m 


g.'FffJsn!'^^'^/?^  Y 


^  '^^'?^>^j;m^^ 


11  '^^fc^'^v^ ,    ' 


GIFT  or 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2008  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://wWw.archive.org/details/armenianlegendspOOboyarich 


^ 


ARMENIAN 
LEGENDS    AND    POEMS 


ARMENIA 


ARMENIAN 
LEGENDS   AND    POEMS 

ILLUSTRATED  &  COMPILED 

by 

ZABELLE    C.    BOYAJIAN 


TiGRANES    THE    GrEAT 

King  op  Armenia 


WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION  BY  THE  RIGHT  HON.  VISCOUNT  BRYCE,  O.M. 

AND 

A  CONTRIBUTION  ON  "ARMENIA:    ITS  EPICS,  FOLK-SONGS, 


AND    MEDIAEVAL    POETRY," 
By  ARAM  RAFFI 


LONDON:    J.    M.    DENT    ^   SONS   LTD. 

NEW   YORK:    E.   P.   DUTTON    ®»   COMPANY 


Miss  Boyajian  is  giving  all  the  profits  of  this  edition  to  the 
Lord  Mayor*:  Armenian  Fund  ?  |a.  ^(^""^ 


^f 


1  ^ 


De&icatei) 

TO 

THE  UNDYING  SPIRIT  OF  ARMENIA 


^^CG20 


PREFACE 

In  preparing  this  book  of  Armenian  Legends  and  Poems  ray  principal  object  was  to  publish 
it  as  a  Memorial  to  an  unhappy  nation. 

The  book  does  not  claim  to  represent  Armenian  poetry  adequately.  Many  gifted  and  well- 
known  authors  have  been  omitted,  partly  from  considerations  of  space,  and  partly  because  of 
the  scope  of  the  work.  For  instance,  I  should  have  liked  to  include  some  of  the  Sharakans 
(rows  of  gems)  of  Nerses  Shnorhah ;  but  the  impossibility  of  reproducing  their  characteristic 
forms  in  another  language,  and  doing  them  any  justice,  made  me  decide  not  to  translate  any 
of  them.  I  have  only  given  a  few  typical  legends  and  poems,  endeavouring,  as  far  as  possible, 
to  convey  the  local  colouring  by  adhering  closely  to  the  form,  rhythm,  and  imagery  of  the 
originals  in  my  translations.  I  have  also  largely  based  the  decorative  scheme  of  the  illus- 
trations upon  Ancient  Armenian  Art  as  we  see  it  in  mediaeval  missals  and  illuminations. 

Should  this  anthology  create  an  interest  in  Armenian  literature  the  Armenian  Muses 
have  still  many  treasures  in  their  keeping  which  cannot  be  destroyed ;  and  another  volume 
could  be  compiled. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  my  sincerest  gratitude  to  Miss  Alice  Stone  Blackwell, 
of  Boston,  U.S.A, — one  of  Armenia's  truest  friends — for  allowing  me  to  reprint  several  of 
her  renderings  of  Armenian  poems ;  to  G.  C.  Macaulay,  M.A,,  and  the  Delegates  of  the 
Oxford  University  Press,  for  permission  to  reprint  the  "  Tale  of  Rosiphelee  "  from  their 
edition  of  Gower's  Confessio  Amantis  ;  to  Mr.  William  Watson  and  Mr.  John  Lane  for  per- 
mission to  reprint  the  sonnet  on  Armenia,  "  A  Trial  of  Orthodoxy,"  from  The  Purple  East ; 
and  to  the  heirs  of  Vittoria  Aganoor  Pompilj  for  permitting  me  to  reprint  two  of  her  poems, 
"  Pasqua  Armena  "  and  "  lo  Vidi,"  from  the  Nuova  Antologia,  I  wish  also  to  thank 
Mr.  M.  E.  Galoustiantz;  for  designing  the  cover  of  this  book. 

The  proceeds  of  the  present  edition  will  be  handed  over  to  the  Armenian  Fund. 

ZABELLE  C.  BOYAJIAN, 


INTRODUCTION 

Severed  for  many  centuries  from  Western  Europe  by  the  flood  of  Turkish  barbarism  which 
descended  upon  their  country  in  the  Middle  Ages,  and  subjected  for  the  last  two  generations 
to  oppressions  and  cruelties  such  as  few  civilised  people  have  ever  had  to  undergo,  the 
Armenians  have  been  less  known  to  Englishmen  and  Frenchmen  than  their  remarkable 
qualities  and  their  romantic  history  deserve.  Few  among  us  have  acquired  their  language, 
one  of  the  most  ancient  forms  of  human  speech  that  possess  a  literature.  Still  fewer  have 
studied  their  art  or  read  their  poetry  even  in  translations.  There  is,  therefore,  an  ample  field 
for  a  book  which  shall  present  to  those  Englishmen  and  Frenchmen,  whose  interest  in  Armenia 
has  been  awakened  by  the  sufferings  to  which  its  love  of  freedom  and  its  loyalty  to  its  Christian 
faith  have  exposed  it,  some  account  of  Armenian  art  and  Armenian  poetical  literature.  Miss 
Boyajian,  the  authoress  of  this  book,  is  the  daughter  of  an  Armenian  clergyman,  whom  I  knew 
and  respected  during  the  many  years  when  he  was  British  Vice-Consul  at  Diarbekir  on  the 
Tigris.  She  is  herself  a  painter,  a  member  of  that  group  of  Armenian  artists  some  of  whom 
have,  like  Aivazovsky  and  Edgar  Chahine,  won  fame  in  the  world  at  large,  and  she  is  well 
qualified  to  describe  with  knowledge  as  well  as  with  sympathy  the  art  of  her  own  people. 

That  art  has  been,  since  the  nation  embraced  Christianity  in  the  fourth  century  of  our  era, 
chiefly  ecclesiastical.  The  finest  examples  of  ancient  Armenian  architecture  are  to  be  seen  in 
the  ruins  of  Ani,  on  the  border  where  Russian  and  Turkish  territory  meet,  a  city  which  was 
once  the  seat  of  one  of  the  native  dynasties,  while  the  famous  church  of  the  monastery  of 
Etchmiadzin,  at  Vagarshabad,  near  Erivan,  is,  though  more  modern,  a  perfect  and  beautiful 
existing  representative  of  the  old  type.  Etchmiaddn,  standing  at  the  north  foot  of  Mount 
Ararat,  is  the  seat  of  the  Katholikos,  or  ecclesiastical  head  of  the  whole  Armenian  church. 
There  was  little  or  no  ecclesiastical  sculpture,  for  the  Armenian  church  discouraged  the  use 
of  images,  and  fresco  painting  was  not  much  used  for  the  decoration  of  churches ;  missals, 
however,  and  other  books  of  devotion  and  manuscripts  of  the  Bible  were  illuminated  with 
hand  paintings,  and  adorned  with  miniatures;  and  much  skill  and  taste  were  shown  in 
embroideries.  Metal  work,  especially  in  silver  and  in  copper,  has  always  been  a  favourite 
vehicle  for  artistic  design  in  the  Near  East  and  is  so  still,  though  like  everything  else  it  has 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

suffered  from  the  destruction,  in  repeated  massacres,  of  many  of  the  most  highly  skilled 
artificers. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  features  in  the  history  of  Armenian  art  is  that  it  displays  in  its 
successive  stages  the  various  influences  to  which  the  country  has  been  subject.  Ever  since  it 
became  Christian  it  was  a  territory  fought  for  by  diverse  empires  of  diverse  creeds.  As  in 
primitive  times  it  lay  between  Assyria  on  the  one  side  and  the  Hittite  power  on  the  other,  so 
after  the  appearance  of  Islam  it  became  the  frontier  on  which  the  East  Roman  Christian 
Empire  contended  with  the  Muslim  Arab  and  Turkish  monarchies.  Persian  influences  on 
the  East,  both  before  and  after  Persia  had  become  Mohammedan,  here  met  with  the  Roman 
influences  spreading  out  from  Constantinople.  The  latter  gave  the  architectural  style,  as  we 
see  it  in  those  ecclesiastical  buildings  to  which  I  have  referred,  a  style  developed  here  with 
admirable  features  of  its  own  and  one  which  has  held  its  ground  to  the  present  day.  The 
influence  of  Persia  on  the  other  hand  was  seen  in  the  designs  used  in  embroidery,  in  carpets, 
and  in  metal  work.  The  new  school  of  painters  has  struck  out  new  lines  for  itself,  but  while 
profiting  by  whatever  it  has  learnt  from  Europe,  it  retains  a  measure  of  distinctive  national 
quality. 

That  quality  is  also  visible  in  Armenian  poetry  of  which  this  volume  gives  some  interesting 
specimens.  The  poetry  of  a  people  which  has  struggled  against  so  many  terrible  misfortunes 
has  naturally  a  melancholy  strain.   But  it  is  also  full  of  an  unextinguishable  patriotism. 

Those  who  have  learnt  from  this  book  what  the  Armenian  race  has  shown  itself  capable  of 
doing  in  the  fields  of  art  and  literature,  and  who  have  learnt  from  history  how  true  it  has  been 
to  its  Christian  faith,  and  how  tenacious  of  its  national  life,  will  hope  that  the  time  has  now 
at  last  come  when  it  will  be  delivered  from  the  load  of  brutal  tyranny  that  has  so  long  cramped 
its  energies,  and  allowed  to  take  its  place  among  the  free  and  progressive  peoples  of  the  world. 
It  is  the  only  one  of  the  native  races  of  Western  Asia  that  is  capable  of  restoring  productive 
industry  and  assured  prosperity  to  these  now  desolated  regions  that  were  the  earliest  homes  of 
civilisation. 

BRYCE. 

3,  Bdckinghah  Gate, 
July  1916. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Preface vii 

Introduction   ..............  ix 

Reproaches     ........  xv 

A  Trial  of  Orthodoxy xvi 

The  Exile's  Song i 

The  Apple  Tree       . 3 

My  Heart  is  turned  into  a  Wailing  Child     .........  4 

0  Night,  be  long      .............  5 

Black  Eyes      ..............  6 

Yesternight  I  walked  Abroad     ...........  7 

Vahagn,  King  of  Armenia          ...........  lo 

Huntsman,  that  on  the  Hills  above     .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .11 

Liberty  ...............  12 

1  beheld  my  Love  this  Morning          ..........  14 

The  Fox,  the  Wolf,  and  the  Bear        . 15 

Incense  ................  17 

The  Little  Lake 18 

Spring 20 

Cradle  Song    ..............  21 

Ara  and  Semiramis  .............  23 

Lament  over  the  Heroes  fallen  in  the  Battle  of  Avarair 25 

The  Song  of  the  Stork      ............  27 

Ye  Mountain  Bluebells     ............  29 

The  Sun  went  down         ............  30 

Birthday  Song          .............  31 

Morning          ..............  32 

The  Founding  of  Van       ............  33 

I  have  a  Word  I  fain  would  say .         ..........  35 

The  Song  of  the  Partridge         ...........  36 

The  Lily  of  Shavarshan    ............  37 

Cradle  Song    ..............  41 

The  Wind  is  howling  through  the  Winter  Night 42 

The  Armenian  Poet's  Prayer      ...........  43 

The  Chragan  Palace          ............  44 

The  Dream     ..............  46 

The  Sorrows  of  Armenia  ............  47 

Artashes  and  Satenik         ............  48 

My  Death       ..............  50 

The  Eagle's  Love     .............  51 

Concerning  the  Rose  and  the  Nightingale 52 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


PAGE 

The  Arrival  of  the  Crusaders 58 

Like  an  Ocean  is  this  World      ...........  59 

The  Rock        . 60 

The  Crane 62 

The  Hawk  and  the  Dove 63 

Artavasd 65 

Charm  Verses 67 

The  Tears  of  Araxes 69 

The  Eve  of  Ascension  Day        . 73 

"  Thy  Voice  is  Sweet  "...... 74 

-  Christ  and  Abgarus           ............  75 

Araxes  came  devouringly  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         •    ,     •  77 

The  Parrot's  Song 78 

Earth  and  Sky          .............  79 

O'er  the  Mountains  High  he  went      ..........  81 

Complaints 82 

A  Day  After 84 

Without  Thee  what  are  Song  and  Dance  to  Me  ^          .......  85 

The  Lake  of  Van 86 

Spring 89 

The  Fox          ..............  90 

The  Tale  of  Rosiphelee     . 91 

The  Song  of  the  Vulture 98 

Dance  Song loi 

Ballad     ...............  103 

No  Bird  can  reach  the  Mountain's  Crest     .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .106 

The  Nightingale  of  Avarair 108 

Thou  art  so  Sweet no 

The  Wandering  Armenian  to  the  Swallow  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .111 

The  Christ-Child 113 

The  Castle  of  Anoush 114 

Happiness       ..............  118 

Concerning  Death    .         .         . .119 

Love  One  Another .121 

Pasqua  Armena 122 

"  lo  Vidi  " 123 

Armenia :  its  Epics,  Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry         ......  125 

Chronological  Lidex  to  Authors         ..........  193 

Index  to  First  Lines         . 195 


LIST   OF    ILLUSTRATIONS 


Armenia  ...... 

The  Birth  of  Vahagn,  King  of  Armenia 
Ara  and  Semiramis    .... 

The  Founding  of  Van 
Artashes  and  Satenik 

The  Wedding 

Artavasd  ...... 


Frontispiece 
.  facing  page    lo 
23 
33 


Christ's  Letter  to  Abgarus  .... 
The  Lake  of  Van       ..... 
The  Vision  of  Rosiphelee,  Princess  of  Armenia 
The  Lady  and  the  Minstrel 
The  Castle  of  Anoush         .... 


75 
86 
91 
102 
114 


REPROACHES 

By  "  FRIK  " 
(Died  1330) 

0  God  of  righteousness  and  truth, 
Loving  to  all,  and  full  of  ruth  ; 

1  have  some  matter  for  Thine  ear 
If  Thou  wilt  but  Thy  servant  hear. 

Lo,  how  the  world  afHicteth  us 
With  wrongs  and  torments  rancorous  ; 
And  Thou  dost  pardon  every  one. 
But  tumest  from  our  woes  alone. 

Lord,  Thou  wilt  not  avenge  our  wrong 
Nor  chase  the  ills  that  round  us  throng  ; 
Thou  knowest,  we  are  flesh  and  bone, 
We  are  not  statues  made  from  stone  ! 

We  are  not  made  of  grass  or  reeds. 
That  Thou  consumest  us  hke  weeds  ; — 
As  though  we  were  some  thorny  field 
Or  brushwood,  that  the  forests  yield. 

If  that  ourselves  are  nothing  worth — 
If  we  have  wrought  no  good  on  earth. 
If  we  are  hateful  in  Thy  sight 
That  Thou  shouldst  leave  us  in  this  plight- 
Then  blot  us  out ; — be  swift  and  brief, 
That  Thy  pure  heart  may  find  relief ; 
This  well  may  be,  by  Thy  intent. 
Great  Lord  and  good,  omnipotent. 

How  long  must  we  in  patience  wait 
And  bear  unmurmuringly  our  fate  ?* 
Let  evil  ones  be  swept  away 
And  those  whom  Thou  dost  favour,  stay  I 


A  TRIAL  OF  ORTHODOXY 

(Sonnet  on  Armenia) 
By  WILLIAM  WATSON 

The  clinging  children  at  their  mother's  knee 
Slain  ;  and  the  sire  and  kindred  one  by  one 
Flayed  or  hewn  piecemeal ;  and  things  nameless  done, 

Not  to  be  told  :  while  imperturbably 

The  nations  gaze,  where  Rhine  unto  the  sea. 

Where  Seine  and  Danube,  Thames  and  Tiber  run. 
And  where  great  armies  ghtter  in  the  sun. 

And  great  Kings  rule,  and  man  is  boasted  free  ! 
What  wonder  if  yon  torn  and  naked  throng 

Should  doubt  a  Heaven  that  seems  to  wink  and  nod, 
And  having  mourned  at  noontide,  "  Lord,  how  long  '■  " 
Should  cry,  "  Where  hidest  Thou  ^  "  at  evenfall. 

At  midnight,  "  Is  He  deaf  and  blind,  our  God  t  " 
And  ere  day  dawn,  "  Is  He  indeed  at  all 't  " 


ARMENIAN 
LEGENDS  AND   POEMS 

THE    EXILE'S    SONG 

FOLK  SONG 

Beloved  one,  for  thy  sweet  sake. 

By  whirlwinds  tossed  and  swayed  I  roam; 

The  stranger's  accents  round  me  wake 

These  burning  thoughts  that  wander  home. 

No  man  such  longings  wild  can  bear 

As  in  my  heart  forever  rise. 

Oh  that  the  wind  might  waft  me  there 

Where  my  belovM's  vineyard  lies ! 

Oh  that  I  were  the  zephyr  fleet, 

That  bends  her  vines  and  roses  sweet. 

For  I  am  piteous  and  forlorn. 
As  is  the  bird  that  haunts  the  night ; 
Who  inconsolably  doth  mourn 
Whene'er  his  rose  is  from  his  sight. 
O'er  earth  and  ocean,  everywhere 
I  gaze  in  vain,  with  weary  eyes. 
Oh  that  the  wind  might  waft  me  there 
Where  my  beloved's  vineyard  lies ! 
Oh  that  I  were  the  zephyr  fleet 
That  bends  her  vines  and  roses  sweet. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

I  would  I  were  yon  cloud  so  light, — 
Yon  cloudlet  driven  before  the  wind. 
Or  yonder  bird  with  swift-winged  flight : 
My  heart's  true  way  I  soon  would  find! 
Oh,  I  would  be  the  wind  so  fleet 
That  bends  her  vines  and  roses  sweet. 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 


THE    APPLE    TREE 


FOLK  SONG 

The  door  of  Heaven  open  seemed 
And  in  thy  house  the  sunlight  gleamed. 

As  through  the  garden's  willow'd  walks  I  hied 

Full  many  a  tree  and  blossom  I  espied. 

But  of  all  trees,  the  Apple  Tree  most  fair 

And  beautiful  did  unto  me  appear. 

It  sobbed  and  wept.    Its  leaves  said  murmuringly : 

"  I  would  that  God  had  ne'er  created  me ! 

The  badge  of  sin  and  wickedness  I  am 

E'en  at  thy  feast,  O  Father  Abraham.' 

The  apple  growing  on  me  first 

From  Eden  came  ere  it  was  ciu^ed, 

Alas,  alas,  I  am  undone ! 

Why  fell  I  to  that  evil  one  <  " 

1  The  "  feast  of  Father  Abraham  "  means  plenty. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


MY  HEART 
IS  TURNED  INTO  A  WAILING  CHILD 

By  N.  KOUCHAK 
(Fifteenth  Century) 

My  heart  is  turned  into  a  wailing  child. 

In  vain  with  sweets  I  seek  to  still  its  cries ; 

Sweet  love,  it  calls  for  thee  in  sobbings  wild 

All  day  and  night,  with  longing  and  with  sighs. 
^XTiat  solace  can  I  give  its' 

I  showed  my  eyes  the  fair  ones  of  this  earth 

And  tried  to  please  them — but  I  tried  in  vain. 

Sweet  love,  for  them  all  those  were  nothing  worth— 
Thee — only  thee  my  heart  would  have  again. 
What  solace  can  I  give  its' 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 


O    NIGHT,    BE    LONG 

By  N.  KOUCHAK 

O  Night,  be  long — ^long  as  an  endless  year ! 

Descend,  thick  darkness,  black  and  full  of  fear ! 
To-night  my  heart's  desire  has  been  fulfilled — 
My  love  is  here  at  last — a  guest  concealed ! 

Dawn,  stand  behind  seven  mountains — out  of  sight. 
Lest  thou  my  loved  one  banish  with  thy  light; 
I  would  for  ever  thus  in  darkness  rest 
So  I  might  ever  clasp  him  to  my  breast. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


BLACK    EYES 

By  AVETIS  ISAHAKIAN 
{Born  1875) 

Do  not  trust  black  eyes,  but  fear  them : — 
Gloom  they  are,  and  endless  night ; 

Woes  and  perils  lurking  near  them — 

Love  not  thou  their  gleaming  bright ! 

In  my  heart  a  sea  of  blood  wells. 
Called  up  by  their  cruel  might. 

No  calm  ever  in  that  flood  dwells — 

Love  not  thou  their  gleaming  bright ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

YESTERNIGHT    I    WALKED   ABROAD 

ANONYMOUS 

Yesternight  I  walked  abroad. 
From  the  clouds  sweet  dews  were  falling, 

And  my  love  stood  in  the  road, 
All  in  green,  and  to  me  calling. 

To  her  home  she  led  me  straight. 
Shut  and  barred  the  gate  securely; 

Whoso  tries  to  force  that  gate 
Brave  I'll  reckon  him  most  surely ! 

In  the  garden  she  did  go. 
Gathered  roses  dewed  with  showers; 

Some  she  gave  her  lover,  so 
He  might  lay  his  face  in  flowers. 

Garments  loose  and  snowy  breast, 
I  slipped  in  her  bosom  tender 

And  I  found  a  moment's  rest, 
Clasped  within  those  arms  so  slender. 

Then  I  raised  my  hands  above — 
Grant,  O  Lord,  that  I  wake  never; 

On  the  bosom  of  my  love 
May  I  live  and  die  forever ! 

What  have  I  from  this  world  gained^ 
What  advantage  gathered  ever  5" 

For  the  hunt  my  falcon  trained 
I  let  fly— it  went  forever ! 
7 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Ah,  my  falcon,  woe  the  day ! 
Tell  me,  whither  art  thou  flying!* 

I  will  follow  all  the  way — 
Since  thou  wentest  I  am  dying. 


I  am  ill,  and  near  my  end — 
With  an  apple '  hasten  to  me, 

I  shall  curse  thee  if  thou  send 
Strange  physicians  to  undo  me. 

No  physicians  strange  for  me — 
All  my  griefs  in  thee  I  centre. 

Come  and  take  my  bosom's  key, 
Open  wide  the  door  and  enter. 

Once  again  I  say,  'twas  not 
I  that  came — 'twas  thy  love  brought  me. 

In  my  heart  thy  love  hath  got 
And  its  dwelling-place  hath  wrought  me. 

When  the  falcon  hunger  feels 
Then  he  finds  the  game  and  takes  it ; 

When  love  thirsts,  the  lover  steals 
Kisses  from  his  love  and  slakes  it. 

But  thou  hold'st  me  with  thy  charms; 
When  I  kiss  thee  thou  dost  bind  me ; 

'Twas  but  now  I  left  thine  arms, 
And  my  looks  are  turned  behind  me. 

I  am  ever,  for  thy  love. 
Like  the  sands  in  summer,  burning : 

Looking  up  to  heaven  above, 
For  one  little  raindrop  yearning, 

1  An  apple  is  the  symbol  of  love. 


Armenian  Legends  and   Poems 

I  would  kiss  thy  forehead  chaste. 
And  thine  eyes  so  brightly  gleaming; 

Fold  mine  arms  about  thy  waist — 
Thick  with  all  thy  garments  seeming. 

Oft  and  often  have  I  said 
For  my  love  make  garments  shining: 

Of  the  sun  the  facing  red, — 
Of  the  moon  cut  out  the  lining ; 

Pad  it  with  yon  storm-cloud  dark. 
Sewn  with  sea  weed  from  the  islets : 

Stars  for  clasps  must  bring  their  spark- 
Stitch  me  inside  for  the  eyelets  ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


VAHAGN,    KING   OF   ARMENIA 

From  the  History  of  Armenia, 

by 

MOSES  OF  KHORENE 

{Fifth  Century) 

Concerning  the  birth  of  this  king  the  legends  say — 

"  Heaven  and  earth  were  in  travail, 
And  the  crimson  waters  were  in  travail. 
And  in  the  water,  the  crimson  reed 
Was  also  in  travail. 

From  the  mouth  of  the  reed  issued  smoke, 
From  the  mouth  of  the  reed  issued  flame. 
And  out  of  the  flame  sprang  the  young  child. 
His  hair  was  of  fire,  a  beard  had  he  of  flame. 
And  his  eyes  were  suns." 

With  our  own  ears  did  we  hear  these  words  sung  to  the  accompaniment  of  the  harp. 
They  sing,  moreover,  that  he  did  fight  with  the  dragons,  and  overcame  them ;  and  some 
say  that  his  valiant  deeds  were  like  unto  those  of  Hercules.  Others  declare  that  he  was  a  god, 
and  that  a  great  image  of  him  stood  in  the  land  of  Georgia,  where  it  was  worshipped  with 
sacrifices. 


ntV^ffl^ 


X^'li:^ 


.^.  ,;i 


^  toll»|iA  4»,  f-3  fc|«H,.  |^..'|.  f-,-,^  «j-.«-fc.l^^^  ^«-y..^ 


The  Birth  of  Vahagn,  King  of  Armenia 

"  Heaven  and  earth  were  in  travail. 
And  the  crimson  waters  were  in  travail. 
And  in  the  water,  the  crimson  reed 
Was  also  in  travail. 

From  the  mouth  of  the  reed  issued  smoke, 
From  the  mouth  of  the  reed  issued  flame. 
And  out  of  the  flame  sprang  the  yotmg  child. 
His  hair  was  of  fire,  a  beard  had  he  of  flame. 
And  his  eyes  were  suns." 

Moses  of  Kkorem, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

HUNTSMAN, 
THAT   ON   THE    HILLS   ABOVE 

By  AVETIS  ISAHAKIAN 

"  Huntsman,  that  on  the  hills  above 

To  hunt  the  deer  hast  been, 
Tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  if  my  love — 

My  wild  deer  thou  hast  seen  5* 

"  He  sought  the  hills  his  grief  to  quell — 

My  darling  love,  my  sun. 
He  wandered  out  upon  the  fell. 

My  flower,  my  only  one." 

"  Maiden,  I  saw  your  lover  true. 

All  girt  with  red  and  green. 
Upon  his  breast  a  rose  tree  grew 

Where  once  your  kiss  had  been." 

"  Huntsman,  I  pray,  who  is  the  bride 

Of  my  beloved,  my  sun?" 
Who  tends  him,  watching  by  his  side. 

My  flower,  my  only  one  i  " 

"  Maiden,  I  saw  him  with  his  head 

Upon  a  stone  at  rest. 
And  for  his  love,  a  bullet  red 

Into  his  heart  was  pressed. 

"  The  mountain  breeze  caressingly 

Played  with  his  jet-black  hair. 
And  blossoms  wept  unceasingly 

Your  flower,  your  lover  there." 


Armenian   Legends  and   Poems 


I    BEHELD    MY   LOVE 
THIS    MORNING 

By  SAYAT  nova 

(1712-1795) 

I  BEHELD  my  love  this  morning,  in  the  garden  paths  she  strayed. 
All  brocaded  was  the  ground  with  prints  her  golden  pattens  made ; 
Like  the  nightingale,  I  warbled  round  my  rose  with  wings  displayed. 
And  I  wept,  my  reason  faltered,  while  my  heart  was  sore  dismayed. 
Grant,  O  Lord,  that  all  my  foemen  to  such  grief  may  be  betrayed ! 

Love,  with  these  thy  whims  and  humoiirs  thou  hast  wrecked  and  ruined  me. 
Thou  hast  drunk  of  love's  own  nectar,  thy  lips  speak  entrancingly. 
With  those  honeyed  words  how  many  like  me  thou  hast  bound  to  thee ! 
Take  the  knife  and  slay  me  straightway — pass  not  by  me  mockingly. 
Since  I  die  of  love,  'twere  better  Beauty  stabbed  and  set  me  free. 

For  I  have  no  love  beside  thee — I  would  have  thee  know  it  well. 
Thou  for  whom  e'en  death  I'd  suffer,  list  to  what  I  have  to  tell. 
See  thou  thwart  not  thy  Creator, — all  the  past  do  not  dispel : 
Anger  not  thy  Sayat  Nova,  for  when  in  thy  snare  he  fell 
He  was  all  bereft  of  reason  by  thy  whims'  and  humours'  spell. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    FOX,   THE   WOLF, 
AND   THE    BEAR 

FOLK  SONG 

The  little  fox,  the  wolf  and  bear  made  peace; 
Like  kinsfolk  all,  they  bade  their  warfare  cease. 
The  fox  they  consecrate  a  hermit  now;— 
False  monk,  false  hermit,  false  recluse's  vow ! 

The  little  fox  a  sack  found  in  the  street 

Through  which  he  thrust  his  head ;    then  shod  his  feet 

With  iron  shoes,  and  got  a  staff,  I  trow — 

False  monk,  false  hermit,  false  recluse's  vow ! 

The  fox  has  sent  the  wolf  to  fetch  the  bear. 
"  For  him,"  he  said,  "  I  live  this  life  of  care ; 
Yet  never  hath  he  sent  me  aught  to  eat : — 
Sore  are  my  knees  with  walking,  sore  my  feet !  " 

At  morning  dawn  forth  to  the  hunt  they  creep ; 
A  ram  they  catch,  a  lambkin  and  a  sheep. 
Holy  dispenser  is  the  wolf  proclaimed — 
Unjust  dispenser,  judge  unwisely  named ! 

He  gives  the  sheep  as  portion  to  the  bear; 

The  lambkin  falls  to  the  poor  hermit's  share. 

"  The  ram  for  me,"  he  said,  "  I'm  tired  and  lamed  " — 

Unjust  dispenser,  judge  unwisely  named ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

The  bear  was  wroth^  and  turned  him  round  about. 
And  with  one  blow  the  wolfs  two  eyes  put  out. 
"  That  sheep  for  me,  a  bear  so  great  and  famed  i 
Unjust  dispenser,  judge  unwisely  named  !  " 

The  little  fox  is  sore  afraid,  and  sees 
A  trap  laid  ready  with  a  piece  of  cheese. 
"  O  uncle,  see,  I've  built  a  convent  here," 
He  said,  "  a  place  of  rest,  a  place  of  prayer ! " 

The  bear  stretched  out  his  paw  for  the  repast. 
The  trap  upon  his  neck  closed  hard  and  fast. 
"  Help  me,  my  little  nephew,  for  I  fear 
This  is  no  convent,  'tis  no  house  of  prayer !  " 

The  little  fox  with  joy  beheld  the  whole 

And  sang  a  mass  for  his  great  uncle's  soul. 

"  The  wrong  thou  didst  the  wolf  has  brought  thee  there ; 

It  is  a  house  of  rest,  a  house  of  prayer ! " 

O  sovereign  Justice,  much  thou  pleasest  me — 
Who  wrongs  another  soon  shall  cease  to  be. 
And  fasting  in  the  trap  must  lie  the  bear, — 
For  'tis  a  house  of  rest,  a  house  of  prayer  1 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


INCENSE 

By  ZABELLE  ESSAYAN 
[Born  1878) 

The  incense  at  the  altar  slowly  burns 

Swayed  in  the  silver  censer  to  and  fro; 

Around  the  crucifix  it  coils  and  turns. 

The  brows  of  saints  it  wreathes  with  misty  glow. 

And  tremulous  petitions,  long  drawn  out. 
Beneath  the  lofty  arches  faint  away ; 
To  weary  eyes  the  candles  round  about 
Heave  as  they  flicker  with  their  pallid  ray. 

The  sacred  columns,  grey  and  mouldering. 
Support  a  veil  that  stirs  with  voiceless  sobs. 
Beneath  it,  like  the  incense  smouldering, 
A  woman's  darkened  heart  in  anguish  throbs. 

Consumed  within  the  censer  now,  and  burned, 
The  incense  through  the  boundless  ether  soars. 
What  Matter  was  to  Fragrance  sweet  is  turned — 
The  cleansing  fire  its  purity  restores. 

Nor  shall  that  woman's  smouldering  heart  be  freed,- 
Saved  from  its  cold  and  adamantine  shell, — 
Till  it  is  melted,  tried,  and  cleansed  indeed. 
Till  the  pure  flames  shall  all  its  dross  expel! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    LITTLE    LAKE^ 

By  BEDROS  TOURIAN 
(1852-1872) 

Why  dost  thou  lie  in  hushed  surprise, 

Thou  little  lonely  mere  S* 
Did  some  fair  woman  wistfully 

Gaze  in  thy  mirror  clear? 

Or  are  thy  waters  calm  and  still 

Admiring  the  blue  sky, 
Where  shining  cloudlets,  like  thy  foam. 

Are  drifting  softly  byS* 

Sad  little  lake,  let  us  be  friends ! 

I  too  am  desolate ; 
I  too  would  fain,  beneath  the  sky. 

In  silence  meditate. 

As  many  thoughts  are  in  my  mind 

As  wavelets  o'er  thee  roam ; 
As  many  wounds  are  in  my  heart 

As  thou  hast  flakes  of  foam. 

But  if  heaven's  constellations  all 

Should  drop  into  thy  breast. 
Thou  still  wouldst  not  be  like  my  soul, — 

A  flame-sea  without  rest. 

There,  when  the  air  and  thou  are  calm. 

The  clouds  let  fall  no  showers ; 
The  stars  that  rise  there  do  not  set. 

And  fadeless  are  the  flowers. 

'  This  and  the  other  translations  by  Miss  Alice  Stone  Blackwell  are  reprinted  from  Armenian  Poems,  by  the  t 
lator's  kind  permission. 

18 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 

Thou  art  my  queen,  O  little  lake  ! 

For  e'en  when  ripples  thrill 
Thy  surface,  in  thy  quivering  depths 

Thou  hold'st  me,  trembling,  still. 

Full  many  have  rejected  me : 

"  What  has  he  but  his  lyre  5"  " 
"  He  trembles,  and  his  face  is  pale ; 

His  life  must  soon  expire  !  " 

None  said,  "  Poor  child,  why  pines  he  thus  S* 

If  he  beloved  should  be. 
Haply  he  might  not  die,  but  live, — 

Live,  and  grow  fair  to  see." 

None  sought  the  boy's  sad  heart  to  read. 

Nor  in  its  depths  to  look. 
They  would  have  found  it  was  a  fire. 

And  not  a  printed  book ! 

Nay,  ashes  now  !   a  memory  ! 

Grow  stormy,  little  mere, 
For  a  despairing  man  has  gazed 

Into  thy  waters  clear ! 

Translated  by  Alice  Stone  Blackwell. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


SPRING 

By  HOVHANNES  HOVHANNESSIAN 
{Born  1869) 

None  await  thy  smiling  rays; 
Whither  comest  thou,  O  Springs' 
None  are  left  to  sing  thy  praise — 
Vain  thy  coming  now,  O  Spring  I 

All  the  world  is  wrapped  in  gloom. 
Earth  in  blood  is  weltering : 
This  year  brought  us  blackest  doom — 
Whither  comest  thou,  O  Springs' 

No  rose  for  the  nightingale. 
No  flower  within  park  or  dale, 
Every  face  with  anguish  pale — 
Whither  comest  thou,  O  Springs' 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


CRADLE    SONG 

By  RAPHAEL  PATKANIAN 
(1830-1892) 

Mother 

Sweet  slumber  now  creeps  o'er  thee  slow. 
Sweet  breezes  rock  thee  to  and  fro  : 
My  baby  sleeps,  so  soft  and  low 
With  sweetest  songs  I'll  sing  oror,^ 

Baby 

O  Mother  dear,  thou  art  unkind 
My  sleepless  eyes  so  long  to  bind/ 
Anon  I'll  rest,  and  sleep  resigned ; — 
Release  me  now,  sing  not  oror. 

Mother 

Why  dost  thou  shed  those  tears  that  flow 
Down  thy  sad  cheeks  with  pearly  glow?" 
Thou'lt  break  thy  heart  with  sobbing  so, — 
Whom  wilt  thou  have  to  sing  orort 

Baby 

At  least  my  hands  and  feet  unbind — 

My  tender  limbs  are  all  confined; 

That  gentle  sleep  my  eyes  may  find. 

Then  tie  me  in,  and  sing  oror. 
'  Oror — lullaby. 
2  Armenian  babies  have  their  eyes  bandaged  when  they  are  put  to  sleep,  and  they  are  tied  into  their  cradles. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Mother 

That  tongue  of  thine  is  passing  sweet, 
Yet  with  thy  yards  I  cannot  mete. 
Thou  wilt  not  sleep,  but  at  thy  feet 
Wouldst  have  me  sit,  and  sing  oror. 

Baby 

All  piteously  I  raise  my  prayer, 

I  sob  and  cry,  thou  dost  not  hear. 

Thy  sweet  voice  seems  to  charm  thine  ear— 

I  weep,  thou  singest  still  oror. 

Mother 

Hush,  hush,  and  sleep,  my  baby  dear. 
My  love  shall  guard  thee,  year  by  year. 
Until  my  rose-tree  blossoms  fair. 
Then  'neath  his  shade  I'll  sing  oror. 

Baby 

Thy  heart  is  made  of  stone,  I  see. 
I  wept  and  wept,  all  uselessly. 
Now  I  shall  sleep,  I  can't  be  free. 
All  night,  all  night  sing  me  oror! 


Aka  and  Seuirahis 

"  She  thought  to  bring  Ara  back  to  Itfe  by 
witchcraft  and  charms,  for  she  was  maddened  by 
the  intensity  of  her  desires." 

Moses  of  Khorene. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

ARA   AND   SEMIRAMIS 

From  the  History  of  Armenia, 

by 

MOSES  OF  KHORENE 

For  a  few  years  before  the  death  of  Ninus,  Ara  reigned  over  Armenia  under  his  Protectorate, 
and  found  the  same  favour  in  his  eyes  as  his  father  Aram  had  done.  But  that  wanton 
and  lustful  woman  Semiramis,  having  heard  speak  for  many  years  of  the  beauty  of  Ara, 
wished  to  possess  him ;  only  she  ventured  not  to  do  anything  openly.  But  after  the  death 
or  the  escape  to  Crete  of  Ninus,  as  it  hath  been  affirmed  unto  me,  she  discovered  her  passion 
freely,  and  sent  messengers  to  Ara  the  Beautiful  with  gifts  and  offerings,  with  many  prayers 
and  promises  of  riches ;  begging  him  to  come  to  her  to  Nineveh  and  either  wed  her  and 
reign  over  all  that  Ninus  had  possessed,  or  fulfil  her  desires  and  return  in  peace  to  Armenia, 
with  many  gifts. 

And  when  the  messengers  had  been  and  returned  many  times  and  Ara  had  not  con- 
sented, Semiramis  became  very  wroth ;  and  she  arose  and  took  all  the  multitude  of  her 
hosts  and  hastened  to  the  land  of  Armenia,  against  Ara.  But,  as  she  had  beforehand  declared, 
it  was  not  so  much  to  kill  him  and  persecute  him  that  she  went,  as  to  subdue  him  and  bring 
him  by  force  to  fulfil  the  desires  of  her  passion.  For  having  been  consumed  with  desire  by 
what  she  had  heard  of  him,  on  seeing  him  she  became  as  one  beside  herself.  She  arrived 
in  this  turmoil  at  the  plains  of  Ara,  called  after  him  Airarat.  And  when  the  battle  was  about 
to  take  place  she  commanded  her  generals  to  devise  some  means  of  saving  the  life  of  Ara. 
But  in  the  fighting  the  army  of  Ara  was  beaten,  and  Ara  died,  being  slain  by  the  warriors 
of  Semiramis.  And  after  the  battle  the  Queen  sent  out  to  the  battlefield  to  search  for  the 
body  of  her  beloved  amongst  those  who  had  died.  And  they  found  the  body  of  Ara  amongst 
the  brave  ones  that  had  fallen,  and  she  commanded  them  to  place  it  in  an  upper  chamber  in 
her  castle. 

But  when  the  hosts  of  Armenia  arose  once  more  against  Queen  Semiramis  to  avenge  the 
death  of  Ara,  she  said  :  "  I  have  commanded  the  gods  to  lick  his  wounds,  and  he  shall  live 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

again/'  At  the  same  time  she  thought  to  bring  Ara  back  to  life  by  witchcraft  and  charms,  for 
she  was  maddened  by  the  intensity  of  her  desires.  But  when  the  body  began  to  decay,  she 
commanded  them  to  cast  it  into  a  deep  pit,  and  to  cover  it.  And  having  dressed  up  one  of 
her  men  in  secret,  she  sent  forth  the  fame  of  him  thus  :  "  The  gods  have  licked  Ara  and 
have  brought  him  back  to  life  again,  thus  fulfilling  our  prayers  and  our  pleasure.  Therefore 
from  this  time  forth  shall  they  be  the  more  glorified  and  worshipped  by  us,  for  that  they 
are  the  givers  of  joy  and  the  fulfiUers  of  desire."  She  also  erected  a  new  statue  in  honour  of 
the  gods  and  worshipped  it  with  many  sacrifices,  showing  unto  all  as  if  the  gods  had  brought 
Ara  back  to  life  again.  And  having  caused  this  report  to  be  spread  over  all  the  land  of 
Armenia  and  satisfied  the  people  she  put  an  end  to  the  fighting.  And  she  took  the  son  of  Ara 
whom  his  beloved  wife  Nouvart  had  borne  unto  him  and  who  was  but  twelve  years  old  at 
the  time  of  his  father's  death.  And  she  called  his  name  Ara  in  memory  of  her  love  for  Ara 
the  Beautiful,  and  appointed  him  ruler  over  the  land  of  Armenia,  trusting  him  in  all  things. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

LAMENT  OVER  THE   HEROES 
FALLEN    IN    THE    BATTLE   OF   AVARAIR 

By  KAREKIN  SRVANSTIAN 
(1840-1892) 

If  Goghtan's  bards  no  longer  crown 

Armenia's  heroes  with  their  lays. 
Let  deathless  souls  from  Heaven  come  down, 

Oiir  valiant  ones  to  praise! 

Ye  shining  angel  hosts,  descend : 

On  Ararat's  white  summit  pause; 
Let  God  Himself  the  heavens  rend, 

To  come  and  judge  our  cause. 

Fly,  clouds,  from  Shavarshan  away. 
Pour  not  on  it  your  gentle  rain : — 

'Tis  drenched  with  streams  of  blood  to-day 
Shed  by  our  brave  ones  slain. 

Henceforth  the  rose  and  asphodel 

No  more  shall  on  our  plains  appear ; 

But  in  the  land  where  Vartan  fell 
Shall  Faith  her  blossoms  rear. 

Fit  monument  to  Vartan's  name, 

Mount  Ararat  soars  to  the  sky. 
And  Cross-crowned  convents  tell  his  fame. 

And  churches  vast  and  high. 
as 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Thy  record  too  shall  ever  stand, 
O  Eghishe,  for  where  they  fell. 

Thou  forthwith  earnest,  pen  in  hand. 
Their  faith  and  death  to  tell. 

Bright  sun,  pierce  with  thy  rays  the  gloom. 
Where  Khaghdik's  crags  thy  light  repel. 

There  hes  oiur  brave  Hmayag's  tomb, — 
There,  where  he  martyred  fell. 

And,  moon,  thy  sleepless  vigil  keep 

O'er  our  Armenian  martyrs'  bones ; 

With  the  soft  dews  of  Maytime  steep 
Their  nameless  funeral  stones. 

Armenia's  Stork,  our  summer  guest, 
And  all  ye  hawks  and  eagles,  come. 

Watch  o'er  this  land — 'tis  our  bequest — 
We  leave  to  you  our  home. 

About  the  ashes  hover  still. 

Your  nests  among  the  ruins  make; 
And,  swallows,  come  and  go  until 

Spring  for  Armenia  break  ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    SONG   OF   THE    STORK 

FOLK  SONG 

Stork^  I  welcome  thy  return. 
Thou  stork,  I  welcome  thy  return. 
Thy  coming  is  the  sign  of  spring, 
And  thou  dost  joy  and  gladness  bring. 

Stork,  upon  our  roof  descend. 
Thou  stork,  upon  our  roof  descend. 
Upon  our  ash-tree  build  thy  nest, 
Our  dear  one,  and  our  honoured  guest. 

Stork,  I  would  complain  to  thee  : — 
Yes,  stork,  I  would  complain  to  thee. 
A  thousand  sorrows  I  would  tell, 
The  griefs  that  in  my  bosom  dwell. 

Stork,  when  thou  our  house  didst  leave, — 
When  last  our  ash-tree  thou  didst  leave. 
Cold,  blasting  winds  the  heavens  filled. 
And  all  our  smiling  flowers  were  killed. 

Clouds  obscured  the  brilliant  skyj 
Dark  clouds  obscured  the  brilliant  sky. 
Up  there  in  flakes  they  broke  the  snow, 
And  Winter  killed  the  flowers  below. 

37 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

From  the  mountain  of  Varag, 
From  that  great  hill  they  call  Varag, 
The  snow  did  all  the  earth  enfold : — 
In  our  green  meadow  it  was  cold. 


In  our  garden  all  was  white. 
Our  little  garden  all  was  white. 
CXir  tender  rose-trees,  fresh  and  green. 
All  died  of  Winter's  frost-bite  keen. 


38 


Armenian  Legends  and   Poems 


YE    MOUNTAIN    BLUEBELLS 

By  AVETIS  ISAHAKIAN 

Ye  mountain  bluebells,  weep  with  me. 
And  flowers  in  coloured  crowds ; 

Weep,  nightingale,  on  yonder  tree, — 

Cool  winds  dropped  from  the  clouds. 

All  dark  around  the  earth  and  sky. 

All  lonely  here  I  mourn. 
My  love  is  gone, — light  of  my  eye; 

I  sob  and  weep  forlorn. 

Alas,  no  more  he  cares  for  me — 

He  left  me  unconsoled; 
He  pierced  my  heart,  then  cruelly 

Left  me  in  pain  untold. 

Ye  mountain  bluebells,  weep  with  me. 
And  flowers  in  coloured  crowds ; 

Weep,  nightingale,  on  yonder  tree, — 

Cool  winds  dropped  from  the  clouds. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE   SUN    WENT   DOWN 

By  AVETIS  ISAHAKIAN 

The  sun  went  down  behind  the  hill^ 

No  light  was  on  the  lea, 
The  fowls  and  birds  slept  calm  and  still. 

But  sleep  came  not  to  me. 

The  moon  peeped  in  beneath  the  eaves, 

The  Balance  rose  on  high, 
The  fresh  night-wind  that  stirred  the  leaves 

Spoke  to  the  starry  sky. 

Ah,  gentle  winds  and  stars  of  light. 

Where  is  my  love  to-night?" 
Ye  painted  eyes  of  heaven  so  bright, — 

Saw  you  my  love  to-night  S" 

Day  dawned, — ^unbolted  was  our  door  : — 
The  snowflakes  whirled  like  foam, 

*Tis  cloud  and  storm,  the  wild  winds  roar — 
Why  comes  my  love  not  homes' 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


BIRTHDAY    SONG 

By  NAHABED  KOUCHAK 

On  the  morning  of  thy  birth 

We  were  glad  but  thou  wert  wailing, 
See  that  when  thou  leav'st  the  earth 

Thou  art  glad  and  we  bewailing. 

Let  me  speak  unto  thy  heart, — 

List  if  thou  hast  understanding ; 

Keep  thyself  from  fools  apart. 

All  their  flatteries  withstanding. 

For  the  fool,  like  fire  and  heat, 

Scorcheth  everything,  and  bumeth ; 

But  the  wise,  like  water  sweet. 
Deserts  into  gardens  turneth. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


MORNING 

By  HAROUTUNE  TOUMANIAN 

Day  dawned.    Bright  tongues  of  scarlet  flame 

Shot  up  into  the  sky, 
The  livid  heav'ns  blushed,  and  became 

A  sea  of  crimson  dye. 

The  sun  his  fiery  beams  unrolled 
Like  strands  of  coloured  thread ; 

Embroidered  all  the  clouds  with  gold. 
And  blue,  and  green,  and  red. 

Then  o'er  the  mountain,  full  in  view. 

Nature's  great  Monarch  rose  : 
And  from  his  tent  of  Royal  blue 

Hurled  darts  upon  his  foes. 

Eternal  foe  of  Gloom  and  Night, 

On  high  he  raised  his  arm ; 
His  shield  of  gold,  all  shining  bright. 

Sheltered  the  world  from  harm. 


The  FoDNDraG  of  Van 


**  It  is  needful  that  we  build  for  ourselves  a 
dty  and  palaces  in  this  balmy  clime  and  beautiful 
country,  by  the  side  of  these  pure  waters/' 

Moses  of  Khorem, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    FOUNDING   OF   VAN 

From  the  History  of  Armenia, 

by 
MOSES  OF  KHORENE 

And  after  these  things  Semiramis,  having  remained  in  the  plain  called  Airarat  after  Ara, 
went  into  the  hill  country  towards  the  south.  For  it  was  summer  time  and  she  wished 
to  disport  herself  in  the  valleys  and  the  flowery  plains.  And  seeing  the  beauty  of  the  land 
and  the  purity  of  the  air,  the  clearness  of  the  fountains  and  the  murmuring  of  the  gliding 
rivers,  she  said,  "  It  is  needful  that  we  build  for  ourselves  a  city  and  palaces  in  this  balmy 
clime  and  beautiful  country,  by  the  side  of  these  pure  waters  j  so  that  we  may  spend  the 
fourth  part  of  the  year,  which  is  the  summer  season,  with  enjoyment  in  the  land  of  Armenia ; 
and  the  three  cool  seasons  of  the  year  we  will  spend  in  Nineveh." 

And  passing  over  many  places  she  came  to  the  eastern  shore  of  the  salt  lake.  And  on 
the  shore  of  the  lake  she  saw  a  long  hill  lying  towards  the  setting  sun.  And  south  of  the 
hill  was  a  wide  valley  like  unto  a  plain,  which  came  down  from  the  eastern  flank  of  the  hill 
unto  the  shore  of  the  lake,  spacious  and  of  goodly  shape.  And  the  rills  of  sweet  water  descend- 
ing from  the  mountains  ran  down  the  ravines,  and  meeting  around  the  spurs  of  the  hills  they 
hastened  to  join  the  river.  And  there  were  not  a  few  buildings  erected  in  the  valley  on 
the  right  and  left  banks  of  the  waters.    And  she  selected  a  small  hill  on  the  eastern  side. 

After  gazing  thence  for  a  while  that  evil  and  hard-hearted  woman  Semiramis  com- 
manded that  twelve  thousand  unskilled  workmen  and  six  thousand  of  her  chosen  men  skilled 
in  all  manner  of  wood,  stone,  copper,  and  iron  work  should  be  brought  from  Assyria  and  all 
other  lands  to  the  desired  place.  And  it  was  done  according  to  her  command.  And  im- 
mediately a  great  multitude  of  diverse  workmen  were  brought,  and  of  wise  and  gifted  workers 
in  all  the  arts.  And  she  commanded  first  to  make  the  dyke  of  the  river,  of  boulders  and  great 
rocks  cemented  together  with  clay,  of  great  width  and  height ;  the  which  it  is  said  remains 
firm  until  this  day,  so  that  in  the  clefts  of  these  dykes  pirates  and  exiles  do  fortify  themselves 
as  in  the  caves  of  the  mountains,  none  being  able  to  wrench  even  one  stone  from  the  dyke. 

33  D 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

And  when  one  looked  upon  the  cement  it  appeared  like  a  torrent  of  fat.  Thus  having  taken 
the  dyke  round  over  much  ground  she  brought  it  unto  the  intended  site  of  the  city.  There 
she  commanded  the  multitude  of  the  workers  to  be  divided  into  diverse  sections,  placing  over 
each  section  a  chosen  master  of  the  arts.  And  under  such  oppression  did  she  keep  them 
that  after  a  few  years  the  wondrous  rampart  with  its  gates  of  wrought  copper  was  completed. 
And  she  made  beautiful  buildings  in  the  city,  and  palaces  of  different  stones  decorated  with 
colours,  two  stories  and  three  stories  high.  For  each  one  she  did  build  summer-houses, 
separating  the  various  quarters  of  the  town  from  each  other  by  beautiful  streets.  She  built 
also  wondrous  baths  in  the  midst  of  the  city  for  the  use  of  the  people,  and  divided  the  water 
passing  through  the  town  into  two  parts,  one  for  watering  the  fragrant  orchards  and  flower- 
gardens,  and  the  other  for  the  drinking  water  of  the  city  and  its  surroundings.  On  the  east, 
north,  and  south  of  the  city  she  built  pleasure  houses,  and  planted  orchards  with  leafy  trees 
that  bore  diverse  kinds  of  fruit  and  foliage  ;  she  also  planted  many  vines.  The  whole  city 
she  surrounded  with  stately  ramparts,  and  caused  great  multitudes  to  dwell  therein. 

But  concerning  the  far  end  of  the  city,  and  the  miraculous  works  that  were  done  there,  it 
surpasseth  the  power  of  a  man  to  tell,  neither  can  they  be  understood  by  man.  For  there, 
surrounded  by  fortifications,  she  did  construct  the  Royal  Palace,  in  great  mystery.  For  the 
entrances  were  hard,  and  the  passages  leading  out  of  it  like  those  of  hell.  Concerning  the 
manner  of  its  making  we  have  never  read  a  true  description,  neither  do  we  propose  to  weave 
it  into  our  history  ;  but  we  only  say  that  of  all  royal  works  it  is,  as  we  have  heard,  esteemed 
the  first  and  greatest.  And  on  the  west  side  of  the  rock — whereon  no  man  can  now  make  any 
impression,  even  with  iron — in  this  adamantine  substance  she  constructed  many  temples, 
bed-chambers,  and  treasure-houses ;  and  great  trenches,  so  that  none  knoweth  for  what 
manner  of  things  she  made  these  marvellous  preparations.  And  smoothing  the  face  of  the 
rock  as  one  would  smooth  wax  with  a  pen,  she  wrote  many  inscriptions  thereon ;  so  that 
even  to  look  at  it  causeth  a  man  to  be  amazed. 


Armenian   Legends  and   Poems 

I    HAVE   A    WORD    I    FAIN    WOULD    SAY 

By  SAYAT  nova 

I  HAVE  a  word  I  fain  would  say — ^list  patiently.  Light  of  my  Eyes ; 
A  ceaseless  longing  fills  my  heart  thy  face  to  see,  Light  of  my  Eyes. 
How  have  I  sinned  that  thou  shouldst  thus  offended  be.  Light  of  my  Eyes  i 
The  world  is  sated  with  the  world, — I  starve  for  thee.  Light  of  my  Eyes. 

A  sea  of  blood  is  in  my  heart,  and  tears  forever  fill  my  eyes ; 
No  salve  can  heal  my  wound,  the  cure  in  my  beloved's  presence  hes. 
All  sick  of  love  I  lay,  and  watched  her  pathway  with  my  longing  eyes ; 
When  I  was  dead  she  came ;    'twas  but  the  layer-out  who  heard  her  sighs. 

Fair  springtime  now  is  fully  here,  the  meadows  gay  with  leaf  and  flower ; 
The  hill-sides  strewn  with  violets,  the  nightingale  sent  to  the  bower. 
But  why  cannot  his  voice  be  heard  i    O  thorn-tree,  whence  thy  cruel  power  i 
Thy  branches  pierced  his  heart ;    the  rose  was  mourning  left  within  her  tower. 

The  scarlet  poppy  thought  to  tempt  and  lure  the  wandering  nightingale. 
When  he  was  dreaming  of  the  rose  tied  round  with  wisps  of  basil  pale. 
None  pitied  him — the  rose  was  plucked  by  those  who  first  came  to  the  vale. 
Alas,  poor  nightingale,  the  hedge  has  caught  and  pierced  thy  body  frail ! 

God  knows  my  life  I  count  but  nought;  for  thee  I'd  give  it  joyfully. 
Come,  let  us  taste  of  love's  delights,  let  him  that  listeth  envious  be. 
No  wish  of  thine  shall  be  refused,  so  but  thy  face  I  radiant  see. 
If  immortality  thou'dst  have,  my  love  shall  e'en  bring  that  to  thee. 

And  if  I  had  a  thousand  woes  no  murmur  from  my  lips  would  rise : 
Thou  art  my  Ruler,  none  beside;  no  sovereign  own  I  otherwise. 
Sayat  Nova  says,  "  Heartless  one,  death  is  not  death  for  him  who  dies 
So  thou  but  mourn  him  with  thy  locks  spread  over  him.  Light  of  my  Eyes." 
35 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE 

SONG   OF   THE    PARTRIDGE 

FOLK  SONG 

The  sun  has  touched  the  mountain's  crest, 
The  partridge  rises  from  her  nest; 
And  down  the  hillside  tripping  fast. 
Greets  all  the  flowers  as  she  goes  past. 

I  breakfast  on  my  roof  at  morn 
When  to  my  ear  her  voice  is  borne — 
When  swinging  from  the  mountain  side. 
She  chirps  her  song  in  all  her  pride. 

Thy  nest  is  dewed  with  summer  showers; 
Basil,  narcissus,  lotus  flowers. 
Enamel  it,  and  breathe  to  thee 
Perfumes  of  immortality. 

Soft  feathers  all  thy  body  deck. 
Small  is  thy  beak,  and  long  thy  neck. 
Thy  wings  are  worked  with  colours  rare, 
The  dove  is  not  so  sweet  and  fair. 

The  little  partridge  flies  aloft 
Upon  the  branch,  and  warbles  soft ; 
He  cheers  the  world,  and  heals  the  smart 
When  seas  of  blood  well  in  the  heart, 
36 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    LILY   OF   SHAVARSHAN 

By  LEO  ALISHAN 

(1820-1901) 

Armenian  maidens,  come  and  view 
In  Shavarshan  a  lily  new ! 

The  radiant  type  of  maidenhood. 

Crown  of  Armenia's  pride  ! 
From  the  fair  brow  beneath  her  veil 

The  wind-stirred  curls  float  wide 
With  little  steps,  like  turtle  dove. 

She  walks  the  dew-bright  plain  j 
Her  lips  drop  honey,  and  her  eyes 

Effulgent  glances  rain. 

The  beauty  of  Armenia, 

A  sun-like  mirror  clear. 
Our  Northern  star  is  bright  Santoukhd, 

The  king's  fair  daughter  dear. 
She  has  come  forth,  the  graceful  bride 

On  whom  the  East  and  West 
Desire  to  look,  while  fires  of  love 

Consume  the  gazer's  breast. 

Less  fair  the  bright  and  morning  star, 

'Mid  cloudlets  small  and  fine; 
Less  fair  the  fruit  whose  rosy  tints 

'Mid  apple  leaves  outshine ; 
Araxes'  hyacinthine  flower 

That  chains  of  dew  doth  wear. 
All  are  less  beautiful  than  she. 

With  gracious  mien  and  air. 
37 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

At  sight  of  her,  the  snowy  peaks 

Melt  and  are  flushed  with  rose ; 
Trees,  flowers  bud  forth;   the  nightingales 

All  sing  where'er  she  goes. 
The  bell-flowers  open  myriad  eyes 

When  she  comes  through  the  bowers ; 
Beneath  her  breath,  the  vales  and  hills 

Alike  are  clad  in  flowers. 


Before  her  have  been  bent  to  earth 

Foreheads  with  diadems ; 
The  valley  has  become  a  hill 

Of  scattered  gold  and  gems. 
Where  passes  by  with  humble  grace 

Armenia's  virgin  sweet, 
Fine  sands  of  pearls  come  longingly 

To  spread  beneath  her  feet. 


Full  many  a  monarch's  valiant  son 

Has  left  his  palace  home 
In  Persia  or  Albania, 

In  India  or  in  Rome. 
Admiringly  they  gaze  on  her. 

Exclaiming,  "  Happy  he 
Who  wins  the  fair  Armenian  maid 

His  bride  beloved  to  be  !  " 


But  palace  worthy  of  Santoukhd 
The  earth  can  nowhere  show, 

And  for  the  arches  of  her  brows 
This  world  is  all  too  low. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

The  Sky  says^  "  Let  her  on  my  throne 
Reign  queen  o'er  every  land." 

The  Ocean  says,  '*  My  purple  waves 
Shall  bow  to  her  command." 

There  is  One  greater  than  the  earth. 

More  wide  than  sea-waves  run. 
Higher  and  vaster  than  the  heavens. 

And  brighter  than  the  sun. 
There  is  a  formidable  King 

Whose  power  no  bound  has  known ; 
The  royal  maid  Santoukhd  shall  be 

For  Him,  and  Him  alone. 
Her  halls  of  light  are  all  prepared. 

And  for  a  footstool  meet 
The  azure  sky  adorned  with  stars 

Awaits  her  dove-like  feet. 


The  sharp  sword  glitters  in  the  air. 

And  swift  the  red  blood  flows ; 
Santoukhd,  who  was  a  hly  fair. 

Falls  to  the  earth,  a  rose. 
The  sword  flashed  once,  and  aspects  three 

Were  in  Santoukhd  descried ; 
Her  heart  dropped  blood,  and  roses  red 

Sprang  up  on  every  side ; 
Her  eyes  were  violet  chalices. 

Sweet  e'en  while  they  expire ; 
Her  face,  like  lilies  half  unclosed. 

But  on  her  lips  what  fire  ! 

The  heaven  and  earth  shine  white  and  red ; 
Come  forth  and  gather,  maids, 
39 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

The  rose  and  lily  joined  in  one, 

This  peerless  flower  that  fades ! 
Lay  in  the  tomb  that  youthful  corpse. 

With  Thaddeus,  good  and  brave. 
Sweet  maiden  of  Armenia, 

Her  sweet  soil  be  thy  grave ! 
Armenian  maids,  a  lily  new 
Is  brought  to  Shavarshan  for  you !  ' 

Translated  by  Alice  Stone  Blackwell. 

'  Santoukhd  was  martyred  by  the  order  of  her  father,  King  Sanadroug,  for  becoming  a  Christian. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

CRADLE    SONG 

By  RAPHAEL  PATKANIAN 

Nightingale,  oh,  leave  our  garden. 

Where  soft  dews  the  blossoms  steep ; 
With  thy  litanies  melodious 

Come  and  sing  my  son  to  sleep  ! 
Nay,  he  sleeps  not  for  thy  chanting. 

And  his  weeping  hath  not  ceased. 
Come  not,  nightingale  !    My  darling 

Does  not  wish  to  be  a  priest. 
O  thou  thievish,  clever  jackdaw. 

That  in  coin  findest  thy  joy. 
With  thy  tales  of  gold  and  profit 

Come  and  soothe  my  wailing  boy ! 
Nay,  thy  chatter  does  not  lull  him. 

And  his  crying  is  not  stayed. 
Come  not,  jackdaw  !   for  my  darling 

Will  not  choose  the  merchant's  trade. 
Wild  dove,  leave  the  fields  and  pastures 

Where  thou  grievest  all  day  long; 
Come  and  bring  my  boy  sweet  slumber 

With  thy  melancholy  song ! 
Still  he  weeps.    Nay,  come  not  hither. 

Plaintive  songster,  for  I  see 
That  he  loves  not  lamentations. 

And  no  mourner  will  he  be. 
Leave  thy  chase,  brave-hearted  falcon  ! 

Haply  he  thy  song  would  hear. 
And  the  boy  lay  hushed,  and  slumbered. 

With  the  war-notes  in  his  ear. 

Translated  by  Alice  Stone  BlackwelL 
41 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    WIND    IS    HOWLING    THROUGH 
THE   WINTER    NIGHT 

By  AVETIS  ISAHAKIAN 

The  wind  is  howling  through  the  winter  night, 
Like  to  a  pack  of  angry  wolves  that  cry. 
My  hapless  willows  bend  before  its  might ; 
Their  broken  branches  in  the  garden  lie. 

Alas,  my  heart,  thy  love  since  childhood's  days 
Hath  wept ;    thy  dream  was  understood  by  none. 
Seek  not  in  vain  a  friend  to  know  thy  ways — 
The  soul  is  born  eternally  alone. 

Thou  from  thy  hopeless  heart  that  love  shalt  cast — 
That  child  of  earth,  false,  illegitimate  : 
Shalt  fling  it  to  the  night  and  wintry  blast — 
Out  in  the  storm — there  let  it  find  its  fate. 

There  motherless  and  orphaned  let  it  weep. 
And  let  the  wind  its  sobbings  onward  bear 
Unto  some  desert  place,  or  stormy  deep — 
But  not  where  human  soul  its  voice  may  hear. 

The  wind  is  howling  in  its  agony 

All  through  this  snow-bound  night,  with  piercing  cry ; 

Alas,  beneath  the  broken  willow  tree 

My  shattered  love  lies  dying — let  it  die, 

42 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE   ARMENIAN    POET'S    PRAYER 

By  ALEXANDER  DZADOURIAN 

{Born  1870) 

O  God,  'tis  not  for  laurel  wreaths  I  pray. 
For  pompous  funeral  or  jubilee ; 
Nor  yet  for  fame  beyond  my  life's  decay — 
All  these  my  country  will  accord  to  me. 

One  favour.  Lord  of  Heaven,  I  implore — 
One  that  my  land  to  me  will  never  give: 
Grant  me  a  crust  of  bread,  or  else  such  store 
Of  grace  that  I  on  air  may  learn  to  live  ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    CHRAGAN    PALACE 

By  THOMAS  TERZYAN 
(1842-1909) 

Have  you  ever  seen  that  wondrous  building, 

Whose  white  shadows  in  the  blue  wave  sleeps' 

There  Carrara  sent  vast  mounds  of  marble, 
And  Propontis,  beauty  of  the  deep. 

From  the  tombs  of  centuries  awaking, 
Souls  of  every  clime  and  every  land 

Have  poured  forth  their  rarest  gifts  and  treasures 
Where  those  shining  halls  in  glory  stand. 

Ships  that  pass  before  that  stately  palace. 
Gliding  by  with  open  sails  agleam. 

In  its  shadow  pause  and  gaze,  astonished. 
Thinking  it  some  Oriental  dream. 

New  its  form,  more  wondrous  than  the  Gothic, 

Than  the  Doric  or  Ionic  fair ; 
At  command  of  an  Armenian  genius  ' 

Did  the  master  builder  rear  it  there. 

By  the  windows,  rich  with  twisted  scroll-work. 
Rising  upward,  marble  columns  shine. 

And  the  sunbeams  lose  their  way  there,  wandering 
Where  a  myriad  ornaments  entwine. 

'  The  late  Hagop  Bey  Balian. 
44 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

An  immortal  smile,  its  bright  reflection 

In  the  water  of  the  blue  sea  lies. 
And  it  shames  Granada's  famed  Alhambra, 

O'er  whose  beauty  wondering  bend  the  skies. 

Oft  at  midnight,  in  the  pale,  faint  starlight. 
When  its  airy  outline,  clear  and  fair. 

On  the  far  horizon  is  depicted. 

With  its  trees  and  groves  around  it  there. 

You  can  fancy  that  those  stones  grow  living. 
And,  amid  the  darkness  of  the  night. 

Change  to  lovely  songs,  to  which  the  spirit, 
Dreaming,  listens  with  a  vague  delight. 

Have  you  ever  seen  that  wondrous  building 

Whose  white  shadows  in  the  blue  wave  sleep  S* 

There  Carrara  sent  vast  mounds  of  marble. 
And  Propontis,  beauty  of  the  deep. 

It  is  not  a  mass  of  earthly  matter. 

Not  a  work  from  clay  or  marble  wrought ; 

From  the  mind  of  an  Armenian  genius 

Stands  embodied  there  a  noble  thought. 

Translated  by  Alice  Stone  Blackwell. 


Armenian   Legends  and   Poems 

THE    DREAM 

By   SMPAD  SHAHAZIZ 
( I 840-1 897) 

Soft  and  low  a  voice  breathed  o'er  me, 
Near  me  did  my  mother  seem ; 

Flashed  a  ray  of  joy  before  me, 
But,  alas,  it  was  a  dream  ! 

There  the  murmuring  streamlet  flowing 
Scattered  radiant  pearls  around, 

Pure  and  clear,  like  crystal  glowing — 
But  it  was  a  dream,  unsound. 

And  my  mother's  mournful  singing 
Took  me  back  to  childhood's  day, 

To  my  mind  her  kisses  bringing — 
'Twas  a  dream  and  passed  away ! 

To  her  heart  she  pressed  me  yearning. 
Wiped  her  eyes  which  wet  did  seem; 

And  her  tears  fell  on  me  burning — 
Why  should  it  have  been  a  dream  5* 


46 


Armenian  Legends  and    Poems 


THE  SORROWS  OF  ARMENIA 


In  many  a  distant,  unknown  land. 
My  sons  beloved  exiled  roam, 

Servile  they  kiss  the  stranger's  hand ; 

How  shall  I  find  and  bring  them  home  S* 

The  ages  pass,  no  tidings  come ; 

My  brave  ones  fall,  are  lost  and  gone. 
My  blood  is  chilled,  my  voice  is  dumb. 

And  friend  or  comfort  I  have  none. 

With  endless  griefs  my  heart  is  worn. 

Eternal  sorrow  is  my  doom ; 
Far  from  my  sons,  despis'd,  forlorn, 

I  must  descend  the  darksome  tomb. 

Thou  shepherd  wandering  o'er  the  hill. 
Come  weep  with  me  my  children  lost ; 

Let  mournful  strains  the  valleys  fill 

For  those  we  loved  and  valued  most. 

Fly,  crane,  Armenia's  bird,  depart; 

Tell  them  I  die  of  grief;  and  tell 
How  hope  is  dead  within  my  heart — 

Bear  to  my  sons  my  last  farewell ! 
47 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


ARTASHES   AND   SATENIK 

From  the  History  of  Armenia, 

by 
MOSES  OF  KHORENE 

At  this  time  the  Alans  united  with  all  the  people  of  the  mountain  country,  and  having  taken 
possession  of  the  half  of  Georgia,  spread  themselves  in  great  multitudes  over  our  land.  And 
Artashes  collected  a  mighty  host  together,  and  there  was  war  between  the  two  great  nations. 
The  Alans  retreated  somewhat,  and  crossing  over  the  river  Kur  they  encamped  on  its  northern 
bank.  And  when  Artashes  arrived,  he  encamped  on  the  southern  bank,  so  that  the  river  was 
between  them.  But  because  the  son  of  the  King  of  the  Alans  was  taken  captive  by  the 
Armenian  hosts  and  brought  to  Artashes,  the  King  of  the  Alans  sought  peace,  promising  to 
give  to  Artashes  whatsoever  he  should  ask.  And  he  swore  an  eternal  peace  unto  him,  so  that 
the  sons  of  the  Alans  might  not  be  carried  away  captive  into  the  land  of  the  Armenians.  And 
when  Artashes  would  not  consent  to  giye  back  the  youth,  his  sister  came  to  the  river's  bank  and 
stood  upon  a  great  rock.  And  by  means  of  the  interpreters  she  spoke  to  the  camp  of  Artashes, 
saying  : — "  O  brave  Artashes,  who  hast  vanquished  the  great  nation  of  the  Alans,  unto  thee 
I  speak.  Come,  hearken  unto  the  bright-eyed  daughter  of  the  Alan  King,  and  give  back  the 
youth.  For  it  is  not  the  way  of  heroes  to  destroy  life  at  the  root,  nor  for  the  sake  of  humbling 
and  enslaving  a  hostage  to  establish  everlasting  enmity  between  two  great  nations."  And 
on  hearing  such  wise  sayings,  Artashes  went  to  the  bank  of  the  river.  And  seeing  that  the 
maiden  was  beautiful,  and  having  heard  these  words  of  wisdom  from  her,  he  desired  her. 
And  calling  Smpad  his  chamberlain  he  told  him  the  wishes  of  his  heart,  and  commanded 
that  he  should  obtain  the  maiden  for  him,  swearing  unto  the  great  Alan  nation  oaths  of  peace, 
and  promising  to  send  the  youth  back  in  safety.  And  this  appeared  wise  in  the  eyes  of  Smpad, 
and  he  sent  messengers  unto  the  King  of  the  Alans  asking  him  to  give  the  lady  Satenik  his 
daughter  as  wife  unto  Artashes.  And  the  King  of  the  Alans  answered,  "  From  whence  shall 
brave  Artashes  give  thousands  upon  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  upon  tens  of  thousands 
unto  the  Alans  in  return  for  the  maiden  i  " 


Artashes  and  Satenk 

"  O  brave  Artashes,  who  hast  vanquished  the 
great  nation  of  the  Alans,  unto  thee  I  speak. 
Come,  hearken  unto  the  bright-eyed  daughter  of 
the  Alan  King,  and  give  back  the  youth.  For  it  is 
not  the  way  of  heroes  to  destroy  life  at  the  root 
nor  .  ,  .  to  establish  everlasting  enmity  between 
two  great  nations." 

Moses  of  Khorene. 


The  Wedding 


**  It  rained  showers  of  gold  when  Artashes  became 
a  brid^^-oom. 
It  rained  pearls  when  Satemk  became  a  bride." 
Moses  of  Khorene, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Concerning  this  the  poets  of  that  land  sing  in  their  songs  : — 

"  Brave  King  Artashes 
Mounted  his  fine  black  charger, 
And  took  the  red  leathern  cord 
With  the  golden  ring. 
Like  a  swift-winged  eagle 
He  passed  over  the  river, 
And  cast  the  golden  ring 
Round  the  waist  of  the  Alan  Princess ; 
Causing  much  pain 
To  the  tender  maiden 
As  he  bore  her  swiftly 
Back  to  his  camp." 

Which  being  interpreted  meaneth  that  he  was  commanded  to  give  much  gold,  leather, 
and  crimson  dye  in  exchange  for  the  maiden.  So  also  they  sing  of  the  wedding  : — 

"  It  rained  showers  of  gold  when  Artashes  became  a  bridegroom. 
It  rained  pearls  when  Satenik  became  a  bride." 

For  it  was  the  custom  of  our  kings  to  scatter  coins  amongst  the  people  when  they  arrived 
at  the  doors  of  the  temple  for  their  wedding,  as  also  for  the  queens  to  scatter  pearls  in  their 
bridechamber. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

MY    DEATH 

By  BEDROS  TOURIAN 

When  Death's  pale  angel  comes  to  me, 
And  smiling  sweetly  on  my  head. 
Bids  all  my  pains  and  sorrows  flee, — 
Believe  not  then  that  I  am  dead. 

When  my  cold  limbs  they  shroud  with  care. 
And  on  my  brow  love's  tear-drops  shed. 
And  lay  me  on  my  ebon  bier, — 
Beheve  not  then  that  I  am  dead. 

And  when  the  tolling  bell  shall  ring 
To  my  black  coffin's  muted  tread 
— Death's  fiendish  laughter,  quivering, — 
Believe  not  then  that  I  am  dead. 

And  when  the  black-robed  priests  shall  sing. 
And  prayers  and  incense  round  me  spread. 
With  faces  dark  and  sorrowing — 
Believe  not  still  that  I  am  dead. 

When  on  my  tomb  they  heap  the  clay. 
And  leave  me  in  my  lonely  bed. 
And  loved  ones  turn  with  sobs  away — 
Then  never  think  that  I  am  dead. 

But  if  my  grave  neglected  lie. 
My  memory  too  be  gone  and  fled. 
And  dear  ones  pass  unheeding  by. 
Ah,  then  believe  that  I  am  dead ! 
50 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    EAGLE'S    LOVE 

By  SHUSHANIK  GOURGHINIAN 
{Born  1876) 

An  eagle  sat  upon  the  fell, — 

He  sat  and  sang  alone. 
A  pretty  maid  passed  in  the  dell. 

He  saw — his  heart  was  won. 

"  Ah,  lovely  maid,  enchanting  maid, 

Alas,  thou  canst  not  fly ! 
Down  in  the  vale  thou  soon  shalt  fade. 

And  like  a  floweret  die. 

"  I'd  make  thee  queen,  if  thou  could'st  fly, 
Of  all  my  mountains  steep ; 

At  night  rd  sing  thy  lullaby. 

And  in  my  wings  thou'dst  sleep. 

"  Those  eyes  are  like  black  night  to  me. 
That  smile  like  sunshine  bright ; 

And  heaven  itself  would  quickly  be 
Subdued  before  thy  might. 

**  Good  Lord,  canst  thou  not  fly  at  all  ?* 
Who  made  thee  without  wings  ?" 

Art  thou  content  down  there  to  crawl 
With  loathsome  creeping  things  ^  " 

Thus  on  his  rock  the  eagle  proud 

Sat  singing,  then  he  sailed 
O'er  hill  and  valley,  and  aloud 

The  maiden's  fate  bewailed. 
51 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


CONCERNING 
THE   ROSE   AND  THE   NIGHTINGALE 

By  GRIGORIS  OF  AGHTAMAR 
{Fifteenth  Century) 

The  Rose  was  gone.    When  to  the  empty  tent 
The  Nightingale  returned,  his  heart  was  torn. 
He  filled  the  night  with  mourning  and  lament, 
And  wandered  through  the  darkness  lone  and  lorn. 

"  To  thee  I  speak,  O  Garden,  answer  me. 
Why  did'st  thou  not  preserve  my  precious  Rose, 
Whose  perfume  breathed  of  immortality. 
Whose  colour  made  her  queen  of  all  that  grows  i 

"  May'st  thou  become  a  desert  parched  and  dry. 
And  may  the  flowers  that  grow  within  thee  fade ; 
May  thy  protecting  walls  in  ruin  lie — 
By  ruthless  feet  thy  soil  in  waste  be  laid. 

"  Ye  trees,  now  cast  away  your  verdant  leaves. 
And  rushing  torrents,  your  swift  courses  stay. 
Reckless  I  speak,  as  one  who  sorely  grieves, 
For  they  have  taken  my  sweet  love  away. 
53 


Armenian  Legends  and   Poems 

"  My  Rose  is  gone  and  I  am  desolate. 
Light  of  my  eyes  was  she^  now  darkness  reigns. 
Both  day  and  night  I  weep  disconsolate. 
My  reason  leaves  me,  and  my  spirit  wanes, 

**  Was  it  the  gardener  took  her  away 
And  grieved  my  soul  i    If  never  more  again 
I  should  behold  her  face,  what  shall  I  say  S* 
Instead  of  joy,  I'll  sing  of  grief  and  pain. 

**  Or  else  I  fear  the  mighty  wind  arose, 
And  blasted  with  its  strength  her  petals  frail ; 
Or  did  the  scorching  sunbeams  burn  my  Rose 
Within  her  leaves,  and  turn  her  beauty  pale  S*  .  .  . 

"  I  think  perhaps  the  flowers  were  wroth  with  me 

And  hid  her  from  my  sight  j    I'll  go  to  them. 

Or  else  the  clouds  in  cruel  enmity 

Sent  hailstones  down  that  broke  her  from  the  stem ! " 

Then  all  the  flowers  together  made  reply, 
"  We  have  no  tidings  of  the  Rose  at  all. 
She  left  us  suddenly,  we  know  not  why. 
We  have  no  tidings  of  the  Rose  at  all." 

The  Nightingale  then  rose  into  the  air, 
"  I'll  ask  the  birds  in  friendly  wise,"  he  said, 
**  If  they  can  tell  me  why  she  went,  and  where ; 
If  not,  a  sea  of  tears  my  eyes  shall  shed, 

**  Birds,  do  you  know  what  came  to  pass  to-day  i 
The  lovely  Rose  was  stolen  from  her  home. 
Know  you  perchance  who  carried  her  away  5" 
Have  you  seen  aught,  or  heard  where  she  doth  roam  ?* " 
53 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

They  said^  "  The  Lord  Creator  knoweth  all ; 
No  secrets  of  the  heart  from  Him  are  hid. 
On  Him  as  witness  reverently  we  call — 
We  have  not  seen  or  touched  her — God  forbid ! " 

The  Nightingale  then  sadly  made  reply, 

''  What  will  become  of  me  i    From  night  to  morn 

I  have  no  rest,  and  I  shall  surely  die. 

Parted  from  her,  with  ceaseless  longings  worn. 

"  If  in  her  stead  the  world  to  me  were  given 
I  would  esteem  it  but  a  paltry  thing ; 
If  choirs  of  minstrels  sang  the  songs  of  heaven. 
To  me  their  songs  as  discords  harsh  would  ring. 

**  Oh,  in  what  corner  have  they  buried  thee  i 
How  shall  I  e'er  forget  thy  tenderness  i 
My  heart  and  soul  are  wounded  grievously. 
All  flowers  are  dead — this  place  a  wilderness. 

"  The  Psalmist's  words  are  now  fulfilled  in  me ; 
Mournful  I  go,  and  like  a  pelican 
About  the  wilderness  roam  hopelessly. 
Or  like  an  owl  the  sandy  desert  scan." 

The  gardener  then  with  soothing  words  drew  near, 
"  Weep  not,  she  will  return,  O  Nightingale. 
The  Violet,  her  forerunner,  is  here. 
And  brings  thee  messages  and  words  of  hail." 

Then  he  rejoiced  and  blessed  the  gardener, 
"  May'st  thou  in  peace  upon  this  earth  abide. 
Thy  garden  flourish  with  its  bright  allure. 
Its  circling  walls  renew  their  former  pride. 
54 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"  May  all  thy  plants  grow  verdant  once  again, 
And  gently  sway  about  upon  the  breeze, 
May  they  receive  fresh  brightness  from  the  rain, 
And  waft  sweet  perfume  human  hearts  to  please ! ' 


Then  did  the  Nightingale  write  a  letter  unto  the  Rose  who  collected  all  the  Flowers 
and  caused  it  to  be  read  in  their  presence. 


They  took  the  letter  to  the  Rose's  Court, 
Where  Hazrevart,  her  minister  austere. 
Stood  on  his  feet  with  stately  mien  and  port 
And  read  it  out  for  all  the  flowers  to  hear : — 


"  I  greet  thee,  O  beloved  of  my  heart. 
And  fain  would  hear  concerning  this  thy  rape. 
I  trust  through  God's  protecting  care  thou  art 
Perfect  in  health,  as  faultless  in  thy  shape. 


"  For  which  with  outstretched  hands  I  ever  pray. 
And  beg  that  length  of  days  be  granted  thee ; 
All  flowers  bend  to  thee  and  homage  pay. 
Thou  rulest  them  in  all  thy  majesty. 


"  Thy  hue  is  beautiful,  thy  perfume  sweet. 
Each  morn  thou  shinest  brighter  than  the  sun. 
Happy  the  day  when  thee  once  more  I  meet, — 
For  thou  art  full  of  grace,  my  spotless  one. 
55 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

**  Apart  from  thee,  in  humble  reverence, 
I  worship  thee,  and  pray  for  thy  return. 
I  have  no  sleep  at  night  for  this  suspense. 
Now  Spring  is  here  I  ever  weep  and  mourn. 

"  The  icy  winter  passed — I  lived  it  through. 
Still  suffering  many  things  because  of  thee ; 
They  mocked  at  me,  and  said  thou  wast  not  true — 
My  Rose  had  no  more  love  or  care  for  me." 

Then  sent  the  Rose  unto  the  Nightingale, 
And  said :   "  Behold,  I  send  him  many  flowers. 
And  they  shall  cover  mountain,  hill,  and  dale. 
My  Nightingale  shall  dwell  within  those  bowers. 

**  I  cannot  there  return  immediately ; 
A  little  he  must  wait,  in  patient  wise : 
But  if  his  love  is  perfectly  with  me. 
Tell  him  to  look  for  it  in  Paradise." 

The  Nightingale  rejoiced  on  hearing  this 

And  said :  "  The  beauteous  Rose  shall  then  return  ! 

What  tidings  wonderful  of  untold  bliss  ! 

For  all  the  world  her  ransom  could  not  earn." 

And  when  the  sun  into  the  Ram  had  passed. 

The  thunder  rolled,  the  storm-clouds  broke  in  showers ; 

Myriads  of  blossoms  o'er  the  earth  were  cast : — 

He  sought  the  Rose — she  was  not  of  those  flowers. 

"Until  one  morn  he  saw  her  foliage  green, 
Lovely  and  fresh  as  it  had  been  before : 
The  Rose  was  hidden  in  a  silken  screen 
And  every  flower  worshipped  her  once  more. 
56 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

The  Nightingale  beheld  and  said :  "  Thank  Heaven ! 
Blessing  and  praise  from  every  mouth  be  breathed ; 
To  Heaven's  King  be  endless  glory  given — 
For  in  her  bud  I  saw  the  Rose  ensheathed ! " 


Foolish  Aghtamartzi,  beware  this  bane. 

For  this  world's  love  is  ever  linked  with  thorn ; 

A  little  while  'tis  gladness,  then  'tis  pain— 

What  boots  the  joy  which  needs  must  make  us  mourn  S* 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 
THE 

ARRIVAL   OF   THE    CRUSADERS 

By  saint  NERSES  SHNORHALI 

(1103-1173) 

Once  more  God  hither  moves  their  course ; 
With  countless  infantry  and  horse, 
As  swell  the  waves  towards  the  strand. 
Fierce  and  tempestuous,  they  land. 
Like  sands  that  by  the  ocean  lie, 
Or  like  the  stars  that  strew  the  sky. 
They  fill  the  earth  where'er  they  go 
And  whiten  it  as  wool  or  snow. 
Their  voice  is  like  the  northern  wind. 
Driving  the  storm-cloud  from  behind. 
They  clear  the  land  from  end  to  end. 
The  unbelievers  forth  they  send. 
Redeeming  from  such  hopeless  plight 
All  Christians  held  within  their  might. 
Now  in  the  churches  cold  and  dark. 
Once  more  shall  burn  the  taper's  spark; 
And  you,  my  sons,  late  forced  to  flee 
To  distant  lands,  afar  from  me. 
Shall  now  return  in  chariots  fair 
Drawn  by  brave  steeds  with  trappings  rare. 
And  I  shall  lift  mine  eyes  above 
Beholding  near  me  those  I  love. 
My  arms  about  you  I  shall  fold. 
Rejoicing  with  a  joy  untold ; 
And  my  black  robes  aside  will  lay 
To  dress  in  greens  and  crimsons  gay. 
58 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


LIKE  AN    OCEAN    IS   THIS 
WORLD 

By  HOVHANNES  ERZINGATZI 
(Born  1260) 

Like  an  ocean  is  this  world ; 
None  undrenched  may  cross  that  ocean. 

My  ship  too  its  sails  unfurled, 
Ere  I  knew  it  was  in  motion. 

Now  we  draw  towards  the  land. 
And  I  fear  the  sea-board  yonder: — 

Lest  the  rocks  upon  the  strand 
Break  and  tear  our  planks  asunder. 

I  will  pray  God  that  He  raise 
From  the  shore  a  breeze  to  meet  us, — 

To  disperse  this  gloomy  haze. 
That  a  happy  land  may  greet  us. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE   ROCK 

By  HOVHANNES  HOVHANNESSIAN 

Above  the  waters^  like  a  hoary  giaat, 
The  rock  stands  up,  majestic  and  defiant. 
The  little  waves,  as  to  and  fro  they  move. 
Greet  him  with  kisses  and  with  looks  of  love. 

The  wavelets  of  the  river  laugh  and  dance. 
As  in  their  arms  the  mirrored  sunbeams  glance ; 
And  with  their  smiles  of  winning,  child-like  grace. 
They  woo  the  rock,  and  murmur  in  his  face: 

*'  O  Aged-One,  why  art  thou  never  glad  $* 
The  lines  that  seam  thy  countenance  are  sad. 
The  world  is  ever  changing;   thou  alone 
Art  still  the  same  with  thy  dark  face  of  stone. 

"  Free  children  of  the  mountains  ever  free. 
We  bring  rich  gifts  of  jewels  unto  thee ; 
Scent  thee  with  perfumes  of  the  mountain  rose — 
Heaven's  daughter  fair,  that  on  our  margin  grows. 

"  Sweet  strains  of  gentle  melody  we  breathe, 
And  call  the  fishes  from  otu-  depths  beneath; 
And  gilded  with  the  spring-tide's  golden  rays. 
We  make  thee  on  our  merry  revels  gaze. 
60 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"  And  songs  of  love  we  warble  in  thine  ear^ 
From  morning  dawn  until  the  stars  appear : — 
We  fondle  thee,  and  on  thine  aged  breast 
Our  passions  lull,  and  bid  them  sink  to  rest." 

The  wavelets  hasten,  moving  to  and  fro. 

The  rock  still  sorrows  o'er  his  ancient  woe ; 

The  wavelets  play,  and  laughing  onward  press— 

The  rock  remains,  gloomy  and  motionless. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE   CRANE 

By  HOVHANNES  TOUMANIAN 

{Born  1869) 

The  Crane  has  lost  his  way  across  the  heaven^ 
From  yonder  stormy  cloud  I  hear  him  cry^ 
A  traveller  o'er  an  unknown  pathway  driven. 
In  a  cold  world  unheeded  he  doth  fly. 

Ah,  whither  leads  this  pathway  long  and  dark. 
My  God,  where  ends  it,  thus  with  fears  obsessed  S* 
When  shall  night  end  this  day's  last  glimmering  spark  ?* 
Where  shall  my  weary  feet  to-night  find  rests' 

Farewell,  belovfed  bird,  where'er  thou  roam 
Spring  shall  return  and  bring  thee  back  once  more. 
With  thy  sweet  mate  and  young  ones,  to  thy  home — 
Thy  last  year's  nest  upon  the  sycamore. 

But  I  am  exiled  from  my  ruined  nest. 
And  roam  with  faltering  steps  from  hill  to  hill. 
Like  to  the  fowls  of  heaven  in  my  unrest 
Envying  the  boulders  motionless  and  still. 

Each  boulder  unassailed  stands  in  its  place, 
But  I  from  mine  must  wander  tempest  tossed — 
And  every  bird  its  homeward  way  can  trace. 
But  I  must  roam  in  darkness,  lone  and  lost. 

Ah,  whither  leads  this  pathway  long  and  dark. 
My  God,  where  ends  it,  thus  with  fears  obsessed  s* 
When  shall  night  end  this  day's  last  glimmering  sparks' 
Where  shall  my  weary  feet  to-night  find  rests' 
62 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    HAWK   AND   THE    DOVE 

FOLK  SONG 

The  Hawk  said  to  the  Dove^  "  My  dear. 
Why  dost  thou  shed  tear  after  tear. 
That  go  to  swell  the  streamlet  clear  S* " 
The  Dove  said  to  the  Hawk,  "  I  fear 
That  spring  is  gone  and  autumn's  here ; 
The  rills  have  ceased  their  glad  career, 
The  leaves  and  flowers  are  dead  and  sere. 
The  partridges  no  more  we  hear ; 
So  I  shall  weep  in  my  despair. 
And  from  my  eyes  shed  many  a  tear : — 
How  shall  I  find  my  babies'  fare  i  " 
He  said,  "  Weep  not  this  autumn  drear. 
For  spring  will  come  another  year. 
And  sunshine  bring  the  world  its  cheer. 
And  Hope  shall  for  the  poor  appear. 
Upon  my  pinions  thee  I'll  bear 
Where  those  tall  trees  their  summit  rear, 
And  high  upon  those  mountains  bare 
I'll  build  a  nest  with  tender  care, 
I'll  make  for  thee  a  dwelling  there, — 
A  hearth  laid  in  that  rocky  lair. 
With  chimney  open  to  the  air; 
The  smoke  shall  to  the  clouds  repair — 
And  to  the  South  Wind  fly  our  care ! " 
Autumn  gave  place  to  springtime  fair, 
63 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

The  rills  were  loosed  on  their  career 
And  went  to  swell  the  streamlet  clear. 
Like  blood-drops  from  the  boulders  bare. 
Bright  yellow  flowers  the  hills  did  wear. 
And  violets,  with  perfume  rare. 
And  flowers  of  countless  colours  fair ; 
And  birds  with  music  filled  the  air. 
And  bleating  lambs  called  everywhere 
To  God  for  all  His  love  and  care. 


Artavasd 


*  When  thou  ridest  forth  to  hunt 
Over  the  free  heights  of  Ararat, 
The  Strong  Ones  shall  have  thee. 
And  shall  take  thee  up 
On  to  the  free  heights  of  Ararat. 
There  shalt  thou  abide, 
And  never  more  see  the  light." 

Moses  of  Khorene, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


ARTAVASD 

From  the  History  of  Armenia, 

by 

MOSES  OF  KHORENE 

After  the  death  of  Artashes  his  son  Artavasd  reigned,  and  he  drove  all  his  brothers  and 
sisters  to  the  lands  of  Aghyovd  and  Arberan,  that  they  might  not  live  in  Airarat,  on  the  terri- 
tory of  the  King.  And  when  he  had  reigned  but  a  little  while,  as  he  was  riding  over  the 
bridge  of  Artashat  to  hunt  deer  and  wild  asses  on  the  banks  of  the  Ghin,  he  was  seized  by 
some  visionary  terror  and  lost  his  reason.  And  urging  his  horse  down  a  steep  bank  he  fell 
into  a  chasm,  wherein  he  sank  and  disappeared. 

The  singers  of  Ghogtan  tell  concerning  him,  that  when  his  father  was  dying  many  people 
killed  themselves  according  to  the  customs  of  the  heathen  ;  and  they  say  that  Artavasd  was 
wroth,  and  said  unto  his  father : 

"  Now  that  thou  art  gone 
And  hast  taken  with  thee  the  whole  land. 
How  shall  I  reign  over  the  ruins  <  " 

Therefore  Artashes  cursed  him,  and  said  : 

"  When  thou  ridest  forth  to  hunt 
Over  the  free  heights  of  Ararat, 
The  Strong  Ones  shall  have  thee, 
And  shall  take  thee  up 
On  to  the  free  heights  of  Ararat. 
There  shalt  thou  abide. 
And  never  more  see  the  light." 

Old  women  also  tell  of  him  how  that  he  is  confined  in  a  cavern  and  bound  with  iron 
chains.    And  his  two  dogs  do  daily  try  to  gnaw  through  the  chains  to  set  him  free,  that  he 

65  F 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

may  come  and  put  an  end  to  the  world ;  but  at  the  sound  of  the  hammers  striking  on  the 
anvil,  the  chains  are  strengthened.  So  also  even  in  our  own  times  many  blacksmiths  do 
keep  up  the  tradition  and  strike  the  anvil  three  or  four  times  on  a  Monday,  to  strengthen,  as 
they  say,  the  chains  of  Artavasd.  But  the  truth  concerning  him  is  as  we  have  declared  above. 

Others  say  that  at  his  birth  the  women  of  the  house  of  Ahasuerus  did  try  to  bewitch  him, 
and  therefore  Artashes  tormented  them  much ;  and  these  same  singers  say  also  that  the 
Children  of  the  Dragons  stole  the  infant  Artavasd  and  put  a  devil  in  his  place.  But  unto  us 
it  seemeth  that  being  full  of  wickedness  from  his  very  birth,  so  also  did  he  end. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


CHARM   VERSES  ^ 

FOLK    SONGS 

Snowless  hang  the  clouds  to-night. 
Through  the  darkness  comes  no  light ; 

While  my  lover,  far  away. 
Line  or  letter  will  not  write. 

Snowless  hang  the  clouds  to-night. 
Through  the  darkness  comes  no  light ; 

On  this  lonely  pillow  now. 
Never  more  shall  sleep  alight. 

*  *  ^ 

Like  a  star  whose  brightness  grows 
On  the  earth  my  beauty  shows; 

Thou  shalt  long  for  yet,  and  seek 
My  dark  eyes  and  arching  brows. 

*  *  * 

I  beheld  a  dream  last  night. 
Saw  these  haystacks  all  ahght; — 

They  have  borne  thy  love  away, — 
Wilt  not  come  and  for  her  fight  $* 

*  *  * 

Soft  winds  move  beneath  the  trees 
And  thy  locks  wave  in  the  breeze. 

Whilst  thou  roamest  hill  and  field 
Sleep  my  eyelids  ever  flees. 

'  A  great  number  of  these  little  poems  exist.  They  are  traditional,  and  are  used  for  fortune-telling.  On  the  Eve  of 
Ascension  Day  all  those  who  wish  to  have  their  fortunes  told  place  some  little  trinket  into  a  bowl  containing  seven  different 
kinds  of  flowers  and  water  from  seven  springs.  The  bowl  is  left  open  to  the  stars  until  dawn,  when  the  party  assemble 
and  select  a  child  who  cannot  tell  where  the  sun  rises  to  take  the  trinkets  out  as  the  verses  are  repeated.  The  owner  of  the 
token  takes  the  verse  preceding  its  being  brought  out  as  his  or  her  fortune. 

67 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 

Eden's  smile  my  vineyard  wore, 
Flowers   bloomed,  a  goodly  store ; 

Handsome  youth  and  ugly  maid— 
This  was  never  seen  before  ! 

*  *  * 
For  the  mountain  air  I'd  die. 
For  his  form  so  fair  I'd  die, 

Now  he's  far  off,  for  the  eyes 
That  have  seen  him  there  I'd  die. 

*  *  * 
'Tis  a  moonlight  night  to-night. 
Eyes  so  black  and  cheeks  so  bright. 

Give  me  but  the  one  I  love — 
Peace  to  you  then,  and  good-night ! 

*  *  * 
On  my  finger  is  a  ring. 
Crimson  rubies,  glistening. 

He  that  parts  me  from  my  love,- 
Satan  to  his  soul  shall  cling. 

*  *  * 
Long  and  lone  this  night  to  me 
Passing  slow  and  wearily; 

Passing  full  of  sighs  and  tears — 
Love,  what  doth  it  bring  to  thee?* 

*  *  * 
Round  the  moon  a  halo  grew, 

In  its  depths  the  storm-cloud  drew; 

Go  and  ask  them  who  it  was 
Turned  from  me  my  lover  true. 

*  *  * 
Dainty  is  the  frock  I  wear. 
Bright  the  gauze  upon  my  hair: 

Since  my  love  is  coy  with  me, 
I'll  be  coy,  and  will  not  care ! 
68 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    TEARS   OF  ARAXES 

By  RAPHAEL  PATKANIAN 

I  WALK  by  Mother  Arax 

With  faltering  steps  and  slow. 

And  memories  of  past  ages 
Seek  in  the  waters'  flow. 

But  they  run  dark  and  turbid. 

And  beat  upon  the  shore 
In  grief  and  bitter  sorrow. 

Lamenting  evermore. 

"  Araxes  !   with  the  fishes 

Why  dost  not  dance  in  glee  f" 

The  sea  is  still  far  distant. 
Yet  thou  art  sad,  like  me. 

"  From  thy  proud  eyes,  O  Mother, 
Why  do  the  tears  downpour?" 

Why  dost  thou  haste  so  swiftly 
Past  thy  familiar  shores' 

"  Make  not  thy  current  turbid ; 

Flow  calm  and  joyously. 
Thy  youth  is  short,  fair  river; 

Thou  soon  wilt  reach  the  sea. 

"  Let  sweet  rose-hedges  brighten 

Thy  hospitable  shore. 
And  nightingales  among  them 

Till  morn  their  music  pour. 
69 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"  Let  ever-verdant  willows 

Lave  in  thy  waves  their  feet^ 

And  with  their  bending  branches 
Refresh  the  noonday  heat. 

"  Let  shepherds  on  thy  margin 

Walk  singing,  without  fear ; 
Let  lambs  and  kids  seek  freely 

Thy  waters  cool  and  clear/' 

Araxes  swelled  her  current. 

Tossed  high  her  foaming  tide, 

And  in  a  voice  of  thunder 

Thus  from  her  depths  replied : — 

"  Rash,  thoughtless  youth,  why  com'st  thou 

My  age-long  sleep  to  break. 
And  memories  of  my  myriad  griefs 

Within  my  breast  to  wake  i 

*'  When  hast  thou  seen  a  widow. 

After  her  true-love  died. 
From  head  to  foot  resplendent 

With  ornaments  of  pride  S* 

"  For  whom  should  I  adorn  me  s* 
Whose  eyes  shall  I  delight  5* 

The  stranger  hordes  that  tread  my  banks 
Are  hateful  in  my  sight. 

**  My  kindred  stream,  impetuous  Kur, 

Is  widowed,  like  to  me. 
But  bows  beneath  the  tyrant's  yoke. 

And  wears  it  slavishly. 


Armenian  Legends  and   Poems 

"  But  I,  who  am  Armenian, 
My  own  Armenians  know ; 

I  want  no  stranger  bridegroom ; 
A  widowed  stream  I  flow. 

"  Once  I,  too,  moved  in  splendour. 

Adorned  as  is  a  bride 
With  myriad  precious  jewels. 

My  smiling  banks  beside. 

"  My  waves  were  pure  and  limpid, 
And  curled  in  rippling  play ; 

The  morning  star  within  them 
Was  mirrored  till  the  day. 

"  What  from  that  time  remaineth  s* 
All,  all  has  passed  away. 

Which  of  my  prosperous  cities 
Stands  near  my  waves  to-day  J* 

"  Mount  Ararat  doth  pour  me. 
As  with  a  mother's  care, 

From  out  her  sacred  bosom 
Pure  water,  cool  and  fair. 

"  Shall  I  her  holy  bounty 

To  hated  aliens  fling  S" 
Shall  strangers'  fields  be  watered 

From  good  Saint  Jacob's  spring  ^ 

"  For  filthy  Turk  or  Persian 
Shall  I  my  waters  pour. 

That  they  may  heathen  rites  perform 
Upon  my  very  shore, 
71 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"  While  my  own  sons,  defenceless, 
Are  exiled  from  their  home. 

And,  faint  with  thirst  and  hunger, 
In  distant  countries  roams' 

"  My  own  Armenian  nation 

Is  banished  far  away ; 
A  godless,  barbarous  people 

Dwells  on  my  banks  to-day. 

"  Shall  I  my  hospitable  shores 

Adorn  in  festive  guise 
For  them,  or  gladden  with  fair  looks 

Their  wild  and  evil  eyes  ?" 

"  Still,  while  my  sons  are  exiled. 

Shall  I  be  sad,  as  now. 
This  is  my  heart's  deep  utterance, 

My  true  and  holy  vow." 

No  more  spake  Mother  Arax; 

She  foamed  up  mightily. 
And,  coiling  like  a  serpent. 

Wound  sorrowing  toward  the  sea. 


Translated  by  Alice  Stone  BlackwelL 


Armenian  Legends  and   Poems 

THE    EVE   OF   ASCENSION    DAY' 

By  DERENIK  DEMIRJIAN 

Night  with  her  ebon  hair  and  starry  crown 

Upon  the  hills  came  down. 
Her  loosened  tresses  floated  all  unbound 

And  veiled  her  form  around. 

The  fountain  murmured  like  an  endless  tale 
On  her  entrancing  lips ;    and  it  would  seem 

As  if  God  spake  within  the  silent  vale, 
And  sleeping  Earth  were  listening,  in  a  dream. 

Like  blackened  clouds,  in  Jorokh's  stream  arise 
Those  rocks  that  through  her  savage  waters  pierce ; 

Like  dragons  twain,  they  glare  with  threatening  eyes, 
Facing  each  other,  arrogant  and  fierce. 

Wild  Jorokh  through  that  fearsome  valley  flows — 
Flows  like  a  caravan  that  onward  sweeps ; 

First  roaring  loud,  then  hushed  into  repose, 
Groping  its  way  through  darkness,  on  it  creeps. 

The  sounds  of  Earth  are  melted  into  rest. 
While  strikes  the  hour  of  expectation  deep ; 

Earth's  waters  heave,  against  each  other  pressed. 
And  breathless  listening,  all  their  vigils  keep. 

Decked  out  like  lovely  brides  stand  all  the  flowers; 

With  nuptial  joy  the  forests  trembling  wait: 
Until  Heaven's  blessing  fall  in  sacred  showers. 

And  whispering  softly,  each  may  clasp  its  mate. 

'  The  Eve  of  Ascension  Day  is  the  time  when  betrothals  are  arranged  and  destinies  decided. 
73 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"THY   VOICE    IS  SWEET" 

By  SAYAT  nova 

Thy  voice  is  soft,  thy  speech  all  sweetness  flows; 
May  he  protect  who  hath  thy  heart,  my  love  ! 
Thy  waist  is  the  gazelle's,  thy  hue  the  rose. 
Brocade  from  Franguistan  thou  art,  my  love! 

If  I  compare  thee  to  brocade,  'twill  fray; 
If  to  a  plane-tree,  'twill  be  felled  one  day ; 
All  girls  are  likened  to  gazelles  thou'lt  say — 
How  then  shall  I  describe  thee  truly,  loves' 

The  violet  is  wild,  and  low  of  birth ; 
Rubies  are  stones,  for  all  their  priceless  worth : 
The  moon  itself  is  made  of  rocks  and  earth — 
All  flame,  thou  shinest  like  the  sun,  my  love. 

Thy  door  I  seek  as  pilgrims  seek  a  shrine: 
Thine  eyes  are  roses,  new-blown  eglantine ; 
Thy  tongue  a  pen,  thy  hands  like  paper  fine, 
A  flower  fresh  from  the  sea  thou  art,  my  love! 

Within  my  soul  thy  hand  has  placed  love's  seed ; 
Thy  wiles  and  coyness  make  my  heart  to  bleed : 
Thy  Sayat  Nova  thou  hast  slain  indeed. 
Thine  evil  fate  he  bears  for  thee,  my  love. 


/  f^^if  y^^is^A^  "^l^"^  ]#f 


Christ's  Letter  to  Abgarus 

"  And  after  My  ascension  I  will  send  thee  one 
of  My  disciples,  that  he  may  heal  thee  from  thy 
disease,  and  give  Life  unto  thee  and  to  ±em  that 
are  with  thee." 

Moies  of  Khorene, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

CHRIST   AND   ABGARUS 

From  the  History  of  Armenia, 
by 

MOSES  OF  KHORENE 
Abgar  the  son  of  Arsham  began  to  reign  in  the  twentieth  year  of  the  reign  of  Arshavr  King 
of  Persia.  This  Abgar  was  called  the  Great  Man  because  of  his  exceeding  meekness  and 
wisdom.  In  the  third  year  of  his  reign  the  whole  of  Armenia  fell  under  the  jurisdiction  of 
Rome.  .  .  .  Therefore  the  Romans  sent  commissioners  unto  the  land  of  Armenia  who 
brought  the  image  of  Caesar  and  placed  it  in  all  the  temples. 

At  this  time  was  born  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God. 

And  there  was  a  dispute  between  Abgar  and  Herod.  For  Herod  commanded  that  his 
image  also  should  be  placed  in  the  temples  of  Armenia,  with  that  of  Caesar ;  to  which  Abgar 
not  acceding,  the  anger  of  Herod  was  kindled  against  him.  And  he  sent  his  brother's  son 
with  a  great  army  against  him.  And  Abgar  met  and  fought  him ;  and  he  was  slain  in  the 
battle  and  his  army  fled. 

Soon  after  these  things  Augustus  died,  and  Tiberius  reigned  over  the  Roman  Empire ; 
and  Germanicus  sent  messengers  from  Rome  unto  Arshavr  and  Abgar  concerning  the  battle 
in  which  Herod's  brother's  son  was  slain.  Whereupon  Abgar  was  displeased,  and  thought  to 
prepare  for  revolt  and  war.  Then  did  he  build  the  city  of  Edessa  wherein  to  keep  the  hosts  of 
Armenia,  and  removed  thither  his  court  from  Mdzpin,  with  all  his  idols  :  Nebog,  Bel,  Bat- 
nikol,  and  Tarata ;  also  with  the  Royal  Palace  he  removed  the  books  of  the  schools  belonging 
to  the  temples. 

But  strife  had  arisen  between  his  kinsmen  of  the  reigning  house  of  Persia,  and  Abgar 
collected  his  armies  and  went  to  reconcile  and  pacify  them.  And  having  settled  their  disputes 
he  returned  home  ;  not  sound  in  his  body,  but  tormented  with  a  painful  disease. 

At  that  time  Marinus  was  governor  over  Phoenicia,  Palestine,  Assyria,  and  Mesopotamia, 
And  Abgarus  sent  two  of  his  notables  unto  him  to  show  him  the  treaty  of  peace  between 
Arshavr  and  his  brother  (for  the  Romans  suspected  that  he  had  been  to  Persia  to  collect  armies 
against  them).  And  Marinus  received  them  with  peace  and  great  honour,  sending  word  unto 
Abgarus,  "  Fear  nothing,  only  hasten  to  raise  all  the  taxes." 

And  on  their  return  the  messengers  went  up  to  Jerusalem  to  see  our  Saviour  Christ,  having 
heard  of  His  wonderful  deeds. 

75 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

And  when  they  had  seen  Him  with  their  own  eyes  they  returned  and  told  Abgar ;  at  which 
the  king  marvelled^  and  believed  Him  to  be  the  very  Son  of  God.  And  because  His  body  was 
tormented  with  a  painful  disease  contracted  in  the  land  of  Persia  seven  years  before,  and  he  was 
not  able  to  find  any  cure  by  men,  he  sent  unto  Him  a  letter  asking  Him  to  come  and  heal  him 
of  his  disease. 

The  Letter  of  Abgarus  to  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ, 

"  Abgarus,  a  prince  of  the  world,  unto  Jesus,  the  Saviour  and  Benefactor,  Who  hast 
appeared  in  the  City  of  Jerusalem,  greetings, 

"  I  have  heard  of  Thee  and  of  the  healings  wrought  by  Thy  hands,  without  drugs  and 
without  roots ;  for  it  is  said  that  Thou  givest  sight  to  the  blind.  Thou  makest  the  lame  to  walk, 
and  Thou  cleansest  the  lepers ;  Thou  curest  those  who  have  been  long  tormented  by  diseases, 
and  raisest  even  the  dead.  And  when  I  heard  all  this  concerning  Thee  I  thought  that  either 
Thou  art  God  come  down  from  Heaven  that  workest  these  things,  or  the  Son  of  God.  I  have 
written  unto  Thee  that  Thou  shouldest  trouble  Thyself  to  come  unto  me,  and  heal  me  of  my 
disease.  I  have  heard  also  that  the  Jews  murmur  against  Thee,  and  think  to  torture  Thee. 
My  city  is  a  small  one,  but  it  is  beautiful,  and  it  is  sufficient  for  us  twain." 

And  taking  the  letter  they  found  Him  in  Jerusalem.  And  unto  this  the  gospel  beareth 
witness,  saying :  "  There  were  some  amongst  the  heathen  that  came  up  to  Him."  But  our 
Saviour  did  not  undertake  to  come  at  the  time  when  they  called  Him,  but  made  Abgarus 
worthy  of  a  letter  thus. 

The  Answer  to  the  Letter  of  Abgarus,  written  at  the  command  of  our  Saviour  by  the 

Apostle  Thomas, 
"  Blessed  is  he  who  believeth  on  Me  though  he  hath  not  seen  Me.  For  it  is  written  con- 
cerning Me  thus  :  '  They  that  have  seen  Me  believed  not  on  Me,  but  they  that  have  not  seen 
Me  shall  believe  and  live.'  And  concerning  that  which  thou  hast  written  unto  Me  to  come 
down  unto  thee,  it  is  needful  that  I  fulfil  all  that  for  which  I  was  sent ;  and  when  I  have 
fulfilled  it  I  will  ascend  unto  Him  that  sent  Me.  And  after  My  ascension  I  will  send  one 
of  My  disciples,  who  shall  heal  thee  of  thy  disease,  and  give  Life  unto  thee  and  unto  all  them 
that  are  with  thee." 

This  letter  did  Anan  the  messenger  bring  unto  Abgarus,  with  the  Image  of  the  Saviour, 
which  remaineth  in  the  dty  of  Edessa  until  this  day. 

76 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

ARAXES    CAME    DEVOURINGLY 

By  HOVHANNES  HOVHANNESSIAN 

Araxes  came  devouringly, 
Swept  o'er  her  boulders  scouringly — 
Where  shall  I  lay  my  aching  head 
Bowed  down  with  grief  o'erpoweringly  i 

Oh  my  Araxes,  flow  serene ; — 
Tell  me,  hast  thou  my  sweet  love  seen  i 
My  heart's  desire  is  unfulfilled ; — 
Arax,  hast  thou  more  happy  been  i 

Mount  Ararat  with  clouds  is  veiled, 
My  love  is  lost,  my  hope  has  failed. 
For  pity's  sake  an  answer  give 
To  my  sad  heart  with  grief  assailed. 

I  sob  and  weep  the  livelong  night ; 
Till  dawn  I  watch — I  watch  and  write; 
Arax,  ere  sunrise  gild  thy  waves 
To  thee  I  bring  my  spirit's  blight. 

Upon  the  rocks  the  sunbeams  dart. 
Red  flames  devotur  my  mourning  heart ; 
Those  eyes  and  brows  have  left  with  me 
A  sorrow  which  shall  ne'er  depart. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    PARROT'S   SONG 

By  RAFFI 

(1837-1888) 

With  nuts  and  sweets  and  dainty  fare, 

My  lady  feeds  me  oft. 
She  decks  my  cage  with  tender  care. 

And  hands  so  white  and  soft. 

But  not  a  moment's  joy  can  give 
This  pampering  care  to  me, 

Since  as  a  prisoner  here  I  live, 
In  gilded  misery. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

EARTH  AND  SKY 

By   HOVHANNES   TOUMANIAN 

The  Sky  bent  down  his  piercing  gaze  one  day 
On  Mother  Earth,  that  far  beneath  him  lay. 
And  as  he  looked  on  mountain,  sea,  and  grove. 
On  hill  and  dale,  he  burnt  with  thoughts  of  love. 

Earth  lying  numbed  and  frozen  'neath  the  snow, 
Sudden  awoke  to  springtime's  ardent  glow. 
And  flames  of  fire  her  beating  heart  consumed. 
While  myriad  flowers  the  air  around  perfumed. 

And  thus  they  loved,  though  never  side  by  side, 
Though  Nature  willed  they  should  be  parted  wide — 
The  Earth  and  Sky. 

But  when  has  love  accepted  with  content 
An  obstacle?'    When  o'er  the  earth  steals  night. 
The  starry  Sky,  his  vision  downward  bent. 
Opens  his  thousand  eyes  of  shining  light. 
And  gazes  on  his  love  in  worship  still. 
Gazes  till  dawn,  and  cannot  take  his  fill. 

And  as  he  gazes,  all  his  starry  eyes 
Are  strewn  into  Earth's  breast  of  waters  blue, 
Which  foam,  and  heave,  and  swell,  and  strive  to  rise. 
Longing  to  reach  and  join  her  lover  true. 

He,  more  and  more  inflamed  by  passion's  fire. 
In  all  the  splendours  of  the  night  arrayed. 
Pours  in  her  ear  his  longing  and  desire. 
And  shows  her  all  his  pomp  and  pride  displayed ; 

Towards  her  turning 

And  ever  yearning. 
79 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

But  when  he  finds  his  love  is  out  of  reach 

He  turns  away^  nor  utters  sound  nor  speech; 

And  in  the  dark  the  tears  that  dim  his  sight 

Fall  on  earth's  cheeks  in  showers  of  dewdrops  bright^ — 

Dewdrops  of  pearl — the  tears  that  heaven  weeps^ 

And  then  Earth's  bosom  swells.      Her  thousand  deeps. 

Her  boundless  oceans,  rise  once  more  to  meet 

The  far-off  loved  one ;   and  her  mountain  peaks 

Like  myriad  lips  rise  up  the  clouds  to  greet, — 

To  kiss  their  gloomy  forms,  and  sullen  cheeks. 

And  love  torments  her  with  its  ceaseless  fire. 
Her  waters  foam,  and  writhe,  and  are  convulsed. 
Yet  never  may  they  reach  their  heart's  desire, — 
Restlessly  sobbing,  ever  more  repulsed. 

And  from  her  gloomy  throne, 

Behind  the  clouds,  alone. 
The  moon  beheld  it  with  her  sleepless  eye. 
And  told  the  Poet  how  she  did  espy 
That  in  the  darkness  of  the  silent  night 
Earth  heaved  her  bosom  up  to  Heaven  above; 
And  that  the  sky  smiled  on  her  with  delight. 
As  they  exchanged  the  secret  kiss  of  love; 
And  for  each  other  sweetest  songs  they  sing 
And  they  embrace  each  other  and  caress. 
Like  living  souls,  each  other  gladdening. 

Then  on  the  Poet  fell  a  deep  distress, 
A  jealous  sorrow — for  he  fain  would,  too. 
Possess  a  love  as  noble  and  as  true. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

O'ER  THE 
MOUNTAINS    HIGH    HE   WENT 

FOLK  SONG 

O'er  the  mountains  high  he  went^ 

Love,  love  ! 

In  the  meadows  above 

I  seek  for  my  love. 
With  a  weary  sigh  he  went. 

Love,  love  ! 

To  fight  thou  art  gone 

While  I  stay  here  alone. 

Neither  quail  nor  partridge  stirred. 

Love,  love  ! 

In  the  meadows  above 

I  look  for  my  love 
And  he  left  without  a  word. 

Love,  love  ! 

To  fight  thou  art  gone 

While  I  stay  here  alone. 

Like  a  flower's  fragrance  sweet 
He  came  past,  and  vanished  fleet. 
I  beheld  him  and  I  loved — 
But  we  never  more  shall  meet. 

When  my  lover  rode  away 

Not  a  farewell  did  I  say ; 

None  there  is  to  help  him  now — 
Sourb  Carapet,'  bless  his  way ! 

'  The  patron  saint  of  lovers. 

8i 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

COMPLAINTS 

By  BEDROS  TOURIAN 

Farewell,  thou  Sun,  and  Thou,  O  Power  Divine, 

That  far  above  my  spirit  dimly  shine. 

I  go  to  add  another  star  to  heaven: — 

For  what  are  stars,  but  anguished  curses,  riven 

From  innocent  and  hapless  souls,  that  fly 

To  burn  the  brow  of  Heaven  i   and  they  supply 

Fresh  armaments,  and  jewels  fiery  red. 

To  God,  the  source  of  lightning  flashes  dread ! 

Alas,  what  do  I  says'    Send  forth  thy  fires, 
O  God !    Consume  this  brain  that  thus  aspires 
To  soar,  and  dares  to  pierce  the  depths  of  heaven ; 
And  e'en  to  climb  unto  the  stars  has  striven ! 

Creator  of  our  trembling  beings,  hail  I 

Of  light  and  youth,  of  age  when  forces  fail ; 

Thou  that  the  roses  from  my  brow  hast  wrenched. 

Hast  stilled  my  trembling  lips,  my  longings  quenched ; 

Mist  to  mine  eyes  hast  given,  sobs  to  my  breath: — 

Yet  thou  hast  sworn  to  smile  on  me  in  death ! 

Ah,  surely  thou  hast  kept  for  me  a  life 

Of  fragrance,  light,  and  prayer  beyond  this  strife ! 

But  if  my  latest  breath  must  perish  here 

All  silently,  in  this  dark  atmosphere — 

From  now  a  flash  of  lightning  I  would  be. 

Coiled  round  thy  name,  and,  murmuring  ceaselessly, 

A  curse  I  would  become  to  pierce  Thy  side — 

God,  the  Arch  Enemy,  I  would  deride ! 

Ah  me,  I  tremble,  and  am  pale  as  death. 

My  brain  seethes  like  a  hell;   a  sobbing  breath 


Armenian  Legends   and  Poems 

I  am  amongst  the  mournful  cypress  trees, 
An  autumn  leaf  soon  wafted  by  the  breeze ! 

Oh,  I  would  live ! — give  me  of  life  one  spark ! 
To  dream — ^and  then  embrace  the  grave  so  dark  S* 
My  God,  how  black  is  this  decree  of  doom 
Writ  in  the  lees  of  dread  sepulchral  gloom ! 
Oh,  give  my  soul  one  drop  of  living  fire — 
To  love — and  live  for  ever  I  desire  ! 
Ye  stars  of  heaven,  into  my  spirit  fall. 
There  live,  and  hear  your  hapless  lover  call ! 

To  my  pale  brow  the  springtime  brings  no  rose. 
No  smile  for  me  in  this  world's  sunbeams  glows. 
Night  is  my  coffin,  stars  for  lights  flame  round. 
The  moon  all  weeping  seeks  my  funeral  mound. 
There  are  some  men  for  whom  no  mourners  sigh- 
It  was  for  them  He  placed  that  moon  on  high; 
And  he  that  to  death's  portals  draweth  near 
First  life  would  have — and  then  a  mourner's  tear. 

In  vain  the  stars  of  heaven  spelt  "  Love  "  for  me 
And  nightingales  explained  its  mystery. 
In  vain  of  Love  I  learnt  to  know  the  truth. 
And  crystal  waves  reflected  back  my  youth. 
In  vain  the  forest  silent  lay  around — 
The  secret  leaves  gave  forth  no  breath  or  sound ; 
They  would  not  break  upon  my  reverie — 
They  let  me  dream  of  Love  eternally. 
All,  all  in  vain  I  saw  the  flowers  of  spring 
Their  incense  to  my  dreams'  fair  altar  bring ; 
With  their  delights  they  all  have  mocked  at  me — 
And  all  the  world  is  but  God's  mockery ! 

83 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 

A    DAY    AFTER 

By  BEDROS  TOURIAN 

Slumbering  darkly  yesterday, 

As  in  deathly  sweats  I  lay, 

And  two  roses  fiery  red 

On  my  faded  cheeks  were  spread — 

On  my  brow  perchance  a  ray 

Of  Death's  pallor  trembling  lay. 

And  I  prayed  and  longed  for  death. 

Then  I  heard  a  sobbing  breath  .  .  , 

I  unclosed  my  weary  eyes 

And  beheld  my  mother's  tears — 

Saw  those  priceless  pearls  arise, 

Tokens  of  her  love,  her  fears. 

In  her  heart  what  grief  she  bore ! 

And  I  was  that  anguish  sore. 

Ah,  I  raged  tempestuously, 

That  black  torrent  outward  leapt ' : — 

God  of  mercy,  pardon  me. 

For  the  tears  my  mother  wept ! 

■  The  poem  entitled  "  Complaints,"  written  a  few  days  before  his  death. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


WITHOUT  THEE 
WHAT  ARE  SONG  AND  DANCE  TO  ME? 

By  SAYAT  nova 

Without  thee  what  are  song  and  dance  to  mes* 
The  castagnettes  I  throw  down  wearily. 
My  heart  and  thoughts  are  ever  filled  with  thee, 
So  rhymes  and  verses  leave  me,  one  by  one. 

How  can  one  bandage  serve  for  gashes  twain  < 
How  on  two  masters  wait  a  single  swain  i 
Would  not  one  gardener  tend  two  groves  in  vain  i 
For  he  must  graft  the  saplings  one  by  one. 

Well  said  our  fathers,  speaking  of  such  woes, 
"  I  made  a  garden,  others  plucked  the  rose. 
Theirs  was  the  sweetness,  mine  the  thorny  close." 
In  sooth  these  things  befell  me  one  by  one ! 

Without  thee  what  are  riches  unto  me  S* 
What  worth  could  I  in  silks  or  cashmeres  sees' 
Arrayed  in  rags  and  sackcloth  I  would  be. 
Wandering  around  the  convents,  one  by  one. 

To  meet  perchance  with  some  one,  who  might  tell, 
My  fair  one,  how  to  free  me  from  thy  spell ; 
For  Sayat  Nova's  torments  far  excel 
The  Seven  Wise  Men's  complaints  told  one  by  one! 
85 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    LAKE   OF   VAN 

By  RAFFI 

Unutterable  silence  here  is  spread 

On  every  hand,  and  Nature  might  be  dead. 

A  lonely  exile,  here  I  sit  and  weep, 

And  far  above,  bright  Moon,  I  see  thee  sweep. 

From  Earth's  creation  till  the  skies  shall  parch 
And  she  dissolve,  thou  circlest  Heaven's  high  arch : 
Saw'st  thou  the  laurels  on  Armenia's  brow  i 
And  dost  behold  her  hopeless  sorrows  nowS' 

Mournful  as  I !     I  wonder  dost  thou  see 
How  she  is  ground  by  heels  of  tyranny  ! 
And  do  thine  eyes  with  bitter  tear-drops  smart 
When  barbed  arrows  pierce  her  through  the  heart 

Thy  heart  is  stone,  thy  pity  stark  and  cold. 
For  fields  of  innocent  blood  thou  dost  behold 
Without  a  word,  and  o'er  Armenia's  land 
Thy  nightly  compass  of  the  dome  hast  spanned 
With  all  the  brightness  that  was  thine  of  old. 

O  Lake,  make  answer  !    Why  be  silent  more  < 
Wilt  not  lament  with  one  whose  heart  is  sore  5" 
And  you,  ye  Zephyrs,  hurl  the  waters  high 
That  I  may  feed  them  from  a  mourner's  eye ! 


The  Lake  of  Van 

*  Cleanse  from  thy  lute  the  rust  that  soils  its  string ; 
Hasten  thee  back,  and,  as  thou  goest,  sing 
Such  gladsome  lays  as  yet  may  re-inspire 
Hearts  that  are  dead  with  ever  tameless  fire. 
His  Will  is  done ;   the  time  is  here.    The  Day 
Dawns ;  and  the  Morning  Star,  so  God  doth  say. 
Shall  be  thy  sign." 

Raffi, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

A  garden  once,  luxuriantly  fair. 
Now  is  Armenia  choked  with  thorn  and  tare : 
Thou  who  hast  seen  her  fortunes  wax  and  wane, 
Tell  me,  I  pray  thee  !    Must  she  thus  remain  < 

Must  this  unhappy  nation  ever  be 
By  foreign  princes  held  in  slavery  S" 
Is  the  Armenian  and  his  stricken  race 
Counted  unworthy  in  God's  judgment-place  S* 

Comes  there  a  day,  comes  there  a  season  that 

Shall  hail  a  flag  on  topmost  Ararat, 

Calling  Armenians,  wheresoe'er  they  roam. 

To  seek  once  more  their  loved  and  beauteous  home  i 

Hard  tho'  it  be,  O  heavenly  Ruler,  raise 
Armenia's  spirit,  and  her  heart's  dark  ways 
Light  with  Thy  knowledge  :   understanding  so 
The  mystery  of  life,  her  works  shall  show 
That  all  she  does  is  ordered  to  Thy  praise. 


Then  suddenly  the  surface  of  the  lake 
Grew  luminous,  and  from  its  depths  did  break 
A  lovely  maid  that  bore  a  lantern  and 
A  lyre  of  shining  ivory  in  her  hand. 
Was  she  an  Angel  in  a  strange  disguise?* 
Was  she  a  Houri  fled  from  Paradise  i 
Nay,  rather  was  she  of  the  form  and  hue 
Of  the  Armenian  Muses  ! 

"  Tell  me  true, 
O  Muse,"  I  cried,  "  our  people's  destiny ! 
Speak  of  the  Now  and  of  the  Yet-to-be ! " 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Then  the  sweet  heavenly  Spirit  made  reply, 

**  Wipe,  O  sad  youth,  the  salt  tears  from  thine  eye ! 

I  bring  glad  tidings :   better  days  shall  break. 

New  days  of  joy,  that  carry  in  their  wake 

The  reign  of  God,  Whose  will  is  free  and  just : 

A  Golden  Age  again  shall  gild  the  dust ! 

"  Armenia's  Muses  shall  awake  anew. 
And  her  Parnassus  bloom  with  vernal  hue. 
And  the  bright  car  Apollo  whirls  on  high 
ShaU  sweep  the  shadows  from  her  clouded  sky. 

**  For  many  a  day,  like  thee,  we  mourned  aloud 
While  the  thick  darkness  wrapped  her  in  its  shroud : 
Now,  O  belovfed,  may  the  weeping  cease, — 
To  us  has  come  the  olive  branch  of  peace ! 

"  Cleanse  from  thy  lute  the  rust  that  soils  its  string ; 

Hasten  thee  back,  and,  as  thou  goest,  sing 

Such  joyful  lays  as  yet  may  re-inspire 

Hearts  that  are  dead  with  new  and  tameless  fire. 

His  Will  is  done ;    the  Time  is  here ;    the  Day 

Dawns ;   and  the  Morning  Star,  so  God  doth  say. 

Shall  be  thy  sign." 

Then  darkness  fell  again ; 
The  vision  fled;   but  long  there  did  remain 
An  echo  of  the  thrilling  voice,  that  blended 
With  the  wild  waves  whose  depths  she  had  descended ; 
And  flowery  perfumes  filled  the  air  like  rain. 

O  message  dear,  and  sweet  prophetic  strain ! 
What  happiness  is  come  to  us, — but  Oh ! 
Beautiful  Muse,  yet  one  thing  would  we  know — 
Can  a  dead  corpse  rise  up  and  live  again  f" 

Translated  by  G.  M.  Green, 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


SPRING 

By  MUGGURDICH  BESHIGTASHLIAN 

(1829-1868) 

O  LITTLE  breeze,  how  fresh  and  sweet 

Thou  blowest  in  the  morning  air ! 

Upon  the  flowers  caressingly, 

And  on  the  gentle  maiden's  hair. 

But  not  my  country's  breath  thou  art : 

Blow  elsewhere,  come  not  near  my  heart! 

O  little  bird  among  the  trees. 
The  sweetness  of  thy  joyful  voice 
Entrances  all  the  Hours  of  Love, 
And  makes  the  listening  woods  rejoice. 
But  not  my  country's  bird  thou  art : 
Sing  elsewhere,  come  not  near  my  heart ! 

How  peacefully  thou  murmurest, 
O  gentle,  limpid  little  brook; 
Within  thy  mirror  crystal-bright 
The  rose  and  maiden  bend  to  look. 
But  not  my  country's  brook  thou  art : 
Flow  elsewhere — come  not  near  my  heart ! 

Although  Armenia's  breeze  and  bird 
Above  a  land  of  ruins  fly ; 
Although  through  mourning  cypress  groves 
Armenia's  turbid  stream  flows  by, — 
They  are  the  sighing  of  her  heart. 
And  never  shall  from  mine  depart! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE    FOX 

FOLK  SONG 

The  fox  ran  up  into  the  mill. 

He  raised  his  paws,  and  danced  his  fill. 

Brave  Master  Fox,  'tis  but  your  due. 
In  all  the  world  there's  none  like  you ! 

A  peck  of  corn  he  ground  that  day. 
Which  on  his  back  he  bore  away. 

He  ate  the  village  chickens  brown, 
And  trod  the  upland  cornfields  down. 

The  fox  lies  on  his  shaggy  side. 

His  paws  stretched  out  before  him  wide. 

Sable  and  fox  this  fall  we'll  catch. 
And  for  my  son  I'll  make  a  match. 

Alas,  this  year  no  price  they  made : — 
My  Hovhannes  unmarried  stayed ! 


The  Vision  of  Rosiphelee,  Princess  of  Armenia 


"  Sche  syh  comende  vnder  j^e  linde 
A  womman  vp  an  hors  behinde. 
The  hors  on  which  sche  rod  was  blak, 
Al  lene  and  galled  on  ]>Q  back." 

John  Gower. 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 

THE   TALE   OF    ROSIPHELEE 

From  the  "  Confessio  Amantis  '*  by 

JOHN  GOWER 

{Died  1408) 

Of  Armenye,  I  rede  ]nis, 
Ther  was  a  king,  which  Herupus 
Was  hote,  and  he  a  lusti  Maide 
To  dowhter  hadde,  and  as  men  saide 
Hire  name  was  Rosiphelee; 
Which  ^o  was  of  gret  renomee, 
ffor  sche  was  boJ>e  wys  and  fair. 
And  scholde  ben  hire  fader  hair. 
Bot  sche  hadde  o  defalte  of  SlowJ'e 
Towardes  loue,  and  ]?at  was  row^ej 
ffor  so  wel  cowde  noman  seie. 
Which  mihte  sette  hire  in  j^e  weie 
Of  loues  occupacion 
Thurgh  non  ymaginacion; 
That  scole  wolde  sche  noght  knowe. 
And  Jnis  sche  was  on  of  ^t  slowe 
As  of  such  hertes  besinesse. 
Til  whanne  Venus  J'e  goddesse. 
Which  loues  court  ha]?  forto  reule. 
Ha]?  broght  hire  into  betre  reule, 
fforJ>  wi}>  Cupide  and  wij?  his  miht : 
ffor  l?ei  merueille  how  such  a  wiht. 
Which  ]?o  was  in  hir  lusti  age, 
Desire]?  nother  Mariage 
Ne  3it  ]?e  loue  of  paramours. 
Which  euere  ha]?  be  ]?e  comvn  cours 
91 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Amonges  hem  Tf>at  lusti  were. 
So  was  it  schewed  after  ]?ere : 
ffor  he  J'at  hihe  hertes  lowe]? 
Wi)?  fyri  Dartes  whiche  he  Jrowe]?, 
Cupide,  which  of  loue  is  godd, 
In  chastisinge  ha]?  mad  a  rodd 
To  dryue  awei  hir  wantounesse ; 
So  J'at  wij>inne  a  while^  I  gesse, 
Sche  hadde  on  such  a  chance  sporned. 
That  al  hire  mod  was  ouertorned^ 
Which  ferst  sche  hadde  of  slow  manere  : 
ffor  Inis  it  fell^  as  )?ou  schalt  hiere. 
Whan  come  was  ]>e  Mon>>e  of  Maii, 
Sche  wolde  walke  vpon  a  dai, 
And  J'at  was  er  pe  Sonne  Ariste ; 
Of  wommen  hot  a  fewe  it  wiste. 
And  fori?  sche  wente  priuely 
Vnto  l?e  Park  was  faste  by^ 
Al  softe  walkende  on  l^e  gras, 
Til  sche  cam  J'er  J'e  Launde  was, 
Thurgh  which  ]?er  ran  a  gret  riuere. 
It  J'oghte  hir  fair,  and  seide.  Here 
I  wole  abide  vnder  J^e  schawe : 
And  bad  hire  wommen  to  wij^drawe. 
And  J'er  sche  stod  al  one  stille. 
To  }>enke  what  was  in  hir  wiUe. 
Sche  sih  >>e  swote  fioures  springe, 
Sche  herde  glade  foules  singe, 
Sche  sih  ]?e  bestes  in  her  kinde. 
The  buck,  J'e  do,  ]?e  hert,  J'e  hinde. 
The  madle  go  wij*  >e  femele ; 
And  so  began  J'er  a  querele 
Betwen  loue  and  hir  oghne  herte, 
ffro  which  sche  coxijfe  noght  asterte, 

93 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

And  as  sche  caste  hire  yhe  aboute, 
Sche  syh  clad  in  o  suite  a  route 
Of  ladis,  wher  fd  comen  ryde 
Along  vnder  J'e  wodes  syde. 
On  faire  amblende  hors  J>ei  sete, 
That  were  al  whyte,  fatte  and  grete. 
And  euerichon  J'ei  ride  on  side : 
The  Sadies  were  of  such  a  Pride, 
Wi>>  Perle  and  gold  so  wel  begon. 
So  riche  syh  sche  neuere  non : 
In  kertles  and  in  G)pes  riche 
Thei  weren  cloj'ed,  alle  liche. 
Departed  euene  of  whyt  and  blew ; 
Wi)?  alle  lustes  J-at  sche  knew 
Thei  were  enbrouded  oueral. 
Here  bodies  weren  long  and  smal, 
The  beaute  faye  vpon  her  face 
Non  erj'ly  J'ing  it  may  desface ; 
Corones  on  here  hed  >>ei  beere. 
As  ech  of  hem  a  qweene  weere, 
That  al  J'e  gold  of  Cresus  halle 
The  leste  coronal  of  alle 
Ne  mihte  haue  boght  after  J^'e  wor}> : 
Thus  come  yd  ridende  for]?. 

The  kinges  dowhter,  which  ]ns  syh, 
ffor  pure  abaissht  drowh  hire  adryh 
And  hield  hire  clos  vnder  J'e  bowh. 
And  let  hem  passen  stille  ynowh ; 
ffor  as  hire  l^oghte  in  hire  avis. 
To  hem  J>at  were  of  such  a  pris 
Sche  was  noght  worji  axen  >ere, 
ffro  when  J>ei  come  or  what  ]>ei  were. 
Bot  leuere  l?an  Ifns  worldes  good 
Sche  wolde  haue  wist  hou  >>at  it  stod, 
93 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

And  putte  hire  hed  alitel  oute ; 
And  as  sche  lokede  hire  aboute^ 
Sche  syh  comende  vnder  J^e  linde 
A  womman  vp  an  hors  behinde. 
The  hors  on  which  sche  rod  was  blak, 
Al  lene  and  galled  on  J'e  back, 
And  haltede,  as  he  were  encluyed, 
Wherof  ]?e  womman  was  annvied  j 
Thus  was  J'e  hors  in  sori  plit, 
Bot  for  al  J'at  a  sterre  whit 
Amiddes  in  Tf>e  front  he  hadde. 
Hir  Sadel  ek  was  wonder  badde, 
In  which  ]?e  wofuU  womman  sat, 
And  natheles  J-er  was  wip  J'at 
A  riche  bridel  for  J'e  nones 
Of  gold  and  preciouse  Stones. 
Hire  cote  was  somdiel  totore ; 
Aboute  hir  middel  twenty  score 
Of  horse  haltres  and  wel  mo 
Ther  hyngen  ate  time  J'o. 

Thus  whan  sche  cam  J>e  ladi  nyh. 
Than  tok  sche  betre  hiede  and  syh 
This  womman  fair  was  of  visage, 
ffreyssh,  lusti,  3ong  and  of  tendre  age ; 
And  so  fis  ladi,  'per  sche  stod, 
Be>>oghte  hire  wel  and  vnderstod 
That  pis,  which  com  ridende  >>o, 
Tidinges  couj'e  telle  of  l?o. 
Which  as  sche  sih  tofore  ryde, 
And  putte  hir  forJ>  and  preide  abide. 
And  seide.  Ha,  Suster,  let  me  hiere. 
What  ben  ]?ei,  }>at  now  riden  hiere, 
And  ben  so  richeliche  arraieds" 

This  womman,  which  com  so  esmaied, 
94 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Ansuerde  vfilp  ful  softe  speche^ 
And  seiy>,  Ma  Dame^  I  schal  30U  teche. 
These  ar  of  lf>o  pst  whilom  were 
Seruantz  to  loue,  and  trowj'e  beere, 
Ther  as  ]?ei  hadde  here  herte  set. 
ffare  wel,  for  I  mai  noght  be  let : 
Ma  Dame,  I  go  to  mi  seruise, 
So  moste  I  haste  in  alle  wise; 
fforj'i,  ma  Dame,  3if  me  leue, 
I  mai  noght  longe  v/ip  30U  leue. 

Ha,  goode  Soster,  3it  I  preie. 
Tell  me  whi  3e  ben  so  beseie. 
And  wi]?  ]?ese  haltres  J>us  begon. 

Ma  Dame,  whilom  I  was  on 
That  to  mi  fader  hadde  a  king ; 
Bot  I  was  slow,  and  for  no  J'ing 
Me  liste  noght  to  loue  obeie. 
And  J'at  I  now  ful  sore  abeie. 
ffor  I  whilom  no  loue  hadde, 
Min  hors  is  now  so  fieble  and  badde. 
And  al  totore  is  myn  arai; 
And  euery  3eer  )>is  freisshe  Maii 
These  lusti  ladis  ryde  aboute. 
And  I  mot  nedes  suie  here  route 
In  ]?is  manere  as  3e  now  se. 
And  trusse  here  haltres  for]?  wip  me. 
And  am  bot  as  here  horse  knaue. 
Non  oj'er  office  I  ne  haue. 
Hem  J'enkJ'  I  am  worj'i  nomore, 
ffor  I  was  slow  in  loues  lore. 
Whan  I  was  able  forto  lere, 
And  wolde  noght  ]?e  tales  hiere 
Of  hem  >at  cov]?en  loue  teche. 

Now  tell  me  Jeanne,  I  30V  beseche, 
95 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Wherof  >>at  riche  bridel  seruel?. 

WiV  V^t  hire  chere  awei  sche  swerue]?. 
And  gan  to  wepe,  and  J'us  sche  tolde ; 
This  bridel^  which  3e  nov  beholde 
So  riche  vpon  myn  horse  hed, — 
Ma  Dame,  afore,  er  I  was  ded. 
Whan  I  was  in  mi  lusti  lif, 
Ther  fel  into  myn  herte  a  strif 
Of  loue,  which  me  overcom. 
So  l?at  J'erafter  liiede  I  nom. 
And  J'oghte  I  wolde  loue  a  kniht : 
That  laste  wel  a  fourtenyht, 
ffor  it  no  lengere  mihte  laste. 
So  nyh  my  lif  was  ate  laste. 
Bot  now,  alias,  to  late  war 
That  I  ne  hadde  him  loued  ar : 
ffor  del?  cam  so  in  haste  bime, 
Er  I  J-erto  hadde  eny  time. 
That  it  ne  mihte  ben  achieued. 
Bot  for  al  y>at  I  am  relieued. 
Of  J'at  mi  will  was  good  l^erto. 
That  loue  soffre]?  it  be  so 
That  I  schal  swiche  a  bridel  were. 
Now  haue  je  herd  al  myn  ansuere : 
To  godd,  ma  Dame,  I  30U  betake, 
And  warnel?  alle  for  mi  sake. 
Of  loue  ]?at  J'ei  ben  noght  ydel, 
And  bidd  hem  >enke  vpon  rai  brydel. 
And  mTf>  pat  word  al  sodeinly 
Sche  passe]?,  as  it  were  a  Sky, 
Al  clene  out  of  yis  ladi  sihte. 
And  fo  for  fere  hire  herte  afflihte. 
And  seide  to  hirself,  Helas ! 
I  am  riht  in  ]?e  same  cas : 
96 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Bot  if  I  Hue  after  ifns  day, 
I  schal  amende  it,  if  I  may. 
And  )nis  homward  Jns  lady  wente. 
And  changede  al  hire  ferste  entente, 
Wi>»inne  hire  herte  and  gan  to  swere 
That  sche  none  haltres  wolde  here. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE   SONG   OF   THE   VULTURE 

By  ELIA  DEMIRJIBASHIAN 

(1851-1908) 

A  GREAT  black  bird  like  to  a  great  black  cloud 
Hovers  forever  o'er  my  spirit  bowed. 
He  is  my  guardian  angel,  but  alack ! 
Darker  than  night  he  is — than  hell  more  black. 

A  fearful-looking  bird,  with  wings  wide  spread. 
Ill-omened  as  the  Devil,  and  as  dread; 
He  hovers  round  my  wasted  body,  till 
I  wonder  if  I  yet  have  life  or  will. 

Upon  his  wings  no  spot  of  white  appears. 
His  plumage  black  sheds  horror  down,  and  fears. 
Black  are  his  talons — sharp,  like  daggers  fell ; 
And  like  a  hound  I  hear  him  howl  and  yell. 

His  wide-spread  pinions  hide  the  light  from  me ; 
Heaven  dark,  and  earth  a  dungeon  black  I  see. 
All  is  in  shadow — air  and  earth  and  skies — 
He  even  hides  the  lightning  from  my  eyes. 

I  cannot  see  the  paleness  of  my  face, 

I  cannot  see  the  maiden's  smiling  grace ; 

Black  is  the  lake,  the  stars  and  lilies  dark ; 

What  was  that  cry  5*    The  bird's  dread  calling  ! — Hark  ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

I  seem  to  totter  on  the  brink  of  hell 
And  think  the  evil  fowl  my  corpse  can  smell. 
I  seem  to  hear  the  goblins  fight  with  him — 
"  Away  with  thee  ! — ours  is  this  booty  grim ! " 

But  he  is  cruel,  strong,  and  merciless — 
This  great  black  bird ; — he  heeds  not  my  distress. 
Ten  years  I've  lived  beneath  his  deadly  wings — 
Ten  years  unceasingly  my  death-bell  rings. 

Ten  years  ago  one  night  it  came  to  pass 

On  Moda's  rock  I  sat  and  dreamed ;    alas. 

My  foe  came  to  me — Carnal  was  his  name : 

He  shouted,  '*  Vain  are  Life  and  Love  and  Fame !  " 

Youthful  I  was,  and  armed  with  Love  and  Hope 
I  struggled.    "  Oh,  my  soul,  arise  and  cope 
With  this  thy  foe,  and  vanquish  him,"  I  cried. 
But  'twas  in  vain,  as  I  full  soon  espied. 

My  sun  and  joy  since  then  are  on  the  wane. 
My  foe  cries  out,  "  I,  only  I,  shall  reign  ! 
O'er  all  the  universe  none  rules  but  me !  " — 
Then  rose  a  Siren's  voice  alluringly.  .  .  . 

Nirvana  and  the  flesh  held  me  that  hour : 

God  was  asleep — my  soul  was  in  their  power. 

Then  on  the  moon  I  saw  a  spot  appear; — 

It  grew,  and  grew  ...  my  heart  turned  sick  with  fear. 

I  was  as  dead.    The  carrion-eating  bird 
Had  left  that  heavenly  corpse — the  moon — allured 
To  earth  by  me.    It  sought  my  bosom  where 
The  image  of  Christ  crucified  lay  bare. 
99 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

Beneath  those  evil  wings  I  hopelessly 
Roam  over  the  earth; — my  guardian  angel  he; 
No  more  the  cross  I  wear^  nor  in  my  breast 
Dwells  holy  faith ;   'tis  death :   death  without  rest. 

Like  to  the  moon,  whether  I  wax  or  wane 
Still  am  I  lifeless,  cursed  with  this  bane. 
I  give  the  vulture  of  my  flesh  to  tear. 
And  shiver  when  the  name  of  "  love  "  I  hear. 

While  yet  I  live  he  is  devouring  me : 

I  cannot  bear  this  pain — Oh,  set  me  free ! 

I  am  not  dead — Love  still  dwells  with  me  here. 

I  am  alive — and  some  call  me  the  "  Ner." ' 

Ah,  gruesome  bird,  art  thou  not  yet  content 
These  ten  long  years  my  body  to  have  rent?* 
Ah,  vulture  black — ^black  earth  and  ebon  sky, 
*Tis  time  that  I  should  lay  me  down  and  die. 

"  Ner  " — the  Antichrist,  concerning  whom  the  Armenians  have  many  traditions. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


DANCE    SONG^ 

FOLK  SONG 

"  I  HAVE  loved  your  winsome  face, 

And  your  never-fading  grace. 

If  they  give  you  not  to  me 

May  God  send  them  black  disgrace ! " 

"  Mountain  sorrel,  fresh  with  dew. 
Sweets  I  send  and  honey  new; 
Is  a  dainty  maid  like  me 
Fit  to  wed  a  youth  like  you  s" " 

"  You  are  arch,  my  little  maid. 
In  four  plaits  your  hair  you  braid, 
Make  no  more  pretence  to  me — 
For  you  love  me,  I'm  afraid  !  " 

"  Drive  your  plough  ahead,  and  go ; 
Underneath  it  thistles  grow. 
You  are  reckless,  young,  and  wild — 
She  is  mad  would  wed  you  so  !  " 

"  Near  your  house  a  field  I'll  sow 
And  I'll  stone  the  ill-starred  crow. 
When  I  have  the  girl  I  love 
I'll  let  all  my  folly  go." 

'  Haberban. 
.    lOI 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"  On  its  way  the  water  flows, 
Washing  with  its  waves  the  rose. 
My  beloved  amidst  the  youths, 
Like  a  mighty  fortress  shows." 

"  In  the  vineyard  you  have  grown. 
Where  the  melon  plants  are  sown. 
Day  and  night  upon  my  lute. 
You  I  sing,  and  you  alone." 

"  Sing  a  minstrel's  song  to  me, 

Or  the  blackbird's  rhapsody; 

All  your  praises  I  deserve. 

And  my  bridegroom  you  shall  be  !  " 


The  Lady  and  the  MrasTREL 

"  The  minstrel's  love  stole  out  unseen. 

With  burning  thoughts  of  her  belov'd  j 
All  through  the  woods  so  dark  and  green. 
Seeking,  and  seeking  him,  she  roved." 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


BALLAD 

By  RAFFI 

Dark  forests  clothe  the  mountain-side. 
And  o'er  that  mountain's  lofty  head 

The  heavens  bend  their  arches  wide, 

And,  dome-like,  round  its  summit  spread, 

A  castle  stood  upon  the  steep, 

Enchanted  by  a  witch's  spell; 
A  maiden  wept  within  the  keep. 

Bound  by  the  chains  of  slav'ry  fell. 

Alone  and  sad,  the  maiden  fair 

Sat  in  her  dark  and  narrow  room. 

No  hope  had  she,  but  dire  despair 

Had  worn  her  heart  with  thoughts  of  gloom. 

A  minstrel  passed — as  it  befell — 

A  singer,  singing  sweetest  strains ; 

He  broke  the  witch's  evil  spell. 

And  loosed  the  gentle  maiden's  chains. 

She  ran  to  him  and  kissed  his  face. 

And  said,  "  How  I  have  longed  for  thee ! 

God,  in  His  mercy  and  His  grace. 

Hath  sent  thee  here  to  set  me  free ! " 
103 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

And  when^  above  the  mountain  steep. 
The  moon  shone  out  her  silver  light, 

And  when  the  stars  began  to  peep, 

Twinkling  and  scattering  jewels  bright, 

The  minstrel's  love  stole  out  unseen. 

With  burning  thoughts  of  her  belov'd ; 

All  through  the  woods  so  dark  and  green, 
Seeking,  and  seeking  him,  she  roved. 

A  hut  there  was  within  that  wood. 

Meet  dwelling  for  some  dervish  old ; 

All  lined  with  moss  and  leaves,  it  stood 
Protected  from  the  rain  and  cold. 

The  minstrel  lived  within  this  nook. 
And  sang  alone  beneath  the  trees. 

His  friend — Firdausi's  wondrous  book. 
His  comrades — Sadi  and  Hafiz. 

The  Houri  of  the  castle  there 

Spent  many  happy  days  and  nights — 

Immortal  souls  in  Jennet '  fair 

Have  never  tasted  such  delights. 

He  wiped  the  tears  by  sorrow  shed. 

And  healed  the  wounds  by  sorrow  wrought ; 
Like  captive  from  a  prison  fled. 

Her  cares  and  woes  she  soon  forgot. 

Broken  and  aged  was  her  sire ; 

A  mighty  Prince,  the  castle's  lord. 
To  satisfy  his  heart's  desire. 

Had  reft  her  from  him  with  his  sword. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

The  Prince  held  office  high  at  courts 
And  countless  women,  bright  as  day. 

Lived  in  his  harem's  vile  resort. 

And  slaves,  more  than  my  tongue  can  say. 

His  women,  guarded  day  and  night. 
Caged  in  with  iron  bars  he  keeps; 

But  LOVE,  more  strong  than  despot's  might. 

Breaks  through  that  cage,  those  bars  o'erleaps. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


NO    BIRD 
CAN    REACH    THE    MOUNTAIN'S   CREST 

By  HOVHANNES  COSTANIANTZ 

No  bird  can  reach  the  mountain's  crest. 
There  blow  the  winds  that  never  rest ; 
And  'midst  the  stars  that  crown  the  height, 
Saint  Gregory's  fair  lamp  shines  bright." 

Ah,  gentle  brother,  sweet  and  brave. 

That  Light  thy  sword  and  spirit  save ! 

How  many  rills  the  mountain  yields ! 
Those  rills  are  streams,  that  dew  the  fields. 
My  brother  sweet,  those  rushing  streams 
Are  like  my  longings  and  my  dreams. 

Happy  the  maid  that  loveth  thee ! 

When  shall  thy  heart's  desire  bef* 

See,  in  the  South  a  tempest  breaks — 
A  tempest  howls,  the  leaflet  quakes ; 
The  bluebell  hangs  its  petals  bright, 
The  cock  cries  out  with  all  his  might. 

Like  showers  of  gold  comes  down  the  rain : — 

Why  comes  my  love  not  home  again  S' 

'  Above  the  summit  of  Aragatz,  the  mountain  that  faces  Ararat  on  the  far  side  of  the  plain,  a  weird  light  is  sometimes 
visible,  traditionally  called  the  Lamp  of  Saint  Gregory  the  Illuminator. 

io6 


Armenian   Legends  and  Poems 

The  Star  of  Light  begins  his  course, 
The  brave  one  mounts  upon  his  horse. 
He  drives  his  spurs  into  its  flanks, 
And  rides  away  to  join  the  ranks. 
Happy  the  maid  that  loveth  thee. 
When  shall  thy  heart's  desire  beS' 

There  comes  no  news  from  far  away, 

Oiu:  brave  ones  rest  not  from  the  fray. 

'Tis  long  that  sleep  my  eyes  doth  flee — 

Our  foemen  press  unceasingly. 

'Tis  long  for  sleep  I  vainly  pray : 
There  comes  no  news  from  far  away. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE    NIGHTINGALE   OF   AVARAIR 

By  LEO  ALISHAN 

Whence  comest  thou,  my  moon,  gentle  and  still. 
Spreading  thy  light  o'er  meadow,  vale,  and  hill. 
And  o'er  this  patriarch,  that  lost  in  thought 
The  midnight  plains  of  Avarair  has  sought  i 
Whereon  otu:  fathers,  martyred  for  the  right. 
As  giants  fell,  to  rise  as  angels  bright ! 
Com'st  thou  to  spread  upon  their  ashes  cold 
From  yonder  snowy  cloud  a  pall  of  golds' 
Or  would'st  thou  bind  around  thy  brow  of  light 
A  token  of  Armenia's  life-blood  bright  i — 
Or  art  thou  still  in  awestruck  wonder  lost 
To  think  how  Vartan  fell,  with  all  his  host; — 
Leaving  death's  shadow  in  his  foeman's  breast. 
Trusting  his  soul  to  God,  he  sank  to  rest ! 

And  thou,  Dughmood,  that  stained  with  blood  I  see 
Winding  amongst  thy  rushes  sobbingly; 
Thou  breeze  that  from  Magou's  steep  rock  dost  waft. 
Or  from  great  Ararat  descendest  soft; — 
Thou  too  like  me  dost  tremble,  and  thy  wings 
Listlessly  bear  thee  on  thy  wanderings : 
O'er  hill  and  dale  thou  fiiest,  from  wood  to  wood. 
Till  on  this  plain  thou  stay'st  thy  wings  to  brood ; 
Then  bearest  on  this  careworn  heart's  last  sigh 
To  echo  in  Armenia  ere  it  die  I 
io8 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

0  friend  of  aching  hearts,  soul  of  the  rose. 
That  breakest  with  thy  voice  the  night's  repose; 
Sing,  little  Nightingale,  from  yonder  tree — 
Armenia's  deathless  heroes  sing  with  me ! 
From  Thaddeus'  convent  as  thy  voice  I  heard. 
Praying  before  the  cross,  my  heart  was  stirred. 

1  hastened  forth  beneath  thy  magic  spell 

And  found  thee  on  the  plain  where  Vartan  fell. 

Ah,  Nightingale  of  Avarair,  they  say 
No  bird  art  thou  that  nightly  sing'st  thy  lay, 
But  Eghishe,  the  singer  wondrous  sweet. 
That  in  the  rose's  heart  Vartan  dost  greet. 
The  winter  drives  thee  far  away  to  mourn; 
Spring's  roses  bid  thee  to  Axdaz  return. 
In  Eghish^'s  sad  notes  to  sob  and  cry. 
To  call  Vartan,  and  list  for  a  reply. 

If  ever  like  the  fainting  Nightingale's 

My  voice  with  you,  Togarmah's  sons,  prevails, — 

Sons  of  those  fathers  virtuous  and  wise. 

Who  with  their  glories  filled  books,  plains,  and  skies;- 

If  of  Armenian  blood  one  drop  should  flow 

Within  your  veins,  or  make  your  hearts  to  glow; 

Or  if  their  glories  past  you  too  would  share, 

To  Ardaz  with  the  patriarch  repair ! 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THOU   ART   SO    SWEET 

By  SAYAT  nova 

Thou  art  so  sweet  thou  wilt  not  pain  the  minstrel  singing  songs  to  thee^ 
But  when  he  loves  thee  thou  dost  frown — in  vain  he  tells  his  wrongs  to  thee. 

Love's  fire  is  such,  'twill  not  consume — 'twill  burn,  and  burn,  and  ever  burn : 
If  in  that  sea  of  flame  I  fall  to  cool  me  thou  wilt  never  turn. 

Alas,  how  shall  the  minstrel  bear  thy  lightning  gleams  that  pierce  his  heart  f 
No  pact  or  treaty  wilt  thou  make — a  monarch  absolute  thou  art. 

If  thou  dost  meet  with  mountains  high  like  wax  thou  meltest  them  away ; 
If  cities  fair  lie  on  thy  path,  their  pride  in  ruins  thou  dost  lay. 

In  sooth,  no  compact  wilt  thou  make  with  him  who  sings  these  strains  to  thee  : 
Sayat  Nova  no  credit  hath  when  he  would  tell  his  pains  to  thee. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE   WANDERING 
ARMENIAN    TO   THE   SWALLOW 

By  C.  a.  DODOCHIAN 

O  SWALLOW,  gentle  swallow. 

Thou  lovely  bird  of  spring  ! 

Say,  whither  art  thou  flying 

So  swift  on  gleaming  wing  i 

Fly  to  my  birthplace,  Ashdarag, 
The  spot  I  love  the  best ; 

Beneath  my  father's  roof-tree, 
O  swallow,  build  thy  nest. 

There  dwells  afar  my  father, 
A  mournful  man  and  grey, 

Who  for  his  only  son's  return 
Waits  vainly,  day  by  day. 

If  thou  shouldst  chance  to  see  him. 
Greet  him  with  love  from  me  j 

Bid  him  sit  down  and  mourn  with  tears 
His  son's  sad  destiny. 

In  poverty  and  loneliness. 

Tell  him,  my  days  are  passed : 

My  life  is  only  half  a  life. 
My  tears  are  falling  fast. 
Ill 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

To  me,  amid  bright  daylight, 

The  sun  is  dark  at  noon ; 
To  my  wet  eyes  at  midnight 

Sleep  comes  not,  late  or  soon. 

Tell  him  that,  like  a  beauteous  flower 

Smit  by  a  cruel  doom. 
Uprooted  from  my  native  soil, 

I  wither  ere  my  bloom. 

Fly  on  swift  wing,  dear  swallow. 

Across  the  quickening  earth. 
And  seek  in  fair  Armenia 

The  village  of  my  birth  ! 

Translated  by  Alice  Stone  BlackwelL 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


THE   CHRIST-CHILD 

By    saint    GREGORY    OF    NAREK 

(951-1009) 

The  lips  of  the  Christ-child  are  like  to  twin  leaves ; 
They  let  roses  fall  when  he  smiles  tenderly. 
The  tears  of  the  Christ-child  are  pearls  when  he  grieves; 
The  eyes  of  the  Christ-child  are  deep  as  the  sea. 
Like  pomegranate  grains  are  the  dimples  he  hath, 
And  clustering  lilies  spring  up  in  his  path. 

Translated  by  Alice  Stone  Blackwell. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

THE   CASTLE   OF   ANOUSH' 

By  RAFFI 

"  Anoush  "  in  name,  but  full  of  bitterness  in  reality. 

On  one  side  of  the  road  that  leads  from  Tisbon  to  Ecbatana  stands  a  steep,  pointed  crag. 
Its  massive  base  rises  from  an  extensive  bed  of  rock,  on  which  Nature  has  placed  it  as  on  a 
firm  pedestal. 

Not  a  handful  of  earth  is  to  be  found  upon  its  denuded  surface.  Not  a  single  plant 
grows  on  its  hard,  stony  sides. 

The  burning  rays  of  the  southern  sun  have  dried  and  baked  it  like  an  earthen  vessel 
in  the  potter's  ever-burning  fire.   From  time  immemorial  that  rock  has  ever  been  so. 

It  happened  one  day  that  Farhat,  the  great  Persian  sculptor,  passed  at  the  foot  of  the 
rock  with  his  pickaxe  on  his  shoulder.  He  was  aroused  suddenly  from  the  deep  medita- 
tion in  which  he  had  been  lost  by  the  sound  of  horns  and  trumpets.  He  stopped.  Grey- 
hounds and  hawk-bearers  appeared,  gay  and  thoughtless  riders  burst  into  sight  like  a  storm, 
then  passed  away  from  sight  like  a  storm. 

The  dim,  shadowy  outline  of  a  face  remained  in  his  heart ;  that  vision  stole  away  his 
peace  of  mind.  Every  day  at  the  same  hour  he  was  to  be  seen  on  the  road  waiting, — waiting 
with  the  tenderest  feelings  of  his  heart  aroused.  The  beloved  vision  would  appear,  and  after 
throwing  a  careless  glance  at  him  would  pass  by  like  a  flash  of  lightning. 

He  lost  his  peace  of  mind,  abandoned  his  Art,  and  wandered  like  one  beside  himself  in 
the  solitudes  of  the  mountains. 

Days  passed,  weeks  passed,  and  months  passed.  One  day  he  was  sitting  there  waiting. 
She  appeared.  But  this  time  there  were  neither  greyhounds  nor  hawk-bearers  with  her. 
She  was  alone,  with  a  number  of  her  maidens.  She  urged  her  horse  on  and  came  up  to 
Farhat. 

"  Hail,  great  Master,"  she  said.  "  What  has  chained  thee  to  these  mountains — to  the 
solitudes  of  these  desert  places  i    I  ever  see  thee  here." 

» Anoush  =  sweet. 
114 


The  Castle  of  Anoush 


"  His  warm  blood  sprinkled  the  wonders  that 
were  the  work  of  his  hands." 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

**  The  joy  of  sometimes  seeing  a  transcendently  beautiful  vision  light  up  the  solitudes  of 
these  desert  places,"  answered  Farhat. 

"  Is  thy  love  so  great,  then  S*  "  she  asked,  smiling. 

"  Who  can  help  loving  her  that  has  not  a  peer  amongst  the  immortals  S*  Who  can  help 
loving  her  whose  breath  gives  life,  whose  one  glance  confers  eternal  happiness  S*  Do  you 
think  that  the  heart  of  him  that  is  ever  occupied  with  the  stone  and  the  chisel  becomes  so 
hardened  that  there  is  no  room  left  in  it  for  beauty  S*  " 

"  I  think  not  so.  He  that  can  give  form  and  life  to  a  shapeless  stone,  he  that  creates 
beautiful  beings  out  of  cold  marble,  cannot  but  love  what  is  beautiful  himself.  But 
listen,  Artist — to  win  the  heart  of  the  daughter  of  the  Arian  King  requires  great  sacrifices." 

^*  I  know  that  great  goddesses  require  great  sacrifices." 

"  I  do  not  demand  what  is  impossible — I  only  wish  to  try  thy  love.  Look,  Farhat,  dost 
thou  see  yonder  rock  ?*  "  and  she  pointed  to  the  sharp  crag.  "  Thou  must  create  palaces  for 
me  out  of  that  rock,  so  that  I  may  look  down  from  the  summit  with  delight,  and  watch  how 
the  Tigris  threads  the  beautiful  plains  of  Assyria  with  its  silvery  curves,  or  how  the  tall 
palm-trees  of  Baghistan  wave  at  the  breathing  of  the  gentle  zephyrs.  And  in  the  heart 
of  the  rock  thou  must  make  storehouses  for  my  treasures,  and  underneath  there  must  be 
dwelling-places  for  my  horses.    When  all  this  is  ready  I  shall  be  thine." 

She  spoke,  and  rode  away. 

Years  passed  away.  The  pickaxe  and  hammer  of  the  Master  worked  untiringly  at  the 
unyielding  rock.  The  ceaseless  sounds  of  the  heavy  blows  were  to  be  heard  day  and  night. 
The  work  was  carried  on  successfully.  Love  strengthened  the  genius  of  the  great  Master,  and 
the  beauty  of  the  Arian  King's  daughter  fired  him  with  enthusiasm.  He  made  chambers,  he 
made  state-rooms,  he  made  halls  decorated  with  pictures,  and  out  of  the  solid  rock  he  created 
a  palace  of  marvellous  beauty.  He  made  the  walls  of  the  apartments  live  with  pictures  carved 
in  relief.  In  one  place  he  sculptured  the  battles  that  the  old  heroes  and  giants  of  Iran  had 
fought  with  devils  and  evil  spirits  ;  in  another  the  glory  and  greatness  of  the  ancient  kings  of 
Iran,  and  festivals  celebrating  their  victories  and  deeds  of  prowess.  He  drew  on  the  stone  the 
valiant  acts  of  ancestral  kings,  their  virtues,  and  the  benefits  that  they  scattered  over  the  land 
of  the  Arians.  He  worked  all  these  wonders  for  the  one  being  to  whom  he  had  devoted  all 
the  passion  of  his  love.  He  worked  them  all  so  that  she  might  be  continually  reminded 
of  the  glorious  past  of  Iran,  that  her  heart  might  continually  be  rejoiced  with  the  noble 
pride  that  she  was  the  descendant  of  a  great  dynasty  born  of  the  gods,  which  had  always 
done  god-like  deeds. 

115 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

She  came  and  saw  it  all. 

"  It  is  very  beautiful/'  she  said,  "  but  there  is  no  water  here — there  are  no  trees.  Make 
fountains  for  me  that  shall  throw  the  water  up  higher  than  the  clouds.  Plant  trees  for  me 
under  whose  shadow  I  may  rest ; — ^rest  in  thine  arms  !  " 

She  spoke,  and  rode  away. 

He  turned  the  courses  of  far  distant  streams  and  brought  the  water  by  underground 
channels  to  the  very  summit  of  the  rock.  He  shaped  the  stone,  dug  out  basins,  and  created 
silvery  fountains.  Day  and  night  the  never-ending  supply  of  water  rose  out  of  the  foun- 
tains, and  dewed  the  surrounding  plants  with  pearl-like  drops.  He  levelled  the  surface  of 
the  rock,  and  covered  it  with  earth  brought  from  distant  places.  He  planted  trees  and  made 
lofty  hanging  gardens  that  looked  as  if  they  were  growing  in  the  air.  Years  passed.  The 
trees  grew  and  gave  fruit,  the  flowers  blossomed  and  filled  the  scented  gardens  with  their 
gladdening  perfumes.  The  birds  came  and  filled  the  place  with  their  happy  songs.  But  she 
who  was  to  have  been  the  queen  and  pride  of  that  beautiful  paradise  did  not  appear. 

One  day  the  Master  sat  at  the  foot  of  the  palace  he  had  made,  leaning  his  chin  on  his  hand 
and  looking  sorrowfully  down  the  road.  A  peasant  came  up  singing,  and  sat  down  beside 
him  to  rest  a  little. 

"  Whence  comest  thou  s*  "  asked  the  Master.    "  Thou  art  fortutiate  in  being  so  happy." 

"  From  Tisbon,"  said  the  peasant.  *'  And  why  should  I  not  be  happy  when  all  the 
world  is  rejoicing  S"  " 

"  What  has  happened  s*  " 

"  Dost  thou  not  know  that  in  town  the  wedding  has  already  been  going  on  for  seven 
days  and  seven  nights  s*  The  wine  is  flowing  in  rivers,  and  there  is  no  limit  to  the  dainty 
fare.  They  are  eating,  drinking,  and  making  merry.  The  whole  town  resounds  with  the 
strains  of  music,  and  the  feet  of  the  dancers  are  never  weary.  I  also  came  in  for  my  share 
of  good  things — I  ate  and  drank  as  much  as  I  could,  and  now  I  am  taking  home  what  will 
be  enough  for  my  wife  and  children  for  many  weeks." 

"  Whose  wedding  is  it  s"  " 

"  The  King's." 

*'  To  whom  is  he  married  ^  " 

"  To  Anoush." 

The  Master  spoke  no  more.  He  only  started  as  one  struck  by  lightning,  then  remained 
motionless.  Then  he  rose  and  walked  with  weak,  trembling  steps  towards  the  palace  he 
had  created.    He  looked  around,  and  for  the  last  time  raised  his  sorrowful  eyes  to  all  the 

ii6 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

work  that  was  the  result  of  passionate  love  and  beautiful  Art.  Then  he  entered  into  his 
work-room.  His  tools  were  lying  about.  He  took  up  a  heavy  hammer  and  came  out  on  to  the 
narrow  ledge.  "  She  deceived  me  !  "  he  said,  and  threw  the  hammer  up  into  the  air.  It 
turned  over  and  over,  then  fell  on  to  his  head.  His  warm  blood  sprinkled  the  wonders  that 
were  the  work  of  his  hands. 

Farhat  did  not  obtain  the  desire  of  his  heart,  but  the  name  of  his  beloved  Anoush 
remained  with  that  stone  fortress,  and  it  was  called  the  Castle  of  Anoush. 

That  rock-hewn  palace  which  was  prepared  to  be  the  temple  of  love  and  everlasting 
happiness  became  a  hell  full  of  tears  and  unending  suffering.  It  was  there  that  the  Kings 
of  Persia  imprisoned  the  Armenian  Kings  who  fell  captive  into  their  hands. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


HAPPINESS 

By  ARSCHAG  TCHOBANIAN 
{Born  1872) 

Weary  of  vainly  seeking  Happiness 
In  city  alleys  full  of  sound  and  strife^ 
I  hastened  from  the  noisy  human  press, — 
The  labyrinth  of  this  dark,  grovelling  life. 

I  said,  "  The  mountain  knows  its  place  of  rest," 
And  clambered  up  above  the  level  plain ; 
But  the  bald  Titan  answered  me  distressed  : — 
"  Dullness  alone  doth  Time  for  me  ordain." 

I  left  the  mountain  and  approached  the  winds — 
Those  infinite,  proud  spirits,  ever  free ; 
"  We  are  the  sighs  of  griefs  that  to  your  minds 
Must  still  remain  unknown,"  they  answered  me. 

And  then  above  the  winds  and  clouds  I  rose. 
Soared  to  the  skies,  and  asked  the  stars  of  Heaven. 
"  We  are  the  tears  that  flow  from  countless  woes," 
The  answer  by  those  eyes  of  darkness  given. 

Above  the  stars,  in  the  lone  fields  of  space, 

I  saw  God  musing,  sorrowful  and  mild. 

"  Father,"  I  cried,  "  where  is  Joy's  dwelling-place  S* " 

He  said,  "  I  also  do  not  know,  my  child." 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

CONCERNING    DEATH 

By  HOVHANNES  TULKOURANTZI 
(1450-1525) 

0  EVIL  man^  with  passions  fraught, 
How  long  wilt  thou  strive  after  sin?" 
Enough  the  ill  that  thou  hast  wrought : 
Repent, — a  holier  life  begin. 

From  Adam's  time  until  this  day, 
No  soul  hath  had  immortal  breath ; 
Thou  heed'st  not  what  the  Scriptures  say — 
The  sinner's  punishment  is  death. 

He  that  had  palaces  of  gold. 
And  brilliant  cities,  fortress-bound. 
Hath  left  behind  his  wealth  untold. 
And  lies  beneath  the  sodden  ground. 

Who  loved  to  quaff  the  spicy  wine. 
And  spent  his  life  in  ribaldry, 

1  saw  him  like  a  swollen  swine, — 
A  loathsome  corpse,  unsavoury. 

The  man  that  rode  an  arch-necked  steed 
And  flashed  his  sword  around  to  slay, 
I  saw  him  penitent  indeed : — 
Between  two  wooden  planks  he  lay. 
119 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

And  evil  wenches^  women  fair. 
Who  dress  in  robes  of  gaudy  dye, 
Who  love  to  curl  and  braid  their  hair — 
Their  brightness  with  the  sun  might  vie : 

They  swing  about,  and  turn,  and  sway, 
And  are  beloved  of  every  man; 
But  hateful  when  Death  comes  are  they, 
To  all  who  would  their  features  scan, 

Christ  sits  upon  the  throne  of  Light, 
Rewarding  those  who  loved  His  Word, 
Crowning  the  just  with  glory  bright 
And  penitents  His  voice  that  heard. 

Ah,  Hovhannes  Tulkourantji, 
Listen  with  open  heart  and  ear ; 
Seek  out  some  way  diligently 
To  win  the  crown  of  glory  there. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

LOVE   ONE   ANOTHER 

By  BEDROS  TOURIAN 

Undying  Love,  Whose  beams  forever  glow 

On  rose-red  Golgotha's  stupendous  brow ; 

Wilt  Thou  those  shafts  still  in  Thy  bosom  keep?' 

What  guardest  ThouS* — bones,  spectres,  chasms  deep, — 

That  in  the  echoes  of  the  mountain-side 

Thy  noble  words,  "  Love  one  another,"  died  i 

Effaced  and  trampled  is  the  poor  man's  tomb ; 
The  poor  man's  candle  flickers  out  in  gloom ; 
And  in  that  darkness  starving  children  weep. 
While  in  the  palace  revels  high  they  keep. 
The  rich  man's  carriage  dashes  gaily  past. 
The  beggar's  lonely  corpse  to  earth  is  cast. 

The  pallid  angel  of  Gethsemane 

Tears  doth  not  heed  nor  flowers,  nor  glory's  plea. 

The  poor  find  rest  in  his  cold  arms  alone. 

For  in  Death's  shroud  the  high  and  low  are  one. 

Though  lightning-winged  the  winds  cry  o'er  the  moor, 

"  Love  one  another,"  here  none  love  the  poor. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

PASQUA   ARMENA^ 

By  VITTORIA  AGANOOR  POMPILJ 

NoN  fu  di  fiele  abbeveratoS'     II  petto 
non  gli  squarcio  Tignobile  scherano  S* 
Non  fu  percosso,  irriso,  e  un'empia  mano 
non  lo  inchiodo  sul  legno  maledetto  i 

Pur,  quale  mai  piti  glorioso  e  forte 
risorgere,  se  ancor  tuona  la  voce 
deirOsanna,  e  dovunque  apre  una  croce 
le  braccia,  dall'idea  vinta  e  la  morte  S* 

Armenia,  ed  anche  a  te  squarciato  \\  seno 
vedo  dai  nuovi  farisei.    Raccolto 
hanno  il  fango  a  scagliartelo  sul  volto ; 
per  dissetarti  apprestano  il  veleno. 

Ma  se  rinsa^iata  orda  ferina 

suUe  tue  membra  flagellate  e  grame 

oggi  rinnova  la  tortura  infame 

del  Golgota,  la  tua  Pasqua  e  vicina. 

'  This  and  the  following  poem  are  reprinted  from  Nuove  Liriche,  by  Vittoria  Aganoor  Pompilj. 
Antologia. 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 

"lO   VIDI" 

By  VITTORIA  AGANOOR  POMPILJ 

AccosTARSi  aU'osciiro 
mio  letto,  dalle  porte 
raggianti,  io  vidi  il  puro 
angiolo  della  morte, 

Una  dorata  ciocca 
velava  gli  occhi  suoi : 
diceva  la  sua  bocca 
sorridendo  :  —  Mi  vuoi  i  — 

Rapita  io  nella  bianca 
sua  desiata  faccia, 
io,  di  vane  opre  stanca, 
a  lui  tendo  le  braccia ; 

e,  mentre  Taffannoso 
mio  cor  s'apre  alia  fede 
del  perfetto  riposo 
che  solo  egli  concede; 

mi  sibila  vicina 

una  maligna  voce  : 

"  Destati ;   orsu,  cammina, 

ripiglia  la  tua  croce  !  " 


ARMENIA: 

ITS   EPICS,   FOLK-SONGS,   AND   MEDIAEVAL   POETRY 

By  ARAM  RAFFI 

The  country  that  is  called  Armenia  consists  of  a  large  plateau,  covered  with  numerous  moun- 
tain ranges,  which  are  intersected  by  many  valleys  and  passes,  as  well  as  by  rivers  and  lesser 
streams  of  considerable  depth.  The  climate  differs  in  various  parts  of  the  country,  the  meteoro- 
logical conditions  ranging  from  frost  and  snow  to  extreme  heat.  Over  the  plains  towers  Mount 
Ararat,  on  which,  as  we  read  in  the  Bible,  the  Ark  rested  after  the  Flood.  Here  also  is  the 
traditional  site  of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  and  the  four  rivers  mentioned  in  Genesis  as  rising 
in  the  Garden  still  flow  through  the  Armenian  land. 

The  origin  of  the  Armenian  people  is  enveloped  in  mystery,  but  it  is  an  established  fact 
that  Armenia  has  had  a  civilisation  of  its  own  from  a  very  early  date,  and  that  the  Armenians 
are  one  of  the  most  ancient  races  in  the  world.  They  have  had  their  periods  of  independence, 
but,  on  account  of  its  geographical  position,  Armenia  has  seldom  figured  as  one  of  the  great 
ruling  states  of  the  world,  although  it  has  repelled  by  arms  invasions  of  such  nations  as  Assyria. 
Assyrian  records  are  filled  with  descriptions  of  conflicts  with  Armenian  kings  ;  King  Assur 
Nazir  Haban  (1882-1857  B.C.)  gives  this  account  of  one  of  his  "  victories  "  : — *'  They 
(the  people  of  Ararat,  or  Urardu)  fled  to  the  impregnable  mountains  so  that  I  might  not  be 
able  to  get  at  them,  for  the  mighty  summits  were  like  drawn  swords  pointing  to  the  skies. 
Only  the  birds  of  heaven  soaring  on  their  wings  could  reach  them.  In  three  days  I  was 
there,  spreading  terror  in  places  where  they  had  taken  refuge.  Their  corpses,  like  autumn 
leaves,  filled  the  clefts.     The  rest  escaped  to  distant  inaccessible  heights." 

Notwithstanding  the  boasts  of  the  Assyrian  kings,  they  did  not  succeed  in  permanently 
crushing  the  independence  of  Armenia. 

Tigranes  the  Great  brought  Armenia  more  in  contact  with  distant  foreign  lands.  In  his 
time  his  country  began  to  be  considered  of  importance  by  Greek  and  Roman  historians.  The 
Romans  sent  LucuUus  to  engage  in  war  with  Tigranes  in  order  to  crush  his  growing  power. 
This  is  what — according  to  Plutarch — LucuUus  said  of  Tigranes  : — 

"  In  Armenia  Tigranes,  King  of  Kings,  is  seated,  surrounded  with  that  power  which 
125  Ka 


Armenia 

has  wrested  Asia  from  the  Parthians,  which  carries  Grecian  colonies  into  Media,  subdues  Syria 
and  Palestine,  cuts  off  the  Seleucidae  and  carries  their  wives  and  daughters  into  captivity." 
Cicero  says  of  Tigranes  the  Great : — "  He  made  the  Republic  of  Rome  tremble  before  the 
prowess  of  his  arms." 

To  give  even  a  short  outline  of  Armenian  folklore  and  poetry  it  is  essential  to  point  out 
those  agencies  and  influences  which  have  served  to  originate  that  literature.  Hence  its  literature 
and  history,  like  those  of  all  countries,  are  interwoven.  Notwithstanding  its  periods  of  greatness, 
Armenia  was  unable,  as  we  said  above,  to  continue  to  be  a  powerful  and  independent  state. 
Thus  we  see  Armenia  serving  as  a  bridge  between  armies  engaged  in  war,  and  such  has  been 
its  fate  in  all  periods,  even  up  to  the  present  time. 

It  fell  successively  under  the  dominion  of  Assyria,  Babylonia,  and,  finally,  of  Persia 
when,  after  the  time  of  Cyrus,  the  kingdom  of  Persia  was  extended  by  Darius  over  nearly 
the  whole  of  Asia.  Although  Armenia  became  a  tributary  of  Persia,  it  still  had  its  own 
independent  king. 

The  Median  Empire  had  been  founded  probably  in  677-672  B.C.  From  that  time  Iranian 
influence  was  strongly  felt  in  the  politics,  language,  and  social  organisation  of  Armenia,  and 
the  Iranian  religion,  with  its  terminology,  names  of  divinities,  and  many  folk-beliefs,  permeated 
Armenian  paganism. 

Moreover,  the  Armenians,  being  the  near  neighbours  of  the  Persians,  closely  resembled 
them  in  their  manner  of  life  and  their  religion.  After  the  conquest  of  Alexander  the  Great, 
Armenia,  like  all  other  Asiatic  nations,  fell  under  Greek  dominion.  Then  the  Macedonian 
rule  gave  way  to  the  Parthian,  and  the  dynasty  of  the  Arsacidae  held  sway,  a  king  of  that  race 
being  set  over  Armenia  and  founding  an  independent  Armenian  dynasty.  The  Arsacidae 
introduced  Greek  civilisation  and  culture  into  Armenia.  During  this  period  the  character  of 
the  Armenians  changed.  Not  only  their  religion  but  their  manners  and  customs  became 
different  from  those  of  the  Persians.  The  rule  of  Macedonia  over  Armenia  lasted  180  years 
(330-150  B.C.).  The  Graecophile  Arsacid  dynasty  lasted  376  years  (150  B.C.-226  A.D.). 
These  long  periods  brought  the  Armenians  into  close  contact  with  the  Greeks  and  separated 
them  from  the  Persians. 

To  the  periods  which  we  have  outlined  belongs  the  literature  of  Armenia  preceding  the 
introduction  of  Christianity.  Of  this  literature  the  remains  that  have  come  down  to  us  consist 
of  legends,  songs,  and  fragments  of  epics.  Of  the  epics  we  have  some  records  and  summaries, 
chiefly  found  in  the  History  of  Moses  of  Khorene  (5th  century  A.D.),  who  has  also  preserved 
some  of  the  heroic  songs  in  their  original  form.    These  epics  relate  the  history  of  Armenian 

136 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and   Mediaeval  Poetry 

ancestral  and  mythical  heroes,  to  whom  are  ascribed  the  foundation  and  development  of  the 
Armenian  nation.  In  them  we  see  Armenian  ideals  of  the  earliest  times.  As  these  ideals  are 
closely  interwoven  with  the  religious  beliefs  of  the  pre-Christian  period,  let  us  now  cast 
a  glance  at  Armenian  Paganism. 

It  is  said  by  ancient  Armenian  historians  that  the  Armenians  were  originally  worshippers 
of  the  One  True  God,  but  they,  like  all  other  nations,  deserted  Him  and  took  up  with  various 
religions.  Sun-worship  was  one  of  these  ;  Zoroastrianism  also  had  its  turn  ;  in  due  course,  the 
Greeks  introduced  their  own  deities ;  even  India  succeeded  in  making  its  influence  felt. 
Strabo  has  it  that  the  Armenians,  during  the  period  of  the  Arsacid  dynasty,  were  of  the  same 
religion  as  the  Parthians.  It  appears  that  the  Armenians  fused  together  Zoroastrianism  and  the 
polytheism  of  Greece  and  other  nations,  thus  combining  eastern  and  western  religion.  One 
result  of  this  fusion  was  that  though  the  Zoroastrians  made  no  visible  representation  of  their 
God,  the  temples  of  Armenia  were  full  of  images,  brought  from  Mesopotamia,  Asia  Minor,  and 
Greece. 

The  principal  god  of  Armenia  was  Aramazd,  whom  the  Armenians  called  "  the  Archi- 
tect of  the  Universe,  Creator  of  Heaven  and  Earth."  He  was  also  the  father  of  the  other  gods. 
The  Armenians  annually  celebrated  the  festival  of  this  god  on  the  ist  day  of  Navasard,'  when 
they  sacrificed  white  animals  of  various  kinds — goats,  horses,  mules,  with  whose  blood  they 
filled  goblets  of  gold  and  silver.  The  most  prominent  sanctuaries  of  Aramazd  were  in  the 
ancient  city  of  Ani  in  Daranali,  the  burial-place  of  the  Armenian  kings,  as  well  as  in  the  village 
of  Bagavan  in  Bagravand.^ 

Aramazd  had  an  attendant  incorporeal  spirit,  named  Tir  or  Grogh  ("  writer  "),  whom  he 
sent  to  earth  to  watch  men  and  record  in  a  book  their  good  and  evil  deeds.  After  death, 
human  souls  were  conducted  by  Tir  to  Aramazd,  who  opened  the  book  at  each  soul's  record, 
in  accordance  with  which  he  assigned  a  reward  or  punishment.  In  a  village  near  Vargharshapat 
there  was  a  temple  of  this  god,  where  the  priests  interpreted  dreams  after  consulting  his  oracle. 
The  influence  of  Tir  was  great  in  Armenia,  for  he  was  a  personification  of  hope  and  fear.  There 
are  traces  of  the  cult  of  this  god  in  the  Armenian  language.  It  is  still  usual  to  hear,  used  as  a 
curse,  the  expression,  "  May  Grogh  take  you  !  "  The  son  of  Aramazd  was  Mihr,  Fire.  He 
guided  the  heroes  in  battle  and  conferred  wreaths  on  the  victors.  The  word  mehian  ("  temple  ") 
is  derived  from  Mihr ;  also  some  Christian  names.  One  of  the  months  in  the  ancient  Armenian 
calendar  (Mehekan)  was  named  after  him.    His  commemoration-day  was  celebrated  with 

■  Navasard  fell,  according  to  the  later  calendar  of  pagan  Armenia,  in  August. 
2  See  Agathangelos  (fourth  century  a.d.). 
137 


Armenia 

great  splendour  at  the  beginning  of  spring.  Fires  were  kindled  in  the  open  market-place  in 
his  honour,  and  a  lantern  lighted  from  one  of  these  fires  was  kept  burning  in  his  temple  through- 
out the  year.  This  custom  of  kindling  fires  in  the  spring  is  still  observed  in  some  parts  of 
Armenia." 

Although  the  Persians  and  the  Armenians  were  both  worshippers  of  Mihr,  the  concep- 
tions and  observances  of  the  two  nations  differed.  The  Armenian  sacred  fire  was  invisible,  but 
the  Persian  was  material  and  was  kept  up  in  all  the  temples.  For  this  reason  the  Armenians 
called  the  Persians  fire- worshippers.  But  the  Armenians  had  also  a  visible  fire-god,  who, 
although  material,  was  intangible — the  sun — to  which  many  temples  were  dedicated  and 
after  which  one  of  the  months  (Areg)  was  named. 

Long  after  the  introduction  of  Cliristianity,  there  was  a  sect  of  sun-worshippers  existent 
in  Armenia,  who  were  called  "  Children  of  the  Sun."  A  small  remnant  of  them  is  still  supposed 
to  be  found,  dwelling  between  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates.  Traces  of  sun-worship  are  also 
evident  in  the  Armenian  language  and  in  the  Armenian  literature  of  Christian  times.  Some 
sayings  and  phrases  are  still  in  use  which  contain  references  to  sun-worship,  such  as  the 
expression  of  endearment,  "  Let  me  die  for  your  sun  !  "  and  the  oath,  "  Let  the  sun  of  my 
son  be  witness." 

One  of  the  most  famous  Armenian  goddesses  was  Anahit,  who  answered  to  the  Greek 
Artemis  and  the  Roman  Diana.  She  was  a  "  pure  and  spotless  goddess,"  and,  as  a  daughter 
of  Aramazd,  was  **  mother  of  chastity,"  as  well  as  the  benefactress  of  the  whole  human 
race ;  "  through  her  the  Armenian  land  exists,  from  her  it  draws  its  Hfe ;  she  is  the  glory 
of  our  nation  and  its  protectress  " " ;  and  for  her  the  ancient  Armenians  felt  intense  love 
and  adoration. 

Many  images  and  shrines  were  dedicated  to  her  under  the  names  of  "  the  Golden  Mother,"  ^ 
"  the  Being  of  Golden  Birth,"  etc.  Every  summer  there  was  a  festival  in  her  honour.  On  that 
day,  a  dove  and  a  rose  were  offered  to  her  golden  image,  whence  the  day  was  called  Vardavar, 
which  means  "  the  flaming  of  the  Rose."  On  the  introduction  of  Christianity,  the  temple  of 
Anahit  was  destroyed  and  her  festival  became  the  Feast  of  the  Transfiguration  of  Christ ;  it 
falls  in  the  last  days  of  the  year  according  to  the  ancient  Armenian  calendar ;  but  the 
name  "  Vardavar  "  still  remains  and  doves  are  still  set  flying  on  that  day.    This  is  also 

'  Annual  bonfires  are  kindled  by  Armenians  on  the  festival  of  Candlemas,  or  the  Purification  of  the  Blessed  Virgin 
Mary  (February  13/2). 

2  Agathangelos. 

3  Statues  of  massive  gold  were  consecrated  to  her,  one  of  which  was  captured  by  the  soldiers  of  Antony  (Pliny,  H.  N., 
XXX.  24). 

128 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

the  Armenian  "  water-day/'  during  which  the  people  amuse  themselves  throwing  water  at 
each  other.' 

Anahit  was  sought  also  in  cases  of  great  sickness. 

The  sister  of  Anahit  was  Astghik,^  the  goddess  of  beauty,  a  personification  of  the  moon, 
corresponding  to  the  Phoenician  and  Sidonian  Astarte.  Strange  to  say,  the  Persians  had  no 
goddess  of  beauty,  but  the  bright  sky  of  Armenia,  its  numerous  valleys,  the  torrents  running 
down  from  snow-capped  mountains,  the  lakes,  the  cultivated  fields  and  meadows  tended  to 
strengthen  the  sense  of  beauty,  and,  therefore,  Armenia  had  a  goddess  of  beauty,  who  was  not 
to  be  found  in  the  pantheon  of  the  neighbouring  country. 

The  Armenians  assigned  Astghik  a  husband  worthy  of  her.  He  was  Vahagn,  deified  on 
account  of  his  valour.  In  ancient  songs,  he  is  credited  with  a  miraculous  birth.  The  fires  of 
heaven  and  earth,  and  the  sea  crimson  in  the  light  of  dawn,  travailed  to  bring  him  into  being.^ 
As  we  shall  see  later,  Moses  of  Khorene  has  preserved  portions  of  these  songs.  Vahagn  was 
called  Vishapakagh  (Uprooter  of  dragons),  as  he  cleared  the  Armenian  land  of  monsters  and 
saved  it  from  evil  influences.  His  exploits  were  known  not  only  in  Armenia,  but  in  the  abode 
of  the  gods.  Having  stolen  corn  from  the  barns  of  King  Barsham  of  Assyria,  he  ran  away  and 
tried  to  hide  himself  in  heaven.  From  the  ears  he  dropped  arose  the  Milky  Way,  which  is 
called  in  Armenia  the  Track  of  the  Corn-stealer. 

The  third  daughter  of  Aramazd  was  Nane  or  Noone,  She  was  the  goddess  of  contrivance. 
It  was  believed  by  the  Armenians  that  contrivance  was  a  necessary  power  for  a  woman,  because, 
in  the  management  of  the  household,  she  had  to  make  big  things  out  of  small  ones,  and  circum- 
stances were  already  against  her  on  account  of  the  vicissitudes  which  Armenia  was  constantly 
undergoing. 

Sandaramet,  the  wife  of  Aramazd,  was  an  invisible  goddess  and  a  personification  of  the 
earth.  Aramazd  sent  rain  upon  her,  which  brought  forth  the  vegetation  on  the  earth.  She  came 
to  be  a  synonym  of  Hades  and  was  very  frequently  referred  to  as  such  in  theological  books  and 
in  the  hymnary  of  the  Christian  Church. 

Besides  these  gods  of  their  own,  the  Armenians  also  adopted  alien  divinities.    When 

'  At  each  festival,  the  Armenians  had  to  show  what  progress  they  had  made  during  the  past  year,  in  art  and  in  other 
occupations,  and  races  and  other  competitions  took  place,  the  victors  being  crowned  with  wreaths  of  roses.  When  the  doves 
were  set  flying  the  High  Priest  sprinkled  the  people  with  the  waters  of  the  Aradzani — a  tributary  of  the  Euphrates — and  the 
people  in  their  turn  sprinkled  each  other.  The  customs  dated  back  to  traditions  of  the  deluge — that  universal  baptism  with 
which  God  cleansed  all  the  sinful  earth,  and  the  same  expression  of  love  and  forgiveness  is  manifested  in  the  presence  of  the 
dove  at  the  baptism  of  Jordan.  See  Raffi's  Samuel,  chap.  ix. 

*  Astghik  means  in  Armenian  "  little  star." 

3  It  is  a  curious  coincidence  that  Venus,  the  Greek  goddess  of  beauty,  was  also  the  wife  of  a  fire-god,  Vulcan. 
129 


Armenia 

Tigranes  brought  a  number  of  Phoenicians  to  Armenia  as  prisoners,  they  brought  with  them 
their  god  Ammon,  from  whose  name  comes  the  word  Ammonor,'^  *'  the  day  of  Ammon  " — the 
New  Year.  Assyrian,  Arab,  and  other  emigrations  also  led  to  the  introduction  of  foreign  deities. 
An  Armenian  king,  when  he  brought  home  captives,  also  introduced  the  gods  of  those  captives, 
whose  images  were  placed  in  the  temples  beside  those  of  the  native  gods  that  they  most  closely 
resembled.  Even  Indian  fugitives  brought  the  brother-gods,  Demetr  and  Gisanes,  whose 
images  were  not  like  those  of  the  other  gods  of  Armenia,  for  the  images  of  the  gods  of  Armenia 
are,  as  a  rule,  small,  whereas  these  were  very  tall,  with  long  black  hair  and  black  faces.  There 
was  also  a  great  immigration  of  Jews  into  Armenia,  and  this  influenced  the  Armenians  in  the 
direction  of  monotheism.  Besides  the  principal  gods,  there  were  also  secondary  ones.  These 
were  spirits,  corresponding  to  angels,  who  acted  as  guardians  to  different  classes  of  natural 
objects  : — Kadjk,'  who  occupied  the  mountains ;  Parik,  who  presided  over  flocks ;  and  many 
others. 

Water  was  honoured  in  Armenia  as  a  masculine  principle.  According  to  Tacitus  (Annals, 
vi.  37)  the  Armenians  offered  horses  as  sacrifices  to  the  Euphrates,  and  divined  by  its  waves 
and  foam.  Sacred  cities  were  built  around  the  river  Araxes  and  its  tributaries.  Even  now  there 
are  many  sacred  springs  with  healing  powers,  and  the  people  always  feel  a  certain  veneration 
towards  waters  in  motion. 

There  were  gods  who  lived  in  the  waters  and  destroyed  harmful  monsters  of  the  deep. 
There  was  also  a  god  who  breathed  out  a  mysterious  atmosphere  which  destroyed  malignant 
creatures.  One  wonders  whether  this  is  a  foreshadowing  of  the  fear  of  microbes.  All  the  gods 
of  this  class  were  friendly  to  agriculturists. 

There  were  also  "  Haurot-Maurot,"  the  name  of  a  flower  (hyacinthus  racemosus  Dodonei) 
first  mentioned  by  Agathangelos.  The  Arabs  incorporated  them  in  the  Quran  {ii.  96)  as  two 
angels  sent  down  to  live  in  Babel  in  human  circumstances. 

Alk,  who  dwelt  in  the  waters,  was  a  very  harmful  devil.  He  used  to  live  in  the  corners  of 
houses  and  stables,  and  in  damp  places.  He  had  eyes  of  fire,  nails  of  copper,  teeth  of  iron,  and 
the  jaws  of  a  wild  boar.  He  carried  a  sword  of  iron  in  his  hand  and  was  a  bitter  enemy  to 
pregnant  women,  near  whom  he  sat  at  the  time  their  child  was  born. 

There  were  nymphs,  who  were  guardians  of  women.  They  wandered  through  gardens 
and  amid  streams,  but  were  invisible.  They  attended  weddings  and  frequented  bath- 
rooms and  the  women's  quarters  in  general.    These  nymphs  and  spirits  were  innumerable. 

'  Some  say  that  Ammanor  was  an  ancient  Armenian  god  and  not  foreign. 
*  Kadjk  means  in  Armenian  "  brave  ones." 
130 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

Every  woman  was  supposed  to  have  a  guardian  nymph.  The  nymphs  were  supposed  by  some 
to  be  immortal  and  endowed  with  perpetual  youth  ;  others  described  them  as  mortal  though 
they  never  grew  old.  There  was  also  a  group  of  male  spirits  who  were  regarded  by  some  as 
mortal,  by  others  as  immortal.  They  wandered  with  the  nymphs  through  forests,  gardens,  and 
other  open  places.  They  were  imagined  as  very  tall,  with  features  like  those  of  men ;  some 
were  half-man  and  half-animal.  Some  were  called  Parik,  "  dancers  " ;  others  Hushka  parik, 
*'  dancers  to  a  melody  in  a  minor  key." 

In  some  places,  even  now,  a  belief  in  these  nymphs  (or  fairies)  survives.  Many  stories 
are  told  of  their  beauty,  their  marvellous  dancing,  and  their  wondrous  music.  They  are  never 
called  by  the  name  of  "  nymphs,"  but  are  spoken  of  by  the  people  of  the  country  as  "  our 
betters."  Still  in  some  parts  of  Armenia,  in  May  and  October,  a  festival  is  held  annually  in 
honour  of  them,  generally  by  the  women  in  the  Public  Baths.  They  assemble  early  in  the 
morning  and  remain  till  late  at  night,  dancing,  eating,  and  bathing. 

Before  the  people  thought  of  building  temples,  they  worshipped  their  gods  in  forests  and 
on  mountains.  One  of  these  forests  was  the  Forest  of  Sos.  According  to  tradition  the  son  of 
Ara  the  Beautiful,  Anushavan,  who  devoted  himself  to  the  worship  of  this  sacred  place,  was 
called,  after  the  forest,  Sos.  The  priests  derived  oracles  from  the  rustling  of  the  leaves  in  this 
holy  wood. 

Besides  temples,  which  were  numerous  in  Armenia,  there  were,  all  over  the  country,  altars 
and  shrines,  as  well  as  images  and  pictures. 

To  sum  up,  the  pre-Christian  religion  of  Armenia  was  at  first  a  kind  of  nature-worship, 
which  developed  into  polytheism.  There  were  two  elements  in  Armenian  religion,  the  native 
and  the  foreign. 

Besides  nature-worship,  there  was  a  recognition,  among  the  Armenians,  of  the  Good  and 
Evil  Spirit,  but  predominance  was  given  to  the  former.  It  is  curious  that,  in  the  Armenian 
pantheon,  there  is  no  god  of  evil,  and  Armenian  epic  heroes  are  always  described  as  fighting 
against  evil  spirits. 

In  Armenian  epics,  the  immortals  stand  in  the  background,  the  most  prominent  place 
being  assigned  to  legendary  heroes,  to  whom  poets  attribute  divine  descent,  thus  tracing  the 
origin  of  the  Armenian  race  to  the  gods.  Unfortunately,  the  greater  part  of  these  epics  is  lost, 
though  a  few  fragments  are  preserved,  in  their  original  shape,  by  Moses  of  Khorene. 

The  following  is  one  of  these  fragments,  which  gives  the  general  conception  of  the  gods 
and  the  heroes  descended  from  them  : — 

"  Glorious  and  awful  were  the  former  gods.  They  were  the  cause  of  the  greatest  blessings 
131 


Armenia 

of  the  earth ;  also  of  the  beginning  of  the  world  and  the  generations  of  men.  From  them  arose 
a  race  of  giants^  with  great  limbs,  fantastical,  of  stupendous  stature,  who,  in  their  arrogance, 
conceived  the  impious  idea  of  tower-building.  But  by  the  wrath  of  the  gods,  a  mighty  wind 
arose,  overthrowing  and  shattering  the  structure.  The  speech  of  men  was  confused ;  there 
was  general  bewilderment." 

Among  the  giants  mentioned  in  this  passage  was  Haik,  the  brave  and  illustrious  chief — 
a  famous  archer,  who  is  the  patronymic  hero  of  Armenia,  and  is  described  by  Moses  of  Khorene 
as  having  curly  hair  and  being  beautiful  to  look  upon,  with  brawny  arms,  well-set  shoulders, 
and  fiery  eyes.  Recoiling  from  submission  to  Belus,  he,  with  his  followers,  went  northwards 
to  the  foot  of  a  mountain,  where  they  took  up  their  abode,  Belus  sent  emissaries  to  him,  bearing 
the  following  message  : — 

*'  Thou  hast  departed  and  hast  settled  in  a  chill  and  frosty  region.  Soften  thy 
hard  pride,  change  thy  coldness  to  geniality ;  be  my  subject,  and  come  and  live  a  life  of  ease 
in  my  domain.  Thus  shalt  thou  find  pleasure." 

Haik's  answer  was  to  prepare  for  combat.  The  fights  between  Haik  and  Belus  are  minutely 
recounted.  The  dress  of  the  two  champions,  their  looks,  their  weapons,  are  all  described  in 
detail.  At  last  Belus  was  vanquished  and  slain  by  his  adversary. 

Before  the  time  of  Moses  of  Khorene,  Haik  was  known  as  a  great  hunter  like  the  Greek 
Orion.  In  the  passages  in  Job  and  Isaiah  where  "  Orion  "  appears  in  the  English  Bible  as  the 
name  of  a  constellation,  "  Haik  "  appears  in  the  Armenian  version. 

The  country  that  Haik  conquered  was  named  Hayastan,  after  him. 

He  was  succeeded  by  Armenak,  who  extended  the  boundaries  of  his  kingdom.  This 
expansion  is  thus  described  by  Moses  of  Khorene  : — 

"  Armenak,  taking  with  him  all  his  host,  goes  to  the  north-east.  He  descends  on  a  plain 
siUTOunded  by  high  mountains,  through  which,  from  the  west,  murmuring  streams  flow.  The 
plain  extends  towards  the  east.  From  the  foot  of  the  mountains  gush  springs  no  less  limpid, 
mingling  together  to  form  little  rivers,  which,  with  gentle  flow,  run  round  the  edge  of  the 
plain,  parallel  to  the  base  of  the  mountains. 

"  But  the  southern  mountain,  with  its  white  peak,  at  first  rises  straight  up  ;  afterwards  it 
curves,  looking  beside  the  other  heights  like  a  hoary  stooping  elder  amid  youths." 

Armenak  was  succeeded  by  Aramais.  This  king  took  up  his  abode  on  a  hill  beside  a  river, 
where  he  built  a  town  which  he  named  Aramavir.  The  river  he  called  by  the  name  of  his 
grandson,  Araxes.  He  had  a  son,  named  Shara,  who  was  a  glutton  and  had  an  immense 
number  of  children.   He  sent  him  to  a  very  fertile  place  which  was  called,  after  him,  Shirak. 

132 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

Moses  of  Khorene  quotes  a  proverb  relating  to  Shara : — "  If  thou  hast  the  gullet  of  a  Shara, 
our  stores  are  not  the  stores  of  a  Shirak." 

Shara  had  a  son,  Amasa.  After  him  Mount  Ararat  was  named  "  Masis." 

Moses  of  Khorene  mentions  another  descendant  of  Haik,  whose  name  was  Tork.  He  was 
ugly  and  of  tremendous  strength.  He  was  able  to  break  great  stones  with  his  hands.  Once, 
when  he  was  on  the  shore  of  the  Sea  of  Pontus,  he  hurled  huge  rocks  at  the  ships  of  his  enemies 
and  sank  them.  This  incident  reminds  us  of  the  Cyclops  Polyphemus,  in  the  Odyssey.  Tork 
had  also  artistic  proclivities.  After  dividing  large  stones  with  his  hands,  he  smoothed  them 
with  his  nails,  and  with  his  nails  covered  them  with  drawings  of  eagles  and  other  pictures.' 

Then  the  historian  gives  a  table  of  royal  names  down  to  Aram,  whom  he  describes  as 
industrious  and  patriotic,  and  who  said  that  he  would  rather  die  for  his  fatherland  than  endure 
the  sight  of  strangers  devastating  it.  He  collected  an  army  of  50,000  and  drove  the  foreign 
invaders  out  of  Armenia.  Epic  poems,  according  to  Moses  of  Khorene,  praise  Aram's 
valour  in  his  conflicts  with  Barsham,  King  of  Assyria,  whom  he  eventually  subdued.  He 
was  succeeded  by  Ara  the  Beautiful. 

The  romantic  love  of  Semiramis  for  this  king,  which  was  a  favourite  theme  of  ancient 
Armenian  song  and  epic,  is  elaborately  recounted  by  Moses  of  Khorene.  A  translation  of  his 
narrative  is  given  on  page  23  of  this  volume.  There  are  several  variants  of  this  story,  which 
is  still  related  in  Armenia,  and  the  names  of  many  places  as  well  as  many  superstitions  can  be 
traced  to  it. 

Semiramis  invited  Ara  to  Nineveh  to  be  her  husband,  promising  him  the  half  of  the 
kingdom,  but  Ara  refused  her  offer,  having  a  wife  already.  Semiramis  thereupon  sent  an 
army  against  Ara,  with  orders  to  capture  the  king  alive  and  bring  him  to  her ;  but,  instead  of 
the  living  king,  they  brought  his  corpse.  Semiramis,  who,  as  is  well  known,  was  wont  to 
practise  magic,  laid  the  body  on  a  certain  high  place,  in  order  that  the  gods  might  descend  and 
restore  it  to  life  by  licking  the  wounds.  This  height  is  still  called  Lezk,  and  in  former  times 
others  used  it  for  the  same  purpose  as  Semiramis.  The  idea  of  this  mode  of  cure  probably 
originated  from  the  fact  that  wounded  men,  lying  unconscious  on  the  battlefield,  have  often 
been  revived  by  the  licking  of  dogs  and  other  animals. 

In  Moses  of  Khorene  we  find  this  story  about  the  childhood  of  Sanatruk.  One  day,  he, 
under  the  care  of  his  mother  and  his  nurse,  was  walking  among  the  mountains  of  Kordua, 
when  suddenly  a  high  wind  arose,  accompanied  by  a  snowstorm,  and  separated  the  mother 

'  Zarmair,  another  king  of  this  dynasty,  took  part  in  the  defence  of  Troy.  The  historian  emphasises  the  fact  that  he 
was  killed  by  Achilles  himself. 

133 


Armenia 

from  her  son.  For  three  days  and  nights  the  nurse  and  the  child  were  buried  in  the  snow,  but 
the  gods  sent  a  miraculous  white  animal  which  rescued  them  and  brought  them  home 
alive." 

But,  though  such  legends  as  these  may  have  some  foundation  in  fact,  there  are  others  that 
are  entirely  fabulous,  like  the  following,  which  is  related  by  Moses  of  Khorene  : — 

The  heir  to  the  principality  of  Ardzruni,  when  a  boy,  fell  asleep  in  the  open  air.  A  storm 
of  rain  came  on  and  drenched  him ;  and  then  the  hot  sun  shone  down  and  scorched  him  with 
its  rays ;  whereupon  an  eagle  flew  up  and  hovered  over  his  head  with  outspread  wings, 
sheltering  him  from  the  assaults  of  nature. 

In  the  fourth  century  A.D.,  we  find  a  similar  story  told  of  Prince  Mushegh  Mamikonian. 
After  his  death  his  relatives  put  his  body  on  a  high  tower,  believing  that  the  spirits  would 
descend  and  restore  him  to  life.  This  story  is  found  in  Faustus  Byzand  (a.d.  337-384). 

The  animals  figuring  in  such  stories  as  these  are  not  represented  as  merely  adjuncts  to 
man,  but  as  independent  individuals  who  act  in  accordance  with  their  own  characters  and 
inclinations.  Plato,  in  his  Republic,  gives  a  slightly  different  version  of  the  legend  of  Ara.  Er 
was  an  Armenian  (or,  as  some  commentators  say,  "  The  son  of  Armenios  "),  a  native  of  Pam- 
phylia.  He  was  slain  in  battle,  and  ten  days  afterwards,  when  the  bodies  of  the  dead  were 
taken  up,  already  in  a  state  of  corruption,  his  body  was  found  unaffected  by  decay  and  carried 
away  home  to  be  buried.  And  on  the  twelfth  day,  as  he  was  lying  on  the  funeral  pile,  he 
returned  to  life  and  told  them  what  he  had  seen  in  the  other  world. 

The  name  "  Er  "  is  evidently  a  variant  of  Ara.  The  story,  as  told  by  Plato,  has  all  the 
features  of  a  transplanted  legend. 

Moses  of  Khorene  says  that,  after  the  death  of  Ara  the  Beautiful,  Semiramis  passed  the 
rest  of  her  days  in  Armenia,  which  place  she  greatly  loved.  Here  she  established  the  city  of 
Van.  A  picturesque  account  of  its  foundation  given  by  the  historian  is  included  in  this 
volume  (page  33). 

The  following  account  is  given  of  the  end  of  Semiramis  : — 

Being  pursued  by  her  enemies,  she  ran  away  on  foot,  and,  becoming  thirsty,  she  stopped  to 
drink  water  from  the  Lake  of  Van.  Here  she  was  overtaken  by  the  "  swordsmen,"  whereupon, 
after  taking  off  her  magic  bracelet  and  throwing  it  into  the  lake,  she  herself  was  turned  into  stone. 

•  It  is  interesting  to  recall,  in  this  connection,  some  passages  of  Strabo.  Speaking  of  Armenia  he  says : — "  It  is  said 
that  people  passing  by  the  foot  of  the  mountains  are  often  buried  in  the  snow  which  falls  from  the  summits.  In  order  to 
be  prepared  for  such  a  mishap,  travellers  carry  with  them  two  long  sticks  for  the  purpose  of  making  breathing  places  for 
themselves,  should  they  be  covered  by  the  snow.  The  sticks,  at  the  same  time,  serve  as  signals  to  any  other  travellers  who 
may  happen  to  be  passing." 

134 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

With  regard  to  the  bracelet  of  Semiramis,  the  following  story  is  even  now  commonly 
told  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Van  ; — 

Once  Semiramis  saw  a  bracelet  in  the  hands  of  some  little  boys,  who  had  found  it  in  the 
river,  and  were  examining  it  with  curiosity.  Semiramis,  knowing  that  the  bracelet  had  magic 
powers,  took  it  away  from  the  children.  By  means  of  this  jewel,  she  allured  youths  to  their 
destruction.  This  licentiousness  brought  her  into  general  disfavour.  An  old  man,  at  last, 
snatched  the  bracelet  from  her  and  ran  with  it  towards  the  sea.  Semiramis  rushed  after  him 
in  a  fury,  but,  not  being  able  to  come  up  with  him,  she  let  down  her  long  hair  and  used  it  as 
a  sling  to  hurl  a  great  rock  at  him.  The  weight  of  the  rock  pulled  out  her  hair.  The  rock 
itself  fell  into  a  ditch  near  Artamet.  Semiramis,  through  fear  and  amazement,  was  turned 
into  stone.  The  old  man  threw  the  bracelet  into  the  Lake  of  Van.  Even  now  a  rock  is  shown 
at  Artamet  which  bears  the  name  of  "  the  Rock  of  Semiramis." 

Then  Moses  of  Khorene  speaks  of  Tigranes  /,,  who,  in  conjunction  with  Cyrus,  put  an 
end  to  the  kingdom  of  Media.  The  epics  say  of  Tigranes  that "  his  face  was  of  lovely  hue,  his 
eyes  were  soft  and  lustrous,  his  shoulders  stalwart,  the  calves  of  his  legs  were  well-shaped,  he 
was  altogether  fair  to  look  upon  ;  in  food  and  drink  he  was  moderate  j  he  was  of  lofty  mind, 
eloquent  in  speech,  and  masterly  in  the  conduct  of  affairs.  Just  and  equitable,  he  weighed  each 
man's  acts  in  the  scale  of  his  mind.  He  was  not  jealous  of  the  great  nor  did  he  despise  men 
of  low  estate,  but  spread  the  mantle  of  his  care  over  all  men  alike.  He  increased  our  treasures 
of  gold,  silver,  and  precious  stones.  Under  him,  men  and  women  wore  fine  garments,  of 
divers  colours,  richly  embroidered,  which  made  the  ill-favoured  to  look  fair  and  the  beautiful 
to  look  like  demi-gods. 

"  Tigranes,  the  bringer  of  peace  and  prosperity,  caused  all  men  to  grow  fat  with  butter  and 
honey.  In  his  day,  the  infantry  became  cavalry,  slingers  became  skilful  archers,  dagger- 
bearers  were  equipped  with  swords,  and  naked  soldiers  were  provided  with  shields  and 
armour." 

The  historian  adds  that  the  splendour  of  the  arms  and  equipments  was  enough  of  itself 
to  drive  back  the  enemy. 

As  the  head  of  a  band  of  warriors,  he  performed  many  valorous  deeds  : — "  We  were  under 
the  yoke  of  others,  but  he  put  other  nations  under  our  yoke  and  made  them  our  tributaries." 

His  rival,  Astyages,  King  of  Media,  was  always  suspicious  and  distrustful  of  him. 

One  night  Astyages  had  a  terrible  dream.  The  next  morning  he  summoned  his  courtiers. 
They  found  him  sighing,  looking  on  the  ground  with  gloomy  mien,  and  heaving  groans  from 
the  depths  of  his  heart.  "  When  the  courtiers  inquired  the  reason  of  his  behaviour  "  (continues 

135 


Armenia 

the  historian)  **  the  king  remained  silent  for  hours,  then  in  a  sad  voice  he  related  his  dream> 
which  was  as  follows  : — 

"  '  To-day  I  was  in  an  unknown  country,  close  to  a  mountain,  which  rose  very  high  above 
the  ground ;  its  summit  was  covered  with  ice.  It  seemed  to  me  to  be  in  Armenia.  After  I  had 
gazed  for  a  long  time,  it  appeared  to  me  that  there  was  a  woman  sitting  on  the  summit.  Her 
garments  were  purple.  Her  face  was  covered  by  a  blue  veil.  Her  eyes  were  beautiful.  She  was 
tall,  with  rosy  cheeks.  She  was  in  travail,  and  for  a  long  time  I  looked  on  her  with  admiration, 
then  I  beheld  her  give  birth  to  three  heroes,  all  of  equal  stature  :  the  first,  sitting  on  a  lion, 
soared  towards  the  west ;  the  second,  seated  on  a  leopard,  went  towards  the  north  ;  the  third, 
bridling  a  huge  dragon,  defiantly  attacked  our  kingdom.  In  these  confused  dreams,  I  seemed 
to  be  standing  on  the  roof  of  my  palace,  and  the  covering  of  my  chambers  was  adorned  with 
beautiful  fountains  of  variegated  colours.  The  gods  that  had  crowned  me  were  standing  there, 
with  wondrous  faces,  and  I,  with  you,  was  honouring  them  with  incense  and  sacrifice. 
Suddenly  looking  up,  I  saw  the  man  who  was  seated  on  the  dragon  wing  his  course  in  our 
direction,  desiring  to  overthrow  our  gods.  I  advanced  to  the  attack  and  engaged  in  fight  with 
that  youthful  hero.  First  of  all,  with  lances  we  pierced  each  other's  bodies,  calling  forth 
rivers  of  blood,  and  past  our  sunlit  palace  flowed  a  crimson  sea.  For  hours  we  fought  also 
with  other  arms.  But,  to  be  brief,  the  fight  ended  in  my  defeat.  I  was  bathed  in  sweat,  sleep 
forsook  me,  and  ever  since  I  have  felt  as  if  I  had  no  life  in  me.  For  all  these  visions  signify 
that  the  Armenian  king,  Tigranes,  is  about  to  attack  us.  And  whosoever  amongst  you,  by 
counsel  or  deeds,  wishes  to  aid  me,  and  aspires  to  the  honour  of  being  a  king,  equal  to  myself, 
let  him  speak.'  " 

Then  the  story  goes  on  to  tell  how  Astyages,  in  order  to  prevent  Tigranes  from  making 
war  on  him,  proposed  that  his  rival's  sister,  Tigranuhi,  should  be  his  wife  ;  therefore  Astyages 
sent  to  Tigranes  one  of  his  councillors  with  a  letter  accompanied  by  many  precious  gifts.  Moses 
of  Khorene  gives  the  letter,  which  runs  as  follows  : — 

"  Thou  knowest,  beloved  brother,  that  of  all  the  gifts  of  the  gods  to  us  none  is  more 
precious  than  the  multitude  of  our  dear  ones,  especially  when  they  are  wise  and  valiant.  The 
reason  of  this  is  that,  in  such  case,  quarrels  will  not  arise  from  outside,  and  if  they  arise,  they 
will  be  unable  to  make  their  way  within  and  will  disperse  themselves.  Having  seen  the  great 
advantage  of  such  relationships,  it  has  entered  my  mind  to  confirm  and  strengthen  the  love 
that  is  between  us,  so  that,  both  of  us  being  secured  on  all  sides,  we  may  be  able  to  carry  on 
the  affairs  of  our  kingdom  in  greater  safety.  All  this  will  be  ensured,  if  thou  wilt  give  me  to 
wife  thy  sister  Tigranuhi,  the  Great  Lady  of  Armenia.   I  hope  that  thou  wilt  look  favourably 

136 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

on  this  proposal,  that  she  may  be  the  Queen  of  Queens.  Mayest  thou  have  a  long  life,  fellow 
sovereign  and  dear  brother." 

We  have  presented  this  letter  as  a  matter  of  curiosity,  because  in  none  of  the  early 
European  epics  are  there  texts  of  letters.  This  usage  is  characteristically  oriental.  In  Isaiah 
we  read  of  the  letter  of  Sennacherib  to  Hezekiah ;  there  is  also  a  letter  in  the  Persian  Firdusi's 
Shah-nameh. 

After  his  marriage  with  Tigranuhi,  Astyages  tried  to  set  her  at  enmity  with  her  brother, 
and  once  he  contrived  cunningly  to  entice  Tigranes  to  become  his  guest  in  order  that  he  might 
slay  him.  But  his  wife  perceived  his  treachery  and  secretly  sent  a  message  to  her  brother. 
Tigranes  accepted  the  invitation  of  Astyages,  but  came  accompanied  by  a  great  army.  He 
postponed  his  attack  till  his  sister  had  made  her  escape.  In  the  battle  which  ensued,  Astyages 
was  killed. 

Of  this  Tigranes,  Xenophon  says  a  great  deal  in  his  Cyropaedia,  from  which  we  dte  the 
following  incident : — 

The  Armenian  king  having  revolted  against  Cyrus,  the  latter  invaded  Armenia  and 
conquered  him.  Cyrus  intended  to  deal  very  severely  with  the  rebel  monarch,  but  Tigranes, 
the  son  of  the  Armenian  king,  persuaded  him  to  be  more  lenient.  Xenophon  gives  a  long 
conversation,  discussing  the  terms  of  peace,  in  the  course  of  which  Cyrus  asked  Tigranes, 
who  was  newly  married  and  greatly  loved  his  wife,  what  he  would  give  to  regain  her 
freedom,  she  having  fallen  into  the  hands  of  the  victor,  together  with  the  other  women  of 
the  royal  family.  "  Cyrus,"  was  the  Prince's  reply,  "  to  save  her  from  servitude,  I  would 
lay  down  my  life." 

On  which  Cyrus  replied  : "  Take,  then,  thine  own,  for  I  cannot  reckon  that  she  is  properly 
our  captive,  for  thou  didst  never  flee  from  us."  Then,  turning  to  the  king,  he  added  :  "  And 
thou,  Armenian,  take  thy  wife  and  children,  without  paying  anything  for  them,  that  they  may 
know  they  come  to  thee  freely," 

On  the  return  of  the  king  and  prince,  after  this  interview,  there  was  much  talk  at  the 
Armenian  court  about  Cyrus  ;  one  spoke  of  his  wisdom,  another  of  his  patience  and  resolution, 
another  of  his  mildness  ;  one  also  spoke  of  his  beauty,  his  fine  figure  and  lofty  stature,  where- 
upon Tigranes  turned  to  his  wife,  saying  :  "  Dost  thou  think  Cyrus  handsome  $*  " 

"  Indeed,"  she  answered, "  I  never  looked  at  him."  "  At  whom,  then,  didst  thou  look  f* " 
asked  Tigranes.  "  At  him,"  was  the  reply,  "  who  said  that,  to  save  me  from  servitude,  he 
would  give  his  own  life." 

137  L 


Armenia 

Of  all  the  epics  from  which  Moses  of  Khorene  has  derived  incidents  or  of  which  he  gives 
fragments,  the  only  one  that  has  survived  among  the  people  in  complete  form,  with  numerous 
variants,  is  Sasmadzrer,  There  is  a  reference  in  the  Bible  to  the  story  which  is  related  in  this 
poem. 

In  2  Kings  xix.  37,  and  Isaiah  :xxxvn.  38,  we  read  : — 

"  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  he  (Sennacherib)  was  worshipping  in  the  house  of  Nisroch  his 
god,  that  Adramelech  and  Sharezer,  his  sons,  smote  him  with  the  sword ;  and  they  escaped 
into  the  land  of  Armenia." 

Moses  of  Khorene  tells  the  same  story,  adding  that  the  Armenian  king  assigned  an  abode 
to  Sharezer  in  the  south  of  Armenia  and  to  Adramelech  in  the  south-east. 

The  epic,  referred  to  above,  relates  the  doings  of  the  two  brothers  and  their  descendants 
in  Armenia,  among  the  rest  the  founding  by  them  of  the  city  of  Sassoon. 

The  poem  is  divided  into  four  parts.  It  is  still  transmitted  orally,  word  for  word,  in 
Armenia ;  in  many  places  in  poetical  form.  During  the  last  forty  years,  several  versions  of  it 
have  been  taken  down  in  writing  and  published,  and  these  have  received  much  attention  from 
scholars.  We  cannot  do  more  than  mention  this  most  interesting  production ;  the  space  at 
our  disposal  forbids  our  giving  even  an  outline  of  its  contents. 

So  far  we  have  derived  our  information  from  the  prose  versions  of  passages  in  the  epics 
found  in  Moses  of  Khorene  either  as  quotations  or  as  paraphrased  in  his  own  words.  But  that 
historian  has  also  given  a  few  extracts  from  the  poems  in  their  original  form,  being  the  first 
historian  to  do  so.  To  these  extracts  we  now  turn. 

Although  they  are  very  few,  they  convey  some  idea  of  ancient  Armenian  poetry.  The 
historian  says  he  has  himself  heard  these  poems  sung  to  the  accompaniment  of  various  musical 
instruments,  of  which  he  gives  long  and  minute  descriptions.  According  to  him,  these  poems 
were  sung  chiefly  in  the  province  of  Goghtan  (the  present  Agulis,  in  Russian  Armenia).  This 
place  abounded  in  gardens  and  vineyards,  and  produced  a  variety  of  good  wines.  The  people 
were  gay  and  fond  of  merry-making.  Their  love  of  the  old  pagan  religion  and  manners  still 
continued  long  after  their  conversion  to  Christianity.  In  this  respect  they  resembled  the 
Saxons  of  Germany,  and,  even  in  the  early  part  of  the  fifth  century,  they  observed  pagan  rites, 
sometimes  openly,  sometimes  secretly.  One  of  the  old  Armenian  songs,  describing  the  birth  of 
the  Armenian  king  Vahagn,  is  given  in  this  volume,  page  10.  This  is  supposed  to  be  a  myth 
describing  the  rise  of  the  sun  over  the  sea. 

At  sunrise  the  sky  gradually  becomes  light ;  between  the  light  and  the  darkness  there  is  a 
138 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

kind  of  struggle  ;  all  nature  is  waiting  in  expectancy  of  a  life-giving  power,  of  the  rising  of  the 
sun.  It  seems  to  be  this  expectancy  of  nature  and  man  that  the  poet  likens  to  the  travail  of 
heaven,  earth,  and  sea.  The  '*  crimson  reed  "  is  perhaps  the  long  red  gleam  sent  forth  from  the 
East  over  the  sea  at  dawn. 

We  have  already  referred  to  Vahagn  when  dealing  with  Armenian  mythology.  In  the 
Armenian  translation  of  the  Bible,  in  2  Maccabees  iv.  19,  the  name  "  Vahagn  "  is  substituted 
for  "  Hercules."  This  name  is  derived  from  the  Sanscrit  words  vah,  "  to  bring,"  and  agn, 
"  fire,"  and  therefore  means  "  fire-bringer."  In  connection  with  this,  it  is  interesting  to 
compare  the  Armenian  legend  with  a  similar  legend  in  the  Rig-Veda.  The  word  "  Agni "  is 
the  same  as  "  Agn."  The  god  Agni  was  born  of  the  rising  sun,  to  the  accompaniment  of 
thunder  and  lightning ;  of  Vahagn  the  song  says :  "  Out  of  the  flame  sprang  the  child."  "  His 
hair  was  of  fire  and  a  beard  had  he  of  flame  "  ;  Agni  had  "  flaming  hair  and  a  golden  beard." 
A  comparison  of  the  two  poems  shows  that  the  similarity  between  them  arises,  not  from  the 
imitation  of  one  poet  by  the  other,  but  from  identity  of  theme,  for  the  belief  in  a  fire-god  or 
fire-hero  is  common  to  all  mythologies.  According  to  Agathangelos,  Vahagn  was  a  favourite 
deity,  and  his  temple  at  Taron  was  famous.  King  Tiridates,  when  greeting  the  Armenian 
people  in  a  manifesto,  says :  "  May  Vahagn,  of  all  Armenia,  send  you  courage ! "  He  puts  the 
name  of  Vahagn  after  the  names  of  Arama2;d  and  Anahit.  But,  in  Moses  of  Khorene,  Vahagn 
is  little  more  than  an  ordinary  king,  the  son  of  Tigranes  I.,  though  the  historian  gives  the  story 
of  his  birth  and  his  fights  with  dragons,  as  related  by  the  poets.  He  also  calls  Vahagn  the  first 
of  the  Vahuni  or  priestly  caste  ;  but  this  caste  was  far  more  ancient  than  the  historian  thinks, 
as  sun  worship  is  one  of  the  oldest  forms  of  religion.' 

Moses  of  Khorene  says,  moreover,  that  there  was  an  image  of  Vahagn  in  Georgia,  where 
he  was  worshipped  as  a  god. 

'  Cf.  the  original  text  of  the  Armenian  poem  which  is  as  follows  : — 

.  bpi,Hr  If (fZ-i-  i^  ypktc  Erkner  erkin  ev  erkir 

bp4i.t(.  t  if,pu.tfi  hnii.  Erkner  ev  dzirani  dzov 

bpif-b   [,  hn-fn^h  nubtf,  Erkn  i  dzovun  uner 

Hiiiipjplii,  t,,i,i,^^»,  Zkarmrik  eghegnikn. 

Ci-T  bqbfu.i,  ^„,i,  in^fu  ft^«,i,tf  ■  Und  eghegan  pogh,  dzukh  elaner 

Cbif  t^&f.b  ^„,j,  p„j  fri-Kbtp,  Und  eghegan  pogh,  botz  elaner, 

bu  '^  fo^n/b  ui,uiaw^ubii(iii  i/uif^ji,  Ev  i  botzuin  patanekik  vazer, 

^.u.  4oi^.  C,i,p  oLitp,  Na  hur  her  uner, 

fkuim  /»t  p„,  oLttp  •Sopni.a'  Apa  te  faotz  uner  morus 

b-.  u,ii»ci,^t,  t/ii  „p4,„4„..i,^  ■),,  Ev  achkunkn  ein  aregakunk. 


Armenia 

As  to  the  form  of  this  poem — ^we  note  the  parallelism,  similar  to  that  of  the  old  Hebrew 
songs  :  "  To  Sisera  aprey  of  diverse  colours,  a  prey  of  diverse  colours  of  needlework,  of  diverse 
colours  of  needlework,  on  both  sides  "  (Judges  v.  30)/ 

The  Song  of  Deborah,  from  which  we  have  just  quoted,  is  supposed  to  be  the  oldest 
passage  in  the  Bible,  and  is  a  good  specimen  of  ancient  oriental  poetry. 

The  songs  quoted  in  Moses  of  Khorene  are  also  examples  of  this  poetry,  and  will  there- 
fore be  welcome  to  scholars,  as  throwing  light  on  this  class  of  ancient  literature. 

The  ancient  Armenian  form  of  verse  has,  doubtless,  its  own  national  peculiarities.  One 
of  its  characteristics  is  that  it  consists  of  one  main  idea  expressed  in  two  or  more  sentences, 
regularly  connected  with  one  another.  There  are  no  complex  sentences,  only  short  simple 
ones,  and  the  maimer  of  expression  is  direct  and  definite,  but,  in  order  that  they  may  not  tire  the 
ear  by  monotony,  they  are,  by  means  of  parallelism,  systematically  interwoven  so  as  to  form 
one  consistent  whole.  Thus  the  different  sentences  become  related  to  one  leading  thought.  The 
words  are  carefully  chosen  and  harmonious  to  the  ear.  Metaphor  and  allegory  abound.  In 
colour  and  splendoiu:  these  songs  might  vie  with  any  classical  poem,  and  their  existence  is  a 
proof  that  long  before  the  Christian  era  the  Armenians  had  a  perfected  poetical  language, 
which,  in  its  construction,  imaginative  force,  brilliancy,  and  grammatical  development,  bears 
the  impress  of  literary  culture. 

Most  of  the  nouns  and  adjectives  in  this  poem  are  in  the  diminutive  form,  which  expresses 
endearment : — 

karmrik  =  reddish  egheknik  =  little  reed  patanekik  =  little  boy 

achkunk  =  little  eyes  aregakunk  =  little  suns 

The  adjectives  used  here  do  not  qualify  the  nouns,  but  simply  serve  as  epithets,  or  attri- 
butes, like  the  adjectives  in  the  Homeric  poems.  The  Armenian  word  dzirani,'  used  in  this 
poem,  does  not  always  mean  "  red  ";  applied  to  a  robe  it  means  "  red,"  applied  to  a  belt  it 
means  "  variegated  "  ;  it  may  originally  have  had  the  sense  of  "  pleasing  "  (cf.  Russian  krasni, 
which  originally  meant  "  beautiful/'  but  now  denotes  only  "  red-coloured  "). 

'  The  following  lines  from  a  Chaldean  description  of  Ut-napisti,  the  Chaldean  Noah's  sacrifice  after  the  Flood,  furnish 
an  example  from  Assyrian  poetry  : — 

"  The  gods  smelled  a  savour, 
The  gods  smelled  a  sweet  savour. 
The  gods  gathered  like  flies  over  the  sacrifice." 
*  Dziran  in  Armenian  means  "  apricot,"  therefore  dziram="  of  apricot  colour." 
140 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

Another  of  these  extant  songs,  belonging  to  the  time  before  the  Christian  era,  has,  as  its 
theme,  the  love  story  of  King  Artashes  IL,  one  of  the  greatest  kings  of  the  Arsacid  dynasty. 
The  former,  as  well  as  all  the  other  stories  we  have  mentioned,  belong  to  the  Haika2;ian  dynasty, 
but  the  story  of  Artashes  II.  belongs  to  the  Arsacid  dynasty  and  is  contained  in  the  second 
book  of  Moses  of  Khorene,  the  contents  of  which  are  less  legendary  than  those  of  the  first  book. 
When  narrating  the  story  of  Artashes,  the  historian  addresses  himself  to  Sahak  Bagratuni,  by 
whose  command  his  history  was  written,  in  these  terms  : — 

"  The  doings  of  Artashes  are  known  to  thee,  through  the  epical  songs  which  are  sung  in 
the  province  of  Goghtan ;  that  is  to  say,  his  founding  of  Artaxata  (Artashat),'  his  alliance 
by  marriage  with  the  royal  house  of  the  Alans,  his  sons  and  their  descendants,  the  loves  of 
Satenik  with  the  Vishapazuns  (progeny  of  dragons)  who  were  of  the  race  of  Astyages  ;  his  wars 
with  them,  the  overthrow  of  their  dynasty,  their  slaughter,  the  burning  of  their  palaces,  the 
rivalries  of  the  sons  of  Artashes,  the  intrigues  of  their  wives,  which  further  fomented  the 
discord  amongst  them.  Although  these  things  are  well  known  to  thee  through  the  epical  songs, 
I  will,  nevertheless,  narrate  them  again  and  will  explain  their  allegorical  meaning." 

Then  Moses  of  Khorene  gives,  in  detail,  a  prose  account  of  the  deeds  of  Artashes  and  his 
son  Artavazd,  as  they  are  related  in  the  epic  of  Artashes,  quoting,  in  the  course  of  his  narrative, 
the  songs  given  in  this  volume  on  pages  48  and  49. 

Besides  these  songs,  there  are  included  in  the  history  two  or  three  metrical  lines,  which 
must  be  extracts  from  the  epic.  One  of  these  lines  contains  the  reply  of  the  Alan  king  when 
he  is  asked  to  give  his  daughter  in  marriage  to  Artashes  :  "  From  whence  shall  brave  .  .  ." 
(see  for  the  rest  page  48,  the  last  lines,  in  this  volume).  The  same  poem  contains  a  description 
of  the  wedding  (see  page  49  of  this  volume). 

We  learn  from  ancient  Armenian  historians  that  weddings  were  times  of  great  festivity, 
especially  royal  weddings.  All  the  people  of  the  country,  old  and  young,  were  astir.  In  the 
great  square  they  danced  and  sang,  hand  in  hand.  There  was  a  special  kind  of  song  sung  on 
these  occasions,  called  "  T^utzk." 

The  marriage  of  Satenik  was  unhappy,  because,  besides  the  Vishapazuns,  she  loved 
Argavan,  the  chief  of  the  Median  prisoners,  who  was  greatly  honoured  by  Artashes.  Another  of 
the  verses  quoted  by  Moses  of  Khorene  refers  to  this  amour  of  Satenik.  These  lines  throw 
some  hght  on  the  nature  of  ancient  Armenian  metre.  We  quote  the  text  here  : — 

'  Strabo  says  about  Artaxata  that  it  was  built  upon  a  design  which  Hannibal  gave  to  King  Artaxes  (Artashes),  who  made 
it  the  capital  of  Armenia,  and  Tournefort,  the  famous  French  botanist,  who  travelled  in  Armenia  in  the  seventeenth  century, 
exclaims,  in  reference  to  this  fact :  "  Who  could  have  imagined  that  Hannibal  would  come  from  Africa  to  Armenia  to  be 
engineer  to  an  Armenian  king  i    But  so  it  is." 

141  L2 


Armenia 

"  Tencha  Satenik  tenchans 
Zartakhoir  khavart 
Ev  ztitz  khavardzi 
I  bardzitzn  Argavana." 

The  sense  of  the  passage  is  not  very  clear^  as  it  contains  two  words  the  signification  of  which 
is  disputed.  M.  Emin  holds  that  the  meaning  of  these  two  words  is  the  same,  both  signi- 
fying "  crown/'  and  he  interprets  the  line  as  saying  that  Satenik  loves  Argavan  so  dearly 
that  she  would  gladly  exchange  her  royal  crown  for  his  princely  diadem.  After  much 
controversy  among  scholars,  Professor  Khalatian  discovered  that,  in  one  Armenian  dialect, 
these  words  are  the  names  of  certain  plants,  about  which  there  was  a  superstition  that, 
if  they  were  put  under  the  pillow  of  the  beloved  being,  and  afterwards  under  the  pillow 
of  the  lover,  mutual  affection  would  be  ensured ;  therefore,  according  to  Professor 
Khalatian,  the  passage  means  that  Satenik  was  desirous  of  getting  these  plants  from  under 
Argavan's  pillow. 

In  the  time  of  Artashes  science  and  poetry  flourished. 

One  of  the  sons  of  this  king,  Vroir,  was  a  poet ;  another  was  Artavazd,  who  was  disliked 
by  the  people.  The  poem  says  that,  when  the  prince  was  born,  the  Vishapazuns  stole  him,  and 
substituted  a  devil  in  his  place,  and  it  was  this  evil  spirit  that  went  by  the  name  of  Prince 
Artavazd. 

In  this  poem,  also,  there  is  an  account  of  the  obsequies  of  Artashes,  which  were  celebrated 
with  great  splendour,  for  he  was  dearly  beloved  by  his  subjects,  many  of  whom  committed 
suicide  at  his  grave,  not  caring  to  survive  him.  His  son  Artavazd,  who  was  present,  became 
very  jealous  and  uttered  a  complaint  which  Moses  of  Khorene  gives  in  the  words  of  the  epic 
(see  page  65  of  this  volume). 

We  have  omitted  many  other  incidents  of  the  story  of  Artashes,  as  given  by  Moses  of 
Khorene,  but  it  may  be  gathered,  from  what  we  have  of  the  Artashes  epic,  that  the  whole  poem 
was  very  lengthy. 

From  other  sources  we  know  that  the  poem  was  sung  by  minstrels  as  late  as  the  eleventh 
century,  for  the  well-known  scholar  of  that  time,  Grigor  Magistros,  says  in  one  of  his  writings 
that  he  has  heard  it,  and  he  quotes  some  of  its  lines  in  their  original  form. 

Artashes  died  in  a  foreign  country  while  engaged  in  a  campaign.  In  his  last  moments 
he  is  seized  with  home-sickness,  as  he  remembers  his  fatherland.  He  recalls  the  spring  of  life 
and  of  the  year,  when  the  light  of  dewy  morn,  like  a  thin  mist,  is  spreading  over  the  towns  and 
villages.  The  poem  gives  his  dying  words  : — 

143 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

"  Who  will  give  me  the  smoke  of  the  chimneys  and  the  morn  of  Navasard/ 
The  running  of  the  stag  and  the  coursing  of  the  deer  S" 
We  sounded  the  horn  and  beat  the  drum 
As  is  the  manner  of  kings." 

We  have  already  said  that  Artashes  was  a  popular  king,  much  beloved  by  his  people,  whose 
death  was  greatly  lamented ;  this  being  so,  no  doubt  the  Artashes  epic  must  have  contained 
some  striking  dirges,  composed  in  honour  of  this  monarch,  but  unfortunately  neither  Moses 
of  Khorene  nor  Grigor  Magistros  records  any  such  songs  in  connection  with  him.  The  despair 
and  melancholy  which  cast  their  shadow  over  pagans  is  conspicuous  in  ancient  Armenian 
funeral  songs.  There  were  companies  of  professional  mourners,  called  egheramark  ("  mothers 
of  lamentation  ")*  also  there  were  groups  of  singing  maidens.  All  these  followed  the  corpse, 
dressed  in  black,  with  dishevelled  hair,  solemnly  clapping  their  hands  and  moving  in  a  slow 
dance.  Moses  of  Khorene  gives  details  of  such  obsequies  as  we  have  mentioned.  Even  now  in 
some  parts  of  Armenia  such  companies  of  mourners  exist.  Faustus  Byzand  describes  minutely 
the  funeral  of  a  prince  and  gives  also  an  account  of  the  funeral  of  Queen  Tigranuhi,  of  whom 
we  have  already  spoken,  adding  that  the  songs  sung  in  her  praise,  on  this  occasion,  were  such 
that  Tigranes  felt  that  they  uttered  all  that  was  passing  in  his  own  mind. 

The  subjects  of  funeral  songs  were  the  life  of  the  deceased,  his  stature,  the  manner 
of  his  death,  and  his  domestic  relations,  so  that  a  collection  of  these  songs  would  furnish 
a  biography. 

We  have  also  details  of  these  dirges  from  other  sources.  The  song  opens  with  a  prologue, 
addressing  the  deceased  and  calling  on  him  to  arise  from  his  slumbers  and  carry  on  his  usual 
occupations.  It  then  goes  on  to  rebuke  him  for  being  deaf  to  the  prayers  of  the  survivors  and 
vouchsafing  neither  word  nor  smile.  Next  comes  a  description  of  the  new  dwelling  that  the 
departed  has  chosen  for  himself ;  the  grave — an  abode  without  doors  or  windows.  Then  comes 
a  repetition  of  the  words  spoken  by  the  dead  man  during  his  last  illness,  followed  by  a  series 
of  laudatory  epithets,  and  finally  there  is  the  recognition  that  all  prayers  for  his  recovery  have 
been  unanswered,  followed  by  an  epilogue,  taking  farewell  of  the  deceased  and  sending 
messages  by  him  to  dead  relatives  and  friends. 

We  learn  from  Moses  of  Khorene  that,  in  his  time,  besides  the  epics,  there  was  other  pre- 
Christian  Armenian  literature,  written  and  unwritten,  of  various  kinds.  We  have  had  examples 
of  songs  and  epical  stories  in  their  gradual  development  from  the  stage  when  man  was  weak  and 
ignorant,  when  the  people  sought  after  the  supernatural  and  the  marvellous,  and  the  subject 

'  April,  when  the  New  Year  commenced. 
143 


Armenia 

of  epic  songs  was  the  mystic  relation  between  nature  and  man,  to  the  stage  when  the  heroes 
are  no  longer  gods,  but  men  endowed  with  valour  and  every  other  virtue,  without  spot  or  flaw. 
The  stories  we  have  described  are  sufficient  to  prove  that  Armenia  had  a  large  store  of  epic  and 
heroic  poems,  of  which  unhappily  only  fragments  have  come  down  to  us. 

Some  specimens  of  other  branches  of  pre-Christian  literature  figuring  in  the  list  of  Moses 
of  Khorene  are  Temple  Books  and  Histories  of  Temples.  Throughout  ancient  times  members 
of  the  priestly  class  were  the  chroniclers  of  the  nation's  history  and  its  instructors  in  wisdom ; 
and  there  is  no  doubt  that  this  was  the  case  in  Armenia.  We  know  that  the  famous  Gnosticos 
Bardazan,  in  the  second  century  a.d.,  came  to  Armenia  to  collect  material  for  his  history,  and 
in  the  fortress  of  Ani  he  made  extracts  from  the  Temple  History,  which  was  a  chronicle  of  the 
doings  of  the  Armenian  kings. 

Armenia  had  its  own  written  histories  which  were,  for  the  most  part,  destroyed  on  the 
introduction  of  Christianity  in  the  fourth  centuryA.D.  Moses  of  Khorene  mentions  an  Armenian 
historian  named  Ughup,  who  was  a  priest  presiding  over  the  temple  of  Ani  in  150  B.C. 

To  continue  the  list — we  find  Books  of  the  Kings,  containing  chronicles  of  kings  and  their 
works,  and  Collections  of  Historical  Songs,  which  were  kept  in  the  temples.  These  collections 
were  in  existence  in  the  fifth  century  a.d.  Moses  of  Khorene  gives  extracts  from  them  and 
they  were  also  sung  by  minstrels. 

Tueliatz  Songs  recounted  the  doings  of  kings  and  princes  in  chronological  order, 
hence  their  name,  Tueliatz,  or  chronicles. 

There  were  also  other  species  of  literature,  such  as  Historical  Legends,  not  included  in  the 
list,  from  which  Moses  of  Khorene  makes  quotations  elsewhere,  such  as  the  History  of  the 
Origin  of  the  Bagratuni  Race,  the  History  of  Haik,  and  four  other  books,  without  titles,  of  which 
he  speaks  with  great  admiration. 

There  is  mention  of  a  poet,  by  name  David,  who  wrote  The  Wars  between  Armenia  and 
Media,  founding  his  narrative  on  Armenian  minstrel  songs.  Unfortunately,  none  of  his  works 
have  come  down  to  us. 

There  is  also  mention  of  an  Armenian  translation,  from  the  Greek,  of  an  epic  called 
Legends  of  Aramasdes  and  Hermia.  Some  scholars  think  that  this  must  be  one  of  the  lost  books 
of  Homer,  as  there  are  still  extant  some  fragments  of  an  Armenian  translation  of  the  Homeric 
poems. 

The  Hindoos  believed  that  originally  dramas  were  invented  by  the  gods  and  were  per- 
formed in  heaven.  They  were  brought  to  earth  by  Brahma  and  introduced  to  men.  Whether 
the  ancient  Armenians  held  a  similar  belief  we  cannot  tell,  but  it  appears  that  they  had,  in 

144 


Its   Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

early  times,  a  drama  of  their  own.  The  themes  of  their  plays  were  the  doings  of  the  gods  of 
the  earth,  but  there  is  no  record  that  in  Armenia  drama  ever  reached  such  a  high  level  as  it 
attained  in  Greece.  It  may  be  noticed  that,  though  Persia,  the  neighbour  of  Armenia,  was  rich 
in  lyric  and  epic  poetry,  it  produced  no  dramatic  literature.  It  is  true  that,  in  Mohammedan 
times,  the  Persians  had  a  religious  drama ;  but  this  merely  formed  part  of  their  worship  and 
has  never  had  an  independent  development. 

But  the  Armenians  must  have  done  better,  as  mention  is  made  of  Armenian  drama  by 
Greek  and  Roman  writers,  from  whom  we  learn  that  King  Artava^d  L'  wrote  tragedies,  some  of 
which  were  known  to  Plutarch.  We  also  learn  from  Plutarch  and  others  that,  in  the  time  of 
Tigranes  II.,  there  were  theatres  in  Armenia,  and  Plutarch  records  that,  when  Lucullus 
entered  Tigranocerta,  he  found  a  body  of  actors  busily  engaged  in  preparing  to  produce  a 
drama  in  the  theatre  newly  built  by  Tigranes,  and  made  use  of  them  in  the  games  and  other 
public  diversions  in  honour  of  his  victory.  Armenian  historians  also  make  mention  of  the 
theatres  in  Armenia.  As  late  as  the  fifth  century  A.D.,  Hovhannes  Mandakuni,  a  religious  author, 
wrote  an  essay  against  theatres  and  actors,  which  shows  that,  even  after  the  introduction  of 
Christianity,  drama  survived  in  Armenia. 

At  later  periods,  in  Law  Books,  restrictions  on  theatres  are  mentioned. 

In  order  to  determine  the  date  of  the  Heroic  Poems,  we  must  define  the  different  periods 
of  Armenian  history.  It  is  now  generally  accepted  by  scholars  that,  towards  the  end  of  the 
seventh  century  B.C.,  the  Vannic  or  Chaldean  kingdom  fell  before  the  invading  hordes  of 
Cimmerians  or  Scythians,  and,  during  the  period  of  anarchy,  Armenians  also  entered  the 
country,  which  was  henceforth  to  bear  the  name  of  "  Armenia."  The  only  uncertainty  with 
regard  to  this  migration  is  about  the  date.  It  is  universally  agreed  that  it  cannot  have 
been  later  than  the  seventh  century  B.C.,  though  it  may  have  been  earlier.  In  the  fifth 
century  B.C.  Xenophon  found  Armenia  an  established  kingdom  under  Tigranes  I.  Vahe 
was  the  last  of  the  Haikazian  dynasty.  He  fell  in  the  war  with  Alexander  the  Great  in 
330  B.C. 

The  next  Armenian  dynasty  was  that  of  the  Arsacidae,  of  which  the  first  king  was 
Wagharshag  I.,  whose  reign  began  in  149  B.C. 

All  the  epical  songs  that  we  have  mentioned  belong  to  the  Haikazian  period,  except  the 
Artashes  Cycle,  which  belongs  to  the  Arsacid  period.  During  the  185  years  between  these  two 
periods,  there  was  no  national  independence  to  supply  themes  for  new  epics  and  therefore 
there  is  no  heroic  poetry  belonging  to  this  interval. 

'  The  son  of  Tigranes  the  Great. 
145 


Armenia 

The  second  period  of  Armenian  literature  (before  the  establishment  of  Christianity) 
extends  from  the  accession  of  the  Arsacid  dynasty  to  the  fourth  century  a.d. 

During  this  period^  learning  flourished  and  the  libraries  in  the  temples  and  palaces  were 
the  centre  of  culture.  The  libraries  in  palaces  were  open  to  any  one  who  wished  to  consult 
the  archives  with  a  view  to  writing  histories  of  the  countries,  and  in  the  temples  the  priests  were 
engaged  in  compihng  records  of  the  past.  In  these  libraries  the  histories  of  the  Haikazian 
dynasty  were  kept.  To  this  period  belongs  the  epic  of  Artashes. 

Under  the  rule  of  the  Arsacidae,  the  number  of  the  nobles  greatly  increased  and  the  chief 
amusement  of  the  king  and  the  nobihty  was  sport.  Nearly  every  noble  had  his  own  park, 
which  was  full  of  all  kinds  of  deer  and  in  which  special  sporting  parties  were  given.  One  of 
the  chief  attractions  of  these  parties  was  the  minstrels  who  sang  songs  specially  composed  for 
the  occasion.  As  upwards  of  seventy  families  were  ennobled  under  the  Arsacidae,  and  enter- 
tainments were  given  both  by  them  and  by  those  of  lower  rank,  it  will  be  understood  that  the 
number  of  minstrels  must  have  been  large. 

As  we  have  mentioned,  to  this  period  belongs  the  Artashes  Cycle  (a.d.  85-126). 

We  have  also  some  evidence  as  to  the  date  of  the  epics  from  foreign  sources.  Armenian 
epics  must  have  been  known,  not  only  in  Armenia  itself,  but  in  other  countries.  In  migration, 
their  form  must  sometimes  have  changed,  as,  in  Plato,  we  have  found  the  legend  of  Ara 
transformed  into  the  story  of  Er.  As  the  story  of  Ara  was  known  to  Plato,  we  may  take  for 
granted  that  it  existed  in  the  fourth  century  B.C. 

Strabo  gives  an  erroneous  etymology  of  the  name  "  Armenia,"  which  he  derives  from 
*'  Armenios."  '  Perhaps  he  had  heard  of  Aram,  whose  story  is  told  in  the  epics.  This  story  is 
known  to  us  through  Moses  of  Khorene,  who  derives  the  word  "  Armenia  "  from  Aram,  and 
says  that  the  country  was  called  by  this  name  only  by  foreigners.  As  to  the  etymology  of  the 
word  "  Armenia,"  there  are  many  different  opinions  which  we  cannot  discuss  here  ;  we  will 
only  say  that  the  name  "  Armenia  "  is  found  in  an  inscription  of  Darius  Hystaspes 
(510  B.C.). 

We  confine  ourselves  to  one  more  foreign  reference  to  Armenian  epics,  viz.,  that  of  the 
philosopher  Olympiodorus,  who,  in  an  assembly  of  wise  men  at  Athens,  gave  an  account  of 
an  old  book  which  had  existed  in  former  times  and  which  contained  the  history  of  Noah 
and  his  descendants.  He  added  that  the  incidents  related  in  this  book  were  still  sung  by 
Armenian  minstrels  to  the  accompaniment  of  various  musical  instruments. 

' "  Armenios,  one  of  the  Argonauts,  who  was  believed  to  have  been  a  native  of  Rhodes  or  of  Armenion  in  Thessaly, 
and  to  have  settled  in  the  country  which  was  called  after  him,  Armenia  "  (Strabo,  xi.  530,  etc. ;  Justin,  xlii.  2  ;  Steph.  Byz. 
S.  V.  Ap/tfcio). 

146 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

We  have  frequently  quoted  Moses  of  Khorene,  whose  work  contains  all  the  extant  remains 
of  the  epics  and  all  the  information  that  has  come  down  to  us  with  regard  to  these  poems. 
In  fact  the  first  book  of  his  History,  as  well  as  the  first  nine  chapters  of  Book  IL,  consists 
of  summaries  and  quotations  from  epics,  together  with  other  legends.  In  taking  leave  of  the 
pre-Christian  period  of  Armenia  let  us  cast  a  glance  on  this  historian  and  his  work. 

Moses  of  Khorene  was  born  some  time  between  a.d.  404  and  408.  He  was  one  of  those 
young  Armenians  who  were  sent  by  the  ecclesiastical  authorities  to  Greece  for  higher  educa- 
tion. After  completing  his  studies,  he  worked  in  the  libraries  of  Alexandria,  Palestine,  and 
other  places.  On  his  return  from  Palestine,  he  was  shipwrecked  on  the  coast  of  Italy ;  thence 
he  went  to  Rome,  Athens,  and  Byzantium,  returning  to  Armenia  about  440.  He  found  his 
benefactors  dead,  the  Arsacid  dynasty  extinct,  and  Christianity  endangered  by  the  Persians.  It  is 
said  that  on  his  return  he  was  so  disappointed  in  both  the  clergy  and  the  laity — being  especially 
grieved  by  the  ignorance  of  the  former — that  he  retired  into  solitude  and  remained  concealed 
for  some  time.  It  happened  that  the  Catholicos  Gute,  while  travelling,  alighted  at  a  certain 
village  where  he  was  entertained  by  the  peasants,  each  of  whom  made  a  short  speech  in  his 
honour.  An  old  man  who  was  of  the  company  was  urged  also  to  say  something.  At  first  he 
excused  himself  on  the  plea  that  he  was  a  stranger,  but,  on  being  further  pressed,  to  the 
surprise  of  all  present,  he  recited  an  impromptu  ode  greeting  the  Catholicos  and  ended  by 
disclosing  his  identity,  proclaiming  himself  Moses  of  Khorene.  At  first  the  Catholicos  was 
incredulous,  but,  on  a  careful  examination  of  the  old  man's  features,  he  recognised  him  as 
one  of  his  former  fellow-students,  whereupon  he  burst  into  tears  and  held  him  in  a  long 
embrace. 

That  day  was  one  of  great  rejoicing  in  Armenia,  and,  soon  after,  Moses  became  Bishop  of 
Bagravand. 

These  Armenian  students  educated  abroad  were  looked  on  askance  by  some  of  the 
ignorant  clergy,  and,  for  this  reason,  some  of  the  former  used  to  retire  and  study  in  seclusion. 
In  his  History,  Moses  of  Khorene  inveighs  bitterly  against  these  illiterate  priests. 

Ghazar  Pharpe  says  : — 

"  Moses,  the  philosopher  of  blessed  memory,  met  with  much  opposition  and  annoyance 
from  the  unlearned  clergy,  who  called  this  enlightened  man  a  heretic,  and  in  their  ignorance 
found  fault  with  his  books,  besides  performing  many  unfriendly  acts  towards  him." 

After  this  passage,  several  pages  of  the  manuscript  are  missing.  The  next  page  we  have 
begins  : — 

"  They  exhumed  his  bones  from  the  grave  and  threw  them  into  the  river." 
147 


Armenia 

It  is  doubtful  whether  these  words  refer  to  Moses  or  to  some  one  else. 

Moses  of  Khorene  attempted  to  write  the  history  of  two  or  three  thousand  years,  beginning 
with  dark  and  unknown  ages,  weaving  his  materials  in  such  a  way  as  to  produce  a  vivid  and 
life-like  picture,  tinged  with  the  colours  of  all  the  centuries  which  he  depicts.  He  writes  in 
poetic  language  and  his  style  is  simple  and  picturesque.  Every  event  recorded  by  him  becomes 
beautiful,  noble,  and  great.  There  is  not  a  paragraph,  not  a  sentence,  which  falls  below  the 
general  level  of  the  work.  The  History  is  a  marvellous  panorama,  which,  as  it  unfolds,  fills  us 
with  ever  fresh  wonder  and  admiration.  The  story  of  Tiridates  is  narrated  in  such  a  way  as 
to  draw  tears  from  every  reader  and — to  use  an  Armenian  expression — to  make  him  feel  as 
if  the  hairs  of  his  head  had  turned  into  thorns.  He  speaks  with  such  warm  admiration  of 
Tigranes  that  it  might  be  thought  he  was  speaking  of  a  contemporary. 

In  the  following  passage  he  displays  strong  feeling,  in  reference  to  one  of  his  teachers 
whom  he  found  dead  on  his  return  from  abroad. 

"  Where  is  the  calm  of  those  gentle  eyes,  which  to  the  just  gave  rest,  and  inspired  the 
guilty  with  awe  ^ 

"  Where  is  the  smile  of  his  cheerful  lips,  as  he  met  his  pupils  < 

"  Where  is  the  hope  that  enlivened  the  tedium  of  weary  journeys  <;  that  gave  repose  in 
the  midst  of  labour  ^ 

"  How  shall  I  write  my  tragedy  S*  and  who  is  there  to  weep  at  it  5*  " 

One  sees  by  his  writing  that  Moses  was  a  man  of  strong  character,  with  firm  principles, 
neither  vacillating  nor  superficial.  The  reader  is  profoundly  impressed  by  his  words  ;  they 
sink  deeply  into  him,  pressing  like  lead  on  a  tablet,  and  casting  him  under  the  spell  of  the 
author.  This  effect  is  due,  in  part,  to  his  convincing  power ;  it  is  impossible  not  to  realise 
what  he  records.  His  statements  are  concise ;  what  others  would  take  pages  to  express,  he 
conveys  in  a  few  words.  In  descriptive  powers  he  is  unrivalled,  not  only  among  Armenians, 
but  even  as  compared  with  Greek  and  Roman  historians.  His  graphic  pictures  of  people  and 
places,  together  with  his  remarks  and  reflections  and  his  frequent  quotations  from  the  national 
epics,  prove  his  historical  skill  and  literary  taste. 

In  a  word,  as  one  reads  him,  one  feels  him  to  be  a  genius  of  the  first  magnitude. 

Moses  of  Khorene  wrote  his  History  at  the  request  of  Sahak  Bagratuni,  a  man  of  noble  or 
princely  birth.  The  History  consists  of  three  books.  Book  I.,  as  we  have  already  said,  is  mainly 
based  on  national  epics  and  legends.  Although  these  relate  only  to  a  few  heroes,  the  treatment 
is  very  elaborate. 

Then  comes  the  history  of  i8o  years,  over  which  he  passes  very  lightly,  merely  giving  a 
148 


Its   Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

list  of  names,  with  a  few  words  added  to  each.  This  shows  that,  for  this  period,  he  has  not  been 
able  to  find  any  material  in  the  native  epics  and  songs. 

Book  11.  relates  to  the  Arsacid  dynasty,  speaking  also  of  the  introduction  of  Christianity, 
and  going  on  to  the  death  of  Tiridates  and  of  Gregory  the  Illuminator. 

Book  III.  contains  the  history  of  the  successors  of  Tiridates  up  to  the  sad  end  of  the 
Arsacid  dynasty.  This  book  ends  with  a  long  lament  over  the  pitiful  plight  of  Armenia.  It 
contains  also  a  bitter  invective  against  the  author's  contemporaries — princes,  judges,  clergy, 
soldiery — in  short  against  all  who,  being  careless  of  duty  and  regardless  of  the  ideal,  lead  the 
people  astray. 

Moses  of  Khorene  has  left  other  works  besides  his  History,  one  of  which  is  a  Geography, 
containing,  among  other  things,  an  account  of  the  British  Isles. 

For  1400  years,  the  History  of  Moses  of  Khorene  was  revered  and  accepted  as  the  only 
authentic  History  of  Armenia ;  and  it  was  not  till  the  nineteenth  century  that  criticism  was 
directed  against  it,  not  only  by  Armenian  scholars,  but  also  by  French,  German,  Italian, 
English,  and  Russian  scholars.  This  criticism  was  chiefly  levelled  at  the  principal  source  from 
which  the  Armenian  historian  professed  to  draw  his  information. 

Arshak  the  Great,  according  to  Moses,  after  casting  off  the  Macedonian  yoke  and  con- 
quering Assyria,  set  his  brother,  Wargharshak,  on  the  throne  of  Armenia.  So  commences  the 
Arsacid  dynasty.  The  new  king  wished  to  know  what  kind  of  men  had  been  ruling  the 
country  before  him.  Was  he  (he  asked)  the  successor  of  brave  men  or  of  bad  men  i  He  found 
an  intelligent  man,  a  Syrian,  named  Mar-Abas-Katina,  and  sent  him  to  his  brother,  Arshak 
the  Great,  with  this  letter  : — 

"  To  Arshak,  the  king  of  the  earth  and  the  sea,  whose  form  and  person  are  like  unto  the 
gods  and  whose  triumphs  are  above  those  of  all  kings ;  the  greatness  of  whose  mind  can 
fathom  all  things  of  earth,  Wargharshak,  thy  youngest  brother  and  comrade  in  arms,  appointed 
by  thee  King  of  Armenia,  greeting.    Victory  ever  attend  thee. 

"  I  have  received  from  thee  the  behest  to  encourage  bravery  and  wisdom.  I  have  not 
forgotten  thy  counsel.  On  the  contrary,  I  have  done  all  that  my  mind  could  devise  or  my  skill 
carry  into  effect,  and  now,  thanks  to  thy  guardianship,  I  have  put  this  country  in  order.  And 
next  I  want  to  know  who,  before  myself,  has  subdued  the  land  of  Armenia,  and  from  whom 
are  descended  the  noble  families  who  are  established  here.  There  does  not  seem  to  be  any 
fixed  grade  of  classes ;  among  the  chief  men,  it  is  impossible  to  ascertain  which  is  highest 
and  which  lowest ;  so  that  some  confusion  ensues.  I  therefore  beg  that  the  archives  may 
be  opened  in  the  presence  of  this  man  whom  I  have  sent  to  present  himself  in  thy  great 

149 


Armenia 

country,  in  order  that  he  may  bring  back  the  information  that  is  desired  by  thy  son  and 
brother." 

This  Syrian  (says  the  historian)  found  in  the  library  at  Nineveh  a  book  translated 
from  the  Chaldean  into  Greek,  by  order  of  Alexander  the  Great,  which  contained  various 
ancient  histories.  From  this  book  Mar- Abas  copied  only  the  authentic  history  of  Armenia, 
which  he  took  back  to  Wargharshak,  who,  esteeming  this  document  his  most  precious 
treasure,  preserved  it  with  great  care  in  his  palace  and  engraved  part  of  it  on  a  stone 
monument. 

It  is  this  document  of  Mar-Abas-Katina  that  Moses  of  Khorene  cites  as  his  chief  authority 
for  the  early  authentic  history  of  Armenia,  though  he  also  mentions  several  other  native  and 
foreign  writers  as  sources  of  his  work. 

With  regard  to  these  statements,  critics  point  out  that  the  library  of  Nineveh  was  not  in 
existence  in  the  second  century  B.C.,  as  it  was  destroyed  in  625  B.C. ;  some  even  maintain  that 
Mar-Abas-Katina  was  a  fictitious  personage,  invented  by  Moses  of  Khorene  to  give  more 
weight  to  his  own  statements,  in  accordance  with  the  universal  custom  of  his  time,  when 
contemporary  writings  were  continually  ascribed  to  the  great  men  of  old  or  even  to  imaginary 
characters.  Moses  of  Khorene,  say  these  critics,  was  himself  a  great  lover  of  the  folklore, 
legends,  and  epics  of  his  country,  but  he  knew  that,  if  he  gave  these  as  his  only  source  of 
information,  his  History  would  gain  no  credence,  especially  as,  at  the  period  when  he  wrote, 
just  after  the  establishment  of  Christianity,  everything  pagan  was  regarded  with  suspicion. 
Moreover,  Moses,  being  himself  a  bishop,  could  not  have  avowed  such  a  source  for  all  his 
statements,  though,  as  we  have  said,  he  quotes  from  the  epics  and  says  that  some  of  the  contents 
of  his  work  are  derived  from  them.  It  is,  however,  generally  admitted  that  Moses  of  Khorene 
had  in  his  hands  such  a  book  as  he  describes  and  that  this  book  was  one  of  his  sources.  The 
book  has  even  been  traced. 

As  to  Mar-Abas-Katina,  although  his  book  may  not  have  been  compiled  under  the 
circumstances  described  in  the  History,  Moses  may  have  believed  that  he  was  the  author  of 
the  book  in  his  possession.  Professor  Mar  has  even  found,  in  Arabic  literature,  some  inde- 
pendent traces  of  Mar-Abas-Katina. 

There  is  also  some  controversy  about  the  date  of  Moses  of  Khorene  himself.  By  some 
he  is  placed  even  as  late  as  the  seventh  century,  because  his  writings  contain  references  to 
events  as  late  as  that  period. 

But  it  is  not  difficult  to  account  for  this  without  disputing  the  generally  received  date 
of  the  historian,  for,  when  we  consider  how  many  ancient  books  have  been  re-edited,  we  see 

150 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

how  easily  the  work  before  us  may  have  been  touched  up  by  a  later  hand  in  the  seventh  century/ 

In  concluding  this  account  of  Moses  of  Khorene,  we  must  acknowledge  that  he  has 
not  only  rendered  much  service  to  Armenian  history,  but  that  his  book  is  one  of  the  great 
works  of  all  literature,  and,  if  it  were  better  known,  would  take  a  high  place  among  the 
masterpieces  of  the  world. 

The  most  momentous  event  in  the  national  life  of  Armenia — an  event  which  was  the 
chief  determining  factor  in  the  early  history  of  the  country — was  the  change  of  religion  made 
by  the  adoption  of  Christianity,  the  foundation  of  which  had  been  already  laid  by  King  Abgarus 
(a.d.  3-34)  and  the  preaching  of  the  Apostles  St.  Thaddeus  (a.d.  33-48)  and  St.  Bartholomew 
(a.d.  49),  and  finally  established  by  Tiridates  (a.d.  286-342).  By  this  the  Armenians  were 
entirely  severed  from  the  pagan  Persians  and  brought  into  close  contact  with  the  Greeks,  whose 
representative  was  then  the  Emperor  of  Byzantium.  As  a  result  of  this  religious  agreement,  a 
treaty  was  concluded  in  319  between  Tiridates  and  Constantine,  the  first  Christian  Emperor 
of  Rome,  by  which  the  two  Christian  monarchs  bound  themselves  to  defend  each  other  against 
all  pagans. 

The  adoption  of  Christianity  meant,  to  the  Armenians,  a  revolution  in  their  whole  view 
of  life,  a  severance  from  their  ancestral  beliefs,  though  these  beliefs  have  left  traces  in 
Armenian  folklore  which  are  visible  even  to  this  day.  These  beliefs  and  the  folklore  arising 
out  of  them  were  regarded  by  the  Christian  clergy  as  a  poisonous  flower  grown  up  in  the 
fields  of  paganism.  The  historians  of  the  period  have  chronicled  the  efforts  of  the  clergy  to 
exterminate  every  relic  of  the  old  faith.  Temples  were  pulled  down  and  churches  built  in  their 
stead  ;  images  and  other  monuments  were  broken  in  pieces  ;  heathen  books  and  records  were 
destroyed ;  pagan  festivals  were  turned  into  Christian  ones.  We  learn  from  Faustus  of 
Byzantium  that  laws  were  even  made  against  the  use  and  the  singing  of  pagan  songs,  but, 
notwithstanding  this  persecution,  according  to  Faustus  and  other  historians,  the  Armenians 
"  languished  for  these  songs."  Even  as  late  as  the  fifth  century,  when  there  was  an 
attempt  to  restore  paganism  in  Armenia,  Vasak  Suni  had  books  of  these  songs  copied  and 
distributed  among  the  people  in  order  to  win  them  back  to  heathenism.  This  had  the  effect  of 
rekindling  hostility  against  the  songs,  and  the  books  were  destroyed  when  Christianity  finally 
triumphed,  although,  as  we  have  shown  above,  echoes  of  the  songs  are  to  be  heard  as  late  as 
the  eleventh  century. 

Gregory  the  Illuminator  (a.d.  239-325),  who  converted  Armenia  to  Christianity,  belonged 

'  Translations  of  Moses  of  Khorene  :  Latin  (with  Armenian  text),  Whiston  (G.  &  G.),  London,  1 736  ;  Italian,  Cappelletti 
(G.),  Venice,  1841  ;  Tommaseo  (H.),  Venice,  184^50  ;  German,  Lauer  (M.),  Regensburg,  1869  ;  French  (with  Armenian 
text),  Le  Vaillant  de  Florivel  (P.  E.),  Paris,  1841  (2  vols.),  and  in  Langlois'  Collection,  vol.  ii. ;  Russian,  M.  Emin,  Moscow. 

151 


Armenia 

to  the  royal  race  of  the  Arsacidae.  He  had  studied  at  Caesarea.  He  and  his  family  had  hellenising 
tendencies  in  religion,  education,  and  politics.  There  was  a  section  opposed  to  Hellenism 
which  favoured  Syrian  ideas  and,  in  politics,  inclined  to  Persia.  At  this  early  period  of 
Christianity,  the  Bible  was  read  in  Greek  in  the  north-west  provinces  of  Armenia,  while  in  the 
south-east  provinces  it  was  read  in  Syriac.  During  this  period,  schools  were  established  for  the 
education  of  the  young  on  Christian  principles.  Out  of  the  pupils  in  these  schools  about  loo 
were  chosen  to  be  sent  to  educational  centres  abroad,  where  Greek  learning  was  taught.  At 
the  time  when  this  contact  of  Armenians  with  Greek  culture  took  place,  the  ancient  glories  of 
Hellas  were  past,  and  Greek  scholars  busied  themselves  chiefly  with  theological  subtilties. 
Of  course  the  main  object  of  educating  the  students  from  the  Christian  schools  was  to  indoc- 
trinate them  in  religious  lore  and  fit  them  for  the  priesthood,  but,  nevertheless,  the  youths 
also  brought  away  with  them  a  tincture  of  Greek  culture,  and  this  led  to  the  rise  of  the  Golden 
Age  of  Armenian  literature. 

It  was  the  aim  of  the  Greek  Empire  at  this  time  to  make  the  Armenian  Church  a  branch 
of  the  Greek  Church  and  to  gain  a  political  ascendency  over  the  Armenians,  but  the  head  of 
the  Armenian  Church  and  the  leaders  of  the  intellectual  movement  were  resolved  on  religious 
and  national  independence.  Towards  that  end  two  important  steps  were  taken.  In  404,  the 
Armenian  alphabet  was  invented,  and,  in  491,  the  Armenian  Church  was  separated  from  the 
Greek  Church. 

The  Armenian  language  belongs  to  the  Indo-European  group.  Though  it  has  been 
regarded  by  some  as  an  offshoot  of  the  Iranic  branch,  recent  scholars  of  eminence  have  main- 
tained its  right  to  rank  as  a  distinct  branch,  intermediate  between  the  Iranic  and  the  European. 
It  has  a  very  independent  character  and  many  peculiarities  of  its  own ;  it  has  also  great  strength 
and  flexibility.  It  has  a  great  number  of  roots,  and  is  capable  of  expressing  ideas  of  all  kinds 
and  denoting  fine  shades  of  meaning.  It  is  read  from  left  to  right  like  European  languages. 
It  is  rich  in  particles,  to  which  circumstance  its  expressiveness  is  partly  due.  It  has  also  a 
treasure  of  dialectic  words,  which  have  the  effect  of  importing  vigour  to  Armenian  speech. 
It  is  not  harsh  in  sound,  as  has  been  alleged  by  some  who  are  imperfectly  acquainted  with  it. 
Its  alphabet  consists  of  thirty-six  characters,  with  which  it  is  possible  to  represent  every 
variety  of  sound,  consisting  of  vowels  as  well  as  consonants ;  it  has  no  vowel  points,  in  this 
respect  resembling  the  European,  and  differing  from  most  oriental,  alphabets.  The  spelling 
is  almost  perfectly  phonetic. 

The  language  of  the  period  with  which  we  are  dealing  was  Grabar  or  Ancient  Armenian, 
which  remained  the  literary  language  till  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  is  still 

153 


Its  Epics,  Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

the  Church  language,  being  used  in  all  religious  services.  Modern  Armenian  has  not  departed 
very  widely  from  Grahar,  During  pagan  times,  the  Armenians  had  an  alphabet  of  their  own, 
but,  on  the  introduction  of  Christianity,  it  was  discarded  on  account  of  its  pagan  origin. 

The  honour  of  being  the  inventor  of  the  new  Armenian  alphabet  belongs  to  St.  Mesrop 
(361-440),  a  former  secretary  of  King  Tiridates.  He  found  some  of  the  ancient  letters  and 
invented  others  to  complete  the  alphabet  in  404.  St.  Mesrop  and  St.  Sahak  (353-439)  were 
the  forerunners  of  the  Armenian  intellectual  movement,  the  former  as  the  inventor  of  the 
alphabet,  the  latter,  together  with  his  pupils,  as  the  translator  of  the  Bible  into  Armenian. 
This  translation  is  called  "  the  Queen  of  Translations."  The  language  is  so  simple  and  direct, 
and,  at  the  same  time,  so  beautiful,  that  there  is  nothing  to  be  compared  with  iu 

The  Armenian  translation  of  the  Bible  is  the  foundation-stone  of  Armenian  Christianity. 
Perhaps  no  translation  of  the  Scriptures  has  ever  made  so  deep  an  impression  on  a  people  as 
this  one  has  made  on  the  Armenians.  By  them  it  was  taken  as  a  symbolical  history  of  their  own 
country.  Did  not  the  events  recorded  in  the  very  first  chapters  happen  in  Armenia  i  and  also 
the  second  Creation  after  the  Flood  i  Did  not  their  beloved  mountain,  Ararat,  figure  in  the 
latter  story  i  In  the  Bible  they  found  even  the  names  of  their  national  heroes,  Haik  and 
Vahagn,  though,  as  we  have  seen,  for  the  latter  names  only  the  translators  are  responsible. 
Other  Bible  stories  resemble  the  records  of  Armenian  history.  Moses  led  his  tribe  from  the 
land  of  bondage  into  a  land  of  freedom,  just  as  Haik  did.  All  the  stories  of  suffering  under  a 
foreign  yoke  and  of  revolt  against  oppression  have  their  parallels  in  the  annals  of  Armenia. 

At  the  end  of  the  fourth  century  (374-383),  Nerses  the  Great  was  Catholicos.  During 
these  ten  years  he  displayed  great  energy.  Under  his  rule,  many  councils  were  held  and  many 
regulations  drawn  up  to  safeguard  the  morals  of  the  people.  In  addition  to  this,  a  number  of 
schools,  hospitals,  orphanages,  almshouses,  and  other  charitable  institutions  arose  under  his 
supervision.  A  contemporary  historian  says  that  during  Nerses'  term  of  ofifice,  upwards  of 
2000  abbeys  and  monasteries  were  built.  These  religious  houses  served  as  centres,  not  only  of 
rehgious  life,  but  also  of  learning,  where  numerous  ecclesiastics  and  teachers  were  trained. 
This  intellectual  movement,  which  was  of  a  purely  religious  and  educational  character,  not 
merely  lived  through  the  political  tempest  of  those  times,  but  gradually  grew  and  progressed. 
In  the  year  400,  the  representative  of  the  Arsacid  dynasty  on  the  throne  was  Vramshapuh, 
an  able  monarch,  who,  being  himself  a  lover  of  peace,  did  much  to  encourage  and  foster  the 
intellectual  movement  and  to  keep  the  country  free  from  foreign  foes  and  internal  dissensions. 
King  Vramshapuh  reigned  twenty-one  years  and  it  was,  approximately,  these  years  that  con- 
stituted what  is  called  "  the  Golden  Age  of  Armenian  literature." 

153  M 


Armenia 

St.  Sahak  (353-439)/  who^  with  St.  Mesrop,  was  the  moving  spirit  of  the  intellectual 
movement,  was  Catholicos  during  part  of  this  period. 

The  Golden  Period  was  of  short  duration,  only  lasting  twenty-five  years,  but  it  was  rich 
in  achievements.  The  students  educated  abroad  on  their  return  originated  a  new  literature, 
pervaded  by  Christian  ideas.  They  considered  themselves  as  torch-bearers  in  the  new  move- 
ment, and  all  their  work  is  animated  by  inspiration. 

This  period  is  one  of  marvellous  activity.  The  new  national  alphabet  had  charms  that 
wrought  hke  magic  and,  coupled  with  the  new  religion  of  hope,  captivated  all  Armenian  hearts. 
Armenians  realised  that  it  was  a  religion  for  the  people,  not  merely  for  the  great  and  powerful. 
All  over  Armenia  national  schools  were  opened.  Nearly  every  book  of  importance  written  in 
Greek  and  Syriac  was  translated  into  Armenian,  as  well  as  some  of  the  Latin  authors.  Trans- 
lation was  a  recognised  profession,  and  "  translator  "  was  a  title  of  honour,  hke  the  European 
"  doctor."  There  are  upwards  of  fifty  chronicles  and  histories  written  in  ancient  Armenian, 
which  is  richer  in  hterature  than  the  Greek  of  the  same  period,  and  the  Armenian  language 
is  so  flexible  and  so  well  adapted  to  the  exact  rendering  of  every  kind  of  literature  that  if,  for 
instance,  the  Anabasis  of  Xenophon  were  lost,  it  might  be  reproduced  in  Greek,  almost  word 
for  word,  from  the  Armenian  version.  Among  the  writings  which  now  survive  only  in 
Armenian,  the  originals  having  been  lost,  are  the  Homilies  of  St.  John  Chrysostom,  two  works 
of  Philo  on  Providence,  together  with  some  of  his  Bibhcal  commentaries,  the  Chronicle  of 
Eusebius,  the  works  of  St.  Ephrem  and  others. 

Besides  translations,  Armenia  produced,  during  the  period  with  which  we  are  concerned, 
original  works,  chiefly  of  an  historical  character.  These  give  very  succinct  accounts  of  the 
Persian  and  Mongol  invasions,  and  throw  fresh  light  on  the  state  of  the  East  during  the 
Middle  Ages.  As  these  works  lie  outside  our  present  subject,  we  cannot  here  even  name 
their  authors.  Those  who  wish  to  investigate  them  are  referred  to  what  we  have  written 
elsewhere.' 

What  is  most  remarkable  is  that,  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  intellectual  movement,  when 
the  alphabet  had  just  been  formed,  the  hterary  language  is  so  highly  developed,  so  rich  and 
subtle,  that  it  is  more  like  a  language  which  is  the  product  of  centuries  of  culture.  This  very 
fact  shows  that  culture  was  no  novelty  in  Armenia.  The  new  movement  only  introduced  a 
fresh  era  in  Armenian  civilisation. 

Twenty-five  years  after  the  introduction  of  the  Armenian  alphabet,  the  Arsacid  dynasty 

'  See  Travel  and  Politics  in  Armenia,  by  Noel  Buxton,  M.P.,  and  Rev.  Harold  Buxton ;  with  Introduction  by  Viscount 
Bryce  and  a  Contribution  on  Armenian  History  and  Culture  by  Aram  Raffi.     Smith,  Elder  &  Co.     I9i4. 

154 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

fell  (428),  the  last  king  being  Artashir  III.  From  this  time  the  Armenians  have  ceased  to  be 
politically  independent. 

From  432  onwards,  the  greater  part  of  Armenia  was  governed  by  Persian  satraps.  The 
Persians  regarded  with  great  apprehension  the  adoption  of  Christianity  in  Armenia,  as  this 
caused  the  Armenians  to  enter  into  closer  relations  with  the  Greeks.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  at  the 
end  of  the  fourth  century,  the  Greeks  came  to  aid  the  Armenians  in  driving  away  the  Persians. 
It  was  the  aim  of  the  Persians  to  eradicate  Christianity  from  Armenia.  In  order  to  further 
this  object,  they  declared  war  on  the  Greek  Empire.  The  latter,  instead  of  fighting,  made 
peace  with  the  Persians,  accepting  very  humiliating  terms.  The  Armenians  were  left  to  their 
fate,  but,  nevertheless,  they  resolved  to  stand  up  for  their  religion  against  the  Persian  monarch, 
who  led  a  great  army  against  them  with  the  intention  of  enforcing  Zoroastrianism.  At  this 
time  there  was  no  Armenian  king.  The  majority  of  the  remaining  princes  and  nobles,  however, 
formed  a  regular  army,  the  people  gladly  serving  as  volunteers,  though  there  was  a  very  small 
party,  led  by  Prince  Vasak  Suni,  that  were  inclined,  for  political  reasons,  to  entertain  the 
Persian  proposals. 

All  this  took  place  between  449  and  454.  The  first  religious  war  (451)  is  known  as  Var- 
danantz,  because  Vardan  Manikomian,  who  was  the  commander-in-chief  of  the  Armenian 
army  of  defence,  was  the  moving  spirit  in  the  struggle  of  Armenian  Christianity  against  the 
religion  of  Persia.  He  fell  in  the  battle  of  Avarair,  but  his  fame  survived  him  and  he  is  the 
most  beloved  of  Armenian  heroes. 

This  war,  though  it  crushed  the  hopes  in  which  the  Armenians  had  indulged  themselves 
of  regaining  their  political  independence,  nevertheless  convinced  the  Persians  of  the  impos- 
sibility of  uprooting  a  religion  which  was  so  firmly  implanted  in  the  hearts  of  the  people. 

The  first  religious  war  was  followed  by  a  second,  in  which  the  Armenian  princes  offered 
a  valiant  resistance  and  the  Persians  were  obliged  to  give  way.  The  leader  of  the  resisting 
princes  was  appointed  satrap  by  the  Persians.  Thus  Armenia  won  back  partial  independence, 
the  Persians  themselves  appointing  an  Armenian  satrap  and  proclaiming  religious  liberty.  The 
Chief  of  the  Magi,  who  was  sent  to  convert  the  Armenians  to  Mazdiism,  returned  unsuccess- 
ful and  reported  to  the  Persian  king  :  "  Even  if  the  immortals  themselves  came  to  our  aid,  it 
would  be  impossible  to  establish  Mazdiism  in  Armenia."  Although  Vardan  and  his  followers 
perished  in  this  war,  and  although  the  Armenians,  apparently,  lost  the  battle,  the  struggle 
resulted  in  the  triumph  of  the  ideal  for  which  Armenia  was  strugghng — that  of  religious  free- 
dom. This  the  Persians  realised  and  never,  after  this  time,  did  they  make  any  attempt  to  force 
the  Armenians  to  change  their  faith.  Neither  did  any  of  the  various  Mohammedan  conquerors 

155 


Armenia 

venture  on  any  steps  towards  bringing  about  the  conversion  of  the  whole  Armenian  nation, 
though  they  have  enforced  conformity  on  a  small  scale ;  they  have  had  to  content  themselves 
with  political  supremacy.  The  Mohammedan  world  has  realised  that  Christianity  is  a  great 
power  in  Armenia,  and  this  is  the  reason  why  the  rehgious  heads  of  the  nation — the  Catholicos 
and  the  patriarchs — meet  with  great  consideration,  not  only  from  the  governments  of  Christian 
states,  but  also  from  Mohammedan  powers  ;  both  by  Christian  and  by  Mohammedan  countries 
which  have  rule  over  Armenia  these  dignitaries  are  recognised  as  representatives  of  their 
country,  not  only  in  religious,  but  also  in  secular  affairs.  Thus  the  Christian  National  Church 
has  been  one  of  the  chief  factors  of  the  unity  and  the  national  consciousness  which  exists 
among  Armenians  even  up  to  the  present  day,  and  this  is  the  reason  why  the  battle  of  Vardan 
is  regarded  as  a  national  triumph  and  is  still  annually  commemorated.' 

When  Armenia  had  ceased  to  be  an  independent  state,  its  literature  became  more  religious, 
as  the  clergy  were  anxious  to  foster  devotion.  Christianity  introduced  a  new  kind  of  poetry, 
namely,  Church  hymns  and  chants.  These  were  called,  in  Armenian,  sharakans.  They  were 
not  only  written  in  metre,  but  they  were  composed  with  a  view  to  being  sung.  The  word 
sharakan  means  a  "row  of  gems."  Historians  of  the  Middle  Ages  say  that  the  sharakans  were 
mainly  written  by  the  "  translators,"  ue.,  by  writers  of  the  fourth  and  fifth  centuries.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  very  few  sharakans  were  written  after  the  thirteenth  century.  Since  then,  no 
prayers  or  hymns  have  been  introduced  into  the  Armenian  Church. 

It  is  said  by  writers  of  the  Middle  Ages  that  St.  Sahak  arranged  the  sharakans  for  ten 
voices  and  St.  Stephanos  for  twenty-six  voices,  corresponding  to  created  things — elements, 
plants,  birds,  and  animals.  There  were  also  women  sharakan  writers.  One  of  these  was 
Sahakadukht,  who  lived  in  the  eighth  century.  She  not  only  wrote,  but  also  composed  music, 
and  taught  singing.  Out  of  modesty,  she  used  to  hide  behind  a  curtain,  whence  she  gave 
instruction  to  both  sexes.  An  historian  of  the  time,  Ghevond  Eretz,  says  of  her  sharakans  : 
"  They  were  angehc  songs  on  earth."  Singing  was  considered  a  great  art  in  Armenia,  and 
musicians  were  called  "  philosophers."  Several  of  such  "  philosophers  "  were  canonised  and 
had  the  word  "  philosopher  "  prefixed  to  their  names.  The  fame  of  some  of  these  musicians 
spread  to  foreign  lands.  This  explains  the  fact  that,  when  Cathohcos  Petros  Getadardz  went 
to  Constantinople,  he  took  with  him  a  company  of  musicians,  whom  he  presented,  as  a  gift, 
for  the  service  of  the  Byzantine  court. 

There  was  a  revival  of  sAara/can-writing  in  the  thirteenth  century,  which  was  a  flourishing 

'  The  history  of  this  war  is  recorded  by  Eghishe,  a  contemporary  ecclesiastic,  whose  work  is  more  widely  read  than  any 
book  except  the  Bible.  He  is  a  poet  rather  than  an  historian. 

156 


Its  Epics,  Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

literary  period.  It  was  during  this  time  that  Bishop  Khachatour  Tarinetzi  invented  distinc- 
tively Armenian  musical  notes^  which  are  quite  unrelated  to  European  ones,  so  that  the 
Armenians  had  now,  not  only  an  alphabet  of  their  own,  but  also  their  own  musical  notation, 
and  their  hymns  could  be  set  to  music.  This  notation  was  improved  in  the  eighteenth  century. 

Armenian  hymns  are  written  in  a  style  which  is  not  only  picturesque,  but  which  also 
has  a  charm  of  its  own ;  its  colours  are  very  rich ;  the  pictures  it  conjures  up  are  vivid. 
When  one  remembers  that  many  of  them  were  written  when  national  life  and  death  were 
hanging  in  the  balance,  because  of  foreign  oppression,  at  a  time  when  they  had  no  one  to  turn 
to  but  the  Creator,  we  understand  how  it  is  that  so  much  tenderness,  hope,  and  devotion  are 
embodied  in  these  "  rows  of  gems,"  nor  can  one  help  thinking  that  Armenian  is  the  natural 
language  for  religious  poems.  A  vein  of  mysticism  runs  through  many  of  these  hymns,  espe- 
cially through  those  written  by  Gregory  of  Narek  (951-1009),  one  example  of  which — "  The 
Christ-Child  " — appears  on  page  113  of  this  volume.  But  this  mysticism  is  not  obscure  ;  on 
the  contrary,  it  is  to  the  hymn  what  light  and  shade  are  to  a  picture  serving  to  bring  it  into 
touch  with  nature. 

Hymns  have  always  been  popular  among  the  Armenians.  Even  peasants  know  them  by 
heart  and  sing  them.  The  hymn  tunes  are  unique,  being  entirely  independent  of  those  of 
other  Christian  nations.  Their  somewhat  strange  rhythm  recalls  the  chorus  of  singers  round 
the  altars  of  the  pagan  gods.  No  doubt  some  pagan  melodies  have  found  their  way  into  the 
Christian  hymn  tunes  of  Armenia. 

The  Armenians  are  rich  in  folksongs.  The  music  to  which  these  songs  are  set  possesses 
great  charm.  In  it,  also,  the  rhythm  is  most  important.  An  Armenian  composer,  speaking  of 
these  folksongs,  says  : — 

"  By  means  of  those  ethereal  and  heavenly  waves  of  melody  one  sees  enchanting 
mermaids  who,  after  dancing  on  the  banks  of  large  and  small  lakes  and  poising  themselves 
on  the  waters,  allure  towards  themselves  the  pagan  Armenians,  offering  love  kisses  to  all 
minstrels." 

In  later  years  Armenian  music  and  poetry  were  affected  by  European  influence,  but  in 
her  hymns  and  folksongs  she  has  musical  treasures  that  are  all  her  own. 

Side  by  side  with  the  written  literature  of  this  period,  the  unwritten  literature  continued 
to  grow.  The  latter  consists  mainly  of  folktales,  fables,  and  proverbs. 

It  is  easy  to  distinguish  a  Christian  folktale  from  a  pagan  one  by  the  different  ideals 
embodied  in  it.  Some  of  the  folktales  of  this  period  have  arisen  out  of  historical  events. 

In  the  folktales,  it  is  the  youngest  child  that  is  the  hero  or  heroine.   These  stories  express 

157  M2 


Armenia 

the  people's  outlook  on  life  and  are  the  product  of  their  experiences,  which  have  been  handed 
down  from  generation  to  generation. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  folklore  current  in  Armenia,  some  of  which  has  been  collected 
and  published. 

Grigor  Magistros  says  that,  in  his  time,  unwritten  fables  in  rhyme  were  very  popular. 

There  are  also  many  Armenian  proverbs.  It  seems  to  have  been  a  custom  in  ancient  times 
— and  the  usage  is  still  retained  in  some  places — ^for  a  man  to  go  and  meet  the  girl  he  wishes 
to  marry  on  the  banks  of  a  stream  or  in  a  forest  and  to  ask  her  a  riddle.  If  she  gives  the 
correct  answer  to  the  riddle,  he  marries  her. 

Here  are  a  few  of  the  riddles  used  on  these  occasions  : — 

"  What  paper  is  it  that  you  cannot  write  on  <  and  what  sort  of  pen  can  write  on  this 
paper  i  " 

A  maiden  who  desires  to  marry  the  man  should  answer  : — 

"  The  heart  is  the  paper  on  which  no  pen  can  write ;  language  is  the  pen  that  writes  on 
the  heart." 

"  What  rose  is  it  that  opens  in  the  winter  and  in  due  time  fades  and  is  gone  5*  " 

Answer :  "  Snow  is  the  rose  that  opens  in  the  winter ;  when  summer  comes,  it  fades 
and  is  gone." 

"  The  brother  chases  the  sister,  the  sister  the  brother,  but  neither  can  catch  the  other." 

Answer  :  "  The  sun  and  the  moon." 

There  is  another  usage,  belonging  especially  to  young  girls,  which  has  given  rise  to  an 
extensive  literature.  This  literature  consists  of  charm-verses,  which  are  used  for  fortune-telling, 
A  selection  of  these  is  given  on  pages  67-68. 

Once  a  year,  on  the  Eve  of  Ascension  Day,  young  maidens  who  want  their  fortunes  told 
decorate  a  bowl  with  certain  specially  selected  flowers.  Into  this  bowl  each  girl  casts  a  token 
— a  ring,  a  brooch,  a  thimble.  After  filling  the  bowl  with  flowers  of  seven  different  kinds,  and 
water  drawn  from  seven  springs,  they  cover  it  with  an  embroidered  cloth  and  take  it  by  night 
to  the  priest,  who  says  a  prayer  over  it.  They  then  put  it  out  in  the  moonlight,  open  to  the 
stars,  leaving  it  till  dawn.  Next  morning,  at  daybreak,  furnished  with  provisions  for  the  whole 
day,  they  go  out  of  the  village  carrying  the  bowl,  to  the  side  of  a  spring,  to  the  foot  of  a  moun- 
tain, or  into  an  open  field,  gathering,  on  the  way,  various  kinds  of  flowers,  with  which  they 
deck  themselves.  Arrived  at  their  destination,  they  first  play  games,  dance,  and  sing,  then 
they  take  a  beautiful  little  girl,  too  young  to  tell  where  the  sun  rises,  who  has  been  previously 
chosen  for  their  purpose  and  gaily  dressed  for  the  occasion,  and  who  does  not  know  to  whom 

158 


Its  Epics,   Folk-SongSj  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

each  token  belongs,  and  cover  her  face  with  a  richly  wrought  veil,  so  that  she  may  not  see  what 
is  in  the  bowl.  The  child  draws  the  articles  out  of  the  bowl,  one  by  one,  and  holds  each  in 
her  hand.  While  she  does  this,  one  of  the  party  recites  a  charm-song,  and  the  owner  of  each 
token  takes  the  song  which  accompanies  it  as  her  fortune. 

There  are  thousands  of  these  charm-songs.  In  form  they  are  very  simple.  Sometimes 
two  consecutive  lines  deal  with  quite  distinct  subjects,  though  they  rhyme  together  and  their 
construction  is  the  same.    Each  is  a  perfect  poem. 

After  the  end  of  the  Arsacid  dynasty,  Armenia  remained  under  the  rule  of  Persia  for 
two  hundred  years.  During  this  period,  sometimes  the  whole  country  fell  temporarily  into 
the  hands  of  the  Greeks  ;  on  other  occasions  the  same  fate  befell  a  few  provinces.  Speaking 
generally,  after  the  fall  of  the  Arsacidae,  the  eastern — and  more  extensive — part  of  Armenia 
remained  under  Persian  rule,  and  the  western — and  smaller — part  came  under  Greek  dominion. 
The  Greeks  and  the  Persians  were  continually  fighting  with  one  another  for  the  possession  of 
the  whole  country.  Armenia  was  the  battlefield,  and  the  sufferer  was  always  the  Armenian 
people.  After  the  Arabs  had  embraced  Mohammedanism,  they  formed  a  powerful  empire, 
conquering  Mesopotamia  and  then  passing  on  to  Persia.  They  forced  the  Persians  to  become 
Mohammedans,  and  in  640  entered  Armenia.  Eastern  Armenia,  which  was  then  in  the  hands 
of  the  Persians,  fell  into  their  possession. 

The  Greeks  greatly  dreaded  the  taking  of  Armenia  by  the  Arabs,  as  it  formed  a  strong 
barrier  against  the  assault  of  the  Greek  colonies  in  Asia  Minor.  Therefore,  as  they  had  before 
fought  in  Armenia  against  the  Persians,  so  they  now  proceeded  to  fight  against  the  Arabs ; 
and  again  Armenia  was  the  battlefield  and  the  sufferers  were  the  Armenians.  The  Greeks 
came  from  time  to  time  demanding  tribute  of  them,  and  if  their  demand  were  resisted,  the 
people  were  plundered  and  slaughtered.  On  the  departure  of  the  Greek  army,  the  Arabs 
came,  making  the  same  demand.  Thus,  during  the  first  two  hundred  years  following  the  fall 
of  the  Arsacidae,  the  Armenians  were  between  the  two  fires  of  the  Persians  and  the  Greeks, 
and  then  for  another  two  hundred  years  between  the  two  fires  of  the  Greeks  and  the  Arabs. 
During  this  period,  the  Armenian  princes  offered  resistance  from  time  to  time  and  succeeded 
in  regaining  independence  for  short  intervals.  The  governors  set  by  the  Arabs  over  Armenia 
were  in  the  habit  of  persecuting  the  native  princes,  to  prevent  them  from  organising  revolts. 
Of  these  governors,  the  most  bloodthirsty  were  Kashm  and  Bugha.  The  former  cunningly 
invited  all  the  Armenian  princes  to  the  town  of  Nakhejevan,  where  they  assembled  in  the 
church ;  whereupon,  by  order  of  the  government,  the  church  was  surrounded  by  piles  of  wood 
and  set  on  fire,  and  the  princes  burnt  alive  (704).    The  army  was  then  set  to  plunder  and 

159 


Armenia 

slaughter  the  Armenians  and  burn  the  towns  and  villages,  as  the  people,  deprived  of  their 
princes,  could  offer  no  resistance.  Many  were  exiled  to  the  Arab  capital,  Damascus.  Bugha 
(850)  surpassed  even  Kashm  in  his  cruelty,  but  we  need  not  chronicle  his  atrocities  here. 
Under  such  governors  as  these,  the  tribute  and  the  taxes  were  enormous,  and  the  people 
became  very  poor.  There  were,  however,  also  good  governors,  during  whose  rule  the  people 
were  free  from  oppression  and  were  allowed  to  pursue  their  peaceful  occupations. 

But  gradually  the  power  of  the  Arabs  declined. 

The  Armenians  took  advantage  of  the  weakening  of  the  Arab  power  to  form  independent 
kingdoms.  One  of  the  principal  noble  families  during  the  period  of  Arab  dominion  was  that  of 
the  Bagratuni.  This  family  was  rich  and  powerful  and  had  much  land  in  its  possession.  Under 
the  Arsacidae,  the  head  of  this  family  was  hereditary  "  coronator  *'  {i.e.,  he  had  the  privilege 
of  putting  the  crown  on  the  king's  head,  on  the  occasion  of  a  new  sovereign).  During  the  rule 
of  the  Arabs,  the  command  of  the  Armenian  army  was  given  to  this  family.  The  Bagratuni, 
though  extremely  courageous  and  patriotic,  were  also  cautious  and  tactful  in  their  relations 
with  the  Arabs,  whom  they  served  faithfully,  thus  gaining  the  respect  of  the  Khalifs.  As  they 
also  won  the  love  and  esteem  of  their  own  countrymen  by  rebuilding  and  restoring  what  the 
Arabs  had  destroyed,  they  were  able  to  act  as  mediators  between  the  Khalifs  and  the  Armenian 
people.  In  wars  against  the  enemies  of  the  Arabs,  members  of  this  family  had  many  successes. 
Once  a  Persian  prince  revolted  against  the  Khalif  and  a  Persian  army  of  80,000  marched  into 
Armenia.  The  Arabs  were  too  weak  to  make  any  resistance,  but  Ashot  Bagratuni  with  his 
troops  defeated  the  invaders.  After  the  victory,  the  Khalif  of  Bagdad  sent  a  crown  to  Ashot, 
thus  making  him  a  king,  thinking,  "  He  is  so  powerful  that,  if  I  do  not  give  him  a  crown,  he 
will  seize  one  for  himself." 

Thus  in  885  Ashot  became  the  first  king  of  the  Bagratuni  dynasty.  The  Greek  emperor, 
Basil  I.,  also  sent  a  crown  to  Ashot,  with  a  view  to  gaining  the  friendship  and  influence  of 
Armenia.  During  the  dominion  of  the  Bagratuni,  the  regime  of  the  Arsacidae  was  restored  and 
the  country  prospered.  Ani,  which  was  the  seat  of  government  during  the  greater  part  of  this 
period,  though  formerly  it  was  little  more  than  a  fortress,  became  one  of  the  most  flourishing 
cities  of  the  time.  It  was  full  of  fine  edifices — churches,  palaces,  museums,  etc. — and  was 
called  "  the  city  of  a  thousand  and  one  churches."    Its  fame  even  spread  to  foreign  lands. 

There  were  several  other  noble  Armenian  families  with  ambitions.  In  908  one  of  these — 
the  Ardzruni  family — made  the  lands  they  held  into  a  kingdom,  called  Vaspurakan,  with  Van 
as  a  capital  city.  In  taking  this  step  they  were  encouraged  by  the  Arabs,  who  were  watching 
with  alarm  the  growing  power  of  the  Bagratuni. 

160 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

In  908  another  Armenian  kingdom  was  set  up  with  Kars  as  its  capital. 

Ashot  IIL,  who  was  then  the  king  of  the  Bagratuni  dynasty,  was  quite  aware  that  the 
Arabs  were  encouraging  the  formation  of  small  Armenian  kingdoms,  but  he  offered  no  opposi- 
tion, leaving  his  rivals  alone  to  serve  the  people  each  in  his  own  way. 

This  Ashot  was  one  of  the  greatest  sovereigns  of  this  dynasty.  He  was  called  "  Ashot  the 
Compassionate  "  because  of  his  love  of  the  people  and  his  numerous  charitable  provisions  for 
their  benefit.  It  was  said  that  he  would  never  dine  without  sending  for  some  beggars  out  of 
the  street  to  share  the  meal  with  him. 

The  most  renowned  as  well  as  the  wisest  and  most  powerful  king  of  this  dynasty 
was  Gagik  I.  (990-1020),  under  whom  the  country  enjoyed  its  period  of  greatest 
prosperity. 

The  danger  of  the  Arabs  was  past,  but  now  a  new  peril  threatened  the  East,  that  of  the 
Seljukian  Turks,  who  came  from  Central  Asia  in  search  of  a  new  country.  Persia  and  Meso- 
potamia fell  before  them  and  they  entered  Armenia.  Several  of  the  Armenian  princes 
offered  them  stout  resistance  with  some  success,  but,  fearing  that  this  success  was  only 
temporary,  others  transferred  themselves  and  their  subjects  to  more  secure  parts  of  the 
country. 

The  Seljuks  conquered  Persia  and  established  a  Persian  kingdom  of  their  own,  but  the 
new  Persia  was  no  longer  Zoroastrian,  but  Mohammedan.  Armenia  again  became  a  battlefield. 
The  Greeks  also  claimed  the  city  of  Ani,  and  this  led  to  many  conflicts  in  which  the  Armenians 
made  a  brave  defence.  The  town,  however,  fell  through  treachery  and  the  Greeks  devastated 
some  parts  of  the  country,  treating  the  inhabitants  no  better  than  the  Arabs  and  the  Seljuks 
had  done.  In  order  to  weaken  the  power  of  Armenia,  they  also  made  attempts  to  exterminate 
the  native  princes  and  nobles. 

About  the  same  time,  the  Seljuks  again  invaded  Armenia  and  completed  the  desolation 
which  the  Greeks  had  begun.  They  wrought  great  destruction  in  Ani. 

The  last  king  of  the  Bagratuni  dynasty  was  unable  to  re-establish  his  kingdom  and  was 
killed  by  the  Greeks.  His  two  sons  and  his  grandson  were  poisoned.  So  ended  the  race  of  the 
Bagratuni  whose  dynasty  had  lasted  160  years. 

During  the  rule  of  this  house,  the  country  had  a  period  of  rest  and  the  energies  of  the 
people  were  directed  to  the  restoration  and  development  of  the  country.  The  ruined  monas- 
teries and  churches  were  rebuilt,  schools  were  again  estabhshed ;  commerce,  arts,  and  handi- 
crafts throve.  This  was  a  particularly  flourishing  time  for  the  national  architecture,  which 
now  assumed  a  new  character.  Most  of  the  Armenian  abbeys  and  churches  were  built  during 

i6i 


Armenia 

this  time^  and  as  these  places  had  always  been  seats  of  learning,  alternative  erudition  revived, 
original  writing  and  the  transcription  of  manuscripts  going  on  briskly  within  the  convent 
walls.  The  literature  of  this  period  is  chiefly  of  a  religious  character.  In  it  we  see  traces  of 
Arabic  influence — the  influence  of  the  eighth  century,  when  Arabic  Hterature  was  at  its  zenith. 
The  chief  debt  of  Armenian  literature  to  the  Arabs  is  the  introduction  of  rhyme,  which  is 
first  found  in  Armenian  verse  in  the  eleventh  century. 

In  dealing  with  this  period,  as  we  are  only  concerned  with  Armenian  poetry,  we  must 
leave  unmentioned  the  historians  and  other  famous  prose  writers. 

The  most  remarkable  Armenian  poet  under  the  Bagratuni  dynasty  was  Grigor 
Narekatzi  (951-1009),  who  has  been  called  the  Pindar  of  Armenia  and  has  also  been 
canonised  as  a  saint.  From  his  pen  came  elegies,  odes,  panegyrics,  and  homilies.  His 
sacred  elegies  (ninety-five  in  number)  are  elevated  in  style,  showing  Arabian  influence, 
and  very  pure  in  sentiment.  His  canticles  and  melodies  are  still  chanted  in  the  Armenian 
Church.  Verbosity  is  a  characteristic  of  his  work ;  in  one  passage  the  word  *'  God  "  is 
accompanied  by  ninety  adjectives. 

He  was  greatly  loved  and  revered  by  the  people,  but  he  aroused  jealousy  in  some  of  his 
ecclesiastical  colleagues.  On  one  occasion,  they  went  to  the  Catholicos  with  accusations  against 
him.  The  Catholicos  appointed  priests  to  investigate  the  case.  These  priests  repaired  to  the 
abbey  where  Grigor  Narekatzi  was,  arriving  about  dinner  time  on  a  Friday.  To  their  surprise 
they  found  roast  pigeons  on  the  table,  and  reminded  Grigor  that  it  was  fast-day,  whereupon 
the  latter  said,  addressing  himself  to  the  pigeons  :  "  If  that  be  so,  off  with  you  !  "  and  the 
roasted  birds  took  to  themselves  wings  and  flew  away.  The  astonished  investigators,  without 
going  into  the  case,  turned  back  and  reported  the  miracle  to  the  Catholicos.  Of  course  this 
is  an  extravagant  legend,  but  it  shows  the  high  estimation  in  which  Grigor  Narekatzi  was 
held  by  his  contemporaries. 

The  greatest  work  of  this  writer  and  the  one  on  which  his  fame  rests  is  Narek,  It  is 
divided  into  ninety-five  chapters,  and  is  a  tragic  devotional  monologue  composed  of  poetical 
prayers.  Here  the  author  reveals  his  heart  and  soul  in  converse  with  God.  Hope,  fear,  love, 
faith,  repentance,  entreaty,  aspiration,  breathe  as  if  mingled  with  tears  in  fine  and  noble  lines 
and  periods.  There  is  a  copious  stream  of  epithets,  a  flood  of  rhetoric,  an  unfailing  flow 
of  ideas.  With  all  this  wealth  of  diction,  this  work  is  sincere  and  strikingly  original,  and  gives 
evidence  of  the  author's  high-soaring  imagination.  He  begins  with  an  address  to  God,  in 
which  he  represents  himself  as  one  of  the  vilest  of  creatures,  saying  that,  if  all  the  trees  in  all 
the  forests  of  the  world  were  pens  and  all  the  seas  ink,  they  would  not  suffice  to  write  down 

163 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

his  sins,  but  towards  even  such  sinfulness  as  this  the  mercy  of  God  is  great,  and  the  Creator 
is  so  powerful  that  it  will  be  possible  for  Him  to  bleach  the  sins  as  white  as  snow. 

This  work  gives  evidence  that  its  author  had,  on  the  one  hand,  great  love  of  God  and  a 
firm  faith,  and  on  the  other  hand  a  vivid  imagination  and  poetic  fire.  All  this  he  has  worded 
together  with  great  skill. 

Narek  is  a  mingling  of  prose  and  verse.  It  begins  in  prose  and  then  breaks  into  verse, 
then  again,  after  continuing  to  some  length,  returns  to  prose,  and  so  on.  It  was  printed  for  the 
first  time  in  1673  at  Constantinople ;  in  all  thirty  editions  have  been  published  in  different 
places.  It  stands  by  itself,  being  the  only  long  mystic  work  in  Armenian  literature,  mysticism 
being  quite  alien  to  the  typical  Armenian  mind.  Even  the  mysticism  of  Narek  and  a  few  other 
works  of  the  same  period  has  its  own  peculiarities.  It  is  not  so  obscure  as  ordinary  mysticism, 
partaking,  rather,  of  the  nature  of  allegory.  Notwithstanding  its  unusual  character,  Narek 
was  formerly  regarded  with  veneration  little  short  of  that  accorded  to  the  Bible  itself.  Within 
recent  times  superstitious  people  ascribed  to  it  miraculous  medical  qualities,  believing  that  if 
certain  chapters  were  read  over  a  patient  he  would  be  cured.  It  was  also  believed  that  if  any 
one  read  certain  chapters — forty  in  number — with  concentrated  attention,  banishing  thought 
of  everything  else,  he  would  have  the  power  of  controlling  devils,  but  this  it  is  said  is  very 
difficult  and  even  dangerous,  because  while  the  reading  is  going  on,  evil  spirits  come  and 
try  to  distract  the  mind  of  the  reader,  annoying,  terrifying,  and  even  torturing  him ;  if  his 
attention  wanders,  he  may  become  possessed.  All  this  shows  the  value  and  importance  that 
were  attached  to  Narek.  At  the  end  of  this  work,  the  author  states  that  he  finished  writing  it 
in  the  year  100 1-2.  Gregory  of  Narek  also  wrote  several  songs.  Some  of  his  prayers  and 
sharakans  are  used  in  the  church  services.  Another  great  writer  of  this  period  was  Grigor 
Magistros  (  -1058)  who  produced  poetry  of  some  value.  He  was  of  princely  lineage  and, 
unlike  the  Armenian  authors  who  were  his  predecessors  or  contemporaries,  he  was  a  layman. 
He  gained  reputation  as  a  linguist,  a  scholar,  and  a  writer,  and  was  one  of  the  greatest  politicians 
of  his  time.  He  received  the  title  of  "  duke  "  from  the  Greek  emperors  Constantine  and 
Monomachus.  Early  in  life  he  gave  up  politics  and  retired  to  his  estate,  where  he  devoted 
himself  to  literary  pursuits.  He  wrote  both  poetry  and  prose.  His  chief  poetical  work  is  a 
long  metrical  narration  (a  thousand  lines  in  extent)  of  the  principal  events  recorded  in  the 
Bible,  from  the  Creation  to  the  Resurrection  of  Christ,  The  author  states  that  this  work  was 
written  in  three  days  at  the  request  of  a  Mohammedan  noble  who  wished  to  make  acquaintance 
with  the  Christian  Scriptures  and  who,  after  reading  the  poem,  became  converted  to  Chris- 
tianity.   Grigor  Magistros  was  almost  the  first  poet  to  adopt  the  use  of  rhyme,  introduced 

163 


Armenia 

into  Armenia  by  the  Arabs.  In  his  work  Grigor  Magistros  tells  some  interesting  stories 
which  he  has  learnt  from  the  peasants.  One  is  the  following.  The  lark,  fearing  that  heaven 
would  fall  down,  lay  on  her  back,  stretching  up  her  feet  towards  the  sky,  thinking  she  would 
thus  prevent  the  catastrophe.  Some  laughed  at  her  and  said,  "  With  your  spindle  legs,  you 
want  to  become  a  tree,  O  bird,  with  a  mind  capacious  as  the  sea."  The  lark  replied,  "  I  am 
doing  what  I  can." 

At  the  end  of  the  eleventh  century,  chronicles  and  histories  were  written  in  ancient 
Armenian  (Grabar),  but  there  was  also  a  language  of  the  people,  in  which  books  for  popular 
use,  such  as  collections  of  medical  recipes,  began  to  be  written  at  this  period,  as  well  as 
songs.  When  the  country  again  lost  its  independence  many  migrations  took  place.  It  was  not 
only  peasants  and  citizens  who  migrated  ;  some  of  the  nobles  also  sought  more  secure  dwelling 
places  in  mountainous  districts.  The  majority  of  these  settled  in  the  region  of  the  Taurus 
Mountains,  and  there  the  emigrants  multiplied  to  such  an  extent  that  they  equalled  the 
Greeks  in  number.  In  their  new  home  they  built  many  churches  and  abbeys,  where  they 
educated  the  boys  of  the  settlement.  Soon  they  established  a  number  of  villages  and  small 
towns,  and  the  princes  set  up  fortresses.  The  Byzantine  emperors  rather  encouraged  this 
progress,  as  they  thought  that  the  existence  of  small  buffer-states  on  their  frontier  would  serve 
as  a  barrier  against  the  attacks  of  Mohammedan  countries.  One  of  these  princes,  Rubin 
by  name,  established  himself  there  in  1080.  He  chose  an  impregnable  stronghold,  and  the 
Armenians  of  the  neighbourhood  came  and  put  themselves  under  his  protection.  Other 
Armenian  princes,  settled  in  the  surrounding  districts,  adopted  him  as  their  chief.  Having 
concentrated  and  strengthened  his  power,  he  ruled  his  httle  realm — which  was  called,  after 
him,  the  Rubinian  Principality — ^with  great  wisdom  for  fifteen  years.  He  was  succeeded  by 
his  son,  Constantine,  in  1095.  Constantine  extended  his  dominions  by  taking  some  almost 
impregnable  fortresses  from  the  Greeks.  During  his  reign  many  Europeans  began  to  come, 
with  their  armies,  to  the  East.  They  wore  the  badge  of  the  cross  on  their  arms,  and  were 
therefore  called  "  Crusaders."  They  cleared  Palestine  and  Syria  of  Mohammedans  and  set  up 
new  Christian  principalities  in  those  countries.  The  Armenians  called  these  strangers  ''Latins" 
because  they  were  all  Cathohcs  of  the  Roman  Church.  Constantine  rendered  great  services 
to  the  Crusaders  by  furnishing  them  with  guides,  providing  them  with  provisions,  etc.,  and 
the  European  princes,  as  an  acknowledgment,  conferred  on  him  the  title  of  "  marquis." 

The  successors  of  Constantine  extended  still  further  the  boundaries  of  the  principality. 
After  gaining  possession  of  the  mountains  and  strongholds,  they  came  to  the  plains  of  Cilicia 
and  imposed  their  rule  as  far  as  the  sea-coast.   At  this  time  the  Byzantine  Empire  was  very 

164 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

weak^  and  the  Mohammedan  Seljuks  and  Arabs  were  not  very  strong,  as  they  had  become 
divided  among  themselves  and  were  engaged  in  strife  with  one  another.  The  Crusaders  had 
also  formed  new  Christian  principalities  in  those  regions,  so  that  the  Rubinians  had  no  fears 
either  of  Mohammedans  or  of  any  other  foe.  Precisely  one  hundred  years  after  the  accession 
of  Rubin  I.,  the  Armenians  possessed  the  extensive  reach  of  territory  between  the  Taurus 
Range  and  the  sea,  where  they  had  built  many  fortresses,  towns,  and  even  ports. 

Leo  II.  (1185)  succeeded  in  repelling  the  attacks  of  the  Sultan  of  Damascus  and  other 
Mohammedan  rulers,  even  taking  some  towns  from  them. 

During  this  period,  Saladin,  Sultan  of  Egypt,  taking  advantage  of  dissension  among  the 
crusading  princes,  attacked  them,  and  took  Jerusalem  and  the  rest  of  Palestine  (1187). 

Then  a  new  Crusade  was  started,  led  by  the  German  Emperor  Frederick  Barbarossa. 
This  monarch  sent  emissaries  to  Leo,  asking  his  help  against  the  Mohammedans,  promising 
him  a  crown  as  a  reward.  Leo  supplied  the  Crusaders  with  provisions  and  rendered  them 
other  assistance.  Barbarossa  died  without  fulfilling  his  promise,  but  the  crown  was  sent  by 
his  successor,  Henry  VI.,  after  consultation  with  the  Pope  of  Rome.  Leo  was  crowned  king  in 
1 198.  The  following  year,  the  new  Armenian  king  also  obtained  recognition  from  the  Byzan- 
tine Emperor,  who  sent  him  a  crown.  Leo  still  further  extended  his  dominions  and  put  the 
whole  kingdom  into  excellent  condition.  He  did  not,  like  the  Bagratunis,  re-establish  the 
regime  of  the  Arsacidae,  but  tried  to  imitate  European  institutions,  inviting  many  French, 
English,  and  German  experts  to  his  kingdom,  giving  them  appointments  in  the  court,  the 
army,  and  the  council.  Many  new  schools  were  opened  in  this  reign  in  which  the  teaching 
was  entrusted  to  learned  Europeans  as  well  as  to  Armenians. 

Arts  and  handicrafts,  commerce  and  agriculture  also  flourished  under  this  king.  Leo 
died  in  1219  after  a  reign  of  thirty-four  years.  For  his  great  services  to  his  people,  he  was 
called  "  Leo  the  Benefactor." 

It  was  under  the  rule  of  this  king  that  Armenia  entered  into  close  relations  with  Europe. 
Just  as  the  Zoroastrian  Persians  and  afterwards  the  Greeks  had  inflicted  all  kinds  of  persecu- 
tions on  the  Armenians  in  order  to  convert  them  to  their  religions,  so  also  in  the  reign  of 
Leo  II.  and  for  many  years  afterwards  the  popes  of  Rome  did  everything  possible  to  make 
the  Armenians  join  their  Church.  The  popes  promised  the  Armenians  help  against  the  Moham- 
medans, they  even  offered  to  organise  a  Crusade,  but  the  first  condition  was  that  the  Armenians 
should  become  Catholics.  When  the  Armenians  did  not  accept  these  advances,  a  number  of 
Cathohc  priests  came  to  Armenia  and  tried  to  convert  them.  These  priests  were  called 
"  Unitors."  At  this  time  the  Tartars  (who  were  heathens)  became  very  strong  and  conquered 

165 


Armenia 

Persia.  The  Armenian  king  when  this  conquest  took  place  was  Hetum.  This  king,  though  he 
maintained  friendly  relations  with  the  courts  of  Europe,  attached  little  weight  to  promises 
emanating  from  these  quarters  ;  he  therefore  formed  an  alliance  with  the  Tartars  against  the 
Mohammedans.  He  tried  to  indoctrinate  his  new  allies  in  Christian  ideas  and  almost  effected 
their  conversion  to  Christianity.  That  he  did  not  quite  gain  his  object  is  due  to  external  causes. 
Hetum,  in  conjunction  with  the  Tartars,  fought  successfully  against  many  Mohammedan 
sultans,  but  the  Egyptian  mamelukes  grew  strong  and  the  Tartars  became  Mohammedans 
(1302),  whereupon  enmity  arose  between  them  and  the  Armenians.  Three  Mohammedan 
races — Seljuks,  Tartars,  and  mamelukes — one  after  another  attacked  Cilicia,  devastating  the 
country  and  plundering  many  towns.  The  Armenians  asked  assistance  from  the  Pope  and 
from  European  kings ;  help  was  promised  from  France,  but  it  never  came,  so  the  Tartars 
conquered  Cilicia  and  slew  its  king,  who,  however,  was  avenged  by  his  youngest  brother, 
Ashin,  who  collected  an  army  and  drove  the  Tartars  out  of  the  country  (1308). 

The  Mohammedan  kingdoms  became  very  powerful  at  this  time.  The  mamelukes 
dominated,  besides  Egypt,  Arabia,  Palestine,  and  Syria  as  far  as  the  Euphrates. 

The  common  aim  of  all  the  Mohammedan  governments  was  to  destroy  the  independent 
kingdom  of  Armenia,  because  it  was  the  only  Christian  state  in  Asia  that  was  capable  of  render- 
ing assistance  to  European  sovereigns  should  any  of  them  enter  on  a  new  Crusade  in  order 
to  gain  possession  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre.  When  the  mamelukes  heard  that  the  European 
states  were  planning  a  new  Crusade,  they  formed  an  alliance  with  the  Tartars  and  the  Sultan 
of  Iconia  and  devastated  Cilicia.  But  the  Armenians  made  a  brave  defence  and  the  mame- 
lukes granted  a  peace  for  fifteen  years.  By  this  peace  it  was  agreed  that  the  King  of  Armenia 
should  pay  a  certain  amount  of  tribute  and  the  mamelukes  should  restore  the  places  they  had 
taken.  Again  there  was  talk  of  a  Crusade,  and  the  Sultan  of  Egypt  again  attacked  Cilicia. 
Leo  V.  (King  of  Armenia)  asked  for  help  from  Europe,  but  the  only  assistance  given  was 
10,000  florins  sent  by  the  King  of  France  and  a  few  sacks  of  corn  from  the  Pope.  This  was 
not  what  the  Armenians  wanted  ;  in  fact  they  were  again  left  to  their  fate.  The  Mohammedan 
sultan  offered  to  restore  Leo's  kingdom  if  he  would  swear  on  the  Cross  and  the  Gospels  that 
he  would  have  no  deaHngs  with  the  Crusaders.  Leo  V.  died  in  1341,  and  as  he  had  no  children 
the  throne  passed  to  the  Lusignan  dynasty. 

There  were  only  four  kings  of  this  dynasty  :  the  last  king  was  Leo  VL  (1365-1375).  He 
was  taken  prisoner  when  the  sultan  invaded  and  devastated  Cilicia.  Thus  ended  the  kingdom 
of  Armenia.  After  a  few  years,  through  the  mediation  of  John,  King  of  Castille,  Leo  was  set 
at  liberty.  He  came  to  Europe  to  ask  for  help  in  regaining  his  kingdom.  There  was  a  talk  of 

166 


Its   Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

a  Crusade  specially  on  behalf  of  the  Armenians,  but  it  never  went  beyond  the  stage  of  pro- 
mises, and  the  last  King  of  Armenia  died  in  Paris  in  1393  and  is  buried  there  in  the  Abbey  of 
St.  Celestin. 

We  have  spoken  mostly  of  Cilicia  during  this  period.  If  we  wish  to  complete  the  picture 
of  the  devastation  of  Armenia,  we  must  name  Zenghis  Khan,  Tamerlane  (1387),  and 
other  enemies  of  the  human  race,  but  we  will  not  enter  into  particulars  of  their  work  of 
desolation. 

The  period  whose  history  we  have  sketched  (twelfth  to  fourteenth  centuries),  especially 
the  two  former  centuries,  is  called  the  Silver  Age  of  Armenian  literature.  The  inde- 
pendence of  Armenia  gave  a  breathing  space  which  facilitated  the  production  of  literary 
works.  This  is  the  period  of  the  revival  of  learning  and  also  the  period  when  Armenia 
came  in  contact  with  the  countries  of  Western  Europe  and  became  acquainted  with  Western 
civilisation. 

Catholicos  Nerses,  surnamed  "  the  Gracious,"  is  the  most  brilliant  author  of  the 
beginning  of  this  period  (1100-1173).  He  was  the  great-grandchild  of  Grigor  Magistros,  and 
his  brother  Grigorios  was  Catholicos  before  him.  His  songs  and  sharakans  are  greatly  loved 
by  the  people  and  some  of  the  latter  are  sung  in  the  churches.  He  was  canonised  as  a  saint. 
Nerses  was  the  first  Armenian  to  write  very  long  poems.  He  followed  his  great-grandfather  in 
using  rhyme.  There  is  a  great  variety  of  metre  in  his  works.  As  a  rule  his  long  poems  are 
written  in  eight-feet  lines,  the  same  rhyme  being  employed  nearly  throughout  the  poem.  This 
practice  he  abandoned  in  certain  cases  for,  as  he  himself  remarks,  "  it  might  tire  the  reader  " ! 
He  has  also  poems  written  in  couplets  of  short  lines,  which  are  the  most  musical  and  successful 
of  his  works.  Some  of  his  poems  have  peculiarities  of  their  own.  He  sometimes  begins  the 
lines  of  the  first  stanza  with  A,  those  of  the  next  with  B,  and  so  on  in  alphabetical  order, 
or  he  uses  the  same  letter  for  the  beginning  of  the  first  line  and  the  conclusion  of  the  last. 
He  also  sometimes  makes  metrical  acrostics  of  his  own  name.  Of  course  these  contrivances  were 
in  common  use  in  his  time.  Sometimes  he  makes  acrostics  of  the  titles  or  names  in  dedica- 
tions of  his  poems.  But  these  artificialities  do  not  spoil  the  poem  or  give  the  impression  of  a 
tour  de  force,  in  fact  they  are  so  unobtrusive  that  they  might  easily  escape  the  reader's  notice. 
In  all  he  has  written  15,000  lines. 

One  of  his  long  poems  entitled  Jesus  the  Son  consists  of  4000  eight-feet  lines.  These  lines, 
with  very  few  exceptions,  end  with  the  Armenian  syllable  -in.  Some  of  the  songs  in  this  poem 
are  very  beautiful  and  are  sung  in  churches. 

Another  of  his  long  poems  is  an  elegy  on  the  Fall  of  Edessa  which  was  taken  from  the 
167 


Armenia 

Crusaders  by  the  Turks  in  1144.  This  is  an  allegory  :  the  town  itself  recounts  its  misfortunes 
and  addresses  itself  to  other  cities  of  the  worlds  to  the  mountains,  to  the  seas,  and  begs  them 
not  to  judge  her  by  what  she  is  in  her  present  condition,  but  assures  them  that  she  was  once  a 
crown  bearer  and  in  a  most  happy  state,  but  now  she  is  in  mourning,  and  misfortune  has  befallen 
her.  As  Nerses  was  a  contemporary  of  the  event  which  forms  the  subject  of  the  poem,  the 
latter  has  an  historical  value,  being  a  first-hand  source  of  information  relating  to  the  times 
of  the  Crusaders. 

Nerses  also  wrote  a  long  poem  narrating  the  history  of  Armenia  from  the  days  of  Haik 
up  to  his  own  time.  Leo  III.,  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  after  the  poet's  death,  asked  the 
bishop  Vahram  Rabun  to  continue  the  poem  from  the  death  of  Nerses  to  his  own  time  (1275), 
thus  giving  the  annals  of  the  Rubinian  dynasty.  In  writing  this  sequel,  in  1500  lines,  he  said  : 
"  It  is  a  bold  act  to  continue  the  work  of  Nerses  the  Gracious,"  but  he  adds  that,  knowing  that 
with  gold  thread  embroidery  black  threads  are  sometimes  introduced,  he  consented  to 
undertake  the  labour. 

It  is  not  within  our  province  here  to  describe  the  great  work  achieved  by  Nerses  in  other 
directions,  but  he  was  much  beloved  by  his  people  and  has  left  an  immortal  name  as  the 
greatest  personahty  of  his  age.  We  only  here  record  one  incident  to  show  the  breadth  of  his 
ideas.  In  the  town  of  Edessa  pestilence  was  raging  and  sufferers  from  the  disease  were  taken 
out  of  the  town  and  segregated.  It  was  considered  hopeless  to  cure  them,  as  it  was  believed 
that  the  disease  came  as  a  punishment  from  God.  Nerses  sent  out  an  epistle  to  the  plague- 
stricken  people,  offering  them  consolation,  saying  that,  in  compensation  for  their  suffering, 
they  would  receive  eternal  bliss.  In  this  letter,  he  declares  that  the  disease  was  not  sent  from 
Heaven  as  a  punishment  and  people  should  not  avoid  the  sick ;  on  the  contrary,  it  was 
their  duty  to  care  for  their  brethren  when  they  were  in  distress,  and  he  assured  them  that,  with 
patience  and  right  treatment,  it  was  possible  to  get  rid  of  the  disease. 

This  counsel  made  an  immense  impression  on  the  people,  as  they  had  the  word  of  the 
Catholicos  that  this  was  not  a  heaven-sent  chastisement ;  they  nursed  the  patients  and  in  a 
short  time  the  pestilence  was  stayed. 

This  idea  of  Nerses,  though  it  is  now  commonly  held,  was  very  remarkable  in  the  age  in 
which  he  lived.  Nerses  the  Gracious  is  considered  the  Fenelon  of  Armenia.  Some  of  his 
elegies  are  perfect  gems  of  poetic  art.  One  of  his  prayers  is  divided  into  twenty-four  verses, 
according  to  the  twenty-four  hours,  one  verse  to  be  used  each  hour,  but,  seeing  that  this  is 
sometimes  impracticable,  he  says  that  it  might  be  read  in  three  portions  of  light  verses  in  the 
morning,  at  noon,  and  at  night.    If  this  division  is  also  impossible,  he  recommends  that  it 

168 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

should  be  read  in  two  portions,  in  the  morning  and  evening.  This  prayer  has  been  translated 
into  thirty-six  languages,  of  which  English  is  one. 

An  example  of  the  work  of  Nerses  the  Gracious,  entitled  "  The  Arrival  of  the  Crusaders," 
is  given  in  this  volume  on  page  58. 

This  is  hardly  a  representative  poem  and  is  not  the  best  specimen  of  the  author's  work. 
It  was  inserted  because  of  the  interest  of  the  Crusades  for  Europeans.  The  gems  of  his  work 
may  be  found  among  the  sharakans,  which  we  can  say  without  hesitation  will  bear  comparison 
with  any  work  of  this  class  in  any  language  of  the  world.  Unfortunately,  it  is  impossible  to  do 
justice  to  these  hymns  in  a  translation.  Nerses  also  wrote  verses  for  children,  and  riddles,  both 
in  the  vernacular. 

In  general,  his  language  is  simple  and  expressive.  He  also  composed  short  fables,  according 
to  a  contemporary  historian ;  some  of  these  were  recited  at  weddings  and  other  festivals. 

Mkhitar  Gosh  was  the  author  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  fables,  marked  by  good  taste, 
purity,  and  elegance.    He  died  in  1213.    He  is  called  the  Aesop  of  Armenia. 

The  following  is  a  specimen  of  Mkhitar  Gosh's  fables :  The  owl  sent  matchmakers  to  the 
eagle,  asking  his  daughter  in  marriage,  in  these  terms  :  "  You  are  the  ruler  of  the  day  ;  I  am 
the  ruler  of  the  night.  It  will  be  better  for  us  to  form  an  alliance  by  marriage." 

The  proposal  was  accepted. 

After  the  wedding,  the  bridegroom  could  not  see  by  day  and  the  bride  could  not  see  by 
night.  Therefore  the  falcons  ridiculed  them,  and  their  marriage  was  unhappy. 

This  fable  is  meant  as  a  warning  against  marriages  between  Christians  and  pagans. 

Many  of  Mkhitar  Gosh's  fables  are  very  original  and  have  a  charm  of  their  own. 

Another  famous  fabulist  was  Vardan  Aigektzi.  His  collection  of  fables  is  called  The 
Book  of  the  Fox,  Several  additions  have  been  made  to  this  work  by  later  hands,  so  that  the 
book  has  no  uniformity  of  style  and  some  fables  in  the  collection  are  childish  and  trivial. 

This  is  one  of  the  fables  in  this  book  : 

Mankind  is  like  three  fools.  The  first  went  to  the  tops  of  the  mountains  trying  to  catch 
a  wind,  and  take  it  home,  but  though  he  tried  a  hundred  years  he  never  caught  a  wind  that  was 
as  big  as  a  drop  of  rain.  The  second,  taking  with  him  a  number  of  servants  and  a  great  deal 
of  money,  sat  down  by  the  side  of  a  river,  trying  to  use  its  waters  as  a  tablet  on  which  to  inscribe 
an  elegy,  but  he  could  not  form  a  word  or  trace  a  letter,  though  he  laboiu-ed  for  a  hundred 
years.  The  third  tried  to  surpass  the  others  by  undertaking  two  enterprises  at  once.  He  had  a 
huge  bow  made  with  arrows  to  match,  and  tried  by  night  to  shoot  at  the  stars  and  other 
heavenly  bodies  and  bring  them  home,  that  he  alone  might  have  light,  but  he  could  not  catch 

169  N 


Armenia 

a  spark.  Besides  this,  during  the  day  he  ran  after  his  own  shadow,  but  never  caught  it,  though 
he  tried  for  a  hundred  years. 

The  moral  of  this  fable  is  the  futility  of  human  life  and  human  endeavour.  "  Vanity  of 
vanities  ;  all  is  vanity." 

Moses  Kaghankatvatzi  (seventh  century)  mentions  in  his  history  some  interesting  fables. 
In  one  of  them,  which  arose  when  there  was  a  great  famine  in  the  land,  the  story  is  put  into  the 
mouth  of  a  personification  of  the  grain  millet,  whose  narrative  is  to  this  effect : — 

"  I,  Millet,  was  lying  in  an  unknown  place  in  the  village  of  Kaku,  in  the  province  of 
Shakashen.  All  the  purchasers  treated  me  with  contempt  and  rejected  me.  Then  came  my 
brother.  Famine,  and  dominated  the  land.  From  that  day  I  went  and  sat  on  the  tables  of  the 
King  and  the  Catholicos." 

Armenian  apologues  and  proverbial  sayings  are  worthy  of  attention.  Here  are  a  few 
characteristic  specimens ;  some  of  these  are  rhymed  in  the  original,  in  others  the  contrasted 
words  rhyme  : — 

One  fool  threw  a  stone  into  a  well ;  forty  wise  men  were  unable  to  get  it  out. 

He  crossed  the  sea  safely,  and  was  drowned  in  a  brook. 

They  were  reading  the  Gospel  over  the  wolfs  head.  He  said  :  "  Hurry  up  !  The  sheep 
will  get  past." 

They  asked  the  partridge  :  "  Why  are  your  feet  red  i  "  "  From  the  cold,"  he  replied. 
"  We  have  seen  you  in  the  summer  as  well,"  they  rejoined. 

Are  you  the  corn  of  the  upper  field  i  (Who  are  you  that  you  should  be  set  above  others  i) 

A  black  cat  has  passed  between  them.  (Referring  to  friends  who  have  quarrelled.) 

Whenever  you  touch  a  stone,  may  it  become  gold  !  (A  blessing.) 

The  donkey  began  its  tricks  on  the  bridge. 

Light  for  others,  fire  for  the  house.  (A  saint  abroad,  a  devil  at  home.) 

The  black  donkey  is  tied  up  at  the  gate.  (A  worthless  thing  is  always  at  hand.) 

Here  is  a  riddle  by  Nerses  Shnorhali : — 

I  saw  an  outspread  white  tent,  wherein  black  hens  were  perched,  that  laid  eggs  of  various 
kinds  and  spoke  in  human  language.  (A  book.) 

Between  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century  and  the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth  lived, 
almost  contemporaneously,  three  great  poets,  all  ecclesiastics  : — Constantine  Erzingatzi, 
HovHANNEs  Erzingatzi,  and  Frik,  who  were  almost  the  last  singers  of  the  dying  Armenian 
kingdom. 

The  first  of  these,  Constantine  Erzingatzi,  was  born  about  1250-1260  in 
170 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

Erzingan.  From  early  youth  he  showed  poetic  talent  and  gained  favour  from  the  people,  but 
incurred  the  jealousy  of  his  own  associates.  In  one  of  his  poems  he  says  he  cannot  tell  why  his 
enemies  hate  him  and  expresses  a  desire  to  know  their  reason.  Erzingatzi  had  a  friend,  a  certain 
Amir  Tol,  who  lived  in  Tabriz.  Er^ingatzi  used  to  send  his  poems,  as  he  wrote  them,  to  this 
friend,  who  entered  them  in  a  book.  The  poems  in  this  collection  number  twenty-two.  The 
manuscript  is  preserved  in  the  library  of  St.  Lazare,  Venice.  The  themes  of  Erzingatzi's 
poems  are — among  other  things — the  love  of  the  rose  and  the  nightingale,  the  beauty  of  nature, 
the  wedding  of  the  flowers,  spring,  dawn,  and  morning.  In  his  love  poems,  he  throws  over 
his  emotions  a  mystic  veil  of  celestial  hue,  and  some  of  his  lines  rise  to  a  higher  level  than 
ordinary  amorous  verse.  For  him,  love  and  beauty  are  one  and  the  same.  He  says  that  one 
who  is  without  love  has  no  sense  of  beauty.  He  calls  his  lady-love  a  breeze  of  spring,  and  him- 
self a  thirsty  flower,  but  a  flower  on  which  only  a  hot  southern  blast  is  ever  blowing,  so  that  his 
love-thirst  continually  endures.  He  likens  his  mistress  to  the  radiant  heavenly  bodies — the 
sun,  moon,  and  stars — but  her  light  is  stronger  than  that  of  all  other  luminaries,  for  it  alone  can 
illumine  his  darkened  heart. 

Erzingatzi  says  that,  if  he  is  to  have  any  share  in  the  life  of  love  in  this  world,  he  will  be 
content  with  one  hour  of  "  morning  love  "  that  springs  from  the  heart.  For  that  he  is 
willing  to  exchange  his  life.  He  prays  to  God  for  such  love,  always  emphasising  the  word 
"  morning." 

Among  his  works  is  a  beautiful  poem  on  Spring,  which  begins  with  a  hundred  thousand 
thanksgivings  for  the  blessing  that  has  flown  down  from  heaven  to  earth  : — 

"  It  was  dark  and  every  stone  was  ice-bound  ;  there  was  not  a  green  herb,  but  now  the 
earth  arrays  itself  anew.  The  winter  was  like  a  prison,  the  spring  like  a  sun  that  rises  in  the 
night.  Everything  is  merry  and  joyous ;  even  the  dew-bringing  cloud  thunders  gently, 
spanning  the  earth  with  its  bow  and  causing  many  swift  rivers  to  flow,  which,  without  distinc- 
tion, throw  into  rapturous  intoxication  all  places  of  the  earth. 

"  Terribly  roar  the  streams  that  come  down  from  the  mountains,  but,  after  strolling  to  and 
fro  among  the  meadows  in  loving  fashion,  pass  on  to  touch  the  face  of  the  sea. 

"  The  birds  sing  sweetly ;  the  swallow  chants  psalms,  the  lark  comes,  reciting  the  praise 
of  the  morning.  All  leap  into  life — plants,  birds,  beasts  with  their  offspring ;  they  all  form 
themselves  into  one  great  flock  and  dance  together.  The  flowers  have  assembled  in  the  garden. 
The  Nightingale,  proclaiming  the  glad  things  of  the  great  resurrection,  also  enters  the  garden, 
seeking  the  Rose. 

"  When  the  time  is  ripe,  she  opens,  and  the  other  flowers,  when  they  see  the  splendour  of 
171 


Armenia 

the  Rose,  run  off,  over  hill  and  dale,  and,  from  fear,  lose  their  colour.  The  Nightingale  is 
intoxicated  with  the  sweet  odour  of  the  Rose.  Then  takes  place  a  festival  of  nature  and  the 
Rose  sings  her  own  praise." 

The  original  text  of  this  poem  is  a  real  achievement  as  regards  language,  poetical  expres- 
sions, and  art,  showing  that  Erzingatzi  was  a  master  of  his  craft. 

Erangatzi  was  also  the  author  of  a  long  narrative  poem,  called  Farman  and  Asman, 
recounting  the  love  adventures  of  a  Persian  princess.  This  was  composed  at  the  request  of  a 
Syrian  knight  and  shows  some  traces  of  Persian  influence. 

Another  long  narrative  poem  of  this  writer,  entitled  A  Girl's  Questions,  seems  to  owe 
something  to  Arabic  literature. 

Erzingatzi  is  also  the  author  of  many  didactic  poems.  Here  are  a  few  stanzas  from  another 
of  his  poems  : — 

"  Waken  from  your  dreams 
And  behold,  you  that  were  sleeping, 

How  through  all  the  night 
They  their  sleepless  watch  are  keeping. 

Ever  circling  round 
By  the  will  of  God  who  made  them  : 

And  heaven's  arches  wide 
To  uplift  and  hold  He  bade  them. 

"  I  awoke  from  sleep 
And  a  while  I  stood  and  waited. 

When  the  long  night  passed, 
When  appeared  the  dawn  belated, — 

Many  stars  of  light 
Watching  stood  to  greet  the  morning  ; 

Servants  of  our  God, 
All  the  sky  of  night  adorning. 

"  Then  a  Star  arose 
Near  the  Morning  Star,  in  Heaven  ; 

Fairer  than  all  stars. 
Radiance  to  that  Star  was  given. 

"  When  the  moon  beheld 
She  bade  all  the  stars  to  vanish. 
173 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

All  turned  pale,  and  set, 
As  she  spoke  their  light  to  banish. 

Cleared  was  heaven's  face 
And  the  sun  arose  in  splendour  ; 

Then  a  Child  appeared. 
Sweet  the  Name  He  had,  and  tender."* 

HovHANNES  Erzingatzi  (6.  1250)  was  educated  in  a  monastery  on  the  confines  of 
Georgia  and  Armenia  under  a  bishop  who  was  renowned  for  his  learning.  He  returned  to 
Erzingan  in  1272  and  travelled  to  Jerusalem  in  1281,  in  the  course  of  his  journey  passing 
through  Cilicia  in  order  to  visit  the  Armenian  royal  seat,  where  King  Leon  was  then  reigning. 
By  his  learning  and  talents  he  attracted  the  attention  of  the  Catholicos,  who  appointed  him 
director  of  all  the  schools  in  the  city. 

By  order  of  the  Cathohcos,  he  wrote  a  grammar,  remarkable  for  its  clear  and  comprehen- 
sible style  and  language.  He  also  came  under  the  notice  of  the  king.  At  the  annual  horse  race 
two  of  the  king's  sons  were  among  the  competitors.  On  this  occasion  Erzingatzi  made  a  speech, 
which  left  a  great  impression  and  gained  him  recognition  as  an  orator.  In  Cilicia  he  learnt 
Latin  and  made  several  translations  from  that  language  into  Armenian.  He  wrote  many 
Biblical  commentaries,  besides  other  rehgious  and  devotional  works,  as  well  as  treatises  on 
astrology ;  but  his  fame  rests  chiefly  on  his  verse.  In  addition  to  religious  and  moral  poems, 
he  wrote  love  songs,  and  lays  relating  to  nature.  In  his  ethical  as  well  as  in  his  love  poems  we 
find  quaint  metaphors  and  similes. 

As,  for  instance,  in  the  following  stanza,  where  our  poet  seems  to  be  forestalling 
Bunyan : — 

"  All  my  sins  I  once  amassed 
And  sat  down  before  them  weeping. 

When  the  caravan  went  past 
With  my  load  I  followed,  leaping. 

Then  an  angel  that  we  met, 
'  Woful  pilgrim,  whither  farest  S* 

Thou  wilt  there  no  lodging  get 
With  that  burden  that  thou  bearest.'  " 

In  another  poem,  entitled  "  Like  an  Ocean  is  this  World,"  which  appears  on  page  59  of 

■  All  the  metrical  translations  quoted  are  by  Miss  Z.  C.  Boyajian.  Like  her  other  translations  in  this  volume  they  are 
almost  literal  renderings,  and  the  original  metre  has  been  kept. 

173  Na 


Armenia 

this  volume^  he  uses  the  metaphor  afterwards  employed  in  Donne's  Hymn  to  Christ  and 
Tennyson's  Crossing  the  Bar, 

His  love  poems  are  exquisitely  fresh  and  rich. 

The  aesthetic  character  of  his  love  and  his  enthusiasm  for  beauty  are  shown  by  his  declara- 
tion, in  one  of  the  poems,  after  a  rapturous  expression  of  his  passion  for  a  lady  of  whom  he 
gives  a  rich-hued  word-portrait,  that  the  only  thing  that  keeps  his  feelings  within  bounds  is 
the  knowledge  that,  after  death,  her  face  will  wither  and  its  colours  fade. 

In  1284  he  went  to  Tiflis,  the  capital  town  of  Georgia,  where  he  gave,  in  the  newly-built 
church,  on  the  occasion  of  its  opening,  a  discourse  on  the  movements  of  the  heavenly  bodies. 
This  subject  had  a  great  fascination  for  him  and  he  treated  it  in  a  manner  that  deeply  impressed 
his  hearers,  including  the  king's  son  who  was  present.  His  discourse  was  not  a  sermon,  but  a 
poetical  oration.  On  the  prince's  asking  him  to  write  a  poem  on  the  same  subject,  he  wrote 
one  of  a  thousand  lines.  At  the  desire  of  another  prince,  he  composed  another  poem  on  the 
same  theme. 

Khachatur  Kecharetzi  (better  known  by  his  pen-name,  Frik)  was  a  priest 
who  was  born  at  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century  and  died  about  1330.  He  wrote  many 
poems,  several  of  which  are  of  an  allegorical  character ;  also  laments  on  the  state  of  his 
country,  and  several  mystic  and  other  religious  poems,  as  well  as  love  songs ;  but  his  most 
characteristic  work  is  the  poem  addressed  to  God,  asking  why  He  is  unmindful  of  the  terrible 
condition  of  the  Armenian  nation,  and  also  enumerating  the  inequalities  of  the  world,  showing 
how  the  wicked  prosper  and  the  righteous  suffer. 

"  If  we  are  useless  creatures  "  (he  says)  "  unworthy  of  Thy  care,  why  dost  Thou  not 
entirely  destroy  us  S"' 

An  extract  from  this  long  poem  is  given  in  this  volume  on  page  xv. 

At  the  close  of  the  fourteenth  century,  the  glory  of  Cilicia  vanished,  as  the  Armenian 
kingdom  became  extinct,  after  an  existence  of  nearly  three  hundred  years ;  and  Armenia  once 
more  became  the  scene  of  turmoil  and  bloodshed. 

The  fifteenth  century  opened  with  the  invasion  of  Tamerlane,  when  the  country 
was  again  desolated  and  subdued.  This  was  a  century  of  the  overthrow  of  Eastern 
civilisation. 

The  Byzantine  Empire,  shaken  from  its  foundation,  was  dashed  to  pieces,  and  its  capital, 
Oanstantinople,  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Ottomans  (1453),  a  new  Mohammedan  power,  which 
aspired  to  become  master  of  the  whole  of  Asia.  The  Turcomans  and,  later,  the  Persians,  tried 
to  check  the  advance  of  the  Turks  into  their  territories.   Hence  commenced  a  long  series  of 

174 


Its   Epics,  Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

wars  between  the  two  Mohammedan  states  which  continued  through  four  centuries,  and 
Armenia  passed  now  into  the  hands  of  the  one,  now  into  the  hands  of  the  other.  The  country 
was  again  the  scene  of  war,  wherein  reigned  desolation,  fire,  and  death. 

After  the  occupation  of  Constantinople,  Turkish  influence  extended  over  most  of  the 
eastern  part  of  Armenia. 

From  this  time,  migrations  of  Armenians  out  of  their  own  country  into  different  parts  of 
the  world  became  more  frequent. 

Twenty  years  after  the  invention  of  printing  (1476)  a  grammar  in  many  tongues  was 
published  in  France,  which  contains  several  pages  in  Armenian. 

In  1 5 12  the  first  Armenian  printed  book  was  issued  in  Venice.  After  that  Armenians  set 
up  presses  in  various  countries. 

Notwithstanding  the  political  position  of  the  country,  its  poetry  continued  to  flourish  and 
assumed  a  definite  character ;  and  the  voices  of  the  poets  rose  continually  louder  and  louder. 
This  century,  together  with  the  two  preceding  and  the  two  following  ones,  forms  a  flourishing 
age  for  poetry. 

The  chief  poets  of  this  century  are  : — Hovhannes  Tulkourantzi,  Mkrtich  Naghash, 
Grigoris  of  Aghtamar,  Nahapet  Kouchak,  Arakel  Sunetzi. 

Hovhannes  Tulkourantzi  (1450-1525)  was  Catholicos  of  Sis.  He  is  a  poet  of  the 
days  of  spring,  flowers,  beauty,  love.  He  wrote  also  moral  and  religious  poems,  besides  other 
things.  He  cannot  understand  how  it  is  possible  for  one  who  loves  a  beautiful  woman  to  grow 
old  and  die. 

"  Whosoever  loves  you,  how  can  he  die  i    How  can  his  face  grow  pale  in  death  i  " 

He  sings  of  the  sanctity  of  family  life,  warning  his  readers  against  the  strange  woman 
"  who  brings  torment  and  grief.  Even  his  lawful  wife  brought  trouble  to  Adam ;  what 
then  is  to  be  expected  of  the  stranger  S"  " 

He  has  a  striking  poem  on  Death,  which  he  addresses  thus  : — 

"  There  is  nothing  so  bitter  as  thou,  no  venom  is  more  bitter ;  only  Hell  surpasseth  thee,  and  it 
is  thou  who  bringest  Hell  in  thy  train.  Solomon  remembered  thee,  saying,  '  Of  what  profit  is  my  wisdom  S" 
Say  not  I  am  a  King  possessing  gold  and  treasures.' 

"  Alas,  O  death  !  thou  hast  a  grudge  against  the  sons  of  Adam  and  thou  avengest  thyself 
on  them. 

"  Thou  didst  not  consider  that  Moses  was  a  prophet,  nor  art  thou  ashamed  of  assaulting  David  ; 
thou  takest  even  Father  Abraham  ;  thou  draggest  King  Tiridates  from  his  throne  ;  and  thou  respectest 
not  the  Emperor  Constantine.^ 

'  These  monarchs  are  mentioned  because  they  were  the  first  Christian  sovereigns. 
175 


Armenia 

"  If  a  hero  is  attended  by  looo  horsemen  and  arrayed  in  six  coats  of  armour,  thou  shootest  thine  arrows 
at  him  and  bringest  him  down,  then  thou  castest  him  into  prison  and  before  the  entrance  thou  placest  a 
great  stone." 

The  poem  continues  : — 

"  Like  an  eagle  flying  far. 
Forth  on  wide-spread  wings  thou  farest ; 

All  the  strong  ones  of  the  earth 
In  thy  wing-tips  rolled  thou  bearest." 

In  other  poems  we  see  his  susceptibility  to  passion  and  his  sense  of  love's  power.  In  one 
of  these  poems  he  depicts '  a  bishop  of  loo  years  old  whose  beard  had  turned  from  white  to 
yellow  and  who,  when  officiating  at  the  altar,  suddenly  uttered  the  name  of  a  lady  in  his 
invocation  before  the  cross. 

Mkrtich  Naghash  was  Archbishop  of  Diarbekr.  He  lived  when  the  country  was 
in  difficult  political  circumstances.  His  talents  were  appreciated  not  only  by  Armenians,  but 
also  by  the  Mohammedan  rulers  with  whom,  thanks  to  his  tact,  he  established  friendly  relations, 
whereby  he  was  able  to  protect  his  compatriots  from  many  oppressions.  He  built  a  church, 
which  he  adorned  with  beautiful  pictures  of  his  own  painting.  But,  after  the  death  of  the 
Mohammedan  princes  who  were  his  patrons,  tyranny  and  oppression  began  again  under  their 
successors.  He  went  to  Byzantium  to  solicit  aid  for  his  suffering  countrymen,  but  returned 
disappointed. 

Besides  his  artistic  skill,  he  was  a  poet  of  considerable  merit.  His  poems  are  generally 
on  moral  and  religious  themes — the  vanity  of  the  world,  avarice,  and  so  forth ;  he  also  wrote 
songs  of  exile,  and  love  songs. 

In  his  poem  on  avarice  he  says  that  that  vice  is  the  root  of  all  evil :  "  Kings  and  princes 
are  continually  fighting  against  one  another,  watering  the  country  with  blood.  They  destroy 
flourishing  towns ;  they  drive  the  inhabitants  into  exile ;  and  spread  desolation  wherever 
they  go ;  and  all  this  is  through  avarice." 

He  goes  on  to  specify  other  evils  springing  from  this  sin. 

In  the  love  songs  of  Mkrtich  Naghash,  the  Rose  and  the  Nightingale  whisper  to  each  other 
fiery  love  speeches  complaining  of  each  other's  cruelty.  Then  they  admonish  each  other  not 
to  let  their  passion  consume  them,  and  sing  each  other's  praises. 

This  is  an  extract  from  one  of  his  songs  of  exile :   "  The  thoughts  of  an  exile  from  his 

'  In  the  Armenian  Church  there  are  two  classes  of  clergy — the  higher  order  to  which  bishops  belong  and  who  do  not 
marry,  and  the  lower  order  of  parish  priests  who  do  marry, 

176 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

country  are  wanderers  like  himself.  If  his  mind  is  wiser  than  Solomon's,  if  his  words  are 
precious  pearls,  in  a  foreign  land  they  bid  him  be  silent  and  call  him  an  ignorant  fool.  His  death 
is  as  bitter  as  his  life  ;  there  is  no  one  to  cross  his  hands  over  his  heart ;  they  laugh  as  they 
cover  him  with  earth ;  no  mourner  follows  him  to  the  grave.  But  I,  Naghash,  say  that  an  exile's 
heart  is  tender.  In  a  foreign  land,  what  is  sweet  seems  gall ;  the  rose  becomes  a  thorn.  Speak 
gently  to  an  exile ;  give  him  a  helping  hand,  and  you  will  expiate  your  sins  which  rankle 
like  thorns." 

These  songs  of  exile  (or  pilgrim  songs)  are  a  special  feature  of  Armenian  poetry  and  for 
ages  have  been  written  by  various  poets.  They  are  original  and  often  quaint  and  express  the 
feelings  of  Armenians  who  live  far  from  their  native  mountains  and  fields,  showing  how  they 
pine  for  the  land  of  their  birth,  reflecting  the  natural  beauties  of  their  fatherland,  and  their 
yearning  for  their  hearth  and  the  dear  faces  of  home. 

In  1469  in  the  town  of  Mardin  there  was  an  epidemic  of  smallpox,  which  caused  many 
deaths.  He  thus  describes  one  of  the  victims  :  "  A  youth  beautiful  to  see,  the  image  of  the 
sun ;  his  brows  were  arches  ;  his  eyes  like  lamps  guiding  him  by  their  light.  This  lovely  child 
lay  on  the  ground,  writhing  piteously,  looking  to  right  and  left,  while  the  terrible  Angel  of 
Death  was  busily  engaged  in  loosing  the  cords  of  his  soul.  Then  the  boy  cried,  saying :  '  Pity 
me  and  save  me  from  the  hands  of  this  holy  angel,  for  I  am  young.'  Then  he  turned  to  his 
father,  and  asking  help  from  him,  said  :  *  There  are  a  thousand  desires  in  my  heart  and  not 
one  of  them  fulfilled.' 

"  The  father  answered  :  *  I  would  not  begrudge  gold  and  silver  for  thy  redemption  ;  but 
these  are  of  no  avail.  I  would  willingly  give  my  life  for  thine.'  In  the  end  the  light  of  the 
child's  life  was  extinguished ;  the  lovely  hue  of  his  face  faded ;  his  sea-like  eyes  lost  their 
lustre  ;  the  power  of  his  graceful  arm  was  cut  off." 

Here  is  a  translation  in  verse  of  a  poem  on  a  mysterious  Flower  : — 

"  All  the  lovely  flowers  that  were 
One  by  one  have  left  and  gone, 
One  Flower  too  there  was  that  went 
Mourned  and  wept  by  every  one. 

Sweetest  fragrance  had  that  Flower, 

Scent  that  filled  the  earth  and  air. 

So  that  all  the  flowers  of  earth 

Sought  in  love  this  Blossom  fair. 
Some  for  this  sweet  Flow'ret's  sake 
Paled  and  withered  languidly  ; 
177 


Armenia 

Many  for  this  Flow'ret's  sake 
Blossomed  like  the  almond  tree. 

God  Himself  had  sent  that  Flower, 

But  all  did  not  know  its  worth. 

He  that  gave  took  back  His  own, 

Many  wept  upon  the  earth. 
And  the  Flower  went  to  a  place 
Where  all  flowers  rejoiced  and  smiled  ; 
Flowers  of  many  a  brilliant  hue 
With  its  sweetness  it  beguiled. 

From  its  beauty  other  flowers 

Borrowed  lustre,  and  they  glowed  ; 

Every  blossom  in  its  kind 

To  that  Flower  knelt  and  bowed." 

Grigoris  of  Aghtamar  was  born  about  1418  and  was  Catholicos  of  Aghtamar, 
an  island  in  the  Lake  of  Van,  which  has  picturesque  surroundings  fit  to  inspire  a  poet ;  so 
that  it  is  not  surprising  that  our  Catholicos  became  a  singer  animated  by  poetic  fire,  the 
exponent  of  love  and  beauty — of  the  Nightingale  and  the  Rose. 

It  is  evident,  from  his  works,  that  Grigoris  had  a  great  love  of  life.  We  see  this  especially 
in  a  poem  entitled  The  Gardener  and  his  Garden.  The  Gardener,  says  the  poet,  enters  his 
garden  every  morning  and  hears  the  sweet  voice  of  the  nightingale  as  he  examines  the  newly 
planted  flowers  of  various  colours.  This  beautiful  spot  he  surrounds  with  a  hedge,  bringing 
stones  from  the  river,  thorns  from  the  mountain.  He  has  just  built  arbours,  made  a  fountain, 
introduced  little  running  brooks,  and  planted  vines,  when,  all  of  a  sudden,  a  voice  utters 
the  command  :  "  Come  out  of  thy  garden."  It  is  Death  who  beckons  him  out.  He  expostu- 
lates :  *'  I  have  not  yet  seen  life  and  light ;  I  have  not  yet  seen  the  fruit  of  the  garden ;  I  have 
not  yet  smelt  the  rose ;  I  have  not  yet  drunk  my  wine  or  filled  my  casks  ;  I  have  not  plucked 
flowers  for  a  nosegay.   I  have  not  yet  rejoiced  over  my  garden." 

But  his  prayers  are  not  heeded ;  obedient  to  the  unchangeable  law  of  the  universe,  he  at 
last  capitulates  to  the  Angel  of  Death. 

After  describing  the  Gardener's  death  and  burial,  the  poet  goes  on  to  tell  what  happens  to 
the  garden  after  its  owner  has  left  it ;  the  rose  fades  ;  the  other  flowers  disappear ;  the  hedge 
is  broken  down,  and  what  was  once  a  lovely  garden  becomes  a  scene  of  desolation. 

This  is  his  description  of  the  face  of  his  lady-love.  He  likens  her  eyebrows  to  a  sword ; 
the  sparkle  of  her  eyes  to  a  sharp  lance ;  her  eyes  to  the  sunlit  sea.  She  is,  he  says,  as  straight 

178 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

as  a  willow ;  her  lips  are  like  harp  strings  ;  her  teeth,  a  row  of  pearls  ;  her  tongue  is  sugar ; 
and,  wherever  she  rests,  the  place  becomes  a  garden.  She  has  fragrance  sweeter  than  the 
violet  of  the  spring ;  she  is  like  a  white  rose,  pure  and  sweet,  like  a  newly  opened  flower  ;  a 
young  almond  plant.  Her  face  is  red  and  white,  like  an  apple  of  the  forest.  She  soars  high, 
like  a  daring  eagle.    She  is  brilliant  as  a  peacock  with  golden  feathers. 

We  have  in  this  volume  (page  52)  a  translation  of  one  of  Grigoris'  longer  poems, 
entitled  "  Concerning  the  Rose  and  the  Nightingale,"  in  which  it  is  interesting  to  note  that 
— quaintly  enough — the  poet  gives  the  text  of  a  letter  sent  with  great  pomp,  by  special 
messengers,  to  the  Rose ;  adding  the  consequence  which  followed,  and  the  verbal  answer 
returned. 

The  subject  of  the  Rose  and  the  Nightingale  is  a  Persian  one  originally,  but  the  outstanding 
characteristics  of  the  Armenian  versions  consist  in  the  refinements  and  subtleties  of  the  feelings 
described,  the  deference  paid  to  the  Rose,  and  the  idea  of  continuity  and  faithfulness  in  love. 
These  feelings  are  minutely  described  in  this  beautiful  poem,  and  summed  up  in  the  Rose's 
message  to  the  Nightingale  on  p.  56  ; — 

"  I  cannot  there  return  immediately ; 
A  little  he  must  wait,  in  patient  wise  : 
But  if  his  love  is  perfectly  with  me, 
Tell  him  to  look  for  it  in  Paradise." 

These  ideals  constitute  the  difference  between  the  mentality  of  Mohammedanism  and 
Christianity. 

Nahapet  Kouchak  was  a  fine  poet  of  the  seventeenth  century.  He  is  called  the 
Psalmist  of  Love.  Although  there  is  a  slight  resemblance  in  style  between  his  writings  and  those 
of  the  Persian  poets,  his  poetry  is  original.  The  works  attributed  to  him  have  only  recently 
been  published  as  a  whole ;  they  have  been  translated  into  French  and  other  languages,  and 
greatly  admired.  Some  critics  have  placed  him  higher  than  Sadi  and  other  Persian 
poets.   (Examples  of  his  work  are  given  on  pages  4,  5,  and  31.) 

Arakel  Sunetzi  was  the  Metropolitan  of  the  province  of  Suni.  He  appears  to  have 
possessed  a  thorough  acquaintance  with  the  writings  of  his  time.  His  chief  work  is  the  Book 
of  Adam,  a  long  narrative  poem,  teUing  the  story  of  the  Fall  in  the  style  of  a  romance  in  which 
theology,  lyrics,  heroic  lays,  and  folklore  are  all  fused  together. 

Adam,  though  because  of  his  great  love  for  his  wife  he  was  inclined  to  yield  to  her  petition, 
yet  wavered,  not  knowing  whether  to  hearken  to  his  spouse  or  to  his  Creator.  "  But  his  mind 

179 


Armenia 

went  with  his  eyes  ;  he  deserted  God,  but  not  the  woman  ;  for,  without  Eve,  half  of  his  body 
was  dead,  and  with  the  other  half  it  was  impossible  to  live." 

Among  the  lyrics  in  this  book  is  one  entitled  The  Rib,  of  which  we  subjoin  two 
stanzas : — 

"  The  rib  is  bow-shaped,  so  her  face, 
Sped  by  her  looks,  is  like  a  dart ; 
Who  gazeth  on  a  woman's  grace. 
No  salve  or  drug  can  cure  his  smart. 

"  And  for  the  rib  is  high  and  low — 
One  side  is  vaulted,  one  is  round. 
Her  face  doth  love  and  sweetness  show 
Whilst  in  her  heart  fierce  hate  is  found," 

Here  is  a  passage  from  another  poem  of  Sunetzi's  entitled  The  Glory  of  the  Saints,  describ- 
ing the  Resurrection : — 

"  Opened  are  the  tombs  ; 
Now  rise  the  dead  that  long  in  dust  have  lain. 

Decked  with  brilliant  hues, 
Bright  as  the  sun,  they  cannot  fade  again. 

While  the  earth,  renewed, 
Doth  greet  the  Lord,  all  fresh  and  dazzling  white  ; 

And  the  heavens  are  decked 
More  richly  than  before,  sevenfold  more  bright. 

Then  in  heaven  shines  forth 
With  arms  stretched  out  like  rays,  the  Holy  Rood. 

With  the  Cross  appear 
The  hosts  of  fire — a  coimtless  multitude. 

Butterflies  dance  forth 
Amongst  the  angels — none  may  mark  them  out," 

In  the  sixteenth  ccntiuy,  Ttirkish  and  Persian  wars  became  fiercer  and  the  Armenian 
history  of  this  century  becomes  the  record  of  the  sufferings  of  the  country  during  these  wars. 
Poets  of  this  period  were  Nerses  Mokatzi,  Minas  Tokhatzi,  Ghazar  of  Sebastia,  Sarkavak 
Bertaktzi. 

Nerses  Mokatzi  was  an  ecclesiastic  and  poet.  Very  few  of  his  works  have  come  down 
to  us.  One  of  the  poems  we  have — entitled  The  Dispute  between  Heaven  and  Earth — is  inter- 
esting.   The  poet  begins  by  saying  that  Heaven  and  Earth  are  brothers.    One  day  these 

i8o 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

brothers  disputed  as  to  which  of  them  was  the  greater.    "  Of  course/*  says  the  poet,  "  the 
Heaven  is  high,  but  the  Earth  is  more  fruitful," 

He  then  goes  on  to  report  a  dialogue  between  the  brothers  in  which  each  enumerates  his 
own  possessions,  declaring  them  superior  to  those  of  the  other.  The  following  is  a  short  prose 
summary  of  this  dialogue  : — 

Heaven.  Surely  I  possess  more  than  you.    The  stars,  with  their  radiance,  are  all  in  my  domain. 

Earth.  The  flowers,  with  their  six  thousand  colours,  are  in  mine. 

Heaven.  If  I  withhold  my  dew,  how  will  your  flowers  array  themselves  i 

Earth.  You  derive  your  dew  from  the  sea,  which  originates  in  me.  K  I  cut  off  the  source  of  the  sea, 
how  would  you  get  your  dew  i 

Heaven.  I  have  something  else  that  you  have  not :  should  I  veil  my  sun  your  flowers  would  fade. 

Earth,  Oh,  I  will  bring  forth  waters  from  my  abyss  to  keep  my  flowers  alive. 

Heaven.  The  lightning  and  the  hail  could  destroy  your  flowers  if  I  willed  it  so. 

Earth.  I  have  mountains  and  valleys  that  would  intercept  them  and  shield  the  flowers. 

Heaven.  All  brave  and  wise  men  are  buried  in  your  depths. 

Earth.  When  God  recalls  the  souls  that  are  His,  what  is  to  be  done  ^  If  I  did  not  receive  and  conceal 
their  bodies,  the  angels  would  flee  from  the  deathly  odour,  and  Heaven  and  Earth  would  be  shaken. 

Heaven.  The  Nine  Orders  of  Angels  are  all  here  with  me. 

Earth.  In  my  realm  are  the  Apostles  and  Prophets. 

Heaven.  I  am  the  Heaven  of  Seven  Regions ;  the  Sun,  the  Moon,  and  the  Creator-God  sitting  on 
His  throne  all  have  their  abode  in  me. 

Earth.  Your  Seven  Regions  will  be  shaken  from  their  foundation.  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  and  the 
Stars  will  be  cast  into  the  darkness  and  your  Creator-God,  with  His  throne,  will  descend  to  me.  The 
Judgment  will  be  held  in  my  domain. 

"  Heaven  then  bent  down  its  head 
To  the  Earth  in  adoration. 

You  too,  children  of  the  Earth, 
Bow  to  her  in  adoration. 

What  is  higher  than  the  Earth  ^ 
Praise  and  love  bring  to  enwreathe  her. 

For  to-day  we  walk  on  her 
And  to-morrow  sleep  beneath  her."  ^ 

'  It  is  interesting  to  compare  this  with  a  Persian  poem  by  Essedi  of  Tus  called  a  dispute  between  Day  and  Night. 
In  the  former  the  Earth  is  victorious,  in  the  btter  the  Day.  The  Persian  is  essentially  Mohammedan  in  spirit  and  conven- 
tional, whereas  the  Armenian  is  almost  modem. 

Day,  By  day  the  pious  fast  and  pray ; 
And  solemn  feasts  are  held  by  day. 
i8i 


Armenia 

This  poem  is  interesting,  as  it  breathes  the  spirit  of  the  revival  of  popular  poetry,  with  its 
worship  of  nature,  beauty,  and  love,  of  which  things  the  Earth  is  the  personification.  Hence 
the  poet  exalts  Earth  above  Heaven.  Here  we  see  also  a  change  of  ideas.  The  older  Christian 
poets  were  churchmen  and  sang  contempt  of  the  present  world  and  concentration  on  the  joys 
of  heaven.  This  new  note,  struck  from  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century,  gradually  grows 
bolder,  and  sounds  forth  daringly,  as  we  hear  it  in  this  poem,  which  seems  all  the  more 
remarkable  when  we  remember  that  its  author  was  a  priest.  This  is  the  song,  not  of  a  lover  of 
vanities,  but,  rather,  of  an  enthusiast,  who  loves  beauty  and  has  learnt  that  it  is  good  to  live 
on  the  earth,  because  it  also  contains  beautiful  things  that  are  worth  living  for.  This  poem 
also  shows  the  conquest  of  learning  and  science  which,  at  the  time  it  was  written,  had  found 
their  way  into  Armenia  as  well  as  elsewhere,  perhaps  through  the  new  Armenian  colonies 
formed  in  Europe  and  other  parts  of  the  world. 

MiNAS  ToKHATZi,  a  humorous  poet,  hved  in  Poland.  He  wrote  verses  on  Toothache  and 
on  Tobacco  (descanting  on  its  objectionable  odour  and  showing  how  the  smoker  becomes  its 
slave) ;  also  on  Flies. 

To  convey  an  idea  of  his  art,  we  give  the  substance  of  the  last-named  work  : — 

"  The  flies,"  says  the  poet,  "  for  some  reason  or  other,  went  forth  to  combat  against 
me.  They  also  entered  into  a  conspiracy  with  my  penknife.  Knowing  of  this,  I  implored 
the  knife  not  to  listen  to  the  accursed  insects,  who  had  already  caused  me  enough  pain.  The 
attack  was  begun  in  a  novel  fashion ;  the  flies  came,  buzzing,  in  gay  and  merry  mood,  and 
settled  on  my  hands  and  arms  in  a  friendly  manner,  asking  me  to  write  them  something  in 
red  ink.    At  the  same  time,  the  penknife,  playing  me  a  perfidious  trick,  cut  my  hand.    I 

Night.  Day  can  but  paint  the  skies  with  blue, 

Night's  starry  hosts  amaze  the  view. 
Day.     ...  I  am  a  Moslem — white  my  vest, 

Thou  a  vile  thief,  in  sable  drest. 

Out,  negro-face  I — dar'st  thou  compare 

Thy  cheeks  with  mine,  so  purely  fairs' 

.  .  .  The  Sun  is  ruddy,  strong,  and  hale ; 
The  moon  is  sickly,  wan,  and  pale. 
Methinks  'twas  ne'er  in  story  told 
That  silver  had  the  worth  of  gold  ! 
The  moon,  a  slave,  is  bowed  and  bent. 
She  knows  her  light  is  only  lent. 
She  hurries  on,  the  way  to  clear. 
Till  the  Great  Shah  himself  appear. 

From  "  The  Rose  Garden  of  Persia," 
183 


Its   Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

protested  against  this  treatment.  The  penknife  justified  itself  by  saying  it  had  acted  thus 
because  I  had  told  a  lie.  I  got  a  few  moments*  rest,  after  this,  from  the  flies,  till,  at  dinner- 
time, I  met  with  three  of  them,  who  announced  that  more  were  coming.  The  combat  was 
renewed.    During  the  night,  the  flies  were  relieved  by  their  allies,  the  fleas." 

Ghazar  of  Sebastia,  an  ecclesiastic,  has  fallen  under  the  spell  of  some  eyes  "  as 
deep  as  the  sea."  He  describes  the  torment  under  which  he  is  pining  away  and  his  longing 
for  his  mistress's  arrival,  like  the  longing  of  a  patient  for  his  physician.  The  face  of  his  love 
(he  says)  is  like  glistening  amber ;  her  eyes  are  so  bewitching,  that 

"  The  sun  and  moon  have  unto  thee  come  down, 
Lovingly  on  thy  locks  they  hang,  and  gleam  ; 
And  clustering  stars  thy  beauteous  forehead  crown, 
Aflame  and  drunken  with  thy  love  they  seem." 

There  is  nothing  known  of  Sarkavak  Bertaktzi,  but  this  poem  from  his  pen  is 
interesting : — 

"  O  vine,  you  should  commended  be 
For  you  are  beautiful  to  see  ; 
Your  fruit  is  of  all  fruits  most  fair  : — 
The  crown  and  diadem  they  wear. 
Like  strands  of  gold  your  branches  spread, 
Like  ropes  of  pearl  the  grapes  they  thread. 
For  some  are  dark  and  some  are  white, 
And  some  are  red,  transmitting  light. 
Some  glow  hke  amber  in  the  dusk, 
Perfumed  with  frankincense  and  musk. 
Left  us  by  the  Creator's  care, — 
From  Eden's  fields  a  keepsake  rare. 
To  us  on  earth  you  seem  to  be 
The  fruit  of  immortality. 
To  Noah  you  were  by  angels  borne 
His  heart  to  gladden  and  adorn. 
Your  fruit  when  gathered  from  the  vine 
Unto  the  wine-press  we  assign  ; 
Your  juice  like  crimson  roses  glows 
And  through  the  press  in  torrents  flows. 
Then  into  jars  we  pour  the  meath, 
There  without  fire  to  boil  and  seethe. 
How  many  kings  around  you  press. 
Your  name  how  many  princes  bless  ! 
183 


Armenia 

The  Sovereign's  heart  you  fill  with  joy. 
With  power  to  conquer  and  destroy  ; 
If  he  is  wroth  with  any  man, 
And  places  him  beneath  his  ban. 
One  drop  of  you  immediately 
Would  move  his  heart  to  set  him  free. 
The  man  that  from  his  birth  was  blind, 
Drinking  of  you,  his  sight  doth  find  ; 
Of  glorious  cities  he  can  tell, 
Wherein  his  footsteps  never  fell. 
The  dumb,  that  halted  in  his  speech. 
To  prate  with  fluency  you  teach. 
More  glibly  than  a  parrot,  he 
Will  jest  and  wanton  dotingly. 
At  mass,  within  the  sacred  cup. 
The  holy  priest  doth  raise  you  up. 
Disease  and  pain  through  you  will  cease. 
By  you  all  sinners  find  release. 
To  town  and  village  you  are  borne. 
To  convent,  wilderness  forlorn; 
Where  men  do  not  your  sparkle  see. 
No  mass  nor  service  can  there  be." 

The  seventeenth  century  resembles  its  predecessor  as  regards  the  political  position  of 
Armenia,  except  that  the  misery  is  even  greater. 

During  the  last  years  of  the  eighteenth  century^  the  Russian  conquest  of  Armenia  began. 

At  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century  an  Armenian  monk  named  Mkhitar  Sepas- 
TATZi  established  at  St.  Lazare  in  Venice  an  Armenian  Brotherhood,  who  devoted  themselves 
to  literature.  This  Brotherhood  is  still  in  existence,  and  has  a  branch  in  Vienna.  During 
this  period  of  more  than  a  century  its  members  have  printed  hundreds  of  old  MSS.  of  his- 
torical value.  They  have  also  produced  many  works  dealing  with  history  and  other  branches 
of  learning,  and  translations  of  foreign  classics,  thus  rendering  a  great  service  to  Armenian 
literature. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  Byron  stayed  at  St.  Lazare  and  studied  Armenian.  He  actually 
took  part  in  the  publication  of  an  Armenian-English  dictionary  and  grammar. 

For  centuries  music  and  song  have  become  a  joy  to  Armenians  through  minstrels  called 
ashoughs,  Ashoughs  are  invited  to  all  weddings  and  other  festivities,  where  they  are  the  life 
of  the  party  and  the  makers  of  merriment.    They  sing  also  on  the  bridges  and  in  the  squares. 


Its  Epics,   Folk-SongSj  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

and  wander  from  courtyard  to  coiurtyard.  Their  song  is  not  always  merry ;  it  is  sometimes 
sad,  sometimes  even  bitter.  They  always  carry  with  them  their  saz  or  tar  or  kamancha, 
oriental  instruments,  on  which  they  accompany  their  songs.  Many  of  the  ashoughs  axe 
blind.  To  be  an  ashough  is  considered  a  high  attainment.  In  order  to  acquire  the  art, 
any  one  who  aspires  to  become  an  ashough  first  observes  a  fast  of  seven  weeks,  then  goes  to 
the  monastery  of  Sourb  Karapet,  which  is  the  Parnassus  of  Armenian  musicians.  "  Sourb 
Karapet  "  is  John  the  Baptist,  who  is  the  patron  saint  of  Armenian  minstrels.  In  the  Near 
East,  ashoughs  (who  are  mostly  Armenians)  are  greatly  admired  not  only  by  Armenians,  but 
by  Persians,  Turks,  and  other  races,  as  some  of  them  sing  in  other  languages  besides  Armenian. 
Some  ashoughs  sing  their  own  verses,  but  as  a  rule  the  songs  are  the  composition  of  a  special 
class  of  poets.  The  songs  of  these  other  ashoughs  often  reveal  deep  feelings  and  many  of 
them  are  high-class  poems. 

As  a  typical  ashough  author,  I  will  only  mention  Sayat  Nova.  His  lyre  attained 
extreme  sweetness ;  he  combines  all  the  vivid  colouring  of  the  East  with  soft  and  refined 
shading.  He  was  born  in  1712.  He  was  a  special  favourite  at  the  court  of  the  Georgian 
king.  In  his  own  words,  he  "  sat  in  the  palace  among  the  beauties  and  sang  to  them," 
but  his  songs  seem  not  merely  to  be  poems  in  praise  of  court  beauties,  or  for  their  amuse- 
ment ;  they  seem  an  expression  of  the  deep  feelings  of  his  heart.  A  word-picture  of  his 
lady-love  will  be  found  on  page  74  of  this  volume  ("  Thy  Voice  is  Sweet  "). 

His  love  is  so  intense  that  one  sees  at  once  that  he  is  capable  of  deep  feelings  and  one  is 
drawn  to  him ;  yet  this  love  is  pure  and  unselfish.  He  describes  his  love  as  a  sea  and  himself 
as  a  little  barque  floating  on  it.  For  ten  years  he  has  wooed  the  lady  as  a  prince,  but  without 
success ;  he  will  not  relinquish  the  pursuit  of  her,  but  resolves  now  for  seven  years  to  pay 
court  to  her  in  the  character  of  a  pilgrim-minstrel. 

He  is  even  content  only  to  sleep  on  her  doorstep.  There  is  something  else  that  is  a  part 
of  his  life,  namely,  his  kamancha.  He  threatens  to  cut  the  strings  of  his  instrument  if  he  is 
a  week  without  seeing  his  beloved. 

Once  he  comes  face  to  face  with  his  lady-love  and  says  : — 

"  What  avails  me  now  a  physician  S*  The  ointment  burns,  and  does  not  heal  the  wound, 
but  your  medicine  is  a  different  one." 

But  she  replies  that  she  has  no  remedy  for  him.  In  another  poem  he  is  in  despair,  and 
says : — 

"  Without  thee,  of  what  use  is  the  world's  wealth  $*  I  will  don  the  habit  of  a  monk  and 
visit  the  monasteries  one  by  one.    Perhaps  in  one  of  them  I  shall  discover  a  way  of  redemp- 

185  o 


Armenia 

tion  from  my  hopeless  love."  (See  "  Without  Thee  what  are  Song  and  Dance  to  Me  i  "  on 
page  85  of  this  volume.) 

In  another  poem  he  expresses  the  wavering  between  earthly  and  heavenly  life, 
saying : — 

"  If  one  obeys  the  will  of  the  soul,  then  the  body  is  offended.  How  shall  I  escape  this 
sorrow  S*  " 

At  last  he  carries  out  his  declaration  and  becomes  a  monk.  He  secludes  himself  from  the 
world  in  a  lonely  monastery,  far  away  from  Tiflis  ;  but  once  he  hears  that  a  minstrel  has  come 
to  that  city  whom  none  can  equal,  whereupon  he  steals  out  of  the  monastery,  disguised  as  a 
layman,  and  taking  his  saz  with  him,  goes  to  Tiflis,  enters  into  contest  with  the  new  minstrel, 
and  conquering  him,  saves  the  honour  of  his  native  town. 

In  1795  Agha  Mohammed  Khan  laid  waste  Tiflis  and  many  other  towns  of  that  region. 
His  soldiers  entered  the  monastery  where  Sayat  Nova  was  praying  and  commanded  him  to 
come  out  and  become  a  Mohammedan  if  he  wished  to  save  his  life  ;  but  he  replied,  in  verse, 
that  he  was  an  Armenian  and  would  not  deny  his  Christ.  He  was  therefore  martyred  on  the 
spot.  Other  poems  of  his  appear  on  pages  35  ("  I  have  a  Word  I  fain  would  say  "),  14  ("  I 
beheld  my  Love  this  Morning  "),  no  ("  Thou  art  so  Sweet  "). 

We  have  given  specimens  of  mediaeval  Armenian  poetry ;  we  now  proceed  to  indicate 
in  outline  its  most  striking  characteristics. 

The  theme  of  the  Armenian  pagan  minstrels  was  the  heroic  deeds  of  their  country's 
history.  The  adoption  of  Christianity  imparted  to  Armenian  poetry  a  specific  form  and  tone. 
At  the  same  time  it  was  the  revival  of  the  old  Armenian  valour,  which,  strengthened  by 
the  circumstances  in  which  the  Armenians  lived,  produced  a  religious  poetry  of  great 
purity  of  feeling,  and  of  a  depth  and  solemnity  unequalled  by  any  other  poetry  of  this 
class. 

In  the  Middle  Ages,  the  poetry  gave  expression  to  the  love  and  other  emotions  of  the 
Armenian  poets. 

A  new  poetry  of  the  now  Mohammedan  Persia  written  in  modern  Persian  came  into 
being  almost  simultaneously  with  the  Armenian  poetry  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

Firdusi,  Omar  Khayyam,  Sadi,  Hafiz,  with  a  splendid  retinue  of  less  famed  singers,  made 
Persian  the  language  of  verse  which,  together  with  Arabic  poetry  in  its  earlier  stages,  no  doubt 
had  some  influence  on  the  Armenian  poets  of  the  Middle  Ages ;  but  this  influence  affected 
form  rather  than  spirit  or  character. 

Armenian  mediaeval  poetry  does  not  possess  the  burning  hues  of  oriental  verse,  and  is 
186 


Its   Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval   Poetry 

perhaps  less  luxurious,  but  the  grace,  charm,  ease,  and  fancy  of  the  Armenian  lays  are  inimit- 
able, and  their  originality  and  occasional  quaintness  are  so  marked  that  one  feels  there  is  a  magic 
in  them.  These  characteristics  are  the  outcome  of  the  mutual  assimilation  of  eastern  and  western 
art,  so  that  the  poetry  of  Armenia,  like  its  language,  its  art,  its  Church,  stands  by  itself. 

In  comparing  Armenian  with  Persian  and  Arabic  poetry,  one  must  remember  that  the 
Armenians,  as  Christians,  were  not  polygamists ;  and  that,  to  them,  marriage  was  sanctified 
by  the  law  of  God  and  man.  This  is  what  the  great  Persian  poet  Sadi  says  of  women :  "  Choose 
a  fresh  wife  every  spring,  or  every  New  Year's  day,  for  the  almanac  of  last  year  is  good 
for  nothing."  It  would  have  been  impossible  for  any  Armenian  poet  to  entertain  such  an 
idea  as  that. 

Whereas  women  are  so  cheap  in  the  eyes  of  the  Persian  poet,  Armenian  girls  endowed  with 
beauty  were  considered  by  their  parents  and  the  community  very  precious  possessions,  to  be 
zealously  guarded,  as  they  were  in  constant  danger  of  attracting  the  attention  of  their  Moham- 
medan lords  and  being  forcibly  carried  off  into  harems.  This  fact  had  the  effect  of  mingling 
compassion  with  the  Armenian  poets'  admiration  of  a  girl's  beauty  and  made  them  write  more 
feelingly  of  women. 

It  must  also  be  remembered  that,  whereas  Mohammedanism  looks  upon  woman  as  a 
soulless  being,  in  the  eyes  of  a  Christian  she  possesses  a  soul  as  precious  as  that  of  a  man. 

It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  love  poems  were  written  by  the  clergy,  often  by  ecclesiastics 
of  high  position,  who,  by  the  law  of  the  Armenian  Church,  are  vowed  to  celibacy.  One  explana- 
tion of  this  is  that  they  were  born  poets,  and  only  regarded  love  as  one  among  many  feelings 
fitted  to  be  the  subject  of  verse.    Their  use  of  the  first  person  is  only  dramatic. 

There  are  also  many  folksongs  which  differ,  in  style  and  character,  from  the  love-songs 
of  poets.  The  spirit  of  these  songs  is  that  of  Armenian  pagan  poems.  The  following  is  an 
example  of  songs  of  this  class.     It  describes  the  adventure  of  a  girl. 

"  I  beheld  a  youth  to-day 
As  at  dawn  I  walked  unheeding, 

And  the  youth  stopped  on  his  way. 
Struck  my  cheek,  and  left  it  bleeding. 

Then  my  mother  questioned  me, 
'  Who  was  it  that  struck  you  i  '  saying, 

*  'Twas  a  thorn,  as  near  the  tree 
With  the  roses  I  was  pbying.' 

*  May  the  tree  turn  dry  and  sear 
Which  thy  pretty  cheek  left  bleeding  ! ' 

187  03 


Armenia 

'  Mother,  dear,  oh,  do  not  speak, 
*Twas  a  youth  that  stopped  to  kiss  it. 

*Twas  for  luck  he  kissed  my  cheek, 
If  thou  curse  him  he  will  miss  it ! '  " 

Armenian  religious  and  devotional  poetry  has  characteristics  of  its  own.  This  class  of 
literature  falls  into  two  divisions.  In  the  first  division  are  works  of  a  purely  literary  character 
written  in  old  Armenian ;  in  the  second,  works  meant  for  popular  use,  written  in  the  language 
of  the  people.  These  latter  are  written  in  a  more  familiar  style,  proverbs  and  paraphrases 
being  often  introduced,  in  a  picturesque  fashion,  which  appeals  to  the  unlearned. 

As  an  example  of  the  popular  class  of  literature  we  give  an  extract  from  a  poem  about 
Gregory  the  Illuminator,  who  was  cast  by  King  Tiridates  into  a  well  infested  with  serpents 
and  other  loathsome  creatures  : — 

"  '  Take  the  saint  and  put  him  into  the  prison  where  dragon-serpents  are  assembled.' 

They  took  the  saint  and  put  him  in  the  prison  where  the  dragon-serpents  were  assembled. 

And  the  poisonous  serpents  inclined  their  tongues  in  worship. 

And  said  :  '  Pity  us,  O  Saint  Gregory,  and  hearken  to  the  complaint  of  us,  dragon-serpents. 

It  is  many  thousands  of  years  since  we  drank  water  from  the  springs  ; 

We  have  not  drunk  water  from  the  springs,  but  only  the  blood  of  condemned  men. 

We  have  eaten  no  green  herbs,  but  only  the  flesh  of  the  condemned.' " 

The  poet  goes  on  to  tell  how  St.  Gregory  when  he  came  out  of  the  well  set  free  the 
dragon-serpents  in  answer  to  their  prayer. 

This  poem  is  very  old,  being  written  in  the  fifth  or  sixth  century  at  the  latest.  The  metre 
is  that  of  the  pagan  poets. 

We  cite  here  another  poem  of  this  class — an  allegorical  description  of  Christ  on 
the  Cross : — 

"  A  little  Bird  I  saw — a  peerless  One — 
Upon  the  four-armed  Sign,  that  peer  hath  none. 
O  Peerless  One,  who  is  like  Thee,  Thou  Peerless  One  $* 
Thou  alone. 

"  Its  silvery  wings  were  of  a  matchless  white 
More  brilliant  than  the  sun's  clear,  matchless  light. 
O  Matchless  One,  who  is  like  Thee,  Thou  Matchless  One  f 
Thou  alone. 
i88 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

"  Piteous  Its  voice — a  great,  transcendent  sigh  ; 
Mighty,  as  Gabriel's  transcendent  cry. 
Transcendent  One,  who  is  like  Thee,  Transcendent  One  S* 
Thou  alone. 

"  Within  Its  eyes,  gem-like,  unrivalled  tears ; 
Surpassing  those  the  mom  unrivalled  wears  ; 
Unrivalled  One,  who  is  like  Thee,  Unrivalled  One  S" 
Thou  alone." 

A  characteristic  species  of  Armenian  poetry  is  the  lullaby.  There  are  hundreds  of  old 
Armenian  cradle-songs  which  are  still  sung  by  mothers  to  their  infants^  and  they  are  exquisitely 
dainty  and  sweet. 

Here  are  some  stanzas  from  one  of  these  songs : — 

"  Thou  art  lovely,  feet  and  all. 
Whom  wouldst  have  to  be  thy  playmate  < 

Hush,  the  silver  moon  I'll  call — 
The  bright  star  to  be  thy  playmate. 

"  Crimson  rose  and  petals  wide. 
Thou  hast  bloomed,  our  garden's  pride. 
As  many  suns  shine  on  thy  years 
As  the  leaves  our  garden  bears. 

"  Oror,  hush,  the  deer  are  here, 
The  deer  have  come  from  the  hills  so  high. 
Have  brought  sweet  sleep  to  my  baby  dear, 
And  filled  it  in  his  deep,  deep  eye." 

There  are  series  of  Armenian  folksongs  for  every  event  in  life — birth^  marriage,  death, 
and  so  on. 

The  following  is  a  folksong  of  death,  being  the  lament  of  a  mother  over  her  dead  son  : — 

"  As  to-night  I  walked  alone 
To  the  earth  my  ear  inclining, 

From  the  ground  I  heard  a  moan, — 
My  son's  voice  I  heard  repining. 

*  Do  not  leave  me  in  the  ground. 
With  the  serpents  round  me  crawling. 


Armenia 

"  Food  in  plenty  we  have  found," 
To  their  young  ones  they  are  calling, 

"  From  his  ribs  we'll  gnaw  the  flesh, 
From  his  eyes  drink  water  fresh."  * 
All  the  night  I  found  no  rest, 
I  cried  out,  '  Give  me  a  knife, 
I  will  plunge  it  in  my  breast, 
I  will  have  no  more  of  life  ! '  " 

Yet  another  feature  of  the  literature  of  this  period  is  the  contemporary  history  in  verse. 
We  come  across  metrical  narratives  of  great  events  written  by  those  who  experienced  them. 
There  is  a  long  and  vivid  description  in  verse,  by  an  eye-witness,  of  the  siege  of  Constanti- 
nople.   The  poet  is  Abraham  Vardapet. 

There  are  also  agricultural  and  craft  songs,  which  are  sung  by  workmen  over  their  labour. 

These  songs  are  adapted  to  the  movements  necessitated  by  each  occupation. 

Another  marked  difference  between  Armenian  and  Mohammedan  literature  is  that 
Armenians  are  entirely  free  from  the  fatalism  which  is  a  distinctive  feature  of  the  Mohammedan 
view  of  life. 

Sadi  relates,  in  his  Gulistan,  the  story  of  a  fisherman  that  gives  the  Mohammedan  concep- 
tion of  Fate.  This  fisherman  had  caught  a  fish  which  his  strength  did  not  allow  him  to  drag 
to  shore.  Fearing  to  be  drawn  into  the  river  himself,  he  abandoned  his  line,  and  the  fish 
swam  away  with  the  bait  in  his  mouth.  His  companions  mocked  him,  and  he  replied : 
"  What  could  I  do  J*  This  animal  escaped  because  his  last  hour,  fixed  by  fate,  was  not  yet 
come.  Fate  governs  all,  and  the  fisherman  cannot  overcome  it  more  than  another,  nor  can 
he  catch  fish,  if  fate  is  against  him,  even  in  the  Tigris.  The  fish  itself,  even  though  dry,  would 
not  die,  if  it  were  the  will  of  fate  to  preserve  its  life."  The  poet  adds :  "  O  man  !  why 
shouldst  thou  fear  S*  If  thy  hour  is  not  come,  in  vain  would  thy  enemy  rush  against  thee  with 
his  lance  in  rest :  his  arms  and  his  feet  would  be  tied  by  fate,  and  the  arrow  would  be  turned 
away,  though  in  the  hands  of  the  most  expert  archer." 

The  spirit  of  Armenian  poetry  is  neither  despondent  nor  fatalistic.  Its  songs  are  of  dawn, 
of  spring,  of  sunrise,  of  struggle ;  not  of  sunset.  And  perhaps  this  clinging  to  hope  and  this 
desire  to  live  is  the  only  secret  of  the  survival  of  the  Armenian  nation.  Armenian  poetry  is  the 
product  of  dwellers  in  a  hill  country.  To  them  mountains,  deep  valleys,  clear  skies,  running 
brooks  are  familiar  every-day  companions. 

This  brings  us  down  to  the  Renaissance  of  Armenian  literature  which  took  place  almost 
simultaneously  in  Russia  and  Turkey,  but  the  field  of  modern  Armenian  literature  is  such  a 

190 


Its  Epics,   Folk-Songs,  and  Mediaeval  Poetry 

wide  one  that  we  cannot  attempt  an  analysis  of  it  here.  There  are,  however,  some  examples  of 
modern  Armenian  poetry  in  this  volume. 

The  occupation  of  the  Armenian  provinces  by  Russia  in  1828,  with  the  attendant  emigra- 
tion of  thousands  from  Persia  and  Turkey  into  Russian  Armenia,  strengthened  the  nation. 
National  schools  were  soon  opened,  supported  by  the  Armenians  themselves.  An  Arme- 
nian Academy  was  established  in  Moscow  in  181 5  and  a  Seminary  in  Tiflis  in  1826.  Many 
Armenians  went  to  Moscow  and  Petrograd,  and  also  to  foreign  universities,  especially  to  those 
of  Germany,  Switzerland,  and  France.  The  educational  revival  produced  a  new  era,  and  a  new 
Armenian  literature  came  into  being.  Many  Armenian  newspapers  and  reviews  were  founded 
and  published  in  different  places.  Tiflis  was  the  centre  of  the  literature  and  learning  of  Russian 
Armenia.  A  similar  revival  of  letters  occurred  in  Turkish  Armenia.  In  i860  a  national  and 
ecclesiastical  constitution  was  granted  to  the  Armenians  in  Turkey.  For  Turkish  Armenians 
the  literary  centres  were  Constantinople  and  Smyrna.  In  the  latter  city,  good  work  was  done 
in  translating  western  classics,  but  Constantinople  was  the  chief  seat  of  Armenian  culture  in 
Turkey.  Thus  Armenian  literature  became  divided  into  two  branches — Russian  Armenian  and 
Turkish  Armenian — each  of  which  has  its  own  peculiarities  of  language,  style,  and  tone.  It  was 
poetry  that  first  burst  into  bloom  and  reached  maturity  soonest.  At  first  the  motifs  of  the 
poems  were  mainly  national.  The  imagination  of  the  poets  was  kindled  by  the  past,  present, 
and  future  of  Armenia,  its  sufferings,  its  national  beauty,  its  shortcomings.  They  looked 
forward  to  a  national  regeneration.  They  were  apostles  of  light,  science,  learning ;  and 
pointed  out  new  paths  of  national  salvation.  The  result  of  all  this  was  the  production  of 
some  beautiful  national  songs.  These  songs  are  not  triumphant  anthems  like  those  of  other 
countries ;  they  are  songs  of  suffering,  but  with  a  note  of  hope.  Then  Armenian  poetry 
developed  a  truer  relation  with  what  had  been  created  in  literature  and  art,  and  the  poets 
looked  at  things  in  a  new  way,  and  assumed  new  poetical  forms.  It  combined  poetry  and 
imagination  with  passionate  feeling  for  life  and  truth.  Some  of  the  poems  of  this  period 
are  of  exquisite  workmanship,  breathing  the  very  spirit  of  the  time. 

As  we  have  said,  Armenian  poetry  of  the  nineteenth  century  is  so  full  of  merit  and  of  such 
intense  interest  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  do  it  justice  without  writing  at  great  length.  We 
have  already  exhausted  the  space  at  our  disposal,  and  hope  to  devote  a  separate  work  to  it. 

Persian  and  Arabic  poetry  are  things  of  the  past,  but  Armenian  poetry,  like  the  Armenian 
nation,  has  an  unquenchable  vitality,  ever  advancing  towards  new  horizons,  and  soaring  to 
loftier  heights. 


CHRONOLOGICAL    INDEX    TO    AUTHORS 


Moses  of  Khorene,  fifth  century —  page 

Vahagn,  King  of  Armenia  .         .         .         .       lo 

Ara  and  Semiramis  .....       23 

The  Founding  of  Van 33 

Artashes  and  Satenik 48 

Artavasd         .......       65 

Christ  and  Abganis  .....       75 

Folk  Songs— 

The  Exile's  Song i 

The  Apple  Tree      ......        3 

The  Fox,  the  Wolf,  and  the  Bear       .         .         .15 

The  Song  of  the  Stork 27 

The  Song  of  the  Partridge        ....       36 
The  Hawk  and  the  Dove  ....       63 

Charm  Verses 67 

O'er  the  Mountains  High  He  went    ...       81 

The  Fox 90 

Dance  Song  (Haberban)  .         .         .         .101 

Author  Unknown,  mediaeval — 

Yesternight  I  walked  Abroad    ....        7 

Saint  Gregory  of  Narek,  951-1009 — 

The  Christ-Child .113 

Saint  Nerses  Shnorhali,  1102-1173 — 

The  Arrival  of  the  Crusaders    ....       58 

Hovhannes  Erzingatzi,  6.  1260 — 

Like  an  Ocean  is  this  World      ....       59 

"  Frik,"  d.  1330 — 

Reproaches xv 

John  Gower,  d.  1408 — 

The  Tale  of  Rosiphelee 91 

Hovhannes  TuLKOtnuNTZi,  1450-1525— 

Concerning  Death  .         .        .         .        .         .119 


Grigoris  of  Aghtamar,  fifteenth  century — 
Concerning  the  Rosa  and  the  Nightingale 

Nahabed  Kouchak,  fifteenth  century — 
My  Heart  is  turned  into  a  Wailing  Child 
O  Night,  be  long    .... 
Birthday  Song        .... 


31 


Sayat  Nova,  1712-1795 — 

I  beheld  my  Love  this  Morning         .         .         .14 

I  have  a  Word  I  fain  would  say          ...  35 

"  Thy  Voice  is  Sweet " 74 

Without  Thee  what  are  Song  and  Dance  to  Me  S*  .  85 

Thou  art  so  Sweet 110 

Leo  Alishan,  1820-1901 — 

The  Lily  of  Shavarshan 37 

The  Nightingale  of  Avarair       ....  108 

MiKAEL  NALBANDIAN,   1829-1866 — 

Liberty 12 

MUGGURDICH  BeSHIGTASHLIAN,   1829-1868 — 

Spring 89 

Raphael  Patkanian,  1830-1892 — 

Cradle  Song .21 

Cradle  Song 41 

The  Tears  of  Araxes 69 

Raffi,  1837-1888— 

The  Parrot's  Song  ......  78 

The  Lake  of  Van 86 

Ballad 103 

The  Castle  of  Anoush      .         .         .         .         .114 

Kahekin  Srvanstian,  1840-1892 — 

Lament  over  the  Heroes  fallen  in  the  Battle  of 

Avarair 25 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


SmPAD  ShAHAZIZ,   1840-1897 —  PAGE 

The  Dream 46 

Thomas  Terzyan,  1842-1909 — 

The  Chragan  Palace 44 

Elia  Demirjibashian,  1851-1908 — 

The  Song  of  the  Vulture           ....  98 

Bedros  Toukian,  1853-1872— 

The  Little  Lake 18 

My  Death 50 

Complaints 83 

A  Day  after 84 

Love  One  Another 121 

William  Watson,  b.  1858 — 

A  Trial  of  Orthodoxy xvi 

HOVHANNES  HOVHANNESSIAN,  6.   1869 — 

Spring 20 

The  Rock 60 

Araxes  came  devouringly 77 

HOVHANNES   TOUMANIAN,  b.    1869— 

The  Crane 6a 

Earth  and  Sky 79 

Alexander  DzADOtnsiAN,  6.  1870 — 

The  Armenian  Poet's  Prayer     ....  43 


Arschag  Tchobanian,  b.  1872 —  page 

Happiness nS 

AVETIS   ISAHAKIAN,  b.    1875— 

Black  Eyes 6 

Huntsman,  that  on  the  Hills  above    .         .         .11 

Ye  Mountain  Bluebells    .....  29 

The  Sun  went  dovi^n 30 

The  Wind  is  howling  through  the  Winter  Night .  42 

Shushanik  Gotoghinian,  b.  1876 — 

The  Eagle's  Love    ......  51 

Zabelle  Essayan,  b.  1878 — 

Incense           .......  17 

C.  A.   DODOCHIAN — 

The  Wandering  Armenian  to  the  Swallow  .         .     111 

HOVHANNES  COSTANIANTZ — 

No  Bird  can  reach  the  Mountain's  Crest  .  ,  106 
Derenik  Demirjian — 

The  Eve  of  Ascension  Day  ....  73 
Haroutune  Toumanian — 

Morning         .......       32 

ViTTORiA  Aganoor  Pompilj,  d.  1910 — 

Pasqua  Armena 122 

"  lo  Vidi " .     123 


INDEX    TO    FIRST    LINES 


Above  the  waters,  like  a  hoary  giant 

Accostarsi  all'oscuro  . 

A  great  black  bird  hke  to  a  great  black  cloud 

An  eagle  sat  upon  the  felt    . 

Araxes  came  devouringly    . 

Armenian  maidens,  come  and  view 

Beloved  one,  for  thy  sweet  sake   . 

Dark  forests  clothe  the  mountain-side  . 

Day  dawned.    Bright  tongues  of  scarlet  flame 

Do  not  trust  black  eyes,  but  fear  them  . 

Farewell,  thou  Sun,  and  Thou,  O  Power  Di 

Have  you  ever  seen  that  wondrous  building 

Huntsman,  that  on  the  hills  above 

I  beheld  my  love  this  morning     . 

If  Goghtan's  bards  no  longer  crown 

I  have  a  word  I  fain  would  say    . 

I  have  loved  your  winsome  face  . 

In  many  a  distant,  unknown  land 

I  walk  by  Mother  Arax 

Like  an  ocean  is  this  world. 

My  heart  is  turned  into  a  wailing  child 

Nightingale,  oh,  leave  our  garden  . 

Night  with  her  ebon  hair  and  starry  crc 

No  bird  can  reach  the  mountain's  crest 

None  await  thy  smiling  rays 

Non  fu  di  fiele  abbeverato  s"    II  petto 

O'er  the  mountains  high  he  went. 

O  evil  man,  with  passions  fraught 

Of  Armenye,  I  rede  thus     . 

O  God  of  righteousness  and  truth 

O  God,  'tis  not  for  laurel  wreaths  I  pray 

O  little  breeze,  how  fresh  and  sweet      . 

Once  more  God  hither  moves  their  course 

O  Night,  be  long — long  as  an  endless  year 

On  the  morning  of  thy  birth 

O  swallow,  gentle  swallow 

Slumbering  darkly  yesterday 

Soft  and  low  a  voice  breathed  o'er  me  . 

Stork,  I  welcome  thy  return 

Sweet  slumber  now  creeps  o'er  thee  slow 


Author. 

HOVHANNES   HOVHANNESSIAN 
VlTTORIA  AgANOOR   PoMPILJ 

Elia  Demirjibashian 

Shushanik  Gourghinian 

hovhannes  hovhannessian 

Leo  Alishan 

Folk  Song 

Raffi 

Haroutune  Toumanian 

Avetis  Isahakian 

Bedros  Tourian 

T.  Terzyan 

Avetis  Isahakian 

Sayat  Nova 

Karekin  Srvanstian 

Sayat  Nova 

Folk  Song 

Raphael  Patkanian 

HoVHANNES  ErZINGATZI 

Nahabed  Kouchak 
Raphael  Patkanian 
Derenik  Demirjian 
H.  Costaniantz 

HovHANNES  HOVHANNESSIAN 
VlTTORIA  AgANOOR  PoMPILJ 

Folk  Song 

hovhannes  tulkourantzi 

John  Gower 

"  Frik  " 

Alexander  Dzadourian 

MuGGtnjDiCH  Beshigtashlian 

Saint  Nerses  Shnorhali 

Nahabed  Kouchak 

c.  a.  dodochian 
Bedros  TotreiAN 
S.  Shahaziz 
Folk  Song 
Raphael  Patkanian 
195 


Translated  by 

Z.   C.  BOYAJIAN 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  . 
Z.  C.  Boyajian 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  . 
Z.  C.  Boyajian 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  . 
Z.  C,  Boyajian 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  . 
Z.  C.  Boyajian 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  . 
Z.  C,  Boyajian 


Armenian  Legends  and  Poems 


Author. 
William  Watson 
hovhannes  toumanian 
Folk  Song 


The  clinging  children  at  their  mother's  knee 

The  Crane  has  lost  his  way  across  the  heaven 

The  door  of  Heaven  open  seemed 

The  fox  ran  up  into  the  mill 

The  Hawk  said  to  the  Dove,  "  My  dear  " 

The  incense  at  the  altar  slowly  burns    . 

The  lips  of  the  Christ-child  are  like  to  twin  leaves 

The  httle  fox,  the  wolf  and  bear  made  peace 

The  Rose  was  gone.    When  to  the  empty  tent 

The  Sky  bent  down  his  piercing  gaze  one  day 

The  sun  has  touched  the  mountain's  crest     . 

The  sun  went  down  behind  the  hill 

The  wind  is  howling  through  the  winter  night 

Thou  art  so  sweet  thou  wilt  not  pain    . 

Thy  voice  is  soft,  thy  speech  all  sweetness  flows 

Undying  Love,  Whose  beams  forever  glow    . 

Unutterable  silence  here  is  spread 

Weary  of  vainly  seeking  Happiness 

Whence  comest  thou,  my  moon,  gentle  and  still 

When  Death's  pale  angel  comes  to  me  . 

When  the  God  of  Liberty  .... 

Why  dost  thou  lie  in  hushed  surprise    . 

With  nuts  and  sweets  and  dainty  fare   . 

Without  thee  what  are  song  and  dance  to  me  i 

Ye  mountain  bluebells,  weep  with  me  . 

Yesternight  I  walked  abroad 

Charm  Verses Folk  Songs 


Zabelle  Essayan 

Saint  Gregory  of  Narek 

Folk  Song 

Grigoris  of  Aghtamar 

hovhannes  toumanian 

Folk  Song 

avetis  isahakian 

Sayat  Nova 

Bedros  Tourian 

Raffi 

Arschag  Tchobanian 

Leo  Alishan 

Bedros  Tourian 

MiKAEL   NaLBANDIAN 

Bedros  Tourian 
Raffi 

Sayat  Nova 
avetis  isahakian 
Author  Unknown 


Translated  by 
Z.  C.  Boyajian 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  , 
Z.  C-  Boyajian 


George  M.  Green 
Z.  C.  Boyajian 


Alice  Stone  Blackwell  . 
Z.  C.  Boyajian 


Ara  and  Semiramis  . 
Artashes  and  Satenik  . 
Artavasd   . 

Christ  and  Abgarus  . 
The  Castle  of  Anoush 
The  Founding  of  Van 
Vahagn,  King  of  Armenia 


PROSE  LEGENDS 
Moses  of  Khorene 


Raffi 
Moses  c 


Z.  C.  Boyajian 


^^fo*^ 


FOURTEEN  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 


This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below,  or ; 
on  the  date  to  which  renewed.  I 

Renewed  books  are  subject  to  immediate  recall. 


l8May55BH 


m^^''^'^'' 


f,|Nov'5BRS 


REC^D  LP 


NOV    819R8 


REC'D    MOFFITT 


JUN  1 5  1971 


-m-ti 


Wl 


/ 


YF  00001 


