UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/artpsychoanalysiOOphil 


art 

and 
PSYCHOANALYSIS 


art 


and 

PSYCHOANALYSIS 


Edited,  with  an  introduction 

by  WILLIAM  PHILLIPS 


CRITERION  BOOKS  NEW  YORK 


COPYRIGHT  ©  1957  BY  CRITERION  BOOKS,  INC. 
LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS  CATALOG  CARD  NUMBER  56-10196 


All  rights  reserved.  No  part  of  this  book  may  be 
reproduced  without  permission  of  the  publishers. 


MANUFACTURED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 
AMERICAN    BOOK-STRATFORD    PRESS,    INC.,    NEW   YORK 


Preface 


The  literature  relating  to  art  and  psychoanal- 
ysis is  enormous  and  scattered  through  countless  technical  and 
academic  journals  and  specialized  publications,  many  of  which  are 
now  unavailable.  One  of  the  main  purposes  of  this  collection  is  to 
make  accessible  in  one  volume  some  of  the  outstanding  contribu- 
tions in  this  field. 

But,  faced  with  so  many  possible  choices,  what  was  the  prin- 
ciple of  selection?  Why  this  piece,  it  might  be  asked,  and  not  that 
one?  The  selection,  like  most  others,  was  based  not  on  a  single 
but  on  many  criteria.  In  some  cases  merit  was  the  yardstick;  in 
others  historical  interest.  Some  pieces  were  chosen  as  representing 
a  special  approach;  others  as  the  work  of  an  important  figure. 
Most  of  the  contributions  are  by  practicing  analysts,  but  there  are 
also  some  by  well-known  writers.  They  fall  into  three  general 
categories:  studies  of  single  works  of  art  or  creative  artists,  theo- 
retical essays,  and  literary  pieces. 

A  number  of  papers  that  bear  on  the  subject,  such  as  Meyer 
Schapiro's  brilliant  essay  on  Leonardo,  have  not  been  included 
for  reasons  that  have  nothing  to  do  with  their  quality.  Some  papers 

v 


vi  Preface 

were  too  long,  permission  for  others  could  not  be  obtained.  Ernest 
Jones's  famous  work  on  Hamlet,  on  the  other  hand,  is  already 
available  as  a  paperback.  Almost  all  the  pieces  included  are  about 
literature,  as  the  studies  in  the  other  arts  are  much  inferior — 
perhaps  because  ideology  is  more  easily  assimilated  than  form  into 
psychoanalysis. 


A  cknowledgments 


Thanks  are  due  to  the  authors,  as  well  as  to  the 
following  publishers  and  individuals,  for  permission  to  reprint  copy- 
righted material  from  the  sources  indicated: 

American  Imago,  for  "The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen"  by  Geoffrey 
Gorer  (1941);  "Myth  and  Folk  Tale"  by  Geza  Roheim  (1941); 
"The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life"  by  Theodor  Reik  (1949); 
"Trends  in  Affectlessness"  (here  retitled  "The  Stranger")  by 
Nathan  Leites  (1947);  and  "Heinrich  von  Kleist"  by  Fritz  Wittels 
(1954) ;  all  ©  by  American  Imago. 

Duke  University  Press,  for  "The  Ghost  of  Henry  James"  by  Saul 
Rosenzweig,  a  revised  version  of  an  article  originally  published  in 
Character  and  Personality,  ©  1943  by  Duke  University  Press. 

Imago  Publishing  Co.  Ltd.,  for  "Poe  and  the  Function  of  Litera- 
ture," from  Life  and  Works  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe  by  Marie  Bona- 
parte (London  1949). 

International  Journal  of  Psycho- Analysis,  for  "Dostoevsky  and 
Parricide"  by  Sigmund  Freud  (1945),  reprinted  also  by  permission 
of  Ernst  L.  Freud;  and  "The  Death  of  Hamlet's  Father"  by  Ernest 
Jones  (1948). 

vii 


viii  Acknowledgments 

International  Universities  Press,  Inc.,  for  "The  Contribution  and 
Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis,"  from  Psychoanalytic  Explorations 
in  Art  by  Ernst  Kris,  ©  1952  by  International  Universities  Press, 
Inc.;  and  "Jonathan  Swift,"  from  Swift  and  Carroll  by  Phyllis 
Greenacre,  ©  1956  by  International  Universities  Press,  Inc. 

Julian  Press,  Inc.,  for  "The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary 
Art"  by  Franz  Alexander,  from  Explorations  in  Psychoanalysis, 
edited  by  Robert  Lindner,  ©  1953  by  Julian  Press,  Inc. 

Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc.,  for  "Life  and  Creation,"  from  Art  and 
Artist  by  Otto  Rank,  ©  1932  by  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc.;  "Freud 
and  the  Future,"  from  Essays  of  Three  Decades  by  Thomas  Mann, 
©  1933,  1937,  1947  by  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc.;  and  "Maude 
Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism,"  from  The  Armed  Vision  by 
Stanley  Edgar  Hyman,  ©  1947,  1948  by  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc. 

W.  W.  Norton  &  Co.,  Inc.,  for  "Alice  in  Wonderland,"  from  Eng- 
lish Pastoral  Poetry  by  William  Empson,  first  published  1938  by 
W.  W.  Norton  &  Co.,  Inc. 

Oxford  University  Press,  and  Edmund  Wilson,  for  "Philoctetes: 
The  Wound  and  the  Bow,"  from  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  by 
Edmund  Wilson,  ©  1929  by  Edmund  Wilson. 

Partisan  Review,  for  "The  Image  of  the  Father"  by  Simon  O. 
Lesser;  "Art  and  Anxiety"  by  Robert  Gorham  Davis  (1945),  here 
revised  and  expanded;  "Writers  and  Madness"  by  William  Barrett 
(1947);  and  "Kafka  and  the  Dream"  by  Selma  Fraiberg  (1956), 
here  somewhat  expanded;  all  ©  by  Partisan  Review. 

The  Psychoanalytic  Quarterly,  for  "Psychic  Trauma  and  Produc- 
tive Experience  in  the  Artist"  by  Henry  Lowenfeld,  ©  1941  by 
The  Psychoanalytic  Quarterly. 

Rinehart  and  Co.,  Inc.,  and  Erich  Fromm,  for  "Franz  Kafka," 
from  The  Forgotten  Language,  ©  1951  by  Erich  Fromm. 

The  Sewanee  Review,  for  "Archetype  and  Signature"  by  Leslie  A. 
Fiedler,  ©  1952  by  The  University  of  the  South. 

The  University  of  Chicago  Press,  for  "Freud — and  the  Analysis  of 
Poetry"  by  Kenneth  Burke,  from  The  American  Journal  of  Soci- 
ology, ©  1939  by  the  University  of  Chicago. 

The  Viking  Press,  for  "Art  and  Neurosis,"  from  The  Liberal 
Imagination  by  Lionel  Trilling,  ©  1945,  1947  by  Lionel  Trilling. 


Contents 


Preface  v 

Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis  xiii 

Part  One 

Sigmund  Freud 

Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  3 

Selma  Fraiberg 

Kafka  and  the  Dream  21 

Marie  Bonaparte 

Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  54 

Saul  Rosenzweig 

The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  89 

Phyllis  Greenacre 

Jonathan  Swift  112 

Erich  Fromm 

Franz  Kafka  136 

Ernest  Jones 

The  Death  of  Hamlet's  Father  146 


IX 


Contents 

Theodor  Reik 

The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  151 

Fritz  Wittels 

Heinrich  von  Kleist— Prussian 

Junker  and  Creative  Genius  165 

Part  Two 

William  Empson 

Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  185 

Geoffrey  Gorer 

The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen  218 

Simon  O.  Lesser 

The  Image  of  the  Father  226 

Nathan  Leites 

The  Stranger  247 

Part  Three 

Ernst  Kris 

The  Contribution  and 

Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  271 

Henry  Lowenfeld 
^  Psychic  Trauma  and 

Productive  Experience  in  the  Artist  292 

Otto  Rank 

Life  and  Creation  306 

Geza  Roheim 

Myth  and  Folk  Tale  333 

Franz  Alexander 

The  Psychoanalyst  Looks 

at  Contemporary  Art  346 

Part  Four 

Thomas  Mann 

Freud  and  the  Future  369 

William  Barrett  . 

Writers  and  Madness  390 

Kenneth  Burke 

Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  412 


Contents  xi 

Robert  Gorham  Davis 

Art  and  Anxiety  440  ^ 

Leslie  A.  Fiedler 

Archetype  and  Signature  454 

Stanley  Edgar  Hyman 

Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  473 

Lionel  Trilling 

Art  and  Neurosis  502  V 

Edmund  Wilson 

Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  521  v 

Index  539 


Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis 


Almost  from  the  beginning,  our  culture  has  had 
a  double  image  of  the  creative  man:  he  was  believed  to  be  ob- 
sessed, perhaps  even  mad,  yet  at  the  same  time  he  was  thought  to 
have  some  extraordinary  gift  of  insight,  some  great  wisdom  not 
shared  by  ordinary  people.  This  apparent  contradiction  has  never 
been  resolved;  sometimes  it  was  the  normality  of  the  artist  that 
was  emphasized,  while  at  other  times  his  prophetic  powers  were 
stressed,  though  usually  the  question  was  solved  by  ignoring  it. 
With  the  development  of  psychoanalysis,  the  problem  has  taken 
on  a  new  cast.  At  first,  it  was  simply  assumed  that  art  is  in  some 
manner  connected  with  neurosis,  though  there  was  disagreement 
about  whether  art  expresses  neurosis  or  the  catharsis  of  the  neuro- 
sis. More  recently,  however,  the  trend  has  been  mostly  the  other 
way,  to  dissociate  the  work  of  art  from  the  neurosis  of  the  author, 
and  to  regard  it  as  a  "normal"  achievement,  a  triumph  of  health 
over  sickness. 

This  more  wholesome  view  of  the  creative  process  is  often  put 
forward  in  the  language  of  psychoanalysis,  but  it  also  obviously 
reflects  the  need  for  personal  tranquillity  and  social  adjustment 
that  dominates  the  mood  of  the  present.  For  one  thing,  the  dis- 

xiii 


XIV  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

covery  that  neurosis  is  curable,  putting  it  within  the  domain  of 
health  and  hygiene,  was  bound  to  make  creative  aberration  less 
palatable.  Even  more  important,  the  association  of  psychological 
disorder  with  the  estrangement  of  the  modern  artist — as  in  the 
cult  of  the  unique,  from  Rimbaud  to  Dylan  Thomas — has  made 
it  difficult  to  distinguish  the  neurotic  from  the  anarchic  personality. 
Though  it  is  still  not  clear  whether  the  Bohemian  dedication  to 
depravity  simply  releases  neurosis,  or  is  tied  up  with  it,  we  think 
of  the  two  as  belonging  together.  Hence  our  feelings  about  the 
relation  of  neurosis  and  creativity  are  likely  to  be  colored  by  our 
views  on  the  social  position  of  the  artist;  and  in  a  period  of  re- 
spectability and  cultural  timidity  it  is  not  surprising  that  abnor- 
mality and  unconventionally  are  often  confused,  and  both  frowned 
upon. 

When  we  speak  of  the  artist  as  "mad"  or  "neurotic"  the  terms 
do  not  simply  refer  to  the  state  of  his  mental  health;  they  give  a 
mythic  picture  of  the  creative  man:  inspired,  rebellious,  dedicated, 
obsessive,  and  alienated,  as  well  as  neurotic;  and  they  also  suggest 
the  evil  and  irrational  underworld  of  experience  dredged  up  by 
the  modern  writer.  Thomas  Mann's  celebration,  for  example,  of  the 
role  of  disease  in  the  making  of  art  stems  from  a  sense  of  the 
moral  and  psychological  ambiguities  in  any  work  of  art  as  well 
as  in  the  life  of  the  artist,  and  from  Mann's  belief  that  the  artist 
has  been  chosen  to  enrich  the  imagination  of  the  community  though 
he  is  in  some  ways  outside  its  pale.  On  the  other  hand,  many  recent 
demands  for  normality  have  questioned  the  need  for  anything 
against  the  grain,  irresponsible,  or  offbeat  in  art.  The  fact  is  that 
the  work  of  writers  like  Gide  or  Joyce  represents  a  different  kind 
of  experience  from  that  of  the  common  run  of  fiction;  and  it  is 
this  experience,  rather  than  the  neurosis  of  the  author,  that  is  re- 
jected in  the  name  of  normality,  which  is  taken  to  be  synonymous 
with  whatever  is  conventional  and  popular. 

Perhaps  it  is  because  philistinism  has  been  associated  with 
health,  in  our  culture,  that  many  of  us  prefer  to  make  some  con- 
nection, however  loose,  between  art  and  neurosis,  though  there 
is  still  very  little  evidence  of  a  scientific  nature  to  support  such  a 
view.  It  is  true  that  most  advanced  art,  at  least  in  our  time,  seems 
to  have  thrived  in  an  atmosphere  of  abnormality,  and  that  the 


Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis  xv 

lives  of  most  creative  figures  read  like  case  histories.  But,  as  Lionel 
Trilling  has  pointed  out  in  a  remarkably  cogent  essay,  there  is  no 
reason  to  believe  that  neurosis  itself  is  the  creative  force.  There 
is  also  the  question  of  the  work:  is  it  neurotic  or  not? — and  if  not, 
what  does  it  mean  to  say  that  the  artist  is  a  neurotic?  Even  if 
neurosis  is  shown  to  have  something  to  do  with  art,  we  still  have 
to  ask  whether  all  neuroses  are  related  to  all  art  or  whether  only 
some  kinds  of  art  are  traceable  to  certain  neuroses,  and  whether 
the  neurosis  of  the  artist  produces,  conditions,  or  is  transmuted 
or  sublimated  into  art.  To  put  the  question  in  a  more  general  way, 
what  we  need  to  know  is  how  the  neurosis  of  the  artist,  which  is; 
a  form  of  disorder,  can  shape  a  work  of  art  that  has  value  and 
meaning  for  an  entire  civilization.  Thus  we  are  really  questioning 
what  was  once  assumed:  that  madness  and  wisdom  may  go  hand 
in  hand. 

One  reason  we  know  so  little  about  the  relation  of  neurosis  to 
art  is  that  we  know  so  little  about  art.  It  might  have  been  ex- 
pected that  psychoanalysis  would  have  clarified  some  of  these 
questions;  and  actually  it  has  thrown  some  light  on  one  side  of 
the  problem,  by  defining  the  neurotic  mechanism  and  by  giving 
an  exact  account  of  the  neurosis  of  many  writers,  painters,  musi- 
cians. But,  despite  the  vast  number  of  studies  on  the  subject  by 
psychoanalysts,  we  still  have  no  answer  to  some  of  the  basic  ques- 
tions. Much  of  the  writing  on  art  by  psychoanalysts  combines  bad 
taste — as  when  Death  of  a  Salesman  is  treated  as  a  classic — with 
some  contrived,  jargonized  theory.  The  approach  to  painting  and 
music,1  based  largely  on  a  "literary"  version  of  content,  has  been 
most  primitive,  and  its  value  has  been  biographical  rather  than 
aesthetic.  But  even  the  best  of  psychoanalytic  writing  in  this  vein 
suffers  from  the  lack  of  an  accepted  philosophy  of  art;  hence  it 
has  had  either  to  adopt  or  improvise  one.  Some  analysts  have 
taken  art  to  be  a  form  of  communication,  others  a  mode  of  ex- 
pression, and  the  traditional  definitions  of  meaning,  form,  content, 
and  audience  have  all  found  their  way  into  psychoanalytic  writing. 
Most  aesthetic  systems  in  the  past  have  been  no  better  than  the 
insight  that  went  into  their  formulation,  and  when  they  simply  are 
tacked  on  to  some  doctrine  in  another  field,  like  psychoanalysis, 


XVI  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  result  is  at  best  a  tour  de  force.  Even  so  brilliant  an  essay  as 
Ernest  Jones's  famous  study  of  Hamlet,  which  traces  the  Oedipal 
motives  in  the  play,  makes  the  assumption  that  works  of  art  are 
great  and  lasting  when,  like  Hamlet,  they  deal  with  primal  con- 
flicts. Such  an  assumption  is,  of  course,  too  simple  and  schematic, 
and  though  Jones's  piece  does  enlarge  our  understanding  of  the 
play,  it  is  not,  in  itself,  a  first-rate  example  of  literary  criticism  or 
of  aesthetics. 

Freud's  few  attempts  to  explain  the  nature  of  art  are  not  very 
impressive,  though,  of  course,  Freud  himself — like  most  outstand- 
ing thinkers — was  superior  not  only  to  his  followers,  but  often  to 
his  own  theories.  Perhaps  the  least  impressive  of  Freud's  observa- 
tions was  that  it  was  the  desire  for  fame,  power,  and  the  love  of 
women  that  lay  behind  the  creative  will  of  the  writer.  Nor  do  I 
find  a  satisfactory  explanation  of  the  creative  act  in  the  analogies 
to  daydreaming  and  fantasy  building  noted  by  Freud.  As  for  the 
origin  of  the  creative  gift,  Freud  insisted  on  many  occasions  that 
psychoanalysis  had  no  special  explanation  for  this  mysterious  force, 
though  the  concept  of  sublimation  would  suggest  that  all  the 
achievements  of  civilization  come  from  the  taming  of  the  id. 
Freud's  contribution  to  the  problem  of  art  lies  mainly,  I  think, 
in  the  examples  he  set  in  his  profound  essays  on  such  figures  as 
Dostoevsky  and  Leonardo,  where  he  made  a  number  of  interesting 
correlations  between  the  neurotic  pattern  of  these  artists'  lives  and 
the  content  of  their  works,  touching  on  the  meaning  of  those  corre- 
lations in  a  purely  speculative  and  tentative  manner. 

Any  total  approach  to  art  that  sees  the  creative  gift  or  process 
as  a  form  of  neurosis  is  bound  to  produce  a  lopsided  and  absurd 
theory.  If  art  is  considered  as  a  form  of  sublimation,  or  a  variety 
of  dream  or  fantasy,  or  even  as  a  therapeutic  activity,  then  we 
have  no  criteria  for  judging  it,  nor  any  way  of  distinguishing  it 
from  other  kinds  of  dream  or  fantasy,  or  therapy.  And  as  for  the 
many  ingenious  exercises,  revealing  art  to  be  oral  or  anal,  sadistic 
or  masochistic,  narcissist,  totemic,  the  best  that  can  be  said  of 
them  is  that  they  apply  equally  well  to  a  doodle,  a  Grandma  Moses, 
or  a  Jackson  Pollock,  though,  of  course,  they  cover  more  of  the 
doodle.  Nor  can  we  attribute  the  power  or  significance  of  a  work 


Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis  xvii 

of  art  to  the  neurosis  of  the  author,  for  then  we  would  have  to 
assume  that  its  meaning  lay  wholly  in  its  psychological  content, 
which  corresponded  not  only  to  the  neuroses  of  the  author,  but 
to  those  of  the  audience  as  well.  Such  a  novel  as  The  Possessed 
would  have  to  be  read  merely  as  a  story  of  the  criminal  mind,  and 
we  could  not  account  for  its  stature  as  a  political  novel. 

It  seems  meaningless  to  speak  of  neurotic  art,  except  in  refer- 
ring to  the  exercises  of  mental  patients,  which  might  yield  some- 
thing neurotic — or  psychotic  2 — but  not  art.  On  the  other  hand, 
it  is  equally  meaningless  to  speak  of  a  healthy  art  or  of  the  creative 
act  as  a  triumph  of  health  over  illness,  since  the  term  healthy  can 
only  be  pejorative:  it  does  not  describe  a  specific  form  or  content. 
If  all  we  mean  by  a  triumph  of  such  health  is  that  instead  of  col- 
lapsing a  writer  produced  a  poem  or  story,  then  this  is  only  an- 
other way  of  saying  that  his  neurosis  did  not  completely  paralyze 
him.  To  characterize,  for  example,  Rilke's  spurts  of  productivity, 
in  between  long  fallow  periods,  as  signs  of  health  is  simply  to 
juggle  the  word  so  as  to  define  writing  as  healthy.  One  might  just 
as  well  call  it  neurotic,  since  the  process  of  composition  was 
obsessive  and  dreamlike.  Certainly  the  creative  act  often  resembles 
compulsive  fits  and  states  of  hallucination,  and  all  we  gain  by 
calling  it  healthy  rather  than  neurotic  is  the  reassurance  of  know- 
ing that  we  are  not  reveling  in  disease. 

In  what  sense,  then,  does  neurosis  have  something  to  do  with 
art?  To  begin  with,  there  is  the  fact  that  many,  if  not  most,  writers, 
painters,  and  musicians  in  the  modern  period  have  been  neurotic. 
It  is  true,  of  course,  that  people  who  are  not  creative  may  also  be 
neurotic;  hence  the  popular  belief  that  the  connection  between  art 
and  neurosis  has  been  much  exaggerated.  Perhaps  the  only  way 
to  settle  this  question  in  a  seemingly  scientific  way  would  be  to 
tabulate  neuroses  to  determine  whether  creative  people  suffer  more 
than  others,  and  whether  their  neuroses  are  different  in  kind  or 
degree.  In  a  time  when  every  conceivable  question  has  become 
the  subject  of  a  poll,  it  is  surprising  that  no  statistical  study  of 
neurosis  ever  has  been  attempted.  But  even  if  such  a  study  showed, 
as  I  suspect  it  would,  that  creative  people  are  distinguished  not  by 
their  neurosis  but  by  their  creations,  it  still  might  be  true  that 
neurosis,  though  not  sufficient  for  the  production  of  art,  may  be 


XVU1  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

necessary  for  it.  Recently  a  study  of  a  German  writer  and  thinker 
appeared  under  the  title,  The  Mind  of  a  Genius.  Though  it  was 
obviously  not  its  intent,  what  struck  one  most  about  the  book  was 
the  fact  that  the  subject's  genius  lay  not  in  his  achievement  but 
in  his  personality  and  intellectual  habits,  which  combined  boldness 
and  originality  with  eccentricity.  Somewhere  in  his  make-up  was 
an  essential  flaw,  perhaps  in  his  intelligence,  but  he  had  what 
might  be  called  a  neurotic  predisposition  toward  ideas. 

Strictly  speaking,  a  neurosis  is  an  insoluble  conflict  within  the 
unconscious  that  may  lead  to  aberration  in  one's  behavior  or  state 
of  mind.  In  this  technical  sense,  neurosis  would  be  pertinent  to  art 
only  if  we  thought  of  art  itself  as  an  aberration  or  sublimation. 
But  using  the  term  more  loosely,  in  neurosis,  and  psychosis,  there 
is  often  a  distortion  of  experience,  so  that  certain  human  events 
and  relations  are  given  an  undue — sometimes  obsessive — empha- 
sis. In  someone  who  is  not  creative,  a  distorted  view  of  reality  is 
part  of  his  illness  and  inability  to  adjust,  and  may  be  of  no  intel- 
lectual interest:  indeed,  the  paranoia  of  a  trivial  mind  is  incredibly 
boring.  In  someone  like  Kafka,  however,  the  paranoid  twist  in 
both  the  life  and  the  writing  was  coupled  with  a  gift  of  a  high 
order  and  a  mind  capable  of  original  and  striking  observations. 
The  same  was  true  in  D.  H.  Lawrence,  whose  sexual  dreams 
would  have  had  only  a  clinical  interest  without  his  intellectual 
powers. 

Now  much  modern  writing  is  centered  in  some  obsessive  theme 
or  some  biased  image  of  human  affairs,  growing  out  of  the  fixa- 
tions of  the  author.  Take  even  so  constructed  a  work  as  The 
Waste  Land,  whose  meanings  would  seem  to  be  mainly  cultural 
and  religious.  But  what  Eliot  is  concerned  with,  in  our  culture  and 
religion  as  well  as  in  our  personal  lives,  is  the  breakdown  of 
identity,  and  the  image  of  breakdown  is  provided  by  the  sexual 
ambiguity  of  Tiresias,3  which  I  take  to  be  the  psychological  core 
of  the  poem.  The  homosexual  theme  crops  up  constantly,  usually 
in  an  explicit  way,  but  I  think  it  is  also  expressed  symbolically  in 
the  perversion  of  feelings  and  the  spiritual  impotence  running 
through  The  Waste  Land.  One  would  have  to  know  more  about 
Eliot's  private  preoccupations  to  speculate  further  about  the  effect 
of  his  neurosis  on  his  entire  vision,  but  I  think  it  is  reasonable  to 


Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis  xix 

assume  that  this  vision  reflects  the  more  personal  elements  in  his 
writing. 

This  is  not  to  say  that  The  Waste  Land  is  a  neurotic  poem,  any 
more  than,  say,  Gulliver's  Travels  or  even  The  Trial  are  neurotic 
works,  though  Swift  and  Kafka  were  known  to  be  mentally  dis- 
turbed to  the  point  of  partial  breakdown  and  inability  to  function 
in  crucial  areas  of  their  lives.  What  then  does  it  mean  to  say  that 
Swift's  or  Kafka's  writings  contained  some  central  distortion  of 
experience  traceable  to  the  neuroses  of  the  authors?  The  answer, 
I  think,  is  that  their  neurotic  impressions  of  the  world  coincided 
with  impressions  that  were  not  neurotic  and  served  to  organize 
and  energize  the  latter.  In  the  case  of  Kafka,  the  paranoia,  for 
example,  that  colored  his  personal  and  sexual  relations  became 
in  his  fiction  a  kind  of  psychological  focus  for  a  world  in  which 
the  characters  are  the  victims  of  organized  ignorance  and  au- 
thority; and  the  living  Kafka's  search  for  his  psychic  identity  be- 
comes in  his  writing  a  search  for  a  religious  and  metaphysical 
identity.  The  work  of  neurotic  writers  can  be  characterized  as 
neurotic  only  by  reducing  its  total  meaning  to  its  seemingly  neu- 
rotic components — which,  in  turn,  are  assumed  to  be  identical  with 
the  neurosis  of  the  author.  Thus  Kafka's  novels  can  be  considered 
neurotic  only  if  we  interpret  them,  as  some  analysts  and  critics 
actually  have  done,  as  fictionalized  projections  of  Kafka's  own 
derangements. 

Now  we  come  to  another  paradox:  for  the  unique  combination 
of  neurotic  experience  with  some  apparently  objective  or  plausible 
view  of  the  world,  such  as  we  find  in  writers  like  Kafka  or  Eliot, 
seems  to  be  characteristic  of  much  modern  literature.  Indeed,  it 
is  this  combination  that  we  designate  as  the  modern  experience, 
and  this  experience,  though  seemingly  shared  by  a  sufficient  num- 
ber of  readers  and  writers  to  make  up  a  tradition,  has  at  the  same 
time  certain  affinities  with  neurotic  experience.  Such  themes  as 
loneliness,  self-doubt,  hypersensitivity,  loss  of  identity,  estrange- 
ment from  the  community — all  have  their  counterparts  among  the 
common  neuroses;  and  the  two  modes  of  experience,  normal  and 
abnormal,  often  have  been  joined  in  such  a  way  that  it  becomes 
meaningless  to  distinguish  between  them.  How  can  we  set  Swift's 


XX  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

neurotic  misanthropy  apart  from  the  powerful  satire  of  his  writ- 
ings, which,  ironically  enough,  are  assigned  to  school  children  for 
didactic  as  well  as  literary  reasons?  If  Gide's  homosexuality  was  a 
"sickness,"  what  shall  we  call  the  moral  implications  of  his  concern 
with  the  truth  of  one's  own  being?  Is  Death  in  Venice  a  study  of 
degeneration  or  a  parable  of  a  modern  writer?  In  each  case  I 
suppose  we  would  have  to  say  the  content  was  both  normal  and 
abnormal,  but  that  is  the  same  as  saying  it  is  neither;  or  perhaps, 
to  put  it  more  precisely,  there  has  been  in  each  case  a  conjunction 
of  neurotic  experience  with  experience  that  we  assume  to  be 
normal — by  which  we  apparently  mean  an  experience  shared  by 
a  sufficient  number  of  cultivated  people  to  make  it  seem  objective, 
general,  and  typical. 

If  some  such  combination  of  the  objective  and  neurotic  is  char- 
acteristic of  modern  writing,  we  can  only  speculate  about  the  way 
they  have  been  brought  together.  It  has  been  suggested  at  various 
times,  particularly  when  our  political  morale  has  been  low,  that 
our  civilization  is  neurotic;  this  would,  of  course,  make  it  unnec- 
essary to  explain  any  single  neurotic  strain  in  our  art  or  culture. 
I  suspect  that  describing  an  entire  culture  as  neurotic  is  nothing 
more  than  a  juggling  of  terms  to  make  all  art — what  about  our 
philosophy  and  our  science? — neurotic  by  definition.  If  our  civili- 
zation is  neurotic,  then  everything  and  everyone  is  neurotic,  and 
we  have  no  way  of  judging  it  or  knowing  whether  a  re-creation  of 
it  is  distorted  or  not.  The  collectivization  of  neurosis  transforms 
the  neurotic  artist  into  a  psychological  conformist. 

One  simple  explanation  of  the  way  neuroses  legitimately  find 
their  way  into  any  of  the  arts  would  be  that  the  writer's  world 
has  been  created  mainly  by  his  intelligence  acting  on  what  he  has 
inherited  from  his  culture,  and  that  his  neuroses  are  then  brought 
into  play  as  he  personalizes  his  experience.  Another  might  be  that 
only  writers  endowed  with  certain  kinds  of  neuroses,  along  with 
their  imaginative  gifts,  can  thrive,  in  the  Darwinian  sense,  at  any 
given  time.  Someone  like  Hemingway,  who  has  put  his  adolescent 
ideas  to  literary  use,  might  not  have  been  so  successful  in  a  classi- 
cal period  that  put  a  premium  on  intellectual  order  and  maturity. 
Or,  perhaps,  a  process  of  natural  selection  takes  place  even  earlier, 
before  creation  begins,  and  only  certain  kinds  of  neurotics  are 


Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis  xxi 

able  to  make  the  break  with  the  community  necessary  to  enter 
the  unstable  world  of  the  arts.  Surely,  there  must  be  some  sig- 
nificance in  the  large  number  of  homosexuals  peopling  the  intel- 
lectual and  artistic  professions,  especially  the  dance  and  the  thea- 
ter, today.  We  know  that  the  faculty  we  call  talent  is  not  sufficient 
to  produce  "art":  thousands  of  people  have  enough  verbal  and 
narrative  skill  to  write  and  even  to  find  a  market.  Our  idea  of  art 
embraces,  in  addition  to  control  of  the  medium,  a  profound  and 
arresting  sense  of  the  world,  and  it  is  conceivable  that  this  power, 
though  mainly  intellectual,  is  enhanced  by  a  disposition,  which  we 
would  call  neurotic,  to  reject  conventional  attitudes. 

The  question  remains  as  to  how  a  view  of  the  world  that  has 
been  warped,  if  only  partially,  by  neurosis  can  be  said  to  be  truth- 
ful, objective,  or  morally  stimulating.  The  question  is  bound  up 
with  many  philosophical  considerations,  including  the  very  nature 
of  art  and  truth,  that  are  themselves  in  dispute.  But  this  much 
can  be  said:  the  idea  that  art  is  the  dispenser  of  moral  and  philo- 
sophical truths  is  only  a  myth,  though  a  prevailing  one  in  our 
culture.  Like  most  other  myths,  this  one  has  great  suggestive 
power,  linking  art  to  other  pursuits  that  enlarge  our  vision  and 
understanding,  but  it  cannot  be  applied  literally  without  falling 
into  didacticism. 

From  the  time  of  Plato  and  Aristotle  there  has  been  an  almost 
constant  pressure,  from  many  different  sources,  to  enlist  the  arts 
in  the  service  of  some  higher  aim  or  some  larger  truth.  Rarely  and 
only  for  short  spells  was  it  permissible  for  a  novel,  say,  or  a  paint- 
ing to  steer  clear  of  the  claims  of  morality,  politics,  or  religion; 
usually  it  was  considered  frivolous  and  irresponsible  to  think  of  the 
arts  in  their  own  terms.  At  first  there  was  the  messianism  of  Chris- 
tianity, then  the  Protestant  ethic,  and  more  recently  the  growth  of 
utilitarian  ideals,  the  development  of  a  social  conscience,  and  the 
confusion  of  art  with  education  in  the  spread  of  middle  and  high 
culture — all  these  forces  have  conspired  to  get  us  to  believe  that 
art  is  supposed  to  make  us  better  and  wiser.  There  may  be  some 
ambiguity  about  whether  art  is  by  nature  concerned  with  truth  and 
morality  or  whether  that  is  its  ideal  purpose  towards  which  it 
must  strive  at  all  times.  In  either  case  the  effect  is  the  same:  art 


XX11  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

has  become  an  easy  prey  in  our  culture  to  all  kinds  of  theories  and 
causes  that  claim  to  have  discovered  some  medical,  moral,  or 
historical  truth. 

Now  part  of  the  difficulty  obviously  comes  from  the  fact  that 
none  of  the  arts  is  self-contained.  Despite  the  efforts  of  many  for- 
malist critics  to  define  a  work  of  art  as  the  sum  of  its  textual  or 
plastic  qualities  and  to  judge  it  mostly  in  technical  terms,  the  fact 
is  that  art  has  always  absorbed  the  moods  and  currents  of  the 
civilization  that  produced  it.  And  though  I  do  not  want  to  go  into 
esthetics  at  this  point,  I  think  it  can  be  said  that  we  regard  a  work 
of  art  as  good  or  bad  because  of  the  way  its  formal  qualities  are 
combined  with  what  we  roughly  call  its  vision,  or  its  values,  or  its 
range  of  consciousness.  But  this  is  not  at  all  the  same  thing  as 
saying  that  literature,  to  take  the  art  most  filled  with  content,  has 
a  moral  purpose,  a  position  which  has  been  quite  fashionable  ever 
since  the  idea  of  political  responsibility  was  abandoned,  or  that  it 
reflects  or  asserts  something  known  as  "truth,"  a  point  of  view 
that  has  lately  been  gaming  ground.  Of  course  the  notion  of  truth 
is.an  old  naturalist  slogan,  but  all  it  meant  in  that  context  was  to 
promote  the  kind  of  fiction  that  represented  the  texture  of  average, 
daily  plebeian  existence,  and  insofar  as  naturalism  contained  any 
idea  of  truth  or  reality,  it  was  that  life  is  grimy  and  frustrated  anf* 

full  Of  SOCial  injustice.  This  was  Simply  a  literary  mrtvpmpnt  riHing 

the  tail  of  a  social  movement. 

The  more  recent  turn  toward  the  concept  of  truth  in  art  is 
something  else;  it  is  actually  a  turn- against  the  idea  of  alienation, 
dissidence,  and  rebellion.  For  it  ignores  the  question  of  values  and 
tends  to  minimize  the  attitudes  of  commitment  to  new  forces 
and  rebellion  against  old  ones  that  lie  behind  fresh  creative  move- 
ments and  the  audiences  that  support  them.  It  seems  meaningless 
to  insist  that  a  work  of  art  conveys  some  lasting  human  truth: 
what  is  the  "universal"  truth  in  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a 
Young  Man  or  Picasso's  Three  Musicians  or  one  of  Schoenberg's 
compositions?  (Incidentally,  the  word  "truth"  is  often  only  a  syno- 
nym for  verisimilitude  or  for  insight  into  human  behavior.)  Aside 
from  the  mastery  of  the  medium,  we  have,  in  modern  art  at  least, 
not  a  permanent  truth  but  a  different  accent  or  points  of  view  that 
at  best  are  true  only  for  a  small  number  of  people  and  perhaps 


Introduction:  Art  and  Neurosis  xxiii 

only  for  a  limited  span.  In  our  time  many  innovations  have  been 
carried  by  an  avant  garde  concerned  not  with  the  truth  but  with 
some  new,  irrevgient,  often  shocking  stand  against  prevailing 
moods  and  opinions.  And  perhaps  the  decline  of  the  avant  garde 
has  something  to  do  with  the  high  regard  these  days,  not  only  for 
the  notion  of  truth,  but  also  for  that  of  normality  and  respecta- 
bility in  the  arts. 

Just  as  other  periods  sometimes  regarded  the  imagination  as  a 
wild,  demonic  force  we  now  like  to  think  of  it  as  quite  tame  and 
orderly;  and  we  tend  to  associate  abnormality  with  literary  pos- 
tures and  false  ideas.  But  let  us  not  be  fooled  into  thinking  these 
views  are  objective  or  that  they  help  clarify  the  relations  between 
art,  truth,  and  morality.  They  are  merely  symptoms  of  the  times; 
and  their  literary  meaning  lies  mainly  in  the  fact  that  they  serve 
to  promote  one  creative  strain  rather  than  another.  Thus  in  recent 
years  there  has  been  a  growing  tendency  to  tear  down  the  more 
obviously  neurotic  and  alienated  writers,  the  extremists,  like  Kafka, 
Proust,  Joyce,  even  Dostoevsky,  and  to  elevate  such  figures  as 
Dickens,  George  Eliot,  and  Trollope  who  seemingly  stand  for  a 
more  orderly  and  "wholesome"  kind  of  experienceJNo  doubt  the 
tension  between  these  two  traditions  has  played  a  large  part  in 
the  literary  life  of  the  past  century,  and  we  have  tended  to  asso- 
ciate greater  abnormality  with  those  whom  Van  Wyck  Brooks 
once  called  "coterie"  writers,  largely  as  a  symbol  of  a  more  radical 
break  with  existing  norms.  As  Gide,  who  favored  the  wilder  talents, 
put  it:  "There  do  trsist  gpfmisf s;  Victor  Hugo  for  example,  sane 
and  whole.  Their  perfect  spiritual  poise  precludes  the  possibility 
of  any  fresh  problem.  Rousseau  without  the  leaven  of  madness, 
would,  I  am  sure,  be  no  better  than  an  undigested  Cicero.  .  .  . 
The  individual  who  is  abnormal  refuses  to  submit  to  laws  already 
established."  At  the  same  time,  we  should  note  that  the  cleavage 
is  not  absolute.  Someone  like  Mann,  for  example,  was  torn  be- 
tween the  two  traditions;  and  it  is  amusing  to  watch  the  efforts 
today  to  transform  Whitman  into  a  man  of  the  main  stream. 

If,  however,  we  investigate  the  life  and  work  of  the  individual 
writer,  the  distinction  between  the  normal  and  the  abnormal  in 
literature  turns  out  to  be  largely  programmatic  rather  than  scien- 
tific. Henry  James  or  T.  S.  Eliot,  for  example,  who  are  usually 


XXIV  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

assumed  to  be  on  the  side  of  order  and  classicism,  may  be  just  as 
neurotic — in  their  work  as  well  as  in  their  private  lives — as  Joyce 
or  Kafka;  and  as  for  the  question  of  truth,  I  see  no  way  of 
deciding  which  one  of  them  is  closer  to  the  "truth"  in  his  writing. 
The  national  and  personal  ambiguities  in  the  work  of  James,  which 
were  bound  up  in  some  way  with  the  ambiguities  of  his  own  life, 
are  just  as  true  as,  say,  Joyce's  rejection,  in  the  name  of  the  un- 
compromising artist,  of  "my  home,  my  fatherland,  or  my  church," 
which  was  also  tied  up  with  some  neurotic  need  to  dissociate  him- 
self from  the  conventional  world. 

The  opposition  between  "truth"  and  "neurosis"  is  actually  a 
clash  of  two  myths,  the  myth  of  the  artist  as  philosopher  and 
moralist  and  the  myth  of  the  messianic  madman.  It  is  the  tradi- 
tional split,  celebrated  by  Nietzsche,  between  the  Apollonian  and 
Dionysian  view  of  art:  between  Apollo,  the  god  of  light,  poetry, 
and  prophecy,  who  stood  for  self-control,  tranquillity,  and  radi- 
ance, and  Dionysius,  who  represented  frenzy,  intoxication,  and 
mystery,  and  brought  art  to  the  edge  of  barbarism  and  pathology. 
In  our  time,  however,  the  distinction  between  the  two  is  slowly 
disappearing,  and — who  knows? — maybe  some  day  the  neurotic 
artist  will  become  a  pillar  of  society. 

William  Phillips 


1  Most  of  the  examples  I  am  using  here  are  drawn  from  literature,  because 
the  formal  content  of  painting  and  music  has  a  much  more  complex  and 
less  obvious  connection  with  psychological  motives,  and  these  media  require 
special  analysis.  I  do  believe,  however,  that  all  of  the  arts,  and  creative 
thinking  as  well,  have  the  same  basic  relation  to  neurosis. 

2  I  have  been  using  mainly  the  more  common  and  less  extreme  term 
"neurotic,"  but  much  of  what  I  have  been  saying  could  apply  to  psychosis 
or  psychotic  tendencies. 

3  Despite  Eliot's  own  note  on  the  importance  of  Tiresias  in  the  scheme  of 
The  Waste  Land,  most  commentators  have  not  given  him  more  weight  than 
any  other  element  in  the  poem,  perhaps  because  their  methods  precluded  a 
psychological  approach. 


Part  One 


Sigmund  Freud 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide 


Four  facets  may  be  distinguished  in  the  rich 
personality  of  Dostoevsky:  the  creative  artist,  the  neurotic,  the 
moralist,  and  the  sinner.  How  is  one  to  find  one's  way  in  this 
bewildering  complexity? 

The  creative  artist  is  the  least  doubtful;  Dostoevsky 's  place  is  not 
far  behind  Shakespeare.  The  Brothers  Karamazov  is  the  most  mag- 
nificent novel  ever  written;  the  episode  of  the  Grand  Inquisitor, 
one  of  the  peaks  in  the  literature  of  the  world,  can  hardly  be  over- 
praised. Unfortunately,  before  the  problem  of  the  creative  artist, 
analysis  must  lay  down  its  arms. 

The  moralist  in  Dostoevsky  is  the  most  readily  assailable.  If  we 
try  to  rank  him  high  as  a  moralist  on  the  plea  that  only  a  man  who 
has  gone  through  the  depths  of  sin  can  reach  the  highest  heights  of 
morality,  we  are  neglecting  one  consideration.  A  moral  man  is  one 
who  reacts  to  the  temptation  he  feels  in  his  heart  without  yielding 
to  it.  The  man  who  alternately  sins,  and  in  his  remorse  makes  high 
moral  demands,  lays  himself  open  to  the  reproach  that  he  has  made 
things  too  easy  for  himself.  He  has  not  achieved  the  most  important 
thing  in  morality,  renunciation,  for  the  moral  conduct  of  life  is  a 

3 


4  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

practical  human  interest.  He  reminds  one  of  the  barbarians  of  the 
great  migrations,  who  murder  and  do  penance  therefor,  where 
penitence  becomes  a  technique  to  enable  murder  to  be  done.  Ivan 
the  Terrible  behaved  in  exactly  this  way — in  fact,  this  compromise 
with  morality  is  a  characteristic  Russian  trait.  Nor  was  the  ultimate 
result  of  Dostoevsky's  moral  struggles  anything  very  glorious.  After 
the  most  violent  battles  to  reconcile  the  impulsive  claims  of  the 
individual  with  the  demands  of  the  community,  he  ended  up,  retro- 
grade fashion,  with  submission  both  to  the  temporal  and  the  spir- 
itual authorities,  with  veneration  for  the  Tsar  and  the  God  of  the 
Christians,  and  a  narrow  Russian  nationalism,  a  position  which 
lesser  minds  have  reached  with  less  effort.  This  is  the  weak  point 
of  the  great  personality.  Dostoevsky  threw  away  the  chance  of 
becoming  a  teacher  and  liberator  of  humanity;  instead,  he  ap- 
pointed himself  its  gaoler.  The  future  of  civilization  will  have  little 
to  thank  him  for.  It  is  probable  that  he  was  condemned  to  such 
frustration  by  his  neurosis.  The  greatness  of  his  intellect  and  the 
strength  of  his  love  for  humanity  should  have  opened  to  him  an- 
other, apostolic,  way  of  life. 

To  treat  Dostoevsky  as  a  sinner  and  a  criminal  rouses  violent 
resistance  which  need  not  be  based  on  the  philistine  assessment  of 
the  criminal.  The  real  motive  soon  becomes  apparent:  two  traits 
are  important  in  the  criminal,  boundless  egoism  and  a  strong  de- 
structive tendency,  both  in  conjunction;  and  the  conditions  for 
their  expression  is  the  absence  of  love,  the  lack  of  an  affective 
valuation  of  (human)  objects.  One  immediately  recalls  the  con- 
trast presented  by  Dostoevsky,  his  great  need  of  love  and  his 
enormous  capacity  for  love,  which  expressed  itself  in  manifesta- 
tions of  superhuman  goodness,  and  enabled  him  to  love  and  help 
where  he  was  justified  in  hatred  and  revenge — for  example,  in  his 
relations  with  his  first  wife  and  her  lover.  That  being  so,  we  have 
to  ask  whence  comes  the  temptation  to  reckon  Dostoevsky  among 
the  criminals.  The  answer  is  that  it  comes  from  his  choice  of  ma- 
terial, which  singles  out  from  all  others  violent,  murderous,  and 
egoistic  characters,  which  points  to  the  existence  of  similar  tend- 
encies in  his  own  soul,  and  also  from  certain  facts  in  his  life,  like 
his  passion  for  gambling,  and  perhaps  the  sexual  abuse  of  a  young 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  5 

girl  (A  Confession1).  The  contradiction  is  resolved  by  the  per- 
ception that  Dostoevsky's  very  strong  destructive  impulse,  which 
might  easily  have  made  him  a  criminal,  was  in  his  life  directed 
mainly  against  his  own  person  (inward  instead  of  outward),  and 
thus  found  expression  in  masochism  and  the  sense  of  guilt.  His 
personality,  moreover,  contains  sadistic  characteristics  in  plenty, 
which  are  expressed  in  his  irritability,  his  love  of  tormenting,  and 
his  intolerance  even  toward  persons  he  loved,  and  which  appear 
also  in  the  way  in  which,  as  an  author,  he  treats  his  readers.  That 
is,  in  littie  things  he  was  a  sadist  to  others,  in  bigger  things  a 
sadist  to  himself,  that  is,  a  masochist,  who  is  the  mildest,  kindliest, 
most  helpful  human  being  possible. 

We  have  explored  three  factors  in  Dostoevsky's  complex  per- 
sonality, one  quantitative  and  two  qualitative:  his  extraordinary 
degree  of  affectivity,  the  perverse  impulsive  structure  which  in- 
evitably marked  him  out  as  a  sado-masochist  or  a  criminal,  and 
his  unanalyzable  artistic  endowment.  This  combination  might  very 
well  exist  without  neurosis;  in  fact,  complete  masochists  are  never 
neurotic.  But,  according  to  the  balance  of  forces  between  the  im- 
pulse claims  and  the  inhibitions  opposing  them  (plus  the  available 
methods  of  sublimation),  Dostoevsky  would  still  have  to  be  clas- 
sified as  a  so-called  "impulsive  character."  But  the  position  is 
obscured  by  the  presence  of  the  neurosis,  which  as  I  have  already 
said,  is  not  in  the  circumstances  indispensable,  but  which  comes 
into  being  all  the  more  readily,  the  richer  the  complexity  which 
has  to  be  controlled  by  the  ego.  For  the  neurosis  is  only  a  sign 
that  the  ego  has  not  succeeded  in  making  a  synthesis,  that  it  has 
forfeited  its  harmony  in  making  the  attempt. 

How  then  does  the  neurosis  in  the  strict  sense  show  itself?  Dos- 
toevsky called  himself  an  epileptic  and  was  accepted  as  such  by 
other  people,  on  the  strength  of  his  serious  attacks,  which  were 
accompanied  by  loss  of  consciousness,  muscular  convulsions,  and 
subsequent  depression.  Now  it  is  highly  probable  that  this  so-called 
epilepsy  was  only  a  symptom  of  his  neurosis,  and  must,  accord- 
ingly, be  classified  as  hystero-epilepsy,  that  is,  as  serious  hysteria. 
We  cannot  be  completely  certain  on  this  point  for  two  reasons, 
first,  because  the  medical  data  on  Dostoevsky's  "epilepsy"  are  de- 


6  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

fective  and  untrustworthy,  and  secondly,  because  our  understand- 
ing of  morbid  conditions  combined  with  epileptiform  attacks  is 
imperfect. 

To  take  the  second  point  first.  It  is  unnecessary  to  reproduce 
here  the  entire  pathology  of  epilepsy;  it  would  serve  no  useful 
purpose.  But  this  may  be  said.  The  old  morbus  sacer  is  still  in 
evidence  as  an  ostensible  clinical  entity,  the  mysterious  disease 
with  its  incalculable,  apparently  unprovoked  convulsive  seizures, 
its  changing  of  the  character  into  irritability  and  aggressiveness, 
and  the  progressive  decline  of  all  the  mental  faculties.  But  in  the 
last  resort  this  picture  flickers  and  becomes  blurred.  The  seizures, 
the  onset  of  which  is  savage,  accompanied  by  biting  of  the  tongue 
and  incontinence  of  urine,  working  up  to  the  dangerous  status  epi- 
lepticus,  may,  however,  be  reduced  to  brief  periods  of  absence, 
mere  transient  loss  of  consciousness,  and  may  be  replaced  by  short 
periods  in  which  the  patient,  under  the  control  of  the  unconscious, 
does  something  foreign  to  his  character.  Although  otherwise  con- 
ditioned by  purely  physical  causes  in  a  way  we  do  not  understand, 
the  first  appearance  of  the  attacks  may  be  due  to  some  purely 
psychical  influence  (fright),  or,  further,  they  may  react  to  psychic 
stimuli.  However  characteristic  intellectual  impairment  may  be  of 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  cases,  at  least  one  case  is  known  in 
which  the  affliction  did  not  interfere  with  the  functioning  of  the 
highest  intellectual  faculties  (Helmholtz).  (Other  cases  of  which 
the  same  fact  is  alleged  are  either  uncertain  or  open  to  the  same 
objections  as  that  of  Dostoevsky  himself.)  Patients  who  are  vic- 
tims of  epilepsy  may  give  an  impression  of  dullness  and  arrested 
development,  just  as  the  disease  is  frequently  accompanied  by  the 
most  palpable  idiocy  and  the  most  serious  mental  defects,  even 
although  these  are  not  a  necessary  element  of  the  clinical  picture. 
These  seizures,  however,  with  all  their  variations,  also  occur  in 
persons  who  show  complete  mental  development,  and  who,  previ- 
ous to  their  onset,  possess  an  excessive,  generally  imperfectly  con- 
trolled affectivity.  It  is  no  wonder  in  these  circumstances  that  it 
has  been  found  impossible  to  determine  a  single  clinical  entity, 
"epilepsy."  The  similarity  of  the  external  symptoms  seems  to  de- 
mand a  functional  conception,  as  if  the  mechanism  of  the  abnormal 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  7 

impulsive  discharge  were  organically  prepared  in  advance,  to  be 
called  upon  in  quite  different  conditions,  both  during  disturbances 
of  the  cerebral  activity  due  to  serious  histolytic  and  toxic  affec- 
tions, and  also  in  case  of  inadequate  control  of  the  psychic  econ- 
omy, the  action  of  the  energy  working  in  the  soul  in  a  crisis.  But 
behind  the  division  we  glimpse  the  identity  of  the  fundamental 
mechanism  of  the  impulsive  outlet.  The  same  thing  must  to  some 
extent  apply  to  sexual  processes:  the  earliest  doctors  called  the 
coitus  a  little  epilepsy,  that  is,  they  recognized  in  the  sexual  act 
a  mitigation  and  adaptation  of  the  epileptic  irritation  outlet. 

The  "epileptic  reaction,"  as  this  common  element  may  be  called, 
without  doubt  also  places  itself  at  the  disposal  of  the  neurosis,  the 
essence  of  which  is  to  get  rid,  by  somatic  means,  of  masses  of 
stimuli  which  it  cannot  deal  with  psychically.  The  epileptic  seizure 
is  thus  a  symptom  of  hysteria;  and  is  adapted  and  modified  by  it, 
as  is  also  done  by  the  normal  sexual  discharge.  It  is,  therefore, 
quite  right  to  distinguish  between  organic  and  "affective"  epilepsy. 
The  practical  significance  of  this  is  that  the  person  who  suffers 
from  the  one  kind  is  mentally  disordered,  and  the  person  who 
suffers  from  the  other,  a  neurotic.  In  the  first  case,  the  psychic  life 
is  subject  to  an  alien  disturbance  from  without;  in  the  second,  the 
disturbance  is  an  expression  of  the  psychic  life  itself. 

It  is  extremely  probable  that  Dostoevsky's  epilepsy  was  of  the 
second  kind.  This  cannot,  strictly  speaking,  be  proved;  to  do  that 
one  would  have  to  be  able  to  fix  the  first  appearance  of  the  epi- 
lepsy and  the  subsequent  fluctuations  of  the  attacks  in  the  con- 
tinuity of  his  psychic  life,  and  for  that  we  know  too  little.  The 
descriptions  of  the  seizures  themselves  teach  us  nothing,  our  in- 
formation about  the  relations  between  the  seizures  and  Dostoev- 
sky's experiences  are  defective  and  often  inconsistent.  The  most 
probable  assumption  is  that  the  attacks  go  back  to  his  childhood, 
that  the  symptoms  were  mild  to  start  with,  and  did  not  assume 
epileptic  form  until  after  the  terrible  experience  of  his  eighteenth 
year,  the  murder  of  his  father.2  It  would  be  very  convenient  if  it 
could  be  established  that  the  attacks  ceased  entirely  during  his 
exile  in  Siberia,  but  other  accounts  are  opposed  to  this.3 

The  unmistakable  connection  between  the  murder  of  the  father 


8  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  The  Brothers  Karamazov  and  the  fate  of  Dostoevsky's  father 
has  struck  more  than  one  of  his  biographers,  and  has  caused  them 
to  refer  to  a  "certain  modern  psychological  school."  A  psycho- 
analytical consideration — for  it  is  psychoanalysis  that  is  meant — 
is  tempted  to  see  in  this  event  the  most  serious  trauma,  and  in 
Dostoevsky's  reaction  to  it,  the  crucial  point  of  his  neurosis. 

But  if  I  undertake  to  substantiate  this  idea  by  means  of  psycho- 
analysis, I  expose  myself  to  the  danger  of  being  unintelligible  to  all 
those  readers  who  are  unfamiliar  with  the  language  and  teaching  of 
psychoanalysis. 

We  have  one  certain  starting  point.  We  know  the  meaning  of 
the  first  attacks  from  which  Dostoevsky  suffered  in  his  early  youth, 
long  before  the  incidence  of  the  "epilepsy."  These  attacks  had  a 
death  significance:  they  were  brought  on  by  the  fear  of  death  and 
consisted  of  a  lethargic  somnolent  condition.  The  disease  first  came 
upon  him  as  a  boy  in  the  form  of  a  sudden  groundless  melancholy, 
"a  feeling,"  as  he  later  told  his  friend  Soloviev,  "that  I  was  going 
to  die  on  the  spot,  and  this  was  actually  followed  by  a  state 
exactly  similar  to  real  death.  .  .  ."  His  brother  Andrei  tells  us  that 
in  his  childhood  Fedor  used  to  leave  little  notes  about  before  he 
went  to  sleep;  he  was  afraid  that  he  would  fall  into  a  deathlike 
sleep  during  the  night  and  begged  that  his  burial  should  be  post- 
poned for  five  days.4 

We  know  the  meaning  and  intention  of  such  death  seizures. 
They  signify  identification  with  a  dead  person,  either  one  who  is 
really  dead,  or  one  still  alive  whom  one  wishes  dead.  The  latter 
case  is  the  more  important.  The  attack  has  then  the  value  of  a  pun- 
ishment. You  have  wished  another  person's  death,  you  become  that 
person  and  are  yourself  dead.  Psychoanalytic  doctrine  here  makes 
the  assertion  that  this  other  person  for  a  boy  is  usually  the  father; 
the  hysterical  attack  is  thus  a  punishment  for  having  wished  for 
the  death  of  a  hated  father. 

Parricide  is,  according  to  a  well-known  conception,  the  chief  and 
primitive  crime  of  humanity  as  well  as  of  the  individual.5  It  is  in 
any  case  the  main  source  of  the  sense  of  guilt;  we  do  not  know  if  it 
is  the  only  one.  Researches  have  not  yet  established  the  psychic 
origin  of  guilt  and  the  need  for  expiation.  But  it  is  not  necessary 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  9 

for  it  to  be  the  only  one.  The  psychological  position  is  compli- 
cated and  requires  explanation.  The  relation  of  the  boy  to  the 
father  is,  as  we  say,  an  "ambivalent"  one  (that  is,  composed  of 
conflicting  feelings  of  tenderness  and  hostility).  In  addition  to  the 
hate  which  wants  to  remove  the  father  as  a  rival,  a  measure  of 
tenderness  for  him  also  exists  as  a  rule.  Both  attitudes  of  mind 
combine  to  produce  identification  with  the  father:  the  boy  wants 
to  be  in  his  father's  place  because  he  admires  him  and  wants  to  be 
like  him,  and  also  because  he  wishes  to  put  him  out  of  his  way. 
This  evolution  now  comes  up  against  a  serious  obstacle.. At  a  cer- 
tain moment  the  child  comes  to  understand  that  the  attempt  to 
remove  the  father  as  a  rival  would  be  punished  by  the  father  with 
castration.  From  fear  of  castration,  that  is,  in  the  interests  of  pre- 
serving his  virility,  arises  also  a  wish  to  possess  his  mother  and 
to  remove  the  father.  So  far  as  this  wish  remains  in  the  uncon- 
scious, it  forms  the  basis  of  the  sense  of  guilt.  We  believe  that  we 
are  here  describing  normal  processes.  We  have,  it  is  true,  to  make 
an  important  amplification  in  the  normal  fate  of  the  so-called 
Oedipus  complex. 

A  further  complication  arises  when  the  constitutional  factor  we 
call  bisexuality  is  more  strongly  developed  in  the  child.  Then,  under 
the  influence  of  the  threat  to  virility  by  castration,  the  tendency  is 
strengthened  to  deflect  in  the  direction  of  effeminacy,  to  put  oneself 
in  the  place  of  the  mother  and  take  over  her  part  as  the  object  of 
the  father's  love.  Only  the  fear  of  castration  makes  this  also  im- 
possible. The  child  understands  that  he  must  suffer  castration  if  he 
wants  to  be  loved  by  the  father  as  a  woman.  Thus,  both  impulses, 
hatred  for  the  father  and  being  in  love  with  the  father,  become 
repressed.  There  is  a  certain  psychological  difference  in  the  fact 
that  the  hatred  of  the  father  is  abandoned  in  consequence  of  the 
fear  of  an  external  danger  (castration),  while  the  amorous  feeling 
toward  the  father  is  treated  as  an  inward  impulse  danger,  although 
fundamentally  it  goes  back  to  the  above-mentioned  external  danger. 

What  makes  hatred  for  the  father  untenable  is  fear  of  the  father: 
castration  is  terrible,  both  as  a  punishment  and  as  the  price  of  love. 
Of  the  two  factors  which  repress  the  hatred  of  the  father,  the  first, 
the  direct  dread  of  punishment  and  castration,  may  be  called  the 


10  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

normal  one,  the  pathogeneous  reinforcement  seems  to  come  only 
with  the  second  factor,  the  fear  of  the  feminine  attitude.  Thus  a 
strong  bisexual  predisposition  becomes  one  of  the  conditions  or 
confirmations  of  the  neurosis.  Such  a  predisposition  must  certainly 
be  assumed  in  Dostoevsky  and  shows  itself  in  a  possible  form 
(latent  homosexuality)  in  the  important  part  played  by  male  friend- 
ships in  his  life,  in  his  extraordinarily  gentle  attitude  to  rivals  in 
love,  and  in  his  remarkable  understanding  of  situations  which  are 
explainable  only  through  repressed  homosexuality,  as  many  exam- 
ples from  his  novels  show. 

I  regret,  although  I  cannot  alter  the  facts,  that  these  ideas  about 
these  attitudes  of  hate  for  and  love  of  the  father  and  their  trans- 
formation under  the  influence  of  the  threat  of  castration,  will  ap- 
pear unsavory  and  incredible  to  readers  unfamiliar  with  psycho- 
analysis. I  should  expect  that  it  would  be  the  castration  complex 
that  would  arouse  the  most  general  repugnance.  I  can  only  assert 
that  psychoanalytic  experience  has  put  these  relations  beyond  the 
reach  of  doubt,  and  has  taught  us  to  recognize  in  them  the  key  to 
every  neurosis.  This  key  we  must  then  apply  to  our  author's  "epi- 
lepsy." So  strange  to  our  consciousness  are  the  things  by  which 
our  unconscious  psychic  life  is  controlled!  The  consequences  of  the 
repression  of  the  hatred  of  the  father  in  the  Oedipus  complex  are 
not  exhausted  by  the  foregoing  observations. 

A  new  factor  is  that  the  identification  with  the  father  ultimately 
compels  for  itself  a  permanent  place  in  the  ego.  It  is  adopted  into 
the  ego,  but  it  there  appoints  itself  a  special  instance  for  the  rest 
of  the  content  of  the  ego.  We  call  it  the  superego,  and  ascribe 
to  it,  the  inheritor  of  the  parental  influence,  the  most  important 
functions. 

If  the  father  was  hard,  violent,  and  cruel,  the  superego  takes 
these  characteristics  from  him,  and  in  its  relation  to  the  ego,  the 
passivity  which  was  supposed  to  have  been  repressed  re-establishes 
itself.  The  superego  has  become  sadistic,  the  ego  becomes  mas- 
ochistic, that  is  to  say,  fundamentally  passive  like  a  woman.  The 
ego  has  a  great  craving  for  punishment,  which  is  partly  provided 
by  fate  and  partly  finds  satisfaction  in  ill-treatment  by  the  super- 
ego (consciousness  of  guilt).  Every  punishment  is  at  bottom  cas- 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  1 1 

tration,  and,  as  such,  a  fulfillment  of  the  old  passive  attitude  to 
the  father.  Even  fate  is  ultimately  only  a  later  father  projection. 
The  normal  processes  in  the  formation  of  the  conscience  must 
be  similar  to  the  abnormal  ones  described  here.  We  have  not  yet 
succeeded  in  fixing  their  boundaries.  It  will  be  noted  that  ultimately 
the  largest  share  is  ascribed  to  the  passive  component,  the  repressed 
femininity.  Moreover,  as  an  accidental  factor,  it  is  of  importance 
whether  the  father,  who  is  feared  in  any  case,  was  in  reality  espe- 
cially violent.  This  is  true  in  Dostoevsky's  case,  and  we  shall  trace 
back  both  his  extraordinary  sense  of  guilt  and  masochistic  conduct 
to  a  very  strong  feminine  component.  Thus  the  formula  for  Dos- 
toevsky is  as  follows:  a  person  of  particularly  strong  bisexual  pre- 
disposition, who  can  defend  himself  with  special  intensity  against 
dependence  on  an  especially  hard  father.  The  character  of  bisexual- 
ity  we  add  to  the  earlier-mentioned  components  of  his  nature.  The 
youthful  symptom  of  the  deathlike  seizures  is  thus  explained  as  a 
father  identification  of  the  ego,  admitted  by  the  superego  as  a  form 
of  punishment.  You  wished  to  kill  your  father  in  order  to  be  your 
father.  Now  you  are  the  father,  but  the  dead  father.  The  ordinary 
mechanism  of  hysterical  symptoms.  And  further:  Now  your  father 
kills  you.  For  the  ego  the  death  symptom  is  a  phantasy  satisfaction 
of  the  male  wish,  and,  at  the  same  time,  a  masochistic  satisfaction; 
for  the  superego,  it  is  a  punishment  satisfaction,  that  is,  a  sadistic 
satisfaction.  Both  of  them,  the  ego  and  the  superego,  carry  on  the 
role  of  the  father.  To  sum  up,  the  relation  between  the  person  and 
the  father  object,  by  retaining  its  content,  is  transformed  into  a 
relation  between  the  ego  and  the  superego,  a  new  setting  on  a  fresh 
stage.  Such  infantile  reactions  from  the  Oedipus  complex  may  dis- 
appear if  reality  gives  them  no  further  nourishment.  But  the  charac- 
ter of  the  father  remains  the  same,  or  rather,  it  deteriorates  with 
the  years,  and  so  Dostoevsky's  hatred  for  the  father,  his  wish  for 
the  death  of  this  wicked  father,  is  maintained.  Now  it  is  dangerous 
if  reality  fulfills  such  repressed  wishes.  Phantasy  has  become  real- 
ity, all  defensive  measures  are  reinforced.  Dostoevsky's  seizures 
now  assume  an  epileptic  character;  they  still  of  course  signify  the 
father  identification  as  a  means  of  punishment,  but  they  have  be- 
come terrible,  like  the  frightful  death  of  the  father  itself.  What 


12  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

further  content  they  have  absorbed,  particularly  sexual  content, 
escapes  conjecture. 

One  thing  is  noteworthy.  In  the  aura  of  the  epileptic  attack,  one 
moment  of  supreme  happiness  is  felt,  which  may  very  well  have 
been  the  fixation  of  the  triumph  and  the  liberation  felt  at  hearing 
the  news  of  the  death,  to  be  followed  immediately  by  an  all  the 
more  cruel  punishment.  We  have  divined  just  such  a  sequence  of 
triumph  and  mourning,  festive  joy  and  mourning,  in  the  brothers  of 
the  primal  horde  who  murdered  their  father,  and  we  find  it  re- 
peated in  the  ceremony  of  the  funeral  feast.  If  it  had  happened 
that  Dostoevsky  had  been  free  from  his  seizures  in  Siberia,  this 
would  only  substantiate  the  view  that  his  seizures  were  his  punish- 
ment. He  did  not  need  them  any  longer,  when  he  had  been  punished 
in  another  way.  But  this  cannot  be  proved.  Rather  does  the  neces- 
sity of  punishment  felt  by  Dostoevsky's  psychic  economy  explain 
the  fact  that  he  lived  through  these  years  of  misery  and  humiliation 
without  breaking  down.  Dostoevsky's  sentence  as  a  political  of- 
fender was  unjust;  he  must  have  been  aware  of  this,  but  he  accepted 
this  undeserved  punishment  at  the  hands  of  the  Tsar,  the  Little 
Father,  as  a  substitute  for  the  punishment  he  deserved  for  his  sin 
against  his  real  father.  Instead  of  punishing  himself,  he  let  himself 
be  punished  by  his  father's  deputy.  We  glimpse  here  a  proof  of  the 
psychological  justification  of  penalties  imposed  by  society.  It  is  a 
fact  that  large  groups  of  criminals  long  for  punishment.  Their 
superego  demands  it,  thus  saving  itself  from  inflicting  the  punish- 
ment. 

Everyone  who  is  familiar  with  the  complicated  transformation 
of  meaning  undergone  by  hysterical  symptoms  will  understand  that 
no  further  attempt  will  be  made  here,  beyond  this  beginning,  to 
fathom  the  meaning  of  Dostoevsky's  attacks.6  It  is  enough  that  we 
may  assume  that  the  original  meaning  remains  unchanged  behind 
all  later  overlayings.  It  may  be  said  that  Dostoevsky  never  got  free 
from  the  remorse  due  to  his  desire  to  murder  his  father.  It  also  de- 
termined his  attitude  to  the  two  other  domains  in  which  the  father 
relation  is  the  decisive  factor,  the  authority  of  the  State  and  reli- 
gion. In  the  first  he  ended  up  with  complete  submission  to  the  Tsar, 
the  Little  Father,  who  in  reality  had  once  played  with  him  the 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  13 

comedy  of  murder  which  his  attacks  so  often  preluded  for  him. 
Here  penitence  gained  the  upper  hand.  In  the  religious  sphere  he 
retained  more  freedom:  according  to  apparently  reliable  reports, 
up  to  the  last  instant  of  his  life,  he  wavered  between  faith  and 
atheism.  His  great  intellect  made  it  impossible  for  him  to  overlook 
a  single  one  of  the  intellectual  difficulties  to  which  faith  leads.  By 
an  individual  repetition  of  historical  evolution,  he  hoped  to  find  a 
way  out  and  a  redemption  from  guilt  in  the  Christ  ideal,  to  use  his 
very  sufferings  as  a  claim  to  a  Christ  role.  That  he  did  not  entirely 
succeed  in  this  and  become  a  reactionary  was  due  to  the  fact  that 
the  universal  human  filial  guilt,  on  which  religious  feeling  is  built, 
had  in  him  attained  to  a  superindividual  strength,  and  remained 
insuperable  even  to  his  great  mind.  Here  we  are  laying  ourselves 
open  to  the  objection  that  we  have  abandoned  the  impartiality  of 
analysis,  and  are  subjecting  Dostoevsky  to  values  which  are  justifi- 
able only  from  the  partial  standpoint  of  a  definite  philosophy.  A 
conservative  would  take  the  side  of  the  Grand  Inquisitor,  and  judge 
Dostoevsky  differently.  The  objection  is  just;  one  can  only  say  in 
extenuation  that  Dostoevsky's  decision  appears  to  have  been  deter- 
mined by  an  intellectual  inhibition  due  to  his  neurosis. 

It  can  scarcely  be  mere  coincidence  that  three  of  the  master- 
pieces of  the  literature  of  all  time,  the  Oedipus  Rex  of  Sophocles, 
Shakespeare's  Hamlet,  and  Dostoevsky's  The  Brothers  Karamazov, 
should  all  deal  with  the  same  subject,  a  father's  murder.  In  all 
three,  too,  the  motive  for  the  deed,  sexual  rivalry  for  the  woman,  is 
laid  bare.  The  most  straightforward  is  certainly  the  representation 
in  the  drama  built  up  on  the  Greek  legend.  In  it  the  hero  himself 
commits  the  crime.  But  poetic  treatment  is  impossible  without 
softening  and  disguise.  The  naked  confession  of  a  desire  to  murder 
a  father,  as  we  arrive  at  it  in  analysis,  seems  intolerable  to  people 
without  analytical  training.  The  Greek  drama,  while  retaining  the 
crime,  introduces  the  indispensable  toning  down  in  a  masterly  fash- 
ion by  projecting  the  motive  of  the  hero  into  the  real  as  a  compul- 
sion of  destiny  external  to  himself.  The  hero  commits  the  fatal  deed 
unintentionally  and  apparently  uninfluenced  by  the  woman;  the 
connection  is,  however,  preserved  by  making  the  winning  of  the 


14  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Queen-mother  dependent  on  a  repetition  of  the  deed  on  the  Sphinx, 
the  monster  which  symbolizes  the  father.  After  the  guilt  is  revealed 
to  consciousness,  the  hero  makes  no  attempt  to  exculpate  himself 
by  appealing  to  the  expedient  of  the  compulsion  of  destiny.  The 
guilt  is  recognized  and  punished  as  a  conscious  crime,  which  is 
bound  to  appear  unjust,  but  which  psychologically  is  perfectly 
right.  The  presentation  in  the  English  play  is  more  indirect:  there 
the  hero  does  not  commit  the  crime  himself;  it  is  committed  by 
another,  for  whom  it  is  not  parricide.  The  revolting  motive  of 
sexual  rivalry  for  the  woman  does  not,  therefore,  need  to  be  dis- 
guised. Also,  we  see  the  Oedipus  complex  of  the  hero,  as  it  were, 
in  a  reflected  light,  by  learning  the  effect  on  him  of  the  mother's 
crime.  He  has  to  avenge  the  crime,  but  proves  in  a  very  remarkable 
way  incapable  of  doing  so.  We  know  that  it  is  his  remorse  that 
cripples  him;  in  a  way  quite  consistent  with  neurotic  processes,  the 
remorse  is  displaced  upon  the  perception  of  his  inadequacy  for 
fulfilling  his  task.  There  are  signs  that  the  hero  feels  this  guilt  as 
a  superindividual  one.  He  despises  others  no  less  than  himself: 
"Use  every  man  after  his  desert,  and  who  should  'scape  whipping?" 
The  Russian  novel  goes  a  step  farther  in  this  direction.  Here 
also  the  murder  is  committed  by  another,  but  that  other  is  one  who 
stands  to  the  murdered  man  in  the  same  filial  relation  as  the  hero, 
Dmitri,  another,  in  whom  the  motive  of  sexual  rivalry  is  openly 
admitted,  and  to  whom  Dostoevsky  has  most  remarkably  attrib- 
uted his  own  disease,  alleged  epilepsy,  as  if  he  were  trying  to 
confess  that  the  epileptic,  the  neurotic,  in  him  was  a  parricide. 
Then  follows  in  the  speech  for  the  defense  the  famous  mockery 
of  psychology,  which  is  a  double-edged  weapon.  A  magnificent 
disguise,  which  has  only  to  be  turned  round  to  discover  the  deepest 
meaning  of  Dostoevsky's  conception.  It  is  not  psychology  which 
deserves  mockery,  but  the  procedure  of  judicial  examination.  It  is 
a  matter  of  indifference  who  actually  committed  the  crime;  psy- 
chology is  interested  only  in  discovering  who  desired  it,  and  who 
welcomed  it  when  it  was  done,  and  for  that  reason,  all  the  brothers 
are  equally  guilty,  even  the  sharply  contrasted  figure  of  Aliosha, 
the  impulsive  sensual  man,  the  skeptical  cynic  and  the  epileptic 
criminal.  In  The  Brothers  Karamazov  we  find  one  very  significant 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  15 

scene.  The  Elder  in  his  conversation  with  Dmitri  has  discovered 
that  Dmitri  bears  in  himself  a  readiness  to  murder  his  father,  and 
throws  himself  at  his  feet.  It  is  impossible  that  this  is  meant  as  an 
expression  of  admiration;  it  must  signify  that  the  holy  man  is  re- 
jecting the  temptation  to  despise  or  shrink  from  the  murderer,  and, 
therefore,  humiliates  himself  before  him.  Dostoevsky 's  sympathy 
for  the  criminal  is  in  fact  boundless:  it  goes  far  beyond  the  pity 
which  the  unhappy  wretch  can  claim,  and  reminds  us  of  the 
"sacred  awe"  with  which  epileptics  and  lunatics  were  treated  in 
olden  days.  The  criminal  is  to  him  almost  a  Redeemer,  who  has 
taken  on  himself  the  guilt  which  others  would  otherwise  have 
had  to  bear.  One  need  not  now  commit  murder,  after  he  has  com- 
mitted murder,  but  one  must  be  grateful  to  him,  because,  without 
him,  one  would  oneself  have  to  have  been  a  murderer.  That  is  not 
pure  kindliness  and  sympathy;  it  is  identification  on  the  basis  of  a 
similar  murderous  impulse,  in  reality  a  slightly  displaced  narcis- 
sism. This  is  not  to  dispute  the  ethical  value  of  this  kindliness.  Per- 
haps the  mechanism  of  kindly  sympathy  in  other  men  is  the  same, 
only  it  is  particularly  easy  to  discern  in  the  extreme  case  of  the 
novelist,  who  was  ridden  by  the  sense  of  guilt.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  this  identifying  sympathy  was  a  decisive  factor  in  determining 
Dostoevsky's  choice  of  material.  He  dealt  first  with  the  common 
criminal — the  criminal  from  egoism — the  political  and  the  reli- 
gious criminal,  and  not  until  the  end  of  his  life  did  he  come  back 
to  the  primal  criminal,  the  parricide,  and  in  him  made  his  poetical 
confession. 

The  publication  of  Dostoevsky's  posthumous  papers  and  of  the 
diaries  of  his  wife  has  thrown  a  bright  light  on  one  episode  in  his 
life,  namely  the  period  in  Germany  when  he  was  obsessed  with  the 
gambling  mania  (Dostojewski  am  Roulette),  which  it  is  impossible 
to  regard  otherwise  than  as  an  unmistakable  fit  of  pathological  pas- 
sion. There  was  no  lack  of  ways  of  rationalizing  this  remarkable 
and  unworthy  behavior.  As  often  happens  with  neurotics,  the  sense 
of  guilt  had  taken  tangible  shape  in  the  form  of  a  burden  of  debt, 
and  Dostoevsky  was  able  to  take  refuge  behind  the  pretext  that  he 
was  trying  by  his  winnings  at  the  tables  to  make  it  possible  for  him 
to  return  to  Russia  without  being  arrested  by  his  creditors.  But  that 


16  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

was  only  a  pretext;  Dostoevsky  was  acute  enough  to  recognize  this 
and  honest  enough  to  confess  it.  He  knew  that  the  chief  thing  was 
the  gambling  in  itself,  le  jeu  pour  le  jeu.7  All  the  details  of  his  im- 
pulsively irrational  conduct  show  this,  and  something  more  as  well. 
He  never  rested  until  he  had  lost  everything.  Gambling  was  for  him 
also  a  method  of  self-punishment.  He  had  time  and  again  given  his 
young  wife  his  promise  or  his  word  of  honor  not  to  play  again, 
or  not  to  play  again  on  a  particular  day,  and,  according  to  her,  he 
almost  always  broke  it.  When  his  losses  had  reduced  himself  and 
her  to  the  direst  need,  he  derived  a  second  pathological  satisfac- 
tion from  that.  He  could  abuse  and  humiliate  himself  to  her,  invite 
her  to  despise  him  and  to  regret  that  she  had  married  an  old  sin- 
ner; and  when  he  had  unburdened  his  conscience  in  this  way,  the 
gambling  was  resumed  next  day.  The  young  wife  accustomed  her- 
self to  this  cycle,  because  she  had  noticed  that  the  one  thing  which 
offered  any  real  hope  of  escape,  namely  his  literary  activity,  was 
never  more  successful  than  when  they  had  lost  everything  and 
pawned  their  last  possessions.  Naturally  she  did  not  understand  the 
connection.  When  his  sense  of  guilt  was  satisfied  by  the  punish- 
ments he  had  imposed  on  himself,  the  inhibitions  to  work  ceased 
to  operate,  and  he  allowed  himself  to  take  a  few  steps  on  the  way 
to  success.8 

What  part  of  long-buried  childhood  compels  its  repetition  in  the 
gambler's  compulsion  may  without  difficulty  be  divined  from  a 
story  by  a  young  novelist.  Stefan  Zweig,  who,  by  the  way,  has 
himself  devoted  a  study  to  Dostoevsky  (Drei  Meister),  in  a  collec- 
tion of  three  long  short  stories,  Die  Verwirrung  der  Gefuhle  {The 
Confusion  of  the  Emotions) ,  has  a  story  which  he  calls  Vierundz- 
wangziz  Stunden  aus  dem  Leben  einer  Frau  (Four-and-Twenty 
Hours  in  a  Woman's  Life).  This  little  masterpiece  ostensibly  pur- 
ports only  to  show  what  an  irresponsible  creature  woman  is,  and 
to  what  excesses,  surprising  even  to  herself,  an  unexpected  experi- 
ence may  drive  her.  But  the  story  tells  far  more  than  this:  when  it 
is  subjected  to  an  analytical  interpretation  it  represents  without 
such  apologetic  tendencies  something  quite  different,  something 
universally  human  or  rather  masculine.  And  such  an  interpretation 
is  so  obvious  that  it  cannot  be  denied.  It  is  characteristic  of  the 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  17 

nature  of  artistic  creation  that  the  author,  who  is  a  personal  friend, 
was  able  to  assure  me  that  the  interpretation  given  by  me  was  com- 
pletely alien  both  to  his  mind  and  his  intention,  although  many 
details  were  woven  into  the  narrative  which  seemed  expressly  de- 
signed to  indicate  the  secret  clue.  In  the  story  a  distinguished 
elderly  lady  tells  the  author  of  an  experience  she  had  had  twenty 
years  before.  She  had  been  left  a  widow  when  still  young,  and  was 
the  mother  of  two  sons,  who  no  longer  needed  her.  Expecting  noth- 
ing further  from  life,  at  the  age  of  forty-two,  on  one  of  her  aimless 
journeyings,  she  visited  the  Casino  at  Monte  Carlo,  where,  among 
all  the  remarkable  sights  of  the  place,  she  was  soon  fascinated  by 
two  hands,  which  seemed  to  betray  all  the  feelings  of  the  unlucky 
gambler  with  terrifying  sincerity  and  intensity.  These  hands  be- 
longed to  a  handsome  young  man — the  author  unintentionally  makes 
him  the  same  age  as  the  eldest  son  of  the  narrator — who,  after 
having  lost  everything,  left  the  room  in  the  depths  of  despair,  evi- 
dently with  the  intention  of  ending  his  hopeless  life  in  the  gardens. 
An  inexplicable  feeling  of  sympathy  compels  her  to  follow  him  and 
make  every  effort  to  save  him.  He  takes  her  for  one  of  the  importu- 
nate women  so  common  there,  and  tries  to  shake  her  off;  but  she 
stays  with  him  and  finds  herself  obliged  in  the  most  natural  way 
possible  to  share  his  room  at  the  hotel,  and  finally  his  bed.  After 
this  improvised  night  of  love,  she  exacts  from  the  young  man,  now 
apparently  calmed  down,  a  promise  that  he  will  never  play  again, 
provides  him  with  money  for  his  journey  home  and  undertakes  to 
meet  him  at  the  station  before  the  departure  of  the  train.  Then  she 
begins  to  feel  a  great  tenderness  for  him,  wants  to  sacrifice  every- 
thing to  keep  him,  and  makes  up  her  mind  to  go  with  him  instead 
of  saying  good-by.  Various  adverse  circumstances  make  her  miss 
the  train,  and  in  her  longing  for  the  lost  one,  she  again  visits  the 
gaming  rooms,  and  there,  to  her  horror,  sees  once  more  the  hands 
which  had  first  excited  her  sympathy:  the  faithless  boy  had  gone 
back  to  his  gambling.  She  reminds  him  of  his  promise,  but,  ob- 
sessed by  his  passion,  he  calls  her  a  spoilsport,  tells  her  to  get  out, 
and  flings  down  the  money  with  which  she  had  tried  to  save  him. 
She  hurries  away  deeply  mortified,  and  learns  later  that  she  has  not 
succeeded  in  rescuing  him  from  suicide. 


18  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

This  brilliantly  told,  perfectly  motivated  story  indeed  exists  in 
its  own  right,  and  is  certain  of  deeply  affecting  all  readers.  But 
psychoanalysis  shows  us  that  its  invention  is  based  on  the  extinction 
of  a  wish  phantasy  belonging  to  the  period  of  puberty,  which  many 
people  consciously  remember.  The  phantasy  embodies  a  wish  that 
the  mother  should  herself  initiate  the  boy  into  sexual  life  in  order 
to  save  him  from  the  dreaded  evils  of  onanism.  All  the  "release" 
poetic  inventions  which  we  find  so  frequently,  have  the  same  origin. 
The  vice  of  onanism  is  replaced  by  the  passion  for  gambling;  the 
emphasis  laid  on  the  passionate  activity  of  the  hands  betrays  this 
derivation.  The  gambling  mama  is  actually  an  equivalent  of  the 
old  onanism  compulsion;  "playing"  is  the  very  word  used  in  the 
nursery  for  the  activity  of  the  hands  in  masturbation.  The  irresisti- 
bility of  the  temptation,  the  solemn,  never  kept,  resolutions  never 
to  do  it,  the  soothing  pleasure,  and  the  bad  conscience  which  tells 
him  that  he  is  ruining  himself  (suicide),  remain  unaltered  in  the 
substitution.  Zweig's  story  is  told  from  the  point  of  view  of  the 
mother,  not  of  the  son.  The  son  may  cajole  himself  by  thinking: 
if  my  mother  knew  what  dangers  onanism  may  involve  me  in,  she 
would  certainly  save  me  by  permitting  me  to  lavish  my  tenderness 
on  her  own  body.  The  identification  of  the  mother  with  the  prosti- 
tute made  by  the  young  man  in  the  story  belongs  to  the  same 
phantasy.  It  brings  the  unattainable  within  easy  reach.  The  bad 
conscience  which  accompanies  this  phantasy  entails  the  unhappy 
ending  of  the  story.  It  is  also  interesting  to  note  how  the  external 
circumstances  employed  by  the  author  in  the  story  try  to  conceal 
its  analytic  meaning.  For  it  is  extremely  questionable  whether  the 
love  life  of  woman  is  controlled  by  sudden  and  mysterious  im- 
pulses. Analysis  rather  goes  to  show  that  there  is  adequate  motiva- 
tion for  the  surprising  behavior  of  a  woman  who  has  hitherto  re- 
jected love.  Faithful  to  the  memory  of  her  dead  husband,  she  has 
armed  herself  against  all  similar  claims,  but — and  here  the  phan- 
tasy of  the  son  is  right — she,  as  mother,  has  not  escaped  trans- 
ference of  love  to  the  son,  of  which  she  is  entirely  unconscious, 
and  fate  is  able  to  capture  her  at  this  undefended  spot. 

If  the  gambling  habit,  with  its  unsuccessful  struggles  to  break 
oneself  from  it  and  its  opportunities  for  self-punishment,  is  a  repe- 


Dostoevsky  and  Parricide  19 

tition  of  the  onanism  compulsion,  we  shall  not  be  surprised  that  it 
gained  such  a  firm  place  in  Dostoevsky's  life.  We  find  no  case  of 
serious  neurosis  in  which  the  autoerotic  satisfaction  of  immaturity 
and  puberty  does  not  play  its  part,  and  the  relations  between  the 
effort  to  suppress  it  and  the  fear  of  the  father  are  so  well-known 
that  they  need  only  be  mentioned.9 

{Translated  by  D.  F.  Tait) 


1  See  the  discussion  of  this  point  in  Der  unbekannte  Dostojewski,  1926. 
Stefan  Zweig  says:  "He  does  not  stop  before  the  chambers  of  bourgeois 
morality,  and  no  one  can  say  exactly  how  far  he  transgressed  the  bounds  of 
law  in  his  own  life,  or  how  much  of  the  criminal  instincts  of  his  heroes  was 
realised  in  him"  (Drei  Meister,  1920).  For  the  intimate  relations  between 
Dostoevsky's  characters  and  his  own  experiences,  see  the  arguments  in  the 
introductory  section  of  Rene  Fiilop-Miller's  Dostojewski  am  Roulette,  1925, 
which  relate  to  Nikolai  Strakhov. 

2  See  Rene  Fiilop-Miller's  article,  Dostojewski's  Heilige  Krankheit,  in 
Wissen  und  Leben,  Nos.  19-20  (1924).  Of  special  interest  is  the  information 
that  in  the  novelist's  childhood,  "something  terrible,  agonising  and  unforget- 
table" happened,  to  which  the  first  signs  of  his  disease  may  be  traced  (Suvo- 
rin  in  an  article  in  the  Novoe  Vremia  for  1881,  quoted  in  the  introduction  to 
Dostojewski  am  Roulette,  p.  xlv).  Further,  Orest  Miller  in  Dostojewski's 
autobiographische  Schriften  says:  "There  is,  however,  another  special  piece 
of  evidence  about  Fedor  Mikhailovich's  illness,  which  relates  to  his  earliest 
youth,  and  brings  the  illness  into  relation  with  a  tragic  event  in  the  family 
life  of  his  parents.  But,  although  this  piece  of  evidence  was  given  to  me 
orally  by  one  who  was  a  close  friend  of  Dostoevsky,  because  I  can  nowhere 
find  confirmation  of  it,  I  am  unable  to  make  up  my  mind  to  give  an  exact 
and  detailed  account  of  it"  (p.  140).  Biographers  and  scientific  researchers 
cannot  be  grateful  for  this  discretion. 

3  Most  of  the  accounts,  including  Dostoevsky's  own,  maintain  rather  that 
the  illness  first  assumed  a  definite  epileptic  character  during  the  exile  in 
Siberia.  Unfortunately  there  is  reason  to  distrust  the  autobiographical  ac- 
counts of  neurotics.  Experience  shows  that  their  memories  introduce  falsifi- 
cations designed  to  break  down  an  unpleasant  causal  connection.  Neverthe- 
less, it  appears  certain  that  his  time  in  a  Siberian  prison  markedly  altered 
Dostoevsky's  morbid  state.  Cf.  Dostojewski's  Heilige  Krankheit,  p.  1186. 

4  Dostojewski  am  Roulette,  Introduction,  p.  lx. 

5  See  the  author's  Totem  und  Tabu. 

6  See  Totem  und  Tabu.  The  best  account  of  the  meaning  and  content  of 
his  seizures  was  given  by  Dostoevsky  himself,  when  he  told  his  friend 
Strakhov  that  the  irritability  and  depression  which  followed  an  epileptic 
seizure  were  due  to  the  fact  that  he  seemed  to  himself  a  criminal,  and  could 
not  get  rid  of  the  feeling  that  he  was  guilty  of  an  offense  unknown  to  him, 


20  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

that  he  had  committed  a  terrible  evil  deed,  which  oppressed  him  (Dosto- 
jewski's  Heilige  Krankheit,  p.  1188).  In  these  complaints,  psychoanalysis 
sees  a  proof  of  recognition  of  the  "psychic  reality,"  and  tries  to  bring  a 
knowledge  of  the  unknown  offense  to  the  surface  of  consciousness. 

7  "The  main  thing  is  the  gambling  itself,"  he  wrote  in  one  of  his  letters. 
"I  swear  that  greed  for  money  has  nothing  to  do  with  it,  although  Heaven 
knows  I  am  sorely  in  need  of  money." 

8  "He  always  remained  at  the  gambling  tables  until  he  had  lost  everything 
and  was  completely  ruined.  It  was  only  when  the  damage  was  complete  that 
the  demon  at  last  retired  from  his  soul  and  made  way  for  the  creative 
genius."  {Dostojewski  am  Roulette,  p.  Ixxxvi.) 

9  Most  of  the  views  here  expressed  are  also  contained  in  the  excellent 
book  of  Solan  Neufeld,  published  in  1923,  Dostojewski,  Skizze  zu  seiner 
Psychoanalyse. 


Selma  Fraiberg 


]Kajka  and  the  Dream 


For  most  of  his  life,  it  appears,  Kafka  lived  on 
terms  of  dangerous  intimacy  with  the  world  of  the  dream.  He  pos- 
sessed a  kind  of  sensory  knowledge  of  the  dream  and  the  dimen- 
sions of  consciousness  which  could  only  be  achieved  by  a  man 
who  had  an  extraordinary  relationship  to  his  own  inner  life.  This 
knowledge  did  not  come  from  a  clinical  study  of  his  own  states  of 
consciousness  and  I  feel  certain  that  it  did  not  come  from  psycho- 
analytic texts.  Kafka  was  not  an  academic  student  of  the  mind.  He 
was,  however,  a  meticulous  observer  of  his  own  mental  activity. 

There  is  evidence  that  he  experienced  mental  states  in  which 
dreamlike  images  and  fantasies  emerged,  then  were  caught  and 
held  in  consciousness;  naked  specimens  of  unconscious  produc- 
tions. Often  he  preserved  these  things  in  his  notebooks,  recorded 
along  with  the  texts  of  nocturnal  dreams,  obsessional  thoughts, 
fragments  of  memories,  and  hundreds  of  other  bits  and  pieces  of 
the  disordered  contents  of  his  inner  world.  Here  and  there  in  the 
Kafka  stories  a  piece  from  this  attic  debris  makes  its  ghostly  re- 
appearance. In  many  instances  a  dream,  a  fantasy  or  a  piece  of 
imagery  recorded  in  the  notebooks  becomes  the  starting  point  for 

21 


22  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

a  sketch  or  a  story.  There  is  evidence,  then,  that  he  not  only  made 
exhaustive  investigations  of  his  own  mental  processes,  but  also 
that  he  made  use  of  his  discoveries  in  his  writing. 

Introspection  for  Kafka  was  not  a  reflective  process  but  a  dis- 
ease, the  compulsion  of  his  morbid  guilt,  which  drew  him  deeper 
and  deeper  into  psychic  depths  in  hopeless  pursuit  of  the  crime  and 
the  judgment.  It  was  an  obsessional  occupation  which  became  a 
torment  for  him  and  slowly  widened  the  gap  between  himself  and 
the  real  world.  In  1922  this  estrangement  reached  a  critical  point 
and  Kafka  viewed  his  mental  state  with  alarm.  On  January  16,  he 
writes:  "This  past  week  I  suffered  something  very  like  a  breakdown 
.  .  .  impossible  to  sleep,  impossible  to  endure  life,  or,  more  exactly, 
the  course  of  life.  The  clocks  are  not  in  unison;  the  inner  one 
runs  crazily  on  at  a  devilish  or  demoniac  or  in  any  case  inhuman 
pace,  the  outer  one  limps  along  at  its  usual  speed.  What  else  can 
happen  but  that  the  worlds  split  apart,  and  they  do  split  apart, 
or  at  least  clash  in  a  fearful  manner.  There  are  doubtless  several 
reasons  for  the  wild  tempo  of  the  inner  process;  the  most  obvious 
one  is  introspection,  which  will  suffer  no  idea  to  sink  tranquilly 
to  rest  but  must  pursue  each  one  into  consciousness,  only  itself 
to  become  an  idea,  in  turn  to  be  pursued  by  renewed  introspec- 
tion." And  later  in  the  same  entry:  "The  solitude  that  for  the  most 
part  has  been  forced  on  me,  in  part  voluntarily  sought  by  me — 
but  what  was  this  if  not  compulsion  too? — is  now  losing  all  its  am- 
biguity and  approaches  its  denouement.  Where  is  it  leading?  The 
strongest  likelihood  is,  that  it  may  lead  to  madness  .  .  ."  Later  that 
month  the  panic  gives  way  to  melancholy  resignation.  On  January 
28,  he  writes  ". .  .  f or  I  am  now  a  citizen  of  this  other  world,  whose 
relationship  to  the  ordinary  one  is  the  relationship  of  the  wilder- 
ness to  cultivated  land.  .  .  ."  And  on  the  following  day  he  writes: 
"...  it  is  only  that  the  attraction  of  the  human  world  is  so  immense, 
in  an  instant  it  can  make  one  forget  everything.  Yet  the  attraction 
of  my  world  too  is  strong.  ..." 

The  mental  crisis  did  not  end  as  he  feared  in  madness  but  in  dis- 
ease. This  was  the  year  of  the  onset  of  Kafka's  tuberculosis.  He 
understood  his  illness,  and  wrote  to  Brod,  "My  head  has  made  an 
appointment  with  my  lungs  behind  my  back." 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  23 

Of  the  two  worlds,  Kafka's  and  "the  human  world,"  it  was  the 
first  that  he  knew  best.  Kafka  wrote  about  himself,  his  inner  ex- 
perience, and  the  struggle  with  nameless  tyrants,  the  lustful  couples 
who  copulate  within  the  sight  of  the  law,  the  endless  tribunal,  the 
comic-tragic  bureaucrats  and  corrupt  officials — all  of  these  were 
not  conceived  as  allegories  for  his  time  but  were  events  of  inner 
life.  (His  own  comments  and  interpretations  of  his  works  repeat- 
edly bear  this  out.)  If  his  writings  achieve  the  effect  of  satire  and 
broad  social  caricature  it  is  because  the  dream  is  in  itself  a  carica- 
ture of  life;  the  dream  is  in  one  sense  an  allegory.  Moreover,  Kafka 
,knew  this  and  understood  it  very  well.  In  a  conversation,  Janouch 
says  to  Kafka:  "The  Metamorphosis  is  a  terrible  dream,  a  terrible 
conception."  Kafka  replies:  "The  dream  reveals  the  reality,  which 
conception  lags  behind.  That  is  the  horror  of  life — the  terror  of 
art " 

I  think  it  is  also  a  mistake  to  look  upon  his  writings  as  "Freudian 
allegories"  or  to  speak  of  Kafka's  deliberate  use  of  "Freudian  sym- 
bols." If  Kafka  was  acquainted  with  psychoanalytic  ideas  (and 
there  is  some  evidence  for  this),  he  did  not  pluck  his  symbols  from 
clinical  texts  like  an  amateur  with  a  drugstore  dream  book. 

No  formula  for  dream  interpretation  exists  in  psychoanalysis. 

A  dream,  a  symbol,  can  be  properly  interpreted  only  through  the 

Jpersonal  associations  of  the  dreamer.  While  Freud  brought  atten- 

t  tion  to  a  number  of  "universal"  symbols,  he  repeatedly  stressed 

Vthe  multideterminants  in  symbol  choice,  and  hence  the  futility  of 

assigning  a  single  meaning  to  a  symbol. 

Moreover,  we  must  admit  that  even  those  symbols  which  are, 
properly  speaking,  "universal"  are  not  in  themselves  the  material 
for  creative  work.  Symbols  are  sterile  things  in  themselves;  it  is 
only  when  the  symbol  is  animated  through  personal  experience, 
when  it  acquires  dimensions  of  meaning  and  ambiguity,  that  it 
can  evoke  emotional  reactions. 

Kafka  may  have  profited  from  the  psychoanalytic  investigation 
of  dreams  and  dream  symbolism,  but  he  wrote  out  of  inner  experi- 
ence. An  investigation  of  Kafka  symbolism  will  demonstrate  re- 
peatedly how  little  he  was  influenced  by  the  arbitrary  dream  sym- 
bol. It  seems  to  me  to  be  as  unprofitable  to  try  to  understand  Kafka 


24  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

and  his  writing  in  terms  of  "Freudian  symbols"  as  it  is  to  under- 
stand a  dream  apart  from  the  dreamer's  own  associations. 

If  Kafka  knew  the  world  of  the  dream  better  than  the  rest  of  us 
he  was  not  indebted  to  Freud  but  to  his  p_ersonal  suffering.  He 
called  himself,  at  last,  "a  citizen  of  this  other  worldT^He'was  not 
like  the  rest  of  us,  thejiocturnal  visitors  who  are  favored  on  return 
with  a_niexdi^amnesia  or  dim^c^ttrHeJhad  taken  up  his  ghostly 
residence  there^  and haT^ituatiojaJiad  given  his  eyes  a  spljcTaTTJTncT 
of .lugh^vision^sa Jliat^the J^nK-^d^veTuToTThT~3ream,  which~~ 
ordinary  dreamers  call  uncertain  ^nd  in^istffietr-wereTarigible'  ancT 
real7c^pable-of-description  in  fine  detail.  Evenlfie-texts  of  his-own 
dreams,  recorded  in  his  ho^te^ooksTafe^emarkable  for  the  recall  of 
detail  and  the  visual  preciseness. 

The  danger  in  such  intimacy  with  the  dream  world  is  that  the 
connections  to  the  other  world  may  be  lost,  and  this  danger  was 
real  and  known  to  Kafka.  His  writing  was  the  bridge,  the  connec- 
tion between  the  two  worlds,  it  was  the  strongest  of  the  bonds 
[  which  united  him  with  the  real  world.  And  the  writings  themselves 
told  the  same  story  of  the  danger,  or  the  failure,  or  the  impossi- 
bility of  human  connections. 

He  wrote  his  biography  in  his  symbolism  of  lost  connections — 
the  intercepted  letters,  the  interrupted  coitus,  the  telephones  with 
the  connections  to  nowhere.  There  is  the  indescribable  loneliness 
and  sadness  of  the  little  train  in  "The  Railroad  of  Kalda"  which 
makes  its  way  into  the  frozen  interior  of  Russia  and  regularly 
comes  to  its  end  in  the  middle  of  the  wilderness,  never  to  reach  its 
destination.  It  is  a  train  without  mission,  bearing  a  tiny  freight  and 
a  few  passengers  in  the  course  of  the  year,  running  its  course  be- 
tween nowhere  and  nowhere.  At  the  train  stop  the  company's  agent 
dwells  in  solitude  in  an  abandoned  wooden  shed,  in  despair  of  life 
and  afraid  of  death.  The  Kalda  story,  too,  is  unfinished.  No  man 
can  write  the  end  of  his  autobiography. 

These  symbols  of  lost  connections,  like  all  powerful  symbols 
(and  unlike  those  symbols  which  are  plucked  cheaply  from  dream 
books),  are  highly  stratified  and  rich  in  latent  meaning.  They  speak 
of  the  failures  in  human  connections  and  communication  which  are 
recurrent  motifs  in  Kafka's  writing  and  his  life.  The  wretched  rail- 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  25 

road  of  Kalda,  once  conceived  by  its  owners  in  a  surge  of  capitalist 
daring  and  hope,  has  come  to  nothing,  a  toy  train  chugging  its 
way  through  vast  space  to  its  absurd  and  melancholy  end  in  the 
wastes.  This  is  the  parable  of  Kafka's  failure  in  the  eyes  of  his 
father.  And  the  ridiculous  railroad,  this  mockery  of  men's  extrava- 
gant hopes  and  ambitions,  is  Kafka's  symbol  for  the  failure  of  his 
own  ambitions,  and  for  the  failure  of  his  lifelong  struggle  with  an 
unconquerable  opponent,  here  represented  as  the  vastness  of  a 
wilderness  which  cannot  be  spanned  by  the  tiny  train,  in  real  life 
by  the  figure  of  a  giant,  the  father,  before  whom  Kafka  remained 
an  insignificant  dwarf  as  boy  and  grown  man.  It  is  the  symbol  for 
the  unfinished  work,  the  uncompleted  writings.  It  is  the  comment 
on  Kafka's  religious  views,  the  failure  to  reach  anything  "beyond." 
And  it  is  the  symbol  of  biological  failure.  The  little  train  which  is 
never  to  reach  its  destination  speaks  eloquently  and  touchingly  of 
Kafka's  sexual  impotence.  The  little  train  comes  to  its  end  in  the 
middle  of  the  wilderness,  a  full  day's  journey  from  Kalda,  dis- 
charges its  few  passengers,  its  small  freight,  and  returns.  And  the 
ground  of  this  tiny  settlement  was  frozen  solid,  we  are  told.  "I  was 
too  weak  to  conquer  the  soil,"  said  the  company's  agent.  "A  stub- 
born soil  that  was  frozen  solid  until  spring  and  that  even  resisted 
the  sharp  edge  of  my  new  axe.  Whatever  seed  one  sowed  in  it 
was  lost." 

It  is  a  striking  fact  that  Kafka,  the  "citizen  of  this  other  world," 
should  have  established  his  human  fellowship  in  his  writings 
through  the  fraternity  of  the  dream.  He  had  only  the  frailest  con- 
nections with  what  he  called  "the  human  world"  and  his  life  was 
a  tragedy  of  lost  and  broken  communications  with  that  world.  Yet 
his  literary  genius  was  most  pronounced  in  his  ability  to  communi- 
cate elemental  emotion  and  primal  experience.  It  is  a  communica- 
tion which  is  direct  and  powerful  and  owes  its  effect  to  a  profound 
insight;  it  is  the  creation  through  the  device  of  the  private  dream 
of  a  world  of  collective  memory  where  each  man  can  know  his 
fellow. 


26  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 


It  is  probable  that  when  the  current  enthusiasm  for  Kafka  has 
run  its  course  Kafka  will  emerge  with  less  stature  as  a  writer  but 
with  undiminished  prestige  as  an  innovator  in  the  technique  of  the 
psychological  novel.  For  Kafka  has  brought  a  thoroughly  original 
and  revolutionary  approach  to  the  problem  of  the  representation  of 
psychic  dimensions  in  literature. 

We  must  consider  that  the  discoveries  of  psychoanalysis  have 
made  demands  upon  the  writer  which  are  entirely  unlike  those  of 
other  systems  of  ideas.  A  theory  of  biology,  of  society,  of  politics 
or  of  history  can  be  given  suitable  expression  within  the  frame- 
work of  a  narrative  without  straining  the  conventional  means  of 
communication.  But  a  scientific  theory  of  psychic  dimensions  and 
the  primary  processes  of  thought  and  imagery  make  unique  de- 
mands upon  the  writer's  equipment  and  his  technique  when  he 
attempts  to  represent  these  ideas  in  his  work. 

Language,  itself,  as  an  instrument  of  the  reasoning  ego,  seems 
opposed  to  working  for  unreason  in  the  service  of  the  unconscious. 
The  higher  order  of  thinking  which  is  implicit  in  language  is  incom- 
patible with  the  archaic  mental  system  which  governs  the  primary 
thought  processes.  The  dream,  for  example,  doesn't  "speak"  a  lan- 
guage. It  can  only  represent  words  and  ideas  through  pictures.  The 
spoken  word  or  phrase,  if  it  comes  into  the  dream  at  all,  is  torn 
from  the  context  of  waking  life  and  played  back  like  a  dusty  rec- 
ord. Similarly,  the  writer's  conventional  devices  of  narration  op- 
pose the  representation  of  unconscious  thought  processes.  The 
storyteller  gives  order  to  his  materials;  the  dreamer  gives  disorder 
to  his.  The  story  reveals,  makes  explicit,  intends  to  communicate 
its  meaning;  the  manifest  dream  conceals,  disguises,  has  no  inten- 
tion of  communicating. 

It  is  understandable,  then,  that  the  writers  who  have  attempted 
to  bring  this  dimension  of  mind  into  the  scope  of  their  work  have 
usually  found  it  necessary  to  experiment  upon  the  language  itself 
and  the  techniques  of  narration.  In  one  way  or  another  these 
writers  tried  to  re-create  the  world  of  the  unconscious  by  borrowing 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  27 

the  method  of  unconscious  thought  processes,  the  so-called  "pri- 
mary process."  The  dream's  method  of  plastic  representation, 
ellipsis,  condensation  and  symbol  formation  provided  models  for 
a  new  writing.  The  writer's  problem  of  narration  of  unconscious 
mental  processes  also  found  solutions  in  the  model  of  the  dream. 
The  dream  dispenses  with  logical  connections.  Its  contents  are 
brought  together  only  because  of  their  associative  links  and  with- 
out regard  for  order  or  coherence.  Its  meaning  can  only  be  estab- 
lished through  translation.  The  transposition  of  unconscious 
thought  processes  in  writing  led  to  various  types  of  "stream  of 
consciousness"  writing  which,  like  the  dream,  could  be  understood 
only  through  interpretation. 

Kafka  did  not  trouble  himself  at  all  with  the  mechanical  prob- 
lems of  entering  the  dream  world.  He  found  an  easy  solution  to 
the  problem  of  the  language  barrier.  He  simply  walked  through  it. 
His  prose  style  which  Mann  described  as  "a  conscientious,  curi- 
ously explicit,  objective,  clear,  and  correct  style"  undergoes  no 
distortions,  employs  no  language  tricks  and  is  perfectly  consistent 
and  reasonable  in  the  reporting  of  events,  real  or  delusional. 

No  one  has  succeeded  with  this  device  as  Kafka  has.  No  one 
else  can  evoke  the  world  of  the  dream  with  such  chilling  authen- 
ticity. Kafka's  so-called  "dream  technique"  springs  from  a  concep- 
tion of  the  dream  as  a  work  of  art.  Kafka  explored  the  aesthetic 
properties  of  the  dream.  He  understood  the  primary  relationship 
between  unconscious  mental  processes  and  the  form  and  compo- 
sition of  the  dream.  By  taking  the  dream  as  his  model  in  his  own 
compositions  he  achieved  the  perfect  formal  conditions  for  the  rep- 
resentation of  unconscious  experience.  Now  this,  in  itself,  is  not 
an  innovation;  experimental  writers  of  this  century  have  turned 
to  this  method  of  composition  repeatedly  in  the  attempt  to  evoke 
the  qualities  of  the  dream.  But  when  Kafka  unites  the  structural 
aspects  of  the  dream  with  his  narrative  technique,  his  composi- 
tions achieve  the  most  extraordinary  effects  of  the  dream  itself. 
This  is  all  the  more  impressive  when  we  regard  the  seeming  art- 
lessness,  the  unambitious  character  of  his  narrative  technique.  It  is 
simply  the  narration  of  a  dream  by  a  dreamer. 


28  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

One  evening  I  returned  home  to  my  room  from  the  office  some- 
what later  than  usual — an  acquaintance  had  detained  me  below 
at  the  house  entrance  for  a  long  time — opened  the  door  (my 
thoughts  were  still  engrossed  by  our  conversation,  which  had  con- 
sisted chiefly  of  gossip  about  people's  social  standing),  hung  my 
overcoat  on  the  hook  and  was  about  to  cross  over  to  the  wash- 
stand  when  I  heard  a  strange,  spasmodic  breathing.  I  looked  up 
and,  on  top  of  the  stove  that  stood  deep  in  the  gloom  of  the 
corner,  saw  something  alive.  Yellowish  glittering  eyes  stared  at 
me;  large  round  woman's  breasts  rested  on  the  shelf  of  the  stove, 
on  either  side  beneath  the  unrecognizable  face;  the  creature 
seemed  to  consist  entirely  of  a  mass  of  soft  white  flesh;  a  thick 
yellowish  tail  hung  down  beside  the  stove,  its  tip  ceaselessly  pass- 
ing back  and  forth  over  the  cracks  of  the  tiles. 

The  first  thing  I  did  was  to  cross  over  with  long  strides  and 
sunken  head — nonsense!  nonsense!  I  kept  repeating  like  a 
prayer.  . . . 

The  effect  of  this  passage,  the  immediate  sense  of  the  nightmare, 
is  achieved  not  by  its  contents  alone,  not  by  the  stove  monster, 
but  by  the  prose  treatment.  It  is  the  conventional  narration,  the 
factual,  ordinary  rendering  of  this  event  which  produces  the  effect 
of  the  uncanny.  As  Freud  has  shown,  this  is  entirely  in  accord  with 
the  psychological  mechanism  in  the  experience  of  the  uncanny  by 
which  unreal  events  are  perceived  as  real,  the  inanimate  is  animated 
and  the  delusion  or  dream  obtains  conviction.1  Kafka  demonstrates 
by  this  technique  that  the  quality  of  uncanniness  which  we  attribute 
to  the  dream  and  the  delusion  is  not  a  property  of  the  dream  itself 
or  of  unconscious  experience;  it  belongs  to  the  ego,  the  representa- 
tive of  consciousness  and  reality  and  is  produced  when  a  repressed 
idea  is  given  illusory  confirmation  by  an  event  in  consciousness 
with  the  effect  of  momentarily  breaking  off  the  ego's  contact  with 
reality. 

Now  since  the  uncanny  is  not  a  quality  of  the  dream  itself,  but 
derives  from  an  impairment  of  an  ego  faculty,  that  of  reality  test- 
ing, a  narrative  which  attempts  to  simulate  the  experience  of 
dreaming  or  to  evoke  the  "uncanniness"  of  the  dream  must  deceive 
the  critical  and  judging  faculties  of  the  ego  through  a  prose  which 
apparently  sustains  logic  and  belief  at  the  same  time  that  it  affirms 
the  delusion.  The  ideal  prose  for  this  treatment  is  everyday  speech, 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  29 

a  factual  narration  in  simple  declarative  sentences.  The  narration 
of  events  and  visions  from  a  night  world  in  the  ordinary,  accus- 
tomed prose  of  waking  life  produces  exactly  that  sense  of  dissolv- 
ing reason  which  makes  reality  a  dream  and  the  dream  a  reality, 
in  essence  the  quality  of  uncanniness. 

Let  us  consider  whether  the  same  effect  could  be  achieved 
through  an  experiment  upon  the  language  itself  and  the  mode  of 
narration.  Now  a  prose  which  attempts  to  evoke  the  experience  of 
dreaming  by  borrowing  the  method  of  the  dreamwork  must  break 
up  the  structure  of  speech  in  order  to  bring  it  into  a  primitive  sys- 
tem of  thought.  Syntax  has  no  place  in  primary  mental  processes, 
and  such  a  narrative  needs  to  free  itself  from  the  order  and  re- 
striction of  language,  yet  cannot  abandon  it  completely  for  func- 
tional reasons.  Meaning  will  suffer  through  this  treatment,  of 
course,  but  this  is  a  dimension  of  mind  which  is  cut  off  from  the 
higher  mental  faculties,  has  no  reason  of  its  own,  no  order  or 
coherence,  and  for  many  purposes  of  the  writer  the  obscurity  and 
ambiguity  of  this  liberated  prose  will  strengthen  the  analogy  to 
dreaming.  Similarly,  by  abandoning  the  patterns  of  everyday 
speech,  the  writer  can  introduce  phrasing  and  rhythms  which  recall 
the  fluidity  and  merging  forms  of  unconscious  thought  processes. 
Such  a  radical  departure  from  the  spoken  language  can  include 
words,  themselves.  The  dream  can  be  taken  as  a  model  for  bold 
invention  and  license  in  language.  For,  although  it  "speaks  no  lan- 
guage," it  represents  the  word  in  visual  forms  and  symbols  which 
both  mask  and  unmask  the  language  of  waking  life  and  reveal  the 
infinitely  ramified  structure  of  meaning.  The  writer  who  takes  this 
license  of  the  dream  for  himself  can  achieve  dimensions  of  mean- 
ing and  a  richness  of  allusion  unparalleled  in  everyday  speech.  It 
is  unnecessary  to  add  that  these  experiments  upon  the  language 
demand  such  powerful  gifts  of  imagination  in  a  writer  that  they 
have  only  rarely  produced  important  results. 

This  writing  which  bends  the  language,  changes  its  order,  its 
accustomed  phrasing  and  usage,  can  achieve  many  effects  of  its 
own  in  the  representation  of  unconscious  mental  processes,  but 
it  cannot  achieve  the  effect  of  the  uncanny  or  cause  the  reader  to 
experience  the  dreamlike  narrative  as  a  dream.  We  stand  outside 


30  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  the  dream  in  reacting  to  this  writing;  certain  sensory  effects 
of  the  dream  are  induced  in  us,  but  we  are  not  deluded.  Our 
knowledge  that  this  is  unreal  or  that  this  is  a  dream  is  not  even 
momentarily  destroyed.  This  is  because  the  distortions  of  lan- 
guage have  already  stamped  the  experience  as  unreal.  It  is  analo- 
gous to  a  situation  described  by  Freud  in  his  essay  on  "The 
Uncanny."  He  demonstrates  that  the  feeling  which  we  describe 
as  uncanny  is  always  dependent  in  fiction  or  in  life  upon  the 
appearance  of  unreal  events  as  real,  but  when,  as  in  fairy  tales, 
the  setting  and  the  frankly  animistic  character  of  the  events  de- 
part from  the  world  of  reality  from  the  start,  the  feeling  of  un- 
canniness  cannot  be  obtained.  In  the  fairy  tale  or  any  fictional 
form,  which  by  its  setting  or  form  of  presentation,  states  its  unreal 
character,  the  reader  willingly  participates  in  the  delusion.  In  pro- 
ducing the  experience  of  the  uncanny  in  fiction  the  writer  must 
take  care  to  exclude  his  reader's  judgment  and  criticism  and  cause 
him  to  participate  in  the  fictional  delusion  without  a  moment's 
reflection  or  the  exercise  of  consciousness.2 

The  authentic  dream  quality  which  Kafka  achieves  owes  a  large 
part  of  its  effect  to  narrative  devices  which  temporarily  dissolve 
the  reader's  sensory  contact  with  reality  and  cause  him  to  fall  back 
upon  archaic  forms  of  thinking.  Kafka  erases  the  boundaries  be- 
tween reality  and  the  dream;  his  transition  from  one  world  to 
another  is  as  imperceptible  as  the  moment  between  waking  and 
sleeping.  In  much  of  Kafka's  writing  there  is  this  ghostly  treading 
between  two  worlds,  made  all  the  more  sinister  by  the  insubstan- 
tial and  muted  forms  of  reality  and  the  electrifying  clarity  of  the 
delusion  and  the  dream.  The  passage  from  the  ordinary  event  of 
coming  home  from  the  office  and  hanging  up  a  coat  to  the  extraor- 
dinary vision  of  a  monster  occurs  without  an  interval.  In  analogy 
with  the  dream  the  interval  does  not  exist;  it  is  not  remarked  upon 
for  the  same  reason  that  no  man  knows  the  moment  he  falls  asleep, 
loses  this  self  for  the  other  self  in  the  dream,  or  leaves  his  bed  to 
flee  through  hollow  corridors.  In  re-creating  through  the  narrative 
the  psychic  transition  from  waking  to  dreaming,  Kafka  brings  the 
reader  directly  into  the  dream.  He  causes  the  reader  to  suspend 
reason  and  criticism,  to  submit  to  the  delusion,  through  the  simple 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  31 

device  of  juxtaposing  reality  and  the  dream  in  agreement  with 
the  psychic  experience  of  the  emerging  dream. 

The  effect  is  strengthened  when  the  narrative,  as  in  the  stove- 
monster  sequence,  proceeds  to  treat  fantastic  events  as  real  in 
the  same  way  that  events  of  the  dream  are  experienced  as  real 
by  the  dreamer.  The  narrator  did  not  imagine  that  he  saw  a 
monster;  he  saw  it;  and  the  description  of  the  monster  in  fine 
detail  supports  the  delusional  effect  in  much  the  same  way  that 
the  eyewitnesses  of  flying  saucers  support  their  delusions  through 
minute  descriptions  of  the  little  men,  their  clothing,  and  the  size 
and  appearance  of  the  craft. 

Kafka's  use  of  metaphor  must  also  be  considered  in  a  study  of 
his  "dream  technique."  In  the  dream  a  metaphor  is  represented  in 
its  literal  aspect.  In  the  metaphor,  for  example,  it  is  "as  if"  Kafka 
were  a  species  of  vermin;  in  the  story  "Metamorphosis,"  as  in  a 
dream  representation,  he  is  a  noxious  bug.  In  many  places  in 
Kafka's  diaries  we  can  trace  the  evolution  of  a  story  or  details 
of  a  story  from  a  metaphor.  In  "The  Letter  to  My  Father,"  for 
example,  Kafka  has  the  father  answer  his  reproaches  in  an  imagi- 
nary speech  in  which  the  father  says,  "And  there  is  the  fight  of 
the  vermin,  which  not  only  bite,  but  at  the  same  time  suck  the 
blood  on  which  they  live.  .  .  ."  In  the  diaries  he  speaks  of  the 
broken  engagement  with  F.B.  as  "the  tribunal  in  the  hotel,"  and 
employs  other  metaphors  to  represent  his  engagement  as  "an 
arrest,"  himself  as  "a  criminal."  Later,  in  The  Trial,  we  see  the 
concrete  representation  of  these  metaphors  (though  I  do  not  wish 
to  imply  that  the  meaning  of  the  work  is  contained  in  these  meta- 
phors alone).  Similarly  we  can  find  the  genesis  for  the  story  "The 
Burrow"  in  these  remarks  in  his  diary,  October  6,  1915:  "Various 
types  of  nervousness.  I  think  noises  can  no  longer  disturb  me, 
though  to  be  sure  I  am  not  doing  any  work  now.  Of  course,  the 
deeper  one  digs  one's  pit,  the  quieter  it  becomes,  the  less  fearful 
one  becomes,  the  quieter  it  becomes."  In  "The  Burrow"  he  rep- 
resents his  illness,  his  fear  of  life,  in  a  literal  treatment  of  the 
metaphorical  allusion.  The  small,  frightened  animal  has  dug  deep 
into  the  ground,  and  with  cunning  and  ingenuity  he  has  created  a 
labyrinth  in  which  he  is  snug  and  safe  and  which  assures  him 


32  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

escape  in  case  of  danger.  "But  the  most  beautiful  thing  about  my 
burrow  is  the  stillness." 


In  any  circumstances  the  relationship  between  art  and  the 
dream  is  difficult  to  analyze.  The  psychoanalytic  investigator  needs 
to  bear  in  mind  Trilling's  insistence  that  the  dream-art  analogy 
must  be  corrected  to  allow  for  the  artist's  conscious  command  of 
his  fantasy.  He  quotes  Lamb:  "The  .  .  .  poet  dreams  being 
awake.  He  is  not  possessed  by  his  subject  but  he  has  dominion 
over  it." 

Kafka  provides  a  special  case  for  the  study  of  the  relationship 
between  the  dream  and  creative  work.  He  has  given  us  evidence 
that  he  employed  his  dreams  and  the  productions  of  dreamlike 
states  in  his  writing.  In  his  diaries  Kafka  records  a  large  number 
of  his  own  dreams.  Many  of  these  are  terror  dreams,  dreams  of 
torture,  mutilation,  flight  from  attackers,  of  lepers  and  whores  and 
disease,  filth,  excrement;  and  monotonously,  regularly,  dreams  of 
the  father,  the  formidable  opponent  who  cannot  be  conquered 
and  who  cannot  be  escaped.  A  number  of  these  dreams  become 
the  starting  point  for  a  story  or  a  sketch  in  the  diaries,  so  that 
we  can  if  we  wish  examine  the  relationship  between  the  two. 

Like  all  victims  of  recurrent  terror  dreams  Kafka  suffered  from 
insomnia.  He  feared  sleep;  he  feared  his  dreams,  and  the  struggle 
against  sleep  and  the  yearning  for  sleep  was  in  itself  a  repetition 
of  a  lifelong  struggle,  as  if  sleep  had  become  the  formidable 
opponent  who  could  not  be  conquered  and  to  whom  it  was  dan- 
gerous to  submit.  In  a  conversation  with  Janouch  he  says,  "Per- 
haps my  insomnia  only  conceals  a  great  fear  of  death.  Perhaps 
I  am  afraid  that  the  soul — which  in  sleep  leaves  me — will  never 
return.  Perhaps  insomnia  is  only  an  all  too  vivid  sense  of  sin, 
which  is  afraid  of  the  possibility  of  a  sudden  judgment.  Perhaps 
insomnia  is  itself  a  sin.  Perhaps  it  is  a  rejection  of  the  natural." 

He  wrote  at  night.  "Wenn  es  nicht  diese  grauenvollen,  schlaf- 
losen  Ndchte  gabe,  so  wiirde  ich  uberhaupt  nicht  schreiben.  So 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  33 

wird  mir  aber  immer  meine  dunkle  Einzelhaft  bewusst."  But  the 
apparitions  of  the  dream  which  he  fended  off  through  sleepless- 
ness forced  their  way  into  the  fantasies  and  obsessive  thoughts 
which  occupied  him  at  these  times.  These  fantasies  were  them- 
selves very  close  to  dream  productions  and  were  the  sources  of 
a  number  of  stories  and  sketches.  On  one  occasion  Janouch  at- 
tempts to  pin  down  Kafka  on  the  meaning  of  The  Verdict  (the 
short  novel  which  is  also  published  under  the  title  "The  Judg- 
ment"). Kafka,  after  some  embarrassment,  says,  "The  Verdict 
is  the  spectre  of  a  night."  "What  do  you  mean?"  "It  is  a  spectre." 
"And  yet  you  wrote  it,"  Janouch  says.  And  Kafka  replies,  "That 
is  merely  the  verification,  and  so  the  complete  exorcism  of  the 
spectre."  So  that  writing  for  Kafka  was  also  the  rite  and  the  magic 
act  for  the  subduing  of  his  disturbing  visions.  In  another  con- 
versation with  Janouch  he  allies  writing  and  conjuration:  "Das 
Schreiben  ist  eben  eine  Art  von  Geisterbeschworung." 

Kafka  has  left  us  an  extraordinary  record  for  the  study  of  the 
relationships  between  his  dreams  and  dreamlike  fantasies  and  his 
writings.  I  am  particularly  interested  in  the  dream-story  sequences 
in  his  diaries  which  show  us  how  he  worked  with  the  materials 
of  his  own  dreams.  In  each  of  these  we  see  how  the  problem  of 
the  dream  is  taken  up  in  the  waking  state,  and  how  the  elements 
of  the  dream  are  recomposed  in  the  story.  I  have  chosen  certain 
examples  from  the  dream-story  sequences  in  the  diaries  in  order 
to  examine  the  connections  between  the  dream  and  the  story  in 
each  case. 

In  the  examples  which  follow  I  employ  a  method  of  analysis 
which  requires  some  justification  to  begin  with.  I  am  committed, 
of  course,  to  the  psychoanalytic  principle  that  a  dream  or  an 
imaginative  work  cannot  be  fully  analyzed  without  the  associa- 
tions of  the  dreamer  or  the  artist.  In  these  studies  of  the  dream- 
story  sequences  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  the  elements  of  the 
story  which  are  related  to  the  dream  can  be  regarded  as  associa- 
tions to  the  dream,  that  is  that  the  story  takes  up  the  dream 
thoughts,  the  latent  content  of  the  dream,  and  develops  these 
thoughts  in  a  new  composition.  (This  does  not  mean,  of  course, 
that  the  latent  meaning  of  the  dream  is  made  conscious  to  the 


34  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

writer,  or  that  the  story  is  an  explication  of  the  dream  by  the 
writer.)  In  analyzing  the  dream-story  sequences  I  also  make  use 
of  any  other  source  materials,  circumstantial  or  historical,  which 
have  a  demonstrable  relationship  to  the  content  of  the  dream  or 
the  story.  When  Kafka  tells  us  the  circumstances  under  which  the 
dream  is  dreamed  or  the  story  is  written  we  can  assume  a  rela- 
tionship between  these  circumstances  and  the  production  of  a 
dream  or  a  story  which  can  be  safely  employed  in  an  analytic 
investigation.  We  are  justified  in  making  the  same  use  of  a  bio- 
graphical fact  (like  the  relationship  of  Kafka  to  his  father)  when 
this  information  is  required  for  analytic  study.  Similarly,  when 
Kafka  shows  preference  for  a  certain  type  of  imagery  we  can 
regard  this  imagery  as  overdetermined  in  the  psychoanalytic  sense 
and  can  draw  inferences  from  its  use  in  other  writings  which  we 
are  permitted  to  employ  in  the  present  investigation.  So  far  as 
possible  I  have  avoided  any  arbitrary  interpretations  of  symbols. 


THE  WHITE  HORSE  SEQUENCE 

This  sketch  appears  in  Kafka's  diary  on  May  27,  1914.  It  de- 
rives, we  find  out  later  in  the  diary  entry,  from  a  kind  of  threshold 
dream  which  occurs  in  the  moment  before  falling  asleep.  I  will 
report  the  details  later  on.  This  entry  belongs  to  the  period  during 
which  Kafka  was  tormented  with  doubts  about  his  approaching 
engagement  to  F.B.  in  Berlin. 

I  have  chosen  this  sketch  to  begin  with  because  it  is  useful  as 
a  small-scale  model  for  the  study  of  the  transformation  of  dream 
elements  into  a  story.  Following  is  a  condensation  of  the  story: 

The  first  appearance  of  the  white  horse  was  on  an  autumn  aft- 
ernoon in  a  large  but  not  very  busy  street  in  the  city  of  A.  It 
passed  through  the  entranceway  of  a  house  in  whose  yard  a  truck- 
ing company  had  extensive  storerooms;  .  .  .  [The  horse  escaped 
before  the  eyes  of  onlookers  and  made  its  way  undisturbed 
through  the  streets  of  the  city  to  the  outermost  streets  of  the  sub- 
urbs.! It  accommodated  itself  to  the  life  of  the  streets  better  than 
horses  running  alone  usually  do.  Its  slow  pace  could  frighten  no 
one,  it  never  strayed  out  of  the  roadway  or  from  its  own  side  of 
the  street;  when  it  was  obliged  to  stop  for  a  vehicle  coming  out 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  35 

of  a  cross  street,  it  stopped;  had  the  most  careful  driver  been 
leading  it  by  the  halter  it  could  not  have  behaved  more  perfectly. 
Still,  of  course,  it  was  a  conspicuous  sight;  here  and  there  some- 
one stopped  and  looked  after  it  with  a  smile,  a  teamster  in  a  pass- 
ing beer  wagon  jokingly  struck  down  at  the  horse  with  his  whip; 
it  was  frightened  of  course,  and  reared,  but  did  not  quicken  its 
pace. 

It  was  just  this  incident,  however,  that  a  policeman  saw;  he 
went  over  to  the  horse,  who  at  the  very  last  moment  had  tried  to 
turn  off  in  another  direction,  took  hold  of  the  reins  (despite  its 
light  frame  it  wore  the  harness  of  a  dray  horse)  and  said,  though 
in  a  very  friendly  way:  "Whoa!  Now  where  do  you  think  you  are 
running  off  to?"  He  held  on  to  it  for  some  time  in  the  middle  of 
the  road,  thinking  that  the  animal's  owner  would  soon  be  along 
after  the  runaway. 

Kafka  follows  the  unfinished  sketch  with  these  remarks: 

It  has  meaning  but  it  is  weak;  its  blood  flows  thin,  too  far  from 
the  heart.  There  are  still  some  pretty  scenes  in  my  head  but  I  will 
stop  regardless.  Yesterday  the  white  horse  appeared  to  me  for  the 
first  time  before  I  fell  asleep;  I  have  an  impression  of  its  first 
stepping  out  of  my  head,  which  was  turned  to  the  wall,  jumping 
across  me  and  down  from  the  bed  and  then  disappearing.  The 
last  is  unfortunately  not  refuted  by  the  fact  of  my  having  begun 
the  story.  [Italics  mine.  S.F.] 

The  story  of  the  white  horse  is  inspired  by  an  experience  which 
is  not  at  all  uncommon  at  the  moment  of  falling  asleep.  It  belongs 
to  a  group  of  phenomena  which  Freud  describes  in  The  Interpre- 
tation of  Dreams  and  to  which  the  name  "hypnagogic  hallucination" 
was  given.  In  such  instances  a  thought  which  occurs  in  the  moment 
before  falling  asleep  (or  in  a  state  of  fatigue)  is  condensed  and 
given  a  pictorial  representation.  The  mental  processes  which  pro- 
duce this  experience  are  identical  with  those  of  dream  formation, 
and  for  all  practical  purposes  such  phenomena  can  be  regarded 
as  dream  phenomena.  We  can  even  regard  such  experiences  as 
part  of  the  process  of  failing  asleep,  and  the  preliminary  phase  of 
dreaming.  If  the  process  is  not  interrupted  it  would  normally  lead 
to  sleep  and  further  elaboration  of  the  idea  in  a  dream. 

We  know  that  Kafka  warded  off  sleep  because  of  his  anxiety, 
his  fear  of  loss  of  self  and  his  fear  of  his  dreams.  The  vision  of 


36  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  white  horse  appears  to  be  the  preliminary  phase  of  a  dream 
which  was  interrupted.  There  are  many  such  examples  in  Kafka's 
diaries.  He  describes  a  sleepless  night  (Oct.  3,  1911):  "Again 
it  was  the  power  of  my  dreams,  shining  forth  into  wakefulness 
even  before  I  fall  asleep,  which  did  not  let  me  sleep."  And  earlier 
(Oct.  2,  1911):  ".  .  .  So  that  indeed  I  sleep  but  at  the  same 
time  vivid  dreams  keep  me  awake.  I  sleep  alongside  myself,  so 
to  speak,  while  I  myself  must  struggle  with  dreams.  ...  In  short, 
I  spend  the  whole  night  in  that  state  in  which  a  healthy  person 
finds  himself  for  a  short  time  before  really  falling  asleep.  .  .  ." 

Like  any  dream  symbol,  Kafka's  white  horse  must  be  regarded  as 
overdetermined.  On  one  level  the  vision  of  the  white  horse  can  be 
taken  as  the  representation  of  the  dreamer's  conscious  ego  which 
"disappears"  in  the  moment  of  falling  asleep.  We  recall  Kafka's 
own  words  in  describing  his  fear  of  sleep.  "Perhaps  I  am  afraid 
that  the  soul — which  in  sleep  leaves  me — will  never  return." 
Kafka  catches  hold  of  the  white  horse,  figuratively  speaking,  and 
brings  him  back. 

But  in  accordance  with  psychoanalytic  findings  on  the  structure 
of  dream  symbols,  we  should  also  expect  to  find  that  the  white 
horse  satisfies  the  need  for  representation  of  a  preconscious  thought 
or  wish  and  an  instinctual  wish.  The  preconscious  wish  is  not 
difficult  to  establish  if  we  take  the  dream  and  the  story  together. 
It  must  be  the  wish  to  run  away,  to  escape.  (I  will  come  back 
to  the  content  of  this  wish  later.)  This  wish  is  then  translated 
into  pictures  in  which  the  white  horse  steps  out  of  Kafka's  head, 
jumps  across  him  and  disappears.  But  this  idea  is  not  permitted 
further  elaboration  in  a  dream.  The  dream  process  is  interrupted 
and  the  dreamer  rouses  himself.  The  wish  persists  in  the  waking 
state  and  provides  the  motive  for  a  story  in  which  the  wish  to 
escape  is  elaborated.  The  story  makes  use  of  the  dream  imagery 
by  transposing  some  of  the  details.  The  horse  which  stepped  out 
of  Kafka's  head  and  disappeared,  now  steps  out  of  the  entrance- 
way  of  a  house  and  escapes.  All  that  follows  is  an  elaboration  of 
the  theme  "to  run  away." 

To  run  away  from  what?  I  have  already  mentioned  that  the 
white  horse  sequence  occurs  in  the  diaries  during  the  week  which 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  37 

preceded  Kafka's  formal  engagement  to  F.B.  For  months  before 
the  event  Kafka's  diary  is  filled  with  his  doubts  and  his  torments 
about  the  coming  engagement.  Approaching  marriage  exposed 
the  full  strength  of  his  neurotic  conflict.  In  "The  Judgment"  and 
"Metamorphosis,"  in  the  diary  entries  of  this  period  we  see  him 
engaged  in  a  futile  struggle  to  break  the  ties  with  his  father,  to 
become  a  man.  The  demands  upon  his  masculinity  bring  forth 
all  his  doubts  and  his  fears  about  himself.  There  is  revulsion  at 
the  thought  of  sexual  intimacy,  the  sight  of  his  parents'  bed,  the 
prospects  of  his  own  marriage  bed.  "Coitus  as  punishment  for  the 
happiness  of  being  together.  Live  as  ascetically  as  possible,  more 
ascetically  than  a  bachelor,  that  is  the  only  possible  way  for  me 
to  endure  marriage.  But  she?"  (Aug.  14,  1913)  "The  fear  of 
the  connection,  of  passing  into  the  other.  Then  I'll  never  be  alone 
again."  (July  21,  1913)  Thoughts  of  escaping  this  marriage  made 
their  appearance  again  and  again  in  the  diaries  of  this  period. 

The  white  horse  entry  appears  May  27,  1914.  Kafka  leaves  for 
Berlin  on  May  30  to  celebrate  his  engagement  to  F.B.  On  June  6 
he  describes  the  engagement:  "Back  from  Berlin.  Was  tied  hand 
and  foot  like  a  criminal.  Had  they  sat  me  down  in  a  corner  bound 
in  real  chains,  placed  policemen  in  front  of  me  and  let  me  look 
on  simply  like  that,  it  could  not  have  been  worse.  And  that  was 
my  engagement.  .  .  ." 

The  connections  between  the  fantasy  of  a  runaway  horse  and 
the  dreaded  engagement  are  very  clear.  In  the  fantasy  the  Kafka 
horse  makes  its  escape  and  proceeds  unhindered  through  the 
streets  of  the  city.  In  the  suburbs  Kafka  allows  a  policeman  to 
take  hold  of  the  reins  and  bring  the  runaway  horse  to  a  halt,  as 
if  in  acknowledgment  of  his  own  inescapable  fate  which  waits  in 
another  city,  the  engagement  in  Berlin.  The  imagery  of  "arrest" 
is  employed  in  stronger  form  in  Kafka's  description  of  his  formal 
engagement  a  week  later.  Here  he  is  caught  after  trying  to  escape 
like  the  unhappy  horse,  "tied  hand  and  foot  like  a  criminal,"  and 
completes  the  picture  of  an  arrest  with  metaphorical  policemen 
and  chains.  These  metaphors  appealed  to  him  and  we  find  them 
used  again  in  The  Trial  which  begins  with  the  arrest  of  Joseph  K. 


38  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

There,  too,  among  other  meanings  of  this  complex  symbol,  "the 
arrest"  stands  for  the  engagement,  the  surrender  of  freedom. 

All  of  this  provides  one  useful  piece  of  information  in  our 
investigation  of  Kafka's  use  of  a  dream  element  in  the  composi- 
tion of  a  story.  It  is  this:  One  of  the  wish  motives  of  the  dream 
represented  by  the  escaping  horse  persists  in  the  waking  state,  and 
finds  its  connections  again  with  a  problem  in  reality,  the  approach- 
ing marriage.  Kafka  then  employs  the  dream  imagery,  the  escaping 
white  horse,  for  a  fantasy  in  which  the  wish  to  escape  from  mar- 
riage is  presented  in  disguised  form. 

But  then  we  need  to  ask,  "Why  didn't  this  wish  pursue  its 
course  in  a  dream?"  We  have  established  a  motive  for  a  work 
of  the  imagination  but  we  haven't  explained  why  this  work  should 
take  place  in  consciousness  or  why  it  should  not  take  place  in  a 
dream. 

We  are  on  safe  grounds  psychoanalytically  if  we  make  the  in- 
ference that  the  dream  process  was  broken  off  because  tne  white 
horse  was  also  the  symbol  of  a  repressed  wish  which  could  not  be 
liberated  in  a  dream  without  creating  anxiety  in  the  dreamer.  The 
danger  is  not  presented  by  the  preconscious  wish  to  escape.  We 
know  this  not  only  from  the  theory  of  dreams  but  from  the  evi- 
dence of  the  story  which  Kafka  writes.  If  it  were  dangerous  to 
wish  to  escape  from  marriage  the  story  would  not  be  written 
either.  The  danger  must  come  from  a  deeper  layer  of  this  conflict 
over  marriage,  from  the  instinctual  side  of  the  horse  symbol.  For 
like  any  dream  symbol  the  white  horse  is  the  representation  of  an 
instinctual  wish  as  well  as  the  preconscious  wish  which  we  have 
discerned.  Since  the  two  wishes  are  fused  in  the  dream  symbol, 
the  fate  of  the  preconscious  wish  will  be  bound  to  that  of  the 
instinctual  wish.  If  the  instinctual  wish  is  regarded  as  dangerous 
by  the  dreamer's  ego  the  dream  process  will  be  interrupted  and 
the  secondary  wish  will  automatically  be  subjected  to  the  same 
fate. 

But  now  a  crucial  argument  can  be  raised.  If  all  this  is  so 
why  shouldn't  the  same  conditions  have  affected  the  writing  of  a 
story?  Theoretically  if  the  repressed  wish  were  to  attempt  to  break 
through  into  consciousness  during  the  writing  of  the  story,  the 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  39 

ego  would  again  defend  against  the  danger,  an  inhibition  would 
be  set  up  which  would  affect  the  secondary  wish  "to  escape"  in 
the  same  way  as  in  the  dream,  and  the  whole  process  of  associ- 
ated ideas  would  be  subjected  to  the  fate  of  the  instinctual  wish; 
it  would  be  broken  off.  In  this  case  a  story  could  not  be  written 
either! 

My  interest  in  this  point  is  not  academic,  of  course.  I  think 
we  really  need  to  examine  the  fate  of  the  instinctual  wish  in 
order  to  find  out  why  a  wish  can  be  elaborated  in  a  conscious 
fantasy  and  not  in  a  dream,  why  a  man  writes  a  story  about  a 
horse  instead  of  dreaming  about  a  horse.  But  this  line  of  investi- 
gation poses  its  own  problems.  If  the  wish  is  repressed  how  are 
we  to  know  what  it  is?  Since  the  dreamer  in  this  case  cannot 
give  his  co-operation  in  analyzing  his  dream  we  will  attempt  to 
use  the  next  best  means  and  see  if  details  of  the  story  of  the 
white  horse  can  provide  "associations"  which  lead  us  to  the  re- 
pressed wish  as  well  as  the  preconscious  wish  to  escape. 

We  know  that  in  any  case  (outside  psychosis)  a  repressed  idea 
will  not  emerge  into  consciousness  in  its  naked,  primal  sense  but 
will  become  known  to  us  through  the  defenses  which  the  ego  has 
set  up  to  prevent  it  from  becoming  conscious.  If  the  story  of  the 
white  horse  has  its  genesis  in  a  dream  the  story  will  reveal  the 
repressed  wish  of  the  dream  through  defense. 

Now  the  special  attribute  of  Kafka's  white  horse  in  the  story 
is  its  irreproachable  conduct.  It  is  a  runaway  horse  which  does 
not  behave  like  a  runaway  horse.  "Its  slow  pace  could  frighten 
no  one.  .  .  .  Had  the  most  careful  driver  been  leading  it  by  the 
halter  it  could  not  have  behaved  more  perfectly."  The  emphasis 
throughout  the  story  upon  the  good  conduct  and  restraint  of  this 
horse  would  suggest  that  it  is  just  this  which  we  should  regard  as 
defense.  More  specifically,  a  quality  of  a  runaway  horse,  its  un- 
controlled, instinctual  quality  has  been  transformed  in  this  story 
into  its  opposite;  it  is  under  control,  master  of  itself,  even  though 
it  is  unbridled.  I  would  suggest,  then,  that  the  danger  in  the  dream 
was  instinctual  danger,  as  represented  in  the  symbol,  "a  runaway 
horse,"  that  the  animal  was  the  representative  of  erotic  and  ag- 
gressive urges  which  could  not  be  liberated  in  the  dream  without 


40  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

creating  anxiety  in  the  dreamer.  This  danger  would  provide  the 
motive  for  interruption  of  the  dream  process  and  the  process  of 
falling  asleep  so  that  neither  the  instinctual  wish  nor  the  precon- 
scious  wish  "to  escape"  are  capable  of  further  elaboration  in  the 
dream. 

In  the  story  of  the  white  horse  we  see  how  the  product  of  a 
conscious  fantasy  has  certain  advantages  over  a  dream.  The  story 
can  make  use  of  the  horse  as  a  symbol  for  the  wish  to  run  away 
because  the  conscious  ego  can  effect  a  compromise  which  permits 
the  elaboration  of  the  preconscious  wish  and  abolishes  the  inter- 
ference of  the  instinctual  wish.  The  dangerous  aspects  of  the 
symbol,  "a  runaway  horse,"  are  transformed  through  defense,  the 
horse  loses  his  quality  as  a  representative  of  instinctual  urges  and 
acquires  other  qualities  which  we  attribute  to  the  ego.  When  the 
horse  has,  in  this  way,  been  made  compatible  with  Kafka's  own 
ego,  the  creative  imagination  is  free  to  elaborate  the  preconscious 
wish  of  the  dream.  The  horse  is  now  the  representative  of  the 
ego  and  is  employed  for  a  fantasy  based  on  Kafka's  conflict  about 
his  coming  engagement. 

We  see  that  the  conscious  ego  has  great  advantages  over  the 
dreamer's  ego  in  warding  off  danger.  We  know  that  in  sleep  there 
is  a  redistribution  of  psychic  energy  which  accounts  for  the  in- 
crease in  the  strength  of  id  impulses  which  push  upwards  and  a 
corresponding  decrease  in  the  energy  which  serves  repression.  The 
dreamwork,  too,  achieves  compromises  and  disguises  which  insure 
the  continuation  of  sleep  but  when  impulses  of  an  intolerable 
strength  are  liberated  in  the  course  of  sleep  the  ego  may  be  un- 
able to  deal  with  them  in  any  other  way  except  to  break  off 
sleep.  But  the  conscious  ego  is  far  better  able  to  deal  with  such 
conflicts.  First  of  all,  the  shift  from  sleeping  to  waking  is  accom- 
panied by  a  shift  in  energy,  so  that  the  instinctual  impulses  which 
disturbed  the  sleep  are  deprived  of  the  powerful  reinforcements 
which  they  obtained  in  sleep,  while  the  ego  regains  the  energy 
of  which  it  was  divested  in  sleep.  Second,  the  conscious  ego  is 
equipped  so  that  it  can  regulate  the  relationships  between  mental 
systems  and  permit  the  amount  of  gratification  and  the  degree 
and  kind  of  restriction  that  is  compatible  with  reality  and  con- 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  41 

science.  And  this,  I  believe,  is  the  reason  why  Kafka  could  write 
stories  when  he  could  not  sleep,  why  he  needed  to  dream  while 
awake,  why  many  of  his  stories  are  the  sequels  to  unfinished 
dreams.  The  dream  thoughts  in  such  instances  could  be  com- 
pleted only  when  the  conscious  ego  could  exercise  control  over 
their  destinies. 

In  analyzing  this  sketch  and  reconstructing  the  motives  for  the 
dream  production  and  the  story,  I  have  not  intended,  of  course, 
to  leave  the  impression  that  Kafka  deliberately  and  consciously 
employed  these  mechanisms  to  achieve  his  story.  Nor  do  I  think 
he  became  aware  of  the  deeper  significance  of  his  horse  symbol 
and  consciously  effected  its  disguise.  While  writing  is  a  conscious 
act,  the  elaboration  of  a  fantasy  is  to  a  large  degree  the  product 
of  preconscious  mental  activity.  If,  for  example,  the  deeper  sig- 
nificance of  the  white  horse  were  to  become  known  to  Kafka  in 
the  course  of  his  fantasying,  this  knowledge  would  inhibit  the 
elaboration  of  the  fantasy,  and  the  pleasure  gain  through  disguise 
would  be  lost.  It  is  usually  only  upon  reflection  and  following 
the  production  of  a  fantasy  that  some  hidden  (but  not  repressed) 
elements  of  a  fantasy  can  be  identified  by  their  author.  This  is 
why  Kafka  could  say  some  months  after  the  writing  of  the  Door- 
keeper Legend,  and  while  he  was  visiting  with  F.B.,  that  "the 
significance  of  the  story  dawned  upon  me  for  the  first  time.  .  .  ." 
(He  does  not  tell  us,  however,  what  he  thought  the  story  signified.) 

The  mental  processes  through  which  the  white  horse  fantasy 
was  achieved  could  not  have  been  known  to  Kafka.  Why  the  white 
horse  should  be  docile  and  well-behaved  is  a  matter  of  no  concern 
to  Kafka  or  any  writer.  He  needs  to  be  that  way  or  there  cannot 
be  a  story. 

We  have  seen,  then,  that  Kafka's  story  of  the  white  horse  is 
an  elaboration  of  one  of  the  wish  motives  of  the  dream,  the  pre- 
conscious wish  to  escape.  The  story  can  be  regarded  as  "an  asso- 
ciation" to  the  dream,  in  that  the  dreamer,  now  awake,  finds  a 
connection  between  one  of  the  elements  of  the  dream  and  an 
event  in  current  experience  or  the  remembered  past.  The  re- 
pressed motive  of  the  dream  does  not  become  conscious  and  is 
not  manifest  in  the  story  except  through  defense,  in  which  case 


42  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  original  wish  is  transformed  into  its  opposite,  and  its  identity 
would  be  concealed  from  its  author.  (I  want  to  emphasize  that 
Kafka  was  probably  not  more  capable  than  other  men  in  making 
conscious  the  repressed  portions  of  his  dreams  and  utilizing  them 
in  a  fresh  composition.)  The  preconscious  wish  "to  escape"  could 
be  elaborated  in  a  conscious  fantasy  although  it  was  withdrawn 
from  elaboration  in  a  dream,  an  accomplishment  which  we  attri- 
bute to  the  conscious  ego.  For  the  conscious  ego  could  abolish 
the  interference  of  the  instinctual  wish  through  defensive  measures 
which  the  dreamer  lacked 


THE  DREAM  OF  THE  LETTER  AND 
THE  MERCHANT  MESSNER  SKETCH 

In  the  diary  entry  for  November  24,  1913  (also  during  the 
period  of  struggle  against  marriage  with  F.B.),  Kafka  records  a 
dream  which  is  followed  by  a  story  in  which  certain  elements  of 
the  dream  are  employed. 

The  dream:  I  am  sitting  in  the  garden  of  a  sanatorium  at  a 
long  table,  at  the  very  head,  and  in  the  dream  I  actually  see  my 
back.  It  is  a  gloomy  day,  I  must  have  gone  on  a  trip  and  am  in  an 
automobile  that  arrived  a  short  time  ago,  driving  up  in  a  curve 
to  the  front  of  the  platform.  They  are  just  about  to  bring  in  the 
food  when  I  see  one  of  the  waitresses,  a  young  delicate  girl  wear- 
ing a  dress  the  color  of  autumn  leaves,  approaching  with  a  very 
light  or  unsteady  step  through  the  pillared  hall  that  served  as  the 
porch  of  the  sanatorium,  and  going  down  into  the  garden.  I  don't 
yet  know  what  she  wants  but  nevertheless  point  questioningly  at 
myself  to  learn  whether  she  wants  me.  And  in  fact  she  brings  me 
a  letter.  But  I  open  it  and  a  great  number  of  thin  sheets  covered 
with  writing  come  out,  all  of  them  in  the  strange  handwriting. 
I  think,  this  can't  be  the  letter  I'm  expecting,  it  is  a  very  thin  let- 
ter and  a  strange,  thin,  unsure  handwriting.  I  begin  to  read,  leaf 
through  the  pages  and  recognize  that  it  must  be  a  very  important 
letter  and  apparently  from  F.'s  youngest  sister.  I  eagerly  begin  to 
read,  then  my  neighbor  on  the  right,  I  don't  know  whether  man 
or  woman,  probably  a  child,  looks  down  over  my  arm  at  the  let- 
ter. I  scream,  "No!"  The  round  table  of  nervous  people  begins  to 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  43 

tremble.  I  have  probably  caused  a  disaster.  I  attempt  to  apologize 
with  a  few  hasty  words  in  order  to  go  on  with  the  reading.  I  bend 
over  my  letter  again,  only  to  wake  up  without  resistance,  as  if 
awakened  by  my  own  scream.  With  complete  awareness  I  force 
myself  to  fall  asleep  again,  the  scene  reappears,  in  fact  I  quickly 
read  two  or  three  more  misty  lines  of  the  letter,  nothing  of  which 
I  remember,  and  lose  the  dream  in  further  sleep. 

The  story:  In  the  story  which  follows  the  dream  entry  in  the 
diary,  the  dream  details  of  "a  message"  and  "an  interruption"  are 
brought  together  again.  Following  is  a  summary  of  the  sketch: 
The  old  merchant  Messner,  laboriously  ascending  the  stairs  to 
his  room,  is  confronted  by  a  young  man  who  has  stationed  himself 
in  a  dark  corner.  The  merchant  "still  groaning  from  the  exertion 
of  his  climb"  demands  to  know  who  this  is  and  what  he  wants. 
The  young  man  introduces  himself  as  a  student  named  Kette. 
He  has  come  to  deliver  a  message  to  the  merchant.  The  student 
wishes  to  discuss  the  message  in  Messner's  room.  Messner  ob- 
stinately refuses.  "I  do  not  receive  guests  at  night."  If  the  student 
wishes  to  give  him  the  message  he  can  give  it  now,  in  the  hall. 
The  student  protests.  The  merchant  dismisses  him  curtly.  He  is 
not  interested  in  the  message.  "Every  message  that  I  am  spared 
is  a  gain.  I  am  not  curious."  He  enters  his  room,  locks  the  door 
upon  the  protesting  Kette.  A  moment  later  there  is  a  persistent 
knocking  on  the  door.  "The  knocking  came  the  way  children  at 
play  scatter  their  knocks  over  the  whole  door,  now  down  low, 
dull  against  the  wood,  now  up  high,  clear  against  the  glass."  The 
merchant  approaches  the  door  a  stick  in  hand.  "Is  anyone  still 
out  there?"  "Yes.  Please  open  the  door  for  me."  Messner  opens 
the  door  and  advances  toward  the  student  with  his  stick.  "Don't 
hit  me,"  the  student  warns  him.  "Then  go!"  The  merchant  points 
his  finger  at  the  stair.  "But  I  can't,"  said  the  student  and  ran  up 
to  Messner  so  surprisingly.  .  .  .  The  story  breaks  off  here,  just 
as  the  dream  breaks  off  at  the  point,  "I  have  probably  caused  a 
disaster"  and  with  the  dreamer's  hasty  apology. 

Certain  elements  of  the  dream  reappear  in  the  story.  In  the 
dream  someone,  "probably  a  child,"  interrupts  the  reading  of  the 
important  message,  invades  the  privacy  of  the  dreamer  through 


44  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

spying  upon  the  letter.  In  the  story  a  young  student  interrupts  the 
old  man,  creates  a  disturbance  late  at  night,  disturbs  the  privacy 
of  the  merchant.  The  connection  between  the  child  in  the  dream 
and  the  student  is  further  suggested  by  the  knocking  on  the  door 
in  the  story  which  is  likened  to  the  knocking  of  children  at  play. 
The  antagonists  in  the  dream,  the  dreamer  and  a  child,  become 
the  merchant  Messner  and  the  student  Kette.  The  "merchant"  is 
a  familiar  character  in  Kafka's  writings.  He  is  Kafka's  merchant 
father.  Kette,  chain,  might  signify  the  bond  which  tied  Kafka  to  his 
father.  (See  also  Kafka's  own  analysis  of  the  name  Georg  Bende- 
man  in  The  Verdict  in  which  he  identifies  Bende  with  bonds,  the 
bonds  between  father  and  son.  Diaries,  I,  p.  278.)  The  symbolism 
becomes  clear.  The  chain,  the  bonds  which  tie  father  and  son 
cannot  be  severed.  Here  the  link  to  F.B.  in  the  dream  is  seen, 
for  Kafka  himself  understood  and  explicitly  stated  in  his  diaries 
and  his  own  analysis  of  The  Verdict  that  it  was  the  tie  between 
himself  and  his  father  which  made  marriage  with  F.B.  impossible. 

The  message  in  the  dream  is  contained  in  the  letter,  but  it  is  a 
message  which  is  not  received,  so  to  speak,  because  of  the  inter- 
ruption. When  the  dreamer  returns  to  it  after  waking  he  can 
read  a  few  more  "misty  lines,"  none  of  which  he  remembers,  then 
loses  the  dream  in  further  sleep.  In  the  story,  too,  the  message 
is  never  delivered.  The  merchant  does  not  want  to  hear  it.  (In 
both  instances  the  nature  of  the  message  is  not  known.)  The 
letter,  the  message,  seem  to  belong  to  the  group  of  "lost  com- 
munication" symbols  in  Kafka's  writing  which  were  mentioned 
earlier,  and  are  analogous,  particularly,  to  the  telephones  in  The 
Castle.  They  are  failures  in  human  connections,  of  course,  here 
represented  in  the  dream  by  the  symbol  of  a  letter  from  a  woman 
and  in  the  story  by  the  message  for  the  man.  His  life  conflict  is 
delineated  in  these  terms.  He  cannot  receive  a  woman's  love  (he 
cannot  read  the  letter  in  the  dream)  and  he  cannot  give  his  love 
to  a  man  (the  thwarted  message  for  Messner  in  the  story). 

In  examining  the  connections  between  the  dream  and  the  story 
we  should  give  our  attention  to  those  details  which  are  most  highly 
charged  with  feeling.  In  the  dream  it  is  the  interruption,  the  in- 
vasion  of  privacy   and   the   "no"  which  create  anxiety  in  the 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  45 

dreamer.  These  details  must  be  highly  overdetermined  in  the  dream 
with  threads  leading  to  the  dream  day  and  current  experience  and 
other  threads  leading  back  to  infantile  experience.  It  is  possible 
that  these  details  represent  (among  many  other  things)  the  con- 
flict over  marriage  which  was  uppermost  in  Kafka's  thoughts  dur- 
ing this  period.  For  Kafka  saw  marriage  as  an  invasion  of  his 
privacy,  "then  I'll  never  be  alone  again,"  and  an  interference  with 
his  writing,  "But  then  would  it  not  be  at  the  expense  of  my  writing? 
Not  that,  not  that!"  (Both  quotations  are  from  his  "Summary  of 
all  the  arguments  for  and  against  my  marriage,"  July  21,  1913.) 
But  also  he  desired  this  marriage  and  in  his  list  of  arguments 
there  is  one  in  favor  of  marriage,  "Inability  to  bear  life  alone."  I 
think,  then,  that  these  thoughts  made  their  way  into  the  dream 
details.  He  is  "eager"  to  read  the  letter  which  has  a  connection 
with  F.  but  "someone"  interferes,  invades  his  privacy,  and  his 
cry  of  "no!"  is  the  vehement  protest  against  marriage,  the  inva- 
sion of  his  privacy,  the  interference  with  his  work. 

But  these  interpretations  would  account  only  for  those  motives 
in  the  dream  which  are  provided  by  a  current  conflict.  These  de- 
tails must  also  have  threads  which  lead  back  into  infantile  experi- 
ence. In  an  early  draft  of  this  paper  I  attempted  to  reconstruct  a 
childhood  memory  from  these  details  which  I  could  not  support 
on  any  basis  except  clinical  experience  in  dream  interpretation. 
While  such  tentative  constructions  are  allowable  in  psychoanalytic 
investigation  the  test  of  validation  is  provided  by  the  live  patient 
or  subject  of  the  investigation,  i.e.,  the  patient  will  confirm  or 
not  confirm  the  analyst's  construction.  In  this  case,  it  seemed,  the 
subject  of  my  investigation  could  never  offer  the  necessary  con- 
firmation. His  diaries  and  recollections  provided  me  with  nothing 
more  specific  for  my  purposes,  and  while  I  thought  I  found  evi- 
dence in  certain  of  his  writings,  the  use  of  imaginative  works  for 
"evidence"  could  bring  forth  the  same  criticism  as  the  use  of 
dream  details  for  "evidence."  We  still  don't  know  if  it  really  hap- 
pened. So,  in  this  earlier  draft  I  wrote  in  a  tentative  construction 
based  on  these  dream  details  which  read  as  follows:  "The  details 
in  the  dream  suggest  a  crisis  in  childhood,  an  interruption  by  a 
child,  an  invasion  of  privacy,  and  a  severe  prohibition  represented 


46  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

by  the  'no!' — an  early  disaster  which  caused  a  small  child  to  trem- 
ble in  fear."  (In  the  dream  reversal  "the  round  table  of  nerv- 
ous people  began  to  tremble.")  I  could  not  pursue  this  further  and 
I  was  also  bothered  by  the  fact  that  the  connecting  links  between 
the  dream  details,  my  reconstruction,  and  the  Messner-Kette  story 
could  not  be  clearly  established. 

Last  year  the  text  of  Kafka's  "Letter  to  My  Father"  was  pub- 
lished in  full  for  the  first  time.  In  a  long  outpouring  of  old  griefs 
and  reproaches  there  is  one  memory  to  which  Kafka  himself  at- 
tached the  greatest  importance  and  which  provided  unexpected 
confirmation  of  my  construction  and  the  connecting  links  between 
the  dream  and  the  Messner-Kette  story. 

There  is  only  one  episode  in  the  early  years  of  which  I  have  a 
direct  memory.  You  may  remember  it,  too.  Once  in  the  night  I 
kept  on  whimpering  for  water,  not,  I  am  certain,  because  I  was 
thirsty,  but  probably  partly  to  be  annoying,  partly  to  amuse  my- 
self. After  several  vigorous  threats  had  failed  to  have  any  effect, 
you  took  me  out  of  bed,  carried  me  out  onto  the  pavlatche  (a 
balcony)  and  left  me  there  alone  for  a  while  in  my  nightshirt, 
outside  the  shut  door.  I  am  not  going  to  say  this  was  wrong — 
perhaps  at  the  time  there  was  really  no  other  way  of  getting  peace 
and  quiet  that  night — but  I  mention  it  as  typical  of  your  methods 
of  bringing  up  a  child  and  their  effect  on  me.  I  dare  say  I  was 
quite  obedient  afterwards  at  that  period,  but  it  did  me  inner 
harm.  What  was  for  me  a  matter  of  course,  that  senseless  asking 
for  water,  and  the  extraordinary  terror  of  being  carried  outside, 
were  two  things  that  I,  my  nature  being  what  it  was,  could  never 
properly  connect  with  each  other.  Even  years  afterwards  I  suf- 
fered from  the  tormenting  fancy  that  the  huge  man,  my  father, 
the  ultimate  authority,  would  come  almost  for  no  reason  at  all 
and  take  me  out  of  bed  in  the  night  and  carry  me  out  onto  the 
pavlatche,  and  that  therefore  I  was  such  a  mere  nothing  for  him. 

This  memory  has  made  its  way  into  the  dream  and  the  story.  I 
would  like  to  propose  from  the  evidence  of  Kafka's  recorded 
dreams  and  his  stories  that  this  experience  was  not  the  only  one 
in  which  he  disturbed  his  father  at  night  with  disastrous  conse- 
quences, for  the  theme  of  sexual  observation  occurs  repeatedly  in 
Kafka's  dreams  and  his  writings.  But  he  is  probably  truthful  in 
saying  that  this  episode  is  the  only  one  of  his  early  years  of  which 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  47 

he  has  a  direct  memory,  for  such  infantile  sexual  scenes  as  I  have 
inferred  from  the  material  ordinarily  undergo  repression.  It  is 
even  probable  that  Kafka's  memory  of  the  disturbance  at  night 
which  he  describes  obtained  its  dreadful  proportions  in  his  child's 
eyes  from  an  earlier  interruption  the  memory  of  which  was  re- 
pressed. We  would  then  regard  the  memory  which  was  retained 
in  consciousness  as  a  screen  memory,  that  is,  certain  qualities  of 
the  repressed  experience  are  displaced  onto  the  later,  more  inno- 
cent interruption  at  night,  the  one  that  survives  in  memory. 

But  for  our  purposes  here  we  can  work  best  with  the  memory 
which  Kafka  has  given  us,  the  crisis  at  night  which  led  to  the 
forceful  eviction  of  a  small  boy  and  the  punishment  of  being  locked 
out  on  a  balcony.  For  it  is  very  clear  that  Kafka  has  written  into 
the  Messner-Kette  story  the  scene  of  this  childhood  calamity,  the 
disturbance  at  night  which  provoked  his  father's  anger.  The  de- 
tails are  there:  the  interruption  at  night,  the  student's  plea  to  be 
heard,  to  deliver  the  message,  the  merchant's  angry  refusal,  the 
locking  out  of  the  intruder,  the  persistent  demands  of  the  student, 
the  menacing  reappearance  of  the  merchant,  with  the  command 
to  leave  and  the  student's  last  protest.  With  very  few  changes  the 
story  of  the  childhood  crisis  is  retold.  The  conflict  between  a 
small  boy  and  his  father  becomes  a  conflict  between  two  strangers, 
an  older  man  and  a  student,  aptly  named  Messner  and  Kette.  It 
is  a  compact  statement  of  the  idea  that  the  conflict  between  father 
and  son  persists  unchanged  in  the  adult  years  of  the  son.  The 
story  is  unfinished.  It  breaks  off  when  the  merchant  commands 
the  student  to  leave.  "  'But  I  can't,'  said  the  student  and  ran  up 
to  Messner  so  surprisingly.  .  .  ."  We  are  reminded  of  the  dream 
now  which  ends  abruptly  at  the  point,  "I  have  probably  caused  a 
disaster,"  and  with  the  dreamer's  hasty  apology. 

Now  I  think  we  can  understand  the  relationship  between  the 
dream  of  the  letter  and  the  story.  It  is  as  if  the  dreamer  takes  up 
the  problem  of  the  dream  in  the  waking  state,  searches  for  its 
meaning,  and  comes  up  with  a  memory,  an  association  to  one 
of  the  dream  elements.  It  is  probable  that  the  dream  details  of 
the  interruption  by  the  child,  the  cry  "No!"  and  the  observation, 
"I  have  probably  caused  a  disaster,"  those  details  which  are  highly 


48  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

charged  with  feeling,  lead  the  dreamer's  waking  associations  back 
to  the  event  in  childhood.  The  story  then  makes  use  of  the  mem- 
ory, recasts  and  resets  it  as  the  encounter  between  the  merchant 
Messner  and  the  student  Kette. 

But  then  we  need  to  ask,  "What  is  the  motive  in  writing  the 
story,  or,  more  exactly,  in  putting  this  memory  into  the  form  of 
a  story?"  By  doing  this  Kafka  attempts  to  get  rid  of  the  painful 
effects  of  this  memory  through  repetition,  through  experiencing  it 
once  again  in  order  to  overcome  it.  He  gives  the  childhood  event 
a  second  existence  in  the  story.  The  original  conflict  led  to  dis- 
aster because  the  antagonists  were  a  small  boy  and  his  powerful 
father.  In  the  new  edition  he  tries  out  the  event  once  again  with 
the  antagonists  a  young  man  and  an  old  and  wheezing  merchant 
as  if  this  time  there  might  be  hope  for  a  different  outcome.  But 
the  young  man  is  defeated  by  the  old  man  once  again  as  if  the 
problem  can  find  no  solution  in  the  imagination  either. 

We  have  seen  the  connections  between  details  in  the  dream,  a 
memory,  and  a  story,  but  in  reading  the  story  of  Messner-Kette 
we  feel  that  in  the  process  of  reworking  these  details  into  a  story 
something  got  lost.  There  is  an  emptiness  in  this  story  which  we 
cannot  immediately  account  for  when  we  consider  its  source  in 
a  dream  and  a  memory  which  were  highly  charged  with  emotion. 
Now  the  effect  of  this  story  is  certainly  intended  by  Kafka;  it  is 
satirical,  absurd,  and  its  author  is  saying,  Here  is  a  spectacle  for 
you!  A  young  man  and  an  aging  man  are  like  a  small  boy  and  his 
father,  but  the  old  man  still  has  his  power  and  the  young  man 
is  still  a  weakling,  a  child  who  whimpers  at  night  outside  his 
father's  room.  But  even  the  irony  is  weakened  in  this  story  by 
the  absence  of  any  emotional  quality. 

It  seems  that  in  the  process  of  utilizing  a  dream  detail  and  a 
memory  in  a  story  the  ideational  content  was  preserved  but  the 
emotional  content  was  lost.  We  have  already  mentioned  as  one 
of  the  advantages  of  a  conscious  fantasy  over  a  dream  that  the 
conscious  ego  can  control  the  quantities  of  affect  and  can  admit 
into  consciousness  only  those  quantities  which  can  be  tolerated. 
It  is  even  possible  for  the  ego  to  permit  a  fantasy  or  a  memory 
to  emerge  into  consciousness  while  its  accompanying  affects  are 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  49 

held  back  by  the  repressive  mechanisms.  In  this  way  once  painful 
memories  appear  in  consciousness  as  empty  or  disembodied  im- 
ages, ghosts  of  themselves  which  hold  no  real  terror  because  they 
are  not  alive,  are  not  animated  by  the  original  full  charge  of 
energy.  Similarly,  the  grossest,  the  most  naked  sensual  fantasies 
can  be  admitted  to  conscious  expression  if  they  are  deprived  of 
their  accompanying  affects.  The  quality  of  the  mental  production 
is  then  altered  accordingly  so  that  the  fantasy  seems  dead,  unreal. 

Now  this  is  a  quality  which  appears  very  strongly  in  Kafka's 
writings.  Think  of  the  torture  in  "In  the  Penal  Colony,"  the  scene, 
"The  Whippers,"  in  The  Trial.  The  detachment  which  accom- 
panies these  descriptions  is  the  mental  quality  of  the  writer  who 
admitted  these  awful  visions  into  consciousness  by  making  them 
silent,  by  anesthetizing  the  vital  parts.  Only  in  this  way  could  he 
confront  his  specters  without  dread.  Kafka's  people,  the  people 
of  his  stories,  are  the  product  of  this  emotional  isolation.  They 
do  not  live,  they  imitate  the  living.  They  are  human  abstractions 
and  abstractions  of  human  qualities  exactly  as  dream  people  are. 
We  could  never  believe  in  Kafka's  people  if  we  did  not  take  them 
as  dream  people  and  accept  Kafka's  world  as  a  dream  world. 

From  these  ideas  on  the  defenses  against  affect  which  Kafka 
employed  in  his  writing  I  think  I  can  also  deduce  the  reasons 
why  so  many  of  his  stories  are  unfinished.  Frequently  Kafka's 
stories  and  sketches  break  off  at  the  critical  moment,  as  a  dream 
breaks  off  when  a  signal  of  danger  occurs.  It  seems  probable  to 
me  that  at  those  points  in  Kafka's  stories  where  a  strong  emo- 
tion threatens  to  break  through  the  defenses,  the  story  breaks  off. 
We  never  find  out  what  it  was  that  the  student  Kette  was  about  to 
do  or  say  at  the  critical  point  in  the  Messner-Kette  story.  The 
story  breaks  off  just  as  the  dream  breaks  off  and  this  may  be  for 
the  same  reasons. 


4 

In  these  examples  we  see  how  the  story  takes  up  the  problem 
of  the  dream,  how  the  latent  dream  thoughts  are  transformed  in 


50  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  waking  state  and  worked  into  a  new  composition.  The  story 
stands  in  the  same  relationship  to  the  dream  as  a  dreamer's  wak- 
ing associations  to  his  dream  and  its  elements  can  be  regarded 
as  associations  to  the  dream.  There  is  this  difference,  of  course: 
ordinarily  when  a  man  pursues  his  thoughts  in  relation  to  a  dream, 
these  thoughts,  if  they  are  free  associations,  will  emerge  in  a  form- 
less, chaotic  stream.  Now  Kafka  does  bind  these  disordered  ele- 
ments together  in  a  narrative,  but  the  narrative  is  as  indifferent 
to  the  conventions  of  storytelling  as  is  the  manifest  dream.  The 
comparison  between  these  two  should  be  closely  examined.  The 
latent  dream  thoughts  are  themselves  disordered  fragments  and 
what  we  call  the  manifest  dream,  the  "story"  of  the  dream  is  the 
attempt  on  the  part  of  the  dreamwork  to  give  a  semblance  of 
order  and  coherence  to  materials  which  have  no  logical  connec- 
tions and  are  governed  by  primitive  thought  processes.  Freud 
called  this  aspect  of  the  dreamwork  "secondary  elaboration."  The 
resulting  "story"  in  the  dream  when  considered  as  a  composition 
is  loosely  and  often  indifferently  strung  together  in  a  narrative 
which  combines  its  elements  without  regard  for  compatibility,  tem- 
poral sequence  or  the  boundaries  of  space.  (While  many  dreams 
do  present  an  intelligible  facade,  when  we  say  "like  a  dream"  we 
usually  mean  the  disordered  dream,  the  absurd  dream. ) 

Kafka's  stories  in  the  examples  studied  here  are  associations  to 
the  dream  and  are  also  composed  like  the  dream.  The  so-called 
"dream  technique"  is  like  the  dream's  own  method  of  composi- 
tion, the  process  of  secondary  elaboration.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
Kafka  deliberately  employed  this  device  of  the  dream  for  repro- 
ducing the  effect  of  the  dream  in  his  stories.  But  I  think  it  is  also 
true,  as  I  mentioned  earlier,  that  his  gift  in  re-creating  the  dream 
world  in  his  stories  derived  from  illness.  I  want  to  emphasize  that 
I  do  not  think  Kafka  was  psychotic,  but  the  danger  of  psychosis 
was  very  real,  probably  as  real  as  he  feared.  He  never  actually 
lost  touch  with  reality,  never  lost  his  citizenship  in  the  real  world 
even  when  he  pronounced  himself  "a  citizen  of  this  other  world." 
His  writing  must  be  considered  as  his  strongest  bond  to  the  real 
world  and  may  even  be  responsible  for  maintaining  his  contact 
with  reality. 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  51 

I  think  I  can  support  this  last  statement  from  certain  remarks 
of  Kafka  regarding  the  conditions  under  which  he  wrote.  If  it 
were  not  for  the  sleepless  nights  he  would  not  write  at  all,  he 
says.  (This  should  not  be  taken  literally,  of  course,  but  it  is  a 
fact  that  most  of  his  writing  was  the  work  of  these  sleepless  nights 
and  we  have  seen  the  close  connection  between  these  nocturnal 
fantasies  and  the  anxiety  dreams  which  he  warded  off  through 
insomnia.)  He  himself  connects  his  fear  of  sleep  and  his  fear  of 
death.  "Perhaps  I  am  afraid  that  the  soul — which  in  sleep  leaves 
me — will  never  return."  In  psychological  terms,  he  is  afraid  of 
sleep  because  in  sleep  he  loses  the  self,  or  awareness  of  self,  and 
there  is  the  danger  that  he  may  not  recover  it.  This  is  a  common 
fear  in  severe  neuroses,  where  the  danger  of  losing  the  self  and  the 
ties  to  reality  is  real.  This  extreme  peril  to  the  ego  gives  rise  in 
many  serious  neuroses  (and  psychoses  as  well)  to  creative  spells 
in  which  the  ego  attempts  to  counteract  the  loosening  of  its  bonds 
to  reality  by  energetically  recreating  aspects  of  the  objective 
world.  (Ernst  Kris  develops  this  psychoanalytic  idea  in  his  Psy- 
choanalytic Explorations  in  Art,  a  group  of  brilliant  essays  dealing 
with  the  phenomenon  of  restitution  in  art.)  But  the  restitutive 
function  of  art  is  not  confined  to  morbid  states  and  I  feel  that  I 
am  doing  this  psychoanalytic  theory  an  injustice  by  introducing 
it  in  this  context.  In  Kafka's  case,  however,  we  need  the  clinical 
observations  on  restitution  in  order  to  explain  the  function  of 
writing  in  his  neurosis.  Only  one  who  is  in  great  danger  of  losing 
the  self  and  the  real  world  will  fear  sleep  as  Kafka  did.  Ihis„ex- 
plains  why  Kafka  wrote_only  of  himself.  He  needed  to  affirm  and 
"TC^H^h^.unc£rtain  exi§tgnce  in  Jhe  reaT~worTd  through  creating 
images  of-Mmsetfrthrottgh  giving-  himselflajl  existence  on  paper. 
In  this  way.  his  writing  .preserved  his  ties  to  reality. 

The  problem  of  art  and  neurosis  is  often  brought  in  irrelevantly 
to  the  study  of  a  work.  In  Kafka's  writing  the  problem  is  not  only 
relevant  but  it  intrudes  itself  into  the  study  of  his  works.  Wf_ 
cannot_jmderjtand_his  wrjflffjf -  wj%*"t ,  im^erstanding  Jum^and 
this  must^bgjcQn^ted  as  a^fajpure  in-the  ,work.  The  ambiguity  of 
hTslvnting  has  given  rise  to  a  Kafka  criticism  in  which  the  works 
have  stimulated  impressions  and  fantasies  like  the  inkblots  on  the 


52  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Rorschach  test.  With  the  publication  in  recent  years  of  the  Kafka 
notebooks,  letters,  conversations  and  miscellaneous  pieces,  Kafka 
as  Mystic,  Kafka  as  Cabalist,  Kafka  as  Prophet,  Kafka  as  Social 
Critic,  and  a  large  number  of  other  Kafkas  have  receded  and 
we  are  left  to  read  Kafka  as  Joseph  K.  and  as  Gregor  Samsa,  a 
man  who  had  less  to  say  about  the  world  he  lived  in  than  about 
the  world  that  lived  in  him. 

Kafka  offers  himself  and  his  disease  as  a  symbol  which  exer- 
cises an  extraordinary  attraction  in  our  time.  For  mental  illness 
is  the  romantic  disease  of  this  age  just  as  tuberculosis  was  in  the 
past  century.  His  writing  is  expiation,  atonement,  an  extreme  mor- 
tification before  his  human  judges,  and  the  bond  he  creates  between 
himself  and  his  reader  is  in  part  the  bond  of  guilt,  of  uncon- 
scious sin.  But  this  does  not  account  for  his  vogue  during  the  past 
twenty  years.  The  awe  and  mysticism  which  surrounds  the  figure 
of  Kafka  and  his  writings  bring  to  mind  those  feelings  which  are 
aroused  in  us  by  a  premonitory  dream.  When  the  events  of  the 
dream  or  of  inner  life  are  reproduced  in  the  world  of  reality  we 
are  inclined  to  endow  both  the  dream  and  the  dreamer  with  magi- 
cal and  divine  qualities.  The  events  of  our  recent  history  have 
appeared  to  us  like  the  full-scale  performance  of  Kafka's  tor- 
mented dreams.  The  peril  to  our  reason  has  given  a  significance 
to  Kafka's  writings  which,  we  must  grant,  was  not  altogether  his 
intention. 

Kafka  appears,  finally,  as  a  crippled  writer,  a  man  in  whom 
the  disease  and  the  art  were  united  in  a  kind  of  morbid  love  so 
that  neither  could  set  the  other  free.  "Die  Kunst  ist  fiir  den 
Kunstler  ein  Leid,  durch  das  er  sich  fur  ein  neues  held  befreit," 
he  said.  His  writing  represented,  among  other  things,  an  attempt 
to  free  himself  from  neurotic  suffering,  to  repeat  and  to  relive  it 
in  order  to  conquer  it.  But  behind  each  door  with  Kafka  there 
was  another  door,  as  in  the  imagery  of  the  legend  "Before  the 
Law."  An  unending  chain  of  events  led  backward  into  earliest 
times  and  the  conquest  of  danger  and  of  suffering  was  a  succession 
of  battles  in  which  a  new  enemy  grew  in  the  spot  of  the  last  one 
vanquished,  and  the  new  enemy  was  only  a  replica  of  the  one 
who  came  before. 


Kafka  and  the  Dream  53 

The  disease  which  produced  extraordinary  dreams  exerted  its 
morbid  influence  on  the  creative  process  as  well.  The  striving  for 
synthesis,  for  integration  and  harmony  which  are  the  marks  of  a 
healthy  ego  and  a  healthy  art  are  lacking  in  Kafka's  life  and  in 
his  writings.  The  conflict  is  weak  in  Kafka's  stories  because  the 
ego  is  submissive;  the  unequal  forces  within  the  Kafka  psyche 
create  no  tension  within  the  reader,  only  a  fraternal  sadness,  an 
identification  between  a  writer  and  reader  which  takes  place  in 
the  most  solitary  regions  of  the  ego. 


1  Sigmund  Freud,  "The  Uncanny,"  Collected  Papers,  Vol.  IV. 

2  For  another  treatment  of  the  "uncanny"  in  Kafka's  writing,  see  M.  B. 
Hecht,  "Uncanniness,  Yearning  and  Franz  Kafka's  Works,"  Imago  (April, 
1952). 


Marie  Bonaparte 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature 


Before  embarking  on  our  analysis  of  Poe's 
tales,  we  wrote:  "Works  of  art  or  literature  profoundly  reveal 
their  creators'  psychology  and,  as  Freud  has  shown,  their  con- 
struction resembles  that  of  our  dreams.  The  same  mechanisms 
which,  in  dreams  or  nightmares,  govern  the  manner  in  which  our 
strongest,  though  most  carefully  concealed  desires  are  elaborated, 
desires  which  often  are  the  most  repugnant  to  consciousness,  also 
govern  the  elaboration  of  the  work  of  art."  Freud,  in  The  Relation 
of  the  Poet  to  Day-Dreaming  x  has  demonstrated  the  links  which 
bind  the  daydreams  of  adolescents  or  adults — so  nearly  related 
to  the  dreams  of  the  night — to  the  play  activities  of  children;  both 
being  Active  fulfillments  of  wishes.  There,  too,  Freud  shows  how 
daydreams  and  creative  writing  resemble  each  other,  since  the 
latter  gratifies  the  artist's  deepest  infantile,  archaic  and  unconscious 
wishes  in  imaginary  and,  more  or  less,  disguised  form.  Literary 
works  might  thus  be  ranged  according  to  a  scale  of  subjectivity. 
At  one  extreme,  we  should  find  the  writings  of  a  Maupassant  or 
Zola,  works  written  almost  impersonally,  as  it  were,  in  which  the 
author  is  a  spectator  merely  recording  the  panorama  of  existence: 
54 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  55 

such,  so  to  speak,  would  be  works  of  "viewers"  of  genius,  resem- 
bling certain  unusual  forms  of  daydreaming,  however  different,  at 
first  sight,  they  might  seem  from  the  average  night  or  day  dream. 
In  every  case,  however,  we  should  have  to  determine  the  extent 
to  which  the  author's  personality,  split  into  psychic  elements  seek- 
ing to  embody  themselves  in  different  characters,  permits  the 
author  to  re-embody  himself  in  each  of  the  characters  observed. 
So,  too,  in  mythological  subjects,  which  would  seem  a  source  of 
external  inspiration  to  the  dramatist  or  poet,  and  which  represent 
humanity's  collective  phylogenetic  daydreams,  an  author's  onto- 
genetic complexes  will  always  seek  ways  of  expression  in  the 
choice  of  theme  and  its  elaboration. 

It  is  thus  possible,  through  infinite  gradations,  to  pass  from  what 
appear  purely  objective  works  to  others  altogether  subjective, 
which  last  would  seem  the  original  form  of  creative  writing.  In 
this  latter  the  author's  complexes,  more  or  less  masked,  project 
themselves  into  the  work. 

It  is  works  that  are  wholly  subjective,  loaded  with  their  cre- 
ator's unconscious  memories  or,  as  we  would  say,  with  his  com- 
plexes, which  resemble  not  only  adolescent  daydreams  but  even 
the  night  dreams  of  man.  Thus,  at  one  end  of  our  scale  we  might 
place  the  works  of  a  Poe  or  Hoffmann  which  not  only  resemble  the 
dream  in  the  fashion  they  are  elaborated,  but  often  reproduce  the 
shape  and  construction  of  our  nightmares.  Moreover,  addiction  to 
drugs  doubtless  played  its  part  in  the  creations  of  both  men. 

The  deep  infantile  sources  from  which  Poe's  inspiration  was 
drawn  has,  we  trust,  been  made  clear  in  the  earlier  portions  of 
this  study.  It  now  remains  for  us  to  show,  as  in  Poe's  tales,  what 
psychic  mechanisms,  as  such,  generally  govern  the  manner  in 
which  works  of  literature  are  elaborated. 

In  his  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  that  foundation  stone  of 
modern  psychology,  the  only  psychology  worth  the  name,  that 
which  probes  the  unconscious,  Freud,  concluding  his  chapter  on 
dream  elaboration,  wrote: 

It  (the  Dream-Work)  may  be  exhaustively  described  if  we  do 
not  lose  sight  of  the  conditions  which  its  product  must  satisfy. 


56  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

This  product,  the  dream,  has  above  all  to  be  withdrawn  from  the 
censorship,  and  to  this  end  the  dreamwork  makes  use  of  the  dis- 
placement of  psychic  intensities,  even  to  the  transvaluation  of  all 
psychic  values;  thoughts  must  be  exclusively  or  predominantly 
reproduced  in  the  material  of  visual  and  acoustic  memory-traces, 
and  from  this  requirement  there  proceeds  the  regard  of  the 
dream-work  for  representability ,  which  it  satisfies  by  fresh  dis- 
placements. Greater  intensities  have  (probably)  to  be  produced 
than  are  at  the  disposal  of  the  night  dream-thoughts,  and  this 
purpose  is  served  by  the  extensive  condensation  to  which  the  con- 
stituents of  the  dream-thoughts  are  subjected.  Little  attention  is 
paid  to  the  logical  relations  of  the  thought  material;  they  ulti- 
mately find  a  veiled  representation  in  the  formal  peculiarities  of 
the  dream.  The  affects  of  the  dream-thoughts  undergo  slighter 
alterations  than  their  conceptual  content.  As  a  rule,  they  are  sup- 
pressed; where  they  are  preserved,  they  are  freed  from  the  con- 
cepts and  combined  in  accordance  with  their  similarity.  Only  one 
part  of  the  dream-work — the  revision,  variable  in  amount,  which 
is  effected  by  the  partially  awakened  conscious  thought — is  at  all 
consistent  with  the  conception  which  the  writers  on  the  subject 
have  endeavoured  to  extend  to  the  whole  performance  of  dream- 
formation.2 

Starting  from  this  resume  of  the  conditions  which  must  be  sat- 
isfied by  the  dream  product  and  which  imply  the  processes  which 
govern  its  formation,  we  shall  see  that  these  processes,  in  varying 
aspects  and  degrees,  are  identical  with  those  by  which  the  uncon- 
scious content  of  a  literary  work,  using  preconscious  thought  as  a 
between-stage,  is  able  to  pass  into  the  conscious  product  of  the 
written  work.  We  shall  find  nothing  to  surprise  us  in  this  fact, 
since  these  mechanisms  and  laws  are  none  other  than  those  which 
universally  govern  the  human  psyche. 

Before,  however,  we  study  the  diverse  processes  which  govern 
the  elaboration  of  a  literary  work,  let  us  seek  to  formulate  a  more 
precise  idea  of  the  different  psychic  states  to  which  we  have  referred. 

What  are  we  to  understand,  firstly,  by  unconscious  memories, 
representations  or  affects  which,  let  there  be  no  mistake,  denote 
happenings  which  pass  totally  unperceived  or  even  suspected  by 
consciousness?  Our  earliest  infantile  memories  always  remain  in 
this  condition,  as  do  the  representations  associated  with  them.  They 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  57 

thus  form,  with  the  atavistic  sum  total  of  our  instincts,  the  nu- 
cleus of  what  we  term  the  unconscious,  from  which  only  their 
unconscious  affects  succeed  in  emerging  into  the  preconscious, 
though  displaced  on  other  objects.  Thus,  it  is,  that  our  infantile 
unconscious  continues  to  govern  our  lives  by  imposing  its  choice 
of  those  representations  most  fitted  to  effect  such  displacements. 

Preconscious  representations  may  be  described  as  those  which, 
though  generally  unconscious,  may  nevertheless  emerge  into  con- 
sciousness given  suitable  occasion.  Thus,  in  effect,  we  distinguish 
between  two  types  of  unconscious;  on  one  hand  the  unconscious 
proper  which  can  never  be  brought  to  the  surface,  composed  of  the 
original  storehouse  of  our  instincts  and  earliest  infantile  experi- 
ences and,  on  the  other,  the  preconscious  compounded  of  later 
memories  and  representations  which,  though  generally  unconscious 
may,  under  favoring  conditions,  be  brought  into  consciousness. 

As  for  consciousness,  its  part  is  very  limited,  although  psychol- 
ogy once  included  every  psychic  function  in  this  category.  It  would 
appear  to  be  merely  our  capacity  for  apperception  but,  here,  turned 
inward  to  happenings  in  the  psyche.  And,  just  as  our  capacity  for 
external  perception,  via  the  senses,  can  only  perceive  phenomena 
without  probing  their  essence,  so  our  faculty  of  inner  perception 
can  only  observe  surface  movements  and  gleams  of  happenings 
in  the  inaccessible  depths  of  our  unconscious.  Thus  our  conscious 
ego  is  never  but  the  more  or  less  watchful  spectator  of  ourselves. 

When  dreams  or  literary  works  are  elaborated  what  generally 
happens,  as  indeed  with  all  our  psychic  products,  is  that  first  there 
has  been  an  external  perception.  During  the  day  however,  our 
attention,  to  adapt  us  to  reality,  requires  us  to  move  from  object 
to  object.  Thus,  the  beginnings  and  ends  of  certain  trains  of  asso- 
ciation, during  the  day,  sink  into  the  preconscious.  There  they 
continue  until  their  affect  is  dispersed  and  vanishes.  But,  also,  they 
may  encounter  a  link  which,  by  association  with  some  unconscious 
memory,  leads  to  the  unconscious.  The  entire  preconscious  chain 
of  associations  is  then  swept  into  the  unconscious  and  are  charged 
with  the  incomparable  energy  inherent  in  archaic  repressed  af- 
fects which  remain  resistant  to  time,  because  to  consciousness. 
Reinforced  by  this  affect,  they  then  emerge  into  consciousness  as  a 


58  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

night  or  day  dream.  It  is  when  this  "sinking  into  the  uncon- 
scious" takes  place  and  before  they  emerge  in  new  guise,  that  the 
preconscious  thoughts  are  subjected  to  the  curious  processes,  proc- 
esses very  different  from  those  of  logical  thought,  which  we  shall 
now  consider. 

But  before  we  do  so,  a  further  remark  is  necessary.  Although 
language  forces  us  to  speak  of  sinking  into  the  unconscious  and 
passing  from  the  unconscious  to  the  preconscious,  we  must  beware 
of  imagining  unconscious,  preconscious  or  conscious  as  localized 
regions  of  the  psyche,  for  they  are  but  diverse  conditions  of  the 
latter. 

By  sinking  into  the  unconscious,  thought  pictures  (representa- 
tions) are,  firstly,  able  to  lose  their  affect,  which  then  slips  on  to 
more  or  less  allied  representations.  Examples  of  such  displacement 
of  psychic  intensity  are  so  numerous  that  they  constitute,  so  to 
speak,  the  warp  and  woof  of  the  writer's  fabric.  To  mention  only 
the  most  striking:  in  the  series  of  tales  of  the  "Live-in-Death 
Mother,"  for  instance,  displacement  is  generally  confined  to  trans- 
ferring the  predominant  affect,  originally  attached  to  the  mother, 
to  the  imaginary  figures  endowed  with  the  attributes  which  per- 
tained to  the  dead  woman.  Berenice,  Morella,  Ligeia,  Madeline, 
are  as  morbid,  as  evanescent  as  advanced  consumptives,  while  their 
sylphlike  motions  seem,  already,  to  exhale  an  odor  of  decay.  Never- 
theless, this  simple  displacement  served  to  keep  Poe  ignorant,  as 
for  almost  a  century  his  readers,  that  these  ailing  sylphs  were  but 
forms  of  Elizabeth  Arnold.  At  the  most,  it  was  sometimes  guessed 
that  Virginia  might  be  a  surrogate  of  Elizabeth. 

With  The  Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher,  however,  a  greater  degree 
of  displacement  strikes  us.  There,  the  "Live-in-Death  Mother"  is 
represented  not  only  by  Madeline's  human  form  but  as  a  building; 
a  house  whose  walls,  whose  atmosphere,  breathe  putrefaction.  To 
effect  this  gross  displacement,  Poe  employs  one  of  man's  universal 
symbols;  that  which  represents  a  woman  as  a  building. 

In  Metzenger stein,  the  Mother  is  represented,  totemically,  by  a 
horse.  It  is  on  this  that  the  incestuous  libidinal  emphasis,  which 
originally  belonged  to  the  mother,  is  displaced.  Who  ever  would 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  59 

have  found  his  way  through  all  this  but  for  the  keys,  the  laws, 
revealed  by  Freud  in  his  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams?  Intellec- 
tually that  is,  for  it  is  just  because  our  unconscious  so  well  recog- 
nizes, under  the  strangeness  of  the  manifest  tale,  the  depth  and 
reality  of  the  tragedy  latently  enacted,  that  each  of  Poe's  stories 
stirs  our  instincts  so  deeply,  however  puerile  they  at  times  seem. 

With  the  tales  of  the  "Mother-as-Landscape,"  the  displacement 
of  psychic  intensities  manifests  itself  in  ever  more  forms  and  on 
a  yet  vaster  scale.  Our  primary  bent,  to  absorb  the  universe  narcis- 
sistically,  enables  the  libido  with  which  we  invest  objects  to  attach 
itself  to  all  our  senses  perceive,  however  microscopic  or  large;  the 
seas,  the  earth's  depths,  the  stars.  Thus  the  mother,  the  first  object 
we  learn  to  differentiate  from  ourselves,  is  represented  in  The 
Narrative  of  Arthur  Gordon  Pym  not  only  by  ships,  or  the  strange 
white  totem  animal  Tekeli-li,  but  also  by  the  ocean,  one  of  her 
universal  symbols. 

Again,  in  the  burial  phantasy  of  The  Narrative  of  Arthur  Gordon 
Pym  and  more,  even,  of  The  Gold  Bug,  the  earth  also  symbolizes 
the  mother  and,  its  "bowels,"  her  bowels  or  womb.  In  its  turn,  too, 
in  The  Unparalleled  Adventures  of  one  Hans  Pfaall,  the  pale,  cold 
moon  represents  the  mother,  while  the  son's  yearning  for  these 
symbolic  mothers  is  revealed  in  the  passion  with  which  Poe's  vari- 
ous heroes  seek  to  explore  and  win  the  earth,  the  sky,  the  seas. 
In  Poe's  three  sea  stories,  the  sea  yawns  into  vast  funnels  down 
which  the  son  precipitously  returns  to  the  place  wherefrom  he 
issued. 

In  that  strange  tale,  Loss  of  Breath,  with  its  indirect  confession 
of  Poe's  impotence,  it  will  not  surprise  us  to  discover  many  and 
varied  instances  of  such  displacements.  The  basic  displacement 
here  is  that  whereby  affect  is  transferred  from  the  natural  con- 
cern felt  by  all  men  in  connection  with  their  sexual  potency,  to  a 
concern  for  lungs  and  breath.  Here,  too,  Poe  has  resorted  to  one 
of  humanity's  consecrated  symbols,  for  many  theogonies  attribute 
creative  powers  to  their  deities'  divine  breath.  It  would  be  beyond 
our  scope  to  recall  here  all  the  displacements  with  which  this  tale 
abounds.  The  first  "guilty"  aggressive  sex  attack  by  Mr.  Lacko'- 
breath  was,  as  we  saw,  replaced  by  verbal  aggression  which  resulted 


60  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  his  punishment;  namely,  the  loss  of  breath  inflicted  by  the  cas- 
trating father  in  shape  of  Mr.  Windenough;  his  being  crushed  by 
the  fat  gentleman  in  the  diligence;  his  being  dismembered  by  the 
surgeon  and,  again,  his  being  perforated  by  the  undertaker's  screw; 
all,  so  many  variants  of  the  same  theme.  On  the  other  hand,  he  is 
rephallized  in  the  form  of  hanging.  And  erection  is  depicted  by 
an  endless  swelling  of  the  hero's  body  after  he  is  hanged.  Thus,  the 
libidinal  emphasis  properly  attached  to  the  phallus  is  displaced  on 
this  swelling,  which  now  appears  as  anxiety  and  the  antithesis  of 
the  pleasures  so  much  feared  by  Poe.  Perhaps  the  only  motif  which 
appears  almost  unchanged  is  that  of  Elizabeth  Arnold's  "guilty" 
love  letters,  doubtless,  because  thus  isolated  in  a  distorted  context, 
they  seemed  sufficiently  disguised.  This  whole  tale,  which  con- 
fesses Poe's  tragedy,  his  impotence,  is  characterized  by  its  reversed 
affect:  it  is  a  tragedy  masquerading  as  burlesque.  Representation 
by  opposite,  by  which  we  disguise  what  we  dare  not  openly  express 
— which  device  we  shall  later  discuss — dominates  this  tale.  Nor  is 
it  by  chance  that  even  rephallization  is  represented,  ironically,  by 
a  limp,  dangling  body. 

In  the  tales  of  the  "Murdered  Mother,"  displacement  of  affect  is 
clearly  revealed.  The  slayer-father,  as  imaged  in  the  infantile 
sadistic  concept  of  coitus,  here  appears  as  the  mysterious  unknown, 
the  "Man  of  the  Crowd,"  "type  and  genius  of  profound  crime"  as, 
also,  in  the  orangutan  of  The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue.  In  one 
case,  a  dagger  symbolizes  the  piercing  phallus;  in  the  other,  a 
razor.  There  is  displacement,  too,  in  the  locked  room  of  the  Rue 
Morgue — which  represents  the  mother  as  much  as  does  old  Mad- 
ame L'Espanaye — and  displacement  once  more  in  the  chimney, 
which  figures  the  maternal  cloaca  into  which  the  daughter  is  thrust. 
Further  displacements  are  the  gouged-out  eye  of  The  Black  Cat 
symbolizing  the  castration  wound,  the  cat's  rephallization  in  the 
form  of  hanging,  and  the  cat  as  widespread  symbol  of  woman  and 
her  genital  organs. 

In  the  tales  of  "Revolt  against  the  Father,"  the  psychic  emphasis 
properly  attached  to  the  phallus  is  attached  to  The  T ell-Tale  Heart, 
while  that  in  The  Cask  of  Amontillado,  proper  to  the  maternal 
bowels,  is  shifted  upon  Montresor's  vaults.  Indeed,  all  representa- 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  61 

tions  by  courtiers,  princes  or  kings,  of  the  parents  we  knew  as 
children,  as  in  Hop-Frog  or  The  Red  Death,  are  so  many  displace- 
ments designed  to  render  them  unrecognizable  for  what  they  are, 
so  that,  unsuspecting,  they  may  play  their  "guilty,"  libidinal  parts. 

The  Devil  who  bets  and  wins  Mr.  Dammit's  head,  and  the  sym- 
bolic bridge  which  beheads  him  with  its  iron  bracings  were,  as  we 
saw,  displacements  first  of  the  avenging  father  and  then,  of  the 
danger-fraught  vagina  with  its  imaginary,  fearsome  teeth.  Innumer- 
able are  the  displacements  which  went  to  construct  The  Pit  and  the 
Pendulum  nightmare.  The  cell  as  the  contractile  womb  of  the 
mother,  the  vaginal  pit,  and  the  penis-scythe  of  Time,  are  but  the 
most  striking.  Finally,  what  shall  we  say  of  the  sidereal  displace- 
ments of  that  androgynous  system  Eureka  or  of  its  God  who,  like 
all  great  deities,  is  a  displacement  of  the  father  on  infinity;  or,  of 
the  primal  ejaculation  of  that  God;  or  again,  of  the  Particle  Proper, 
that  first  spermatozoon  from  which,  through  irradiation  or  cellular 
fission,  the  Universe,  child  of  God,  was  born? 

But  here  we  must  interrupt  our  recital  of  these  examples  of  dis- 
placement in  the  stories  we  have  analyzed.  To  instance  them  all 
would  be  almost  to  rewrite  this  book. 

Of  all  the  devices  employed  by  the  dreamwork,  that  of  the  dis- 
placement of  psychic  intensities — apart  from  one  exception — is  the 
most  freely  used  in  the  elaboration  of  works  of  art,  doubtless  be- 
cause such  displacement  is  generally  dictated  by  the  moral  censor, 
which  is  more  active  in  our  waking  thoughts  than  in  sleep.  The 
conceiving  and  writing  of  literary  works  are  conscious  activities, 
and  the  less  the  author  guesses  of  the  hidden  themes  in  his  works, 
the  likelier  are  they  to  be  truly  creative. 

The  moral  censor,  as  we  see,  employs  displacement  to  veil  from 
authors,  as  from  dreamers,  the  nature  of  the  instincts  which  dreams, 
or  works  of  art,  reveal.  But  there  is  yet  another  condition  which 
creative  work  must  satisfy,  namely,  regard  for  representability, 
although  in  less  degree  than  is  required  by  dreams  or  the  plastic 
arts.  This  regard  for  representability,  as  Freud  wrote  in  the  passage 
earlier  quoted,  leads  to  fresh  displacements  which,  in  dreams,  at- 
tach themselves  to  latent  elements  too  abstract  to  fulfill  the  regard 


62  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

for  representability  needed  to  create  dreams.  Yet,  in  literature, 
we  frequently  find  chains  of  abstract  thought  which  would,  with 
difficulty,  find  their  way  into  dreams — as,  for  instance,  Dupin's 
reasoning  at  the  beginning  of  The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue  or 
Legrand's  deductions  in  The  Gold  Bug.  The  dream,  for  instance,  in 
the  former,  would  have  represented  the  comparison  of  the  "ingen- 
ious" chess  player  with  the  more  "analytic"  whist  player  by  simul- 
taneously, or  successively,  presenting  people  playing  whist  and 
chess,  the  superiority  of  the  whist  players  being  conveyed  in  a  final 
presentation  of  the  latter.  Nevertheless,  the  tendency  to  replace 
abstract  concepts  by  sensory  images,  mainly  visual,  is  apparent 
even  in  the  elaboration  of  imaginative  works.  The  appearance  of 
The  Red  Death  in  Prince  Prospero's  palace,  intended  to  represent 
the  invading  epidemic,  is  depicted  by  the  entrance  of  a  masked, 
blood-spattered,  human  form  which  strikingly  and,  visually,  char- 
acterizes the  plague's  symptoms.  The  Angel  of  the  Odd  also,  in  its 
way,  "visualizes"  unconscious  memories  of  the  real  fluid  nourish- 
ment the  child  absorbed  from  its  mother.  Also,  by  a  process  of 
condensation  which  we  shall  soon  meet  again,  the  story  similarly 
"visualizes"  the  wish  for  other  imagined  excreted  bodily  foods 
which  the  child,  later,  wished  to  receive  from  the  father  who,  then, 
had  become  the  love  object.  One  of  the  substitutes,  later,  for  this 
food,  in  the  unconscious,  is  drinking  with  bosom  cronies.  All  this, 
which  could  not  be  said  directly,  is  visually  expressed  by  the 
Angel's  appearance — a  creature  composed  of  bottles  and  kegs  of 
nourishing  fluids,  which  it  lavishes  on  the  narrator  while  belabor- 
ing him  with  blows.  Thus  it  recalls  Poe's  upbringing  by  John  Allan. 
In  Metzengerstein,  the  son's  incestuous  union  with  the  mother  is 
magnificently  visualized  in  the  rider's  mad  rush  while  glued  to  his 
inseparable,  symbolic  charger.  In  The  Descent  into  the  Maelstrom, 
the  return  to  the  womb  has  all  the  immensity  of  a  vertiginous 
plunge  into  the  ocean's  yawning  chasm.  Similar  examples  of  in- 
tensely visualized  displacements  can  be  endlessly  found,  and  de- 
scribed, in  Poe's  tales. 

But  here  we  shall  pause  to  turn  to  another  problem,  observing 
that,  of  the  four  kinds  of  displacement  mentioned  as  needed  to 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  63 

fulfill  the  regard  for  representability,  three  are  direct  representa- 
tions of  the  human  body  or  certain  of  its  parts. 

May  not,  also,  the  first  example,  the  plague  figured  as  The 
Masque  of  the  Red  Death,  be  traced  back  to  a  human  prototype? 
For  the  masker  who  sows  the  pestilence  or  Red  Death  is,  as  we 
saw,  identical  with  the  murdered  Oedipal  father  who,  by  the  talion 
law  returns,  in  his  turn,  to  become  the  slayer. 

The  other  displacements  with  which  we  first  dealt,  resulting 
from  the  behests  of  the  moral  censor,  also  mostly  end  by  represent- 
ing human  beings  in  one  shape  or  other.  These  generally  human 
symbols,  invariably  derived  from  the  human  body,  we  have 
throughout  found  enlisted  in  the  service  of  the  displacement  mech- 
anism made  necessary  by  the  moral  censor. 

To  the  reader,  our  analyses  may  at  times  have  seemed  overmuch 
to  stress  these  symbolic  devices  which,  monotonously,  bring  every- 
thing in  the  universe  back  to  the  same  human  prototypes — father, 
mother,  child,  our  members  and  organs  and,  in  particular,  the 
genitals.  The  fault,  however,  is  not  ours.  We  cannot  help  it  that  the 
unconscious  monotonously  reiterates  certain  themes,  governed  as  it 
is  by  our  most  primitive  memories  and  our  most  archaic  instincts. 

Now,  of  the  two  great  instincts  that  govern  our  lives,  hunger  and 
love,  hunger  is  much  the  less  psychological,  doubtless  because  the 
nutritive  instinct  is  only  in  slight  degree  "compressible."  He  who 
eats  not,  dies!  This  imperative  instinct  thus  demands  to  be  more  or 
less  satisfied  and,  as  a  result,  has  small  opportunity  to  provide 
psychic  substitutes  for  itself.  But  what  turns  the  libidinal  instinct, 
the  libido,  into  the  psychological  instinct  in  excelsis,  that  whose 
derivatives  and  substitutes  engage  the  whole  psyche,  is  not  only  its 
compressibility  (man,  at  need,  may  live  without  direct  satisfaction 
of  his  erotism)  but  doubtless,  also,  the  biological  fact  that  the 
libido,  like  the  psyche,  stands  in  a  specially  close  relation  to  the 
nervous  system.  So  closely  interwoven  is  the  erotic  instinct,  and  its 
dynamics,  with  other  aspects  of  the  psyche,  that  they  seem  quite 
impossible  to  separate  out,  as  we  see  from  that  universal  phenom- 
enon sublimation,  on  which  all  our  civilizations  have  been  raised. 

The  initial  autoerotism  of  the  nursling,  with  its  diffused  seekings 
for  gratification,  eventually  enters  a  narcissistic  phase  where  the 


64  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

child  takes  itself  as  its  first  love  object.  In  this  phase,  the  child  does 
not  as  yet  distinguish  its  own  body  from  the  breast  which  suckles 
it,  nor  from  the  mother's  soft,  warm  body;  only  later  does  the 
mother  become  its  first  awareness  of  the  outer  world.  By  degrees 
its  father,  brothers  and  sisters,  then  the  outer  world,  materialize 
behind  the  mother  and,  under  the  growing  pressure  of  reality,  be- 
come accepted  by  the  child.  The  unconscious,  however,  finds  means 
to  revenge  itself  for  thus  being  robbed  of  its  omnipotence  and 
the  outer  world,  which  destroys  our  primary,  narcissistic  illusions 
is,  in  its  turn,  narcissised  by  the  unconscious.  In  this  process,  the 
child,  ontogenetically  similar  here  to  our  remote  ancestors,  passes 
through  an  animistic  stage  whose  symbols  still  rule  our  souls, 
whether  we  be  primitives  or  highly  civilized;  symbols  which,  doubt- 
less, are  its  ineradicable  vestige. 

Thus  it  is  that  symbols  for  the  body,  the  mother  and  father,  their 
genitals  and  ours,  throng  the  unconscious  and  are  projected  into 
whatever  the  psyche  produces,  whether  we  sleep  or  wake.  For,  as 
instances  from  every  domain  of  the  spirit  show: 

we  need  not  assume  that  any  special  symbolizing  activity  of  the 
psyche  is  operative  in  dream-formation;  ...  on  the  contrary,  the 
dream  makes  use  of  such  symbolizations  as  are  to  be  found 
ready-made  in  unconscious  thinking,  since  these,  by  reason  of 
their  ease  of  representation,  and  for  the  most  part  by  reason  of 
their  being  exempt  from  the  censorship,  satisfy  more  effectively 
the  requirements  of  dream-formation.3 

Symbols  succeed  in  satisfying  both  the  conditions  required  for  dis- 
placement; namely,  the  demands  of  morality  and  concreteness. 
Thus,  we  find  they  abound  in  mythology,  art,  and  religion  as,  also, 
in  dreams. 

Poe's  opus  which,  in  any  case,  comes  as  near  to  the  dream  as  is 
possible  for  any  successfully  conceived  conscious  production,  is 
found  to  be  especially  rich  in  symbols;  these  help  to  instill  that 
intense  and  visual  eloquence  which  communicates  direct  from  the 
unconscious  of  one  individual  to  that  of  another. 

Contrary  to  displacement,  condensation,  that  other  primary 
mechanism  in  the  elaboration  of  dreams,  appears  to  be  less  active 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  65 

in  the  elaboration  of  literary  works  than  of  dreams.  In  particular, 
it  is  responsible  far  less  often  for  those  nonsensical  products,  that 
seem  to  defy  all  logic,  which  we  know  as  nonsense  dreams:  prod- 
ucts resulting  from  drastic  condensation  of  convergent  and,  even, 
divergent  thoughts.  That  difference,  doubtless,  inheres  in  the  fact 
that  literary  creation  is  the  product  of  the  waking  psyche.  When 
we  are  awake,  preconscious  and  conscious  thoughts  dominate,  with 
their  strivings  for  logic,  and  the  unconscious  is  deeply  buried.  It  is 
only,  however,  in  the  unconscious  that  condensation  takes  place. 
The  unconscious,  alone,  is  the  crucible  into  which  the  precon- 
scious thoughts,  once  they  have  sunk  there,  automatically,  as  it 
were,  form  those  strange  and  at  times  ridiculous  amalgams  we 
know  as  "condensations."  It  need  not  surprise  us,  therefore,  to  find 
that  Poe's  tales,  though  at  times  so  similar  to  dream  products, 
show  less  condensation  than  our  dreams. 

Condensation  appears  when,  despite  the  conscious  thought  of 
the  tale,  deep  unconscious  processes  are  at  work.  Poe's  women, 
with  their  "supernatural  aura"  were,  as  we  saw,  condensations  of 
many  of  the  women  he  loved:  Berenice,  Madeline  and  Eleonora, 
especially,  reveal  characteristics  of  Virginia  his  small  cousin,  as 
much  as  of  his  mother  Elizabeth.  The  Marchesa  Aphrodite,  in  The 
Assignation,  with  her  "statuelike"  figure,  condenses  Mrs.  Stanard, 
Elmira,  Frances  Allan  and  Elizabeth  Arnold.  The  Marchese  Men- 
toni,  that  grim  avenger  on  his  palace  steps,  recalls  Judge  Stanard 
and  John  Allan.  Furthermore,  the  old  man  in  The  Tell-Tale  Heart 
was  shown  to  condense  David  Poe,  his  supposititious  successor  in 
Elizabeth's  affections  and,  also,  John  Allan.  Many  such  instances 
could  be  given,  were  we  to  seek  out,  in  Poe's  works,  all  those  com- 
posite figures  which — by  overdetermination,  condensation  and  the 
fusion  of  many  people's  attributes  into  one — result  in  a  general 
underlining  of  certain  characteristics  and,  so,  in  the  creation  of 
those  intense,  almost  mythical  paternal  or  maternal  figures  which 
so  strongly  affect  our  minds.  In  effect,  the  purpose  condensation 
fulfills  is  to  produce  affects  more  intense  than  those  found  in  our 
latent  thoughts,  to  which  end  it  picks  up  and  concentrates  the 
scattered  preconscious  thoughts  as  they  sink  into  the  unconscious. 

Suffice  it  if  we  again  recall  the  figure  that  seems  to  come  at  the 


66  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

end  of  our  scale,  that  of  The  Angel  of  the  Odd,  which  condenses 
the  father  concept  (John  Allan  and  his  whippings),  the  mother 
(bottle  =  breasts),  and  milk  (alcohol)  as  well  as  various  bodily 
secretions,  female  or  male  (again  alcohol). 

Passing  to  other  types  of  condensation  we  find  that,  though  the 
Marchesa  Aphrodite  and  Poe's  other  composite  figures  are  built  up 
after  "the  method  employed  by  Galton  in  producing  family  por- 
traits"— by  superimposing  family  likenesses  one  on  another,  "so 
that  the  common  features  stand  out  in  stronger  relief,  while  those 
which  do  not  coincide  neutralize  one  another  and  become  indis- 
tinct," 4  condensation  may  also  create  hippogriffs  and  chimeras. 
The  fantastic  Tekeli-li  in  The  Narrative  of  Arthur  Gordon  Pym,  by 
its  cat's  head  reminds  us  of  the  mother  and  her  genitals  and,  by 
its  whiteness,  of  her  milk.  By  its  scarlet  teeth  and  claws  it  also  re- 
minds us  of  the  cannibal  wishes  which  develop  in  the  child  with 
its  growing  teeth,  and  of  the  talion  for  its  guilty  wishes  which  the 
child  imagines  may  be  exacted  by  her  teeth,  or  even  vagina,  in 
punishment  not,  now,  for  its  cannibal  wishes  but  for  its  incestuous 
desires.  As  to  the  long  and  prominent  rat's  tail,  that  doubtless  is  an 
offshoot  of  the  penis  which  the  child  originally  attributes  to  the 
mother,  while  the  doglike  ears  of  the  strange  "cat"  are  perhaps  bor- 
rowed from  Tiger,  Pym's  dog,  with  its  mother  characteristics. 

Again,  a  single  manifest  element  may  represent  several  which 
remain  latent:  Mr.  Lacko 'breath's  lost  breath,  for  instance,  repre- 
sents both  creative  male  potency  and  intestinal  flatus.  In  The  Gold 
Bug,  the  treasure  is  strongly  overdetermined  and  represents  several 
hidden  and  implied  sets  of  ideas.  First,  all  the  phantasies  of  real 
wealth  which  occupied  Poe  as  the  son  of  poor  strolling  players 
and,  later,  as  the  disinherited  "son"  of  John  Allan,  reflect  them- 
selves in  Captain  Kidd's  dazzling  treasure.  But  beneath  its  super- 
ficial glamour,  deep  and  unconscious  drives  lend  power  and  con- 
viction to  the  treasure  theme.  The  unconscious  memory  of  little 
Rosalie,  born  shortly  before  he  visited  the  Carolina  coast  for  the 
first  time  with  his  mother,  and  his  ruminations  on  her  birth,  are 
what  unconsciously  inspire  Legrand's  inductions.  As  for  the  buried 
treasure  they  reveal,  this  emerges  as  a  substitute  for  the  infant 
sister  whose  sojourn  in  his  mother's  womb  he  had  guessed. 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  67 

The  treasure  itself,  with  its  gold  and  precious  stones,  we  saw 
revealed  as  symbols  of  the  child's  first  "gifts";  the  feces  which,  in 
return  for  his  own  "generosity"  in  yielding  his,  she  will  exchange 
for  a  similar  gift.  We  may  recall  in  this  connection  the  symbolic 
maternal  animals  which  in  Peau  d'Ane  and  so  many  other  legends, 
excrete  gold  in  place  of  feces.  So  too,  it  was  from  Frances  Allan 
that  Edgar  desired  these  anal  gifts,  gifts  expressed  in  The  Gold  Bug 
in  the  classic,  symbolic  form  of  gold  and  jewels.  Yet  this  gold  was 
not  Frances',  but  John  Allan's.  When  Frances  heaped  luxuries 
on  her  foster  son,  it  was  her  husband's  wealth  which  allowed  her 
to  do  so.  The  child  who,  at  first,  had  seen  only  the  "mother's" 
generosity,  must  soon  have  seen  from  a  dispute,  word,  or  gesture 
that  the  money  she  spent  came,  in  fact,  from  the  man.  Whence 
the  equating  of  gold  with  the  father's  male  potency  and,  so,  penis. 

Thus,  as  a  result  of  factors  specific  to  Poe's  childhood  and  early 
life,  the  ancient  and  universal  equation  feces  =  gold  ==  child  =  penis 
declares  itself,  in  this  model  tale,  in  the  greatly  condensed  and  sole 
theme  of  treasure. 

Another  psychic  process  however,  the  opposite,  as  it  were,  of 
condensation,  even  more  frequently  manifests  itself  in  creative 
writing  than  in  dreams;  that  by  which  one  individual  is  split  into 
several. 

In  Morella,  Ligeia  and  Eleonora,  the  manifest  forms  of  the  first 
wives  begin  as  condensations  of  the  images  of  Elizabeth  and  Vir- 
ginia; they  then  however  split,  to  represent,  separately,  once  more 
distinct  from  each  other,  the  two  images  originally  separate  in  the 
latent  thought  of  the  tale.  The  process  to  which  we  allude  is  thus 
only  apparently  at  work,  for  the  second  act,  which  restores  the 
second  Morella,  Rowena,  or  Ermengarde,  merely  resolves  the  ear- 
lier condensation. 

In  The  Black  Cat  however,  we  do,  in  fact,  see  the  mother  split 
into  several  characters:  the  slayer's  wife,  Pluto  and  the  second  cat 
all  reproduce  this  one  prototype.  But,  as  ever  in  the  unconscious, 
the  diverse  mechanisms  involved  in  psychic  elaboration  function 
simultaneously.  Through  displacement,  the  psychic  emphasis  that 
belongs  to  the  mother  is  shifted  on  the  unrecognizable  cats  or  on 


68  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  murderer's  anonymous  wife.  Through  condensation,  in  each  of 
these  three  protagonists,  the  poet's  mother  Elizabeth  has  been 
fused  with  Virginia  his  wife  and,  what  is  more,  has  incorporated 
Catterina,  Poe's  cat,  in  two  of  them. 

Also,  the  mechanism  by  which  one  character  is  split  into  several 
equally  affects  their  derivatives.  The  mother,  for  instance,  in  whom 
other  elements  are  so  fused  as  to  be  no  longer  recognized,  is  also 
split  into  three.  And  each  of  these  mothers  has  her  own  character- 
istics, as  well  as  others  common  to  all  three.  Though  all  three  are 
symbolically  castrated,  either  genitally,  or  by  loss  of  an  eye,  thus 
declaring  themselves  all  mothers,  there  was  a  time  when  Pluto  had 
perfect  eyes,  a  time  of  more  virility  than  the  second  cat  ever  knew, 
though  likewise  a  male.  Thus,  the  three  forms  of  the  mother,  in 
the  tale,  paint  the  mother  from  different  angles.  Pluto  is  first  the 
phallic  mother,  at  the  time  the  small  boy  really  believed  in  his 
mother's  penis.  But  once  Pluto  has  been  symbolically  castrated  by 
the  man,  once  the  mother  has  been  punished  for  introducing  cas- 
tration into  the  world,  as  witnessed  by  her  body,  the  second  cat 
appears  with  the  large  white  splotch  on  its  chest.  This  second  cat 
represents  the  nursing  mother  pleading  for  pardon  by  her  milk,  by 
her  life-giving  breasts  in  lieu  of  the  penis.  Finally,  in  the  murderer's 
wife,  we  see  the  mother's  original  human  form  emerge  from  under 
its  totemic  cat-disguise,  in  the  same  way  that,  with  the  ancient 
gods,  the  original  form  of  the  father  reappears  under  their  primi- 
tive totemic  guises.  And  the  double  murder,  that  of  the  wife  after 
Pluto,  clearly  reveals  who,  in  the  first  instance,  in  cat  form,  was 
slain. 

As  for  the  father,  we  see  him  multiplied  rather  than  subdivided 
in  Loss  of  Breath,  in  the  series  of  castrating  fathers.  In  The  Narra- 
tive of  Arthur  Gordon  Pym,  the  father  is  split  into  the  two  classic 
categories  of  good  and  bad  father;  on  the  one  hand  the  good  but 
weak  captains,  Barnard  and  Guy  and,  on  the  other,  the  rebellious 
mate  and  Too-wit,  both  evil  but  both  eventually  rendered  impotent 
like  the  wicked  grandfather  with  his  futile  cane.  The  only  survivor, 
save  for  Pym,  is  Peters,  himself  split  off  from  the  author's  ego  and, 
so  to  speak,  his  heroic  ego-ideal. 

Nevertheless,  the  possibilities  of  such  splittings  of  the  father  are 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  69 

limited:  he  can  never  be  identified  with  matter  in  general;  the  earth 
and  water.  Per  contra,  the  mother,  as  we  saw  in  The  Fall  of  the 
House  of  Usher,  appears  doubly  determined  as  Madeline  and  the 
manor  while,  in  The  Black  Cat,  she  appears  as  the  wife,  as  both 
cats  and,  again,  as  the  house  with  its  cellar.  Again,  in  The  Murders 
in  the  Rue  Morgue  she  appears  both  as  a  woman  (the  murdered 
old  woman)  and  then  as  a  room  which,  though  all  its  orifices  are 
sealed,  is  nevertheless  forced  open.  In  The  Adventures  of  Arthur 
Gordon  Pym,  this  defusion  of  the  mother's  entity  possibly  reaches 
its  highest  point,  so  generally  is  it  attached  to  all  objects  for,  though 
she  is  not  revealed  in  her  real  form  save  as  the  white  phantom 
which  closes  the  tale,  we  nevertheless  find  her  split  up  on  every 
page  and  attached  to  all  objects  in  nature:  the  sea  and  its 
waves,  the  earth  and  its  streams  and  chasms,  not  to  mention  the 
symbolic  ships,  the  dog  Tiger  and  the  Tekeli-li,  each  of  which  rep- 
resents the  mother,  though  with  varying  attributes. 

When  defusion  attains  such  proportions,  we  may  wonder,  how- 
ever, whether  we  can  still,  properly,  speak  of  splitting — a  term  re- 
served for  the  splitting  between  individuals — for  this  special  psychic 
mechanism,  like  a  river  confined,  then  loses  itself  in  the  vast  and 
general  ocean  of  symbolism. 

The  splitting-up  of  a  single  personality,  moreover,  seems  far 
more  appropriate  to  serve  multiple  representations  of  the  ego  than 
to  depict  either  father  or  mother. 

Freud  writes,  in  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams, 

There  are  also  dreams  in  which  my  ego  appears  together  with 
other  persons  who,  when  the  identification  is  resolved,  once  more 
show  themselves  to  be  my  ego.  ...  I  may  also  give  my  ego  mul- 
tiple representation  in  my  dream,  either  directly  or  by  means  of 
identification  with  other  people.5 

Again,  in  The  Relation  of  the  Poet  to  Day-dreaming,  he  says, 

It  has  struck  me  in  many  so-called  psychological  novels,  too, 
that  only  one  person — once  again  the  hero — is  described  from 
within;  the  author  dwells  in  his  soul  and  looks  upon  the  other 
people  from  outside.  The  psychological  novel  in  general  probably 
owes  its  peculiarities  to  the  tendency  of  modern  writers  to  split 
up  their  ego  by  self-observation  into  many  component  egos,  and 


70  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  this  way  to  personify  the  conflicting  trends  in  their  own  mental 
life  in  many  heroes.6 

One  can  hardly  apply  the  term  "psychological  novelist"  to  Poe  in 
its  literal  sense,  but  in  his  eminently  egocentric  productions  many 
examples  of  splitting  the  ego  start  to  the  eye. 

First  and  foremost,  William  Wilson.  We  saw,  in  analyzing  this 
tale,  how  clearly  Poe  himself  appears  in  the  two  William  Wilsons; 
one,  personifying  his  deepest  instincts,  the  id,  the  other  his  super- 
ego or  conscience;  this  last,  derived  by  introjection  from  John 
Allan,  the  father.  This  instance  is  almost  schematic  and  the  fact 
that  the  author  himself  was  partly  aware  of  its  conscious  implica- 
tions lends  the  tale  a  certain  lack  of  warmth.  Of  more  significance 
to  us,  because  of  the  unconscious  mechanisms  at  work,  are  the  fre- 
quent examples  where  the  ego  is  split  in  The  Murders  in  the  Rue 
Morgue.  We  have  already  seen  that  Dupin,  the  infallible  ratioci- 
nator,  is  Poe  in  person,  the  world  decipherer  of  cryptograms  and 
puzzles;  a  Poe  who,  in  a  field  apparently  purely  intellectual,  took 
his  revenge  for  the  sexual  investigations  in  which,  as  a  child,  he 
had  failed.  But  Dupin's  friend  the  narrator,  who  observes  and  ad- 
mires the  infallible  ratiocinator,  is  once  again  Poe,  this  time  as 
spectator,  from  outside,  of  his  own  final  triumph.  It  is  in  the  soul 
of  this  narrator,  present  in  The  Mystery  of  Marie  Roget,  The  Pur- 
loined Letter  and  The  Gold  Bug  that,  as  Freud  says,  the  author 
dwells  and  looks  out  upon  the  other  characters,  father,  mother,  or 
split-off  ego.  The  sailor,  the  owner  of  the  orangutan,  is  Poe  again, 
but  now  the  infant  present  at  the  parental  sex  act,  sadistically 
conceived.  Thus,  part  of  Poe's  ego  has  attached  itself  to  the 
father-figure  orangutan  in  his  desire  to  identify  himself  with  the 
father  to  whom  the  mother  belongs.  But  only  the  merest  allusion 
indicates  this;  the  creature's  youth. 

Examples  of  such  splittings-off  of  the  ego  might  be  multiplied 
in  Poe's  tales;  a  mechanism  frequently  employed  in  the  representa- 
tion found  in  creative  writing.  At  its  base,  moreover,  is  found 
the  displacement  which  helps  to  bring  this  about  and,  also,  to 
achieve  the  regard  for  representability  of  the  writer's  material. 
Such  splittings-off  enable  specific  aspects  and  qualities  of  the  ego 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  71 

to  be  personified  and  made  concrete  and  visual.  Thus,  in  The 
Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue,  the  sailor  visually  embodies  Poe's 
infantile  curiosity,  Dupin,  his  eager  infantile  investigations  and  the 
narrator  his,  doubtless,  precocious  bent  toward  self-observation. 

So  far,  we  have  seen  the  same  classic  mechanisms  at  work, 
more  or  less,  in  the  elaboration  of  imaginative  literature  and 
dreams;  condensation,  displacement  and  regard  for  representabil- 
ity;  this  last,  like  the  moral  censor,  using  displacement  for  its 
ends.  The  splitting  of  a  single  latent  personality,  in  particular  the 
author's  ego,  into  several  manifest  characters,  was  found  to  be 
one  way  of  obtaining  representability ,  itself  controlled  by  displace- 
ment. 

When,  however,  we  come  to  deal  with  the  way  in  which  literary 
creation  seeks  to  express  the  logical  relation  of  its  themes,  manifest 
or  latent,  we  naturally  expect  to  find  it  differ  greatly  from  the 
construction  of  dreams.  Literary  creation,  being  a  conscious  prod- 
uct, is  subject  to  reason  and  logic. 

So,  indeed,  at  first  sight  it  appears,  for  the  dream  has  no  obvious 
means  by  which  to  represent  logical  relations,7  while  literature 
may  command  the  whole  range  of  conjunctions  and  prepositions. 
Thus,  imaginative  writing  seems  in  general  to  obey  the  laws  of 
logic  and,  in  many  cases,  to  be  coherent  to  a  high  degree.  Never- 
theless, it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  though,  on  the  surface,  a 
literary  work  relates  a  manifestly  coherent  story,  intertwined  with 
it  and,  simultaneously,  another  and  secret  story  is  being  told 
which,  in  fact,  is  the  basic  theme.  Though,  therefore,  the  manifest 
tale  normally  obeys  the  rules  of  logic,  this  deeper  current  is  subject 
to  other  laws. 

In  this  respect  the  work  of  art  resembles  every  product  of  the 
human  psyche  in  which  the  two  great  forces  which  dominate  the 
psyche — the  preconscious  and  unconscious  proper — are  simul- 
taneously at  work,  though  in  different  degrees.  The  contradiction 
between  the  preconscious  latent  dream  thoughts,  for  instance,  co- 
herent and  logical  as  they  are,  and  the  alogical  incoherence  im- 
posed on  the  same  thoughts  by  the  dreamwork  once  they  have 
entered  the  unconscious,  has  been  emphasized  by  Freud.8  This 


72  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

same  contradition  is  found  in  creative  writing  and  the  degree  in 
which  the  latent  thought,  itself  coherent,  appears  incoherent  and 
illogical,  will  depend  on  how  nearly  the  work  approaches  the 
dream.  Poe's  works,  in  effect,  fall  into  that  category  of  literature 
which  presents  dream  and  nightmare  characteristics  in  high  degree. 
It  need  not  therefore,  at  times,  surprise  us  to  see  some  loosening 
of  the  surface  logic  reveal  the  deeper  alogical  unconscious  structure 
and  the  strange  representations  employed. 

In  Ligeia,  for  instance,  the  latent  preconscious  content  of  the 
tale  seeks  to  express  the  theme :  "Because  I  continue  fixated  to  my 
mother,  I  cannot  love  another  woman."  But  before  these  precon- 
scious thoughts  could  be  represented,  they  had  to  sink  with  the 
unconscious  where,  as  a  result  of  the  infantile,  archaic  desire  with 
which  they  were  linked — that  of  re-finding  the  mother  who  forever 
dwells  there — they  acquired  the  power  to  emerge  in  the  imagery 
of  art.  Thereafter,  exactly  as  with  dreams  and  their  hallucinatory 
processes,  the  logical  relation  between  two  terms  will  only  be  ex- 
pressed representationally,  as  in  the  substitution  of  the  ghostly 
Ligeia's  image  for  that  of  the  dead  Rowena.  "It  is  because  I  am 
always  there,"  the  mother  seems  to  be  saying,  "that  it  is  as  though 
other  women  did  not  exist  for  you."  This  is  as  though  Poe  himself 
were  to  declare:  "Because  I  am  still  fixated  on  my  mother,  I  can- 
not love  another  woman."  Here,  literature  uses  one  of  the  dream's 
classic  devices,  the  substitution  of  one  person  for  another  to  ex- 
press a  causal  relation.  "Causation,"  says  Freud,  "is  represented 
by  succession,  sometimes  by  the  succession  of  dreams,  sometimes 
by  the  immediate  transformation  of  one  image  into  another."  9 
Thus  Rowena- Virginia  turns  into  Ligeia-Elizabeth;  thus  the  first 
Berenice,  the  little  cousin,  at  first  dark  of  complexion  and  glowing 
with  health,  almost  as  suddenly,  in  the  library,  is  metamorphosed 
into  the  corpselike  Berenice,  whose  haunting  teeth  and  yellow  hair 
recall  the  nightmare  "Life-in-Death"  of  the  Ancient  Mariner.  In 
both  cases,  the  transformation  is  intended  to  express  the  same 
causal  relation,  the  same  ban  upon  women  which  his  mother 
fixation  imposed  on  Poe.  It  is  meant  to  express  the  same  because. 

In  this  passage  from  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams  which  we 
have  quoted,  Freud  shows  how,  in  dreams,  causation  may  also  be 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  73 

expressed  by  succession  in  the  different  parts  of  the  dream,  the 
former  and  shorter  portion  being,  as  it  were,  the  prologue  to  the 
main  dream.  May  we  not  see  an  example  of  this  type  of  causal 
representation  in  The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue?  Let  us  recall 
the  episode  concerning  Chantilly  which  so  arbitrarily,  it  seems, 
appears  to  precede  the  history  of  the  ape's  crime.  There  Dupin, 
from  various  clues,  guesses  the  train  of  thought  which,  at  that 
moment,  has  led  his  friend  to  think  of  the  actor  and,  from  the 
narrator's  thoughts,  evokes  the  ridiculous  Chantilly.  Earlier,  how- 
ever, we  identified  Chantilly  as  the  second-rate  player  David  Poe, 
Edgar's  father.  Thus,  disguised  as  Chantilly,  David  Poe  is  repre- 
sented to  us  as,  in  all  respects,  impotent.  Immediately  afterwards, 
without  transition,  there  follows  the  tale  of  the  crime  whose  vic- 
tims were  Mme.  L'Espanaye  and  her  daughter.  The  deep  logical 
and  causal  relation  between  these  portions  of  the  tale,  one  being 
but  the  prologue  to  the  other,  seems  thus  suppressed;  the  only 
apparent  link  between  them  is  the  ingenuity  Dupin  displays  in 
both  instances. 

Here,  succession,  once  more,  doubtless  represents  the  causal 
relation.  What  needs  inserting  between  the  incident  regarding 
Chantilly  and  the  crime  of  the  orangutan  is,  again,  a  because! 
Poe's  preconscious  thoughts,  sinking  into  the  unconscious  and  los- 
ing their  stiffening  of  logic,  must  have  been  something  like  this: 
"Because  father  David  was  impotent  my  mother  yielded  to  the 
mighty  X.  .  .  ."  As  we  say,  the  ape  doubtless  represented  that  un- 
known lover,  and  the  riddle  set  by  the  crime  in  the  Rue  Morgue 
was,  doubtless,  displaced  from  the  riddle  set  the  child  Poe  by  the 
dubious  fatherhood  of  his  sister  Rosalie. 

The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue  provides  other  interesting  in- 
stances of  thoughts  similarly  presented  piecemeal,  though  coherent 
enough  in  their  latent  content  and  manifest  expression;  coherent, 
that  is,  though  in  different  ways,  at  the  origin  and  end-point  of 
the  elaborative  process. 

What,  indeed,  could  be  more  rational,  seemingly,  than  the  pic- 
ture of  an  old  lady  living  in  her  room?  Yet  as  we  saw,  the  old 
woman,  like  the  room,  represents  one  and  the  same  person  in 


74  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  story's  latent  content;  i.e.,  the  mother,  although  it  would  seem 
absurd  that  someone  inhabit  herself. 

Contradictions,  however,  never  disturb  the  unconscious  and  jux- 
taposition, and  even  superimposition  of  different  elements,  is  only 
one  of  the  ways  it  expresses  an  actual  relation  between  them. 
The  room,  so  generally  a  woman  symbol,  here  represents,  given  its 
hollowness,  the  female  genitals,  into  which  the  ape  enters  after 
forcing  (violating)  the  window.  We  then  get  a  reversal  frequent 
in  the  unconscious,  a  turning  inside  out,  with  the  contents  substi- 
tuted for  the  receptacle.  The  woman  is  then  represented  as  inside 
this  cloaca  which,  in  effect,  is  inside  her;  at  the  same  time  its 
dimensions  are  greatly  magnified,  as  though  to  throw  into  relief 
what  was  most  stressed,  psychically,  in  the  author's  preconscious; 
the  woman's  genitals  rather  than  the  woman. 

Again,  the  cloaca  reappears,  in  the  same  contest,  as  the  chim- 
ney into  which  Mile.  L'Espanaye's  body  is  thrust.  The  mother  is 
thus  thrice  represented;  once  in  her  human  form  and,  twice,  as  an 
aperture  in  a  building.  But  it  is  not  the  same  cloaca  that  is  thus 
twice  represented  for,  while  the  room  represents  the  violated 
cloaca — as  the  headless  old  lady  represents  the  castrated  mother — 
the  chimney  represents  the  pregnant  cloaca.  Mile.  L'Espanaye  here, 
as  it  were,  is  the  fetus,  conceived  via  the  phallic-arm  of  the  mighty 
ape. 

Here  we  see  the  process  of  isolation  in  operation,  a  mechanism 
which  separately  represents  each  idea  of  a  given  context  and  each 
incident  of  one  representation,  linked  only  by  juxtaposition  or 
superimposition.  Only  in  the  preconscious  do  time  and  space  ap- 
pear. The  juxtapositions  and  superimpositions  which  result  from 
the  treatment  to  which  the  latent  thoughts  are  subjected  in  the 
unconscious,  per  contra,  are  heedless  of  both  logic  and  contradic- 
tions, as  of  time  and  place;  thus,  they  express  themselves  in  ways 
that  seem  absurd,  if  we  relate  them  to  the  story's  hidden  content. 
However,  these  absurdities  disappear  in  the  manifest  tale,  for  it  is 
nowise  absurd  that  an  old  lady  lives  in  a  room,  nor  that  that  room 
should  have  a  chimney;  it  is  even  possible,  at  need,  for  an  ape 
to  perform  everything  with  which  it  is  credited  in  these  murders 
in  the  Rue  Morgue.  But  again,  the  deeper  preconscious  thoughts 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  75 

which  inspire  the  tale  and  succeed  in  achieving  expression  via  the 
strange  elaborative  mechanisms  described  are  also,  in  their  way, 
entirely  coherent.  One  might  formulate  them  thus:  So  my  mother 
was  the  victim  of  a  man's  {the  suppositious  lover's)  aggression.  He 
forced  his  way  into  her  genitals  and  there,  with  his  mighty  penis, 
implanted  my  sister. 

We  shall  now  observe  the  manner  in  which  the  unconscious 
treats  such  forms  of  conscious  and  logical  thought  as  compose 
negation,  contrariety  and  identity. 

Latent  and  preconscious  dream  thoughts  which  involve  contra- 
diction or  opposition,  once  they  have  passed  into  the  unconscious, 
lose  their  power  to  express  these  relations  directly  since,  for  the 
unconscious,  negation  does  not  exist.  Also,  in  creative  writing  (as 
in  the  creation  of  neurotic  symptoms)  whenever,  within  the  un- 
conscious, some  profound  unconscious  infantile  wish  attracts  a 
train  of  preconscious  thoughts — and  subjects  them  to  the  opera- 
tions of  the  unconscious — such  thoughts  are  found  to  be  stripped 
of  their  negative  aspect  when  they  reappear  in  the  conscious  con- 
tent. 

One  example  of  this  process  may  be  seen  in  the  hanging  themes 
in  Loss  of  Breath  and  The  Black  Cat  where,  in  both  cases,  the 
victim  represents  the  penis.  The  hanged  man  thus  represents  the 
rephallization  of  one  who  is  genitally  impotent.  In  the  former, 
it  is  the  author  himself  as  Mr.  Lacko'breath;  in  the  latter,  the 
mother  in  shape  of  the  cat.  The  hanged  man  or  animal  all  the 
more  readily  represents  the  phallus,  in  that  it  is  popularly  thought 
that  hanging  is  accompanied  by  erection  in  extremis.  But,  from  an- 
other angle,  the  fact  that  the  body  hangs  makes  it,  again,  represent 
incapacity  to  achieve  erection  and,  thus,  the  very  negation  of  po- 
tency. In  this  hanging  theme,  therefore,  we  find  two  diametrically 
opposed  ideas  condensed;  virility  and  its  negation. 

Here  we  are  reminded  that  many  languages,  in  the  remote  past, 
attached  opposite  meanings  to  one  and  the  same  word.  Ancient 
Egyptian  offers  many  examples  of  this  and  modern  languages,  also, 
retain  traces  of  the  same  primitive  way  of  condensing  contraries 
in  a  single  form,  thus  associating  them  by  contrast.10  Both  literature 


76  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

and  dreams  take  full  advantage  of  this  mechanism  already  present 
in  the  unconscious.  In  Loss  of  Breath  and  The  Black  Cat,  how- 
ever, it  seems  introduced  as  a  way  of  expressing  deep  irony.  For 
though,  true  enough,  hanging  the  wife  or  woman,  or  again  the 
impotent  man,  on  the  one  hand  expresses  the  phantasy  wish: 
"Were  it  but  otherwise!"  on  the  other,  owing  to  the  mechanism 
of  representation  by  contraries  also  included  here,  a  mechanism 
which  expresses  derision  in  excelsis,  this  reattribution  of  the  phal- 
lus to  Mr.  Lacko'breath  and  the  Black  Cat  is  something  like 
adorning  a  cuckolded  husband  with  horns;  a  mighty  but  derisive 
phallic  symbol.11 

So,  too,  with  the  eternal  wandering  to  which  the  guilty  father  is 
condemned.  The  Man  of  the  Crowd,  the  Wandering  Jew,  the  Fly- 
ing Dutchman  and  the  Wild  Huntsman,  all,  by  contrariety,  namely 
immortality,  represent  their  death  and  the  son's  deep  wish  for  that 
death. 

As  for  cases  where  the  manifest  content  of  a  tale  shows  the  real 
situation  reversed  and  opposite,  these  may  serve,  as  in  dreams, 
to  express  the  wish  for  a  similar  reversal  of  the  situation  and  the 
unconscious  wish:  "If  only  it  were  the  other  way  round!"  The  best 
example  of  this  in  Poe  is  when  M.  Valdemar  is  hypnotized  in 
articulo  mortis.  Here,  Valdemar  or  Valdemar-Griswold-the-Father 
is  represented  as  utterly  and  passively  subject  to  the  son,  who 
only  keeps  him  alive  the  better  to  kill  him;  whereas,  in  reality,  it 
was  Poe  who  was  passive  toward  the  father. 

Thus  the  tale,  through  its  imagery,  almost  openly  expresses  its 
unconscious  intent.  The  fusion  of  many  individuals  into  one  per- 
sonage, which  thus  produces  a  composite  image  as,  for  instance, 
that  of  the  Marchesa  Aphrodite  in  which  Mrs.  Stanard,  Frances 
Allan,  Elmira  Royster  and  Elizabeth  Arnold  are  all  condensed, 
similarly  expresses  and  represents  the  underlying  identity  which 
links  these  different  individuals  in  the  writer's  psyche.  Indeed, 
owing  to  its  predilection  for  condensation,  the  unconscious  seems 
better  fitted  to  express  identity  than  other  relations. 

What  of  tales  such  as  The  Assignation  and  its  absurdities,  even 
in  the  manifest  content?  It  will  be  recalled  that  the  Marchesa 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  77 

Aphrodite — in  such  despair  when  her  babe  falls  into  the  canal 
and  in  such  delight  when  the  "stranger,"  her  lover,  restores  it  to 
her — decides,  in  gratitude,  to  die  with  the  rescuer  next  morning, 
at  the  same  hour,  though  not  in  the  same  place.  This  is  manifestly 
absurd,  for  the  Marchesa  would  thus  abandon  her  passionately 
loved  babe  to  her  husband,  the  stern  old  Marchese,  as  no  Niobe, 
as  she  first  seemed,  would  ever  have  done.  A  second  absurdity  also 
strikes  us  for,  in  rescuing  the  infant,  the  stranger  plunges  into 
the  canal  wrapped  in  a  heavy  cloak.  Yet,  as  we  saw  when  analyz- 
ing this  tale,  these  apparent  absurdities  are  only  the  distorted 
expression  of  a  perfectly  coherent  criticism  by  the  preconscious. 
For,  in  the  unconscious,  the  stranger's  rescue  of  the  drowning  child 
was  equated  with  his  giving  her  a  child.  The  stranger,  however, 
represents  Poe,  as  the  Marchesa  represents  his  mother.  Thus,  this 
absurdity  in  the  manifest  content,  in  its  way,  expresses  the  follow- 
ing pronouncement  in  the  latent  content:  "It  is  absurd  to  think 
I  could  have  had  a  child  by  my  mother.  We  can  never  be  united 
except  in  death."  So  strong,  indeed,  is  the  incest  prohibition  that 
even  though  they  die  at  the  same  moment,  the  lovers  cannot  die 
in  the  same  place. 

This  way  of  expressing  criticism  is  often  encountered  in  dreams 
and  we  see  that  it  is  also  to  be  found  in  literature.  In  dreams,  it 
appears  independent  of  the  criticism  and  conscious  judgments 
which  may  be  expressed  in  the  literary  product  composed,  as  that 
is,  in  the  waking  state. 

However,  we  must  certainly  not  think  that  every  coherent  train 
of  thought  in  creative  writing — especially  in  Poe's  tales — has  its 
validity.  We  must  not,  for  instance,  allow  ourselves  to  be  dazzled 
by  the  ratiocination  which  marks  the  opening  of  The  Murders  in 
the  Rue  Morgue  in  connection  with  exactly  how  much  ingenuity 
is  needed  for  chess  or  mathematics  or  the  analytic  function,  that 
superior  faculty  which,  by  sure  and  subtle  observation,  permits  us 
to  guess  the  thoughts,  feelings  and  acts  of  others.  True,  there  is 
here  a  conscious  echo  (only  partly  true,  however,  for  chess  has 
nothing  to  do  with  mathematics)  of  the  two  main  divisions  of 
mind;  the  geometric  faculty  and  the  faculty  of  discrimination.12 
Predominantly,  however,  the  echo  is  of  something  very  different, 


78  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

namely  memories  of  the  small  Edgar's  infantile  sexual  investiga- 
tions. For  this  highly  developed  analytical  faculty  which  he  attrib- 
utes to  Dupin  would,  indeed,  have  been  necessary  to  the  child 
he  then  was,  in  order  to  solve  the  mysterious  feelings  and  acts  of 
adults.  Strive  as  his  childish  curiosity  might,  that  secret  eluded  him. 
It  is  the  memory  of  this,  to  some  extent,  unsatisfied  sex  curiosity, 
which  is  here  compensated  by  the  triumphs  of  Dupin  the  ratioci- 
nator. 

Thus  we  see  that  the  "ratiocinations"  scattered  through  Poe's 
works  are  not  to  be  taken  at  their  face  value  and  that  even  his 
passion  for  cryptography,  shared  with  Legrand,  may  represent 
something  different.  We  may  conclude,  therefore,  that  reasoning  in 
literature,  as  in  life,  may  be  traversed  by  unconscious  memories 
very  remote  from  what  reason,  apparently,  dictates. 

What  happens,  respectively,  to  feeling,  affect  as  we  say,  in 
dreams  and  literature?  About  dreams,  psychoanalysis  tells  us  that 
"the  ideational  contents  have  undergone  displacements  and  substi- 
tutions, while  the  affects  have  remained  unchanged." 13  Thus, 
dreams  whose  manifest  content  should  imply  terror  may,  neverthe- 
less, totally  lack  that  affect  should  the  latent  dream  thoughts, 
displaced  on  this  part  of  the  dream,  in  themselves  be  pleasurable. 
For  example,  Freud  cites  a  woman's  dream  of  three  lions  advanc- 
ing upon  her  in  which  she  had  no  feeling  of  fear.  And  with  good 
reason  for,  actually,  the  lions  represented  her  charming  father, 
who  had  a  manelike  beard,  her  English  teacher,  Miss  Lyons,  and 
the  composer,  Loewe,  who  had  just  made  her  a  present  of  some 
ballads.  Contrariwise,  some  particular  element  in  the  manifest 
dream,  apparently  unimportant,  may  release  a  powerful  affect 
if  the  latent  thoughts  it  represents  were  originally  invested  with 
such  affect.  Affect  would  thus  appear  to  be  a  constant  but  trans- 
ferable (labile)  emotional  charge,  able  freely  to  displace  itself 
along  the  dream's  associative  paths  without  loss  of  original  in- 
tensity. 

In  other  cases,  however,  the  affect  seems  to  expend  itself  in  this 
process.  Should  the  latent  thought  be  powerfully  charged  with 
emotion  the  manifest  dream  will  lack  affect.  (The  converse,  how- 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  79 

ever,  never  happens.)  This  is  because  conflicting  affects  have 
neutralized  each  other,  producing  what  Freud  calls  "peace  after 
battle." 

Another  way  in  which  affect  is  dealt  with  in  the  latent  thoughts 
causes  reversal  of  the  latter  into  their  contraries.  The  law  of  asso- 
ciation by  contraries  provides  an  ample  basis  for  this  mechanism, 
one  which  is  much  employed  by  the  moral  censor  as,  also,  by  our 
wishes.  Thus  affects,  which  seem  morally  objectionable  to  us, 
may  be  transformed  into  their  opposites,  as  may  painful  affects 
into  pleasant. 

Rather  than  adduce  instances  of  dreams  illustrating  these  vari- 
ous mechanisms,  I  refer  the  reader"  to  the  chapter  in  The  Inter- 
pretation of  Dreams  from  which  I  have  quoted.  I  shall  confine 
myself  to  demonstrating  that  these  mechanisms  may  be  found  in 
literature  and  in  Poe. 

Loss  of  Breath  provides  a  typical  instance  of  reversed  affect. 
What  more  tragic,  indeed,  for  one  who  is  impotent  than  the  loss 
of  potency?  Yet  Poe's  story,  in  which  this  confession  of  impotence 
is  made,  is  saturated  with  buffoonish  affect.  At  times,  this  buffoon- 
ery rings  false  and  the  basic  and  tragic  affect  manages  to  pierce 
through. 

Again,  the  affect  of  great  sadness  doubtless  experienced  by  Poe 
in  connection  with  his  addiction  to  alcohol,  with  all  the  profound 
infantile  fixations  and  frustrated  primal  loves  that  covered,  under- 
goes the  same  reversal  into  its  opposite  in  The  Angel  of  the  Odd, 
a  tale  also  intentionally  buffoonish  and  extravagant,  and  far  more 
successfully  than  Loss  of  Breath.  In  general,  all  Poe's  tales,  in- 
tended by  him  as  burlesques,  have  similar  foundations;  a  tragic 
affect,  by  reversal,  is  converted  into  its  opposite  and  comic  affect. 
As  it  happens,  however,  these  reversals  are  never  wholly  suc- 
cessful; Poe's  laughter  is  anything  but  contagious;  it  is  always  a 
ghastly  grin. 

Per  contra,  that  other  mechanism,  the  apparent  suppression  of 
affect,  is  dealt  with  successfully  in  The  Mystery  of  Marie  Roget, 
though  to  the  prejudice  of  the  dramatic  effect.  Possibly,  this  is 
because  it  is  Poe's  only  tale  in  which  the  theme  is  manifestly  sexual. 
Here,  that  mighty  adversary,  instinct,  has  thrown  aside  its  dis- 


80  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

guise,  whereupon  all  the  forces  of  the  moral  censor  draw  up  in 
line;  the  result  is  that  a  too  equally  matched  struggle  ensues  and, 
as  a  result,  that  "peace  after  battle"  which  we  have  already  noted. 
Thus,  this  story  of  the  raped  and  strangled  scent-shop  assistant 
leaves  us  indifferent  whereas,  in  The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue, 
we  are  moved  to  the  depths  by  gripping  instinctual  affects  which 
have  succeeded  in  evading  the  censor  in  the  simian  or  other  dis- 
guises they  were  able  to  adopt. 

Possibly  why  certain  works  leave  us  cold  when,  to  the  author, 
they  seem  full  of  fire  and  inspiration,  is  because  a  similar  conflict 
between  opposed  affects  has  neutralized  them  out. 

Nevertheless,  the  process  to  which  affects  are  subjected,  that 
which  we  meet  most  generally  in  Poe,  especially  in  his  finest  stories, 
is  of  a  wholly  different  order.  In  dreams  and  their  elaboration,  we 
regularly  find  that  the  unconscious  affects,  originally  bound  to 
significant  but  repressed  representations,  are  transferred  to  repre- 
sentations which  have  generally  arisen  during  the  foregoing  day. 
Often,  it  is  as  though  their  very  unimportance  determined  the 
selection  of  the  recent  representations  to  which  such  affects  are 
transferred,  a  phenomenon  which,  for  ages,  has  attracted  the  no- 
tice of  those  interested  in  dreams.  Freud  has  demonstrated  that 
such  a  choice,  in  fact,  appears  to  be  determined  by  the  moral 
censor,  in  order  that  the  latent  meaning  of  the  dream  be  concealed. 
Nonetheless,  what  remains  of  the  day's  experiences  and  links  up 
with  our  earliest,  strongest  and  most  repressed  wishes,  must  con- 
ceal some  associative  bond  with  the  deeper  desires  which  are  seek- 
ing expression. 

In  Poe's  works,  as  doubtless  in  creative  art  generally — where 
the  artist's  purpose  is,  as  it  were,  to  instill  his  own  unconscious 
affect  into  the  unconscious  of  his  audience  or,  more  exactly,  to 
make  both  unconsciouses  vibrate  as  one — what  is  of  prime  im- 
portance is  that,  as  perceived,  this  transposition  should  be  as  close 
as  possible,  in  affect,  to  the  degree  of  affect  it  is  intended  to  pass 
on.  A  massing  of  affects  then  takes  place,  a  massing  utilized  by 
the  censor  to  distribute  affect  as  it  will.  No  instance  better  reveals 
this  mechanism  than  The  Pit  and  the  Pendulum,  where  the  deep 
and  unconscious  affects  which  are  to  enter  the  very  unconscious 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  81 

of  the  reader  are,  in  effect,  linked  with  representations  of  an 
especially  infantile  and  deeply  repressed  nature;  wish-phantasies  to 
possess  the  mother  in  intra-cloacal  fashion  and  passive  homo- 
sexual wish-phantasies  toward  the  father.  All  this,  the  inner  in- 
spiration of  the  tale  and  doubtless  its  original  source,  could  never 
be  conveyed,  unchanged,  to  the  reader  since,  far  from  pleasing 
him,  his  own  repressions  would  cause  him  to  shrink  as,  doubtless, 
many  of  our  readers  have  already  shrunk  from  our  interpretations. 
Thus,  the  censor  demands  a  displacement,  but  the  process  or  in- 
stance, to  which  we  shall  later  revert,  which  in  our  half-waking 
dreams  determines  the  secondary  elaboration  of  the  dream  and 
which,  during  the  day,  merges  with  our  preconscious  waking 
thoughts,  this  instance  determines  a  displacement  on  objects  en- 
dowed with  affects  analogous  to  the  profound  affect  it  is  intended 
to  release.  These  new  manifest  representations  will  still  betray,  to 
those  with  eyes  to  see,  the  deeper  and  original  underlying  repre- 
sentations; the  phallic  swinging  pendulum  and  the  cloacal  pit.  But 
the  mighty  and  primal  wish-affects  bound  up  with  these  repre- 
sentations, once  they  have  been  repressed,  cannot  again  emerge 
save  as  painfully  charged  anxiety.  Thereupon,  the  wished-for  pen- 
dulum, and  the  longed-for  pit,  must  themselves  be  invested  with 
anxiety  and  must  convey  terror.  In  this  manner,  affect  is  piled-up 
with  maximum  effect  and  the  manifest  content  of  the  tale  will 
contain  a  sort  of  preliminary  premium  of  anxiety  to  serve  as  the 
magnet  to  draw  out  and  explode  the  deep,  unconscious  anxiety 
thus  liberated.  Meanwhile,  the  censor's  behest  is  also  obeyed  and 
carried  out,  for  the  reader  may  think  that  the  terror,  released  by 
the  tale,  is  merely  what  anyone  would  feel  in  the  cells  of  the 
Inquisition. 

A  certain  analogy  may  be  noted  here  with  what  happens  in  the 
formation  of  many  neurotic  symptoms.  The  phobia  of  fearing  to 
cross  streets  because  of  automobiles,  for  instance,  is  rational  in 
part,  since  motorcars  kill  people.  People  with  this  phobia  thus 
manage  to  justify  themselves  as  regards  their  affect.  But  the 
quantity  of  this  affect  is  not  justified  by  the  manifest  representa- 
tion of  such  a  problematic  disaster,  and  can  only  be  explained  by 


82  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

overdetermined  affect,  resulting  from  affects  which  have  re-emerged 
from  deep  and  hidden  sources  in  the  unconscious. 

The  overwhelming  anxiety  with  which  all  Poe's  greatest  tales 
are  charged  issues  exclusively  from  this  source.  In  each  instance 
the  preconscious  selects  a  manifest  representation  associated  with 
painful  affect,  as  a  result  of  which  preliminary  premium  of  anxiety, 
the  underlying  unconscious  anxiety  can  be  discharged.  In  such 
manner  were  liberated  the  mighty  affects  we  feel,  for  instance,  in 
Berenice,  Ligeia,  The  Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher,  The  Murders 
in  the  Rue  Morgue,  The  Tell-Tale  Heart  and  The  Black  Cat. 

Of  the  last  and  remaining  factor  in  dream  formation,  secondary 
elaboration,  we  may  say  that,  in  creative  writing,  it  is  entirely 
merged  with  the  processes  of  preconscious  waking  thought  and 
that  a  derivative  process  is  the  more  or  less  wakeful  residue  of  the 
day's  thoughts,  active  in  dreams.  It  is  this  secondary  elaboration 
which,  in  dreams,  when  the  opportunity  offers,  corrects  too  fla- 
grant absurdities  and  establishes  a  new  and  manifest  coherence 
between  the  latent  and  scattered  thoughts  which  often  differs 
greatly  from  their  original  latent  coherence:  in  short,  it  subjects 
the  dream  to  the  censorship  of  logic  and  criticism.  As  regards  the 
inner  coherence,  however,  of  literary  works,  this  is  established  by 
the  waking  preconscious  thoughts  which  select  or  reject  the  ele- 
ments suggested  in  the  primary  unconscious  elaboration  of  the 
latent  thoughts,  eliminate  what  is  too  absurd  or  shocking  and  set 
up  new  logical  connections  between  what  is  kept.  In  short,  they 
are  incessantly  at  work  criticizing  and  constructing  in  order  to 
fit,  to  our  most  deeply  repressed  desires,  that  conscious,  logical 
and  aesthetic  facade  which  we  call  creative  writing  and  which,  it 
must  never  be  forgotten,  generally  presents  itself  with  a  coherence 
very  different  from  that  which  prevails  in  the  preconscious  and 
primitive  thoughts  which  inspire  works  of  art. 

Nevertheless,  despite  the  essential  differences  which  mark  off 
literary,  from  dream,  creation — the  lesser  mental  and  psychic  re- 
gression which  materializes  even  the  most  abstract  thought  as 
hallucination;  the  egotism,  so  far  better  masked  than  in  dreams; 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  83 

the  aesthetic  pleasure-premium  which  allows  repressed  desires  to 
manifest  themselves  with  impunity  and  with  equal  impunity  be 
experienced  by  others — despite  these  differences  which  make  cre- 
ative writing,  contrary  to  the  dream,  a  social  product  which  all 
may  share,  dreams  and  art  fulfill  an  analogous  function  as  regards 
the  human  psyche.  Both,  in  fact,  act  as  safety  valves  to  humanity's 
overrepressed  instincts. 

At  night,  when  sleep  commands  immobility,  we  can  dream  with 
impunity,  to  others  or  ourselves,  of  all  we  covet  and  are  refused 
by  life;  murder  even,  or  incest.  During  the  day,  we  can  also 
abandon  ourselves  to  our  daydreams  and  be  similarly  immobile, 
thus  inhibiting  our  dangerous  motor  activities.  But  there  are  men 
with  a  mysterious  gift  who  can  clothe  these  daydreams  and  Active 
instinctual  gratifications  in  forms  which  allow  others,  also,  to 
dream  their  dreams  with  them.  How  this  is  done,  and  what  is  the 
nature  of  the  pleasure-premium  of  form  and  beauty  which  draws 
their  fellows,  is  an  aesthetic  problem  still  unsolved.  Nor  has  psy- 
choanalysis really  succeeded  in  explaining  it,  despite  the  depths  to 
which  it  has  probed  the  psyche.  Freud  merely  asks  us  to  note  that 
aesthetic  feeling  seems  related  to  erotic  emotion,  though  subli- 
mated, it  is  true.14  This,  Plato  had  already  divined  in  the  Phaedrus, 
where  the  love  of  beautiful  youths  was  suggested  as  the  first  step 
to  love  of  the  Beautiful. 

Meanwhile,  psychoanalysis  has  taught  us  that,  throughout  our 
lives,  emotively  and  in  disguised  ways  we  repeat  the  affective  ex- 
periences of  our  childhood.  The  artist,  who  creates  beauty,  is  no 
less  subject  to  this  law  and,  possibly,  is  even  more  so  than  others, 
due  to  his  essentially  narcissistic  make-up.  We  may  therefore  well 
assume  that  his  particular  aesthetic  will  be  colored  by  his  first  love 
relations.  Since,  for  all  human  beings  the  first  love  object  was  the 
nurturer  or  mother,  it  will  not  surprise  us  to  observe  that  the 
aesthetic  ideal  of  an  artist  presenting  necrophilist  features,  such 
as  Poe,  for  instance,  wears  the  hues  of  the  mother's  death.  In 
the  most  literal  sense,  all  beauty,  for  Poe,  whether  in  woman  or 
nature,  in  faces  or  scenes,  was  "drawn  from  the  cheeks"  of  the 
cherished  and  dying  mother. 

We  agreed  that  there  are  artists  whose  aesthetic  ideal  appears 


84  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

less  directly  derived  from  the  concrete  qualities  of  an  infantile  love 
object;  artists  with  whom  we  could  not  thus  hark  back  to  the 
source.  Nor  need  the  mother,  indeed,  be  the  only  origin  of  the 
artist's  aesthetic  ideal.  The  love  which  every  child,  at  some  time 
or  other,  feels  for  the  father,  must  contribute  distinctively  mascu- 
line and  active  characteristics  to  any  aesthetic  ideal,  as  we  find 
also  in  Poe. 

Nor  must  we  forget  the  further  fact  that  all  love  feeling  is  dual, 
and  comprises  the  loved  object  and  loving  subject.  Earlier,  we 
dealt  with  the  qualities  the  artist's  aesthetic  ideal  borrowed  from 
his  infancy's  love  objects.  But  there  are  also  differences  in  the 
manner  in  which  people  love;  differences  conditioned  by  constitu- 
tion, heredity  and  infantile  happenings  which  modify  the  develop- 
ing libido  and  by  the  greater,  or  less,  congenital  strength  of  one 
or  other  libidinal  factors  such  as  sadism,  voyeurism  and  the  rest. 
We  must  therefore  distinguish  between  the  kind  of  aesthetic  emo- 
tion in  a  given  artist,  and  the  nature  of  his  aesthetic  ideal. 

Clearly,  the  former  is  least  accessible  to  our  enquiries  as  con- 
taining factors  impossible  to  trace;  factors  such  as  the  original 
strength  of  the  libido  and  its  diverse  elements  and  their  greater, 
or  less,  resistance  or  plasticity  to  educative  pressure  and  their 
greater,  or  less,  capacity  for  sublimation:  in  short,  all  those  hered- 
itary and  constitutional  biological  and  sexual  factors  before  which 
psychoanalytic  investigation  must,  perforce,  halt. 

Nevertheless,  whatever  the  artist's  primary  make-up  and  how- 
ever the  form  of  his  aesthetic — that  glittering  veil  which  he  wraps 
about  his  and  our  own  deepest  instincts,  instincts  which  his  con- 
temporaries would  often  condemn — the  elaboration,  like  the  func- 
tion of  the  work  of  art,  is  always  the  same. 

With  the  elaboration-mechanisms  in  creative  writing  we  have 
already  dealt  at  length.  Their  function,  as  we  have  shown,  is  that 
of  a  safety  valve  for  our  overrepressed  instincts.  It  now  remains 
for  us  to  show,  with  Poe  as  our  example,  that  this  safety  valve 
operates  under  waking  conditions  exactly  as  do  dreams  in  respect 
to  our  instincts. 

To  that  end,  we  once  more  revert  to  Freud's  famous  comparison 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  85 

dealing  with  dream  formation.  Recent  events  in  the  sleeper's  life — 
the  so-called  residue  of  the  day — may  be  likened  to  the  entre- 
preneur of  economic  theory.  But  the  entrepreneur  can  accomplish 
nothing  without  capital!  The  capital  of  the  dream  is  furnished  by 
the  ancient,  archaic,  infantile  wishes  reactivated  by  the  happenings 
of  the  day,  for  these  last,  even  when  most  vivid  in  consciousness, 
of  themselves  would  be  unable  to  activate  the  dream  activity.  The 
genesis  of  works  of  art  may  be  similarly  described. 

Whereas,  in  many  of  Poe's  tales,  the  elements  in  this  partner- 
ship perforce  elude  us,  in  so  far  as  concerns  the  factors  which 
inspired  the  creative  process,  in  others  it  stands  clearly  revealed. 

From  the  available  evidence,  it  would  seem  clear  that  Berenice, 
Morella  and  Ligeia  came  into  being  as  a  result  of  the  carnal  temp- 
tations experienced  by  Poe  at  finding  himself  near  to  his  young 
cousin  Virginia,  when  first  staying  with  his  aunt,  Mrs.  Clemm. 
Another  man,  however,  might  have  seen  Virginia  without  wishing 
to  marry  her,  or  being  inspired  to  write  Berenice  or  Ligeia.  Vir- 
ginia here,  therefore,  represents  the  entrepreneur,  but  the  capital 
for  the  undertaking  could  only  have  been  furnished  by  Poe's  rich 
store  of  buried  sadistic,  necrophilism  infantile  memories  which, 
with  his  mother's  corpse,  lurked  deep  in  his  unconscious. 

So,  too,  with  The  Black  Cat.  The  residual  material  of  the  day, 
in  this  nightmare  tale,  came  from  his  family  life  with  the  dying 
Virginia.  Was  not  Catterina,  the  cat,  her  constant  companion  in 
their  cottage?  When,  in  winter,  they  lacked  fuel  and  the  poor, 
weak,  blood-spitting  consumptive  was  forced  to  remain  in  bed, 
would  not  the  cat  curl  on  her  bosom  as  if  to  warm  her?  Never- 
theless, touching  and  pitiful  though  this  was,  it  would  never  have 
inspired  The  Black  Cat,  had  not  the  treasure  of  stored-up,  ancient, 
sadistic  urges  bound,  in  Poe's  unconscious,  with  his  dead  or  dying 
mother,  been  stored  up  already  in  his  soul  to  furnish  the  Virginia- 
Catterina  enterprise  with  that  once  amassed  capital. 

The  actual  impetus  to  write  The  Gold  Bug  was  doubtless  com- 
municated to  Poe  by  his  poverty,  and  the  wish  to  change  it  for 
something  better.  Did  he  not,  in  fact,  write  it  to  compete  for  a 
prize  of  $100,  a  competition  in  which  he  was  successful?  Yet  all 
his  real  desires  for  riches  would  never  have  lent  such  glamour  to 


86  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Captain  Kidd's  treasure  but  for  its  latent  meaning,  one  so  inti- 
mately bound  with  his  deepest,  most  primitive,  instincts.  For,  be- 
yond the  memory  of  Frances  Allan  and  her  motherly  generosity, 
there  still  lay  the  mystery  surrounding  the  birth  of  Rosalie  who, 
as  a  babe,  had  accompanied  him,  and  their  mother,  to  the  very 
shores  where  Kidd  once  buried  his  treasure. 

Thus,  works  of  art,  like  dreams,  reveal  themselves  as  phantom 
presences  which  tower  over  our  lives,  with  one  foot  in  the  past 
and  one  in  the  present.  The  phantom's  face,  however,  turns  to  the 
future,  due  to  the  sovereign  wish  it  embodies;  a  wish  which  in- 
spires our  every  activity.  That  is  why  dreams,  at  times,  seem  pro- 
phetic; namely,  when  our  more  or  less  unconscious  efforts  succeed 
in  achieving  the  wish  they  express.  But,  since  such  wishes  are  still 
more  generally  condemned  by  our  consciences  than  externally 
thwarted,  few  of  our  dreams,  indeed,  come  to  pass!  The  same  pro- 
hibitions are  at  work  in  art.  Though  The  Gold  Bug  may  have  won 
Poe  $100  and,  next  to  The  Raven,  his  greatest  success,  he  would 
never,  in  fact,  be  able  to  gratify  the  murderous,  sadistic  urges  he 
expresses  in  The  Black  Cat.  Nevertheless,  by  choosing  an  obvi- 
ously consumptive  girl  for  his  wife,  the  dreamer-necrophilist  Poe 
found  means  to  stage  the  sadistic  drama,  for  himself,  of  an  agoniz- 
ing death  like  that  he  had  watched  so  breathlessly  as  a  child.  Thus 
his  heroines,  Berenice,  Morella,  Ligeia,  Madeline  and  Eleanora, 
seem  prophetically  to  anticipate  his  own  adored  wife's  fate. 

Edgar  Allan  Poe,  doubtless,  had  never  any  clear  realization  of 
the  memories  he  thus  immortalized  in  his  works,  nor  of  the  fearful 
nature  of  his  own  sexuality.  True,  he  did,  at  times,  say  he  was 
haunted  by  a  "terrible  mystery"  but,  what  that  was,  he  could  not 
say.  As  to  sex,  he  denied  and  suppressed,  in  himself,  every  sexual 
manifestation  to  a  love  object,  though  "etherealizing"  its  every 
grim  aspect  in  his  works. 

Yet,  what  lay  deepest  below  Poe's  works  was  as  clearly  sensed 
by  others,  as  it  was  little  understood  by  Poe.  Plead  chastity's  cause 
as  it  might,  Poe's  opus,  to  many,  seemed  to  embody  all  evil,  per- 
versity and  crime.  To  some,  indeed,  Poe  seemed  little  better  than 
a  confirmed  criminal.  Apart  from  the  bad  poet's  natural  envy  of 


Poe  and  the  Function  of  Literature  87 

the  good,  and  the  old  male  rivalry  for  Mrs.  Osgood's  diaphanous 
graces,  much  of  the  same  sincere  indignation  doubtless  dictated 
the  ex-cleric's,  Rufus  Griswold's,  condemnatory  attitude  to  Poe. 
This  is  the  only  circumstance  that  extenuates  Griswold's  malevo- 
lent publication  of  the  "Ludwig  Article"  15  the  very  day  after  his 
death,  and  his  issue  of  the  venomous  Memoir  which,  as  executor, 
he  prefaced  to  the  posthumous  edition  of  Poe's  works. 

Nevertheless,  the  supreme,  forbidden,  instinctual  urges  thus  sung 
by  Poe;  urges  which  he  himself  hardly  comprehended  and  which 
exceed  those  our  love  instinct  is  permitted  to  gratify,  cast  such  a 
spell  on  mankind  that  even  in  his  life  there  rose  a  chorus  of 
adulation. 

Women,  in  particular,  were  conquered  by  his  works  as,  indeed, 
they  are  so  often  by  sadism.  Mrs.  Whitman  and  Mrs.  Shelton 
would  have  wedded  the  Raven  and  Mrs.  Shew  and  Mrs.  Richmond 
mothered  and  consoled  him. 

Soaring  far  over  the  Atlantic,  Poe's  sado-necrophilist  genius  was 
destined  to  awake,  in  other  countries  and  hearts,  the  same  mighty 
and  eternal  instincts  of  those  who  recognized  themselves  in  him. 


1  Collected  Papers,  Vol.  IV,  pp.  173-183. 

2  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  pp.  468-9. 

3  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  p.  332. 

4  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  pp.  282-3. 

5  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  pp.  308-9. 
8  Collected  Papers,  Vol.  IV,  p.  180. 

7  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  pp.  296  ff.  (The  Means  of  Representation 
in  Dreams). 

8  Ibid.,  p.  545. 

9  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  p.  302. 

10  Cf.  Freud,  The  Antithetical  Sense  of  Primal  Words,  Collected  Papers, 
Vol.  IV,  pp.  184-191.  In  this  essay  Freud  quotes  from  a  work,  dated  1884, 
by  the  philologist  Karl  Abel. 

11  Cf.  Marie  Bonaparte,  "Du  Symbolisme  des  trophies  de  tete,"  Revue 
frangaise  de  psychanalyse  (1927),  tome.  I,  fasc.  4. 

12  Difference  entre  V esprit  de  geometrie  et  Vesprit  de  finesse.  Pascal, 
Pensies:  I.  1.  2.  4. 

18  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams,  p.  426. 

14  "I  have  no  doubt  that  the  conception  of  the  'beautiful'  is  rooted  in  the 
soil  of  sexual  stimulation  and  signified  originally  that  which  is  sexually  ex- 
citing. The  more  remarkable,  therefore,  is  the  fact  that  the  genitals,  the 


88  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

sight  of  which  provokes  the  greatest  sexual  excitement,  can  really  never  be 
considered  'beautiful.' "  Freud,  Three  Contributions  to  the  Theory  of  Sex, 
p.  20,  footnote. 

Freud  has  returned  to  the  same  idea  on  other  occasions  in  the  same  work. 
See  also  Chapter  II  of  Civilization  and  its  Discontents. 

15  R.  W.  Griswold,  The  "Ludwig  Article,"  New  York  Tribune  (Evening 
Edition),  October  9,  1849  (Virginia  Edition,  Vol.  1,  pp.  348-359). 


Saul  Rosenzweig 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James 


Among  the  tales  of  Henry  James  is  a  super- 
natural series  composed  during  the  final  third  of  his  life  and 
peopled  by  ghosts  of  a  character  utterly  Jamesian.  It  is  the  pecu- 
liarity of  these  wraiths  which  merits  special  attention  at  this  cen- 
tenary of  the  author's  birth;  for,  unlike  the  ordinary  creatures  of 
their  kind,  they  fail  to  represent  the  remnants  of  once-lived  lives 
but  point  instead  to  the  irrepressible  unlived  life.  To  consider  these 
ghosts  in  their  significance  for  him  is  a  fitting  expression  of  in- 
terest in  James's  immortality. 

Weirdly  enough,  these  apparitions  lead  back  to  their  point  of 
origin  in  James's  first  published  tale,  "The  Story  of  a  Year,"  which 
appeared  in  the  pages  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly  for  March,  1865. 
Here  at  the  very  outset  was  announced  that  "death"  which  spoke 
more  elusively  in  his  earlier  writings,  and  more  explicitly  provided 
toward  the  end  the  basis  for  his  literary  specters.  It  was,  in  short, 
the  story  of  his  own  life — written  prophetically,  and  published  at 
the  early  age  of  twenty-two;  complemented  in  too  perfect  a  fashion 
for  other  interpretation  by  the  tales  of  his  later  years;  and  clarified 
autobiographically  in  the  last  full  book  he  lived  to  complete.  Sin- 

89 


90  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

gularly  this  tale  has  never  been  reprinted,  though,  as  every  reader 
of  James  is  aware,  most  of  his  other  short  stories  have  appeared 
in  collected  form  once  at  least;  many  of  them  more  than  once. 

The  story  may  be  more  significantly  reviewed  after  some  facts 
of  James's  early  life  have  been  recalled.  The  second  child  of 
Henry  James,  the  theological  and  semiphilosophical  writer  (Wil- 
liam James,  the  famous  psychologist,  having  been  by  but  a  little 
over  a  year  the  first),  Henry  James,  the  novelist,  spent  his  earliest 
days  in  a  household  richly  gifted  with  intellectual  fare  and  gra- 
cious cheer.  The  father  was  a  strongly  individual  student  of  cosmic 
problems  which  for  a  period  brought  him  into  close  association 
with  the  transcendentalist  group  of  Concord  and  Boston.  Emerson 
was  a  close  friend,  as  were  also  many  other  literary  and  scholarly 
figures  of  the  time.  His  books  dealt  with  religious  questions,  such 
as  the  nature  of  evil,  and  with  social  problems,  like  those  of  mar- 
riage and  divorce,  in  which  the  relation  of  the  individual  to  society 
occupied  a  central  place.  His  views  were  distinctly  unconventional. 
Though  he  was  at  various  times  an  enthusiastic  student  of  Fourier 
and  Swedenborg,  he  was  never  a  mere  disciple — the  individualistic 
stamp  was  too  strong  on  all  he  thought  and  wrote.  Indeed,  this 
markedly  idiosyncratic  bias  made  his  books,  despite  their  vivid 
language  and  command  of  style,  accessible  to  a  very  limited  audi- 
ence. The  majority  tended  to  be  of  a  mind  with  the  reviewer  who 
said  of  "The  Secret  of  Swedenborg"  that  the  elder  James  had  not 
only  written  about  the  secret  of  Swedenborg  but  that  he  had  kept 
it.  One  is  inevitably  reminded  of  the  similar  quips  with  which  the 
works  of  his  son  and  namesake  were  later  received;  for  example, 
the  comment  in  Life  expressing  the  hope  that  Henry  James  would 
sharpen  his  point  of  view  and  then  stick  himself  with  it,  and  Mark 
Twain's  avowal  that  he  would  rather  be  damned  to  John  Bunyan's 
heaven  than  have  to  read  The  Bostonians. 

The  early  life  of  the  elder  James  is  not  without  interest  in  the 
present  context,  especially  as  concerns  an  accident  which  befell 
him  at  the  age  of  thirteen  and  which  left  its  mark  upon  him  for 
the  rest  of  his  life.  While  a  schoolboy  at  the  Albany  Academy,  he 
formed  one  of  a  group  who  used  to  meet  in  a  nearby  park  for  ex- 
periments in  balloon  flying.  The  motive  power  for  the  balloon  was 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  91 

furnished  by  a  ball  of  tow  soaked  in  turpentine.  The  ball  would 
drop  when  the  balloon  caught  fire,  and  the  boys  would  then  kick 
the  ball  around  for  their  amusement.  During  one  of  these  experi- 
ments, when  Henry's  pantaloons  had  by  chance  got  sprinkled  with 
turpentine,  one  of  the  balls  came  flying  through  the  open  window 
of  a  stable.  The  boy  in  an  attempt  to  put  out  the  fire,  which  would 
otherwise  have  consumed  the  building,  rushed  to  the  hayloft  and 
stamped  out  the  flame.  In  doing  so  he  burnt  his  leg  severely  and 
had  to  remain  in  bed  for  the  next  two  years.  A  double  amputation 
above  the  knee  proved  necessary.  He  had  a  wooden  leg  in  later 
years  and  was  prevented  by  his  infirmity  from  leading  a  very  active 
life.  Fortunately  he  had  inherited  sufficient  money  from  his  father 
— an  influential  and  wealthy  citizen  of  Albany — to  obviate  any 
routine  means  of  earning  a  livelihood.  Accordingly,  the  children 
of  Henry  James  were  much  more  closely  companioned  by  him  than 
would  otherwise  have  been  possible,  and  it  is  thus  easier  to  un- 
derstand that  the  strength  of  character  which  he  had  should  have 
left  so  strong  an  impression  upon  their  young  personalities.  In  his 
Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother  (p.  192),  the  son  Henry  refers  to 
his  father's  handicap  and  couples  the  latter's  acceptance  of  it  with 
a  further  resignation  to  the  lack  of  worldly  recognition  the  mes- 
sage of  his  books  received.  The  similarity  to  the  son's  own  fate 
is  again  noteworthy,  not  merely  for  their  both  having  been  neg- 
lected by  the  general  public — a  circumstance  already  mentioned — 
but  for  their  common  lot  of  infirmity. 

The  particular  infirmity  of  the  son  must  at  the  very  outset  be 
recognized  as  having  established  itself  upon  fertile  soil.  Henry  was 
apparently  always  unsure  of  himself.  As  a  boy  his  incapacity  for 
athletics  and  for  schoolwork  equally  stood  out  in  his  impressions 
although  he  occupied  the  place  of  favorite  in  his  mother's  affec- 
tions. He  was  especially  aware  of  a  certain  inferiority  to  his  older 
and  more  energetic  brother  William — he  has  said  as  much — and 
William  has  in  counterpart  written  in  one  of  his  letters  about 
"innocent  and  at  bottom  very  powerless-feeling  Harry."  But  the 
accident  which  offered  this  general  orientation  a  specific  date  and 
place  for  its  disclosure  is  still  inescapably  important. 

No  better  description  of  it  could  possibly  be  given  than  that 


92  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

which  the  victim  has  himself  provided.  He  is  speaking  in  Notes  of 
a  Son  and  Brother  of  his  year  at  the  Harvard  Law  School,  and 
of  the  inception  of  his  literary  career.  He  continues  (pp.  296  ff.)  : 

Two  things  and  more  had  come  up — the  biggest  of  which,  and 
very  wondrous  as  bearing  on  any  circumstance  of  mine,  as  hav- 
ing a  grain  of  weight  to  spare  for  it,  was  the  breaking  out  of  the 
[Civil]  War.  The  other,  the  infinitely  small  affair  in  comparison, 
was  a  passage  of  personal  history  the  most  entirely  personal,  but 
between  which,  as  a  private  catastrophe  or  difficulty,  bristling 
with  embarrassments,  and  the  great  public  convulsion  that  an- 
nounced itself  in  bigger  terms  each  day,  I  felt  from  the  very  first 
an  association  of  the  closest,  yet  withal,  I  fear,  almost  of  the  least 
clearly  expressible.  Scarce  at  all  to  be  stated,  to  begin  with,  the 
queer  fusion  or  confusion  established  in  my  consciousness  during 
the  soft  spring  of  '61  by  the  firing  on  Fort  Sumter,  Mr.  Lincoln's 
instant  first  call  for  volunteers  and  a  physical  mishap,  already 
referred  to  as  having  overtaken  me  at  the  same  dark  hour,  and 
the  effects  of  which  were  to  draw  themselves  out  incalculably  and 
intolerably.  Beyond  all  present  notation  the  interlaced,  undivided 
way  in  which  what  had  happened  to  me,  by  a  turn  of  fortune's 
hand,  in  twenty  odious  minutes,  kept  company  of  the  most  un- 
natural^— I  can  call  it  nothing  less — with  my  view  of  what  was 
happening,  with  the  question  of  what  might  still  happen,  to 
everyone  about  me,  to  the  country  at  large:  it  so  made  of  these 
marked  disparities  a  single  vast  visitation.  One  had  the  sense,  I 
mean,  of  a  huge  comprehensive  ache,  and  there  were  hours  at 
which  one  could  scarce  have  told  whether  it  came  from  one's 
own  poor  organism,  still  so  young  and  so  meant  for  better  things, 
but  which  had  suffered  particular  wrong,  or  from  the  enclosing 
social  body,  a  body  rent  with  a  thousand  wounds  and  that  thus 
treated  one  to  the  honour  of  a  sort  of  tragic  fellowship.  The  twenty 
minutes  had  sufficed,  at  all  events,  to  establish  a  relation — a  rela- 
tion to  everything  occurring  round  me  not  only  for  the  next  four 
years  but  for  long  afterward — that  was  at  once  extraordinarily 
intimate  and  quite  awkwardly  irrelevant.  I  must  have  felt  in  some 
befooled  way  in  presence  of  a  crisis — the  smoke  of  Charleston 
Bay  still  so  acrid  in  the  air — at  which  the  likely  young  should  be 
up  and  doing  or,  as  familiarly  put,  lend  a  hand  much  wanted;  the 
willing  youths,  all  round,  were  mostly  starting  to  their  feet,  and 
to  have  trumped  up  a  lameness  at  such  a  juncture  could  be  made 
to  pass  in  no  light  for  graceful.  Jammed  into  the  acute  angle  be- 
tween two  high  fences,  where  the  rhythmic  play  of  my  arms,  in 
tune  with  that  of  several  other  pairs,  but  at  a  dire  disadvantage 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  93 

of  position,  induced  a  rural,  a  rusty,  a  quasi-extemporized  old  en- 
gine to  work  and  a  saving  stream  to  flow,  I  had  done  myself,  in 
face  of  a  shabby  conflagration,  a  horrid  even  if  an  obscure  hurt; 
and  what  was  interesting  from  the  first  was  my  not  doubting  in 
the  least  its  duration — though  what  seemed  equally  clear  was  that 
I  needn't  as  a  matter  of  course  adopt  and  appropriate  it,  so  to 
speak,  or  place  it  for  increase  of  interest  on  exhibition.  The  in- 
terest of  it,  I  very  presently  knew,  would  certainly  be  of  the 
greatest,  would  even  in  conditions  kept  as  simple  as  I  might  make 
them  become  little  less  than  absorbing.  The  shortest  account  of 
what  was  to  follow  for  a  long  time  after  is  therefore  to  plead  that 
the  interest  never  did  fail.  It  was  naturally  what  is  called  a  pain- 
ful one,  but  it  consistently  declined,  as  an  influence  at  play,  to 
drop  for  a  single  instant.  Circumstances,  by  a  wonderful  chance, 
overwhelmingly  favored  it — as  an  interest,  an  inexhaustible,  I 
mean;  since  I  also  felt  in  the  whole  enveloping  tonic  atmosphere 
a  force  promoting  its  growth.  Interest,  the  interest  of  life  and  of 
death,  of  our  national  existence,  of  the  fate  of  those,  the  vastly 
numerous,  whom  it  closely  concerned,  the  interest  of  the  extend- 
ing War,  in  fine,  the  hurrying  troops,  the  transfigured  scene, 
formed  a  cover  for  every  sort  of  intensity,  made  tension  itself  in 
fact  contagious — so  that  almost  any  tension  would  do,  would 
serve  for  one's  share. 

Two  points  stand  out  in  these  stirring  words:  first,  James  did 
not  doubt  from  the  beginning  that  his  hurt  would  involve  much 
and  last  long;  and,  second,  he  could  not  view  it  as  a  merely  per- 
sonal experience  but  found  it  indissolubly  united  with  the  war 
which  was  at  that  moment  engulfing  the  entire  nation.  The  former 
consideration  shows  clearly  that  somewhere  in  his  personality  the 
seed  had  been  sown  for  what  had  now  transpired,  despite  the 
appearance  of  mere  accident,  just  as  in  his  later  tale,  "The  Beast 
in  the  Jungle,"  the  hero  knew  without  any  statable  basis  that  he 
would  one  day  suffer  some  extremity  of  disaster  from  which  his 
life  would  acquire  its  significance.  It  may  be  conjectured  from 
what  has  already  been  said  regarding  the  accidental  crippling  of 
the  father  at  the  age  of  thirteen  that  the  dire  experience  of  the 
son  at  eighteen  was  in  some  sense  a  repetition — that  by  one  of 
those  devious  paths  of  identification  which  creates  strange  needs 
in  sensitive  personalities,  Henry  James,  the  son,  while  likewise 
engaged  in  extinguishing  a  fire  may,  if  only  for  a  moment,  have 


94  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

suffered  a  lapse  of  attention  or  alertness,  due  possibly  to  some 
glimmering  association  about  his  father's  accident  on  a  so  similar 
occasion;  and  that  thus  favored,  the  accident  took  effect.1  It  seems 
not  unlikely  that  but  for  this  momentary  incoordination,  the  injury 
— described  somewhere  as  a  sprain — would  not  have  been  sus- 
tained. Such  a  psychological  moment  can  surely  not  be  under- 
estimated by  any  sympathetic  reader  of  James  since  he  himself 
made  of  just  such  minutiae  the  essence  of  his  art.  How  much  the 
proximity  of  the  rhythmically  moving  men  may  have  contributed 
to  the  mental  association  with  the  father  and  the  "lapse"  must 
remain  like  the  lapse  itself  a  matter  of  conjecture.  But  the  pre- 
sumed relationship  to  the  father's  accident  seems  to  explain  the 
son's  avowed  receptivity  for  the  event  and  his  certainty  as  to  its 
consequences. 

These  considerations  also  shed  some  light  upon  the  nature  of  the 
injury,  especially  in  its  psychological  significance.  James  himself 
describes  it  as  "the  most  entirely  personal"  and  as  "a  horrid  even 
if  an  obscure  hurt."  It  is  known  also  that  it  in  some  way  affected 
his  back.  But  the  physical  aspect  which  has  on  occasion  been 
stressed  is  of  purely  secondary  importance.  Paramount  is  the  sub- 
jective depth  of  the  injury  as  James  experienced  it.  Occurring  at 
the  very  outbreak  of  the  war,  the  event  may  well  have  caused  him 
to  suspect  himself  as  an  unconscious  malingerer.  A  complex  of 
guilt  could  thus  have  remained.  Coming  as  it  did  at  a  time  when 
men  were  needed  by  the  country  and  were,  like  his  own  brothers 
Wilky  and  Robertson,  answering  the  call,  the  injury  even  more 
surely  constituted  a  proof  of  his  powerlessness  and  crystallized  a 
sense  of  impotence  from  which  he  never  fully  recovered.  The 
avoidance  of  passion  and  the  overqualification  in  his  later  writings 
are  largely  traceable  to  such  an  implicit  attitude  of  combined  guilt 
and  inferiority;  as  are  also  some  of  his  subsequent  actions  includ- 
ing, as  will  be  pointed  out  presently,  his  participation  in  World 
War  I. 

In  such  a  context  is  understandable  also  his  consternation  after 
having  revealed  his  problem  at  finding  it,  as  he  says  in  Notes  of  a 
Son  and  Brother,  "treated  but  to  a  comparative  pooh-pooh — an 
impression  I  long  looked  back  to  as  a  sharp  parting  of  the  ways, 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  95 

with  an  adoption  of  the  wrong  one  distinctly  determined"  (p.  330). 
The  great  surgeon  to  whom  his  father  conducted  him  for  consulta- 
tion in  Boston  might  at  least  have  offered  some  warning  of  what 
was  in  store.  Obviously,  the  surgeon,  with  a  not  uncommon  lack 
of  interest  in  psychological  implications,  did  not  even  begin  to 
fathom  the  depths  to  which  the  experience  of  his  patient  reached, 
and  the  patient,  feeling  much  from  these  depths,  was  the  more  ap- 
palled at  the  medical  advice  he  received.  Corresponding  to  this  neg- 
ative aspect  is  a  positive  one — the  orientation  which  James  tells  of 
adopting  toward  his  injury  in  trying  to  come  to  terms  with  it.  In  the 
late  summer  of  1861  he  visited  a  camp  of  invalid  and  convalescent 
troops  in  Rhode  Island.  He  had  here  his  "first  and  all  but  sole 
vision  of  the  American  soldier  in  his  multitude,  and  above  all — for 
that  was  markedly  the  colour  of  the  whole  thing — in  his  depres- 
sion, his  wasted  melancholy  almost;  an  effect  that  somehow  cor- 
responds for  memory,  I  bethink  myself,  with  the  tender  elegiac  tone 
in  which  Walt  Whitman  was  later  on  so  admirably  to  commem- 
orate him"  (pp.  310  f.).  James  tells  of  talking  with  the  soldiers 
and  comforting  them  as  he  could,  not  only  with  words  but  by 
"such  pecuniary  solace  as  I  might  at  brief  notice  draw  on  my 
poor  pocket  for.  Yet  again,  as  I  indulge  this  memory,  do  I  feel 
that  I  might  if  pushed  a  little  rejoice  in  having  to  such  an  extent 
coincided  with,  not  to  say  perhaps  positively  anticipated,  dear  old 
Walt — even  if  I  hadn't  come  armed  like  him  with  oranges  and 
peppermints.  I  ministered  much  more  summarily,  though  possibly 
in  proportion  to  the  time  and  thanks  to  my  better  luck  more 
pecuniarily;  but  I  like  to  treat  myself  to  making  out  that  I  can 
scarce  have  brought  to  the  occasion  (in  proportion  to  the  time 
again  and  to  other  elements  of  the  case)  less  of  the  consecrating 
sentiment  than  he"  (pp.  314  f.).  As  he  sailed  back  to  Newport  that 
night  feeling  considerably  the  worse  for  his  exertion  in  his  "im- 
paired state,"  there  established  itself  in  his  mind,  "measuring 
wounds  against  wounds,"  a  correspondence  between  himself  and 
the  soldiers  "less  exaltedly  than  wastefully  engaged  in  the  common 
fact  of  endurance"  (p.  318). 

Another  heartening  aspect  presented  itself  at  the  Harvard  Law 
School,  which  he  at  this  time  attended  for  some  months,  where  the 


96  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

"bristling  horde  of  .  .  .  comrades  fairly  produced  the  illusion 
of  a  mustered  army.  The  Cambridge  campus  was  tented  field 
enough  for  a  conscript  starting  so  compromised;  and  I  can  scarce 
say  moreover  how  easily  it  let  me  down  that  when  it  came  to  the 
point  one  had  still  fine,  fierce  young  men,  in  great  numbers,  for 
company,  there  being  at  the  worst  so  many  such  who  hadn't  flown 
to  arms"  (pp.  301-302). 

His  new  orientation  entailed  a  constructive  step  forward.  In  the 
months  which  followed,  James  turned  to  the  art  of  fiction.  His  first 
published  tale  was,  as  has  already  been  mentioned,  "The  Story  of  a 
Year."  Needless  to  say,  the  story  should  be  read  in  its  original 
form  to  be  fully  appreciated.  Unfortunately  it  is  not  easy  of  access 
since  it  was  never  reprinted,  but  a  synopsis,  however  lacking  artisti- 
cally, may  convey  certain  essentials  of  the  plot  which  are  needed 
here. 

John  Ford  has  a  second  lieutenancy  in  the  Northern  Army  and 
is  about  to  leave  for  the  war.  On  a  long  walk  just  before  his  de- 
parture he  proposes  marriage  to  the  ward  of  his  widowed  mother. 
The  girl  is  named  Elizabeth,  or  Lizzie,  Crowe.  She  is  a  simple, 
pretty  creature  who  is  overjoyed  at  the  prospect  of  marriage,  but 
he  exacts  from  her  the  promise  that  if  anything  should  happen  to 
him  in  the  war,  she  will  forget  him  and  accept  the  love  of  another. 
He  also  cautions  that,  to  avoid  gossip,  it  may  be  better  to  keep  the 
engagement  a  secret,  but  he  does  not  bind  her  on  this  point.  On 
getting  home  the  girl  goes  to  her  room,  while  he  tells  his  mother 
of  the  engagement.  Mrs.  Ford  is  definitely  against  the  match  be- 
cause she  thinks  Elizabeth  shallow  and  not  good  enough  for  him. 
(The  author  suggests  that,  having  been  a  good  mother,  Mrs.  Ford 
would  have  liked  for  her  son  to  choose  a  woman  on  her  own 
model. )  He  refuses  to  accept  his  mother's  judgment  about  the  girl, 
but  tries  to  avoid  contention  on  his  last  night  at  home.  He  asks  his 
mother  not  to  discuss  the  matter  with  Elizabeth. 

After  he  is  gone  the  two  women  say  nothing  about  the  engage- 
ment to  each  other  at  any  time,  but  the  mother  has  her  secret  plans. 
When  Elizabeth's  first  blush  of  excitement  is  over,  she  is  sent  by 
Mrs.  Ford  on  a  visit  to  a  friend  in  another  city  and  there,  decked 
out  in  finery  of  her  guardian's  making,  she  soon  wins  another 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  97 

suitor — Bruce.  When  she  leaves  for  home,  he  comes  to  the  train 
to  see  her  off  and  accidentally  shows  her  the  newspaper  which  con- 
tains the  announcement  of  Ford's  having  been  severely  wounded. 
Elizabeth  is  in  great  conflict  and  now  avoids  Bruce,  who  would 
accompany  her  to  the  next  station.  When  Elizabeth  reaches  home, 
Mrs.  Ford  states  her  intention  of  going  to  nurse  her  son — the  very 
thing  the  girl  had  planned  to  do  herself;  but  Lizzie  is  strangely 
relieved  by  this  shift  of  responsibility.  She  stays  at  home,  while 
Mrs.  Ford  goes  off. 

Elizabeth  now  dreams  one  night  that  she  is  walking  with  a  tall 
dark  man  who  calls  her  wife.  In  the  shadow  of  a  tree  they  find  an 
unburied  male  corpse  covered  with  wounds.  Elizabeth  proposes 
that  a  grave  be  dug,  but  as  they  lift  the  corpse  it  suddenly  opens 
its  eyes  and  says  "Amen."  She  and  her  companion  place  it  in  the 
grave  and  stamp  the  earth  down  with  their  feet. 

Various  changes  occur — Ford  gets  better,  gets  worse,  etc.,  and 
at  one  point  when  it  seems  he  is  dying,  Elizabeth  accepts  Bruce, 
who  is  visiting  in  the  town  at  the  time.  But  Ford  unexpectedly  has 
a  turn  for  the  better  and  is  brought  home  to  be  nursed.  His  mother 
manages  to  keep  Elizabeth  away  from  him  for  some  time.  When 
first  rejected  at  his  door,  Lizzie  wraps  a  blanket  around  herself 
and  goes  out  on  the  steps.  Bruce  comes  by,  but  she  will  not  talk 
with  him  and  leaves  him  standing  there  stupefied.  The  next  day  she 
manages  to  get  into  Jack's  room,  and  he  appears  to  recognize  her. 
When  Mrs.  Ford  learns  of  this  visit,  she  is  very  angry,  but  Jack 
asks  for  Elizabeth  to  come  again.  This  time  he  explains  to  her  that 
he  knows  he  is  going  to  die.  He  is,  however,  glad  that  she  has  found 
someone  else  and  blesses  them  both.  He  asks  Elizabeth  to  be  kind 
to  his  mother.  He  dies.  The  next  day  Elizabeth  encounters  Bruce, 
but  she  is  willing  only  to  say  farewell.  She  says  she  must  do  justice 
to  her  old  love.  She  forbids  Bruce  to  follow  her.  "But  for  all  that 
he  went  in." 

The  story  has  today  a  timely  interest  of  a  general  sort  since  it 
embodies  a  type  of  problem  confronting  many  young  men  and 
women  in  the  confused  contemporary  world.  But  it  obviously  goes 
deeper  by  bringing  home  the  manner  in  which  events  on  a  national, 
or  even  international,  scale  may  have  a  peculiarly  personal  signifi- 


98  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

cance  for  the  individual  which  is  timeless  in  character.  Thus  James 
says:  "I  have  no  intention  of  following  Lieutenant  Ford  to  the  seat 
of  war.  The  exploits  of  his  campaign  are  recorded  in  the  public 
journals  of  the  day,  where  the  curious  may  still  peruse  them.  My 
own  taste  has  always  been  for  unwritten  history,  and  my  present 
business  is  with  the  reverse  of  the  picture." 

As  a  first  step  in  interpretation  must  be  noted  the  facts  that  the 
hero  foresees  his  own  death,  is  wounded,  and  dies.  In  foreseeing 
his  death,  he  makes  his  sweetheart  promise  that  she  will  forget 
him  and  choose  another  if  need  be.  The  mother  opposes  the  match, 
and  the  girl  in  the  case  is  represented  as  abandoning  the  hero  well 
before  his  own  physical  wounds  have  doomed  him.  It  is  hardly 
possible  to  escape  the  conclusion  that  those  wounds  were  not 
meant  to  be  fatal  without  the  contribution  of  the  unhappy  love 
motif.  The  wounds  of  the  hero  are,  in  other  words,  not  those  of  a 
patriot  who  dies  of  what  befalls  him  in  military  combat.  They  are 
those  of  a  lover  forsaken  by  his  psychological  fate.  The  personal 
significance  of  the  war  as  opposed  to  its  national  or  external  one 
is  emphasized.  The  war  serves  merely  as  a  screen  upon  which  the 
deeply  private  problem  can  be  projected. 

At  this  point  one  comes  readily  to  see  that  this  tale  of  the  Civil 
War  and  the  author's  description  of  his  civilian  injury  at  the  time 
of  its  outbreak  are  closely  related.  The  correspondence  which  had 
established  itself  in  his  mind  between  the  wounded  soldiers  in 
Rhode  Island  and  his  own  impaired  state  is  expressed  imaginatively 
in  this  first  story.  But  the  author's  view  takes  precedence  over  the 
soldier's  even  in  the  fiction,  since  it  is  the  implication  of  the  wounds 
for  love  rather  than  for  war  that  is  stressed.  The  death  of  the  hero 
in  "The  Story  of  a  Year"  is  thus  a  representation  of  James's  own 
passional  death  as  implied  in  the  Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother. 

The  dream  of  Elizabeth  is  one  of  the  high  lights  of  the  tale  and 
clearly  illustrates  James's  early  mastery  of  certain  psychological 
processes  which  have  been  more  formally  described  by  profes- 
sional psychologists  only  recently.  Not  only  is  the  dream  prophetic 
— that  would  be  banal — but  it  portrays  in  clear  images  the  conflict 
in  the  dreamer's  mind  and  the  inevitable  solution  she  will  adopt  in 
keeping  with  her  deepest  wishes.  Such  a  reading  of  the  dream 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  99 

indicates  unmistakably  that  the  hero's  fate  was  sealed  not  by  the 
wounds  he  sustained  in  battle,  but  by  the  psychological  forces  in 
the  situation.  Among  such  forces  were  not  only  the  faithlessness  of 
the  girl  but  also  the  opposition  of  the  mother  and  the  hero's  own 
self-doubt.  The  banter  with  which  his  early  conversation  with  the 
girl  is  embellished — the  references  to  the  possibility  of  the  hero's 
looking  like  a  woman  instead  of  a  man  after  he  returns  with  his 
wounds — is  of  considerable  interest  as  indicating  the  presence  of 
certain  feminine  elements  in  his  personality  to  which  his  self-doubt 
and  the  anticipated  injury  may  bear  some  relationship. 

Certain  details  of  the  story  might  with  further  knowledge  of 
James's  own  life  lend  themselves  to  a  fuller  interpretation.  Thus, 
for  instance,  the  possessive  character  of  the  mother  in  relation  to 
the  son;  the  heroine's  being  a  ward  of  the  mother — a  "cousin" 
of  the  hero;  and  the  personality  of  the  successful  rival  Bruce — all 
raise  interesting  problems  regarding  possible  intimates  in  James's 
environment.  Perhaps  even  more  significant  is  the  absence  of  a 
father — the  widowed  state  of  Mrs.  Ford.  If  Henry  James's  own 
father  is  here  in  question,  the  filial  relationship  may  have  been 
sensed  as  "too  sacred"  for  exposure.  The  depth  of  identification 
between  father  and  son  in  terms  of  their  common  infirmity,  already 
discussed,  agrees  with  such  a  view.  This  construction  is,  moreover, 
borne  out  by  the  fiction  itself  if  the  father's  death  existing  as  a 
given  fact  when  the  story  opens  is  taken  as  corresponding  to  the 
death  of  the  son  at  its  close.  The  identity  of  their  fates  may  be 
regarded  as  symbolizing  their  psychological  identification.  Para- 
mount, however,  is  the  other  equivalence  of  Henry  James's  blight 
and  John  Ford's  death.  For  from  this  "death"  came  the  ghost 
which  was  to  appear  again  and  again  in  the  later  tales. 

Before  turning  to  the  subject  of  this  specter,  attention  must  be 
paid  to  some  intermediate  stages  of  development.  As  if  to  ma- 
terialize the  "death,"  James  actually  left  America  to  take  up  resi- 
dence in  England  in  1875.  The  fantasy  had  for  a  time  been  ade- 
quate as  a  form  of  adjustment,  but  in  the  end  it  yielded  as  a 
forecast  to  the  actual  physical  withdrawal.  For  this  often  discussed 
self-exile  seems  to  have  represented  an  escape  from  a  world  dis- 
agreeable before  and  now  no  longer  tolerable.  Most  of  James's 


100  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tales  and  novels  were  written  while  he  was  living  abroad,  and  a  great 
number  of  them,  from  A  Passionate  Pilgrim  (1871)  to  The  Am- 
bassadors (1903),  present  the  problems  of  the  expatriate  and  the 
allied  contrast  between  Old  and  New  Worlds.  He  returned  twice 
to  his  native  land  in  the  early  eighties.  His  mother  died  during  the 
first  visit,  and  his  father's  sudden  and  final  illness  brought  him 
back  almost  immediately.  He  then  remained  away  again  for  over 
twenty  years.  After  a  decade,  however — in  the  early  nineties — he 
began  writing  a  series  of  supernatural  tales  to  which  allusion  has 
already  been  made.  "Sir  Edmund  Orme,"  which  was  copyrighted 
in  1891  and  appears  to  have  been  the  first,  concerns  the  fate  of  a 
lover  who  as  a  prerequisite  to  his  marriage  must  rid  himself  of  a 
ghost  that  represents  an  early  jilted  suitor  of  his  prospective 
mother-in-law.  The  uncanny  relationship  between  the  older  woman 
and  young  man,  with  the  apparition  of  an  unloved  youth  as  in- 
termediary, unmistakably  revives  the  situation  in  "The  Story  of  a 
Year."  There,  it  will  be  recalled,  the  subordination  of  John  Ford 
to  his  mother's  judgment  eventually  coincided  with  his  own  pre- 
sentiment of  death  and  made  together  for  what  could  on  the 
surface  well  be  taken  for  a  jilting  by  his  sweetheart.  The  super- 
natural tale,  however,  records  the  triumph  of  the  hero  over  the 
ghost  and  thus  sounds  the  keynote  of  James's  new  orientation.  The 
same  restorative  tendency  is  even  more  obviously  at  work  in  "Owen 
Wingrave,"  which  appeared  in  1893.  Owen  has  been  preparing  for 
a  military  career — the  traditional  profession  of  his  family — when 
at  the  eleventh  hour  he  decides  to  brave  every  misunderstanding, 
even  that  of  cowardice,  and  keep  faith  with  his  deepest  convictions 
by  giving  up  his  plans.  In  the  stormy  days  that  follow  he  accepts 
the  challenge  of  the  girl  who,  somewhat  like  Elizabeth  Crowe  in 
the  case  of  John  Ford,  had  been  his  childhood  playmate  and  a 
dependent  of  his  family.  To  prove  his  courage,  he  allows  her  to 
lock  him  for  the  night  in  a  haunted  chamber  where  his  great-great- 
grandfather had  mysteriously  died  after  having  accidentally  caused 
the  death  of  his  own  young  son  by  an  angry  blow.  Like  his  an- 
cestor, Owen  wins  his  grave  in  that  room.  "He  looked  like  a  young 
soldier  on  a  battle  field."  In  this  instance  the  relationship  of  the 
hero  to  the  paternal  figure,  rather  than  the  maternal  one — as  in 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  101 

"Sir  Edmund  Orme" — is  portrayed  and,  similarly,  the  emphasis  is 
laid  upon  aggression  (or  war)  rather  than  upon  love.  The  other 
aspect  of  John  Ford's  problem  seems  thus  to  be  bared — the  role 
of  the  father  figure  as  an  inhibitor  of  aggression.  The  integrity  of 
the  hero  is  in  the  end  established  even  if,  like  his  sire  before  him, 
he  has  to  yield  his  life  to  the  ghost  of  an  accidental  violence.  As 
a  presentation  of  James's  personal  problem  at  the  outbreak  of  the 
Civil  War,  including  even  the  relation  of  his,  injury  to  that  of  his 
father,  this  tale  is  once  more  clearly  autobiographical.  As  in  "Sir 
Edmund  Orme,"  the  vindicating  theme  is  again  dominant.  For  the 
ghosts  which  haunted  their  author  from  the  undying  past  (as  a 
return  of  the  repressed)  could  only  be  exorcised  by  the  achieve- 
ment of  some  solution. 

After  a  series  of  such  tales  had  for  over  ten  years  proclaimed  his 
deep  preoccupation  with  the  past,  James  began  to  plan  eagerly  for 
an  American  visit  of  six  or  eight  months.  His  supernatural  fantasies 
had  foretold  this  revisit  even  as  "The  Story  of  a  Year"  had  previ- 
ously forecast  the  departure  for  Europe.  The  counterpart  to  the 
defensive  escape  was  to  be  a  compulsive  return.  The  need  he  felt 
was  strong.  His  brother  William  tried  to  dissuade  him,  in  order 
doubtless  to  spare  him  the  pain  which  the  exposure  would  inflict 
upon  his  sensitive  nature.  But  Henry  insisted  that  he  actually  needed 
"shocks."  How  he  experienced  these  in  1904-1905  is  vividly  re- 
corded in  The  American  Scene,  which  he  wrote  on  his  return  to 
England. 

The  itinerary  of  his  American  trip  as  reflected  in  the  chapters 
of  this  book  is  in  itself  instructive.  The  "repatriated  absentee"  or 
"restless  analyst,"  as  he  variously  styles  himself,  went  first  to  New 
England.  He  then  saw  New  York,  Newport,  Boston,  Concord,  and 
Salem;  Philadelphia,  Baltimore,  Washington,  and  the  South — Rich- 
mond, Charleston,  and  Florida.  He  traveled  also  to  the  Far  West, 
but  his  book  concludes  with  Florida.  The  sequel  he  planned  was 
never  written,  and  it  strikes  one  that,  with  the  South  accounted 
for,  the  rest  was  to  him  merely  appendix. 

At  any  rate,  his  visits  to  Richmond  and  Charleston — where  he 
had  never  been  before — stand  out  as  especially  significant.  He  says, 


102  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  speaking  of  his  "going  South,"  that  it  somehow  corresponded 
now  to  what  in  ancient  days  the  yearning  for  Europe  seemed 
romantically  to  promise.  Early  in  the  chapter  on  Richmond  he 
alludes  to  the  outbreak  of  the  Civil  War  and  describes  the  city 
almost  purely  in  terms  of  its  having  been  the  Confederate  capital. 
He  characterizes  it  (p.  358,  passim)  as  "the  haunted  scene"  and 
"the  tragic  ghost-haunted  city,"  full  of  an  "adorable  weakness" 
that  evokes  a  certain  "tenderness"  in  the  visitor.  The  gist  of  his 
impression  he  gives  in  an  image:  "I  can  doubtless  not  sufficiently 
tell  why,  but  there  was  something  in  my  whole  sense  of  the  South 
that  projected  at  moments  a  vivid  and  painful  image — that  of  a 
figure  somehow  blighted  or  stricken,  discomfortably,  impossibly 
seated  in  an  invalid-chair,  and  yet  fixing  one  with  strange  eyes 
that  were  half  a  defiance  and  half  a  deprecation  of  one's  noticing, 
and  much  more  of  one's  referring  to,  an  abnormal  sign"  (p.  362). 
A  strong  suspicion  arises  that  the  image  here  projected  is  that  of 
James  himself  in  1861.  For  confirmation  one  need  only  recall  his 
own  description  of  the  manner  in  which  his  youthful  injury  had 
united  itself  indissolubly  in  his  mind  with  the  Civil  War.  As  his 
own  inner  turmoil  had  corresponded  then  to  the  internal  conflict  of 
the  country,  so  now  his  highly  sympathetic  and  tender  response 
to  the  vanquished  faction  seems  builded  on  an  understanding 
of  his  quite  similar  fate. 

This  view  is  borne  out  by  his  impressions  of  Charleston.  Here, 
again,  the  war  of  North  and  South  dominates  his  field  of  vision, 
but,  unlike  the  Northern  friend  who  accompanied  him,  he  finds 
himself  concentrating  on  the  "bled"  condition  and  his  heart  fails  to 
harden  even  against  the  treachery  at  Fort  Sumter.  Once  more  a 
synoptic  image  emerges,  this  time  of  feminization:  "The  feminiza- 
tion is  there  just  to  promote  for  us  some  eloquent  antithesis;  just 
to  make  us  say  that  whereas  the  ancient  order  was  masculine, 
fierce  and  moustachioed,  the  present  is  at  the  most  a  sort  of  sick 
lioness  who  has  so  visibly  parted  with  her  teeth  and  claws  that  we 
may  patronizingly  walk  all  round  her.  .  .  .  This  image  really  gives 
us  the  best  word  for  the  general  effect  of  Charleston.  .  .  ."  (pp. 
401  f.).  One  recalls  almost  with  a  start  the  bantering  conversation 
in  "The  Story  of  a  Year"  of  forty  years  earlier  between  the  hero 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  103 

and  the  heroine  as  to  the  possibility  of  his  looking  like  a  "lady" 
when  he  returns  from  the  war  with  his  wounds.  John  Ford  carries 
on  the  figure  by  saying  that  even  if  he  grows  a  moustache,  as  he 
intends  to  do,  he  will  be  altering  his  face  as  women  do  a  misfitting 
garment — taking  in  on  one  side  and  letting  out  on  the  other — 
insofar  as  he  crops  his  head  and  cultivates  his  chin. 

In  general,  then,  the  impression  seems  sustained  that  Henry 
James's  visit  to  America  in  1904-1905,  after  twenty  years  of  ab- 
sence, was  largely  actuated  by  an  impulse  to  repair,  if  possible,  the 
injury  and  to  complete  the  unfinished  experience  of  his  youth.  He 
was,  as  it  were,  haunted  by  the  ghost  of  his  own  past  and  of  this 
he  wished  to  disabuse  his  mind  before  actual  death  overtook  him. 
Since  the  Civil  War  had  played  so  vital  a  part  in  his  early  blight,  he 
now  visited  the  South  for  the  first  time  and  received  there  those 
impressions  which  bear  so  strong  a  mark  of  personal  projection. 

The  plausibility  of  this  reconstruction  and  of  the  preceding  in- 
terpretation of  "The  Story  of  a  Year"  is  strengthened  by  a  psycho- 
logical reading  of  the  later  supernatural  tales,  especially  "The  Jolly 
Corner."  This  short  story  was  first  published  in  the  English  Review 
for  December,  1908,  shortly  after  his  visit  to  the  United  States. 
It  is  the  story  of  Spencer  Brydon  who  as  a  man  of  fifty-six  returns 
to  America  after  many  years  of  residence  in  Europe.  He  has  come 
to  look  at  his  property — the  house  on  the  Jolly  Corner — where  he 
was  born  and  grew  up.  Before  long  he  becomes  absorbed  in  the 
old  house  to  the  point  of  visiting  it  nightly  in  the  strange  hope  of 
encountering  there  his  own  alter  ego — the  ghost  of  his  former  self. 
When  he  finally  does  succeed  and  is  confronted  by  the  specter  he 
has  been  seeking,  he  notes  among  other  things  that  two  fingers 
on  its  right  hand  are  missing.  He  cannot  endure  to  face  the  image 
before  him — he  refuses  to  recognize  himself  there — and  over- 
whelmed by  the  extremity  of  his  emotion,  he  falls  unconscious. 
When  he  revives,  Alice  Staverton,  whom  he  had  known  in  his 
early  days  before  taking  up  residence  abroad  and  whom  he  has 
been  seeing  since  his  return,  is  standing  over  him.  She,  too,  has 
seen  the  ghost — in  a  dream — and  thus  knew  that  Spencer  had 
made  the  encounter.  He  protests  to  her  that  the  shape  he  has  met 
was  not  himself  till  she  quite  simply  declares,  "Isn't  the  whole 


104  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

point  that  you'd  have  been  different?"  It  is  clear  from  the  context 
that  the  heroine  could  have  been  in  love  with  the  rejected  per- 
sonality (the  ghost)  since  she  understood  it.  She  is,  however, 
equally  ready  to  accept  Brydon  as  he  is  today  and  reconcile  him, 
perhaps,  to  those  unacknowledged  aspects  of  himself  which  have 
kept  him  from  her  all  these  years — which  have  driven  him  abroad 
to  escape  himself. 

The  specter  in  this  tale  is  typical  of  Henry  James.  Unlike  the 
ghosts  of  other  writers,  the  creatures  of  James's  imagination  repre- 
sent not  the  shadows  of  lives  once  lived,  but  the  immortal  impulses 
of  the  unlived  life.  In  the  present  story  the  ghost  of  Spencer  Brydon 
is  obviously  his  rejected  self.  Moreover,  an  injury — the  two  lost 
fingers — here  stands  in  some  relation  to  the  fact  that  the  life  was 
not  lived  or  that,  in  other  words,  a  kind  of  psychological  death 
had  occurred.  Finally,  the  injury  and  the  related  incompletion  have 
entailed  an  unfulfilled  love.  The  hero  has  fled  the  heroine  because 
he  could  not  face  himself. 

At  this  point  one  is  obviously  but  a  step  from  "The  Story  of  a 
Year,"  written  forty  years  earlier  than  "The  Jolly  Corner."  To  re- 
peat what  has  more  than  once  been  implied:  with  the  death  of 
John  Ford  the  ghost  of  Spencer  Brydon  came  into  existence.  The 
story  of  the  latter  is  a  complement  to  that  of  the  former.  As  Henry 
James — or  Ford — left  America  to  reside  abroad,  Brydon  returns 
to  confront  his  former  self.  The  identity  of  the  characters  is  estab- 
lished by  the  injuries  each  suffered — James's  "obscure  hurt," 
Ford's  wounds,  and  Brydon's  missing  fingers.  But  like  James  dur- 
ing his  visit  in  1904-1905,  Brydon  is  obviously  attempting  to 
rectify  the  past — to  face  it  again  and  test  the  answer  previously 
given.  There  is  thus  represented  here  not  merely  a  harking  back 
with  vain  regrets  but  an  obvious  effort  to  overcome  old  barriers 
and  pass  beyond  them.  It  is  in  this  spirit  that  the  woman  in  the 
case,  Alice  Staverton,  now  likewise  appears  as  a  complement  to 
Elizabeth  Crowe.  Whereas  Elizabeth  had  been  faithless,  Alice  is 
ever  faithful  and  still  ready  to  accept  her  lover  both  as  he  was  and 
as  he  is.  Even  the  device  of  the  dream  recurs — the  dream  of  Eliza- 
beth having  presaged  her  abandonment  of  Ford,  while  that  of 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  105 

Alice  brings  her  through  her  empathy  to  the  scene  of  Brydon's 
overwhelming  encounter  with  his  ghost. 

The  complementary  relationship  of  these  two  tales,  standing  at 
the  very  beginning  and  all  but  the  end  of  James's  creative  work,  is 
so  striking  that  one  is  impelled  to  believe  that  the  second  was  in- 
tentionally written  as  a  counterpart  to  the  first.  This  conjecture  is 
supported  by  chronological  considerations.  When  James  toured 
America  in  1904-1905,  memories  of  the  Civil  War  were  vividly 
revived  for  him,  as  has  already  been  mentioned.  "The  Story  of  a 
Year"  must  surely  have  been  recalled  at  that  time  in  sharp  relief. 
But  one  of  the  more  practical  reasons  for  the  journey  was  to 
arrange  for  the  publication  of  the  definitive  New  York  Edition  of 
his  collected  fiction.  After  completing  The  American  Scene  on  his 
return  to  England,  he  spent  the  next  two  years  in  rereading,  select- 
ing, and  meticulously  revising  his  novels  and  tales.  Critics  have 
assailed  the  rigorous  censorship  to  which  the  earlier  writings  were 
subjected  in  this  process,  but  James's  action  is  understandable  if 
one  compares  the  revision  and  the  revisit  as  attempts  equally  to 
reclaim  the  past  and  reshape  it  while  there  was  yet  time.  In  the 
careful  review  of  all  his  past  work  which  the  preparation  of  the 
collected  edition  entailed,  James  must  again  have  come  upon  "The 
Story  of  a  Year,"  this  time  paginally.  But  he  did  not  include  this 
tale.  What  one  does  find  there — psychologically  instead — is  a  new 
story,  "The  Jolly  Corner,"  which  was  first  published  in  1908  and 
was  probably  written  during  the  arduous  process  of  the  collective 
revision.  This  tale  was  plainly  based  on  the  American  visit,  yet  it 
no  doubt  also  represented  a  retelling  of  the  omitted  "The  Story  of 
a  Year" — the  most  radical  revision  of  them  all.  For  in  "The  Jolly 
Corner"  one  finds  a  coalescence  of  revisit  and  revision  which  satis- 
factorily explains  the  complementary  relationship  of  this  story  to 
the  first  ever  written.  Through  marking  the  persistence  of  the 
trend  one  comes  to  see  that,  despite  the  wishful  reworking,  "The 
Story  of  a  Year"  was  nevertheless  the  story  of  a  life. 

Towards  the  end  of  1909  and  for  nearly  a  year  thereafter,  James 
suffered  from  a  severe  nervous  depression  which  completely  in- 
capacitated him  for  work.  This  illness  must  in  the  foregoing  con- 
text be  taken  as  a  reaction  to  the  failure  of  his  restitutive  efforts. 


106  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Neither  the  supernatural  tales  nor  the  American  return  nor  the 
definitive  revision  of  his  works  had  achieved  the  solution  he  des- 
perately sought,  and  despair  overtook  him.  His  brother  William's 
death  toward  the  end  of  1910  removed  a  mainstay  of  his  life  and 
deepened  his  misery.  Further  illness  in  1912  made  the  end  seem 
tragically  near. 

But  through  everything  he  held  on,  actuated  still  by  the  same 
forward  impetus  that  had  unfailingly  declared  itself  before.  He  was 
unwittingly  preparing  for  the  final  and  highest  adventure  of  his  life. 
For  with  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I  in  1914,  this  reticent  man 
of  seventy-one,  until  now  without  any  obvious  interest  in  political 
affairs,  of  a  sudden  identified  himself  with  social  action.  He  recog- 
nized the  cost  that  might  be  involved  when  he  compared  himself 
to  the  quiet  dweller  in  a  tenement  upon  whom  the  question  of 
"structural  improvements"  is  thrust  and  he  feared  for  his  "house 
of  the  spirit"  where  everything  had  become  for  better  or  worse 
adjusted  to  his  familiar  habits  and  use.  But  this  "vulgar  apprehen- 
sion" could  not  deter  him;  and,  as  he  says  in  Within  the  Rim,  "I 
found  myself  before  long  building  on  additions  and  upper  stories, 
throwing  out  extensions  and  protrusions,  indulging  even,  all  reck- 
lessly, in  gables  and  pinnacles  and  battlements — things  that  had 
presently  transformed  the  unpretending  place  into  I  scarce  know 
what  to  call  it,  a  fortress  of  the  faith,  a  palace  of  the  soul,  an  ex- 
travagant, bristling,  flag-flying  structure  which  had  quite  as  much 
to  do  with  the  air  as  with  the  earth"  (pp.  19  f.). 

His  efforts  for  the  Allied  cause  knew  no  bounds.  He  visited  army 
hospitals  and  refugee  encampments  (as  he  had  on  a  certain  earlier 
occasion  visited  a  military  camp  of  invalids  in  Rhode  Island); 
made  pecuniary  contributions  and  wrote  articles  for  war  charities; 
supported  movements  like  the  American  Volunteer  Ambulance 
Corps;  and  performed  a  host  of  lesser  tasks  as  a  daily  routine  from 
the  beginning  of  the  war  until  his  death.  His  friends  were  amazed 
— even  as  they  were  inspired — by  the  fervor  of  this  notoriously 
passionless  writer.  As  Percy  Lubbock,  the  editor  of  James's  Letters, 
well  says:  "To  all  who  listened  to  him  in  those  days  it  must  have 
seemed  that  he  gave  us  what  we  lacked — a  voice;  there  was  a  trum- 
pet note  in  it  that  was  heard  nowhere  else  and  that  alone  rose  to 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  107 

the  height  of  the  truth.  For  a  while  it  was  as  though  the  burden 
of  age  had  slipped  from  him;  he  lived  in  the  lives  of  all  who  were 
acting  and  suffering — especially  of  the  young,  who  acted  and  suf- 
fered most.  His  spiritual  vigour  bore  a  strain  that  was  the  greater 
by  the  whole  weight  of  his  towering  imagination;  but  the  time  came 
at  last  when  his  bodily  endurance  failed.  He  died  resolutely  confi- 
dent of  the  victory  that  was  still  so  far  off."  Edmund  Gosse,  among 
others,  expressed  the  opinion  that  James's  death  early  in  1916  was 
definitely  hastened  by  his  profligate  expenditure  of  energy  in  war 
service. 

In  these  days  when  the  centenary  of  Henry  James's  birth  coin- 
cides with  World  War  II,  the  significance  of  his  death  during  World 
War  I  well  lends  itself  to  further  examination.  Without  detracting 
in  the  least  from  the  positive  significance  of  the  contribution,  one 
may  still  trace  the  line  of  its  descent  from  the  earlier  record  already 
revealed.  Is  it  too  much  to  suggest  that  the  unparalleled  fervor  of 
his  actions  is  to  some  extent  explained  by  a  belated  compensation 
for  his  failure  at  the  time  of  the  Civil  War?  In  favor  of  such  a  view 
is  the  fact  that  the  last  book  he  lived  to  complete — Notes  of  a  Son 
and  Brother — and  the  one  in  which  he  recounted  the  memories  of 
his  youth,  including  his  injury,  was  published  in  1914.  His  early 
experiences  were  thus  unusually  fresh  in  his  mind  at  the  outbreak 
of  the  war.  But  to  this  inference  may  be  added  his  own  testimony 
as  found  in  the  opening  sentences  of  the  little  volume,  Within  the 
Rim,  in  which  are  collected  his  wartime  essays:  "The  first  sense  of 
it  all  to  me  after  the  first  shock  and  horror  was  that  of  a  sudden 
leap  back  into  life  of  the  violence  with  which  the  American  Civil 
War  broke  upon  us,  at  the  North,  fifty-four  years  ago,  when  I  had 
a  consciousness  of  youth  which  perhaps  equalled  in  vivacity  my 
present  consciousness  of  age.  . .  .  The  analogy  quickened  and  deep- 
ened with  every  elapsing  hour;  the  drop  of  the  balance  under  the 
invasion  of  Belgium  reproduced  with  intensity  the  agitation  of  the 
New  England  air  by  Mr.  Lincoln's  call  to  arms,  and  I  went  about 
for  a  short  space  as  with  the  queer  secret  locked  in  my  breast  of  at 
least  already  knowing  how  such  occasions  helped  and  what  a  big 
war  was  going  to  mean"  (pp.  11  f . ) .  The  analogy  of  the  wars  in  his 
own  consciousness  thus  attested,  it  is  not  difficult  to  believe  that  a 


108  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

common  motivational  tie  was  at  least  implicitly  at  work.  He  might 
have  been  found  wanting  in  1861,  but  he  would  not  be  found  so  on 
this  second  and  doubtless  final  occasion.  At  that  earlier  time  he  had 
adjusted  to  his  personal  wounds  by  withdrawal  and  by  such  con- 
structive acts  as  the  art  of  fiction  permitted.  But  now  a  positive 
participation  in  real  social  action  would  provide  the  solution  for 
the  problem  which  had  haunted  him  through  life.  Instead  of  hang- 
ing his  head  as  a  war  disability,  he  would  stand  forth  as  a  war  hero; 
England,  which  had  been  for  him  a  refuge  of  escape,  would  become 
a  citadel  of  his  true  assertion;  and  America,  which  had  exhibited 
him  as  weak,  would  now  be  exhibited  by  him  as  weak. 

In  this  setting  becomes  intelligible  the  mooted  question  of  James's 
assumption  of  British  citizenship  a  few  months  before  his  death.  He 
had,  on  the  one  hand,  been  adding  to  his  numerous  activities  in  the 
Allied  interest  repeated  statements  of  his  consternation  that  Amer- 
ica did  not  enter  the  war  at  once.  On  the  other  hand,  his  fervent 
identification  with  the  English  cause  increased  daily.  Thus  in  July, 
1915,  he  at  last  became  a  naturalized  British  subject.  By  this  stroke 
he  changed  for  himself  the  orientation  of  a  lifetime.  His  haven 
of  refuge  was  transformed  into  the  many-flagged  and  turreted  em- 
battlements  of  which  he  well  might  write  with  a  surge  of  liberated 
passion.  From  these  heights  he  could  in  the  end  look  down  upon 
America  hanging  back  in  the  distance.  His  own  words — in  a  letter 
to  his  nephew — again  at  this  point  offer  direct  confirmation:  "I 
have  testified  to  my  long  attachment  here  in  the  only  way  I  could 
— though  I  certainly  shouldn't  have  done  it,  under  the  inspiration 
of  our  Cause,  if  the  U.  S.  A.  had  done  it  a  little  more  for  me.  Then 
I  should  have  thrown  myself  back  on  that  and  been  content  with  it; 
but  as  this,  at  the  end  of  a  year,  hasn't  taken  place,  I  have  had 
to  act  for  myself,  and  I  go  so  far  as  quite  to  think,  I  hope  not 
fatuously,  that  I  shall  have  set  an  example  and  shown  a  little 
something  of  the  way." 

It  seems  not  improbable  that  this  excessive  expenditure  of  en- 
ergy in  a  man  over  seventy  brought  on  a  death  premature  by  some 
months  or  even  years.  But  he  must  surely  have  felt  that  the  reward 
had  been  worth  the  cost.  And  regarding  these  final  events  in  the 
terms  not  of  what  they  may  have  been  surmounting  in  his  past, 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  109 

but,  as  from  the  vantage  point  of  the  present,  they  appear  progres- 
sively to  mean,  one  can  respond  in  full  accord;  since  James  by  the 
active  assertion  of  that  period  re-established  vital  contact  with 
contemporary  social  realities. 

So  at  last  the  pattern  of  the  genius  which  was  Henry  James 
emerges.  Suffering  since  childhood  from  a  keen  sense  of  inade- 
quacy, he  experienced  in  his  eighteenth  year  an  injury  that  sharply 
crystallized  this  attitude  into  a  passional  death.  The  ghost  which 
as  an  apotheosis  of  his  unlived  life  appears  repeatedly  in  his  later 
tales  was  liberated  from  this  "death."  Many  aspects  of  his  experi- 
ence and  work  up  to  the  very  time  of  his  actual  death  were  oriented 
as  movements  back  to  and  forward  from  this  nucleus. 

The  broader  application  of  the  inherent  pattern  is  familiar  to 
readers  of  Edmund  Wilson's  recent  volume,  The  Wound  and  the 
Bow.  This  title  paraphrases  the  Philoctetes  of  Sophocles  in  which 
the  hero's  rare  skill  with  the  bow  is  portrayed  as  having  a  mysteri- 
ous, if  not  supernatural,  relationship  to  his  stubbornly  persistent 
wound — a  snake  bite  to  the  foot.  Abandoned  in  his  illness  for  years 
on  the  island  of  Lemnos,  Philoctetes  is  finally  conducted  to  Troy, 
where  he  fights  and  kills  Paris  in  single  combat,  thus  becoming  one 
of  the  great  heroes  of  the  Trojan  War.  Reviewing  the  experience 
and  works  of  several  well-known  literary  masters,  Wilson  discloses 
the  sacrificial  roots  of  their  power  on  the  model  of  the  Greek 
legend.  In  the  case  of  Henry  James  the  present  account  not  only 
provides  a  similar  insight  into  the  unhappy  sources  of  his  genius 
but  reveals  the  aptness  of  the  Philoctetes  pattern  even  to  the  point 
where  the  bow  of  the  wounded  and  exiled  archer  is  at  the  last 
enlisted  literally  in  a  crucial  military  cause. 


PSYCHOANALYTIC  EPICRISIS 

In  the  jargon  of  psychoanalysis  the  story  just  sketched  could  be 
retold  as  follows.  The  Oedipus  situation  of  Henry  James  included 
a  highly  individualistic  father — a  cripple — and  a  gifted  sibling  rival 
(William)  who  together  dwarfed  the  boy  in  his  own  eyes  beyond 
hope  of  ever  attaining  their  stature.  A  severe  inferiority  complex 


110  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

resulted.  The  problematic  relationship  to  father  and  brother  was 
solved  submissively  by  a  profound  repression  of  aggressiveness. 

At  the  age  of  eighteen,  in  the  earliest  days  of  the  Civil  War, 
Henry  sustained  a  persistent  physical  injury.  A  keen  sense  of 
created  impotence,  combined  with  a  possible  suspicion  of  uncon- 
scious malingering,  now  crystallized  his  early  sense  of  inferiority 
into  "castration  anxiety."  The  "obscure  but  intimate  hurt"  was 
experienced  as  involving  not  only  the  manliness  of  war,  then  so- 
cially so  moot,  but  also  the  virility  of  love,  which  was  focal  in 
the  adolescent  stage  of  his  individual  development.  Identification 
with  the  crippled  ("castrated")  but  powerful  father  could  have 
figured  in  the  trauma  both  through  the  son's  remarkably  similar 
accident  and  in  their  common  incapacitation.  At  the  same  time, 
the  injury,  interpreted  more  deeply,  may  have  been  unconsciously 
embraced  as  a  token  of  filial  submission:  the  acknowledged  weak- 
ness was  at  once  peculiarly  appropriated  as  "an  inexhaustible  inter- 
est." Introversion  in  which  both  aggression  and  sexuality  were 
repressed  was  now  established  as  a  modus  vivendi. 

The  possible  role  of  constitutional  bisexuality  should  be  noted  in 
passing,  even  if  only  speculatively.  Injuries  like  the  one  experienced 
by  James  may  be  conceived  to  subdue  the  more  active  and  mascu- 
line components  of  personality  and  accentuate  as  a  counterpoise 
the  more  passive  and  feminine  ones.  The  creative  drive  of  genius 
seems  often  to  be  enhanced  even  as  its  capacity  is  paradoxically 
also  limited  by  such  a  destiny. 

It  was,  at  any  rate,  after  his  injury  that  James  turned  to  the  art 
of  fiction.  His  writing  served  him  both  as  an  escape  from  frustration 
by  way  of  fantasy  and  as  a  partial  means  of  solving  his  problems 
through  sublimation.  But  the  fantasied  escape  proved  insufficient, 
and  he  therefore  soon  abandoned  the  American  scene  that  had  be- 
come to  him  intolerable.  During  most  of  his  life  he  lived  in  Eng- 
land. His  various  novels  and  tales  written  both  before  and  after  the 
departure  from  America  acquired  their  notorious  peculiarities — 
precious  overqualification  of  style  and  restraint  of  sexual  passion — 
from  the  repressed  pattern  of  his  life.  The  acute  psychological  in- 
sights in  which  his  work  abounds  sprang  in  part,  however,  from  the 
introspective  vigilance  allied  with  these  "defects." 


The  Ghost  of  Henry  James  111 

As  James  began  to  enter  the  final  third  of  his  life,  a  resurgence 
of  his  buried  drives  occurred.  The  supernatural  stories  which  be- 
gan to  come  from  his  pen  during  this  period  testify  to  this  "return 
of  the  repressed."  His  ghosts  consistently  represent  an  apotheosis 
of  the  unlived  life.  This  fictional  attempt  to  face  again  the  early 
unsolved  problems  was  followed  compulsively  by  an  actual  revisit 
to  America.  As  the  criminal  returns  to  the  scene  of  his  crime, 
James  now  went  back  to  the  haunts  of  his  catastrophe.  But  the 
neurotic  repression  failed  to  yield,  and  a  severe  nervous  depression 
that  expressed  his  sense  of  defeat  ensued. 

With  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I  soon  following,  when  he  was 
already  over  seventy,  came  a  final  effort  at  solution — now  not  by 
sublimation  in  fiction,  by  escape  or  return,  but  in  relationships  to 
the  real  social  world.  It  is  not  surprising  that  a  note  of  overcom- 
pensation was  present  in  these  war  activities,  especially  in  the  as- 
sumption of  British  citizenship,  and  that  his  end  was  probably 
hastened  by  his  profligate  expenditure  of  energy.  But  in  large  meas- 
ure he  re-established  contact  with  the  realities  of  his  environment 
by  these  acts  and  in  the  same  degree  he  thus  succeeded  in  laying 
the  ghost  of  his  unlived  past  before  death  overtook  him. 

Three  wars  are  thus  spanned  by  the  ghost  of  Henry  James:  the 
Civil  War,  which  evoked  it  mortally  in  his  youth;  World  War  I, 
which  permitted  it  to  be  laid  before  his  death;  and  World  War  II, 
which,  occurring  during  the  centenary  of  his  birth,  recalls  it  anew 
in  the  immortal  sense. 


1  The  coincidence  between  the  accidents  of  Henry  James,  Sr.,  and  his  son 
Henry  is  amazingly  paralleled  by  a  similar  duplication  of  experience  be- 
tween the  father  and  the  son  William.  In  this  latter  case  a  psychological 
catastrophe  rather  than  a  physical  injury  is  involved,  but  the  powerful  rela- 
tionship between  father  and  son  is  again  inescapable.  For  a  description  of 
the  experiences,  compare  William  James,  Varieties  of  Religious  Experience, 
pp.  160-61,  with  the  footnote  reference  to  the  work  of  Henry  James,  Sr. 
{Society:  The  Redeemed  Form  of  Man,  pp.  43  ff.),  where  the  father's  case 
of  equally  sudden  terror  is  recounted. 


Phyllis  Greenacre 


Jonathan  Swift 


Swift  had  problems  of  identity  and  of  identifi- 
cation which  were  inherent  in  the  strangeness  of  his  birth,  with  his 
father  dying  almost  as  he  was  conceived.  They  were  increased  by 
the  relative  personal  isolation  of  his  childhood,  and  again  reflected 
in  the  stories  of  his  declining  years  when  with  senility  already 
engulfing  him,  he  showed  an  interest  in  his  mirrored  image  and 
remarked,  whether  in  renunciation  or  self-definition,  "Poor  old 
man!"  and  "I  am  what  I  am.  I  am  what  I  am."  In  addition  to  the 
strangeness  of  his  birth,  the  kidnapping  made  complications  for 
his  settling  in  the  gradual  way  of  most  children  the  problem:  "This 
is  I.  My  name  is  such  and  such.  I  live  here  with  my  mama  and 
papa."  Then  just  at  the  most  vulnerable  epoch  of  a  child's  life,  the 
Oedipal  period,  he  was  returned  to  his  mother  in  a  different  coun- 
try, only  to  have  her  disappear  again  in  a  few  months.  The  security  of 
continuity  of  relationship,  whether  to  people  or  to  surroundings,  was 
not  his  by  Fate.  Rather  he  was  the  center  of  a  Family  Romance,1 
determined  by  reality,  which  might  otherwise  have  remained  only  a 
powerful  fantasy. 

His  position  throughout  childhood  was  always  somewhat  anom- 
112 


Jonathan  Swift  113 

alous,  both  in  school  and  in  his  uncle's  family;  he  was  not  quite  a 
first-class  member  of  the  family.  At  twenty-one  he  visited  his  mother 
and  at  twenty-two  he  took  a  position,  not  clearly  defined,  in  the 
household  of  Sir  William  Temple.  It  must  have  been  rather  difficult 
for  this  young  man,  who  had  never  lived  regularly  in  a  family,  to 
find  himself  in  this  large  and  varied  menage,  kind  and  considerate 
though  the  Temples  were.  Twenty-two  is  hardly  the  optimum  time 
to  be  initiated  into  family  relationships  and  young  Swift  had  many 
difficulties;  although  he  remained  with  the  Temples  off  and  on  for 
ten  years,  he  can  hardly  be  said  to  have  been  thoroughly  at  home 
there.  It  could  not  make  up  for  the  vacuoles  in  his  early  life. 

It  is  to  be  expected  further  from  the  peculiar  circumstances  of 
his  first  years  that  Swift  would  have  grave  distortions  of  his  Oedipal 
development  and  of  his  castration  complex.  These  clinical  results 
which  we  could  predict  from  the  barest  events  of  his  life  are  in- 
deed borne  out  by  his  character,  his  writings,  and  the  course  of 
the  later  life  which  he  carved  out  for  himself. 

Swift's  physical  health  and  physical  symptoms  are  worthy  of 
notice.  It  was  said  by  some  that  he  was  a  premature,  frail  infant; 
but  these  are  general  statements  and  not  clearly  documented.  The 
mother's  struggle  with  poverty  was  definite,  however.  She  was  not 
superhuman,  and  we  must  conclude  that  there  was  some  disturb- 
ance in  her  relationship  to  the  infant  whose  birth  so  complicated 
her  fortunes;  but  in  just  what  direction  is  unclear. 

That  there  was  a  two-mother  situation  between  the  own  mother 
and  the  nurse  is  also  apparent  from  the  basic  facts.  That  there 
was  a  two-father  situation  in  rumor  and  in  fantasy  was  indicated 
by  the  reports  of  illegitimacy  running  parallel  with  remarks  that 
the  father  never  knew  of  the  son's  conception.  One  would  surmise 
that  the  question  of  paternity  might  well  have  been  raised  and  was 
to  reappear  forty-eight  years  later  in  the  never-solved  mystery  of 
Swift's  alleged  marriage,  reputedly  interrupted  by  someone  reveal- 
ing that  Swift  and  Stella  were  brother  and  sister,  both  the  natural 
children  of  Sir  William  Temple.  Nowhere  is  there  any  evidence, 
nor  does  any  one  of  the  Swift  biographers  support  the  idea  that 
there  is  real  truth  in  this  story.  Indeed,  it  can  be  proved  from  his- 
torically established  facts  that  Sir  William  Temple  was  in  another 


114  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

part  of  the  world  at  the  time  of  the  conception  of  Jonathan  Swift. 
That  the  Temples,  both  Sir  John  Temple  and  his  son  Sir  William, 
knew  the  Swifts  and  that  Sir  John  was  often  in  Dublin  and  was 
instrumental  in  getting  the  elder  Jonathan  Swift  an  appointment  as 
Steward  at  the  King's  Inn  is  also  clearly  established.  This  correction 
to  the  story  does  not,  however,  dispose  of  it  in  its  entirety.  Even 
if  it  is  the  gossip  incident  to  the  peculiar  life  constellation  and  char- 
acter of  Jonathan  Swift  and  the  outcome  of  the  human  weakness 
for  malicious  speculation  and  drama,  still  its  occurrence  and  even 
more  its  persistence  has  some  significance,  which  cannot  be  thor- 
oughly abolished  by  objective  correction.  It  is  not  clear  who  is 
supposed  to  have  made  the  revelations,  though  the  guess  was  haz- 
arded that  it  was  Rebecca  Dingley.  The  important  aspect  of  the 
situation  would  seem  to  be  that  the  story  was  probably  known  to 
Swift  in  one  form  or  another.  In  other  words,  it  either  sprang  from 
his  fantasy  primarily  or  so  corresponded  to  his  latent  fantasy  that 
he  made  no  apparent  effort  to  investigate  or  refute  it.  This  matter 
of  the  Family  Romance  and  the  way  in  which  it  fits  into  Swift's 
symptomatology  will  be  taken  up  again  later. 

In  the  Memoirs  of  Scriblerus,  Swift  brings  out  more  play  of 
fantasy  about  birth  than  is  true  in  his  biography  of  Gulliver.  In 
both  Scriblerus  accounts,  the  parents  had  difficulty  in  begetting  a 
child.  In  one  instance,  the  pregnancy  with  Martin  was  preceded 
by  an  abortion  of  a  female  child;  in  both,  they  had  to  resort  to 
magic  aid.  Once  the  sorceress  advised  that  if  the  father  took  seven 
sheets  of  paper  and  wrote  upon  each  with  seven  alphabets  of  seven 
languages,  in  such  a  way  that  no  one  letter  stood  twice  in  the  same 
posture,  then  clipped  all  the  letters  apart  and  put  them  in  a  pillow 
which  would  be  used  by  the  helpful  wife  to  support  her  in  a  certain 
position,  pregnancy  would  follow.  This  fantasy  might  indicate  an 
ironic  suggestion  of  origin  from  magic  thought  and/or  from  per- 
verse relations. 

Both  Scriblerus  Memoirs  report  that  on  the  eve  of  giving  birth, 
the  mother  had  a  dream  that  she  had  given  birth  to  a  monstrous 
thing  like  an  inkpot  which  spirited  black  liquid  in  many  rivulets 
throughout  the  room.  The  sorceress  interpreted  this  dream  to  mean 
that  the  "innumerable  streams  are  the  types  or  symbols  of  [the 


Jonathan  Swift  115 

infant's]  Genius,  and  the  Extent  of  it;  by  them  are  signifiy'd  the 
great  Variety  of  Productions  in  human  Learning,  that  will  render 
him  the  Admiration  and  Surprize  of  all  the  Universe;  as  to  the 
Spout,  it  betokens  the  Sex,  and  that  it  will  be  a  Son."  When  the 
infant  was  born,  he  especially  enjoyed  the  rattling  of  paper,  and 
dabbling  in  ink.  Later  the  nurse  announced  joyfully  that  the  baby 
had  said  "Papa,"  but  the  father  soon  determined  that  the  word 
really  was  "paper."  Thus  was  launched  the  child  who  was  to  be  the 
Genius  of  the  Age. 

To  return  to  the  matter  of  Swift's  early  health,  when  physical 
comfort  so  strongly  interplays  with  emotional  development — there 
is  little  knowledge  of  the  period  immediately  after  birth,  except 
the  implication  that  his  health  was  not  generally  good,  as  it  was 
reported  that  when  Abigail  Swift  discovered  the  whereabouts  of 
her  kidnapped  son,  she  sent  word  that  he  should  not  be  returned 
until  he  was  well  enough  to  bear  the  strain  of  travel  better.  But 
when  this  is  supposed  to  have  occurred  is  obscure,  and  our  chief 
source  of  information  is  Swift's  own  scant  account  which  puts  as 
good  a  face  on  everything  as  possible.  He  gave  no  account  of  ill- 
ness in  his  boyhood.  Yet  by  his  late  adolescence  or  early  manhood 
he  had  instituted  ritualized  walking  to  demonstrate  and  improve 
his  strength.  The  pictures  of  him  in  his  maturity  show  a  man  of 
unusually  fine  physique,  handsome  and  stalwart.  By  the  age  of 
twenty-two,  he  was  rather  frequently  complaining  of  ill-health: 
weakness,  pains,  stomach-aches  (sometimes  physical  pains  and 
sometimes  figurative  statements  of  aversion),  headaches,  and  rather 
diffuse  body  pains.  He  also  developed  attacks  of  dizziness  with 
deafness,  thought  to  be  Meniere's  disease;  but  attributed  by  him  to 
the  eating  of  "stone  fruits."  2  Many  of  his  complaints  had  to  do 
with  gastrointestinal  disturbances,  although  he  was  a  hearty  eater 
who  liked  good  food.  He  was  extremely  fearful  of  insanity  from  a 
quite  early  age;  and  was  reiterating  his  defiance  of  death  so  strongly 
that  he  seemed  to  be  protesting  too  much.  An  oft-repeated  state- 
ment was  that  life  was  not  worth  retaining,  but  health  was.  In  the 
Third  Voyage  of  Gulliver,  the  problem  of  the  fear  of  death  and  its 
cure  is  presented  in  the  loathsomeness  of  the  immortal  creatures, 
the  Struldbrugs. 


116  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Swift  apparently  suffered  from  severe  anxiety  and  diffuse  hypo- 
chondriasis of  the  type  which  so  often  accompanies  an  unusually 
severe  castration  complex,  in  which  pregenital  determinants  are 
strong.  Another  characteristic  of  Swift's  hypochondriasis  was  that 
it  always  increased  when  he  was  confronted  by  sickness  in  others. 
Then  he  frequently  turned  away,  in  seeming  callousness,  but  gen- 
erally felt  worse  himself  at  once.  While  some  of  these  situations 
were  such  as  to  suggest  that  the  illness  of  another  made  him  feel 
guilty  and  that  he  was  not  a  man  who  could  face  much  guilt,  there 
is  further  the  question  whether  the  sight  of  suffering  did  not  cause 
him  to  take  it  onto  himself  through  a  process  of  primary  identifica- 
tion. This  is  defended  by  Swift  in  a  bitter  poem  Life  and  Character 
of  Dr.  Swift,  written  in  1731,  in  which  he  states,  "I  could  give 
instances  enough  that  Human  Friendship  is  but  Stuff,  Whene'er 
flatt'ring  Puppy  cries  You  are  his  Dearest  Friend  ...  he  lyes. — " 
and  later,  "True  Friendship  in  two  breasts  requires  The  same 
Aversions  and  Desires;  My  friend  should  have,  when  I  complain,, 
A  Fellow-feeling  for  my  Pain."  A  friend  should  identify  com- 
pletely, be  a  mirror  image  of  one's  self. 

What  was  written  so  large  and  so  conspicuously  in  all  of  his 
impersonal  writings,  and  was  dealt  with  very  delicately  in  his  let- 
ters was  his  vivid  preoccupation  with  the  affairs  of  the  lower 
bowel.3  Gulliver  recounts  the  time,  conditions,  and  utilization  of 
his  toilet  functioning,  especially  his  defecation,  with  a  fidelity 
worthy  of  a  young  child  on  a  trip  and  a  little  confused  about  how 
to  go  about  these  essential  duties.  In  the  Fourth  Voyage  it  is  quite 
clear  that  the  foul  Yahoos  represent  the  dirty,  unrestrained  sexual 
people  while  the  Houyhnhnms  are  the  idealized,  gentle,  reason- 
able ones,  the  superego  figures,  possessing  all  of  the  reaction  for- 
mations against  the  primitive  animal  instincts.  In  some  of  Swift's 
poems  he  was  particularly  outspoken  concerning  the  filthiness  of 
the  female  body.4  In  the  Second  Voyage  of  the  Travels,  it  is  the 
older  nurse  (who  suckles  the  year-old  child  who  has  in  turn  been 
threatening  the  tiny  Gulliver)  who  is  described  as  the  most  loath- 
some of  all  creatures.  It  is  at  this  point  in  the  Travels  that  Swift 
through  Gulliver  splits  the  nurse  image  into  two,  creating  an  over- 
grown foul  and  smelly  wet  nurse  and  a  preadolescent  protective 


Jonathan  Swift  117 

and  charming  little  girl  nurse.  In  general,  Gulliver,  like  Swift,  found 
body  apertures,  even  the  pores  of  the  skin,  disgusting.  That  this 
hostility  is  particularly  focused  on  nurses  is  apparent  in  other  pro- 
ductions as  well.  In  his  Directions  to  the  Nurse,  he  writes :  "If  you 
happen  to  let  the  child  fall  and  lame  it,  be  sure  never  confess  it; 
and  if  it  dies  all  is  safe.  Contrive  to  be  with  child  as  soon  as  you 
can,  while  you  are  giving  suck,  that  you  may  be  ready  for  another 
service  when  the  child  you  nurse  dies  or  is  weaned."  In  the  Mem- 
oirs of  Scriblerus,  there  are  similar  invectives  against  the  "accursed 
nurse"  who,  among  other  things,  made  the  infant's  ears  "lie  forever 
flat  and  immovable."  5 

A  second  theme,  rather  overproduced  in  Swift's  writing  and  in 
his  life  as  well,  is  the  confusion — determinedly  rationalized — be- 
tween the  sexes.  This  appears  specifically  in  his  open  wish  to  make 
boys  of  both  Stella  and  Vanessa;  further  elaborated  in  his  various 
treatises  on  Education.  Never  is  there  any  reference  to  the  prepara- 
tion of  girls  for  motherhood  or  even  for  the  social  demands  of  the 
day.  But  there  is  the  often-repeated  requirement  that  their  minds 
should  be  as  much  like  the  minds  of  men  as  possible,  and  always 
the  exhortation  to  be  cleanly,  reasonable,  and  dispassionate.  The 
confusion  of  the  sexes  is  further  apparent  in  the  (several  times  re- 
peated) description  of  low-hung  breasts  and  nipples,  which  ap- 
proximate the  male  genitalia.  With  his  tendency  to  the  polarization 
of  characteristics  he  tended  to  deal  life  into  pairs  of  opposites.  He 
would  see  women  as  essentially  emotional  and  men  as  reasonable, 
temperate  and  just.  It  was  the  women  who  were  the  dangerous 
seducers  and  the  destroyers  of  reason.  In  the  country  of  the 
Houyhnhnms,  the  horses  were  male  and  female,  and  so  were  the 
Yahoos;  yet  predominantly  the  Yahoos  seemed  to  represent  the 
evil,  dirty,  sexual,  female  elements,  and  the  horses  the  honorable, 
lust,  deliberate,  and  gently  male  elements  of  character.  In  a  letter, 
Swift  even  referred  to  Stella  as  a  Yahoo.  To  make  an  advance  to 
no  one  was  one  of  his  stated  principles  of  behavior,  neither  to  man 
nor  woman.  In  order  that  he  might  be  quite  safe,  others  must 
always  take  the  first  step  toward  him. 

Swift  was  a  stalwart,  well-built  man,  with  striking  blue  eyes 
that  were  sometimes  cold  and  penetrating,  and  again  sparkling  and 


118  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

merry.  Pope  described  Swift's  eyes  as  being  azure  as  the  heavens. 
He  was  possessed  of  unusual  charm  and  wit;  a  suave,  adroit  man, 
he  was  sought  after  in  social  affairs  and  as  a  diner-out,  a  favorite 
of  both  men  and  women.  His  driving  curiosity  and  ambitions,  ex- 
pressed in  his  many  interests,  and  his  furious  activities  which  made 
him  time  and  again  the  focus  of  all  attention  were  so  thoroughly 
knit  into  his  character  that  one  is  likely  to  forget  how  much  these 
result  from  primitive  scoptophilia  and  exhibitionism  which  con- 
tinually alternated  and  interplayed,  the  very  contrasts  increasing 
the  dramatic  quality  of  the  man.  It  was  to  be  expected  that  a 
posthumous  child  would  inevitably  be  a  special  child,  as  much  or 
more  than  is  the  child  with  the  caul.  Certainly  too,  the  kidnapping 
and  the  life  in  the  home  of  the  nurse  in  England  would  tend  to 
make  him  an  object  of  great  interest  and  curiosity.  A  woman  who 
kidnaps  a  child  is  in  some  way  a  pathological  person,  with  a  too 
intense  interest  in  the  child  whatever  its  meaning  to  her  may  be. 
Further,  while  there  was  gossipy  rumor  about  the  possible  illegiti- 
macy of  the  infant,  born  so  long  after  his  father's  death  in  Ireland, 
it  is  only  reasonable  to  assume  that  such  gossip  would  be  even 
stronger  in  England  when  the  nurse,  whether  married  or  not,  re- 
turned with  this  baby  after  a  prolonged  absence  in  Ireland. 

In  the  Travels,  active  and  passive  voyeurism  is  ubiquitous.  Not 
only  were  the  voyages  undertaken  out  of  a  lust  of  the  eye,  intu- 
itively forecast  by  Gulliver  years  before  their  beginning  was  ration- 
alized as  being  motivated  by  economic  considerations,  but  it  is  also 
clear  that  the  seagoing  surgeon  found  the  pressures  of  family  life 
irksome  in  the  extreme.  In  the  First  Voyage,  Gulliver  is  an  enor- 
mous figure  of  overwhelming  importance,  cast  up  out  of  the  sea, 
and  endangering  those  around  him  by  his  very  existence.  This  may 
very  well  express  the  primary  narcissistic  omnipotence  of  the  in- 
fant who  did  threaten  the  welfare  of  those  who  cared  for  him.  In 
the  Second  Voyage,  he  is  reduced  to  a  small  size  among  giants,  ex- 
pressive of  the  helplessness  of  the  child  and  the  awareness  of  his 
small  size  which  must  become  apparent  to  an  infant  between  a  year 
and  eighteen  months.6  In  both  Voyages,  Gulliver  is  put  on  exhibit 
for  the  populace  and  himself  is  engaged  in  noting  everything  that 
goes  on  around  him.  The  specific  reference  to  genital  exhibitionism 


Jonathan  Swift  119 

has  already  been  noted.  In  general,  however,  it  is  conspicuous  that 
the  exhibitionism  is  largely  expressed  in  excretory  rather  than  in 
genital  sensual  or  reproductive  terms.  In  the  Third  Voyage,  the 
voyeurism  is  almost  wholly  active  and  in  any  event  is  expressed 
largely  in  social  and  not  in  personal  corporeal  terms.  Gulliver  does 
reciprocate,  giving  a  short  account  of  the  wonders  and  activities 
of  England. 

Perhaps  the  most  fascinating  problem  of  Swift's  development 
was  the  configuration  of  his  Oedipus  complex.  He  had  no  real 
father  on  whom  to  play  out  his  Oedipal  development.  Indeed  his 
Oedipal  crime  was  accomplished  by  his  very  conception,  after 
which  his  father  died  while  the  son  lived,  and  possessed  his  mother, 
at  least  in  infancy.  Whether  or  not  he  found  a  substitute  father 
during  the  years  with  the  nurse  in  Whitehaven,  he  was  again  con- 
fronted clearly  with  a  fatherless  state  precisely  at  the  height  of 
the  developmental  Oedipal  period.  That  there  was  an  attempt  to 
find  a  father  by  an  interest  in  his  English  ancestors,  especially  his 
English  clergyman  grandfather,  is  probable.  The  nature  of  his 
Oedipal  crime  may  well  be  expressed  in  the  Second  Voyage  of 
Gulliver  in  which  he  is  given  a  temple  as  a  place  to  stay,  which 
had  been  defiled  by  the  murder  of  a  man  many  years  before.7 
Gulliver's  recalling  of  the  heroic  ancestors  of  history  on  the  Island 
of  Glubbdubdrib  belongs  here. 

At  the  time  when  most  boys  are  giving  up  their  sexual  longings 
for  the  mother,  Swift's  mother  left  him,  and  he  was  presented 
with  a  collective  homosexual  existence.  It  is  evident  that  such  a 
concatenation  of  events  would  enormously  increase  feelings  of 
guilt  from  whatever  source;  and  might  lead  to  a  reinforcement  of 
righteousness  and  increased  effort  in  the  direction  of  spirituality, 
together  with  a  strong  rebellion  against  the  unfairness  and  hypo- 
critical attitudes  often  encountered  in  the  church.  Other  determi- 
nants of  this  attitude  will  be  dealt  with  in  connection  with  the 
discussion  of  the  Family  Romance. 

His  attitude  toward  the  church  resembled  much  the  disillusion 
which  children  ordinarily  feel  in  their  parents,  and  certainly  the 
church  was  quite  literally  bound  up  with  Swift's  forefathers.  After 
the  age  of  five,  Swift  had  institutions  instead  of  parents,  as  he 


120  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

passed  from  school  to  church  to  society  in  general.  It  is  no  wonder 
that  having  "killed"  his  father  by  his  conception,  and  lost  mothers 
three  times  before  the  age  of  six,  he  should  have  accepted  the 
protection  of  the  school  with  chronic  suppressed  rage  and  the 
appearance  of  low-spirited  compliance.  What  were  the  explana- 
tions regarding  his  mother  and  sister  made  to  him  during  this 
period?  What  accounts  did  he  hear  from  Uncle  Godwin  and  his 
cousins?  These  influences  in  his  childhood  are  most  mysteriously 
hidden.  The  early  death  of  the  father — prehistoric  as  far  as  the 
child  was  concerned — could  not  help  but  increase  the  boy's  fear 
of  death  for  himself,  according  to  the  law  of  talion;  a  fear  which 
he  met  repeatedly  by  the  denial  that  life  was  worth  having.  While 
he  cursed  his  birth  picturesquely,  he  celebrated  his  birthdays  for 
himself  and  the  people  close  to  him  faithfully;  and  he  lived  be- 
yond the  Biblical  time  allotment. 

That  the  boy  Swift,  lonely  and  disappointed,  should  have  suf- 
fered from  masturbation  worries  is  not  surprising.  Swift,  the  man, 
wrote  seldom  of  any  genital  sensuality,  but  there  are  at  least  two 
places  in  which  he  makes  clear  and  extensive  references,  and  in 
several  others,  indirect  statements  regarding  masturbation  fantasies 
and  castration  fears.  Most  outspoken  of  these  is  a  report  of  the 
sagacity  of  Dr.  Martin  Scriblerus  in  treating  a  young  nobleman 
at  court  who  suffered  from  distempers  of  the  mind.  This  young 
man  began  to  show  affectations  of  speech,  to  talk  in  verse,  to 
exhibit  a  whimsicality  of  behavior,  and  to  seek  odd  companions. 
Scriblerus  diagnosed  him  as  being  in  love,  but  since  there  was  no 
woman  involved  and  the  young  man  talked  to  himself,  the  doctor 
determined  that  the  patient  was  blindly  in  love  with  himself. 
"There  are  people,"  he  said,  "who  discover  from  their  youth  a 
most  amorous  inclination  to  themselves,"  adding  later,  "There  are 
some  people  who  are  far  gone  in  this  passion  of  self-love:  they 
keep  a  secret  intrigue  with  themselves  and  hide  it  from  all  the 
world  besides.  This  Patient  has  not  the  least  care  of  the  Reputa- 
tion of  his  Beloved,  he  is  downright  scandalous  in  his  behavior 
with  himself.  ..."  Scriblerus  then  proceeds  to  describe  the  sort 
of  remedies  which  Swift  so  often  recommended  for  himself  and 
others:  that  he  should  give  up  extravagance;  that  he  should  travel 


Jonathan  Swift  121 

in  relative  hardship;  look  at  himself  in  "naked  truth,"  and  purge 
himself  weekly.  In  short,  the  sufferer  should  do  those  things  which 
Lucretius  had  recommended  as  a  cure  in  the  case  of  women.  If 
all  this  did  not  avail,  nothing  was  left,  said  the  Doctor,  but  to 
let  the  man  marry  himself  and  when  he  had  tired  of  himself,  he 
might  drown  himself  in  a  pond.  What  a  complete  version  of 
Narcissus! 

It  is  to  be  remembered  that  the  other  traveling  surgeon  had 
his  preliminary  training  under  a  master  named  Bates.  To  quote 
again  from  Gulliver's  own  story,  "My  good  Master  Bates,  dying 
in  two  years  after  and  I  having  few  friends,  my  business  began 
to  fail;  for  my  conscience  would  not  suffer  me  to  imitate  the  bad 
practice  of  too  many  among  my  brethren."  There  is  the  ques- 
tion whether  this  apparent  pun  in  words  can  possibly  be  signifi- 
cant. Swift's  peculiar  and  varied  relation  to  language  in  which 
punning  has  a  conspicuous  place  lends  support  to  the  notion  that 
this  might  even  be  a  sly  conscious  trick  of  self-revelation.  This 
seems  the  more  probable  in  that  the  location  of  this  explanation 
in  the  Gulliver  account  corresponds  so  closely  to  that  in  the 
Memoirs  of  Scriblerus  of  the  story  of  the  young-nobleman-in-love- 
with-himself.  In  the  earlier  Scriblerus  version,  the  confession  is 
more  explicit  but  is  disowned  through  the  device  of  attributing  the 
disturbance  to  a  patient;  in  the  Gulliver  account  it  is  admitted  but 
concealed  in  the  pun.  The  further  question  might  be  raised  whether 
the  word  masturbation  was  known  to  Swift.  From  the  fact  that  it 
had  appeared  as  part  of  a  title  of  a  book  only  a  few  years  after 
Swift's  death,  we  may  surmise  that  it  probably  had  some  fairly 
wide  usage  before  this.8 

The  greatest  exposition  of  the  masturbation  fantasies  appears, 
however,  in  the  Third  Voyage.  Here,  after  a  glorious  start,  Gul- 
liver was  much  reduced  by  the  pirates,  set  adrift  in  a  canoe,  and 
fell  into  great  despondency.  He  finally  came  to  an  island  which 
was  perfectly  round  in  shape,  four  and  one  half  miles  across,  and 
floated  in  the  air,  rising  and  falling  above  the  body  of  the  con- 
tinent from  which  it  sometimes  shut  out  the  sun.  Many  of  the 
people  on  this  island  were  so  taken  up  with  intense  speculation 
that  they  forgot  to  speak  or  pay  attention  to  those  around  them. 


122  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Consequently,  they  kept  "flappers"  who  tapped  them  on  the 
mouth,  eyes  or  ears,  with  blown  bladders  which  were  attached 
like  flails  to  the  ends  of  short  sticks  and  contained  small  quan- 
tities of  dried  peas  or  pebbles.  As  has  already  been  described, 
this  island  moved  up  and  down  to  a  height  of  four  miles,  being 
balanced  so  delicately  on  a  lodestone  that  the  tenderest  hand  could 
move  it.9  The  island  also  somewhat  controlled  the  fate  of  the 
continent  of  Balnibarbi  beneath  it,  but  since  it  was  a  place  of  in- 
tense speculation  without  reality  it  had  exerted  a  deleterious  influ- 
ence upon  Balnibarbi,  whose  capital  city  contained  a  museum  of 
magic  and  fantastic  inventions  all  in  a  state  of  incompleteness, 
while  the  country  roundabout  was  impoverished  and  miserably 
wasted.  The  senates  and  councils  were  troubled  with  "redundant, 
ebullient,  and  other  peccant  humours,  with  many  diseases  of  the 
head  and  more  of  the  heart;  with  strong  convulsions,  with  griev- 
ous contractions  of  the  nerves  and  sinews  in  both  hands,  but 
especially  the  right — "  etc.  etc.  Gulliver  offered  suggestions  for 
further  additions  to  their  activities,  in  the  establishment  of  a  de- 
partment of  informers,  spies,  prosecutors,  witnesses,  etc. 

Swift's  early  life  would  certainly  predispose  to  the  development 
of  a  stunting  bisexuality,  as  indeed  his  mature  years  showed.  That 
there  was  further  a  fixation  at  the  anal  level  and  an  extreme  im- 
pairment of  genital  functioning  is  indicated  in  his  character  and 
his  writings.  In  addition,  he  tended  to  absorb  friends  into  his 
service  in  a  demanding  and  possessive  fashion — the  infantile  oral 
quality  of  these  relationships  being  partly  obscured  by  the  man's 
real  genius  which  could  fascinate  and  command  many  of  those 
around  him,  so  that  they  wanted  the  more  to  be  absorbed  by  him, 
but  were  likely  to  find  themselves  considerably  burdened  after  a 
time.  Even  Charles  Ford,  devoted  to  Swift  to  the  end,  seemed 
ultimately  to  put  geographical  barriers  between  himself  and  the 
older  man.  Two  additional  developments  within  this  setting  are 
of  particular  interest,  viz.,  the  influence  of  his  special  anal  char- 
acter on  the  texture  of  the  Family  Romance,  which  fate  deter- 
mined in  reality  and  stimulated  in  fantasy,  and  the  special  nature 
of  his  relationship  to  his  sister,  which  in  turn  left  a  strong  mark 
on  his  relations  with  other  women. 


Jonathan  Swift  123 

On  the  one  hand,  he  had  a  prenatal  Oedipal  situation  which 
was  finished  decisively  even  before  his  birth,  and  on  the  other, 
the  events  of  the  postnatal  years  made  it  impossible  for  him  really 
to  reach,  much  less  to  conclude,  any  substitute  Oedipal  relation- 
ship at  the  appropriate  period  of  his  development.  Parents  seemed 
simply  to  disappear  at  the  most  critical  junctures  of  his  life.  There 
seems  little  doubt  but  that  the  young  child  was  aware  that  he 
was  not  the  son  of  the  nurse  during  his  early  stay  in  England,  a 
situation  in  which  fantasies  about  his  origin  would  inevitably  have 
arisen.  On  his  return  to  Ireland,  to  his  mother  and  sister,  he  must 
have  had  memories  and  fantasies  regarding  the  family  he  had  left 
in  England.  And  again  in  a  few  months,  he  had  neither  of  these 
families  and  was  left  only  with  the  memories  of  both.  No  wonder 
then  that  he  was  resentful  of  his  uncle  and  became  a  depressed, 
unproductive,  and  submissive  child. 

The  anal  stamp  of  his  character  can  only  have  been  established 
during  the  period  with  the  nurse  in  England.  It  appeared  vividly 
and  compellingly  throughout  his  life,  in  a  direct  form  in  his  writ- 
ing and  in  strong  reaction  formations  of  excessive  cleanliness  and 
stern  ideals  in  his  personal  life  and  speech — so  stern,  however,  as 
to  destroy  any  acceptance  of  that  margin  of  genitophallic  interest 
which  would  otherwise  have  survived  the  prohibitive  Oedipal  situ- 
ation. It  is  amply  clear  from  the  illustrations  already  given  that 
Swift  considered  the  spoken  word  and  the  written  word  as  miles 
apart.  The  spoken  word  was  airy,  pure,  and  of  the  spirit,  a  quality 
which  he  attributed  further  especially  to  vowels.  The  written 
word  was  often  discharged  in  secret  and  disclaimed  until  it  had 
proved  itself — and  appeared  "fathered  by  another,"  as  he  once 
wrote.  He  considered  the  vowels  as  "airy  little  creatures  all  of 
different  voice  and  features."  By  contrast  the  proper  names  in 
Gulliver's  Travels  are  heavy  with  repeated  consonants  and  dupli- 
cated syllables  overburdened  by  consonants,  e.g.,  Glubbdubdrib, 
Luggnagg,  Traldragdubh,  Glumdalclitch,  Clumegnig.  These  words 
suggest  an  onomatopoeic  derivation  from  the  sound  of  drippings 
and  droppings,  possibly  originating  in  the  overly  intense  preoccu- 
pation with  toilet  functions,  which  seemed  for  the  child  Jonathan 
to  engulf  and  then  to  color  his  important  infantile  philosophies. 


124  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

In  addition  to  these  klang  and  repetitive  associations,  one  should 
note  the  great  tendency  that  Swift  had  to  play  with  words,  to 
pun  in  a  way  that  would  conceal  and  tell  at  the  same  time.  He 
clearly  made  combined  identifications  through  names  which  func- 
tion as  in  dreams  to  condense  associative  connections.  The  orig- 
inal Journal  to  Stella  (1710-1713)  which  has  been  much  edited 
in  most  of  its  published  forms  reveals  Swift's  language  in  its  most 
infantile  oral  qualities  of  endearment,  in  which  "you"  is  "oo," 
"dearest"  is  "dealest,"  r's  and  l's  get  strangely  mixed  up,  and  the 
effect  is  of  a  lisping  child  saying  good  night  in  a  seductive  way, 
as  for  example:  "Nite  dealest  richar  M.D.  Sawey  dealest  M.D. 
M.D.  M.D.  FW,  FW,  FW  ME,  ME  Poo  Pdfr.  Lele,  lele,  lele." 
The  Journal  is  replete  with  such  passages.  We  shall  not  translate 
it  all.  Swift  himself  said,  "When  I  am  writing  in  our  language,  I 
make  up  my  mouth  just  as  if  I  were  speaking  it."  "Our  richar 
Gangridge"  is  "our  little  language."  Of  the  abbreviations,  "M.D." 
stood  for  "My  dears,"  "FW"  meant  either  "farewell"  or  "foolish 
wenches,"  "ME"  stood  for  "Madame  Elderly"  (i.e.,  Dingley); 
"Pdfr"  was  "poor  dear  foolish  rogue"  Swift,  and  "Ppt"  stood  for 
"Poor  pretty  thing"  Stella.10  The  "little  language"  was  predomi- 
nantly baby  talk,  mixed  however  with  simple  code  and  "pig  Latin" 
contrivances  so  characteristic  of  the  prepuberty  years. 

It  seems  possible  that  the  names  "Yahoo"  and  "Houyhnhnm" 
are  peculiarly  condensed  "nonsense  words,"  having  profoundly 
to  do  with  Gulliver's  effort  to  find  himself,  i.e.,  to  achieve  some 
integration  of  his  own  identity;  and  that  Yahoo  signifies  "Who  are 
you?"  and  Houyhnhnm,  the  sound  of  which  is  close  to  that  of 
"human"  contains  also  suggestions  of  the  pronouns  "you"  and 
"him"  and  "who"  in  a  jumbled  pig-Latin  fashion.  It  is  on  this 
voyage  that  Gulliver  is  forced  to  admit  his  primitive  dirty  attrac- 
tions, but  attempts  to  save  himself  through  adopting  the  rational- 
ity of  the  Houyhnhnms. 

The  Family  Romance  has  been  regarded  as  occurring  in  chil- 
dren who  are  especially  strongly  attached  to  the  parents  and  are 
sexually  active  and  imaginative,  yet  full  of  resentment  and  retalia- 
tory impulses  against  the  parents  who  have  been  prohibiting  the 
child's  sexual  practices.  Seeing  that  the  parents  indulge  in  pre- 


Jonathan  Swift  125 

cisely  these  activities,  which  had  been  labeled  as  bad  and  pun- 
ished in  the  child,  the  child  suffers  disillusionment  and  is  moved 
to  repudiate  the  parents.  He  then  adopts  new,  unsexual  and  lofty 
parents,  to  fortify  the  self  and  devaluate  the  parents.  There  is  then 
a  kind  of  masked  reversal  of  the  generations  out  of  revenge,  but 
as  Freud  remarks  in  his  original  article  on  this  subject,  the  en- 
nobled or  elevated  "adopted"  parents  really  represent  the  original 
estimate  of  the  own  parents. 

It  has  been  the  observation  of  the  author  that  the  Family  Ro- 
mance has  been  furthered  in  a  particularly  severe  and  sometimes 
malignant  form  in  children  whose  genital  development  and  Oedipal 
problem  have  been  gravely  distorted  by  severe  anal  fixations,  and 
also  in  those  who  have  had  such  overpowering  and  usually  anxious 
mothers  that  the  development  of  the  early  ego  has  been  possible 
only  through  an  early  negativistic  attitude,  an  ego  organization 
through  opposition,  which  follows  an  overly  strong  attempt  at  ab- 
sorption by  the  mother.  In  some  instances  indeed,  the  early  ego 
negativism  and  the  anal  fixation  combine — exactly  the  same  sort 
of  anxiously  demanding  and  protective  mother  tending  to  promote 
both  in  a  basically  strong  and  well-endowed  child. 

Children  with  emphatic  theories  of  anal  birth,  like  Swift,  and 
with  nursery  ethics  based  on  approval  focused  on  matters  of  the 
toilet,  not  infrequently  utilize  their  interest  in  the  stool  and  its 
smell  or  gaseous  image  (as  thought  or  memory)  as  representative 
of  bad  and  good,  dirty  and  godly,  black  and  white,  low  and  high, 
etc.  This  dichotomizing  joins  directly  with  the  Family  Romance. 
The  foundling,  the  adopted  child — the  one  not  born  of  the  real 
parents — is  either  the  child  of  the  gypsies  abandoned  by  them  or 
the  royal  child  that  has  been  stolen  by  them.  This  theme  recurs 
so  often  in  literature  as  to  bear  witness  to  its  universality  and  its 
importance.11  Swift  almost  never  wrote  or  spoke  of  his  father,  other 
than  to  remark  that  the  father  lived  long  enough  to  secure  his 
mother's  reputation.  Obviously  the  fantasy  of  bastardy  is  here  at 
hand,  under  the  mask  of  humor.  His  own  father  had  been  unsuc- 
cessful and  abandoned  his  family  by  death  and  by  poverty.  Neither 
did  Swift  write  of  the  nurse  except  in  the  indirect  ways  already 
quoted.  On  the  other  hand,  Sir  William  Temple,  the  ambassador 


126  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

and  man  of  the  world,  emerges  quite  clearly  as  the  noble,  illus- 
trious father,  with  Swift's  own  clergyman  grandfather  as  an  earlier 
and  lest  satisfactory  version. 

It  is  known  that  Swift's  relationship  with  his  mother  remained 
cordial  throughout  and  that  he  visited  her  even  at  the  expense  of 
making  tedious  trips  on  horseback  or  by  stage  on  his  journeys  to 
England.  In  spite  of  this  she  plays  little  part  in  his  letters,  and 
the  one  preserved  anecdote  is  an  indication  of  her  reversed  Oedi- 
pal  attachment  to  her  son.  The  year  of  her  death,  when  he  was 
forty-two,  Swift  began  his  Journal  to  Stella,  a  curious  mixture  of 
the  memoir  type  of  chronicle  of  worldly  activities  and  a  highly 
personal  communication  involving  the  "little  language"  which  was 
made  up  partly  of  baby  talk  and  partly  of  abbreviations. 

In  all  the  biographies,  Jane  Swift  appears  as  but  a  shadow  in 
her  brother's  life.  She  was  about  two  years  older  than  Jonathan. 
We  first  get  a  definite  statement  about  her,  however,  when  it  is 
mentioned  that  she  was  a  member  of  the  Temple  household  along 
with  Jonathan  when  he  was  twenty-two.  One  of  Swift's  cousins 
mentions  hostility  between  the  brother  and  sister,  and  praises  the 
mother's  attitude  of  fairness  between  the  two.  Yet  it  seems  likely 
that  some  fantasied  image  of  his  sister  influenced  Swift  in  the  selec- 
tion of  the  three  women  who  were  to  play  important  parts  in  his 
life.  The  first  girl  to  whom  he  was  definitely  attached,  and  the 
only  one  whom  he  wished  to  marry,  was  named  Jane  and  was  the 
sister  or  cousin  12  of  a  college  friend.  The  other  two,  Stella  and 
Vanessa,  both  actually  named  Hester,  were  the  daughters  of  wid- 
ows, even  as  the  first  Jane  (Varina)  and  his  sister  Jane  were. 
Although  all  three  young  women  were  considerably  younger  than 
he,  he  tended  to  state  the  ages  of  Stella  and  Vanessa  as  two  (or 
more)  years  older  than  they  were,  and  also  occasionally  made 
them  younger.  His  attachment  to  them  contained  a  very  large  de- 
gree of  identification,  as  is  shown  in  his  wish  to  make  boys  of 
them  both,  and  his  repetition  of  his  own  history  with  them:  play- 
ing the  teacher  nurse  who  must  instruct  them  in  cleanliness,  in 
reading  and  writing,  and  improve  their  minds  generally.  With 
Stella,  he  even  so  closely  reproduced  his  own  situation  as  to  ab- 
duct her  in  charge  of  a  nurse  so  that  she  would  live  near  him  in 


Jonathan  Swift  127 

Ireland.  In  the  meantime,  he  sent  his  widowed  sister  Jane  to  live 
with  Stella's  mother  in  England.  It  seemed  that  some  change  over- 
took Swift  after  his  break  with  Jane  Waring  (which  came  at  the 
time  of  Temple's  death).  With  the  denial  of  any  hope  for  this 
marriage,  the  identification  with  the  woman  or  with  an  intermedi- 
ate sex  became  stronger.  (Such  identification  is  certainly  more 
frequently  the  outcome  of  a  disastrously  strong  Oedipal  attach- 
ment with  the  deformation  of  character  and  ideals  occurring  either 
at  about  six  years  or  at  puberty.  In  Swift  the  whole  problem  was 
delayed  and  complicated.)  Possibly  complete  impotence  overtook 
him  then.  This,  to  be  sure,  is  not  certain,  but  is  suggested  by  a  few 
references  and  especially  by  his  behavior.  Stella  and  Vanessa  were 
both  named  Hester — which  seems  possibly  an  extra  determinant 
for  sister,  this  being  the  more  probable  since  Swift  was  so  moved 
by  alliterative  sounds  and  puns.  The  sister  theme  is  unmistakably 
clear  in  the  account  of  the  blocking  of  the  marriage  between  Swift 
and  Stella,  which  was  to  be  a  marriage  in  form  only,  anyway. 

Reconstructive  interpretations  regarding  the  events  of  the  life, 
especially  events  of  the  first  years  of  a  man  who  has  been  dead 
more  than  two  hundred  years,  may  offend  many.  Yet  the  offense 
probably  consists  in  the  suggestion  by  deduction  that  certain  actual 
events  did  occur,  as  indicated  by  the  known  characteristics,  prob- 
lems and  repetitive  actions,  supported  by  the  memory  traces  which 
remain  in  so  many  disguised  forms.  We  are  generally  less  cautious 
and  less  perturbed  concerning  the  reverse,  namely  speculations  re- 
garding the  effects  of  known  experiences — perhaps  because  we 
have  such  a  respect  for  the  objectivity  of  "factual"  data  (although 
it  is  often  misremembered  and  subjectively  distorted)  and  are  less 
respectful  toward  the  personality  traits  and  attitudes,  which  must 
be  described  rather  than  enumerated.  Yet  sometimes  these  char- 
acteristics are  of  such  a  nature  that  the  experienced  psychoanalyst 
knows  just  as  definitely  as  the  internist  observing  later  sequelae  of 
tuberculosis  or  poliomyelitis,  that  the  deformity  is  the  result  of 
specific  attacks  upon  the  young  organism,  not  by  invading  bac- 
teria, but  through  the  agencies  of  those  who  have  nurtured  and 
trained  the  infant. 

So  it  was  with  the  "anal  quality"  of  Swift's  character:  his  great 


128  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

personal  immaculateness,  his  secretiveness,  his  intense  ambition, 
his  pleasure  in  less  obvious  dirtiness,  his  stubborn  vengefulness  in 
righteous  causes.  Such  traits  of  character  develop  only  where  the 
early  control  of  the  excretory  functions  has  been  achieved  under 
too  great  stress  and  often  too  early.  The  effect  is  of  a  stratum  of 
anxious  preoccupation  with  these  functions  and  their  products  and 
derivatives  throughout  the  entire  life. 

We  are  justified  in  concluding  that  the  kidnapping  nurse,  how- 
ever devoted  to  her  little  charge,  was  in  some  way  overly  consci- 
entious and  harsh  in  her  early  toilet  training,  and  left  this  stamp 
of  the  nursery  morals  of  the  chamber  pot  forever  on  his  character. 
That  she  was  ambitious  for  his  intellectual  development  is  indi- 
cated by  Swift's  own  belief  that  on  his  return  to  England  at  about 
four,  he  already  could  read  any  chapter  of  the  Bible.  Whether  or 
not  this  was  literally  true,  we  must  probably  accept  it  as  an  indi- 
cation both  of  the  child's  basic  endowment  and  of  the  nurse's 
readiness  to  develop  precocious  intellect  in  him.  A  kind  of  Unking 
of  the  written  or  printed  word  with  the  excretory  functions — the 
two  were  being  mastered  and  gotten  into  usable  order  at  the  same 
time — is  dramatically  apparent  in  Swift's  writing  as  in  the  illus- 
trations already  given.  But  when  these  educative  achievements  of 
intellect  are  being  urged  or  forced  before  the  emotional  energy 
is  sufficiently  freed  from  attention  to  bodily  preoccupation,  the 
latter  invade  the  former  and  the  two  are  indissolubly  linked.  Words 
then  become  endowed  with  animate  qualities,  have  magic  and  per- 
sonalized meanings,  and  the  functioning  of  speech,  reading,  and 
writing  may  become  precociously  overly  emotionalized  and  conse- 
quently vulnerable  to  conflictful  problems,  which  produce  block- 
ings. We  are  used  to  seeing  this  in  spoken  language,  in  the  vicissi- 
tudes of  stuttering  and  other  speech  defects;  but  with  Swift  it  is 
clear  that  such  an  emotional  battleground  was  shifted  to  the  written 
and  the  printed  word.  "I  am  very  angry,"  wrote  Swift  to  Arbuthnot 
in  1714,  "I  have  a  mind  to  be  very  angry  and  to  let  my  anger 
break  out  in  some  manner  that  will  not  please  them,  at  the  end 
of  a  pen."  When  Swift  was  angry  but  trying  to  please  "them,"  as 
in  his  school  days  at  Kilkenny,  he  did  not  break  out  with  a  pen, 
but  was  compliant,  depressed  and  even  thought  to  be  a  little  stupid. 


Jonathan  Swift  129 

That  the  infant  Jonathan  lived  in  close  bodily  intimacy  with 
the  nurse,  to  such  a  degree  and  with  such  continuity  as  to  pro- 
duce a  tendency  to  overidentify  with  the  woman  is  strongly  indi- 
cated, the  problem  of  anatomical  differences  never  being  solved 
with  any  ordinary  degree  of  stability,  and  met  later  by  fear  of  the 
female  body  or  attempts  to  endow  the  girl  with  masculine  attri- 
butes, if  she  is  to  be  in  the  least  either  desirable  or  endurable. 
This  was  spoken  and  written  boldly  by  the  adult  Swift  in  his 
rearings  of  Stella  and  of  Vanessa,  in  his  admonitions  to  other  young 
ladies  seeking  his  advice,  and  in  his  frequent  dissertations  on  edu- 
cation. This  demand  that  the  girl  should  be  masculine  could  be 
outspoken  in  the  realm  of  the  mind  and  emotions,  but  could  not 
be  as  specifically  stated  concerning  the  body.  Here  it  appeared 
clearly  in  a  negative  form:  the  emphasis  on  the  dirtiness  and  re- 
pulsiveness  of  the  body  apertures,  of  which  the  woman  possesses 
one  more,  and  that  a  conspicuous  one,  than  the  man.  To  Swift, 
every  body  aperture,  even  the  pores  of  the  skin,  became  on  occa- 
sion a  suggestion  of  anus.  That  in  unconscious  or  preconscious 
fantasy  Swift  sometimes  tended  to  phallacize  the  woman  and  to 
identify  the  entire  body  of  the  child  with  the  female  phallus,  is 
apparent  in  a  careful  reading  of  Gulliver:  the  oversize  maidens 
make  sport  with  the  tiny  man  by  setting  him  astride  their  nipples 
and  bouncing  him  there;  the  women  similarly  have  their  fun  by 
blowing  him  in  his  canoe  back  and  forth  upon  a  narrow  channel 
which  has  been  constructed  for  him;  the  little  girl  nurse  carries 
him  in  a  box  on  her  lap;  one  time  he  slips  through  the  fingers  of 
a  lady  who  is  handling  him  and  falls  in  such  a  way  as  to  get 
caught  in  her  stomacher  from  which  he  dangles  in  a  peculiar 
position. 

This  identification  of  the  male  with  the  female  phallus  is  char- 
acteristic of  the  transvestite.  While  we  have  no  indication  of  Swift's 
showing  any  well-marked  transvestite  pressures,  it  is  possible  that 
his  accepting  the  robes  of  the  Anglican  priest  included  such  a 
hidden  tendency  in  a  way  which  was  acceptable  and  could  be 
fairly  well  integrated  into  his  life.  Certainly  his  almost  ritualistically 
compressed  demands  of  the  women  who  were  to  be  close  to  him, 
that  they  should  be  of  intermediate  sex,  eschewing  feminine  adorn- 


130  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

ment  and  cultivating  masculine  minds;  his  attempts  to  convert 
them  somehow  into  replicas  of  himself  as  a  child,  while  he  played 
the  part  of  the  nurse,  teaching  them  how  to  read  and  write  and 
keep  cleanly  bodies — all  this  has  the  stamp  of  fetishism,  although 
he  was  probably  not  a  fetishist  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word. 
That  Swift  was  continually  obsessed  with  body  imagery  which 
formed  the  almost  ever-present  backdrop  for  his  moralizing  satire 
can  be  readily  demonstrated.  Such  a  quotation  as  that  given  by 
Bullitt  at  the  opening  of  his  book  is  significant: 

To  this  End,  I  have  some  Time  since,  with  a  World  of  Pains 
and  Art,  dissected  the  carcass  of  Humane  Nature,  and  read  many 
useful  Lectures  upon  the  several  Parts,  both  Containing  and 
Contained;  till  at  last  it  smelt  so  strong  I  could  preserve  it  no 
longer.  Upon  which  I  have  been  at  great  Expense  to  fit  up  all  the 
Bones  with  exact  Contexture  and  in  due  Symmetry;  so  that  I  am 
ready  to  show  a  very  compleat  Anatomy  thereof  to  all  curious 
Gentlemen  and  others. 

It  is  quite  appropriate  that  Bullitt's  book  on  Swift  is  subtitled 
"The  Anatomy  of  Satire."  Swift  wrote  satirically  to  prove  that 
the  stomach  is  the  seat  of  honor. 

I  will  say  that  a  writer's  stomach,  appetite  and  victuals  may  be 
judged  from  his  method,  style  and  subject  as  certainly  as  if  you 
were  his  mess-fellow  and  sat  at  table  with  him.  Hence  we  call  a 
subject  dry,  a  writer  insipid,  notions  crude  and  undigested,  a 
pamphlet  empty  and  hungry,  a  style  jejune, — and  many  such- 
like expressions,  plainly  alluding  to  the  diet  of  an  author.  .  .  . 

[Or:]  Air  being  a  heavy  Body  and  therefore  .  .  .  continually 
descending,  must  needs  be  more  so,  when  loaden  and  pressed 
down  by  words;  which  are  also  Bodies  of  much  Weight  and 
Gravity,  as  it  is  manifest  from  those  deep  Impressions  they  make 
and  leave  upon  us,  and  therefore  must  be  delivered  from  a  due 
altitude,  or  else  they  will  neither  carry  a  good  aim  nor  Fall  down 
with  a  sufficient  force  .  .  .  [Swift's  satirical  account  of  the  "Sys- 
tem of  Epicurus"]. 

That  somewhere  in  the  course  of  the  intimate  association  of 
the  infant  Jonathan  with  the  anonymous  nurse,  things  took  a 
marked  turn  for  the  worse  in  the  development  of  the  child's  attach- 
ment is  probably  indicated  in  the  Second  Voyage  of  Gulliver: 


Jonathan  Swift  131 

here,  it  will  be  remembered,  Gulliver  is  no  longer  the  oversize 
important  and  threatening  figure  which  he  has  been  on  his  First 
Voyage,  but  is  now  diminutive,  helpless,  and  himself  endangered 
among  giants.  It  is  in  this  land  of  Brobdingnag  that  the  disgusting 
nurse  appears  and,  to  quote  Gulliver,  she  was  carrying 

a  child  of  a  year  old  in  her  arms,  who  immediately  spied  me  and 
began  a  squall  that  you  might  have  heard  from  London  Bridge  to 
Chelsea  after  the  usual  oratory  of  infants,  to  get  me  for  a  play- 
thing. The  mother,  out  of  pure  indulgence,  took  me  up  and  put 
me  toward  the  child,  who  presently  seized  me  by  the  middle  and 
got  my  head  in  his  mouth  where  I  roared  so  loud  that  the  urchin 
was  frighted  and  let  me  drop.  I  should  infallibly  have  broke  my 
neck  if  the  mother  had  not  held  her  apron  under  me.  The  nurse 
to  quiet  the  babe  made  use  of  a  rattle  .  .  .  but  all  in  vain. — She 
was  forced  to  apply  the  last  remedy  by  giving  it  suck.  I  must  con- 
fess no  object  ever  disgusted  me  so  much  as  the  sight  of  her 
monstrous  breast  which  I  cannot  tell  what  to  compare  with,  so 
as  to  give  the  curious  reader  an  idea  of  its  bulk,  shape,  and  color. 
It  stood  prominent  six  foot  and  could  not  be  less  than  sixteen  in 
circumference.  The  nipple  was  about  half  the  bigness  of  my  head, 
and  the  hue  both  of  that  and  the  dug  so  varified,  with  spots,  pim- 
ples and  freckles  that  nothing  could  appear  more  nauseous:  for 
I  had  a  near  sight  of  her,  she  sitting  down  the  more  conveniently 
to  give  suck,  and  I  standing  on  the  table.  This  made  me  reflect 
upon  the  fair  skins  of  our  English  ladies  who  appear  so  beautiful 
to  us — only  because  they  are  our  own  size,  and  their  defects  not 
to  be  seen  but  through  a  magnifying  glass  where  we  find  by  ex- 
periment that  the  smoothest  and  whitest  skins  look  rough,  coarse, 
and  ill-colored. 

It  was  after  this  that  Gulliver  was  adopted  and  protected  by  the 
little  girl  nurse,  not  yet  at  puberty,  who  so  charmingly  carried  him 
every  place  with  her  in  a  small  box  made  for  him. 

The  passage  just  quoted  depicts  rather  bitterly  Gulliver's  plight 
of  finding  himself  with  the  tables  turned — small,  threatened,  not 
only  by  the  adults  but  by  a  year-old  child,  suckled  by  the  loath- 
some nurse.  The  description  of  the  breast  certainly  contains  ele- 
ments of  breast  awe  and  envy  turned  to  loathing  and  with  the 
consequent  aim  of  degrading  it.  The  age  of  the  threatening  infant 
is  just  the  age  at  which  Swift  himself  was  kidnapped  and  the  age 
at  which  according  to  Swift's  Modest  Proposal,  the  infants  of  the 


132  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

poor  should  be  eaten  by  the  rich.  It  is  not  chance  either,  that 
the  tiny  Gulliver  is  in  danger  of  being  eaten  by  the  infant,  or  that 
he  scrupulously  recalls  in  the  next  breath,  as  it  were,  that  in  the 
days  of  his  bigness,  his  own  pores  and  his  stubbly  beard  were 
seen  as  disgusting.  What  would  appear  to  be  back  of  this  re- 
markable passage  is  that  the  nurse  became  pregnant  after  her 
return  to  England  and  in  due  time  had  a  child  whose  suckling 
upset  the  infant  Jonathan,  and  aroused  in  him  intensest  jealousy, 
biting  resentment  and  cannibalistic  feelings  toward  the  infant — 
projected  by  Gulliver  as  felt  toward  him  by  the  infant.  This  too 
is  connected  then  with  Swift's  Modest  Proposal  with  which  he  was 
to  fight  the  battles  of  the  depressed  Irish  families  with  satirical  fury 
nearly  sixty  years  later.  This  thought  of  benign  cannibalism  was, 
however,  in  the  background  of  Swift's  mind  quite  consciously  for 
many  years,  as  he  refers  to  it  in  the  Scriblerus  period  (1711-1714). 

The  image  of  the  disgusting  nurse's  breast  carried  with  it  fear, 
and  a  sense  of  its  similarity  to  a  pregnant  abdomen  and  to  an 
adult  phallus.  That  this  combined  image  is  rendered  less  danger- 
ous by  being  degraded  and  fecalized  is  suggested  in  the  passage 
already  quoted.  It  appears  that  when  Swift  refers  to  the  nipple 
as  the  dug,  which  he  does  when  he  is  disgusted,  the  word  itself  is 
very  close  to  the  word  dung.  Later,  in  the  Second  Voyage,  the  bad 
nurse  reappears  and  in  a  male  form,  as  the  evil,  kidnapping  mon- 
key who  drags  the  diminutive  Gulliver  out  of  his  little  house,  and 
holding  him  "as  a  nurse  does  a  child  she  is  going  to  suckle," 
squeezed  him  very  hard,  stroked  his  face,  and  probably  mistook 
him  for  a  very  young  monkey,  later  cramming  food  into  his  mouth 
from  a  bag  at  one  side  of  the  monkey's  chaps  and  patting  him 
when  he  could  not  eat — the  whole  spectacle  appearing  so  ridicu- 
lous that  the  onlookers  burst  into  laughter;  the  vile  stuff  having 
to  be  picked  out  by  the  amiable  little  girl  nurse.  Gulliver  was  ex- 
ceedingly sick  after  this,  and  the  monkey  was  executed  by  royal 
decree.  This  appears  clearly  to  be  a  homosexual  fellatio  fantasy, 
the  reverberation  of  which  appeared  in  Swift's  own  life  in  his  sick- 
ness from  "too  much  stone  fruit"  at  a  time  when  he  was  first 
drawn  to  Sir  William  Temple. 

Two  other  assaults  were  made  on  the  helpless  Gulliver  by  evil 


Jonathan  Swift  133 

male  creatures,  in  this  same  period:  one  by  a  deformed  dwarf 
encountered  in  the  Queen's  garden  and  unwittingly  insulted  by 
Gulliver,  who  naively  commented  on  his  bodily  distortion.  The 
dwarf  in  revenge  shook  the  apple  tree  under  which  Gulliver  sat 
so  that  the  enormous  fruit  knocked  him  flat  as  he  was  stooping 
over.  Another  time,  a  huge  frog  hopped  into  Gulliver's  little  boat 
as  he  was  navigating  it  in  his  trough,  and  hopping  back  and  forth 
over  him,  deposited  its  odious  slime  upon  his  face  and  clothing. 
The  largeness  of  the  frog's  features  made  it  appear  the  most  de- 
formed animal  that  could  be  conceived.  Gulliver  finally  fought 
with  this  ugly  creature  and  succeeded  in  ridding  himself  of  it. 
Gulliver  himself  was  not  without  responsibility  for  some  of  his 
animal  encounters  in  this  period,  especially  those  with  birds.  On 
one  occasion  he  grabbed  a  swan-sized  linnet  by  the  neck  with 
both  his  hands.  The  enraged  bird  beat  him  around  the  head  with 
its  wings,  but  was  subdued  with  the  help  of  one  of  the  Queen's 
servants  and  subsequently  served  for  dinner.  All  these  adventures 
are  suggestive  of  further  homosexual  fantasies  and  possible  inci- 
dents, first  involving  a  confusion  of  breast  and  phallus,  and  later 
taking  on  other  configurations  of  contact. 

This  study  of  Swift  was  stimulated  by  an  interest  in  fetishism 
and  the  part  played  in  its  development  by  sensations  of  instability 
of  body  size.  It  is  pertinent  then  to  make  some  brief  further  ref- 
erences to  these  questions  here.  There  is  no  indication  that  Swift 
was  an  overt  fetishist,  although  he  shares  much  in  the  structure 
of  his  personality  with  those  who  develop  the  manifest  symptom. 
The  anal  fixation  was  intense  and  binding,  and  the  genital  response 
so  impaired  and  limited  at  best,  that  he  was  predisposed  to  later 
weakness.  A  retreat- from  genital  sexuality  did  actually  occur  in 
his  early  adult  life,  probably  beginning  with  the  unhappy  relation- 
ship to  Jane  Waring,  the  first  of  the  goddesses.  After  this  he  never 
again  seemed  willingly  to  consider  marriage,  while  his  expressed 
demands  were  that  the  women  who  were  closest  to  him  should  be 
as  much  like  boys  as  possible.  His  genital  demands  were  probably 
partly  sublimated  through  his  creative  writings,  but  even  these 
showed  the  stamp  of  his  strong  anal  character.  He  did  not  need  a 
fetish  because  he  resigned  from  physical  genitality.  In  a  sense,  his 


134  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

converting  of  the  women  of  his  choice  into  boys  fulfilled  a  fetish- 
istic  need.  Especially  Stella  was  to  be  the  faithful,  dependable,  un- 
changing bisexualized  object,  a  cornerstone  for  his  life.  With  her 
death  he  began  to  go  to  pieces. 

Lemuel  Gulliver  went  a  step  further  than  his  creator  in  that 
he  was  a  married  man,  who  was  however  continually  escaping 
from  his  marriage  which  was  so  predominantly  disgusting  to  him, 
though  his  periodic  sojourns  at  home  sufficed  sometimes  for  the 
depositing  of  a  child  with  his  wife.  From  his  descriptions,  how- 
ever, this  hardly  seemed  an  act  of  love  or  even  of  mutual  interest. 
The  Travels  appear  as  the  acting  out  of  Lemuel's  masturbatory 
fantasies,  which,  like  the  character  of  Swift,  are  closely  interwoven 
with  anal  preoccupations  and  ambitions  rather  than  with  genital 
ones. 

The  problem  of  changes  in  body  size  (expressed  as  fact  in  the 
Travels  rather  than  merely  as  sensations)  based  on  phallic  func- 
tioning are  reflected  characteristically  onto  the  total  body,13  much 
reinforced  by  observations  of  pregnancy,  and  especially  by  the 
theme  of  reversal  of  the  generations  which  is  very  strong.  There 
is  less  substitution  of  other  body  parts  for  the  phallus  than  is  to 
be  seen  in  Alice's  Adventures  in  Wonderland,  although  there  are 
some  disguised  references  in  the  Third  Voyage,  in  which  the  phallic 
problems  are  expressed  in  the  medium  of  thought  rather  than  in 
that  of  the  body  itself. 


1  The  Family  Romance  is  a  term  used  for  the  frequent  childhood  fantasy 
that  the  child  is  not  born  of  his  own  parents,  but  has  been  adopted,  and  is 
really  a  waif  or  kidnapped  baby,  whether  of  high  or  low  origin. 

2  Jane  Swift  suffered  from  progressive  deafness  also  and  during  her  later 
years  was  almost  totally  deaf. 

3  In  one  of  his  letters  to  Charles  Ford,  Swift  complained  bitterly  of  hemor- 
rhoids, but  in  general  he  was  personally  reticent  about  the  state  of  his 
bowels  in  contrast  to  his  complaints  of  other  bodily  infirmities. 

4  For  a  few  examples,  see  A  Pastoral  Dialogue,  The  Lady's  Dressing 
Room,  A  Beautiful  Young  Nymph  Going  to  Bed,  Strephon  and  Chloe,  and 
others. 

5  Probably  a  reference  to  impotence — both  genital  and  auditory.  I.  F. 
Grant-Duff  points  out  the  connection  between  the  ears  and  the  genitals  in  a 
passage  in  A  Tale  of  a  Tub — "if  there  be  a  protuberancy  of  parts  in  the 
superior  region  of  the  body,  as  in  the  ears  and  nose,  there  must  be  a  parity 


Jonathan  Swift  135 

also  in  the  inferior;  and  therefore  in  that  truly  pious  age,  the  males  in  every 
assembly — appeared  very  forward  in  exposing  their  ears  to  view,  and  the 
regions  about  them,  because  Hyppocrates  tells  us  that  when  the  vein  behind 
the  ear  happens  to  be  cut  a  man  becomes  a  eunuch;  and  the  females  were 
nothing  backwarder  in  beholding  and  edifying  by  them." 

That  almost  any  part  of  the  body  might  temporarily  become  phallicized 
is  apparent  in  other  passages  of  the  satire. 

6  A  further  possible  determinant  of  this  will  be  suggested  in  the  recon- 
struction of  the  Whitehaven  period  of  Swift's  childhood. 

7  Since  he  further  attempted  to  make  some  substitution  of  Sir  William 
Temple  for  his  lost  father,  only  to  come  to  bitterness,  it  is  possible  that  this 
temple  of  Gulliver's  is  an  unconscious  reference  to  this.  Not  only  had  Swift 
"killed"  his  father  by  his  birth,  but  Temple's  son  had  committed  suicide — 
i.e.,  murdered  himself. 

8  Masturprate  and  masturprator  appear  as  early  forms  of  the  word,  of  un- 
certain derivation.  Masturbation  appears  in  the  title  of  a  book  by  Hume  in 
1766. 

9  Professor  Marjorie  Nicolson  has  given  us  a  most  interesting  picture  of 
the  scientific  background  of  these  constructions,  and  states,  "This  was  no 
haphazard  or  fortuitous  piece  of  fancy;  the  constructive  and  rational  mind 
of  Swift  never  worked  more  coolly  than  during  its  composition."  The  utiliza- 
tion of  those  current  scientific  fantasies  of  Swift's  day  seems  to  us  absolutely 
in  keeping  with  elaborated  masturbation  fantasies,  which  may  occur  de- 
tached from  masturbation  or  with  the  peculiarly  prolonged  and  sometimes 
incomplete  masturbation  of  the  latency  period  in  children  who  have  espe- 
cially little  resolution  of  the  Oedipus  complex.  The  child,  in  the  latency 
period,  is  especially  involved  with  understanding  the  mechanics  of  the  world 
around  him,  and  when  this  is  combined  with  his  unresolved  masturbation 
urges,  the  fantasies  of  the  mechanics  of  the  body  are  combined  with  un- 
usual intensity  with  similar  ones  regarding  external  objects  and  surround- 
ings. Such  thinking  may  last  throughout  life  and  is  sometimes  valuably  pro- 
ductive. That  Swift  saw  the  dangers  of  these  ruminations  limited  to  mas- 
turbatory  states  is  obvious  from  his  descriptions  of  the  Laputans. 

10  For  discussion  of  the  "little  language,"  see  Ehrenpreis. 

11  Cf.  Prince  and  the  Pauper  and  H.M.S.  Pinafore. 

12  It  is  not  clear  whether  the  supposition  that  Jane  Waring  was  the  sister 
of  Swift's  roommate  at  Trinity  (which  is  stated  as  a  fact  in  the  earlier  biog- 
raphies), was  due  to  the  assumption  of  the  biographers  or  to  Swift's  refer- 
ring to  her  in  this  way.  Examination  of  the  accounts  of  the  Waring  family 
indicate  that  she  was  probably  a  cousin. 

13  This  was  especially  emphasized  in  Ferenczi's  early  article  on  the  "Gulli- 
ver Fantasies." 


Erich  Fromm 


Franz  Kafka 


An  outstanding  example  of  a  work  of  art 
written  in  symbolic  language  is  Kafka's  The  Trial.  As  in  so  many 
dreams,  events  are  presented,  each  of  which  is  in  itself  concrete 
and  realistic;  yet  the  whole  is  impossible  and  fantastic.  The  novel, 
in  order  to  be  understood,  must  be  read  as  if  we  listened  to  a 
dream — a  long  complicated  dream  in  which  external  events  hap- 
pen in  space  and  time,  being  representations  of  thoughts  and  feel- 
ings within  the  dreamer,  in  this  case  the  novel's  hero,  K. 

The  novel  begins  with  a  somewhat  startling  sentence:  "Some- 
one must  have  been  telling  lies  about  Joseph  K.,  for  without  having 
done  anything  wrong  he  was  arrested  one  fine  morning."  x 

K.,  we  might  say,  begins  the  dream  with  an  awareness  that  he 
is  "arrested."  What  does  "arrested"  mean?  It  is  an  interesting 
word  which  has  a  double  meaning.  To  be  arrested  can  mean  to 
be  taken  into  custody  by  police  officers  and  to  be  arrested  can 
mean  to  be  stopped  in  one's  growth  and  development.  An  accused 
man  is-'^arrested"  by  the  police,  and  aiTorganism  is  "arrested"  in 
its  normal  development.  The  manifest^  story  uses  "arrested"  in 
the  former  sense.  Its  symbolic  meaning, L  however,  isjobe  under- 
136 


Franz  Kafka  137 

stood  in  the  latter.  K.  has  an  awareness  Jhat  he  is  arrested  and 
blocked  ifThls  own  development 

— frr~a  masterful  little  paragraph,  Kafka  explains  why  K.  was 
arrested.  This  is  how  K.  spent  his  life:  "That  spring  K.  had  been 
accustomed  to  pass  his  evenings  in  this  way:  after  work  whenever 
possible — he  was  usually  in  his  office  until  nine — he  would  take 
a  short  walk,  alone  or  with  some  of  his  colleagues,  and  then  go 
to  a  beer  hall,  where  until  eleven  he  sat  at  a  table  patronized 
mostly  by  elderly  men.  But  there  were  exceptions  to  this  routine, 
when,  for  instance,  the  Manager  of  the  Bank,  who  highly  valued 
his  diligence  and  reliability,  invited  him  for  a  drive  or  for  dinner 
at  his  villa.  And  once  a  week  K.  visited  a  girl  called  Elsa,  who 
was  on  duty  all  night  till  early  morning  as  a  waitress  in  a  cabaret 
and  during  the  day  received  her  visitors  in  bed." 

It  was  an  empty,  routinized  life,  sterile,  without  love  and  with- 
out productiveness.  Indeed,  he  was  arrested,  and  he  heard  the 
voice  of  his  conscience  tell  him  of  his  arrest  and  of  the  danger 
that  threatened  his  personality. 

The  second  sentence  tells  us  that  "his  landlady's  cook,  who 
always  brought  him  his  breakfast  at  eight  o'clock,  failed  to  appear 
on  this  occasion.  That  had  never  happened  before."  This  detail 
seems  unimportant.  In  fact,  it  is  somewhat  incongruous  that  after 
the  startling  news  of  his  arrest  such  a  trivial  detail  as  his  breakfast 
not  having  come  should  be  mentioned;  but,  as  in  so  many  dreams, 
this  seemingly  insignificant  detail  contains  important  information 
about  K.'s  character.  K.  was  a  man  with  a  "receptive  orientation." 
All  his  strivings  went  in  the  direction  of  wanting  to  receive  from 
others — never  to  give  or  to  produce.2 

He  was  dependent  on  others,  who  should  feed  him,  take  care 
of  him,  and  protect  him.  He  was  still  a  child  dependent  on  his 
mother — expecting  everything  from  her  help,  using  her  and  manip- 
ulating her.  As  is  characteristic  of  people  of  this  orientation,  his 
main  concern  was  to  be  pleasant  and  nice  so  that  people,  and  in 
particular  women,  would  give  him  what  he  needed;  and  his  greatest 
fear  was  that  people  might  become  angry  and  withhold  their  gifts. 
The  source  of  all  good  was  believed  to  be  outside,  and  the  prob- 
lem of  living  was  to  avoid  the  risk  of  losing  the  good  graces  of 


138  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

this  source.  The  result  is  an  absence  of  the  feeling  of  his  own 
strength  and  intense  fear  of  being  threatened  with  desertion  by 
the  person  or  persons  whom  he  is  dependent  upon. 

K.  did  not  know  who  accused  him  or  what  he  was  accused  of. 
He  asked:  "Who  could  these  men  be?  What  were  they  talking 
about?  What  authority  could  they  represent?"  A  little  later,  when 
he  talked  with  the  "Inspector,"  a  man  higher  up  in  the  hierarchy 
of  the  court,  the  voice  became  somewhat  more  articulate.  K.  asked 
him  all  sorts  of  questions  having  nothing  to  do  with  the  main 
question  of  what  he  was  accused  of,  and  in  answering  him  the 
Inspector  made  a  statement  which  contained  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant insights  that  could  be  given  K.  at  that  point — and  for  that 
matter  to  anyone  who  is  troubled  and  seeks  help.  The  Inspector 
said,  "However,  if  I  can't  answer  your  questions,  I  can  at  least 
give  you  a  piece  of  advice;  think  less  about  us  and  of  what  is  to 
happen  to  you,  think  more  about  yourself  instead."  K.  did  not 
understand  the  Inspector's  meaning.  He  did  not  see  that  the  prob- 
lem was  within  himself,  that  he  was  the  only  one  who  could  save 
him,  and  the  fact  that  he  could  not  accept  the  Inspector's  advice 
indicated  his  ultimate  defeat. 

This  first  scene  of  the  story  closes  with  another  statement  by 
the  Inspector  which  throws  a  great  deal  of  light  on  the  nature 
of  the  accusation  and  of  the  arrest.  "You'll  be  going  to  the  Bank 
now,  I  suppose?"  "To  the  Bank?"  asked  K.  "I  thought  I  was 
under  arrest?  .  .  .  How  can  I  go  to  the  Bank,  if  I  am  under 
arrest?"  "Ah,  I  see,"  said  the  Inspector,  who  had  already  reached 
the  door.  "You  have  misunderstood  me.  You  are  under  arrest, 
certainly,  but  that  need  not  hinder  you  from  going  about  your 
business.  You  won't  be  hampered  in  carrying  on  the  ordinary 
course  of  your  life."  "Then  being  arrested  isn't  so  very  bad,"  said 
K.,  going  up  to  the  Inspector.  "I  never  suggested  that  it  was," 
said  the  Inspector.  "But  in  that  case  it  would  seem  there  was  no 
particular  necessity  to  tell  me  about  it,"  said  K.,  moving  still 
closer. 

Realistically,  this  could  hardly  happen.  If  a  man  is  arrested, 
he  is  not  permitted  to  continue  his  business  life  as  usual  nor  in 
fact,  as  we  see  later,  any  of  his  other  ordinary  activities.  This 


Franz  Kafka  139 

strange  arrangement  expressed  symbolically  that  his  business  activ- 
ities and  everything  else  he  did  were  of  such  a  nature  as  not  really 
to  be  touched  by  his  arrest  as  a  human  being.  Humanely  speaking, 
he  was  almost  dead,  but  he  could  continue  his  life  as  a  bank 
official  just  the  same,  because  this  activity  was  completely  sepa- 
rated from  his  existence  as  a  human  being. 

K^had  a  vague  awareness  that  he  was  wasting  his  life  and 
rotting^away fast. "From  here  on,  the  wfioTe  novel  deals  with  his 
reaction  to  this  awareness  and  with  the  efforts  he  makes  to  de- 
fend and  to  save  himself.  The  outcome  was  tragic;  although  he 
heard  the  voice  of  his  conscience,  he  did  not  understand  it.  Jfos 
stead  of  trying  to  understand  the  real  reason  for  his  arrest,  he 
tefided  to  escape  from  any  such  awareness.  Instead  of  helping 
himself  in  the  only  way  he  could  help  himself — by  recognizing 
the  truth  and  trying  to  change — he  sought  help  where  it  could 
not  be  found — on  the  outside,  from  others,  from  clever  lawyers, 
from  women  whose  "connections"  he  could  use,  always  protest- 
ing his  innocence  and  silencing  the  voice  that  told  him  he  was 
guilty. 

Perhaps  he  could  have  found  a  solution  had  it  not  been  for 
the  fact  that  his  moral  sense  was  confused.  He  knew  only  one 
kind  of  moral  law:  the  strict  authority  whose  basic  commandment 
was  "You  must  obey."  He  knew  only  the  "authoritarian  con- 
science," to  which  obedience  is  the  greatest  virtue  and  disobedi- 
ence the  greatest  crime.  He  hardly  knew  that  there  was  another 
kind  of  conscience — the  humanistic  conscience — which  is  our  own 
voice  calling  us  back  to  ourselves.3 

In  the  novel,  both  kinds  of  conscience  are  represented  sym- 
bolically: the  humanistic  conscience  by  the  Inspector  and  later  by 
the  Priest;  the  authoritarian  conscience  by  the  court,  the  judges, 
the  assistants,  the  crooked  lawyers,  and  all  others  connected  with 
the  case.  K.'s  tragic  mistake  was  that,  although  he  heard  the  voice 
of  his  humanistic  conscience,  he  mistook  it  for  the  voice  of  the 
authoritarian  conscience  and  defended  himself  against  the  accus- 
ing authorities,  partly  by  submission  and  partly  by  rebellion,  when 
he  should  have  fought  for  himself  in  the  name  of  his  humanistic 
conscience. 


140  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

The  "court"  is  described  as  despotic,  corrupt  and  filthy;  its  pro- 
cedure not  based  on  reason  or  justice.  The  kind  of  lawbooks  the 
judges  used  (shown  him  by  the  wife  of  an  attendant)  were  a  sym- 
bolic expression  of  this  corruption.  They  were  old  dog-eared  vol- 
umes, the  cover  of  one  was  almost  completely  split  down  the 
middle,  the  two  halves  were  held  together  by  mere  threads.  "How 
dirty  everything  is  here!"  said  K.,  shaking  his  head,  and  the 
woman  had  to  wipe  away  the  worst  of  the  dust  with  her  apron 
before  K.  would  put  out  his  hand  to  touch  the  books.  He  opened 
the  first  of  them  and  found  an  indecent  picture.  A  man  and  a 
woman  were  sitting  naked  on  a  sofa,  the  obscene  intention  of  the 
draftsman  was  evident  enough,  yet  his  skill  was  so  small  that  noth- 
ing emerged  from  the  picture  save  the  all-too-solid  figures  of  a 
man  and  a  woman  sitting  rigidly  upright  and,  because  of  the  bad 
perspective,  apparently  finding  the  utmost  difficulty  even  in  turn- 
ing toward  each  other.  K.  did  not  look  at  any  of  the  other  pages, 
but  merely  glanced  at  the  title  page  of  the  second  book.  It  was  a 
novel  entitled,  How  Grete  Was  Plagued  by  Her  Husband  Hans. 
"These  are  the  lawbooks  that  are  studied  here,"  said  K.  "These 
are  the  men  who  are  supposed  to  sit  in  judgment  on  me." 

Another  expression  of  the  same  corruption  was  that  the  attend- 
ant's wife  was  used  sexually  by  one  of  the  judges  and  one  of  the 
law  students  and  that  neither  she  nor  her  husband  was  permitted 
to  protest.  There  is  an  element  of  rebelliousness  in  K.'s  attitude 
toward  the  Court  and  a  deep  sympathy  in  the  Law-Court  Attend- 
ant who,  after  having  given  K.  "a  confidential  look  such  as  he  had 
not  yet  ventured  in  spite  of  all  his  friendliness,"  said,  "A  man  can't 
help  being  rebellious."  But  the  rebelliousness  alternated  with  sub- 
mission. It  never  dawned  upon  K.  that  the  moral  law  is  not  rep- 
resented by.  tEeTIuthl3TJtaTiair^oun_but  by  nisHowiTlxmscience. 

To  say  that  this  idea  never  dawnsupoiT  him  Tffould  not  be 
quite  correct.  Once  toward  the  end  of  his  journey  he  came  as 
close  to  the  truth  as  he  ever  did.  He  heard  the  voice  of  his  human- 
istic conscience  represented  by  the  priest  in  the  Cathedral.  He 
had  gone  to  the  Cathedral  to  meet  a  business  acquaintance  to 
whom  he  was  to  show  the  city,  but  this  man  had  not  kept  the 
appointment  and  K.  found  himself  alone  in  the  Cathedral,  a  little 


Franz  Kafka  141 

forlorn  and  puzzled  until  suddenly  an  unambiguous  and  inescapa- 
ble voice  cried:  "Joseph  K.!" 

K.  started  and  stared  at  the  ground  before  him.  For  the  mo- 
ment he  was  still  free,  he  could  continue  on  his  way  and  vanish 
through  one  of  the  small  dark  wooden  doors  that  faced  him  at  no 
great  distance.  It  would  simply  indicate  that  he  had  not  under- 
stood the  call,  or  that  he  had  understood  it  and  did  not  care.  But 
if  he  were  to  turn  round  he  would  be  caught,  for  that  would 
amount  to  an  admission  that  he  had  understood  it  very  well,  that 
he  was  really  the  person  addressed,  and  that  he  was  ready  to 
obey.  Had  the  priest  called  his  name  a  second  time  K.  would  cer- 
tainly have  gone  on,  but  since  there  was  a  persistent  silence, 
though  he  stood  waiting  a  long  time,  he  could  not  help  turning 
his  head  a  little  just  to  see  what  the  priest  was  doing.  The  priest 
was  standing  calmly  in  the  pulpit  as  before,  yet  it  was  obvious 
that  he  had  observed  K.'s  turn  of  the  head.  It  would  have  been 
like  a  childish  game  of  hide-and-seek  if  K.  had  not  turned  right 
round  to  face  him.  He  did  so,  and  the  priest  beckoned  him  to 
come  nearer.  Since  there  was  now  no  need  for  evasion,  K.  hur- 
ried back — he  was  both  curious  and  eager  to  shorten  the  inter- 
view— with  long  flying  strides  toward  the  pulpit.  At  the  first  rows 
of  seats  he  halted,  but  the  priest  seemed  to  think  the  distance  still 
too  great,  he  stretched  out  an  arm  and  pointed  with  sharply  bent 
forefinger  to  a  spot  immediately  before  the  pulpit.  K.  followed 
this  direction  too;  when  he  stood  on  the  spot  indicated  he  had  to 
bend  his  head  far  back  to  see  the  priest  at  all.  "You  are  Joseph 
K.,"  said  the  priest,  lifting  one  hand  from  the  balustrade  in  a 
vague  gesture.  "Yes,"  said  K.,  thinking  how  frankly  he  used  to 
give  his  name  and  what  a  burden  it  had  recently  become  to  him; 
nowadays  people  he  had  never  seen  before  seemed  to  know  his 
name.  How  pleasant  it  was  to  have  to  introduce  oneself  before 
being  recognized!  "You  are  an  accused  man,"  said  the  priest  in 
a  very  low  voice.  "Yes,"  said  K.  "So  I  have  been  informed." 
"Then  you  are  the  man  I  seek,"  said  the  priest.  "I  am  the  prison 
chaplain."  "Indeed,"  said  K.  "I  had  you  summoned  here,"  said 
the  priest,  "to  have  a  talk  with  you."  "I  didn't  know  that,"  said 
K.  "I  came  here  to  show  an  Italian  round  the  Cathedral."  "A 
mere  detail,"  said  the  priest.  "What  is  that  in  your  hand?  Is  it  a 
prayer  book?"  "No,"  replied  K.,  "it  is  an  album  of  sights  worth 
seeing  in  the  town."  "Lay  it  down,"  said  the  priest.  K.  pitched  it 
away  so  violently  that  it  flew  open  and  slid  some  way  along  the 
floor  with  disheveled  leaves.  "Do  you  know  that  your  case  is  go- 
ing badly?"  asked  the  priest.  "I  have  that  idea  myself,"  said  K. 


142  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

"I've  done  what  I  could,  but  without  any  success  so  far.  Of 
course,  my  first  petition  hasn't  been  presented  yet."  "How  do  you 
think  it  will  end?"  asked  the  priest.  "At  first  I  thought  it  must 
tarn  out  well,"  said  K.,  "but  now  I  frequently  have  my  doubts. 
I  don't  know  how  it  will  end.  Do  you?"  "No,"  said  the  priest, 
"but  I  fear  it  will  end  badly.  You  are  held  to  be  guilty.  Your  case 
will  perhaps  never  get  beyond  a  lower  Court.  Your  guilt  is  sup- 
posed, for  the  present,  at  least,  to  have  been  proved."  "But  I  am 
not  guilty,"  said  K.;  "It's  a  misunderstanding.  And,  if  it  comes  to 
that,  how  can  any  man  be  called  guilty?  We  are  all  simply  men 
here,  one  as  much  as  the  other."  "That  is  true,"  said  the  priest, 
"but  that's  how  all  guilty  men  talk."  "Are  you  prejudiced  against 
me  too?"  asked  K.  "I  have  no  prejudices  against  you,"  said  the 
priest.  "I  thank  you,"  said  K.;  "but  all  the  others  who  are  con- 
cerned in  these  proceedings  are  prejudiced  against  me.  They  are 
influencing  even  outsiders.  My  position  is  becoming  more  and 
more  difficult."  "You  are  misinterpreting  the  facts  of  the  case," 
said  the  priest.  "The  verdict  is  not  so  suddenly  arrived  at,  the  pro- 
ceedings only  gradually  merge  into  the  verdict."  "So  that's  how 
it  is,"  said  K.,  letting  his  head  sink.  "What  is  the  next  step  you 
propose  to  take  in  the  matter?"  asked  the  priest.  "I'm  going  to  get 
more  help,"  said  K.,  looking  up  again  to  see  how  the  priest  took 
this  statement.  "There  are  several  possibilities  I  haven't  explored 
yet."  "You  cast  about  too  much  for  outside  help,"  said  the  priest 
disapprovingly,  "especially  from  women.  Don't  you  see  that  it 
isn't  the  right  kind  of  help?"  "In  some  cases,  even  in  many,  I 
could  agree  with  you,"  said  K.,  "but  not  always.  Women  have 
great  influence.  If  I  could  move  some  women  I  know  to  join 
forces  in  working  for  me,  I  couldn't  help  winning  through.  Espe- 
cially before  this  Court,  which  consists  almost  entirely  of  petti- 
coat-hunters. Let  the  Examining  Magistrate  see  a  woman  in  the 
distance  and  he  almost  knocks  down  his  desk  and  the  defendant 
in  his  eagerness  to  get  at  her."  The  priest  drooped  over  the  balus- 
trade, apparently  feeling  for  the  first  time  the  oppressiveness  of 
the  canopy  above  his  head.  What  could  have  happened  to  the 
weather  outside?  There  was  no  longer  even  a  murky  daylight; 
black  night  had  set  in.  All  the  stained  glass  in  the  great  window 
could  not  illumine  the  darkness  of  the  wall  with  one  solitary  glim- 
mer of  light.  And  at  this  very  moment  the  verger  began  to  put 
out  the  candles  on  the  high  altar,  one  after  another.  "Are  you 
angry  with  me?"  asked  K.  of  the  priest.  "It  may  be  that  you 
don't  know  the  nature  of  the  Court  you  are  serving."  He  got  no 
answer.  "These  are  only  my  personal  experiences,"  said  K.  There 
was  still  no  answer  from  above.  "I  wasn't  trying  to  insult  you," 


Franz  Kafka  143 

said  K.  And  at  that  the  priest  shrieked  from  the  pulpit!  "Can't 
you  see  anything  at  all?"  It  was  an  angry  cry,  but  at  the  same 
time  sounded  like  the  involuntary  shriek  of  one  who  sees  an- 
other fall  and  is  startled  out  of  himself. 

The  priest  knew  what  the  real  accusation  against  K.  was,  and 
he  also  knew  that  his  case  would  end  badly.  At  this  point  K.  had 
a  chance  to  look  into  himself  and  to  ask  what  the  real  accusation 
was,  but,  consistent  with  his  previous  orientation,  he  was  inter- 
ested only  in  finding  out  where  he  could  get  more  help.  When 
the  priest  said  disapprovingly  that  he  casts  about  too  much  for 
outside  help,  K.'s  only  response  was  fear  that  the  priest  was  angry. 
Now  the  priest  became  really  angry,  but  it  was  the  anger  of  love 
felt  by  a  man  who  saw  another  fall,  knowing  he  could  help  him- 
self but  could  not  be  helped.  There  was  not  much  more  the  priest 
could  tell  him.  When  K.  moved  in  the  direction  of  the  doorway, 
the  priest  asked,  "Do  you  want  to  leave  already?"  Although  at 
that  moment  K.  had  not  been  thinking  of  leaving,  he  answered  at 
once,  "Of  course,  I  must  go.  I'm  the  assistant  manager  of  a  Bank, 
they're  waiting  for  me.  I  only  came  here  to  show  a  business  friend 
from  abroad  round  the  Cathedral."  "Well,"  said  the  priest,  reach- 
ing out  his  hand  to  K.,  "then  go."  "But  I  can't  find  my  way  out 
alone  in  this  darkness,"  said  K. 

K.'s  was  indeed  the  tragic  dilemma  of  the  person  who  could  not 
find  his  way  alone  in  the  darkness  and  who  insisted  that  only 
others  could  guide  him.  He  sought  help  but  he  rejected  the  only 
help  the  priest  could  offer  him.  Out  of  his  own  dilemma  he  could 
not  understand  the  priest.  He  asked,  "Don't  you  want  anything 
more  to  do  with  me?"  "No,"  said  the  priest.  "You  were  so  friendly 
to  me  for  a  time,"  said  K.,  "and  explained  so  much  to  me,  and 
now  you  let  me  go  as  if  you  cared  nothing  about  me."  "But  you 
have  to  leave  now,"  said  the  priest.  "Well,  yes,"  said  K.,  "you 
must  see  that  I  can't  help  it."  "You  must  first  see  that  I  can't  help 
being  what  I  am,"  said  the  priest.  "You  are  the  prison  chaplain," 
said  K.,  groping  his  way  nearer  to  the  priest  again;  his  immediate 
return  to  the  Bank  was  not  so  necessary  as  he  had  made  out;  he 
could  quite  well  stay  longer.  "That  means  I  belong  to  the  Court," 
said  the  priest.  "So  why  should  I  make  any  claims  upon  you? 


144  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

The  Court  makes  no  claims  upon  you.  It  receives  you  when  you 
come,  and  it  relinquishes  you  when  you  go." 

The  priest  made  it  quite  clear  that  his  attitude  was  the  oppo- 
site of  authoritarianism.  While  he  wanted  to  help  K.  out  of  love 
for  his  fellow  men,  he  himself  had  no  stake  in  the  outcome  of 
K.'s  case.  K.'s  problem,  in  the  priest's  view,  was  entirely  his  own. 
If  he  refused  to.  sjee^^njm^t_remain  blind — because  no  one  sees 
thetruirTeTcegtJby  himself.        ^ — - — —     "" 

~WKaTIs  so  com using~ln~the~nb vel  is  the  fact  that  it  is  never  said 
that  the  moral  law  represented  by  the  priest  and  the  law  repre- 
sented by  the  court  are  different.  On  the  contrary,  in  the  manifest 
story  the  priest,  being  the  prison  chaplain,  is  part  of  the  court  sys- 
tem. But  this  confusion  in  the  story  symbolizes  the  confusion  in 
K.'s  own  heart.  To  him  the  two  are  one,  and  just  because  he  is 
not  able  to  distinguish  between  them,  he  remains  caught  in  the 
battle  with  the  authoritarian  conscience  and  cannot  understand 
himself. 

One  year  elapsed  after  K.  had  the  first  inkling  of  his  arrest. 
It  was  now  the  evening  before  his  thirty-first  birthday  and  his  case 
had  been  lost.  Two  men  came  to  fetch  him  for  the  execution.  In 
spite  of  his  frantic  efforts,  he  had  failed  to  ask  the  right  question. 
He  had  not  found  out  what  he  was  accused  of,  who  accused  him, 
and  what  was  the  way  to  save  himself. 

The  story  ends,  as  so  many  dreams  do,  in  a  violent  nightmare. 
But  while  the  executioners  went  through  the  grotesque  formali- 
ties of  preparing  their  knives,  K.  had  for  the  first  time  an  insight 
into  his  own  problem.  "I  always  wanted  to  snatch  at  the  world 
with  twenty  hands,  and  not  for  a  very  laudable  motive,  either. 
That  was  wrong,  and  am  I  to  show  now  that  not  even  a  whole 
year's  struggling  with  my  case  has  taught  me  anything?  Am  I  to 
leave  this  world  as  a  man  who  shies  away  from  all  conclusions? 
Are  people  to  say  of  me  after  I  am  gone  that  at  the  beginning  of 
my  case  I  wanted  it  to  finish,  and  at  the  end  of  it  wanted  it  to 
begin  again?  I  don't  want  that  to  be  said." 

For  the  first  time  K.  was  aware  of  his  greediness  and  of  the 
sterility  of  his  life.  For  the  first  time  he  could  see  the  possibility 
of  friendship  and  human  solidarity: 


Franz  Kafka  145 

His  glance  fell  on  the  top  story  of  the  house  adjoining  the 
quarry.  With  a  flicker  as  of  a  light  going  up,  the  casements  of  a 
window  there  suddenly  flew  open;  a  human  figure,  faint  and  in- 
substantial at  that  distance  and  that  height,  leaned  abruptly  far 
forward  and  stretched  both  arms  still  farther.  Who  was  it?  A 
friend?  A  good  man?  Someone  who  sympathized?  Someone  who 
wanted  to  help?  Was  it  one  person  only?  Or  were  they  all  there? 
Was  help  at  hand?  Were  there  some  arguments  in  his  favor  that 
had  been  overlooked?  Of  course  there  must  be.  Logic  is  doubt- 
less unshakable,  but  it  cannot  withstand  a  man  who  wants  to  go 
on  living.  Where  was  the  Judge  whom  he  had  never  seen?  Where 
was  the  High  Court,  to  which  he  had  never  penetrated?  He  raised 
his  hands  and  spread  out  all  his  fingers. 

While  all  his  life  K.  had  been  trying  to  find  the  answers,  or 
rather  to  be  given  answers  by  others,  at  this  moment  he  asked 
questions  and  the  right  questions.  It  was  only  the  terror  of  dying 
that  gave  him  the  power  to  visualize  the  possibility  of  love  and 
friendship  and,  paradoxically,  at  the  moment  of  dying  he  had,  for 
the  first  time,  faith  in  life. 


xThis  and  all  subsequent  quotations  are  from  Franz  Kafka,  The  Trial, 
(New  York,  1931). 

2  Cf .  the  description  of  the  receptive  orientation  in  the  author's  Man  for 
Himself. 

3  Cf .  the  chapter  on  humanistic  and  authoritarian  conscience  in  Man  for 
Himself. 


Ernest  Jones 


The  Death  of  Hamlet's  Father 


When  a  poet  takes  an  old  theme  from  which  to 
create  a  work  of  art  it  is  always  interesting,  and  often  instructive, 
to  note  the  respects  in  which  he  changes  elements  in  the  story. 
Much  of  what  we  glean  of  Shakespeare's  personality  is  derived 
from  such  studies,  the  direct  biographical  details  being  so  sparse. 
The  difference  in  the  accounts  given  in  Hamlet  of  the  way  the  King 
had  died  from  that  given  in  the  original  story  is  so  striking  that  it 
would  seem  worth-while  to  look  closer  at  the  matter. 

The  most  obvious  difference  is  that  in  the  Saxo-Belleforest  saga 
the  murder  is  a  public  one,  with  Shakespeare  a  secret  one.  We  do 
not  know,  however,  who  made  this  change,  since  an  English  play 
called  Hamlet,  thought  to  be  written  by  Kyd,  was  extant  some 
twelve  years  before  Shakespeare  wrote  his;  and  he  doubtless  used 
it  as  well  as  the  Belleforest  version.  That  play  no  longer  exists  ex- 
cept in  a  much  later  and  much  distorted  German  version,  but  a 
Ghost  probably  appeared  in  it,  and  one  can  hardly  imagine  any 
other  function  for  him  than  to  disclose  a  secret  murder.  There  is 
reason  to  suppose  that  Shakespeare  may  himself  have  had  a  hand 
in  the  Kyd  play,  but  at  all  events  he  made  the  best  possible  use  of 
the  alteration. 
146 


The  Death  of  Hamlets  Father  147 

In  the  old  saga  Claudius  (there  called  Feng)  draws  his  sword  on 
his  brother  the  King  (Horvendil) x  at  a  banquet  and  slays  him 
"with  many  wounds."  He  explains  to  the  assembled  nobles  that 
he  has  done  this  to  protect  his  sister-in-law  (Geruth)  from  ill- 
treatment  and  imminent  peril  of  her  life  at  the  hands  of  her  hus- 
band— a  pretext  evidently  a  reflection  of  the  infant's  sadistic  con- 
ception of  coitus.  Incidentally,  in  the  Saxo  saga  (though  not  with 
Belleforest),  there  had  here  been  no  previous  adultery  with  the 
Queen,  so  that  Feng  is  the  sole  villain,  and  Amleth,  unlike  Hamlet, 
unhesitatingly  kills  him  and  reigns  in  his  stead  as  soon  as  he  can 
overcome  the  external  obstacles.  In  Hamlet,  as  is  well  known,  the 
plot  is  intensified  by  the  previous  incestuous  adultery  of  the  Queen, 
which  convulses  Hamlet  at  least  as  much  as  his  father's  murder 
and  results  in  an  animus  against  women  that  complicates  his  previ- 
ously simple  task. 

In  the  Hamlet  play,  on  the  other  hand,  Claudius  disclaims  all 
responsibility  for  his  brother's  death  and  spreads  a  somewhat  im- 
probable story  of  his  having  been  stung  to  death  by  a  serpent  while 
sleeping  in  an  orchard.  How  he  knew  this  we  are  not  told,  nor  why 
the  adder  possessed  this  quite  unwonted  deadliness.  There  is  much 
to  be  said  about  that  "orchard,"  but  we  may  assume  that  it  sym- 
bolizes the  woman  in  whose  arms  the  king  was  murdered.  The 
Ghost's  version  was  quite  different.  According  to  him,  Claudius 
had  found  him  asleep  and  poured  a  juice  of  hebana  into  his  ears, 
a  still  more  improbable  story  from  a  medical  point  of  view;  he  fur- 
ther tells  us  that  the  poison  rapidly  spread  through  his  system 
resulting  in  "all  his  smooth  body  being  barked  about  most  lazar- 
like  with  vile  and  loathsome  crust."  Presumably  its  swift  action 
prevented  him  from  informing  anyone  of  what  had  befallen  him. 

The  source  of  this  mysterious  poison  has  been  traced  as  follows.2 
Shakespeare  seems  to  have  taken  the  name,  incidentally  misspelling 
it,  from  the  juice  of  "hebon,"  mentioned  in  a  play  of  Marlowe's, 
who  himself  had  added  an  initial  letter  to  the  "ebon"  (ebony)  of 
which  the  walls  of  the  God  of  Sleep  were  composed  (Ovid) .  Shake- 
speare apparently  went  on  to  confound  this  narcotic  with  henbane 
(hyoscyamus),  which  at  that  time  was  believed  to  cause  mortifi- 
cation and  turn  the  body  black.3  Two  interesting  beliefs  connect- 


148  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

ing  henbane  with  the  ear  are  mentioned  by  Pliny:  (1)  that  it  is  a 
remedy  for  earache,  and  (2)  when  poured  into  the  ear  it  causes 
mental  disorder. 

The  coarse  Northern  butchery  is  thus  replaced  by  a  surreptitious 
Italianate  form  of  murder,  a  fact  that  has  led  to  many  inquiries, 
which  do  not  concern  us  here,  concerning  Italian  influence  on 
Shakespeare.  The  identical  method  is  employed  in  the  Play  Scene, 
where  a  nephew  murders  his  uncle,  who  was  resting  after  coitus, 
by  dropping  poison  into  his  ear  and  immediately  afterwards  es- 
pouses the  widow  a  la  Richard  III.  Hamlet  says  he  got  the  Gon- 
zago  story  from  an  Italian  play,  but  no  such  play  has  yet  been 
traced.  But  there  had  been  two  instances  of  murder  in  an  unhappy 
Gonzaga  family.  In  1538  a  famous  Duke  of  Urbino,  who  was  mar- 
ried to  a  Gonzaga,  died  under  somewhat  suspicious  circumstances. 
Poison  was  suspected,  and  his  barber  was  believed  to  have  poured 
a  lotion  into  his  ears  on  a  number  of  occasions.  So  the  story  goes: 
whether  poison  thus  administered  is  lethal  to  anyone  with  intact 
tympani  is  a  matter  we  must  leave  to  the  toxicologists.  At  all  events 
the  Duke's  son  got  the  unfortunate  barber  torn  in  pieces  by  pincers 
and  then  quartered.  In  the  course  of  this  proceeding  the  barber 
asserted  he  had  been  put  on  to  commit  the  foul  deed  by  a  Luigi 4 
Gonzaga,  a  relative  of  the  Duke's  by  marriage.  For  political  and 
legal  reasons,  however,  Luigi  was  never  brought  to  trial.5  Further- 
more, in  1592  the  Marchese  Rudolf  von  Castiglione  got  eight 
bravos  to  murder  his  uncle  the  Marchese  Alfonso  Gonzaga,  a  rela- 
tive of  the  Duke  of  Mantua.  Rudolf  had  wished  to  marry  his  uncle's 
daughter  and  had  been  refused;  he  himself  was  murdered  eight 
months  later. 

The  names  used  make  it  evident  that  Shakespeare  was  familiar 
with  the  story  of  the  earlier  Gonzaga  murder,  as  he  possibly  was 
with  the  later  one  too.  The  "poison  in  the  ear"  story  must  have 
appealed  to  him,  since  he  not  only  used  it  in  the  Gonzago  Play 
Scene — where  it  would  be  appropriate — but  also  in  the  account  of 
Hamlet's  father's  death. 

If  we  translate  them  into  the  language  of  symbolism  the  Ghost's 
story  is  not  so  dissimilar  from  that  of  Claudius.  To  the  unconscious, 
"poison"  signifies  any  bodily  fluid  charged  with  evil  intent,  while 


The  Death  of  Hamlet's  Father  149 

the  serpent  has  played  a  well-known  role  ever  since  the  Garden 
of  Eden.  The  murderous  assault  had  therefore  both  aggressive  and 
erotic  components,  and  we  note  that  it  was  Shakespeare  who  intro- 
duced the  latter  (serpent).  Furthermore,  that  the  ear  is  an  uncon- 
scious equivalent  for  anus  is  a  matter  for  which  I  have  adduced 
ample  evidence  elsewhere.6  So  we  must  call  Claudius'  attack  on 
his  brother  both  a  murderous  aggression  and  a  homosexual  assault. 

Why  did  Shakespeare  give  this  curious  turn  to  a  plain  story  of 
envious  ambition?  The  theme  of  homosexuality  itself  does  not  sur- 
prise us  in  Shakespeare.  In  a  more  or  less  veiled  form  a  pronounced 
feminity  and  a  readiness  to  interchange  the  sexes  are  prominent 
characteristics  of  his  plays,  and  doubtless  of  his  personality  also. 
I  have  argued  7  that  Shakespeare  wrote  Hamlet  as  a  more  or  less 
successful  abreaction  of  the  intolerable  emotions  aroused  by  the 
painful  situation  he  depicts  in  his  Sonnets,  his  betrayal  by  both  his 
beloved  young  noble  and  his  mistress.  In  life  he  apparently  smoth- 
ered his  resentment  and  became  reconciled  to  both  betrayers. 
Artistically  his  response  was  privately  to  write  the  Sonnets  (in  the 
later  publication  of  which  he  had  no  hand)  and  publicly  to  com- 
pose Hamlet  not  long  afterwards,  a  play  gory  enough  to  satisfy  all 
varieties  of  revenge. 

The  episode  raises  again  the  vexed  question  of  the  relation  be- 
tween active  and  passive  homosexuality.  Nonanalysts  who  write  on 
this  topic  are  apt  to  maintain  that  they  represent  two  different  in- 
born types,  but  this  assertion  gives  one  an  unsatisfied  feeling  of 
improbability,  and  analytic  investigation  confirms  these  doubts  by 
demonstrating  numerous  points  of  contact  between  the  two  atti- 
tudes. Certainly  Claudius'  assault  was  active  enough;  sexually  it 
signified  turning  the  victim  into  a  female,  i.e.  castrating  him.  Ham- 
let himself,  as  Freud  8  pointed  out  long  ago,  was  unconsciously 
identified  with  Claudius,  which  was  the  reason  why  he  was  unable 
to  denounce  and  kill  him.  So  the  younger  brother  attacking  the 
older  is  simply  a  replica  of  the  son-father  conflict,  and  the  compli- 
cated poisoning  story  really  represents  the  idea  of  the  son  castrat- 
ing his  father.  But  we  must  not  forget  that  it  is  done  in  an  erotic 
fashion.  Now  Hamlet's  conscious  attitude  toward  his  father  was  a 
feminine  one,  as  shown  by  his  exaggerated  adoration  and  his  ad- 


150  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

juring  Gertrude  to  love  such  a  perfect  hero  instead  of  his  brother. 
In  Freud's  opinion  homosexuality  takes  its  origin  in  narcissism,9 
so  that  it  is  always  a  mirror-love;  Hamlet's  father  would  therefore 
be  his  own  idea  of  himself.  That  is  why,  in  such  cases,  as  with 
Hamlet,  suicide  is  so  close  to  murder. 

My  analytic  experience,  simplified  for  the  present  purpose,  im- 
pels me  to  the  following  reconstruction  of  homosexual  development. 
Together  with  the  narcissism  a  feminine  attitude  toward  the  father 
presents  itself  as  an  attempted  solution  of  the  intolerable  murder- 
ous and  castrating  impulses  aroused  by  jealousy.  These  may  per- 
sist, but  when  the  fear  of  the  self-castration  implied  gains  the  upper 
hand,  i.e.  when  the  masculine  impulse  is  strong,  the  original  ag- 
gression reasserts  itself — but  this  time  under  the  erotic  guise  of 
active  homosexuality. 

According  to  Freud,  Hamlet  was  inhibited  ultimately  by  his 
repressed  hatred  of  his  father.  We  have  to  add  to  this  the  homo- 
sexual aspect  of  his  attitude,  so  that  Love  and  Hate,  as  so  often, 
both  play  their  part. 


1  It  was  Shakespeare  who  changed  this  name  to  Hamlet,  thus  emphasizing 
the  identification  of  son  and  father. 

2  See  Hy.  Bradley,  Modern  Language  Review  (1920),  XV,  85. 

3  W.  Thislton-Dyer,  Shakespeare's  England,  Vol.  I,  p.  509. 

4  From  whom  Shakespeare  perhaps  got  the  name  Lucianus  for  the  mur- 
derer in  the  Play  Scene. 

5  See  G.  Bullough,  "The  Murder  of  Gonzago,"  Modern  Language  Review 
(1935),  XXX,  433. 

6  Essays  in  Applied  Psycho-Analysis  (1923),  pp.  341-6. 

7  Hamlet  and  Oedipus  (1949). 
sDie  Traumdeuting  (1900),  S.  183. 
9  Collected  Papers,  Vol.  II,  p.  241. 


Theodor  Reik 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Mans  Life 


There  is  an  unknown  melody  that  has  been 
haunting  me  now  for  several  days.  It  appears  sometimes  very 
clearly  and  sometimes  only  the  first  bars  are  heard  by  the  inner 
ear  as  a  faint  echo.  It  came  like  an  unannounced  guest  one  has 
once  known,  but  whose  name  one  has  forgotten.  Its  repeated 
emergence  irks  me  now  and  I  try  to  turn  it  away  as  if  the  unrecog- 
nized guest  had  stayed  too  long  and  has  become  wearisome.  If  I 
but  knew  what  that  tune  is!  I  am  searching  in  vain  in  my  memory. 
I  must  have  heard  it  long,  long  ago.  Where  was  it? 

Was  it  not  in  the  Vienna  Opera?  It  occurs  to  me  that  the  melody 
I  do  not  recognize  must  have  something  to  do  with  my  father.  .  .  . 
My  memory  calls  his  image  up  ...  his  face  ...  his  sidewhiskers  .  .  . 
his  beard  was  like  Kaiser  Franz  Josef's  ...  or  rather  like  Jacques 
Offenbach's.  .  .  .  The  image  of  the  composer  emerges  quite  dis- 
tinctly as  if  it  were  a  photograph.  .  .  .  The  penetrating  eyes  and 
the  pince-nez  on  a  ribbon.  .  .  .  And  then  I  know  suddenly  what  the 
melody  is:  the  aria  of  Antonia  from  The  Tales  of  Hoffmann.  As  if 
a  floodgate  had  been  opened,  an  abundance  of  images  emerges. 
When  my  sister  and  I  went  to  the  Vienna  Opera  for  the  first  time 
in  1901, 1  was  13  years  old. 

151 


152  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

We  had  heard  our  father  speak  about  The  Tales  of  Hoffmann 
before.  At  the  first  performance  of  Offenbach's  opera  in  1881  a 
terrible  fire  had  consumed  the  Vienna  Ringtheater.  Many  hun- 
dreds of  people  had  perished;  my  father  had  saved  himself  by 
jumping  from  a  window.  Many  superstitious  persons  in  our  city, 
at  that  time,  had  tried  to  establish  a  connection  between  the  catas- 
trophe and  the  personality  of  the  composer.  They  said  Offenbach 
had  an  "evil  eye"  whose  glances  had  magical  power  to  harm 
people.  They  called  him  a  "jettatore,"  meaning  a  wicked  sorcerer. 
Poor  Offenbach,  whose  picture  we  had  seen  and  in  which  we  had 
discovered  a  likeness  to  our  father,  had  in  fact  not  lived  to  witness 
the  opening  performance  of  his  opera. 

The  Tales  of  Hoffmann  had  not  been  performed  in  Vienna  for  a 
long  time,  in  fact,  not  until  1901.  My  sister  and  I  were  agog  with 
anticipation.  In  those  days,  the  performances  of  the  Opera  were 
a  frequent  subject  of  discussion  in  the  homes  of  the  middle-class 
people  of  musical  Vienna.  We  had  often  heard  the  orchestra  praised 
and  the  individual  singers  evaluated.  Then  there  was  the  new  direc- 
tor whose  artistic  and  creative  zeal  had  revolutionized  the  old 
institution  and  who  had  become  the  subject  of  bitter  contention 
and  ardent  enthusiasm.  Every  one  of  the  performances  which  he 
conducted  aroused  a  storm  of  controversy:  his  lack  of  respect  for 
tradition  which  he  had  once  characterized  as  "sloppiness,"  his 
startling  innovations,  his  musicianship,  and  his  inspired  energy 
which  demanded  perfection  from  himself  and  those  working  with 
him.  His  name,  which  we  heard  spoken  so  often  at  home,  was 
Gustav  Mahler. 

Memories  emerge  of  our  first  night  at  the  Opera  House;  the 
crowded  theater,  the  box  reserved  for  the  Court,  the  tuning  of 
the  instruments.  The  lights  are  out  now;  only  stage  and  orchestra 
are  illuminated.  Hurrying  toward  the  conductor's  stand  we  see  a 
man  of  small  stature  with  the  ascetic  features  of  a  medieval  monk. 
His  eyes  are  flashing  behind  his  glasses.  He  glances,  as  if  in  fury, 
at  the  audience  that  applauds  his  appearance.  He  raises  the  baton 
and  throws  himself,  with  arms  uplifted,  ecstatically  almost,  into  the 
flood  of  melody.  Gustav  Mahler. 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  153 


Slowly  the  curtain  rises.  There  is  a  student's  tavern,  the  young 
men  drinking,  boasting,  and  jesting.  Hoffmann,  the  poet  and  musi- 
cian, appears  on  the  scene  and  is  teased  by  his  comrades  because 
he  has  fallen  in  love  once  again.  They  ask  him  to  recount  the  story 
of  his  foolish  amours  and  he  begins:  "The  name  of  my  first  beloved 
was  Olympia.  .  . ." 

The  play  takes  us  back,  in  the  ensuing  act,  to  what  happened 
to  young  E.  T.  A.  Hoffmann  as  he  met  Olympia  in  the  home  of  the 
famous  scientist  Spallanzani,  whose  daughter  she  appears  to  be.  It 
is  love  at  first  sight,  with  no  realization  that  she  is  not  a  living 
woman  but  an  automatic  doll,  fashioned  with  the  utmost  skill.  The 
charming  girl  is  seen  at  a  party.  When  Spallanzani  pushes  a  con- 
cealed button,  she  speaks,  she  walks,  she  sings  and  dances.  Hoff- 
man confesses  his  love  for  her  and  is  elated  when  he  hears  her 
"yes."  She  dances  with  him  until  exhausted,  then  her  father  or 
maker  leads  her  to  her  chamber.  Then,  a  malignant  looking  man 
by  the  name  of  Coppelius  enters  in  a  rage  and  claims  to  have  been 
swindled  by  Spallanzani.  Vengefully,  he  manages  to  slip  into 
Olympia's  chamber  and  to  smash  the  magnificent  doll  Spallanzani's 
cleverness  had  wrought.  E.  T.  A.  Hoffmann  is  made  the  butt  of  the 
assembled  guests'  ridicule  for  having  fallen  in  love  with  a  lifeless 
automaton. 

The  second  act  takes  place  in  Venice,  at  the  home  of  beautiful 
Giulietta,  who  receives  the  young  poet  as  graciously  as  she  does 
all  the  other  young  men  to  whom  she  grants  her  favors.  Dapertutto, 
a  demoniac  figure,  bribes  the  siren  to  make  a  play  for  Hoffmann's 
love.  She  promises  to  the  ardent  poet  the  key  to  her  bedroom. 
He,  however,  gets  into  a  fight  with  another  of  her  lovers  and  kills 
him.  She  jilts  Hoffmann,  who  finds  her  chamber  deserted  and  espies 
her,  in  the  embraces  of  another,  entering  a  gondola  which  floats 
down  the  Canalo  Grande. 

The  third  act  is  laid  in  Munich,  in  the  house  of  old  Crespel, 
with  whose  fair  daughter,  Antonia,  Hoffmann  has  fallen  in  love. 
The  girl  has  inherited  her  mother's  beautiful  singing  voice  but  also 


154  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

her  fatal  disease,  consumption.  Father  and  lover  plead  with  her  not 
to  sing.  But  Dr.  Mirakel,  a  physician  and  an  evil  sorcerer,  makes 
her  doubtful  again  when  he  reproaches  her  for  giving  up  a  promis- 
ing career.  In  her  presence  he  conjures  up  the  spirit  of  her  dead 
mother  who  joins  with  Dr.  Mirakel  in  his  exhortations  to  break  her 
promise  and  to  continue  with  her  singing.  Antonia  yields  and  dies 
while  singing  her  aria.  Dr.  Mirakel,  then,  disappears,  emitting  peals 
of  triumphant,  mocking  laughter,  leaving  father  and  lover  prey  to 
their  despair. 

In  the  epilogue,  we  witness  the  same  scene  as  in  the  beginning: 
the  students  singing  and  jesting,  shouting  "bravo"  to  Hoffmann's 
tale  of  his  thwarted  love.  He,  in  turn,  proceeds  to  drown  his  grief 
in  drink. 

When  I  went  to  the  opera  that  evening,  I  had  expected  a  light 
and  amusing  operetta  in  the  manner  of  Belle  Helene  or  Orphee 
aux  Enjers,  with  sparkling  melodies,  debunking  gods  and  heroes 
of  Greek  mythology.  But  this  opera  was  so  different.  It  made  a 
deep  impression  on  the  thirteen-year-old  boy.  For  many  weeks 
afterwards,  some  tune  from  The  Tales  of  Hoffmann,  such  as  the 
charming  aria  of  Olympia,  the  chorus  of  the  guests,  the  moving 
aria  of  Antonia,  haunted  me.  Images  from  the  performance  re- 
curred to  the  inner  eye:  there  were  the  evil  and  demoniac  figures 
of  Coppelius,  Dapertutto  and  Dr.  Mirakel,  played  by  the  same 
singer.  They  appeared  as  personifications  of  a  mysterious  power 
that  destroys  again  and  again  the  young  poet's  love  and  happiness. 
Also,  the  image  of  the  pale  face  of  Gustav  Mahler  himself  reap- 
peared, looking  like  a  sorcerer,  like  a  spiritualized  Dr.  Mirakel, 
performing  wonders  with  the  orchestra.  And  then  the  female  fig- 
ures, played,  as  they  were,  by  the  same  singer:  Olympia,  Giulietta 
and  Antonia.  They  appeared  to  be  three  women  in  one,  a  triad 
which  is  always  the  same.  There  was,  in  the  boy,  a  foreknowledge 
or  presentiment  of  a  deeper  meaning  behind  the  succession  of  the 
three  loves  and  their  tragic  endings,  but  this  concealed  meaning 
eluded  him  whenever  he  tried  to  penetrate  the  mystery. 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  155 


When  I  heard  the  opera  again,  almost  twenty  years  later,  that 
which  had  been  dark,  became  transparent.  It  was  like  developing 
an  old  photographic  plate.  The  chemical  processes  to  which  the 
plate  had  been  subjected  in  the  meantime  had  made  it  possible  to 
obtain  now  a  positive  print.  The  triad  had  revealed  its  secret  in 
the  light  of  what  I  had  learned  and  experienced  in  psychoanalysis. 

In  every  one  of  his  attachments,  young  Hoffmann  had  met  an 
antagonist  called  variously,  Coppelius,  Dapertutto  and  Dr.  Mirakel. 
This  secret  opponent  was  out  to  defeat  the  poet;  he  turned  the 
beloved  against  Hoffmann  or  destroyed  her.  At  the  beginning  we 
see  Hoffmann  infatuated  or  in  love.  We  see  him  broken  in  spirit, 
in  misery  and  despair,  at  the  end.  The  easily  inflamed  passion  of 
the  young  man  meets  an  antagonistic  power,  self-deceiving  and 
self-harming,  which  causes  him  to  fail.  That  which  makes  him 
luckless  and  miserable  is  conceived  as  outside  forces.  But  is  it  not 
rather  some  agent  within  himself  emerging  from  dark  subterranean 
depths?  The  sinister  figures,  who  blind  him  about  Olympia,  who 
cause  Giulietta  to  jilt  him,  and  to  bring  death  and  destruction  to 
Antonia,  are  personifications  only  of  a  foiling  power  which  is  an 
unconscious  part  of  Hoffmann  himself.  This  hidden  factor  which 
frustrates  him  each  time  in  the  end  is  operative  already  in  his 
choices  of  his  love  objects.  As  if  led  by  a  malicious  destiny,  as  if 
thwarted  by  a  demon,  he  falls  in  love  each  time  with  a  woman 
who  is  unsuitable:  Olympia,  a  lifeless  automaton,  Giulietta,  a 
vixen,  and  Antonia,  doomed  from  the  beginning. 

The  personalities  of  the  three  women,  themselves,  as  well  as  the 
sequence  of  their  succession,  seem  to  express  a  concealed  signifi- 
cance, hint  at  a  symbolic  meaning  behind  the  events.  It  is  as  if  the 
author  was  presenting  not  only  the  particular  case  of  this  German 
poet  and  musician,  Hoffmann,  but  beyond  that  a  situation  of  uni- 
versal significance.  Does  the  play  want  to  say  that  every  young 
man  follows  such  a  pattern  in  his  loves?  Yet  our  feeling  balks 
at  such  a  meaning.  We  find  ourselves  at  a  kind  of  psychological 
impasse,  both  willing  and  recalcitrant  to  believe,  feeling  a  fusion 


156  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

and  confusion  of  emotions  which  oppose  each  other.  We  sense 
there  is  a  hidden  general  meaning;  yet  what  happens  to  E.  T.  A. 
Hoffmann,  especially  his  loves  for  those  strange  female  characters, 
is  so  specific  and  personal  that  it  cannot  relate  to  us. 

The  closest  coincidence  to  the  love  life  of  the  average  young 
man  may  be  seen  in  Hoffmann's  infatuation  for  Giulietta,  the  heart- 
less, Venetian  courtesan,  who  wants  to  enslave  him  for  reasons  of 
her  own.  Her  charm  fills  him  with  consuming  fire,  he  puts  himself 
in  bondage  to  her  ready  to  sacrifice  all  to  his  passion.  Need  we 
search  here  for  a  deeper  meaning?  We  have  the  lady  of  easy  or 
absent  virtue,  who  plays  with  all  men  and  with  whom  all  men  play. 
Here  we  really  have  a  type  which  is  to  be  found  in  every  man's 
life;  the  object  of  uninhibited  sexual  wishes,  the  mistress  desir- 
able in  the  flesh. 

But  what  should  we  think  of  Olympia?  We  meet  here  with  an 
odd  love  object,  something  almost  incredible.  The  girl  walks  and 
laughs,  speaks,  dances  and  sings.  She  is,  as  Hoffmann  discovers 
later  and  too  late,  really  only  an  automaton,  which  does  not  func- 
tion unless  her  clever  creator  pushes  certain  buttons.  Where  is  the 
place  of  such  a  strange  creature  in  every  man's  life?  Should  we 
assume  that  the  author  wanted  to  give  an  exaggerated  caricature 
of  the  baby-faced,  doll-like  darling  who  has  no  life  of  her  own,  the 
girl  without  brains  and  personality,  the  society  glamour  girl,  the 
plaything  and  toy?  Such  an  interpretation  is  tempting,  it  makes 
rational  sense,  but  remains  unconvincing.  And  Antonia?  Should 
she  be  regarded  as  the  woman  who  hesitates  between  choosing  a 
man  or  a  career?  But  her  character  does  not  tally  with  this  concept. 
The  outstanding  feature,  after  all,  is  the  menace  of  death  connected 
with  her  singing. 

If  we  tentatively  accept  these  rational  concepts,  we  arrive  at  the 
conclusion  that  the  author  wanted  to  portray  three  typical  figures 
who  play  a  role  in  a  young  man's  life.  They  are  the  child-woman, 
the  siren,  and  the  artist,  or  a  woman  who  oscillates  between  want- 
ing to  be  a  wife  or  to  follow  a  career.  Olympia,  Giulietta,  and 
Antonia  would  then  represent  three  types  whom  every  young  man 
meets  and  finds  attractive  in  different  ways,  appealing  as  they  do  to 
the  playful,  the  sensual,  and  the  affectionate  part  in  him.  Was  this 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  157 

in  the  writer's  mind  when  he  created  the  three  women,  representa- 
tive of  their  sex?  Have  we  now  reached  a  better  understanding? 

If  we  have,  we  do  not  feel  satisfied  yet.  Something  warns  us 
against  contenting  ourselves  with  such  an  interpretation.  Should  we 
give  up  our  attempts  at  searching  for  a  deeper  meaning  in  the  three 
female  figures?  Should  we  not  rather  take  them  at  the  value  of  their 
beautiful  faces?  We  cannot  do  it.  We  cannot  escape  the  haunting 
impression  of  a  concealed  significance.  There  is  the  repetitive  char- 
acter in  spite  of  individual  variations,  the  hidden  logic  which  gives 
the  play  its  tragic  atmosphere.  The  sinister  figures  of  the  mysteri- 
ous antagonist  intensify  the  impression.  They  give  to  the  events  on 
the  stage  a  sense  of  something  preordained  and  fateful  which  can- 
not be  accidental.  Other  traits  too  make  it  evident  that  the  author 
was  well  aware  of  the  veiled  significance,  for  instance,  the  remark 
of  one  of  the  students  after  Hoffmann  has  told  the  story  of  his 
loves:  "I  understand,  three  dramas  in  one  drama." 

Besides  and  beyond  such  small  but  telling  items  in  the  text,  there 
is  the  force  of  this  music  in  which  the  secret  power  of  the  inevi- 
table, the  shadow  of  near  death,  and  the  spell  of  destiny  have  been 
transformed  into  song.  This  power  is  felt  in  the  playful  and  spar- 
kling tunes  of  the  students,  in  the  Mozartian  entrance  of  the  guests, 
in  the  sweet  aria  of  Olympia,  and  in  the  alluring  barcarole  of 
Giulietta.  It  laughs  and  mocks  in  Dr.  Mirakel's  tunes.  It  pleads  in 
Hoffmann's  confessions  of  love,  in  the  exhortations  of  the  dead 
mother,  and  in  Antonia's  swan  song.  There  is  something  in  the 
conjuring  power  of  this  music,  in  the  depths  of  feeling  it  stirs,  in 
the  death  fear  and  death  desire  it  pours  into  unforgettable  melo- 
dies, which  does  not  allow  you  to  escape  from  this  haunting  sense 
of  a  concealed  significance.  Whether  or  not  the  librettist  meant  to 
express  a  symbolic  meaning,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  com- 
poser did.  There  is  more  in  the  events  on  the  stage  and  in  this 
music  than  what  meets  the  eye  and  the  ear. 


158  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 


Impossible,  that  the  interpretation  of  the  three  feminine  figures 
has  reached  the  deepest  level  yet.  They  must  be  more  than  mere 
types  of  women,  even  if  they  are  also  that.  There  is  something  more 
meaningful  in  the  three  acts  than  the  choice  of  three  girls  and 
three  disappointments  in  love.  The  rational  concept  of  the  meaning 
of  the  three  women  all  of  a  sudden  strikes  me  as  superficial,  flat, 
and  banal.  It  is  very  possible,  even  probable,  that  such  a  common- 
place was  in  the  mind  of  the  writer,  but  unconsciously  he  said 
more  than  he  consciously  knew,  expressed  a  meaning  beyond  his 
grasp.  It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  the  French  librettist  took  the 
material  of  the  text  from  The  Tales  of  Hoffmann  from  various 
novels  by  the  German  writer,  Ernst  Theodor  Amadeus  Hoffmann 
(1776-1822),  whom  he  then  made  the  leading  figure  of  the  opera. 
In  these  stories,  Hoffmann  showed  a  strange  mixture  of  the  realistic 
and  the  phantastic,  of  the  grotesque  and  the  tragic,  creating  a 
ghastly,  haunting  atmosphere  even  there  where  he  depicts  only 
everyday  events.  Offenbach's  melodies  communicate  to  you  the 
deeper  insight;  they  speak  immediately  to  your  emotions,  alerted 
as  they  are  by  the  hidden  element  of  the  dramatic  action,  although 
the  plot  itself  presents  only  the  surface  aspect  of  something  elusive 
and  mystifying. 

In  a  situation  like  this,  psychoanalytic  interpretation  comes  into 
its  own,  furnishing  a  key,  as  it  does  to  a  locked  room,  allowing  us 
to  penetrate  below  the  surface  of  conscious  thinking.  There  is  not 
much  of  a  mystery  about  Giulietta:  she  remains  the  "courtesan  with 
brazen  mien"  as  she  is  called  in  the  play.  What  might  give  us  food 
for  thought  is  rather  her  place  in  the  sequence  of  the  female  figures. 
She  stands  in  the  middle,  following  after  Olympia,  the  doll,  and 
preceding  Antonia  over  whom  looms  the  shadow  of  death.  Since 
Giulietta  represents  the  woman  who  arouses  and  appeals  to  man's 
sensual  desires,  promising  their  fulfillment,  her  middle  position  in 
the  sequence  suggests  the  interpretation  that  in  her  is  represented 
the  figure  which  governs  the  mature  years  of  a  man's  life. 

More  intriguing  is  the  personality  of  Olympia.  How  does  this 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  159 

doll,  the  child-woman  appear  in  the  light  of  psychoanalytic  inter- 
pretation? What  can  be  the  significance  of  her  appearance  in  Hoff- 
mann's life,  with  this  mixture  of  features,  both  grotesque  and 
pathetic?  Freud  has  taught  us  that  the  hidden  meaning  of  many 
dreams,  neurotic  symptoms  and  other  products  of  unconscious 
activity  remains  obscure  as  long  as  their  manifest  content  alone  is 
taken  into  consideration.  In  certain  instances  the  concealed  mean- 
ing of  a  dream,  for  example,  can  only  be  understood  by  reversing 
important  parts  of  the  dream  plot.  Then,  and  only  then,  and  in  no 
other  way,  may  the  meaning  be  unraveled  from  the  distortions  in 
such  cases.  Olympia  is  a  doll  who  speaks  and  moves  and  sings  only 
if  and  when  appropriate  buttons  are  pushed,  when  she  is  being 
led  and  manipulated.  If  we  are  to  reverse  the  story,  we  get  the 
picture  of  Hoffmann  being  led  by  hidden  strings  like  a  marionette. 
Or,  if  we  go  one  step  further,  he  is  made  to  walk  and  talk  and 
sing  and  act  like  an  infant.  The  reversal  of  this  part  of  the  plot 
seems  thus  to  place  the  story  of  Hoffmann's  first  love  in  his  infancy. 
The  poet  appears  in  the  reversal  as  a  little  boy,  and  Olympia  as 
representing  his  mother  who  plays  with  him.  He  cannot  act  in- 
dependently of  her,  and  follows  her  about.  If  we  are  willing  to  trust 
this  psychoanalytic  interpretation  which,  after  all,  does  not  sound 
any  more  phantastic  than  the  story  of  Hoffmann's  first  love  in  the 
operatic  plot,  some  meaning  in  the  succession  of  the  two  figures 
dawns  on  us:  Olympia  and  Giulietta.  If  Olympia  represents  the 
mother,  the  first  love  object  of  the  small  boy,  then  Giulietta  is  the 
woman  loved  and  desired  by  the  grown  man,  the  object  of  his 
passionate  wishes,  the  mistress  who  gratifies  his  sensual  desires. 

But  what  is  hidden  then  behind  the  last  figure?  Who  is  con- 
cealed behind  Antonia?  When  we  trust  to  psychoanalytic  interpre- 
tation, this  riddle  will  not  be  hard  to  solve.  Antonia  vacillates 
between  her  love  for  Hoffmann  and  her  love  for  music.  She  dis- 
obeys the  warnings  not  to  sing  and  dies.  When  we  reverse  the  con- 
tents again,  as  we  did  before,  we  arrive  at  the  following  meaning: 
Hoffmann,  the  poet,  vacillates  between  his  love  and  his  art,  and  he 
dies.  In  the  sequence  of  the  plot,  Antonia  is  the  last  image  of  woman 
as  she  appears  to  the  old  man.  Antonia  is  the  figure  of  death.  The 
three  female  figures  appear  to  us  now  in  a  new  light:  Olympia  as 


160  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  representative  of  the  mother,  object  of  the  love  of  the  helpless 
and  dependent  little  boy;  Giulietta  as  the  desired  mistress  of  the 
grown  man,  Antonia  as  the  personification  of  death  which  the  old 
man  is  approaching. 

It  is  at  this  point  in  our  attempts  at  unraveling  the  hidden  pat- 
tern of  meaning  behind  Offenbach's  opera,  that  the  mental  image 
of  the  composer  himself  emerges,  shaded  by  the  knowledge  of  his 
life  story.  Can  it  be  incidental  that  he,  already  fatally  ill,  worked 
feverishly  at  this,  his  last  opus  which  he  hoped  was  going  to  be  his 
best  accomplishment?  They  called  him  then  in  Paris  "Mozart  of  the 
Champs  Elysees."  Mozart,  his  beloved  and  revered  master,  knew 
when  he  composed  his  Requiem  that  he  would  die  soon.  Offenbach 
too  realized  that  his  end  was  approaching.  He  put  his  full  creative 
power  into  his  work,  and  he  died  after  it  was  completed  like 
Antonia  during  her  swan  song.  In  the  demoniac  tunes  of  Dr. 
Mirakel  are  all  the  shudders  of  the  approaching  annihilation.  All 
passionate  longing  for  life  and  light  is  poured  into  the  third  act. 
Offenbach  wrote  to  M.  Carvallio,  Director  of  the  Paris  Opera: 
"Hurry  to  produce  my  play.  Not  much  time  is  left  to  me  and  I 
have  only  the  one  wish  to  see  the  opening  performance."  He  knew 
he  had  to  complete  his  work  even  if  his  efforts  would  accelerate 
his  death.  It  did.  He  died  a  few  months  before  the  opening  night. 
Like  Antonia  he  perished  in  his  song. 

It  is  not  accidental  that  E.  T.  A.  Hoffmann,  the  hero  of  the 
opera,  was  himself  a  musician  as  well  as  a  poet.  The  identification  of 
Offenbach  with  the  figure  of  Antonia  is  also  indicated  in  her  pas- 
sionate desire  to  become  an  artist  like  her  mother  whose  spirit 
exhorts  her  to  sacrifice  all  to  her  singing.  Offenbach's  father  was  a 
singer  in  the  synagogue  and  a  composer  of  Jewish  religious  music. 

The  psychoanalytic  interpretation  here  presented  may  seem 
forced  to  the  reader  unfamiliar  with  the  methods  of  eliciting  un- 
conscious meanings.  It  will  be  helpful  to  point  out  that  the  symbolic 
significance  here  discovered  is  only  a  restatement  in  new  form  of 
an  old  motif  well  known  from  numerous  ancient  myths  and  tales. 
It  can  be  called  the  motif  of  the  man  and  the  three  women  one  of 
whom  he  has  to  choose.  Freud  gave  the  first  psychoanalytical  inter- 
pretation of  this  recurrent  plot  in  one  of  his  less  known  papers.1  He 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  161 

deciphered  the  concealed  meaning  in  the  material  of  Lear,  which 
Shakespeare  had  taken  from  older  sources.  The  old  king  stands 
between  his  three  daughters  of  whom  the  youngest,  Cordelia,  is 
the  most  deserving.  Goneril  and  Regan  vie  with  each  other  in 
protestations  of  their  affection  for  the  father,  but  Cordelia  "loves 
and  is  silent."  In  the  last  scene  of  the  drama,  Lear  carries  Cordelia, 
who  is  dead,  across  the  stage.  Freud  elucidated  the  hidden  signifi- 
cance of  this  scene  by  the  process  of  reversal.  It  means,  of  course, 
the  figure  of  death  who  carries  away  the  body  of  Old  Lear,  as  the 
Valkyries  carry  off  the  slain  hero.  Traces  of  this  original  meaning 
can  be  seen  already  in  the  scene  of  Cordelia  bending  over  her 
"childchanged  father."  As  is  frequently  the  case  of  dreams  about 
persons  dear  to  the  dreamer,  Cordelia's  silence  in  itself  signifies 
unconsciously  that  she  is  dead,  that  she  is  death  itself  in  a  mythical 
form. 

The  same  motif,  displaced,  distorted  and  elaborated,  appears 
in  another  one  of  Shakespeare's  plays.  The  Portia  scenes  in  the 
Merchant  of  Venice  reveal  to  the  interpretation  of  Freud  an  unex- 
pected aspect.  Portia  will  yield  her  hand  to  the  man  who,  among 
three  caskets,  chooses  the  one  which  contains  her  picture.  Here  we 
encounter  a  hidden  symbolism  which  we  already  know  from  Greek 
antiquity:  boxes,  chests  and  other  receptacles  are  symbolic  substi- 
tutes for  the  female  body.  In  the  Bassanio  scene  of  the  play,  the 
motif  of  the  man  who  has  to  choose  between  three  women  is  thus 
expressed  in  symbolic  form.  Bassanio  prefers  the  casket  which  is 
leaden  to  the  gold  and  silver  ones: 

.  .  .  but  thou,  thou  meager  lead, 

Which  rather  threatenest,  than  dost  promise  aught. 

Thy  paleness  moves  me  more  than  eloquence. 

The  features  of  paleness,  like  silence  in  the  case  of  Cordelia, 
appear  frequently  in  dreams  to  signify  that  a  figure  is  dead:  persons 
who  are  deathly  pale  or  who  are  voiceless  represent  dead  persons 
or  death  itself.  Antonia  in  The  Tales  of  Hoffmann  is  a  singer,  it  is 
true,  but  to  sing  is  forbidden  to  her  and  it  is  her  song  which  brings 
about  her  death,  silences  her  forever.  In  unconscious  productions, 
opposites  may  stand  for  each  other,  can  replace  each  other.  The 


162  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

secret  similarities  between  the  two  Shakespearian  plays  become 
transparent:  an  old  motif  appears  in  the  one  in  a  tragic,  in  the 
other  in  a  light  version.  What  is  in  reality  inevitable  and  preor- 
dained, namely  that  in  the  end  man  has  to  yield  to  death,  is  here 
turned  into  a  free  choice.  That  which  threatens  is  changed  into 
wish-fulfillment — a  result  itself  of  wishful  thinking.  There  are  hints 
which  point  to  the  original  meaning,  to  the  kind  of  a  choice  in- 
volved. ("Who  chooses  me  must  give  and  hazard  all  he  hath"  says 
the  leaden  casket  "which  rather  threatenest  than  dost  promise 
aught"  to  Bassanio.) 

Let  me  follow  the  old  motif  into  the  realm  of  the  fairy  tale  where 
we  meet  with  it  frequently  in  its  diverse  forms,  for  instance,  in  the 
story  of  Cinderella  who  is  the  youngest  of  the  sisters,  and  conceals 
herself.  We  can  trace  it  farther  back  to  the  Erynyes,  Parcae  and 
Moiras,  the  goddesses  of  fate  who  are  standing  guard  over  indi- 
vidual destiny.  The  third  figure  among  them  is  Atropos,  who  cut 
the  thread  of  life.  Corresponding  to  the  Parcae  are  the  Norse  in 
Germanic  mythology  who,  too,  are  conceived  as  watching  over 
human  fate.  They  rule  over  gods  and  men  alike,  and  from  what  is 
decreed  by  them  neither  god  nor  man  can  escape.  Man's  fate  is 
determined  by  them  at  the  hour  of  the  child's  birth,  by  what  they 
say  to  the  newborn  infant.  The  word  fate  (fatum)  itself,  is  derived 
from  the  same  root  as  "word"  or  "that  which  is  spoken."  That 
what  they  say  in  magic  words  is  a  man's  fate.  Derived  from  the 
same  Indo-German  root,  the  word  "fee"  in  modern  German,  the 
word  "feie"  in  old  French,  and  the  Irish  adjective  "fay,"  which  is 
contained  in  fairy,  all  originally  denoted  goddesses  of  fate.  In  many 
fairy  tales  the  fairies  are  represented  as  bringing  gifts  to  a  newborn 
infant.  In  most  instances  they  appear  as  beneficent,  as  kind,  lovely, 
well-wishing  figures.  But  in  some  of  the  stories  their  original  fatal 
character  re-emerges  behind  the  benign  aspect. 

In  conformity  with  the  psychological  law  of  the  opposite  which 
can  replace  one  aspect  by  its  protagonist  in  our  unconscious  think- 
ing, the  goddess  of  death  sometimes  appears  under  the  aspect  of 
the  great  goddess  of  Love.  In  most  ancient  mythologies  the  same 
female  figure  has  both  functions  like  Kali  in  India,  Ashtar  with 
the  Semitic  tribes,  and  Aphrodite  with  the  Greeks.  Yes,  indeed, 


The  Three  Women  in  a  Man's  Life  163 

it  is  wishful  thinking  which  succeeded  at  last  in  transforming  the 
most  terrifying  apparition  into  the  desirable,  the  female  figure  of 
death  into  that  of  the  beloved. 

We  look  back  at  Offenbach's  opera:  Olympia,  Giulietta,  Antonia. 
Here  are  three  women  in  one,  or  one  woman  in  three  shapes:  the 
one  who  gives  birth,  the  one  who  gives  sexual  gratification,  the 
one  who  brings  death.  Here  are  the  three  aspects  woman  has  in 
a  man's  life:  the  mother,  the  mistress,  the  annihilator.  The  first 
and  the  last  characters  meet  each  other  in  the  middle  figure.  In 
mythological  and  literary  reactions  the  representatives  of  love  and 
of  destruction  can  replace  each  other  as  in  Shakespeare's  plays,  or 
they  succeed  each  other  as  in  Hoffmann's  tales  of  thwarted  love. 
In  his  three  loves  a  reaction  formation  unfolds  itself:  the  woman 
chosen  appears  in  each  beginning  as  the  loveliest,  most  desirable 
object,  and  always,  in  the  end,  represents  doom  and  death.  It  is 
as  if  her  true  character  reveals  itself  only  in  the  final  scene.  For 
as  long  as  the  reaction  formation  is  in  power,  the  most  terrible 
appears  as  the  most  desirable. 

Behind  all  these  figures  is  originally  a  single  one,  just  as  in 
the  triads  of  goddesses  whom  modern  comparative  history  of  re- 
ligion has  succeeded  in  tracing  back  to  their  prototype  of  one  god- 
dess. For  all  of  us  the  mother  is  the  woman  of  destiny.  She  is  the 
femme  jatale  in  its  most  literal  sense,  because  she  brought  us  into 
the  world,  she  taught  us  to  love,  and  it  is  she  upon  whom  we  call 
in  our  last  hour.  The  mother  as  a  death-dealing  figure  became 
alien  to  our  conscious  thinking.  But  she  may  become  comprehen- 
sible in  this  function  when  death  appears  as  the  only  release  from 
suffering,  as  the  one  aim  desired,  the  final  peace.  It  is  in  this  sense 
the  dying  soldiers  call  for  their  mothers.  I  can  never  forget  a  little 
boy  who,  in  the  agonies  of  a  painful  illness,  cried:  "Mother,  you 
have  brought  me  into  the  world,  why  can't  you  make  me  dead 
now?" 

It  is  noteworthy  that  the  motif  of  one  man  between  three  women 
appears  in  an  earlier  opera  of  Offenbach,  who  took  an  active  part 
in  the  choice  and  shape  of  the  libretto.  The  Belle  Helene  uses  a 
plot  from  Greek  mythology:  Paris,  son  of  Priamos,  has  to  choose 
between  Athene,  Hera  and  Aphrodite.  The  charming  aria  of  the 


164  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

mythological  playboy  says:  "On  Mount  Ida  three  goddesses  quar- 
reled in  the  wood.  'Which,'  said  the  princesses,  'of  us  three  is  the 
fairest?' "  Here,  again,  we  have  the  motif  of  choosing,  this  time 
in  a  frivolous  version.  To  the  young  ladies'  man,  Hera  promises 
power  and  fame,  Athene  wisdom,  but 

.  .  .  the  third,  ah,  the  third 
The  third  remained  silent. 
She  gained  the  price  all  the  same. 

Is  it  not  strange  that  Aphrodite,  the  goddess  of  love,  remains 
silent?  She  does  not  speak,  yet  she  is  eloquent.  In  the  end  the 
young  prince  chooses  her,  only  it  is  not  choice,  it  is  necessity. 
She  is  not  only  the  goddess  of  Love,  but  also  of  Death.  The  Tales 
of  Hoffmann  tell  and  sing  the  role  of  women  in  a  man's  life;  that  is 
to  say:  in  every  man's  life. 


I  now  remember  when  the  melody  that  haunted  me  for  several 
days  first  emerged.  It  was  a  week  ago  on  my  way  back  from  the 
Public  Library.  I  had  looked  up  something  there.  Before  leaving 
I  had  seen  on  a  desk  a  book  which  was  a  biography  of  Jacques 
Offenbach.  I  took  it,  looked  at  the  composer's  picture  and  ran 
over  the  pages  reading  a  paragraph  here  and  there:  the  story  of 
his  childhood  in  Germany,  his  struggle  and  triumph  at  Paris,  his 
way  of  composing,  the  feverish  working  on  the  score  of  The  Tales 
of  Hoffmann.  He  had  a  presentiment  he  would  not  live  to  see  the 
opening  night  of  the  opera.  He  felt  the  end  was  near.  He  died  a 
few  months  after  he  had  reached  sixty-one. 

Walking  home  through  the  streets  that  evening,  I  thought  of  the 
book  I  am  working  on  and  a  sudden  anxiety  overcame  me  that  I 
would  die  before  finishing  it.  It  occurred  to  me  that  I  had  passed 
sixty-one  a  few  months  ago.  And  then  the  aria  from  The  Tales  of 
Hoffmann  emerged  and  the  unrecognized  melody  began  to  haunt 
me  as  if  it  wanted  to  remind  me  of  something  one  would  like  to 
forget. 

1  Das  Motif  der  Kaestchenwahl,  Gesammelte  Schriften,  Vol.  X. 


Fritz  Wittels 

Heinrich  von  Kleist — 

Prussian  Junker  and  Creative  Genius 

A  Study  in  Bisexuality 


In  studying  the  life  and  work  of  Heinrich  von 
Kleist  we  will  not  only  come  to  an  insight  into  this  great  and  un- 
lucky man  as  an  individual  but,  maybe,  also  to  a  psychological 
understanding  of  Prussian  education  and  its  results  in  the  period 
after  Frederick  the  Great,  whose  tradition  survived  for  almost  two 
centuries. 

Heinrich  von  Kleist  was  born  and  raised  on  the  arid  soil  of 
Brandenburg,  Prussia's  motherland.  Kleist  was  one  of  the  greatest 
poets  and  playwrights  in  the  German  language.  Outside  of  Ger- 
many he  is  little  known,  translations  cannot  re-create  the  particular 
flavor  of  his  work.  In  his  own  country  he  was  more  and  more 
appreciated  after  his  death  (1811),  reaching  the  peak  during  the 
nationalistic  period  in  Germany  after  1870.  No  other  creative 
genius  was  deeper  rooted  in  the  soil  of  Prussia,  no  one  better  quali- 
fied to  convey  the  spirit  of  his  country  with  its  discipline,  sense 
of  duty,  extremism  in  obedience,  and  rebellion. 

165 


166  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

All  his  lifetime  he  was  staggering  from  one  failure  to  the  other. 
He  did  not  see  even  a  single  one  of  his  plays  performed  on  the 
stage.  He  never  could  free  himself  from  the  doom  of  self-destruc- 
tion. He  was  a  clear  case  of  agitated  depression,  definitely  present- 
ing a  psychosis  in  periods  of  exacerbation.  He  died,  thirty-four 
years  old,  a  suicide.  (His  literary  critics  feel  that  Heinrich  von 
Kleist  would  have  become  Germany's  greatest  playwright  could  he 
have  ended  a  normal  span  of  life.  It  is,  however,  futile  to  make 
such  statements,  for  the  same  explosive  forces  that  made  him  great 
also  destroyed  him  before  his  time.) 

Von  Kleist  was  a  "Junker,"  but  his  relatives  felt  that  he  dis- 
graced them.  A  von  Kleist  should  definitely  not  have  been  a  play- 
wright but  an  officer  sitting  on  horseback,  and  commanding  soldiers, 
rigorously.  The  name  of  the  von  Kleist  family  can  be  traced  back 
to  medieval  times  (1175,  according  to  Karl  Federn).  They  gave 
officers  and  generals  to  the  Electors  of  Brandenburg  and  later  to 
the  rulers  of  Prussia,  up  to  the  end  of  World  War  II.  A  general  and 
others  of  the  clan  of  lower  rank  were  fighting  for  the  Nazis.  The 
famous  Field  Marshal  General  Heinrich  Ferdinand  Emil  Kleist, 
Count  of  Nollendorf  (1762-1823),  helped  in  the  liberation  of 
Germany  from  Napoleonic  subjugation. 

Some  members  of  the  family  became  prominent  in  science  in 
the  eighteenth  century.  One  of  the  Kleists  discovered  the  Leyden 
Jar,  the  device  for  storing  static  electricity.  Occupation  with  sci- 
ence, though  inferior  to  military  service,  was  not  considered  dis- 
graceful. After  all,  was  not  war  a  science?  Any  scientific  research 
might  come  in  handy  in  war!  It  was  different  with  poetry,  which 
was  definitely  held  in  contempt.  Even  before  Heinrich,  another  von 
Kleist  indulged  in  poetry.  His  name  was  Ewald  Christian  (171 5— 
1759),  but  he  at  least  remained  a  military  officer  while  Heinrich 
resigned  from  the  army  after  a  few  years  of  service.  Ewald  Chris- 
tian was  killed  a  hero  in  the  battle  of  Kunersdorf  on  August  12, 
1759.  Leading  his  battalion,  he  attacked  a  Russian  battery.  When 
his  right  arm  was  hit,  he  changed  the  sword  to  his  left  hand  and 
went  on  until  three  cannon  shells  smashed  his  right  leg.  He  lay 
unconscious  on  the  battlefield  all  night,  was  sacked  by  the  Cossacks 
and  only  on  the  following  day  was  he  transported  to  Frankfort  on 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  167 

the  Oder.  There  he  died  and  was  buried  with  military  honors  by 
the  Russian  garrison.  In  the  eyes  of  the  family,  Ewald  Christian 
was  an  eccentric  who,  because  of  his  writing  poetry,  skipped  sev- 
eral times  in  military  advancement. 

Heinrich  von  Kleist  was  born  in  1777  in  Frankfort  on  the  Oder, 
a  joyless  small  town  in  Brandenburg,  not  to  be  mistaken  for 
Goethe's  native  town,  Frankfort  on  the  Main,  the  large  city  with 
Western  interests.  Frankfort  on  the  Oder  was  always  a  center  of 
the  von  Kleists.  Heinrich's  father,  a  retired  major,  died  when  the 
boy  was  twelve  years  old.  Heinrich,  being  the  eldest  son,  had  to 
become  a  soldier,  as  a  matter  of  course.  He  had  to  join  the  Pots- 
dam regiment  of  the  Guards  before  he  was  quite  fifteen.  There  he 
got  his  training,  but  no  further  schooling.  In  his  earlier  years  he 
had  been  tutored  privately  and  described  as  an  obedient  average 
student.  At  sixteen,  he  participated  in  the  Rhine  Campaign  of 
1793.  His  letters  of  that  time,  written  in  poor,  ungrammatical  lan- 
guage, reveal  him  as  a  serious  boy,  full  of  respect  for  his  superiors, 
and  well-behaved.  In  the  same  year — and  five  years  after  his 
father's  death — his  mother  died.  He  mourned  her  in  unfree,  hack- 
neyed phrases.1  Nothing  yet  indicated  the  inspired  genius  of  later. 
In  1795,  the  regiment  came  home  from  a  rather  inglorious  cam- 
paign, in  1797  he  received  his  commission  and  two  years  later 
Kleist  resigned.  We  know  little  of  the  deeper  motivation  for  this 
step,  a  step  so  unusual  to  be  done  by  a  von  Kleist.  From  his  dry, 
schoolmasterly,  pedantic  letters  to  his  fiancee,  Wilhelmine  von 
Zenge,  we  may  be  sure  of  one  fact:  Kleist  had  not  found  himself 
yet.  At  the  time  of  his  resignation,  and  long  afterwards,  he  re- 
mained a  typical  representative  of  the  "Junker"  spirit — a  dry  duty- 
and-service-machine  plus  the  explosive  feeling  that  he  could  not 
continue  in  service. 

Why  did  he  resign?  We  have  a  letter  written  to  an  older  friend 
in  which  Kleist  tried  to  explain  his  decision.  The  letter  is  of  enor- 
mous length  and  boring  as  are  all  of  his  utterances  of  those  days. 
In  the  army — he  wrote  to  his  friend — one  cannot  be  both  an  officer 
and  a  human  being.  That  was  why  he  had  to  quit.  As  good  as  this 
sounds  we  cannot  but  consider  his  motivation  a  rationalization  of 
deeper  instinctive  forces.  At  the  time  of  his  resignation,  Kleist  lived 


168  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  Berlin  and  Potsdam  and  his  service,  except  for  a  six  weeks' 
period  of  maneuvers,  was  far  from  strenuous.  He  was  given  to 
studies  and  to  music  and  he  had  excellent  friends  among  the  offi- 
cers of  the  garrison.  We  mention  here  two  of  them,  since  they  will 
appear  further  in  this  short  biography:  Ernst  von  Pfuel,  who  much 
later,  1848,  became  Prussian  secretary  of  war,  and  Otto  von 
Ruehle,  later  chief  of  the  general  staff. 

In  order  to  perceive  Kleist's  deeper  motives,  we  have  to  look 
at  the  psychology  of  the  Prussian  army  as  organized  by  the  "Great 
Elector"  in  the  seventeenth  century,  filled  with  compulsive  spirit 
by  King  Frederick  William  I,  proven  a  formidable  instrument  of 
war  by  Frederick  the  Great,  and  declining  after  the  latter's  death 
(1786).  It  was  in  that  phase  of  rapid  decline  that  Heinrich  von 
Kleist  entered  this  "organization  of  men,"  spending  eight  of  his 
formative  years  in  it  before  he  quit. 

Elsewhere  I  tried  to  show  the  part  that  obsession,  paranoia,  and 
latent  homosexuality  played  in  the  origin  of  the  Prussian  army  with 
its  brittle  discipline,  its  sense  of  duty  and  specific  honor.2 

I  discussed  military,  religious,  and  students'  organizations,  their 
bloom  and  their  decay,  and  also  smaller  groups  of  men  which  not 
only  became  hotbeds  of  overt  homosexuality  but  in  addition  served 
a  double  purpose  in  cases  of  latent  homosexuality.  Double,  be- 
cause the  organization  prevented  the  outbreak  of  the  perversion 
by  sublimating  the  dangerous,  undesirable,  instinct  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  turned  libido  away  from  woman  to  its  own  overheated 
and  therefore  sexualized  aims.  In  this  way,  the  community  fostered 
subliminal  homosexuality  which  broke  through  whenever  the  orig- 
inal aims  weakened. 

Quoting  myself:  "As  long  as  the  covenant  remains  strong  in 
its  aims  and  practices  it  succeeds  in  its  sublimation.  If  it  is  weak- 
ened as  a  result  of  a  clash  with  inimical  social  forces,  the  homo- 
sexual drive  breaks  through — all  the  more  strongly  since  the  spe- 
cific energy  of  the  drive  was  continuously  fed  to  grow  in  the  group. 
In  such  phases  of  transition,  in  the  midst  of  the  danger  of  a  break- 
through, the  practice  of  the  covenant  is  usually  intensified,  which 
makes  it  appear  more  and  more  morbid  until  in  the  end  overt 
homosexuality  comes  to  the  fore  just  the  same.  History  is  full  of 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  169 

examples  of  this  kind,  particularly  medieval  history.  Religious 
orders  of  monks  and  knights  before,  during,  and  after  the  Cru- 
sades show  these  psychological  mechanisms,  frequently  extended 
over  centuries." 

Not  only  history  offers  examples  of  men's  societies  with  their 
double  aim,  everyday  life  also  is  full  of  such  clubs,  enthusiastic 
flag  bearers,  smaller  and  larger  groups  of  men  which,  as  a  rule, 
serve  well  to  keep  the  balance  between  the  components  of  bisexu- 
ality.  We  may  express  this  in  biblical  words :  Render  unto  woman 
the  things  which  are  woman's  and  unto  man  the  things  that  are 
man's. 

The  following  will  prove  that  Kleist  all  through  his  short  life 
had  to  run  away  from  his  homosexual  tendencies;  most  of  the  time 
latent,  but  occasionally  breaking  through  as  overt  perversion,  he 
was  haunted  by  them  as  by  Eumenides.  And  we  reach  the  conclu- 
sion that  Kleist  resigned  from  the  army  because  its  touch  of  latent 
and  overt  homosexuality  was  too  much  for  him.  We  know  that 
Kleist  suffered  from  a  slight  anomaly  of  his  penis,  most  likely  a 
phimosis,  the  somatic  contribution  to  his  compulsive  masturbation. 
He  complained  about  it  in  a  letter  to  his  friend  L.  von  Brocke, 
ten  years  his  senior.  That  letter  does  not  exist,  but  we  have  von 
Brocke's  reply,  containing  words  of  consolation.3  Much  was  writ- 
ten about  Kleist's  trip  to  Wuerzburg,  because  he  himself  wrapped 
it  in  mystery,  which  is  natural  enough,  and  on  the  other  hand  he 
referred  to  it  in  romantic  exaggerations  quite  out  of  proportion. 
This  gave  rise  to  all  kinds  of  guesswork. 

Between  Kleist's  resignation  from  the  army  and  that  trip  to 
Wuerzburg  lay  one  and  a  half  years  of  studies  at  the  second-rate 
university  of  his  home  town.  He  spent  there  three  semesters  study- 
ing mathematics,  philosophy  and  physics,  according  to  the  second 
tradition  of  his  family.  Although  he  was  sitting  up  with  his  text- 
books every  night,  he  got  nowhere  and  quit  his  studies,  too.  In 
those  days  he  met  Wilhelmine  von  Zenge.  (Mind  you,  there  was 
hardly  anybody  in  his  company  without  a  "von.")  Wilhelmine  was 
the  daughter  of  a  Prussian  colonel.  Kleist  was  soon  more  or  less 
officially  engaged  to  her.  A  great  number  of  Kleist's  letters  to  her 
were  later  destroyed  by  Wilhelmine  and  her  family.  All  of  the 


170  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

surviving  correspondence  is  strangely  dry  and  boring.  The  fiery 
poet  of  later  years  assumes  the  part  of  a  petty  bourgeois  school- 
master in  his  letters  to  Wilhelmine. 

In  1780,  Kleist  left  Frankfort  on  the  Oder  with  its  provincial 
university.  He  moved  to  Berlin,  hoping  to  get  a  position  in  civil 
service.  He  was  probably  pressed  by  his  fiancee's  family,  who 
would  not  permit  a  marriage  to  a  man  without  a  regular  income. 
We  know  that  Kleist's  trip  to  Berlin  had  another,  and  secret,  aim: 
the  surgical  operation,  which  was  soon  performed  in  Wuerzburg. 
He  spoke  vaguely  of  it  in  a  letter  to  his  sister  Ulrike.  He  hoped, 
as  he  put  it  in  that  letter,  to  save  by  his  journey  "happiness,  honor 
and,  maybe,  the  life  of  a  man." 

After  the  death  of  his  mother,  Ulrike  von  Kleist,  three  years 
his  senior,  was  perhaps  the  only  feminine  creature  whom  Heinrich 
really  loved — his  mother  substitute.  Ulrike  was  a  masculine  woman 
who  always  had  to  help  when  her  brother  fell  into  a  desperate 
plight,  which  happened  often  enough.  In  his  letter  he  queried: 
"Why  are  you  not  a  man? — My  God,  how  deeply  I  have  always 
wished  for  that.  ...  If  you  were  a  man — because  a  woman  can 
never  be  my  confidant — I  would  not  have  to  look  for  a  friend  so 
far  away!  Do  not  try  to  find  out  the  aim  of  my  journey,  even  if 
you  could,  do  not  do  it.  Think  that  I  can  reach  my  aim  only  by 
concealing  it  from  all  men.  At  least  for  the  time  being,  because 
some  day  it  will  be  my  pride  and  my  joy  to  tell  it.  .  .  ." 

One  week  after  his  arrival  in  Wuerzburg  he  wrote  to  his  fiancee 
that  he  had  been  promised  certain  relief.  Of  what  disease?  That 
he  could  not  say  yet.  One  month  later  he  told  Wilhelmine  that 
he  was  cured  now  and  in  a  position  to  get  happily  married  to  her. 
It  was  a  jubilant  letter,  written  on  his  twenty-third  birthday,  and 
it  ended  with  the  words:  "Let  your  next  goal  be  to  be  trained  for 
a  mother.  My  goal  is  to  become  a  good  citizen.  Our  further  goal — 
which  both  of  us  will  try  to  reach  and  which  we  can  make  sure 
of — is  the  fulfillment  of  love.  Good  night,  Wilhelmine,  my  fiancee, 
soon  my  bride,  soon  mother  of  my  children." 

He  returned  to  Berlin,  but  his  jubilant  spirit  did  not  prevail. 
He  got  the  coveted  job,  but  he  could  not  keep  it.  A  few  months 
later  he  ran  away  from  civil  service  just  as  he  had  from  the  army. 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  171 

This  time  he  traveled  to  Paris  with  his  sister.  Ulrike  disguised 
herself  as  a  man  and  in  this  disguise  she  lived  in  Paris  for  months. 
Her  brother,  in  contrast,  looked  amazingly  girlish.  We  have  a 
miniature  of  Kleist  by  Krueger  which  displays  these  feminine 
features. 

Kleist's  always  flattering  biographers  state  that  this  good  and 
true  Prussian  from  the  Mark  Brandenburg  could,  as  a  matter  of 
course,  not  like  the  "Babylon  on  the  Seine."  We  have  to  add  here: 
the  heterosexual  Babylon.  From  Paris,  Kleist  moved  to  Switzer- 
land where  he  decided  to  become  a  farmer.  He  wrote  to  his  fiancee, 
who  patiently  waited  for  him  in  Frankfort,  to  join  him  in  Switzer- 
land as  a  farmer's  wife.  When  she  declined,  he  abruptly  ended 
that  joyless  relation  (1802).  Telling  her  of  his  new  burning  ambi- 
tion to  become  a  famous  writer,  he  closed  his  letter  with  the  words: 
"Dear  girl,  do  not  write  me  any  more.  I  have  no  other  wish  than 
to  die  soon.  H.K." 

We  realize  the  contradiction  here:  burning  ambition  in  the  bud 
and  death  wish.  Yet  both  desires  existed  in  this  tortured  soul  simul- 
taneously. To  be  sure,  marriage  was  impossible  to  him. 

Kleist's  life  was  a  regular  museum  of  defense  mechanisms  against 
homosexuality.  All  of  his  reaction  formations  were  destined  either 
to  break  down  or  did  not  succeed  sufficiently  to  redeem  him  for 
any  length  of  time.  His  resignation  from  the  army  shows  the  run- 
away complex,  which  psychoanalysts  frequently  observe  in  their 
patients.4 

Kleist  ran  away  not  only  from  the  army,  but  also  from  his  sci- 
entific studies,  from  civil  service,  from  his  fiancee,  from  Germany, 
from  Paris,  from  Switzerland,  from  anyone  and  everywhere.  With 
this  trend  was  coupled  an  obsessional  desire  to  withdraw,  to  be 
left  alone:  a  hermit  complex.  The  hermit  is  the  logical  sequence 
of  the  quitter.  Withdrawal  from  the  social  danger  of  overt  homo- 
sexuality is  followed  by  the  flight  into  solitude.  We  know  many 
examples  of  this  form  of  narcissism  in  psychiatric  practice  as  well 
as  in  universal  history.  This  defense  mechanism  cannot  last,  be- 
cause the  same  forces  that  drive  a  man  into  solitude  drive  him 
out  of  it  after  a  relatively  short  time.  Temptation  follows  the  hermit 
into  the  desert. 


172  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Kleist  met  a  number  of  literary  men  in  Switzerland,  who  ac- 
cepted him  as  their  equal.  Then  and  there,  his  burning  ambition 
to  be  a  great  writer  was  born.  Later  he  was  to  be  not  only  their 
equal,  but  to  develop  outstanding  genius.  This  gift  of  the  gods 
could  have  saved  him  had  he  been  able  to  keep  his  sublimation 
alive.  He  could  not — for  reasons  we  shall  discuss  later. 

We  wish  to  repeat  here  what  Freud  often  emphasized  in  his 
writings  (on  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  Dostoevsky,  etc.) :  Psychoanalysis 
is  not  in  a  position  to  solve  the  mystery  of  artistic  creativeness. 
We  can  tell  why  a  certain  author  must  choose  his  particular  mate- 
rial and  work  it  out  his  particular  way.  Dostoevsky  had  to  describe 
parricide  and  glorify  a  certain  type  of  woman.  In  the  case  of 
Leonardo  it  was  the  "Leonardesque"  smile  and  bisexual  motifs. 
In  the  case  of  the  Prussian  militarist,  Heinrich  von  Kleist,  it  was 
Schrecklichkeit  and  supermasculinity.  Psychoanalysis  cannot  tell, 
however,  what  makes  an  author  great  and  creative.  In  our  treatises 
on  creators  we  do  not  even  try  to  tackle  this  problem. 

As  a  rule,  writers  show  their  talent  early.  We  do  not  know  why 
it  unfolded  so  late  in  Kleist's  life,  and  we  refrain  from  guessing. 
Sudden  eruption  of  artistic  qualities  in  people  who  did  not  betray 
them  before,  although  it  is  the  exception,  could  be  observed  in 
some  of  our  great  authors,  e.g.  in  Samuel  Clemens  (Mark  Twain). 
In  the  case  of  Kleist,  recognition  by  a  group  of  congenial  men  be- 
came the  catalytic  agent. 

We  have  a  number  of  Kleist's  letters  to  and  about  friends  in 
which  he  displayed  enthusiasm  and  warmth  that  impress  the  reader 
nowadays  as  homosexual.  However,  we  are  told  that  the  style  of 
letter  writing  in  his  era  was  different  from  ours  and  that  we  have 
no  right  to  suspect  phrases  like  the  following  as  being  of  homo- 
sexual nature: 

(January  1801)  "Sometimes,  at  night,  when  I  fell  asleep  at  his 
breast,  he  held  me  without  falling  asleep  himself."  Or,  in  a  letter 
to  Henry  Lohse:  (December  1801)  "And  you  think  that  I  do 
not  love  you?  Oh,  how  will  you  ever  be  able  to  convince  any  man 
that  I  do  not  love  you?  .  .  .  And  yet  you  could  desert  me?  So 
soon?  So  easily?  ...  It  is  so  hard  for  me  to  say  the  last  word — 
we  were  so  good,  oh  so  good,  to  each  other  in  Paris — are  you 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  173 

not  too  unspeakably  sad?  I  say,  do  you  not  wish  to  put  your  arms 
around  me  once  more?  Do  not  think  at  all,  ask  your  first  impulse 
and  obey  it — and  should  it  be  really  the  last  word — my  God, 
then  I  say  good-bye  to  you  and  to  all  joys!  Good-bye,  good-bye. 
Heinrich  Kleist." 

All  this  is  supposed  to  be  just  eighteenth  century  emotional 
style.  What  a  difference,  however,  between  this  outburst  and  the 
hackneyed  decrees  which  the  same  man  sent  to  his  fiancee  at 
about  the  same  time. 

At  least  one  letter,  discovered  only  some  time  ago,  with  all 
allowances  deducted,  cannot  be  considered  other  than  a  homo- 
sexual love  letter.  It  is  addressed  to  Ernst  von  Pfuel  (January 
1805):  .  .  .  "How  did  we  fall  into  each  other's  arms  a  year  ago 
in  Dresden?  .  .  .  The  fault  is  all  mine.  I  have  involved  you,  oh 
I  cannot  explain  it  to  you  the  way  I  feel  it.  .  .  .  We  will  never 
again  embrace  each  other  that  way.  .  .  .  You  restored  the  age 
of  the  Greek  in  my  heart,  I  could  have  slept  with  you,  my  dear 
boy;  my  soul  embraced  you!  Often  have  I  watched  your  lovely 
body  with  truly  girlish  feelings  when  you  took  a  swim  before  my 
eyes  in  the  lake  at  Thun.  It  could  really  serve  as  a  model  to  an 
artist.  .  .  .  Your  small,  curly-haired  head  over  a  massive  neck, 
two  broad  shoulders,  an  athletic  body,  in  its  totality  a  flawless 
picture  of  strength  as  though  you  were  formed  in  the  image  of 
the  most  beautiful  young  bull  who  ever  had  to  bleed  for  Zeus. 
Lycurgus'  entire  legislation  and  his  concept  of  the  youth's  love 
has  become  clear  to  me  by  the  emotions  you  woke  in  me.  Come 
to  me!  Go  with  me  to  Anspach  and  let  us  enjoy  our  sweet  friend- 
ship. ...  I  will  never  marry,  be  you  my  wife,  my  children  and 
grandchildren!  ...  I  would  like  to  say  more  to  you,  but  it  is  not 
fit  for  a  letter.  .  .  .  Heinrich  von  Kleist,  Berlin,  January  7,  1805." 

This  letter  calls  to  mind  Oscar  Wilde's  letters  to  his  boy  friend. 
The  same  exalted  and  "knowing"  style.  It  is  not  necessarily  the 
letter  of  a  man  indulging  in  the  sexual  practice  of  homosexuality, 
but  undoubtedly  of  a  homosexual  who  fought  his  own  feminine 
component  most  of  his  life.  Kleist  lived  in  a  continuously  repeated 
homosexual  panic. 

In  contradistinction  to  his  femininity,  Kleist  grew  into  virility 


174  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

by  way  of  his  writings.  His  features  betray  him  as  feminine,  his 
writings  shout:  "I  am  a  man,  a  heartless  man."  The  drama  with 
its  sharp  ascent  to  its  climax  and  relentless  descent  to  its  end  is 
the  most  masculine  art  anyhow.  As  mentioned  above,  Kleist  would 
have  become  the  greatest  German  playwright  without  doubt,  had 
it  been  given  him  to  survive.  In  his  writing,  he  is  ruthless  and 
harsh;  his  characters  are  blocks  of  granite,  and  this  not  only  in  his 
stage  plays  but  also  in  his  short  stories,  which  in  terms  of  atrocities 
approach  Nazi  cruelty — except  that  Kleist  did  not  commit  them, 
he  only  recorded  them.  It  was  once  said  that  Shakespeare  would 
have  become  a  horrible  criminal  had  he  not  been  given  the  ability 
to  objectivate  his  cruel  instincts  in  the  form  of  gruesome  characters 
in  his  plays.  The  same  is  true  of  Kleist,  who  belonged  to  a  nation 
which  has  shown  the  world  more  than  once  that  it  can  do  both: 
on  the  one  hand  kill  and  torture,  on  the  other  sublimate  cruel 
tendencies  into  creations  of  art,  sometimes  of  the  highest  order 
(German  music!). 

In  Kleist's  stories,  people  are  buried  alive,  burned,  quartered 
and  broken  on  the  wheel.  Children's  skulls  are  smashed  against 
the  skulls  of  their  own  mothers,  the  inhabitants  of  large  islands 
are  wiped  out,  earthquakes  swallow  towns  completely.  This  un- 
happy man  found  a  way  of  his  own  to  free  himself  of  humane 
feelings  which  he  considered  a  weakness — his  feminine  component. 
As  a  playwright  as  well  as  a  narrator  he  possesses  enormous  force, 
he  carries  you  along  with  the  violence  of  his  actions  and  words 
in  a  pace  that  takes  your  breath  away.  One  cannot  help  feeling 
that  something  is  wrong  with  this  master  of  horrors;  he  is  driven 
by  an  infernal  power,  by  unspeakable,  morbid  suffering,  something 
close  to  insanity,  often  trespassing  the  borderline. 

Kleist's  tragedy,  Penthesilea,  although  more  than  long  enough 
for  one  theater  evening,  rushes  from  start  to  finish  without  any 
subdivision  into  acts.  It  is  a  masterpiece  of  composition  and  char- 
acterization, and  replete  with  beautiful  verses — yet  it  is  the  work 
of  an  insane  genius. 

Penthesilea  is  the  Queen  of  the  Amazons,  who  derive  their 
name  from  their  custom  of  mutilating  their  bosoms  in  order  to 
be  better  able  to  set  a  bow  against  their  chests.  At  their  festival 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  175 

of  the  roses,  they  give  themselves  lovingly  to  men — but  only  after 
having  first  defeated  these  men  in  bloody  battle  and  then  forced 
into  bed  as  their  prisoners.  Kleist's  Amazons  are  supposed  to  be 
quite  feminine,  notwithstanding  the  absence  of  a  bosom  and  the 
custom  of  accepting  defeated  men  only.  Penthesilea  even  says  she 
would  prefer  to  be  dirt  to  being  an  unattractive  woman.  She  sees 
the  Greek  hero,  Achilles,  and  falls  in  love  with  him.  According 
to  the  law  of  her  country,  she  has  to  "embrace  him  with  iron" 
first.  This  is  not  impossible,  in  spite  of  Achilles'  striking  superi- 
ority, because  she  can  take  him  on  with  bloodhounds  and  ele- 
phants. Achilles,  however,  is  not  defeated,  at  least  not  by  her  first 
assault.  He,  too,  falls  in  love,  and  in  order  to  spare  her  feelings 
he  makes  her  believe  that  he  has  been  vanquished  by  her.  In  the 
eyes  of  her  pagan  mother  superior,  Penthesilea  is  a  renegade  any- 
way, because  she  has  singled  out  and  fallen  in  love  with  Achilles 
instead  of  accepting  anybody  whom  she  has  first  prostrated  in 
battle.  To  an  Amazon,  one  man  is  no  different  from  another. 

Achilles,  on  learning  from  Penthesilea  that  all  Amazons  have 
their  right  breast  amputated,  exclaims: 

Could  the  terrific  rumor  yet  be  true? 

And  all  these  blooming  figures 
Surrounding  thee,  the  flowers  of  their  sex, 

Perfect,  each  one  of  them,  as  if  an  altar 

To  kneel  in  love  before  it  and  in  worship, 

They  all  are  robbed,  inhuman,  sinful? 
Penthesilea:     Did  you  not  know  that? 
Achilles  {pressing  his  face  against  her  breast) :     Oh  Queen! 

The  seat  of  all  young  and  lovely  feeling 

Because  of  a  mania,  barbarian — 
Penthesilea:  Be  reassured, 

They  all  take  refuge  in  this  left  one, 

Where  they  dwell  closer  to  the  heart. 

I  hope  you  will  not  miss  the  other. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  remain  serious  about  this  love  scene,  all 
too  close  to  a  parody  on  the  "mamma  complex"  (Edmund  Bergler 
and  Ludwig  Eidelberg) . 

Achilles'  delicate  ruse  is  betrayed  and  Penthesilea  learns  that 
she  has  not  defeated  him  but,  on  the  contrary,  he  had  defeated 


176  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

her.  No  sooner  has  she  discovered  his  romantic  deception  than 
she  changes  into  a  monster.  The  man  loves  her  and  waits  for  her 
unarmed,  not  expecting  hostilities,  but  she  attacks  him  and  hunts 
him  to  death  with  her  dogs  and  arrows.  With  sadistic  voluptuous- 
ness— a  super-Salome — she  assaults  her  murdered  lover  with  her 
teeth  and,  with  her  dogs'  help,  tears  the  corpse  to  pieces.  His 
blood  drips  from  the  corners  of  her  mouth. 

It  was  often  said  that  Penthesilea,  who  desires  to  surrender  to 
man  and  then  despises  surrender,  who  loves  man  and  then  hates 
him,  was — Kleist  himself.  Penthesilea  expresses  his  "girlish"  in- 
stincts and  his  masculine  protest  against  them.  Undoubtedly,  his 
masculine  sister  Ulrike  played  a  more  or  less  unconscious  part  in 
the  conception. 

Kleist  sent  his  tragedy  to  Goethe  (1808),  who  was  then  about 
sixty  and  enthroned  in  Weimar  as  the  recognized  prince  of  Ger- 
many's poets.  He  had  grown  old  in  reverence  of  proportion,  an- 
cient Greek  ideals,  and  rejected  the  play  and  its  author  with  a 
kind  of  horror.  He  said  he  was  sorry  that  an  otherwise  remarkable 
talent  could  go  astray  so  far. 

Shortly  after  Penthesilea,  Kleist  wrote  his  fairy-tale  play 
Kaethchen  of  Heilbronn,  Penthesilea's  antipode.  He  said  himself 
that  the  two  plays  belong  together  like  plus  and  minus.  Penthe- 
silea is  bloody  protest  against  the  man  she  loves,  Kaethchen  is 
all  devotion  and  subservience.  Finally,  she  gets  her  man  just  the 
same,  having  chosen  the  better  way  to  his  subjugation.  The  fifteen- 
year-old  Kaethchen  who,  as  we  eventually  hear,  is  the  illegitimate 
daughter  of  the  emperor,  follows  her  knight  Friedrich  Wetter  Graf 
von  Strahl  (this  is:  Frederick  Thunderstorm  Count  of  the  Flash) 
like  a  dog  in  spite  of  all  the  terror  he  has  in  store  for  her.  She 

I  sleeps  on  straw  in  his  stables.  He  does  not  want  to  have  anything 
to  do  with  her,  but  he  cannot  get  rid  of  her,  neither  with  dogs 
nor  with  the  whip.  She  is  all  humility,  but  in  her  somnambulic 
I  state  she  knows  that  he  will  marry  her  within  a  year's  span. 

In  spite  of  these  extremes,  we  do  not  get  the  impression  of 
perversion  here.  Kleist  approaches  the  peak  of  his  art,  his  salva- 
tion— it  is  time,  because  he  is  only  a  few  years  from  his  death. 
Kaethchen  is  filled  with  the  spirit  of  Grimm's  fairy  tales  in  the 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  111 

best  sense:  natural  fragrancy,  humbleness,  hope,  and  happy  end- 
ing. The  play  is  a  medieval  saga.  Cherubs  protect  the  girl,  inno- 
cence is  finally  exalted,  intriguing  ugliness  and  falsehood  are  un- 
masked. We  feel  Kleist's  love  for  Germany,  no  atrocities  in  this 
play,  if  we  forget  the  count's  threats  with  dog  and  whip.  The 
count  is  rather  a  good  fellow  who  does  not  seem  to  relish  the  girl's 
constant  answers:  "Yes,  my  sublime  lord." — "No,  my  worshipped 
master!"  and  "Gracious  Sir!" 

We  do  not  know  whether  Goethe  saw  this  play  before  Kleist's 
death.  Most  likely  it  would  not  have  changed  his  judgment.  Kaeth- 
chen  is  pining  away,  a  case  of  hysteria  without  any  personality 
aside  from  her  masochistic  eroticism.  Even  Goethe's  Gretchen  was 
much  stronger  a  person,  who  succumbed  to  Faust,  but  first  he 
had  to  conquer  the  resisting  maiden.  At  the  conclusion  of  Kleist's 
play,  our  masochistic  Kaethchen  eats  up  her  man,  figuratively  and, 
unlike  sadistic  Penthesilea,  no  blood  is  shed  and  nobody  dies. 

The  Count  von  Strahl  is  visibly  afraid  of  her,  following  him  like 
his  shadow.  Once  she  jumps  out  of  an  upper  window  and  breaks 
both  her  legs  while  he  is  happening  to  pass  by.  Another  time  he 
shouts:  "Kick  her  out,  I  do  not  want  to  have  anything  to  do  with 
her!"  It  is  all  in  vain,  she  is  his  inescapable  fate. 

Kaethchen  remains  consistent  to  the  very  end.  Shortly  before 
the  wedding,  the  count  apologizes  for  all  the  injuries  he  inflicted 
upon  her  and  he  weeps. 
Replies  Kaethchen  "(with  anxiety)": 

Heavens!  What  is  the  matter?  What  moves  you  so? 
What  have  you  inflicted  upon  me? 

I  know  nothing  of  it.  .  .  . 

Kleist  knew  it:  You  cannot  get  rid  of  women.  Not  of  actual 
women  without,  not  of  one's  own  femininity  within.  He  was  afraid 
of  both  of  them  and  described  them  as  two  extremes  (Penthesilea 
and  Kaethchen)  who  hardly  exist  in  reality.  Kaethchen,  in  all  her 
sweetness  and  poetic  glorification,  cannot  be  a  man's  comrade  like 
a  normal  woman. 

Not  more  than  eight  years  were  granted  to  Kleist,  the  writer, 
between  his  first  literary  attempts  and  his  death.  In  this  short  span 


178  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  time  he  created  his  classics,  plays  and  stories,  all  of  them  born 
under  terrific  pain — his  sublimation. 

Under  sublimation  we  understand  (1)  desexualization  of  an 
undesired  instinct,  plus  (2)  continuous  drain  of  the  instinct  by 
action  acceptable  to  the  ego  of  the  sublimating  individual,  and 
(3)  success  with  the  contemporary  group  in  and  for  which  the 
individual  lives. 

Kleist  met  with  very  little  recognition,  neither  in  terms  of  royal- 
ties nor  of  praise.  Few  creative  spirits  are  strong  enough  to  benefit 
from  their  production  even  without  recognition.  They  rid  them- 
selves of  their  vexing  sense  of  incompleteness  by  the  completeness 
of  their  work.  Kleist  with  his  feminine  sensitivity  was  not  one  of 
those,  except  very  temporarily  towards  the  end  of  his  life,  when 
he  became  able  to  see  and  feel  the  plight  of  his  countrymen. 

He  suffered  with  Germany,  at  that  time  subjugated  by  Napoleon, 
and  helped  kindle  the  spirit  of  liberation.  After  the  two  plays  de- 
scribed, he  wrote  two  patriotic  plays.  One  of  them  (Die  Hermanns- 
schlacht),  an  allegory  on  Napoleon's  conquest  of  Germany  and 
the  coming  fight  for  liberation,  sings  of  the  Roman  general's,  Quin- 
tilius  Varus,  defeat  in  the  forest  of  Teutoburg,  a.d.  9.  Here,  too, 
we  happen  upon  Kleistian  atrocities.  Thusnelda,  Hermann's  wife, 
has  the  Roman  Ventidius  dismembered  and  disemboweled  by  a 
hungry  she-bear,  because  he  had  cheated  her  in  love.  She  learned 
that  Ventidius  intended  to  strip  her  of  her  golden  hair  in  order 
to  send  it  to  his  empress  Livia  in  Rome.  He  even  felt  like  break- 
ing out  her  teeth  for  the  repair  of  the  empress'  bad  denture.  With 
Kleist,  things  are  never  quite  without  a  streak  of  insanity. 

His  last  play,  by  far  his  best  and  one  of  the  best  ever  written 
in  the  German  tongue,  is  a  patriotic  drama,  glorifying  Prussian 
army  discipline  and  the  strictest  fulfillment  of  the  soldier's  duty 
in  the  service  of  his  sovereign.  By  that  time,  Kleist  had  in  his 
active  life  returned  to  his  origin  and  had  applied  successfully  for 
rehabilitation  as  a  commissioned  officer  in  his  king's  army.  He 
united  two  forms  of  sublimation:  to  be  again  the  active  officer 
and  to  glorify  the  Prussian  officer  on  the  stage. 

The  Prince  of  Homburg,  his  last  play,  was  not  shown  in  the 
author's  lifetime  either  and  later  when  it  was  performed  it  could 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  179 

not  have  the  applause  of  his  Junker  class.  These  machine-men 
had  no  sense  for  the  lofty  poetry  of  duty  and  heroism,  the  way 
Kleist  saw  it.  Any  individual  enthusiasm  was  suspicious  and  against 
their  principles.  The  prince  of  this  play  is  sentenced  to  die  by 
Friedrich,  the  Great  Elector,  his  uncle,  because  of  disobeying  an 
order.  The  prince  wins  the  battle  by  his  disobedience,  but  the 
Elector,  as  a  matter  of  principle,  considers  discipline  more  impor- 
tant than  a  battle  won.  Prussian  military  glory  in  quintessence. 
Like  the  older  Junius  Brutus,  whose  son  had  to  die  for  a  similar 
offense,  Friedrich  had  his  nephew  arrested  and  court-martialed. 
The  playwright,  understanding  that  heroic  valor  can  be  coupled 
with  heroic  fear,  shows  us  the  prince  facing  death  with  fear,  ex- 
pressing it  in  frantic  words.  This  was  more  than  Prussian  officers 
could  take.  The  author  was  not  one  of  them,  although  he  was  a 
von  Kleist.  A  Junker,  the  perfect  automaton  of  militarism,  is  never 
afraid  to  die,  and  if  he  is,  he  does  not  admit  it.  The  prince's  heroic 
march  from  fear  to  lofty  acceptance  of  his  fate  in  the  name  of 
Brandenburg's  grandeur  was  not  palatable  to  Brandenburg's  ma- 
chinery. Dostoevsky,  and  before  him  Stendhal — in  his  novel  The 
Red  and  the  Black — could  display  emotions  of  this  kind,  but 
Kleist  was  once  more  rejected  by  his  caste  just  when  he  felt  ready 
to  rejoin  them. 

Soon  after,  Kleist  was  dead.  He  happened  to  meet  Henriette 
Vogel,  a  very  sick  woman,  the  wife  of  an  accountant.  She  was 
not  young,  not  attractive,  her  face  was  disfigured  by  pockmarks. 
Her  disease  was  supposed  to  be  cancer,  she  had  to  expect  painful 
ailment,  she  was  longing  for  death  but  lacked  the  courage  for 
lonesome  suicide.  Kleist,  who  has  been  longing  for  death  all  his 
life  almost  uninterruptedly,  promised  her  on  a  day  of  exaltation 
that  he  would  kill  her  and  himself  whenever  she  would  ask  for  it. 
The  reverse  is  also  possible!  Maybe,  he  made  her  promise  him 
that  she  would  depart  with  him  whenever  he  asked  her.  Anyway, 
Kleist  fell  vehemently  in  love  with  Henriette.  Here  he  saw  the 
solution:  one  cannot  live,  but  one  can  die  with  a  woman!  All 
secret  guilt,  all  anxiety,  all  tension,  vanished;  he  felt  happy  as 
never  before  in  his  life.  All  his  friends  unanimously  bear  witness 
that  never  was  there  a  regular  affair  with  Henriette.  Yet,  outbursts 


180  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

like  the  following  over  a  year  before  their  joint  death  show  the 
flames  of  passion: 

To  Adolfine  Henriette  Vogel 

Berlin,  after  Michaelmas,  1810 
My  Jettchen,  my  heart,  my  darling,  my  little  pigeon,  my  life, 
my  dear,  sweet  life,  light  of  my  life,  my  everything,  my  goods 
and  chattels,  my  castle,  my  soil,  meadows  and  vineyards,  oh  sun 
of  my  life,  sun,  moon  and  stars,  heaven  and  earth,  my  past,  my 
future,  my  bride,  my  girl,  my  dear  friend,  my  love,  my  heart's 
blood,  my  entrails,  apple  of  my  eye,  oh  you  dearest,  how  am  I  to 
call  you?  My  golden  child,  my  pearl,  my  gem,  my  crown,  my 
queen  and  empress.  Sweet  darling  of  my  heart,  highest,  most  cher- 
ished, my  everything  and  anything,  my  wife,  my  wedding,  chris- 
tening of  my  children,  my  tragedy,  my  immortality.  Oh  you  are 
my  better  alter  ego,  my  virtues,  my  merits,  my  hope,  remission 
of  my  sins,  my  future  and  salvation,  daughter  of  heaven,  God's 
own  child,  my  pleader  and  defender,  guardian  angel,  my  cherub 
and  seraph — I  love  you  so!  .  .  .  [My  translation.  F.  W.] 

The  letter  of  a  maniac!  Evidently,  Kleist  was  in  the  midst  of  one 
of  his  numerous  nervous  calamities.  This  time  he  did  not  come 
out  of  it,  but  embraced  the  rapture  of  anticipated  death.  Kleist's 
soul,  after  the  pressure  of  a  life  time  is  at  long  last  freed  of  ever- 
burdening  guilt  and  anxiety.  He  responds  with  the  exuberance  of 
the  letter  quoted  above. 

"November  20th,  1811,  at  two  o'clock  p.m.,  the  couple  ar- 
rived at  an  inn  at  Wann-Lake  near  Potsdam.  The  landlord  re- 
ported that  they  walked  around  the  lake,  ate  and  drank,  chattered 
and  laughed  together.  Light  was  on  in  their  room  all  night  and 
the  valet  saw  them  walk  to  and  fro  all  the  time.  The  twenty-first 
noon  they  sent  a  messenger  with  letters  to  Berlin.  When  they  could 
be  reasonably  sure  that  the  letters  had  reached  their  destination, 
they  ordered  coffee,  rum,  a  table  and  chairs  to  be  brought  to  a 
hill,  about  thirty  feet  from  the  lake.  When  the  waitress  returned 
to  the  inn,  she  heard  the  shots.  Henriette  lay  in  a  pit;  Kleist  had 
shot  her  through  the  left  breast  and,  kneeling  in  front  of  her,  shot 
himself  in  the  brain  through  his  mouth.  .  .  ." 

Much  has  been  written  about  this  double-death,  murder  and 
suicide.5  Some  of  the  explanations  speak  of  Kleist's  economic 


Heinrich  von  Kleist  181 

plight,  actually  just  then  hardly  bothering  him  too  much.  Others 
exalted  Henriette  Vogel,  with  whom  he  died,  to  Dante's  Beatrice, 
a  unio  mystica.  What  does  such  a  union  mean?  We  may  confirm 
his  friend  Ernst  von  Pfuel's  sad  epitaph  that  Kleist  loved  death 
more  than  life.  But  why?  Some  people  are  so  discontented  with 
part  of  their  person  that  they  decide  to  free  themselves  of  this 
part  at  all  cost.  They  wish  to  kill  the  unwanted  component.  The 
idea  is  to  continue  living  with  the  other  part.  However,  when  they 
shoot  at  themselves,  they  naturally  perish,  the  two  parts  being 
inseparable  from  one  another,  psychically  as  well  as  bodily.  Caught 
in  a  tragic  mistake  close  to  insanity  they  kill  themselves. 

Ernest  Jones  emphasizes  the  underlying  wish  to  return  to 
mother;  mother  means  birth,  and  birth  equals  death.  From  dust  we 
come,  to  dust  we  go.  We  add  here  another  approach  which  ex- 
plains suicide — solitary  suicide  as  well  as  "dying  together"  in 
terms  of  bisexuality,  understanding  them  as  an  intrusion  of  the 
primary  function  against  the  inexorable  fact  that  one  cannot  kill 
one  component  and  survive  with  the  other.  The  primary  function, 
immortal  as  a  god,  does  ask:  Why  not?  And  the  secondary  func- 
tion is  silenced — its  objections  are  overruled. 

When  Kleist  met  Henriette,  he  was  able  to  project  his  feminine 
part  into  the  sick  woman  and  kill  it  in  this  shape.  Naturally,  he 
had  to  go  with  her.  The  body  of  the  dead  woman  next  to  his  own 
spoke  out,  saying  to  her  macabre  lover:  Here  lies  the  sex  that 
made  you  suffer,  and  you  he  with  it. 

Let  us  refer  once  more  to  Kleist's  love  letter  to  Henriette.  In 
spite  of  his  Titanic  attempt  to  prove  his  love,  he  cannot  reach 
the  level  of  genuine  "genitality."  All  his  exuberance  cannot  con- 
ceal the  absence  of  normal  heterosexual  feelings.  His  fear  of  his 
own  femininity  killed  him.  His  life  was  dominated  by  homosexual 
panic. 

The  term  homosexual  panic  came  up  during  the  first  world  war, 
when  paroxysmal  fright  was  observed  in  soldiers  and  could  be 
recognized  as  originating  in  latent  homosexuality,  stirred  up  by 
constantly  living  with  men  only.  Ferenczi  divided  the  concept  of 
homosexuality  into  active  and  passive  inversion.  Panic  arises  from 
the  passive  form,  the  fear  of  being  overwhelmed,  raped,  emascu- 


1 82  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

lated.  This  was  Kleist's  case.  The  struggle  against  latent  homo- 
sexuality of  this  kind,  as  we  know  only  too  well,  may  lead  to 
diabolic  (paranoiac)  destruction. 

With  Heinrich  von  Kleist,  the  greatest  son  of  the  race  of  the 
von  Kleists,  the  destruction  took  place  in  fiction.  Other  members 
of  his  family  had  been  producing  "frightfulness"  in  active  life. 
Their  "degenerate"  offspring  died,  unmourned  by  them,  his  death 
hardly  deplored  even  by  his  friends. 


1  His  father  he  never  even  mentioned  in  all  his  life.  We  know  nothing  of 
his  Oedipus  conflict  except  what  can  be  deduced  from  his  later  fiction  and 
plays.  (Hellmut  Kaister  ingeniously  attempted  Kleist's  Oedipus  analysis  in 
his  paper  "Kleist's  Prinz  von  Homburg,"  Imago,  Vol.  XVI,  No.  1,  1940.) 

2  "Struggle  of  a  Homosexual  in  Pre-Hitler  Germany,"  Journal  of  Criminal 
Psychopathology,  Vol.  IV,  No.  3  (Jan.  1943),  pp.  408-423;  "Collective  De- 
fense Mechanisms  Against  Homosexuality,"  The  Psychoanalytic  Review, 
Volume  XXXI,  No.  1  (Jan.  1944);  "Psychoanalysis  and  History — The  Nibe- 
lungs  and  the  Bible,"  The  Psychoanalytic  Quarterly,  Vol.  XV,  No.  1  (Jan. 
1946). 

3 1.  Sadger,  in  a  monograph  on  Kleist  (Wiesbaden,  1910),  expressed  the 
opinion  that  Kleist  suffered  from  compulsive  masturbation  and  consequent 
compunctions.  Around  1910  even  Sadger,  who  was  one  of  the  first  psycho- 
analytic explorers  of  homosexuality,  did  not  know  yet  of  the  explosive 
power  of  latent  homosexuality  as  first  described  in  1913  in  Freud's  classic 
on  the  "Schreber  Case." 

4  A  successful  businessman  had  to  retire,  because  his  surroundings  and 
particularly  one  of  his  partners  became  obnoxious  to  him.  That  partner  had 
a  huge  frame,  an  excellent  set  of  teeth  which  he  bared  broadly  with  every 
grin  and  laugh.  In  such  moments,  my  patient  was  afraid  of  getting  grabbed 
by  the  man,  being  lifted  up  and  sat  down  on  the  desk  like  a  little  child.  Yet 
the  patient  was  that  man's  superior.  Another  shock  the  patient  always  re- 
ceived when  the  errand  boy,  a  small  blond  fellow,  entered  his  room  with  a 
message.  It  was  easy  to  read  from  his  dreams  that  he  was  living  in  homo- 
sexual panic,  but  by  no  means  was  it  easy  to  make  the  man  see  his  complex 
with  equanimity.  , 

5  Cf.  a  paper  by  Ernest  Jones,  "On  Dying  Together  With  Special  Refer- 
ence to  Heinrich  von  Kleist's  Suicide,"  in  Essays  on  Applied  Psychoanalysis 
(International  Psychoanalytic  Library,  Vol.  5,  1911,  and  1923). 


Part  Two 


William  Empson 


Alice  in  Wonderland: 

The  Child  as  Swain 


It  must  seem  a  curious  thing  that  there  has  been 
so  little  serious  criticism  of  the  Alices,  and  that  so  many  critics, 
with  so  militant  and  eager  an  air  of  good  taste,  have  explained 
that  they  would  not  think  of  attempting  it.  Even  Mr.  De  la  Mare's 
book,  which  made  many  good  points,  is  queerly  evasive  in  tone. 
There  seems  to  be  a  feeling  that  real  criticism  would  involve  psy- 
choanalysis, and  that  the  results  would  be  so  improper  as  to  de- 
stroy the  atmosphere  of  the  books  altogether.  Dodgson  was  too 
conscious  a  writer  to  be  caught  out  so  easily.  For  instance  it  is 
an  obvious  bit  of  interpretation  to  say  that  the  Queen  of  Hearts 
is  a  symbol  of  "uncontrolled  animal  passion"  seen  through  the 
clear  but  blank  eyes  of  sexlessness;  obvious,  and  the  sort  of  thing 
critics  are  now  so  sure  would  be  in  bad  taste;  Dodgson  said  it 
himself,  to  the  actress  who  took  the  part  when  the  thing  was  acted. 
The  books  are  so  frankly  about  growing  up  that  there  is  no  great 
discovery  in  translating  them  into  Freudian  terms;  it  seems  only 
the  proper  exegesis  of  a  classic  even  where  it  would  be  a  shock 

185 


186  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

to  the  author.  On  the  whole  the  results  of  the  analysis,  when  put 
into  drawing-room  language,  are  his  conscious  opinions;  and  if 
there  was  no  other  satisfactory  outlet  for  his  feelings  but  the 
special  one  fixed  in  his  books  the  same  is  true  in  a  degree  of  any 
original  artist.  I  shall  use  psychoanalysis  where  it  seems  relevant, 
and  feel  I  had  better  begin  by  saying  what  use  it  is  supposed  to 
be.  Its  business  here  is  not  to  discover  a  neurosis  peculiar  to 
Dodgson.  The  essential  idea  behind  the  books  is  a  shift  onto  the 
child,  which  Dodgson  did  not  invent,  of  the  obscure  tradition  of 
pastoral.  The  formula  is  now  "cMd-become-judge,"  and  if  Dodg- 
son identifies  himself  with  the  child  so  does  the  writer  of  the 
primary  sort  of  pastoral  with  his  magnified  version  of  the  swain. 
(He  took  an  excellent  photograph,  much  admired  by  Tennyson, 
of  Alice  Liddell  as  a  ragged  beggar  girl,  which  seems  a  sort  of 
example  of  the  connection.)  I  should  say  indeed  that  this  ver- 
sion was  more  open  to  neurosis  than  the  older  ones;  it  is  less 
hopeful  and  more  a  return  into  oneself.  The  analysis  should  show 
how  this  works  in  general.  But  there  are  other  things  to  be  said 
about  such  a  version  of  pastoral;  its  use  of  the  device  prior  to 
irony  lets  it  make  covert  judgments  about  any  matter  the  author 
was  interested  in. 

There  is  a  tantalizing  one  about  Darwinism.  The  first  Neander- 
thal skull  was  found  in  1856.  The  Origin  of  Species  (1859)  came 
out  six  years  before  Wonderland,  three  before  its  conception,  and 
was  very  much  in  the  air,  a  pervading  bad  smell.  It  is  hard  to  say 
how  far  Dodgson  under  cover  of  nonsense  was  using  ideas  of 
which  his  set  disapproved;  he  wrote  some  hysterical  passages 
against  vivisection  and  has  a  curious  remark  to  the  effect  that 
chemistry  professors  had  better  not  have  laboratories,  but  was 
open  to  new  ideas  and  doubted  the  eternity  of  hell.  The  1860 
meeting  of  the  British  Association,  at  which  Huxley  started  his 
career  as  publicist  and  gave  that  resounding  snub  to  Bishop  Wil- 
berforce,  was  held  at  Oxford  where  Dodgson  was  already  in  resi- 
dence. He  had  met  Tennyson  in  '56,  and  we  hear  of  Tennyson 
lecturing  him  later  on  the  likeness  of  monkeys'  and  men's  skulls. 

The  only  passage  that  I  feel  sure  involves  evolution  comes  at 
the  beginning  of  Wonderland  (the  most  spontaneous  and  "sub- 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  187 

conscious"  part  of  the  books)  when  Alice  gets  out  of  the  bath  of 
tears  that  has  magically  released  her  from  the  underground  cham- 
ber; it  is  made  clear  (for  instance  about  watering  places)  that  the 
salt  water  is  the  sea  from  which  life  arose;  as  a  bodily  product  it 
is  also  the  amniotic  fluid  (there  are  other  forces  at  work  here); 
ontogeny  then  repeats  phylogeny,  and  a  whole  Noah's  Ark  gets 
out  of  the  sea  with  her.  In  Dodgson's  own  illustration  as  well  as 
Tenniel's  there  is  the  disturbing  head  of  a  monkey  and  in  the  text 
there  is  an  extinct  bird.  Our  minds  having  thus  been  forced  back 
onto  the  history  of  species  there  is  a  reading  of  history  from  the 
period  when  the  Mouse  "came  over"  with  the  Conqueror;  ques- 
tions of  race  turn  into  the  questions  of  breeding  in  which  Dodgson 
was  more  frankly  interested,  and  there  are  obscure  snubs  for  peo- 
ple who  boast  about  their  ancestors.  We  then  have  the  Caucus 
Race  (the  word  had  associations  for  Dodgson  with  local  politics; 
he  says  somewhere,  "I  never  go  to  a  Caucus  without  reluctance"), 
in  which  you  begin  running  when  you  like  and  leave  off  when 
you  like,  and  all  win.  The  subtlety  of  this  is  that  it  supports  Nat- 
ural Selection  (in  the  offensive  way  the  nineteenth  century  did) 
to  show  the  absurdity  of  democracy,  and  supports  democracy  (or 
at  any  rate  liberty)  to  show  the  absurdity  of  Natural  Selection. 
The  race  is  not  to  the  swift  because  idealism  will  not  let  it  be 
to  the  swift,  and  because  life,  as  we  are  told  in  the  final  poem,  is 
at  random  and  a  dream.  But  there  is  no  weakening  of  human 
values  in  this  generosity;  all  the  animals  win,  and  Alice  because 
she  is  Man  has  therefore  to  give  them  comfits,  but  though  they 
demand  this  they  do  not  fail  to  recognize  that  she  is  superior. 
They  give  her  her  own  elegant  thimble,  the  symbol  of  her  labor, 
because  she  too  has  won,  and  because  the  highest  among  you 
shall  be  the  servant  of  all.  This  is  a  solid  piece  of  symbolism;  the 
politically  minded  scientists  preaching  progress  through  "selec- 
tion" and  laissez-faire  are  confronted  with  the  full  anarchy  of 
Christ.  And  the  pretense  of  infantilism  allows  it  a  certain  grim 
honesty;  Alice  is  a  little  ridiculous  and  discomfited,  under  cover 
of  charm,  and  would  prefer  a  more  aristocratic  system. 

In  the  Looking-Glass  too  there  are  ideas  about  progress  at  an 
early  stage  of  the  journey  of  growing  up.  Alice  goes  quickly 


188  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

through  the  first  square  by  railway,  in  a  carriage  full  of  animals 
in  a  state  of  excitement  about  the  progress  of  business  and  ma- 
chinery; the  only  man  is  Disraeli  dressed  in  newspapers — the  new 
man  who  gets  on  by  self-advertisement,  the  newspaper-fed  man 
who  believes  in  progress,  possibly  even  the  rational  dress  of  the 
future. 

...  to  her  great  surprise,  they  all  thought  in  chorus  (I  hope 
you  understand  what  thinking  in  chorus  means — for  I  must  con- 
fess that  /  don't) ,  "Better  say  nothing  at  all.  Language  is  worth  a 
thousand  pounds  a  word." 

"I  shall  dream  of  a  thousand  pounds  tonight,  I  know  I  shall," 
thought  Alice. 

All  this  time  the  Guard  was  looking  at  her,  first  through  a 
telescope,  then  through  a  microscope,  and  then  through  an  opera- 
glass.  At  last  he  said,  "You're  travelling  the  wrong  way,"  and 
shut  up  the  window  and  went  away. 

This  seems  to  be  a  prophecy;  Huxley  in  the  Romanes  lecture  of 
1893,  and  less  clearly  beforehand,  said  that  the  human  sense  of 
right  must  judge  and  often  be  opposed  to  the  progress  imposed 
by  Nature,  but  at  this  time  he  was  still  looking  through  the  glasses. 

But  the  gentleman  dressed  in  white  paper  leaned  forward  and 
whispered  in  her  ear,  "Never  mind  what  they  all  say,  my  dear, 
but  take  a  return  ticket  every  time  the  train  stops." 

In  1861  "many  Tory  members  considered  that  the  prime  minister 
was  a  better  representative  of  conservative  opinions  than  the  leader 
of  the  opposition"  (D.N.B.).  This  seems  to  be  the  double  out- 
look of  Disraeli's  conservatism,  too  subtle  to  inspire  action.  I 
think  he  turns  up  again  as  the  unicorn  when  the  Lion  and  the 
Unicorn  are  fighting  for  the  Crown;  they  make  a  great  dust  and 
nuisance,  treat  the  common-sense  Alice  as  entirely  mythical,  and 
are  very  frightening  to  the  poor  king  to  whom  the  Crown  really 
belongs. 

"Indeed  I  shan't,"  Alice  said  rather  impatiently.  "I  don't  be- 
long to  this  railway  journey  at  all — I  was  in  a  wood  just  now — 
and  I  wish  I  could  get  back  there!" 

When  she  gets  back  to  the  wood  it  is  different;  it  is  Nature  in 
the  raw,  with  no  names,  and  she  is  afraid  of  it.  She  still  thinks 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  189 

the  animals  are  right  to  stay  there;  even  when  they  know  their 
names  "they  wouldn't  answer  at  all,  if  they  were  wise."  (They 
might  do  well  to  write  nonsense  books  under  an  assumed  name, 
and  refuse  to  answer  even  to  that.)  All  this  is  a  very  Kafka  piece 
of  symbolism,  less  at  ease  than  the  preceding  one;  Wonderland  is 
a  dream,  but  the  Loo  king-Glass  is  self-consciousness.  But  both 
are  topical;  whether  you  call  the  result  allegory  or  "pure  non- 
sense" it  depends  on  ideas  about  progress  and  industrialization, 
and  there  is  room  for  exegesis  on  the  matter. 

The  beginning  of  modern  child  sentiment  may  be  placed  at  the 
obscure  edition  of  Mother  Goose's  Melodies  (John  Newbury, 
1760),  with  "maxims"  very  probably  by  Goldsmith.  The  impor- 
tant thing  is  not  the  rhymes  (Boston  boasts  an  edition  of  1719. 
My  impression  is  that  they  improved  as  time  went  on)  but  the 
appended  maxims,  which  take  a  sophisticated  pleasure  in  them. 
Most  are  sensible  proverbs  which  the  child  had  better  know  any- 
way; their  charm  (mainly  for  the  adult)  comes  from  the  unex- 
pected view  of  the  story  you  must  take  if  they  are  not  to  be 
irrelevant. 

Amphion's  Song  of  Eurydice. 

I  won't  be  my  Father's  Jack, 
I  won't  be  my  Father's  Jill, 
I  won't  be  the  Fiddler's  Wife, 
And  I  will  have  music  when  I  will. 

T'other  little  Tune, 
T'other  little  Tune, 
Prithee  Love  play  me 
T'other  little  Tune. 

Maxim. — Those  Arts  are  the  most  valuable  which  are  of  the 
greatest  Use. 

It  seems  to  be  the  fiddler  whose  art  has  been  useful  in  con- 
trolling her,  but  then  again  she  may  have  discovered  the  art  of 
wheedling  the  fiddler.  The  pomp  of  the  maxim  and  the  childish- 
ness of  the  rhyme  make  a  mock  pastoral  compound.  The  pleasure 
in  children  here  is  obviously  a  derivative  of  the  pleasure  in  Mac- 
heath;  the  children  are  "little  rogues." 


190  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Bow  WOW  WOW 
Whose  dog  art  Thou? 
Little  Tom  Tinker's  Dog. 
Bow  wow  wow. 

Tom  Tinker's  Dog  is  a  very  good  Dog;  and  an  honester  Dog 
than  his  Master. 

Honest  ("free  from  hypocrisy"  or  the  patronizing  tone  to  a  social 
inferior)  and  dog  ("you  young  dog")  have  their  Beggar's  Opera 
feelings  here;  it  is  not  even  clear  whether  Tom  is  a  young  vaga- 
bond or  a  child. 

This  is  a  pleasant  example  because  one  can  trace  the  question 
back.  Pope  engraved  a  couplet  "on  the  collar  of  a  dog  which  I 
gave  to  His  Royal  Highness" — a  friendly  act  as  from  one  gentle- 
man to  another  resident  in  the  neighborhood. 

I  am  his  Highness'  dog  at  Kew. 
Pray  tell  me,  sir,  whose  dog  are  you? 

Presumably  Frederick  himself  would  be  the  first  to  read  it.  The 
joke  carries  a  certain  praise  for  the  underdog;  the  point  is  not 
that  men  are  slaves  but  that  they  find  it  suits  them  and  remain 
good-humored.  The  dog  is  proud  of  being  the  prince's  dog  and 
expects  no  one  to  take  offense  at  the  question.  There  is  also  a 
hearty  independence  in  its  lack  of  respect  for  the  inquirer.  Pope 
took  this  from  Sir  William  Temple,  where  it  is  said  by  a  fool:  "I 
am  the  Lord  Chamberlain's  fool.  And  whose  are  you?"  was  his 
answer  to  the  nobleman.  It  is  a  neat  case  of  the  slow  shift  of  this 
sentiment  from  fool  to  rogue  to  child. 

Alice,  I  think,  is  more  of  a  "little  rogue"  than  it  is  usual  to  say, 
or  than  Dodgson  himself  thought  in  later  years: 

loving  as  a  dog  .  .  .  and  gentle  as  a  fawn;  then  courteous — courte- 
ous to  all,  high  or  low,  grand  or  grotesque,  King  or  Caterpillar 
.  .  .  trustful,  with  an  absolute  trust.  .  .  . 

and  so  on.  It  depends  what  you  expect  of  a  child  of  seven. 

.  .  .  she  had  quite  a  long  argument  with  the  Lory,  who  at  last 
turned  sulky,  and  would  only  say,  "I  am  older  than  you,  and 
must  know  better";  and  this  Alice  would  not  allow  without  know- 
ing how  old  it  was,  and  as  the  Lory  positively  refused  to  tell  its 
age,  there  was  no  more  to  be  said. 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  191 

Alice  had  to  be  made  to  speak  up  to  bring  out  the  points — here  the 
point  is  a  sense  of  the  fundamental  oddity  of  life  given  by  the 
fact  that  different  animals  become  grown-up  at  different  ages;  but 
still  if  you  accept  the  Lory  as  a  grownup  this  is  rather  a  pert  child. 
She  is  often  the  underdog  speaking  up  for  itself. 

A  quite  separate  feeling  about  children,  which  is  yet  at  the  back 
of  the  pertness  here  and  in  the  Goldsmith,  since  it  is  needed  if 
the  pertness  is  to  be  charming,  may  be  seen  in  its  clearest  form 
in  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge;  it  is  the  whole  point  of  the  Ode  to 
Intimations  and  even  of  We  are  Seven.  The  child  has  not  yet  been 
put  wrong  by  civilization,  and  all  grownups  have  been.  It  may  well 
be  true  that  Dodgson  envied  the  child  because  it  was  sexless, 
and  Wordsworth  because  he  knew  that  he  was  destroying  his 
native  poetry  by  the  smugness  of  his  life,  but  neither  theory  ex- 
plains why  this  feeling  about  children  arose  when  it  did  and 
became  so  general.  There  is  much  of  it  in  Vaughan  after  the  Civil 
War,  but  as  a  general  tendency  it  appeared  when  the  eighteenth- 
century  settlement  had  come  to  seem  narrow  and  unescapable; 
one  might  connect  it  with  the  end  of  duelling;  also  when  the 
scientific  sort  of  truth  had  been  generally  accepted  as  the  main 
and  real  one.  It  strengthened  as  the  aristocracy  became  more  puri- 
tan. It  depends  on  a  feeling,  whatever  may  have  caused  that  in 
its  turn,  that  no  way  of  building  up  character,  no  intellectual  sys- 
tem, can  bring  out  all  that  is  inherent  in  the  human  spirit,  and 
therefore  that  there  is  more  in  the  child  than  any  man  has  been 
able  to  keep.  (The  child  is  a  microcosm  like  Donne's  world,  and 
Alice  too  is  a  stoic.)  This  runs  through  all  Victorian  and  Romantic 
literature;  the  world  of  the  adult  made  it  hard  to  be  an  artist, 
and  they  kept  a  sort  of  taproot  going  down  to  their  experience 
as  children.  Artists  like  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge,  who  accepted 
this  fact  and  used  it,  naturally  come  to  seem  the  most  interesting 
and  in  a  way  the  most  sincere  writers  of  the  period.  Their  idea 
of  the  child,  that  it  is  in  the  right  relation  to  Nature,  not  dividing 
what  should  be  unified,  that  its  intuitive  judgment  contains  what 
poetry  and  philosophy  must  spend  their  time  laboring  to  recover, 
was  accepted  by  Dodgson  and  a  main  part  of  his  feeling.  He 
quotes  Wordsworth  on  this  point  in  the  "Easter  Greeting" — the 


192  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

child  feels  its  life  in  every  limb;  Dodgson  advises  it,  with  an  in- 
felicitous memory  of  the  original  poem,  to  give  its  attention  to 
death  from  time  to  time.  That  the  dream  books  are 

Like  Pilgrim's  withered  wreaths  of  flowers 
Plucked  in  a  far-off  land 

is  a  fine  expression  of  Wordsworth's  sense  both  of  the  poetry  of 
childhood  and  of  his  advancing  sterility.  And  the  moment  when 
she  finds  herself  dancing  with  Tweedledum  and  Tweedledee,  so 
that  it  is  difficult  to  introduce  herself  afterwards,  is  a  successful 
interruption  of  Wordsworthian  sentiment  into  his  normal  style. 

.  .  .  she  took  hold  of  both  hands  at  once;  the  next  moment 
they  were  dancing  round  in  a  ring.  This  seemed  quite  natural 
(she  remembered  afterwards),  and  she  was  not  even  surprised  to 
hear  music  playing:  it  seemed  to  come  from  the  tree  under  which 
they  were  dancing,  and  it  was  done  (as  well  as  she  could  make 
out)  by  the  branches  rubbing  one  against  another,  like  fiddles 
and  fiddle-sticks.  ...  "I  don't  know  when  I  began  it,  but  some- 
how I  felt  as  if  I  had  been  singing  it  a  long  long  time." 

This  is  presented  as  like  the  odd  behavior  of  comic  objects  such 
as  soup  tureens,  but  it  is  a  directer  version  of  the  idea  of  the 
child's  unity  with  nature.  She  has  been  singing  a  long  long  time 
because  she  sang  with  no  temporal  limits  in  that  imperial  palace 
whence  she  came.  Yet  it  is  the  frank  selfishness  of  the  brothers, 
who  being  little  boys  are  horrid,  are  made  into  a  satire  on  war, 
and  will  only  give  her  the  hands  free  from  hugging  each  other, 
that  forces  her  into  the  ring  with  them  that  produces  eternity. 
Even  here  this  puts  a  subtle  doubt  into  the  eternities  open  to  the 
child. 

For  Dodgson  will  only  go  halfway  with  the  sentiment  of  the 
child's  unity  with  nature,  and  has  another  purpose  for  his  heroine; 
she  is  the  free  and  independent  mind.  Not  that  this  is  contradictory; 
because  she  is  right  about  life  she  is  independent  from  all  the  other 
characters  who  are  wrong.  But  it  is  important  to  him  because 
it  enables  him  to  clash  the  Wordsworth  sentiments  with  the  other 
main  tradition  about  children  derived  from  rogue  sentiment.  (For 
both,  no  doubt,  he  had  to  go  some  way  back;  the  intervening 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  193 

sentiment  about  children  is  that  the  great  thing  is  to  repress  their 
Original  Sin,  and  I  suppose,  though  he  would  not  have  much 
liked  it,  he  was  among  the  obscure  influences  that  led  to  the 
cult  of  games  in  the  public  schools.) 

One  might  say  that  the  Alices  differ  from  other  versions  of 
pastoral  in  lacking  the  sense  of  glory.  Normally  the  idea  of  in- 
cluding all  sorts  of  men  in  yourself  brings  in  an  idea  of  reconciling 
yourself  with  nature  and  therefore  gaining  power  over  it.  The 
Alices  are  more  self-protective;  the  dream  cuts  out  the  real  world 
and  the  delicacy  of  the  mood  is  felt  to  cut  out  the  lower  classes. 
This  is  true  enough,  but  when  Humpty  Dumpty  says  that  glory 
means  a  nice  knockdown  argument  he  is  not  far  from  the  central 
feeling  of  the  book.  There  is  a  real  feeling  of  isolation  and  yet 
just  that  is  taken  as  the  source  of  power. 

The  obvious  parody  of  Wordsworth  is  the  poem  of  the  White 
Knight,  an  important  figure  for  whom  Dodgson  is  willing  to  break 
the  language  of  humor  into  the  language  of  sentiment.  It  takes  off 
Resolution  and  Independence,  a  genuine  pastoral  poem  if  ever 
there  was  one;  the  endurance  of  the  leech-gatherer  gives  Words- 
worth strength  to  face  the  pain  of  the  world.  Dodgson  was  fond 
of  saying  that  one  parodied  the  best  poems,  or  anyway  that  parody 
showed  no  lack  of  admiration,  but  a  certain  bitterness  is  inherent 
in  parody;  if  the  meaning  is  not  "This  poem  is  absurd"  it  must  be 
"In  my  present  mood  of  emotional  sterility  the  poem  will  not  work, 
or  I  am  afraid  to  let  it  work,  on  me."  The  parody  here  will  have 
no  truck  with  the  dignity  of  the  leech-gatherer,  but  the  point  of 
that  is  to  make  the  unworldly  dreaminess  of  the  Knight  more  ab- 
surd; there  may  even  be  a  reproach  for  Wordsworth  in  the  lack 
of  consideration  that  makes  him  go  on  asking  the  same  question. 
One  feels  that  the  Knight  has  probably  imagined  most  of  the  old 
man's  answers,  or  anyway  that  the  old  man  was  playing  up  to  the 
fool  who  questioned  him.  At  any  rate  there  is  a  complete  shift 
of  interest  from  the  virtues  of  the  leech-gatherer  onto  the  childish 
but  profound  virtues  of  his  questioner. 

The  main  basis  of  the  joke  is  the  idea  of  absurd  inventions  of 
new  foods.  Dodgson  was  well-informed  about  food,  kept  his  old 
menus  and  was  winetaster  to  the  College;  but  ate  very  little,  sus- 


194  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

pected  the  High  Table  of  overeating,  and  would  see  no  reason  to 
deny  that  he  connected  overeating  with  other  forms  of  sensuality. 
One  reason  for  the  importance  of  rich  food  here  is  that  it  is  the 
child's  symbol  for  all  luxuries  reserved  for  grownups.  I  take  it 
that  the  fascination  of  Soup  and  of  the  Mock  Turtle  who  sings 
about  it  was  that  soup  is  mainly  eaten  at  dinner,  the  excitingly 
grown-up  meal  eaten  after  the  child  has  gone  to  bed.  When  Alice 
talks  about  her  dinner  she  presumably  means  lunch,  and  it  is 
rather  a  boast  when  she  says  she  has  already  met  whiting.  In  the 
White  Knight's  song  and  conversation  these  little  jokes  based  on 
fear  of  sensuality  are  put  to  a  further  use;  he  becomes  the  scientist, 
the  inventor,  whose  mind  is  nobly  but  absurdly  detached  from 
interest  in  the  pleasures  of  the  senses  and  even  from  "good  sense." 

"How  can  you  go  on  talking  so  quietly,  head  downwards?" 
Alice  asked,  as  she  dragged  him  out  by  the  feet,  and  laid  him  in 
a  heap  on  the  bank. 

The  Knight  looked  surprised  at  the  question.  "What  does  it 
matter  where  my  body  happens  to  be?"  he  said.  "My  mind  goes 
on  working  all  the  same.  In  fact,  the  more  head  downwards  I 
am,  the  more  I  keep  inventing  new  things." 

"Now  the  cleverest  thing  that  I  ever  did,"  he  went  on  after  a 
pause,  "was  inventing  a  new  pudding  during  the  meat-course." 

This  required  extreme  detachment;  the  word  "clever"  has  become 
a  signal  that  the  mind  is  being  admired  for  such  a  reason.  The 
more  absurd  the  assumptions  of  the  thinking,  for  instance  those 
of  scientific  materialism,  the  more  vigorous  the  thought  based 
upon  it.  "Life  is  so  strange  that  his  results  have  the  more  chance  of 
being  valuable  because  his  assumptions  are  absurd,  but  we  must 
not  forget  that  they  are  so."  This  indeed  is  as  near  the  truth  as 
one  need  get  about  scientific  determinism. 

One  reason  for  the  moral  grandeur  of  the  Knight,  then,  is  that 
he  stands  for  the  Victorian  scientist,  who  was  felt  to  have  invented 
a  new  kind  of  Roman  virtue;  earnestly,  patiently,  carefully  (it 
annoyed  Samuel  Butler  to  have  these  words  used  so  continually 
about  scientists)  without  sensuality,  without  self-seeking,  without 
claiming  any  but  a  fragment  of  knowledge,  he  goes  on  laboring 
at  his  absurd  but  fruitful  conceptions.  But  the  parody  makes  him 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  195 

stand  also  for  the  poet,  and  Wordsworth  would  have  been  pleased 
by  this;  he  considered  that  the  poet  was  essentially  one  who  re- 
vived our  sense  of  the  original  facts  of  nature,  and  should  use 
scientific  ideas  where  he  could;  poetry  was  the  impassioned  expres- 
sion of  the  face  of  all  science;  Wordsworth  was  as  successful  in 
putting  life  into  the  abstract  words  of  science  as  into  "the  plain 
language  of  men,"  and  many  of  the  Lyrical  Ballads  are  best  under- 
stood as  psychological  notes  written  in  a  form  that  saves  one  from 
forgetting  their  actuality.  The  Knight  has  the  same  readiness  to 
accept  new  ideas  and  ways  of  life,  such  as  the  sciences  were  im- 
posing, without  ceasing  to  be  good  and  in  his  way  sensible,  as 
Alice  herself  shows  for  instance  when  in  falling  down  the  rabbit 
hole  she  plans  a  polite  entry  into  the  Antipodes  and  is  careful  not 
to  drop  the  marmalade  onto  the  inhabitants.  It  is  the  childishness 
of  the  Knight  that  lets  him  combine  the  virtues  of  the  poet  and  the 
scientist,  and  one  must  expect  a  creature  so  finely  suited  to  life 
to  be  absurd  because  life  itself  is  absurd. 

The  talking  animal  convention  and  the  changes  of  relative  size 
appear  in  so  different  a  children's  book  as  Gulliver;  they  evidently 
make  some  direct  appeal  to  the  child  whatever  more  sophisticated 
ideas  are  piled  onto  them.  Children  feel  at  home  with  animals  con- 
ceived as  human;  the  animal  can  be  made  affectionate  without 
its  making  serious  emotional  demands  on  them,  does  not  want  to 
educate  them,  is  at  least  unconventional  in  the  sense  that  it  does 
not  impose  its  conventions,  and  does  not  make  a  secret  of  the 
processes  of  nature.  So  the  talking  animals  here  are  a  child  world; 
the  rule  about  them  is  that  they  are  always  friendly  though  child- 
ishly frank  to  Alice  while  she  is  small,  and  when  she  is  big  (sug- 
gesting grown-up)  always  opposed  to  her,  or  by  her,  or  both. 
But  talking  animals  in  children's  books  had  been  turned  to  didactic 
purposes  ever  since  Aesop;  the  schoolmastering  tone  in  which  the 
animals  talk  nonsense  to  Alice  is  partly  a  parody  of  this — they  are 
really  childish  but  try  not  to  look  it.  On  the  other  hand,  this  tone 
is  so  supported  by  the  way  they  can  order  her  about,  the  firm  and 
surprising  way  their  minds  work,  the  abstract  topics  they  work 
on,  the  useless  rules  they  accept  with  so  much  conviction,  that  we 
take  them  as  real  grownups  contrasted  with  unsophisticated  child- 


196  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

hood.  "The  grown-up  world  is  as  odd  as  the  child  world,  and  both 
are  a  dream."  This  ambivalence  seems  to  correspond  to  Dodgson's 
own  attitude  to  children;  he,  like  Alice,  wanted  to  get  the  advan- 
tages of  being  childish  and  grown-up  at  once.  In  real  life  this 
seems  to  have  at  least  occasional  disadvantages  both  ways;  one  re- 
members the  little  girl  who  screamed  and  demanded  to  be  taken 
from  the  lunch  table  because  she  knew  she  couldn't  solve  his 
puzzles  (not,  apparently,  a  usual,  but  one  would  think  a  natural 
reaction  to  his  mode  of  approach) — she  clearly  thought  him  too 
grown-up;  whereas  in  the  scenes  of  jealousy  with  his  little  girls' 
parents  the  grownups  must  have  thought  him  quite  enough  of  a 
child.  He  made  a  success  of  the  process,  and  it  seems  clear  that 
it  did  none  of  the  little  girls  any  harm,  but  one  cannot  help  cock- 
ing one's  eye  at  it  as  a  way  of  life. 

The  changes  of  size  are  more  complex.  In  Gulliver  they  are  the 
impersonal  eye;  to  change  size  and  nothing  else  makes  you  feel 
"this  makes  one  see  things  as  they  are  in  themselves."  It  excites 
Wonder  but  of  a  scientific  sort.  Swift  used  it  for  satire  on  science 
or  from  a  horrified  interest  in  it,  and  to  give  a  sort  of  scientific 
authority  to  his  deductions,  that  men  seen  as  small  are  spiritually 
petty  and  seen  as  large  physically  loathsome.  And  it  is  the  small 
observer,  like  the  child,  who  does  least  to  alter  what  he  sees  and 
therefore  sees  most  truly.  (The  definition  of  potential,  in  all  but 
the  most  rigid  textbooks  of  electricity,  contents  itself  with  talking 
about  the  force  on  a  small  charge  which  doesn't  alter  the  field 
much.  The  objection  that  the  small  alteration  in  the  field  might  be 
proportional  to  the  small  force  does  not  occur  easily  to  the  reader. ) 
To  mix  this  with  a  pious  child's  type  of  Wonder  made  science 
seem  less  irreligious  and  gave  you  a  feeling  that  you  were  being 
good  because  educating  a  child;  Faraday's  talks  for  children  on  the 
chemical  history  of  a  candle  came  out  in  1861,  so  the  method 
was  in  the  air.  But  these  are  special  uses  of  a  material  rich  in 
itself.  Children  like  to  think  of  being  so  small  that  they  could  hide 
from  grownups  and  so  big  that  they  could  control  them,  and  to 
do  this  dramatizes  the  great  topic  of  growing  up,  which  both  Alices 
keep  to  consistently.  In  the  same  way  the  charm  of  Jabberwocky 
is  that  it  is  a  code  language,  the  language  with  which  grownups 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  197 

hide  things  from  children  or  children  from  grownups.  Also  the 
words  are  such  good  tongue  gestures,  in  Sir  Richard  Paget's  phrase, 
that  they  seem  to  carry  their  own  meaning;  this  carries  a  hint  of 
the  paradox  that  the  conventions  are  natural. 

Both  books  also  keep  to  the  topic  of  death — the  first  two  jokes 
about  death  in  Wonderland  come  on  pages  3  and  A — and  for  the 
child  this  may  be  a  natural  connection;  I  remember  believing 
I  should  have  to  die  before  I  grew  up,  and  thinking  the  prospect 
very  disagreeable.  There  seems  to  be  a  connection  in  Dodgson's 
mind  between  the  death  of  childhood  and  the  development  of 
sex,  which  might  be  pursued  into  many  of  the  details  of  the  books. 
Alice  will  die  if  the  Red  King  wakes  up,  partly  because  she  is  a 
dream  product  of  the  author  and  partly  because  the  pawn  is  put 
back  in  its  box  at  the  end  of  the  game.  He  is  the  absent  husband 
of  the  Red  Queen  who  is  a  governess,  and  the  end  of  the  book 
comes  when  Alice  defeats  the  Red  Queen  and  "mates"  the  King. 
Everything  seems  to  break  up  because  she  arrives  at  a  piece  of 
knowledge,  that  all  the  poems  are  about  fish.  I  should  say  the 
idea  was  somehow  at  work  at  the  end  of  Wonderland  too.  The 
trial  is  meant  to  be  a  mystery;  Alice  is  told  to  leave  the  court,  as 
if  a  child  ought  not  to  hear  the  evidence,  and  yet  they  expect  her 
to  give  evidence  herself. 

"What  do  you  know  about  this  business?"  the  King  said  to 
Alice. 

"Nothing,"  said  Alice. 

"Nothing  whatever?"  persisted  the  King. 

"Nothing  whatever,"  said  Alice. 

"That's  very  important,"  the  King  said,  turning  to  the  jury. 
They  were  just  beginning  to  write  this  down  on  their  slates,  when 
the  White  Rabbit  interrupted:  "E/mmportant,  your  Majesty 
means,  of  course,"  he  said  in  a  very  respectful  tone,  but  frown- 
ing and  making  faces  as  he  spoke. 

"t/nimportant,  of  course,  I  meant,"  the  King  hastily  said,  and 
went  on  to  himself  in  an  undertone,  "important — unimportant — 
unimportant — important — "  as  if  he  were  trying  which  word 
sounded  best. 

There  is  no  such  stress  in  the  passage  as  would  make  one  feel  there 
must  be  something  behind  it,  and  certainly  it  is  funny  enough  as 


198  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

it  stands.  But  I  think  Dodgson  felt  it  was  important  that  Alice 
should  be  innocent  of  all  knowledge  of  what  the  Knave  of  Hearts 
(a  flashy-looking  lady's  man  in  the  picture)  is  likely  to  have  been 
doing,  and  also  important  that  she  should  not  be  told  she  is  inno- 
cent. That  is  why  the  king,  always  a  well-intentioned  man,  is 
embarrassed.  At  the  same  time  Dodgson  feels  that  Alice  is  right 
in  thinking  "it  doesn't  matter  a  bit"  which  word  the  jury  write 
down;  she  is  too  stable  in  her  detachment  to  be  embarrassed,  these 
things  will  not  interest  her,  and  in  a  way  she  includes  them  all  in 
herself.  And  it  is  the  refusal  to  let  her  stay  that  makes  her  revolt 
and  break  the  dream.  It  is  tempting  to  read  an  example  of  this 
idea  into  the  poem  that  introduces  the  Looking-Glass. 

Come,  hearken  then,  ere  voice  of  dread, 

With  bitter  summons  laden, 
Shall  summon  to  unwelcome  bed 

A  melancholy  maiden. 

After  all  the  marriage  bed  was  more  likely  to  be  the  end  of  the 
maiden  than  the  grave,  and  the  metaphor  firmly  implied  treats 
them  as  identical. 

The  last  example  is  obviously  more  a  joke  against  Dodgson 
than  anything  else,  and  though  the  connection  between  death  and 
the  development  of  sex  is  I  think  at  work,  it  is  not  the  main  point 
of  the  conflict  about  growing  up.  Alice  is  given  a  magical  control 
over  her  growth  by  the  traditionally  symbolic  caterpillar,  a  creature 
which  has  to  go  through  a  sort  of  death  to  become  grown-up, 
and  then  seems  a  more  spiritual  creature.  It  refuses  to  agree  with 
Alice  that  this  process  is  at  all  peculiar,  and  clearly  her  own  life 
will  be  somehow  like  it,  but  the  main  idea  is  not  its  development 
of  sex.  The  butterfly  implied  may  be  the  girl  when  she  is  "out" 
or  her  soul  when  in  heaven,  to  which  she  is  now  nearer  than  she 
will  be  when  she  is  "out";  she  must  walk  to  it  by  walking  away 
from  it.  Alice  knows  several  reasons  why  she  should  object  to 
growing  up,  and  does  not  at  all  like  being  an  obvious  angel,  a 
head  out  of  contact  with  its  body  that  has  to  come  down  from  the 
sky,  and  gets  mistaken  for  the  Paradisal  serpent  of  the  knowledge 
of  good  and  evil,  and  by  the  pigeon  of  the  Annunciation,  too. 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  199 

But  she  only  makes  herself  smaller  for  reasons  of  tact  or  propor- 
tion; the  triumphant  close  of  Wonderland  is  that  she  has  outgrown 
her  fancies  and  can  afford  to  wake  and  despise  them.  The  Looking- 
Glass  is  less  of  a  dream  product,  less  concentrated  on  the  child's 
situation,  and  (once  started)  less  full  of  changes  of  size;  but  it  has 
the  same  end;  the  governess  shrinks  to  a  kitten  when  Alice  has 
grown  from  a  pawn  to  a  queen,  and  can  shake  her.  Both  these 
clearly  stand  for  becoming  grown-up  and  yet  in  part  are  a  revolt 
against  grown-up  behavior;  there  is  the  same  ambivalence  as  about 
the  talking  animals.  Whether  children  often  find  this  symbolism  as 
interesting  as  Carroll  did  is  another  thing;  there  are  recorded  cases 
of  tears  at  such  a  betrayal  of  the  reality  of  the  story.  I  remember 
feeling  that  the  ends  of  the  books  were  a  sort  of  necessary  assertion 
that  the  grown-up  world  was  after  all  the  proper  one;  one  did  not 
object  to  that  in  principle,  but  would  no  more  turn  to  those  parts 
from  preference  than  to  the  "Easter  Greeting  to  Every  Child  that 
Loves  Alice"  (Gothic  type). 

To  make  the  dream  story  from  which  Wonderland  was  elabo- 
rated seem  Freudian  one  has  only  to  tell  it.  A  fall  through  a  deep 
hole  into  the  secrets  of  Mother  Earth  produces  a  new  enclosed 
soul  wondering  who  it  is,  what  will  be  its  position  in  the  world, 
and  how  it  can  get  out.  It  is  in  a  long  low  hall,  part  of  the  palace 
of  the  Queen  of  Hearts  (a  neat  touch),  from  which  it  can  only 
get  out  to  the  fresh  air  and  the  fountains  through  a  hole  frighten- 
ingly  too  small.  Strange  changes,  caused  by  the  way  it  is  nourished 
there,  happen  to  it  in  this  place,  but  always  when  it  is  big  it  cannot 
get  out  and  when  it  is  small  it  is  not  allowed  to;  for  one  thing, 
being  a  little  girl,  it  has  no  key.  The  nightmare  theme  of  the  birth 
trauma,  that  she  grows  too  big  for  the  room  and  is  almost  crushed 
by  it,  is  not  only  used  here  but  repeated  more  painfully  after  she 
seems  to  have  got  out;  the  rabbit  sends  her  sternly  into  its  house 
and  some  food  there  makes  her  grow  again.  In  Dodgson's  own 
drawing  of  Alice  when  cramped  into  the  room  with  one  foot  up 
the  chimney,  kicking  out  the  hateful  thing  that  tries  to  come  down 
(she  takes  away  its  pencil  when  it  is  a  juror),  she  is  much  more 
obviously  in  the  fetus  position  than  in  Tenniel's.  The  White  Rabbit 
is  Mr.  Spooner  to  whom  the  spoonerisms  happened,  an  under- 


200  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

graduate  in  1862,  but  its  business  here  is  as  a  pet  for  children 
which  they  may  be  allowed  to  breed.  Not  that  the  clearness  of  the 
framework  makes  the  interpretation  simple;  Alice  peering  through 
the  hole  into  the  garden  may  be  wanting  a  return  to  the  womb 
as  well  as  an  escape  from  it;  she  is  fond,  we  are  told,  of  taking 
both  sides  of  an  argument  when  talking  to  herself,  and  the  whole 
book  balances  between  the  luscious  nonsense  world  of  fantasy 
and  the  ironic  nonsense  world  of  fact. 

I  said  that  the  sea  of  tears  she  swims  in  was  the  amniotic  fluid, 
which  is  much  too  simple.  You  may  take  it  as  Lethe  in  which 
the  souls  were  bathed  before  rebirth  (and  it  is  their  own  tears; 
they  forget,  as  we  forget  our  childhood,  through  the  repression 
of  pain)  or  as  the  "solution"  of  an  intellectual  contradiction 
through  Intuition  and  a  return  to  the  Unconscious.  Anyway  it 
is  a  sordid  image  made  pretty;  one  need  not  read  Dodgson's  satiri- 
cal verses  against  babies  to  see  how  much  he  would  dislike  a 
child  wallowing  in  its  tears  in  real  life.  The  fondness  of  small 
girls  for  doing  this  has  to  be  faced  early  in  attempting  to  prefer 
them,  possibly  to  small  boys,  certainly  to  grownups;  to  a  man 
idealizing  children  as  free  from  the  falsity  of  a  rich  emotional 
life  their  displays  of  emotion  must  be  particularly  disconcerting. 
The  celibate  may  be  forced  to  observe  them,  on  the  floor  of  a 
railway  carriage  for  example,  after  a  storm  of  fury,  dabbling  in 
their  ooze;  covertly  snuggling  against  mamma  while  each  still 
pretends  to  ignore  the  other.  The  symbolic  pleasure  of  dabbling 
seems  based  on  an  idea  that  the  liquid  itself  is  the  bad  temper 
which  they  have  got  rid  of  by  the  storm  and  yet  are  still  hugging, 
or  that  they  are  not  quite  impotent  since  they  have  at  least  "done" 
this  much  about  the  situation.  The  acid  quality  of  the  style  shows 
that  Dodgson  does  not  entirely  like  having  to  love  creatures  whose 
narcissism  takes  this  form,  but  he  does  not  want  simply  to  forget 
it  as  he  too  would  like  a  relief  from  "ill  temper";  he  sterilizes  it 
from  the  start  by  giving  it  a  charming  myth.  The  love  for  narcis- 
sists itself  seems  mainly  based  on  a  desire  to  keep  oneself  safely 
detached,  which  is  the  essential  notion  here. 

The  symbolic  completeness  of  Alice's  experience  is  I  think  im- 
portant. She  runs  the  whole  gamut;  she  is  a  father  in  getting  down 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  201 

the  hole,  a  fetus  at  the  bottom,  and  can  only  be  born  by  becoming 
a  mother  and  producing  her  own  amniotic  fluid.  Whether  his  mind 
played  the  trick  of  putting  this  into  the  story  or  not  he  has  the 
feelings  that  would  correspond  to  it.  A  desire  to  include  all  sexual- 
ity in  the  girl  child,  the  least  obviously  sexed  of  human  creatures, 
the  one  that  keeps  its  sex  in  the  safest  place,  was  an  important 
part  of  their  fascination  for  him.  He  is  partly  imagining  himself 
as  the  girl  child  (with  these  comforting  characteristics)  partly  as 
its  father  (these  together  make  it  a  father)  partly  as  its  lover — 
so  it  might  be  a  mother — but  then  of  course  it  is  clever  and  de- 
tached enough  to  do  everything  for  itself.  He  told  one  of  his 
little  girls  a  story  about  cats  wearing  gloves  over  their  claws:  "For 
you  see,  'gloves'  have  got  love'  inside  them — there's  none  out- 
side, you  know."  So  far  from  its  dependence,  the  child's  independ- 
ence is  the  important  thing,  and  the  theme  behind  that  is  the 
self-centered  emotional  life  imposed  by  the  detached  intelligence. 

The  famous  cat  is  a  very  direct  symbol  of  this  ideal  of  intellec- 
tual detachment;  all  cats  are  detached,  and  since  this  one  grins  it 
is  the  amused  observer.  It  can  disappear  because  it  can  abstract 
itself  from  its  surroundings  into  a  more  interesting  inner  world; 
it  appears  only  as  a  head  because  it  is  almost  a  disembodied 
intelligence,  and  only  as  a  grin  because  it  can  impose  an  atmos- 
phere without  being  present.  In  frightening  the  king  by  the  allow- 
able act  of  looking  at  him  it  displays  the  soul  force  of  Mr.  Gandhi; 
it  is  unbeheadable  because  its  soul  cannot  be  killed;  and  its  influ- 
ence brings  about  a  short  amnesty  in  the  divided  nature  of  the 
Queen  and  Duchess.  Its  cleverness  makes  it  formidable — it  has 
very  long  claws  and  a  great  many  teeth — but  Alice  is  particularly 
at  home  with  it;  she  is  the  same  sort  of  thing. 

The  Gnat  gives  a  more  touching  picture  of  Dodgson;  he  treats 
nowhere  more  directly  of  his  actual  relations  with  the  child.  He 
feels  he  is  liable  to  nag  at  it,  as  a  gnat  would,  and  the  gnat  turns 
out,  as  he  is,  to  be  alarmingly  big  as  a  friend  for  the  child,  but  at 
first  it  sounds  tiny  because  he  means  so  little  to  her.  It  tries  to 
amuse  her  by  rather  frightening  accounts  of  other  dangerous 
insects,  other  grownups.  It  is  reduced  to  tears  by  the  melancholy 
of  its  own  jokes,  which  it  usually  can't  bear  to  finish;  only  if  Alice 


202  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

had  made  them,  as  it  keeps  egging  her  on  to  do,  would  they  be 
at  all  interesting.  That  at  least  would  show  the  child  had  paid 
some  sort  of  attention,  and  he  could  go  away  and  repeat  them 
to  other  people.  The  desire  to  have  jokes  made  all  the  time,  he 
feels,  is  a  painful  and  obvious  confession  of  spiritual  discomfort, 
and  the  freedom  of  Alice  from  such  a  feeling  makes  her  un- 
approachable. 

"Don't  tease  so,"  said  Alice,  looking  about  in  vain  to  see 
where  the  voice  came  from;  "if  you're  so  anxious  to  have  a  joke 
made,  why  don't  you  make  one  yourself?" 

The  little  voice  sighed  deeply:  it  was  very  unhappy,  evidently, 
and  Alice  would  have  said  something  pitying  to  comfort  it,  "if  it 
would  only  sigh  like  other  people!"  she  thought.  But  this  was 
such  a  wonderfully  small  sigh,  that  she  wouldn't  have  heard  it  at 
all,  if  it  hadn't  come  quite  close  to  her  ear.  The  consequence  of 
this  was  that  it  tickled  her  ear  very  much,  and  quite  took  off  her 
thoughts  from  the  unhappiness  of  the  poor  little  creature. 

"1  know  you  are  a  friend,"  the  little  voice  went  on;  "a  dear 
friend,  and  an  old  friend.  And  you  won't  hurt  me,  though  I  am 
an  insect." 

"What  kind  of  insect?"  Alice  inquired  a  little  anxiously.  What 
she  really  wanted  to  know  was,  whether  it  could  sting  or  not,  but 
she  thought  this  wouldn't  be  quite  a  civil  question  to  ask. 

"What,  then  you  don't — "  the  little  voice  began.  .  .  . 

"Don't  know  who  I  am!  Does  anybody  not  know  who  I  am?"  He 
is  afraid  that  even  so  innocent  a  love  as  his,  like  all  love,  may 
be  cruel,  and  yet  it  is  she  who  is  able  to  hurt  him,  if  only  through 
his  vanity.  The  implications  of  these  few  pages  are  so  painful  that 
the  ironical  calm  of  the  close,  when  she  kills  it,  seems  delightfully 
gay  and  strong.  The  Gnat  is  suggesting  to  her  that  she  would  like 
to  remain  purely  a  creature  of  Nature  and  stay  in  the  wood  where 
there  are  no  names. 

".  .  .  That's  a  joke.  I  wish  you  had  made  it." 

"Why  do  you  wish  /  had  made  it?"  Alice  asked.  "It's  a  very 
bad  one." 

But  the  Gnat  only  sighed  deeply,  while  two  large  tears  came 
rolling  down  its  cheeks. 

"You  shouldn't  make  jokes,"  Alice  said,  "if  it  makes  you  so 
unhappy." 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  203 

Then  came  another  of  those  melancholy  little  sighs,  and  this 
time  the  poor  Gnat  really  seemed  to  have  sighed  itself  away,  for, 
when  Alice  looked  up,  there  was  nothing  whatever  to  be  seen  on 
the  twig,  and,  as  she  was  getting  quite  chilly  with  sitting  so  long, 
she  got  up  and  walked  on. 

The  overpunctuation  and  the  flat  assonance  of  "long — on"  add  to 
the  effect.  There  is  something  charmingly  prim  and  well-meaning 
about  the  way  she  sweeps  aside  the  feelings  that  she  can't  deal 
with.  One  need  not  suppose  that  Dodgson  ever  performed  this 
scene,  which  he  can  imagine  so  clearly,  but  there  is  too  much  self- 
knowledge  here  to  make  the  game  of  psychoanalysis  seem  merely 
good  fun. 

The  scene  in  which  the  Duchess  has  become  friendly  to  Alice 
at  the  garden  party  shows  Alice  no  longer  separate  from  her  cre- 
ator; it  is  clear  that  Dodgson  would  be  as  irritated  as  she  is  by 
the  incident,  and  is  putting  himself  in  her  place.  The  obvious  way 
to  read  it  is  as  the  middle-aged  woman  trying  to  flirt  with  the 
chaste  young  man. 

"The  game  seems  to  be  going  on  rather  better  now,"  she  said. 

"  'Tis  so,"  said  the  Duchess;  "and  the  moral  of  it  is — 'Oh,  'tis 
love,  'tis  love,  that  makes  the  world  go  round!' " 

"Somebody  said,"  whispered  Alice,  "that  it's  done  by  every- 
body minding  their  own  business!" 

"Ah,  well!  It  means  much  the  same  thing,"  said  the  Duchess, 
digging  her  sharp  little  chin  into  Alice's  shoulder  as  she  added, 
"and  the  moral  of  that  is — Take  care  of  the  sense,  and  the 
sounds  will  take  care  of  themselves.'  " 

"How  fond  she  is  of  finding  morals  in  things,"  Alice  thought 
to  herself. 

Both  are  true  because  the  generous  and  the  selfish  kinds  of  love 
have  the  same  name;  the  Duchess  seems  to  take  the  view  of  the 
political  economists,  that  the  greatest  public  good  is  produced  by 
the  greatest  private  selfishness.  All  this  talk  about  "morals"  makes 
Alice  suspicious;  also  she  is  carrying  a  flamingo,  a  pink  bird  with 
a  long  neck.  "The  chief  difficulty  Alice  found  at  first  was  in  man- 
aging her  flamingo  ...  it  would  twist  itself  round  and  look  up 
in  her  face." 


204  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

"I  dare  say  you're  wondering  why  I  don't  put  my  arm  round 
your  waist,"  the  Duchess  said  after  a  pause:  "the  reason  is,  that 
I'm  doubtful  about  the  temper  of  your  flamingo.  Shall  I  try  the 
experiment?" 

"He  might  bite,"  Alice  cautiously  replied,  not  feeling  at  all 
anxious  to  have  the  experiment  tried. 

"Very  true,"  said  the  Duchess:  "flamingoes  and  mustard  both 
bite.  And  the  moral  of  that  is — 'Birds  of  a  feather  flock  to- 
gether.' " 

Mustard  may  be  classed  with  the  pepper  that  made  her  "ill- 
tempered"  when  she  had  so  much  of  it  in  the  soup,  so  that  flamin- 
goes and  mustard  become  the  desires  of  the  two  sexes.  No  doubt 
Dodgson  would  be  indignant  at  having  this  meaning  read  into 
his  symbols,  but  the  meaning  itself,  if  he  had  been  intending  to 
talk  about  the  matter,  is  just  what  he  would  have  wished  to  say. 
The  Duchess  then  jumps  away  to  another  aspect  of  the  selfish- 
ness of  our  nature. 

"It's  a  mineral,  I  think,"  said  Alice. 

"Of  course  it  is,"  said  the  Duchess,  who  seemed  ready  to  agree 
to  everything  that  Alice  said;  "there's  a  large  mustard-mine  near 
here.  And  the  moral  of  that  is — The  more  there  is  of  mine,  the 
less  there  is  of  yours.'  " 

One  could  put  the  same  meanings  in  again,  but  a  new  one  has 
come  forward:  "Industrialism  is  as  merely  greedy  as  sex;  all  we 
get  from  it  is  a  sharper  distinction  between  rich  and  poor."  They 
go  off  into  riddles  about  sincerity  and  how  one  can  grow  into 
what  one  would  seem  to  be. 

This  sort  of  "analysis"  is  a  peep  at  machinery;  the  question  for 
criticism  is  what  is  done  with  the  machine.  The  purpose  of  a  dream 
on  the  Freudian  theory  is  simply  to  keep  you  in  an  undisturbed 
state  so  that  you  can  go  on  sleeping;  in  the  course  of  this  practical 
work  you  may  produce  something  of  more  general  value,  but  not 
only  of  one  sort.  Alice  has,  I  understand,  become  a  patron  saint 
of  the  Surrealists,  but  they  do  not  go  in  for  Comic  Primness,  a  sort 
of  reserve  of  force,  which  is  her  chief  charm.  Wyndham  Lewis 
avoided  putting  her  beside  Proust  and  Lorelei  to  be  danced  on  as 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  205 

a  debilitating  child  cult  (though  she  is  a  bit  of  pragmatist  too); 
the  present-day  reader  is  more  likely  to  complain  of  her  com- 
placence. In  this  sort  of  child  cult  the  child,  though  a  means  of 
imaginative  escape,  becomes  the  critic;  Alice  is  the  most  reason- 
able and  responsible  person  in  the  book.  This  is  meant  as  charm- 
ingly pathetic  about  her  as  well  as  satire  about  her  elders,  and 
there  is  some  implication  that  the  sane  man  can  take  no  other  view 
of  the  world,  even  for  controlling  it,  than  the  child  does;  but  this 
is  kept  a  good  distance  from  sentimental  infantilism.  There  is 
always  some  doubt  about  the  meaning  of  a  man  who  says  he 
wants  to  be  like  a  child,  because  he  may  want  to  be  like  it  in 
having  fresh  and  vivid  feelings  and  senses,  in  not  knowing,  ex- 
pecting, or  desiring  evil,  in  not  having  an  analytical  mind,  in 
having  no  sexual  desires  recognizable  as  such,  or  out  of  a  desire 
to  be  mothered  and  evade  responsibility.  He  is  usually  mixing  them 
up — Christ's  praise  of  children,  given  perhaps  for  reasons  I  have 
failed  to  list,  has  made  it  a  respected  thing  to  say,  and  it  has  been 
said  often  and  loosely — but  he  can  make  his  own  mixture;  Lewis' 
invective  hardly  shows  which  he  is  attacking.  The  praise  of  the 
child  in  the  Alices  mainly  depends  on  a  distaste  not  only  for 
sexuality  but  for  all  the  distortions  of  vision  that  go  with  a  rich 
emotional  life;  the  opposite  idea  needs  to  be  set  against  this,  that 
you  can  only  understand  people  or  even  things  by  having  such  a 
life  in  yourself  to  be  their  mirror;  but  the  idea  itself  is  very  re- 
spectable. So  far  as  it  is  typical  of  the  scientist  the  books  are  an 
expression  of  the  scientific  attitude  (e.g.  the  bread-and-butter  fly) 
or  a  sort  of  satire  on  it  that  treats  it  as  inevitable. 

The  most  obvious  aspect  of  the  complacence  is  the  snobbery. 
It  is  clear  that  Alice  is  not  only  a  very  well-brought-up  but  a  very 
well-to-do  little  girl;  if  she  has  grown  into  Mabel,  so  that  she 
will  have  to  go  and  live  in  that  poky  little  house  and  have  next 
to  no  toys  to  play  with,  she  will  refuse  to  come  out  of  her  rabbit 
hole  at  all.  One  is  only  surprised  that  she  is  allowed  to  meet  Mabel. 
All  through  the  books  odd  objects  of  luxury  are  viewed  rather  as 
Wordsworth  viewed  mountains;  meaningless,  but  grand  and  irre- 
movable; objects  of  myth.  The  whiting,  the  talking  leg  of  mutton, 


206  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  soup  tureen,  the  tea  tray  in  the  sky,  are  obvious  examples. 
The  shift  from  the  idea  of  the  child's  unity  with  nature  is  amusingly 
complete;  a  mere  change  in  the  objects  viewed  makes  it  at  one 
with  the  conventions.  But  this  is  still  not  far  from  Wordsworth, 
who  made  his  mountains  into  symbols  of  the  stable  and  moral 
society  living  among  them.  In  part  the  joke  of  this  stands  for  the 
sincerity  of  the  child  that  criticizes  the  folly  of  convention,  but 
Alice  is  very  respectful  to  conventions  and  interested  to  learn  new 
ones;  indeed  the  discussions  about  the  rules  of  the  game  of  con- 
versation, those  stern  comments  on  the  isolation  of  humanity,  put 
the  tone  so  strongly  in  favor  of  the  conventions  that  one  feels  there 
is  nothing  else  in  the  world.  There  is  a  strange  clash  on  this  topic 
about  the  three  little  sisters  discussed  at  the  Mad  Tea  Party,  who 
lived  on  treacle.  "They  couldn't  have  done  that,  you  know,"  Alice 
gently  remarked,  "they'd  have  been  ill."  "So  they  were,"  said  the 
Dormouse,  "very  ill."  The  creatures  are  always  self-centered  and 
argumentative,  to  stand  for  the  detachment  of  the  intellect  from 
emotion,  which  is  necessary  to  it  and  yet  makes  it  childish.  Then 
the  remark  stands  both  for  the  danger  of  taking  as  one's  guide 
the  natural  desires  ("this  is  the  sort  of  thing  little  girls  would  do  if 
they  were  left  alone")  and  for  a  pathetic  example  of  a  martyrdom 
to  the  conventions;  the  little  girls  did  not  mind  how  ill  they  were 
made  by  living  on  treacle,  because  it  was  their  rule,  and  they 
knew  it  was  expected  of  them.  (That  they  are  refined  girls  is  clear 
from  the  fact  that  they  do  allegorical  sketches.)  There  is  an  ob- 
scure connection  here  with  the  belief  of  the  period  that  a  really 
nice  girl  is  "delicate"  (the  profound  sentences  implied  by  the  com- 
bination of  meanings  in  this  word  are  (a)  "you  cannot  get  a 
woman  to  be  refined  unless  you  make  her  ill"  and  more  darkly 
(b)  "she  is  desirable  because  corpselike");  Dodgson  was  always 
shocked  to  find  that  his  little  girls  had  appetites,  because  it  made 
them  seem  less  pure.  The  passage  about  the  bread-and-butter  fly 
brings  this  out  more  frankly,  with  something  of  the  willful  grim- 
ness  of  Webster.  It  was  a  creature  of  such  high  refinement  that 
it  could  only  live  on  weak  tea  with  cream  in  it  (tea  being  the 
caller's  meal,  sacred  to  the  fair,  with  nothing  gross  about  it). 
A  new  difficulty  came  into  Alice's  head. 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  207 

"Supposing  it  couldn't  find  any?"  she  suggested. 
"Then  it  would  die,  of  course." 

"But  that  must  happen  very  often,"  Alice  remarked  thought- 
fully. 

"It  always  happens,"  said  the  Gnat. 

After  this,  Alice  was  silent  for  a  minute  or  two,  pondering. 

There  need  be  no  gloating  over  the  child's  innocence  here,  as 
in  Barrie;  anybody  might  ponder.  Alice  has  just  suggested  that 
flies  burn  themselves  to  death  in  candles  out  of  a  martyr's  ambi- 
tion to  become  Snapdragon  flies.  The  talk  goes  on  to  losing  one's 
name,  which  is  the  next  stage  on  her  journey,  and  brings  freedom 
but  is  like  death;  the  girl  may  lose  her  personality  by  growing  up 
into  the  life  of  convention,  and  her  virginity  (like  her  surname) 
by  marriage;  or  she  may  lose  her  "good  name"  when  she  loses  the 
conventions  "in  the  woods" — the  animals,  etc.,  there  have  no  names 
because  they  are  out  of  reach  of  the  controlling  reason;  or  when 
she  develops  sex  she  must  neither  understand  nor  name  her  feel- 
ings. The  Gnat  is  weeping  and  Alice  is  afraid  of  the  wood  but 
determined  to  go  on.  "It  always  dies  of  thirst"  or  "it  always  dies 
in  the  end,  as  do  we  all";  "the  life  of  highest  refinement  is  the 
most  deathly,  yet  what  else  is  one  to  aim  at  when  life  is  so  brief, 
and  when  there  is  so  little  in  it  of  any  value."  A  certain  ghoulish- 
ness  in  the  atmosphere  of  this,  of  which  the  tight  lacing  may  have 
been  a  product  or  partial  cause,1  comes  out  very  strongly  in  Henry 
James;  the  decadents  pounced  on  it  for  their  own  purposes  but 
could  not  put  more  death  wishes  into  it  than  these  respectables 
had  done  already. 

The  blend  of  child  cult  and  snobbery  that  Alice  shares  with 
Oscar  Wilde  is  indeed  much  more  bouncing  and  cheerful;  the 
theme  here  is  that  it  is  proper  for  the  well-meaning  and  innocent 
girl  to  be  worldly,  because  she,  like  the  world,  should  know  the 
value  of  her  condition.  "When  we  were  girls  we  were  brought  up 
to  know  nothing,  and  very  interesting  it  was";  "mamma,  whose 
ideas  on  education  are  remarkably  strict,  has  brought  me  up  to 
be  extremely  shortsighted;  so  do  you  mind  my  looking  at  you 
through  my  glasses?"  This  joke  seems  to  have  come  in  after  the 
Restoration  dramatists  as  innocence  recovered  its  social  value; 


208  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

there  are  touches  in  Farquhar  and  it  is  strong  in  the  Beggar's 
Opera.  Sheridan  has  full  control  of  it  for  Mrs.  Malaprop. 

I  don't  think  so  much  learning  becomes  a  young  woman.  .  .  . 
But,  Sir  Anthony,  I  would  send  her,  at  nine  years  old,  to  a  board- 
ing school,  in  order  to  learn  a  little  ingenuity  and  artifice.  Then, 
sir,  she  should  have  a  supercilious  knowledge  in  accounts;  and  as 
she  grew  up,  I  would  have  her  instructed  in  geometry,  that  she 
might  learn  something  of  the  contagious  countries;  but  above  all, 
Sir  Anthony,  she  should  be  mistress  of  orthodoxy,  that  she  might 
not  mis-spell,  and  mispronounce  words  so  shamefully  as  girls 
usually  do;  and  likewise  that  she  might  reprehend  the  true  mean- 
ing of  what  she  is  saying. 

Dodgson  has  an  imitation  of  this  which  may  show,  what  many 
of  his  appreciators  seem  anxious  to  deny,  that  even  Wonderland 
contains  straight  satire.  The  Mock  Turtle  was  taught  at  school 

Reeling  and  Writhing,  of  course,  to  begin  with,  and  then  the 
different  branches  of  Arithmetic — Ambition,  Distraction,  Uglifi- 
cation,  and  Derision  .  .  .  Mystery,  ancient  and  modern,  with 
Seaography;  then  Drawling — the  Drawling-master  used  to  come 
once  a  week;  he  taught  us  Drawling,  Stretching,  and  Fainting  in 
Coils. 

Children  are  to  enjoy  the  jokes  as  against  education,  grownups 
as  against  a  smart  and  too  expensive  education.  Alice  was  not  one 
of  the  climbers  taught  like  this,  and  remarks  firmly  elsewhere  that 
manners  are  not  learned  from  lessons.  But  she  willingly  receives 
social  advice  like  "curtsey  while  you're  thinking  what  to  say,  it 
saves  time,"  and  the  doctrine  that  you  must  walk  away  from  a 
queen  if  you  really  want  to  meet  her  has  more  point  when  said  of 
the  greed  of  the  climber  than  of  the  unself-seeking  curiosity  of 
the  small  girl.  Or  it  applies  to  both,  and  allows  the  climber  a  sense 
of  purity  and  simplicity;  I  think  this  was  a  source  of  charm  whether 
Dodgson  meant  it  or  not.  Alice's  own  social  assumptions  are  more 
subtle  and  all-pervading;  she  always  seems  to  raise  the  tone  of  the 
company  she  enters,  and  to  find  this  all  the  easier  because  the 
creatures  are  so  rude  to  her.  A  central  idea  here  is  that  the  perfect 
lady  can  gain  all  the  advantages  of  contempt  without  soiling  her- 
self by  expressing  or  even  feeling  it. 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  209 

This  time  there  could  be  no  mistake  about  it;  it  was  neither 
more  nor  less  than  a  pig,  and  she  felt  that  it  would  be  quite  ab- 
surd for  her  to  carry  it  any  further.  So  she  set  the  little  creature 
down,  and  felt  quite  relieved  to  see  it  trot  quietly  away  into  the 
wood.  "If  it  had  grown  up,"  she  said  to  herself,  "it  would  have 
made  a  dreadfully  ugly  child,  but  it  makes  rather  a  handsome 
pig,  I  think."  And  she  began  thinking  over  other  children  she 
knew,  who  might  do  very  well  as  pigs,  and  was  just  saying  to 
herself,  "if  only  one  knew  the  right  way  to  change  them — "  when 
she  was  a  little  startled  by  seeing  the  Cheshire  Cat  on  the  bough 
of  a  tree  a  few  yards  off. 

The  Cat  only  grinned  when  it  saw  Alice.  It  looked  good- 
natured,  she  thought:  still  it  had  very  long  claws  and  a  great 
many  teeth,  so  she  felt  that  it  ought  to  be  treated  with  respect. 

The  effect  of  cuddling  these  mellow  evasive  phrases — "a  good 
deal" — "do  very  well  as" — whose  vagueness  can  convey  so  rich 
an  irony  and  so  complete  a  detachment,  while  making  so  firm  a 
claim  to  show  charming  good  will,  is  very  close  to  that  of  Wilde's 
comedy.  So  is  the  hint  of  a  delicious  slavishness  behind  the  prim- 
ness, and  contrasting  with  the  irony,  of  the  last  phrase.  (But  then 
Dodgson  feels  the  cat  deserves  respect  as  the  detached  intelligence 
— he  is  enjoying  the  idea  that  Alice  and  other  social  figures  have 
got  to  respect  Dodgson.)  I  think  there  is  a  feeling  that  the 
aristocrat  is  essentially  like  the  child  because  it  is  his  business 
to  make  claims  in  advance  of  his  immediate  personal  merits;  the 
child  is  not  strong  yet,  and  the  aristocrat  only  as  part  of  a  system; 
the  best  he  can  do  if  actually  asked  for  his  credentials,  since  it 
would  be  indecent  to  produce  his  pedigree,  is  to  display  charm 
and  hope  it  will  appear  unconscious,  like  the  good  young  girl. 
Wilde's  version  of  this  leaves  rather  a  bad  taste  in  the  mouth 
because  it  is  slavish;  it  has  something  of  the  naive  snobbery  of  the 
high-class  servant.  Whistler  meant  this  by  the  most  crashing  of 
his  insults — "Oscar  now  stands  forth  unveiled  as  his  own  'gentle- 
man' " — when  Wilde  took  shelter  from  a  charge  of  plagiarism 
behind  the  claim  that  a  gentleman  does  not  attend  to  coarse  abuse. 

Slavish,  for  one  thing,  because  they  were  always  juggling  be- 
tween what  they  themselves  thought  wicked  and  what  the  society 
they  addressed  thought  wicked,  talking  about  sin  when  they  meant 


210  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

scandal.  The  thrill  of  Pen,  Pencil  and  Poison  is  in  the  covert 
comparison  between  Wilde  himself  and  the  poisoner,  and  Wilde 
certainly  did  not  think  his  sexual  habits  as  wicked  as  killing  a 
friend  to  annoy  an  insurance  company.  By  their  very  hints  that 
they  deserved  notice  as  sinners  they  pretended  to  accept  all  the 
moral  ideas  of  society,  because  they  wanted  to  succeed  in  it,  and 
yet  society  only  took  them  seriously  because  they  were  connected 
with  an  intellectual  movement  which  refused  to  accept  some  of 
those  ideas.  The  Byronic  theme  of  the  man  unable  to  accept  the 
moral  ideas  of  his  society  and  yet  torn  by  his  feelings  about  them 
is  real  and  permanent,  but  to  base  it  on  intellectual  dishonesty  is 
to  short-circuit  it;  and  leads  to  a  claim  that  the  life  of  highest  re- 
finement must  be  allowed  a  certain  avid  infantile  petulance. 

Alice  is  not  a  slave  like  this;  she  is  almost  too  sure  that  she  is 
good  and  right.  The  grownup  is  egged  on  to  imitate  her  not  as  a 
privileged  decadent  but  as  a  privileged  eccentric,  a  Victorian  figure 
that  we  must  be  sorry  to  lose.  The  eccentric  though  kind  and 
noble  would  be  alarming  from  the  strength  of  his  virtues  if  he  were 
less  funny;  Dodgson  saw  to  it  that  this  underlying  feeling  about  his 
monsters  was  brought  out  firmly  by  Tenniel,  who  had  been  trained 
on  drawing  very  serious  things  like  the  British  Lion  weeping  over 
Gordon,  for  Punch.  Their  massive  and  romantic  nobility  is,  I  think, 
an  important  element  in  the  effect;  Dodgson  did  not  get  it  in  his 
own  drawings  (nor,  by  the  way,  did  he  give  all  the  young  men 
eunuchoid  legs)  but  no  doubt  he  would  have  done  so  if  he  had 
been  able.  I  should  connect  this  weighty  background  with  the  tone 
of  worldly  goodness,  of  universal  but  not  stupid  charity,  in  Alice's 
remarks  about  the  pig:  "I  shall  do  my  best  even  for  you;  of  course 
one  will  suffer,  because  you  are  not  worth  the  efforts  spent  on 
you;  but  I  have  no  temptation  to  be  uncharitable  to  you  because 
I  am  too  far  above  you  to  need  to  put  you  in  your  place" — this 
is  what  her  tone  would  develop  into;  a  genuine  readiness  for 
self-sacrifice  and  a  more  genuine  sense  of  power. 

The  qualities  held  in  so  subtle  a  suspension  in  Alice  are  shown 
in  full  blast  in  the  two  queens.  It  is  clear  that  this  sort  of  moral 
superiority  involves  a  painful  isolation,  similar  to  those  involved 
in  the  intellectual  way  of  life  and  the  life  of  chastity,  which  are 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  211 

here  associated  with  it.  The  reference  to  Maud  (1855)  brings  this 
out.  It  was  a  shocking  book;  mockery  was  deserved;  and  its  im- 
proper freedom  was  parodied  by  the  flowers  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Looking-Glass.  A  taint  of  fussiness  hangs  over  this  sort  of 
essay,  but  the  parodies  were  assumed  to  be  obvious  (children  who 
aren't  forced  to  learn  Dr.  Watts  can't  get  the  same  thrill  from 
parodies  of  him  as  the  original  children  did)  and  even  this  parody 
is  not  as  obvious  as  it  was.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  flowers  are 
much  funnier  if  you  compare  them  with  their  indestructible 
originals. 

whenever  a  March-wind  sighs 
He  sets  the  jewel-print  of  your  feet 
In  violets  blue  as  your  eyes  .  .  . 
the  pimpernel  dozed  on  the  lea; 
But  the  rose  was  awake  all  night  for  your  sake, 

Knowing  your  promise  to  me; 
The  lilies  and  roses  were  all  awake  .  .  . 
Queen  rose  of  the  rose-bud  garden  of  girls.  .  . . 

There  has  fallen  a  splendid  tear 

From  the  passion-flower  at  the  gate. 
She  is  coming,  my  dove,  my  dear; 

She  is  coming,  my  life,  my  fate; 
The  red  rose  cries,  "She  is  near,  she  is  near"; 

And  the  white  rose  weeps,  "She  is  late"; 
The  larkspur  listens,  "I  hear,  I  hear"; 

And  the  lily  whispers,  "I  wait." 

"It  isn't  manners  for  us  to  begin,  you  know,"  said  the  Rose, 
"and  I  really  was  wondering  when  you'd  speak."  .  .  .  "How  is  it 
that  you  all  talk  so  nicely?"  Alice  said,  hoping  to  get  it  into  a  bet- 
ter temper  by  a  compliment.  .  .  .  "In  most  gardens,"  the  Tiger- 
Lily  said,  "they  make  the  beds  too  soft,  so  that  the  flowers  are 
always  asleep."  This  sounded  a  very  good  reason,  and  Alice  was 
quite  pleased  to  know  it.  "I  never  thought  of  that  before!"  she 
said.  "It's  my  opinion  you  never  think  at  all,"  the  Rose  said  in 
rather  a  severe  tone.  "I  never  saw  anybody  that  looked  stupider," 
a  Violet  said,  so  suddenly,  that  Alice  quite  jumped;  for  it  hadn't 
spoken  before.  .  .  .  "She's  coming!"  cried  the  Larkspur.  "I  hear 
her  footstep,  thump,  thump,  along  the  gravelwalk!"  Alice  looked 
round  eagerly,  and  found  that  it  was  the  Red  Queen — 

the  concentrated  essence,  Dodgson  was  to  explain,  of  all  gov- 
ernesses. The  Tiger  Lily  was  originally  a  Passionflower,  but  it  was 


212  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

explained  to  Dodgson  in  time  that  the  passion  meant  was  not  that 
of  sexual  desire  (which  he  relates  to  ill-temper)  but  of  Christ;  a 
brilliant  recovery  was  made  after  the  shock  of  this,  for  Tiger-Lily 
includes  both  the  alarming  fierceness  of  ideal  passion  (chaste  till 
now)  and  the  ill-temper  of  the  life  of  virtue  and  self-sacrifice  typi- 
fied by  the  governess  (chaste  always).  So  that  in  effect  he  includes 
all  the  flowers  Tennyson  named.  The  willow  tree  that  said  Bough- 
Wough  doesn't  come  in  the  poem,  but  it  is  a  symbol  of  hopeless 
love  anyway.  The  pink  daisies  turn  white  out  of  fear,  as  the  white 
ones  turn  pink  in  the  poem  out  of  admiration.  I  don't  know  how 
far  we  ought  to  notice  the  remark  about  beds,  which  implies  that 
they  should  be  hard  because  even  passion  demands  the  virtues  of 
asceticism  (they  are  also  the  earthy  beds  of  the  grave) ;  it  fits  in 
very  well  with  the  ideas  at  work,  but  does  not  seem  a  thing  Dodg- 
son would  have  said  in  clearer  language. 

But  though  he  shied  from  the  Christian  association  in  the  com- 
plex idea  wanted  from  "Passion-Flower"  the  flowers  make  another 
one  very  firmly. 

"But  that's  not  your  fault,"  the  Rose  added  kindly:  "you're  be- 
ginning to  fade,  you  know — and  then  one  can't  help  one's  petals 
getting  a  little  untidy."  Alice  didn't  like  this  idea  at  all:  so,  to 
change  the  subject,  she  asked  "Does  she  ever  come  out  here?"  "I 
daresay  you'll  see  her  soon,"  said  the  Rose.  "She's  one  of  the 
thorny  kind."  "Where  does  she  wear  the  thorns?"  Alice  asked 
with  some  curiosity.  "Why,  all  round  her  head,  of  course,"  the 
Rose  replied.  "I  was  wondering  you  hadn't  got  some  too.  I 
thought  it  was  the  regular  rule." 

Death  is  never  far  out  of  sight  in  the  books.  The  Rose  cannot 
help  standing  for  desire  but  its  thorns  here  stand  for  the  ill-temper 
not  so  much  of  passion  as  of  chastity,  that  of  the  governess  or 
that  involved  in  ideal  love.  Then  the  thorns  round  the  Queen's 
head,  the  "regular  rule"  for  suffering  humanity,  not  yet  assumed 
by  the  child,  stand  for  the  Passion,  the  self-sacrifice  of  the  most 
ideal  and  most  generous  love,  which  produces  ugliness  and  ill- 
temper. 

The  joke  of  making  romantic  love  ridiculous  by  applying  it  to 
undesired  middle-aged  women  is  less  to  be  respected  than  the  joke 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  213 

of  the  hopelessness  of  idealism.  W.  S.  Gilbert  uses  it  for  the  same 
timid  facetiousness  but  more  offensively.  This  perhaps  specially 
nineteenth-century  trick  is  played  about  all  the  women  in  the 
Alices — the  Ugly  Duchess  who  had  the  aphrodisiac  in  the  soup 
(pepper,  as  Alice  pointed  out,  produces  "ill-temper")  was  the  same 
person  as  the  Queen  in  the  first  draft  ("Queen  of  Hearts  and 
Marchioness  of  Mock  Turtles")  so  that  the  Queen's  sentence  of  her 
is  the  suicide  of  disruptive  passion.  The  Mock  Turtle,  who  is  half 
beef  in  the  picture,  with  a  cloven  hoof,  suffers  from  the  calf  love 
of  a  turtledove;  he  went  to  a  bad  school  and  is  excited  about  danc- 
ing. (He  is  also  weeping  for  his  lost  childhood,  which  Dodgson 
sympathized  with  while  blaming  its  exaggeration,  and  Alice  thought 
very  queer;  this  keeps  it  from  being  direct  satire.)  So  love  is  also 
ridiculous  in  young  men;  it  is  felt  that  these  two  cover  the  whole 
field  (Dodgson  was  about  thirty  at  the  time)  so  that  granted  these 
points  the  world  is  safe  for  chastity.  The  danger  was  from  middle- 
aged  women  because  young  women  could  be  treated  as  pure  like 
Alice.  Nor  indeed  is  this  mere  convention;  Gilbert  was  relying  on 
one  of  the  more  permanent  jokes  played  by  nature  on  civilization, 
that  unless  somewhat  primitive  methods  are  employed  the  specific 
desires  of  refined  women  may  appear  too  late.  So  far  as  the  chaste 
man  uses  this  fact,  and  the  fact  that  men  are  hurt  by  permanent 
chastity  less  than  women,  in  order  to  insult  women,  no  fuss  that  he 
may  make  about  baby  women  will  make  him  dignified.  Dodgson 
keeps  the  theme  fairly  agreeable  by  connecting  it  with  the  more 
general  one  of  self-sacrifice — which  may  be  useless  or  harmful, 
even  when  spontaneous  or  part  of  a  reasonable  convention,  which 
then  makes  the  sacrificer  ridiculous  and  crippled,  but  which  even 
then  makes  him  deserve  respect  and  may  give  him  unexpected 
sources  of  power.  The  man  playing  at  child  cult  arrives  at  Sex  War 
here  (as  usual  since,  but  the  comic  Lear  didn't),  but  not  to  the 
death  nor  with  all  weapons. 

The  same  ideas  are  behind  the  White  Queen,  the  emotional  as 
against  the  practical  idealist.  It  seems  clear  that  the  Apologia 
(1864)  is  in  sight  when  she  believes  the  impossible  for  half  an 
hour  before  breakfast,  to  keep  in  practice;  I  should  interpret  the 
two  examples  she  gives  as  immortality  and  putting  back  the  clock 


214  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  history,  also  Mass  occurs  before  breakfast.  All  through  the  Wool 
and  Water  chapter  (milk  and  water  but  not  nourishing,  and  gritty 
to  the  teeth)  she  is  Oxford;  the  life  of  learning  rather  than  of 
dogmatic  religion.  Every  one  recognizes  the  local  shop,  the  sham 
fights,  the  rowing,  the  academic  old  sheep,  and  the  way  it  laughs 
scornfully  when  Alice  doesn't  know  the  technical  slang  of  rowing; 
and  there  are  some  general  reflections  on  education.  The  teacher 
willfully  puts  the  egg  a  long  way  off,  so  that  you  have  to  walk  after 
it  yourself,  and  meanwhile  it  turns  into  something  else;  and  when 
you  have  "paid  for"  the  education  its  effects,  then  first  known, 
must  be  accepted  as  part  of  you  whether  they  are  good  or  bad. 
Oxford  as  dreamy  may  be  half  satire  half  acceptance  of  Arnold's 
"adorable  dreamer"  purple  patch  (1865). 

Once  at  least  in  each  book  a  cry  of  loneliness  goes  up  from  Alice 
at  the  oddity  beyond  sympathy  or  communication  of  the  world  she 
has  entered — whether  that  in  which  the  child  is  shut  by  weakness, 
or  the  adult  by  the  renunciations  necessary  both  for  the  ideal  and 
the  worldly  way  of  life  (the  strength  of  the  snobbery  is  to  imply 
that  these  are  the  same).  It  seems  strangely  terrible  that  the  an- 
swers of  the  White  Queen,  on  the  second  of  these  occasions,  should 
be  so  unanswerable. 

By  this  time  it  was  getting  light.  "The  crow  must  have  flown 
away,  I  think,"  said  Alice:  "I'm  so  glad  it's  gone.  I  thought  it  was 
the  night  coming  on." 

Even  in  the  rhyme  the  crow  may  be  fear  of  death.  The  rhymes, 
like  those  other  main  structural  materials,  chess  and  cards,  are 
useful  because,  being  fixed,  trivial,  odd,  and  stirring  to  the  imagi- 
nation, they  affect  one  as  conventions  of  the  dream  world,  and  this 
sets  the  tone  about  conventions. 

"I  wish  I  could  manage  to  be  glad!"  the  Queen  said.  "Only  I 
never  can  remember  the  rule.  You  must  be  very  happy,  living  in 
this  wood,  and  being  glad  whenever  you  like." 

So  another  wood  has  turned  out  to  be  Nature.  This  use  of  "that's  a 
rule"  is  Sheridan's  in  The  Critic;  the  pathos  of  its  futility  is  that 
it  is  an  attempt  of  reason  to  do  the  work  of  emotion  and  escape 
the  dangers  of  the  emotional  approach  to  life.  There  may  be  a 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  215 

glance  at  the  Oxford  Movement  and  dogma.  Perhaps  chiefly  a 
satire  on  the  complacence  of  the  fashion  of  slumming,  the  remark 
seems  to  spread  out  into  the  whole  beauty  and  pathos  of  the  ideas 
of  pastoral;  by  its  very  universality  her  vague  sympathy  becomes 
an  obscure  self-indulgence. 

"Only  it  is  so  very  lonely  here!"  Alice  said  in  a  melancholy 
voice;  and  at  the  thought  of  her  loneliness  two  large  tears  came 
rolling  down  her  cheeks. 

"Oh,  don't  go  on  like  that,"  cried  the  poor  Queen,  wringing 
her  hands  in  despair.  "Consider  what  a  great  girl  you  are.  Con- 
sider what  a  long  way  you've  come  to-day.  Consider  what  o'clock 
it  is.  Consider  anything,  only  don't  cry!"  ■» 

Alice  could  not  help  laughing  at  this,  even  in  the  midst  of  her 
tears.  "Can  you  keep  from  crying  by  considering  things?"  she 
asked. 

"That's  the  way  it's  done,"  the  Queen  said  with  great  decision; 
"nobody  can  do  two  things  at  once,  you  know.  Let's  consider 
your  age  to  begin  with — how  old  are  you?" 

We  are  back  at  once  to  the  crucial  topic  of  age  and  the  fear  of 
death,  and  pass  to  the  effectiveness  of  practice  in  helping  one  to 
believe  the  impossible;  for  example  that  the  aging  Queen  is  so  old 
that  she  would  be  dead.  The  helplessness  of  the  intellect,  which 
claims  to  rule  so  much,  is  granted  under  cover  of  the  counterclaim 
that  since  it  makes  you  impersonal  you  can  forget  pain  with  it;  we 
do  not  believe  this  about  the  Queen  chiefly  because  she  has  not 
enough  understanding  of  other  people.  The  jerk  of  the  return  to 
age,  and  the  assumption  that  this  is  a  field  for  polite  lying,  make 
the  work  of  the  intellect  only  the  game  of  conversation.  Humpty 
Dumpty  has  the  same  embarrassing  trick  for  arguing  away  a 
suggestion  of  loneliness.  Indeed  about  all  the  rationalism  of  Alice 
and  her  acquaintances  there  hangs  a  suggestion  that  there  are  after 
all  questions  of  pure  thought,  academic  thought  whose  altruism  is 
recognized  and  paid  for,  thought  meant  only  for  the  upper  classes 
to  whom  the  conventions  are  in  any  case  natural  habit;  like  that 
suggestion  that  the  scientist  is  sure  to  be  a  gentleman  and  has 
plenty  of  space  which  is  the  fascination  of  Kew  Gardens. 

The  Queen  is  a  very  inclusive  figure.  "Looking  before  and  after" 
with  the  plaintive  tone  of  universal  altruism  she  lives  chiefly  back- 


216  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

wards,  in  history;  the  necessary  darkness  of  growth,  the  mysteries 
of  self-knowledge,  the  self-contradictions  of  the  will,  the  antinomies 
of  philosophy,  the  very  Looking-Glass  itself,  impose  this;  nor  is  it 
mere  weakness  to  attempt  to  resolve  them  only  in  the  direct  im- 
pulse of  the  child.  Gathering  the  more  dream  rushes  her  love  for 
man  becomes  the  more  universal,  herself  the  more  like  a  porcupine. 
Knitting  with  more  and  more  needles  she  tries  to  control  life  by  a 
more  and  more  complex  intellectual  apparatus — the  "progress"  of 
Herbert  Spencer;  any  one  shelf  of  the  shop  is  empty,  but  there  is 
always  something  very  interesting — the  "atmosphere"  of  the  place 
is  so  interesting — which  moves  up  as  you  look  at  it  from  shelf  to 
shelf;  there  is  jam  only  in  the  future  and  our  traditional  past,  and 
the  test  made  by  Alice,  who  sent  value  through  the  ceiling  as  if  it 
were  quite  used  to  it,  shows  that  progress  can  never  reach  value, 
because  its  habitation  and  name  is  heaven.  The  Queen's  scheme  of 
social  reform,  which  is  to  punish  those  who  are  not  respectable 
before  their  crimes  are  committed,  seems  to  be  another  of  these 
jokes  about  progress: 

"But  if  you  hadn't  done  them,"  the  Queen  said,  "that  would 
have  been  better  still;  better,  and  better,  and  better!"  Her  voice 
went  higher  with  each  "better"  till  it  got  to  quite  a  squeak  at  last. 

There  is  a  similar  attack  in  the  Walrus  and  the  Carpenter,  who  are 
depressed  by  the  spectacle  of  unimproved  nature  and  engage  in 
charitable  work  among  oysters.  The  Carpenter  is  a  Castle  and  the 
Walrus,  who  could  eat  so  many  more  because  he  was  crying  behind 
his  handkerchief,  was  a  Bishop,  in  the  scheme  at  the  beginning  of 
the  book.  But  in  saying  so  one  must  be  struck  by  the  depth  at  which 
the  satire  is  hidden;  the  queerness  of  the  incident  and  the  charac- 
ters takes  on  a  Wordsworthian  grandeur  and  aridity,  and  the  land- 
scape defined  by  the  tricks  of  facetiousness  takes  on  the  remote  and 
staring  beauty  of  the  ideas  of  the  insane.  It  is  odd  to  find  that 
Tenniel  went  on  to  illustrate  Poe  in  the  same  manner;  Dodgson 
is  often  doing  what  Poe  wanted  to  do,  and  can  do  it  the  more 
easily  because  he  can  safely  introduce  the  absurd.  The  Idiot  Boy  of 
Wordsworth  is  too  milky  a  moonlit  creature  to  be  at  home  with 
Nature  as  she  was  deplored  by  the  Carpenter,  and  much  of  the 


Alice  in  Wonderland:  The  Child  as  Swain  217 

technique  of  the  rudeness  of  the  Mad  Hatter  has  been  learned  from 
Hamlet.  It  is  the  ground  bass  of  this  kinship  with  insanity,  I  think, 
that  makes  it  so  clear  that  the  books  are  not  trifling,  and  the  cool 
courage  with  which  Alice  accepts  madmen  that  gives  them  their 
strength. 

This  talk  about  the  snobbery  of  the  Alices  may  seem  a  mere 
attack,  but  a  little  acid  may  help  to  remove  the  slime  with  which 
they  have  been  encrusted.  The  two  main  ideas  behind  the  snob- 
bery, that  virtue  and  intelligence  are  alike  lonely,  and  that  good 
manners  are  therefore  important  though  an  absurd  confession  of 
human  limitations,  do  not  depend  on  a  local  class  system;  they 
would  be  recognized  in  a  degree  by  any  tolerable  society.  And  if 
in  a  degree  their  opposites  must  also  be  recognized,  so  they  are 
here;  there  are  solid  enough  statements  of  the  shams  of  altruism 
and  convention  and  their  horrors  when  genuine;  it  is  the  forces 
of  this  conflict  that  make  a  clash  violent  enough  to  end  both  the 
dreams.  In  Wonderland  this  is  mysteriously  mixed  up  with  the  trial 
of  the  Knave  of  Hearts,  the  thief  of  love,  but  at  the  end  of  the 
second  book  the  symbolism  is  franker  and  more  simple.  She  is  a 
grown  queen  and  has  acquired  the  conventional  dignities  of  her 
insane  world;  suddenly  she  admits  their  insanity,  refuses  to  be  a 
grown  queen,  and  destroys  them. 

"I  can't  stand  this  any  longer!"  she  cried,  as  she  seized  the 
table-cloth  in  both  hands:  one  good  pull,  and  plates,  dishes, 
guests,  and  candles  came  crashing  down  together  in  a  heap  on 
the  floor. 

The  guests  are  inanimate  and  the  crawling  self-stultifying  machin- 
ery of  luxury  has  taken  on  a  hideous  life  of  its  own.  It  is  the  High 
Table  of  Christ  Church  that  we  must  think  of  here.  The  gentleman 
is  not  the  slave  of  his  conventions  because  at  need  he  could  destroy 
them;  and  yet,  even  if  he  did  this,  and  all  the  more  because  he 
does  not,  he  must  adopt  while  despising  it  the  attitude  to  them  of 
the  child. 

1  It  was  getting  worse  when  the  Alices  were  written.  In  what  Mr.  Hugh 
Kingsmill  calls  "the  fatal  fifties"  skirts  were  so  big  that  the  small  waist  was 
not  much  needed  for  contrast,  so  it  can't  be  blamed  for  the  literary  works 
of  that  decade. 


Geoffrey  Gorer 


The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen 


Everybody,  or  at  any  rate  nearly  everybody, 
who  is  fond  of  English  literature  is  devoted  to  the  works  of  Jane 
Austen;  that  is  pretty  generally  agreed.  It  is  so  generally  agreed  that 
it  never  seems  to  have  occurred  to  anybody  to  inquire  why  these 
"pictures  of  domestic  life  in  country  villages,"  to  use  her  own 
phrase,  are  able  to  excite  such  passionate  adoration,  or,  if  the  in- 
quiry is  made,  it  is  answered  in  terms  of  technique  and  observation. 
But  I  do  not  consider  this  answer  adequate — after  all,  the  almost 
unread  Miss  Emily  Eden  was  not  lacking  in  either  of  these  quali- 
ties— and  I  wish  to  suggest  that  there  are  profounder  reasons  for 
the  excessive  love  which  she  excites  in  so  many  of  her  admirers 
from  Scott  and  Macaulay  to  Rudyard  Kipling  and  Sir  John  Squire. 
The  adoration  of  Miss  Austen  has  at  times  nearly  approached  a 
cult — the  sect  of  "Janeites" — and  I  propose  to  try  to  uncover  the 
mystery  behind  the  worship.  The  mystery  is  no  unfamiliar  one. 

It  is  necessary  to  mention  a  few  dates.  Jane  Austen  was  born  in 
1775,  the  youngest  daughter  of  a  country  clergyman;  her  father 
died  in  1805,  and  she  then  lived  with  her  mother  till  her  own  death 
in  1817.  She  never  married.  In  her  correspondence  she  appears  to 
218 


The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen  219 

have  been  devoted  to  her  brothers  and  sisters,  particularly  her  next 
eldest  sister  Cassandra:  two  of  her  brothers  were  in  the  navy.  She 
started  writing  very  young,  and  the  first  motive  which  turned  her  to 
writing  was,  as  is  clearly  shown  by  the  juvenile  Love  and  Friend- 
ship, satire,  or,  to  use  the  contemporary  phrase,  debunking.  During 
Jane  Austen's  youth  the  Gothic  novel,  with  its  exaggerated  emo- 
tions and  incredible  occurrences,  was  at  the  height  of  its  fantastic 
popularity.  At  that  period  as  at  all  others  in  later  European  history, 
the  emotions  depicted  in  the  most  popular  poetry  and  fiction  of  the 
time  were  reflected  by  the  majority  of  their  ardent  readers.  (Until 
Hemingway  and  Scott  Fitzgerald  wrote,  the  behavior  of  "the  lost 
generation"  was  not  stereotyped. )  The  Gothic  novel  and  the  con- 
temporary poetry — Byron  and  Scott — evoked  greatly  enhanced 
and  self-indulged  sensibility  and  poignant  feeling.  Jane  Austen  was 
temperamentally  unable  to  feel  these  violent  emotions  and,  as  a 
realist,  did  not  believe  they  were  genuine.  An  example  of  her  early 
attitude  occurs  in  Love  and  Friendship,  in  which  the  heroine  ad- 
vises the  narrator  that,  when  she  is  overcome  by  powerful  emo- 
tions, she  should  choose  to  run  mad,  rather  than  to  go  into  fainting 
fits;  the  reason  being  that  with  running  mad  one  gets  some  health- 
ful exercise,  whereas  with  continuous  fainting  one  is  likely  to  fall 
on  damp  places  and  catch  pneumonia. 

It  was  in  this  spirit  of  mockery  that  she  wrote  Love  and  Friend- 
ship, and  to  a  great  extent  Northanger  Abbey  which  was  written  in 
1798;  it  was  also  one  of  the  primary  motivations  in  writing  Sense 
and  Sensibility,  which  was  begun  in  1797,  but  from  internal  evi- 
dence, was  almost  completely  revised  before  it  was  published  in 
1813.  Pride  and  Prejudice,  which  we  know  to  have  been  com- 
pletely recast  from  the  first  draft  made  in  1796,  was  published 
the  same  year.  Mansfield  Park  was  written  in  1812-13,  Emma,  in 
1814-15,  and  Persuasion  in  1815-16.  The  order  in  which  the 
books  were  written  is  important  to  my  thesis. 

Northanger  Abbey  is  to  a  very  great  extent  satirical,  and  much 
of  the  plot  springs  from  the  originals  it  is  debunking;  it  shows 
certain  features  in  common  with  the  other  novels,  but  I  do  not 
propose  to  study  it  in  detail.  Persuasion,  the  last  novel  of  all,  is  so 
important  as  to  need  separate  treatment.  At  the  moment  I  wish 


220  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

to  discuss  the  four  central  novels,  Sense  and  Sensibility,  Pride  and 
Prejudice,  Mansfield  Park,  Emma,  to  give  the  order  in  which  they 
were  written  and  in  which  I  shall  refer  to  them. 

These  four  novels,  though  differing  in  details  and  characters, 
have  all  the  same  central  theme;  and  it  is  this  theme  which  I  call 
Jane  Austen's  myth.  All  four  novels  are  about  young  women 
(Marianne,  Elizabeth,  Fanny,  Emma)  who  are  made  love  to  by, 
but  finally  reject,  the  Charming  but  Worthless  lover  (Willoughby, 
Wickham,  Crawford,  Frank  Churchill)  and  finally  marry  a  man 
whom  they  esteem  and  admire  rather  than  love  passionately  (Colo- 
nel Brandon,  Darcy,  Edmund  Bertram,  Mr.  Knightley).  But  the 
similarities  in  the  novels  do  not  end  here;  in  all  except  the  last  to 
be  written,  Emma,  when  Mrs.  Woodhouse  is  dead  before  the  novel 
opens,  the  heroine's  misfortunes  and  discomforts  are  to  a  very 
great  extent  due  to  the  folly,  stupidity  or  malice  of  her  mother 
(Mrs.  Dashwood  encourages  Marianne  in  her  romanticism;  Mrs. 
Bennet's  behavior  is  directly  responsible  for  Elizabeth's  and  Jane's 
unhappiness  (ch.  35)  and,  it  is  suggested,  for  Lydia's  elopement; 
poor  Fanny  Price  has  no  less  than  three  stupid,  incompetent  and 
spiteful  mothers — Mrs.  Price,  Aunt  Bertram  and  Aunt  Norris — and, 
though  Emma  is  motherless,  her  dangerous  flirtation  with  Frank 
Churchill  is  forwarded  by  her  mother-surrogate,  Mrs.  Weston).  As 
in  three  out  of  four  of  the  novels  the  heroine  actively  dislikes  her 
mother,  so,  in  three  out  of  four  of  the  novels  she  marries  a  man 
who  stands  in  an  almost  paternal  relationship  to  her.  Marianne 
Dashwood  finally  marries  Colonel  Brandon  of  whom  she  says 
(ch.  7)  "He  is  old  enough  to  be  my  father.  .  .  .  When  is  a  man  to 
be  safe  from  such  wit,  if  age  and  infirmity  will  not  protect  him?" 
Fanny  Price  marries  Edmund  Bertram  who  had  been  "loving, 
guiding,  protecting  her  as  he  had  been  doing  ever  since  she  was  ten 
years  old,  her  mind  in  so  great  a  degree  formed  by  his  care  .  .  . 
etc."  (ch.  48).  It  is  true  that  Miss  Austen  insists  that  their  relation- 
ship is  that  of  brother  and  sister  (ch.  37,  46),  but  it  is  an  unusual 
fraternal  relationship,  with  protection  entirely  on  one  side  and  re- 
spect on  the  other.  Mr.  Knightley  stands  in  a  quite  overtly  paternal 
relationship  to  Emma;  indeed,  with  his  feebleness  and  hypochon- 
dria Mr.  Woodhouse  seems  more  like  the  grandfather  than  the 


The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen  221 

father  of  a  young  woman.  Mr.  Knightley  on  the  other  hand  fills 
every  office  of  a  father;  "from  family  attachment  and  habit,  and 
through  excellence  of  mind,  he  had  loved  her  and  watched  over 
her  from  a  girl,  with  an  endeavor  to  improve  her,  and  an  anxiety 
for  her  doing  right,  which  no  other  creature  had  at  all  shared" 
(ch.  48).  He  scolds  her  and  gives  her  advice  (e.g.  ch.  1,  43)  and 
watches  the  progress  of  her  studies  (ch.  5),  and,  when  she  dances, 
stays  with  the  other  parents  who  watch  the  young  people  amusing 
themselves  (ch.  38).  It  is  the  most  obvious  of  the  identifications. 

Elizabeth,  in  Pride  and  Prejudice,  does,  it  is  true,  marry  young 
Mr.  Darcy,  but  has  anybody,  even  the  author,  been  convinced 
that  she  loved  him,  or  that  she  entertained  any  feelings  warmer 
than  respect  or  gratitude?  Surely  her  own  remark,  that  she  must 
date  her  affection  "from  my  first  seeing  his  beautiful  grounds  at 
Pemberley"  (ch.  59),  represents  the  psychological  truth.  More- 
over, there  are  other  passages  in  which  Miss  Austen  reveals  the 
type  of  emotion  which  connected  Elizabeth  and  Darcy.  A  couple 
of  days  before  she  does  finally  accept  him  Elizabeth  muses  to 
herself  "If  he  is  satisfied  with  only  regretting  me,  when  he  might 
have  obtained  my  affections  and  hand  I  shall  soon  cease  to  regret 
him  at  all"  (ch.  57).  The  really  warm  relationship  in  the  novel 
is  that  between  Elizabeth  and  her  father,  Mr.  Bennet;  Elizabeth 
is  his  favorite  daughter  (ch.  1)  and  they  are  able  to  share  in 
private  intimate  jokes  from  which  even  the  rest  of  the  family  are 
excluded;  they  are  so  attached  that,  when  Elizabeth  plans  to  go 
away  for  a  short  visit  "The  only  pain  was  in  leaving  her  father, 
who  would  certainly  miss  her,  and  who,  when  it  came  to  the 
point,  so  little  liked  her  going,  that  he  told  her  to  write  to  him, 
and  almost  promised  to  answer  her  letter"  (ch.  27).  And  one  of 
the  chief  consolations  of  her  marriage  with  Darcy  was  that  Mr. 
Bennet  "delighted  in  going  to  Pemberley,  especially  when  he  was 
least  expected"  (ch.  61). 

If  these  various  features  had  occurred  in  only  one  novel  they 
could  be  set  down  to  inventiveness;  their  fourfold  repetition  shows 
that  they  were  overwhelmingly  important,  at  any  rate  for  the  au- 
thor. This  central  myth — the  girl  who  hates  and  despises  her 
mother  and  marries  a  father-surrogate — is  not  the  exclusive  in- 


222  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

vention  of  Miss  Austen;  though,  until  she  wrote,  the  sexes  had 
been  reversed  and  the  subject  considered  fitter  for  tragedy  than 
comedy.  The  most  famous  example  is  Sophocles'  Oedipus  Rex. 
For  psychoanalysts,  there  will  be  little  cause  for  surprise  at  the 
ease  with  which  most  of  her  readers  so  passionately  identify  with 
her  heroines. 

I  have  seen  it  suggested  somewhere  that  Bernard  Shaw  owes 
much  of  his  success  to  the  fact  that  he  refuses  to  take  love  seri- 
ously, and  Mr.  Maugham  has  written  that  "the  English  are  not  a 
sexual  nation,  and  you  cannot  easily  persuade  them  that  a  man 
will  sacrifice  anything  important  for  love."  If  these  diagnoses  are 
true,  there  is  an  added  reason  for  Miss  Austen's  popularity.  There 
has  probably  never  been  a  more  ferocious  debunker  of  passionate 
or  sexual  love  than  Jane  Austen  in  the  four  central  novels.  The 
Charming  but  Worthless  lovers  in  the  four  central  novels  have 
already  been  listed;  the  same  stereotype  occurs  in  N onhanger  Ab- 
bey (Captain  Tilney:  Mrs.  Allen  is  a  Silly  Mother  in  the  same 
book)  and  in  Persuasion  (W.  W.  Elliot).  In  four  of  the  books 
the  heroine  is  attracted  momentarily  by  this  stereotype,  while  in 
two  (Mansfield  Park,  Persuasion)  she  resists  their  insidious  (sex- 
ual) charm;  but  in  all  sexual  love  is  portrayed  as  a  snare  and  a 
sham,  leading  only  to  guilt,  misery,  and  cooled  affections. 

Persuasion,  the  last  of  the  novels  to  be  written,  is  in  remark- 
able contrast  to  the  other  four.  The  central  figures  of  the  myth 
are  still  present,  but  their  roles  are  considerably  modified.  There 
are  two  "mothers,"  one  dead  before  the  story  opens  but  stated  to 
have  every  good  quality  (Emma's  mother  was  completely  charac- 
terless); and  although  the  other  "mother,"  Lady  Russell,  is,  as 
usual,  the  chief  cause  of  the  heroine's  unhappiness,  the  author 
treats  her  far  more  leniently  than  she  had  done  before,  even  sug- 
gesting that  there  may  be  some  excuses  for  her  behavior.  There 
are  two  Charming  lovers,  one,  W.  W.  Elliot,  the  Worthless  stereo- 
type of  the  earlier  novels;  but  though  the  heroine,  Anne,  had,  ten 
years  before  the  story  opened,  dismissed  the  other  lover,  Captain 
Wentworth,  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  all  Jane  Austen's  heroines 
dismiss  all  their  Charming  lovers,  the  sentiments  he  had  excited 
had  not  disappeared  with  his  dismissal;  she  still  loves  him  and 


The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen  223 

at  the  end  of  the  book  marries  him.  But  it  is  the  treatment  of  the 
father  which  is  the  most  revolutionary;  Sir  Walter  Elliot,  alone 
of  the  fathers  in  the  six  novels,  is  portrayed  unmercifully  as  a  vain, 
proud,  stupid  and  endlessly  selfish  man;  it  is  the  most  bitterly 
drawn  character  in  all  the  novels,  untempered  by  affection  or  sym- 
pathetic amusement.  Not  even  the  numerous  "mothers"  are  treated 
with  such  active  dislike. 

Coming  after  the  obsessive  portrayal  of  the  "father-daughter" 
relationships  in  the  other  novels,  this  sudden  reversal  is  the  more 
surprising.  Indeed,  it  seems  to  suggest  the  possibility  of  a  deeply 
personal  motivation.  Although  it  is  impossible  to  know  the  child- 
hood history  of  Jane  Austen  or  to  do  more  than  guess  at  what  her 
character  was,  I  suggest  that  in  her  youth,  probably  1797  or  1798, 
just  before  writing  Sense  and  Sensibility,  Jane  Austen  did  in  fact 
refuse  a  Charming  lover;  this  may  have  been  at  the  persuasion  of 
her  father  or  because  she  could  not  support  the  idea  of  leaving 
him  alone,  and  could  not  break  the  bond  which  bound  them  so 
closely  to  one  another.  Through  the  intervening  years  she  wrote 
and  rewrote  her  personal  dilemma  proving  to  herself  that  all  had 
been  for  the  best,  even  though  meanwhile  father  had  died,  leaving 
her  alone  with  her  mother  (and  the  novels  show  her  belief  was 
that  the  only  good  mothers  were  dead  mothers). 

We  know  very  little  about  the  personal  motives  which  impel 
writers  of  imaginative  works  to  develop  their  fictions;  but  I  should 
like  to  suggest  that,  at  least  in  Jane  Austen's  case,  the  central 
fantasy  corresponds  very  closely  to  the  manifest  content  of  a 
dream;  and  I  should  further  like  to  suggest  that  the  elaboration 
of  the  fantasy  into  a  novel  corresponds  in  some  way  to  the  ana- 
lytic interpretation  of  a  dream  and  the  working  through  of  the 
dilemma  that  the  dream  represents.  In  this  connection  it  is  neces- 
sary to  stress  the  fact  that  the  five  major  novels,  in  the  form  in 
which  we  have  them,  were  written  in  as  many  years,  and  appar- 
ently one  immediately  after  the  other;  considering  the  short  time 
taken  in  writing,  the  output  is  enormous.  N onhanger  Abbey  seems 
never  to  have  been  revised.  If  we  take  the  central  plots  of  these 
five  novels  as  dreams,  we  can  clearly  trace  the  gradual  working 
out  and  alteration  of  Jane  Austen's  attitudes  toward  the  members 


224  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  her  family  constellation.  It  is  necessary  to  remember  that  her 
father  was  a  clergyman,  her  favorite  brother  a  sailor,  and  her 
sister  Cassandra  her  greatest  confidante  and  friend. 

In  Sense  and  Sensibility  the  identification  between  the  sisters 
is  so  complete  that  they  seem  like  the  split  facets  of  a  single  per- 
sonality. They  are  completely  devoted  to  one  another.  One  of 
these  sisters,  Marianne,  marries  an  elderly  man,  after  having  first 
been  attracted  by  a  Worthless  lover;  the  other,  Elinor,  has  always 
loved,  and  finally  marries  a  clergyman.  The  sisters'  mother  is  silly 
and  well-meaning,  and  increases  her  daughters'  unhappiness;  the 
clergyman's  mother  does  everything  to  thwart  her  son.  The  girls' 
father  is  dead. 

In  Pride  and  Prejudice  the  love  between  the  heroine  and  one 
sister,  Jane,  is  extremely  strong;  but  there  are  three  other  sisters 
who  are  despised.  The  heroine  finally  makes  up  her  mind  to  marry 
a  rich  and  desirable  young  man,  by  which  means  she  gets  away 
from  her  hated  mother  and  silly  sisters  and  has  her  father  from 
time  to  time  to  herself.  She  rejects  a  silly  clergyman,  and  also  a 
Worthless  lover.  Her  mother  and  sisters  are  the  cause  of  her  mis- 
ery. Her  father  is  the  most  beloved  person  in  the  book. 

In  Mansfield  Park  the  heroine  has  no  sisters  whom  she  loves. 
She  has  two  sister  substitutes,  whom  she  hates,  and  a  real  sister 
whom  she  meets  late  in  life  and  likes  temperately.  She  immedi- 
ately loves  and  eventually  marries  a  clergyman,  considerably  older 
than  herself,  who  stands  midway  between  the  role  of  father  and 
brother.  She  has  a  brother,  a  sailor,  to  whom  she  is  very  attached. 
She  has  three  silly  and  spiteful  mothers.  She  rejects  a  Worthless 
lover.  Apart  from  the  father-brother,  there  are  two  other  fathers, 
one  of  whom  is  unsympathetic  and  the  other  coarse. 

In  Emma  the  heroine  has  one  sister,  whom  she  looks  down  on 
as  foolish  and  overdomesticated.  She  marries  an  elderly  man  who 
had  always  stood  in  the  role  of  a  father.  She  rejects  a  silly  clergy- 
man and  a  Worthless  lover.  Her  characterless  mother  is  dead,  and 
the  mother-substitute  is  kind  and  foolish.  Besides  the  man  she 
marries,  there  is  another  father,  senile,  hypochondriacal,  and  gently 
selfish. 

In  Persuasion  the  heroine  has  two  sisters  whom  she  hates,  and 


The  Myth  in  Jane  Austen  225 

who  exploit  and  neglect  her.  She  has  always  loved  and  finally 
marries  a  sailor,  a  man  of  her  own  age,  though,  under  the  persua- 
sion of  a  mother-substitute,  she  had  once  rejected  him.  She  rejects 
a  Worthless  lover.  The  clergyman  is  married  to  a  tepidly  liked 
sister-substitute.  Her  ideal  mother  is  dead,  the  mother-substitute 
is  well-meaning  but  foolish  and  inadvertently  causes  the  heroine 
great  distress.  The  father  is  hated,  proud,  silly  and  endlessly  selfish. 
It  seems  as  though,  by  thus  reworking  her  fantasies,  Jane  Austen 
had  finally  uncovered  for  herself  the  hidden  motives  behind  the 
too  warm,  too  loving,  family  relationships  which  circumscribed 
her  life.  Using  symbols,  she  analyzed  her  own  problems;  Persua- 
sion was  her  final  solution.  In  this  book  she  cried  out  against  her 
starved  life,  and  the  selfishness  of  the  father  and  sisters  on  whose 
account  it  had  been  starved.  When  she  wrote  this  book  she  was 
nearly  at  the  end  of  her  life,  lonely,  middle-aged,  and  nearing  the 
menopause.  She  could  now  only  voice  her  regret,  her  despair.  It 
is  this  note  which  makes  Persuasion,  with  its  poignant  and  sus- 
tained emotion,  so  completely  different  to  her  earlier  and  more 
exuberant  novels.  In  the  midst  of  her  satirical  observation  Jane 
Austen  had  hidden  a  myth  which  corresponded  to  a  facet  of  uni- 
versal apprehension,  a  hidden  myth  which  probably  holds  good 
for  her  myriad  admirers;  but  in  her  last  novel  she  rejected  her 
myth,  her  fantasy,  because  she  had  learned  that,  like  all  myths,  it 
was  eventually  an  enemy  of  life. 


Simon  O.  Lesser 


The  Image  of  the  Father 

A  Reading  of  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux' 
and  "I  Want  to  Know  Why" 


The  scene  of  Hawthorne's  story  "My  Kinsman, 
Major  Molineux"  is  a  New  England  colony;  the  time,  like  the 
place  not  too  precisely  fixed,  a  "moonlight"  night  during  that 
period  before  the  Revolution  when  Great  Britain  "had  assumed 
the  right  of  appointing  the  colonial  governors." 

A  young  boy  of  eighteen,  named  Robin,  has  come  to  town  to 
seek  his  relative,  Major  Molineux.  The  Major  is  either  governor  of 
the  colony  or  a  subordinate  of  high  rank — just  which  is  not  made 
clear.  The  boy  has  good  reasons  for  wanting  to  find  him.  He  is  the 
second  son  of  a  poor  clergyman.  His  elder  brother  is  destined  to  in- 
herit the  farm  "which  his  father  cultivated  in  the  interval  of  sacred 
duties."  The  Major  is  not  only  rich  and  influential  but  childless, 
and,  during  a  visit  paid  his  cousin  the  clergyman  a  year  or  two 
before  the  story  opens,  has  shown  an  interest  in  Robin  and  his 
brother  and  hinted  he  would  be  happy  to  establish  one  of  them 
in  life.  Robin  has  been  selected  for  the  honor,  handsomely  fitted 
226 


The  Image  of  the  Father  227 

out  in  homespun,  and,  to  cover  the  expenses  of  his  journey,  given 
half  the  remnant  of  his  father's  salary  of  the  year  before. 

Just  before  reaching  the  town  Robin  has  had  to  cross  a  river, 
and  it  occurs  to  him  that  he  should  have  perhaps  asked  the  ferry- 
man to  direct  him  to  the  home  of  his  kinsman  or  perhaps  even 
accompany  him  as  a  guide.  But  he  reflects  that  the  first  person  he 
meets  will  serve  as  well.  To  his  surprise,  however,  he  experiences 
rebuff  after  rebuff,  difficulty  upon  difficulty.  He  asks  an  elderly 
gentleman  to  direct  him,  but  the  man  not  only  disclaims  any  knowl- 
edge of  the  Major;  he  rebukes  Robin  so  angrily — the  youth  has 
impulsively  gripped  the  old  man's  coat — that  some  people  nearby 
roar  with  laughter.  Robin  now  wanders  through  a  maze  of  deserted 
streets  near  the  waterfront.  Coming  to  a  still-open  tavern,  he  de- 
cides to  make  inquiry  there.  He  is  at  first  cordially  received,  but 
as  soon  as  he  asks  to  be  directed  to  his  relative,  the  innkeeper  be- 
gins to  read  the  description  of  an  escaped  "bounden  servant,"  look- 
ing at  Robin  in  such  a  way  as  to  suggest  that  the  description  fits 
him  exactly.  Robin  leaves,  derisive  laughter  ringing  in  his  ears  for 
the  second  time  that  night. 

Now  the  youth  loiters  up  and  down  a  spacious  street,  looking 
at  each  man  who  passes  by  in  the  hope  of  finding  the  Major.  He 
is  now  so  tired  and  hungry  that  he  begins  to  consider  the  wisdom 
of  lifting  his  cudgel  and  compelling  the  first  passer-by  he  meets 
to  direct  him  to  his  kinsman.  While  toying  with  this  idea,  he  turns 
down  an  empty  and  rather  disreputable  street.  Through  the  half- 
open  door  of  the  third  house  he  passes  he  catches  a  glimpse  of  a 
lady  wearing  a  scarlet  petticoat  and  decides  to  address  his  inquiry 
to  her.  His  appearance  and  voice  are  winning,  and  the  lady  steps 
outside  to  talk  to  him.  She  proves  both  attractive  and  hospitable. 
Intimating  that  she  is  the  housekeeper  of  the  Major,  who  she  says 
is  asleep,  she  offers  to  welcome  the  youth  in  his  stead.  Though 
Robin  only  half  believes  her,  he  is  about  to  follow  her  when  she 
is  startled  by  the  opening  of  a  door  in  a  nearby  house  and  leaves 
him  to  run  into  her  own. 

A  watchman  now  approaches,  muttering  sleepy  threats.  They 
are  perfunctory,  but  sufficient  to  discourage  Robin  temporarily 
from  inquiring  for  his  kinsman.  He  shouts  an  inquiry  just  as  the 


228  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

watchman  is  about  to  vanish  around  a  comer,  but  receives  no 
reply.  Robin  thinks  he  hears  a  sound  of  muffled  laughter.  He 
quite  clearly  hears  a  pleasant  titter  from  an  open  window  above 
his  head,  whence  a  round  arm  beckons  him.  Being  a  clergyman's 
son  and  a  good  youth,  Robin  flees. 

He  now  roams  through  the  town  "desperately,  and  at  random, 
.  .  .  almost  ready  to  believe  that  a  spell  was  on  him." 

Encountering  a  solitary  passer-by  in  the  shadow  of  a  church 
steeple,  Robin  insists  on  being  directed  to  the  home  of  his  kins- 
man. The  passer-by  unmuffles  his  face.  He  proves  to  be  a  man 
Robin  had  noticed  earlier  at  the  tavern,  but  now  half  of  his  face 
has  been  painted  a  livid  red,  the  other  half  black.  Grinning  at  the 
surprised  youth,  the  man  tells  him  that  his  kinsman  will  pass  that 
very  spot  within  the  hour.  Robin  settles  down  on  the  church  steps 
to  wait.  As  he  struggles  against  drowsiness,  strange  and  extraordi- 
narily vivid  fantasies  flit  through  his  mind.  He  dozes  but,  hearing 
a  man  pass  by,  wakes  and  inquires,  with  unwarranted  peevishness, 
if  he  must  wait  there  all  night  for  his  kinsman,  Major  Molineux. 
The  stranger  approaches  and,  seeing  a  country  youth  who  is  ap- 
parently homeless  and  without  friends,  offers  to  be  of  help.  After 
hearing  Robin's  story  he  joins  him  to  wait  the  arrival  of  the 
Major. 

Shortly  a  mighty  stream  of  people  come  into  view.  Robin  grad- 
ually makes  out  that  some  of  them  are  applauding  spectators,  some 
participants  in  a  curious  procession.  It  is  headed  by  a  single  horse- 
man, who  bears  a  drawn  sword  and  whose  face  is  painted  red  and 
black:  he  is  the  man  who  has  told  Robin  that  his  kinsman  would 
pass  that  way  within  the  hour.  Behind  the  horseman  come  a  band 
of  wind  instruments,  men  carrying  torches,  and  then  men  in  Indian 
and  many  other  kinds  of  costume. 

Robin  has  a  feeling  that  he  is  involved  in  this  procession,  a  feel- 
ing which  is  quickly  confirmed.  As  the  torches  approach  him,  the 
leader  thunders  a  command,  the  parade  stops,  the  tumult  dies 
down. 

Right  before  Robin's  eye  was  an  uncovered  cart.  There  the 
torches  blazed  the  brightest,  there  the  moon  shone  out  like  day, 
and  there,  in  tar-and-feathery  dignity,  sat  his  kinsman,  Major 
Molineux! 


The  Image  of  the  Father  229 

The  Major  is  a  large  and  majestic  man,  but  now  his  body  is 
"agitated  by  a  quick  and  continual  tremor"  he  cannot  quell.  The 
encounter  with  Robin  causes  him  to  suffer  still  more  deeply.  He 
recognizes  the  youth  on  the  instant. 

Staring  at  his  kinsman,  Robin's  knees  shake  and  his  hair  bristles. 
Soon,  however,  a  curious  change  sets  in.  The  adventures  of  the 
night,  his  fatigue,  the  confusion  of  the  spectacle,  above  all  "the 
spectre  of  his  kinsman  reviled  by  that  great  multitude  .  .  .  [affect] 
him  with  a  sort  of  mental  inebriety."  In  the  crowd  he  sees  the 
watchman  he  has  encountered  earlier,  enjoying  his  amazement.  A 
woman  twitches  his  arm:  it  is  the  minx  of  the  scarlet  petticoat. 
Finally,  from  the  balcony  of  the  large  house  across  from  the  church 
comes  a  great,  broad  laugh  which  momentarily  dominates  every- 
thing: it  is  the  formidable  old  man  of  whom  Robin  made  his  first 
inquiries  and  whom  he  later  went  out  of  his  way  to  avoid. 

Then  Robin  seemed  to  hear  the  voices  of  .  . .  all  who  had  made 
sport  of  him  that  night.  The  contagion  was  spreading  among  the 
multitude,  when  all  at  once,  it  seized  upon  Robin,  and  he  sent 
forth  a  shout  of  laughter  that  echoed  through  the  street, — every 
man  shook  his  sides,  every  man  emptied  his  lungs,  but  Robin's 
shout  was  the  loudest  there. 

When  the  laughter  has  momentarily  spent  its  force,  the  proces- 
sion is  resumed.  Robin  asks  the  gentleman  who  has  been  sitting 
beside  him  to  direct  him  to  the  ferry.  The  Major,  the  boy  realizes, 
will  scarcely  desire  to  see  his  face  again.  In  the  friendliest  possible 
way  the  gentleman  refuses  Robin's  request.  He  tells  the  youth  that 
he  will  speed  him  on  his  journey  in  a  few  days  if  he  still  wants  to 
leave.  But  he  suggests  another  possibility.  " '.  .  .  if  you  prefer  to 
remain  with  us,  perhaps,  as  you  are  a  shrewd  youth,  you  may  rise 
in  the  world  without  the  help  of  your  kinsman,  Major  Molineux.'  " 


"My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  belongs,  I  believe,  among 
Hawthorne's  half-dozen  greatest  short  stories.  But  unexpected  diffi- 
culties arise  when  one  attempts  to  account  for  the  spell  the  story 


230  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

casts.  Although  it  seems  clear  enough  as  it  is  read,  it  resists  anal- 
ysis. Above  all,  its  climax  is  puzzling.  "Mental  inebriety"  is  hardly 
an  adequate  explanation  for  a  youth's  barefaced  mockery  of  an 
elderly  relative  for  whom  he  had  been  searching,  whose  ill-treat- 
ment might  have  been  expected  to  inspire  feelings  of  compassion 
and  anger. 

Of  the  half-dozen  critics  who  have  discussed  the  story,  surpris- 
ingly, no  more  than  two  seem  aware  that  it  presents  any  difficulties. 
The  rest  accept  Hawthorne's  explanation  at  face  value.  They  re- 
gard "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  as  the  story  of  an  ignorant 
country  youth  who,  happening  to  wander  upon  the  scene  at  an 
inopportune  time,  is  first  frustrated  in  his  search  as  a  result  of  the 
preparation  the  colonists  are  making  and  then  becomes  a  reluctant 
and  confused  spectator  at  their  humiliation  of  his  kinsman.  Such 
an  interpretation  not  only  fails  to  explain  many  aspects  of  the 
story;  it  hardly  suggests  why  the  story  should  interest  us.  It  is  per- 
haps significant  that  the  critics  who  recognize  that  the  story  is  by 
no  means  so  one-dimensional  as  this,  Malcolm  Cowley  and  Q.  D. 
Leavis,  also  show  the  keenest  awareness  of  its  greatness.  Unfortu- 
nately even  these  critics  have  not  succeeded,  in  my  opinion,  in 
penetrating  to  the  story's  richest  veins  of  meaning. 

Malcolm  Cowley  describes  the  story  as  "the  legend  of  a  youth 
who  achieves  manhood  through  searching  for  a  spiritual  father  and 
finding  that  the  object  of  his  search  is  an  imposter"  (Introduction 
to  The  Portable  Hawthorne).  Leaving  to  one  side  the  question  of 
whether  Robin  is  searching  for  a  spiritual  father,  it  may  be  said  at 
once  that  there  is  no  evidence  that  Major  Molineux  is  an  imposter. 
The  first  paragraph  of  the  story  tells  us  that  the  colonial  servants 
appointed  by  Great  Britain  were  likely  to  be  resented  even  when 
they  carried  out  instructions  with  some  lenience;  and  we  are  later 
told  that  the  Major's  head  had  "grown  gray  in  honor." 

Mrs.  Leavis  regards  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  as  a  "pro- 
phetic forecast  of  .  .  .  the  rejection  of  England  that  was  to  occur 
in  fact  much  later"  ("Hawthorne  as  Poet,"  Sewanee  Review,  Spring 
1951).  This  is  by  no  means  as  far-fetched  a  reading  of  the  story 
as  it  may  at  first  appear.  It  has  the  merit  of  calling  attention  to  a 
rebelliousness  in  Robin  for  which,  as  we  shall  see,  there  is  a  great 


The  Image  of  the  Father  23 1 

deal  of  evidence.  But  as  I  think  will  become  clear,  Mrs.  Leavis 
has  perceived  a  secondary  implication  of  that  rebelliousness;  it  has 
a  much  more  intimate  source  and  reference. 

The  remaining  critics  who  have  commented  on  "Major  Moli- 
neux"  have  evidently  based  their  remarks  almost  entirely  on  their 
conscious  reactions  to  the  story's  manifest  level  of  meaning.  At 
best,  I  believe,  such  criticism  is  of  limited  value;  in  connection 
with  such  a  work  as  this  it  is  sometimes  actually  misleading.  Like 
some  other  stories  by  Hawthorne  and  by  such  writers  as  Melville, 
Kafka,  Dostoevsky  and  Shakespeare,  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Moli- 
neux"  is  Janus-faced.  It  says  one  thing  to  the  conscious  mind  and 
whispers  something  quite  different  to  the  unconscious.  The  second 
level  of  meaning  is  understood  readily  enough,  immediately  and 
intuitively.  Our  acceptance  of  Robin's  behavior — which,  as  we 
shall  see,  is  bizarre  not  only  during  his  ultimate  encounter  with 
his  kinsman  but  throughout  the  story — is  only  explicable,  I  be- 
lieve, on  the  assumption  that  we  understand  it  without  difficulty. 
To  respond  to  the  story,  to  find  Robin's  behavior  not  only  "right" 
but  satisfying,  we  must  perceive  a  great  many  things  nowhere  ex- 
plicitly developed.  These  hidden  implications  are  not  meant  to 
come  to  our  attention  as  we  read;  they  would  arouse  anxiety  if 
they  did.  Even  to  get  at  them  after  one  has  read  the  story  requires 
a  deliberate  exertion  of  will.  There  is  still  another  difficulty.  To 
deal  with  these  implications  at  all  systematically,  one  is  almost 
compelled  to  make  some  use  of  depth  psychology.  This  is  a  kind 
of  knowledge  most  critics  are  curiously  loathe  to  employ. 

As  soon  as  we  look  at  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  more 
closely,  we  discover  that  it  is  only  in  part  a  story  of  baffled  search: 
Robin  is  never  so  intent  on  finding  his  illustrious  relative  as  he 
believes  he  is  and  as  it  appears.  The  story  even  tells  us  why  this 
is  so.  To  some  extent  we  understand  from  the  very  beginning;  the 
explanations  offered  serve  basically  to  remind  us  of  things  we  have 
experienced  ourselves. 

As  Robin  walks  into  the  town,  it  will  be  remembered,  he  realizes 
that  he  should  have  probably  asked  the  ferryman  how  to  get  to 
the  home  of  Major  Molineux.  Today  we  have  scientific  evidence 


232  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

for  what  Hawthorne,  and  we,  understand  intuitively,  the  signifi- 
cance of  such  forgetting.  Earlier  in  the  same  paragraph  we  have 
been  told  something  equally  significant.  Robin  walks  into  the  town 
"with  as  light  a  step  as  if  his  day's  journey  had  not  already  ex- 
ceeded thirty  miles,  and  with  as  eager  an  eye  as  if  he  were  enter- 
ing London  city,  instead  of  the  little  metropolis  of  a  New  England 
colony."  This  though  he  has  momentarily  lost  sight  of  the  reason 
for  his  visit!  As  early  as  this  we  begin  to  suspect  that  the  town 
attracts  the  youth  for  reasons  which  have  nothing  whatever  to  do 
with  finding  his  influential  relative.  The  intimation  does  not  sur- 
prise us.  Robin  is  eighteen.  The  ferryman  has  surmised  that  this 
is  his  first  visit  to  town.  In  a  general  way  we  understand  why  his 
eye  is  "eager." 

Robin  makes  his  first  inquiry  for  his  kinsman  with  reasonable 
alacrity.  But  a  considerable  time  appears  to  elapse  before  his  sec- 
ond inquiry,  at  the  tavern,  and  he  is  evidently  spurred  to  enter  it 
as  much  by  the  odor  of  food,  which  reminds  him  of  his  own  hun- 
ger, as  by  any  zeal  to  find  the  Major. 

After  his  rebuff  at  the  tavern  it  perhaps  seems  reasonable  enough 
that  Robin  should  drop  his  inquiries  and  simply  walk  through 
the  streets  looking  for  Major  Molineux.  If  our  critical  faculties 
were  not  already  somewhat  relaxed,  however,  it  might  occur  to 
us  at  once  that  this  is  a  singularly  inefficient  way  of  looking  for 
anyone.  And  Robin  does  not  pursue  his  impractical  plan  with  any 
ardor.  He  stares  at  the  young  men  he  encounters  with  as  much 
interest  as  at  the  old  ones;  though  he  notices  the  jaunty  gait  of 
others,  he  never  increases  his  pace;  and  there  are  many  pauses 
"to  examine  the  gorgeous  display  of  goods  in  the  shop  windows." 

Nor  does  his  lack  of  success  make  him  impatient.  Only  the  ap- 
proach of  the  elderly  gentleman  he  had  first  accosted  causes  him 
to  abandon  his  plan  and  turn  down  a  side  street.  He  is  now  so 
tired  and  hungry  that  he  considers  demanding  guidance  from  the 
first  solitary  passer-by  he  encounters.  But  while  this  resolution  is, 
as  Hawthorne  puts  it,  "gaining  strength,"  what  he  actually  does  is 
enter  "a  street  of  mean  appearance,  on  either  side  of  which  a  row 
of  ill-built  houses  was  straggling  toward  the  harbor."  It  is  of  the 
utmost  importance  that  Robin  continues  his  "researches"  on  this 


The  Image  of  the  Father  233 

less  respectable  street,  although  no  one  is  visible  along  its  entire 
extent.  If  we  were  not  by  now  so  completely  immersed  in  the 
concealed  story  which  is  unfolding  itself,  we  might  begin  to  wonder 
consciously  whether  Robin  is  seriously  searching  for  his  kinsman. 

The  encounters  with  women  which  follow  explain  the  attraction 
of  the  street.  They  show  that  unconsciously  Robin  is  searching  for 
sexual  adventure.  The  strength  of  his  desire  is  almost  pathetically 
betrayed  by  his  half-willingness  to  believe  the  cock-and-bull  story 
of  the  pretty  young  "housekeeper."  Here,  if  not  before,  we  identify 
one  of  the  specific  forces  which  is  inhibiting  Robin  in  his  search 
for  his  kinsman:  he  would  like  a  greater  measure  of  sexual  freedom 
than  it  is  reasonable  to  suppose  he  would  enjoy  in  the  home  of  a 
colonial  official. 

The  encounter  with  the  watchman  furnishes  additional  evidence 
of  Robin's  ambivalence.  The  youth  could  scarcely  hope  to  find  a 
better  person  of  whom  to  ask  directions.  It  is  likely  that  he  is  also 
held  back  in  this  case  by  guilt  about  what  he  has  just  been  doing, 
but  the  ease  with  which  he  has  permitted  himself  to  be  diverted 
from  his  search  is  probably  one  of  the  sources  of  that  guilt. 

After  further  wandering  Robin  finally  detains  the  passer-by  who 
tells  him  that  the  Major  will  pass  that  very  spot  within  the  hour. 
In  talking  with  the  kindly  gentleman  who  joins  him  to  await  the 
arrival  of  the  Major,  Robin  is  unable  to  restrain  himself  from 
boasting  of  his  shrewdness  and  grown-upness.  These  boasts  help 
us  to  understand  another  of  the  forces  which  has  been  holding  him 
back:  he  wants  to  succeed  through  his  own  efforts  and  his  own 
merit.  His  departure  from  home  has  evidently  caused  him  to 
dream  of  achieving  economic  as  well  as  sexual  independence. 
When  at  the  end  of  the  story  the  gentleman  suggests  that  Robin 
may  decide  to  stay  in  town  and  may  prosper  without  the  help  of 
his  kinsman,  he  is  simply  giving  expression  to  the  youth's  unvoiced 
but  readily  discernible  desire. 

The  gentleman  has  an  opportunity  to  observe  how  half-hearted 
Robin  is  about  finding  his  kinsman.  When  the  sounds  of  the  ap- 
proaching procession  become  more  clearly  audible,  the  youth 
comes  to  the  conclusion  that  some  kind  of  "prodigious  merry- 
making" is  going  forward  and  suggests  that  he  and  his  new-found 


234  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

friend  step  around  the  corner,  to  a  point  where  he  thinks  everyone 
is  hastening,  and  partake  of  their  share  of  the  fun.  He  has  to  be 
reminded  by  his  companion  that  he  is  searching  for  his  kinsman, 
who  is  supposed  to  pass  by  the  place  where  they  now  are  in  a 
very  short  time.  With  insight  and  artistry  Hawthorne  spreads  the 
evidence  of  Robin's  irresoluteness  of  purpose  from  the  very  be- 
ginning of  the  story  to  the  moment  of  Major  Molineux's  appear- 
ance; but  so  subtle  is  the  evidence,  so  smoothly  does  it  fit  into 
the  surface  flow  of  the  narrative,  that  its  significance  never  ob- 
trudes itself  on  our  attention. 

By  this  point  in  the  story,  furthermore,  we  unconsciously  under- 
stand Robin's  vacillation  more  completely  than  I  have  been  able 
to  suggest.  We  see  that,  unbeknown  to  himself,  the  youth  has  good 
reasons  for  not  wanting  to  find  Major  Molineux:  when  he  finds 
him,  he  will  have  to  resubmit  to  the  kind  of  authority  from  which, 
temporarily  at  least,  he  has  just  escaped.  At  some  deep  level  the 
Major  appears  anything  but  a  potential  benefactor;  he  symbolizes 
just  those  aspects  of  the  father  from  which  the  youth  so  urgently 
desires  to  be  free.  As  an  elderly  relative  of  the  father  and  an  au- 
thority figure,  he  may  be  confused  with  the  father.  In  any  case, 
however  undeservedly,  he  has  now  become  the  target  of  all  the 
hostile  and  rebellious  feelings  which  were  originally  directed  against 
the  father. 

Hawthorne  tells  us  these  things,  it  is  interesting  to  note,  by 
means  of  just  the  kind  of  unconscious  manifestations  which  twen- 
tieth-century psychology  has  found  so  significant.  While  Robin  sits 
on  the  steps  of  the  church,  fighting  his  desire  to  sleep,  he  has  a 
fantasy  in  which  he  imagines  that  his  kinsman  is  already  dead! 
And  his  very  next  thought  is  of  his  father's  household.  He  won- 
ders how  "that  evening  of  ambiguity  and  weariness"  has  been 
spent  at  home,  and  has  a  second  fantasy  of  such  hallucinatory 
vividness  that  he  wonders  if  he  is  "here  or  there."  Nor  is  this  an 
idle  question.  His  father  and  Major  Molineux  are  so  inextricably 
linked  in  his  mind  that  in  a  sense  the  drama  in  which  he  is  in- 
volved is  being  played  out  "there" — at  home — as  well  as  in  the 
town  where  bodily  he  happens  to  be. 

The  climax  of  this  drama,  so  puzzling  to  the  conscious  intellect, 


The  Image  of  the  Father  235 

is  immediately  comprehensible  to  that  portion  of  the  mind  which 
has  been  following  the  hidden  course  of  developments.  It  is  com- 
prehensible although  Hawthorne  describes  Robin's  feelings,  as  is 
right,  in  vague  terms.  Robin  never  understands  those  feelings  and 
the  reader  would  find  it  disturbing  if  they  were  too  plainly  labeled. 

The  feelings  would  probably  never  have  secured  open  expres- 
sion except  under  circumstances  as  out  of  the  ordinary  as  those 
the  story  describes.  But  now  everything  conspires  not  simply  to 
permit  but  to  encourage  Robin  to  give  in  to  tendencies  which  as 
we  know  he  was  finding  it  difficult  to  control.  To  everyone  present 
Major  Molineux  is  overtly  what  he  is  to  the  youth  on  some  dark 
and  secret  level — a  symbol  of  restraint  and  unwelcome  authority. 
He  is  this  even  to  the  elderly  gentleman,  the  watchman,  the  man 
by  his  side — people  whose  disapproval  of  the  crowd's  behavior 
might  have  had  a  powerful  effect  upon  him.  Without  a  voice  be- 
ing raised  in  protest,  the  crowd  is  acting  out  the  youth's  repressed 
impulses  and  in  effect  urging  him  to  act  on  them  also.  The  joy 
the  crowd  takes  in  asserting  its  strength  and  the  reappearance  of 
the  lady  of  the  scarlet  petticoat  provide  him  with  incentives  for 
letting  himself  go. 

And  so  Robin  makes  common  cause  with  the  crowd.  He  laughs 
— he  laughs  louder  than  anyone  else.  So  long  as  he  himself  did 
not  know  how  he  would  act  he  had  reason  to  fear  the  crowd,  and 
the  relief  he  feels  at  the  easing  of  the  immediate  situation  is  one 
of  the  sources  of  his  laughter.  But  his  decision  resolves  still  deeper 
and  more  vexing  conflicts.  The  relief  he  feels  that  he  can  vent  his 
hostility  for  his  kinsman  and  abandon  his  search  for  him  is  the 
ultimate  source  of  his  "riotous  mirth."  It  is  fueled  by  energy  which 
until  then  was  being  expended  in  repression  and  inner  conflict. 

Although  Hawthorne  uses  figurative  language  which  may  keep 
his  meaning  from  being  consciously  noted,  he  is  at  pains  to  let  us 
know  that  murderous  hate  underlies  the  merriment  of  the  crowd  of 
which  Robin  becomes  a  part.  When  the  laughter  momentarily  dies 
down,  the  procession  resumes  its  march. 

On  they  went,  like  fiends  that  throng  in  mockery  around  some 
dead  potentate,  mighty  no  more,  but  majestic  still  in  his  agony. 


236  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

On  they  went,  in  counterfeited  pomp,  in  senseless  uproar,  in 
frenzied  merriment,  trampling  all  on  an  old  man's  heart. 

Symbolically  and  to  some  extent  actually  the  crowd  has  carried 
out  the  fantasy  Robin  had  on  the  steps  of  the  church. 

To  the  conscious  mind  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  is  a 
story  of  an  ambitious  youth's  thwarted  search  for  an  influential 
relative  he  wants  to  find.  To  the  unconscious,  it  is  a  story  of  the 
youth's  hostile  and  rebellious  feelings  for  the  relative — and  for 
the  father — and  his  wish  to  be  free  of  adult  domination.  To  the 
conscious  mind  it  is  a  story  of  a  search  which  was  unsuccessful 
because  of  external  difficulties.  To  the  unconscious — like  Hamlet, 
with  which  it  has  more  than  one  point  in  common — it  is  a  story 
of  a  young  man  caught  up  in  an  enterprise  for  which  he  has  no 
stomach  and  debarred  from  succeeding  in  it  by  internal  inhibitions. 

From  one  point  of  view  the  unacknowledged  forces  playing 
upon  the  apparently  simple  and  candid  central  character  of  "My 
Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  are  deeply  abhorrent.  Our  sympathy 
for  the  character  should  tell  us,  however,  that  there  is  another  side 
to  the  matter.  The  tendencies  which  assert  themselves  in  Robin 
exist  in  all  men.  What  he  is  doing,  unwittingly  but  flamboyantly, 
is  something  which  every  young  man  does  and  must  do,  however 
gradually,  prudently  and  inconspicuously:  he  is  destroying  an  im- 
age of  paternal  authority  so  that,  freed  from  its  restraining  influ- 
ence, he  can  begin  life  as  an  adult. 


"My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  is  one  of  a  relatively  small  but 
distinguished  group  of  stories  which  would  be  incomprehensible, 
in  part  or  in  their  entirety,  on  the  basis  of  what  we  understand 
consciously.  In  response  to  such  stories  it  is  evident  that  uncon- 
scious perception  plays  an  indispensable  role.  Though  it  is  less 
evident,  I  believe  that  the  unconscious  plays  a  role  which  is  scarcely 
less  important  in  response  to  many  stories  which  are  intelligible 
on  some  level  to  the  conscious  mind.  For  most,  if  not  all  fiction — 
and  certainly  the  greatest  fiction — has  additional  levels  of  meaning 


The  Image  of  the  Father  237 

which  must  be  communicated  unconsciously.  In  many  cases  far 
more  is  communicated  unconsciously  than  consciously.  Even  when 
this  is  not  the  case,  the  meanings  grasped  below  the  threshold  of 
awareness  may  make  a  disproportionate  contribution  to  the  pleas- 
ure we  receive  from  reading  fiction. 

It  may  be  worth-while  to  analyze  a  story  which  is  perfectly  com- 
prehensible to  the  intellect  but  has  many  further  levels  of  meaning. 
Let  us  glance,  therefore,  at  Sherwood  Anderson's  story,  "I  Want 
to  Know  Why."  It  has  many  interesting  points  of  similarity  and 
contrast  with  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux."  And  as  it  happens, 
the  story  has  been  analyzed  by  Cleanth  Brooks  and  Robert  Penn 
Warren,  so  that  once  again  we  have  a  jumping-off  point  for  our 
own  explorations. 

I  shall  assume  that  my  readers  are  familiar  with  the  story,  and 
simply  remind  them  of  its  chief  events.  It  is  narrated  in  the  first 
person  by  its  fifteen-year-old  hero,  whose  name  we  never  learn. 
A  boy  from  Beckersville,  Kentucky,  a  small  town  evidently  in  the 
blue-grass  region,  he  is  "crazy  about  thoroughbred  horses";  to 
him  they  epitomize  everything  which  is  "lovely  and  clean  and  full 
of  spunk  and  honest."  A  lump  comes  into  his  throat  when  he  sees 
potential  winners  run.  He  knows  he  could  capitalize  on  this  physi- 
cal reaction  if  he  wanted  to,  but  he  has  no  desire  to  gamble;  horses 
and  racing  represent  something  too  important  to  him  for  that. 

With  three  friends  of  about  his  own  age,  the  boy  runs  away 
to  attend  the  races  at  Saratoga.  Bildad,  a  Negro  from  the  same 
town  who  works  at  the  tracks,  feeds  the  boys,  shows  them  a  place 
to  sleep  and  keeps  still  about  them,  which  the  hero  seems  to 
appreciate  most  of  all. 

The  race  the  boys  particularly  want  to  see  has  two  entries  that 
give  the  hero  a  lump  in  his  throat,  and  the  night  before  it  is  run 
he  is  so  excited  he  cannot  sleep.  He  aches  to  watch  the  two  horses 
run,  but  he  dreads  it  too,  for  he  hates  to  see  either  one  beaten. 
The  day  of  the  race  he  goes  to  the  paddocks  to  look  at  the  horses. 
As  soon  as  he  sees  one  of  them,  Sunstreak,  a  nervous  and  beautiful 
stallion,  who  is  "like  a  girl  you  think  about  sometimes  but  never 
see,"  the  boy  knows  that  it  is  his  day.  Watching,  he  experiences  a 
mystical  communion  with  the  horse  and  the  horse's  trainer,  a  man 


238  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

named  Jerry  Tillford,  also  from  Beckersville,  who  has  befriended 
him  many  times.  The  experience  is  so  central  to  understanding  the 
story  that  it  must  be  quoted  at  considerable  length. 

I  was  standing  looking  at  that  horse  and  aching.  In  some  way, 
I  can't  tell  how,  I  knew  just  how  Sunstreak  felt  inside.  .  .  .  That 
horse  wasn't  thinking  about  running.  .  .  .  He  was  just  thinking 
about  holding  himself  back  'til  the  time  for  the  running  came.  .  .  . 
He  wasn't  bragging  or  letting  on  much  or  prancing  or  making  a 
fuss,  but  just  waiting.  I  knew  it  and  Jerry  Tillford  his  trainer 
knew.  I  looked  up  and  then  that  man  and  I  looked  into  each 
other's  eyes.  Something  happened  to  me.  I  guess  I  loved  the  man 
as  much  as  I  did  the  horse  because  he  knew  what  I  knew.  Seemed 
to  me  there  wasn't  anything  in  the  world  but  that  man  and  the 
horse  and  me.  I  cried  and  Jerry  Tillford  had  a  shine  in  his 
eyes.  .  .  . 

Sunstreak  does  win  the  race  and  the  other  Beckersville  entry,  a 
gelding  named  Middlestride,  finishes  second.  The  hero  of  the  story 
was  so  confident  that  it  would  work  out  this  way  that  he  is  scarcely 
excited.  All  through  the  race  he  thinks  about  Jerry  Tillford  and 
of  how  happy  he  must  be.  "I  liked  him  that  afternoon  even  more 
than  I  ever  liked  my  own  father."  Jerry,  he  knows,  has  worked 
with  Sunstreak  since  the  horse  was  a  baby  colt,  and  he  imagines 
that  while  watching  the  race  the  trainer  must  feel  "like  a  mother 
seeing  her  child  do  something  brave  or  wonderful." 

That  night  the  boy  "cuts  out"  from  his  companions  because  he 
feels  an  impulse  to  be  near  Jerry.  He  walks  along  a  road  which 
leads  to  a  "rummy-looking  farmhouse"  because  he  has  seen  "Jerry 
and  some  other  men  go  that  way  in  an  automobile."  He  doesn't 
expect  to  find  them,  but  shortly  after  he  gets  there  an  automobile 
arrives  with  Jerry  and  five  other  men,  several  of  them  from  Beck- 
ersville and  known  to  the  boy.  All  of  them  except  the  father  of 
one  of  the  boys  who  has  accompanied  the  hero  to  Saratoga,  a 
gambler  named  Rieback  who  quarrels  with  the  others,  enter  the 
farmhouse,  which  proves  to  be  "a  place  for  bad  women  to  stay  in." 

The  boy  telling  the  story  creeps  to  a  window  and  peers  in.  What 
he  sees  sickens  and  disgusts  him.  The  women  are  mean-looking 
and,  except  for  one  who  a  little  resembles  the  gelding  Middlestride, 
"but  [is]  not  clean  like  him"  and  has  "a  hard  ugly  mouth,"  they 


The  Image  of  the  Father  239 

are  not  even  attractive.  The  place  smells  rotten,  and  the  talk  is 
rotten,  "the  kind  a  kid  hears  around  a  livery  stable  in  a  town  like 
Beckersville  in  the  winter  but  don't  ever  expect  to  hear  talked 
when  there  are  women  around." 

Jerry  Tillford  boasts  like  a  fool,  taking  credit  for  Sunstreak's 
qualities  and  the  victory  the  horse  has  won  that  afternoon.  Then 
the  trainer  looks  at  the  woman  who  somewhat  resembles  Middle- 
stride  and  his  eyes  begin  to  shine  as  they  had  when  he  had  looked 
at  the  teller  of  the  story  and  Sunstreak  that  afternoon.  As  the  man 
weaves  toward  the  woman,  the  boy  begins  to  hate  him.  "I  wanted 
to  scream  and  rush  in  the  room  and  kill  him  ...  I  was  so  mad  .  .  . 
that  I  cried  and  my  fists  were  doubled  up  so  my  fingernails  cut 
my  hands."  When  the  man  kisses  the  woman,  the  boy  creeps  away 
and  returns  to  the  tracks.  That  night  he  sleeps  little.  He  tells  his 
companions  nothing  of  what  he  has  seen,  but  the  next  morning 
he  persuades  them  to  start  for  home. 

There  he  continues  to  live  very  much  as  before,  but  everything 
seems  different. 

At  the  tracks  the  air  don't  taste  as  good  or  smell  as  good.  It's 
because  a  man  like  Jerry  Tillford,  who  knows  what  he  does, 
could  see  a  horse  like  Sunstreak  run,  and  kiss  a  woman  like  that 
the  same  day.  ...  I  keep  thinking  about  it  and  it  spoils  looking  at 
horses  and  smelling  things  and  hearing  niggers  laugh  and  every- 
thing. Sometimes  I'm  so  mad  about  it  I  want  to  fight  someone. 
.  .  .  What  did  he  do  it  for?  I  want  to  know  why. 


"I  Want  to  Know  Why"  certainly  means  something  to  the  con- 
scious intellect,  and  in  Understanding  Fiction  Brooks  and  Warren 
give  one  interpretation  of  the  story's  manifest  content  to  which  I 
should  not  wish  to  offer  more  than  one  or  two  reservations.  "I 
Want  to  Know  Why,"  they  declare,  is  an  initiation  story  in  which 
a  boy  "discovers  something  about  the  nature  of  evil,  and  tries  to 
find  some  way  of  coming  to  terms  with  his  discovery." 

The  boy  knows  that  evil  exists  in  the  world.  According  to  Brooks 


240  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

and  Warren,  what  causes  him  to  feel  so  much  horror  and  disgust 
at  Saratoga  is  the  realization — pointed  up  by  the  parallelism  of  the 
scene  at  the  paddocks  and  the  scene  at  the  rummy-looking  farm- 
house— that  good  and  evil  may  be  so  closely  linked,  that  they  may 
co-exist  in  the  same  person.  He  discovers  too  that  virtue  is  a  hu- 
man, not  an  animal,  quality.  Unlike  the  horse,  with  which  in  other 
respects  human  beings  are  frequently  compared,  man  has  the  ca- 
pacity for  choice.  When  he  elects  the  bad,  he  is  worse  than  the 
beasts. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  phrase  "who  knows  what  he  does,"  on 
which  Brooks  and  Warren  base  the  last-mentioned  observation, 
refers  less  to  specific  problems  involving  choice  than  to  the  willing- 
ness of  a  creature  like  man  to  come  to  terms  with  his  predilection 
for  evil.  Nor  can  I  assent  to  the  claim  that  the  boy  discovers,  at 
the  climax  of  the  story,  that  good  and  evil  are  closely  joined.  What 
he  knows  about  Henry  Rieback's  father  has  already  taught  him 
that,  if  nothing  else  has.  These  are  trifling  qualifications,  however. 
My  real  question  is  whether  the  interpretation  offered  by  Brooks 
and  Warren  goes  far  to  explain  the  impact  of  the  story,  even 
assuming  the  correctness  of  everything  they  say.  They  themselves 
seem  a  little  uneasy  on  this  score,  for  they  write: 

.  .  .  having  extracted  what  may  seem  to  be  a  moral  "message," 
one  should  remind  oneself  that  the  "message"  is,  as  such,  not  the 
story.  The  story  may  be  said  to  be  the  dramatization  of  the  dis- 
covery. Now  the  message  is  something  of  which  everyone  is 
aware;  it  is  a  platitude.  But  the  platitude  ceases  to  be  a  platitude, 
it  is  revitalized  and  becomes  meaningful  again,  when  it  is  shown 
to  be  operating  in  terms  of  experience. 

Here,  again,  there  is  little  to  which  one  can  take  exception.  A 
very  ordinary  idea  or  event  can  be  "revitalized"  if  dramatized  suc- 
cessfully, and  the  fact  that  what  we  learn  about  Jerry  Tillford  is 
dramatized  helps  to  account  for  its  impact  upon  the  boy  at  the 
farmhouse  window  and  the  reader  looking  over  his  shoulder.  Even 
when  dramatized,  however,  the  knowledge  that  an  adult  is  capable 
of  good  and  evil  is  unlikely  to  have  the  powerful  effect  it  has  upon 
narrator  and  reader  unless  it  has  some  special  significance.  Some- 
thing about  the  nature  of  the  narrator's  relationship  and  experi- 


The  Image  of  the  Father  241 

ence  with  Jerry  Tillford  has  eluded  Brooks'  and  Warren's  analysis. 
It  has  eluded  it,  I  believe,  in  part  because  they  are  so  preoccupied 
with  the  moral  values  of  the  story  that  they  have  not  asked  the 
most  important  questions  which  must  be  answered  if  we  are  to 
account  for  the  story's  appeal. 

A  central  question,  as  I  have  indicated,  is  why  the  climactic 
scene  can  arouse  such  pain,  disgust  and  bitter  disillusionment  in 
the  boy  who  tells  the  story.  His  discovery  of  the  underside  of  Jerry 
Tillford  evidently  frustrates  some  yearning  he  can  scarcely  bear  to 
renounce.  Once  we  have  gone  this  far,  it  is  not  too  difficult  to 
identify  this  yearning:  it  is  for  an  ideal  relationship  with  a  man 
who  is  like  his  father  but  better  than  his  father — less  fallible,  more 
sympathetic  with  the  boy's  interests  and,  what  is  at  first  glance  a 
curious  requirement,  devoid  of  sexuality.  His  disappointment  is  the 
keener  because,  on  the  very  afternoon  of  the  experience  at  the 
farmhouse,  the  consummation  of  his  desire  seemed  within  reach — 
for  an  ecstatic  moment  had  actually  been  achieved. 

That  the  unnamed  narrator  of  "I  Want  to  Know  Why"  wanted 
to  adopt  Jerry  Tillford  as  a  kind  of  second  father  could  not  be 
more  clear.  Indeed,  it  could  be  maintained  that  the  boy's  feelings 
are  sometimes  too  baldly  revealed.  They  could  be  inferred  from 
the  few  things  he  says  about  his  father  and  various  incidental  re- 
marks about  the  trainer.  His  father  is  "all  right,"  and  evidently 
extremely  permissive  but  he  doesn't  make  much  money  and  so 
can't  buy  his  son  things.  The  boy  says  he  doesn't  care — he's  too 
old  for  that — but  since  he  has  just  listed  the  kind  of  presents 
Henry  Rieback  is  always  getting  from  his  father  we  doubt  his 
statement.  At  a  deeper  level,  we  sense,  the  boy  is  disappointed 
because  his  father  does  not  satisfy  an  immaterial  need:  he  evi- 
dently does  not  share  his  son's  interest  in  thoroughbreds  and  rac- 
ing. Jerry  Tillford,  of  course,  is  not  only  interested  in  these  subjects 
but  an  authority  upon  them,  and  his  job  puts  him  in  a  position  to 
befriend  the  boy  in  terms  of  his  interests.  He  has  let  the  boy  walk 
right  into  the  stalls  to  examine  horses,  and  so  on.  These  favors 
may  have  made  the  boy  think  of  Jerry  Tillford  as  a  kind  of  father. 
In  any  case,  the  language  the  boy  uses  to  describe  the  trainer's 
treatment  of  Sunstreak  shows  that  he  attributes  parental  kindliness 


242  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

to  him.  ("I  knew  he  had  been  watching  and  working  with  Sun- 
streak  since  the  horse  was  a  baby  colt  ...  I  knew  that  for  him 
it  was  like  a  mother  seeing  her  child  do  something  brave  or 
wonderful.") 

The  various  hints  given  us  about  the  narrator's  feelings  for  Jerry 
Tillford  are  confirmed  by  two  explicit  statements.  The  boy  de- 
clares, it  will  be  remembered,  that  on  the  afternoon  of  the  race 
he  liked  the  trainer  even  more  than  he  ever  liked  his  own  father. 
He  is  equally  frank  about  the  feelings  which  prompted  him  to 
"ditch"  his  companions  the  night  of  the  race  in  order  to  be  near 
the  trainer.  "I  was  just  lonesome  to  see  Jerry,  like  wanting  to  see 
your  father  at  night  when  you  are  a  young  kid." 

What  may  require  further  explanation — although  unconsciously 
we  understand  it  very  well — is  why  the  boy's  feelings  are  of  such 
extraordinary  strength  and  take  the  particular  form  they  do.  In 
part  his  hero  worship  of  Jerry  Tillford  is  a  not  uncommon  out- 
come of  an  interrelated  cluster  of  reactions  to  the  parents  which 
arise  in  children  of  both  sexes  during  latency  and  early  adoles- 
cence. The  fuller  knowledge  of  reality  children  acquire  at  this  stage 
of  their  development  and  the  resentment  they  feel  for  rebuffs, 
imaginary  or  real,  may  cause  them  to  become  acutely  aware  of  their 
parents'  circumstances  and  limitations.  Though  they  continue  to 
love  their  parents,  consciously  or  unconsciously  they  are  likely  to 
feel  dissatisfied  with  them  or  even  ashamed  of  them.  Frequently 
these  feelings  cause  children  to  replace  their  parents  in  fantasy — 
to  imagine  that  their  actual  parents  are  mere  pretenders  to  that 
honor  and  that  their  "real"  parents  are  personages  who  are  power- 
ful, famous  or  wealthy,  or  the  possessors  of  some  other  desired 
attribute.  The  children's  disaffection  may  also  impel  them  to  estab- 
lish relationships  with  adults  who  can  easily  be  recognized  as 
idealized  replacements  of  one  or  the  other  parent. 

In  boys  these  feelings  are  powerfully  reinforced  by  the  changes 
which  occur  at  puberty.  The  sudden  upsurge  of  sexuality  may  re- 
activate the  long-dormant  Oedipus  tendencies,  jeopardizing  and  in 
some  cases  at  least  temporarily  upsetting  the  still  far  from  stable 
identification  with  the  father.  The  wish  to  protect  this  identification 
against  the  reawakened  competitiveness  which  threatens  it  is  re- 


The  Image  of  the  Father  243 

sponsible  for  a  curious  secondary  development — an  attempt  to 
deny  the  sexuality  of  the  father  and,  by  an  inevitable  chain  of 
association,  of  the  mother  also.  Misguided  as  such  an  attempt  may 
appear,  it  has  its  own  logic.  Seen  as  a  sexual  being  enjoying  the 
favors  of  the  mother,  the  father  again  becomes  a  person  who 
arouses  envy,  hatred  and  fear.  The  knowledge  of  the  sexual  rela- 
tions of  the  parents  is  inherently  painful  and,  as  Freud  has  ex- 
plained, is  usually  conveyed  to  the  child  in  a  way  which  tends  to 
belittle  both  his  parents  and  himself.  For  this  reason,  too,  the 
information  is  usually  resisted. 

The  secret  of  sexual  life  is  revealed  to  [the  growing  boy]  in 
coarse  language,  undisguisedly  derogatory  and  hostile  in  intent, 
and  the  effect  is  to  destroy  the  authority  of  adults,  which  is  irre- 
concilable with  these  revelations  about  their  sexual  activities.  The 
greatest  impression  on  the  child  who  is  being  initiated  is  made  by 
the  relation  the  information  bears  to  his  own  parents,  which  is 
often  instantly  repudiated  in  some  such  words  as  these:  "It  may 
be  true  that  your  father  and  mother  and  other  people  do  such 
things,  but  it  is  quite  impossible  that  mine  do."  ("A  Special  Type 
of  Choice  of  Object  Made  by  Men.") 

Now  we  are  in  a  better  position  to  approach  the  two  contrasted 
scenes  which  do  so  much  to  make  "I  Want  to  Know  Why"  a  com- 
pelling story.  The  scene  at  the  paddocks  depicts  a  fervently  desired 
communion  with  an  idealized  and  desexualized  father,  a  father 
toward  whom  one  need  have  no  feelings  of  competitiveness  and 
hostility.  Moreover,  it  recalls  just  such  a  situation  of  innocence — 
it  recalls  the  pre-Oedipal  situation  in  which  the  feeling  of  father 
and  son  for  the  mother  was  a  bond  between  them  instead  of  the 
focus  of  rivalry,  and  father,  mother  and  child  were  united  in  love. 
In  this  scene  Sunstreak  becomes  the  mother,  and  the  boy  and  Jerry 
Tillford  are  brought  together  by  their  admiration  and  love  for  the 
stallion.  (Sunstreak  reminds  the  boy,  it  will  be  recalled,  of  "a 
girl  you  think  about  sometimes  but  never  see.") 

The  scene  at  the  rummy-looking  farmhouse  undoes  the  scene 
at  the  paddocks.  Jerry's  bragging,  which  is  at  the  expense  of  Sun- 
streak, reveals  that  he  has  no  real  love  for  the  stallion,  and  thus 
shows  the  boy  that  there  was  actually  no  foundation  for  the  ex- 


244  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

perience  he  thought  he  had  had  that  afternoon.  Because  the  boy 
identifies  with  the  stallion,  the  trainer's  boasts  are  also  a  blow  to 
his  self-esteem.  Finally,  the  boasts  show  how  unfit  the  trainer  is 
to  be  the  kind  of  parent  the  boy  had  desired. 

The  disclosure  of  Jerry's  sexuality  wounds  the  boy  still  more 
deeply.  Even  more  than  his  bragging,  it  disqualifies  the  trainer  for 
the  kind  of  relationship  the  boy  had  desired — a  relationship  which 
would  be  washed  of  all  competitiveness  and  enmity.  It  is  the  source 
of  a  more  encompassing  disillusionment.  It  forces  on  the  boy  the 
unwelcome  knowledge  that  this  is  a  sexual,  sinful  world,  in  which 
he  can  nowhere  hope  to  find  the  kind  of  communion  he  has  sought 
or  the  perfection  he  once  attributed  to  the  parents  and  later  hoped 
to  find  incarnated  in  others.  The  trainer's  behavior,  his  very  pres- 
ence at  the  whorehouse,  is  also  a  particularly  brutal  and  painful 
reminder  of  the  sexuality  of  the  parents — not  only  of  the  father, 
with  whom  Tillford  is  immediately  associated,  but  of  the  mother 
as  well.  She  is  present  in  this  scene  also.  She  is  the  woman  the 
trainer  desires,  the  one,  somewhat  more  attractive  than  the  others, 
who  resembles  the  gelding  Middlestride.  She  is  debased  to  a  prosti- 
tute, a  devaluation  which  almost  always  suggests  itself — though  of 
course  it  may  be  instantly  repudiated — when  an  adolescent  boy  is 
compelled  to  take  cognizance  of  the  sexual  relations  of  the  parents. 
Freud  describes  the  chain  of  reasoning  in  the  same  essay  from 
which  I  have  just  quoted: 

Along  with  this  piece  of  "sexual  enlightenment"  there  seldom 
fails  to  go,  as  a  corollary,  a  further  one  about  the  existence  of 
certain  women  who  practice  sexual  intercourse  as  a  means  of 
livelihood  and  are  universally  despised  in  consequence.  To  the 
boy  himself  this  contempt  is  necessarily  quite  foreign;  as  soon  as 
he  realizes  that  he  too  can  be  initiated  by  these  unfortunates  into 
that  sexual  life  which  he  has  hitherto  regarded  as  the  exclusive 
prerogative  of  '"grown-ups,"  his  feeling  for  them  is  only  a  mixture 
of  longing  and  shuddering.  Then,  when  he  cannot  any  longer 
maintain  the  doubt  that  claims  exception  for  his  own  parents 
from  the  ugly  sexual  behavior  of  the  rest  of  the  world,  he  says  to 
himself  with  cynical  logic  that  the  difference  between  his  mother 
and  a  whore  is  after  all  not  so  very  great,  since  at  bottom  they 
both  do  the  same  thing. 


The  Image  of  the  Father  245 

On  one  level  Jerry  Tillford's  behavior  is  wounding  because  it 
punctures  an  attempt  to  idealize  him,  to  deny  his  sexuality  and  the 
parents'.  On  still  another  level  it  is  wounding  because  it  has 
the  character  of  a  sexual  rejection  and  betrayal.  To  some  extent  the 
boy's  feelings  are  those  of  an  outraged  lover.  Logically  the  two 
sets  of  reactions  are  incompatible  with  one  another,  but  here,  as 
is  frequently  the  case,  fiction  is  speaking  to  a  part  of  the  psyche 
not  concerned  with  logic,  a  part  which  can  simultaneously  accom- 
modate divergent  and  even  contradictory  feelings. 

The  scene  at  the  farmhouse  gains  additional  poignance  by  stir- 
ring feelings  originally  experienced  at  different  periods  of  time. 
Like  the  scene  at  the  paddocks,  it  recalls  an  earlier  situation 
heavily  charged  with  emotion:  it  condenses  the  infantile  and  the 
adolescent  discoveries  of  sexuality.  On  the  immediate,  realistic 
level  the  scene  depicts  something  which  befalls  a  fifteen-year-old 
boy,  but  in  every  essential  respect  it  duplicates  the  "primal  scene," 
the  original  investigation  of  the  parents'  sexual  relations.  The  look- 
ing, the  secrecy,  the  mixture  of  fascination  and  horror,  the  am- 
bivalence about  whether  one  will  "find  anything,"  the  feeling  of 
being  alone  and  betrayed  when  one  does  find  what  underneath 
one  did  expect — all  the  characteristics  of  the  prototype  experience 
are  echoed  here. 

Although  only  the  unconscious  is  likely  to  perceive  it,  in  the 
last  analysis  both  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  and  "I  Want 
to  Know  Why"  are  stories  of  a  boy's  relationship  with  his  father. 
Both  describe  more  or  less  universal  phases  of  the  process  of 
growing  up,  although,  as  in  great  fiction  generally,  the  actual  events 
are  so  altered  that  they  may  not  be  consciously  recognizable,  and 
so  telescoped  and  heightened  that  they  arouse  even  profounder 
affects  than  the  less  dramatic  and  more  gradual  experiences  they 
draw  upon  and  evoke.  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  concen- 
trates on  the  young  man's  rebellious  and  hostile  feelings  toward 
an  authoritative  image  of  the  father — an  image  which  must  be 
destroyed  in  the  course  of  achieving  independent  adulthood.  "I 
Want  to  Know  Why"  describes  the  frustration  of  two  dear  but 
unfulfillable  wishes  of  the  adolescent  boy.  The  first  wish  is  to  deny 


246  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  sexuality  of  the  parents  in  order  to  avoid  competition  with  the 
father.  This  wish  is  incompatible  with  what  one  inevitably  learns 
in  growing  up  and  on  some  deep  level  already  knows.  The  second 
wish  is  for  a  love  relationship  with  the  father  which,  though  ideal- 
ized in  some  respects,  is  still  so  heavily  cathected  with  libido  that 
its  satisfaction  would  involve  both  continued  dependence  upon 
the  father  and  a  proprietary  right  to  his  affection. 

Although  both  stories  refer  ultimately  to  emotions  felt  by  sons 
for  their  fathers,  it  is  interesting  that  in  each  case  the  feelings  are 
displaced  onto  surrogates.  In  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux"  the 
advantage  of  the  alteration  is  evident:  it  facilitates  the  expression 
of  hostility.  "I  Want  to  Know  Why"  is  probably  both  more  realistic 
and  more  moving  because  the  immediate  object  of  the  hero's  feel- 
ings is  just  such  a  man  as  Jerry  Tillford.  By  the  time  a  boy  is 
fifteen  the  feelings  of  affection  for  the  actual  father  are  usually  too 
admixed  with  other  elements,  the  disillusionment  too  advanced,  to 
permit  the  sharp  contrasts  of  hopes  raised  and  abruptly  deflated 
upon  which  the  structure  and  impact  of  the  story  depend. 


Nathan  Leites 


The  Stranger 


Albert  Camus'  The  Stranger x  is  one  of  the  most 
prominent  post-1939  French  novels,  and  one  which  has  been 
widely  regarded  as  conveying  a  new  "philosophical"  message. 
This  paper  is  not  concerned  with  the  connections  between  the 
novel  and  the  philosophical  writings  of  the  author  (in  particular 
Le  my  the  de  Sisyphe,  1942).  It  attempts  to  trace  relationships 
between  the  novel  and  certain  trends  in  the  temper  of  the  age.  In 
doing  so,  it  offers  a  psychological  interpretation  of  the  content  of 
the  novel 2  and  confronts  this  interpretation  with  those  of  a  sample 
of  American  critics. 

The  outline  of  the  plot  is  as  follows:  Meursault,  a  small  French 
clerk  in  Algiers,  receives  news  of  his  mother's  death;  he  attends 
her  funeral;  he  begins  an  affair  and  becomes  engaged;  he  kills, 
under  a  blazing  sun,  without  any  adequate  conscious  motivation 
the  brother  of  an  Arab  prostitute  whose  pimp  he  vaguely  knows; 
he  is  condemned  to  death  and  will  presently  be  executed.  He  is 
the  narrator. 

Three  attitudes  may  be  taken  toward  the  hero.  First,  that  he  is 
the  incarnation  of  a  metaphysical  affirmation  which  is  known  to 

"247 


248  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

be  held  by  the  author.  Thus  Justin  O'Brien  (New  York  Herald 
Tribune,  April  14,  1946)  quotes  a  passage  from  Camus'  Le  my  the 
de  Sisyphe  ("The  world  that  can  be  explained  .  .  .  even  with 
false  reasons  is  a  familiar  world.  But  in  a  universe  .  .  .  deprived 
of  illusions  and  enlightenment,  man  feels  himself  a  stranger.  .  .  . 
This  divorce  between  man  and  his  life  .  .  .  is  .  .  .  the  feeling  of 
absurdity"),  and  says,  "Here  is  the  key  to  the  novel.  Meursault, 
the  unintentional  murderer,  enacts  a  parable  of  man's  fate.  Since 
there  is  .  .  .  free  will,  he  must  have  been  free  to  kill  or  not  to  kill. 
But  he  cannot  see  it  that  way;  if  there  was  no  other  coercion,  there 
was  that  of  the  dazzling  sun." 

Second,  the  hero  may  be  considered  unintelligible^  Thus  Ed- 
mund Wilson  {The  New  Yorker,  April  13,  1946)  says  about  the 
hero  that  "as  a  human  being  he  seems  to  me  incredible;  his  be- 
havior is  never  explained  or  made  plausible.  .  .  .  The  queer  state 
of  mind  of  the  protagonist .  .  .  [is]  never  accounted  for." 

Critics  have  tended  to  take  one,  or  both,  of  these  positions.  A 
third^  position,  which  shall  be  set  forth  here,  is  that  Meursault's 
behavior  is  largely  intelligible.  .  .  . 

The  novel  contains  only  few  explicit  indications — almost  entirely 
overlooked  even  by  the  sophisticated  critics-r-about  the  hero's  past. 
But  these  few  are  quite  significant.  As  to  his  father,  "I  never  set 
eyes  on  him"  (p.  138).  As  to  his  mother,  "For  years  she'd  never 
had  a  word  to  say  to  me  and  I  could  see  she  was  moping  with  no 
one  to  talk  to"  (p.  58) ;  ".  .  .  neither  Mother  nor  I  expected  much 
of  one  another  (n'attendions  plus  rien  Vun  de  V autre)"  (p.  109). 
"As  a  student  I'd  had  plenty  of  ambition.  .  .  .  But  when  I  had  to 
drop  my  studies,  I  very  soon  realized  all  that  was  pretty  futile 
(sans  importance  reelle)"  (p.  52).  The  child  and  the  adolescent 
are  thus  shown  as  reacting  with  withdrawal  of  conscious  affect  in 
intrapersonal  relations  (that  is,  the  relations  between  the  various 
components  of  the  self)  and  in  interpersonal  relations.  He  is  thus 
reacting  to  the  guilty  rage  induced  by  the  severe  deprivations  which 
were  imposed  by  an  absent  father,  an  indifferent  mother,  and  a 
withholding  wider  environment. 

It  is  this  characteristic  defense  which  the  hero  perpetuates  and 
elaborates  in  his  adult  life,  and  which  gives  his  personality — con- 


The  Stranger  249 

veyed  in  a  style  appropriate  to  this  dominant  trait — its  particular 
aura.  I  shall  now  discuss  the  various  major  manifestations  of  the_ 
hero's  affectlessness^ 

Firstly,  and  most  obviously,  the  hero  is  usually  rather  clearly 
aware  of  the  absence  or  weakness  of  affects  in  response  to  intra- 
personal  and  interpersonal  stimuli.3  "I  could  truthfully  say  I'd 
been  quite  fond  of  (j'aimais  bien)  mother — but  really  that  didn't 
mean  much  (cela  ne  voulait  rien  dire)"  (p.  80).  His  affects  appear 
to  him  as  questionable  rather  than  as  inevitable  and  valid;  "I  came 
to  feel  that  this  aversion  [against  talking  about  certain  things — 
N.L.]  had  no  real  substance  {je  n'ai  plus  trouve  d'importance  a 
ces  repugnances)"  (p.  89).  He  is  much  aware  of  the  almost  total 
dependence  of  his  affective  on  his  somatic  state  (cf.  p.  80) — con- 
forming though  in  extreme  fashion  to  what  is  probably  a  contem- 
porary trend. 

.While  the  hero  is  acutely  aware  of  his  atypicality  as  a  "jjtranr 
ger" .  to  the  world,  he  spontaneoustgsubsumes  most  of  his  few 
near-affective  experiences  in  interpersonal  relations  under  general 
categories.  When  his  lawyer  asks  him  whether  he  had  loved  his 
mother,  he  replies  "yes,  like  everybody  else"  (p.  83).  When  his  girl 
friend  asks  him  "Suppose  another  girl  had  asked  you  to  marry  her 
— I  mean  a  girl  you  liked  in  the  same  way  as  you  like  me — would 
you  have  said  'Yes'  to  her  too?"  the  hero  does  not  find  such  a 
hypothesis  inconceivable  and  his  emotions  toward  Marie  unique. 
He  answers,  apparently  effortlessly:  "Naturally"  (p.  53).  In  this, 
he  presumably  manifests  a  widely  diffused  trend  in  the  quality  of 
Western  "love"  experiences  in  this  century. 

It  may  be  surmised  that  such  "generalizing"  procedures  are  in 
part  a  defense  against  the  unconscious  threat  of  overwhelming 
affect.  When  "the  "herb  learns  of  his  mother's  death,  he  arranges 
for  keeping  "the  usual  vigil"  (p.  1)  beside  the  body.  The  owner 
of  his  habitual  restaurant  affirms  "there's  no  one  like  a  mother" 
(p.  2)  and  lends  him  a  black  tie  and  mourning  band  procured  for 
the  occasion  of  an  uncle's  death. 

The  hero  shows  a  high  degree  of  detachment  toward  decisive 
impacts  of  his  environment  on  him.  During  most  of  his  trial  he  feels 
as  if  somebody  else  is  about  to  be  condemned  to  death.  ".  .  .  He 


250  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

["one  of  my  policemen" — NX.]  asked  me  if  I  was  feeling  nervous. 
I  said:  No,  and  that  the  prospect  of  witnessing  a  trial  rather  inter- 
ested me"  (p.  103).  When  danger  mounts,  "the  futility  of  what 
was  happening  (tout  ce  que  je  faisais  d 'inutile  en  ce  lieu)  seemed 
to  take  me  by  the  throat"  (p.  132). 

All  value  judgments  have  ceased  to  be  self-evident,  as  they  have 
in  some  variants  of  contemporary  empiricist  epistemology.  There  is 
a  tabula  rasa  where  the  traditional  ethical  postulates  stood.  But  the 
hero  attains  at  the  end  a  state  of  exaltation  in  contemplating  the 
certain  facts  of  his  present  aliveness  and  impending  annihilation: 
"It  might  look  as  if  my  hands  were  empty.  Actually,  I  was  sure  of 
myself,  sure  about  everything,  far  surer  than  he  [the  prison  chap- 
lain— N.L.]:  sure  of  my  present  life  and  of  the  death  that  was 
coming.  That,  no  doubt,  was  all  I  had;  but  at  least  that  certainty 
was  something  I  could  get  my  teeth  into — just  as  it  had  got  its 
teeth  into  me  (je  tenais  cette  verite  autant  qu'elle  me  tenait)" 
(p.  151).  The  cathexis  withdrawn  from  norms  is  in  part  displaced 
to  very  general  aspects  of  facts. 

Choices  made,  then,  appear  as  quite  inevitable  and  correct  (for 
they  have  been  made)  and  as  quite  arbitrary  (for  they  were 
choices).  In  his  final  exaltation  the  hero  comes  to  feel  that  "I'd 
been  right,  I  was  still  right,  I  was  always  right.  I'd  passed  my  life 
in  a  certain  way  and  I  might  have  passed  it  in  a  different  way.  .  .  . 
I'd  acted  thus  and  I  hadn't  acted  otherwise.  .  .  .  And  what  did  that 
mean?  That,  all  the  time,  I  had  been  waiting  for  this  present  mo- 
ment, for  that  dawn  [of  execution — N.L.]  .  .  .  which  was  to  justify 
me"  (pp.  151,  152). 

The  hero  abstains  from  morally  reacting  to  others  as  much  as 
to  himself  (cf.  pp.  34,  45).  His  incapacity  for  moral  indignation  is 
again  related  to  certain  contemporary  trends. 

What  are  the  behavioral  counterparts  to  the  hero's  vabieless- 
ness?  His  tendency  is  to  minimize  overt  action,  symbolic  as  well 
as  motor.  He  tends  to  react  with  silence  to  communications  of 
others,  perpetuating  the  wordlessness  of  his  relations  with  his 
mother.  He  shows  ?  preference  for  the  mmntp.nanr.p.ni  his  personal 
status  quo,  at  any  given  rnnment  and  with  reference  to  his  overall 
mode  of  life.  When  an  evening  conversation  imposed  on  him  is 


The  Stranger  251 

prolonged,  he  feels  that  "I  wanted  to  be  in  bed,  only  it  was  such  an 
effort  making  a  move"  (p.  41  X»  When  his  employer  offers  him  a 
Paris  job,  "I  saw  no  reason  for  'changing  my  life'  "  (p.  52)TGet- 
ting  out  of  bed  requires  an  intense  effort. 

Whenever  he  contemplates  alternative  courses  of  action,  he.  he- 
comes  convinced  that  they  jead  to  an  identical  result  Thus  nothing 
is  a  "serious  matter  (une  chose  grave)"  (p.  53).  When  his  boss 

nffprgjrrm_ a  Parjs  job,  "really  T  didn't  rare,  mnr.h  nnp.  way  or  the 
other  (dans  le  iond  celn  wLhwt  pvaW"  fp  52)  When  he  is  present 
at  a  tense  underworld  encounter  which  may  instantly  develop  into 
shooting,  "it  crossed  my  mind  that  one  might  fire  or  not  fire — and 
it  would  come  to  absolutely  the  same  thing  {tout  cela  se  valait)" 
~(P.  172).  .  . 

Correspondingly,  the  hero  tends  to  feel  a  situation  as  invariant 
which  according  to  the  judgment  of  non-"strangers"  has  varied 
radically.  When  his  boss,  offering  him  a  Paris  job,  stresses  the 
advantages  of  a  "change  of  life,"  "I  answered  that  one  never 
changed  his  way  of  life"  (p.  52). 

"Xhe_same  thing"  to  which  all  conceivable  courses  of  action  lead 
is  a  negative  thing.  When  the  hero  accompanies  the  coffiri~oTTiis 
mother  to  the  cemetery  in  the  Algerian  heat,  he  isjold:  "IfLxou 
go  too  slowly  there's  the  risk  of  a  heat  stroke.  Butjfjyou  go  joo 
fast,  you  perspire  and  the  cold  air  in  the  church  gives  you  a  chill" 
(p.  21).  He  adds:  "I  saw  .  .  .  [the]  point:  either  way  one  was  in 
fnr  if  (jl  n'y  nvnit  pax  d'issue_)"  (p.  21).  There  is  no  conceivable 
intermediate  optimal  point  between  too  much  and  too  little.  Simi- 
lariy— ancT  again  with  the  heat  in  the  role  of  the  great  depriver — 
at  a  certain  point  during  the  morning  which  ends  with  the  crime, 
the  hero  stands  before  a  house  he  is  expected  to  enter:  "...  I 
couldn't  face  the  effort  needed  to  go  up  the  steps  and  make  myself 
amiable  to  the  women.  But  the  heat  was  so  great  that  it  was  just  as 
bad  staying  where  I  was.  ...  To  stay  or  to  make  a  move — it  came 
to  much  the  same  (cela  revenait  au  meme).  After  a  moment  I  re- 
turned to  the  beach"  (p.  73) — a  move  which  leads  to  the  murder. 
"One  is  cooked  both  ways"  because  death  is  the  terminal  state 
of  any  sequence  of  acts — which  is  therefore  equivalent  to  any  other 
sequence.  "I^othing^jaothing  had  the  lcaat-iffl-portance,  and  I  knew 


252  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

quite  well  why.  .  .  .  From  the  dark  horizon  of  my  future  a  sort  of 
slow,  persistent  breeze  had  been  blowing  towards  me,  all  my  life 
long,  from  the  years  that  were  to  come.  And  on  its  way  that  breeze 
S  had  leveled  out  {egalisait)  all  the  ideas  that  people  tried  to  foist 
on  me.  .  .  .  What  difference  could  .  .  .  [it]  make  ...  the  way  a 
man  decides  to  live,  the  fate  ...  he  chooses,  since  one  and  the 
same  fate  was  bound  to  'choose'  not  only  me  but  thousands  of  mil- 
lions of  privileged  people.  . . .  Every  man  alive  was  privileged;  there 
was  only  one  class  of  men,  the  privileged  class.  And  all  alike  would 
be  condemned  to  die  one  day.  .  .  .  And  what  difference  could  it 
make  if  ...  he  [the  prison  chaplain  instead  of  the  hero — N.L.] 
were  executed  .  .  .  since  it  all  came  to  the  same  thing  in  the  end?" 
(p.  152}.  This  indifferentism  with  the  horizon  of  death  acts  mani- 
fesTly  as  a  defense  against  distress.  Despairing  of  his  girl  friend's 
faithfulness,  the  hero  asks  in  the  context  of  the  passage  just  quoted: 
"What  did  it  matter  if  at  this  very  moment  Marie  was  kissing  a  new 
boy  friend?"  (p.  153).  The  fatherless  and  motherless  (in  more 
than  one  sense)  murderer  asks:  "What  difference  could  they  make 
to  me,  the  deaths  of  others,  or  a  mother's  love  or  .  .  .  God?" 
(p.  152).  Awaiting  execution  and  faintly  hoping  for  the  success 
of  his  appeal,  the  hero  attempts  with  conscious  and  only  partly 
successful  effort  to  make  himself  see  that  "it  makes  little  difference 
whether  one  dies  at  the  age  of  thirty  or  three  score  and  ten.  .  .  . 
Whether  I  die  now  or  forty  years  hence,  this  business  of  dying  had 
to  be  got  through,  inevitably"  (pp.  142-43). 

Presumably  the  belief  in  death  as  annihilation  has  been,  and  is, 
spreading  and  deepening  in  Western  culture.  Reactions  to  this 
major  trend  seem  to  be  (as  one  would  expect)  polarized.  On  the 
one  hand  there  is  an  increasing  tendency  to  "scotomize"  death,  i.e. 
to  minimize  its  role  in  conscious  awareness.  On  the  other  hand, 
a  breakthrough  of  this  awareness  may  dominate  the  consciousness 
of  the  individual  in  a  somewhat  new  fashion:  The  massive  fact  of 
death  may  appear  as  establishing  the  pointlessness  of  life  beyond 
any  possibility  of  mitigation.  The  tabula  rasa  as  to  previous  con- 
ceptions of  Good  and  Evil  may  thus  be  accompanied  by  a  tabula 
rasa  as  to  previous  conceptions  of  the  Meaningful  Life. 

But  the  residual  certainty  of  the  very  fact  of  life  which  is  accen- 


The  Stranger  253 

tuated  when  valuelessness  has  been  established  may  become  the 
new  meaning-creating  factor:  If  death  is  annihilation,  life — all  we 
have — is  infinitely  precious  J^a  resurgence  of  the  carpe  diem  theme 
in  "highbrow"  speculation  which  has  often  accompanied  the  break- 
down of  civilizations).  This  is  the  metaphysical  and  axiological 
aspect  of  the  passage  on  "certainty"  quoted  above.  The  sentence 
quoted  "every  man  alive  was  privileged"  may  thus  become  one 
denying  or  affirming  the  meaningfulness  of  life  according  to 
whether  the  temporariness  or  the  availability  of  the  "privilege"  is 
stressed.  If  the  positive  accent  is  chosen,  the  desired  though  un- 
obtainable "life  after  the  grave"  appears  as  "a  life  in  which  I  can 
remember  this  life  on  earth.  That's  all  I  want  of  it!"  (p.  150).  The 
hero  attempts  to  get  rid  of  the  intruding  prison  chaplain  as  "I'd 
very  little  time  left  and  I  wasn't  going  to  waste  it  on  God"  (p.  150) . 
But  there  is  a  price  to  this  reversal:  The  affects  which  the  negative 
view  intended  to  ward  off  by  the  depreciation  of  life  reappear.  The 
hero  awaiting  the  coming  of  the  executioners  every  dawn  knows 
every  morning  that  "I  might  just  as  well  have  heard  footsteps  and 
felt  my  heart  shattered  into  bits"  (p.  152).  On  the  other  hand  in- 
termittent fantasies  of  survival  give  him  the  task  "to  calm  down 
that  sudden  rush  of  joy  racing  through  my  body  and  even  bring- 
ing tears  to  my  eyes"  (p.  143).  Thus  belief  in  the  meaninglessness 
of  life  appears  in  the  hero  related  to  the  successful  repression  of 
affect,  and  belief  in  its  meaningfulness  to  the  return  of  the  re- 
pressed from  repression. 

What  typical  conscious  motivations  remain  available  to  the 
hero  in  his  predominant  negative  phases?  The  hero  tends  tochoose 
a  certain  action  "for  want  of  anvthine  better  to  do"  oFaiT"!  had 
nothing  to  do"  or  "as_aja,fit  resource"  n gainst  the  unspecified  dis- 
pleasure of  more  complete  inaction.  He  tends  to  comply  with  de- 
mands made  on  him  in  a  "why  not?"  fashion.  When  his  pimp 
acquaintance  asks  him  for  a  favor  "I  wrote  the  letter  [requested — 
N.L.]  ...  I  wanted  to  satisfy  Raymond  as  I'd  no  reason  not  to 
satisfy  him"  (p.  41).  When  the  pimp  thereupon  says  "so  now  we 
are  pals,  ain't  we?  (tu  es  un  vrai  copain),  I  kept  silence  and  he 
said  it  again.  I  didn't  care  one  way  or  the  other,  but  he  seemed 
so  set  on  it,  I  nodded  and  said  'yes'  "  (p.  41 ) .  When  his  boss  offers 


254  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

him  a  Paris  job,  "I  told  him  I  was  quite  prepared  to  go;  but  really 
I  didn't  care  much  one  way  or  the  other"  (p.  52).  When  his  girl 
friend  asks  him  if  he  would  marry  her,  "I  said  I  didn't  mind;  if 
she  was  keen  on  it,  we'd  get  married."  When  she  objects  to  this 
reaction,  "I  pointed  out  that  ...  the  suggestion  came  from  her;  as 
for  me,  I'd  merely  said  'yes'  "  (p.  53). 

Presumably  the  predominance  of  such  "negative  motivations','  is 
overdetermined.  Affectlessness  is  here  not  only  a  defense  against 
the  various  f  antasied  dangers  of  involvement  but  also  an  instrument 
of  aggression  against  (and  contempt  for)  those  persons  who  ex- 
pect a  fuller  response  from  the  hero.  JThe^  aggression  proceeds  by 
spiteful  obedience:  Demands  are  complied  with  in  the  letter  but 
not  m  the  spirit. 

A  major  "positive"  motivation  of  the  hero  is  sleep,  functioning 
as  defense  against  the  overwhelming  impact  of  dangerous  stimuli. 
It  makes  him  feel  good  to  look  forward  to  sleep  in  a  short  while. 
At  a  certain  "evening  hour  ...  I  always  felt  so  well  content  with 
life  (je  me  sentais  content).  Then,  what  awaited  me  was  a  night 
of  easy  dreamless  sleep"  (p.  13).  "I  can  remember  .  .  .  my  little 
thrill  of  pleasure  when  we  entered  the  first  brightly  lit  streets  of 
Algiers  [returning  from  his  mother's  funeral — N.L.]  and  I  pictured 
myself  going  straight  to  bed  and  sleeping  twelve  hours  at  a  stretch" 
(p.  22). 

Where  other  psychic  structures  would  react  with  intense  affect, 
the  hero  tends  to  react  with  fatigue  and  somnolence — which  he 
often  attributes  to  the  external  physical  rather  than  to  an  internal 
psychic  "heat"  (cf.  pp.  2,  132-33). 

To  the  high  tendency  toward  sleep  corresponds  the  vagueness 
and  poverty  of  internal  and  external  psychic  perceptions  during 
the  hero's  waking  hours  (as  implied  in  footnote  3,  his  perception 
of  nonhuman  aspects  of  his  environment  was  rich  and  acute). 
Low  awareness  of  self  is  shown  in  extreme  fashion  when  the 
hero  after  a  long  time  in  prison  suddenly  "heard  something  that 
I  hadn't  heard  for  months.  It  was  the  sound  of  a  voice;  my  own 
voice,  there  was  no  mistaking  it.  And  I  recognized  it  as  the  voice 
that  for  many  a  day  of  late  had  been  sounding  in  my  ears.  So  I 
know  that  all  this  time  I'd  been  talking  to  myself"  (p.  101).  Simi- 


The  Stranger  255 

larly,  the  hero  at  important  occasions — where,  again,  he  is  apt, 
projectively,  to  hold  the  heat  of  the  day  responsible — fails  to  hear 
or  to  understand  correctly  what  others  are  saying  to  him  or  about 
him.  When  his  lawyer  pleads  for  him  in  court,  "I  found  that  my 
mind  had  gone  blurred;  everything  was  dissolving  with  a  grayish, 
watery  haze  {tout  devenait  comme  une  eau  incolore  ou  je  trouvais 
le  vertige)"  (p.  312). 

More  particularly,  the  hero — jtaj/mgjmterfered  so  severely  with 
Jjis  own  affects— isjiighlyinhibite d  in  the  per cepUQiiQf^aff eels  of 
others,  especially  of  those  having  himself  as  their  target  This  lack 
of  empathy  facilitates  the  unconsciously  aggressive  and  self-puni- 
tive candidness  of  the  hero,  which  will  be  discussed  below,  and 
which  the  critics  take  at  its  face  value  as  uncompromising  honesty. 
The  same  trait  also  induces  a  poverty  of  the  prognostic  horizon. 
After  the  hero  has  witnessed  an  altercation  between  the  pimp  and 
a  policeman,  the  pimp  tells  him  "he'd  like  to  know  if  I'd  expected 
him  to  return  the  blow  when  the  policeman  hit  him.  I  told  him 
I  hadn't  expected  anything  whatsoever  (je  n'attendais  rien  du 
tout)"  (p.  47). 

Affects  of  others,  if  perceived,  appear  "embarrassing"  (cf.  p. 
88).  Explicit  or  implicit  demands  of  others  to  express  empathy 
(and  sympathy)  by  words  responding  to  their  words,  or  to  express 
other  nuances  of  affect,  tend  to  elicit  a  "/  have  nothing  to  say" 
reaction.  fSfren  the  hero's  girl  friend  answers  his  indifferent  mar- 
riage consent  by  declaring  that  she  "loves"  him  because  he's  a 
"queer  fellow,"  but  that  she  might  "hate"  him  someday,  the  hero 
reports:  "to  which  I  had  nothing  to  say,  so  I  said  nothing"  (p.  53). 
When  the  magistrate  asks  the  hero  about  his  "reputation  of  being 
a  taciturn,  rather  self-centered  person"  (p.  82),  the  hero  answered: 
"Well,  I  rarely  have  anything  much  to  say.  So  naturally  I  keep  my 
mouth  shut."  His  habitual  silence  is  thus  not  based  on  conscious 
restraint  against  verbalizing  a  rich  subjectivity,  as  one  recognizes 
the  limitations  of  words  and  values  privacy.  It  is  a  silence  express^ 
ing  subjective  void./  Only  in  rare  and  fugitive~instances"does  this 
void  appear  as  a  disguise  of  plenitude.  At  one  moment  during  his 
trial  the  hero  feels  like  "cutting  them  all  short  and  saying:  '.  .  . 


256  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

I've  something  really  important  to  tell  you.'  However,  on  second 
thought,  I  found  I  had  nothing  to  say"  (p.  124). 

In  many  instances  the  hero  has  nothing  to  say  because  he  experi- 
ences what  others  say  as  meaningless.  (One  may  recall  the  central 
importance,  in  contemporary  empiricist  epistemology,  of  the  desig- 
nation of  certain  types  of  sentences  as  "meaningless" — and  hence 
neither  "true"  nor  "false" — which  had  been  regarded  as  "meaning- 
ful" before.)  This  is  particularly  the  case  when  others  talk  about 
the  hero's  subjective  experiences.  When  the  examining  magistrate, 
using  an  "intimate"  technique,  tells  the  hero  "what  really  inter- 
ests me  is — you!"  (p.  82),  "I  wasn't  quite  clear  what  he  meant, 
so  I  made  no  comment"  (p.  82).  When  his  lawyer  asks  him 
whether  he  had  felt  grief  when  his  mother  died,  "I  answered  that 
of  recent  years  I'd  rather  lost  the  habit  of  noting  my  feelings 
(m'interroger)  and  hardly  knew  what  to  answer"  (p.  80).  When 
Marie  "asked  me  if  I  loved  her,  I  said  that  sort  of  question  had  no 
meaning  really  (cela  ne  voulait  rien  dire),  but  I  supposed  I  didn't" 
(p.  44).  When  Marie  asks  again  sometime  later,  "I  replied  much 
as  before  that  her  question  meant  nothing  or  next  to  nothing  {cela 
ne  signifiait  rien) — but  I  supposed  I  didn't"  (p.  52).  His  sen- 
tences on  one's  own  affects  appear  either  as  meaningless  or  as 
difficult  to  test — but  never  as  evidently  true  or  false,  a  quality 
which  earlier  epistemology  usually  attributed  to  introspective  state- 
ments. 

The  syndrome  of  affectlessness  which  I  have  sketched  in  the 
preceding  passages  is  a  largely  ego-syntonic  one.  The  hero  does  not 
share  in  the  historically  typical  despair  about,  and  revolt  against, 
psychic  impotence — a  change  which  is  probably,  again,  related  to 
contemporary  trends.  When  his  boss  offers  him  a  Paris  job,  the 
hero  declares  that  "my  present  .  .  .  [life]  suited  me  quite  well.  .  .  . 
I  saw  no  reason  for  'changing  my  life.'  By  and  large  it  wasn't  an 
unpleasant  one"  (p.  52).  While  he  is  incapable  of  "explaininj£_his 
subjective  state,  it  isn't  a  problem  for  him  either.  Affectlessness  is 
reacted  to  affectlessly. 

Such  is  the  syndrome  which  dominates  the  usual  life  atmosphere 
of  the  hero.  But  besides  the  affect  inhibitions  hitherto  described 
the  hero  shows  a  set  of  affect  substitutes.  Some  of  them  are  somatic. 


The  Stranger  257 

When  the  hero  leaves  a  consciously  entirely  flat  conversation  with 
the  pimp,  "I  could  hear  nothing  but  the  blood  throbbing  in  my 
ears  and  for  a  while  I  stood  still,  listening  to  it"  (p.  42).  Other 
affect  substitutes  are  nonsomatic.  Certain  perceptions  of  detail, 
closely  associated  with  the  central  matters  to  which  the  hero  does 
not  react  consciously,  show  a  high  intensity  and  at  the  same  time 
unreality.  When  he  is  holding  a  wake  at  the  coffin  of  his  mother 
without  any  conscious  grief,  ten  of  her  friends  are  with  him: 
"Never  in  my  life  had  I  seen  anyone  so  clearly  as  I  saw  these 
people.  .  .  .  And  yet ...  it  was  hard  to  believe  they  really  existed" 
(p.  10).  At  the  funeral  itself  he  perceives  in  a  father  figure — the 
"boy  friend"  of  his  mother  in  the  home  for  the  aged — the  somatic 
image  of  his  affect  inhibition:  "His  eyes  were  streaming  with  tears. 
.  .  .  But  because  of  the  wrinkles  [in  his  face — N.L.]  they  couldn't 
flow  down.  They  spread  out,  crisscrossed  and  formed  a  smooth 
gloss  on  the  old,  worn  face"  (pp.  21-22).  The  hero  is  bored  by 
the  prosecutor's  speech  at  his  trial:  "The  only  things  that  really 
caught  my  attention  were  occasional  phrases,  his  gestures,  and 
some  elaborate  tirades — but  these  were  isolated  patches"  (p. 
124). 4 

Related  to  such  affect  substitutes  is  doubt  about  details  closely 
associated  with  central  matters.  The  novel  begins  with  a  doubt 
about  a  detail  of  the  mother's  affectlessly  experienced  death — 
reminiscent  of  Leonardo's  slip  (cf.  Freud,  Vol.  VIII,  pp.  190-91) 
in  his  diary  notation  of  his  father's  death:  "Mother  died  today. 
Or,  maybe,  yesterday.  I  can't  be  sure.  The  telegram  from  the  Home 
says:  your  mother  passed  away,  funeral  tomorrow,  deep 
sympathy.  Which  leaves  the  matter  doubtful;  it  could  have  been 
yesterday"  (p.  1).  .  .  . 

I  have  up  to  now  discussed  the  hero's  defenses  against  affect. 
What  are  the  particular  affects  which  have  been  repressed,  and 
whose  repression  is  secured  by  the  defenses  described?  Jjshall. sug- 
gest that  a  major  affect  involved  is  murderous  rage  ^originally 
directed  against  the  deprivingjDarents^ 

Most  of  the  evidence  for  this  hypothesis  has  been  neglected  by 
the  critics,  who  have  thus  not  conveyed  a  full  picture  of  the  hero's 
manifest  syndrome.  When  Edmund  Wilson   {The  New  Yorker, 


258  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

April  13,  1946)  considers  the  possibility  of  latent  destructive 
tendencies  of  the  hero,  he  rejects  it  as  incompatible  with  his  affect- 
lessness:  "At  the  moments  when  he  [Meursault]  has  to  decide 
whether  to  act  in  some  definite  way,  he  always  thinks  to  himself, 
'After  all,  it  will  make  no  difference  whether  I  do  or  do  not  do 
this!'  But  the  fact  is  that  in  spite  of  his  supposed  indifference,  he 
does  decide  one  way  and  not  the  other.  He  agrees  to  write  the 
letter  for  the  pimp  [to  an  unfaithful  prostitute  on  whom  the  pimp 
wants  to  avenge  himself — N.L.],  thus  abetting  him  in  an  act  of 
malevolence;  therefore,  he  was  either  not  indifferent  to  the  interests 
of  his  acquaintance  or  not  indifferent  to  the  pimp's  purpose  of  do- 
ing something  mean  to  the  girl.  And  since  his  killing  of  the  Arab 
is  deliberate  ...  he  is,  again,  either  not  indifferent  to  the  welfare 
of  the  pimp  [whose  enemy  the  Arab,  the  brother  of  the  unfaithful 
prostitute,  is — N.L.]  or  not  indifferent  to  killing  an  Arab.  .  .  . 
These  acts  of  his  which  are  inconsistent  with  the  assumption  that 
he  is  genuinely  indifferent  are  never  accounted  for."  However, 
conscious  indifference  and  intense  unconscious  destructiveness  are 
not  only  a  possible  but  even  a  typical  combination. 
.JThe^hero  presumably  experiences  intense  guilt  about  the  death 
of  his  mother,  toward  whom  he  has  felt  conscious,  though  con- 
sciously feeble,  death  wishes  (pp.  14,  80).  In  accordance  with 
his  overall  techniques  of  defense  against  affect,  he  has  largely  re- 
pressed guilt  feelings.  When  the  magistrate  asks  him  whether  he 
regrets  his  murder,  he  answers  that  "what  I  felt  was  less  regret 
(du  regret  veritable)  than  a  kind  of  vexation  (un  certain  ennui)" 
(p.  87).  When  the  public  prosecutor  accuses  him  of  his  lack  of 
guilt  feelings  about  the  murder,  "I'd  have  liked  to  have  a  chance 
of  explaining  to  him  in  a  quite  friendly,  almost  affectionate  way, 
but  I  have  never  been  able  really  to  regret  anything  in  all  my  life" 
(p.  127). 

Having  repressed  his  guilt  feelings,  the  hero  additionally  projects 
the  accuser  into  the  outer  world.  While  he  consciously  feels  inno- 
cent of  his  mother's  death,  he  believes  exaggeratedly  or  at  least 
prematurely  that  others  accuse  him  of  it,  or  of  his  behavior  in  con- 
nection with  it.  (As  will  be  seen  below,  he  behaves  presumably  in 
part  with  the  unconscious  intent  of  provoking  accusations.)  He 


The  Stranger  259 

tends  spontaneously  to  react  to  such  accusations  apologetically 
rather  than  counterassertively.  When  he  fixes  up  a  two  days'  leave 
with  his  employer  to  attend  his  mother's  funeral,  "I  had  an  idea 
he  looked  annoyed  and  I  said,  without  thinking:  'Sorry,  sir,  but  it 
isn't  my  fault,  you  know'  "  (p.  1 ) .  When  the  warden  of  the  Home 
in  which  his  mother  died  briefly  recapitulates  her  history  in  the 
Home,  "I  had  a  feeling  that  he  was  blaming  me  for  something  [i.e. 
sending  his  mother  to  a  Home — N.L.]  and  started  to  explain" 
(p.  3).  At  the  wake  near  his  mother's  coffin  "for  a  moment  I  had 
an  absurd  impression  that  they  [his  mother's  friends  who  are  pres- 
ent— N.L.]  had  come  to  sit  in  judgment  on  me"  (p.  11).  When  he 
for  the  first  time  makes  love  to  Marie  the  day  after  his  mother's 
death  and  when  Marie  learns  about  this  death,  "I  was  just  going 
to  explain  to  her  that  it  [his  mother's  death — N.L.]  wasn't  my 
fault,  but  I  checked  myself  as  I  remembered  having  said  the  same 
thing  to  my  employer,  and  realizing  then  it  sounded  rather  foolish 
(cela  ne  signifiait  Hen).  Still,  foolish  or  not,  somehow  one  can't 
help  feeling  a  bit  guilty,  I  suppose  (De  toute  facon,  on  est  toujours 
un  peu  fautif)"  (p.  24).  Finally,  the  public  prosecutor  at  his  trial 
affirms  emphatically  that  "this  man  ...  is  morally  guilty  of  his 
mother's  death,"  and  adds — referring  to  a  parricide  which  is  on 
the  court's  agenda — that  "the  prisoner  ...  is  also  guilty  of  the 
murder  to  be  tried  tomorrow  in  this  court"  (p.  128) .  The  projected 
tends  to  return  from  projection:  when  the  hero's  "callousness" 
about  his  mother's  death  is  shown  in  court,  "I  felt  a  sort  of  wave 
of  indignation  spreading  through  the  courtroom  and  for  the  first 
time  I  understood  that  I  was  guilty"  (p.  112). 

Another  major  manifestation  of  the  hero's  intense  unconscious 
rage  consists  in  the  commission  of  acts  whicrf  aggress  his  environ- 
ment and  provoke  it  into  aggressing  him,  thus  alleviating  his  guilt. 
The  self-destructive  aspects  of  these  acts  is  only  little  conscious; 
and  the  same  is  true  for  the  aggressive  aspect  of  some  of  them. 
For  example,  the  hero  adopts  a  "free  association"  policy  in  his 
verbal  utterances,  however  grave  the  consequences  of  this  may  be. 
When  he  is  asked  to  speak  at  his  trial,  "I  said  the  first  thing  that 
crossed  my  mind  ...  as  I  felt  in  the  mood  to  speak"  (p.  129).  The 
hero  is  consistently  and  consciously  frank,  in  words  and  acts,  in 


260  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

expressing  the  nonconformism  corresponding  to  his  affectlessness. 
(For  many  of  the  hero's  fictional  predecessors  the  refusal  to  con- 
form to  conventional  modes  of  expressing  affect  had  been  related 
to  the  awareness  of  a  unique  intense  nuance  of  affect  which  in- 
sisted on  its  own  channels.)  He  indicates  clearly  his  lack  of  grief 
about  the  death  of  his  mother  and  refuses  to  go  through  the  paces 
of  conventional  mourning  behavior  (p.  31,  passim),  his  atheism 
(p.  85,  passim),  his  lack  of  response  to  others  as  conveyed  by 
silence. 

_The  effect,  of  course,  is  to  stimulate  hostilities  directed  against 
himself.  But  the  hero  scarcely — or  only  belatedly — recognizes  this. 
He  has,  indeed,  little  empathy  for  his  environment's  aggressive  re- 
actions to  acts  of  his  own  which  are  interpreted  as  aggressive.  As 
he  represses  destructiveness  in  himself,  he  denies  it  in  others.  When 
he  communicates  to  his  lawyer  his  unfavorable  attitudes  toward  his 
mother,  the  lawyer  makes  him  promise  "not  to  say  anything  of 
that  sort  at  the  trial"  (p.  80).  Thereupon  the  hero  attempts  to 
satisfy  the  lawyer:  "Anyhow  I  could  assure  him  of  one  thing:  that 
I'd  rather  Mother  hadn't  died."  He  has  no  awareness  of  the  un- 
favorable impact  of  such  a  communication.  On  the  contrary,  a 
recurrent  conscious  motivation  of  his  is  "to  keep  out  of  trouble," 
for  example,  by  complying  with  demands  made  by  others.  Simi- 
larly, at  the  trial  (where  he  behaves  with  resigned  passivity  and  his 
usual  provocative  candor)  he  has  great  difficulties  in  realizing  emo- 
tionally the  seriousness  of  the  public  intent  to  murder  him  for  his 
murder.  He  exaggerates  the  mildness  of  the  world,  and  this  is  the 
counterpart  to  the  presentation  of  the  world  as  deprivational  by 
withholding:  the  world  isn't  sufficiently  interested  in  me  to  be  out 
for  my  skin.  (This  belief  also  serves  as  a  defense  against  panic.) 
Thus  the  imprisoned  hero  lacks  up  to  a  late  moment  the  convic- 
tion that  he  is  in  danger:  "At  first  I  couldn't  take  him  [the  examin- 
ing magistrate — N.L.]  quite  seriously.  The  room  in  which  he  in- 
terviewed me  was  much  like  an  ordinary  sitting-room  .  .  ."  (p.  78); 
"it  all  seemed  like  a  game"  (ibid.);  "When  leaving,  I  very  nearly 
held  out  my  hand  and  said  'Good-bye!'  "  (ibid.).  When  a  routine 
of  conversations  between  the  magistrate,  the  hero,  and  his  lawyer 
has  become  established,  "I  began  to  breathe  more  freely.  Neither 


The  Stranger  261 

of  the  two  men,  at  these  times,  showed  the  least  hostility  toward 
me,  and  everything  went  so  smoothly,  so  amiably,  that  I  had  an 
absurd  impression  of  being  'one  of  the  family'  "  (p.  88).  When  he 
first  sees  his  jury,  "I  felt  as  you  do  just  after  boarding  a  streetcar 
and  you're  conscious  of  all  the  people  on  the  opposite  seat  staring 
at  you  in  the  hope  of  finding  something  in  your  appearance  to 
amuse  them.  Of  course,  I  knew  this  was  an  absurd  comparison" 
(p.  103). 

Beside  chronic  covert  self-destructive  aggressiveness  stand  major 
explosions  of  overt  aggressiveness:  the  murder  of  the  Arab  and  an 
assault  on  the  prison  chaplain.  A  closer  analysis  of  these  acts  may 
show  how  they  fit  into  the  character  structure  hitherto  described. 
How  are  the  defenses  against  completing  rage  overcome? 

1 .  The  aggressions  are  felt  as  inexplicable  explosions  originating 
outside  the  self  and  overwhelming  it.  "Then  [at  a  certain  point  in 
the  protracted  exhortation  addressed  by  the  prison  chaplain  to  the 
hero  awaiting  execution *— N.L.]  I  don't  know  how  it  was,  but  some- 
thing seemed  to  break  (crever)  inside  me,  and  I  started  yelling 
at  the  top  of  my  voice.  I  hurled  insults  at  him.  ...  I'd  taken  him 
by  the  neckband  of  his  cassock,  and,  in  a  sort  of  ecstasy  of  joy  and 
rage  (colere),  I  poured  out  on  him  all  the  thoughts  that  had  been 
simmering  in  my  brain"  (p.  151). 

The  murder  of  the  Arab  is  presented  as  forced  upon  the  hero 
by  the  primarily  somatic  and  only  secondarily  psychic  impact  of 
the  heat  (a  projection  of  the  hero's  impulses,  we  may  surmise,  onto 
emanations  of  the  sun,  a  frequent  paternal  symbol) :  "As  I  slowly 
walkedT  towards  the  boulders  at  the  end  of  the  beach  [where  the 
hero  will  find  his  victim — N.L.]  I  could  feel  my  temples  swelling 
under  the  impact  of  the  light"  (p.  73).  When  he  is  near  the  Arab, 
whose  posture  is  then  entirely  defensive,  "it  struck  me  that  all  I 
had  to  do  was  to  turn,  walk  away,  and  think  no  more  about  it. 
But  the  whole  beach,  pulsing  with  heat,  was  pressing  on  my  back 
(se  pressait  derriere  moi).  All  the  sweat  that  had  accumulated  in 
my  eyebrows  splashed  down  on  my  eyelids,  covering  them  with  a 
warm  film  of  moisture.  Beneath  a  veil  of  brine  and  tears  my  eyes 
were  blinded;  I  was  conscious  only  of  the  symbols  of  the  sun  clash- 
ing on  my  skull"  (pp.  74-75).  (The  sun  as  inducer  of  "daze," 


262  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

while  a  bout  of  intense  motor  or  psychic  activity  is  performed, 
recurs  throughout  the  novel.) 

The  murder  itself  appears — with  a  projection  of  destructiveness 
onto  a  target  yet  more  remote  from  the  self — as  a  cataclysmic  re- 
lease of  violence  in  nature:  "Then  everything  began  to  reel  before 
my  eyes,  a  fiery  gust  came  from  the  sea,  while  the  sky  cracked  in 
two,  from  end  to  end,  and  a  great  sheet  of  flame  poured  down 
through  the  rift"  (p.  76). 5 

According  to  Newsweek  (April  15,  1946)  the  hero  "commits 
murder  .  .  .  with  the  utmost  casualness."  According  to  Time  Maga- 
zine (May  20,  1946)  "he  .  .  .  casually  pulls  the  trigger  of  the 
revolver." 

2.  The  hero  consciously  attempts  to  resist  the  explosion  of  ag- 
gression. First,  he  prevents  his  pimp  acquaintance  from  shooting 
the  Arab  whom  he  later  kills.  When  he  walks  on  the  beach  in  the 
direction  of  his  victim,  "each  time  I  felt  a  hot  blast  strike  my  fore- 
head, I  gritted  my  teeth,  I  clenched  my  fists  in  my  trouser  pockets 
and  keyed  up  every  nerve  to  fend  off  the  sun  and  the  dark  befud- 
dlement  (cette  ivresse  opaque)  it  was  pouring  into  me  .  .  .  my  jaws 
set  hard.  I  wasn't  going  to  be  beaten."  But  the  very  attempt  to 
resist  the  consummation  brings  it  nearer:  The  sun  appears  at  this 
moment  as  "trying  to  check  my  progress"  and  thereby  leading  the 
resisting  hero  unknowingly  toward  his  victim.  Once  confronted 
with  this  victim,  the  sun  bars  retreat  (cf.  above),  although  the 
hero,  taking  another  step  forward,  "knew  it  was  a  fool  thing  to  do" 
(p.  75). 

3.  The  hero  encounters  his  victim  without  knowing  that  he  will 
do  so:  "I  was  rather  taken  aback"  (p.  74). 

4.  The  hero  appears  to  himself  as  acting  in  self-defense.  His 
fantasies  of  being  destroyed  (suggestive  of  castration  anxieties)  go 
far  beyond  the  real  threat.  When  "the  Arab  [at  a  safe  distance  and 
with  an  apparently  defensive  purpose — N.L.]  drew  his  knife  and 
held  it  up  towards  me,  athwart  the  sunlight  ...  a  shaft  of  light 
shot  upward  from  the  steel,  and  I  felt  as  if  a  long,  thin  blade  trans- 
fixed my  forehead.  ...  I  was  conscious  ...  of  the  keen  blade  of 
light  flashing  up  from  the  knife,  scarring  my  eyelashes  and  gouging 
into  my  eyeballs"  (p.  75). 


The  Stranger  263 

5.  The  hero  has  a  conscious  instrumental  motivation  in  perform- 
ing the  acts  leading  up  to  his  crime;  this  motivation  is  super  ego- 
syntonic.  He  approaches,  unknowingly,  his  victim,  who  is  in  the 
shadow  and  near  water,  in  search  of  relief  from  the  sun.  Walking 
on  the  beach,  "the  small  black  hump  of  rock  [behind  which  the 
Arab  is  lying — N.L.]  came  into  view.  .  .  .  Anything  ...  to  retrieve 
the  pool  of  shadow  by  the  rock  and  its  cool  silence  (J'avais  envie 
.  .  .  de  retrouver  V ombre  et  son  repos)  ...  I  couldn't  stand  it  [the 
heat — N.L.]  any  longer,  and  took  another  step  forward.  I  knew  it 
was  a  fool  thing  to  do;  I  wouldn't  get  out  of  the  sun  by  moving  on 
a  yard  or  so.  But  I  took  that  step,  just  one  step  forward.  And  then 
the  Arab  drew  his  knife"  (p.  75). 

6.  Guilt-alleviating  and  anxiety-enhancing  factors  such  as  the 
ones  mentioned  facilitate  the  temporary  but  total  return  of  the  re- 
pressed rage  from  repression.  The  self-punitive  significance  of  such 
a  return  has  the  same  effect.  The  heat  driving  the  hero  to  murder 
and  hence  to  his  execution  "was  just  the  same  sort  of  heat  as  at 
my  mother's  funeral"  (p.  75):  the  hero  atones  for  that  funeral 
by  arranging  his  own.  He  feels  at  the  end  that  he  is  going  to  be 
"executed  because  he  didn't  weep  at  his  mother's  funeral"  (p.  152) . 

In  addition,  "perhaps  the  only  things  I  knew  about  him  [the 
hero's  father — N.L.]  were  what  Mother  had  told  me.  One  of  these 
was  that  he'd  gone  to  see  a  murderer  executed"  (p.  138).  Presum- 
ably the  hero's  own  execution  is  in  part  for  the  benefit  of  this 
fantasied  spectator  who  "had  seen  it  through,"  although  "the  mere 
thought  of  it  turned  his  stomach,"  and  who  afterwards  was  "vio- 
lently sick"  (p.  138).  (Also  "when  we  lived  together,  Mother  was 
always  watching  me" — p.  3.)  One  may  surmise  that  inducing  the 
father  to  be  sick  has  the  significance  of  having  a  sexual  relation 
with  him.  One  may  also  surmise  that  being  executed  in  front  of  the 
scoptophilic  father  has  an  exhibitionistic  meaning.  One  may  further 
assume  that  this  act  is  an  expiation  for  aggressive  tendencies  to- 
ward the  father  in  general  and  his  scoptophilia  in  particular:  "at 
the  time  [when  the  hero's  mother  told  him  the  story — N.L.]  I  found 
my  father's  conduct  rather  disgusting.  But  now  I  understood;  it 
was  so  natural"  (p.  138).  Furthermore,  the  hero  identifies  him- 
self with  a  fantasied  spectator  of  executions  (his  own?)  and  thus 


264  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

induces  an  oral  scoptophilic  and  sadomasochistic  ecstasy  bordering 
on  panic:  "The  mere  thought  of  being  an  onlooker  who  comes  to 
see  the  show  and  can  go  home  and  vomit  afterward,  floored  my 
mind  with  a  wild,  absurd  exultation  (un  flot  de  joie  empoisonnee 
me  montait  au  coeur)  ...  a  moment  later  I  had  a  shivering  fit .  .  . 
my  teeth  went  on  chattering"  (pp.  138-39). 

These  gratifications  induce  rationalizing  elaborations  of  the  fan- 
tasy of  attending  executions:  "Often  and  often  [awaiting  his  own 
execution — N.L.]  I  blame  myself  for  not  having  given  more  atten- 
tion to  accounts  of  public  executions.  One  should  always  take  an 
interest  in  such  matters.  There  is  never  any  knowing  what  one  may 
come  to.  .  .  .  How  had  I  failed  to  recognize  that  nothing  was  more 
important  than  an  execution;  that,  viewed  from  one  angle,  it's  the 
only  thing  that  can  genuinely  interest  a  man.  And  I  decided  that  if 
I  ever  got  out  of  jail  I'd  attend  every  execution  that  took  place" 
(pp.  136-38).6 

7.  The  hero's  extreme  aggressions  are  probably  unconsciously 
intended  to  extort  concern — be  it  in  the  form  of  indulgences  or 
deprivations — from  a  world  whose  real  or  fantasied  neglect  had 
induced  chronic  suicide  by  affectlessness.  This  syndrome  breaks 
down  when  the  hero,  in  the  extreme  situation  of  impending  execu- 
tion, is  exposed  to  affect  indubitably  directed  toward  him.  He  is 
then  able  to  drop  the  image  of  the  world  as  essentially  uninterested 
in  him  and  to  react  with  felt  affect  to  perceived  affect.  Having  got- 
ten a  rise  out  of  the  world,  he  can  get  one  out  of  himself.  When 
at  a  certain  moment  of  this  trial  the  hero  "for  the  first  time  realized 
how  all  these  people  loathed  me  ...  I  felt  as  I  hadn't  felt  for  ages. 
I  had  a  foolish  desire  to  burst  into  tears"  (p.  112).  When  the 
owner  of  his  habitual  restaurant  testifies  in  his  favor  with  moist 
eyes  and  trembling  lips,  "for  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  wanted  to 
kiss  a  man"  (p.  116). 

8.  Prp.giiTT^phly,  purilphment  means  for  the  hero — among  other^ 
things — love.  In  this  context  the  story  of  Salamano,  a  degraded  old 
man  living  in  the  hero's  apartment  house,  and  his  degraded  dog, 
is  relevant.  (Thinking  of  Salamano  "for  some  reason,  I  don't  know 
what,  I  began  thinking  cf  Mother" — p.  50.)  The  spaniel — of 
whom  the  hero's  mother  had  been  very  fond — is  "an  ugly  brute, 


The  Stranger  265 

afflicted  with  some  skin  disease — it  has  lost  all  its  hair  and  its  body 
is  covered  with  brown  scabs"  (p.  32).  The  dog's  relation  to  his 
master  is  presented  as  an  extreme  sadomasochistic  one,  with  most 
of  the  overt  sadism  on  the  side  of  the  master.  Salamano  repeatedly 
utters  death  wishes  toward  the  dog.  But  when  the  maltreated  span- 
iel finally  escapes  (to  his  death),  Salamano  is  in  despair  and  ex- 
presses unconditional  love  for,  as  well  as  total  dependence  on,  the 
lost  object. 

9.  Presumably  the  "you'll  be  sorry  afterwards"  theme  just  al- 
luded to  enters  into  the  hero's  self-destructiveness.  In  prison  he 
finds  only  one  scrap  of  an  old  newspaper  reporting  a  murder  case: 
A  son  is  murdered  by  a  mother  who  ignores  his  identity.  When  she 
learns  about  it  she  commits  suicide.  "I  must  have  read  that  story 
thousands  of  times.  In  one  way  it  sounded  most  unlikely,  in  another 
it  was  plausible  enough"  (p.  100). 7 

10.  The  hero's  acts  of  violence  discharge  to  some  extent  his  de- 
structive tendencies;  hence  a  diminution  of  the  countercathexis 
which  is  expended  on  interfering  with  them.  Therefore,  the  degree 
of  the  hero's  affectlessness  decreases  during  his  sojourn  in  prison. 
He  discovers  memory;  time  had  been  more  difficult  to  kill  in  free- 
dom. Now  he  can  express  affectionate  tendencies  toward  the  pun- 
ishing world:  "I  can  honestly  say  that  during  the  eleven  months 
these  examinations  [by  the  Magistrate — N.L.]  lasted  I  got  so  used 
to  them  that  I  was  almost  surprised  at  having  ever  enjoyed  anything 
better  than  those  rare  moments  when  the  Magistrate  after  escorting 
me  to  the  door  of  the  office  would  pat  my  shoulder  and  say  in  a 
friendly  tone:  'Well,  Mr.  Antichrist,  that's  all  for  the  present' " 
(p.  88).  After  his  second  act  of  violence — directed,  this  time, 
against  an  obvious  father  figure,  the  prison  chaplain,  and  render- 
ing his  execution  doubly  certain — his  affectionate  tendencies  are 
more  fully  released  and  attain  the  level  of  serene  happiness:  "It 
was  as  if  that  great  rush  of  anger  had  washed  me  clean  (comme 
si  cette  grande  colere  nfavait  purge  du  mat)"  (p.  154).  After  the 
assault  the  hero  falls  asleep  from  exhaustion.  Awakening  he  ex- 
periences a  reconciliation  with  the  indifferent  world  and  its  proto- 
types, the  indifferent  parents;  he  can  love  them  though  he  knows 
they  do  not  love  him:  ".  .  .  for  the  first  time,  the  first,  I  laid  my 


266  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

heart  open  to  the  benign  (tendre)  indifference  of  the  universe. 
To  feel  it  so  like  myself,  indeed  so  brotherly."  "Almost  for  the  first 
time  in  many  months  I  thought  of  my  mother"  (p.  153).  He  "un- 
derstands"— and  identifies  with — her  having  played  at  making  a 
fresh  start  just  before  her  death  by  taking  on  a  "fiance"  in  the 
Home  for  the  Aged  where  she  lived.  The  novel  ends  with  the  re- 
evocation  of  the  father's  execution  scoptophilia  and  with  a  leap 
from  the  acceptance  of  the  indifferent  world  to  the  acceptance  of 
the  punishing  world:  "For  all  to  be  accomplished,  for  me  to  feel 
less  lonely,  all  that  remained  to  hope  was  that  on  the  day  of  my 
execution  there  should  be  a  huge  crowd  of  spectators  and  that 
they  should  greet  me  with  howls  of  execration  (haine)." 

A  satisfactory  language  of  aesthetics  scarcely  exists.  If  it  did, 
I  would  attempt  to  formulate  in  it  a  favorable  judgment  on  The 
Stranger.  Assuming  such  a  judgment,  it  may  be  surmised  that  the 
psychological  plausibility  (in  this  case,  the  "common-sense"  im- 
plausibility)  of  the  content  contributes  to  the  aesthetic  value  of 
the  novel — which,  on  the  other  hand,  depends  on  "formal"  charac- 
teristics. Among  these  there  is  one  of  general  importance  which 
can  be  particularly  well  shown  in  this  novel  with  its  unusual  terse- 
ness and  concreteness  of  style:  the  high  degree  of  implicitness  of 
the  unconscious  content  layers.  That  is,  the  reader  is  not  (as  he 
is  in  numerous  "psychologically  oriented"  contemporary  produc- 
tions) told  in  so  many  words,  or  obtrusively  led  to  see,  connections 
of  the  order  of  those  discussed  in  this  paper.  Conceivably  the  au- 
thor is  less  than  fully  aware  of  these  connections  and  certainly 
the  critics — and  those  readers  for  whom  they  speak — are  largely 
unaware  of  them.  The  conditions  and  consequences  of  the  antago- 
nism between  explicitness  and  aesthetic  impact — an  antagonism 
which  has,  of  course,  already  received  psychoanalytic  attention — 
seem  to  warrant  further  speculation  and  research. 


1  L'Etranger,  Paris,  1942.  Translated  by  Stuart  Gilbert  (New  York,  1946). 
All  page  references  are  to  the  American  edition.  All  italics  in  quotations 
are  supplied. 

2  Dr.  Martha  Wolfenstein's  suggestions  have  contributed  to  a  number  of 
points  in  this  matter. 


The  Stranger  267 

3  This  is  in  sharp  contrast  to  the  intensity  of  his  reactions  to  external  non- 
personal  stimuli — to  the  colors  (cf.  pp.  14,  20,  93),  smells  (cf.  pp.  10,  20), 
tactile  values  (cf.  pp.  14,  61,  92,  95),  sounds  (cf.  p.  122)  of  cityscape  and 
landscape.  These  he  knows  to  be  his  "surest,  humblest  pleasures"  (p.  132). 
The  hero  is  also  presented  as  feeling  a  persistently  strong  and  unbrokenly 
euphoric  sexual  attraction  toward  his  girl  friend — almost  the  only  point  in 
which  I  would  question  his  plausibility.  Perhaps  the  author,  so  free  from 
many  illusions,  is  here  still  presenting  a  derivative  of  the  Western  myth  on 
the  transcendent  position  of  "love"  in  human  nature. 

4  Some  critics  mistake  such  defenses  for  completions  of  impulse.  Thus 
Richard  Plant  {Saturday  Review  of  Literature,  May  18,  1946),  affirming 
that  the  hero's  "animal  instincts  [sic]  are  nicely  developed"  gives  as  evidence 
that  he  notes  with  extraordinary  sharpness  "the  heat,  the  faces  of  his  moth- 
er's friends,  the  sharp  light  in  the  morgue." 

5  When  violence  begins,  the  projective  impulsion  by  heat  ceases:  'The 
trigger  gave.  ...  I  shook  off  my  sweat  and  the  clinging  veil  of  light  (J'ai 
secoue  la  sueur  et  le  soleil)"  (p.  76). 

The  hero  then  goes  on  to  fire  four  more  shots.  This  the  magistrate,  the 
public  prosecutor,  and  Edmund  Wilson  (The  New  Yorker,  April  13,  1946), 
takes  as  a  conclusive  indicator  of  "deliberateness."  The  novel  gives  no  clues 
on  the  immediate  context  of  these  "loud,  fateful  rap(s)  on  the  door  of  my 
undoing"  (p.  76). 

6  Some  speculative  points  may  be  ventured  here.  The  hero's  interference 
with  his  destructive  tendencies  toward  his  father  is  accompanied  by  an  iden- 
tification with  the  (projectively)  destructive  father.  In  his  precrisis  equilib- 
rium the  hero  is  the  consciously  unintentional  spectator  of  a  number  of 
beatings,  and  the  equally  unintentional  audience  of  stories  about  beatings: 
He  sees  or  hears  an  old  man  living  in  his  house  maltreating  his  dog,  the 
pimp  beating  his  unfaithful  girl,  a  policeman  beating  the  pimp,  the  pimp 
beating  the  Arab  and  being  counterattacked  by  him.  The  pimp  tells  him 
about  previous  beatings  of  the  girl  and  of  the  Arab.  (While  these  habitual 
"affectionate-like"  beatings  of  the  girl  "ended  as  per  usual,"  the  hero's  love- 
making  to  Marie  is  free  from  overt  destructive  admixtures.)  In  the  murder 
of  the  Arab,  however,  he  makes  the  decisive  transition  toward  an  act  of 
violence  of  his  own.  On  behalf  of  what  may  be  a  degraded  father  figure  (the 
pimp)  he  aggresses  (by  his  complicity  in  the  pimp's  revenge  scheme)  what 
may  be  a  degraded  mother  figure  (the  pimp's  Arab  girl)  and  destroys  her 
brother-defender  himself?  If  so,  his  murder  would  be  a  suicide  not  only  in 
its  unconscious  provocative  intent  but  also  in  its  immediate  significance. 

7  If  this  were  a  "real-life"  case,  the  exposure  of  the  subject  to  the  story 
would  be  regarded  as  accidental  and  his  reaction  to  it  as  significant.  As  this 
is  a  fantasy  case,  both  are  significant.  This  point  is  implicit  in  certain  pre- 
ceding passages  of  this  paper,  e.g.,  in  the  discussion  of  the  hero  as  a  fre- 
quent spectator  of  beatings  (cf.  note  6). 


Part  Three 


Ernst  Kris 


The  Contribution  and 

Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis 


What  are  those  things  like  which,  by  contem- 
poraries or  (under  changed  conditions)  by  posterity,  tend  to  be 
endowed  with  the  specific  aura  which  the  word  art  conveys?  What 
must  the  men  have  been  like  who  made  these  things,  and  what  did 

thpir  wnrlf  mean  tn  thp.msp.1yes  and  {Q  their  public? 

These  are  some  of  the  questions  which  the  study  of  art  suggests 
and  which  no  one  discipline  of  knowledge  can  hope  to  answer; 
moreover,  no  answer  can  hope  to  be  satisfactory  unless  these  ques- 
tions are  interrelated.  In  this  essay  we  are  concerned  with  the 
actual  and  potential  contribution  of  psychoanalysis  to  this  wide 
field  of  inquiry,  which,  however  ill  defined,  cannot  fail  to  exercise 
a  singular  fascination. 

In  speaking  of  psychoanalysis  we  refer  to  a  complex  set  of  con- 
structs and  general  asumptions  on  which  specific  hypotheses  are 
based,  to  a  broad  framework  for  the  study  of  human  behavior 
which  allows  for  the  study  of  a  large  number  of  interdependent 
factors.  Psychoanalytic  propositions  fulfill  the  general  requirements 
of  theory  in  science.  They  unify  special  assumptions  under  more 

271 


272  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

general  ones,  indicate  what  tests  for  validation  and  refutation  of 
specific  hypotheses  are  meaningful,  and  facilitate  the  formulation 
of  new  hypotheses  which  in  turn  can  be  tested.  Hence  constructs 
and  basic  assumptions  must  be  revised  from  time  to  timejn.order 
to  retain Jheir  usefulness . 

In  many  instances,  particularly  when  psychoanalysis  is  being 
"applied"  outside  of  clinical  work,  its  contribution  tends  to  be 
characterized  by  one  or  several  quotations  from  Freud's  writings. 
Not  that  their  value  should  be  minimized;  but  isolated  quotations, 
however  poignant,  tend  to  convey  a  static  impression  and  suggest 
that  Freud  mainly  attempted  to  demonstrate  the  validity  of  a 
given  set  of  hypotheses,  adding,  as  it  were,  insight  from  various 
sources.  Nothing  could  be  more  misleading.  Freud's  work  consists 
of  continuous  attempts  to  unify  detailed  observations  by  an  ex- 
planatory framework  and  to  revise  the  theory  thus  obtained  in 
the  light  of  new  empirical  data  or  impressions.  This  revision  led 
repeatedly  to  radical  reformulations  of  constructs,  basic  assump- 
tions, and  specific  hypotheses — a  development  which  tends  to  be 
obscured  by  the  reliance  on  "representative  quotations."  * 

From  the  early  days  of  psychoanalysis  many  authors,  utilizing 
primarily  clinical  observations,  participated  in  the  process  of  revi- 
sion of  theory,  sometimes  stimulating  Freud's  own  revisions  and 
reformulations  and  at  other  times  contradicting  his  views. 

This  process  has  gained  momentum  with  the  increase  in  num- 
bers of  trained  analysts.  When  alternative  propositions  reach  a 
certain  point,  "schools"  of  analytic  thought  arise  and  are  propa- 
gated. Next  to  rather  obvious  psychological  factors,  the  nature  of 
the  subject  matter  itself  is  responsible  for  such  consequences  of 
controversy:  The  difficulty  of  deciding  between  alternative  propo- 
sitions favors  the  tendency  to  substitute  dissent  for  discussion.  We 
do  not  mean  to  imply  either  that  decision  between  alternatives 
cannot  be  reached  or  that  opposing  views  are  destined  to  coexist: 
The  testing  of  hypotheses  would  in  many  instances  (particularly 
the  more  important  ones)  require  a  considerable  amount  of  time 
as  well  as  complex  testing  procedures,  and  crucial  experiments 
can  only  rarely  be  specified.  In  most  instances  clarification  depends 
on  the  gradual  progress  of  insight  derived  from  many  sources  of 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  273 

evidence,  mainly  the  progress  of  clinical  observation  and  of  thera- 
peutic technique.  Of  their  subsidiaries,  psychoanalytically  oriented 
studies  in  child  development  illustrate  best  the  productive  aspects 
of  "validation."  By  bringing  new  problems  to  the  observer's  atten- 
tion, validation  becomes  part  of  the  regular  progress  in  science. 

Dissent  in  psychoanalysis  must  be  mentioned  in  this  context 
not  only  to  characterize  the  writer's  position,  but  also  for  reasons 
pertaining  to  the  subject  at  hand.  In  discussions  on  psychoanalysis 
and  art  the  tendency  to  simplify  or  to  abbreviate  psychoanalytic 
thinking  is  particularly  noticeable.  This  seems  to  imply  that  the  psy- 
chological understanding  of  art  requires  simpler  assumptions  than 
the  psychological  understanding  of  the  activities  more  regularly  or 
exclusively  investigated  by  psychiatrists — a  view  that  need  not  be 
refuted  once  one  has  pointed  to  its  clandestine  existence.  It  might, 
however,  be  useful  to  illustrate  in  what  way  simplification  tends  to 
be  misleading.  While  in  their  clinical  work  psychiatrists  are  accus- 
tomed to  assess  carefully  the  requirements  of  a  specific  environ- 
mental situation,  the  "reality"  in  which  the  artist  creates  is  often 
neglected.  "Reality"  is  used  here  not  so  much  in  the  restricted 
sense  of  immediate  needs  and  material  environment  as  in  another 
and  extended  sense:  The  structure  of  the  problem  which  exists 
while  the  artist  is  creating,  the  historical  circumstances  in  the  de- 
velopment of  art  itself  which  limit  some  of  his  work,  determine 
in  one  way  or  another  his  modes  of  expression  and  thus  consti- 
tute the  stuff  with  which  he  struggles  in  creation. 

The  widespread  neglect  of  such  circumstances,  supreme  in  C.  G. 
Jung's  contributions  to  the  vast  area  of  psychoanalysis  and  art,  is 
facilitated  by  the  use  of  an  abridged,  and  hence  frequently  vul- 
garized, conceptual  framework.  The  nature  of  this  abridgment,  as 
far  as  Jung  is  concerned,  has  been  discussed  in  considerable  detail 
by  Edward  Glover.  To  no  other  system  of  alternative  propositions 
has  a  similar  discussion  been  devoted.  However,  it  seems  that  the 
schools  of  psychoanalytic  thought — whatever  their  scope — which 
have  developed  during  the  last  decades  resemble  in  one  respect 
the  earlier  ones,  exemplified  by  Jung's  approach:  They  have  to 
organize  isolated  alternatives  into  a  systematic  presentation.  They 
tend  to  reduce  the  complexity  of  psychoanalytic  thinking  and  to 


274  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

offer  abridgments  by  creating  artificial  dichotomies.  Some  abandon 
the  "biological"  roots  for  the  emphasis  on  "social"  aspects — an 
antithesis  which  in  itself  is  spurious — or  reverse  the  relationship 
by  ignoring  environmental  conditions.  They  may  limit  the  scope 
of  the  instinctual  drives  for  the  sake  of  the  inhibitory  and  con- 
trolling organizations,  or  take  the  opposite  attitude.  Many  of  them 
eliminate  constructs — preferably,  concepts  of  energy — which  seem 
highly  serviceable  and  do  not  replace  what  they  omit  except  by 
recourse  to  concepts  unrelated  to  psychoanalysis  itself;  and  thus 
the  usefulness  of  psychoanalysis  as  a  theory  is  impaired.  The  later 
work  of  Otto  Rank,  particularly  his  voluminous  book  on  Art  and 
the  Artist  (1932),  offers  the  most  regrettable  example  of  a  similar 
procedure.  While  it  excels  by  its  array  of  information,  there  is  no 
thought  to  unify  this  material,  but  rather  an  endeavor  to  disprove 
what  Freud,  and  Rank  himself,  wrote  earlier.  The  vast  amount  of 
quotation  from  sources  of  various  degrees  of  reliability  screens  the 
fact  that  the  conceptual  framework  of  psychoanalysis  has  been 
simplified  to  a  point  where  it  can  contribute  hardly  more  than 
common-sense  psychology  of  the  pre-Freud  era. 

The  present  attempt,  opposed  to  abridgments  and  simplifica- 
tions, rests  on  the  assumption  that  the  complete  system  of  psycho- 
analysis offers  at  present  the  best  chances  for  understanding  and 
predicting  human  behavior.  It  is  an  "open  system,"  achieved  by 
synchronizing  hypotheses  which  have  been  formulated  during  the 
total  course  of  the  development  of  psychoanalysis — a  system  not 
only  exposed  to  constant  amplification  and  emendation,  but  based 
on  the  clarification  of  some  semantic  contingencies. 

The  potential  contribution  of  psychoanalysis  to  the  study  of  art 
can,  I  believe,  be  assessed  only  if  one  takes  advantage  of  the 
differentiated  tools  psychoanalytic  theory  offers.  But  this  is  not 
the  only  precondition;  at  least  one  other  must  be  mentioned.  Art 
— the  humanities  in  general — tend  to  be  viewed  as  a  province  out- 
side the  confines  of  science,  and  if  science  penetrates  into  their 
field  it  is  in  the  disguise  of  history.  Historians  are  skilled  in  estab- 
lishing the  nature  of  events  of  the  past  (and  no  one  is  less  inclined 
than  the  writer  to  underestimate  the  rigor  of  their  methods).  The 
events  themselves,  however,  concern  human  behavior  and  are  part 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  275 

of  that  broad,  ill-defined  field  which  reaches  from  anthropology 
to  the  confines  of  medicine — the  cultural  and  social  sciences.  Seen 
in  this  context,  the  study  of  art  is  part  of  the  study  of  communica- 
tion. There  is  a  sender,  there  are  receivers,  and  there  is  a  message. 
These  all  are,  it  is  true,  of  a  very  special  and  enigmatic  kind,  and 
yet  only  if  viewed  within  a  similar  framework  can  the  study  of  art 
become  part  of  the  gradual  integration  of  our  knowledge  of  man. 

During  the  last  twenty  years  there  has  been  repeated  discussion 
of  the  question  of  the  distance  from  psychoanalytic  thinking  at 
which  the  social  sciences  in  general  find  it  useful  to  formulate  their 
assumptions.  While  the  sociologist  or  economist  studies  predomi- 
nantly aspects  of  human  life  different  from  those  with  which  psy- 
choanalysis deals — man's  central  psychological  conflicts — the  stu- 
dent of  art  shares  presumably  common  ground  with  the  psychiatrist: 
It  has  been  said  that  he  deals  with  similar  stuff.  As  in  other  areas 
of  research,  the  attempt  to  use  psychoanalytic  thinking  may  well 
lead  art  criticism  to  propositions  derived  from  psychoanalysis  but 
designed  to  meet  the  special  requirements  of  its  own  field;  a  sig- 
nificant step  wherever  interdisciplinary  contact  is  established. 

While  the  potential  contribution  of  psychoanalysis  to  the  study 
of  art  is  thus  bound  to  lead  into  uncharted  land,  an  evaluation  of 
its  actual,  past  contributions  can  best  be  obtained  if  we  briefly 
turn  to  the  history  of  psychoanalysis  itself.  In  its  heroic  age  the 
validity  of  the  earliest  hypotheses  had  to  be  established.  Clinical 
data  were  scarce  and  could  in  many  instances  not  be  communi- 
cated in  support  of  the  hypotheses.  Moreover,  when  clinical  data 
could  be  used,  there  remained  the  objection  that  Freud's  general 
psychological  findings  were  valid  only  within  pathology.  The  study 
of  documents  of  culture,  foremost  among  them  works  of  art, 
seemed  a  field  where  supplementary  evidence  could  be  gained. 
The  intensive  research  activity  which  followed  on  the  opening  of 
this  nonclinical  field  was  mainly  concerned  with  three  problems: 
first,  the  "ubiquity"  in  mythological  and  literary  tradition  of  cer- 
tain themes  known  from  or  related  to  the  fantasy  life  of  the  indi- 
vidual; second,  the  close  relationship  between  the  artist's  life  history 
in  the  psychoanalytic  sense  and  his  work;  and,  third,  the  relation- 
ship between  the  working  of  creative  imagination,  the  productive 


276  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

capacity  of  man,  and  thought  processes  observed  in  clinical  study. 

The  very  fact  that  certain  themes  of  human  experience  and 
conflict  are  recurrent  wherever  men  live  or  where,  at  least,  certain 
cultural  conditions  prevail  (best  known  from  the  tradition  of  Medi- 
terranean civilizations) — the  fact  that  from  Sophocles  to  Proust 
the  struggle  against  incestuous  impulses,  dependency,  guilt,  and 
aggression,  has  remained  a  topic  of  Western  literature — seems 
after  almost  half  a  century,  as  well  established  as  any  thesis  in  the 
social  sciences.  It  has  proved  immensely  stimulating,  opening  vistas 
that  had  remained  inaccessible  as  long  as  the  comparative  study 
of  mythological  and  literary  themes  had  been  based  exclusively 
on  general  cosmological  or  specific  historical  considerations.  Prog- 
ress beyond  these  initial  findings — richly  documented  in  the  early 
encyclopedic  writings  of  Otto  Rank — has  on  the  whole  turned  in 
one  major  direction:  psychoanalytic  interpretation  was  expanded. 
The  complexity  of  these  themes  became  more  firmly  established. 
The  existence  of  a  larger  number  of  contributing  determinants 
seemed  better  to  account  for  the  intensity  of  appeal  which  these 
themes  retained. 

This  expansion  of  interpretation  of  mythological  and  literary 
themes  reflects  some  trends  in  the  development  of  psychoanalysis. 
When  the  emphasis  on  the  uniqueness  of  the  mother-child  rela- 
tionship during  the  pre-Oedipal  phase  had  gained  importance  in 
Freud's  thinking,  the  destiny  of  Oedipus,  for  example,  came  to  be 
viewed  not  only  as  a  fate  determined  by  the  rivalry  between  son 
and  father,  but  also  by  the  son's  unsatisfied  longing  for,  and  retali- 
atory impulses  against,  a  mother  who  had  betrayed  her  infant. 
Hamlet's  conflict  was  no  longer  viewed  only  in  relation  to  his 
repressed  parricidal  impulses,  but  as  codetermined  by  his  hidden 
and  dangerously  submissive  attachment  to  an  idealized  father. 
Some  authors  went  further  and  stressed  the  part  which  matricidal 
impulses  play  in  Hamlet's  musings.  Similar  additions  and  reinter- 
pretations  of  widely  spread  themes  have  become  rather  frequent. 
They  use  a  fair  sample  of  the  hypotheses  which  during  the  last 
decades  have  developed,  some  intending  to  supplement,  others  to 
supplant,  older  psychoanalytic  interpretations.  Wherever  contro- 
versy arises — it  is  rarely  made  explicit — decision  must  be  expected 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  277 

to  come  from  the  area  in  which  these  hypotheses  were  formulated, 
that  is,  from  clinical  and  experimental  studies. 

However  significant  some  of  these  additions  to  previously  as- 
sembled knowledge  are,  they  have  not  basically  enlarged  our  views. 
It  is  striking  that  extensions  of  research  have  neglected  one  aspect. 
The  wide  distribution  of  certain  themes  was  particularly  revealing 
as  long  as  Freud's  hypotheses  on  the  generality  of  certain  instinc- 
tual strivings  was  being  tested,  that  is,  as  long  as  the  study  of  the 
id  dominated  psychoanalytic  interest.  Since  psychoanalytic  ego 
psychology  has  sharpened  our  eyes  for  the  specific  within  the  gen- 
eral, one  might  have  expected  that  the  variations  of  general  themes 
previously  studied  would  have  attracted  attention  and  that  the 
question  would  have  been  asked:  Under  specific  cultural  and  socio- 
economic conditions,  during  any  given  period  of  history  or  in  the 
work  of  any  one  of  the  great  creators  within  each  period,  how 
have  the  traditional  themes  been  varied?  What  aspects  of  the 
themes  are  more  and  which  less  frequent,  and  how  are  they  modi- 
fied? It  seems  that  a  wide  field  of  research  waits  for  those  inter- 
ested in  interdisciplinary  integration. 

For  different  reasons,  progress  in  the  second  area  of  original 
psychoanalytic  interest  has  been  limited.  It  no  longer  seems  doubt- 
ful that  what  a  man  has  experienced  during  infancy  or  childhood 
(particularly  if  experience  is  not  restricted  to  external  events  but 
includes  patterns  of  conflicts  and  their  solution)  may  influence  as 
a  recurrent  theme  (or  as  a  defense  against  it)  his  thought  proc- 
esses, his  dreams,  and  his  artistic  creations.  The  extent  to  which 
psychoanalytic  insight  has  advanced  in  this  respect  need  hardly  be 
stressed.  In  particular,  the  constructs  of  ego  psychology,  interact- 
ing with  the  constant  refinement  of  techniques  for  handling  devel- 
opmental problems,  have  sharpened  our  eye  for  the  relevance  of 
early  experiences.  And  yet  it  is  significant  that  we  have  remained 
incapable  of  penetrating  to  the  central  problem  which  evaded 
Freud's  ingenuity.  When  studying  Leonardo  da  Vinci  he  had  been 
able  to  enter  deeply  into  the  secrets  of  a  man  of  genius.  Deter- 
minants of  Leonardo's  scientific  interest,  his  obsessional  and  fre- 
quently self-defeating  working  habits,  could  be  plausibly  traced  to 
infantile  imprints.  The  child  raised  by  two  mothers — the  peasant 


278  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

mother  and  the  wife  of  his  father,  in  whose  house  he  grew  up — 
was  stimulated  to  unite  almost  for  the  first  time  in  Italian  painting 
the  Virgin  and  St.  Anna  with  the  infant  Christ.  Unity  between 
the  three  was  established  not  only  by  gestures;  they  seem  to 
merge  into  each  other  since  they  are  inscribed  into  a  pyramidal 
configuration.  By  similar  devices  Leonardo  created  in  several  of 
his  paintings  compositions  which  exercised  considerable  influence 
on  the  development  of  the  art  of  his  time.  The  phenomenon  in- 
vestigated has  thus  been  approached  from  two  sides,  the  life  his- 
tory of  the  artist  and  the  solution  of  the  artistic  problem:  One 
can  demonstrate  the  interaction  of  an  incentive  in  the  individual 
life  history  with  the  stringencies  of  an  artistic  problem,  determined 
in  Leonardo's  case  by  the  development  of  Italian  painting. 

Significant  as  it  is,  this  very  possibility  illustrates  the  limitations 
of  our  understanding.  Two  such  limitations  deserve  our  particular 
attention.  The  first  concerns  mainly  the  individual;  the  second,  his 
relation  to  his  medium  and  its  potentialities  under  given  historical 
conditions. 

We  have  no  answer  to  the  question  why  an  individual  with  the 
infantile  experience  and  the  particular  pattern  of  defenses  Freud 
was  able  to  reconstruct  in  Leonardo's  life  history  was  fated  to  be- 
come the  great  creator.  It  is  not  the  lack  or  imprecision  of  the 
data  used  by  Freud  and  accessible  to  him  in  this  case  which  can 
be  made  responsible  for  this  limitation.  Even  when  we  are  in  a 
position  to  rely  on  the  innumerable  and  detailed  observations 
which  clinical  study  of  creative  individuals  in  psychoanalytic  ob- 
servation and  therapy  brings  to  the  fore,  this  question  remains 
unanswered.  All  progress  we  have  made  has  led  into  one  direction, 
which  for  the  sake  of  simplicity  I  shall  call  here  vocational  choice.2 
Psychoanalytic  material  enables  us  to  point  to  the  interaction  of 
factors  which  made  one  individual  turn  to  painting,  the  other  to 
dancing,  writing,  or  music.  At  times  even  broad  generalizations 
are  suggested;  we  may  feel  able  to  say  why  one  prefers  action, 
another  contemplation  or  speculation,  why — with  apparently  sim- 
ilar predispositions — one  devotes  his  life  to  science  and  the  other 
to  art.3  We  have  gained  a  good  deal  of  experience  in  accounting 
for  obvious  failures  in  performance,  and  psychoanalytic  therapy 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  279 

achieves  some  of  its  most  gratifying  results  in  helping  individuals 
overcome  both  general  impairment  of  their  working  capacity  and 
inhibitions  in  specific  types  of  endeavor.  However,  after  all  this 
has  been  properly  taken  into  account,  there  remains  the  question 
not  only  of  why  one  is  successful  and  the  other  is  not,  but,  par- 
ticularly where  science  or  art  is  concerned,  why  one  is  great  while 
the  other  barely  reaches  medium  height. 

We  do  not  at  present  have  tools  which  would  permit  us  to 
investigate  the  roots  of  gift  or  talent,  not  to  speak  of  genius.4 
However,  recent  advances  in  ego  psychology  enable  us  better  to 
focus  on  this  gap  in  our  knowledge  and  suggest  inquiries  which 
promise  to  improve  our  understanding.  We  have  come  to  view 
psychological  conflict  not  only  as  an  unavoidable  accessory  to  per- 
sonality development,  but  also — within  certain  limits — as  an  essen- 
tial ingredient  and  incentive.  We  are  about  to  study  ego  develop- 
ment not  only  in  relation  to  typical  conflicts,  but  also  as  far  as 
the  ego's  capacities  and  functions  emerge  from  conflict  involve- 
ment and  acquire  autonomy.  In  this  connection  the  endowment  of 
the  personality,  its  innate  equipment,  plays  a  significant  role.  We 
had  been  used  to  view  it  in  terms  of  potentialities  of  the  individual 
which  might  be  favored  or  smothered  by  life  experience,  stimu- 
lated or  suppressed  by  some  of  the  numerous  factors  on  which 
maturation  and  development  depend.  We  are  about  to  appreciate 
complementary  aspects,  that  is,  the  influence  which  endowment 
may  exercise  on  life  experience,  and  particularly  the  role  endow- 
ment may  play  in  facilitating  the  detachment  of  certain  ego  func- 
tions from  conflict,  in  establishing  autonomy  in  certain  activities.5 
These  views  prove  not  only  useful  in  organizing  clinical  impres- 
sions, but  particularly  stimulating  in  observing  child  development. 
However  significant  the  results  of  these  studies  may  prove  to  be 
one  day,  their  impact  on  the  problem  at  hand,  the  psychology  of 
the  artist,  will,  for  a  considerable  time,  remain  indirect. 

The  question  of  endowment  of  individuals  for  specific  activities 
may  gradually,  and  only  in  years  to  come,  play  an  increasing  role 
in  psychoanalytically  oriented  research.  The  second  problem  to 
which  we  were  led  by  our  discussion  of  Freud's  contribution  to 


280  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

our  understanding  of  Leonardo's  work  suggests  even  more  arduous 
detours. 

Historical  and  social  forces,  we  said,  shape  the  function  of  art 
in  general  and  more  specifically  that  of  any  given  medium  in  any 
given  historical  setting,  determining  the  frame  of  reference  in 
which  creation  is  enacted.  We  have  long  come  to  realize  that  art 
is  not  produced  in  an  empty  space,  that  no  artist  is  independent 
of  predecessors  and  models,  that  he  no  less  than  the  scientist  and 
the  philosopher  is  part  of  a  specific  tradition  and  works  in  a  struc- 
tured area  of  problems.  The  degree  of  mastery  within  this  frame- 
work and,  at  least  in  certain  periods,  the  freedom  to  modify  these 
stringencies  are  presumably  part  of  the  complex  scale  by  which 
achievement  is  being  measured.  However,  there  is  little  which  psy- 
choanalysis has  as  yet  contributed  to  an  understanding  of  the 
meaning  of  this  framework  itself;  the  psychology  of  artistic  style 
is  unwritten.6  We  may  expect  that  the  method  of  approach  will  be 
an  extremely  complex  one;  what  psychoanalysis  may  have  to  offer 
will  probably  depend  on  our  ability  to  view  the  phenomena  of 
style  in  art  at  least  in  part  in  terms  of  the  processes  of  discharge 
which  they  stimulate  in  artist  and  public. 

Investigative  procedures  which  have  this  goal  in  mind  will  have 
to  vary  according  to  the  medium  of  artistic  expression  examined. 
Psychoanalytic  experience  can  suggest  mainly  one  principle:  In- 
stead of  accepting  the  division  of  form  and  content,  maintained 
in  many  areas  of  the  history  and  the  criticism  of  art,  psychoanalytic 
orientation  suggests  the  value  of  establishing  their  interrelation.7 
To  illustrate  the  difficulties  of  such  attempts,  we  return  once  more 
to  Leonardo's  painting.  Our  understanding  of  his  achievement 
would  gain  if,  in  addition  to  being  able  to  demonstrate  that  the 
desire  to  unite  the  Christ  with  two  mothers  is  rooted  in  his  child- 
hood experiences,  we  were  able  to  find  a  similar  root  for  the 
specific  type  of  merging — for  instance,  for  the  construction  of  a 
pyramidal  unit  into  which  the  figures  are  made  to  fit.8 

The  third  of  the  main  avenues  on  which  psychoanalysis  ap- 
proached the  wide  area  of  art  led  to  the  study  of  the  artist's  imagi- 
nation. In  the  initial  stages  of  his  work,  Freud  felt  that  only  the 
attempt  at  vigorous  scientific  thinking  established  a  difference  be- 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  281 

tween  his  approach  and  that  of  the  intuitive  psychologists  among 
the  poets  whose  writings  he  had  always  admired.  Even  when  there 
was  no  longer  any  doubt  about  the  independent  character  of  the 
contribution  psychoanalysis  was  able  to  make,  late  in  his  life,  he 
spoke  of  philosophers,  writers,  poets  as  "the  few  to  whom  it  is 
vouchsafed  .  .  .  with  hardly  any  effort  to  salvage  from  the  whirl- 
pool of  their  emotions  the  deepest  truth  to  which  we  others  have  to 
force  our  way,  ceaselessly  groping  among  torturing  uncertainties." 

Throughout  the  history  of  analysis  statements  of  men  of  intro- 
spective genius  who  had  anticipated  some  aspect  of  psychoanalytic 
insight  have  been  quoted.  No  attempt  has  as  yet  been  made  to 
survey  this  material.  While  Plato,  Sophocles,  Shakespeare,  Pascal, 
Hobbes,  Lichtenberg,  Coleridge,  Goethe,  Melville,  Hawthorne, 
Nietzsche,  Henry  James,  and  Proust,  to  mention  only  a  few,  have 
contributed  views  which  in  many  ways  coincide  with  what  psycho- 
analysis has  ascertained  by  another  method,  the  fact  that  with 
each  of  these  men  another  aspect  of  psychological  dynamics  be- 
comes important  has  to  my  knowledge  never  been  fully  discussed; 
the  history  of  intuitive  insight  waits  to  be  written,  if  for  no  other 
purpose  than  to  demonstrate  how  the  great  are  less  than  others 
subject  to  the  limitations  which  cultural  and  historical  conditions 
impose. 

This  at  least  is  the  impression  one  gains  in  another  area,  in 
which  the  creations  of  the  masters  of  intuitive  psychology  were 
made  subjects  of  analysis.  Behavior  and  motivation  of  characters 
in  literature  are  viewed  as  the  analyst  views  his  patients;  the  scope 
of  these  studies  has  gradually  developed,  and  they  have  added  a 
new  dimension  to  our  understanding  of  literature.  Recurrent 
themes  in  the  works  of  certain  writers,  treatments  of  certain  con- 
flicts and  avoidance  of  others,  have  brought  us  closer  to  an  under- 
standing of  the  process  of  creation  in  literature  than  any  other 
approach;  and  yet  it  cannot  and  should  not  be  claimed  that  this 
approach  exhausts  all  aspects  relevant  to  what  can  be  called  here, 
loosely,  an  adequate  understanding  of  literature  as  art. 

The  reaction  of  the  writer  himself  to  psychoanalytic  interpreta- 
tions of  his  work  has  proved  revealing  in  the  few  instances  in 
which  it  has  been  recorded.  When  Freud  published  his  most  de- 


282  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tailed  analysis  of  a  work  of  narrative  art,  the  essay  on  dreams 
and  delusion  in  the  novel  Gradiva,  the  aged  author,  Wilhelm 
Jensen,  a  distinguished  but  not  outstanding  German  writer,  reacted 
to  the  publication  in  several  letters.  He  was  impressed  by  Freud's 
interpretation,  found  that  it  had  fully  come  to  grips  with  the  in- 
tention of  the  novel,  but  was  unaware  of  the  multiple  determinants 
in  the  hero's  dreams  and  delusion  to  which  Freud's  analysis  had 
pointed.  "It  might  be  best,"  he  wrote,  "to  attribute  the  description 
of  the  psychological  process  ...  to  poetic  intuition,  though  my 
original  training  as  a  physician  may  have  played  a  part."  9  When, 
during  analytic  treatment,  previously  produced  works  of  art  are 
investigated,  similar  responses  seem  to  be  typical.  Jensen's  ap- 
proval was  limited  to  the  recognition  of  the  link  between  conscious 
and  preconscious  thoughts  which  Freud  had  established,  but  his 
introspection  could  not  encompass  what  was  repressed.  During 
psychoanalytic  treatment  it  seems  comparatively  easy  to  establish 
connections  between  preconscious  elements  in  the  artist's  work 
and  those  of  which  he  had  always  been  aware.  The  contributions 
derived  from  the  storehouse  of  memories  and  the  sometimes  very 
numerous  clues  borrowed  from  one  or  the  other  source  in  the 
environment  and  condensed  into  a  single  trait  appear  in  analytic 
material  sometimes  without  particular  effort.10  But  only  extended 
analysis  leads  to  repressed  psychic  material,  to  motivation  from 
the  id — and  only  this  allows  full  demonstration  of  the  interaction 
and  interconnection  of  elements  derived  from  various  stages  of 
awareness.11 

The  study  of  this  interaction  entered  the  orbit  of  psychoanalytic 
investigations  early  in  its  history,  since  its  understanding  could  be 
based  on  a  comparison  of  the  dream  work  with  what  one  might 
call  the  "art  work";  a  comparison  particularly  significant  because 
of  the  differences  which  it  emphasizes.  Freud  himself  first  ap- 
proached the  topic  in  his  study  on  Wit  and  Its  Relation  to  the 
Unconscious  (1905),  and  since  several  of  the  essays  which  fol- 
low elaborate  his  thoughts,  we  limit  ourselves  here  to  one  remark 
only,  anticipating  what  will  later  be  discussed  in  greater  detail. 
The  relationship  of  the  ego  to  the  id  encompasses  not  only  the 
question  of  the  extent  to  which  id  strivings  are  being  satisfied  or 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  283 

warded  off  or  the  compromises  which  are  achieved.  It  also  en- 
compasses the  relationship  of  primary  to  secondary  processes;  but 
the  relationship  familiar  in  dream  work  is  reversed:  We  are  jus- 
tified in  speaking  of  the  ego's  control  of  the  primary  process  as  a 
particular  extension  of  its  functions.  What  in  the  dream  appears 
as  compromise  and  is  explained  in  terms  of  overdetermination 
appears  in  the  work  of  art  as  multiplicity  of  meaning,  which  stimu- 
lates differentiated  types  of  response  in  the  audience.  The  fruitful- 
ness  of  these  points  of  view  in  the  progress  of  modern  criticism 
and  the  theory  of  art  has  been  considerable;  it  seems  to  have 
stimulated  years  ago  the  work  of  William  Empson,  who  lately  has 
extended  his  approach  to  the  study  of  linguistics.  At  the  same 
time  it  offers  an  access  to  that  complex  field  which  we  mean  when 
we  speak  of  "the  psychology  of  the  artist." 

The  capacity  of  gaining  easy  access  to  id  material  without  being 
overwhelmed  by  it,  of  retaining  control  over  the  primary  process, 
and,  perhaps  specifically,  the  capability  of  making  rapid  or  at  least 
appropriately  rapid  shifts  in  levels  of  psychic  function,  suggest  psy- 
chological characteristics  of  a  definite  but  complex  kind.  The  most 
general,  one  might  say  the  only  general,  hypothesis  advanced  in 
this  respect  came  from  Freud  (1917),  who  speaks  of  a  certain 
"flexibility  of  repression"  in  the  artist.12  This  flexibility,  or  what- 
ever other  and  more  satisfactory  characteristics  we  might  establish, 
is  clearly  not  limited  to  the  artist:  These  characteristics  are  related 
to  those  conditions  in  which  id  impulses  intrude  upon  the  ego  and 
this  leads  to  the  question  of  the  extent  to  which  pathological  dis- 
positions may  be  part  of  what  constitutes  the  artist.  It  is  this 
problem  to  which  Freud  referred  when  he  said  (1905)  that  "a 
considerable  increase  in  psychic  capacity  results  from  a  predisposi- 
tion dangerous  in  itself."  The  protection  against  these  dangers  lies, 
according  to  Freud,  in  the  function  of  the  ego,  in  its  capacity  for 
sublimation. 

In  order  to  equip  ourselves  for  the  subsequent  steps  in  our  dis- 
cussion, it  is  necessary  at  this  point  to  widen  the  scope  of  our 
presentation  and  to  touch  upon  matters  seemingly  distant  from  our 
topic.  The  usage  of  the  word  "sublimation"  in  Freud's  own  writ- 
ings is  far  from  consistent  and  was  subject  to  a  number  of  vicissi- 


284  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tudes;  as  a  consequence  a  number  of  shades  of  meaning  persist  in 
general  psychoanalytic  usage.  However,  the  variations  of  meaning 
tend  to  be  less  frequently  discussed  than  the  conditions  under  which, 
according  to  clinical  observation,  sublimation  is  favored,  a  topic 
of  central  importance  in  all  therapeutic  contingencies. 

Sublimation,  listed  also  as  one  of  the  defense  mechanisms  of 
the  ego,  designates  two  processes  so  clearly  related  to  each  other 
that  one  might  be  tempted  to  speak  of  one  and  the  same  process: 
it  refers  to  the  displacement  of  energy  discharge  from  a  socially 
inacceptable  goal  to  an  acceptable  one  and  to  a  transformation  of 
the  energy  discharged;  for  this  second  process  we  here  adopt  the 
word  "neutralization."  13  The  usefulness  of  the  distinction  between 
the  two  meanings  becomes  apparent  when  we  realize  that  goal 
substitution  and  energy  transformation  need  not  be  synchronous; 
the  more  acceptable,  i.e.,  "higher,"  activity  can  be  executed  with 
energy  that  has  retained  or  regained  its  original  instinctual  quality. 
We  speak  then  of  sexualization  or  aggressivization.  Clinical  expe- 
rience points  to  this  danger  which  may  be  responsible  for  malfunc- 
tions of  various  kinds  from  symptom  formation  to  inappropriate 
performance. 

There  is  one  further  theoretical  problem,  particularly  complex 
yet  probably  of  considerable  significance,  that  has  still  to  be  men- 
tioned: Freud's  distinction  between  primary  and  secondary  proc- 
esses was  based  on  the  idea  that  in  the  former  energy  was  fluid, 
ready  for  immediate  discharge,  in  the  latter,  bound,  at  the  disposal 
of  the  ego.  One  might  be  inclined  to  assume  that  in  speaking  of 
neutralized  energy  we  have  in  fact  only  substituted  another  word 
for  bound  energy,  that  the  two  conditions  are  identical.  However, 
there  are  reasons  which  make  it  advisable  to  refer  to  both  condi- 
tions as  frequently  but  not  always  synchronous;  they  are  to  some 
extent  independent  variables.  Hence  the  degree  of  neutralization 
may  be  low,  yet  we  may  be  dealing  with  secondary  processes; 
while  fully  under  the  control  of  the  ego,  fully  bound,  the  energy 
may  still  have  retained  the  hallmark  of  libido  or  aggression. 

The  tools  which  psychoanalytic  theory  puts  here  at  our  dis- 
posal have  not  yet  been  fully  utilized.  It  seems  possible  not  only 
to  organize  the  structural  characteristics  of  various  types  of  ac- 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  285 

tivity  according  to  the  opportunities  they  offer  for  more  or  less 
direct  discharge  of  instinctual  energy,  but  also  to  organize  them 
according  to  the  degrees  of  neutralization  of  libidinal  and  aggres- 
sive energies  which  they  "require." 

The  topic  is  a  wide  one  and  fundamental  to  many  general  prob- 
lems in  adaptation  and  personality  development.  It  includes  the 
problem  of  secondary  autonomy  in  ego  functions  since  one  is  led 
to  the  assumption  that  secondary  autonomy  depends  on  the  irre- 
versibility of  energy  transformation,  i.e.,  on  the  permanent  or  rela- 
tively permanent  investment  of  the  ego  with  neutralized  aggressive 
or  libidinous  energies.  However,  in  addition  to  these  partial  and 
relatively  permanent  changes  in  energy  distribution  which  seem  to 
be  of  signal  importance  for  personality  development,  one  would 
have  to  account  also  for  the  energy  flux,  i.e.,  the  transitory  changes 
in  energy  distribution  and  redistribution  such  as  the  temporary  and 
shifting  reinforcement  of  sexual,  aggressive  or  neutral  energy  as  it 
may  occur  in  the  course  of  any  type  of  activity.  Sublimation  in 
creative  activity  might  conceivably  prove  to  be  distinguished  by 
two  characteristics:  the  fusion  in  the  discharge  of  instinctual  energy 
and  the  shift  in  psychic  levels. 

The  idea  of  the  fusion  of  libidinal  and  aggressive  energy  plays 
a  considerable  part  in  Freud's  formulation  on  psychoanalytic  the- 
ory. In  the  study  of  creative  activity,  however,  one  special  aspect 
of  this  broader  problem  may  prove  relevant,  namely,  the  special 
assumption  that  a  certain  degree  of  energy  neutralization  provides 
favorable  conditions  for  fusion  and  hence  for  the  mastery  of  even 
particularly  intense  instinctual  demands. 

In  speaking  of  shifts  of  psychic  levels  we  refer  to  the  organiza- 
tional functions  of  the  ego,  to  its  capacity  of  self-regulation  of 
regression  and  particularly  to  its  capacity  of  control  over  the  pri- 
mary process;  problems  which  in  some  of  the  subsequent  essays 
are  treated  in  relation  to  special  areas  of  investigation. 

We  cannot  in  the  present  context  and  at  the  present  stage  of 
our  understanding  attempt  to  elaborate  on  these  suggestive  possi- 
bilities and  have  to  abandon  the  idea  of  a  systematic  presentation 
lest  we  impose  too  great  a  strain  on  our  as  yet  limited  ability  to 
handle  highly  complex  problems  of  psychoanalytic  theory  in  ex- 


286  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

treme  abbreviation.  We  may  only  point  to  what  may  be  the  goal 
of  such  a  systematic  presentation.  As  far  as  artistic  activities  in 
the  broadest  sense  are  concerned  we  might  be  led  into  areas  of 
problems  with  which  traditionally  the  theory  or  philosophy  of  art 
deals  or  has  dealt,  problems  concerning  the  hierarchy  of  various 
media  and  various  works  of  art.  However,  there  is  no  doubt  that 
we  are  familiar  with  similar  problems,  though  on  a  different  level. 
In  clinical  practice,  by  rule  of  thumb,  views  concerning  both  spe- 
cific problems  of  energy  discharge  and  of  ego  functions  in  relation 
to  specific  types  of  creative  behavior  are  taken  for  granted. 

Our  expectations  are  significantly  limited  when  we  hear  that  a 
certain  patient  is  an  actor,  a  dancer,  a  cartoonist,  or  a  dress  de- 
signer. They  are  less  limited  but  still  significant  when  we  hear  that 
he  is  a  writer,  painter,  architect,  or  poet.  In  all  these  cases — in 
the  first  instances  more  definitely — we  expect  that  certain  typical 
conflict  constellations  will  more  likely  occur  than  others:  The 
problem  of  rapidly  changing  identification  may  be  crucial  in  the 
actor,  that  of  coping  with  exhibition  in  the  dancer,  the  wish  to 
distort  others  in  the  cartoonist,  and  to  adorn  them  in  the  dress 
designer;  but  each  of  these  dominant  wishes — which  we  here  have 
mentioned  only  in  order  to  characterize  one  direction  of  our  ex- 
pectations— is  clearly  merged  with  innumerable  other  tendencies 
in  the  individual,  and  each  of  them  is  rooted  in  his  history.  Ac- 
cording to  clinical  experience,  success  or  failure  in  these  profes- 
sions depends,  among  other  factors,  on  one  to  which  we  referred 
before:  on  the  extent  to  which  the  activity  itself  has  for  any  par- 
ticular individual  become  autonomous,  i.e.,  detached  from  the 
original  conflict  which  may  have  turned  interest  and  proclivity  into 
the  specific  direction.  It  is  at  this  point  that  the  much-discussed 
question  of  the  function  of  psychoanalytic  therapy  in  relation  to 
creative  capacities  can  be  considered.  Therapy  may  facilitate  or 
even  bring  about  this  detachment  of  creative  ability  and  of  the 
urge  to  create  from  immediate  conflict  involvement.14  At  this  point 
the  relation  to  the  "special  gifts  and  predispositions  which  are  not 
commonly  found  in  sufficient  degree"  gains  importance;  endow- 
ment facilitates  the  detachment  from  conflict  of  those  "higher  and 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  287 

finer"  types  of  activities  "in  art  and  science  which  at  all  times  are 
the  privilege  of  a  selected  few." 

Gifts  and  predispositions  have  to  be  studied  not  only  in  their 
relation  to  the  conflict  in  which  they  may  have  been  rooted,  and 
from  which  they  emerge,  but  also  in  relation  to  the  structure  of 
the  activity  in  which  they  are  put  to  use.  Here  again  a  variety  of 
conditions  has  to  be  taken  into  account,  foremost  among  them  the 
properties  of  the  media  and  their  function  under  those  special 
historical  conditions  which  determine  the  modes  of  expression  and 
the  "problems"  to  be  solved.  It  will  not  be  found  that  the  same 
equipment,  the  same  psychological  proclivities,  will  in  all  periods 
of  history  make  for  success — in  any  given  medium  or  in  artistic 
creation  in  general.  Thus  the  artist  whose  endowment  is  deter- 
mined at  least  in  part  by  the  "flexibility  of  repression"  to  which 
Freud  referred — the  one  who  borders  on  pathology  and  conquers 
it  by  his  work — is  likely  to  appear  as  a  leader  in  art  at  certain 
periods  and  not  in  others.  In  this  sense  the  "selection"  of  artistic 
leaders  may  well  proceed  according  to  the  same  general  principles 
which  seem  to  determine  the  selection  of  leadership  in  other  areas. 
In  the  same  sense  that  the  structure  of  a  political  situation  may 
attract  certain  personality  types  as  main  actors,  the  structure  of  a 
situation  in  the  development  of  art  in  general,  or  of  a  specific 
medium,  may  elicit  participation  from  those  whose  predispositions 
are  likely  to  fulfill  the  requirements  at  the  given  moment.  These 
requirements  may  in  turn  be  modified  by  the  participants;  thus  new 
and  different  types  of  personalities  may  become  important. 

Put  in  these  general  terms,  the  problems  seem  simple.  To  apply 
the  principle  to  any  concrete  field  is  another,  infinitely  more  diffi- 
cult, matter — one  that  once  more  reminds  us  of  the  wide  open 
spaces,  the  areas  where  integrated  research  alone  can  become  fruit- 
ful. From  what  is  known  at  present  we  may  deduce  that  the  artist 
whose  creative  capacities  are  close  to  potential  pathology  will  find 
his  place  more  easily  in  "romantic"  than  in  "classical"  periods  of 
art;  and  since  these  very  terms  are  not  too  well  defined,  except 
when  applied  to  the  historical  movements  of  the  eighteenth  and 
nineteenth  centuries,  the  psychological  aspect  may  help  to  clarify 
some  of  the  problems  traditionally  finked  to  what  we  call  "the 


288  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

style."  However,  the  very  contrast  we  mention  is  a  narrow  one; 
we  may  come  close  to  relevant  dichotomies  when  we  think  of  cul- 
tural conditions  in  which  skill  alone  predominates  and  is  seen  as 
value  in  art  and  others  where  skill  without  inspiration  is  held  in 
low  esteem — and  others  again  where  inspiration  with  even  less 
skill  becomes  acceptable  and  admired. 

In  the  history  of  almost  all  the  arts  since  the  eighteenth  century 
the  trend  to  an  increased  insistence  on  inspiration  seems  to  be 
detectable — dominant  in  certain  phases,  more  submerged  in  others, 
and  yet  clearly  continuous  as  a  movement  that  gained  increasing 
strength,  to  the  point  where  dream  and  fantasy  could  be  painted 
and  put  into  words,  where  relation  to  stringencies  became  less 
important,  and  where  finally  the  work  of  art  became  a  document 
of  the  process  of  creation.  In  the  field  of  literature  this  trend  has 
repeatedly  been  characterized,  particularly  by  Praz  and  Fretet;  in 
the  representational  arts  it  is  outlined  by  the  genealogy  which  leads 
from  Goya  to  van  Gogh  and  to  surrealism.15 

From  another  angle  we  now  approach  the  relation  of  psycho- 
analysis to  art:  During  the  last  decades  psychoanalytic  insights 
into  the  processes  of  artistic  creation  have  themselves  become  part 
of  art.  Creative  artists  of  our  day  are  wont  to  use  free  association 
as  a  training  ground  for  creative  thinking  or  as  an  independent 
mode  of  expression,  and  some  among  the  surrealists  have  assigned 
to  their  work  the  function  of  documenting  the  process  of  creation 
itself,  thus  making  explicit  what  previously  had  been  implicit.  In 
the  present  context  this  is  only  mentioned  since  it  indicates  a  re- 
versal of  functions;  psychoanalysis  and  its  discoveries  act  as  a 
social  force  upon  art  and  artist. 

If  in  the  light  of  these  limitations  we  review  once  more  the 
contributions  of  psychoanalysis  to  the  study  of  art,  the  question 
arises  of  the  extent  to  which  these  contributions  are  specific,  ap- 
plicable to  art  as  distinct  from  other  human  endeavors.  Obviously, 
this  specificity  is  true  only  in  a  limited  sense:  Newspaper  reports 
are  frequently  concerned  with  events  no  less  similar  to  general 
themes  in  mythology  and  individual  fantasy  than  are  great  works 
of  literature.  The  impact  of  childhood  on  all  human  activities  is 
permanent.  Psychological  intuition  is  a  prerogative  of  many  lead- 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  289 

ers  in  society,  and  while  it  is  particularly  important  in  many  types 
of  art,  problems  of  sublimation  and  neutralization  concern  a  much 
wider  field. 

The  quest  for  what  is  specific  to  the  psychological  processes 
connected  with  art,  its  creation  and  its  re-creation,  constitutes  a 
problem  that  we  can  hardly  hope  to  solve.  All  we  can  hope  is  to 
approach  it  from  afar,  but  we  are  entitled  to  value  every  step  we 
are  able  to  take  in  the  desired  direction.  We  propose  to  take 
structural,  dynamic,  and  economic  changes  which  seem  to  be  char- 
acteristic of  what  one  might  call  the  aesthetic  experience  into  ac- 
count. Our  starting  point  will  be  the  function  of  art  as  a  specific 
kind  of  communication  from  the  one  to  the  many. 


1  In  order  to  illustrate  the  difficulties  which  arise,  particularly  in  interdis- 
ciplinary communication,  we  mention  as  an  instance  only  Sterba's  summary 
of  Freud's  views  on  art  which  eliminates  many  misunderstandings  due  to 
what  might  be  called  the  "quotation  method."  Sterba  stresses  the  gradual 
unfolding  of  Freud's  ideas  and — perhaps  not  quite  sharply  enough  nor  in 
enough  detail — the  reformulations  which  occurred.  When  used  by  non- 
analysts — e.g.,  in  the  otherwise  excellent  book  by  Weitz — this  intention  of 
Sterba's  summary  is  largely  neglected;  psychoanalysis  continues  to  be  treated 
as  a  "static"  system. 

2  Findings  of  psychoanalysis  in  this  area  can  apparently  not  be  duplicated 
if  the  data  are  obtained  by  other  methods  than  psychoanalytic  observation 
and  therapy,  even  if  in  the  interpretation  of  data  a  psychoanalytic  viewpoint 
is  adopted. 

3  Investigations  of  problems  that  are  related  to  this  area  have  been  under- 
taken by  Roe,  largely  based  on  projective  tests.  Roe  started  out  to  study  and 
was  led  to  tentative  generalizations  in  the  area  of  vocational  choice,  gener- 
alizations which  are  of  considerable  interest,  e.g.,  a  comparison  of  feminine 
traits  in  artists,  scientists,  and  a  large  group  of  professions  comprising  teach- 
ers, ministers,  and  physicians. 

4  Bergler  writes,  "Personally  I  believe  that  we  are  able  to  define  the  bio- 
logical and  psychological  x  producing  the  phenomenon  'of  the  writer.'  Bio- 
logically it  consists  of  a  quantitative  increase  of  oral  tendencies,  including 
the  derivations  of  orality-voyeurism."  At  this  point  Bergler's  formulation 
seems  strictly  opposed  to  the  view  developed  later  in  this  essay.  However, 
Bergler  continues,  "These  two  biological  facts  do  not  per  se  make  a  writer. 
In  addition  there  is  a  specific  psychological  elaboration,  the  defensive 
'unification'  tendency  [Bergler's  italics]  denying  infantile  fancied  disap- 
pointments experienced  at  the  hands  of  the  preoedipal  mother,  by  autarchi- 
cally  setting  up  the  'mother  child  shop.'  "...  At  this  point  a  specific  defense 
mechanism    "encountered   exclusively   in   the   artistically   creative  person" 


290  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

[Bergler's  italics]  is  postulated.  It  seems  conceivable  that  such  a  specificity 
of  defense  mechanism  might  be  positively  correlated  with  a  certain  auton- 
omy in  ego  function,  both  primary  and  secondary. 

5  In  this  simplified  rendering  of  an  important  part  of  psychoanalytic  theory 
we  have  implied  certain  distinctions  suggested  by  Hartmann,  particularly  his 
distinction  between  primary  and  secondary  ego  autonomy. 

6  It  is  significant  that  no  other  psychological  approach  has  led  to  tangible 
or  meaningful  results.  Thus  the  attempt  to  use  Gestalt  psychology  by 
Sedlmayr  has  not  led  to  insight  into  the  psychology  of  style,  nor  have  re- 
cent contributions  by  Arnheim  and  others,  who  still  seem  to  be  engaged  in 
searching  for  a  "good"  Gestalt,  valid  under  all  historical  circumstances. 
Ehrenzweig  has  recently  successfully  broken  away  from  this  tradition  and 
attempted  to  combine  Gestalt  psychology  and  psychoanalytic  thinking.  How- 
ever, his  interest  is  largely  centered  on  a  phylogenetic  explanation.  There 
are  few  references  to  concrete  phenomena  familiar  to  the  psychoanalyst  or 
other  investigators  of  empirical  data.  Without  referring  explicitly  to  Gestalt 
psychology,  Weiss  has  pointed  to  what  I  think  may  prove  to  be  a  bridge  be- 
tween what  Gestalt  psychologists  would  refer  to  as  praegnanz  and  psycho- 
analytic thinking  when  he  suggests  that  "formal  aesthetic  pleasure  is  econ- 
omy of  expenditure  of  psychic  energy  in  perception." 

7  Freud's  translation  of  the  formal  characteristics  of  the  dream  into  latent 
dream  thoughts  offers  the  model  for  similar  investigations. 

The  psychoanalytic  approach  to  the  problem  of  formal  elaboration  has 
been  studied  also  in  relation  to  music,  a  field  which  I  do  not  feel  competent 
to  discuss. 

8  One  is  tempted  to  establish  a  connection  between  the  insertion  of  the  fig- 
ures into  a  superimposed  body  and  Leonardo's  interest  in  procreation  and 
pregnancy.  However,  I  do  not  feel  that  the  evidence  at  our  disposal  is  spe- 
cific enough  to  establish  a  relationship  between  "form  and  content"  on  a 
level  which  would  essentially  improve  our  understanding.  Pfister's  attempt 
to  recognize  in  the  painting  the  vulture  of  Leonardo's  screen  memory,  ana- 
lyzed by  Freud,  has  not  convinced  me. 

9  Judging  from  similar  instances,  that  part  can  only  have  been  a  minor 
one. 

10  The  psychological  approach  to  literary  criticism  has  achieved  its  most 
impressive  results  where  the  attempt  was  made  to  trace  similar  material  by 
a  study  of  the  artist's  life  history  and  the  sources  available  to  him.  It  suffices 
here  to  refer  to  Lowes'  work  on  Coleridge,  Murray's  on  Melville,  or  Paden's 
on  Tennyson.  For  the  specific  psychoanalytic  evaluation  of  material  thus 
assembled  see,  e.g.,  Beres'  recent  study  on  Coleridge. 

11  It  is  regrettable  that  clinical  material  of  this  kind  has  only  rarely  been 
available  and  in  most  instances  cannot  be  made  available.  It  should,  how- 
ever, be  said  that  it  tends  to  remain  highly  incomplete,  because  its  explora- 
tion is  part  and  parcel  of  the  analytic  process  and  subject  to  the  limitations 
imposed  by  the  therapeutic  purpose.  Similar  considerations  concern  artistic 
productions  during  the  course  of  analytic  treatment;  this  situation  is,  how- 
ever, even  more  complex,  since  artistic  productions  tend  to  be  influenced  by 
the  existence  of  the  analytic  contact  and  serve,  additionally  or  essentially, 
the  purpose  of  communication  in  analysis. 


The  Contribution  and  Limitations  of  Psychoanalysis  291 

12  Related  to  this  flexibility  is  another  of  Freud's  hypotheses,  his  emphasis 
on  the  artist's  bisexuality,  which  plays  frequently  a  role  in  the  passive  expe- 
rience during  creation. 

Various  authors  have  contributed  hypotheses  which  could  be  viewed  as 
pointing  to  ontogenetic  factors  related  to  both  of  Freud's  suggestions.  I  men- 
tion particularly  Lowenfeld  who  assumes  that  early  traumatic  experiences 
form  one  of  the  preconditions  to  artistic  creativity  in  stimulating  a  lasting 
need  to  repeat  actively  what  was  once  experienced  passively.  There  is  a  pos- 
sible connection  between  this  suggestion  and  those  of  Bergler's  (see  note  4), 
who  in  a  large  number  of  analyzed  cases  of  "writers"  found  among  other 
factors  the  prevalence  of  the  defense  against  oral-masochistic  tendencies. 
A  survey  of  these  and  other  views  on  the  psychoanalytic  psychology  of  "the 
artist"  is  not  intended  here.  Such  a  survey  would  have  to  distinguish  be- 
tween two  approaches:  There  are  those  who  connect  the  psychology  of  the 
artist  mainly  with  typical  patterns  of  conflict  and  those  who  focus  mainly 
on  structural  problems  in  the  artist's  personality.  At  the  present  time  the 
second  approach  seems  to  be  the  more  fruitful  one. 

13  We  do  so  since  "sublimation"  when  used  to  designate  energy  transfor- 
mation tends  to  designate  that  of  libido  only;  since  we  assume  throughout 
that  the  transformation  concerns  both  libido  and  aggression,  the  term  "neu- 
tralization" offers  better  opportunities  to  avoid  misunderstandings.  The  term 
"sublimation"  could  thus  be  reserved  for  the  relation  to  the  goal. 

14  The  alleged  sterilizing  effect  of  analytic  experiences  on  the  creator 
seems  in  this  context  as  another  example  of  a  spurious  topic;  we  would  be 
faced  with  instances  in  which  creation  was  solely  determined  by  conflict 
(e.g.,  solely  serving  the  purpose  of  defense)  and  did  not  have  a  place  in  the 
autonomous  sphere  of  the  ego.  This  seems  broadly  to  coincide  with  the  clin- 
ical experience  of  psychoanalysts:  The  gifted  artist  "spoiled  by  analysis" 
seems  to  be  a  rare  occurrence. 

15  Fretet,  a  literary  critic  and  physician,  stresses  that  "since  Rousseau, 
melancholic  and  delirious  states  play  a  prominent  role  in  the  history  of  art. 
They  have  a  literary  tradition.  .  .  ." 


Henry  Lowenfeld 


Psychic  Trauma  and 

Productive  Experience  in  the  Artist 


The  following  is  based  on  the  analysis  of  a 
woman  artist  in  the  course  of  whose  treatment  some  light  was 
thrown  on  a  process  of  artistic  development  that  is  characteristic 
of  at  least  one  type  of  artist. 

A  woman  of  thirty  sought  treatment  for  increasingly  serious 
states  of  anxiety  and  various  physical  complaints  and  inhibitions 
in  her  work  over  a  period  of  several  years.  She  felt  herself  a  fail- 
ure, unable  to  complete  anything  she  undertook.  For  years  her 
leading  symptom  had  been  hypochondriacal  ideas.  She  believed 
herself  to  be  suffering  from  chronic,  fatal  diseases  such  as  tubercu- 
losis of  the  throat,  arteriosclerosis  or  tumor  of  the  brain.  Behind 
these  hypochondriacal  fears  were  partly  concealed  paranoid  ideas. 

She  was  a  very  vivacious,  intelligent  woman  of  fine  appearance 
with  a  somewhat  unfriendly  facial  expression.  Her  manner  was 
partly  insecure  and  shy,  partly  aggressive.  She  was  preoccupied 
with  her  body  and  much  of  her  time  was  spent  in  all  sorts  of 
activities  revolving  about  her  appearance  and  health.  She  was  in- 
clined to  favor  mannish,  sport  clothes. 
292 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  293 

She  both  drew  and  painted.  In  her  early  career  she  had  drawn 
much  from  nude  models,  especially  women;  then  for  several  years 
she  painted  pictures  which  grew  out  of  dreamlike  visions  and  had 
a  fantastic,  mysterious  quality.  At  the  age  of  about  twenty-two, 
she  gave  up  this  type  of  work  for  commercial  art.  She  was  gifted 
and  original,  had  a  strong  imagination,  but  was  hindered  in  her 
work  by  a  technical  inadequacy  resulting  from  her  inability  to 
devote  herself  to  consistent  study,  a  situation  of  which  she  was 
painfully  conscious.  Difficulties  arising  in  her  work  created  a  feel- 
ing of  complete  insufficiency.  Wrestling  with  these  difficulties  was 
sometimes  fruitful  of  achievement  which  was  sufficient  to  win  her 
some  degree  of  recognition.  Despite  a  predominant  feeling  of  in- 
adequacy, she  also  had  moods  in  which  she  felt  distinctly  talented 
and  creative. 

She  had  a  brother,  two  and  a  half  years  older  than  she.  She 
herself  was  a  twin;  the  other  child,  a  big  handsome  boy,  died  a 
few  months  after  birth.  She  had  been,  she  was  told,  a  small  and 
sickly  child.  She  related  that  upon  delivery  she  had  been  placed 
upon  the  floor  and  ignored  because  everyone  was  busy  with  the 
second,  bigger  child,  a  difficult  delivery.  The  twin  brother  played 
an  important  part  in  her  fantasy. 

She  described  her  father,  a  landowner  who  had  died  a  few  years 
before,  as  a  coarse,  brutal  and  hot-tempered  person;  her  mother 
as  timid,  anxious,  constantly  worrying  and  complaining.  The  older 
brother  was  favored  by  both  parents.  He  was  a  bright,  obedient 
child,  while  she  was  defiant,  and  was  considered  intolerably  bad 
and  disobedient  by  the  whole  family.  She  quarreled  frequently 
with  her  father  who  beat  her  when  angered.  On  such  occasions 
she  would  heap  abuse  on  him  with  all  the  resources  of  her  vocabu- 
lary and  wish  he  were  dead. 

The  period  between  her  seventeenth  and  twenty-second  years 
was  artistically  her  most  productive.  A  sexual  experience  with 
an  older  man  was  followed  by  several  Lesbian  relationships  in 
which  she  played  the  more  passive  role,  and  in  which  she  felt 
comparatively  content.  During  the  same  period  she  had  several 
flirtations  with  men  in  which  she  remained  indifferent  until  she 
met  the  man  she  married.  She  saw  in  him  a  powerful,  athletic 


294  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

man.  This  attracted  her  and  was,  in  her  opinion,  the  decisive  factor 
in  her  choice.  But  in  the  marriage  relationship  it  developed  that 
he  took  the  more  passive,  devoted  attitude  toward  her,  while  she 
played  a  more  masculine  active  role,  at  times  tormenting  and 
sadistic.  She  could  become  sexually  excited,  but  never  completely 
satisfied. 

From  childhood  and  particularly  frequently  in  recent  years,  she 
had  dreams  from  which  she  awoke  in  terror  or  with  feelings  of 
horror.  The  dreams  were  mostly  of  scenes  of  war:  revolution, 
bombardments,  riots  from  which  she  was  trying  to  flee  though 
paralyzed  with  fear. 

Her  life  consisted  of  an  alternation  between  hunger  for  experi- 
ences and  excitement — a  "greed  for  impressions"  as  she  called  it 
— and  escape  and  withdrawal.  The  short  periods  of  hunger  for 
experience  and  excitement  quickly  led  to  increased  anxiety  and 
to  paranoid  delusions  in  which  she  imagined  herself  being  hurt, 
robbed  or  persecuted  by  women.  There  were  experiences  in  which 
it  was  impossible  to  determine  what  was  delusion  on  her  part  and 
what  reality,  because  she  probably  unconsciously  provoked  situa- 
tions which  made  various  women  become  her  enemies.  Hypochon- 
driacal sensations  of  every  type  she  interpreted  as  confirmation  of 
her  fears.  She  would  get  a  feeling  of  being  completely  abandoned, 
unloved  and  incapable  of  loving.  She  would  lose  all  contact  with 
the  world  around  her.  This  detached  state  likewise  led  to  anxieties. 
Interest  in  her  own  body  was  her  roundabout  way  of  finding  con- 
tact with  the  outer  world  once  more.  A  new  dress  could  banish 
her  despair. 

She  had  numerous  recollections  from  early  childhood  of  in- 
stances when  her  father,  in  a  sort  of  rude  tenderness,  would  place 
his  whole  weight  upon  her.  She  could  not  breathe  and  feared  be- 
ing crushed,  suffocated.  Her  protests  angered  her  father  and  this 
often  led  to  violent  scenes.  On  one  such  occasion  (warding  off 
her  father  with  her  knee  drawn  back)  with  the  heel  of  her  shoe 
she  wounded  her  genitals  sufficiently  to  cause  bleeding.  She  was 
greatly  frightened.  Her  mother,  equally  frightened,  called  a  doctor. 
Toward  her  guilty  father  she  felt  revengeful  satisfaction.  This  event 
was  the  basis  of  a  sleeping  ceremonial:  to  this  day  she  sleeps 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  295 

with  one  hand  on  her  genitals,  one  leg  drawn  back,  as  though  in 
defense. 

Another  important  experience  of  her  childhood  occurred  in 
about  her  seventh  year.  After  an  address  by  her  father  in  the 
legislature,  a  mob  tried  to  force  its  way  into  her  parents'  house; 
stones  were  tossed  against  the  windows  which  were  hastily  shut. 
Her  father  was  absent,  and  the  family  was  in  terror.  Both  of  these 
traumatic  experiences  returned  repeatedly  in  her  dreams  in  com- 
bined form.  From  the  same  period  she  also  has  recollections  of 
states  of  anxiety  when  on  her  father's  return  from  one  of  his  fre- 
quent trips  she  was  sent  from  her  parents'  to  her  own  adjoining 
bedroom.  She  would  try  to  overhear  what  was  taking  place,  and 
apparently  experienced  numerous  primal  scenes  or  fantasies  in 
this  way. 

These  experiences,  recurrent  in  her  anxiety  dreams,  were  fol- 
lowed by  two  more  experiences,  decisive  for  the  later  onset  of  the 
neurosis.  When  she  was  about  twenty-one,  a  well-known  clair- 
voyant predicted  that  she  would  end  her  life  in  insanity  or  by 
suicide,  and  warned  her  not  to  masturbate  so  much.  In  order  to 
understand  fully  the  disastrous  effect  of  this  prophecy,  one  must 
know  in  detail  the  history  of  her  infantile  masturbation  in  which 
prohibitions  and  warnings  of  terrible  sicknesses  played  an  impor- 
tant part.  It  is  sufficient  here  to  point  out  that  she  had  been  in 
the  habit,  during  almost  intoxicated  periods  of  artistic  activity, 
of  rubbing  against  the  edge  of  her  easel,  thus  providing  herself 
with  a  sexual  stimulus.  Following  the  prophecy  she  gave  up  this 
type  of  activity,  thus  losing  a  safety  valve  for  her  tensions.  From 
this  point  began  the  real  development  of  her  neurosis,  at  first 
evident  in  withdrawal  and  restraint,  later  in  the  occurrence  of 
states  of  anxiety. 

Following  an  unnecessary  appendectomy  and  many  other  thera- 
peutic failures  she  lost  faith  in  doctors  and  now  turned  to  spiritual- 
ism. While  in  a  trance  a  medium  received  messages  foretelling 
that  the  city  in  which  the  patient  lived  was  to  be  destroyed  by 
force  from  above.  This  prediction  placed  the  patient  in  such  a 
state  of  anxiety  that  she  fled  from  home.  The  basis  of  her  belief 
in  this  prophecy  could  be  traced  to  her  childhood.  For  years  she 


296  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

had  awaited  the  inevitable  coming  of  disaster.  By  fearing  it  she 
sought  to  prevent  it.  Only  if  she  thought  of  it  constantly,  would 
it  perhaps  not  occur.  In  her  recollections  from  childhood  her  father 
appeared  as  an  inexorable  force,  blocking  every  avenue  of  escape. 
This  inescapable,  inexorable  force  now  appeared  as  the  destruc- 
tive danger  from  above.  Or  perhaps  it  was,  "a  snake  which  climbs 
down  the  wall"  into  her  bed;  or  the  horror  she  felt  at  the  sight 
of  bloody  fishes  or  small  birds  both  in  her  dreams  and  in  reality. 
This  feeling  of  the  inevitable  was  also  a  part  of  her  delusion  of 
sickness.  We  find  here  a  feeling  of  guilt  the  consequences  of  which 
are  inescapable.1 

Vague  occult  ideas  she  sought  to  withhold  from  the  analysis  as 
her  most  intimate  secrets.  According  to  them,  the  human  being 
lives  several  different  lives,  having  to  atone  in  each  life  for  the 
guilt  of  the  preceding  one.  She  believed  herself  to  have  been  one 
of  the  first  feminists.  Not  having  been  able  to  reconcile  herself  to 
being  a  woman,  she  became  a  man.  In  her  next  incarnation  she 
was  to  be  born  a  boy  but  die  young  in  atonement  for  her  previous 
life.  However  she  had  to  fulfill  her  fate  as  a  woman.  In  another 
incarnation  she  was  destined  to  die  in  childbirth.  This  conflict  be- 
tween masculine  and  feminine,  mixed  with  feelings  of  guilt,  found 
expression  in  her  painting.  She  imagined  that  she  did  not  create 
pictures  herself,  but  made  copies  under  the  astral  guidance  of  a 
man  who  transmitted  them  to  her. 

While  this  patient  had  rejected  her  father,  she  had  sought  by 
every  means,  particularly  illness,  to  bind  her  mother  more  closely 
to  her.  She  lived  in  constant  fear  that  her  mother  would  have  an- 
other child.  An  aunt,  living  in  the  same  house,  she  had  seen  preg- 
nant several  times.  She  loved  her  dearly  and  developed  violent 
sadistic  impulses  against  the  pregnant  body  of  her  aunt  who,  in 
this  condition,  could  no  longer  take  her  on  her  lap.  Her  childhood 
and  later  life  were  characterized  by  this  strongly  ambivalent  atti- 
tude toward  both  parents. 

The  coincidence  of  artistic  talent  and  neurotic  disposition  has 
long  been  observed.  Artistically  talented  persons  almost  without 
exception  are  subject  to  neurotic  conflicts.  They  suffer  periods  of 
neurotic  inhibition  in  their  work,  periods  of  depression  and  hypo- 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  297 

chondria,  fear  of  insanity,  tendencies  toward  paranoid  reactions, 
and,  relatively  frequently,  schizophrenia.  Freud  has  emphasized 
that  the  essential  talent  of  the  artist  cannot  be  explained  by  psy- 
choanalysis. In  Dostojewski  und  die  Vatertotung  he  speaks  of 
Dostoevsky's  "unanalyzable  artistic  talent."  Artistic  sublimation 
appears  to  be  possible  only  with  the  concurrence  of  definite  ele- 
ments of  talent.  Nevertheless,  one  might  ask  what  forces  drive 
toward  sublimation.  In  order  to  achieve  a  better  understanding  of 
the  connection  between  artist  and  neurosis,  one  must  investigate 
the  nature  of  the  artist's  instincts  and  psychic  structure.  On  this 
basis,  the  urge  to  artistic  production  as  well  as  the  danger  of  neu- 
rotic illness  might  be  explained. 

In  the  case  here  presented  the  striking  element  is  the  signifi- 
cance of  traumata  for  the  patient's  life.  Experiences  which  are  little 
different  from  the  experiences  of  other  people  take  on  a  traumatic 
character  and  are  fitted  into  the  patient's  traumatic  pattern.  More- 
over, she  provokes  situations  which  for  her  become  traumatic. 
Her  early  experiences  with  her  father,  it  is  true,  must  be  regarded 
as  typical  psychic  traumata — repeated  stimuli  of  such  character 
and  intensity  that  the  child  is  unable  to  cope  with  them.  Although 
it  must  be  assumed  that  every  child  has  experiences  which  have 
traumatic  effect  upon  the  still  weak  ego,  we  seem  to  deal  here 
with  a  degree  of  traumatic  susceptibility  exceeding  the  normal. 
Here  one  is  reminded  of  the  numerous  statements  of  artists  them- 
selves concerning  the  nature  of  their  experience.  Out  of  the  wealth 
of  such  familiar  and  often  quoted  autobiography,  we  quote  from 
the  famous  dramatist,  Hebbel:  "I  am  often  horrified  at  myself 
when  I  realize  that  my  irritability,  instead  of  decreasing,  is  con- 
stantly increasing,  that  every  wave  of  emotion,  arising  even  from 
a  grain  of  sand  thrown  by  chance  into  my  soul  breaks  about  my 
head."  In  Ricarda  Huch's  book  on  the  romantic  movement  we 
find  this  alternation  between  oversensitivity  and  dullness  and  in- 
sensitivity  presented  in  innumerable  variations.  The  artist,  she  says, 
"is  constantly  occupied  in  reacting  to  the  endless  stimulations  he 
receives,  his  heart,  seat  of  irritability,  tortures  itself  in  this  strug- 
gle, driving  his  blood  violently  through  the  organism  to  the  point 
of  powerless  exhaustion,  to  be  aroused  by  stimuli  once  more."  2 


298  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

If  we  very  briefly  summarize  the  comments  about  the  artist  to 
be  found  in  analytic  literature,  we  have  the  following:  the  essential 
material  from  which  the  artist  constructs  his  work  is  derived  from 
unconscious  fantasies  in  which  his  unsatisfied  wishes  and  longings 
find  expression.  The  compelling  experience  stems  from  the  Oedi- 
pus complex.  The  artist  suffers,  according  to  Sachs'  formulation, 
more  than  others  from  a  feeling  of  guilt  from  which,  through  the 
participation  of  others  in  his  art,  he  achieves  recognition  and  is 
able  to  free  himself.  The  narcissism  of  the  artist  transfers  itself  to 
his  work.  In  the  literature  of  the  past  few  years  emphasis  has 
been  given  to  reparation  of  the  destroyed  object  as  a  function 
of  art. 

In  our  case  we  find  confirmation  of  these  observations.  As  long 
as  the  patient's  artistic  work,  relatively  uninhibited,  could  serve 
as  an  outlet  for  her  tensions,  she  was  able  to  spare  herself  the 
formation  of  neurotic  symptoms.  In  her  work  of  this  period,  as 
in  her  dreams  later  on,  she  repeatedly  portrayed  the  traumatic 
experiences  of  her  childhood  as  well  as  traumata  of  her  later  life. 
The  repetition  compulsion  demands  that  the  injury  be  overcome 
again  and  again.  But  why  does  this  not  finally  succeed?  Why  does 
this  compulsion  not  cease,  as  in  the  genuine  traumatic  neuroses 
which  after  some  time  usually  subside? 

In  genuine  traumatic  neurosis  the  stimulus  defense  is  perpe- 
trated by  an  external  trauma.  The  intensity  of  the  excitation  is  too 
great  to  be  overcome  at  the  instant  of  occurrence.  The  attempt 
to  overcome  it  is  continued  afterwards,  but  the  trauma  itself  re- 
mains a  solitary  experience.  In  our  case — and  this  appears  char- 
acteristic for  artistic  sensitivity — the  trauma  is  re-experienced  in- 
definitely. As  long  as  the  drive  which  led  to  the  trauma  is  active, 
it  remains  unaltered  and  subject  to  the  repetition  compulsion.  The 
danger  feared  is  one  of  re-experiencing  a  former  state  of  helpless- 
ness produced  by  an  overwhelming  excitation.  A  greater  accessi- 
bility to  the  unconscious  characteristic  of  the  artist  brings  him  to 
closer  proximity  to  the  strata  of  the  psyche  in  which  the  primitive 
impulses  rule. 

The  testimony  of  many  artists  bears  witness  to  a  particular  irri- 
tability, a  more  than  average  impressionability  conducive  to  psychic 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  299 

traumata,  having  its  basis  in  the  transformation  of  instincts  and 
the  "constitution"  of  the  individual.  We  know  more  about  the  fate 
of  the  instincts  than  about  constitution.  The  strong  instinctual  ex- 
citations, never  completely  discharged,  give  even  trivial  experi- 
ences a  particularly  impressive  character.  About  the  corresponding 
constitution  little  is  known,  but  one  is  forced  to  assume  its  exist- 
ence. One  most  important  aspect  of  this  constitution  is  the  nar- 
cissism of  the  artist  of  whose  significance  the  statements  of  artists  3 
themselves  and  the  results  of  analytical  studies  leave  no  doubt. 
The  psychopathology  of  artists  likewise  points  to  narcissism:  hypo- 
chondria, depressive  and  paranoid  tendencies,  frequent  schizo- 
phrenias. 

In  Dostojewski  und  die  Vatertotung,  Freud  states  that  a  bisexual 
constitution  is  one  of  the  conditions  or  furthering  factors  of  the 
neurosis.  "Such  [a  constitution]  must  definitely  be  assumed  for 
Dostoevsky  and  manifests  itself  in  potential  form  (latent  homo- 
sexuality) in  the  significance  for  his  life  of  friendships  with  men, 
in  his  remarkably  tender  attitude  toward  rivals  in  love  and  in  his 
unusual  understanding  for  situations  which  can  only  be  regarded 
as  repressed  homosexuality,  as  many  examples  from  his  writings 
bear  witness.  .  .  ."  Another  part  of  the  same  paper  says:  "We  may 
trace  the  fact  of  his  extraordinary  feeling  of  guilt  as  well  as  his 
masochistic  way  of  living  back  to  a  particularly  strong  feminine 
component.  That  is  the  formula  for  Dostoevsky:  a  man  of  espe- 
cially strong  bisexual  constitution." 

This  formula  may  well  hold  true  for  the  artist  in  general.  Above 
all,  it  throws  light  upon  the  coincidence  of  artist  and  neurosis. 
Heightened  bisexuality,  a  complication  in  the  resolution  of  the 
Oedipus  phase,  increases  ambivalence  and  feelings  of  guilt,  thus 
giving  rise  to  conflicts  which  easily  lead  to  neurosis. 

The  concept  of  bisexuality,  emphasized  by  Freud  for  Dostoev- 
sky, contains  a  truism  which  has  been  stated  by  most  artists  in 
moments  of  self-expression.  In  bodily  structure,  too,  particularly 
in  likenesses  of  young  artists  we  find  a  conspicuously  large  number 
of  characteristics  of  the  opposite  sex.  We  are  familiar  with  the  rela- 
tive frequence  of  overt  homosexuality  or  strong  homosexual  tend- 
encies in  artists  of  both  sexes.  Sappho  gave  Lesbian  love  its  name. 


300  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

In  Freud's  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  Sadger's  Kleist,  and  in  Hebbel  and 
many  others,  the  strong  bisexual  element  is  established.  Kris  writes 
in  his  paper  on  Franz  Xavier  Messerschmidt  that  in  his  self-portrait 
"the  defense  against  seduction  as  a  woman"  plays  the  essential  part. 
"What  he  creates — his  own  countenance — seems  feminine  to  him." 
In  Ricarda  Huch's  book  on  the  German  romantic  movement,  we 
find  an  abundance  of  such  material. 

In  the  case  of  the  patient  we  have  described,  parturition  fan- 
tasies were  prominent  in  childhood  and  puberty.  Later,  pregnancy 
and  childbirth  filled  her  with  horror  and  disgust.  Her  dream  life 
was  nevertheless  filled  with  fear-wracked  anal  parturition  fantasies 
which  usually  terminated  in  an  incapacity  to  give  birth  and  a  re- 
turn to  her  mother.  Her  variously  determined  physical  symptoms 
proved  in  part  to  be  distorted  pregnancy  fantasies.  Beside  the  guilt 
feeling  which  ruled  her  life,  the  feeling  of  "inadequacy  of  her  body" 
played  a  decisive  part  in  the  frustration  of  her  desire  for  children. 
The  feeling  of  inadequacy  arose  from  comparison  with  the  favored 
brother  and  with  the  beautiful  deceased  twin.  The  symbolic  equation, 
child  =  penis,  was  also  transferred  to  her  artistic  activity  and  was 
lost  only  temporarily  when  an  artist  birth  act,  after  violent  struggle, 
was  successfully  carried  to  completion. 

We  find  such  comparisons  in  the  writings  of  numerous  artists, 
in  which  the  hardships  as  well  as  the  pleasures  of  creation,  in  like 
manner,  are  repeatedly  described  as  the  pains  and  pleasures  of  giv- 
ing birth,  and  in  which  their  own  works  are  spoken  of  as  their 
children.  Thus  Thomas  Mann  writes  that  "all  forming,  creating, 
producing  is  pain,  struggle  and  pangs  of  labor."  Rank  cites  Alfred 
de  Musset:  ".  .  .  Creation  confuses  me  and  makes  me  shudder. 
Execution,  always  too  slow  for  my  desire,  stirs  my  heart  to  terrible 
palpitation  and  weeping,  holding  back  violent  cries  only  with  dif- 
ficulty, I  give  birth  to  an  idea."  In  another  place:  "It  [the  idea] 
oppresses  and  torments  me,  until  it  becomes  realizable,  and  then 
the  other  pains,  labor  pains,  set  in,  actual  physical  pains  that  I 
cannot  define.  Thus  my  life  passes  away,  if  I  let  myself  be  domi- 
nated by  this  giant  of  an  artist  who  abides  in  me."  Here  we  see 
the  tension  between  the  two  elements  distinctly  expressed.  The  be- 
getting in  work  emphasizes  sometimes  the  masculine,  sometimes 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  301 

the  feminine  element — creation  or  surrender.  In  the  fantasies  of 
my  patient  regarding  her  work,  this  split  was  clearly  expressed  by 
the  fantasy  that  her  drawings  were  delivered  to  her  by  a  painter,  a 
man;  she  merely  copied  them.  In  another  life,  she  had  been  a  man 
and  the  dead  boy  twin  was  a  part  of  her  for  which  she  was  con- 
stantly searching. 

This  conflict  and  tension  can  never  be  completely  resolved  in 
actual  life;  it  represents,  in  a  way,  a  condition  of  unavoidable, 
inherent  frustration.  This  frustration  is  the  source  of  the  artist's 
fantasy,  driving  him  again  and  again  to  forsake  disillusioning  reality 
and  to  create  a  world  for  himself  in  which  he,  in  his  imagination, 
can  realize  his  desires.  It  forces  him  to  sublimation.  The  play  of 
the  child  too,  to  which  Freud  has  linked  the  fantasy  of  the  artist, 
develops  from  the  circumstance  that  the  child  for  biological  rea- 
sons is  still  largely  denied  the  realization  of  his  desires  and  the 
mastering  of  reality.  It  is  characteristic  of  the  artist  that  gratifica- 
tion by  fantasy  alone  does  not  satisfy  him;  he  feels  the  urge  to  give 
form,  to  give  birth  to  his  work.  The  birth  of  the  work  leads  tem- 
porarily to  satisfaction  and  relief  from  tension. 

The  analogy  to  children's  play  is  even  closer,  serving  as  it  does 
the  two  purposes:  one,  the  pleasurable  gratification  from  fantasies 
in  which  unfulfilled  wishes  are  realized;  second,  the  mastering  of 
painful  experiences  in  repetitious  acting-out.  We  find  both  elements 
in  the  artist's  work.  Frustration  drives  him  to  construct  his  own 
imaginary  world  of  gratification,  and  in  his  art  overcathexed  ex- 
periences are  constantly  re-created  as  in  play.  In  comparing  the 
works  belonging  to  different  periods  of  an  artist's  life,  we  find  a 
predominance  now  of  one  element  and  now  of  the  other. 

Returning  briefly  to  the  problem  of  susceptibility  to  trauma, 
one  might  speculate  as  to  whether  the  traumatophilia  of  the  artist 
cannot  be  linked  to  his  heightened  bisexuality.  This  bisexuality 
makes  a  unified,  nonambivalent  object  relationship  difficult  in  rela- 
tion to  both  sexes,  thus  favoring  narcissistic  libido  fixation  which 
again  increases  the  danger  of  trauma.  In  a  very  enlightening 
passage  from  Hebbel's  diary,  we  find  this  concept  implicitly  stated. 
He  writes  that  of  the  "two  antitheses"  only  one  is  ever  given  to  us. 


302  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

The  one  having  advanced  into  existence,  however,  yearns  con- 
stantly towards  the  other,  sunk  back  into  the  core.  If  it  could 
really  grasp  it  in  spirit  and  identify  itself  with  it;  if  the  flower  for 
example  could  really  conceive  the  bird,  then  it  would  momen- 
tarily dissolve  into  it;  flower  would  become  bird,  but  now  the 
bird  would  long  to  be  the  flower  again;  thus  there  would  no 
longer  be  life  but  a  constant  birth  and  rebirth,  a  different  kind  of 
chaos.  The  artist  has  in  part  such  a  position  to  the  universe;  hence 
the  eternal  unrest  in  a  poet,  all  eventualities  come  so  close  that 
they  would  embitter  all  reality  for  him,  if  the  power  which  en- 
genders them  did  not  likewise  liberate  him  from  them,  in  that  he, 
by  giving  them  shape  and  form,  himself  assists  them,  in  a  way, 
to  reality,  thus  breaking  their  magic  spell;  it  requires,  however,  a 
great  deal  and  far  more  than  any  human  being  who  does  not 
experience  it  himself,  within  himself,  can  surmise,  not  to  lose 
equilibrium.  And  natures  lacking  genuine  form-giving  talent  must 
of  necessity  be  broken  in  spirit,  whence,  therefore,  so  much  pain, 
and  madness  too. 

A  problem  is  touched  upon  here  which  is  of  basic  significance 
for  this  discussion — the  problem  of  identification.  The  significance 
of  bisexuality  in  the  life  of  the  artist  receives  here  its  main  support. 
For  how  could  the  artist  succeed  accurately  in  portraying  so  many 
characters  of  both  sexes  if  he  did  not  find  them  within  the  realm  of 
his  own  experience?  What,  for  instance,  would  bring  the  male  artist 
to  describe  the  life  of  a  woman  if  he  did  not  in  so  doing  repro- 
duce his  own  unfulfilled  experience?  In  the  striving  to  solve  and 
overcome  ambivalent  attitudes,  identification  is  always  attempted. 
The  artist  projects  his  ego  in  polymorphous  transformations  into 
his  work,  that  is,  he  projects  his  inner  experiences  into  an  imagined 
outer  world.  The  real  outer  world,  however,  is  also  experienced 
by  identification.  We  find  then  a  process  of  alternate  introjection 
and  projection.  No  better  description  of  this  can  be  given  than 
that  found  in  a  letter  of  Schiller: 

All  creatures  born  by  our  fantasy,  in  the  last  analysis,  are  nothing 
but  ourselves.  But  what  else  is  friendship  or  platonic  love  than  a 
wanton  exchange  of  existences?  Or  the  contemplation  of  one's 
Self,  in  another  glass?  .  .  .  The  eternal,  inner  longing  to  flow  into 
and  become  a  part  of  one's  fellow  being,  to  swallow  him  up,  to 
clutch  him  fast,  is  love. 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  303 

Artistic  expression  is  the  sublimation  of  this  eternal,  inner  longing. 
The  quest  for  exactness  of  expression,  the  passion  for  the  mot  juste 
arises  from  this  never  fully  satisfied  urge;  the  struggle  with  the 
word  is  the  struggle  for  identification  in  sublimated  form.  Flaubert, 
who  would  struggle  for  days  for  a  single  phrase,  wrote:  "If  one 
possesses  the  picture  or  the  feeling  very  exactly  within  one's  self, 
then  the  word  must  follow." 

How  the  urge  to  identification  is  experienced  and  the  urge  to 
creation  arises  from  it,  is  very  sensitively  described  in  a  short  story 
by  Virginia  Woolf.  She  describes  a  railroad  journey.  Opposite  her 
sits  a  poor  woman  whose  unhappy  expression  leaves  her  no  peace. 
"Ah,  but  my  poor,  unfortunate  woman,  do  play  the  game — do,  for 
all  our  sakes,  conceal  it!"  The  game  that  all  people  should  play 
is  to  conceal  their  feelings.  The  unfortunate  woman  had  a  twitch, 
a  queer  headshaking  tic.  The  author  attempts  to  keep  herself  from 
being  influenced,  tries  to  protect  herself  by  reading  the  Times.  In 
vain.  Then  they  exchange  a  few  words.  And  while  the  poor  woman 
speaks,  "she  fidgeted  as  though  the  skin  on  her  back  were  as  a 
plucked  fowl's  in  a  poulterer's  shop-window."  Further  on  we  read: 

All  she  did  was  to  take  her  glove  and  rub  hard  at  a  spot  on  the 
windowpane.  She  rubbed  as  if  she  would  rub  something  out  for 
ever — some  stain,  some  indelible  contamination.  Indeed,  the  spot 
remained  for  all  her  rubbing,  and  back  she  sank  with  the  shudder 
and  the  clutch  of  the  arm  I  had  come  to  expect.  Something  im- 
pelled me  to  take  my  glove  and  rub  my  window.  There,  too,  was 
a  little  speck  on  the  glass.  For  all  my  rubbing  it  remained.  And 
then  the  spasm  went  through  me;  I  crooked  my  arm  and  plucked 
at  the  middle  of  my  back.  My  skin,  too,  felt  like  the  damp  chick- 
en's skin  in  the  poulterer's  shop-window;  one  spot  between  the 
shoulders  itched  and  irritated,  felt  clammy,  felt  raw.  .  .  .  But  she 
had  communicated,  shared  her  secret,  passed  her  poison. 

Still  seeking  to  protect  herself,  the  author  begins  to  fantasy  about 
the  life  of  the  woman,  filling  the  next  twenty  pages  with  her  imagin- 
ings. She  entitles  the  story,  "An  Unwritten  Novel,"  by  which  she 
would  seem  to  reveal  that  the  resolution  through  identification  has 
not  been  successful.  Here  we  find  pictured  the  urge  to  iden- 
tification, as  well  as  the  threat  to  the  ego  from  it,  the  threat 


304  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  being  overwhelmed  by  an  exaggerated  response  to  an  external 
stimulus  reaching  traumatic  proportions. 

In  this  ready  identification  of  the  artist  there  remains  an  element 
of  magic  which  is  conspicuous  in  the  imitativeness  of  children  at 
play.  The  tendency  quickly  to  identify  is  a  basic  feature  of  the 
world  of  magic.  The  artist,  susceptible  to  magic  to  strong  degree, 
is  able  to  charm  others  so  that  they  in  turn  feel  themselves  one 
with  him. 

It  seems  that  surrender  of  the  artist  to  the  world  is  almost  always 
automatically  bound  up  with  an  attitude  of  defense  and  protection, 
so  that  the  artist  never  seems  to  belong  completely.  It  is  only  this 
defense  attitude  which  allows  him  to  express  his  experience  in  his 
work.  It  may  very  safely  be  asserted  that  artists  who  do  not  have 
this  defensive  attitude  become  incapable  of  living  or  creating.  This 
is  true  of  those  artistic  natures  that  succumb  early  to  disease,  seek 
narcotics,  resort  to  drugs,  and  sooner  or  later  destroy  their  per- 
sonalities. In  my  patient,  this  defensive  attitude  was  too  rigid;  she 
had  no  freedom  of  identification,  the  anxiety  was  too  great,  so  that 
her  artistic  productivity  was  inhibited. 

SUMMARY 

Susceptibility  to  trauma,  a  strong  tendency  to  identification,  nar- 
cissism, and  bisexuality  in  the  artist  are  related  phenomena. 

The  basis  of  the  drive  to  artistic  accomplishment  lies  in  a  height- 
ened bisexuality.  Closely  related  with  this  is  a  traumatophilia, 
compelling  the  artist  to  seek  and  then  overcome  the  trauma  in  con- 
tinual repetition.  From  the  latent  frustration  develops  the  artist's 
fantasy.  The  urge  to  identification  and  expression  in  work  appears 
as  a  sublimation  of  the  bisexuality. 

The  frequency  of  neurosis  in  artists  may  be  explained  by  their 
heightened  bisexuality.  They  are  spared  neurosis  to  the  degree 
that  they  succeed  in  overcoming  their  conflicts  through  artistic 
sublimation. 


1  This  recalls  the  Ananke  of  Greek  fate  dramas  and  oracular  prophecies. 

2  Cf .  Thomas  Mann:   "Es  gibt  einen  Grad  dieser  Schmerzfahigkeit,  der 


Psychic  Trauma  and  Productive  Experience  305 

jedes  Erleben  zu  einem  Erleiden  macht."  (There  is  a  degree  of  this  capacity 
to  suffer  which  changes  all  experience  to  suffering.);  and  Richard  Wagner: 
"Ja  immer  im  Widerstreit  sein,  nie  zur  vollsten  Ruhe  seines  Innern  zu  gelan- 
gen,  immer  gehetzt,  gelockt  und  abgestossen  zu  sein.  .  .  ."  (Always  to  be 
torn  with  conflict,  never  to  achieve  complete  tranquility  within  oneself,  al- 
ways to  be  hunted,  always  attracted  and  repulsed.  .  .  .) 

3  Turgenev  on  Tolstoy:  "His  deepest,  most  terrible  secret  is  that  he  can 
love  no  one  but  himself."  Thomas  Mann:  "Liebe  zu  sich  selbst  ist  immer  der 
Anfang  eines  romanhaften  Lebens."  (Love  for  one's  self  is  always  the  be- 
ginning of  living  like  a  character  in  a  novel.)  Hebbel:  "Lieben  heisst,  in 
dem  andern  sich  selbst  erobern."  (To  love  means  to  win  one's  self  in  the 
other  person.) 


Otto  Rank 


Life  and  Creation 


What  would  live  in  song  immortally 
Must  in  life  first  perish.  .  .  . 

Schiller 


Before  we  trace  the  rise  and  significance  of  this 
"artist's  art,"  if  one  may  so  call  it,  as  it  grows  out  of  the  primitive 
art  ideologies,  it  is  perhaps  desirable  to  characterize  more  clearly 
its  essential  precondition:  namely,  the  creative  personality  itself. 
In  spite  of  all  "unconsciousness"  in  artistic  production  (a  point  to 
which  we  shall  return  later),  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  mod- 
ern individualist  type  of  artist  is  characterized  by  a  higher  degree 
of  consciousness  than  his  earlier  prototype:  the  consciousness  not 
only  of  his  creative  work  and  his  artist's  mission,  but  also  of  his 
own  personality  and  its  productiveness.  If,  as  it  should  seem,  the 
instinctive  will-to-art  (Riegl),  which  creates  abstract  forms,  has  in 
this  last  stage  of  artistic  development  become  a  conscious  will-to-art 
in  the  artist,  yet  the  actual  process  which  leads  a  man  to  become 
an  artist  is  usually  one  of  which  the  individual  is  not  conscious. 
In  other  words,  the  act  which  we  have  described  as  the  artist's  self- 
appointment  as  such  is  in  itself  a  spontaneous  expression  of  the 
306 


Life  and  Creation  307 

creative  impulse,  of  which  the  first  manifestation  is  simply  the 
forming  of  the  personality  itself.  Needless  to  say,  this  purely  in- 
ternal process  does  not  suffice  to  make  an  artist,  let  alone  a  genius, 
for,  as  Lange-Eichbaum  has  said,  only  the  community,  one's  con- 
temporaries, or  posterity  can  do  that.  Yet  the  self-labeling  and  self- 
training  of  an  artist  is  the  indispensable  basis  of  all  creative  work, 
and  without  it  general  recognition  could  never  arise.  The  artist's 
lifelong  work  on  his  own  productive  personality  appears  to  run 
through  definite  phases,  and  his  art  develops  in  proportion  to  the 
success  of  these  phases.  In  the  case  of  great  artists  the  process  is 
reflected  in  the  fact  that  they  had  either  a  principal  or  a  favorite 
work,  at  which  they  labored  all  their  fives.  (Goethe's  Faust,  Rodin's 
Porte  d'enfer,  Michelangelo's  Tomb  of  Julius,  and  so  on),  or  a 
favorite  theme,  which  they  never  relinquished  and  which  came  to 
be  a  distinct  representation  of  themselves  (as,  for  example,  Rem- 
brandt's self-portraits). 

On  the  other  hand,  this  process  of  the  artist's  self-forming  and 
self-training  is  closely  bound  up  with  his  life  and  his  experiences. 
In  studying  this  fundamental  problem  of  the  relation  between  living 
and  creating  in  an  artist,  we  are  therefore  again  aware  of  the  re- 
ciprocal influence  of  these  two  spheres.  All  the  psychography  and 
pathography  (with  its  primary  concern  to  explain  the  one  through 
the  other)  must  remain  unsatisfactory  as  long  as  the  creative  im- 
pulse, which  finds  expression  equally  in  experience  and  in  produc- 
tiveness, is  not  recognized  as  the  basis  of  both.  For,  as  I  already 
showed  in  my  essay  on  Schiller  (written  in  1905),  creativeness  lies 
equally  at  the  root  of  artistic  production  and  of  life  experience.1 
That  is  to  say,  lived  experience  can  only  be  understood  as  the  ex- 
pression of  volitional  creative  impulse,  and  in  this  the  two  spheres 
of  artistic  production  and  actual  experience  meet  and  overlap. 
Then,  too,  the  creative  impulse  itself  is  manifested  first  and  chiefly 
in  the  personality,  which,  being  thus  perpetually  made  over,  pro- 
duces artwork  and  experience  in  the  same  way.  To  draw  the  dis- 
tinction quite  drastically  between  this  new  standpoint  and  earlier 
ones,  one  might  put  it  that  the  artist  does  not  create  from  his  own 
experience  (as  Goethe,  for  instance,  so  definitely  appears  to  do), 
but  almost  in  spite  of  it.  For  the  creative  impulse  in  the  artist, 


308  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

springing  from  the  tendency  to  immortalize  himself,  is  so  power- 
ful that  he  is  always  seeking  to  protect  himself  against  the  transient 
experience,  which  eats  up  his  ego.  The  artist  takes  refuge,  with 
all  his  own  experience  only  from  the  life  of  actuality,  which  for 
him  spells  mortality  and  decay,  whereas  the  experience  to  which 
he  has  given  shape  imposes  itself  on  him  as  a  creation,  which  he 
in  fact  seeks  to  turn  into  a  work.  And  although  the  whole  artist 
psychology  may  seem  to  be  centered  on  the  "experience,"  this 
itself  can  be  explained  only  through  the  creative  impulse — which 
attempts  to  turn  ephemeral  life  into  personal  immortality.  In  crea- 
tion the  artist  tries  to  immortalize  his  mortal  life.  He  desires  to 
transform  death  into  life,  as  it  were,  though  actually  he  transforms 
life  into  death.  For  not  only  does  the  created  work  not  go  on  liv- 
ing; it  is,  in  a  sense,  dead;  both  as  regards  the  material,  which 
renders  it  almost  inorganic,  and  also  spiritually  and  psychologi- 
cally, in  that  it  no  longer  has  any  significance  for  its  creator,  once 
he  has  produced  it.  He  therefore  again  takes  refuge  in  life,  and 
again  forms  experiences,  which  for  their  part  represent  only  mor- 
tality— and  it  is  precisely  because  they  are  mortal  that  he  wishes 
to  immortalize  them  in  his  work. 

The  first  step  toward  understanding  this  mutual  relation  between 
life  and  work  in  the  artist  is  to  gain  a  clear  idea  of  the  psychologi- 
cal significance  of  the  two  phenomena.  This  is  only  possible,  how- 
ever, on  the  basis  of  a  constructive  psychology  of  personality, 
reaching  beyond  the  psychoanalytical  conception,  which  is  a  thera- 
peutic ideology  resting  on  the  biological  sex  impulse.  We  have 
come  to  see  that  another  factor  must  be  reckoned  with  besides  the 
original  biological  duality  of  impulse  and  inhibition  in  man;  this 
is  the  psychological  factor  par  excellence,  the  individual  will, 
which  manifests  itself  both  negatively  as  a  controlling  element,  and 
positively  as  the  urge  to  create.  This  creator  impulse  is  not,  there- 
fore, sexuality,  as  Freud  assumed,  but  expresses  the  antisexual 
tendency  in  human  beings,  which  we  may  describe  as  the  deliberate 
control  of  the  impulsive  fife.. To  put  it  more  precisely,  I  see  the 
creator  impulse  as  the  life  impulse  made  to  serve  the  individual 
will.  When  psychoanalysis  speaks  of  a  sublimated  sexual  impulse 
in  creative  art,  meaning  thereby  the  impulse  diverted  from  its 


Life  and  Creation  309 

purely  biological  function  and  directed  toward  higher  ends,  the 
question  as  to  what  diverted  and  what  directed  is  just  being  dis- 
missed with  an  allusion  to  repression.  But  repression  is  a  negative 
factor,  which  might  divert,  but  never  direct.  And  so  the  further 
question  remains  to  be  answered:  what,  originally  led  to  such  re- 
pression? As  we  know,  the  answer  to  this  question  was  outward 
deprivation;  but  that  again  suggests  a  merely  negative  check,  and 
I,  for  my  part,  am  of  the  opinion  that  (at  any  rate  from  a  certain 
definite  point  of  individual  development)  positively  willed  control 
takes  the  place  of  negative  inhibition,  and  that  it  is  the  masterful 
use  of  the  sexual  impulse  in  the  service  of  this  individual  will 
which  produces  the  sublimation. 

But  even  more  important  for  us  than  these  psychological  dis- 
tinctions is  the  basic  problem  of  why  this  inhibition  occurs  at  all, 
and  what  the  deliberate  control  of  the  vital  impulse  means  to  the 
individual.  Here,  again,  in  opposition  to  the  Freudian  conception 
of  an  external  threat  as  the  cause  of  the  inhibition,  I  suggest  that 
the  internal  threatening  of  the  individual  through  the  sexual  im- 
pulse of  the  species  is  at  the  root  of  all  conflict.  Side  by  side  with 
this  self-imposed  internal  check,  which  is  taken  to  be  what  pre- 
vents or  lessens  the  development  of  fear,  there  stands  the  will  as 
a  positive  factor.  The  various  controls  which  it  exercises  enable 
the  impulses  to  work  themselves  out  partially  without  the  indi- 
vidual's falling  completely  under  their  influence  or  having  to  check 
them  completely  by  too  drastic  repression.  Thus  in  the  fully  devel- 
oped individual  we  have  to  reckon  with  the  triad  Impulse-Fear- 
Will,  and  it  is  the  dynamic  relationship  between  these  factors  that 
determines  either  the  attitude  at  a  given  moment  or — when  equi- 
librium is  established — the  type.  Unsatisfactory  as  it  may  be  to 
express  these  dynamic  processes  in  terms  like  "type,"  it  remains 
the  only  method  of  carrying  an  intelligible  idea  of  them — always 
assuming  that  the  inevitable  simplification  in  this  is  not  lost  sight 
of.  If  we  compare  the  neurotic  with  the  productive  type,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  the  former  suffers  from  an  excessive  check  on  his  impul- 
sive life,  and,  according  to  whether  this  neurotic  checking  of  the 
instincts  is  effected  through  fear  or  through  will,  the  picture  pre- 
sented is  one  of  fear-neurosis  or  compulsion-neurosis.  With  the 


310  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

productive  type  the  will  dominates,  and  exercises  a  far-reaching 
control  over  (but  not  check  upon)  the  instincts,  which  are  pressed 
into  service  to  bring  about  creatively  a  social  relief  of  fear.  Finally, 
the  instincts  appear  relatively  unchecked  in  the  so-called  psycho- 
pathic subject,  in  whom  the  will  affirms  the  impulse  instead  of 
controlling  it.  In  this  type — to  which  the  criminal  belongs — we 
have,  contrary  to  appearances,  to  do  with  weak-willed  people, 
people  who  are  subjected  to  their  instinctive  impulses;  the  neurotic, 
on  the  other  hand,  is  generally  regarded  as  the  weak-willed  type, 
but  wrongly  so,  for  his  strong  will  is  exercised  upon  himself  and, 
indeed,  in  the  main  repressively  so  it  does  not  show  itself. 

And  here  we  reach  the  essential  point  of  difference  between  the 
productive  type  who  creates  and  the  thwarted  neurotic;  what  is 
more,  it  is  also  the  point  from  which  we  get  back  to  our  individual 
artist  type.  Both  are  distinguished  fundamentally  from  the  average 
type,  who  accepts  himself  as  he  is,  by  their  tendency  to  exercise 
their  volition  in  reshaping  themselves.  There  is,  however,  this  dif- 
ference: that  the  neurotic,  in  this  voluntary  remaking  of  his  ego, 
does  not  get  beyond  the  destructive  preliminary  work  and  is 
therefore  unable  to  detach  the  whole  creative  process  from  his 
own  person  and  transfer  it  to  an  ideological  abstraction.  The  pro- 
ductive artist  also  begins  (as  a  satisfactory  psychological  under- 
standing of  the  "will-to-style"  has  obliged  us  to  conclude)  with 
that  re-creation  of  himself  which  results  in  an  ideologically  con- 
structed ego;  this  ego  is  then  in  a  position  to  shift  the  creative 
will  power  from  his  own  person  to  ideological  representations  of 
that  person  and  thus  to  render  it  objective.  It  must  be  admitted 
that  this  process  is  in  a  measure  limited  to  within  the  individual 
himself,  and  that  not  only  in  its  constructive,  but  also  in  its  de- 
structive, aspects.  This  explains  why  hardly  any  productive  work  2 
gets  through  without  morbid  crises  of  a  "neurotic"  nature;  it  also 
explains  why  the  relation  between  productivity  and  illness  has 
so  far  been  unrecognized  or  misinterpreted,  as,  for  instance,  in 
Lombroso's  theory  of  the  insanity  of  genius.  Today  this  theory 
appears  to  us  as  the  precipitate  left  by  the  old  endeavors  to  explain 
genius  on  rational  psychological  lines,  which  treated  such  features 
as  depart  from  the  normal  as  "pathological."  However  much  in 


Life  and  Creation  311 

the  Italian  psychiatrist's  theory  is  an  exaggeration  of  the  material- 
ism of  nineteenth  century  science,  yet  undeniably  it  had  a  startling 
success,  and  this  I  attribute  to  the  fact  that  genius  itself,  in  its 
endeavor  to  differentiate  itself  from  the  average,  has  probably 
dramatized  its  pathological  features  also.  But  the  psychologist 
should  beware  of  deducing  from  this  apparent  factor  any  conclu- 
sions as  to  the  production  or  total  personality,  without  taking  into 
account  the  feeling  of  guilt  arising  from  the  creative  process  itself; 
for  this  is  capable  of  engendering  a  feeling  of  inferiority  as  a  sec- 
ondary result,  even  though  the  primary  result  may  be  a  conviction 
of  superiority.  As  I  have  said  elsewhere,  the  fundamental  problem 
is  individual  difference,  which  the  ego  is  inclined  to  interpret  as 
inferiority  unless  it  can  be  proved  by  achievement  to  be  superiority. 
Even  psychoanalysis  in  its  turn  did  not  succeed  in  surmounting 
Lombroso's  materialist  theory  of  insanity  or  supplementing  his  ra- 
tional explanation  by  a  spiritual  one.  All  it  did  was  to  substitute 
neurosis  for  insanity  (which  was  at  bottom  Lombroso's  own  mean- 
ing), thus  tending  either  to  identify  the  artist  with  the  neurotic — 
this  is  particularly  the  case  in  Sadger's  and  Stekel's  arguments — 
or  to  explain  the  artist  on  the  basis  of  an  inferiority  feeling.  (Alfred 
Adler  and  his  school  took  the  latter  view.)  3  It  is  characteristic  that 
during  the  last  few  years  the  psychiatrists  (such  as  Lange- 
Eichbaum,  Kretschmer,  Plaut)  who  have  contributed  most  toward 
clearing  up  the  position  of  genius  are  precisely  those  who  have 
managed  to  keep  clear  of  the  one-sidedness  of  these  psychoanalyti- 
cal schools.  And  if  these  researches  have  not  made  any  important 
contribution  to  the  understanding  of  the  process  of  creating,  psy- 
choanalysis, even  in  its  exaggerations,  must  at  least  be  credited 
with  having  discovered  that  experience,  in  so  far  as  it  is  the  an- 
tithesis of  production,  embraces  not  only  the  relations  of  love  and 
friendship,  but  also  those  morbid  reactions  of  a  psychic  and  bodily 
nature  which  are  known  as  "neurotic."  A  real  understanding  of 
these  neurotic  illnesses  could  not,  however,  be  satisfactorily  ob- 
tained as  long  as  we  tried  to  account  for  them  in  the  Freudian  sense 
by  thwarted  sexuality.  What  was  wanted  in  addition  was  a  grasp 
of  the  general  problem  of  fear  and  of  the  will  psychology  going 
therewith  which  should  allow  for  the  exercise  of  the  will,  both 


312  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

constructively  and  destructively,  affecting  the  ego  and  the  work 
equally.  Only  through  the  will-to-self-immortalization,  which  rises 
from  the  fear  of  life,  can  we  understand  the  interdependence  of 
production  and  suffering  and  the  definite  influence  of  this  on  posi- 
tive experience.  This  does  not  preclude  production  being  a  creative 
development  of  a  neurosis  in  objective  form;  and,  on  the  other 
hand,  a  neurotic  collapse  may  follow  as  a  reaction  after  produc- 
tion, owing  either  to  a  sort  of  exhaustion  or  to  a  sense  of  guilt 
arising  from  the  power  of  creative  masterfulness  as  something 
arrogant.4 

Reverting  now  from  the  production  process  to  experience,  it 
does  not  take  long  to  perceive  that  experience  is  the  expression 
of  the  impulse  ego,  production  of  the  will  ego.  The  external  diffi- 
culties in  an  artist's  experience  appear,  in  this  sense,  but  as  mani- 
festations of  this  internal  dualism  of  impulse  and  will,  and  in  the 
creative  type  it  is  the  latter  which  eventually  gains  the  upper  hand. 
Instinct  presses  in  the  direction  of  experience  and,  in  the  limit,  to 
consequent  exhaustion — in  fact,  death — while  will  drives  to  crea- 
tion and  thus  to  immortalization.  On  the  other  hand,  the  produc- 
tive type  also  pays  toll  to  life  by  his  work  and  to  death  by  bodily 
and  spiritual  sufferings  of  a  "neurotic"  order;  and  conversely  in 
many  cases  the  product  of  a  type  that  is  at  bottom  neurotic  may 
be  his  sole  propitiatory  offering  to  Life.  It  is  with  reason,  there- 
fore, that  from  the  beginning  two  basic  types  of  artist  have  been 
distinguished;  these  have  been  called  at  one  time  Dionysian  and 
Apollonian,  and  at  another  Classical  and  Romantic.5  In  terms  of 
our  present  dynamic  treatment,  the  one  approximates  to  the  psy- 
chopathic-impulsive type,  the  other  to  the  compulsion-neurotic 
volitional  type.  The  one  creates  more  from  fullness  of  powers  and 
sublimation,  the  other  more  from  exhaustion  and  compensation. 
The  work  of  the  one  is  entire  in  every  single  expression,  that  of 
the  other  is  partial  even  in  its  totality,  for  the  one  lives  itself  out, 
positively,  in  the  work,  while  the  other  pays  with  the  work — pays, 
not  to  society  (for  both  do  that),  but  to  life  itself,  from  which 
the  one  strives  to  win  freedom  by  self-willed  creation  whereas  for 
the  other  the  thing  created  is  the  expression  of  life  itself. 

This  duality  within  one  and  the  same  type  is  of  outstanding 


Life  and  Creation  313 

significance  in  the  psychology  of  the  productive  type  and  in  the 
work  it  produces.  For,  while  in  the  two  classes  of  neurotics  (frus- 
trated by  fear  and  by  the  will  respectively)  the  form  of  the  neurosis 
is  of  minor  matter  compared  with  the  fact  of  breaking  down  the 
inhibition  itself,  by  the  curative  process  of  dynamic  equilibration, 
in  the  productive  type  the  dynamism  itself  determines  not  only  the 
kind  but  the  form  of  his  art.  But  this  highly  complicated  problem 
is  only  mentioned  here  with  a  view  to  discussion  later,  and  we  will 
turn  from  the  two  artist  types,  which  Muller-Freienfels,  in  his 
Psychologie  der  Kunst  (Vol.  II,  pp.  100  et  seq.)  characterizes  as 
"expressive  artists"  and  "formative  artists,"  back  to  the  problem 
of  experience  which  is  common  to  both.  This  problem,  as  was 
pointed  out  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter,  only  becomes  intelli- 
gible through  the  conception  of  immortality.  There  appears  to  be  a 
common  impulse  in  all  creative  types  to  replace  collective  immor- 
tality— as  it  is  represented  biologically  in  sexual  propagation — by 
the  individual  immortality  of  deliberate  self-perpetuation.  This  is, 
however,  a  relatively  late  stage  of  development  in  the  conception 
of  immortality,  after  it  has  already  become  individualized — a  stage 
preceded  by  attempts  to  create  conceptions  of  collective  immortal- 
ity, of  which  the  most  important  is  religion.  I  have  tried  in  an- 
other connection  6  to  show  how,  within  religious  development  itself, 
the  idea  of  the  collective  soul  was  gradually  transformed  into  the 
idea  of  the  individual  god,  whose  heir  the  artist  later  became.  The 
initial  conception  of  an  individual  god,  subsequently  to  be  human- 
ized in  the  genius,  had  itself  been  helped  on,  and  perhaps  even  only 
rendered  possible,  by  art.  But  there  was  an  early  stage  of  artistic 
development,  which  was  at  the  same  time  the  climax  of  religious 
development,  in  which  the  individual  artist  played  no  part  because 
creative  power  was  still  the  prerogative  of  the  god. 

The  individual  artist,  whose  growth  from  the  creative  conception 
of  a  god  has  been  sketched  out,  no  longer  uses  the  collective 
ideology  of  religion  to  perpetuate  himself,  but  the  personal  religion 
of  genius,  which  is  the  precondition  of  any  productions  by  the  indi- 
vidual artist  type.  And  so  we  have  primitive  art,  the  expression 
of  a  collective  ideology,  perpetuated  by  abstraction  which  has 
found  its  religious  expression  in  the  idea  of  the  soul;  Classical  art, 


314  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

based  on  a  social  art  concept,  perpetuated  by  idealization,  which 
has  found  its  purest  expression  in  the  conception  of  beauty;  and, 
lastly,  modern  art,  based  on  the  concept  of  individual  genius  and 
perpetuated  by  concretization,  which  has  found  its  clearest  expres- 
sion in  the  personality  cult  of  the  artistic  individuality  itself.  Here, 
then,  in  contrast  to  the  primitive  stage,  it  is  the  artist  and  not  art 
that  matters,  and  naturally  therefore  the  experience  of  the  indi- 
vidual takes  on  the  significance  characteristic  of  the  romantic 
artist  type.7  Here,  obviously,  not  only  do  we  see  the  tendency — in 
our  view  the  basic  tendency — of  the  artist  type  to  put  oneself  and 
one's  life  into  one's  creative  work;  but  we  see  also  how,  in  the  eyes 
of  this  type,  the  problem  of  the  relation  between  experience  and 
creation 8  has  become  an  artistic  (aesthetic)  one;  whereas  it  is 
really  only  a  psychological  one,  which  discloses,  indeed,  important 
points  of  contact  with  art  (considered  as  an  ideological  concep- 
tion), but  differs  from  it  in  essence. 

For  the  romantic  dualism  of  life  and  production,  which  mani- 
fests itself  as  a  mixture  of  both  spheres,  has,  as  a  typical  conflict 
within  the  modern  individual,  nothing  to  do  with  art,  although 
obliged  like  art  to  express  itself  creatively.  This  romantic  dualism 
of  life  and  creation,  which  corresponds  to  our  psychological  dual- 
ism of  impulse  and  will,  is,  in  the  last  resort,  the  conflict  between 
collective  and  individual  immortality,  in  which  we  have  all  suffered 
so  acutely  since  the  decay  of  religion  and  the  decline  of  art.  The 
romantic  type,  flung  hither  and  thither  between  the  urge  to  per- 
petuate his  own  life  by  creating  and  the  compulsion  to  turn  himself 
and  life  into  a  work  of  art,  thus  appears  as  the  last  representa- 
tive of  an  art  ideology  which,  like  the  religious  collective  ideology, 
is  in  process  of  dying  out.  This  does  not  prevent  this  final  attempt 
to  rescue  the  semicollective  "religion  of  genius"  by  taking  it  into 
modern  individualism  from  bringing  forth  outstanding  and  per- 
manently valuable  works  of  art;  perhaps,  indeed  (as  Nietzsche 
himself,  the  ultra-Romantic,  recognized),  it  requires  that  it  should. 
On  the  other  hand,  it  is  just  the  appearance  of  this  decadent  type 
of  artist  which  marks  the  beginning  of  a  new  development  of 
personality,  since  the  tendency  to  self-perpetuation  is  in  the  end 
transferred  to  the  ego  from  which  it  originally  sprang. 


Life  and  Creation  315 

On  this  issue  the  romantic  becomes  identical,  as  a  psychologi- 
cal type,  with  the  neurotic — this  is  not  a  valuation,  but  merely  a 
statement  of  fact — and  for  that  matter  the  comparison  may  even 
be  reversed,  since  the  neurotic  likewise  has  creative,  or,  at  least, 
self-creative,  forces  at  command.  We  can  thus  understand  the 
experience  problem  of  the  individualist  type  of  artist  also  only  by 
studying  the  nature  of  neurosis,  just  as  the  therapy  of  the  neurotic 
requires  an  understanding  of  the  creative  type.9  Now,  the  neurotic 
represents  the  individual  who  aims  at  self-preservation  by  restrict- 
ing his  experience,  thus  showing  his  adherence  to  the  naive  faith 
in  immortality  of  the  primitive,  though  without  the  collective  soul 
ideology  which  supports  that  faith.  The  productivity  of  the  indi- 
vidual, or  of  the  thing  created,  replaces — for  the  artist  as  for  the 
community — the  originally  religious  ideology  by  a  social  value; 
that  is,  the  work  of  art  not  only  immortalizes  the  artist  ideologi- 
cally instead  of  personally,  but  also  secures  to  the  community  a 
future  life  in  the  collective  elements  of  the  work.  Even  at  this  last 
stage  of  individual  art  creativity  there  function  ideologies  (whether 
given  or  chosen)  of  an  aesthetic,  a  social,  or  a  psychological  nature 
as  collective  justifications  of  the  artist's  art,  in  which  the  personal 
factor  makes  itself  more  and  more  felt  and  appreciated. 

If  the  impulse  to  create  productively  is  explicable  only  by  the 
conception  of  immortality,  the  question  of  the  experience  problem 
of  the  neurotic  has  its  source  in  failure  of  the  impulse  to  perpetu- 
ate, which  results  in  fear,  but  is  also  probably  conditioned  by  it. 
There  is  (as  I  have  shown)  a  double  sort  of  fear:  on  the  one  hand 
the  fear  of  life  which  aims  at  avoidance  or  postponement  of  death, 
and  on  the  other  the  fear  of  death  which  underlies  the  desire  for 
immortality.  According  to  the  compromise  which  men  make  be- 
tween these  two  poles  of  fear,  and  the  predominance  of  one  or 
the  other  form,  there  will  be  various  dynamic  solutions  of  this 
conflict,  which  hardly  permit  of  description  by  type  labeling.  For, 
in  practice,  both  in  the  neurotic  and  in  the  productive  type — the 
freely  producing  and  the  thwarted — all  the  forces  are  brought  into 
play,  though  with  varying  accentuation  and  periodical  balancing  of 
values.  In  general,  a  strong  preponderance  of  the  fear  of  life  will 
lead  rather  to  neurotic  repression,  and  the  fear  of  death  to  produc- 


316  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tion — that  is,  perpetuation  in  the  work  produced.  But  the  fear  of 
life,  from  which  we  all  suffer,  conditions  the  problem  of  experience 
in  the  productive  type  as  in  other  people,  just  as  the  fear  of  death 
whips  up  the  neurotic's  constructive  powers.  The  individual  whose 
life  is  braked  is  led  thereby  to  flee  from  experience,  because  he 
fears  that  he  will  become  completely  absorbed  in  it — which  would 
mean  death — and  so  is  bound  up  with  fear.  Unlike  the  productive 
type,  who  strives  to  be  deathless  through  his  work,  the  neurotic 
does  not  seek  immortality  in  any  clearly  defined  sense,  but  in 
primitive  fashion  as  a  naive  saving  or  accumulation  of  actual  life. 
But  even  the  individualist  artist  type  must  sacrifice  both  life  and 
experience  to  make  art  out  of  them.  Thus  we  see  that  what  the 
artist  needs  for  true  creative  art  in  addition  to  his  technique  and  a 
definite  ideology  is  life  in  one  form  or  another;  and  the  two  artist 
types  differ  essentially  in  the  source  from  which  they  take  this  life 
that  is  so  essential  to  production.  The  Classical  type,  who  is  possi- 
bly poorer  within,  but  nearer  to  life,  and  himself  more  vital,  takes 
it  from  without:  that  is,  he  creates  immortal  work  from  mortal 
life  without  necessarily  having  first  transformed  it  into  personal 
experience  as  is  the  case  with  the  Romantic.  For,  to  the  Romantic, 
experience  of  his  own  appears  to  be  an  essential  preliminary  to 
productivity,  although  he  does  not  use  this  experience  for  the  en- 
richment of  his  own  personality,  but  to  economize  the  personal 
experiences,  the  burden  of  which  he  would  fain  escape.  Thus  the 
one  artist  type  constantly  makes  use  of  life  other  than  his  own — 
in  fact,  nature — for  the  purpose  of  creating,  while  the  other  can 
create  only  by  perpetually  sacrificing  his  own  life.  This  essential 
difference  of  attitude  to  the  fundamental  problem  of  life  throws 
a  psychological  light  on  the  contrast  in  styles  of  various  periods 
in  art.  Whatever  aesthetic  designation  may  be  applied  to  this  con- 
trast, from  the  spiritual  point  of  view  the  work  of  the  Classicist, 
more  or  less  naturalistic,  artist  is  essentially  partial,  and  the  work 
of  the  Romantic,  produced  from  within,  total.10  This  totality  type 
spends  itself  perpetually  in  creative  work  without  absorbing  very 
much  of  life,  while  the  partial  type  has  continually  to  absorb  life 
so  that  he  may  throw  it  off  again  in  his  work.  It  is  an  egoistical 
artist  type  of  this  order  that  Ibsen  has  described  in  so  masterly  a 


Life  and  Creation  317 

fashion.  He  needs,  as  it  were,  for  each  work  that  he  builds,  a  sacri- 
fice which  is  buried  alive  to  ensure  a  permanent  existence  to  the 
structure,  but  also  to  save  the  artist  from  having  to  give  himself. 
The  frequent  occasions  when  a  great  work  of  art  has  been  created 
in  the  reaction  following  upon  the  death  of  a  close  relation  seem 
to  me  to  realize  those  favorable  cases  for  this  type  of  artist  in 
which  he  can  dispense  with  the  killing  of  the  building's  victim  be- 
cause that  victim  has  died  a  natural  death  and  has  subsequently, 
to  all  appearances,  had  a  monument  piously  erected  to  him.11 

The  mistake  in  all  modern  psychological  biography  lies  in  its 
attempt  to  "explain"  the  artist's  work  by  his  experience,  whereas 
creation  can  be  made  understandable  only  through  the  inner  dyna- 
mism and  its  central  problems.  Then,  too,  the  real  artist  regards 
his  work  as  more  important  than  the  whole  of  life  and  experience, 
which  are  but  a  means  to  production — almost,  indeed,  a  by-product 
of  it.  This  refers,  however,  to  the  Classical  type  only,  for  to  the 
Romantic  type  his  personal  ego  and  his  experience  are  more  impor- 
tant than,  or  as  important  as,  his  work;  sometimes,  indeed,  produc- 
tion may  be  simply  a  means  to  life,  just  as  to  the  other  type  experi- 
ence is  but  a  means  to  production.  This  is  why  Romantic  art  is  far 
more  subjective,  far  more  closely  bound  up  with  experience,  than 
Classical,  which  is  more  objective  and  linked  to  life.  In  no  case, 
however,  will  the  individual  become  an  artist  through  any  one  ex- 
perience, least  of  all  through  the  experiences  of  childhood  (which 
seem  pretty  universal) .  The  becoming  of  the  artist  has  a  particular 
genesis,  one  of  the  manifestations  of  which  may  be  some  special 
experience.  For  the  artistic  impulse  to  create  is  a  dynamic  factor 
apart  from  the  content  of  experience,  a  will  problem  which  the 
artist  solves  in  a  particular  way.  That  is,  he  is  capable  of  forming 
the  given  art  ideology — whether  of  the  collective  kind  (style)  or 
the  personal  (genius  idea) — into  the  substance  of  his  creative  will. 
He  employs,  so  to  say,  personal  will  power  to  give  form  or  life 
to  an  ideology,  which  must  have  not  only  social  qualities  like  other 
ideologies,  but  purely  artistic  ones,  which  will  be  more  closely 
specified  from  the  point  of  view  of  aesthetics. 

The  subjective  character  of  modern  art,  which  is  based  on  the 
ideology  of  a  personal  type  of  artist,  imposes  also  a  special  outlook 


318  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  the  artist  toward  his  own  creative  power  and  his  work.  The 
more  production  is  an  essential  means  to  life  (and  not  just  a 
particular  ideological  expression  of  it),  the  more  will  the  work 
itself  be  required  to  justify  the  personality — instead  of  expressing 
it — and  the  more  will  this  subjective  artist  type  need  individuals 
to  justify  his  production.  From  this  point  of  view  as  well  as  others 
it  is  easy  to  see  that  experience,  in  its  particular  form  of  love 
experience,  takes  on  a  peculiar  significance  for  the  Romantic  artist, 
whose  art  is  based  on  the  personality  cult  of  the  genius  concept. 
The  primitive  artist  type  finds  his  justification  in  the  work  itself; 
the  Classical  justifies  the  work  by  his  life,  but  the  Romantic  must 
justify  both  life  and  experience  by  his  work  and,  further,  must  have 
a  witness  of  his  life  to  justify  his  production.  The  fundamental 
problem  of  the  Romantic  artist  is  thus  the  self-justification  of  the 
individual  raised  above  the  crowd,  while  the  Classical  artist  type 
expresses  himself  in  his  work — which  receives  a  social  justification 
by  way  of  general  recognition.  But  the  Romantic  needs,  further, 
whether  as  contrast  or  as  supplement  to  this  social  approval,  a 
personal  approbation  of  his  own,  because  his  feeling  of  the  guilt 
of  creation  can  no  longer  be  allayed  by  a  collective  ideology  any 
more  than  he  can  work  effectively  in  the  service  of  such  an  ideol- 
ogy. In  this  sense  his  artistic  work  is  rather  a  forcible  liberation 
from  inward  pressure  than  the  voluntary  expression  of  a  funda- 
mentally strong  personality  that  is  capable  of  paralyzing  the  subjec- 
tive element  to  a  great  extent  by  making  collective  symbolism  his 
own.  The  artist  who  approximates  more  nearly  to  the  Classical 
type  excels  less,  therefore,  in  the  creating  of  new  forms  than  in 
perfecting  them.  Further,  he  will  make  much  more  frequent  use  of 
old  traditional  material,  full  of  a  powerful  collective  resonance,  as 
the  content  of  his  work,  while  the  Romantic  seeks  new  forms  and 
contents  in  order  to  be  able  to  express  his  personal  self  more  com- 
pletely. 

Thus,  as  the  artist  type  becomes  more  and  more  individualized, 
he  appears  on  the  one  hand  to  need  a  more  individual  ideology — 
the  genius  concept — for  his  art,  while  on  the  other  his  work  is 
more  subjective  and  more  personal,  until  finally  he  requires  for 
the  justification  of  his  production  an  individual  "public"  also:  a 


Life  and  Creation  319 

single  person  for  whom  ostensibly  he  creates.  This  goes  so  far  in  a 
certain  type  of  artist,  which  we  call  the  Romantic,  that  actual  pro- 
duction is  possible  only  with  the  aid  of  a  concrete  Muse  through 
whom  or  for  whom  the  work  is  produced.  The  "experience"  which 
arises  in  this  manner  is  not,  like  other  sorts  of  experience,  an 
external  phenomenon  set  over  against  creative  work,  but  is  a  part 
of  it  and  even  identical  with  it,  always  providing  that  the  Muse — 
in  practice,  usually  a  real  woman — is  suited  to  this  role  or  at  least 
makes  no  objection  to  it,  and  so  long  as  the  artist  can  maintain 
such  a  relation  on  the  ideological  plane  without  confusing  it  with 
real  life.  It  is  this  case,  in  which  the  conflict  between  life  and  crea- 
tion reaches  extreme  intensity,  that  we  so  often  see  actualized  in 
the  modern  type  of  artist.  Here  the  woman  is  expected  to  be  Muse 
and  mistress  at  once,  which  means  that  she  must  justify  equally  the 
artistic  ego,  with  its  creativeness,  and  the  real  self,  with  its  life;  and 
this  she  seldom  (and  in  any  case  only  temporarily)  succeeds  in 
doing.  We  see  the  artist  of  this  type  working  off  on  the  woman  his 
inward  struggle  between  life  and  production  or,  psychologically 
speaking,  between  impulse  and  will.  It  is  a  tragic  fate  that  he  shares 
with  the  neurotic,  who  suffers  from  the  same  inner  conflict.  An- 
other way  out  of  the  struggle  is  to  divide  its  elements  between  two 
persons,  of  whom  one  belongs  to  the  ideological  creative  sphere, 
and  the  other  to  the  sphere  of  actual  life.  But  this  solution  also 
presents  difficulties  of  a  psychological  as  well  as  a  social  order, 
because  this  type  of  artist  has  a  fundamental  craving  for  totality, 
in  life  as  in  work,  and  the  inner  conflict,  though  it  may  be  tem- 
porarily eased  by  being  objectivized  in  such  an  outward  division  of 
roles,  is  as  a  whole  only  intensified  thereby. 

The  same  applies  to  another  solution  of  this  ego  conflict  which 
the  artist  has  in  common  with  the  neurotic,  and  one  which  shows 
more  clearly  even  than  the  complicated  love  conflict  that  it  is  at 
bottom  a  question  not  of  sexual  but  of  creative  problems.  From 
the  study  of  a  certain  class  of  neurotic  we  have  found  that  in  many 
cases  of  apparent  homosexual  conflicts  it  is  less  a  sexual  perver- 
sion than  an  ego  problem  that  underlies  them,  a  problem  with 
which  the  individual  can  only  deal  by  personifying  a  portion  of 
his  own  ego  in  another  individual.  The  same  applies,  it  is  true,  to 


320  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

heterosexual  love  relations,  from  which  the  homosexual  differs  only 
in  that  the  selfward  part  of  this  relation  is  stronger,  or  at  any 
rate  more  distinct.  If  the  poet  values  his  Muse  the  more  highly  in 
proportion  as  it  can  be  identified  with  his  artistic  personality  and 
its  ideology,  then  self-evidently  he  will  find  his  truest  ideal  in  an 
even  greater  degree  in  his  own  sex,  which  is  in  any  case  physically 
and  intellectually  closer  to  him.  Paradoxical  as  it  may  sound,  the 
apparently  homosexual  tendencies  or  actual  relationships  of  cer- 
tain artists  fulfill  the  craving  for  a  Muse  which  will  stimulate  and 
justify  creative  work  in  a  higher  degree  than  (for  a  man)  a  woman 
can  do.  It  is  only  as  the  result  of  the  artist's  urge  for  completion, 
and  his  desire  to  find  everything  united  in  one  person,  that  it  is 
mostly  a  woman  that  is  taken  as,  or  made  into,  a  Muse,  although 
instances  of  homosexual  relations  between  artists  are  by  no  means 
rare. 

Greece,  in  particular,  with  its  high  development  of  purely  in- 
tellectual ideologies  in  art  and  philosophy,  was  of  course  the  classi- 
cal country  of  boy  love;  and  there  is  nothing  contradictory  in  this, 
particularly  if  we  understand  the  boy  friendship  in  the  Greek 
spirit.12  For  it  was  in  the  main,  or  at  least  collaterally,  a  high  spir- 
itual relation  which  had  as  its  basis  and  object  a  "pedagogic"  train- 
ing for  the  boy.  The  master — whether  philosopher  or  sculptor,  or, 
in  other  words,  artist  in  living  or  in  shaping — was  not  content  to 
teach  his  pupil  or  protege  his  doctrines  or  his  knowledge:  he  had 
the  true  artistic  impulse  to  transform  him  into  his  own  image,  to 
create.  And  this,  by  the  way,  was  the  form  of  personal  immortality 
characteristic  of  Greek  culture  at  its  height,  which  not  only  found 
expression  in  works  of  art  or  spiritual  teaching,  but  sought  fulfill- 
ment in  a  personal,  concrete  successor.  This  successor  was  no 
longer  (or  not  yet,  if  we  think  of  Rome)  the  physical  son,  but  the 
like-minded  pupil.  This  is  why  the  spiritual  relation  of  pupil-and- 
master — which  Christianity  was  to  set  up  again  as  the  center  of  its 
doctrine  of  life — has  remained  a  more  important  thing  to  the  crea- 
tive artist  than  the  juridical  father- and-son  relation  which  psycho- 
analysis seeks  to  regard  as  fundamental,  whereas  it  is  spiritually  of 
a  secondary  order.  And  in  Greece,  therefore,  the  state  of  being 
a  pupil  did  not  mean  the  mere  acquiring  of  a  certain  discipline 


Life  and  Creation  321 

and  the  mastery  of  a  certain  material  knowledge,  as  in  the  civiliza- 
tion of  father  right,  but  the  forming  of  a  personality — which  be- 
gins by  identification  with  the  master  and  is  then  "artistically" 
developed  and  perfected  on  the  pupil's  own  lines.  In  this  sense  the 
Greek  was  creative  before  he  arrived  at  creating  works  of  art,  or, 
indeed,  without  ever  shaping  anything  but  himself  and  his  pupil. 
Socrates  is  the  best  known  of  many  examples  of  this. 

This  educative  ideology  of  the  artistic  Greek  nation,  which  is 
manifested  also  in  boy  love  in  all  its  aspects,  brings  up  the  ques- 
tion: did  that  Greek  art,  which  may  seem  to  us  today  the  main 
achievement  of  the  Greek  civilization,  perhaps  represent  to  the 
Greek  a  mere  by-product  thereof,  an  auxiliary,  in  fact,  to  the  edu- 
cation of  the  men,  who  as  the  real  vessels  of  the  culture  were  thus 
enabled  inter  alia  to  practice  art  for  its  own  sake?  This  brings  us 
to  another  question:  was  not  every  great  art,  whether  of  primitive 
or  cultivated  peoples,  bound  up  with  some  such  cultured  task, 
which  lies  beyond  the  bounds  of  aesthetics,  but  also  beyond  all 
individual  artist  psychology?  In  any  case,  there  are  numerous  liter- 
ary proofs  of  the  high  degree  to  which  the  Greeks  were  conscious 
of  this  national  importance  of  their  art.  They  said  that  men  should 
learn  from  works  of  art  and  try  themselves  to  become  as  beautiful 
and  perfect  as  the  statues  around  them.  This  gives  us  an  insight 
into  the  characteristic  way  in  which  the  Greeks  extended  their  own 
creation  of  individual  personalities  to  include  a  whole  nation,  which 
was  not  content  to  produce  works  of  art  for  their  own  sake  but 
strove  to  create  an  artistic  human  type  who  would  also  be  able 
to  produce  fine  works  of  art.  Seen  in  this  light,  boy  love,  which,; 
as  Plato  tells  us,  aimed  perpetually  at  the  improvement  and  per- 
fection of  the  beloved  youth,  appears  definitely  as  the  Classical 
counterpart  of  the  primitive  body  art  on  a  spiritualized  plane. 
In  the  primitive  stage  it  is  a  matter  of  physical  self-enhancement; 
in  the  civilized  stage,  a  spiritual  perfecting  in  the  other  person, 
who  becomes  transferred  into  the  worthy  successor  of  oneself 
here  on  earth;  and  that,  not  on  the  basis  of  the  biological  procrea- 
tion of  one's  body,  but  in  the  sense  of  the  spiritual  immortality 
symbolism  in  the  pupil,  the  younger. 

Christianity  took  over  this  ideal  of  personal  character  forma- 


322  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tion  in  the  symbol  of  the  Exemplar  Master,  but,  in  proportion 
as  it  became  a  world-wide  religion  of  the  masses,  it  was  unable  to 
carry  it  out  at  the  personal  level.  The  collective  immortality  dogma, 
which  became  symbolized  in  Christ,  relieved  the  individual  of  this 
task  of  personal  self -creation;  Christ  instead  was  no  longer  a 
model,  but  became  a  victim  who  took  upon  himself  voluntarily 
the  development  of  everyone's  personality.  Correspondingly,  Chris- 
tian art  remained  stationary  in  the  abstract  collective  style  of  the 
religious  ideology,  until  in  the  Renaissance  it  was  freed  by  the 
emergence  of  a  new  type  of  personality.  It  was  not  mere  imitation 
of  Classical  Greece,  but  the  expression  of  a  similar  ideology  of 
personality  that  led  the  artists  of  the  Renaissance  to  try  to  re- 
experience  the  Greek  ideal  of  boy  love.  We  see,  for  instance,  two 
of  the  really  great  artists,  of  entirely  different  social  environment, 
expressing  the  identical  spiritual  ideology,  with  such  far-reaching 
similarity  that  the  notion  that  the  mere  accident  of  a  personal 
experience  produced  both  cases  must  be  dismissed.  They  both, 
Michelangelo  and  Shakspeare,  found  almost  identical  words  in 
their  famous  sonnets  for  the  noble  love  which  each  of  them  felt 
for  a  beautiful  youth  who  was  his  friend.  Michelangelo's  case 
is  the  simpler  in  that  we  at  least  think  we  know  to  whom  his 
sonnets  were  addressed,  although  it  might  equally  well  be  the 
short-lived  Ceccino  Bracchi  or  Tommaso  de  Cavalieri,  the  object 
of  a  lifelong  adoration.  It  is  not  even  clear  in  some  of  his  later 
sonnets  whether  his  "idol"  refers  to  his  young  friend  or  to  Vittoria 
Colonna,  whose  platonic  friendship  came  later.  The  content  of 
Shakspeare's  sonnets  is  a  far  more  complicated  matter.  His  ideal 
has  been  sought  among  the  widely  differing  persons  among  the 
aristocracy  of  his  day.  His  adoring  friendship  for  the  youth  in 
question  was  not,  as  with  Michelangelo,  followed  by  a  soothing 
maternal  friendship,  but  was  broken  in  upon  by  a  young  and 
beautiful  woman.  Here,  as  in  his  dramas  also,  woman  figures  as 
an  evil,  disturbing  daemon  that  the  Elizabethan  dramatist  never  suc- 
ceeded in  transforming  into  a  helpful  Muse,  but  always  felt  to  be 
an  obstacle  to  creative  work;  whereas  in  his  young  friend  he  found 
the  ideal  which  spurred  him  on  and  aided  him.  But  whatever  the 
decision  reached  by  zealous  scholars  concerning  the  identity  of  the 


Life  and  Creation  323 

person  addressed  in  his  immortal  sonnets,  this  "biographical"  fact 
seems  to  me  unimportant  as  compared  with  the  psychological  evi- 
dence that  this  glorification  of  a  friend  is,  fundamentally,  self- 
glorification  just  as  was  the  Greek  boy-love.  In  this  sense,  not  only 
are  the  sonnets  in  fact  self-dedicated — as  is  creative  work  of  every 
description — but  they  reveal  that  peculiar  attitude  of  the  creative 
instinct  toward  the  creative  ego  which  seeks  to  glorify  it  by  artistic 
idealization  and  at  the  same  time  to  overcome  its  mortality  by 
eternalizing  it  in  art. 

The  fact  that  an  idealized  self-glorification  in  the  person  of 
another  can  take  on  physical  forms,  as  in  the  Greek  boy-love,  has 
actually  nothing  to  do  with  the  sex  of  the  beloved,  but  is  concerned 
only  with  the  struggle  to  develop  a  personality  and  the  impulse  to 
create  which  arises  from  it.  This  impulse  is  at  bottom  directed  to 
the  creator's  own  rebirth  in  the  closest  possible  likeness,  which  is 
naturally  more  readily  found  in  his  own  sex;  the  other  sex  is  felt 
to  be  biologically  a  disturbing  element  except  where  it  can  be 
idealized  as  a  Muse.  But  the  likeness  to  himself  will  not  only  be 
found  in  the  bodily  form  of  his  own  sex,  but  also  be  built  up  with 
regard  to  the  spiritual  affinity,  and  in  this  regard  the  youthfulness 
of  the  beloved  stands  for  the  bodily  symbol  of  immortality.  In  this 
manner  does  the  mature  man,  whose  impulse  to  perpetuate  himself 
drives  him  away  from  the  biological  sex  life,  live  his  own  life  over 
again  in  his  youthful  love;  not  only  seeking  to  transform  him  into 
his  intellectual  counterpart,  but  making  him  his  spiritual  ideal,  the 
symbol  of  his  vanishing  youth.  The  sonnets  of  both  the  Renaissance 
artists  are  full  of  such  laments  over  the  vanishing  youth  of  the 
beloved,  whose  glorious  picture  it  is  the  duty  of  the  poem  to  pre- 
serve to  all  eternity.  Just  as  we  know,  from  the  psychology  of  the 
creative  genius,  that  his  impulse  to  create  arises  from  precisely 
this  tendency  to  immortalize  himself  in  his  work,  so  we  can  be  in 
no  doubt  as  to  whose  transitoriness  it  is  that  the  poet  deplores 
with  almost  monotonous  reiteration.  In  these  sonnets  there  is  so 
complete  a  revelation  of  the  meaning  and  content  of  the  whole 
output  of  their  authors,  and  indeed  of  the  nature  of  the  artist's 
creative  instinct  in  general,  that  their  high  valuation  and,  no  less, 
their  intriguing  ambiguity,  become  comprehensible.  Yet  they  are 


324  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

easy  to  understand  if  we  regard  them  as  the  subjective  completion 
of  their  author's  objective  creations,  for  in  their  naive  self-projec- 
tion they  admit  their  own  transitoriness  to  be  the  reason  for  their 
own  perpetuation  in  poetry. 

From  this  point  of  view,  then,  the  biographical  presentation, 
even  when  it  can  be  done  with  certainty,  seems  to  us  inessential. 
We  are  by  no  means  cast  down  when  this  method  fails,  for  we 
can  understand  that  beyond  a  certain  point  failure  is  unavoid- 
able, since  the  creation  of  a  work  of  art  cannot  be  explained  even 
by  the  reconstruction  of  an  inspirer.  Thus  the  factual  and  concrete 
biography  of  Michelangelo  or  Shakspeare  does  not  enable  us  to 
understand  their  work  the  better;  rather  we  are  left  more  amazed 
than  before  at  their  coincidence.  Vasari,  anyhow,  declares  that  the 
one  and  only  portrait  by  Michelangelo  which  was  true  to  nature 
was  that  of  his  young  friend  Tommaso  Cavalieri,  "for  he  detested 
copying  the  actual  appearance  of  anyone  who  was  not  completely 
beautiful."  The  same  ideal  fashion  in  which  he  immortalizes  the 
beloved  in  poetry  corresponds  exactly  with  Shakspeare's  attitude 
to  his  ideal.  For  the  English  poet  also  has  the  conscious  intention 
of  immortalizing  his  friend's  beauty  at  least  in  his  verse,  if  time 
is  bound  to  destroy  his  bodiliness.  This  is  the  constantly  reiterated 
theme  in  the  Shakspeare  sonnets,  and  Michelangelo  had  the  same 
feeling  in  the  presence  of  the  beloved  youth:  that  his  beauty  should 
be  incorporated  into  eternity.  Not  only  is  it  evident  from  this  self- 
immortalization  in  the  work  that  the  matter  is  at  bottom  one  of  self- 
immortalization  expressed  in  another  (in  the  ideal)  but  both  these 
artists  have  expressed  with  great  clearness,  and  to  the  point  of 
monotony,  the  idea  of  oneness  with  the  friend.  Shakspeare  says: 

What  can  mine  own  praise  to  mine  own  self  bring? 
And  what  is't  but  mine  own  when  I  praise  thee? 

(Sonnet  XXXIX);  and  Michelangelo  in  one  of  his  sonnets  not 
only  says  that  a  lover  "transforms  himself"  into  the  beloved,  but 
in  a  letter  presses  this  transformation  of  the  beloved  into  his  own 
image,  so  far  as  to  call  his  friend  Tommaso  "a  genius  who  is  a 
stranger  in  this  world."  13 

This  psychological  solution  of  the  much-disputed  sonnet  prob- 


Life  and  Creation  325 

lem  shows  how  experience,  and  still  more  the  whole  attitude  to- 
ward life,  grows  out  of  the  struggle  to  create  and  so  reduces  the 
problem  of  experience  to  the  problem  of  creativity.  For  the  extent 
to  which  the  the  artist  succeeds  in  actualizing  his  love  ideal,  in  the 
service  of  his  own  self-immortalization,  is  of  minor  importance 
compared  with  the  basic  attitude  that  his  work  discloses — namely, 
one  originating  in  dissatisfaction  with  artistic  creation  and  so  urg- 
ing the  creator  in  some  form  or  other  toward  life — that  is,  toward 
the  actual  experiencing  of  his  fundamental  self.  In  any  case  his 
impulse  to  form  man  in  his  own  image  or  in  the  image  of  his  ideal 
inevitably  brings  him  into  conflict  with  real  life  and  its  conditions. 
These  conditions  are  not  artistic,  but  social,  conditions,  in  which 
one  individual  has  to  respect  another  and  is  not  permitted  to  re- 
make him.  Now,  a  certain  measure  of  conflict  is,  of  course,  necessary 
to  creative  work,  and  this  conflict  is,  in  fact,  one  of  the  fields  in 
which  an  artist  displays  his  greatness,  or,  psychologically  speak- 
ing, the  strength  of  his  creative  will  power.  By  means  of  it  he  is 
able  to  work  off  a  certain  measure  of  his  inner  conflict  in  his  art 
without  entirely  sacrificing  the  realities  of  life  or  coming  into 
factual  conflict  with  them.  In  any  case,  the  destructive  results  of 
this  ensemble  of  realities  upon  the  neurotic,  as  we  are  able  to 
observe  them  in  his  neurosis,  show  that  what  distinguishes  him 
from  the  artist  is  that  the  latter  constructively  applies  his  will 
power  in  the  service  of  ideological  creation.  A  certain  type  of 
artist,  for  whom  Goethe  may  stand  as  the  model,  will  learn  to  deal 
with  his  experiences  and  conflicts  economically  and  in  the  end 
wisely,  while  another  type  exhausts  his  strength  in  chasing  after 
stimulating  experiences  so  that  his  conflict  does  not  come  out  in 
production.  For  the  artist  himself  the  fact  that  he  creates  is  more 
immediately  important  than  what  he  produces,  although  we  are 
inclined  to  make  his  classification  as  a  particular  type  depend 
upon  the  result,  his  artwork.  Here  again  we  find  ourselves  at  a 
point  where  art  as  the  result  of  production  must  be  sharply  differ- 
entiated from  the  artist  as  a  creative  individual.  There  is,  in  fact, 
no  norm  for  the  artist  as  a  type,  although  we  are  constantly 
tempted  to  set  up  more  or  less  precisely  formulated  norms  both 
for  art  and  for  the  individual  work  of  art.  Production  is  a  vital 


326  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

process  which  happens  within  the  individual  and  is  independent 
at  the  outset  from  the  ideology  manifested  in  the  created  work. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  work  can  show  an  equal  independence 
toward  the  artist  who  has  created  it,  and  can  in  favorable  in- 
stances be  compared  with  other  works  within  the  categories  of 
art;  but  it  can  never  be  compared  with  its  author  or  with  the  artist 
as  a  psychological  type.  Between  the  two — artist  and  art — there 
stands  Life,  now  dividing,  now  uniting,  now  checking,  now  pro- 
moting. 

Here  we  must  return  once  more  to  the  relation  of  the  artist 
to  woman  (or  to  the  opposite  sex).  In  the  life  of  many  an  artist 
this  is  a  disturbing  factor,  one  of  the  deepest  sources  of  conflict, 
indeed,  when  it  tends  to  force  or  beguile  him  into  closer  touch 
with  life  than  is  necessary  or  even  advantageous  to  his  produc- 
tion. To  make  a  woman  his  Muse,  or  to  name  her  as  such,  there- 
fore, often  amounts  to  transforming  a  hindrance  into  a  helper — 
a  compromise  which  is  usually  in  the  interest  of  productiveness, 
but  renders  no  service  to  life.  Here,  again,  everything  naturally 
depends  on  the  artist's  dynamic  type  and  his  specific  conflict  over 
life  and  production.  There  are  artists  for  whom  even  a  feminine 
Muse  represents  nothing  but  a  potential  homosexual  relation;  for 
they  see  in  her  not  so  much  the  woman  as  a  comrade  of  like 
outlook  and  like  aims,  who  could  equally  well — and  possibly  bet- 
ter— be  replaced  by  a  male  friendship.  On  the  other  hand,  there 
is  an  artist  type  which  is  totally  unable  to  produce  at  all  without 
the  biological  complement  of  the  other  sex  and  indeed  depends 
directly  on  the  sexual  life  for  its  stimulus.  For  the  type  which  is 
creative  in  and  by  means  of  sexual  abstinence  has  its  opposite  in 
another  type  which,  strange  to  say,  is  not  only  not  exhausted  by 
the  sexual  act  but  is  definitely  stimulated  to  create  thereby.  Schulte- 
Vaerting  has  described  this  type  as  the  "sexual  superman,"  but  it 
seems  to  me  rather  that  here  too  some  hidden  mechanism  of  flee- 
ing from  life  is  involved,  which  impels  the  artist  from  biological 
mortality  to  individual  immortality  in  production  after  he  has  paid 
his  tribute  to  sexuality. 

This  leads  us  to  the  profoundest  source  of  the  artistic  impulse 
to  create,  which  I  can  only  satisfactorily  explain  to  myself  as  the 


Life  and  Creation  327 

struggle  of  the  individual  against  an  inherent  striving  after  totality, 
which  forces  him  equally  in  the  direction  of  a  complete  surrender 
to  life  and  a  complete  giving  of  himself  in  production.  He  has  to 
save  himself  from  this  totality  by  fleeing,  now  from  the  Scylla  of 
life,  now  from  the  Charybdis  of  creation,  and  his  escape  is  nat- 
urally accomplished  only  at  the  cost  of  continual  conflict,  both 
between  these  two  spheres  and  within  each  of  them  separately. 
How  this  conflict  and  the  triumph  over  it  is  manifested  in  creative 
working  I  seek  to  show  elsewhere.  For  the  moment  we  are  dealing 
only  with  manifestations  and  attempted  solutions  within  the  sphere 
of  life,  irrespective  of  whether  these  are  concerned  with  persons 
of  the  same  or  of  the  opposite  sex.  In  every  case  the  artist's  rela- 
tion to  woman  has  more  of  an  ideological  than  of  a  sexual  signifi- 
cance, as  Emil  Lenk  has  demonstrated  in  a  study  on  creative  per- 
sonalities (Das  Liebesleben  des  Genies,  1926).  Usually,  however, 
he  needs  two  women,  or  several,  for  the  different  parts  of  his 
conflict,  and  accordingly  he  falls  into  psychological  dilemmas,  even 
if  he  evades  the  social  difficulties.  He  undoubtedly  loves  both 
these  persons  in  different  ways,  but  is  usually  not  clear  as  to  the 
part  they  play,  even  if — as  would  appear  to  be  the  rule — he  does 
not  actually  confuse  them  one  with  the  other.  Because  the  Muse 
means  more  to  him  artistically,  he  thinks  he  loves  her  the  more. 
This  is  seldom  the  case  in  fact,  and  moreover  it  is  psychologically 
impossible.  For  the  other  woman,  whom,  from  purely  human  or 
other  motives,  he  perhaps  loves  more,  he  often  enough  cannot 
set  up  as  his  Muse  for  this  very  reason:  that  she  would  thereby 
become  in  a  sense  de-feminized  and,  as  it  were,  made  into  an 
object  (in  the  egocentric  sense)  of  friendship.  To  the  Muse  for 
whom  he  creates  (or  thinks  he  creates),  the  artist  seldom  gives 
himself;  he  pays  with  his  work,  and  this  the  truly  womanly  woman 
often  refuses  to  accept.  But  if  his  relation  takes  a  homosexual 
form,  this  giving  is  still  more  obviously  a  giving  to  himself;  that 
is,  the  artistic  form  of  giving  through  production  instead  of  sur- 
rendering the  personal  ego. 

True,  from  the  standpoint  of  the  ego,  the  homosexual  relation 
is  an  idealizing  of  oneself  in  the  person  of  another,  but  at  the 
same  time  it  is  felt  as  a  humiliation;  and  this  is  not  so  much  the 


328  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

cause  as  the  actual  expression  of  internal  conflicts.  For,  in  the 
dynamism  which  leads  him  to  create,  the  artist  suffers  from  a 
struggle  between  his  higher  and  his  lower  self  which  manifests 
itself  equally  in  all  the  spheres  and  utterances  of  his  life  and  also 
characterizes  his  attitude  to  woman.  She  can  be  for  him  at  once 
the  symbol  of  the  highest  and  the  lowest,  of  the  mortal  and  the 
immortal  soul,  of  life  or  of  death.  The  same  applies  too,  as  we 
shall  see,  to  the  work  itself  or  to  creation,  for  which  the  artist  is 
prepared  to  sacrifice  everything,  but  which,  in  the  hour  of  dis- 
appointment and  dejection,  he  frequently  damns  and  curses.  There 
is  in  the  artist  that  fundamental  dualism  from  which  we  all  suffer, 
intensified  in  him  to  a  point  which  drives  him  with  dynamic  com- 
pulsion from  creative  work  to  life,  and  from  life  back  to  new  and 
other  creativity.  According  to  the  artist's  personal  structure  and 
spiritual  ideology,  this  conflict  will  take  the  form  of  a  struggle 
between  good  and  evil,  beauty  and  truth,  or,  in  a  more  neurotic 
way,  between  the  higher  and  the  lower  self.  It  is  a  struggle  which, 
as  we  shall  presently  see,  determines  the  cultural  genetic  start  and 
development  of  the  creative  instinct  itself.  In  the  personal  con- 
flicts of  the  individual  artist  the  fundamental  dualism  which  orig- 
inally led  to  cultural  development  and  artistic  creation  persists  in 
all  its  old  strength.  It  cannot,  however,  be  reconstructed  and  un- 
derstood as  a  matter  of  individual  psychology  from  an  analysis 
of  the  artist's  personal  past,  because  the  modern  individual  not 
only  comes  into  the  world  with  humanity's  fundamental  dualism, 
but  is  also  potentially  charged  with  all  the  attempts  to  solve  it, 
so  that  his  personal  development  no  longer  provides  any  parallels 
with  the  development  of  the  race. 

For  if  we  inquire  into  the  relation  between  work  and  produc- 
tion in  the  artist,  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  there  are  two  kinds 
of  experience,  just  as  there  are  at  least  two  ways  of  artistic  pro- 
duction. Whereas  in  preanalytical  biography  it  was  chiefly  the 
artist's  later  and  proportionately  more  active  experience  that  was 
brought  into  relation  with  his  creativeness,  psychoanalysis,  with 
its  emphasis  on  the  decisive  importance  of  infantile  impressions, 
brought  this  more  passive  stage  of  experience  into  the  foreground. 
This  conception  got  no  further,  however,  than  the  banal  statement 


Life  and  Creation  329 

that  even  the  artist  was  not  immune  from  those  typical  experiences 
of  childhood  which  one  had  come  up  against  in  analyzing  the 
adult.  Just  as  Freud  saw  the  cause  of  neurosis  in  these  typical 
childhood  experiences  themselves  and  not  in  the  individual's  par- 
ticular reaction  to  them,  so  did  his  school  claim  to  see  in  those 
same  childhood  impressions  the  experiences  which  led  to  artistic 
creativity,  though  without  being  able  to  explain  the  difference  be- 
tween one  outcome  of  them  and  another.  An  inexplicable  "re- 
mainder" had  therefore  to  be  admitted,  but  this  remainder  em- 
braced no  more  and  no  less  than  the  whole  problem  of  artistic 
creativity.  Beyond  this  statement  analytical  psychography  has  to 
this  day  not  progressed,  as  the  latest  comprehensive  publication 
in  this  province  shows.14  And  although  the  Oedipus  complex,  and 
the  sexual  problem  of  the  child  that  is  bound  up  with  it,  still  forms 
the  center,  this  is  rather  the  sign  of  a  fatal  stoppage  than  a  proof 
of  the  superlative  importance  of  this  family  problem.  The  whole 
of  analytical  pathography  has  battened  for  more  than  a  quarter  of 
a  century  on  the  Oedipus  problem,  which  was  first  applied  to 
artistic  creation  by  Freud  (in  his  Interpretation  of  Dreams),  with- 
out, however,  reaching  even  the  point  at  which  I  came  out  when 
I  published  my  book:  Das  Inzest-Motiv  in  Dichtung  und  Sage 
(1912,  planned  in  1905),  to  which  I  gave  the  subtitle:  Grundzuge 
einer  Psychologie  des  dichterischen  Schaffens. 

In  this  book,  as  already  mentioned,  the  Oedipus  problem  is 
treated  mainly  as  a  motive  and  only  in  a  minor  degree  as  an  indi- 
vidual complex;  hence  its  ideological  significance  was  considered  as 
well  as  its  psychological.  Although,  under  the  spell  of  the  Freudian 
idea,  I  gave  pride  of  place  to  the  individual  as  against  the  collective 
psychology  (which  I  have  since  learned  to  appreciate  as  "ideol- 
ogy," 15)  yet  with  respect  to  the  latter,  too,  I  certainly  did  not  steer 
clear  of  psychological  premises  in  dealing  with  this  collective  mo- 
tive which  we  find  in  myth  and  saga  before  the  poets  made  a  theme 
of  it.  But,  be  this  as  it  may,  the  book  has  even  now  not  been  super- 
seded; indeed,  analytical  art  criticism  has  not  yet  put  itself  in  face 
of  its  problems — to  which  I  must  at  this  point  return.  That  the  poets 
struggled  so  intensely  with  the  Oedipus  complex  was  regarded  at 
the  time  as  a  proof  of  its  ubiquity,  and  so  it  actually  was  so  far  as 


330  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

concerned  individual  psychology.  But  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
psychology  of  artistic  production,  the  poets'  wrestling  with  the 
Oedipus  experience  seems  to  me  to  mean  something  essentially  dif- 
ferent: namely,  that  the  artist  reacts  more  strongly  than,  and  cer- 
tainly in  a  different  way  from,  the  normal  person  to  this  unavoidable 
average  experience  of  the  parental  relation.  This  is  not,  however, 
because  of  the  experience,  but  because  of  his  peculiar  reactivity, 
which  in  the  case  of  artistic  expression  we  call  "creative."  Now, 
from  the  comparison  that  I  drew  in  my  generalized  formulation  of 
"the  artist"  (also  in  1905)  between  artist  and  neurotic,  it  results 
that  the  latter  also  reacts  differently  from  the  average  person  to 
these  and  similar  experiences.  Only,  this  distinctive  reaction  does 
not,  with  him,  lead  to  production,  but  to  inhibition  or  to  fixation. 
The  artistic  reaction  is  thus  distinguishable  from  the  neurotic  by  an 
overcoming  of  the  trauma  or  of  the  potentiality  of  inhibition  result- 
ing therefrom,  no  matter  whether  this  is  achieved  by  a  single  effort 
or  is  spread  over  the  whole  lifework.  This  overcoming,  however  (so 
far  as  my  researches  have  taken  me),  is  only  possible — or  at  any 
rate  only  psychologically  explicable — in  one  way,  and  this,  as  we 
have  learned  from  the  therapy  which  helps  to  overcome  these 
development  inhibitions,  is  through  volitional  affirmation  of  the  ob- 
ligatory, which  in  every  case  not  only  works  usefully,  but  is  also 
definitely  creative.  Applied  to  the  special  case  of  the  Oedipus  con- 
flict, it  appears  to  me  today  that  it  is  the  willed  affirmation  of  the 
inhibitive  family  ties  that  is  the  creative  and  at  the  same  time  liber- 
ating factor.  But  this  affirmation  of  the  given,  which  in  relation  to 
family  symbols  manifests  itself  as  erotic  desire  (toward  mother  and 
sister)  and  thirst  for  battle  (with  father  or  brother),  corresponds 
on  the  one  hand  to  creative  appropriation  and  on  the  other  to  a 
constructive  victory  over  it.  < 

And  with  this  we  are  back  again  at  the  fundamental  process  of 
artistic  production,  which  consists  in  just  this  deliberate  appropria- 
tion of  that  which  happens  and  is  given  (including  passive  experi- 
ences) in  the  form  of  individual  new  creation.  The  Oedipus  complex 
forms  one  of  the  cultural  symbols  of  this  conflict  because  it  synthe- 
sizes the  biological,  psychological,  and  characterological  sides  of  it. 
But,  even  so,  it  only  symbolizes — even  in  the  case  of  a  child,  for 


Life  and  Creation  331 

whom  the  Oedipus  complex  is  already  the  expression  of  an  inner 
experience  and  not  merely  adaptation  to  an  outward  destiny.  It  even 
seems  to  me  as  if  the  Oedipus  myth  itself,  if  taken  in  the  Greek 
spirit,16  were  an  experience  of  this  same  striving  for  independence 
in  human  development:  namely,  the  deliberate  affirmation  of  the 
existence  forced  on  us  by  fate.  That  which  is  dimly  but  unequivo- 
cally preordained  for  the  hero  by  his  birth,  in  the  mythical  account, 
he  deliberately  makes  his  own  by  embodying  it  in  action  and  ex- 
perience. This  experience  is  a  creative  experience,  for  it  serves  to 
create  the  myth  itself,  and  the  sagas,  poems,  and  tragedies  based  on 
it,  whose  various  representations  of  the  one  theme  are  determined 
by  the  collective  ideological  outlook  of  the  moment  and  the  inter- 
pretation appropriate  thereto.  But  the  life  of  the  individual  hero 
himself  will  inevitably  be  destroyed,  whether  this  human  destiny  be 
interpreted  in  terms  of  heroism,  fatalism,  or  tragedy. 


1  Das  Inzest-Motiv  in  Dichtung  und  Sage  (chap.  Ill,  XVI).  I  found  the 
same  conception  later  in  Simmel's  Goethe. 

2  This  applies  not  only  to  most  artists,  but  also,  as  Wilhelm  Ostwald  for 
one  has  convincingly  proved,  to  the  scientific  creative  type  (Grosse  Manner). 

3  A  characteristic  instance  of  how,  in  avoiding  the  Scylla  of  Lombroso, 
one  may  fall  a  victim  to  the  Charybdis  of  analytical  psychology  is  afforded 
by  Victor  Jonesco's  book:  La  Personnalite  clu  genie  artiste,  which  I  read 
only  after  the  completion  of  my  own  work.  A  praiseworthy  exception  is 
Bernard  Grasset's  original  essay:  Psychologie  de  I'immortalite. 

4  How  this  feeling  of  guilt  can  hinder  or,  on  the  other  hand,  further  pro- 
ductivity I  have  shown  in  my  book:  Wahrheit  und  Wirklichkeit  (1929)  in 
the  section  on  the  sense  of  guilt  in  creation. 

5  E.  von  Sydow  distinguishes  these  polar  opposites,  from  the  standpoint  of 
aesthetic,  as  "eros-dominated"  and  "eros-dominating." 

6  Seelenglaube  und  Psychologie  (1930). 

7  What  interests  us  today  in  Byron,  for  instance,  is  his  romantic  life,  and 
not  his  out-of-date  poetry. 

8  See  W.  Dilthey's  book,  Erlebnis  und  Dichtung.  The  artist  personalities 
examined  there  in  relation  to  this  problem  are,  as  is  natural,  chiefly  romantic 
types  (Lessing,  Goethe,  Novalis,  Holderlin). 

9  This  is  a  point  of  view  which  I  endeavored  to  present  in  my  last  techni- 
cal work:  Die  Analyse  des  Analytikers  und  seine  Rolle  in  der  Gesamtsitua- 
tion  (1931). 

10  These  types,  evolved  from  a  study  of  psychological  dynamics  (see  my 
Die  Analyse  des  Analytikers),  are,  as  I  have  since  discovered,  accepted  as 
the  essential  key  concepts  of  all  polar  contrasts  of  style  by  P.  Frankl  in  his 
Entwicklungsphasen  der  neuren  Baukunst.  True,  Frankl's  work  is  not  lim- 


332  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

ited  merely  to  architecture,  but  more  narrowly  still  to  the  contrast  in  style 
between  Renaissance  and  Baroque.  We  shall  presently  see,  however  ("Schon- 
heit  und  Wahrheit"),  that  this  contrast  between  totality  and  partiality  is  a 
general  spiritual  distinction  between  the  Classical-naturalistic  and  the  primi- 
tive-abstract styles. 

11  Shakespeare's  Hamlet  and  Mozart's  Don  Juan  are  familiar  examples  of 
the  reaction  after  a  father's  death,  while  Wagner's  Lohengrin  followed  on 
the  death  of  the  composer's  mother.  These  works  are  supreme  examples  of 
artists  negotiating  with  the  problem  of  the  Beyond.  To  these  instances  may 
be  added  Ibsen's  epilogue  When  We  Dead  Awaken;  here  the  death  is  that  of 
the  artist  himself. 

12  See  my  account  in  Modern  Education  (1932),  pp.  24-26. 

13  The  references  are  taken  from  Emil  Lucka's  book  on  Michelangelo 
(1930). 

14  Die  psychoanalytische  Bewegung,  Vol.  II,  No.  4  (July-August  1930) 
(also  contains  a  bibliography  of  psychoanalytical  biography).  In  his  intro- 
duction Dr.  E.  Hitschmann  describes  my  book  on  the  Incest-Motiv  as  fun- 
damental for  the  analytical  survey  of  art  and  the  understanding  of  artistic 
creativity. 

15  Seelenglaube  und  Psychologie  (1930). 

18  See  my  explanations  in  Die  analytische  Reaktion  (1929),  pp.  68  ff.,  and 
also  in  Modern  Education,  chapter  VII. 


Geza  Roheim 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale 


A  psychological  explanation  of  myth  and  folk 
tale  must  start  out  with  a  definition  and  the  difficulty  that  arises 
here  is  that  the  theory  should  not  be  implicit  in  the  definition.  There- 
fore the  safe  way  would  be  to  differentiate  what  is  generally  known 
as  a  myth  from  what  is  generally  known  as  a  folk  tale. 

In  a  myth  the  actors  are  mostly  divine  and  sometimes  human.  In 
a  folk  tale  the  dramatis  personae  are  mostly  human  and  especially 
the  hero  is  human  frequently  with  supernatural  beings  as  his  oppo- 
nents. In  a  myth  we  have  definite  locality;  in  a  folk  tale  the  actors 
are  nameless,  the  scene  is  just  anywhere.  A  myth  is  part  of  a  creed; 
it  is  believed  by  the  narrator.  The  folk  tale  is  purely  fiction,  and  not 
intended  to  be  anything  else.  According  to  a  method  of  interpre- 
tation which  is  now  (luckily)  extinct,  a  myth  always  deals  with 
natural  phenomena,  while  according  to  another  view  which  had  ad- 
vocates among  the  anthropologists  of  the  previous  generation  and 
also  has  many  influential  representatives  today,  a  myth  is  always 
connected  with  a  ritual.  In  these  views  we  have  the  elements  of  a 
theory  and  they  go  beyond  what  we  should  call  a  definition.  Wundt 
and  von  der  Leyen  thought  that  the  myth  and  the  "Marchen"  which 

333 


334  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

are  so  similar  to  each  other  in  certain  ways  and  yet  so  different 
must  have  had  one  common  origin,  a  type  of  narrative  from  which 
both  have  developed  in  the  course  of  evolution  (Mythen-marchen). 

I  have  collected  myths  and  folk  tales  in  many  areas  and  if  I  just 
make  a  hasty  mental  survey  of  my  own  collections  I  find  that  in 
some  areas  a  clear  line  of  distinction  runs  between  the  two  while  in 
others  matters  seem  to  be  more  confused.  Now  considering  the 
magnitude  of  the  task  and  the  avowedly  preliminary  nature  of  this 
effort  I  will  make  matters  easy  for  myself  and  consider  the  situation 
only  in  central  Australia.  Here  we  have  a  very  clear  distinction  be- 
tween a  folk  tale  and  a  mythological  narrative  so  that  at  least  our 
starting  point  seems  secure. 

Before  I  went  out  to  the  field  very  little  was  known  about  folk 
tales  in  central  Australia.  The  narratives  recorded  by  Spencer  and 
Gillen  and  Strehlow  were  pure  myths  and  more  than  that  they  were 
esoteric  myths,  that  is  they  were  known  only  to  the  initiated.  I  won- 
dered whether  women  and  children  had  no  narratives  of  their  own; 
it  did  not  seem  probable  to  me  that  this  type  of  sublimation  should 
be  absent.  I  never  found  it  by  looking  for  it;  I  found  it  by  pure 
chance.  One  of  the  old  women  who  used  to  come  and  tell  me  her 
dreams  launched  out  into  a  long  narrative  that  did  not  sound  like  a 
dream  at  all.  "Did  you  really  dream  this?"  I  asked  her.  No,  this  is 
not  something  she  dreamed  last  night,  it  is  an  old  altjira  (dream). 
Then  I  found  out  that  the  Aranda  word  Altjira  meant  both  dream 
and  folk  tale.  In  the  western  (Luritja)  dialects  the  situation  is  the 
same,  tukurpa  means  myth  and  folk  tale. 

Once  I  knew  what  to  ask  for,  there  was  no  difficulty  in  collecting 
more  than  a  hundred  folk  tales  from  this  area.  The  interesting  thing 
in  these  folk  tales  is  that  they  are  of  a  type  that  is  utterly  unknown 
from  any  other  primitive  area.  Primitive  folk  tales,  including  other 
narratives  of  this  type  from  Australia,  are  more  varied  than  my  col- 
lection. Many  of  them  are  on  the  fines  familiar  to  students  of  folk- 
lore from  Danhardt's  Naturmarchen.  They  are  explanatory  narra- 
tives which  end  up  with  some  peculiarity  of  an  animal  species  or 
some  phenomenon  in  nature.  Therefore  they  are  hardly  "Marchen" 
at  all  in  our  sense  of  the  word,  because  the  ending  indicates  a  cer- 
tain claim  to  be  believed,  attempt  at  connecting  the  fable  with  reality. 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale  335 

My  collection  is  quite  different.  They  are  variations  of  one  con- 
stant theme;  the  struggle  of  human  beings  against  the  demons.  The 
hero  of  a  story  is  always  an  indatoa  (L.  kuninjatu)  which  translated 
literally  means  a  good-looking  man.  The  heroine  is  a  tneera  (L. 
aneera),  i.  e.  a  beauty.  In  a  sense  it  does  not  really  mean  beautiful, 
it  is  just  normal  healthy,  not  monstrous.  On  the  other  hand,  how- 
ever, sometimes  it  is  stressed  that  the  indatoa  is  really  a  beautiful 
man,  big  and  strong,  with  fair  skin  and  fair  hair  and  he  is  a  skilled 
hunter.  His  wife  the  tneera  is  fair  and  beautiful  like  her  husband. 
Some  of  the  full-blooded  natives  actually  have  fair  hair  (Aranda 
ilpirtja  or  aralkara,  Alice  Springs). 

As  antagonists  we  have  the  nanananas,  and  bankalangas.  They 
are  hairy  giants  with  big  penises  and  testicles  with  some  of  the  char- 
acteristics of  the  "stupid  devils"  of  European  folklore.  The  females 
of  the  species  have  big  breasts  and  genitals,  sometimes  they  are 
superhuman  in  size.  Besides  these  two  opposing  groups  there  is  a 
third  actor  on  the  scene,  the  malpakara,  who  seems  to  be  halfway 
between  the  hero  and  the  villain  of  the  melodrama.  The  malpakara 
is  always  a  young  man  with  an  unbridled  craving  for  intercourse. 
This  is  about  the  only  thing  he  can  do,  but  the  folk  tales  give  hyper- 
bolistic  description  of  his  sexual  prowess.  He  will  go  on  having  inter- 
course for  several  days  and  nights  or  he  will  push  a  woman  along 
with  his  penis  inserted  into  her  vagina.  Moreover  the  malpakara  is 
always  represented  as  thin,  ugly  and  a  very  poor  hunter.  After  his 
initiation  he  becomes  a  real  human  being,  a  kuninjatu. 

The  kulaia  (L.  muruntu),  a  fabulous  serpent — who  rises  out  of 
the  water  holes  right  up  to  the  sky  in  a  whirlwind  and  swallows 
people,  may  be  on  either  side;  he  may  appear  in  the  role  of  a  demon 
or  of  a  normal  human  being  who  has  been  transformed  into  a  ser- 
pent by  evil  magic. 

But  the  most  outstanding  feature  of  all  these  narratives  is  canni- 
balism. The  war  between  human  beings  and  ogres  is  being  waged 
with  equal  ruthlessness  on  both  sides  but  whereas  the  ogres  always 
eat  the  indatoas,  human  beings  never  retaliate  in  kind.  Neither  do 
they  bury  the  body  of  the  ogre  or  put  it  up  on  a  kind  of  scaffold 
which  would  be  the  two  ways  these  tribes  have  of  disposing  of  their 
dead.  The  ogre  is  always  burnt  at  the  end  and  the  human  beings 


336  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

are  always  victorious.  Besides  cannibalism  the  other  outstanding 
feature  of  these  narratives  is  the  happy  end. 

The  story  starts  with  a  sentence  like  this: 

"An  indatoa  lived  with  a  tneera,"  or  "an  old  man  lived  with  his 
grandson,"  and  ends  with  the  formula  "then  they  came  to  a  big 
camp  and  lived  there  forever."  It  is  quite  striking  that  while  most 
primitive  folk  tales  have  no  such  beginning  and  end  formulas,  the 
beginning  and  the  end  of  an  Australian  folk  tale  finds  its  closest 
parallels  in  Europe — "Once  upon  a  time,"  and  "They  lived  happily 
ever  afterwards."  The  other  striking  analogy  with  European  Mar- 
chen  is  the  transformation  motive  in  its  particular  setting.  Just  as  in 
the  European  folk  tale  the  animal  metamorphosis  of  the  hero  is  fre- 
quently the  result  of  a  curse  of  an  injured  person;  there  the  serpent 
form  is  due  to  the  evil  magic  of  a  man  whose  wife  the  other  man 
has  captured. 

When  taken  in  conjunction  with  another  feature  of  these  folk 
tales,  their  peculiar  and  sometimes  even  weird  archaism  and  sav- 
agery, one  is  certainly  tempted  to  believe  that  here  "our  plummets 
have  touched  bottom"  and  that  we  have  here  actually  a  type  of  nar- 
rative which  is  the  forerunner  of  folk  tales.  In  order  to  show  what  I 
mean  by  the  weird  character  of  these  narratives  I  had  better  give 
one  or  two  examples. 

"Two  bankalangas  came  on  from  the  west.  One  came  on  the  top 
of  the  hill,  the  other  on  the  plain.  The  one  of  the  plain  saw  a  kunin- 
jatu  with  his  wife  eating  a  kangaroo.  He  threw  a  stone  as  a  sign  to 
the  other  bankalanga  and  then  he  came  down  from  the  hill.  The 
two  bankalangas  sneaked  up  and  one  of  them  speared  the  kunin- 
jatu  right  through  the  ribs.  The  woman  ran  away.  The  second  ban- 
kalanga threw  a  stick  at  her  neck  and  killed  her.  Then  he  ran  up  to 
her  and  tried  to  put  his  fingers  into  her  vagina  to  pull  the  young 
ones  out  as  if  she  were  a  kangaroo.  First  they  ate  the  kangaroo, 
then  the  man,  and  then  the  woman.  They  kept  repeating  this.  They 
opened  the  vulva  wide  to  pull  the  young  ones  out,  putting  their  arm 
in.  Finally  one  of  the  women  managed  to  get  away  and  went  to  a 
big  camp  whence  she  brought  many  kuninjatus.  The  bankalangas 
put  charcoal  on *  and  they  came  up.  The  kuninjatus  encircled  them, 
then  they  all  got  up  and  speared  them.  They  burnt  all  the  bodies 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale  337 

and  went  back  to  a  big  camp  where  they  kutunyinanyi"  (stayed 
always). 

In  another  case  we  find  the  same  "savagery"  in  the  sexual  sphere. 
"Two  thin  malpakara  boys  came  from  the  west.  They  found  that  a 
wild  dog  had  killed  a  kangaroo  and  they  picked  the  half  rotten 
corpse  up  and  ate  it.  Then  they  find  a  fresh  kangaroo  killed  by  a 
wild  dog  and  eat  that.  They  miss  every  kangaroo  they  try  to  spear 
and  the  next  time  all  they  can  get  is  a  kangaroo  skin  left  by  the  dog 
which  they  cooked  and  ate.  One  of  them  had  an  erection,  the  penis 
was  like  an  arm  and  moved  up  and  down.  They  keep  commenting 
on  the  size  of  each  other's  penis.  One  of  them  puts  his  perns  into  the 
other  one's  anus  and  that  is  how  they  walk  along.  Finally  they  came 
to  a  camp  where  a  kuninjatu  lived  with  his  wife.  The  man  exchanged 
meat  with  them  and  they  were  friends.  But  when  the  man  left  his 
wife  behind  to  get  seeds  the  two  malpakara  caught  her  mbanja  fash- 
ion.2 She  resisted  in  a  crouched  position.  They  had  intercourse  with 
her,  ejaculating  on  every  part  of  her  body  including  the  anus  ex- 
cepting only  the  vagina.  One  of  them  stands  on  guard  to  kill  the 
returning  husband.  But  both  miss  him  and  he  kills  them.  Then  the 
woman  whose  whole  body  was  dripping  with  semen  got  up,  wiped 
herself  with  grass  and  they  burnt  the  bodies  and  kutu  nyinanyi." 
(Abbreviated  version.) 

Our  Central  Australians  are  "savage"  enough  from  a  European 
point  of  view  but  the  folk  tales  are  far  more  so.  There  is  less  native 
culture  in  them,  some  institutions  like  the  marriage  classes  are  com- 
pletely absent,  others  like  totemism  barely  mentioned.  And  there  is 
more  "savagery,"  more  sadism,  more  unbridled  lust  and  aggression. 
Perhaps  they  actually  reflect  a  phase  of  culture  that  is  more  primi- 
tive than  that  of  the  Central  Australians  as  we  find  them  today. 
Some  of  the  customs  described  by  D.  Bates  certainly  give  me  the 
impression  of  a  society  far  more  savage  than  any  I  have  known 
among  the  Aranda  or  Yumu  or  Pitjentara.3  I  have  heard  nothing 
like  her  account  of  the  Koogurda  who  hunted  and  ate  kangaroo  and 
emu  and  human  flesh  on  much  the  same  level,  or  the  Kaalurwonga 
who  pursued  fat  men,  women  and  girls  and  ate  them.  Or  the  account 
of  Dowie  who  was  given  four  baby  sisters  to  eat  and  was  rubbed 
over  with  their  fat  to  make  him  grow  big  and  strong.  He  hated  his 


338  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

mother  Bildana  and  his  other  mothers  and  his  sisters  and  his  broth- 
ers. He  would  have  eaten  them  all  but  they  were  older  than  he  was, 
and  so  they  could  not  be  given  to  him  to  eat.  At  the  blood  drinking 
he  drank  greedily  and  swallowed  the  big  pieces  of  raw  liver  at  initi- 
ation. He  brought  home  many  human  bodies  for  he  would  stalk 
human  game  in  murderer's  slippers  and  he  loved  the  flesh  of  man, 
woman  and  child.  More  than  this  even;  he  killed  and  ate  his  own 
four  wives. 

Dowie  is  certainly  behaving  like  the  bankalangas  and  nanananas 
of  our  folk  tales  and  one  possible  explanation  of  these  narratives 
would  therefore  be  historical.  They  represent  the  past  of  native  civi- 
lization, social  and  cultural  conditions  that  antedate  those  we  find 
at  the  present  time.  Then  we  should  also  have  to  assume  that  they 
are  accounts  of  warfare  between  two  tribes,  one  of  them  cannibalistic 
(the  bankalangas)  and  the  other  not  cannibalistic.  Since  Central 
Australian  tribes  are  actually  in  the  habit  of  confusing  their  con- 
cepts of  a  demon  with  those  of  the  neighboring  tribe,  since  there  is 
in  their  minds  not  much  difference  between  the  leltja  (avenger, 
human  being),  the  ltana  (ghost),  and  the  erintja  (demon),  such  a 
theory  would  seem  quite  plausible.  Yet,  while  admitting  that  some 
of  the  features  of  the  folk  tale  in  Central  Australia  might  well  be 
accounted  for  on  these  lines,  there  are  some  obvious  difficulties. 
Why  is  the  folk  tale  called  a  dream?  Why  does  it  usually  end  with 
marriage?  What  is  the  role  of  the  malpakara,  who  becomes  a  nor- 
mal person  after  initiation?  What  is  the  explanation  of  the  demons' 
huge  genital  organs?  If  the  narrative  is  historical  we  should  expect 
names  and  localities,  especially  the  latter  since  we  see  that  locality 
is  such  an  important  factor  in  their  myths. 

I  think  we  can  account  for  these  aspects  of  the  story  from  a  dif- 
ferent angle.  The  prevailing  form  of  cannibalism  in  Central,  South 
and  Western  Australia  is  "baby-eating."  The  Pitjentara  eat  every 
second  child.  The  infant  is  knocked  on  the  head  by  the  father  and 
then  eaten  by  the  mother  and  the  siblings  who  are  supposed  to 
acquire  double  strength  by  this  proceeding.  With  the  Pindupi, 
Yumu,  and  Ngali  the  proceeding  is  more  irregular;  they  seem  to 
eat  the  babies  whenever  they  are  hungry  and  especially  when  the 
mother  gets  a  strong  craving  to  do  so.  They  even  go  to  the  length 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale  339 

of  pulling  the  fetus  out  of  the  womb  and  eating  it — which  is  ex- 
actly the  practice  ascribed  to  the  demons  in  the  story. 

The  cannibal  demons  represent  the  cannibal  parents.  The  Aus- 
tralian child  has  to  face  a  peculiar  difficulty  in  his  attitude  toward 
his  parents,  that  is,  in  growing  up.  He  has  really  loving  parents  who 
grant  him  nearly  everything.  His  mother  and  the  other  mothers  of 
the  tribe  never  refuse  their  nipple,  both  parents  are  always  ready  to 
play  with  him  and  they  rarely  restrict  even  his  aggression  against 
their  own  person.  Yet  these  same  parents  have  eaten  his  siblings  and 
therefore  might  have  eaten  him  also.  Now  compare  the  motives  of 
some  of  my  folk  tales  to  this  situation. 

1.  A  manatatai  (another  name  for  the  cannibal  demon)  steals  a 
boy  and  takes  him  to  his  camp  to  be  eaten. 

2.  The  father  follows  on  the  track  and  attacks  the  giants  with  his 
magic  stick. 

3.  The  giants  kill  each  other.  Father  and  son  go  home. 

The  paternal  imago  has  undergone  a  fission.  The  kind  loving 
father  of  everyday  life  is  the  one  who  protects  and  rescues  his  son 
while  the  cannibal  father  appears  in  the  guise  of  the  cannibal  giant. 
The  giants  fighting  against  each  other  represents  this  ambivalence 
of  the  father  imago.  The  next  story  shows  this  process  of  fission 
quite  clearly. 

1.  A  boy  lives  with  his  grandfather  who  is  half  a  demon. 

2.  The  grandfather  has  a  mate  in  a  cave  who  is  a  real  demon. 

3.  The  old  man  and  the  boy  hunt  wallabies;  the  old  man  is 
always  trying  to  entice  the  boy  into  the  cave. 

4.  He  lights  a  fire  at  the  entrance  of  the  cave  and  kills  both  old 
men.  The  boy  goes  to  another  camp. 

A  favorite  trick  of  the  demons  in  these  stories  again  reminds  us 
of  European  folklore.  In  European  "Marchen"  we  find  the  episode 
in  the  following  form.  The  hero  meets  an  old  witch  whose  jaws 
reach  to  the  sky  and  who  is  otherwise  as  hideous  as  she  can  be.  He 
says,  "Good  morning,  grandmother,"  and  the  witch  says,  "It's  lucky 
you  called  me  grandmother,  otherwise  I  would  have  killed  you."  In 
my  Australian  collection  the  male  or  female  demon  always  poses 
as  some  relation  of  the  unsuspecting  human  being  in  order  to  eat 
him  afterwards. 


340  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

A  bankalanga  lived  with  his  wife  and  with  them  lived  a  human 
(kuninjatu)  child  whom  they  had  stolen.  They  had  a  big  hut  with  a 
partition  in  it.  The  bankalanga  slept  on  the  partition  and  his  wife 
and  the  child  slept  on  the  ground.  The  child  thought  he  was  alone 
in  the  hut  with  his  mother  because  he  never  saw  the  bankalanga. 
She  sent  him  out  for  rats  and  when  he  brought  them  in  she  passed 
them  to  her  husband  who  was  hidden  behind  the  partition.  One  day 
the  child  said,  "It  is  raining  into  the  hut."  But  it  was  not  rain;  it 
was  the  bankalanga's  urine.  The  old  woman  said,  "Make  a  big  fire 
and  dry  yourself."  He  did  this  but  next  day  he  could  still  smell  the 
wet  sand.  "This  is  not  water,  it  is  urine,"  he  says.  He  called  the  old 
woman  to  go  hunting  but  he  stayed  at  home  and  hid.  Then  he  saw 
the  male  bankalanga  coming  out  of  the  hut  and  going  back  again. 
He  set  fire  to  the  hut  and  burnt  it  with  the  bankalanga  in  it  and  he 
went  to  the  real  people.  When  the  old  woman  returned  she  found 
the  husband  dead  and  followed  the  boy's  footsteps,  weeping.  The 
real  people  killed  her  too  and  burnt  her  with  her  husband.  The  boy 
was  initiated  and  lived  there  always. 

The  child  transforms  the  "bad  parents"  into  demons;  he  is  not 
their  child  at  all,  they  have  stolen  him  from  his  real  parents.  In  the 
beginning  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  father,  the  world  for  the  infant 
consists  in  himself  and  his  mother.  But  father  and  mother  are  doing 
something  mysterious  in  the  hut  and  finally  the  father's  presence 
becomes  obvious  and  emotionally  significant  through  his  sexual  ac- 
tivity (primal  scene).  The  father's  urine  stands  for  his  semen  and  we 
know  that  enuresis  or  in  general  urinating  is  an  infantile  form  of 
rivalry  with  the  father's  sexual  activity. 

Fire  and  water,  as  in  this  narrative,  are  exactly  the  most  wide- 
spread symbols  for  urine;  and  if  the  bankalanga  is  regularly  burnt, 
in  the  end  this  might  well  mean  that  the  father  conflict  is  here 
fought  out  on  the  urethral  level.  The  end  of  the  story  is  that  the  boy 
gets  initiated  or  marries  and  lives  happily  ever  afterwards.  It  is  a 
young  child's  dream  about  growing  up. 

In  European  folk  lore,  narratives  about  the  trolls  and  ogres  are 
fairly  similar  to  these  Australian  folk  tales  about  bankalanga  and 
nananana.  In  the  Norse  story  "The  Blue  Belt"  a  lad  and  his  mother 
come  to  the  house  of  the  troll.  She  pretends  to  be  afraid  of  the  troll 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale  341 

and  is  reluctant  to  enter  the  house  but  he  goes  right  in  and  says  to 
the  giant,  "Good  evening,  grandfather."  "Well,  here  I  have  sat  three 
hundred  years  and  no  one  has  ever  called  me  grandfather  before." 
After  supper  the  giant  says,  "As  for  beds,  I  don't  know  what's  to 
be  done.  I  have  only  got  one  bed  and  a  cradle,  but  we  could  get  on 
pretty  well  if  you  would  sleep  in  the  cradle  and  then  your  mother 
might  lie  in  the  bed  yonder." 

So  now  the  hero  is  in  the  cradle.  He  pretends  to  be  asleep  but  he 
is  listening  to  what  the  troll  is  talking  with  his  mother — who,  al- 
though the  story  in  its  present  form  does  not  say  so,  are  evidently 
in  bed  together.  "We  two  might  live  here  so  happily  together  could 
we  only  be  rid  of  this  son  of  yours."  The  rest  of  the  narrative  with 
the  "treacherous  mother"  motive,  the  castration  symbolism,  and  its 
ultimate  happy  end  does  not  concern  us. 

Here  the  point  is  that  the  troll  is  obviously  the  father  as  a  stranger 
and  enemy,  that  the  hero  is  in  the  cradle  and  that  he  is  witnessing 
the  primal  scene.  In  this  primal  scene  situation  the  mother  is  be- 
traying the  son  for  the  father's  sake.  Very  frequently  however  we 
have  the  opposite  formula.  The  technical  term  for  this  role  of  the 
mother  is  "Hilfsalte,"  the  helpful  old  woman.  The  devil's  mother  or 
wife  plays  this  role  in  the  folk  tale  called  "The  Devil's  Three  Golden 
Hairs." 

The  hero  has  to  get  three  golden  hairs  from  the  devil,  the  sun,  or 
a  dragon.  The  ogre's  wife  hides  him  under  the  bed;  the  devil  when 
he  comes  home  wants  to  eat  him.  Now  comes  the  scene  about  the 
dialogue  between  the  two  supernaturals  (devil  and  wife)  and  the 
eavesdropping  of  the  child  hero.  The  latter  wants  not  only  the  three 
golden  hairs,  but  also  the  answer  to  certain  questions.  These  ques- 
tions are:  why  can't  the  princess  be  delivered  of  her  child?  why  has 
the  water  ceased  to  flow  in  the  well?  why  has  the  tree  ceased  to 
bear  apples?  etc.,  and  the  answer  is  that  a  toad,  or  snake,  or  a  corpse 
is  buried  there  and  has  to  be  taken  out,  then  the  water  will  flow 
again,  the  tree  will  bear  fruit  again,  etc.4  It  is  clear  that  the  toad 
and  the  other  hidden  live  things  symbolize  the  embryo  in  the  womb 
and  that  the  scene  is  a  combination  of  body-destruction  phantasies 
and  retaliation  (take  the  child  out  of  the  womb  and  eat  it — be  eaten 


342  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

by  father)  and  castration,  anxiety  (hair  torn  out,  "eaten"  as  in  the 
case  of  the  wolf -boy). 

After  overcoming  all  the  anxieties  connected  with  the  process  of 
growing  up  the  narrative  ends  with  the  hero's  marriage.  "Jack  and 
his  mother  became  very  rich  and  he  married  a  great  princess  and 
they  lived  happy  ever  after."  "Then  the  Princess  married  him  and 
all  went  wondrously  well."  A  striking  confirmation  of  this  theory, 
that  the  hero  of  the  folk  tale  is  a  young  boy,  comes  from  an  un- 
expected angle.  Hero  and  heroine  are  fair-haired.  Now  fair  hair 
actually  occurs  among  pure-blooded  aboriginals,  but  as  Professor 
Ashley  Montagu  tells  me,  only  as  a  juvenile  trait  which  disappears 
in  adult  age.  From  my  own  memory  I  can  confirm  this. 

Now  something  about  the  myth  again  from  a  Central  Australian 
point  of  view.  The  mythical  heroes  have  definite  names  and  their 
wanderings  take  place  in  definite  localities.  Indeed  the  myth  is  mainly 
concerned  with  explaining  these  localities,  it  is  definitely  trying  to 
link  up  phantasy  and  reality.  The  map  is  marked  by  ceremonies 
and  the  rites  of  the  present  day  are  merely  repetitions  of  the  rites 
celebrated  by  the  primeval  ancestors. 

All  these  rites  form  a  part  of  the  initiation  ritual  and  the  ances- 
tors seem  to  have  nothing  else  to  do  than  to  initiate  their  young 
men.  But  the  story  is  not  about  the  young  people,  not  about  the 
initiated  but  about  the  initiators.  The  difference  in  the  final  sentence 
is  significant.  In  the  folk  tale  it  is  the  Central  Australian  equivalent 
of  "they  were  married  and  lived  happily  ever  afterwards."  In  the 
myth  it  is  borkerake  tjurungeraka:  he  was  tired  and  became  trans- 
formed into  a  tjurunga,  i.e.  he  died.  Becoming  a  tjurunga  ends  the 
story  and  the  career  of  the  hero,  it  is  death  and  apotheosis.  A  folk 
tale  is  a  narrative  with  a  happy  end,  a  myth  is  a  tragedy;  a  god 
must  die  before  he  can  be  truly  divine.5 

A  detailed  analysis  of  my  myth  material  reveals  that  certain  heroes 
of  the  altjiranga  mitjina  (the  eternal  ones  of  the  dream)  are  merely 
adjectives  of  the  one  great  hero  Malpunga,  the  phallic  originator  of 
the  tjurunga  cult.  Malpunga  is  often  called  the  great  father  and  he 
is  the  leader  of  a  group  of  young  men.  The  significant  thing  is  how- 
ever that  these  mythical  personages  who  are  derived  from  adjectives 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale  343 

originally  applied  to  Malpunga  always  have  names  that  imply  a 
curse  (like  "Rough  anus,"  etc.),  i.e.,  that  the  names  represent  the 
aggression  of  the  brothers  against  the  Primal  Father.  In  a  version 
collected  by  Strehlow  subincision  is  performed  on  the  father  by  his 
son  out  of  jealousy.  Some  of  the  tribes  in  western  New  Guinea  have 
myths  of  the  Australian  type  in  which  the  wanderings  of  a  totemistic 
ancestral  hero  are  told,  ending  with  his  death  and  apotheosis.  After 
finishing  their  life  on  earth  these  ancestors  become  petrified  or 
changed  into  trees  and  they  are  honored  as  the  patron  spirits  of  cer- 
tain localities  and  groups.  In  these  narratives  the  Oedipus  and  Primal 
Horde  theme  is  strongly  marked.  Aramemb  adopts  Jawi  as  his  son, 
when  Jawi  seduces  Aramemb's  wife  he  kills  him  by  magic.  Then  he 
tries  to  revive  him  but  he  arrives  too  late  and  this  is  how  death 
came  into  the  world.  But  death  is  again  denied  in  the  apotheosis 
that  follows.  From  Jawi's  grave  a  coconut  palm  arises  miraculously 
and  Jawi  becomes  the  Dema  (spirit  or  god)  of  the  coconut  palm. J 

The  Kiwai  myth  of  Marunogere  is  very  instructive.  Marunogere, 
the  great  leader,  swallows  a  lump  of  sago  like  a  cassowary  and  def- 
ecates it  back  unchanged  but  the  sago  is  then  rapidly  transformed 
into  a  pig  which  he  names  after  himself,  Marunogere.  All  the  peo- 
ple hunt  the  pig  and  his  youngest  son  shoots  it,  so  he  dies,  but  comes 
to  life  again  for  a  short  time.  He  opens  the  vulva  of  the  women  and 
teaches  people  to  have  intercourse.  Then  he  dies  again  and  after  his 
death  people  cut  up  and  preserved  his  flesh  as  strong  "medicine" 
and  in  some  places  they  have  preserved  small  pieces  of  dried  human 
flesh  which  is  said  to  be  that  of  Marunogere's  body.6  So  far  we  see 
a  clear  Oedipus  and  Primal  Horde  myth.  It  starts  with  a  phantasy, 
frequently  found  in  our  analysis,  and  the  enhanced  magical  power 
of  the  father  who  has  become  a  representative  of  both  parents  in 
the  anal  delivery  phantasy.  Then  we  have  the  attack  of  the  group, 
the  youngest  son  as  murderer  of  the  Primal  Father,  the  death  of  the 
latter  as  origin  of  death  in  general.  When  the  father  is  dead,  human 
beings  grow  up;  they  have  intercourse.  If  the  youngest  son  were  the 
hero  of  the  narrative  and  the  story  were  to  end  at  this  point,  we 
should  have  what  I  regard  as  the  kernel  of  all  "Marchen"  plots. 
However,  the  hero  in  this  narrative  is  the  father  and  the  revolt  is 
regarded  as  a  crime  and  an  outrage.  The  psychological  background 


344  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  the  story  is  a  strong  father  identification.  The  sequel  of  the  narra- 
tive is  that  besides  Marunogere  there  was  another  great  man  called 
Gibogu.  This  chief  wanted  everybody  to  take  part  in  the  moguru. 
(The  myth  is  the  first  moguru  and  the  prototype  of  all  subsequent 
rites.)  Marunogere  wished  to  keep  the  ceremony  secret  and  to  give 
prominence  to  the  sexual  aspects  which  were  to  take  place  in  the 
dark.  On  account  of  the  quarrel,  Gibogo  and  his  followers  left  the 
rest  and  went  up  into  the  sky  where  they  cause  the  thunder  to  frighten 
Marunogere  and  his  people.  The  second  chief,  introduced  at  the  end 
of  Marunogere,  is  the  part  that  opposes  sexuality  and  frightens  peo- 
ple from  the  sky  by  his  thunder.  Like  so  many  of  his  thunder  wield- 
ing colleagues  he  represents  law  and  order,  the  Superego. 

If  we  believe  that  the  nucleus  of  myth  is  the  death  and  apotheosis 
of  the  Primal  Father  we  support  a  theory  once  so  very  popular 
among  anthropologists  according  to  which  the  gods  are  the  dead.  If 
at  the  same  time  we  assume  as  a  regular  or  at  least  frequent  phase 
of  evolution  the  type  of  totemistic  myth  found  in  Australia  and  New 
Guinea,  in  which  mythological  ancestors  are  identified  with  an  ani- 
mal species  or  natural  phenomena,  this  would  be  one  of  the  chan- 
nels through  which  a  "nature  mythology"  could  develop.  Whereas 
some  of  these  myths  may  be  handed  down  directly  as  oral  tradition 
from  the  Primal  Horde  period  7  others  may  have  been  created  by 
later  generations  on  the  old  lines  and  in  these  we  may  find  the  marks 
left  on  myth  by  history.  Others  may  have  stepped  into  the  Primal 
Father's  shoes.  But  the  main  thing  is  that  this  type  of  narrative  is 
only  conceivable  on  a  superego  level,  that  is  it  must  be  based  on  a 
strong  father  identification.  This  is  the  "tragic  conflict"  of  the  hero 
rebel.  And  this  difference  in  ontogenetic  stage,  the  folk  tale  with  its 
fight  against  "Superego  precursors,"  "wicked  parent"  imagos,  and 
the  myth  with  its  roots  in  the  fully  fledged  superego,  may  account 
for  the  different  attitude  to  reality  that  we  find  in  myth.  The  fully 
developed  superego  represents  the  real  father  or  at  least  the  real 
father  enters  into  the  picture  beside  the  phantasy  image  of  infancy. 
Moreover  in  the  overlying,  conscious  strata,  the  superego  also  stands 
for  society.  Myths  in  the  "Primal  Horde  style,"  that  is,  myths  that 
represent  the  brothers  revolting  against  a  single  father,  might  very 
well  arise  later,  not  by  inherited  memory  but  by  the  idea  of  shared 


Myth  and  Folk  Tale  345 

responsibility  and  identification  as  defenses  against  superego  anxiety. 
It  is  too  much  to  be  against  the  father  and  against  the  group  at  the 
same  time,  therefore  by  introducing  the  device  of  representation  by 
the  opposite,  the  father  becomes  the  Lone  Hero  and  the  enemy  of 
society.  The  son  becomes  part  of  the  group,  and  by  this  fission  in 
the  superego,  his  anxiety  is  reduced  and  revolt  becomes  imaginable. 
As  this  conflict  is  partly  real,  as  it  is  a  more  adult  form  of  the  same 
conflict  which  we  find  in  "Marchen"  on  a  more  infantile  level,  myth 
is  a  phantasy  that  demands  to  be  believed  and  is  bound  up  with 
group  activity  in  the  form  of  ritual. 

In  the  folk  tale  we  relate  how  we  overcame  the  anxiety  connected 
with  the  "bad  parents"  and  grew  up,  in  myth  we  confess  that  only 
death  can  end  the  tragic  ambivalence  of  human  nature.  Eros  triumphs 
in  the  folk  tale,  Thanatos  in  the  myth. 


1  "Narkapala";  means  that  he  is  ready  to  fight. 

2  Marriage  by  rape. 

3  The  natives  described  in  her  account  live  south  and  west  of  those  I  have 
known. 

4  The  Toad  which  is  usually  the  cause  of  the  trouble  with  the  well  or  tree 
is  here  under  the  Princess'  bed  and  is  the  cause  of  her  sickness. 

5  This  hypothesis  aims  at  what  I  have  come  to  regard  as  the  kernel  of  the 
folk  tale  and  of  the  myth;  it  cannot  account  for  every  narrative  which,  ac- 
cording to  our  definition,  should  be  called  a  myth.  Gods  like  Thor  and  Indra 
seem  to  be  deified  "Marchen"  heroes  and  it  is  with  this  type  of  myth  that 
O.  Rank  is  mainly  concerned. 

6  According  to  the  theory  I  am  advocating  in  this  paper  this  is  a  typical 
myth  and  not  a  folk  tale  [Marchen]. 

7  I  again  emphasize  that  I  am  trying  to  give  an  explanation  which  does 
not  necessitate  the  assumption  of  an  "inherited  unconsciousness." 


Franz  Alexander 


The  Psychoanalyst 

Looks  at  Contemporary  Art 


Products  of  art  can  be  looked  upon  from  two 
different  points  of  view:  the  aesthetic  and  the  psychologic.  The 
aesthetician  and  the  art  critic  try  to  evaluate  their  artistic  merit.  The 
psychologist  is  not  primarily  concerned  with  what  is  a  good  or  a  bad 
painting;  he  considers  the  works  of  artists  as  valuable  personal  docu- 
ments which  throw  light  upon  the  personality  of  their  originator. 
Like  dreams  or  daydreams,  works  of  literature,  painting,  and  sculp- 
ture are  products  of  the  creative  fantasy  which  reflect  the  psychol- 
ogy of  the  artist.  The  psychological  study  of  art  products  may  serve 
not  only  for  the  study  of  the  artist  as  a  person,  but  also  for  the  study 
of  the  emotional  climate  of  a  historical  period.  Because  the  work  of 
an  artist  is  a  reflection  of  his  personality  as  well  as  a  reflection  of 
the  spirit  of  its  times,  the  literature  and  art  of  a  given  period  are 
most  important  documents  for  the  historian  of  culture.  I  am  prima- 
rily concerned  here  with  the  question :  in  what  way  does  contempo- 
rary art  express  the  spirit  of  our  era,  as  Byzantine  art  expressed  the 
mentality  of  the  Middle  Ages,  or  impressionism  the  outlook  of  the 
second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century? 
346 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  347 

In  order  to  answer  this  question,  one  must  first  of  all  establish  the 
characteristic  features  of  contemporary  painting.  As  in  every  past 
historical  period  as  well  as  at  present,  there  is  a  great  divergence  in 
subject  matter  and  technique  used  by  the  different  artists.  In  spite 
of  these  individual  differences,  there  are  fundamental  similarities.  It 
is  not  difficult,  even  for  a  nonexpert,  to  recognize  Byzantine  paint- 
ing or  to  distinguish  a  Renaissance  product  from  a  nineteenth- 
century  impressionist  picture.  Obviously,  there  are  certain  common 
features  which  are  characteristic  of  a  period,  although  it  is  not 
always  easy  to  define  them  precisely. 

Earlier  art  historians  tried  to  explain  these  common  features  pri- 
marily from  the  point  of  view  of  the  techniques  used  by  the  artists. 
It  is  only  recently  that  some  cultural  historians  have  attempted  to 
understand  the  prevailing  style  in  art  characteristic  of  a  historical 
period  from  the  cultural  climate  to  which  all  persons  living  in  a 
given  time  and  place  are  equally  exposed.  Naturally,  there  are  al- 
ways exceptions — artists  who  do  not  represent  the  current  trend.  In 
trying  to  define  the  characteristic  features  of  contemporary  paint- 
ing, we  shall  disregard  those  works  which  are  not  representative  of 
our  times.  An  artist  of  today  may  try  to  paint  in  the  style  of  Rem- 
brandt or  Titian,  but  such  exceptional  cases  must  be  explained  on  a 
highly  individual  basis.  They  may  offer  most  interesting  opportuni- 
ties to  study  the  psychology  of  such  atypical  artists,  but  they  are  not 
suitable  for  reconstructing  the  prevailing  ideological  trends  and  spirit 
of  our  times. 

What,  then,  are  the  most  basic  common  features  in  contemporary 
paintings?  One  basic  similarity  consists  either  in  the  complete  ab- 
sence of  real  objects  or  in  their  radical  distortion.  In  modern  paint- 
ing this  trend  is  referred  to  as  nonobjective  art,  or  abstract  art.  There 
may  be  a  lack  of  any  reference  to  real  objects,  as  for  example  in 
some  paintings  of  Mondrian  or  Klee.  In  other  works  the  objects  are 
fragmented  into  their  constituent  parts  and  reassembled  in  different 
perspective,  as  in  cubist  paintings.  In  these  it  is  sometimes  well-nigh 
impossible  to  recognize  the  fragmented  object,  the  product  often 
resembling  a  piece  of  a  picture  puzzle.  Again,  in  other  paintings, 
the  object  is  simply  distorted  but  is  still  recognizable,  or  is  reduced 


348  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

to  its  most  elementary,  often  geometrically  simplified,  formal  and 
basic  color  components. 

Another  feature  consists  in  the  distortion  of  the  spatial  configura- 
tion without  fragmentation  of  the  objects — in  placing  disconnected 
objects  side  by  side.  Another  type  of  distortion  consists  in  empha- 
sizing certain  aspects  of  the  object  which  are  commonly  considered 
to  be  unpleasant.  This  may  result  in  grotesque,  ugly,  or  fear-inspiring 
effects,  as  for  example  in  many  of  Grosz's  drawings.  In  using  such 
an  expression  as  "ugly,"  I  do  not  refer  to  the  artistic  merits  of  a 
painting.  To  represent  ugliness  is  just  as  legitimate  a  function  of  art 
as  to  represent  something  which  may  be  called  pretty.  Othello's  deed 
was  certainly  ugly,  yet  is  the  subject  of  a  great  piece  of  literature. 

Another  frequent  feature  in  both  modern  and  psychotic  products 
is  the  tendency  toward  the  fantastic,  the  eerie,  the  mystical,  and 
toward  dreamlike  symbolism.  Examples  are  certain  paintings  of 
Chagall,  Miro,  Dali,  Tanguy,  and  many  others.  Another  feature  is 
the  tendency  to  use  primitive  perspective  or  to  mix  different  per- 
spectives, presenting  an  object  from  all  sides  at  the  same  time.  This 
is  not  to  be  confused  with  the  primitive  way  in  which  different  per- 
spectives were  used  by  some  early  Renaissance  painters. 

All  these  characteristics,  from  the  point  of  view  of  psychology,  can 
be  interpreted  as  the  manifestation  of  a  central  trend:  withdrawal 
from  the  world  as  perceived  through  the  sense  organs,  and  substi- 
tuting for  it  a  newly  created,  different  kind  of  world.  Of  course, 
almost  every  artist,  unlike  a  photographer,  substitutes  for  the  mere 
reproduction  of  the  world  of  senses  his  own  interpretation  of  his 
object.  The  mildest  forms  of  this  tendency  are  simplification,  omis- 
ion,  and  emphasis,  utilized  to  a  greater  or  lesser  degree  by  artists  of 
all  periods.  This  reinterpretation,  however,  goes  much  farther  in 
contemporary  painting  than  in  the  works  of  most  great  masters  of 
the  past.  The  great  freedom  of  reinterpretation  of  the  environment 
as  perceived  by  our  senses  is  characteristic  of  the  contemporary 
painter.  Everything  which  appears  ephemeral  and  nonessential  is 
omitted  and  certain  fundamentals  are  emphasized,  as  in  the  post- 
impressionist  paintings  of  Van  Gogh  or  Cezanne. 

The  next  step  in  this  direction  is  abstraction,  which  may  go  as  far 
as  reducing  the  object  to  its  simplest  geometric  outlines.  Or  the  ne- 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  349 

gation  of  a  real  world  of  senses  may  manifest  itself  in  distortion. 
This  is  usually  not  a  simple  negation  of  the  world  as  it  is;  it  often 
has  a  hostile  component;  it  expresses  an  angry  denjal  of  the  world 
as  it  is  commonly  perceived.  For  the  psychologist  this  emphasis  on 
the  grotesque,  or  what  one  ordinarily  would  call  unpleasant,  is  a 
clear  confession  of  resentful  rejection.  Even  stronger  rejection  is 
expressed  in  the  completely  objectless  paintings.  Only  the  very  basic 
components  of  the  visual  universe  are  retained — color  and  line, 
light  and  dark.  From  these  basic  elements  the  artist  creates  a  new 
view  of  a  spatial  world  which  contains  no  real  objects.  The  cubist 
revolution  contained  both  trends:  the  denial  of  the  world  as  it  is 
along  with  an  even  stronger  motivational  force  to  rearrange  the 
fragmented  parts  of  objects  in  a  new,  seemingly  wanton  but  really 
highly  consistent  manner.  It  is  as  if  the  artist  would  challenge  the 
creator  and  prove  that  he  too  can  create  a  world  according  to  his 
own  system. 

As  I  said  before,  every  artist  creates  his  own  world.  The  question 
is  how  much  he  retains  of  these  actual  elements  as  they  are  per- 
ceived by  the  senses.  Most  contemporary  artists  go  much  farther 
than  their  predecessors,  with  the  exception  of  the  primitives,  in  uti- 
lizing for  the  reconstruction  of  the  world  only  the  most  basic  ele- 
ments, such  as  lines  and  colors,  and  disregarding  what  might  be 
called  the  incidental  combination  of  lines,  forms,  and  colors  as  they 
appear  in  the  environment. 

It  is  like  transposing  a  melody  from  one  key  to  another.  The 
great  contemporary  painters,  such  as  Braque  and  Picasso,  use  the 
same  artistic  skill  with  which  the  old  masters  represented  the  real 
world  we  live  in,  to  transform  this  world  according  to  a  consistent 
formula  of  their  own.  In  the  work  of  one  of  the  forerunners  of  the 
era,  Modigliani,  the  recreative  urge  is  the  strongest.  He  is  really  not 
so  much  a  revolutionary  as  a  reformer.  Modigliani  gives  expression 
to  his  reforming  urge  in  a  consistent,  longitudinal  distortion  of  pro- 
portions and  bilateral  symmetry.  This  has  sometimes  been  misin- 
terpreted as  a  mannerism.  In  reality  it  is  but  inner  consistency  in 
distortion.  Otherwise  Modigliani  retains  much  of  the  technique  of 
the  old  masters  and  even  has  a  flavor  of  the  Renaissance  in  his  work. 

Denial  and  radical  re-creation  of  the  world  of  the  senses  is  one 


350  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

of  the  all-pervasive  keynotes  in  contemporary  art.  The  "re-creator" 
of  the  world  sometimes  uses  technological  motifs,  as  does,  for  ex- 
ample, Leger.  It  appears  as  if  the  artist  would  envy  the  engineer  who 
has  actually  succeeded  in  reshaping  the  surface  of  the  globe  and  in 
superimposing  upon  the  work  of  nature  a  new,  technologically  cre- 
ated, man-made  world.  Another  way  of  creating  a  completely  new 
world  populated  with  dreamlike  symbols  is  prevalent  in  the  work  of 
Miro  and  Tanguy. 

We  see,  then,  that  the  denial  of  the  real  world  of  objects  is  a  well- 
nigh  universal  characteristic  of  contemporary  art.  It  is  not  merely 
a  reinterpretation  of  the  world — this  is  universal  in  every  art — but 
a  fundamental  transformation  combined  with  an  aggressive  denial 
of  the  objects  in  the  form  they  are  commonly  perceived.  The  ways 
and  means  of  this  re-creation  are  widely  different,  according  to  the 
inclination  and  personality  of  the  painter.  The  emphasis  may  be 
more  on  either  denial,  rejection  and  ridicule,  or  on  magic  re-crea- 
tion. In  some  nonobjective  painters,  for  example,  Mondrian,  the 
nihilistic  rejection  of  everything  which  even  reminds  one  of  the  real 
world,  is  the  main  issue.  Ridicule  of  any  order  or  reason  is  outstand- 
ing in  Dadaism,  as  if  the  more  unexpected  and  the  more  random 
the  juxtaposition  of  the  elements,  the  better  the  collage.  Since  every- 
body retains  in  himself  a  residue  of  childish  revolt  against  the  obli- 
gation to  be  orderly  and  sensible,  this  type  of  repudiation  of  order 
and  reason  has  a  secret  appeal  similar  to  Freud's  explanation  of  the 
so-called  nonsense  jokes. 

The  question  arises :  is  this  trend  in  contemporary  art — to  reject 
and  to  remodel  the  surrounding  world — unique?  Some  students  of 
aesthetics  will  have  a  ready  answer!  These  features  are  not  at  all 
characteristic  of  contemporary  art  alone — they  are  present  in  every 
form  of  art  and  literature.  No  real  artist  ever  tries  to  give  merely  a 
faithful  reproduction  of  reality.  The  specific  creative  act  consists 
precisely  in  the  artist's  attempt  to  re-create  in  his  own  manner  the 
surrounding  world.  This  re-creative  urge  may  manifest  itself  in  many 
different  ways  and  is  present  even  in  the  realist  painter  and  writer. 
It  has  often  been  emphasized  that  the  great  artist  reproduces  the 
essence  of  the  subject.  A  Rembrandt  portrait  of  an  old  man,  while 
it  represents  one  specific  person,  at  the  same  time  condenses  into  the 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  351 

work  the  universal  features  of  all  the  old  men  who  ever  lived  and 
will  live  in  the  future.  The  presentation  of  the  universal,  the  time- 
less, the  essential,  has  long  been  considered  one  of  the  main  accom- 
plishments of  the  artist.  The  conventional  formulation  of  aesthetics, 
that  the  writer  and  the  artist  express  the  universal  through  the  spe- 
cific, the  abstract  through  the  concrete,  applies  also  to  impressionist 
art.  The  meadow  in  an  impressionist  painting  is  not  a  meadow  in 
general,  but  a  meadow  at  3:30  on  an  afternoon  in  June. 

Another  creative  accomplishment  of  the  artist  is  the  condensation 
into  one  concrete  example  of  the  significant  interrelationships  among 
the  objects  depicted.  A  street  of  Paris  by  Pissarro  is  more  than  the 
representation  of  one  special  geographical  location  in  the  metrop- 
olis; it  reflects  the  spirit  of  contemporary  Paris  through  the  fleet- 
ing impression  made  upon  the  onlooker.  The  ensemble,  the  tree- 
lined  sidewalks,  the  advertisements,  the  color  and  attire  of  the 
milling  crowd,  all  together  have  a  common  denominator  expressing 
something  essentially  characteristic  of  the  city.  The  artist's  creation 
is  to  condense  all  this  in  one  composition,  not  merely  photographic, 
yet  a  faithful  reproduction  of  one  fleeting  impression.  In  a  sense  it 
is  much  more  realistic  than  a  photograph  because  the  visual  im- 
pression is  a  highly  selective  act  which  emphasizes,  distorts,  and 
omits  various  details.  The  camera  can  never  show  how  reality  actu- 
ally reflects  itself  in  the  onlooker. 

When  technical  terms  enter  into  common  usage,  they  have  a 
tendency  to  lose  their  original  meaning.  After  they  are  in  use  for  a 
while,  the  terms  begin  to  live  their  own  lives,  gradually  developing 
new  connotations  and  thus  becoming  a  source  of  confusion.  This  is 
precisely  what  happened  to  the  words  "impressionism"  and  "ex- 
pressionism." Nothing  is  further  from  the  truth  than  "the  saying" 
that  the  impressionist  represents  the  outer  world,  the  expressionist 
his  inner  world.  The  impressionist  expresses  something  extremely 
subjective  just  as  does  the  expressionist  painter.  Both  represent, 
although  in  very  different  ways,  the  manner  in  which  the  world  affects 
them.  Both  express  their  relation  to  the  world.  Negation  of  the  world 
is  as  much  an  expression  of  a  relation  as  is  acceptance.  The  real 
difference  between  the  two  schools  lies  in  their  acceptance  or  rejec- 
tion of  the  world.  The  impressionist  painters  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 


352  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tury  had  a  warm  attachment  to  the  world.  Their  pictures  express 
more  than  acceptance — they  express  both  curiosity  and  adoration. 
And  this  adoring  love  extends  not  only  to  sunshine,  but  to  the  rain, 
the  fog,  the  meadow,  the  city  street,  the  boite,  the  stage,  the  delicate 
ankles  of  the  ballerina,  and  the  robust  petty  bourgeois  in  the  garden 
restaurant.  What  the  impressionist  represents  is  not  the  real  world 
of  objects  but  his  warm  acceptance  of  this  world  to  which  he  trust- 
ingly exposes  himself  and  which  he  takes  in  faithfully  and  lovingly. 
To  be  sure,  the  primary  interest  of  the  impressionist  era  is  in  the 
man-made  world:  the  street,  the  park,  the  sidewalk  cafe,  the  dance 
hall,  the  beach  with  umbrellas;  and  not  so  much  the  forest,  the  wild 
mountain  peak,  or  the  stormy  sea — not  unadulterated  nature,  which 
was  the  preferred  topic  of  the  romantics.  The  confident,  urbane 
Western  European  looked  with  love  and  pride  upon  his  own  creation. 
Paris  became  a  principal  theme  as  the  pinnacle  of  this  individual- 
istic, enterprising  world — of  a  world  which  believed  in  unlimited 
progress,  in  reason  and  science,  and  in  whose  hierarchy  of  values 
art,  literature,  and  music,  the  basic  sciences  and  philosophy,  as  in 
Plato's  Republic,  occupied  the  highest  rank.  This  intellectual  elite 
had  its  own  exclusive  society,  which  it  exposed  to  the  masses  in  the 
cafe  and  the  literary  cabaret.  The  public,  particularly  the  well-to-do 
middle  class,  participated  vicariously  in  this  life,  looking  through 
the  peepholes  of  literature,  painting,  and  the  stage.  Their  own  pre- 
occupation with  industry  and  commerce,  which  supplied  the  ma- 
terial foundation  of  this  progressing  world,  appeared  to  them  a 
humdrum  existence  the  main  purpose  of  which,  at  least  in  theory, 
was  to  make  this  exalted  aesthetic  hedonism  of  the  spiritual  elite 
possible.  In  practice,  of  course,  this  existence  was  mostly  meager 
indeed,  but  in  theory  material  wealth  was  there  to  serve  the  spir- 
itual progress  of  knowledge,  art,  literature,  and  the  art  of  living; 
money  was  not  an  end  in  itself. 

Then  suddenly  in  the  summer  of  1914,  in  a  Balkan  slum  district, 
the  fatal  explosion  took  place  and  the  bubble  of  this  aesthetic  culture 
burst.  The  European's  crude  awakening  was  a  sudden  and  over- 
whelming one.  The  real  forces  of  the  world — industry,  the  military 
machine,  and  diplomacy — which  until  now  had  modestly  and  tac- 
itly remained  in  the  background  and  ceded  the  arena  of  public  life 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  353 

to  art,  science,  the  stage,  and  literature,  took  over  the  scene  of  his- 
tory overnight.  "Blood  and  gold"  are  ruling  the  world,  lamented 
the  poet  Andreas  Ady,  the  Hungarian  Verlaine,  who  sipped  his 
absinthe  in  the  sidewalk  cafes  of  Paris  and  Budapest,  and  was  one 
of  the  most  sensitive  exponents  of  decadence.  With  one  stroke  the 
painters  and  poets  showed  themselves  to  be  nothing  but  the  luxuries 
of  a  wealthy,  carefree,  and  peaceful  era;  the  industrial  producer, 
the  soldier,  and  the  diplomat  regained  the  leading  role  from  which 
they  were  removed  for  a  short  and  happy  period  of  history.  And 
the  exponents  of  the  aesthetic  ideology,  thus  deprived  of  their 
raison  d'etre,  turned  around  and  revolted  against  a  world  which 
showed  up  the  futility  of  their  esoteric  existence.  Their  answer  was 
at  first  angry  indignation  and  scorn,  and  then  total  rejection  of  the 
world  which  now  so  convincingly  disclosed  its  sordid  realities.  "The 
real  world  is  ugly,  not  worth-while — why  give  it  the  consideration 
to  depict  it  as  it  is!"  Not  the  pleasing  superstructure  but  the  ugly 
skeleton  became  the  popular  subject.  "We,  the  painters  and  writers, 
shall  show  you  how  repugnant  and  ridiculous  the  world  is  and  we 
shall  rebuild  it  according  to  our  own  magic  formula."  It  was  not 
said  in  these  words,  but  this  is  what  the  Blue  Riders  in  Munich, 
the  futurists  in  Italy,  the  Dadaists  in  Switzerland,  the  Boheme  of  the 
Cafe  du  Dome,  professed.  The  futurist  Marinetti,  who  also  invented 
the  symbol  of  fascism,  announced  at  a  demonstration  in  Paris: 
"Destroy  syntax!  Sabotage  the  adjective!"  And  in  Berlin,  at  the 
opening  of  a  fall  exhibition  of  paintings:  "Destroy  the  museums! 
Burn  down  the  libraries!"  1  Now  the  aesthetic  vibrations  of  the 
moment,  so  removed  from  the  actual  brutal  facts  of  life,  were  no 
longer  a  worthy  subject  of  art  Now  the  desperate  efforts  of  Schnitz- 
ler's  Anatole  to  endow  his  love  affairs  with  suburban  ingenues  with 
the  esoteric  illusions  by  which  this  anemic  Vienna  playboy  tried 
to  enrich  his  bland,  uneventful  life,  suddenly  belonged  to  the  era 
of  yesterday,  which  had  lost  all  its  meaning  in  the  dynamic  present. 
To  continue  to  indulge  in  the  sentimental  contemplation  of  the 
boulevard,  extracting  from  it  all  shades  of  subjective  variations 
of  mood,  was  no  longer  appropriate  in  a  Paris  which  had  just  re- 
cently been  saved  by  its  taxi  drivers  from  military  invasion.  Im- 
pressionism, the  hedonistic  exploitation  of  the  leisurely  moment, 


354  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

became  just  as  incompatible  with  the  spirit  of  the  day  as  a  jazz 
band  at  a  funeral.  And  thus  almost  overnight,  in  the  second  decade 
of  the  twentieth  century,  this  loving  acceptance  of  the  world 
changed  into  its  opposite,  into  an  angry  rejection. 

All  this,  of  course,  did  not  come  so  suddenly  as  it  would  appear 
at  first  sight.  About  the  turn  of  the  century  the  suspicion  of  having 
been  double-crossed  began  to  grow  in  the  European  mind.  At  first 
only  the  artists  and  writers,  the  forerunners  of  their  time,  gave  ex- 
pression to  a  change  of  attitude.  What  the  artist  anticipated  by 
presentiment,  the  rest  of  us  realized  a  few  years  later.  For  us  it  was 
in  August  of  1914  that  this  period  of  Western  history  came  to  an 
end.  For  the  insensitive  it  appeared  as  a  sudden  collapse;  in  reality, 
it  was  a  gradual  disintegration.  Indeed,  the  collapse  of  nineteenth- 
century  ideology,  its  confidence  in  steady  progress,  its  aesthetic, 
hedonistic  value  system  in  which  the  arts,  music,  literature,  and 
pure  science  occupied  a  supreme  position,  and  above  all,  the  un- 
questioned loving  acceptance  of  the  world  as  man  made  it,  was 
not  as  sudden  as  it  appeared  to  the  average  man.  The  signs  of 
decline,  presaging  the  apocalypse,  were  numerous  and  steadily 
growing.  The  truth  that  every  development  contains  the  germs  of 
its  own  destruction,  and  that  these  latent  destructive  forces  increase 
as  the  trend  approaches  its  pinnacle  can  be  demonstrated  in  the 
literature  and  arts  at  the  close  of  the  century.  In  literature  it  ap- 
peared as  the  decadent  movement.  In  the  poetry  of  Verlaine, 
Hofmannsthal,  and  Rilke,  the  enjoyment  of  the  moment  was  mixed 
with  a  bittersweet  melancholy,  a  wistful  preoccupation  with  yester- 
day, an  undertone  of  futility.  Hauser  characterizes  this  decadent 
component  in  impressionistic  literature  which  was  prominent  in 
Vienna: 

The  Viennese  represent  the  purest  form  of  the  impressionism 
which  forgoes  all  resistance  to  the  stream  of  experience.  Perhaps 
it  is  the  ancient  and  tired  culture  of  this  city,  the  lack  of  all  active 
national  politics,  and  the  great  part  played  in  literary  life  by 
foreigners,  especially  Jews,  which  gives  Viennese  impressionism 
its  peculiarly  subtle  and  passive  character.  This  is  the  art  of  the 
sons  of  rich  bourgeois,  the  expression  of  the  joyless  hedonism  of 
that  "second  generation"  which  lives  on  the  fruits  of  its  fathers' 
work.  They  are  nervous  and  melancholy,  tired  and  aimless,  skep- 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  355 

tical  and  ironical  about  themselves,  these  poets  of  exquisite  moods 
which  evaporate  in  a  trice  and  leave  nothing  behind  but  the  feel- 
ing of  evanescence,  of  having  missed  one's  opportunities,  and  the 
consciousness  of  being  unfit  for  life.2 

In  England  the  literary  witticism,  the  provocative  aphorism 
which  challenged  both  reason  and  Victorian  complacency,  are 
more  virile  portents  of  the  same  ideological  revolt.  In  Sweden 
Strindberg,  and  in  Germany  Wedekind,  were  exposing  the  less 
savory  features  of  man. 

The  detachment  from  the  world  of  reality  and  the  turning  to- 
ward the  mystical  symbolism  of  the  unconscious  is  seen  also  in  the 
symbolic  poetry  of  Mallarme  and  the  symbolic  paintings  of  Redon. 
The  first  signs  of  the  urge  to  replace  the  world  with  another  more 
consistent  than  the  old,  but  still  retaining  the  semblance  of  reality, 
appear  in  the  postimpressionistic  paintings  of  Van  Gogh  and 
Cezanne.  The  new  Rousseauism  of  Gauguin,  his  return  to  primi- 
tive culture  and  unimproved  nature,  is  another  form  of  repudiation 
of  the  Western  world.  The  most  evolutionary  event  in  these  ideo- 
logical developments,  however,  came  just  about  the  turn  of  the 
century,  when  Freud  proposed  his  theory  of  the  unconscious  mind. 

In  both  art  and  literature,  the  estrangement  from  the  world  as 
it  appears  was  progressing  relentlessly.  With  his  emphasis  on  essen- 
tials, the  skeletal  structure  of  the  body  which  is  the  same  in  every- 
one, the  contemporary  painter  tacitly  expresses  his  scorn  for  the 
credulity  of  the  impressionist,  who  was  so  easily  taken  in  by  the 
pleasing  surface,  by  clothing,  by  facial  expression,  by  the  skin  and 
the  muscles.  These  only  hide  the  basic  realities  of  the  body,  the 
viscera  and  the  bony  structure  which  can  best  be  reproduced  by 
simple  geometric  configurations.  All  the  surface  manifestations  of 
the  world,  all  the  aesthetic  bric-a-brac  by  which  the  ferocious  ani- 
mal, man,  tries  to  hide  his  real  nature  were  to  be  disregarded. 
Blood  and  gold,  and  we  may  add,  the  blast  furnace,  are  ruling  the 
world.  The  hypocritical  and  anemic  aestheticism  of  the  last  century 
was  a  self-deception  in  which  the  decadent  bourgeois  could  for  a 
little  while  indulge  himself,  so  long  as  he  was  not  challenged  by 
the  underground  forces  of  society.  As  soon  as  the  great  masses 
of  humanity  became  mobilized  and  clamored  for  a  place  in  the  sun, 


356  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

this  decadent  aesthetic  bubble  disappeared  like  the  foam  on  a 
wave  in  a  stormy  ocean.  Writes  Ortega  y  Gasset,  the  visionary 
Spanish  philosopher: 

The  mass  crushes  beneath  it  everything  that  is  different,  every- 
thing that  is  excellent,  individual,  qualified,  and  select.  Anybody 
who  is  not  like  everybody,  who  does  not  think  like  everybody, 
runs  the  risk  of  being  eliminated.3 

In  the  dynamic  world  of  Hitler,  Mussolini,  and  Stalin,  and  in  the 
era  of  industrial  mass  production,  the  impressionistic  and  indi- 
vidualistic cultivation  of  the  moment  has  no  place.  This  is  a  century 
of  action  and  not  of  idle  contemplation.  From  illusions,  from  the 
ever-changing,  evanescent  impressions  of  the  moment,  we  must  re- 
turn to  the  basic  essentials,  not  only  in  social  life  but  also  in  art 
and  literature,  no  matter  whether  they  are  pleasing  or  not. 

This  is  what  the  artists  and  writers  of  the  early  twentieth  century 
express  not  in  so  many  words,  not  in  theory,  but  in  their  own  me- 
dium of  communication.  And  yet  it  was  difficult,  if  not  impossible, 
for  the  artists  and  writers  to  change  their  outlook  at  a  moment's 
notice.  They  came  into  conflict  with  themselves,  having  to  repudi- 
ate everything  they  professed  yesterday  and  to  reject  a  world  in 
which  they  grew  up.  This  was,  after  all,  the  only  world  they  knew, 
the  world  in  which  they  themselves  were  rooted.  The  most  signifi- 
cant features  of  contemporary  art  and  literature  can  be  understood 
only  when  one  realizes  that  the  proponents  of  expressionism,  ab- 
stractionism, and  surrealism  belong  to  this  generation  of  transition. 
Their  deep-seated  conflict,  their  division  of  soul,  accounts  for  those 
features  with  which  the  psychiatrist  is  so  well  acquainted,  and 
which  are  reminiscent  of  psychopathology.  They  could  not  merely 
reject  the  external  world  because  this  world  had  already  made  a 
deep  imprint  upon  their  own  personality;  they  had  to  repudiate  a 
part  of  the  self,  that  part  which  psychoanalysis  calls  the  rational 
conscious  ego,  which  is  nothing  but  the  imprint  of  the  external 
world  upon  the  original  unorganized  mass  of  impulses  and  desires 
which  Freud  called  the  id.  The  conscious  ego  is  the  internal  repre- 
sentative of  the  world  of  reality  as  against  the  original  basic  in- 
stinctual forces.  It  is  the  ego  which  demands  the  adjustment  of  the 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  357 

subjective  impulses  to  the  world.  Since  the  rational  ego  of  this  gen- 
eration was  the  heritage  of  the  nineteenth  century,  their  rebellion 
forced  them  to  disavow  this  part  of  their  own  self.  "The  ego  must 
be  extirpated  from  literature,"  demanded  Marinetti  in  Milan.4  The 
result  was  an  elemental  break-through,  from  the  unconscious,  of 
the  primitive  disorganized  impulses  of  the  id.  And  this  is  why  the 
unconscious  mind  as  it  manifests  itself  in  dreams,  in  psychopatho- 
logical  symptoms,  and  in  the  uncontrolled  train  of  thoughts  during 
free  association,  became  the  dominant  note  of  contemporary  art 
and  literature.  The  unconscious  broke  through  most  clearly  in  the 
symbolism  and  dreamlike  products  of  surrealistic  paintings.  The 
unconscious  reveals  itself  directly  in  dreams,  and  dreams  are  pri- 
marily products  of  visual  fantasy.  Therefore  surrealistic  painting  is 
a  most  appropriate  representation  of  unconscious  mental  activity. 
Rejection  of  reality  and  rebellion  against  it,  however,  do  not  con- 
stitute a  static  mental  condition;  they  represent  no  final  solution. 
Not  even  a  psychotic  can  remain  in  a  state  of  unrelieved  revolt.  He 
rejects  the  world  but  he  must  rebuild  it  according  to  his  own 
imagery  in  the  form  of  illusions  and  hallucinations.  Every  person 
does  the  same  in  his  dreams  and  daydreams.  In  fantasy  we  can 
correct  those  aspects  of  the  world  which  we  are  not  ready  to  ac- 
cept and  which  interfere  with  our  subjective  desires  that  are  not 
adapted  to  reality.  The  similarity  between  the  mental  processes 
of  the  psychotics  and  the  dreams  of  normal  persons  has  long  been 
recognized.  Psychotics  in  a  sense  live  continuously  in  a  dream 
world;  a  healthy  person  indulges  in  such  wishful  distortions  of 
reality  only  for  a  brief  moment  when  the  organism  withdraws 
from  the  environment  and  is  relieved  from  the  strenuous  task  of 
conforming  to  the  unalterable  and  sometimes  very  disturbing  facts 
of  reality.  Every  dream  is  a  rejection  of  the  undesirable  aspects  of 
the  world,  but  it  is  also  an  attempt  to  make  the  world  more  accept- 
able. In  order  to  accomplish  this,  the  dreamer  regresses  to  more 
primitive  forms  of  mental  activity.  Rational  thinking  is  expressed 
in  words  and  is  a  highly  advanced  form  of  mental  activity  which 
is  adjusted  to  reality.  Everyone  has  to  acquire  the  ability  to  think 
rationally  during  the  process  of  intellectual  maturation.  In  order  to 
return  to  wishful  thinking,  the  shackles  of  conscious  verbal  thinking 


358  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

must  be  discarded.  In  the  dream  one  resumes  the  more  infantile 
forms  of  mental  activity  which  are  characterized  by  magic  and 
wish  fulfillment.  In  dreams  the  ordinary  rules  of  logic  are  aban- 
doned, the  unconscious  does  not  know  the  limitations  of  time  and 
space.  The  unorthodoxy  of  space  relations  in  contemporary  draw- 
ings and  paintings  most  appropriately  expresses  not  the  empirical 
space  which  is  conveyed  to  us  by  our  senses,  but  the  type  of  space 
which  appears  in  our  dreams.  The  role  of  symbols  is  similar.  Pic- 
torial symbols  are  often  based  on  vague  similarities  and  are  there- 
fore in  sharp  contrast  with  the  precise  distinction  of  meaning 
conveyed  by  words. 

This  affinity  of  contemporary  art  to  the  unconscious  mind,  par- 
ticularly dream  life,  explains  certain  similarities  between  paintings 
of  schizophrenics  and  those  of  contemporary  artists.  This  similarity 
has  been  noted  by  various  psychiatrists  and  also  by  artists.  Some 
of  them,  like  Dubuffet,  derived  great  stimulation  from  studying  the 
drawings  of  schizophrenic  patients.  The  schizophrenic  also  with- 
draws his  interest  from  a  world  which  has  become  unpalatable 
and  replaces  his  realistic  perceptions  with  the  wishful  creation  of 
his  own  fantasy,  his  delusions,  illusions,  and  hallucinations.  In 
dreams,  as  in  the  fantasy  products  of  schizophrenics,  the  uncon- 
scious mind  reveals  itself  in  its  full  nakedness. 

This  comparison  of  contemporary  paintings  with  the  products  of 
schizophrenics  should  not  be  interpreted  as  an  evaluation  of  their 
artistic  merits.  There  are  gifted  psychotics  just  as  there  are  gifted 
neurotics.  If  Lombroso  was  right  in  maintaining  that  between 
genius  and  insanity  there  is  only  a  narrow  dividing  line,  insanity 
certainly  does  not  exclude  artistic  talent.  There  are  several  exam- 
ples of  great  artists  suffering  from  major  psychiatric  conditions. 
Neither  does  this  comparison  mean  that  modern  artists  are  mentally 
disturbed.  To  my  knowledge,  the  mental  health  of  modern  painters 
is  no  different  from  that  of  older  masters.  We  find  among  them 
mentally  healthy  persons  and  neurotics  as  well  as  borderline  psy- 
chotics. Their  mental  health  or  illness  certainly  cannot  account  for 
those  features  in  their  work  which  I  am  considering  here.  The  simi- 
larity is  based  on  the  close  affinity  of  contemporary  art  to  the  deep 
unconscious  layers  of  the  personality  which  both  contemporary 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  359 

artists  and  schizophrenics  reveal  directly.  In  addition  to  these  simi- 
larities there  are  also  great  and  significant  differences.  The  good 
contemporary  artists  attempt  to  communicate  their  unconscious 
processes  in  an  organized  fashion.  The  psychotic's  paintings,  on 
the  other  hand,  show  disorganization,  mostly  a  flight  from  the 
world,  with  much  less  constructive  effort  to  recapture  the  lost  con- 
tact with  the  world.  The  attempt  to  negotiate  a  new  kind  of  rela- 
tion to  the  world  is  the  main  striving  of  the  modern  artist. 

The  withdrawal  from  the  realistic  world  of  objects  and  the  return 
to  the  nonrational  magic  world  of  symbols  and  wishful  distortions 
is  unavoidably  accompanied  by  confusion  and  anxiety.  Disturbed 
by  confusion  and  anxiety,  the  individual  tries  to  recapture  the  world 
by  reshaping  it  in  fantasy.  As  we  have  seen,  contemporary  art 
attempts  this  in  a  radical  way  by  magic  and  symbolism  and  by 
return  to  the  basic  elements  of  line  and  color.  Some  of  these  paint- 
ings express  little  more  than  utter  confusion,  but  mostly  there  is 
an  attempt  to  bring  order  into  chaos.  In  cubistic  paintings  both 
trends  are  there:  the  first  impression  is  that  of  complete  disorder 
but,  on  further  contemplation,  gradually  a  fascinating  and  novel 
principle  of  organization  can  be  discovered.  In  other  contemporary 
paintings,  as  in  Mondrian's  work,  the  confusion  is  completely 
avoided  by  offering  a  simple  geometric  configuration  and  the  har- 
mony of  pure  colors  and  lines.  But  the  artist  can  achieve  this 
perfect  order  and  harmony  only  by  ignoring  the  rich  variety  of  the 
world  that  surrounds  him.  This  is  an  orderly  but  badly  impover- 
ished world.  The  artist  tries  to  recapture  mastery  over  the  very  little 
which  remains  after  he  repudiates  reality.  A  white  square  on  a 
black  background  exhibited  by  Malevitch  in  1913  was  the  ultimate 
logical  consequence  of  this  defeatist  trend  to  ignore  the  surround- 
ing universe,  which  had  become  so  unpalatable.  What  a  contrast 
between  this  geometric  art,  essentially  a  defeatist  attempt  to  master 
the  nothing,  and  the  magnificent  attempts  of  a  Cezanne  or  a  Van 
Gogh  to  introduce  into  the  real  world  new  principles  of  visual 
organization! 

As  mentioned  before,  in  every  art  the  world  is  re-created  to  some 
degree,  but  the  artist  mostly  attempts  a  more  or  less  realistic  re- 
creation.  In  contemporary  art  the  re-creation  is  more  radical  than 


360  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  any  previous  cultural  era.  It  is  the  diametric  opposite  of  impres- 
sionism, the  last  and  most  advanced  phase  of  a  cultural  develop- 
ment which  started  with  the  Renaissance,  when  European  man 
became  liberated  from  the  medieval  restrictions  upon  free  inquiry 
and  began  to  discover  the  world  around  him.  The  uniformity  and 
rigidity  of  Byzantine  paintings  gradually  gave  place  to  a  hitherto 
unknown  freedom  to  see  the  world  as  it  is.  The  background  be- 
came more  and  more  realistic  as  well  as  the  facial  expression  and 
the  body.  In  all  fields  of  mental  activity  the  trend  was  the  same. 
Man  began  to  explore  the  earth,  then  the  celestial  bodies,  the  ani- 
mal and  human  organism,  and  finally  the  self  and  the  society  in 
which  he  lives.  In  art  this  same  trend  toward  exploration  and  mas- 
tery of  the  world  remained  consistent  until  the  end  of  the  nine- 
teenth century.  The  realistic  representation  of  distinct  objects  was 
followed  by  the  impressionist  discovery  of  how  to  reproduce  the 
medium  between  the  objects.  Light  and  air  and  the  representation 
of  the  world  in  its  totality,  in  the  interaction  of  all  its  constituent 
parts,  became  the  aim  of  painting. 

Hauser,  in  his  Social  History  of  Art,  maintains  that  the  first  real 
ideological  revolution  since  the  Renaissance  occurred  in  the  twen- 
tieth century.  The  consistent  trend  toward  the  exploration  and 
acceptance  of  the  world  was  not  interrupted  until  our  present  era, 
in  spite  of  the  fact  that  many  of  the  innovations  in  science,  art, 
and  literature  were  accepted  only  after  a  period  of  repudiation.  Yet 
Kepler's  astronomical  theory  was  only  a  step  further  in  the  direc- 
tion initially  taken  by  Galileo  and  Copernicus,  and  Einstein's  phys- 
ics was  a  step  beyond  Newton.  In  art,  impressionism  was  at  first 
violently  rejected,  and  yet  it  was  but  the  last  step  in  the  same 
consistent  trend  toward  the  pictorial  discovery  of  the  world  which 
started  with  Giotto. 

The  first  actual  reversal  of  trend  against  this  steadily  progressing 
realism  and  rationalism  is  what  we  are  witnessing  today.  It  ap- 
peared in  literature  as  a  revolt  against  reason  in  the  use  of  words 
according  to  their  acoustic  qualities  instead  of  their  meaning,  in 
irrational  and  symbolic  stage  productions,  and  finally  in  the  direct 
representation  of  the  unconscious  in  free  association.  In  painting  it 
appeared  as  the  withdrawal  from  representing  the  world  of  reality, 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  361 

in  the  distortion  of  spatial  relations  and  the  objects  themselves. 
The  real  revolution  consists,  however,  in  the  repudiation  of  the 
loving  acceptance  of  the  world  of  reality  and  in  the  revolt  against 
reason.  In  politics  the  same  trend  manifests  itself  in  the  totali- 
tarian emphasis  on  irrational  motivations,  on  violence,  vengeance, 
and  greed,  on  the  praise  of  a  dangerous  life.  It  appears  in  the  form 
of  political  adventure  and  the  abolition  of  freedom  of  thought  and 
inquiry. 

Indeed,  looking  upon  current  ideological  trends  from  this  per- 
spective offers  a  gloomy  picture.  Is  this,  however,  a  precise  inter- 
pretation of  the  prevailing  cultural  trend?  It  is  unquestionably  true 
that  this  century  began  with  a  revolt  against  the  nineteenth-century 
value  system,  which  had  remained  essentially  the  same  since  the 
Renaissance.  That  this  revolt  in  literature  and  art  manifested  itself 
in  a  repudiation  of  the  world  of  the  senses  and  of  reason — which 
is  man's  weapon  to  master  the  world — is  also  true.  That  this  revolt 
was  followed  in  art  by  an  attempt  to  re-create  the  external  reality 
by  archaic  unrealistic  and  magic  mental  activities  is  equally  valid. 
And  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  concurrent  fascist  and  com- 
munist developments  in  Eastern  and  Central  Europe  are  the  mani- 
festations of  unbridled  instincts  in  politics.  They  also  have  a  re- 
gressive character  and  are  basically  irrational  and  reactionary 
movements.  The  question  is  how  to  evaluate  all  these  disturbing 
facts  from  the  larger  perspective  of  history.  Are  we  at  the  beginning 
of  a  new  period  of  medieval  obscurantism  in  which  the  individual 
will  lose  all  his  spiritual  and  political  freedom  and,  in  order  to  save 
himself  as  an  individual,  will  have  to  be  content  with  withdrawal 
into  the  archaic  wishful  imagery  of  his  unconscious  mind?  In  his 
fear  and  confusion  will  he  yield  to  some  kind  of  tyranny  and  give 
up  all  further  attempts  to  master  realistically  his  environment  and 
his  fate  by  increasing  his  own  knowledge,  understanding,  and  rea- 
son? Will  he  be  satisfied  with  powerless  protest,  flaunting  his  con- 
tempt of  reason,  ridiculing  the  world,  and  retreating  into  a  dream 
world  of  surrealistic  magic? 

One  can  also  look  upon  these  cultural  developments  in  a  differ- 
ent manner.  The  present  trend  in  art  and  literature  may  reflect  a 
new  step  in  the  exploration  of  the  world:  the  exploration  of  the 


362  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

unconscious.  For  almost  four  centuries  man  turned  his  interest 
outward,  learning  more  about  the  nature  of  the  universe  than  in 
any  other  period  of  history;  he  gradually  translated  his  theoretical 
knowledge  into  a  technological  mastery  over  the  forces  of  nature. 
During  all  these  impressive  accomplishments  of  extroverted  activi- 
ties, he  completely  forgot  the  exploration  of  his  own  self.  He  knew 
of  himself  only  as  much  as  he  wanted  to.  He  built  up  the  illusion 
of  himself  as  a  progressive,  rational,  basically  benign,  and  socially 
minded  personality,  striving  for  truth,  for  the  cultivation  of  beauty, 
and  for  the  realization  of  social  justice.  This  was  taught  in  the  hu- 
manistic gymnasiums  of  the  European  continent  and  in  the  public 
schools  of  England.  Those  writers,  artists,  and  philosophers  who 
challenged  this  rosy  picture  of  man's  personality  were  disregarded 
or  ridiculed  by  the  official  academies  of  culture.  And  the  parents 
and  teachers,  the  intellectual  leaders,  were  alerted  and  on  guard 
against  the  repeated  onslaughts  against  their  own  repressions. 

Their  chief  enemy  was  the  Viennese  neurologist,  Freud,  ostra- 
cized by  the  medical  society  because  of  his  revolutionary  teachings 
concerning  the  role  of  sex  and  the  unconscious  mind  in  the  causa- 
tion of  neurosis.  With  the  outbreak  of  the  First  World  War  the 
self-deceptive,  complacent  ideology  began  to  crumble.  And  after 
the  war,  with  the  collapse  of  the  political  and  economic  structure 
of  Europe,  everything  which  hitherto  was  considered  safe  and 
stable  was  swept  away.  The  controlling  forces  of  the  personality,  in 
order  to  keep  in  check  the  asocial  and  irrational  forces  of  the  un- 
conscious, need  reinforcement  from  the  outside  in  the  form  of 
parental  example,  law  and  police,  the  authority  of  the  state,  the 
teachings  of  the  church  and  the  school.  But  the  disintegrating  po- 
litical and  economic  structure  of  Europe  could  no  longer  supply 
these  external  reinforcements.  The  older  generation  had  failed  in 
the  eyes  of  the  young.  They  were  held  responsible  for  the  fiasco  of 
the  old  system,  whether  it  was  the  constitutional  monarchy,  the 
four-per-cent  rate  of  interest,  the  gold  standard,  which  appeared  to 
be  assured  forever,  or  the  conventional  standards  of  the  professors, 
upheld  by  the  academies  of  the  sciences  and  arts.  The  external 
authorities,  the  living  representatives  of  our  internal  standards, 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  363 

became  discredited,  and  the  unconscious  forces  swept  through  the 
barriers  of  the  conventional  code.  The  unconscious — with  all  its 
elemental  forces,  mysticism,  and  irrationality — arose  to  the  surface. 
It  became  the  principal  object  of  psychology  and  the  social  sci- 
ences, of  art  and  literature,  and  it  dominated  the  internal  political 
life  of  nations  as  well  as  world  politics.  Are  we  witnessing  at  this 
very  moment  a  brief  lull  before  the  storm?  Will  man  be  able  to 
bring  these  unleashed,  destructive  forces  under  his  control  again? 
The  same  question  on  a  smaller  scale  confronts  the  psychoan- 
alyst every  day  in  his  practice.  With  his  therapeutic  technique,  he 
tries  to  bring  the  unconscious  impulses  of  the  patient  to  the  sur- 
face. The  traditional  apprehension  with  which  psychoanalysis  was 
received,  the  fear  that  this  procedure  might  unleash  all  the  asocial 
propensities  of  the  patient,  and  turn  a  hitherto  harmless  neurotic 
into  a  selfish,  ruthless  person,  has  proven  unfounded.  We  have 
learned  just  the  opposite.  Repression,  denial,  hypocritical  self- 
deception,  have  been  inadequate  defenses  against  the  instinctive 
forces  of  man.  The  only  remedy  is  to  make  the  patient  conscious 
of  his  deeper  impulses.  At  first  the  barriers  of  repression  must  be 
overcome  before  a  new  and  more  extended  control  over  the  self 
can  be  obtained.  Not  even  in  a  well-conducted  treatment  does  this 
process  of  self-revelation  always  take  place  without  occasional  dra- 
matic episodes.  When  this  happens  we  say  that  the  patient  is  "act- 
ing out."  From  the  point  of  view  of  history,  the  last  forty  years 
of  Western  civilization  may  be  considered  as  a  brief  episode  of 
acting  out.  Who  can  tell,  however,  whether  or  not  we  are  at  the 
end  of  this  dynamic  but  chaotic  phase  of  cultural  and  political 
history?  One  thing  is  certain,  that  if  and  when  we  have  been  able 
to  develop  new  internal  standards  and  a  new  relation  to  a  world 
which  has  changed  faster  than  our  adaptive  capacity,  a  wiser  and 
more  conscious  humanity  will  arise.  The  chaotic  eruption  of  the 
unconscious  has  already  contributed  new  dynamic  forces  which 
gradually  can  be  brought  under  the  control  of  reason  and  utilized 
constructively.  It  has  already  opened  up  new  avenues  of  artistic 
expression.  From  his  acquaintance  with  the  unconscious  archaic 
layers  of  the  mind,  the  artist,  in  the  same  way  as  the  scientist,  has 


364  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

gained  new  materials  and  techniques  for  expressing  a  new  relation- 
ship to  the  world. 

Freud  was  not  only  the  discoverer  of  the  unconscious  but  also 
the  inventor  of  a  technique  by  which  the  unconscious  forces,  after 
being  mobilized,  can  be  brought  under  the  control  of  the  rational 
mind.  After  the  scientific  mastery  of  the  unconscious,  its  artistic 
mastery  will  follow. 

In  American  contemporary  art  the  trend  toward  reconstruction 
is  more  pronounced  than  the  rebellious  denial  of  the  world  which 
was  so  characteristic  in  the  early  European  developments.  In 
Europe  the  movement  started  as  an  open  rebellion  against  the 
orderly  and  optimistic  approach  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Soon 
after  the  movement  reached  the  shores  of  the  United  States  5  it  lost 
much  of  its  bitter  and  revolutionary  connotation  and  became  influ- 
enced by  the  mechanical  and  reconstructive  spirit  of  an  advanced 
industrial  civilization.  The  effort  to  bring  the  unconscious  under 
rational  control  is  conspicuous  in  the  works  of  many  American 
painters. 

There  is  no  room  at  this  time,  however,  for  complacency.  We 
have  arrived  at  a  crossroads  of  cultural  development.  The  complete 
collapse  of  Western  civilization  or  a  new  positive  acceptance  of  the 
world  and  the  rule  of  reason  are  the  alternatives.  Should  the  out- 
come be  favorable,  we  shall  have  to  come  to  terms  with  the  world 
around  us.  Revolt  and  rejection  of  reality  are  destructive  reac- 
tions and  cannot  represent  a  permanent  solution.  There  is  no  choice 
— the  road  must  eventually  lead  back  to  reality  and  reason.  Life 
is  dependent  upon  the  environment.  It  is  two-way  traffic:  we  ex- 
press ourselves  but  we  also  receive  from  the  environment.  Art 
expresses  the  relationship  of  the  self  to  the  surrounding  world. 
Negation  and  re-creation  of  the  world  with  the  help  of  magic  must 
eventually  yield  to  a  more  realistic  solution.  This  of  necessity  will 
modify  artistic  style  and  expression.  The  naked  unconscious,  as  it 
often  appears  in  contemporary  art,  is  not  a  suitable  way  of  com- 
munication. It  must  go  through  the  prism  of  the  organizing  portion 
of  the  personality,  the  conscious  ego,  in  order  to  become  mean- 
ingful. The  artist  eventually  will  emerge  from  the  surrealistic  de- 
tour through  the  depths  of  the  unconscious  mind  with  a  fresh  point 


The  Psychoanalyst  Looks  at  Contemporary  Art  365 

of  view,  richer,  and  with  a  new  constructive  message  which  he 
cannot  express  in  this  era  of  negation  and  confusion. 


1  Walter  Mehring,  The  Lost  Library,  pp.  129-130. 

2  The  Social  History  of  Art,  Vol.  II,  p.  908. 

3  The  Revolt  of  the  Masses. 

4  Mehring,  op.  cit. 

5  The  Armory  Show  in  New  York  in  1913. 


Part  Four 


Thomas  Mann 


Freud  and  the  Future 


We  are  gathered  here  to  do  honor  to  a  great 
scientist.  And  the  question  may  very  properly  be  raised:  what  justi- 
fies a  man  of  letters  in  assuming  the  role  of  spokesman  on  such 
an  occasion?  Or,  passing  on  the  responsibility  to  the  members  of 
the  learned  society  which  chose  him,  why  should  they  not  have 
selected  one  of  their  own  kind,  a  man  of  science,  rather  than  an 
author,  to  celebrate  in  words  the  birthday  of  their  master?  For  an 
author,  my  friends,  is  a  man  essentially  not  bent  upon  science, 
upon  knowing,  distinguishing,  and  analyzing;  he  stands  for  simple 
creation,  for  doing  and  making,  and  thus  may  be  the  object  of  use- 
ful cognition,  without,  by  his  very  nature,  having  any  competence 
in  it  as  subject.  But  is  it,  perhaps,  that  the  author  in  his  charac- 
ter as  artist,  and  artist  in  the  field  of  the  intellect,  is  especially 
called  to  the  celebration  of  feasts  of  the  mind;  that  he  is  by  nature 
more  a  man  of  feast  days  than  the  scientist  and  man  of  knowledge? 
It  is  not  for  me  to  dispute  such  a  view.  It  is  true,  the  poet  has 
understanding  of  the  feasts  of  life,  understanding  even  of  life  as  a 
feast — and  here  I  am  just  touching,  very  lightly  for  the  moment, 
upon  a  theme  which  may  become  a  main  motif  in  the  chorus  of 

369 


370  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

homage  which  we  are  to  perform  this  evening.  But  it  is  more  likely 
that  the  sponsors  of  this  evening  had  something  else  in  mind  in 
their  choice:  that  is  to  say,  the  solemn  and  novel  confrontation  of 
object  and  subject,  the  object  of  knowledge  with  the  knower — a 
saturnalia,  as  it  were,  in  which  the  knower  and  seer  of  dreams 
himself  becomes,  by  our  act  of  homage,  the  object  of  dreamlike 
penetration.  And  to  such  a  position  I  could  not  object,  either;  par- 
ticularly because  it  strikes  a  chord  capable  in  the  future  of  great 
symphonic  development.  It  will  recur,  more  clearly  accented  and 
fully  instrumented.  For,  unless  I  am  greatly  mistaken,  it  is  just  this 
confrontation  of  object  and  subject,  their  mingling  and  identifica- 
tion, the  resultant  insight  into  the  mysterious  unity  of  Ego  and 
actuality,  destiny  and  character,  doing  and  happening,  and  thus 
into  the  mystery  of  reality  as  an  operation  of  the  psyche — it  is 
just  this  confrontation  that  is  the  alpha  and  omega  of  all  psycho- 
analytical knowledge. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  the  choice  of  an  artist  as  the  encomiast  of  a 
great  scientist  is  a  comment  upon  both.  In  the  first  place,  one  de- 
duces from  it  a  connection  between  the  man  of  genius  we  now 
honor  and  the  world  of  creative  literature;  in  the  second  place,  it 
displays  the  peculiar  relations  between  the  writer  and  the  field  of 
science  whose  declared  and  acknowledged  master  and  creator  the 
other  is.  Now,  the  unique  and  remarkable  thing  about  this  mutual 
close  relation  is  that  it  remained  for  so  long  unconscious — that  is, 
in  that  region  of  the  soul  which  we  have  learned  to  call  the  uncon- 
scious, a  realm  whose  discovery  and  investigation,  whose  conquest 
for  humanity,  are  precisely  the  task  and  mission  of  the  wise  genius 
whose  fame  we  celebrate.  The  close  relation  between  literature  and 
psychoanalysis  has  been  known  for  a  long  time  to  both  sides.  But 
the  solemn  significance  of  this  hour  lies,  at  least  in  my  eyes  and 
as  a  matter  of  personal  feeling,  in  that  on  this  evening  there  is 
taking  place  the  first  official  meeting  between  the  two  spheres,  in 
the  acknowledgment  and  demonstration  of  their  relationship. 

I  repeat  that  the  profound  sympathy  between  the  two  spheres 
had  existed  for  a  long  time  unperceived.  Actually  we  know  that 
Sigmund  Freud,  that  mighty  spirit  in  whose  honor  we  are  gathered 
together,  founder  of  psychoanalysis  as  a  general  method  of  re- 


Freud  and  the  Future  371 

search  and  as  a  therapeutic  technique,  trod  the  steep  path  alone 
and  independently,  as  physician  and  natural  scientist,  without 
knowing  that  reinforcement  and  encouragement  lay  to  his  hand  in 
literature.  He  did  not  know  Nietzsche,  scattered  throughout  whose 
pages  one  finds  premonitory  flashes  of  truly  Freudian  insight;  he 
did  not  know  Novalis,  whose  romantic-biologic  fantasies  so  often 
approach  astonishingly  close  to  analytic  conceptions;  he  did  not 
know  Kierkegaard,  whom  he  must  have  found  profoundly  sympa- 
thetic and  encouraging  for  the  Christian  zeal  which  urged  him  on 
to  psychological  extremes;  and,  finally,  he  did  not  know  Schopen- 
hauer, the  melancholy  symphonist  of  a  philosophy  of  the  instinct, 
groping  for  change  and  redemption.  Probably  it  must  be  so.  By  his 
unaided  effort,  without  knowledge  of  any  previous  intuitive 
achievement,  he  had  methodically  to  follow  out  the  line  of  his  own 
researches;  the  driving  force  of  his  activity  was  probably  increased 
by  this  very  freedom  from  special  advantage.  And  we  think  of 
him  as  solitary — the  attitude  is  inseparable  from  our  earliest  pic- 
ture of  the  man.  Solitary  in  the  sense  of  the  word  use  by  Nietzsche 
in  that  ravishing  essay  "What  Is  the  Meaning  of  Ascetic  Ideals?" 
when  he  characterizes  Schopenhauer  as  "a  genuine  philosopher, 
a  self-poised  mind,  a  man  and  gallant  knight,  stern-eyed,  with  the 
courage  of  his  own  strength,  who  knows  how  to  stand  alone  and 
not  wait  on  the  beck  and  nod  of  superior  officers."  In  this  guise 
of  man  and  gallant  knight,  a  knight  between  Death  and  the  Devil, 
I  have  been  used  to  picture  to  myself  our  psychologist  of  the  un- 
conscious, ever  since  his  figure  first  swam  into  my  mental  ken. 

That  happened  late — much  later  than  one  might  have  expected, 
considering  the  connection  between  this  science  and  the  poetic  and 
creative  impulse  in  general  and  mine  in  particular.  The  connection, 
the  bond  between  them,  is  twofold:  it  consists  first  in  a  love  of 
truth,  in  a  sense  of  truth,  a  sensitiveness  and  receptivity  for  truth's 
sweet  and  bitter,  which  largely  expresses  itself  in  a  psychological 
excitation,  a  clarity  of  vision,  to  such  an  extent  that  the  conception 
of  truth  actually  almost  coincides  with  that  of  psychological  per- 
ception and  recognition.  And  secondly  it  consists  in  an  understand- 
ing of  disease,  a  certain  affinity  with  it,  outweighed  by  fundamental 
health,  and  an  understanding  of  its  productive  significance. 


372  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

As  for  the  love  of  truth:  the  suffering,  morally  conditioned 
love  of  truth  as  psychology — that  has  its  origin  in  Nietzsche's  lofty 
school,  where  in  fact  the  coincidence  of  "truth"  and  "psychologi- 
cal truth,"  of  the  knower  with  the  psychologist,  is  striking  indeed. 
His  proud  truthfulness,  his  very  conception  of  intellectual  honesty, 
his  conscious  and  melancholy  fearlessness  in  its  service,  his  self- 
knowledge,  self-crucifixion — all  this  has  psychological  intention 
and  bearing.  Never  shall  I  forget  the  deepening,  strengthening, 
formative  effect  upon  my  own  powers  produced  by  my  acquaint- 
ance with  Nietzsche's  psychological  agony.  In  Tonio  Kroger  the 
artist  speaks  of  being  "sick  of  knowledge."  That  is  true  Nietzsche 
language;  and  the  youth's  melancholy  has  reference  to  the  Hamlet- 
like in  Nietzsche's  nature,  in  which  his  own  mirrored  itself: 
a  nature  called  to  knowledge  without  being  genuinely  born  to 
it.  These  are  the  pangs  and  anguishes  of  youth,  destined  to  be 
lightened  and  tranquilized  as  years  flowed  by  and  brought  ripeness 
with  them.  But  there  has  remained  with  me  the  desire  for  a  psycho- 
logical interpretation  of  knowledge  and  truth;  I  still  equate  them 
with  psychology  and  feel  the  psychological  will  to  truth  as  a  desire 
for  truth  in  general;  still  interpret  psychology  as  truth  in  the  most 
actual  and  courageous  sense  of  the  word.  One  would  call  the  tend- 
ency a  naturalistic  one,  I  suppose,  and  ascribe  it  to  a  training  in 
literary  naturalism;  it  forms  a  precondition  of  receptivity  for  the 
natural  science  of  the  psyche — in  other  words,  for  what  is  known 
as  psychoanalysis. 

I  spoke  of  a  second  bond  between  that  science  and  the  creative 
impulse:  the  understanding  of  disease,  or,  more  precisely,  of  dis- 
ease as  an  instrument  of  knowledge.  That,  too,  one  may  derive 
from  Nietzsche.  He  well  knew  what  he  owed  to  his  morbid  state, 
and  on  every  page  he  seems  to  instruct  us  that  there  is  no  deeper 
knowledge  without  experience  of  disease,  and  that  all  heightened 
healthiness  must  be  achieved  by  the  route  of  illness.  This  attitude 
too  may  be  referred  to  his  experience;  but  it  is  bound  up  with  the 
nature  of  the  intellectual  man  in  general,  of  the  creative  artist  in 
particular,  yes,  with  the  nature  of  humanity  and  the  human  being, 
of  which  last  of  course  the  creative  artist  is  an  extreme  expression. 
"Uhumanite"  says  Victor  Hugo  "s'affirme  par  I'infirmite."  A  say- 


Freud  and  the  Future  373 

ing  which  frankly  and  proudly  admits  the  delicate  constitution  of 
all  higher  humanity  and  culture  and  their  connoisseurship  in  the 
realm  of  disease.  Man  has  been  called  "das  kranke  Tier"  because  of 
the  burden  of  strain  and  explicit  difficulties  laid  upon  him  by  his 
position  between  nature  and  spirit,  between  angel  and  brute.  What 
wonder,  then,  that  by  the  approach  through  abnormality  we  have 
succeeded  in  penetrating  most  deeply  into  the  darkness  of  human 
nature;  that  the  study  of  disease — that  is  to  say,  neurosis — has  re- 
vealed itself  as  a  first-class  technique  of  anthropological  research? 

The  literary  artist  should  be  the  last  person  to  be  surprised  at 
the  fact.  Sooner  might  he  be  surprised  that  he,  considering  his 
strong  general  and  individual  tendency,  should  have  so  late  become 
aware  of  the  close  sympathetic  relations  which  connected  his  own 
existence  with  psychoanalytic  research  and  the  lifework  of  Sig- 
mund  Freud.  I  realized  this  connection  only  at  a  time  when  his 
achievement  was  no  longer  thought  of  as  merely  a  therapeutic 
method,  whether  recognized  or  disputed;  when  it  had  long  since 
outgrown  his  purely  medical  implications  and  become  a  world 
movement  which  penetrated  into  every  field  of  science  and  every 
domain  of  the  intellect:  literature,  the  history  of  art,  religion  and 
prehistory;  mythology,  folklore,  pedagogy,  and  what  not — thanks 
to  the  practical  and  constructive  zeal  of  experts  who  erected  a 
structure  of  more  general  investigation  round  the  psychiatric  and 
medical  core.  Indeed,  it  would  be  too  much  to  say  that  I  came  to 
psychoanalysis.  It  came  to  me.  Through  the  friendly  interest  of 
some  younger  workers  in  the  field  for  what  I  had  written,  from 
Little  Herr  Friedemann  to  Death  in  Venice,  The  Magic  Moun- 
tain, and  the  Joseph  novels,  it  gave  me  to  understand  that  in  my 
way  I  "belonged";  it  made  me  aware,  as  probably  behoved  it,  of 
my  own  latent,  preconscious  sympathies;  and  when  I  began  to 
occupy  myself  with  the  literature  of  psychoanalysis  I  recognized, 
arrayed  in  the  ideas  and  the  language  of  scientific  exactitude,  much 
that  had  long  been  familiar  to  me  through  my  youthful  mental 
experiences. 

Perhaps  you  will  kindly  permit  me  to  continue  for  a  while  in 
this  autobiographical  strain,  and  not  take  it  amiss  if  instead  of 
speaking  of  Freud  I  speak  of  myself.  And  indeed  I  scarcely  trust 


374  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

myself  to  speak  about  him.  What  new  thing  could  I  hope  to  say? 
But  I  shall  also,  quite  explicitly,  be  speaking  in  his  honor  in  speak- 
ing of  myself,  in  telling  you  how  profoundly  and  peculiarly  certain 
experiences  decisive  for  my  development  prepared  me  for  the 
Freudian  experience.  More  than  once,  and  in  many  places,  I  have 
confessed  to  the  profound,  even  shattering  impression  made  upon 
me  as  a  young  man  by  contact  with  the  philosophy  of  Arthur 
Schopenhauer,  to  which  then  a  monument  was  erected  in  the  pages 
of  Buddenbrooks.  Here  first,  in  the  pessimism  of  a  metaphysics 
already  very  strongly  equipped  on  the  natural-science  side,  I  en- 
countered the  dauntless  zeal  for  truth  which  stands  for  the  moral 
aspect  of  the  psychology  of  the  unconscious.  This  metaphysics,  in 
obscure  revolt  against  centuries-old  beliefs,  preached  the  primacy 
of  the  instinct  over  mind  and  reason;  it  recognized  the  will  as 
the  core  and  the  essential  foundation  of  the  world,  in  man  as  in  all 
other  created  beings;  and  the  intellect  as  secondary  and  accidental, 
servant  of  the  will  and  its  pale  illuminant.  This  it  preached  not  in 
malice,  not  in  the  antihuman  spirit  of  the  mind-hostile  doctrines 
of  today,  but  in  the  stern  love  of  truth  characteristic  of  the  century 
which  combated  idealism  out  of  love  for  the  ideal.  It  was  so  sin- 
cere, that  nineteenth  century,  that — through  the  mouth  of  Ibsen 
— it  pronounced  the  he,  the  lies  of  life,  to  be  indispensable.  Clearly 
there  is  a  vast  difference  whether  one  assents  to  a  he  out  of  sheer 
hatred  of  truth  and  the  spirit  or  for  the  sake  of  that  spirit,  in  bitter 
irony  and  anguished  pessimism!  Yet  the  distinction  is  not  clear  to 
everybody  today. 

Now,  Freud,  the  psychologist  of  the  unconscious,  is  a  true  son 
of  the  century  of  Schopenhauer  and  Ibsen — he  was  born  in  the 
middle  of  it.  How  closely  related  is  his  revolution  to  Schopen- 
hauer's, not  only  in  its  content,  but  also  in  its  moral  attitude! 
His  discovery  of  the  great  role  played  by  the  unconscious,  the  Id, 
in  the  soul-life  of  man  challenged  and  challenges  classical  psy- 
chology, to  which  the  consciousness  and  the  psyche  are  one  and 
the  same,  as  offensively  as  once  Schopenhauer's  doctrine  of  the 
will  challenged  philosophical  belief  in  reason  and  the  intellect. 
Certainly  the  early  devotee  of  The  World  as  Will  and  Idea  is  at 
home  in  the  admirable  essay  which  is  included  in  Freud's  New 


Freud  and  the  Future  375 

Introductory  Essays  in  Psychoanalysis  under  the  title  "The  Anat- 
omy of  the  Mental  Personality."  It  describes  the  soul-world  of 
the  unconscious,  the  Id,  in  language  as  strong,  and  at  the  same 
time  in  as  coolly  intellectual,  objective,  and  professional  a  tone, 
as  Schopenhauer  might  have  used  to  describe  his  sinister  kingdom 
of  the  will.  "The  domain  of  the  Id,"  he  says,  "is  the  dark,  in- 
accessible part  of  our  personality;  the  little  that  we  know  of  it  we 
have  learned  through  the  study  of  dreams  and  of  the  formation 
of  neurotic  symptoms."  He  depicts  it  as  a  chaos,  a  melting  pot  of 
seething  excitations.  The  Id,  he  thinks,  is,  so  to  speak,  open  to- 
ward the  somatic,  and  receives  thence  into  itself  compulsions  which 
there  find  psychic  expression — in  what  substratum  is  unknown. 
From  these  impulses  it  receives  its  energy;  but  it  is  not  organized, 
produces  no  collective  will,  merely  the  striving  to  achieve  satis- 
faction for  the  impulsive  needs  operating  under  the  pleasure  prin- 
ciple. In  it  no  laws  of  thought  are  valid,  and  certainly  not  the  law 
of  opposites.  "Contradictory  stimuli  exist  alongside  each  other 
without  canceling  each  other  out  or  even  detracting  from  each 
other;  at  most  they  unite  in  compromise  forms  under  the  compul- 
sion of  the  controlling  economy  for  the  release  of  energy."  You 
perceive  that  this  is  a  situation  which,  in  the  historical  experience 
of  our  own  day,  can  take  the  upper  hand  with  the  Ego,  with  a 
whole  mass-Ego,  thanks  to  a  moral  devastation  which  is  produced 
by  worship  of  the  unconscious,  the  glorification  of  its  dynamic  as 
the  only  life-promoting  force,  the  systematic  glorification  of  the 
primitive  and  irrational.  For  the  unconscious,  the  Id,  is  primitive 
and  irrational,  is  pure  dynamic.  It  knows  no  values,  no  good  or 
evil,  no  morality.  It  even  knows  no  time,  no  temporal  flow,  nor  any 
effect  of  time  upon  its  psychic  process.  "Wish  stimuli,"  says  Freud, 
"which  have  never  overpassed  the  Id,  and  impressions  which  have 
been  repressed  into  its  depths,  are  virtually  indestructible,  they  sur- 
vive decade  after  decade  as  though  they  had  just  happened.  They 
can  only  be  recognized  as  belonging  to  the  past,  devalued  and 
robbed  of  their  charge  of  energy,  by  becoming  conscious  through 
the  analytic  procedure."  And  he  adds  that  therein  lies  pre-emi- 
nently the  healing  effect  of  analytic  treatment.  We  perceive  accord- 
ingly how  antipathetic  deep  analysis  must  be  to  an  Ego  which  is 


376  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

intoxicated  by  a  worship  of  the  unconscious  to  the  point  of  being 
in  a  condition  of  subterranean  dynamic.  It  is  only  too  clear  and 
understandable  that  such  an  Ego  is  deaf  to  analysis  and  that  the 
name  of  Freud  must  not  be  mentioned  in  its  hearing. 
— 'mm  As  for  the  Ego  itself,  its  situation  is  pathetic,  well-nigh  alarm- 
ing. It  is  an  alert,  prominent,  and  enlightened  little  part  of  the  Id — 
much  as  Europe  is  a  small  and  lively  province  of  the  greater  Asia. 
The  Ego  is  that  part  of  the  Id  which  became  modified  by  contact 
with  the  outer  world;  equipped  for  the  reception  and  preservation 
of  stimuli;  comparable  to  the  integument  with  which  any  piece  of 
living  matter  surrounds  itself.  A  very  perspicuous  biological  pic- 
ture. Freud  writes  indeed  a  very  perspicuous  prose,  he  is  an  artist 
of  thought,  like  Schopenhauer,  and  like  him  a  writer  of  European 
rank.  The  relation  with  the  other  world  is,  he  says,  decisive  for  the 
Ego,  it  is  the  Ego's  task  to  represent  the  world  to  the  Id — for  its 
good!  For  without  regard  for  the  superior  power  of  the  outer  world 
the  Id,  in  its  blind  striving  toward  the  satisfaction  of  its  instincts, 
would  not  escape  destruction.  The  Ego  takes  cognizance  of  the 
outer  world,  it  is  mindful,  it  honorably  tries  to  distinguish  the  ob- 
jectively real  from  whatever  is  an  accretion  from  its  inward  sources 
of  stimulation.  It  is  entrusted  by  the  Id  with  the  lever  of  action;  but 
between  the  impulse  and  the  action  it  has  interposed  the  delay  of 
the  thought  process,  during  which  it  summons  experience  to  its  aid 
and  thus  possesses  a  certain  regulative  superiority  over  the  pleas- 
ure principle  which  rules  supreme  in  the  unconscious,  correcting  it 
by  means  of  the  principle  of  reality.  But  even  so,  how  feeble  it  is! 
Hemmed  in  between  the  unconscious,  the  outer  world,  and  what 
Freud  calls  the  Superego,  it  leads  a  pretty  nervous  and  anguished 
existence.  Its  own  dynamic  is  rather  weak.  It  derives  its  energy 
from  the  Id  and  in  general  has  to  carry  out  the  latter's  behests. 
It  is  fain  to  regard  itself  as  the  rider  and  the  unconscious  as  the 
horse.  But  many  a  time  it  is  ridden  by  the  unconscious;  and  I  take 
leave  to  add  what  Freud's  rational  morality  prevents  him  from 
saying,  that  under  some  circumstances  it  makes  more  progress  by 
this  illegitimate  means. 

But  Freud's  description  of  the  Id  and  the  Ego — is  it  not  to 
a  hair  Schopenhauer's  description  of  the  Will  and  the  Intellect,  a 


Freud  and  the  Future  7>11 

translation  of  the  latter's  metaphysics  into  psychology?  So  he  who 
had  been  initiated  into  the  metaphysics  of  Schopenhauer  and  in 
Nietzsche  tasted  the  painful  pleasure  of  psychology — he  must  needs 
have  been  filled  with  a  sense  of  recognition  and  familiarity  when 
first,  encouraged  thereto  by  its  denizens,  he  entered  the  realms  of 
psychoanalysis  and  looked  about  him. 

He  found  too  that  his  new  knowledge  had  a  strange  and  strong 
retroactive  effect  upon  the  old.  After  a  sojourn  in  the  world  of 
Freud,  how  differently,  in  the  light  of  one's  new  knowledge,  does 
one  re-read  the  reflections  of  Schopenhauer,  for  instance  his  great 
essay  "Transcendent  Speculations  on  Apparent  Design  in  the  Fate 
of  the  Individual"!  And  here  I  am  about  to  touch  upon  the  most 
profound  and  mysterious  point  of  contact  between  Freud's  natural- 
scientific  world  and  Schopenhauer's  philosophic  one.  For  the  essay 
I  have  named,  a  marvel  of  profundity  and  penetration,  constitutes 
this  point  of  contact.  The  pregnant  and  mysterious  idea  there 
developed  by  Schopenhauer  is  briefly  this:  that  precisely  as  in 
a  dream  it  is  our  own  will  that  unconsciously  appears  as  in- 
exorable objective  destiny,  everything  in  it  proceeding  out  of  our- 
selves and  each  of  us  being  the  secret  theater  manager  of  our 
own  dreams,  so  also  in  reality  the  great  dream  which  a  single 
essence,  the  will  itself,  dreams  with  us  all,  our  fate,  may  be  the 
product  of  our  inmost  selves,  of  our  wills,  and  we  are  actually 
ourselves  bringing  about  what  seems  to  be  happening  to  us.  I  have 
only  briefly  indicated  here  the  content  of  the  essay,  for  these  repre- 
sentations are  winged  with  the  strongest  and  most  sweeping  powers 
of  suggestion.  But  not  only  does  the  dream  psychology  which 
Schopenhauer  calls  to  his  aid  bear  an  explicitly  psychoanalytic 
character,  even  to  the  presence  of  the  sexual  argument  and  para- 
digm; but  the  whole  complexus  of  thought  is  a  philosophical  antici- 
pation of  analytical  conceptions,  to  a  quite  astonishing  extent.  For, 
to  repeat  what  I  said  in  the  beginning,  I  see  in  the  mystery  of  the 
unity  of  the  Ego  and  the  world,  of  being  and  happening,  in  the 
perception  of  the  apparently  objective  and  accidental  as  a  matter 
of  the  soul's  own  contriving,  the  innermost  core  of  psychoanalytic 
theory. 

And  here  there  occurs  to  me  a  phrase  from  the  pen  of  C.  J.  Jung, 


378  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

an  able  but  somewhat  ungrateful  scion  of  the  Freudian  school,  in 
his  significant  introduction  to  the  Tibetan  Book  of  the  Dead.  "It 
is  so  much  more  direct,  striking,  impressive,  and  thus  convincing," 
he  says,  "to  see  how  it  happens  to  me  than  to  see  how  I  do  it." 
A  bold,  even  an  extravagant  statement,  plainly  betraying  the  calm- 
ness with  which  in  a  certain  school  of  psychology  certain  things 
are  regarded  which  even  Schopenhauer  considered  prodigiously 
daring  speculation.  Would  this  unmasking  of  the  "happening"  as 
in  reality  "doing"  be  conceivable  without  Freud?  Never!  It  owes 
him  everything.  It  is  weighted  down  with  assumptions,  it  could  not 
be  understood,  it  could  never  have  been  written,  without  all  that 
analysis  has  brought  to  light  about  slips  of  tongue  and  pen,  the 
whole  field  of  human  error,  the  retreat  into  illness,  the  psychology 
of  accidents,  the  self-punishment  compulsion — in  short,  all  the 
wizardry  of  the  unconscious.  Just  as  little,  moreover,  would  that 
close-packed  sentence  of  Jung's,  including  its  psychological  prem- 
ises, have  been  possible  without  Schopenhauer's  adventurous  pio- 
neering speculation.  Perhaps  this  is  the  moment,  my  friends,  to 
indulge  on  this  festive  occasion  in  a  little  polemic  against  Freud 
himself.  He  does  not  esteem  philosophy  very  highly.  His  scientific 
exactitude  does  not  permit  him  to  regard  it  as  a  science.  He  re- 
proaches it  with  imagining  that  it  can  present  a  continuous  and 
consistent  picture  of  the  world;  with  overestimating  the  objective 
value  of  logical  operations;  with  believing  in  intuitions  as  a  source 
of  knowledge  and  with  indulging  in  positively  animistic  tendencies, 
in  that  it  believes  in  the  magic  of  words  and  the  influence  of 
thought  upon  reality.  But  would  philosophy  really  be  thinking  too 
highly  of  itself  on  these  assumptions?  Has  the  world  ever  been 
changed  by  anything  save  by  thought  and  its  magic  vehicle  the 
Word?  I  believe  that  in  actual  fact  philosophy  ranks  before  and 
above  the  natural  sciences  and  that  all  method  and  exactness  serve 
its  intuitions  and  its  intellectual  and  historical  will.  In  the  last 
analysis  it  is  always  a  matter  of  the  quod  erat  demonstrandum. 
Scientific  freedom  from  assumptions  is  or  should  be  a  moral  fact. 
But  intellectually  it  is,  as  Freud  points  out,  probably  an  illusion. 
One  might  strain  the  point  and  say  that  science  has  never  made  a 


Freud  and  the  Future  379 

discovery  without  being  authorized  and  encouraged  thereto  by 
philosophy. 

All  this  by  the  way.  But  it  is  in  line  with  my  general  intention 
to  pause  a  little  longer  at  the  sentence  which  I  quoted  from  Jung. 
In  this  essay  and  also  as  a  general  method  which  he  uses  by  pref- 
erence, Jung  applies  analytical  evidence  to  form  a  bridge  between 
Occidental  thought  and  Oriental  esoteric.  Nobody  has  focused  so 
sharply  as  he  the  Schopenhauer-Freud  perception  that  "the  giver  of 
all  given  conditions  resides  in  ourselves — a  truth  which  despite  all 
evidence  in  the  greatest  as  well  as  in  the  smallest  things  never  be- 
comes conscious,  though  it  is  only  too  often  necessary,  even  indis- 
pensable, that  it  should  be."  A  great  and  costly  change,  he  thinks, 
is  needed  before  we  understand  how  the  world  is  "given"  by  the 
nature  of  the  soul;  for  man's  animal  nature  strives  against  seeing 
himself  as  the  maker  of  his  own  conditions.  It  is  true  that  the 
East  has  always  shown  itself  stronger  than  the  West  in  the  con- 
quest of  our  animal  nature,  and  we  need  not  be  surprised  to  hear 
that  in  its  wisdom  it  conceives  even  the  gods  among  the  "given 
conditions"  originating  from  the  soul  and  one  with  her,  light  and 
reflection  of  the  human  soul.  This  knowledge,  which,  according  to 
the  Book  of  the  Dead,  one  gives  to  the  deceased  to  accompany 
him  on  his  way,  is  a  paradox  to  the  Occidental  mind,  conflicting 
with  its  sense  of  logic,  which  distinguishes  between  subject  and 
object  and  refuses  to  have  them  coincide  or  make  one  proceed 
from  the  other.  True,  European  mysticism  has  been  aware  of  such 
attitudes,  and  Angelus  Silesius  said: 

I  know  that  without  me  God  cannot  live  a  moment; 
If  I  am  destroyed  He  must  give  up  the  ghost. 

But  on  the  whole  a  psychological  conception  of  God,  an  idea  of 
the  godhead  which  is  not  pure  condition,  absolute  reality,  but  one 
with  the  soul  and  bound  up  with  it,  must  be  intolerable  to  Occi- 
dental religious  sense — it  would  be  equivalent  to  abandoning  the 
idea  of  God. 

Yet  religion — perhaps  even  etymologically — essentially  implies 
a  bond.  In  Genesis  we  have  talk  of  the  bond  (covenant)  between 
God  and  man,  the  psychological  basis  of  which  I  have  attempted 


380  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

to  give  in  the  mythological  novel  Joseph  and  His  Brothers.  Per- 
haps my  hearers  will  be  indulgent  if  I  speak  a  little  about  my  own 
work;  there  may  be  some  justification  for  introducing  it  here  in 
this  hour  of  formal  encounter  between  creative  literature  and  the 
psychoanalytic.  It  is  strange — and  perhaps  strange  not  only  to 
me — that  in  this  work  there  obtains  precisely  that  psychological 
theology  which  the  scholar  ascribes  to  Oriental  esoteric.  This 
Abram  is  in  a  sense  the  father  of  God.  He  perceived  and  brought 
Him  forth;  His  mighty  qualities,  ascribed  to  Him  by  Abram,  were 
probably  His  original  possession,  Abram  was  not  their  inventor, 
yet  in  a  sense  he  was,  by  virtue  of  his  recognizing  them  and  there- 
with, by  taking  thought,  making  them  real.  God's  mighty  qualities 
— and  thus  God  Himself — are  indeed  something  objective,  exte- 
rior to  Abram;  but  at  the  same  time  they  are  in  him  and  of  him 
as  well;  the  power  of  his  own  soul  is  at  moments  scarcely  to  be 
distinguished  from  them,  it  consciously  interpenetrates  and  fuses 
with  them — and  such  is  the  origin  of  the  bond  which  then  the 
Lord  strikes  with  Abram,  as  the  explicit  confirmation  of  an  in- 
ward fact.  The  bond,  it  is  stated,  is  made  in  the  interest  of  both, 
to  the  end  of  their  common  sanctification.  Need  human  and  need 
divine  here  entwine  until  it  is  hard  to  say  whether  it  was  the 
human  or  the  divine  that  took  the  initiative.  In  any  case  the  ar- 
rangement shows  that  the  holiness  of  man  and  the  holiness  of 
God  constituted  a  twofold  process,  one  part  being  most  intimately 
bound  up  with  the  other.  Wherefore  else,  one  asks,  should  there 
be  a  bond  at  all? 

The  soul  as  "giver  of  the  given" — yes,  my  friends,  I  am  well 
aware  that  in  the  novel  this  conception  reaches  an  ironic  pitch 
which  is  not  authorized  either  in  Oriental  wisdom  or  in  psycho- 
logical perception.  But  there  is  something  thrilling  about  the  un- 
conscious and  only  later  discovered  harmony.  Shall  I  call  it  the 
power  of  suggestion?  But  sympathy  would  be  a  better  word:  a 
kind  of  intellectual  affinity,  of  which  naturally  psychoanalysis  was 
earlier  aware  than  was  I,  and  which  proceeded  out  of  those  liter- 
ary appreciations  which  I  owed  to  it  at  an  earlier  stage.  The  latest 
of  these  was  an  offprint  of  an  article  which  appeared  in  Imago, 
written  by  a  Viennese  scholar  of  the  Freudian  school,  under  the 


Freud  and  the  Future  381 

title  "On  the  Psychology  of  the  Older  School  of  Biography."  The 
rather  dry  title  gives  no  indication  of  the  remarkable  contents. 
The  writer  shows  how  the  older  and  simpler  type  of  biography 
and  in  particular  the  written  lives  of  artists,  nourished  and  con- 
ditioned by  popular  legend  and  tradition,  assimilate,  as  it  were, 
the  life  of  the  subject  to  the  conventionalized  stock-in-trade  of 
biography  in  general,  thus  imparting  a  sort  of  sanction  to  their 
own  performance  and  establishing  its  genuineness;  making  it  au- 
thentic in  the  sense  of  "as  it  always  was"  and  "as  it  has  been 
written."  For  man  sets  store  by  recognition,  he  likes  to  find  the 
old  in  the  new,  the  typical  in  the  individual.  From  that  recogni- 
tion he  draws  a  sense  of  the  familiar  in  life,  whereas  if  it  painted 
itself  as  entirely  new,  singular  in  time  and  space,  without  any  pos- 
sibility of  resting  upon  the  known,  it  could  only  bewilder  and 
alarm.  The  question,  then,  which  is  raised  by  the  essay,  is  this: 
can  any  line  be  sharply  and  unequivocally  drawn  between  the 
formal  stock-in-trade  of  legendary  biography  and  the  character- 
istics of  the  single  personality — in  other  words,  between  the  typi- 
cal and  the  individual?  A  question  negatived  by  its  very  statement. 
For  the  truth  is  that  life  is  a  mingling  of  the  individual  elements 
and  the  formal  stock-in-trade;  a  mingling  in  which  the  individual, 
as  it  were,  only  lifts  his  head  above  the  formal  and  impersonal 
elements.  Much  that  is  extrapersonal,  much  unconscious  identifi- 
cation, much  that  is  conventional  and  schematic,  is  nonetheless 
decisive  for  the  experience  not  only  of  the  artist  but  of  the  human 
being  in  general.  "Many  of  us,"  says  the  writer  of  the  article, 
"  'live'  today  a  biographical  type,  the  destiny  of  a  class  or  rank 
or  calling.  The  freedom  in  the  shaping  of  the  human  being's  life 
is  obviously  connected  with  that  bond  which  we  term  'lived  vita'  " 
And  then,  to  my  delight,  but  scarcely  to  my  surprise,  he  begins 
to  cite  from  Joseph,  the  fundamental  motif  of  which  he  says  is 
precisely  this  idea  of  the  "lived  life,"  life  as  succession,  as  a  mov- 
ing in  others'  steps,  as  identification — such  as  Joseph's  teacher, 
Eliezer,  practices  with  droll  solemnity.  For  in  him  time  is  can- 
celed and  all  the  Eliezers  of  the  past  gather  to  shape  the  Eliezer 
of  the  present,  so  that  he  speaks  in  the  first  person  of  that  Elie- 


382  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

zer  who  was  Abram's  servant,  though  he  was  far  from  being  the 
same  man. 

I  must  admit  that  I  find  the  train  of  thought  extraordinarily 
convincing.  The  essay  indicates  the  precise  point  at  which  the 
psychological  interest  passes  over  into  the  mythical.  It  makes  it 
clear  that  the  typical  is  actually  the  mythical,  and  that  one  may 
as  well  say  "lived  myth"  as  "lived  life."  But  the  mythus  as  lived 
is  the  epic  idea  embodied  in  my  novel;  and  it  is  plain  to  me  that 
when  as  a  novelist  I  took  the  step  in  my  subject  matter  from  the 
bourgeois  and  individual  to  the  mythical  and  typical  my  personal 
connection  with  the  analytic  field  passed  into  its  acute  stage.  The 
mythical  interest  is  as  native  to  psychoanalysis  as  the  psychological 
interest  is  to  all  creative  writing.  Its  penetration  into  the  child- 
hood of  the  individual  soul  is  at  the  same  time  a  penetration  into 
the  childhood  of  mankind,  into  the  primitive  and  mythical.  Freud 
has  told  us  that  for  him  all  natural  science,  medicine,  and  psycho- 
therapy were  a  lifelong  journey  round  and  back  to  the  early  pas- 
sion of  his  youth  for  the  history  of  mankind,  for  the  origins  of 
religion  and  morality — an  interest  which  at  the  height  of  his  career 
broke  out  to  such  magnificent  effect  in  Totem  and  Taboo.  The 
word  Tiefenpsychologie  ("deep"  psychology)  has  a  temporal  sig- 
nificance; the  primitive  foundations  of  the  human  soul  are  likewise 
primitive  time,  they  are  those  profound  time-sources  where  the 
myth  has  its  home  and  shapes  the  primeval  norms  and  forms  of 
life.  For  the  myth  is  the  foundation  of  life;  it  is  the  timeless 
schema,  the  pious  formula  into  which  life  flows  when  it  repro- 
duces its  traits  out  of  the  unconscious.  Certainly  when  a  writer  has 
acquired  the  habit  of  regarding  life  as  mythical  and  typical  there 
comes  a  curious  heightening  of  his  artist  temper,  a  new  refresh- 
ment to  his  perceiving  and  shaping  powers  which  otherwise  occurs 
much  later  in  life;  for  while  in  the  life  of  the  human  race  the 
mythical  is  an  early  and  primitive  stage,  in  the  life  of  the  individual 
it  is  a  late  and  mature  one.  What  is  gained  is  an  insight  into  the 
higher  truth  depicted  in  the  actual;  a  smiling  knowledge  of  the 
eternal,  the  ever-being  and  authentic;  a  knowledge  of  the  schema 
in  which  and  according  to  which  the  supposed  individual  lives, 
unaware,  in  his  naive  belief  in  himself  as  unique  in  space  and 


Freud  and  the  Future  383 

time,  of  the  extent  to  which  his  life  is  but  formula  and  repetition 
and  his  path  marked  out  for  him  by  those  who  trod  it  before  him. 
His  character  is  a  mythical  role  which  the  actor  just  emerged  from 
the  depths  to  the  light  plays  in  the  illusion  that  it  is  his  own  and 
unique,  that  he,  as  it  were,  has  invented  it  all  himself,  with  a 
dignity  and  security  of  which  his  supposed  unique  individuality  in 
time  and  space  is  not  the  source,  but  rather  which  he  creates  out 
of  his  deeper  consciousness  in  order  that  something  which  was 
once  founded  and  legitimized  shall  again  be  represented  and  once 
more  for  good  or  ill,  whether  nobly  or  basely,  in  any  case  after  its 
own  kind  conduct  itself  according  to  pattern.  Actually,  if  his  ex- 
istence consisted  merely  in  the  unique  and  the  present,  he  would 
not  know  how  to  conduct  himself  at  all;  he  would  be  confused, 
helpless,  unstable  in  his  own  self-regard,  would  not  know  which 
foot  to  put  foremost  or  what  sort  of  face  to  put  on.  His  dignity 
and  security  lie  all  unconsciously  in  the  fact  that  with  him  some- 
thing timeless  has  once  more  emerged  into  the  light  and  become 
present;  it  is  a  mythical  value  added  to  the  otherwise  poor  and 
valueless  single  character;  it  is  native  worth,  because  its  origin  lies 
in  the  unconscious. 

Such  is  the  gaze  which  the  mythically  oriented  artist  bands  upon 
the  phenomena  about  him — an  ironic  and  superior  gaze,  as  you 
can  see,  for  the  mythical  knowledge  resides  in  the  gazer  and  not 
in  that  at  which  he  gazes.  But  let  us  suppose  that  the  mythical 
point  of  view  could  become  subjective;  that  it  could  pass  over 
into  the  active  Ego  and  become  conscious  there,  proudly  and 
darkly  yet  joyously,  of  its  recurrence  and  its  typicality,  could  cele- 
brate its  role  and  realize  its  own  value  exclusively  in  the  knowledge 
that  it  was  a  fresh  incarnation  of  the  traditional  upon  earth.  One 
might  say  that  such  a  phenomenon  alone  could  be  the  "lived 
myth";  nor  should  we  think  that  it  is  anything  novel  or  unknown. 
The  life  in  the  myth,  life  as  a  sacred  repetition,  is  a  historical  form 
of  life,  for  the  man  of  ancient  times  lived  thus.  An  instance  is  the 
figure  of  the  Egyptian  Cleopatra,  which  is  Ishtar,  Astarte,  Aphro- 
dite in  person.  Bachofen,  in  his  description  of  the  cult  of  Bacchus, 
the  Dionysiac  religion,  regards  the  Egyptian  queen  as  the  consum- 
mate picture  of  a  Dionysiac  stimula;  and  according  to  Plutarch  it 


384  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

was  far  more  her  erotic  intellectual  culture  than  her  physical 
charms  that  entitled  her  to  represent  the  female  as  developed  into 
the  earthly  embodiment  of  Aphrodite.  But  her  Aphrodite  nature, 
her  role  of  Hathor-Isis,  is  not  only  objective,  not  only  a  treatment 
of  her  by  Plutarch  or  Bachofen;  it  was  the  content  of  her  subjec- 
tive existence  as  well,  she  lived  the  part.  This  we  can  see  by  the 
manner  of  her  death:  she  is  supposed  to  have  killed  herself  by 
laying  an  asp  upon  her  bosom.  But  the  snake  was  the  familiar  of 
Ishtar,  the  Egyptian  Isis,  who  is  represented  clad  in  a  garment  of 
scales;  also  there  exists  a  statuette  of  Ishtar  holding  a  snake  to 
her  bosom.  So  that  if  Cleopatra's  death  was  as  the  legend  repre- 
sents, the  manner  of  it  was  a  manifestation  of  her  mythical  Ego. 
Moreover,  did  she  not  adopt  the  falcon  hood  of  the  goddess  Isis 
and  adorn  herself  with  the  insignia  of  Hathor,  the  cow's  horns 
with  the  crescent  moon  between?  And  name  her  two  children  by 
Mark  Antony  Helios  and  Selene?  No  doubt  she  was  a  very  sig- 
nificant figure  indeed — significant  in  the  antique  sense,  that  she 
was  well  aware  who  she  was  and  in  whose  footsteps  she  trod! 

The  Ego  of  antiquity  and  its  consciousness  of  itself  was  different 
from  our  own,  less  exclusive,  less  sharply  defined.  It  was,  as  it 
were,  open  behind;  it  received  much  from  the  past  and  by  repeat- 
ing it  gave  it  presentness  again.  The  Spanish  scholar  Ortega  y 
Gasset  puts  it  that  the  man  of  antiquity,  before  he  did  anything, 
took  a  step  backwards,  like  the  bullfighter  who  leaps  back  to 
deliver  the  mortal  thrust.  He  searched  the  past  for  a  pattern  into 
which  he  might  slip  as  into  a  diving  bell,  and  being  thus  at  once 
disguised  and  protected  might  rush  upon  his  present  problem.  Thus 
his  life  was  in  a  sense  a  reanimation,  an  archaizing  attitude.  But 
it  is  just  this  life  as  reanimation  that  is  the  life  as  myth.  Alexander 
walked  in  the  footsteps  of  Miltiades;  the  ancient  biographers  of 
Caesar  were  convinced,  rightly  or  wrongly,  that  he  took  Alexander 
as  his  prototype.  But  such  "imitation"  meant  far  more  than  we 
mean  by  the  word  today.  It  was  a  mythical  identification,  pecul- 
iarly familiar  to  antiquity;  but  it  is  operative  far  into  modern 
times,  and  at  all  times  is  psychically  possible.  How  often  have  we 
not  been  told  that  the  figure  of  Napoleon  was  cast  in  the  antique 
mold!  He  regretted  that  the  mentality  of  the  time  forbade  him  to 


Freud  and  the  Future  385 

give  himself  out  for  the  son  of  Jupiter  Amon,  in  imitation  of  Alex- 
ander. But  we  need  not  doubt  that — at  least  at  the  period  of  his 
Eastern  exploits — he  mythically  confounded  himself  with  Alex- 
ander; while  after  he  turned  his  face  westwards  he  is  said  to  have 
declared:  "I  am  Charlemagne."  Note  that:  not  "I  am  like  Charle- 
magne" or  "My  situation  is  like  Charlemagne's,"  but  quite  simply: 
"I  am  he."  That  is  the  formulation  of  the  myth.  Life,  then — at  any 
rate,  significant  life — was  in  ancient  times  the  reconstitution  of 
the  myth  in  flesh  and  blood;  it  referred  to  and  appealed  to  the 
myth;  only  through  it,  through  reference  to  the  past,  could  it  ap- 
prove itself  as  genuine  and  significant.  The  myth  is  the  legitimiza- 
tion of  life;  only  through  and  in  its  does  life  find  self-awareness, 
sanction,  consecration.  Cleopatra  fulfilled  her  Aphrodite  character 
even  unto  death — and  can  one  live  and  die  more  significantly  or 
worthily  than  in  the  celebration  of  the  myth?  We  have  only  to 
think  of  Jesus  and  His  life,  which  was  lived  in  order  that  that 
which  was  written  might  be  fulfilled.  It  is  not  easy  to  distinguish 
between  His  own  consciousness  and  the  conventionalizations  of 
the  evangelists.  But  His  word  on  the  cross,  about  the  ninth  hour, 
that  "Eli,  Eli,  lama  sabachthani?"  was  evidently  not  in  the  least 
an  outburst  of  despair  and  disillusionment;  but  on  the  contrary  a 
lofty  messianic  sense  of  self.  For  the  phrase  is  not  original,  not  a 
spontaneous  outcry.  It  stands  at  the  beginning  of  the  Twenty- 
second  Psalm,  which  from  one  end  to  the  other  is  an  announce- 
ment of  the  Messiah.  Jesus  was  quoting,  and  the  quotation  meant: 
"Yes,  it  is  I!"  Precisely  thus  did  Cleopatra  quote  when  she  took 
the  asp  to  her  breast  to  die;  and  again  the  quotation  meant:  "Yes, 
it  is  I!" 

Let  us  consider  for  a  moment  the  word  "celebration"  which  I 
used  in  this  connection.  It  is  a  pardonable,  even  a  proper  usage. 
For  life  in  the  myth,  life,  so  to  speak,  in  quotation,  is  a  kind  of 
celebration,  in  that  it  is  a  making  present  of  the  past,  it  becomes 
a  religious  act,  the  performance  by  a  celebrant  of  a  prescribed 
procedure;  it  becomes  a  feast.  For  a  feast  is  an  anniversary,  a 
renewal  of  the  past  in  the  present.  Every  Christmas  the  world- 
saving  Babe  is  born  again  on  earth,  to  suffer,  to  die,  and  to  arise. 
The  feast  is  the  abrogation  of  time,  an  event,  a  solemn  narrative 


386  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

being  played  out  conformably  to  an  immemorial  pattern;  the  events 
in  it  take  place  not  for  the  first  time,  but  ceremonially  accord- 
ing to  the  prototype.  It  achieves  presentness  as  feasts  do,  recurring 
in  time  with  their  phases  and  hours  following  on  each  other  in 
time  as  they  did  in  the  original  occurrence.  In  antiquity  each  feast 
was  essentially  a  dramatic  performance,  a  mask;  it  was  the  scenic 
reproduction,  with  priests  as  actors,  of  stories  about  the  gods — as 
for  instance  the  life  and  sufferings  of  Osiris.  The  Christian  Middle 
Ages  had  their  mystery  play,  with  heaven,  earth,  and  the  torments 
of  hell — just  as  we  have  it  later  in  Goethe's  Faust;  they  had  their 
carnival  farce,  their  folk  mime.  The  artist  eye  has  a  mythical  slant 
upon  life,  which  makes  it  look  like  a  farce,  like  a  theatrical  per- 
formance of  a  prescribed  feast,  like  a  Punch  and  Judy  epic, 
wherein  mythical  character  puppets  reel  off  a  plot  abiding  from 
past  time  and  now  again  present  in  a  jest.  It  only  lacks  that  this 
mythical  slant  pass  over  and  become  subjective  in  the  performers 
themselves,  become  a  festival  and  mythical  consciousness  of  part 
and  play,  for  an  epic  to  be  produced  such  as  that  in  the  first  vol- 
ume of  the  Joseph  and  His  Brothers  series,  particularly  in  the 
chapter  "The  Great  Hoaxing."  There  a  mythical  recurrent  farce  is 
tragicomically  played  by  personages  all  of  whom  well  know  in 
whose  steps  they  tread:  Isaac,  Esau,  and  Jacob;  and  who  act  out 
the  cruel  and  grotesque  tale  of  how  Esau  the  Red  is  led  by  the 
nose  and  cheated  of  his  birthright  to  the  huge  delight  of  all  the 
bystanders.  Joseph  too  is  another  such  celebrant  of  life;  with 
charming  mythological  hocus-pocus  he  enacts  in  his  own  person 
the  Tammuz-Osiris  myth,  "bringing  to  pass"  anew  the  story  of 
the  mangled,  buried,  and  arisen  god,  playing  his  festival  game 
with  that  which  mysteriously  and  secretly  shapes  life  out  of  its 
own  depths — the  unconscious.  The  mystery  of  the  metaphysician 
and  psychologist,  that  the  soul  is  the  giver  of  all  given  conditions, 
becomes  in  Joseph  easy,  playful,  blithe — like  a  consummately  ar- 
tistic performance  by  a  fencer  or  juggler.  It  reveals  his  infantile 
nature — and  the  word  I  have  used  betrays  how  closely,  though 
seeming  to  wander  so  far  afield,  we  have  kept  to  the  subject  of 
our  evening's  homage. 

Infantilism — in  other  words,  regression  to  childhood — what  a 


Freud  and  the  Future  387 

role  this  genuinely  psychoanalytic  element  plays  in  all  our  lives! 
What  a  large  share  it  has  in  shaping  the  life  of  a  human  being; 
operating,  indeed,  in  just  the  way  I  have  described:  as  mythical 
identification,  as  survival,  as  a  treading  in  footprints  already  made! 
The  bond  with  the  father,  the  imitation  of  the  father,  the  game 
of  being  the  father,  and  the  transference  to  father-substitute  pic- 
tures of  a  higher  and  more  developed  type — how  these  infantile 
traits  work  upon  the  life  of  the  individual  to  mark  and  shape  it!  I 
use  the  word  "shape,"  for  to  me  in  all  seriousness  the  happiest, 
most  pleasurable  element  of  what  we  call  education  (Bildung), 
the  shaping  of  the  human  being,  is  just  this  powerful  influence  of 
admiration  and  love,  this  childish  identification  with  a  father- 
image  elected  out  of  profound  affinity.  The  artist  in  particular,  a 
passionately  childlike  and  play-possessed  being,  can  tell  us  of  the 
mysterious  yet  after  all  obvious  effect  of  such  infantile  imitation 
upon  his  own  life,  his  productive  conduct  of  a  career  which  after 
all  is  often  nothing  but  a  reanimation  of  the  hero  under  very  dif- 
ferent temporal  and  personal  conditions  and  with  very  different, 
shall  we  say  childish,  means.  The  imitatio  Goethe,  with  its  Werther 
and  Wilhelm  Meister  stages,  its  old-age  period  of  Faust  and  Diwan, 
can  still  shape  and  mythically  mold  the  life  of  an  artist — rising 
out  of  his  unconscious,  yet  playing  over — as  is  the  artist  way — 
into  a  smiling,  childlike,  and  profound  awareness. 

The  Joseph  of  the  novel  is  an  artist,  playing  with  his  imitatio 
dei  upon  the  unconscious  string;  and  I  know  not  how  to  express 
the  feelings  which  possess  me — something  like  a  joyful  sense  of 
divination  of  the  future — when  I  indulge  in  this  encouragement  of 
the  unconscious  to  play,  to  make  itself  fruitful  in  a  serious  prod- 
uct, in  a  narrational  meeting  of  psychology  and  myth,  which  is  at 
the  same  time  a  celebration  of  the  meeting  between  poetry  and 
analysis. 

And  now  this  word  "future":  I  have  used  it  in  the  title  of  my 
address,  because  it  is  this  idea,  the  idea  of  the  future,  which  I 
involuntarily  like  best  to  connect  with  the  name  of  Freud.  But 
even  as  I  have  been  speaking  I  have  been  asking  myself  whether 
I  have  not  been  guilty  of  a  cause  of  confusion;  whether — from 
what  I  have  said  up  to  now — a  better  title  might  not  have  been 


388  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

something  like  "Freud  and  the  Myth."  And  yet  I  rather  cling  to 
the  combination  of  name  and  word  and  I  would  like  to  justify 
and  make  clear  its  relation  to  what  I  have  so  far  said.  I  make 
bold  to  believe  that  in  that  novel  so  kin  to  the  Freudian  world, 
making  as  it  does  the  light  of  psychology  play  upon  the  myth, 
there  lie  hidden  seeds  and  elements  of  a  new  and  coming  sense  of 
our  humanity.  And  no  less  firmly  do  I  hold  that  we  shall  one 
day  recognize  in  Freud's  lifework  the  cornerstone  for  the  building 
of  a  new  anthropology  and  therewith  of  a  new  structure,  to  which 
many  stones  are  being  brought  up  today,  which  shall  be  the  future 
dwelling  of  a  wiser  and  freer  humanity.  This  physicianly  psycholo- 
gist will,  I  make  no  doubt  at  all,  be  honored  as  the  pathfinder 
toward  a  humanism  of  the  future,  which  we  dimly  divine  and 
which  will  have  experienced  much  that  the  earlier  humanism  knew 
not  of.  It  will  be  a  humanism  standing  in  a  different  relation  to 
the  powers  of  the  lower  world,  the  unconscious,  the  Id:  a  relation 
bolder,  freer,  blither,  productive  of  a  riper  art  than  any  possible 
in  our  neurotic,  fear-ridden,  hate-ridden  world.  Freud  is  of  the 
opinion  that  the  significance  of  psychoanalysis  as  a  science  of  the 
unconscious  will  in  the  future  far  outrank  its  value  as  a  therapeutic 
method.  But  even  as  a  science  of  the  unconscious  it  is  a  thera- 
peutic method,  in  the  grand  style,  a  method  overarching  the  indi- 
vidual case.  Call  this,  if  you  choose,  a  poet's  Utopia;  but  the 
thought  is  after  all  not  unthinkable  that  the  resolution  of  our  great 
fear  and  our  great  hate,  their  conversion  into  a  different  relation 
to  the  unconscious  which  shall  be  more  the  artist's,  more  ironic 
and  yet  not  necessarily  irreverent,  may  one  day  be  due  to  the  heal- 
ing effect  of  this  very  science. 

The  analytic  revelation  is  a  revolutionary  force.  With  it  a  blithe 
skepticism  has  come  into  the  world,  a  mistrust  which  unmasks  all 
the  schemes  and  subterfuges  of  our  own  souls.  Once  roused  and 
on  the  alert,  it  cannot  be  put  to  sleep  again.  It  infiltrates  life,  un- 
dermines its  raw  naivete,  takes  from  it  the  strain  of  its  own  igno- 
rance, de-emotionalizes  it,  as  it  were,  inculcates  the  taste  for 
understatement,  as  the  English  call  it — for  the  deflated  rather  than 
for  the  inflated  word,  for  the  cult  which  exerts  its  influence  by 
moderation,  by  modesty.  Modesty — what  a  beautiful  word!  In  the 


Freud  and  the  Future  389 

German  it  originally  had  to  do  with  knowing  and  only  later  got 
its  present  meaning;  while  the  Latin  word  from  which  the  English 
comes  means  a  way  of  doing — in  short,  both  together  give  us 
almost  the  sense  of  the  French  savoir  faire — to  know  how  to  do. 
May  we  hope  that  this  may  be  the  fundamental  temper  of  that 
more  blithely  objective  and  peaceful  world  which  the  science  of 
the  unconscious  may  be  called  to  usher  in? 

Its  mingling  of  the  pioneer  with  the  physicianly  spirit  justifies 
such  a  hope.  Freud  once  called  his  theory  of  dreams  "a  bit  of 
scientific  new-found  land  won  from  superstition  and  mysticism." 
The  word  "won"  expresses  the  colonizing  spirit  and  significance 
of  his  work.  "Where  Id  was,  shall  be  Ego,"  he  epigrammatically 
says.  And  he  calls  analysis  a  cultural  labor  comparable  to  the 
draining  of  the  Zuider  Zee.  Almost  in  the  end  the  traits  of  the 
venerable  man  merge  into  the  lineaments  of  the  gray-haired  Faust, 
whose  spirit  urges  him 

to  shut  the  imperious  sea  from  the  shore  away, 
Set  narrower  bounds  to  the  broad  water's  waste. 

Then  open  I  to  many  millions  space 
Where  they  may  live,  not  safe-secure,  but  free 
And  active.  And  such  a  busy  swarming  I  would  see 
Standing  amid  free  folk  on  a  free  soil. 

The  free  folk  are  the  people  of  a  future  freed  from  fear  and 
hate,  and  ripe  for  peace. 


William  Barrett 


Writers  and  Madness 


THE  ANCIENTS— THE  POWER  TO 
CONVINCE— A  UTHENTICITY— SWIFT 

Is  my  title  extreme?  It  is,  if  you  will,  just  the 
same  subject  that  has  been  very  much  discussed  recently  under 
the  titles  "Art  and  Neurosis,"  "Art  and  Anxiety,"  etc.  But  I  choose 
the  more  ancient  and  extreme  term  precisely  to  maintain  conti- 
nuity with  all  the  older  instances.  Is  anything  born  ex  nihilo,  much 
less  a  phenomenon  so  profound  and  disturbing  as  that  estranged 
neurotic,  the  modern  writer?  Even  when  the  poet  existed  in  his 
most  unalienated  condition — in  ancient  Greece — the  similarity  of 
madness  and  inspiration  was  the  common  saying;  and  Plato  did 
not  invent  but  only  gave  literary  formulation  to  the  belief  about 
the  poet's  madness.  Pause  for  a  moment  over  this  extraordinary 
paradox.  They  sat  on  sacred  ground,  precinct  of  the  god,  the  day 
and  drama  were  surrounded  by  all  the  occasions  and  overtones 
of  religion,  the  myth  known  and  on  the  whole  taken  as  true,  and 
yet.  .  .  .  And  yet  this  audience  too  must  exact  a  terrible  price 
of  its  poet  before  they  can  take  him  seriously.  A  secret  guilt  per- 
390 


Writers  and  Madness  391 

haps?  As  they  sat  in  broad  daylight  indulging  their  collective  fan- 
tasy, pretending  to  believe  that  what  was  before  their  eyes  was 
in  fact  something  else,  did  an  uneasy  stirring  at  this  indulgence 
drive  them  to  exact  from  their  poet  in  revenge  the  penalty  of 
madness-inspiration?  But  what,  in  any  case,  we  do  know  is  this: 
that  even  when  dealing  with  myths  whose  form  and  details  were 
completely  laid  down  for  him,  the  Greek  poet  had  to  launch  out 
into  this  sea  (of  "madness,"  if  we  believe  Plato)  in  order  to  re- 
turn to  pour  his  own  personal  being  into  the  preformed  mold. 
Otherwise,  his  play  could  not  have  convinced  an  audience  that 
already  assumed  their  myth  as  a  matter  of  fact — such  is  the  para- 
dox from  which  we  start! 

Everything  Swift  wrote,  Leslie  Stephen  says  with  penetrating 
good  sense,  is  interesting  because  it  is  the  man  himself.  (If  this 
is  true  of  many  other  writers,  there  is  on  the  other  hand  a  special 
and  compelling  sense  in  which  it  holds  of  Swift — another  reason 
for  my  finding  his  case  so  apposite.)  Does  it  look  as  if  I  were 
only  about  to  say,  with  Buffon,  "the  style  is  the  man"?  But  "style" 
does  not  say  enough,  and  it  is  not  enough  to  remain  happy  with 
the  judicious  aphorism  or  with  Stephen's  judicious  critical  obser- 
vation. The  modern  critic  cannot  rest  easy  with  this  eighteenth- 
century  piece  of  astuteness,  which  long  ago  passed  into  the  stock 
of  our  critical  assumptions;  we  begin  to  know  too  much  and  we 
must  dig  mines  beneath  its  truth. 

But  it  is  well  to  begin  from  such  broad  and  obvious  data  of 
criticism  (instances  of  which  we  could  multiply  indefinitely)  for 
we  may  now  pass  on  to  the  more  complex  and  really  monumental 
example  provided  us  by  James  Joyce.  In  his  Portrait  of  the  Artist 
Joyce  develops  a  theory  of  literary  creation,  anchored  on  the  meta- 
physics of  St.  Thomas  but  essentially  expressing  the  Flaubertian 
view  of  the  writer  as  a  god  who  remains  above  and  beyond  his 
creation  which  he  manipulates  as  he  wills.  But  in  Finnegans  Wake 
the  universal  human  symbol  of  the  writer  has  now  become  the 
infant  Earwicker  twin  scrawling  with  his  own  excrement  on  the 
floor!  (Between  the  two,  somewhere  near  the  midpoint  of  this 
remarkable  evolution,  Stephen  Dedalus  declares,  in  the  famous 


392  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

discussion  of  Shakespeare  in  Ulysses,  that  the  writer,  setting  forth 
from  his  door  for  the  encounter  with  experience,  meets  only  him- 
self on  the  doorstep).  If  Joyce  is  the  great  case  of  a  rigorous  and 
logical  development  among  modern  writers,  each  step  forward 
carrying  the  immense  weight  of  his  total  commitment  and  con- 
centration, we  are  not  wrong  then  to  find  in  this  changing  portrait 
of  the  artist  a  measure  of  how  far  he  has  matured  as  man  and 
writer  from  the  once  youthful  and  arrogant  aesthete.  And  if  we 
will  not  learn  from  our  own  experience,  do  we  not  remain  formal- 
ists toward  literature  only  at  the  expense  of  neglecting  Joyce's  far 
deeper  experience? 

But  in  fact  we  already  know  there  is  no  escape  from  ourselves. 
Existence  is  a  dense  plenum  into  which  we  are  plunged,  and  every 
thought,  wish,  and  fear  is  "overdetermined,"  coming  to  be  under 
the  infinite  pressures  within  that  plenum  of  all  other  thoughts, 
wishes,  and  fears.  Fingerprints  and  footprints  are  our  own,  and 
Darwin  has  pointed  out  that  our  inner  organs  differ  from  person 
to  person  as  much  as  our  faces.  The  signature  of  ourselves  is 
written  over  all  our  dreams  like  the  criminal's  fingerprints  across 
his  crime.  The  writer,  no  more  than  any  other  man,  can  hope  to 
escape  this  inescapable  density  of  particularity.  But  his  difference 
is  precisely  that  he  does  not  merely  submit  but  insists  upon  this 
as  his  fate.  It  is  his  own  voice  which  he  wishes  to  resound  in  the 
arena  of  the  world.  He  knows  that  the  work  must  be  his,  and  to 
the  degree  that  it  is  less  than  his,  to  the  degree  that  he  has  not 
risked  the  maximum  of  his  being  in  it,  he  has  missed  the  main 
chance,  his  only  chance.  The  scientist  too  may  insist  on  the  per- 
sonal prerogative  of  discovery:  he  wants  the  new  element,  planet, 
or  equation  to  bear  his  name;  but  if  in  this  claim  for  prestige  he 
responds  to  one  of  the  deepest  urges  of  the  ego,  it  is  only  that 
this  prestige  itself  may  come  to  attend  his  person  through  the  pub- 
lic world  of  other  men;  and  it  is  not  in  the  end  his  own  being  that 
is  exhibited  or  his  own  voice  that  is  heard  in  the  learned  report 
to  the  Academy. 

So  we  have  come  quickly  to  the  point,  and  may  now  let  the 
categories  of  authentic  and  unauthentic  out  of  the  bag.  I  am  not 
very  happy  about  the  terms,  I  wish  we  had  better  in  English,  but 


Writers  and  Madness  393 

it  should  be  clear  from  our  instances  so  far  that  they  are  not 
really  new  notions,  and  that  they  do  come  forth  now  at  the  real 
pinch  of  the  subject  matter.  If  a  certain  amount  of  faddism  has 
recently  and  regrettably  become  attached  to  their  use,  they  have 
on  the  other  hand  also  become  obsessive  for  the  modern  mind — 
a  recommendation  which  we,  existing  historically,  cannot  help  find- 
ing a  little  persuasive.  The  Marxist  will  not  fail  to  point  out  that 
a  highly  developed  technology,  which  is  not  directed  toward  human 
ends  but  capable  on  the  other  hand  of  overrunning  all  areas  of 
the  social  life,  has  plunged  us  into  this  civilization  of  the  slick 
imitation,  celluloid  and  cellophane,  kitsch  and  chromium  plating, 
in  the  morass  of  which  we  come  inevitably  to  speak  of  "the  real 
thing"  and  "the  real  right  thing"  with  an  almost  religious  fervor. 
And  he  will  go  on  to  explain  then  why  the  category  of  authenticity 
should  play  such  a  crucial  role  in  modern  existential  thought.  He 
would  be  right,  of  course,  but  he  ought  also  to  drop  his  bucket 
into  the  deeper  waters  of  the  well.  One  deeper  fact  is  that  modern 
man  has  lost  the  religious  sanctions  which  had  once  surrounded 
his  life  at  every  moment  with  a  recognizable  test  capable  of  telling 
him  whether  he  was  living  "in  the  truth"  or  not;  Hegel  drew  a 
map  of  the  divided  consciousness,  and  Freud  explored  it  empiri- 
cally beyond  anything  Hegel  ever  dreamed,  showing  us,  among 
other  things,  that  Venus  is  the  goddess  of  lies;  and  so  we  come, 
as  creatures  of  the  divided  and  self-alienated  consciousness,  to 
wrestle  with  the  problem  of  how  we  are  to  live  truthfully.  But  if 
these  categories  have  become  historically  inevitable,  and  we  bor- 
row their  formulation  from  existentialist  philosophers,  we  have  on 
the  other  hand  to  insist  that  it  is  not  these  philosophers  who  can 
tell  us,  after  all,  how  authenticity  is  to  be  achieved  either  in  art 
or  life.  Freud,  not  Heidegger,  holds  the  key.  The  mechanism  by 
which  any  work  of  art  becomes  authentic — flooded  in  every  nook 
and  cranny  with  the  personal  being  of  the  author — can  only  be 
revealed  by  the  searchlight  of  psychoanalytic  exploration. 

How  then  is  authenticity — this  strange  and  central  power  of  a 
fantasy  to  convince  us — achieved?  A  first  and  principal  point:  it 
seems  to  involve  a  fairly  complete,  if  temporary,  identification  with 
the  objects  of  fantasy.  The  difference  between  Kafka  and  most  of 


394  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

his  imitators  becomes  a  crucial  instance  here.  When  Kafka  writes 
about  a  hero  who  has  become  an  insect,  about  a  mouse  or  an  ani- 
mal in  a  burrow,  he  is,  during  the  course  of  the  lucid  hallucination 
which  is  his  story,  that  insect,  mouse,  or  animal;  it  is  he  himself 
who  lives  and  moves  through  the  passages  and  chambers  of  his 
burrow;  while  his  imitators,  even  when  they  are  fairly  successful, 
strike  us  as  simply  using  so  much  clever  machinery  borrowed  from 
him  and  often  more  ingeniously  baroque  than  his,  but  which  lacks 
precisely  that  authenticity  of  identification.  But  this  identification 
with  the  objects  of  fantasy  is  also  in  the  direction  of  insanity;  and 
perhaps  this  is  just  what  the  ancients  knew:  that  the  poet  in  in- 
spiration ventures  as  close  to  that  undrawn  border  as  he  can,  for 
the  closer  he  goes  the  more  vitality  he  brings  back  with  him.  The 
game  would  seem  to  be  to  go  as  close  as  possible  without  crossing 
over. 

Now  imagine,  for  a  moment,  Swift  in  the  modern  pattern.  After 
the  downfall  of  the  Harley  ministry  he  retires  to  his  wretched, 
dirty  doghole  and  prison  of  Ireland,  has  a  nervous  breakdown,  a 
crack-up,  is  patched  together  by  several  physicians  and  analysts, 
continues  in  circulation  thereafter  by  drinking  hard  but  spacing 
his  liquor  carefully,  and  dies  at  an  earlier  age  of  cirrhosis  of  the 
liver.  Shall  we  call  this:  Living  on  the  American  Plan?  It  is  the 
violence  of  the  new  world,  after  all,  that  has  made  a  system  of 
violent  drinking.  Now  to  be  drunk  and  to  go  mad  are  both  ways 
of  overcoming  the  world.  If  in  the  interests  of  human  economy  we 
are  left  no  choice  but  to  prefer  the  American  Pattern,  would  we 
not,  however,  feel  a  little  cheated  had  Swift's  actual  history  been 
different?  Before  the  ravening  gaze  of  his  miserable  species  he 
flings  down  his  madness  as  the  gage  of  his  commitment  and  pas- 
sion, and  it  has  now  become  an  inseparable  part  of  the  greatness 
of  the  human  figure  that  rises  out  of  history  toward  us. 

When  Simon  Dedalus  Delany,  amiable  and  easygoing,  remarked 
of  a  mutual  acquaintance  that  "He  was  a  nice  old  gentleman," 
Swift  retorted,  "There  is  no  such  thing  as  a  nice  old  gentleman;  any 
man  who  had  a  body  or  mind  worth  a  farthing  would  have  burned 
them  out  long  ago."  Does  not  this  become  his  own  comment  on 
his  eventual  madness?  The  man  who  retorted  thus,  it  is  clear,  lived 


Writers  and  Madness  395 

with  his  whole  being  flung  continuously  toward  the  future  at  the 
end  of  the  long  corridor  of  which  was  the  placid  if  disordered 
chamber  of  madness.  To  have  gone  mad  in  a  certain  way  might 
almost  seem  one  mode  of  living  authentically:  one  has  perhaps 
looked  at  the  world  without  illusion  and  with  passion.  Nothing 
permits  us  to  separate  this  life  from  this  writing:  if  the  extraordi- 
nary images  the  biography  provides  us — the  old  man  exclaiming, 
over  and  over  again,  "I  am  what  I  am,"  or  sitting  placidly  for 
hours  before  his  Bible  open  on  Job's  lament,  "let  the  day  perish 
wherein  I  was  born," — if  these  move  us  as  symbols  of  a  great 
human  ruin,  they  are  also  the  background  against  which  we  must 
read  the  last  book  of  Gulliver.  The  game  is  to  go  as  close  as 
possible  without  crossing  over:  poor  Gulliver  the  traveler  has  now 
slipped  across  the  border  into  the  country  of  the  mad,  but  this 
journey  itself  was  only  a  continuation  of  the  Voyage  among  the 
Houyhnhnms.  A  moment  comes  and  the  desire  to  escape  takes  on 
a  definite  and  terrible  clothing,  and  the  whole  being  is  shaken  by 
the  convulsions  of  what  we  may  call  the  totem  urge — the  wish  to 
be  an  animal.  Rat's  foot,  crow's  skin,  anything  out  of  this  human 
form!  The  Ainu  dances  and  growls  and  is  a  bear,  the  Bororo  In- 
dians chatter  and  become  parakeets;  Swift  wanted  to  be  a  horse, 
a  beautiful  and  gentle  animal — and  probably  nobler  on  the  whole 
than  most  human  beings.  This  is  the  madness  already  present  in 
Gulliver. 

We  do  not  mean  to  deny  all  the  other  necessary  qualities  that 
are  there:  the  once  laughter-loving  Dean,  lover  of  la  bagatelle, 
King  of  Triflers,  the  great  eighteenth-century  wit,  the  accomplished 
classicist.  Precisely  these  things  give  Swift  the  great  advantage  over 
a  writer  like  Celine,  whose  rage  is,  by  comparison,  choking  and 
inarticulate — like  a  man  spitting  and  snarling  in  our  face  and  in 
the  end  only  about  himself,  so  that  we  are  not  always  sure  whether 
we  are  being  moved  by  literature  or  by  a  mere  document  of  some 
fearful  human  extremity.  What  for  the  moment  I  am  calling  "mad- 
ness," the  perhaps  simpler  thing  the  Greeks  called  "madness," 
must  somehow  flow  freely  along  the  paths  where  all  men  can 
admire.  If  it  erupts  like  a  dam  bursting  it  only  inundates  and 
swamps  the  neighboring  fields;  conducted  into  more  indirect  and 


396  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

elaborate  paths,  it  irrigates  and  flows  almost  hidden  to  the  eye. 
The  flow  from  the  unconscious  of  writer  to  reader  would  seem, 
then,  to  be  more  effective  precisely  where  the  circuit  is  longer 
and  less  direct,  and  capable  therefore  of  encompassing  ampler 
territory  in  its  sweep.  Lucidity,  logic,  form,  objective  dramatiza- 
tion, traditional  style,  taste — all  these  are  channels  into  which  the 
writer  must  let  his  anguish  flow.  And  the  denser  his  literary  situa- 
tion, the  more  he  is  surrounded  by  a  compact  and  articulate  tra- 
dition, the  more  chances  he  can  take  in  casting  himself  adrift.  But 
whatever  Swift's  advantages  in  literary  and  moral  milieu,  we  can- 
not forget  that  he  himself  lived  to  write  his  own  epitaph  and  in 
this  final  summing-up  had  the  last  word  on  the  once  laughter- 
loving  Dean.  And  it  is  just  his  saeva  indignatio — the  mad  wrath 
which,  as  he  said  to  Delany,  did  "eat  his  flesh  and  consume  his 
spirits" — that  establishes  the  deeper  authenticity  of  Gulliver  which 
separates  it  from  any  other  production  of  eighteenth-century  wit. 
He  himself  as  Gulliver  towers  over  his  Lilliputian  enemies,  and 
flees  from  the  disgusting  humans  into  the  quiet  stables  of  the 
horses.  How  far  his  madness  had  already  taken  him,  he  could 
scarcely  have  guessed,  for  it  had  unconsciously  carried  him,  an 
unquestioning  Christian,  for  the  moment  outside  Christianity:  the 
rational  and  tranquil  Houyhnhnms  do  not  need  a  Messiah's  blood 
and  a  historically  revealed  religion  in  order  to  be  saved,  while 
the  Yahoos  could  not  possibly  be  redeemed  by  any  savior.  Swift 
might  not  have  gone  mad  after  writing  Gulliver,  but  much  of  the 
power  of  that  book  comes  from  the  fact  that  he  was  already  on 
the  road. 

Once  a  writer  imposes  his  greatness  on  us  he  imposes  his  figure 
totally,  and  we  then  read  every  scrap  and  scribble  against  the 
whole,  and  we  will  not  find  it  strange  that  Joyce  should  invoke 
even  the  scrawling  of  the  Earwicker  twin  as  part  of  the  image  of 
Everymanthewriter.  The  man  who  wrote  the  charming  prattle  of 
the  Journal  to  Stella  is  the  same  who  comes  to  howl  at  bay  before 
the  human  race.  In  his  life  he  made  two  bluestockings  love  him 
desperately  (a  significant  choice  this,  that  they  should  be  blue- 
stockings; but  one,  to  his  surprise,  turned  out,  as  sometimes  hap- 
pens, a  very  passionate  bluestocking);  and  one  he  loved  all  his 


Writers  and  Madness  397 

life  long.  In  the  simple  Prayers  for  Stella,  sublimating,  he  gropes, 
touches,  fondles  her  in  God.  What  happened  beyond  this  we  do 
not  know.  But  we  need  no  very  fanciful  imagination  to  guess  the 
frustration  which  produces  that  mingled  disgust  and  fascination  at 
the  biology  of  the  female  body.  He  did  more,  however,  than  re- 
lease this  into  a  few  scatological  verses  about  milady  at  and  on 
her  toilet;  he  was  able  to  project  his  frustration  and  rage  into  the 
helpless  Irish  face  about  him,  the  insouciant  Saxon  face,  church- 
men, bishops,  Lord  Mayors,  quacks,  and  pedants;  "the  corruptions 
and  villainies  of  men  in  power";  and  through  these  into  a  total 
vision  of  the  human  condition. 

Here  at  last  we  come  close  to  the  secret:  if  one  characteristic 
of  neurosis  is  always  a  displacement  somewhere,  then  perhaps  the 
test  of  a  writer's  achievement  may  be  precisely  the  extent  and 
richness  of  displacement  he  is  able  to  effect.  In  the  process  of  liter- 
ary expression,  the  neurotic  mass  acquires  energies  which  are  di- 
rected toward  reality  and  seek  their  satisfaction  in  reality.  As  the 
writer  displaces  the  neurotic  mass  further  afield  he  is  led  to  incor- 
porate larger  and  larger  areas  of  experience  into  his  vision.  Every- 
thing begins  to  appear  then  as  if  the  world  he  pictures  were  itself 
sufficient  to  generate  this  vision  (which  we  may  know,  in  fact,  to 
have  been  rather  the  product  of  quite  unconscious  compulsions 
and  conflicts);  as  if  the  ego,  really  master  in  its  own  house,  were 
simply  responding  appropriately  to  the  world  as  seen  in  the  book. 
Thus  the  peculiar  sense  of  conquest  and  liberation  that  follows 
literary  creation  cannot  be  analyzed  solely  as  that  fulfillment  of 
wishes  which  normally  occurs  in  daydreaming  or  fantasy.  Why  in 
that  case  would  it  be  necessary  to  complete  the  literary  work  at 
all?  And  why  should  the  liberation  it  gives  be  so  much  more  pow- 
erful and  durable?  No;  this  conquest  is  also  one  for  the  ego  itself, 
which  now  seems  momentarily  to  have  absorbed  the  unconscious 
into  itself  so  that  the  neurotic  disgust  itself  appears  an  appropriate 
response  to  reality.  And  if  this  is  an  illusion  from  the  analyst's 
point  of  view,  it  may  not  always  be  an  illusion  from  the  moralist's 
point  of  view.  The  world  as  it  appears  in  Swift's  writings  is,  in 
the  end,  adequate  to  his  madness. 


398  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

POWER  AND  GUILT 

Now  Swift's  (unlike  Cowper's,  to  cite  another  literary  madman) 
was  a  very  strong  ego,  and  the  fact  that  he  broke  in  old  age  only 
tells  us  how  great  were  the  visions,  tensions,  and  repressions  he 
had  to  face.  We  do  not  know  enough  to  establish  his  "case,"  but 
we  know  enough  to  say  that  his  madness  probably  did  not  have  its 
source  in  the  literary  condition  at  all — however  much  incipient 
madness  may  have  informed  and  made  powerful  his  writings. 

Do  we  build  too  much  on  his  example  then?  Perhaps;  but  his 
figure,  in  its  broad  strong  outlines  (and  the  very  simplicity  of 
these  outlines  is  to  our  advantage  here),  takes  such  a  grip  on  the 
imagination  that,  pursuing  this  rather  nocturnal  meditation,  I  am 
loath  to  let  him  drop.  He  has  taken  us  so  far  already  that  it  seems 
worth-while  to  journey  a  little  way  with  him  still  into  the  darkness. 

Certainly  there  is  nothing,  or  very  little,  about  Swift  to  make 
him  a  modern  figure.  He  sits  so  solidly  amid  the  prejudices  and 
virtues  of  his  age  that  we  search  in  vain  for  any  ideas  in  him  that 
would  seem  to  anticipate  us.  He  was  a  man  of  parts  rather  than 
of  ideas;  and  his  very  "rationality"  is  a  kind  of  eighteenth-century 
prejudice,  having  little  in  common  with  what  we  struggle  toward 
as  our  own,  or  even  what  the  same  century  later  in  France  was 
to  discover  so  triumphantly  as  its  own.  He  lived  before  modern 
political  alternatives  became  very  real  or  meaningful,  and  only  his 
human  hatred  of  the  abuses  of  power  might  connect  him  remotely 
with  some  of  our  own  attitudes.  As  a  literary  man,  he  is  at  the 
farthest  distance  from  that  neurotic  specialist,  the  modern  litter- 
ateur; he  is  not  even  a  professional  literary  man  in  the  sense  of 
his  contemporary,  Pope,  much  less  in  the  sense  of  the  consecrated 
rentier,  Flaubert.  Thus  we  have  no  quarrel  at  all  with  certain  pro- 
fessorial critics  who  point  out  that  Swift  was  primarily  interested 
in  power  and  that  he  came  by  writing  as  an  instrument  of  power 
or  simply  as  a  diversion.  (What  an  unhappy  conclusion,  though, 
if  we  thought  we  had  therefore  to  exclude  him  from  something 
called  "literature"!)  And  we  might  even  go  along  a  certain  way 
with  the  generous  hint  of  these  critics  that  the  frustration  of  his 


Writers  and  Madness  399 

desires  for  power  explains  both  his  misanthropy  and  final  insanity. 

But  does  not  logic  teach  us  that  an  induction  is  strengthened 
more  by  a  confirming  instance  further  afield?  and  which  at  first 
glance  might  not  seem  to  fall  altogether  under  the  class  in  ques- 
tion? And  if  Swift,  who  sits  so  solidly  in  his  own  age,  leads  us, 
when  we  but  plunge  deeply  enough,  into  the  world  of  the  modern 
writer,  should  we  not  feel  all  the  more  assured  that  we  have  got 
at  least  a  little  below  the  surface?  Already,  beneath  the  solid  out- 
lines of  his  eighteenth-century  figure,  I  begin  to  descry  the  shad- 
ows and  depths  of  a  psychic  type,  the  writer — which  has  emerged, 
to  be  sure,  spectacularly  only  in  the  two  following  centuries. 

Now  the  trouble  with  the  professors  (and  not  only  when  they 
censure  Swift  for  his  craving  for  power)  is  that  they  have  un- 
consciously created  a  figure  of  the  writer  in  their  own  image:  a 
well-bred  person  with  well-tubbed  and  scrubbed  motives,  who  ap- 
proaches something  specialized  and  disinterested  that  they  call  "lit- 
erature" as  if  his  function  in  the  end  were  merely  to  provide  them 
with  books  to  teach.  Perhaps  the  great  writers  themselves  have 
unwittingly  helped  toward  this  deception?  Has  any  one  of  them 
ever  told  us  why  he  had  to  become  a  writer?  They  tell  us  instead: 
"To  hold  a  mirror  up  to  nature";  "To  carry  a  mirror  dawdling 
down  a  lane";  "To  forge  the  uncreated  conscience  of  my  race"; 
etc.,  etc. — great  blazons  of  triumph,  formulae  of  their  extraordi- 
nary achievement,  before  which  we  forget  even  to  ask  why  they 
had  to  become  writers.  The  great  writer  is  the  victorious  suitor 
who  has  captured  a  beautiful  bride  in  an  incomparable  marriage. 
There  seems  almost  no  point  in  asking  him  why  he  had  to  love 
and  seek  marriage:  his  reasons  seem  all  too  abundant,  he  has  only 
to  point  to  the  incomparable  attractions  of  his  beloved.  He  has 
lost  his  private  compulsions  in  the  general — in  the  positive  and 
admirable  qualities,  known  to  all  men,  of  the  thing  achieved.  (The 
Kierkegaardians,  by  the  way,  should  remind  themselves  that  life 
must  be  just  such  a  conquest  and  appropriation  of  universals.) 
But  life  does  not  contain  only  such  happy  bridegrooms,  otherwise 
we  might  never  know  all  the  enormities  and  paradoxes  of  love; 
and  if  there  were  only  great  geniuses  among  writers,  perhaps  we 
might  never  know  this  other  truth:  the  compulsions  and  paradoxes 


400  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

on  the  dark  side  of  their  calling — which  they,  the  great  ones,  could 
afford  to  forget  in  the  daylight  blaze  of  their  triumph. 

The  mistake  is  not  to  have  invoked  the  idea  of  power  but,  once 
invoked,  not  to  have  seen  it  through:  we  have  but  to  pursue  it  far 
enough  and  we  can  find  it  present  everywhere  in  Swift's  writings, 
and  indeed  the  central  impulse  of  his  prose  itself  (perhaps  the 
best  in  English).  What  is  that  stripped  and  supple  syntax  but  the 
design  of  greatest  possible  economy  and  force,  by  which  he 
launches  each  sentence  at  its  mark  like  a  potent  and  well-aimed 
missile?  (And  each  missile  thuds  against  the  bestial  human  face 
from  which  he  would  escape.)  Swift's  lack  of  interest  in  being  a 
literary  man  as  such  may  account,  then,  for  some  of  his  strongest 
qualities.  The  conception  of  literature  as  an  instrument  or  a  diver- 
sion or  even  a  vanity  may  exist  along  with  the  power  to  produce 
the  greatest  literature:  Pascal's  conviction  of  the  vanity  of  elo- 
quence is  one  reason  why  he  is  a  greater  prose  writer  than  Valery, 
the  aesthete,  who  mocks  at  this  conviction.  Here  it  seems  almost 
as  if  from  examining  Swift's  writings  themselves  we  might  arrive 
at  Freud's  perception:  that  the  writer  is  more  than  commonly  ob- 
sessed by  a  desire  for  power  which  he  seeks  to  gratify  through  his 
public  fantasies. 

Because  of  an  introverted  disposition,  he  is  unable  to  gratify 
this  desire  in  the  usual  arenas  of  external  action.  Introversion  is 
the  brand  of  his  calling:  he  is  the  divided  man,  his  consciousness 
always  present  but  a  little  absent,  hovering  over  itself,  ready  to 
pounce  and  bring  back  some  fragment  to  his  notebooks.  The  intro- 
verted disposition  suggests  some  excessive  and  compelling  need  to 
be  loved;  and  we  would  suspect  that  here  too  it  must  result  pri- 
mally  from  some  special  strength  or  strain  in  the  Oedipal  relation. 
But  whatever  our  speculation  as  to  its  source,  the  point  of  power 
remains  clear;  and  if  he  seeks  it  by  a  detour,  the  writer's  claims 
are  nonetheless  total:  it  is  power  of  the  most  subtle  kind  that  the 
writer  wants,  power  over  the  mind  and  freedom  of  other  human 
beings,  his  readers. 

Such  extraordinary  claims  of  power,  and  particularly  their  in- 
directness of  gratification,  suggest  immediately  an  ambivalent  con- 
nection with  that  more  than  usually  acute  sense  of  guilt  with  which 


Writers  and  Madness  401 

writers  as  a  class  seem  to  be  endowed.  (That  Swift  suffered  from 
extraordinary  obsessions  of  guilt  toward  the  end  of  his  life,  we 
know  by  accounts  of  several  sources;  but  most  of  his  life,  since 
he  accepted  Christianity  without  question,  these  guilt  feelings  were 
tapped  and  drained  off  into  religion;  hence  it  is  that  in  his  writing 
we  usually  encounter  the  aggressive  and  outgoing  parts  of  his  per- 
sonality.) Georges  Blin,  in  "The  Gash"  (Partisan  Review,  Spring 
1946),  has  presented  very  eloquently  some  of  the  sadistic  motives 
that  operate  in  the  artist.  We  should  expect — in  accordance  with 
the  usual  ambivalence — a  masochistic  pattern  to  be  equally  oper- 
ative, and  perhaps  even  more  to  the  fore  because  of  the  essential 
indirectness  of  the  artist's  drives  toward  power  and  sadism.  What 
else  explains  the  writer's  extraordinary  eagerness  for  the  painful 
humility  of  his  yoke  as  he  crouches  over  his  desk  stubbornly  weav- 
ing and  reweaving  his  own  being  hundreds  of  times?  "Thought, 
study,  sacrifice,  and  mortification" — how  he  trembles  with  joy  to 
put  on  these  hair  shirts  of  his  solitude  and  calling!  These  punish- 
ments he  inflicts  upon  himself  over  his  desk  will  help  to  make 
clear  then  why  writing  should  satisfy  the  claims  of  guilt  upon  him; 
why  he  should  search  so  passionately  for  redemption  upon  the 
written  page,  and  why  as  the  paragraph  takes  shape  beneath  his 
pen  he  can  feel  for  moments  that  his  step  has  become  a  little  less 
heavy  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  But  we  should  also  know  this 
ambivalence  of  power  and  guilt  from  phenomenological  scrutiny. 
We  never  live  in  a  purely  private  world,  our  consciousness  is  pene- 
trated at  every  point  by  the  consciousness  of  others,  and  what  is 
it  but  one  step  from  seeking  redemption  in  one's  own  eyes  to  seek- 
ing it  in  the  eyes  of  others?  The  movement  by  which  we  stoop  to 
lift  ourselves  out  of  the  pit  of  self-contempt  is  one  and  unbroken 
with  that  thrust  which  would  carry  us  above  the  shoulders  of  our 
fellowmen. 

And  is  not  this  ambivalent  urge  to  power-guilt  but  the  sign  of 
that  excessive  need  to  be  loved  which  has  driven  the  writer  into 
a  profession  where  he  must  speak  with  his  own  voice,  offer  to  the 
public  gaze  of  the  world  so  much  of  his  own  existence?  Love  to 
be  conquered  by  force,  or  taken  as  a  gift  of  tenderness  and  pity 
for  his  confession. 


402  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

But  both  the  satisfaction  (of  power)  and  relief  (from  guilt), 
though  they  glow  brightly,  glow,  alas,  only  for  moments,  and  we 
live  again  in  the  shadow  of  ourselves.  Nothing  in  the  world  (we 
are  told)  is  a  substitute  for  anything  else,  and  if  there  is  a  point 
beyond  which  the  writer  can  never  satisfy  these  urges  in  literature 
itself,  then  this  inability  can  no  longer  be  regarded  as  peculiar  to 
Swift,  a  deficiency  of  his  "case,"  but  an  essential  and  mortifying 
aspect  of  the  literary  condition  everywhere.  So  we  come  back  to 
our  point:  Swift  is  certainly  not  a  modern  literary  man,  but  we 
only  had  to  go  deep  enough,  and  we  have  arrived  at  a  world  of 
impulses  and  motives  that  we  recognize  as  our  own. 


THE  MODERNS— AYTRE'S  JOURNEY 

Despite  the  ancient  recognition,  the  modern  world  of  the 
crack-up  and  breakdown  has  really  become  a  new  and  almost  dis- 
continuous phenomenon.  (First  the  continuity;  now  we  must  do 
justice  to  the  other  aspect,  the  discontinuity  of  the  modern.)  It 
is  time  we  had  an  exhaustive  and  statistical  study  of  the  problem, 
done  with  the  grubbing  thoroughness  of  a  Ph.D.  thesis;  for  the 
present  I  would  only  suggest  some  of  the  main  statistical  cate- 
gories: the  madmen,  those  who  broke,  Swift,  Cowper,  William 
Collins,  Christopher  Smart,  Hoelderlin,  Ruskin;  figures  who  were 
not  altogether  normal,  if  not  altogether  mad,  like  Blake;  who,  like 
Coleridge  and  DeQuincey,  had  to  salvage  themselves  through  drugs 
(the  Romantic  equivalent  of  the  American  Pattern) ;  or  who  pro- 
duce their  writing  out  of  a  maximum  anxiety,  their  personal  rack 
of  torture,  like  Baudelaire  and  Eliot;  and  from  these  on  we  could 
ramify  off  into  all  the  various  subtler  neuroses  that  have  afflicted 
literary  men.  Even  from  this  sketchy  suggestion  of  a  list  it  begins 
to  appear  that  the  incidence  of  aberration,  neurosis,  or  outright 
madness  is  such  that  one  really  begins  to  doubt  whether  these  mis- 
fortunes are  accidental  to  the  profession  of  letters  as  such.1  And 
at  this  point  perhaps  we  ought  to  face  openly  the  question  whether 
there  is  not  some  original  flaw — original  sin,  if  you  will — about 
the  profession  such  that  the  writer's  struggle  to  live  it  out  com- 


Writers  and  Madness  403 

pletely  must  inevitably  involve  him  in  some  kind  of  hubris;  and 
whether,  after  all,  the  game  is  really  worth  the  candle.  Freud  at 
one  earlier  point  did  suggest  something  like  this:  that  art  is  a 
survival  in  our  day  of  primitive  magic,  with  some  of  the  magical 
still  hanging  about  its  aspirations;  which  did  not  at  all  prevent 
him,  we  may  notice,  from  deriving  very  deep  pleasure  and  insight 
from  great  works  of  literature. 

The  fault,  the  accumulating  difficulty,  seem  to  come  from  the 
very  advance  itself  of  Western  culture  and  history.  In  a  story  by 
Jean  Paulhan,  "Aytre  qui  perd  I'habitude"  (Aytre  Loses  the 
Knack),  the  hero  keeps  a  journal  while  leading  a  trek  across 
Madagascar.  En  route  across  the  country  the  entries  in  the  journal 
are  very  simple  and  direct:  we  arrive,  leave,  chickens  cost  seven 
sous,  we  lay  in  a  provision  of  medicines,  etc.  But  with  the  arrival 
in  the  city  of  Ambositra  the  journal  suddenly  becomes  compli- 
cated: discussions  of  ideas,  women's  headdresses,  strange  scenes 
and  characters  in  the  street.  The  most  ordinary  incidents  of  daily 
life  become  complicated  and  almost  unexpressible  to  Aytre  strug- 
gling to  keep  his  journal.  Paulhan  is  after  other  game  in  this  tale, 
where  we  need  not  follow  him;  enough  for  us  that  we  can  take  this 
journey  of  Aytre  for  a  symbol  of  the  march  of  writers  in  history  as 
they  progress  toward  subjects  ever  more  complex,  driven  by  the 
compulsion  to  "make  it  new."  From  this  point  of  view  Paulhan's 
title  itself  becomes  something  of  a  misnomer:  Aytre's  trouble  is 
not  that  he  has  lost  the  knack — quite  the  contrary,  he  now  has 
altogether  too  much  of  it.  Become  infinitely  complicated,  all- 
absorbing,  possessive,  now  the  knack  has  him.  Aytre,  in  short,  has 
become  a  modern  writer.  He  had  begun  as  the  simple  scribe  of  the 
clan. 

"Make  it  new,"  Pound  cried,  and  Eliot  further  explicated:  Mod- 
ern poetry  must  be  complicated  because  modern  life  is  complicated. 
Both  have  passed  into  famous  slogans  in  defense  of  modernism; 
but  both  abbreviate  what  is  a  much  more  complicated  process,  and 
have  to  be  expanded  in  the  light  or  darkness  of  Aytre's  painful 
journey.  The  writer  objectifies  his  fantasies  (that  much  of  Freudian 
formula  we  have  to  use  in  any  case)  but  he  must  return  to  view 
them  with  the  analytic  eyes  of  daylight  and  criticism.  But  this  real- 


404  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

ity  to  which  he  submits  is  not  what  he  meets  if  he  gazes  out  into 
the  world  with  the  naked  eyes  of  the  first-born  man;  the  reality 
principle  for  the  writer  is  one  qualified  by  the  works,  the  recorded 
experience  and  knowledge  of  man,  already  in  existence.  After 
Proust  no  one  can  write  about  love  with  the  old  charming  simplicity 
of  Prevost.  It  would  be  pastiche:  archaic  and  unauthentic.  In 
Prevost  it  charms  us,  it  is  real  and  convincing.  At  his  cultural 
moment,  love — as  the  simple  lovely  disease  of  sensibility — was 
itself  an  extraordinary  donnee,  and  the  writer  could  find  such  re- 
lease in  it  that  he  was  capable  of  the  necessary  identification  with 
his  fantasy.  (Even  when  a  form  like  the  novel  swings  back  mo- 
mentarily into  a  simpler  pattern,  the  new  simplicity  is  quite  dif- 
ferent from  the  old;  the  simplicity  of  Gide  is  not  the  old  simplicity 
of  the  classical  French  novel,  but  a  new  one — self-conscious,  diffi- 
cult, refined,  defining  its  slender  fine  from  the  sum  of  its  rejec- 
tions.) Hence  it  appears  that  Pound's  manifesto,  and  Eliot's  rec- 
ommendation of  a  complication  to  parallel  the  complication  of 
modern  life,  formulate  effect  rather  than  cause;  we  ought  instead 
to  put  it  that  the  writer,  existing  in  his  time,  in  his  place,  and  with 
his  past  must  make  such  discoveries  as  to  secure  the  completeness 
of  release  necessary  to  achieve  authenticity.  If  he  repeats  what  is 
already  discovered,  he  has  no  chance  of  making  it  Ms.  That  is  why 
his  existence  is  relentlessly  historical  and  he  has  to  travel  Aytre's 
journey.  Now  the  reality  principle  functions  in  life  chiefly  (or  its 
function  is  felt  more  forcibly  there)  to  inhibit  the  gratification  of 
desire.  Its  literary  analogue  functions  in  the  same  way:  it  checks 
the  writer  from  releasing  himself  into  the  fantasies  that  are  unreal, 
trivial,  or  superficial.  To  find  his  authenticity,  a  material  into 
which  he  is  completely  released,  the  writer  has  now  to  dig  ever 
deeper,  the  unconscious  that  is  released  must  be  at  deeper  and 
deeper  levels.  So  he  finds,  like  Aytre,  the  literary  "knack"  become 
absorbing  and  terrifying.  Hence  the  burden  of  neurosis  that  weighs 
more  and  more  heavily  upon  the  modern  man  of  letters. 


Writers  and  Madness  405 

INCREASING  BURDENS 

The  more  gifted  the  writer  the  more  likely  he  is  to  be  critically 
conscious  of  his  literary  tradition — the  more  conscious,  that  is,  of 
the  reality  principle  as  it  operates  in  the  literary  sphere — and  the 
harder  it  becomes  for  him  to  fall  into  one  of  the  easy  publicist  styles 
of  his  day.  Recently  I  read  about  a  young  writer  who  had  written 
a  best-seller  in  four  weeks  and  made  $400,000  out  of  it — $100,000 
a  week,  almost  as  good  pay  as  a  movie  star.  If  books  could  be 
written  from  the  top  of  one's  mind  merely  (even  books  of  this 
kind),  it  is  naive  to  think  a  major  writer  would  not  do  it:  after 
four  weeks  of  absence  he  returns  to  support  himself  for  many  years 
in  the  prosecution  of  his  own  unremunerative  and  serious  tasks. 
But  it  seems  impossible  to  write  a  best-seller  in  complete  parody, 
one  has  to  believe  in  one's  material  even  there,  and  it  is  impossible 
to  fake  unless  one  is  a  fake.  Joyce  has  written  in  Ulysses  a  superb 
parody  of  the  sentimental  romance  for  schoolgirls,  but  it  is  quite 
obvious  from  that  chapter  that  Joyce  could  not  have  turned  out  a 
novel  in  this  genre  for  money:  his  irony  and  self-consciousness 
would  have  got  in  the  way,  and  the  book  would  not  have  attracted 
its  readers  but  in  the  end  only  Joyce's  readers.  The  writer  writes 
what  he  can,  and  if  he  decides  to  sell  out  it  is  by  corrupting  and 
cheapening  his  own  level,  or  perhaps  slipping  down  a  step  below 
it;  but  writing  is  not  so  uncommitted  an  intellectual  effort  that  he 
can  drop  down  facilely  to  a  very  much  lower  level  and  operate 
with  enough  skill  there  to  convince  that  kind  of  reader.  Joyce  did 
not  write  Finnegans  Wake  out  of  a  free  decision  taken  in  the  void, 
but  because  his  experience  of  life  and  Western  culture  was  what  it 
was,  and  he  had  to  write  that  book  if  he  was  to  write  anything. 

It  is  perhaps  not  a  very  pleasant  thought,  but  it  seems  inescap- 
able, that  even  the  commonest  best-seller  is  the  product  of  the 
personal  being  of  the  author  and  demands  its  own  kind  of  authen- 
ticity. Life  also  imprisons  us  in  its  rewards;  and  we  may  draw  some 
satisfaction  from  the  thought  that  these  gay  reapers  of  prestige 
and  money,  if  they  are  to  keep  on  terms  with  their  audience,  can 
have  in  the  end  only  lives  adequate  to  their  books:  On  ecrit  le 


406  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

livre  qu'on  merite.  Our  satisfaction  might  be  greater  if  we  were 
not  on  the  other  hand  also  painfully  acquainted  with  the  opposite 
phenomenon:  the  gifted  people  who  find  it  difficult  to  produce 
precisely  because  they  are  too  intelligent  and  sensitive  to  tailor 
their  writing  to  the  reigning  market.  The  very  awareness  of  stand- 
ards inhibits  them  from  writing,  and,  not  being  geniuses,  they  are 
unable  to  break  through  and  produce  anything  adequate  to  those 
standards.  The  literary  future  in  America,  and  perhaps  the  West 
generally,  seems  to  be  leading  to  this  final  and  lamentable  split:  on 
the  one  hand,  an  enormous  body  of  run-of-the-mill  writing  (ma- 
chine-made, as  it  were),  becoming  ever  more  slick  as  it  becomes 
more  technically  adequate  through  abundant  competition  and  ap- 
propriation of  the  tricks  of  previous  serious  writing,  and  in  the 
end  generating  its  own  types  of  pseudo  authenticity,  like  Stein- 
beck or  Marquand;  on  the  other  hand,  an  occasional  genius  break- 
ing through  this  wall  here  and  there,  at  ever  more  costly  price  in 
personal  conflict,  anguish,  and  difficulty.  Modern  poetry  already 
provides  us  its  own  and  extreme  version  of  this  exacerbating  split; 
think  of  the  extremity  of  personal  difficulty  required  to  produce 
the  authentic  poetry  of  our  time:  the  depth  of  anguish  which  se- 
creted the  few  poems  of  Eliot;  and  Yeats,  we  remember,  had  to 
struggle  through  a  long  life  of  political  unrest,  personal  heartbreak, 
see  the  friends  and  poets  of  his  youth  die  off  or  kill  themselves, 
before  he  came  into  his  own  and  could  produce  poems  capable 
of  convincing  us  that  this  poetry  was  not  merely  a  kind  of  "solemn 
game." 

Some  of  the  more  internal  difficulties  that  beset  the  pursuit  of 
literature  are  being  very  much  discussed  in  France  by  writers  like 
Maurice  Blanchot  and  Brice  Parain.  Blanchot  finishes  one  essay,  in 
which  he  has  explored  certain  aspects  of  anxiety,  silence,  and  ex- 
pression, with  the  devastating  remark,  "It  is  enough  that  literature 
should  continue  to  seem  possible,"  though  the  reader  by  the  time 
he  has  waded  through  Blanchot's  rarefactions  to  that  point  may 
very  well  have  lost  the  conviction  that  even  the  possibility  re- 
mained. These  French  researches  are  of  a  quite  special  character, 
continuing  the  tradition  of  Mallarme — or,  rather,  attempting  to  see 
the  aesthetic  problems  of  Mallarme  from  the  human  anguish  of 


Writers  and  Madness  407 

Pascal.  (As  the  burdens  of  civilization  become  heavier  and  we  see 
existence  itself  with  fewer  illusions,  we  have  come  perhaps  to  share 
Pascal's  attitude  toward  poetry:  a  vanity,  a  "solemn  game";  at 
any  rate,  we  seem  to  demand  more  of  the  modern  writer  before 
we  take  him  very  seriously. )  These  difficulties  are  extreme  and  we 
need  not  share  them  in  that  form:  after  the  rigors  to  which 
Mallarme  submitted  poetry  in  his  search  for  a  "langage  authen- 
tique,"  no  wonder  silence  should  appear  as  the  only  and  haunting 
possibility  of  speech.  After  Mallarme,  poetry  had  to  swing  back 
toward  the  language  of  what  he  calls  "universel  reportage,"  and 
Eliot's  poetry  has  shown  us  that  this  language,  suitably  charged 
and  concentrated,  can  be  the  vehicle  of  very  great  poetry.  Blanchot's 
difficulties  persist  but  in  another  form  (especially  in  a  commercial 
culture).  Not  silence  but  garrulousness  ("unauthenic  chatter,"  as 
Heidegger  would  say)  may  be  the  threat  confronting  the  writer; 
but  always  and  everywhere  the  difficulty  of  securing  authenticity. 
The  difficulties  we  face  in  America — a  society  which  turns,  as 
Van  Wyck  Brooks  says,  its  most  gifted  men  into  crackpots — are 
obviously  of  a  much  more  external  and  violent  kind  than  in  France. 
External  pressures  abet  the  internal  tensions,  which  become  un- 
endurable, and  at  long  last  comes  that  slide  over  into  the  more 
tranquil  and  private  self-indulgence  of  fantasy  with  a  consequent 
weakening  of  the  reality  principle.  One  (a  critic)  develops  a  pri- 
vate language;  another  spins  out  elaborate  literary  theories  without 
content  or  relevance;  a  third  has  maintained  his  literary  alertness 
and  eye  for  relevance  through  a  sheer  aggressiveness  which  has 
cost  him  his  ability  to  maintain  personal  relations — and  which 
appears  therefore  in  his  work  as  a  mutilation  too.  Scott  Fitzgerald's 
confidante  in  "The  Crack-up"  (perhaps  his  most  mature  piece  of 
writing,  at  that)  gives  him  the  extraordinary  advice:  "Listen.  Sup- 
pose this  wasn't  a  crack  in  you — suppose  it  was  in  the  Grand 
Canyon.  .  .  .  By  God,  if  I  ever  cracked,  I'd  try  to  make  the  whole 
world  crack  with  me."  And  she  was  right  and  profound,  but  Fitz- 
gerald was  tied  by  too  many  strings  to  the  values  of  American  life 
to  see  her  truth.  His  crack-up  was  the  dawning  of  a  truth  upon 
him  which  he  could  not  completely  grasp  or  recognize  intellectu- 
ally. Swift  in  that  position  would  have  seen  that  the  crack  is  in 


408  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  Grand  Canyon,  in  the  whole  world,  in  the  total  human  face 
about  him.  If  he  is  powerful  enough — now  against  greater  odds — 
to  make  the  world  crack  in  his  work,  the  writer  has  at  the  least 
the  gratification  of  revenge,  and  the  ego  that  deeper  conquest  (de- 
scribed above)  where  its  anguish  now  seems  no  more  than  an 
appropriate  response  to  a  world  portrayed  (and  with  some  fidelity) 
as  cracked.  But,  alas,  these  energies  which  seek  reality  and  are 
capable  of  transforming  the  neurotic  mass  into  the  writer's  special 
and  unique  vision  of  the  world  can  also  be  blocked  by  the  external 
difficulties  in  the  literary  situation.  And  when  that  happens  we 
open  the  door,  as  Freud  says,  to  the  psychoses — at  any  rate,  to 
the  breakdown  and  crack-up. 


ABI  VIATOR  ET  1  MIT  ARE  SI  POTERIS2 

And  so  I  am  brought  back  into  the  center  of  my  theme.  If  I 
appeared  to  have  abandoned  the  theme  of  neurosis  for  the  difficul- 
ties, external  and  internal,  that  confront  the  modern  writer,  it  was 
only  because  these  difficulties  as  part  of  his  alienation  are  the 
aggravating  causes  and  public  face  of  his  madness. 

But  why  (in  the  end)  should  it  be  the  writer's  fate — more  than 
of  any  other  intellectual  profession — to  confront  this  crack  in  the 
face  of  the  world?  Because  his  subject  is  the  very  world  of  experi- 
ence as  such,  and  it  is  this  world,  this  total  world,  which  he  must 
somehow  salvage.  The  scientist  has  his  appointed  place  in  the  com- 
munity of  researchers,  he  confronts  carefully  delimited  fragments 
of  experience,  the  data  from  which  he  proceeds  are  publicly  recog- 
nizable, and  his  whole  being  is  to  be,  as  it  were,  an  incarnate  out- 
ward public  mind.  But  the  writer  is  alone — potentially  twenty-four 
hours  a  day,  the  luminal  pill  and  the  writing  pad  beside  his  bed  for 
whatever  welcome  or  unwelcome  presence  comes  that  night.  On  the 
other  hand,  it  might  seem  that  the  philosopher,  since  he  confronts 
in  his  own  way  the  totality  of  experience,  might  also  show  some 
fatal  tendency  toward  aberration.  But  the  philosopher  deals  with 
concepts  and  out  of  these  he  may  construct  some  kind  of  "mean- 
ing" for  the  world:  when  speculative  systems  were  still  believed,  he 


Writers  and  Madness  409 

had  only  to  be  agile  enough  to  design  one  of  these  towering  arks 
of  salvation,  and  what  if  it  leaked  a  little,  he  was  a  professor  and 
he  had  something  to  do  the  rest  of  his  professorial  life  plugging 
its  gaps;  now  when  the  pretense  to  speculative  theories  is  no  longer 
even  taken  seriously  the  philosopher  can  construct  an  equally  elab- 
orate theory  showing  that  the  question  itself  has  no  meaning,  and 
so  philosophy  continues  to  be  possible.  Whatever  the  impasse  of 
insoluble  antinomies  at  which  his  thought  finally  arrives,  he  can 
continue  to  arrange  these  in  neat  parallel  columns,  chip  away  at 
their  edges  and  perpetually  recast  their  statement  as  if  preparing 
bit  by  bit  for  a  solution  which  in  fact  never  arrives;  and  so  con- 
tinues in  business,  he  has  something  to  say,  he  "gets  published"; 
and  after  the  initial  shocks  and  disturbance  mankind  has  shown 
itself  capable  of  settling  down  peacefully  into  positivism,  and  few 
people  are  more  intellectually  adjusted  than  the  positivists.  But  it  is 
not  at  the  level  of  concepts  that  the  appalling  face  of  the  world  is 
seen,  and  it  is  another  kind  of  "meaning"  that  the  writer  must  con- 
struct. Out  of  the  ravages  of  his  experience,  his  desperate  loneli- 
ness, he  must  put  forth  those  works  which  look  back  into  his  gaze 
with  conviction  and  authenticity  and  wear  about  them  the  gleams 
of  interest — cathectic  charges,  in  the  technical  term — which  have 
fled  from  the  vast  bare  blank  face  of  the  world  as  seen  in  the  ex- 
treme situations  of  his  truth:  in  sleeplessness,  the  nervous  dark- 
ness, against  death  and  against  the  inexorable  and  dragging  vista 
of  time  which  is  his  being. 


1  The  reader  should  compare,  for  a  somewhat  different  view  of  the  matter, 
Mr.  Lionel  Trilling's  "Art  and  Neurosis,"  Partisan  Review  (Winter  1945). 
By  indicating  my  disagreements  with  Mr.  Trilling's  admirable  essay,  perhaps 
I  may  sum  up,  in  more  scientific  terms,  the  psychoanalytic  view  which  lies 
at  the  base  (perhaps  a  little  hidden)  of  my  own  discussion. 

Mr.  Trilling's  main  point,  perhaps,  is  that  neurosis  by  itself  will  not  make 
anyone  a  great  writer;  a  proposition  with  which  I  am  in  complete  agreement. 

I  would  also  agree  with  him  that  there  are  many  neurotics  among  busi- 
nessmen and  scientists  (though  I  doubt  the  scientists  could  match  the  inci- 
dence among  literary  men).  But  granting  such  widespread  latent  neuroticism 
(the  wives  of  businessmen  could  tell  us  a  lot,  if  they  chose),  the  point  would 
be  that  with  the  writer  it  is  not  latent  but  consciously  exploited.  My  differ- 
ence with  Mr.  Trilling  is  that  I  do  not  consider  the  question  as  primarily 


410  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

statistical:  whether  a  certain  group  known  as  scientists  contains  as  many 
neurotics  as  another  group  called  writers.  My  main  point,  rather,  is  one 
about  the  literary  process  itself:  that  this  process  does,  in  a  certain  way,  imi- 
tate the  neurotic  process  and  does  exploit  neurotic  material. 

Here  it  is  pertinent  to  indicate  my  principal  disagreement  with  Freud, 
who  analyzes  the  effect  of  a  literary  work  in  terms  of  the  pleasure  obtained 
from  fantasies  and  daydreams.  This  may  do  justice  to  our  childish  delight  in 
romances — or  to  the  level  at  which  we  read  Gulliver's  Travels  in  childhood. 
But  it  hardly  does  justice  to  the  power  which  the  fiction  of  Kafka,  Joyce,  or 
Proust  has  over  us  in  our  adult  years.  I  hold  instead  that  it  is  the  writer's 
identification  with  his  fantasy,  rather  than  the  aspect  of  fantasy  itself,  which 
has  power  over  us,  convinces  us.  (The  phenomenon  of  identification,  by  the 
way,  is  very  sparingly  discussed  by  Freud,  probably  because  the  psychic 
transaction  involved  in  it  is  still  quite  obscure.)  And  in  this  identification 
with  fantasy  the  writer  imitates,  up  to  a  certain  point,  one  of  the  deepest 
and  commonest  phenomena  of  pathology. 

Since  Freud  speaks  of  the  cathexis  (i.e.,  charge  of  psychic  energy)  which 
the  child  has  toward  the  objects  of  play,  he  should  have  seen  that  the 
cathexis  of  the  writer  toward  the  objects  of  fantasy  is  more  significant  than 
the  aspect  of  fantasy  itself.  We  cited  Kafka  as  a  crucial  case;  equally  crucial 
would  be  the  case  of  Joyce,  who  rarely  moves  us  through  the  elaborateness, 
surprise,  or  ingenuity  of  his  fantasies,  but  by  the  powerful  charge  he  is  able 
to  lay  on  the  most  banal  episode. 

The  second  element  in  my  analytic  view  is,  admittedly,  more  speculative, 
and  concerns  the  psychic  type  which  now  seems  to  emerge  with  the  modern 
writer.  If  we  demand  of  the  writer  a  deeper  authenticity — identification  with 
fantasy — then  I  think  we  must  expect  that  more  and  more  only  a  certain 
psychic  type  will  be  at  once  capable  of  this,  and  also  driven  to  embrace  it  as 
his  own  painful  profession.  We  have  suggested  (speculatively)  that  the  indi- 
vidual who  is  driven  to  exhibit  such  large  slices  of  his  psyche  to  the  world 
is  compelled  by  an  excessive  need  for  the  winning  of  love.  Whether  or  not 
this  hypothesis  be  verified  by  literary  and  biographical  evidence,  it  should 
not  surprise  us,  at  any  rate,  that  the  modern  writer  (capable  of  satisfying 
our  severe  demands)  has  become,  by  and  large,  a  neurotic  type. 

The  third  element  of  my  view,  however,  attempts  to  separate  the  neurosis 
of  the  writer  from  that  of  other  men.  The  writer's  neurosis,  through  dis- 
placement and  appropriation,  attempts  to  square  itself  with  reality — but  only 
in  the  work. 

Here  I  reach  some  agreement  with  Mr.  Trilling — but  not  completely  or 
fundamentally.  When  he  speaks  of  the  writer's  ability  to  "shape"  the  neu- 
rotic material,  he  seems  to  suggest  that  this  latter  may  be  some  kind  of  clay 
external  to  the  writer,  and  that  there  is  some  portion  of  the  mind  which  re- 
mains completely  outside  the  neurosis.  This  notion  of  control  seems  also  to 
imply  that  the  writer  attains,  through  the  work,  health  and  wholeness  in 
his  life  too. 

This  strikes  me  as  quite  unguarded  from  an  analytic  point  of  view.  The 
great  counterexample  that  comes  immediately  to  mind  is  one  from  painting: 
the  case  of  Van  Gogh  (recently  discussed  by  Mr.  Meyer  Schapiro),  who,  a 
few  days  after  painting  "Crows  in  the  Wheatfield"  and  writing  to  his  brother 


Writers  and  Madness  411 

that  the  country  was  "healthful  and  strengthening,"  committed  suicide!  The 
triumph  of  the  ego,  in  short,  is  in  the  work  and  not  the  life.  It  is,  as  I  have 
said,  an  "as  if"  triumph.  Swift  did  not  heal  himself  hy  writing  Gulliver's 
Travels. 

The  source  of  the  catharsis,  by  the  way,  that  Van  Gogh  obtained  from 
that  particular  painting  has  to  be  analyzed  in  terms  of  this  essay:  the  mo- 
mentary triumph  of  the  ego  is  that  it  has  now  appropriated  elements  from 
reality  corresponding  to  its  own  torments,  and  depicted  a  scene  to  which 
these  torments  seem  an  adequate  response,  and  so  has  the  illusion  that  its 
own  reality  principle  has  been  restored  and  safeguarded. 

2  From  Swift's  epitaph:  "Go,  traveler,  and  imitate  him  if  you  can." 


Kenneth  Burke 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry 


The  reading  of  Freud  I  find  suggestive  almost 
to  the  point  of  bewilderment.  Accordingly,  what  I  should  like  most 
to  do  would  be  simply  to  take  representative  excerpts  from  his 
work,  copy  them  out,  and  write  glosses  upon  them.  Very  often  these 
glosses  would  be  straight  extensions  of  his  own  thinking.  At  other 
times  they  would  be  attempts  to  characterize  his  strategy  of  presen- 
tation with  reference  to  interpretative  method  in  general.  And, 
finally,  the  Freudian  perspective  was  developed  primarily  to  chart 
a  psychiatric  field  rather  than  an  aesthetic  one;  but  since  we  are 
here  considering  the  analogous  features  of  these  two  fields  rather 
than  their  important  differences,  they  would  be  glosses  attempting 
to  suggest  how  far  the  literary  critic  should  go  along  with  Freud 
and  what  extra-Freudian  material  he  would  have  to  add.  Such  a 
desire  to  write  an  article  on  Freud  in  the  margins  of  his  books, 
must  for  practical  reasons  here  remain  a  frustrated  desire.  An 
article  such  as  this  must  condense  by  generalization,  which  requires 
me  to  slight  the  most  stimulating  factor  of  all — the  detailed  articu- 
lacy  in  which  he  embodies  his  extraordinary  frankness. 

Freud's  frankness  is  no  less  remarkable  by  reason  of  the  fact  that 
412 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  413 

he  had  perfected  a  method  for  being  frank.  He  could  say  humble, 
even  humiliating,  things  about  himself  and  us  because  he  had 
changed  the  rules  somewhat  and  could  make  capital  of  observations 
that  others,  with  vested  interests  of  a  different  sort,  would  feel 
called  upon  to  suppress  by  dictatorial  decree.  Or  we  might  say  that 
what  for  him  could  fall  within  the  benign  category  of  observation 
could  for  them  fall  only  within  its  malign  counterpart,  spying. 

Yet  though  honesty  is,  in  Freud,  methodologically  made  easier, 
it  is  by  no  means  honesty  made  easy.  And  Freud's  own  accounts 
of  his  own  dreams  show  how  poignantly  he  felt  at  times  the  "dis- 
grace" of  his  occupation.  There  are  doubtless  many  thinkers  whose 
strange  device  might  be  ecclesia  super  cloacam.  What  more  fitting 
place  to  erect  one's  church  than  above  a  sewer!  One  might  even  say 
that  sewers  are  what  churches  are  for.  But  usually  this  is  done  by 
laying  all  the  stress  upon  the  ecclesia  and  its  beauty.  So  that,  even 
when  the  man's  work  fails  to  be  completed  for  him  as  a  social  act, 
by  the  approval  of  his  group,  he  has  the  conviction  of  its  intrinsic 
beauty  to  give  him  courage  and  solace. 

But  to  think  of  Freud,  during  the  formative  years  of  his  doc- 
trines, confronting  something  like  repugnance  among  his  colleagues, 
and  even,  as  his  dreams  show,  in  his  own  eyes,  is  to  think  of  such 
heroism  as  Unamuno  found  in  Don  Quixote;  and  if  Don  Quixote 
risked  the  social  judgment  of  ridicule,  he  still  had  the  consolatory 
thought  that  his  imaginings  were  beautiful,  stressing  the  ecclesia 
aspect,  whereas  Freud's  theories  bound  him  to  a  more  drastic  self- 
ostracizing  act — the  charting  of  the  relations  between  ecclesia  and 
cloaca  that  forced  him  to  analyze  the  cloaca  itself.  Hence,  his  work 
was  with  the  confessional  as  cathartic,  as  purgative;  this  haruspicy 
required  an  inspection  of  the  entrails;  it  was,  bluntly,  an  interpreta- 
tive sculpting  of  excrement,  with  beauty  replaced  by  a  science  of 
the  grotesque. 

Confronting  this,  Freud  does  nonetheless  advance  to  erect  a 
structure  which,  if  it  lacks  beauty,  has  astounding  ingeniousness 
and  fancy.  It  is  full  of  paradoxes,  of  leaps  across  gaps,  of  vistas — 
much  more  so  than  the  work  of  many  a  modern  poet  who  sought 
for  nothing  else  but  these  and  had  no  search  for  accuracy  to  moti- 
vate his  work.  These  qualities  alone  would  make  it  unlikely  that 


414  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

readers  literarily  inclined  could  fail  to  be  attracted,  even  while 
repelled.  Nor  can  one  miss  in  it  the  profound  charitableness  that  is 
missing  in  so  many  modern  writers  who,  likewise  concerned  with 
the  cloaca,  become  efficiently  concerned  with  nothing  else,  and 
make  of  their  work  pure  indictment,  pure  oath,  pure  striking-down, 
pure  spitting-upon,  pure  kill.  True,  this  man,  who  taught  us  so 
much  about  father-rejection  and  who  ironically  became  himself  so 
frequently  the  rejected  father  in  the  works  of  his  schismatic  dis- 
ciples, does  finally  descend  to  quarrelsomeness,  despite  himself, 
when  recounting  the  history  of  the  psychoanalytic  movement.  But, 
over  the  great  course  of  his  work,  it  is  the  matter  of  human  rescue 
that  he  is  concerned  with — not  the  matter  of  vengeance.  On  a  few 
occasions,  let  us  say,  he  is  surprised  into  vengefulness.  But  the  very 
essence  of  his  studies,  even  at  their  most  forbidding  moments  (in 
fact,  precisely  at  those  moments),  is  its  charitableness,  its  concern 
with  salvation.  To  borrow  an  excellent  meaningful  pun  from  Tri- 
gant  Burrow,  this  salvation  is  approached  not  in  terms  of  religious 
hospitality  but  rather  in  terms  of  secular  hospitalization.  Yet  it  is 
the  spirit  of  Freud;  it  is  what  Freud's  courage  is  for. 

Perhaps,  therefore,  the  most  fitting  thing  for  a  writer  to  do,  par- 
ticularly in  view  of  the  fact  that  Freud  is  now  among  the  highly 
honored  class — the  exiles  from  Nazi  Germany  (how  accurate  those 
fellows  are!  how  they  seem,  with  almost  100  per  cent  efficiency,  to 
have  weeded  out  their  greatest  citizens!) — perhaps  the  most  fitting 
thing  to  do  would  be  simply  to  attempt  an  article  of  the  "homage 
to  Freud"  sort  and  call  it  a  day. 

However,  my  job  here  cannot  be  confined  to  that.  I  have  been 
commissioned  to  consider  the  bearing  of  Freud's  theories  upon  lit- 
erary criticism.  And  these  theories  were  not  designed  primarily  for 
literary  criticism  at  all  but  were  rather  a  perspective  that,  developed 
for  the  charting  of  a  nonaesthetic  field,  was  able  (by  reason  of  its 
scope)  to  migrate  into  the  aesthetic  field.  The  margin  of  overlap 
was  this:  The  acts  of  the  neurotic  are  symbolic  acts.  Hence  in  so 
far  as  both  the  neurotic  act  and  the  poetic  act  share  this  property 
in  common,  they  may  share  a  terminological  chart  in  common.  But 
in  so  far  as  they  deviate,  terminology  likewise  must  deviate.  And 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  415 

this  deviation  is  a  fact  that  literary  criticism  must  explicitly  con- 
sider. 

As  for  the  glosses  on  the  interpretative  strategy  in  general,  they 
would  be  of  this  sort:  For  one  thing,  they  would  concern  a  distinc- 
tion between  what  I  should  call  an  essentializing  mode  of  inter- 
pretation and  a  mode  that  stresses  proportion  of  ingredients.  The 
tendency  in  Freud  is  toward  the  first  of  these.  That  is,  if  one  found 
a  complex  of,  let  us  say,  seven  ingredients  in  a  man's  motivation, 
the  Freudian  tendency  would  be  to  take  one  of  these  as  the  essence 
of  the  motivation  and  to  consider  the  other  six  as  sublimated  vari- 
ants. We  could  imagine,  for  instance,  manifestations  of  sexual  im- 
potence accompanying  a  conflict  in  one's  relations  with  his  famil- 
iars and  one's  relations  at  the  office.  The  proportional  strategy 
would  involve  the  study  of  these  three  as  a  cluster.  The  motivation 
would  be  synonymous  with  the  interrelationships  among  them.  But 
the  essentializing  strategy  would,  in  Freud's  case,  place  the  em- 
phasis upon  the  sexual  manifestation,  as  causal  ancestor  of  the 
other  two. 

This  essentializing  strategy  is  linked  with  a  normal  ideal  of  sci- 
ence: to  "explain  the  complex  in  terms  of  the  simple."  This  ideal 
almost  vows  one  to  select  one  or  another  motive  from  a  cluster  and 
interpret  the  others  in  terms  of  it.  The  naive  proponent  of  economic 
determinism,  for  instance,  would  select  the  quarrel  at  the  office  as 
the  essential  motive,  and  would  treat  the  quarrel  with  familiars  and 
the  sexual  impotence  as  mere  results  of  this.  Now,  I  don't  see  how 
you  can  possibly  explain  the  complex  in  terms  of  the  simple  with- 
out having  your  very  success  used  as  a  charge  against  you.  When 
you  get  through,  all  that  your  opponent  need  say  is :  "But  you  have 
explained  the  complex  in  terms  of  the  simple — and  the  simple  is 
precisely  what  the  complex  is  not." 

Perhaps  the  faith  philosophers,  as  against  the  reason  philoso- 
phers, did  not  have  to  encounter  a  paradox  at  this  point.  Not  that 
they  avoided  paradoxes,  for  I  think  they  must  always  cheat  when 
trying  to  explain  how  evil  can  exist  in  a  world  created  by  an 
all-powerful  and  wholly  good  Creator.  But  at  least  they  did  not 
have  to  confront  the  complexity-simplicity  difficulty,  since  their 


416  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

theological  reductions  referred  to  a  ground  in  God,  who  was 
simultaneously  the  ultimately  complex  and  the  ultimately  simple. 
Naturalistic  strategies  lack  this  convenient  "out" — hence  their  ex- 
planations are  simplifications,  and  every  simplification  is  an  over- 
simplification.1 

It  is  possible  that  the  literary  critic,  taking  communication  as  his 
basic  category,  may  avoid  this  particular  paradox  (communication 
thereby  being  a  kind  of  attenuated  God  term).  You  can  reduce 
everything  to  communication — yet  communication  is  extremely 
complex.  But,  in  any  case,  communication  is  by  no  means  the 
basic  category  of  Freud.  The  sexual  wish,  or  libido,  is  the  basic 
category;  and  the  complex  forms  of  communication  that  we  see 
in  a  highly  alembicated  philosophy  would  be  mere  sublimations  of 
this. 

A  writer  deprived  of  Freud's  clinical  experience  would  be  a  fool 
to  question  the  value  of  his  category  as  a  way  of  analyzing  the 
motives  of  the  class  of  neurotics  Freud  encountered.  There  is  a 
pronouncedly  individualistic  element  in  any  technique  of  salvation 
(my  toothache  being  alas!  my  private  property),  and  even  those 
beset  by  a  pandemic  of  sin  or  microbes  will  enter  heaven  or  get 
discharged  from  the  hospital  one  by  one;  and  the  especially  elabo- 
rate process  of  diagnosis  involved  in  Freudian  analysis  even  to 
this  day  makes  it  more  available  to  those  suffering  from  the  ills  of 
preoccupation  and  leisure  than  to  those  suffering  from  the  ills  of 
occupation  and  unemployment  (with  people  generally  tending  to 
be  only  as  mentally  sick  as  they  can  afford  to  be).  This  state  of 
affairs  makes  it  all  the  more  likely  that  the  typical  psychoanalytic 
patient  would  have  primarily  private  sexual  motivations  behind  his 
difficulties.  (Did  not  Henry  James  say  that  sex  is  something  about 
which  we  think  a  great  deal  when  we  are  not  thinking  about  any- 
thing else?  2)  Furthermore,  I  believe  that  studies  of  artistic  im- 
agery, outside  the  strict  pale  of  psychoanalytic  emphasis,  will  bear 
out  Freud's  brilliant  speculations  as  to  the  sexual  puns,  the  double- 
entendres,  lurking  behind  the  most  unlikely  facades.  If  a  man  ac- 
quires a  method  of  thinking  about  everything  else,  for  instance, 
during  the  sexual  deprivations  and  rigors  of  adolescence,  this  cure 
may  well  take  on  the  qualities  of  the  disease;  and  in  so  far  as  he 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  417 

continues  with  this  same  method  in  adult  years,  though  his  life  has 
since  become  sexually  less  exacting,  such  modes  as  incipient  homo- 
sexuality or  masturbation  may  very  well  be  informatively  inter- 
woven in  the  strands  of  his  thought  and  be  discoverable  by  inspec- 
tion of  the  underlying  imagery  or  patterns  in  this  thought. 

Indeed,  there  are  only  a  few  fundamental  bodily  idioms — and 
why  should  it  not  be  likely  that  an  attitude,  no  matter  how  complex 
its  ideational  expression,  could  only  be  completed  by  a  channeliza- 
tion within  its  corresponding  gestures?  That  is,  the  details  of  ex- 
perience behind  A's  dejection  may  be  vastly  different  from  the 
details  of  experience  behind  B's  dejection,  yet  both  A  and  B  may 
fall  into  the  same  bodily  posture  in  expressing  their  dejection. 
And  in  an  era  like  ours,  coming  at  the  end  of  a  long  individualistic 
emphasis,  where  we  frequently  find  expressed  an  attitude  of  com- 
plete independence,  of  total,  uncompromising  self-reliance,  this 
expression  would  not  reach  its  fulfillment  in  choreography  except 
in  the  act  of  "practical  narcissism"  (that  is,  the  only  wholly  in- 
dependent person  would  be  the  one  who  practiced  self-abuse  and 
really  meant  it) . 

But  it  may  be  noticed  that  we  have  here  tended  to  consider 
mind-body  relations  from  an  interactive  point  of  view  rather  than 
a  materialistic  one  (which  would  take  the  body  as  the  essence  of  the 
act  and  the  mentation  as  the  sublimation). 

Freud  himself,  interestingly  enough,  was  originally  nearer  to  this 
view  (necessary,  as  I  hope  to  show  later,  for  specifically  literary 
purposes)  than  he  later  became.  Freud  explicitly  resisted  the  study 
of  motivation  by  way  of  symbols.  He  distinguished  his  own  mode 
of  analysis  from  the  symbolic  by  laying  the  stress  upon  free  associa- 
tion. That  is,  he  would  begin  the  analysis  of  a  neurosis  without  any 
preconceived  notion  as  to  the  absolute  meaning  of  any  image  that 
the  patient  might  reveal  in  the  account  of  a  dream.  His  procedure 
involved  the  breaking-down  of  the  dream  into  a  set  of  fragments, 
with  the  analyst  then  inducing  the  patient  to  improvise  associations 
on  each  of  these  fragments  in  turn.  And  afterward,  by  charting  re- 
current themes,  he  would  arrive  at  the  crux  of  the  patient's  conflict. 

Others  (particularly  Stekel),  however,  proposed  a  great  short 


418  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

cut  here.  They  offered  an  absolute  content  for  various  items  of 
imagery.  For  instance,  in  Stekel's  dictionary  of  symbols,  which  has 
the  absoluteness  of  an  old-fashioned  dream  book,  the  right-hand 
path  equals  the  road  to  righteousness,  the  left-hand  path  equals 
the  road  to  crime,  in  anybody's  dreams  (in  Lenin's  presumably,  as 
well  as  the  Pope's).  Sisters  are  breasts  and  brothers  are  buttocks. 
"The  luggage  of  a  traveler  is  the  burden  of  sin  by  which  one  is 
oppressed,"  etc.  Freud  criticizes  these  on  the  basis  of  his  own  clini- 
cal experiences — and  whereas  he  had  reservations  against  specific 
equations,  and  rightly  treats  the  method  as  antithetical  to  his  own 
contribution,  he  decides  that  a  high  percentage  of  Stekel's  purely 
intuitive  hunches  were  corroborated.  And  after  warning  that  such 
a  gift  as  Stekel's  is  often  evidence  of  paranoia,  he  decides  that 
normal  persons  may  also  occasionally  be  capable  of  it. 

Its  lure  as  efficiency  is  understandable.  And,  indeed,  if  we  revert 
to  the  matter  of  luggage,  for  instance,  does  it  not  immediately  give 
us  insight  into  a  remark  of  Andre  Gide,  who  is  a  specialist  in  the 
portrayal  of  scrupulous  criminals,  who  has  developed  a  stylistic 
trick  for  calling  to  seduction  in  the  accents  of  evangelism,  and  who 
advises  that  one  should  learn  to  "travel  light"? 

But  the  trouble  with  short  cuts  is  that  they  deny  us  a  chance  to 
take  longer  routes.  With  them,  the  essentializing  strategy  takes  a 
momentous  step  forward.  You  have  next  but  to  essentialize  your 
short  cuts  in  turn  (a  short  cut  atop  a  short  cut),  and  you  get  the 
sexual  emphasis  of  Freud,  the  all-embracing  ego  compensation  of 
Adler,  or  Rank's  master-emphasis  upon  the  birth-trauma,  etc. 

Freud  himself  fluctuates  in  his  search  for  essence.  At  some  places 
you  find  him  proclaiming  the  all-importance  of  the  sexual,  at  other 
places  you  find  him  indignantly  denying  that  his  psychology  is  a 
pansexual  one  at  all,  and  at  still  other  places  you  get  something 
halfway  between  the  two,  via  the  concept  of  the  libido,  which 
embraces  a  spectrum  from  phallus  to  philanthropy. 

The  important  matter  for  our  purposes  is  to  suggest  that  the 
examination  of  a  poetic  work's  internal  organization  would  bring 
us  nearer  to  a  variant  of  the  typically  Freudian  free-association 
method  than  to  the  purely  symbolic  method  toward  which  he 
subsequently  gravitated.3 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  419 

The  critic  should  adopted  a  variant  of  the  free-association 
method.  One  obviously  cannot  invite  an  author,  especially  a  dead 
author,  to  oblige  him  by  telling  what  the  author  thinks  of  when  the 
critic  isolates  some  detail  or  other  for  improvisation.  But  what  he 
can  do  is  to  note  the  context  of  imagery  and  ideas  in  which  an  im- 
age takes  its  place.  He  can  also  note,  by  such  analysis,  the  kinds  of 
evaluations  surrounding  this  image  of  a  crossing;  for  instance,  is  it 
an  escape  from  or  a  return  to  an  evil  or  a  good,  etc.?  Until  finally, 
by  noting  the  ways  in  which  this  crossing  behaves,  what  subsidiary 
imagery  accompanies  it,  what  kind  of  event  it  grows  out  of,  what 
kind  of  event  grows  out  of  it,  what  altered  rhythmic  and  tonal 
effects  characterize  it,  etc.,  one  grasps  its  significance  as  motiva- 
tion. And  there  is  no  essential  motive  offered  here.  The  motive  of 
the  work  is  equated  with  the  structure  of  interrelationships  within 
the  work  itself. 

"But  there  is  more  to  a  work  of  art  than  that."  I  hear  this  objec- 
tion being  raised.  And  I  agree  with  it.  And  I  wonder  whether  we 
could  properly  consider  the  matter  in  this  wise: 

For  convenience,  using  the  word  "poem"  to  cover  any  complete, 
made  artistic  product,  let  us  divide  this  artefact  (the  invention, 
creation,  formation,  poetic  construct)  in  accordance  with  three 
modes  of  analysis:  dream,  prayer,  chart. 

The  psychoanalysis  of  Freud  and  of  the  schools  stemming  from 
Freud  has  brought  forward  an  astoundingly  fertile  range  of  obser- 
vations that  give  us  insight  into  the  poem  as  dream.  There  is  opened 
up  before  us  a  sometimes  almost  terrifying  glimpse  into  the  ways  in 
which  we  may,  while  overtly  doing  one  thing,  be  covertly  doing 
another.  Yet,  there  is  nothing  mystical  or  even  unusual  about  this. 
I  may,  for  instance,  consciously  place  my  elbow  upon  the  table. 
Yet  at  the  same  time  I  am  clearly  unconscious  of  the  exact  dis- 
tance between  my  elbow  and  my  nose.  Or,  if  that  analogy  seems 
like  cheating,  let  us  try  another:  I  may  be  unconscious  of  the  way 
in  which  a  painter  friend,  observant  of  my  postures,  would  find  the 
particular  position  of  my  arm  characteristic  of  me. 

Or  let  us  similarly  try  to  take  the  terror  out  of  infantile  re- 
gression. In  so  far  as  I  speak  the  same  language  that  I  learned  as 


420  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

a  child,  every  time  I  speak  there  is,  within  my  speech,  an  ingredi- 
ent of  regression  to  the  infantile  level.  Regression,  we  might  say, 
is  a  function  of  progression.  Where  the  progression  has  been  a 
development  by  evolution  or  continuity  of  growth  (as  were  one  to 
have  learned  to  speak  and  think  in  English  as  a  child,  and  still 
spoke  and  thought  in  English)  rather  than  by  revolution  or  dis- 
continuity of  growth  (as  were  one  to  have  learned  German  in 
childhood,  to  have  moved  elsewhere  at  an  early  age,  and  since 
become  so  at  home  in  English  that  he  could  not  even  understand 
a  mature  conversation  in  the  language  of  his  childhood),  the 
archaic  and  the  now  would  be  identical.  You  could  say,  indiffer- 
ently, either  that  the  speech  is  regression  or  that  it  is  not  regression. 
But  were  the  man,  who  had  forgot  the  language  of  his  childhood, 
to  begin  speaking  nothing  but  this  early  language  (under  a  sudden 
agitation  or  as  the  result  of  some  steady  pressure),  we  should  have 
the  kind  of  regression  that  goes  formally  by  this  name  in  psycho- 
analytic nomenclature. 

The  ideal  growth,  I  suppose — the  growth  without  elements  of 
alienation,  discontinuity,  homelessness — is  that  wherein  regression 
is  natural.  We  might  sloganize  it  as  "the  adult  a  child  matured." 
Growth  has  here  been  simply  a  successive  adding  of  cells — the 
growth  of  the  chambered  nautilus.  But  there  is  also  the  growth  of 
the  adult  who,  "when  he  became  a  man,  put  away  childish  things." 
This  is  the  growth  of  the  crab,  that  grows  by  abandoning  one  room 
and  taking  on  another.  It  produces  moments  of  crisis.  It  makes  for 
philosophies  of  emancipation  and  enlightenment,  where  one  gets 
a  jolt  and  is  "awakened  from  the  sleep  of  dogma"  (and  alas!  in 
leaving  his  profound  "Asiatic  slumber,"  he  risks  getting  in  exchange 
more  than  mere  wakefulness,  more  than  the  eternal  vigilance  that 
is  the  price  of  liberty — he  may  get  wakefulness  plus,  i.e.,  insomnia) . 

There  are,  in  short,  critical  points  (or,  in  the  Hegel-Marx  vo- 
cabulary, changes  of  quantity  leading  to  changes  of  quality)  where 
the  process  of  growth  or  change  converts  a  previous  circle  of  pro- 
tection into  a  circle  of  confinement.  The  first  such  revolution  may 
well  be,  for  the  human  individual,  a  purely  biological  one — the 
change  at  birth  when  the  fetus,  heretofore  enjoying  a  larval  exist- 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  421 

ence  in  the  womb,  being  fed  on  manna  from  the  placenta,  so  out- 
grows this  circle  of  protection  that  the  benign  protection  becomes 
a  malign  circle  of  confinement,  whereat  it  must  burst  forth  into  a 
different  kind  of  world — a  world  of  locomotion,  aggression,  com- 
petition, hunt.  The  mother,  it  is  true,  may  have  already  been  living 
in  such  a  world;  but  the  fetus  was  in  a  world  within  this  world — 
in  a  monastery — a  world  such  as  is  lived  in  by  "coupon  clippers," 
who  get  their  dividends  as  the  result  of  sharp  economic  combat  but 
who  may,  so  long  as  the  payments  are  regular,  devote  themselves 
to  thoughts  and  diseases  far  "above"  these  harsh  material  opera- 
tions. 

In  the  private  life  of  the  individual  there  may  be  many  subse- 
quent jolts  of  a  less  purely  biological  nature,  as  with  the  death  of 
some  one  person  who  had  become  pivotal  to  this  individual's  men- 
tal economy.  But  whatever  these  unique  variants  may  be,  there  is 
again  a  universal  variant  at  adolescence,  when  radical  changes  in 
the  glandular  structure  of  the  body  make  this  body  a  correspond- 
ingly altered  environment  for  the  mind,  requiring  a  corresponding 
change  in  our  perspective,  our  structure  of  interpretations,  mean- 
ings, values,  purposes,  and  inhibitions,  if  we  are  to  take  it  properly 
into  account. 

In  the  informative  period  of  childhood  our  experiences  are 
strongly  personalized.  Our  attitudes  take  shape  with  respect  to  dis- 
tinct people  who  have  roles,  even  animals  and  objects  being  vessels 
of  character.  Increasingly,  however,  we  begin  to  glimpse  a  world  of 
abstract  relationships,  of  functions  understood  solely  through  the 
medium  of  symbols  in  books.  Even  such  real  things  as  Tibet  and 
Eskimos  and  Napoleon  are  for  us,  who  have  not  been  to  Tibet,  or 
lived  with  Eskimos,  or  fought  under  Napoleon,  but  a  structure  of 
signs.  In  a  sense,  it  could  be  said  that  we  learn  these  signs  flat.  We 
must  start  from  scratch.  There  is  no  tradition  in  them;  they  are  pure 
present.  For  though  they  have  been  handed  down  by  tradition,  we 
can  read  meaning  into  them  only  in  so  far  as  we  can  project  or 
extend  them  out  of  our  own  experience.  We  may,  through  being 
burned  a  little,  understand  the  signs  for  being  burned  a  lot — it  is 
in  this  sense  that  the  coaching  of  interpretation  could  be  called 
traditional.  But  we  cannot  understand  the  signs  for  being  burned 


422  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

a  lot  until  we  have  in  our  own  flat  experience,  here  and  now,  been 
burned  a  little. 

Out  of  what  can  these  extensions  possibly  be  drawn?  Only  out 
of  the  informative  years  of  childhood.  Psychoanalysis  talks  of  pur- 
posive forgetting.  Yet  purposive  forgetting  is  the  only  way  of 
remembering.  One  learns  the  meaning  of  "table,"  "book,"  "father," 
"mother,"  "mustn't,"  by  forgetting  the  contexts  in  which  these 
words  were  used.  The  Darwinian  ancestry  (locating  the  individual 
in  his  feudal  line  of  descent  from  the  ape)  is  matched  in  Freud  by 
a  still  more  striking  causal  ancestry  that  we  might  sloganize  as 
"the  child  is  father  to  the  man."  4 

As  we  grow  up  new  meanings  must  either  be  engrafted  upon 
old  meanings  (being  to  that  extent  double-entendres)  or  they  must 
be  new  starts  (hence,  involving  problems  of  dissociation) . 

It  is  in  the  study  of  the  poem  as  dream  that  we  find  revealed  the 
ways  in  which  the  poetic  organization  takes  shape  under  these  ne- 
cessities. Revise  Freud's  terms,  if  you  will.  But  nothing  is  done  by 
simply  trying  to  refute  them  or  to  tie  them  into  knots.  One  may 
complain  at  this  procedure,  for  instance:  Freud  characterizes  the 
dream  as  the  fulfillment  of  a  wish;  an  opponent  shows  him  a  dream 
of  frustration,  and  he  answers:  "But  the  dreamer  wishes  to  be 
frustrated."  You  may  demur  at  that,  pointing  out  that  Freud  has 
developed  a  "heads  I  win,  tails  you  lose"  mode  of  discourse  here. 
But  I  maintain  that,  in  doing  so,  you  have  contributed  nothing. 
For  there  are  people  whose  values  are  askew,  for  whom  frustra- 
tion itself  is  a  kind  of  grotesque  ambition.  If  you  would,  accord- 
ingly, propose  to  chart  this  field  by  offering  better  terms,  by  all 
means  do  so.  But  better  terms  are  the  only  kind  of  refutation  here 
that  is  worth  the  trouble.  Similarly,  one  may  be  unhappy  with  the 
concept  of  ambivalence,  which  allows  pretty  much  of  an  open  sea- 
son on  explanations  (though  the  specific  filling-out  may  provide 
a  better  case  for  the  explanation  than  appears  in  this  key  term 
itself).  But,  again,  nothing  but  an  alternative  explanation  is  worth 
the  effort  of  discussion  here.  Freud's  terminology  is  a  dictionary, 
a  lexicon  for  charting  a  vastly  complex  and  hitherto  largely  un- 
charted field.  You  can't  refute  a  dictionary.  The  only  profitable 
answer  to  a  dictionary  is  another  one. 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  423 

A  profitable  answer  to  Freud's  treatment  of  the  Oedipus  com- 
plex, for  instance,  was  Malinowski's  study  of  its  variants  in  a 
matriarchal  society.5  Here  we  get  at  once  a  corroboration  and  a 
refutation  of  the  Freudian  doctrine.  It  is  corroborated  in  that  the 
same  general  patterns  of  enmity  are  revealed;  it  is  refuted  in  that 
these  patterns  are  shown  not  to  be  innate  but  to  take  shape  with 
relation  to  the  difference  in  family  structure  itself,  with  correspond- 
ing differences  in  roles. 

Freud's  overemphasis  upon  the  patriarchal  pattern  (an  assump- 
tion of  its  absoluteness  that  is  responsible  for  the  Freudian  tend- 
ency to  underrate  greatly  the  economic  factors  influencing  the 
relationships  of  persons  or  roles)  is  a  prejudicial  factor  that  must 
be  discounted,  in  Freud,  even  when  treating  the  poem  as  dream. 
Though  totemistic  religion,  for  instance,  flourished  with  matriar- 
chal patterns,  Freud  treats  even  this  in  patriarchal  terms.  And  I 
submit  that  this  emphasis  will  conceal  from  us,  to  a  large  degree, 
what  is  going  on  in  art  (still  confining  ourselves  to  the  dream  level 
— the  level  at  which  Freudian  co-ordinates  come  closest  to  the 
charting  of  the  logic  of  poetic  structure). 

In  the  literature  of  transitional  eras,  for  instance,  we  find  an 
especial  profusion  of  rebirth  rituals,  where  the  poet  is  making  the 
symbolic  passes  that  will  endow  him  with  a  new  identity.  Now, 
imagine  him  trying  to  do  a  very  thorough  job  of  this  reidentifica- 
tion.  To  be  completely  reborn,  he  would  have  to  change  his  very 
lineage  itself.  He  would  have  to  revise  not  only  his  present  but  also 
his  past.  (Ancestry  and  cause  are  forever  becoming  intermingled — 
the  thing  is  that  from  which  it  came — cause  is  Ur-sache,  etc. )  And 
could  a  personalized  past  be  properly  confined  to  a  descent  through 
the  father,  when  it  is  the  mater  that  is  semper  certa?  Totemism, 
when  not  interpreted  with  Freud's  patriarchal  bias,  may  possibly 
provide  us  with  the  necessary  cue  here.  Totemism,  as  Freud  him- 
self reminds  us,  was  a  magical  device  whereby  the  members  of  a 
group  were  identified  with  one  another  by  the  sharing  of  the  same 
substance  (a  process  often  completed  by  the  ritualistic  eating  of 
this  substance,  though  it  might,  for  this  very  reason,  be  prohibited 
on  less  festive  occasions).  And  it  is  to  the  mother  that  the  basic 
informative  experiences  of  eating  are  related. 


424  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

So,  all  told,  even  in  strongly  patriarchal  societies  (and  much 
more  so  in  a  society  like  ours,  where  theories  of  sexual  equality, 
with  a  corresponding  confusion  in  sexual  differentiation  along  oc- 
cupational lines,  have  radically  broken  the  symmetry  of  pure 
patriarchalism),  would  there  not  be  a  tendency  for  rebirth  rituals 
to  be  completed  by  symbolizations  of  matricide  and  without  deriva- 
tion from  competitive,  monopolistic  ingredients  at  all?  6 

To  consider  explicitly  a  bit  of  political  dreaming,  is  not  Hitler's 
doctrine  of  Aryanism  something  analogous  to  the  adoption  of  a 
new  totemic  line?  Has  he  not  voted  himself  a  new  identity  and,  in 
keeping  with  a  bastardized  variant  of  the  strategy  of  materialistic 
science,  rounded  this  out  by  laying  claim  to  a  distinct  blood  stream? 
What  the  Pope  is  saying,  benignly,  in  proclaiming  the  Hebrew 
prophets  as  the  spiritual  ancestors  of  Catholicism,  Hitler  is  saying 
malignly  in  proclaiming  for  himself  a  lineage  totally  distinct. 

Freud,  working  within  the  patriarchal  perspective,  has  explained 
how  such  thinking  becomes  tied  up  with  persecution.  The  paranoid, 
he  says,  assigns  his  imagined  persecutor  the  role  of  rejected  father. 
This  persecutor  is  all-powerful,  as  the  father  seems  to  the  child.  He 
is  responsible  for  every  imagined  machination  (as  the  Jews,  in  Hit- 
ler's scheme,  become  the  universal  devil-function,  the  leading 
brains  behind  every  "plot").  Advancing  from  this  brilliant  insight, 
it  is  not  hard  to  understand  why,  once  Hitler's  fantasies  are  imple- 
mented by  the  vast  resources  of  a  nation,  the  "persecutor"  becomes 
the  persecuted. 

The  point  I  am  trying  to  bring  out  is  that  this  assigning  of  a  new 
lineage  to  one's  self  (as  would  be  necessary,  in  assigning  one's  self 
a  new  identity)  could  not  be  complete  were  it  confined  to  symbolic 
patricide.  There  must  also  be  ingredients  of  symbolic  matricide  in- 
termingled here  (with  the  phenomena  of  totemism  giving  cause  to 
believe  that  the  ritualistic  slaying  of  the  maternal  relationship  may 
draw  upon  an  even  deeper  level  than  the  ritualistic  slaying  of  the 
paternal  relationship).  Lineage  itself  is  charted  after  the  metaphor 
of  the  family  tree,  which  is,  to  be  sure,  patriarchalized  in  Western 
heraldry,  though  we  get  a  different  quality  in  the  tree  of  life.  Mac- 
Leish,  in  his  period  of  aesthetic  negativism,  likens  the  sound  of 
good  verse  to  the  ring  of  the  ax  in  the  tree,  and  if  I  may  mention 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  425 

an  early  story  of  my  own,  In  Quest  of  Olympus,  a  rebirth  fantasy, 
it  begins  by  the  felling  of  a  tree,  followed  by  the  quick  change  from 
child  to  adult,  or,  within  the  conventions  of  the  fiction,  the  change 
from  tiny  "Treep"  to  gigantic  "Arjk";  and  though,  for  a  long  time, 
under  the  influence  of  the  Freudian  patriarchal  emphasis,  I  tended 
to  consider  such  trees  as  fathers,  I  later  felt  compelled  to  make 
them  ambiguously  parents.  The  symbolic  structure  of  Peter  Blume's 
painting,  "The  Eternal  City,"  almost  forces  me  to  assign  the  tree, 
in  that  instance,  to  a  purely  maternal  category,  since  the  rejected 
father  is  pictured  in  the  repellent  phalluslike  figure  of  Mussolini, 
leaving  only  the  feminine  role  for  the  luxuriant  tree  that,  by  my 
interpretation  of  the  picture,  rounds  out  the  lineage  (with  the  dis- 
honored Christ  and  the  beggarwoman  as  vessels  of  the  past  lineage, 
and  the  lewd  Mussolini  and  the  impersonal  tree  as  vessels  of  the 
new  lineage,  which  I  should  interpret  on  the  nonpolitical  level  as 
saying  that  sexuality  is  welcomed,  but  as  a  problem,  while  home 
is  relegated  to  the  world  of  the  impersonal,  abstract,  observed). 
From  another  point  of  view  we  may  consider  the  sacrifice  of 
gods,  or  of  kings,  as  stylistic  modes  for  dignifying  human  concerns 
(a  kind  of  neo-euhemerism).  In  his  stimulating  study  of  the  ritual 
drama,  The  Hero,  Lord  Raglan  overstresses,  it  seems  to  me,  the 
notion  that  these  dramas  appealed  purely  as  spectacles.  Would  it 
not  be  more  likely  that  the  fate  of  the  sacrificial  king  was  also 
the  fate  of  the  audience,  in  stylized  form,  dignified,  "writ  large"? 
Thus,  their  engrossment  in  the  drama  would  not  be  merely  that 
of  watching  a  parade,  or  the  utilitarian  belief  that  the  ritual  would 
insure  rainfall,  crops,  fertility,  a  good  year,  etc.;  but,  also,  the 
stages  of  the  hero's  journey  would  chart  the  stages  of  their  journey 
(as  an  Elizabethan  play  about  royalty  was  not  merely  an  oppor- 
tunity for  the  pit  to  get  a  glimpse  of  high  life,  a  living  newspaper 
on  the  doings  of  society,  but  a  dignification  or  memorializing  of 
their  own  concerns,  translated  into  the  idiom  then  currently  ac- 
cepted as  the  proper  language  of  magnification).7 

But  though  we  may  want  to  introduce  minor  revisions  in  the 
Freudian  perspective  here,  I  submit  that  we  should  take  Freud's 
key  terms,  "condensation"  and  "displacement,"  as  the  overall  cate- 


426  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

gories  for  the  analysis  of  the  poem  as  dream.  The  terms  are  really 
two  different  approaches  to  the  same  phenomenon.  Condensation, 
we  might  say,  deals  with  the  respects  in  which  house  in  a  dream 
may  be  more  than  house,  or  house  plus.  And  displacement  deals 
with  the  way  in  which  house  may  be  other  than  house,  or  house 
minus.  (Perhaps  we  should  say,  more  accurately,  minus  house.) 

One  can  understand  the  resistance  to  both  of  these  emphases. 
It  leaves  no  opportunity  for  a  house  to  be  purely  and  simply  a 
house — and  whatever  we  may  feel  about  it  as  regards  dreams,  it 
is  a  very  disturbing  state  of  affairs  when  transferred  to  the  realm 
of  art.  We  must  acknowledge,  however,  that  the  house  in  a  poem 
is,  when  judged  purely  and  simply  as  a  house,  a  very  flimsy  struc- 
ture for  protection  against  wind  and  rain.  So  there  seems  to  be 
some  justice  in  retaining  the  Freudian  terms  when  trying  to  de- 
cide what  is  going  on  in  poetry.  As  Freud  fills  them  out,  the  justi- 
fication becomes  stronger.  The  ways  in  which  grammatical  rules 
are  violated,  for  instance;  the  dream's  ways  of  enacting  conjunc- 
tions, of  solving  arguments  by  club  offers  of  mutually  contradictory 
assertions;  the  importance  of  both  concomitances  and  discontinu- 
ities for  interpretative  purposes  (the  phenomena  of  either  associa- 
tion or  dissociation,  as  you  prefer,  revealed  with  greatest  clarity 
in  the  lapsus  linguae);  the  conversion  of  an  expression  into  its 
corresponding  act  (as  were  one,  at  a  time  when  "over  the  fence 
is  out"  was  an  expression  in  vogue,  to  apply  this  comment  upon 
some  act  by  following  the  dream  of  this  act  by  a  dreamed  incident 
of  a  ball  going  over  a  fence);  and,  above  all,  the  notion  that  the 
optative  is  in  dreams,  as  often  in  poetry  and  essay,  presented  in 
the  indicative  (a  Freudian  observation  fertile  to  the  neopositivists' 
critique  of  language) — the  pliancy  and  ingenuity  of  Freud's  re- 
searches here  make  entrancing  reading,  and  continually  provide 
insights  that  can  be  carried  over,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  opera- 
tions of  poetry.  Perhaps  we  might  sloganize  the  point  thus:  In  so 
far  as  art  contains  a  surrealist  ingredient  (and  all  art  contains 
some  of  this  ingredient),  psychoanalytic  co-ordinates  are  required 
to  explain  the  logic  of  its  structure. 

Perhaps  we  might  take  some  of  the  pain  from  the  notions  of 
condensation  and  displacement  (with  the  tendency  of  one  event 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  All 

to  become  the  synecdochic  representative  of  some  other  event  in 
the  same  cluster)  by  imagining  a  hypothetical  case  of  authorship. 
A  novelist,  let  us  say,  is  trying  to  build  up  for  us  a  sense  of 
secrecy.  He  is  picturing  a  conspiracy,  yet  he  was  never  himself 
quite  this  kind  of  conspirator.  Might  not  this  novelist  draw  upon 
whatever  kinds  of  conspiracy  he  himself  had  experientially  known 
(as  for  instance  were  he  to  draft  for  this  purpose  memories  of  his 
participation  in  some  childhood  Bund)l  If  this  were  so,  an  ob- 
jective breakdown  of  the  imagery  with  which  he  surrounded  the 
conspiratorial  events  in  his  novel  would  reveal  this  contributory 
ingredient.  You  would  not  have  to  read  your  interpretation  into 
it.  It  would  be  objectively,  structurally,  there,  and  could  be  pointed 
to  by  scissor  work.  For  instance,  the  novelist  might  explicitly  state 
that,  when  joining  the  conspiracy,  the  hero  recalled  some  incident 
of  his  childhood.  Or  the  adult  conspirators  would,  at  strategic 
points,  be  explicitly  likened  by  the  novelist  to  children,  etc.  A 
statement  about  the  ingredients  of  the  work's  motivation  would 
thus  be  identical  with  a  statement  about  the  work's  structure — a 
statement  as  to  what  goes  with  what  in  the  work  itself.  Thus,  in 
Coleridge's  The  Eolian  Harp,  you  do  not  have  to  interpret  the 
poet's  communion  with  the  universe  as  an  affront  to  his  wife;  the 
poet  himself  explicitly  apologizes  to  her  for  it.  Also,  it  is  an  objec- 
tively citable  fact  that  imagery  of  noon  goes  with  this  apology.  If, 
then,  we  look  at  other  poems  by  Coleridge,  noting  the  part  played 
by  the  sun  at  noon  in  the  punishments  of  the  guilt-laden  Ancient 
Mariner,  along  with  the  fact  that  the  situation  of  the  narrator's 
confession  involves  the  detention  of  a  wedding  guest  from  the 
marriage  feast,  plus  the  fact  that  a  preference  for  church  as  against 
marriage  is  explicitly  stated  at  the  end  of  the  poem,  we  begin  to 
see  a  motivational  cluster  emerging.  It  is  obvious  that  such  struc- 
tural interrelationships  cannot  be  wholly  conscious,  since  they  are 
generalizations  about  acts  that  can  only  be  made  inductively  and 
statistically  after  the  acts  have  been  accumulated.  (This  applies  as 
much  to  the  acts  of  a  single  poem  as  to  the  acts  of  many  poems. 
We  may  find  a  theme  emerging  in  one  work  that  attains  fruition 
in  that  same  work — the  ambiguities  of  its  implications  where  it 
first  emerges  attaining  explication  in  the  same  integer.  Or  its  full 


428  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

character  may  not  be  developed  until  a  later  work.  In  its  ambigu- 
ous emergent  form  it  is  a  synecdochic  representative  of  the  form 
it  later  assumes  when  it  comes  to  fruition  in  either  the  same  work 
or  in  another  one.) 

However,  though  the  synecdochic  process  (whereby  something 
does  service  for  the  other  members  of  its  same  cluster  or  as  the 
foreshadowing  of  itself  in  a  later  development)  cannot  be  wholly 
conscious,  the  dream  is  not  all  dream.  We  might  say,  in  fact,  that 
the  Freudian  analysis  of  art  was  handicapped  by  the  aesthetic  of 
the  period — an  aesthetic  shared  even  by  those  who  would  have 
considered  themselves  greatly  at  odds  with  Freud  and  who  were, 
in  contrast  with  his  delving  into  the  unbeautiful,  concerned  with 
beauty  only.  This  was  the  aesthetic  that  placed  the  emphasis  wholly 
upon  the  function  of  self-expression.  The  artist  had  a  number — 
some  unique  character  or  identity — and  his  art  was  the  externaliz- 
ing of  this  inwardness.  The  general  Schopenhauerian  trend  con- 
tributed to  this.  Von  Hartmann's  Philosophy  of  the  Unconscious 
has  re-enforced  the  same  pattern.  This  version  of  voluntaristic 
processes,  as  connected  with  current  theories  of  emancipation,  re- 
sulted in  a  picture  of  the  dark,  unconscious  drive  calling  for  the 
artist  to  "out  with  it."  The  necessary  function  of  the  Freudian 
secular  confessional,  as  a  preparatory  step  to  redemption,  gave 
further  strength  to  the  same  picture.  Add  the  "complex  in  terms 
of  the  simple"  strategy  (with  its  variants — higher  in  terms  of 
lower,  normal  as  a  mere  attenuation  of  the  abnormal,  civilized  as 
the  primitive  sublimated) ;  add  the  war  of  the  generations  (which 
was  considered  as  a  kind  of  absolute  rather  than  as  a  by-product 
of  other  factors,  as  those  who  hated  the  idea  of  class  war  took 
in  its  stead  either  the  war  of  the  generations  or  the  war  of  the 
sexes) — and  you  get  a  picture  that  almost  automatically  places 
the  emphasis  upon  art  as  utterance,  as  the  naming  of  one's  num- 
ber, as  a  blurting-out,  as  catharsis  by  secretion. 

I  suggested  two  other  broad  categories  for  the  analysis  of  poetic 
organization:  prayer  and  chart. 

Prayer  would  enter  the  Freudian  picture  in  so  far  as  it  concerns 
the  optative.  But  prayer  does  not  stop  at  that.  Prayer  is  also  an 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  429 

act  of  communion.  Hence,  the  concept  of  prayer,  as  extended  to 
cover  also  secular  forms  of  petition,  moves  us  into  the  correspond- 
ing area  of  communication  in  general.  We  might  say  that,  whereas 
the  expressionistic  emphasis  reveals  the  ways  in  which  the  poet, 
with  an  attitude,  embodies  it  in  appropriate  gesture,  communica- 
tion deals  with  the  choice  of  gesture  for  the  inducement  of  corre- 
sponding attitudes.  Sensory  imagery  has  this  same  communicative 
function,  inviting  the  reader,  within  the  limits  of  the  fiction  at 
least,  to  make  himself  over  in  the  image  of  the  imagery. 

Considering  the  poem  from  this  point  of  view,  we  begin  with 
the  incantatory  elements  in  art,  the  ways  of  leading  in  or  leading 
on  the  hypothetical  audience  X  to  which  the  poem,  as  a  medium, 
is  addressed  (though  this  hypothetical  audience  X  be  nothing  more 
concrete,  as  regards  social  relations,  than  a  critical  aspect  of  the 
poet's  own  personality).  Even  Freud's  dream  had  a  censor;  but 
the  poet's  censor  is  still  more  exacting,  as  his  shapings  and  revi- 
sions are  made  for  the  purpose  of  forestalling  resistances  (be  those 
an  essay  reader's  resistances  to  arguments  and  evidence  or  the 
novel  reader's  resistance  to  developments  of  narrative  or  char- 
acter). We  move  here  into  the  sphere  of  rhetoric  (reader-writer 
relationships,  an  aspect  of  art  that  Freud  explicidy  impinges  upon 
only  to  a  degree  in  his  analysis  of  wit),  with  the  notion  of  address 
being  most  evident  in  oration  and  letter,  less  so  in  drama,  and 
least  in  the  lyric.  Roughly,  I  should  say  that  the  slightest  presence 
of  revision  is  per  se  indication  of  a  poet's  feeling  that  his  work  is 
addressed  (if  only,  as  Mead  might  say,  the  address  of  an  "I"  to 
its  "me"). 

Here  would  enter  consideration  of  formal  devices,  ways  of  point- 
ing up  and  fulfilling  expectations,  of  living  up  to  a  contract  with 
the  reader  (as  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge  might  put  it),  of  easing 
by  transition  or  sharpening  by  ellipsis;  in  short,  all  that  falls  within 
the  sphere  of  incantation,  imprecation,  exhortation,  inducement, 
weaving  and  releasing  of  spells;  matters  of  style  and  form,  of  meter 
and  rhythm,  as  contributing  to  these  results;  and  thence  to  the 
conventions  and  social  values  that  the  poet  draws  upon  in  forming 
the  appropriate  recipes  for  the  roles  of  protagonist  and  antagonist, 
into  which  the  total  agon  is  analytically  broken  down,  with  sub- 


430  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

sidiary  roles  polarized  about  one  or  the  other  of  the  two  agonists 
tapering  off  to  form  a  region  of  overlap  between  the  two  principles 
■ — the  ground  of  the  agon.  Here,  as  the  reverse  of  prayer,  would 
come  also  invective,  indictment,  oath.  And  the  gestures  might  well 
be  traced  down  eventually  to  choices  far  closer  to  bodily  panto- 
mime than  is  revealed  on  the  level  of  social  evaluation  alone  (as 
were  a  poet,  seeking  the  gestures  appropriate  for  the  conveying 
of  a  social  negativeness,  to  draw  finally  upon  imagery  of  disgust, 
and  perhaps  even,  at  felicitous  moments,  to  select  his  speech  by 
playing  up  the  very  consonants  that  come  nearest  to  the  enacting 
of  repulsion). 

As  to  the  poem  as  chart:  the  Freudian  emphasis  upon  the  pun 
brings  it  about  that  something  can  only  be  in  so  far  as  it  is  some- 
thing else.  But,  aside  from  these  ambiguities,  there  is  also  a  state- 
ment's value  as  being  exactly  what  it  is.  Perhaps  we  could  best 
indicate  what  we  mean  by  speaking  of  the  poem  as  chart  if  we 
called  it  the  poet's  contribution  to  an  informal  dictionary.  As  with 
proverbs,  he  finds  some  experience  or  relationship  typical,  or  re- 
current, or  significant  enough  for  him  to  need  a  word  for  it.  Except 
that  his  way  of  defining  the  word  is  not  to  use  purely  conceptual 
terms,  as  in  a  formal  dictionary,  but  to  show  how  his  vision  be- 
haves, with  appropriate  attitudes.  In  this,  again,  it  is  like  the 
proverb  that  does  not  merely  name  but  names  vindictively,  or 
plaintively,  or  promisingly,  or  consolingly,  etc.  His  namings  need 
not  be  new  ones.  Often  they  are  but  memorializings  of  an  experi- 
ence long  recognized. 

But,  essentially,  they  are  enactments,  with  every  form  of  expres- 
sion being  capable  of  treatment  as  the  efficient  extension  of  one 
aspect  or  another  of  ritual  drama  (so  that  even  the  scientific  essay 
would  have  its  measure  of  choreography,  its  pedestrian  pace  itself 
being  analyzed  as  gesture  or  incantation,  its  polysyllables  being  as 
style  the  mimetics  of  a  distinct  monasticism,  etc.).  And  this  ob- 
servation, whereby  we  have  willy-nilly  slipped  back  into  the  former 
subject,  the  symbolic  act  as  prayer,  leads  us  to  observe  that  the 
three  aspects  of  the  poem,  here  proposed,  are  not  elements  that 
can  be  isolated  in  the  poem  itself,  with  one  line  revealing  the 
"dream,"  another  the  "prayer,"  and  a  third  the  "chart."  They 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  431 

merely  suggest  three  convenient  modes  in  which  to  approach  the 
task  of  analysis.8 

The  primary  category,  for  the  explicit  purposes  of  literary  criti- 
cism, would  thus  seem  to  me  to  be  that  of  communication  rather 
than  that  of  wish,  with  its  disguises,  frustrations,  and  fulfillments. 
Wishes  themselves,  in  fact,  become  from  this  point  of  view  analyz- 
able  as  purposes  that  get  their  shape  from  the  poet's  perspective  in 
general  (while  this  perspective  is  in  turn  shaped  by  the  collective 
medium  of  communication) .  The  choice  of  communication  also 
has  the  advantage,  from  the  sociological  point  of  view,  that  it  re- 
sists the  Freudian  tendency  to  overplay  the  psychological  factor 
(as  the  total  medium  of  communication  is  not  merely  that  of 
words,  colors,  forms,  etc.,  or  of  the  values  and  conventions  with 
which  these  are  endowed,  but  also  the  productive  materials,  co- 
operative resources,  property  rights,  authorities,  and  their  various 
bottlenecks,  which  figure  in  the  total  act  of  human  conversation). 

Hence,  to  sum  up:  I  should  say  that,  for  the  explicit  purposes 
of  literary  criticism,  we  should  require  more  emphasis  than  the 
Freudian  structure  gives,  ( 1 )  to  the  proportional  strategy  as  against 
the  essentializing  one,  (2)  to  matriarchal  symbolizations  as  against 
the  Freudian  patriarchal  bias,  (3)  to  poem  as  prayer  and  chart, 
as  against  simply  the  poem  as  dream. 

But  I  fully  recognize  that,  once  the  ingenious  and  complex 
structure  has  been  erected,  nearly  anyone  can  turn  up  with  pro- 
posals that  it  be  given  a  little  more  of  this,  a  little  less  of  that,  a 
pinch  of  so-and-so,  etc.  And  I  recognize  that,  above  all,  we  owe 
an  enormous  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  man  who,  by  his  insight,  his 
energy,  and  his  remarkably  keen  powers  of  articulation,  made  such 
tinkering  possible.  It  is  almost  fabulous  to  think  that,  after  so 
many  centuries  of  the  family,  it  is  only  now  that  this  central  factor 
in  our  social  organization  has  attained  its  counterpart  in  an  organ- 
ized critique  of  the  family  and  of  the  ways  in  which  the  informa- 
tive experience  with  familiar  roles  may  be  carried  over,  or  "meta- 
phored,"  into  the  experience  with  extrafamiliar  roles,  giving  these 
latter,  in  so  far  as  they  are,  or  are  felt  to  be,  analogous  with  the 
former,  a  structure  of  interpretations  and  attitudes  borrowed  from 
the  former.  And  in  so  far  as  poets,  like  everyone  else,  are  regularly 


432  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

involved  in  such  informative  familiar  relationships,  long  before  any 
but  a  few  rudimentary  bodily  gestures  are  available  for  communi- 
cative use  (with  their  first  use  unquestionably  being  the  purely 
self-expressive  one),  the  child  is  indeed  the  adult  poet's  father,  as 
he  is  the  father  of  us  all  (if  not  so  in  essence,  then  at  least  as 
regards  an  important  predisposing  factor  "to  look  out  for"). 
Thence  we  get  to  "like  father  like  son."  And  thence  we  get  to 
Freud's  brilliant  documentation  of  this  ancestry,  as  it  affects  the 
maintenance  of  a  continuity  in  the  growing  personality. 

Only  if  we  eliminate  biography  entirely  as  a  relevant  fact  about 
poetic  organization  can  we  eliminate  the  importance  of  the  psycho- 
analyst's search  for  universal  patterns  of  biography  (as  revealed 
in  the  search  for  basic  myths  which  recur  in  new  guises  as  a  theme 
with  variations) ;  and  we  can  eliminate  biography  as  a  relevant  fact 
about  poetic  organization  only  if  we  consider  the  work  of  art  as 
if  it  were  written  neither  by  people  nor  for  people,  involving  neither 
inducements  nor  resistances.9  Such  can  be  done,  but  the  cost  is 
tremendous  in  so  far  as  the  critic  considers  it  his  task  to  disclose 
the  poem's  eventfulness. 

However,  this  is  decidedly  not  the  same  thing  as  saying  that  "we 
cannot  appreciate  the  poem  without  knowing  about  its  relation  to 
the  poet's  life  as  an  individual."  Rather,  it  is  equivalent  to  saying: 
"We  cannot  understand  a  poem's  structure  without  understanding 
the  function  of  that  structure.  And  to  understand  its  function  we 
must  understand  its  purpose."  To  be  sure,  there  are  respects  in 
which  the  poem,  as  purpose,  is  doing  things  for  the  poet  that  it  is 
doing  for  no  one  else.  For  instance,  I  think  it  can  be  shown  by 
analysis  of  the  imagery  in  Coleridge's  "Mystery  Poems"  that  one 
of  the  battles  being  fought  there  is  an  attempt  to  get  self-redemption 
by  the  poet's  striving  for  the  vicarious  or  ritualistic  redemption  of 
his  drug.  It  is  obvious  that  this  aspect  of  the  equational  structure 
is  private  and  would  best  merit  discussion  when  one  is  discussing 
the  strategy  of  one  man  in  its  particularities.  Readers  in  general 
will  respond  only  to  the  sense  of  guilt,  which  was  sharpened  for 
Coleridge  by  his  particular  burden  of  addiction,  but  which  may 
be  sharpened  for  each  reader  by  totally  different  particularities  of 
experience.  But  if  you  do  not  discuss  the  poem's  structure  as  a 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  433 

function  of  symbolic  redemption  at  all  (as  a  kind  of  private  enter- 
prise Mass,  with  important  ingredients  of  a  black  Mass),  the 
observations  you  make  about  its  structure  are  much  more  likely 
to  be  gratuitous  and  arbitrary  (quite  as  only  the  most  felicitous  of 
observers  could  relevantly  describe  the  distribution  of  men  and 
postures  in  a  football  game  if  he  had  no  knowledge  of  the  game's 
purpose  and  did  not  discuss  its  formations  as  oppositional  tactics 
for  the  carrying-out  of  this  purpose,  but  treated  the  spectacle 
simply  as  the  manifestation  of  a  desire  to  instruct  and  amuse). 

Thus,  in  the  case  of  The  Ancient  Mariner,  knowledge  of  Cole- 
ridge's personal  problems  may  enlighten  us  as  to  the  particular 
burdens  that  the  Pilot's  boy  ("who  now  doth  crazy  go")  took 
upon  himself  as  scapegoat  for  the  poet  alone.  But  his  appearance 
in  the  poem  cannot  be  understood  at  all,  except  in  superficial  terms 
of  the  interesting  or  the  picturesque,  if  we  do  not  grasp  his  function 
as  a  scapegoat  of  some  sort — a  victimized  vessel  for  drawing  off 
the  most  malign  aspects  of  the  curse  that  afflicts  the  "greybeard 
loon"  whose  cure  had  been  effected  under  the  dubious  aegis  of 
moonlight.  And  I  believe  that  such  a  functional  approach  is  the 
only  one  that  can  lead  into  a  profitable  analysis  of  a  poem's  struc- 
ture even  on  the  purely  technical  level.  I  remember  how,  for  in- 
stance, I  had  pondered  for  years  the  reference  to  the  "silly  buckets" 
filled  with  curative  rain.  I  noted  the  epithet  as  surprising,  pictur- 
esque, and  interesting.  I  knew  that  it  was  doing  something,  but  I 
wasn't  quite  sure  what.  But  as  soon  as  I  looked  upon  the  Pilot's 
boy  as  a  scapegoat,  I  saw  that  the  word  silly  was  a  technical  fore- 
shadowing of  the  fate  that  befell  this  figure  in  the  poem.  The 
structure  itself  became  more  apparent:  the  "loon"-atic  Mariner 
begins  his  cure  from  drought  under  the  aegis  of  a  moon  that  causes 
a  silly  rain,  thence  by  synecdoche  to  silly  buckets,  and  the  most 
malignant  features  of  this  problematic  cure  are  transferred  to  the 
Pilot's  boy  who  now  doth  crazy  go.  Now,  if  you  want  to  con- 
fine your  observations  to  the  one  poem,  you  have  a  structural- 
functional-technical  analysis  of  some  important  relationships  within 
the  poem  itself.  If  you  wish  to  trail  the  matter  farther  afield,  into 
the  equational  structure  of  other  work  by  Coleridge,  you  can  back 
your  interpretation  of  the  moon  by  such  reference  as  that  to 


434  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

"moon-blasted  madness,"  which  gives  you  increased  authority  to 
discern  lunatic  ingredients  in  the  lunar.  His  letters,  where  he  talks 
of  his  addiction  in  imagery  like  that  of  the  "Mystery  Poems"  and 
contemplates  entering  an  insane  asylum  for  a  cure,  entitle  you  to 
begin  looking  for  traces  of  the  drug  as  an  ingredient  in  the  re- 
demptive problem.  His  letters  also  explicitly  place  the  drug  in  the 
same  cluster  with  the  serpent;  hence,  we  begin  to  discern  what  is 
going  on  when  the  Mariner  transubstantiates  the  water  snakes,  in 
removing  them  from  the  category  of  the  loathsome  and  accursed  to 
the  category  of  the  blessed  and  beautiful.  So  much  should  be 
enough  for  the  moment.  Since  the  poem  is  constructed  about  an 
opposition  between  punishments  under  the  aegis  of  the  sun  and 
cure  under  the  aegis  of  the  moon,  one  could  proceed  in  other  works 
to  disclose  the  two  sets  of  equations  clustered  about  these  two 
principles.  Indeed,  even  in  The  Ancient  Mariner  itself  we  get  a 
momentous  cue,  as  the  sun  is  explicitly  said  to  be  "like  God's  own 
head."  But,  for  the  moment,  all  I  would  maintain  is  that,  if  we 
had  but  this  one  poem  by  Coleridge,  and  knew  not  one  other 
thing  about  him,  we  could  not  get  an  insight  into  its  structure  until 
we  began  with  an  awareness  of  its  function  as  a  symbolic  redemp- 
tive process. 

I  can  imagine  a  time  when  the  psychological  picture  will  be  so 
well  known  and  taken  into  account — when  we  shall  have  gone 
so  far  beyond  Freud's  initial  concerns — that  a  reference  to  the 
polymorphous  perverse  of  the  infantile,  for  instance,  will  seem  far 
too  general — a  mere  first  approximation.  Everyone  provides  an 
instance  of  the  polymorphous  perverse,  in  attenuated  form,  at  a 
moment  of  hesitancy;  caught  in  the  trackless  maze  of  an  unre- 
solved, and  even  undefined,  conflict,  he  regresses  along  this  chan- 
nel and  that,  in  a  formless  experimentation  that  "tries  anything 
and  everything,  somewhat."  And  in  so  far  as  his  puzzle  is  resolved 
into  pace,  and  steady  rhythms  of  a  progressive  way  out  are  estab- 
lished, there  is  always  the  likelihood  that  this  solution  will  main- 
tain continuity  with  the  past  of  the  poet's  personality  by  a  covert 
drawing  upon  analogies  with  this  past.  Hence  the  poet  or  specu- 
lator, no  matter  how  new  the  characters  with  which  he  is  now 
concerned,  will  give  them  somewhat  the  roles  of  past  characters; 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  435 

whereat  I  see  nothing  unusual  about  the  thought  that  a  mature 
and  highly  complex  philosophy  might  be  so  organized  as  to  be 
surrogate  for,  let  us  say,  a  kind  of  adult  breast-feeding — or,  in 
those  more  concerned  with  alienation,  a  kind  of  adult  weaning. 
Such  categories  do  not  by  any  means  encompass  the  totality  of  a 
communicative  structure;  but  they  are  part  of  it,  and  the  imagery 
and  transitions  of  the  poem  itself  cannot  disclose  their  full  logic 
until  such  factors  are  taken  into  account. 

However,  I  have  spoken  of  pace.  And  perhaps  I  might  conclude 
with  some  words  on  the  bearing  that  the  Freudian  technique  has 
upon  the  matter  of  pace.  The  Freudian  procedure  is  primarily  de- 
signed to  break  down  a  rhythm  grown  obsessive,  to  confront  the 
systematic  pieties  of  the  patient's  misery  with  systematic  impieties 
of  the  clinic.10  But  the  emphasis  here  is  more  upon  the  breaking 
of  a  malign  rhythm  than  upon  the  upbuilding  of  a  benign  one. 
There  is  no  place  in  this  technique  for  examining  the  available 
resources  whereby  the  adoption  of  total  dramatic  enactment  may 
lead  to  correspondingly  proper  attitude.  There  is  no  talk  of  games, 
of  dance,  of  manual  and  physical  actions,  of  historical  role,  as  a 
"way  in"  to  this  new  upbuilding.  The  sedentary  patient  is  given 
a  sedentary  cure.  The  theory  of  rhythms — work  rhythms,  dance 
rhythms,  march  rhythms — is  no  explicit  part  of  this  scheme,  which 
is  primarily  designed  to  break  old  rhythms  rather  than  to  establish 
new  ones. 

The  establishing  of  a  new  pace,  beyond  the  smashing  of  the  old 
puzzle,  would  involve  in  the  end  a  rounded  philosophy  of  the 
drama.  Freud,  since  his  subject  is  conflict,  hovers  continually  about 
the  edges  of  such  a  philosophy;  yet  it  is  not  dialectical  enough. 
For  this  reason  Marxists  properly  resent  his  theories,  even  though 
one  could,  by  culling  incidental  sentences  from  his  works,  fit  him 
comfortably  into  the  Marxist  perspective.  But  the  Marxists  are 
wrong,  I  think,  in  resenting  him  as  an  irrationalist,  for  there  is 
nothing  more  rational  than  the  systematic  recognition  of  irrational 
and  nonrational  factors.  And  I  should  say  that  both  Freudians  and 
Marxists  are  wrong  in  so  far  as  they  cannot  put  their  theories  to- 
gether, by  an  overall  theory  of  drama  itself  (as  they  should  be 


436  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

able  to  do,  since  Freud  gives  us  the  material  of  the  closet  drama, 
and  Marx  the  material  of  the  problem  play,  the  one  worked  out 
in  terms  of  personal  conflicts,  the  other  in  terms  of  public 
conflicts.) 

The  approach  would  require  explicitly  the  analysis  of  role:  sal- 
vation via  change  or  purification  of  identity  (purification  in  either 
the  moral  or  chemical  sense);  different  typical  relationships  be- 
tween individual  and  group  (as  charted  attitudinally  in  proverbs, 
and  in  complex  works  treated  as  sophisticated  variants);  modes 
of  acceptance,  rejection,  self-acceptance,  rejection  of  rejection  u 
("the  enemies  of  my  enemies  are  my  friends");  transitional  dis- 
embodiment as  intermediate  step  between  old  self  and  new  self 
(the  spirituality  of  Shelley  and  of  the  Freudian  cure  itself) ;  monas- 
ticism  in  the  development  of  methods  that  fix  a  transitional  or 
other-worldly  stage,  thereby  making  the  evanescent  itself  into  a 
kind  of  permanency — with  all  these  modes  of  enactment  finally 
employing,  as  part  of  the  gesture  idiom,  the  responses  of  the  body 
itself  as  actor.  (If  one  sought  to  employ  Freud,  as  is,  for  the 
analysis  of  the  poem,  one  would  find  almost  nothing  on  poetic 
posture  or  pantomime,  tonality,  the  significance  of  different  styles 
and  rhythmic  patterns,  nothing  of  this  behaviorism.)  Such,  it  seems 
to  me,  would  be  necessary,  and  much  more  in  that  direction,  be- 
fore we  could  so  extend  Freud's  perspective  that  it  revealed  the 
major  events  going  on  in  art. 

But  such  revisions  would  by  no  means  be  anti-Freudian.  They 
would  be  the  kind  of  extensions  required  by  reason  of  the  fact 
that  the  symbolic  act  of  art,  whatever  its  analogies  with  the  sym- 
bolic act  of  neurosis,  also  has  important  divergencies  from  the 
symbolic  act  of  neurosis.  They  would  be  extensions  designed  to 
take  into  account  the  full  play  of  communicative  and  realistic  in- 
gredients that  comprise  so  large  an  aspect  of  poetic  structure. 


1  The  essentializing  strategy  has  its  function  when  dealing  with  classes  of 
items;  the  proportional  one  is  for  dealing  with  an  item  in  its  uniqueness.  By 
isolating  the  matter  of  voluntarism,  we  put  Freud  in  a  line  or  class  with 
Augustine.  By  isolating  the  matter  of  his  concern  with  a  distinction  between 
unconscious  and  conscious,  we  may  put  him  in  a  line  with  Leibniz's  distinc- 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  437 

tion  between  perception  and  apperception.  Or  we  could  link  him  with 
the  Spinozistic  conatus  and  the  Schopenhauerian  will.  Or,  as  a  rationalist, 
he  falls  into  the  bin  with  Aquinas  (who  is  himself  most  conveniently  iso- 
lated as  a  rationalist  if  you  employ  the  essentializing  as  against  the  propor- 
tional strategy,  stressing  what  he  added  rather  than  what  he  retained.)  Many 
arguments  seem  to  hinge  about  the  fact  that  there  is  an  unverbalized  dis- 
agreement as  to  the  choice  between  these  strategies.  The  same  man,  for  in- 
stance, who  might  employ  the  essentializing  strategy  in  proclaiming  Aquinas 
as  a  rationalist,  taking  as  the  significant  factor  in  Aquinas'  philosophy  his 
additions  to  rationalism  rather  than  considering  this  as  an  ingredient  in  a 
faith  philosophy,  might  object  to  the  bracketing  of  Aquinas  and  Freud  (here 
shifting  to  the  proportional  strategy,  as  he  pointed  out  the  totally  different 
materials  with  which  Aquinas  surrounded  his  rational  principle). 

2  We  may  distinguish  between  a  public  and  universal  motive.  In  so  far  as 
one  acts  in  a  certain  way  because  of  his  connection  with  a  business  or  party, 
he  would  act  from  a  public  motive.  His  need  of  response  to  a  new  glandular 
stimulation  at  adolescence,  on  the  other  hand,  would  arise  regardless  of  so- 
cial values,  and  in  that  sense  would  be  at  once  private  and  universal.  The 
particular  forms  in  which  he  expressed  this  need  would,  of  course,  be  chan- 
nelized in  accordance  with  public  or  social  factors. 

3  Perhaps,  to  avoid  confusion,  I  should  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  sym- 
bolic in  this  context  is  being  used  differently  by  me  from  its  use  in  the  ex- 
pression "symbolic  action."  If  a  man  crosses  a  street,  it  is  a  practical  act.  If 
he  writes  a  book  about  crossings — crossing  streets,  bridges,  oceans,  etc. — 
that  is  a  symbolic  act.  Symbolic,  as  used  in  the  restricted  sense  (in  contrast 
with  free  association)  would  refer  to  the  imputation  of  an  absolute  meaning 
to  a  crossing,  a  meaning  that  I  might  impute  even  before  reading  the  book 
in  question.  Against  this,  I  should  maintain:  One  can  never  know  what  a 
crossing  means,  in  a  specific  book,  until  he  has  studied  its  tie-up  with  other 
imagery  in  that  particular  book. 

4  Maybe  the  kind  of  forgetting  that  is  revealed  by  psychoanalysis  could, 
within  this  frame,  be  better  characterized  as  an  incomplete  forgetting.  That 
is,  whereas  table,  for  instance,  acquires  an  absolute  and  emotionally  neutral 
meaning,  as  a  name  merely  for  a  class  of  objects,  by  a  merging  of  all  the 
contexts  involving  the  presence  of  a  table,  a  table  becomes  symbolic,  or  a 
double  entendre,  or  more  than  table,  when  some  particular  informative  con- 
text is  more  important  than  the  others.  That  is,  when  table,  as  used  by  the 
poet,  has  overtones  of,  let  us  say,  one  table  at  which  his  mother  worked 
when  he  was  a  child.  In  this  way  the  table,  its  food,  and  the  cloth  may  be- 
come surrogates  for  the  mother,  her  breasts,  and  her  apron.  And  incest  awe 
may  become  merged  with  "mustn't  touch"  injunctions,  stemming  from  at- 
tempts to  keep  the  child  from  meddling  with  the  objects  on  the  table.  In  a 
dream  play  by  Edmund  Wilson,  The  Crime  in  the  Whistler  Room,  there  are 
two  worlds  of  plot,  with  the  characters  belonging  in  the  one  world  looking 
upon  those  in  the  other  as  dead,  and  the  hero  of  this  living  world  taking  a 
dream  shape  as  werewolf.  The  worlds  switch  back  and  forth,  depending 
upon  the  presence  or  removal  of  a  gate-leg  table.  In  this  instance  I  think  we 
should  not  be  far  wrong  in  attributing  some  such  content  as  the  above  to 


438  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  table  when  considering  it  as  a  fulcrum  upon  which  the  structure  of  the 
plot  is  swung. 

5  It  is  wrong,  I  think,  to  consider  Freud's  general  picture  as  that  of  an  in- 
dividual psychology.  Adler's  start  from  the  concept  of  ego  compensation  fits 
this  description  par  excellence.  But  Freud's  is  a  family  psychology.  He  has 
offered  a  critique  of  the  family,  though  it  is  the  family  of  a  neopatriarch.  It 
is  interesting  to  watch  Freud,  in  his  Group  Psychology  and  the  Analysis  of 
the  Ego,  frankly  shifting  between  the  primacy  of  group  psychology  and  the 
primacy  of  individual  psychology,  changing  his  mind  as  he  debates  with 
himself  in  public  and  leaves  in  his  pages  the  record  of  his  fluctuations, 
frankly  stated  as  such.  Finally,  he  compromises  by  leaving  both,  drawing  in- 
dividual psychology  from  the  role  of  the  monopolistic  father,  and  group  psy- 
chology from  the  roles  of  the  sons,  deprived  of  sexual  gratification  by  the 
monopolistic  father,  and  banded  together  for  their  mutual  benefit.  But  note 
that  the  whole  picture  is  that  of  a  family  albeit  of  a  family  in  which  the 
woman  is  a  mere  passive  object  of  male  wealth. 

6  Or  you  might  put  it  this  way:  Rebirth  would  require  a  killing  of  the  old 
self.  Such  symbolic  suicide,  to  be  complete,  would  require  a  snapping  of  the 
total  ancestral  line  (as  being  an  integral  aspect  of  one's  identity).  Hence,  a 
tendency  for  the  emancipatory  crime  to  become  sexually  ambivalent. 
Freud's  patriarchal  emphasis  leads  to  an  overstress  upon  father-rejection  as 
a  basic  cause  rather  than  as  a  by-product  of  conversion  (the  Kierkegaard 
earthquake  that  was  accompanied  by  a  changed  attitude  toward  his  father). 
Suicide,  to  be  thorough,  would  have  to  go  farther,  and  the  phenomena  of 
identity  revealed  in  totemism  might  require  the  introduction  of  matricidal 
ingredients  also.  Freud  himself,  toward  the  end  of  Totem  and  Taboo,  gives 
us  an  opening  wedge  by  stating  frankly,  "In  this  evolution  I  am  at  a  loss  to 
indicate  the  place  of  the  great  maternal  deities  who  perhaps  everywhere 
preceded  the  paternal  deities.  .  .  ."  This  same  patriarchal  emphasis  also  re- 
enforces  the  Freudian  tendency  to  treat  social  love  as  a  mere  sublimation  of 
balked  male  sexual  appetite,  whereas  a  more  matriarchal  concern,  with  the 
Madonna  and  Child  relationship,  would  suggest  a  place  for  affection  as  a  pri- 
mary biological  motivation.  Not  even  a  naturalistic  account  of  motivation 
would  necessarily  require  re-enforcement  from  the  debunking  strategy  (in 
accordance  with  which  the  real  motives  would  be  incipient  perversions,  and 
social  motives  as  we  know  them  would  be  but  their  appearances,  or  cen- 
sored disguise). 

7  Might  not  the  sacrificial  figure  (as  parent,  king,  or  god)  also  at  times 
derive  from  no  resistance  or  vindictiveness  whatsoever,  but  be  the  recipient 
of  the  burden  simply  through  "having  stronger  shoulders,  better  able  to  bear 
it?"  And  might  the  choice  of  guilty  scapegoats  (such  as  a  bad  father)  be 
but  a  secondary  development  for  accommodating  this  socialization  of  a  loss 
to  the  patterns  of  legality? 

8  Dream  has  its  opposite,  nightmare;  prayer  has  its  opposite,  oath.  Charts 
merely  vary — in  scope  and  relevance.  In  Kubla  Khan,  automatically  com- 
posed during  an  opium  dream,  the  dream  ingredient  is  uppermost.  In  The 
Ancient  Mariner,  the  prayer  ingredient  is  uppermost.  In  Dejection  and  The 
Pains  of  Sleep,  the  chart  ingredient  is  uppermost:  here  Coleridge  is  explicitly 
discussing  his  situation. 


Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry  439 

9  Those  who  stress  form  of  this  sort,  as  against  content,  usually  feel  that 
they  are  concerned  with  judgments  of  excellence  as  against  judgments  of  the 
merely  representative.  Yet,  just  as  a  content  category  such  as  the  Oedipus 
complex  is  neutral,  i.e.,  includes  both  good  and  bad  examples  of  its  kind, 
so  does  a  form  category,  such  as  sonnet  or  iambic  pentameter,  include  both 
good  and  bad  examples  of  its  kind.  In  fact,  though  categories  or  classifica- 
tions may  be  employed  for  evaluative  purposes,  they  should  be  of  them- 
selves nonevaluative.  Apples  is  a  neutral,  nonevaluative  class,  including  firm 
apples  and  rotten  ones.  Categories  that  are  in  themselves  evaluative  are 
merely  circular  arguments — disguised  ways  of  saying  "this  is  good  because 
it  is  good."  The  orthodox  strategy  of  disguise  is  to  break  the  statement  into 
two  parts,  such  as:  "This  is  good  because  it  has  form;  and  form  is  good." 
The  lure  behind  the  feeling  that  the  miracle  of  evaluation  can  be  replaced 
by  a  codified  scientific  routine  of  evaluation  seems  to  get  its  backing  from 
the  hope  that  a  concept  of  quality  can  be  matched  by  a  number.  The  terms 
missing  may  be  revealed  by  a  diagram,  thus: 

Quantity    Number 

Weight Pound 

Length Foot 

Duration   Hour 

Quality    (         ) 

Excellence (         ) 

Inferiority   (         ) 

Often  the  strategy  of  concealment  is  accomplished  by  an  ambiguity,  as  the 
critic  sometimes  uses  the  term  "poetry"  to  designate  good  poetry,  and  some- 
times uses  it  to  designate  "poetry,  any  poetry,  good,  bad,  or  indifferent." 
I  do,  however,  strongly  sympathize  with  the  formalists,  as  against  the  soci- 
ologists, when  the  sociologist  treats  poetry  simply  as  a  kind  of  haphazard 
sociological  survey — a  report  about  world  conditions  that  often  shows  com- 
mendable intuitive  insight  but  is  handicapped  by  a  poor  methodology  of 
research  and  controls. 

10  There  are  styles  of  cure,  shifting  from  age  to  age,  because  each  novelty 
becomes  a  commonplace,  so  that  the  patient  integrates  his  conflict  with  the 
ingredients  of  the  old  cure  itself,  thus  making  them  part  of  his  obsession. 
Hence,  the  need  for  a  new  method  of  jolting.  Thus,  I  should  imagine  that  a 
patient  who  had  got  into  difficulties  after  mastering  the  Freudian  technique 
would  present  the  most  obstinate  problems  for  a  Freudian  cure.  He  would 
require  some  step  beyond  Freud.  The  same  observation  would  apply  to 
shifting  styles  in  a  poetry  and  philosophy,  when  considered  as  cures,  as  the 
filling  of  a  need. 

11 1  am  indebted  to  Norbert  Guterman  for  the  term  "self-acceptance"  and 
to  William  S.  Knickerbocker  for  the  term  "rejection  of  rejection." 


Robert  Gorham  Davis 


Art  and  Anxiety 


Although  in  some  respects  incredible,  Little  Red 
Ridinghood  is  obviously  a  good  story,  and  its  simplicity  recom- 
mends it  as  an  introduction  to  the  necessarily  rather  speculative 
discussion  of  art  and  anxiety  which  follows.  This  tale  of  the  wolf 
and  the  grandmother  is  primitive,  folkish  and  fantastic,  and  the 
proper  terms  for  its  explication  may  seem  irrelevant  to  higher 
forms  of  art,  particularly  those  that  are  intellectual  and  realistic. 
But  I  shall  go  on  to  suggest  that  to  be  effective,  those  intellectual 
and  realistic  elements  in  imaginative  literature  must  have  a  double 
reference,  both  to  the  world  of  outer  reality  and  to  the  kind  of 
inner  situation  with  which  Little  Red  Ridinghood  deals,  and  that 
this  second  kind  of  reference  is  the  essential  one  for  art. 

If  it  is  difficult  to  suppose  that  a  wolf  in  a  nightcap,  especially 
after  it  began  to  speak,  could  be  taken  for  one's  grandmother,  it  is 
easy  to  supose  that  one's  grandmother — or  even  one  dearer  than  a 
grandmother — could  be  taken  for  a  wolf.  According  to  the  modes 
of  their  time  and  place  and  social  station,  parents  make  children 
human  and  social.  They  impose  cultural  institutions  not  only  on 
young  minds,  but  on  young  emotions,  and  muscles  and  nerves.  This 
440 


A  rt  and  A  nxiety  44 1 

is  an  intimate  and  unremitting  process,  carried  on  over  a  long  period 
of  time.  Even  the  best  of  parents  often  do  it  with  force  and  in  anger. 
They  also  love.  But  to  a  very  small  child  the  moments  of  anger  are 
quite  separate  from  those  of  love,  and  when  his  strongest  impulses 
are  blocked  for  incomprehensible  reasons  by  what  can  seem  to  him 
only  an  unconditionally  evil  personal  force,  he  responds  in  his  rage 
with  equally  unconditional  statements  of  hate  and  the  wish  to  kill, 
that  is,  to  remove.  He  "means"  these  statements,  just  as  the  parent 
"means"  his  anger. 

Such  wishes — conscious,  and  even  put  into  words — are  not  neces- 
sarily blind  instincts  or  part  of  a  fund  of  original  sin  invested  in  all 
of  us,  but  conscious  and  understandable  responses  to  a  social  situa- 
tion. Nevertheless,  they  are  not  easy  for  the  child  to  deal  with  as 
he  grows  older.  In  his  love  and  dependence  and  desire  to  be  good, 
he  accepts  the  parent's  authority  pretty  much  in  the  parent's  terms, 
and  within  that  scheme  can  find  no  place  for  those  negative,  de- 
structive feelings  which  were  not  only  organized  and  a  part  of  his 
developing  personality,  but  very  difficult  to  separate  from  his  inner 
sense  of  the  parents.  As  a  result,  by  processes  now  familiar  to  us, 
these  feelings  get  repressed  or  detached.  But  since  they  still  have 
meaning  in  reference  to  the  real  social  situation,  they  remain  active, 
and  cause  anxiety  and  a  sense  of  guilt. 

What  a  relief  to  an  anxious  child  the  thought  of  a  wolf  can  be! 
It  was  not,  after  all,  the  parental  image  to  which  that  uncomfort- 
able complex  of  rage  and  fear  had  been  attached,  but  a  wolf  in  the 
grandmother's  guise.  Although  it  is  inconceivable  that  a  child  should 
want  to  kill  its  grandmother,  it  is  in  the  nature  of  a  wolf  to  do  so, 
and  hence  bears  thinking  about.  And  if  the  wolf  ate  up  the  beloved 
grandmother  to  whom  the  propitiatory  child  was  carrying  a  basket 
of  goodies,  how  much  more  appropriate  to  fear  and  hate  it,  although 
for  a  healthy  child  the  thought  of  a  wolf  is  not  really  very  frighten- 
ing except  when  the  wolf  is  also  one's  grandmother.  But  even  the 
wolf,  in  so  far  as  he  is  frightening,  is  killed  and  disposed  of,  not  by 
the  child,  but  by  a  kindly  woodcutter,  who  is,  like  the  parental 
figures,  a  protector  against  just  such  dangers  as  the  wolf  represents. 

The  importance  of  this  kind  of  analysis,  to  which  I  shall  return 
later  on,  is  not  to  show  that  an  emotionally  satisfactory  story  satis- 


442  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

fies  emotional  needs,  some  of  them  unconscious,  and  that  these  un- 
conscious elements  are  much  more  clearly  understood  as  a  result  of 
Freudian  techniques.  Most  critics  would  agree  to  this.  What  they 
question  is  the  value  of  Freudian  techniques  in  the  positive  and  dis- 
criminating judgment  of  art  as  art.  As  Lionel  Trilling  pointed  out 
in  a  recent  number  of  the  Partisan  Review,  the  acts  of  every  person 
are  influenced  by  the  unconscious,  and  if  the  writer  is  often  neurotic 
so  is  the  scientist  or  businessman.  What  is  important  about  the 
writer  is  his  "power  of  controlling  his  neuroticism.  He  shapes  his 
fantasies,  he  gives  them  social  reference."  The  writer  "works  in  the 
raw  material  we  all  have"  and  what  is  significant  is  what  he  does 
with  it,  and  that  in  turn  depends  on  his  artistic  gifts.  The  artist,  un- 
like the  dreamer,  dominates  his  illusion,  and  makes  it  serve  the  pur- 
poses of  closer  and  truer  relation  with  reality.  And  in  an  earlier 
article  in  the  Kenyon  Review  Mr.  Trilling  had  said  that  Freudian 
psychology,  by  its  founder's  own  admission,  "can  do  nothing  toward 
elucidation  of  the  nature  of  the  artistic  gift,  nor  can  it  explain  the 
means  by  which  the  artist  works — artistic  technique." 

Actually,  in  recent  years,  as  a  result  of  innumerable  case  studies, 
a  good  deal  of  light  has  been  thrown  on  the  differing  unconscious 
determinants  of  such  different  professional  interests  as  those  of  the 
inventor,  the  surgeon,  the  promoter,  the  merchant,  the  banker,  and 
the  scholar,  especially  when  they  have  a  strong  and  successful  drive 
behind  them.  The  early  lives  of  these  types  have  as  different 
"profiles"  as  those  outlined  in  psychosomatic  medicine  for  typical 
sufferers  from  diabetes  or  asthma  or  angina.  If  enough  of  the  indi- 
vidual's past  can  be  recovered,  talents  can  be  traced  to  emotional 
attachments  and  inhibitions  resulting  from  very  specific  conditions 
and  events  of  childhood.  Studies  of  wolf-boys  and  of  neglected  chil- 
dren show  that  intelligence  itself  is  a  social  product,  a  result  of  the 
child's  treatment  during  the  first  two  years.  The  idiot  is  a  "private" 
person. 

The  imaginative  writer's  interests  are  no  more  determined  by  un- 
conscious elements  than  those  of  the  scientist  and  merchant,  though 
they  do  not  find  expression  so  soon  or  so  directly  in  the  world  of 
fact  and  practical  affairs.  However  doctrinaire  and  artistically  naive 
it  may  appear,  Brill's  famous  early  essay  on  "Poetry  as  an  Oral 


Art  and  Anxiety  443 

Outlet"  helps  us  to  understand  the  emotional  satisfactions  which 
shape  the  writer's  talent.  But  if  we  are  learning  much  more  about 
the  artist's  nature  and  about  the  rather  special  way  by  which  he 
reaches  "reality"  and  deals  with  it,  this  is  not,  as  Mr.  Trilling  rightly 
contends,  the  same  thing  as  making  a  qualitative  evaluation  of  art 
itself.  In  the  orthodox  Freudian  journals,  art  has  been  treated  symp- 
tomatically  in  much  the  same  fashion  as  dreams,  although  in  the 
case  of  works  of  art  it  is  seldom  possible  to  practice  the  prolonged 
free-associational  examination  which  the  "deep"  analysis  of  a  dream 
requires.  The  emphasis  has  been  on  the  artist  rather  than  the  work 
of  art,  as  it  so  often  is  in  academic  scholarship,  and  the  effect  is 
reductive,  as  it  is  in  the  simpler  Marxist  criticism,  making  the  par- 
ticular qualities  of  a  work  of  art  effect-signs  of  the  psychic  or  social 
conditions  under  which  it  was  produced,  of  the  Oedipal  conflict  or 
the  contradictions  of  capitalism. 

An  artist's  changing  relations — never  free  from  conflict — with 
those  who  bring  him  up  as  a  child,  determine  his  character  and 
show  in  his  work.  Nor  can  his  work  fail  to  reflect,  directly  or  indi- 
rectly, the  social  conflicts  of  his  period.  It  is  not,  however,  primarily 
to  find  indications  of  these  inner  and  outer  conflicts  that  people 
read  books  and  look  at  paintings.  Psychiatrists  study  dreams  for  that 
purpose,  but  dreams  are  private,  and  they  have — according  to  Freud 
— only  one  condition  to  satisfy,  that  they  should  permit  the  sleeper 
to  go  on  sleeping.  Though  the  artist  may  create  to  please  himself, 
or  as  a  form  of  daydreaming,  his  work  is  art  to  the  extent  that  it  is 
communal,  that  it  has  social  meaning.  For  this  there  are  many  con- 
ditions to  fulfill,  and  many  kinds  and  degrees  of  success  in  fulfilling 
them,  though  we  may  note  that  in  doing  this  art  uses  many  of  the 
symbols  and  the  mechanisms  of  displacement,  condensation,  split- 
ting and  the  like  which  Freud  defined  in  his  study  of  the  dream.  As 
opposed  to  the  dream,  however,  art  is  a  positive,  consciously  di- 
rected social  accomplishment,  like  the  work  of  the  scientist,  the 
manufacturer,  the  builder. 

Although  it  may  be  incidentally  interesting  to  know  what  made  a 
man  a  scientist — what  unconscious  needs,  displaced  affections,  sym- 
bolic associations — we  need  only  understand  his  particular  science 
to  evaluate  the  success  of  a  scientific  experiment.  The  critical  refer- 


444  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

ences  are  not  to  the  scientist's  inner  life  but  to  the  conditions  of  the 
experiment  and  the  hypothesis  which  it  was  intended  to  establish, 
as  the  judgment  of  a  diplomatic  negotiation  takes  into  account  the 
world  situation  at  the  time  and  the  purposes  the  negotiators  were 
trying  to  accomplish.  So,  we  may  say,  a  critic  need  take  into  ac- 
count only  artistic  means  and  purposes  in  evaluating,  which  is  his 
primary  concern,  the  success  with  which  an  artist  fulfills  the  condi- 
tions of  his  art  in  terms  of  that  art. 

But  when  all  this  is  said,  and  the  critic  has  protected  his  domain 
against  the  encroachments  of  the  psychologists,  the  difficulties  that 
have  always  beset  aesthetic  inquiry  are  still  not  solved.  For  just 
what  are  the  conditions  that  art  must  satisfy,  and  what  objective 
references  have  we  for  deciding  its  success  in  satisfying  them? 

In  the  analysis  of  the  tale  of  Little  Red  Ridinghood,  we  saw  with 
what  considerable  economy  and  ingenuity  it  met  the  conditions  that 
were  set  for  it  by  certain  situations  to  which  it  had  reference  in  the 
unconscious  psychic  life  of  its  young  listeners.  The  wolf  had  to 
replace  the  grandmother  and  yet  be  quite  clearly  separated,  as  a 
person,  from  the  grandmother.  The  child  should  be  involved  in  the 
experience,  and  yet  in  such  a  way  that  she  should  not  feel  responsi- 
bly implicated  in  the  grandmother's  death.  The  wolf  should  be  killed 
by  a  protective  parental  figure.  In  the  version  by  the  brothers  Grimm, 
both  Red  Ridinghood  and  the  grandmother  are  taken  out  alive  from 
the  stomach  of  the  wolf.  Children,  observing  pregnant  women,  com- 
monly suppose  that  the  babies  are  in  the  stomach.  How  did  they 
they  get  in?  The  mothers  must  have  swallowed  them.  "I  could  just 
eat  him  up,"  adoring  elders  say  of  luscious  infants.  The  children 
take  this  more  or  less  literally,  since  they  themselves  are  aggressive 
biters.  This  all  causes  a  certain  amount  of  anxiety,  and  it  is  a  relief 
to  have  the  anxiety  acknowledged  and  dealt  with  socially  in  the 
projections  and  transferences  of  a  dramatic  fable.  In  real  life,  ordi- 
narily, only  wolves  and  tigers  eat  infants,  but  human  and  divine 
cannibalism  is  common  in  literature;  in  Swift's  "Modest  Proposal," 
for  instance,  or  Hansel  and  Gretel,  or  pre-Olympian  myth  as  re- 
ported by  Hesiod.  A  great  deal  can  be  made  of  other  significant 
details  in  Little  Red  Ridinghood,  such  as  the  redness  of  the  hood, 
but  they  need  not  detain  us  now. 


Art  and  Anxiety  445 

Although  the  best-loved  folk  tales  use  dream  symbols,  they  are  not 
like  dreams,  but  have  the  completeness,  coherence,  and  unity  of  a 
work  of  art.  A  long  series  of  tellers  have  shaped  the  material,  given 
it  significant  form,  brought  it  to  a  satisfying  conclusion.  Obviously 
their  own  unconsciousnesses  have  a  part  in  the  process,  but  the 
creative  narrators  are  also  influenced  by  stories  they  enjoyed  as  chil- 
dren, by  their  previous  successes  and  failures  in  arousing  or  delight- 
ing a  youthful  audience,  and  by  an  intuitive  sense  of  what  any  given 
audience  wants.  They  are  like  palm  readers  who  can  tell  when  they 
are  getting  close  to  the  truth  by  slight  physical  responses  in  the  hand 
itself.  Though  the  folk  tale  is  an  art  form,  criticism  of  it  is  limited 
and  not  very  revealing  if  it  cannot  take  into  account  these  psychic 
conditions  which  ultimately  determine  the  success  or  failure  of  a 
tale.  We  cannot  judge  the  form  of  a  work  of  art  unless  we  see  how 
that  form  is  related  to  its  function.  We  can  feel  that  a  story  is  suc- 
cessful, and  make  a  good  many  pertinent  observations  in  comparing 
it  with  other  stories,  following  critically  and  empirically  the  path 
that  the  writer  follows,  partly  consciously,  partly  intuitively,  in  the 
experimental  mastery  of  his  art.  But  we  cannot  very  fully  or  pro- 
foundly explain  a  story's  success  without  knowing  actually  what  it 
is  that  a  story  does. 

Although  imaginative  literature  is  often  informative,  this  is  not  its 
distinguishing  characteristic,  and  a  simple  story  like  Red  Ridinghood 
does  not,  in  any  sense,  lead  its  hearers  to  a  knowledge  of  relation- 
ships. Its  symbols  evoke  responses  which  are  essentially  conditioned 
reflexes,  and  a  knowledge  on  the  child's  part  of  the  relationship  of 
stimulus  to  response  is  neither  the  cause  nor  the  result  of  his  being 
moved  by  the  story,  nor  will  a  statement  describing  any  such  rela- 
tionship affect  very  much  its  operations,  any  more  than  a  psychia- 
trist's pointing  out,  early  in  an  analysis,  the  probable  cause  of  a 
phobia  can  do  much  to  lessen  its  intensity. 

A  successful  folk  tale  gains  its  effect  by  awakening  reflexively, 
with  symbols  of  a  particular  kind,  unconscious  impulses.  And  any 
description  or  definition  of  the  artistic  experience  which  fails  to  take 
into  account  these  significant  relations  to  an  inner  reality  will  neces- 
sarily seem  limited  or  mysterious,  especially  since  it  must  also  rec- 
ognize that  the  most  significant  relations  in  art  are  not  to  an  external 


446  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

reality,  social  or  historical,  outside  the  bounds  of  the  individual, 
self-contained  work  of  art.  Yet  a  failure  to  recognize  the  importance 
of  responses  in  the  unconscious  is  found  even  in  the  formulations 
of  Deweyans  and  philosophical  naturalists  who  might  be  expected 
to  be  most  sympathetic  to  a  functional  and  psychologic  interpreta- 
tion of  art. 

In  "A  Natural  History  of  the  Aesthetic  Transaction,"  which  Eliseo 
Vivas  contributed  to  the  symposium,  Naturalism  and  the  Human 
Spirit,  he  differentiated  art  from  morals,  science,  and  religion, 
wherein  we  think  of  causes  and  consequences,  and  wherein  the  ob- 
ject of  the  experience  is,  so  to  speak,  "a  moment  connected  with  a 
wider  complex  of  moments  in  a  transitive  chain  that  goes  on  indefi- 
nitely." The  aesthetic  experience,  on  the  contrary,  is  "an  experience 
of  rapt  attention  which  involves  the  intransitive  apprehension  of  an 
object's  immanent  meanings  in  their  full  presentational  immediacy." 
Rapt  attention  there  certainly  is,  when  a  story  is  well  told,  and  we 
know  a  good  deal  about  the  means  by  which  that  state  of  raptness 
is  created,  but  what  are  these  immanent  meanings  and  how  do  they 
draw  to  themselves  the  emotions  they  arouse?  In  this  "intransitive" 
situation,  since  movement  cannot  go  beyond  the  bounds  of  the  self- 
contained  and  self-sufficient  work  of  art,  it  must  necessarily  be  move- 
ment within  the  psyche  of  the  recipient  or  contemplator.  Through 
giving  oneself  up  to  the  artist  as  through  giving  oneself  up  to  the 
analyst,  a  transfer  occurs  which  attaches  to  the  present  and  actual 
experiences  apparently  presented  in  the  art,  emotional  meanings 
proper  to  an  earlier  and  now  buried  experience. 


To  say  that  art  gives  expression  to  repressed  material  of  great 
emotional  significance  is  merely  a  beginning,  of  course,  and  to  stop 
there  is  to  remain  with  the  earlier  Freudian  interpretation  of  art 
against  which  so  many  objections  have  properly  been  made.  If  art 
is  merely  a  substitute  gratification  of  repressed  desires  in  such  dis- 
guised form  that  they  can  get  by  the  censor,  then  art  is  essentially 
the  same  as  a  dream,  even  though  it  may,  by  its  realism  and  coher- 


Art  and  Anxiety  447 

ence,  seem  to  take  account  of  external  reality.  And  criticism  is  largely 
a  matter  of  penetrating  the  disguises  and  discovering  what  is  really 
behind  them.  It  has  no  criteria  for  the  work  of  art  as  such,  except 
the  extent  to  which  it  reveals  its  creator's  early  inner  life;  its  ap- 
proach is  scientific,  cognitive,  referential. 

But  such  an  approach  was  inadequate  artistically  because  it  was 
inadequate  psychologically.  Freud  so  related  sex,  libido  and  love 
that  family  and  social  relationships  could  exist  only  at  the  expense 
of  instinctual  gratifications;  the  role  of  the  superego  was  negative 
and  repressive;  and  although  social  activities  could  be  understood 
as  projections,  displacements  and  transformations  of  instinctual  and 
unconscious  needs,  the  stages  of  individual  psychic  development 
were  considered  fixed,  phylogenetically,  for  all  persons,  and  no  ade- 
quate account  was  taken  of  the  reciprocal  influence  of  individual 
cultures  and  particular  social  circumstances  in  shaping  the  develop- 
ment, both  conscious  and  unconscious,  of  the  individual. 

Such  ideas  have  been  under  extensive  revision  for  years  on  both 
sides  of  the  Atlantic,  and  the  value  of  psychiatry  in  understanding 
the  literary  process  need  no  longer  be  judged  by  the  earlier  inade- 
quacies of  Freudian  doctrine.  It  seems  to  me,  for  instance,  that  in 
discussions  of  anxiety,  particularly  in  the  English  psychoanalytic 
journals,  by  writers  like  Melanie  Klein,  Ella  Freeman  Sharpe, 
W.  D.  R.  Fairbairn,  Edward  Glover  and  Marjorie  Brierley,  we  not 
only  understand  the  positive  psychic  role  of  social  influences,  but 
can  analyze  the  conditions  that  art  which  has  the  profoundest  effect 
must  meet  in  its  use  of  both  conscious  and  unconscious  materials. 
We  can  therefore  relevantly  judge  it,  not  for  what  it  reveals,  but  for 
what  it  does. 

As  an  approach  to  these  ideas  can  we  analyze  a  more  sophis- 
ticated piece  of  literature,  with  much  more  social  and  intellectual 
content,  in  the  same  terms  as  Little  Red  Ridinghood?  In  Richard 
Wright's  Native  Son  the  decisive  event  is  the  murder  of  a  young 
white  girl  by  a  Negro,  and  the  burning  of  her  body  in  the  furnace,  a 
very  unlikely  subject,  one  might  think,  for  a  young  Negro  to  choose 
for  a  propagandist  novel.  But  the  selection  of  this  scene  was  deter- 
mined by  a  forgotten  incident  of  great  emotional  significance  for  the 
writer,  and  its  imaginative  development  expressed  both  hatred  for 


448  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  girl,  as  white,  and  strong  sexual  desire  for  her,  unconsummated 
even  in  the  imagination  except  through  the  symbolic  rape  of  murder. 
Such  impulses  are  dangerous  psychically  as  well  as  socially,  and 
cause  much  anxiety.  They  cannot  always  be  expressed  so  frankly. 
In  much  art  which  is  predominantly  defensive  they  are  so  deeply 
buried  that  they  can  hardly  be  discerned.  When  such  impulses  are 
dramatized,  it  must  be  in  conjunction  with  forms  of  punishment. 
This  is  not  primarily  to  make  the  fantasy  socially  acceptable;  the 
inner  need  for  punishment  is  just  as  deeply  motivated  as  the  impulse 
to  crime,  and  is  inseparable  from  it.  Our  antiquated  system  of  courts 
and  prisons  is  maintained  not  so  much  because  it  is  effective  in  pre- 
venting crime,  but  because  it  satisfies  the  idea  of  inevitable  punish- 
ment in  the  minds  of  noncriminals  who  otherwise  would  be  made 
anxious  by  their  imaginative  excitement  over  crime  in  the  news- 
papers and  popular  literature. 

In  Richard  Wright's  case,  however,  the  legal  prosecution  of  Bigger 
Thomas  was  not  enough,  because  of  the  author's  feelings  that  the 
law,  on  another  level,  represented  a  threat  to  him  in  its  injustice 
toward  Negroes,  a_kind  of  injustice  that  Communism  might  be  ex- 
pected to  abolish.  And  as  in  Little  Red  Ridinghood,  though  Bigger 
Thomas  acted  as  agent  for  the  writer  and  reader  in  satisfying  for- 
bidden wishes,  it  was  necessary  for  him  to  be  separated  from  them 
in  other  respects.  This  was  done,  not  so  much  by  making  him  a 
different  kind  of  person,  as  by  showing,  in  the  manner  of  the  natu- 
ralist novel,  that  Bigger's  crime  was  a  consequence  of  his  social  cir- 
cumstances, and  therefore  as  appropriate  and  understandable  as  the 
wolf's  eating  the  grandmother.  Although  the  author  is  a  Negro  and 
most  readers  are  white,  the  psychic  situation  is  the  same,  except 
that  Bigger's  being  a  Negro  makes  our  conscious  separation  from 
the  murderer  easier.  And  despite  its  social  doctrines  the  book  makes 
full  emotional  and  imaginative  use  of  the  deeper  prejudices  against 
Negroes  and  the  part  they  play  in  dream  fantasies,  of  women  espe- 
cially. But  the  woman  in  the  novel  is  punished,  too,  of  course. 

Although  he  did  not  analyze  the  novel  in  this  fashion,  Dr.  Frederic 
Wertham  has  recently  published  a  brief  report  on  conversations  with 
Richard  Wright  in  which  he  uncovered  some  unconscious  determi- 
nants of  the  material  in  Native  Son.  In  trying  to  judge  the  extent  to 


Art  and  Anxiety  449 

which  artists  do  consciously  shape  their  material,  we  should  notice 
Dr.  Wertham's  report  that  "the  root  experiences  intimately  related 
to  the  key  scene  of  the  novel  were  unavailable  to  his  consciousness 
at  the  time  of  the  novel  and  at  the  beginning  of  our  experiment 
when  he  reflected  on  the  sources  of  his  inspiration  for  the  creation 
of  the  Dalton  household,"  and  that  "comparison  of  the  long-forgotten 
memories  presented  in  this  study  with  the  self -explanation  of  Native 
Son  in  'How  Bigger  Was  Born'  show  the  latter  is  a  conscious  ration- 
alization." 

Both  Native  Son  and  Little  Red  Ridinghood  may  be  compared 
to  what  Miss  Sharpe  calls  the  "cautionary  tale."  A  simple  example 
is:  If  you  go  into  the  jungle,  a  lion  may  eat  you.  This  seems  too 
simple.  After  all,  lions  do  eat  people,  and  a  child  may  pleasantly 
excite  himself  with  thoughts  of  such  a  remote  danger.  But  we  know 
what  a  lion  meant  in  the  case  of  a  little  boy  reported  by  Anna  Freud 
in  her  book,  The  Ego  and  the  Mechanisms  of  Defense. 

In  his  fantasies,  this  lad  was  attended  by  a  tame  lion,  very  fierce 
in  demeanor.  When  grown-ups  of  his  acquaintance  first  saw  it,  they 
were  terrified,  but  their  terror  changed  to  wonder  when  they  found 
the  beast  completely  submissive  to  the  boy's  command.  Although 
he  was  not  aware  of  the  connection,  a  train  of  associational  patterns 
made  it  clear  that  the  lion  was  his  father,  and  that  the  fantasy  gave 
the  boy  relief  by  letting  him  imagine  himself  in  complete  control  of  a 
person  whose  behavior  actually  filled  him  with  confusion  and  anxiety. 
And  if  we  assign  "jungle"  or  "bush"  its  usual  meaning  in  Freudian 
symbolism,  the  cautionary  sentence,  "If  you  go  in  the  jungle  a  lion 
will  eat  you,"  may  be  read  as  a  threat  from  the  father  in  an  Oedipal 
situation. 

This  assigning  of  symbolic  or  derived  value  to  events  in  outer 
reality  that  appear  to  have  their  own  quite  adequate  tensions  and 
excitements  becomes  far  more  plausible  if  we  consider  the  way  chil- 
dren are  brought  up  in  our  civilization.  In  the  early  years  parents 
intervene  at  all  points  in  children's  experience  of  the  outer  world. 
Prolonged  battles,  full  of  emotion  on  both  sides,  go  on  over  feeding 
and  toilet  training.  A  child  is  taught  to  avoid  situations  of  danger, 
not  by  experiencing  the  practical  consequences,  but  by  parental  re- 
straint, enforced  by  punishments,  far  more  complicated  in  aspect 


450  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

than  a  fall  or  a  cut  finger.  The  same  prohibitions  and  punishments 
are  used  against  aggressive  and  disrespectful  behavior.  Since  the 
reasons  are  equally  incomprehensible,  it  is  not  surprising  that  a  child 
should  not  at  first  distinguish  between  the  withdrawing  of  his  hand 
from  a  hot  iron  and  from  his  penis,  and  that  because  of  this  early 
association,  accidents  and  the  excitement  of  physical  dangers  often 
replace  as  "screen  memories"  painful  incidents  and  excitements  of 
quite  another  kind. 

But  obviously,  as  we  noted  in  examining  Little  Red  Ridinghood, 
the  relation  of  parents  to  children  is  not  chiefly  one  of  coercion  and 
restraint.  The  child  not  only  finds  within  the  family  his  comfort,  his 
security  and  his  happiness,  but  he  becomes  humane  and  social  by 
constant  imitation  of  those  about  him,  by  making  their  ways  his 
own.  He  repeats  not  only  the  actions  and  words  of  other  members 
of  his  family,  but  also  their  emotional  responses  to  objects  and  in- 
cidents with  which  he  has  had  little  direct  experience.  Even  their 
forbidding  what  he  wants  to  do  becomes  part  of  him,  and  conscious 
or  unconscious  inhibition  takes  the  place  of  external  restraint.  It  is 
very  difficult  to  say  at  what  point  this  imitated  material  becomes  his 
own,  to  distinguish  between  original  impulses  and  the  remembered 
actions  of  others,  between  original  thoughts  and  the  echoes  of  what 
others  have  said,  a  difficulty  that  makes  it  easy  to  understand 
paranoia  and  other  phenomena  of  projection,  in  which  one's  own 
thoughts  and  wishes  are  mistaken  for  the  words  and  deeds  of  other 
men. 

Peculiar  to  the  individual  is  the  selection  and  organization, 
conscious  or  unconscious,  of  this  social  material,  which  is  deeply 
involved  emotionally  with  the  people  from  whom  it  is  adopted. 
And  some  of  it,  for  reasons  discussed  earlier,  becomes  repressed. 
Attached  to  these  repressed  impulses  are  the  parental  aggressions 
against  them,  which  make  the  parents  seem  "bad  objects."  These 
feelings  occasion  anxiety  and  a  sense  of  separation  which  leads  in 
turn  to  a  desire  to  be  identified  with  the  parents  in  their  "good" 
aspects,  to  be  reunited  with  them  in  security  and  love. 

Repressed  destructive  feelings  are  disintegrative,  not  only  because 
they  split  up  the  relationship  with  loved  persons,  but  because  they 
isolate  a  part  of  the  self.  Love  is  integrative,  and  of  this  integration, 


A  rt  and  A  nxiety  451 

which  is  social  in  character,  the  specifically  sexual  is  only  a  part 
and  seldom  a  dominant  part.  Premature  or  excessive  sexuality  in 
children  results  from  emotional  insecurity,  and  in  later  life  sexual- 
ity can  be  used  as  a  social  instrument,  as  Alexander  R.  Martin  has 
said,  "in  the  service  of  degradation,  humiliation  and  deprivation." 
The  fundamental  pattern  is  one  of  conflict  and  reconciliation,  of 
separation  and  return,  of  man's  fall  and  return  to  grace.  It  is  the 
pattern  of  analytic  therapy,  with  the  emotional  transfer  to  the  thera- 
pist, and  with  the  reintegrative  recovery,  if  the  analysis  is  success- 
ful, of  lost  parts  of  the  self. 

But  we  also  know  from  analysis  that  within  this  pattern  many 
variations  and  complexities  are  possible  in  the  attempts  to  deal  with 
repressed  material,  or  with  internalized  "bad  objects"  which  are 
profoundly  needed  but  also  associated  with  pain  and  separation,  as 
the  breast  may  be  after  weaning.  W.  R.  D.  Fairbairn  shows  how 
guilt  develops  as  a  moral  defense  against  the  terrible  aspects  of 
parental  figures.  Going  further  than  the  small  boy  in  Anna  Freud's 
case,  a  child  may  convert  an  original  situation  in  which  he  is  sur- 
rounded by  bad  objects  into  a  new  situation  in  which  the  objects 
are  good  and  he  himself  is  bad.  We  may  observe  different  forms  of 
this  process  in  the  relations  of  Kafka  and  Kierkegaard  to  their 
fathers,  and  in  the  way  in  which  Dostoevsky  "converted"  the  cruelty 
with  which  he  was  treated  by  the  Tsar.  And  in  our  time  when 
terribleness  outside  us  reinforces  the  terrible  within,  and  loss  of 
faith  in  social  reform  has,  for  many,  wiped  out  this  hopeful  defense 
against  anxiety,  it  is  easy  to  understand  why  a  preoccupation  with 
sin  and  guilt  has  reappeared  and  why  grace  has  been  sought  in  a 
supernatural  union  rather  than  in  identification  with  political  move- 
ments or  with  socialist  reconstruction.  Analysts  think  that  such  de- 
fense may  take  other  forms,  as  in  a  sadistic,  demonic  identification 
with  bad  objects,  or  in  a  despairing  masochistic  giving  up  to  them, 
which  results  in  what  Freud  called  the  death  wish,  or  an  attempt  to 
be  free  of  them  in  both  their  needed  and  repellent  aspects,  by  at- 
tributing magic  strengths  to  one's  own  body  and  products — excre- 
ments, for  instance,  on  an  infantile  level,  or  thoughts  and  words 
later  on. 

The  artist's  forms  of  defense  against  anxiety,  or  relief  from  it,  are 


452  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

highly  varied  and  operate  on  every  level  from  that  of  popular  fic- 
tion which  fantasies  over  and  over  again  the  solution  of  conscious 
problems  and  the  physical  reunion  with  the  beloved,  to  those  pro- 
founder  works  which  deal  symbolically  and  indirectly  with  buried 
materials,  and  whose  value  and  meaning  have  been  the  subjects  of 
so  much  aesthetic  controversy. 

Countering  the  fears  aroused  by  destructive  impulses  and  fantasies 
are  the  efforts  at  restitution,  reconstruction  and  reparation.  The 
wholeness  and  integrity  of  the  work,  on  which  Eliseo  Vivas  put  such 
emphasis,  its  separateness  and  identity,  marked  off  as  with  the  black 
lines  around  a  Rouault  figure,  the  way  it  returns  upon  itself  instead 
of  merging  with  the  world  outside,  the  realism  and  living  quality  of 
the  persons  and  things  recreated  in  it — all  these  qualities  strengthen 
both  creator  and  audience  against  ideas  of  dissolution  and  dis- 
memberment, ideas  which  are  also  usually  expressed  or  implied  by 
the  contents,  but  not  always,  when  an  artist  is  as  deeply  repressed 
as,  for  instance,  was  Cezanne.  And  in  the  design  of  a  work,  in  its 
metrical  or  musical  or  architectonic  recurrences,  there  is  not  merely 
the  soothing,  hypnotic  maternal  quality  which  Brill  has  discussed, 
and  which  facilitates  emotional  transfer,  but  also  a  constant  fulfill- 
ing of  promises,  a  relieving  of  uncertainties  and  tensions,  in  the 
happy  return  of  the  expected  and  desired,  in  the  predictable  com- 
pletion of  patterns,  in  the  revelation  of  something  unknown,  which, 
as  the  unknown,  had  aroused  emotions  proper  to  our  own  attempts 
to  recover  and  master  detached  and  antagonistic  elements  within 
ourselves. 

A  similar  analysis  can  be  made  of  humor,  which  is  only  in  part 
th&  permitted  social  gratification  of  sexual  or  sadistic^impulses . 
Dominantly  it  is  an  attempt  to  relieve  anxiety  bv  minimizing  the 
threatening  aspects  of  the  strange,  the  aggressive,  the  Hiffir.nlt  and 
the-  ohsqire,  and  all  that  recalls  early  painful  oppressions,  oj  a.  pa- 
ternal  character.  But  this  humor  works  only  under  special  conditions. 
Its  depreciations  must  not  threaten  the  real  social  and  emotional 
interests  of  its  hearers,  and  it  needs  more  than  most  forms  the  re- 
assurance of  being  shared,  of  being  approved  and  laughed  at,  to 
relieve  the  fears  caused  by  the  cruelty  and  destructiveness  it  usually 
also  contains.  That  its  points  should  be  objectively  valid,  that  is, 


A  rt  and  A  nxiety  453 

should  be  true— is  also  a  reassurance,  but  by  no  means  essential, 
any  more  than  external  plausibility  was  for  the  effectiveness  of  Little 
Red  Ridinghood. 

For  in  humor,  as  in  other  literary  processes,  public  and  intellec- 
tual material  derives  its  significance  from  its  relation  to  inner  con- 
flicts and  from  the  way  in  which  it  socializes  its  materials,  and  only 
secondarily  from  the  factual  or  theoretic  soundness  of  what  it  says. 
Art  is  a  form  of  activity,  not  a  form  of  truth,  and  special  structures 
and  relationships  are  aspects  of  its  functions  and  of  the  special  con- 
ditions under  which  it  works.  It  seems  to  me  that  as  a  result  of  psy- 
chiatric studies  we  are  about  to  understand  the  values  and  forms  of 
art  much  more  profoundly  than  we  have  been  able  to  before.  What 
I  have  said  here,  of  course,  is  abstract  and  hypothetical,  and  can  be 
established  only  by  further  work  in  psychiatry,  and  by  much  patient 
and  appreciative  re-examination  of  works  of  art  themselves.  The 
social  and  psychological  aspects  of  art,  as  of  individual  experience, 
cannot  really  be  separated,  except  for  convenience  of  discourse,  and 
such  a  reinterpretation  of  art — though  my  emphasis  here  has  been 
psychological — is  not  inconsistent  with  a  social  interpretation  of  art, 
even  of  the  Marxist  variety,  but  is  necessary  to  it. 


Leslie  A.  Fiedler 


A* 


Archetype  and  Signature 


A  central  dogma  of  much  recent  criticism  asserts 
that  biographical  information  is  irrelevant  to  the  understanding  and 
evaluation  of  poems,  and  that  conversely,  poems  cannot  legiti- 
mately be  used  as  material  for  biography.  This  double  contention 
is  part  of  a  larger  position  which  holds  that  history  is  history  and 
art  is  art,  and  that  to  talk  about  one  in  terms  of  the  other  is  to 
court  disaster.  In  so  far  as  this  position  rests  upon  the  immortal 
platitude  that  it  is  good  to  know  what  one  is  talking  about,  it  is 
unexceptionable;  in  so  far  as  it  is  a  reaction  based  upon  the  pro- 
cedures of  pre-Freudian  critics,  it  is  hopelessly  outdated;  and  in 
so  far  as  it  depends  upon  the  extreme  nominalist  definition  of  a 
work  of  art,  held  by  many  "formalists"  quite  unawares,  it  is  meta- 
physically reprehensible.  It  has  the  further  inconvenience  of  being 
quite  unusable  in  the  practical  sphere  (all  of  its  proponents,  in 
proportion  as  they  are  sensitive  critics,  immediately  betray  it  when 
speaking  of  specific  works,  and  particularly  of  large  bodies  of 
work);  and,  as  if  that  were  not  enough,  it  is  in  blatant  contradic- 
tion with  the  assumptions  of  most  serious  practicing  writers. 

That  the  antibiographical  position  was  once  "useful,"  whatever 
454 


Archetype  and  Signature  455 

its  truth,  cannot  be  denied;  it  was  even  once,  what  is  considerably 
rarer  in  the  field  of  criticism,  amusing;  but  for  a  long  time  now  it 
has  been  threatening  to  turn  into  one  of  those  annoying  cliches  of 
the  intellectually  middle-aged,  proffered  with  all  the  air  of  a  stimu- 
lating heresy.  The  position  was  born  in  dual  protest  against  an 
excess  of  Romantic  criticism  and  one  of  "scientific  scholarship." 
Romantic  aesthetics  appeared  bent  on  dissolving  the  formally  real- 
ized "objective"  elements  in  works  of  arts  into  "expression  of 
personality";  while  the  "scholars,"  in  revolt  against  Romantic  sub- 
jectivity, seemed  set  on  casting  out  all  the  more  shifty  questions 
of  value  and  gestalt  as  "subjective,"  and  concentrating  on  the  kind 
of  "facts"  amenable  to  scientific  verification.  Needless  to  say,  it 
was  not  the  newer  psychological  sciences  that  the  "scholars"  had 
in  mind,  but  such  purer  disciplines  as  physics  and  biology.  It  was 
at  this  point  that  it  became  fashionable  to  talk  about  literary  study 
as  "research,"  and  graphs  and  tables  began  to  appear  in  analyses 
of  works  of  art. 

Both  the  "scholarly"  and  the  Romantic  approaches  struck  the 
antibiographists  as  "reductive" — attempts  to  prove  that  the  work 
of  art  was  nothing  but  the  personality  of  the  Genius  behind  it,  or 
the  sum  total  of  its  genetic  factors.  In  answer  to  both  heresies  of 
attack,  the  antibiographist  offered  what  he  came  to  call  the  "in- 
trinsic" approach,  which  turned  out,  alas,  to  be  another  nothing  but 
under  its  show  of  righteous  indignation,  namely,  the  contention 
,.that  a  poem  was  nothing  but  "words,"  and  its  analysis  therefore 
properly  nothing  but  a  study  of  syntax  and  semantics.  Any  attempt 
to  illuminate  a  poem  by  reference  to  its  author's  life  came  therefore 
to  be  regarded  with  horror,  unless  it  confined  itself  to  an  examina- 
tion of  his  "idiosyncratic  use  of  words."  This  is  not  parody,  but 
direct  quotation. 

By  this  time,  a  generation  of  critics  have  grown  up,  of  whom 
I  am  one,  to  whom  the  contention  that  biographical  material  is 
irrelevant  to  the  "essential  experience"  of  a  poem  has  been  taught 
as  basic  doctrine.  The  word  "experience"  is  important;  it  comes 
out  of  I.  A.  Richards  at  his  most  scientizing;  and  along  with  the 
"extrinsic-intrinsic"  metaphor  is  a  key  to  the  antibiographist  point 
of  view.  It  must  be  understood  for  what  the  word  "experience"  is 


456  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

being  substituted:  as  an  "experience,"  a  poem  is  no  longer  regarded 
as  an  "imitation,"  in  any  of  the  received  senses  of  the  word;  nor 
even  as  an  "expression"  in  the  Crocean  sense;  and  above  all,  not 
as  a  "communication."  All  three  possible  substitute  terms  imply 
a  necessary  interconnectedness  between  the  art  object  and  some 
other  area  of  experience — or  at  least  an  essentially  intended'  point- 
ing outward  or  inward  toward  some  independently  existent  other- 
ness. This  is  distasteful  to  the  antibiographist,  who  shows  the  ordi- 
nary nominalist  uneasiness  at  any  suggestion  that  there  are  realities 
more  comprehensive  than  particulars,  to  which  words  only  refer. 

An  odd  phenomenon  is  the  support  of  a  position  to  which  Nomi- 
nalism is  logically  necessary,  by  many  confirmed  antiscientizers 
and  realists;  they  are  betrayed  into  their  ill-advised  fellow-travel- 
ing, I  think,  by  an  excess  of  anti-Romanticism.  It  is  no  longer  as 
fashionable  as  it  once  was  to  publicly  anathematize  Shelley  and 
Swinburne,  but  the  bias  persists  as  a  real  force  in  current  critical 
practice,  and  cuts  off  many,  to  whom  the  position  would  be  tem- 
peramentally and  metaphysically  attractive,  from  Expressionism^ 
What  the  modern  sensibility  finds  particularly  unsympathetic  in 
some  Romantic  writing  has  been  called,  misleadingly  I  think,  "the 
exploitation  of  personality";  it  is  rather  a  tendency  toward  the 
excessively  "programmatic."  Just  as  music  and  painting  can  be  too 
"literary,"  so  literature  itself  can  be  too  "literary."  In  reaction 
against  the  programmatic,  there  are  two  possible  paths,  more 
deeply  into  and  through  the  personalism  of  Romanticism  to  Ex- 
pressionism, or  outward  and  away  toward  the  sort  of  "abstraction" 
achieved  in  cubist  painting. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  there  has  been  at  work  all  along  in  our 
period  an  underground,  and  probably  harmful,  analogy  between 
poetry  and  the  plastic  arts.  A  poem,  the  feeling  has  been,  should 
be  as  "palpable  and  mute"  not  merely  as  an  actual  fruit,  but  as 
the  fruit  become  pure  color  and  texture  of  Picasso  or  Matisse.  As 
pictures  have  become  frankly  paint,  so  should  poems  be  frankly 
words.  "A  poem  should  not  mean  but  be."  There  is  the  slogan  of 
the  movement! 

It  is  a  rather  nice  phrase  in  the  limited  context  of  MacLeish's 
little  poem,  but  a  dangerous  fuIUblown  aesthetic  position.  The  no- 


Archetype  and  Signature  457 

tion  that  a  work  of  art  is,  or  should  be,  absolutely  self-contained, 
a  discrete  set  of  mutually  interrelated  references,  needs  only  to  be 
stated  clearly  to  seem  the  reductio  ad  absurdum  which  it  is.  Yet 
this  belief  in  the  poem  as  a  closed  system,  "cut-off"  in  ideal  isola- 
tion, descends  from  the  realm  of  theoretical  criticism  to  practical 
criticism  and  classroom  pedagogy  (if  not  in  practice,  at  least  as 
an  institutionalized  hypocrisy)  to  become  the  leitmotif  of  the  New  ^ 
Teacher:  "Stay  inside  the  poem!"  Mu*JC*f/c/ 

The  narrative  and  dramatic  poem,  finally  poetic  drama  itself,  is 
assimilated  to  a  formulation,  even  apparently  applicable  only  to  a 
lyric  of  the  most  absolute  purity — and  it  becomes  heretical  to  treat 
the  work  as  anything  but  words,  to  ask  those  questions  which  attest 
our  conviction  that  the  work  of  art  is  "real";  that  in  the  poem,  the 
whole  is  greater  than  the  sum  of  its  parts;  that  certain  created 
actions  and  characters  exist,  in  some  sense,  outside  of  their  for- 
malizations. How  long  was  Hamlet  in  Wittenberg?  How  many  chil- 
dren did  Lady  Macbeth  have?  In  what  sense  does  Prospero  speak 
for  Shakespeare?  What  developing  sensibility  can  be  inferred  from 
the  Shakespearean  corpus  and  be  called  (what  else?)  Shakespeare? 
We  cannot  ask  these  questions  in  the  dewy  innocence  with  which 
they  were  first  posed;  we  restate  them  on  the  second  convolution, 
aware  of  all  the  arguments  against  them,  and  the  more  convinced 
that  they  are  essential,  and  cannot  be  shelved  any  more  than  can 
those  questions  about  the  ends  and  origins  of  existence  which 
have  also  been  recently  declared  "unreal." 

Closely  associated  with  the  Richardsian  experiential-semantic 
approach  in  the  total  position  of  the  antibiographist,  is  the  psy- 
chological notion  of  the  poem  as  an  "objective  correlative"  or  a 
complex  of  "objective  correlatives"  of  the  poet's  emotional  re- 
sponses to  the  given  world.  Mr.  Eliot's  term  is  as  elusive  as  it  is 
appealing;  but  I  am  concerned  here  (Mr.  Eliseo  Vivas  has  else- 
where discussed  from  the  "intrinsicist"  point  of  view  other  of  its 
difficulties)  only  with  the  adjective  "objective"  in  one  of  its  possi- 
ble implications.  Whatever  its  origins,  Mr.  Eliot  seems  to  be  assert- 
ing, a  poem  succeeds,  as  a  poem,  in  so  far  as  it  is  detached  from 
the  subjectivity  of  its  maker.  The  poem  is  achieved  by  a  process 
of  objectification,  and  can  be  legitimately  examined  and  understood 


458  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

only  as  an  "object."  This  formulation  leaves  a  somewhat  second- 
best  use  for  the  biographical  approach,  as  a  way  of  explaining 
the  particular  badness  of  certain  kinds  of  bad  poems,  e.g.,  Roman- 
tic verse  and  Shakespeare's  Hamlet. 

From  this  presumed  insight  follows  the  deprivation  of  the  poet's 
right  to  explain  his  own  poem,  or  at  least  the  challenging  of  his 
claim  to  speak  with  final  authority  about  his  own  work.  Once  real- 
ized, the  argument  runs,  a  successful  poem  is  detached;  and  the 
author  no  longer  has  any  property  rights  in  what  now  belongs  to 
the  tradition  rather  than  to  him.  If,  benightedly,  he  protests  against 
some  critical  analysis  or  interpretation  which  seems  to  him  wrong 
on  the  basis  of  his  special  biographical  knowledge,  he  reveals  that 
either  his  poem  is  not  truly  "successful,"  or  even  worse,  that  he 
has  never  read  "Tradition  and  the  Individual  Talent." 

There  are,  in  fact,  two  quite  different  contentions,  one  valid,  one 
invalid,  confused  in  most  statements  about  the  poet  as  commenta- 
tor on  his  own  work.  First  it  is  asserted  (and  with  real  truth)  that 
a  poem  may  contain  more  meanings  than  the  maker  is  ever  aware 
of;  and  second  (this  is  false,  of  course)  that  nothing  the  poet  can 
tell  us  about  his  own  work  is  of  any  decisive  importance,  because 
the  poet  cannot  help  falling  into  the  trap  of  talking  about  his  "in- 
"  tentions."  But  the  notion  of  "intention"  implies  the  belief  that  there 
is  a  somehow  pre-existent  something  against  which  the  achieved 
work  of  art  can  be  measured;  and  although  this  has  been  for  all 
recorded  time  the  point  of  view  of  the  practicing  writer,  every 
graduate  student  who  has  read  Wimsatt  and  Beardsley  on  the 
-Intentional  Fallacy  knows  that  we  are  all  now  to  believe  that  there 
is  no  other  poem  except  the  poem  of  "words." 

The  fact  that  all  recognized  critics  have  consistently  spoken  of 
intention  shows  merely  that  in  the  unfortunate  past  the  writer  about 
literature  has  often  (unfortunately!)  spoken  more  like  the  poet 
than  the  scientific  semanticist.  This  regrettable  looseness  of  expres- 
sion, it  can  only  be  hoped,  will  be  amended  in  the  future,  now  that 
we  have  been  duly  warned.  It  is  difficult  not  to  be  tempted  by 
analogy.  Why,  we  want  to  ask,  can  we  properly  laugh  at  the  visit- 
ing dignitary  in  the  high  hat  when  he  slips  on  the  steps  to  the  plat- 
form, because  of  the  disparity  between  the  entrance  he  intended 


Archetype  and  Signature  459 

and  the  one  he  achieved;  and  still  not  speak  of  a  bathetic  disparity 
between  what  a  poem  obviously  aims  at  and  what  it  does?  On  what 
respectable  grounds  can  it  be  maintained  that  a  poem  is  all  act 
and  no  potentiality? 

It  is  difficult  to  understand  the  success  of  the  antibiographist 
tendency  in  more  respectable  critical  circles  and  in  the  schools, 
in  light  of  its  own  internal  contradictions.  The  explanation  lies, 
I  suppose,  in  its  comparative  newness,  and  in  the  failure  of  its 
opponents  to  arrive  at  any  coherent  theory  of  the  relationship 
between  the  life  of  the  poet  and  his  work;  so  long  as  biographers 
are  content  merely  to  place  side  by  side  undigested  biographical 
data  and  uninspired  paraphrases  of  poems — linking  them  together 
mechanically  or  pseudogenetically:  "Wordsworth  lived  in  the  coun- 
try and  therefore  wrote  Nature  poetry";  or  even  worse,  so  long  as 
notes  proving  that  Milton  was  born  in  one  house  rather  than  an- 
other continue  to  be  printed  in  magazines  devoted  to  the  study  of 
literature,  people  will  be  tempted  into  opposite  though  equal  idio- 
cies, which  have  at  least  not  been  for  so  long  proved  utterly  bank- 
rupt. 

A  recent  phenomenon  of  some  interest  in  this  regard  is  the 
astonishing  popularity  of  such  texts  as  Thomas  and  Brown's  class- 
room anthology  called  Reading  Poems — .  The  very  title  reveals 
the  dogma  behind  the  book;  in  a  world  of  discrete  individual  "expe- 
riences," of  "close-reading"  (a  cant  phrase  of  the  antibiographist) 
as  an  ideal,  one  cannot  even  talk  of  so  large  an  abstraction  as 
poetry.  It  is  only  "poems"  to  which  the  student  must  be  exposed, 
poems  printed  out  of  chronological  order  and  without  the  names  of 
the  authors  attached,  lest  the  young  reader  be  led  astray  by  what 
(necessarily  irrelevant)  information  he  may  have  concerning  the 
biography  or  social  background  of  any  of  the  poets.  It  is  all  some- 
thing of  a  hoax,  of  course;  the  teacher  realizes  that  the  chances 
of  any  student  knowing  too  much  for  his  own  good  about  such  mat- 
ters are  slight  indeed;  and  besides,  there  is  an  index  in  which  the 
names  of  the  poets  are  revealed,  so  that  unless  one  is  very  virtuous, 
he  can  scarcely  help  looking  them  up.  In  addition,  the  good  teacher 
is  himself  aware  to  begin  with  of  the  contexts,  social  and  biographi- 
cal, of  a  large  number  of  the  pieces.  Frankly,  that  is  why  they 


460  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

make  sense  to  him;  and  even  when  he  admonishes  the  young  to 
"stay  inside"  the  poems,  he  is  bootlegging  from  "outside"  all  kinds 
of  rich  relevancies,  which  he  possesses  because  he  is  capable  of 
\  connecting. 

I  cannot  help  feeling  that  the  chief  problem  of  teaching  anything 
in  our  atomized  period  lies  precisely  in  the  fact  that  the  ordinary 
student  cannot  or  will  not  connect  the  few  facts  he  knows,  the 
slim  insights  he  has  previously  attained,  the  chance  extensions 
of  sensibility  into  which  he  has  been  once  or  twice  tempted,  into 
a  large  enough  context  to  make  sense  of  the  world  he  inhabits,  or 
the  works  of  art  he  encounters.  It  is  because  the  old-line  biographist 
fails  to  connect  his  facts  with  the  works  they  presumably  illuminate, 
and  not  because  he  does  connect  them  that  he  is  a  poor  critic.  And 
the  doctrinaire  antibiographist,  like  the  doctrinaire  biographist  be- 
fore him,  secure  in  pride  and  ignorance  of  the  newer  psychologies, 
makes  worse  the  endemic  disease  of  our  era — the  failure  to  con- 
nect. There  is  no  "work  itself,"  no  independent  formal  entity  which 
is  its  own  sole  context;  the  poem  is  the  sum  total  of  many  contexts, 
all  of  which  must  be  known  to  know  it  and  evaluate  it.  "Only  con- 
nect!" should  be  the  motto  of  all  critics  and  teachers — and  the 
connective  link  between  the  poem  on  the  page  and  most  of  its  re- 
warding contexts  is  precisely — biography. 

The  poet's  life  is  the  focusing  glass  through  which  pass  the 
determinants  of  the  shape  of  his  work:  the  tradition  available  to 
him,  his  understanding  of  "kinds,"  the  impact  of  special  experi- 
ences (travel,  love,  etc.).  But  the  poet's  life  is  more  than  a  burning 
glass;  with  his  work,  it  makes  up  his  total  meaning.  I  danot  intend 
to  say,  of  course,  that  some  meanings  of  works  of  art,  satisfactory 
and  as  far  as  they  go  sufficient,  are  not  available  in  the  single  work 
itself  (only  a  really  bad  work  depends  for  all  substantial  meaning 
on  a  knowledge  of  the  life-style  of  its  author) ;  but  a  whole  body 
of  work  will  contain  larger  meanings,  and,  where  it  is  available, 
ta  sense  of  the  life  of  the  writer  will  raise  that  meaning  4o  a  still 
^higher  power.  The  latter  two  kinds  of  meaning  fade  into  each 
other;  for  as  soon  as  two  works  by  a  single  author  are  considered 
side  by  side,  one  has  begun  to  deal  with  biography,  that  is  with 


Archetype  and  Signature  461 

an  interconnectedness,  fully  explicable  only  in  terms  of  a  person- 
ality, inferred  or  discovered. 

One  of  the  essential  functions  of  the  poet  is  the  assertion  and 
creation  of  a  personality,  in  a  profounder  sense  than  any  nonartist 
can  attain.  We  ask  of  the  poet  a  definition  of  man,  at  once  par- 
ticular and  abstract,  stated  and  acted  out.  It  is  impossible  to  draw 
a  line  between  the  work  the  poet  writes  and  the  work  he  lives, 
between  the  life  he  lives,  and  the  life  he  writes.  And  the  agile  critic, 
therefore,  must  be  prepared  to  move  constantly  back  and  forth 
between  life  and  poem,  not  in  a  pointless  circle,  but  in  a  meaning- 
ful spiraling  toward  the  absolute  point. 

To  pursue  this  matter  further,  we  will  have  to  abandon  at  this 
point  the  nominalist  notion  of  the  poem  as  "words"  or  "only 
words."  We  have  the  best  of  excuses;  such  terminology  gets  in  the 
way  of  truth.  We  will  not,  however,  return  to  the  older  notions 
of  the  poem  as  a  "document"  or  the  embodiment  of  an  "idea,"  for 
these  older  views  are,  like  the  "intrinsicist"  position,  inimical  to  the 
concept  of  the  "marvelous";  and  they  have  the  further  difficulty  of 
raising  political  and  moral  criteria  of  "truth"  as  relevant  to  works 
'  of  art.  To  redeem  the  sense  of  what  words  are  all  the  time  pointing 
to  and  what  cannot  be  adequately  explained  by  syntactical  analysis 
or  semantics,  I  shall  speak  of  the  poem  as  Archetype  and  Signa- 
ture, suggesting  that  the  key  to  analysis  is  symbolics;  and  I  shall 
not  forget  that  the  poet's  life  is  also  capable  of  being  analyzed  in 
those  terms.  We  have  been  rather  ridiculously  overemphasizing 
medium  as  a  differentiating  factor;  I  take  it  that  we  can  now  safely 
assume  no  one  will  confuse  a  life  with  a  poem,  and  dwell  on  the 
elements  common  to  the  two,  remembering  that  a  pattern  of  social 
behavior  can  be  quite  as  much  a  symbol  as  a  word,  chanted  or 
spoken  or  printed.  In  deed  as  in  word,  the  poet  composes  himself 
as  maker  and  mask,  in  accordance  with  some  contemporaneous 
mythos  of  the  artist.  And  as  we  all  know,  in  our  day,  it  is  even 
possible  to  be  a  writer  without  having  written  anything!  When  we 
talk  therefore  of  the  importance  of  the  biography  of  the  poet,  we 
do  not  mean  the  importance  of  every  trivial  detail,  but  of  all  that 
goes  into  making  his  particular  life  style,  whether  he  concentrate 


462  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

on  re-creating  himself,  like  Shelley,  in  some  obvious  image  of  the 
Poet,  or,  like  Wallace  Stevens,  in  some  witty  antimask  of  the 
Poet.  Who  could  contend  that  even  the  faces  of  Shelley  and  Stevens 
are  not  typical  products  of  their  quite  different  kinds  of  art! 

The  word  Archetype  is  the  more  familiar  of  my  terms;  I  use  it 
instead  of  the  word  "myth,"  which  I  have  employed  in  the  past  but 
which  becomes  increasingly  ambiguous,  to  mean  any  of  the  im- 
memorial patterns  of  response  to  the  human  situation  in  its  most 
permanent  aspects:  death,  love,  the  biological  family,  the  relation- 
ship with  the  Unknown,  etc.,  whether  those  patterns  be  considered 
to  reside  in  the  Jungian  Collective  Unconscious  or  the  Platonic 
world  of  Ideas.  The  archetypal  belongs  to  the  infra-  or  meta- 
personal,  to  what  Freudians  call  the  Id  or  the  Unconscious;  that  is, 
it  belongs  to  the  Community  at  its  deepest,  preconscious  levels  of 
acceptance. 

I  use  Signature  to  mean  the  sum  total  of  individuating  factors 
in  a  work,  the  sign  of  the  Persona  or  Personality,  through  which 
an  Archetype  is  rendered,  and  which  itself  tends  to  become  a  sub- 
ject as  well  as  a  means  of  the  poem.  Literature,  properly  speaking, 
can  be  said  to  come  into  existence  at  the  moment  a  Signature  is 
imposed  upon  the  Archetype.  The  purely  archetypal,  without  signa- 
ture elements,  is  the  Myth.  Perhaps  a  pair  of  examples  are  in  order 
(with  thanks  to  Mr.  C.  S.  Lewis).  The  story  of  Balder  the  Beautiful 
and  Shakespeare's  Tempest  deal  with  somewhat  similar  arche- 
typal material  of  immersion  and  resurrection;  but  we  recall  the 
Tempest  only  in  all  its  specificity:  the  diction,  meter,  patterns  of 
imagery,  the  heard  voice  of  Shakespeare  (the  Signature  as  Means) ; 
as  well  as  the  scarcely  motivated  speech  on  premarital  chastity,  the 
breaking  of  the  fictional  frame  by  the  unconventional  religious 
plaudite  (the  Signature  as  Subject).  Without  these  elements,  the 
Tempest  is  simply  not  the  Tempest;  but  Balder  can  be  retold  in 
any  diction,  any  style,  just  so  long  as  faith  is  kept  with  the  bare 
^plot — and  it  is  itself,  for  it  is  pure  myth.  Other  examples  are  pro- 
vided by  certain  children's  stories,  retold  and  reillustrated  without 
losing  their  essential  identity,  whether  they  be  "folk"  creations  like 
Cinderella,  or  art  products,  "captured"  by  the  folk  imagination, 
like  Southey's  Three  Bears. 


Archetype  and  Signature  463 

In  our  own  time,  we  have  seen  the  arts  (first  music,  then  paint- 
ing, last  of  all  literature)  attempting  to  become  "pure,"  or  "ab- 
stract," that  is  to  say,  attempting  to  slough  off  all  remnants  of  the 
Archetypal  in  a  drive  toward  becoming  unadulterated  Signature. 
It  should  be  noticed  that  the  theory  of  abstract  art  is  completely 
misleading  in  this  regard,  speaking  as  it  does  about  pure  forms, 
and  mathematics,  and  the  disavowal  of  personality.  The  abstract 
painter,  for  instance,  does  not,  as  he  sometimes  claims,  really 
"paint  paint,"  but  signs  his  name.  So-called  abstract  art  is  the 
ultimate  expression  of  personality;  so  that  the  spectator  says  of  a 
contemporary  painting  not  what  one  would  have  said  in  the  anony- 
mous Middle  Ages,  "There's  a  Tree  of  Jesse  or  a  Crucifixion!"  or 
not  even  what  is  said  of  Renaissance  art,  "There's  a  Michel  Angelo 
Lost  Judgment  or  a  Raphael  Madonna!"  but  quite  simply,  "There's 
a  Mondrian  or  a  Jackson  Pollock!"  Analogously,  in  literature  we 
recognize  a  poem  immediately  as  "a  Marianne  Moore"  or  "an  Ezra 
Pound"  long  before  we  understand,  if  ever,  any  of  its  essential 
meanings. 

The  theory  of  "realism"  or  "naturalism"  denies  both  the  Arche- 
type and  the  Signature,  advocating,  in  its  extreme  forms,  that  art 
merely  "describes  nature  or  reality"  in  a  neutral  style  based  on  the 
case  report  of  the  scientist.  Art  which  really  achieves  such  aims 
becomes,  of  course,  something  less  than  "poetry"  as  I  have  used 
the  term  here,  turning  into  an  "imitation"  in  the  lowest  Platonic 
sense,  "thrice  removed  from  the  truth."  Fortunately,  the  greatest 
^"realists"  consistently  betray  their  principles,  creating  Archetypes 
and  symbols  willy-nilly,  and  setting  them  in  a  Signature  distin- 
guished by  what  James  called  "solidity  of  specification."  The  chief 
value  of  "realism"  as  a  theory  is  that  it  helps  create  in  the  more 
sophisticated  writer  a  kind  of  blessed  stupidity  in  regard  to  what 
he  is  really  doing,  so  that  the  archetypal  material  can  well  up 
into  his  work  uninhibited  by  his  intent;  and  in  a  complementary 
way,  it  makes  acceptance  of  that  archetypal  material  possible  for 
an  audience  which  thinks  of  itself  as  "science-minded"  and  inimi- 

,  cal  to  the  demonic  and  mythic.  It  constantly  startles  and  pleases 
me  to  come  across  references  to  such  creators  of  grotesque  Arche- 

[  types  as  Dostoevsky  and  Dickens  and  Faulkner  as  "realists."     — 


464  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

A  pair  of  caveats  are  necessary,  before  we  proceed.  The  dis- 
tinction between  Archetype  and  Signature,  it  should  be  noted,  does 
not  correspond  to  the  ancient  dichotomy  of  Content  and  Form. 
Such  "forms"  as  the  structures  of  Greek  Tragedy  (cf.  Gilbert 
Murray),  New  Comedy  and  Pastoral  Elegy  are  themselves  versun- 
kene  Archetypes,  capable  of  being  re-realized  in  the  great  work 
of  art.  (Elsewhere  I  have  called  these  "structural  myths.") 

Nor  does  the  present  distinction  cut  quite  the  same  way  as  that 
between  "impersonal"  (or  even  "nonpersonal")  and  "personal." 
-For  the  Signature,  which  is  rooted  in  the  Ego  and  Superego,  be- 
longs, as  the  twofold  Freudian  division  implies,  to  the  social  col- 
lectivity as  well  as  to  the  individual  writer.  The  Signature  is  the 
joint  product  of  "rules"  and  "conventions,"  of  the  expectations  of 
a  community,  and  the  idiosyncratic  responses  of  the  individual 
poet,  who  adds  a  personal  idiom  or  voice  to  a  received  style.  The 
-difference  between  the  communal  element  in  the  Signature  and 
that  in  the  Archetype  is  that  the  former  is  conscious,  that  is,  asso- 
ciated with  the  Superego  rather  than  the  Id.  The  relevant,  arche- 
typal metaphor  for  this  situation  would  make  the  personal  element 
the  Son,  the  conscious-communal  the  Father,  and  the  unconscious- 
communal  the  Mother  (or  the  Sister,  an  image  which  occurs  often 
as  a  symbolic  euphemism  for  the  Mother) — in  the  biological 
Trinity. 

It  is  not  irrelevant  that  the  Romantic  Movement,  which  com- 
bined a  deliberate  return  to  the  Archetypal  with  a  contempt  for  the 
conscious-communal  elements  in  the  Signature,  made  one  of  the 
leitmotifs  of  the  lives  of  its  poets,  as  well  as  of  their  poems,  the 
flight  of  the  Sister  from  the  threat  of  rape  by  the  Father  (Shelley's 
Cenci,  for  instance)  and  the  complementary  desperate  love  of 
Brother  and  Sister  (anywhere  from  Chauteaubriand  and  Words- 
worth to  Byron  and  Melville). 

Even  the  most  orthodox  antibiographist  is  prepared  to  grant  the 
importance  of  biographical  information  in  the  understanding  of 
certain  Ego  elements  in  the  Signature — this  is  what  the  intrinsicist 
calls  the  study  of  an  author's  "idiosyncratic  use  of  words."  But  he 
would  deny  vehemently  the  possibility  of  using  biographical  ma- 
terial for  the  purposes  of  evaluation.  Let  us  consider  some  exam- 


Archetype  and  Signature  465 

pies.  For  instance,  the  line  in  one  of  John  Donne's  poems,  "A 
Hymne  to  God  the  Father,"  which  runs,  "When  thou  hast  done, 
thou  hast  not  done  ..."  would  be  incomprehensible  in  such  a  col- 
lection without  author's  names  as  the  Thomas  and  Brown  Reading 
Poems.  Without  the  minimum  biographical  datum  of  the  name  of 
the  poet,  the  reader  could  not  realize  that  a  pun  was  involved, 
and  consequently  could  not  even  ask  himself  the  evaluative  ques- 
tion most  important  to  the  poem,  namely,  what  is  the  value  of 
the  pun  in  a  serious,  even  a  religious,  piece  of  verse?  This  is  the 
simplest  use  of  biography,  referring  us  for  only  an  instant  outside 

>of  the  poem,  and  letting  us  remain  within  it,  once  we  have  returned 
with  the  information.  Similar  examples  are  plentiful  in  Shake- 
speare's sonnets :  the  references  to  his  own  first  name,  for  instance, 
or  the  troublesome  phrase  "all  hewes  in  his  controlling." 

A  second  example  which  looks  much  like  the  first  at  a  super- 
ficial glance,  but  which  opens  up  in  quite  a  different  way,  would 
be  the  verse  "they' are  but  Mummy  possest,"  from  Donne's  "Love's 
Alchemie."  Let  us  consider  whether  we  can  sustain  the  contention 
that  there  is  a  pun  on  Mummy,  whether  deliberately  planned  or 
unconsciously  fallen  into.  Can  we  read  the  line  as  having  the  two 
meanings:  women,  so  fair  in  the  desiring,  turn  out  to  be  only 
dried-out  corpses  after  the  having;  and  women,  once  possessed, 
turn  out  to  be  substitutes  for  the  Mother,  who  is  the  real  end  of 
our  desiring?  An  analysis  of  the  mere  word  does  not  take  us  very 
far;  we  discover  that  the  lallwort  "mummy"  meaning  mother  is  not 
recorded  until  1830  in  that  precise  spelling,  but  that  there  are 
attested  uses  of  it  in  the  form  "mammy"  (we  remember,  perhaps, 
that  "mammy-apple"  and  "mummy-apple"  are  interchangeable 
forms  meaning  papaya)  well  back  into  Donne's  period,  and  the 
related  form  mome  goes  back  into  Middle  English.  Inevitably,  such 
evidence  is  inconclusive,  establishing  possibilities  at  best,  and  never 
really  bearing  on  the  question  of  probability,  for  which  we  must 
turn  to  life  itself,  to  Donne's  actual  relations  with  his  mother;  and 

■»  beyond  that  to  the  science  of  such  relationships. 

When  we  have  discovered  that  John  Donne  did,  indeed,  live 
in  an  especially  intimate  relationship  with  his  mother  throughout 
her  long  life  (she  actually  outlived  her  son);  and  when  we  have 


466  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

i  set  the  possible  pun  in  a  context  of  other  literary  uses  of  a  mythic 
situation  in  which  the  long-desired  possessed  turns  at  the  moment 

i  of  possession  into  a  shriveled  hag  who  is  also  a  mother  (Rider 
Haggard's  She,  Hilton's  Lost  Horizon,  and,  most  explicitly,  Flau- 
bert's Education  Sentimentale) ,  we  realize  that  our  original  conten- 
tion is  highly  probable,  that  the  pun  embodies  a  traditional  version 
of  what  the  psychologists  have  taught  us  to  call  the  Oedipus  Arche- 
type. It  should  be  noticed  in  passing,  that  the  archetypal  critic 
is  delivered  from  the  bondage  of  time,  speaking  of  "confluences" 
rather  than  "influences,"  and  finding  the  explication  of  a  given 
work  in  things  written  later  as  well  as  earlier  than  the  original 
piece.  Following  the  lead  opened  up  by  "Mummy  possest,"  we  can 
move  still  further  toward  an  understanding  of  Donne,  continuing  to 
shuttle  between  life  and  work  with  our  new  clue,  and  examining, 
for  instance,  Donne's  ambivalent  relations  to  the  greater  Mother, 

f  the  Roman  Church,  which  his  actual  mother  represented  not  only 
metaphorically,  but  in  her  own  allegiance  and  descent.  This  sort 
of  analysis  which  at  once  unifies  and  opens  up  (one  could  do 
something  equally  provocative  and  rich,  for  instance,  with  the  fact 
that  in  two  of  Melville's  tales,  ships  symbolic  of  innocence  are 
called  The  Jolly  Bachelor  and  The  Bachelor's  Delight)  is  con- 
demned in  some  quarters  as  "failing  to  stay  close  to  the  actual 
meaning  of  the  work  itself" — as  if  the  work  were  a  penny  peep 
show  to  which  one  must  screw  his  eye,  instead  of  a  focus  opening 

\  on  an  inexhaustible  totality. 

The  "intrinsicist"  is  completely  unnerved  by  any  reference  to 
the  role  of  the  Archetype  in  literature,  fearing  such  references  as 
strategies  to  restore  the  criterion  of  the  "marvelous"  to  respectable 
currency  as  a  standard  of  literary  excellence;  for  not  only  is  the 
notion  of  the  "marvelous"  prescientific,  but  it  is  annoyingly  im- 
mune to  "close  analysis."  Certainly,  the  contemplation  of  the 
Archetype  pushes  the  critic  beyond  semantics,  and  beyond  the  kind 
of  analysis  that  considers  it  has  done  all  when  it  assures  us  (once 
again!)  that  the  parts  and  whole  of  a  poem  cohere.  The  critic  in 

I  pursuit  of  the  archetype  finds  himself  involved  in  anthropology  and 
depth  psychology  (not  because  these  are  New  Gospels,  but  because 
they  provide  useful  tools) ;  and  if  he  is  not  too  embarrassed  in  such 


Archetype  and  Signature  467 

company  to  look  about  him,  he  discovers  that  he  has  come  upon  a 
way  of  binding  together  our  fractured  world,  of  uniting  literature 
and  nonliterature  without  the  reduction  of  the  poem. 

It  is  sometimes  objected  that  though  the  archetypal  critic  can 
move  convincingly  between  worlds  ordinarily  cut  off  from  each 
other,  he  sacrifices  for  this  privilege  the  ability  to  distinguish  the 
essential  qualities  of  literary  works,  and  especially  that  of  evaluat- 
ing them.  Far  from  being  irrelevant  to  evaluation,  the  consideration 
of  the  archetypal  content  of  works  of  art  is  essential  to  it!  One 
of  the  earlier  critics  of  Dante  says  somewhere  that  poetry,  as  dis- 
tinguished from  rhetoric  (which  treats  of  the  credible  as  credible), 
treats  of  the  "marvelous"  as  credible.  Much  contemporary  criti- 
cism has  cut  itself  off  from  this  insight,  that  is,  from  the  realization 
of  what  poetry  on  its  deepest  levels  is.  It  is  just  as  ridiculous  to 
attempt  the  evaluation  of  a  work  of  art  in  purely  formal  terms 
(considering  only  the  Signature  as  Means),  as  it  would  be  to 
evaluate  it  purely  in  terms  of  the  "marvelous,"  or  the  Archetypal. 
The  question,  for  instance,  of  whether  Mona  Lisa  is  just  a  bour- 
geoise  or  whether  she  "as  Leda,  was  the  Mother  of  Helen  of  Troy, 
and,  as  St.  Anne,  was  the  mother  of  Mary''  is  just  as  vital  to  a 
final  estimate  of  the  picture's  worth  as  any  matter  of  control  of  the 
medium  or  handling  of  light  and  shadow. 

The  Romantics  seem  to  have  realized  this,  and  to  have  reached 
in  their  distinction  between  Fancy  and  Imagination  for  rubrics  to 
distinguish  between  the  poetic  method  that  touches  the  Archetypal 
deeply  and  that  which  merely  skirts  it.  Even  the  Arnoldian  de- 
scription of  Pope  as  "a  classic  of  our  prose,"  right  or  wrong,  was 
feeling  toward  a  similar  standard  of  discrimination.  It  is  typical  and 
ironic,  that  Arnold  in  a  moralizing  age  should  have  felt  obliged 
to  call  the  demonic  power  of  evoking  the  Archetype  "High  Serious- 
ness." Certainly,  the  complete  abandonment  of  any  such  criterion 
by  the  intrinsicist  leaves  him  baffled  before  certain  sttongjnyth- 
opoeic  talents  like  Dickens  or  Stevenson;  and  it  is  the  same  lack 
in  his  system  which  prevents  his  understanding  of  the  complemen- 
tary relationship  of  the  life  and  work  of  the  poet. 


468  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 


The  Archetype  which  makes  literature  itself  possible  in  the  first 
instance  is  the  Archetype  of  the  Poet.  At  the  moment  when  myth  is 
uncertainly  becoming  literature,  that  is,  reaching  tentatively  toward 
a  Signature,  the  poet  is  conceived  of  passively,  as  a  mere  vehicle.  It 
is  the  Muse  who  is  mythically  bodied  forth,  the  unconscious  collec- 
|  tive  source  of  the  Archetypes,  imagined  as  more  than  human,  and, 
'  of  course,  female.  The  Poet  is  still  conceived  more  as  Persona  than 
Personality;  the  few  characteristics  with  which  he  is  endowed  are 
borrowed  from  the  prophet:  he  is  a  blind  old  man,  impotent  in  his 
own  right.  That  blindness  (impotence  as  power,  what  Keats  much 
later  would  call  "negative  capability")  is  the  earliest  version  of  the 
blessing-curse,  without  which  the  popular  mind  cannot  conceive  of 
the  poet.  His  flaw  is,  in  the  early  stages,  at  once  the  result  and  the 
precondition  of  his  submitting  himself  to  the  dark  powers  of  in- 
spiration for  the  sake  of  the  whole  people. 

But  very  soon,  the  poet  begins  to  assume  a  more  individualized 
life-style,  the  lived  Signature  imposed  on  the  Archetype,  and  we 
have  no  longer  the  featureless  poet  born  in  seven  cities,  his  face  a 
Mask  through  which  a  voice  not  his  is  heard,  but  Aeschylus,  the 
Athenian  citizen-poet;  Sophocles,  the  spoiled  darling  of  fate;  or 
Euripides,  the  crowd-contemner  in  his  Grotto.  The  mass-mind, 
dimly  resentful  as  the  Vates  becomes  Poeta,  the  Seer  a  Maker,  the 
Persona  a  Personality,  composes  a  new  Archetype,  an  image  to 
punish  the  poet  for  detaching  himself  from  the  collective  Id — and 
the  Poet,  amused  and  baffled,  accepts  and  elaborates  the  new  im- 
age. The  legend  asserts  that  Euripides  (the  first  completely  self- 
conscious  alienated  artist?)  died  torn  to  pieces  by  dogs,  or  even 
more  to  the  point,  by  women.  And  behind  the  late  personalized 
application  looms  the  more  ancient  mythos  of  the  ritually  dis- 
membered Orpheus,  ripped  by  the  Maenads  when  he  had  with- 
drawn for  lonely  contemplation.  The  older  myth  suggests  that  a 
sacrifice  is  involved  as  well  as  a  punishment — the  casting  out  and 
rending  of  the  poet  being  reinterpreted  as  a  death  suffered  for  the 
group,  by  one  who  has  dared  make  the  first  forays  out  of  collec- 


Archetype  and  Signature  469 

tivity  toward  personality,  and  has  endured  the  consequent  revenge 
of  the  group  as  devotees  of  the  unconscious. 

In  light  of  this,  it  is  no  longer  possible  to  think  of  the  poete** 
maudit  as  an  unfortunate  invention  of  the  Romantics,  or  of  the 
Alienated  Artist  as  a  by-product  of  mass  communications.  These 
are  reinventions,  as^fiur  archetypal  history  repeats  itself  under  the 
influence  of  the  breakdown  of  Christianity.  Our  newer  names  name 
only  recent  exacerbations  of  a  situation  as  old  as  literature  itself, 
-  which  in  turn  is  coeval  with  the  rise  of  personality.  Only  the  con- 
ventional stigmata  of  the  poet  as  Scape-Hero  have  changed  with 
time:  the  Blind  Man  becomes  the  disreputable  Player,  the  Atheist, 
the  Incestuous  lover,  the  Homosexual,  or  (especially  in  America) 
the  Drunkard;  though,  indeed,  none  of  the  older  versions  ever  die, 
even  the  Yiomei-typus  reasserting  itself  in  Milton  and  James  Joyce.— 
Perhaps  in  recent  times,  the  poet  has  come  to  collaborate  somewhat 
more  enthusiastically  in  his  own  defamation  and  destruction, 
whether  by  drowning  or  tuberculosis  or  dissipation — or  by  a  token 
suicide  in  the  work  (cf.  Werther).  And  he  helps  ever  more  con- 
sciously to  compose  himself  and  his  fellow  poets — Byron,  for  in- 
stance, the  poet  par  excellence  of  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  be- 
ing the  joint  product  of  Byron  and  Goethe — and,  though  most 
of  us  forget,  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe!  Some  dramatic  version  of 
the  poet  seems  necessary  to  every  age  and  the  people  do  not  care 
whether  the  poet  creates  himself  in  his  life  or  work  or  both.  One 
thinks  right  now  of  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald,  of  course,  our  popular 
image  of  the  artist. 

The  critic,  on  the  other  hand,  is  likely  to  become  impatient  with 
the  lay  indifference  to  the  poetizing  of  life,  and  the  "biographiz- 
ing" of  poetry;  for  he  proceeds  on  the  false  assumption  that  the 
poet's  life  is  primarily  "given"  and  only  illegitimately  "made,"  while 
his  work  is  essentially  "made"  and  scarcely  "given"  at  all.  This 
is  the  source  of  endless  confusion. 

In  perhaps  the  greatest  periods  of  world  literature,  the  "given" 
element  in  poetry  is  made  clear  by  the  custom  of  supplying,  or 
more  precisely,  of  imposing  on  the  poet  certain  traditional  bodies 
of  story.  The  poet  in  such  periods  can  think  of  himself  only  as 
"working  with"  materials  belonging  to  the  whole  community, 


470  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

emending  by  a  dozen  or  sixteen  the  inherited  plot.  Greek  myths, 
the  fairy  tales  and  novelle  of  the  Elizabethans,  the  Christian  body 
of  legend  available  to  Dante,  are  examples  of  such  material.  (In 
our  world  a  traditionally  restricted  body  of  story  is  found  only  in 
sub-art:  the  pulp  Western,  or  the  movie  Horse  opera.)  In  such 
situations,  Archetype  and  "story"  are  synonymous;  one  remembers 
that  for  Aristotle,  mythos  was  the  word  for  "plot,"  and  plot  was, 
he  insisted,  the  most  important  element  in  tragedy.  That  Aristotle 
makes  his  assertions  on  rationalistic  grounds,  with  no  apparent 
awareness  of  the  importance  of  the  Archetype  as  such,  does  not 
matter;  it  does  not  even  matter  whether  the  poet  himself  is  aware 
of  the  implications  of  his  material.  As  long  as  he  works  with  such 
an  inherited  gift,  he  can  provide  the  ritual  satisfaction  necessary 
to  great  art  without  self-consciousness. 

A  Shakespeare,  a  Dante,  or  a  Sophocles,  coming  at  a  moment 
when  the  Archetypes  of  a  period  are  still  understood  as  "given," 
and  yet  are  not  considered  too  "sacred"  for  rendering  through  the 
individual  Signature,  possess  immense  initial  advantages  over  the 
poet  who  comes  earlier  or  later  in  the  process.  But  the  great  poet 
is  not  simply  the  mechanical  result  of  such  an  occasion;  he  must 
be  able  to  rise  to  it,  to  be  capable  (like  Shakespeare)  of  at  once 
realizing  utterly  the  archetypal  implications  of  his  material,  and  of 
formally  embodying  it  in  a  lucid  and  unmistakable  Signature.  But 
the  balance  is  delicate  and  incapable  of  being  long  maintained. 
The  brief  history  of  Athenian  tragedy  provides  the  classic  instance. 
After  the  successes  of  Sophocles  come  the  attempts  of  Euripides; 
and  in  Euripides  one  begins  to  feel  the  encounter  of  Signature  and 
Archetype  as  a  conflict — the  poet  and  the  collectivity  have  begun 
to  lose  touch  with  each  other  and  with  their  common  preconscious 
■  sources  of  value  and  behavior.  Euripides  seems  to  feel  his  in- 
herited material  as  a  burden,  tucking  it  away  in  prologue  and 
epilogue,  so  that  he  can  get  on  with  his  proper  business — the 
imitation  of  particulars.  The  poem  begins  to  come  apart;  the  acute 
critic  finds  it,  however  "tragic,"  sloppy,  technically  inept;  and  the 
audience  raises  the  familiar  cry  of  "incomprehensible  and  blas- 
phemous!" Even  the  poet  himself  begins  to  distrust  his  own  im- 


Archetype  and  Signature  471 

pulses,  and  writes,  as  Euripides  did  in  his  Bacchae,  a  mythic 
criticism  of  his  own  sacrilege. 

After  the  Euripidean  crisis,  the  Archetypes  survive  only  in  fallen 
form:  as  inherited  and  scarcely  understood  structures  (the  seeds 
of  the  genres  which  are  structural  Archetypes  become  structural 
platitudes);  as  type  characters,  less  complex  than  the  masks  that 
indicate  them;  as  "popular"  stock  plots.  The  "Happy  Ending" 
arises  as  a  kind  of  ersatz  of  the  true  reconciliation  of  society  and 
individual  in  Sophoclean  tragedy;  and  the  audience  which  can 
no  longer  find  essential  reassurance  in  its  poetry  that  the  Superego 
and  the  Id  can  live  at  peace  with  each  other,  content  themselves 
with  the  demonstration  that  at  least  Jack  has  his  Jill,  despite  the 
comic  opposition  of  the  Old  Man.  Still  later,  even  the  tension  of 
Euripidean  tragedy  and  New  Comedy  is  lost,  and  the  Archetype 
comes  to  be  disregarded  completely;  poetry  becomes  either  utterly 
"realistic,"  rendering  the  struggle  between  Ego  and  Superego  in 
terms  of  the  imitation  of  particulars;  or  it  strives  to  be  "pure"  in 
the  contemporary  sense,  that  is,  to  make  the  Signature  its  sole 
subject  as  well  as  its  means. 

Can  the  Archetype  be  redeemed  after  such  a  fall?  There  are 
various  possibilities  (short  of  the  emergence  of  a  new  ordered 
myth  system) :  the  writer  can,  like  Graham  Greene  or  Robert  Penn 
Warren,  capture  for  serious  purposes — that  is,  re-render  through 
complex  and  subtle  Signatures — debased  "popular"  Archetypes; 
the  thriller,  the  detective  story,  the  western  or  science  fiction;  or 
the  poet  can  ironically  manipulate  the  shreds  and  patches  of  out- 
< lived  mythologies,  fragments  shored  against  our  ruins.  Eliot,  Joyce, 
Ezra  PoundranoTThomas  Mann  have  all  made  attempts  of  the 
latter  sort,  writing  finally  not  archetypal  poetry,  but  poetry  about 
archetypes,  in  which  plot  (anciently  mythos  itself)  founders  under 
the  burden  of  overt  explication,  or  disappears  completely.  Or  the 
poet  can,  like  Blake  or  Yeats  or  Hart  Crane,  invent  a  private  myth 
system  of  his  own.  Neither  of  the  last  two  expedients  can  reach 
the  popular  audience,  which  prefers  its  archetypes  rendered  with- 
out self-consciousness  of  so  intrusive  a  sort. 

A  final  way  back  into  the  world  of  the  Archetypes,  available 


472  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

even  in  our  atomized  culture,  is  an  extension  of  the  way  instinc- 
tively sought  by  the  Romantics,  down  through  the  personality  of 
L  the  poet,  past  his  particular  foibles  and  eccentricities,  to  his  un- 
^  conscious  core,  where  he  becomes  one  with  us  all  in  the  presence 
of  our  ancient  Gods,  the  protagonists  of  fables  we  think  we  no 
longer  believe.  In  fantasy  and  terror,  we  can  return  to  our  com- 
mon source.  It  is  a  process  to  delight  a  Hegelian,  the  triple  swing 
from  a  naive  communal  to  the  personal  to  a  sophisticated  com- 
munal. 

We  must  be  aware  of  the  differences  between  the  thesis  and 
synthesis  of  our  series.  What  cannot  be  recreated  as  Plot  becomes 
reborn  as  Character — ultimately  the  character  of  the  poet  (what 
else  is  available  to  him?),  whether  directly  or  in  projection.  In 
*•  the  Mask  of  his  life  and  the  manifold  masks  of  his  work,  the  poet 
expresses  for  a  whole  society  the  ritual  meaning  of  its  inarticulate 
selves;  the  artist  goes  forth  not  to  "re-create  the  conscience  of  his 
-»race,"  but  to  redeem  its  unconscious.  We  cannot  get  back  into 
the  primal  Garden  of  the  unfallen  Archetypes,  but  we  can  yield 
ourselves  to  the  dreams  and  images  that  mean  paradise  regained. 
For  the  critic  who  cannot  only  yield,  but  must  also  understand, 
there  are  available  new  methods  of  exploration.  To  understand  the 
Archetypes  of  Athenian  drama,  he  needs  (above  and  beyond  se- 
mantics) anthropology;  to  understand  those  of  recent  poetry,  he 
needs  (beyond  "close  analysis")  depth  analysis,  as  defined  by 
Freud  and,  particularly,  by  Jung. 

The  biographical  approach,  tempered  by  such  findings,  is  just 
now  coming  into  its  own.  We  are  achieving  new  ways  of  connect- 
ing (or  more  precisely,  of  understanding  a  connection  which  has 
always  existed)  the  Poet  and  the  poem,  the  lived  and  the  made, 
the  Signature  and  the  Archetype.  It  is  in  the  focus  of  the  poetic 
personality  that  Dichtung  and  Wahreit  become  one;  and  it  is  in- 
cumbent upon  us,  without  surrendering  our  right  to  make  useful 
distinctions,  to  seize  the  principle  of  that  unity.  "Only  connect!" 


Stanley  Edgar  Hyman 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism 


It  is  Maud  Bodkin's  distinction  to  have  made 
what  is  probably  the  best  use  to  date  of  psychoanalysis  in  literary 
criticism.  Her  book  Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry,  subtitled  Psy- 
chological Studies  of  Imagination,  was  published  by  Oxford  in 
England  in  1934  and  attracted  almost  no  attention  whatsoever.  It 
was  reviewed  in  a  handful  of  periodicals,  getting  what  enthusiastic 
comment  it  got  in  magazines  devoted  to  folklore  and  psychology 
and  receiving  rather  condescending  treatment  from  the  general  lit- 
erary press.  It  has  had  no  appreciable  influence  on  any  English 
criticism  I  have  encountered  (although  Knight,  Day  Lewis,  and 
Auden  have  acknowledged  it,  and  Leavis  has  attacked  it  in  Scru- 
tiny), In  this  country  Miss  Bodkin  is  even  less  known.  She  has 
never,  to  my  knowledge,  been  reviewed  or  discussed  in  an  Ameri- 
can periodical.  (Again,  a  few  critics,  among  them  Burke  and  War- 
ren, have  managed  to  discover  and  utilize  her  work.)  She  is  not 
listed  in  any  American  or  British  work  of  reference  I  have  ever 
managed  to  find  in  a  library,  including  Who's  Who,  and  she  seems 
never  to  have  published  in  any  periodical  other  than  Mind  and 
the  British  Journal  of  Psychology  (and,  if  she  is  the  A.  M.  Bodkin 

473 


474  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

she  cites  in  a  footnote,  the  British  Journal  of  Medical  Psychology) 
until  the  war,  when  she  contributed  one  essay  to  the  Wind  and  the 
Rain,  a  new  English  review  with  a  religious  and  moral  emphasis. 

There  are  a  number  of  reasons  for  this  obscurity.  First,  Miss 
Bodkin  is  not  a  professional  psychoanalyst,  which  would  have  lent 
her  work  professional  authority,  nor  does  she  seem  to  be  a  pro- 
fessional critic.  She  is  apparently  an  amateur  student  of  literature 
(at  one  time  she  was  a  publisher's  reader)  who  happens  to  have 
a  wide  acquaintance  with  both  psychology  and  imaginative  litera- 
ture, as  well  as  genuine  literary  sensitivity,  sense  of  proportion, 
and  taste  that  effectively  keep  her  from  all  the  familiar  excesses  of 
psychoanalytic  criticism.  As  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  learn,  Miss 
Bodkin  became  interested  in  the  literary  possibilities  of  psycho- 
analysis in  middle  age,  and  attended  a  group  of  seminars  for  lay 
students  held  by  Dr.  Carl  G.  Jung  in  Zurich  in  the  twenties  on 
his  analytical  psychology  and  some  of  its  implications.  Her  work 
is  chiefly  dependent  on  Jungian  theories  and  insights,  although  it  is 
obviously  her  own,  and  it  is  unlikely  that  Dr.  Jung  is  familiar  with 
it  and  questionable  whether  he  would  approve  of  it  if  he  were. 

I  am  not  competent  to  discuss  the  ideas  of  Dr.  Jung  (or  any 
psychologist)  technically,  but  a  brief  summary  of  those  which  ap- 
ply to  art  is  essential  for  any  consideration  of  Miss  Bodkin's  work. 
The  most  important  of  them  from  a  literary  viewpoint  is  the  con- 
cept of  "archetypes."  Jung  defines  these  most  fully  in  the  article 
"On  the  Relation  of  Analytical  Psychology  to  Poetic  Art"  in  Con- 
tributions to  Analytical  Psychology.  They  are  unconscious  pri- 
mordial  images,  the  "psychic  residua  of  numberless  experiences  of 
the  same  type"  shared  by  ancestors  going  back  to  primitive  times, 
which  are  somehow  inherited  in  the  structure  of  the  brain.  They 
are~th~usT)asic7  age-old  patterns  of  central  human  experience,  and 
Jung's  hypothesis,  which  Miss  Bodkin  devoted  her  book  to  inves- 
tigating, is  that  these  archetypes  lie  at  the  root  of  any  poetry  (or 
any  other  art)  possessing  special  emotional  significance. 

For  Jung,  these  archetypal  patterns  exist  all  along  the  chain  of 
communication:  as  configurations  in  the  poet's  unconscious,  as 
recurring  themes  or  image  sequences  in  poetry,  and  as  configura- 
tions in  the  reader's  or  audience's  unconscious.  This  is  based  on 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  475 

the  concept  of  a  "collective  unconscious"  bearing  the  racial  past, 
which  generated  mythic  heroes  for  the  primitive  and  still  generates 
similar  individual  fantasies  for  the  civilized  man,  and  which  finds 
its  chief  expression  in  a  relatively  famUiar^ndjimeless  symholism, 
endlessly  recurring.  (It  should  be  obvious  how  close  this  idea  is 
t6~cyclic  theories  of  history  like  Vico's,  as  well  as  to  Stekel's  modi- 
fication of  Freud's  free  and  experiential  dream  symbolism  in  favor 
of  a  fixed,  gypsy-dream-book  symbolism,  and  how  captivating  it 
would  be  to  a  writer  like  Joyce,  already  influenced  by  Vico,  seeking 
a  psychology  he  could  use  in  creating  H.  C.  Everybody.) 

For  Jung,  the  artist  as  well  as  the  neurotic  reproduces  in  detail  i 
the  myths  derived  from  the  ritual  experience  of  primitive  man,  , 
sometimes  consciously,  sometimes  by  a  "visionary"  process.  The 
artist,  however,  is  not  a  neurotic;  is,  in  fact,  as  artist,  of  far  greater 
significance  than  the  neurotic.  In  his  article  "Psychology  and 
Poetry"  in  transition,  Jung  dignifies  the  poet  as  "the  collective  man, 
the  carrier  and  former  of  the  unconsciously  active  soul  of  man- 
kind." With  this  goes  the  idea  that  in  the  last  analysis  art  is  an 
autonomous  complex  of  whose  origin  we  know  nothing,  an  expres- 
sion baffling  the  ingenuity  of  science,  and  that  all  psychoanalysis 
can  do  is  study  the  antecedent  materials  and  describe  the  creative 
process  without  explaining  it.1 

Jung's  other  concepts — his  primary  quarrel  with  Freud  over 
"libido,"  which  he  defines  as  "psychic  instinctive  energy  in  gen- 
eral," a  kind  of  Bergsonian  elan  vital,  rather  than  simply  "sexual 
energy";  his  basic  personality  types,  introvert  and  extravert,  the 
results  of  inward  and  outward  turning  of  the  libido;  and  his  other 
terms  like  "anima,"  the  ideal  or  soul-image,  and  "persona,"  the 
complementary  outer  character — are  of  less  significance  in  Miss 
Bodkin's  work  and  to  literary  criticism  in  general.  For  literary  anal- 
ysis, as  she  recognized,  the  basic  concepts  are  the  collective  uncon- 
scious and  its  archetypal  patterns. 

In  a  number  of  respects  Jung's  analytical  psychology  might  seem 
to  be  more  fruitful  for  literary  criticism  than  Freudian  psycho- 
analysis. Miss  Bodkin  has  expressed  two  of  its  advantages  as  she 
sees  them: 


476  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Freud's  terminology  cannot  do  justice  to  it  (the  interaction 
between  the  individual  mind  and  the  social  heritage  in  a  poem) 
because  the  postulates  within  which  he  works  require  that  later 
and  higher  products  of  the  life  process  be  explained  in  terms  of 
elements  present  in  the  beginning.  Also,  the  concentration  of 
Freudian  writers  upon  the  physical  relation  of  parent  and  child 
cuts  off  that  other  equally  valid  viewpoint,  from  which  the  par- 
ent's magic  for  the  child,  and  overpowering  influence,  appear  due 
to  his  acting  as  the  first  channel  of  the  wider  influence  of  the 
community  and  its  stored  achievement. 

The  major  advantage  over  Freud,  however,  that  Jungian  psychol- 
ogy has  in  terms  of  literary  criticism  is  that,  unlike  Jung,  Freud 
did  at  one  time  tend  to  see  art  largely  as  a  neurotic  expression, 
specifically  the  product  of  a  narcissistic  stage  of  development,  a 
fantasy  wish-fulfillment  or  substitute  gratification  resulting  from 
unsatisfied  longings  in  the  real  world.  He  writes  typically  in  Civili- 
zation and  Its  Discontents  of  "beauty":  "Its  derivation  from  the 
realms  of  sexual  sensation  is  all  that  seems  certain;  the  love  of 
beauty  is  a  perfect  example  of  a  feeling  with  an  inhibited  aim," 
which  is  not  mitigated  by  the  admission  that  psychoanalysis  "has 
less  to  say  about  beauty  than  about  most  other  things." 

Nevertheless,  it  is  Freud,  rather  than  any  of  his  dissenting  dis- 
ciples, who  has  tremendously  influenced  almost  every  modern 
writer  and  critic.  Adler  has  had  relatively  little  literary  influence, 
aside  from  the  ubiquitous  term  "inferiority  complex"  (although  it 
should  be  admitted  that  almost  every  contemporary  novel  that  has 
been  concerned  with  ego  or  power  drives  or  compensations,  from 
The  Great  Gatsby  to  What  Makes  Sammy  Run  has  unwittingly 
absorbed  something  of  Adler's  individual  psychology).2  Outside 
of  Zurich,  where  Joyce  came  somewhat  under  Jung's  influence, 
even  Jung  has  had  few  literary  followers,  chiefly  Eugene  Jolas 
and  the  transition  crowd  in  Paris  for  a  brief  period,  and  a  group 
of  Socialist  poets  and  critics  around  James  Oppenheim  in  this 
country.3  Stekel,  Rank,  and  the  other  Freudian  dissenters  have 
been  even  less  important  outside  their  own  fields. 

The  collective  and  affirmative  nature  of  Jung's  psychology  is  its 
greatest  advantage  for  literary  criticism,  but  it  also  constitutes  its 
greatest  danger,  a  tendency  to  turn  into  a  glorification  of  irrational- 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  477 

ity,  mysticism,  and  "racial  memory,"  the  sort  of  thing  that  made 
^"Jung  so  attractive  to  Nazi  and  Fascist  thinkers.  Miss  Bodkin  has 
largely  avoided  this  pitfall  in  Jung's  thoughts,  but  at  least  once  in 
the  book  she  calls  for  the  continual  endeavor  to  render  underlying 
psychological  patterns  "in  terms  of  feeling  rather  than  intellect" 
with  the  same  ambiguous  possibility  of  glorifying  irrationality  that 
has  endeared  Jung  to  the  blood-and-soil  contingent.  For  the  most 
part,  though,  she  uses  the  scientific-analytic  aspects  of  Jung's  work 
rather  than  the  metaphysical-mystic,  and  it  is  significant  that  her 
epigraph  for  Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry  should  be  Jung  at  his 
least  world-shaking  and  most  honestly  humble: 

Philosophical  criticism  has  helped  me  to  see  that  every  psy- 
chology— my  own  included — has  the  character  of  a  subjective 
confession  ...  it  is  only  by  accepting  this  as  inevitable  that  I 
can  serve  the  cause  of  man's  knowledge  of  man. 


Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry  is  one  of  the  few  books  that  per- 
forms precisely  the  action  its  title  denotes;  it  discusses  archetypal 
patterns  in  poetry.  The  book  consists  of  six  chapters,  the  first 
raising  the  general  problem  of  archetypes  as  illustrated  by  tragic 
drama,  and  discussing  Ernest  Jones's  exploration  of  the  Oedipus 
complex  in  Hamlet;  the  other  five  dealing  respectively  with  the  re- 
birth archetype  in  The  Ancient  Mariner;  the  heaven-hell  archetype 
in  Coleridge,  Milton,  and  Dante;  some  archetypal  women  in  poetry; 
the  archetypal  devil,  hero,  and  god;  and  some  archetypes  in  con- 
temporary literature.  Methodologically  her  work  divides  into  two 
sorts:  the  detailed  exploration  of  an  archetype  in  a  single  work, 
like  rebirth  in  The  Ancient  Mariner;  and  the  comparison  of  vari- 
ants of  an  archetype  in  a  number  of  works,  like  the  chapter  on  the 
archetypal  women  of  great  poets.  Both  methods  warrant  examina- 
tion. 

In  The  Ancient  Mariner  Miss  Bodkin  begins  by  noting  the  pas- 
sages describing  the  becalming  of  the  ship  and  its  later  miraculous 
motion  and  finds  that  they  introduce  the  problem  of  death  and 


478  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

rebirth  in  a  specific  symbolization  of  Coleridge's  experience  of 
futile  mental  effort  followed  by  a  sudden  creative  inspiration.  For 
this  reading  she  relies,  first  on  her  own  associations  and  memories 
inspired  by  the  lines,  then  on  available  records  of  Coleridge's  pri- 
vate associations,  and  finally  on  the  general  relationship,  illustrated 
by  Biblical  quotations,  between  the  rising  of  the  wind  and  the 
quickening  of  the  human  spirit.  Then  Miss  Bodkin  goes  on  to 
consider  the  climax  of  the  poem,  the  blessing  of  the  snakes  and 
its  consequence,  which  she  relates  to  Jung's  archetypal  myth  of  "the 
night  journey  under  the  sea"  as  illustrated  by  the  Jonah  story — 
the  basic  Rebirth  ritual,  organized  around  guilt  and  expiation. 
Here  her  method  includes  her  own  associations  and  dreams  again, 
Lowes's  exploration  of  Coleridge's  sources,  Baudouin's  analysis  of 
similar  imagery  in  Verhaeren,  Hamlet's  predicament,  other  types 
of  the  "guilt-haunted  wanderer"  like  Cain  and  the  Wandering  Jew, 
and  the  general  problem  of  the  craving  for  death  or  re-entry  into 
the  womb,  as  reflected  in  dreams,  poetry,  and  psychoanalytic 
theory.  When  she  concludes,  she  not  only  has  used  the  poem  to 
illustrate  her  archetypal  pattern,  but  has  made  the  pattern  illumi- 
nate the  poem  and  its  effects,  fix  it  in  the  corpus  of  major  poetry, 
and  greatly  heighten  and  inform  enjoyment. 

Miss  Bodkin's  comparative  method  operates  in  a  similar  fashion. 
In  the  chapter  on  the  archetypal  image  of  woman,  she  considers 
Milton's  muse-mother  in  Paradise  Lost,  relates  it  to  the  goddess- 
mothers  in  Homer,  and  identifies  them  both  with  the  wife-mother 
mourning  for  Tammuz  and  the  other  slain  vegetation  gods.  She 
then  takes  up  the  ambiguous  balance,  in  Milton's  Eve,  of  Proser- 
pine, the  figure  of  doomed  youth,  and  Delilah,  the  betrayer;  finds 
the  same  ambiguity  of  betrayed-betrayer  in  Euripides'  Phaedra; 
notes  the  idealization  of  these  two  archetypes  in  Dante's  Beatrice, 
the  mother-imago,  with  all  their  earthly  elements  gone  to  make 
Helen,  Dido,  Cleopatra,  and  Francesca  (particularly  Francesca); 
observes  that  Vergil's  variants  of  the  archetypes,  Eurydice  and 
Dido,  bear  ambiguously  within  each  both  the  Beatrice  and  the 
Francesca  elements;  and  concludes  with  these  elements  as  stages 
in  the  dramatic  development  of  Goethe's  Gretchen,  Francesca  be- 
coming Beatrice.  In  dealing  with  the  shifting  interrelationship  of 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  479 

these  archetypal  women,  Miss  Bodkin  is  able  to  discuss  their  tem- 
poral aspects  in  the  differing  views  of  the  poets'  historical  periods, 
as  well  as  their  timelessly  archetypal  aspect  in  the  central  poetic 
vision. 

When  Miss  Bodkin  turns  to  contemporary  literature,  finding  the 
Rebirth  archetype  represented  in  opposing  bodily  and  spiritual 
terms  by  Lawrence's  Plumed  Serpent  and  Charles  Morgan's  The 
Fountain,  the  archetypal  poet-figure  as  a  father-imago  in  Virginia 
Woolf's  Orlando  and  the  phantasmagoric  fragments  of  rebirth  rites 
in  Eliot's  Waste  Land,  she  establishes,  although  almost  as  an 
afterthought,  the  persistence  of  these  patterns,  not  only  in  great 
literature  of  the  past  but  as  the  organizing  principle  of  any  serious 
work  of  art  to  our  own  day. 

In  noting  the  persistence  of  these  archetypes,  Miss  Bodkin 
tangles  willy-nilly  with  the  problem  of  how  they  are  transmitted. 
If,  as  Jung  (following  Freud)  claims,  they  are  primal  experience 
somehow  recorded  in  the  structure  of  the  brain,  then  they  require 
a  belief  in  the  inheritance  of  acquired  characteristics  and  a  demoli- 
tion of  Weismann's  monumental  hypothesis  of  the  continuity  of 
the  germ  plasm  (whereby  germ  plasm  is  never  created  out  of  so- 
matic plasm  and  consequently  cannot  reproduce  its  experiential 
alterations).  Freud  was  prepared  to  accept  this  responsibility  and, 
as  late  as  1939,  in  Moses  and  Monotheism,  affirmed  his  belief  in 
the  inheritance  of  acquired  characteristics  despite  the  views  of  con- 
temporary biological  science.  On  the  other  hand,  if,  as  many  con- 
temporary psychoanalysts  believe,  they  are  inherited  not  in  the 
physical  organism  but  in  the  cultural' context  and  are  reproduced 
in  each  generation  by  similar  infantile  experience,  then  they  would 
alter  radically  in  any  society,  generation  or  single  child  with  radi- 
cally different  infantile  experience  (as  Malinowski  found  the  matri- 
lineal  Trobrianders  had  a  matrilineal  variant  of  the  Oedipus  com- 
plex) .  Miss  Bodkin  attempts  to  get  around  this  problem  by  leaving 
the  matter  moot,  and  suggests  her  reservations  toward  the  Jungian 
position  in  the  first  few  pages  of  the  book: 

In  Jung's  formulation  of  the  hypothesis  ...  it  is  asserted  that 
these  patterns  are  .  .  .  "inherited  in  the  structure  of  the  brain"; 
but  of  this  statement  no  evidence  can  be  considered  here.  Jung 


480  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

believes  himself  to  have  evidence  of  the  spontaneous  production 
of  ancient  patterns  in  the  dreams  and  fantasies  of  individuals  who 
had  no  discoverable  access  to  cultural  material  in  which  the  pat- 
terns were  embodied.  This  evidence  is,  however,  hard  to  evaluate; 
especially  in  view  of  the  way  in  which  certain  surprising  repro- 
ductions, in  trance  states,  of  old  material,  have  been  subsequently 
traced  to  forgotten  impressions  of  sense  in  the  lifetime  of  the 
individual. 

By  page  257,  however,  she  has  so  far  forgotten  her  reservations 
as  to  concede  that:  "No  doubt  both  an  inherited  and  an  individu- 
ally acquired  factor  are  present"  in  the  superego,  the  inheritance 
"that  of  the  tribe  throughout  the  racial  past." 

Miss  Bodkin  is  saved  from  the  excesses  of  psychoanalytic  criti- 
cism by  a  constant  wariness  about  overemphasizing  the  psycho- 
logical factors  in  poetry.  She  writes: 

Enjoyment  of  the  beauty  of  poetry  is  spoiled  only  if  certain  of 
these  psycho-physiological  echoes  are  emphasized,  as  though  they 
were  somehow  more  real  than  all  the  other  elements  with  which 
in  a  mature  mind  they  are  fused — as  though  these  other  elements 
that  contribute  to  the  actually  experienced  response  were  a  mere 
evasion  or  disguise  of  those  few  primitive  elements  newly  identi- 
fied by  the  analyst. 

Her  psychological  factors  never  cause  a  poetic  effect  except  "in 
part."  In  her  central  defense  of  the  psychological  method,  printed 
as  an  appendix  entitled  "Psychological  Criticism  and  Dramatic 
Conventions,"  Miss  Bodkin  answers  the  objections  of  E.  E.  Stoll 
and  others  to  psychological  analysis  with  the  moderate  statements 
that  we  cannot  and  should  not  "cancel  the  psychological  awareness 
that  our  own  age  has  conferred  on  us,"  that  genuine  appreciation 
must  be  "with  the  complete  resources  of  our  minds,"  and  that  psy- 
chological insights  as  well  as  anything  Stoll  or  other  critics  can 
teach  us  are  all  valuable  components  of  this  enriched  apprehension. 
One  of  her  most  valuable  concepts  in  this  judicious  use  of  psy- 
chology is  Jung's  description  of  the  fallacy  of  "nothing  but"  think- 
ing, the  idea  that  a  poem  is  "nothing  but"  an  example  of  some 
category  (a  type  of  thinking  now  sometimes  called  "thalamic" 
from  the  thalamus,  the  part  of  the  brain  capable  of  only  crude  dis- 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  481 

tinctions).  Miss  Bodkin  insists  that  poetry,  instead  of  being  nothing 
but  her  psychology,  is  that  and  also  a  good  many  other  things. 

Unlike  the  professional  psychoanalysts,  who  rely  as  much  as 
possible  on  case  histories  and  clinical  records,  Miss  Bodkin  relies 
chiefly  on  introspection,  analyzing  and  reporting  to  the  best  of 
her  ability  her  own  psychological  reactions.  "Our  analysis  is  of 
the  experience  communicated  to  ourselves,"  she  writes.  She  de- 
scribes the  sensations  of  her  own  mind  on  reading  poetry,  what 
images  she  becomes  aware  of,  what  significance  or  tension  she 
feels,  what  associations  are  evoked,  what  reactions  of  empathy  or 
projection  arise,  what  transitions  are  made,  even  what  dreams  she 
dreams.  She  attempted  to  objectify  these  introspections,  or  at  least 
widen  their  base,  only  once,  in  the  essay  on  The  Ancient  Mariner. 
For  this  she  adapted  I.  A.  Richards'  laboratory  method,  described 
at  length  in  Practical  Criticism,  of  giving  poems  to  readers  for 
their  reactions,  with  the  modifications  that  in  her  case  poem  and 
author  were  identified  and  she  asked  only  emotional  response,  the 
result  of  "absorbed  musing,  or  reverie"  (Galton's  "free  associa-  " 
tion"),  rather  than  evaluative  opinion.  Although  the  material  ob- 
tained resulted  in  a  shrewd  series  of  questions  aimed  at  the  reader,  ' 
she  announced  regretfully  in  her  preface  to  the  book  that  she  had 
abandoned  the  attempt,  "since  it  was  not  found  practicable  to 
secure  from  those  with  whom  the  writer  was  in  touch  the  prolonged, 
concentrated  effort  required."  She  expressed  the  conviction,  how- 
ever, that  eventually  "intensive  work  on  the  poetic  experience  of*--" 
individuals  must  replace  more  extensive  methods  of  research." 

In  addition  to  her  basic  indebtedness  to  Jung,  and  modifications 
of  the  experimental  psychology  of  Galton  and  Richards,  Miss 
Bodkin  has  drawn  on  almost  every  available  psychology.  Her  in- 
debtedness to  Freud  is  particularly  heavy,  and  not  only  in  areas 
where  Jung  accepts  him.  She  questions  Freud's  assertion  that 
Oedipal  attitudes  underly  all  guilt  sense  in  dreams,  but  concedes 
that  "some  form  of  failure  in  relation  to  the  parents"  does — to 
the  extent  of  merging  with  any  other  factors  that  may  be  operative. 
She  accepts  Freud's  concept  of  the  superego  and  attempts  to  medi- 
ate between  Freud  and  Jung  as  to  whether  it  is  primarily  the 
influence  of  the  parents  in  infancy  or  of  the  tribe,  proposing  a 


482  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

compromise.  She  also  accepts,  sometimes  with  a  degree  of  reser- 
vation, such  miscellaneous  Freudian  concepts,  with  their  implica- 
tions, as  the  death  instinct  or  Thanatos  principle,  the  ego  and  id, 
the  pleasure  principle,  the  father-imago,  and  items  ranging  from 
flight  in  dreams  to  the  serpent  and  the  apple  in  the  story  of  the 
Fall,  as  varieties  of  sex  symbol. 

In  addition,  Miss  Bodkin  is  indebted  to  a  number  of  Freud's 
disciples  who  have  analyzed  literature.  She  acknowledges  Ernest 
Jones's  study  of  Hamlet  for  a  good  deal  of  her  method,  particularly 
such  basic  devices  in  the  psychological  genesis  of  literature  as  dis- 
sociation and  decomposition.  She  also  uses  Charles  Baudouin's 
modified  Freudian  study  of  Verhaeren,  Psychoanalysis  and  Es- 
thetics; the  Freudian  anthropology  of  Geza  Roheim,  and  others. 
At  the  same  time,  she  is  able  to  draw  on  nonpsychoanalytic  psy- 
chologies. From  Gestalt  psychology,  through  such  anthropologists 
as  Goldenweiser,  she  adopts  the  term  "configuration"  for  a  cultural 
pattern,  and  is  directly  familiar  with  at  least  Kohler's  work  on  The 
Mentality  of  Apes,  from  which  she  borrows  the  concept  of  an 
interval  of  suspension  before  the  resolution  of  a  problem. 

Besides  her  eclectic  psychology,  Miss  Bodkin  uses  philosophers, 
theologians,  anthropologists,  and  sociologists,  as  well  as  a  number 
of  modern  literary  critics,  among  them  William  Empson  on  am- 
biguity, G.  Wilson  Knight's  work  on  Othello,  and  John  Livingston 
Lowes's  exhaustive  study  of  Coleridge.  (It  is  ironic  that  Miss  Bod- 
kin, the  obvious  person  to  extend  Lowes's  observations  on  the 
sources  of  Coleridge's  images  in  the  only  area  in  which  they  can 
bear  extension,  the  psychoanalytic,  should  resolutely  refuse  to  do 
-  so.  She  is  as  oblivious  as  he  is,  for  example,  to  the  obvious  sex 
symbolism  of  the  caverns  and  mountains  in  Kubla  Khan.) 

With  the  aid  of  this  eclectic  bundle  of  theories  and  concepts, 
Miss  Bodkin  has  made  literary  criticism,  not  pseudoscience.  De- 
spite all  the  apparatus,  she  is  insistently  a  lover  of  poetry  and  a 
sensitive  reader.  Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry  is  noteworthy  for 
its  brilliant  insight  into  the  emotional  structure  of  King  Lear,  its 
explanation  (perhaps  the  first  satisfactory  one  for  our  time)  of 
the  power  Shelley's  poetry  had  on  its  readers,  its  sensitive  and  per- 
ceptive analysis  of  Virginia  Woolf's  techniques,  and  much  else.  To 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  483 

borrow  a  distinction  from  Kenneth  Burke,  she  is  primarily  inter- 
ested not  in  patterns  in  poetry,  but  in  patterns  in  poetry* 


The  psychological  criticism  of  literature,  much  more  than  any 
other  critical  method  here  discussed,  is  a  development  in  our  own 
century,  since  the  science  of  psychology  as  an  organized  body  of 
knowledge  began  within  the  lifetime  of  men  now  living.  Informally, 
criticism  has  been  psychological  from  its  beginnings,  in  the  sense 
that  any  critic  has  obviously  attempted  to  apply  what  he  knew  or 
believed  about  the  operations  of  the  human  mind.  With  the  recog- 
nition of  the  unconscious  by  Freud  just  before  the  turn  of  the 
century,  psychology  acquired  a  dimension  from  which  it  could 
i  contribute  insights  otherwise  unobtainable  into  the  origins  and 
structure  of  works  of  literature.  Of  psychological  critics  before 
Freud,  only  a  few  require  mention.  The  most  important  of  these, 
of  course,  is  .Aristotle,  the  principal  source  of  both  psychology  and 
the  psychological  criticism  of  literature.  Aristotle's  empirical  psy- 
chology is  all  through  his  work,  and  is  the  central  topic  of  De 
Anima  and  of  the  Parva  Naturalia,  the  short  physical  treatises  on 
memory  and  reminiscence,  on  dreams,  and  on  prophesying  by 
dreams.  He  applied  his  psychology  to  poetry  in  The  Poetics,  an- 
swering Plato's  psychological  fallacy  in  The  Republic,  that  poetry 
feeds  the  passions  and  is  thus  socially  harmful,  with  the  much 
sounder  psychological  theory  of  catharsis,  that  poetry  arouses  the 
passions  of  pity  and  terror  in  a  controllable  symbolic  form  and 
then  purges  them  through  its  operations.  The  Poetics  is  almost  a 
textbook  in  the  psychology  of  art;  and  such  concepts  as  hamartia, 
the  tragic  flaw  that  comes  from  the  hero's  imperfect  insight  into 
his  situation;  peripateia,  the  shock  of  change;  the  preference  of  the 
probable  impossible  over  the  improbable  possible;  and  many  others 
are  anticipations  of  basic  psychological  truths.  For  Plato  in  Ion 
the  poet  is  an  inspired  madman,  a  neurotic.  For  Aristotle  he  is 
closer  to  an  inspired  psychologist. 

Aristotle's  psychological  insights  into  art  were  extended  and 


484  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

developed  by  later  classical  writers  like  Longinus  and  Horace,  but 
the  next  major  step  in  psychological  criticism  came  only  with 
Coleridge's  Biographia  Literaria.  Coleridge  took  Aristotle's  psy- 
chology, as  modified  by  Aquinas,  Descartes,  Hobbes,  and  Hartley, 
none  of  whom  made  any  significant  advances  on  it,  and  turned  it 
on  poetry.  The  only  thing  that  kept  Coleridge  from  achieving  full- 
blown psychological  criticism  was  the  same  thing  that  had  pre- 
vented Aristotle,  the  quantitative  and  qualitative  inadequacy  of 
the  psychology.  Coleridge  actually  anticipated  the  unconscious,  re- 
ferring to  "those  flights  of  lawless  speculation  which,  abandoned 
I  by  all  distinct  consciousness,  because  transgressing  the  bounds  and 
'  purposes  of  our  intellectual  faculties,  are  justly  condemned  as 
!  transcendent,"  but  he  was  so  far  in  advance  of  his  time  as  to  be 
unable  to  do  anything  with  the  discovery.  Other  anticipations  of 
modern  psychlogical  criticism  in  the  Biographia  include  a  proposal 
for  reader  experiments  similar  to  those  Richards  made  in  our 
century,  a  distinction  in  terms  of  reader-affect  between  poetry  and 
science,  and  an  invaluable  concept  of  Imagination  (which  Richards 
spent  an  entire  volume,  Coleridge  on  Imagination,  developing  into 
modern  psychological  terminology). 

A  contemporary  of  Coleridge's  who  requires  mention  in  this 
chapter,  although  nowise  near  as  important,  is  Charles  Lamb. 
Although  Lamb  never  had  a  formal  psychology,  his  sister's  tragic 
insanity  and  his  own  disturbed  mental  states  made  him  particu- 
larly sensitive  to  the  relationship  between  psychology  and  art.  In 
"The  Sanity  of  Genius"  he  wrote  one  of  the  best  distinctions  be- 
tween art  and  neurosis  we  have,  and  in  "Witches  and  Other  Night 
r  Fears"  he  actually  anticipated  Jung's  archetypes.  He  wrote: 

Gorgons,  and  Hydras,  and  Chimaeras — dire  stories  of  Celasno 
and  the  Harpies — may  reproduce  themselves  in  the  brain  of 
superstition — but  they  were  there  before.  They  are  transcripts, 
types — the  archetypes  are  in  us,  and  eternal. — These  terrors — 
date  beyond  body — or,  without  the  body,  they  would  have  been 
the  same. 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  485 


With  the  publication  of  Freud's  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams 
in  1900,  the  psychoanalytic  criticism  of  literature  began.  Freud's 
contribution  has  a  number  of  aspects.  Perhaps  the  most  important 
is  the  body  of  writing  about  nonliterary  problems,  particularly 
dreams,  wit,  and  neurotic  symptoms,  that  contains  principles  that 
can  profitably  be  applied  to  literature.  This  includes  The  Interpre- 
tation of  Dreams  itself,  with  its  dream  mechanisms  like  condensa- 
tion, displacement,  secondary  elaboration,  and  splitting  that  appear 
to  be  the  basic  mechanisms  of  literary  creation,  its  basic  concept 
of  wish-fulfillment,  equally  applicable  to  art,  and  its  invaluable 
explorations  into  the  nature  of  symbolism;  as  well  as  other  works 
like  Wit  and  Its  Relation  to  the  Unconscious  and  Three  Contribu- 
tions to  the  Theory  of  Sex. 

Of  next  importance,  perhaps,  are  Freud's  specific  comments  on 
the  nature  of  art  and  the  artist.  The  earlier  ones,  in  "The  Relation 
of  the  Poet  to  Day-Dreaming,"  "Contributions  to  the  Psychology 
of  Love,"  "Formulations  Regarding  the  Two  Principles  in  Mental 
Functioning,"  and  even  Lecture  23  of  A  General  Introduction  to 
Psychoanalysis,  as  late  as  1920,  tend  to  establish  the  artist  as  an 
infantile  neurotic,  as  discussed  above.  Later  discussions,  particu- 
larly in  New  Introductory  Lectures  and  Beyond  the  Pleasure  Prin- 
ciple, tend  to  see  through  this  easy  formulation  to  a  recognition 
of  the  artist  as  a  neurotic  plus  his  art,  through  which  he  can  under- 
stand and  alter  reality;  and  in  an  address  at  his  seventieth  birthday 
celebration  Freud  refused  credit  for  having  discovered  the  sub- 
conscious, claiming  that  that  credit  properly  belonged  to  the  writers. 

The  final  category  of  Freud's  contribution  to  psychoanalytic 
literary  criticism  is  his  specific  discussions  of  artists  and  works  of 
art.  These  are  scattered  all  through  the  works  in  brief  comments, 
some  of  them  very  perceptive,  like  the  mention  of  Hamlet  in  The 
Interpretation  of  Dreams  (on  which  Jones  based  his  reading),  the 
.  analysis  of  King  Lear,  and  the  discussion  of  Greek  tragedy  in 
Totem  and  Taboo.  He  did  only  three  long  studies:  Leonardo  da 
Vinci:  A  Psychosexual  Study  of  Infantile  Reminiscence,  an  article 


486  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

on  "Dostoevsky  and  Parricide,"  and  a  study  of  an  obscure  German 
novel  called  Gradiva  by  Wilhelm  Jensen.  With  these  three  works 
Freud  established  both  types  of  analysis  with  which  his  followers 
were  to  concern  themselves:  the  pathography,  or  the  study  of  a 
neurotic  or  psychotic  personality  using  his  works  for  clues;  and 
actual  psychoanalytic  literary  criticism,  or  the  study  of  a  work  of 
literature  using  psychoanalytic  mechanisms  and  clinical  conjectures 
as  clues. 

Leonardo  da  Vinci  is  largely  pathography  (although  Freud  in- 
sists that  Leonardo  was  not  in  any  sense  a  neurotic).  It  is  an 
attempt,  relying  heavily  on  a  remarkable  analysis  of  a  fantasy- 
memory  of  Leonardo's  about  a  vulture,  to  reconstruct  the  artist's 
biography  and  psychic  development  by  way  of  understanding  his 
later  sexual  and  artistic  inhibitions.  Freud  calls  his  work  "a  bio- 
graphical effort,"  insists  that  it  is  tentative,  and  devotes  most  of 
his  space  to  conjecturing  infantile  roots  for  what  he  diagnoses  as 
Leonardo's  ideal,  or  incipient,  homosexuality.  Freud's  only  con- 
cern with  Leonardo's  works  is  to  explore  them  for  further  evidence 
of  the  artist's  psychic  life,  with  the  reservation  that  "when  one 
considers  what  profound  transformations  an  impression  of  an  artist 
has  to  experience  before  it  can  add  its  contribution  to  the  work 
of  art,  one  is  obliged  to  moderate  considerably  one's  expectation  of 
demonstrating  something  definite."  He  disregards  other  aspects  of 
the  works  and  at  one  place  seems  to  suggest  that  he  has  no  choice, 
that  "the  nature  of  artistic  attainment  is  psychoanalytically  inacces- 
sible to  us."  Nevertheless,  within  its  own  terms,  the  book  is  one 
of  Freud's  finest  works  and  an  almost  miraculous  reconstruction  of 
the  life  and  mind  of  a  complex  artist  four  hundred  years  dead. 

"Dostoevsky  and  Parricide"  is  about  halfway  between  the  two, 
chiefly  interested  in  getting  at  Dostoevsky's  hysterical  epilepsy, 
Oedipal  wish  for  his  father's  death,  and  latent  homosexuality. 
Nevertheless,  despite  his  statement  that  "before  the  problem  of 
the  creative  artist,  analysis  must  lay  down  its  arms,"  Freud  is 
highly  appreciative  of  Dostoevsky's  novels  as  remarkable  works  of 
art  and  very  much  concerned  with  contributing  what  he  can  to 
their  comprehension,  both  in  their  symbolic  relationship  to  the 
author's  neurosis  and  in  their  purely  formal  relations. 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  487 

Delusion  and  Dream  in  Wilhelm  Jensen's  "Gradiva"  is  pure 
literary  analysis.  With  the  curt  "we  have  not  access  to  the  psychic 
life  of  the  author,"  Freud  renounces  any  attempt  to  explore  Jen- 
sen's complexes  or  neuroses,  and  confines  himself  to  interpreting 
the  psychological  and  dream  structure  of  the  book,  analyzing  its 
symbolic  techniques  of  condensation  and  displacement,  and  in  gen- 
eral deepening  and  strengthening  its  meaning.  His  conclusion  is 
that  Jensen  was  generally  aware  of  psychoanalytic  truths,  not  from 
any  knowledge  of  formal  psychoanalysis,  but  from  the  exploration 
of  his  own  psyche.  The  artist  is  another  kind  of  psychoanalyst.  In 
fact,  Freud's  treatment  of  the  book  is  so  delicate  and  respectful 
that  it  is  not  really  Freudian  enough,  and  he  misses  or  ignores  a 
fine  Oedipus  complex  in  the  hero  (and  presumably  the  author) 
and  some  first-class  sex  symbolism  having  to  do  with  lizard- 
catching.  Part  of  Freud's  respect  for  the  book  is  obviously  that  it 
neatly  coincides  with  psychoanalytic  theory,  thus  to  some  extent 
"confirming"  it  in  its  early  years  ("Storytellers  are  valuable  allies 
and  their  testimony  is  to  be  rated  high,  for  they  usually  know 
many  things  between  heaven  and  earth  that  our  academic  wisdom 
does  not  even  dream  of"),  but  there  is  not  much  doubt  that 
Gradiva  is  a  poor  and  silly  little  novel  well  deserving  its  obscurity, 
and  that  Freud  in  overrating  it  and  analyzing  it  at  length  has 
written  his  own  very  much  better  novel. 

Actually  the  pathography  tradition  was  not  new  with  Freud, 
but  merely  continued,  in  long-range  unscientific  psychiatric  diag- 
nosis, a  nineteenth-century  tradition  of  long-range  unscientific  med- 
ical diagnosis,  in  which  a  learned  physician  deduced  for  the  eager 
literary  world  that  from  his  poetry  Byron  must  have  had  gallstones, 
or  Pope  high  blood  pressure.  This  is  the  tone  not  so  much  of 
Freud  as  of  many  of  his  disciples,  including  some  of  the  rebels.  It 
is  the  tone,  for  example,  of  Brill's  discussion  of  the  love  of  poetry 
as  simply  an  expression  of  oral  eroticism,  "a  chewing  and  sucking 
of  beautiful  words." 

The  only  psychoanalyst  who  has  devoted  himself  to  art  with  any 

-thoroughness  is  Otto  Rank.  Before  he  broke  with  Freud  in  the 

early  twenties,  Rank  wrote  a  number  of  valuable  psychoanalytic 

literary  studies:  The  Artist  in  1907,  The  Myth  of  the  Birth  of  the 


488  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Hero  in  1909,  a  study  of  the  Lohengrin  story  in  1911,  The  Incest- 
Motive  in  Poetry  and  Legend  in  1912,  and  two  essays  in  1914 
and  1922  later  published  as  Don  Juan  and  the  Double  (most  of 
these  available  in  English).  Of  these,  The  Myth  of  the  Birth  of  the 
Hero  is  perhaps  most  important.  Picking  up  a  suggestion  of  Freud's 
that  he  try  Galton's  method  of  creating  an  archetype  of  the  mythic 
birth  (and  apparently  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  a  similar  job  had 
been  done,  along  very  fragmentary  lines,  for  the  whole  life  of  the 
hero  by  Alfred  Nutt),  Rank  achieved  an  impressive  psychoanalytic 
study  in  comparative  mythology,  very  important  to  literature  and 
probably  the  genesis  of  Lord  Raglan's  invaluable  The  Hero  in 
1935. 

The  Incest-Motive  included  a  number  of  stimulating  Oedipal 
analyses,  among  them  one  of  Shakespeare's  Julius  Caesar  (point- 
ing out  that  Brutus,  Cassius,  and  Antony  are  three  splittings  of 
Caesar's  "son" — the  first  representing  his  rebelliousness,  the  sec- 
ond his  remorsefulness,  and  the  third  his  natural  piety)  and  one 
of  Baudelaire's  sonnets,  "The  Giantess."  After  Rank  broke  with 
Freud,  he  wrote  little  of  any  value  about  art,4  and  his  major  book 
on  the  subject,  Art  and  the  Artist,  published  in  English  in  1932, 
is  a  dull  and  very  Germanic  treatise  on  aesthetics,  drawing  chiefly 
on  warmed-over  anthropology,  centering  the  art-urge  in  a  desire 
to  immortalize  the  self,  warning  that  increasing  consciousness  will 
be  the  death  of  art,  and  resisting  psychoanalytic  interpretations  at 
a  number  of  points  where  they  would  prove  valuable,  while  in 
other  places  vulgarizing  psychoanalysis  overzealously,  particularly 
in  a  reading  of  Hamlet  as  direct  autobiography. 

Of  full-length  psychoanalytic  literary  studies  by  professional 
analysts  or  psychologists,  the  best  and  most  influential  is  probably 
Ernest  Jones's  study  of  Hamlet  in  his  Essays  in  Applied  Psycho- 
analysis. In  a  hundred  informed  and  closely  reasoned  pages,  re- 
vealing a  real  Shakespeare  scholarship  and  general  literacy,  Jones 
demolishes  every  Hamlet  theory  that  had  been  previously  main- 
tained; elaborates  and  sustains  his  own,  an  Oedipal  structure  un- 
conscious in  Hamlet,  unconscious  in  Shakespeare,  and  unconscious 
in  the  audience;  and  substantially  increases  appreciation  of  the 
play  by  showing  what  no  one  had  yet  succeeded  in  showing,  the 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  489 

reasonableness  and  inevitability  of  its  action,  although  still  leaving 
a  number  of  questions  unanswered.  Jones  has  done  no  other  com- 
parable literary  analysis,  but  his  book  contains  a  number  of  other 
essays  suggestively  applying  psychoanalysis  to  such  disparate  fields 
as  art,  folklore,  history,  politics,  religion,  and  even  journalism. 

A  book  as  sensitive  to  literary  values  and  far  from  the  pathog- 
raphy  as  Jones's  Hamlet  essay,  if  not  as  intrinsically  exciting,  is 
.Charles  Baudouin's  Psychoanalysis  and  Aesthetics,  a  lengthy  study 
of  poetic  symbolism  in  Verhaeren  by  a  man  who  is  himself  a  poet. 
Baudouin's  psychoanalysis  is  extremely  eclectic,  drawing  impar- 
tially on  Freud,  Jung,  Adler,  Rank,  and  Ribot.  Although  it  rarely 
goes  all  out  in  psychoanalytic  readings,  Baudouin's  book  is  a  re- 
markable job  of  detailed  symbolic  analysis  with  significant  inci- 
dental forays  anticipating  a  number  of  new  critical  techniques: 
multiple  translation  of  meaning  into  several  different  terminologies; 
polarization  of  obsessive  imagery  into  paired  terms  in  parallel  col- 
umns; and  discussion  of  the  significance  of  sounds  and  auditory 
symbolism.  Baudouin  insists  early  in  the  book  that  analysis  of  the 
works  of  genius  will  show  genius,  not  neurosis,  but  then  he  falls 
into  error  at  the  other  extreme,  and  insists  at  the  end  that  because 
a  poem  is  "an  admirable  illustration  of  the  psychology  of  sublima- 
tion," therefore  "true,"  it  is  a  "beautiful"  poem,  and  that  because 
the  poems  generally  accepted  as  Verhaeren's  masterpieces  are  those 
"most  fraught  with  symbolical  meaning,"  other  poems  as  fraught 
with  psychological  meaning  are  probably  also  masterpieces. 

At  the  other  pole  from  Baudouin's  analysis  of  Verhaeren  is  the 
work  of  his  countryman  the  French  psychoanalyst  Rene  Laforgue, 
on  Baudelaire.  The  Defeat  of  Baudelaire  is  pure  pathography,  sub- 
titled A  Psychoanalytic  Study  of  the  Neurosis  of  Charles  Baude- 
laire, and  announces  its  intention  frankly  on  the  first  page: 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  consider  Baudelaire's  position  in  litera- 
ture; neither  do  I  wish  to  undertake  an  analysis  of  his  art.  For 
me,  Baudelaire  is  simply  a  man,  a  sick  man  among  many  others, 
a  victim  of  life.  He  is  a  representative  of  an  army  of  the  mis- 
understood. My  only  reason  for  discussing  him  first  before  con- 
sidering the  others  is  that  thanks  to  his  art  he  is  more  accessible 
to  study  and  within  easier  reach  of  comprehension. 


490  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Frankly  using  Baudelaire's  poems,  journals,  and  records,  along 
with  Porche's  biography,  as  no  more  than  clinical  records,  La- 
forgue  finds  that  Baudelaire  had  an  Oedipus  complex,  a  maso- 
chistic complex  with  whipping  and  masturbation  fantasies,  latent 
homosexuality,  penis-inferiority,  probably  impotence  and  voyeur- 
ism (the  last  based  on  an  absolutely  conjectural  childhood  experi- 
ence), and  constipation.  For  Laforgue,  who  continually  insists 
that  his  aims  in  writing  the  book  included  warning  educators  not 
to  frighten  children  and  reforming  the  treatment  of  criminals,  the 
artist  is  a  "privileged"  neurotic  who  can  create  art,  and  poetic 
form  is  a  device  for  making  the  poet's  neurosis  unrecognizable 
except  by  clinicians.  Nothing  more  need  be  said  about  it  in  a  dis- 
cussion of  literary  criticism. 

Among  the  great  number  of  literary  discussions  by  psychoana- 
lytic psychiatrists,  only  two  more  can  be  touched  on,  as  examples 
of  current  American  practice.  Lawrence  S.  Kubie,  under  the  title 
The  Literature  of  Horror,  wrote  an  article  on  Faulkner's  Sanctuary 
and  one  on  Caldwell's  God's  Little  Acre  for  the  Saturday  Review 
of  Literature  in  1934  (along  with  one  on  Hemingway  that  seems 
never  to  have  appeared).  Kubie  makes  some  good  points,  particu- 
larly in  the  Faulkner  piece,  among  them:  a  discussion  of  the 
erotization  of  horror  and  anxiety  in  contemporary  American  litera- 
ture; the  insistence  that  he  is  not  psychoanalyzing  authors,  that  the 
statement  that  Sanctuary  is  a  series  of  male  impotence  fantasies  is 
not  the  statement  that  Faulkner  is  impotent,  but  merely  that  he 
is  imaginative;  and  the  much-needed  rejection  of  Faulkner's  claim 
that  the  book  is  a  piece  of  meaningless  hack  work.  He  ends  up, 
however,  with  the  rather  oversimple  formulation  of  Popeye  as  id, 
Benbow  as  ego,  and  the  mob  as  superego,  an  example  of  where 
terminology  can  lead  with  no  checkrein  on  it.  The  Caldwell  piece 
continues  some  of  these  topics,  but  is  less  concerned  with  the  work 
itself  than  with  exploring  the  nature  of  obscenity  and  the  implica- 
tions of  reader  reactions  to  it. 

A  more  literate  work,  but  limited  to  the  pathography,  is  Saul 
Rosenzweig's  essay  "The  Ghost  of  Henry  James"  in  Character  and 
Personality  for  December  1943,  reprinted  in  the  Fall  1944  Partisan 
Review.  Rosenzweig  uses  some  of  James's  short  stories  to  establish 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  491 

James  as  suffering  from  castration  anxiety  and  inferiority  complex, 
with  constitutional  bisexuality  "a  speculative  possibility."  Despite 
this  narrow  clinical  formulation,  and  liberal  salting  with  terms  like 
"repression,"  "frustration,"  "sublimation,"  and  "overcompensa- 
tion," Rosenzweig's  actual  readings  of  the  stories  are  extremely 
shrewd  and  sensitive  to  literary  values,  an  example  of  how  valuable 
he  and  men  like  him  could  be  if  they  turned  their  method  to 
analyzing  the  work  and  its  form  rather  than  the  man  (or  in  Rosen- 
zweig's case,  if  he  had  even  attempted,  for  example,  to  discuss  the 
concealment-evasion  aspects  of  James's  late  baroque  style). 

The  professional  literary  men  who  have  used  Freud  and  psycho- 
analysis are  almost  innumerable.  The  first  orthodox  use  came  as 
early  as  1912,  in  Frederick  Clarke  Prescott's  article  "Poetry  and 
Dreams"  in  the  Journal  of  Abnormal  Psychology,  reprinted  in  book 
form  in  1919.  Prescott  took  Freud's  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams, 
not  then  translated  into  English,  and  applied  it  systematically  to 
the  interpretation  of  poetry,  finding  poetry  to  be,  like  dreams,  the 
disguised  fulfillment  of  repressed  wishes,  and  suggesting  that  the 
mechanisms  Freud  found  in  the  "dream  work"  might  also  be 
the  mechanisms  of  the  "poetic  work."  At  the  same  time  he  at- 
tempted to  support  and  document  many  of  Freud's  new  and  shock- 
ing contentions  with  quotations  from  literary  men  through  the  ages. 
Despite  a  somewhat  mechanical  application,  a  concept  of  poetry 
as  "escape  from  reality,"  and  a  contempt  for  Coleridge's  "obfusca- 
tions"  on  fancy  and  imagination,  Prescott's  book  is  an  important 
beginning,  and  later  work  has  been  heavily  dependent  on  it.  In 
1922  he  published  The  Poetic  Mind,  a  fuller  treatment,  which 
despite  a  number  of  things  of  value,  among  them  an  anticipation 
of  Empson's  "ambiguity"  and  an  insistence  on  plural  meaning, 
represents  a  considerable  falling-off,  with  the  Freudian  psycho- 
analysis watered  down  to  fit  a  new  romantic  mysticism  and 
Shelley- worship. 

One  of  the  first  lay  attempts  to  use  psychoanalytic  concepts  in 
criticizing  specific  works  of  literature  came  in  1919,  in  Conrad 
Aiken's  Scepticisms:  Notes  on  Contemporary  Poetry.  Aiken  not 
only  utilized  Freud's  view  of  art,  but  attempted  to  reconcile  it 


492  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

with  Kostyleff's  theory  of  poetry  as  a  verbo-motor  discharge, 
Pavlov's  concept  of  the  conditioned  reflex,  and  other  scraps  of 
assorted  psychology.  Not  much  insight  came  from  this  jumble,  but 
Aiken  got  from  Freud  the  basic  attitude  of  contemporary  criticism, 
anticipating  Richards'  influential  statement  of  it  by  a  few  years: 
that  poetry  is  a  human  product,  satisfying  human  needs  like  any 
other,  and  that  it  has  discoverable  origins  and  functions,  open  to 
analysis. 

One  of  the  earliest  English  exponents  of  psychoanalytic  criti- 
cism was  Robert  Graves,  in  a  series  of  books  including  On  Eng- 
lish Poetry  (1922),  The  Meaning  of  Dreams  (1924),  and  Poetic 
Unreason  (1925).  Graves  attempted  detailed  psychoanalytic  read- 
ings of  specific  poems,  particularly  in  The  Meaning  of  Dreams, 
where  he  analyzed  Keats's  "La  Belle  Dame  sans  merci,"  Cole- 
ridge's "Kubla  Khan,"  and  a  poem  of  his  own.  Perhaps  because 
Graves  largely  rejected  Freud  and  Jung  in  favor  of  the  psycho- 
analytic theories  of  W.  H.  R.  Rivers,  emphasizing  dissociation  of 
unconscious  personalities  and  traumatic  experiences;  perhaps  be- 
cause he  attempted  to  correlate  the  best  poetry  with  the  best  un- 
conscious personality  conflicts;  more  likely  because  he  combined 
ignorance  with  brashness  to  an  amazing  degree,  the  results  were 
atrocious  and  may  have  discouraged  later  British  efforts.  (The  one 
completely  successful  application  by  an  English  critic  of  psycho- 
analytic concepts  to  a  work  of  art  is  William  Empson's  essay  on 
Alice  in  Wonderland.) 

A  special  and  rather  confusing  English  case  is  Herbert  Read. 
No  one  has  written  so  enthusiastically  on  the  importance  of  psy- 
choanalysis, and  in  fact  of  all  psychology,  for  literature  and  literary 
criticism.  He  writes  that  the  critic  must  pick  from  psychology,  par- 
ticularly psychoanalysis,  "his  brightest  weapons,"  that  in  some 
areas  the  critic  can  only  ask  questions  for  psychology  to  answer, 
that  psychology  has  finally  been  able  to  explain  aesthetic  mysteries 
like  catharsis,  and  so  on.  In  an  article  on  "Psychoanalysis  and 
Criticism"  in  Reason  and  Romanticism  (later  expanded  as  "The 
Nature  of  Criticism"  in  Collected  Essays  in  Literary  Criticism) 
Read  has  written  a  remarkably  reasoned  and  persuasive  argument 
for  psychoanalytic  criticism,  emphasizing  eclecticism,  moderation, 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  493 

and  the  limitations  and  dangers  of  psychoanalysis  as  well  as  its 
enormous  possibilities.  The  only  trouble  with  this  is  that  Read  has 
practiced  very  little  of  what  he  preaches.  Aside  from  his  book  on 
Wordsworth,  a  long  essay  on  Shelley,  and  a  study  of  the  Brontes, 
none  of  them  very  deep  or  very  perceptive,  and  the  frequent  use 
of  some  Freudian  terms  and  Jung's  "introversion-extraversion," 
Read's  own  work  seems  to  have  been  almost  untouched  by  psy- 
choanalysis. Like  Moses,  he  saw  the  Promised  Land,  but  somehow 
never  managed  to  enter  it.  W.  H.  Auden  similarly  has  done  a 
brilliant  analysis  of  Freud's  significance  for  art  in  "Psychology  and 
Art  Today"  in  the  symposium  The  Arts  Today,  without  ever  mak- 
ing much  use  of  the  method  in  his  criticism. 

Lionel  Trilling's  case  in  America  is  somewhat  comparable.  He 
wrote  a  remarkably  good  estimate  of  Freud's  literary  and  aesthetic 
significance,  reflecting  wide  familiarity  with  Freud's  work,  in  the 
Kenyon  Review  for  Spring  1940,  pointing  out  that  in  one  respect 
Freud  actually  sees  the  human  mind  as  a  poetry-making  organ, 
and  that  psychoanalysis  is  thus  a  science  of  tropes.  However,  he 
so  hedged  this  around  with  limitations  based  on  a  contrary  tend- 
ency he  saw  in  Freud,  a  contemptuous  attitude  toward  art,  that 
it  ended  up  more  or  less  on  the  fence.  Trilling's  critical  practice, 
in  his  studies  of  Matthew  Arnold  and  E.  M.  Forster,  reflects  this 
divided  mind,  and  although  his  use  of  psychoanalytic  insights  is 
fairly  extensive,  they  tend  to  be  always  tentative,  halfhearted,  and 
sometimes  stillborn. 

Other  American  critics  who  have  attempted  to  utilize  psycho- 
analysis include  Edmund  Wilson  and  Van  Wyck  Brooks,  the  for- 
mer moving  increasingly  toward  it  as  he  discarded  Marxism,  the 
latter  sampling  tasty  bits  of  every  psychoanalysis  eventually  to 
discard  them  all.  William  Troy  has  done  at  least  one  psychoanalytic 
piece,  on  Stendhal's  Oedipus  complex.  Of  the  men  influenced  by 
Brooks,  Frank  went  head-over-heels  for  the  mistier  areas  of  psy- 
choanalysis, to  repudiate  them  all  later,  psychoanalysts  being  "phil- 
osophically shallow  men,"  for  his  private  mysticism — holism,  the 
good  life,  and  the  athletic  soul;  and  Mumford  picked  up  Raymond 
Weaver's  silly  and  lyric  biography  of  Melville,  Herman  Melville, 
Mariner  and  Mystic,  and  based  on  it  a  sillier  and  even  more  lyric 


494  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

one  of  his  own,  Herman  Melville,  full  of  undigested  Freud  and 
plain  bad  taste  ("it  may  be"  that  Melville's  wife  "was  timid  and 
irresponsive  as  a  lover").  A  few  other  psychoanalytic  biographies 
of  the  twenties  and  thirties  seem  better  and  more  perceptive,  like 
Katharine  Anthony's  of  Margaret  Fuller  and  Louisa  May  Alcott, 
Rosamond  Langbridge's  study  of  Charlotte  Bronte,  and  Joseph 
Wood  Krutch's  biography  of  Poe,  although  they  could  all  have 
ended  on  a  variant  of  the  ultimate  "nothing  but"  fallacy  with 
which  Krutch  ended  his:  "We  have,  then,  traced  Poe's  art  to  an 
abnormal  condition  of  the  nerves." 

Much  contemporary  American  critical  use  of  psychoanalysis  has 
in  fact  been  a  good  deal  worse.  The  chief  sinners  are  the  amateur 
sexologists  and  Peeping  Toms  of  criticism,  typified  by  Ludwig 
Lewisohn's  Expression  in  America  (Thoreau,  for  example,  is  a 
clammy  prig,  the  result  of  being  hopelessly  inhibited  to  the  point 
of  psychical  impotence,  or  else  hopelessly  undersexed;  and  almost 
every  American  writer  is  similarly  debunked).  Only  a  few  steps 
above  this  are  such  readings  as  Thomas  Beer's  straight  sexual 
interpretation  of  Henry  Adams  in  The  Mauve  Decade,  Mark  Van 
Doren's  debunking  of  Whitman's  poetry  and  ideas  on  the  basis 
of  his  homosexuality,  and  Edward  Dahlberg's  sexual  readings  of 
all  literature  in  Do  These  Bones  Live,  in  the  name  of  anti-psycho- 
analysis and  Tolstoy's  statement  that  man's  deepest  suffering  is 
always  the  tragedy  of  the  bedroom. 

Other  psychologies  besides  psychoanalysis  have  been  turned  on 
art  with  a  good  deal  of  success  in  our  time.  Perhaps  the  most 
influential  is  the  integrated  psychology  of  I.  A.  Richards,  drawing 
on  neurological  psychology,  behaviorism,  psychoanalysis,  and 
Gestalt,  as  well  as  his  own  empirical  observations.  Kenneth  Burke, 
who  has  used  Freud  extensively,  and  has  written  the  most  pene- 
trating analysis  I  know  of  the  implications  and  necessary  modifi- 
cations of  psychoanalysis  for  criticism  in  "Freud — and  the  Analysis 
of  Poetry"  in  The  Philosophy  of  Literary  Form,  has  also  drawn 
on  every  modern  psychological  school  to  achieve  an  integrated 
psychology  which  he  calls  "phenomenological,"  based  chiefly  on 
Gestalt,  which  would  avoid  "the  tenuousness  of  the  purely  intro- 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  495 

spective"  as  well  as  "the  impoverishment  of  the  purely  behavior- 
istic." 

A  psychology  that  seems  at  least  as  promising  for  literary  criti- 
cism as  psychoanalysis  is  the  Gestalt  school,  which  as  far  as  I 
know  has  had  little  direct  professional  application  to  literature.5 
This  seems  due  in  part  to  the  laboratory-science  emphasis  given 
it  by  its  founders,  Max  Wertheimer,  Kurt  Koffka,  and  Wolfgang 
Kohler,  in  favor  of  phenomena  objectively  ascertainable  in  a  con- 
trolled experiment.  So  far  the  concern  of  the  school  has  chiefly 
been  with  the  conscious  surface  of  the  mind,  with  processes  like 
"perception"  and  "learning,"  which  comes  clear  in  Wertheimer's 
book  Productive  Thinking,  where  the  examples  tend  inevitably  to 
come  from  the  reasonable  processes  of  geometric  theorems  and 
Einstein's  discovery  of  relativity  rather  than  from  less  reasonable 
and  ascertainable  phenomena,  like  poetic  images  or  Shakespeare's 
discovery  of  Lear.  Nevertheless,  the  basic  conception  of  the  school, 
that  reaction  is  to  the  total  configuration  or  Gestalt  of  an  experi- 
ence, rather  than  to  any  single  "stimulus,"  and  that  in  this  respect 
the  whole  is  greater  than  the  sum  of  the  parts  and  determines  their 
character,  seems  to  be  one  of  central  relevance  to  problems  of  lit- 
erature and  art.  Genetically,  in  fact,  the  Gestalt  conception  of  total 
configuration  was  inspired  by  the  formal  nature  of  art,  in  von 
Ehrenfels'  recognition  that  when  a  musical  melody  is  transposed, 
and  all  the  component  notes  changed,  its  Gestaltqualitat  remains 
the  same,  because  the  relations  of  the  notes  are  preserved.  The 
artist's  problem  of  communicating  the  essential  pattern  of  his  ex- 
perience, through  a  medium  in  which  he  did  not  have  the  experi- 
ence, and  often  one  utilizing  a  different  sense  (a  landscape  in  a 
poem,  a  bird  song  in  a  sculpture,  etc.)  would  seem  to  be  precisely 
a  matter  of  this  Gestaltqualitat,  and  thus  an  area  in  which  Gestalt 
psychology  could  be  particularly  fruitful.  Its  theoretical  framework, 
emphasizing  "field"  concepts,  makes  full  provision  for  the  be- 
havioral patterns  of  the  unconscious  mind,  which  are  just  as  con- 
figurative,  and  recognizes  in  theory  that  the  incongruous  relation- 
ships of  poetic  metaphor  are  as  "productive"  perceptions  for  poetry 
as  the  more  traditional  relationships  of  mathematics  are  for  science. 
There  is  not  much  doubt  that  when  the  younger  integrative  gestal- 


496  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tists,  followers  of  the  late  Kurt  Lewin  (who  wrote  in  Principles 
of  Topological  Psychology:  "the  only  approach  to  deeper  problems 
was  the  brilliant  work  of  Freud"),  and  social  gestaltists  like  S.  E. 
Asch  and  J.  F.  Brown  finally  turn  their  attention  to  the  structural 
relations,  configurations,  "fields,"  and  "topology"  of  works  of  lit- 
erature, and  professional  critics  pick  up  and  extend  their  insights, 
a  new  area  of  tremendous  value  will  open  up  to  literary  criticism. 


A  few  problems  raised  by  Miss  Bodkin's  work  and  psychological 
criticism  in  general  remain  to  be  discussed.  The  first  of  them  is  her 
moral  and  religious  emphasis,  present  in  Archetypal  Patterns  in 
Poetry  but  not  obtrusive;  very  obtrusive  in  her  only  other  book,  a 
rather  disappointing  pamphlet  published  in  1941  called  The  Quest 
for  Salvation  in  an  Ancient  and  a  Modern  Play.  In  it  Miss  Bodkin 
compares  the  Eumenides  of  Aeschylus  and  T.  S.  Eliot's  Family 
Reunion,  principally  in  terms  of  their  different  salvations.  Salvation 
in  the  Eumenides,  she  finds,  is  collective  and  historical,  with 
Athena's  conversion  of  the  Erinyes,  or  Furies,  into  the  Eumenides, 
or  Fair-Minded  Ones,  and  a  consequent  better  order  of  justice  for 
the  community.  Although  Eliot's  predicament  is  as  collective  as 
Aeschylus',  Miss  Bodkin  maintains,  his  hero's  salvation  at  the  end 
is  entirely  individual  and  spiritual,  in  terms  of  new  personal  rela- 
tions and  psychological  insight,  by  which  his  private  "Furies"  are 
pacified.  On  the  strength  of  this  comparison,  Miss  Bodkin  explores 
the  contrast  between  the  Athenian  age  and  our  own  in  terms  of 
morality,  justice,  and  peace.  She  writes: 

Certainly  we  know  beforehand  that  the  poet  of  today  cannot 
write  in  such  mood  of  exultation  as  seems  to  have  possessed 
Athenians  of  the  time  of  Aeschylus.  Their  poet  could  shape  his 
drama  to  reveal  to  his  fellow  citizens  and  celebrate  with  them  the 
greatness  of  their  city's  achievement.  The  advance  of  the  human 
spirit  accomplished  by  Athens  leads  our  thought  forward  today  to 
the  greater  advance — conceived  by  us  but  still  far  from  achieve- 
ment— of  some  tribunal,  or  center  of  government,  that  should 
replace  violence  by  equity  between  nations  throughout  the  world. 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  497 

Had  we  succeeded  in  founding  an  institution  that  could  tame 
national  resentments,  as  resentments  have  been  tamed  between 
fellow  citizens,  some  myth  of  divine  intervention  might  take 
shape  for  us  in  poetry  reflecting  our  collective  triumph.  But  at 
this  dark  hour  of  the  world's  fortunes,  if  poet  of  ours  fashions  a 
myth  of  achieved  deliverance,  it  is  individual  and  spiritual  tri- 
umph only  his  symbol  can  reflect. 

In  The  Quest  for  Salvation  Miss  Bodkin  is  still  to  some  extent 
concerned  with  psychoanalytic  readings;  she  still  quotes  Freud  and 
Jung  and  even  suggests  a  Furies  archetype,  the  energy  of  passion 
fixed  in  an  evil  relationship  but  capable  of  transformation  into  a 
good  one.  In  line  with  her  new  emphasis,  however,  her  chief  quot- 
ing is  of  assorted  mystic  doctrine,  including  that  of  John  Macmur- 
ray's  The  Structure  of  Religious  Experience,  Nicolai  Hartman's 
Ethics,  and  Whitehead's  concept  of  "causal  efficacy"  in  Process 
and  Reality.  From  Hartman  she  picks  up  the  view  of  the  "super- 
aesthetic  function  of  poetry  in  giving  concrete  unity  and  shape  to 
'prospective  ethos' — ideals  dawning  in  the  moral  consciousness 
of  the  community,"  and  on  the  strength  of  it  confesses  that  her 
pamphlet  is  not  aesthetic  study  but  superaesthetic  study,  an  attempt 
to  explore  "certain  realities  of  our  common  life  through  the  me- 
dium of  the  poetry  of  these  plays."  Valuable  as  this  may  prove 
to  be  for  ethics,  religion,  or  international  law,  it  seems  largely 
the  abnegation  of  the  literary  critic's  function. 

A  major  problem  raised  by  Miss  Bodkin's  use  of  Jungian  arche- 
types in  criticism  is  their  relation  to  folklore  and  anthropology. 
Her  debt  to  Frazer  is,  of  course,  obvious,  and  an  unsigned  brief 
review  of  Archetypal  Patterns  in  the  London  Mercury  began 
"under  the  pleasant  shadow  of  Frazer's  Golden  Bough.  .  .  ."  Miss 
Bodkin  draws  heavily  not  only  on  Frazer  and  on  such  later  anthro- 
pologists as  Emile  Durkheim,  G.  Elliot  Smith,  Robert  Briffault, 
and  Alexander  Goldenweiser,  but  specifically  on  the  anthropologi- 
cal students  of  ancient  art  and  religion:  Gilbert  Murray,  Francis 
Cornford,  Jane  Harrison,  R.  R.  Marett,  and  Jessie  Weston.  She 
makes  particular  use  of  Cornford,  whose  "spiritual  power,"  de- 
rived from  "the  collective  emotion  and  activity  of  the  group,"  she 
finds  an  anticipation  of  Jung's  collective  unconscious,  just  as  she 


498  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

finds  Murray  anticipating  Jung's  archetypes  in  his  "situations 
deeply  implanted  in  the  memory  of  the  race,  stamped  as  it  were 
upon  our  physical  organism." 

Miss  Bodkin's  central  point  of  view  is  the  ritual  genesis  of  art 
associated  with  the  Cambridge  group,  and  when  she  is  writing  most 
rationally  and  farthest  from  Jung's  mystic  concept  of  biological 
memory,  she  recognizes  that  the  transmission  of  her  archetypes  is 
actually  a  ritual  one,  writing:  "It  may  be  that  an  influence  of  this 
kind  can  pass,  embodied  only  in  tradition — in  the  emotion  com- 
municated, first  through  ritual  with  accompanying  myth  and  legend, 
then  on  through  poetry  preserving,  as  Virgil's  poem  preserves,  the 
influence  of  a  ritual."  In  an  appendix  to  Archetypal  Patterns, 
"Criticism  and  Primitive  Ritual,"  Miss  Bodkin  makes  explicit  her 
belief  in  the  ritual  origins  of  art  and  religion  and  defends  Eliot's 
references  to  ancient  ritual  in  The  Waste  Land  against  criticism 
by  Alec  Brown,  finding  them  an  enhancement  of  the  magic  and 
beauty  of  the  poem  rather  than  scraps  of  pseudo  learning. 

There  is  a  necessary  and  inevitable  relationship  between  the 
genetic  study  of  folk  literature  in  terms  of  ritual  origins  and  the 
functional  analysis  of  it  in  terms  of  psychological  and  social  needs 
that  makes  Jung's  or  some  collective  psychology  as  essential  to 
folk  criticism  as  Frazer's  anthropology.  Such  a  folk  critic  would 
have  to  go  beyond  Miss  Bodkin,  however,  in  rejecting  Freud's 
and  Jung's  concept  of  inherited  memory  and  treating  the  psycho- 
logical need  for  these  ritual  patterns  as  having  been  re-created 
afresh  in  each  generation  by  cultural  conditioning,  as  she  suggests 
in  the  quotation  above.  Not  only  are  the  archetypal  patterns  the 
basis  of  literature,  as  Miss  Bodkin  so  excellently  shows,  but  at 
least  for  our  own  time  literature  is  one  of  the  great  disseminators 
of  the  archetypal  patterns. 

Two  general  questions  raised  by  psychological  criticism  remain. 
The  first  is  the  problem,  new  to  our  own  day,  of  criticizing  the 
writer  who  has  himself  had  serious  acquaintance  with  psycho- 
analytic literature.  Frederick  J.  Hoffman,  in  Freudianism  and  the 
Literary  Mind,  raises  this  problem  in  his  discussion  of  the  influence 
of  Freud  on  writers  like  Joyce,  Lawrence,  Mann,  and  Kafka; 
William  York  Tindall,  in  Forces  in  Modern  British  Literature,  dis- 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  499 

cusses  it  in  connection  with  Dylan  Thomas  and  his  followers;  and 
Wertham  would  have  run  into  it  in  connection  with  Richard  Wright 
had  he  chosen  to  analyze  a  later  work  consciously  using  psycho- 
analytic discoveries,  like  The  Man  Who  Lived  Underground.  When 
Ernest  Jones  analyzed  the  Oedipus  pattern  in  Hamlet,  he  could 
safely  assume  that  Shakespeare  had  not  read  about  the  Oedipus 
complex  in  Freud  and  decided  to  organize  his  work  around  it  for 
greater  effectiveness,  but  the  same  assumption  is  no  longer  possible 
about  writers  like  Joyce  and  Mann.  In  his  two  essays  on  Freud, 
"Freud's  Position  in  the  History  of  Modern  Thought"  and  the 
eightieth-birthday  tribute  "Freud  and  the  Future,"  Mann  makes  it 
clear  not  only  that  he  has  consciously  written  formal  psychoana- 
lytic insights  into  his  novels,  but  also  that  the  Joseph  tetralogy 
was  specifically  inspired  by  Freudian  writings.  In  the  case  of  such 
writers  (and  there  is  every  reason  to  assume  that  the  situation  is 
now  permanently  with  us)  the  critic  happily  dredging  up  a  psycho- 
analytic insight  from  a  work  is  somewhat  in  the  position  of  a  man 
'finding  buried  treasure  at  Fort  Knox.  The  psychoanalytic  critic 
can  still  assume  that  the  pattern  taken  over  is  personally  meaning- 
ful, since  a  writer  expresses  his  basic  needs  as  clearly  in  formal 
material  consciously  chosen  as  in  unconscious  material,  but  he 
can  no  longer  assume  that  in  revealing  it  he  is  making  any  sub- 
stantial critical  contribution.  Some  of  the  effect  of  sad  inadequacy 
in  such  Freudian  criticisms  of  D.  H.  Lawrence  as  Horace  Gregory's 
Pilgrim  of  the  Apocalypse  undoubtedly  comes  from  the  reader's 
feeling  that  Lawrence  himself  could  do  a  much  deeper  and  more 
perceptive  psychoanalytical  criticism  of  either  his  own  work  or 
anyone  else's. 

Finally,  there  is  the  general  problem  of  the  possibilities  and 
future  of  psychoanalytic  criticism.  The  disappointing  feature  of  the 
Partisan  Review  controversy  on  the  subject,  inspired  by  Dr.  Rosen- 
zweig's  pathography  of  Henry  James,  is  that  it  was  centered  almost 
exclusively  on  the  problem  of  art  and  neurosis,  one  of  the  ques- 
tions least  needing  exploration  these  days.  Only  Robert  Gorham 
Davis'  contribution,  "Art  and  Anxiety,"  in  the  Summer  1945  issue, 
faced  the  major  problem  of  suggesting  what  psychoanalysis  can 
do  rather  than  denning  what  it  cannot  do.  In  a  few  suggestive 


500  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

hints  analyzing  the  Red  Ridinghood  story;  in  a  call  for  joint 
Freudian  and  Marxist  analyses,  unsimplified  and  unvulgarized; 
and  particularly  in  a  formulation  of  the  field  for  psychoanalytic 
criticism  in  the  study  of  how  a  work  of  art  satisfies  unconscious 
emotional  needs  (that  is,  a  psychoanalytic  study  of  form),  Davis 
sketched  out  the  hopeful  direction. 

The  obvious  limitation  of  traditional  Freudian  literary  analysis 
is  that  only  one  study  can  be  written,  since  every  additional  one 
would  turn  out  to  say  the  same  thing.  Ernest  Jones  could  do  a 
beautiful  job  finding  the  underlying  Oedipus  complex  in  Hamlet, 
but  had  he  gone  on  to  analyze  Lear  or  A  Midsummer  Night's 
Dream  or  the  Sonnets  he  would  have  found  to  his  surprise  that  they 
reflected  Shakespeare's  Oedipus  complex  too,  and,  in  fact,  granting 
his  theories,  he  would  have  made  the  same  discovery  about  any 
other  work  of  art.  A  criticism  that  can  only  say,  however  ingen- 
iously, that  this  work  is  a  result  of  the  author's  repressed  Oedipal 
desires,  and  that  everybody  has  repressed  Oedipal  desires,  turns 
out  not  to  be  saying  very  much. 

Here  Maud  Bodkin's  Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry  is  the  hope. 
By  focusing,  not  on  the  neurosis  of  the  artist,  not  on  the  complexes 
concealed  beneath  the  work,  not  on  the  art  as  a  disguised  fulfill- 
ment of  repressed  wishes,  but  on  how  a  work  of  art  is  emotionally 
satisfying,  what  relationship  its  formal  structure  bears  to  the  basic 
patterns  and  symbols  of  our  psyches,  she  has  furnished  psychologi- 
cal criticism  with  endless  vistas.  What  does  this  poem  do,  she  asks, 
and  how  does  it  do  it?  These  are  the  traditional  questions  of  criti- 
cism; psychologies — psychoanalysis  perhaps  more  than  any  other 
— offer  great  resources  in  answering  them,  and  the  answers  will 
be  as  different  as  the  poems.  Let  it  be  said  to  the  credit  of  this 
all  but  unknown  woman  and  her  book  that  in  one  sense  she  per- 
formed as  essential  a  job  for  literary  criticism  as  Sigmund  Freud 
did.  He  turned  the  blinding  light  of  science  on  the  depths  of  the 
human  unconscious;  she  showed  that  in  that  fierce  glare  even 
the  most  delicate  poem  need  not  wither  away. 

1  In  keeping  with  this  view,  Jung  has  written  very  little  on  specific  artists 
and  works  of  art.  The  only  literary  studies  I  know  of  are  a  brief  discussion 


Maude  Bodkin  and  Psychological  Criticism  501 

of  Goethe's  Faust  in  Psychology  of  the  Unconscious,  and  an  analysis  of 
Joyce's  Ulysses  in  Wirklichkeit  der  Seele. 

2  William  Ernest  Henley,  a  biographical  study  by  Jerome  Hamilton  Buck- 
ley, which  appeared  in  1946,  is  an  Adler-influenced  work  that  treats  Hen- 
ley's character  as  a  "masculine  protest"  against  his  crippling  bone  tubercu- 
losis, and  may  finally  herald  an  Adlerian  literary  trend. 

3  W.  P.  Witcutt,  in  Blake:  A  Psychological  Study,  published  in  England  in 
1946,  attempted  to  use  Jungian  psychology  "to  indicate  a  path  through  the 
Blakean  jungle"  of  the  Prophetic  Books.  His  book  seems  to  me  a  madden- 
ing and  almost  pointless  one,  and  makes  an  interesting  contrast  to  Miss  Bod- 
kin's. Witcutt  employs  Jung's  most  mystic  and  theosophical  concepts  to  turn 
on  Blake's  metaphysical  muddles,  and  the  result  is  confusion  worse  con- 
founded. 

4  The  relationship  here  is  not  necessarily  causal,  although  it  is  not  neces- 
sarily irrelevant  either. 

5  A  few  Gestalt  works  on  the  general  subject  of  art  have  been  produced, 
among  them  H.  E.  Reese's  A  Psychology  of  Artistic  Creation,  Werner 
Wolff's  The  Expression  of  Personality  (which,  although  it  deals  largely  with 
such  self-expressions  as  walking  and  talking,  has  obvious  relevance  to  aes- 
thetic expression),  and  Rudolf  Arnheim's  article  "Gestalt  and  Art,"  in  the 
Journal  of  Aesthetics,  Fall  1943.  Arnheim  is  also  currently  teaching  a 
Gestalt  course  in  the  Psychology  of  Art  at  the  New  School  for  Social  Re- 
search, and  contributed  an  essay,  "Psychological  Notes  on  the  Poetical 
Process,"  to  Poets  at  Work,  Charles  D.  Abbott's  symposium  on  the  collec- 
tion of  poets'  work  sheets  in  the  University  of  Buffalo  library. 


Lionel  Trilling 


Art  and  Neurosis 


The  question  of  the  mental  health  of  the  artist 
has  engaged  the  attention  of  our  culture  since  the  beginning  of  the 
Romantic  Movement.  Before  that  time  it  was  commonly  said  that 
the  poet  was  "mad,"  but  this  was  only  a  manner  of  speaking,  a  way 
of  saying  that  the  mind  of  the  poet  worked  in  different  fashion 
from  the  mind  of  the  philosopher;  it  had  no  real  reference  to  the 
mental  hygiene  of  the  man  who  was  the  poet.  But  in  the  early  nine- 
teenth century,  with  the  development  of  a  more  elaborate  psychol- 
ogy and  a  stricter  and  more  literal  view  of  mental  and  emotional 
normality,  the  statement  was  more  strictly  and  literally  intended. 
So  much  so,  indeed,  that  Charles  Lamb,  who  knew  something 
about  madness  at  close  quarters  and  a  great  deal  about  art,  under- 
took to  refute  in  his  brilliant  essay,  "On  the  Sanity  of  True 
Genius,"  the  idea  that  the  exercise  of  the  imagination  was  a  kind 
of  insanity..  And  some  eighty  years  later,  the  idea  having  yet  fur- 
ther entrenched  itself,  Bernard  Shaw  felt  called  upon  to  argue  the 
sanity  of  art,  but  his  cogency  was  of  no  more  avail  than  Lamb's. 
In  recent  years  the  connection  between  art  and  mental  illness  has 
been  formulated  not  only  by  those  who  are  openly  or  covertly 
502 


Art  and  Neurosis  503 

hostile  to  art,  but  also  and  more  significantly  by  those  who  are  most 
intensely  partisan  to  it.  The  latter  willingly  and  even  eagerly  accept 
the  idea  that  the  artist  is  mentally  ill  and  go  on  to  make  his  illness 
a  condition  of  his  power  to  tell  the  truth. 

This  conception  of  artistic  genius  is  indeed  one  of  the  character- 
istic notions  of  our  culture.  I  should  like  to  bring  it  into  question. 
To  do  so  is  to  bring  also  into  question  certain  early  ideas  of  Freud's 
and  certain  conclusions  which  literary  laymen  have  drawn  from  the 
whole  tendency  of  the  Freudian  psychology.  From  the  very  start 
it  was  recognized  that  psychoanalysis  was  likely  to  have  important 
things  to  say  about  art  and  artists.  Freud  himself  thought  so,  yet 
when  he  first  addressed  himself  to  the  subject  he  said  many  clumsy 
and  misleading  things.  I  have  elsewhere  and  at  length  tried  to  sepa- 
rate the  useful  from  the  useless  and  even  dangerous  statements 
about  art  that  Freud  has  made.  To  put  it  briefly  here,  Freud  had 
some  illuminating  and  even  beautiful  insights  into  certain  particu- 
lar works  of  art  which  made  complex  use  of  the  element  of  myth. 
Then,  without  specifically  undertaking  to  do  so,  his  Beyond  the 
Pleasure  Principle  offers  a  brilliant  and  comprehensive  explana- 
tion of  our  interest  in  tragedy.  And  what  is  of  course  most  impor- 
tant of  all — it  is  a  point  to  which  I  shall  return — Freud,  by  the 
whole  tendency  of  his  psychology,  establishes  the  naturalness  of 
artistic  thought.  Indeed,  it  is  possible  to  say  of  Freud  that  he  ulti- 
mately did  more  for  our  understanding  of  art  than  any  other  writer 
since  Aristotle;  and  this  being  so,  it  can  only  be  surprising  that  in 
his  early  work  he  should  have  made  the  error  of  treating  the  artist 
as  a  neurotic  who  escapes  from  reality  by  means  of  "substitute 
gratifications." 

As  Freud  went  forward  he  insisted  less  on  this  simple  formula- 
tion. Certainly  it  did  not  have  its  original  force  with  him  when,  at 
his  seventieth  birthday  celebration,  he  disclaimed  the  right  to  be 
called  the  discoverer  of  the  unconscious,  saying  that  whatever  he  may 
have  done  for  the  systematic  understanding  of  the  unconscious,  the 
credit  for  its  discovery  properly  belonged  to  the  literary  masters. 
And  psychoanalysis  has  inherited  from  him  a  tenderness  for  art 
which  is  real  although  sometimes  clumsy,  and  nowadays  most  psy- 
choanalysts of  any  personal  sensitivity  are  embarrassed  by  occa- 


504  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

sions  which  seem  to  lead  them  to  reduce  art  to  a  formula  of  mental 
illness.  Nevertheless  Freud's  early  belief  in  the  essential  neuroti- 
cism  of  the  artist  found  an  all  too  fertile  ground — found,  we  might 
say,  the  very  ground  from  which  it  first  sprang,  for,  when  he  spoke 
of  the  artist  as  a  neurotic,  Freud  was  adopting  one  of  the  popular 
beliefs  of  his  age.  Most  readers  will  see  this  belief  as  the  expression 
of  the  industrial  rationalization  and  the  bourgeois  philistinism  of 
the  nineteenth  century.  In  this  they  are  partly  right.  The  nineteenth 
century  established  the  basic  virtue  of  "getting  up  at  eight,  shaving 
close  at  a  quarter-past,  breakfasting  at  nine,  going  to  the  City  at 
ten,  coming  home  at  half-past  five,  and  dining  at  seven."  The 
Messrs.  Podsnap  who  instituted  this  scheduled  morality  inevitably 
decreed  that  the  arts  must  celebrate  it  and  nothing  else.  "Nothing 
else  to  be  permitted  to  these  .  .  .  vagrants  the  Arts,  on  pain  of 
excommunication.  Nothing  else  To  Be — anywhere!"  We  observe 
that  the  virtuous  day  ends  with  dinner — bed  and  sleep  are  naturally 
not  part  of  the  Reality  that  Is,  and  nothing  must  be  set  forth  which 
will,  as  Mr.  Podsnap  put  it,  bring  a  Blush  to  the  Cheek  of  a  Young 
Person. 

The  excommunication  of  the  arts,  when  it  was  found  necessary, 
took  the  form  of  pronouncing  the  artist  mentally  degenerate,  a 
device  which  eventually  found  its  theorist  in  Max  Nordau.  In  the 
history  of  the  arts  this  is  new.  The  poet  was  always  known  to  be- 
long to  a  touchy  tribe — genus  irritabile  was  a  tag  anyone  would 
know — and  ever  since  Plato  the  process  of  the  inspired  imagina- 
tion, as  we  have  said,  was  thought  to  be  a  special  one  of  some  in- 
terest, which  the  similitude  of  madness  made  somewhat  intelligible. 
But  this  is  not  quite  to  say  that  the  poet  was  the  victim  of  actual 
mental  aberration.  The  eighteenth  century  did  not  find  the  poet  to 
be  less  than  other  men,  and  certainly  the  Renaissance  did  not.  If  he 
was  a  professional,  there  might  be  condescension  to  his  social 
status,  but  in  a  time  which  deplored  all  professionalism  whatever, 
this  was  simply  a  way  of  asserting  the  high  value  of  poetry,  which 
ought  not  to  be  compromised  by  trade.  And  a  certain  good  nature 
marked  even  the  snubbing  of  the  professional.  At  any  rate,  no  one 
was  likely  to  identify  the  poet  with  the  weakling.  Indeed,  the  Ren- 


Art  and  Neurosis  505 

aissance  ideal  held  poetry  to  be,  like  arms  or  music,  one  of  the 
signs  of  manly  competence. 

The  change  from  this  view  of  things  cannot  be  blamed  wholly 
on  the  bourgeois  or  philistine  public.  Some  of  the  "blame"  must 
rest  with  the  poets  themselves.  The  Romantic  poets  were  as  proud 
of  their  art  as  the  vaunting  poets  of  the  sixteenth  century,  but  one 
of  them  talked  with  an  angel  in  a  tree  and  insisted  that  Hell  was 
better  than  Heaven  and  sexuality  holier  than  chastity;  another  told 
the  world  that  he  wanted  to  lie  down  like  a  tired  child  and  weep 
away  this  life  of  care;  another  asked  so  foolish  a  question  as  "Why 
did  I  laugh  tonight?";  and  yet  another  explained  that  he  had  writ- 
ten one  of  his  best  poems  in  a  drugged  sleep.  The  public  took  them 
all  at  their  word — they  were  not  as  other  men.  Zola,  in  the  interests 
of  science,  submitted  himself  to  examination  by  fifteen  psychiatrists 
and  agreed  with  their  conclusion  that  his  genius  had  its  source  in 
the  neurotic  elements  of  his  temperament.  Baudelaire,  Rimbaud, 
Verlaine  found  virtue  and  strength  in  their  physical  and  mental 
illness  and  pain.  W.  H.  Auden  addresses  his  "wound"  in  the  cher- 
ishing language  of  a  lover,  thanking  it  for  the  gift  of  insight  it 
has  bestowed.  "Knowing  you,"  he  says,  "has  made  me  under- 
stand." And  Edmund  Wilson  in  his  striking  phrase,  "the  wound 
and  the  bow,"  has  formulated  for  our  time  the  idea  of  the  charac- 
teristic sickness  of  the  artist,  which  he  represents  by  the  figure  of 
Philoctetes,  the  Greek  warrior  who  was  forced  to  live  in  isolation 
because  of  the  disgusting  odor  of  a  suppurating  wound  and  who 
yet  had  to  be  sought  out  by  his  countrymen  because  they  had  need 
of  the  magically  unerring  bow  he  possessed. 

The  myth  of  the  sick  artist,  we  may  suppose,  has  established 
itself  because  it  is  of  advantage  to  the  various  groups  who  have 
one  or  another  relation  with  art.  To  the  artist  himself  the  myth 
gives  some  of  the  ancient  powers  and  privileges  of  the  idiot  and 
the  fool,  half-prophetic  creatures,  or  of  the  mutilated  priest.  That 
the  artist's  neurosis  may  be  but  a  mask  is  suggested  by  Thomas 
Mann's  pleasure  in  representing  his  untried  youth  as  "sick"  but 
his  successful  maturity  as  senatorially  robust.  By  means  of  his  be 
lief  in  his  own  sickness,  the  artist  may  the  more  easily  fulfill  his 


506  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

chosen,  and  assigned,  function  of  putting  himself  into  connection 
with  the  forces  of  spirituality  and  morality;  the  artist  sees  as  insane 
the  "normal"  and  "healthy"  ways  of  established  society,  while 
aberration  and  illness  appear  as  spiritual  and  moral  health  if  only 
because  they  controvert  the  ways  of  respectable  society. 

Then  too,  the  myth  has  its  advantage  for  the  philistine — a  double 
advantage.  On  the  one  hand,  the  belief  in  the  artist's  neuroticism 
allows  the  philistine  to  shut  his  ears  to  what  the  artist  says.  But 
on  the  other  hand  it  allows  him  to  listen.  For  we  must  not  make 
the  common  mistake — the  contemporary  philistine  does  want  to 
listen,  at  the  same  time  that  he  wants  to  shut  his  ears.  By  suppos- 
ing that  the  artist  has  an  interesting  but  not  always  reliable  relation 
to  reality,  he  is  able  to  contain  (in  the  military  sense)  what  the 
artist  tells  him.  If  he  did  not  want  to  listen  at  all,  he  would  say 
"insane";  with  "neurotic,"  which  hedges,  he  listens  when  he 
chooses. 

And  in  addition  to  its  advantage  to  the  artist  and  to  the  philis- 
tine, we  must  take  into  account  the  usefulness  of  the  myth  to  a 
third  group,  the  group  of  "sensitive"  people,  who,  although  not 
artists,  are  not  philistines  either.  These  people  form  a  group  by 
virtue  of  their  passive  impatience  with  philistinism,  and  also  by 
virtue  of  their  awareness  of  their  own  emotional  pain  and  uncer- 
tainty. To  these  people  the  myth  of  the  sick  artist  is  the  institutional 
sanction  of  their  situation;  they  seek  to  approximate  or  acquire  the 
character  of  the  artist,  sometimes  by  planning  to  work  or  even 
attempting  to  work  as  the  artist  does,  always  by  making  a  connec- 
tion between  their  own  powers  of  mind  and  their  consciousness  of 
"difference"  and  neurotic  illness. 

The  early  attempts  of  psychoanalysis  to  deal  with  art  went  on 
the  assumption  that,  because  the  artist  was  neurotic,  the  content 
of  his  work  was  also  neurotic,  which  is  to  say  that  it  did  not  stand 
in  a  correct  relation  to  reality.  But  nowadays,  as  I  have  said,  psy- 
choanalysis is  not  likely  to  be  so  simple  in  its  transactions  with  art. 
A  good  example  of  the  psychoanalytical  development  in  this  re- 
spect is  Dr.  Saul  Rosenzweig's  well-known  essay,  "The  Ghost  of 
Henry  James."  This  is  an  admirable  piece  of  work,  marked  by 
accuracy  in  the  reporting  of  the  literary  fact  and  by  respect  for  the 


Art  and  Neurosis  507 

value  of  the  literary  object.  Although  Dr.  Rosenzweig  explores  the 
element  of  neurosis  in  James's  life  and  work,  he  nowhere  suggests 
that  this  element  in  any  way  lessens  James's  value  as  an  artist  or 
moralist.  In  effect  he  says  that  neurosis  is  a  way  of  dealing  with  real- 
ity which,  in  real  life,  is  uncomfortable  and  uneconomical,  but  that 
this  judgment  of  neurosis  in  life  cannot  mechanically  be  transferred 
to  works  of  art  upon  which  neurosis  has  had  its  influence.  He  no- 
where implies  that  a  work  of  art  in  whose  genesis  a  neurotic  ele- 
ment may  be  found  is  for  that  reason  irrelevant  or  in  any  way 
diminished  in  value.  Indeed,  the  manner  of  his  treatment  suggests, 
what  is  of  course  the  case,  that  every  neurosis  deals  with  a  real 
emotional  situation  of  the  most  intensely  meaningful  kind. 

Yet  as  Dr.  Rosenzweig  brings  his  essay  to  its  close,  he  makes 
use  of  the  current  assumption  about  the  causal  connection  between 
the  psychic  illness  of  the  artist  and  his  power.  His  investigation  of 
James,  he  says,  "reveals  the  aptness  of  the  Philoctetes  pattern." 
He  accepts  the  idea  of  "the  sacrificial  roots  of  literary  power"  and 
speaks  of  "the  unhappy  sources  of  James's  genius."  "The  broader 
application  of  the  inherent  pattern,"  he  says,  "is  familiar  to  readers 
of  Edmund  Wilson's  recent  volume  The  Wound  and  the  Bow.  .  .  . 
Reviewing  the  experience  and  work  of  several  well-known  literary 
masters,  Wilson  discloses  the  sacrificial  roots  of  their  power  on  the 
model  of  the  Greek  legend.  In  the  case  of  Henry  James,  the  present 
account  .  .  .  provides  a  similar  insight  into  the  unhappy  sources 
of  his  genius.  .  .  ." 

This  comes  as  a  surprise.  Nothing  in  Dr.  Rosenzweig's  theory 
requires  it.  For  his  theory  asserts  no  more  than  that  Henry  James, 
predisposed  by  temperament  and  family  situation  to  certain  mental 
and  emotional  qualities,  was  in  his  youth  injured  in  a  way  which 
he  believed  to  be  sexual;  that  he  unconsciously  invited  the  injury 
in  the  wish  to  identify  himself  with  his  father,  who  himself  had 
been  similarly  injured — "castrated":  a  leg  had  been  amputated — 
and  under  strikingly  similar  circumstances;  this  resulted  for  the 
younger  Henry  James  in  a  certain  pattern  of  life  and  in  a  pre- 
occupation in  his  work  with  certain  themes  which  more  or  less 
obscurely  symbolize  his  sexual  situation.  For  this  I  think  Dr. 
Rosenzweig  makes  a  sound  case.  Yet  I  submit  that  this  is  not 


508  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

the  same  thing  as  disclosing  the  roots  of  James's  power  or  discov- 
ering the  sources  of  his  genius.  The  essay  which  gives  Edmund 
Wilson's  book  its  title  and  cohering  principle  does  not  explicitly 
say  that  the  roots  of  power  are  sacrificial  and  that  the  source  of 
genius  is  unhappy.  Where  it  is  explicit,  it  states  only  that  "genius 
and  disease,  like  strength  and  mutilation,  may  be  inextricably 
bound  up  together,"  which  of  course,  on  its  face,  says  no  more 
than  that  personality  is  integral  and  not  made  up  of  detachable 
parts;  and  from  this  there  is  no  doubt  to  be  drawn  the  important 
practical  and  moral  implication  that  we  cannot  judge  or  dismiss  a 
man's  genius  and  strength  because  of  our  awareness  of  his  disease 
or  mutilation.  The  Philoctetes  legend  in  itself  does  not  suggest 
anything  beyond  this.  It  does  not  suggest  that  the  wound  is  the 
price  of  the  bow,  or  that  without  the  wound  the  bow  may  not  be 
possessed  or  drawn.  Yet  Dr.  Rosenzweig  has  accurately  summa- 
rized the  force  and,  I  think,  the  intention  of  Mr.  Wilson's  whole 
book;  its  several  studies  do  seem  to  say  that  effectiveness  in  the 
arts  does  depend  on  sickness. 

An  examination  of  this  prevalent  idea  might  well  begin  with  the 
observation  of  how  pervasive  and  deeply  rooted  is  the  notion  that 
power  may  be  gained  by  suffering.  Even  at  relatively  high  stages 
of  culture  the  mind  seems  to  take  easily  to  the  primitive  belief  that 
pain  and  sacrifice  are  connected  with  strength.  Primitive  beliefs 
must  be  treated  with  respectful  alertness  to  their  possible  truth  and 
also  with  the  suspicion  of  their  being  magical  and  irrational,  and  it 
is  worth  noting  on  both  sides  of  the  question,  and  in  the  light  of 
what  we  have  said  about  the  ambiguous  relation  of  the  neurosis 
to  reality,  that  the  whole  economy  of  the  neurosis  is  based  exactly 
on  this  idea  of  the  quid  pro  quo  of  sacrificial  pain:  the  neurotic 
person  unconsciously  subscribes  to  a  system  whereby  he  gives  up 
some  pleasure  or  power,  or  inflicts  pain  on  himself  in  order  to 
secure  some  other  power  or  some  other  pleasure. 

In  the  ingrained  popular  conception  of  the  relation  between 
suffering  and  power  there  are  actually  two  distinct  although  related 
ideas.  One  is  that  there  exists  in  the  individual  a  fund  of  power 
which  has  outlets  through  various  organs  or  faculties,  and  that  if 
its  outlet  through  one  organ  or  faculty  be  prevented,  it  will  flow 


Art  and  Neurosis  509 

to  increase  the  force  or  sensitivity  of  another.  Thus  it  is  popularly 
believed  that  the  sense  of  touch  is  intensified  in  the  blind  not  so 
much  by  the  will  of  the  blind  person  to  adapt  himself  to  the  neces- 
sities of  his  situation  as,  rather,  by  a  sort  of  mechanical  redistribu- 
tion of  power.  And  this  idea  would  seem  to  explain,  if  not  the 
origin  of  the  ancient  mutilation  of  priests,  then  at  least  a  common 
understanding  of  their  sexual  sacrifice. 

The  other  idea  is  that  a  person  may  be  taught  by,  or  proved  by, 
the  endurance  of  pain.  There  will  easily  come  to  mind  the  ritual 
suffering  that  is  inflicted  at  the  tribal  initiation  of  youths  into  full 
manhood  or  at  the  admission  of  the  apprentice  into  the  company 
of  journeyman  adepts.  This  idea  in  sophisticated  form  found  its 
way  into  high  religion  at  least  as  early  as  Aeschylus,  who  held  that 
man  achieves  knowledge  of  God  through  suffering,  and  it  was  from 
the  beginning  an  important  element  of  Christian  thought.  In  the 
nineteenth  century  the  Christianized  notion  of  the  didactic  suffer- 
ing of  the  artist  went  along  with  the  idea  of  his  mental  degenera- 
tion and  even  served  as  a  sort  of  countermyth  to  it.  Its  doctrine 
was  that  the  artist,  a  man  of  strength  and  health,  experienced  and 
suffered,  and  thus  learned  both  the  facts  of  life  and  his  artistic  craft. 
"I  am  the  man,  I  suffered,  I  was  there,"  ran  his  boast,  and  he 
derived  his  authority  from  the  knowledge  gained  through  suffering. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  both  these  ideas  represent  a  measure 
of  truth  about  mental  and  emotional  power.  The  idea  of  didactic 
suffering  expresses  a  valuation  of  experience  and  of  steadfastness. 
The  idea  of  natural  compensation  for  the  sacrifice  of  some  faculty 
also  says  something  that  can  be  rationally  defended:  one  cannot 
be  and  do  everything  and  the  whole-hearted  absorption  in  any 
enterprise,  art  for  example,  means  that  we  must  give  up  other  possi- 
bilities, even  parts  of  ourselves.  And  there  is  even  a  certain  validity 
to  the  belief  that  the  individual  has  a  fund  of  undifferentiated 
energy  which  presses  the  harder  upon  what  outlets  are  available 
to  it  when  it  has  been  deprived  of  the  normal  number. 

Then,  in  further  defense  of  the  belief  that  artistic  power  is  con- 
nected with  neurosis,  we  can  say  that  there  is  no  doubt  that  what 
we  call  mental  illness  may  be  the  source  of  psychic  knowledge. 
Some  neurotic  people,  because  they  are  more  apprehensive  than 


510  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

normal  people,  are  able  to  see  more  of  certain  parts  of  reality  and 
to  see  them  with  more  intensity.  And  many  neurotic  or  psychotic 
patients  are  in  certain  respects  in  closer  touch  with  the  actualities 
of  the  unconscious  than  are  normal  people.  Further,  the  expression 
of  a  neurotic  or  psychotic  conception  of  reality  is  likely  to  be  more 
intense  than  a  normal  one. 

Yet  when  we  have  said  all  this,  it  is  still  wrong,  I  believe,  to  find 
the  root  of  the  artist's  power  and  the  source  of  his  genius  in  neu- 
rosis. To  the  idea  that  literary  power  and  genius  spring  from  pain 
and  neurotic  sacrifice  there  are  two  major  objections.  The  first  has 
to  do  with  the  assumed  uniqueness  of  the  artist  as  a  subject  of 
psychoanalytical  explanation.  The  second  has  to  do  with  the  true 
meaning  of  power  and  genius. 

One  reason  why  writers  are  considered  to  be  more  available  than 
other  people  to  psychoanalytical  explanation  is  that  they  tell  us 
what  is  going  on  inside  them.  Even  when  they  do  not  make  an 
actual  diagnosis  of  their  malaises  or  describe  "symptoms,"  we 
must  bear  it  in  mind  that  it  is  their  profession  to  deal  with  fantasy 
in  some  form  or  other.  It  is  in  the  nature  of  the  writer's  job  that 
he  exhibit  his  unconscious.  He  may  disguise  it  in  various  ways, 
but  disguise  is  not  concealment.  Indeed,  it  may  be  said  that  the 
more  a  writer  takes  pains  with  his  work  to  remove  it  from  the 
personal  and  subjective,  the  more — and  not  the  less — he  will  ex- 
press his  true  unconscious,  although  not  what  passes  with  most 
for  the  unconscious. 

Further,  the  writer  is  likely  to  be  a  great  hand  at  personal  letters, 
diaries,  and  autobiographies:  indeed,  almost  the  only  good  auto- 
biographies are  those  of  writers.  The  writer  is  more  aware  of  what 
happens  to  him  or  goes  on  in  him  and  often  finds  it  necessary  or 
useful  to  be  articulate  about  his  inner  states,  and  prides  himself  on 
telling  the  truth.  Thus,  only  a  man  as  devoted  to  the  truth  of  the 
emotions  as  Henry  James  was  would  have  informed  the  world, 
despite  his  characteristic  reticence,  of  an  accident  so  intimate  as 
his.  We  must  not  of  course  suppose  that  a  writer's  statements  about 
his  intimate  life  are  equivalent  to  true  statements  about  his  uncon- 
scious, which,  by  definition,  he  doesn't  consciously  know;  but  they 
may  be  useful  clues  to  the  nature  of  an  entity  about  which  we 


A  rt  and  Neurosis  511 

can  make  statements  of  more  or  less  cogency,  although  never  state- 
ments of  certainty;  or  they  at  least  give  us  what  is  surely  related  to 
a  knowledge  of  his  unconscious — that  is,  an  insight  into  his  per- 
sonality.1 

But  while  the  validity  of  dealing  with  the  writer's  intellectual 
life  in  psychoanalytical  terms  is  taken  for  granted,  the  psychoana- 
lytical explanation  of  the  intellectual  life  of  scientists  is  generally 
speaking  not  countenanced.  The  old  myth  of  the  mad  scientist, 
with  the  exception  of  an  occasional  mad  psychiatrist,  no  longer 
exists.  The  social  position  of  science  requires  that  it  should  cease, 
which  leads  us  to  remark  that  those  partisans  of  art  who  insist  on 
explaining  artistic  genius  by  means  of  psychic  imbalance  are  in 
effect  capitulating  to  the  dominant  mores  which  hold  that  the  mem- 
bers of  the  respectable  professions  are,  however  dull  they  may  be, 
free  from  neurosis.  Scientists,  to  continue  with  them  as  the  best 
example  of  the  respectable  professions,  do  not  usually  give  us  the 
clues  to  their  personalities  which  writers  habitually  give.  But  no 
one  who  has  ever  lived  observantly  among  scientists  will  claim  that 
they  are  without  an  unconscious  or  even  that  they  are  free  from 
neurosis.  How  often,  indeed,  it  is  apparent  that  the  devotion  to 
science,  if  it  cannot  be  called  a  neurotic  manifestation,  at  least  can 
be  understood  as  going  very  cozily  with  neurotic  elements  in  the 
temperament,  such  as,  for  example,  a  marked  compulsiveness.  Of 
scientists  as  a  group  we  can  say  that  they  are  less  concerned  with 
the  manifestations  of  personality,  their  own  or  others',  than  are 
writers  as  a  group.  But  this  relative  indifference  is  scarcely  a  sign 
of  normality — indeed,  if  we  choose  to  regard  it  with  the  same  sort 
of  eye  with  which  the  characteristics  of  writers  are  regarded,  we 
might  say  the  indifference  to  matters  of  personality  is  in  itself  a 
suspicious  evasion. 

It  is  the  basic  assumption  of  psychoanalysis  that  the  acts  of 
every  person  are  influenced  by  the  forces  of  the  unconscious.  Scien- 
tists, bankers,  lawyers,  or  surgeons,  by  reason  of  the  traditions 
of  their  professions,  practice  concealment  and  conformity;  but  it  is 
difficult  to  believe  that  an  investigation  according  to  psychoanalyti- 
cal principles  would  fail  to  show  that  the  strains  and  imbalances 
of  their  psyches  are  not  of  the  same  frequency  as  those  of  writers, 


512  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

and  of  similar  kind.  I  do  not  mean  that  everybody  has  the  same 
troubles  and  identical  psyches,  but  only  that  there  is  no  special 
category  for  writers.2 

If  this  is  so,  and  if  we  still  want  to  relate  the  writer's  power  to 
his  neurosis,  we  must  be  willing  to  relate  all  intellectual  power  to 
neurosis.  We  must  find  the  roots  of  Newton's  power  in  his  emo- 
tional extravagances,  and  the  roots  of  Darwin's  power  in  his  sorely 
neurotic  temperament,  and  the  roots  of  Pascal's  mathematical 
genius  in  the  impulses  which  drove  him  to  extreme  religious  mas- 
ochism— I  choose  but  the  classic  examples.  If  we  make  the  neurosis- 
power  equivalence  at  all,  we  must  make  it  in  every  field  of  en- 
deavor. Logician,  economist,  botanist,  physicist,  theologian — no 
profession  may  be  so  respectable  or  so  remote  or  so  rational  as  to 
be  exempt  from  the  psychological  interpretation.3 

Further,  not  only  power  but  also  failure  or  limitation  must 
be  accounted  for  by  the  theory  of  neurosis,  and  not  merely  failure 
or  limitation  in  life  but  even  failure  or  limitation  in  art.  Thus  it  is 
often  said  that  the  warp  of  Dostoevsky's  mind  accounts  for  the 
brilliance  of  his  psychological  insights.  But  it  is  never  said  that  the 
same  warp  of  Dostoevsky's  mind  also  accounted  for  his  deficiency 
in  insight.  Freud,  who  greatly  admired  Dostoevsky,  although  he  did 
not  like  him,  observed  that  "his  insight  was  entirely  restricted 
to  the  workings  of  the  abnormal  psyche.  Consider  his  astounding 
helplessness  before  the  phenomenon  of  love;  he  really  only  under- 
stands either  crude,  instinctive  desire  or  masochistic  submission  or 
love  from  pity."  4  This,  we  must  note,  is  not  merely  Freud's  com- 
ment on  the  extent  of  the  province  which  Dostoevsky  chose  for  his 
own,  but  on  his  failure  to  understand  what,  given  the  province  of 
his  choice,  he  might  be  expected  to  understand. 

And  since  neurosis  can  account  not  only  for  intellectual  success 
and  for  failure  or  limitation  but  also  for  mediocrity,  we  have  most 
of  society  involved  in  neurosis.  To  this  I  have  no  objection — I 
think  most  of  society  is  indeed  involved  in  neurosis.  But  with  neu- 
rosis accounting  for  so  much,  it  cannot  be  made  exclusively  to 
account  for  one  man's  literary  power. 

We  have  now  to  consider  what  is  meant  by  genius  when  its 
source  is  identified  as  the  sacrifice  and  pain  of  neurosis. 


A  rt  and  Neurosis  513 

In  the  case  of  Henry  James,  the  reference  to  the  neurosis  of 
his  personal  life  does  indeed  tell  us  something  about  the  latent 
intention  of  his  work  and  thus  about  the  reason  for  some  large 
part  of  its  interest  for  us.  But  if  genius  and  its  source  are  what  we 
are  dealing  with,  we  must  observe  that  the  reference  to  neurosis 
tells  us  nothing  about  James's  passion,  energy,  and  devotion,  noth- 
ing about  his  architectonic  skill,  nothing  about  the  other  themes 
that  were  important  to  him  which  are  not  connected  with  his  un- 
conscious concern  with  castration.  We  cannot,  that  is,  make  the 
writer's  inner  life  exactly  equivalent  to  his  power  of  expressing  it. 
Let  us  grant  for  the  sake  of  argument  that  the  literary  genius,  as 
distinguished  from  other  men,  is  the  victim  of  a  "mutilation"  and 
that  his  fantasies  are  neurotic.5  It  does  not  then  follow  as  the  inevi- 
table next  step  that  his  ability  to  express  these  fantasies  and  to 
impress  us  with  them  is  neurotic,  for  that  ability  is  what  we  mean 
by  his  genius.  Anyone  might  be  injured  as  Henry  James  was,  and 
even  respond  within  himself  to  the  injury  as  James  is  said  to  have 
done,  and  yet  not  have  his  literary  power. 

The  reference  to  the  artist's  neurosis  tells  us  something  about 
the  material  on  which  the  artist  exercises  his  powers,  and  even 
something  about  his  reasons  for  bringing  his  powers  into  play, 
but  it  does  not  tell  us  anything  about  the  source  of  his  power,  it 
makes  no  causal  connection  between  them  and  the  neurosis.  And 
if  we  look  into  the  matter,  we  see  that  there  is  in  fact  no  causal 
connection  between  them.  For,  still  granting  that  the  poet  is 
uniquely  neurotic,  what  is  surely  not  neurotic,  what  indeed  suggests 
nothing  but  health,  is  his  power  of  using  his  neuroticism.  He  shapes 
his  fantasies,  he  gives  them  social  form  and  reference.  Charles 
Lamb's  way  of  putting  this  cannot  be  improved.  Lamb  is  denying 
that  genius  is  allied  to  insanity;  for  "insanity"  the  modern  reader 
may  substitute  "neurosis."  "The  ground  of  the  mistake,"  he  says, 
"is,  that  men,  finding  in  the  raptures  of  the  higher  poetry  a  condi- 
tion of  exaltation,  to  which  they  have  no  parallel  in  their  own  ex- 
perience, besides  the  spurious  resemblance  of  it  in  dreams  and 
fevers,  impute  a  state  of  dreaminess  and  fever  to  the  poet.  But  the 
true  poet  dreams  being  awake.  He  is  not  possessed  by  his  subject 
but  has  dominion  over  it.  .  .  .  Where  he  seems  most  to  recede  from 


514  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

humanity,  he  will  be  found  the  truest  to  it.  From  beyond  the  scope 
of  nature  if  he  summon  possible  existences,  he  subjugates  them  to 
the  law  of  her  consistency.  He  is  beautifully  loyal  to  that  sovereign 
directress,  when  he  appears  most  to  betray  and  desert  her.  .  .  . 
Herein  the  great  and  the  little  wits  are  differenced;  that  if  the  latter 
wander  ever  so  little  from  nature  or  natural  existence,  they  lose 
themselves  and  their  readers.  . . .  They  do  not  create,  which  implies 
shaping  and  consistency.  Their  imaginations  are  not  active — for 
to  be  active  is  to  call  something  into  act  and  form — but  passive  as 
men  in  sick  dreams." 

The  activity  of  the  artist,  we  must  remember,  may  be  approxi- 
mated by  many  who  are  themselves  not  artists.  Thus,  the  expres- 
sions of  many  schizophrenic  people  have  the  intense  appearance  of 
creativity  and  an  inescapable  interest  and  significance.  But  they 
are  not  works  of  art,  and  although  Van  Gogh  may  have  been 
schizophrenic  he  was  in  addition  an  artist.  Again,  as  I  have  already 
suggested,  it  is  not  uncommon  in  our  society  for  certain  kinds  of 
neurotic  people  to  imitate  the  artist  in  his  life  and  even  in  his  ideals 
and  ambitions.  They  follow  the  artist  in  everything  except  success- 
ful performance.  It  was,  I  think,  Otto  Rank  who  called  such  people 
half-artists  and  confirmed  the  diagnosis  of  their  neuroticism  at  the 
same  time  that  he  differentiated  them  from  true  artists. 

Nothing  is  so  characteristic  of  the  artist  as  his  power  of  shap- 
ing his  work,  of  subjugating  his  raw  material,  however  aberrant  it 
be  from  what  we  call  normality,  to  the  consistency  of  nature.  It 
would  be  possible  to  deny  that  whatever  disease  or  mutilation  the 
artist  may  suffer  is  an  element  of  his  production  which  has  its 
effect  on  every  part  of  it,  but  disease  and  mutilation  are  available 
to  us  all — life  provides  them  with  prodigal  generosity.  What  marks 
the  artist  is  his  power  to  shape  the  material  of  pain  we  all  have. 

At  this  point,  with  our  recognition  of  life's  abundant  provision 
of  pain,  we  are  at  the  very  heart  of  our  matter,  which  is  the  mean- 
ing we  may  assign  to  neurosis  and  the  relation  we  are  to  suppose 
it  to  have  with  normality.  Here  Freud  himself  can  be  of  help, 
although  it  must  be  admitted  that  what  he  tells  us  may  at  first  seem 
somewhat  contradictory  and  confusing. 

Freud's  study  of  Leonardo  da  Vinci  is  an  attempt  to  understand 


A  rt  and  Neurosis  515 

why  Leonardo  was  unable  to  pursue  his  artistic  enterprises,  feeling 
compelled  instead  to  advance  his  scientific  investigations.  The  cause 
of  this  Freud  traces  back  to  certain  childhood  experiences  not  dif- 
ferent in  kind  from  the  experiences  which  Dr.  Rosenzweig  adduces 
to  account  for  certain  elements  in  the  work  of  Henry  James.  And 
when  he  has  completed  his  study  Freud  makes  this  caveat:  "Let  us 
expressly  emphasize  that  we  have  never  considered  Leonardo  as  a 
neurotic.  .  .  .  We  no  longer  believe  that  health  and  disease,  normal 
and  nervous,  are  sharply  distinguished  from  each  other.  We  know 
today  that  neurotic  symptoms  are  substitutive  formations  for  cer- 
tain repressive  acts  which  must  result  in  the  course  of  our  develop- 
ment from  the  child  to  the  cultural  man,  that  we  all  produce  such 
substitutive  formations,  and  that  only  the  amount,  intensity,  and 
distribution  of  these  substitutive  formations  justify  the  practical 
conception  of  illness.  .  .  ."  The  statement  becomes  the  more  strik- 
ing when  we  remember  that  in  the  course  of  his  study  Freud  has 
had  occasion  to  observe  that  Leonardo  was  both  homosexual  and 
sexually  inactive.  I  am  not  sure  that  the  statement  that  Leonardo 
was  not  a  neurotic  is  one  that  Freud  would  have  made  at  every 
point  in  the  later  development  of  psychoanalysis,  yet  it  is  in  con- 
formity with  his  continuing  notion  of  the  genesis  of  culture.  And 
the  practical,  the  quantitative  or  economic,  conception  of  illness  he 
insists  on  in  a  passage  in  the  Introductory  Lectures.  "The  neurotic 
symptoms,"  he  says,  ".  .  .  are  activities  which  are  detrimental,  or  at 
least  useless,  to  life  as  a  whole;  the  person  concerned  frequently 
complains  of  them  as  obnoxious  to  him  or  they  involve  suffering 
and  distress  for  him.  The  principal  injury  they  inflict  lies  in  the 
expense  of  energy  they  entail,  and,  besides  this,  in  the  energy 
needed  to  combat  them.  Where  the  symptoms  are  extensively  de- 
veloped, these  two  kinds  of  effort  may  exact  such  a  price  that  the 
person  suffers  a  very  serious  impoverishment  in  available  mental 
energy  which  consequently  disables  him  for  all  the  important  tasks 
of  life.  This  result  depends  principally  upon  the  amount  of  energy 
taken  up  in  this  way;  therefore  you  will  see  that  'illness'  is  essen- 
tially a  practical  conception.  But  if  you  look  at  the  matter  from  a 
theoretical  point  of  view  and  ignore  this  question  of  degree,  you 
can  very  well  see  that  we  are  all  ill,  i.e.,  neurotic;  for  the  conditions 


516  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

required  for  symptom-formation  are  demonstrable  also  in  normal 
persons." 

We  are  all  ill:  the  statement  is  grandiose,  and  its  implications — 
the  implications,  that  is,  of  understanding  the  totality  of  human 
nature  in  the  terms  of  disease — are  vast.  These  implications  have 
never  been  properly  met  (although  I  believe  that  a  few  theologians 
have  responded  to  them),  but  this  is  not  the  place  to  attempt  to 
meet  them.  I  have  brought  forward  Freud's  statement  of  the  essen- 
tial sickness  of  the  psyche  only  because  it  stands  as  the  refutation 
of  what  is  implied  by  the  literary  use  of  the  theory  of  neurosis  to 
account  for  genius.  For  if  we  are  ill,  and  if,  as  I  have  said,  neurosis 
can  account  for  everything,  for  failure  and  mediocrity — "a  very 
serious  impoverishment  of  available  mental  energy" — as  well  as 
for  genius,  it  cannot  uniquely  account  for  genius. 

This,  however,  is  not  to  say  that  there  is  no  connection  between 
neurosis  and  genius,  which  would  be  tantamount,  as  we  see,  to 
saying  that  there  is  no  connection  between  human  nature  and 
genius.  But  the  connection  lies  wholly  in  a  particular  and  special 
relation  which  the  artist  has  to  neurosis. 

In  order  to  understand  what  this  particular  and  special  connec- 
tion is  we  must  have  clearly  in  mind  what  neurosis  is.  The  current 
literary  conception  of  neurosis  as  a  wound  is  quite  misleading.  It 
inevitably  suggests  passivity,  whereas,  if  we  follow  Freud,  we  must 
understand  a  neurosis  to  be  an  activity,  an  activity  with  a  purpose, 
.and  a  particular  kind  of  activity,  ^conflict.  This  is  not  t^  say  that- 
there  are  no  abnormal  mental  states  which  are  not  conflicts.  There 
are;  the  struggle  between  elements  of  the  unconscious  may  never 
be  instituted  in  the  first  place,  or  it  may  be  called  off.  As  Freud 
says  in  a  passage  which  follows  close  upon  the  one  I  last  quoted, 
"If  regressions  do  not  call  forth  a  prohibition  on  the  part  of  the 
ego,  no  neurosis  results;  the  libido  succeeds  in  obtaining  a  real,  al- 
though not  a  normal,  satisfaction.  But  if  the  ego  ...  is  not  in  agree- 
ment with  these  regressions,  conflict  ensues."  And  in  his  essay  on 
Dostoevsky  Freud  says  that  "there  are  no  neurotic  complete  mas- 
ochists,"  by  which  he  means  that  the  ego  which  gives  way  com- 
pletely to  masochism  (or  to  any  other  pathological  excess)  has 
passed  beyond  neurosis;  the  conflict  has  ceased,  but  at  the  cost  of 


A  rt  and  Neurosis  517 

the  defeat  of  the  ego,  and  now  some  other  name  than  that  of  neu- 
rosis must  be  given  to  the  condition  of  the  person  who  thus  takes 
himself  beyond  the  pain  of  the  neurotic  conflict.  To  understand  this 
is  to  become  aware  of  the  curious  complacency  with  which  literary 
men  regard  mental  disease.  The  psyche  of  the  neurotic  is  not 
equally  complacent;  it  regards  with  the  greatest  fear  the  chaotic 
and  destructive  forces  it  contains,  and  it  struggles  fiercely  to  keep 
them  at  bay.6 

We  come  then  to  a  remarkable  paradox:  we  are  all  ill,  but  we 
are  ill  in  the  service  of  health,  or  ill  in  the  service  of  life,  or,  at 
the  very  least,  ill  in  the  service  of  life-in-curture.  The  form  of  the 
mind's  dynamics  is  that  of  the  neurosis,  which  is  to  be  understood 
as  the  ego's  struggle  against  being  overcome  by  the  forces  with 
which  it  coexists,  and  the  strategy  of  this  conflict  requires  that  the 
ego  shall  incur  pain  and  make*sacrifices  of  itself,  at  the  same  time 
seeing  to  it  that  its  pain  and  sacrifice  be  as  small  as  they  may. 

But  this  is  characteristic  of  all  minds :  no  mind  is  exempt  except 
those  which  refuse  the  conflict  or  withdraw  from  it;  and  we  ask 
wherein  the  mind  of  the  artist  is  unique.  If  he  is  not  unique  in 
neurosis,  is  he  then  unique  in  the  significance  and  intensity  of  his 
neurosis?  I  do  not  believe  that  we  shall  go  more  than  a  little  way 
toward  a  definition  of  artistic  genius  by  answering  this  question 
affirmatively.  A  neurotic  conflict  cannot  ever  be  either  meaningless 
or  merely  personal;  it  must  be  understood  as  exemplifying  cultural 
forces  of  great  moment,  and  this  is  true  of  any  neurotic  conflict  at 
all.  To  be  sure,  some  neuroses  may  be  more  interesting  than  others, 
perhaps  because  they  are  fiercer  or  more  inclusive;  and  no  doubt 
the  writer  who  makes  a  claim  upon  our  interest  is  a  man  who  by 
reason  of  the  energy  and  significance  of  the  forces  in  struggle  within 
him  provides  us  with  the  largest  representation  of  the  culture  in 
which  we,  with  him,  are  involved;  his  neurosis  may  thus  be  thought 
of  as  having  a  connection  of  concomitance  with  his  literary  powers. 
As  Freud  says  in  the  Dostoevsky  essay,  "the  neurosis  .  .  .  comes 
into  being  all  the  more  readily  the  richer  the  complexity  which  has 
to  be  controlled  by  his  ego."  Yet  even  the  rich  complexity  which 
his  ego  is  doomed  to  control  is  not  the  definition  of  the  artist's 
genius,  for  we  can  by  no  means  say  that  the  artist  is  pre-eminent 


518  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

in  the  rich  complexity  of  elements  in  conflict  within  him.  The 
slightest  acquaintance  with  the  clinical  literature  of  psychoanalysis 
will  suggest  that  a  rich  complexity  of  struggling  elements  is  no  un- 
common possession.  And  that  same  literature  will  also  make  it 
abundantly  clear  that  the  devices  of  art — the  most  extreme  devices 
of  poetry,  for  example — are  not  particular  to  the  mind  of  the  artist 
but  are  characteristic  of  mind  itself. 

But  the  artist  is  indeed  unique  in  one  respect,  in  the  respect  of 
his  relation  to  his  neurosis.  He  is  what  he  is  by  virtue  of  his  suc- 
cessful objectification  of  his  neurosis,  by  his  shaping  it  and  making 
it  available  to  others  in  a  way  which  has  its  effect  upon  their  own 
egos  in  struggle.  His  genius,  that  is,  may  be  defined  in  terms  of 
his  faculties  of  perception,  representation,  and  realization,  and  in 
these  terms  alone.  It  can  no  more  be  defined  in  terms  of  neurosis 
than  can  his  power  of  walking  and  talking,  or  his  sexuality.  The 
use  to  which  he  puts  his  power,  or  the  manner  and  style  of  his 
power,  may  be  discussed  with  reference  to  his  particular  neurosis, 
and  so  may  such  matters  as  the  untimely  diminution  or  cessation 
of  its  exercise.  But  its  essence  is  irreducible.  It  is,  as  we  say,  a  gift. 

We  are  all  ill:  but  even  a  universal  sickness  implies  an  idea  of 
health.  Of  the  artist  we  must  say  that  whatever  elements  of  neu- 
rosis he  has  in  common  with  his  fellow  mortals,  the  one  part  of  him 
that  is  healthy,  by  any  conceivable  definition  of  health,  is  that 
which  gives  him  the  power  to  conceive,  to  plan,  to  work,  and  to 
bring  his  work  to  a  conclusion.  And  if  we  are  all  ill,  we  are  ill  by 
a  universal  accident,  not  by  a  universal  necessity,  by-  a  fault  in  the 
economy  of  our  powers,  not  by  the  nature  of  the  powers  them- 
selves.  The  Philoctetes  myth,  when  it  is  used  to  imply  a  causaT 
connection  between  the  fantasy  of  castration  and  artistic  power, 
tells  us  no  more  about  the  source  of  artistic  power  than  we  learn 
about  the  source  of  sexuality  when  the  fantasy  of  castration  is 
adduced,  for  the  fear  of  castration  may  explain  why  a  man  is 
moved  to  extravagant  exploits  of  sexuality,  but  we  do  not  say  that 
his  sexual  power  itself  derives  from  his  fear  of  castration;  and  fur- 
ther the  same  fantasy  may  also  explain  impotence  or  homosexual- 
ity. The  Philoctetes  story,  which  has  so  established  itself  among  us 
as  explaining  the  source  of  the  artist's  power,  is  not  really  an  ex- 


A  rt  and  Neurosis  519 

planatory  myth  at  all;  it  is  a  moral  myth  having  reference  to  our 
proper  behavior  in  the  circumstances  of  the  universal  accident.  In 
its  juxtaposition  of  the  wound  and  the  bow,  it  tells  us  that  we  must 
be  aware  that  weakness  does  not  preclude  strength  nor  strength 
weakness.  It  is  therefore  not  irrelevant  to  the  artist,  but  when  we 
use  it  we  will  do  well  to  keep  in  mind  the  other  myths  of  the  arts, 
recalling  what  Pan  and  Dionysius  suggest  of  the  relation  of  art  to 
physiology  and  superabundance,  remembering  that  to  Apollo  were 
attributed  the  bow  and  the  lyre,  two  strengths  together,  and  that  he 
was  given  the  lyre  by  its  inventor,  the  baby  Hermes — that  miracu- 
lous infant  who,  the  day  he  was  born,  left  his  cradle  to  do  mischief: 
and  the  first  thing  he  met  with  was  a  tortoise,  which  he  greeted 
politely  before  scooping  it  from  its  shell,  and,  thought  and  deed 
being  one  with  him,  he  contrived  the  instrument  to  which  he  sang 
"the  glorious  tale  of  his  own  begetting."  These  were  gods,  and  very 
early  ones,  but  their  myths  tell  us  something  about  the  nature  and 
source  of  art  even  in  our  grim,  late  human  present. 

1 1  am  by  no  means  in  agreement  with  the  statements  of  Dr.  Edmund 
Bergler  about  "the"  psychology  of  the  writer,  but  I  think  that  Dr.  Bergler 
has  done  good  service  in  warning  us  against  taking  at  their  face  value  a 
writer's  statements  about  himself,  the  more  especially  when  they  are 
"frank."  Thus,  to  take  Dr.  Bergler's  notable  example,  it  is  usual  for  biog- 
raphers to  accept  Stendhal's  statements  about  his  open  sexual  feelings  for 
his  mother  when  he  was  a  little  boy,  feelings  which  went  with  an  intense 
hatred  of  his  father.  But  Dr.  Bergler  believes  that  Stendhal  unconsciously 
used  his  consciousness  of  his  love  of  his  mother  and  of  his  hatred  of  his 
father  to  mask  an  unconscious  love  of  his  father,  which  frightened  him. 
("Psychoanalysis  of  Writers  and  of  Literary  Productivity,"  in  Psychoanaly- 
sis and  the  Social  Sciences,  Vol.  1.) 

2  Dr.  Bergler  believes  that  there  is  a  particular  neurosis  of  writers,  based 
on  an  oral  masochism  which  makes  them  the  enemy  of  the  respectable 
world,  courting  poverty  and  persecution.  But  a  later  development  of  Dr. 
Bergler's  theory  of  oral  masochism  makes  it  the  basic  neurosis,  not  only  of 
writers  but  of  everyone  who  is  neurotic. 

3  In  his  interesting  essay,  "Writers  and  Madness,"  in  Partisan  Review, 
January-February  1947,  William  Barrett  has  taken  issue  with  this  point  and 
has  insisted  that  a  clear  distinction  is  to  be  made  between  the  relation  that 
exists  between  the  scientist  and  his  work  and  the  relation  that  exists  between 
the  artist  and  his  work.  The  difference,  as  I  understand  it,  is  in  the  claims  of 
the  ego.  The  artist's  ego  makes  a  claim  upon  the  world  which  is  personal  in 
a  way  that  the  scientist's  is  not,  for  the  scientist,  although  he  does  indeed 
want  prestige  and  thus  "responds  to  one  of  the  deepest  urges  of  his  ego,  it 
is  only  that  his  prestige  may  come  to  attend  his  person  through  the  public 


520  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

world  of  other  men;  and  it  is  not  in  the  end  his  own  being  that  is  exhibited  or 
his  own  voice  that  is  heard  in  the  learned  report  to  the  Academy."  Actually, 
however,  as  is  suggested  by  the  sense  which  mathematicians  have  of  the 
style  of  mathematical  thought,  the  creation  of  the  abstract  thinker  is  as 
deeply  involved  as  the  artist's — see  An  Essay  on  the  Psychology  of  Inven- 
tion in  the  Mathematical  Field  by  Jacques  Hadamard,  Princeton  University 
Press,  1945 — and  he  quite  as  much  as  the  artist  seeks  to  impose  himself,  to 
express  himself.  I  am  of  course  not  maintaining  that  the  processes  of  scien- 
tific thought  are  the  same  as  those  of  artistic  thought,  or  even  that  the  sci- 
entist's creation  is  involved  with  his  total  personality  in  the  same  way  that 
the  artist's  is — I  am  maintaining  only  that  the  scientist's  creation  is  as  deeply 
implicated  with  his  total  personality  as  is  the  artist's. 

This  point  of  view  seems  to  be  supported  by  Freud's  monograph  on  Leo- 
nardo. One  of  the  problems  that  Freud  sets  himself  is  to  discover  why  an 
artist  of  the  highest  endowment  should  have  devoted  himself  more  and 
more  to  scientific  investigation,  with  the  result  that  he  was  unable  to  com- 
plete his  artistic  enterprises.  The  particular  reasons  for  this  that  Freud  as- 
signs need  not  be  gone  into  here;  all  that  I  wish  to  suggest  is  that  Freud  un- 
derstands these  reasons  to  be  the  working  out  of  an  inner  conflict,  the  at- 
tempt to  deal  with  the  difficulties  that  have  their  roots  in  the  most  primi- 
tive situations.  Leonardo's  scientific  investigations  were  as  necessary  and 
"compelled"  and  they  constituted  as  much  of  a  claim  on  the  whole  person- 
ality as  anything  the  artist  undertakes;  and  so  far  from  being  carried  out 
for  the  sake  of  public  prestige,  they  were  largely  private  and  personal,  and 
were  thought  by  the  public  of  his  time  to  be  something  very  like  insanity. 

4  From  a  letter  quoted  in  Theodor  Reik's  From  Thirty  Years  With  Freud, 
p.  175. 

5 1  am  using  the  word  fantasy,  unless  modified,  in  a  neutral  sense.  A  fan- 
tasy, in  this  sense,  may  be  distinguished  from  the  representation  of  some- 
thing that  actually  exists,  but  it  is  not  opposed  to  "reality"  and  not  an 
"escape"  from  reality.  Thus  the  idea  of  a  rational  society,  or  the  image  of 
a  good  house  to  be  built,  as  well  as  the  story  of  something  that  could  never 
really  happen,  is  a  fantasy.  There  may  be  neurotic  or  nonneurotic  fantasies. 

6  In  the  article  to  which  I  refer  in  note  3,  William  Barrett  says  that  he 
prefers  the  old-fashioned  term  "madness"  to  "neurosis."  But  it  is  not  quite 
for  him  to  choose — the  words  do  not  differ  in  fashion  but  in  meaning.  Most 
literary  people,  when  they  speak  of  mental  illness,  refer  to  neurosis.  Perhaps 
one  reason  for  this  is  that  the  neurosis  is  the  most  benign  of  the  mental  ills. 
Another  reason  is  surely  that  psychoanalytical  literature  deals  chiefly  with 
the  neurosis,  and  its  symptomatology  and  therapy  have  become  familiar; 
psychoanalysis  has  far  less  to  say  about  psychosis,  for  which  it  can  offer  far 
less  therapeutic  hope.  Further,  the  neurosis  is  easily  put  into  a  causal  con- 
nection with  the  social  maladjustments  of  our  time.  Other  forms  of  mental 
illness  of  a  more  severe  and  degenerative  kind  are  not  so  widely  recognized 
by  the  literary  person  and  are  often  assimilated  to  neurosis  with  a  resulting 
confusion.  In  the  present  essay  I  deal  only  with  the  conception  of  neurosis, 
but  this  should  not  be  taken  to  imply  that  I  believe  that  other  pathological 
mental  conditions,  including  actual  madness,  do  not  have  relevance  to  the 
general  matter  of  the  discussion. 


Edmund  Wilson 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow 


The  Philoctetes  of  Sophocles  is  far  from  being 
his  most  popular  play.  The  myth  itself  has  not  been  one  of  those 
which  have  excited  the  modern  imagination.  The  idea  of  Philoctetes' 
long  illness  and  his  banishment  to  the  bleak  island  is  dreary  or 
distasteful  to  the  young,  who  like  to  identify  themselves  with  men 
of  action — with  Heracles  or  Perseus  or  Achilles;  and  for  adults  the 
story  told  by  Sophocles  fails  to  set  off  such  emotional  charges  as 
are  liberated  by  the  crimes  of  the  Atridae  and  the  tragedies  of  the 
siege  of  Troy.  Whatever  may  have  been  dashing  in  the  legend  has 
been  lost  with  the  other  plays  and  poems  that  dealt  with  it.  Phi- 
loctetes is  hardly  mentioned  in  Homer;  and  we  have  only  an  in- 
complete account  of  the  plays  by  Aeschylus  and  Euripides,  which 
hinged  on  a  critical  moment  of  the  campaign  of  the  Greeks  at  Troy 
and  which  seem  to  have  exploited  the  emotions  of  Greek  patriot- 
ism. We  have  only  a  few  scattered  lines  and  phrases  from  that 
other  play  by  Sophocles  on  the  subject,  the  Philoctetes  at  Troy,  in 
which  the  humiliated  hero  was  presumably  to  be  cured  of  his  ulcer 
and  to  proceed  to  his  victory  over  Paris. 

There  survives  only  this  one  curious  drama  which  presents 

521 


522  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

Philoctetes  in  exile — a  drama  which  does  not  supply  us  at  all  with 
what  we  ordinarily  expect  of  Greek  tragedy,  since  it  culminates 
in  no  catastrophe,  and  which  indeed  resembles  rather  our  modern 
idea  of  a  comedy  (though  the  record  of  the  lost  plays  of  Sophocles 
shows  that  there  must  have  been  others  like  it).  Its  interest  de- 
pends almost  as  much  on  the  latent  interplay  of  character,  on  a 
gradual  psychological  conflict,  as  that  of  Le  Misanthrope.  And 
it  assigns  itself,  also,  to  a  category  even  more  special  and  less 
generally  appealing  through  the  fact  (though  this,  again,  was  a 
feature  not  uncommon  with  Sophocles)  that  the  conflict  is  not 
even  allowed  to  take  place  between  a  man  and  a  woman.  Nor 
does  it  even  put  before  us  the  spectacle — which  may  be  made 
exceedingly  thrilling — of  the  individual  in  conflict  with  his  social 
group,  which  we  get  in  such  plays  devoid  of  feminine  interest  as 
Coriolanus  and  An  Enemy  of  the  People.  Nor  is  the  conflict  even 
a  dual  one,  as  most  dramatic  conflicts  are — so  that  our  emotions 
seesaw  up  and  down  between  two  opposed  persons  or  groups: 
though  Philoctetes  and  Odysseus  struggle  for  the  loyalty  of  Neop- 
tolemus,  he  himself  emerges  more  and  more  distinctly  as  rep- 
resenting an  independent  point  of  view,  so  that  the  contrast  be- 
comes a  triple  affair  which  makes  more  complicated  demands  on 
our  sympathies. 

A  French  dramatist  of  the  seventeenth  century,  Chateaubrun, 
found  the  subject  so  inconceivable  that,  in  trying  to  concoct  an 
adaptation  which  would  be  acceptable  to  the  taste  of  his  time, 
he  provided  Philoctetes  with  a  daughter  named  Sophie  with  whom 
Neoptolemus  was  to  fall  in  love  and  thus  bring  the  drama  back 
to  the  reliable  and  eternal  formula  of  Romeo  and  Juliet  and  the 
organizer  who  loves  the  factory  owner's  daughter.  And  if  we  look 
for  the  imprint  of  the  play  on  literature  since  the  Renaissance,  we 
shall  find  a  very  meager  record:  a  chapter  of  Fenelon's  Telemaque, 
a  discussion  in  Lessing's  Laocoon,  a  sonnet  of  Wordsworth's,  a 
little  play  by  Andre  Gide,  an  adaptation  by  John  Jay  Chapman — 
this  is  all,  so  far  as  I  know,  that  has  any  claim  to  interest. 

And  yet  the  play  itself  is  most  interesting,  as  some  of  these 
writers  have  felt;  and  it  is  certainly  one  of  Sophocles'  masterpieces. 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  523 

If  we  come  upon  it  in  the  course  of  reading  him,  without  having 
heard  it  praised,  we  are  surprised  to  be  so  charmed,  so  moved — 
to  find  ourselves  in  the  presence  of  something  that  is  so  much  less 
crude  in  its  subtlety  than  either  a  three-cornered  modern  comedy 
like  Candida  or  La  Parisienne  or  an  underplayed  affair  of  male 
loyalty  in  a  story  by  Ernest  Hemingway,  to  both  of  which  it  has 
some  similarity.  It  is  as  if  having  the  three  men  on  the  lonely 
island  has  enabled  the  highly  sophisticated  Sophocles  to  get  fur- 
ther away  from  the  framework  of  the  old  myths  on  which  he  has 
to  depend  and  whose  barbarities,  anomalies  and  absurdities,  tact- 
fully and  realistically  though  he  handles  them,  seem  sometimes 
almost  as  much  out  of  place  as  they  would  in  a  dialogue  by  Plato. 
The  people  of  the  Philoctetes  seem  to  us  more  familiar  than  they 
do  in  most  of  the  other  Greek  tragedies; x  and  they  take  on  for  us 
a  more  intimate  meaning.  Philoctetes  remains  in  our  mind,  and  his 
incurable  wound  and  his  invincible  bow  recur  to  us  with  a  special 
insistence.  But  what  is  it  they  mean?  How  is  it  possible  for  Soph- 
ocles to  make  us  accept  them  so  naturally?  Why  do  we  enter  with 
scarcely  a  stumble  into  the  situation  of  people  who  are  preoccupied 
-with  a  snake  bite  that  lasts  forever  and  a  weapon  that  cannot  fail? 

Let  us  first  take  account  of  the  peculiar  twist  which  Sophocles 
seems  to  have  given  the  legend,  as  it  had  come  to  him  from  the 
old  epics  and  the  dramatists  who  had  used  it  before  him. 

The  main  outline  of  the  story  ran  as  follows:  The  demigod 
Heracles  had  been  given  by  Apollo  a  bow  that  never  missed  its 
mark.  When,  poisoned  by  Deianeira's  robe,  he  had  had  himself 
burned  on  Mount  Oeta,  he  had  persuaded  Philoctetes  to  light  the 
pyre  and  had  rewarded  him  by  bequeathing  to  him  this  weapon. 
Philoctetes  had  thus  been  formidably  equipped  when  he  had  later 
set  forth  against  Troy  with  Agamemnon  and  Menelaus.  But  on 
the  way  they  had  to  stop  off  at  the  tiny  island  of  Chryse  to  sacri- 
fice to  the  local  deity.  Philoctetes  approached  the  shrine  first,  and 
he  was  bitten  in  the  foot  by  a  snake.  The  infection  became  pecul- 
iarly virulent;  and  the  groans  of  Philoctetes  made  it  impossible  to 
perform  the  sacrifice,  which  would  be  spoiled  by  ill-omened  sounds; 
the  bite  began  to  suppurate  with  so  horrible  a  smell  that  his  com- 
panions could  not  bear  to  have  him  near  them.  They  removed 


524  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

him  to  Lemnos,  a  neighboring  island  which  was  much  larger  than 
Chryse  and  inhabited,  and  sailed  away  to  Troy  without  him. 

Philoctetes  remained  there  ten  years.  The  mysterious  wound 
never  healed.  In  the  meantime,  the  Greeks,  hard  put  to  it  at  Troy 
after  the  deaths  of  Achilles  and  Ajax  and  baffled  by  the  confession 
of  their  soothsayer  that  he  was  unable  to  advise  them  further,  had 
kidnaped  the  soothsayer  of  the  Trojans  and  had  forced  him  to 
reveal  to  them  that  they  could  never  win  till  they  had  sent  for 
Neoptolemus,  the  son  of  Achilles,  and  given  him  his  father's  armor, 
and  till  they  had  brought  Philoctetes  and  his  bow. 

Both  these  things  were  done.  Philoctetes  was  healed  at  Troy  by 
the  son  of  the  physician  Asclepius;  and  he  fought  Paris  in  single 
combat  and  killed  him.  Philoctetes  and  Neoptolemus  became  the 
heroes  of  the  taking  of  Troy. 

Both  Aeschylus  and  Euripides  wrote  plays  on  this  subject  long 
before  Sophocles  did;  and  we  know  something  about  them  from 
a  comparison  of  the  treatments  by  the  three  different  dramatists 
which  was  written  by  Dion  Chrysostom,  a  rhetorician  of  the  first 
century  a.d.  Both  these  versions  would  seem  to  have  been  mainly 
concerned  with  the  relation  of  Philoctetes  to  the  success  of  the 
Greek  campaign.  All  three  of  the  plays  dealt  with  the  same  epi- 
sode: the  visit  of  Odysseus  to  Lemnos  for  the  purpose  of  getting 
the  bow;  and  all  represented  Odysseus  as  particularly  hateful  to 
Philoctetes  (because  Odysseus  had  been  one  of  those  responsible 
for  abandoning  him  on  the  island),  and  obliged  to  resort  to  cun- 
/ning.  But  the  emphasis  of  Sophocles'  treatment  appears  funda- 
mentally to  have  differed  from  that  of  the  other  two.  In  the  drama 
of  Aeschylus,  we  are  told,  Odysseus  was  not  recognized  by  Philoc- 
tetes, and  he  seems  simply  to  have  stolen  the  bow.  In  Euripides, 
he  was  disguised  by  Athena  in  the  likeness  of  another  person,  and 
he  pretended  that  he  had  been  wronged  by  the  Greeks  as  Philoc- 
tetes had  been.  He  had  to  compete  with  a  delegation  of  Trojans, 
who  had  been  sent  to  get  the  bow  for  their  side  and  who  arrived 
at  the  same  time  as  he;  and  we  do  not  know  precisely  what  hap- 
pened. But  Dion  Chrysostom  regarded  the  play  as  "a  masterpiece 
of  declamation"  and  "a  model  of  ingenious  debate,"  and  Jebb 
thinks  it  probable  that  Odysseus  won  the  contest  by  an  appeal  to 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  525 

Philoctetes'  patriotism.  Since  Odysseus  was  pretending  to  have 
been  wronged  by  the  Greeks,  he  could  point  to  his  own  behavior 
in  suppressing  his  personal  resentments  in  the  interests  of  saving 
Greek  honor.  The  moral  theme  thus  established  by  Aeschylus  and 
Euripides  both  would  have  been  simply,  like  the  theme  of  the 
wrath  of  Achilles,  the  conflict  between  the  passions  of  an  individual 
— in  this  case,  an  individual  suffering  from  a  genuine  wrong — 
and  the  demands  of  duty  to  a  common  cause. 

This  conflict  appears  also  in  Sophocles;  but  it  takes  on  a  peculiar 
aspect.  Sophocles,  in  the  plays  of  his  we  have,  shows  himself  par- 
ticularly successful  with  people  whose  natures  have  been  poisoned 
by  narrow  fanatical  hatreds.  Even  allowing  for  the  tendency  of 
Greek  heroes,  in  legend  and  history  both,  to  fly  into  rather  childish 
rages,  we  still  feel  on  Sophocles'  part  some  sort  of  special  point 
of  view,  some  sort  of  special  sympathy,  for  these  cases.  Such  peo- 
ple— Electra  and  the  embittered  old  Oedipus — suffer  as  much  as 
they  hate:  it  is  because  they  suffer  they  hate.  They  horrify,  but 
they  waken  pity.  Philoctetes  is  such  another:  a  man  obsessed  by 
a  grievance,  which  in  his  case  he  is  to  be  kept  from  forgetting  by 
an  agonizing  physical  ailment;  and  for  Sophocles  his  pain  and 
hatred  have  a  dignity  and  an  interest.  Just  as  it  is  by  no  means 
plain  to  Sophocles  that  in  the  affair  of  Antigone  versus  Cleon  it 
is  the  official  point  of  view  of  Cleon,  representing  the  interests  of 
his  victorious  faction,  which  should  have  the  last  word  against 
Antigone,  infuriated  by  a  personal  wrong;  so  it  is  by  no  means 
plain  to  him  that  the  morality  of  Odysseus,  who  is  lying  and  steal- 
ing for  the  fatherland,  necessarily  deserves  to  prevail  over  the 
animus  of  the  stricken  Philoctetes. 

The  contribution  of  Sophocles  to  the  story  is  a  third  person 
who  will  sympathize  with  Philoctetes.  This  new  character  is  Neop- 
tolemus,  the  young  son  of  Achilles,  who,  along  with  Philoctetes,  is 
indispensable  to  the  victory  of  the  Greeks  and  who  has  just  been 
summoned  to  Troy.  Odysseus  is  made  to  bring  him  to  Lemnos 
for  the  purpose  of  deceiving  Philoctetes  and  shanghaiing  him 
aboard  the  ship. 

The  play  opens  with  a  scene  between  Odysseus  and  the  boy,  in 
which  the  former  explains  the  purpose  of  their  trip.  Odysseus  will 


526  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

remain  in  hiding  in  order  not  to  be  recognized  by  Philoctetes,  and 
Neoptolemus  will  go  up  to  the  cave  in  which  Philoctetes  lives 
and  win  his  confidence  by  pretending  that  the  Greeks  have  robbed 
him  of  his  father's  armor,  so  that  he,  too,  has  a  grievance  against 
them.  The  youth  in  his  innocence  and  candor  objects  when  he  is 
told  what  his  role  is  to  be,  but  Odysseus  persuades  him  by  remind- 
ing him  that  they  can  only  take  Troy  through  his  obedience  and 
that  once  they  have  taken  Troy,  he  will  be  glorified  for  his  bravery 
and  wisdom.  "As  soon  as  we  have  won,"  Odysseus  assures  him, 
"we  shall  conduct  ourselves  with  perfect  honesty.  But  for  one  short 
day  of  dishonesty,  allow  me  to  direct  you  what  to  do — and  then 
forever  after  you  will  be  known  as  the  most  righteous  of  men." 
The  line  of  argument  adopted  by  Odysseus  is  one  with  which  the 
politics  of  our  time  have  made  us  very  familiar.  "Isn't  it  base, 
then,  to  tell  falsehoods?"  Neoptolemus  asks.  "Not,"  Odysseus  rer 
plies,  "when  a  falsehood  will  bring  our  salvation." 

Neoptolemus  goes  to  talk  to  Philoctetes.  He  finds  him  in  the 
wretched  cave — described  by  Sophocles  with  characteristic  realism: 
the  bed  of  leaves,  the  crude  wooden  bowl,  the  filthy  bandages  dry- 
ing in  the  sun — where  he  has  been  living  in  rags  for  ten  years, 
limping  out  from  time  to  time  to  shoot  wild  birds  or  to  get  himself 
wood  and  water.  The  boy  hears  the  harrowing  story  of  Philoctetes' 
desertion  by  the  Greeks  and  listens  to  his  indignation.  The  ruined 
captain  begs  Neoptolemus  to  take  him  back  to  his  native  land, 
and  the  young  man  pretends  to  consent.  (Here  and  elsewhere  I 
am  telescoping  the  scenes  and  simplifying  a  more  complex  devel- 
opment.) But  just  as  they  are  leaving  for  the  ship,  the  ulcer  on 
Philoctetes'  foot  sets  up  an  ominous  throbbing  in  preparation  for 
one  of  its  periodical  burstings:  "She  returns  from  time  to  time," 
says  the  invalid,  "as  if  she  were  sated  with  her  wanderings."  In  a 
moment  he  is  stretched  on  the  ground,  writhing  in  abject  anguish 
and  begging  the  young  man  to  cut  off  his  foot.  He  gives  Neop- 
tolemus the  bow,  telling  him  to  take  care  of  it  till  the  seizure  is 
over.  A  second  spasm,  worse  than  the  first,  reduces  him  to  im- 
ploring the  boy  to  throw  him  into  the  crater  of  the  Lemnian  vol- 
cano: so  he  himself,  he  says,  had  lit  the  fire  which  consumed  the 
tormented  Heracles  and  had  got  in  return  these  arms,  which  he 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  527 

is  now  handing  on  to  Neoptolemus.  The  pain  abates  a  little;  "It 
comes  and  goes,"  says  Philoctetes;  and  he  entreats  the  young  man 
not  to  leave  him.  "Don't  worry  about  that.  We'll  stay."  "I  shan't 
even  make  you  swear  it,  my  son."  "It  would  not  be  right  to  leave 
you"  (it  would  not  be  right,  of  course,  even  from  the  Greeks'  point 
of  view).  They  shake  hands  on  it.  A  third  paroxysm  twists  the 
cripple;  now  he  asks  Neoptolemus  to  carry  him  to  the  cave,  but 
shrinks  from  his  grasp  and  struggles.  At  last  the  abscess  bursts, 
the  dark  blood  begins  to  flow.  Philoctetes,  faint  and  sweating,  falls 
asleep. 

The  sailors  who  have  come  with  Neoptolemus  urge  him  to  make 
off  with  the  bow.  "No,"  the  young  man  replies.  "He  cannot  hear 
us;  but  I  am  sure  that  it  will  not  be  enough  for  us  to  recapture  the 
bow  without  him.  It  is  he  who  is  to  have  the  glory — it  was  he  the 
god  told  us  to  bring." 

While  they  are  arguing,  Philoctetes  awakes  and  thanks  the 
young  man  with  emotion:  "Agamemnon  and  Menelaus  were  not 
so  patient  and  loyal."  But  now  they  must  get  him  to  the  ship,  and 
the  boy  will  have  to  see  him  undeceived  and  endure  his  bitter  re- 
proaches. "The  men  will  carry  you  down,"  says  Neoptolemus. 
"Don't  trouble  them:  just  help  me  up,"  Philoctetes  replies.  "It 
would  be  too  disagreeable  for  them  to  take  me  all  the  way  to 
the  ship."  The  smell  of  the  suppuration  has  been  sickening.  The 
young  man  begins  to  hesitate.  The  other  sees  that  he  is  in  doubt 
about  something:  "You're  not  so  overcome  with  disgust  at  my 
disease  that  you  don't  think  you  can  have  me  on  the  ship  with 
you?"— 

ov  by]  oe  hvoyeQEia  xov  voarmatos 
sroiaev  coate  \ir)  jx'  ayeiv  vavxrxv  eti; 

The  answer  is  one  of  the  most  effective  of  those  swift  and  brief 
speeches  of  Sophocles  which  for  the  first  time  make  a  situation 
explicit  (my  attempts  to  render  this  dialogue  colloquially  do  no 
justice  to  the  feeling  and  point  of  the  verse) : 

ajmvta  8vax6Q6ia,  ttjv  auTOii  (pvaiv 
otav  Xtraov  tig  bga  xa  \iv\  jtQOoeixota. 


528  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

"Everything  becomes  disgusting  when  you  are  false  to  your  own 
nature  and  behave  in  an  unbecoming  way." 

He  confesses  his  real  intentions;  and  a  painful  scene  occurs. 
Philoctetes  denounces  the  boy  in  terms  that  would  be  appropriate 
for  Odysseus;  he  sees  himself  robbed  of  his  bow  and  left  to  starve 
on  the  island.  The  young  man  is  deeply  worried:  "Why  did  I  ever 
leave  Scyros?"  he  asks  himself.  "Comrades,  what  shall  I  do?" 

At  this  moment,  Odysseus,  who  has  been  listening,  pops  out 
from  his  hiding  place.  With  a  lash  of  abuse  at  Neoptolemus,  he 
orders  him  to  hand  over  the  arms.  The  young  man's  spirit  flares 
up:  when  Odysseus  invokes  the  will  of  Zeus,  he  tells  him  that  he 
is  degrading  the  gods  by  lending  them  his  own  lies.  Philoctetes 
turns  on  Odysseus  with  an  invective  which  cannot  fail  to  impress 
the  generous  Neoptolemus:  Why  have  they  come  for  him  now? 
he  demands.  Is  he  not  still  just  as  ill-omened  and  loathsome  as  he 
had  been  when  they  made  him  an  outcast?  They  have  only  come 
back  to  get  him  because  the  gods  have  told  them  they  must. 

The  young  man  now  defies  his  mentor  and  takes  his  stand  with 
Philoctetes.  Odysseus  threatens  him:  if  he  persists,  he  will  have 
the  whole  Greek  army  against  him,  and  they  will  see  to  it  that  he 
is  punished  for  his  treason.  Neoptolemus  declares  his  intention  of 
taking  Philoctetes  home;  he  gives  him  back  his  bow.  Odysseus 
tries  to  intervene;  but  Philoctetes  has  got  the  bow  and  aims  an 
arrow  at  him.  Neoptolemus  seizes  his  hand  and  restrains  him. 
Odysseus,  always  prudent,  beats  a  quiet  retreat. 

Now  the  boy  tries  to  persuade  the  angry  man  that  he  should, 
nevertheless,  rescue  the  Greeks.  "I  have  proved  my  good  faith," 
says  Neoptolemus;  "you  know  that  I  am  not  going  to  coerce  you. 
Why  be  so  wrongheaded?  When  the  gods  afflict  us,  we  are  obliged 
to  bear  our  misfortunes;  but  must  people  pity  a  man  who  suffers 
through  his  own  choice?  The  snake  that  bit  you  was  an  agent  of 
the  gods,  it  was  the  guardian  of  the  goddess'  shrine,  and  I  swear 
to  you  by  Zeus  that  the  sons  of  Asclepius  will  cure  you  if  you 
let  us  take  you  to  Troy."  Philoctetes  is  incredulous,  refuses.  "Since 
you  gave  me  your  word,"  he  says,  "take  me  home  again."  "The 
Greeks  will  attack  me  and  ruin  me."  "I'll  defend  you."  "How  can 
you?"  "With  my  bow."  Neoptolemus  is  forced  to  consent. 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  529 

But  now  Heracles  suddenly  appears  from  the  skies  and  declares 
to  Philoctetes  that  what  the  young  man  says  is  true,  and  that  it 
is  right  for  him  to  go  to  Troy.  He  and  the  son  of  Achilles  shall 
stand  together  like  lions  and  shall  gloriously  carry  the  day. — The 
deus  ex  machina  here  may  of  course  figure  a  change  of  heart 
which  has  taken  place  in  Philoctetes  as  the  result  of  his  having 
found  a  man  who  recognizes  the  wrong  that  has  been  done  him 
and  who  is  willing  to  champion  his  cause  in  defiance  of  all  the 
Greek  forces.  His  patron,  the  chivalrous  Heracles,  who  had  him- 
self performed  so  many  generous  exploits,  asserts  his  influence 
over  his  heir.  The  long  hatred  is  finally  exorcised. 

In  a  fine  lyric  utterance  which  ends  the  play,  Philoctetes  says 
farewell  to  the  cavern,  where  he  has  lain  through  so  many  nights 
listening  to  the  deep-voiced  waves  as  they  crashed  against  the 
headland,  and  wetted  by  the  rain  and  the  spray  blown  in  by  the 
winter  gales.  A  favorable  wind  has  sprung  up;  and  he  sails  away 
to  Troy. 

It  is  possible  to  guess  at  several  motivations  behind  the  writing 
of  the  Philoctetes.  The  play  was  produced  in  409,  when — if  the 
tradition  of  his  longevity  be  true — Sophocles  would  have  been 
eighty-seven;  and  it  is  supposed  to  have  been  followed  by  the 
Oedipus  Coloneus,  which  is  assigned  to  405  or  406.  The  latter 
deals  directly  with  old  age;  but  it  would  appear  that  the  Philoctetes 
anticipates  this  theme  in  another  form.  Philoctetes,  like  the  out- 
lawed Oedipus,  is  impoverished,  humbled,  abandoned  by  his  peo- 
ple, exacerbated  by  hardship  and  chagrin.  He  is  accursed:  Philoc- 
tetes' ulcer  is  an  equivalent  for  the  abhorrent  sins  of  Oedipus, 
parricide  and  incest  together,  which  have  made  of  the  ruler  a 
pariah.  And  yet  somehow  both  are  sacred  persons  who  have  ac- 
quired superhuman  powers,  and  who  are  destined  to  be  purged  of 
their  guilt.  One  passage  from  the  earlier  play  is  even  strikingly 
repeated  in  the  later.  The  conception  of  the  wave-beaten  promon- 
tory and  the  sick  man  lying  in  his  cave  assailed  by  the  wind  and 
rain  turns  up  in  the  Oedipus  Coloneus  (Colonus  was  Sophocles' 
native  deme)  with  a  figurative  moral  value.  So  the  ills  of  old  age 
assail  Oedipus.  Here  are  the  lines,  in  A.  E.  Housman's  translation: 


530  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

This  man,  as  me,  even  so, 
Have  the  evil  days  overtaken; 
And  like  as  a  cape  sea-shaken 
With  tempest  at  earth's  last  verges 
And  shock  of  all  winds  that  blow, 
His  head  the  seas  of  woe, 
The  thunders  of  awful  surges 
Ruining  overflow: 
Blown  from  the  fall  of  even, 

Blown  from  the  dayspring  forth, 
Blown  from  the  noon  in  heaven, 

Blown  from  night  and  the  North. 

But  Oedipus  has  endured  as  Philoctetes  has  endured  in  the  teeth 
of  all  the  cold  and  the  darkness,  the  screaming  winds  and  the  bel- 
lowing breakers:  the  blind  old  man  is  here  in  his  own  person  the 
headland  that  stands  against  the  storm. 

We  may  remember  a  widely  current  story  about  the  creator  of 
these  two  figures.  It  is  said  that  one  of  Sophocles'  sons  brought 
him  into  court  in  his  advanced  old  age  on  the  complaint  that  he 
was  no  longer  competent  to  manage  his  property.  The  old  poet 
is  supposed  to  have  recited  a  passage  from  the  play  which  he  had 
been  writing:  the  chorus  in  praise  of  Colonus,  with  its  clear  song 
of  nightingales,  its  wine-dark  ivy,  its  crocus  glowing  golden  and 
its  narcissus  moist  with  dew,  where  the  stainless  stream  of  the 
Cephisus  wanders  through  the  broad-swelling  plain  and  where  the 
gray-leaved  olive  grows  of  itself  beneath  the  gaze  of  the  gray-eyed 
Athena — shining  Colonus,  breeder  of  horses  and  of  oarsmen  whom 
the  Nereids  lead.  The  scene  had  been  represented  on  the  stage  and 
Sophocles  had  been  made  to  declare:  "If  I  am  Sophocles,  I  am 
not  mentally  incapable;  if  I  am  mentally  incapable,  I  am  not 
Sophocles."  In  any  case,  the  story  was  that  the  tribunal,  composed 
of  his  fellow  clansmen,  applauded  and  acquitted  the  poet  and 
censored  the  litigating  son.  The  ruined  and  humiliated  heroes  of 
Sophocles'  later  plays  are  still  persons  of  mysterious  virtue,  whom 
their  fellows  are  forced  to  respect. 

There  is  also  a  possibility,  even  a  strong  probability,  that  Soph- 
ocles intended  Philoctetes  to  be  identified  with  Alcibiades.  This 
brilliant  and  unique  individual,  one  of  the  great  military  leaders 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  531 

of  the  Athenians,  had  been  accused  by  political  opponents  of  dam- 
aging the  sacred  statues  of  Hermes  and  burlesquing  the  Eleusinian  - 
mysteries,  and  had  been  summoned  to  stand  trial  at  Athens  while 
he  was  away  on  his  campaign  against  Sicily.  He  had  at  once  gone 
over  to  the  Spartans,  commencing  that  insolent  career  of  shifting 
allegiances  which  ended  with  his  returning  to  the  Athenian  side. 
At  a  moment  of  extreme  danger,  he  had  taken  over  a  part  of  the 
Athenian  fleet  and  had  defeated  the  Spartans  in  two  sensational 
battles  in  411  and  410,  thus  sweeping  them  out  of  the  eastern 
Aegean  and  enabling  the  Athenians  to  dominate  the  Hellespont. 
The  Philoctetes  was  produced  in  409,  when  the  Athenians  already 
wanted  him  back  and  were  ready  to  cancel  the  charges  against 
him  and  to  restore  him  to  citizenship.  Alcibiades  was  a  startling 
example  of  a  bad  character  who  was  indispensable.  Plutarch  says 
that  Aristophanes  well  describes  the  Athenian  feeling  about  Alci- 
biades when  he  writes:  "They  miss  him  and  hate  him  and  long^ 
to  have  him  back."  And  the  malady  of  Philoctetes  may  have  fig- 
ured his  moral  defects :  the  unruly  and  unscrupulous  nature  which, 
even  though  he  seems  to  have  been  innocent  of  the  charges  brought 
against  him,  had  given  them  a  certain  plausibility.  It  must  have 
looked  to  the  Athenians,  too,  after  the  victories  of  Abydos  and 
Cyzicus,  as  if  he  possessed  an  invincible  bow.  Plutarch  says  that 
the  men  who  had  served  under  him  at  the  taking  of  Cyzicus  did 
actually  come  to  regard  themselves  as  undefeatable  and  refused 
to  share  quarters  with  other  soldiers  who  had  fought  in  less  suc- 
cessful engagements. 

Yet  behind  both  the  picture  of  old  age  and  the  line  in  regard  to 
Alcibiades,  one  feels  in  the  Philoctetes  a  more  general  and  funda- 
mental idea:  the  conception  of  superior  strength  as  inseparable01* 
from  disability. 

For  the  superiority  of  Philoctetes  does  not  reside  merely  in 
the  enchanted  bow.  When  Lessing  replied  to  Winckelmann,  who 
had  referred  to  Sophocles'  cripple  as  if  he  were  an  example  of  the 
conventional  idea  of  impassive  classical  fortitude,  he  pointed  out 
that,  far  from  exemplifying  impassivity,  Philoctetes  becomes  com- 
pletely demoralized  every  time  he  has  one  of  his  seizures,  and 


532  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

yet  that  this  only  heightens  our  admiration  for  the  pride  which 
prevents  him  from  escaping  at  the  expense  of  helping  those  who 
have  deserted  him.  "We  despise,"  say  the  objectors,  "any  man 
from  whom  bodily  pain  extorts  a  shriek.  Ay,  but  not  always;  not 
for  the  first  time,  nor  if  we  see  that  the  sufferer  strains  every  nerve 
to  stifle  the  expression  of  his  pain;  not  if  we  know  him  otherwise 
to  be  a  man  of  firmness;  still  less  if  we  witness  evidences  of  his 
firmness  in  the  very  midst  of  his  sufferings,  and  observe  that,  al- 
though pain  may  have  extorted  a  shriek,  it  has  extorted  nothing 
else  from  him,  but  that  on  the  contrary  he  submits  to  the  prolon- 
gation of  his  pain  rather  than  renounce  one  iota  of  his  resolutions, 
even  where  such  a  concession  would  promise  him  the  termination 
of  his  misery." 

For  Andre  Gide,  in  his  Philoctete,  the  obstinacy  of  the  invalid 
hermit  takes  on  a  character  almost  mystical.  By  persisting  in  his 
bleak  and  lonely  life,  the  Philoctetes  of  Gide  wins  the  love  of  a 
more  childlike  Neoptolemus  and  even  compels  the  respect  of  a  less 
hard-boiled  Odysseus.  He  is  practicing  a  kind  of  virtue  superior 
not  only  to  the  virtue  of  the  latter,  with  his  code  of  obedience  to 
the  demands  of  the  group,  but  also  to  that  of  the  former,  who 
forgets  his  patriotic  obligations  for  those  of  a  personal  attachment. 
There  is  something  above  the  gods,  says  the  Philoctetes  of  Gide; 
and  it  is  virtue  to  devote  oneself  to  this.  But  what  is  it?  asks  Neop- 
tolemus. I  do  not  know,  he  answers;  oneself!  The  misfortune  of 
his  exile  on  the  island  has  enabled  him  to  perfect  himself:  "I  have 
learned  to  express  myself  better,"  he  tells  them,  "now  that  I  am 
no  longer  with  men.  Between  hunting  and  sleeping,  I  occupy  my- 
self with  thinking.  My  ideas,  since  I  have  been  alone  so  that  noth- 
ing, not  even  suffering,  disturbs  them,  have  taken  a  subtle  course 
which  sometimes  I  can  hardly  follow.  I  have  come  to  know  more 
of  the  secrets  of  life  than  my  masters  had  ever  revealed  to  me.  And 
I  took  to  telling  the  story  of  my  sufferings,  and  if  the  phrase  was 
very  beautiful,  I  was  by  so  much  consoled;  I  even  sometimes  for- 
got my  sadness  by  uttering  it.  I  came  to  understand  that  words 
inevitably  become  more  beautiful  from  the  moment  they  are  no 
longer  put  together  in  response  to  the  demands  of  others.  .  .  ." 
The  Philoctetes  of  Gide  is,  in  fact,  a  literary  man:   at  once  a 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  533 

moralist  and  an  artist,  whose  genius  becomes  purer  and  deeper 
in  ratio  to  his  isolation  and  outlawry.  In  the  end,  he  lets  the  in- 
truders steal  the  bow  after  satisfying  himself  that  Neoptolemus  can 
handle  it,  and  subsides  into  a  blissful  tranquillity,  much  relieved 
that  there  is  no  longer  any  reason  for  people  to  seek  him  out. 

With  Gide  we  come  close  to  a  further  implication,  which  even 
Gide  does  not  fully  develop  but  which  must  occur  to  the  modern 
reader:  the  idea  that  genius  and  disease,  like  strength  and  mutila- 
tion, may  be  inextricably  bound  up  together.  It  is  significant  that 
the  only  two  writers  of  our  time  who  have  especially  interested 
themselves  in  Philoctetes — Andre  Gide  and  John  Jay  Chapman — 
should  both  be  persons  who  have  not  only,  like  the  hero  of  the 
play,  stood  at  an  angle  to  the  morality  of  society  and  defended 
their  position  with  stubbornness,  but  who  have  suffered  from  psy- 
chological disorders  which  have  made  them,  in  Gide's  case,  ill- 
regarded  by  his  fellows;  in  Chapman's  case,  excessively  difficult. 
Nor  is  it  perhaps  accidental  that  Charles  Lamb,  with  his  experi- 
ence of  his  sister's  insanity,  should  in  his  essay  on  The  Convalescent 
choose  the  figure  of  Philoctetes  as  a  symbol  for  his  own  "nervous 
fever." 

And  we  must  even,  I  believe,  grant  Sophocles  some  special  in- 
sight into  morbid  psychology.  The  tragic  themes  of  all  three  of 
the  great  dramatists — the  madnesses,  the  murders  and  the  incests 
— may  seem  to  us  sufficiently  morbid.  The  hero  with  an  incurable 
wound  was  even  a  stock  subject  of  myth  not  confined  to  the 
Philoctetes  legend:  there  was  also  the  story  of  Telephus,  also 
wounded  and  also  indispensable,  about  which  both  Sophocles  and 
Euripides  wrote  plays.  But  there  is  a  difference  between  the  treat- 
ment that  Sophocles  gives  to  these  conventional  epic  subjects  and 
the  treatments  of  the  other  writers.  Aeschylus  is  more  religious 
and  philosophical;  Euripides  more  romantic  and  sentimental.  Soph- 
ocles by  comparison  is  clinical.  Arthur  Piatt,  who  had  a  special 
interest  in  the  scientific  aspect  of  the  classics,  says  that  Sophocles 
was  scrupulously  up-to-date  in  the  physical  science  of  his  time. 
He  was  himself  closely  associated  by  tradition  with  the  cult  of 
the  healer  Asclepius,  whose  son  is  to  cure  Philoctetes :  Lucian  had 
read  a  poem  which  he  had  dedicated  to  the  doctor-god;  and  Plu- 


534  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

tarch  reports  that  Asclepius  was  supposed  to  have  visited  his 
hearth.  He  is  said  also  to  have  been  actually  a  priest  of  another 
of  the  medical  cults.  Piatt  speaks  particularly  of  his  medical  knowl- 
edge— which  is  illustrated  by  the  naturalism  and  precision  of  his 
description  of  Philoctetes'  infected  bite. 

But  there  is  also  in  Sophocles  a  cool  observation  of  the  be- 
havior of  psychological  derangements.  The  madness  of  Ajax  is  a 
genuine  madness,  from  which  he  recovers  to  be  horrified  at  the 
realization  of  what  he  has  done.  And  it  was  not  without  good 
reason  that  Freud  laid  Sophocles  under  contribution  for  the  nam- 
ing of  the  Oedipus  complex — since  Sophocles  had  not  only  dram- 
atized the  myth  that  dwelt  with  the  violation  of  the  incest  taboo, 
but  had  exhibited  the  suppressed  impulse  behind  it  in  the  speech 
in  which  he  makes  Jocasta  attempt  to  reassure  Oedipus  by  re- 
minding him  that  it  was  not  uncommon  for  men  to  dream  about 
sleeping  with  their  mothers — "and  he  who  thinks  nothing  of  this 
gets  through  his  life  most  easily."  Those  who  do  not  get  through 
life  so  easily  are  presented  by  Sophocles  with  a  very  firm  grasp 
on  the  springs  of  their  abnormal  conduct.  Electra  is  what  we 
should  call  nowadays  schizophrenic:  the  woman  who  weeps  over 
the  urn  which  is  supposed  to  contain  her  brother's  ashes  is  not 
"integrated,"  as  we  say,  with  the  fury  who  prepares  her  mother's 
murder.  And  certainly  the  fanaticism  of  Antigone — "fixated,"  like 
Electra,  on  her  brother — is  intended  to  be  abnormal,  too.  The 
banishment  by  Jebb  from  Sophocles'  text  of  the  passage  in  which 
Antigone  explains  the  unique  importance  of  a  brother,  and  his 
juggling  of  the  dialogue  in  the  scene  in  which  she  betrays  her  in- 
difference to  the  feelings  of  the  man  she  is  supposed  to  marry,  are 
certainly  among  the  curiosities  of  Victorian  scholarship — though 
he  was  taking  his  cue  from  the  complaint  of  Goethe  that  Antigone 
had  been  shown  by  Sophocles  as  acting  from  trivial  motives  and 
Goethe's  hope  that  her  speech  about  her  brother  might  someday 
be  shown  to  be  spurious.  Aristotle  had  cited  this  speech  of  An- 
tigone's as  an  outstanding  example  of  the  principle  that  if  anything 
peculiar  occurs  in  a  play  the  cause  must  be  shown  by  the  dramatist. 
It  was  admitted  by  Jebb  that  his  rewriting  of  these  passages  had  no 
real  textual  justification;  and  in  one  case  he  violates  glaringly  the  con- 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  535 

vention  of  the  one-line  dialogue.  To  accept  his  emendation  would 
involve  the  assumption  that  Aristotle  did  not  know  what  the  orig- 
inal text  had  been  and  was  incapable  of  criticizing  the  corrupted 
version.  No:  Antigone  forgets  her  fiance  and  kills  herself  for  her 
brother.  Her  timid  sister  (like  Electra's  timid  sister)  represents 
the  normal  feminine  point  of  view.  Antigone's  point  of  view  is 
peculiar,  as  Aristotle  says.  (The  real  motivation  of  the  Antigone 
has  been  retraced  with  unmistakable  accuracy  by  Professor  Walter 
R.  Agard  in  Classical  Philology  of  July,  1937.) 

These  insane  or  obsessed  people  of  Sophocles  all  display  a 
perverse  kind  of  nobility.  I  have  spoken  of  the  authority  of  expia- 
tion which  emanates  from  the  blasted  Oedipus.  Even  the  virulence 
of  Electra's  revenge  conditions  the  intensity  of  her  tenderness  for 
Orestes.  And  so  the  maniacal  fury  which  makes  Ajax  run  amuck, 
the  frenzy  of  Heracles  in  the  Nessus  robe,  terribly  though  they 
transform  their  victims,  can  never  destroy  their  virtue  of  heroes. 
The  poor  disgraced  Ajax  will  receive  his  due  of  honor  after  his 
suicide  and  will  come  to  stand  higher  in  our  sympathies  than 
Menelaus  and  Agamemnon,  those  obtuse  and  brutal  captains,  who 
here  as  in  the  Philoctetes  are  obviously  no  favorites  of  Sophocles'. 
Heracles  in  his  final  moments  bids  his  spirit  curb  his  lips  with 
steel  to  keep  him  from  crying  out,  and  carry  him  through  his  self- 
destructive  duty  as  a  thing  that  is  to  be  desired. 

Some  of  these  maladies  are  physical  in  origin,  others  are  psy- 
chological; but  they  link  themselves  with  one  another.  The  case  of 
Ajax  connects  psychological  disorder  as  we  get  it  in  Electra,  for 
example,  with  the  access  of  pain  and  rage  that  causes  Heracles  to 
kill  the  herald  Lichas;  the  case  of  Heracles  connects  a  poisoning 
that  produces  a  murderous  fury  with  an  infection  that,  though  it 
distorts  the  personality,  does  not  actually  render  the  victim  de- 
mented: the  wound  of  Philoctetes,  whose  agony  comes  in  spasms 
like  that  of  Heracles.  All  these  cases  seem  intimately  related. 

It  has  been  the  misfortune  of  Sophocles  to  figure  in  academic 
tradition  as  the  model  of  those  qualities  of  coolness  and  restraint 
which  that  tradition  regards  as  classical.  Those  who  have  never 
read  him — remembering  the  familiar  statue — are  likely  to  con- 
ceive something  hollow  and  marmoreal.  Actually,  as  C.  M.  Bowra 


536  ART  AND  PSYCHOANALYSIS 

says,  Sophocles  is  "passionate  and  profound."  Almost  everything 
that  we  are  told  about  him  by  the  tradition  of  the  ancient  world 
suggests  equanimity  and  amiability  and  the  enjoyment  of  unusual 
good  fortune.  But  there  is  one  important  exception:  the  anecdote 
in  Plato's  Republic  in  which  Sophocles  is  represented  as  saying 
that  the  release  from  amorous  desire  which  had  come  to  him  in 
his  old  age  had  been  like  a  liberation  from  an  insane  and  cruel 
master.  He  has  balance  and  logic,  of  course:  those  qualities  that 
the  classicists  admire;  but  these  qualities  only  count  because  they 
master  so  much  savagery  and  madness.  Somewhere  even  in  the 
fortunate  Sophocles  there  had  been  a  sick  and  raving  Philoctetes. 

And  now  let  us  go  back  to  the  Philoctetes  as  a  parable  of  hu- 
man character.  I  should  interpret  the  fable  as  follows.  The  victim 
of  a  malodorous  disease  which  renders  him  abhorrent  to  society 
and  periodically  degrades  him  and  makes  him  helpless  is  also  the 
master  of  a  superhuman  art  which  everybody  has  to  respect  and 
which  the  normal  man  finds  he  needs.  A  practical  man  like  Odys- 
seus, at  the  same  time  coarse-grained  and  clever,  imagines  that  he 
can  somehow  get  the  bow  without  having  Philoctetes  on  his  hands 
or  that  he  can  kidnap  Philoctetes  the  bowman  without  regard  for 
Philoctetes  the  invalid.  But  the  young  son  of  Achilles  knows  better. 
It  is  at  the  moment  when  his  sympathy  for  Philoctetes  would  nat- 
urally inhibit  his  cheating  him — so  the  supernatural  influences  in 
Sophocles  are  often  made  with  infinite  delicacy  to  shade  into  sub- 
jective motivations — it  is  at  this  moment  of  his  natural  shrinking 
that  it  becomes  clear  to  him  that  the  words  of  the  seer  had  meant 
that  the  bow  would  be  useless  without  Philoctetes  himself.  It  is  in 
the  nature  of  things — of  this  world  where  the  divine  and  the  human 
fuse — that  they  cannot  have  the  irresistible  weapon  without  its 
loathsome  owner,  who  upsets  the  processes  of  normal  life  by  his 
curses  and  his  cries,  and  who  in  any  case  refuses  to  work  for  men 
who  have  exiled  him  from  their  fellowship. 

It  is  quite  right  that  Philoctetes  should  refuse  to  come  to  Troy. 
Yet  it  is  also  decreed  that  he  shall  be  cured  when  he  shall  have 
been  able  to  forget  his  grievance  and  to  devote  his  divine  gifts  to 
the  service  of  his  own  people.  It  is  right  that  he  should  refuse  to 
submit  to  the  purposes  of  Odysseus,  whose  only  idea  is  to  exploit 


Philoctetes:  The  Wound  and  the  Bow  537 

him.  How  then  is  the  gulf  to  be  got  over  between  the  ineffective 
plight  of  the  bowman  and  his  proper  use  of  his  bow,  between  his 
ignominy  and  his  destined  glory?  Only  by  the  intervention  of  one 
who  is  guileless  enough  and  human  enough  to  treat  him,  not  as 
a  monster,  nor  yet  as  a  mere  magical  property  which  is  wanted  for 
accomplishing  some  end,  but  simply  as  another  man,  whose  suf- 
ferings elicit  his  sympathy  and  whose  courage  and  pride  he  ad- 
mires. When  this  human  relation  has  been  realized,  it  seems  at 
first  that  it  is  to  have  the  consequence  of  frustrating  the  purpose 
of  the  expedition  and  ruining  the  Greek  campaign.  Instead  of  win- 
ning over  the  outlaw,  Neoptolemus  has  outlawed  himself  as  well, 
at  a  time  when  both  the  boy  and  the  cripple  are  desperately  needed 
by  the  Greeks.  Yet  in  taking  the  risk  to  his  cause  which  is  involved 
in  the  recognition  of  his  common  humanity  with  the  sick  man,  in 
refusing  to  break  his  word,  he  dissolves  Philoctetes'  stubbornness, 
and  thus  cures  him  and  sets  him  free,  and  saves  the  campaign  as 
well. 


1  "Apropos  of  the  rare  occasions  when  the  ancients  seem  just  like  us,  it 
always  has  seemed  to  me  that  a  wonderful  example  was  the  repentance  of 
the  lad  in  the  [Philoctetes?]  play  of  Sophocles  over  his  deceit,  and  the  resto- 
ration of  the  bow." — Mr.  Justice  Holmes  to  Sir  Frederick  Pollock,  October 
2,  1921. 


Index 


Achilles,  175-176,  521 

Adams,  Henry,  494 

Adler,  Alfred,  311,  418,  476 

Ady,  Andreas,  353 

Aeschylus,  468,  496,  509,  521,  524 

Aesop,  and  didactism,  195 

Agard,  Walter  R.,  535 

Agon,  analysis  of,  429-430 

Aiken,  Conrad,  491-492 

Ajax,  madness  of,  534,  535 

Alcibiades,  530,  531 

Alcott,  Louisa  May,  494 

Alexander,  Franz,  346*,  384,  385 

Alice,  Freudian  aspects  of,  199-200 

Alice,  topic  of  death  in,  197 

Alice,  as  Victorian  figure,  210 

Alice's  Adventures  in   Wonderland, 

134,  185-217 
Alice  in  Wonderland,  185*,  492 
Alienated  Artist  as  Archetype,  468 
Allan,  Frances,  65,  67,  76,  86 
Allan,  John,  62,  65,  66,  67,  70 
Allegories,  in  Kafka,  23 
Altjiranga  mitjina,  342 


Amazons,  of  Kleist,  174-175 
The  Ambassadors,  100 
"Ambiguity,"  Empson's,  491 
America,  revisit  of  James  to,  111 
The  American  Scene,  101,  105 
The  Anatomy  of  the  Mental  Person- 
ality, 375 
The  Anatomy  of  Satire  (Bullitt),  130 
The  Ancient  Mariner,  72,  433-434, 

477,  481 
Anderson,  Sherwood,  237 
Aneera,  335 

The  Angel  of  the  Odd,  62,  66,  79 
Anthony,  Katharine,  494 
Antigone,  525,  534 
Apologia  Pro  Vita  Sua,  213 
Aralkara,  335 
Aranda,  337 
Archetypal  Patterns  in  Poetry,  473 

et  sqq. 
Archetypal  women,  477 
Archetype,  term,  462 
Archetype  of  the  Poet,  468 
Archetype  and  "story,"  470 


*  Indicates  authors  and  articles  which  appear  in  the  text 


539 


540 


Index 


Archetypes,  Charles  Lamb  on,  484 

"Archetypes,"  concept  of,  474 

Aristotle,  470,  483,  503,  534 

Arnold,  Elizabeth,  58,  60,  65,  67,  76 

Arnold,  Matthew,  214,  467,  493 

Art  and  Anxiety,  440*,  499 

Art  and  the  Artist,  21  A,  488 

The  Artist,  487 

Asceticism,  in  Kafka,  37 

Asch,  S.  E.,  496 

Asclepius,  528,  533-534 

The  Assignation,  65,  76 

Athenian  age  contrasted  with  mod- 
ern, 496-497 

Athenian  tragedy,  history  of,  470 

Atridae,  521 

Auden,  W.  H.,  473,  493,  505 

Austen,  Cassandra,  218,  224 

Austen,  Jane,  218-225 

Austen  sisters,  identification  between, 
224 

Australia,  folk  tale  in,  334  et  sqq. 

Aytre's  journey,  402-404 

Aytre  qui  perd  Vhabitude,  403 

Bacchae,  471 

Bacchus,  cult  of,  383 

The  Bachelor's  Delight,  466 

Bachofen,  383,  384 

Balder  the  Beautiful,  462 

Balnibarbi,  continent  of,  122 

Bankalangas,  335 

Bassanio  scene,  symbolism  in,  161, 

162 
Bates,  D.,  337 
Bates,  Master,  121 
Baudelaire,  402,  488,  489,  505 
Baudouin,  Charles,  478,  482,  489 
Beardsley,  458 
The  Beast  in  the  Jungle,  93 
Beatrice  (Dante),  478 
Beer,  Thomas,  494 
Before  the  Law,  52 
Beggar's  Opera,  208 
Beggar's  Opera,  and  child  sentiment, 

189-190 
Belle  Helene,  163-164 
Bendeman,  analysis  of  name,  44 
Bergler,  Edmund,  175 


Bergson,  Henri,  475 

Bernfeld,  S.,  284 

Beyond  the  Pleasure  Principle,  485, 

503 
Biographia  Literaria,  484 
Biographical  plots,  Kafka,  24 
The  Black  Cat,  60,  67-68,  69,  75,  76, 

82,  85,  86 
Blake,  William,  402,  471 
Blanchot,  Maurice,  406,  407 
Blin,  Georges,  401 
The  Blue  Belt,  340-341 
Blue  Rider  group,  -353 
Blume,  Peter,  425 
Bodkin,  Maude,  473-501 
Boheme  of  Cafe  du  Dome,  353 
Book  of  the  Dead,  378,  379 
The  Bostonians,  90 
Bow,  of  Philoctetes,  524 
Bowra,  C.  M.,  535 
Bracchi,  Ceccino,  322 
Braque,  349 
Brierley,  Marjorie,  447 
Briffault,  Robert,  497 
Brill,  A.  A.,  442,  452,  487 
Brobdingnag,  131 
Brocke,  L.  von,  169 
Bronte,  Charlotte,  494 
Brontes,  493 

Brooks,  Cleanth,  237,  239-240,  241 
Brooks,  Van  Wyck,  407,  493 
The  Brothers  Karamazov,  3-20 
Brown,  Alec,  498 
Brown,  J.  F.,  496 
Buddenbrooks,  374 
Buffon,  391 

Burke,  Kenneth,  412*,  473,  483,  494 
The  Burrow,  31 
Burrow,  Trigant,  414 
Butler,  Samuel,  194 
Byron,  219,  469,  487 
Byronic  theme  and  Victorian  morals, 

210 
Byzantine  art  and  Middle  Ages,  346 
Byzantine  paintings,  360 

Caesar,  384 

Cain,  478 

Caldwell,  Erskine,  490 


Index 


541 


Camus,  Albert,  247  et  sqq. 

Candida,  523 

Carpe  diem  theme,  253 

Carroll,  Lewis,  see  Dodgson,  Charles 

L. 
The  Cask  of  Amontillado,  60 
The  Castle,  44 
Caterpillar  {Wonderland),  religious 

implications  of,  198 
Catharsis,  theory  of,  483 
Catterina  (cat),  85 
Caucus  Race,  and  Natural  Selection, 

187 
Cavalieri,  Tommaso  de,  322,  324 
Celine,  395 

Cezanne,  348,  355,  359,  452 
Chagall,  348 

Chantilly,  as  David  Poe,  73 
Chapman,  John  Jay,  522,  533 
Charleston,  S.C.,  Henry  James  on, 

102 
Chateubrun,  522 
Cheshire  cat,  as  detached  observer, 

201,  209 
Child  as  Swain,  186  et  sqq. 
Childhood  memory,  Kafka,  45-47 
Cinderella,  162,  462 
Civil  War  (English),  191 
Civil  War,  and  Henry  James,  92-111 

passim 
Civilization  and  Its  Discontents,  476 
Classical  Philology,  535 
Clemens,  Samuel,  90,  172 
Clemm,  Mrs.,  85 
Cleon,  525 

Cleopatra,  383,  384,  478 
"Close-reading,"  459 
Coleridge,  191,  281,  402,  427,  429, 

432,  434,  477,  478,  482,  484, 

491,492 
Coleridge  on  Imagination,  484 
Collective     Unconscious,     Jungian, 

462,  475,  497 
Colonna,  Vittoria,  322 
Common    humanity,    Neoptolemus 

recognition  of,  537 
Composite  images,  in  Poe,  76 
A  Confession,  5 
"Configuration,"  term,  482 


Contributions  to  the  Psychology  of 

Love,  485 
The  Convalescent,  533 
Copernicus,  360 
Coppelius,  153  et  sqq. 
Cordelia,  as  figure  of  death,  161 
Coriolanus,  522 
Cornford,  Francis,  497 
"Court"  symbol,  in  Kafka,  140 
Cowley,  Malcolm,  230 
Cowper,  398,  402 
The  Crack-up,  407 
Crane,  Hart,  471 

Crime  and  punishment,  in  Kafka,  22 
The  Critic,  214 
Croce,  Benedetto,  456 
Cubism,  349,  456 

Dadaism,  350,  353 

Dahlberg,  Edward,  494 

Dali,  348 

Danhardt,  334 

Dante,  467,  470,  477 

Dapertutto,  153  et  sqq. 

Darwin,  186,  392,  422,  512 

Das  Inzest-Motiv  in  Dichtung  und 
Sage,  329 

Das  Liebesleben  des  Genies,  327 

Davis,  Robert  Gorham,  440  *,  499- 
500 

De  Anima,  483 

Death,  goddess  of,  164 

"Death,"  in  Henry  James,  89 

Death  in  Venice,  373 

Dedalus,  Stephen,  392 

The  Defeat  of  Baudelaire,  489-490 

Deianeira's  robe,  523 

De  la  Mare,  Walter,  185 

Delany,  Simon  Dedalus,  394,  396 

Delilah,  478 

Delusion  and  Dream  in  Wilhelm  Jen- 
sen's "Gradiva,"  487 

Democracy  and  Natural  Selection, 
187 

DeQuincey,  402 

The  Descent  into  the  Maelstrom,  62 

The  Devil's  Three  Golden  Hairs,  341 

Dewey,  John,  theories  of,  446 

Die  Hermannsschlacht,  178 


542 


Index 


Dingley,  Rebecca,  114 
Dionysiac  religion,  383,  519 
Directions  to  the  Nurse,  117 
Disease  and  art,  in  Kafka,  52-53 
Disraeli,  in  Loo  king-Glass,  187-188 
Disraeli,  as  Unicorn,  188 
Diwan,  387 

Do  These  Bones  Live,  494 
Dodgson,  Charles  Lutwidge,  185  et 

sqq. 
Dodgson  and  Poe,  216 
Don  Juan  and  the  Double,  488 
Don  Quixote,  413 
Donne,  John,  191,  465,  466 
Doorkeeper  Legend,  41 
Dormouse,  206 
Dostoevsky,  Fyodor,  3-20,  172,  179, 

231,  297,  299,  451,  463,  512, 

516,517 
Dostoevsky  and  Parricide,  3  *,  486 
Dostojewski  am  Roulette,  15 
Dostojewski    und    die    Vatertotung, 

297,  299 
Dowie,  tale  of,  337-338 
Dream    psychology    and    Schopen- 
hauer, 377 
Dream  of  the  letter,  Kafka,  42-43 
Dream   story   sequences,   in   Kafka 

diaries,  33 
"Dream  technique,"  Kafka's,  27,  50, 

136 
Dreams,  and  Kafka,  21-53 
Dreamwork,  and  The  Trial,  136-145 
Drei  Meister,  16 
Dubuffet,  358 

Duchess  {Alice)  as  flirt,  203-204 
Dupin,  as  Poe,  70 
Durkheim,  Emile,  497 

Earwicker,  391,  396 
Easter  Greeting,  191 
Eden,  Emily,  218 
Education  Sentimentale,  466 
Ego: 

domain  of,  375-376 

repudiation  of,  356 

submissive,  53 
The  Ego  and  the  Mechanisms  of  De- 
fense, 449 


Ehrenfels,  von,  495 

Eidelberg,  Ludwig,  175 

Einstein,  Albert,  360,  495 

Eleonora,  67 

Eleusinian  mysteries,  531 

Eliezer,  381 

Eliot,  T.  S.,  402,  403,  404,  406,  457, 

471,  479,  496,  498 
Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo,  90 
Emma,  219,  220-221  et  sqq. 
Empson,  William,   185  *,  283,  482, 

491,  492 
An  Enemy  of  the  People,  522 
England,  Henry  James  identification 

with,  99,  108 
The  Eolian  Harp,  All 
Erintja,  338 
Eros  and  Thanatos  in  myth  and  folk 

tale,  345 
Erynyes,  162 
Esau,  386 
Essays    in    Applied   Psychoanalysis, 

488 
The  Eternal  City  (painting),  425 
Ethics  (Hartman),  497 
Eumenides,  496 
Eureka,  61 
Euripides,  468,  470-471,  478,  521, 

524,  533 
Eurydice,  478 
Existentialism,  393 
Expression  in  America,  494 
"Expressionism,"  351 


Failure  symbols,  in  Kafka,  25 

Fairbairn,  W.  D.  R.,  447,  451 

The  Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher,  58, 

69,82 
Family  Reunion,  496 
Fancy  and  Imagination,  467 
Fantasy,  white  horse,  in  Kafka,  34- 

42 
Faraday,  talks  for  children,  196 
Fate,  three  women  theme  of,  162 
Father,  of  Kafka,  25,  31,  34,  37,  44 

et  seq. 
Faulkner,  William,  463,  490 
Faust,  307,  386,  387,  389 


Index 


543 


Fenelon,  522 

Ferenczi,  181 

Fiedler,  Leslie  A.,  454  * 

Finnegans  Wake,  391,  405 

Fitzgerald,  F.  Scott,  219,  407,  469 

Flaubert,  303,  391,  398,  466 

Flying  Dutchman,  as  guilty  father, 

76 
Forces  in  Modern  British  Literature, 

498 
Ford,  Charles,  122 
Forster,  E.  M.,  493 
The  Fountain,  479 
Formulations    Regarding    the    Two 

Principles  in  Mental  Function' 

ing,  485 
Four-and-Twenty  Hours  in  a  Wom- 
an's Life,  16-17 
Frazer,  J.  G.,  497,  498 
Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry, 

412  *,  494 
Freud,  Anna,  449,  451 
Freud,  Sigmund 

attitude  to  philosophy,  378 

on  Dostoevsky,  297 

as   enemy  of  Victorian  outlook, 

362 
and  Jungian  psychology,  476 
on  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  277-278 
reliance  on  quotation  from,  272 
on  "sexual  enlightment,"  243,  244 
on  the  uncanny,  28,  30 
Freud  and  the  Future,  369  *,  499 
Freud's  Position  in  the  History  of 

Modern  Thought,  499 
Freudian  aspects  of  Alice,  199-200 
Freudian  theory,   Bodkin's  use  of, 

481-482 
Freudianism  and  the  Literary  Mind, 

498 
Fuller,  Margaret,  494 
Futurists,  353 

Galileo,  360 

Galton,  481,  488 

The  Gash,  401 

Gasset,  Ortega  y,  356,  384 

Gauguin,  355 


A  General  Introduction  to  Psycho- 
analysis, 485 

Geometric  art,  359 

Germ  plasm  theory,  Weismann's,  479 

Gestalt  school,  482,  494,  495-496 

Gestaltqualitat,  495 

The  Ghost  of  Henry  James,  89*,  490, 
506 

The  Giantess,  488 

Gibogu,  myth  of,  344 

Gide,  Andre,  404,  418,  522,  532,  533 

Gilbert,  W.  S.,  213 

Gillen,  334 

Giotto,  360 

Glover,  Edward,  273,  447 

God,  idea  of,  379 

Goddess-mothers,  in  Homer,  478 

God's  Little  Acre,  490 

Goethe,  176,  177,  281,  307,  325,  386, 
387,  389,  469,  478,  534 

The  Gold-Bug,  59,  62,  66,  67,  70, 
85 

The  Golden  Bough,  497 

Goldenweiser,  Alexander,  482,  497 

Goldsmith,  Oliver,  189,  191 

Gonzago  Play  Scene,  148 

Gosse,  Edmund,  107 

Goya,  288 

Gradiva,  282,  486,  487 

Graves,  Robert,  492 

The  Great  Gatsby,  476 

The  Great  Hoaxing,  386 

Greece,  audience  attitude  in,  390-391 

Greece,  educative  ideology  of,  320- 
321 

Greek  art,  320-321 

Greene,  Graham,  471 

Gregory,  Horace,  499 

Griswold,  Rufus,  attack  on  Poe,  87 

Grosz,  George,  348 

"Guilt-haunted  wanderer,"  478 

Guilt,  in  Kafka,  22 

Guilt  obsessions,  of  Swift,  401 

Gulliver,  114-118,  123,  195,  196, 
395,  396 

Haggard,  Rider,  466 
Hamartia,  concept  of,  483 


544 


Index 


Hamlet,  146-150,  458,  478,  482,  485, 
499,  500 
as  autobiography,  488 
changes  in  story,  146,  147 
conflict  of,  276 
and  Mad  Hatter,  217 
murder  of  father  in,  13,  14 

Hansel  and  Gretel,  AAA 

"Happy  Ending,"  as  ersatz  solution, 
471 

Harrison,  Jane,  497 

Hartman,  Nicolai,  285,  497 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel,  226  et  sqq., 
281 

Hawthorne  as  Poet,  230 

H.  C.  Everybody,  475 

Health  and  neuroses,  515 

Hedonistic  value  system,  354 

Hegel,  393,  420 

Heidegger,  393,  407 

Hemingway,  xxi,  219,  490,  523 

Herman  Melville,  494 

Herman  Melville,  Mariner  and  Mys- 
tic, 493 

The  Hero,  425,  488 

Hero,  metamorphosis  of,  336 

Hero,  in  myth  and  folk  tale,  333  et 
sqq. 

High  Table,  at  Oxford,  194,  217 

"Hilfsalte,"  341 

Hoffman,  Frederick  J.,  498 

Hoffmann,  E.  T.  A.,  55,  153  et  sqq. 

Hop-Frog,  61 

Horace,  484 

Houseman,  A.  E.,  529 

Houyhnhnms,  395,  396 

How  Bigger  Was  Born,  449 

Hubris,  of  literary  profession,  403 

Huch,  Ricarda,  297,  300 

Hugo,  Victor,  372 

Human  relationships,  failure  of,  in 
Kafka,  24-25 

Humanism,  and  the  unconscious,  388 

Humpty  Dumpty,  on  glory,  193 

Huxley,  Thomas,  186,  188 

Hyman,  Stanley  Edgar,  473* 

A  Hymne  to  God  the  Father,  465 


/  Want  to  Know  Why,  237-246 

Ibsen,  316,  374 

Id: 

domain  of,  375 
impulses  of,  357 
replacement  of  by  ego,  389 

Identification,  with  subject,  394 

Illness,  conception  of,  515 

Illness,  and  the  human  condition,  516 

Ilpirtja,  335 

Imagery,  in  Kafka,  34 

Imago,  380 

Imitatio  dei  of  Joseph,  387 

Imitation,  of  artists,  514 

Impressionism,  353-354,  360 

"Impressionism,"  term,  351 

In  the  Penal  Colony,  49 

In  Quest  of  Olympus,  425 

Incest,  dreams  of,  534 

The    Incest-Motive    in    Poetry    and 
Legend,  488 

Incest  themes,  in  Romantic  Move- 
ment, 464 

Indatoa,  335 

Infantilism,  386-387 

"Inferiority  complex,"  term,  476 

Inheritance  of  acquired  characteris- 
tics, 479 

Insomnia,  32,  36 

Inspector    (Kafka's)    as   humanistic 
conscience,  139 

"Intention"  in  poetry,  458 

Intentional  Fallacy,  458 

The  Interpretation   of  Dreams,   35, 
55-56,  59,  69,  329,  485,  491 

Introductory  Lectures,  515 

Introspection,  Bodkin's  use  of,  481 

Introspection,  in  Kafka,  22 

Ion,  483 

Ishtar,  383,  384 

Island  of  Glubbdubdrib,  119 

Isolation,  emotional,  49 

Itana,  338 

Jabberwocky,  as  code  language,  196- 

197 
James,  Henry,  89-111,  207,  281,  416, 

490-491,  499,  510,  513 


Index 


545 


James,  Henry,  definitive  edition,  105- 

106 
James,   Henry,   "obscure   hurt"   of, 

104,  507 
James,  Henry,  Sr.,  90-91  et  seq. 
James,  Robertson,  94 
James,  Wilky,  94 
James,  William,  90,  91,  101 
"Jane  Austen's  myth,"  220 
Jensen,  Wilhelm,  282,  486 
Jesus,  and  myth,  385 
Jolas,  Eugene,  476 
The  Jolly  Bachelor,  466 
The  Jolly  Corner,  synopsis  of,  103- 

104 
Jones,  Ernest,  146*,  181,  477,  482, 

485,  489,  499,  500 
Joseph  novels,  373,  380,  381,  386, 

387,  499 
Journal  to  Stella,  124,  126,  396 
Joyce,  James,   391,   392,   396,  405, 

469,  471,  475,  476,  498,  499 
The  Judgment  {The  Verdict),  33,  37 
Julius  Caesar,  488 
Jung,  Dr.  Carl  G.,  273,  377-378,  379, 

462,  472,  474,  475,  481,  493, 

497 
Jungian  concepts,  475 
Jungian  concepts  and  fascism,  477 
"Junker"  spirit,  166,  167,  179 

K.,  Joseph,  arrest  of,  37-38,  136 

K.,  Joseph,  Kafka  as,  51 

Kaalurwonga,  337 

Kaethchen  of  Heilbronn,  176 

Kafka,  Franz,  21-53,  136-145,  231, 
393-394,  451,  498 
biographical  plots  of,  24 
dream  of  the  letter,  42-43 
engagement  to  F.  B.,  31,  34,  37, 

42,44 
relationship  to  father,  25,  31,  34 
symbolism  of,  189 

Kali,  162 

Keats,  468,  492 

Kierkegaard,  371,  399,  451 

King  Lear,  161,  482,  485,  495 

Kipling,  Rudyard,  218 

Klee,  347 


Klein,  Melanie,  447 

Kleist,  Heinrich  von,  165-182,  300 

phimosis  of,  169 

rejection  of  by  caste,  179-182 

trip  to  Berlin,  170 

trip  to  Wuerzburg,  169 
Kleist,  Ulrike  von,  170 
Knave  of  Hearts,  trial  of,  198 
Knight,  G.  Wilson,  473,  482 
Koffka,  Kurt,  495 
Kohler,  Wolfgang,  482,  495 
Koogurda,  337 

Kostyleff,  theory  of  poetry  of,  492 
Kris,  Ernst,  51,  271*  et  sqq.,  300 
Krutch,  Joseph  Wood,  494 
Kubie,  Lawrence  S.,  490 
Kubla  Khan,  symbols  in,  482,  492 
Kulaia,  335 
Kuninjatu,  335 

La  Belle  Dame  Sans  Merci,  492 

Laforgue,  Rene,  489 

Lamb,  Charles,  32,  484,  502,  513- 

514,  533 
Langbridge,  Rosamond,  494 
Lange-Eichbaum,  307,  311 
"Language  authentique,"  search  for, 

407 
La  Parisienne,  523 
Lawrence,  D.  H,  479,  498,  499 
Lear,  Edward,  213 
Leavis,  Q.  D.,  230-231,  473 
Leger,  350 
Leltja,  338 
Le  Misanthrope,  522 
Le  mythe  de  Sisyphe,  247,  248 
Lenk,  Emil,  327 
Leonardo   da  Vinci,    172,   277-278, 

280,  300,  485,  486,  514-515 
Lessing,  522,  531 
Letter,  Kafka  dream  of,  42-43 
Letters,  Arnold-Poe,  60 
Letters,  Henry  James,  106 
Letters,    Kleist,    169-170,    172-173, 

180 
The  Letter  to  My  Father,  31,  46 
Levin,  Kurt,  496 
Lewis,  C.  S.,  462 
Lewis,  Day,  473 


546 


Index 


Lewis,  Wyndham,  204 

Lewisohn,  Ludwig,  494 

Leyden  Jar,  166 

Leyen,  von  der,  333 

Libido,  as  basic  category,  416 

Liddell,  Alice,  186 

Life  and  Character  of  Dr.  Swift,  116 

"Life-in-Death"  of  Ancient  Mariner, 

72 
Ligeia,  67,  72,  82,  85 
Lilliputian  enemies  of  Swift,  396 
The  Literature  of  Horror,  490 
Literary  creation,  theory  of,  391 
Little  Herr  Friedemann,  373 
Little  Red  Riding  Hood,   440-453, 

500 
"Live-in-Death    Mother,"    series    of 

Poe,  58 
"Lived  myth,"  383 
Lohengrin,  488 
Lohse,  Henry,  172 
Lombroso,  theory  of,  310-311,  358 
Looking-Glass,  ideas  about  progress 

in,  187-188 
Lost  Horizon,  466 
Love  and  Friendship,  219 
Love's  Alchemie,  465 
Lowenfeld,  Henry,  292* 
Lowes,  John  L.,  478,  482 
Lubbock,  Percy,  106 
"Ludwig  Article,"  87 
Lyrical  Ballads,   195 

Macheath     {Beggar's    Opera)     and 

child  sentiment,  189 
MacLeish,  Archibald,  424,  456 
Macmurray,  John,  497 
Mad  Hatter,  Hamlet  influence  on, 

217 
Mad  Tea  Party,  206 
Madonna  with  St.  Anne  (Leonardo), 

278,  280 
The  Magic  Mountain,  373 
Mahler,  Gustav,  152,  154 
Malaprop,  Mrs.,  208 
Malinowski,  423,  479 
Mallarme,  355,  406,  407 
Malpakara,  335,  338 
Malpunga,  342-343 


The  Man  of  the  Crowd,  as  guilty 

father,  76 
"Man  of  the  Crowd,"  in  Poe,  60 
The  Man  Who  Lived  Underground, 

499 
Mann,  Thomas,  27,  300,  369*,  471, 

498,  499,  505 
Mansfield  Park,  219,  220,  222,  224 
"Marchen,"  333  et  sqq. 
Marchen,  and  Australian  folk  tales, 

336 
Marett,  R.  R.,  497 
Marinetti,  353,  357 
Mark  Twain,  172 

Mark  Twain,  on  The  Bostonians,  90 
Marlowe,  147 
Martin,  Alexander  R.,  451 
Marunogere,  Kiwai  myth  of,  343 
Marxists,  and  Freudian  theory,  420, 

435-436,  443,  453 
The  Masque  of  the  Red  Death,  62, 

63 
Matisse,  456 
Maud,  parody  of,  211 
Maugham,  Somerset,  222 
The  Mauve  Decade,  494 
Mead,  Margaret,  429 
The  Meaning  of  Dreams,  492 
Melville,  231,  281,  466 
Memoir  to  Poe's  work,  Griswold's, 

87 
Memoires  of  Scriblerus,    114,    117, 

121 
Meniere's  disease,  and  Swift,  115 
The  Mentality  of  Apes,  482 
"Merchant,"  in  Kafka,  44 
Merchant  Messner  sketch,  Kafka,  42 

et  seq. 
Merchant  of  Venice,  161 
Messerschmidt,  Franz  Xavier,  300 
Messianic  sense  of  Jesus,  385 
Messner-Kette  story,  Kafka's,  42  et 

seq. 
Metaphor,  Kafka's,  31 
The  Metamorphosis,  23 
Metzengerstein,  58,  62 
Meursault   {The  Stranger),  247   et 

sqq. 
Michelangelo,  307,  322,  324 


Index 


547 


Milton,  458,  469,  477 

Mind  as  poetry-making  organ,  493 

Miro,  348,  350 

Mock  Turtle,  213 

Mock  Turtle,  on  education,  208 

Modest  Proposal,  131-132,  444 

Modigliani,  349 

Moguru,  344 

Moiras,  162 

Mona  Lisa,  467 

Mondrian,  347,  350,  359,  463 

Monsters,  Kafka's,  28-31 

Montagu,  M.  F.  Ashley,  342 

Moore,  Marianne,  463 

Morella,  67,  85 

Morgan,  Charles,  479 

Moses  and  Monotheism,  479 

Mother  Goose's  Melodies,  189 

Mother-imagos,  478 

"Mother-as-Landscape,"     series     of 

Poe,  59 
Mozart,  160 
Mumford,  Lewis,  493 
"Murdered  Mother,"  series  of  Poe, 

60 
The  Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue, 

60,  62,  69,  70,  71,  73-75,  77,  80, 

82 
Murray,  Gilbert,  464,  497 
Muruntu,  335 

Muse-mother,  Milton's,  478 
Musset,  Alfred  de,  300 
My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux,  226 

et  sqq. 
The  Mystery  of  Marie  Roget,  70,  79 
Mystery  plays,  386 
"Mystery  Poems"  of  Coleridge,  432- 

434 
Mysticism,  European,  379 
The  Myth  of  the  Birth  of  the  Hero, 

487-488 
Myth  of  the  sick  artist,  505,  506 
Mythen-marchen,  evolution  of,  333- 

334 
Mythical  monsters,  484 
Mythos  of  the  artist,  461 
Mythos  and  "plot,"  470 


Nanananas,  335 

Napoleon  as  Charlemagne,  385 

Narcissus,  121 

The  Narrative  of  Arthur  Gordon 
Pym,  59,  66,  68,  69 

Native  Son,  447-449 

A  Natural  History  of  the  Aesthetic 
Transaction,  446 

Natural  Selection,  and  Caucus  Race, 
187 

Naturmarchen,  334 

"Negative  capability,"  468 

Nessus  robe,  535 

Neurosis  as  an  activity,  516 

Neurosis  as  a  wound,  516 

New  Introductory  Lectures,  485 

Newbury,  John,  189 

New  Guinea  myths,  343 

New  Introductory  Essays  in  Psycho- 
analysis, 374-375 

Newman,  John  Henry,  213 

Newsweek,  on  The  Stranger,  262 

Newton,  360,  512 

Ngali,  338 

Nietzche,  281,  314,  371,  372,  377 

Nominalism,  461 

Nordau,  Max,  504 

Norse,  162 

N orthanger  Abbey,  219,  222,  223 

Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother,  91,  92, 
94-95,  98,  107 

"Nothing  but"  fallacy,  494 

Novalis,  371 

Nutt,  Alfred,  488 

O'Brien,  Justin,  248 

Ode  to  Intimations,  191 

Oedipus  Archetype,  466 

Oedipus  Coloneus,  529 

Oedipus  complex,  matrilineal  variant 
of,  479 

Oedipus  complex  in  Hamlet,  477 

Oedipus  Rex,  13,  222 

Offenbach,  Jacques,  151  et  sqq. 

On  English  Poetry,  492 

On  the  Psychology  of  the  Older 
School  of  Biography,  381 

On  the  Relation  of  Analytical  Psy- 
chology to  Poetic  Art,  474 


548 


Index 


On  the  Sanity  of  True  Genius,  502 

Oppenheim,  James,  476 

The  Origin  of  Species,  186 

Original  Sin,  of  children,  193 

Orlando,  479 

Orpheus,  468 

Osgood,  Mrs.,  87 

Othello,  482 

Ovid,  147 

Oxford,  Dodgson  at,  186 

Oxford,  High  Table  at,  194 

Oxford,  as  White  Queen,  214 

Oxford  Movement,  215 

Paget,  Sir  Richard,  197 

Pain,  and  the  artist,  514 

Paradise  Lost,  478 

Parain,  Brice,  406 

Parcae,  162 

Paris,  France,  and  World  War  I,  353 

Parva  Naturalia,  483 

Pascal,  281,  400,407,  512 

The  Passion,  symbols  of,  212 

A  Passionate  Pilgrim,  100 

Pastoral,  mock,  189 

Pastoral,  versions  of,  193 

Pastoral  Elegy  as  Archetypes,  464 

Pastoral  poem,  Wordsworth,   193 

Pastoral  tradition,   186 

Pathography  tradition,  487 

Paulhan,  Jean,  403 

Pavlov,  492 

Peau  d'Ane,  67 

Pen,  Pencil  and  Poison,  210 

Penthesilea,  174 

Peripateia,  concept  of,  483 

Persuasion  (Austen),  219  et  sqq. 

Pfuel,  Ernst  von,  168,  173,  181 

Phaedra,  478 

Phaedrus,  83 

"Phenomenological"  psychology,  494 

Philoctetes,  109,  505,  507,  508,  518, 

521  et  sqq. 
Philoctetes  at  Troy,  521 
Philosophy  of  the  Unconscious,  428 
Picasso,  349,  456 
Pilgrim  of  the  Apocalypse,  499 
Pilot's   boy   as   scapegoat    (Ancient 

Mariner),  433 


Pindupi,  338 

Pissarro,  351 

The  Pit  and  the  Pendulum,  61,  80- 
81 

Pitjentara,  337 

Plato,  83,  281,  321,  352,  390,  391, 
463,  483,  504,  523,  536 

Piatt,  Arthur,  533 

Plaut,  311 

Pleasure  principle,  375,  376 

Pliny,  148 

Plumed  Serpent,  479 

Plutarch,  383,  384,  531 

Poe,  David,  65,  73 

Poe,  Edgar  Allen,  54-88,  216,  494 
heroines  and  mother  images  of, 

58 
Tenniel  illustrations  for,  216 
women  in,  65 

Poete  maudit  as  Archetype,  468 

The  Poetic  Mind,  491 

Poetic  Unreason,  492 

The  Poetics,  483 

Poetry  and  Dreams,  49 1 

Poetry  as  an  Oral  Outlet,  442-443 

Pollock,  Jackson,  463 

Pope,  Alexander,  118,  190,  398,  467, 
487 

Porche,  490 

Porte  d'enfer  (Rodin),  307 

Portia  scenes,  symbolism  in,  161 

Portrait  of  the  Artist,  391 

Pound,  Ezra,  403,  404,  463,  471 

Power,  of  the  artist,  514 

Practical  Criticism,  481 

Prayers  for  Stella,  397 

Prescott,  Frederick  Clarke,  491 

Prevost,  404 

Pride  and  Prejudice,  219,  220,  221, 
224 

Priest  (Kafka's)  as  humanistic  con- 
science, 139 

Prince  of  Homburg,  178-179 

Principles   of   Topological  Psychol- 
ogy, 496 

Process  and  Reality,  497 

Productive  Thinking,  495 

Prose  style,  Swift's,  400 

Proserpine,  478 


Index 


549 


Proust,  281,  404 

Psychoanalysis  and  Aesthetics,  482, 

489 
Psychoanalysis  and  Criticism,  492 
Psychoanalysis  as  science  of  tropes, 

493 
Psychoanalytic  Explorations  in  Art, 

51 
Psychological  Criticism  and  Drama- 
tic Conventions,  480 
Psychological  novel,  26 
"Psychological  truth,"  372 
Psychologie  der  Kunst,  313 
Psychology  and  Art  Today,  493 
Psychology  and  Poetry,  475 
Puns: 

in  Donne,  465 

Freudian  emphasis,  430 

in  literature,  465-466 

sexual,  416 
The  Purloined  Letter,  70 

"Queen  of  Hearts  and  Marchioness 
of  Mock  Turtles,"  213 

Queen  of  Hearts  as  uncontrolled 
animal  passion,  185 

The  Quest  for  Salvation  in  an  An- 
cient and  a  Modern  Play,  496, 
497 

Raglan,  Lord,  425,  488 
The  Railroad  of  Kalda,  24-25 
Rank,   Otto,   274,   276,   306*,  418, 

476,  487 
The  Raven,  86 
Read,  Herbert,  492-493 
Reading  Poems,  458,  465 
Reality  and  the  ego,  376 
The  Red  and  the  Black,  179 
The  Red  Death,  61,  62 
Red  King  and  Alice,  197 
Red  Queen,  197 

Red  Queen,  as  chastity  symbol,  212 
The  Relation  of  the  Poet  to  Day- 

Dreaming,  485 
Religion    and   morality,   origins   of, 

382 
Rembrandt,  307,  350 
Renaissance,  360 


The  Republic,  352,  483,  536 
Requiem  (Mozart),  160 
Resolution  and  Independence,  193 
"Revolt  against  the  Father,"  series 

of  Poe,  60 
Ribot,  489 
Richards,  I.  A.,  455,  457,  481,  484, 

492,  494 
Richmond,  Mrs.,  87 
Rilke,  354 
Rimbaud,  505 
Ritual  transmission  of  Archetypes, 

498 
Rivers,  W.  H.  R.,  492 
Rodin,  307 

Roheim,  Geza,  333*,  482 
Roman  Church  as  mother,  466 
Rosalie,  effect  of  birth  on  Poe,  66,  86 
Rosenzweig,  Saul,  89*,  490-491,  499, 

506-507 
Rouault,  452 
Royster,  Elmira,  76 
Ruehle,  Otto  von,  168 
Ruskin,  402 

Sacrifice  and  power,  507  et  sqq. 

Sadism,  49,  84-86,  337,  401 

Saeva  indignatio  of  Swift,  396 

Samsa,  Gregor,  51 

Sanctuary,  490 

The  Sanity  of  Genius,  484 

Sappho,  299 

Satire,  social,  in  Kafka,  23 

Saxo-Belleforest  Hamlet,  146 

Scepticisms:  Notes  on  Contemporary 
Poetry,  491 

Schiller,  302,  306,  307 

Schizophrenics,  paintings  of,  358 

Schnitzler,  353 

Schopenhauer,  Arthur,  371,  374, 
376,  428 

Schrecklichkeit,  of  Prussian  milita- 
rism, 172 

Science  and  philosophy,   378-379 

Scott,  Walter,  218 

Scriblerus,  Dr.  Martin,  120 

The  Secret  of  Swedenborg,  90 

Sense  and  Sensibility,  219,  220,  223, 
224 


550 


Index 


Sexual  impotence,  25,  59,  94 
Sexual    observation,    theme    of    in 

Kafka,  46-47 
Sexual  puns,  416 
Shakespeare,  146,  174,  231,  281,  322, 

324,  392,  462,  470,  495 
Shaw,  Bernard,  222,  502 
Sharpe,  Ella  Freeman,  447,  449 
She,  466 

Shelley,  436,  456,  462,  482,  491,  493 
Sheridan,  208,  214 
Shelton,  Mrs.,  87 
Shew,  Mrs.,  87 

Sickness,  essential,  of  psyche,  516 
Silesius,  Angelus,  379 
Sir  Edmund  Orme,  100,  101 
Smart,  Christopher,  402 
Smith,  G.  Elliot,  497 
Social  History  of  Art,  360 
Socrates,  321 
Sonnets  (Baudelaire),  488 
Sonnets  (Michelangelo),  322 
Sonnets    (Shakespeare),    149,    322, 

465,  500 
Sophocles,  109,  222,  281,  468,  470, 

521,  522,  523,  529 
Soul  as  "giver  of  the  given,"  380,  386 
A  Special  Type  of  Choice  of  Object 

Made  by  Men,  243 
Spencer,  Herbert,  216,  334 
Squire,  Sir  John,  218 
Stanard,  Mrs.,  65,  76 
Steinbeck,  John,  406 
Stekel,  311,  417-418,  475,  476 
Stella,  113,  117,  126,  129,  134 
Stendhal,  179,  493 
Stephen,  Leslie,  391 
Stevens,  Wallace,  462 
Stevenson,  R.  L.,  467 
Stoll,  E.  E.,  480 
The  Story  of  a  Year,  89,  96-101  et 

seq. 
Stove  monster,  Kafka's,  28-31 
Stowe,  Harriet  Beecher,  469 
The  Stranger,  247-267 
Strindberg,  355 

The  Structure  of  Religious  Experi- 
ence, 497 
Struldbrugs,  immortality  of,  115 


Subconscious,  credit  for  discovery, 

485,  503 
Summary  of  all  the  arguments  for 

and  against  my  marriage  (Kaf- 
ka), 45 
Supernatural  tales,  of  Henry  James, 

89,  100,  111 
Surrealism,    and    the    unconscious, 

364-365 
Surrealistic  paintings,  357 
Swedenborg,  90 
Swift,  Abigail,  115 
Swift,  Jonathan,  112-135,  196,  391, 

394-402,  407,  444 
Swinburne,  456 

Symbolics,  as  key  to  analysis,  461 
Symbolism,  in  Kafka,  23 
Symbolism     of     lost     connections, 

24 
Symbols,  of  failure,  25 
Symbols,  in  Red  Riding  Hood,  445 
Synecdochic  process,  427-428 
System  of  Epicurus,  130 

The  Tales  of  Hoffmann,  151-164 

Tammuz-Osiris  myth,  386,  478 

Tekeli-li,  as  totem  animal,  59,  66,  69 

Telemaque,  522 

The  Tell-Tale  Heart,  60,  65,  82 

Tempest,  462 

Temple,  Sir  John,   114 

Temple,  Sir  William,  113-126,  190 

Tennyson,  186 

Tenniel  illustrations,  210,  216 

Terror  dreams,  32 

"Thalamic  thinking,"  480 

Thanatos  principle,  482 

Thomas  and  Brown,  anthology  of, 

459,  465 
Thomas,  Dylan,  499 
Thoreau,  494 
Three   Bears,   462 
Three  Contributions  to  the  Theory 

of  Sex,  485 
Tiefenpsychologie,  382 
Tiger  Lily,  as  symbol,  212 
Time  Magazine,   on   The   Stranger, 

262 
Tindall,  William  York,  498 


Index 


551 


Tneera,  335 

Tolstoy,  Leo,  494 

Tomb  of  Julius  (Michelangelo),  307 

Tonio  Kroger,  372 

Totem  and  Taboo,  382,  485 

Tradition  and  the  Individual  Talent, 
458 

Transcendent  Speculations  on  Ap- 
parent Design  in  the  Fate  of  the 
Individual,  317 

The  Trial,  31,  37,  136  et  sqq. 

Trial,  of  Bigger  Thomas,  448 

Trial,  Knave  of  Hearts,  217 

Trilling,  Lionel,  32,  442,  443,  493, 
502* 

Trobrianders,  and  Oedipus  complex, 
479 

Troy,  William,  493 

Tsar,  Dostoevsky's  submission  to, 
12-13 

Tuberculosis,  of  Kafka,  22 

Types  and  individuals,  381 

Tyrants,  nameless,  23 

Ugly  Duchess  and  romantic  love,  213 
Unamuno,  Miguel,  413 
"Unauthentic  chatter,"  407 
The  Uncanny,  Freud  essay,  30 
Unconscious,   Victorian   attitude   to 

theory  of,  362  et  sqq. 
Understanding  Fiction,  239 
Unicorn    (Looking-Glass),   as    Dis- 
raeli, 188 
Uniqueness  of  artist's  mind,  517 
The  Unparalleled  Adventures  of  one 

Hans  Pfaal,   59 
An  Unwritten  Novel,  303 

Valdemar,  as  Poe  father,  76 

Valery,  400 

Van  Doren,  Mark,  494 

Vanessa,  117,  126,  129 

Van  Gogh,  288,  348,  355,  359 

Vasari,  324 

Votes  as  Poeta,  468 

Vaughan,  191 

The  Verdict  (The  Judgment),  33,  44 

Vergil,  478,  498 

Verhaeren,  478,  482,  489 


Verlaine,  354,  505 

Vienna,  19th  century,  354-355 

Vierundzwangziz  Stunden  aus  dem 

Leben  einer  Frau,  16-17 
Vico,  475 

Victorian  scholarship,  534 
Virginia  (Poe's),  58,  65,  67,  85 
Vivas,  Eliseo,  446,  452,  457 
Vocations,  and  the  unconscious,  511- 

512 
Vogel,  Henriette,  179 
Von  Hartmann,  428 
Von  Kleist,  Heinrich,  165-182 
Von  Kleist  family,  166 
Von  Zenge,  Wilhelmine,  167  et  sqq. 

Walrus  and  Carpenter,  216 
Wandering  Jew,  478 
Wandering  Jew,  as  guilty  father,  76 
Waring,  Jane,  126,  127,  133 
Warren,  Robert  Perm,  237,  239-241, 

471,  473 
Waste  Land,  479,  498 
We  are  Seven,  191 
Weaver,  Raymond,  493 
Wedekind,  355 
Weismann,  479 
Wertham,    Dr.    Frederic,    448-449, 

499 
Wertheimer,  Max,  495 
Werther,  387,  469 
Weston,  Jessie,  497 
What    is    the    Meaning   of   Ascetic 

Ideals?,  371 
What  Makes  Sammy  Run,  476 
The  Whippers,  in  The  Trial,  49 
Whistler,  James,  209 
Whitehead,  Alfred  N.,  497 
White  horse  sequence,  in  Kafka,  34- 

42 
White  Knight,  poem  of,  193 
White  Knight,  virtues  of,  195 
White  Rabbit  as  Mr.  Spooner,  199- 

200 
White  Queen  (Alice),  213-216 
Whitman,  Mrs.,  87 
Whitman,  Walt,  95,  494 
Wilberforce,  Bishop,   186 
Wild  Huntsman,  as  guilty  father,  76 


552 


Index 


Wilde,  Oscar,  173,  207,  209-210 

Wilhelm  Meister,  387 

William  Wilson,  70 

Wilson,  Edmund,  109,  248,  257-258, 
493,  505,  507,  508,  521* 

Wimsatt,  458 

Winckelmann,  531 

Wish,  instinctual,  38,  39,  40 

Wit  and  Its  Relation  to  the  Uncon- 
scious, 485 

Witches  and  Other  Night  Fears,  484 

Within  the  Rim,  106,  107 

Wonder  and  children,  196 

Woolf,  Virginia,  303,  479,  482 

Wordsworth,  191,  192,  193,  195, 
205,  206,  216,  429,  459,  493, 
522 

World  of  Ideas,  Platonic,  462 


World  War  I: 

effect  on  artists,  353  et  sqq. 

and  Henry  James,  94,  106,   107, 
108,  111 

homosexual  panic  during,  181 
The  World  as  Will  and  Idea,  374 
The  Wound  and  the  Bow,  109,  507, 

521* 
Wright,  Richard,  447-449,  499 
Wundt,  333 

Yahoos,  396  - 
Yeats,  406,  471 
Yumu,  337 

Zola,  Emile,  505 
Zweig,  Stefan,  16-17 


Date    Due 

.     ir-\r-\  A  r>\/ 


DATE  DUE 

DUE        RETURNED,        DUE         RETURNED 


WHhdravn  from  UF.  Surveyed  to  Internet  Archive        g£?| 


a  .  2j 


Art  and  psychoanalysis,  main 
801P564aC2 


3  15bZ  D3E55  MAES 


LAD 


.„»»•♦ *"s 


£i<  OF  ^       • 


^•w^m***' 


