•M[>S«l^^«^<^^«Ui«Wi«|^WS«^«t««|A^ 


Dounrf 
'eriodicaf   i288S8v5 


m 


This  Volume  is  for 
REFERENCE  USE  ONLY 


^tys?<rrstih^rrsvir)^r/stihrs\ir7Svir)rstir)^r)^ 


»  •       » 


•  •  ••• 

•  •  •    • 

'  •        •  ••• 


•  •     •• 


*  • 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


A  JOURNAL  DEVOTED  TO  THE 

SCIENTIFIC  AND  ENGINEERING 

ASPECTS     OF     ELECTRICAL 

COMMUNICATION 

EDITORS 
R.  W.  King  J.  O.  Perrine 

EDITORIAL  BOARD 

C.  F.  Craig  O.  E.  Buckley 

O.  B.  Blackwell  M.  J.  Kelly 

H.  S.  Osborne  A.  B.  Clark 

J.  J.  PiLLioD  F.  J.  Feely 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

AND 

INDEX 

VOLUME  XXVII 

1948 


AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 
NEW  YORK 


PRINTED  IN  U.  S.  A. 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XXVII,  1948 

Table  of  Contents 

January,  1948 

An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code  Modulation  System  of  Toll 

Quality — L.  A.  Meacham  and  E.  Peterson 1 

Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for  Pulse  Code  Modulation — 

R.  W.  Sears 44 

Metallic  Delay  Lenses—  Winston  E.  Kock 58 

A  Non-reflecting  Branching  Filter  for  Microwaves — W.  D.  Lewis  and 

L.  C.  Tillotson 83 

A  Note  on  a  Parallel-Tuned  Transformer  Design — V.  C.  Rideoiit 96 

Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise — S.  0.  Rice .   109 
Noise  in  Resistances  and  Electron  Streams — /.  R.  Pierce 158 

APRIL,  1948 

Microwave  Repeater  Research — H.  T.  Friis 183 

The  Measurement  of  Delay  Distortion  in  Microwave  Repeaters — 

D.  B.  Ring 247 

Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy — Radio  and  Wire  Applications— 

J.  R.  Davey  and  A .  L.  Matte 265 

Reflections  from  Circular  Bends  in  Rectangular  Wave  Guides — Matrix 

Theory— 5.  0.  Rice 305 

The  Approximate  Solution  of  Linear  Differential  Equsitions—  Marion 

C.  Gray  and  S.  A .  Schelkunof 350 

Potential  Coefl&cients  for  Ground  Return  Circuits — W.  H award  Wise.  .   365 

iii 

1288585  FEB  1  3  :349 


iv  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

JULY,  1948 

A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication — C.  E.  Shannon 379 

An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect  on  the 

Trunk  VlsLUt— Charles  Clos 424 

Spectra  of  Quantized  Signals — W.  R.  Bennett 446 

Analysis  and  Performance   of  Waveguide-Hybrid  Rings  for  Micro- 
waves— H.  T.  Budenhom 473 

Methods  of  Electromagnetic  Field  Anatysis— 5.  A.  Schelkunoff 487 

The  Evolution  of  the  Quartz  Crystal  Clock — Warren  A.  Harrison 510 

OCTOBER  1948 

Equivalent  Circuits  of  Linear  Active  Four-Terminal  Networks — 

L.  C.  Peterson 593 

A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication  (Concluded) — 

C.  E.  Shannon 623 

Transients  in  Mechanical  Systems — /.  T.  Muller 657 

Maximally-Flat  Filters  in  Wave  Guide — W.  W.  Mumford 684 

Transient  Response  of  an  FM  Receiver — M.  K.  Zinn 714 

Transverse  Fields  in  Traveling-Wave  Tubes — /.  R.  Pierce 732 


Index  to  Volume  XXVII 


B 


Beam  Transmission :  Metallic  Delay  Lenses,  Winston  E.  Kock,  page  58. 
Bennett,  W.  R.,  Spectra  of  Quantized  Signals,  page  446. 

Budenbom,  H.  T.,  Analysis  and  Performance  of  Wave  Guide  Hybrid  Rings  for  Micro- 
waves, page  473. 


Clock,  Quartz  Crystal,  The  Evolution  of  the,  Warren  A.  Marrison,  page  510. 

Clos,  Charles,  An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect  on  the 

Trunk  Plant,  page  424. 
Communication,  A  Mathematical  Theory  of,  C.  E.  Shannon,  pages  379-423;  623-656. 
Crystal  Clock,  Quartz,  The  Evolution  of  the,  Warren  A.  Marrison,  page  510. 


Davey,  J.  R.  and  A.  L.  Matte,  Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy — Radio  and  Wire  Applications, 

page  265. 
Delay  Distortion  in  Microwave  Repeaters,  The  Measurement  of,  D.  H.  Ring,  page  247. 
Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect  on  the  Trunk  Plant,  An  Aspect  of  the, 

Charles  Clos,  page  424. 
Differential  Equations,  Linear,  The  Approximate  Solution  of,  Marion  C.  Gray  and  S.  A . 

Schelkunof,  page  350. 
Distortion,  Delay,  in  Microwave  Repeaters,  The  Measurement  of,  D.  H.  Ring,  page  247. 

E 

Electromagnetic  Field  Analysis,  Methods  of,  S.  A.  Schelkunof,  page  487. 

Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for  Pulse  Code  Modulation,  R.  W.  Sears,  page  44. 

Electron  Streams,  Noise  in  Resistances  and,  /.  R.  Pierce,  page  158. 

Equations,  Linear  Differential,  The  Approximate  Solution  of,  Marion  C.  Gray  and  S.  A. 

Schelkunojff,  page  350. 
Equivalent  Circuits  of  Linear  Active  Four-Terminal  Networks,  L.  C.  Peterson,  page  593. 

F 

Field  Analysis,  Electromagnetic,  Methods  of,  5.  A.  Schelkimof,  page  487. 

Filter,  A  Non-reflecting  Branching,  for  Microwaves,  W.  D.  Lewis  and  L.  C.  Tillotson, 

page  83. 
Filters,  Maximally-Flat,  in  Wave  Guide,  W.  W.  Mumford,  page  684, 
Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy — Radio  and  Wire  Applications,  /.  R.  Davey  and  A .  L.  Matte, 

page  265. 
FM  Receiver,  Transient  Response  of  an,  M.  K.  Zinn,  page  714. 
Friis,  H.  T.,  Microwave  Repeater  Research,  page  183. 

G 

Gray,  Marion  C.  and  S.  A.  Schelknnof,  The  Approximate  Solution  of  Linear  Differential 

Equations,  page  350. 
Ground  Return  Circuits,  Potential  Coefficients  for,  W.  Howard  Wise,  page  365. 

H 

Hybrid  Rings  for  Microwaves,  Wave  Guide,  Analysis  and  Performance  of,  H.  T.  Buden- 
bom, page  473. 

K 

Kock,  Winston  E.,  Metallic  Delay  Lenses,  page  58. 

v 


vi  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Lenses,  Metallic  Delay,  Winston  E.  Kock,  page  58. 

Lewis,  W.  D.,  and  L.  C.  Tillotson,  A  Non-reflecting  Branching  Filter  for  Microwaves, 
page  83. 

M 

Marrison,  Warren  A.,  The  Evolution  of  the  Quartz  Crystal  Clock,  page  510. 

Matte,  A .  L.  and  J.  R.  Davey,  Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy — Radio  and  Wire  Applications, 

page  265. 
Meacham,  L.  A.  and  E.  Peterson,  An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code  Modulation 

System  of  Toll  Quality,  page  1. 
Mechanical  Systems,  Transients  in,  /.  T.  Muller,  page  657. 
Metallic  Delay  Lenses,  Winston  E.  Kock,  page  58. 
Microwave  Repeater  Research,  H.  T.  Friis,  page  183. 

.  Microwave  Repeaters,  The  Measurement  of  Delay  Distortion  in,  D.  H.  Ring,  page  247. 
Microwave  Transmission :  Metalhc  Delay  Lenses,  Winston  E.  Kock,  page  58. 
Microwaves:  Reflections  from   Circular  Bends  in  Rectangular  Wave  Guides — Matrix 

Theory,  6".  O.  Rice,  page  305. 
Microwaves,  A  Non-reflecting  Branching  Filter  for,  W.  D.  Lewis  and  L.  C.  Tillotson,  page 

83. 
Microwaves,  Analysis  and  Performance  of  Wave  Guide  Hybrid  Rings  for,  H.  T.  Budenbom, 

page  473. 
Modulation,  Pulse  Code,  Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for,  R.  W.  Sears,  page  44. 
Modulation  System  of  Toll  QuaHty,  Pulse  Code,  An  Experimental  Multichannel,  L.  A. 

Meacham  and  E.  Peterson,  page  1. 
Midler,  J.  T.,  Transients  in  Mechanical  Systems,  page  657. 
Mumford,  W.  W.,  Maximally-Flat  Filters  in  Wave  Guide,  page  684. 

N 

Networks,  Linear  Active  Four-Terminal,  Equivalent  Circuits  of,  L.  C.  Peterson,  page  593 
Noise,  Random,  Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus,  S.  O.  Rice,  page  109. 
Noise  in  Resistances  and  Electron  Streams,  /.  R.  Pierce,  page  158. 


Peterson,  E.  and  L.  A.  Meacham,  An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code  Modulation 

System  of  Toll  QuaUty,  page  1. 
Peterson,  L.  C,  Equivalent  Circuits  of  Linear  Active  Four-Terminal  Networks,  page  593. 
Pierce,  J.  R.,  Noise  in  Resistances  and  Electron  Streams,  page  158.     Transverse  Fields  in 

Traveling- Wave  Tubes,  page  732. 
Pulse  Code  Modulation :  Spectra  of  Quantized  Signals,  W.  R.  Bennett,  page  446. 
Pulse  Code  Modulation,  Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for,  R.  W.  Sears,  page  44. 
Pulse  Code  Modulation  System  of  Toll  QuaHty,  An  Experimental  Multichannel,  L.  A. 

Meacham  and  E.  Peterson,  page  1 . 

Q 

Quartz  Crystal  Clock,  The  Evolution  of  the,  Warren  A.  Marrison,  page  510. 


Radio:  Transient  Response  of  an  FM  Receiver,  M.  K.  Zinn,  page  714. 

Radio  and  Wire  Applications  of  Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy,  /.  R.  Davey  and  A.  L.  Matte, 

page  265. 
Random  Noise,  Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus,  S.  0.  Rice,  page  109. 
Receiver,  an  FM,  Transient  Response  of,  M.  K.  Zinn,  page  714. 
Repeater  Research,  Microwave,  H.  T.  Friis,  page  183. 

Repeaters,  Microwave,  The  Measurement  of  Delay  Distortion  in,  D.  H.  Ring,  page  247. 
Rice,  S.  O.,  Reflections  from  Circular  Bends  in  Rectangular  Wave  Guides — Matrix  Theory, 

page  305.     Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise,  page  109. 
Rideout,  V .  C,  A  Note  on  a  Parallel-Tuned  Transformer  Design,  page  96. 
Ring,  D.  IL,  The  Measurement  of  Delay  Distortion  in  Microwave  Repeaters,  page  247. 


INDEX 


S 


Schdkunojff,  S.  A.,  Methods  of  Electromagnetic  Field  Analysis,  page  487. 

Schdkunof,  S.  A.  atid  Marion  C.  Gray,  The  Approximate  Solution  of  Linear  Differential 

Equations,  page  350. 
Sears,  R.  W.,  Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for  Pulse  Code  Modulation,  page  44. 
Shannon,  C.  E.,  A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication,  pages  379-423;  623-656. 
Signals,  Quantized,  Spectra  of,  W.  R.  Bennett,  page  446. 

Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise,  Statistical  Properties  of  a,  5.  O.  Rice,  page  109. 
Spectra  of  Quantized  Signals,  W .  R.  Bennett,  page  446. 

Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise,  5".  O.  Rice,  page  109. 
Subscribers,  An  xA.spect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of,  and  Its  Effect  on  the  Trunk  Plant, 

Charles  Clos,  page  424. 


Telegraphy,  Frequency  Shift — Radio  and  Wire  Applications,  /.  R.  Davey  and  A.  L.  Matte, 

page  265. 
Theory,  A  Mathematical,  of  Communication,  C.  E.  Shannon,  pages  379-423;  623-656. 
Tillotson,  L.  C.  and  W.  D.  Lewis,  A  Non-reflecting  Branching  Filter  for  Microwaves,  page 

83. 
Toll  Transmission:  An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code  Modulation  System  of 

Toll  Quality,  L.  A.  Meacham  and  E.  Peterson,  page  1. 
Transformer  Design,  Parallel-Tuned,  A  Note  on  a,  V.  C.  Rideout,  page  96. 
Transient  Response  of  an  FM  Receiver,  M.  K.  Zinn,  page  714. 
Transients  in  Mechanical  Systems,  /.  T.  Midler,  page  657. 
Transmission:  A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication,  C.  E.  Shannon,  pages  379-423; 

623-656. 
Transverse  Fields  in  Traveling- Wave  Tubes,  /.  R.  Pierce,  page  732. 
Traveling- Wave  Tubes,  Transverse  Fields  in,  /.  R.  Pierce,  page  732. 
Trunk  Capacity :  An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect  on  the 

Trunk  Plant,  Charles  Clos,  page  424. 
Trunk  Plant,  An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect  on  the, 

Charles  Clos,  page  424. 

V 

Vibration:  Transients  in  Mechanical  Systems,  /.  T.  Midler,  page  657. 

W 

Wave  Guide,  Maximally-Flat  Filters  in,  W.  W.  Mumford,  page  684. 

Wave  Guide  Hybrid  Rings  for  Microwaves,  i.\nalysis  and  Performance  of,  H.  T.  Budenhom, 

page  473. 
Wave  Guides,  Rectangular,  Reflections  from  Circular  Bends  in — Matrix  Theory,  S.  O. 

Rice,  page  305. 
Wise,  W.  Howard,  Potential  Coefficients  for  Ground  Return  Circuits,  page  365. 

Z 

Zinn,  M.  K.,  Transient  Response  of  an  FM  Receiver,  page  714. 


VOLUME  xxvn  JANUARY,  1948  no.  i 


p^TTHE  BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

DEVOTED  TO  THE  SCIENTIFIC  AND  ENGINEERING  ASPECTS 
OF  ELECTRICAL  COMMUNICATION 


An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code  Modulation 
System  of  Toll  Quality 

L.  A,  Meacham  and  E.  Peterson      1 

Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for  Pulse  Code  Modulation 

R,  W.  Sears    44 

Metallic  Delay  Lenses Winston  E,  Kock    58 

A  Non -reflecting  Branching  Filter  for  Microwaves 

W,  D,  Lewis  and  L,  C.  Tillotson    83 

A  Note  on  a  Parallel-Tuned  Transformer  Design 

F.  C.  Rideout    96 

Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise 

S.  O.  Rice  109 

Noise  in  Resistances  and  Electron  Streams.  ..J.R,  Pierce  158 

Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors ...   175 

Contributors  to  this  Issue 181 


AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK 


50^  per  copy  $1.50  per  Year 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Published  quarterly  by  the 

American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

195  Broadway^  New  York,  N.  Y. 


EDITORS 

R.  W.  King  J.  O.  Perrine 

EDITORIAL  BOARD 

W.  H.  Harrison  O.  E.  Buckley 

O.  B.  Blackwell  M.  J.  KeUy 

H.  S.  Osborne  A.  B.  Clark 

J.  J.  Pilliod  F.  J.  Feely 


SUBSCRIPTIONS 

Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $1.50  per  year.    Single  copies  are  SO  cents  each, 
The  foreign  postage  is  35  cents  per  year  or  9  cents  per  copy. 


Copyright,  1948 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


PRINTED  IN   U.    S.  A. 


The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal 

Vol.  XXVII  January,  1948  No.  1 


An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code 
Modulation  System  of  Toll  Quality 

By  L.  A.  MEACHAM  and  E.  PETERSON 

Pulse  Code  Modulation  offers  attractive  possibilities  for  multiplex  telephony 
via  such  media  as  the  microwave  radio  relay.  The  various  problems  involved 
in  its  use  have  been  explored  in  terms  of  a  96-channel  system  designed  to  meet 
the  transmission  requirements  commonly  imposed  upon  commercial  toll  circuits. 
Twenty-four  of  the  96  channels  have  been  fully  equipped  in  an  experimental 
model  of  the  system.  Coding  and  decoding  devices  are  described,  along  with 
other  circuit  details.  The  coder  is  based  upon  a  new  electron  beam  tube,  and 
is  characterized  by  speed  and  simpUcity  as  well  as  accuracy  of  coding.  These 
quahties  are  matched  in  the  decoder,  which  employs  pulse  excitation  of  a  simple 
reactive  network. 

I.  Introduction 

IX  THE  development  of  systems  for  transmitting  telephonic  speech,  much 
effort  has  been  directed  toward  minimizing  the  effects  of  noise  picked  up  in 
the  transmission  medium.  The  system  described  in  this  paper  represents  one 
method  which  has  been  successful  in  eliminating  completely  such  effects  under 
appropriate  and  practical  conditions.  In  this  method,  known  as  Pulse  Code 
Modulations-'^  (PCM),  telephone  waves  are  represented  by  sequences  of 
on-off  constant-amplitude  pulses. 

Perfect  reception  of  such  pulses  demands  simply  recognition  of  whether  any 
pulse  exists  or  not.  Recognition  can  be  carried  out  effective!}'  in  the  presence 
of  noise  and  interference  amounting  to  a  substantial  fraction  of  the  pulse 
amplitude.  In  contrast,  telephonic  waves  cdixry  information  by  subtle  ampli- 
tude variations  in  the  course  of  time.  High  quality  telephone  reception 
accordingly  demands  a  much  lower  ratio  of  noise  and  interference — lower  by 
as  much  as  50  decibels. 

The  magnitude  of  this  figure  exhibits  one  good  reason  for  exploring  the 
possibilities  of  PCM.  Another  potent  reason,  w^hich  is  of  particular  impor- 
tance in  multi-link  transmission,  is  that,  with  pulses  involving  just  two  standard 
values,  regeneration  can  be  used  at  repeater  points  and  at  the  receiver  to  wipe 
out  transmission  impairments.     The  regeneration  process  consists  of  the  pro- 

^  A.  H.  Reeves,  U.  S.  Patent  2,272,070. 

'"Telephony  by  Pulse  Code  Modulation",  VV.  M.  Goodall,  Bell  System  Technical 
Journal,  July,  1947. 

3  "Pulse  Code  Modulation",  H.  S.  Black  and  J.  O.  Edson;  presented  June  11,  1947  at 
the  Montreal  Summer  Meeting  of  the  American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers,  and  to 
be  published  in  the  A.  I.  E.  E.  Transactions. 

1 


2  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

duction  of  a  properly  formed  standard  pulse,  free  of  noise,  to  correspond  with 
each  received  pulse,  even  though  the  latter  may  be  considerably  misformed. 
The  sole  proviso  here  is  that  before  regeneration  the  level  of  noise  and  distortion 
in  each  link  be  kept  below  the  comparatively  large  threshold  value  at  which  a 
mark  cannot  be  distinguished  from  a  space.  If  this  holds  good  throughout 
the  transmission  path  then  literally  the  received  pulses  can  be  made  as  good  as 
new.  In  contrast  it  is  impossible  fully  to  repair  or  to  regenerate  signals  not 
involving  standard  values  of  amplitude  and  of  time.  With  such  signals  dis- 
tortion and  noise  in  each  span  contribute  to  the  total  which  therefore  increases 
with  the  system  length. 

To  sum  up,  conversion  of  speech  to  a  code  of  pulses  and  spaces  permits  tele- 
phony to  assume  certain  new  and  desirable  properties;  ability  to  work  with 
small  signal-to- noise  ratios,  and  ability  to  regenerate  any  number  of  times  with 
no  degradation  of  quality.  These  advantages  do  not  accrue  without  certain 
penalties.  Conversion  of  speech  waves  to  pulse  form  and  back  to  speech 
involves  a  certain  degree  of  apparatus  complexity  at  the  terminals.  This 
complexity  is  not  decreased  by  the  need  to  handle  pulses  at  high  speeds,  of  the 
order  of  a  million  per  second.  Here  radar  and  television  circuit  techniques 
are  helpful.  Another  characteristic  is  that  a  greater  band  width  is  occupied 
in  the  transmission  medium.  This  arises  through  the  operation  of  two  factors, 
of  which  one  is  the  use  of  double  sideband  in  pulse  transmission  (as  against 
single  sideband  in  carrier  telephony),  and  the  second  involves  the  number  of 
pulses  used  in  the  code.  The  relatively  wide  band  required  can  best  be  accom- 
modated in  the  microwave  region  and  it  happens  that  the  properties  of  on-off 
pulse  transmission  can  be  used  there  to  particular  advantage. 

The  PCM  system  to  be  described  was  set  up  to  evaluate  experimentally 
the  problems  involved  in  providing  multichannel  facilities  of  toll  system 
quality.  It  was  designed  to  accommodate  96  channels.  For  experimental 
studies  of  such  things  as  crosstalk  and  methods  of  multiplexing  channels,  a 
fractiorfof  the  total  number  of  channels  is  sufficient  and  only  24  of  the  96  were 
built.  These  are  arranged  as  two  groups  of  12  channels  each.  The  channels 
of  a  group  are  assembled  on  a  time  division  basis.  Assembly  of  the  groups  is 
carried  out  on  a  frequency  division  basis,  each  group  amplitude-modulating 
its  own  carrier.  In  a  planned  alternative  arrangement  the  group  pulses  may 
be  narrowed  and  interlaced  to  put  all  96  channels  in  time  division  on  a  single 
carrier,  but  this  alternative  will  not  be  explored  here. 

The  assignment  of  12  channels  per  group  fits  in  well  with  the  present  arrange- 
ment of  carrier  telephone  circuits  used  in  the  Bell  System  plant,  such  as  Types 
J,  K,  and  L.^    Use  of  time  division  for  a  group  of  this  size  involves  pulses  with 

''  "A  Twelve-Channel  Carrier  Telephone  System  for  Open-Wire  Lines,"  B.  W.  Kendall 
and  H.  A.  Affel,  Bell  System  Technical  Journal,  January,  1939.  "Coaxial  Systems  in  the 
United  States,"  M.  E.  Strieby,  Signals,  January-February,  1947. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  3 

repetition  rates  up  to  672  kilocycles,  and  pulse  durations  as  short  as  a  quarter 
microsecond.  These  pulses,  obtainable  from  more  or  less  standard  types  of 
vacuum  tube  circuits,  can  be  distributed  from  point  to  point  in  the  equipment 
without  too  much  difficulty.  Amplitude  modulators  and  demodulators  at  two 
neighboring  carriers — 65  and  66.5  megacycles — then  serxt  to  bring  the  PCM 
signals  into  the  intermediate  frequency  range  for  transmission  to  and  from  the 
microwave  equipment. 

The  speech  quality  of  the  overall  system  in  respect  to  such  factors  as  band 
width,  volume  range,  noise,  distortion,  and  crosstalk  more  than  meets  the 
requirements  generally  imposed  upon  such  systems. 

Figure  1  is  a  front  view  photograph  of  the  experimental  apparatus  setup  with 
covers  remo\-ed  from  one  bay  to  show  typical  construction.  The  two  end  bays 
contain  intermediate  frequency  modulators  and  demodulators  required  for  the 
two  groups.  In  addition  voice  frequency  terminating  sets  and  jacks  are 
mounted  here,  together  with  testing  equipment.  The  center  bay  and  the  one 
to  the  right  of  it  are  identical;  each  includes  apparatus  for  handling  a  group  of 
twelve  message  channels.  Transmitting  equipment  is  mounted  in  the  upper 
half,  and  receiving  equipment  in  the  lower  half  of  each  bay.  The  remaining 
bay,  second  from  the  left,  holds  all  the  timing  equipment  needed  to  furnish 
control  pulses  for  operating  eight  of  the  message  bays,  a  total  of  96  channels. 
Included  are  circuits  for  synchronizing  the  receiver.  Individual  regulated 
power  supplies  are  mounted  near  their  loads  on  the  several  bays. 

Figure  2  is  a  rear  view  of  the  same  equipment.  Cables  in  the  four  horizontal 
ducts  shown  carry  control  pulses  from  the  timing  bay  to  the  12-channel  group 
bays.  These  ducts  are  large  enough  in  cross-section  to  handle  all  the  cables 
required  for  a  complete  96-channel  terminal. 

II.  Functional  Problems  Involved 

The  broad  problems  brought  together  in  building  this  system  may  be  con- 
sidered under  the  four  classes  follow  mg: 

1.  The  pulse  code  modulation  problem;  to  convert  signal  waves  to  pulse  pat- 
terns. 

2.  The  multiplex  problem;  to  aggregate  channels  into  groups  and  groups  into 
a  supergroup. 

3.  The  transmission  problem;  to  fit  the  system  into  the  minimum  required 
band  width,  and  to  remove  the  effects  of  transmission  impairments. 

4.  The  pulse  code  demodulation  problem;  to  convert  pulse  patterns  back 
to  the  original  signal  waves. 

These  are  to  be  discussed  from  a  functional  standpoint  to  provide  background 
for  discussion  of  the  specific  equipment. 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Fig.  1.  Front  view  of  experimental  PCM  terminal  equipment,  with  covers  removed 
from  a  12-channel  group  bay. 

Pulse  Code  Modulaiicn 

Sampling.  A  basic  premise  of  pulse  modulation  systems  is  that  the  infor- 
mation content  of  a  v^ave  can  be  conveyed  by  samples  taken  at  sufficiently 
frequent,  equally  spaced  time  intervals.  The  interval  should  be  no  greater 
than  half  the  period  of  the  highest  frequency  speech  component  to  be  repro- 
duced or,  otherwise  expressed,  the  sampling  rate  should  be  not  less  than  twice 
the  frequency  of  the  highest  speech  component  present.    This  provision  insures 


1 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


Fig.  2.  Rear  view.     Cables  in  the  horizontal  ducts  carry  timing  pulses  leftward  from 
the  synchronizing  bay. 

that  sidebands  produced  by  sampling  do  not  overlap  to  introduce  distortion, 
as  illustrated  in  Fig.  3.  For  a  speech  band  extending  up  to  3403  cycles,  a 
reasonable  sampling  rate  is  eight  kilocycles. 

Samples  may  be  intermittently-transmitted  portions  of  the  signal  wave,  of 
appreciable  duration,  or  they  may  be  essentially  instantaneous  amplitudes. 


6  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

To  afford  time  for  coding,  the  instantaneous  samples  may  be  maintained  at 
constant  value  for  an  appropriate  interval — a  process  here  referred  to  as 
"holding." 

Quantization.  The  fundamental  operation  of  PCM  is  the  conversion  of  a 
signal  sample  into  a  code  combination  of  on-off  pulses.  In  any  practical 
system  a  continuous  range  of  signal  values  cannot  be  reproduced  since  only  a 
finite  number  of  combinations  can  be  made  available.  Each  combination 
stands  for  a  specific  value,  of  course,  so  that  we  wind  up  by  representing  a  con- 
tinuous range  of  amplitudes  by  a  finite  number  of  discrete  steps.  This  process 
is  spoken  of  as  quantization,  a  quantum  being  the  difference  between  two 
adjacent  discrete  values.  Graphically  this  means  that  a  straight  line  repre- 
senting the  relation  between  input  and  output  samples  in  a  linear  continuous 

SIDEBANDS  ON  SIDEBANDS  ON 

SAMPLING  SAMPLING 

FUNDAMENTAL  2ND    HARMONIC 


AUDIO 
BAND 


FREQUENCY 


SAMPLING  2ND    HARMONIC 

FREQUENCY  OF  SAMPLING 

FREQUENCY 

Fig.  3.  Spectrum  of  a  sampled  audio  band,  illustrating  separation  of  components  when 
the  sampling  frequency  is  at  least  twice  the  top  audio  frequency. 

system  is  here  replaced  by  a  flight  of  steps  as  in  Fig.  4a.  The  midpoints  of  the 
treads  fall  on  the  straight  line,  and  the  height  of  the  step  is  the  quantum. 

Manifestly  the  greatest  error  inherent  in  quantization  amounts  to  half  a  step. 
Hence  the  quality  of  reproduction  may  be  measured  by  the  size  of  that  inter- 
val, which  depends  upon  the  total  number  of  steps  in  the  amplitude  range 
covered.  With  n  pulses  assigned  to  represent  an  amplitude  range,  the  maxi- 
mum number  of  discrete  steps  is  2",  and  the  size  of  each  step  is  proportional  to 
2~"  times  the  amplitude  range. 

This  error  shows  up  as  a  noiselike  form  of  distortion,  affecting  background 
noise  in  the  absence  of  speech,  and  accompanying  speech  as  well.  The  dis- 
tortion actually  consists  of  a  multiplicity  of  harmonics  and  high  order  modu- 
lation products  between  signal  components  and  the  sampling  frequency  scat- 
tered fairly  evenly  over  the  audio  spectrum.  If  the  audio  signal  is  a  simple 
sine  wave,  these  many  products  may  be  identified  individually;  but  for  speech 
or  other  complex  signals  they  merge  into  an  essentially  flat  band  of  noise  that 
sounds  much  like  thermal  noise.  Since  the  level  of  this  distortion  is  fixed  by 
the  quantum  size,  an  adequate  number  of  steps  must  be  provided  for  the  lowest 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  7 

amplitude  sounds  it  is  necessary  to  transmit.  Considering  that  consonant 
levels  may  be  of  the  order  of  30  decibels  below  vowels,  and  that  weak  talkers 
may  be  of  the  order  of  30  decibels  down  from  loud  talkers,  it  is  clear  that  ampli- 
tudes as  far  below  maximum  as  60  decibels  require  at  least  a  few  steps. 

Ordinarily  this  would  involve  a  large  number  of  pulses  for  transmission, 
with  a  consequent  increased   complexity  of  terminal  apparatus,  and  an  in- 


OUTPUT 


(a) 


OUTPUT 


Fig.  4.  Relation  between  input  and  quantized  output,  with  quantization  uniform  in 
(a)  and  tapered  in  (b). 


creased  frequency  band  per  channel.  A  more  practical  solution  is  to  employ 
tapered  steps  rather  than  uniform  ones.  In  this  way  a  given  number  of  steps 
can  be  assigned  in  greater  proportion  to  the  low  amplitudes  than  to  the  highs, 
as  shown  in  Fig.  4b.  There  results  a  degree  of  step  subdivision  sufficient  to 
care  adequately  for  the  low-ampHtude  sounds  including  background  noise. 
A  small  penalty  is  paid  at  the  upper  end  of  the  amplitude  scale  because  of  the 
proportionately  smaller  number  of  steps  available  there,  bringing  in  higher 


8  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

quantizing  noise  in  this  range.  How  large  the  effect  may  be  is  determined  by 
the  degree  of  taper.  To  apportion  the  noise  at  different  levels,  the  distribution 
of  steps  over  the  amplitude  range  can  be  varied. 

Preliminary  studies  of  quantization,  involving  listening  tests  and  noise 
measurements  for  various  numbers  of  digits  and  various  kinds  of  taper,  led  to 
the  choice  of  a  seven-digit  code  (128  steps)  for  the  present  system.  The  taper 
employed  reduces  the  smallest  steps  26  decibels  below  the  average  size  and 
increases  the  largest  ones  about  6  decibels. 

Coding.  The  coder  is  required  to  set  up  a  pulse  code  combination  for  each 
quantized  signal  value.  A  great  many  codes  are  conceivable,  but  in  practice 
a  simple  one  in  which  the  pulses  correspond  to  digits  of  the  binary  number 
system  allows  greatest  simplicity  at  the  receiver. 

While  coders  may  take  a  wide  variety  of  forms,  they  can  be  arranged  in 
three  categories  according  to  the  way  in  which  they  evaluate  speech  amplitudes. 
In  the  first  category  an  amplitude  is  measured  by  counting  out,  with  a  binary 
counter  for  example,  the  number  of  units  contained  in  it  one  by  one  until  the 
residue  amounts  to  less  than  a  unit.  In  the  second,  the  amplitude  is  measured 
by  comparison  with  one  digit  value  after  another,  proceeding  from  the  most 
significant  digit  to  the  least,  and  subtracting  the  digit  value  in  question  each 
time  that  value  is  found  to  be  smaller  than  the  amplitude  (or  its  residue  from 
the  previous  subtraction).  In  the  third,  amplitude  is  measured  in  toto  by 
comparison  with  a  set  of  scaled  values.  Modulators  disclosed  by  Reeves^ 
and  by  Black  and  Edson^  are  of  the  first  category.  That  described  by  GoodalP 
belongs  to  the  second,  and  the  one  described  in  the  present  paper  is  in  the  third 
category.  Generally  speaking  the  number  of  operations  and  the  time  required 
for  coding  decrease  in  going  from  the  first  to  the  third.  Rapid  coding  is  obvi- 
ously desirable  since  it  allows  more  channels  to  be  handled  in  time  division  by 
common  equipment. 

Multiplex 

Channels  may  be  multiplexed  by  arranging  them  in  time  sequence,  or  by 
arranging  them  along  the  frequency  scale.  These  methods  are  known  as  time 
division  and  as  frequency  division,  respectively.  The  first  is  accomplished 
by  gating,  or  switching,  at  precisely  fixed  times.  One  way  of  doing  this  im- 
presses a  more  or  less  rectangular  pulse  on  one  of  the  grids  of  a  gate  tube,  so 
that  a  signal  wave  may  be  transmitted  during  the  gating  pulse.  The  second 
method  here  refers  to  the  use  of  amplitude  modulators,  each  supplied  with  an 
appropriate  carrier,  which  translate  the  signals  to  their  assigned  positions  on 
the  frequency  scale.  To  avoid  crosstalk  in  a  time-division  system,  operations 
in  group  equipment  common  to  a  number  of  channels  must  proceed  without 
memory  of  the  amplitudes  of  preceding  channels,  requiring  build  up  and  decay 
times  to  be  held  within  limits.    This  implies  a  sufficiently  wide  pass  band 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  0 

together  with  phase  linearity.  For  the  same  purpose  in  a  frequency-division 
system,  filters  are  used  to  select  and  to  combine  channels.  To  avoid  crosstalk 
the  filters  must  be  sufficiently  selective,  and  amplitude  non-linearity  must  be 
held  within  limits. 

In  the  present  system,  the  pulse  code  is  delivered  by  the  coder  as  on-off 
pulses  in  time  sequence.  It  is  therefore  natural  to  organize  the  pulses  of  the 
different  channels  so  that  they  appear  in  sequence,  thus  forming  a  time-division 
multiplex.  Most  types  of  coder  require  an  appreciable  length  of  time,  after 
delivering  the  pulses  of  one  channel,  to  prepare  for  coding  the  next.  This 
preparation  time  may  be  afforded  conveniently,  without  introducing  gaps  in 
the  pulse  train  between  assignments  of  consecutive  channels,  by  providing  two 
coders,  which  take  turns  at  the  channels  in  each  time-division  group. 

As  the  number  of  channels  increases,  evidently  the  time  interval  which  can 
be  assigned  to  each  channel  must  be  reduced  since  all  of  them  must  be  fitted 
into  one  period  of  an  8-kilocycle  wave.  Similarly  the  allowable  duration  of  a 
code  or  digit  pulse  becomes  shorter  as  the  number  of  time -division  channels 
in  a  group  is  increased.  Then  too,  pulses  tend  to  become  more  difficult  to 
generate  and  transmit  as  their  duration  decreases.  For  these  reasons  it  is 
desirable,  and  eventually  it  becomes  necessary,  to  restrict  the  number  of  chan- 
nels included  within  a  time-division  group.  Frequency  division  may  then  be 
used  to  aggregate  several  time-division  groups. 

For  our  purposes  groups  of  12  channels  are  multiplexed  by  time  division. 
With  seven  digits  per  channel,  each  group  has  a  capacity  of  672,000  pulses  per 
second.  To  combine  eight  of  the  groups  for  a  96-channel  system  we  again  have 
a  choice  between  frequency  division  and  time  division.  The  equipment  of 
Fig.  1  is  laid  out  to  accommodate  either  procedure.  In  the  first  case  each 
group  is  assigned  a  carrier  for  amplitude  modulation,  as  used  in  actual  tests 
to  be  described.  For  the  second  case  the  pulse  durations  would  be  cut  down 
by  a  factor  of  eight,  and  the  pulses  from  the  different  groups  interlaced.  Here 
the  supergroup  would  have  a  capacity  of  5,376,OCO  pulses  per  second. 

In  carrying  out  coding  operations,  and  in  multiplexing  on  a  time-division 
basis,  various  control  pulses  are  required  which  differ  in  repetition  frequency, 
in  time  of  occurrence,  and  in  duration.  These  may  be  generated  from  a  stable 
base  frequency  oscillator  through  the  use  of  harmonics  or,  alternatively,  of 
sub-harmonics.  In  a  time-division  system  which  requires  a  variety  of  flat- 
topped  waves  for  switching  operations,  the  use  of  sub-harmonics  fits  naturally. 
Frequency  step-down  circuits  of  the  multivibrator  type  produce  waves  either 
approximating  the  desired  forms  directly,  or  requiring  only  simple  circuits  for 
reshaping.  In  contrast  harmonic  generation  requires  filters  for  component 
wave  selection,  more  and  more  elaborate  in  structure  as  the  order  of  the  wanted 
harmonic  goes  up.  Then,  after  selection,  the  harmonic  has  to  be  amplified 
^nd  limited  or  otherwise  shaped  for  switching  purposes.     Generally  speaking 


10  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

we  need  less  apparatus  and  less  space  if  we  use  multivibrator  step-downs. 
Another  advantage  is  that  noise  in  the  base  frequency  supply  produces  propor- 
tionately less  phase  jitter  with  sub-harmonics.  While  multivibrators  do  not 
have  high  inherent  stability,  they  are  capable  of  great  precision  when  suitably 
controlled.  For  these  reasons  frequency  step-downs  are  used  to  generate  ail 
the  timing  waves  of  the  system. 

Timing  and  gating  operations  require  accurate  time  alignment  of  pulses, 
which  may  be  accompHshed  by  suitably  delaying  one  set  with  respect  to  the 
other.  For  this  purpose  use  is  made  of  delay  networks  or  cables,  or  delay 
multivibrators.  Pulse  durations  may  be  varied  through  the  use  of  interference 
effects  between  given  pulses  and  their  delayed  replicas.  Additional  timing 
and  gating  wave  forms  are  required  for  regeneration  and  for  assembly  in  time- 
division  multiplex.  All  such  control  pulses  are  economically  generated  at  a 
single  common  point  rather  than  by  a  number  of  local  generators,  and  can  then 
be  supplied  to  the  message  equipment  by  common  power  amplifiers  via  shielded 
cable. 

Transmission 

In  this  section  we  are  to  consider  the  general  factors  entering  into  satisfactory 
reception  of  on-off  pulses  including  such  limitations  as  those  on  band  width 
and  noise.  These  are  to  be  viewed  while  keeping  in  mind  the  procedures 
available  for  pulse  regeneration. 

If  we  start  with  a  rectangular  pulse  like  one  of  those  generated  at  the  trans- 
mitter, the  corresponding  frequency  spectrum  exhibits  lobes  extending  indefi- 
nitely on  the  frequency  scale,  with  progressively  decreasing  amplitudes  as 
indicated  in  Fig.  5a.  When  such  a  pulse  is  passed  through  a  linear  phase 
filter^  which  discriminates  against  frequencies  beyond  the  first  lobe,  the  re- 
sulting pulse  is  practically  of  the  sinusoidal  form  shown  in  Fig.  5b.  Reducing 
the  high-frequency  response  to  the  extent  prescribed  rounds  the  corners  of  the 
transmitted  pulse,  its  duration  at  half  value  remaining  equal  to  that  of  the 
original  input  pulse.  In  practice,  transmission  characteristics  depart  from 
phase  linearity  and  low  frequency  cutoffs  exist.  Both  effects  introduce  irreg- 
ularities into  the  pulse  response.  While  actual  pulses  therefore  differ  slightly 
in  detail  from  the  idealized  picture  given  above,  that  picture  will  be  retained 
for  simplicity  in  discussion. 

The  band  width  needed  for  good  pulse  transmission  can  be  minimized  by 
making  pulses  as  wide  as  possible.  But  since  a  specified  number  of  pulses  have 
to  be  put  into  a  given  time  interval  (84  pulses  in  -^^-^  sec.)  we  must  limit  our 
broadening  at  a  value  where  the  presence  or  absence  of  a  pulse  may  be  clearly 

'  A  suitable  filter  is  one  with  a  Gaussian  characteristic,  the  loss  in  decibels  varying  as 
the  square  of  frequency  and  having  a  value  of  1  neper  (8.68  decibels)  at  a  frequency  equal 
to  1/T. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


11 


determined  in  the  presence  of  noise  and  interference.  This  spaces  the  sinus- 
oidal pulses  so  that  they  overlap  at  their  half-value  points  as  illustrated  in 
Fig.  5c.  There  it  will  be  observed  that  no  matter  how  many  pulses  occur  in 
succession,  the  maximum  amplitude  of  the  pulse  train  is  no  different  from  that 
of  a  single  pulse.  The  spectra  of  all  such  pulse  trains  have  a  common  envelope, 
shown  dashed  in  Fig.  5c. 


2. OFT 


1.5FT 


Fig.  5.  Pulse  forms  and  their  associated  amplitude  spectra  for:  a,  rectangular  pulse; 
b,  single  lobe  of  a  sinusoidally  varying  pulse;  c,  succession  of  pulses,  each  like  that  in  (b). 


Further,  the  band  needed  to  transmit  any  sequence  of  such  pulses  is  the 
same  as  that  needed  for  a  single  pulse.  This  can  readily  be  shown  by  using 
the  familiar  relation  between  transient  build-up  time  and  band  width.  More- 
over, this  conclusion  is  consistent  with  statistical  analysis  of  all  possible  pulse 
combinations,  which  yields  a  spectrum  of  the  form  of  Fig.  5b. 

The  relation  between  pulse  duration  and  band  width  here  described  gives 
close  to  the  optimum  ratio  of  signal  to  noise  and  interference  for  the  system 
considered.  Narrowing  the  band  would  increase  build-up  and  decay  times, 
leading  to  reduced  pulse  amplitude  and  to  increased  pulse  overlap.    Thus, 


12  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

although  the  narrower  band  would  admit  less  extraneous  noise,  margins  over 
noise  and  interference  would  be  reduced.  Widening  the  band,  on  the  other 
hand,  would  allow  pulses  to  build  up  and  decay  faster,  but  would  not  increase 
the  pulse  height.  Thus  the  same  signal  would  result,  but  the  widened  band 
would  pass  increased  noise,  and  again  the  margins  would  be  reduced.  The 
optimum  band  width  represents  the  most  useful  compromise  in  efforts  to  re- 
duce noise  and  interference  and  to  increase  signal. 

The  filter  characteristic  we  have  been  discussing  is  that  of  the  entire  link 
taking  in  all  selectivity  inserted  between  the  practically  rectangular  pulses 
originally  generated  at  the  transmitter  and  the  pulses  delivered  to  the  PCM 
receiver.  Filters  at  both  transmitting  and  receiving  terminals  of  the  link  are 
included,  the  greater  part  of  the  overall  selectivity  being  located  at  the  receiver. 
With  about  1.5  microsecond  available  per  pulse  at  half  amplitude,  filters  spaced 
1.5  megacycle  apart  accommodate  the  double  sideband  and  keep  the  inter- 
ference between  groups  within  tolerable  limits. 

To  establish  the  presence  of  pulses  we  can  set  up  an  amplitude  threshold  equal 
to  half  the  normal  pulse  amplitude,  and  test  to  see  if  that  threshold  is  exceeded 
at  a  time  near  the  center  of  the  assigned  pulse  position.  Selecting  the  threshold 
at  half  amplitude  provides  equal  margin  against  the  possibility  of  noise  and 
interference  bringing  the  full  pulse  amplitude,  or  mark,  below  threshold  and 
bringing  the  nominal  space  above  threshold.  Testing  at  the  pulse  position 
midpoint  maximizes  this  margin. 

The  amplitude  threshold  is  set  up  by  slicing  a  thin  section  horizontally  out 
of  the  pulse  at  its  half-amplitude  level  by  means  of  an  amplitude  discriminator. 
Evidently,  this  procedure  restores  the  fiat  top  of  the  pulse.  To  complete  re- 
generation by  restoring  the  pulse  epoch  to  a  standard  value  the  sliced  pulses 
are  gated  at  the  midpoints  of  their  proper  intervals  with  narrow  pulses  supplied 
by  the  timing  equipment.  By  these  two  pulse  regenerating  processes — slicing 
and  gating — noise  and  interference  are  made  impotent  to  produce  errors  until 
they  attain  a  substantial  fraction  of  the  pulse  amplitude.  With  the  effects 
of  noise  and  distortion  thus  eliminated,  the  only  noise  inherent  in  the  system 
is  that  of  quantization.  In  long  systems  having  many  repeater  points,  re- 
generation has  to  be  practiced  at  spans  short  enough  to  permit  cleaning  out 
noise  and  distortion  before  it  piles  up  above  threshold.  Thus  in  this  system 
transmission  impairments  have  to  be  considered  only  for  the  span  between 
regeneration  points;  with  their  effects  limited  below  threshold  they  are  not 
carried  over  from  one  span  to  the  next. 

Where  PCM  groups  are  multiplexed  by  frequency  division,  amplitude  non- 
linearity  of  the  system  must  be  kept  within  limits.  Otherwise  intermodulation 
products  may  fall  within  transmission  bands,  adding  to  interference.  Over- 
lapping of  neighboring  filter  bands  also  must  be  kept  within  bounds  to  reduce 
direct  crosstalk  between  the  pulse  trains.    With  pulses  arranged  exclusively 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  13 

in  time-division  multiplex,  however,  amplitude  non-linearity  of  itself  is  not  a 
factor.  In  this  case  the  limitation  comes  on  the  departure  from  a  suitable 
attenuation  characteristic  and  from  constant  delay  with  respect  to  frequency. 
Distortion  from  these  sources  may  increase  the  pulse  duration  so  that  excessive 
overlap  of  adjacent  pulses  will  leave  less  margin  available  for  interference  and 
noise. 

Pulse  Code  Demodulation 

At  the  receiver,  the  regenerated  code  pulses  are  operated  upon  to  recreate 
as  closely  as  possible  the  original  signal  by  operations  complementary  to  those 
at  the  transmitter.  Unfortunately,  however,  no  process  at  the  receiver  can 
undo  the  effects  of  quantization  which  remain  as  noise,  so  that  the  quanta  must 
obviously  be  made  small  enough  from  the  beginning  to  permit  satisfactory 
speech  quality. 

In  each  time-division  group  alternately  working  decoders  may  be  used,  in 
the  same  way  as  the  two  coders  at  the  transmitter.  Routing  is  effected  by 
suitably  timed  gates.  Conversion  of  a  pulse  code  to  amplitude  may  be  ac- 
complished by  causing  each  pulse  of  a  code  combination  to  contribute  an  ampli- 
tude corresponding  to  the  binary  digit  it  represents,  and  then  summing  the 
contributions.  When  tapered  steps  are  employed,  due  consideration  must  be 
given  to  overall  linearity,  discussed  subsequently.  The  resulting  output  is  a 
pulse-amplitude-modulated  signal,  which  is  then  distributed  to  the  channels  of 
the  group  by  an  electronic  commutator.  Reconstruction  of  the  signal  from 
these  distributed  pulses  is  accomplished  by  simple  filtering,  which  serves  to 
remove  components  extraneous  to  speech  introduced  by  the  sampling  procedure 
and  tied  up  with  the  sampling  rate. 

Production  of  the  necessary  timing  pulses  at  the  receiving  end  proceeds  in 
much  the  same  manner  as  at  the  transmitter  except  for  one  thing.  That  is, 
instead  of  being  initiated  by  a  local  oscillator,  the  receiver  timing  must  be  linked 
to  the  input  pulses  so  that  they  may  be  properly  routed.  This  involves  the 
problem  of  synchronizing  or,  to  borrow  a  term  from  television,  framing.  Use 
of  this  term  is  based  upon  the  similarity  of  the  sequence  of  PCM  digits  within 
a  single  sampling  period  to  the  complete  ordered  array  of  television  picture 
elements.  Preferably  framing  should  be  done  with  a  minimum  of  time  interval 
and  of  band  width. 

One  method  of  synchronizing  pulse  systems  employs  a  marker  pulse  which 
serves  to  initiate  a  timing  sequence  for  each  frame  at  the  receiver.  Here  the 
marker  pulse  must  differ  sufficiently  from  the  other  pulses  to  permit  its  rapid 
and  certain  identification.  This  is  ordinarily  done  by  making  the  marker 
several  times  as  long  as  any  message  pulse.  In  PCM,  however,  where  digit 
pulses  are  run  together  in  many  code  combinations,  the  marker  would  have 
to  be  very  long  to  be  clearly  distinguishable,  thereby  cutting  into  channel  ca- 


14 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


it  it  J-+ 


NVHDZl 


NVHD  21 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


13 


V) 

o 

\-  X 

<n  (c 

u  o 

$  > 

o  5 

<0   uj 

-t  z 

NVHO  Zl 


16  BELL  SYSTEM  TECtiNlCAL  JOURNAL 

pacity.  This  inefficiency  can  be  avoided  by  deriving  the  pulsing  rate  from  the 
pulse  train  through  the  use  of  a  narrow  band  filter.  Framing  may  then  be 
effected  by  using  in  each  frame  just  one  digit  pulse,  which  is  given  a  distinctive 
repetition  rate.  With  this  method,  a  certain  amount  of  time  is  required  to 
establish  synchronism  when  the  system  is  started  up.  In  the  system  to  be 
described  the  framing  time  is  less  than  one-tenth  second — a  tolerable  value. 

III.  Experimental  System 

In  the  light  of  the  foregoing  discussion,  the  block  diagram  of  the  experimental 
system  shown  in  Fig.  6  is  believed  to  be  largely  self-explanatory.  It  will  be 
noted  that  for  microwave  transmission  the  modulated  intermediate-fre- 
quency signals  are  simply  translated  in  frequency  to  the  4000-megacycle 
band.  The  shaping  filters  and  group  selection  filters  shown  have  approxi- 
mately Gaussian  characteristics,  in  accord  with  transmission  considerations 
noted  earlier.  The  band  widths  shown  for  these  filters  apply  between  points 
one  neper  down  from  the  midband  loss.  Band  widths  given  for  the  ampli- 
fiers, on  the  other  hand,  refer  to  their  regions  of  essentially  flat  response. 

Overall  measurements  are  facilitated  and  the  amount  of  experimental 
apparatus  minimized  by  looping  the  radio  path  through  a  non-regenerative 
microwave  repeater  21  miles  away  in  New  York.  Both  ends  of  the  24 
channels  are  thus  made  available  at  Murray  HiU,  New  Jersey,  the  location 
of  the  apparatus  pictured  in  Fig.  1.  With  this  arrangement,  and  using 
conventional  4-wire  voice  frequency  terminating  sets,  24  people  are  able  to 
engage  in  12  simultaneous  conversations  through  the  system. 

PCM  Transmitter.  The  transmitting  equipment  for  an  individual  12- 
channel  group  is  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  7.  Each  audio  input^  is  passed 
through  a  3400-cycle  low-pass  filter  and  through  a  limiter  which  chops  off 
the  positive  and  negative  peaks  of  any  signal  exceeding  a  prescribed  maxi- 
mum amplitude.  This  limit  is  chosen  to  penalize  the  loudest  talkers  to  the 
degree  customary  in  toll  system  practice.  The  inputs  then  enter  a  "col- 
lector" circuit,  which  assembles  samples  of  the  channels  in  time  division 
multiplex  on  a  common  lead.  Although  it  functions  electronically  under 
control  of  pulses  from  the  timing  bay,  the  circuit  so  resembles  a  mechanical 
commutator  that  this  analogy  has  been  used  in  the  schematic.  The  period 
of  rotation  of  the  "contact  arm"  is  125  microseconds  (8  kilocycles),  and  a 
conducting  path  is  formed  to  the  common  multiplex  lead  from  each  channel 
circuit  in  turn  for  yV  of  this  period,  or  10^  microseconds.     It  should  be 

•In  telephone  terminology,  these  4. wire  inputs  are  normally  at  the  —13  decibel  level 
point;  i.e.,  13  decibels  below  the  transmitting  level  at  the  toll  test  board.  Strap  connec- 
tions are  provided,  as  in  the  Western  Electric  A-2  channel  bank,  for  adapting  the  system 
to  inputs  3  decibels  smaller.  Similarly  the  final  4-wire  outputs  are  delivered  at  the  -f-4 
(or  -H7)  decibel  point.  The  normal  gain  through  a  link  is  thus  17  decibels  but  can  be 
set  as  much  as  6  decibels  grtater. 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


17 


S"13NNVHD 


U  MULTICHANNEL  MODULA TION  SYSTEM 

noted  that  the  channel  samples  thus  collected  are  not  ''held"  at  this  stage; 
i.e.,  each  sample  does  not  remain  constant  in  potential  during  its  assigned 
interval,  but  rather  changes  to  follow  the  wave  form  of  the  audio  signal  in 
the  corresponding  channel. 

The  multiplex  signal  is  supplied  to  an  instantaneous  compressor,  which 
employs  silicon  rectifier  elements  to  give  an  input-output  characteristic  of 
the  general  form  indicated  within  its  block  (Fig.  7).  To  understand  the 
purpose  of  this  device,  we  must  recall  the  discussion  of  quantizing  noise 
given  earlier.  There  it  was  found  desirable  to  provide  a  tapered  distribution 
of  step  heights  in  the  staircase-like  quantizing  characteristic,  thus  devoting 
a  considerable  number  of  small  steps  to  the  treatment  of  background  noise 
and  low-level  signals.  Although  coders  have  been  devised  which  inherently 
deal  with  signal  amplitudes  in  this  graded  manner,  it  has  been  found  more 
practicable  in  the  present  system  to  apply  amplitude  compression  to  the 
samples  before  coding,  and  to  divide  this  compressed  amplitude  range  into 
uniform  steps  in  the  coder.  The  result  is  a  tapered  step  distribution  with 
respect  to  the  original  uncompressed  scale  of  amphtudes,  details  of  the  dis- 
tribution being  determined  by  the  shape  of  the  compression  characteristic. 

It  may  be  well  to  note  here  that  this  method  can  be  used  in  reverse  at  the 
receiver,  with  the  decoding  performed  on  an  equal-step  basis,  and  the  re- 
sultant samples  passed  through  a  complementary  instantaneous  expandor. 
If  the  compression  and  expansion  are  truly  complementary,  the  overall 
characteristic  relating  amplitudes  of  input  and  output  samples  will  be  linear 
except  for  the  tapered  array  of  quantizing  steps  (Fig.  4b). 

Incidentally,  no  added  band  width  in  the  transmission  path  of  this  system 
is  required  to  accommodate  the  instantaneous  compandor  action. 

After  compression,  the  multiplex  signal  is  delivered  at  low  impedance  to 
the  inputs  of  two  coders.  In  Fig.  7  the  switch  analogy  is  called  upon  again 
to  illustrate  the  routing  of  alternate  samples  to  the  ''odd"  and  "even"  coders, 
and  concurrently  the  storage  of  these  samples  on  "holding  capacitors"  to 
keep  them  unchanged  during  the  coding  operation.  Here  the  switches 
rotate  at  48,000  revolutions  per  second,  each  one  closing  six  times  in  a  com- 
plete 8-kilocycle  frame.  The  contact  segment  is  drawn  as  a  short  arc  to 
indicate  a  brief  closure,  actually  lasting  about  5  microseconds  and  occurring 
while  the  switch  of  the  collector  is  in  contact  with  a  single  segment.  When 
the  circuit  is  thus  completed  from  a  particular  channel  to  the  holding  ca- 
pacitor, the  vohage  on  the  latter  very  rapidly  assumes  and  then  follows, 
for  the  remainder  of  the  5-microsecond  interval,  the  potential  of  the  com- 
pressed version  of  the  channel  signal.  When  the  circuit  opens,  the  latest 
state  of  charge,  which  is  essentially  an  "instantaneous"  sample,  is  left  on  the 
capacitor,  and  is  thus  held  for  about  16  microseconds — until  the  next  closure. 
These  sampling  operations  occur  alternately  in  the  two  coders. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


19 


By  a  process  to  be  considered  later,  each  coder  produces  a  7-digit  PCM 
code  representation  of  its  set  of  samples.  The  two  coders  deliver  their  code 
groups  alternately  on  a  common  output  lead  during  the  final  10  ^^  micro- 
seconds of  each  16-microsecond  holding  interval  mentioned  above.  In- 
dividual pulses  last  about  1.5  microsecond,  although  as  delivered  from  the 
coders  they  are  somewhat  irregular  in  timing  and  waveform.  It  will  be 
noted  that  the  interval  allotted  to  the  code  group  from  each  channel  is  just 


FRAMING    CONTROL 
PULSE  (+) 

CHANNEL    12  /  CHANNEL    1 

(CODER  2)  /  (CODER  1) 


CHANNEL  2 
(CODER  2) 


CHArJNEL   3 
(CODER  1) 


>N_/v\_A^_/\/vv\l 


C       - 


D        


(-) 


OUTPUT   OF   CODERS 
0.4|JS-H  h-    * 10  5/12  |JS- 


^^^i^^^U 


672  KC    TIMING   PULSES 


^^ 


LJ^ 


SLICED   AND  GATED  PCM    PULSES 
1.5|JS(APPROX.) 


OUTPUT  OF  PULSE   REGENERATOR 


I'-       • 


H 


MODULATED   I.R  OR   MICROWAVE  SIGNAL 

Fig.  8.  Waveforms  of  the  pulse  regenerator. 


YT^  of  the  125-microsecond  frame  period  and  that  a  continuous  train  of 
code  groups  is  thereby  produced. 

The  common  output  circuit  of  the  coders  goes  to  a  pulse  regenerator  which 
standardizes  the  pulses  in  height  by  slicing,  and  in  time  by  gating,  as  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  8.  The  peaks  of  the  coder  output  pulses  (line  A)  are  lined  up 
in  time  with  the  gate  control  pulses  (line  B)  supplied  from  the  timing  gear. 
The  latter  have  a  constant  repetition  frequency  of  672  kilocycles  and  a 
uniform  pulse  length  of  0.4  microsecond.  Accordingly,  the  sliced  and  gated 
PCM  pulses  (line  C)  are  also  0.4  microsecond  long,  and  require  lengthening 
to  fill  their  allotted  1.5-microsecond  intervals.     This  is  accomplished  by  a 


20  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

circuit  in  the  pulse  regenerator  which  first  doubles  the  length  of  each  pulse 
by  adding  thereto  its  own  delayed  reflection  obtained  from  a  short-circuited 
delay  cable,  and  then  shghtly  less  than  doubles  it  again  by  a  similar  process 
using  a  longer  cable.  A  final  slicing,  to  eliminate  amplitude  irregularities 
acquired  in  the  lengthening  process,  yields  square  pulses  as  shown  in  line  D, 
with  adjacent  pulses  merged  into  a  single  longer  pulse.  This  is  the  final 
output  signal  delivered  to  the  intermediate-frequency  modulator.  Passage 
of  the  modulator  output  through  a  shaping  filter  results  in  rounded  pulses 
(line  E)  suitable  for  transmission  over  the  radio  relay  path. 

In  this  regenerating  apparatus,  provision  is  also  made  for  introducing  a 
"framing  control  pulse,"  supplied  from  the  timing  bay  and  normally  applied 
only  to  Group  1,  although  any  other  group  may  be  used  if  desired.  This 
pulse  is  about  1.5  microsecond  long,  and  occurs  once  in  each  8-kilocycle 
frame,  but  has  opposite  polarity  in  successive  frames.  It  is  timed  to  syn- 
chronize with  the  first  digit  of  the  Channel  1  code  and  is  large  enough  in 
amplitude  to  override  the  pulse  or  space  put  out  by  the  coder  in  that  position. 
Hence  in  the  final  PCM  output  from  Group  1,  pulse  1  of  Channel  1  is  al- 
ternately present  and  absent  regardless  of  the  audio  signal.  This  arrange- 
ment, used  in  automatic  ''framing"  of  the  receiving  timing  gear  as  described 
in  the  following  section,  thus  borrows  the  least  significant  digit  from  one 
channel  of  the  system,  leaving  that  channel  usable,  but  with  6-digit  instead 
of  7-digit  quality.  A  4-kilocycle  tone  of  very  low  amplitude  which  it  intro- 
duces in  that  single  channel  is  made  inaudible  by  the  low-pass  filter  in  the 
final  audio  output. 

Synchronization.  The  connection  of  a  transmitting  channel  to  its  proper 
receiving  circuit  in  the  time-division  part  of  the  system  requires  the  two 
terminals  to  be  synchronized :  timing  operations  at  the  receiver  must  follow 
closely  those  at  the  transmitter.  In  a  broad  and  general  way  this  timing 
matter  amounts  to  getting  a  local  clock  to  keep  the  same  time  as  a  distant 
standard  clock.  Here  the  criterion  of  good  timekeeping  might  be  thought 
fussy  by  some  standards;  we  cannot  work  with  a  discrepancy  as  long  as  a 
microsecond  for  the  very  good  reason  that  incorrect  routing  of  pulses  would 
then  result,  associated  with  intolerably  large  decoding  errors.  Three  pro- 
visions are  made  to  take  care  of  this  situation.  First,  the  framing  is  auto- 
matically monitored  at  all  times.  Second,  if  the  system  is  out  of  frame — as 
it  may  be  after  transmission  has  been  temporarily  interrupted — the  monitor 
circuit  hunts  for  and  establishes  synchronism.  Third,  whenever  the  system 
is  not  properly  synchronized  and  framed,  all  message  circuits  are  cut  off  to 
avoid  resulting  noise  and  crosstalk. 

For  the  purpose  of  this  description  we  can  use  a  mechanical  analogy  once 
more  and  picture  all  the  transmitting  channels  of  a  time-division  group 
arranged  in  order  around  a  circle  (Fig.  9).    This  time,  however,  we  let  each 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


21 


small  division  of  the  circle  constitute  a  commutator  bar  which  is  activated  by 
the  information  of  a  particular  code  digit.  Thus  as  the  brush  is  stepped 
around  at  a  uniform  rate  it  puts  digit  information  on  the  line  in  proper  se- 
quence. In  each  complete  revolution  there  appears  a  set  of  on-off  pulses 
constituting  one  frame.  With  twelve  channels  in  the  group,  and  seven 
digits  to  each  channel,  one  revolution  of  the  brush  arm  covers  the  frame  of 
84  digit  positions.  The  revolution  period  is  125  microseconds.  Roughly 
one  and  a  half  microsecond  is  allotted  to  each  digit,  and  the  brush  steps 
672, ceo  times  a  second.     The  driving  force  for  stepping  is  supplied  by  a 


CONTROL 
LEAD 

FRAMING 

PULSE 
RECEIVER 

SWITCH 

; 

FUNDAMENTAL 
RECOVERY 

\^ 

^ 

I 

'-fy. 

f; 

-w 

\ 

HEAVY    LINES- MESSAGE   PATH 
DASHED  CIRCLES-MECHANICAL"  DRIVE 


Fig.  9.  Representation  of  the  method  used  for  framing,  in  relation  to  a  sirgle  12-channel 
time-division  group. 


stable  oscillator,  its  frequency  determined  by  a  quartz  crystal.  One  of  the 
digit  positions  is  taken  away  from  its  message  duties  and  assigned  for  framing 
purposes,  as  described  in  the  last  section. 

Our  clock  now  is  a  one-handed  affair  with  the  brush  arm  for  the  hand. 
Its  scale  has  the  customary  twelve  main  divisions,  but  each  main  division 
is  divided  into  seven  parts,  one  for  each  digit.  Hour  and  minute  markings 
refer  to  channel  and  digit,  respectively. 

At  the  receiving  end  we  imagine  a  similar  clock  structure  to  be  provided. 
Input  pulses  go  directly  to  the  clock  hand  which  is  stepped  around  to  dis- 
tribute pulses  to  the  twelve  message  channels,  plus  a  framing  channel  which 
takes  up  but  a  single  digit  space.  Here  the  clock  has  no  independent  driving 
source,  since  it  must  follow  the  transmitter.    Accordingly,  the  basic  672- 


22  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

kilocycle  frequency  is  recovered  from  the  input  pulse  train  by  means  which 
include  filtering  in  a  narrow-band  crystal  filter.  The  filter  band  is  narrow 
enough  to  select  the  base  frequency  with  negligible  modulation  and  noise. 
That  is,  sidebands  produced  by  pulse  keying  are  attenuated  to  negligible 
proportions,  as  is  the  background  noise.  It  is  this  output  which  serves  to 
step  the  brush  arm  around  the  frame  at  precisely  the  transmitter  frequency. 

With  the  transmitter  frequency  recovered,  both  hands  are  stepped  around 
their  dials  at  the  same  rate.  While  this  is  a  necessary  condition  for  running 
the  receiver,  it  is  not  a  sufficient  one  since  most  likely  the  system  will  not 
be  framed.  In  fact  the  odds  are  83  to  1  against  the  two  clocks  indicating 
the  same  time  if  connection  to  the  receiver  is  initiated  at  random  times.  If 
we  had  to  deal  with  ordinary  clocks,  both  in  view,  the  resetting  procedure 
could  be  accomplished  by  moving  one  clock-hand  to  agree  with  the  other 
at  one  fell  swoop.  But  in  the  PCM  case  resetting  has  to  be  done  more  dis- 
cretely since  only  one  dial  position  per  frame  is  viewed  in  the  framing  re- 
ceiver. Accordingly,  an  orderly  procedure  is  set  up  for  locating  the  framing 
pulse  which  consists  in  examining  digit  positions  one  by  one  until  the  framing 
pulse  is  reached.  After  any  one  position  is  viewed  long  enough  to  establish 
the  absence  of  the  framing  pulse,  the  receiving  clock  is  set  back  one  digit 
position  and  the  next  position  viewed. 

This  resetting  or  framing  procedure  is  governed  by  the  framing  receiver 
through  its  control  of  a  switch  which  connects  the  recovered  base  frequency 
to  the  driving  mechanism  of  the  clock.  If  the  channels  are  correctly  routed, 
so  that  it  is  the  framing  pulse  which  is  being  viewed  by  the  framing  receiver, 
the  switch  is  left  closed,  and  the  672-kilocycle  wave  steps  the  clockhand 
around  the  dial  without  interruption.  But  if  the  system  is  not  correctly 
framed  the  framing  receiver  does  not  get  its  distinctive  pulses.  In  this 
case  the  switch  is  opened  every  little  while  for  the  duration  of  a  single  pulse 
interval,  stopping  the  local  receiver  clock  during  that  interval  while  the 
transmitter  clock  advances  one  digit  position.  In  effect  the  receiving  clock- 
hand  is  set  back  precisely  one  digit  interval  with  respect  to  the  standard. 
Thus  the  next  digit  pulse  is  brought  into  the  framing  receiver.  If  again  the 
monitored  input  turns  out  to  be  other  than  the  framing  pulse,  the  stopping 
process  is  brought  into  play  once  more;  this  process  is  repeated  until  the 
system  is  framed. 

As  pointed  out  in  the  last  section,  the  framing  pulse  is  alternately  absent 
and  present  in  successive  frames,  corresponding  to  a  4-kilocycle  rate.  This 
is  readily  distinguishable  from  any  of  the  message  pulses,  which  in  practice 
are  found  to  have  little  energy  content  at  this  frequency.  The  framing 
receiver  accordingly  includes  a  resonant  circuit  tuned  to  four  kilocycles. 
In  the  hunting  process,  eight  frame  periods  are  allowed  between  successive 
interruptions  of  the  clock  drive,  to  give  the  resonant  circuit  sufficient  time 


MULTICHA  NNEL  MODULA  TION  SYSTEM  23 

to  build  up  above  a  threshold  when  the  system  is  first  framed.  With  this 
time  interval  thus  fixed,  each  clock  position  is  maintained  for  about  one 
millisecond.  Hence  the  time  required  to  frame  the  receiver  varies  between 
one  and  eighty-three  milliseconds,  depending  upon  the  epoch  at  which  the 
system  connection  is  established. 

FCM  Receiver.  The  received  PCM  signals  of  a  12-channel  group  are 
filtered  from  the  frequency  multiplex  while  in  the  intermediate-frequency 
state  and  then  detected  to  the  original  signal  band,  as  indicated  in  Fig.  6. 
They  consist  of  rounded  pulses,  nominally  sinusoidal  in  shape,  but  more  or 
less  distorted  by  transmission  defects  and  accompanied  by  noise  and  inter- 
ference. 

These  signals  are  supplied  as  input  to  the  PCM  receiver  shown  in  Fig.  10. 
They  are  first  sliced  in  amplitude,  the  slice  being  taken  at  approximately 
half  the  average  or  noise-free  pulse  height.  Code  groups  of  seven  pulses 
are  then  routed  alternately  to  two  decoders,  which  handle  even  and  odd 
channels  respectively.  The  routing  function  is  represented  in  the  drawing 
by  a  two-segment  commutator  (A)  rotating  at  48,000  revolutions  per  second. 
Before  entering  the  actual  decoding  circuit,  the  pulses  are  again  sliced  to 
secure  very  great  uniformity,  and  are  gated  with  0.4-microsecond,  672- 
kilocycle  pulses  from  the  receiver  timing  equipment.  Immediately  after 
the  arrival  of  the  seventh  digit  of  each  code  group  of  these  standardized 
pulses,  the  decoding  circuit  produces  a  voltage  on  its  low-impedance  output 
lead  proportional  to  the  quantized  amplitude  represented  by  the  code.  As 
in  the  case  of  coding,  details  of  the  decoding  process  will  be  reserved  for  a 
later  section  of  this  paper. 

The  decoded  amplitudes  are  available  only  momentarily;  therefore  it  is 
desirable  to  sample  each  one  at  the  proper  time  and  store  the  result  as  a 
charge  on  a  holding  capacitor.  This  sampling  process  is  represented  by 
switch  B  in  one  decoder  and  B'  in  the  other.  Here  the  switch  closures  last 
only  two  microseconds,  and  values  are  held  for  about  19  microseconds. 

The  next  step  is  to  assemble  the  six  samples  from  odd  channels  held 
successively  by  one  capacitor  and  the  six  from  even  channels  held  by  the 
other  into  a  single  time-division  multiplex.  Switch  C  performs  this  opera- 
tion, rotating  at  48,000  revolutions  per  second,  and  making  contact  alter- 
nately with  the  output  circuits  of  the  odd  and  even  decoders. 

This  12-channel  multiplex  signal  is  passed  through  an  instantaneous 
expandor,  the  purpose  of  which  has  been  noted  in  an  earlier  section.  To 
simpHfy  the  problem  of  making  the  input-output  characteristic  of  this  cir- 
cuit accurately  complementary  to  that  of  the  compressor,  the  two  devices  are 
designed  to  use  identical  silicon  units.  In  the  expandor,  however,  the  non- 
linear device  is  employed  in  the  feedback  path  of  a  broadband  amplifier 
rather  than  in  the  direct  transmission  path,  thus  giving  the  inverse  character- 


24 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECBNtCAL  JOURNAL 


O  O  u. 


n  ^1  (ul  ml  Tfl  uij  <o|  M 


L. 


5"I3NNVHD 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  25 

istic.  To  allow  any  compressor  to  be  used  with  any  expandor,  all  the  silicon 
elements  are  matched  to  a  chosen  standard  unit,  using  selection  and 
resistance  ''padding"  methods.  By  such  means,  and  by  use  of  sufficient 
loop  gain  in  the  feedback  amplifier,  very  satisfactory  overall  linearity  of  the 
system  has  been  attained. 

At  the  output  of  the  expandor  the  waveform  of  the  multiplex  signal  is 
essentially  the  same  as  that  at  the  input  of  the  compressor  in  the  trans- 
mitting terminal.  The  samples  are  distributed  to  their  respective  channel 
destinations  by  a  distributor  Z>,  resembling  the  collector  described  earlier. 
The  rotation  rate  is  8CC0  revolutions  per  second,  but  the  duration  of  contact 
on  any  one  segment  is  only  five  microseconds  instead  of  the  possible  full 
twelfth  of  the  125-microsecond  frame  period.  This  effective  narrowing  of 
the  contact  segments  is  done  to  allow  the  closure  to  occur  well  within  the 
interval  in  which  the  circuit  is  completed  by  switch  C  from  the  output  of  a 
particular  decoder.  Each  of  the  12  segments  of  the  distributor  is  provided 
with  a  holding  capacitor,  which  stores  its  allotted  samples  for  the  full  125- 
microsecond  frame  period.  The  potential  on  any  one  of  these  capacitors 
thus  changes  at  125-microsecond  intervals  from  one  quantized  sample  ampli- 
tude to  the  next  derived  from  the  same  original  speech  wave. 

This  potential  is  of  sufficient  magnitude  to  require  use  of  only  a  simple 
single-stage  triode  amplifier  for  the  output  of  each  channel.  Lengthening 
the  samples  by  holding,  as  described,  helps  to  make  this  possible  by  causing 
the  amplifier  to  deliver  useful  power  continuously  instead  of  on  a  fractional 
time  basis. 

The  only  disadvantage  of  using  lengthened  pulses  arises  from  an  effect, 
very  similar  to  the  "aperture  effect"  encountered  in  sound  movies,  which 
introduces  a  curving  slope  across  the  audio  gain-frequency  characteristic  of 
the  system.  In  the  present  case  the  gain  drops  about  three  decibels  as  the 
frequency  goes  from  the  lowest  to  the  highest  value  of  interest.  This  slope 
can  be  corrected  by  a  simple  equalizing  network,  as  shown  in  Fig.  11.  In 
the  present  system  the  equalization  is  incorporated  in  the  low-pass  filter  at 
the  input  of  each  audio  channel.  This  is  preferable  to  equalizing  at  the 
output,  where  power  is  at  a  premium. 

The  outputs  from  the  channel  amplifiers  are  passed  through  34C0-cycle 
low-pass  filters,  identical  with  the  input  filters  except  for  omission  of  the 
equalization,  and  are  delivered  to  standard  voice-frequency  circuits  at  the 
same  levels*'  as  are  provided  by  a  type  /,  K,  or  L  carrier  system. 

IV.  Component  Circuits 

Many  of  the  circuit  techniques  used  in  the  experimental  system  are  con- 
ventional, others^are  more  or  less  unfamiliar,  and  still  others  are  believed  to 
be  novel.     In  the  following  some  of  the  more  important  building  blocks  are 


26 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


described.  These  include  sampling  circuits,  the  instantaneous  compressor, 
slicers,  and  the  PCM  coder  and  decoder. 

Sampling  Circuits.  The  function  of  opening  and  closing  a  circuit  at  pre- 
scribed instants,  represented  by  rotating  switches  in  the  block  schematics, 
is  actually  performed^  by  one  or  the  other  of  the  devices  shown  in  Fig.  12, 
employing  diodes  and  triodes,  respectively. 

The  diode  type  (Circuit  a)  is  normally  biased  ''open"  by  rectified  charges 
stored  on  the  two  large  capacitors.  While  in  this  condition  it  presents  an 
extremely  high  series  resistance  between  the  low-impedance  input  and  the 
load.  But  when  a  fiat-topped  pulse  is  impressed  upon  the  pulse  transformer, 
the  aforesaid  high  impedance  changes  to  a  low  value  (of  the  order  of  100 


^eL 

, 

)EVIATION    OF   TYPICAL  CHANNEL 

1 

10 

(WITHOUT    4-WIRE  TERMINATING   SET) 

if) 

' 

CD 

/ 

O 

UJ 

/ 

Z 

TOTAL  LOSS  OF  EQUALIZER 
AND  INPUT  AND  OUTPUT   FILTERS 

// 

CO 

1 

-- 

— 

-- 

.-^ 

1 

/ 

O    4 

_J 

■ 

"""■ " 

— 

-- 

— 

-^, 

1 

/i 

/ 

---' 

\ 

s,,. 

-'*> 

7 

2 

\ 

. 

APERTURE   EFFECT 

**'' 

--'' 

/ 

n 

V 

::5- 

_ 



:zX 

rl 

— 

- 

y 

"O  4  8  12  16  20  24  28  32  36 

FREQUENCY  IN    HUNDREDS  OF  CYCLES 

Fig.  11.  Equalization  for  the  aperture  efifect. 

ohms),  for  the  duration  of  the  pulse.  The  upward-sloping  tops  of  the  pulses 
sketched  in  Fig.  12  represent  predistortion  to  allow  for  transmission  through 
the  pulse  transformer,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  rectangular  pulses  at  the 
tube  itself. 

In  the  other  variety  (Circuit  b)  the  plate-cathode  paths  of  the  two  triodes 
are  connected  directly  in  parallel,  conducting  in  opposite  directions.  The 
grids  are  both  arranged  to  be  biased  below  cut-off  during  the  ''open"  con- 
dition of  the  sampler  by  grid  rectification  of  pulses,  and  to  be  driven  strongly 
positive  by  a  pulse  when  a  low-resistance  conducting  path  is  required  be- 
tween source  and  load. 

These  two  types  have  their  respective  advantages.  For  exami)le,  tlie  low 
capacitance  to  ground  which  the  diode  type  affords  across  its  load  makes  it 

'  A  single  exception  is  the  case  of  switch  A  of  Fig.  10.  In  this  case  two  gated  slicer 
circuits  are  used,  as  described  subsequently. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


27 


preferable  for  use  in  the  collector,  where  twelve  samplers  are  multipled  to  a 
common  load.  On  the  other  hand  the  triode  type  affords  a  d-c.path  (without 
the  series  blocking  capacitors  that  are  required  by  circuit  a)  between  source 
and  load.  In  cases  where  a  holding  capacitor  is  to  be  charged  to  a  succession 
of  sample  amplitudes  which  must  be  kept  mutually  independent  to  avoid 
crosstalk,  the  d-c.  path  is  very  desirable  for  it  avoids  "memory"  effects 
associated  with  passage  of  the  charging  currents  through  the  blocking 
capacitors.     A  further  useful  property  of  the  triode  circuit  is  its  abiHty  to 


LOW- IMPEDANCE 
SOURCE   OF 
SIGNAL  TO   BE 
SAMPLED  r 

\ 


PULSE 
TRANSFORMER 


(a) 


LOAD 


CONTROL    PULSE 


LOW-IMPEDANCE, 
SOURCE  \ 


(b) 


1\ 


I — ^MSu- 


L 


PULSE 
■TRANSFORMER 


LOAD 
(R  OR  C) 


CONTROL  PULSE 

Fig.  12.  Diode  and  triode  sampling  circuits. 


sample  signals  of  greater  amplitude  than  that  of  the  control  pulses.  With 
the  diode  circuit,  the  signal  amplitude  must  be  kept  less  than  half  the  pulse 
height. 

Instantaneous  Compressor.  The  simple  configuration  of  the  non-linear 
circuit  used  in  the  compressor  and  in  the  feedback  path  of  the  expandor  is 
shown  in  Fig.  13.  Two  selected  silicon  rectifiers  are  connected  in  parallel, 
but  poled  oppositely,  with  a  small  padding  resistor  {Ri  or  R'^  in  series  with 
each.  A  parallel  padding  resistor  {Rz)  of  large  value  is  also  provided.  The 
direct-current  resistance  of  this  combination  varies  from  about  6000  ohms 
at  zero  signal  to  about  190  ohms  at  the  peak  of  a  full-load  signal.  Input  is 
applied  as  a  current  through  the  relatively  high  resistor  R\,  and  the  voltage 


28 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


drop  across  the  varistor  unit  constitutes  the  compressed  output.  Although 
the  development  of  this  compressor  has  been  a  problem  of  many  interesting 
aspects,  it  must  suffice  here  to  point  out  that  copper-oxide  elements  are 
unsuitable  at  the  speeds  involved  because  of  excessive  capacitance,  that 
silicon  is  superior  to  at  least  the  presently  available  types  of  germanium 


C  R4 

INPUT 1( vW  T 


TEMPERATURE 

CONTROL 

OVEN 


*"  OUTPUT 


SILICON 
RECTIFIERS 


Fig.  13.  Instantaneous  comj^rcssor. 


AMPLITUDE  OF  UNCOMPRESSED   SAMPLES 
IN   DECIBELS   BELOW   MAXIMUM 


JO 

70 

60 

50 

40 

30 

20 

10 

c 

^^ 

^ 

-^ 

^ 

.^ 

^ 

X 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

L/' 

/ 

/ 

20 


30 


0-5 
5  D 

<2 

w  - 

X 
to  ^ 

^  > 

UJ  S 

cr  o 

Q.  -J 

5U 
O  2} 

U.  _l 

O  UJ 

UJ? 

00 

DU 
l-Q 


40  L 

a 
< 


Fig.  14.  Characteristic  of  the  instantaneous  compressor. 

varistor  in  regard  to  freedom  from  certain  memory  or  hysteresis  effects 
believed  to  be  thermal  in  origin,  and  that  a  satisfactory  yield  of  matched 
silicon  elements  appears  to  be  obtainable  by  the  selection  and  resistance 
padding  methods  employed.-  Temperature  control  is  used  for  the  sake  of 
constancy  of  the  compression  characteristic.  Aging  has  been  found 
negligible  over  a  period  of  many  months. 
The  actual  compression  characteristic  afforded  by  these  units  is  plotted 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


29 


in  Fig.  14  in  terms  of  compressed  signal  amplitude  vs.  uncompressed  signal 
amplitude,  both  in  decibels. 

Slicers.  The  sheer  circuit  shown  in  Fig.  15  resembles  a  conventional 
single-trip  multivibrator  in  configuration,  but  functions  somewhat  differ- 
ently because  of  the  choice  of  parameters.  In  particular,  capacitor  C  is 
made  large  enough  so  that  the  potential  drop  across  it  does  not  vary  appreci- 
ably during  normal  operation,  and  plate  resistor  Ri  is  given  a  small  value 
such  that  the  gain  around  the  feedback  path  of  the  circuit  is  approximately 
unity  when  both  triodes  are  in  their  active  regions.  Germanium  varistors 
VRi  and  VR2  maintain  desired  bias  conditions  regardless  of  the  number  of 
pulses  or  spaces  in  the  input  signal.  Unlike  the  single-trip  multivibrator, 
which  when  tripped  remains  so  until  the  charge  on  C  has  had  time  to  relax, 


SLICING 
POTENTIAL 


i 


+  150V 


"TJ-L 


-150V 


Fic.  15.  Slicer  circuit. 


this  circuit  trips  whenever  the  input  signal  falls  through  a  narrow  potential 
range  near  the  value  E,  and  trips  back  again  when  the  input  rises  through 
the  same  potential  range.  A  square  wave  of  constant  amplitude  repre- 
senting an  accurate  thin  slice  of  the  input  is  thus  made  available  across 
resistor  R2.  The  circuit  is  capable  of  high  speed,  slicing  pulses  as  narrow  as 
0.1  microsecond. 

Time  gating  may  readily  be  included  among  the  functions  of  this  circuit, 
through  the  addition  of  a  triode  having  its  plate  and  cathode  connected 
directly  to  the  plate  and  cathode,  respectively,  of  tube  Fi.  The  grid  of  this 
added  triode  is  held  normally  at  ground  potential,  and  is  pulsed  in  the  nega- 
tive direction  by  approximately  rectangular  gating  pulses,  having  an  ampli- 
tude of  about  2E.  The  total  current  passing  through  the  common  cathode 
resistor  i?^  is  essentially  constant,  and  if  either  or  both  of  the  paralleled 
tubes  are  conducting  at  a  given  instant  this  current  is  carried  by  one  or 
shared  by  both  of  them.     Hence  the  tripping  action,  involving  transfer  of 


30  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  cathode  current  to  F2,  cannot  occur  as  long  as  the  grid  of  either  Vi  or  the 
added  tube  is  positive  with  respect  to  the  critical  slicing  potential.  Tripping 
does  occur  whenever  this  limitation  is  removed,  and  thus  the  desired  gating 
and  slicing  functions  are  performed  concurrently. 

In  the  experimental  system  this  circuit  is  used  to  regenerate  the  PCM 
pulses  at  the  common  output  of  the  two  coders,  and  again  at  the  input  of 
each  decoder  to  slice  the  received  pulses  and  to  sort  out  code  groups  of  odd 
and  even  channels. 

Coders.  The  method  of  binary  coding  used  in  this  system  was  originally 
'suggested  by  F.  B.  Llewellyn.  It  employs  a  novel  electron  beam  tube. 
This  device,  pictured  in  Fig.  16,  carries  out  simultaneously  the  two  functions 
of  quantizing  and  of  coding.  The  tube  is  about  10|  inches  long  and 
2\  inches  in  diameter.  It  has  the  128  combinations  of  the  7-digit  code 
laid  out  permanently  as  holes  in  an  "aperture  plate,"  and  translates  sample 
amplitudes  from  the  form  of  beam  deflections  directly  into  PCM  pulse  sym- 
bols. Figure  17  shows  one  of  these  tubes  in  its  socket  on  the  rear  of  a  coder 
panel,  and  above  it  a  rectangular  permalloy  shield  which  covers  the  coding 
tube  of  the  other  coder  serving  the  same  12-channel  group. 

As  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  18  the  coder  includes,  in  addition  to  the 
coding  tube,  a  sampling  and  holding  circuit  which  sorts  out  the  odd  (or  even) 
channels  from  the  input  multiplex  signal,  push-pull  amplifiers  for  vertical 
and  horizontal  beam  deflections,  and  simple  arrangements  for  blanking, 
focusing  and  centering.  Within  the  tube  are  shown,  from  left  to  right,  a 
conventional  electron  gun,  vertical  and  horizontal  deflection  plates,  a  rec- 
tangular '^collector"  for  secondary  electrons,  a  "quantizing  grid,"  the 
"aperture  plate"  and  finally  a  "pulse  plate."  Figure  19  shows  the  target 
end  of  the  tube,  as  viewed  from  a  point  near  the  gun.  "Digit  holes"  in  the 
aperture  plate,  laid  out  in  accordance  with  the  desired  binary  code,  may  be 
seen  behind  stretched  parallel  wires  of  the  quantizing  grid.  One  may  count 
64  narrow  holes  separated  by  equally  narrow  bars  of  metal  in  the  left-hand 
vertical  column,  32  holes  in  the  next  column,  16  in  the  next,  and  so  on  for 
seven  columns.  There  are  129  grid  wires  uniformly  spaced  and  accurately 
aligned  so  as  to  mask  the  upper  and  lower  edges  of  every  one  of  these  holes 
when  viewed  from  the  geometric  "point  of  origin"  of  the  beam. 

Stored  audio  samples  from  the  sampling  and  holding  circuit  provide  poten- 
tial for  the  vertical  deflection,  with  zero  at  the  center,  positive  amplitudes  in 
the  upper  half,  and  negative  amplitudes  in  the  lower  half  of  the  target  area. 
A  sawtooth  sweep  provides  the  horizontal  deflection.  The  beam  is  blanked 
while  deflection  potentials  are  being  changed  to  move  it  upward  or  downward 
from  one  sample  amplitude  to  the  next.  When  first  restored,  the  beam 
strikes  in  the  left-hand  unperforated  region  of  the  aperture  plate,  and  is  then 
swept  linearly  across  from  left  to  right.    Electrons  which  pass  through  the 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


31 


S^  U 


jHD  i 


32 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Fig.  17.  Rear  view  of  part  of  the  collector  (bottom  panel),  ajnipressor,  and  two  coders. 


digit  holes  during  the  sweep  are  caught  by  the  pulse  plate,  forming  pulses 
which  are  amplified,  gated  and  lengthened  in  the  pulse  regenerator  to  con- 
stitute the  desired  PCM  signals.     Retrace  of  the  sweep  occurs  while  the 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


33 


beam  is  blanked,  and  is  simultaneous  with  the  application  of  the  succeeding 
audio  sample. 

The  wires  of  the  quantizing  grid  are  used  to  guide  the  beam  so  that  it  can 
illuminate  only  the  particular  row  of  apertures  which  correspond  to  the 
initial  vertical  deflection.  Without  this  feature,  erroneous  codes  would  be 
produced  when  the  beam  straddled  the  edges  of  apertures  or  crossed  from 
one  ampHtude  level  into  another,  as  a  result  of  electrode  misalignment  or 
possible  slight  drift  in  potential  of  an  applied  sample.  The  guiding  action 
(basically  proposed  by  W.  A.  Harrison  and  applied  to  the  PCM  coder  at  the 
suggestion  of  G.  Hecht)  is  obtained  by  means  of  feedback  from  the  quan- 
tizing grid  to  the  vertical  deflection  amplifier. 


COLLECTOR 


QUANTIZING 
GRID 


-AUDIO  SAMPLES 

FROM 

COMPRESSOR 


APERTURE 
PLATE 


SWEEP 


Fig.  18.  Functional  schematic  of  the  coder. 


The  feedback  signal  is  actually  a  current  taken  from  the  positively  biased 
collector,  which  draws  to  it  secondary  electrons  from  the  grid  wires.  The 
portion  of  the  beam  current  striking  the  grid  varies  as  a  cyclic  function  of 
the  vertical  deflection.  It  follows  that  for  some  spot  positions  the  value 
/X|S  in  the  feedback  loop  is  positive,  for  others  negative;  hence  with  proper 
amplifier  design  there  is  a  stable  and  an  unstable  region  associated  with  each 
wire. 

The  spot  can  come  to  rest  (vertically)  only  within  one  of  the  stable  regions. 
In  order  to  locate  it  consistently  near  the  center  of  such  a  region,  and  thus 
gain  equal  margins  against  ''hopping"  upward  or  downward  across  a  wire, 
a  "quantizing  bias"  is  introduced  into  the  vertical  deflection  amplifier,  along 
with  the  feedback  and  the  signal  samples.  This  bias  is  a  current  of  opposite 
polarity  from  the  unidirectional  feedback  current,  and  of  magnitude  equal 


34  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

to  the  average  between  the  two  values  of  feedback  current  which  exist  when 
the  beam  falls  (1)  directly  on  a  grid  wire  and  (2)  midway  between  two  wires. 
One  may  regard  this  bias  as  pressing  the  beam  upward  against  a  wire,  resisted 
by  downward  pressure  associated  with  the  feedback  current.     The  latter 


Fig.  19.  Interior  of  the  coder  tube,  viewed  from  the  gun  end. 

increases  as  the  beam  approaches  the  wire,  and  equilibrium  is  reached  when 
the  beam  is  about  half  way  between  positions  (1)  and  (2)  mentioned  above. 
The  feedback  current  is  actually  intermittent,  turned  off  and  on  by  the 
blanking  pulse,  and  careful  analysis  shows  it  necessary  to  make  the  bias  inter- 
mittent also,  with  its  wave  fronts  synchronous  with  those  of  the  feedback 
current.  This  is  readily  accomplished  by  deriving  the  bias  from  the  blanking 
signal  itself. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


35 


With  this  arrangement  the  beam,  suddenly  turned  on,  moves  either 
upward  or  downward  from  its  initial  "unquantized"  position  to  the  nearest 
position  of  stable  equilibrium.  Quantization  is  completed  in  less  than  a 
microsecond.  Thereafter,  as  the  beam  is  swept  horizontally  across  the  tar- 
get area,  it  remains  pressed  upw^ard  against  the  lower  surface  of  its  guiding 
wire.  Quantization  is  thus  maintained  until  the  end  of  the  sweep,  when 
blanking  occurs.     The  margins  against  hopping  across  wires,  while  quanti- 


Fig.  20.  ''Television  picture"  of  the  aperture  plate  of  a  coder  tube. 

zation  is  in  effect,  are  related  to  the  amount  of  loop  gain  in  the  feedback  path. 
In  the  present  system  feedback  measuring  about  20  decibels  is  provided,  and 
will  counteract  changes  which,  without  feedback,  would  move  the  beam  two 
grid  wires  in  either  direction  from  the  initial  position. 

This  coding  process,  based  on  the  electron  beam  coding  tube  and  making 
use  of  a  two-dimensional  permanent  layout  of  the  code,  is  more  straight- 
forward than  the  various  coding  processes  w^hich  depend  upon  counting  or 
sequential  comparison.  Accordingly  it  leads  to  higher  speeds  and  greater 
circuit  simplicity. 

Figure  20  illustrates  the  coding  accuracy  obtained.     This  photograph  of 


36 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


the  screen  of  a  test  oscilloscope  may  be  thought  of  as  a  television  picture  of 
the  aperture  plate  of  the  coding-tube.  To  produce  the  pattern  an  audio- 
frequency sawtooth  wave  of  full-load  amplitude  was  applied  to  the  sampling 
and  holding  circuit  at  the  input  of  a  coder.  The  resulting  sample  ampli- 
tudes, quantized  by  the  coding  tube  and  falhng  into  all  the  possible  128  steps 
of  the  quantizing  characteristic  with  uniform  regularity,  were  used  to  ener- 
gize the  vertical  deflection  of  the  test  oscilloscope.     An  ordinary  synchro- 


REGENERATED 
PCM  PULSES 


TIME >-  4,/g^ 

Fig.   21.  Shannon  decoding  circuit  and  waveforms. 


nized  sweep  provided  the  horizontal  deflection.  The  square  PCM  pulses, 
delivered  by  the  coder  via  the  pulse  regenerator,  were  applied  to  the  intensity 
control. 

Thus  the  code  pulses  corresponding  to  each  quantized  amplitude  were 
made  to  appear  as  a  row  of  blanks  in  a  horizontal  trace  at  the  proper  relative 
height.     This  pattern  is  very  useful  in  studying  coder  performance. 

Decoders.  The  decoding  method  is  an  impressively  simple  one  originally 
proposed  by  C.  E.  Shannon.  In  its  basic  form  it  employs  a  pulsed  resistance- 
capacitor  circuit  as  illustrated  in  Fig.  21.  Upon  arrival  of  each  pulse  of  the 
code,  an  identical  increment  of  charge  is  placed  upon  the  capacitor  of  the 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  37 

device.  The  time  constant  /  =  RC  is  such  that,  during  any  single  pulse 
interval,  whatever  charge  is  on  this  capacitor  decays  precisely  50%  in  ampli- 
tude. It  follows  that  the  charge  remaining  at  some  chosen  instant  after 
the  arrival  of  a  complete  code  group  consists  of  contributions  of  all  its  pulses, 
weighted  in  a  binary  manner.  That  is,  if  we  define  the  contribution  of  a 
pulse  in  the  final  digit  position  as  ^,  then  contributions  of  -^ ,  ■§-,  xVj  A? 
■^  and  y^sj  respectively,  are  made  by  pulses  in  successively  earlier  posi- 
tions. Any  value  from  0  to  xf  J"?  in  steps  of  xt8>  niay  thus  be  produced. 
Of  course  the  digit  holes  in  the  aperture .  plate  of  the  coder  are  laid  out  to 
make  this  straight-forward  scheme  workable.  Since  samples  of  low-level 
audio  signals  are  coded  near  the  center  of  the  aperture  plate,  the  corre- 
sponding decoded  values  lie  in  the  neighborhood  of  J. 

The  basic  Shannon  decoder,  then,  comprises  the  resistance-capacitor  cir- 
cuit, means  for  supplying  it  with  precisely  controlled  units  of  charge  at 
precisely  determined  times,  and  a  sampling  and  holding  circuit  (repre- 
sented by  switch  B  or  B'  in  Fig.  10)  to  measure  and  store  the  decoded 
potential  which  is  fleetingly  present  across  the  capacitor  at  a  regularly 
recurring  instant  T,  following  the  final  pulse  position.  The  scheme 
employed  to  inject  the  identical  charges  involves  a  regulated  source  of 
current  and  a  gate  to  admit  this  current  to  the  resistance-capacitor  circuit 
under  control  of  the  regenerated  PCM  pulses.  Two  successive  slicing  opera- 
tions and  careful  gating,  as  described  earlier,  make  these  pulses  more  than 
adequately  uniform. 

The  wave  form  sketches  of  Fig.  21  show  three  typical  decoding  cycles.  In 
the  first,  a  single  pulse  in  digit  position  7  produces  a  decoded  amplitude  of 
J;  in  the  second,  a  pulse  in  position  1  gives  y^q;  and  in  the  third,  pulses  at 
2,  5  and  7  provide  a  decoded  value  of  ^.  It  may  readily  be  verified  that 
the  provision  of  an  idle  channel  interval  between  operations  (following  from 
the  alternate  use  of  two  decoders)  allows  the  residue  of  one  decoding  opera- 
tion to  decay  to  a  negligible  value  (never  larger  than  xJs"  of  ^  single  step 
height  or  "quantum")  by  the  time  of  the  next  consecutive  sampling. 
Experimentally,  interchannel  crosstalk  from  this  source  is  virtually  non- 
existent. 

In  the  foregoing  it  has  been  emphasized  that  precise  timing  is  required  for 
this  basic  Shannon  decoder.  Although  the  necessary  accuracy  was  actually 
obtained  without  great  difficulty  in  early  tests,  a  modification  has  also  been 
introduced  which  eases  the  requirements  to  a  very  marked  extent.  This 
scheme,  devised  by  A.  J.  Rack,  employs  a  damped  resonant  circuit  in  con- 
junction with  the  resistance-capacitance  elements  in  a  manner  illustrated 
by  Fig.  22.  The  natural  frequency  of  the  resonant  circuit  L,  C2,  R2  is  made 
equal  to  the  PCM  pulse  rate,  and  the  time  constant  of  the  damped  oscillation 
{t=2R2C2)  is  matched  to  that  of  the  circuit  Ri,  Ci.    The  same  charging 


38 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


pulses  pass  through  both  sections  of  the  circuit;  hence  by  proper  choice  of 
Ci  and  C2  the  amphtudes  of  the  damped  sine  wave  and  the  exponential  may 
be  proportioned  so  that  the  rate  of  change  of  their  combined  potential 
becomes  zero  at  successive  points  one  pulse  period  apart.  In  fact  it  has  been 
found  possible  to  make  both  the  first  and  the  second  time  derivatives  of 
potential  equal  to  zero  simultaneously  at  such  points. 


1        2       3       4       5      6       7 


C2^      R2>         l; 


TIME 


TO  GATE 


TO  CATHODE 
FOLLOWER 


Fig.  22.  Shannon-Rack  decoder. 


Fig.  23.  Output  of  Shannon-Rack  decoder  for  a  signal  giving  100%  modulation. 


By  this  modification,  not  only  the  times  of  application  of  the  charges  but 
the  time  of  sampling  is  made  much  less  critical.  Of  course  this  presumes 
that  the  sampling  circuit  is  designed  to  complete  its  operation  near  the  center 
of  a  level  region.  In  Fig.  22,  the  voltage  transient  due  to  a  typical  pair  of 
pulses  is  sketched,  and  Fig.  23  shows  an  oscilloscope  screen,  on  which  the 
waveforms  delivered  by  the  cathode  follower  of  one  of  the  Shannon-Rack 
decoders  of  the  system  are  superimposed  for  a  full  set  of  128  possible  code 
combinations  in  sequence. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  39 

V.  Performance 

In  general  the  behavior  of  the  system  has  shown  promise  for  toll  plant 
application.  Among  other  things  the  stability  realized  in  the  adjustments 
of  the  coder  and  decoder,  and  the  apparent  absence  of  aging  or  other  drift 
in  the  compressor  and  expandor  have  been  gratifying.  A  daily  check  of  the 
focus  and  centering  in  the  coders  and  of  the  time  constants  in  the  decoders 
appears  adequate  to  keep  them  in  optimum  adjustment.     The  synchronizing 


Fig.  24.  Output  of  decoder  (vertical)  vs.  input  to  coder  (horizontal). 

gear  has  been  found  equally  easy  to  maintain.  On  the  other  side  of  the 
ledger,  occasional  breakdowns  have  pointed  up  the  need  for  alarm  and  auto- 
matic replacement  facilities  in  any  version  of  the  system  which  might  be 
developed  for  commercial  service. 

A  few  measured  characteristics  are  given  in  this  section  in  addition  to  the 
compression  and  audio  gain-frequency  characteristics  already  shown  (Figs. 
14  and  11,  respectively). 

Input-Output  Characteristics.  The  diagonal  trace  in  the  oscilloscope 
pattern  of  Fig.  24  shows  the  relationship  between  the  input  of  a  coder  (hori- 
zontal deflection)  and  the  output  of  the  corresponding  decoder  (vertical). 
For  this  pattern  a  full-load  audio  signal  was  applied  to  the  input  of  the  odd 


40  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

coder  only  (without  passing  through  the  compressor),  and  the  output  was 
taken  directly  from  the  common  output  of  the  two  decoders.  Thus  the  six 
odd  channels  took  turns  transmitting  the  signal  while  the  six  even  channels 
produced  the  horizontal  center-line.  Uniform  quantizing  steps  may  be  seen 
along  most  of  the  trace,  but  are  obscured  near  the  ends  by  defocusing  of  the 
test  oscilloscope. 

A  similar  pattern,  obtained  with  the  compressor  and  expandor  included 
in  the  transmission  path,  is  shown  in  Fig.  25.  Here  tapered  steps  may  be 
discerned,  as  well  as  a  small  amount  of  non-linearity  due  to  residual  imper- 


Fig.  25.  Output  of  expandor  (vertical)  vs.  input  to  compressor  (horizontal). 

fections  in  the  companding.  The  effect  of  the  channel  peak  choppers  is  not 
included  in  this  pattern. 

Two  measured  overall  input-output  characteristics  appear  in  Fig.  26,  for 
the  case  of  a  typical  single  channel  and  for  five  channels  patched  in  tandem 
through  17-decibel  pads  on  a  4-wire  basis.  The  latter  simulates  a  possible 
extreme  case  of  a  long  circuit  in  which  for  some  reason  it  is  desired  to  decode 
to  audio  at  four  junction  points  as  well  as  at  the  final  terminal.  It  should 
not  be  confused  with  a  series  of  spans  between  which  the  PCM  pulses  are 
amplified  or  regenerated  without  decoding.  In  the  latter  case,  of  course,  the 
overall  audio  characteristics  are  independent  of  the  number  of  spans. 

Audio  Noise.  Quantizing  was  found  to  be  the  only  significant  source  of 
noise  in  the  received  audio  signals.  Noise  levels  measured  in  the  absence  of 
speech  are  shown  in  Fig.  27.     The  measurements  are  given  for  various  num- 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM 


41 


bers  of  channels  from  one  to  ten,  connected  in  tandem  as  described  in  the 
preceding  paragraph.     Two  scales  of  ordinates  are  shown  in  this  figure.     On 


(/)  -J 

-J  o 

?^ 

Q  I- 


D 
O  2 

o 


15 

10 

5 

0 

-5 

-10 

-15 

■20 

-25 

■30 

-35 

-4  0 




—  ^ 

/ 

-— 

^ 

" 

X 

/y 

X 

1  LINK  — 

^ 

5  LINKS 

/ 

/ 

/. 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

-40  -35    -30    -25    -20    -15     -10     -5         0         5        10       15     20 
INPUT  IN    DECIBELS    FROM    1  MILLIWATT  AT  0  LEVEL 
(1000-CYCLE   TONE) 

Fig.  26.  Input-output  characteristics  of  PCM  channels. 


id  o 
-  -J  2  0 


24 

23 

022 

z 

H21 

-  !^ 

u  $ 

^u19 

§? 

O  Q.  16 
a.-  14 

12 
1  1 


?;^ 


O  GROUP  1 
X   GROUP  2 


25 


^15 

59  2  0- 

eo^g 

61   o!j 

62'°0 
_l  o 
CD  O 


64  ti  Q 

o  u 

65  z  ^ 

6  6  (O  CO 
O  Q 

68-| 


69  ^ 


2  3 

NUMBER  OF    LINKS 


4  5 

IN  TANDEM 


8      9    10 


Fig.  27.  Noise  measurements  on  idle  PCM  channels. 


the  left  is  a  reference  scale  of  weighted  noise  employed  in  the  Western 
Electric  2B  Noise  Set;  on  the  right,  a  scale  which  relates  the  corresponding 
unweighted  root-mean-square  noise  to  the  nominal  maximum  undistorted 


42  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

single-frequency  output  of  the  system  (taken  to  be  9  decibels  above  a  milli- 
watt at  zero  level).  This  output  corresponds  to  an  input  just  reaching  the 
peak  limiters.  Thus  in  a  single  link  the  idle  circuit  noise  is  down  about  68 
decibels  from  the  full-load  sine  wave.  For  five  links  in  tandem,  the  readings 
are  at  least  8  decibels  below  the  accepted  limit  (29  decibels  on  the  left-hand 
scale)  for  noise  at  the  end  of  a  4000-mile  circuit.  Quantizing  noise  is  found 
to  increase  approximately  three  decibels  for  each  doubling  of  the  number  of 
links,  as  is  generally  the  case  with  other  forms  of  random  noise. 

For  a  single  channel,  or  a  small  number  of  channels  in  tandem,  the  idle 
circuit  noise  varies  considerably  with  the  vertical  centering  of  the  coding 
tube.  This  may  be  understood  by  noting  that  if  the  zero-signal  operating 
point  effectively  rests  near  the  center  of  a  "tread"  on  the  quantizing  stair- 
case, (Fig.  4)  a  small  amount  of  power  hum  or  other  disturbance  may  simply 
move  it  back  and  forth  on  the  same  tread,  in  which  case  quantizing  noise  is 
entirely  absent.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  operating  point  is  near  a  ''riser" 
the  small  disturbances  may  cause  it  to  joggle  from  one  tread  to  another, 
producing  noise.  The  measurements  given  in  Fig.  27  were  obtained  with  a 
very  quiet  input  circuit  and  with  the  centering  adjusted  for  maximum  noise. 
The  "joggling"  was  produced  largely  by  residual  power  hum. 

A-B  tests  to  compare  PCM  transmission  over  a  single  link  with  direct 
transmission  over  a  noise-free  circuit  of  the  same  audio  band  were  carried  out 
using  a  wide  range  of  talker  volumes.  In  such  tests  only  a  few  experienced 
observers  were  able  to  pick  the  PCM  path  consistently.  When  the  PCM 
circuit  included  five  tandem  links  most  observers  could  tell  the  difference, 
but  all  judged  the  quality  to  be  more  than  satisfactory  for  toll  service. 

Crosstalk.  It  has  been  pointed  out  earlier  in  this  paper  that  interchannel 
crosstalk  in  a  PCM  system  can  occur  only  in  the  terminal  equipment. 
Considerable  care  was  exercised,  particularly  in  the  design  of  the  time- 
division  parts  of  the  system,  to  hold  individual  sources  of  crosstalk  to  70 
decibels  or  better.  As  a  result,  measurements  using  a  single-frequency  test 
tone  and  a  current  analyzer  have  shown  the  overall  crosstalk  from  any  one 
channel  to  any  other  to  be  down  66  decibels  in  the  worst  cases. 

Very  severe  tests  have  also  been  made  in  which  a  loud  talker  was  connected 
to  ten  channels  of  a  group  simultaneously  and  crosstalk  into  either  of  the 
two  remaining  channels  (one  odd,  one  even)  was  listened  to,  and  measured 
with  the  2-B  Noise  Set.  In  such  tests  unintelligible  crosstalk  could  be  de- 
tected, which  seemed  to  consist  of  changes  in  the  quality  of  the  quantizing 
noise  occurring  at  a  syllabic  rate.  The  2-B  readings  averaged  about  a 
decibel  above  the  quantizing  noise  of  a  single  idle  channel  with  occasional 
peaks  reaching  the  17-decibel  point  on  the  reference  scale. 

In  tests  involving  24  talkers  in  12  simultaneous  conversations,  crosstalk 
was  practically  undetectable. 


MULTICHANNEL  MODULATION  SYSTEM  43 

Radio  Interference  and  Noise.  To  obtain  experimental  confirmation  of 
the  expected  tolerance  to  high  interference  levels  in  the  radio  path,  the 
output  of  an  oscillator,  tunable  through  the  band  near  65  megacycles,  was 
superimposed  upon  the  received  intermediate-frequency  signal  at  the  input 
to  the  group  selection  filters.  With  this  controllable  interference  tuned  near 
the  center  of  the  Group  1  filter,  and  its  amplitude  set  6  decibels  below  the 
peak  amplitude  of  the  (noise-free)  pulses,  errors  were  so  plentiful  that  the 
demodulator  did  not  remain  synchronized.  Proper  framing  was  restored 
when  the  amplitude  difference  was  increased  to  7  decibels,  but  enough 
decoding  errors  remained  to  give  intolerable  audio  noise.  At  8  decibels 
only  an  occasional  crackle  of  noise  was  observed,  and  at  9  decibels  reception 
was  perfectly  normal.  Similar  tests  of  Group  2  gave  the  same  results  except, 
of  course,  that  synchronization  was  not  affected.  The  fact  that  noise-free 
transmission  was  not  maintained  quite  up  to  the  ideal  6-decibel  point  is  due 
principally  to  the  width  (0.4  microsecond)  of  the  gate  which  is  applied  to  the 
rounded  PCM  pulses  entering  the  receiving  equipment.  If  necessary  the 
ideal  could  undoubtedly  be  approached  more  closely  by  reducing  this 
width,  thus  admitting  only  the  extreme  peaks  and  troughs  of  the  signal. 

The  effects  of  actual  fluctuation  noise  were  studied  by  sending  the  PCM 
pulses  over  the  radio  path  at  reduced  level.  The  boundary  between  good 
and  bad  transmission  was  not  so  sharp  as  with  the  continuous-wave  inter- 
ference, as  should  be  expected  because  of  the  random  nature  of  the  noise. 
Flawless  reception  occurred  when  the  root-mean-square  signal  at  the  peak 
of  a  pulse  was  greater  by  18  decibels  than  the  root-mean-square  noise,  both 
measurements  being  made  at  the  output  of  a  group  selection  filter. 

VI.  Acknowledgment 

The  system  described  is  the  result  of  the  co-ordinated  efforts  of  many 
people.  In  particular,  the  writers  wish  to  express  their  appreciation  to 
Mr.  R.  W.  Sears  for  his  development  of  the  coding  tube,  and  to  acknowledge 
the  contributions  of  certain  others  who  have  been  actively  concerned  with 
various  phases  of  the  project.  These  include  Messrs.  R.  L.  Carbrey,  A.  E. 
Johanson,  J.  M.  Manley,  G.  W.  Pentico,  A.  J.  Rack,  P.  A.  Reiling,  L.  R. 
Wrathall,  and  the  mechanics  and  wiremen  who  have  kept  to  their  usual  high 
standards  throughout  countless  circuit  changes. 

The  project  was  under  the  overall  direction  of  Mr.  C.  B.  Feldman. 


Electron  Beam  Deflection  Tube  for  Pulse  Code  Modulation 

By  R.W.  SEARS 

Introduction 

pULSE  code  transmission  systems^  in  which  successive  signal  ampHtude 
-*-  samples  are  transmitted  by  pulse  code  groups  require  special  modulators. 
The  essential  operational  requirements  of  a  pulse  code  modulator  are:  (1) 
to  quantize  or  measure  the  signal  amplitude  sample  to  the  nearest  step  in 
the  discrete  amplitude  scale  transmitted  by  the  pulse  code  system,  and  (2) 
to  generate  the  group  of  on-off  pulses  identifying  the  step. 

Several  methods  have  been  proposed^  •  ^  •  ^  in  which  quantization  and  pulse 
formation  were  performed  with  circuits  employing  conventional  electron 
tubes.  The  circuits  involved  sequential  and  comparison  operations  and 
were  not  easily  adapted  to  a  multi-channel  time  division  system  because  of 
limitations  in  coding  speeds  and  the  complexity  of  the  equipment.  An 
electron  beam  deflection  tube  has  been  developed  which,  together  with  as- 
sociated beam  positioning  and  sweep  circuits,  performs  the  modulation 
rapidly,  making  possible  the  sequential  modulation  of  a  number  of  channels 
in  time  division  multiplex. 

The  electronic  principles,  design  and  characteristics  of  the  experimental 
tube  are  described  in  the  present  paper. 

Conversion  from  Signal  Input  to  Pulse  Code  Output 

An  electrical  input  voltage  may  be  converted  into  an  output  code  pulse 
group  with  the  electron  beam  deflection  tube  shown  in  Fig.  la.  An  aperture 
or  code  masking  plate  is  arranged  perpendicular  to  the  axis  of  the  electron 
gun  at  the  focal  point.  The  coordinates  of  the  aperture  plate  are  aligned 
with  the  deflection  axes  of  the  X  and  Y  deflector  plate  pairs.  The  electron 
beam  strikes  the  output  plate  when  it  passes  through  an  opening  in  the 
aperture  plate. 

An  input  voltage  of  appropriate  value  applied  to  the  Y  deflector  plates 
will  deflect  the  beam  to  point  "a"  of  the  aperture  plate  as  indicated  in  Fig. 
la.    A  linear  sweep  voltage  applied  to  the  X  deflection  plates,  while  the 

^  An  Experimental  Multi-Channel  Pulse  Code  Modulation  System  of  Toll  Quality, 
L,  A.  Meacham  and  E,  Peterson,  this  issue. 

2  A.  H.  Reeves,  U.  S.  Patent  M  2,272,070,  Feb.  3,  1942. 

3  H.  S.  Black  and  J.  O.  Edson,  paper  presented  June  11,  1947  at  A.  I.  E.  E.  meeting; 
Montreal,  Canada. 

*  W.  M.  Goodall,  Bell  System  Technical  Journal,  July  1947. 

44 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION 


45 


input  voltage  on  the  Y  deflection  plates  is  held  constant,  causes  the  electron 
beam  to  sweep  across  the  aperture  plate  along  the  dashed  line  a-b.  A  time 
sequence  of  output  pulses  is  produced  at  the  output  plate  when  the  beam 
passes  through  the  apertures  of  the  code  p'ate  along  the  path  a-b. 

A  series  of  output  pulses  or  a  ''pulse  group"  is  characterized  by  the  pres- 
ence of  pulses  at  time  positions  corresponding  to  the  several  vertical  columns 
of  apertures.     The  code  plate  shown  in  Fig.  1  is  laid  out  in  accordance  with 


OUTPUT 
PLATE 


B^fj' 


(b) 


Fig.  1 — Electron  beam  deflection  tube  for  coding. 


Y, 

'           1        2       3 

4 

a- 
r 

-Qf]f - 

Tl__. 

a( 
Mr 

--■  --< 

)b 

0- 





the  binary  number  system  pattern^  which  was  chosen  for  the  present  pulse 
code  work  because  of  the  simplicity  of  decoding.  The  four-digit  code  plate 
shown  in  the  tube  of  Fig.  1  provides  for  coding  only  16  amplitude  values 
and  was  used  to  facilitate  the  illustration.     The  tube  developed  for  the  ex- 

^  The  four  vertical  columns  of  the  four-digit  code  plate  in  Fig.  lb  provide  four  positions 
in  time  for  output  pulses.  Vertical  columns  marked  1,  2,  3  and  4  correspond  to  the  first, 
second,  third  and  fourth  digits,  respectively,  of  the  pulse  code  transmitted.  Pulses  lo- 
cated in  time  in  accordance  with  this  notation  are  given  "weights"  of  1,  2,  4  and  8,  respec- 
tively. Sixteen  pulse  group  combinations  are  indicated  by  the  16  dashed  horizontal 
lines  in  Fig.  lb.  The  pulse  group  defined  by  beam  sweep  a  corresponds  to  a  total  "weight" 
of  15;  beam  positions  ^  and  7  correspond  to  total  "weights"  of  14  and  13,  respectively, 
and  so  on,  with  the  bottom  horizontal  dashed  line  in  the  figure  corresponding  to  zero. 


46  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

perimental  pulse  code  system  uses  a  seven-digit  code  plate  which  provides 
for  coding  128  amplitude  values. 

The  vertical  distances  between  the  centers  of  successive  code  sweep  posi- 
tions (horizontal  dashed  lines  in  Fig.  lb)  are  made  equal  so  that  the  codes 
are  spaced  by  equal  input  voltage  steps.  A  continuous  range  of  input  sig- 
nal amplitudes  will  result  in  a  continuous  range  of  horizontal  sweep  positions. 
With  an  infinitely  small  electron  beam,  input  signal  amplitudes  in  the  range 
from  0  to  ji  will  produce  a  single  output  pulse  group  and  input  signal  sam- 
ple amplitudes  from  ji  to  y2  will  produce  another  output  pulse  group.  This 
process  of  dividing  the  total  input  amplitude  range  into  finite  steps  and  ar- 
ranging that  input  voltages  falling  within  each  step  produce  one  and  only 
one  output  pulse  group  is  called  quantization. 

The  tube  of  Fig.  1  will  only  quantize  effectively  if  the  electron  beam  is 
infinitely  small  and  the  sweep  and  aperture  plate  axes  are  aligned  exactly. 
With  a  finite  beam  size,  there  will  be  sweep  positions  for  which  the  beam 
straddles  and  sweeps  out  a  combination  of  two  adjacent  codes. 

Precise  quantization  and  a  uniform  pulse  output  are  required.  The 
problems  of  quantizing,  alignment  and  uniform  pufee  output  have  been 
solved  by  the  use  of  a  wire  grid,  called  the  quantizing  grid,  located  in  front 
of  the  aperture  plate. 

Quantization  of  Beam  Position  by  Feedback 

The  quantizing  grid  consists  of  a  horizontal  array  of  grid  wires  aligned 
parallel  to  the  code  sweep  or  X  axis  of  the  aperture  plate.  The  grid  spacings 
and  alignment  are  such  that  a  wire  lies  between  each  adjacent  pair  of  code 
groups  as  viewed  from  the  various  incident  angles  of  the  deflected  electron 
beam.  The  quantizing  grid,  by  means  of  an  electrical  feedback  path  to  the 
signal  deflection  plates,  divides  the  input  signal  range  into  a  number  of 
equal  steps  and  positions  the  electron  beam  to  the  proper  level  for  the  code 
corresponding  to  the  voltage  step  within  which  the  signal  amplitude  sample 
falls.  The  quantizing  grid  wires  also  constrain  the  electron  beam  during 
the  formation  of  the  output  code  pulses,  so  that  it  must  sweep  out  the  code 
initially  selected.  In  general,  wires  or  shaped  electrodes  of  any  sort  located 
where  the  electron  beam  can  impinge  thereon  and  connected  in  feedback 
relation  to  the  deflection  system  constrains  the  electron  beam  to  move  in 
patterns  prescribed  by  these  electrodes  and  are  thus  called  beam  guides. 

The  coding  tube  with  quantizing  grid  and  feedback  circuit  is  shown 
schematically  in  Fig.  2.  The  electrode  line-up,  reading  from  left  to  right 
in  the  figure,  consists  of  an  electron  gun,  deflection  system,  secondary  elec- 
tron collector,  quantizing  grid,  aperture  plate  and  output  plate. 

For  the  present  purpose,  a  consideration  of  the  collector  and  output  plate 
electrodes  is  omitted  and  it  is  assumed  that  the  grid  does  not  emit  secondary 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION 


47 


electrons  when  bombarded.  Electrons  which  strike  the  grid  produce  a  cur- 
rent in  the  grid  circuit  while  electrons  that  miss  the  grid  have  no  effect  in 
the  grid  circuit.  The  electron  beam  current  intercepted  by  the  grid  will  be 
dependent  on  the  y  deflection  or  position  of  the  electron  beam.  The  cur- 
rent is  a  maximum  when  the  beam  is  centered  on  a  grid  wire  and  a  mini- 
mum when  it  is  centered  between  two  grid  wires  and  varies  with  beam  posi- 
tion as  indicated  by  the  curve  in  the  lower  portion  of  Fig.  3.  The  curve  is 
constructed  for  the  case  in  which  the  beam  diameter  is  slightly  greater  than 
the  space  between  two  grid  wires.  The  current  to  the  grid  never  becomes 
zero  for  any  beam  position.  It  may  be  thought  of  as  having  a  ''d-c.  com- 
ponent" B.  Amplifier  2  in  Fig.  2  introduces  a  bias  which  cancels  this  "d-c. 
component"  so  that  the  feedback  voltage  is  symmetrical  about  zero. 


•     INPUT 
VOLTAGE 


AMPLIFIER 


plates: 

APERTURE     OUTPUT 


ELECTRON         DEFLECTOR 
GUN  PLATES 


AMPLIFIER 

2 


Fig.  2 — Coding  tube  with  quantizing  grid  and  circuit  schematic. 


The  grid  current  is  amplified  and  the  voltage  developed  is  applied  in  feed- 
back relation  to  the  F  deflection  plates  as  shown  in  Fig.  2.  The  case  in 
which  a  positive  feedback  potential  deflects  the  beam  in  the  same  direction 
as  that  for  a  positive  signal  voltage  will  be  considered. 

The  beam  deflecting  voltage  is  equal  to  the  sum  of  signal  and  feedback 
voltages  and  the  beam  position  is  a  linear  function  of  the  deflection  voltage 
so  we  may  write 


e  +  Dy  =  6/ 


(1) 


where  e  is  the  input  signal  voltage,  D  the  deflection  constant,  y  the  beam 
deflection  or  position  and  e/  the  feedback  voltage.  The  feedback  voltage 
6/  is  a  periodic  function  of  beam  position  y.  Equation  1  therefore  defines 
equilibrium  beam  positions  for  input  signal  voltage  e.  Equilibrium  beam 
positions  in  accordance  with  Equation  1  are  determined  graphically  in  the 


48 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


top  portion  of  Fig.  3.  The  feedback  voltage  representing  the  right-hand 
side  of  Equation  1  is  plotted  as  a  function  of  beam  position.  The  electron 
beam  will  have  several. possible  positions  of  equilibrium  at  points  (_/>!,  p2, 
p3,  pA,  pS,  p6  and  p7)  where  the  deflection  line  D  erected  from  —e,  repre- 
senting the  left-hand  portion  of  Equation  1,  crosses  the  feedback  curve. 
These  are  the  only  beam  positions  for  which  the  deflection  potential  (signal 
plus  feedback)  attains  correct  values  for  corresponding  beam  positions. 


5 

6 

6^ 

UJU) 

\        A         A        A        A 

AAA 

r\       r\       r 

tr 

\        /\        /\        /\        /\ 

/  \        /  \        /  \ 

\      1  \      1 

(C(J) 

\       /   \       /   \       /   \       /    \ 

/    \        /    \       /    \ 

\         \      I 

3-7 

I      /    \       /    \      /    \      /    \ 

/     \       /     \       /     \ 

I    \     /   \     / 

"^N 

I      /     \      /     1      /     \      /     \ 

/     I      /      I      /      \ 

/    \     /    \     / 

E^ 

/      \ 

/     \         H"T 

q:< 

\    /       \    /      \    /       \    /       \ 

/        \     /       \    /       I 

/      \   /     I   / 

i-o 

\    /       \    /       \    /       \    /       I 

/        \    /        \    /        \ 

/      \  /      \  / 

^^ 

1/     Vy     w     V      V 

\          VJ       \ 

J      \l      \l    ^ 

mO 

\j     \j     \j     ^     \ 

J          \J          \J          \ 

J       \j       \j 

1 

C 

i 

BEAM     POSITION 

Fig.  3 — Graphical  representation  of  quantization. 


However,  only  positions  pi,  p3,  pS  and  pi  will  be  in  a  true  state  of  equilib- 
rium. This  can  be  seen  as  follows:  Consider  the  beam  at  point  p?>\  if  the 
beam  is  perturbed  toward  the  right,  the  feedback  voltage  tending  to  deflect 
the  beam  to  the  left  increases.  The  opposite  action  ensues  if  the  beam  is 
perturbed  in  the  left-hand  direction.  Point  p?>  is  a  true  equilibrium  point. 
On  the  other  hand,  consider  the  beam  at  position  />4.  If  the  beam  is  per- 
turbed to  the  right,  the  feedback  voltage  tending  to  deflect  it  to  the  right 
increases  and  the  beam  continues  to  move  until  it  reaches  the  equilibrium 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION  49 

position  p5.  If  the  beam  is  perturbed  to  the  left  from  position  />4  it  will 
continue  to  move  to  the  left  until  it  reaches  position  p3. 

The  number  of  possible  equilibrium  beam  positions  for  an  input  signal 
sample  depends  on  the  maximum  values  of  the  feedback  voltage  and  the 
slope  of  the  deflection  characteristic.  It  is  necessary  that  only  one  equilib- 
rium beam  position  be  available  for  a  particular  small  range  of  signal  voltage. 
This  can  be  achieved  as  follows:  if  a  signal  voltage  e  is  established  with 
the  feedback  circuit  inoperative,  the  beam  will  be  at  a  position  p,  Fig.  3. 
When  the  feedback  circuit  is  activated  with  the  signal  voltage  held  at  e,  the 
beam  will  move  from  p  to  p5.  With  this  procedure,  signals  in  the  range 
from  ei  to  62  will  result  in  equilibrium  beam  positions  between  points  /  and 
r  on  the  curve.  Thus,  for  signal  voltages  within  the  range  from  ei  to  62  the 
beam  will  fall  in  the  small  spacial  interval  m,  whereas  beam  positions  for 
input  signals  in  the  same  range  without  feedback  would  vary  from  grid 
wire  5  to  grid  wire  6.  Likewise,  signal  voltages  between  e^  and  63  will  cause 
the  beam  to  assume  positions  between  5  and  /  in  the  spacial  interval  n. 
The  electron  beam  may  be  thought  of  as  "leaning"  on  one  side  of  a  grid 
wire  for  a  finite  signal  voltage  range  and  on  the  same  side  of  the  next  grid 
wire  for  an  adjacent  signal  voltage  range. 

If  the  feedback  voltage  is  of  the  opposite  polarity  to  that  assumed  above, 
the  quantizing  action  proceeds  in  the  same  manner  except  that  the  quan- 
tized beam  positions  lie  at  the  left  of  the  wires.  The  beam  may  be  thought 
of  as  "leaning"  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  grid  wire. 

The  proper  quantizing  action  is  obtained  by  establishing  and  holding  the 
signal  voltage  with  the  feedback  circuit  inoperative  and  then  activating  this 
circuit.  The  feedback  circuit  may  be  deactivated  and  activated  by  either 
(a)  blanking  and  deblanking  the  electron  beam,  or  (b)  defocusing  and 
focusing  the  electron  beam  by  applying  the  proper  voltage  change  to  the 
beam  control  or  focusing  electrodes  of  the  gun,  respectively. 

Since  the  grid  wires  are  parallel  to  the  horizontal  rows  of  aperture  holes, 
the  feedback  action  constrains  the  beam  to  sweep  out  the  code  group  initially 
selected  even  though  the  sweep  axis  is  tilted  slightly  with  respect  to  the 
grid  wires  and  aperture  plate.  The  maximum  swing  of  the  feedback  volt- 
age at  the  deflection  plates  should  be  about  three  or  four  times  the  value  of 
the  voltage  required  to  deflect  the  beam  from  one  code  group  to  the  next  in 
order  to  provide  ample  protection  against  the  beam  jumping  from  one  code 
group  to  the  next  code  group  during  the  sweep. 

The  Experimental  Coding  Tube 

The  seven-digit  experimental  tube  developed  for  pulse  code  transmission 
system  trials  utilizing  the  electrode  lineup  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  2  is 
pictured  in  Fig.  4.    The  electron  gun  assembly  and  the  target  plate  assembly 


50 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


S^U 


I 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION  51 

are  sealed  in  at  opposite  ends  of  the  tube  envelope.  The  over-all  length  of 
the  tube  is  UJ''  with  a  maximum  bulb  diameter  of  2Y\ 

The  electron  gun  operates  at  a  final  anode  potential  of  1000  volts  with  a 
beam  current  of  approximately  10  microamperes.  A  potential  of  about  100 
volts  applied  to  the  signal  input  deflection  plates  deflects  the  beam  from  the 
center  to  the  top  of  the  aperture  plate.  This  corresponds  to  a  maximum 
deflection  angle  of  10^°. 

The  four  electrodes  of  the  target  assembly,  secondary  collector,  quantizing 
grid,  aperture  plate  and  output  plate  are  shown  in  the  photograph  of  Fig.  5 
from  bottom  to  top  respectively.  The  secondary  collector  is  a  simple  rec- 
tangular shaped  electrode.  The  quantizing  grid  consists  of  a  circular  frame 
with  a  parallel  array  of  grid  wires  stretched  across  a  rectangular  opening. 
The  aperture  plate  is  a  thin  disc  with  apertures  arranged  in  a  binary  pattern 
which  provides  for  a  seven-digit  code.  The  output  plate  is  a  thin  circular 
disc.  Both  aperture  and  output  plates  are  coated  with  a  carbon  layer  to 
suppress  secondary  electron  emission  from  their  surfaces. 

The  parts  of  the  target  assembly  are  held  in  accurate  alignment  in  a  jig 
and  cemented  and  held  in  position  on  four  ceramic  rods.  The  entire  as- 
sembly is  held  rigidly  in  the  tube  envelope  by  means  of  spacers  attached  to 
the  quantizing  grid  and  output  plate. 

The  target  assembly  is  ahgned  with  the  electron  gun  and  deflection  plate 
axes  by  means  of  lineup  tools  in  the  glass  lathe  at  the  time  the  final  seal  is 
made  at  the  center  of  the  glass  envelope.  It  has  been  possible  to  hold  the 
alignment  of  the  deflection  axes  with  the  aperture  plate  to  within  sHghtly 
less  than  1°  with  this  construction. 

The  construction  of  the  quantizing  grid  may  be  seen  more  clearly  in  the 
photograph  of  Fig.  6.  The  grid  frame  has  raised  portions  on  two  sides  of 
the  rectangular  opening.  These  are  milled  with  a  series  of  grooves  for  each 
grid  wire.  The  grid  laterals  are  affixed  in  the  grooves  by  brazing  and  are 
thus  accurately  spaced  with  respect  to  each  other  and  to  assembly  lineup 
holes  which  can  be  seen  spaced  around  the  edge  of  the  grid  frame. 
The  wires  are  held  taut  by  means  of  a  flat  spring  which  is  welded  to  the 
grid  frame  and  supplies  tension  to  stretch  the  lateral  wires.  The  grid  wires 
are  4.0  mils  in  diameter,  processed  to  have  a  secondary  emission  coefficient 
of  about  3.     The  laterals  are  spaced  11.6  mils  between  centers. 

The  openings  in  the  aperture  plate  are  made  by  a  punching  operation. 
The  area  of  the  aperture  plate  covered  by  the  first  and  second  digit  columns 
is  milled  to  a  thickness  of  5  mils  in  order  to  facilitate  accurate  punching  of 
the  smallest  apertures.  The  apertures  in  the  first  digit  column  (bottom 
horizontal  row  in  Fig.  5)  are  rectangular  .012''  x  .062''.  The  seven-digit 
code  pattern  provides  128  different  output  pulse  groups.    The  wide  openings 


52  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


r;.^4^-^-|M^ 


Fig.  5 — Target  electrodes. 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION 


53 


at  the  left  hand  side  of  the  aperture  plate  in  Fig.  5  provide  a  peak  amplitude 
range  for  which  the  output  pulse  group  consists  of  all  seven  pulses.  This  in 
effect  provides  a  peak  limiting  action. 

Leads  from  the  four  electrodes  of  the  target  assembly  are  brought  out 
directly  to  terminal  caps  on  the  side  and  end  of  the  tube  envelope  to  decrease 
the  interelectrode  capacitances  and  to  facilitate  direct  connection  to  external 
circuits. 


Fig.  6 — Quantizing  grid. 


Operational  and  Design  Considerations 

The  quantizing  action  depends  on  the  periodic  variation  of  electron  beam 
current  intercepted  by  the  wires  of  the  quantizing  grid  with  beam  position. 
Secondary  electron  emission  from  the  grid  and  other  electrodes  was  assimied 
to  be  negligible  with  the  feedback  circuit  connected  directly  to  the  quantiz- 
ing grid  as  shown  in  Fig.  2.  The  uniform  suppression  of  secondary  electrons 
is  difficult  to  achieve  even  though  the  grid  is  coated  and  processed  for  a  low 
secondary  ratio.  It  is  also  difficult  to  prevent  secondary  electrons  produced 
at  the  aperture  plate  from  being  collected  by  the  grid. 

A  preferred  method  of  operation  utilizes  the  secondary  electrons  produced 


54  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

at  the  grid  by  the  impinging  primary  beam  for  the  quantizing  action  rather 
than  the  directly  intercepted  electron  current  as  heretofore  assumed.  The 
secondary  electron  collector  located  in  front  of  the  quantizing  grid  is  main- 
tained at  a  positive  potential  and  collects  most  of  the  secondaries  from  the 
grid.  There  is,  of  course,  a  correspondence  between  the  secondary  electron 
current  and  the  fraction  of  the  beam  current  intercepted  by  the  grid  wires. 
The  quantizing  circuit  is  made  by  connecting  the  feedback  path  to  the 
secondary  collector  and  the  quantizing  action  proceeds  as  described  hereto- 
fore. This  method  has  the  following  advantages  over  the  direct  primary 
current  method:  (1)  the  collector  current  as  a  function  of  beam  position  is 
much  more  regular;  (2)  the  swing  between  maximum  and  minimum  current 
is  considerably  larger  because  of  the  secondary  emission  multiplication  at 
the  grid  surface;  and  (3)  the  capacitance  between  collector  and  ground  is 
lower  than  the  capacitance  between  the  closely  spaced  grid  and  aperture 
plate. 

With  secondary  electron  current  feedback,  the  aperture  plate  is  operated 
at  a  positive  potential  relative  to  the  grid  to  suppress  secondary  electrons 
from  the  aperture  plate.  The  proportion  of  the  secondary  emission  from 
the  grid  collected  by  the  aperture  plate  is  small  compared  with  that  collected 
by  the  secondary  collector.  High  velocity  secondaries  originating  at  the 
aperture  plate  are,  however,  able  to  penetrate  the  retarding  field  and  strike 
the  grid.  These  energetic  secondaries  produce  low-velocity  secondaries  at 
the  grid  which  flow  to  the  secondary  cojlector  electrode.  This  alters  the 
character  of  the  secondary  collector  current  in  accordance  with  the  spacial 
pattern  of  the  apertures  in  the  code  plate.  The  surface  of  the  aperture  plate 
is  carbonized  to  reduce  the  emission  of  high- velocity  secondaries.  The  spa- 
cial variation  of  the  quantizing  current  is  reduced  to  less  than  10%  of 
the  total  quantizing  current  swing  with  this  treatment. 

The  periodic  nature  of  the  quantizing  current  with  beam  position  must  be 
as  uniform  as  possible  as  regards  both  the  ''a-c"  and  ''d-c"  components. 
The  maximum  swing  should  also  be  as  large  as  possible  to  permit  the  use 
of  the  lowest  possible  impedance  in  the  feedback  path  to  obtain  a  wideband 
characteristic  for  fast  coding. 

The  factors  which  determine  the  maximum  current  swing  are  electron 
beam  current,  secondary  emission  coefficient  of  the  grid  wires,  electron 
beam  spot  size,  grid  wire  diameter  and  spacing.  The  quantized  beam  falls 
approximately  halfway  between  the  center  of  a  grid  wire  and  the  midpoint 
between  wires.  The  beam  must  be  small  enough  that  its  edge  does  not 
extend  into  the  region  beyond  the  wire  on  which  it  ''leans"  by  an  appre- 
ciable amount.  This  is  obtained  with  the  electron  beam  focused  to  a  spot 
slightly  smaller  than  that  for  maximum  quantizing  current  amplitude. 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION 


55 


Optimum  performance  has  been  obtained  with  the  electron  beam  focused 
to  a  radius^  of  about  5  mils  for  the  grid  spacings  previously  specified. 

The  principal  irregularities  in  the  periodic  quantizing  current  are  caused 
by  variations  in  secondary  emission  coefficient  of  the  grid  and  aperture 
plate  and  deflection  defocusing  of  the  electron  beam.  The  secondary 
emission  from  the  grid  surface  can  be  made  sufficiently  uniform  by  careful 
processing.     This  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  7  which  is  a  trace  of  an  oscilloscope 


iNfttfittNtfHti******* 


**^**Hf,tt 


:i|l|H*SM|*M^,n*#**MM*|M.^ji||_^ 


Fig.  7 — Variation  of  quantizing  current  with  beam  deflection. 


Fig.  8 — Deflection  defocussing. 


presentation  of  the  secondary  collector  current  as  the  beam  is  deflected  by  a 
linear  sweep  at  right  angles  to  the  grid  laterals.  The  trace  was  limited  to 
cover  a  sufficiently  small  number  of  wires  to  show  details  of  its  shape. 
Figure  8a  illustrates  the  effect  of  deflection  defocusing.  The  sweep  was 
expanded  to  cover  all  of  the  grid  wires  and  the  electron  beam  focused  for 
maximum  ampUtude  in  the  center  region.     The  curve  is  so  compressed  that 

6  Distance  from  the  center  of  the  beam  to  a  point  at  which  the  electron  current  density 
is  5%  of  its  value  at  the  center. 


56 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


the  individual  oscillations  of  the  current  between  maximum  and  minimum 
values  can  hardly  be  resolved.  The  envelope  of  the  curve  indicates  the 
extent  to  which  the  swing  is  reduced  at  the  two  ends  by  the  increase  in 
electron  beam  spot  size  which  results  from  deflection  defocusing.  In  Fig. 
8b,  the  focusing  voltage  has  been  changed  by  12  volts  and  it  can  be  seen 
that  the  beam  is  in  focus  at  the  maximum  deflection  angles  and  out  of 
focus  in  the  center  region.  With  an  intermediate  or  compromise  focus  volt- 
age, the  tube  will  quantize  satisfactorily  over  the  entire  code  range.  Best 
results  have  been  obtained  with  the  tube  in  the  experimental  pulse  code 
system  by  the  use  of  a  simple  circuit  which  changes  the  focus  voltage  in  a 
linear  manner  with  the  rectified  or  absolute  value  of  the  input  deflecting 
signal  thus  compensating  for  the  deflection  defocusing  of  the  tube. 


Fig.  9 — Typical  pulse  code  outputs. 


The  output  plate  is  usually  operated  at  a  positive  potential  relative  to  the 
aperture  plate  with  attendant  suppression  of  secondary  emission  from  the 
former.  Output  pulses  of  opposite  polarity  may  be  obtained  by  operating 
the  output  plate  at  a  negative  potential  and  processing  this  plate  to  have  a 
secondary  emission  ratio  greater  than  unity. 

The  several  groups  of  output  pulses  shown  in  Fig.  9  are  illustrative  of  the 
tube  output.  Successive  digit  pulse  positions  occur  from  left  to  right  in 
the  figures.  The  small  kink  in  the  base  line  at  the  first  and  second  digit 
pulse  positions  in  codes  a  and  b  respectively  are  small  error  pulses  caused 
by  a  small  portion  of  the  edge  of  the  beam  overlapping  a  grid  wire  when  the 
beam  is  quantized.  Error  pulses  of  this  magnitude  are  readily  eliminated 
by  slicing  when  the  tube  is  used  in  the  pulse  code  transmission  system. 


TUBE  FOR  PULSE  CODE  MODULATION  57 

Coding  tubes  have  operated  satisfactorily  for  long  periods  of  time  in  the 
experimental  multi-channel  pulse  code  system  and  have  required  minor 
adjustments  of  potentials  no  more  than  once  a  day.  The  tube  operates  in 
this  equipment  with  a  code  sweep  time  of  10  microseconds. 

Acknowledgment 

The  writer  wishes  to  acknowledge  the  original  suggestions  of  Dr.  F.  B. 
Llewellyn  and  Mr.  G.  Hecht  and  the  help  of  his  colleagues.  The  contribu- 
tions and  wholehearted  cooperation  of  Messrs.  C.  B.  Feldman,  L.  A. 
Meacham  and  their  associates  who  concurrently  developed  the  pulse  code 
system  and  circuits  associated  with  the  coding  tube,  have  been  invaluable. 
Mr.  A.  Salecker  deserves  a  great  deal  of  credit  for  the  detailed  mechanical 
design  of  the  tube  and  his  work  in  producing  tube  models. 

The  development  was  under  the  over-all  direction  of  Mr.  J.  R.  Wilson 
and  Dr.  S.  B.  Ingram. 


Metallic  Delay  Lenses 

By  WINSTON  E.  KOCK 

A  metallic  lens  antenna  is  described  in  which  the  focussing  action  is  obtained 
by  a  reduction  of  the  phase  velocity  of  radio  waves  passing  through  the  lens  rather 
than  by  increasing  it  as  in  the  original  metal  plate  lens.  The  lens  shape  accord- 
ingly corresponds  to  that  of  a  glass  optical  lens,  being  thick  at  the  center  and 
thin  at  the  edges.  The  reduced  velocity  or  "delay"  is  caused  by  the  presence  of 
conducting  elements  whose  length  in  the  direction  of  the  electric  vector  of  the 
impressed  field  is  small  compared  to  the  wavelength;  these  act  as  small  dipoles 
similar  to  the  molecular  dipoles  set  up  in  non-polar  dielectrics  by  an  impressed 
field.  The  lens  possesses  the  relatively  broad  band  characteristics  of  a  solid 
dielectric  lens,  and  since  the  conducting  element  can  be  made  quite  light,  the 
weight  advantage  of  the  metal  lens  is  retained.  Various  types  of  lenses  are 
described  and  a  theoretical  discussion  of  the  expected  dielectric  constants  is  given. 
An  antenna  design  which  is  especially  suitable  for  microwave  repeater  application 
is  described  in  some  detail. 

Introduction 

THE  metal  lens  antennas  described  by  the  v^riter  elsewhere^  comprised 
rows  of  conducting  plates  which  acted  as  wave  guides ;  a  focussing  effect 
was  achieved  by  virtue  of  the  higher  phase  velocity  of  electromagnetic 
waves  passing  between  the  plates.  Higher  phase  velocity  connotes  an 
effective  index  of  refraction  less  than  unity,  and  a  converging  lens  therefore 
assumes  a  concave  shape.  The  relation  between  the  index  of  refraction  w, 
the  plate  spacing,  a,  and  the  wavelength  X 

n  -  Vl  -  (X/2a)2,  (1) 

indicates  that  the  refractive  index  varies  with  wave  length.  As  a  conse- 
quence, such  lenses  exhibit  ''chromatic  abberation";  i.e.  the  band  of  fre- 
quencies over  which  they  will  satisfactorily  operate  is  limited.  Although 
some  of  these  lenses  may  have  ample  bandwidth  (15%  to  20%)  for  most 
microwave  applications,  others,  having  large  apertures  in  wavelengths,  may 
have  objectionable  bandwidth  limitations.  For  example,  the  lens  of  Fig.  1, 
having  an  aperture  diameter  of  96  wavelengths,  has  a  useful  bandwidth  of 
only  5%. 

As  a  means  for  overcoming  these  band  limitations,  the  metallic  lenses  of 
this  paper  were  developed.  They  are  light  in  weight  and  possess  an  index  of 
refraction  which  can  be  made  sensibly  constant  over  any  desired  band  of 
microwave  frequencies.  They  avoid  the  weight  disadvantages  of  glass  or 
plastic  lenses,  and  retain  the  tolerance  and  shielding  advantages  of  the  lens 

»  W.  E.  Kock,  Bell  Laboratories  Record,  May  1946,  p.  193;  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  Nov.  1946, 
p.  828. 

58 


J 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES 


59 


over  the  reflector  antenna.  Because  electromagnetic  waves  passing  through 
them  are  slowed  down  or  "delayed"  (as  in  the  glass  lenses  of  optics),  they  are 
called  delay  lenses;  and  since  the  elements  in  the  lenses  which  produce  the 
delay  are  purely  metallic,  they  are  called  metallic  delay  lenses. 


Fig.  1— Waveguide  metallic  lens  having  an  aperture  of  96  wavelengths  and  a  useful 
bandwidth  of  5%. 

PART  I— EXPERIMENTAL 

Fundamental  Principles 

The  artificial  dielectric  material  which  constitutes  the  delay  lens  was 
arrived  at  by  reproducing,  on  a  much  larger  scale,  those  processes  occurring 


60  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

in  the  molecules  of  a  true  dielectric  which  produce  the  observed  delay  of 
electromagnetic  waves  in  such  dielectrics.  This  involved  arranging  metallic 
elements  in  a  three-dimensional  array  or  lattice  structure  to  simulate  the 
crystalline  lattices  of  the  dielectric  material.  Such  an  array  responds  to 
radio  waves  just  as  a  molecular  lattice  responds  to  Ught  waves;  the  free 
electrons  in  the  metal  elements  flow  back  and  forth  under  the  action  of  the 
alternating  electric  field,  causing  the  elements  to  become  oscillating  dipoles 
similar  to  the  oscillating  molecular  dipoles  of  the  dielectric.  In  both  cases, 
the  relation  between  the  effective  dielectric  constant  e  of  the  medium,  the 
density  of  the  elements  N  (number  per  unit  volume)  and  the  dipole  strength 
(polarizability  a  of  each  element)  is  approximately  given  by 

€  =  €0  +  iVa  (2) 

where  €o  is  the  dielectric  constant  of  free  space. 

There  are  two  requirements  which  are  imposed  on  the  lattice  structure. 
First,  the  spacing  of  the  elements  must  be  somewhat  less  than  one  wave- 
length of  the  shortest  radio  wave  length  to  be  transmitted,  otherwise  dif- 
fraction effects  will  occur  as  in  ordinary  dielectrics  when  the  wavelength  is 
shorter  than  the  lattice  spacing  (X-ray  diffraction  by  crystalline  substances). 
Secondly,  the  size  of  the  elements  must  be  small  relative  to  the  minimum 
wavelength  so  that  resonance  effects  are  avoided.  The  first  resonance 
occurs  when  the  element  size  is  approximately  one  half  wavelength,  and  for 
frequencies  in  the  vicinity  of  this  resonance  frequency  the  polarizability  a  of 
the  element  is  not  independent  of  frequency.  If  the  element  size  is  made 
equal  to  or  less  than  one  quarter  wavelength  at  the  smallest  operating 
wavelength,  it  is  found  that  a  and  hence  e  in  equation  2  is  substantially 
constant  for  all  longer  wavelengths. 

Since  lenses  of  this  type  will  effect  an  equal  amount  of  wave  delay  at  all 
wavelengths  which  are  long  compared  to  the  size  and  spacing  of  the  objects, 
they  can  be  designed  to  operate  over  any  desired  wavelength  band.  For 
large  operating  bandwidths,  the  stepping  process^  is  to  be  avoided,  since  the 
step  design  is  correct  only  at  one  particular  wavelength.  Such  unstepped 
lenses  are  thicker,  but  the  diffraction  at  the  steps  is  eliminated  and  a  some- 
what higher  gain  and  superior  pattern  compared  to  a  stepped  lens  is  achieved. 
By  tilting  the  lens  a  small  amount,  energy  reflected  from  it  is  prevented  from 
entering  the  feed  line  and  a  good  impedance  match  between  the  antenna  and 
the  line  can  be  maintained  over  a  large  band  of  frequencies. 

Another  way  of  looking  at  the  wave  delay  produced  by  lattices  of  small 
conductors  is  to  consider  them  as  capacitative  elements  which  "load"  free 

« The  lens  of  Fig.  1  has  12  steps. 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES  61 

space,  just  as  parallel  capacitors  on  a  transmission  line  act  as  loading  ele- 
ments to  reduce  the  wave  velocity.  Consider  a  charged  parallel  plate  air 
condenser  with  its  electric  lines  of  force  perpendicular  to  the  plates.  Its 
capacity  can  be  increased  either  by  the  insertion  of  dielectric  material  or  by 
the  insertion  of  insulated  conducting  objects  between  the  plates  if  the  ob- 
jects have  some  length  in  the  direction  of  the  electric  lines  of  force.  This  is 
because  such  objects  will  cause  a  rearrangement  of  the  lines  of  force  (with  a 
consequent  increase  in  their  number)  similar  to  that  produced  by  the  shift, 
due  to  an  applied  field,  of  the  oppositely  charged  particles  comprising  the 
molecules  of  the  dielectric  material.  The  conducting  elements  in  the  lens 
may  thus  be  considered  either  as  portions  of  individual  condensers,  or  as 
objects  which,  under  the  action  of  the  applied  field,  act  as  dipoles  and  pro- 
duce a  dielectric  polarization,  similar  to  that  formed  by  the  rearrangement  of 
the  charged  particles  comprising  a  non-polar  dielectric.^  Either  viewpoint 
leads  to  the  delay  mechanism  observed  in  the  focussing  action  of  the  arti- 
ficial dielectric  lenses  to  be  described. 

Experimental  Models 

We  turn  now  to  experimental  exemplifications  of  lenses  built  in  accordance 
with  the  principles  outlined  above. 
(a)  Sphere  Array 

One  of  the  simpler  shapes  of  conducting  elements  to  be  tried  was  the 
sphere.  Figure  2  is  a  sketch  of  an  array  of  conducting  spheres  arranged 
approximately  in  the  shape  of  a  convex  lens.  The  spheres  are  mounted  on 
insulated  supporting  rods;  the  microwave  feed  horn  and  receiver  are  shown 
at  the  right.  The  focal  length  is  /,  the  radius  of  the  lens  "aperture"  is  y, 
the  maximum  thickness  is  x  and  not  only  the  spacmgs  5i  and  ^2  but  also  the 
size  of  the  spheres  are  small  compared  to  the  wavelength.  Rays  A  and  B 
are  of  equal  electrical  length  because  ray  A  is  slowed  down  or  delayed  in 
passing  through  the  lens.  Figure  3  is  a  photograph  of  the  lens  of  Fig.  2; 
it  also  portrays  a  similar  sphere  array  lens  made  of  steel  ball  bearings  sup- 
ported by  sheets  of  polystyrene  foam^  which  have  holes  drilled  in  them  to 
accept  the  spheres.  In  both  cases  the  balls  are  arranged  in  a  symmetrical 
lattice.     It  will  be  shown  below  that  the  polarizabiHty  a  of  a  conducting 

'  Polar  dielectrics  have  arrangements  of  charged  particles  which  are  electric  dipoles 
even  before  an  external  electric  field  is  applied;  the  field  tends  to  align  these  and  the  amount 
of  polarization  (and  hence  the  dielectric  constant)  that  they  exhibit  depends  upon  tempera- 
ture, since  colhsions  tend  to  destroy  the  aUgnment.  Non-polar  (or  hetero-polar)  molecules 
have  no  dipole  moment  until  an  electric  field  is  applied;  the  polarization  of  such  materials 
(and  of  the  artificial  dielectrics  we  are  discussing)  is  accordingly  independent  of  tempera- 
ture.    See,  for  example,  Debye,  "Polar  Molecules",  Chap.  III. 

*  Styrofoam  (Dow) .  Because  of  its  low  density  (1  to  2  pounds  per  cu.  ft.) ,  its  contribu- 
tion to  the  wave  delay  is  neghgible  (er  =  1.02). 


62 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

S2K 


Fig.  2 — Lattice  of  conducting  spheres  arranged  to  form  a  convex  lens. 


I^F^  «  «  « 
^*  •  •  ®  ®  »  ® 

®  •  • » » 


Fig.  3 — Left:  The  sphere  lens  of  Fig.  2.     Right:  Sphere  hit  tier    upporUd  !>>    loam 
sheets. 

sphere  of  radius  a  is  4t€o^',  so  that,  for  static  fields,  the  relative  dielectric 
constant  is,  from  (2), 


€Ao  =  1  +  AirNa^ 


(3) 


where  N  =  number  of  spheres  per  unit  volume. 

For  most  dielectrics,  the  index  of  refraction  is  simply  the  square  root  of 
the  relative  dielectric  constant.  However,  in  the  case  of  the  sphere  lens  at 
microwaves  eddy  currents  on  the  surface  of  the  spheres  prevent  the  magnetic 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES  j^, 

^!^Tflr""  ^T/'T' ''''"^  "^^'^  ''"^  ''  ^"'  "^^  ^^"  '^t"  'hat  this  effect 
causes  the  expected  value  of  the  index  of  refraction  to  be  smaller  than  that 
determined  by  the  usual  equation 

(4) 


Fig.  4 — Lattice  of  conducting  disks  arranged  to  form  a  plano-convex  lens.   Polystyrene 

foam  sheets  support  the  disks. 


To  avoid  this  effect  the  elements  should  be  shaped  so  as  not  to  alter  the 
magnetic  lines  of  force.     This  can  be  done  by  making  their  dimension  in  the 
direction  of  propagation  of  the  impressed  waves  negligibly  small. 
(b)  Disk  Array 

One  accordingly  arrives  at  the  lens  design  shown  in  Fig.  4  in  which  the 
spheres  are  replaced  by  copper  foil  disks  lying  in  planes  parallel  to  the 


64 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


impressed  E  and  H  vectors.  The  supporting  sheets  are  again  polystyrene 
foam.  The  foil  disks  have  negligible  thickness  so  that  the  magnetic  lines 
are  unaffected  as  shown  in  Fig.  5.  Equation  (4)  is  therevore  valid  even  at 
radio  frequencies  and  the  index  of  refraction  of  this  material  is  obtainable 

1 A  3 

from  (4)  and  (2)  with  a  equal  to  — ^ ,  as  shown  in  the  last  section. 

o 

(c)  Strip  Array 

Both  the  sphere  and  disk  type  lenses  have  the  advantage  that  they  will 
perform  equally  well  on  horizontally  or  vertically  polarized  waves.  If  the 
lens  is  required  to  focus  only  one  type  of  wave  polarization  the  disks  can  be 
replaced  by  thin,  flat,  conducting  strips  extending  in  length  in  the  direction 


Fig.  5 — Disturbance  of  the  magnetic  field  is  avoided  by  the  use  of  disks  instead  of 
spheres. 

of  the  magnetic  vector  of  the  apphed  field.  A  simple  method  of  constructing 
such  a  lens  is  shown  in  Fig.  6.  Slabs  of  dielectric  foam  are  slotted  to  a 
depth  equal  to  the  strip  width  and  each  slab  is  marked  with  the  profile 
contour  necessary  to  produce  the  final  plano-convex  lens.  The  metal 
strips  are  then  cut  to  the  length  indicated  on  the  profile  and  inserted  in  the 
slots.  With  the  strips  in  place  the  unit  slabs  are  stacked  on  top  of  one 
another  and  held  in  a  mounting  frame  to  form  the  complete  lens.  Figure  7 
shows  one  slab  of  a  10-foot  strip  type  lens  being  assembled  and  Fig.  8  shows 
a  six-foot  square  lens  half  assembled.  Figure  9  shows  directional  patterns 
of  a  3-foot  diameter  lens  of  this  type  made  up  of  J  inch  x..005  inch  strips 
spaced  \'^  in  the  slabs  and  the  slabs  \Y  thick.  The  three  patterns  were 
taken  over  a  12%  band  of  frequencies  with  the  lens  purposely  illuminated  by 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES 


65 


a  low  directivity  teed  at  the  focal  point.  This  produced  an  almost  uniform 
illumination  across  the  aperture  at  all  three  wavelengths  so  that  the  side 
lobes  were  not  too  well  suppressed.  However,  the  deep  minima  in  all  three 
directional  patterns  indicate  the  relative  absence  of  curvature  of  the  emerg- 
ing phase  front;  this  signifies  that  the  strip  dielectric  has  a  negligible  varia- 
tion of  refractive  index  over  the  indicated  wavelength  band. 
(d)  Sprayed  Sheet  Lenses 

The  disk  lens  or  strip  lens  can  be  constructed  in  the  manner  indicated  in 
Fig.  10,  which  shows  two  lenses  made  by  spraying  conducting  paint  on  thin 
dielectric  sheets  through  masks.     This  results  in  round  dot  or  square  dot 


METAL   STRIPS    CUT 
TO   PROPER    LENGTH 


SLOT 


FOAM 
SLABS 


CIRC 
OUT 


Fig.  6 — Construction  of  a  delay  lens  employing  metallic  strips  as  the  delay  elements. 


patterns  on  the  sheets  and  the  size  circle  used  on  each  sheet  determines  the 
three-dimensional  contour  when  the  sheets  are  stacked  up  to  form  the  lens. 
Those  in  the  photograph  are  spaced  by  wooden  spacers  as  shown  in  the  sketch 
of  Fig.  11;  for  large  lenses  it  would  probably  be  preferable  to  cement  the 
sheets  to  polystyrene  foam  spacers,  thereby  making  a  solid  foam  lens. 
Because  of  the  small  size  of  the  elements,  the  lens  on  the  left  in  Fig.  10,  was 
effective  at  wavelengths  as  short  as  1.25  cm,  in  addition  to  longer  wave- 
lengths (3,  7  and  10  cm).  The  lens  of  Fig.  12  was  made  by  metal  spraying 
metallic  tin  directly  on  circular  foam  slabs  through  masks,  and  the  foam 
disks  then  cemented  together. 

Strip  lenses  can  also  be  constructed  in  this  way.     The  lens  in  Fig.  13, 


66 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Fig.  8 — A  six-foot  square  strip  lens  half  assembled. 


f=3860MC 


f=4iaO  MC 


f  =4360MC 


O    10 

u 

Q 

z 

o 

z 
u 

(T 

<0  20 

i  I 

25 


30 


3DB-J 

t- 

A 

A 

1 

h 

P 

\l 

i 

1 

1 

1 

.41 

^^•9° 

i 

I 

J 

1 

1/1 

1/       U 

20        10         0         10       20      20        10         0         10       20       20        10        0         10      20 

DEGREES 

Fig.  9— Directional  patterns  of  a  3-foot  diameter  lens  at  several  frequencies. 

67 


6g 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Fig.  10 — Lenses  constructed  by  spraying  conducting  paint  on  cellophane  sheets. 


WOOD   SPACERS 


CELLOPHANE 
SHEETS 


OUTLINE  OF   SPRAYED 
PORTION  or  SHEETS 


Fig.  11— Construction  details  of  the  lenses  of  Fig.  10. 


was  made  by  affixing  copper  foil  strips  to  cellophane  sheets  and  stacking  the 
sheets  with  no  spacing  other  than  the  sheets  themselves  between  them. 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES 


69 


This  extremely  close  spacing  and  the  staggered  arrangement  of  strips  cor- 
respond to  a  heavy  capacitative  loading  and  introduced  so  much  delay  per 
unit  length  that  the  measured  effective  dielectric  constant  of  this  lens  proved 
to  be  225  (i.e.  the  index  of  refraction  was  15).  Because  of  such  a  high 
dielectric  constant  the  reflection  losses  at  the  surface  of  this  lens  are  high, 


"■'W 


Fig.  12— Lens  formed  by  metal-spraying  tin  directly  onto  polystyrene  foam  sheets. 

SO  that,  for  efficient  operation,  tapered  or  quarter  wave  matching  sections  on 
each  surface  would  be  necessary. 
(e)  Frequency  Sensitive  Delay  Lenses 

When  the  conducting  elements  approach  a  half  wavelength  in  their  length 
parallel  to  the  electric  vector,  resonance  effects  occur  and  the  artificial 
dielectric  behaves  like  an  ordinary  dielectric  near  its  region  of  anomalous 


70 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


dispersion.*^  The  index  of  refraction  of  an  artificial  dielectric  using  f" 
metallic  elements  would  increase  rapidly  as  the  wavelength  approached 
\Y  until,  at  X  =  \Y  the  dielectric  would  be  opaque.  At  still  lower  wave- 
lengths, the  material  would  appear  to  have  an  index  of  refraction  less  than 
one. 


Fig.  13 — Closely  spaced  strip  coh^ihk  lidn  comprising  copj^er  foil  strips  affixed  to 
cellophane  sheets.  Juxtaposition  of  the  sheets  yielded  an  effective  index  of  refraction  of 
15. 


Elements,  such  as  rods,  which  are  X/2  long,  have  a  very  broad  resonance 
band,  and  the  region  of  anomalous  dispersion  in  a  dielectric  utilizing  such 

'  Anomalous  dispersion  occurs  in  optical  substances  when  the  frequency  of  the  inciden* 
light  wave  approximates  one  of  the  vibrational  resonance  frequencies  of  the  molecule.  On 
the  long  wavelength  side  of  this  resonance  region  the  index  of  refraction  is  greater  than 
one  and  increases  rapidly  as  the  resonance  wavelength  is  approached.  Dispersion,  which 
is  the  change  of  index  of  refraction  with  frequency,  is  therefore  very  high,  but  it  is  the 
"normal"  type  of  dispersion.  At  resonance,  the  absorption  of  the  wave  is  high  and  the 
substance  becomes  opaque.  At  still  shorter  wavelengths,  the  resonance  phenomenon 
acts  to  make  the  index  of  refraction  less  than  its  long  wavelength  value,  often  less  than  one, 
and  the  index  again  varies  rapidly  with  wavelength,  but  because  this  is  an  "abnormal" 
type  of  dispersion,  it  is  called  the  region  of  anomalous  dispersion. 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES 


71 


rods  is  very  large,  i.e.,  the  dispersion  is  not  very  great.  If  it  is  desired  to 
have  a  highly  dispersive  material,  this  band  can  be  considerably  reduced 
by  the  process  of  tilting  the  rods  so  that  they  are  more  nearly  perpendicular 
to  the  electric  vector.  They  thereby  become  '' loosely  coupled"  to  the 
incident  wave  and  acquire  a  higher  Q.  Some  unsymmetrical  arrangement 
such  as  that  shown  in  Fig.  14  is  necessary  to  insure  that  the  radiation 
damping  of  the  elements  is  actually  reduced,  since  a  uniform  tilt  of  all  the 
elements  would  allow  the  array  to  radiate,  unhindered,  a  wave  polarized 
parallel  to  the  elements.  Measurements  of  the  index  of  refraction  of  a 
dielectric  made  up  of  successive  arrays  of  rods  arranged  as  in  Fig.  14  are 


Fig.  14 — Array  of  metal  rods  to  produce  a  narrow  dispersion  band. 


F 
rods 


ig.  15 
of  Fig.  14. 


4  400     4000     3600     3200     2800 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Measured  index  of  refraction  of  a  metallic  dielectric  comprising  the  tilted 


given  in  Fig.  15,  and  one  observes  a  marked  similarity  to  the  behavior  of  the 
index  of  refraction  of  dielectrics  in  the  region  of  their  anomalous  dispersion. 
Because  of  the  rapid  change  of  n  with  wavelength,  such  material  may  be 
useful  as  a  means  of  separating  narrow  band  radio  channels  by  the  use  of 
prisms  or  by  lenses  having  several  feed  horns  located  at  the  optimum  focal 
points  for  the  various  frequency  bands  involved. 

Microwave  Repeater  Antenna 
For  radio  relay  applications,  there  are  three  electrical  characteristics 
which  antennas  should  possess.     The  first  is  high  gain  (effective  area),  as 
this  will  reduce  the  path  loss  and  accordingly  the  requirements  on  trans- 


72  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

mitter  power.  The  second  is  good  directional  qualities  so  as  to  minimize 
interference  from  outside  sources  and  also  interferences  between  adjacent 
antennas.  The  third  is  a  good  impedance  match  so  that  reflections  between 
the  antenna  and  the  repeater  equipment  will  not  distort  the  transmitted 
signal.  These  characteristics  should  preferably  be  attainable  without  the 
imposition  of  severe  mechanical  or  constructional  requirements. 

The  shielded  lens  type  of  antenna  (lens  in  the  aperture  of  a  horn)  lends 
itself  well  to  repeater  work  because  of  its  moderate  tolerance  requirements, 
its  good  directional  properties  associated  with  the  shielding,  and  the  desirable 
impedance  characteristic  obtainable  by  tilting  the  lens.  The  delay  lens 
offers  the  additional  advantage  of  broad  band  performance  with  the  con- 
sequent possibility  of  operating  on  several  bands  widely  separated  in  wave- 
length. In  this  section,  construction  details  and  performance  of  a  6-foot 
square  aperture  strip  type  delay  lens  will  be  discussed. 

(a)  Design  of  the  Artificial  Dielectric 

The  operating  frequency  band  envisioned  for  this  antenna  was  3700  to 
4200  megacycles  (X  =  7.15  to  8.1  cm),  and  to  keep  the  element  length 
sufficiently  well  removed  from  the  half-wave  resonant  length  a  value  of  f " 
for  the  strip  width  was  chosen.  The  index  of  refraction  of  solid  polystyrene 
is  approximately  1.61  and  this  introduces  a  reflection  loss  (mismatch  loss) 
at  each  surface  of  0.225  decibels.  To  reduce  this  loss  to  0.18  db.  the  arti- 
ficial dielectric  was  designed  to  have  an  w  of  1.5  as  this  still  did  not  impart 
too  great  a  thickness  to  the  lens.  A  combination  of  strip  spacings  which 
yields  an  w  of  1.5  was  found  to  be  f"  in  the  horizontal  direction  and  \^" 
center  to  center  spacing  in  the  vertical  direction  as  shown  in  Fig.  16.  The 
construction  method  of  Fig.  6  was  used  which  involved  inserting  .002'' 
copper  strip  into  slots  cut  in  foam  sheets. 

(b)  Lens  Design 

Several  lens  shapes  were  possible:  (1)  bi-convex,  (2)  plano-convex  with 
the  flat  side  toward  the  feed,  and  (3)  plano-convex  with  the  curved  side 
toward  the  feed.  For  a  given  thickness  and  therefore  weight  of  lens,  the 
third  possibility  produces  the  shortest  over-all  structure  of  lens  plus  horn 
feed,  and  it  was  accordingly  selected.  The  curved  side  is  then  a  hyperboloid 
of  revolution  as  shown  in  Fig.  17  and  for  the  chosen  focal  length  of  60",  the 
profile,  as  calculated  from  the  equation  shown  for  n  =  1.5,  reaches  a  maxi- 
mum thickness  of  16".  To  eliminate  the  reflection  from  the  lens  into  the 
feed,  a  lens  tilt  could  have  been  employed.  It  was  found  that  a  quarter 
wave  offset  of  one  half  of  the  lens  relative  to  the  other  half  could  accomplish 
this  same  purj)ose,  because  reflected  rays  from  one  half  of  the  lens  then 
undergo  a  one  half  wavelength  longer  path  in  returning  to  the  feed  and  the 
reflections  from  the  two  halves  cancel.  As  this  process,  however,  is  com- 
pletely effective  only  at  one  frequency,  the  final  lens  design  employed  both  a 


iiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiir 

IIIIIMMIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES 

3/8" 

METAL  STRIP 

NSERTS 

(VIEWED  END  ON  ) 


7i 


lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
4 


IIIIIIMIIIIIMIIMIIIMMIMIM 


1 

1    V,6 


ENLARGEMENT  OF 
CENTER    SECTION 


REMOVABLE 
HORN 


Fig.  16— Construction  of  a  six-foot  square  shielded  delay  lens  for  repeater  application. 
The  wooden  horn  has  a  metal  interior  surface. 


FOR  THE  PHASE  LENGTH  OF 
RAYS  A  AND  B  TO  BE  EQUAL 


y(f  +  x)2  +  y' 


THE    EQUATION  OF   THE  LENS 
CONTOUR    IS  A   HYPERBOLA. 


-►X 


Fig.  17— Profile  equation  for  a  delay  lens, 


74 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOUMAL 


tilt  in  one  plane  and  a  quarter  wave  offset  in  the  other  plane.  To  utilize 
most  efficiently  the  space  afforded  the  antenna  on  the  top  of  the  relay  tower, 
the  lens  aperture  was  made  square.  Since  an  unstepped  lens  has,  by  its 
nature,  a  circular  aperture,  the  four  corners  of  the  horn  aperture  must  be 
filled  in  with  lens  material  as  sketched  in  Fig.  18.  The  step  height  is 
designed  for  midband  wavelength  and  in  the  present  case  follows  the  equa- 
tion of  Fig.  17  with  the  focal  length  reduced  from  the  value  used  for  the 
main  lens  section  by  K\/{n  —  1)  where  K  is  an  integer.    That  integer  K  is 


CURVES   FOR 
VARIOUS    INTEGERS,  K 

Fig.  18— Filling  in  the  four  comers  of  a  square  horn  aperture  with  lens  material. 

selected  which  brings  the  step  profile  nearest  the  horn  corners  as  indicated 

in  Fig.  18. 

(c)  Horn  Shield 

Lenses  can  be  energized  by  means  of  a  small  feed  horn  placed  at  the  focal 
point,  but  to  obtain  the  best  directional  properties  a  full  metallic  shield 
extending  from  the  wave  guide  feed  up  to  the  sides  of  the  lens  should  be 
employed.  The  use  of  foam  slabs  in  the  construction  of  the  delay  lens 
prevents  this  shield  from  extending  completely  up  to  the  lens  as  indicated 
by  the  extension  of  A-Ay  (shown  dotted)  in  Fig.  16.    Optical  formulas 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES 


75 


indicate,  however,  that  for  such  large  apertures,  the  amount  of  diffraction 
(spreading  of  the  waves  outside  of  the  pyramid  formed  by  the  dotted  Hues) 
will  be  small,  and  it  is  only  necessary  that  the  sides  AAi,  AiB  and  BC  all  be 
conducting  to  insure  good  back  lobe  suppression  and  other  desired  properties 
associated  with  a  horn  shield.  • 
(d)  Performance 

The  gain  of  this  antenna  over  an  isotropic  radiator  is  plotted  in  Fig.  19. 
The  top  curve  is  the  theoretical  gain  of  a  uniform  current  sheet  of  the  same 
area  (6'  x  6'),  the  lower  curve  the  gain  of  a  6'  x  6'  area  having  60%  effective 
area.  The  points,  which  fall  approximately  on  the  lower  curve,  are  the 
experimentally  measured  gain  values  of  this  antenna  at  the  frequencies 


39 


o 

IJ38 
o 


34 


. — - 

4nA 
X2 

( 

, 

1 

' 

3920 


4020  4120  4220 

FREQUENCY  IN   MEGACYCLES  PER    SECOND 


4320 


Fig.  19 — Measured  gain  characteristics  of  the  six-foot  square  shielded  lens  of  Fig.  16. 
The  lower  line  indicates  60%  effective  area  and  the  circles  are  experimental  points. 

indicated.  The  constant  percentage  effective  area  indicates  that  the  index 
of  refraction  of  the  lens  material  remains  quite  constant  over  the  indicated 
frequency  band.  In  contrast  to  this,  the  10'  x  10'  metal  plate  lenses^ 
{n  <  1)  exhibit,  at  the  band  edges,  a  falling  off  of  IJ  decibels  from  midband 
gain  for  a  10%  wavelength  band. 

The  magnetic  plane  pattern  of  the  lens  when  fed  by  a  6-inch  square  feed 
horn  is  shown  in  Fig.  20.  The  remarkable  symmetry  of  the  minor  lobes  in 
Fig.  20  and  also  in  Fig.  9  shows  that  the  phase  fronts  of  the  waves  radiated 
by  these  antennas  are  very  accurately  flat.  This  result  emphasizes  the 
tolerance  advantages  of  the  lens  over  the  reflector.    It  is  believed  that  the 


^  Loc.  cit. 


76 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


further  improvement  in  pattern  of  this  lens  over  previous  wave  guide  type 
metal  lenses  is  attributable  to  the  absence  of  steps,  as  they  tend  to  introduce 
diffraction  effects.     The  symmetry  of  the  pattern  also  indicates  a  high  degree 


l^'ig.  20 — Directional  pattern  of  the  lens  of  Figs.  8  and  16  when  fed  with  a  six-inch 
stjuare  electromagnetic  horn. 


5  0 

DEGREES 


V^^ 


Fig.  21 — Directional  pattern  of  the  same  lens  when  enclosed  with  a  full  horn  shield. 

of  homogeneity  of  the  dielectric  (the  lens  is  16  inches  thick) ;  this  is  a  prop- 
erty not  always  shared  by  ordinary  dielectrics  such  as  polystyrene. 

When  a  full  horn  shield  is  used,  the  illumination  across  the  aperture  has  a 
very  strong  taper  (somewhat  stronger  than  a  cosine  taper  because  of  the 
wide  flare  angle  of  the  horn).  This  results  in  a  very  effective  suppression  of 
the  close-in  side  lobes  as  shown  in  Fig.  21.     In  the  vertical  plane,  the  side 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES  77 

lobes  are  not  very  well  suppressed  because  the  illumination  is  only  slightly 
tapered.  However,  for  repeater  work,  lobes  in  the  vertical  plane  are  not  as 
objectionable  as  lobes  in  the  horizontal  plane  because  interfering  signals 
generally  originate  from  other  stations  lying  in  the  horizon  plane. 

The  impedance  match  of  the  shielded  lens  antenna  is  affected  by  the 
discontinuity  of  the  wave  guide  at  the  expanding  horn  throat  and  by  what- 
ever energy  is  reflected  back  into  the  feed  line  from  the  lens.  By  tuning 
means,  the  throat  mismatch  can  be  held  to  less  than  0.2  db  SWR  (1.02 
V.S.W.R.)  over  the  500  mc  band  and  by  a  combination  of  lens  tilt  and 
quarter-wave  step  in  the  lens  the  SWR  due  to  the  energy  reflected  from  the 
lens  was  also  held  to  less  than  0.2  db  over  the  band. 

PART  II— THEORETICAL  CONSIDERATIONS 

We  turn  now  to  a  consideration  of  the  electromagnetic  theory  underlying 
the  operation  of  artificial  dielectrics.  If  the  polarizability  of  the  individual 
conducting  element  employed  is  known,  equation  (2)  will  permit  a  calcula- 
tion of  the  effective  dielectric  constant.  Before  proceeding  to  this,  however, 
a  brief  review  of  dipole  moment,  dipole  potential,  and  dielectric  polarization 
will  be  given  (MKS  units). 

Dipole  Moment,  Potential  and  Polarization 

Two  charges,  +9  and  —q,  displaced  a  small  distance  from  one  another, 
constitute  an  electric  dipole.  If  the  vector  joining  them  is  called  ds,  the 
dipole  moment  is  defined  as 

m  =  q  ds.  (5) 

The  potential  V,  at  any  point,  due  to  a  point-charge  q  is  defined  as 

V  =  g/47r€r,  .     (6) 

where  r  is  the  distance  from  the  point  in  question  to  the  charge  q.  The 
potential  V  due  to  a  dipole  of  moment  m  is 

r=i^,cos(»,  (7) 

where  6  is  the  angle  between  r  and  m. 

A  conducting  object  becomes  polarized  when  placed  in  an  electric  field. 
Its  dipole  moment  m  depends  upon  the  field  strength  E  and  upon  its  own 
polarizability  a: 

m  =  aE.  (8) 

If  there  are  .V  elements  per  unit  volume,  the  polarization  P  of  the  artificial 
dielectric  is 

P  =  NoE,  (9) 


78  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

But  P  is  related  to  the  displacement  vector  D  and  the  dielectric  constant  as 
follows: 

Z)  =  €£  =  eo£  +  P,  (10) 

so  that  €  =  eo  +  Na  which  is  equation  (1).  A  knowledge  of  a  thus  permits 
a  determination  of  €.  We  obtain  a  from  (8)  by  first  finding  the  dipole 
moment  m  of  the  particular  shape  of  element  when  immersed  in  a  uniform 
field  E. 

Calculation  of  Dielectric  Constants  or  Artificial  Dielectrics^ 

(1)  Conducting  Sphere 

Consider  a  perfectly  conducting  sphere  immersed  in  an  originally  uniform 
field  of  potent  "al 

V  =  -Ey  =  -Er  cose.  (11) 

The  free  charges  on  the  sphere  are  displaced  by  the  applied  field  and  it 
thereby  becomes  a  dipole  whose  moment  m  we  wish  to  determine.  The 
external  potential  field  is  the  sum  of  the  applied  potential  and  the  dipole 
potential,  and  from  (7)  and  (11)  we  have 

Vout  =  -Er  cose  + -.  (12) 

47reo  r^ 

The  internal  field  is  zero  because  the  sphere  is  conducting.  At  a  boundary 
between  two  dielectrics,  there  is  the  requirement^ 

'outside   ^^     1^ inside*  vl'^y 

Equation  (13)  gives,  at  r  =  a  (the  radius  of  the  sphere), 

„  ^    ,   mcose       ^  ,.  .V 

-Ea  cos  e  +  i-r-T  =  0,  (14) 

47r0o  a 

or 

m  =  4T€oEa\  (15) 

the  dipole  moment  of  the  sphere.  From  (8)  we  see  that  the  polarizability  of 
the  conducting  sphere  is  accordingly  4^eoa^,  from  which  equation  (3)  follows. 

(2)  Magnetic  Effects  of  a  conducting  sphere  array 

The  above  calculations  on  a  conducting  sphere  assume  an  electrostatic 
field.  At  microwaves,  the  rapidly  varying  fields  induce  eddy  currents  on 
the  surface  of  the  sphere  which  prevent  the  magnetic  lines  of  force  from 
penetrating  the  sphere.    The  magnetic  lines  are  perturbed  as  shown  in 

•  The  author  is  indebted  to  Dr.  S.  A.  Schelkunoff  for  the  polarizability  formulas  given 
in  this  memorandum. 

»  Smythe,  "Static  and  Dynamic  EUctricity\  McGraw-Hill,  1939,  p.  19. 


METALLIC  DELA  V  LENSES  70 

Fig.  5.  Now  a  conducting  sphere  in  an  alternating  magnetic  field  is  equi- 
valent to  an  oscillating  magnetic  dipole,^  and  we  should  observe  an  effective 
permeabihty  for  a  sphere  array. ^  The  magnetic  dipole  field  is,  however, 
opposed  to  the  inducing  field,  in  other  words,  the  dipole  moment  is  negative. 
Smythe^  shows  that  the  magnetic  polarizability  of  a  conducting  sphere  of 
radius  a  in  a  high  frequency  field  is 

a,n  =  —  27r/xoa^  (16) 

The  effective  relative  permeability  of  an  array  of  TV  spheres  per  unit 
volume  is  therefore 

M,  =  1  -  iTcam.  (17) 

The  index  of  refraction  was  given  in  equation  (4)  as  the  square  root  of  the 
dielectric  constant.  This  is  strictly  true  only  when  the  permeability  of  the 
die'ectric  is  unity.  We  have  seen  above,  however,  that  the  sphere  array  at 
microwaves  possesses  an  effective  permeabihty  given  by  (17),  and  there- 
fore (4)  is  not  valid.    The  correct  expression  for  n  is 

n  =  VTiiTr,  (18) 

and  the  effective  refractive  index  of  a  sphere  array  is  accordingly 

n  =  \/(l  -  2irNa^){l  -^  ^irNa^),  (19) 

which  is  smaller  than  that  given  by  (3)  and  (4).    The  disk  and  strip  arrays, 
besides  being  lighter,  avoid  the  diminishing  effect  on  the  refractive  index 
caused  by  the  perturbing  of  the  magnetic  Unes. 
(3)  Conducting  Circular  disk 

The  determination  of  the  dipole  moment  of  a  disk  involves  the  use  of 
elHpsoidal  coordinates  and  will  not  be  carried  through  here.  Smythe^  gives 
an  expression  for  the  torque  on  a  flat  disk  of  radius  a  in  a  uniform  field  in 
Gaussian  units.     In  M.K.S.  units,  his  formula  becomes 

,       2a  E"  sin  26       ,       2a^E'2  sin  0  cos  6 

T    =    47r€o  ;; =  4x60  ^ 

St  3t 

=  p_^°  (E sin  d)]\E  cos  e].  (20) 

The  first  bracket  represents  the  dipole  moment,  the  second  the  field,  and 
the  product  gives  the  torque.  When  the  plane  of  the  disks  is  parallel  to  E 
sin  d  is  one,  and  from  m  =  oE,  we  have 

16€oa^ 


a  = 


(21) 


8  T.  S.  E.  Thomas,  Wireless  World,  Dec.  1946,  p.  322. 

9  L.  Lewin,  Jour.  I.  E.  E.,  Part  III,  Jan.  1947,  p.  65. 
7  Loc.  Cit.  Eq.  14,  p.  397. 

Ubid,  eq.  7,  p.  163. 


80  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

SO  that,  from  (2), 

6.  =  1  +-V'-iV^'  (22) 

(4)  Strips 

The  calculation  of  the  dipole  moment  of  a  thin  conducting  strip  as  used 
in  the  strip  lens  of  Fig.  15  involves  two  dimensional  elliptic  coordinates  and 
will  also  be  omitted  here.  Again,  the  torque  is  given  in  Smythe^  for  an 
elliptic  dielectric  cyhnder,  from  which  we  obtain, 


a  =  ^,  (23) 


where  5  is  the  strip  width,  so  that 


TT     2 


.,  =  l+|/«,  (24) 

where  n  is  the  number  of  strips  per  sq.  unit  area  looking  erd  on  at  the  strips. 
(5)  Validity  of  the  polar izability  equations 

Equation  (2),  which  expresses  the  dielectric  constant  to  be  expected  from 
an  array  of  N  elements  each  having  a  polarizability  of  a,  was  derived  (by 
(8),  (9)  and  (10))  by  assuming  that  the  fie'd  acting  on  an  element,  and 
tending  to  polarize  it,  was  the  impressed  field  E  alone.  This  is  a  satisfactory 
assumption  when  the  separation  between  the  objects  is  so  large  that  the 
elements  themselves  do  not  distort  the  field  acting  on  the  neighboring 
elements.  Such  is  not  the  case  when  the  value  of  e^  exceeds  1.5  or  there- 
abouts. For  the  usually  desired  values  of  €;.  of  2  or  3  it  is  thus  seen  that  the 
above  formulas  such  as  equations  (22)  and  (24)  will  yield  only  qualitative 
results  and  that  the  exact  spacings  of  the  elements  to  produce  a  desired 
refractive  index  will  have  to  be  determined  by  experimental  methods. 

For  lattices  having  3-dimensional  symmetry,  an  improvement  over 
equation  (2),  which  takes  into  account  not  only  the  impressed  field  E  but 
also  the  field  due  to  the  surrounding  elements,  is  the  so-called  Clausius- 
Mosotti  equation: 

i^t^  =  ^  .  (25) 

€   -f   26,)  3€o 

This,  along  with  a  similar  expression  for  the  permeability  [replacing  (17)], 
would  permit  a  fairly  accurate  determination  from  (18)  of  w  for  the  conduct- 
ing sphere  array. 

'  Ibid,  cq.  6,  p.  97. 


METALLIC  DELAY  LENSES  81 

Resonance  Effects 

It  was  stated  earlier  that  the  size  of  the  elements  should  be  small  relative 
to  a  half  wavelength  in  order  for  the  refractive  index  to  be  independent  of 
frequency.  A  qualitative  idea  of  this  criterion  can  be  obtained  by  an 
elementary  analysis  of  forced  oscillations  of  dipoles.  It  is  known  that  a 
dielectric  medium  which  is  composed  of  elements  that  resonate  under  the 
action  of  an  alternating  electric  field,  such  as  atoms  having  bound  electrons, 
will  exhibit  a  dielectric  constant  which  varies  with  frequency  :'*^ 

e.  =  1  +  1 T2,  (26) 

Jo   —  J 

where /o  is  the  frequency  of  resonance  of  the  element,/  the  frequency  of  the 
incident  radiation  and  k  a  proportionality  constant.  Thus  when/  is  small 
relative  to/o,  er  is  practically  independent  of/. 

As  a  means  of  estimating  the  change  in  refractive  index  with  frequency  of 
metal  delay  lenses,  we  consider  a  specific  example :  Let  n  =  1 .50  when  the 
elements  are  X/4  in  length,  i.e.  when  /-  =  J/o,  then  the  last  term  of  (26) 
equals  1.25.  Decreasing /  by  20%  reduces  n  from  1.50  to  1.46.  Thus  the 
change  in  n  from  midband  to  the  edges  of  a  =b  10%  band  is  about  .02. 
From  this,  at  7  cm,  the  phase  front,  even  for  a  lens  30''  thick,  should  remain 
plane  to  within  ±1^  wavelength  over  this  20%  band  of  wavelengths.  If 
the  members  had  been  made  |  wavelength  long,  the  variation  in  n  from  the 
design  frequency  all  the  way  down  to  D.C.  would  have  amounted  to  only 

1.2%. 

Summary 

A  metallic  dielectric  is  constructed  by  arraying  conducting  elements  in  a 
three-dimensional  lattice  structure.  For  electromagnetic  waves  whose 
wavelength  is  long  compared  to  the  size  and  spacing  of  the  elements,  this 
structure  displays  an  effective  dielectric  constant  and  index  of  refraction 
which  is  sensibly  constant  over  wide  frequency  bands.  Lenses  can  be 
designed  according  to  these  principles  which  will  focus  microwaves  and 
longer  radio  waves  as  a  glass  lens  focusses  light  waves.  Such  lenses  have 
the  advantage  of  broad-band  performance  over  the  earlier  waveguide  type 
metal  lenses  and  they  retain  the  advantages  of  light  weight  over  dielectric 
lenses.  As  microwave  antennas,  they  are  superior  to  parabolic  dish  reflec- 
tors from  the  standpoint  of  warping  and  twisting  tolerance,  profile  tolerance, 
directional  properties  and  impedance  match.  By  eliminating  the  steps  in 
the  lens,  the  directive  patterns  are  made  cleaner  and  an  increase  in  absolute 

"  See  for  example,  Joos,  Theoretical  Physics,  Blackie  &  Son,  Book  4.  Chapte-  4. 


^  BUL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOVkNAL 

gain  results.  Because  of  the  broad-band  properties  of  the  artificial  dielectric, 
this  improved  gain  can  be  maintained  over  a  very  wide  band  of  frequencies. 
The  lenses  can  be  built  to  focus  waves  of  any  polarization  and,  if  desired, 
the  dielectric  can  be  designed  to  exhibit  strong  dispersion.  Theoretical 
calculations  of  the  expected  dielectric  constant  are  in  fairly  good  agreement 
with  experiment  for  values  less  than  1.5;  for  higher  values  an  accurate 
determination  of  the  true  value  must  be  obtained  experimentally. 

Acknowledgement 

The  author  wishes  to  express  his  appreciation  to  Dr.  S.  A.  Schelkunoff  for 
his  advice  and  consultation,  and  to  the  members  of  the  Holmdel  Radio 
Research  Laboratory,  especially  to  Mr.  William  Legg,  for  assistance  and 
cooperation  during  the  course  of  this  work. 


A  Non-reflecting  Branching  Filter  for  Microwaves 

By  W.  D.  LEWIS  and  L.  C.  TILLOTSON 

Microwave  branching  filters  are  required  as  integral  parts  of  multi-channel 
microwave  radio  relay  systems.  These  filters  must  have  characteristics  which 
are  difficult  to  attain  if  one  attempts  to  extend  familiar  lower  frequency  tech- 
niques to  the  microwave  region.  A  novel  network  configuration,  through  which 
currently  anticipated  requirements  can  be  met  without  excessive  difficulty,  is 
described  in  this  paper. 

In  this  configuration  individual  constant  resistance  channel  dropping  units  are 
formed  of  appropriate  assembhes  of  two  hybrid  circuits,  two  band  reflection 
filters  and  two  quarter  wavelengths  of  line.  An  assembly  of  N  channel  dropping 
units  in  cascade  then  forms  an  N  channel  constant  resistance  branching  network. 

The  mechanical  and  electrical  characteristics  of  a  practical  five  channel  branch- 
ing filter  of  this  type  are  described.  As  a  result  of  experience  with  this  prototype 
filter  it  can  be  stated  with  some  safety  that  these  requirements  can  be  fulfilled  with 
a  network  of  this  type.  Experimentally  observed  impedance,  insertion  loss  and 
phase  characteristics  were  fully  satisfactory.  In  addition  the  circuit  appears  to 
be  flexible  enough  both  electrically  and  mechanically  to  fulfill  the  various  types 
of  systems  needs  which  may  be  encountered  at  branch  points  or  when  channels 
must  be  added  or  interchanged. 

Introduction 

"Present  plans  for  point-to-point  communication  by  means  of  micro- 
-^  wave  radio  relay  systems  call  for  the  operation  of  several  radio  channels 
between  each  pair  of  repeaters.  A  proposed  frequency  plan  for  the  4030  mc 
common  carrier  band  (3700  to  4200  mc)  specifies  channels  20  mc  wide  spaced 
40  mc  center  to  center.  A  possible  arrangment  for  a  five-channel  radio 
repeater  station  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  1.  This  arrangement  is  calculated  to 
utilize  the  available  frequency  space  in  an  eflftcient  and  technically  sound 
manner. 

If  this  channel  disposition  is  to  be  achieved  without  a  costly  increase  in  the 
number  of  antennas  and  the  size  of  the  supporting  towers,  radio  frequency 
branching  networks  must  be  provided  which  connect  the  individual  trans- 
mitting or  receiving  circuits  at  each  repeater  point  to  a  common  antenna 
(Fig.  1).  If  this  connection  is  to  be  made  without  excessive  loss  of  power 
these  branching  devices  must  have  adequate  adjacent  channel  rejection,  low 
ohmic  loss,  and  good  impedance  match  in  the  channel  bands.  An  excellent 
impedance  match  is  especially  desirable  if  circuit  disturbances  resulting  from 
echoes  in  the  long  waveguide  Hnes  which  lead  from  the  filter  assemblies  to 
the  antennas  are  to  be  minimized  (Fig.  1). 

Since  the  type  of  microwave  radio  repeater  now  planned^  obtains  most  of 
its  gain  at  intermediate  frequencies,  the  IF  amplifiers  will  reject  all  spurious 

1  See  H.  T.  Friis,  "Microwave  Repeater  Research",  to  appear  in  the  April  1948  issue 
of  B.  S.  T.  J. 

83 


S4 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


signals  entering  the  receiver  except  those  in  the  vicinity  of  the  receiver  image 
bands.  Because  of  this,  suppression  requirements  on  the  branching  filters, 
except  possibly  in  the  vicinity  of  receiver  image  bands,  are  not  severe. 

Problems  connected  with  the  design  of  suitable  microwave  branching 
filters  naturally  differ  considerably  from  previous  filter  problems.  The  dis- 
crimination and  band  utilization  requirements  are  readily  met,  but  the 


ANTENNAS 


1 

1 

1 

■*- 

LONG 

-WAVEGUIDE 

LINES 

1 

-< 

-            RADIO-          ; 

< 

\ 

1 

4190     :;      FREQUENCY 
"^         FILTERS  ^ 

\ 

~~'^*^ 

J.      ^       . 

4150    1 
4110     1 

4070   1     bands: 

}  GUARD 

4030  1}  ACTIVE 

3990  1 

3950   1 

< 
< 

^   ^ 

) 

) 
J 

'  c 

' 

^>^ 

< 

1>Q 

c 

P<^ 

20jMC        i 
3870    |— ^         80 MC 

1) 

"^ 

\       y 

40'mC        1 
3830  H       i,             ♦ 

REPEATER   GAIN 

DISCRIMIN 

MC     H                           1     ^ 

FREQUENCY 
PLAN 

FILTERS    MUST: 

JAT 

ON 

F 

EQ 

JIREK/ 

ENTS: 

SEPARATE  OR  COMBINE    CHANNELS 
WITH    MINIMUM    POWER    LOSS. 

PROVIDE    EXCELLENT   IMPEDANCE 
MATCH   TO  ANTENNA  LINES 


LESS    IMPORTANT   AT   PRESENT 
BECAUSE    OF: 

ANTENNA    DIRECTIVITY, 

l.F.  DISCRIMINATION 


Fig.  1— Possible  five-channel  radio  repeater  station  schematic  diagram. 

impedance  control  required  is  not  easy  to  obtain  by  familiar  filter  techniques. 
Not  more  than  about  5%  variation  in  impedance  or  about  0.5  db  standing 
wave  ratio  in  the  channels  could  be  tolerated.  At  lower  frequencies  channel 
passing  networks  which  can  be  connected  in  series  or  parallel  to  form  a 
channel  branching  filter  can  be  designed  on  the  basis  of  lumped  circuit  theory 
and  built  of  coils,  condensers  and  resistances,  but  in  the  microwave  region 


NON-REFLECTING  BRANCHING  FILTER  S5 

simple  parallel  ox  series  connections  and  simple  lumped  circuit  elements  do 
not  exist.  Although  in  the  interests  of  flexibility  it  would  be  desirable  to 
add  or  substitute  individual  channels  without  affecting  other  channels  in  a 
branching  filter,  the  convenient  possibility  of  doing  so  at  a  high  impedance 
level  on  vacuum  tube  grids  is  not  yet  available  in  the  microwave  region. 

A  satisfactory  two-channel  waveguide  branching  filter  has  been  constructed 
following  partially  'classical'  methods.  This  filter,  designed  for  the  New 
York-Boston  experimental  radio  relay  system,  is  composed  of  two  channel- 
passing  cavity  filters  each  connected  to  a  common  input  line  through  one  arm 
of  an  E  plane  Y  junction,  the  waveguide  analogue  of  a  series  connection 
(Fig.  2).  This  solution,  although  relatively  simple  where  only  two  channels 
are  required,  becomes  quite  complex  when  more  than  two  are  involved,  since 
in  every  channel  the  sum  of  the  interactions  of  all  the  inactive  filters  on 


Fig.  2 — Branching  filter  for  New  York-Boston  experimental  radio  relay  system. 

transmission  through  the  active  filter  must  be  zero.  It  is  evidently  not  easy 
to  satisfy  this  condition,  particularly  since  in  doing  so  one  must  take  accurate 
account  of  the  change  with  frequency  of  the  effective  phase  shift  of  all  wave- 
guide connecting  Hnes.  And  even  if  such  a  solution  were  found  it  would  be 
valid  for  only  one  set  of  channels,  so  that  the  problem  must  be  solved  all  over 
again  for  every  change  in  channel  arrangement. 

As  a  result  of  these  difficulties  and  after  a  few  attempts  to  overcome  them, 
it  became  apparent  that  a  more  flexible  method  of  microwave  filter  con- 
struction should  be  found.  Constant  resistance  filters,  which  provide  dis- 
crimination by  absorbing  or  diverting  the  unwanted  incident  waves  rather 
than  by  reflecting  them,  can  be  useful  in  any  frequency  range.  In  the 
microwave  region,  where  the  shortest  connecting  pip)e  may  be  many  wave- 
lengths long,  constant  resistance  devices  are  particularly  helpful.  Accord- 
ingly a  constant  resistance  channel-dropping  network  was  devised   which 


86 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


could  extract  one  channel  from  the  line,  while  permitting  others  to  pass 
through  it  without  disturbance.  Several  of  these  networks  were  then  placed 
in  cascade  to  make  up  the  required  filter. 

The  Hybrid  Channel-Dropping  Unit 

After  several  possibilities  were  considered  the  constant  resistance  channel- 
dropping  circuit  illustrated  schematically  in  Fig.  3  was  selected.^  This 
circuit  is  made  up  of  two  hybrid  junctions,  two  identical  channel  reflection 
filters  tuned  to  the  dropped  channel,  and  two  quarter  wavelength  sections  of 
line. 

In  order  to  understand  the  operation  of  this  circuit,  the  properties  of  a 
hybrid  circuit,  Fig.  4(a),  must  first  be  understood.     This  circuit,  which  has 


INPUT 


DROPPED    CHANNEL 


OTHER 
CHANNELS 


^     (90°  PHASE   SHIFT) 
4 

T 


advantages: 

ISOLATION    OF    DESIGN 

PROBLEMS. 
CIRCUIT   FLEXIBILITY 


Fig.  3 — Possible  constant  impedance  channel  dropping  filter. 


been  embodied  at  voice  frequencies  as  the  hybrid  coil  and  at  microwaves  as 
the  hybrid  junction  (E-H  plane  T  junction)^  can  be  represented  schematically 
as  in  Fig.  4(b).  Let  us  connect  four  transmission  lines.  A,  B,  C,  D,  each 
terminated  in  its  characteristic  impedance  to  the  four  pairs  of  terminals  of 
the  hybrid  circuit.  Then  if  each  of  these  lines  is  matched  to  the  pair  of  ter- 
minals to  which  it  is  connected,  the  following  characteristics  will  result. 
Power  in  transmission  line  C  flowing  towards  the  junction  will  divide  equally 
into  lines  A  and  B,  flow  away  from  the  junction  and  be  absorbed  in  loads  A 
and  B.    None  of  this  power  will  appear  in  line  D  or  be  reflected  back  into 

*  Lumped  element  networks  4vith  properties  similar  to  those  of  this  circuit  have  been 
devised  by  Vos  and  Laurent,  U.  S.  Patent  1,920,041,  and  Bobis,  U.  S.  Patent  2,044,047. 
A.  G.  Fox  of  these  laboratories  has  independently  devised  similar  microwave  circuits. 

» W.A.Tyrrell,  Hybrid  Circuits  for  Microwaves,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  Vol.  35,  pp.  1294- 
1306,  November  1947. 


NON-REFLECTING  BRANCBING  FILTER 


^ 


line  C.  Similarly,  power  in  line  D  flowing  towards  the  junction,  will  appear 
equally  in  A  and  B  but  not  in  C  or  back  in  D.  If  these  characteristics  hold, 
then  by  the  principle  of  reciprocity  similar  characteristics  must  hold  for  lines 
A  and  B.  If  proper  planes  of  reference  are  chosen  this  behavior  can  be 
described  in  a  slightly  different,  but  equivalent,  manner.  If  waves  in  both 
A  and  B  flow  towards  the  junction  the  vector  sum  of  the  voltages  of  these 
times  a  constant  (0.707)  appears  in  C  and  the  vector  difiference  times  the 
same  constant  appears  in  D,  but  nothing  is  reflected  back  into  A  or  B.  An 
equivalent  statement  can  be  made  if  the  waves  start  in  C  and  D. 

With  the  properties  of  the  hybrid  in  mind,  and  if  it  is  assumed  that  the 
hybrids,  the  identical  reflection  filters  and  the  quarter  wave  lines  are  perfect 
and  free  of  ohmic  loss,  the  operation  of  the  circuit  of  Fig.  3  is  easy  to  under- 
stand, and  is  as  follows:  A  wave  entering  from  arm  C  of  the  input  hybrid  is 
divided  equally  into  the  two  arms  A  and  B.    None  of  the  power  in  this  wave 


r(5HVW| 


A 


^> 


B 


^ 


(a)    CLASSICAL    HYBRID   COIL 


HYBRID 
JUNCTION 


>D  VNA     TERMINATING 

^  IMPEDANCE 

(b)    HYBRID    WAVEGUIDE   JUNCTION 
SCHEMATIC     DIAGRAM 


Fig.  4 — a.  Classical  hybrid  coil, 
b.  Hybrid  junction  schematic  diagram. 


is  reflected  back  into  the  arm  C  or  appears  initially  in  arm  D.  The  two  equal 
components  of  the  wave  now  travel  along  the  lines  which  are  connected  to  the 
arms  A  and  B  of  the  input  hybrid.  If  the  frequency  lies  outside  the  band  of 
the  reflection  filters  the  waves  travel  through  these  filters  and  appear  in  phase 
in  the  arms  A  and  B  of  the  output  hybrid.  The  vector  sum  of  these  two 
waves  appears  in  the  arm  C  of  the  output  hybrid  and  has  an  amplitude  equal 
to  that  of  the  original  input  wave.  Consequently  all  energy  in  the  input  line 
incident  on  this  network,  except  that  lying  in  the  band  of  the  reflection  filters, 
will  pass  through  it  to  the  output  fine. 

If  now  the  frequency  of  the  input  wave  lies  within  the  band  of  the  reflection 
filters,  the  two  equal  components  of  the  wave  traveling  away  from  the  input 
hybrid  will  be  reflected  at  the  filters  and  will  travel  back  towards  the  input 
hybrid.  One  of  these  components  must,  however,  travel  twice  through  an 
extra  quarter  wavelength  of  line,  and  will  therefore  be  reversed  in  phase;  with 


88  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

respect  to  the  other  component  when  it  reappears  at  the  input  hybrid.  The 
two  components  will  consequently  combine  in  the  fourth  or  difference  arm  of 
the  input  hybrid  to  form  a  wave  equal  to  the  original  input  wave. 

The  circuit  of  Fig.  3  is  only  one  of  a  general  class  of  hybrid  filter  circuits. 
From  one  viewpoint  these  circuits  resemble  spectroscopes,  and,  from  another, 
ordinary  lumped  circuits.  We  could,  for  example,  replace  the  band  reflection 
circuits  of  Fig.  3  with  any  two  identical  four-terminal  networks.  This  circuit 
would  still  retain  its  constant  resistance  character.  One  of  its  branches 
would  contain  all  energy  reflected  by  the  four  terminal  networks;  the  other 
would  contain  all  energy  passed  by  them. 

In  particular  if  the  two  identical  filters  are  of  the  channel  passing  type, 
input  waves  within  this  channel  will  be  transmitted  by  both  filters  and  will 
combine  at  the  output  hybrid  and  appear  in  arm  C.  All  of  the  other  channels 
will  be  reflected  by  the  filters  and  thus  will  appear  in  arm  D  of  the  input 
hybrid,  provided  that  the  assumed  90°  phase  shift  holds  over  a  band  which 
includes  all  of  the  channels. 

The  particular  configuration  of  Fig.  3  was  chosen  to  minimize  the  effect  of 
practical  limitations.  The  dropped  channel  width  (20  mc)  is  only  a  small 
fraction  of  its  midband  frequency  (about  4000  mc) .  Consequently  when  band 
reflection  filters  are  used  in  Fig.  3,  the  change  with  frequency  of  the  nominally 
quarter  wave  sections  of  guide  does  not  seriously  affect  the  performance  of  the 
filter  and  the  impedance  match  of  arm  D  of  the  hybrids  needs  to  be  good  only 
in  the  vicinity  of  the  dropped  channel. 

The  circuit  shown  in  Fig.  3  is  a  constant  resistance  network  which  drops 
the  channel  corresponding  to  the  reflection  filter.  Several  in  sequence  as 
indicated  in  Fig.  5  constitute  a  constant  resistance  channel  branching  filter. 
In  the  sections  to  follow  we  will  give  an  account  of  the  physical  configuration 
and  electrical  performance  of  a  branching  network  designed  according  to  this 
pattern  to  meet  the  radio  frequency  requirements  of  a  typical  practical  radio 
relay  system  containing  five  20  mc  radio  frequency  channels,  spaced  80  mc 
center  to  center. 

TiiE  Waveguide  Hybrid 

In  choosing  a  hybrid  configuration  which  could  be  successfully  used  in  the 
network  of  Fig.  5, both  electrical  and  mechanical  requirements  were  considered. 
Since  frequency /„  passes  through  2n  — 1  hybrids  it  is  evident  that  if  accept- 
able overall  performance  is  to  be  obtained,  the  balance  and  impedance  char- 
acteristics of  each  hybrid  must  be  excellent.  A  broad-band  balance  can  be 
obtained  with  relative  ease  by  attaching  the  'driven'  arms  (A  and  B  on 
Fig.  5)  symmetrically.  Fortunately  the  strict  impedance  requirement  applies 
to  only  one  of  the  two  'driving'  arms  (C  and  D),  the  other  being  required  to 
transmit  only  a  single  channel. 


NON-KEFLECriNG  BRANCHING  FILTER 


89 


Because  of  the  reentrant  nature  of  the  circuit  of  f'ig.  5  it  is  evidently  desir- 
able, if  not  essential,  to  employ  a  hybrid  with  a  convenient  mechanical  layout. 
If,  for  example,  a  familiar  E-H  plane  junction  type  of  hybrid  were  used  in 
combination  with  waveguide  filters  built  in  a  straight  piece  of  waveguide, 
twenty-four  E  or  H  plane  right  angle  waveguide  bends  would  be  required  in 
the  construction  of  each  six-channel  branching  network.  To  avoid  this  extra 
complication  and  expense  a  hybrid  configuration  with  'driven'  output  arms 
parallel  to  the  well  matched  'driving'  input  arm  was  sought. 

The  hybrid  configuration  settled  upon  was  the  one  shown  in  Fig.  6.  Here 
the  electrical  and  geometrical  requirements  discussed  above  are  met  simul- 
taneously by  connecting  the  driving  arm  C  to  the  symmetrically  located 
driven  arms  A  and  B  through  a  smoothly  tapered  E  plane  Y  junction.  The 
taper  is  approximately  one  half  wavelength  long  in  the  center  of  the  3700-4200 


INPUT      /---nD 


r    ^1    -+ 


+> 


-^>-^ 


■K 


vw 


f^l  OUTPUT 


■«> 


Q 


HYBRID    JUNCTION 

REFLECTION    FILTER 
FOR   FREQUENCY  f 


VvV         DUMMY    LOAD 


_|_     QUARTER -WAVE 
"^   WAVEGUIDE    LINE 


Fig.  5 — N  Channel  branching  filter. 


mc  band.  The  driving  arm  D  is  connected  to  arms  A  and  B  through  a  coaxial 
line.  This  line  is  coupled  to  waveguide  D  by  means  of  a  conventional  probe. 
The  center  conductor  traverses  the  Y  junction  space  in  such  a  way  that  it  is 
normal  to  the  electric  vectors  of  guides  A,  B,  and  C,  and  is  effectively  coupled 
to  A  and  B  but  not  to  C  by  means  of  a  probe  P  fastened  through  it  normally 
(Fig.  6). 

The  Band  Reflection  Filters 

The  ideal  reflection  filter  for  the  circuit  of  Figs.  3  and  5  would  reflect  per- 
fectly within  a  certain  band  and  pass  perfectly  outside  of  this  band.  However, 
the  ratio  of  bandwidth  to  band  spacing  in  a  given  branching  filter  (20  mc  to 
80  mc)  is  such  that  a  sufficiently  good  approximation  to  this  ideal  can  be 
obtained  in  theory  if  each  reflection  filter  employs  only  three  resonances, 
Fig.  7(a).     These  could  be  effectively  series  resonant  circuits  placed  at  quarter 


90 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


wave  intervals  along  the  guide,  properly  distributed  in  impedance  level  and 
all  tuned  close  to  the  center  frequency  of  the  channel  to  be  extracted,  Fig  7(b). 
The  practical  question  was  to  find  how  to  obtain  these  resonances  in  an  easily 
constructed  and  adequately  adjustable  form. 

Early  experiments  indicated  that  a  probe  inserted  in  the  broad  side  of  the 
guide  far  enough  so  that  its  end  formed  an  appreciable  capacitance  with  the 
opposite  side  could  be  made  to  resonate  in  a  series  resonant  fashion.  Imped- 
ance levels  available  through  this  means  of  coupling  were,  however,  far  lower 
than  required.    Accordingly  an  alternate  method  in  which  the  probe  is 


Fig.  6 — Hybrid  junction. 

inserted  in  the  narrow  side  of  the  guide  was  selected  (Fig.  8).  The  probe  is 
made  long  enough  to  approach  the  opposite  narrow  wall  of  the  guide  and  is 
tipped  by  a  capacitative  disk.  The  capacity  of  the  disk  and  consequently  the 
resonant  frequency  of  the  circuit  is  adjusted  by  means  of  a  screw  in  the  wall 
just  opposite  the  disk.  Since  this  rod  is  inserted  perpendicular  to  the  narrow 
guide  wall  it  is  normally  uncoupled  to  the  principal  mode  in  the  guide.  An 
adjustable  coupling  is  achieved  by  inserting  a  screw  in  the  broad  side  of  the 
guide  just  above  the  probe.  Insertion  of  this  screw  disturbs  the  symmetry  of 
the  field  and  couples  the  rod  to  the  guide.  Increasing  the  screw  insertion 
increases  the  coupling  and  consequently  varies  the  impedance  level  of  the 


NON-REFLECTING  BRANCHING  FILTER 


91 


equivalent  series  resonant  circuit  continuously  from  infinity  down  to  any  value 
within  the  range  required. 

It  should  be  pointed  out  that  impedance  and  frequency  adjustments  are  not 
in  practice  completely  independent,  but  do  at  least  permit  the  realization  of 
any  required  value.  Furthermore,  mutual  coupling  between  the  probes  inter- 
feres with  the  exact  realization  of  the  circuits  of  Fig.  7.  This  coupling  does 
not  interfere,  however,  with  the  realization  of  satisfactory  filter  character- 
istics. 


(a)   LUMPED    CIRCUIT  EQUIVALENT 


T 


i 


(b)    LUMPED    CIRCUIT    PLUS 
TRANSMISSION-LINE    EQUIVALENT 


Fig.  7 — Band  reflection  filter. 


IMPEDANCE  LEVEL 
ADJUSTED  BY  TOP  SCREWS 


"-FREQUENCY  ADJUSTED 
BY  SIDE    SCREWS 


Fig.  8 — Waveguide  band  reflection  filter. 

When  the  reflection  filter  of  Fig.  7  was  embodied  in  waveguide  form  through 
use  of  the  series  resonant  circuits  just  described,  the  configuration  illustrated 
in  Fig.  8  resulted.  It  was  found  that,  with  the  exception  of  a  slight  change  in 
disk  to  guide  wall  spacing,  a  single  configuration  could  be  tuned  to  any  of  the 
desired  channels. 


Electrical  Performance 

Individual  components  as  described  above  were  constructed,  adjusted  and 
assembled  to  form  a  five-channel  branching  network  (Fig.  9).  The  electrical 
performance  of  this  network  was  trimmed  systematically,  then  was  measured 


92 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


NON-REFLECTING  BRANCHING  FILTER 


93 


WAVEGUIDE-. 


^-WAVEGUIDE    CHANNEL    FILTERS 


3870  MC 


3950  MC 


4110  MC 


4190MC   VW 


-  TERMINATIONS  -'' 


-  BAND 

4190  MC 

^ 

~-Tl 

o 

-^ 

>— ' 

1         1 

>— ^ 

^^ 

r-^ 

'--1 

H^ 

1                                                                                                              ; 

c 

^ 

4110MC 

^c^ 

o 

-^ 

^ 

'M 

^ 

^ 

r^ 

-^' 

] 

\, 

1 
1 

\ 

n 

4030  MC 

I 

rt-- 

^ 

F 

c 

f 

1 
1 
1 

'~~" 

^ 

o— . 

^ 

3950  MC 

' 

"^ 

-<^ 

^ 

3870  MC 

( 

r 

V — 

L 

f- 

— 

--} 

1 

r 

9 — !— o 

• 

-20   -18     -16    -14    -12    -10     -8      -6     -4      -2        0        2        4         6        8       10       12       14       16       18      20 
FREQUENCY    IN     MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND     (FROM    MID-BAND) 

Fig.  10— Input  standing  wave  ratio  of  hybrid  branching  filter. 

point  by  point  with  a  double  detection  measuring  set.     With  all  outputs  ter- 
minated the  standing  wave  ratio  observed  at  the  input  line  was  under  0.6  db  in 


94 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


all  channels.  Th  is  quantity  is  plotted  in  Fig.  10.  The  insertion  loss  measured 
between  the  input  line  and  the  various  output  lines  varied  from  about  0.5  db 
in  the  lowest  frequency  channel  closest  to  the  input  to  about  1.0  db  in  the 
highest  frequency  channel  farthest  from  the  input.  This  loss  is  plotted  in 
Fig.  11.     Since  0.5  db  was  approximately  the  loss  observed  in  each  individual 


WAVEGUIDE -X 


WAVEGUIDE    CHANNEL    FILTERS 


3870  MC 


-TO 
RECEIVER 


3950  MC 


4030  MC 


10  MC    4190  MC    WV 


--TERMINATIONS--' 


-28     -24    -20     -16     -12      -8       -4         0         4         8         12         16       20       24 
FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND     fFROM    MID- BAND) 

Fig.  11 — Transmission  loss  of  hybrid  branching  filter. 


channel  dropping  unit,  it  appears  logical  to  assume  that  the  progressive 
increase  in  loss  is  due  to  passage  of  the  higher  frequencies  through  the  lower 
frequency  circuit  components. 

The  measured  discrimination  against  other  channels  and  image  responses 
was  20  db  or  more.  This  modest  amount  of  selectivity  is  sufficient  since  the 
primary  function  of  the  present  filter  is  branching,  and  hence  the  amount  of 


NON-REFLECTING  BRANCHING  FILTER  95 

discrimination  needed  is  only  that  required  to  prevent  a  significant  energy  loss 
in  the  channel  bands.  If  crosstalk  considerations  indicate  that  more  r-f  dis- 
crimination is  required,  this  can  be  obtained  by  placing  auxiliary  filters  in  the 
branch  arms.  This  can  be  done  without  complication  since  the  branching 
filter  is  a  constant  resistance  device. 

The  delay  distortion  was  examined  but  was  found  to  be  less  than  the  errors 
of  measurement,  i.e.  2  millimicroseconds. 

Acknowledgements 

The  authors,  in  carrying  out  the  work  described  in  this  paper,  have  been 
helped  by  discussions  with  many  people.  Particular  credit  is  due  to  J.  R. 
Pierce  for  a  variety  of  stimulating  suggestions,  and  to  their  colleagues  at  the 
Holmdel  Radio  Laboratory  for  much  fundamental  work  on  microwave  trans- 
mission. 


A  Note  on  a  Parallel-Tuned  Transformer  Design 

By  V.  C.  RIDEOUT 

An  analysis  of  the  parallel-tuned  transformer  used  in  radio-frequency  ampli- 
fiers has  been  made  for  a  slightly  over-coupled  case.  The  resulting  design 
formulas  are  simple  and  practical. 

Two  cases  are  discussed:  (a)  the  so-called  matched  transformer,  with  resist- 
ance loading  on  each  side;  (b)  a  transformer  with  loading  on  one  side  only, 
which  has  the  same  pass-band  and  phase  characteristics  as  the  matched  trans- 
former, but  gives  3  db  more  gain  when  used  as  an  interstage. 

A  special  arrangement  of  (a)  where  the  matched  transformer  design  is  used 
with  one  resistor  removed,  giving  a  transformer  with  a  considerably  double- 
humped  pass-band  characteristic  and  about  6  db  more  gain,  is  also  discusseH 

Introduction 

THE  parallel-tuned  transformer  has  been  used  in  radio-frequency 
amplifiers  for  many  years.^  In  an  excellent  paper,^  Christopher  based 
design  formulas  on  the  principles  of  the  broad  band  filter.  In  other  publica- 
tions, simple  circuit  analyses  have  been  used  and  design  formulas  have  been 
based  on  the  assumption  of  a  small  ratio  of  bandwidth  to  mid-frequency 
which  often  fails  to  be  adequate  when  the  wide  bands  required  for  modern 
television  and  multiplexing  services  are  encountered. 

A  transitionally  flat  transformer  design  may  be  obtained  by  setting  the 
first  three  derivatives  of  the  absolute  value  of  the  transfer  impedance,  with 
respect  to  frequency,  equal  to  zero.  The  resulting  design  formulas  are 
somewhat  unwieldy. 

The  transformer  design  to  be  described  here  is  based  upon  two  simple 
circuit  conditions^  applied  to  the  fundamental  case  of  a  parallel- tuned 
transformer  with  resistance  loading  on  each  side : 

I.  Both  sides  of  the  transformer  are  tuned  to  the  same  frequency. 

II.  The  transmission  loss  is  zero  at  the  tune  frequency.  (This  condition 
is  responsible  for  the  term  ' 'matched  transformer"  used  to  describe  this 
case). 

The  resulting  transformer  has  a  slightly  double-hurnped  characteristic 
with  less  than  0.005  db  dip  for  a  coupling  coefficient  of  0.5.  Because  of  the 
slight  overcoupling  this  transformer  design  gives  a  little  more  gain  and 
bandwidth  than  the  critically  coupled  case.  Its  main  advantage  lies  in  the 
fact  that  simpler  design  formulas  can  be  used. 

»  H.  T.  Friis  and  A.  G.  Jensen,  High  Frequency  Amplifiers,  B.  S.  T.  /.,  Vol.  Ill,  April 
1924,  pp.  181-205. 

*  A.  J.  Christopher,  Transformer  Coupling  Circuits  for  High-Frequency  Amplifiers, 
B.  S.  T.  /.,  Vol.  XI,  Oct.  1932,  pp.  608-621. 

'  This  analysis  is  based  on  an  old  unpublished  report  by  H.  T.  Friis. 

96 


PARALLEL-TUNED  TRANSFORMER  DESIGN 


97 


Derivation  of  Design  Formulas 

(a)  Matched,  or  Symmetrically  Loaded  Transformer. 
In  the  circuit  of  Fig.  1: 

£i  =  I.{R.  +  1/jcoCO  +  h{-  lAcoCO 
0  =  /:(-  1/VcoCO  +  /sO'coL:  +  l/iojC)  +  h{-joiM) 
0  =  /2(-  icoM)  +  /30'a^i:2  +  l/ya;C2)  +  /4(-  l/iccCz) 

0    =    /3(-    l/yC0C2)    +   /4(i?2   +    l/icoCs) 

T 


=  K'VL,  Lg 
Fig.  1. — Parallel  tuned,  matched,  or  symmetrically  loaded  transformer. 


Eliminating  Ii,  h  and  I3  among  these  equations  gives: 

^i^^^  +  .^  [(m  -  ^^  )  iC.R.  +  C2i..)] 


£l//4    = 


(1) 


)        (2) 


-(m-  '^)]  -  i  .  ^l^^") 
V  ilf  /J        CO         M  / 

If  the  coefficient  of  mutual  coupling  is  k,  and  the  first  and  second  induct- 
ance and  capacitance  are  resonant  at  co  1  and  C02  radians  per  second,  respec- 
tively, we  can  substitute  in  (2)  the  expressions, 

M  =  WlJ:^  ,U=  \loy,C. ,  U  =  I/C02C2 ,  h  =  E2/R2  (3) 

This  gives  the  general  expression, 

E,/E2  =  ^'^^^^  /[^  .  _i_  +  ^2  .       1    "I 
k  \L'«'2     R2C2       wi     RiCij 

L   coiaj2     \R2C2        RiCi/ J 

I'^  +  a^  + LjLi!_.] 

[_COi  002  COiCli?!  aJ2C2-K2j 


+  i  1-^(1 

\CO1CO2 


^   )     +   W  I    —    +    —     + 


(4) 


COi  Ci  i?i  aj2  C2  -^2 

_    Wl£02\ 
CO      / 


98  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  application  of  circuit  condition  I,  (coi  =  co2  =  coo)  to  (4)  gives, 


EJE2  = 


RK^oVCiCiff      1 


V 


\COoCli?l  OJQC2R2/ 


(5) 


_  h\  (1  -  k^)  (1       +       1     ) 

-i[(-Y(i-*^)--(2  +  wf¥)  +  -l 

LV^O/  COoV  COoClC2i?lA2/  CO  J 

Circuit  condition  II  (zero  transmission  loss  at  co  =  coo)  is  satisfied  if 
I  Ex/Ei  1=  2  \/Ri/R2  .  Substituting  this  condition  in  (5)  and  solving  for 
k  gives: 

2    _  coo  Cl  C2  i?l  i?2    +    1    ±i(cOoCli?l    —    COoC2i?2)  /^x 

"     (cOoCli^l)'   +    (cOoC2i?2)2   +    MCiC2i?li?2)2   +    1 


Since  k  must  be  real, 

COqCiRi    =    COoC2i?2 

and  from  (6)  and  (7) 

COoCi?.   =   COoC2i?2   =    Vl    -    Wk 

From  (5)  and  (8)  the  transmission  formula  for  this  transformer  is, 


(7) 


(8) 


El  ^  Vl  -  k^ 
Er  k' 


ViLvrbO -©■<■-«) 


i  ((-)'  (1  -  *^)  -  ^  (2  +  k^)  +  ^»)1 

\\COo/  COo  CO  /J 


(9) 


El 


El 

E, 


El 
Ei 


e'  ,  where, 


L\"0/  0)0  w    J    J 


(10) 


^  _  arctan  ^^  "  *'  •  W'^o)^  -  *')  -  (V<^)'(2  +  ^')  +  I      ,^^. 


PARALLEL-TUNED  TRANSFORMER  DESIGN 


90 


The  transmission  loss,  £,  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  maximum  available 
power  from  the  generator  to  the  output  power  may  be  obtained  from  (10), 

(12) 


-{p['- ©"<■-'■']■ 
■  +^'[0"<'-«-^«+'''-^?] 


or  the  loss  m  decibels  equals  10  log  >^. 

The  transmission  delay,  8,  may  be  obtained  from  (11). 


d(f> 
doi 


_&)'"-«■-©'<'- 


k'f  +  4*'  - 1  + 


(:)' 


1^ 


(13) 


seconds. 


The  input  impedance  seen  from  the  generator  terminals  is. 


Zin    —    Rl 


Q. vr^. -,-[■.- fey a_..)] 


The  formulas  (12),  (13)  and  (14)  give  the  important  characteristics  of  this 
transformer.  Table  I  gives  expressions  for  these  characteristics  in  the 
general  case,  and  for  k  =  0.5,  for  several  picked  frequencies.  Of  these 
frequencies  ojo  and  coo/\/l  —  k^  are  the  frequences  of  zero  transmission  loss, 
coo/^v^l  —  k^  is  the  geometric  midband,  and  coo/\/l  +  k  and  coo/a/i  —  k 
are  the  cut-ofT  frequencies  of  an  infinite  filter  made  of  identical  transformers 
of  this  type. 

The  input  impedance,  transmission  loss,  and  the  transmission  delay  are 
plotted  against  co/a-o  for  a  matched  transformer  with  k  =  0.5  in  Fig.  2.  From 
these  curves,  and  from  Table  I  the  following  important  characteristics  of 
this  transformer  will  be  noted: 

(1)  The  pass-band  is  approximately  symmetrical  with  frequency,  rather 
than  with  the  logarithm  of  frequency,  as  in  circuits  which  have  a  low-pass 
analog. 


100 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


•*-» 

•'-^ 

^ 

1 

1 

-^ 

:^ 

3e 

1 

+ 

2e 

^ 

1 

y-\ 

-.    > 

> 

$ 

> 

> 

+ 

1 

-*« 

1 

1 

^  -*« 


3e 
1 

1-4 

Si 

:ii 

<N  1 

1 

> 

^ 

1 

> 

►«e 

3. 
1 

> 

+ 


I  " 

oo 

+ 


3. 

3. 

1 

> 

"*« 

1 

> 

^    '*^ 


-JSi 

><« 

-fti 

-ce 

1 

1 

+ 

+ 

vO 

»o 

vO 

»o 

a.  i 


"«e 

>«i 

1 

Tj* 

+ 

»o 

»o 

h 


■  \ 

> 


I 


+ 
> 


> 


PARALLEL-TUNED  TRANSFORMER  DESIGN 


101 


\ 

i 

/ 

\ 

- 

+ 
1  _                 1 

(M 

M                II 

\w 

/ 

\ 

1                       —     1 

II 

/ 

/ 

\ 

\ 

3\3              313"  3|3"  313"                     3|3" 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

1/ 

\ 

J 

/ 

\ 

K 

^ 

y 

^^ 

1^ 

>v 

V 

y 

i 

'^ 

-^ 

i\ 

\, 

y 

y 

\ 

\ 

l\ 

/ 

1  \ 

^ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

v 

/ 

vj 

.A 

0.4        0.5        0.6  0.7         0.8  0.9 


.0  1.1 


1.2  1.3  1.4  1.5 


Fig.  2.— Loss,  delay,  and  input  standing-wave  ratio  versus  relative  frequency  for  the 

matched  transformer  for  k  =  0.5.     Loss  and  delay  curves  also  apply  to  the 

case  of  the  mis-matched  transformer  for  k  =  0.632. 

(2)  The  delay  curve  is  also  quite  symmetrical.  Circuits  which  can  be 
derived  from  low-pass  forms  have  more  delay  on  the  low-frequency  side, 
where  loss  increases  faster.  The  synmietry  of  the  delay  curve  makes  phase 
compensation  easier. 


102 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


(3)  The  input  standing- wave  ratio  passes  through  zero  on  either  side  of 
mid-band,  and  although  it  has  a  0.6  db  dip  at  mid-band  for  the  case  of 
k  =  0.5,  it  is  under  one  db  over  a  larger  frequency  range  than  in  the  transi- 
tionally  coupled  case. 

(4)  The  bandwidth  between  points  one  db  down  on  the  loss  curve  is  very 
nearly  equal  to  the  bandwidth  between  the  cut-off  frequencies.  This 
bandwidth  is  simply  related  to  the  tune  frequency  /o  and  the  geometric 
midband  frequency /«  as  shown  below. 


A/  =  /o/vr^=rfe-/o/' 


(15) 


Thus,  given  required  values  of/^,  A/,  Ci  (or  i?i),  and  C2  (or  R2),  the  matched 
transformer  can  be  designed  by  the  use  of  formulas  (3),  (8)  and  (15).  These 
formulas  are  summarized  at  the  end  of  this  paper. 

A  transformer  of  different  phase  and  loss  characteristics  results  if  the 
loading  resistance  is  removed  from  one  side  of  a  matched  transformer. 
Equation  (5),  if  i?2  =  °o ,  becomes, 


El 


Vi  -  k'' 


\\&)o/  Wo  « /  J 


(16) 


At  w  =  coo, 

I  E./E'^'  1 2  =  C2/C.  (17) 

while  from  (10)  the  corresponding  ratio  for  the  matched  transformer  is, 

|£./£2|2  =  4C2/C.  (18) 

Thus  this  mis-matched  transformer  has  6  db  more  gain  at  the  tune  fre- 
quency than  the  corresponding  matched  transformer,  whether  used  as  an 
interstage,  an  output  or  an  input  transformer. 

The  transmission  loss  referred  to  the  loss  at  co  =  coo  is, 


■-p[' -©'"-'■'] 


**  Lw 


(1  -  k') 


COo  CO   J 


(19) 


PARALLEL-TUNED  TRANSFORMER  DESIGN 


103 


14 
12 

1A 

\ 

\ 

\ 

1 

8 
6 
4 
2 
0 
-2 

\ 

< 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

f 

\ 

\. 

/ 

^ 

■^ 

^N 

/ 

O    2 


/; 

I 

/ 

A 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

V 

y 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

0.4       0.5         0.6         0.7         0,8        0.9 


1.2  1.3 


Fig.  3.— Loss  and  delay  versus  relative  frequency  for  the  mis-matched  transformer  ob- 
tained by  making  Rt  in  Fig.  1  infinite,  for  k  =  0.5. 

The  transmission  delay  5'  in  this  case  is, 


6'  =  VLilI' 


fey^^-^^^^-feTi^^!lli!!ll!llM 


r' 


seconds. 


(20) 


104 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


The  loss  is  equal  at  four  points, 


OJO, 


CO  =  coo/Vl  —  ^^      ^  =  ^o/Vl 


=  coo/Vl  +  ^. 


The  curves  of  Fig.  3  show  the  loss  and  delay  for  this  mis-matched  trans- 
former for  the  case  where  k  =  0.5.  The  double-humped  band-pass  charac- 
teristic of  the  mis-matched  transformer  can  be  compensated  for  in  an  ampli- 
fier by  de-tuning  slightly  to  equalize  the  humps  and  using  a  single-tuned 
circuit  in  another  interstage  in  which, 


Q  =  ai„.CR  ^  Vl/k^  -  3/4  -  3k^/32 


(21) 


The  above  combination  of  a  mis-matched  transformer  and  a  single-tuned 
transformer,  in  successive  interstages,  will  give  approximately  6  db  more 
gain  than  if  two  matched  transformers  were  used.  The  actual  gain  obtained 
will  depend  upon  the  ratio  of  the  input  and  output  capacitances.  This  gain 
advantage  carries  with  it  the  penalty  of  increased  sensitivity  to  tube  capac- 


Fig.  4. — Mismatched  or  unsymmetrically  loaded  transformer. 


itance  variations.  However,  the  mis-matched  transformer  may  be  used 
to  advantage  in  the  first  interstage  of  an  amplifier  to  minimize  the  effect 
of  the  second  tube  on  the  signal-to-noise  ratio.  It  may  also  be  used  in  the 
last  interstage  to  offset  any  lack  of  power-handling  capacity  in  the  second- 
last  tube. 


(b)  Mismatched  or  Unsymmetrically  Loaded  Transformer 

A  transformer  with  only  one  loading  resistor,  as  in  Fig.  4,  can  always  be 
designed  to  have  the  same  bandpass  and  phase  characteristics  as  the  matched 
transformer^  shown  in  Fig.  1.  No  power  transfer  will  occur,  but  the  ratio 
of  output  voltage  to  the  square  root  of  the  available  input  power  can  be 
determined,  and  set  equal  to  this  ratio  for  the  matched  transformer,  except 

*  This  important  principle  has  been  described  by  S.  Darlington  in  a  paper:  Synthesis  of 
ReacUnce  4-PoIc8,  Journal  of  Mathematics  and  Physics,  Vol.  XVIII,  Sept.  1939,  pp.  257- 
353.  Independently,  this  principle  was  demonstrated  to  the  author  by  W.  J.  Albersheim 
in  an  unpublished  memorandum  dealing  with  the  transitionally  flat  transformer. 


PARALLEL-TUNED  TRANSFORMER  DESIGN  lOS 

for  a  constant  factor.     F'or  the  matched  case  this  ratio  is,  from  equation 
(9), 

,/eI/4r,  _  1 1  /;;Tr  _  M'  i  -  k'  /tt 
y    £i      \ky  c,R,    \mJ    k    y  c,R^ 

/a,\  (2  +  k'WT^^'  ./"cT 

•^  Vcoo/  2;fe2  y  Qi^^ 

For  the  mismatched  transformer  the  corresponding  ratio  can  be  obtained 
from  equation  (4)  by  letting  Ri  approach  infinity,  giving, 


+  J^l—    +  —  )    TTT, -J 

\0i\  CO2/  ^K 


.  oi[oi'i  y/ RiC'M 


2k'  ^''^ 

The  two  transformers  are  to  have  the  same  phase  characteristics,  and  the 
same  band-pass  characteristics  except  for  a  constant  factor  N  where, 

N  =  4/^'  .  \/^  (24) 

The  term.s  involving  voltages  in  (22)  and  (23)  can  be  eliminated  by  com- 
bining with  (24).  Equating  the  coefficients  of  like  powers  of  co  gives  (25), 
below. 


k 
2+k 


kV  C,R,       2k' y  RiCi      o^i 

1^  /-cri_LzL^^/:cr/jL\ 
yc;R,o^i'~  2k'  y c[R[VW2) 

VRiC,C2  •  -2  =  —rr-  VRiCiCi  ( -7-7  j 

k  \(jO\  032/ 


>    (25) 


COo    =    T7 VWiW2iV; 


106  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  last  three  equations  were  simplified  by  the  use  of  equation  (8), 
Equations  (25)  yield  the  five  relations  below: 

coi  =  coo 

C02    =    C0o/VT+T2 


k'    = 


\   (26) 


Summary  of  Design  Formulas 

A  transformer  must  usually  meet  certain  requirements  as  to  bandwidth 
and  mid-frequency.  Loss  curves  for  various  values  of  k^  plotted  against 
relative  frequency  may  be  used.  To  a  very  close  approximation  the  geo- 
metric mean  frequency  fm  =  oim/2ir,  may  be  used  for  the  mid-band  fre- 
quency, and  A/,  the  bandwidth  between  cut-off  points,  may  be  used  for  the 
bandwidth  between  one  db  points.    Then, 


And,  from  (15), 


=  w-v/r^TP  (27) 


'  =  Vi  +  W/UY  ^''^ 


The  other  necessary  relations  for  the  matched  transformer  and  for  the 
mismatched  transformer  with  the  same  transmission  characteristics,  as 
derived  from  equations  (3),  (8)  and  (26)  are  given  below. 

(a)  Matched  Transformer. 


1 


1 

M 


coo 


O30 


R\Ci  =  R2C2 


=  k 


(aak 


(29) 


PARALLEL-TUNED  TRANSFORMER  DESIGN 


107 


(b)  Mismatched  Transformer; 
1 

1 


coo 


COo 


RiC[ 


=  k'  = 


VI    +^2 


(30) 


E'2 


(b)      i. 


R', 


R', 


c; 


C2  E2 

I 

^ L 


^^^2        Q)i\ 


Fig.  5. — Mismatched  transformer  (a)  fed  by  constant  current  generator,  (b)  with  input 

and  output  reversed. 


The  ratio  of  the  output  voltages  in  the  two  cases  is  given  by: 


E2 


N' 


V4^;\ 


y^Rj 


^RiC2 

R1C2 


El 


(31) 


The  relative  gains  of  the  two  transformers,  as  given  by  equation  (31), 
will  be  examined  for  three  important  cases: 

(1)  Input  Transformer — In  this  case  Ri  =  R/,  and  C2  =  Ci\  so  that 
from  (31),  the  mismatched  transformer  gives  four  times,  or  6  db  more 
gain. 

(2)  Output  Transformer — The  voltage  source  in  Fig.  4  may  be  replaced 
by  the  constant  current  source  //  =  Ei/Ri\  by  Norton's  Theorem,  as 
shown  in  Fig.  5(a).  By  the  Reciprocity  Theorem  we  may  exchange  the 
positions  of  the  current  source  and  the  output  voltage  as  shown  in  Fig.  5(b), 
without  changing  the  value  of  the  latter.     This  may  also  be  done  for  the 


108 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


matched  transformer.  The  resultant  circuit  is  that  for  a  pentode  output 
transformer  in  each  case,  where  the  plate  resistance  of  the  tube  is  so  high 
compared  to  circuit  impedance  that  we  can  consider  it  to  be  a  constant 
current  generator  of  g^Eg  amperes,  where  gm  is  the  grid-plate  transconduct- 
ance  and  Eg  the  grid  signal  voltage.  Thus  in  this  case  the  mis-matched 
transformer  also  gives  6  db  more  gain  than  the  matched  transformer. 

(3)  Interstage  Transformer — If  the  voltage  generators  of  Figs.  1  and  4 
are  replaced  by  their  equivalent  current  generators  gmEg  =  Ei/Ri  and 
g^E'g  =  E[/R[,  then  (31)  becomes. 


^2 


=  4 


R1C2 
RiC^ 


2  E 


The  first  relation  in  (26)  may  be  substituted  in  (32)  giving, 

Ci  C2  gm  Eg 


£2 


Cl  C2  gm  Eg 


(32) 


i.3i) 


Thus,  in  the  interstage  case,  this  mismatched  transformer  has  only  3 
db  more  gain  than  the  matched  transformer. 

Here,  as  in  the  case  of  the  first  mismatched  transformer  discussed  in  this 
paper,  there  is  an  increased  sensitivity  to  capacity  variations.  In  practice 
it  appears  that  this  is  not  always  serious  in  wide-band  intermediate-fre- 
quency amplifiers.  Some  improvement  in  noise  figure  and  power  handling 
may  be  obtained,  as  before,  without  encountering  difficulties  with  double- 
peaked  pass-band  characteristics. 

The  design  formulas  given  in  this  paper  have  been  used  successfully  in  the 
design  of  experimental  intermediate  frequency  amplifiers  in  the  65  mc  region 
having  band  widths  of  the  order  of  10  to  20  mc. 


Statistical  Properties  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise 

By  S.  O.  RICE 
Introduction 

TN  some  technical  problems  we  are  concerned  with  a  current  which 
-*-  consists  of  a  sinusoidal  component  plus  a  random  noise  component.  A 
number  of  statistical  properties  of  such  a  current  are  given  here.  The  present 
paper  may  be  regarded  as  an  extension  of  Section  3.10  of  an  earlier  paper/ 
"Mathematical  Analysis  of  Random  Noise",  where  some  of  the  simpler 
properties  of  a  sine  wave  plus  random  noise  are  discussed. 
The  current  in  which  we  are  interested  may  be  written  as 

/  =  Qcos  at  +  Is 

(3.4) 
=  i?cos  {qt  +  B) 

where  Q  and  q  are  constants,  /  is  time,  and  In  is  a  random  (in  the  sense  of 
Section  2.8  of  Reference  A)  noise  current.  When  the  second  expression  in- 
volving the  envelope  R  and  the  phase  angle  6  is  used,  the  power  spectrum  of 
In  is  assumed  to  be  confined  to  a  relatively  narrow  band  in  the  neighborhood 
of  the  sine  wave  frequency /^  =  q/i2x).  This  makes  R  and  6  relatively 
slowly  (usually)  varying  functions  of  time. 

In  Section  1,  the  probabihty  density  and  cumulative  distribution  of  /  are 
discussed.  In  Section  2,  the  upward  "crossings"  of  /  (i.e.,  the  expected 
number  of  times,  per  second,  /  increases  through  a  given  value  /i),  are 
examined. 

The  probability  density  and  the  cumulative  distribution  of  R  are  given  in 
Section  3.10  of  Reference  A.  The  crossings  of  R  are  examined  in  Section  4 
of  the  present  paper. 

The  statistical  properties  of  d',  the  time  derivative  of  the  phase  angle  0j 
are  of  interest  because  the  instantaneous  frequency  of  /  may  be  defined  to 
be/g  +  6' /(It).  The  probabihty  density  of  d'  is  investigated  in  Section  5 
and  the  crossings  of  6'  in  Section  6.  6'  is  a  function  of  time  which  behaves 
somewhat  like  a  noise  current  and  may  accordingly  be  considered  to  consist 
of  an  infinite  number  of  sinusoidal  components.  The  problem  of  determin- 
ing the  "power  spectrum"  W(J)  of  6',  i.e.,  the  distribution  of  the  mean 
square  value  of  the  components  as  a  function  of  frequency,  is  attacked  in 

^B.S.T.J.  23  (1944),  282-332  and  24  (1945),  46-156.  This  paper  will  be  called 
"Reference  A". 

109 


110  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Sections  7  and  8.  The  correlation  function  of  B'  is  expressed  in  terms  of 
exponential  integrals  in  Section  7,  the  power  spectrum  of  In  being  assumed 
symmetrical  and  centered  onfq.  In  Section  8,  values  of  W{f)  are  obtained 
for  the  special  case  in  which  the  power  spectrum  of  In  is  centered  on/^  and  is 
of  the  normal-law  type. 

It  is  beheved  that  some  of  the  material  presented  here  may  find  a  use  in 
the  study  of  the  effect  of  noise  in  frequency  modulation  systems.  For 
example,  the  curves  in  Section  8  yield  information  regarding  the  noise  power 
spectrum  in  the  output  of  a  primitive  type  of  system.  Also,  the  procedure 
employed  to  obtain  the  expression  (5.7)  for  6'  may  be  used  to  show  that  if 

Qcos[(^/coo)  cos  oiQt  -\-  qt]  +  /at  =  i?cos  {qt  +  d) 

the  sinusoidal  component  of  dO/dt  is^ 

—  ^  (1  —  e~^)  sinojo/ 

where  p  is  the  ratio  QV(2  1%)-  This  illustrates  the  ''crowding  effect"  of  the 
noise.  The  statistical  analysis  associated  with  R  and  6  of  equations  (3.4) 
(when  the  sine  wave  is  absent)  is  similar  to  that  used  in  the  examination  of 
the  current  returned  to  the  sending  end  of  a  transmission  line  by  reflections 
from  many  small  irregularities  distributed  along  the  line.  This  suggests 
another  application  of  the  results. 

Acknowledgment 

I  am  indebted  to  a  number  of  my  associates  for  helpful  discussions  on  the 
questions  studied  here.  In  particular,  I  wish  to  thank  Mr.  H.  E.  Curtis  for 
his  suggestions  regarding  this  subject.  As  in  Reference  A,  all  of  the  compu- 
tations for  the  curves  and  tables  have  been  performed  by  Miss  M.  Darville. 
This  work  has  been  quite  heavy  and  I  gratefully  acknowledge  her  contribu- 
tion to  this  paper. 

1.  Probability  Distribution  of  a  Sine  Wave  Plus  Random  Noise 

A  current  consisting  of  a  sine  wave  plus  random  noise  may  be  represented 
as 

/  =  (2cos  qt  +  In  (1.1) 

where  Q  and  q  are  constants,  t  is  the  time,  and  In  is  a  random  noise  current. 
The  frequency,  in  cycles  per  second,  of  the  sine  wave  is/g  =  q/{2'n).     In  all 

*The  first  person  to  obtain  this  result  was,  I  believe,  W.  R.  Young  who  gave  it  in  an 
unpublished  memorandum  written  early  in  1945.  He  took  the  output  of  a  frequency 
modulation  limiter  and  discriminator  to  be  proportional  to  either  the  signal  frequency  or 
to  the  insUntaneous  frequency  (assumed  to  be  distributed  uniformly  over  the  input  band) 
of  Is  according  to  whether  Q  is  greater  or  less  than  the  envelope  of  In  •  His  memorandum 
also  contains  results  which  agree  well  with  several  obtained  in  this  paper. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOtSE  111 

our  work  we  denote  the  power  spectrum  of  In  by  w{f)  and  its  corr'elat'iotf' 
function  by  i/'W-     Themeansquare  value  of /at  is  denoted  by  ^o-  ^  ^' * 

The  study  of  the  probabiUty  distribution  of  /  is  essentially  a  study  of  the 
integraP 

1     r  ri  -  Qcosei 

where 

<fi(x)  =    77^.  e-'"  (1.3) 

and  p{I)  is  the  probabiUty  density  of  /,  i.e.  p{l)dl  is  the  probability  that  a 
value  of  current  selected  at  random  will  lie  in  the  interval  /,  /  +  dl.  An- 
other expression  for  p{I)  is  given  by  equation  (3.10-6)  of  Reference  A, 
namely 

Pil)  =  i-  f  e-'"-*"'"  UQz)  dz  (1.4) 

where  JoiQz)  denotes  the  Bessel  function  of  order  zero. 
The  substitutions 

enable  us  to  write  (1.2)  as 

Pi(y)  =  V^opii)  =  -  f  Ay  -acose)de,  (1.6) 

TT    Jo 

where  pi(y)  denotes  the  probabiUty  density  of  y.  This  is  the  expression 
actually  studied.  Curves  showing  pi(y)  and  the  cumulative  distribution 
function 


f   p{h)dh  =  f   Pi{yi)dyi 
J— 00  •'—00 

=  -  I    (p-i(y  —  0'  cos  0)  ddy 

IT  Jo 


(1.7) 


where 


<P-iioc)  =    r  <p{x,)dx,  =  i  +  ierf  (x/V2)  (1.8) 

J— 00 

3  W.  R.  Bennett,  "Response  of  a  Linear  Rectifier  to  Signal  and  Noise,"  Jour.  Aeons. 
Soc.  Amer.  Vol.  15  (1944),  164-172,  and  B.S.T.J.  Vol.  23  (1944),  97-113. 


112 


"BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


are  shown  in  Figs.  1  and  2.  The  curves  for  a  =  10  and  a  =  \/l0  were  com- 
puted by  Simpson's  rule  from  (1.6)  and  (1.7),  and  the  curves  ior  a  =  1 
were  computed  from  the  series  (1.10)  given  below.     Since  both  (p(x)  and 


Hn 


%|~ 


1.5 

1.0 
0.75 

0.5 
0.4 

0.3 

0.2 
0.15 

0.1 

0.075 

>  0.05 
0.04 

0.03 

0.02 
0.015 

0.01 
0XX)75 

0.005 


1 

/ 

/ 

A 

=  00 

/, 

/   \ 

10 

^^^ 

x^ 

K 

Yio 

\ 

n^ 

^ 

K, 

A 

% 

\ 

^\ 

1^ 

K 

V 

S, 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

> 

\ 

1 

\ 

0.2        OA 


2.6 


0.8         1.0        1.2         1.4  1.6         1.8         2.0        2.2 

1/  (RMSI) 

Fig.  1 — Probability  density  of  sine  wave  plus  noise. 
/  -  Qcm  qtj-  In,  a  -  Q/V^,  y  =  I/V^,  V^  =  rms  ly 
Piiy)  dl/y/rf'o  -  probability  total  current  lies  between  /  and  I  -\-  dl 
y(l  +  flV2)~*/'  "  //(rms  /).     Curves  are  symmetrical  about  y  =  0. 

<p-i(x)  are  tabulated^  functions  the  integrals  in  (1.6)  and  (1.7)  are  well 
suited  to  numerical  evaluation. 

«  \^W.'*  li^^"  directly  and  ip-iix)  may  be  readily  obtained  from  W.P.A.,  "Tables  of 
Probability  Functions,"  Vol.  II,  New  York  (1942).  The  functions  <p^"'\y)  are  tabulated 
SoS  "Probability  and  its  Engineering  Uses"  by  T.  C.  Fry  (D.  Van  Nostrand  Co., 

1928). 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE 


113 


The  form  assumed  by  pi{y)  as  the  parameter  a  becomes  large  is  examined 
in  the  latter  portion  (from  equation  (1.12)  onwards)  of  the  section. 

Series  which  converge  for  all  values  of  a  but  which  are  especially  suited 
for  calculation  when  a  <  1  may  be  obtained  by  inserting  the  Taylor's  series 
(in  powers  of  x)  for  <p(y  +  x)  and  <p^i{y  +  x),  x  =  -a  cos  0,  in  (1.6)  and 
(1.7)  and  integrating  termwise.    When  we  introduce  the  notation* 


<p'''\y) 


dy" 


<p(y) 


-\/27r  dy 


6 


(1.9) 


99.99 


99.95 


uJ    99.8 
tr 


50 


1 

r  ' 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

a=oo 

L 

VTv^ 

^^ 

> 

f 

/ 

C^ 

/ 

/ 

.^ 

-:>^o 

A 

y: 

^ 

/> 

^^ 

A 

^ 

1^ 

^ 

^^ 

€^ 

--^ 

c^ 

0.2        0.4        0.6         0.8         1.0  1.2  1.4         1.6  I 

l/(RMS  TOTAL   CURRENT) 

Fig.  2 — Cumulative  distribution  of  sine  wave  plus  noise 


2.0        2,2        2.4       2.6 


Ordinate  =  100 


/    P\{y^  dyi 

J — 00 


See  Fig.  1  for  notation. 


we  obtain 


Pi(y) 


(2n) 


W 


[y(y.)dy.  =  <P-^{y)  +  t^,(^^   <."-" 


(y) 


(1.10) 


The  second  equation  of  (1.10)  may  be  shown  to  be  valid  by  breaking  the 
interval  {—  ^ ,  y)  into  (—  ■» ,  0)  and  (0,  y).     In  the  first  part, 

/    piiyi)  dy\  =  ¥'-i(0) 


114  BELL  SYSTEM  TECB^tCAL  JOURNAL 

since  both  sides  have  the  value  1/2.  In  the  second,  term  by  term  integra- 
tion is  vah'd  since  the  series  integrated  are  uniformly  convergent  as  may  be 
seen  from  the  inequality 

k<"'W  I  <    (^)"XJ^)"''^  +  ^^""'^  +  0(yV')],       (1.11) 

in  which  we  suppose  that  y  remains  finite  as  w  -^  oo .  This  may  be  obtained 
by  using  the  known  behavior  of  Hermite  polynomials  of  large  order.  ^ 

When  Q  »  rms  In  so  that  a  is  very  large  the  distribution  approaches  that 
of  a  sine  wave,  namely 

0,  I  3'  I  >  ^ 


pi{y) 


\    pi{yi)dyi 

J — 00 


-  -  +  -  arc  sm  ^ ,  \y\  <  a 

2         TT  a 


(1.12) 


In  order  to  study  the  manner  in  which  the  Hmiting  expressions  (1.12)  are 
approached  it  is  convenient  to  make  the  change  of  variable 

x  =  y  -  acosd,  dd  =  [a^  -  {y  -  xY]-^'^  dx 

z  =  X  —  y  -\-  a 

in  (1.6).    We  obtain 

Pi(y)  =  -  r\(x)  [a'  -{y  -  x)Y"'  dx 


T  "y-a 

.2a 


(1.13) 


z  -\-  y  —  a)[z{2a  —  z)]    '  dz. 


JO 

An  asymptotic  (as  a  becomes  large)  expression  for  pi{y)  suitable  for  the 
middle  portion  of  the  distribution  where  a  —  \y  \^  1  may  be  obtained  from 
the  first  integral  in  (1.13).  Since  the  principal  contributions  to  the  value  of 
the  integral  come  from  the  region  around  a;  =  0  we  are  led  to  expand  the 
radical  in  powers  of  x  and  integrate  termwise.  Legendre  polynomials  enter 
naturally  since  they  are  sometimes  defined  as  the  coefficients  in  such  an 
expansion.  Replacing  the  limits  of  integration  y  -\-  a  and  y  —  ahy  -\-<x) 
and  —  00 ,  respectively  and  integrating  termwise  gives 


Pi(y) 


X  L  »-i  (o^  -  f)"  J 

{a*  -  y'r'"  [.    .       3<  +  1  3(35<'  +  m  +  3)  ,  1 

T  I    ^  2(a»  -  /)  "^         8(a2  -  y^y       "t"  • '  •  J 


(1.14) 


•A  suitabk  asymptotic  formula  is  given  in  Orthogonal  Polynomials,  by  G.  Szego, 
Am.  Math.  Soc.  CoUoquium,  Pub.,  Vol.  23,  (1939),  p.  195. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  115 

where  /  =  y^/(a^  —  /)  and  P2n(  )  denotes  the  Legendre  polynomial  of 
order  2n.  We  have  written  this  as  an  asymptotic  expansion  because  it 
obviously  is  one  when  y,  and  hence  /,  is  zero  in  which  case 

n  1.3.5 ••.(2»  -  1) 


P2n(0)    =   (-)' 


2.4....  2» 


When  y  is  near  a  or  is  greater  than  o,  a  suitable  asymptotic  expansion  may 
be  obtained  from  the  second  integral  in  (1.13)  by  expanding  {2a  —  z)~^'^ 
in  powers  of  z/(2a)  and  integrating  termwise.  The  upper  limit  of  integra- 
tion, 2a,  may  be  replaced  by  oc  since  <p{z  -\-  y  —  a)  may  be  assumed  to  be 
negligibly  small  when  z  exceeds  2a.  We  thus  obtain 
1    *    ('l^    / 1  \"+i/2  /•« 

P.(y)  ~  -  E  ^  (;i  )  fi^  +  y-  a)z'"'"'  dz 

T  n=o    n  I    \Za/         Jo 

/  \       <»     /1\        /  1   \n+l/2      /.»  \    '^    ) 

^  (p{y  —  a)  y^  {^Jin  (  JL  )    ■       /     g-^(v-a)-(^2/2)  ^n-m  ^^ 
IT         n=o    nl    \2a/         Jo 

where  we  have  used  the  notation 

(«)o  =  1,  {a)n  =  a{a+l)    •  •  •    {a  +  n  -  1). 

The  integrals  occurring  in  (1.15)  are  related  to  the  parabolic  cylinder 
function^  Dm(x).  Their  properties  may  be  obtained  from  the  known 
properties  of  these  functions  or  may  be  obtained  by  working  directly  with 
the  integrals. 

Suppose  now  that  a  is  very  large  so  that  only  the  leading  term  in  the  series 
(1.15)  for  pi(y)  need  be  retained. 

Then 

piiy)  ^  a-^'^  F(y  -  a)  (1.16) 

where 

F(s)  =  IT-' 2-'"  f    <p(z  +  s)z-"'  dz  (1.17) 

Jo 

By  writing  out  (p(z  +  s),  expanding  exp  (—zs)  in  a  power  series,  and  inte- 
grating termwise  we  see  that 

Fis)  =  ^?«1^^  t  ^^j^  i-sViy  ■  (1.18) 

=  i2T)-'s"\(s/V~2)K^{sV^) 
where  K  denotes  a  modified  Bessel  function.^    The  relation  (1.18)  may  also 

6  Whittaker  and  Watson,  "Modern  Analysis,"  4th  ed.  (1927),  347-351. 

7  A  table  of  A^Ct)  is  given  by  H.  Carsten  and  N.  McKerrow,  Phil.  Mag.  S7,  Vol.  35 
(1944),  812-818. 


116 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


be  obtained  from  pair  923.1  of  'Tourier  Integrals  for  Practical  Applica- 
tions," by  G.  A.  Campbell  and  R.  M.  Foster.^ 

A  curve  showing  F{y  —  a)  plotted  as  a  function  of  >;  —  a  is  given  in  Fig.  3. 
It  was  obtained  from  the  relation 


where 


F{s)  =  2i/V-3/2x(-V\/2) 
Jq 


».£** 

/ 

^^ 

V 

/ 

\ 

0.20 

/ 

\ 

/ 

> 

0.18 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

0.16 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

^  0.14 

/ 

\ 

«D 

X 

V 

3  0.12 

\ 

\ 

U. 

0.10 

\ 

\ 

0.08 

V 

0.06 

0.04 

0.02 

0 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

-3 


■I  0 


Fig.    3 — Probability  density  of  sine  wave  plus  noise. 
When  rms  /jv  <  <  Q  and  /  is  near  Q,  Pi(y)  ^^  a-^i^F{y  -  a),y  -  a  =  (/  -  Q)/(rms  In). 

See  Fig.  1  for  notation. 

This  function  has  been  tabulated  by  Hartree  and  Johnston.* 

The  probability  that  /  exceeds  Q,  or  that  y  exceeds  a,  is,  integrating  the 
second  of  expressions  (1.13), 

/*  1       r^a  ^2  /"* 

Piiy)  dy  =  -         -/  /     ^(x)  dx, 

u  IT  Jo     vz(2o  —  z)  Jz 

An  asymptotic  expansion  may  be  obtained  by  expanding  (2a  -  z)-^'-  as  in 
the  derivation  of  (1.15)  but  we  shall  be  content  with  the  leading  term. 

•  Bell  Telephone  System  Monograph  B-584. 

•  Manchester  Lit.  and  Phil.  Sac.  Memoirs,  v.  83,  183-188,  Aug.,  1939. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  117 

Using 

jf"  z-'"  dz  [  <p{x)  dz  =  j["  ^(x)  dx  f  2-'"  dz  =  2"\-"'  r(|) 

we  obtain 

r  Pi(y)  dy  ~  2-"V-'"r(f)a-"-  =  0.185-  •  -a-'"  (1.19) 

For  use  in  computations  we  list  the  following  values 

r(|)  =  3.62561,         r(f)  =  1.22542,         r(f)  =  0.90640 
2.  Expected  Number  of  Crossings  of  I  per  Second 

In  this  section,  we  shall  study  two  questions.  First,  what  is  the  proba- 
bility P(/i,  t^dt  of  /  increasing  through  the  value  7i  (i.e.  of  /  passing 
through  the  value  /i  with  positive  slope)  during  the  infinitesimal  interval 
/i,  ^1  +  dO  Second,  what  is  the  expected  number  N{Ii)  of  times  per  second 
I  increases  through  the  value  /i.  When  /i  is  zero,  2N(0)  is  the  expected 
number  of  zeros  per  second,  and  when  /i  is  large  /V(/i)  is  approximately 
equal  to  the  expected  number  of  maxima  lying  above  the  value  /i  in  an 
interval  one  second  long. 

We  start  on  the  first  question  by  considering  the  random  function 

2  =  F(fli,  ^2,  •  •  •  cln;  i) 

where  the  a's  are  random  variables.  The  probabiUty  that  the  random  curve 
obtained  by  plotting  2  as  a  function  of  /  increases  through  the  value  z  =  zi 
in  the  interval  /i,  /i  +  dt  is 

■  dt  f    7jp(zuv;h)dr,  (2.1) 

Jo 

where  p(^,  t/;  ti)  denotes  the  probability  density  of  the  random  variables 
^  =  F{ai,  02,  •  •  •   ,  djf-,  h) 


[-1 


In  our  case  z  becomes  the  current  I  defined  by  equation  (1.1).  The 
method  used  to  obtain  equation  (3.3-9)  of  Reference  A  may  also  be  used  to 
show  that  the  quantity  p{Ii,  rj,  ti)  (which  now  appears  in  (2.1))  is  given  by 

/)(/i,  77,  h)  =  — 4f  (fiy  -  a  cos  qti)(p{x  +  b  sin  qh)  (2.2) 

1°  This  result  is  a  straightforward  generalization  of  expression  (3.3-5)  in  Section  3.3  of 
Reference  A  where  references  to  related  results  by  M.  Kac  are  given.  A  formula  equiva- 
lent to  (2.1)  has  also  been  given  by  Mr.  H.  Bondi  in  an  unpublished  paper  written  in  1944. 
He  applies  his  formula  to  the  problem  studied  in  Section  4. 


118  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where  (p{  )  denotes  the  normal  law  function  defined  by  equation  (1.3)  and 


Q  _        V  .   ^       QQ       ^  2af, 

V^o'  ''~V-^|^r  V-^'o'         No 


Equation  (3.3-11)  of  Reference  A  shows  that  No  is  the  expected  number  of 
zeros  per  second  which  In  would  have  if  it  were  to  flow  alone. 

Let  P(/i,  ti)dt  be  the  probabiUty  that  /  will  increase  through  the  value  /i 
during  the  interval  ti,  h  +  dt.    Then  (2.1)  and  (2.2)  give 

P{h    k)  =    f    VpiIi,V,h)dr} 

=  irNo<p(y  —  a  cos  qh)   I     X(p{x  -{-  b  sin  qh)  dx. 
Jo 

The  integral  in  (2.4)  is  of  the  form 
/     X(p{x  -\-  v)  dx  =  ip{v)  —  V  I     <p(x)  dx 

Jo  "^  V 

=   — -  +  (p{v)  +  V  /    (p{x)  dx 

=    -V  ^  ip{v)   +  V(p-i{v) 


(2.5) 


where  v  replaces  h  sin  qti  and  iFi  denotes  a  confluent  hypergeometric  func- 
tion. 

The  distribution  of  the  crossings  at  various  portions  of  the  cycle  (of  the 
sine  wave)  may  be  obtained  by  giving  special  values  to  qti  in  (2.4). 

The  expected  number  of  times  /  increases  through  the  value  /i  in  one 
second  is 


1  r 

N{h)  =  Limit-   /    P{Iuh)dh 

T-*t»     1     Jo 

=  iVo  /    <p{y  —  Or  cos  e)    <p(b  sin  6)  -\-  b  sin  6  I         (p{x)  dx    dS 


(2.6) 


where  we  have  used  (2.4)  and  the  second  equation  of  (2.5),  The  integrand 
in  (2.6)  is  composed  of  tabulated  functions  and  is  of  a  form  suited  to  nu- 
merical integration.     Expanding  v>()'  —  a  cos  6)  in  (2.6)  as  in  the  derivation 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  119 

of  (1.10), Replacing  the  quantity  within  the  brackets  by  the  series  shown  in 
the  last  equation  of  (2.5)  ,'and  integrating  termwise  leads  to 

Nil,  =  iV«(./2)-  ±  ^^^  {fj" ...  (-i;  n  +  V,  -f)         (2.7) 

The  series  (2.7)  converges  for  all  values  of  a,  y,  and  b.  This  follows  from  the 
inequahty  (1.11)  which  may  be  applied  to  <^^^"^(r),  and  from  the  fact  that 
the  iFi  is  less  than  exp  {h^/2)  as  may  be  seen  by  comparing  corresponding 
terms  in  their  expansions. 

The  expected  number  of  zeros,  per  second,  of  I  is  2iV(0)  where  we  have  set 
/i,  and  hence  y,  equal  to  zero.  In  this  case  the  integral  in  (2.6)  may  be 
simplified  somewhat  and  we  obtain 

2iV(0)  =  iVo  [e-«/o(/3)  +  ^  ^^  (^ ,  «)]  (2.8) 


where  /o(iS)  is  the  Bessel  function  of  order  zero  and  imaginary  argument  and 


2      ,       ,2  2  72 


Ie{k,  x)  =   j    e  "/o(^w) 

^0 


4 
du. 


The  integral  Ie(k,  x)  is  tabulated  in  Appendix  I. 

I  have  been  unable  to  obtain  a  simple  derivation  of  (2.8).  It  was  orig- 
inally obtained  from  the  following  integral 

iV(/i)  =  — ^  /*    de  <p(y  -  a  cos  6)   f    X(p{x  +  b  sin  0)  dx       (2.9) 
2    J-T  •'0 

which  may  be  derived  from  the  second  equation  of  (2.4)  and  the  first  of 
(2.6).     Setting  /i  and  y  equal  to  zero  and  writing  out  the  ^'s  gives 

2iV(0)  =^'    r  dd  I    dx 
27r    J-v       Jo 

X  exp  [-Ux   +  2bx  sin  6  +  a  cos'  d  +  b^  sin'  6)]. 

Equation  (2.8)  was  obtained  by  applying  the  method  of  Appendix  III  to 
this  expression. 

3.  Definitions  and  Simple  Properties  of  R  and  0 

The  remaining  portion  of  this  paper  is  concerned  with  the  envelope  R  and 
the  corresponding  phase  angle  6.  These  quantities  are  introduced  and  some 
of  their  simpler  properties  discussed  in  this  section. 

Suppose  that  the  frequency  band  associated  with  In  is  relatively  narrow 


120  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

and  contains  the  sine  wave  frequency  fq.  The  noise  current  may  be  re- 
solved into  two  components,  one  "in  phase"  and  the  other  "in  quadrature" 
with  Q  cos  qt.  Using  the  representation  (2.8-6)  of  reference  A  and  proceed- 
ing as  in  Section  3.7  of  that  paper: 


Is    =     2  ^n  COS   (cOn/    "    <^n)  (3.1) 

n=l 

M 

=     X)  ^n  COS  [(cOn    —   q)t    —  (pn   +  qt] 
n=l 

=  Ic  COS  qt  —  Is  sin  qt  (3.2) 


where 


^  Cn  COS   [(cOn    —   q)t    —   ipn] 


n=l 


0-^) 


h  =   2  ^n  sin  [{o3n  —  q)t 


COn  =  2ir/„,  fn  =  wA/,  c„  =  2w{fn)Af 

w{f)  denotes  the  power  spectrum  of  In  and  the  <^n's  are  random  variables 
distributed  uniformly  over  the  interval  (0,  27r). 
The  total  current  /  may  be  written  as 

I  =  Q  cos  qt  -\-  In 

=  {Q  +  Ic)  cos  qt  —  Is  sin  qt 

.  (3.4) 

=  R  cos  6  cos  qt  —  R  sm  d  sin  qt 

=  R  cos  (9/  +  d) 

where  we  have  introduced  the  envelope  function  R  and  the  phase  angle  d 
by  means  of 

RcosB  =  Q+  le 

Rsmd  =  Is 

Since  /c  and  /,  are  functions  of  /  whose  variations  are  relatively  slow  in 
comparison  with  those  of  cos  qt,  the  same  is  true  of  R  and  (usually)  6. 

A  graphical  illustration  of  equations  (3.4)  and  (3.5)  which  is  often  used  is 
shown  in  Fig.  4. 

In  accordance  with  the  usual  convention  used  in  alternating  current 
theory,  the  vector  OQ  is  supposed  to  be  rotating  about  the  origin  0  with 
angular  velocity  q.  If  In  happened  to  have  the  frequency  q/lr,  its  vector 
representation  QT  would  be  fixed  relative  to  OQ.    In  general,  however,  the 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  121 

length  and  inclination  of  QT  will  change  due  to  the  random  fluctuations  of 
In.  Thus  the  point  T  will  wander  around  on  the  plane  of  the  figure.  If 
rms  In  is  much  less  than  Q,  T  will  be  close  to  the  point  Q  most  of  the  time. 
In  this  case 

6  =  tan     '-^  — 

Q  +  Ic       Q  (3.6) 

dt^  dtQ       Q 

and  a  number  of  statistical  properties  of  R  and  d  may  be  obtained  from  th^ 
corresponding  properties  of  noise  alone  when  we  note  that  I^  Is,  and  Ig 
behave  like  noise  currents  whose  power  spectra  are  concentrated  in  the 
lower  portion  of  the  frequency  spectrum. 

os  =  Q  +  ic  =R  cos  e  T 


Q  S 

Fig.  4 — Graphical  representation  of  /  =  ^cos  qt  +  In  - 

By  squaring  both  sides  of  equations  (3.1)  and  {2>3)  and  then  averaging 
with  respect  to  /  and  the  <^n's  we  may  show  that  I^Is,  and  In  all  have  the 
same  rms  value,  namely  4'\''^. 

It  may  be  seen  from  {33)  that  the  power  spectra  of  Ic  and  Is  are  both 
given  by 

^(/.  +  /)  +  ^(A-/)  (^^-7) 

where  it  is  assumed  that  0  <  /  «/q.  Likewise  the  power  spectrum  of  the 
time  derivative  I's  oi  I s  is 

47r2/X/,+/)  +  Z£;(/,-/)]  (3.8) 

This  follows  from  the  representation  of  /«  obtained  by  differentiating  the 
expression  (3.3)  for  7^  with  respect  to  /,  the  procedure  being  the  same  as  in 
the  derivation  of  equation  (7.2)  in  Section  7.  The  power  spectra  shown  in 
Table  1  were  computed  from  equations  (3.7)  and  (3.8). 

The  correlation  function  for  7^,  and  hence  also  for  7^,  is,  from  equations 
(A2-1)  and  (A2-3)  of  Appendix  II, 

7,(/)7,(/  +  r)  =  g  =    [    ^(/)  cos  lirif  -  f,)T  df 
Jq 


122 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


where  the  bar  denotes  an  average  with  respect  to  /  and  g  is  a  function  of  r. 
From  (A2-3)  the  correlation  function  for  Is  is  —f  where  the  double  prime 
on  g  denotes  the  second  derivative  with  respect  to  r. 

Attention  is  sometimes  fixed  upon  the  variation  in  distance  between  suc- 
cessive zeros  of  /.  The  time  between  two  successive  zeros  of  /  at,  say,  /o  and  h 
is  the  time  taken  for  qt  +  B,  as  appearing  in  R  cos  {qt  +  ^),  to  increase  by  tt. 
This  assumes  that  the  envelope  R  does  not  vanish  in  the  interval.  For  the 
moment  we  write  B  as  B{t)  in  order  to  indicate  its  dependence  on  the  time  /. 
Then  /o  and  h  must  satisfy  the  relation 


qh  +  B{ti)  -  qh  -  B{to)  =  t 
Since  B{t)  is  a  relatively  slowly  varying  function  we  write 

B{t,)  -  B{h)  =  {h  -  h)B'{h)  +  (/i  -  toW{to)/2  + 


(3.9) 


Table  1 
Power  Spectra  of  ly  ,  Ic  ,  Ig ,  and  I's 


Iff 

Ic  and  Is 

I's 

w(f)  =  0  elsewhere 

fg  =  mid-band  frequency 

2wo  for  0  <  /  <  j8/2 
0  elsewhere 

87r2/2«;oforO</<,3/2 
0  elsewhere 

w(f)  =  Wo  =  ^o//3 for/,  -^<f<U 
w(f)  =  0  elsewhere 
/,  =  top  frequency 

0  elsewhere 

47r2/2wofor0  </</3 
0  elsewhere 

<rV27r 

2^0       ^_/2/(2,r2) 

(r\/27r 

SttVVo        /•2/f2(r2) 

where  the  primes  denote  differentiation  with  respect  to  /.     When  this  is 
placed  in  (3.9)  and  terms  of  order  (/i  —  toY  neglected,  we  obtain 


2{h^^)-h'^2^^'^^'^ 


(3.10) 


which  relates  the  interval  between  successive  zeros  to  &'. 

The  expression  on  the  right  hand  side  of  (3.10)  may  be  defined  as  the  in- 
stantaneous frequency: 


Instantaneous  frequency  =  /«  + r- 

27r  at 


(3.11) 


This  definition  is  suggested  when  cos  27r//  is  compared  with  cos  (qt  +  B) 
and  also  by  (3.10)  when  we  note  that  the  period  of  the  instantaneous  fre- 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE  123 

quency  is  approximately  equal  to  twice  the  distance  between  two  successive 
zeros  which  is  2(/i  —  to). 

The  probability  density  of  R  is^^ 

where  /o  (RQ/\po)  denotes  the  Bessel  function  of  order  zero  with  imaginary 
argument.  In  Section  3.10  of  Reference  A,  it  is  shown  that  the  average 
value  of  7?"  is* 


(3.13) 


^   =   (2^orr(|+l),/r,(-|;       1;       -p), 

where  p  =  (3V(2^o),  of  which  special  cases  are 

R  =  e-'\^,llf'  [(1  +  p)/o(p/2)  +  p/i(p/2)] 
—  (3.14) 

Curves  showing  the  distribution  of  R  are  also  given  there. 

4.  Expected  Number  of  Crossings  of  R  per  Second 

Here  we  shall  obtain  expressions  for  the  expected  number  iV/j  of  times, 
per  second,  the  envelope  passes  through  the  value  R  with  positive  slope. 
When  R  is  large,  N r  is  approximately  equal  to  the  expected  number  of 
maxima  of  the  envelope  per  second  exceeding  R  and  when  R  is  small  iV«  is 
approximately  equal  to  the  expected  number  of  minima  less  than  R.  For 
the  special  case  in  which  the  noise  band  is  symmetrical  and  is  centered  on 
the  sine  wave  frequency  /g  N e  is  given  by  the  relatively  simple  expression 
(4.8). 

The  probability  that  the  envelope  passes  through  the  value  R  during  the 
interval  t,t-\-  dt  with  positive  slope  is,  from  (2.1), 

f  R'p{R,R',t)dR'  (4.1) 

where  p{R,  R\  t)  denotes  the  probability  density  of  R  and  its  time  derivative 
R\  t  being  regarded  as  a  parameter. 

An  expression  for  p{R,  R' ,  t)  may  be  obtained  from  the  probability  density 
of  /c,  /s,  I'c,  I's.  From  our  representation  of  a  noise  current  and  the  central 
Hmit  theorem  it  may  be  shown  (as  is  done  for  similar  cases  in  Part  III  of 
Reference  A)  that  the  probabihty  distribution  of  these  four  variables  is 

1^  In  equation  (60- A)  of  an  unpublished  appendix  to  his  paper  appearing  in  the  B.S.TJ. 
Vol.  12  (1933),  35-75,  Ray  S.  Hoyt  gives  an  integral,  obtained  by  integrating  (3.12)  with 
respect  to  R,  for  the  cumulative  distribution  of  R. 

*The  correlation  function  for  the  envelope  of  a  signal  plus  noise,  together  with  associated 
probability  densities  of  the  envelope  and  phase,  is  given  by  D.  Middleton  in  a  paper 
appearing  soon  in  the  Quart.  Jl.  of  Appl.  Math. 


dt 


124 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


normal  in  four  dimensions.     If  the  variables  be  taken  in  the  order  given 
above  the  moment  matrix  is,  from  equations  (A2-2)  of  Appendix  II, 


M 


bo 

0 

0 

^^0 

0 

-bi 

bi 

0 

0 

^i" 

bi 

0 

b2 

0 

0 

b2_ 

(4.2) 


where  the  b's  are  defined  by  the  integrals  in  equations  (A2-1).     The  inverse 
matrix  is 


M-=' 


B 


b. 

0 

0 

-bi' 

,B  -- 

=  bob2 

-bi 

0 

b. 

^'i 

0 

0 

bi 

^^0 

0 

^^1 

0 

0 

^o„ 

(4.3) 


which  may  be  readily  verified  by  matrix  multiplication,  and  the  determinant 
I  If  I  is  B-.  The  normal  distribution  may  be  written  down  at  once  when 
use  is  made  of  the  formulas  given  in  Section  2.9  of  Reference  A.  The  sub- 
stitutions 


Q, 


Ic  =  R'cos  e  -  Rsin  6  6' 


Ic  =  i^cos  6 

I,  =  Rsin  e,  Is  =  R'sin  6  +  Rcos  6  B' 

dicdisdicdis  =  RHRdR'dSdS' 
enable  us  to  write 

b,{il  +  i\) -^  b,{i7  +  I?) 

-2bi(lcls  -  IJc)  =  b2{R'  -  2QRC0S  6  +  Q^) 
+  bo{R'^  +  R^'^) 

-2hiR^'  +  2hiQ{R'sm  6  +  RB'  cos  B), 
Consequently  the  probability  density  of  R,  R',  B,  B'  is 

p{R,  R\  B,  6')  =  ^  exp  |-^  [h,{R'  -  2QRcos  B  +  Q') 

-f  bo(R"  +  R'd'')  -  2biR'e'  +  2biQ(R'sm  B  +  i^^'cos  B)] 


(4.4) 


(4.5) 


In  this  expression  R  ranges  from  0  to  oc ,  ^  from  —  tt  to  tt,  and  R'  and  B' 
from  —  00  to  -|-  oo .    The  probability  density  for  R  Siud  R'  is  obtained  by 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  125 

integrating  (4.5)  with  respect  to  6  and  0'  over  their  respective  ranges.     The 
integration  with  respect  to  6'  may  be  performed  at  once  giving 

-3/2 


.       (4.6) 
exp  |-  2^^^  \B{F^  -  IRQcos  6  +  Q')  -}-  (boR'  +  b.Qsin  0)'] 

From  (4.1)  and  (4.6)  it  follows  that  the  expected  number  TVr  of  times  per 
second  the  envelope  passes  through  R  with  positive  slope  is 

exp  |-  ^^  [B{R'  -  2RQC0S  6  +  Q')  +  {boR'  +  ^^iQsin  6)'] 

When  the  power  spectrum  w(J)  of  the  noise  current  In  is  symmetrical  about 
the  sine  wave  frequency /q,  bi  is  zero  and  B  is  equal  to  60^2.  In  this  case  the 
integrations  in  (4.7)  may  be  performed.    We  obtain 


«-m.-(sh{-'^) 


(b2Y'^       fProbability    density    ofl 
\27r/  |_envelope  at  the  value  Rj 


(4.8) 


where  the  second  Hne  is  obtained  from  expression  (3.12).    As  will  be  seen 
from  its  definition  (A2-1),  bo  is  equal  to  the  mean  square  value  ^0  of  In 
(and  also  of  Ic  and  7  s). 
Introducing  the  notation 

V  =  Rbo'""  =  R/rms  In 

(4.9) 
a  =  Abo^^""  =  Q/rms  In, 

which  is  the  same  as  that  of  equations  (3.10-15)  of  Reference  A  except  that 
there  P  denotes  the  ampHtude  of  the  sine  wave  and  plays  the  same  role  as 
Q  does  here,  enables  us  to  write  (4.8)  as 

The  function  p{v)  is  plotted  as  a  function  of  v  for  various  values  of  a  in  Fig. 
6,  Section  3.10,  of  Reference  A. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that 

(bi/boY'^/Tr  =  Expected  number  of  zeros  per  second  of  U  (or  of  /«)     (4.11) 


126 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


This  relation,  which  is  true  even  if  the  noise  band  is  not  symmetrical  about 
}q,  follows  from  equation  (3.3-11)  of  Reference  A. 

When  Q  y>  rms  In  and/g  is  not  at  the  center  of  the  noise  band  it  is  easier 
to  obtain  the  asymptotic  form  of  Nr  from  the  approximation  (3.6), 

R'^Q  +  Ic, 

instead  of  the  double  integral  (4.7).  When  Q>>  rms  In  and  R  is  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Q  (as  it  is  most  of  the  time  in  this  case),  Nr  is  approximately 
equal  to  the  expected  number  of  times  Ic  increases  through  the  value  Ici  = 
R  —  Q  \n  one  second.  Thus,  regarding  7c  as  a  random  noise  current  we 
have  from  expression  (3.3-14)  of  Reference  A 

Nr  ^  e~^?i^^^*»^  X  [1/2  the  expected  number  of  zeros  per  second  of  I c] 
and  when  we  use  equation  (4.11)  we  obtain 


N, 


27r 


{h/b. 


Iir 


m-^v-aw        (4_^2) 


Table  2 
'(/)  =  wq  =  6o//3  over  a  Band  of  Width  jS 


hi 

Nr 

1. 

Band  extends  from  /«  -  ^/2  to 

h  +  m 

xWo/3 

{ic/(>Yl^^p{v)^O.n^^p{v) 

2. 

Same  as  1  and  in  addition  Q  =  0 

(( 

(7r/6)'/2/3z)e-'''/2 

3. 

Same    as    1    and    in    addition 
Q  >  >  rms  /^ 

« 

2\/3 

4. 

Band  extends  from  /,  to  /<,  +  /3 
and  Q  >>  rms  In 

^TT^^h./Z 

_     ^           („_a)2/2 

Table  2  lists  the  forms  assumed  by  (4.10)  and  (4.12)  when  the  power  spec- 
trum w(j)  of  the  noise  current  In  is  constant  over  a  frequency  band  of  width  jS. 
The  quantity  b^'m  the  expressions  for  bi  represents  the  mean  square  value 
oUn. 

In  the  general  case  where  the  band  of  noise  is  not  centered  on  Jq  and 
where  R  is  not  large  enough  to  make  (4.12)  valid  we  are  obliged  to  return  to 
the  double  integral  (4.7).  Some  simplification  is  possible,  but  not  as  much 
as  could  be  desired.     Introducing  the  notation 

a  =  RQ/b,,  y  =  b,Q{Bbo)-"- 

X  =  {boR'  +  biQsm  e)(Bbo)-'i^ 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  127 


enables  us  to  write  (4.7)  as 


•'-  T         -^  7  sin  0 


acO8  0-x2/2     -  (^'^^^ 


(4.14) 


Part  of  the  integrand  may  be  integrated  with  respect  to  x  and  the  remaining 
portion  integrated  by  parts  with  respect  to  6.  The  double  integral  in  the 
second  Hne  of  (4.13)  then  becomes 

''-r  •'-xL''7sine  J 

=    1^1    +  tV  cos  ^)g«cos(>-(.sin^)V2  ^^ 

=  2x1:  %  (-  ^T  [/„(«)  +  7^a-'/„«(a)l. 

n=0      W!      \  «/ 

The  series  is  obtained  by  expanding  exp  [—(7  sin  Sy/l]  in  the  second 
equation  in  powers  of  sin  6  and  integrating  termwise. 

5.  Probability  Density  of  — 

dt 

As  was  pointed  out  in  Section  3  the  time  derivative  6'  of  the  phase  angle 
0  associated  with  the  envelope  is  closely  related  to  the  instantaneous  fre- 
quency. The  probabiHty  density  p{d')  of  d'  may  be  expressed  in  terms  of 
modified  Bessel  functions  as  shown  by  equation  (5.4).  Curves  for  p{d')  are 
given  when  the  sine  wave  frequency  fq  lies  at  the  middle  of  a  symmetrical 
band  of  noise.  Although  the  expressions  for  p{d')  are  rather  complicated, 
those  for  the  averages  B'  and  |  d'  \  given  by  equations  (5.7)  and  (5.16)  are 
relatively  simple. 

The  probability  density  p{d')  may  be  obtained  by  integrating  the  expres- 
sion (4.5)  for  p(R,R',d,  6')  with  respect  to  R,  R\  6.  The  integration  with 
respect  to  R',  the  limits  being  —  00  and  +  =0 ,  gives  the  probability  density 
fori?,  ^,  ^': 

piR,  e,  6')  =  —^  ( -?^  )     exp  l-aR'  +  2bR  cos  6  +  c  sin'^ 

47r2  \boB/  ^^  j^ 

-b^'/{2B)] 


128  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


B  =  ioAs  -  b\ 

b  =  Q(b,  -  b,0')/{2B) 

a=  {h-  IbrB'  +  boe'^)/(2B) 

c  =  Q^bl/(2Bbo)  =  blp/B 

P  =  QV(2fto) 

y  =  Via 

(5.2) 


and  io,  ^1,  ^2  are  given  in  Appendix  II. 

Integrating  with  respect  to  R  gives  the  probabiUty  density  for  ^,  B' . 
Expanding  exp  {^hR  cos  Q)  in  powers  of  R  and  integrating  termwise, 

J,//)    /}/\    _         ^       I      ^      \  c  ain^-bibopl B 


^       n  +  1      fb  cos  eY 


n=0    -p 


When  we  integrate  ^  from  —  x  to  tt  to  obtain  p{$')  the  terms  for  which  n 
is  odd  disappear  and  we  have  to  deal  with  the  series,  writings  for  &-/o, 

Z  ^-^4^  (t  cos'  ^)'"  =  (27  cos'  e  +  1)  exp  (7  cos'  ^) 


Thus,  the  probabiUty  density  of  0'  is 


in^e-hycoa'i  e-bzboplB     i^ 


From  (5.2) 

>2  -  2bie' 


c  =  p 


62  -  2^10'  +  M'2 
c  +  7       ^26op  pb2  -  IbiB'  +  2M'' 


(5.5) 


2  5  2  62  -  2^>l^'  +  M'2 

It  will  be  noted  that  for  large  values  of  |  ^'  |  the  probability  density  of  6' 
varies  as  |  d'  |~'.  Although  this  makes  the  mean  square  value  of  6'  infinite, 
the  average  values  6'  and  |~^  of  6'  and  |  6'  \  still  exist.  In  order  to  obtain 
e*  it  is  convenient  to  return  to  (4.5)  and  write 

^  =  j[  (f^l  rfi?  j[    dR'  j  de'  e'p{R,  R\  e,  e')         (5.6) 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE  129 

The  integration  with  respect  to  6'  may  be  performed  by  setting  RB'  equal  to 
X  and  using 


/ 


+  00 

X  e  ax  =  {(3/ a)  yK/a)      e 


The  integral  in  R'  reduces  to  a  similar  integral  except  that  the  factor  x  in 
the  integrand  is  absent.  Performing  these  two  integrations  and  using  the 
definition  of  B  leads  to 

0'  =  w--?!]     dd  /    dR{R  -Q  cos  d) 

exp^-^^(R'  -2QRcosd  +  Q')^ 

We  may  integrate  at  once  with  respect  to  R.  When  this  is  done  cos  d  dis- 
appears and  the  integration  with  respect  to  6  becomes  easy.     Thus 

d'  =  (bi/bo)  exp  [-Q'/i2bo)]  =  {bi/boje-"  (5.7) 

When  the  noise  power  spectrum  is  equal  to  Wo  in  the  band  extending  from 
/o  —  13/2  to/o  +  13/2  and  is  zero  outside  the  band,  bi  =  27r(/o  —  fq)bQ. 
Hence,  from  (3.11), 
ave.  instantaneous  frequency  =  /g  +  0V(27r) 

= /o  +  a.  - /o)(i  -  o  ^^-^^ 

In  the  remainder  of  this  section  we  assume  the  power  spectrum  of  the 
noise  current  to  be  symmetrical  about  the  sine  wave  frequency /g.  In  this 
case  bi  and  c  are  zero,  B  is  equal  to  ^0^2  and  (5.4)  becomes 

Pie')  =  iibo/b^y^K^  +  zT"'e-'+"' 

[(y  +  l)/o(y/2)  +  y/i(y/2)]  (5.9) 


(bo/b2Y''il  +  z')-'''e-\F,(^;  1;  y^ 


where  iFi  denotes  a  confluent  hypergeometric  function^^  and 

s2  =  boeyb2,  y  =  (t)6,=0  =  P/(1  +  2^)  (5.10) 

When  the  noise  power  spectrum  is  constant  in  the  band  extending  from 

fq  -  13/2  to/g  +  13/2  (see  Table  2,  Section  4) 

(^,2/^,o)l/2  =  3-'!'(3ir,  z  =  3''-d'/{M  (5.11) 

12  The  relation  used  above  follows  from  equation  (66)  (with  misprint  corrected)  of  VV.  R. 
Bennett's  paper  cited  in  connection  v.ith  equation  (1.2). 


130 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


VALUE  Aie  =0 
2.5  ' 

2.0 

1.5 


ij 


0.5 
r     0.25 

[       0.1 

0.05 

0.025 

0.01 

0.005 

0.0025 

0.001 


—I — 1 — 1 — 1 1 — 1 — 1 1 1 1 1 — 1 — 

1        1     1    1  I      r        1 

1    !  !  !!  !    1*-- 

r     1    .  1      1        .            1 

' 

' 

Q= 

AVE.  SINE  WAVE  POWER 

^       2>//0 

AVE.  NOISE  POWER 

-^ 

::^ 

:^v 

■-~z 

^ 

" 

^ 

^ 

s 

^ 

^^ 

\ 

\ 

\' 

^^0- 

\, 

\ 

\  ■ 

\^ 

^V 

\, 

\ 

^ 

\\ 

sV 

\> 

N 

p=io\ 

6\4^ 

^t\N'^^ 

I    0^ 

K 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\  \ 

N 

X 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V^ 

N 

""^ 

v 

\ 

— 1— 

— 1— 

\ 

\ 

N 

"^i. 

^ 

0.1 


0.2         0.3     0.4  0.5  0.1 


0.8     1 

V3e'/(/3-ir) 


4      5      6 


Fig.  5 — Probability  density  of  time  derivative  of  phase  angle. 

p{&)  dB'  =  probability  that  the  value  of  dd/dt  at  an  instant  selected  at  random  lies  be- 
tween 6'  and  d'  +  dd' .  The  power  spectrum  of  In  is  constant  in  band  of  width 
/3  centered  on  fq  and  is  zero  outside  this  band. 


99.99 


99.95 
99.9 


V 

^     99.5 

•o 

>        99 


95 


90 


60 


i  70 


1 — 1— 

~i— 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

^ 

■p^ 

y 

/ 

/ 

^ 

y 

y^ 

p  =  io/ 

«/ 

/" , 

y' 

y 

^ 

y 

/ 

/  , 

'/> 

^. 

y^ 

y 

y 

y 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

y^ 

y^ 

y 

y 

y 

/ 

A 

/ 

V 

y 

°^ 

y 

/ 

/ 

/. 

'/ 

y. 

y 

y 

/, 

/, 

^, 

^ 

y 

y 

y 

4 

4 

^ 

/ 

y 
y 

> 

/ 

y 

^ 

s 

<^ 

/ 

y^ 

x^ 

*''\^,^ 

— -" 

.  1. 

-i- 

1— 

0.1 


0.2 


0.3     0.4  0.5  0.6      0.8      1  2 

YTei/Cp-ir) 
Fig.  6— Cumulative  distribution  of  time  derivative  of  phase  angle. 
Notation  explained  in  Fig.  5. 


4       5     6         8      10 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE  131 

The  probability  density  p{d')  of  6'  and  its  cumulative  distribution,  ob- 
tained by  numberical  integration,  are  shown  in  Figs.  5  and  6. 

The  probability  that  0'  exceeds  a  given  d'l  is  equal  to  the  probability  that 
z  exceeds  Si,  where  Si  denotes  (6o/W^^*"^i,  and  both  probabilities  are  equal  to 

^£(1  +.V'%Fxg;  l;p(l  +  zY^'^dz  (5.12) 

The  probability  that  6'  >  d[  becomes  e~'/(4:zl)  as  01  -^  oo  . 

When  Q  »  rms  In  the  leading  term  in  the  asymptotic  expansion  of  the 
1^1  in  (5.9)  gives 

P(e')  ~  ^e-""''"\         a^  =  VQ'  (5.13) 

when  it  is  assumed  that  s-  «  1.  This  expression  holds  only  for  the  central 
portion  of  the  curve  for  p{d').  Far  out  on  the  curve,  p{d')  still  varies  as 
d'~^.  Equation  (5.13)  may  be  obtained  directly  by  using  the  approximation 
(3.6)  that  6'  is  nearly  equal  to  Ig/Q  and  noticing  that  bz  is  the  mean  square 
value  of  li. 

If  the  sine  wave  is  absent,  p  is  zero  and 

P(e')  =  hibo/b2y'hi  +  zT'''  (5.14) 

which  is  consistent  with  the  results  given  between  equations  (3.4-10)  and 
(3.4-11)  of  Reference  A.     In  this  case  (5.12)  becomes 

^-|'(l  +  z?)-'«  (5.15) 

Although  the  standard  deviation  of  6'  is  infinite  an  idea  of  the  spread  of 
the  distribution  may  be  obtained  from  the  average  value  of  \  6'  \.  Setting 
bi  equal  to  zero  in  (4.5)  in  order  to  obtain  the  case  in  which  the  noise  band  is 
symmetrical  about  the  sine-wave  frequency  leads  to 

[V\  =  — 4t   I    dR       del      dR'      dd'B'R' 
4:Tr''Oo02  "'o  'J-TT       J- 00  Jo 

exp  i  1-(R:'  -  2QR  cos  d  +  Q'')/bo  -  (R''  -f  R^d'')/b2^ 

The  integrals  in  R',  B'  cause  no  difficulty  and  the  integral  in  B  is  proportional 
to  the  Bessel  function  Io{QR/bo).  When  the  resulting  integral  in  R  is 
evaluated^^  we  obtain 


ib2/boy^h-'"lo{p/2)  (5.16) 


where  p  =  Q'/{2bo). 


13  See,  for  example,  G.  N.  Watson,  "Theory  of  Bessel  Functions,"  Cambridge  (1944), 
p.  394,  equation  (5). 


132  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

When  p  is  zero  equation  (5.16)  agrees  with  a  result  given  in  Section  3.4  of 
reference  A,  namely,  for  an  ideal  band  pass  filter 

ave  I  r  —  Ti  I  _       fb  —  fa 

Vl  VS{fb+fa) 

where  r  is  the  interval  between  two  successive  zeros  and  n  is  its  average 
value,     r  is  equal  to  /i  —  to  of  our  equation  (3.10)  from  which  it  follows  that 

(r  -  ri)/ri  -    -  d'/q  (5.17) 

do 
6.  Expected  Number  of  Crossings  of  6  and  —  per  Second 

at 

After  a  brief  study  of  the  expected  number  of  times  per  second  the  phase 
angle  6  increases  through  0  and  through  t  (where  it  is  assumed  that  —  tt  < 
d  <  it)  expressions  are  obtained  for  the  expected  number  Ne'  of  times  per 
second  the  time  derivative  of  6  increases  through  the  value  d\ 

The  point  T  shown  in  Fig.  4  of  Section  3  wanders  around,  as  time  goes  by, 
in  the  plane  of  the  figure.  How  many  times  may  we  expect  it  to  cross  some 
preassigned  section  of  the  Hne  OQ  in  one  second?  To  answer  this  problem 
we  note  that,  from  expression  (2. IX  the  probability  that  6  increases  through 
zero  during  the  interval  t,  t  -\-  dt  with  the  envelope  lying  between  R  and 
R-\-  dR  is 

dtdRf  e'p{R,0,d')de'  (6.1) 

where  the  probability  density  in  the  integrand  is  obtained  by  setting  6  equal 
to  zero  in  equation  (5.1).  The  expected  number  of  such  crossings  per  second 
is  • 

(liry'"  {boBy"'R'dRe-'^''-''''''''' 

.«  (6.2) 

/  dd'e'exp  [-boR^e^'/ilB)  +  hR{R  -  Q)e'/B\ 

which  may  be  evaluated  in  terms  of  error  functions  or  the  function  (p-i{x) 
defined  by  equation  (1.8).  For  the  special  case  in  which  the  power  spec- 
trum of  the  noise  current  In  is  symmetrical  about  the  sine  wave  frequency, 
bi  is  zero  and  (6.2)  yields 

{lirr'^-^'bTe-'''-''''"''''  dR  (6.3) 

From  equation  (6.1)  onwards  we  have  tacitly  assumed  that  the  range  of  6 
is  given  by  —  tt  <  ^  <  tt  because  setting  B  equal  to  any  multiple  of  27r  in  our 
equations  leads  to  the  same  result  as  setting  B  equal  to  zero.  This  is  due  to 
B  occurring  only  in  cos  B  and  sin  B.    When  B  increases  through  the  value  tt. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  133 

as  it  does  when  the  point  T  crosses,  in  the  downward  direction,  the  extension 
of  the  Hne  OQ  lying  to  the  left  of  the  point  0  in  Fig.  4,  we  imagine  the  value 
of  6  to  change  discontinuously  to  the  value  —  w. 

The  expected  number  of  times  per  second  6  increases  through  r  may  be 
obtained  from  (6.2)  and,  in  the  symmetrical  case,  from  (6.3)  by  changing  the 
sign  of  Q  since  this  produces  the  same  effect  as  changing  6  from  0  to  tt  in 

p{R,  e,  e'). 

The  expected  number  of  crossings  per  second  when  R  lies  between  two 
assigned  values  may  be  obtained  by  integrating  the  above  equations.  For 
example,  the  number  of  times  per  second  B  increases  through  zero  with  R 
between  Q  and  Ri  is,  from  (6.3)  for  the  symmetrical  case, 

{^^)-Kh/h,yi^  erf  [{2h,)-^i^  \Ri-Q\]  (6.4) 

where  we  have  used  the  absolute  value  sign  to  indicate  that  Ri  may  be  either 
less  than  or  greater  than  Q  and 


erf  X 


-1/2 


f  e-'"  dt  (6.5) 


Expressions  for  ^o  and  62  are  given  by  equations  (A2-1)  of  Appendix  II. 
The  mean  square  value  of  In  is  ^0,  and  when  the  power  spectrum  of  I^  is 
constant  over  a  band  of  width  j(3,  Z>2  =  T'^^^bo/3. 

In  much  the  same  way  it  may  be  shown  that  the  expected  number  of  times 
per  second  0  increases  through  tt  with  R  between  0  and  i?i  is 

{^T)-'{b2/boy"  {erf  l{2bo)-'iKRi  +  Q)]  -  erf  l{2bo)-'^V]}        (6.6) 

A  check  on  these  equations  may  be  obtained  by  noting  that  the  expected 
number  of  zeros  per  second  of  7^,  given  by  equation  (4.11),  is  equal  to  twice 
the  number  of  times  6  increases  through  zero  plus  twice  the  number  of  times 
0  increases  through  tt.  Setting  Ri  equal  to  zero  in  (6.4),  to  infinity  in  both 
(6.4)  and  (6.6),  and  adding  the  three  quantities  obtained  gives  half  of  (4.11), 
as  it  should. 

Now  we  shall  consider  the  crossings  of  0'.  The  equations  in  the  first  part 
of  the  analysis  are  quite  similar  to  those  encountered  in  Section  3.8  of 
Reference  A  where  the  maxima  of  R,  for  noise  alone,  are  discussed.  We 
start  by  introducing  the  variables  0:1,  3:2,  •  •  •  x^  where 

x^  =  I,  =  Rcos  0  -  Q,        xa  =  Is  =  Rsin  0  (6.7) 

and  the  remaining  x^s  are  defined  in  terms  of  the  derivatives  of  Ic  and  Is  and 
are  given  by  the  equations  just  below  (3.8-4)  of  Reference  A. 

Here  we  shall  consider  the  noise  band  to  be  symmetrical  about  the  sine 


134  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

wave  frequency /g  so  that  ^i  and  ^3  are  zero.  Then  from  equations  (3.8-3) 
and  (3.8-^)  of  Reference  A  the  probabiHty  density  of  xi,  x^,  -  "  x%  is 

-— -—  exp  (  -—-  [b^ixl  +  ^4)  +  2h2{xiXz  +  x^x^) 

S^hD         \     2D  ^^^^ 

+  {D/b2){xl  +  xl)  +  ^0(^3  +  xl)]\ 

where  D  =  ^0^4  —  ^2  and  the  bjs  are  given  by  equations  (A2-1).  Replac- 
ing the  .x''s  by  their  expressions  in  terms  of  R  and  d,  similar  to  those  just 
above  equation  (3.8-5)  of  Reference  A,  shows  that  the  probability  density 
for  R,  R\  R",  e,  d\  e"  is 


/>(/?,  R\  R'\  0,  e\  e")  =  g-^  ^^P  ("2^  [^^(^'  -  2i?(3 COS e  +  Q 


+  {D/h2){R'^  +  R'e'^)  +  2h2{RR"  -  R^d"")  (6.9) 

+  ho{R"^  -  2RR"e'^  +  ^R'^e'^  +  ^RR'e'e''  +  R^e"  +  r^'"") 


) 


-  2hQ{R"  cos  e  -  Rd'^  cos  d  -  2R'e'  sin  d  -  RB''  sin  d)] 

It  must  be  remembered  that  (6.9)  applies  only  to  the  symmetrical  case  in 
which  61  and  b^  are  zero. 

Integrating  R'  and  R'^  in  (6.9)  from  —  oc  to  qo  gives  the  probability 
density  of  R,  $,  6\  B" .  The  integration  with  respect  to  R"  is  simplified  by 
changing  to  the  variable  R''  -  RB'-.     The  result  is 

p{R,  B,  B\  B")  =  R\2Tr)-\bQb2D)-^i\\  +  u)-^'^ 

exp  ^-^^  1^7?'  -  2i?(2cos  ^  +  Q'  +  b^R^B'^/b^  ^^^^^ 


(Qbi  sin  B  +  boRB 


n 


(1  +  u)D 

where  u  =  Ab2boB'''/D.    The  expected  number  of  times  per  second  the  time 
derivative  of  0  increases  through  the  value  B'  is 

AT,,  =  1    dB  j    dR  I    dB''B''p{R,  B,  B\  B") 

-\b2b/b,f"  f  dB  r  rdrf  xdx  ^^^^^ 

J-  X  Jo  Jo 


=    IT 


exp  [-yr-  -f-  2mcos  B  -  a^  -  8{x  +  asm  B^} 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  135 

where  we  have  set 

r  =  R{2bo)-''-  X  =  rboOyh 

a  =  Qilbo)-'''  =  p'^  7=1  +  b,e''/b2  =  1+2'        (6.12) 


(1  +  u)D 


r  being  regarded  as  a  constant  when  the  variable  of  integration  is  changed 
from  Q"  to  x. 

The  double  integral  in  Q  and  x  occurring  in  (6.11)  is  of  the  same  form  as 
(A3-1)  of  Appendix  III  and  hence  may  be  transformed  into  (A3-3).  Here 
a  =  r  a^c  =  —  So:-,  c  +  6-  =  0.  The  diameter  of  the  path  of  integration  C 
may  be  chosen  so  large  that  the  order  of  integration  may  be  interchanged 
and  the  integration  wdth  respect  to  r  performed.  The  result  is  again  an 
integral  of  the  form  (A3-3)  in  which  a-  =  ^.  When  this  is  reduced  to  (A 3-6) 
it  becomes 

,Y,,  =  e-\l'KiY^bT{b,hY^^''  [e-''i^h{hp/2) 

(6.13) 
+  (1  +  t5)(1  +  75/2)-V/Ve  {76(2  +  yb)-\  p/y  +5p/2!] 

where  we  have  used  Ie{—k,  x)  =  Ie{k,  x)  which  follows  from  the  definition 
(A  1-1)  given  in  Appendix  I. 
When  there  is  no  sine  wave  present,  p  is  zero  and  (6.13)  becomes 


1/2      /i/  F  -  r  +  40'' 


Ne'  =  ^{y-^     =    '    ")      "\       .  (6.14) 


This  gives  a  partial  check  on  some  of  the  above  analysis  since  (6.14)  may  be 
obtained  immediately  by  setting  a  equal  to  zero  in  (6.11).  Another  check 
may  be  obtained  by  letting  p  ^>  ^c  and  using  Ie{k,  cc )  =  (1  —  k-)-^'-. 
(6.13)  becomes 

Ne'  -  (27r)-KVW^^-^-'"'  (6.15) 

which  agrees  with  the  result  obtained  from  6'  ^  L/Q- 

For  the  case  in  which  the  power  spectrum  w(J)  of  the  noise  is  equal  to  the 
constant  value  Wq  over  the  frequency  band  extending  from  fq  —  ^/2  to 

bo  =  /3wo,     b2  =  ir-^'wo/S  =  tt^^^^o/S,     b^  =  ir'^'^Wo/o  =  ir'lS'bo/S     (6.16) 


136  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

These  lead  to 
z  =  (bo/hY^'B'  =  31/2^7 (tt^)        D/bl  =  hho/hl  -1  =  9/5-1  =  4/5 

u=^h\zVD  =  Si  5  =  4(r^  (6.17) 

7  =   1  +  2^ 

and  the  coeflScient  in  (6.13)  may  be  simphfied  by  means  of 


From  (6.14)  we  see  that  (6.18)  is  equal  to  Ne'  when  noise  alone  is  present 
(and  is  of  constant  strength  in  the  band  of  width  ^).  The  curves  of  Ne'/^ 
versus  z  shown  in  Fig.  7  were  obtained  by  setting  (6.17)  and  (6.18)  in  (6.13). 
Ne'/^  approaches  ^"''/(z  ■\/3)  as  2  ^  oo  . 

When  the  wandering  point  T  of  Fig.  4  passes  close  to  the  point  0,  0 
changes  rapidly  by  approximately  tt  and  produces  a  pulse  in  d\  In  dis- 
cussions of  frequency  modulation  6'  is  sometimes  regarded  as  a  noise  voltage 
which  is  applied  to  a  low  pass  filter.  Although  the  closer  T  comes  to  O 
the  higher  the  pulse,  the  area  under  the  pulse  will  be  of  the  order  of  tt  and 
the  response  of  the  low  pass  filter  may  be  calculated  approximately. 

That  the  pulses  in  0'  arise  in  the  manner  assumed  above  may  be  checked 
as  follows.  We  choose  a  point  relatively  far  out  on  the  curve  for  p  =  5  in 
Fig.  7,  say  z  =  Vsoyifiw)  =  1.6  or  6'  =  2.9/3.  The  number  of  pulses  per 
second  having  peaks  higher  than  2.9/5  is  roughly  Ne'  =  .009)9,  and  half  of 
these  have  peaks  greater  than  0'  =  3.8/8  which  is  obtained  from  Fig.  7  for 
N9'  =  .0045/8.  From  Fig.  6  we  see  that  6'  exceeds  2.9/8  about  .0018  of  the 
time.  Thus  the  average  width  at  the  height  2.9/3  of  the  class  of  pulses 
whose  peaks  exceed  this  value  is  .00 18/ (.009/8)  =  .2//3  seconds.  This  figure 
is  to  be  checked  by  the  width  obtained  from  the  assumption  that  the  typical 
pulse  arises  when  T  moves  along  a  straight  line  with  speed  v  and  passes 
within  a  distance  b  of  0.  We  take  tan  6  =  vt/b  =  at  so  that 
0'  =  a/ (I  +  aH^).  From  this  expression  for  6'  it  follows  that  a  pulse  of 
peak  height  3.8/3  (the  median  height)  has  a  width  of  .3//8  seconds  at  d'  = 
2.9/3.  This  agreement  seems  to  be  fairly  good  in  view  of  the  roughness  of 
our  work.  A  siiTiilar  comparison  may  be  made  for  p  =  0  by  using  the 
limiting  forms  of  (5.15)  and  (6.18).  Here  it  is  possible  to  compute  the 
average  width  instead  of  estimating  it  from  the  median  peak  value.  Exact 
agreement  is  obtained,  both  methods  leading  to  an  average  width  of  7r/(4^') 
seconds  at  height  d'. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE 


137 


0.38 


0.34 


0.28 


0.26 


0.18 


O.K 


0.14 


0.12 


0.10 


0.06 


0.02 


N, 

\ 

-^ 

v: 

\ 

X 

Y 

r\ 

\ 

\ 

s 

/ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

\, 

N 

p=o 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

X 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

Xj 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

X 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

X 

\, 

\ 

V 

> 

\ 

^ 

\ 

,5 

\ 

X 

\s 

\ 

\ 

^ 

^^ 

<^ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

N 

\ 

■-^ 

\ 

\ 

'    ^ 

— ■ 

^ 

0         0.2       0.4       0.6        0.8        I.O         1.2        1.4        1,6        1.8        2.0       2.2       2.4       2 

Y3e'/C/37r) 
Fig.  7 — Crossings  of  time  derivative  of  phase  angle. 

Ne'  =  expected  number  of  times  per  second  d$/dt  increases  through  the  valued' 
and  the  power  spectrum  of  /y  are  the  same  as  in  Fig.  5. 


6        2.8 


138  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

7.  Correlation  Function  for  — 

at 

In  this  section  we  shall  compute  the  correlation  function  12(t)  of  d'{t). 
We  are  primarily  interested  in  12 (r)  because  it  is,  according  to  a  fundamental 
result  due  to  Wiener,  the  Fourier  transform^^  of  the  power  spectrum  W{j) 
of  ^(/). 

We  shall  first  consider  the  case  in  which  the  sine  wave  power  is  very  large 
compared  with  the  noise  power  so  that,  from  (3.6),  6  is  approximately 
IJQ  and  6'  approximately  I's/Q.    Then  using  (A2-3)  and  (A2-1) 


o(t)  =  e'{t)e\t  +  r)  -  Qr-n's{t)i[{t  +  r) 

=  -g"Q~"  =  4^V  r^(/)(/  -A)' cos  2Hf-f,)Tdf 
Jo 


(7.1) 


When  wif)  is  effectively  zero  outside  a  relatively  narrow  band  in  the  neigh- 
borhood oifqj  as  it  is  in  the  cases  with  which  we  shall  deal,  (7.1)  leads  to  the 
relation  (divide  the  interval  (0,  oo)  into  (0, /g)  and  (fg,  oo),  introduce  new 
variables  of  integration  fi  =  fq  —  f,f2  =  f  —  fq  in  the  respective  intervals, 
replace  the  upper  limit /g  of  the  first  integral  by  go  ,  combine  the  integrals, 
and  compare  with  (2.1-6)  of  Reference  A) 
Power  spectrum  of  d'{t)  =  W(f) 

=  ^T'fQ-'lw(Jq  +  /)  +  w(fq  -  /)]  (7.2) 

This  form  is  closely  related  to  results  customarily  used  in  frequency  modula- 
tion studies.  It  should  be  remembered  that  in  (7.2)  it  is  assumed  that 
0  <  / «/«  and  rms  In  «  Q. 

Additional  terms  in  the  approximation  for  Q(t)  may  be  obtained  by 
expanding 

d  =  arc  tan        ' 


Q  +  lc 


in  descending  powers  of  Q,  multiplying  two  such  series  (one  for  time  t  and 
the  other  for  time  /  +  r)  together,  and  averaging  over  /.  If  Id,  I  si  and 
/c2,  1*2  denote  the  values  of  7^,  /«  at  times  t  and  /  +  r  respectively,  the 
average  values  of  the  products  of  the  /'s  may  be  obtained  by  expanding  the 
characteristic  function  (obtainable  from  equation  (7.5)  given  below  by 
setting  2&  =  z«  =  27  =  28  =  0)  of  the  four  random  variables  Id,  I  si,  Ici,  I  si- 
This  method  is  explained  in  Section  4.10  of  Reference  A.  When  w{})  is 
symmetrical  about/,  it  is  found  that 

"  The  form  which  we  shall  use  is  given  by  equation  (2.1-5)  of  Reference  A. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  139 

0102    =    Q2   +   Q4   +   3^6   +    •  •  • 
. 72      

Q(r)  =  0[02  =   -  T^  ^1^2  (7.3) 

(IT- 

=  -  J  -  |i  (??"  +  «")  -  |e  (/«"  +  2«'^«)  +  •  •  • 

From  the  exact  expression  for  12 (r)  obtained  below  it  is  seen  that  the  last 
equation  in  (7.3)  is  really  asymptotic  in  character  and  the  series  does  not 
converge.     We  infer  that  this  is  also  true  for  the  first  equation  of  (7.3). 

We  shall  now  obtain  the  exact  expression  for  the  correlation  function  12(t) 
of  0'{t)  when  fq  is  at  the  center  of  a  symmetrical  band  of  noise.  At  first  sight 
it  would  appear  that  the  easiest  procedure  is  to  calculate  the  correlation 
function  for  0(t)  and  then  obtain  12(r)  by  differentiating  twice.  However, 
difficulties  present  themselves  in  getting  0  outside  the  range  —  tt,  tt  since  ^ 
enters  the  expressions  only  as  the  argument  of  trigonometrical  functions. 
Because  I  could  not  see  any  way  to  overcome  this  difficulty  I  was  forced  to 
deal  with  0'  directly.  Unfortunately  this  increases  the  complexity  since 
now  the  distribution  of  the  time  derivatives  of  Ic  and  Is  also  must  be  con- 
sidered. 


We  have 


sec'^  =  1  + 


\Q  +  J 


,,    _     (Q   +   Ic)i:    -    IsK    ^    (Q    +   Ic)l's    -    Isl'c 

sec2  e(Q  +  icY         (Q  +  icY  +  n 


(7.4) 


and  the  value  of  0'{t)0'{t  +  r)  is  the  eight-fold  integral 

Q(t)     =    f  dh,    "•     J  dIs2p{IcU    -'-    ,  Is2) 

{Q  +   Icl)l'sl    -    IsJcl    ^    (Q   +    Ic2)ls2    -    Is2lc2 

(Q  +  iciY  +  III  (Q  +  ic^y  +  ih 

where  p{I c\,  '  •  •  ,  l's2)  is  an  eight-dimensional  normal  probabiUty  density. 
As  before,  the  subscripts  1  and  2  refer  to  times  /  and  /  +  r,  respectively. 
The  most  direct  way  of  evaluating  the  integral  (7.4)  is  to  insert  the  expres- 
sion for  ^(/ci,  •  •  •  ,  1^2)  and  then  proceed  with  the  integration.  Indeed, 
this  method  was  used  the  first  time  the  integral  (7.4)  was  evaluated.  Later 
it  was  found  that  the  algebra  could  be  simplified  by  representing  p{I c\,  •  •  •  , 
Is2)  as  the  Fourier  transform  of  its  characteristic  function.  The  second 
procedure  will  be  followed  here. 


140  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  characteristic  function  for  I  cu  ^c2,  I  si,  Is2,  Id,  hi,  I  si,  Is2  is,  from 
(A2-2)  and  (A2-3)  of  Appendix  II  and  Section  2.9  of  Reference  A, 

ave.  exp  i[zil ci  +  22/02  +  23/*  1  +  24/^2  +  25/ci  +  25/02  +  27/si  +  28/52] 

=   exp  (-    §)   [bo{z\  +  22  +  23  +  24)   +   ^>2(25  +  26  +  2?  +   zl) 

-\-2bi{ZiZi  +  Z228  —   2325  —   2426)  (7.5) 

+  2g{ZiZ2  +   2324)   +   2g'(SiZ6  -    2225  +   2328  -    242?) 
—  2g"(Z626  +   2728)   +   2h{ziZA  —   Z2  23) 

-\-2h'(ziZ8  +  S227  —  23Z6  —  2425)  —  2h'^{z5Zs  —  z^zj)]. 

Since  we  have  included  bi,  h,  h' ,  h"  this  holds  when/g  is  not  necessarily  at 
the  center  of  the  noise  band.  However,  henceforth  we  return  to  our  assump- 
tion that  fq  is  placed  at  the  center  of  a  symmetrical  noise  band  and  take 
ii,  h,  h' ,  h"  to  be  zero. 

The  probability  density  oi  Id,  •  •  •  Is2  which  is  to  be  placed  in  (7.4)  is 
the  eight-fold  integral 

dzi  •  '  •    /       dzs 

J-co  (7.5) 

exp  [—izilci—   •  •  •   —  izdU  X  [ch.f.] 

where  "ch.f."  denotes  the  characteristic  function  obtained  by  setting  bi, 
hj  h',  h"  equal  to  zero  on  the  right  hand  side  of  (7.5). 
The  integral  (7.4)  for  12(r)  may  be  written  as 

12(t)  =  /i  -  /2  -  /3  +  /4  (7.7) 

where  Ji  is  the  16-fold  integral 

+00  f,  +00  /.  +00 

dzs 


/-rw  /•-t-oo  /.-1-00  /.- 

did"-  dl[^{2TV  dz,--- 

00  »'— 00  «/— 00  •/— ( 


exp  [-izilci  -   .  •  .  -  izsl's2]  (7.8) 

(Q  +   Icl){Q  +   1 02)  In  1^2 


X  [ch.f.] 


m  +  iciY  +  ihm  +  ic2y  +  /a 

and  /2,  J  I,  Ji  are  obtained  from  Ji  by  replacing  the  product  (Q  +  Id) 

(Q  +  /e2)/:i/:2  by  (Q  +  id)idiX2,  Isjuq  +  /c2)/:2,  /.i/:i/.2/:2 

respectively. 

The  integration  with  respect  to  /ci  and  /«i  in  (7.8)  may  be  performed  at 
once.     We  replace  (>  +  /  e  i  and  I  dhy  x  and  y,  respectively,  and  use 

[      dx  [      dy  _£_  e-"'-»f "  =  Z^.  (7.9) 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  141 

The  integration  with  respect  to  Ic2  and  Is2  may  be  performed  in  a  similar 
manner.     In  this  way  we  obtain  a  12-fold  integral. 

The  integrations  with  respect  to  the  /"s  may  be  performed  by  using 


;i-  dl  e-'"f{z)  dz  =  /(O) 

ZTT  J—aa  J—oo 

Ztt  j-oo  J-<»  {_  az  J«= 


(7.10) 


The  result  is  the  four-fold  integral 

^-00  J-oo  (Zi    +  23)  (Z2  +  Z4)  (7.11) 

exp  [-(6o/2)(z?  +  zl  +  Z3  +  zl)  —  g{ziZ2  +  ZzZi)  +  iQ{zi  +  Z2)]. 

In  the  same  way  J2,  J3,  J4  may  be  reduced  to  the  integrals  obtained  from 

(7.11)  by  replacing  ZiZ2(g''  -  g'^Z3Z4)  by  -gVizl,  -g\lzl  and  232,4(5"  - 
—  g'^Zi22),  respectively.  When  the  /'s  are  combined  in  accordance  with 
(7.7)  we  obtain  an  integral  which  may  be  obtained  from  (7.11)  by  replacing 
2iZ2(g"  -  ^'^2324)  by 

g'[{ZiZ2  +  Z324)  +  g'KZlZi  -    Z2ZzY  (7.12) 

The  terms  zl  +  Z3  and  Z2  +  zl  in  the  denominator  may  be  represented  as 
infinite  integrals.     Interchanging  the  order  of  integration  and  expressing 

(7.12)  in  terms  of  partial  derivatives  of  an  exponential  function  leads  to  the 
six-fold  integral 

.(.)  =  (4^)-^P-f  ^{-4+/%4j^^j_>2...7_;".. 

exp  [- (^^0  +  u){zl  +  23')/2  -  (^^0  +  ^0(22  +  z^)/2  ^^'^^^ 

—  g{ziZ2  +  Z3Z4)  —  q;(ziZ4  -  Z2Z3)  +  iQ(zi  +  22)] 

where  the  subscript  a  =  0  indicates  that  a  is  to  be  set  equal  to  zero  after 
the  differentiations  are  performed. 
When  the  four-fold  integral  in  the  z's  is  evaluated  (7.13)  becomes 


««= f.«f ..[-,"  4 +/^£L 


^  exp  [-Q\2b„  -  2g  +  u  +  v)/(2D)]    (7.14) 


=   [    du  (    dviif-  -  gg")(2  -2F+  Q'/g)  -  «"QVg]«~7(4DS) 

JO  JO 


142  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where 


2  7:1  ^2> 


Z>  =  (^0  +  u){b,  ^-v)-  g   -  a%        F  =  Q\2bo  -  2g  +  u  +  v)/{2D,) 

and  Dq  denotes  the  value  of  D  obtained  by  setting  a  =  Q.  When  differen- 
tiating with  respect  to  a  it  is  helpful  to  note  that 

da"  ^    ^    \daj         -^   ^    ^  da' 

and  that  only/'(^)  =  df/dD  need  be  obtained  since  dD/da  vanishes  when 
a  =  0. 

In  order  to  reduce  the  double  integral  to  a  single  integral  we  make  the 
change  of  variables 

.  =  e^(i„  +  u  -  g)/(2A)  -  ,,,,^l^t^|/"/     ,, 

21(60  +  u){bQ  +  V)  —  g-\ 

s  =  Q\bo-\-v-  g)/(2Do),  F  =  r+s  ^^'^^^ 

d(r,  s)/d{u,  v)  =  -rs/Do,        4srDo  =  Q^Q'  -  2g(r  +  s)] 

The  limits  of  integration  for  r  and  ^  are  obtained  by  noting  that  the  points 
(0,  0),  (c«,  0),  («>,  ^),  (0,  ^)  in  the  {u,  v)  plane  go  into  {Q^/{2bG  +  2g), 
W(2bo  +  2g)),  {Q'/{2bo),  0),  (0,  0)  (0,  (3V(2&o)),  respectively,  in  the  (r,  s) 
plane.  It  may  be  verified  that  the  region  of  integration  in  the  (r,  s)  plane 
is  the  interior  of  the  quadrilateral  obtained  by  joining  the  above  points  by 
straight  lines.     Equation  (7.14)  may  now  be  written  as 

'{s"-gg")(2-2r-2s  +  Q'/g)-g"Q'/i 


a(x)=// 


QW  -  2g{r  +  s)] 


-r— s 


drds 


2g2      y^      2g^  ^' 


(7.16) 


where  y\  and  yi  are  the  dimensionless  quantities 

2g-(2-2r^2.  +  QVg)^^_.^^^^ 
Q2[Q2  _  2g{r  +  s)\ 

2gg~'~'  dr  ds 
►2  -  2g(r  +  s) 
It  is  seen  that 


'.=// 
'-// 


yi  =  2gC>-2  \y2+  If  e-"--'  dr  ds\ .  (7.17) 

Since  the  integrands  are  functions  oi  r  -\-  s  alone  we  are  led  to  apply  the 
transformation 

//  /(^  +  ^)  ''•'  ''*  =  [  «/(«)  ''^  +  £'  -^^^  /(»)  ''^  (7.18) 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  143 

where  .4  is  the  area  enclosed  by  the  quadrilateral  whose  vertices  are  at  the 
points  (r,  s)  given  by  (0,  0),  (0,  a),  (/3,  /3),  (a,  0)  and  it  is  assumed  that  /S  and 
a  are  positive,  w  is  a  new  variable  and  is  not  the  one  introduced  in  (7.13). 
Setting  a  =  QV{2bo)  and  ^  =  QVi^h  +  2g),  using  (7.18),  and  introduc- 
ing the  notation 


(7.19) 


p  =  Q7(2W, 

k  =  g/bo 

^  =  QV(2g)  =  p/k, 

bo  +  g       1+k 

permits  us  to  write 

[  [  e~'~'  dr  ds  =    r  ue~ 

A 

Jp      X  -  p 

-  1  _    ^«"'   +   P""' 
X  —  p       X  —  p 

and  (7.17)  yields 

p            1   +  ^     -2p/(l+fc) 
k                     1-k 

(7.20) 


(7.21) 

.    —    /? 

where  we  have  expressed  X  in  terms  of  p  and  ^. 

The  double  integral  defining  y2  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as  (7.20) : 

p(X  —  ■M)e~""  du 
y%-   '  '  -    • 


^  r  r  e~'-^'  dr  ds  ^   r  ue-^  du       r  p(X  -  u)e-"' 

J  J   ^  —  r  —  s       Jo     ^  —  u        Jp    (\  —  p)(^  — 


Writing  u=  ^  —  (^  —  u)  and  X  —  2/  =  X  —  ^  +  (^  —  w)  in  the  two  numera- 
tors leads  to 


J  p    ^  —  u        \  —  p  J  p 


(7.22) 


e 


du 


where  we  have  used  p(X  —  ^)/(X  —  p)  =  —  ^  to  simplify  the  coefficient  of 
the  third  integral.  When  the  second  and  fourth  integrals  are  evaluated, 
their  contribution  to  y2  is  found  to  be  equal  to  the  terms  independent  of  y  i 
on  the  right  of  (7.21).  Hence,  comparison  of  equations  (7.21)  and  (7.22) 
shows  that 

Jo    ^  —  U        Jp    ^  —  u 


144  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  integrals  in  (7.23)  may  be  evaluated  in  terms  of  the  exponential  inte- 
gral Ei{x)  defined  by,  for  x  real, 

/x  00  n 

e'  dt/t  =  C  +  i  loge  x'  +  Z  -^ 
00  n=i  n\n 


n=0 


where  C  —  .S11  •  •  •  is  Euler's  constant  and  Cauchy's  principal  value  of  the 
integral  is  to  be  taken  when  a:  >  0.     We  set  /  =  ^  —  w  and  obtain 


Ud  +^)J 


yi  =  e-""  iEi[p/k\  -  2Ei[p{\  -  k)/k]  +  Ei 

where  we  have  again  expressed  ^  and  X  in  terms  of  p  and  k. 

A  power  series  for  yi  which  converges  when  —1/3  <  ^  <  1  may  be  ob- 
tained by  expanding  the  denominators  of  the  integrands  in  (7.23)  in  powers 
of  m/^  and  integrating  termwise: 

yi  =  r^i  -  2^-"  +  e-'] 

+  1  !r'[l  -  2(1  +  p/1 1)^-"  +  (1  +  X/1 !).-']  (7.24) 

+  2!r'[l  -  2(1  +  p/1!  +  p'me-'  +  (1  +  X/1!  +  XV2!)e-'] 
+  ... 
The  following  special  values  may  be  obtained  from  the  equation  given 
above.     When  p  =  0 

yi  =  -loge  (1  -  k^) 

(7.25) 
y2=  0 

Thisresult  may  also  be  obtained  by  evaluating  the  integral  obtained  when 
we  set  C  =  0,  2i  =  ri  cos  di,  Z3  =  ^i  sin  ^1,  z^  =  ^2  cos  62,  Zi  =  ^2  sin  di 
in  (7.11)  and  (7.12). 
Near^  =  1, 

yi  -  e-'[Ei{p)  -C-  loge  p(l  -  ¥)] 

3^2  -  pyi  -  1  +  (1  +  p)e"'' 


(7.26) 


Near  k  =  0, 

yi  «  ^(1  -  e-'f/p,  y2  -  yi  (7.27) 

except  when  p  =  0  in  which  case  yi  is  approximately  k^. 
When  p  is  large 

^^  n  ^      n2      ^      n3      ^       „4      ^ 


P  P'  P*  p' 

^  p  p2 


(7.28) 


except  near  k  =  1  where  both  yi  and  yz  have  logarithmic  infinities.    The 
asymptotic  expansion  (7.3)  for  12(t),  which  was  obtained  by  the  first  method 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE 


145 


of  this  section,  may  be  checked  by  inserting  (7.28)  in  the  expression  (7.16) 
for  fi(r)  in  terms  of  yi  and  y2. 

Values  of  yi  and  yo  tabulated  as  functions  of  k  for  various  values  of  p  are 
given  in  Table  3.     Negative  values  of  k  have  not  been  considered  since  they 

Table  3 

Values  of  yi  and  yz  Used  in  Computation  of  Correlation  Function  of  dd/dt 

n(r)    =   d'{t)d'it  +  r)    =    [g'^(y,   -   y,)    -   gi''y,]/(2g^) 


g  =  gir) 


-i 


w(f)  cos  Irrif  -  f,)r  df,     k  =  g(r)/g(0) 


Values  of  yi 

Values  of  y2 

k 

p 

P 

0 

.5 

1 

2 

5 

.5 

1 

2 

5 

0 

.1 

.2 
.3 

0 
.01005 
.04082 
.09431 

0 
.03526 
.08043 
.1379 

0 
.04224 
.09003 
.1452 

0 
.03854 
.07979 
.1246 

0 
.02000 
.04105 
.06292 

0 
.03171 
.06550 
.1022 

0 
.04147 
.08654 
.1363 

0 
.03936 
.08275 
.1315 

0 
.02051 
.04283 
.06702 

.4 
.5 
.6 
.7 

.1744 
.2877 
.4463 
.6733 

.2110 
.3056 
.4278 
.5953 

.2102 
.2886 
.3860 
.5129 

.1740 
.2296 
.2942 
.3721 

.08586 
.1101 
.1358 
.1636 

.1432 
.1914 
.2481 
.3220 

.1926 
.2579 
.3368 
.4379 

.1870 
.2515 
.3289 
.4269 

.09384 
.1238 
.1576 
.1975 

.8 
,84 
.88 
.90 

1.0216 
1.2228 
1.4890 
1.6607 

.8416 

.9798 

1 . 1590 

1.2742 

.6914 
.7888 
.9127 
.9898 

.4729 
.5242 
.5866 
.6241 

.1941 
.2075 
.2219 
.2296 

.4275 
.4866 
.5641 
.6138 

.5803 
.6593 
.7619 
.8260 

.5602 
.6318 
.7226 

.7752 

.2461 
.2693 
.2964 
.3114 

.92 
.94 
.96 
.97 

1.8734 
2.1507 
2.5459 
2.8285 

1.4144 
1.5948 
1.8486 
2.0251 

1.0834 
1.2024 
1.3668 
1.4815 

.6686 
.7217 
.7939 
.8414 

.2378 
.2466 
.2566 
.2623 

.6753 
.7550 
.8711 
.9474 

.9058 
1.0093 
1.1558 
1.2605 

.8486 

.9333 

1.0546 

1 . 1366 

.3294 
.3498 

.3752 
.3849 

.98 
.99 
.995 
.997 

3.2289 
3.9170 
4.6072 
5.1175 

2.2762 
2.7080 
3.1341 
3.4445 

1.6405 
1.9066 
2.1721 
2.3622 

.9073 
1.0127 
1.1125 
1.1866 

.2690 
.2778 
.2846 
.2889 

1.0704 

1.2773 
1.4838 
1.6367 

1.4081 
1.6610 
1.9175 
2.1048 

1.2548 
1.4505 
1.6416 
1.7859 

.4119 
.4429 
.4705 
.4893 

are  not  required  for  the  case  in  which  In  has  a  normal  law  power  spectrum, 
the  case  discussed  in  the  next  section. 

8.  Power  Spectrum  of  —  When  I^  has  Normal  Law  Power  Spectrum 
dt 

The  problem  of  computing  the  power  spectrum  W(f)  of  d'{t)  appears  to 
be  a  difficult  one.*  In  order  to  obtain  an  answer  without  an  excessive  amount 
of  work  we  have  had  to  do  two  things  which  are  rather  restrictive.  First, 
we  confine  our  attention  to  the  case  in  which  the  power  spectrum  w{f)  of 

*Since  the  above  was  written  the  general  f .  m.  problem  has  been  studied  by  D.  Middle- 
ton.  He  generalizes  our  (7.11)  and  (7.12),  introduces  polar  coordinates,  expands  the 
integrand  in  powers  of  g,  and  integrates  termwise.  W(f)  then  follows  somewhat  as  in 
a.m.  theory. 


146  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Is  is  of  the  normal  law  type  (our  method  could  be  applied  to  other  types 
but  ^  and  g"  would  be  more  complicated  functions  of  r  and  Table  3  would 
have  to  be  extended  to  negative  values  of  ^,  if  they  should  occur).  Second, 
we  resort  to  numerical  integration  to  obtain  a  portion  of  W{J).  Because 
of  the  second  item  our  results  are  either  tabulated  or  are  given  as  curves, 
shown  in  Figs.  8  and  9,  except  when  Q  =  0  (noise  only)  in  which  case  the 
power  spectrum  of  B'  is  given  by  the  series  (8.7). 
The  power  spectrum  of  In  is  assumed  to  be 

^(/)  =  ^^  .-</-A'^'<-^)  (8.1) 

The  mean  square  value  of  In  is  equal  to  that  of  a  noise  current  whose  power 
spectrum  has  the  constant  value  of  ^o/(o'a/2x)  over  a  band  of  width /&  —  fa 
=  o-\/27r  =  0-2.507.  The  value  of  w{j)  is  one  quarter  of  its  mid-band  value 
at  the  points/  —  fq  =  zhay/l  loge  4  =  ±0-1.665  (the  6  db  points)  and  the 
distance  between  these  points  is  ?>3?>()(j.  Integration  of  (8.1)  shows  that  the 
mean  square  value  of  In  is  xf/o  in  accordance  with  our  customary  notation. 
The  mid-band  value  of  w{f)  is  4^o/(or\/2w). 

Assuming  fq^  a  and  evaluating  the  integrals  (A2-1)  of  Appendix  II 
defining  bo  and  g  gives 

Oq  =  ^0,        g  =  \f/oe  =  \poe 

g'/g  =  -uu'  =  -iTau,  g^g  =  -(27r(r)'(l  -  u')  ^^  2) 

-^ =  -  (2to-)  ,  k  =  g/bo  =  e 

s 

where  we  have  set 

u  =  Ittct,  li'  =  lira  (S.3) 

and  the  primes  on  g  and  u  denote  differentiation  with  respect  to  r.  The  cor- 
relation function  is  accordingly,  from  (7.16). 

12(r)  =  27rV2(yi  -  u^y^)  (8.4) 

If  6\t)  be  regarded  as  a  noise  current  its  power  spectrum  is 


W{f)  =  4   f    12(r)  cos  lirfr  dr 
Jo 


(8.5) 


When  noise  alone  is  present,  p  is  zero  and  (7.25)  yields 

fi(r)  =  -27rV2  log.  (1  -  k^)  =  -27rV  log,  (1  -  e""')  (8.6) 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE  147 

In  this  case  the  power  spectrum  is,  from  (8.3),  (8.5),  and  (8.6), 

Wn{J)  =  -47ro-   f    cos{uf/o)  log  (1  -  e~"')  du 


(8.7) 

3/2^-/2/ (4n(r2) 


o        3/2    Y^ 

IcTTT      Z^  n      e 


the  series  being  obtained  by  expanding  the  logarithm  and  integrating  term- 
wise.  When  this  equation  was  used  for  computation  it  was  found  conven- 
ient to  apply  the  Euler  summation  formula  to  sum  the  terms  in  the  series 
beyond  the  (N  —  l)st.     Writing  b  for/V(4o-2),  the  series  in  (8.7)  becomes 


{N  -  1)- 


-3/2^-6/ (iV-l) 


+  {./bY"-  erf  [(b/A0"1  +  N-'^^-"'"  [l  -  J^  (-  ^  +  *) 
?_  (^_  12?    1    1_5_5  ^  _  21  ^        i^\  1 


(8.8) 


When  h  is  zero  the  sum^^  of  the  series  is  2.61237  •  •  •  .  The  values  for  p  =  0 
in  Table  4  were  computed  by  taking  iY  =  12  in  (8.8).  As  6  ^  co  the  domi- 
nant term  in  (8.8)  is  seen  to  be  the  one  containing  erf  (choose  iV  so  that 
h  =  N^^^).     Hence  as/— >  =0 

^iv(/) '-' 47rVV/.       ^  (8.9) 

When  both  noise  and  the  sine  wave  are  present  it  is  convenient  to  split  the 
power  spectrum  into  three  parts.  The  first  part,  Wi{f),  is  proportional  to 
PFjv(/),  the  power  spectrum  with  noise  alone.  The  second  part  W2(f)  is 
proportional  to  the  form  W(f)  assumes  when  rms  /,v  <C  Q  and  the  third 
part  W-s{f)  is  of  the  nature  of  a  correction  term.  This  procedure  is  suggested 
when  we  subtract  the  leading  terms  in  the  expressions  (7.26)  and  (7.27) 
(corresponding  to  ^  =  1  and  k  =  0,  respectively)  from  yi.  Likewise  we 
subtract  the  leading  term  in  ^2,  (7.27),  at  ^  =  0  but  do  not  bother  to  do  so 
at  the  end  k  =  1  because  u^y2  approaches  zero  there.     We  therefore  write 


yi  -  u'y2  =  bi  +  ^""log  (1  -  k')  -  Kl  -  e-y/p  -  u'y2 
+  u^Kl  -  e-'Y/p]  -e-'  log  (1  -  k^)  +  (1  -  ^2)^(1  -  e-y/p 

=  Z{u)  -  e-  log  (1  -  k')  -  ^.^li^^  (1  -  e-^f 

OqP 

1^  "Theory  and  Application  of  Infinite  Series,"  Knopp,  (1928),  page  561. 


(8.10) 


14S 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


where  Z{u)  denotes  the  function  enclosed  by  the  brackets  in  the  first  equa- 
tion and  the  expressions  for  g"/g  and  ^  in  (8.2)  have  been  used  in  the  replace- 
ment of  (1  —  u^)k. 

Table  4 
Values  of  PF3(/)/(47rV) 


p  =  0 

0.5 

1.0 

2.0 

5.0 

0 

1 

2 

0 
0 
0 

-.03517 
-.03003 
-.01717 

-.03891 
-.03196 
-.01486 

-.02444 
-.01830 
-.003304 

-.001948 

-.001814 

.004052 

3 
4 
6 

0 
0 
0 

-.002436 
.008757 
.01478 

.004014 

.01730 

.02157 

.01252 
.02244 
.02167 

.008225 

.01027 

.007665 

8 
10 
12 

0 
0 
0 

.01018 

.005768 

.004027 

.01366 

.007378 

.004463 

.01237 

.006201 

.003552 

.003505 
.001437 
.0006439 

Values  of  PF(/)/(47rV 

) 

0 

1 
2 

.7369 
.7098 
.6439 

.4118 
.4294 
.4516 

.2322 
.2672 
.3231 

.07529 

.1134 

.1784 

.003017 
. 02342 
.05828 

3 
4 
6 

.5542 
.4623 
.3195 

.4225 
.3496 
.2178 

.3225 
.2654 
.1508 

.1947 
.1580 
.07554 

.06852 
.01590 
.01540 

8 
10 
12 

.2390 
.1908 
.1595 

.1553 
.1215 
.1003 

.1019 

.07768 

.06306 

.04506 
.03206 
.02511 

.005325 
.002726 
.001719 

Inserting  (8.10)  in  the  expression  (8.4)  for  Q,{t)  and  taking  the  Fourier 
transform  (8.5)  leads  to 


_  .-''^2 


__  (1  -  O 


.2^ 


-/2/(2<r2) 


P  cr\/27r 


W6(f)  =  4Ta   f    Z(u)  cos  (uf/a)  du 


(8.11) 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE 


149 


In  these  equations  T^iv(/)  is  obtained  from  (8.7),  and  W2(f)  by  two-fold 
integration  by  parts  to  reduce  g"  to  g  then  evaluating  the  integral  obtained 


0.70 


0.65 


0.60 


0.55 


0.50 


0.45 


0.35 


0.30 


0.25 


0.15 


0.05 


Fig.  8 — Power  spectrum  of  dO/dt. 
Power  spectrum  of  /at  is  assumed  to  be 

U<rV2^r'  exp  [  -  (/  -  A)V(2a^)]. 

In  this  expression /is  a  frequency  near/,  .  The/  in  W(J)  and  in  the  abscissa  is  a  much 
lower  frequency.  W(f)  =  power  spectrum  of  6'  =  dd/dt,  d'  being  regarded  as  a  random 
noise  current.     Dimensions  of  W(f)df  same  as  (dd/dty  or  (radians)Vs€c.2. 

by  substituting  the  expression  (8.2)  for  g.  That  W(f)  approaches  Wzif) 
as  p  — >  =c  follows  when  expression  (8.11)  for  W2if)  is  compared  with  the 
limiting  form  (8.13)  given  below. 


150 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Instead  of  dealing  with  W(f)  it  is  more  convenient  to  deal  with  (47rV)~^ 
W(f)  which  is  the  sum  of  the  three  components 


2\/Tr  n=l 


-3/2^-/2/ (4n«r2) 


(47rV)-V2(/) 


(1  -  e-f>y  (f 


•V27r 


?'e)"--"- 


(8.12) 


(4: 


1    r°° 

■'oT'W^Xf)  =  -   /     Z{u)  cos  (m//(7)  du 
X  Jo 


0.08 


0.07 


0.06 


0.05 


0-04 


0.03 


0.02 


0.01 


C\ 

\ 

1 

Y 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V- EXACT  FORM 
\     FOR  p=5 

ll 

5 

,   LIMITING  FORM 
WITH  p  =5 

\ 

K 

/ 

le-DECIBEL 
1  POINT 

V, 

^^ 

1 

. 

— O 

o 

f/o- 
Fig.  9— Approach  of  H^(/)  to  limiting  form. 
As  p  ->  00 ,  W{f)  ->  4xV  (p V2^)-i  (//<r)2  exp  [  -  P/{2a'')]. 

The  integral  involving  Z{u)  has  been  computed  by  Simpson's  rule,  yi  and 
y2  being  obtained  from  Table  3,  with  the  results  shown  in  the  first  section 
of  Table  4.  The  value  of  Wiij)  may  be  computed  directly,  and  lFi(/)  may 
be  obtained  from  Wsif).  The  values  of  these  two  functions  together  with 
those  of  Wz  (J)  enable  us  to  compute  the  values  of  (47rV)-ilF(/')  given  in 
Table  4  and  plotted  in  Fig.  8. 

Since,  as  is  shown  by  (8.9),  Wn{J)  varies  as  1//  for  large  values  of/,  the 
areas  under  the  curves  of  Fig.  8  become  infinite.  This  agrees  with  the  fact 
that  the  mean  square  value  of  0'  is  infinite. 

The  values  of  (4irV)-' 14^(0)  for  p  equal  to  0,  .5,  1,  2,  and  5  are  .7369,  4118, 
2322,  .07529,  and  .003017  respectively.    When  these  values  are  plotted  on 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WA  VE  PLUS  NOISE  151 

semi-log  paper  they  tend  to  lie  on  a  straight  line  whose  slope  suggests  that 
W{0)  decreases  as  e^''  when  p  becomes  large. 

The  limiting  form  assumed  by  W(J)  as  p  — >  oo  is  given  by  equation  (7.2). 
When  the  normal  law  expression  (8.1)  assumed  in  this  section  for  the  power 
spectrum  of  In  is  put  in  (7.2)  we  find  that 


47rV 


^(/)-e7^({y^"'^^'^^^  (8.13) 


Fig.  9  shows  that  for  p  =  5  the  limiting  form  (8.13)  agrees  quite  well  with 
the  exact  form  computed  above. 

Both  (7.2)  and  (8.13)  show  that,  for  small  values  of/,  the  power  spectrum 
of  6'  varies  as/^  when  p  >  >  1.  This  is  in  accord  with  Crosby's*  result 
that  the  voltage  spectrum  of  the  random  noise  in  the  output  of  a  frequency 
modulation  receiver  is  triangular  when  the  carrier  to  noise  ratio  is  large. 
When  this  ratio  becomes  small  he  finds  that  the  spectrum  becomes  rec- 
tangular. Fig.  8  shows  this  effect  in  that  the  areas  under  the  curves  between 
the  ordinates  at/  =  0  and/  =  Xc  (where  X  is  some  number,  generally  less 
than  unity,  depending  on  the  ratio  of  the  widths  of  the  i.f.  and  audio  bands) 
become  rectangles,  approximately,  as  p  decreases. 


APPENDIX  I 
The  Integral  le  (k,  x) 


The  integraP^ 


Ie(k,x)  =    r  e-''Io{ku)du,  (AM) 

Jo 


where  Io{ku)  denotes  the  Bessel  function  of  imaginary  argument  and  order 
zero,  occurs  in  Sections  2  and  6.     The  following  special  cases  are  of  interest. 

Ie{0,  x)    =  1  -  e-'^  « 

Ie{l,  x)    =  xe--[Io{x)  +  Ii{x)]  (Al-2) 

The  second  of  these  relations  is  due  to  Bennett.^'^ 

*  M.  G.  Crosby, "  Frequency  Modulation  Noise  Characteristics,"  Proc.  I.  R.  E.  Vol.  25 
(1937),  472-514.  See  also  J.  R.  Carson  and  T.  C.  Fry,  "Variable  Electric  Circuit  Theory 
with  Application  to  the  Theory  of  Frequency  Modulation,"  B. S.T.J.  Vol.  16  (1937), 
513-540. 

1®  The  notation  was  chosen  to  agree  with  that  used  by  Bateman  and  Archibald  (Guide 
to  Tables  of  Bessel  Functions  appearing  in  "Math.  Tables  and  Aids  to  Comp.",  Vol.  1 
(1944)  pp.  205-308)  to  discuss  integrals  used  by  Schwarz  (page  248). 

^^  it  is  given  in  equation  (62)  of  the  reference  cited  in  connection  with  our  equation 
(1.2)  in  Section  ]. 


152 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


The  values  in  the  table  given  below  were  computed  by  Simpson's  rule  for 
numerical  integration.     The  work  was  checked  at  several  points  by  using 

Ie{k,x)=  t(k/2r^^A„ 


ni 


I  W.I 


where 


r-  2  2n    -J 


When  X  is  so  large  that  Ie{k,  x)  is  nearly  equal  to  Ie(k,  oo )  we  have 


Ie{k,  x)  -  (1  -  kY'"  -  [2)^(1  -  k)r"\2/VT)  f 

J  t 


dt 


where  /i  =  ^/^(l  —  k).    However,  this  was  not  found  to  be  especially  useful 
in  checking  the  values  given  in  the  table. 


Table  of  Ie{k,  x) 


e-^'hiku)  du 


X 

k 

0 

.2 

.4 

.6 

.8 

.9 

1.0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

.2 

.1813 

.1813 

.1814 

.1815 

.1816 

.1818 

.4 

.3297 

.3298 

.3303 

.3311 

.3322 

.3337 

.6 

.4512 

.4517 

.4530 

.4554 

.4586 

.4629 

.8 

.5507 

.5516 

.5545 

.5593 

.5661 

.5749 

1.0 

.6321 

.6337 

.6386 

.6468 

.6584 

.6736 

.2 

.6988 

.7012 

.7086 

.7209 

.7386 

.7620 

.4 

.7534 

.7567 

.7669 

.7841 

.8089 

.8422 

.6 

.7981 

.8025 

.8157 

.8383 

.8712 

.9157 

.8 

.8347 

.8401 

.8566 

.8850 

.9267 

.9839 

2.0 

.8647 

.8712 

.8910 

.9255 

.9766 

1.0476 

.2 

.8892 

.8968 

.9201 

.9607 

1.0217 

1.1075 

.4 

.9093 

.9179 

.9446 

.9916 

1.0627 

1.1642 

.6 

.9257 

.9354 

.9655 

1.0186 

1.1001 

1.2183 

.8 

.9392 

.9499 

.9831 

1.0424 

1.1345 

1.2699 

3.0 

.9502 

.9618 

.9982 

1.0635 

1.1661 

1.3195 

.2 

.9592 

.9718 

1.0110 

1.0822 

1.1953 

1.3672 

.4 

.9666 

.9800 

1.0220 

1.0988 

1.2223 

1.4132 

.6 

.9727 

.9868 

1.0314 

1.1136 

1.2475 

1.4578 

.8 

.9776 

.9925 

1.0394 

1.12^8 

1 . 2708 

1.5010 

4.0 

.9817 

.9971 

1.0463 

1.1386 

1.2926 

1.5430 

.2 

.9830 

l.OOJO 

1.0522 

1.1492 

1.3130 

1.5839 

.4 

.9877 

1.0043 

1.0574 

1.1587 

1.3320 

1.6237 

.6 

.9899 

1.0070 

1.0619 

1.1672 

1.3499 

1.6625 

.8 

.9918 

1.0092 

1 .0657 

1.1749 

1.3666 

1.7005 

5.0 

.9933 

1.0111 

1.0690 

1.1818 

1.3823 

1.7376 

5.4 

.9955 

1.0140 

1 .0743 

1.1937 

1.4110 

1.8095 

PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE 


153 


Table — Continued 


X 

k 

0 

.2 

.4 

.6 

.8 

.9 

1.0 

5.8 

.9970 

1.0160 

1.0783 

1.2034 

1.4364 

1.8786 

6.2 

.9980 

1.0174 

1.0814 

1.2114 

1.4590 

1.9452 

6.6 

.9986 

1.0183 

1.0837 

1.2180 

1.4792 

2.0097 

7.0 

.9991 

1.0190 

1.0854 

1.2234 

1.4972 

2.0722 

7.4 

.9994 

1.0195 

1.0867 

1.2278 

1.5134 

2.1328 

7.8 

.9996 

1.0198 

1.0876 

1.2375 

1.5279 

2.1917 

8.2 

.9997 

1.0201 

1.0885 

1.2346 

1.5409 

2.2491 

8.6 

.9998 

1.0202 

1.0891 

1.2371 

1.5526 

2.3050 

9.0 

.9999 

1.0203 

1.0896 

1.2393 

1.5631 

2.3597 

10.0 

1.0000 

1.0205 

1.0902 

1.2431 

1.5852 

1.9207 

2.4910 

11.0 

1.0000 

1.0206 

1.0907 

1.2456 

1.6024 

1.9668 

2.6157 

12.0 

1.0000 

1.0206 

1.0909 

1.2471 

1.6158 

2.0066 

2.7347 

13.0 

1.0000 

1.0206 

1.0910 

1.2482 

1.6263 

2.0411 

2.8487 

14.0 

1.0000 

1.0206 

1.0910 

1.2488 

1.6346 

2.0711 

2.9584 

15.0 

1.0000 

1.0206 

1.0911 

1.2492 

1.6412 

2.0973 

3.0641 

00 

1.0000 

1.0206 

1.0911 

1.2500 

1.6667 

2.2942 

00 

X 

k 

.86 

.90 

.96 

1.0 

15.0 

1.8773 

2.0973 

2.5810 

3.0641 

16.0 

•  1.8899 

2.1201 

2.6371 

3.1663 

17.0 

1.9006 

2.1403 

2.6894 

3.2653 

18.0 

1.9095 

2.1579 

2.7381 

3.3614 

19.0 

1.9171 

2.1737 

2.7837 

3.4548 

20.0 

1.9235 

2.1870 

2.8263 

3.5457 

00 

1.9597 

2.2942 

3.5714 

00 

APPENDIX  II 
Second  Moments  Associated  with  Ic  and  Is 
The  in-phase  and  quadrature  components  of  the  noise  current  In 

M 

Ie(t)    =     ^Cn  COS  [(cOn  "    q)t  "   (Pn] 
n=l 

M 

Is(t)  =   ^Cn  sin  [(co„  —  q)t  —  <p„] 


(3.3) 


are  closely  related  to  the  envelope  R  and  phase  angle  6  of  the  total  current, 
this  relationship  being  being  shown  by  the  equations  (3.4)  and  (3.5).  /«(/) 
and  Is{t)  and  their  time  derivatives  may  be  regarded  as  random  variables. 
In  much  of  our  work  we  have  to  deal  with  the  probability  distribution  of 
these  random  variables.  By  virtue  of  the  representation  (3.3)  and  the 
central  limit  theorem^^  this  distribution  is  normal  in  the  several  variables. 
The  coefficients  in  the  quadratic  form  occurring  in  the  exponent  are  deter- 

"  Section  2.10  of  Reference  A. 


154 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


(A2-1) 


mined  by  the  second  moments  of  the  variables.  Here  we  state  these 
moments.  Some  of  the  moments  have  already  been  given  in  Sections  3.7 
and  3.8  of  Reference  A.  For  the  sake  of  completeness  we  shall  also  give 
them  here.  The  new  results  given  below  are  derived  in  much  the  same  way 
as  those  given  in  Reference  A. 
Let 

hn  =  {lirT   f    wif)(f-fXdf 
Jo 

^0  =    /     wif)  df  =  xf/o 
Jo 

g=    f    w{f)cos2ir{f-  fdrdf 
Jo 

h=    f    wif)  sin  2T{f-f,)Tdf 
Jo 

and  let  g',  g^\  h\  h"  denote  the  first  and  second  derivatives  of  g  and  h  with 
respect  to  r.     For  example, 

g'  =  -2t   [    w{f)(f  -  U)  sin  lirif  -  f,)r  df 
Jo 

Incidentally,  in  many  of  our  cases  w(f)  is  assumed  to  be  symmetrical  about 
fq.  This  introduces  considerable  simplification  because  bi,  bs,  65,  •  *  •  , 
A,  h',  h" ^  reduce  to  zero. 

The  following  table  gives  values  of  bnS  and  g  for  two  cases  of  frequent 
occurrence 


w{f) 
bo 

h 
g 


Ideal  band  pass  filter 
centered  on  fq 

Normal  law  filter 
centered  on  fq,  fq »  a 

woiorfa  <f<fb 
and  zero  elsewhere 

aV2^ 

Mfb  -  fa) 

rPo 

^0(/6  -  fa)V3 

47rVVo 

T^Woift-  fay/5 

487rVVo 

\l/oe 


-2CTffT)2 


{irT)-^Wo  sin  ir(fb  -  fa)r 

If  we  write  7^,  /«,  I'c  for  /c(/),  l'e{t),  l'c\t),  where  the  primes  denote  differ- 
*•  Section  2.9  of  Reference  A. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  155 

entiation  with  respect  to  /,  and  do  the  same  for  /«(/)  and  its  derivatives  we 
have,  from  Section  3.8  of  Reference  A, 

ll  =  Jl  =  bo,        lj]=0 
TJ[  =  -Tjs  =  hu        TJ'c  =  'Tj's  =  0 


./  -,// 


/7^=/y=^„,        lX  =  0  (A2-2) 

When  we  deal  with  moments  in  which  the  arguments  of  the  two  variables 
are  separated  by  an  interval  r  as  in  (see  the  last  of  equations  (3.7-11)  of 
Reference  A) 


Ic{t)Is{t  -i-r)  =  h, 


it  is  convenient  to  denote  the  argument  t  by  the  subscript  1  and  the  argu- 
ment /  +  r  by  2.     Then  our  example  becomes 


IcJsi  =  h 
We  shall  need  the  following  moments  of  this  type. 


I  cll  c2   —   I  sll  s2   —    g,  I  cll  s2   —    ~Ic2l  si   =    h 

Icllc2   =   Islls2   =    ~IclIc2   —    ~IslI  s2   —    g 


(A2-3) 


Iclls   —   I  c2lsl  —    ~IclI  s2   —    ~Ic2l  si  —    h 


rf       -rf 


Icllc2   —    Islls2   =    —g'\  Iclls2   —    —Ic2lsl   =    " /?'' 

It  should  be  remembered  that  in  these  equations  the  primes  on  the  /'s 
denote  differentiation  with  respect  to  t  while  the  primes  on  g  and  h  denote 
differentiation  with  respect  to  r. 

APPENDIX  III 
Evaluation  of  a  Multiple  Integral 

Several  multiple  integrals  encountered  during  the  preparation  of  this 
paper  were  initially  evaluated  by  the  following  procedure.  The  integral 
was  first  converted  into  a  multiple  series  by  expanding  a  portion  of  the  inte- 
grand and  integrating  termwise.  It  was  found  possible  to  sum  these  series 
when  one  of  the  factorials  in  the  denominator  was  represented  as  a  contour 
integral.  This  reduced  the  multiple  integral  to  a  contour  integral  and  some- 
times the  latter  could  be  evaluated. 


156  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

We  shall  illustrate  this  procedure  by  examining  the  integral 

I  =   f    de  \   dxx  Qx^\  -x""  +  2a  cos  6  +  2hx  sin  ^  +  c  sin'  6  (A3-1) 

Expanding  that  part  of  the  exponential  which  contains  the  trigonometrical 
terms  and  integrating  termwise  gives 

T  =T  TT    ^'^^'"^^^r(^  +  ^  +  ^) 

^n4^^w!^!(^  +  w  +  w)!r(w+  i) 
where  we  have  used 

2'"r(w+  J)«!  =  \/i(2n)! 
We  next  make  the  substitution 

{l  +  m  +  n)\       2iri  Jc  /^+-+"+i  ^       ^ 

where  the  path  of  integration  C  is  a  circle  chosen  large  enough  to  ensure  the 
convergence  of  the  series  obtained  when  the  order  of  summation  and  integra- 
tion is  changed.     The  summations  may  now  be  performed: 


2iia 


m=0 

1    c  r"'(f       rV'^ 
=  lf  ^-JL^A^  e'^^'"  dt 
2iJc     t  -  c  -h"- 

C  encloses  the  pole  at  c  +  6^  ^nd  the  branch  point  at  c  as  well  as  the  origin. 
When  a-  is  zero  the  integral  may  be  reduced  still  further.  Let  c  be  com- 
plex and  b  such  that  the  point  c  -\-  b  does  not  lie  on  the  line  joining  0  to  c. 
Deform  C  until  it  consists  of  an  isolated  loop  about  c  -\-  b^  and  a  loop  about 
0  and  c,  the  latter  consisting  of  small  circles  about  0  and  c  joined  by  two 
straight  f)ortions  running  along  the  line  joining  0  to  c.  The  contributions 
of  the  small  circles  about  0  and  c  vanish  in  the  limit.  Along  the  portion 
starting  at  0  and  running  to  c,  arg  (/  —  c)  =  —  tt  +  arg  c,  and  along  the  por- 
tion starting  at  c  and  running  to  0,  arg  (/  —  c)  =  tt  -f  arg  c.  On  both 
portions  arg  /  =  arg  c.  Bearing  this  in  mind  and  setting  /  =  c  sin^  d  on  the 
two  portions  gives 

Jo      b^  -\-  c  cos'^  6 
The  integral  may  be  expressed  in  terms  of  the  function 

Ie{k,x)  =   f   e~''Io{ku)du 
Jo 


PROPERTIES  OF  SINE  WAVE  PLUS  NOISE  157 

by  noting  that 

Jo    a  +  jS  COS  z;  Jo         L«  +  /^  cos  v       Jo  J 

Jo 

=  7r(a2  -  ^2)-i/2  _  {^/a)Ie{fi/a,  a) 


Thus 


where 


/a.o  =  ire''h{c/2)  +  {irh' /a)e'"^'' le  (~,  a^  (A3-6) 

a  =  ^2  _^  c/2  (A3-7) 


Noise  in  Resistances  and  Electron  Streams 

By  J.  R.  PIERCE 

TECHNICALLY  correct  results  in  a  field  are  achieved  initially  in  diverse 
and  often  confusing  and  complicated  ways.  Sometimes,  such  results 
are  later  brought  together  to  give  them  a  more  unified  form  and  a  sounder 
basis;  such  critical  summary  and  exposition  is  of  great  value.  In  quite 
another  way,  a  worker  who  uses  results  established  in  a  field  will  discover 
many  plausible  reasons  for  believing  the  results,  and  he  will  find  eventually 
that  an  air  of  inevitability  and  ''understanding"  pervades  the  subject. 
Such  "understanding"  is  not  to  be  confused  with  the  process  of  rigorous 
proof  carried  out  step  by  step,  but  it  can  help  in  organizing  and  making  use 
of  a  body  of  related  material. 

The  field  of  ''noise",  especially  as  it  affects  electron  devices  and  communi- 
cations in  general,  is  one  particularly  troublesome  to  engineers.  The  sound 
work  on  the  subject  has  commonly  involved  mathematics  and  especially 
statistical  ideas  unfamiliar  to  many  who  must  deal  with  the  practical  prob- 
lems of  noise.  In  early  papers  on  noise,  a  great  deal  of  heat  was  generated 
in  acrimonious  controversy  between  two  schools,  one  of  which  assigned  a 
uniform  noise  spectrum  to  certain  noise  sources,  while  the  other  held  this  to 
be  inadmissible  and  got  identical  answers  by  more  recondite  means. 
Happily,  a  recent  paper  by  S.  O.  Rice^  clearly  presents  both  approaches. 
Rice's  paper  further  provides  a  fine  broad  summary  of  noise  problems  to- 
gether with  considerable  original  material.  It  does  not  extend  far  into  the 
field  of  electronics.2 

The  reader  who  has  sufficient  time  could  achieve  a  profound  "understand- 
ing" of  the  circuit  aspects  of  noise  by  reading  Rice's  paper.  The  under- 
standing would  involve  familiarity  with  much  mathematics  useful  in  itself. 
To  many  engineers,  however,  this  might  prove  a  lengthy  and  painful  process. 

The  writer  proposes  to  present  here  a  series  of  plausible  arguments  for 
believing  certain  facts  about  noise.  Both  simple  circuit  considerations  and 
"electronic"  effects  (as,  space  charge  reduction  of  noise)  are  included.  The 
arguments  presented  are  not  intended  to  be  original  and  it  is  not  claimed 
that  they  are  rigorous;  they  do  seem  to  be  easily  understood,  and  to  help  in 
remembering  and  in  using  some  important  practical  material.  Starting 
points  of  the  arguments,  or  "postulates",  have  been  chosen  on  the  basis  of 
familiarity,  not  simplicity.  No  effort  is  made  to  point  out  all  of  the  hidden 
assumptions  in  the  arguments,  but  a  few  important  ones  are  indicated. 

158 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES  159 

An  initial  warning  should  be  made  that  quantum  effects  treated  in 
Nyquist's  original  paper  on  Johnson  noise,  but  afterwards  much  neglected, 
are  entirely  disregarded  here. 

I.  Johnson  Noise* 

In  1926,  in  an  investigation  of  amplifiers  with  exceedingly  high  grid 
resistances,  J.  B.  Johnson  discovered  that  a  resistance  acts  as  a  noise  genera- 
tor having  an  open-circuit  voltage  with  a  mean  square  value 

v^  =  4kTRB.  (1) 

Here  and  subsequently,  lower  case  letters  v  and  i  will  be  used  in  referring  to 
noise  voltages  and  currents.  In  (1),  v-  is  the  mean  square  value  of  noise 
voltage  components  of  frequency  lying  in  a  small  bandwidth  B  (sometimeg 


>    (matched 
power  into  load  is:  ^        load) 


Fig.  1 — Relations  between  noise  power,  noise  voltage  and  noise  current  can  be  derived 
by  assuming  the  noise  source  to  be  a  voltage  in  series  with  a  resistance. 

called  df  or  A/),  k  is  Boltzman's  constant,  and  R  is  resistance.  We  easily 
see  from  Fig.  1  that  the  maximum  noise  power  which  can  be  made  to  flow 
from  the  resistance  into  a  load  (that  which  will  flow  into  a  matched  load)  is 

P  =  ^  =  ''TB.  (2) 

This  '^available  noise  powxr"  is  a  convenient  alternative  formulation. 

If  an  impedance  has  a  reactive  as  well  as  a  resistive  component,  the  open 
circuit  noise  is  given  by  (1)  where  R  is  the  resistive  component;  if  an  admit- 
tance has  a  conductance  G  the  noise  may  be  represented  as  an  impressed 
current  (that  which  flows  when  the  admittance  is  short  circuited)  of 
magnitude 

J2  =  4kTGB.  (3) 

We  see  from  (1)  that  if  two  resistances  are  connected  in  series,  the  total 
squared  noise  voltage  is  the  sum  of  the  squares  of  the  noise  voltages  produced 
by  the  resistances  separately,  and  from  (3)  we  see  that  the  noise  currents  of 
conductances  connected  in  shunt  also  add  by  summing  squares.  This  rule 
of  addition  holds  for  adding  the  noise  of  all  independent  sources.  Of  course, 
if  noise  from  the  same  noise  source  reaches  a  point  by  different  paths,  the 


160  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

voltage  or  current  components  near  any  frequency  should  be  added  directly 
with  due  regard  for  phase. 

Johnson  noise  is  related  to  many  physically  similar  phenomena  such  as 
Brown ian  motion  and  the  random  fluctuations  in  position  observed  in  the 
coils  of  very  sensitive  galvanometers. 

The  simplest  derivation  of  (1),  (2)  or  (3)  is  that  given  by  Nyquist'^  in  a 
companion  paper  to  Johnson's.  Consider  a  long  lossless  transmission  line 
of  length  L  terminated  at  each  end  in  resistances  equal  to  its  characteristic 
impedance.  Imagine  line  and  terminations  in  thermal  equilibrium  at  a 
temperature  T,  as  shown  in  Fig.  2,  If  electrical  energy  flows  from  the 
resistance  at  1  to  that  at  2,  then  equal  energy  must  then  flow  from  2  to  1, 
as  any  net  gain  or  loss  of  energy  would  violate  the  second  law  of  thermo- 
dynamics. 

Now,  suppose  that  we  suddenly  close  the  switches  at  1  and  2,  short  circuit- 
ing the  ends  of  the  line.    The  line  now  becomes  a  resonator,  having  resonant 


Fig.  2 — Two  resistances  terminating  a  transmission  line  act  as  generators  of  thermal 
noise  power  traveling  along  the  line. 

frequencies  such  that  the  line  is  n  half  wavelengths  long.  The  resonant 
frequencies  will  be 

f=n{c/2L).  (4) 

Here  n  is  an  integer  and  c  is  the  velocity  of  light.  The  frequencies  are 
separated  by  frequency  intervals 

A/  =  {c/2L).  (5) 

The  energy  which  originally  flowed  right  to  left  and  left  to  right  between  th^ 
resistances  is  now  reflected  at  the  ends.  It  may  be  expressed  as  the  thermal 
energy  associated  with  the  resonant  modes  of  the  line.  According  to 
statistical  mechanics,  there  is  an  energy  kT  associated  with  each  resonant 
mode.  The  energy  per  unit  bandwidth  is  obtained  by  dividing  this  by  the 
frequency  interval  between  modes,  given  by  (5)  and  is 

w^  kTlLf^  kT/{c/2L).  (6) 

Since  it  takes  a  wave  a  time  L/c  to  pass  completely  through  the  line,  this 
energy  w  represents  the  energy  per  unit  bandwidth  which  flowed  into  the 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES  161 

line  from  both  resistances  over  a  period  L/c.     If  p  is  the  power  per  unit 
bandwidth  from  one  resistance,  then 


2p(L/c)  =  w=  kT/{c/2L) 
p  =  kT. 


(7) 


Or,  we  may  say  that  the  power  flow  from  a  resistance  into  a  matched  load 
(the  available  power)  is,  for  a  bandwidth  B 

P  =  kTB.  (8) 

Sometimes  it  may  be  desired  to  know  the  mean  squared  fluctuation  voltage 
integrated  over  all  frequencies.  Carrying  out  such  an  integration  for  the 
voltage  between  a  pair  of  terminals  connected  by  a  comphcated  network 
would  seem  to  be  a  difficult  procedure.  However,  if  the  pair  of  terminals  is 
shunted  by  a  capacitance,  the  integrated  fluctuation  voltage  can  be  ob- 
tained by  direct  application  of  the  principles  of  statistical  mechanics. 

In  a  lumped  network  composed  of  capacitive,  inductive  and  resistive 
elements*  each  capacitance  and  each  inductance  constitutes  a  degree  of 
freedom;  that  is,  the  electrical  state  of  the  network  can  be  specified  com- 
pletely by  specifying  the  voltage  across  each  capacitance  and  the  current 
in  each  inductance**.  According  to  statistical  mechanics,  the  average 
stored  energy  per  degree  of  freedom  is  kT/2.  The  stored  energy  in  a 
capacitance  is  Cv-/2.  Thus,  the  mean  squared  noise  voltage  of  all  frequen- 
cies across  a  capacitance  C  must  be 

^2  =  kT/C.  (9) 

Similarly,  the  mean  squared  noise  current  of  all  frequencies  flowing  in  an 
inductance  L  is 

i"2  =  kT/L.  (10) 

We  have  conveniently  thought  of  Johnson  noise  as  generated  in  the 
resistances  in  a  network.  We  need  not  change  this  concept  and  say  that 
the  voltage  and  current  of  (9)  and  (10)  are  generated  in  the  capacitance  or 
inductance  any  more  than  we  would  say  that  the  thermal  velocities  of 
molecules  are  generated  by  the  molecules'  mass.  Relations  (9)  and  (10) 
merely  represent  necessary  consequences  of  the  laws  of  statistical  mechanics 
as,  indeed,  does  (1). 

It  is  of  some  interest  to  illustrate  the  use  of  (9)  and  its  connection  with  (1) 

*  Strictly,  such  a  lumped  network  is  an  unrealizable  ideal.  There  are  no  pure  capaci- 
tances, inductances,  or  resistances.  The  conditions  under  which  actual  condensers,  coils 
and  resistors  can  be  represented  satisfactorily  by  these  idealizations  must  be  judged  b> 
measurement  or  calculation  or  by  past  experience  or  intuition. 

**  In  enumerating  the  degrees  of  freedom,  capacitances  in  series  or  shunt  are  lumped 
together  as  one  element;  the  same  holds  true  for  inductances. 


162  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

by  a  very  simple  example.  Consider  a  resonant  circuit  consisting  of  a 
capacitance  C,  an  inductance  L  and  a  resistance  Rq  ,  all  in  parallel.  The 
resistive  component  of  the  impedance  across  this  circuit  is 


R  = 


1  +  Q 


2  I  03  C0o\  (11) 


(Oi     _  COoV 
Wo         w/ 


Q  =  i^ocooC  =  i^o/cooL  (12) 

coo  =  l/VZC.  (13) 

Here  coo  is  the  resonant  frequency  of  the  circuit  and  Q  has  its  usual  meaning. 

From  (1)  we  see  that  as  Rq  ,  the  resistance  at  resonance  (co  =  coo)  is  made 
higher,  the  noise  voltage  for  frequencies  near  resonance  increases.  How- 
ever, if  we  regard  coo  and  C  in  (12)  as  fixed,  we  see  that  as  Rq  is  increased 
the  Q  of  the  circuit  is  increased,  the  frequency  range  over  which  R  is  high  is 
decreased,  and  R  actually  becomes  lower  far  from  resonance.  (9)  tells  us 
that  the  mean  square  noise  voltage  integrated  over  all  frequencies  remains 
constant  as  Rq  is  changed. 

It  is  found  that  for  a  high  Q  circuit,  the  noise  is  much  like  a  carrier  of 
frequency  coo  modulated  by  low-frequency  noise.  If  we  let  the  radian  fre- 
quency of  this  ''noise  modulation"  be  (co  —  coo),  then  the  mean  square 
ampHtude  of  the  noise  modulation  varies  with  frequency  about  as  R  given 
by  (11)  varies  with  (co  —  coo). 

II.  ScHOTTKY  Noise  or  Shot  Noise 

In  1918  Schottky^  described  the  ''Schrot-Effekt":  the  noise  in  vacuum 
tubes  due  to  the  corpuscular  nature  of  the  electron  convection  current. 
This  is  commonly  known  as  ''shot  noise."  The  magnitude  of  this  noise  is 
usually  derived  by  means  quite  different  from  those  used  here. 

Johnson  noise  is  necessarily  associated  with  any  electrical  resistance, 
whatever  its  nature.  Now,  consider  a  close  spaced  planar  diode  shown  in 
Fig.  3  consisting  of  two  opposed  emitting  cathodes,  each  emitting  a  current 
/o .  Suppose  the  whole  diode  is  held  at  the  same  temperature.  There  are 
no  batteries  or  other  sources  of  power  aside  from  thermal  energy;  the  only 
electrical  energy  flow  must  then  be  Johnson  noise,  ascribable  to  the  re- 
sistance of  the  diode. 

Assume  that  the  cathodes  both  have  the  same  uniform  work  function. 
Then  when  the  diode  is  short  circuited,  each  electron  emitted  from  cathode  1 
will  reach  cathode  2,  and  each  electron  emitted  from  cathode  2  will  reach 
cathode  1  .*     If  cathode  2  were  made  negative,  all  the  electrons  from  2  would 

*  It  is  here  assumed  that  /©  is  small  enough  so  that  depression  of  potential  due  to  space 
charge  is  avoided. 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES 


163 


continue  to  reach  1,  but  some  of  the  low- velocity  electrons  leaving  1  would 
be  turned  back  from  2. 

It  is  well  known^  that  if  a  Maxwellian  velocity  distribution  is  assumed 
for  the  electrons  leaving  1,  the  electrons  which  can  overcome  the  retarding 
field  and  reach  2  are  found  to  constitute  a  current 


he 


eVikT 


(14) 


Here  /o  is  the  total  current  carried  by  electrons  leaving  1  and  V  is  the  voltage 
of  2  with  respect  to  1 ,  which  has  been  assumed  to  be  negative. 


lo 

1 

2 

lo 

Fig.  3 — An  electronic  resistance  formed  by  two  opposed  cathodes  at  the  same  tem- 
perature acts  as  a  generator  of  thermal  noise. 

By  differentiating  (14)  we  can  obtain  the  diode  conductance  G  at  F  =  0, 
and  we  find 


kT 


u 


(15) 


From  (3)  when  the  diode  is  short  circuited  and  the  voltage  is  zero  we  have 
a  mean  square  noise  current 


i2  =  4kTGB  =  il  (ikTB)  =  4eIoB. 
kl 


(16) 


This  noise  is  the  sum  of  the  noise  due  to  two  independent  noise  sources 
(the  noise  in  the  two  currents  /o).     That  due  to  either  current  7o  is* 


P  =  2eIoB. 


(17) 


*  In  this  section,  we  are  concerned  with  short  transit  angles  only  and  no  distinction 
need  be  made  between  the  current  induced  in  the  circuit,  /,  and  the  electron  convection 
current. 


164  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

This  is  the  expression  for  shot  noise  in  a  randomly  emitted  current,  as  in 
temperature  limited  emission  or  in  photo  electric  emission. 

III.  Noise  Other  Than  Shot  Noise:  Electron  Multipliers 

Let  us  consider  a  class  of  systems  in  which  the  average  output  current  is 
proportional  to  the  average  input  current,  in  which  an  electron  of  charge,  e 
entering  produces  an  output  charge,  ne  instantaneously,  and  in  which  the 
probability  that  any  electron  will  produce  n  electrons  is  pn  . 

If  the  input  current  is  /o ,  the  average  output  current  is 

/  =  nlo  (18) 

n  =  J2nPn.  (19) 

n 

It  is  easy  to  persuade  ourselves  that  any  frequency  component  of  current, 
noise  or  signal,  will  produce  an  output  current  il  times  as  great;  this  happens 
to  be  true,  and  we  will  use  the  fact. 

Let  us  consider  our  device  when  it  has  randomly  emitted  electrons  as  an 
input.  At  the  output  we  will  see  appear  groups  of  1,  2,  3  etc.  electrons, 
each  group  caused  by  the  entrance  of  a  single  electron.  If  Iq  is  the  total 
input  current,  the  output  current  consisting  of  groups  of  n  electrons  is 

In   =    niopn.  (20) 

Each  group  carries  a  charge  ne.  We  may  now  use  (17)  to  write  the  noise 
in  the  part  of  the  current  carried  by  groups  of  n  electrons,  replacing  the 
electronic  charge,  e,  by  the  group  charge,  ne 

¥,  =  2{ne){nIopn)B.  (21) 

As  there  is  no  correlation  between  entering  electrons,  the  total  mean  square 
output  noise  current  will  be  the  sum  of  the  noise  components  carried  by 
groups  consisting  of  different  numbers  n  of  electrons.  Summing  (19)  with 
respect  to  n  we  obtain 

if  =  leloBn^  (22) 

n'  =  J^n'p,,.  (23) 

Now,  the  input  has  been  taken  as  having  shot  noise.  A  part  of  the  noise 
output  is  to  be  attributed  to  this  input  shot  noise  amplified  by  the  device; 
that  is,  it  will  be  fi^  times  the  input  shot  noise. 

^  =  n^lehB.  (24) 

The  part  of  the  noise  output  current  due  to  the  fact  that  an  electron  does 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES  165 

not  produce  n  electrons,  but  may  produce  0,  1,  2*  •  •  etc.  electrons,  must 
be  the  difference  between  (22)  and  (24),  or 

if  =  leloBin^  -  n').  (25) 

The  quantity  in  parentheses  is  the  mean  square  deviation  in  w.* 

If  the  input  current  has  any  noise  components  i\ ,  then  the  total  noise 
output  component  will  be 

i'  =  fi-{-n¥„.  (26) 

By  applying  (26)  successively  to  stage  after  stage  the  noise  output  of  a 
multistage  electron  multiplier  can  be  evaluated  (if  one  knows  (w^  —  n^))J 
Wonder  is  sometimes  expressed  that  current  can  be  noisier  than  shot 
noise,  in  which  the  time  of  electron  arrival  is  purely  random.  Obviously, 
we  can  have  more  than  shot  noise  only  if  there  is  something  non-random 
about  the  time  of  electron  arrival,  and  the  argument  above  discloses  just 
what  this  is;  it  is  the  arrival  of  electrons  in  bunches.**  We  can  easily  see 
how  erratic  even  large  currents  would  be  if  electrons  were  bound  together 
in  groups  having  a  total  group  charge  of  a  coulomb,  all  the  electrons  in  a 
group  arriving  simultaneously.  Reverting  to  our  shot  noise  formulas, 
we  may  illustrate  this  by  assuming  a  perfect  multiplier  with  a  shot  noise 
input,  in  which  each  input  electron  produces  exactly  N  output  electrons. 
Arguing  from  the  shot  noise  equation  (17)  and  replacing  e  by  Ne  we  should 
expect  an  output  noise  current 

i"2  =  2{Ne)hB  (27) 

where  /i  is  the  output  current;  we  get  exactly  the  same  result  by  assuming 
the  input  noise  current  squared  amplified  by  N^ 

i^  =  {2eIoB)m 

=  2{Ne)  {NIo)B  (28) 

=  2iNe)  hB  . 

*The  mean  square  deviation  is  the  sum  with  respect  to  n  of  the  square  of  the  devia- 
tion from  the  mean  value  of  «,  n. 

S  («  -  nypn  =  S  n^pn  -  2n  S  «/»„  +  ^2  2  />„. 

The  summation  in  the  first  term  is"«'7that  in  thT second  term  is  n  and  that  in  the  third 
term  is  unity.     Hence 

S  («  -  n)*pn  =  (n2  -  n^). 

**  Anything,  (such  as  transit  time  difference  for  electrons  within  a  bunch)  which  tends 
to  break  up  the  bunches  will  reduce  the  noise— and  the  signal  as  well.  Such  noise  reduc- 
tion involves  a  return  to  a  more  nearly  random  flow. 


166  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Conversely,  we  are  led  to  wonder  whether  a  current  less  bunched  than 
that  produced  by  random  emission  might  not  have  less  noise.  The  most 
smoothly  distributed  current  we  can  imagine  is  that  of  /o  electrons  per 
second  emitted  at  evenly  spaced  intervals.  Obviously,  such  a  current  will 
have  a  spectrum  consisting  of  frequencies  w/o ,  integral  multiples  of  /o . 
Thus  for/  <  /o ,  there  will  be  no  "noise"  and  similarly  for /o  <  /  <  2/o , 
2/0 </<  3/0,  etc. 

For  a  current  of  10  ma,fo  =  6.3  X  10^^;  thus,  even  for  small  currents  an 
evenly  spaced  emission  would  have  no  a-c  components  in  the  radio-fre- 
quency range;  this  is  a  comforting  thought  in  considermg  space-charge 
reduction  of  noise,  which  is  discussed  in  section  5.  However,  purely  to 
satisfy  our  curiosity  we  may  pursue  the  matter  a  little  further.  If  we 
assume  that  each  electron  constitutes  an  instantaneous  pulse  of  current,  a 
simple  harmonic  analysis  shows  that  the  a-c  current  component  of  fre- 
quency nfo  will  have  a  mean  square  value 

fn  =  2e/o/o.  (29) 

Thus,  in  each  interval /o  wide  centered  about  a  frequency  nfo  there  will  be  a 
mean  squared  a-c  current  equal  to  that  which  would  be  associated  with  the 
same  band  for  random  emission  with  the  same  current.  By  making  the 
emission  regular  we  have  not  reduced  the  mean  square  "noise"  current  in  a 
broad  frequency  range;  we  have  merely  changed  its  frequency  distribution 
from  a  uniform  distribution  to  a  distribution  of  sharp,  high  peaks. 

IV.  Partition  Noise 

Consider  a  tetrode,  shown  in  Fig.  4,  with  a  cathode  current  Ic ,  a  screen 
current  /, ,  and  a  plate  current  Ip  . 

The  grid  current  is  taken  as  zero.  Suppose  that  the  screen  is  very  fine, 
so  that  every  electron  leaving  the  cathode  has  the  same  chance  of  striking 
the  screen,  regardless  of  its  point  of  departure.  We  may  now  regard  the 
function  of  the  screen  as  that  of  a  peculiarly  simple  electron  multiplier, 
for  which  n  can  be  zero  (electron  striking  screen)  or  1  (electron  passing 
screen). 

The  probability  of  an  electron  passing  the  screen  is  Ip/h  •  Accordingly, 
from  (19)  and  (23), 

n  =  Ip/Ic  (30) 

n^  =  Ip/Ic  (31) 

Suppose  we  write  the  noise  in  the  cathode  current  as 

72  =  r^lelcB  (32) 

Here  P,  a  factor  less  than  unity,  is  introduced  to  account  for  the  "space 
charge  noise  reduction"  in  space  charge  1  united  flow. 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES 


167 


Now,  by  applying  (25)  and  (26)  we  obtain  for  tlie  noise  m  the  plate 
current 


i|  =  2eI,Bil  -  (1  -  r')(V7.)). 


m 


It  is  to  be  noted  that  if  T^  =  1,  that  is,  if  the  cathode  current  is  random, 
the  noise  in  the  plate  current  is  purely  shot  noise.  The  screen  cannot  make 
the  plate  current  noisier  than  shot  noise  since  it  does  not  act  to  produce 
bunches  of  electrons. 

The  noise  m  the  screen  current  can  be  obtained  by  substituting  /«  for  Ip 


^^ 


1 


ceo 


5| 

UJ, 


HII 


^111 


Fig.  4 — Electrons  randomly  hitting  or  missing  the  screen  grid  make  a  tetrode  noisier 
than  a   triode. 

in  {S3).     There  is  a  correlation  between  the  screen  and  plate  noise  currents; 
the  total  noise  in  the  screen  current  plus  the  plate  current  must,  of  course,  be 


is  +  H  =  il  =  T'2eIoB 


(34) 


and  not  the  sum  of  i%  and  i1  • 

Partition  noise  has  been  discussed  by  Thompson,  North  and  Harris.* 


V.  Space  Charge  Reduction  of  Noise 

In  this  section  an  approximate  derivation  of  noise  in  a  space  charge  lim- 
ited diode  will  be  presented.  The  derivation  leads  to  an  expression  valid 
for  many  practical  tubes  and  illustrates  the  nature  of  the  noise  in  space 
charge  limited  flow. 

Consider  a  parallel  plane  diode  of  unit  area  and  spacing  x,  with  an  applied 
voltage  Vq,  as  shown  in  Fig.  5.  When  the  voltage  is  applied,  the  electron 
convection  current  in  the  diode  rises  to  value  h  -  Neglecting  thermal 
velocities  of  electron  emission,  this  current  is  such  that  the  electronic 


168 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


"space  charge"  associated  with  it  causes  the  voltage  gradient  at  the  cathode 
surface  to  be  zero.  A  greater  current  would  mean  a  negative  gradient  at 
the  cathode  and  hence  no  emission;  a  smaller  current  would  mean  a  positive 
gradient  at  the  cathode  and  unlimited  emission.  On  this  basis  Child's  law 
is  derived,  which  gives  the  current  per  unit  area  h  in  amperes  in  terms  of 
the  voltage  Vq  and  the  spacing  in  centimeters  x  as 

/o  =  (2.33)  10-«Fo'''A' .  (35) 


Fig.  5 — Part  of  the  electrons  leaving  the  cathode  of  a  diode  are  turned  back  before 
reaching  the  potential  minimum;  others  proceed  to  the  anode.  Ordinarily  the  greater 
amount  of  noise  is  associated  with  the  space  between  the  potential  minimum  and  the  anode. 

From  (35)  we  can  obtain  a  useful  relation  for  the  conductance  G 

G  =  dh/dV,  =  (3/2)(/o/Fo).  (36) 

The  resistance  R  is 

i?  =  1/G  =  (2/3)(Fo//o).  (37) 

In  actual  diodes,  the  electrons  are  emitted  from  the  cathode  with  a 
thermal  velocity  distribution;  a  potential  minimum  of  some  negative  voltage 
Vm.  is  formed  at  some  distance  Xm  from  the  cathode  surface.  If  the  magni- 
tude of  the  emitted  electron  current  is  /,  and  the  actual  current  passing  the 
potential  minimum  is  h  ,  then  because  of  the  Maxwellian  velocity  distribu- 
tion we  have 

/o  =  /.,-^«/*- 

_   r    ii,eooF«/r  ^     ^ 

—    i«€ 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES  169 

Ordinarily,  the  magnitude  of  F„,  is  very  small  compared  with  F©  ;  /o  is 
very  small  compared  with  I,  and  Xm  is  very  small  compared  with  x. 

Suppose  V„,  were  held  constant,  say,  by  putting  a  conducting  plane  of 
potential  Vm  at  x^  .  Then,  the  electrons  which  pass  this  plane  are  quite 
independent  of  the  low  energy  electrons  which  are  turned  back,  and  hence 
in  the  current  passmg  ocm  there  will  be  pure  shot  noise. 

t^  =  2eIoB.  (39) 

Now  suppose  we  change  Vm  .     The  change  in  /o  will  be,  from  (38), 

dio  =  dVjRm  (40) 

Rm  =  {eU/kT)-K  (41) 

If  "we  use  a  constant  current  instead  of  a  constant  voltage  d-c  supply,  then 
Vm  must  fluctuate  in  such  a  way  as  to  cause  a  current  equal  and  opposite  to 
(39),  or,  there  must  be  a  fluctuating  voltage  vL  such  that 

^  =  lel^Rl 

(42) 
=  {\/2)AkTRmB. 

Suppose  we  consider  the  noise  fluctuation  of  the  anode  voltage  of  a  space 
charge  limited  diode  supplied  from  a  constant-current  source.  If  there 
were  no  fluctuations  in  the  voltage  drop  between  the  potential  minimum 
at  Xm  and  the  anode  at  x,  (42)  would  give  the  noise  voltage  fluctuation  of 
such  an  "open  circuited"  diode.  Actually,  much  larger  fluctuation  voltages 
are  observed,  and  we  must  conclude  that  they  arise  in  the  space  between  the 
potential  mmimum  and  the  anode.  As  the  current  is  constant  in  this  region 
(by  definition — we  have  assumed  a  constant-current  supply)  we  are  forced 
to  conclude  that  such  fluctuations  are  due  to  a  variation  of  mean  electron 
speed  in  this  region.  The  field  at  .t„»  is  necessarily  zero.  If,  with  a  constant 
current,  electrons  travel  more  rapidly  between  Xm  and  the  anode,  there  is 
less  electronic  charge  ever>^vhere  in  this  region,  the  rate  of  change  of  field 
with  distance,  and  hence,  the  field,  are  everywhere  smaller,  and  the  voltage 
between  x„,  and  the  anode  at  x  will  be  smaller. 

It  is  somewhat  involved  to  treat  the  problem  of  multi-velocity  flow 
exactly;  this  has  been  done  by  Rack^  and  others^-^°^^;  however.  Rack  has 
shown  that  an  approximate  treatment  yields  very  nearly  the  correct  result 
over  a  fairly  wide  range  of  conditions.  In  this  approximation,  the  stream 
of  electrons  with  many  velocities  and  a  fluctuating  mean  velocity  is  replaced 
by  a  stream  in  which  all  electrons  have  the  same  velocity,  and  this  has  a 
mean  square  fluctuation  equal  to  that  of  the  multi-velocity  stream. 

Let  us  now  measure  x  from  the  potential  minimum.  Suppose  we  con- 
sider an  electron  which  passed  the  potential  minimum  (:c  =  0)  at  /  =  0. 


170  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  field  at  the  potential  minimum  is  zero.  The  charge  which  has  flowed 
in  behind  the  electron  at  the  time  tis—tlo.  Hence,  from  Gauss's  theorem 
the  potential  gradient  is 

dV/dx  =  /o  t/e  (43) 

where  e  is  the  dielectric  constant  of  vacuum.    We  have  for  the  acceleration 

*  =  ^  ^..  (44) 

me 

If  at  the  time  /  =  0  (at  the  potential  minimum),  x  =  0,  i;  =  ^o 

*=-^/^  +  *o  (45) 

m  2e 

x  =  -^^t'  +  XoL  (46) 

Now  the  voltage  V  between  the  potential  minimum  and  any  point  x  must 
be  such  that 

^2  _  ^2  ^  2  ^  ^^  (47^ 

m 


r.  e  \m  2e/  2e 


2^v (48) 

m 

At  any  fixed  point  x^  if  we  vary  xq  by  a  small  amount  dxa ,  we  find  by  dif- 
ferentiating (46) 

dt_  __  t 

dxo  fe  lo  ^2    ,    .y  (49) 

\m2e'   +^; 

€    \m2e  I  2e 


From  (48) 


(50) 


Using  (49) 


dV,=^  -^^t'dxo.  (51) 

2e 

It  now  remains  to  evaluate  /.  For  most  cases,  the  thermal  velocities  at 
the  p>otential  minimum  are  so  small  compared  with  the  velocities  in  most 
of  the  region  between  the  minimum  and  the  anode  that  we  can  take  the 
value  of  /  for  xo  =  0.    Then,  from  (45)  and  (47) 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES  171 

From  (51)  and  (52) 

dVo=  ^2'''(^^~'^\l''dxo.  (53) 


Now,  if  (dxo)^  is  the  mean  square  fluctuation  in  velocity,  the  mean  square 
fluctuation  in  voltage  will  be 

v^  =  2{e/m)-' Vo(d±o)''-  (54) 

The  assumptions  leading  to  (54)  are  those  leading  to  Child's  law,  and  thus 
we  can  use  (37)  in  connection  with  (54),  giving 


V'  =  3{e/m)  'loR  {dx^y.  (55) 


It  now  remains  to  evaluate  {dx^-,  the  mean  square  fluctuation  in  the 
velocity  of  the  electrons  passing  the  potential  minimum;  to  do  this,  we 
return  to  (25).  Suppose  N  is  the  number  of  input  electrons  per  second. 
The  output  current  can  then  be  written 

h  =  nNe  (56) 

and  we  can  call  the  fluctuation  in  it 


t'  =  {bnNef.  (57) 

Equation  (25)  applies  for  no  fluctuation  in  /o  and  hence  for  no  fluctuation 
in  iV;  e  is  a  constant,  and  thus  we  may  write  (25)  as 

m'  =  ^-§in''-n%  (58) 

We  may  generalize  this  to  say  that  each  electron  has  a  probability  p  of 
producing  some  effect  of  magnitude  n  and  the  fluctuation  in  the  magnitude 
of  the  effect  is  (5^)^.  Before,  we  said  that  an  electron  had  a  probability 
p  of  producing  n  secondaries.  Now  we  will  say  instead  that  an  electron 
has  an  uncorrelated  probability  p  of  having  a  velocity  u,  and  obtain  for  the 
mean  fluctuation  in  the  velocity,  {dx^"^ 

(d^2  =  ^^(u^-u').  (59) 

In  a  MaxweUian  distribution,  the  number  of  electrons  passing  a  plane 
perpendicular  to  the  direction  of  motion  per  second  having  velocities  lying 
in  the  range  du  at  u  is 

dn  =  Aue-^"'''"'''''^^  du.  (60) 


172  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Here  Tc  is  cathode  temperature.     We  see  u  and  u^  are 

Jo 


u  = 


r 


U€ 


■(mu^l2kT 


[         3    -imu^ 
I       U    € 

-^        Jq 


l2kTc) 


'^^  du 


I 


U€ 


■(mu^likTc) 


du 


kTc 
m 


(61) 


(62) 


Accordingly 


.2  1  /A  \   f^J-  c 

.    =  i(4  -  x)  ^ 


Combining  (63)  with  (59)  we  obtain 


B 


{dxor  =  ^  (4 


kT. 


m 


(63) 


(64) 


Combining  (62)  with  (53)  and  remembering  that  Iq  =  Ne  we  find  the  mean 
square  open  circuit  noise  voltage  to  be 


!;2  =  3(4  -  tt)  kTcRB 
=  (.644)  UTcRB. 


(65) 


This  is  the  chief  contribution  to  noise  in  a  space  charge  limited  diode. 

Usually  R  is  substantially  equal  to  the  plate  resistance  of  the  diode  (it 
does  not  include  effects  on  the  cathode  side  of  the  potential  minimum). 
Hereafter  R  will  be  treated  as  the  total  plate  resistance  of  the  diode. 

VI.  Noise  in  Triodes  and  Pentodes 

Consider  the  triode  shown  in  Fig.  6.  Here  we  have  a  cathode,  a  grid, 
and  a  plate.  The  input  admittance  of  the  tube  is  represented  in  the  di- 
agram by  the  grid-cathode  capacitance  Ci  and  the  grid-plate  capacitance  d  . 
The  resistance  Rn  is  a  fictitious  noise  resistance  which  will  be  evaluated 
later.  It  is  assumed  to  act  between  the  input  admittance  of  the  tube  and 
the  controlling  action  of  the  grid;  no  current  can  flow  in  Rn  because  the  grid 
as  indicated  in  the  diagram  is  presumed  to  present  an  open  circuit. 

We  will  regard  the  cathode-grid  region  of  the  triode  as  an  ''equivalent 
diode  '*    The  anode  voltage  of  the  diode  is  taken  as 


V,  =  iV,  +  K,/m). 


(66) 


NOISE  IN  RESISTANCES 


173 


Here  Vg  is  the  grid  voltage  and  Vp  the  plate  voltage  of  the  triode.     If  the 
plate  voltage  is  held  constant  and  n  is  taken  as  constant 


dVo  =  dV, 


Hence,  under  these  conditions 


a/o/dFo  =  G  =  dlQ/dVg. 


(67) 


(68) 


Here  G  is  the  conductance  of  the  equivalent  diode,  the  reciprocal  of  R 
which  appears  in  (65),  and  is  also  the  transconductance  of  the  triode. 

As  we  wish  to  calculate  the  noise  with  no  a-c  grid  or  plate  voltage,  and 
as  these  through  (64)  specify  the  plate  voltage  Vq  of  the  equivalent  diode, 


Ci     GRID-CATHODE   CAPACITANCE 
C2    GRID -PLATE    CAPACITANCE 

Fig.  6 — Low-frequency  noise  in  a  triode  can  be  ascribed  to  a  fictitious  noise  resistance 
Rn  ,  acting  into  an  open  circuit  to  cause  voltage  fluctuations  on  the  grid. 

the  equivalent  diode  may  be  regarded  as  short-circuited.     Hence,  the  noise 
current  will  be 


=  {.6U)4:kTaGB. 
If  we  express  this  as  shot  noise  reduced  by  a  factor  T^  we  obtain 

i^  =  2eIoT^B 

2kTM 


(69) 


r  =  (.644) 


(70) 


elo 


Often,  the  noise  expressed  by  (69)  is  ascribed  as  a  fictitious  noise  resistance 
Rn  ,  at  room  Temperature  T,  connected  between  the  grid-cathode  capaci- 
tance and  the  ''controlling  action"  of  the  grid  as  shown  in  Fig.  6.  This 
fictitious  resistance  looks  into  a  complete  open  circuit;  hence,  it  has  a  noise 
voltage 


v^  =  ^kTRnB 


(71) 


174  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

and  produces  a  noise  plate  current  (for  zero  load  resistance) 

i^  =  ^kTRnBGK  (72) 

Comparing  (69)  with  (72)  we  find 

Rn  =  (.644/G)  {TJT,).  (73) 

Here  To  is  a  reference  temperature,  usually  taken  as  290°  K.  The  effect  of 
load  impedance  on  signal  from  this  fictitious  resistance  is  treated  by  purely 
circuit  means. 

In  pentodes  there  is  noise  according  to  (69)  and  in  addition  there  is  par- 
tition noise  according  to  (33).  By  taking  P  from  (70)  and  equating  the 
noise  current  given  by  {?)?))  to  (72)  the  fictitious  "noise  resistance"  of  a 
pentode  can  be  evaluated  in  terms  of  g,  Ip/h  and  Tc/T. 

References 

1.  S.  O.  Rice,  "Mathematical  Analysis  of  Random  Noise,"  B.  S.  T.  /.,  XXJII,  pp. 

282-332,  July  1944,  and  XXIV,  pp.  46-156,  January,  1945. 

2.  D.  A.  Bell  has  given  a  valuable  summary  and  discussion  of  noise  and  especially  of  noise 

in  vacuum  tubes.     "Fluctuations  of  Electric  Current,"  Journal  of  the  I.  E.  E., 
Vol.  93,  pt.  3,  pp.  37-44,  January  1946. 

3.  J.  B.  Johnson,  "Thermal  Agitation  of  Electricity  in  Conductors,"  Fhys.  Rev.,  Vol. 

32,  No.  1,  pp.  97-109,  July  (1928). 

4.  H.  Nyquist,  'Thermal  Agitation  of  Electric  Charge  in  Conductors,"  Phys.  Rev., 

Vol.  32,  No.  1,  pp.  110-113,  July  (1928). 

5.  W.  Schottky,  "Spontaneous  Current  Fluctuations  in  Various  Conductors,"  Ann. 

Physik,  57,  pp.  541-567,  (1918). 

6.  Irving  Langmuir  and  Karl  T.  Compton,  "Electrical  Discharge  in  Gases,"  Part  II, 

Rev.  Mod.  Phys.,  Vol.  3,  ^2,  p.  226  (April  1931). 

7.  W.  Shockley  and  J.  R.  Pierce,  "A  Theory  of  Noise  for  Electron  Multipliers,"  Proc. 

L  R.  E.  26,  pp.  321-332,  March  1938. 

8.  B.  J.  Thompson,  D.  O.  North  and  W.  A.  Harris,  "Fluctuations  in  Space-Charge- 

Limited  Currents  at  Moderately  High  Frequencies" 
Part     I—R.  C.  A.  Review,  Jan.  1940 
Part   II—  "  Apr.  and  July  1940 

Part  III—  "  Oct.  1940 

Part  IV—  "  Jan.  1941 

Part    V—  "  Apr.  and  July  1941. 

9.  A.  J.  Rack,  "Effect  of  Space  Charge  and  Transit  Time  on  the  Shot  Noise  in  Diodes," 

B.  S.  T.  J.,  Vol.  17,  No.  4,  p.  592,  October  (1938). 

10.  W.  Schottky,  and  E.  Spenke,  "The  Space-Charge  Reduction  of  Shot  Effect,"  Wis- 

senschaftliche  V erofenllichungen  aus  den  Siemens-Werken,  Vol.  16,  No.  2,  pp.  1-41, 
July  (1937). 

11.  E.  Spenke,  "The  Space-Charge-Reduction  of  Shot  Effect,"  Wiss.   Verof.  atis  den 

Siemens-Werken,  Vol.  16,  No.  2,  p.  19,  July  (1937). 


Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors 

Gross-linkage  of  Linear  Polyesters  by  Free  Radicals}  W.  O.  Baker.  Re- 
actions fundamental  to  the  use  of  the  new  low  pressure  laminating  or  casting 
resins  have  been  studied.  The  striking  property  of  these  plastics,  which  are 
usually  based  on  some  polyester  and  a  vinyl  monomer,  is  their  rapid  and 
easy  curing,  leading  to  unique  ease  of  fabrication.  This  curing,  the  forma- 
tion of  a  permanent  three-dimensional  polymer  network,  or  gel,  is  achieved 
by  reaction  with  a  source  of  free  radicals,  such  as  from  an  organic  peroxide. 
These  agents  cause  polymerization  of  the  vinyl  monomer,  as  was  previously 
understood,  but  they  also  seem  to  incorporate  the  polyester  into  the  network, 
even  if  the  polyester  contains  little  or  no  unsaturation. 

Investigation  of  a  series  of  simple  polyesters,  the  polyundecanoates, 
showed  that  free  radicals,  such  as  come  from  the  decomposition  of  benzoyl 
peroxide,  could  cross-link  or  gel  the  linear,  saturated,  chains.  Apparently 
the  hydrogen  atoms  in  methylene  groups  next  to  polar  groups  like  the  car- 
bonyl,  i.e.,  the  a-hydrogens,  are  removed  by  the  free  radicals.  The  resulting 
chain  radical  attacks  an  adjacent  chain,  and  a  cross-link  is  formed.  The 
effects  of  cross-links  thus  produced  on  solubility,  dilute  solution  viscosity, 
melt  viscosity  and,  finally,  stress  relaxation  of  the  cured  solid  were  examined. 
Probably  the  similar  activity  of  a -hydrogen  atoms  is  important  in  the  chemi- 
cal aging  or  weathering  of  plastics  and  rubbers.  It  is  likewise  significant  for 
the  vulcanization  of  many  synthetic  rubbers. 

Rubberlike  Products  from  Linear  Polyesters.^  B.  S.  Biggs,  R.  H.  Erick- 
SON  and  C.  S.  Fuller.  The  polymers  which  result  from  the  condensation 
of  dibasic  acids  with  propylene  glycol  are  viscous  gums  which  can  be  vulcan- 
ized to  rubberlike  products.  In  the  unpigmented  condition  these  rubbers  are 
quite  weak,  but  when  reinforced  with  suitable  pigments  their  strength  and 
elongation  compare  favorably  with  other  synthetic  rubbers.  Because  poly- 
esters of  known  structure  and  molecular  weight  can  be  easily  synthesized, 
these  polymers  are  useful  for  the  study  of  the  relations  between  structure  and 
properties  in  rubberlike  materials  in  general.  Factors  affecting  tensile 
strength,  oil  resistance,  brittle  temperature,  and  stability  are  discussed. 

Pulse  Code  Modulation.^  H.  S.  Black  and  J.  O.  Edson.  A  radically  new 
modulation  technique  for  multichannel  telephony  has  been  developed  which 
involves  the  conversion  of  speech  waves  into  coded  pulses.     This  new  tech- 

1 


Jotir.  Amer.  Chemical  Soc,  May  1947. 

2  Indus.  &  Engg.  Chem.,  September  1947. 

3  Telephony,  August  30,  1947.  * 


175 


176  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

nique  is  called  Pulse  Code  Modulation  or  simply  PCM.  An  eight-channel 
system  embodying  these  principles  was  developed  and  produced  in  portable 
form  for  field  operation.  Other  work  carried  on  simultaneously  by  W.  M. 
Goodall  (see  B.  S.  T.  J.,  July  1947)  resulted  in  the  development  of  an  experi- 
mental system  using  a  different  method  of  coding. 

In  carrying  out  this  new  type  of  modulation,  the  speech  wave  applied  to 
each  channel  is,  in  effect,  transmitted  sample  by  sample,  and  each  sample  is- 
represented  by  a  multi-unit  code  employing  on-or-off  pulses,  hence  the  term 
PCM. 

This  method  appears  to  have  exceptional  possibiUties  from  the  standpoint 
of  freedom  from  interference.  Its  full  significance  in  connection  with  future 
radio  and  wire  transmission  may  take  some  time  to  reveal. 

Stereoscopic  Drawings  of  Crystal  Structures.^  W.  L.  Bond.  A  method  is 
presented  for  getting  stereoscopic  pairs  of  atomic  structure  views  given  the 
coordinates  of  the  atoms  and  cell  constants. 

Properties  of  Liquids  at  High  Sound  Pressure.^  H.  B.  Briggs,  J.  B.  John- 
son and  W.  P.  Mason.  When  sound  of  high  amplitude  is  transmitted  into 
a  liquid  by  means  of  a  mechanical  driving  device,  the  ultimate  limitation  to 
the  power  that  can  be  transferred  is  cavitation  or  breakdown  of  the  liquid 
under  high  internal  stresses.  A  study  of  cavitation  has  resulted  in  establish- 
ing the  following  results.  Under  steady-state  conditions,  light  liquids  filled 
with  air  cavitate  when  the  negative  acoustic  pressure  reaches  the  atmos- 
pheric pressure.  When  liquids  are  degassed,  their  natural  cohesive  pressure 
becomes  effective  and  they  will  withstand  a  negative  acoustic  pressure.  It 
is  found  that  the  total  negative  pressure  required  to  cause  cavitation  is  equal 
to  the  sum  of  the  cohesive  pressure — tensile  strength — and  the  ambient 
pressure.  Viscous  liquids  have  a  higher  cohesive  pressure  and  a  proportion- 
ality has  been  established  between  the  logarithm  of  the  viscosity  and  the 
cohesive  pressure.  The  amount  of  power  that  a  liquid  can  withstand 
increases  markedly  as  the  pulse  length  is  shortened. 

An  explanation  of  these  phenomena  is  attempted  on  the  basis  of  Eyring's 
theory  of  viscosity,  plasticity  and  diffusion.  On  this  theory  natural  holes 
exist  in  the  liquid  into  which  molecules  can  jump,  leaving  holes  behind  them. 
A  jump  occurs  when  the  molecule  has  accumulated  enough  heat  energy  to 
surmount  an  activation  potential  barrier  of  energy  value  Eo.  Cavitation 
appears  to  be  the  result  of  coalescing  of  the  natural  holes  in  the  negative 
pressure  phase  of  the  cycle.  Since  a  molecule  has  to  jump  from  a  hole  in 
order  that  this  can  coalesce  with  another  hole,  the  cavitation  pressure  is  pro- 
portional to  the  activation  energy  which  in  turn  is  proportional  to  the  log- 

♦  The  American  Mineralogist,  July- August  1947. 
*Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  Amer.,  July  1947.  « 


ABSTRACTS  OF  TECHNICAL  ARTICLES  177 

arithm  of  the  viscosity.  The  increased  power-transmitting  capacity  for 
short  pulse  lengths  is  a  result  of  the  finite  time  taken  for  the  small  holes  to 
grow  in  size  to  a  large  enough  hole  to  cause  rupture  of  the  liquid. 

Modulation  in  Communication.^  F.  A.  Cowan.  The  fundamentals  in- 
volved in  introducing  signals  into  one  medium  and  transmitting  them 
through  another  are  simplified  in  this  review,  so  that  the  relationships  be- 
tween the  many  varieties  of  modulations  attempted  or  in  contemporary  use 
are  formed  into  a  cohesive  whole. 

Air-borne  Magnetometers  J  E.  P.  Felch,*  W.  J.  Means,*  T.  Slonczew- 
SKi,*  L.  G.  Parratt,  L.  H.  Rumbaugh  and  A.  J.  Tickner.*  Developed 
under  the  impetus  of  the  submarine  menace  of  World  War  II,  the  air-borne 
magnetometer  has  found  many  peacetime  uses.  Navy  airplanes  equipped 
with  magnetometers  for  exploration  of  Antarctica  were  used  in  the  recent 
United  States  Navy  expedition.  An  expedition  now  is  studying  the  Aleutian 
Alaskan  volcanos  and  the  Aleutian  submarine  trench.  From  there  it  will 
proceed  to  Hawaii  and  Bikini. 

The  Generation  of  Centimeter  Waves}  H.  D.  Hagstrum.  The  electronic 
devices  used  most  extensively,  recently,  for  the  generation  of  centimeter 
waves  are  discussed.  The  physical  form,  operating  capabilities,  and  the 
basic  physical  principles  of  operation  of  the  triode,  velocity-variation,  and 
magnetron  oscillators  are  presented.  An  attempt  is  made  to  show  how  these 
oscillators  are  related  to  one  another.  For  a  variety  of  reasons,  particular 
emphasis  is  placed  on  the  magnetron  oscillator. 

Selective  Demodulation}  Donald  B.  Harris.  A  method  of  demodula- 
tion is  proposed  in  which  the  output  current  of  the  demodulator  is  a  linear 
function  of  the  input  voltage,  while  at  the  same  time  provision  is  made  for 
producing  the  necessary  product  terms  which  will  result  in  demodulation. 
Demodulation  is  brought  about  by  integrating  the  product  of  the  instan- 
taneous value  of  the  modulated  wave  by  the  instantaneous  value  of  a  wave 
having  the  same  frequency  and  phase  as  the  carrier.  Where  this  method  of 
demodulation  is  used  it  is  proposed  that  two  carriers  in  quadrature  on  the 
same  frequency  may  be  employed,  reducing  the  bandwidth  to  that  re- 
quired for  single-sideband  transmission. 

It  is  suggested  that  the  required  linear  demodulation  characteristics  may 
be  obtained  through  the  use  of  "electron-coupled"  demodulators.  Theo- 
retical considerations  indicate  that,  when  demodulation  of  this  type  is  em- 
ployed, selectivity  ahead  of  the  demodulator  may  be  dispensed  with,  the 

^Elec.  Engg.,  September  1947. 
7  Elec.  Engg.,  July  1947. 
*  Of  the  Bell  Sy Stan. 
^Proc.  I.  R.E.,  June  1947. 
9  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  June  1947. 


178  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

signal-to-noise  ratio  is  improved,  greater  economy  of  spectrum  space  is 
obtained,  the  number  of  tubes  required  is  materially  reduced  through  the 
use  of  a  common  intermediate-frequency  amplifier  for  a  number  of  channels, 
and  any  impairment  due  to  the  instability  of  the  carrier  or  oscillator  fre- 
quency is  reduced. 

As  an  example  of  the  possible  application  of  the  principles  outlined,  a 
hypothetical  eight-channel  transmission  system  is  described. 

The  Physical  Significance  of  Birkhoffs  Gravitational  Equations}^  Her- 
bert E.  Ives.  Birkhoff's  gravitational  equations  are  put  in  terms  of  dt  in 
place  of  the  local  time  ds  used  by  him.  The  transformed  equations  show  that 
Lorentzian  mass  has  been  used,  and  to  the  Newtonian  attractive  force  is 
added  a  force  normal  to  the  direction  of  motion,  vVc^  times  the  component 
of  the  gravitational  force  normal  to  the  motion. 

Attenuation  and  Scattering  of  High-Frequency  Sound  Waves  in  Metals  and 
Glasses}^  W.  P.  Mason  and  H.  J.  McSkimin.  By  using  a  pulse  method, 
attenuation  and  velocity  measurements  have  been  made  for  aluminum  and 
glass  rods  in  the  frequency  range  from  2  to  15  megacycles.  The  sound 
pulses  are  generated  by  crystals  waxed  to  the  surface  of  the  rod.  This  wax 
joint  limits  the  band  width  of  the  transmitted  pulse  and  measurements  are 
made  using  long  pulses  which  approach  steady  state  conditions.  The  re- 
flected pulses  show  evidence  of  several  normal  modes  which  can  be  minimized 
by  using  specially  shaped  electrodes.  Longitudinal  waves  show  delayed 
pulses  of  smaller  magnitude  that  are  caused  by  the  longitudinal  wave  break- 
ing up  into  reflected  longitudinal  and  shear  waves  at  the  boundary.  This 
effect  is  small  if  the  diameter  of  the  rod  is  20  wave-lengths  or  more. 

The  measured  losses  for  aluminum  rods  show  a  component  proportional 
to  the  frequency  and  another  component  proportional  to  the  fourth  power 
of  the  frequency.  The  first  component  is  the  hysteresis  loss  found  for  most 
solid  materials.  The  component  proportional  to  the  fourth  power  of  the 
frequency  is  caused  by  Rayleigh  scattering  losses  which  are  the  result  of 
differences  in  the  elastic  constants  between  adjacent  grains  caused  by 
changes  in  orientation.  Calculated  scattering  losses  agree  quite  well  with 
the  measured  values.  The  fourth-power  scattering  law  holds  quite  well 
until  the  grain  size  is  equal  to  one-third  of  a  wave-length.  For  higher  fre- 
quencies the  scattering  loss  increases  more  nearly  with  the  square  of  the 
frequency.  Glasses  and  fused  quartz  have  a  loss  directly  proportional  to 
the  frequency,  showing  that  any  irregularities  must  be  of  very  small  size. 

The  Growth  of  Auditory  Sensation}"^  W.  A.  Munson.  The  integration  of 
sensation  with  respect  to  time  was  studied  experimentally  by  means  of  tones 

'"PAyj. /?«;.,  :\ugU8t  1,1947. 

^^  Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  Amer.,  May  1947. 

^^  Jour.  Acous.  .Soc.  Amer.,  July  1947. 


ABSTRACTS  OF  TECHNICAL  ARTICLES  179 

of  short  duration.  Loudness  tests  were  made  on  sounds  persisting  from 
0.005  to  0.2  second  and  covering  a  wide  range  of  levels.  The  observed  in- 
crease in  magnitude  of  a  sensation  as  the  duration  time  is  increased  is 
attributed  to  the  integration  characteristic  of  the  central  nervous  system, 
and  an  equivalent  electrical  circuit  is  derived.  The  circuit  analogy  is  then 
used  in  the  computation  of  loudness  as  a  function  of  the  duration  of  the 
stimulus. 

The  Physics  of  Electronic  Semiconductors.^^  G.  L.  Pearson.  The  band 
theory  of  solids  is  capable  of  explaining  such  fundamental  properties  of  elec- 
tronic semiconductors  as  the  dependency  of  specific  resistance  on  impurity 
content,  the  negative  temperature  coefficient  of  resistance,  the  sign  of  the 
Hall  and  thermoelectric  effects,  and  the  direction  of  rectification.  Measure- 
ments of  the  specific  resistance  and  the  Hall  constant  enable  the  calculation 
of  density,  mobility,  and  mean  free  path  of  the  electric  carriers  as  a  function 
of  temperature  and  impurity. 

Automatic  Frequency  Control  of  Microwave  Oscillators M  Vincent  C. 
RiDEOUT.  A  method  for  the  automatic  frequency  control  of  any  type  of 
tunable  microwave  oscillator  is  described.  In  this  method  a  servomechan- 
ism  is  used  which  includes  a  wave-guide  discriminator  circuit,  a  mercury- 
contact  relay,  a  60-cycle  amplifier,  and  a  small  two-phase  induction  motor. 

Tests  made  on  a  preliminary  model  of  a  circuit  of  this  type  used  with  a 
4000-megacycle  oscillator  showed  that  a  stability  of  one  part  in  50,000  was 
obtainable.  The  manner  in  which  such  a  control  system  may  be  used  in  a 
microwave  repeater  is  described. 

Proposed  Method  of  Rating  Microphones  and  Loudspeakers  for  Systems 
Use}^  Frank  F.  Romanow  and  Melville  S.  Hawley.  Proposed,  is  a 
method  of  rating  microphones  and  loudspeakers  whereby  the  over-all  per- 
formance of  a  sound  system  may  be  determined  by  adding  together  the 
microphone  and  loudspeaker  ratings  and  the  gain  of  the  interconnecting 
network.  This  sum  gives  the  performance  quite  accurately  for  most  sys- 
tems. However,  in  some  combinations  of  elements  correction  terms  must 
be  added.     The  formulas  for  these  correction  terms  are  derived. 

The  proposed  microphone  and  loudspeaker  ratings  have  the  additional 
usefulness  of  being  in  a  form  which  permits  the  comparison  of  instruments 
of  different  impedances. 

Sulfur  Linkage  in  Vulcanized  Rubber}^  Milton  L.  Selker  and  A.  R. 
Kemp.  The  reaction  of  2-methyl-2-butene  with  sulfur  at  141. 6°C.  was 
studied.     Reaction  time  and  concentration  paralleled  those  common  in 

i3£/ec.£»gg.,  July  1947. 

^^Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  August  1947. 

15  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  Waves  and  Electrons  Section,  September  1947. 

i«  Indus.  &  Engg.  Chem.,  July  1947. 


180  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

rubber-sulfur  vulcanization.  The  results  offer  further  insight  into  the  vul- 
canization problem.  The  products  of  the  reaction  are  liquids  of  the  polysul- 
fide  type  R-Sx-R,  where  x  varies  from  2  to  6  and  R  is  an  alkyl  or  alkenyl 
group  and  two  solids  (CsHcSs  and  a  higher  homolog).  The  polysuliides  ap- 
pear to  be  somewhat  richer  in  hydrogen  than  is  expected  from  reaction  of 
two  CsHio  molecules,  whereas  the  solids  are  hydrogen-poor.  The  structure 
of  an  acid  anhydride  in  the  sulfur  system  showing  thione-thiol  tautomerism 
is  proposed  for  CsHeSs,  which  is  therefore  2 , 5-dithione-3-methyltetrahy- 
drothiophene.  ■  The  color  changes  with  reaction  time,  from  yellow  to  red  to 
black,  parallel  those  of  rubber-sulfur  vulcanizates.  As  in  rubber-sulfur 
vulcanization  the  sulfur  reaction  rate  is  directly  proportional  to  time,  al- 
though the  absolute  rate  is  twice  that  in  the  polymer  system.  Starting  with 
equal  mole  quantities  of  olefin  and  sulfur,  there  is  a  considerable  amount  of 
unreacted  olefin  in  the  system  when  all  of  the  sulfur  has  reacted.  The 
shorter  the  reaction  time,  the  higher  the  value  of  x  in  the  polysulfide 
R-Sx-R  and  the  larger  the  percentage  of  residues  R  that  are  saturated. 

On  Hearing  in  Water  vs.  Hearing  in  Air}''  L.  J.  Sivian.  The  paper  deals 
with  the  ability  of  a  submerged  listener  to  hear  sounds  generated  in  the  air 
above  him,  compared  with  their  audibility  when  his  head  projects  above  the 
water.  In  a  theoretical  discussion  it  is  shown  that  at  1000  c.p.s.  a  loss  of 
the  order  of  45-55  db  might  be  expected  in  the  in-water  audibility  relative  to 
the  in-air  value.  This  involves  a  number  of  assumptions,  e.g.,  that  there  is 
no  appreciable  noise  created  by  the  listener's  propulsion,  and  that  the  effect 
of  hydrostatic  pressure  unbalance  on  the  eardrum  is  negligible.  A  few 
measurements  made  at  1000  c.p.s.  and  3000  c.p.s.  yielded  values  which  are 
not  at  variance  with  the  theoretical  analysis. 

Cathode  Phase  Inverter  Design}^  C.  W.  Vadersen.  Part  I  of  this  paper 
covers  the  general  analysis  of  the  cathode  coupled  phase  inverter  and  de- 
velops formulae  that  enable  the  designer  to  compute  circuit  elements  with 
good  accuracy.  The  theory  developed  shows  that  degeneration  exists  only 
in  the  driven  side  of  the  amplifier  and  is  limited  to  6  decibels.  Balance  is 
discussed  in  terms  of  the  tube  parameters  and  external  resistances,  its  being 
shown  that  considerable  stability  is  attainable.  A  form  of  the  inverter  in 
which  the  power  output  stage  utilizes  a  transformer  with  an  unbalanced 
plate  winding  is  presented.  This  is  shown  to  give  a  true  power  balance  in  a 
manner  analogous  to  the  unbalanced  plate  resistor  form  of  the  voltage 
amplifying  inverter. 

Part  II  presents  a  graph  of  the  general  design  equations  and  illustrates  its 
use  with  several  working  examples. 

"  Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  Amer.,  May  1947. 
^*  Audio  Engineering,  June  and  July  1947. 


Contributors  to  this  Issue 

Winston  E.  Kock,  B.E.,  University  of  Cincinnati,  1932;  M.S.,  1933; 
Ph.D.,  University  of  Berlin,  1934.  Institute  for  Advanced  Study,  Prince- 
ton, New  Jersey,  1935-36.  Director  of  Electronic  Research,  Baldwin  Piano 
Company,  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  1936-42.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Re- 
search Department,  1942-.  Dr.  Kock  was  engaged  in  radar  antenna  work 
in  the  Radio  Research  Department  during  the  war.  He  is  now  engaged  in 
microwave  and  acoustic  research. 

W.  D.  Lewis,  A.B.  in  Communication  Engineering,  Harvard  College, 
1935;  Rhodes  Scholar,  Wadham  College,  Oxford;  B.A.  in  Mathematics, 
Oxford,  1938;  Ph.D.  in  Physics,  Harvard,  1941.  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, Inc.,  1941-.  Dr.  Lewis  was  engaged  in  radar  antenna  work  in  the 
Radio  Research  Department  during  the  war;  he  is  now  engaged  in  micro- 
wave repeater  systems  research. 

L.  A.  Meacham,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  University  of  Washing- 
ton, 1929;  Certificate  of  Research,  Cambridge  University,  England,  1930. 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1930-.  From  1930  to  1941  Mr.  Meacham's 
work  dealt  with  crystal  oscillators,  multivibrators,  phase  shifters,  and  other 
devices  used  in  precision  standards  of  frequency.  During  the  war  he  devel- 
oped range  measuring  devices  for  radar,  and  has  since  been  concerned  with 
applications  of  pulse  techniques  to  multiplex  telephony. 

E.  Peterson,  Cornell  University,  .1911-14;  Brooklyn  Polytechnic,  E.E. 
1917;  Columbia  University,  A.M.  1923;  Ph.D.  1926.  Electrical  Testing 
Laboratories,  1915-17;  Signal  Corps,  U.  S.  Army,  1917-19.  Western  Elec- 
tric Company,  Engineering  Department,  1919-25;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, 1925-.  Lecturer  in  Electrical  Engineering,  Columbia,  1934-.  As 
circuit  research  engineer.  Dr.  Peterson's  work  has  been  largely  in  theoretical 
studies  of  non-linear  circuits  and  circuit  elements. 

J.  R.  Pierce,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  California  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology, 1933;  Ph.D.,  1936.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1936- .  Engaged 
in  study  of  vacuum  tubes. 

S.  O.  Rice,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  Oregon  State  College,  1929; 
California  Institute  of  Technology,   1929-30,   1934-35.     Bell  Telephone 

181 


182  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Laboratories,  1930-.    Mr.  Rice  has  been  concerned  with  various  theoretical 
investigations  relating  to  telephone  transmission  theory. 

V.  C.  RiDEOUT,  B.Sc.  in  Engineering  Physics,  University  of  Alberta,  1938; 
M.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  California  Institute  of  Technology,  1940. 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  1939-1946.  Department  of  Electrical 
Engineering,  University  of  Wisconsin,  1946-.  During  the  war  Mr.  Rideout 
worked  in  the  Research  Department  on  various  components  for  radar  sys- 
tems ;  after  the  war  he  worked  on  frequency  control  systems  and  on  interme- 
diate frequency  power  amplifiers  for  microwave  repeater  systems. 

R.  W.  Sears,  A.B.  Ohio  Wesleyan  University,  1928;  M.S.,  Ohio  State 
University,  1929.  Columbia  University,  1930-1935.  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  1929-.  Mr.  Sears  has  been  engaged  in  research  work  on  ther- 
mionics  and  semiconductors.  Since  1939  he  has  been  primarily  concerned 
with  the  development  of  electron  tubes. 

L.  C.  TiLLOTSON,  B.S.  in  E.E.,  University  of  Idaho,  1938;  M.S.  in  E.E., 
University  of  Missouri,  1941.  Instructor  in  Electrical  Engineering,  Univer- 
sity of  Missouri,  1940-41.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  1941-. 
During  the  war  Mr.  Tillotson  was  engaged  in  the  design  and  development 
of  wave  filters  and  other  transmission  networks.  In  1946  he  was  transferred 
to  the  Radio  Research  Department  and  since  that  time  has  been  concerned 
with  microwave  repeater  systems  research. 


VOLUME  XXVII  APRIL,   1948  no.  2 


rmatOnn 
THE  BELL  SYSTEM*"""^* 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

DEVOTED  TO  THE  SCIENTIFIC  AND  ENGINEERING  ASPECTS 
OF  ELECTRICAL  COMMUNICATION 


Microwave  Repeater  Research H.  T.  Friis  183 

The   Measurement    of    Delay   Distortion   in   Microwave 

Repeaters D,  H,  Ring  247 

Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy — ^Radio  and  Wire  Applications 

J.  R.  Davey  and  A.  L.  Matte  265 

Reflections  from  Circular  Bends   in   Rectangular  Wave 

Guides— Matrix  Theory. S.  O.  Rice  305 

The  Approximate  Solution  of  Linear  Differential  Equations 

Marion  C.  Gray  and  S.  A.  Schelkunoff  350 

Potential     Coefficients     for     Ground    Return     Circuits 

W.  Howard  Wise  365 

Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors.  .   372 

Contributors  to  this  Issue 377 


AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK 


30^  per  copy  $1.50  per  Year 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Published  quarterly  by  the 

American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

195  Broadway,  New  York,  N,  Y, 


EDITORS 

R.  W.  King  J.  O.  Perrine 

EDITORIAL  BOARD 

W.  H.  Harrison  O.  E.  Buckley 

O.  B.  Blackwell  M.  J.  Kelly 

H.  S.  Osborne  A.  B.  Clark 

J.  J.  PiUiod  F.  J.  Feely 


SUBSCRIPTIONS 

Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $1.50  per  year.     Single  copies  are  50  cents  each, 
The  foreign  postage  is  35  cents  per  year  or  9  cents  per  copy. 


i»ii»M»iH  n 


Copyright,  1948 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


PRINTED  IN  U.S.  A. 


The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal 

Vol.XXVII  April,  1948  No.  2 

Microwave  Repeater  Research 

By  H.  T.  FRIIS 

Introduction 

TT  was  some  80  years  ago  that  Maxwell  and  Hertz  demonstrated  that 
-*-  free  space  is  a  good  transmission  medium  for  electromagnetic  waves. 
Since  this  fundamental  contribution,  the  radio  art  has  advanced  tremen- 
dously and  a  decade  ago  it  had  progressed  to  the  point  where  it  was  possible  to 
construct  equipment  suitable  for  quantitative  propagation  studies  of  micro- 
waves. Such  studies  were  made  and  they  indicated  that  normal  propagation 
over  "line-of-sight"  paths  of  signals  of  10  to  20  centimeters  wavelength 
was  characterized  by  free  space  attenuation  and  freedom  from  atmospheric 
interference.  These  results,  together  with  the  facts  that  in  this  wavelength 
range  wide  bands  of  frequencies  are  available  and  it  is  possible  to  design 
small  antennas  having  high  directivity,  encouraged  us  to  start  more  com- 
prehensive research  work  on  microwave  repeater  circuits.  This  paper  gives 
the  present  status  of  the  work  which  was  interrupted  by  our  war  efforts  and 
resumed  at  the  end  of  the  war  with  the  construction  of  an  experimental 
New  York-Boston  system  as  an  initial  objective. 

The  first  section  will  describe  our  propagation  studies.  It  will  be  followed 
by  sections  on  repeater  circuit  planning,  antennas,  radio  frequency  channel 
filters,  the  construction  and  testing  of  the  repeater  amplifier,  and  a  conclud- 
ing section  on  the  whole  repeater. 

I.  Propagation  Studies* 

Vhat  portion  of  the  radio  frequency  spectrum  represented  by  wave- 
lengths shorter  than  about  five  meters  has  long  been  considered  as  the  proper 
domain  for  point-to-point  communication  links,  local  broadcasting,  and 
mobile  radio  communication.  Since  these  ultra-short  waves  are  not  re- 
flected by  the  ionosphere,  their  effective  range  is  not  much  greater  than  the 
horizon  distance  and  it  therefore  becomes  possible  for  a  number  of  stations, 
properly  separated,  to  operate  in  the  same  frequency  band;  for  the  same 
reason,  atmospheric  interference  is  not  an  important  factor  in  this  wave- 

*  This  section  was  prepared  by  A.  B.  Crawford  who,  with  W.  M.  Sharpless,  is  at  present 
engaged  in  microwave  propagation  studies. 

183 


184  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

length  range.  Also,  as  the  wavelength  decreases,  it  becomes  possible  to 
construct  antennas  large  in  comparison  with  the  wavelength  so  that  high 
antenna  gains  are  obtained  and  the  corresponding  directivity  further  re- 
duces the  interference  areas. 

Since  about  1930,  with  the  exception  of  the  war  years,  we  have  conducted 
fundamental  studies  in  radio  propagation,  taking  advantage  of  advances  in 
the  art  to  extend  the  wavelength  range  from  about  four  meters  (ultra-short 
wave  region)  in  the  beginning  to  1.25  centimeters  (microwave  region)  at 
the  present  time.  A  considerable  portion  of  the  effort  of  those  engaged  in 
propagation  studies  has,  of  necessity,  been  devoted  to  the  development  of 
measurement  techniques  and  reliable  measuring  apparatus.  The  present 
discussion,  however,  will  be  concerned  with  the  results  of  experiments  rather 
than  with  a  description  of  the  apparatus  and  methods.  Most  of  these 
results  have  been  described  in  the  Uterature;  the  following  is  a  review  in- 
tended to  show  the  development  of  the  background  leading  to  the  present 
field  trial  of  a  microwave  repeater  circuit. 

The  object  in  making  propagation  studies  has  been  to  evaluate  and  to 
understand  the  effects  of  the  terrain  and  of  the  lower  atmosphere  upon  the 
transmission  of  ultra-short-wave  and  microwave  signals.  The  evaluation 
is  usually  obtained  by  amassing  sufficient  data  on  a  particular  transmission 
experiment  so  that  a  statistical  analysis  can  be  made.  Efforts  to  under- 
stand the  transmission  phenomena  usually  take  the  form  of  experiments 
involving  specially  designed  apparatus.  These  experiments  are  varied 
from  time  to  time  as  information  is  obtained  or  as  it  becomes  desirable  to 
check  the  validity  of  such  theories  as  may  be  devised.  The  hope  is  always 
present  that  an  understanding  of  the  phenomena  may  suggest  a  means  for 
reducing  the  transmission  difficulties. 

The  absence  of  ionospheric  reflections  at  these  frequencies  suggested  at  the 
start  that  propagation  studies  would  probably  be  concerned  mainly  with 
phenomena  familiar  in  optics,  namely:  reflection,  refraction  and  diffraction. 
Two  of  the  early  papers^*  ^  treated  ultra-short-wave  propagation  from  this 
viewpoint.  It  was  soon  observed  that  diffracted  signals  tended  to  be  un- 
stable in  the  shadow  region ;  furthermore,  as  the  wavelength  is  decreased  the 
shadows  cast  by  obstacles  such  as  hills  or  the  bulge  of  the  earth  itself  become 
more  sharply  defined.  For  these  reasons,  a  considerable  part  of  our  ex- 
perimental work  has  been  done  on  paths  for  which  a  Une-of-sight  exists  be- 
tween transmitter  and  receiver.  The  chief  interest,  therefore,  has  been  in 
ground  reflections  and  the  effect  of  the  atmosphere. 

1  J.  C.  Schelleng,  C.  R.  Burrows  and  E.  B.  Ferrell,  "Ultra-Short-Wave  Propagation", 
Proc,  L  R.  E.,  vol.  21,  pp  427^63;  March  1933. 

« C.  R.  Englund,  A.  B.  Crawford  and  W.  W.  Mumford,  "Some  Results  of  a  Study  of 
Ultra-Short  Wave  Transmission  Phenomena",  Proc.  L  R.  E.,  vol.  21,  pp  464r492;  March 
1933. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  185 

Ground  Reflections 

Some  of  our  first  experiments  with  ultra-short-waves  showed  that  regular 
reflections  were  obtained  locally  from  open,  relatively  flat  fields.  The 
reflection  coefficients  were  in  good  agreement  with  theory.  Later,  measure- 
ments of  propagation  between  a  transmitter  located  on  a  hill  top  and  a 
receiver  carried  in  an  airplane^  showed  that  for  near-grazing  angles  of  in- 
cidence, the  irregular  and  wooded  terrain,  typical  of  the  New  Jersey  country- 
side, could  give  rise  to  regular  reflections  at  wavelengths  as  short  as  four 
meters.  The  depth  of  the  minima  in  received  signal  strength,  caused  by 
wave  interference  between  the  direct  and  ground  reflected  components,  cor- 
responded to  a  reflection  coefficient  of  about  0.9.  In  1939,  unpublished 
results  obtained  over  the  39-mile  Beer's  Hill-Lebanon  optical  path  (See  map 
of  Fig.  I-l)  indicated  that  for  a  wavelength  of  30  centimeters  the  reflection 
coefficient  was  still  large,  about  0.8. 

More  recently,  microwave  propagation  studies  have  been  made  over  the 
same  type  of  terrain  at  wavelengths  of  3.25  centimeters  and  1.25  centimeters 
and  the  situation  in  regard  to  ground  reflections  seems  to  have  changed 
somewhat.  Experiments  were  conducted  over  the  12.6  mile  Beer's  Hill-Deal 
path  in  which  the  height  of  the  transmitting  terminal  was  varied  and  which 
also  made  use  of  narrow-beam  scanning  antennas  to  separate  the  direct  wave 
from  a  possible  ground  reflected  component.  The  results  showed  the 
apparent  reflection  coefficient  to  be  of  the  order  of  0.2  at  3.25  centimeters 
and  to  be  even  less  at  1.25  centimeters.  Figure  1-2  shows  typical  curves 
of  signal  level  versus  transmitter  heights  for  wavelengths  of  3.25  and  1.25 
centimeters.  Actually,  the  shapes  of  the  curves  can  be  accounted  for  better 
by  diffraction,  for  which  the  hill  about  two  miles  from  Deal  is  considered  to 
be  a  straight  edge,  than  by  reflection  from  an  assumed  average  ground 
plane.  The  true  picture  is  probably  a  combination  of  reflection  and 
diffraction  effects. 

In  an  effort  to  minimize  ground  reflection,  over-water  paths  were  avoided 
in  the  layout  of  the  New  York-Boston  microwave  repeater  circuit  and  as  a 
final  check  a  number  of  variable  antenna-height  tests*  were  made  in  the 
preliminary  survey  of  all  sites.  A  few  curves  obtained  at  a  wavelength  of 
7  centimeters  are  reproduced  in  Fig.  1-3.  Similar  results  were  observed 
during  a  survey  of  sites  between  Chicago  and  Milwaukee. 

It  is  concluded,  therefore,  that  although  in  the  wavelength  range  down  to 
30  centimeters,  at  least,  the  effects  of  ground  reflection  must  be  taken  into 
account  in  the  choice  of  sites  for  an  optical  path  radio  circuit,  in  the  lower 
microwave  range,  below  say  10  centimeters,  scattering  and  absorption  of  the 
reflected  wave  by  rough  terrain  and  vegetation  usually  results  in  sub- 
stantially free-space  propagation  under  normal  conditions  when  the  line  of 

*  F.  F.  Merriam  was  in  charge  of  this  work. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


187 


sight  is  well  clear  of  intervening  obstructions.  In  order  to  have  a  rule-of- 
thumb  as  to  the  amount  of  path  clearance  desirable,  we  have  suggested  that 
the  first  Fresnel  region  should  be  clear  of  all  obstacles.  The  first  Fresnel 
region  for  a  given  transmitter  and  receiver  is  bounded  by  points  for  which  the 
length  of  the  path,  transmitter  to  point  to  receiver,  is  greater  by  one-half 


beer  s  hill 
(receiver; 


353' 


^  +2 


-8 


BEER'S    HILL— DEAL   PROFILE 


4  5  6  7  8 

DISTANCE    IN     MILES 


DEAL 
(TRANSMITTER) 

h 

i. 
12    12.63 


/ 

p— X 

\ 

/ 

^ 

V 

/\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

y 

\y 

/ 

/ 

A  =  3.25  CM 

/ 

/ 

/ 

"\ 

/ 

\ 

^^ 

^, 

^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

'' 

A  =  1.25  CM 

/ 

110         120        130        140        150        160        170        180       190 
TRANSMITTER    HEIGHT   IN    FEET  (ABOVE    SEA  LEVEL) 


200 


Fig.  1-2. — ^Variable  antenna-height  tests  on  Beer's  Hill-Deal  Path. 


wavelength  than  the  direct  path  from  transmitter  to  receiver;  its  cross- 
section  by  any  plane  perpendicular  to  the  direct  path  is  the  first  Fresnel 
zone  in  the  sense  used  in  optics.  A  wave  can  be  transmitted  with  practically 
no  loss  through  an  opening  whose  area  is  of  the  order  of  the  first  Fresnel 
zone.  Also,  in  the  case  of  a  smooth  reflecting  surface  between  transmitter 
and  receiver,  the  first  Fresnel  zone  clearance  provides  a  maximum  in  re- 


188 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ceived  field  strength  since  the  half  wavelength  path  difference  plus  the  180- 
degree  phase  change  at  reflection  causes  the  direct  wave  and  the  reflected 
wave  to  arrive  in  phase  at  the  receiver.  In  Fig.  1-4,  the  first  Fresnel  region 
is  sketched  on  the  profile  map  of  a  typical  microwave  link  for  wavelengths 
of  3  meters  and  3  centimeters. 

It  should  be  emphasized  that  the  above  remarks  on  ground  reflections 
apply  only  for  rough  terrain  and  for  the  case  of  reflection  at  a  distance  from 


0 

-2 

-4 

_i 
ai 

m  -6 
u 

UJ 

Q 


(0 

_l 

o 
if) 
-4 

UJ 

> 

UJ 

a. 
-8 


-10 


-12 


A-ICU 


I 

z' 

"^ 

/~ 

\ 

/ 

f  \ 

H*--TREE  HEIGHT 

] 

r 

^ 

1  |^--TREE  HEIGHT 

\ 

\ 

1 

Y^ 

\ 

^ 

_^ 

'^ 

\ 

U— -TREE  HEIGHT 

1 

1 

1 ' 

^ 

1  U-  —  TREE  HEIGHT 

1 

20 


60        70       80  0         10        20 
ANTENNA   HEIGHT   IN  FEET 


40        50       60 


70 


Fig.  1-3. — Variable  antenna-height  tests  on  several  of  the  New  York-Boston 
repeater  circuits.    X  =  7  cm. 


the  terminals.  Variable  height  experiments  involving  short  distances  over 
open  flat  fields  reveal  the  presence  of  almost  perfect  ground  reflections  at 
wavelengths  as  short  as  1.25  centimeters.  For  transmission  paths  over 
water,  strongly  reflected  components  are  often  observed.  Reports'  of 
experiments  in  the  Arizona  desert  indicate  a  strong  ground  reflection  at 
wavelength  of  3  centimeters.  In  such  locations,  and  most  likely  in  the 
plains  regions,  the  presence  of  substantial  ground  reflected  components  may 
prove  to  be  troublesome. 

»  Report  No.  6.     Electrical  Engineering  Research  Laboratory,  The  University  of  Texas, 
February  1, 1947. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


189 


190  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Atmospheric  Refraction 

As  in  the  case  of  ground  reflection,  the  refractive  effect  of  the  atmosphere 
has  been  found  to  play  a  somewhat  varying  role,  depending  upon  the  wave- 
length employed.  In  some  of  the  early  work  on  ultra-short-wave  propaga- 
tion,^' 2  the  concept  of  average  atmospheric  refraction  was  found  to  bring 
about  better  agreement  between  observed  and  calculated  results.  Due  to 
the  variation  of  temperature  and  water  vapor  content  of  the  atmosphere 
with  height  above  ground,  the  dielectric  constant  of  the  atmosphere  nor- 
mally decreases  with  height.  The  effect  of  this  negative  dielectric  constant 
gradient  is  to  cause  the  path  of  a  radio  wave  to  be  bent  slightly  downward 
toward  the  earth,  thus  effectively  increasing  the  horizon  distance.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  a  good  approximation  for  average  refraction  was  to 
assume  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  ray  to  be  four  times  that  of  the  earth.^ 
This  condition  is  used  at  the  present  time  to  describe  a  ''standard  atmos- 
phere." 

It  was  soon  found,  however,  that  atmospheric  refraction  could  vary  be- 
tween rather  wide  limits  depending  chiefly  on  the  gradient  of  water  vapor 
with  height.^  Refraction  effects  were  found  to  be  greater  in  summer  than 
in  winter  since  the  air  contains  a  higher  percentage  of  water  vapor  in  the 
summertime.  A  diurnal  variation  in  refraction  was  also  observed  on  over- 
land transmission  paths.  During  the  day,  rising  convection  currents  and 
surface  winds,  caused  by  surface  heating  of  the  earth,  usually  produce  a 
well  mixed  atmosphere  near  the  earth  so  that  "standard"  atmospheric 
conditions  prevail.  On  clear  nights,  however,  particularly  if  the  wind  veloc- 
ity is  low,  radiation  cooling  of  the  earth  may  cause  a  temperature  inversion 
in  the  lower  atmosphere;  if,  also,  the  water  vapor  decreases  with  height,  the 
combined  temperature  and  water  vapor  effects  may  add  to  produce  a  steep 
negative  gradient  in  the  dielectric  constant.  Stormy  weather  and  over- 
cast skies  usually  result  in  standard  atmospheric  conditions. 

Most  of  the  signal  variations  observed  during  a  two-year  study  of  propaga- 
tion of  two  and  four-meter  waves  over  the  39-mile  over-land  optical  path 
between  Beer's  Hill,  N.  J.  and  Lebanon,  N.  J.^  could  be  explained  satis- 
factorily on  the  basis  of  wave  interference  between  direct  and  ground- 
reflected  radiations;  the  relative  path  lengths,  and  hence  the  phases,  of  these 
two  components  of  the  received  field  varied  with  the  refractivity  of  the 
atmosphere.  The  fading  on  the  two  wavelengths  was  usually  similar  in 
major  detail  as  might  be  expected  from  the  geometry  of  the  path.     On  the 

»'»Loc.  cit. 

*  Englund,  Crawford  and  Mumford,  "Further  Studies  of  Ultra-Short-Wave  Transmis- 
sion Phenomena",  B.  S.  T.  J.,  vol.  14,  pp  369-387;  July  1935. 

'  Englund,  Crawford  and  Mumford,  "Ultra-Short-Wave  Transmission  over  a  39  mile 
'Optical'  Path",  Proc,  I.  K.  E.,  vol.  28,  pp.  360-369;  August  1940. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  191 

few  occasions  when  the  fading  could  not  be  accounted  for  in  this  simple 
fashion,  it  was  assumed  that  signal  components  were  arriving  from  above 
by  virtue  of  reflections  from  small,  relatively  abrupt  changes  in  the  dielectric 
constant  of  the  atmosphere.  The  existence  of  such  reflections  was  demon- 
strated by  a  frequency-sweep  method  during  propagation  studies  on  the 
70  mile  over-water  path  between  Highlands,  N.  J.  and  East  Moriches,  Long 
Island.^ 

With  microwaves,  where,  as  stated  previously,  ground  reflections  are 
usually  small  or  absent,  one  might  surmise  that  changes  in  atmospheric 
refraction  would  have  a  smaller  effect  on  transmission  than  at  ultra-short- 
wavelengths  where  strong  ground  reflections  are  present,  and  that  fading 
should,  therefore,  be  less.  Actually  the  opposite  is  observed.  Fading  is 
found  to  be  more  frequent,  faster,  and  deeper  as  the  wavelength  is  decreased. 
This  frequency  effect  may  be  explained  in  a  qualitative  fashion  by  a  con- 
sideration of  the  relative  sizes  of  Fresnel  zones  at  ultra-short  waves  and  at 
microwaves.  It  is  know^n  that  the  dielectric  constant  of  the  atmosphere 
usually  does  not  vary  with  height  in  a  smooth  linear  manner;  on  calm  nights, 
particularly,  very  steep  gradients  in  the  dielectric  constant  may  exist  over 
small  vertical  ranges  measuring  only  tens  of  feet.  The  effectiveness  of  these 
steep  gradients  would  be  expected  to  depend  on  their  extent  relative  to  the 
size  of  a  Fresnel  zone.  Thus  on  a  path  such  as  that  in  Fig.  1-4,  a  steep  grad- 
ient extending  over  only  a  hundred  feet  would  include  practically  the  whole 
first  Fresnel  zone  at  3  centimeters  while  it  would  cover  only  a  small  part  of 
a  zone  at  3  meters  wavelength;  the  effective  gradient,  therefore,  would  be 
considerably  less  at  3  meters  than  at  3  centimeters.  Analyses  based  on 
wave  theory  show^  that  atmospheric  layers,  in  which  the  dielectric  constant 
has  a  steep  negative  gradient,  tend  to  confine  or  guide  the  radiation  in  much 
the  same  way  as  a  waveguide,  and  that  this  ^'trapping"  phenomenon,  for  a 
given  layer  thickness,  becomes  more  pronounced  as  the  wavelength  is  de- 
creased.' 

The  mechanism  of  microwave  propagation  is  certainly  a  complicated  one, 
and  a  considerable  amount  of  experimental  work  in  the  fields  of  radio  and 
meteorology  will  be  required  to  unravel  it.  However,  it  is  very  difficult  to 
interpret  the  radio  measurements  in  terms  of  meteorological  data.  The 
chief  difficulty  is  that  meteorological  measurements  often  do  not  give  an 
accurate  picture  of  the  atmosphere,  particularly  at  those  times  when  micro- 
wave fading  indicates  that  rapid  changes  of  some  sort  are  occurring  in  the 

^  Englund,  Crawford  and  Mumford,  "Ultra-Short-Wave  Transmission  and  Atmos- 
pheric Irregularities",  B.  S.  T.  /.,  vol.  17,  pp.  489-519;  October  1938. 

^  H.  G.  Booker,  in  England,  was  the  first  to  call  attention  to  this  phenomenon.  For 
more  recent  work  see:  C.  L.  Pekeris,  "Wave  Theoretical  Interpretation  of  Propagation  in 
Low-Level  Ocean  Ducts,  Proc.  I.  R.  £.,  vol.  35,  pp.  453-462;  May,  1947.  This  paper 
gives  references  to  other  work  in  this  field. 


192  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

atmosphere.  The  instruments  used  to  measure  temperature  and  humidity 
require  a  few  seconds  to  reach  equilibrium — a  length  of  time  comparable  at 
times  with  the  period  of  fading.  To  measure  the  variation  of  dielectric 
constant  with  height,  the  measuring  instruments  are  usually  carried  aloft 
by  means  of  captive  balloons.  A  half  hour  may  be  required  to  measure 
to  heights  of  six  or  seven  hundred  feet  with  the  result  that  the  final  curve 
represents  an  unknown  combination  of  variations  of  dielectric  constant  with 
height  and  with  time.  It  is  also  extremely  doubtful  that  the  atmosphere  is 
uniform  in  the  horizontal  plane — an  assumption  which  is  usually  made  in 
the  theoretical  treatment  of  microwave  propagation.  It  seems  likely  that 
the  lower  atmosphere  is  far  from  being  a  homogeneous  fluid  but  rather  may 
contain  small  air  masses  or  ''boulders"  with  properties  which  differ  con- 
siderably from  these  of  the  surrounding  air.  Reflections  from  these  boulders 
may  be  the  cause  of  radar  echoes  received  from  the  lower  atmosphere.^ 
Scintillation  fading  of  microwaves  is  another  evidence  of  these  inhomo- 
geneties  in  the  atmosphere.  Scintillation  fading,  a  rapid  fluctuation  in 
signal  level  about  a  more  or  less  steady  average  value,  increases  as  the  wave- 
length becomes  less  and  as  the  path  length  is  increased. 

In  order  to  evaluate,  on  a  statistical  basis,  the  effect  of  atmospheric 
changes  on  a  typical  microwave  circuit,  extensive  measurements  of  trans- 
mission were  made  over  a  40-mile  overland  path  between  New  York  City 
and  Neshanic,  New  Jersey.  The  tests  covered  a  period  of  about  two  years. 
Most  of  the  data  were  obtained  at  wavelengths  of  10,  6.5,  and  3.2  centimeters 
although  some  data  were  taken  at  wavelengths  of  42  centimeters  and  1.25 
centimeters.  The  results  are  described  in  a  recent  paper.®  In  many 
respects,  observations  were  in  agreement  with  those  made  earher  on  the 
39-mile  Beer's  Hill-Lebanon  path  at  wavelengths  of  4  and  2  meters  and  on 
the  38-mile  non-optical  path  between  Deal,  N.  J.  and  Lawrenceville,  N.  J. 
at  a  wavelength  of  2  meters.'^  The  same  seasonal  and  diurnal  trends  in 
fading  were  found;  transmission  was  generally  steady  during  the  midday 
hours  and  during  periods  of  windy  or  rainy  weather;  fading  was  the  same 
on  vertical  and  horizontal  polarizations.  However,  the  character  of  the 
fading  was  different ;  the  fading  at  microwaves  was  much  faster  and  deeper 
than  that  observed  on  the  ultra-short-wave  path.  The  average  daily  fading 
range  for  July  on  the  New  Yoik-Neshanic  path  was  20  db  at  6.5  centimeters 
compared  with  a  median  daily  fading  range  of  8.5  db  for  2.0  meters  observed 
in  July  on  the  Lebanon-Beer's  Hill  path. 

» H.  T.  Friis,  "Radar  Reflections  from  the  Lower  Atmosphere",  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol. 
35,  pp.  494-495;  May  1947  (Correspondence  Section). 

"  A.  L.  Durkee,  "Results  of  Microwave  Propagation  Tests  on  a  40-mile  Overland  Path", 
Proc.  I.  R.  £.,  vol.  36,  No.  2,  pp.  197-205,  Feb.  1948. 

i«  C.  R.  Burrows,  A.  Decino  and  L.  E.  Hunt,  "Stability  of  Two-Meter  Waves",  Proc, 
I.  R.  £.,  vol.  26,  pp.  516-528;  May  1938. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  193 

Other  observations  on  the  New  York-Neshanic  microwave  path  may  be 
summarized  as  follows:  While  all  the  wavelengths  were  affected  at  tunes 
of  anomalous  propagation,  the  shorter  wavelengths  faded  more  severely 
and  the  character  of  the  fading  was  different  from  that  observed  at  the  42 
centimeters  wavelength;  apparently  the  3-10  centimeter  range  was  more 
sensitive  to  the  fine  structure  of  the  atmosphere,  as  pointed  out  previously. 
During  non-fading  periods,  signal  levels  were  very  close  to  the  free-space 
values  with  the  exception  of  the  1.25  centimeter  signal  which  was  usually 
15  db  or  more  below  the  free  space  value  because  of  atmospheric  absorption 
effects.  Some  special  tests  showed  that  fading  was  considerably  more  severe 
when  one  of  the  terminals  was  lowered  so  that  the  transmission  path  was 
grazing  slightly  below  line-of-sight.  It  was  also  found  that  fading  was  about 
twice  as  great,  in  decibels,  on  the  whole  path  as  on  either  half-section.  A 
statistical  analysis,  on  an  hourly  basis,  of  all  the  data  on  6.5  centimeters 
showed  that  only  one-half  of  one  percent  of  the  total  hours  had  signal 
minima  deeper  than  20  db  below  the  free  space  field.  Also  during  August 
1,  the  day  of  the  most  severe  fading,  the  signal  was  more  than  20  db  below 
free  space  for  about  one-half  of  one  percent  of  the  time.  It  was  also  found 
that  signals  of  the  order  of  10  db  above  free  space  were  equally  probable. 
From  a  consideration  of  these  statistics,  it  was  decided  to  engineer  the  New 
York-Boston  repeater  circuit  with  —  20  to  +  10  db  allowance  for  fading 
on  each  link. 

Specialized  Experiments 

Much  of  our  more  recent  work  on  microwave  propagation  has  been  of  a 
specialized  nature  in  which  apparatus  and  experiments  have  been  designed 
more  for  the  purpose  of  studying  the  mechanism  of  anomalous  propagation 
than  for  making  a  statistical  analysis  of  the  transmission.  Perhaps  the  most 
informative  experiments  have  been  those  in  which  narrow  beam  scanning 
antennas  were  used  to  explore  the  incident  wave  fronts. 

The  first  of  these  antennas  had  an  aperture  of  20  feet  and  a  beam  width 
between  half-power  points  of  |  degree  at  the  design  wavelength  of  3.25 
centimeters.  It  was  built  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a  practical  limit 
to  the  size,  and  hence  the  directivity,  of  microwave  repeater  antennas  from 
the  standpoint  of  variations  in  the  angle  of  arrival  of  the  received  wave. 
It  had  been  realized,  of  course,  that  variations  in  the  refractivity  of  the 
atmosphere  would  cause  some  deviations  in  the  path  of  the  wave.  While 
these  deviations  should  be  negligible  in  comparison  with  the  beam  width 
of  antennas  normally  used  in  the  ultra-short-wave  region,  they  might  be 
comparable  with  the  beam  widths  readily  obtainable  in  the  microwave 
region. 


194  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Using  this  antenna  for  measurements  in  the  vertical  plane  and  another 
identical  antenna  for  measurements  in  the  horizontal  plane,  angle-of-arrival 
data  were  obtained  during  the  summer  of  1944  over  a  twenty-four  mile, 
partly  over-water,  path  between  Beer^s  Hill,  N.  J.  and  New  York  and  over 
a  thirteen  mile  over-land  path  between  Beer's  Hill,  N.  J.  and  Deal,  N.  J." 
In  the  horizontal  plane,  deviations  in  the  angle  of  arrival  were  rather  un- 
common and  were  not  greater  than  ±0.1  degree  from  the  true  bearing  of  the 
transmitter.  In  the  vertical  plane,  angles  of  arrival  above  the  true  elevation 
of  the  transmitter  were  observed  to  be  as  much  as  0.5  degree  on  the  New 
York  path  and  0.3  degree  on  the  Deal  path  during  times  of  anomalous  propa- 
gation. From  these  measurements  it  was  concluded  that  microwave  re- 
peater antennas  could  be  made  highly  directive  in  the  horizontal  plane  but 
should  have  beam  widths  somewhat  greater  than  J  degree  in  the  vertical 
plane  unless  means  for  steering  the  beams  are  provided. 

Although  the  J  degree  beam  width  of  these  scanning  antennas  was  sharp 
enough  to  permit  the  separation  of  the  direct  and  the  water-reflected  com- 
ponents on  the  New  York  path,  and  to  demonstrate  the  anomalous  behavior 
of  each,  there  was  evidence  that  occasionally  there  were  signal  components 
so  close  together  in  angle  that  a  sharper  antenna  would  be  required  to  resolve 
them.  Consequently  a  scanning  antenna  of  the  metal-lens  type  was  con- 
structed for  operation  at  1.25  centimeters.  The  aperture  of  this  antenna 
was  20  feet  in  the  long  dimension;  the  beam  width  was  0.12  degrees.  Using 
this  antenna  and  also  the  3.25  centimeter  scanning  antennas,  angle-of- 
arrival  measurements  were  made  in  the  summer  of  1945  on  the  Deal-Beer's 
Hill  path. ^2  xhe  most  noteworthy  result  of  these  observations  was  the 
demonstration  of  multiple-path  transmission.  Two,  three  and,  at  times, 
four  distinct  signal  components  were  observed  simultaneously  during  one 
night  when  the  transmission  was  extremely  disturbed.  These  transmission 
paths  generally  were  above  the  true  direction  of  the  transmitter;  at  one  time, 
a  weak  signal  was  arriving  at  an  angle  of  0.75  degree  relative  to  the  line  of 
sight.  These  components  varied  in  angle  of  arrival  and  in  signal  amplitude. 
Wave  interference  among  them  caused  severe  fading  on  broad  beam  antennas 
that  would  accept  all  the  wave  paths. 

Another  significant  result  of  these  angle-of-arrival  measurements  was 
evidence  that  the  transmission  mechanism  was  very  similar  for  wave- 
lengths of  3.25  and  1.25  centimeters.  Angles  of  arrival,  measured  simul- 
taneously at  the  two  wavelengths,  agreed  very  well  for  times  of  single-path 
transmission ;  multiple-path  transmission  was  observed  on  both  wavelengths 
although  the  3.25  centimeter  antenna  was  too  broad  to  resolve  the  com- 

"  W.  M.  Sharpless,  "Measurement  of  the  Angle  of  Arrival  of  Microwaves",  Froc. 
I.  R.  E.,  vol.  .34,  pp.  837-845;  November  1946. 

"  A.  B.  Crawford  and  W.  M.  Sharpless,  "Further  Observations  of  the  Angle  of  Arrival 
of  Microwaves",  Proc.  /.  R.  E.,  vol.  34,  pp.  845-848;  November,  1946. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  195 

ponents  completely.  This  result  suggested  that  the  1.25-centimeter  scan- 
ning antenna  might  be  a  very  useful  tool  for  investigating  the  fading  mech- 
anism at  7  centimeters  wavelength. 

The  22.8-mile  path  between  Crawford  Hill  and  a  hill  on  the  Murray  Hill 
Laboratory  property  was  chosen  for  study  as  a  representative  link  in  a 
repeater  circuit.  (See  Profile  Map,  Fig.  1-4.)  Transmitters  for  the  1.25- 
centimeter  and  7  centimeter  wavelengths  were  installed  in  the  100-foot  tower 
at  Murray  Hill.  At  the  Crawford  Hill  receiving  site  were  the  narrow-beam 
scanning  antenna  and  a  broad  beam  antenna  for  1.25-centimeter  operation; 
also  two  broad  beam  antennas,  spaced  vertically  15  feet,  for  7-centimeter 
operation.  In  addition,  a  1.25-centimeter  radar  could  be  operated  with  the 
scanning  antenna.  A  corner  reflector  target,  5J  feet  on  a  side,  was  located 
at  the  Murray  Hill  tower.  The  signal  reflected  by  this  target  was  about  10 
db  stronger  than  the  spurious  reflections  from  other  objects  at  the  same 
range.  By  making  use  of  this  target  and  ground  echoes  at  intermediate 
distances,  the  radar  technique  provided  a  considerable  amount  of  useful 
information  concerning  the  transmission  phenomena. 

Measurements  were  made  on  this  path  during  the  summer  of  1946.  As 
had  been  hoped,  the  observations  showed  that  transmission  on  1.25  centi- 
meters and  7  centimeters  was  often  affected  by  the  same  conditions  except, 
of  course,  for  atmospheric  absorption  effects  at  the  1.25-centimeter  wave- 
length. While  it  was  not  possible  to  arrive  at  explanations  for  all  the  fading 
observed,  the  deep  minima  in  the  7-centimeter  signal,  i.e.,  fades  to  levels 
of  15  to  20  db  or  more  below  the  free  space  field,  usually  were  the  result  of 
one  of  three  types  of  propagation*: — 

Type  1.  The  7-centimeter  fading  was  of  the  rapid,  large  amplitude  type 
characteristic  of  wave  interference.  The  1.25-centimeter  scanning  records 
showed  the  presence  of  multiple-path  transmission  in  which  two  or  more 
readily  separable  wave  paths  were  observed.  "  While  the  signals  on  both  of 
the  vertically-spaced  7-centimeter  antennas  faded  about  the  same  in  ampli- 
tude, their  signal  minima  did  not  occur  simultaneously.  A  space  diversity 
system  would  be  successful  in  reducing  the  effects  of  this  type  of  fading. 

Type  2.  The  7-centimeter  fading  was  somewhat  slower  than  in  Type  1, 
but  still  had  the  appearance  of  wave  interference.  The  1.25-centimeter 
scanning  records  appeared  to  be  of  the  single  path  variety.  However,  close 
inspection  showed  that,  in  all  probability,  more  than  one  transmission  path 
was  involved  but  the  0.12  degree  beam  of  the  antenna  was  not  sharp  enough 
to  resolve  them.  The  signals  received  on  the  vertically  spaced  7-centimeter 
antennas  faded  together  so  that  space  diversity  would  not  be  expected  to  be 
successful  unless  an  extremely  large  spacing  of  antennas  were  used. 

*  Recently,  on  a  different  overland  path  having  barely  one  Fresnel  zone  clearance, 
an  important  fourth  type  has  been  observed  when  atmospheric  refraction  gives  the  ray 
path  a  curvature  opposite  to  that  of  the  earth,  thus  effectively  reducing  the  path  clear- 
ance. 


196 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Type  3.  The  7-centimeter  signal  would  fade  to  a  low  level  and  remain 
there  for  a  considerable  period  of  time;  sometimes  for  an  hour  or  so.  The 
character  of  the  fading  was  unlike  that  caused  by  wave  interference.  The 
1.25-centimeter  signal  was  simultaneously  at  a  low  level  and  the  scanning 
records  showed  that  only  one  path  was  involved.     Reception  was  almost 


60 
50 
40 


20 


5   1.0 
Z  OS 

< 

"^0.6 

0.5 


0.3 
0.2 


0.1 


.-— o 

^ 

^ 

/ 

- 

.<?-/ 

^ 

- 

,\ 

y 

■f\ 

f 

y 

y^ 

.f 

\ 

f/ 

V 

/ 

/ 

y 

y 

y 

/ 

-/ 

^4\ 

y 

/ 

- 

/ 

/ 

^/ 

- 

/ 

/ 

/ 

o.  / 

/ 

p 

J/ 

f^ 

^ 

/ 

/ 

j^y 

^^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

s 

z 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

5  4  3  2  1.5 

WAVELENGTH,  A,  IN  CENTIMETERS 

Fig.  1-5. — Rain  attenuation  vs.  wavelength. 


1.0 


0.8    0.7      0.6 


identical  on  the  two  vertically-spaced  7-centimeter  antennas.  Radar 
observations  suggested  that  this  type  of  fading  was  due  to  attenuation  by  a 
reflecting  layer  in  the  atmosphere  at  a  height  intermediate  to  the  heights  of 
the  transmitters  and  receivers.  It  was  observed,  for  example,  that  while 
the  echo  from  the  Murray  Hill  corner  reflector  was  absent,  strong  echoes 
were  received  from  the  hill  directly  in  front  of  Murray  Hill  and  some  250 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  kESEARCE  197 

feet  lower  in  height;  sometimes  multiple  paths  were  observed  with  this  echo. 
Space  diversity  would  fail  to  improve  transmission  under  these  propagation 
conditions,  and  no  other  means  of  improvement  is  apparent  except,  perhaps, 
an  alternate  path.  Fortunately,  this  type  of  fading  was  the  least  frequent 
of  the  three  types  which  were  characterized  by  low  signal  levels. 

Rain  Attenuation  and  Atmospheric  Absorption 

Attenuation  effects  due  to  rainfall  and  absorption  by  atmospheric  gases 
become  increasingly  important  at  the  short-wave  end  of  the  microwave 
region.  Measurements  of  rain  attenuation  have  been  made  at  the  Holmdel 
Laboratory^'-  ^*;  the  results  are  summarized  in  Fig.  1-5.  These  curves  show 
that  for  wavelengths  above  about  5  centimeters,  rain  attenuation  is  not  very 
serious  except  for  rains  of  cloudburst  proportions.  However,  at  wavelengths 
of  one  centimeter  and  less,  even  moderate  rainfall  will  cause  large  attenu- 
ations on  paths  of  the  order  of  10-20  miles  in  length. 

Absorption  by  atmospheric  gases,  principally  water  vapor  and  oxygen, 
becomes  important  at  wavelengths  below  about  1 .5  centimeters.  According 
to  the  theoretical  work  of  Dr.  J.  H.  Van  Vleck,  Harvard  University,  water 
vapor  has  an  absorption  band  at  1  .?>?>  centimeters  and  oxygen  has  bands  at 
0.5  and  0.25  centimeters.  Measurements  made  on  the  Deal-Holmdel  path 
at  1.25  centimeters  were  in  fair  agreement  with  Van  Vleck's  results  and 
indicated  that  a  typical  value  of  atmospheric  absorption  for  this  locality 
in  summertime  is  about  0.4  db  per  mile.^^ 

Summary 

In  the  ultra-short-wave  region,  transmission  has  been  found  to  be  affected 
mainly  by  ground  reflections  and  variable  atmospheric  refraction;  only 
occasionally  are  atmospheric  reflecting  layers  and  trapping  phenomena  in- 
volved. These  wavelengths  ordinarily  are  not  transmitted  to  great  dis- 
tances along  the  surface  of  the  earth,  but  are  diffracted  around  obstacles. 
They  are  used  for  local  broadcasting  and  mobile  radio  communication. 

Microwaves  are  attractive  for  radio  repeater  circuits  since  they  permit 
the  use  of  wide  transmission  bands.  Ground  reflections  are  apparently  of 
small  importance  with  terrain  such  as  that  of  the  Eastern  seaboard  and  sub- 
stantially free-space  propagation  is  obtained  during  non-fading  periods  over 
optical  paths  which  have  approximately  "first  Fresnel  region"  clearance. 
Atmospheric  reflecting  layers  and  trapping  phenomena  are  frequently  ob- 
served and  signal  variations  are  considerably  greater  than  in  the  ultra- 

13  Sloan  D.  Robertson  and  Archie  P.  King,  "The  Effect  of  Rain  upon  the  Propagation 
of  Waves  in  the  1-  and  3-Centimeter  Regions",  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol.  34,  pp.  178P-180P; 
April  1946. 

"  G.  E.  Mueller,  "Propagation  of  6-Millimeter  Waves",  Proc.  I.  R.  £.,  vol.  34,  pp.  181P- 
183P;  AprU  1946. 


198  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

short-wave  region.  Although  fading  becomes  worse  as  the  wavelength  is 
decreased,  the  advantages  of  increased  antenna  gain  and  directivity  possible 
at  the  shorter  wavelengths  suggest  the  use  of  a  wavelength  just  above  the 
region  where  rain  attenuation  becomes  objectionable;  i.e.  above  about  5 
centimeters. 

The  use  of  two  antennas,  operated  in  space  diversity,  should  reduce  the 
effects  of  fading  caused  by  multiple-path  transmission.  The  use  of  space 
diversity  may  be  essential  in  those  localities  where  strong  ground  reflections 
are  present.  On  the  basis  of  the  comparatively  weak  ground  reflections 
measured  on  the  New  York-Boston  path  it  was  decided  to  avoid  the  com- 
plications that  would  result  from  the  use  of  space  diversity  in  this  experi- 
mental system. 

II.  Repeater  Circuit  Planning 

The  diagram  in  Fig.  II- 1  shows  schematically  a  repeater  circuit.  At  the 
input  terminal  toward  the  left  the  signal,  5,  is  fed  to  the  terminal's  trans- 
mitting antenna.  The  radiated  signal  is  propagated  as  discussed  in  Section 
I  and  produces  the  signal  power  Si  in  the  output  of  the  receiving  antenna 
of  repeater  1.  The  signal  is  then  amplified  Gi  times  and  radiated  toward 
repeater  2  and  this  process  is  repeated  until  the  signal  finally  appears  in  the 
output  terminal  towards  the  right.  In  each  repeater  the  signal  is  gain- 
controlled  automatically  for  the  same  level  of  output  powers,  i.e.,  S  =  Si  = 
S2  =  "  '  =Sr,.  It  is  assumed  that  the  signals  are  amplitude  or  frequency- 
modulated  C.W.  carriers  of  substantially  the  same  frequency  in  each  link 
and  that  the  repeaters  have  linear  amplifiers.  The  diagram  shows  a  West- 
to-East  circuit  only.  A  circuit  for  the  opposite  direction  requires  duplica- 
tion of  all  the  equipment  with  the  exception  of  the  antenna  supporting 
towers. 

Some  simple  formulas  for  the  repeater  gain  and  the  signal-to-noise  ratio 
at  the  terminal  will  be  given  in  this  section,  without  going  into  any  details 
on  propagation  phenomena,  antennas,  amplifiers,  etc.  The  formulas  will 
orient  the  reader  in  regard  to  the  importance  of  quantities  such  as : 

d  =  Repeater  separation  ] 

X   =  Wavelength  of  signal  [same  units  of  length 

A  —  Effective  area  of  each  antenna  J 

F  =  Noise  figure  of  each  repeater  amplifier 

B  =  Bandwidth  of  circuit  in  cycles/sec. 

The  free  space  attenuation  (5x-iAx)  of  link  ":*:"  is^^ 

»  H.  T.  Friis,  "A  Note  on  a  Simple  Transmission  Formula",  Ptoc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol.  34, 
No.  5,  pp.  254-256;  May  1946. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


199 


Allowing  the  signal  power  to  fade  by  a  factor  M  below  this  value,  the  maxi- 
mum gain  of  repeater  "a:"  must  be 


(II-l) 


The  total  maximum  gain  in  the  circuit  is  Gj-  =  Gi  X  G2  X  -  -  Gn  which 
for  the  same  repeater  spacings  and  fading  allowances  becomes 

72  >  2   ,  ^\  n  /  j2  X  2    ,  ^\  D/d 

(II-2) 


—  (m = m' 


where  D  is  the  total  length  of  the  circuit.  Because  of  distortion,  original 
costs,  and  maintenance  costs,  this  total  gain  should  be  made  as  small  as 
possible. 


s 


4-— da— -| 


JS  3,1 


'-REPEATERS-' 


K-dx 


!-^-dn-*" 


TERMINAL 
(INPUT) 


-I 

, 1  (SIGNAL) 

L  riJ^v 


G  n        __^ 

n     ZNx 
(noise) 
terminal 

(OUTPUT) 


Fig.  II-l. — Repeater  circuit  with  n  links. 


The  following  example  illustrates  the  maximum  gain  required  of  the  ampli- 
fier in  a  repeater: 

For  c?  =  4  X  10^  meters  (25  miles),  X  =  0.075  meters  (/  =  4000  mega- 
cycles), A  =  4.6  meter2  (50  sq.  ft.)  and  M  =  100  (20  db),  we  have 

G  =  4.3X  10'(76db) 

The  noise  output  of  a  repeater  due  to  noise  sources  in  the  repeater  itself 
is  approximately^^ 

iVx  =  4  X  10-21  F  BG:,  Watts 


or  from  (II-l) 


N.  =  4X  10-'^  FB  ^  M, 


i«  H.  T.  Friis,  "Noise  Figures  of  Radio  Receivers",  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol.  32,  pp.  419-22; 
July  1944. 


200  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

This  noise  power  is  transmitted  without  gain  or  loss  to  the  output  terminals 
of  the  repeater  circuit.  The  total  noise  power  at  the  output  terminals  is 
therefore 


SiV^x  =  4  X  IQ-'^FB  —  XidlM,) 


2 
l2 


Assuming  the  same  repeater  spacings  and  fading  factors  M  in. each  link  and 
substituting  D  for  nd, 

d\^  ' 

SiV  =  4  X  10"''  FBD  -J-  M  Watts  (II-3) 

The  signal-to-noise  ratio  at  the  output  terminals  is  S/^N.  The  circuit 
should  be  designed  ibr  a  signal  power,  S,  as  low  as  possible.  Therefore,  it 
is  very  important  to  choose  values  of  the  several  factors  in  (II-3)  which 
give  a  low  level  of  output  noise. 

Assuming  a  noise  figure  F  =  20  (13  db)  and  bandwidth  ^  =  10  mega- 
cycles, eight  repeaters  of  the  type  described  in  the  above  example  will  have, 

2iV  =  2.8  X  10"'  Watts 

or,  assuming  a  required  minimum  output  signal  to  noise  ratio  of  30  db,  the 
output  power  must  be  5  ^  0.28  Watts. 

In  this  example  it  has  been  assumed  that  the  signals  in  all  links  have 
faded  simultaneously  20  db  below  the  free  space  value,  which  may  only 
happen  a  fraction  of  a  percent  of  the  time.  Most  of  the  time  the  signal-to- 
noise  ratio  will  be  higher  than  the  assumed  30  db  and  under  normal  trans- 
mission conditions  it  will  be  50  db  (fading  allowance  factor  M  =  1). 

Assuming  the  same  repeater  spacings  and  fading  allowances  in  each  link, 
equation  (II-l)  and  (II-3)  give  the  following  formula  for  the  ratio  of  the 
output  power  to  noise  figure  of  the  repeater  amplifier 

5/F  =  4  X  10-21  Q  5  (5/2iV)w  (II-4) 

Equations  (II-l)  and  (II-4)  are  the  important  design  equations  for  the  re- 
peater amplifier. 

The  factors  in  (II-2)  and  (II-3)  will  now  be  discussed  briefly.  (II-3) 
shows  that  the  noise  figure  F  should  be  as  small  as  possible.  If  by  improving 
the  equipment  the  noise  figure  could  be  halved,  then  the  signal  power  5 
could  also  be  halved  (unless  interference  from  other  microwave  circuits 
predominate).    Later  on  the  noise  figure  will  be  discussed  further. 

The  bandwidth  B  is  determined  by  the  characteristics  of  the  signal  it  is 
desired  to  transmit  and  by  the  method  of  transmission.  Our  aim  has  been 
to  provide  10-megacycle  bands  which  are  sufiicient  for  transmission  of  stand- 
ard television  signals  by  AM  or  low  index  FM. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  201 

An  increase  in  the  effective  area,  A,  of  the  antennas  reduces  both  the  total 
gain  required  of  the  amplifier  and  the  output  noise  power.  Crosstalk  be- 
tween the  several  antennas  in  a  repeater  station  and  interference  from  outside 
sources  also  decrease  as  the  antennas  are  increased  in  size  because  of  the 
increased  directivity.  Therefore,  the  antennas  should  be  as  large  as  main- 
tenance and  initial  costs  will  permit.  Antennas  will  be  discussed  in  detail 
in  Section  III. 

Equations  (II-2)  and  (II-3)  show  that  the  wavelength  X  should  be  small. 
Also  more  frequency  space  or  signal  channels  may  be  had  at  shorter  wave- 
lengths. On  the  other  hand,  the  fading  factor  M  increases  somewhat  as  the 
wavelength  is  decreased  and,  besides,  attenuation  due  to  rain  sets  a  lower 
limit  for  X  in  the  region  of  5  centimeters.  The  status  of  the  apparatus  art  has 
also  been  an  important  factor,  but  it  now  permits  utilization  of  the  wave- 
length range  extending  upward  from  3  centimeters.  Since  the  war,  our  work 
has  been  concentrated  on  a  10%  band  around  4000  megacycles  or  7^ 
centimeter  wavelength.  The  manner  in  which  this  4000-megacycle  band 
may  be  divided  up  into  separate  channels  is  explained  in  Section  IV. 

The  effects  of  varying  the  repeater  separation  d  will  now  be  discussed. 
d  appears  in  the  denominator  of  the  exponent  of  (IT2)  which  indicates  that 
large  separations  are  favorable,  while  (II-3)  shows  that  a  decrease  in  separa- 
tion cuts  down  the  noise.  Small  separations  are  very  costly,  the  cost  being 
almost  inversely  proportional  to  the  separation.  We  have  concluded  from 
propagation  studies  and  site  surveys  that  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  United 
States  it  is  desirable  to  use  separations  of  about  30  miles,  which  generally 
provide  line-of-sight  paths  with  reasonable  tower  heights.  It  should  be 
mentioned  that  the  fading  allowance  factor  M  is  not  independent  of  d; 
an  increased  d  requires  a  larger  fading  factor. 

III.  Antenna  Research* 

There  are  three  electrical  characteristics  which  repeater  antennas  should 
possess.  The  first  is  high  gain  (large  effective  area),  as  this  will  reduce  the 
path  loss  and  accordingly  the  requirements  on  transmitter  power.  The 
second  is  good  directional  quahties  so  as  to  minimize  interference  from  out- 
side sources  and  also  interference  between  adjacent  antennas.  The  third 
is  a  good  impedance  match  so  that  reflections  between  the  antenna  and  the 
repeater  equipment  will  not  distort  the  transmitted  signals.  These  char- 
acteristics should  preferably  be  attainable  without  the  imposition  of  severe 
mechanical  or  constructional  requirements. 

It  was  felt  that  a  10-foot  round  or  square  antenna  would  be  the  largest 
that  maintenance  and  initial  cost  would  permit.     Propagation  studies  also 

*  This  section  prepared  by  W.  E.  Kock  who  performed  the  major  part  of  the  work  on 
antennas. 


202  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

showed  that  the  variations  in  angle  of  arrival  of  the  distant  signals  would  be 
small  compared  to  the  beam  width  of  10-foot  antennas.  First  experiments 
were  therefore  made  with  10-foot  diameter  parabolic  "dish"  type  antennas. 
The  experimental  models  were  made  of  wood  with  a  metallized  reflecting 
surface  consisting  of  silver  conducting  paint.  Fairly  satisfactory  tolerances 
were  met  in  these  first  models,  but  it  was  anticipated  that  trouble  would  be 
experienced  in  constructing  a  permanent  metal  paraboloid  of  that  size  to  the 
required  tolerances  without  the  use  of  a  heavy  and  costly  supporting  means 
for  the  parabolic  sheet.  It  was  also  found  that  an  ice  coating  a  quarter 
wavelength  thick  on  the  reflecting  surface,  when  wet,  acted  as  an  effective 
absorber  of  power,t  since  the  sheet  of  water  is  resistive  and  is  backed  up  by 
the  reflector.  Such  a  condition  could  produce  an  intolerable  drop  in  re- 
ceived signal  and  would  have  to  be  prevented  by  providing  the  dish  with  a 
plastic  cover.  As  this  cover  should  preferably  house  the  feed  also,  it  would 
have  presented  a  difficult  supporting  problem. 

Two  electrical  shortcomings  of  the  paraboloid  antenna  also  presented 
themselves.  First,  it  was  found  extremely  difficult  to  obtain  a  satisfactory 
impedance  match  between  the  antenna  and  the  feed  line.  This  was  true 
partly  because  of  energy  reflected  from  the  dish  re-entering  the  feed  horn, 
(this  produced  a  constant  0.6  db  standing  wave  ratio  in  the  feed  line),  and 
partly  because  of  the  problem  of  matching  the  feed  horn  itself  over  the  de- 
sired 400  megacycle  band.  Secondly,  the  mutual  interference  or  "crosstalk" 
between  two  paraboloids  was  found  to  be  only  50  to  60  db  down  when  placed 
back  to  back**  (Fig.  III-l). 

A  type  of  reflector  antenna  was  later  ijivestigated,  which,  although  larger 
physically  than  a  dish  having  the  same  aperture  area,  overcomes  the  above 
two  objections.^^  It  is  shown  sketched  in  Fig.  III-2.  The  photograph  of 
Fig.  III-3  shows  the  antenna  lying  on  its  side.  It  can  be  seen  that  the  feed  is 
effectively  "offset"  and  reflection  back  toward  the  feed  is  eliminated;  the 
experimental  model  of  Fig.  III-3  showed  only  0.1  db  standing  wave  ratio  in 
the  feed  line  over  a  10%  band  of  frequencies.  Furthermore,  a  horn  or 
"shielded"  type  feed  is  used  which  confines  the  energy  and  minimizes  stray 
radiation,  and  measurements  indicate  that  the  back-to-back  crosstalk  sup- 
pression of  two  such  antennas  will  be  high.  This  long  horn  is  also  partly 
responsible  for  the  excellent  impedance  match.  A  horn  having  a  large 
aperture  "matches"  free  space  quite  well  and  the  slight  mismatch  at  the 
throat  can  be  tuned  out  over  a  wide  band  of  frequencies.     This  is  not  true 

t  A  waveguide  termination  in  common  use  today  employs  a  resistive  sheet  placed  one- 
quarter  wavelength  in  front  of  a  conducting  plate;  this  device  absorbs  practically  all  the 
power  falling  on  it. 

**  Back  to  back  crosstalk  suppression  in  the  order  of  125  db  would  be  desirable  for 
repeaters  receiving  and  transmitting  on  the  same  frequency. 

»'  U,  S.  Patent  *  2,236,393,  H.  T.  Friis  and  A.  C.  Beck. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


203 


Fig.  III-l.— Measuring  the  back  to  back  crosstalk  of  two  10  ft.  paraboloid  antennas. 


204 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


of  the  short,  small  aperture  horn  used  in  feeding  the  dish  antenna.  The 
antenna  displayed  an  effective  area  which  was  66%  of  its  actual  area  which 
is  only  0.9  db  below  the  theoretical,  maximum. 


PARABOLOIDAL 
SURFACE 


AXIS    OF  REVOLUTION 
OF   PARABOLOID 


j^^-~._  FOCAL  POINT 
OF  PARABOLA 


Fig.  III-2. — Schematic  of  horn-reflector  antenna. 


Fig.  III-3. — Experimental  model  of  horn  reflector  antenna. 


The  expected  gain  and  directional  characteristics  of  an  antenna  can  be 
realized  only  if  the  emerging  wave  fronts  are  truly  plane.  Since  deviations 
greater  than  d:  ^  wavelength  can  materially  impair  the  antenna  perform- 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


205 


ance/^  reflector  antennas  have  difficult  tolerance  requirements  imposed 
upon  them.  For  example,  at  4000  megacycles,  the  10-foot  reflector  must 
conform  to  parabolic  shape  to  within  d=  |  inches,  and  any  twist  or  warp 


1 


Fig.  III-4. — Shielded  metallic  lens  antenna. 

of  the  reflector  greater  than  this  would  be  objectionable.    Lenses,  however, 
possess  the  property  that  a  twist  or  warp  in  them  does  not  impair  their 

18  See,  for  example,  "Radar  .\ntennas",  H.  T.  Friis  and  W.  D.  Lewis,  B.  S.  T.  /., 
vol.  26,  p.  219,  April  1947,  Figs.  17  and  28. 


206 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


beam-forming  properties,  and,  with  the  development  of  metal  lenses  for 
microwaves, ^^  this  type  of  antenna  appeared  to  lend  itself  very  well  to  re- 
peater applications.  The  "shielded"  type  lens,  which  is  a  lens  in  the  mouth 
of  a  short  horn,  is  shown  in  Fig.  III-4.  This  antenna,  which  was  developed 
for  the  New  York-Boston  circuit,*  possesses  the  property  of  excellent 


Fig.  III-5. — Internal  view  of  lens  for  the  shielded  metallic  lens  antenna. 


crosstalk  suppression  both  side  to  side  (85  db)  and  back  to  back  (125  db). 
Within  the  horn,  the  small  amount  of  energy  reflected  back  from  the  lens 
is  directed  away  from  the  feed  by  tilting  the  lens,  a  procedure  which  does  not 
noticeably  affect  the  I'adiation  characteristics,  but  which  results  in  a  fairly 

i»  W.  E.  Kock,  Metal  Lens  Antenna,  Proc.  I.  R.  £.,  vol.  34,  p.  828,  November  1946. 
*  Developed  by  W.  E.  Kock  and  R.  W.  Friis. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  207 

good  impedance  match  (under  0.8  db  standing  wave  ratio)  over  the  desired 
400-megacycle  band  of  frequencies.  The  lens  in  the  mouth  of  the  horn  also 
provies  a  convenient  support  for  a  plastic  impregnated  Fiberglass  sheet 
which  acts  as  a  weatherproof  cover  and  protects  the  lens  against  ice  forming 
between  the  plates. 

The  lens  itself,  Fig.  III-5,  is  based  on  waveguide  principles  and  causes  the 
wave  to  be  refracted  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  waves  confined  between  plates 
parallel  to  the  electric  vector  acquire  a  phase  velocity  higher  than  their  free 
space  velocity  in  accordance  with  the  equation : 


t'lens    =    t'free  space  /  A/    1    "    ( 2^)    »  (lH-l) 

where  X  is  the  wavelength  and,  a,  the  distance  between  the  plates.  The 
index  of  refraction  is  thus  less  than  one,  and  a  converging  lens  must  be  made 
concave. 

As  seen  in  Fig.  III-5,  the  lens  is  stepped  to  reduce  its  thickness.  As  a 
consequence  of  this  stepping,  the  efficiency  at  midband  of  the  antenna 
(50%),  is  a  good  deal  less  than  the  theoretical  value  of  81%.  Furthermore, 
the  index  of  refraction  varies  with  wavelength,  as  seen  from  equation  III-l, 
and  this  results  in  a  defocussing  of  the  lens,  with  a  consequent  drop  in  gain, 
at  wavelengths  different  from  the  design  wavelength.  This  amounts  to  a 
drop  in  gain  of  1.5  db  at  the  edges  of  a  400  megacycle  band;  however,  its 
other  characteristics  of  impedance,  side  lobe  suppression  (70  db  in  the  two 
rear  quadrants),  crosstalk,  and  ease  of  construction,  help  to  make  up  for 
the  gain  deficiency. 

Measurements  taken  on  the  antenna  when  a  thick  coating  of  ice  had 
formed  on  the  plastic  cover  indicated  that  the  impedance  match  was  im- 
paired (the  maximum  standing  wave  ratio  increased  from  .8  db  to  1.6  db), 
but  that  the  gain  was  not  appreciably  affected  (less  than  1  db).  Since 
propagation  experiments  indicate  that  severe  atmospheric  fades  are  not 
likely  to  occur  during  the  winter  months,  some  of  the  fading  allowance  can 
be  applied  against  ice  loss. 

There  was  some  doubt  that  the  crosstalk  figures  quoted  above  could  be 
relied  upon  during  heavy  rainfalls,  as  there  was  indication  that  the  signal 
transmitted  from  one  antenna  might  be  reflected  from  the  rain  and  thus 
caused  to  enter  an  adjacent  side-by-side  antenna.  Measurements  during 
a  moderately  heavy  rain  proved  that  this  effect  was  small,  but  large  enough 
so  that  the  85  db  side-to-side  figure  was  approaching  a  limit  for  the  4000 
megacycle  band. 

The  measurement  of  antenna  characteristics  involves  microwave  tech- 
niques whose  development  is  an  important  part  of  a  research  program. 


208 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


CONDUCTING 
^/SPHERES 

INSULATED 
■^-^^^  SUPPORTING   RODS 


FEED 


Fig.  III-6.— Schematic  of  metallic  delay  lens  using  metal  balls  as  the  delay  elements. 


METAL  STRIP  INSERTS 

Illl!lllllllllllllllllllllllll4'_^"  ^^"""'^ '^^ °^^ 


IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINIINIIMIII 


lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
jllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

31 


ENLARGEMENT  OF  CENTER    SECTION 


7-CENTIMETER 
WAVEGUIDE    -. 


REMOVABLE      —- 
HORN 


Fig.  III-7.— Schematic  of  metallic  delay  lens  for  repeater  applications  using  metal 
strips  as  the  delay  elements. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


209 


The  antenna  measuring  methods  which  were  employed  in  our  repeater 
research  follow  along  the  lines  of  those  described  in  a  recent  paper.^^ 
The  very  large  signal  ratios  of  120  db  or  more  necessitated  double  detection 
receivers  and  low  noise  figure  crystal  converters.  Pattern  and  gain  meas- 
urements of  the  antennas  required  measuring  sites  having  large  unob- 


Fig.  III-8, — A  view  of  the  partly  assembled  lens  of  Fig.  III-7. 


structed  areas;  these  measurements  were  conveniently  taken  at  the  Holmdel 
Radio  Research  Laboratory.  Impedance  measurements  involved  the  usual 
microwave  equipment  such  as  standing  wave  detectors  in  waveguide  form, 
signal  generators  and  calibrated  receivers. 

Research  is  now  underway  on  an  improved  metal  lens  with  gain  and  band- 
width properties  which  are  superior  to  the  lens  of  Fig.  III-5.     These  lenses^^ 

^  C.  C.  Cutler,  A.  P.  King,  W.  E.  Kock,  "Microwave  Antenna  Measurements", 
Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol.  35,  No.  12,  pp.  1462-1471,  December  1947. 

21  Winston  E.  Kock,  "Metallic  Delay  Lenses",  B.  S.  T.  J.,  vol.  27,  pp.  58-82,  January 
1948. 


210  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

employ  an  artificial  dielectric  material  which  duplicates,  on  a  much  larger 
scale,  processes  occurring  in  a  true  dielectric.  This  involves  arranging 
conducting  elements  in  a  three  dimensional  array  or  lattice  structure  to 
simulate  the  crystalline  lattice  of  the  true  dielectric.  Such  an  array  responds 
to  radio  waves  just  as  a  molecular  lattice  responds  to  Hght  waves,  and  if  the 
spacing  and  size  of  the  elements  is  small  compared  to  the  wavelength,  the 
index  of  refraction  is  substantially  constant,  so  that  lenses  made  of  this 
material  are  effective  over  large  wavelength  bands. 

A  lens  employing  conducting  spheres  as  the  lattice  elements  is  sketched 
in  Fig.  III-6.  A  more  convenient  structure  for  large  lenses  is  shown  in 
Fig.  III-7  and  III-8;  it  uses  thin  metalUc  strips,  with  the  width  dimension 
parallel  to  the  electric  vector.  Slotted  polystyrene  foam  sheets  support 
the  strips  and  they  are  stacked  up  to  form  the  lens.  A  quarter  wavelength 
step  in  the  lens  causes  the  reflections  from  the  lens  surfaces  to  cancel  at  the 
feed  point,  which,  in  the  drawing,  is  the  apex  of  the  horn  shield. 

Over  a  10%  wavelength  band,  a  6  foot  square  shielded  lens  antenna  of 
this  type  exhibited  an  efficiency  of  better  than  60%  and  the  impedance  mis- 
match due  to  the  lens  produces  only  a  0.2  db  standing  wave  ratio  in  the 
feed  line.  This  antenna  thus  retains  the  dimensional  tolerance,  weight, 
size  and  crosstalk  advantages  of  the  shielded  lens  over  the  shielded  reflector, 
and  has  the  advantage  of  higher  gain  and  broader  band  performance  over 
the  shielded  metal  plate  lens, 

IV.  Filter  Research* 

Frequency  space  for  common  carrier  radio  relay  systems  is  available  in 
blocks  several  hundred  megacycles  wide.  Where  heavy  traffic  is  to  be 
carried  such  bands  must  be  efficiently  exploited.  This  may  in  time  be 
accomplished  by  using  extremely  wide  band  amplifiers,  for  example  traveling 
wave  tubes;  however,  more  immediate  success  is  offered  by  the  possibility 
of  operating  a  number  of  narrower  band  circuits  of  different  frequencies. 
This  could  be  done  by  using  a  separate  transmitting  and  receiving  antenna 
for  each  circuit.  But  each  antenna,  for  sound  technical  reasons,  must  be 
large  and  expensive  and  in  addition  requires  adequate  tower  support. 
Consequently  there  is  a  need  for  filters  which  can  connect  a  number  of 
individual  radio  channels  to  a  common  antenna. 

The  design22  of  these  radio  frequency  branching  filters  must  be  coor- 
dinated with  the  design  of  the  relay  system  as  a  whole.  At  lower  frequencies 
where  little  or  no  antenna  crosstalk  protection  can  be  counted  on  it  is  natural 

*  This  section  prepared  by  W.  D.  Lewis  and  L.  C.  Tillotson  who  were  responsible  for 
a  large  part  of  the  research  on  filters. 

«  For  more  detailed  discussion  see,  W.  D.  Lewis  and  L.  C.  Tillotson  "A  Constant 
Resistance  Branching  Filter  for  Microwaves,"  B.  S.  T.  J.,  vol.  27,  pp.  83-95,  Jan.  1948. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


211 


to  lump  transmitting  frequencies  in  one  group  and  receiving  frequencies  in 
another.  When  separate  microwave  shielded  lens  antennas  are  employed 
for  transmitting  and  receiving  in  each  direction  it  becomes  practical  to  use 
a  frequency  plan  in  which  transmitting  and  receiving  frequencies  are  in- 
terleaved.    Such  a  plan  eases  filter  requirements  considerably  and  has 


ANTENNAS 


— e> 


1  RADIO--         ! 

j      FREQUENCY 
FILTERS  ^■ 


4150 


4110 


4070 


}  GUARD 
4030  I)  ACTIVE 


3910     |iaMC 
20,  MC 


3870 


3830 
MC 


I  —I  80  MC 

40'mC         I 


LONG 
-•-WAVEGUIDE 
LINES 


<R 


FREQUENCY 
PLAN 


REPEATER    GAIN 


FILTERS    MUST; 


SEPARATE    OR   COMBINE    CHANNELS 
WITH    MINIMUM    POWER    LOSS. 

PROVIDE    EXCELLENT    IMPEDANCE 
MATCH    TO  ANTENNA    LINES 


DISCRIMINATION     REQUIREMENTS: 

LESS    IMPORTANT   AT   PRESENT 
BECAUSE    OF: 

ANTENNA    DIRECTIVITY, 

l.F.   DISCRIMINATION 


Fig.  IV- 1. — Schematic  diagram  of  a  possible  five  channel  radio  repeater  station. 


certain  other  advantages  to  be  discussed  in  Section  V.  A  possible  re- 
peater employing  such  a  frequency  scheme  is  illustrated  schematically  in 
Fig.  IV-1. 

If  a  radio  frequency  branching  filter  is  to  fit  properly  into  a  repeater  it 
must  separate  or  combine  channels  without  excessive  loss  of  signal.  In 
addition  it  must  provide  an  excellent  match  to  the  long  line  which  leads 
to  the  antenna,  otherwise  troublesome  echoes  in  this  line  may  be  caused. 


212  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Because  of  IF  amplifier  band-pass  characteristics,  suppression  requirements 
on  the  filter,  except  possibly  in  the  vicinity  of  receiver  image  bands,  are  not 
large. 

Microwave  band-pass  filters  consisting  of  one  or  more  cavities  arranged 
in  sequence  along  a  waveguide  have  been  known  for  some  time.  The  fre- 
quency, bandwidth  and  discrimination  characteristics  of  such  filters  can 
all  be  chosen  within  wide  limits  by  appropriate  design  of  the  cavities  and 
the  means  for  coupling  to  them.  These  filters  are  analogous  to  lumped- 
circuit  channel-passing  filters  and  can  in  principle,  like  them,  be  connected 
in  groups  to  provide  a  branching  network. 


i20°  E- PLANE 
WAVEGUiOE  JUNCTION 


CHANNEL  B 
OUTPUT 


Fig.  IV-2. — Photograph  of  a  branching  filter  for  an  experimental  radio  relay  system. 

Several  successful  two-branch  networks  have  been  designed  and  con- 
structed in  this  manner.  One  of  these,  developed  for  the  New  York- 
Boston  circuit*,  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  IV-2.  Here  two  three-cavity  filters 
are  connected  to  an  E  plane  Y  junction,  the  waveguide  analogue  of  a  series 
connection.  The  two  filters  are  tuned  to  different  bands  and  each  is  con- 
nected to  the  junction  through  a  line  of  length  such  that  it  causes  no  disturb- 
ance in  the  channel  of  the  other.  The  electrical  characteristics  of  this 
filter  are  plotted  in  Fig.  IV-3. 

Problems  connected  with  the  design  of  suitable  microwave  branching 
filters  with  more  than  two  branches  evidently  differ  considerably  from  pre- 
vious filter  problems.  Channel  passing  networks  which  can  be  connected 
in  series  or  parallel  to  form  a  channel  branching  filter  can  be  designed  at 
lower  frequencies  on  the  basis  of  lumped  circuit  theory  and  built  of  coils, 
condensers  and  resistances,  but  in  the  microwave  region  simple  elements 

*  Developed  by  the  group  concerned  with  high-frequency  filter  design  headed  by 
A.  R.  D'  heedene.  A  large  part  of  the  research  underlying  the  design  of  these  filters  was 
performed  by  W.  W.  Mumford.  Prior  to  the  war  a  considerable  amount  of  research  on 
the  band-pass  type  of  waveguide  filter  had  already  been  done  by  A.  G.  Fox. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


213 


and  connections  do  not  exist.  Where  more  than  two  waveguide  channel 
passing  filters  are  to  be  connected  to  a  common  junction  the  design  becomes 
complex,  since  in  every  channel  the  sum  of  the  interactions  of  all  the  inac- 
tive filters  on  transmission  through  the  active  fiher  must  be  zero.  It  is 
evidently  not  easy  to  satisfy  this  condition,  particularly  since  in  doing  so 
one  must  take  account  of  the  change  with  frequency  of  the  effective  length 
of  all  waveguide  connecting  lines.  And  even  if  such  a  solution  is  found  it 
will  be  valid  for  only  one  set  of  channels,  so  that  the  problem  must  be  solved 
all  over  again  for  every  change  in  channel  arrangement. 


INPUT 
STANDING -WAVE  RATIO 


♦TRANSMISSION   LOSS  AT  fo  IS  LESS  THAN    0.05  DECIBELS 


|5 

tnO 


ace 

z 


\ 

"A"  FILTER 

/ 

\ 

s. 

If  ■*- 

I'o  - 

13970 

/ 

/ 

\ 

y 

"B"  FILTER 

\ 

14230 

/ 

N 

1 

1 
^ 1     ' 

/ 

3940  3950      3960      3970      3980      3990  4000  4200   4210      4220       4230      4240      4250     4260 
FREQUENCY   IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  IV-3. — Input  standing  wave  ratios  of  filter  of  Fig.  IV-2. 


As  a  result  of  these  difficulties  and  after  a  few  attempts  to  overcome  them 
it  became  evident  that  a  more  flexible  microwave  branching  filter  technique 
should  be  found.  Accordingly  a  solution  on  an  iterative  basis  was 
developed.  A  channel  dropping  circuit  was  devised  which,  when  inserted 
in  a  line,  could  extract  or  insert  one  channel  while  allowing  others  to  pass 
through  without  disturbance.  This  circuit  is  of  the  constant  resistance 
type;  in  other  w^ords  it  operates  by  diverting  energy  selectively  but  not 
by  reflecting  it  back  to  the  input.  Consequently  N  such  circuits  placed  in 
sequence  do  not  interact  reflectively;  they,  thus,  form  an  N  channel  branch- 
ing filter  which  is  also  of  the  constant  resistance  type. 

An  individual  constant  resistance  channel  dropping  circuit  is  illustrated 
schematically  in  Fig.  IV-4.     It  is  made  up  of  two  hybrid^^  circuits,  two 

23  For  a  general  discussion  of  hybrid  circuits  see  W.  A.  Tyrrell,  "Hybrid  Circuits  for 
Microwaves",  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol.  35,  No.  11,  pp.  1294r-1306,  November  1947. 


214 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


identical  band  reflection  filters,  and  two  quarter  wavelengths  of  line.  Each 
of  the  hybrids  is  analogous  to  a  low-frequency  hybrid  coil  and  operates  as 
follows.  A  wave  in  Hhe  C  (See  Fig.  IV-4)  incident  on  the  hybrid  is  divided 
equally  and  with  equal  phase  into  A  and  B  but  does  not  appear  in  D  or 
reappear  in  C.  If  waves  in  A  and  B  are  incident  on  the  hybrid  a  wave  pro- 
portional to  their  vector  sum  will  appear  in  C,  a  wave  proportional  to  their 
vector  difference  will  appear  in  D  but  nothing  will  reappear  in  A  or  B. 
A  wave  in  the  input  line  incident  on  the  channel  dropping  circuit  will  thus 
be  divided  by  the  input  line  into  the  lines  leading  to  the  two  band  reflection 
filters.  These  filters  are  designed  to  reflect  frequencies  lying  within  their 
band  and  pass  all  other  frequencies.  If  the  frequency  is  outside  of  the  re- 
flected band  the  two  waves  will  travel  on  to  connections  A  and  B  of  the 


HYBRID 
JUNCTION  ^^    C 


^) 


4 


IDENTICAL 
BAND 
REFLECTION  ^ 

FILTERS  ' 


DROPPED    CHANNEL 


/ig     (90°  PHASE   SHIFT] 
4 


DUMMY 
:     LOAD 


Q 


HYBRID   " 
JUNCTION 


OTHER 
CHANNELS 


ADVANTAGES: 

ISOLATION    OF    DESIGN 

PROBLEMS. 
CIRCUIT    FLEXIBILITY 


Fig.  IV-4. — Schematic  diagram  of  a  constant  impedance  channel  dropping  filter 
using  hybrid  junctions  and  band  reflection  filters. 


output  hybrid.  Here  they  will  have  equal  phase  and  amplitude,  their 
vector  difference  wiH  be  zero  and  the  wave  appearing  in  C  of  the  output  hy- 
brid and  consequently  in  the  output  line  will  contain  all  the  power.  If 
the  frequency  lies  within  the  band  of  the  reflection  filters  the  two  waves  will 
be  reflected  by  them  and  will  travel  back  to  the  connections  A  and  B  of 
the  input  hybrid.  The  two  waves  strike  these  connections  with  opposite 
phase  since  one  of  them  has  traveled  twice  over  an  extra  quarter  wavelength 
of  line.  Their  vector  sum  will  consequently  be  zero  and  the  wave  which 
appears  in  terminal  D  of  the  input  hybrid  and  consequently  in  the  dropped 
channel  line  will  contain  all  the  power.  The  circuit  of  Fig.  IV-4  is  therefore 
a  constant  resistance  channel  dropping  network  which  diverts  energy  lying 
within  the  band  of  the  reflection  filters  but  allows  all  other  energy  to  pass 
through  without  disturbance.     Conversely,  by  the  law  of  reciprocity,  this 


MTCROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


215 


circuit  can  insert  energy  lying  within  the  band  of  the  reflection  filters  into 
the  main  line  without  disturbing  any  energy  passing  through  it  at  other 
frequencies. 


A 
Fig.  IV-5. — Hybrid  junction  used  in  the  filter  of  Fig.  IV-4. 


-PREQUENCY  ADJUSTED 
BY  SIDE    SCREWS 


Fig.  IV-.6 — Waveguide  band  reflection  filter  used  in  the  filter  of  Fig.  IV-4. 


An  embodiment  of  the  circuit  of  Fig.  IV-4  suitable  for  use  in  the  repeater 
arrangement  of  Fig.  IV- 1  has  been  constructed  and  tested.  Figure  IV-5 
illustrates  the  waveguide  hybrid  employed.     Here  the  waveguide  opening 


216 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ya 

M 


J3 

a 

ci 
O 

o 

Ah 


to 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


217 


INPUT 


WAVEGUIDE 


^-WAVEGUIDE    CHANNEL    FILTERS 


3870  MC 


3950  MC 


4030  MC 


4110  MC 


4190  MC   VW 


-  TERMINATIONS  "'' 


-  BAND 

--- 

--- 

-  -  -»j 

i 

1 
1 

4190  MC 

^ 

> — 

'">o 

& 

■ 

I 

^ 

^  I  , 

<- 

r-^ 

^ — s 

L_J 

3 

^ 

'■^  T  "i 

>— s 

>— "Y^ 

! 

I 

! 

( 

^ 

4110MC 

i 

*-Qv 

^ 

O 

--' 

'"^ 

^ 

^ 

— < 

-^ 

1 

1 

\ 

1 
1 

\ 

n 

K. 

- 

4030  MC 

iJj 

"^ 

^ 

" 

r 

^ 

— ■ 

1 

r^ 

'' 

;                                                                                                        ; 

o^ 

^ 

3950  MC 

i 

""^ 

^ 

-^^ 

_   ^ 

I^ 

^ 

'                                                                                                         ; 

3870  MC 

< 

r 

T^ 

■ 

-^ 

' 

> 

-i_ 

T     " 

^ 

^"" 

■20   -18     -16    -14    -12    -10     -8     -6     -4     -2       0        2       4        6       8       to      12      14       16       18      20 
FREQUENCY    IN     MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND     (FROM    MID-BAND) 

Fig.  IV-8. — Input  standing  wave  ratios  for  the  filter  of  Fig.  rV-7. 


218 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


for  C  is  physically  parallel  to  those  for  A  and  B  and  is  connected  to  them 
through  a  broad-band  waveguide  taper.  Connection  D  is  made  through  a 
relatively  narrow  band  coaxial  and  probe  arrangement.  Figure  IV-6  il- 
lustrates one  of  the  waveguide  band  reflection  filters.  In  this  filter  reflec- 
tion occurs  at  three  resonant  rods,  each  tuned  by  an  adjustable  capacita- 


WAVEGUIDE-x 


^  WAVEGUIDE    CHANNEL    FILTERS 


INPUT 


TO  I 

RECEIVER  T 


4030  MC 


4190  MC    W\ 


"--TERMINATIONS 


•24     -20      -16      -12       -8        -4  0  4  8  12  16        20        24 

FREQUENCY    IN     MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND    .(FROM    MID-BANO) 

Fig.  IV-9.— Transmission  loss  for  the  filter  of  Fig.  IV-7. 


tive  plug  at  one  end.  These  rods  are  placed  perpendicular  to  the  electric 
vector  of  the  guide  and  are  coupled  to  it  by  means  of  adjustable  screws  placed 
over  them  in  the  wide  wall  of  the  guide. 

Channel  dropping  units  for  five  channels  in  the  4,000  megacycle  region 
were  made  up  of  these  components  and  suitable  quarter  wavelengths  of 
guide.  These  units  were  connected  in  sequence  as  shown  in  Fig.  IV-7  and 
adjusted  systematically.     The  electrical  performance  of  the  resulting  five- 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  219 

channel  branching  filter  was  measured  with  a  double  detection  measuring 
set  and  is  plotted  in  Figs.  IV-8  and  IV-9. 

These  measured  electrical  characteristics  serve  as  a  check  on  the  general 
theoretical  ideas  concerning  constant  resistance  hybrid  branching  networks. 
They  also  indicate  that  when  these  ideas  are  embodied  in  the  form  illustrated 
in  Fig.  IV-7  the  result  is  a  branching  filter  which  can  be  used  in  currently 
planned  radio  relay  circuits. 

The  circuit  of  Fig.  IV-7  provides  a  satisfactory  channel  spHtting  network. 
It  does  not,  however,  provide  consistent  high  off-frequency  discrimination 
between  one  of  the  channel  output  terminals  and  the  other  terminals  of  the 
filter.  When  systems  requirements*  are  such  that  extra  discrimination  or 
special  impedance  behavior  is  required,  this  can  be  supplied  by  inserting 
suitably  designed  reflecting  filters  in  the  branch  fines.  These  added  filters 
will  not  interact  reflectively  with  the  branching  filter. 

V.  The  Repeater  AMPLiFiERf 

In  a  microwave  repeater  circuit,  Fig.  II-l,  the  signal  is  amplified  at  each 
repeater  to  compensate  for  the  transmission  loss  in  the  preceding  radio 
path.  Since  we  cannot  build  perfect  amplifiers,  the  signal  will  not  appear 
at  the  output  terminals  as  a  true  replica  of  the  input  signal ;  the  circuit  will 
distort  the  shape  of  the  signal  and  it  will  also  add  noise.  Therefore,  the 
main  objectives  in  amplifier  work  have  been  to  keep  the  signal  distortion  and 
the  added  noise  within  certain  requirements. 

To  be  more  specific,  the  repeater  amplifier  in  a  relay  system  must  be 
capable  of  supplying  a  maximum  gain,  G,  as  given  by  the  equation  II-l; 
it  must  have  a  ratio  of  output  power  capacity  to  noise  figure  which  will  meet 
the  signal  to  noise  ratio  requirements  of  the  system  as  given  by  equation 
II-4;  since  distortionless  transmission  is  desired,  it  must  have  an  amplitude 
characteristic  as  flat  as  possible  and  a  phase  characteristic  as  linear  as  pos- 
sible over  the  essential  range  of  frequencies  of  the  signal  it  is  desired  to 
transmit  ;24  and  it  must  be  equipped  with  an  automatic  gain  regulating  cir- 
cuit to  hold  the  output  power  constant  over  the  expected  range  of  input 
levels. 

The  simplest  relay  amplifier  would  be  one  which  amplifies  the  signal  and 
sends  it  on  without  a  change  in  frequency.  However,  two  major  considera- 
tions indicated  that  early  repeater  amplifiers  could  not  be  so  simple.     No 

*  E.g.,  the  converter  may  require  a  reflection  in  the  input  line  at  the  image  frequency, 
See  Section  V  and  Fig.  V-4. 

t  Those  parts  of  this  section  dealing  with  the  general  layout,  the  requirements,  and  the 
over-all  testing  of  the  repeater  amplifier  were  prepared  by  D.  H.  Ring,  who  together 
with  A.  C.  Beck  did  the  work  on  this  phase  of  the  problem. 

24  Sallie  Pero  Mead,  "Phase  Distortion  and  Phase  Distortion  Correction",  B.  S.  T.  J., 
vol.  VII,  No.  2,  pp.  195-224,  April  1928. 


220 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


microwave  amplifiers  were  known  which  gave  promise  of  yielding  an  ade- 
quate ratio  of  output  power  capacity  to  noise  figure,  and  there  was  con- 
siderable doubt  of  our  ability  to  reduce,  sufficiently,  the  feedback  from  the 
transmitting  antenna  to  the  receiving  antenna. 

These  difficulties  with  straight-through  amplification  can  be  avoided  by 
a  repeater  amplifier  such  as  is  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  V-1.  The  in- 
coming signal  is  converted  to  an  intermediate  frequency,  IF,  where  better 
amplifiers  are  available  and  where  the  major  part  of  the  required  gain  is 
supplied.  The  amplified  IF  signal  is  then  converted  back  to  the  microwave 
frequency/  +  A/,  where  A/  is  relatively  small.  The  difference  A/  between  the 
incoming  and  outgoing  frequencies  permits  the  use  of  circuit  selectivity  to 
counteract  feedback  troubles,  and  the  radio  frequency  amplifier  following  the 
transmitting  converter  can  have  a  relatively  large  noise  figure. 


INPUT 

SIGNAL 

(f) 


RECEIVER 
CONVERTER 


MODULATOR 
(-  8  DB) 


BEATING 

OSCILLATOR 

(f-IF) 


I-F 

AMPLIFIER 

(+76  DB) 


35  MW 


AUTOMATIC 
VOLUME 
CONTROL 


TRANSMITTER 
CONVERTER 


MODULATOR 
(-11  DB) 


BEATING 
OSCILLATOR 
(f+Af-lF) 


R-F 

AMPLIFIER 
(+20DB) 


2.8  MW 


OUTPUT 
SIGNAL 

280  MW     (f'+Af) 


Fig.  V-1. — Schematic  of  a  repeater  amplifier. 


Our  initial  research  on  microwave  repeaters  was  directed  toward  solving 
the  problems  associated  with  an  amplifier  of  the  type  shown  in  Fig.  V-1. 
The  gain  and  level  figures  shown  in  this  figure  apply  to  the  example  of  an 
eight-link  relay  system  given  in  section  II.  They  indicate  approximate 
minimum  objectives  for  the  various  components  of  the  repeater  amplifier 
to  be  discussed  later. 

Choice  of  I.F.  Frequency — When  selecting  the  intermediate  frequency  for 
a  multichannel  repeater  circuit  utilizing  the  interleaved  radio  frequency 
plan  of  Fig.  IV- 1  and  the  intermediate  frequency  type  repeater  amplifiers 
of  Fig.  V-1,  the  relative  position  of  the  various  discrete  frequencies  and 
frequency  bands  shown  in  Fig.  V-2  must  be  considered.  In  order  to  mini- 
mize the  possibility  of  crosstalk  from  the  image  bands  and  interference  from 
the  beating  oscillators  caused  by  insuflicient  shielding,  it  is  desirable  to 
choose  the  intermediate  frequency  in  such  a  way  that  the  image  bands  fall 
midway  between  the  active  bands,  and  the  oscillator  frequencies  fall  midway 
between  the  image  and  active  bands.  These  conditions  are  realized,  as 
shown  in  Fig.  V-2,  if  the  intermediate  frequency  satisfies  the  relation 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


221 


2  IF  =  nAf  + 


A/ 


or 


IF  =  Y  i2n  +  1) 

where  A/  is  the  frequency  spacing  and  n  is  any  integer  greater  than  zero. 

In  general,  better  noise  figures  and  circuit  stabihty  are  obtained  with 

low  intermediate  frequencies,  while  high  intermediate  frequencies  lead  to 


f,,f3,f5 ::  RECEIVED    SIGNAL 

FREQUENCIES 

^2.^41^6--*     =  TRANSMITTED   SIGNAL 

FREQUENCIES 
0t.03i05--     =  RECEIVING   BEATING 

OSCILLATORS 
02,04,06"-      =  TRANSMITTING    BEATING 
OSCILLATORS 

Il.l3tl5 =  RECEIVING    IMAGE 

FREQUENCIES 

biUJs =  TRANSMITTING     IMAGE 

FREQUENCIES 
IF  =  INTERMEDIATE   FREQUENCY 

Af  -  SPACING   OF  SIGNAL 
FREQUENCIES 


RECEIVING 

Fig.  V-2. — Frequency  spectrum  of  a  multichannel  microwave  repeater  circuit. 


more  symmetrical  amplitude  and  phase  characteristics.  The  research  on 
the  intermediate  frequency  components  described  below  was  conducted  in 
the  60  to  70-megacycle  range. 

Frequency  Stability — If  all  receiving  and  transmitting  beating  oscillators 
are  independently  controlled  in  a  multichannel  relay  circuit  of  this  kind, 
there  is  a  possibility  that  small  variations  will  add  to  produce  large  variations 
at  the  distant  end  of  the  system.  This  difficulty  can  be  overcome  by  the 
frequency  control  system  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  V-3.  The  transmit- 
ting and  receiving  beating  frequencies  are  both  derived  from  an  oscillator 


222 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


operating  at  a  frequency  suitable  for  receiving  the  incoming  signal.  The 
frequency  of  this  oscillator  is  controlled  by  a  high  Q  cavity  and  a  servo 
mechanism  to  0.2  megacycles  or  better. ^^  One  portion  of  the  output  of  the 
oscillator  is  used  as  the  beat  frequency  in  the  receiving  converter.  A  second 
portion  is  combined  with  the  output  from  a  crystal  oscillator  operating  at  a 
frequency  equal  to  the  difference,  A/,  between  the  incoming  and  outgoing 
frequencies.  In  this  way  a  beat  frequency  for  the  transmitting  converter  is 
obtained  which  has  the  same  variations  as  that  for  the  receiving  converter 
except  for  negligibly  small  variations  that  may  occur  in  the  crystal  oscillator. 
As  a  result  of  this  method  of  deriving  the  beat  frequencies  the  outgoing 
frequency  always  differs  from  the  incoming  frequency  by  an  amount  equal 
to  the  crystal  oscillator  frequency  and  is  not  influenced  by  variations  in 
the  high-frequency  local  oscillator.     The  result  is  that,  except  for  the  small 


MODULATOR 


MODULATOR 


f+Af 


OSCILLATOR 

J 

(f-IF) 

-> 

t 

SERVO 



FREQUENCY 

CONTROL 

CAVITY 

I-F  AMPLIFIER 


MODULATOR 


AMPLIFIER 
(f-IF  +  Af) 


CRYSTAL 
OSCILLATOR 
{FREQ=Af) 


Fig.  V-3. — Frequency  control  system  for  a  microwave  repeater. 


crystal  oscillator  variations,  all  radiated  frequencies  in  a  long  circuit  carry 
only  the  variations  in  the  transmitting  oscillator  of  the  originating  terminal, 
while  the  intermediate  frequency  of  each  repeater  may  vary  by  an  amount 
equal  to  the  sum  of  the  variation  of  its  own  local  oscillator  and  that  ofjthe 
terminal  transmitter  frequency. 

Automatic  Gain  Regulation — The  function  of  the  automatic  gain  control 
circuits  is  to  hold  the  repeater  output  constant  over  the  expected  fading 
range.  As  akeady  stated  an  allowance  for  fades  20  db  down  and  10  db  up 
from  free  space  have  been  made  for  30-miIe  paths  at  a  wavelength  of  about 
7  centimeters.  In  addition  to  knowledge  of  the  fading  range  to  be  com- 
pensated, it  is  necessary  in  the  design  of  suitable  circuits  to  know  what  the 
maximum  fading  rate  is  likely  to  be.  Analysis  of  the  records  of  a  number 
of  disturbed  periods  on  the  New  York-Neshanic  path  indicate  a  maximum 
rate  of  5  db  per  second. 

»V.  C.  Rideout,  "Automatic  Frequency  Control  of  Microwave  Oscillators",  Proc. 
I.  R.  £.,  vol.  35,  pp.  767-771,  August  1947. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  223 

A  conventional  delayed  automatic  gain  control  circuit  has  been  used  in 
which  a  d.c.  voltage,  supplied  by  a  peak  rectifier  in  the  output  of  the  last 
IF  stage,  is  amplified  and  fed  back  to  bias  several  of  the  IF  stages.  Analy- 
sis of  the  transient  response  of  the  last  repeater  in  response  to  a  step  function 
disturbance  in  the  input  to  the  first  repeater,  where  the  number  of  repeaters 
is  of  the  order  of  5  or  more,  shows  that  great  care  must  be  taken  in  shaping 
the  frequency  characteristic  of  the  feedback  circuit. 

General  Requirements  of  Components — The  important  factors  bearing  on 
the  basic  layout  of  the  amplifier  components  have  been  discussed.  Others, 
affecting  the  design  of  these  various  components  will  now  be  considered, 
after  which  a  brief  description  of  the  research  work  on  each  component  will 
be  given. 

Different  repeater  circuits  will,  in  general,  have  different  numbers  of 
repeaters;  also  it  may  be  necessary  to  feed  signals  into  and  extract  signals 
from  them  at  any  point.  Under  these  conditions  it  is  impractical  to  specify 
only  the  over-all  characteristics  for  a  given  number  of  repeaters.  Each 
repeater  itself  should  be  individually  good  and  should  not  depend  upon  any 
systematic  compensation  or  equalization  at  any  other  point  in  the  system. 
The  repeater  was  designed  in  accordance  with  this  philosophy  and,  in  the 
interest  of  flexibihty  and  ease  of  testing,  the  same  line  of  reasoning  was 
extended  to  cover  the  design  of  the  components  of  the  repeater  as  well. 

In  accordance  with  the  above  considerations  major  emphasis  was  placed 
on  obtaining  a  minimum  of  amplitude  variation  and  phase  distortion  over 
a  10-megacycle  band  for  each  repeater  component.  However,  it  was  appre- 
ciated that  even  with  the  simplest  circuits  the  inherent  phase  distortion 
would  be  excessive  in  long  relay  systems.  Phase  equalizers  can  be  designed 
to  equalize  this  distortion,  but  the  difficulties  of  design  and  ahgnment  in- 
crease with  the  magnitude  of  the  distortion  to  be  equalized.  Accordingly, 
simple  circuits  were  used  wherever  gain  requirements  would  permit  and  at 
the  same  time  parallel  research  was  carried  out  on  the  problems  of  designing 
and  testing  appropriate  phase  equalizers. 

While  our  aim  was  to  provide  a  repeater  10  megacycles  wide  suitable  for 
any  type  of  modulation,  it  soon  became  apparent  that  it  would  be  un- 
economical to  attempt  to  provide  the  extreme  degree  of  linearity  that  would 
be  required;  for  example,  for  a  long  relay  circuit  carrying  an  amplitude- 
modulated  television  signal.  However,  early  tests  indicated  that  very  satis- 
factory transmission  could  be  obtained  with  low-index  frequency-modulated 
signals,  for  which  reason  the  later  stages  of  the  work  were  aimed  at  providing 
an  amplifier  to  be  used  for  such  signals.  Nevertheless  an  attempt  was 
made  to  limit  the  compression  in  each  unit  except  the  R.F.  amplifier  to 
0.1  db  at  maximum  rated  load. 


224  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

A  further  important  requirement  placed  on  all  components  was  that  their 
input  and  output  impedances  should  match  the  corresponding  impedances 
of  the  components  to  which  they  were  to  be  connected  with  a  minimum  of 
reflected  power  over  the  10-megacycle  band.  This  requirement  was  imposed 
on  the  separate  units  to  provide  for  flexibility  in  testing  and  to  permit  easy 
patching  in  of  spare  units  in  case  of  failure. 

Receiving  Converter* 

The  receiving  converter,  together  with  the  input  to  the  first  stage  of  the 
intermediate-frequency  amplifier,  occupies  a  unique  position  in  the  repeater 
amplifier  in  that  it  is  located  at  that  point  in  the  circuit  where  the  signal 
level  is  lowest.  As  a  consequence,  research  on  receiving  converters  has  been 
directed  toward  insuring  that  the  least  possible  noise  be  added  to  the  signal 
to  be  amplified.  An  extensive  background  of  microwave  converter  design 
information  was  available  from  the  work  done  on  converters  during  the 
war2®>27  which  led  to  the  selection  of  a  balanced  converter  using  a  waveguide 
hybrid  junction  and  1N23-B  silicon  point  contact  rectifiers.  The  informa- 
tion already  available  would  probably  have  been  adequate  except  for  the 
two  additional  requirements  imposed  by  the  repeater  amplifier:  first,  that 
the  standing  wave  ratio  at  the  input  have  a  low  value  and,  second,  that 
uniform  conversion  efficiency  be  maintained  over  a  band  of  at  least  10  mega- 
cycles. 

A  receiving  converter  with  its  associated  input  and  output  circuits  is 
shown  in  Fig.  V-4.  Frequency  conversion  is  accomplished  in  a  device  of 
this  kind  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  when  two  sinusoidal  voltages  (in  this 
case  the  signal  and  the  beating  oscillator)  are  applied  to  a  non-linear  imped- 
ance such  as  a  rectifier,  new  frequencies  given  by  the  sums  and  differences 
of  the  applied  frequencies  and  their  harmonics  are  generated.  The  dif- 
ference frequency  may  thus  be  selected  as  the  desired  output  frequency  and 
passed  through  the  IF  transformers  to  the  IF  amplifier.  The  performance 
of  a  converter  is,  however,  influenced  by  the  impedances  encountered  by 
some  of  the  other  frequencies  generated.  For  this  reason,  the  separation 
S  between  the  input  filter,  more  properly  a  component  of  the  channel  se- 
lecting network,  but  here  shown  as  part  of  the  converter,  and  the  converter 
must  be  given  consideration,  since  it  determines  the  phase  of  the  reflection 
from  the  filter  at  the  image  frequency  (the  difference  between  the  beating 

*  This  section  prepared  by  C.  F.  Edwards  who  was  responsible  for  the  research  on  the 
receiving  converters. 

*  "Developments  of  Silicon  Crystal  Rectifiers  for  Microwave  Radar  Receivers",  J.  H. 
Scaff  and  R.  S.  Ohl,  B.  S.  T.  /.,  vol.  26,  pp.  1-30,  January  1947. 

*^  Descriptions  of  several  converters  developed  prior  to  and  during  the  war  as  well  as 
a  more  complete  description  of  the  present  converter  are  given  in  C.  F.  Edwards*  paper, 
"Microwave  Converters",  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol.  35,  No.  11,  pp.  1181-1191,  November  1947. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


225 


oscillator  second  harmonic  and  the  signal)  which  in  turn  afifects  the  converter 
output  impedance  and  hence  the  match  between  the  rectifiers  and  the  IF 
transformers.  Failure  to  obtain  a  proper  match  results  in  non-uniform 
transmission  over  the  channel  band. 

In  addition,  to  maintain  uniform  conversion  efficiency  over  a  wide  band, 
it  is  necessary  to  control  the  impedance  encountered  by  frequencies  near  the 
beating  oscillator  second  harmonic.     This  is  done  by  means  of  the  harmonic 


TRANSFORMER 
TUNING     \ 
CAPACITOR 


I-F 
TRANSFORMER 


BEATING- 
OSCILLATOR 
NPUT 


Fig.  V-4. — Receiving  converter  with  input  filter. 


filters  shown  which  reflect  these  frequencies  from  a  point  close  to  the  recti- 
fier. Since  the  point  of  reflection  is  close,  there  is  little  opportunity  for  the 
phase  of  the  reflection,  and  hence  the  conversion  loss,  to  vary  over  the  band 
of  frequencies  to  be  converted. 

The  converter  in  Fig.  V-4  was  designed  to  provide  as  good  a  termination 
as  possible  to  the  incoming  waveguide  over  the  band  of  channel  frequencies 
so  that  a  minimum  of  additional  adjustment  would  be  required  to  match 
the  guide  accurately  at  any  particular  channel  frequency.     This  additional 


226  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

adjustment  is  provided  by  the  input  tuner  shown.  With  it,  the  reflection 
coefficient  may  be  reduced  to  zero  at  the  desired  channel  band  center,  and 
when  this  is  done  the  standing  wave  ratio  at  the  input  is  less  than  2  db  over 
a  20-megacycle  band. 

The  bandwidth  of  the  converter  is  largely  determined  by  the  IF  trans- 
formers shown  which  transform  the  balanced  output  impedance  to  the 
unbalanced  75-ohm  coaxial  line  connecting  to  the  IF  amplifier.  When 
transformers  having  a  coupling  coefficient  of  about  0.5  are  used,  transmis- 
sion variations  of  less  than  0.1  db  over  a  20-megacycle  band  are  obtained. 


Fig.  V-5. — Receiving  converter  with  low  noise  IF  preamplifier. 

The  noise  figure  of  the  repeater  amplifier  is  determined  by  the  conversion 
loss  and  noise  figure  of  the  converter  and  the  noise  figure  of  the  IF  ampli- 
fier.'* The  converter  designed  for  the  New  York-Boston  circuit  has  a 
conversion  loss  of  about  5f  db  and  its  noise  figure  is  10  db.  Thus  when  it 
is  used  with  an  IF  amplifier  having  a  noise  figure  of  7  db,  a  figure  of  14  db 
is  obtained  for  the  over-all  noise  figure  of  the  n  peater  amplifier.  Figure 
V-5  shows  this  converter  with  a  low  noise  preamplifier  attached.* 

I.F.    AMPLIFIERf 

Most  of  the  gain  of  the  IF  amplifier  is  obtained  with  stages  using  double 

tuned,  symmetrically  loaded  (or  'matched")  interstage  transformers,  de- 

"  Loc.  cit. 

*  Developed  by  H.  C.  Foreman  and  B.  C.  Bellows,  Jr. 

t  This  section  prepared  by  Karl  G.  Jansky  who,  together  with  V.  C.  Rideout,  did  the 
work  on  IF  ampUfiers. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


227 


signed  in  accordance  with  the  formulas  given  by  a  former  member  of  this 
laboratory.-^  In  Fig.  V-6,  "a"  shows  a  schematic  diagram  of  such  a  trans- 
former and  "b"  shows  the  equivalent  tt  network  generally  used.  The  equiv- 
alent T  network  shown  at  "c"  has  also  been  used.  In  Fig.  V-7  ''a"  shows  the 
theoretical  band-pass  characteristic  for  this  type  of  transformer  with  a 
coupling  coefficient  of  0.5  which  was  the  value  used  in  most  stages.  The 
circles  indicate  points  measured  on  a  typical  transformer.  This  matched 
network  is  relatively  insensitive  to  small  changes  in  capacitance  so  that 
wherever  it  is  used  it  is  possible  to  change  tubes  without  having  to  reahgn 
the  amplifier.     The  delay  distortion  for  this  type  of  network  is,  as  shown  by 


1  1 


'"o- 

Y^q- 

I'LsCs 

^=%R,c,  =  a,o 

R2C2 

M  = 

KT/L,L2 

1  '  - 

Vl,L2(i 

-K2) 

tW- 

K 

1-2  = 

-K2) 

f5- 

K 

1-3  = 

1|l,L2( 
K 

-k2) 

L';  = 

l,-kV 

L,L2 

L2  = 

L2-K1( 

L,L2 
2 

L'^ 

KVL,L 

(C)  ''T"   EQUIVALENT 

Fig.  V-6. — The  double  tuned  IF  transformer. 


"b"  in  this  figure,  also  relatively  small.  The  gain  per  stage  for  a  coupling 
coefficient  of  0.5  is  approximately  6  db  for  6AK5  vacuum  tubes  and  about 
12  db  for  the  recently  developed  WE  404-A  tubes.  As  shown  by  W.  J. 
Albersheim^^  it  is  possible  to  design  circuits  which  will  give  more  gain  than 
the  ''matched"transformer,  but  only  at  the  cost  of  increased  sensitivity  to 
capacitance  changes.  For  convenience  the  IF  amplifier  is  usually  divided 
into  a  preamplifier  closely  associated  with  the  receiving  converter  and  a 
main  IF  amplifier. 

Pre-amplifier — At  the  time  work  was  begun,  noise  figures  of  the  order  of 

28  V.  C.  Rideout,  "Design  of  Parallel  Tuned  Transformers",  B.  S.  T.  /.,  vol.  27,  pp. 
96-108,  January  1948. 


228 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


12  to  14  db  were  obtainable  for  65  mc  amplifiers  of  the  required  bandwidth 
with  6AK5  tubes  and  matched  input  transformers.  This  was  much  worse 
than  was  desired.  By  using  a  6J4  close  spaced  grounded  grid  triode  in  the 
input  stage,  much  lower  noise  figures  were  obtained,  but  the  gain  with 
matched  input  and  output  circuits  was  so  low  (approximately  3  db  for  a 
coupling  coefficient  of  0.5)  that  the  noise  from  the  following  stage  contributed 
considerably  to  the  overall  noise  figure. 

By  removing  the  loading  resistance  on  the  output  side  of  the  first  inter- 
stage transformer  and  reducing  the  coupling  coefficient  to  0.3,  the  gain  was 

K  =0.5 


tu 

Q.-I 

(nLU 

UJCQ 

>^ 


0.5 


5  10 

_J 

UJ 

Q 

>    ^ 
»- 
< 
-I 
"J     ft 


\ 

1 

(a) 

\ 

\ 

1 

1 

V 

K. 

fo 

n        O 

y 

xiO-9 

V 

(b) 

/ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

fo 

/ 

\ 

\ 

/ 

1 

\ 

35 


45 


50  55  60  65  70  75  80 

FREQUENCY    IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


95 


Fig,  V-7. — Band  pass  and  delay  characteristics  of  the  IF  transformer. 


raised  sufficiently  to  give  an  overall  noise  figure  of  the  order  of  7  db.  Figure 
V-5  shows  the  preamplifier  developed  for  the  New  York-Boston  circuit. 
This  amplifier  employs  a  6J4  and  a  WE  404-A  and  provides  a  gain  of  23  db. 

The  6J4  tube,  when  used  in  a  grounded  grid  circuit,  has  an  input  imped- 
ance of  approximately  85  ohms  which  is  close  to  the  desired  75  ohm  imped- 
ance. When  a  good  match  is  required,  it  is  necessary  to  use  an  input 
transformer,  but  it  should  be  noted  that  an  improvement  in  the  noise  figure 
can  be  obtained  by  deliberately  producing  a  mismatch  in  the  right  direction 
at  the  input.  Noise  figures  as  low  as  4  db  have  been  obtained  in  this  manner 
with  recent  experimental  tubes. 

Figure  V-8  is  a  schematic  diagram  of  an  amplifier  with  a  very  low  noise 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


229 


figure  consisting  of  two  of  these  experimental  grounded  grid  tubes  in  tandem. 
The  circuits  were  designed  so  that  there  is  a  mismatch  at  the  input  of  each 
tube.  The  overall  noise  figure  is  4.0  db  with  the  amplifier  connected  be- 
tween a  75-ohm  generator  and  a  75-ohm  load;  the  gain  is  I7f  db;  and  the 
bandwidth  at  the  0.1  db  down  points  is  about  13.5  megacycles. 

Main  IF  Amplifier — In  order  to  obtain  the  required  output  power  over 
the  desired  bandwidth  it  was  necessary,  at  the  beginning  of  this  work,  to 
use  the  WE  367-A  tube  in  the  output  stage.  Since  the  gain  of  a  stage  using 
this  tube  is  very  low,  it  must  be  driven  by  a  tube  similar  to  the  6AG7  and 
to  prevent  compression  in  this  latter  tube  a  special  high  gain,  triple-tuned 
interstage  transformer  was  designed,  with  a  relatively  low  coupling  coef- 
ficient. 

Methods  of  paralleling  tubes  to  get  more  power  output  or  the  same  power 
output  with  a  much  wider  bandwidth  have  been  worked  out,  but  recent 


^f^-- 


Fig.  V-8. — Schematic  of  a  "low  noise  figure"  preamplifier. 


developments  in  power  output  tubes  and  in  transmitting  converters  have 
made  them  unnecessary,  except  for  appHcations  requiring  very  wide  band- 
widths. 

Automatic  gain  control  can  be  applied  to  the  IF  amplifiers  by  controlling 
the  grid  bias  of  the  various  stages.  However,  it  is  not  advisable  to  apply 
the  gain  control  bias  to  either  of  those  stages  which  are  preceded  by  the 
special  high-gain  transformers.  In  these  stages  the  slight  changes  in  input 
impedance  of  the  tubes  caused  by  variations  in  the  grid  bias  would  be  suf- 
ficient to  alter  significantly  the  band-pass  characteristics  of  the  transformer. 

Figure  V-9  shows  an  amplifier  with  about  55  db  gain  developed  for  the 
New  York-Boston  circuit.*  Automatic  gain  control  bias  is  applied  to  the 
grids  of  the  first  three  stages  which  employ  wide  band  (K  =  0.7)  matched 
interstage  transformers. 

It  will  be  noted  that  the  first  interstage  transformer  of  the  preamplifier 
and  the  last  interstage  transformer  of  the  main  IF  amplifier  require  low 
coupHng  coefficients  to  obtain  the  gain  desired  at  these  points.     For  this 

*  Developed  by  A.  L.  Hopper  and  B.  C.  Bellows,  Jr. 


230 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


> 


I 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


231 


reason,  these  two  transformers  largely  determine  the  band  pass  and  delay 
distortion  of  the  whole  amplifier.  Typical  overall  characteristics  for  a 
complete  IF  amplifier  are  shown  in  Fig.  V-10. 


3.5 


u)   3.0 


2.0 


1.0 


0.5 


10-9 


(a)  BAND-PASS 
CHARACTERISTICS 

' 

/ 

/ 

/ 

60 

Q 

Z 
O  50 


to 
Z  40 


20 


10 


DELAY    CHARACTERISTICS 

(b)    BEFORE   EQUALIZATION 

(C)    AFTER     EQUALIZATION 

> 

\ 

\(b) 

/ 
1 

1 

X 

.:\ 

\ 

\ 

1 
1 

1 
1 
1 

V 

\ 

1 

// 

"'^ 

\ 

\ 

/ 

55    60    65    70    75    80        50   55    60    65    70    7! 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  V-10. — Band  pass  and  delay  characteristics  of  complete  IF  amplifier. 


Transmitting  Converter,  or  Modulator* 

The  transmitting  converter  problem  diflFered  from  the  first  converter 
problem  in  that  high  output  power  was  the  major  consideration,  rather  than 
low  conversion  loss  and  noise  figure. 

There  will  normally  be  three  frequencies  present  in  the  output  of  a  con- 
verter. These  are  the  desired  output  sideband  frequency,  /',  the  beating 
oscillator  frequency,  /'  +  IF  or  /  —  IF,  and  the  unwanted  sideband  fre- 
quency, /'  +  2  IF  or  /'  —  2  IF.  The  strongest  of  these  is  the  beating  os- 
cillator frequency,  but  fortunately  this  can  be  suppressed  by  20  to  30  db 
by  balance  in  a  balanced  converter.  Investigation  showed  that  the  input 
impedance  at  the  IF  terminals  of  the  modulator  was  affected  by  the  load 
impedance  of  the  modulator  at  both  the  wanted  and  the  unwanted  sideband 
frequencies.  The  load  impedance  consists  of  the  input  impedance  of  the 
RF  amplifier  as  seen  through  the  length  of  transmission  line  which  connects 
the  two  components.  At  the  wanted  sideband  frequency,  the  RF  amplifier 
presents  a  good  termination  and  the  load  impedance  is  independent  of  the 
length  of  the  connecting  line.  At  the  unwanted  sideband  frequency,  how- 
ever, the  RF  amplifier  presents  a  short  circuit  and  hence  the  load  impedance 
is  a  function  of  the  length  of  the  connecting  line.  A  waveguide  filter  was 
incorporated  in  the  output  circuit  of  the  modulator  so  as  to  reflect  the  un- 

*  This  section  prepared  by  W.  W.  Mumford  who  did  the  work  on  the  transmitting 
converters. 


232 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


wanted  sideband  back  into  the  modulator  in  proper  phase,  thereby  making 
the  length  of  the  line  going  to  the  RF  amplifier  much  less  critical.  The 
proper  phase  of  reflection  was  obtained  by  adjusting  the  length  of  the 
waveguide  between  the  modulator  and  the  reflecting  filter.  The  IF  imped- 
ance of  the  crystals  could  thus  be  varied  so  as  to  obtain  an  impedance 
match  between  the  IF  amplifier  and  the  crystals. 


Fig.  V-11. — Exj)erimental  model  of  transmitting  converter. 


An  investigation  of  the  power  capacity  of  various  types  of  standard  and 
special  silicon  crystals  indicated  that  one  similar  to  the  1N28  crystal  was 
the  best  available  for  this  service,  and  life  tests  were  made  to  check  the  sta- 
bility of  the  crystal  under  high  level  conditions.  Special  IF  input  and 
crystal-to-waveguide  matching  circuits  were  developed  to  meet  the  stringent 


i 


MICROWA  VE  REPEA  TER  RESEA  RCH  233 

match  requirements.  The  research  on  these  major  factors  and  many 
subsidiary  details  resulted  in  a  converter  which  had  an  output  of  6  miUi- 
watts  with  less  than  0.1  db  compression,  good  input  and  output  match,  a 
flat  amphtude  response  over  more  than  10  megacycles,  and  a  conversion 
loss  of  about  11  db. 


Fig.  V-12. — Unbalanced  to  balanced  coaxial  transformer  for  feeding  the  65  mc  signal 
to  the  transmitting  converter. 

This  converter,  or  transmitting  modulator,  had  the  1N28  crj^stals  mounted 
in  the  conjugate  branches  of  a  waveguide  hybrid  junction,  as  shown  in  Fig. 
V-11.  Adjustable  coaxial  sleeves  surrounded  the  crystal  cartridges  in  or- 
der to  effect  an  impedance  match  to  the  waveguide,  and  tuning  studs  were 
provided  for  trimming  adjustments.  The  beating  oscillator  was  injected 
into  the  hybrid  junction  through  a  broad-band  coaxial-to-waveguide  trans- 
ducer in  the  upper  branch  of  the  hybrid  junction,  and  the  sidebands  appeared 
in  the  conjugate  waveguide  branch.  The  65-megacycle  signal  was  fed  onto 
the  crystals  in  push-pull  through  the  unbalanced  to  balanced  coaxial  trans- 
former shown  in  Fig.  V-12.  Blocking  condensers  enabled  the  crystal  cur- 
rents to  be  monitored  separately  and  RF  filters  kept  the  4000-megacycle 


234 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


\yM 


> 

bb 


L/i,  -     VU  «.-'^ 


I 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH  235 

energy  from  entering  the  65-megacycle  transformer  compartment.  The 
converter  developed  for  the  New  York-Boston  circuit,  complete  with 
sideband  filter,  spacer,  mounting  brackets  and  d-c.  leads,  is  shown  in  Fig. 
V-13.* 

R.  F.  Amplifier** 

Prior  to  the  war,  a  considerable  arfiount  of  research  had  been  applied  in 
the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  to  electron  tubes  operating  on  the  velocity 
modulation  principle,  with  the  expectation  that  such  tubes  would  find  ap- 
plications in  radio-relay  systems.  Although  this  work  was  interrupted 
by  the  war,  enough  information  had  been  obtained  to  make  it  apparent, 
upon  resumption  of  the  radio  relay  work,  that  such  tubes  were  the  only 
ones  then  known  which  showed  promise  of  meeting  the  stated  requirements. 

Velocity  modulation  tubes  have  been  described  by  several  authors,^^'  ^^'  ^^ 
and  the  theory  of  their  operation  has  been  discussed  adequately  in  several 
places.^2, 33. 34, 35  However,  a  review  in  1939  of  the  structures  then  known 
had  led  to  the  decision  that  a  new  type  of  construction  would  be  necessary 
to  obtain  a  satisfactory  amplifier  tube  for  radio  relay  purposes.  To  keep  the 
tube  voltages  within  reasonable  limits  it  is  desirable  to  make  the  input  and 
output  gaps  as  small  as  possible.  Resonant  circuits  external  to  the  evacu- 
ated envelope  are  desirable  to  enable  coverage  of  as  large  a  frequency  range 
as  possible  with  a  single  tube,  and  to  facihtate  addition  of  broad-banding 
circuits.  Grids  on  the  input  and  output  gaps  are  undesirable  because  of 
the  large  interception  of  current  and  the  dififtculty  and  expense  of  construc- 
tion. 

With  the  above  considerations  in  mind,  decision  was  then  made  to  explore 
the  possibiHties  of  focussed  beams,  and  of  gaps  comprised  of  copper  discs 
sealed  through  a  cylindrical  glass  vacuum  envelope.  The  latter  technique 
had  been  developed  at  the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in  connection  with 

*  Developed  by  H.  C.  Foreman  and  W.  W.  Halbrook. 

**  This  section  prepared  by  A.  G.  Fox  and  A.  E.  Bowen.  Messrs.  Fox  and  Bowen,  in 
collaboration  with  A.  L.  Samuel,  A.  E.  Anderson,  and  J.  W.  Clark  of  these  Laboratories, 
did  the  major  part  of  the  research  which  resulted  in  this  amplifier, 

29  Varian,  R.  H.  and  Varian,  S.  F.,  "A  High  Frequency  Oscillator  and  Amplifier", 
Jour.  Applied  Physics,  vol.  10,  No.  5,  pp.  321-327,  May  1939. 

'» Hahn,  W.  C.  and  Metcalf,  G.  F.,  "Velocity  Modulated  Tubes",  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  vol. 
27,  No.  2,  pp.  106-116,  Feb.  1939. 

31  Harrison,  A.  E.,  "Klystron  Tubes",  McGraw-Hill  Book  Co.,  New  York,  1947. 
(Book) 

32  Hansen,  W.  W.  and  Richtmyer,  R.  D.,  "On  Resonators  Suitable  for  Klystron  Os- 
cUlators",  Jour.  Applied  Physics,  vol.  10,  No.  3,  pp.  189-199,  March  1939. 

33  Hahn,  W.  C,  "Small  Signal  Theory  of  Velocity  Modulated  Electron  Beams",  G.  E. 
Review,  vol.  42,  No.  6,  pp.  258-270,  June  1939. 

3^  Hahn,  W.  C,  "Wave  Energy  and  Transconductance  of  Velocity-Modulated  Elec- 
tron Beams",  G.  E.  Review,  vol.  42,  No.  11,  pp.  497-502,  Nov.  1939. 

36  Ramo,  S.,  "The  Electronic-Wave  Theory  of  Velocity  Modulation  Tubes",  Proc. 
I.  R.  £.,  vol.  27,  No.  12,  pp.  757-763,  Dec.  1939. 


236  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  development  of  water  cooled  tubes,  and  show.ed  promise  of  providing  a 
very  convenient  means  for  construction  of  resonant  circuits  in  which  a 
part  of  the  circuit  was  external  to  the  vacuum  envelope  and  part  was  internal. 

Numerous  forms  of  focussed  beam-disc  seal  velocity  modulation  tubes 
were  constructed  for  examination  of  the  various  factors  affecting  the  per- 
formance of  such  tubes.  Sizes  and  shapes  of  gaps,  length  of  drift  space, 
voltage  and  beam  current,  and  other  factors  were  adjusted  to  optimize  the 
performance.  Both  magnetic  and  electrostatic  focussing  of  the  beam  were 
explored.  Triple  gap  tubes,  from  which  gains  of  more  than  30  db  were  ob- 
tained, were  experimented  with. 

The  end  result  of  this  work  was  the  development  of  a  four-stage  amplifier 
employing  velocity  modulation  tubes  of  the  disc-seal  type  (Fig.  V-14) 
designed  especially  for  this  application.*  The  electron  gun  is  at  the  left, 
and  the  collector  is  at  the  right.  These  tubes  employ  external  circuits  in 
the  form  of  resonant  cavities  assembled  around  the  tube.     The  electron 


'Y"'^''  f ' 


Fig.  V-14. — Disc  seal  velocity  modulation  tube. 

beams  are  accelerated  by  1500  volts  and  focussed  magnetically  by  means  of 
small  alnico  permanent  magnets  placed  around  the  cavity  structure  as  shown 
in  Fig.  V-15.  This  shows  a  single  stage  of  coaxial-coupled  amplifier  with 
half  of  each  cavity  removed  to  show  internal  details.  The  cavities  are 
tunable  over  approximately  a  250-megacycle  range  by  means  of  metal  screw 
plugs  located  around  their  periphery.  Two  different  sets  of  cavities  are 
sufficient  to  cover  the  entire  frequency  range  of  the  radio  repeater. 

A  single  amplifier  stage  of  the  type  shown  in  Fig.  V-15  will  exhibit  a 
single-tuned  type  of  gain  characteristic  which  is  only  5  megacycles  wide  at 
the  3  db  points  when  operated  under  matched  input  and  output  impedance 
conditions.  It  was  therefore  necessary  to  widen  the  band  by  using  double- 
tuned  circuits  throughout.  In  fact  such  a  design  would  be  difficult  to  avoid 
because  each  tube  has  its  own  resonant  cavities.  By  running  a  short  length 
of  waveguide  or  coaxial  transmission  line  from  the  output  cavity  of  one  stage 
to  the  input  cavity  of  the  next,  a  double-tuned  structure  results  auto- 
matically.    The  coupling  from  cavity  to  transmission  line  is  made  by  means 

*  These  tubes  were  developed  by  A.  L,  Samuel  and  J.  W.  Clark. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


237 


of  a  window  in  the  side  of  the  cavity  when  a  waveguide  line  is  used,  and  by 
means  of  a  wire  loop  projecting  within  the  cavity  when  a  coaxial  line  is  used. 
Amplifiers  employing  both  types  of  coupling  were  designed  and  tested.  The 
coaxial  coupling  type  with  links  approximately  one-half  wavelength  long 


MAGNET 


i"- 


^^ 


•€•■-) 


,ii>^''iij 


^ 


Fig  V-15  —A  single  stage  of  a  coaxial-coupled  amplifier  using  the  velocity  modulated 

tube  of  Fig.  V-14. 


proved  the  easier  to  adjust.  Variation  of  the  coupHng  from  zero  to  a  maxi- 
mum is  accompHshed  by  rotating  the  plane  of  the  coupling  loop  through 
90°.  Each  cavity  is  provided  with  a  small  plate  of  resistance  fihn  pro- 
jecting into  the  field  in  such  a  way  that  rotation  of  the  plate  about  an  axis 
lying  in  the  plane  of  the  plate  will  vary  the  resistive  loading  present  in  the 
cavity  from  zero  to  a  maxunum.     Finally,  the  input  and  output  cavities  of 


238  BELL  SYSTEM  TECBNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  first  and  last  stages  respectively  are  coupled  to  separate  tuned  cavities 
iu  order  to  provide  double-tuned  terminals  for  the  amplifier.  This  results 
in  the  overall  structure  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  V-16. 

The  required  bandwidth  is  obtained  by  a  process  of  stagger-coupling  the 
circuits  so  that  the  individual  responses  are  as  indicated  schematically  at 
the  top  of  Fig.  V-16.  Because  there  are  available  continuously  variable 
adjustments  of  tuning,  loading,  and  coupling  for  each  circuit,  it  is  possible 
to  obtain  a  very  smooth  and  symmetrical  overall  response  characteristic  as 
shown  in  Fig.  V-17.  The  corresponding  measured  delay  distortion  charac- 
teristic is  shown  in  Fig.  V-18.  For  this  type  of  tuning  the  output  power  is 
about  .7  watt  at  ^  db  of  compression.  More  power  is,  however,  obtainable 
if  more  compression  is  tolerable;  and  when  used  in  the  repeater  for  the 
transmission  of  FM  signals,  the  amplifier  is  driven  to  an  output  of  1  watt. 

Since  the  circuits  are  of  fairly  high  Q,  the  frequency  characteritics  of  the 
amplifier  are  markedly  affected  by  changes  in  temperature  of  the  cavities. 
In  order  to  minimize  such  detuning  effects,  the  amplifier  has  been  placed  in 
a  temperature  controlled  compartment.  Since  about  45  watts  are  dissipated 
at  the  collector  of  each  tube  by  the  high- voltage  electron  beam,  the  collectors 
must  be  cooled  by  a  forced  air  blast.  In  order  to  keep  the  cooling  system 
separate  from  the  temperature  control  system,  the  collector  ends  of  the  tubes 
project  through  a  wall  of  the  temperature  controlled  compartment  into  an 
external  air  duct.  Figure  V-19  shows  a  complete  r.f.  amplifier  with  the 
cover  of  the  temperature  control  box  removed.  This  is  the  amplifier  de- 
veloped for  the  New  York-Boston  circuit.*  The  electron-gun  ends  of  the 
tubes  face  the  reader.  Short  lengths  of  flexible  coaxial  cable  couple  the 
input  and  output  of  the  amplifier  to  the  associated  equipment. 

Testing  of  Components  and  Repeater  Amplifier — Many  special  measuring 
and  testing  techniques  had  to  be  devised  for  the  research  work  on  each  com- 
ponent. In  addition,  standard  production  tests  had  to  be  worked  out  and 
measuring  equipment  constructed. 

Impedances  were  measured  at  RF  with  standing  wave  detectors,  and  at 
IF  with  three  fixed  taps  on  a  coaxial  line.  It  was  found  that  input  and 
output  SW  ratios  could  be  held  to  1.7  db  or  less  over  the  10  megacycle  band. 
Both  point  by  point  and  swept  oscillator  methods  were  used  at  RF  and  IF  for 
measuring  amplitude  characteristics.  Particularly  as  a  result  of  the  de- 
velopment of  swept  oscillator  measuring  techniques  it  was  found  practicable 
to  adjust  each  unit  to  ±0.1  db  amplitude  variation  over  the  10  megacycle 
band.  Noise  figures^''  of  IF  equipment  were  measured  by  the  noise  diode 
method.^® 

*  Developed  by  F.  E.  Radcliflfe  and  R.  C.  Carlton. 
"  Loc.  cit. 

"H.  Johnson,  "A  Coaxial  Line  Diode  Noise  Source  for  U.H.F.",  R.  C.  A.  Review, 
vol.  VIII,  No.  1,  pp.  169-185,  March  1947. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


239 


240 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


A  method'^  of  measuring  the  phase  and  group  delay  characteristics  of 
the  repeater  was  worked  out.  This  is  a  rather  difficult  measurement  to 
make  because  the  tolerable  phase  and  delay  distortion  are  very  small  due 
to  the  wide  band  of  the  system.  Relative  group  delay  through  the  band 
was  measured  with  an  accuracy  of  about  ±0.001  microsecond.  This  cor- 
responds to  an  accuracy  in  relative  phase  shift  of  about  zb0.35°.  The 
measured  distortion  agreed  reasonably  well  with  the  distortion  calcu- 
lated from  the  constants  of  the  various  circuits.  These  measurements  and 
calculations  showed  that  while  the  characteristics  of  an  8-link  repeater 


24 


23 


0^' 

ai 

Q 

Z 
-  20 

Z 


4048  4050  4052   4054  4056   4058   4060   4062   4064  4066   4068   4070   4072 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  y-17. — Frequency  response  of  RF  amplifier. 

circuit  will  give  acceptable  television  pictures,  phase  equalization  will 
provide  a  definite  improvement.  Longer  circuits  will  therefore  require 
phase  equalization.  Equalizers  were  devised  for  both  the  IF  and  RF 
circuits  which  made  it  possible  to  equalize  the  group  delay  of  each  compo- 
nent of  the  repeater  amplifier  to  ±0.001  microsecond  over  the  10-mc  band. 
An  experimental  repeater  amplifier  was  set  up  so  that  the  output  could 
be  fed  through  an  attenuator  to  the  input.  It  was  then  possible  to  break 
the  loop  and  make  overall  tests  of  delay,  amplitude  linearity,  and  transient 
response  with  IF  measuring  equipment.  Transient  response  was  measured 
by  including  a  2(XX)-foot  waveguide  line  between  the  input  and  output 
terminals  and  applying  the  circulated  pulse  testing  technique.^^    This 

"  D.  H.  Ring,  "The  Measurement  of  Delay  Distortion  in  Microwave  Repeaters", 
elsewhere  in  this  issue  of  the  B.  S.  T.  J. 

»  A.  C.  Beck  and  D.  H.  Ring,  "Testing  Repeaters  with  Circulated  Pulses",  Proc. 
I.  R.  E.,  vol.  35,  No.  11,  pp.  1226-1230,  November  1947. 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


241 


testing  method  permits  a  study  of  the  shapes  of  rectangular  pulses  which 
have  passed  through  a  repeater  amplifier  many  times,  and  thus  simulates 
transmission  through  a  relay  system  with  many  repeaters.  Figure  V-20 
shows  an  example  of  the  results  obtained  from  such  tests  made  on  the  IF 
amplifier  alone.     The  top  row  shows  a  1.25-microsecond  test  pulse  after  1, 


34' 

32 
30 
28 
26 
24 

0 

m  20 
2    18 

Q 
>    '^ 

m    12 
tr 

10 
8 
6 
4 
2 
0 

10-9 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

I 

f 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

\, 

y 

/ 

\ 

N, 

y 

y 

S 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

^ 

^ 

/ 

4052      4054     4056     4058     4060     4062     4064     4066      4068 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  V-18. — Delay  characteristic  of  RF  amplifier. 

10,  and  30  trips  through  the  IF  amplifier.  Part  of  the  distortion  appearing 
after  one  trip  through  the  amplifier  was  in  the  viewing  oscilloscope.  It 
was  difficult  to  detect  distortion  from  a  single  trip  through  the  amplifier, 
but  Fig.  V-20  demonstrates  how  it  increases  with  successive  trips.  The 
second  row  of  pulse  pictures  shows  the  improvement  achieved  by  adding 
phase  equalizers  to  the  circuit.  It  was  particularly  noticeable  in  this  test 
that  without  equalizers  the  details  in  the  shape  of  the  pulse  after  10  or  30 
trips  were  very  sensitive  to  the  exact  value  of  the  intermediate  frequency. 


242 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


be 


I 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


243 


When  the  equahzers  were  added,  the  pulse  shapes  shown  in  the  second  row 
were  not  greatly  changed  for  variations  of  ±3  megacycles  or  more  in  the 
intermediate  frequency. 

In  concluding  this  section  it  should  be  noted  that  when  the  various  com- 
ponents were  connected  together  to  form  an  IF-type  repeater  amplifier, 
it  was  found  that  the  amplitude  and  phase  characteristics  added  as  expected 
and  resulted  in  a  satisfactory  amplifier  with  only  a  few  millimicroseconds 
variation  in  delay  and  only  a  few  tenths  of  a  db  variation  in  amplitude  over 
a  10-megacycle  band.     Nevertheless,  the  equipment  is  very  complicated. 


1  TIME 


10  TIMES 


30  TIMES 


AMPLIFIER   WfTH   EQUALIZER 
Fig.  V-20. — Results  of  circulated  pulse  tests  on  IF  amplifier. 

A  straight-through  radio  frequency  amplifier  repeater  is  still  to  be  desired 
and,  no  doubt,  further  research  will  eventually  produce  such  an  amplifier. 

VI.  The  Complete  Repeater* 

In  the  preceding  section  it  has  been  pointed  out  how  the  various  compo- 
nents that  make  up  the  repeater  amplifier  were  added  together  without  the 
introduction  of  additional  distortion.  The  antennas,  filters  and  amplifiers 
which  go  to  make  up  one  of  the  complete  repeaters  shown  in  Fig.  II- 1  were 
designed  with  the  same  ease  of  interconnection  in  mind.  However,  as  will 
be  discussed  below,  the  length  of  the  waveguide  lines  used  for  these  connec- 
tions has  an  important  bearing  on  the  distortion  introduced. 

The  large  amount  of  equipment  in  the  repeater  amplifier  makes  it 
desirable,  from  the  maintenance  standpoint,  to  locate  the  amplifier  near 
the  ground  and  to  provide  towers  for  the  antenna  where  antenna  elevation 

*  Prepared  by  D.  H.  Ring. 


244 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


is  necessary.  This  means  relatively  long  transmission  lines  between  the 
antenna  and  the  rest  of  the  repeater.  If  exact  termination  of  the  line  by 
the  antenna  impedance  or  by  the  filter  input  impedance  were  possible  no 
distortion  would  be  produced,  but  in  general  there  will  be  a  slight  mismatch 
and  a  corresponding  reflection  of  energy  at  each  of  these  junctions  which 


LINE  ATTENUATION   CONSTANT 
LINE   VELOCITY  =  V 


REFLECTION   COEFFICIENTS  ".    V. 


=^ 


_Zo-Zi  . 

Zn+Z, ' 


I  =  E 


'^^2  .-oci  e-J» 


Zo+Z,  " 


TAN^  =  iifTAN^ 


'l+p2-2/5C0S^^ 


r3  = 


Z0-Z2 
Z0+Z2 


-*\  some  }^FOR  I  =  0.94m 

■*\  20  mc  K-  FOR  I  =  3.75  m 

-*►!  smc  [♦  FOR  1=  15m 

->t  l.25mc  (♦  FOR  I  =  6om 


\-p 


>v=3xio'°cm/sec 


\-p' 


I+/32_2pCOS-^^ 

Dmax-Dmin=4p-|^sec 


(/3«1) 


2T\ir        (2n+i)7r      (2n+2)7r     (2n+3)7r      (2rn-4)7r 
4  7rl  ^ 


Fig.  VI- 1. — Effect  of  long  lines  on  the  amplitude  and  delay  distortion  of  a  repeater. 


will  produce  variations  in  the  amphtude  and  delay  of  the  signal  throughout 
the  desired  band.  These  variations  may  be  greater  than  those  produced 
anywhere  else  in  the  repeater. 

The  type  of  distortion  originating  in  this  way  is  illustrated  by  Fig.  VI- 1. 
In  this  figure  there  is  represented  an  antenna  of  impedance  Zi  connected 
by  a  line  of  length  I  and  characteristic  impedance  Zo,  to  a  load,  Z2.  In  actual 
practice  this  load  is  the  impedance  presented  by  the  filter  to  the  line  from 


MICROWAVE  REPEATER  RESEARCH 


245 


the  antenna.  The  variations  produced  in  both  the  ampHtude  and  delay 
of  the  signal  currents  are  shown  by  the  curves  in  the  figure  where  relative 
change  in  the  characteristics  in  question  are  shown  as  ordinates  and  values 

of  the  quantity  — -  are  shown  as  abscissas. 

It  will  be  seen  from  these  curves  that  the  amount  of  variation  over  a  given 
band  is  a  function  of  the  line  length.  With  short  Imes  the  amount  of  varia- 
tion over  a  band  10  mc  wide  can  be  kept  very  small,  but  with  lines  about 
150  feet  in  length  there  may  be  three  or  four  full  cycles  of  variations  in 
a  band  10  megacycles  wide.  Table  A  gives  some  typical  values  of  the  varia- 
tions. Values  are  given  for  those  degrees  of  mismatch  which  would  produce 
standing  wave  ratios  of  1, 1.4  and  2  db  at  the  junctions.  It  will  be  seen  that 
for  lines  between  100  and  200  feet  in  length  the  variations  in  some  cases  are 
greater  than  the  limits  achieved  in  the  multistage  amplifiers  and  other  com- 

Table  a 


SWRi  =  SWR2  in  db  (a  =  0).   . 

1 
0.058 

1.4 
0.082 

2 

rx  =  r-i                      (a  =  0) 

0.115 

Max.  Amplitude  Variation  in  dh 

Max.  Delay  Variation  in  10-^  seconds 

t  =  100  feet 

0.058 
1.33 

0.116                0.233 
2.67                  5.33 

/  =  200  feet 

2.67 

5.33                10.66 

ponents  of  the  system.  Furthermore,  it  is  usually  impractical  to  compensate 
or  tune  out  these  variations  because  they  are  functions  of  the  electrical 
length  of  the  transmission  lines  and  subject  to  change  with  temperature, 
frequency,  and  other  small  mechanical  and  electrical  changes.  It  would 
appear  that  with  present  techniques  this  may  be  one  of  the  most  serious 
sources  of  distortion  in  a  long  relay  system. 

VII.  Conclusion 

Various  phases  of  our  work  on  microwave  repeater  circuits  have  been  dis- 
cussed. Such  a  circuit,  made  up  of  several  repeaters  as  described  in  the 
last  section,  may  be  looked  upon  as  a  four-terminal  network  having  speci- 
fied ampHtude  and  delay  characteristics  and  should  be  suitable  for  the  trans- 
mission of  any  signals  for  which  the  characteristics  are  adequate  whether 
they  be  television  signals  or  those  of  one  of  the  various  forms  of  multi- 
plex telephony.  It  is  outside  the  scope  of  this  paper  to  discuss  the  uses  to 
which  such  a  repeater  circuit  might  be  put  or  the  terminal  equipment  that 
any  particular  service  might  require. 

The  New  York-Boston  repeater  circuit  has  been  built  to  provide  the  ex- 
perimental field  trials  necessary  to  answer  many  remaining  questions  which 


246  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

deal  with  the  performance  of  an  actual  circuit.     The  results  of  these  trials 
will  be  reported  in  a  separate  paper. 

Acknowledgements 

The  work  which  has  been  discussed  in  this  report  of  necessity  involved 
the  combined  efforts  of  many  individuals.  In  addition  to  those  already 
mentioned,  practically  every  other  member  of  the  staffs  of  the  Deal  and 
Holmdel  Radio  Laboratories  has  made  valuable  contributions  to  the  work, 
as  have  also  many  in  other  departments  of  the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 

The  development  of  the  components  of  the  New  York-Boston  circuit  has 
been  under  the  direction  of  Mr.  Gordon  N.  Thayer. 

In  particular,  we  wish  to  acknowledge  the  support  and  stimulating  advice 
of  Dr.  R.  Bown  under  whose  general  direction  the  work  progressed. 


The  Measurement  of  Delay  Distortion  in  Microwave  Repeaters* 

By  D.  H.  RING 

Measuring  equipment  is  described  which  is  capable  of  measuring  delay  distor- 
tion of  the  order  of  10" ^  seconds  in  a  wide  band  microwave  television  relay 
repeater.  Two  measuring  circuits  are  discussed .  The  first  is  a  circuit  for  meas- 
uring the  relative  phase  shift  versus  frequency  from  which  the  delay  distortion 
may  be  computed.  The  second  circuit  gives  the  delay  directly  from  a  single 
measuremen  t.  The  measuring  equipment  is  designed  to  work  in  the  intermediate 
frequency  range  from  50  to  80  megacycles,  but  by  applying  suitable  conversion 
equipment  measurements  can  be  made  at  microwave  frequencies. 

THE  successful  transmission  of  broadband  television  and  pulse  signals 
over  any  communication  circuit  depends  upon  the  preservation  of  the 
complex  wave  shapes  of  the  original  transmitted  signals.  Fourier  analysis 
tells  us  that  a  complex  signal  wave  can  be  resolved  into  a  spectrum  of  fre- 
quencies with  certain  amplitude  and  phase  relationships.  It  is  well  known 
that  the  amplitude  relationships  of  all  essential  frequencies  in  this  spectrum 
must  be  substantially  preserved.  It  is  equally  important  that  the  phase 
relationships  of  the  essential  frequencies  should  be  preserved.  The  in- 
stantaneous value  of  the  received  signal  is  the  vector  sum  of  the  instanta- 
neous amplitudes  of  all  the  component  frequencies.  Therefore,  if  the 
relative  phase  of  some  frequency  component  is  changed  by  180°  the  sign  of 
its  contribution  to  the  output  is  reversed,  and  it  is  clear  that  a  closer  ap- 
proximation to  the  original  signal  could  be  obtained  by  suppressing  this 
frequency  component  rather  than  permitting  it  to  contribute  negatively 
to  the  output. 

It  can  be  shown^  that  the  relative  phase  relations  of  the  component 
frequencies  in  a  complex  signal  wave  will  be  preserved  if  the  phase  shift  in 
passing  through  a  circuit  is  a  linear  function  of  the  angular  frequency. 
That  is 

iS    =     Toco    +    WTT  (1) 

where  To  is  a  constant  and  n  an  integer.  Distortion  of  the  transmitted 
signal  will  occur  if  Tq  is  not  constant  over  the  essential  frequency  band  of 
the  signal.  We  shall  not  be  interested  in  distortion  due  to  n  not  being  an 
integer^  since  this  case  does  not  occur  in  carrier  circuits  where  the  phase 
shift  at  carrier  frequency,  rather  than  the  phase  shift  at  zero  frequency,  is 

*  Presented  at  National  Convention  of  I.  R.  E.,  New  York  City,  March  4, 1947. 

1  Phase  Distortion  and  Phase  Distortion  Correction,  S.  P.  Mead,  B.S.TJ.,  April  1928. 
199-201. 

2  Phase  Distortion  in  Telephone  Apparatus,  C.  E.  Lane,  B.S.TJ.,  July  1930,  494-496. 

247 


248 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


the  reference  point  for  phase.     Departure  of  /3  from  the  linear  relationship 
given  by  (1)  is  the  phase  distortion  in  the  circuit. 


5.5 


5.0 


^  4.0 

< 

O 

a  3.5 

z 

<:::^3.0 


(/I 

<  2.0 

Q. 


0.5 


_/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

*^^ 

,-'- 

y 

/ 

y 

y 

/ 

"^ 

/ 

/ 
/ 
f 

. 





(a)^ 

-< 

;?'*' 

/ 

/ 

Cb), 

/ 

y 

/ 

y 

/ 

^ 

4 

/ 

/ 

-^ 

/ 
/ 

/  • 

y 

/ 
/ 

^' 

• 

—  "^ 

0.4      0.5         0.6         0.7 


0.9 


1.0  1. 


1.2 


1.5 


1.6 


Fig.  1 — Typical  phase  shift  curves  for  various  types  of  circuits 

a.  A  Transmission  line  terminated  in  its  characteristic  impedance. 

b.  A  single  tuned  circuit. 

c.  Two  tuned  circuits  with  approximately  critical  coupling. 

The  time  of  transmission^  or  the  delay  in  passing  through  the  circuit  is 
obtained  by  differentiating  (1): 


Delay  =  f 


To  seconds 


(2) 


Variation  in  To  with  frequency  is  the  delay  distortion  in  the  circuit. 

Figure  1  shows  some  typical  phase  curves,  and  Fig.  2  shows  the  corre- 
sponding delay  curves.  In  each  figure  curve  (a)  represents  an  ideal  dis- 
tortionless circuit  with  linear  phase  and  constant  delay  such  as  a  simple 
transmission  line.     Curves  (b)  are  obtained  for  single  resonant  circuits, 

•  To  has  also  been  called  the  group  delay  and  the  envelope  delay. 


I 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELAY  DISTORTION 


249 


and  curves  (c)  for  coupled  double  tuned  circuits.  It  is  felt  that  the  delay 
curves  of  Fig.  2  are  easier  to  interpret  and  give  a  better  physical  picture 
of  the  distortion  resulting  from  phase  variations  than  the  phase  curves  of 
Fig.  1.  Therefore,  most  of  the  following  discussion  will  be  in  terms  of 
delay  rather  than  phase. 


6.0 


5.5 


5.0 


4.5 


(0  4.0 
o 

z 
o 

HI  3.5 
«0 

z 

.►3.0 


xCJo" 


2.5 


1.5 


1.0 


0.5 


/ 

\ 
\ 

1 

/ 

/ 
/ 

\ 

./ 

K 

\ 

\ 

/ 

/"\ 

V" 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 

1 

f\ 

\ 

■■'\-    ■ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

\ 

(a) 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

Ub) 

\ 

\ 
\ 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 
/ 

\ 

\ 

/ 
/ 

f 

i 

/ 

\ 
\ 

\ 
\ 

i 

1 

/ 

/ 
/ 

T 

\ 

v 

\ 

/ 

f 

\ 

\ 

^ 

\ 

/ 

r 

\ 

\ 

^ 

\J 

"^^ 

^**. 

0.4      0.5        0.6         0.7 


as        0.9 


1.0  1.1 

{J 
Wo 


1.2 


1.3 


1.4 


1.5 


1.7 


Fig.  2 — Typical  delay  curves  for  various  types  of  circuits 

a.  A  transmission  line  terminated  in  its  characteristic  impedance. 

b.  A  single  tuned  circuit. 

c.  Two  tuned  circuits  with  approximately  critical  coupling. 

Thus  far  we  have  considered  the  general  case  and  stated  that  the  delay 
must  be  constant  over  the  essential  frequency  band  for  distortionless  trans- 
mission. It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  when  delay  distortion  is  pres- 
ent different  types  of  signals  may  be  affected  differently.  For  instance,  in 
the  case  of  an  amplitude  modulated  carrier  of  angular  frequency  wo,  Fig. 
2,  we  note  that  if  the  delay  curves  have  arithmetic  symmetry  about  coo,  then 
the  sidebands  at  coo  ±  Aw  will  suffer  the  same  delay  and  therefore  will  add 


250  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

in  phase  upon  demodulation.  If  the  delay  distortion  is  not  symmetrical 
about  Wo  the  sidebands  will  not  add  in  phase  upon  demodulation,  and  the 
demodulated  output  will  suffer  both  amplitude  distortion  and  some  delay 
distortion  which  differs  from  the  delay  distortion  at  both  wo  +  Aw  and  wo 
—  Aw.  In  the  case  of  frequency  modulation  dissymmetry  introduces 
harmonics  in  the  demodulated  output.  A  detailed  discussion  of  these 
effects  is  beyond  the  scope  of  this  paper,  but  we  may  note  that  in  general 
a  true  picture  of  the  delay  distortion  in  carrier  circuits  is  not  readily  ob- 
tained by  observing  the  demodulated  output  and  that  an  unsymmetrical 
delay  distortion  is  particularly  undesirable  in  carrier  circuits. 

Principles  of  Delay  Measurement 

Delay  cannot  be  measured  directly  on  a  steady  state  basis  with  a  single 
test  signal  in  the  simple  manner  in  which  amplitude  response  is  measured. 
Instead,  the  phase  shift  through  the  unknown  network  must  be  measured 
at  two  adjacent  frequencies  and  the  delay,  or  slope  of  the  phase  shift, 
computed  from  the  relation 

T^f  (3) 

Aco 

Figure  3  illustrates  the  computation  of  the  average  delay  in  the  interval 
Aco  from  two  phase  measurements. 

The  steady  state  phase  shift  of  an  unknown  network  can  be  measured 
by  using  the  basic  circuit  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  4.*  This  is  essentially 
a  bridge  circuit  in  which  the  phase  shift  in  the  unknown  is  balanced  by  an 
equivalent  calibrated  phase  shifter.  The  phase  comparator  is  some  kind 
of  device  which  will  give  an  indication  of  a  known  relationship  between  the 
phases  of  the  signals  arriving  over  the  unknown  path  and  the  known  refer- 
ence path. 

The  exact  form  of  suitable  components  and  circuit  arrangements  for 
applying  the  basic  method  of  Fig.  4  to  a  particular  delay  measuring  problem 
is  largely  determined  by  the  order  of  magnitude  of  the  delay  to  be  meas- 
ured and  accuracy  desired.  In  the  case  of  microwave  television  repeaters 
we  are  interested  in  video  bands  of  the  order  of  5  mc  wide.  As  a  rough 
estimate  we  might  say  that  the  highest  frequency  in  the  band  should  not 
be  shifted  more  than  one  quarter  period  from  its  normal  phase  position. 
In  the  case  of  linear  delay  distortion  or  a  parabolic  phase-frequency  char- 
acteristic, one  quarter  period  for  5  mc  is  0.05  microseconds.  In  a  repeater 
system  with  50  repeaters  this  yields  a  tolerable  systematic  delay  distortion 
of  10-*  seconds  per  repeater.    Therefore  we  conclude  that  in  developing 

*  Measurement  of  Phase  Distortion,  H.  Nyquist  and  S.  Brand,  B.S.TJ.,  July  1930, 
526-527. 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELAY  DISTORTION 


251 


repeaters  for  this  service  an  accuracy  of  better  than  10-^  microseconds  in 
measuring  the  relative  delay  over  a  band  of  frequencies  will  be  desirable. 
The  phase  shift,  A/3  in  Fig.  3,  which  corresponds  to  a  delay  of  10-^  seconds 
is  a  function  of  the  measuring  interval  Aco  =  IttAJ.    If  A/  is  small  AjS  will 


FREQUENCY,   U)    *' 

Fig.  3 — Factors  involved  in  calculating  the  delay  of  an  electrical  circuit 


MEASURING 
BRANCH 

NETWORK  TO 
BE  MEASURED 

J 

■> 

SIGNAL 
GENERATOR 

PHASE 
COMPARATOR 

•\ 

MEASURING 
PHASE  SHIFTER 

J 

REFERENCE 
BRANCH 

Fig.  4 — Basic  circuit  for  measuring  the  phase  shift  in  a  network 


be  small  and  difficult  to  measure.  If  A/  is  large  the  average  slope  measured 
will  not  be  the  true  slope  in  the  center  of  the  interval.  For  a  5-megacycle 
video  signal  the  intermediate  and  radio  frequency  bands  of  interest  will 
be  in  excess  of  10  megacycles  wide.  These  considerations  led  to  a  choice 
of  1  megacycle  as  a  reasonable  value  for  A/.  If  A/  =  1  megacycle  a  phase 
shift  A/3  =  0.36°  will  result  from  a  delay  of  10'^  seconds. 


252 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Two  circuits  for  measuring  delay  distortion  will  be  described.  The 
first  is  a  phase  measuring  circuit  which,  in  principle,  is  an  adaptation  of 
Fig.  4  to  practical  operation  at  intermediate  frequencies.  The  second 
circuit  is  a  modification  in  which  two  frequencies  differing  by  A/  are  fed 
through  the  circuit  under  test  simultaneously  in  such  a  way  that  the  differ- 
ence in  the  phase  shift  at  the  two  frequencies  is  measured.  This  arrange- 
ment permits  the  calculation  of  the  delay  from  a  single  measurement  and 
is,  therefore,  a  delay  measuring  circuit. 


MEASUR 

NG 

BRANCH 

V 

y 

ATTENU- 

NETWORK 

TO  BE 
MEASURED 

DETECTOR 

ATOR 

-^ 

AMPL 

IFIER 

F 

t 

ATTENUATORS 

f 

\/ 

SIGNAL 
OSCILLATOR 

^ 

SLOTTED 
COAXIAL 

•^ 

r 

CATHODE- RAY    /^1"^ 

1  i 
il 

-*,l                  ^-.^.^^^-.^>..  ^  J         LA_ 

[,                               DPI  AY 

\             J 

BEATING 
OSCILLATOR 

^ 

A 

Si 

/  \ 

IFIER 

I 

\ 

BALANCING 

AMPL 

ATTENU- 
ATOR 

— H 

LINE 

-*■ 

DETECTOR 

y 

\ 

JCt 

REFEREh 

E  B 

RA 

NCH 

Fig.  5 — Schematic  circuit  for  the  precise  measurement  of  phase  shift  in  the  interme- 
diate frequency  range. 


Phase  Measuring  Circuit 

Figure  5  shows  a  schematic  diagram  of  a  phase  measuring  circuit  which 
has  been  found  to  be  suitable  for  precision  measurements  of  wide-band 
circuits  in  the  intermediate  frequency  range  of  50  to  80  megacycles.  It 
is  a  double  detection  system  with  an  intermediate  frequency  of  one  mega- 
cycle. The  test  signal  oscillator  and  the  beating  oscillator  are  ganged  to  a 
single  control  and  adjusted  to  track  so  that  they  maintain  a  difference  of 
approximately  one  megacycle  throughout  their  tuning  range.  The  test 
signal  is  fed  to  a  sliding  contact  on  a  section  of  air  dielectric  coaxial  trans- 
mission line.  The  signal  divides  at  this  point  to  feed  the  test  branch  and 
reference  branch. 

The  sliding  tap  on  the  coaxial  line  provides  a  high  precision  measuring 
phase  shifter  if  the  coaxial  line  is  well  terminated  at  each  end.  The  rela- 
tive change  A/3  in  phase  of  the  signals  at  the  two  ends  of  the  line  when  the 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELAY  DISTORTION 


253 


slider  is  moved  a  distance  Aa:  is  two  times  the  phase  shift  corresponding  to 
the  movement  of  the  sUder  at  the  working  frequency  or 


A^  = 


nof^x 


degrees 


where  c  is  the  velocity  of  light. 

For  Ax  =  0.1  centimeter  and/  =  65  megacycles,  AjS  is  0.156  degrees. 

The  measuring  branch  and  reference  branch  feed  through  the  network  to 
be  measured  and  a  balancing  line  respectively  to  identical  detectors  and 
one  megacycle  amplifiers.  The  amplifiers  are  connected  to  the  plates  of  a 
cathode  ray  oscilloscope  which  is  used  as  a  phase  comparator.    A  cathode 


x  =  A  cos  cji 

Y  =  A  SIN    (Cjt  +  9) 
S  =  2A  SIN  e 

IF  A  =  3"AND  e-  o.r 

THEN   S  ^  0.01" 

Fig.  6 — Calculation  of  the  sensitivity  of  a  cathode  ray  oscilloscope  as  a  phase  com- 
parator. 

ray  oscilloscope  has  the  advantage  that  the  phase  comparison  with  this 
instrument  is  independent  of  either  the  relative  or  absolute  amplitudes  of 
the  two  signals.  A  straight  line  on  the  oscilloscope  always  indicates  that 
the  two  voltages  are  in  phase  (or  phase  opposition)  regardless  of  the  relative 
amphtudes,  which  determine  the  slope  of  the  fine.  The  sensitivity,  of 
course,  is  a  function  of  the  amplitudes.  Figure  6  illustrates  how  the  sensi- 
tivity of  an  oscilloscope  phase  comparator  can  be  calculated.  If  each 
signal  alone  produces  a  6-inch  deflection,  then  0.1  degree  phase  difference 
produces  an  opening  of  the  pattern  of  0.01  inches,  which  is  sufficient  to  be 
detected  on  a  "rocking"  or  in-out  basis. 

It  is  obvious  that  a  circuit  of  this  type  measures  the  difference  in  the  phase 
shifts  of  the  two  branches.  The  measured  phase  shift  is,  therefore,  the 
absolute  phase  shift  in  the  measuring  branch  less  the  phase  shift  in  the  ref- 


254 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


erence  branch.  The  balancing  line  shown  in  the  reference  branch  of  Fig. 
5  can  be  adjusted  in  length  so  that  it  balances  out  the  average  delay  in  the 
measuring  branch.  The  measured  remainder  will  then  be  the  distortion 
in  the  measuring  branch,  since  a  good  transmission  line  does  not  have 
phase  or  delay  distortion.  The  use  of  a  balancing  line  in  the  reference 
branch  simplifies  measurements  by  reducing  the  range  of  movement  of  the 
slider,  and  it  greatly  decreases  the  errors  in  the  calculation  of  the  delay 
distortion  due  to  inaccuracies  in  the  measuring  interval  A/. 

The  simphfied  diagram  of  Fig.  7  will  be  used  to  show  how  the  delay  of 
the  unknown  network  can  be  calculated.  With  the  signal  oscillator  set  at 
frequency  /i  the  slider  is  adjusted  until  the  signals  at  C  and  E  are  in  phase 


- 

— *► 

NETWORK  TO 
BE   MEASURED 

c 

B 

SLOTTED 
COAXIAL 

"♦ — 

^ 

A 
1 

afx 

-f 

X 

1 

▼ 

a 

1 

1 
1 

t 

^000^ 

OSCILLATOR 

D 

o 

DELAY  BALANCING   LINE 
(VELOCITY  =  V) 

Fig.  7 — Simplified  circuit  electrically  equivalent  to  the  circuit  of  Fig.  5. 

as  indicated  by  a  straight  line  on  the  oscilloscope,  and  the  corresponding 
distance  Xi  is  measured.  The  relationships  between  the  phases  of  the 
signals  at  the  various  points  in  the  circuit  are: 


<t>C    —    <f>A    ~    <f>AB    —   <f>BC 


(4) 


ms 


<t>B    —    <f>A    —    <f>AD 


(5) 


0c    = 


where  ^  is  the  phase  shift  in  the  unknown  network  at  frequency /i.     Solving 
for  /3, 


,  =  M'[^+2..-.] 


(6) 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELAY  DISTORTION  255 

The  signal  oscillator  frequency  is  then  changed  to/2  =  /i  +  A/ and  the  slider 
readiusted  to  the  position  X2  that  again  makes  4>c  =   <i>B'    Then  as  above 


,'  =  ?^^[^  +  2.,-.] 


(7) 


where  /3'  is  the  phase  shift  in  the  unknown  network  at  frequency  f^.  The 
Helav  in  the  network  is,  from  (3) 

Substituting  (6)  and  (7)  in  (8)  yields  ^ 

The  first  term  in  T  is  a  constant  of  the  set-up  and  can  be  dropped  when  the 
delay  distortion  only  is  desired.  The  second  term  is  small  and  can  often 
be  neglected.  The  third  term  gives  the  major  part  of  the  difference  between 
the  delay  of  the  reference  path  and  the  delay  of  the  network. 

It  has  been  found  that  the  slider  position  can  be  easily  reset  to  dz  0.05 
centimeters  for  each  frequency.  This  would  mean  a  maximum  error  of 
=b  0.1  centimeter  for  the  difference  of  two  readings  which  corresponds  to 
an  error  in  T  of  about  ±0.4  X  10~^  seconds.  However,  this  reset  accuracy 
will  not  be  realized  in  overall  accuracy  unless  a  number  of  precautions  are 
observed  in  setting  up  the  circuit  of  Fig.  5.  In  order  to  avoid  stray  coupling 
the  two  branches  of  the  system  must  be  carefully  shielded  from  each  other. 
At  least  60  db  net  attenuation  must  be  provided  between  the  detectors  via 
the  path  through  the  balancing  line,  phase  shifter  and  unknown  network, 
and  40  db  attenuation  in  the  path  via  the  BO  supply  lines.  All  attenuators, 
plugs,  etc.,  must  have  voltage  standing  wave  ratios  of  less  than  about 
1.015  and  the  detectors  and  amphfiers  in  each  branch  must  have  identical 
phase  shifts  over  the  range  of  variation  of  the  IF  due  to  imperfect  tracking 
of  the  oscillators. 

Delay  Measuring  Circuit 

The  circuit  of  Fig.  5  is  basically  a  phase  measuring  circuit.  It  can  be 
rearranged  as  shown  in  Fig.  8  to  yield  a  circuit  that  will  read  delay  directly 
from  a  single  setting  of  the  slider.  In  Fig.  8  the  signals  from  the  two 
oscillators  are  both  sent  through  the  circuit  to  be  measured,  and  both  are 
sent  through  the  reference  branch.  Any  delay  in  either  path  will  alter  the 
relative  phases  of  the  two  signals  in  that  path  and  this  change  in  relative 
phase  shift  will  be  passed  on  to  the  beat  note  formed  in  the  detectors.    If 


256 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


the  delays  in  the  two  paths  are  different  a  relative  phase  shift  proportional 
to  the  difference  will  appear  in  the  two  beat  notes.  This  phase  change  can 
be  measured  with  a  phase  shifter  in  the  beat  note  circuit  or  with  a  phase 
shifter  which  varies  the  relative  phase  of  the  two  signals  fed  to  one  branch 


ATTENUATORS 


MEASURING    BRANCH 


OSCIL- 
LATORS 


fj 


f 


NETWORK 

TO  BE 
MEASURED 


DETECTOR 


AMPLIFIER 


PHONES 


1-MC 
FREQUENCY 
STANDARD 


CATHODE- RAY 
OSCILLOSCOPE 


ATTENUATORS 


DELAY 

BALANCING 

LINE 


DETECTOR 


PHASE 
SHIFTER 


AMPLIFIER 


REFERENCE  BRANCH 

Fig.  8 — Schematic  circuit  for  the  precise  measurement  of  delay  in  the  intermediate 
frequency  range. 


DETECTOR 


CATHODE-RAY 
OSCILLOSCOPE 


DETECTOR 


Fig.  9 — Simplified  circuit  electrically  equivalent  to  the  circuit  of  Fig.  8 

as  compared  with  the  relative  phase  of  the  two  signals  fed  to  the  other 
branch.  Figure  8  shows  how  the  coaxial  slider  can  be  used  for  the  latter 
type  of  measurement. 

The  simplified  diagram  of  Fig.  9  will  be  used  to  show  how  the  delay  of  the 
unknown  network  can  be  calculated  in  terms  of  this  circuit.  It  will  be 
assumed  that  the  electrical  lengths  of  the  paths  AF  and  BF  are  equal  so 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELAY  DISTORTION  257 

that  this  length  can  be  regarded  as  part  of  the  balancing  line  I.    Then  at 
point  E  we  have 

2irf\tc 


<i>E    —    4>A     —    4>AB    =    <i>A 


<f>E     —    <t>B     —    <f>BE    —    <t>B     — 


V 

27r/2  tc 


The  primes  indicate  phase  shifts  at  frequency  /2.    The  phase  0''^  of  the 
beat  note,  A/  =  /2  —  /i,  at  E  is 

4>E    =  <f>E  —  <f>E  =  (i>B  —  <f>A  —  A/  (10) 

V 

Similarly,  at  point  D 

<l>o  =  4>'b-4>a  -  ^^  +  iThia  -x)  -  (0'  -  ^)  (11) 

K  X  is  adjusted  so  that  the  A/'s  in  the  two  branches  are  in  phase  at  the 
oscilloscope  then 

0"^  =    0%  _  a  (12) 

where  a  is  the  difference  in  the  phase  shifts  in  the  two  beat  note  circuits. 
Substituting  (10)  and  (11)  in  (12)  and  solving  for  (/3'  -  /3)  yields 


(0'  -0)=  ?I^^  -  M/  -/:(2.  -  a)  +g] 


(13) 


The  delay  in  the  network  is 

lirAf 


T  = 


_  1  Vtc  ac  i2x  -  a)  _     ~| 

-717+2^/     -^^^-aT"      ""J 


(14) 


The  first  two  terms  in  (14)  are  independent  of  x  and/i  and  therefore  are 
of  interest  only  for  absolute  measurements.  Relative  measurements  may 
be  made  without  evaluating  these  constants.  The  last  two  terms  are 
functions  of  x  and  yield  the  change  in  delay  as  /  is  varied.  It  is  usually 
most  convenient  to  adjust  a  and  ^  so  that  the  average  delay  in  the  meas- 
uring branch  is  given  by  (14)  with 

(2x  -  a)  =  0  (15) 

In  general  this  will  minimize  the  variation  of  the  slider  and  make  the  delay 
distortion  in   the  measuring  branch   roughly  proportional   to   the   slider 


258  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

movement.  This  is  helpful  in  judging  the  effect  of  adjustments  of  the 
unknown  network.  The  condition  (15)  corresponds  to  the  optimum 
condition  for  the  circuit  of  Fig.  5  which  requires  that  the  average  delays  of 
the  two  branches  be  equal.  In  the  circuit  of  Fig.  8,  the  condition  (15)  can 
be  reaHzed  by  varying  either  I  or  a.  If  a  is  made  zero  and  (15)  is  fulfilled 
by  adjusting  t,  errors  due  to  variations  in  A/  are  minimized.  However,  if 
A/  is  held  sufficiently  constant,  the  balancing  line  I  can  be  omitted  entkely 
and  a  360°  variable  phase  shifter  introduced  in  the  beat  note  circuit  of  one 
branch  to  vary  a. 

The  measuring  interval  A/  is  determined  by  the  difference  in  the  two 
signal  oscillators.  Since  A/  has  an  important  influence  on  the  measurement, 
oscillator  tracking  cannot  be  relied  upon  to  maintain  A/  with  sufficient 
accuracy.  A  one-megacycle  crystal  frequency  checker  has  therefore  been 
included  in  the  equipment  as  shown  in  Fig.  8.  A  sample  of  the  signal  from 
one  of  the  amplifiers  is  compared  with  the  crystal  oscillator  and  a  trimmer 
on  one  of  the  oscillators  adjusted  for  zero  beat  before  measuring  each 
point.  When  T  is  so  large  that  a  balancing  fine  is  not  practicable,  as  in 
the  case  of  loop  circuits  including  radio  paths  or  long  transmission  fines, 
A/  must  be  held  constant  to  about  1  part  in  10^.  This  has  been  accom- 
pfished  in  a  modification  of  this  equipment  built  by  Messrs.  W.  J.  Alber- 
sheim  and  J.  P.  Shafer  of  these  laboratories,  by  deriving  the  two  measuring 
frequencies  from  a  crystal  oscillator. 

In  order  to  obtain  the  absolute  value  of  T,  the  constants  I,  v,  and  a  must  be 
known.  The  value  of  ^may  be  found  from  the  physical  length  of  the  line;  a 
can  be  measured  by  measuring  the  movement  of  the  slider  required  to  rebal- 
ance the  circuit  when  the  connections  to  the  two  detectors  are  reversed.  The 
absolute  delay  is  particularly  sensitive  with  respect  to  the  difference  be- 
tween 2x  and  a.  If  a  is  measured  as  accurately  as  possible,  then  the  exact 
setting  of  the  sUder  corresponding  to  condition  (15)  can  be  found  by  re- 
versing the  connections  of  the  slider  at  points  A  and  B  in  Fig.  9.  In  this 
way  a  reference  value  of  x  may  be  found  which  will  yield  accurate  results 
in  spite  of  a  small  error  in  the  value  of  a. 

Successful  operation  of  this  circuit  depends  on  low  standing  waves 
throughout  and  upon  sufficient  padding  for  satisfactory  isolation  of  the 
oscillators.  It  will  be  noted  that  in  the  analysis  it  was  assumed  that  /i 
reached  the  slider  via  the  path  AC,  Fig.  9.  There  must  be  an  attenuation 
for/i  in  the  path  AFBC  sufficient  to  render  the  signal  traversing  this  path 
negligible.  Similar  unwanted  paths  exist  for  /2  from  B  to  C  and  also  for 
/i  and  /2  to  point  F.  Attenuation  inserted  as  shown  in  Fig.  8  can  be  ar- 
ranged to  make  these  unwanted  signals  negligible. 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELA  V  DISTORTION 


259 


Radio  Frequency  Measurements 

The  frequency  range  of  a  particular  measuring  equipment  using  the 
circuits  of  Fig.  5  or  Fig.  8  is  determined  only  by  the  range  of  the  oscillators 
and  the  range  over  which  the  plugs  and  jacks  and  attenuators  operate 
with  sufficiently  low  reflection  coefficients.  While  this  range  is  greater 
than  the  IF  range  encountered  in  microwave  repeaters,  it  does  not  include 
the  actual  microwave  frequencies.  However,  it  has  been  found  that 
microwave  components  can  be  measured  satisfactorily  by  using  the  circuit 
shown  in  Fig.  10.     In  this  circuit  the  measuring  equipment  is  operated  at 


d 


R-F 
OSCILLATOR 


CONVERTER 


FILTER 


NETWORK 

TO  BE 
MEASURED 


CONVERTER 


DETECTOR 


OSCIL- 
LATORS 


fr 


J 


ATTENUATORS 


> 


J 


AMPLIFIER 


CATHODE -RAY 
OSCILLOSCOPE 


SLOTTED 
COAXIAL 


AMPLIFIER 


DETECTOR 


PHASE 
SHIFTER 


Fig.  10 — Method  of  using  the  intermediate  frequency  measuring  circuit  of  Fig.  8  for 
the  measurement  of  radio  frequency  networks. 

IF,  and  the  reference  branch  is  unaltered.  The  measuring  branch  signal 
is  fed  first  to  a  converter  where  it  is  beat  up  to  the  desired  microwave 
frequency.  The  converter  is  followed  by  a  filter  which  eliminates  the 
beating  oscillator  frequency  and  one  of  the  beat  frequencies.  The  filter 
output  is  then  applied  to  the  microwave  component  under  test.  The 
output  of  this  is  fed  to  another  converter  and  converted  back  to  IF  by 
beating  with  the  same  oscillator  that  was  used  in  the  first  converter.  This 
process  removes  any  variations  in  phase  due  to  variations  in  the  beating 
oscillator  if  the  connections  from  the  beating  oscillator  to  each  converter 
are  of  equal  electrical  length. 

Since  considerable  extra  equipment  is  included  in  the  measuring  branch 
in  Fig.  10,  it  will  usually  be  necessary  to  make  a  calibration  run  with  the 


260 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


device  to  be  measured  removed  in  order  to  eliminate  any  possible  delay- 
distortion  in   the  converters  and  filter.     Figure   10  uses  the  measuring 


and  8 


Fig.  11 — Photograph  of  apparatus  used  in  the  measuring  circuits  shown  in  Figs.  5 


circuit  of  Fig.  8  rather  than  that  of  Fig.  5  because  it  was  found  that  small 
variations  in  the  transit  time  in  microwave  amplifiers  cause  small  variations 
in  the  phase  shift  which  are  the  same  at  all  frequencies  in  the  band.    These 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELAY  DISTORTION 


i61 


variations  cause  changes  in  the  relative  phase  of  the  two  successive  meas- 
urements required  when  using  the  circuit  of  Fig.  5  which  do  not  represent 
changes  in  the  delay.  In  effect  the  circuit  of  Fig.  8  makes  the  two  phase 
measurements  simultaneously,  and  thus  eliminates  effects  due  to  variations 
of  phase  with  time. 


X  10' 


45 


40 
10 
Q 

Z 
O  35 


Q  25 


<20 


15 


10 


/ 

A 

/ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

f 

■^ 

1 

\ 

1 

' 

\ 

\ 

I 

\ 

/ 

1 

\ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

h.O 

/ 

f 

H 

O- 

^9^ 

/ 

52 


58  60  62  64  66  68  70  72 

FREQUENCY   IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


78 


Fig.  12 — Measured  curve  of  the  relative  delay  of  an  intermediate  frequency  amplifier 

Results 
Figure  11  shows  a  photograph  of  the  delay  measuring  equipment  which 
has  been  described.  With  the  aid  of  patch  cords  and  switches  that  have 
been  included  in  the  equipment  this  apparatus  can  be  set  up  according  to 
either  Fig.  5  or  Fig.  8.  The  ganged  oscillators  are  on  the  panel  above  the 
oscilloscope  box.  The  box  contains  the  dividing  attenuators,  detectors, 
amplifiers  and  oscilloscope.  A  separate  power  supply  is  required  for  the 
oscillators  and  the  output  stages  of  the  amplifiers.  A  number  of  different 
lengths  of  flexible  coaxial  cable  are  mounted  on  the  panel  above  the  oscil- 
lators and  arranged  so  that  various  lengths  of  balancing  line  can  be  con- 
veniently obtained  by  patching.  The  coaxial  phase  changer  can  be  seen 
on  the  shelf  in  front  of  the  oscilloscope. 


262 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Figure  12  shows  the  measured  relative  delay  of  a  typical  intermediate 
frequency  amplifier.  This  amphfier  has  a  substantially  flat  amplitude 
response  over  a  band  of  about  12  mc  centered  on  65  mc.  The  delay  dis- 
tortion over  the  10  megacycle  band  from  60  to  70  mc  is  about  10  X  10~^ 


30 


if)   OC 

Z 

o 
o 
5^20 


10-9 


^ 

^ 

■0-T> 

N 

/ 

fS 

\ 

/ 

/i 

\ 

/ 

^ 

^ 

\ 

y 

P 

52   54 


56 


58    60    62    64    66    68    70    72 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


74 


76 


78 


Fig.  13 — Measured  relative  delay  of  an  experimental  delay  equalizer 


35 


30 

o 
o 

Z20 


> 
5  10 


X  10' 


<^ 

^ 

V 

\ 

V) 

/ 

■% 

\ 

I 

J 

\ 

I 

^ 

J3 

O      ^ 

J. 

7 

'■'— LT 

■^Sx 

52 


56 


58  60         62  64         66  68  70  72 

FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER   SECOND 


74 


76 


78 


Fig.  14— Measured  relative  delay  of  the  amplifier  of  Fig.  12  plus  an  equalizer 

seconds.  Figure  13  shows  the  measured  relative  delay  of  a  bridged  T  phase 
equalizer  which  can  be  used  to  compensate  for  the  distortion  in  the  amplifier. 
Figure  14  shows  the  measured  relative  delay  for  the  amplifier  of  Fig.  12 
and  an  equalizer  measured  together.  The  equalizer  has  reduced  the  delay 
distortion  over  the  10  mc  band  from  about  10-«  to  10"^  seconds.    These 


MEASUREMENT  OF  DELA  Y  DISTORTION 


263 


measurements  were  made  with  an  early  model  of  the  measuring  equipment. 
Smoother  curves  are  obtained  with  the  apparatus  shown  in  Fig.  11. 

In  Fig.  15  the  top  row  shows  the  distortion  of  a  square  top  pulse  by  the 
ampUfier  of  Fig.  12  for  1,  10,  and  30  trips  through  the  amplifier  without  the 
equalizer.  The  lower  row  shows  a  similar  set  of  pictures  of  the  pulse  when 
the  distortion  was  reduced  by  a  phase  equalizer  as  shown  in  Fig.  14.  The 
improvement  due  to  the  eUmination  of  phase  distortion  is  clearly  illustrated. 
These  pictures  were  obtained  by  the  circulated  pulse^  technique  which 


1  TIME 


10  TIMES 


30  TIMES 


AMPLIFIER    ALONE 


AMPLIFIER    WITH    EQUALIZER 

Fig.  15 — Oscillograms  showing  the  improvement  in  the  square  wave  response  of  the 
amplifier  of  Fig.  12  obtained  by  delay  equalization.  The  numbers  above  the  traces  indi- 
cate the  number  of  times  the  test  pulse  has  passed  through  the  amplifier  and  equalizer. 

permits  the  observation  of  a  pulse  after  it  has  passed  a  number  of  times 
through  the  same  amplifier. 


Conclusions 

Two  measuring  circuits  have  been  described  which  are  suitable  for 
measuring  the  small  variations  in  relative  transmission  time  which  are 
present  in  wide  band  microwave  repeaters.  K  sufficient  care  is  exercised 
in  setting  up  these  circuits  an  accuracy  of  better  than  dblO""^  seconds  can 
be  realized  in  relative  delay  measurements.  The  circuit  of  Fig.  5  measures 
the  relative  phase  shift  as  a  function  of  frequency.  It  has  the  advantage 
of  requiring  less  signal  power  and  fewer  important  parameters  for  absolute 


^Testing  Repeaters  with  Recirculated  Pulses,  A.  C.  Beck  and  D.  H.  Ring. 
I.R.E.  Nov.  1947, 1,226-1,230. 


Proc. 


264  BELL  SYSTEM  TECBNICAL  JOURNAL 

delay  measurements.  The  circuit  of  Fig.  8  measures  delay  directly  with  a 
single  measurement  and  has  the  advantage  of  ignoring  uniform  phase  vari- 
ations with  time.  It  is  useful  for  making  relative  measurements  on  circuits 
with  long  constant  delay  times.  A  significant  improvement  in  the  square 
wave  response  of  carrier  amplifiers  has  been  obtained  by  applying  delay 
equalizers  based  on  measurements  made  with  this  equipment. 


Frequency  Shift  Telegraphy — Radio  and  Wire  Applications* 

By  J.  R.  DAVEY  and  A.  L.  MATTE 

Frequency  shift  telegraphy  is  described  and  compared  with  amplitude  modula- 
tion telegraphy  under  various  conditions  found  in  radio  and  wire  transmission. 
Experimental  data  are  given  to  demonstrate  the  influence  of  various  design  fac- 
tors on  the  over-all  performance  under  these  conditions.  It  is  shown  that  the 
most  outstanding  characteristic  of  the  frequency  shift  method  is  its  ability  to 
accept  large  and  rapid  changes  in  signal  amplitude.  Frequency  shift  telegraphy 
thus  proves  to  be  of  great  advantage  for  use  in  the  H.F.  radio  range.  Frequency 
shift  telegraphy  also  shows  an  advantage  over  amplitude  modulation  telegraphy 
with  respect  to  noise.  For  applications  where  the  level  variations  are  small  or 
slow  the  advantage  of  the  frequency  shift  method  over  amplitude  modulation 
is  relatively  small. 

Introduction 

TOURING  World  War  II,  single-channel  and  multichannel  frequency- 
-*-^  shift  radio  telegraph  systems  proved  of  the  utmost  importance  in  pro- 
viding the  Allied  Powers  v^ith  a  v^orld-wide  automatic  printing  telegraph 
network  for  handling  with  precision,  secrecy  and  dispatch  the  unprecedented 
volume  of  traffic  engendered  by  a  war  of  global  extent.  It  is  expected  that 
the  next  few  years  will  witness  a  greatly  expanded  application  of  this 
method  of  operation  by  commercial  telegraph  companies  and  others  in- 
terested in  long  distance  telegraphy. 

Frequency  Shift  carrier  telegraphy  (FS)  may  be  applied  to  any  carrier 
telegraph  circuit,  but,  as  will  appear  below,  it  provides  particularly  striking 
advantages  in  H.F.  radio  transmission.  For  some  other  radio  frequency 
ranges  and  for  wire  line  operation  the  conditions  are  such  as  to  limit  the 
advantages  of  the  FS  method.  The  main  advantages  of  the  FS  over  the  AM 
method  are  a  greater  ability  to  accept  rapid  level  changes,  which  results  in 
better  stabihty  and  lower  distortion,  and  an  improvement  in  signal-to-noise 
ratio,  which  permits  a  reduction  in  carrier  amplitude.  It  is  therefore  of 
particular  importance  where  automatic  printing  is  desired  over  H.F.  radio 
circuits.  When  it  is  necessary  to  transmit  through  very  high  noise  levels, 
low  speed  AM  signaling  with  aural  reception  of  an  audio  beat  note  remains 
the  superior  method. 

FS  is  a  form  of  frequency  modulation  in  which  signaling  is  accomplished 
by  shifting  a  constant  amplitude  carrier  between  two  frequencies  represent- 
ing respectively  the  marking  and  spacing  conditions  of  the  telegraph  code. 
Frequency  variations  in  FS  telegraphy  correspond  to  amphtude  variations  in 

♦PubUohed  in  A. I. E.E.  Transactions,  Vol.  66,  p.  479,  1947. 

265 


266  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

AM  telegraphy  (CW) ;  thus  the  signal  transitions  in  FS  are  represented  by 
frequency-time  transients,  while  in  the  AM  case  they  are  amplitude- time 
transients.  Since  AM  telegraph  is  the  more  common  system,  a  discussion  of 
the  FS  method  involves  numerous  comparisons  between  the  two  systems. 
The  merits  of  a  telegraph  system  must  be  judged  on  its  ability  to  combat 
the  various  adverse  conditions  encountered  in  the  transmission  medium  and 
in  the  terminal  apparatus.  In  general  these  adverse  conditions  involve 
variations  in  amplitude,  frequency,  and  phase  of  the  signals  and  the  presence 
of  extraneous  signals  and  noise. 

In  the  course  of  the  development  of  a  number  of  FS  radio  teletypewriter 
systems,  a  large  amount  of  information  concerning  the  characteristics  and 
design  parameters  of  such  equipment  has  been  obtained.  It  is  the  purpose 
of  this  paper  to  abstract  therefrom  selected  data  which  will  furnish  a  step- 
by-step  comparison  of  the  FS  and  AM  methods.  Typical  terminal  arrange- 
ments are  described  and  the  effects  of  varying  certain  design  factors  are 
illustrated  by  experimental  data.  Although  the  material  presented  applies 
largely  to  H.F.  radio  telegraph,  much  of  it  is  of  a  general  nature  and  with 
proper  interpretation  apphes  to  other  frequency  ranges  and  transmission 
mediums  and  to  cases  in  which  the  telegraph  modulated  carrier  may  be  a 
sub-carrier  or  one  of  several  sub-carriers. 

General  Discussion 

Sideband  Energy  Distribution 

The  difference  between  FS  and  AM  signals  as  regards  distribution  of  side- 
band amplitudes  is  illustrated  by  the  following  two  equations  for  a  carrier 
of  frequency  (m/Itt  modulated  with  unbiased  square  wave  dots  of  fre- 
quence p/lir. 
For  AM  (On-off)  keyed  carrier  of  unity  ampUtude^: — 

e  =  0.5  cos  Oil  -\-  -  [cos  (w  -j-  p)t  -j-  cos  (co  —  p)/] 

TT 

—  — -  |cos  (oj  -\-  d>p)t  -\-  COS  (co  —  ^p)t\ 

+  —  [cos  (oj  +  Sp)t  -f  COS  (o)  -  Sp)t].  .  .etc.      (Ij 
57r 

For  FS  keyed  carrier  of  unity  amplitude^: — 


W2 

1 

V 

W2 

1 

V- 

m^  -  32 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  267 

COS  (  ^  j  (cos  (oj  —  p)t  —  cos  (w  +  p)t) 
sin  f  — ^  j  (cos  (co  —  2p)t  +  cos  (co  +  2p)/) 
cos  (  — ^  j  (cos  (co  —  3p)t  —  cos  (co  +  3p)i) 


] 


(2) 


u  •    ^u    J     •  ^-  ^-  frequency  shift 

where  w  is  the  deviation  ratio  = ^ -^ 

2  X  signaling  speed 


Typical  sideband  amplitudes  calculated  from  these  formulas  are  shown 
in  graphical  form  in  Fig.  1.  In  the  case  of  FS  keying,  the  relative  ampli- 
tudes of  the  sidebands  vary  considerably  as  the  amount  of  frequency  shift 
is  changed.  For  miscellaneous  signals  these  Une  spectra  do  not  exist  but 
they  do  indicate  the  general  distribution  of  energy  over  the  band  for  a  given 
signaling  speed. 

Methods  of  Modulating  the  Carrier 

In  AM  telegraphy  the  carrier  is  usually  modulated  by  simply  interrupting 
it  for  the  spacing  condition.  This  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  **on-off" 
keying.  For  low  power  and  low  frequencies  the  carrier  may  be  keyed  di- 
rectly by  electrical  contacts.  A  more  universally  appUcable  method  is  to 
use  vacuum  tubes  or  other  nonlinear  elements  to  effectively  interrupt  the 
carrier.  In  some  cases  it  is  practical  to  start  and  stop  an  oscillator  source 
of  carrier. 

The  usual  radio  telegraph  transmitter  consists  of  an  oscillator  followed  by 
a  number  of  cascaded  stages  of  amplification  and  frequency  multiplication 
arranged  to  reach  the  desired  output  frequency  and  power.  For  on-off 
keying  the  carrier  is  usually  interrupted  by  suitably  varying  the  plate  or 
grid  voltage  of  one  or  more  of  the  stages. 

There  are  two  general  methods  of  obtaining  frequency  modulation:  (a) 
The  frequency  of  an  oscillator  may  be  modulated  directly  by  suitably  vary- 
ing the  frequency-determining  circuit,  (b)  the  output  of  a  constant-frequency 
oscillator  may  be  shifted  in  phase  at  such  rates  of  change  as  to  produce  indi- 
rectly the  desired  frequency  variations.  In  the  latter  case  the  marking  and 
spacing  intervals  of  an  FS  signal  would  be  formed  by  periods  of  constant 
rate  of  phase  change  versus  time.  Square  wave  reversals  would  therefore 
require  a  triangular  shaped  wave  of  phase  versus  time.  Since  the  transmis- 
sion of  long  periods  of  steady  mark  or  space  would  therefore  involve  huge 


268 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


phase  swings,  the  modulator  would  have  to  be  able  to  produce  a  steady  phase 
rate  of  charge.  A  phase  modulator  capable  of  performing  in  this  way  while 
not  producing  undesirable  phase  discontinuities  at  the  signal  transitions 
becomes  rather  impractical.  For  this  reason  FS  telegraphy  usually  utilizes 
the  direct  frequency  modulation  method.     This  may  conveniently  be  accom- 


1.0 
0.5 

(a) 

SQUARE-WAVE   AMPLITUDE  MODULATION 

- 

1 

0 

.  .1     1     1     1     1     1     1     1 

.    ,    ,    ,    1 

.1,11.,. 

1       1       1     ,_i 

J4     t3    12 


10     9     8      7     6     5 


4      3      2      1      C      1       2      3     4 

ORDER   OF   SIDEBAND 


6     7      8      9     10     11     12    13   14 


(b)     SQUARE-WAVE  FREQUENCY   MODULATION 
SPACE  -*". 1 ,-*— MARK 


DEVIATION    RATIO,  m  =1 


1 SPACE  — *► 

-*-MARK 1 

m  =  2 

765432      1       CI      23456789     10     11     12    13    14 
SPACE  — *-  1 1 ,-*— MARK- 


11      9      7      5      3      I  C  1 
1.0  I — SPACE-*" 


3     5 


■  ■llilil-i.lilill-.    . 


7  9  1' 
-  MARK- 
m  =  4.7 


5     13     11 

9 

753      1C1       3579 

11     13    15 

llADiy 

m  =  20 

1   1   1 

1 

1    I    111J.J_J_L 

i  1  i  1  111  1.1  1 

III 

12    10     8     6     4      2      C     2     4      6     8     10    12    30  20  10 

ORDER  OF  SIDEBAND 


Fig.  1. — Amplitude  of  sideband  components  for  (a)  square-wave  amplitude  modulation 
(b)  square- wave  frequency  modulation, 

plished  by  the  use  of  a  reactance  modulator  which,  by  injecting  a  reactive 
component  of  current  into  the  tuned  circuit  of  the  oscillator,  varies  the 
resonant  frequency  thereof.  Such  a  modulator  may  be  made  linear  so  that  a 
frequency  shift  proportional  to  the  input  voltage  to  the  reactance  modulator 
is  obtained. 

To  apply  FS  telegraph  signals  to  a  radio  transmitter  the  regular  exciter 
oscillator  is  either  replaced  or  modified  by  an  arrangement  providing  a 
source  of  R.F.  excitation  that  can  be  shifted  in  frequency  in  accordance 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  269 

with  the  telegraph  signal.     All  the  stages  are  operated  with  full  R.F.  excita- 
tion continuously  to  produce  a  constant  amplitude  carrier. 

As  a  matter  of  expediency  frequency  shift  keying  has  sometimes  been 
provided  by  switching  between  two  independent  sources  of  carrier  current 
separated  in  frequency  by  the  desired  shift.  In  such  a  case  the  frequency 
transitions  involve  sudden  phase  discontinuities  of  random  values.  This 
results  in  the  instantaneous  frequency  swinging  considerably  outside  the 
steady-state  mark  and  space  frequencies.  If  the  band  is  wide,  such 
as  is  the  case  in  a  radio  transmitter,  there  results  a  very  broad  sideband 
radiation  capable  of  causing  severe  interference  to  adjacent  channels.  If 
the  band  is  narrow,  as  might  be  the  case  where  sending  filters  are 
employed,  the  interference  is  eliminated  but  the  amplitude  transients  result- 
ing from  the  sudden  phase  shifts  are  capable  of  producing  considerable 
distortion. 

Restriction  of  Transmitted  Band 

As  seen  above,  square-wave  modulation  results  in  a  wide  spread  of  side- 
band components  which  are  of  sufficient  ampHtude  to  interfere  seriously 
with  adjacent  channels  unless  greatly  attenuated.  The  transmitted  band 
may  be  restricted  either  by  the  use  of  a  band-pass  filter  centered  about  the 
carrier  frequency  or  by  a  low-pass  filter  to  suitably  shape  the  modulating 
wave  form.  Band-pass  filters  are  usually  used  if  the  power  level  is  low  and 
the  frequency  low  enough  to  permit  suitable  filter  construction.  For  multi- 
channel systems  the  use  of  band-pass  filters  also  permits  efficient  parallehng 
of  the  transmitting  channels.  For  radio  transmitters  with  a  transmitted 
power  measured  in  kilowatts,  and  with  a  frequency  of  several  megacycles 
which  is  frequently  changed  to  suit  best  the  prevailing  conditions,  shaping 
of  the  modulating  wave  is  the  more  practical  method  of  restricting  the  trans- 
mitted band. 

Insufficient  attention  has  been  given  in  the  past  to  the  envelope  shape  of 
the  signals  from  on-off  keyed  radio  transmitters.  With  the  ever  increasing 
crowding  of  frequency  assignments  it  becomes  more  and  more  important  to 
restrict  the  emission  of  unnecessary  sidebands  arising  from  keying.  The 
envelope  shape  in  on-off  keying  may  be  controlled  by  properly  shaping  the 
modulating  grid  or  plate  voltage  wave.  It  is  important  that  the  stages 
following  the  keyed  stage  or  stages  be  nearly  linear,  otherwise  the  wave 
shaping  will  be  largely  destroyed.  In  the  case  of  frequency  shift  keying, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  wave  shaping  is  preserved  after  passage  through  class 
C  amplifier  or  multiplier  stages,  and  these  may  be  operated  for  maximum 
efficiency.  The  greater  ease  of  producing  and  maintaining  the  desired  wave 
shaping,  so  necessary  for  close  frequency  spacing  of  channels,  is  one  of  the 
outstanding  advantages  of  frequency  shift  keying. 


270 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Apparatus 
Typical  FS  Exciter  for  Radio  Telegraph 

A  typical  FS  exciter  arrangement  such  as  is  often  used  with  radio  telegraph 
transmitters  is  shown  in  Fig.  2.  A  d-c.  telegraph  wave,  after  suitable  shap- 
ing, is  caused  to  frequency-modulate  an  intermediate  frequency  of  200  kc. 
which,  in  turn,  amplitude-modulates  a  radio  frequency  from  a  crystal- 
controlled  oscillator.  The  upper  sideband  of  this  latter  modulation  is  an 
FS  signal  and  is  selected  and  amplified  sufficiently  to  drive  the  first  amplifier 
or  multiplier  stage  of  the  transmitter.  The  200-kc.  oscillator  is  frequency- 
modulated  by  a  reactance  modulator  which,  by  feeding  a  leading  or  lagging 


TRANSMITTING 
ANTENNA 


FS    EXCITER 


UJ 


CRYSTAL 
OSCILLATOR 


BALANCED 
MODULATOR 


AMPLIFIER 


200-KC 
FREOUENCY- 
MODULATED 
OSCILLATOR 


D-C  TELEGRAPH 
/SIGNAL 


<^±90*= 


REACTIVE 
CURRENT 
AMPLIFIER 


BALANCED 
REACTANCE 
MODULATOR 


KEYING 
CIRCUIT 


WAVE- 
SHAPING 
CIRCUIT 


JG   -—4— 


_J 


PHASE- 
MODULATION 
OSCILLATOR 


FREQUENCY 
MULTIPLIERS 
AND  POWER 

AMPLIFIER 


Fig.  2. — ^Block  diagram  of  a  typical  FS  transmitter. 

quadrature  component  of  current  into  the  oscillator  tuned  circuit,  decreases 
or  increases  the  frequency.  By  operating  the  reactance  modulator  within 
its  linear  range  the  frequency  shift  wave  form  is  made  the  same  as  the  d-c. 
telegraph  wave  form  into  the  modulator.  A  d-c.  amplifier  stage,  designated 
"keying  circuit",  is  provided  to  furnish  a  modulating  wave  effectively  iso- 
lated from  amplitude  and  wave  front  variations  of  the  incoming  telegraph 
signals.  The  d-c.  telegraph  signals  may  be  polar  or  neutral  and  are  often 
obtained  from  a  tone  demodulator  unit  which  allows  keying  from  a  remote 
point  by  V.F.  telegraph.  The  amount  of  frequency  shift  is  adjusted  by  an 
amplitude  control  in  the  quadrature  feed-back  path  to  the  200  kc.  oscillator. 
The  shift  may  thus  be  varied  continuously,  or  in  definite  steps  to  allow  for 
subsequent  frequency  multiplications,  by  suitable  attenuation  controls. 
Controlling  the  shift  in  this  manner  keeps  the  instabilities  of  the  reactance 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


271 


modulator  a  constant  percentage  of  the  frequency  shift,  which  would  not 
be  the  case  if  the  shift  were  adjusted  by  varying  the  amplitude  of  the  modu- 
lating wave.  The  use  of  a  balanced  instead  of  an  unbalanced  reactance 
modulator  minimizes  variation  of  the  mean  frequency  and  also  allows  the 
shift  to  be  varied  without  affecting  the  mean  frequency. 

The  frequency-shift  signal  transitions  are  wave-shaped,  to  restrict  side- 
band radiation,  by  means  of  a  low-pass  filter  in  the  d-c.  telegraph  signal  path 
to  the  reactance  modulator.  The  low-pass  filtering  is  made  adjustable  to 
accommodate  a  range  of  signaling  speeds.     Frequency-versus-time  wave 


PxPd 


Q  + 


® 


240 


23 -CYCLE 
DOTS  WITH 
200  CYCLE 
SUPERIMPO- 
SED PHASE 
MODULATION 


Fig.  3. — Frequency  shift  keyer  output  wave  forms,  (a)  Low-pass  filtering  adjusted 
to  produce  similar  wave  shapes  at  dotting  speeds  of  60, 100,  200,  and  240  cycles,  (b)  200 
cycle  phase  modulation  superimposed  on  a  23  dots  per  second  signal. 


forms  from  an  exciter  of  the  type  described  are  shown  for  several  keying 
speeds  in  Fig.  3a.  The  effect  of  wave  shaping  on  the  sideband  components 
in  the  R.F.  output  of  such  an  exciter  is  shown  in  Fig.  4. 

Phase  modulation  may  readily  be  added  to  the  signal  in  this  type  of  exciter 
by  superimposing  the  desired  sine  wave  modulating  frequency  on  the  tele- 
graph signal  wave  input  to  the  reactance  modulator  as  indicated  in  Fig.  2. 
Figure  3b  shows  the  keyer  output  wave  form  with  superimposed  phase 
modulation.     The  use  of  this  tjrpe  of  phase  modulation  is  considered  later. 

To  obtain  optimum  results  in  FS  radio  telegraph  transmission  and  to 
allow  close  spacing  of  channels,  a  high  degree  of  frequency  stability  is  neces- 
sary. An  over-all  frequency  stabiHty  of  it  100  cycles  is  desirable  in  a  system 
using  a  value  of  frequency  shift  between  500  and  1000  cycles.    A  frequency 


272 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


shift  exciter  of  the  type  described  above,  with  the  crystal  oscillator  and 
200  kc.  FS  oscillator  located  in  a  temperature-controlled  oven,  usually  has 
a  frequency  stability  such  that  the  mean  R.F.  carrier  frequency  may  be 
held  to  within  ±50  cycles  up  to  frequencies  of  20  mc  over  ordinary  periods 
of  operation  on  any  qne  frequency.  One  of  the  advantages  of  this  type  of 
exciter  is  that  small  inaccuracies  in  crystal  frequencies  may  be  compensated 
for  by  adjusting  the  mean  frequency  of  the  200  kc.  oscillator. 


45 

1 

1 
1 

1 

A 
1 
MAXIMUM     / 
SHAPING     ' 

^40 

:    \ 

£      < 

^35 
< 

■  ~^-'-^ 

/    / 

/  V^N 
I  I  MINIMUM 

d25 
O 

\       A 

:    w 
-    \i  < 

1.0 

1  15 

i 

^10 

7  1     SHAPING 

N         // 

/r\   /r 

\\         A 

V    1 

5 

V 

V 

0 

1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1 

1   1  1   1   1   1  1  1   i 

4       2       0        2       4 

ORDER  OF  SIDEBAND 


Fig.  4. — EflFect  of  shaping  FS  transitions  on  amplitude  of  radiated  sidebands.  100 
dots  per  second  and  500  cycle  frequency  shift.  The  maximum  and  minimum  wave  shap- 
ing conditions  correspond  to  those  used  with  60  and  240  dots  per  second  respectively  in 
Fig.  3(a). 

Receiving  Terminal  Arrangements 

Typical  receiving  terminal  arrangements  are  shown  in  the  block  diagrams 
of  Fig.  5.  Up  to  point  "a"  in  the  arrangements  the  FS  and  AM  systems  are 
identical,  being  of  the  usual  H.F.  superheterodyne  type.  The  output  from 
the  second  frequency-conversion  stage  may  be  either  in  the  audio  range  or 
at  a  considerably  higher  frequency  such  as  50  kc.  Following  the  second 
converter  is  a  band-pass  filter  (shown  at  "b"  in  Fig.  5)  which  determines 
the  final  over-all  band  width  before  demodulation.  The  two  systems  differ 
only  in  the  method  of  demodulation.  The  AM  (on-off)  signals  are  amplified 
and  rectified  to  give  a  d-c.telegraph  signal.  The  FS  signals  are  amplitude 
limited  and  passed  through  a  frequency  discriminating  network  and  then 
rectified  to  give  a  d-c.telegraph  signal.  Beyond  this  point  the  two  systems 
are  again  identical.    The  d-c .  signals  pass  through  a  low-pass  filter  to  remove 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


273 


carrier  ripple  and  higher  frequency  noise  components  and  are  then  ampUtied 
to  a  suitable  level  to  operate  automatic  recording  or  printing  apparatus. 
The  d-c. signals  may  also  be  used  to  modulate  an  audio  frequency  so  as  to 
pass  the  signals  to  a  remote  point  by  multichannel  voice-frequency  carrier 
telegraph  methods. 


ANTENNA 


R-F 
AMPLIFIER 


FIRST 
FREQUENCY 
CONVERTER 


I-F 
AMPLIFIER 


SECOND 
FREQUENCY 
CONVERTER 


(b) 


E 


BAND- PASS 
FILTER 


LI  N  EAR 
AMPLIFIER 


3^ 

(a) 


RECTIFIER 


-»— 

HIGH 

- 

... 

oscillator! 

-•— 

SECOND 
CONVERSION 
OSCILLATOR 

1 

^ 

AMPLITUDE 
LI  MITER 

6 

1- 

1 

\h 

FREQUENCY 
DISCRIMIN- 
ATOR AND 
RECTIFIER 

a. 
<n 
u. 

LOW-PASS 
FILTER 


D-C 
AMPLIFIER 


n 


D< 


TONE 
KEYER 


TELEGRAPH 
SIGNALS 


V-F. 


Fig.  5. — ^Block  diagram  of  a  typical  receiving  arrangement  for  either  AM  or  FS  tele- 
graph signals. 


The  radio  receiver  portion  of  the  terminals  up  to  point  "a"  should  be 
designed  to  have  low  noise  and  good  selectivity.  Extreme  H.F.  oscillator 
stability  is  necessary  for  either  system  if  narrow  band  width  operation  is  to 
be  maintained  without  constant  attention.  An  over-all  frequency  stabiHty 
of  ±50  cycles  is  desirable  for  the  receiving  terminal  over  a  period  of  6  to 
8  hours.  Sufficient  selectivity  and  ampUfier  capacity  should  be  provided 
at  all  points  to  prevent  overloading  by  unwanted  signals  or  loss  of  automatic 


274  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

gain  control.     In  the  following  discussion  those  portions  of  the  terminals 
beyond  the  second  frequency  converter  will  be  given  major  attention. 

Experimental  Transmitting  and  Receiving  Arrangements 

For  the  laboratory  transmission  studies  described  in  the  following  sec- 
tions the  transmitter  and  receiver  were  located  nearby  and  connected  to- 
gether by  means  of  an  amplitude  modulator  and  associated  with  various 
sources  of  noise  designed  to  simulate  quantitatively  and  under  controlled 
conditions  the  variations  which  would  be  encountered  in  the  actual  medium. 

Throughout  the  tests  7.42  unit  start-stop  signals  were  used  unless  other- 
wise stated,  and  the  speed  was  60  words  per  minute  (23  dots  per  second). 
Their  peak  distortion  and  bias  were  measured  on  a  cathode-ray  tube  tele- 
graph distortion  measuring  set. 

An  exciter  of  the  type  shown  in  Fig.  2  was  used  as  a  source  of  signals. 
A  frequency  of  6.4  mc.  was  employed,  with  the  radio  receiver  connected  to 
the  exciter  output  through  an  amphtude  modulator.  This  modulator  was 
an  electronic  circuit  permitting  amphtude  modulation  of  a  frequency-shift 
signal  to  produce  unequal  mark  and  space  amphtudes.  This  modulator 
was  also  used  to  amphtude-modulate  a  single  frequency  for  the  AM  portions 
of  the  measurements. 

A  temperature-limited  diode  together  with  a  two-stage  tuned  ampUfier 
was  used  as  a  source  of  thermal  noise  centered  around  6.4  mc.  A  polar 
relay  driven  by  60-cycle  a-c  and  arranged  to  produce  sharp  polar  impulses 
from  the  discharge  of  small  capacitances  connected  to  its  contacts  was  used 
as  a  source  of  impulse  noise.  The  noise  level  was  adjusted  by  an  attenuator 
and  mixed  with  the  6.4  mc.  carrier  of  the  exciter.  A  minimum  amount  of 
wave  shaping  was  used,  so  that  the  modulation  may  be  considered  as  having 
been  essentially  square-wave. 

Receiving  Arrangements 

The  experimental  data  submitted  in  the  following  discussion  was  obtained 
from  reception  through  a  laboratory  setup  essentially  like  that  shown  in 
Fig.  5.  The  radio  receiver  proper  was  a  commercial  type  of  H.F.  super- 
heterodyne. The  output  of  the  second  frequency  converter  was  in  the  audio- 
frequency range,  which  enabled  the  use  of  various  band-pass  filters  at  "b" 
of  the  type  used  in  voice-frequency  telegraph  systems.  The  amplitude 
limiter  was  effective  over  an  imput  range  of  —60  dbm*  to  above  -f-20  dbm. 
The  pass-band  characteristics  of  the  radio  receiver  and  of  the  several  band- 
pass filters  used  in  position  "b"  are  shown  in  Figs.  6  and  7  respectively. 
Unless  otherwise  stated,  the  frequency  shift  signals  were  centered  about 

*  The  symbol  dbm  signifies  "db  referred  to  one  milliwatt". 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


275 


n^^ 

z 

NOMINAL  BAND 

< 

CD 

3300~             . 

iao 

-\ 

1 

5 

1 

2 

1 

°  15 

\ 

1 

u. 

/ 

I 

(/) 

/ 

m  10 

\ 

/ 

CD 

/ 

O 

/ 

LU 

/ 

Q 

z    ^ 

\ 

/ 

(O 

/ 

CO 

^ 

O    n 

1             1             1^^^ 

^     1             1             1 

-4-3-2-1  0  1  2  3         4 

FREQUENCY  IN   KILOCYCLES  PER   SECOND 

(FROM  MID-BAND) 

Fig.  6. — I.F.  selectivity  characteristic  of  radio  receiver. 


50 


40 


30 


20 


10  - 


NOMINAL 
BAND 

\         ^ 

\  \     H-'"'^  / 

\    \             /    UiO-     / 

\ 

7 

\ 

vl  J 

1       1       1       <      1     ..J 1 

t.4        1.6        1.8       2.0       2.2       2.4       2.6       2.8 
FREQUENCY  IN   KILOCYCLES  PER   SECOND 


Fig.  7. — Attenuation  versus  frequency  characteristics  of  bandpass  filters  shown  at 
(b)  in  figure  5. 


1.0     t.2     1.4    1.6     1.8  2.0   2.2  2.4   2.6  2.8   3.0    3.2 
FREQUENCY  IN   KILOCYCLES  PER  SECOND 


Fig.  8. — Linear  discriminator  characteristic. 


276 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


2125  cycles  and  were  demodulated  by  a  linear  discriminator  centered  about 
2125  cycles  as  shown  in  Fig.  8.  The  characteristics  of  the  low-pass  filtering 
are  shown  in  Fig.  9.  These  low-pass  filters  were  adjusted  by  oscillographic 
observation  of  the  signal  wave  form  and  had  cut-off  characteristics  giving 
very  little  characteristic  distortion^.  The  d-c.  amplifier  was  a  high-gain 
nonlinear  type  designed  so  as  to  have  a  square-wave  output  having  transi- 
tions established  by  the  passage  of  the  demodulated  voltage  wave  through  a 
narrow  amplitude  range.  The  amplitude  and  wave  front  slope  of  the  de- 
modulated wave  thus  had  no  effect  on  the  output  wave  form  and  could  not 
affect  the  distortion  measuring  equipment. 


UJ  1.0 

o 

A  ^'^'*>N^ 

3 

-   \       V^*^ 

H    ■ 

\       \ 

Q^O.S 

-     \       \ 

MINIMUM 

-      \        \ 

"v^FILTERING 

< 

\        \ 

^*v»,,^ 

hO.6 

\         \ 

^'*'**«,„^_^ 

D 

\          \ 

^"^1^^ 

Q. 

\            N 

^^ 

1- 

1 

3  0.4 

\ 

O 

\ 

lU 
5  0.2 

\CUT- 

OFF>v, 

\&0r^ 

I90AJ\ 

< 

^^ 

V 

-J 

^^^ 

\ 

^      0 

1 

i"**i»^r 

>v 

100    200    300   400    500    600 
FREQUENCY  IN  CYCLES  PER  SECOND 


Fig.  9. — Attenuation  versus  frequency  characteristics  of  low-pass  filters. 


Experimental  Results 
Band  Width  Before  Demodulation 

The  band  width  before  demodulation  determines  the  amount  of  noise  and 
interference  which  is  to  be  accepted  along  with  the  desired  signal  and  thus 
largely  determines  the  signal-to-noise  condition  at  the  antenna  at  which 
the  system  fails  to  receive  intelUgence.  The  band  width  at  this  point 
(point  '*a"  in  Fig.  5)  also  limits  the  signaUng  speed  capabilities  of  the  system. 
In  the  following  experimental  data  the  values  of  band  width  were  measured 
between  the  points  of  6  db  loss  above  that  at  midband. 

Efect  on  Signaling  Speed 

For  both  methods  of  signaling  considered  here  the  band  width  must  be 
at  least  twice  the  maximum  signaling  speed  in  dot-cycles  per  second  but  it 
is  found  that  signal  distortion  rises  rapidly  for  a  band  width  less  than  thiee 
times  the  maximum  signaling  speed,  and  that  a  factor  of  at  least  four  times 
is  indicated  for  a  system  which  is  to  have  reasonably  low  distortion  with  any 
margin  of  safety.  The  signaling  speed  capability  of  a  given  band  width  is 
nearly  the  same  for  FS  signals  as  for  AM  (on-off)  signals.     In  Fig.  10  is 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


111 


shown  the  over-all  signaling  frequency  response  to  FS  and  AM  signals  for 
a  nominal  band  width  at  point  "a"  of  about  740  cycles.  It  will  be  noted 
that  the  FS  method  is  but  slightly  inferior  and  that  both  systems  fail  at  a 
frequency  of  approximately  one-half  the  band  width. 

E^eci  on  Noise: 

The  effect  of  thermal  noise  on  distortion  for  bandwidths  of  115,  230,  and 
740  cycles  is  shown  in  Figs.  11  and  12.     The  rms.  noise-to-carrier  ratios 


< 

Q  150.8 

?^ 
ZiO 
Q-iiJO.6 

r< 

^go.4 
FO 

iiJQO.2 


- 

^^^^^--^^AM 

""-^s^^ 

_ 

\     \ 

\      \ 

\    \ 

- 

FS        -A    \ 

- 

(350 f^  SHIFT)   \    I 

- 

>. 

1                1              .1 1 — L^ — 

too    200    300    400    500 
DOTTING  SPEED  IN  DOTS  PER  SECOND 


Fig.  10. — Overall  frequency  response  of  a  740-cycle  band  to  AM  and  FS  signals. 


z 

UJ 

U 

a:40 

UJ 
Q. 

Z 


30 


1 

1 

1 

band:  shift: 

740'^-',  350~> 
230~,    l40~-j 

1 
/ 

1 
1 

"7" 

-/ 

-•:? 

/- 

1 

"^ 

— "-HI 

11 — 

m.. 

— 

— 

zs= 

Z=^ 

^ 

^y 

-20     -18      -16       -14      -12      -10       -8-6-4-2  0  2  4  6 

RMS   NOISE-TO- CARRIER    RATIO   IN    DECIBELS 

Fig.  11.— Peak  distortion  versus  thermal  noise  for  FS  transmission— 80-cycle  cutoflF 
low-pass  filter. 

indicated  in  the  figures  were  measured  in  the  3300-cycle  band  of  the  radio 
receiver  in  all  cases.  The  actual  noise-to-carrier  ratio  existing  in  the  trans- 
mission band  used  was  lower  and  may  be  obtained  from  the  following  table. 
The  values  of  correction  are  from  rms.  measurements. 


Pass  Band  at  Point  "a" 
1920  cycles 
740 
230 
115 


Correction  to  be  made 
-2.3  db 
-6.5 
-11.6 
-14.3 


278 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


For  AM  signals,  Fig.  12,  varying  the  bandwidth  has  little  effect  when  the 
telegraph  signal  distortion  is  less  than  15%.  Although  the  wider  bands 
accepted  more  noise  power,  this  added  noise  merely  produced  high-frequency 
noise  components  which  were  removed  by  the  low-pass  filter.  This  added 
noise  does,  however,  cause  the  peak  noise  to  exceed  the  signal  amplitude  at 
a  lower  noise-to-carrier  ratio  and  cause  failure  before  that  for  a  narrower 
band  condition. 

In  the  case  of  FS  signals ,  Fig.  11,  changing  the  bandwidth  and  the  fre- 
quency shift  simultaneously,  and  in  approximately  the  same  proportion, 
alters  the  whole  distortion  characteristic.  At  low  noise  levels  a  wider  band 
with  a  greater  frequency  shift  gives  an  improved  signal-to-noise  condition. 
However,  as  the  noise  level  is  increased  the  wider  band  causes  the  peak  noise 


-18       -16       -14      -12       -10       -8         -6        -4        -2 
RMS  NOISE-TO-CARRIER    RATIO  IN    DECIBELS 

Fig.  12. — Peak  distortion  versus  thermal  noise  for  AM  transmission — 80-cycle  cutoflF 
low-pass  filter, 

to  exceed  the  carrier  at  a  lower  noise  level  than  with  a  narrower  band.  Thus 
a  change  to  a  wider  band  gives  less  distortion  at  low  noise  levels  and  more 
distortion  at  high  noise  levels.  This  results  in  a  much  more  sharply  breaking 
distortion  characteristic  for  the  wider  band.  This  behavior  is  typical  of 
frequency  modulation  systems  in  general. 

Although  the  noise  actually  passed  by  the  740-cycle  band  filter  was 
approximately  8  db  above  that  passed  by  the  115-cycle  band  filter,  the  dif- 
ference in  the  failure  points  (35-40%  distortion)  for  the  two  bandwidths 
will  be  seen  to  be  only  about  half  this  amount  in  db  for  both  AM  and  FS. 
This  phenomenon  is  typical  of  carrier  telegraph  systems  when  compared 
at  the  same  signaling  speed.  This  means  that  it  is  not  particularly  beneficial 
to  decrease  band  width  to  obtain  lower  distortion  under  high  noise  condi- 
tions. The  main  reason  for  narrow  bands  is  for  more  economical  use  of 
frequency  space. 

As  to  the  comparison  between  FS  and  AM,  the  FS  method  has  an  advan- 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


279 


tage  of  2.5  to  4.5  db  at  a  distortion  of  35%  to  40%,  corresponding  to  the 
selector  failure  point  of  the  usual  teletypewriter.  From  a  signal-to-noise 
standpoint  it  is  thus  seen  that  the  gain  in  changing  to  the  FS  method  is 
approximately  equal  to  the  resulting  increase  in  average  transmitted  power 
of  about  3  db.  A  comparison  at  a  lower  distortion  such  as  15%  shows 
an  advantage  of  4  to  6  db.  At  a  still  lower  distortion  the  740-cycle  band, 
because  of  the  higher  deviation  ratio,  shows  an  improvement  of  over  10  db. 
In  this  region  the  slopes  of  the  curves  make  accurate  comparisons  impossible 
due  to  the  masking  effect  of  other,  sources  of  distortion.  These  large  im- 
provements at  low  noise  levels  are  similar  to  those  associated  with  wide- 
band FM  broadcast  systems.  However,  in  carrier  telegraph  transmission 
the  criteria  are  so  different  that  the  difference  between  a  nearly  perfect 


50 

I- 
z 

UJ 

^40 


Q. 
?30 


1 

band:    SHIFT: 

740~,   350A^-> 
115^  ,   10^ -J 

/ 

1 
1 
1 

/ 

1 
/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

/ 



— 

.^ 

^- 

10 


-26     -24     -22      -20      -18       -16       -14      -12       -10       -8        -6       -4        -2  0 

RELATIVE   NOISE  LEVEL  IN   DECIBELS 

Fig.  13. — Peak  distortion  versus  impulse  noise  for  FS  transmission — 80-cycle  cutolf 
low-pass  filter. 

circuit  and  one  of  small  distortion  is  not  of  great  importance  except  when  a 
large  number  of  telegraph  sections  are  to  be  operated  in  tandem.  From  a 
practical  standpoint  the  improvement  in  signal-to-noise  is  not  more  than 
about  6  db  for  equal  band  widths. 

In  Figs.  13  and  14  similar  characteristics  are  shown  for  the  case  of  impulse 
noise.  The  noise  level  values  of  these  cur\'es  are  purely  relative  since  no 
attempt  to  measure  the  peak  noise  was  made.  The  comparisons  between 
AM  and  FS,  and  between  different  band  widths,  agree  closely  with  those 
for  thermal  noise. 


EJfect  of  Limiter  on  Signal-to-Noise  Ratio 

The  limiter  in  the  FS  system  is  a  high-gain  nonlinear  amplifier  which 
delivers  to  the  frequency  discriminating  networks  an  essentially  square  wave 
having  transitions  coinciding  with  the  passage  of  the  instantaneous  voltage 
of  the  input  carrier  signal  through  zero.     The  limiter  thus  passes  only  the 


280 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


frequency  or  phase  changes  of  the  signal.  Noise  voltages  which  are  small 
compared  to  the  signal  cause  approximately  linear  phase  modulation  of  the 
signal  and  this  is  passed  through  the  Hmiter.  The  amount  of  frequency 
deviation  thus  imparted  to  the  carrier  by  a  given  component  of  noise  is 
proportional  not  only  to  its  amplitude  but  also  to  its  frequency  separation 
from  the  carrier.     This  gives  rise  to  the  so-called  ''triangular  noise  spec- 


50 

H 

z 

UJ 

IT 
111 
£L 

?30 

z 
o 


1 

1 
1 

1      band:        t 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y.- 

/ 

.,''■■' 

^- 

-26 


-20      -18      -16       -14      -12      -10       -8       -6 
RELATIVE  NOISE  LEVEL  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  14. — Peak  distortion  versus  impulse  noise  for  x\M  transmission- 
low-pass  filter. 


-cycle  cutofif 


50 


40 


S  20 
O 


/ 

1 

WITHOUT  LIMITER  — 

WITH    LIMITER 

/ 

rf 

y 

/ 

/ 

.._ 

^^"^ 

^ 

/ 

" 

■16      -14       -12      -10       -8 
RMS   NOISE-TO-CARRIER 


-6        -4 
RATIO  IN 


-2  0 

DECIBELS 


Fig.  15. — Effect  of  the  limiter  on  distortion  versus  thermal  noise  for  FS  transmission — 
740-cycle  band,  350-cycle  frequency  shift,  80-cycle  cutoff  low-pass  filter. 

trum"''  when  a  hnear  frequency  discriminator  is  used.  If  the  limiter  is 
removed  from  the  frequency-shift  terminal  the  noise  components  in  phase 
with  the  carrier  as  well  as  those  in  quadrature  therewith  are  allowed  to  reach 
the  frequency  discriminating  network.  For  a  balanced  type  discriminator 
this  increases  the  demodulated  noise  for  small  amounts  of  noise  about  ?>  db. 
In  Fig.  15  is  shown  the  effect  of  removing  the  limiter  from  the  circuit.  The 
limiter  is  seen  to  have  little  effect  on  the  failure  point,  but  an  improvement 
of  2  to  4  db  is  shown  in  the  5  to  12%  distortion  region. 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


281 


Other  beneficial  effects  resulting  from  the  use  of  a  Umiter  are  discussed 
below  under  "Level  Variations". 

Demodulation  of  Frequency  Shift  Signals 

It  is  desirable  that  the  frequency  discriminating  network  be  of  the  bal- 
anced type  having  two  branches  allowing  differential  combination  of  the 
two  rectified  outputs.  This  minimizes  the  response  to  amplitude  modula- 
tion not  eliminated  by  the  limiter.  Two  general  tj^es  of  networks  have 
been  in  common  use  for  FS  telegraph.  One  consists  of  two  bandpass  filters 
centered  about  the  mark  and  space  frequencies  respectively  and  effectively 
dividing  the  total  band  into  halves.  Th'^,  other  consists  of  a  two-branch 
network  each  branch  of  which  has  a  varying  amplitude  characteristic  extend- 


•16       -14      -12      -10       -8 
RMS   NOISE-TO-CARRIER 


-6       -4       -2  0 

RATIO  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  16. — Effect  of  magnitude  of  frequency  shift  on  distortion  versus  thermal  noise  in 
FS  transmission — 740-cycle  band  and  80-cycle  cutoff  low-pass  filter. 

ing  over  the  complete  transmission  band  and  usually  well  beyond.  The 
amplitude-versus-frequency  characteristics  of  these  two  branches  have 
opposite  slopes  and  are  of  such  shape  that  differential  combination  of  their 
rectified  outputs  results  in  an  approximately  linear  voltage-versus-frequency 
curve,  passing  through  zero  at  midband.     (Fig.  8) 

In  Fig.  17  is  shown  the  characteristic  of  a  two-bandpass-filter  type  of  dis- 
criminator which  was  used  in  early  frequency  shift  terminals.  The  charac- 
teristic is  fairly  flat  near  the  mark  and  space  frequencies  so  that  this  type 
of  discriminator  does  not  produce  a  triangular  noise  spectrum.  In  Fig.  18 
is  shown  the  type  of  discriminator  characteristic  obtained  by  the  use  of  two 
narrow  bandpass  filters.  In  this  case  there  is  no  broad  flat  region  around  the 
mark  and  space  frequencies  and  an  intermediate  type  of  characteristic  (ap- 
proaching the  linear  type)  is  obtained. 

With  the  linear  type  of  discriminator  the  demodulated  noise  has  the  well 
known  triangular  spectrum  and,  as  illustrated  previously,  the  signahng 


282 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


speed  capability  is  essentially  the  same  as  an  AM  system  of  equal  band 
width. 

To  compare  experimentally  these  two  general  types  of  discriminators  a 
74()-cycle  band  system  with  linear  discriminator  and  350-cycle  shift  was 


40 

I/) 

\ 

-J 

\ 

/ 

UJ 

\  FILTER 

/ 

D30 

\   LOSS 

/ 

UJ 

\ 

/ 

Q 

\ 

/ 

Z 

\ 

/ 

,n20 

\                     DISCRIMINATOR         /       -\ 

10 
(0 

\         />' ^N   OUTPUT 

/ 

o 

\       '               ^ 

/         - 

_l 

\      '                   ^ 

/ 

DC    10 

\    /                    » 

/ 

UJ 

\    '                      I 

/ 

\— 

\  /                       1 

/ 

5 

\/                       \ 

/ 

u. 

v.            \ 

/ 

0 

-'  i 

y- 

/ 

1 

/ 

1 

1 

/ 

1 

/ 

\ 

/ 

■     ,     ,     .     1     .     ,     ,V.    J- 

-•,'', 

2                            3 

4 

o 

20   > 

z 


to 

-20^ 
FREQUENCY  IN  KILOCYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  17. — Characteristics  of  1920-cycle  bandpass  filter  and  associated  discriminator 
consisting  of  two  bandpass  filters. 


Q 

z 
< 

(0 
Q 

_i 

5UJ 

"-UJ 
(OQ 


20 


15 


10 


DISCRIMINATOR 


10 


-5 


-10 


1.2       1.3         1.4        1.5        1.6         1.7        1.8      1.9 
FREQUENCY  IN  KILOCYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.   18. — Characteristics  of  295-cycIe  bandpass  filter  and  associated  discriminator 
consisting  of  two  bandpass  filters. 

compared  with  a  system  with  a  bandwidth  of  about  1900  cycles,  a  discrimi- 
nator consisting  of  two  740-cycle  bandpass  filters,  and  an  850-cycle  shift. 
The  results  are  shown  in  V'\g.  19.  The  two  systems  are  seen  to  reach  failure 
distortion  values  at  the  same  signal-to-noise  point,  with  the  linear  dis- 
criminator becoming  about  vS  db  superior  at  distortions  around  5%.  A 
second  comparison  was  made  using  roughly  equal  bandwidths.     A  295-cycle 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


283 


band  with  a  discriminator  consisting  of  two  bandpass  filters  and  170-cycle 
shift  was  compared  with  a  230-cycle  band  with  a  linear  discriminator  and  a 
shift  of  140  cycles.  The  results  are  shown  in  Fig.  20.  The  linear  dis- 
criminator in  this  case  appears  to  fail  slightly  sooner  but  shows  a  superiority 
of  about  2  db  in  the  5%  distortion  region.     Due  to  the  rounded  character- 


so 

z 

LU 

oc 

UJ 
Q. 

130 


a:20 
O 


1 

TWO  BAND- PASS  FIL 

DISCRIMINATOR 

(1920'^  BAND,  850'^SI- 

TER 

\ 

1IFT) 

j 

LINEAR  DISCRIMINATOR 
(740~BAND,  350~  SHIFT) 

V-w 

/. 

/ 
/ 
/ 

_ 

^- 

^^^ 

y 



-_— 

16       -14       -12       -10       -8         -6        -4         -2  0 

RMS   NOISE-TO-CARRIER  RATIO  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  19. — Linear  discriminator  versus  two-bandpass-filter  discriminator  having  the 
same  signaling  speed  capability.  Effect  of  thermal  noise  on  peak  distortion — 80-cycle 
cutoff  low-pass  filter. 


50 


<-'40 

z 

2 

o 


30 


1 

LINEAR  DISCRIMINATOR              J 
(230~BAND,  140~SHIFT)— — W 

TWO   BAND-PASS  FILTER          \i 
DISCRIMINATOR                  V 
(295~ BAND,  170^^  SHIFT) ~^^    / 

1 

1 
1 

■f 

'Z^ 

-y 

— 

-20      -18      -16 


-14      -12       -10       -8        -6        -4        -2  0 

RMS    NOISE-TO-CARRIER  RATIO  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  20. — Linear  discriminator  versus  two-bandpass-filter  discriminator  with  equal 
bandwidths.     Effect  of  thermal  noise  on  peak  distortion — 80-cycle  low-pass  filter. 


istic  of  the  two  bandpass  filters  used  as  a  discriminator  in  the  second  com- 
parison (Fig.  18)  the  difference  in  discriminators  is  less  than  in  the  previous 
test.  It  has  been  found^  that  for  a  given  signaling  speed  capability  almost 
twice  the  bandw^idth  is  required  if  a  two-bandpass-filter  discriminator  is  used 
instead  of  the  linear  type.  This  added  band  width  does  not  appear  to  cause 
any  loss  in  signal-to-noise  capabilities  as  to  the  failure  point.  The  less  sharp 
breaking  point,  however,  makes  the  linear  discriminator  superior  for  moder- 


284  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

ate  and  low  distortions.  For  a  system  occupying  a  given  bandwidth  the 
two-bandpass-filter  discriminator  provides  some  improvement  at  the  failure 
point  but  is  still  somewhat  inferior  to  the  linear  discriminator  at  moderate 
distortions.  More  importantly  the  two-bandpass-filter  discriminator  im- 
pairs the  signaling  speed  capabilities  to  an  extent  which  depends  upon  the 
shape  of  the  cutoff  of  the  filters  used. 

Bandwidth  After  Demodulation  {Low-Pass  Filtering) 

In  an  ^w  system  the  low-pass  filtering  after  demodulation  can,  to  a  large 
degree,  make  up  for  a  greater  than  necessary  bandwidth  before  demodula- 
tion. During  marking  intervals  the  added  noise  admitted  by  a  wide  band 
causes  noise  in  the  demodulated  output  at  frequencies  higher  than  the  signal- 
ing frequency  and  this  can  be  filtered  out,  unless  the  noise  is  so  great  as  to 
over-modulate  the  carrier.  During  spacing  intervals  there  is  no  carrier  and 
hence  only  the  noise  is  rectified.  Added  noise  admitted  by  a  wide  band 
causes  not  only  higher-frequency  components  in  this  rectified  noise,  which 
may  be  filtered  out,  but  also  an  increase  in  the  d-c.  component.  This  tends 
to  cause  marking  bias  of  the  received  signals  as  the  noise  level  increases. 

In  an  FS  system,  where  the  carrier  is  present  continuously,  the  added 
noise  from  a  wider  band  produces  high-frequency  noise  components  in  the 
demodulated  output  which  can  be  filtered  out  by  the  low-pass  filter  if  the 
noise  level  is  low.  As  the  noise  level  increases  there  are  short  intervals 
when  the  noise  envelope  exceeds  the  carrier.  The  action  of  the  limiter  is 
to  give  preference  to  the  greater  signal,  in  this  case  the  noise,  and  since  the 
noise  will  appear  to  the  discriminator  as  a  carrier  fluctuating  around  mid- 
band  as  a  center,  the  demodulated  output  momentarily  dips  toward  zero. 
As  the  noise  increases,  the  duration  and  frequency  of  these  holes  in  the  signal 
increase.  The  low-pass  filter,  by  excluding  frequencies  considerably  in 
excess  of  the  maximum  signaling  speed,  prevents  these  holes  in  the  signal 
from  producing  false  or  extra  transitions  in  the  telegraph  signal  output. 
The  low-pass  filtering,  however,  cannot  prevent  the  true  transitions  from 
being  displaced  by  this  type  of  noise  component  since  the  signal  is  obliterated 
momentarily.  Its  most  important  function  is  to  prevent  a  breakup  in  the 
signal  output  until  a  fairly  high  distortion  is  reached.  For  noise  peaks 
exceeding  the  carrier  the  low-pass  filter  of  an  AM  system  also  serves  much 
the  same  purposes. 

In  Fig.  21  is  shown  the  effect  of  changing  the  bandwidth  of  the  low-pass 
filter  in  an  FS  and  in  an  AM  system  in  the  presence  of  thermal  noise.  The 
effect  of  a  narrower  low-pass  filter  is  seen  to  consist  mainly  in  shifting  the 
breaking  point  toward  a  higher  noise  level.  Similar  characteristics  for  the 
case  of  impulse  noise  are  shown  in  Fig.  22. 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


285 


Magnitude  of  Frequency  Shift  in  Relation  to  Bandwidth 

A  frequency-shift  transient  in  a  band  of  given  width  has  a  wave  shape 
much  like  that  of  an  ampHtude  transient  in  the  same  band  provided  the  shift 
is  symmetrical  and  not  over  50%  of  the  bandwidth.^  If  the  frequency  shift 
approaches  the  total  width  of  the  band  the  transient  is  of  such  shape  as  to 


20 


AM 

1 

L.R  CUT- 
I90~ 
80~ 

off: 

\ 

1 

1 

1 

*i 

/ 

/ 

1 
1 

1 
1 

/ 

1 

FS 

y 

// 

/     (350 '^  SHIFT) 
><-/- 1 90 ~ L.R  CUT-OFF 
/r4--80'^  L.R  CUT-OFF 



-^ 

/'' 

— 

-20      -18        -16 


-14      -12       -10       -8        -6        -4        -2         0 
RMS  NOISE-TO-CARRIER  RATIO  IN  DECIBELS 


Fig.  21.— Effect  of  the  low-pass  filter  cutoff  frequency  on  distortion  in  the  presence  of 
thermal  noise — 740-cycle  band. 

50 


^40 
cc 

Q. 

2   30 


20 


AM 

/ 

1 
/ 

L.R  cut-off: 

190~— -H 
80-.-"/ 

\- 

1 

f 

/ 

1/ 

'' 

FS 

> 

A 

/ 

^(350 

~SH 

FT) 

* 

A'-i 

30~L.P  CUT-OFF 

^^ 

i^ 

,y^ 

1 

-26     -24     -22 


■20     -18       -16       -14      -12      -10       -8        - 
RELATIVE   NOISE   LEVEL  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  22. — Effect  of  the  low-pass  filter  cutoff  frequency  on  distortion  in  the  presence  of 
impulse  noise — 740-cycle  band. 

cause  distortion  and  to  make  the  system  more  susceptible  to  noise.  A  very 
small  shift  results  in  a  low  amplitude  of  demodulated  signal,  which  is  more 
readily  distorted  by  noise  and  biased  by  frequency  drifts.  It  is  of  interest, 
however,  that  the  signal-to-noise  ratio  of  the  demodulated  signal  is  not 
proportional  to  frequency  shift  for  high  noise  conditions.  As  described 
before,  noise  peaks  tend  to  reduce  momentarily  to  zero  the  output  from  a 
balanced  discriminator.  The  amplitudes  of  the  dips  or  holes  are  thus  about 
one-half  the  demodulated  signal  amplitude  for  any  value  of  shift.  This 
tends  to  maintain  a  constant  signal-to-noise  condition  and  this  characteristic 


286 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


is  illustrated  by  Fig.  16  in  which  the  breaking  point  with  a  100-cycle  shift 
occurs  only  2  db  before  that  with  a  400-cycle  shift  although  the  difference  in 
actual  signal  amplitude  is  12  db.  Figure  23  shows  the  effect  on  signal-to- 
noise  ratio  of  progressively  varying  the  frequency  shift  while  the  bandwidth 


z 

lO 


0.0. 
UJ^_ 
5z 

jB 
V£ 
?^ 
Sa 

ou 

1^- 


TWO  BAND-PASS  FILTER 
DISCRIMINATOR  (1920'^' BAND) 

k^^^^ 

^ 

//LINEAR  DISCRIMINATOR 
'/            (740'\^  band) 

'^v 

/ 

0        0.2      0.4     0.6      0.8        I.O       1.2        1.4       1.6 
FREQUENCY  SHIFT  IN    KILOCYCLES   PER  SECOND 


Fig.  23. — Effect  of  magnitude  of  frequency  shift  on  distortion  produced  by  thermal 
noise — 80-cycle  cutoff  low-pass  filter. 


J     0 

Sen    ^ 

<<  -4 
DCuJ 

C£UJ 

<o 

Oft.    _n 


-10 


/ 

N 

\ 

/ 

> 

A 

f 

A 

'  1 

^ 

s 
s 

1   1 

1  / 

\  > 

r    / 

\    \ 

\ 

/ 

/  shift: 

\ 

\ 

/ 

f*~300~' 

\ 

\ 

I* 

-/-— lOC^^ 

\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

% 

ag^  -14  1 Li: \ \ 

-400    -300  -200    -100       0        100      200    300     400 
FREQUENCY  DRIFT  IN  CYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  24. — Effect  of  frequency  drift  on  distortion  produced  by  thermal  noise  in  FS 
transmission — 740-cycle  band  and  80-cycle  cutoff  low-pass  filter. 

is  kept  constant.  There  is  a  fairly  broad  region  in  which  the  signal-to-noise 
ratio  is  little  affected  by  the  amount  of  frequency  shift.  For  optimum 
results  a  frequency  shift  of  50%  to  6()%  of  the  band  width  is  indicated,  and 
thus  has  been  used  in  most  of  the  experimental  results  given  herein. 

Frequency  Instabilities 

Frequency  drift  of  the  carrier  input  to  the  receiving  terminal  in  general 
causes  biased  signals  and  if  severe  enough  results  in  failure  of  the  system. 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


287 


In  Fig.  25  is  shown  the  effect  of  frequency  drift  on  signal  bias  in  an  AM 
system.  In  an  AM  system  little  bias  is  produced  until  the  carrier  reaches 
the  cutoflf  region  of  the  filter.  The  bias  then  becomes  rapidly  negative  due 
to  the  increased  loss  and  decreased  amplitude  of  demodulated  signal.  When 
an  automatic  gain  control  arrangement  is  used  the  bias  becomes  positive 
due  to  a  distorted  envelope  shape.  The  demodulated  wave  form  deter- 
mines the  degree  of  sensitivity  to  frequency  drift  and  depends  on  the  band- 
width both  before  and  after  demodulation. 

In  an  FS  System  using  a  linear  discriminator,  frequency  drift  changes 
the  d-c.  component  of  the  signals  and  thus  changes  the  operating  point  on 
the  demodulated  wave.  The  amount  of  bias  depends  upon  the  slope  of  the 
wave  front  and  is  thus  affected  by  the  amount  of  low-pass  filtering.  The 
effect  of  frequency  drift  on  bias  for  a  number  of  FS  systems  is  shown  in  Figs. 
26  and  27.     If  a  two-bandpass  filter  type  of  discriminator  is  used  the  system 


cc 

z 

<0-20 
^-30 


|//l 

OW-PASS 
CUT-OFF: 

^ 

1  % 

t 

A  - 

—  80 

V 

\ 

-500  -400  -300  -200  -100      0        100   200   300  400 
FREQUENCY   DRIFT  IN   CYCLES   PER  SECOND 

Fig.  25. — Signal  bias  versus  frequency  drift  for  AM  transmission  in  a  740-cycle  band. 

is  insensitive  to  moderate  frequency  drifts  due  to  the  flat  pass  bands  as  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  26.  The  relative  shape  and  amplitude  of  the  signal  from  a 
linear  discriminator  does  not  change  appreciably  with  frequency  drift; 
only  a  d-c.  displacement  occurs.  This  makes  it  desirable  to  have  the  low- 
pass  filter  coupled  to  the  output  amplifier  by  a  network  which  passes  only 
the  useful  signaling  frequencies  and  blocks  the  d-c.  and  very  slow  drift  com- 
ponents. When  this  is  done  the  effect  of  frequency  drift  on  bias  is  not 
greatly  different  from  that  for  an  AM  system,  as  may  be  seen  by  comparing 
the  dotted  curves  on  Figs.  26  and  27  with  Fig.  25. 

The  general  method  of  performing  this  d-c.  elimination  is  illustrated  in  the 
block  diagram  of  Fig.  29.  The  output  from  the  low-pass  filter  is  passed 
through  a  coupling  network  which  blocks  the  d-c.  and  passes  the  useful 
signaling  frequencies.  The  output  of  the  coupling  network  is  passed 
through  a  positive  feedback  nonlinear  amplifier  which  has  but  two  output 
conditions  representing  the  mark  and  space  of  the  telegraph  signal.  The 
feedback  network  passes  d-c.  and  low  frequencies  so  as  to  just  compensate 
for  the  loss  of  the  coupling  network.  The  time  constant  of  the  coupling 
network  may  be  made  large  enough  so  that  the  signal  wave  form  into  the 


288 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


d-c.  amplifier  is  practically  the  same  as  at  the  output  of  the  low-pass  filter. 
The  operating  point  on  the  demodulated  wave  may  be  readily  adjusted  by 


-500 


■400 


-300       -200        -100  0  100  200 

FREQUENCY   DRIFT  IN  CYCLES  PER  SECOND 


^"  ig.  26. — Signal  bias  versus  frequency  drift  for  FS  transmission — wide  filter  bands. 


30 


20 


z 

ID 
U 

a. 
Q.     0 

z 

< 

03-10 


-20 


-30 


1 

/ 

/ 

LINEAR    DISCRIMINATOR 
(230'VBAND,  leO'V  SHIFT) 
NO    D-C    ELIMINATION--- 
-  WITH    D-C    ELIMINATION 

/ 

> 

/ 

/ 

/ 

""--, 

7 

\ 
\ 

\ 

/ 

X 

"""*•», 

^^^v 

/ 

^/ 

TWO    BAND -PASS  FILTER 

DISCRIMINATOR 
(295~BAND ,  I70~  SHIFT) 

/ 

^ 

-100 


-60  -40  -20  0  20  40  60 

FREQUENCY  DRIFT  IN   CYCLES   PER   SECOND 


100 


Fig.  27. — Signal  bias  versus  frequency  drift  for  FS  transmission— narrow  filter  bands. 

adjusting  the  bias  voltage  at  the  input  to  the  d-c.  amplifier.  This  arrange- 
ment differs  from  the  impulse  type  of  d-c.  elimination,  in  which  the  demodu- 
lated wave  form  is  effectively  differentiated  to  form  pulses  but  a  fraction  of  a 
unit  dot  in  length. 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


289 


When  d-c.  elimination  is  used,  operation  with  FS  signals  decentered  in  the 
pass  band  causes  little  bias  but  it  does  cause  a  loss  in  signal-to-noise  ratio, 
especially  at  high  noise  levels.  Due  to  the  effect  of  noise  peaks  in  causing  a 
dip  toward  zero  in  the  demodulator  output,  the  effect  of  noise  becomes 
exaggerated  during  the  signal  condition  which  is  farther  from  midband. 
This  change  in  signal-to-noise  condition  with  frequency  drift  is  shown  in 


20 


BAND:    ^ 

.OW-PASS 
CUT-  OFF: 

80^  -— 

■~     V       -^ 

< 

^^ 

- 

740'^^  ,           80~  -~. 
740'^  ,          190~  -y 

<^ 

^ 

,-.'" 

*^ 

' 

^ 

'  / 
/ 

J. 

'-'' 

-r 

^^ 

d 

^^ 

' 

740 'V  BAND, 

MINIMUM  LOW-PASS 

FILTERING 

/ 

/' 

f 

f  \ 

1 

1 
1 
1 

/ 

—T 

^ 

0  2  4  6  8         10         12         14 

CARRIER   LEVEL  VARIATION    IN  DECIBELS 


18         20 


Fig,  28. — Signal  bias  versus  carrier  level  variation  for  AM  transmission. 


INPUT 


OUTPUT 


COUPLING 
NETWORK 

n 

t 

1 

TWU  (-UNUIIIUN 
D-C  AMPLIFIER 

i 

FEEDBACK 
NETWORK 

Fig.  29. — Block  diagram  of  dc.  elimination  and  restoration  method  used  to  minimize 
signal  bias  caused  by  frequency  drift. 

Figs.  24  and  30.  A  comparison  between  a  two-bandpass-filter  discriminator 
and  a  linear  discriminator  with  d-c.  elimination  as  regards  frequency  drifts 
in  the  presence  of  noise  is  shown  in  Fig.  31. 

Radio  telegraph  systems  operating  in  the  H.F.  region  require  a  high  degree 
of  frequency  stability  if  narrow  bandwidths  are  to  be  used.  Because  of 
the  several  frequency  conversions  involved  a  number  of  different  oscillators 
or  frequency  sources  are  involved  but  usually  the  major  burden  of  frequency 
stability  rests  on  the  transmitter  exciter  and  the  high-frequency  beating 
oscillator  of  the  receiver. 

Various  methods  of  automatic  frequency  control  may  be  used  to  hold  the 


290 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


carrier  input  to  the  demodulator  at  the  correct  frequency.  In  the  case  of 
FS  signals  the  control  may  be  arranged  to  operate  only  on  the  marking  fre- 
quency or  to  utilize  both  the  mark  and  space  conditions.  It  is  preferable 
to  have  inherent  frequency  stability  rather  than  to  compensate  for  the  drift 
at  the  receiving  end  since  it  is  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  provide  an  auto- 
matic frequency  control  which  will  not  reduce  the  transmission  capabilities 


Hjco 
zao. 

% 

cc 


-14 
-16 
-18 
-20 
-22 
-24 
-26 

,^ 

V 

/ 

/* 

N 

\, 

/ 

\ 

i 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

-400  -300  -200    -100       0        100    200     300   400 
FREQUENCY   DRIFT  IN  CYCLES   PER   SECOND 


Fig.  30. — Effect  of  frequency  drift  on  distortion  produced  b}^  impulse  noise  in  FS 
-ansm'ssion — 740-cycle  band,  100  cycle  frequency  shift,  80-cycle  cutoff  low-pass  filter. 


-500  -400  -300  -200     100      0        100   200    300   400 
FREQUENCY   DRIFT  IN  CYCLES  PER   SECOND 


TWO 
BAND-PASS  FILTER 
-    DISCRIMINATOR 

LINEAR 
DISCRIMINATOR 

1920 '^  BAND, 
eSC^J  SHIFT 

D.C.  ELIMINATION 
740'^^BAND, 
SOC^SHIFT 

/ 

1. 

t' 

F 

1 
1 

/ 

1 
1 
1 

I 

\ 

/ 

1 

1 

V. 

^ 

— 

y 

/ 

^^'. 

1 
f 

Fig.  31. — Linear  discriminator  versus  two-bandpass-filter  discriminator  when  frequency 
drift  occurs  in  the  presence  of  thermal  noise 4  db  rms  noise-to-carrier  ratio. 

of  the  system  in  the  presence  of  noise  and  other  interference.  Best  results 
are  obtained  if  the  frequency  stability  is  high  enough  to  require  but  a  very 
slow  correction,  which  usually  dictates  some  mechanical  rather  than  elec- 
tronic tuning  arrangement.  Manual  retuning  may  be  found  satisfactory 
where  stability  is  reasonably  good  provided  care  is  taken  in  making  the  ad- 
justments. Suitable  frequency  stability  with  the  retention  of  flexibility  in 
frequency  adjustment  may  be  obtained  by  frequency  sources  making  use  of 
a  combination  of  crystal  oscillators  and  high-stability  variable  oscillators  of 
lower  frequency. 


PRJEQUENCr  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  291 

Level  Variation^ 

Extreme  and  rapid  variations  of  received  level  exist  in  H.F.  radio  trans- 
mission. It  is  upon  the  ability  to  accommodate  these  level  variations  that 
the  merits  of  an  H.F.  radio  telegraph  system  must  largely  be  judged.  FS 
telegraph  shows  its  outstanding  advantage  in  this  respect. 

In  an  AM  system  in  order  to  obtain  zero-bias  signals  and  optimum  signal- 
to-noise  conditions  the  operating  point  must  be  near  the  half  amplitude  point 
on  the  demodulated  wave.  This  means  that  complete  failure  will  result  for 
a  drop  in  level  of  6  db  unless  some  compensating  arrangement  is  provided. 
The  slope  of  the  bias-versus-level  characteristic  depends  upon  the  slope  of 
the  demodulated  wave  which  in  turn  depends  on  the  bandwidth  of  the  sys- 
tem and  upon  the  degree  of  low-pass  filtering.  The  bias-versus-level  char- 
acteristics of  some  AM  systems  are  shown  in  Fig.  28.  Where  the  level 
variations  are  relatively  slow  compared  to  the  signaling  speed,  automatic 
gain  control  circuits  can  be  used  to  maintain  a  nearly  constant  level  into  the 
demodulator.  However,  w^here  large  rapid  level  changes  occur,  as  in  the 
H.F.  range,  it  is  seen  that  a  narrow  band  AM  system  would  fail  completely 
regardless  of  the  amount  of  transmitted  power.  For  printer  operation 
over  an  AM  system  in  the  H.F.  range  a  fairly  wide  band  and  Uttle  low-pass 
filtering  should  be  used,  so  as  to  keep  the  wave  shape  of  the  signals  as 
square  as  possible  and  thus  obtain  a  fairly  flat  bias-versus-level  charac- 
teristic. By  adjusting  the  operating  point  low  on  the  demodulated  wave, 
approaching  the  spacing  noise  level,  the  greatest  possible  range  of  acceptable 
rapid  level  change  will  be  obtained.  The  slower  level  change  components 
may  be  handled  by  the  usual  automatic  gain-control  circuits.  This  w4ll 
cause  the  bias  of  the  signals  to  average  somewhat  marking  but  the  peak 
distortions  will  be  kept  to  a  minimum. 

In  an  FS  system  no  bias  is  produced  so  long  as  both  the  marking  and  spac- 
ing frequencies  are  affected  alike,  with  their  received  levels  remaining  equal. 
Such  non-selective  fading  conditions  cause  no  distortion  even  when  they 
occur  at  quite  rapid  rates.  If  a  balanced  type  of  discriminator  is  used, 
amplitude  limiting  is  not  essential  to  obtaining  this  immunity  from  non- 
selective variations  in  attenuation.  It  is  only  when  the  mark  and  space 
levels  are  different  that  bias  results.  In  Fig.  32  are  shown  bias  versus  mark- 
to-space  level  ratio  characteristics  both  with  and  without  a  limiter.  More 
bias  exists  when  there  is  no  limiter  because  the  amplitude  of  the  demodulated 
wave  is  directly  affected  and  consequently  the  low-pass  filtering  also  becomes 
a  factor.  With  a  limiter  the  amplitude  of  the  demodulated  wave  is  held 
constant  and  the  amount  of  low-pass  filtering  has  no  effect  on  bias.  Some 
bias  is  still  produced,  however,  due  to  the  differently  shaped  frequency 
transients  in  the  passband  of  the  receiving  system  when  a  level  change  occurs 


292 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


z 

UJ    10 


to  -10 
< 

CO 

-20 
-30 
-40 


/f 

1 

/ 

LOW- PASS 
CUT-OFF 

WITH  LI  MITER 

80'^  OR  190'^ 

1 
1 

/ 

/ 

/ 

^ 

y 

i' 

■'^ 

Y 

/ 

//  LOW- PASS 

/       CUT-OFF 

/       NO  1  IMITPR 

/ 
/ 

/ 
/ 

H 

-  eo'v 

/ 

1 1 

-40      -30      -20       -10  0  10         20        30        40 

MARK-TO-SPACE  LEVEL  RATIO  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  32. — Signal  bias  versus  mark-to-space  level  ratio  in  FS  transmission — 740-cycle 
band,  350-cycle  frequency  shift. 


Q.    -5 

z 

o)  -10 

< 

CO 
-15 

-20 

-25 

-30 


-35 


/ 

// 

y 

i 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

TWO   FILTER 

DISCRIMINATOR 

1920^^^  BAND  ,  850^  SHIFT 

295*^  BAND,  ITO*^  SHIFT 

/ 

/^ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

A 

/: 

^^ 

_,*"' 

/ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

." 

^--^ 

y 

=?; 

^ 

y 

/ 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

Vi 

7 

LINEAR    DISCRIMINATOR 
"-115  ~BAND,  TS'^' SHIFT 
--230'^  BAND, ITO*^  SHIFT 

1 

1 

^ 
/ 

/ 

1 

-35    -30 


•25     -20      -15     -10       -5         0  5        10        15       20 

MARK-TO-SPACE  LEVEL  RATIO  IN   DECIBELS 


25 


Fig.  33.— Signal  bias  versus  mark-to-space  level  ratio  in  FS  transmission— 80-cycle 
cutoff  low-pass  filter. 


at  the  moment  when  the  frequency  changes.  In  Fig.  33  this  bias  effect  is 
demonstrated  for  various  bandwidths.  For  moderate  mark-to-space  level 
ratios  the  bias  effect  is  small  and  linear,  with  a  slope  which  usually  varies 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  293 

inversely  with  a  change  in  bandwidth.  At  extreme  level  differentials  the 
bias  may  rise  very  rapidly  due  to  the  amplitude  and  phase  characteristics 
of  the  input  passband;  transients  from  the  greater  amplitude  condition  may 
severely  interfere  with  the  lower  amplitude  condition.  For  the  types  of 
bandpass  filters  used  in  the  tests  it  appeared  that  the  amount  of  level  dif- 
ference required  to  produce  20%  bias  did  not  change  greatly  with  band- 
width. Severe  wave  shaping  of  the  signal  at  the  transmitter  was  found  to 
be  an  aid  in  reducing  the  bias  effect  due  to  such  transients  but  the  charac- 
teristic distortion  became  too  great  to  give  any  practical  improvement. 

The  fading  modulator  used  in  obtaining  the  data  for  Fig.  33  caused  no 
change  in  phase.  Selective  fading  over  an  actual  radio  circuit  would  involve 
considerable  phase  shift  and  greater  distortion  might  be  expected.  -The 
data  of  Fig.  32  were  obtained  by  use  of  the  phase  control  associated  with  the 
crystal  filter  of  the  radio  receiver  to  vary  the  loss-versus-frequency  charac- 
teristics of  the  receiving  pass  band  and  thus  cause  unequal  mark  and  space 
amphtudes.  This  method  gave  an  ampUtude  and  phase  characteristic  for 
the  transmission  band  more  like  that  over  an  actual  radio  circuit. 

MuLTiPATH  Propagation  Effects 

The  rapid  fading  conditions  prevailing  in  the  H.F.  range  are  brought 
about  by  multipath  propagation.  Under  such  conditions,  the  signal  in- 
duced in  a  receiving  antenna  by  a  distant  transmitter  may  be  the  resultant 
of  two  or  three  separate  waves  each  propagated  over  a  different  path.  If 
two  waves  arrive  over  paths  differing  in  length  by  an  odd  number  of  half 
wavelengths  the  resulting  180°  phase  difference  causes  maximum  cancella- 
tion. On  the  other  hand  if  the  paths  differ  in  length  by  an  integral  mul- 
tiple of  whole  wavelengths  the  waves  arrive  in-phase  and  maximum  rein- 
forcement results.  The  difference  in  path  lengths  may  at  times  be  as  great 
as  500  to  1500  kilometers  (delay  times  of  2  to  5  milliseconds)  which  in  the 
H.F.  region  corresponds  to  thousands  of  wavelengths.  Under  these  maxi- 
mum conditions  waves  at  one  frequency  may  arrive  in  phase  while  waves  at  a 
frequency  a  few  hundred  cycles  away  may  arrive  in  phase  opposition.  Since 
the  path  lengths  are  constantly  changing,  the  transmission  at  a  given  fre- 
quency is  subject  to  wide  variations  in  amplitude  and  phase  with  time. 
When  the  difference  in  path  lengths  is  not  great  enough  to  cause  frequencies 
in  one  portion  of  a  communication  channel  to  fade  differently  from  those  in 
another  portion  the  term  ''non-selective"  or  "flat"  fading  is  applied.  When 
the  difference  in  path  lengths  becomes  great  enough  to  cause  considerable 
amplitude  or  phase  distortion  over  the  transmission  band  the  term  "selec- 
tive" fading  is  used.  Since  the  propagation  paths  existing  at  a  given 
moment  vary  for  different  antenna  sites,  the  fading  patterns  obtained  from 
two  or  three  antennas  separated  by  several  wavelengths  usually  show  a 


294  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

considerable  phase  difference  so  that  a  given  frequency  is  not  Hkely  to  fade 
into  the  noise  level  at  all  antennas  simultaneously.  By  employing  separate 
receivers  for  each  antenna  and  suitably  combining  or  selecting  the  demodu- 
lated outputs,  a  system  is  obtained  which  is  much  less  susceptible  to  fading. 
Such  a  method  is  called  space  diversity  reception.  Inasmuch  as  fading  over 
a  given  combination  of  paths  is  highly  selective  with  respect  to  frequency 
much  the  same  effect  is  obtained  by  frequency  diversity  reception.  When 
this  method  is  employed  the  intelligence  is  transmitted  on  two  or  more  fre- 
quencies simultaneously,  and  then  received  by  separate  receivers  from  a 
single  antenna  and  the  resulting  demodulated  signals  combined  or  selected 
as  for  space  diversity. 

In  te'egraph  transmission  large  differences  in  delay  over  two  separate 
propagation  paths  cause  the  telegraph  signal  transitions  to  arrive  at  different 
instants  over  the  two  paths.  Thus,  there  are  intervals  of  overlap  when  a 
marking  condition  is  received  over  one  path  and  a  spacing  condition  over  a 
second  path.  When  two  components  of  nearly  equal  amplitude  arrive  at 
nearly  180°  phase  difference  a  signal  transition  may  involve  large  and  sudden 
amplitude  and  phase  changes.  The  resulting  transients  in  the  bandpass 
networks  of  the  receiving  equipment  may  cause  fortuitous  distortions  con- 
siderably greater  than  the  difference  in  delay  times  over  the  two  paths. 
The  wider  the  pass  band  of  the  receiving  system  the  shorter  the  duration  of 
these  fortuitous  transients  and  hence  the  less  the  distortion.  This  phe- 
nomenon is  one  of  the  determining  factors  in  the  selection  of  bandwidth  and 
frequency  shift  to  be  used  in  a  given  application  of  FS  telegraphy.  It 
becomes  of  increasing  importance  when  the  circuits  are  long  and  at  higher 
signaling  speeds  such  as  are  used  in  time-division  multiplex  methods. 

In  an  AM  system  the  effect  of  large  differences  in  path  lengths  is  usually  a 
filling  in  of  the  spacing  intervals  with  resulting  marking  bias.  In  an  FS 
system  the  overlap  time  and  associated  transients  may  add  to  either  mark- 
ing or  spacing  intervals  in  a  random  fashion  depending  on  the  amplitude  and 
phase  conditions  at  each  transition.  The  overlapping  of  the  mark  and  space 
frequencies  in  FS  transmission  can  sometimes  be  heard  in  an  AM  receiver  as 
short  pips  of  audio  tone  at  each  transition,  the  audio  tone  being  the  beat 
between  the  two  frequencies. 

Use  of  Superimposed  Phase  Modulation 

Superimposed  phase  modulation  has  sometimes  been  employed  as  a 
simple  means  for  achieving  a  certain  amount  of  frequency  diversity  both  in 
AM  and  FS  telegraph  systems.  This  consists  in  causing  the  radiated  signal 
to  oscillate  continuously  through  a  small  phase  angle  at  a  rate  relatively 
high  compared  to  the  dotting  speed.  Phase  modulation  spreads  the  energy 
of  the  signal  over  a  wider  frequency  band  so  that  the  complete  loss  of  the 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


295 


signal  through  selective  fading  becomes  less  probable.  The  spectra  gen- 
erated by  sinusoidal  phase  modulation  of  1.0,  1.4,  and  2.0  radians  are  shown 
in  Fig.  34.  Most  of  the  energy  is  seen  to  be  concentrated  in  the  carrier  and 
hrst  order  sidebands.  Less  than  1.0  radian  of  modulation  results  in  too 
little  amplitude  of  the  sidebands,  while  more  than  1.5  radians  results  in  too 
wide  spread  of  energy  outside  the  first  order  sidebands.     The  center  three 


1.0 

UNMODULATED   CARRIER^ 

1.0   RADIAN 

0.8 

- 

0.6 

- 

0.4 

- 

0.2 

- 

, 

0 

-     1 

1     . 

1.0 

1.4    RADIANS 

0.8 

- 

0.6 

1 

0.4 

0.2 

- 

0 

1.0 
0.8 

2.0  RADIANS 

0.6 

- 

0.4 

- 

0.2 

0 

.     1 

1     . 

4         3         2         1  C  I         2         3        4 

ORDER   OF  SIDEBAND 

Fig.  34. — Frequency  spectra  for  sinusoidal  phase  modulation. 

components  are  equal  at  about  1.4  radians.  In  the  case  of  FS  the  phase 
modulation  frequency  appears  as  a  variation  in  amplitude  of  the  signals  from 
the  discriminator.  For  AM  no  additional  ampUtude  variation  is  caused  by 
the  phase  modulation  if  there  is  no  selective  attenuation  in  the  medium, 
but  if  such  exists  the  phase  modulation  frequency  or  a  multiple  thereof 
appears  in  the  rectified  signal.  To  permit  these  unwanted  amplitude  varia- 
tions to  be  removed  by  the  low-pass  filter  so  as  not  to  break  up  the  signals, 
the  phase  modulating  frequency  should  preferably  be  ten  or  more  times  the 
maximum  signaling  frequency. 


296  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

A  test  of  superimposed  phase  modulation  on  FS  signals  was  made  over  a 
radio  circuit  approximately  200  miles  in  length.  A  frequency  shift  of  850 
cycles,  and  one  radian  of  200-cycle  phase  modulation,  was  used.  A  60- 
word-per  minute  test  sentence  was  transmitted  and  received  without  space 
diversity.  It  was  found  over  a  period  of  several  hours  that  the  phase  modu- 
lation, on  the  average,  gave  a  decrease  in  printed  errors  of  about  50%  when 
the  error  rate  was  in  the  proximity  of  1  to  2%.  For  short  intervals  the  re- 
duction in  errors  was  often  considerably  greater.  The  use  of  200-cycle 
phase  modulation  when  space  diversity  is  used  provides  little  or  no  improve- 
ment and  is  therefore  undesirable. 

A  more  effective  way  of  employing  phase  modulation  with  FS  signals 
would  be  to  use  a  phase  swing  of  db  1.4  radians  at  a  frequency  of  2  to  3  times 
the  frequency  shift  and  to  demodulate  separately  the  three  major  com- 
ponents of  the  signal,  thus  obtaining  in  effect  a  triple-frequency  diversity 
system.  This  of  course  involves  quite  a  wide  transmitted  band,  but  it 
might  be  of  use  in  cases  where  space  diversity  is  impossible,  such  as  on 
board  ships.  When  a  space  diversity  arrangement  is  feasible  it  is  much  to 
be  preferred. 

Diversity  Operation 

To  obtain  reliable  operation  in  the  H.F.  range  it  is  common  practice  to 
employ  space  diversity  reception.  The  use  of  frequency  diversity,  with  the 
increase  of  transmitted  power  and  greater  frequency  space  required,  is  sel- 
dom justified  if  space  diversity  reception  can  be  arranged.  For  AM  radio 
telegraph,  double  or  triple-space  diversity  receiving  arrangements  are 
frequently  used.  Since  an  FS  signal  generally  covers  more  frequency 
space,  it  is  even  more  likely  to  be  mutilated  by  selective  fading  than  an 
AM  signal.  It  has  been  found,  however,  that  a  double-space  diversity  sys- 
tem for  FS  signals  usually  gives  sufficient  diversity  action  provided  it  is  of  a 
type  that  p>ermits  switching  between  channels  at  signaling  speed  without 
causing  appreciable  distortion.  This  is  necessary  since  it  is  a  frequent 
occurrence  that  the  mark  of  one  channel  may  fade,  leaving  a  good  space, 
while  the  opposite  may  occur  on  the  second  channel.  Since  an  FS  system 
can  accept  rapid  level  changes,  the  main  purpose  of  diversity  methods  is  to 
insure  that  both  the  mark  and  space  portions  of  the  signal  will  be  received 
above  the  noise  level.  In  the  case  of  AM  telegraph,  since  it  cannot  accept 
rapid  level  changes,  diversity  operation  is  important  not  only  in  keeping  the 
signal  above  the  noise  but  also  in  averaging  out  some  of  the  rapid  level 
changes.  For  this  reason  AM  systems  usually  show  considerable  improve- 
ment in  going  from  double  to  triple  diversity.  It  would  be  expected  that  a 
like  change  would  show  much  less  improvement  in  an  FS  system. 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  297 

Diversity  Channel  Selection 

The  method  employed  to  combine  or  select  the  channels  of  a  diversity- 
system  is  of  great  importance.  For  an  AM  system  the  relatively  simple 
method  of  using  a  common  load  circuit  for  the  diode  detectors  of  the  diver- 
sity channels  is  generally  used.  By  deriving  a  common  AVC  voltage  from 
the  combined  output  and  by  properly  adjusting  the  receiver  sensitivities  a 
fairly  constant  output  is  obtained.  The  parallel  connection  of  the  diode 
detectors  causes  the  stronger  signal  to  effectively  block  the  weaker  signal 
thus  giving  a  fairly  sharp  diversity  selection  characteristic.  The  problem 
of  combining  the  diversity  channels  of  an  FS  system  is  more  complicated 
mainly  because  of  the  amplitude  limiting.  If  amplitude  limiting  is  used  in 
each  diversity  channel  before  demodulation,  the  resulting  constant  ampli- 
tude signals  convey  no  information  as  to  their  relative  amplitudes  as  re- 
ceived from  the  antennas.  Any  diversity  selection  must  then  be  obtained 
by  some  indirect  method.  It  is  necessary  to  furnish  some  selecting  device 
since  the  noise  from  a  faded  channel,  if  added  directly  to  a  good  signal  from 
another  channel,  will  cause  high  distortion. 

In  an  early  frequency  shift  system  employing  a  two-bandpass  filter  dis- 
criminator (shown  previously  in  Fig.  17)  it  was  found  that  for  a  poor  sig- 
nal-to-noise condition  the  sum  of  the  outputs  of  the  mark  and  space  rec- 
tifiers increased  above  that  for  a  good  signal-to-noise  condition.  This 
increase  was  utilized  to  suppress  the  output  of  the  poorer  channel  and  em- 
phasize that  of  the  better  channel.  Although  neither  the  degree  of  diversity 
selection  nor  the  speed  of  response  was  as  good  as  might  be  desired,  fairly 
satisfactory  results  were  obtained. 

Another  method  which  has  been  used  involves  the  derivation  of  control 
currents  or  voltages  proportional  to  the  amplitudes  of  the  incoming  signals 
which  in  turn  select  the  better  diversity  channel  by  some  type  of  gate  action. 
The  time  constants  of  the  control  circuits  must  be  low  enough  to  permit 
switching  at  signaling  speed  without  introducing  considerable  distortion. 
The  gate  circuits  must  also  be  of  a  type  which  does  not  introduce  interfering 
transients  or  otherwise  allow  the  control  voltages  or  currents  to  interfere 
with  the  signal.  This  method  permits  very  sharp  diversity  selection  and 
has  the  capability  of  approximating  ideal  results  although  it  becomes  some- 
what involved  in  a  practical  form. 

A  considerably  simpler  method  has  been  used  in  some  of  the  more  recent 
FS  terminals.  It  is  based  on  the  use  of  a  single-amplitude-limiter  through 
which  pass  the  signals  of  both  diversity  channels.  This  is  made  possible 
by  arranging  the  two  signals  at  the  input  to  the  limiter  to  be  at  different 
frequencies.  At  the  output  of  the  limiter  the  two  signals  are  separately 
demodulated  and  then  combined.     When  one  of  the  signals  is  considerably 


29& 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


greater  in  amplitude  than  the  other  at  the  input  to  the  Umiter  the  relative 
difference  in  level  is  increased  by  an  additional  amount  of  about  6  db  at  the 
limiter  output.  The  limiter  output  may  be  considered  as  the  stronger  sig- 
nal frequency-modulated  by  the  weaker  signal.  For  small  modulation 
indices  the  amplitude  of  the  first  order  sideband  is  approximately  one-half 
the  modulation  index  thus  explaining  the  6  db  added  difference  in  level  at 
the  limiter  output.  As  the  input  levels  approach  equality  the  added  level 
difference  decreases  to  zero.  A  block  diagram  indicating  the  arrangement  of 
such  a  diversity  system  is  shown  in  Fig.  35.  Tests  were  made  of  both  paral- 
lel and  series  connections  of  the  two  discriminator  outputs.  With  a  parallel 
connection  the  discriminator  having  the  greater  output  blocks  the  rectifier 
output  of  the  other  discriminator  and  thus  gives  a  sharp  diversity  selection 
characteristic.     However,  the  level  ratio  of  the  channels  at  which  a  switch 


ANTENNA 

U 


LU 


RADIO         FREQUENCY       INPUT 
RECEIVER     CONVERTER     FILTER 


DISCRIMINATOR 
AND    RECTIFIER 

fA 


COMMON 
LIMITER 


^       B       -■ 


LOW- 

PASS 

FILTER 

D-C 
AMPLI- 
FIER 

D-C 

► 

} 

TELEGRAPH 
SIGNALS 

TONE 

—*- 

KEYER 

V-F 

Fig.  35. — Block  diagram  of  dual-diversity  FS  receiving  system  using  a  common  limiter. 

takes  place  is  affected  not  only  by  the  ratio  at  the  limiter  input  but  also  by 
frequency  drift  and  discriminator  slope.  With  the  series  connection  only 
the  input  level  ratio  at  the  limiter  input  affects  the  diversity  switching; 
this  arrangement  was  therefore  selected  as  the  preferred  method  although  its 
selection  characteristic  is  not  sharp.  The  series  and  parallel  combining 
characteristics  are  shown  in  Figs.  36  and  37. 

Various  tests  were  made  on  a  terminal  having  a  1500-cycle  bandwidth 
and  using  the  series  combining  method  to  determine  the  signal-to-noise 
characteristics  under  different  conditions  of  diversity  fading.  A  frequency 
shift  of  850  cycles  was  used  and  the  midband  frequencies  of  the  two  diver- 
sity channels  at  the  common  limiter  input  were  v30  and  35  Kc.  Figure  38 
shows  the  distortion  versus  signal-to-noise  ratio  characteristics  of  each 
channel  separately  and  in  diversity  combination  for  various  relative  level 
conditions  of  the  two  channels.  During  diversity  operation  equal  noise 
levels  were  maintained  in  the  two  channels  and  various  combinations  of 
level  differences  of  the  two  channels  were  preserved  as  the  whole  signal 
level  combination  was  varied.     The  level  differentials  are  indicated  in 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY 


299 


the  figure  for  each  curve.  The  signal- to-noi^e  level  scales  refer  to  the  highest 
level  portion  of  the  diversity  signal.  Since  the  amplitude  modulator  which 
was  used  to  simulate  the  selective  fading  did  not  produce  phase  shifts  or 


■20      -16 


-12        -8         -4  0  4  8  )2 

LEVEL    RATIO  (A/b)   "^    DECIBELS 


20 


Fig.  36. — Diversity  combination  characteristic  obtained  by  series  addition  of  discrimi- 
nator outputs — levels  measured  at  output  of  400  kc  I.F.  amplifier. 


30 


20 


■20 


-30 


■ 

A-fB 

^"—^.^^^ 

a. 

\ 

.  < 

5 

" 

^^ 

/\b 

"«r 

^-' 

\/ 

'B 

O 

•  V 

z 

A 

-^ 

/    '' 

"^ 

Q. 

-  10 

"^^^^AH-B 

1        1 

-16       -12         -8-4  0  4  8  12        16 

LEVEL    RATIO    (^/q)    IN   DECIBELS 

Fig.  37. — Diversity  combination  characteristic  obtained  by  parallel  addition  of  dis- 
criminator outputs — levels  measured  at  output  of  400  kc  I.F.  amplifier. 

transmission  delays  as  would  actually  exist  over  H.F.  radio  circuits  the  actual 
distortions  shown  by  the  curves  are  optimistic. 

The  ideal  diversity  selection  circuit  should  theoretically  give  a  signal- 
to-noise  characteristic  identical  to  that  of  a  single  channel  under  the  signal- 
to-noise  condition  corresponding  to  the  signal  of  the  best  momentary  re- 
ception. It  will  be  seen  that  the  test  results  of  Fig.  38  approach  this  limit 
within  2  or  3  db  at  a  peak  distortion  of  20%.     Part  of  this  difference  is 


300 


hELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


due  to  the  dissimilar  bandpass  characteristics  of  the  two  channels  of  the 
experimental  unit  used  for  the  tests  and  part  due  to  the  lack  of  an  extremely 
sharp  diversity  selection.  It  should  be  pointed  out  that  the  conditions  under 
which  the  theoretical  maximum  diversity  signal-to-noise  condition  may  be 
reached  are  very  hard  to  obtain  in  practice.     If  the  noise  levels  in  the  two 


1       1       1       1       1       1       1 
A  +  B 

\ 

-<— Ma&Sa-3DB 

\ 

Mb8.Sb-3DB 

ll 

\ 

A+B 

I' 

\V-Ma 

&Sb-5DB 

\ 

\ 

&Sb-25DB 

Sa 

&Mb 

-25DB- 

^ 

Sa 

1 

1 

-5DB- 

1      1      1 

1  \  \                     A+B 

fr'VV Ma-25DB 

- 

\w\-\ MB-25DB 

\\    y\  — Sa-25DB 

U    \   Y  Sb-25DB 

1 1  _L..L..J_,1 — L_l_ 

■»> 

15    5  10  15   5 

SIGNAL-TO- NOISE   RATIO  IN    DECIBELS 


Fig.  38.-^Peak  distortion  versus  signal-to-noise  ratio  characteristics  for  dual -diversity 
operation  with  a  common  limiter.  Signal-to-noise  measured  at  output  of  400  kc  I.F. 
amplifier. 

channels  are  not  equal,  and  if  the  diversity  selecting  method  does  not  at  all 
times  exclusively  select  the  channel  with  the  greater  signal,  the  distortion 
characteristic  will  deteriorate  accordingly.  Because  the  AVC  sensitivities 
of  two  radio  receivers  may  differ  considerably  the  noise  levels  cannot  be 
maintained  closely  the  same  and  usually  no  provision  is  made  for  determin- 
ing the  noise  level  except  by  ear.  The  slightly  better  diversity  action  which 
can  theoretically  be  obtained  is  therefore  felt  to  be  of  doubtful  usefulness 
under  actual  op>erating  conditions.     The  common  limiter  method  has  the 


I 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  301 

advantage  of  being  simple  in  that  the  diversity  action  is  obtained  in  the 
transmission  circuits  directly  and  no  added  switching  circuits  or  adjustments 
are  required.  Tests  of  this  type  of  diversity  selection  in  the  field  have  indi- 
cated a  marked  superiority  over  earlier  FS  terminal  equipment. 

In  connection  with  the  use  of  a  common  Umiter  care  must  be  taken  in  the 
selection  of  the  two-channel  frequencies.  Frequencies  having  nearly 
integral  ratios  such  as  3 : 5  and  5 : 7  produce  disturbing  amplitude  modula- 
tion of  the  demodulated  signal.  The  frequencies  should  be  chosen  so  as  to 
avoid  low  integral  ratios;  then  all  amplitude  modulations  are  negligible  or 
easily  filtered  out.  Where  frequency  drift  is  to  be  allowed  for,  the  fre- 
quencies should  be  chosen  so  as  not  to  approach  a  low  integral  ratio  at  any 
place  in  the  expected  drift  range. 

If  the  radio  receivers  associated  with  a  space  diversity  FS  system  have 
automatic  gain  control  it  must  be  a  common  control  so  the  receivers  will 
change  gain  equally.  The  use  of  common  AVC  prevents  overloading  of 
the  receivers  as  the  received  signal  strength  varies.  If  no  common  AVC 
is  available  the  receivers  should  be  operated  in  the  manual  gain-control 
condition. 

Conclusions 

General  Comparison  of  FS  and  AM  Carrier  Telegraphy 

The  foregoing  sections  have  compared  the  characteristics  of  AM  and  FS 
carrier  telegraph  transmission  under  various  conditions.  Whether  or  not 
FS  would  prove  to  be  the  preferable  method  for  a  specific  communication 
use  depends  largely  on  the  transmission  medium  and  the  quality  of  trans- 
mission desired.  As  regards  frequency  space  requirements,  both  methods 
provide  essentially  the  same  signaling  speed  capabiUty  for  a  given  band- 
width. 

As  to  the  abiUty  to  transmit  through  noise,  FS  has  an  advantage  of  3  to 
4  db  at  distortions  approaching  the  failure  point  when  equal  bandwidths 
are  compared.  At  lower  distortions  the  advantage  of  FS  is  6  db  or  more 
so  that  it  is  attractive  in  this  respect  for  tandem  operation  of  several  tele- 
graph sections  where  regeneration  of  signals  is  not  practiced.  When  fre- 
quency space  permits  wider  bands,  with  correspondingly  increased  fre- 
quency shifts,  the  signal-to-noise  advantage  of  FS  over  AM  increases  for 
low  noise  levels.  Wide  band  FS  therefore  provides  a  means  of  obtaining 
higher  quality  circuits  if  the  noise  level  is  not  too  great. 

The  AM  method  is  basically  less  susceptible  to  frequency  variations 
than  is  the  FS  method.  However,  as  has  been  illustrated,  frequency  drift 
can  be  compensated  for  by  d-c.  elimination  so  as  to  make  FS  comparable 
to  AM  in  this  respect. 


302  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

FS  transmission  is  essentially  immune  from  effects  of  non-selective  level 
variation,  even  when  extremely  rapid,  and  in  this  characteristic  displays 
its  most  outstanding  advantage  over  AM. 

Operation  Over  Wire  Circuits 

A  wire  circuit  usually  provides  a  transmission  medium  having  a  low  noise 
level  with  slow  and  relatively  small  variations  in  attenuation.  Such  cir- 
cuits, when  equipped  with  suitable  automatic  gain  control,  allow  stable 
operation  with  AM  telegraphy  and  but  little  improvement  could  probably 
be  obtained  by  using  FS.  The  choice  between  AM  and  FS  under  such  rela- 
tively ideal  conditions  becomes  one  of  economic  considerations  of  the  ter- 
minal equipment  and  carrier  supply.  However,  when  FS  is  applied  to 
multichannel  systems  the  problem  of  interchannel  interference  requires 
attention.  For  wire  circuits  having  high  noise  levels  or  sudden  changes  in 
attenuation  the  use  of  FS  instead  of  AM  provides  considerable  improvement 
and  in  severe  cases  the  FS  method  may  be  a  necessity  for  satisfactory  opera- 
tion. Wide  band  FS  operation  with  its  sharper  breaking  distortion-versus- 
noise-level  characteristic  gives  a  low  value  of  rms-to-peak  distortion  which 
would  be  especially  advantageous  for  tandem  operation.  However,  the 
necessary  frequency  space  for  wide-band  operation  is  not  usually  economi- 
cally justified  for  wire  line  operation. 

Operation  Over  Radio  Circuits 

For  operation  over  radio  circuits  providing  stable  conditions  similar  to 
those  on  wire  circuits  the  FS  method  does  not  show  a  great  advantage  over 
the  AM  method.  In  the  case  of  long  distance  telegraphy  in  the  H.F.  range, 
however,  FS  shows  a  marked  advantage  over  AM.  This  is  because  of  the 
rapid  fading  and  high  noise  conditions  which  commonly  prevail  in  the 
H.F.  region.  The  amount  of  rapid  variation  in  marking  level  that  an  AM 
system  can  accommodate  is  less  than  the  difference  between  marking  and 
spacing  levels  that  an  FS  system  can  tolerate.  In  the  worst  case  of  selective 
fading  the  level  differences  between  the  mark  and  space  frequencies  might 
approach  values  equal  to  the  short  time  level  swings  of  a  single  frequency, 
but  in  general  would  be  less.  A  given  condition  of  selective  fading  thus 
causes  less  distortion  in  an  FS  system  than  in  an  AM  system.  FS  allows 
the  use  of  narrow  bands  without  much  loss  in  signal  quality  in  the  presence 
of  fading,  whereas  AM  does  not.  FS  therefore  is  essential  for  satisfactory 
operation  of  closely  spaced  narrow  band  H.F.  radio  channels.  Where  fre- 
quency space  is  not  restricted  and  wider  bands  are  used  to  permit  consider- 
able frequency  drift,  the  improvement  afforded  by  FS  over  AM  is  materially 
less.     To  obtain  optimum  results  from  an  AM  system,  however,  requires 


FREQUENCY  SHIFT  TELEGRAPHY  303 

more  careful  adjustment  and  more  attention  than  does  an  FS  system.  This 
is  partly  due  to  the  amplitude  limiter  in  the  FS  system  which  results  in  a 
constant  amplitude  of  signal  from  the  discriminator  and  partly  due  to  the 
fact  that  an  FS  signal  is  no  more  subject  to  noise  interference  during  the 
spacing  condition  than  during  the  marking  condition.  Therefore  the  operat- 
ing point  on  the  demodulated  wave  may  be  set  and  left  for  long  intervals 
even  though  transmission  conditions  vary  widely.  This  greater  ease  in 
maintaining  good  adjustment  of  the  equipment  probably  accounts  for  some 
of  the  apparent  improvement  in  changing  from  an  AM  to  an  FS  system. 

It  should  be  noted  that  a  system  may  fail  either  because  of  level  variations 
well  above  the  noise  level  or  because  of  the  signal  becoming  submerged 
in  noise.  If  a  system  fails  because  it  can  accept  only  moderate  level  varia- 
tions, an  increase  in  transmitted  power  will  provide  no  improvement  since 
the  level  variations  will  remain  the  same  as  before.  On  the  other  hand,  a 
system  which  can  accept  very  wide  variations  in  level  will  show  improve- 
ment upon  increasing  transmitted  power  up  to  the  point  where  no  failures 
occur  due  to  an  unfavorable  signal-to-noise  ratio. 

The  over-all  improvement  obtained  in  changing  from  AM  to  FS  radio 
telegraph  is  sometimes  expressed  as  a  ratio  of  transmitted  powers  required 
to  give  equivalent  transmission  results  over  the  two  systems.  Such  a  ratio 
fluctuates  widely  depending  upon  the  prevailing  conditions.  With  little 
fading  the  improvement  ratio  will  be  mainly  due  to  the  better  signal-to- 
noise  obtained  with  FS  and  may  be  less  than  5  db.  Under  severe  fading 
conditions  no  amount  of  power  may  give  good  results  with  AM  while  FS 
may  be  satisfactory. '  Thus  the  power  ratio  would  become  infinite.  By 
making  a  long-time  comparison  an  average  power  ratio  figure  may  be 
found  which  gives  equal  average  error  rates  in  the  printed  copy  from  each 
system.  Such  tests^  between  a  triple  space  diversity  AM  system  and  a 
double  space  diversity  FS  system  have  indicated  a  power  ratio  of  11  db 
in  favor  of  the  latter  when  the  error  rate  was  0.1  to  0.5  per  cent. 

When  the  two  systems  are  thus  made  equal  by  adjustment  of  transmitted 
power,  more  errors  due  to  the  signal  becoming  submerged  in  noise  occur  in 
the  FS  system  to  compensate  for  a  larger  number  of  errors  in  the  AM  system 
due  to  rapid  level  changes.  Often  the  reason  for  changing  a  radio  telegraph 
system  from  AM  to  FS  is  to  increase  the  reliability  of  the  circuit  and  not 
just  to  save  transmitted  power.  To  insure  a  definite  improvement  in  such 
cases  the  carrier  level  should  not  be  decreased  more  than  about  6  db. 

References 

1.  Certain  Topics  in  Telegraph  Transmission  Theorv,  H.  Nvquist,  Trans,  of  A.I.E.E. 

Vol.  47,  April  1928,  pp.  617-644. 

2.  Frequency  Modulation,  Balth.  van  der  Pol,  Proc.  ofl.R.E.,  Vol.  18,  July  1930,  p.  1202. 


304  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

3.  Measurement  of  Telegraph  Transmission,  H.  Nyquist,  R.  B.  Shanck,  and  S.  I.  Cory, 

Trans.  ofA.I.E.E.,  Vol.  46,  Feb.  1927,  pp.  367-376. 

4.  Frequency  Modulation  Noise  Characteristics,  M.  G.  Crosby,  Proc.  of  I.R.E.,  Vol.  25, 

April  1937,  p.  472-514. 

5.  Performance  Characteristics  of  Various  Carrier  Telegraph  Methods,  T.  A.  Jones,  K. 

W.  Pfleger,  Bell  Sys.  Tech.  Jour.,  Vol.  25,  pp.  483-531,  July  1946. 

6.  Transients  in  Frequency  Modulation,  H.  Salinger,  Proc.  of  I.R.E.,  August  1942,  pp. 

378-383. 

7.  Observations  and  Comparisons  on  Radio  Telegraph  Signaling  by  Frequency  Shift 

and  On-Off  Keying,  H.  O.  Peterson,  J.  B.  Attwood,  H.  E.  Goldstine,  G.  E.  Hansell, 
R.  E.  Schock,  RCA  Review,  March  1946. 


Reflections  from  Circular  Bends  in  Rectangular 
Wave  Guides — Matrix  Theory 

By  S.  O.  RICE 

A  method  of  computing  reflections  produced  by  circular  bends  in  rectangular 
wave  guides  is  presented.  The  procedure  employs  the  theory  of  matrices.  Al- 
though the  matrix  equations  are  quite  simple,  a  considerable  amount  of  calculation 
is  necessary  before  quantitative  results  may  be  obtained.  Fortunately,  the  ap- 
proximate formulas  pertaining  to  gentle  bends  hold  surprisingly  well  for  rather 
sharp  bends.  These  formulas  are  obtained  by  a  limiting  process  from  the  matrix 
equations.  The  approximate  formula  for  reflection  from  an  H-bend  (in  which  the 
magnetic  vector  lies  in  the  plane  of  the  bend)  generalizes  an  earlier  result  due  to 
R.  E.  Marshak.     The  corresponding  formula  for  the  E-bend  appears  to  be  new. 

Introduction 

A  NUMBER  of  investigators  have  studied  the  propagation  of  electro- 
-^  ■*'  magnetic  waves  in  a  bent  pipe  of  rectangular  cross-section,  the  bend 
being  along  an  arc  of  a  circle.  H.  Buchholz\  S.  Morimoto^  and  W.  J. 
Albersheim  have  employed  Bessel  functions  to  express  the  field  in  the  bend. 
The  form  assumed  by  the  field  when  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  bend 
becomes  large  has  been  obtained  by  K.  Riess*  and  R.  E.  Marshak^  who  use 
approximations  suited  to  this  case.  Marshak  also  obtains  expressions  for 
various  reflection  and  transmission  coefficients.  A  discussion  of  the  subject 
using  rather  simple  but  approximate  analysis  is  given  on  pages  324-330  of 
a  text  book  by  S.  A.  Schelkunoff.  The  Bessel  function  approach  is  also 
sketched  in  the  same  section. 

Here  we  study  the  disturbance  produced  when  a  wave  goes  around  a 
circular  bend  (of  some  given  angle)  in  a  rectangular  wave  guide,  the  guide 
being  straight  on  either  side  of  the  bend.  Especial  attention  is  paid  to  the 
dominant  mode  reflection  coefficients  gTo  and  doi  corresponding  to  H-bends 
and  E-bends,  respectively.  As  equations  (4.2-6)  and  (4.4-4)  show,  these 
reflection  coefficients  (which  are  of  the  nature  of  voltage  rather  than  power 
reflection  coefficients)  vary  inversely  as  the  square  of  the  radius  of  curva- 
ture of  the  bend  when  the  bend  is  gentle.  The  substance  of  (4.2-6)  has 
been  given  by  Marshak**  for  the  important  case  in  which  only  the  dominant 
mode  is  propagated  and  the  angle  of  the  bend  not  too  small. 

When  the  bend  is  so  sharp  that  the  formulas  mentioned  above  do  not 
apply  the  reflection  coefficients  may  be  computed  from  the  rather  simple 
looking  matrix  expressions  (2.3-3)  together  with  (2.3-4).  However,  their 
appearance  is  deceptive  and,  as  is  shown  by  the  numerical  work  in  Part  V, 
considerable  labor  is  necessary  to  obtain  an  answer. 

305 


306  ISELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  gentle  bend  formulas  were  obtained  from  the  matrix  equations  by  the 
Hmiting  process  described  in  Part  III.  It  seems  hkely  that  the  matrix 
method,  which  is  similar  to  the  method  used  in  an  earlier  paper  on  trans- 
mission line  equations,  may  be  applied  to  other  wave  guide  problems. 
With  this  thought  in  mind,  the  development  of  Parts  II  and  III  has  been 
couched  in  general  terms. 

The  matrices  used  in  the  present  theory  are  of  infinite  order  since  the 
guide  may  support  an  infinite  number  of  modes  of  propagation.  This  fact 
makes  it  difficult  to  justify  all  the  steps  in  our  analysis,  and  we  do  not  at- 
tempt to  do  so.*  Despite  this  lack  of  rigor,  I  believe  that  the  procedures 
given  here  lead  to  the  correct  results  since  they  yield,  for  gentle  bends, 
expressions  obtained  by  Buchholz  and  Marshak.  Moreover,  although 
numerical  results  tabulated  in  Part  V  were  obtained  by  using  matrices  of 
only  the  second  and  third  order,  they  indicate  a  rapid  convergence  as  the 
matrix  order  is  increased. 

PART  I 
PROPAGATION  OF  WAVES  IN  GUIDE 

1.1  Propagation  in  a  Straight  Wave  Guide 

Rather  general  expressions  for  the  electric  and  magnetic  intensities  E  and 
F  in  a  field  are  (see  pp.  127-128  of  Reference  ) 

E  =  —  ioifiA  +  - —  grad  div  A  —  curl  B 
icoe 

(1.1-1) 

H  =  curl  A  +  - —  grad  div  B  —  imeB 

tCOfl 

The  field  is  assumed  to  vary  with  the  time  t  as  e'"',  co  is  the  radian  fre- 
quency, n  the  permeability  and  e  the  dielectric  constant  (for  free  space 
fx  =  1.257  X  10~^  henries/meter,  e  =  8.854  X  10"'^  farads/meter).  The 
vector  potentials  A  and  B  satisfy  the  wave  equations 

V^A  =  a' A,         V'75  =  (t'B 

V    =  Laplacian  operator  (1-1~2) 

2  2 

a    =  0)  fie 

In  dealing  with  bends,  it  is  convenient  to  choose  A  and  B  normal  to  the 
plane  of  the  bend.  In  our  notation,  this  plane  is  always  taken  to  be  the  x, 
z  plane  so  that  /I  and  B  are  parallel  to  the  y  axis.     The  z  axis  is  parallel 

*  Similar  questions  arise  in  the  rigorous  treatment  of  an  infinite  set  of  linear 
equations.    A  discussion  of  this  subject  is  given  in  Chap.  TTI  of  Reference*. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


307 


to  the  guide  axis  and,  for  the  straight  guide  of  the  section,  the  guide  walls 
are  sections  of  the  planes  x  =  0,  x  =  a,  y  =  0,  j  =  ft. 

Thus,  a  general  wave  traveling  in  the  positive  z  direction  may  be  de- 
scribed by  the  two  functions  (which  represent  the  magnitudes  of  A  and  B) 

A    =    2L     ^in    e~  "'"*    sin  {irmx/ a)cos  {irny/b) 

(1.1-3) 


m 


1,2,3, 


B  =  Y.  dt    -^' 


»  =  0,1,2,... 

cos  {Trmx/a)sm  (wny/b) 


m 


(1.1-4) 
0,  1,  2,  ...  ;        ;.=  1,2,3,  ... 

where  the  coefficients  gir»  and  d^n  are  constants  and  the  plus  signs  indicate 
propagation  in  the  positive  z  direction. 

The  propagation  constant  Tmn  is  obtained  from 


(1.1-5) 


rL  =  ^2  +  {irm/aY  +  {irn/by,  a  =  i2ir/\o, 
Xo  =  wavelength  in  free  space. 

Equation  (1.1-5)  arises  when  the  typical  term  in  (1.1-3)  is  substituted  for  A 
in  the  equation 

;i^  A        ;i^  A        A^  A 

(1.1-6) 


d'A 


a^4     ^^4     

dx'         d'f-         dz^ 


=  a'A 


This  and  a  similar  equation  for  B  are  the  forms  assumed  by  (1.1-2)  for  the 
rectangular  coordinates  of  our  straight  guide. 
The  electric  and  magnetic  intensities  in  the  guide  are  given  by 


(1.1-7) 


which  follow  from  (1.1-1). 

It  is  seen  that  the  wave  is  completely  specified  by  the  gin's  and  diiJs. 
These  may  be  arranged  as  (infinite)  column  matrices  in  any  convenient 
order.     Thus  in  deahng  with  (1.1-3)  and  (1.1-4)  we  may  write 


1    d'A     ,   dB 

a^       1   d'^B 

io3€  dxdy        dz 

H^ 

dz        icofi  dxdy 

Koe  dy^ 

Hy 

.     ^  ^    1    d'B 

to)iJL  dy^ 

^    _    i    d'A        dB 

io3€  dzdy        dx 

H, 

_dA         1    d^B 
dx        icofx  dzdy 

gi- 

'*r 

gto 

do2 

4 

^30 

^    = 

dtz 

+ 

g2l 

•  • 

+ 

gl2^ 

.  • 

(1.1-8) 


308 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


In  our  work  we  shall  consider  only  those  modes  corresponding  to  a  fixed 
value  of  m  (or  of  n)  and  the  order  is  almost  automatically  fixed. 

The  factors  which  determine  the  propagation  of  the  typical  terms  in  the 
summations  (1.1-3)  and  (1.1-4)  for  A  and  B  are 


Ctmniz)    =    gin  ^^"  "*",  ^mn{z)    =    fi«  6    '^ '""  (1.1^9) 

The  column  matrices  obtained  by  arranging  these  quantities  in  the  same 
order  as  in  (1.1-8)  will  be  denoted  by  a{z)  and  18(2).     We  may  write 

^(3)    =    e~'^'  d+ 


a{z)    =    .-^"«  g+, 


(1.1-10) 


whereexp(— zFa)  andexp(— zr^)  are  square  matrices  defined  by  power  series 
each  term  of  which  is  a  square  matrix: 


,-zT 


7-51  +  ^-^ 
1!  ^    2! 


3! 


+ 


(1.1-11) 


/  is  the  unit  matrix  and  F^  is  the  diagonal  matrix" 


r« 


Tio 

0 

0 


0 

0 


0 
0 


(1.1-12) 


in  which  the  order  of  the  diagonal  elements  is  the  same  as  the  order  of  the 
elements  in  the  column  matrix  g^.  Similarly  F^  is  a  diagonal  matrix  whose 
elements  are  Foi,  F02,  Fu,  F03,  •  •  •  ,  the  order  being  fixed  by  ^+.  When  F  is 
replaced  by  Fa  in  (1.1-11)  it  is  easy  to  obtain  Fa,  Fa,  etc.  and  sum  the 
resulting  series  to  obtain 


e-"'  = 


-^-^rio 

0 

0 

0 

^-.r.o 

0 

0 

0 

e 

■zTu 


(1.1-13) 


A  similar  expression  exists  for  exp(— sF^).  The  expression  (1.1-10)  for 
a{z)  is  seen  to  be  true  when  the  square  matrix  (1.1-13)  is  multiplied,  by 
matrix  multiplication,  into  the  colurnn  g+. 

It  turns  out  that  the  field  in  a  circular  bend  (in  a  rectangular  guide)  may 
be  represented  by  a  generalization  of  the  foregoing  expressions.  In  this 
generalization,  which  will  be  studied  in  the  following  sections,  the  square 
matrices  Ya  and  IV  no  longer  have  the  simple  form  of  diagonal  matrices. 

*  That  is,  a  square  matrix  in  which  all  of  the  elements  other  than  those  in  the  principal 
diagonal  are  zero. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  309 

1.2  Propagation  in  a  Circular  Bend 

In  dealing  with  a  circular  bend  we  choose  cylindrical  coordinates  (p,  (p,  y) 
as  shown  in  Fig.  1.  With  these  coordinates  we  associate  new  coordinates, 
shown  in  Figs.  1  and  2,  (x,  y,  z)  which  have  approximately  the  same  signifi- 
cance as  in  the  straight  guide,     z  is  the  distance  measured  along  the  axis  of 


z=o 


Fig.  1 


Fig.  2 

the  guide  (defined  as  the  locus  of  the  centers  of  gravity  of  the  transverse 
cross-sections  of  the  guide),  and  x  and  y  are  the  transverse  coordinates. 

Let  p  =  pi  =  (p2  +  p3)/2  =  P2  +  a/ 2  be  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the 
guide  axis,  and  let  the  origin  of  the  polar  coordinates  be  taken  at  the  center 
of  curvature.  Then  s  is  equal  to  —pup  where  the  minus  sign  is  necessary  to 
make  {x,  y,  z)  a  right-handed  coordinate  system.     Since  the  vertical  (in 


310  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Fig.  1 )  walls  are  to  be  specified  by  x  =  0  and  a:  =  a  we  set  x  =  p  —  pi  +  a/2. 
Thus,  the  two  sets  of  coordinates  are  related  by 

p   =  X  -\-  pi  —  a/2  =  X  -\-  Pi 

<P  =  -  2/pi  (1.2-1) 

y  =  y 

where  pi,  pi  and  a  are  constants. 

We  again  choose  A  and  B  in  (1.1-1)  to  be  parallel  to  the  y  axis.     In  the 
cylindrical  coordinates, 

^J_al4_ia6  _  1  a^l        1    d'B 

iuie  dpdy       p  dip  p  d(p        iccp,  dpdy 

i(jO€p  Oipoy       op  op        to)fjLp  Oipoy 

1     f^  A  1     f)^  R 

Ey  =  -iojiiA  +  -^- VT  ^y  ="  -i(^^B  +  -r—  —  ■ 

to)e  oy^  twfjL  oy^ 


p  dpL    dp  J        p^  5^2 


+  ^  =  <r^^  (1.2-3) 


where  now,  from  (1.1-2),  A  satisfies  the  wave  equation 

ji 

p  dpL    dp  J       p^  5^2        5y2 

and  likewise  for  ^. 

One  method  of  dealing  with  (1.2-3)  which  is  sometimes  used  is  to  assume 

A  =  e^'^  X  (sine  or  cosine  function  of  y)  X  /(p)  (1-2-4) 

where  f(p)  turns  out  to  be  a  Bessel  function  of  order  p  with  its  argument 
proportional  to  p.     However,  we  shall  proceed  in  a  different  direction. 
The  change  of  coordinates  (1.2-1)  transforms  (1.2-2)  into 

fi'     _    ;,     _     1      ^'^      ,    Pl^^       r,  rr  Pi  ^^     >       1      ^'^ 

i<0€  oxdy      p   oz  p    oz        icop.  oxoy 

Ey  =  -toifiA  +  ^-  T-^  Hy  =    -loieB  4-   —  -—  (1.2-^) 

tQ)€  oy^  iu3yL  dy^ 

E. = -£,  =  .^  |!^i  -  f   //.  =  -//, = ^/  +  /'  i;f- 

icocp  ozdy        dx  dx         iwfxp  dzdy 


and  (1.2-3)  into 

& 

dx^    '    dy^    '   p2    522     ■   p  dx 


^"^  +  ^;4  +  P;   ^^  +  1  M  _  /,!  =  0,  (1.2-6) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  311 

where  pi  is  a  constant  and  p  =  -v  +  pi  —  a/2  is  to  be  considered  a  function  of 
.V.     To  solve  (1 .2  6)  and  the  corresponding  equation  for  B  we  assume 

A  =  zl  «mn(3)  sin  (irmx/a)  cos  (irny/b) 

(1.2-7) 
w  =  1,  2,  v3,  •  •  •  ;         //  =  0,  1,  2,  •  •  • 

B  =  z2  /3mr.(s)  COS  (irmx/a)  sin  (irny/b) 

(1.2-8) 
/«  =  0,  1,  2,  •  •  •  ;        w  =  1,  2,  3,  •  •  • 

these  expressions  being  suggested  by  (1.1-3)  and  (1.1-4).  The  expressions 
(1.2-5)  for  the  electric  intensity  show  that  this  choice  of  A  and  B  make  its 
tangential  component  vanish  at  the  walls  of  the  guide.  Thus  the  boundary 
conditions  are  satisfied. 

In  order  to  determine  am„(z)  so  that  the  differential  equation  for  A  is 
satisfied,  we  substitute  (1.2-7)  in  (1.2-6).  The  resulting  left  hand  side  of 
(1.2-6)  may  be  regarded  as  a  function,  say/(.r,  y),  of  x  and  y  with  the  a's 
and  their  derivatives  entering  as  parameters.  We  must  choose  the  a's  so 
as  to  make  this  function  zero.  Relations  which  must  be  satisfied  by  the  a's 
may  be  obtained  by  expanding/(.v,  y)  in  a  double  Fourier  series  for  w^hich  the 
typical  term  is  a  coefficient  times  sin  (irmx/a)  cos  (irny/b),  and  then  setting 
the  coefficient  of  each  term  to  zero.  This  form  of  expansion  is  suggested  by 
(1.2-7).  However,  it  should  be  mentioned  that  such  an  expansion  is  best 
suited  to  a  function  which  vanishes  at  x  =  0  and  .v  =  a,  a  condition  not 
fulfilled  by/(.v,  y)  because  of  the  term  p~^dA/dx  in  (1.2-6).  This  causes  no 
real  trouble  because  our  region  of  representation  runs  only  from  x  =  0  to 
A-  =  a  and  hence  our  series  is  no  worse  than  the  Fourier  sine  series  for  the 
periodic  function  (of  period  2a)  which  is  —  1  for  —  d^  <  .r  <  0  and  +  1  for 
0  <  X  <  a. 

To  carry  out  the  procedure  outlined  above,  we  multiply  (1.2-6)  (after 
putting  in  (1.2-7))  by  sm(irpx/a)  cos(irty/b)  and  integrate  x  from  0  to  a 
and  y  from  0  to  b.     Using  the  expression  (1.1-5)  for  F^n  and  reducing  gives 

00 

-Tl(a,((z)  +   Z  iPprnC^lf.(z)  -  S,ma„Az)]  =  0  (1.2-9) 

m=l 

where  p  may  have  any  one  of  the  values  1,  2, 3,  •  •  •  and  the  double  prime  on 
a  denotes  the  second  derivative  with  respect  to  s.  The  P's  tind  5's  are 
constants  given  by 

P^„.  =  (2/a)  [    (pl/p')  sin  (irpx/a)  sin  (irmx/a)  dx,        (1.2-10) 

•'0 

S^,n  =   —2irma'~''  I     sin  (irpx/a)  cos  (irmx/a)  dx/ p        (1.2-11) 


312  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  evaluation  of  these  integrals  is  discussed  in  Appendix  I.  Thus  (1.2-9) 
is  the  p^^  equation  of  a  set  of  differential  equations  to  be  solved  simul- 
taneously for  ciil{z),  a2t{z),  •  •  •  . 

The  customary  method  of  solving  a  set  of  equations  such  as  (1.2-9)  is  to 
assume  that  all  the  a's  vary  as  e^'  so  that  for  each  ocnliz)  we  may  write 
e^'grnl.  This  leads  to  a  set  of  simultaneous  homogeneous  linear  equations 
for  the  constants  gmt.  In  order  that  these  equations  may  have  a  solution 
the  determinant  of  the  coefficients  must  vanish.  Since  the  only  derivative 
of  oLm({z)  contained  in  (1.2-9)  is  the  second,  7  appears  in  the  determinant 
only  as  7  .  Let  71  j  72 ,  73  ,  •  •  •  be  the  values  of  7  which  cause  the  deter- 
minant to  vanish  and  let  kij ,  hj ,  -  "  be  the  values  of  g\l ,  git,  •  •  •  cor- 
responding to  7  =  7;.  The  ^'s  are  determined  to  within  an  arbitrary 
multiplying  constant  which,  for  the  sake  of  convenience,  is  chosen  so  that 
ku  =  1. 

Thus  one  solution  of  the  differential  equation  (1.2-6)  is 

00 

A  —  e"^^'  cos  {-Klylh)  2  ^w,  sin  (7rm:«;/a) .  (1.2-13) 

w»=l 

This  particular  solution  corresponds  to  the  j*^  one  of  the  modes  (traveling  in 
the  positive  z  direction)  for  which  A  is  proportional  to  cos  {irty/b). 

In  much  the  same  way  it  may  be  shown  that  the  series  (1.2-8)  assumed 
for  5  is  a  solution  of  equation  (1.2-6)  (with  A  replaced  by  B)  provided  the 
coefficients  /3mn(s)  satisfy  the  set  of  equations 

00 

-V^M^)    +     S   [QvmCtiz)    -    Upm^mdz)]    =    0  (1.2-14) 

for  />  =  0,  1,  2,  •  •  •  and  /  =  1,  2,  3,  •  •  •  .    Here 

Qpm  =  i^p/a)  I    (pi/p^)  cos  {irpx/a)  cos  (Tmx/a)  dx      (1.2-15) 
Jo 

Upm  =  irmepaT^  I    cos  {irpx/a)  sin  (Tmx/a)  dx/p  (1.2-16) 

Jo 

where  €o  =  1  and  €p  =  2  for  />  >  0.  These  integrals  are  discussed  in 
Appendix  I. 

The  problem  of  determining  the  reflection  from  a  bend  in  a  wave  guide 
involves  considerable  manipulation  of  equations  (1.2-9)  and  (1.2-14).  The 
introduction  of  matrix  notation  in  the  manner  suggested  by  the  work  of 
Section  1.1  for  straight  guides  simplifies  this  work.  Although  Omniz)  and 
/3mn(z)  are  no  longer  the  simple  exponential  functions  given  by  (1.1-9),  it 
turns  out  that  the  column  matrices  a(z)  and  ^(z)  are  still  given  by  (for  a 
wave  traveling  in  the  positive  z  direction)  by  the  matrix  expression  (1.1-10). 
As  mentioned  earlier,  Ta  and  r^  are  no  longer  simple  diagonal  matrices. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


313 


We  now  turn  to  the  task  of  expressing  (1.2-9)  and  (1.2-14)  in  matrix 
form. 

1.3  Propagation  Constant  Matrix  for  Curved  Rectangular  Guide 

From  this  point  onward  in  our  investigation  of  propagation  in  the  rec- 
tangular guide  we  shall  assume  A  to  be  proportional  to  cos  (irfy/b).  Thus 
instead  of  the  general  expression  (1.2-7)  for  A  we  shall  deal  with  the  more 
restricted  form 


A  =  cos  {irly/h)  zl  ccml{z)  sin  {irinx/a) 


(1.3-1) 


where  /has  one  of  the  values  0,  1,  2,  3,  •  •  •  .  Since  the  most  general  dis- 
turbance may  be  obtained  by  the  superposition  of  disturbances  of  the  form 
(1.3-1)  no  real  generaUty  will  be  lost. 

The  introduction  of  (1.3-1)  is  suggested  by  the  fact  that  the  set  ai^(z), 
ci2({z),  ' '  ■  may  be  determined  from  (1.2-9)  (at  least  to  within  arbitrary 
constants  of  integration)  without  considering  the  other  OmnizYs,  n  9^  t 
The  introduction  of  (1.3-1)  is  also  suggested  by  physical  reasons.  The 
plane  of  the  bend  is  the  z,  x  plane  and  there  is  nothing  in  the  system  tending 
to  change  the  field  distribution  in  the  y  direction. 

Equation  (1.2-13)  is  a  special  case  of  (1.3-1).  Furthermore  the  most 
general  form  of  (1.3-1)  (corresponding  to  a  wave  progressing  in  the  positive 
z  direction)  may  be  obtained  by  multiplying  (1.2-13)  by  an  arbitrary  con- 
stant Cj  and  summing  on  j. 

In  order  to  write  the  set  of  differential  equations  (1.2-9)  for  the  amtizYs  in 
matrix  form  we  introduce  the  infinite  matrices 


Fo 


Til 

0 

0 

0 

V2l 

0 

0 

0 

Tzt 

Pii 

P12 

-1 

P21 

P22 

• 

a{z) 


aitiz)' 

0L2l{z) 

azl{z) 


(1.3-2) 


S  = 


Sn     S12 

»S'21        ►S'22 


where  the  elements  of  To  are  obtained  by  setting  n  =  I'm  equation  (1.1-5) 
for  Tmm  and  the  elements  of  P  and  Q  are  given  by  the  integrals  (1.2-10)  and 
(1.2-11).    The  rules  of  matrix  multipHcation  then  show  that  (1.2-9)  is  the 


'  element  of  the  matrix  equation 

Poc'\z)  -  (rS  -f  S)a{z)  =  0 
Premulti  plying  by  P~^  converts  this  equation  into 
a"{z)  -  T\  a{z)  =  0 


(1.3-3) 


(1.3^) 


314  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where 

r!,  =  p-'  {tI  +  s)  (1.3-5) 

It  may  be  verified  by  direct  differentiation  of  the  series  (1.1-11)  defining 
exp  (— 2:r)  that  a  solution  of  (1.3-4)  is 

a{z)  ^e-^-g"-  (1.3-6) 

where,  as  in  (1.1-10)  for  the  straight  guide,  g+  is  a  column  of  constants  (of 
integration).  However,  now  Fa  is  to  be  obtained  by  taking  the  square  root 
of  the  right  hand  side  of  (1.3-5\  a  process  which  is  not  easy  since  it  usually 
requires  one  to  obtain  the  characteristic  roots  and  modal  columns  of  r« 
(see  equation  (1.3-10)). 

As  far  as  (1.3-6)  being  a  solution  of  the  differential  equation  is  concerned, 
Ta  may  be  any  matrix  whose  square  is  given  by  (1.3-5).  We  shall  restrict 
it  as  follows:  When  ^  =  a/ pi  becomes  small,  as  in  the  case  of  a  gentle  bend, 
it  is  seen  from  (1.2-10)  and  (1.2-11)  that  P  approaches  the  unit  matrix  and 
S  approaches  zero.  Hence,  Ta  approaches  the  diagonal  matrix  Tq.  Ta  is 
chosen  so  that  it  approaches  To,  that  is,  all  of  the  elements  in  the  principal 
diagonal  are  either  positive  real  or  positive  imaginary.  This  makes 
exp{—zTa)  approach  the  diagonal  matrix  exp(  — zFo).  With  this  choice 
of  Ta  the  expression  (1.3-6)  for  a{z)  corresponds  to  a  wave  traveling  in  the 
positive  2  direction. 

The  various  modes  of  propagation  in  the  bend  may  be  obtained  from  T « 
by  expressing,  in  matrix  notation,  the  steps  leading  to  (1.2-13)  (which  gives 
A  for  they*^  mode).  We  assume  a(z)  to  be  the  column  matrix  obtained  by 
multiplying  the  column  matrix  g  of  constants  by  the  scalar  quantity  e^^ 
Setting  this  in  (1.3-4)  gives 

{yV  -  Tl)g  =  0  (1.3-7) 

where  /  is  the  unit  matrix.  In  order  that  (1.3-7)  may  have  a  solution,  the 
determinant  of  the  coefficient  of  g  must  vanish.  This  leads  to  the  char- 
acteristic equation*  for  7^: 

\y'I-Tl\  =  0  (1.3-8) 

The  vertical  bars  denote  the  determinant  of  the  inclosed  matrix.  The  roots 
Ti,  72,  •  •  •  are  therefore  the  latent  (or  characteristic)  roots  of  F^.  If  we  let 
kj  denote**  the  column  g  obtained  when  y  =  jj  in  (1.3-7)  then 

*  See  Section  3.6  of  Reference'. 

**  We  choose  this  notation  in  order  to  adhere  as  closely  as  possible  to  that  of  Refer- 
ence*. Incidentally,  the  column  kj  is  proportional  to  the  j^^  column  of  k"*  where  k  is 
the  modal  row  matrix  introduced  in  Section  5.1. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


315 


{y)l  -  Tl)  k,  =  0 


(1.3-9) 


and  the  elements  kij,  ^2/,  •  •  •  of  the  modal  column  kj  are  the  ones  appearing 
as  coefficients  in  (1.2-13). 

Equation  (1.3-9)  and  the  methods  of  matrix  analysis  lead  to 

tI  =  k[y%  k-\         Ta=  k  Md  k-'  (1.3-10) 

where  k  is  the  square  matrix  whose^  column  is  kj  and  [7  ]  d,  [y]  d  are  diagonal 
matrices  having7/,  7;  as  thej*  elements  in  their  principal  diagonals.  The 
representation  (1.3-10)  certainly  holds  for  the  rectangular  guide  since  in 
this  case  no  repeated  roots  occur. 

In  analogy  with  the  expression  (1.3-1)  for  A  we  shall  henceforth  deal 
with  B  in  the  form 


B  =  sin  {irly/h)  ^  ^m({z)  cos  {irmx/a) 


(1.3-11) 


where  /has  one  of  the  values  1 , 2, 3,  •  •  •  .  In  much  the  same  way  as  before  it 
may  be  shown  that  for  a  wave  traveling  along  the  bend  in  the  positive 
direction  the  ^m^(z)'s  in  (1.3-11)  are  given  by 

^(2)  =  e-'^'  d^  (1.3-12) 

where  J+  is  a  column  of  arbitrary  constants  and 

r|  =  Q-'  {tI  +  U)  (1.3-13) 


In  (1.3-12)  and  (1.3-13) 


To  = 


Q  = 


Toe 

0 

0 

0 

T,t 

0 

0 

0 

T2^ 

Qoo 

Qoi 

^- 

Qio 

Qn 

Kz)  = 


u  = 


0  t/01  f/02 
0  Un  Un 
0     U21       ' 


(1.3-14) 


where  the  elements  of  To,  Q  and  U  are  given  by  equations  (1.1-5),  (1.2-15) 
and  (1.2-16),  respectively. 

1.4  Continuity  Conditions  at  Junction  of  Straight  and  Curved  Rectangular 
Guides 

Electromagnetic  theory  requires  that  Ex,  Ey,  Hx  and  Hy  be  continuous  in 
crossing  a  plane  s  =  constant  which  marks  the  junction  of  a  straight  and  a 


316  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

curved  wave  guide  (of  the  same  cross-section).  Comparison  of  the  first 
equation  in  (1.1-7)  with  the  first  equation  in  (1.2-5)  shows  that  Ex  is  con- 
tinuous if  (1)^  is  continuous  and  (2)  if  dB/dz  in  the  straight  portion  is  equal 
(the  equality  being  taken  at  the  junction)  to  (pi/p)  dB/dz  in  the  curved 
portion.  Examination  of  the  expressions  for  the  remaining  field  com- 
ponents shows  that  all  the  continuity  conditions  are  satisfied  if,  at  the 
junction, 

[A  in  straight  portion]  =  [A  in  bend] 

and  likewise  for  B. 

Let  A  in  the  bend  be  given  by  (1.3-1)  and  let  a{z)  denote  the  column 
matrix  of  coefficients  shown  in  (1.3-2).  A  in  the  straight  portion  may  be 
represented  in  the  same  way  except  that  a(z)  has  a  simpler  form  as  explained 
in  Section  1.1.  When  these  expressions  for  A  are  inserted  in  (1.4-1),  both 
sides  multiplied  by  {2fa)s\n{irpx/a)  after  cancelling  out  the  cos  {irly/b),  and 
the  results  integrated  with  respect  to  x  from  0  to  a  we  obtain  relations  which 
may  be  expressed  as  the  matrix  equations 

[a{z)  in  straight  portion]  =  [01(2)  in  bend] 


e  square  matrix  wh 
1,2,3,  .-Ois 


where  V  is  the  square  matrix  whose  p^^  row  and rn^  column  {p,  m  = 


V  vm  =  (2pi/o)  /     ^\n  {irpx/ a)  sin  {irmx/ a)  dx/p,  (1.4-3) 

p  being  equal  to  pi-{-  x  —  a/ 2. 

By  using  expression  (1.3-11)  for  B  in  the  continuity  conditions,  it  may  be 
shown  in  much  the  same  way  that  the  column  matrix  /3(2)  given  by  (1.3-14) 
rflust  satisfy  the  relations 

[^{z)  in  straight  portion]  =  [/3(z)  in  bend] 

W- ]-^*'^H  "■"' 

where  W  is  the  infinite  square  matrix 

PFoo     PToi 
W  =     PTio     Wii     •  (1.4-5) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  317 

whose  elemenst  are 

Wpm  =  {€ppi/a)  I     cos  {irpx/ a)  cos  (irmx/ a)  dx/p 

^0  (1.4--6) 

€0=1,         ep  =  2     for     p  >  0 
Both  Vpm  and  Wpm  are  discussed  in  Appendix  I. 

PART  II 
THEORY  FOR  A  GENERAL  WAVE  GUIDE 

2.1  Matrix  Propagation  Constant  for  a  Curved  Wave  Guide  of  Arbitrary  Cross- 
Section 

In  Section  1 .3  it  has  been  shown  that  for  a  curved  rectangular  wave  guide 
there  exists  a  square  matrix  Ta  (or  Tp)  which  plays  the  same  role  in  the 
propagation  of  a  wave  consisting  of  many  modes  as  does  the  propagation 
constant  in  a  simple  transmission  line.  There  Ta  was  obtained  from  a 
special  form  of  the  wave  equation  which  is  suited  to  bends  in  rectangular 
guides.  Here  we  adopt  a  different  approach  with  the  idea  of  showing  that  a 
matrix  propagation  constant  T  exists  under  more  general  conditions. 

The  general  theory  of  wave  propagation  in  tubes  shows  that  a  wave 
traveling  in  the  positive  z  direction  may  often  be  represented  as 

^  =  12c,e-'y^^{x,y)  (2.1-1) 

where  $  is  some  quantity  associated  with  the  field  and  is  analogous  to  the 
functions  A  and  B  of  Part  I.  In  (2.1-1)  x  and  y  are  transverse  coordinates 
and  z  a  longitudinal  coordinate,  jj  is  the  propagation  constant  for  the  f^ 
mode  and  <Pj{x,  y)  the  corresponding  eigenf unction.  For  a  circular  bend  in  a 
rectangular  wave  guide  (pj{x,  y)  is  a  combination  of  trigonometric  and  Bessel 
functions  and  7;  is  proportional  to  the  order  of  the  Bessel  functions. 

We  assume  that  we  may  find  a  set  of  functions  Bm{Xj  y)^m  =  \,2,?),  .  .  . 
such  that  every  (pj{x,  y)  may  be  represented  as 

00 

^;(^,  y)  =  ^  kmidmix,  y)  (2.1-2) 

m=l 

The  usefulness  of  this  procedure  depends  upon  our  ability  to  pick  a  system 
of  dm{x,  yYs  which  is  appreciably  simpler  than  the  system  of  (pj{x,  yYs.  In 
the  work  of  Part  I  dm{x,  y)  was  taken  to  be  the  eigenf  unction  of  the  typical 
mode  of  propagation  in  a  straight  guide,  i.e.  the  product  of  a  sine  and  a 
cosine. 
We  assume  further  in  (2.1-2)  that  the  square  matrix  k~^  exists  where  kmj  is 


318  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  element  in  the  w*  row  andy*  column  of  k\  i.e.  if  a  root  7,  is  repeated, 
say,  5  times  there  are  5  linearly  independent  columns  {k/s)  corresponding 
to  7,-.     Substitution  of  (2.1-2)  in  (2.1-1)  gives 


m=l  y=i 

00 


(2.1-3) 


where 

00 

^m{z)  =  T.kmiqe-''^  (2.1-4) 

Since  dm{Xj  y)  is  analogous  to  the  product  of  the  trigonometrical  terms  in 
(1.3-1)  or  (1.3-11)  these  equations  show  that  iUw(s)  plays  the  same  role  as 
aml{z)  or  ^ml{z).  Therefore,  in  accordance  with  the  discussion  given  at  the 
beginning  of  this  section,  we  wish  to  show  that  the  column  matrix  )u(z) 
(which  is  similar  to  a{z)  or  /3(2))  whose  rn'  element  is  ixm{z)  may  be  ex- 
pressed as 

m(z)  =  e-'^t  (2.1-5) 

In  this  equation  F  is  a  square  matrix  to  be  determined  and  /+  is  a  column 
matrix  of  constants  similar  to  ^  or  J+. 

The  rules  of  matrix  multipUcation  and  equation  (2.1-4)  show  that 

^,{z)  =  k[e~''']dc  (2.1-6) 

in  which  [exp  {—zy)]d  is  a  diagonal  matrix  having  exp  (— S7y)  as  the  j 
element  in  its  principal  diagonal  and  c  is  the  column  matrix  formed  from  the 
c/s.    We  introduce  the  column /+  by  defining  it  as  /x(0)  whence 

/+  =  kc,        c=  k-'f+  (2.1-7) 

Incidentally,  from  (2.1-3),  the  value  of  $  at  2  =  0  is 

00 
^z=o  =  JlfterrXx,y)  (2.1-8) 

where /i  is  the  m^^  element  in/"*". 
From  (2.1-6)  and  (2.1-7) 

m(2)  =  k[e-''U  k-' f"-  (2.1-9) 

In  this  equation  k  [exp  ( —  zy)]d  k~^  is  a  square  matrix  which  may  be  expressed 
as 

t  ^-^  *w;  r '  =  z  t^"  {k[y],  k-r 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  319 

Here  [7]  j  represents  the  diagonal  matrix  havingyy  the^**^  term  in  its  principal 
diagonal  and 

T  =  k[yUk-'  (2.1-11) 

Therefore  we  have  shown  that  ^(2)  is  of  the  form  (2.1-5)  \\hich  is  what  we 
set  out  to  do. 

It  is  rather  difficult  to  compute  T  from  (2.1-11)  using  only  the  above 
definitions  of  k  and  7,-  for  one  must  first  obtain  the  functions  (pj{x,  y).  In 
deaUng  with  the  rectangular  guide  it  is  easier  to  use  equations  (1.3-5)  and 
(1.3-13)  to  determine  T. 

2.2  Reflection  at  a  Single  Junction 

Let  a  straight  wave  guide  extending  from  2=— ootos  =  Obe  joined  to  a 
curved  guide  of  the  same  cross-section  w^hich  extends  from  s  =  0  to  s  =  oc . 
Let  an  incident  wave 

00 
^i  =  Z  hr.e-'''"'dr>Xx,y)  (2.2-1) 

come  in  from  the  left  along  the  straight  guide.  The  hm's,  are  given  constants, 
the  5,„'s  are  the  modal  propagation  constants  for  straight  guides  (for  rec- 
tangular guides  they  are  the  T^n's  given  by  (1.1-5)),  and  dm{x,  y)  is  the  w*^ 
eigenfunction  for  the  straight  guide  (the  product  of  a  sine  and  a  cosine  for  a 
rectangular  guide). 

WTiat  are  the  reflected  and  transmitted  waves  set  up  by  (2.2-1)?  The 
reflected  wave  is  of  the  form 

00 
^r  =  Hf^e''^em(x,y)      .  (2.2-2) 

where  the/^'s  are  to  be  determined. 
If  we  assume  the  representation 

00 
^  =  Z  fJ^MSmix,  y)  (2.2-3) 

m=l 

to  hold  for  all  real  values  of  z  then,  since  <I>  =  <?>,•  +  <I>r  for  s  <  0,  equations 
(2.2-1)  and  (2.2-2)  show  that 

Mn»(2)  =  h„.e-''-  +  fZ  /'•",         w  =  1,  2,  3,  .  .  .  ;  s  <  0    (2.2-4) 

Introducing  the  column  matrices  /i(z),  h,  f~  and  the  diagonal  matrices 
exp  (±sro)  where  To  is  a  diagonal  matrix  having  bm  as  the  w*  term  in  its 
principal  diagonal  enables  us  to  write  (2.2-4)  as 

^{z)  =  e-'^'  h+  e'^'T,        2  <  0  (2.2-5) 


320  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Equation  (2.2-5)  is  more  general  than  the  expression  (2.1-5)  for  )u(s)  in  that 
it  contains  waves  going  in  both  directions,  but  is  more  special  in  that  To  is  a 
diagonal  matrix. 

In  the  curved  guide  we  take  /x(s)  to  be  given  by  (2.1-5)  ,  thus 

n{z)  =  e-'^f,        2  >  0  (2.2-6) 

where  F  is  a  square  matrix  whose  elements  are  assumed  to  be  known  and/+  is 
a  column  matrix  whose  elements  are  to  be  determined  along  with  those  of/"". 
The  conditions  that  the  transverse  components  of  the  electric  and  mag- 
netic intensities  be  continuous  at  the  junction  of  the  two  guides  are  assumed 
to  lead  to  the  requirements 

|ju(z)  in  straight  portion]  =  [iu(s)  in  curved  portion] 

Yd  1       r      ^  1    (2-2-7) 

—  /i(z)  in  straight  portion     =     V  —  ii{z)  in  curved  portion 

where  the  quantities  within  the  brackets  are  evaluated  at  the  junction  and  V 
is  a  square  matrix  whose  elements  are  constants.  When  the  curvature  of  the 
curved  portion  becomes  small  V  approaches  the  unit  matrix.  For  the 
problem  at  hand  (2.2-7)  may  be  written  as 

W^)].=-^  =  [m(2)].=^o  (2.2-8) 

r^M«i  =Fr;^M«]  (2.2-9) 

\_az         Jz=-o  \_az         Jz=+o 

in  which  the  subscripts  z  =  —  0,  2  =  +0  refer  to  the  straight  and  curved 
portions,  respectively,  of  the  guide  at  2  =  0. 

The  requirements  (2.2-7)  have  been  established  for  the  rectangular  guide 
in  Section  1.4.  Their  form  is  also  suggested  by  the  conditions  that  the 
voltage  and  current  be  continuous  at  the  junction  of  two  transmission  lines. 
Thus  if  we  let  ju(z)  play  the  role  of  the  voltage,  the  current  in  the  first  line  is 
—  Z^^  d\i.{z)ldz  and  the  current  in  the  second  is  —  Z^^  dij.{z)/dz  where  Zi  and 
Z2  denote  the  distributed  series  impedances  of  the  two  Hues.  It  is  seen  that 
this  leads  to  scalar  equations  which  look  like  (2.2-7),  but  now  V  denotes  the 
scalar  Z1/Z2  instead  of  a  square  matrix. 

Setting  the  expressions  (2.2-5)  and  (2.2-6)  for  ^{z)  in  the  conditions 
(2.2-8)  and  (2.2-9)  gives  two  equations  which  may  be  solved  simultaneously 
to  obtain/"  and/+  in  terms  of  /?,  To,  F  and  V: 

h+f-=f-^ 

(2.2-10) 
-Toh  +  Tof-=  -FF/+ 

/-  =  (Fo  +  FD-KFo  -  VT)h  (2.2-11) 

/+  =  (Fo  4-  VT)-'2Toh  (2.2-12) 


(2.2- 13) 


(2.2-14) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  321 

Since  /~  and  /+  specify  the  reflected  and  transmitted  waves,  respectively, 
they  give  the  answer  which  we  are  seeking. 

If  the  curved  guide  should  extend  from  z=— octoz  =  0  and  the  straight 
guide  from  s  =  0  to  s  =  oo  the  response  to  an  incident  wave  e''^  h  coming  in 
along  the  curved  guide  would  be 

^(2)  =  e~'^  h-\-  e"" r,        z  <  0 

m(2)  =  e-^'V\        2  >  0 

A  procedure  similar  to  that  used  above  shows  that 

/-=  -(ro+  Fr)-i(ro-  w)h 
/+  =  (Fo  +  Fr)-i  2Wh 
where,  instead  of  condition  (2.2-9),  we  have  used 

2.3  Reflection  Due  to  a  Bend 

Let  the  guide  be  straight  for  —  oc  <  z  <  —c  and  for  t  <  s  <  co ,  and  let 
these  two  portions  be  connected  by  a  curved  portion  in  which  the  longi- 
tudinal coordinate  z  runs  from  —  c  to  -f^.  As  in  Section  2.2  we  take  the 
matrix  propagation  constants  for  the  straight  and  curved  portions  to  be  the 
square  matrices  To  and  F,  respectively,  and  assume  an  incident  wave, 
specified  by  the  column  matrix  h,  to  come  in  from  z  =  —  oc  . 

The  column  matrix  /Lt(2)  whose  tn^  element  appears  as  the  coefficient  of 
Bm{x,  y)  in  the  representation  (2.2-3)  for  $  is  now  given  by 

^(2)  =  e-'^'h-{-  /^V~         z<  -c 

y.{z)  =  (cosh  sr)^  +  (sinh  zT)q,         -c  <  z  <  c  (2.3-1) 

^(z)  =  .-^'V^        c<z 

In  these  expressions  /~,  /+,  p,  q  are  column  matrices  which  may  be  de- 
termined as  functions  of  the  known  matrices  To,  T,  V  and  h  by  substituting 
(2.3-1)  in  the  conditions  (2.2-7)  which  must  hold  at  the  junctions  z  =  —c 
and  z  =  c. 

By  straightforw^ard  algebra  similar  to  that  used  for  the  analogous  problem 
in  transmission  line  theory  we  obtain 

-cTo^  +  €-'''' f"^  =  [-/  +  2(Fr  tanh  cT  +  To)"'  To]  e'^'  h 

(2.3-2) 
-cT,j-  _  ^-cToj+  ^  [_j  _^  2(VT  coth  cT  +  To)"'  To]  e*^  °  h 


r 

=  .»"'» 

{x  +  y)- 

and  the  transmitted 

wave 

by 

r  = 

e'''  (x  - 

■y) 

322  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

In  these  equations  the  infinite  square  matrix  tanh  cV  is  defined  as  (sinh  cT) 
(cosh  cT)~^  and  coth  cT  as  its  reciprocal,  sinh  cT  and  cosh  cT  may  be  de- 
fined as  power  series  in  cT  and  may  be  expressed  as  combinations  of  exp  (cT) 
and  exp  (—cT). 

An  expression  for  the  column  matrix  /~  may  be  obtained  by  adding  the 
equations  in  (2.3-2),  Before  doing  this  it  is  convenient  to  introduce  the 
two  column  matrices  x  and  y  defined  by 

{VcT  tanh  cT  +  cTq)  x  =  cFo  e^'  h 

(2  ?>-?)) 
{VcV  coth  cV  -f  cFo)  y  =  cTo  e^'  h 

where  the  scalar  length  c  has  been  introduced  to  make  the  various  terms 
dimensionless.     Each  equation   in   (2.3-3)    represents  an  infinite  set  of 
simultaneous  linear  equations  to  be  solved  for  the  elements  of  x  or  y. 
Once  X  and  y  are  known  the  reflected  wave  is  given  by 

(2.3-4) 

(2.3-5) 

PART  III 
GENTLE  BENDS— GENERAL  THEORY 

3.1  Limiting  Forms  Assumed  for  T  and  V 

It  will  be  shown  in  Part  IV  that  for  gentle  circular  bends  in  rectangular 
wave  guides  the  matrix  propagation  constant  T  is  such  that 

r'  =  tI  +  F  (3.1-1) 

where  To  is  the  square  of  the  matrix  propagation  constant  for  the  straight 
guide.  To  is  a  diagonal  matrix  having  8m  (which  is  one  of  the  r„,„'s,  depend- 
ing on  the  set  of  modes  under  consideration,  given  by  (1.1-5))  for  the  w*^ 
element  in  its  principal  diagonal.  F  is  a  square  matrix  of  infinite  order  in 
which  the  elements  Fa  in  the  principal  diagonal  are  of  order  ^^  and  the  re- 
maining elements  Fij,  i  9^  j  are  of  order  ^.  Here  ^  =  a/pi  is  the  ratio  of  the 
guide  width  to  the  radius  of  curvature  of  the  bend.  As  the  bend  becomes 
more  and  more  gentle,  ^  -^  0. 

The  asymptotic  expressions  given  in  Appendix  I  show  that,  for  gentle 
bends  in  rectangular  guides,  the  square  matrix  V  which  appears  in  the 
junction  conditions  (2.2-7)  approaches  a  unit  matrix  as  ^  -^  0.  In  par- 
ticular Vii  =  1  -f  Vii  where  va  is  of  order  ^'^,  and  Va,  the  element  in  the  i*^ 
row  andy*  column,  is  of  order  ^  when  i  9^  j. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  323 

Throughout  the  remainder  of  Part  III  we  shall  assume  that  V^,  F  and  V 
behave  as  mentioned  above.  In  addition  we  assume  that  there  is  no  de- 
generacy, i.e.  all  of  the  b^s  are  unequal  to  each  other  and  to  zero. 

3.2  Propagation  in  a  Gentle  Bend 

Here  we  assume  that  the  elements  of  vl  and  F  in  the  expression  (3.1-1) 
forF-  are  known.  We  wish  to  find  the  modal  propagation  constant  7y  and 
the  corresponding  eigenfunction  <pj{x,  y)  for  the^*^  mode. 

After  squaring  both  sides  of  the  collineatory  transformation  (2.1-11) 
connecting  V  and  the  diagonal  matrix  [y]d  we  obtain  a  relation  which  may  be 
written  as  k\y'^]d  —  V^k  =  0.  The  left  hand  side  is  a  square  matrix  having 
(T;/  —  r^)^;  as  itsy^  column.  Here  /  is  the  unit  matrix  and  k,  is  a  column 
matrix  having  kij,  k^i,  ...  as  its  elements  (kj  is  the/^  column  of  k).  Thus 
we  have  a  system  of  simultaneous  Hnear  equations  in  which  the  coefl&cients 
are  furnished  by  the  square  matrix  y]l  —  T^  and  in  which  the  unknowns  are 
kij,  k2],  •  •  •  .  Accordingly,  7,-  is  the  j^^  latent  root  of  T^  and  kj  is  its  cor- 
responding modal  column  just  as  for  the  rectangular  guide  in  Section  1.3. 

In  order  to  apply  equations  (A2-16)  of  Appendix  II  we  set  >;•  =  7/  and 
«  =  r2  so  that,  from  (3.1-1), 

«yy  =  5)  +  Fa,  Uii  =  Fii,  i  9^  j  (3.2-1) 

Therefore 

y)  =  «'  +  f'yy  +  S'  F„F,M  -  «')  (3.2-2) 

s.l 

k,-^  =  1,        ksi  =  Fsi/{b)  -  hi),        s  9^  j  (3.2-3) 

where  we  have  neglected  terms  of  order  ^  in  (3.2-2)  and  of  order  ^^  in  ksj, 
s  7^  j.  The  prime  on  the  summation  indicates  that  the  term  5  =  y  is  to  be 
omitted. 

When  ^ly,  ^2;,  .  .  .  are  known  the  eigenfunction  ^y(it:,  y)  may  be  written 
as  a  series  in  Qmioo,  y)  by  means  of  equation  (2.1-2). 

In  Section  3.3  we  shall  need  the  form  assumed  by  the  square  matrix  V 
tanh  cV  in  a  gentle  bend.  This  matrix  is  used  ui  computing  the  reflection 
from  such  a  bend,  as  might  be  inferred  from  equation  (2.3-3).  The  formula 
to  be  used  is  (A2-18)  with  «  =  T^,  X;  =  7,-  and  with  the  elements  of  the 
square  matrix  k  given  by  (3.2-3).     In  the  diagonal  matrix  of  (A2-18)  we  set 

/(X,)  =  X/   tanh  c\j     =  7/  tanh  cjj  =  yjtj 

(3.2-4) 
/;•  =  tanh  cyj 

and  for  the  elements  of  k~^  we  use  (A2-19)  together  with  the  line  above  it. 
When  the  three  matrices  on  the  right  of  (A2-18)  are  multiplied  out  the  ele- 
ment (r  tanh  cT)  a  in  the  i^^  row  and_;'^  column  of  F  tanh  cT  is  found  to  be 


324  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

(r  tanh  cV)ij  =  (7///  -  yiti)kii,        i  9^  j  (3.^-S) 

(r  tanh  cT)ii  =  Jiti  +  Jl'  {jiU  —  ymtm)kimkmi  (3.2-6) 

m 

where  in  (3.2-5)  and  (3.2-6)  terms  of  0(^2)  (''order  of")  and  0(^'),  re- 
spectively, have  been  neglected.  This  is  in  line  with  the  fact  that  the  terms 
in  the  principal  diagonals  of  our  matrices  must  be  accurate  to  within  0(^2) 
while  the  remaining  terms  need  be  accurate  only  to  within  terms  of  O(^). 
The  summation  with  respect  to  m  runs  from  w  =  1  to  00  with 
m  =  i  omitted. 

d>.?t  Reflection  from  a  Gentle  Bend 

When  the  bend  is  gentle  so  that  V  and  V  behave  according  to  the  descrip- 
tion given  in  Section  3.1,  the  matrix  expressions  for  the  reflection  coefficients 
given  in  Section  2.3  may  be  evaluated.  The  results  stated  in  Appendix  II 
for  ''almost  diagonal"  matrices  furnish  the  principal  tools  for  this  work. 

It  is  assumed  that  the  incident  wave  coming  in  along  the  straight  guide 
from  the  left  is  $»  =  exp(— s5p)  Bp{Xj  y)  and  hence  contanis  only  the  />*^ 
mode.  Comparing  this  with  the  general  expression  (2.2-1)  for  $»  shows 
that  hp  =  l,hm  =  0,m  7^  p,  and  all  the  elements  of  the  column  matrix  h  are 
zero  except  the  p^^  which  is  unity. 

We  start  by  writing  the  first  of  equations  (2.3-3)  as 

(r  tanh  cT  +  V-''To)x  =  V-^  To  Z"^"  h  (3.3-1) 

Since  V  approaches  a  unit  matrix  as  ^  — >  0,  the  element  (F~^)  ij  in  the  i*^  row 
andy^*"  column  of  V"^  is 

{V-^)ii   =    1    -    f a  +   Z)'   Virr.   Ymi 
•m 

where  V ii=  1  +  ^ti,  ^i  =  1,  2,  3, .  .  .  and  the  summation  with  respect  to  m 
runs  from  1  to  <»  with  the  term  form  =  i  omitted  (as  indicated  by  the  prime 
on  S).  In  omitting  this  term  we  are  neglecting  va  because  it  is  of  order 
^*.  These  results  follow  from  equation  (A2-2)  of  Appendix  II.  As  usual, 
the  elements  in  the  principal  diagonal  are  accurate  to  within  0(^2)  and  the 
remaining  elements  to  within  O(^). 
It  follows  that  V~^  Toe'^^°  h  =  ry  is  a  column  matrix  whose  i^^  element  is 


Vp 


=    (1    -    ^PP+Z'l'pn.    F;„p)5p  A 


(3.3-3) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  325 

Likewise,  the  element  in  the  i*^  row  and  j^^  column  of  the  square  matrix 
F~^  To  is  —  Viibj  when  i  9^  j  and  is 

(1  -  VU  +  S'  Virr,  V„^i)  di  (3.3-4) 

TO 

when  i  =  j. 

By  combining  the  approximate  expressions  for  the  elements  of  T  tanh  cV 
(given  by  (3.2-5)  and  (3.2-6))  and  F'^  To  we  find  that  if  Ua  denotes  the  i'^ 
row  andy*^  column  of  T  tanh  cT  +  V~^  Tq  then 

Uij  =  Dij  -  Vij8j,         i  9^  j 

Uii  =  yih  +  Z'  Dmikirr.  +  6^ (l  -  Vu  +  E'  Cm^        (3.3-5) 

=    (Tt    —    SilVt    +  2.^     {Dmikim   +    5iC;„i) 
m 

In  these  equations  we  have  set 

Oi   =    5i  +  7i/i,  Cmx   =    VimVmi 

Dmi   =    (jiti  —  ymim)kmi   =    {yiti  "  ymtm)Fmi/{8i   —   dm) 


(3.3-6) 


where  7i  and  k^i  are  given  by  (3.2-2)  and  (3.2-3). 

We  are  now  in  a  position  to  identify  the  matrix  equation  (3.3-1)  for  x 
with  the  set  of  equations  (A2-20).  The  quantity  rji  which  appears  on  the 
right  hand  side  of  the  i*^  equation  in  (A2-20)  is  given  by  (3.3-3).  The 
coefficients  which  appear  on  the  left  hand  side  are  the  m's  defined  by  (3.3-5). 
Therefore,  from  (A2-21),  when  i  9^  p, 

Xi  =  — —  [—Vip(ap  -  dp)  —  Dip] 

(Ti(Tp 

where  we  have  neglected  higher  order  terms  and  in  so  doing  have  replaced 
7,-  by  the  simpler  5/ .  . 

W^en  i  =  p  (A2-21)  yields  * 

Xp    =    U^plVp    +    z2     ('i^pmUmpVp    ~    UpmUppTIm) / (UmmUpp)]  (3.3-8) 

TO 

In  order  to  combine  the  second  order  terms  in  \/upp  with  those  in  the  rest 
of  the  expression  for  Xp  w^e  assume  that  dp  is  the  major  portion  of  Upp  . 
Then,    approximately, 

\/Upp  =  a^[\  +  bpVpp/<Tp  —  zL  (Dmpkpm  +  8pCmp)/a-p]   (3.3-9) 


326  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

This  assumption,  which  is  equivalent  to  assuming  that  tanh  cyp  differs 
appreciably  from  —1,  does  not  appear  to  restrict  our  results  since  tanh 
cyp  is  either  purely  imaginary  or  else  real  and  positive. 

Substituting  the  appropriate  values  in  (3.3-8),  neglecting  higher  order 
terms,  and  using  the  definition  (3.3-6)  for  Cmp  leads  to 

Xp  =  a~p    bpC    ^[1   —    (1   —  bp/<J:^Vpp  +  Zl    (o-p  O'm)"   {Cmp{<Tp  —  8p){<Tm  —    8m) 

m 

+  DmpiDpm    —    (Tmkpm)    ~\~    \(Tp    —    dpjDpmVmp    —    8mDmpVpm]]        (3.3—10) 

A  reduction  similar  to  that  used  in  going  from  the  first  to  the  second  line 
of  (3.3-7)  ^ives  our  final  expression  for  Xp 

Xp    =    -       I  —  jz       I      7~\o  I    ^PP  ^  -*      ''  pm  rmp^m/yi-      l      *n 


8p  +  yptp       (1  +  '  '^ ' 


"^   ^     S:     a    a       \      *    \rx^  X^\    \VprabmFmp/tp  (3.3-11) 

m       OmOp\y-    -T  tm)\pm    ~    Op) 

—    VmpbpFpm    +  FpmFmp{dp   +    8m/tp){8m    "—    ^p)       ) 

The  above  expressions  for  Xi  and  Xp  have  been  derived  from  the  first  of 
equations  (2.3-3).  The  second  of  equations  (2.3-3)  determines  the  column 
matrix  y  in  the  same  way  that  the  first  equation  determines  x  except  that 
coth  cT  now  replaces  tanh  cT.  Therefore,  we  may  obtain  expressions  for 
the  elements  of  y  by  replacing  the  /'s  (where  /»  =  tanh  cyi)  by  their  recipro- 
cals in  the  expressions  for  the  corresponding  x's  (i.e.  in  (3.3-7)  and  (3.3-11). 
The  values  obtained  in  this  way  lead  to,  when  i  9^  p, 

fT  =  c'^'ixi  +  y») 

=  ^-T^e'"''^'--''-'-'  sinh  c(yi  +  yp)[-Vip8p  -  Fip/{8i  +  8p)] 

(3.3-12) 
ft  =  e''{xi  -  yi) 

=  57^e<=<^i+«p-^^-V  sinh  c(yi  -  yp)lVip8p  -  Fip/(8i  -  8p)] 

where  we  have  used  the  expressions  (2.3-4)  and  (2.3-5)  for/"  and/+. 
When  i  =  p,  w 

Fp  =  «'''(^p  +  yp)  -  ^''''  =  -e''''-''\A^  (sinh  2cyp)/2  +  ^2]     (3.3-13) 
where 

Ai  —  2vpp  -\-  {yp  —  8p)8p   —  JL,      Vpm  Vmp  +  72        .2 

m        L  Om    —   Op  J 

_  V'  (cosh  2cyp  -  e-'^'y^)  ^       ^  ,       ,      2 

A2    ^^    2Lj  /)£      5    /«2  52  \  I*'  pm  '^  inp  i^m      \       *  mp  i^  pm  0  p    "T~   l^  pm  l\ip\ 

m  lOmOpKPn   ~   0 p) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  327 

The  expression  for  /p  may  be  obtained  in  the  same  way  but  it  is  slightly 
more    complicated. 

/t  =  eHx,  -  y,)  =  e''''--'-\\  -  A^  +  A, (sinh  2cy^)/2  +  A,]     (3.3-14) 

where 

^,  =  (1  -  r^-')(Tp  -  KY/«) 

A      —    \^'     -2cTm  T/         T/  _l_    *  P^  *^  ^P    ~     '  mp  ^  pm  ^^  pm  J^  mp 

A4    —    Z^     e  \     —  Vpm   Vmp   -r  »2  ^2  I"    /s2  $2x2 

m  L  Om  ~   Op  \^0m   —   Op)  J 

_  ^,  (g-^T-»»cosh2c7p  -  1) 

m  28m8p{dm    —    5p) 


^2  rr         t:^         ^2 


(81  +  5yFp^F« 


pm^mpOm  Vrnp^pmOp   "T  ^2  ^2  I 

L  d,„  —  Op  J 

There  are  several  points  we  should  mention  about  these  formulas  for/p  and 
/pi  The  summations  with  respect  to  m  run  from  1  to  oo  with  the  term 
m  =  p  omitted.  7y  and  8j  are  the  propagation  constants  of  the  yth  mode 
in  the  bend  and  in  the  straight  portion,  respectively.  The  difference 
7p  —  6p  may  be  expressed  in  terms  of  the  F's  by  equation  (3.2-2).  In  the 
course  of  obtaining  (3.3-13)  and  (3.3-14)  relations  of  the  following  sort 
were  used. 

^p(l  +  ip)''  =  ^-''''^'^(sinh  2cyp)/2 

(tm  +  4)(1  +  ^p)~'(l  +  0~'  =  e-'^'^(cosh  2cTp  -  e-'''-) 
The  term  Az  arises  when  we  subtract  (1  —  tp)  (1  +  /p)"^  from 
5p/(5p  +  7p/p)  -  8ptp/(yp  +  8ptp) 

Since  7p  —  8p  is  0(^^)  for  a  circular  bend  in  a  rectangular  guide  (7p  —  5p)^ 
is  Oit)  and  hence  ^3  is  negligible  in  the  cases  we  shall  consider. 

The  reflected  wave  set  up  by  an  incident  wave  of  unit  amplitude  and  con- 
taining only  the  p^^  mode  (i.e.  the  incident  wave  described  at  the  beginning 
of  this  section)  is  given  by  the  column  matrix/"  whose  elements  may  be 
obtained  from  (3.3-12)  and  (3.3-13).  Likewise,  the  transmitted  wave  is 
given  by  /+. 

PART  IV 

GENTLE  CIRCULAR  BENDS  IN  RECTANGULAR  WAVE 

GUIDES 

4.1  Propagation  of  Dominant  Mode  in  a  Gentle  Bend — H  in  Plane  of  Bend 

When  the  magnetic  intensity  H  lies  in  the  plane  of  the  bend,  Hy  =  0, 
and  equations  (1.2-5)  show  that  B  =  0.     Thus  we  have  to  deal  only  with 


328  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

A.  In  order  to  study  the  dominant  mode  we  set  /  =  0  in  the  cos  {Trly/b) 
(^A  depends  on  y  through  this  factor)  in  the  formulas  of  Section  1.3  which 
involve  A  and  assume  the  dimensions  of  the  guide  to  be  such  that  h  <  a. 
We  wish  to  determine  71,  the  first  latent  root  of  v\  defined  by  (1.3-5), 
from  the  approximate  formula  (3.2-2).  In  our  case  the  elements  5^  of  diag- 
onal matrix  To  are  obtained  by  putting  n{=  I)  to  zero  in  (1.1-5) : 

bl  =  rlo  =  cr'  +  (ttwA)',         w  =  1,  2,  3,  . . .  (4.1-1) 

so  that  (3.2-2)  becomes 

2 
71 


'        r?o  +  Fii  -   E  F^mFmiairXm^  -  1)"'  (4.1-2) 


The  first  task  is  to  find  the  elements  of  the  matrix  F  where,  from  (3.1-1) 
and    (1.3-5), 

F  =  tI-tI=  (P-'  -  I)tI  +  P-'S  (4.1-3) 

In  the  case  under  consideration  P  =  I  -\-  R  where  i?  is  a  square  matrix 
whose  elements  are  very  small.  In  fact,  the  asymptotic  expressions  lead- 
ing to  (Al-18)  show  that  7?ii  and  Sa  are  0(^2),  with  ^  =  a/pi ,  while  Rij 
and Sij are O(^)  iii-\-j is  odd  and 0(^2)  iii+j is  even.  When  the  approxi- 
mate value  of  P~^  obtained  from  (A2-2)  is  set  in  (4.1-3)  and  the  matrix 
multiplications  carried  out  it  is  found  that 


Fii  =  -  RiiT]o  +  Si,-  4-  0{e) 


(00  \  00 

—  Rii  +    Z-/  ^im  Rmi  1  Tio   +  Su  —     2^  Rim  Smi  + 
m»l  /  m=l 


o{t) 


(4.1-4) 


The  ''order  of"  symbol  0(  )  will  be  omitted  in  the  following  equations,  it 
being  understood  that  the  terms  in  the  principal  diagonal  are  correct  to 
within  0(^2)  ^nd  the  others  to  within  O(^). 

The  values  of  the  F's  which  enter  (4.1-2)  may  be  computed  from  the 
asymptotic  expressions  (Al-18)  for  the  jR's  and  6"s.     They  turn  out  to  be 

Fim  =  -^m[^V\,T-\m'  -  i)-'  -\-  2>a-\m'  -  1)"^] 

Fmi  =  -4^w[4r5o7r-'(m'  -  1)"'  +  ar\m'  -  1)"^]         (4.1-5) 

Fn  =  ^\t\,{\  -  67r-')  +  ^oT']/!! 

In  the  expressions  for  Fim  and  F„,i  w  is  supposed  to  have  the  values  2,  4,  6, 
•  •  •  .  For  odd  values  of  m  Fim  and  F„i  are  0(^^).  When  i  =  1  in  the  ex- 
pression (4.1-4)  for  Fn,  the  two  series  therein  reduce  to  S3  and  S4.  where 

Sp==       E      ni\m'  -  ly  (4.1-6) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  ^29 

By  expanding  the  typical  terms  in  partial  fractions  and  using  th6  fact  that 
the  sums  of  (see,  for  example,  page  238  of  Reference^") 


£/,  =  1  +  3-«  +  5-'  +  . . . 

for  5  =  2,  4,  6,  are  ttVS,  7rV96, 7rV960,  it  may  be  shown  that 
53  =  7rV64,         54  =  7rV768  -  t/U^, 
55  =  (IStt'  -  7r')/3072. 


(4.1-7) 


(4.1-8) 


In  (4.1-7)  Bq  denotes  the  q^^  BernoulU  number.     The  values  of  Sp  may  also 
be  computed  in  succession  from  the  two  relations* 

Uip    =    2-^2  CpJfi-l,2i-lSj:-\-i    =2^2  Cp+f-l,2t-2'5'p4i 

t=l  t=l 

where  Cm,n  is  a  binomial  coefficient.     Still  another  method  is  to  make 
use  of  the  generating  function 

E  ^''^^+1  =  (1  +  0       Z       {tn   -  1  -  t)-'  =  ^  -  iirx  cot  TX 

p==0  m=2,4,6--- 

where  Ax"^  =  1  -\-  t.    Note  that  by  this  definition  Si  is  J  in  contrast  to  the 
non-convergent  series  obtained  by  putting  ^  =  1  in  (4.1-6). 

Substituting  the  values  for  the  F's  given  by  (4.1-5)  in  the  expression 
(4.1-2)  for  7?  and  using  the  sums  (4.1-8)  of  the  series  which  occur  gives 

[        yl  =  Tl  -f-Al+  aVUi  -  6r~')  +  iaTio/T)\S  -  r'/S)]      (4.1-9) 

When  the  dominant  mode  is  propagated  without  attenuation  both  71  and 
Tio  are  negative. 

The  general  form  of  (4.1-9)  has  been  obtained  by  both  Buchholz^  and 
Marshak^  by  different  methods.     In  our  notation  their  result  is 

7L  =  rL  -  £  [1  +  ^'rL(i  -  6.~'m-')  +  (^^J  (5  -  /mV3)] 

(4.1-10) 

where  jmn  is  the  propagation  constant  for  the  m,  n^^  mode  when  the  mag- 
netic vector  is  in  the  plane  of  the  bend. 

*  I  am  indebted  to  John  Riordan  for  these  relations. 


330  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

4.2  Reflection  Due  to  Dominant  Mode  Incident  upon  Gentle  Bend — E  in 
Plane  of  Bend 

Let  the  system  be  the  one  described  in  the  first  paragraph  of  Section  2.3 
and  let  the  incident  wave  contain  only  the  dominant  mode.  Then  the 
matrix  propagation  constant  is  the  Ta  of  Section  4.1  and  the  column  matrix 
h  specifying  the  incident  wave  has  unity  for  its  top  element  and  zero  for  its 
remaining  elements,  i.e.,  />  =  1  in  the  formulas  of  Section  3.3. 

We  shall  be  interested  only  in  the  reflection  coefficient,/!  of  the  dominant 
mode.  Here  we  shall  denote  it  by  gTo,  in  line  with  the  notation  of  equa- 
tion (1.1-3),  in  order  to  distinguish  it  from  the  corresponding  coefficient 
(which  will  be  denoted  by  d'^i)  when  E  lies  in  the  plane  of  the  bend. 

Setting  /)  =  1  in  the  expression  (3.3-13)  for  the  reflection  coefficient  and 
using  equation  (4.1-1 )  for  hm  gives 

/T  =  gro  =  -e'^''''-'''\Ai  (sinh  2cy,)/2  +  A2]  (4.2-1) 

where  71  has  just  been  obtained  in  (4.1-9)  and 

Ai  =  2t'ii  +  (71  -  r?o)rro' 

V\mV  m\    -T  0     -of      9 T\ 3 

m=2  L  ir^a  \m^  —  1)     J 


V^      cosh  2c7i  -  g""^^*» 

A2  =  2^ 


(4.2-2) 


'Zi2Vm^Vi,Tr^a-\m'  -1) 

•    {V\m  Fml  TmO    +   Vml  Flm  TlQ    +  Flm  -fml] 

From  (Al-18)  and  Fu  =  1  +  vn  it  follows  that 
^11  =  eiX  -  67r-2)/12 
Vrm  =  Vml  =  87r-2^m(w2  -  l)-2 


(4.2-3) 


where  m  =  2,  4,  6,  •  •  •  .  For  odd  values  of  w,  V\m  and  Vmi  are  0(|2)* 
Substituting  these  values  together  with  those  for  the  F's  given  by  (4.1-5)' 
using  the  sums  (4.1-8)  and  the  expression  (4.1-9)  for  71  —  Fio  finally  leads 
to  (after  considerable  cancellation) 

^1  =  -  ^'rro'a-V4  (4.2-4) 

Likewise,  for  even  values  of  w, 

VimFmiVl,  -f  VmiFirrXl,  +  Fi.F^i  =  16^Wa-^(w2  -  1)-^  (4.2-5) 

All  of  the  terms  in  the  expression  (4.2-1)  for  gli)  are  now  known  (the  values 
of  7m  may  be  obtained  by  setting  «  =  0  in  (4.1-10)).     We  shall  make  the 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  331 

further  approximation  of  putting  r„,o  for  ym  .     Since  T^o  —  Jm  is  0(^^)  no 
serious  error  is  introduced  and  we  have 

_  _  e  sinh  2crio      eS      ^      (cosh2crio-g-^^'"o)        m'  ,,  ,  ^, 

glO    -  op2       2  —         2  Z^  ^       -,  2  r-^ TT^       (4.2-6; 

olio  a  TT     ,„=2.4.6...  llOlmOa  (w^   —   1)' 

in   which 

ar^o  =  lArn   -  1)  +  a'^5o]^        ^  =  a/pi .  (4.2-7) 

For  frequencies  such  that  only  the  dominant  mode  is  propagated  the 
ratio  of  the  power  in  the  reflected  wave  to  the  power  in  the  incident  wave  is 
I  gTo  1^.  Marshak  has  given  an  expression  for  this  ratio  w^hich  is  the  same 
as  that  obtained  from  (4.2-6)  when  the  negligible  (for  his  case)  terms  e~^''^'"° 
are  omitted. 

The  corresponding  expression  for  the  transmission  coefficient  derived 
from  (3.3-14)  ior  ft  is  not  as  simple  as  (4.2-6). 

4.3  Propagation  of  Dominant  Mode  in  a  Gentle  Bend — E  in  Plane  of  Bend 

WTien  the  electric  intensity  E  lies  in  the  plane  of  the  bend,  Ey  =  0,  and 
equations  (1.2-5)  show  that  ^  =  0.  Here  we  deal  with  B  in  much  the 
same  way  as  w^e  dealt  with  A  in  Section  4.1.  The  dominant  mode  is  ob- 
tained by  setting  /  =  1  in  the  siniir  ty/b)  in  the  formulas  pertaining  to  B 
in  Section  1.3.     It  is  assumed  that  b  >  a. 

Examination  of  the  matrices  (1.3-14)  indicates  that,  for  the  sake  of  con- 
venience, we  should  call  the  top  row  of  our  matrices  the  0*^  row  and  the  left- 
most column  the  0*^  column.  In  line  with  this  we  call  70  the  propagation 
constant  of  the  dominant  mode  in  the  bend.  The  elements  bm  of  the  diagonal 
matrix  t\  are  obtained  by  putting  n{=  /)  =  1  in  (1.1-5): 

bl  =  rL  =  ^'+  (Trm/af  +  ir'/b\         /«  =  0,  1,  2,  •  •  •     (4.3-1) 

When  we  make  the  appropriate  shift  in  the  subscripts,  equation  (3.2-2) 
yields 

00 
To'  =  To'i  +  /^oo  +  Z  Forr.F„.oa\-^m-^  (4.3-2) 

m=l 

in  which  the  elements  of  the  matrix  F  are  to  be  determined  from  (1.3-13): 
F=tI-tI  =  (Q-'  -  I)tI  -f  Q-'U  (4.3-3) 

As  in  (4.1-4)  we  have,  with  Q  =  I  -\-  T, 

/  °°  \  *  (4.3-4) 

Fa  =  (  -  Tii  +  Z  Ti„.  T„u  )  t\,  +  Uu  -  Z  Ti,.  Unu . 

\  m— 0  /  mmmO 


332  BELL  SYSTEM  TECBNICAL  JOURNAL 

By  using  the  asymptotic  expressions  (Al-19)  for  the  Ts  and  U's  and  sum- 
ming the  series  with  the  value  of  (4.1-7)  for  ^  =4  given  in  Section  4.1  w© 
obtain 

Fom  =  -2^[2Tl^~'nr' +  oT'] 

Fmo=  -8^ro'i7r~w"'  (4.3-5) 

Foo  =  frli/12 

In  these  expressions  m  is  supposed  to  have  the  values  1,  3,  5,  •  •  •  .  When 
m  is  even  Ffy^  and  Fmo  are  0(^^). 

Substituting  (4.3-5)  in  (4.3-2)  and  summing  the  series  with  the  heln 
of  the  values  of  (4.1-7)  given  in  Section  4.1  gives 

70  =  r^i  -  ^'ro'i(5  +  2aVoi)/60  (4.3-6) 

A  result  equivalent  to  (4.3-6)  has  been  given  by  Buchholz  who  also  gives 
the  approximation  to  the  propagation  constant  when  m  >  0  (and  the  elec- 
tric vector  in  the  plane  of  the  bend).  In  our  notation  his. approximation 
is 

+  i  (^i=)   (21  +  r'm') 
\irm  /  J 

In  writing  (4.3-7)  we  have  corrected  a  misprint  in  Buchholz's  expression. 
In  order  to  agree  with  Buchholz's  equation  (5.30a)  the  leading  term  within 
the  square  brackets  would  have  to  be  changed  from  3  to  —3.  This  change 
was  indicated  by  the  results  obtained  when  our  equation  (3.2-2)  was  used 
to  obtain  special  cases  of  (4.3-7).  Probably  the  best  way  of  obtaining 
(4.3-7)  is  furnished  by  Marshak's  method  (WKB  approximation,  out  to 
second  order  terms,  applied  to  Bessel's  differential  equation).  If  one  wishes 
to  verify  (4.3-7)  by  using  Marshak's  report^  as  a  guide,  he  should  correct 
the  misprint  in  Marshak's  equation  (12a). 

4.4  Reflection  Due  to  Dominant  Mode  Incident  upon  Gentle  Bend — E  in  Plane 
of  Bend 

The  problem  here  is  the  same  as  that  treated  in  Section  4.2  except  that 
now  the  electric  vector  lies  in  the  plane  of  the  bend.  In  line  with  equation 
(1.1-4),  the  reflection  coefficient /r  for  the  dominant  mode  will  be  denoted 
by  d^i .  As  in  Section  4.3  the  subscripts  indicating  the  position  of  matrix 
elements  will  be  adjusted  so  as  to  start  with  0  instead  of  1.  The  square 
matrix  W  given  by  (1.4-5),  and  associated  with  the  junction  conditions  for 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  333 

B  in  the  same  manner  as  V  is  associated  with  A,  now  replaces  V.    Thus 
our  expression  (3.3-13)  for  the  reflection  coefficient  becomes 

/^i  =  ^  =  -  [^i(sinh  2croi)/2  +  ^2]  (4.4-1) 

where  we  have  neglected  the  difference  in  Toi  and  70  and  where 

00 

Ai  =  2w,,  +  (t?  -  rSi)r^i'  -  E 


Tr  Om  TF,nO    + 2     _2      o 


V^  cosh  2croi  -  e~^'^^^ 
A2  =  Z^ 


=1       2r^iroi7r2(z-2m2 

From  TFoo  =  1  +  ^oo  and  the  asymptotic  expressions  (Al-19)  it  follows 
that,  for  w  =  1,  3,  5,  •  •  • 

Woo  =  t/^2 

-2     2  (^•4-^) 

TFo.  =  2^w  V  ',        Wm,  =  ^m  \-' 

For  even  values  of  m,  Wom  and  Wmo  are  0(^2)  Substitution  of  these  values 
together  with  those  for  the  F's  given  by  (4.3-5),  using  the  sums  (4.1-7) 
and  expression  (4.3-6)  for  70  —  Foi  leads  to 

Ai  =  ^2/12 

for  m  odd. 

Thus  the  reflection  coefficient  for  the  dominant  mode  when  E  lies  in  the 
plane  of  a  gentle  bend  of  length  2c  is  approximately 

,-             I'sinh  2croi    ,    ^'4roi      V      cosh  2croi  -  e-''"^"^'        , .  .    ., 
doi  = 7^ +  —-T-     2^      z;t^ (4.4-4) 

where  F^i  is  given  by  (4.3-1)  and  b  >  a. 

PART  V 

NUMERICAL  CALCULATIONS 

5.1  Bend  in  Plane  of  Magnetic  Vector 

Let  a/b  =  2.25  and  XoA  =  1.400  where  Xq  is  the  free-space  wavelength 
•      of   the   dominant  wave  striking   the  bend.     The  propagation   constant 


a^rto-       (\^^J  +  /-  -10.272 

aTiQ  =  i  3.20 

ahio  =  aVlo  +  St   =  19.336 

aT2Q  =  4.397 

a'Tlo=  a'r?o  +  87r'=' 68.684 

aTso  =  8.288 

334  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Tio  of  the  dominant  wave  is  obtained  by  setting  m  =  1,  w  =  0  in  (1.1-5). 
The  r's  corresponding  to  the  higher  modes  may  be  obtained  from  the 
same  formula: 


(5.1-1) 


We  shall  consider  a  90°  bend.  The  approximation  (4.2-6)  appropriate 
to  gentle  bends  becomes 

^-  =  i^''[-  .0122  sin  (5.03/^)  +  .0087  cos  (5.03/^)]        (5.1-2) 

where  the  exponential  terms  have  been  omitted  since  they  are  generally 
negligible.  In  (5.1-2),  ^  =  a/ pi  and  the  arguments  of  the  sine  and  cosine 
terms  arise  from  2crio  =  7rario/(2^).  From  (4.1-9)  the  approximate 
change  in  the  propagation  constant  produced  by  the  curvature  is  obtainable 
from 

7?  -  r?o  =  .294^7^'  (5.1-3) 

where  71  is  the  propagation  constant  of  the  dominant  mode  in  the  bend. 

The  determination  of  gto  by  matrix  methods  will  be  illustrated  for  a  90° 
bend  in  which  pi/a  =  0.6.  This  makes  c/a  =  pnr/{Aa)  =  .4712,  cViq  = 
il.510  and  the  appropriate  equations  in  (2.3-5")  and  (2.3-4)  become,  upon 
setting  /r  =  ig:ro  and  ft  =  gto  , 

gto  =  e'^'^ixi  -  yi)  =  (.061  +  i.99S)(xi  -  yO 

gTo  =  e'''\xi  +  yi)  -  e'''''''  =  (.061  +  i.99S){xi  +  yO  (5.1-^) 

+  .993  -  i.l21 

Here  xi ,  yi  are  the  top  elements  in  the  column  matrices  x,  y.  The  problem 
is  to  compute  x  and  y  from  the  matrix  equations  (2.3-3)  with  F  replaced 
by  Fa  ,  Fg  defined  by  (1.3-2)  with  ^  =  0,  and  h  a  column  matrix  whose 
elements  are  zero  except  the  top  one  which  is  unity.  Since  the  order  of  the 
matrices  is  infinite,  an  exact  solution  calls  for  an  infinite  amount  of  work. 
A  compromise  must  be  made  between  the  accuracy  desired  and  amount  of 
work  one  is  willing  to  do.  The  following  numerical  work  uses  third  order 
matrices. 
The  first  step  is  to  compute  the  square  matrix,  obtained  from  (1.3-5), 

aY\  =  P~\arl  +  aS)  (5.1-5) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


335 


The  elements  of  the  diagonal  matrix  a^Vl  are  given  by  (5.1-1)  and  those  of 
P  and  5  by  the  equations  and  tables  of  Appendix  I. 


a?T\ 


1.4429  .8812  .6821 

~^ 

-12.292 

3.3447  1.6087 

.8812  2.1250  1.3745 

-6.3039   16.369   6.9738 

.6821  1.3745  2.4879_ 

_  -3.5034  -11.3031  65.213 

-9.086    -1.785    -5.178" 

.157     17.218    -19.362 

.996    -13.566 

38.329 

(5.1-6) 


The  next  step  is  to  use  (5.1-6)  to  evaluate  the  coefficients  of  x  and  y  in 
(2.3-3).  The  square  matrices  VaC  tanh  r«c  and  VaC  coth  VaC  cause  most  of 
the  computational  difficulties.  We  shall  deal  with  these  matrices  by  using 
Sylvester's  theorem  (an  account  of  this  theorem  is  given  in  Section  3.9  of 
Reference®).  This  requires  the  determination  of  the  latent  roots  and  modal 
rows  of  aT\.  However,  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  matrices  in  ques- 
tion may  also  be  computed  from  cVa  (which  is  easily  obtained  from  a^r^) 
by  processes  which  employ  only  matrix  multiplication,  addition,  and  in- 
version. 
Thus,  setting  A    for  c  Fa, 


A     sinh  A 


cosh  A 


v4'       A^ 

3!  ^  5!  ^ 

a""      A^ 

2!        4' 


A  coth  A  =  (cosh  A){A-'^  sinh  A)'  ' 
A  tanh  A  =  A\A  coth  A)-"^. 

Although  the  series  always  converge,  they  do  so  too  slowly  to  be  of  use  in 
our  computations.     The  same  is  true  of  the  series 


A  tanh  A 


E  8^'  [(2m 


1)'//  +  44^'. 


For  the  matrices  we  shall  encounter  it  appears  best  to  use  Sylvester's 
theorem  even  though  this  requires  the  determination  of  the  latent  roots  and 
modal  rows  of  a  r«  .  The  square  matrix  formed  from  the  modal  rows* 
will  be  denoted  by  k. 


*  As  has  already  been  mentioned  in  the  footnote  associated  with  equation  (1.3-9),  we 
shall  use  the  notation  and  theory  set  forth  in  Sections  3.5  and  3.6  of  Reference'. 


336  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

We  shall  use  the  relations* 

VaC  tanh  T  aC  =  k~^  [yc  tanh  yc]d  k 

(5.1-7) 
TaC  cosh  TaC  =  K~'^  [yc  coth  yc]d  k 

where  the  subscript  d  on  the  brackets  stands  for  "diagonal"  matrix,  the 
i^^  element  in  the  principal  diagonal  of  [yc  tanh  yc]  a  being  7»(;  tanh  7iC  where 

Ti  c  =  c^T/a  (5.1-8) 

and  \i  is  the  ith  latent  root  of  a  F^  .     In  our  applications  yi  is  either  posi- 
tive real  or  positive  imaginary. 

From  (5.1-6)  the  Xi's  are  the  roots  of 


X  +  9.086  1.785  5.178 

-.157        X  -  17.218  19.362 

-.996  13.566  X  -  38.329 


(5.1-9) 


=  X3  -  46.461  X2  -  101. 96X  +  3464.5  =  0 

and  have  the  values 

Xi  =  -8.886,        X2  =  8.284,        X3  =  47.06  (5.1-10) 

The  elements  K21 ,  /C31  of  the  modal  row  [1,  K21 ,  /C31]  corresponding  to  Xi 
may  be  obtained  by  solving  the  two  equations  derived  from  the  last  two 
elements  of 

[1,  K21 ,  KsiKXi/ -  aV„)  =  0  (5.1-11) 

namely, 

1.785  +  (Xi  -  17.218)  K21  +  13.566  K31  =  0 

5.178  +  19.362  K21  +  (Xi  -  38.329)  kzi  =  0 

When  the  value  of  Xi  from  (5.1-10)  is  used  these  equations  yield 

/C21  =  .1593,        /C31  =  .1750 

Likewise,  the  first  and  third  elements  of 

lKn,l,Kz2]{\2l  -  aVl)  =  0 

and  the  first  and  second  elements  of 

[/C13  ,  K23  ,   1](X3/  -    arl)    =    0 

*  This  is  the  modal  row  matrix  analogue  of  equation  (11)  in  Section  3.6  of  the  Refer- 
ence*.   The  modal  rows  of  Ta  are  equal  to  the  modal  rows  of  a^Pa. 


REFLECTIONS  PROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


337 


give 


/ci2  —  .0465        K32  =       .6524 
Ku  =  .0165        K23  =  —.4555 
Thus,  the  numbers  entering  (5.1-7)  are 

r2C  =   .4712  (8.284)'^' 


yic  =  .4712  (-8.886)'^'  =  i  1.404 
7ictanh7ic  =  —8.382 
7ic  coth  7ic  =  .2354 

,1/2 


1.356 


73C  =  .4712  (47.06)^ 
73C  tanh  73C  =  3.228 
jzc  coth  73C  =  3.243 


3.233 


72C  tanh  'Y2C  =  1.187 
72C  coth  72C  =   1.549 

1 


.1593 

.1750 

.0465 

1 

.6524 

.0165 

-.4555 

1 

For  the  purpose  of  calculation  it  is  convenient  to  transform  (2.3-3)  by 
inserting  (5.1-7)  and  premultiplying  by  kV~^.     We  obtain 


([7c  tSinhyc]dK  +  kV~^Tqc)  x  =  kV  ^cToe    °h 
{[yc  coth  yclciK  +  kV~'Toc)  y  =  Kl^'cToe'^^h 


(5.1-12) 


in  which 


1 

.1593 

.1750 

"1.1204   .3911   .1629" 

.0465 

1 

.6524 

.3911  1.2833   .4946 

.0165 

—  .4555 

1 

_  .1629   .4946  1.3460^ 

.9492 

-.1992 

.0883" 

Tioc  =  i  1.510 

-.2608 

.7686 

.2339 

T20C  =     2.072 

.1427 

-.7900 

1.0160_ 

T3QC  =     3.905 

where  the  elements  of  V  are  obtained  from  the  formulas  and  tables  of  Ap- 
pendix  I. 

The  i     equation  of  the  set  obtained  by  writing  out  the  first  of  equations 
(5.1-12)  is 
3 
2  [K^^iC  tamhyiC  +  (KV-^)iiT]oc]xj  =  (kV-^JucT oie"^''     (5.1-13) 

where  (KF~^)ty  denotes  the  element  in  the  i*  row  andy*  column  of  kV~^, 
Kji  is  the  element  in  the  i'^  row  and /^  column  (note  the  reversal  of  the 
usual  convention  regarding  the  order  of  subscripts)  of  k,  kh  =  1,  and  h 
has  disappeared  because  it  is  a  column  matrix  whose  top  element  is  unity 
while  the  remaining  elements  are  zero.     It  will  be  noted  that  the   only 


338  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

imaginary  terms  in  (5.1-13)  occur  in  the  coefl&cients  of  xq  and  arise  from  the 
imaginary  quantity  Viqc.     By  making  the  substitution 

the  set  (5.1-13)  may  be  reduced  to 

3 

(KiiTtCtanh  7ic)i^i  +  S  U;»7»^  tanhyiC  +  {KV~'^)ijVjQc]uj  =  (kF"^)^ 

(5.1-15) 

in  which  the  coefficients  are  all  real.  It  should  be  noticed,  however,  that 
nothing  is  gained  by  making  the  substitution  (5.1-14)  when  the  frequency 
is  so  high  that  other  modes  in  addition  to  the  dominant  are  propagated. 

The  equation  for  y  corresponding  to  (5.1-15)  may  be  obtained  by  re- 
placing tanh  by  coth  and  u  by  v  where  now 

1  -h  Vi  Cl  10 

Incidentally,  if  we  set  7  =  1  in  (5.1-14)  and  (5.1-16)  and  substitute  in 
the  expressions  (5.1-4)  for  ^to  we  may  show  that,  since  ui  and  vi  are  real, 

I  gto  r  +  I  gro  P  =  1  (5.1-17) 

Equation  (5.1-17)  may  be  obtained  at  once  from  the  fact  that  the  energy 
of  the  waves  leaving  the  bend  must  equal  the  energy  of  the  incident  wave. 
It  may  also  be  shown  that  gTo  vanishes  when  uiVic^Fio  =  1. 

When  the  above  numbers  are  set  in  the  three  equations  obtained  from 
(5.1-15)  we  get 

-8.382  ui  -1.748  m  -1.122  u^  =  .9492 
.055  ui  +2.780  U2  +1.688  W3  =  -.2608 
.053  ui  -3.105  U2  +7.191  U3  =      .1427 

from   which 

ui=  -  .0940,        xi  =  .1400  +  i.0113 

The  equations  for  vi  obtained  by  substituting  coth  for  tanh  are 

.2354  vi  -  .3732  V2  +  .3861  vs  =  .9492 
.0717  vi  +  3.1417  V2  +  1.924  vz  =  -  .2608 
.0534  vi  —3.1143  V2  +  7.211  V3  =       .1427 


from  which 


vi  =  3.930,        yi  =  -.1045  +  i.9803 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  339 

When  these  values  are  set  in  (5.1-4)  we  finally  obtain 

gt^  =  .9822  +  i.l858 
^To  =  .0048  -  ^'.0255 

The  following  table  lists  values  ofgj)  obtained  by  the  methods  of  this 
section*.  Here  the  bend  is  in  the  plane  of  E^  a/b  =  2.25,  \o/a  =  1.400, 
where  Xo  is  the  free  space  wavelength  of  the  incident  wave,  pi  is  the 
radius  of  curvature  of  the  axis  of  the  guide.  The  smallest  possible  value  of 
pi/a  is  0.5.  The  term  "approx."  refers  to  equations  (5.1-2)  while  ''1st 
order",  "2nd  order",  etc.  refers  to  the  order  of  the  matrices  used  in  the 
computations.  The  ampHtude  of  the  reflected  wave  is  gTo  and  the  ampli- 
tude of  the  wave  sent  forward  is  gto  when  the  incident  wave  is  of  unit  ampli- 
tude. 

Pi/a                Approx.  1st  order  2nd  order  3rd  order 

.6  .964  +^267  .980  +i.l97  .982  +i.l86 

.7  .974  +i.224  .994  +i.l05  .994  +i.lll 

.8  .984  +i.l78  .997  +^.082  .997  +i.082 

.9  .988  +tM53  .997  +t.074  .997  +i.073 

1.0  .991  +tM35  .998  +f066  .998  +i.066 

1.2  .994  +^.110  .998  +i.056  .998  +i.056 

1.5  .996  +t.084  .999  +iM3  .999  +t.044 

gio 

.6  -i.0280  .0020  -t.0074  .0056  -i.0280  .0048  -i.0255 

.7  -i.0068  -.0005 +i.0023  .0013 -t.0131  .0007-^.0066 

.8  +i.0062  -.0013  +i.0074  -.0003  +i.0039  -.0004  +Z.0051 

.9  +i.0128  -  .0014  +t.0087  -  .0009  -|-i.0123  -  .0009  +i.0123 

1.0  +i.0143  -.0010+i.0075  - .0010 +f. 0148-  -.0010 -f t.0147 

1.2  +t.0079  -.0002+^.0018  -.0005+^.0086  -.0005 +i.0085 

1.5  -i.0040  +.0003  -t.0034  +.0002  -i.0041  +.0002  -z.0042 

It  appears  that  the  values  obtained  from  the  first  order  matrices  are  quite 
far  from  the  true  values.  On  the  other  hand  there  is  considerable  agreement 
between  the  approximation  and  the  second  and  third  order  values,  especially 
at  the  larger  values  of  pi/a. 

5.2  Bend  in  Plane  of  Electric  Vector 

The  calculations  for  this  case  are  quite  similar  to  those  presented  in  Sec- 
tion 5.1.     If  we  are  to  deal  with  the  same  waveguide  it  is  necessary  to 

*  The  computations  were  performed  by  Miss  M.  Darville.  I  am  also  indebted  to  her 
for  the  values  given  in  the  tables  in  Section  5,2  and  Appendix  I. 


340  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

interchange  the  dimensions  a  and  b  so  that  now  h/a  =  2.25  and,  for  the 
same  frequency,  Xo/^  =   1 .400. 

For  a  90°  bend  the  approximation  (4.4-4)  for  the  reflection  coefficient 
d^i  for  gentle  bends,  i.e.  for  ^  =  a/p\  small,  becomes 

d'^^  =  tf[-.0417  sin  (2.23/^)  +  .0209  cos  (2.23/^)] 

where  the  negUgible  exponential  terms  have  been  neglected  just  as  in  the 
analogue  (5.1-2)  for  gFo  . 

The  following  table,  which  is  similar  to  the  table  at  the  end  of  Section 
5.1,  gives  the  results  of  computations  for  bends  in  the  plane  of  the  electric 
vector. 


^i"o  . 

Pi/a 

Approx. 

1st  order 

2nd  order 

.6 

.823    +i.547 

.975    +i.223 

.7 

.887    +i.447 

.994    +i.051 

.8 

.921    +i.380 

.996    +i.042 

.9 

.941    +i.332 

.997    +i.035 

1.0 

.954    +i.295 

.998    +i.031 

1.2 

.970    +i.242 

.999    +t.023 

1.5 

.982    +i.l90 

-.0855+^.1284 

1.000    +i.017 

.6 

-i.0996 

-.0020 +i.  0086 

.7 

-i.0848 

-.0520+^.1031 

+  .0050 -i. 0975 

.8 

-i.0706 

-.0330+^.0800 

+  .0033  -i.0792 

.9 

-i.0575 

-.0214+^.0605 

+  .0022  -i.0635 

1.0 

-i.0457 

-.0137 +t.  0443 

.0021  -i.0507 

1.2 

-i.0258 

-.0051+^.0204 

.0007  -i.0282 

1.5 

-i.0051 

+  .0001  -t.0004 

.0001  -t.0062 

The  agreement  between  the  approximation  for  ^lo  and  its  second  order 
matrix  value  is  fairly  good  from  pi/a  =  .7  onward. 

APPENDIX  I 

Calculation  of  Ppm  etc.  for  Circular  Bend 

It  is  convenient  to  write  Ppm  and  Qpm  as  given  by  (1.2-10)  and  (1.2-15) 
in  the  form 

Ppm  =  5to  +  Rptrn        p,  m  =  1,  2,  3,  •  •  • 

(Al-1) 

Qkm  =  dZ+Tpm  ,  />,W  =  0,1,2,   •  •• 

where  8Z  is  unity  ii  p  —  m  and  is  zero  otherwise  and 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR^BENDS  341 


Rpm  =  (2 /a)   I     (pip  ^  —  \)s'm(Trpx/a)  sin  (irinx/a)  dx 
Jo 


(Al-2) 


(Al-4) 


Tpm  =  (ep/a)   I     (pip  "  —  l)cos{Trpx/a)  cos  {irmx/a)  dx 

in  which  eo  =  1,  €p  =  2,  p  =  1,2,  •  •  • 

In  (Al-2),  (1.2-11),  (1.2-16),  (1.4-3),  (1.4-6)  we  make  the  substitutions 

p  —  m  =  r,         u  =  pi  Tr/a  —  -wjl  =  p27r/a 
p  -^  m  =  s,         V  =  pi  T/a  +  7r/2  =  PsTr/a  _         (Al-3) 

y  =  TTx/a,         w  =  piT/a,         p  =  .r  +  pi  —  a/2  =  aiy  +  u)/7r 
Introduction  of  the  integrals 

Is  =  (I/tt)   /     [w'^(y  +  w)~"  —  1]  cos  sy  dy 
Jq 

=  (1/a)   I    (pip~^  —  1)  cos  (irsx/a)  dx 
Jq 

Ja  =  TT  I    — , —  dy  =  IT       sin  iirsx/a)  dx/p, 
Jo    y  -f-  u  Jo 

K,  =  ^J   r  ^  dy 
a  Jo    y  -\~  u 

enables  us  to  write 

Rpv,   =    Ir   —    la  ,  Spm    =    —mOT^Js  +  Jr) 

Tpm  =  ep{Ir  +  Is)/2,         Upm  =  mepar\J,  -  /,)/2        (Al-5) 

V^  =  Kr-  Ks,  Wpm=  ep{Kr  +  Ka)/2 

where  Is  and  K,  are  even  functions  of  5  and  /«  is  an  odd  function  of  s. 
Co  =  1  and  €p  =  2,  p  =  1,  2,  3,  ■  -  •  .     Since  w  and  u  depend  only  upon  the 
ratio  pi/fl,  the  values  of  Is ,  Ks  and  Js  depend  only  upon  pi/a  and  the 
integer  s.    These  quantities  are  tabulated  at  the  end  of  this  appendix. 
Setting  y  +  u  equal  to  /  gives 

Ja  =  IT  I    sin  s(t  —  u)  dt/t 

J  u 

=  Tr[Siisv)  —  Si{su)]  cos  su  —  Tr[Ci(sv)  —  Ci{su)]  sin  su 

where  Si  and  Ci  denote  the  integral  sine  and  cosine  functions.     Integrating 
by  parts  enables  us  to  express  Is  in  terms  of  J,  .     Thus 

/    (y  +  w)~2  cos  sy  dy  =  u~^  —  v~^  cos  sw  —  x~^  sJ,  (Al-7) 

Jq 


342  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

and 

/.  .=  7r-4e;2[w-i  -  {-)'v-^  -  tt-^Js]  (Al-8) 

except  when  5  =  0  in  which  case 

/o  =  Tr~^w\u~'^  —  v~^)  —  1  =  w^/iuv)  —  1 

(Al-9) 
=  iryiAuv)  =  [(2piA)2  -  l]-i 

When  pi/a  is  large,  u  and  v  are  large,  and  the  asymptotic  expansion  of 
(Al-6)  gives 

w~'Js   -'  s-'lu-'   -    (-)Vi]   -    2ls-'[u~'   -    (-)V]   +  •••     (Al-10) 

When  (Al-10)  is  placed  in  (Al-8) 

Is  --  Tr~'2lwh~\u~^  -  (-)V]  -  • .  •  (Al-11) 

Formulas  for  Ks  may  be  obtained  in  much  the  same  way. 


Ks  -  (pi/a)   /    cos  s{t  -u)  dt/t 

J  u 


(Al-12) 


=  {pi/a)l[Ci{sv)  —  Ci{su)]  cos  su  +  [5i(5^)  —  5z(^w)]sin  su] 
and  when  s  =  0 

Ko  =  (pi/a)  log  (1  +  ir/u)  (Al-13) 

The  asymptotic  expression  is 

apT  Ks  '^  5~  [u~   —  i—yv~  ]  —  3ls~  \u~   —  {—yv~  ]  +  •  •  • 

It  is  convenient  to  write  the  asymptotic  expressions  in  terms  of  the  new 
variable 

^  =  a/p,  (Al-14) 

When  s  is  even  and  greater  than  zero 

/.  ^  e/s,        Is  '-^  6^V-25-2,        Ks  ^  2^V-2^-2         (Al-15) 
and  when  s  is  odd 

/.  ^  2^/s,         I,  '^  4^7^-25-^         Ks  ^  2^T-h-^  (Al-16) 

When  5  =  0 

/o  --  ^/4,        ifiTo  --  1  +  ^V12  (Al-17) 

We  shall  need  the  following  asymptotic  expressions  which  may  be  obtained 
from  the  above  work 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


343 


Rim  =  Rmi  ^  mmir-Kfn'  -  1)-=^ 

Sim Smi,        Sirr,  ^  4:a-^^m{m'  -  \r' 

where  w  =  2,  4, 6,  •  •  •  .    Also,  if  now  m  =  1, 3,  5,  •  •  •  , 

Too    ^  ^V4,         t/oo  =  0,        TFoo  =  1  +  ^V12 
r^o  -^  8^m-V-2,         [7„o  =  0 

Fa/we^  o/  /« ,  Js  and  Kg 


(Al-18) 


(Al-19) 


Pi/a 

/o 

h 

h 

h 

h 

/6 

h 

5 

00 

00 

00 

00 

00 

00 

00 

.6 

2 

.2723  2.31879 

1.82979  1.43755 

1.14772 

.94432  . 

78458 

.7 

1 

.04166  1 

.28232 

.76232 

.53315 

.37692 

.28832  . 

22090 

.8 

.64103 

.88256 

.44628 

.29206 

.18995 

.14101  . 

09986 

.9 

.44643 

.68200 

.30111 

.18992 

.11546 

.08517  . 

05908 

1.0 

.33333 

.56052 

.22008 

.13637 

.07818 

.05814  . 

03865 

.1 

.26041 

.47844 

.16916 

.10459 

.05772 

.04298  . 

02759 

.2 

.21008 

.41905 

.13486 

.08413 

.04344 

.03361  . 

02056 

.3 

.17361 

.37361 

.11059 

.06961 

.03500 

.02732  . 

01633 

.4 

.14620 

.33780 

.09259 

.05926 

.03168 

.02293  . 

,01297 

.5 

.12500 

.30876 

.07872 

.05147 

.02315 

.01969  . 

01068 

2.0 

.06667 

.21803 

.04133 

.03080 

.01135 

2 

.5 

.04167 

.16980 

.02564 

.02217 

.00675 

Jo 

/i 

/2 

/3 

J* 

A 

/« 

.5 

0 

.6 

0 

3.99809  2.01979  2.31576  1 

.48355 

1.66348 

1.15716 

.7 

0 

3.21624  1. 

3054   1 

.58176 

.84936 

1.04899 

.61931 

.8 

0 

2.72356   . 

73339  1 

.21541 

.56683 

.77644 

.40134 

.9 

0 

2.37231   . 

70698 

.99327 

.41079 

.62183 

.28546 

1.0 

0 

2.10615   . 

55663 

.84343 

.31379 

.52170 

.21578 

1.1 

0 

1.89624   . 

45091 

.73508 

.24849 

.45123 

.16981 

1.2 

0 

1.72581   . 

37335 

.65279 

.20254 

.39869 

.13768 

1.3 

0 

1.58448   . 

31450 

.58812 

.16843 

.35788 

.11413 

1.4 

0 

1.46507   . 

26878 

.53573 

.14216 

.32515 

.09636 

1.5 

0 

1.3628 

23251 

.49238 

.12243 

.29825 

.08254 

2.0 

0 

1.0122 

12817 

.35299 

.06596 

2.5 

0 

.8062 

08128 

.27660 

.04140 

344  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

P\/a         Ko  Ki  Kt  Kz  Ki  Kb  K^ 

.5  00  OOOOOOOOOOOO 

.6  1.43874  .61659  .31832  .22547  .15539  .12199  .09275 

.7  1.25423  .42303  .17355  .11508  .06971  .05353  .03704 

.8  1.17306  .33141  .11439  .07463  .04093  .03195  .02038 

.9  1.12748  .27575  .08261  .05431  .02737  .02214  .01325 

1.0  1.09861  .23761  .06305  .04244  .01976  .01675  .00938 

1.1  1.07891  .20953  .04994  .03471  .01509  .01341  .00705 

1.2  1.06476  .18785  .04075  .02935  .01192  .01126  .00548 

1.3  1.05421  .17050  .03391  .02539  .00977  .00956  .00443 

1.4  1.04610  .15626  .02871  .02243  .00807  .00838  .00365 

1.5  1.03972  .14434  .02467  .02013  .00682  .00745  .00315 
2.0  1.02165  .10508  .01332  .01330  .00358 

2.5  1.01366  .08295  .00838  .01010  .00217 

APPENDIX  II 

Functions  of  Almost  Diagonal  Matrices 

Let  E  be  a  matrix  whose  elements  are  small  in  comparison  with  unity. 
It  is  then  often  possible  to  approximate  a  matrix  defined  as  some  function  of 
the  matrix  I  -\-  E,  where  /  is  the  unit  matrix,  by  the  expansion 

/(/  +  £)  =  7/(1)  +  ~f'(l)  +  JV"(1)  +  •  •  •  ■  (A2-1) 

Thus,  for  example,  when  we  take /(a)  to  be  z~^  we  obtain 

(/  +  £)-!  =  /  -  E  +  E2  -  • .  •  .  (A2-2) 

Here  we  shall  give  similar  formal  results  for  f(D  +  E)  where  now  Z>  is  a 
diagonal  matrix 


D  = 


di     0     '      0 
0     di     '      0 

0     0     0    di, 


(A2-3) 


whose  diagonal  elements  are  unequal  and  the  elements  E^  and  Eji  are  small 
in  comparison  with  the  absolute  value  oi  \  di  —  dj  |  .  We  shall  restrict 
ourselves  to  a  first  approximation  of  the  non-diagonal  terms  of  f(D  +  E) 
and  to  a  second  approximation  of  the  diagonal  terms.  The  results  are  closely 
related  to  the  ones  obtained  from  the  perturbation  theory  used  in  wave 
mechanics. 
We  assume  that/(Z)  +  E)  may  be  defined  by  the  series 

fiD  +  E)  =  aoI+  ai{D  -\- E)  +  a^^D  +  E)^  +  •  •  •        (A2-4) 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  345 

where  a„  is  a  scalar  and 

{D  +  £)2  =  (D  +  E)(D  +  E)  =  D^-\-  DE+  ED  +  E' 

and  so  on.     The  sum  of  the  terms  independent  of  E  is  f(D).    The  terms 
of  order  £  are 


EmD-\-  E 

1  {D  +  Ef 

(A2-5) 


DE  +  ED  in  {D  +  Ef 


Dm  +  Z)£Z)  +  £Z>2  in  (Z)  +  £)' 

2  Z)^£Z)'"  in  (Z>  +  ET 

where  the  summation  extends  over  the  non-negative  integer  values  of  I 
and  m  for  which  /  +  w  =  n—  1 .  The  element  in  the  ith  row  and^th  column 
of  D  ED^  is  cTiEijd^  and  hence  the  corresponding  element  in  the  summa- 
tion in  (A2-5)  is 

£,,-S^^=  ^_^  (A2-6) 

\n  di    ,        I  =  j. 

Thus  the  terms  of  order  E  in  the  ith.  row  and  yth  column  of  f{D  +  E)  are, 
from  (A2-6)  and  (A2-4), 

^'  -  ^i  (A2-7) 

£»/'  {d,),        i  =  j 

where  the  prime  on/  denotes  its  first  derivative. 
The  terms  of  order  £'  in  {D  +  Ef  are 

S  D'ED^ED""  =   E  [^i£i;]MMf£t7^]Af  (A2-8) 

where  the  summations  extend  over  all  the  non-negative  integer  values  of 
k,  -C,  m  for  which  k-{-^+m  =  7i—  2.  On  the  right  [diEij\M  denotes  a 
square  matrix  whose  element  in  the  ith  row  and  yth  column  is  diE^  . 
Likewise  the  second  factor  in  brackets  is  a  matrix  having  diEij(fj  in  the  ith 
row  andyth  column.  The  element  in  the  ith  row  and  jth  column  of  (A2-8) 
is,  from  the  rule  for  the  product  of  two  matrices, 


If  t,  s,  andy  are  unequal  the  sum  in  k,  I,  m  is 

1        r^*^  —  d^  _  dj  —  (/"  I 
di  —  dj  \_di  —  d,         dj  —  (i»  J 


346  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

and  in  case  of  equality  the  sum  may  be  found  by  a  limiting  process.  Since 
we  are  interested  in  this  order  of  approximation  only  for  the  diagonal  terms 
we  set  i  =  j  and  obtain  for  the  sum 

jn— 1  jti  jn 

ndi  di   —  a. 


di  —  ds       {di  —  d^y ' 


I  9^  s 


n(n  —  1)     n-2 

Thus  the  contribution  to  the  ith  diagonal  element  of  f(D  +  E)  from  terms 
of  type  (A2-8)  is 

fn*,H.r.,.^[,^,-'M^']    («-« 

where  the  prime  on  S  indicates  that  the  term  s  =  iis  to  be  omitted. 

Thus,  to  summarize,  we  may  say  that  the  first  approximation  to  the  non- 
diagonal  term  in  the  ith  row  and^th  column  (i  9^  j)  oif{D  -\-  E)  is 

E./'^j-y  (A2-10) 

di  —  dj 

and  the  second  approximation  to  the  diagonal  term  in  the  ith  row  and  ith 
column  oif{D  +  E)  is 

,  f,  p  ^  r  m)  _  m  -  mi   ^^^""^ 

where  the  primes  on  /  denote  derivatives  and  the  prime  on  2  indicates  that 
the  term  5  =  i  is  to  be  omitted. 

Two  results  obtained  from  (A2-10)  and  (A2-11)  are  of  interest.  For 
the  first  result  we  set/(2)  =  z~^  and  get  the  following  approximations  to  the 
elements  of  (D +  £)-!: 

-  Ei^idi  di)-\        i  ^  j 

r  1^  -1  (A2-12) 

dT'  -  dT'  \Eii  -  E  Ei.Esrd::'\,        i  =  j. 

For  the  second  result  we  set  f{z)  =  z^'^  and  obtain  the  following  approxi- 
mations to  the  elements  of  {D  +  eY'^: 


E,i(dr  +  d)'Y\    i^j 


dT  +  Jd7"'  [£«  -  E  E,.E.,{dT  +  dTr'\  , 
In  (A2-12)  and  (A2-13)  the  summations  include  the  term  s  =  i. 


(A2-13) 
i  =  ;. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS 


347 


We  shall  now  state  several  results  related  to  the  above  formulas.  Let  u 
denote  the  matrix  Z)  +  E  so  that  the  typical  element  iiij  =  En  ,  i  9^  j, 
and  Uii  =  di-{-  Eii .  Then  the  latent  roots  Xi  ,  As  ,  •  •  •  Xa-  of  u  are  the  roots 
of  the  equation  obtained  by  setting  the  determinant  of  X/  —  u  to  zero: 

X   —    Wii  — Wi2 

—  W21       X  —  U22 


\\I 


=  0. 


(A2-14) 


The  modal  column  kj  corresponding  to  the^th  root  X/  satisfies  the  matrix 
equation 

(Xy/  -  u)kj  =  0.  (A2-15) 

Since  the  non-diagonal  elements  of  u  are  small,  we  see  from  (A2-14)  that 
we  may  label  the  roots  so  as  to  make  Xy  nearly  equal  to  w/y ,  and  this  together 
with  (A2-15)  shows  that  all  the  elements  of  ^yare  nearly  zero  except  the  7th 
which  we  may  choose  to  be  unity.  When  these  approximate  values  are 
taken  as  a  first  approximation  in  the  process  of  solving  (A2-15)  by  successive 
approximations,  the  second  approximation  is  found  to  be 


Xy   =   Ujj  +  YJ 


^ij    "T"    /   J     Ujs  Ksj 


ki 


\hi  ] 

hi 

1 

_kxj_ 

(A2-16) 


k  ■  = 


s^j 


where  the  1  in  the  column  for  kj  occurs  as  the^th  element.    This  expression 
for  Xy  occurs  in  the  perturbation  method  often  used  in  wave  mechanics. 
For  the  modal  row  kj  corresponding  to  Xy  we  have  in  much  the  same  way 

Kj{\jl  —    U)    =    0 
Kj    =    [Kij  ,   K2i  ,    ■  '  •      Kjj  ,    "  '    KNj]  (A2-17) 


wjV  Us 


where  the  last  expression  is  an  approximation  and  where  /cyy  may  be  chosen 
at  our  convenience. 

The  results  (A2-10)  and  (A2-11)  may  also  be  obtained  from   (A2-2), 
(A2-16)  and  the  relation* 

~f{Xi)        0        •         0 
0       /(X2)     •         0 


f(u)  =  k 


0 


0 


/(^i^). 


k-' 


(A2-18) 


*  This  is  equation  (12)  in  Section  3.6  of  Reference^,     .\lthough  proved  only  for  poly- 
nomials it  may  be  verified  to  be  true  for  the  applications  which  we  shall  make. 


348  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where  k  is  the  square  matrix  [^i ,  ^« ,  •  •  •  ^jv]  composed  of  the  modal  columns 
kj ,  and  the  latent  roots  are  assumed  to  be  distinct.  The  element  in  the  ith 
row  andy  column  of  hr'^  is,  to  our  order  of  approximation,  equal  to  —kij 
when  i  7^  j  and  to 

l-^ll'hshi  (A2-19) 

8  =  1 

when  i  —  j.  Here,  as  usual,  the  prime  on  S  indicates  that  the  term  s  =  j. 
is  to  be  omitted. 

Another  result  which  is  sometimes  useful  is  the  approximate  solution  of 
UnXi  +  ^12:^2  +  •  •  •  +  UipXp  +  •  •  •      UinXn-  =  r;i 
W2i:)Ci  +  U22X2  +  •  •  •  +  U2pXp  +  •  •  •  +  U2nXn'  =  1)2     (A2-20) 


Up\X\  +  Up2X2  +    •  •  •   +  UppXp  +    •  •  •   +  UpnXn   =    Vj 


where  \  Vj\  "^l  Vp\,J  ^  P,  and  the  w's  are  of  the  type  assumed  in  (A2-14) : 
Xi  =  ^'  -  ^^^^^ ,        J9^p  (A2-21) 

Uj-j-  UjjUpp 

N 

tjp    .   v^/     Upg     f  V 

Xp  ^  —  -Y  2^  2~  ('7p^«p  -  t]sUpp). 

Upp  «=1    ^aa  l^pp 

The  prime  on  S  indicates  that  the  term  s  —  p  (which  happens  to  be  zero 
here)  is  to  be  omitted.  A  somewhat  more  general  result  which  states  that 
the  ith  element  in  the  column  matrix  {D  +  E)~  t]  is 


N 

1 

8=.l 


VidT'  +tl  Eu  d7'  d7\Esi  Vi  -  di  rjs)  (A2-22) 


may  be  derived  from  (A2-12).    Here  the  elements  of  the  column  matrix 
need  not  be  restricted  hy  \  rjj\  <^\  7jp\yj  9^  p. 

References 

1.  Der  Einfluss  der  Kriimmung  von  rechteckigen  Hohlleitern  auf  das  Phasenmass 

ultrakurzer  Wellen,  E.  N.  T.,  16,  73-85  (1939). 

2.  Research  on  Wave  Guides  and  Electromagnetic  Horns  (Report  III),  E.  T.  /.,  4,  64-67 

(1940). 

3.  Unpublished  work  concerned  with  elbows  of  small  radius  of  curvature  and  minimum 

reflection. 


REFLECTIONS  FROM  CIRCULAR  BENDS  349 

4.  Electromagnetic  Waves  in  a  Bent  Pipe  of  Rectangular  Cross-Section,  Quart.  A  pp. 

Math.,  1,  328-333  (1944).     See  also  a  note  on  this  paper  by  S.  A.  Schelkunoff  in 
the  same  journal  2,  171  (1944). 

5.  Theory  of  Circular  Bends  in  Rectangular  Wave  Guides,  Rod.  Lab.  Report  43-45, 

June  24,  1943.     An  abstract  under  the  number  PB2869  appears  in  Bibl.  Sci.  and 
Indus.  RepL,  Vol.  1,  No.  7,  p.  253. 

6.  Electromagnetic  Waves,  D.  Van  Nostrand,  New  York  (1943). 

7.  Steady  State  Solutions  of  Transmission  Line  Equations,  B.  S.  T.  /.,  20,  131-178  (1941). 

8.  H.  T.  Davis,  The  Theory  of  Linear  Operators,  Principia  Press  (1936). 

9.  Frazer,  Duncan  and  Collar,  Elementary  Matrices,  Camb.  Univ.  Press  (1938). 
10.  K.  Knopp,  Theory  and  Application  of  Infinite  Series,  Blackie  and  Son  (1928). 


The  Approximate  Solution  of  Linear  Differential  Equations 

By  MARION  C.  GRAY  and  S.  A.  SCHELKUNOFF 

Linear  differential  equations  with  variable  coefficients  occur  in  man>'  fields  of 
applied  mathematics:  in  the  theories  of  acoustics,  elastic  waves,  electromagnetic 
waves  in  stratified  media,  nonuniform  transmission  lines,  wave  guides,  antennas, 
wave  mechanics.  The  "Wave  Perturbation"  method  described  in  greater  detail 
elsewhere^  is  particularly  useful  in  those  ranges  of  the  independent  variable  in 
which  the  "WKB  Approximation"  is  not  sufficiently  accurate.  The  present 
paper  endeavors  to  illustrate  the  remarkable  accuracy  of  this  method,  particu- 
larly when  compared  with  Picard's  method. 

I.  Introduction 

IN  A  recent  paper^  the  approximate  solution  of  linear  differential  equations 
by  a  wave  perturbation  method  was  described.  When  the  method  was 
appHed  to  equations  whose  exact  solutions  were  known  we  were  greatly 
impressed  by  the  rapidity  of  convergence  of  the  successive  approximations. 
Hence  the  purpose  of  this  note  is  to  present  some  illustrations  in  the  hope 
that  others  may  be  interested  and  may  find  the  proposed  method  an  im- 
provement on  those  now  in  use. 

In  essence  the  wave  perturbation  method  dates  back  to  Liouville-,  but 
in  his  memoires  he  was  interested  in  a  problem  of  heat  conduction  .involving 
a  non-homogeneous  differential  equation  with  homogeneous  boundary 
conditions,  whereas  we  consider  a  homogeneous  equation 

/'  =  F(x)y  (1) 

with  non-homogeneous  initial  conditions 

y{a)=\,y{a)  =  0  (2a) 

or 

y{a)  =  0        y(a)  =  1,  (2b) 

the  solution  being  desired  in  an  interval  a  ^  x  ^  b.  Since  the  solution 
for  any  assigned  initial  or  boundary  conditions  can  be  expressed  as  a  linear 
combination  of  the  solutions  satisfying  (2a)  and  (2b)  we  have  not  imposed 
any  real  limitation. 

II.  Theory 

Comparison  of  the  wave  perturbation  method  with  Picard's  method 
(which  is  essentially  a  linear  perturbation  method)  is  particularly  instruc- 

350 


LINEAR  DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS  351 

tive.  It  will  be  recalled  that  in  Picard's  formulation  the  differential  equa- 
tion (1)  is  replaced  by  an  integral  equation 

y{x)   =  y{a)  -}-  {x  -  a)/ {a)  +   f   F{u)y{u){x  -  u)  du  (3) 

•'rt 

where  y{a)  and  y'{a)  are  assigned  initial  values*.     Writing 

Lo{x)  =  y{a)  +  {x  -  a)y{a),  (4) 

Lnix)  =    I    F{u)Ln-i{u){x  —  u)  du,  n  =  1,2,3,  '"  , 

the  series 

y{x)  =  Lo{x)  +  L,(x)  +  L2(x)  +  •  •  •  (5) 

is  shown  to  converge  to  a  solution  of  the  original  equation.  In  practical 
applications,  unfortunately,  it  is  usually  found  that  the  successive  approxi- 
mations converge  rather  slowly  unless  the  interval  (a,  b)  is  small. 

In  the  wave  perturbation  method  we  first  rewrite  equation  (1)  in  the 
form 

y-  =  -^'y  +  1^2  +  F{x)]y  =  -^y  +  f{x)y,  (6) 

and  instead  of  the  integral  equation  (3)  we  use 


y{x)  =  y{a)  cos  ^{x  "  ^)  +  B  >''(^)  sin  ^{x  -  a) 
-\-  -  I    fMyM  sin  ^{x  —  u)  du. 


(7) 


The  parameter  ^  is  arbitrary  and  might  be  defined  in  various  ways.     We 
have  found  it  convenient  to  use  the  definition 


0'=  -  f^  (  Fix)  dx,  (8) 

0  —  a  Ja 


so  that  if  F{x)  is  negative  /3  is  real  and  our  first  approximation 

Woix)  =  y{a)  cos  ^{x  -  «)  +  ^  y'M  sin  ^{x  -  a)  (9) 

is  sinusoidal.     If  F  is  positive  /3  is  imaginary  and  we  start  with  an  exponen- 
tial approximation.     If  F  changes  sign  in  (a,  b)  the  best  procedure  is  to 

*  This  is  not  quite  the  usual  form  of  the  integral  equation   but  it   is  substantially 
equivalent. 


352  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

subdivide  the  interval  and  obtain  separate  approximations,  though  this  is 
not  necessary  if  F  is  predominantly  of  one  sign  throughout  (a,  h).  To  (9) 
we  now  add  the  sequence 

Wn{x)  ={[  f{u)Wn-iiu)  sin  ^(x  -  u)  du,  (lO) 

P  •'a 

and  the  series 

y{x)  =  W,{x)  +  Wr{x)  +  W^{x)  +  . . .  (11) 

is  the  desired  solution. 

The  flexibility  of  the  wave  perturbation  method  as  compared  with  Picard's 
linear  method  lies  essentially  in  the  introduction  of  the  variable  parameter  /3. 
Since  we  make  jS  depend  on  the  length  of  the  interval  (a,  h)  in  which  a  solu- 
tion is  desired  the  approximations  may  be  extended  over  much  longer 
intervals  than  is  feasible  in  Picard's  method.  If  F{x)  is  a  slowly  varying 
function  throughout  (a,  h),  so  that /(a:)  is  small,  it  will  be  found  that  the 
first  approximation  Wq{x)  is  good,  and  the  second,  Wq  +  Wi  is  generally 
adequate. 

Another  choice  for  ^  is 


/8  =  ^-i-  f   V-/^W  dx. 

0  —   CL  Ja 


(12) 


However,  the  integration  in  (8)  will  often  be  simpler  than  in  (12). 

Picard's  method  is  a  special  case  of  the  wave  perturbation  method,  with 
|8  =  0.  In  fact,  if  F{x)  changes  sign  in  (a,  h),  then  in  some  cases  jS  as  defined 
by  (8)  will  reduce  to  zero. 

If  F{x)  is  a  rapidly  varying  function,  or  if  the  solution  is  desired  over  an 
infinite  interval,  it  is  usually  advantageous  to  transform  equation  (1)  by 
first  introducing  a  new  independent  variable 

e  =  j   V^Hx)  dx,  (13) 

and  then  removing  the  first  order  term  in  the  new  equation  by  an  appro- 
priate transformation  of  the  dependent  variable. 

III.  Examples 

For  our  illustrations  we  have  used  mainly  the  simple  equation 

/'  =  -xy  (14) 

whose  exact  solution  can  be  expressed  in  terms  of  Bessel  functions  of  order 
d=  1/3.    Since  the  Bessel  functions  are  oscillatory  in  nature  it  might  be 


LINEAR  DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS  353 

suggested  that  comparison  with  Picard's  method  is  weighted  in  our  favor. 
This  does  not  seem  to  be  the  case,  as  will  be  illustrated  in  example  4  where 
the  exact  solution  is  a  monotonically  increasing  function.  It  has  also  been 
suggested  that  Picard's  solution  might  be  improved  by  starting  from  a  better 
initial  approximation,  say  Wq  ,  rather  than  from  the  linear  approximation 
Lq  ,  but  we  have  not  found  any  marked  improvement  in  the  succeeding 
approximations  (see  examples  1  and  2).  The  various  points  of  interest 
will  be  brought  out  in  our  examples,  with  the  accompanying  figures,  which 
we  shall  now  briefly  describe.  In  each  figure  the  heavy  curve  is  the  ac- 
curate solution  while  the  approximations  are  indicated  by  self-explanatory 
letters. 
Example  1,  Fig.  1 

y''  =  -rry,  0  ^  X  ^  2 

y(0)  =  1,  y(0)  =  0 

Exact  solution:  y{x)  =  V{l)r^'^ x'^  J-^  {Ix"") 

(a)  Wave    perturbation 

Wq  —  cos  X 

Wi  =  -\x  cos  X  +  i(l  +  2ic  -  x')  si 

(b)  Linear  perturbation 

Lo  =  1 

(c)  Linear  perturbation  using  initial  sinusoidal  approximation 

Lq  =  cos  a:  =  Wq 
Li  =  X  -{-  X  Qos  X  —  2  sin  x 
Example  2,  Figs.  2,  3  and  4 

y  =  -xy,  2  ^  a;  ^  6 

y(2)  =  0,  y\2)  =  1 
Exact  solution: 

y{x)  =  -,2.mZx"'j.„^{ix'")  -  .Q\929\x"^Jx,z{ix"') 


354 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


LINEAR  DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS 


355 


\ 

V 

\ 

S^ 

^ 

N^ 

V^,^ 

N 

^*% 

^^ 

X 

^ 

Ss^ 

N 

\ 

^% 

N 

X 

N 

\ 

N 

)) 

<^ 

t. 

ii^  y* 

7 

'^^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

y 

^^ 

x^V^" 

^' 

^^ 

^ 

.^ 

^^' 

^ 

^^ 

,^ 

^ 

^ 

y^ 

/ 

-f 

/ 

4 

1 

\ 

[ 

> 

% 

^. 

^ 

V 

\ 

::v. 

^x 


356 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


V 

\ 

\, 

\ 

V 

\ 

\, 

s 

\ 

^ 

' 

N 

\ 

+ 

o 

_l 

\, 

\ 

\ 

\ 

/ 

— 

\ 

/ 

+ 

-J 

+■ 

o 

-I 

"^ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

J 

/ 

^ 

/ 

/. 

/ 

^ 

V 

y 

_l 

+• 

J' 

\ 

/ 

A 

\ 

/ 

/ 

« 

_l     > 

J 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

^x 


be 


1 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  357 

(a)  Wave  perturbation,  Fig.  2 

Wq  =  Jsin2(:x:  -  2) 

W.  =  ^^in2(.  -  2)  +  'l^^±l..s2{x  -  2). 

Figure  2  exhibits  rapid  pulling  of  the  successive  approximate  waves  to- 
ward the  exact  even  though  the  interval  has  been  chosen  deliberately 
unfavorable  to  the  straight  wave  perturbation  method  [see  example  (c) 
and  Fig.  4  for  the  improved  treatment]. 

(b)  Linear  perturbation,  Fig.  3 

Lq  =  X  —  2 

L^  =  -r^  (16  -  16x  +  4:^3  -  x'') 

'  63  "^  45  9         9        90  "^  504* 

> 

Using  Wq  instead  of  Lo 

£i  =  i  -  I  +  ^sin  2{x  -  2)  +  i  cos  2{x  -  2). 

(c)  Preliminary  transformation  of  variables,  Fig.  4 
Introduce  6  =  ^x'^,  y  =  d~^'^v 

and  the  modified  equation  is 

Then,  using  for  simplicity  ^3  =  1 

vo  =  2-'V  sin  {d  -  Bo),  do  =  4^/2// 
or 

Wo  =  (2xr'''  sin  Ux"  -  2'") 

It  will  be  seen  that  Wq  is  a  very  good  approximation  throughout  the 
range  (2,  6).    Adding  Wi  obtained  from 

vi  =  — ^  [cos(<9  +  do)  (Si  2d  -  Si  200)  -  sin((?  +  (?o)(Ci2^  -  Ci  2do)] 
36V2 

the  accurate  curve  y  is  reproduced. 

In  Fig.  2  the  third  approximation  could  not  be  distinguished  from  the 
accurate  curve  though  numerically  the  values  are  not  identical.  For 
purposes  of  comparison  the  table  of  numerical  values  (Table  A)  may  be 
found    interesting. 


358 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


^  ?<  ^ 


bo 


LINEAR  DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS 

T.4BLE    A 


359 


1 

2 

s 

X 

y 

Wo 

^w 

0 

^W 

0 

2.0 

0. 

0. 

0. 

0. 

0. 

2.2 

.19721 

.19471 

.19720 

.19721 

.19721 

2.4 

.37694 

.35868 

.37668 

.37694 

.37694 

2.6 

.52056 

.46602 

.51885 

.52053 

.52056 

2.8 

.61035 

.49979 

.60442 

.61020 

.61034 

3.0 

.63236 

.45465 

.61792 

.63180 

.63232 

3.2 

.57922 

.33773 

.55169 

.57781 

.57918 

3.4 

.45287 

. 16749 

.40907 

.44995 

.45726 

3.6 

.26584 

-  .02919 

.20603 

.26085 

.26561 

3.8 

.04126 

-.22126 

-  .02974 

.03408 

.04087 

4.0 

-.18921 

-  .37840 

-.26229 

-  . 19800 

-.18974 

4.2 

-  .38951 

-  .47580 

-  .45326 

-.39852 

-  .39011 

4.4 

-.52506 

-  .49808 

-.56889 

-.53240 

-.52557 

4.6 

-.56943 

-.44173 

-.58697 

-.57328 

-.56964 

4.8 

-.51062 

-.31563 

-.50217 

-.51000 

-.51044 

5.0 

-.35548 

-.13971 

-.32847 

-.35076 

-  .35494 

5.2 

-  . 13068 

.05827 

-  .09772 

-.12364 

-.13006 

5.4 

-  . 12052 

.24706 

.14547 

.12725 

. 12080 

5.6 

.34582 

.39683 

.35200 

.34988 

.34536 

5.8 

.49485 

.48396 

.47807 

.49525 

.49347 

6.0 

.53114 

.49467 

.49467 

.52903 

.52903 

Example  3,  Fig.  5 


y" 

v(l) 


-V  + 


1,  y(i)  =  0 


\    <    X<      00 


Exact  solution:  y{;x)  =  sin  (x  —  1)  +  -  cos  (x  —  1) 

X 

(a)  Wave  perturbation,  with  the  initial  conditions  satisfied  exactly 

ITo  =  cos  (x  —  1) 

Wi  =  2  sin  (a:  -  1)  -  2  cos  (x  +  1)  (Ci  2x  -  Ci  2) 
-  2  sin  {x  +  1)  (Si  2x  -  Si  2) 

(b)  Wave  perturbation,  matching  the  exact  solution  at  infinity 

Wo  =  sin  (x  -  1) 

Wi  =  2  sin  (x  +  1)  Ci  2x  -  2  cos  (x  +  l)(Si  2x  -  x/2) 

This  is  an  example  of  a  solution  in  an  infinite  interval,  where  the  per- 
turbation term  is  not  small  throughout.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the 
second  form  gives  good  agreement  with  the  accurate  solution  in  most  of 
the  range  of  integration. 


360 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


x^ 

-^ 

■^^ 

>, 

^ 

^^ 

"^ 

^^ 

■^ 

V 

.^ 

^^ 

-^ 

^ 

^ 

/ 

^ 

>^ 

,^ 

^ 

/ 

^ 

N. 

^ 

-^ 

( 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

\ 

/ 

V 

\ 

^.^ 

"-- 

^^ 

^ 

-^^ 

:-^ 

«» 

\ 

N 

* 

^^ 

-^ 

»^^. 

^, 

•^ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

"^ 

^ 

^"i 

"^ 

■^ 

^^ 

^ 

N 

"^ 

1> 

/      N 

) 

^ 

> 

\ 

/ 

1 

^^ 

-- 

^ 

-1 

■^''. 

^ 

^ 

^ 

/ 

/ 

^ 

,^^ 

^ 

/ 

// 

t 

^ 

^- 

^^ 

f^^  ■ 

/ 

K 

^ 

^ 

i 

?B 

\ 

y 

'"'^ 

^3 

^\ 

K 

^   . 

LINEAR  DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS 


361 


^ 

\ 

-t- 

N. 

\ 

\, 

\ 

V 

*i 

N 

\ 

-J 

\ 

\ 

\ 

O^ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

v 

\ 

\ 

N 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

1^ 

\ 

' 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

362 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Example  4,  Fig.  6 

y  =  -\-  xy,  0  ^  X  ^  2 

>;(0)  =  1,  y(0)  =  0 
Exact  solution: 

y{x)  =  r(f)3-'^'"/-„3(|/'^). 
(a)  Wave  perturbation 
Wq  =  cosh  X 

X 

Wi  =  —  -  cosh  X  +  l{x-  —  2:*:  +  1)  sinh  x 


(b)  Linear   perturbation 


Lo=  1 


Li  = 


This  is  an  example  in  which  the  exact  solution  is  non-oscillatory  yet  even 
in  the  short  interval  (0,  2)  Wq  +  Wi  is  a  better  approximation  than  Lo  + 

Example  5,  Table  I 

/'  +  -  y  +  3'  =  0,     0  <  a:  ^  oc 

X 

Solution  required  to  match  the  accurate  solution 

y{x)  =  Jq{x)  —  i  N{i{x) 
at  infinity: 

\\  0  =   ^^=  e 
-Vttx 


Table  I 

X 

/o  -  iWo 

Wo 

#0  +  Wi 

Wo  +  Wi  +  Wi 

10 

-.2459  -/  .0557 

-.2468  -1 

.0526 

-.2460  -/  .0557 

9 

-.0903  -i   .2499 

-  .0938  -1 

.2489 

-.0903  -/  .2500 

m 

.1717  -i  .2235 

.1683  -/ 

.2264 

.1717  -/  .2235 

7 

.3001  -{-i  .0259 

.3009  +1 

.0207 

.3001  +j  .0260 

6 

.1506 +i  .2882 

.1568+/ 

.2855 

.1507  +/  .2883 

5 

-.1776  4-i  .3085 

-.1704  + 

.3135 

-.1777  +/  .3086 

4 

-  .3975  -\-i   .0169 

-  .3979  +j 

.0291 

-.3973  +/  .0169 

3 

-.2601  -/  .3769 

-.2765  -« 

.3684 

-.2601  -/  .3772 

2 

.2239  -t  .5104 

.1967  -J 

.5288 

.2246  -/  .5109 

1 

.7652  -i   .0883 

.7796-/ 

.1699 

.7683  -/  .0860 

.7651  -/  .0882 

0.8 

.8463  4-t  .0868 

.8920  -/ 

.0130 

.8499  +/  .0916 

.8461  +/  .0868 

0.6 

.9120  +»  .3086 

1.0124  +/  .1899 

.9152  +j  .3183 

.9116  +/  .3084 

LINEAR  DIFFERENTIAL  EQUATIONS 

For  values  of  x  less  than  1  W^,  was  evaluated  numerically. 
Example  6,  Table  II 


363 


y"^\^'  =  i^x^-^^^  1^:.^3. 


:y(i)  =  1, 


y(i)  =0. 


The  solution  of  this  equation  using  Picard's  method  and  the  integraph 
has  been  described  by  Thornton  C.  Fry.^  We  compare  his  results  with  those 
obtained  by  the  wave  perturbation  method.  The  equation  is  first  reduced 
to  normal  form  by  the  substitution  y  =  oc~^'^  u,  so  that 


""  =  (-^+A)~ 


and  we  have  ^  =  J\/3.     Then 


x"'  Wo  =  cos  iS  (x  -  1)  +  ^  sin  ^(x  -  1) 


2^ 


1/2 


'^■'  =  if(^^-Oh^^"-^^ 


+  ^  sin  j8(«  —  1)     sin  0(x  —  u)  du. 

While  Wi  may  be  evaluated  in  terms  of  Ci  and  Si  functions  the  values 
tabulated  below  were  obtained  by  numerical  integration.  The  values  of 
the  accurate  solution 

y  =  1.4034 /i(x)  -  0.3251  N^{x), 

and  of  the  third  and  eighth  Picard  approximations,  are  copied  from  Fry's 
paper. 

Table  II 


X 

. 

yi 

yi 

R'o 

ITo  +  Wi 

1.0 

1.000 

1.000 

1.000 

1.000 

1.000 

1.2 

.998 

.998 

.998 

.990 

.998 

1.4 

.985 

.984 

.986 

.961 

.985 

1.6 

.956 

.951 

.955 

.913 

.956 

1.8 

.908 

.894 

.910 

.848 

.908 

2.0 

.842 

.809 

.844 

.769 

.842 

2.2 

.759 

.694 

.760 

.677 

.758 

2.4 

.659 

.548 

.661 

.575 

.659 

2.6 

.547 

.370 

.549 

.466 

.547 

2.8 

.425 

.156 

.427 

.352 

.427 

3.0 

.297 

-.096 

.300 

.236 

.300 

364  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

References 

1.  S.  A.  Schelkunoff,  Solution  of  linear  and  slightly  nonlinear  equations,  Quart.  A  pp.  Math.f 

vol.3,  p.  348,  Jan.,  1946. 

2.  J.  Liouville,  Memoires  sur  le  developpement  des  fonctions  ou  parties  de  fonctions  en 

series  dont  les  divers  termes  sont  assujetis  a  satisfaire  a  une  meme  equation  differen- 
tieile  du  second  ordre,  contenant  un  parametre  variable,//,  de  Math:  Pureset  Appl.y 
V.  i,  p.  253-265,  1836,  v.  2,  p.  16-35  and  p.  418-436,  1837.  A  brief  discussion  of 
the  method  will  be  found  in  "Numerical  studies  in  differential  equations"  by  H. 
Levy  and  E.  A.  Baggott,  London,  1934;  but  these  authors  apply  it  to  the  numerical 
solution  of  non-linear  equations  and  do  not  seem  to  have  appreciated  that  its  real 
potentiaUties  lie  in  the  field  of  linear  equations,  where  they  use  only  the  better  known 
methods. 

3.  Thornton  C.  Fry,  The  use  of  the  integraph  in  the  practical  solution  of  differential 

equations  by  Picard's  method  of  successive  approximations,  Proc.  Int.  Math.  Con- 
gress of  Toronto,  pp.  405-428,  1924. 


Potential  Coefficients  for  Ground  Return  Circuits 

By  W.  HOWARD  WISE 

This  paper  is  concerned  with  the  effect  of  the  finite  conductivity  and  dielectric 
constant  of  the  earth  on  the  potential  coefficient  for  a  1-wire  ground  return 
circuit.     It  has  been  customary  to  say  that  the  potential  coefficient  V IQ  is 

pvi  =  c^2  log  p^/p',  elm  units  per  cm. 

It  is  generally  realized  of  course  that  this  is  just  a  good  approximation  to  the 
true  pu  .  To  see  that  it  is  just  an  approximation  one  has  only  to  imagine  the 
earth  turning  into  air,  in  which  case  the  distance  p''  will  eventually  cease  to 
have  significance.  The  object  of  this  paper  is  to  derive  the  complete  expression 
for  pi2 . 
It  turns  out  that 

Pi2  =  cV  log  pVp'  +  4(M  +  iN)]  (7) 

where 


r 


e-»+2)fV5<  cos 


a  =  4irao},  as  in  Carson's  work  on  Zu  and  in  mine  on  Zn  at  high  frequencies^-^ 
fe^"  =  Vl  +  i{€  -  l)/2cX<r  =  s 

e   =  dielectric  constant  in  electrostatic  units 
or  =  conductivity  in  electromagnetic  units 

=  10~^3  to  10~"  in  ordinary  soil 
X  =  wavelength  in  centimeters 
c  =  velocity  of  light,  in  cm  per  sec. 

M  +  iN  vanishes  as/— >  0,/-^  oo^  e  -^  oo  ora  — >  <». 

Ordinarily  4(if  +  iN)  will  not  be  e  n  important  correction  to  2  log  p''/  p'\  but  if  the 
frequency  is  high  and  h  or  z  is  small  it  can  be  a  worthwhile  correction.  For 
example,  if  a  ,02535  inch  wire  be  thrown  out  on  the  ground  to  be  a  2  mc  antenna 
and  we  assume  that<r  =  10~",  e  =  15  and  A  =  3  cm.  then,  with  a  for  wire  radius, 

pn  =  c2[2  log  Ihia  +  4{M  +  iN)\ 
=  c2[10.455  +  .152  +  i  .319]. 

1/^11  is  the  capacity  to  ground.  If  there  were  two  parallel  wires  the  scalar 
potential  at  the  first  wire  would  be  Vi  =  pnQi  +  PviQz  - 

Derivation  of  the  Formula 

WE  BEGIN  with  the  wave-function  for  an  exponentially  propagated 
current  in  a  straight  wire  parallel  to  a  flat  earth.     The  wave-function 
for  a  horizontal  current-element  dipole  has  been  formulated  as  an  infinite 

ijohn  R.  Carson:  "Wave  Propagation  in  Overhead  Wires  with  Ground  Return" 
Bell  Sys.  Tech.  Jour.  5,  pp.  539-554,  1926. 

2W.  Howard  Wise:  "Propagation  of  High-Frequency  Currents  in  Ground  Return 
Circuits,"  Proc.  I.  R.  E.  22,  pp.  522-527,  1934. 

365 


366 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


integral  by  H.  von  Hoerschelmann  .  The  wave-function  for  the  current 
in  the  wire  is  obtained  by  integrating  the  wave-functions  of  the  current- 
element  dipoles  along  the  wire  from  minus  infinity  to  plus  infinity.     It  is 


n 


»oo  >'      /    -ikRi  -iK 


—iKR2 
2 


+    fy^e-"'vdv\dx  +  bXQ 


X  2e-"  f  he-"^  ( 

J—oo  OX  Ja 


(1  —  r  )Jq{vp)v      -y,i 


0    (/  H-  m)(l-^T^m) 


dv  •  dx. 


(1) 


'• 

/' 

A- 

/ 

/^ 

/ 

/ 

Co,y,z)t^ 

. 

\ 

■ 

/ 

/ 

y  V7/////.'/// 

///)W/w/y>^yyQ 

Y///^/ 

/'//////'/-^/'/'A 

\ 

^     / 

p\ 

/ 

V 

Fig.  1 

The  time  factor  is  e*"^     a,  h  and  c  are  unit  vectors  pointing  in  the  x^  y 
and  z  directions. 


Ri  =  {x^  +  /  +  (/^  -  zf) 
R2  =  {x^  +  /  +  {h  +  zf) 

k    =  27r/X 


1/2 


2x1/2 


1/2 


kz  =  e/ico^  —  iiTaiJLO)  in  electromagnetic  units 
By  supposing  e  to  be  measured  in  electrostatic  units  .we  can  write 

^2  =  k'^{e  —  i2c\(j)n. 
»  H.  Von  Hoerschelmann,  Jahrh.  der  draht.  Teleg.  5,  pp.  14-188,  1912. 


POTENTIAL  COEFFICIENTS  FOR  GROUND  RETURN  CIRCUITS       367 

It  is  assumed  that  n  is  everywhere  unity  in  electromagnetic  units. 

7  =  a:  +  1/3  is  the  desired  propagation  constant 
The  electric  field  parallel  to  the  wire  is 


—    — iO^  ^12   —     — — 


(2) 
dx 


It  has  previously  been  sho\vn  that^ 

Zi2  =  M2  log  p'7p'  +  MQ  -  iP)]  (3) 

where 

Q  -  iP  =  (^^  _{_  ^^2  _  j;)^-^'''  cos  y'v  dv, 

w'  =  IV  \/q:  and  y'  =  y  \/q;. 

To  get  the  potential  coefficient  for  a  ground  return  circuit  it  is  necessary- 
to  compute  the  scalar  potential. 

V  =  io:k-'(^U.+  ^Uy  +  ^u) 

\dx  dy  dz      I  ^^^ 

As  in  previous  work  the  propagation  constant  y  is  assigned  the  value  ik 
as  a  first  approximation.  This  is  an  ideal  value  for  y  but  the  following 
considerations  make  it  an  imperative  choice:  (l)  to  assume  that  the  current 
is  propagated  down  the  line  with  a  velocity  less  than  that  of  light  makes  the 
integrals  very  hard  to  evaluate,  (2)  to  assume  that  the  attenuation  is  not 
zero  on  an  infinite  line  amounts  to  assuming  an  infinite  source  of  energy  and 
makes  the  integrals  diverge. 

It  should  not  be  inferred  that  the  resulting  formulas  are  necessarily  poor 
if  the  physical  system  does  not  closely  approximate  the  ideal  one  in  which 
7  is  ik.  ik  is  employed  as  a  convenient  first  approximation  in  evaluating  the 
correction  terms  in  Zn  and  pn.  Eventually,  if  there  were  but  one  wire, 
one  would  compute  y  =  \/(2  +  Zii)(G  +  io/pn),  wherein  Zn  and  pn 
have  been  evaluated  with  ik  for  y,  and  this  would  be  a  second  approxima- 
tion to  y.  Past  experience  with  the  second  approximation  so  obtained  has 
justified  the  expectation  that  it  would  be  a  satisfactory  final  result.     Since 


368  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  integrals  diverge  if  the  attenuation  is  not  zero  the  use  of  an  infinite  line 
formula  presupposes  reasonably  efficient  transmission. 

Since  11  a  e~'^'  we  have 

i(iik~    —  Ila;    =    -  III    =    —  Zi2    =    —  Zi2  . 

dX  k  ik  1(j3 

Since  —   —   =  r^  or  iki  =  iojQ  or  I  =  cQ  this  is 
dx        ot 

tcor'l^n,  =  Qc'  [2  log  p"/p'  +  4(0  -  iP)].  (5) 

We  have  next  to  consider 

Faz     '  ik^  dzLJ      dxh    (I  +  m)(l -{- r^m)    ^ 

The  infinite  integral  is 

Jo    (/  +  ni){l  +  T^m)[_  -00  J-oo  J 

Since  Jo{v  \/x^  +  y^)  and  cos  kx  are  even  functions  of  x  and  sin  kx  is  an 
odd  function  of  x 

/    Mv  yjx^  +  y^)e~'^''  dx  =  2  j    J^iyy/x^  -\- y^)  cos  kx-dx 

=  0    if    V  <k 
^^cosW^l     if     ;fe<. 

and  so  our  integral  is 

/•OO  ~vol  J 

^^^  h    {l  +  m){l  +  T^w)  '  ~7~  '^'^ 

or,  since  V-  —  v^  —  W-^ 

r* g-"^^  co?>  yl'dl 

^'    io    (/  +  \//=^  +  t2(/fel  -  k')){l  +  rV/=^  +  i^kl  -  ife2)) 

or,  if  we  put  /  =  v  y/a 


POTENTIAL  COEFFICIENTS  FOR  GROUND  RETURN  CIRCUITS      369 

and  i{kl  —  k')  =  Airau  ll-\-i  Vy"  )  ~  "^^ 

2'k    r" e-"^''  cosy'v-dv 

V^  Jo    (v  +  Vj^  4-  is^)(^  +  tWv^  +  is^) 

where,  as  in  Q  —  iP,  w'  =  w  \/a  and  y'  —  y  \/a. 
^  

Noting  next  that  —  e~^  "  =  —  y/ ave~^  " 
oz 

we  have 

ico  ^  2 ^    r *  (1  —  r^jg""'"  cos  y  V'y»(/y 

1?  dz  ^'  ^  ~^'  ^  i    {v+  V»^T1^)(^  +  tW^^^~+1^) 

=  -Qc  — 2  /      — — o  '  e         cos/r.(l  ~  r)i'.^»'. 

Since  (1  -  r^)]/  =  v  +  r^  -y/v^  +  w^  -  t2( VJM^^  +  ^) 
this  is 

4    r*r  r^w^  1 

^    i^  Je    L  I'  +  r'  Vv^  +  w2 J  ^ 

On  adding  (6)  to  (5)  we  have 

QPn  =  QcV  log  p'Vp'  +  4(M  4-  tW)]  (7) 

where 


r       e-^^'cosyv 
Jo    V  y^  +  ^2  +  ^'/r 


Af  +  ^^^  vanishes  as/— >0,/— >  <»,  e— ^  oo  oro--^  oo. 
When  kl  —  k  is  minute  the  leading  terms  in  the  approximation  (9) 


1 


for  K  +  iiV  are  ^  -  ^  -  ^  log  (p"  Vfe'  -  k")/!)  -  i  ^. 

An  Approximation  for  M  +  iN 

It  is  possible  to  get  series  expansions  for  M  +  iN  but  those  which  have 
been  obtained  do  not  facilitate  computation.  A  fairly  good  approximation 
to  M  +  iN  is  arrived  at  as  follows. 


370  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Let  te      —  u  ,        u  =  e 
€  —  i2c\(T  =  a  =  1/t^ 
e-(h+znVat  cos  y^  Vat  =  §(e"*''  +  e~'"') 
g'   =  (h  -\-  z  —  iy)^  \/ a 
f={}i-\-z^iy)lVa 
g     =  {h  +  2)r  Va 
Since  it'  +  uY"  =  {f  +  2tu  +  u' -  Ituf" 

=  t  +  u  -  tu/(t  +  u)  + 

we  put 

l/W/'  +  w2  +  at)  =  1/it  -\-  u  -  tu/{t  +  w)  +  at) 
=  (/  + '«-)/[(«  +  1)/'  +  («  +  l)/w  +  u^ 
=  (/  +  n  +  r2)/(a+  l){t  +  r,){t  +  r^) 
where  fi  =  u{l  -  \/l  -  4/(a  +  l))/2. 
and      r2  =  w(l  +  Vl  -  4/(a  +  l))/2. 
Then 


(a  +  l)(r2  —  ri)  Jo    V  +  n       /  +  ^2/ 


2 
1 


+  '     -^dt 


[-r,e'  '■^  li  {e-"  "')  +  rje"^  ''  li  (e"^  '■^) 


2(a  +  l)(r2  -  n) 

-  ^26^"^^  li  (e-^"'0  +  ne^"'^  li  {e~'"'')]-      (9) 
When  )>  =  0  this  reduces  to 

M  +  W  ^  7— r-T^ S  [-^2^"^'  li  (e-^'O  +  ne"'"'  li  (e-''^')].       (10) 

(a  4-  l)(r2  -  ri) 


^i  (^~')  =  -  f    ^dt  =  C  +  ]ogz  +  J^ 

Jz  t  t=l 


(-2)' 


t=l     tit 


where  C  =  .577215665  and,  ii  z  =  re"  ,     —x<d<Tr. 


-2      n 


— z  t«o  (— z;* 

The  accompanying  charts  give  M  and  N  ior  y  =  0  and  e  =  15.  With 
z  =  h  they  give  M  and  A^^  for  />ii .  The  computed  points  are  indicated  by 
solid  dots  on  the  chart  for  M\  they  were  obtained  by  numerical  integration. 

The  approximation  (10)  was  checked  against  the  values  obtained  by 
numerical  integration  at  a  number  of  points.  The  discrepancy  in  each  case 
amounted  to  less  than  one  per  cent  for  both  M  and  N.  This  approximation 
is  a  much  easier  way  to  evaluate  the  integral  than  is  numerical  integration 
but  it  is  a  tedious  computation  with  many  chances  for  error.     Conse- 


POTENTIAL, COEFFICIENTS  FOR  GROUND  RETURN  CIRCUITS      371 

(^uently  it  is  important  to  observe  that  a  coarser  kind  of  approximation 
may  often  be  good  enough.     Thus,  taking  y  to  be  zero, 


Jo    u  -\-  at  a 


If  g  is  very  small  one  might  use 


Jo   11  +  at       Ji    (1  + 

=  llog(l  +  ?)--J_li(. 
a        \         u)       1  +  a 


a)t 


Ordinarily  precision  is  not  required  in  M  +  IN  because  \{M  +  i^V)  is  a 
small  term  in  />i2 . 


Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors 

Electrochemical  Factors  in  Underground  Corrosion  of  Lead  Cable  Sheath} 
V.  J.  Albano.  Stray  current  is  the  principle  cause  of  corrosion  failures  on 
underground  telephone  cables  in  most  cities  where  trolleys  are  operated. 
To  mitigate  this  condition,  the  cable  sheaths  are  ''drained"  to  the  negative 
return  system  of  the  traction  system.  By  this  means  not  only  is  the  stray 
current  anodic  area  largely  eliminated,  but  the  cables  automatically  become 
negative  to  earth,  and  therefore  are  cathodically  protected.  The  cathodic 
protection  afforded  in  this  manner  prevents  other  types  of  corrosion  from 
occurring.  With  the  gradual  abandonment  of  trolley  systems,  and  with  the 
extension  of  underground  cables  into  non-trolley  areas,  the  percentage  of 
underground  telephone  plant  receiving  this  protection  is  decreasing.  As  a 
result,  the  problems  of  lead  corrosion  due  to  such  causes  as  galvanic  and  local 
cell  action  of  various  types,  and  chemical  action  by  substances  in  the  soil 
are  becoming  more  prevalent.  It  is  the  purpose  of  this  article  to  review  some 
of  the  basic  principles  of  corrosion  not  involving  stray  currents,  and  show 
how  they  apply  to  the  problems  of  lead  cable  sheath  corrosion. 

PCM  Equipment,^  H.  S.  Black  and  J.  O.  Edson.  PCM,  pulse  code 
modulation,  is  a  new  solution  to  the  problem  of  overcrowded  frequency 
spectrum.  It  appears  to  have  exceptional  possibilities  from  the  standpoint 
of  freedom  from  interference,  and  seems  to  have  inherent  advantages  over 
other  types  of  multiplexing. 

Coaxial-Cable  Networks.^  Frank  A.  Cowan.  This  paper  discusses  the 
general  features  of  the  coaxial  system,  its  application  for  both  telephone  and 
television,  and  the  future  prospects  for  very-broadband  transmission  facili- 
ties in  the  communication  network. 

Parabolic- Antenna  Design  for  Microwaves }  C.  C.  Cutler.  This  paper 
is  intended  to  give  fundamental  relations  and  design  criteria  for  parabolic 
radiators  at  microwave  frequencies  (i.e.,  wavelengths  between  1  and  10  cen- 
timeters). The  first  part  of  the  paper  discusses  the  properties  of  the  para- 
bola which  make  it  useful  as  a  directional  antenna,  and  the  relation  of  phase 
polarization  and  ampUtude  of  primary  illumination  to  the  over-all  radiation 
characteristics.  In  the  second  part,  the  characteristics  of  practical  feed 
systems  for  parabolic  antennas  are  discussed. 

1  Corrosion,  October  1947. 

'  Electrical  Engineering,  November  1947. 

'  Proc.  I.  R.  E. — Waves  and  Electrons  Section,  November  1947. 

<  Proc.  I.  R.  £.,  November  1947. 

372 


ABSTRACTS  OF  TECHNICAL  ARTICLES  373 

Microwave  Antenna  Measurements}  C.  C.  Cutler,  A.  P.  King  and  W.  E. 
KocK.  A  description  is  given  of  the  techniques  involved  in  measuring  the 
properties  of  microwave  antennas.  The  measuring  methods  which  are 
pecuhar  to  these  frequencies  are  discussed,  and  include  the  measurement  of 
gain,  beam  width,  minor  lobes,  wide-angle  radiation,  mutual  coupHng  be- 
tween antennas,  phase,  and  polarization.  The  requirements  of  the  antenna 
testing  site  are  taken  up,  and  components  of  a  complete  measuring  system 
are  briefly  described. 

Microwave  Converters}  C.  F.  Edwards.  Microwave  converters  using 
point-contact  silicon  rectifiers  as  the  nonlinear  element  are  discussed,  with 
particular  emphasis  on  the  design  of  the  networks  connecting  the  rectifier 
to  the  input  and  output  terminals.  Several  converters  which  have  been 
developed  during  recent  years  for  use  at  wavelengths  between  1  and  30  centi- 
meters are  described,  and  some  of  the  effects  of  the  impedance-versus-fre- 
quency  characteristics  of  the  networks  on  the  converter  performance  are 
discussed. 

Recent  Developments  in  Relays:"^  Glass-Enclosed  Reed  Relay,  W.  B.  Ell  wood; 
Mercury  Contact  Relays,  J.  T.  L.  Brown  and  C.  E.  Pollard.  Relays  which 
combine  high-speed  and  great  uniformity  of  performance  over  long  periods 
of  time  are  required  for  some  uses  in  the  telephone  plant.  The  relays  de- 
scribed possess  these  qualities  to  an  unusual  degree.  Detailed  description 
is  limited  to  two  types,  each  typical  of  a  generic  family  in  which  the  prin- 
ciples involved  apply  to  all. 

These  relays  are  based  on  the  philosophy  that  a  motor  element  (any  device 
for  conversion  of  electromagnetic  to  mechanical  energy),  which  is  efficient 
and  magnetically  and  elastically  stable  and  operates  contacts  sealed  in  a 
proper  atmosphere  free  from  dirt  and  film,  will  give  reliable  performance  if 
the  contact  load  is  engineered  to  the  capacity  of  the  contact.  The  relays 
require  no  maintenance  beyond  unit  replacement,  for  there  is  no  possibility 
of  a  change  in  adjustment  after  assembly  is  completed. 

In  one  form  the  contact  is  provided  for  by  metal  in  sohd  form,  while  in  the 
other  a  mercury  film  supported  on  solid  metal  surfaces  provides  the  con- 
tacting medium.  The  mercury  at  the  contacting  surfaces  is  replenished 
continuously  through  a  capillary  path  from  a  mercury  reservoir  below  the 
contact. 

An  Adjustable  Wave-Guide  Phase  Changer}    A.  Gardner  Fox.    A  very 

interesting  and  useful  component  of  the  wave-guide  art  is  the  differential 

phase-shift  section,  wherein  dominant  waves  of  one  polarization  are  caused 

to  travel  through  a  section  of  wave  guide  at  a  different  velocity  than  waves 

">  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  December  1947. 
6  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  November  1947. 
^  Elec.  Engg.,  November  1947. 
8  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  December  1947. 


374  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

polarized  at  right  angles  to  the  first.  Particularly  useful  are  the  A90-degree 
and  Al80-degree  differential  phase-shift  sections  which  produce  differential 
delays  between  the  two  polarizations  of  90  degrees  and  180  degrees,  respec- 
tively. The  properties  of  these  sections  are  discussed,  and  it  is  shown  how 
they  may  be  combined  to  form  a  phase  changer  which  will  transmit  substan- 
tially 100  per  cent  of  the  incident  power  with  a  phase  which  is  readily  ad- 
justable. Several  different  methods  of  building  these  sections  are  finally 
described. 

Considerations  in  the  Design  of  a  Radar  Intermediate-Frequency  Amplifier.^ 
Andrew  L.  Hopper  and  Stewart  E.  Miller.  The  intermediate-frequency 
amplifier  of  a  microwave  radar  receiver  is  commonly  required  to  provide 
approximately  100  decibels  amplification  in  a  bandwidth  of  1  to  10  mega- 
cycles, centered  at  frequencies  in  the  30-  and  60-megacycle  regions.  Meet- 
ing such  requirements  involves  the  use  of  five  to  ten  amplifier  stages  of  the 
highest  efficiency  that  can  be  suited  to  production  methods.  In  addition, 
the  noise  figure  of  the  radar  intermediate-frequency  amplifier  is  a  significant 
contributor  to  the  over-all  radar  receiver  noise  figure,  and  must  therefore  be 
maintained  at  an  absolute  minimum.  By  examining  a  particular  inter- 
mediate-frequency-amplifier design  (one  providing  an  over-all  bandwidth  of 
10  megacycles  centered  at  60  or  100  megacycles),  this  paper  discusses  qualita- 
tively the  theoretical  problems  involved  in  such  a  design  and  gives  data  of 
practical  importance  to  the  engineer  attempting  to  build  a  similar  amplifier. 
Measured  characteristics  of  approximately  fifty  amplifiers  are  summarized  to 
illustrate  the  end  results  achieved. 

Historical  ]\ote  on  the  Rate  of  a  Moving  Atomic  Clock}'^  Herbert  E. 
Ives.  The  history  of  the  idea  of  variation  of  frequency  with  velocity  is 
followed  through  Goigt,  Larmor,  Lorentz,  and  Einstein.  The  Michelson- 
Morley  experiment  is  explainable  by  any  contraction  of  dimensions  in  the 
ratio  (1  —  i^/c^)  A  along  and  transverse  to  the  direction  of  motion.  To 
each  contraction  corresponds  a  different  value  of  frequency  change.  The 
theoretical  speculations  pointing  to  the  relation  Vm  =  Vo{\  —  v^/c'^f  are 
discussed,  together  with  the  significance  of  the  experimental  test  by  means  of 
canal  rays. 

New  Low-Coefficient  Synthetic  Piezoelectric  Crystals  for  Use  in  Filters  and 
Oscillators.^^  W.  P.  Mason.  Two  crystals  of  the  monoclinic  sphenoidal 
class  have  been  found  which  have  modes  of  vibration  with  zero  temperature 
coefficients  of  frequency,  high  electromechanical  coupling  constants,  and 
high  Q's  or  low  dissipation.  These  properties  make  it  appear  probable  that 
such  crystals  may  have  a  considerable  use  in  filters  and  oscillators  as  a  sub- 

» Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  November  1947. 
"7o7/r.  Opt.  Soc.  Amer.,  October  1947. 
"  Proc.  I.  R.  K,  October  1947. 


ABSTRACTS  OF  TECHNICAL  ARTICLES  375 

stitute  for  quartz,  which  is  difficult  to  obtain  in  large  sizes.  These  crystals 
are  ethylene  diamine  tartrate  (EDT)  having  the  chemical  formula 
C6H14N2O6,  and  di-potassium  tartrate  (DKT)  having  the  formula  K2C4H4O6 
-  i  H2O. 

The  paper  describes  the  properties  of  EDT,  since  this  crystal  has  been 
found  more  advantageous  than  DKT.  The  13  elastic  constants,  the  8  pie- 
zoelectric constants,  and  the  4  dielectric  constants  have  been  measured  over 
a  temperature  range,  and  from  these  measurements  the  regions  of  low  tem- 
perature coefficients  and  high  electromechanical  coupling  have  been  located. 
Six  low-temperature-coefficient  cuts  have  been  discovered  and  the  properties 
of  these  cuts  are  given.  These  cuts  are  being  applied  in  the  crystal  channel 
filters  of  the  long-distance  telephone  system,  and  may  be  applied  to  the 
control  of  oscillators. 

Multi-Channel  Carrier  Telegraph}"^  A.  L.  Matte.  Discussion  of  a  car- 
rier telegraph  system,  adapted  specifically  to  railway  requirements,  to  meet 
the  needs  for  high-quality  line  transmission. 

Reflex  Oscillators  for  Radar  System}^  J.  O.  McNally  and  W.  G.  Shep- 
herd. The  advantages  to  be  gained  in  the  operation  of  radar  systems  at 
very  high  frequencies  have  led  to  the  use  of  frequencies  of  several  thousand 
megacycles.  Operation  at  these  frequencies  has  imposed  serious  problems 
in  obtaining  suitable  tube  behavior.  Because  of  the  difficulty  in  obtaining 
amplification  at  the  transmission  frequency,  the  r.f .  section  of  the  usual  radar 
receiver  consists  of  a  crystal  converter  driven  by  a  beating  oscillator  and 
operating  directly  into  an  i.f.  amplifier.  Since  the  midband  frequency  of 
the  latter  has  commonly  been  either  30  or  60  Mc,  it  has  been  necessary  to 
provide  beating  oscillators  operating  at  frequencies  differing  from  those  of 
the  transmitter  by  only  a  few  per  cent. 

For  radar  systems  intended  to  operate  at  approximately  3000  Mc,  which 
were  under  development  in  the  early  days  of  the  war,  it  was  found  that  tri- 
odes  then  available  gave  unsatisfactory  performance.  Attention  shifted  to 
the  possibility  of  using  velocity-modulated  tubes,  and  the  particular  form 
known  as  the  reflex  oscillator  came  into  general  use. 

In  this  paper  the  requirements  on  beating-oscillator  tubes  for  radar  sys- 
tems are  discussed,  and  the  design  features  w^hich  have  made  the  reflex 
oscillator  eminently  satisfactory  in  this  application  are  pointed  out.  Prob- 
lems encountered  in  such  oscillators  are  outlined,  and  the  solution  in  a  num- 
ber of  cases  is  indicated.  In  some  instances  military  requirements  and  ex- 
pediency were  in  conflict  with  the  optimum  performance,  and  hence  certain 
compromises  were  necessary. 

^  Railway  Signaling,  December  1947. 
I'Proc.  /.  R.  E.,  December  1947. 


376  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Space-Charge  and  Transit-Time  Effects  on  Signal  and  Noise  in  Microwave 
Tetrodes}^  L.  C.  Peterson.  Signal  and  noise  in  microwave  tetrodes  are 
discussed  with  particular  emphasis  on  their  behavior  as  space-charge  condi- 
tions are  varied  in  the  grid-screen,  or  drift,  region.  The  analysis  assumes 
that  the  electron-stream  velocity  is  single-valued .  For  particular  conditions 
the  noise  figure  may  be  substantially  improved  by  increasing  the  space- 
charge  density  in  the  grid-screen  region  until  an  entering  electron  encounters 
a  field  of  a  certain  magnitude.  The  noise  reduction  is  largely  due  to  the 
cancellation  in  the  output  of  the  noise  produced  by  the  random  cathode 
emission.  The  method  of  noise  reduction  described  is  applicable  only  when 
the  transit  angles  of  both  input  and  drift  regions  are  fairly  long. 

In  a  forthcoming  paper,  H.  V.  Neher  describes  experimental  results  which 
broadly  agree  with  the  theory. 

"Cloverleaf"  Antenna  for  F.  M.  Broadcasting.^^  Phillip  H.  SmxH.  The 
radiation  requirements  and  general  design  considerations  for  transmitting 
antennas  suitable  for  f.m.  broadcoasting  are  briefly  discussed,  and  an  ex- 
planation of  the  design  and  operation  of  the  arrangement  of  radiating  ele- 
ments and  associated  feed  system  employed  in  the  ''cloverleaf"  antenna  is 
given.  Both  calculated  and  measured  data  are  included,  showing  field-in- 
tensity distribution,  gain,  impedance-frequency  characteristics,  etc.  De- 
sign features  which  are  discussed  include  a  simple  coaxial  impedance-match- 
ing transformer  developed  initially  for  microwave  application,  and  the 
method  and  facilities  provided  for  the  removal  of  sleet. 

Hybrid  Circuits  for  Microwaves}^  W.  A.  Tyrrell.  The  fundamental 
behavior  of  hybrid  circuits  is  reviewed  and  discussed,  largely  in  terms  of 
reciprocity  relationships.  The  phase  properties  of  simple  wave-guide  tee 
junctions  are  briefly  considered.  Two  kinds  of  hybrid  circuits  are  then 
described,  the  one  involving  a  ring  or  loop  of  transmission  line,  the  other 
relying  upon  the  symmetry  properties  of  certain  four-arm  junctions.  The 
description  is  centered  about  wave-guide  structures  for  microwaves,  but  the 
principles  may  also  be  applied  to  other  kinds  of  transmission  lines  for  other 
frequency  ranges.  Experimental  verification  is  provided,  and  some  of  the 
important  applications  are  outlined.   * 

"  Proc.  /.  R.  £.,  November  1947. 

"  Proc.  L  R.  E.— Waves  and  Electrons  Section,  December  1947. 

w  Proc.  L  R.  £.,  November  1947. 


Contributors  to  this  Issue 

J.  R.  Davey,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  University  of  Michigan,  1936. 
During  the  war  Mr.  Davey  was  engaged  in  the  development  of  H.  F.  radio 
teletype  systems,  and  has  since  been  concerned  with  the  development  of 
electronic  telegraph  circuits. 

H.  T.  Frhs,  E.E.,  Royal  Technical  College,  Copenhagen,  1916;  Sc.D., 
1938;  Assistant  to  Professor  P.  D.  Pedersen,  1916;  Technical  Advisor  at  the 
Royal  Gun  Factory,  Copenhagen,  1917-18;  Fellow  of  the  American  Scandi- 
navian Foundation,  1919;  Columbia  University,  1919.  Western  Electric 
Company,  1920-25;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1925-.  Formerly  as 
Radio  Research  Engineer  and  since  January  1946  as  Director  of  Radio 
Research,  Dr.  Friis  has  long  been  engaged  in  work  concerned  with  funda- 
mental radio  problems.     He  is  a  Fellow  of  the  Institute  of  Radio  Engineers. 

Marion  C.  Gray,  Edinburgh  University,  M.A.,  1922;  Bryn  Mawr  Col- 
lege, Ph.D.,  1926.  Instructor  in  physics,  Edinburgh  University,  1926-27; 
Research  Assistant  in  Mathematics,  Imperial  College,  London,  1927-30. 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  Department  of  Development 
and  Research,  1930-34;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1934-.  Dr.  Gray  has 
been  engaged  mainly  in  mathematical  work  in  the  field  of  electromagnetic 
theory. 

A.  L.  Matte,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology,  1909;  Graduate  Studies,  M.I.T.,  1912-13.  New  England 
Investment  and  Securities  Company,  1910-12;  Detroit  United  Railways, 
1913-18.  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  Department  of 
Development  and  Research,  1918-34;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1934-. 
Mr.  Matte  has  been  engaged  principally  in  transmission  studies  relating  to 
telegraphy. 

S.  O.  Rice,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  Oregon  State  College,  1929; 
California  Institute  of  Technology,  1929-30,  1934-35.  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  1930-.  Mr.  Rice  has  been  concerned  with  various  theoretical 
investigations  relating  to  telephone  transmission  theory. 

D.  H.  Ring,  A.B.,  Stanford,  1929;  Engineer,  Stanford,  1930.  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  1930-.    Mr.  Ring  has  been  engaged  in  radio  research. 

377 


378  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

S.  A.  ScHELKUNOFF,  B.A.,  M.A.  in  Mathematics,  The  State  College  of 
Washington,  1923;  Ph.D.  in  Mathematics,  Columbia  University,  1928. 
Engineering  Department,  Western  Electric  Company,  1923-25;  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  1925-26.  Department  of  Mathematics,  State  College 
of  Washington,  1926-29.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1929-.  Dr. 
Schelkunoff  has  been  engaged  in  mathematical  research,  especially  in  the  field 
of  electromagnetic  theory. 

W.  H.  Wise,  B.S.,  Montana  State  College,  1921;  M.A.,  University  of 
Oregon,  1923;  Ph.D.,  California  Institute  of  Technology,  1926.  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  Department  of  Development  and 
Research,  1926-34;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1934-.  Dr.  W^ise  has  been 
engaged  in  various  theoretical  investigations  relating  to  transmission  theory. 


VOLUME  XXVII  JULY,  1948  no.  3 


UmmSSm 

THE  BELL  SYSTEM  * 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

DEVOTED  TO  THE  SCIENTIFIC  AND  ENGINEERING  ASPECTS 
OF  ELECTRICAL  COMMUNICATION 


A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication .  .C,E,  Shannon  379 

An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its 
Effect  on  the  Trunk  Plant Charles  Clos  424 

Spectra  of  Quantized  Signals W,R.  Bennett  446 

Analysis  and  Performance  of  Waveguide -Hybrid  Rings 
for  Microwaves H,T,  Budenbom  473 

Methods  of  Electromagnetic  Field  Analysis 

S.A.Schelkunoff  487 

The  Evolution  of  the  Quartz  Crystal  Clock 

Warren  A,  Marrison  510 

Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors . .  589 

Contributors  to  this  Issue 591 


AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK 


50i  per  copy  $h50  per  Year 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Published  quarterly  by  the 

American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

195  Broadway,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


EDITORS 

R.  W.  King  J.  O.  Perrine 

EDITORIAL  BOARD 

C.  F.  Craig  O.  E.  Buckley 

O.  B.  BlackweU  M.  J.  KeUy 

H.  S.  Osborne  A.  B.  Clark 

J.  J.  PilUod  F.  J.  Feely 


SUBSCRIPTIONS 

Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $1.50  per  year.     Single  copies  are  50  cents  each. 
The  foreign  postage  is  35  cents  per  year  or  9  cents  per  copy. 


Copyright,  1948 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


PRINTED  IN  U    S   A 


The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal 

Vol.  XXVII  July,  194S  No.  3 


A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication 

By  C.  E.  SHANNON 

Introduction 

THE  recent  development  of  various  methods  of  modulation  such  as  PCM 
and  PPM  which  exchange  bandwidth  for  signal-to-noise  ratio  has  in- 
tensified the  interest  in  a  general  theory  of  communication.  A  basis  for 
such  a  theory  is  contained  in  the  important  papers  of  Nyquist^  and  Hartley^ 
on  this  subject.  In  the  present  paper  we  will  extend  the  theory  to  include  a 
number  of  new  factors,  in  particular  the  effect  of  noise  in  the  channel,  and 
the  savings  possible  due  to  the  statistical  structure  of  the  original  message 
and  due  to  the  nature  of  the  final  destination  of  the  information. 

The  fundamental  problem  of  communication  is  that  of  reproducing  at 
one  point  either  exactly  or  approximately  a  message  selected  at  another 
point.  Frequently  the  messages  have  meaning;  that  is  they  refer  to  or  are 
correlated  according  to  some  system  with  certain  physical  or  conceptual 
entities.  These  semantic  aspects  of  communication  are  irrelevant  to  the 
engineering  problem.  The  significant  aspect  is  that  the  actual  message  is 
one  selected  from  a  set  of  possible  messages.  The  system  must  be  designed 
to  operate  for  each  possible  selection,  not  just  the  one  which  will  actually 
be  chosen  since  this  is  unknown  at  the  time  of  design. 

If  the  number  of  messages  in  the  set  is  finite  then  this  number  or  any 
monotonic  function  of  this  number  can  be  regarded  as  a  measure  of  the  in- 
formation produced  when  one  message  is  chosen  from  the  set,  all  choices 
being  equally  likely.  As  was  pointed  out  by  Hartley  the  most  natural 
choice  is  the  logarithmic  function.  Although  this  definition  must  be  gen- 
eralized considerably  when  we  consider  the  influence  of  the  statistics  of  the 
message  and  when  we  have  a  continuous  range  of  messages,  we  will  in  all 
cases  use  an  essentially  logarithmic  measure. 

The  logarithmic  measure  is  more  convenient  for  various  reasons: 

1.  It  is  practically  more  useful.     Parameters  of  engineering  importance 

1  Nyquist,  H.,  "Certain  Factors  Affecting  Telegraph  Speed,"  Bell  System  TechnicdJour- 
nal,  April  1924,  p.  324;  "Certain  Topics  in  Telegraph  Transmission  Theory,"  ^.  /.  E.  E. 
Ttans.,  V.  47,  April  1928,  p.  617. 

2  Hartley,  R.  V.  L.,  "Transmission  of  Information,"  Bdl  System  TecttnicalJournal,  July 
1928,  p.  535. 

379 


380  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

such  as  time,  bandwidth,  number  of  relays,  etc.,  tend  to  vary  Hnearly  with 
the  logarithm  of  the  number  of  possibiUties.  For  example,  adding  one  relay 
to  a  group  doubles  the  number  of  possible  states  of  the  relays.  It  adds  1 
to  the  base  2  logarithm  of  this  number.  Doubling  the  time  roughly  squares 
the  number  of  possible  messages,  or  doubles  the  logarithm,  etc. 

2.  It  is  nearer  to  our  intuitive  feeling  as  to  the  proper  measure.  This  is 
closely  related  to  (1)  since  we  intuitively  measure  entities  by  linear  com- 
parison with  common  standards.  One  feels,  for  example,  that  two  punched 
cards  should  have  twice  the  capacity  of  one  for  information  storage,  and  two 
identical  channels  twice  the  capacity  of  one  for  transmitting  information. 

3.  It  is  mathematically  more  suitable.  Many  of  the  limiting  operations 
are  simple  in  terms  of  the  logarithm  but  would  require  clumsy  restatement  in 
terms  of  the  number  of  possibilities. 

The  choice  of  a  logarithmic  base  corresponds  to  the  choice  of  a  unit  for 
measuring  information.  If  the  base  2  is  used  the  resulting  units  may  be 
called  binary  digits,  or  more  briefly  hits,  a  word  suggested  by  J.  W.  Tukey. 
A  device  with  two  stable  positions,  such  as  a  relay  or  a  flip-flop  circuit,  can 
store  one  bit  of  information.  N  such  devices  can  store  N  bits,  since  the 
total  number  of  possible  states  is  2^  and  log22^  =  N.  If  the  base  10  is 
used  the  units  may  be  called  decimal  digits.     Since 

log2  M  =  logio  M/logio2 

=  3.32  logio  M, 

a  decimal  digit  is  about  2>\  bits.  A  digit  wheel  on  a  desk  computing  machine 
has  ten  stable  positions  and  therefore  has  a  storage  capacity  of  one  decimal 
digit.  In  analytical  work  where  integration  and  differentiation  are  involved 
the  base  e  is  sometimes  useful.  The  resulting  units  of  information  will  be 
called  natural  units.  Change  from  the  base  a  to  base  h  merely  requires 
multiplication  by  logb  a. 

By  a  communication  system  we  will  mean  a  system  of  the  type  indicated 
schematically  in  Fig.  1.     It  consists  of  essentially  five  parts: 

1.  An  information  source  which  produces  a  message  or  sequence  of  mes- 
sages to  be  communicated  to  the  receiving  terminal.  The  message  may  be 
of  various  types :  e.g.  (a)  A  sequence  of  letters  as  in  a  telegraph  or  teletype 
system;  (b)  A  single  function  of  time /(/)  as  in  radio  or  telephony;  (c)  A 
function  of  time  and  other  variables  as  in  black  and  white  television — here 
the  message  may  be  thought  of  as  a  function  f{x,  y,  /)  of  two  space  coordi- 
nates and  time,  the  light  intensity  at  point  {x,  y)  and  time  /  on  a  pickup  tube 
plate;  (d)  Two  or  more  functions  of  time,  say  /(/),  g(/),  h{t) — this  is  the 
case  in  ''three  dimensional"  sound  transmission  or  if  the  system  is  intended 
to  service  several  individual  channels  in  muhiplex;  (e)  Several  functions  of 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION 


381 


several  variables — in  color  television  the  message  consists  of  three  functions 
/C^'j  y^  t),  g{^',  y,  0,  K^,  y,  0  defined  in  a  three-dimensional  continuum — 
we  may  also  think  of  these  three  functions  as  components  of  a  vector  field 
defined  in  the  region — similarly,  several  black  and  white  television  sources 
would  produce  ''messages"  consisting  of  a  number  of  functions  of  three 
variables;  (f)  Various  combinations  also  occur,  for  example  in  television 
with  an  associated  audio  channel. 

2.  A  transmitter  which  operates  on  the  message  in  some  way  to  produce  a 
signal  suitable  for  transmission  over  the  channel.  In  telephony  this  opera- 
tion consists  merely  of  changing  sound  pressure  into  a  proportional  electrical 
current.  In  telegraphy  we  have  an  encoding  operation  which  produces  a 
sequence  of  dots,  dashes  and  spaces  on  the  channel  corresponding  to  the 
message.  In  a  multiplex  PCM  system  the  different  speech  functions  must 
be  sampled,  compressed,  quantized  and  encoded,  and  finally  interleaved 


INFORMATION 

SOURCE  TRANSMITTER 


RECEIVER 


SIGNAL 


D 


MESSAGE 


RECEIVED 
SIGNAL 


DESTINATION 


MESSAGE 


NOISE 
SOURCE 

Fig.  1 — Schematic  diagram  of  a  general  communication  system. 

properly  to  construct  the  signal.  Vocoder  systems,  television,  and  fre- 
quency modulation  are  other  examples  of  complex  operations  applied  to  the 
message  to  obtain  the  signal. 

3.  The  channel  is  merely  the  medium  used  to  transmit  the  signal  from 
transmitter  to  receiver.  It  may  be  a  pair  of  wires,  a  coaxial  cable,  a  band  of 
radio  frequencies,  a  beam  of  light,  etc. 

4.  The  receiver  ordinarily  performs  the  inverse  operation  of  that  done  by 
the  transmitter,  reconstructing  the  message  from  the  signal. 

5.  The  destination  is  the  person  (or  thing)  for  whom  the  message  is  in- 
tended. 

We  wish  to  consider  certain  general  problems  involving  communication 
systems.  To  do  this  it  is  first  necessary  to  represent  the  various  elements 
involved  as  mathematical  entities,  suitably  idealized  from  their  physical 
counterparts.  We  may  roughly  classify  communication  systems  into  three 
main  categories:  discrete,  continuous  and  mixed.  By  a  discrete  system  we 
will  mean  one  in  which  both  the  message  and  the  signal  are  a  sequence  of 


382  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

discrete  symbols.  A  typical  case  is  telegraphy  where  the  message  is  a 
sequence  of  letters  and  the  signal  a  sequence  of  dots,  dashes  and  spaces. 
A  continuous  system  is  one  in  which  the  message  and  signal  are  both  treated 
as  continuous  functions,  e.g.  radio  or  television.  A  mixed  system  is  one  in 
which  both  discrete  and  continuous  variables  appear,  e.g.,  PCM  transmis- 
sion  of  speech. 

We  first  consider  the  discrete  case.  This  case  has  applications  not  only 
in  communication  theory,  but  also  in  the  theory  of  computing  machines, 
the  design  of  telephone  exchanges  and  other  fields.  In  addition  the  discrete 
case  forms  a  foundation  for  the  continuous  and  mixed  cases  which  will  be 
treated  in  the  second  half  of  the  paper. 

PART  I:  DISCRETE  NOISELESS  SYSTEMS 

1.  The  Discrete  Noiseless  Channel 

Teletype  and  telegraphy  are  two  simple  examples  of  a  discrete  channel 
for  transmitting  information.  Generally,  a  discrete  channel  will  mean  a 
system  whereby  a  sequence  of  choices  from  a  finite  set  of  elementary  sym- 
bols ^i  •  •  •  Sn  can  be  transmitted  from  one  point  to  another.  Each  of  the 
symbols  Si  is  assumed  to  have  a  certain  duration  in  time  ti  seconds  (not 
necessarily  the  same  for  different  Si ,  for  example  the  dots  and  dashes  in 
telegraphy).  It  is  not  required  that  all  possible  sequences  of  the  Si  be  cap- 
able of  transmission  on  the  system;  certain  sequences  only  may  be  allowed. 
These  will  be  possible  signals  for  the  channel.  Thus  in  telegraphy  suppose 
the  symbols  are:  (1)  A  dot,  consisting  of  line  closure  for  a  unit  of  time  and 
then  line  open  for  a  unit  of  time;  (2)  A  dash,  consisting  of  three  time  units 
of  closure  and  one  unit  open;  (3)  A  letter  space  consisting  of,  say,  three  units 
of  line  open;  (4)  A  word  space  of  six  units  of  line  open.  We  might  place 
the  restriction  on  allowable  sequences  that  no  spaces  follow  each  other  (for 
if  two  letter  spaces  are  adjacent,  it  is  identical  with  a  word  space).  The 
question  we  now  consider  is  how  one  can  measure  the  capacity  of  such  a 
channel  to  transmit  information. 

In  the  teletype  case  where  all  symbols  are  of  the  same  duration,  and  any 
sequence  of  the  32  symbols  is  allowed  the  answer  is  easy.  Each  symbol 
represents  five  bits  of  information.  If  the  system  transmits  n  symbols 
per  second  it  is  natural  to  say  that  the  channel  has  a  capacity  of  Sn  bits  per 
second.  This  does  not  mean  that  the  teletype  channel  will  always  be  trans- 
mitting information  at  this  rate — this  is  the  maximum  possible  rate  and 
whether  or  not  the  actual  rate  reaches  this  maximum  depends  on  the  source 
of  information  which  feeds  the  channel,  as  will  appear  later. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  383 

In  the  more  general  case  with  different  lengths  of  symbols  and  constraints 
on  the  allowed  sequences,  we  make  the  following  definition: 
Definition:  The  capacity  C  of  a  discrete  channel  is  given  by 

r-»oo         1 

where  N{T)  is  the  number  of  allowed  signals  of  duration  T. 

It  is  easily  seen  that  in  the  teletype  case  this  reduces  to  the  previous 
result.  It  can  be  shown  that  the  limit  in  question  will  exist  as  a  finite  num- 
ber in  most  cases  of  interest.  Suppose  all  sequences  of  the  symbols  5i ,  •  •  •  , 
Sn  are  allowed  and  these  symbols  have  durations  h  ,  ■  •  -  ,  tn  .  What  is  the 
channel  capacity?  If  N(t)  represents  the  number  of  sequences  of  duration 
/  we  have 

N{t)  =  N{t  -  h)  +  N{t-  t2)+  -■'  +  N{t  -  tn) 

The  total  number  is  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  numbers  of  sequences  ending  in 
Si,  S2,  •  • '  ,  Sn  and  these  are  Nit  —  /i),  N{t  —  /2),  •  •  •  ,  N{t  —  tn),  respec- 
tively. According  to  a  well  known  result  in  finite  differences,  N(t)  is  then 
asymptotic  for  large  /  to  Xj  where  Xq  is  the  largest  real  solution  of  the 
characteristic  equation: 

X~''  +  X~''  +  "■  +  X"'"  =  1 
and  therefore 

C  =  log  Xo 

In  case  there  are  restrictions  on  allowed  sequences  we  may  still  often  ob- 
tain a  difference  equation  of  this  type  and  find  C  from  the  characteristic 
equation.     In  the  telegraphy  case  mentioned  above 

Nit)  =  N{t  -  2)  +  Nit  -  4)  -1-  N{t  -  5)  +  N{t  -  7)  -f  N{t  -  8) 

-f  N{t  -  10) 

as  we  see  by  counting  sequences  of  symbols  according  to  the  last  or  next  to 
the  last  symbol  occurring.  Hence  C  is  —  log  /io  where  /io  is  the  positive 
root  of  1  =  m'  +  m'  +  m'  +  m'  +  m'  +  /i''.  Solving  this  we  find  C  =  0.539. 
A  very  general  type  of  restriction  which  may  be  placed  on  allowed  se- 
quences is  the  following :  We  imagine  a  number  of  possible  states  fli ,  ^2 ,  •  •  •  , 
Gm  .  For  each  state  only  certain  symbols  from  the  set  5i ,  •  •  •  ,  Sn  can  be 
transmitted  (different  subsets  for  the  different  states).  When  one  of  these 
has  been  transmitted  the  state  changes  to  a  new  state  depending  both  on 
the  old  state  and  the  particular  symbol  transmitted.  The  telegraph  case  is 
a  simple  example  of  this.     There  are  two  states  depending  on  whether  or  not 


384  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

a  space  \vas  the  last  symbol  transmitted.  If  so  then  only  a  dot  or  a  dash 
can  be  sent  next  and  the  state  always  changes.  If  not,  any  symbol  can  be 
transmitted  and  the  state  changes  if  a  space  is  sent,  otherwise  it  remains 
the  same.  The  conditions  can  be  indicated  in  a  linear  graph  as  shown  in 
Fig.  2.  The  junction  points  correspond  to  the  states  and  the  lines  indicate 
the  symbols  possible  in  a  state  and  the  resulting  state.  In  Appendix  I  it  is 
shown  that  if  the  conditions  on  allowed  sequences  can  be  described  in  this 
form  C  will  exist  and  can  be  calculated  in  accordance  with  the  following 
result: 

Theorem  1:  Let  hi)  be  the  duration  of  the  s^^  symbol  which  is  allowable  in 
state  i  and  leads  to  state  j.  Then  the  channel  capacity  C  is  equal  to  log 
W  where  W  is  the  largest  real  root  of  the  determinant  equation : 

where  ba  =  \  iii  =  j  and  is  zero  otherwise. 

DASH 

DOT 

DASH 

WORD  SPACE 
Fig.  2 — Graphical  representation  of  the  constraints  on  telegraph  symbols. 

For  example,  in  the  telegraph  case  (Fig.  2)  the  determinant  is: 

-1  {w-^  +  w') 

{W~^  +  W')         (IF"'  +  W~'  -  1) 
On  expansion  this  leads  to  the  equation  given  above  for  this  case. 

2.  The  Discrete  Source  of  Information 

We  have  seen  that  under  very  general  conditions  the  logarithm  of  the 
number  of  possible  signals  in  a  discrete  channel  increases  linearly  with  time. 
The  capacity  to  transmit  information  can  be  specified  by  giving  this  rate  of 
increase,  the  number  of  bits  per  second  required  to  specify  the  particular 
signal   used. 

We  now  consider  the  information  source.  How  is  an  information  source 
to  be  described  mathematically,  and  how  much  information  in  bits  per  sec- 
ond is  produced  in  a  given  source?  The  main  point  at  issue  is  the  effect  of 
statistical  knowledge  about  the  source  in  reducing  the  required  capacity 


=  0 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  385 

of  the  channel,  by  the  use  of  proper  encoding  of  the  information.  In  teleg- 
raphy, for  example,  the  messages  to  be  transmitted  consist  of  sequences 
of  letters.  These  sequences,  however,  are  not  completely  random.  In 
general,  they  form  sentences  and  have  the  statistical  structure  of,  say,  Eng- 
lish. The  letter  E  occurs  more  frequently  than  Q,  the  sequence  TH  more 
frequently  than  XP,  etc.  The  existence  of  this  structure  allows  one  to 
make  a  saving  in  time  (or  channel  capacity)  by  properly  encoding  the  mes- 
sage sequences  into  signal  sequences.  This  is  already  done  to  a  limited  ex- 
tent in  telegraphy  by  using  the  shortest  channel  symbol,  a  dot,  for  the  most 
common  English  letter  E;  while  the  infrequent  letters,  Q,  X,  Z  are  repre- 
sented by  longer  sequences  of  dots  and  dashes.  This  idea  is  carried  still 
further  in  certain  commercial  codes  where  common  words  and  phrases  are 
represented  by  four-  or  five-letter  code  groups  with  a  considerable  saving  in 
average  time.  The  standardized  greeting  and  anniversary  telegrams  now 
in  use  extend  this  to  the  point  of  encoding  a  sentence  or  two  into  a  relatively 
short  sequence  of  numbers. 

We  can  think  of  a  discrete  source  as  generating  the  message,  symbol  by 
symbol.  It  will  choose  successive  symbols  according  to  certain  probabilities 
depending,  in  general,  on  preceding  choices  as  well  as  the  particular  symbols 
in  question.  A  physical  system,  or  a  mathematical  model  of  a  system  which 
produces  such  a  sequence  of  symbols  governed  by  a  set  of  probabilities  is 
known  as  a  stochastic  process.^  We  may  consider  a  discrete  source,  there- 
fore, to  be  represented  by  a  stochastic  process.  Conversely,  any  stochastic 
process  which  produces  a  discrete  sequence  of  symbols  chosen  from  a  finite 
set  may  be  considered  a  discrete  source.     This  will  include  such  cases  as: 

1.  Natural  written  languages  such  as  English,  German,  Chinese. 

2.  Continuous  information  sources  that  have  been  rendered  discrete  by  some 
quantizing  process.  For  example,  the  quantized  speech  from  a  PCM 
transmitter,  or  a  quantized  television  signal. 

3.  Mathematical  cases  where  we  merely  define  abstractly  a  stochastic 
process  w^hich  generates  a  sequence  of  symbols.  The  following  are  ex- 
amples of  this  last  type  of  source. 

(A)  Suppose  we  have  five  letters  A,  B,  C,  D,  E  which  are  chosen  each 
with  probability   .2,   successive    choices  being  independent.     This 
w^ould  lead  to  a  sequence  of  which  the  following  is  a  typical  example. 
BDCBCECCCADCBDDAAECEEA 
ABBDAEECACEEBAEECBCEAD 
This  was  constructed  with  the  use  of  a  table  of  random  numbers.^ 

3  See,  for  example,  S.  Chandrasekhar,  "Stochastic  Problems  in  Physics  and  Astronomy," 
Ra4eu'S  of  Modern  Physics,  v.  15,  No.  1,  January  1943,  p.  1. 

*  Kendall  and  Smith,  "Tables  of  Random  Sampling  Numbers,"  Cambridge,  1939. 


386 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


(B)  Using  the  same  five  letters  let  the  probabilities  be  .4,  .1,  .2,  .2,  .1 
respectively,    with    successive    choices    independent.    A    typical 
message  from  this  source  is  then: 
AAACDCBDCEAADADACEDA 

EAD C ABED ADD CECAAAAAD 

(C)  A  more  complicated  structure  is  obtained  if  successive  symbols  are 
not  chosen  independently  but  their  probabilities  depend  on  preced- 
ing letters.  In  the  simplest  case  of  this  type  a  choice  depends  only 
on  the  preceding  letter  and  not  on  ones  before  that.  The  statistical 
structure  can  then  be  described  by  a  set  of  transition  probabilities 
piij),  the  probability  that  letter  i  is  followed  by  letter  j.  The  in- 
dices i  and  j  range  over  all  the  possible  symbols.  A  second  equiv- 
alent way  of  specifying  the  structure  is  to  give  the  "digram"  prob- 
abilities p(i,j),  i.e.,  the  relative  frequency  of  the  digram  i  j.  The 
letter  frequencies  p{i),  (the  probability  of  letter  i),  the  transition 
probabilities  pi{j)  and  the  digram  probabilities  p{i,j)  are  related  by 
the  following  formulas. 

p(i)  =  Z  pa,  j)  =  Z  pij,  ^)  =  Z  pu)pjii) 

3  3  3 

p{i,j)  =  p(i)pi{j) 

Z  pi(j)  =  Z  pi^)  =  Z  pih  i)  =  1. 


As  a  specific  example  suppose  there  are  three  letters  A,  B,  C  with  the  prob- 
ability tables: 

p{{) 


piij) 

j 

A 

B 

c 

A 

0 

i 

1 

5 

i    B 

h 

1 

2 

0 

C 

i 

i 

1^ 

^T 


2 


pi^J) 

j 

A 

B 

c 

A 

0 

A 

A 

i    B 

^\ 

^V 

0 

C 

ih 

lis 

T^Z 

A  typical  message  from  this  source  is  the  following: 
ABBABABABABABABBBABBBBBAB 
ABABABABBBACACABBABBBBABB 
ABACBBBABA 

The  next  increase  in  complexity  would  involve  trigram  frequencies 
but  no  more.  The  choice  of  a  letter  would  depend  on  the  preceding 
two  letters  but  not  on  the  message  before  that  point.  A  set  of  tri- 
gram frequencies  />(i,  j,  k)  or  equivalently  a  set  of  transition  prob- 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  387 

abilities  pij{k)  would  be  required.  Continuing  in  this  way  one  ob- 
tains successively  more  complicated  stochastic  processes.  In  the 
general  w-gram  case  a  set  of  w-gram  probabilities  piii,  ^2 ,  •  •  •  ,  in) 
or  of  transition  probabilities  pi^  ,  tj  .•••  .  i„-i(0  is  required  to 
specify  the  statistical  structure. 
(D)  Stochastic  processes  can  also  be  defined  which  produce  a  text  con- 
sisting of  a  sequence  of  ' 'words. "  Suppose  there  are  five  letters 
A,  B,  C,  D,  E  and  16  ''words"  in  the  language  with  associated 
probabilities : 


.10  A 

.16  BEBE 

.11  CABED 

.04  DEB 

.04  ADEB 

.04  BED 

.05  CEED 

.15  DEED 

.05  ADEE 

.02  BEED 

.08  DAB 

.01  EAB 

.01  BADD 

.05  CA 

.04  DAD 

.05  EE 

Suppose  successive   "words"   are  chosen  independently   and   are 
separated  by  a  space.    A  typical  message  might  be: 
DAB  EE  A  BEBE  DEED  DEB  ADEE  ADEE  EE  DEB  BEBE 
BEBE  BEBE  ADEE  BED  DEED  DEED  CEED  ADEE  A  DEED 
DEED  BEBE  CABED  BEBE  BED  DAB  DEED  ADEB 
If  all  the  words  are  of  finite  length  this  process  is  equivalent  to  one 
of  the  preceding  type,  but  the  description  may  be  simpler  in  terms 
of  the  word  structure  and  probabilities.    We  may  also  generalize 
here  and  introduce  transition  probabilities  between  words,  etc. 
These  artificial  languages  are  useful  in  constructing  simple  problems  and 
examples  to  illustrate  various  possibilities.    We  can  also  approximate  to  a 
natural  language  by  means  of  a  series  of  simple  artificial  languages.     The 
zero-order  approximation  is  obtained  by  choosing  all  letters  with  the  same 
probability  and  independently.     The  first-order  approximation  is  obtained 
by  choosing  successive  letters  independently  but  each  letter  having  the 
same  probability  that  it  does  in  the  natural  language.^    Thus,  in  the  first- 
order  approximation  to  English,  E  is  chosen  with  probabihty  .12  (its  fre- 
quency in  normal  English)  and  W  with  probability  .02,  but  there  is  no  in- 
fluence between  adjacent  letters  and  no  tendency  to  form  the  preferred 
digrams  such  as  TH,  ED,  etc.     In  the  second-order  approximation,  digram 
structure  is  introduced.    After  a  letter  is  chosen,  the  next  one  is  chosen  in 
accordance  with  the  frequencies  with  which  the  various  letters  follow  the 
first  one.    This  requires  a  table  of  digram  frequencies  Pi(;)-     In  the  third- 
order  approximation,  trigram  structure  is  introduced.     Each  letter  is  chosen 
with  probabilities  which  depend  on  the  preceding  two  letters. 

^  Letter,  digram  and  trigram  frequencies  are  given  in  "Secret  and  Urgent"  by  Fletcher 
Pratt,  Blue  Ribbon  Books  1939.  Word  frequencies  are  tabulated  in  "Relative  Frequency 
of  English  Speech  Sounds,"  G.  Dewey,  Harvard  University  Press,  1923. 


m  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

3.  The  Series  of  Approximations  to  English 

To  give  a  visual  idea  of  how  this  series  of  processes  approaches  a  language, 
typical  sequences  in  the  approximations  to  English  have  been  constructed 
and  are  given  below.  In  all  cases  we  have  assumed  a  27-symbol  "alphabet," 
the  26  letters  and  a  space. 

1.  Zero-order  approximation  (symbols  independent  and  equi-probable). 

XFOML  RXKHRJFFJUJ  ZLPWCFWKCYJ 
FFJEYVKCQSGXYD    QPAAMKBZAACIBZLHJQD 

2.  First-order  approximation  (symbols  independent  but  with  frequencies 
of  English  text). 

OCRO  HLI  RGWR  NMIELWIS  EU  LL  NBNESEBYA  TH  EEI 
ALHENHTTPA  OOBTTVA  NAH  BRL 

3.  Second-order  approximation  (digram  structure  as  in  English). 

ON  IE  ANTSOUTINYS  ARE  T  INCTORE  ST  BE  S  DEAMY 
ACHIN  D  ILONASIVE  TUCOOWE  AT  TEASONARE  FUSO 
TIZIN  ANDY  TOBE  SEACE  CTISBE 

4.  Third-order  approximation   (trigram  structure  as  in  English). 

IN  NO  1ST  LAT  WHEY  CRATICT  FROURE  BIRS  GROCID 
PONDENOME  OF  DEMONSTURES  OF  THE  REPTAGIN  IS 
REGOACTIONA  OF   CRE 

5.  First-Order  Word  Approximation.  Rather  than  continue  with  tetra- 
gram,  •  •  •  ,  w-gram  structure  it  is  easier  and  better  to  jump  at  this 
point  to  word  units.  Here  words  are  chosen  independently  but  with 
their  appropriate  frequencies. 

REPRESENTING  AND  SPEEDILY  IS  AN  GOOD  APT  OR 
COME  CAN  DIFFERENT  NATURAL  HERE  HE  THE  A  IN 
CAME  THE  TO  OF  TO  EXPERT  GRAY  COME  TO  FUR- 
NISHES THE  LINE  MESSAGE  HAD  BE  THESE. 

6.  Second-Order  Word  Approximation.  The  word  transition  probabil- 
ities are  correct  but  no  further  structure  is  included. 

THE  HEAD  AND  IN  FRONTAL  ATTACK  ON  AN  ENGLISH 

WRITER   THAT   THE    CHARACTER  OF  THIS    POINT    IS 

THEREFORE   ANOTHER    METHOD    FOR    THE    LETTERS 

THAT  THE  TIME  OF  WHO  EVER  TOLD  THE  PROBLEM 

FOR  AN  UNEXPECTED 

The  resemblance  to  ordinary  EngHsh  text  increases  quite  noticeably  at 

each  of  the  above  steps.     Note  that  these  samples  have  reasonably  good 

structure  out  to  about  twice  the  range  that  is  taken  into  account  in  their 

construction.     Thus  in  (3)  the  statistical  process  insures  reasonable  text 

for  two-letter  sequence,  but  four-letter  sequences  from  the  sample  can 

usually  be  fitted  into  good  sentences.     In  (6)  sequences  of  four  or  more 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  389 

words  can  easily  be  placed  in  sentences  without  unusual  or  strained  con- 
structions. The  particular  sequence  of  ten  words  "attack  on  an  English 
writer  that  the  character  of  this"  is  not  at  all  unreasonable.  It  appears 
then  that  a  sufficiently  complex  stochastic  process  will  give  a  satisfactory 
representation  of  a  discrete  source. 

The  first  two  samples  were  constructed  by  the  use  of  a  book  of  random 
numbers  in  conjunction  with  (for  example  2)  a  table  of  letter  frequencies. 
This  method  might  have  been  continued  for  (3),  (4),  and  (5),  since  digram, 
trigram,  and  word  frequency  tables  are  available,  but  a  simpler  equivalent 
method  was  used.  To  construct  (3)  for  example,  one  opens  a  book  at  ran- 
dom and  selects  a  letter  at  random  on  the  page.  This  letter  is  recorded. 
The  book  is  then  opened  to  another  page  and  one  reads  until  this  letter  is 
encountered.  The  succeeding  letter  is  then  recorded.  Turning  to  another 
page  this  second  letter  is  searched  for  and  the  succeeding  letter  recorded, 
etc.  A  similar  process  was  used  for  (4),  (5),  and  (6).  It  would  be  interest- 
ing if  further  approximations  could  be  constructed,  but  the  labor  involved 
becomes  enormous  at  the  next  stage. 

4.  Graphical  Representation  of  a  Markoff  Process 

Stochastic  processes  of  the  type  described  above  are  known  mathe- 
matically as  discrete  Markoff  processes  and  have  been  extensively  studied  in 
the  literature.^  The  general  case  can  be  described  as  follows:  There  exist  a 
finite  number  of  possible  "states"  of  a  system;  Si  ,  S2 ,  ■  ■  •  ,  Sn  .  In  addi- 
tion there  is  a  set  of  transition  probabilities;  pi(j)  the  probability  that  if  the 
system  is  in  state  Si  it  will  next  go  to  state  Sj  .  To  make  this  Markoff 
process  into  an  information  source  we  need  only  assume  that  a  letter  is  pro- 
duced for  each  transition  from  one  state  to  another.  The  states  will  corre- 
spond to  the  "residue  of  influence"  from  preceding  letters. 

The  situation  can  be  represented  graphically  as  shown  in  Figs.  3,  4  and  5. 
The  "states"  are  the  junction  points  in  the  graph  and  the  probabilities  and 
letters  produced  for  a  transition  are  given  beside  the  corresponding  line. 
Figure  3  is  for  the  example  B  in  Section  2,  while  Fig.  4  corresponds  to  the 
example  C.  In  Fig.  3  there  is  only  one  state  since  successive  letters  are 
independent.  In  Fig.  4  there  are  as  many  states  as  letters.  If  a  trigram 
example  were  constructed  there  would  be  at  most  n^  states  corresponding 
to  the  possible  pairs  of  letters  preceding  the  one  being  chosen.  Figure  5 
is  a  graph  for  the  case  of  word  structure  in  example  D.  Here  S  corresponds 
to  the  "space"  symbol. 

^  For  a  detailed  treatment  see  M.  Frechet,  "Methods  des  fonctions  arbitraires.  Theorie 
des  enenements  en  chaine  dans  le  cas  d'un  nombre  fini  d'etats  possibles."  Paris,  Gauthier- 
Villars,  1938. 


390 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 
5.  Ergodic  and  Mixed  Sources 


As  we  have  indicated  above  a  discrete  source  for  our  purposes  can  be  con- 
sidered to  be  represented  by  a  Markoff  process.  Among  the  possible  discrete 
Markoff  processes  there  is  a  group  with  special  properties  of  significance  in 


D     .2 

Fig.  3 — A  graph  corresponding  to  the  source  in  example  B. 


Fig.  4 — A  graph  corresponding  to  the  source  in  example  C. 


Fig.  5 — A  graph  corresponding  to  the  source  in  example  D. 

communication  theory.  This  special  class  consists  of  the  ''ergodic"  proc- 
esses and  we  shall  call  the  corresponding  sources  ergodic  sources.  Although 
a  rigorous  definition  of  an  ergodic  process  is  somewhat  involved,  the  general 
idea  is  simple.     In  an  ergodic  process  every  sequence  produced  by  the  proc- 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  391 

ess  is  the  same  in  statistical  properties.  Thus  the  letter  frequencies, 
digram  frequencies,  etc.,  obtained  from  particular  sequences  will,  as  the 
lengths  of  the  sequences  increase,  approach  definite  limits  independent  of 
the  particular  sequence.  Actually  this  is  not  true  of  every  sequence  but  the 
set  for  which  it  is  false  has  probability  zero.  Roughly  the  ergodic  property 
means  statistical  homogeneity. 

All  the  examples  of  artificial  languages  given  above  are  ergodic.  This 
property  is  related  to  the  structure  of  the  corresponding  graph.  If  the  graph 
has  the  following  two  properties^  the  corresponding  process  will  be  ergodic : 

1.  The  graph  does  not  consist  of  two  isolated  parts  A  and  B  such  that  it  is 
impossible  to  go  from  junction  points  in  part  A  to  junction  points  in 
part  B  along  lines  of  the  graph  in  the  direction  of  arrows  and  also  im- 
possible to  go  from  junctions  in  part  B  to  junctions  in  part  A. 

2.  A  closed  series  of  fines  in  the  graph  with  all  arrows  on  the  fines  pointing 
in  the  same  orientation  will  be  called  a  ''circuit."  The  ''length"  of  a 
circuit  is  the  number  of  lines  in  it.  Thus  in  Fig.  5  the  series  BEBES 
is  a  circuit  of  length  5.  The  second  property  required  is  that  the 
greatest  common  divisor  of  the  lengths  of  all  circuits  in  the  graph  be 
one. 

If  the  first  condition  is  satisfied  but  the  second  one  violated  by  having  the 
greatest  common  divisor  equal  to  d  >  1,  the  sequences  have  a  certain  type 
of  periodic  structure.  The  various  sequences  faU  into  d  different  classes 
which  are  statistically  the  same  apart  from  a  shift  of  the  origin  (i.e.,  which 
letter  in  the  sequence  is  called  letter  1).  By  a  shift  of  from  0  up  to  c?  —  1 
any  sequence  can  be  made  statistically  equivalent  to  any  other.  A  simple 
example  with  d  =  2\s  the  following:  There  are  three  possible  letters  a,  h,  c. 
Letter  a  is  followed  with  either  h  ox  c  with  probabilities  \  and  f  respec- 
tively. Either  ft  or  c  is  always  foUowed  by  letter  a.  Thus  a  typical  sequence 
is 

ab a c a c a c ab ac ab ab ac a c 

This  type  of  situation  is  not  of  much  importance  for  our  work. 

If  the  first  condition  is  violated  the  graph  may  be  separated  into  a  set  of 
subgraphs  each  of  which  satisfies  the  first  condition.  We  will  assume  that 
the  second  condition  is  also  satisfied  for  each  subgraph.  We  have  in  this 
case  what  may  be  called  a  "mixed"  source  made  up  of  a  number  of  pure 
components.  The  components  correspond  to  the  various  subgraphs. 
If  Li ,  L2 ,  L3  ,  •  •  •  are  the  component  sources  we  may  write 

L  =  piLi  +  P2L2  +  psLz  +  •  •  • 

where  pi  is  the  probability  of  the  component  source  Li . 

^  These  are  restatements  in  terms  of  the  graph  of  conditions  given  in  Frechet. 


392  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Physically  the  situation  represented  is  this:  There  are  several  different 
sources  Li ,  L2 ,  Lz  ,  ■  •  •  which  are  each  of  homogeneous  statistical  structure 
(i.e.,  they  are  ergodic).  We  do  not  know  a  priori  which  is  to  be  used,  but 
once  the  sequence  starts  in  a  given  pure  component  Li  it  continues  indefi- 
nitely according  to  the  statistical  structure  of  that  component. 

As  an  example  one  may  take  two  of  the  processes  defined  above  and 
assume  pi  =  .2  and  p2  =  .8.     A  sequence  from  the  mixed  source 

L  =  .2  Zi  +  .8  L2 

would  be  obtained  by  choosing  first  Zi  or  L2  with  probabilities  .2  and  .8 
and  after  this  choice  generating  a  sequence  from  whichever  was  chosen. 

Except  when  the  contrary  is  stated  we  shall  assume  a  source  to  be  ergodic. 
This  assumption  enables  one  to  identify  averages  along  a  sequence  with 
averages  over  the  ensemble  of  possible  sequences  (the  probability  of  a  dis- 
crepancy being  zero).  For  example  the  relative  frequency  of  the  letter  A 
in  a  particular  infinite  sequence  will  be,  with  probabihty  one,  equal  to  its 
relative  frequency  in  the  ensemble  of  sequences. 

If  Pi  is  the  probability  of  state  i  and  pi{j)  the  transition  probability  to 
state  j,  then  for  the  process  to  be  stationary  it  is  clear  that  the  Pi  must 
satisfy  equilibrium  conditions: 

Pj  =  IlPipi(j)- 

i 

In  the  ergodic  case  it  can  be  shown  that  with  any  starting  conditions  the 
probabilities  Pj(N)  of  being  in  state  y  after  N  symbols,  approach  the  equi- 
librium values  as  TV  -^  oc  . 

6.  Choice,  Uncertainty  and  Entropy 

We  have  represented  a  discrete  information  source  as  a  Markoff  process. 
Can  we  define  a  quantity  which  will  measure,  in  some  sense,  how  much  in- 
formation is  ''produced"  by  such  a  process,  or  better,  at  what  rate  informa- 
tion is  produced? 

Suppose  we  have  a  set  of  possible  events  whose  probabilities  of  occurrence 
are  />i ,  />2 ,  •  •  •  ,  pn  -  These  probabilities  are  known  but  that  is  all  we  know 
concerning  which  event  will  occur.  Can  we  find  a  measure  of  how  much 
''choice"  is  involved  in  the  selection  of  the  event  or  of  how  uncertain  we  are 
of  the  outcome? 

If  there  is  such  a  measure,  say  H{pi ,  p2 ,  -  -  ■  ,  pn),  it  is  reasonable  to  re- 
quire of  it  the  following  properties: 

1.  H  should  be  continuous  in  the  pi . 

2.  If  all  the  />,  are  equal,  pi  =  -  ,  then  H  should  be  a  monotonic  increasing 

n 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  393 

function  of ;?.  With  equally  likely  events  there  is  more  choice,  or  un- 
certainty, when  there  are  more  possible  events. 
3.  If  a  choice  be  broken  down  into  two  successive  choices,  the  original 
H  should  be  the  weighted  sum  of  the  individual  values  of  H.  The 
meaning  of  this  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  6.  At  the  left  we  have  three 
possibilities  pi  =  h  p2  =  i,  Ps  =  i-  ^^  the  right  we  first  choose  be- 
tween two  possibilities  each  with  probability  J,  and  if  the  second  occurs 
make  another  choice  with  probabilities  §,  J.  The  final  results  have 
the  same  probabilities  as  before.  We  require,  in  this  special  case, 
that 

Hih  h  I)  =  H{h  h)  +  hH{h  \) 
The  coefficient  J  is  because  this  second  choice  only  occurs  half  the  time. 


.1/6 
Fig.  6 — Decomposition  of  a  choice  from  three  possibilities. 

In  Appendix  II,  the  following  result  is  established: 
Theorem  2:  The  only  H  satisfying  the  three  above  assumptions  is  of  the 
form : 

n 

H  =  -Kj2pilogPi 

1=1 

where  X  is  a  positive  constant. 

This  theorem,  and  the  assumptions  required  for  its  proof,  are  in  no  way 
necessary  for  the  present  theory.  It  is  given  chiefly  to  lend  a  certain  plausi- 
bility to  som.e  of  our  later  definitions.  The  real  justification  of  these  defi- 
nitions, however,  will  reside  in  their  implications. 

Quantities  of  the  form  H  =  —'^^  pi  log  pi  (the  constant  A'  merely  amounts 
to  a  choice  of  a  unit  of  measure)  play  a  central  role  in  information  theory  as 
measures  of  information,  choice  and  uncertainty.  The  form  of  H  will  be 
recognized  as  that  of  entropy  as  defined  in  certain  formulations  of  statistical 
mechanics'^  where  pi  is  the  probability  of  a  system  being  in  cell  i  of  its  phase 
space.  H  is  then,  for  example,  the  H  in  Boltzmann's  famous  H  theorem. 
We  shall  call  H  =   —  "Z  pi  log  pi  the  entropy  of  the  set  of  probabilities 

^  See,  for  example,  R.  C.  Tolman,  "Principles  of  Statistical  Mechanics,"  Oxford, 
Clarendon,  1938. 


394 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Ph  "  '  i  Pn  '  If  :^  is  a  chance  variable  we  will  write  H(x)  for  its  entropy; 
thus  X  is  not  an  argument  of  a  function  but  a  label  for  a  number,  to  differen- 
tiate it  from  H(y)  say,  the  entropy  of  the  chance  variable  y. 

The  entropy  in  the  case  of  two  possibilities  with  probabilities  p  and  q  = 
1  —  pf  namely 

H  =  -{plogp-\-  q  log  q) 

is  plotted  in  Fig.  7  as  a  function  oi  p. 

The  quantity  H  has  a  number  of  interesting  properties  which  further  sub- 
stantiate it  as  a  reasonable  measure  of  choice  or  information. 


1.0 

.9 

.8 

.7 

H      .6 
BITS 

.5 

.4 

,2 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

\ 

i 

/ 

\ 

k 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

n 

.2 


1.0 


Fig.  7 — Entropy  in  the  case  of  two  possibilities  with  probabilities  p  and  (1  —  p). 

1.  £?  =  0  if  and  only  if  all  the  pi  but  one  are  zero,  this  one  having  the 
value  unity.  Thus  only  when  we  are  certain  of  the  outcome  does  H  vanish. 
Otherwise  H  is  positive. 

2.  For  a  given  w,  £r  is  a  maximum  and  equal  to  log  n  when  all  the  pi  are 

equal  f  i.e.,  -  j  .    This  is  also  intuitively  the  most  uncertain  situation. 

3.  Suppose  there  are  two  events,  x  and  y,  in  question  with  m  possibilities 
for  the  first  and  n  for  the  second.  Let  p{i,j)  be  the  probability  of  the  joint 
occurrence  of  i  for  the  first  and  j  for  the  second.  The  entropy  of  the  joint 
event  is 

H{x,  y)  =  -Y.  Pih  j)  log  />(«,  j) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  395 

while 

H{x)  =  -  Z  p{i,  j)  log  Z  Pii,  j) 

H(y)  =  -  Z  /'(^  i)  log  Z  ^(^,  i). 

I.;  i 

It  is  easily  shown  that 

H(x,  y)  <  H{x)  +  H(y) 

with  equality  only  if  the  events  are  independent  (i.e.,  p{i,  j)  =  p{i)  p(j)). 
The  uncertainty  of  a  joint  event  is  less  than  or  equal  to  the  sum  of  the 
individual  uncertainties. 

4.  Any  change  toward  equalization  of  the  probabilities  pi ,  p2 ,  •  •  •  ,  pn 
increases  H.  Thus  if  pi  <  p2  and  we  increase  pi ,  decreasing  p2  an  equal 
amount  so  that  pi  and  p2  are  more  nearly  equal,  then  H  increases.  More 
generally,  if  we  perform  any  "averaging"  operation  on  the  pi  of  the  form 

p'i  =  Z  (J^ijpj 
i 

where  Z  <^ii  =  Z  (^a  =  1?  and  all  dij  >  0,  then  H  increases  (except  in  the 

i  j 

special  case  where  this  transformation  amounts  to  no  more  than  a  permuta- 
tion of  the  pj  with  H  of  course  remaining  the  same). 

5.  Suppose  there  are  two  chance  events  x  and  3;  as  in  3,  not  necessarily 
independent.  For  any  particular  value  i  that  x  can  assume  there  is  a  con- 
ditional probability  piij)  that  y  has  the  value  j.    This  is  given  by 

^'^'^  =  i:p(ij)- 

i 

We  define  the  conditional  entropy  of  y,  Hx{y)  as  the  average  of  the  entropy 
of  y  for  each  value  of  x,  weighted  according  to  the  probability  of  getting 
that  particular  x.     That  is 

H:c{y)  =  -Z/>(^',i)log./>i(i). 

This  quantity  measures  how  uncertain  we  are  of  y  on  the  average  when  we 
know  X.    Substituting  the  value  of  pi{j)  we  obtain 

H.{y)  =  -Z  ^0',  i)  log  p{h  j)  +  Z  pi.h  j)  log  Z  pa,  j) 

=  H{x,  y)  -  H{x) 

or 

H{x,  y)  =  H{x)  +  H,{y) 


396  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Th6  uncertainty  (or  entropy)  of  the  joint  event  x,  y  is  the  uncertainty  of  x 
plus  the  uncertainty  of  y  when  x  is  known. 
6.  From  3  and  5  we  have 

H(x)  +  H(y)  >  H(x,  y)  -  H(x)  +  H .{y) 

Hence 

H(y)  >  HS) 

The  uncertainty  of  y  is  never  increased  by  knowledge  of  x.  It  will  be  de- 
creased unless  X  and  y  are  independent  events,  in  which  case  it  is  not  changed. 

7.  The  Entropy  of  an  Information  Source 

Consider  a  discrete  source  of  the  finite  state  type  considered  above. 
For  each  possible  state  i  there  will  be  a  set  of  probabilities  pi{j)  of  pro- 
ducing the  various  possible  symbols  j.  Thus  there  is  an  entropy  Hi  for 
each  state.  The  entropy  of  the  source  will  be  defined  as  the  average  of 
these  Hi  weighted  in  accordance  with  the  probability  of  occurrence  of  the 
states  in  question: 

H  =  J^PiHi 

=    -llPiPi{j)\0opXj) 

i.j 

This  is  the  entropy  of  the  source  per  symbol  of  text.  If  the  Markoff  proc- 
ess is  proceeding  at  a  definite  time  rate  there  is  also  an  entropy  per  second 

H'=T.fiHi 

i 

where /t  is  the  average  frequency  (occurrences  per  second)  of  state  i.  Clearly 

H'  =  mH 

where  m  is  the  average  number  of  symbols  produced  per  second.  H  or  H' 
measures  the  amount  of  information  generated  by  the  source  per  symbol 
or  per  second.  If  the  logarithmic  base  is  2,  they  will  represent  bits  per 
symbol  or  per  second. 

If  successive  symbols  are  independent  then  H  is  simply  —^  pi  log  pi 
where  pi  is  the  probability  of  symbol  i.  Suppose  in  this  case  we  consider  a 
long  message  of  N  symbols.  It  will  contain  with  high  probability  about 
piN  occurrences  of  the  first  symbol,  P2N  occurrences  of  the  second,  etc. 
Hence  the  probability  of  this  particular  message  will  be  roughly 

p  =  pp'^fp^'-'-prr'' 

or 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  397 

log  />  =  iV  2  Pi  log  pi 

i 

\ogp=  -NH 

^  ^  log  1/p 

N 

H  is  thus  approximately  the  logarithm  of  the  reciprocal  probability  of  a 
typical  long  sequence  divided  by  the  number  of  symbols  in  the  sequence. 
The  same  result  holds  for  any  source.  Stated  more  precisely  we  have  (see 
Appendix  III): 

Theorem  3 :  Given  any  e  >  0  and  6  >  0,  we  can  find  an  No  such  that  the  se- 
quences of  any  length  N  >  No  fall  into  two  classes: 

1.  A  set  whose  total  probability  is  less  than  e. 

2.  The  remainder,  all  of  whose  members  have  probabilities  satisfying  the 
inequality 


H 


<  5 


log  p~^ 
In  other  words  we  are  almost  certain  to  have      ,;      very  close  to  H  when  N 

N  ^ 

is  large. 

A  closely  related  result  deals  with  the  number  of  sequences  of  various 
probabilities.  Consider  again  the  sequences  of  length  N  and  let  them  be 
arranged  in  order  of  decreasing  probability.  We  define  n{q)  to  be  the 
number  we  must  take  from  this  set  starting  with  the  most  probable  one  in 
order  to  accumulate  a  total  probability  q  for  those  taken. 
Theorem  4: 

Lim^-^)  =  ^ 

•TV -00  N 

when  q  does  not  equal  0  ot  1. 

We  may  interpret  log  n{q)  as  the  number  of  bits  required  to  specify  the 
sequence  when  we  consider  only  the  most  probable  sequences  with  a  total 

probability  q.     Then  is  the  number  of  bits  per  symbol  for  the 

specification.  The  theorem  says  that  for  large  N  this  will  be  independent  of 
q  and  equal  to  H.  The  rate  of  growth  of  the  logarithm  of  the  number  of 
reasonably  probable  sequences  is  given  by  H,  regardless  of  our  interpreta- 
tion of  ''reasonably  probable."  Due  to  these  results,  which  are  proved  in 
appendix  III,  it  is  possible  for  most  purposes  to  treat  the  long  sequences  as 
though  there  were  just  2"'^  of  them,  each  with  a  probability  2~  ^ . 


398  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  next  two  theorems  show  that  H  and  H'  can  be  determined  by  limit- 
ing operations  directly  from  the  statistics  of  the  message  sequences,  without 
reference  to  the  states  and  transition  probabilities  between  states. 
Theorem  5:  Let  p{Bi)  be  the  probability  of  a  sequence  Bi  of  symbols  from 
the  source.    Let 

where  the  sum  is  over  all  sequences  Bi  containing  N  symbols.  Then  Gn 
is  a  monotonic  decreasing  function  of  N  and 

Lim  Gn  =  H. 

N-*ao 

Theorem  6:  Let  p(Bi ,  Sj)  be  the  probability  of  sequence  Bi  followed  by 
symbol  Sj  and  pBi(Sj)  =  p(Bi ,  Sj)/p{Bi)  be  the  conditional  probability  of 
Sj  after  B » .    Let 

Fn=  -Ilp(Bi,Sj)  log  Pn,{Sj) 

where  the  sum  is  over  all  blocks  Bi  oi  N  —  1  symbols  and  over  all  symbols 
Sj .    Then  Fn  is  a  monotonic  decreasing  function  of  N, 

Fn  =  NGn-{N-  1)G^_i, 

Fn  <  Gn  , 
and  Lim  Fn  =  H. 

JV-»oo 

These  results  are  derived  in  appendix  III.  They  show  that  a  series  of 
approximations  to  H  can  be  obtained  by  considering  only  the  statistical 
structure  of  the  sequences  extending  over  1,  2,  ■  •  -  N  symbols.  Fn  is  the 
better  approximation.  In  fact  Fn  is  the  entropy  of  the  N^^  order  approxi- 
mation to  the  source  of  the  type  discussed  above.  If  there  are  no  statistical 
influences  extending  over  more  than  N  symbols,  that  is  if  the  conditional 
probability  of  the  next  symbol  knowing  the  preceding  (N  —  1)  is  not 
changed  by  a  knowledge  of  any  before  that,  then  Fn  =  H.  Fn  of  course  is 
the  conditional  entropy  of  the  next  symbol  when  the  (N  —  1)  preceding 
ones  are  known,  while  Gn  is  the  entropy  per  symbol  of  blocks  of  A^  symbols. 

The  ratio  of  the  entropy  of  a  source  to  the  maximum  value  it  could  have 
while  still  restricted  to  the  same  symbols  will  be  called  its  relative  entropy. 
This  is  the  maximum  compressfon  possible  when  we  encode  into  the  same 
alphabet.    One  minus  the  relative  entropy  is  the  redundancy.    The  redun- 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  399 

dancy  of  ordinary  English,  not  considering  statistical  structure  over  greater 
distances  than  about  eight  letters  is  roughly  50%.  This  means  that  when 
we  write  English  half  of  what  we  write  is  determined  by  the  structure  of  the 
language  and  half  is  chosen  freely.  The  figure  50%  was  found  by  several 
independent  methods  which  all  gave  results  in  this  neighborhood.  One  is 
by  calculation  of  the  entropy  of  the  approximations  to  Enghsh.  A  second 
method  is  to  delete  a  certain  fraction  of  the  letters  from  a  sample  of  English 
text  and  then  let  someone  attempt  to  restore  them.  If  they  can  be  re- 
stored when  50%  are  deleted  the  redundancy  must  be  greater  than  50%. 
A  third  method  depends  on  certain  known  results  in  cryptography. 

Two  extremes  of  redundancy  in  EngHsh  prose  are  represented  by  Basic 
Enghsh  and  by  James  Joyces'  book  "Finigans  Wake."  The  Basic  English 
vocabulary  is  limited  to  850  words  and  the  redundancy  is  very  high.  This 
is  reflected  in  the  expansion  that  occurs  when  a  passage  is  translated  into 
Basic  English.  Joyce  on  the  other  hand  enlarges  the  vocabulary  and  is 
alleged  to  achieve  a  compression  of  semantic  content. 

The  redundancy  of  a  language  is  related  to  the  existence  of  crossword 
puzzles.  If  the  redundancy  is  zero  any  sequence  of  letters  is  a  reasonable 
text  in  the  language  and  any  two  dimensional  array  of  letters  forms  a  cross- 
word puzzle.  If  the  redundancy  is  too  high  the  language  imposes  too 
many  constraints  for  large  crossword  puzzles  to  be  possible.  A  more  de- 
tailed analysis  shows  that  if  we  assume  the  constraints  imposed  by  the 
language  are  of  a  rather  chaotic  and  random  nature,  large  crossword  puzzles 
are  just  possible  when  the  redundancy  is  50%.  If  the  redundancy  is  33%, 
three  dimensional  crossword  puzzles  should  be  possible,  etc. 

8.  Representation  of  the  Encoding  and  Decoding  Operations 

We  have  yet  to  represent  mathematically  the  operations  performed  by 
the  transmitter  and  receiver  in  encoding  and  decoding  the  information. 
Either  of  these  will  be  called  a  discrete  transducer.  The  input  to  the 
transducer  is  a  sequence  of  input  symbols  and  its  output  a  sequence  of  out- 
put symbols.  The  transducer  may  have  an  internal  memory  so  that  its 
output  depends  not  only  on  the  present  input  symbol  but  also  on  the  past 
history.  We  assume  that  the  internal  memory  is  finite,  i.e.  there  exists 
a  finite  number  m  of  possible  states  of  the  transducer  and  that  its  output  is 
a  function  of  the  present  state  and  the  present  input  S3anbol.  The  next 
state  will  be  a  second  function  of  these  two  quantities.  Thus  a  transducer 
can  be  described  by  two  functions: 

yn   =  fiXn  ,  an) 
an+1   =    giXn  ,  an) 


400  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where:  .r„  is  the   w"'   input  symbol, 

an  is  the  state  of  the  transducer  when  the  n    input  symbol  is  introduced, 

yn  is  the  output  symbol  (or  sequence  of  output  symbols)  produced  when 
Xn  is  introduced  if  the  state  is  a„. 

If  the  output  symbols  of  one  transducer  can  be  identified  with  the  input 
symbols  of  a  second,  they  can  be  connected  in  tandem  and  the  result  is  also 
a  transducer.  If  there  exists  a  second  transducer  w^hich  operates  on  the  out- 
put of  the  first  and  recovers  the  original  input,  the  first  transducer  will  be 
called  non-singular  and  the  second  will  be  called  its  inverse. 
Theorem  7:  The  output  of  a  finite  state  transducer  driven  by  a  finite  state 
statistical  source  is  a  finite  state  statistical  source,  with  entropy  (per  unit 
time)  less  than  or  equal  to  that  of  the  input.  If  the  transducer  is  non- 
singular  they  are  equal. 

Let  a  represent  the  state  of  the  source,  which  produces  a  sequence  of 
symbols  Xi  ;  and  let  /3  be  the  state  of  the  transducer,  which  produces,  in  its 
output,  blocks  of  symbols  yj  .  The  combined  system  can  be  represented 
by  the  "product  state  space"  of  pairs  (a,  j8).  Two  points  in  the  space, 
(ai ,  j8i)  and  {ai^^)^  are  connected  by  a  line  if  (x\  can  produce  an  x  which 
changes  jSi  to  ^i ,  and  this  line  is  given  the  probability  of  that  x  in  this  case. 
The  line  is  labeled  with  the  block  of  y^  symbols  produced  by  the  transducer. 
The  entropy  of  the  output  can  be  calculated  as  the  weighted  sum  over  the 
states.  If  we  sum  first  on  ^  each  resulting  term  is  less  than  or  equal  to  the 
corresponding  term  for  a,  hence  the  entropy  is  not  increased.  If  the  trans- 
ducer is  non-singular  let  its  output  be  connected  to  the  inverse  transducer. 
If  Ex  ,  El  and  Ez  are  the  output  entropies  of  the  source,  the  first  and 
second  transducers  respectively,  then  Ei  >  E2  ^  E^  =  Ei  and  therefore 
El  =  E2  . 

Suppose  we  have  a  system  of  constraints  on  possible  sequences  of  the  type 
which  can  be  represented  by  a  linear  graph  as  in  Fig.  2.  If  probabilities 
p^ij  were  assigned  to  the  various  lines  connecting  state  i  to  state 7  this  would 
become  a  source.  There  is  one  particular  assignment  which  maximizes  the 
resulting  entropy  (see  Appendix  IV). 

Theorem  8:  Let  the  system  of  constraints  considered  as  a  channel  have  a 
capacity  C.     If  we  assign 

where  t^j   is  the  duration  of  the  i"*  symbol  leading  from  state  i  to  state  / 
and  the  Bi  satisfy 

then  E  is  maximized  and  equal  to  C. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  401 

By  proper  assignment  of  the  transition  probabilities  the  entropy  of  sym- 
bols on  a  channel  can  be  maximized  at  the  channel  capacity. 

9.  The  Fundamental  Theorem  for  a  Noiseless  Channel 

We  will  now  justify  our  interpretation  of  H  as  the  rate  of  generating 
information  by  proving  that  H  determines  the  channel  capacity  required 
with  most  efficient  coding. 

Theorem  9:  Let  a  source  have  entropy  H  (bits  per  symbol)  and  a  channel 
have  a  capacity  C  (bits  per  second).    Then  it  is  possible  to  encode  the  output 

C 

of  the  source  in  such  a  way  as  to  transmit  at  the  average  rate  -fj~  ^  symbols 

per  second  over  the  channel  where  t  is  arbitrarily  small.     It  is  not  possible 

C 

to  transmit  at  an  average  rate  greater  than  —  . 

C 
The  converse  part  of  the  theorem,  that  —  cannot  be  exceeded,  may  be 

H 

proved  by  noting  that  the  entropy  of  the  channel  input  per  second  is  equal 

to  that  of  the  source,  since  the  transmitter  must  be  non-singular,  and  also 

this  entropy  cannot  exceed  the  channel  capacity.     Hence  H'  <  C  and  the 

number  of  symbols  per  second  =  H' /H  <  C/H. 

The  first  part  of  the  theorem  will  be  proved  in  two  different  ways.     The 

first  method  is  to  consider  the  set  of  all  sequences  of  N  symbols  produced  by 

the  source.     For  N  large  we  can  divide  these  into  two  groups,  one  containing 

less  than  2^''^''^'^  members  and  the  second  containing  less  than  2^"^  members 

(where  R  is  the  logarithm  of  the  number  of  different  symbols)  and  having  a 

total  probabiUty  less  than  /x.     As  N  increases  rj  and  ju  approach  zero.     The 

number  of  signals  of  duration  T  in  the  channel  is  greater  than  2^^^^^  with 

6  small  when  T  is  large.     If  we  choose 


=(?-) 


then  there  will  be  a  sufficient  number  of  sequences  of  channel  symbols  for 
the  high  probability  group  when  .V  and  T  are  sufficiently  large  (however 
small  X)  and  also  some  additional  ones.  The  high  probability  group  is 
coded  in  an  arbitrary  one  to  one  way  into  this  set.  The  remaining  sequences 
are  represented  by  larger  sequences,  starting  and  ending  with  one  of  the 
sequences  not  used  for  the  high  probability  group.  This  special  sequence 
acts  as  a  start  and  stop  signal  for  a  different  code.  In  between  a  sufficient 
time  is  allowed  to  give  enough  different  sequences  for  all  the  low  probability 
messages.    This  will  require 


(?+')» 


402  BELL  SYSTEM  -  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where  (p  is  small.    The  mean  rate  of  transmission  in  message  s>Tnbols  per 
second  will  then  be  greater  than 

c 

As  N  increases  6,  X  and  <p  approach  zero  and  the  rate  approaches  —  . 

H 

Another  method  of  performing  this  coding  and  proving  the  theorem  can 
be  described  as  follows:  Arrange  the  messages  of  length  N  in  order  of  decreas- 
ing probability  and  suppose  their  probabilities  sltq  pi  >  p2  '>  p3  .  ■  -  ^  pn  - 

s-l 

Let  P.  =  ^  pi ;  that  is  P«  is  the  cimiulative  probability  up  to,  but  not 


mclading,  pg .  We  first  encode  into  a  binary  system.  The  binary  code  for 
message  s  is  obtained  by  expanding  P«  as  a  binary  number.  The  expansion 
is  carried  out  to  m,  places,  where  nis  is  the  integer  satisfying: 

log2  --  <  nis  <  1  -{■  log2  — 
p,  ps 

Thus  the  messages  of  high  probability  are  represented  by  short  codes  and 
those  of  low  probability  by  long  codes.     From  these  inequalities  we  have 

'  <P,<  ' 


2^9  —  ^'       2"**"-^ 

The  code  for  Ps  will  differ  from  all  succeeding  ones  in  one  or  more  of  its 

nig  places,  since  all  the  remaining  Pi  are  at  least  -^  larger  and  their  binary 

expansions  therefore  differ  in  the  first  w«  places.  Consequently  all  the  codes 
are  different  and  it  is  possible  to  recover  the  message  from  its  code.  If  the 
channel  sequences  are  not  already  sequences  of  binary  digits,  they  can  be 
ascribed  binary  numbers  in  an  arbitrary  fashion  and  the  binary  code  thus 
translated  into  signals  suitable  for  the  channel. 

The  average  number  H'  of  binary  digits  used  per  symbol  of  original  mes- 
sage is  easily  estimated.    We  have 

H'  =^i:m.pg 

But, 

i2(log,l),,<^2..^<i.s(l  +  log,l)^ 

and  therefore, 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  403 

-up,  log  p,<H'  <^-  Zp,  log  p. 

As  N  increases  —  2/>g  log  />,  approaches  Hj  the  entropy  of  the  source  and  H' 
approaches  H. 
We  see  from  this  that  the  inefficiency  in  coding,  when  only  a  finite  delay  of 

N  symbols  is  used,  need  not  be  greater  than  —  plus  the  diflference  between 

the  trae  entropy  H  and  the  entropy  Gx  calculated  for  sequences  of  length  N. 
The  per  cent  excess  time  needed  over  the  ideal  is  therefore  less  than 

^  +  J_    _  1. 
H  ^  EN 

This  method  of  encoding  is  substantially  the  same  as  one  found  inde- 
pendently by  R.  M.  Fano.^  His  method  is  to  arrange  the  messages  of  length 
N  in  order  of  decreasing  probability.  Divide  this  series  into  two  groups  of 
as  nearly  equal  probability  as  possible.  If  the  message  is  in  the  first  group 
its  first  binary  digit  will  be  0,  otherwise  1.  The  groups  are  similarly  divided 
into  subsets  of  nearly  equal  probability  and  the  particular  subset  determines 
the  second  binary  digit.  This  process  is  continued  until  each  subset  contains 
only  one  message.  It  is  easily  seen  that  apart  from  minor  differences  (gen- 
erally in  the  last  digit)  this  amounts  to  the  same  thing  as  the  arithmetic 
process  described  above. 

10.  Discussion 

In  order  to  obtain  the  maximum  power  transfer  from  a  generator  to  a  load 
a  transformer  must  in  general  be  introduced  so  that  the  generator  as  seen 
from  the  load  has  the  load  resistance.  The  situation  here  is  roughly  anal- 
ogous. The  transducer  which  does  the  encoding  should  match  the  source 
to  the  channel  in  a  statistical  sense.  The  source  as  seen  from  the  channel 
through  the  transducer  should  have  the  same  statistical  structure  as  the 
source  which  maximizes  the  entropy  in  the  channel.  The  content  of 
Theorem  9  is  that,  although  an  exact  match  is  not  in  general  possible,  we  can 
approximate  it  as  closely  as  desired.  The  ratio  of  the  actual  rate  of  trans- 
mission to  the  capacity  C  may  be  called  the  efficiency  of  the  coding  system. 
This  is  of  course  equal  to  the  ratio  of  the  actual  entropy  of  the  channel 
symbols  to  the  maximum  possible  entropy. 

In  general,  ideal  or  nearly  ideal  encoding  requires  a  long  delay  in  the 
transmitter  and  receiver.  In  the  noiseless  case  which  we  have  been 
considering,  the  main  function  of  this  delay  is  to  allow  reasonably  good 

'  Technical  Report  No.  65,  The  Research  Laboratory  of  Electronics,  M.  I.  T. 


404  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

matching  of  probabilities  to  corresponding  lengths  of  sequences.  With  a 
good  code  the  logarithm  of  the  reciprocal  probability  of  a  long  message 
must  be  proportional  to  the  duration  of  the  corresponding  signal,  in  fact 

log  P"'  _  r 

must  be  small  for  all  but  a  small  fraction  of  the  long  messages. 

If  a  source  can  produce  only  one  particular  message  its  entropy  is  zero, 
and  no  channel  is  required.  For  example,  a  computing  machine  set  up  to 
calculate  the  successive  digits  of  tt  produces  a  definite  sequence  with  no 
chance  element.  No  channel  is  required  to  ''transmit"  this  to  another 
point.  One  could  construct  a  second  machine  to  compute  the  same  sequence 
at  the  point.  However,  this  may  be  impractical.  In  such  a  case  we  can 
choose  to  ignore  some  or  all  of  the  statistical  knowledge  we  have  of  the 
source.  We  might  consider  the  digits  of  tt  to  be  a  random  sequence  in  that 
we  construct  a  system  capable  of  sending  any  sequence  of  digits.  In  a 
similar  way  we  may  choose  to  use  some  of  our  statistical  knowledge  of  Eng- 
lish in  constructing  a  code,  but  not  all  of  it.  In  such  a  case  we  consider  the 
source  with  the  maximum  entropy  subject  to  the  statistical  conditions  we 
wish  to  retain.  The  entropy  of  this  source  determines  the  channel  capacity 
which  is  necessary  and  sufficient.  In  the  tt  example  the  only  information 
retained  is  that  all  the  digits  are  chosen  from  the  set  0,  1,  .  .  .,  9.  In  the 
case  of  English  one  might  wish  to  use  the  statistical  saving  possible  due  to 
letter  frequencies,  but  nothing  else.  The  maximum  entropy  source  is  then 
the  first  approximation  to  English  and  its  entropy  determines  the  required 
channel  capacity. 

11.  Examples 

As  a  simple  example  of  some  of  these  results  consider  a  source  which 
produces  a  sequence  of  letters  chosen  from  among  ^1,  5,  C,  D  with  prob- 
abilities J,  J,  J,  I,  successive  symbols  being  chosen  independently.  We 
have 

^  =   -(ilogi+ilogi  +  f  logi) 

=  \  bits  per  symbol . 

Thus  we  can  approximate  a  coding  system  to  encode  messages  from  this 
source  into  binary  digits  with  an  average  of  \  binary  digit  per  symbol. 
In  this  case  we  can  actually  achieve  the  limiting  value  by  the  following  code 
(obtained  by  the  method  of  the  second  proof  of  Theorem  9) : 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  405 

^0 
B  10 

C  110 

D  111 

The  average  number  of  binary  digits  used  in  encoding  a  sequence  of  N  sym- 
bols will  be 

A^(|  X  1  +  i  X  2  +  f  X  3)  =  iiV 

It  is  easily  seen  that  the  binary  digits  0,  1  have  probabilities  J,  J  so  the  ^  for 
the  coded  sequences  is  one  bit  per  symbol.  Since,  on  the  average,  we  have  i 
binary  symbols  per  original  letter,  the  entropies  on  a  time  basis  are  the 
same.  The  maximum  possible  entropy  for  the  original  set  is  log  4  =  2, 
occurring  when  A,  B,C,  D  have  probabilities  f,  j,  J,  f .  Hence  the  relative 
entropy  is  J.  We  can  translate  the  binary  sequences  into  the  original  set  of 
symbols  on  a  two- to-one  basis  by  the  following  table: 

00  A' 

01  B' 

10  C 

11  D' 

This  double  process  then  encodes  the  original  message  into  the  same  symbols 
but  with  an  average  compression  ratio  I  . 

As  a  second  example  consider  a  source  which  produces  a  sequence  of  .4's 
and  5's  with  probability  p  for  A  and  qior  B.     lip  <  <  q  we  have 

H=  -log  p\\  -  py-' 
=  -p\ogp{\-pr-'"' 

p 

In  such  a  case  one  can  construct  a  fairly  good  coding  of  the  message  on  a 
0,  1  channel  by  sending  a  special  sequence,  say  0000,  for  the  infrequent 
symbol  .4  and  then  a  sequence  indicating  the  number  of  5's  following  it. 
This  could  be  indicated  by  the  binary  representation  with  all  numbers  con- 
taining the  special  sequence  deleted.  All  numbers  up  to  16  are  represented 
as  usual;  16  is  represented  by  the  next  binary  number  after  16  which  does 
not  contain  four  zeros,  namely  17  =  10001,  etc. 

It  can  be  shown  that  as  /?  -^  0  the  coding  approaches  ideal  provided  the 
length  of  the  special  sequence  is  properly  adjusted. 


406  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

PART  II:  THE  DISCRETE   CHANNEL  WITH  NOISE 
11.  Representation  or  a  Noisy  Discrete  Channel 

We  now  consider  the  case  where  the  signal  is  perturbed  by  noise  during 
transmission  or  at  one  or  the  other  of  the  terminals.  This  means  that  the 
received  signal  is  not  necessarily  the  same  as  that  sent  out  by  the  trans- 
mitter. Two  cases  may  be  distinguished.  If  a  particular  transmitted  signal 
always  produces  the  same  received  signal,  i.e.  the  received  signal  is  a  definite 
function  of  the  transmitted  signal,  then  the  effect  may  be  called  distortion. 
If  this  function  has  an  inverse — no  two  transmitted  signals  producing  the 
same  received  signal — distortion  may  be  corrected,  at  least  in  principle,  by 
merely  performing  the  inverse  functional  operation  on  the  received  signal. 

The  case  of  interest  here  is  that  in  which  the  signal  does  not  always  undergo 
the  same  change  in  transmission.  In  this  case  we  may  assume  the  received 
signal  £  to  be  a  function  of  the  transmitted  signal  S  and  a  second  variable, 
the  noise  N. 

E  =  f(S,  N) 

The  noise  is  considered  to  be  a  chance  variable  just  as  the  message  was 
above.  In  general  it  may  be  represented  by  a  suitable  stochastic  process. 
The  most  general  t3Ape  of  noisy  discrete  channel  we  shall  consider  is  a  general- 
ization of  the  finite  state  noise  free  channel  described  previously.  We 
assume  a  finite  number  of  states  and  a  set  of  probabilities 

This  is  the  probability,  if  the  channel  is  in  state  a  and  symbol  i  is  trans- 
mitted, that  symbol  J  will  be  received  and  the  channel  left  in  state  /3.  Thus 
a  and  jS  range  over  the  possible  states,  i  over  the  possible  transmitted  signals 
and  j  over  the  possible  received  signals.  In  the  case  where  successive  sym- 
bols are  independently  perturbed  by  the  noise  there  is  only  one  state,  and 
the  channel  is  described  by  the  set  of  transition  probabilities  pi(j),  the  prob- 
ability of  transmitted  symbol  i  being  received  as  j. 

If  a  noisy  channel  is  fed  by  a  source  there  are  two  statistical  processes  at 
work:  the  source  and  the  noise.  Thus  there  are  a  number  of  entropies  that 
can  be  calculated.  First  there  is  the  entropy  H{x)  of  the  source  or  of  the 
input  to  the  channel  (these  will  be  equal  if  the  transmitter  is  non-singular). 
The  entropy  of  the  output  of  the  channel,  i.e.  the  received  signal,  will  be 
denoted  by  H(y).  In  the  noiseless  case  H(y)  =  H(x).  The  joint  entropy  of 
input  and  output  will  be  II (xy).  Finally  there  are  two  conditional  entro- 
pies Hxiy)  and  Hyix)^  the  entropy  of  the  output  when  the  input  is  known 
and  conversely.     Among  these  quantities  we  have  the  relations 

H{x,  y)  =  H{x)  +  HJy)  =  H{y)  +  Hy{x) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  407 

All  of  these  entropies  can  be  measured  on  a  per-second  or  a  per-symbol 
basis. 

12.  Equivocation  and  Channel  Capacity 

If  the  channel  is  noisy  it  is  not  in  general  possible  to  reconstruct  the  orig- 
inal message  or  the  transmitted  signal  with  certainty  by  any  operation  on  the 
received  signal  E.  There  are,  however,  ways  of  transmitting  the  information 
which  are  optimal  in  combating  noise.  This  is  the  problem  which  we  now 
consider. 

Suppose  there  are  two  possible  symbols  0  and  1,  and  we  are  transmitting 
at  a  rate  of  1000  symbols  per  second  with  probabilities  po  =  pi  =  i  .  Thus 
our  source  is  producing  information  at  the  rate  of  1000  bits  per  second.  Dur- 
ing transmission  the  noise  introduces  errors  so  that,  on  the  average,  1  in  100 
is  received  incorrectly  (a  0  as  1,  or  1  as  0).  What  is  the  rate  of  transmission 
of  information?  Certainly  less  than  1000  bits  per  second  since  about  1% 
of  the  received  symbols  are  incorrect.  Our  first  impulse  might  be  to  say  the 
rate  is  990  bits  per  second,  merely  subtracting  the  expected  number  of  errors. 
This  is  not  satisfactory  since  it  fails  to  take  into  account  the  recipient's 
lack  of  knowledge  of  where  the  errors  occur.  We  may  carry  it  to  an  extreme 
case  and  suppose  the  noise  so  great  that  the  received  symbols  are  entirely 
independent  of  the  transmitted  symbols.  The  probability  of  receiving  1  is 
J  whatever  was  transmitted  and  similarly  for  0.  Then  about  half  of  the 
received  syntbols  are  correct  due  to  chance  alone,  and  we  would  be  giving 
the  system  credit  for  transmitting  500  bits  per  second  while  actually  no 
information  is  being  transmitted  at  all.  Equally  "good"  transmission 
would  be  obtained  by  dispensing  with  the  channel  entirely  and  flipping  a 
coin  at  the  receiving  point. 

Evidently  the  proper  correction  to  apply  to  the  amount  of  information 
transmitted  is  the  amount  of  this  information  which  is  missing  in  the  re- 
ceived signal,  or  alternatively  the  uncertainty  when  we  have  received  a 
signal  of  what  was  actually  sent.  From  our  previous  discussion  of  entropy 
as  a  measure  of  uncertainty  it  seems  reasonable  to  use  the  conditional 
entropy  of  the  message,  knowing  the  received  signal,  as  a  measure  of  this 
missing  information.  This  is  indeed  the  proper  definition,  as  we  shall  see 
later.  Following  this  idea  the  rate  of  actual  transmission,  R,  would  be  ob- 
tained by  subtracting  from  the  rate  of  production  (i.e.,  the  entropy  of  the 
source)  the  average  rate  of  conditional  entropy. 

R  =  H{x)  -  Hy{x) 

The  conditional  entropy  Hy{x)  will,  for  convenience,  be  called  the  equi- 
vocation.    It  measures  the  average  ambiguity  of  the  received  signal. 


408  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

In  the  example  considered  above,  if  a  0  is  received  the  a  postericri  prob- 
abiHty  that  a  0  was  transmitted  is  .99,  and  that  a  1  was  transmitted  is 
.01.    These  figures  are  reversed  if  a  1  is  received.     Hence 

;  Hy{x)  =  -  f.99  log  .99  +  0.01  log  0.01] 

=  .081  bits/symbol 

or  81  bits  per  second.  We  may  say  that  the  system  is  transmitting  at  a  rate 
1000  —  81  =  919  bits  per  second.  In  the  extreme  case  where  a  0  is  equally 
likely  to  be  received  as  a  0  or  1  and  similarly  for  1,  the  a  posteriori  proba- 
bilities are  J,  J  and 

Hy{x)  =  -  [^  log  i  +  I  log  i] 

=  1  bit  per  symbol 

or  1000  bits  per  second.  The  rate  of  transmission  is  then  0  as  it  should 
be. 

The  following  theorem  gives  a  direct  intuitive  interpretation  of  the 
equivocation  and  also  serves  to  justify  it  as  the  unique  appropriate  measure. 
We  consider  a  communication  system  and  an  observer  (or  auxiliary  device) 
who  can  see  both  what  is  sent  and  what  is  recovered  (with  erro'.s 
due  to  noise) .  This  observer  notes  the  errors  in  the  recovered  message  and 
transmits  data  to  the  receiving  point  over  a  ''correction  channel"  to  enable 
the  receiver  to  correct  the  errors.  The  situation  is  indicated  schematically 
in  Fig.  8. 

Theorem  10:  If  the  correction  channel  has  a  capacity  equal  to  Hy{x)  it  is 
possible  to  so  encode  the  correction  data  as  to  send  it  over  this  channel 
and  correct  all  but  an  arbitrarily  small  fraction  e  of  the  errors.  This  is  not 
possible  if  the  channel  capacity  is  less  than  Hy{x). 

Roughly  then,  Hy{x)  is  the  amount  of  additional  information  that  must  be 
supplied  per  second  at  the  receiving  point  to  correct  the  received  message. 

To  prove  the  first  part,  consider  long  sequences  of  received  message  M' 
and  corresponding  original  message  M.  There  will  be  logarithmically 
THy(x)  of  the  M's  which  could  reasonably  have  produced  each  M'.  Thus 
we  have  THy{x)  binary  digits  to  send  each  T  seconds.  This  can  be  done 
with  €  frequency  of  errors  on  a  channel  of  capacity  Hy{x). 

The  second  part  can  be  proved  by  noting,  first,  that  for  any  discrete  chance 
variables  x^y^z 

Hy(x,  z)  >  Hyix) 

The  left-hand  side  can  be  expanded  to  give 

Hy,{x)     >    Hy{x)    -    Hy{z)     >     Hyix)     -     //(:) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION 


409 


If  we  identify  .v  as  the  output  of  the  source,  y  as  the  received  signal  and  z 
as  the  signal  sent  over  the  correction  channel,  then  the  right-hand  side  is  the 
equivocation  less  the  rate  of  transmission  over  the  correction  channel.  If 
the  capacity  of  this  channel  is  less  than  the  equivocation  the  right-hand  side 
will  be  greater  than  zero  and  Hyz{x)  >  0.  But  this  is  the  uncertainty  of 
what  was  sent,  knowing  both  the  received  signal  and  the  correction  signal. 
If  this  is  greater  than  zero  the  frequency  of  errors  cannot  be  arbitrarily 
small. 
Example: 

Suppose  the  errors  occur  at  random  in  a  sequence  of  binary  digits :  proba- 
bility p  that  a  digit  is  wrong  and  q  =  1  —  p  that  it  is  right.  These  errors 
can  be  corrected  if  their  position  is  known.  Thus  the  correction  channel 
need  only  send  information  as  to  these  positions.     This  amounts  to  trans- 


CORRECTION 

DATA 

OBSERVER 

i 

K 

1 

K 

1'*" 

SOURCE  TRANSMITTER  RECEIVER 

Fig.  8 — Schematic  diagram  of  a  correction  system. 


CORRECTING 
DEVICE 


mitting  from  a  source  which  produces  binary  digits  with  probability  p  for 
1  (correct)  and  q  for  0  (incorrect).     This  requires  a  channel  of  capacity 

-Iplogp  +  q  log  q] 

which  is  the  equivocation  of  the  original  system. 

The  rate  of  transmission  R  can  be  written  in  two  other  forms  due  to  the 
identities  noted  above.     We  have 

R  =  H{x)  -  Hy{x) 

=  H{y)  -  H.{y) 

=  H{x)  +  H{y)  -  H{x,  y). 

The  first  defining  expression  has  already  been  interpreted  as  the  amount  of 
information  sent  less  the  uncertainty  of  what  was  sent.     The  second  meas- 


410  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

ures  the  amount  received  less  the  part  of  this  which  is  due  to  noise.  The 
third  is  the  sum  of  the  two  amounts  less  the  joint  entropy  and  therefore  in  a 
sense  is  the  number  of  bits  per  second  common  to  the  two.  Thus  all  three 
expressions  have  a  certain  intuitive  significance. 

The  capacity  C  of  a  noisy  channel  should  be  the  maximum  possible  rate 
of  transmission,  i.e.,  the  rate  when  the  source  is  properly  matched  to  the 
channel.     We  therefore  define  the  channel  capacity  by 

C  =  Max  {H{x)  -  Hy{x)) 

where  the  maximum  is  with  respect  to  all  possible  information  sources  used 
as  input  to  the  channel.  If  the  channel  is  noiseless,  Hy{x)  =  0.  The  defini- 
tion is  then  equivalent  to  that  already  given  for  a  noiseless  channel  since  the 
maximum  entropy  for  the  channel  is  its  capacity. 

13.  The  Fundamental  Theorem  for  a  Discrete  Channel  with 

Noise 

It  may  seem  surprising  that  we  should  define  a  definite  capacity  C  for 
a  noisy  channel  since  we  can  never  send  certain  information  in  such  a  case. 
It  is  clear,  however,  that  by  sending  the  information  in  a  redundant  form  the 
probability  of  errors  can  be  reduced.  For  example,  by  repeating  the 
message  many  times  and  by  a  statistical  study  of  the  different  received 
versions  of  the  message  the  probability  of  errors  could  be  made  very  small. 
One  would  expect,  however,  that  to  make  this  probability  of  errors  approach 
zero,  the  redundancy  of  the  encoding  must  increase  indefinitely,  and  the  rate 
of  transmission  therefore  approach  zero.  This  is  by  no  means  true.  If  it 
were,  there  would  not  be  a  very  well  defined  capacity,  but  only  a  capacity 
for  a  given  frequency  of  errors,  or  a  given  equivocation;  the  capacity  going 
down  as  the  error  requirements  are  made  more  stringent.  Actually  the 
capacity  C  defined  above  has  a  very  definite  significance.  It  is  possible 
to  send  information  at  the  rate  C  through  the  channel  with  as  small  a  fre- 
quency of  errors  or  equivocation  as  desired  by  proper  encoding.  This  state- 
ment is  not  true  for  any  rate  greater  than  C.  If  an  attempt  is  made  to 
transmit  at  a  higher  rate  than  C,  say  C  +  i?i ,  then  there  will  necessarily 
be  an  equivocation  equal  to  a  greater  than  the  excess  Ri .  Nature  takes 
payment  by  requiring  just  that  much  uncertainty,  so  that  we  are  not 
actually  getting  any  more  than  C  through  correctly. 

The  situation  is  indicated  in  Fig.  9.  The  rate  of  information  into  the 
channel  is  plotted  horizontally  and  the  equivocation  vertically.  Any  point 
above  the  heavy  line  in  the  shaded  region  can  be  attained  and  those  below 
cannot.  The  points  on  the  line  cannot  in  general  be  attained,  but  there  will 
usually  be  two  points  on  the  Hne  that  can. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION 


411 


These  results  are  the  main  justification  for  the  definition  of  C  and  will 
now  be  proved. 

Theorem  11.  Let  a  discrete  channel  have  the  capacity  C  and  a  discrete 
source  the  entropy  per  second  H.  li  H  <  C  there  exists  a  coding  system 
such  that  the  output  of  the  source  can  be  transmitted  over  the  channel  with 
an  arbitrarily  small  frequency  of  errors  (or  an  arbitrarily  small  equivocation). 
li  H  >  C  it  is  possible  to  encode  the  source  so  that  the  equivocation  is  less 
than  H  —  C  -\-  e  where  e  is  arbitrarily  small.  There  is  no  method  of  encod- 
ing which  gives  an  equivocation  less  than  H  —  C. 

The  method  of  proving  the  first  part  of  this  theorem  is  not  by  exhibiting 
a  coding  method  having  the  desired  properties,  but  by  showing  that  such  a 
code  must  exist  in  a  certain  group  of  codes.  In  fact  we  will  average  the 
frequency  of  errors  over  this  group  and  show  that  this  average  can  be  made 
less  than  e.  If  the  average  of  a  set  of  numbers  is  less  than  e  there  must 
exist  at  least  one  in  the  set  which  is  less  than  e.  This  will  establish  the 
desired  result. 


H(X) 


Fig.  9 — The  equivocation  possible  for  a  given  input  entropy  to  a  channel. 


The  capacity  C  of  a  noisy  channel  has  been  defined  as 
C  =  Max  {H{x)  -  Hy(x)) 

where  x  is  the  input  and  y  the  output.  The  maximization  is  over  all  sources 
which  might  be  used  as  input  to  the  channel. 

Let  Sq  be  a  source  which  achieves  the  maximum  capacity  C.  If  this 
maximum  is  not  actually  achieved  by  any  source  let  ^o  be  a  source  which 
approximates  to  giving  the  maximum  rate.  Suppose  6*0  is  used  as  input  to 
the  channel.  We  consider  the  possible  transmitted  and  received  sequences 
of  a  long  duration  T.     The  following  will  be  true: 

1.  The  transmitted  sequences  fall  into  two  classes,  a  high  probability  group 
with  about  2^^^""^  members  and  the  remaining  sequences  of  small  total 
probability. 

2.  Similarly  the  received  sequences  have  a  high  probability  set  of  about 


,TH(y) 


members  and  a  low  probability  set  of  remaining  sequences. 


3.  Each  high  probability  output  could  be  produced  by  about  2 
The  probability  of  all  other  cases  has  a  small  total  probability. 


inputs. 


412 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


All  the  e's  and  6's  implied  by  the  words  ^'small"  and  ''about"  in  these 
statements  approach  zero  as  we  allow  T  to  increase  and  Sq  to  approach  the 
maximizing  source. 

The  situation  is  summarized  in  Fig.  10  where  the  input  sequences  are 
points  on  the  left  and  output  sequences  points  on  the  right.  The  fan  of 
cross  lines  represents  the  range  of  possible  causes  for  a  typical  output. 

Now  suppose  we  have  another  source  producing  information  at  rate  R 
with  R  <  C.  In  the  period  T  this  source  will  have  2^"  high  probability 
outputs.     We  wish  to  associate  these  with  a  selection  of  the  possible  channe 


HIGH   PROBABILITY^ 
MESSAGES 


pHy(x)T 

"reasonable    causes  • 
for     each    e 


2H(y)T 

HIGH   PROBABILITY 
RECEIVED     signals 


•  reasonable  effects  • 
from    each    m 

Fig.  10 — Schematic  representation  of  the  relations  between  inputs  and  outputs  in  a 
channel. 


inputs  in  such  a  way  as  to  get  a  small  frequency  of  errors.  We  will  set  up 
this  association  in  all  possible  ways  (using,  however,  only  the  high  proba- 
bility group  of  inputs  as  determined  by  the  source  5o)  and  average  the  fre- 
quency of  errors  for  this  large  class  of  possible  coding  systems.  This  is  the 
same  as  calculating  the  frequency  of  errors  for  a  random  association  of  the 
messages  and  channel  inputs  of  duration  T.  Suppose  a  particular  output 
yi  is  observed.  What  is  the  probability  of  more  than  one  message  in  the  set 
of  possible  causes  of  yi?  There  are  2^'^  messages  distributed  at  random  in 
2'^"^''^  points.  The  probability  of  a  particular  point  being  a  message  is 
thus 

2T{R-H{x)) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  413 

The  probability  that  none  of  the  points  in  the  fan  is  a  message  (apart  from 
the  actual  originating  message)  is 


Now  R  <  H{x)  -  Hy{x)  so  R  -  H{x)  =  -Hy{x)  -  t]  with  7;  positive- 
Consequently 

P    =    [1    —     2~^^«'^^^~^''l2^^l'^^^ 

approaches  (as  T  ^  oc ) 

Hence  the  probability  of  an  error  approaches  zero  and  the  first  part  of  the 
theorem  is  proved. 

The  second  part  of  the  theorem  is  easily  shown  by  noting  that  we  could 
merely  send  C  bits  per  second  from  the  source,  completely  neglecting  the 
remainder  of  the  information  generated.  At  the  receiver  the  neglected  part 
gives  an  equivocation  H{x)  —  C  and  the  part  transmitted  need  only  add  e. 
This  limit  can  also  be  attained  in  many  other  ways,  as  will  be  shown  when  we 
consider  the  continuous  case. 

The  last  statement  of  the  theorem  is  a  simple  consequence  of  our  definition 
of  C.  Suppose  we  can  encode  a  source  with  R  =  C  -\-  am.  such  a  way  as  to 
obtain  an  equivocation  Hy{x)  =  a  —  e  with  e  positive.  Then  R  =  H{x)  = 
C  -\-  a  and 

H{x)  -  Hy{x)  =  C  +  € 

with  €  positive.  This  contradicts  the  definition  of  C  as  the  maximum  of 
H{x)  -  Hy{x). 

Actually  more  has  been  proved  than  was  stated  in  the  theorem.  If  the 
average  of  a  set  of  numbers  is  within  e  of  their  maximum,  a  fraction  of  at 
most  v^can  be  more  than  \/e  below  the  maximum.  Since  e  is  arbitrarily 
small  we  can  say  that  almost  all  the  systems  are  arbitrarily  close  to  the  ideal. 

14.  Discussion 

The  demonstration  of  theorem  11,  while  not  a  pure  existence  proof,  has 
some  of  the  deficiencies  of  such  proofs.  An  attempt  to  obtain  a  good 
approximation  to  ideal  coding  by  following  the  method  of  the  proof  is  gen- 
erally impractical.  In  fact,  apart  from  some  rather  trivial  cases  and 
certain  limiting  situations,  no  explicit  description  of  a  series  of  approxima- 
tion to  the  ideal  has  been  found.  Probably  this  is  no  accident  but  is  related 
to  the  difficulty  of  giving  an  explicit  construction  for  a  good  approximation 
to  a  random  sequence. 


414  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

An  approximation  to  the  ideal  would  have  the  property  that  if  the  signal 
is  altered  in  a  reasonable  way  by  the  noise,  the  original  can  still  be  recovered. 
In  other  words  the  alteration  will  not  in  general  bring  it  closer  to  another 
reasonable  signal  than  the  original.  This  is  accomplished  at  the  cost  of  a 
certain  amount  of  redundancy  in  the  coding.  The  redundancy  must  be 
introduced  in  the  proper  way  to  combat  the  particular  noise  structure 
involved.  However,  any  redundancy  in  the  source  will  usually  help  if  it  is 
utilized  at  the  receiving  point.  In  particular,  if  the  source  already  has  a 
certain  redundancy  and  no  attempt  is  made  to  eliminate  it  in  matching  to  the 
channel,  this  redundancy  will  help  combat  noise.  For  example,  in  a  noiseless 
telegraph  channel  one  could  save  about  50%  in  time  by  proper  encoding  of 
the  messages.  This  is  not  done  and  most  of  the  redundnacy  of  English 
remains  in  the  channel  symbols.  This  has  the  advantage,  however,  of 
allowing  considerable  noise  in  the  channel.  A  sizable  fraction  of  the  letters 
can  be  received  incorrectly  and  still  reconstructed  by  the  context.  In 
fact  this  is  probably  not  a  bad  approximation  to  the  ideal  in  many  cases, 
since  the  statistical  structure  of  English  is  rather  involved  and  the  reasonable 
English  sequences  are  not  too  far  (in  the  sense  required  for  theorem)  from  a 
random  selection. 

As  in  the  noiseless  case  a  delay  is  generally  required  to  approach  the  ideal 
encoding.  It  now  has  the  additional  function  of  allowing  a  large  sample  of 
noise  to  affect  the  signal  before  any  judgment  is  made  at  the  receiving  point 
as  to  the  original  message.  Increasing  the  sample  size  always  sharpens  the 
possible  statistical  assertions. 

The  content  of  theorem  1 1  and  its  proof  can  be  formulated  in  a  somewhat 
different  way  which  exhibits  the  connection  with  the  noiseless  case  more 
clearly.  Consider  the  possible  signals  of  duration  T  and  suppose  a  subset 
of  them  is  selected  to  be  used.  Let  those  in  the  subset  all  be  used  with  equal 
probabiUty,  and  suppose  the  receiver  is  constructed  to  select,  as  the  original 
signal,  the  most  probable  cause  from  the  subset,  when  a  perturbed  signal 
is  received.  We  define  N{T,  q)  to  be  the  maximum  number  of  signals  we 
can  choose  for  the  subset  such  that  the  probability  of  an  incorrect  inter- 
pretation is  less  than  or  equal  to  q. 

Theorem  12:  Lim  — ^J;— ^   =  C,  where  C  is  the  channel  capacity,  pro- 

T-*ao  1 

vided  that  q  does  not  equal  0  or  1 . 

In  other  words,  no  matter  how  we  set  our  limits  of  reliability,  we  can 
distinguish  reliably  in  time  T  enough  messages  to  correspond  to  about  CT 
bits,  when  T  is  sufficiently  large.  Theorem  12  can  be  compared  with  the 
definition  of  the  capacity  of  a  noiseless  channel  given  in  section  1 . 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  415 

15.  Example  of  a  Discrete  Channel  and  Its  Capacity 

A  simple  example  of  a  discrete  channel  is  indicated  in  Fig.  11.  There 
are  three  possible  symbols.  The  first  is  never  affected  by  noise.  The  second 
and  third  each  have  probability  p  of  coming  through  undisturbed,  and  q 
of  being  changed  into  the  other  of  the  pair.     We  have  (letting  a  =  —  [p  log 


TRANSMITTED 
SYMBOLS 


P 

Fig.  11 — Example  of  a  discrete  channel. 

p  -\-  q  log  q\  and  P  and  Q  be  the  probabiUties  of  using  the  first  or  second 
symbols) 

Hix)  =  -PlogP  -  2(3  log  G 

Hy{x)  =  2Qa 

We  wish  to  choose  P  and  Q  in  such  a  way  as  to  maximize  H{x)  —  Hy(x), 
subject  to  the  constraint  P  -\-  2Q  =  1.     Hence  we  consider 

U  =  -P  log  P  -  2(3  log  Q  -  2Qa  +  X(P  +  2Q) 

dV 


Eliminating  \ 


^^  =   -1  -logP  +  X  =  0 
^_£=   -2  -21og(3-2a+2X  =  0 


log  P  =  \ogQ  +  a 
P  =  Qe'  =  Q^ 


P    = 


i8  +  2         ^       /3  +  2* 
The  channel  capacity  is  then 

C=log-^. 


416  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Note  how  this  checks  the  obvious  values  in  the  cases  p  =  \  and  p  =  \  . 
In  the  first,  jS  =  1  and  C  =  log  3,  which  is  correct  since  the  channel  is  then 
noiseless  with  three  possible  symbols,  li  p  =  ^,  ^  =  2  and  C  =  log  2. 
Here  the  second  and  third  symbols  cannot  be  distinguished  at  all  and  act 
together  like  one  symbol.  The  first  symbol  is  used  with  probability  P  = 
J  and  the  second  and  third  together  with  probabihty  J  .  This  may  be 
distributed  in  any  desired  way  and  still  achieve  the  maximum  capacity. 

For  intermediate  values  of  p  the  channel  capacity  will  lie  between  log 
2  and  log  3.  The  distinction  between  the  second  and  third  symbols  conveys 
some  information  but  not  as  much  as  in  the  noiseless  case.  The  first  symbol 
is  used  somewhat  more  frequently  than  the  other  two  because  of  its  freedom 
from  noise. 

16.  The  Channel  Capacity  in  Certain  Special  Cases 

If  the  noise  affects  successive  channel  symbols  independently  it  can  be 
described  by  a  set  of  transition  probabilities  pij .  This  is  the  probability, 
if  symbol  i  is  sent,  that  j  will  be  received.  The  maximum  channel  rate  is 
then  given  by  the  maximum  of 

2]  Pi  pij  log  2]  Pipij  -   J^  Pi  pij  log  pij 

i,]'  i  i,j 

where  we  vary  the  Pi  subject  to  XPi  =  1.    This  leads  by  the  method  of 
Lagrange  to  the  equations, 

2  Psj  log  ^  p.     =  M  5  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  . 

i 

Multiplying  by  P«  and  summing  on  s  shows  that  /i  =  —  C.     Let  the  inverse 
of  pgj  (if  it  exists)  be  hst  so  that  zl  ^stpsj  =  8tj .     Then: 


Hence; 


or, 


2  ^st  psj  log  psj  —  log  Yl  Pipit  =  —cY^ht. 

s,j  i  « 

2  Pipit  =  exp  [C  Yhst  +  Y  hst  psj  log  psj] 

i  8  8,j 

Pi  =  12  hit  exp  [C  Yjhsf\-Yj  hst  psj  log  psjY 


This  is  the  system  of  equations  for  determining  the  maximizing  values  of 
Pi ,  with  C  to  be  determined  so  that  ^  Pi  =  1.  When  this  is  done  C  will  be 
the  channel  capacity,  and  the  P<  the  proper  probabilities  for  the  channel 
symbols  to  achieve  this  capacity. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION 


417 


If  each  input  symbol  has  the  same  set  of  probabihties  on  the  Hnes  emerging 
from  it,  and  the  same  is  true  of  each  output  symbol,  the  capacity  can  be 
easily  calculated.  Examples  are  shown  in  Fig.  12.  In  such  a  case  Hx{y) 
is  independent  of  the  distribution  of  probabilities  on  the  input  symbols,  and 
is  given  by  —  S  />»  log  />,  where  the  pi  are  the  values  of  the  transition  proba- 
bilities from  any  input  symbol.     The  channel  capacity  is 

Max     [Hiy)     -     H.iy)] 

=  MaxZ?(y)  +  S/>aog/>i. 

The  maximum  of  H{y)  is  clearly  log  m  where  m  is  the  number  of  output 


^^ 

jy^^.--— ' 

? 

^^^x^ 

l/6\ 

ji^^^I^\/^->^ 

1/6/ 

'%^^\^;^ 

^ 

\,/3 

,/3/0><\ 

^^i/^^^ 

^^ 

J^^    ^^"^ 

a  b  c 

Fig.  12 — Examples  of  discrete  channels  with  the  same  transition  probabilities  for  each 
input  and  for  each  output. 

symbols,  since  it  is  possible  to  make  them  all  equally  probable  by  making 
the  input  symbols  equally  probable.     The  channel  capacity  is  therefore 

C  =  log  w  +  2  piXogpi. 

In  Fig.  12a  it  would  be 

C  =  log  4  -  log  2  =  log  2. 

This  could  be  achieved  by  using  only  the  1st  and  3d  symbols.     In  Fig.  12b 
C  =  log  4  -  S  log  3  -  i  log  6 
=  log  4  -  log  3  -  I  log  2 
=  log4  2^ 
In  Fig.  12c  we  have 

C  =  log  3  -  i  log  2  -  i  log  3  -  J  log  6 
3 


=  log 


2*3^6' 


418  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Suppose  the  symbols  fall  into  several  groups  such  that  the  noise  never 
causes  a  symbol  in  one  group  to  be  mistaken  for  a  symbol  in  another  group. 
Let  the  capacity  for  the  wth  group  be  Cn  when  we  use  only  the  symbols 
in  this  group.  Then  it  is  easily  shown  that,  for  best  use  of  the  entire  set, 
the  total  probability  Pn  of  all  symbols  in  the  wth  group  should  be 

P       = 

Within  a  group  the  probability  is  distributed  just  as  it  would  be  if  these 
were  the  only  symbols  being  used.     The  channel  capacity  is 

C  =  log22''\ 
17.  An  Example  of  Efficient  Coding 

The  following  example,  although  somewhat  unrealistic,  is  a  case  in  which 
exact  matching  to  a  noisy  channel  is  possible.  There  are  two  channel 
symbols,  0  and  1,  and  the  noise  affects  them  in  blocks  of  seven  symbols.  A 
block  of  seven  is  either  transmitted  without  error,  or  exactly  one  symbol  of 
the  seven  is  incorrect.    These  eight  possibilities  are  equally  likely.    We  have 

C  =  Max  [H(y)  -  H.{y)] 

=  i[7  +  flog|] 

=  y  bits/symbol . 

An  efficient  code,  allowing  complete  correction  of  errors  and  transmitting  at 
the  rate  C,  is  the  following  (found  by  a  method  due  to  R.  Hamming) : 

Let  a  block  of  seven  symbols  be  Xi,  X^,  . . .  X'l.  Of  these  X's,  X^,  Xq  and 
X7  are  message  symbols  and  chosen  arbitrarily  by  the  source.  The  other 
three  are  redundant  and  calculated  as  follows : 

X4  is  chosen  to  make   a  =  X4  -\-  X^  -\-  Xq  -\-  X7  even 

X2  "  "  "  "         ^   =    X2  +   X3  +   Xg  +   X,       - 

Xi  "         "       "       ''      y  =  Xi  +  X,  +  X5  +  X:     " 

When  a  block  of  seven  is  received  a,  ^  and  7  are  calculated  and  if  even  called 
zero,  if  odd  called  one.  The  binary  number  a  ^  y  then  gives  the  subscript 
of  the  Xi  that  is  incorrect  (if  0  there  was  no  error). 

APPENDIX  1 

The  Growth  of  the  Number  of  Blocks  of  Symbols  With  A 
Finite  State  Condition 

Let  Ni(L)  be  the  number  of  blocks  of  symbols  of  length  L  ending  in  state 
/.     Then  we  have 

NAP  =  Z  NU  -  b\^) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  m 

where  bij ,  ba  ,  .  .  .  6Ty  are  the  length  of  the  symbols  which  may  be  chosen 
in  state  /  and  lead  to  state  j.  These  are  linear  difference  equations  and  the 
behavior  as  Z  -^  x  must  be  of  the  type 

Substituting  in  the  difference  equation 

i,S 

or 

Aj  =  ZA,W->''<i' 

is 

E  (Z  Ty-"'*'  -  ««)^.-  =  0. 

i  S 

For  this  to  be  possible  the  determinant 

s 

must  vanish  and  this  determines  W,  which  is,  of  course,  the  largest  real  root 
oiD  =  0. 

The  quantity  C  is  then  given  by 

C  =  Lim     ^       ' =  log  \] 

L-*oc  L 

and  we  also  note  that  the  same  growth  properties  result  if  we  require  that  all 
blocks  start  in  the  same  (arbitrarily  chosen)  state. 

APPENDIX  2 

Derivation  oy  H  =  —Z  pi  log  pi 

Let  //(-,-,•••,-]=  A{ii).     From  condition  (3)  we  can  decompose 

a  choice  from  s'"  equally  likely  possibilities  into  a  series  of  m  choices  each 
from  5  equally  likely  possibilities  and  obtain 

A (s^)  =  m  A{s) 

Similarly 

A{0  =  nA{t) 

We  can  choose  n  arbitrarily  large  and  find  an  m  to  satisfy 

5"  <  /"  <  /"-^'^ 


420 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Thus,  taking  logarithms  and  dividing  by  n  log  5, 


m  ^  log  t  ^  m       \ 

n  ~  log  s  ~  n        n 


or 


logj 
log  5 


<  € 


where  €  is  arbitrarily  small. 

Now  from  the  monotonia  property  of  A  (n) 

mAis)  <  nA{t)  <{m^  \)  A{s) 
Hence,  dividing  by  nA{s), 

^        A{t) 


^< 


A{t)  ^m^\ 
A{s)  ~  n       n 


or 


<   € 


A{t) 


A{s) 


logj 

log  5 


<   26 


^W  =  -iiTlog; 


where  K  must  be  positive  to  satisfy  (2) . 

Now  suppose  we  have  a  choice  from  n  possibilities  with  commeasurable  prob- 

abihties  pi  =  — -^  where  the  Ui  are  integers.    We  can  break  down  a  choice 

Zifli 

from  Swt  possibilities  into  a  choice  from  n  possibilities  with  probabilities 
pi. . .  Pn  and  then,  if  the  ith  was  chosen,  a  choice  from  tii  with  equal  prob- 
abilities. Using  condition  3  again,  we  equate  the  total  choice  from  2wi 
as  computed  by  two  methods 


K  log  Swi  =  H(pi , . . . ,  Pn)  +  K^  pi  log  m 


Hence 


H  ==  K\X  pilogXm-  i:  pi  log  n^] 

=  -K^PiXog^  =  -i^S^log^-. 

If  the  pi  are  incommeasurable,  they  may  be  approximated  by  rationals  and 
the  same  expression  must  hold  by  our  continuity  assumption.  Thus  the 
expression  holds  in  general.  The  choice  of  coefficient  iiT  is  a  matter  of  con- 
venience and  amounts  to  the  choice  of  a  unit  of  measure. 

APPENDIX  3 

Theorems  on  Ergodic  Sources 

If  it  is  possible  to  go  from  any  state  with  i^  >  0  to  any  other  along  a  path 
of  probability  />  >  0,  the  system  is  ergodic  and  the  strong  law  of  large  num- 
bers can  be  applied.    Thus  the  number  of  times  a  given  path  pa  in  the  net- 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  421 

work  is  traversed  in  a  long  sequence  of  length  N  is  about  proportional  to  the 
probability  of  being  at  i  and  then  choosing  this  path,  PipijN.  If  N  is  large 
enough  the  probability  of  percentage  error  ±  5  in  this  is  less  than  €  so  that 
for  all  but  a  set  of  small  probability  the  actual  numbers  lie  within  the  limits 

{PiPij  ±  b)N 

Hence  nearly  all  sequences  have  a  probability  p  given  by 

p  =  Tip\Y'''^'''' 

loff  P 
and  — —  is  limited  by 

i^  =  2(P,^y±6)log^•y 


logp 


N 


-  ZPiPij  log  Pa 


<V- 


This  proves  theorem  3. 

Theorem  4  follows  immediately  from  this  on  calculating  upper  and  lower 
bounds  for  n{q)  based  on  the  possible  range  of  values  of  p  in  Theorem  3. 

In  the  mixed  (not  ergodic)  case  if 

L  =  i:piLi 
and  the  entropies  of  the  components  are  Hi  >  H2  ^  . .  .  >  Hnwe  have  the 
Theorem:  Lim  -^^r—  =  <piq)  is  a  decreasing  step  function, 

N->oo  N 

8  —  1  8 

(p{q)  =  Hs     in  the  interval     ^  oli  <  q  <^  Ui. 

1  1 

To  prove  theorems  5  and  6  first  note  that  Fn  is  monotonic  decreasing  be- 
cause increasing  N  adds  a  subscript  to  a  conditional  entropy.  A  simple 
substitution  for  pBi  (Sj)  in  the  definition  of  Fn  shows  that 

Fn  =  N  Gn  -  {N  -  1)  Gs-i 

and  summing  this  for  all  N  gives  On  =  -r=  S  Fiv .     Hence  On  ^  Fs  and  Gx 

monotonic  decreasing.     Also  they  must  approach  the  same  limit.     By  using 
theorem  3  we  see  that  Lim  Gy  =  H. 

JV-*oo 

APPENDIX  4 

Maximizing  the  Rate  for  a  System  of  Constraints 

Suppose  we  have  a  set  of  constraints  on  sequences  of  symbols  that  is  of 
the  finite  state  type  and  can  be  represented  therefore  by  a  linear  graph. 


422  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Let  (["j  be  the  lengths  of  the  various  symbols  that  can  occur  in  passing  from 
state  i  to  state  j.  What  distribution  of  probabilities  Pi  for  the  different 
states  and  p^ij  for  choosing  symbol  s  in  state  i  and  going  to  state ^  maximizes 
the  rate  of  generating  information  under  these  constraints?  The  constraints 
define  a  discrete  channel  and  the  maximum  rate  must  be  less  than  or  equal 
to  the  capacity  C  of  this  channel,  since  if  all  blocks  of  large  length  were 
equally  likely,  this  rate  would  result,  and  if  possible  this  would  be  best.  We 
will  show  that  this  rate  can  be  achieved  by  proper  choice  of  the  Pi  and  p%  . 
The  rate  in  question  is 

:^P,i)P^t^         M' 

Let  (ij  =  zl  ^i]-  •    Evidently  for  a  maximum  p\]-   =  k  exp  (^i].     The  con- 

s  

straints  on  maximization  are  2Pi  =   \,zli  Pa  =   ^,  ^  Piipij  —  8 a)  =  0. 
Hence  we  maximize 

2/X  t  Pij  iij  i 

a^.  -  ~ Mi +  X  +  M.-  +  ViPi  -  0. 


Solving  for  pij 


Since 


Pij  =  AiBjD  ^'\ 
BjD-Ui 


pij 


Zb.d-^^' 


The  correct  value  of  D  is  the  capacity  C  and  the  Bj  are  solutions  of 

Bi  =  X  BjC~^'^ 

for  then 

Bj      (,. 
^''       Bi 

2Pi^C-^''  =  P, 
or 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  423 

So  that  if  \i  satisfy 

P.  =  Bai 

Both  of  the  sets  of  equations  for  ^t  and  7^  can  be  satisfied  since  C  is  such  that 


I  C-^''  -  8ij  I  =  0 


In  this  case  the  rate  is 


2P,^ilog|^C-^- 
~  2Pi  Pi,-  4- 

^Pipij  log  ^ 

=  C  -  -' 

^Pi  Pij  tij 

but 

^PiPiMog  B,  -  log  Bd  =  E  Pj  log  ^i  -  2P,  log  Bi  =  {) 

i 

Hence  the  rate  is  C  and  as  this  could  never  be  exceeded  this  is  the  maximum, 
justifying  the  assumed  solution. 

{To  he  continued)  * 


An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect 
on  the  Trunk  Plant 

By  CHARLES  CLOS 

Introduction 

Tn\URING  the  war  it  became  necessary  for  the  Bell  System  Companies 
^^  to  lower  many  service  standards.  Among  these  was  the  standard  for 
the  provision  of  trunks  for  handling  subscriber-dialed  calls.  In  the  interest 
of  economy  the  number  of  trunks  for  a  given  volume  of  traffic  was  lowered. 
It  is  evident  that  for  any  given  case  there  is  a  lower  limit  to  the  number 
of  trunks  that  should  be  provided  for  handling  subscriber-dialed  calls. 
Below  this  limit  congestion  of  calls  gets  beyond  control.  The  control  of 
congestion  is  important.  In  the  case  of  operator-handled  calls  it  is  possible 
to  control  congestion  by  filing  tickets  and  placing  calls  in  an  orderly  fashion. 
In  the  case  of  subscriber-dialed  calls  the  subscriber  may  with  impunity 
make  many,  indeed  very  many,  successive  dialing  attempts  to  complete  a 
call  that  is  blocked  due  to  a  shortage  of  trunks.  If,  in  a  particular  office 
enough  subscribers  do  this  simultaneously,  a  sender  shortage  may  develop 
with  its  resulting  reaction  on  the  whole  office, 

From  the  foregoing  it  is  evident  that  the  standard  of  service  for  providing 
trunks  in  trunk  groups  handling  subscriber-dialed  calls  is  of  importance. 
During  the  war  years,  the  New  York  Telephone  Company  undertook  a 
study  to  determine  the  limits  below  which  it  would  be  undesirable  to  degrade 
the  service.  This  study  was  designed  to  test  the  reasonableness  of  the 
reduction  in  the  inter-office  trunk  standard  from  the  pre-war  basis  of  pro- 
viding enough  trunks  to  delay  only  one  out  of  a  hundred  calls  in  the  busy 
hour  to  a  wartime  basis  of  providing  enough  trunks  to  delay  two  calls  in 
every  hundred  during  the  busy  hour.  The  conclusion  from  this  study  was 
that  it  was  safe  to  use  wartime  standards. 

The  study  reported  herein  is  an  analysis  of  the  effect  of  repeated  attempts 
when  subscriber-dialed  calls  are  blocked  due  to  trunk  shortages.  The  data 
upon  which  the  results  are  based  indicate  that  dial  subscribers  after  en- 
countering a  busy  condition  make  new  attempts  sooner  and  much  more 
often  than  has  been  generally  believed.  The  results  indicate  that  one  can 
reconstruct  what  happens  when  trunk  groups  carrying  subscriber-dialed 
calls  encounter  serious  overloads  and  that  trunk  capacity  tables  for  such 
situations  can  be  developed. 

The  study  is  based  on  extensive  service  observations  taken  at  the  New 

424 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS  425 

•  York  City  Service  Observing  Bureaus  during  the  winter  of  1943-44.  These 
observations  dealt  with  the  behavior  of  subscribers  who  encounter  a  busy 
on  a  dialed  call.  This  behavior  is  assumed  to  apply  to  the  situation  when 
subscribers  encounter  an  all-trunks-busy  condition. 

Inadequacy  of  the  Poisson  and  Erlang  B  Formulae  To  Express 
«       THE  Situation  wtien  Shortages  Occur  in  Trunk  Groups 
Handling  Subscriber  Dialed  Calls 

In  connection  with  the  provision  of  trunks  in  the  exchange  plant,  two  sets 
of  trunk-call-carrying-capacity  tables  are  currently  in  use.  One  set  of  these 
tables  is  computed  from  the  Poisson  Formula  and  the  other  from  the  Erlang 
B  Formula.  The  Poisson  tables  are  used  for  trunk  groups  carrying  non- 
alternate  route  traffic,  whereas  the  Erlang  B  tables  are  used  for  trunk 
groups  carrying  traffic  subject  to  alternate  routing. 

The  assumption  underlying  the  Poisson  Formula,  when  a  shortage  of 
trunks  occurs,  is  that  of  a  partial  delay.  A  call  which  encounters  all  trunks 
busy  waits  but  not  longer  than  a  holding  time  mterval  for  a  trunk  to  become 
available. 

The  corresponding  assumption  underlying  the  Erlang  B  Formula  is  that  of 
no  delay.  A  call  which  encounters  all  trunks  busy  is  cleared  out.  The  call 
may  be  abandoned  by  the  subscriber  or  advanced  to  an  alternate  route. 

With  respect  to  non-alternate  route  trunk  groups  handling  subscriber 
dialed  calls  neither  of  the  above  two  assumptions  is  realized  in  practice. 
When  all  trunks  are  busy,  the  dial  equipment  is  arranged  to  return  an  all- 
trunks-busy  signal  to  the  subscriber  rather  than  hold  the  call  pending  the 
outcome  of  a  subsequent  test  for  an  idle  trunk.  The  subscriber  upon 
encountering  an  all-trunks-busy  signal  does  not  necessarily  abandon  the  call. 
In  most  cases  he  redials  the  call. 

The  degree  by  which  the  assumptions  are  not  realized  depends  upon  the 
relative  number  of  trunks  that  are  provided  for  a  given  volume  of  traffic. 
For  instance  if,  during  an  hour,  150  calls  having  an  average  holding  time  of 
100  seconds  are  submitted  to  ten  trunks  and  an  equivalent  volume  of  traffic 
is  submitted  to  five  trunks,  the  following  theoretical  results  follow  from  the 
Poisson  and  Erlang  B  Formulae: — 


Table  I 
Theoretical  Results  from  Poisson  and  Erlang  B  Formulae 

150  Calls  of  100  Seconds  Average 

Holding  Time  Submitted 

during  an  hour  to 

Number  of  Calls  that  Are 

Delayed  on  the  Basis  of 

the  Poisson  Formula 

Number  of  Calls  that  Are 
Cleared  Out  on  the  Basis 
of  the  Erlang  B  Formula 

10  trunks 
5  trunks 

1.6 

60.6 

1.0 
32.0 

426  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  values  in  Table  I  indicate  that,  when  a  liberal  number  of  trunks,  i.e., 
ten  trunks,  is  provided,  the  numerical  difiference  between  the  results  of  the 
two  formulae  is  small  and  the  results  of  either  formula  can  be  used  as  an 
approximation  of  the  number  of  calls  affected  by  an  all-tru,iks-busy  con- 
dition. There  are  undoubtedly  repetitious  attempts,  but  because  the 
number  is  small  their  effect  can  be  neglected. 

When,  however,  there  is  a  serious  shortage  of  trunks,  as  when  only  fiV'e 
trunks  are  provided,  the  numerical  difference  between  the  theoretical  results 
of  the  two  formulae  is  large.  In  addition,  the  repetitious  attempts  will  be 
too  numerous  to  ignore.  Some  of  the  repetitious  attempts  will  encounter 
all  trunks  busy  again  and  again.  Other  repetitious  attempts  will  seize  idle 
trunks  thereby  causing  new  calls  to  encounter  all  trunks  busy.  The  effect  is 
cumulative.  Neither  the  Poisson  nor  the  Erlang  B  Formula  indicates  to 
what  extent  the  repetitious  attempts  take  place  nor  their  effect.  A  pre- 
liminary glimpse  at  the  results  of  this  study  indicates  that  150  calls  of  100 
seconds  average  holding  time  when  submitted  during  an  hour  to  five  trunks 
become  inflated  by  99  repetitious  attempts  and  appear  as  249  calls  being 
submitted  to  the  trunks.  Of  these  249  calls,  108  encounter  all  trunks  busy. 
Of  the  108  calls,  99  become  the  aforementioned  repetitious  attempts  and 
nine  are  abandoned.  It  is  evident  that  neither  formula  presents  this 
picture.  For  studies  considering  the  effect  of  overloads  due  to  trunk  short- 
ages, this  is  the  type  of  information  needed.  A  new  approach  is  required  to 
obtain  such  data.  To  do  this,  it  is  desirable  to  examine  the  habits  of  dial 
subscribers  who  have  encountered  busies. 

The  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  upon  Encountering  a  Busy 

In  order  to  investigate  the  grade  of  service  given  to  dial  subscribers  when 
trunk  shortages  occur  it  is  desirable  to  know  something  about  their  behavior 
when  they  encounter  all-trunks-busy  signals.  Specifically  there  are  four 
items  that  need  investigation;  these  are: — 

1.  How  soon  after  encountering  an  all-trunks-busy  signal  does  the  sub- 

scriber redial  his  call? 

2.  What  percentage  of  the  subscribers  make  subsequent  attempts? 

3.  How  do  the  time  intervals  between  successive  subsequent  attempts 

compare  with  each  other;  that  is,  are  they  about  the  same  or  do  they 
differ  widely? 

4.  What  differences,  if  any,  exist  between  classes  of  subscribers? 

The  first  three  items  are  answered  from  the  results  of  service  observations. 
The  fourth  item  is  answered  indirectly. 

The  service  observations  consisted  of  1,107  cases  where  line  busies  were 
observed  (except  for  35  cases  of  all-trunks-busy  signals).     Observations  on 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS  427 

line  busies  were  used  instead  of  all-trunks-busy  signals  because  it  would  have 
taken  too  long  to  obtain  sufficient  observations,  because  it  is  undesirable  to 
artificially  degrade  the  service  in  order  to  obtain  sufficient  observations  and 
because  it  is  assumed  that  the  average  subscriber  does  not  recognize  the 
difference  between  a  busy  and  overflow  signal.  It  is  considered  that  the 
data,  while  collected  for  busy  signals,  accurately  represent  the  situation 
with  regard  to  overflow  signals. 

Beginning  on  December  22,  1943  and  ending  on  February  29,  1944,  a 
special  record  of  1,107  subscriber-dialed  calls,  where  line  busies  were  ob- 
served, was  taken  at  the  three  New  York  City  service  observation  bureaus. 
Up  to  a  point,  regular  service  observation  practices  were  followed  and  the 
regular  service  observing  data  concerning  the  calls  were  entered  on  the 
service-observang  records.  The  data  concerning  the  line  busies  were  entered 
on  a  special  form.  This  form  is  shown  below.  Instructions  for  the  observers 
accompanied  these  forms;  these  instructions  follow  the  form. 

Form  S.O.  171 

Special  Records — Busy  Calls 

Calling  No Date 

Enter  in  space  under  attempt  number,  the  cumulative  seconds  from  the  start  of  the 
original  attempt  to  the  start  of  the  attempt  indicated.  In  addition  for  the  last  attempt 
show  disposition. 


A 

ttempt 

Number 

.. 

2 

^ 

* 

5 

6    j      7 

8 

9 

10 

1    i    i    1    1    i 

11 

12 

13 

14     1 

15 

16         17 

18 

19 

20 

i     -     1         !         1        .i         1         i         i 

1 

Disposition  of  the  call 

Data  for  attempts  over  20  should  be  entered  on  the  reverse  side. 

Special  service  observing  form  used  to  collect  data  concerning  the  dialing  behavior  of 
subscribers  upon  encountering  a  busy. 

Instructions  A  pplying  to  the  Use  of  Form  S.O.  171 

These  instructions  apply  to  the  use  of  Form  S.O.  171  which  has  been  de- 
veloped in  connection  with  a  study  of  the  behavior  of  customers  upon  en- 
countering a  busy  signal. 

This  study  will  not  include  observations  originating  on  P.B.X.  trunks  or 
on  coin  lines.  On  all  other  calls  encountering  a  busy  signal  or  an  overflow 
signal  the  observer  will  hold  the  line  in  the  observing  position  until  one  of 
the  following  conditions  occurs: 

(1)  Call  is  disposed  of  by  reaching  the  desired  number. — Code  OK 


428  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

(2)  10  minutes  have  elapsed  since  the  last  attempt  for  the  desired  num- 

ber.—Code  AB 

(3)  Call  is  disposed  of  by  being  given  to  the  operator. — Code  PR 

(4)  Call  is  disposed  of  by  receiving  a  ''Don't  answer"  on  an  attempt  to 

reach  the  desired  number — Code  DA 

AH  attempts  made  during  the  period  that  an  observation  is  ordinarily 
held  will  be  entered  on  the  service  observing  detail  sheets  in  the  regular  way. 
In  addition,  these  entries  and  entries  showing  any  other  attemps  to  reach  the 
desired  number  together  with  the  proper  code  listed  above  to  show  the  final 
disposition  of  the  call  will  be  recorded  on  Form  S.O.  171. 

In  order  to  minimize  the  number  of  cases  not  completed  at  the  end  of  an 
observer's  trick,  no  cases  will  be  recorded  on  the  special  record  on  which  the 
original  busy  signal  is  received  after  J  hour  prior  to  the  finish  of  any  trick. 

From  the  instructions  it  may  be  noted  that  observations  originating  on 
P.B.X.  trunks  or  on  coin  lines  were  not  included.  The  reason  for  this  is, 
when  a  busy  is  observed  on  a  call  originating  on  a  P.B.X.  trunk  the  subse- 
quent attempt  might  be  made  on  one  of  the  other  P.B.X.  trunks,  thus  the 
subsequent  attempt  would  be  missed.  Also,  at  a  P.B.X.  two  extensions 
may  place  calls,  within  a  few  seconds  of  each  other,  to  the  same  busy  line. 
The  service  observations  on  any  one  trunk  might  therefore  be  a  mixture  of 
attempts  involving  two  or  more  calls.  When  a  busy  is  observed  on  a  call 
made  from  a  coin  line,  the  calling  party  will  in  many  instances  vacate  the 
coin  box  in  favor  of  someone  else,  and  the  subsequent  attempt  may  then 
be  made  from  another  coin  line.  For  these  reasons  the  observations  were 
restricted  to  business  and  residential  individual  lines  and  to  two-party  lines 
(12  observations  were  on  two-party  lines). 

It  may  also  be  noted  that  the  observers  were  instructed  to  hold  the  line  in 
the  observing  position  until  ten  minutes  have  elapsed  since  the  last  attempt 
for  the  desired  number.  This  was  a  departure  from  regular  service  observing 
practices  when  a  line  is  held  until  1  minute  has  elapsed. 

Table  II  is  a  tabulation  of  the  data  observed  at  the  Manhattan  Service 
Observing  Bureau  on  Manhattan  dial  subscriber  lines.  The  observations 
are  arranged  in  the  order  of  increasing  magnitude  of  the  time  inter\^als 
between  the  start  of  the  first  attempt  and  the  start  of  the  second  attempt. 
Of  interest  is  observation  number  197  where  a  subscriber  made  25  attempts 
in  about  an  hour. 

Data  similar  to  that  observed  on  Manhattan  dial  subscriber  lines  were 
likewise  observed  on  Bronx- Westchester  and  on  Brooklyn-Queens  dial 
subscriber  lines. 

Figure  1(a)  shows  graphically  the  data  listed  in  Table  II.  This  graph 
shows,  by  dots,  the  cumulative  percentage  of  the  451  Manhattan  observa- 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


429 


Table  II 
Results  of  Observations  on  451  Dial  Subscribers  in  Manhattan 
Seconds  elapsing  between  start  of  previous  attempt  and  start  of  attempt  listed  below 


Obser- 
vation 

Attempt  No. 

Total 
Seconds 

Disposition 
of  the  Call 

No. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 
11 

6 

20 

7 

8 

9 

10 

1 

0 

13 

24 

13 

81 

O.K. 

2 

0* 

16* 

10* 

26 

AB. 

3 

0 

16 

48 

54 

82 

108 

308 

O.K. 

4 

0 

18 

18 

D.A. 

5 

0 

19 

19 

PR. 

6 

0 

19 

19 

O.K. 

7 

0* 

20 

20 

O.K. 

8 

0 

20 

20 

O.K. 

9 

0 

20 

64 

189 

273 

PR. 

10 

0 

21 

21 

AB. 

11 

0* 

21 

21 

O.K. 

12 

0 

21 

21 

PR. 

13 

0 

21 

208 

229 

O.K. 

14 

0 

22 

30 

28 

80 

O.K. 

15 

0 

22 

22 

44 

O.K. 

16 

0 

22 

26 

189 

18 

25 

280 

PR. 

17 

0 

23 

23 

O.K. 

18 

0* 

25 

25 

O.K. 

19 

0 

25 

28 

33 

86 

O.K. 

20 

0 

25 

341 

44 

410 

AB. 

21 

0 

25 

25 

AB. 

22 

0 

25 

28 

22 

69 

63 

82 

271 

560 

AB. 

23 

0 

26 

188 

214 

O.K. 

24 

0 

27 

35 

35 

29 

38 

36 

42 

43 

53 

338 

O.K. 

25 

0 

27 

27 

AB. 

26 

0 

27 

27 

PR. 

27 

0 

28 

28 

O.K. 

28 

0 

28 

28 

AB. 

29 

0 

29 

no 

22 

161 

PR. 

30 

0 

30 

30 

AB. 

31 

0 
51 

30 

31 

23 

20 

20 

86 

20 

54 

26 

361 

AB. 

32 

0 

30 

440 

470 

O.K. 

33 

0 

30 

30 

AB. 

34 

0 

31 

52 

31 

591 

705 

O.K. 

35 

0 

31 

45 

76 

AB. 

36 

0* 

31 

31 

O.K. 

37 

0 

31 

105 

66 

202 

O.K. 

38 

0 

31 

31 

O.K. 

39 

0 

31 

98 

129 

O.K. 

40 

0 

32 

32 

D.A. 

41 

0 

32 

32 

AB. 

42 

0 

32 

32 

64 

O.K. 

43 

0 

32 

32 

O.K. 

44 

0 

33* 

33 

AB. 

45 

0 

33 

35 

41 

43 

57 

209 

O.K. 

46 

0 

35 

35 

O.K. 

47 

0 

35 

358 

393 

O.K. 

48 

0 

36 

88 

124 

O.K. 

49 

0 

37 

53 

40 

130 

O.K. 

50 

0 

39 

39 

O.K. 

51 

0 

39 

39 

O.K. 

*Overflow  signal. 


430 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Table  II 

{Cont'd) 

Obser- 
vation 

Attempt  No. 

Total 
Seconds 

Disposition 
of  the  Call 

No. 

V. 
0 

2 

3 

4 

574 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

52 

40 

20 

634 

O.K. 

53 

0 

40* 

16 

200 

432 

688 

O.K. 

54 

0 

40 

409 

449 

O.K. 

55 

0 

40 

40 

O.K. 

56 

0 

41 

45 

55 

52 

27 

25 

245 

AB. 

57 

0 

41 

45 

84 

170 

O.K. 

58 

0 

42 

122 

68 

232 

AB. 

59 

0 

43 

40 

52 

38 

259 

432 

AB. 

60 

0 

44 

44 

O.K. 

61 

0 

46 

46 

O.K. 

62 

0 

47 

32 

47 

34 

40 

69 

269 

O.K. 

63 

0 

47 

47 

O.K. 

64 

0 

47 

179 

251 

477 

O.K. 

65 

0 

48 

64 

112 

AB. 

66 

0 

49 

49 

AB. 

67 

0 

49 

51 

57 

62 

71 

60 

350 

O.K. 

68 

0 

49 

96 

191 

336 

O.K. 

69 

0 

50 

50 

O.K. 

70 

0 

50 

50 

O.K. 

71 

0 

50 

85 

151 

286 

O.K. 

72 

0 

50 

50 

AB. 

73 

0 

50 

50 

AB. 

74 

0 

51 

51 

O.K. 

75 

0 

51 

51 

AB. 

76 

0 

52 

52 

O.K. 

77 

0 

52 

85 

209 

346 

O.K. 

78 

0 

53 

195 

248 

O.K. 

79 

0 

53 

53 

AB. 

80 

0 

53 

53 

O.K. 

81 

0 

55 

43 

98 

AB. 

82 

0 

55 

43 

27 

170* 

295 

AB. 

83 

0 

56 

20 

61 

36 

103 

• 

276 

AB. 

84 

0 

56 

117 

57 

230 

O.K. 

85 

0 

56 

56 

O.K. 

86 

0 

56 

84 

140 

O.K. 

87 

0 

57 

74 

81 

212 

O.K. 

88 

0 

58 

58 

O.K. 

89 

0 

58 

139 

84 

163 

62 

127 

633 

O.K. 

90 

0 

60 

60 

O.K. 

91 

0 

60 

139 

199 

O.K. 

92 

0 

60 

60 

O.K. 

93 

0 

60 

60 

AB. 

94 

0 

61 

^ 

61 

O.K. 

95 

0 

61 

61 

AB. 

96 

0 

63 

' 

63 

AB. 

97 

0 

63 

31 

95 

28 

20 

237 

AB. 

98 

0 

64 

126 

470 

85 

167 

912 

O.K. 

99 

0 

64 

61 

67 

84 

67 

343 

O.K. 

100 

0 

64 

45 

63 

63 

161 

396 

O.K. 

101 

0 

65 

482 

547 

O.K. 

102 

0 

66 

173 

172 

411 

O.K. 

103 

0 

66t 

66 

72 

204 

O.K. 

104 

0 

66 

66 

AB. 

•Overflow  signal. 

t  Don't  answer. 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


431 


Table  II 

{Cont'd) 

Obser- 
vation 

Attempt  No. 

Total 
Seconds 

Disposition 
of  the  Call 

No. 

1 

2 

68 

3 

66 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

105 

0 

134 

O.K. 

106 

0 

68 

330 

380 

778 

O.K. 

107 

0 

69 

69 

AB. 

108 

0 

70 

70 

O.K. 

109 

0 

71 

71 

AB. 

110 

0 

71 

95 

166 

O.K. 

111 

0 

72 

112 

184 

AB. 

112 

0 

72 

72 

O.K. 

113 

0 

74 

74 

O.K. 

114 

0 

74 

184 

93 

351 

AB. 

115 

0 

75 

75 

O.K. 

116 

0 

75 

75 

O.K. 

117 

0 

75 

67 

203 

345 

O.K. 

118 

0 

76 

76 

O.K. 

119 

0 

76 

76 

AB. 

120 

0* 

77 

77 

O.K. 

121 

0 

78 

78 

O.K. 

122 

0 

78 

78 

O.K. 

123 

0 

78 

253 

107 

38 

476 

AB. 

124 

0 

79 

53 

132 

O.K. 

125 

0 

80 

80 

O.K. 

126 

0 

80 

50 

130 

O.K. 

127 

0 

80 

80 

AB. 

128 

0 

80 

117 

197 

O.K. 

129 

0 

81 

81 

AB. 

130 

0 

81 

81 

O.K. 

131 

0 

83 

83 

O.K. 

^  132 

0 

84 

84 

O.K. 

133 

0 

85 

85 

O.K. 

134 

0 

85 

33 

294 

115 

527 

O.K. 

135 

0 

88 

88 

AB. 

136 

0 

88 

88 

O.K. 

137 

0* 

89 

89 

O.K. 

138 

0 

90 

50 

120 

260 

AB. 

139' 

0 

90 

90 

O.K. 

140 

0 

90 

90 

AB. 

141 

0 

90 

51 

39 

46 

226 

AB. 

142 

0 

91 

78 

169 

O.K. 

143 

0 

91 

91 

O.K. 

144 

0 

91* 

48 

139 

O.K. 

145 

0 

91 

116 

207 

O.K. 

146 

0* 

91 

91 

O.K. 

147 

0* 

92 

92 

O.K. 

148 

0* 

92 

92 

O.K. 

149 

0 

93 

93 

AB. 

150 

0 

93 

34 

228 

117 

472 

O.K. 

151 

0 

94 

94 

75 

91 

354 

AB. 

152 

0 

95 

95 

AB. 

153 

0 

95 

95 

O.K. 

154 

0 

97 

86 

175 

358 

O.K. 

155 

0 

97 

143 

240 

O.K. 

156 

0 

100 

100 

O.K. 

157 

0 

100 

100 

O.K. 

158 

0 

100 

100 

AB. 

159 

0 

100 

100 

O.K. 

160 

0 

102 

115 

198 

415 

O.K. 

"Overflow  signal. 


432 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Table  II  {Cont'd) 


Obser- 
vation 

Attempt  No. 

Total 
Seconds 

Disposition 
of  the  Call 

No. 

1 

2 

3 

4     S 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

161 

0 

102 

80 

96 

152 

430 

O.K. 

162 

0 

103 

103 

O.K. 

163 

0 

104 

17 

121 

O.K. 

164 

0 

105 

105 

O.K. 

165 

0 

105 

105 

O.K. 

166 

0 

106 

340 

446 

O.K. 

167 

0 

108 

98 

140 

346 

O.K. 

168 

0 

111 

111 

O.K. 

169 

0 

111 

111 

AB. 

170 

0 

111 

94 

125 

330 

O.K. 

171 

0 

113 

113 

O.K. 

172 

0 

114 

114 

O.K. 

173 

0 

116 

116 

O.K. 

174 

0 

116 

116 

O.K. 

175 

0 

117 

117 

O.K. 

176 

0 

120 

120 

O.K. 

177 

0 

122 

122 

O.K. 

178 

0 

124 

131 

209 

464 

O.K. 

179 

0 

124 

124 

O.K. 

180 

0 

125 

354 

479 

O.K. 

181 

0 

130 

130 

O.K. 

182 

0 

130 

130 

O.K. 

183 

0 

130 

125 

255 

O.K. 

184 

0 

130 

56 

101 

287 

O.K. 

185 

0 

131 

309 

440 

O.K. 

186 

0 

134 

134 

O.K. 

187 

0 

137 

147 

134 

146 

564 

O.K. 

188 

0 

139 

125 

264 

AB. 

189 

0 

139 

139 

AB. 

190 

0 

139 

139 

O.K. 

191 

0 

140 

172 

60 

372 

O.K. 

192 

0 

140 

400 

540 

A.B. 

193 

0 

141 

141 

O.K. 

194 

0 

143 

143 

O.K. 

195 

0 

143 

157 

300 

O.K. 

196 

0 

144 

144 

O.K. 

197 

0 

144 

187 

194 

308 

115 

310 

104 

165 

45 

69 

90 

69 

88 

87 

59 

239 

277 

69 

94 

90 

159 

193 

71 

237 

3,463 

AB. 

198 

0 

146 

146 

O.K. 

199 

0 

146 

146 

O.K. 

200 

0 

146 

184 

217 

547 

AB. 

201 

0 

148 

148 

O.K. 

202 

0 

149 

149 

O.K. 

203 

0 

149 

28 

38 

42 

46 

303 

O.K. 

204 

0 

149 

121 

84 

354 

A.B. 

205 

0 

150 

150 

A.B. 

206 

0 

150 

26 

142 

119 

437 

A.B. 

207 

0 

151 

272 

423 

O.K. 

208 

0 

152 

90 

95 

89 

79 

505 

O.K. 

209 

0* 

155 

155 

O.K. 

210 

0 

156 

156 

O.K. 

211 

0 

156 

156 

O.K. 

212 

0 

156 

47 

52 

217 

472 

A.B. 

213 

0 

160 

160 

A.B. 

214 

0 

160 

160 

O.K. 

*0v 

erflow 

signal. 

DIALING  BEHA  VIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


4^3 


Table  II  { 

[Cont'd) 

Obser- 
vation 

Attempt  No. 

Total 
Seconds 

Disposition 
of  the  Call 

No. 

1 

2 

160 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

215 

0 

160 

O.K. 

216 

0 

160 

160 

O.K. 

217 

0 

161 

161 

A.B. 

218 

0 

164 

164 

O.K. 

219 

0 

164 

164 

O.K. 

220 

0 

165 

165 

A.B. 

221 

0 

168 

168 

O.K. 

222 

0 

169 

169 

O.K. 

223 

0 

170 

170 

O.K. 

224 

0* 

170 

170 

O.K. 

225 

0 

171 

171 

O.K. 

226 

0 

175 

175 

O.K. 

227 

0 

179 

179 

O.K. 

228 

0 

180 

180 

O.K. 

229 

0 

181 

181 

O.K. 

230 

0 

181 

360 

541 

A.B. 

231 

0 

182 

182 

O.K. 

232 

0 

183 

183 

O.K. 

233 

0 

183 

312 

33 

528 

P.R. 

234 

0 

185 

185 

O.K. 

235 

0 

186 

251 

437 

A.B. 

236 

0 

192 

238 

430 

A.B. 

237 

0 

195 

477 

672 

O.K. 

238 

0 

198 

198 

A.B. 

239 

0 

202 

202 

O.K. 

240 

0 

205 

80 

285 

O.K. 

241 

0 

208 

208 

O.K. 

242 

0 

209 

209 

O.K. 

243 

0 

209 

209 

O.K. 

244 

0 

210 

210 

O.K. 

245 

0 

214 

50 

33 

29 

34 

79 

439 

O.K. 

246 

0 

215 

520 

735 

O.K. 

.247 

0 

215 

215 

A.B. 

248 

0 

217 

217 

O.K. 

249 

0* 

219 

219 

D.A. 

250 

0 

219 

219 

O.K. 

251 

0 

220 

163 

263 

186 

123 

99 

59 

105 

1,218 

AB. 

252 

0 

220 

162 

382 

O.K. 

253 

0 

222 

222 

O.K. 

254 

0 

226 

226 

O.K. 

255 

0 

228 

228 

O.K. 

256 

0 

230 

230 

AB. 

257 

0 

231 

27 

258 

P.R. 

258 

0 

232 

232 

O.K. 

259 

0 

235 

235 

O.K. 

260 

0* 

235 

235 

O.K. 

261- 

0 

238 

238 

O.K. 

262 

0 

242 

242 

O.K. 

263 

0 

245 

245 

O.K. 

264 

0 

246 

246 

O.K. 

265 

0 

252 

252 

AB. 

266 

0 

252 

252 

AB. 

267 

0 

258 

258 

O.K. 

268 

0 

260 

333 

593 

O.K. 

269 

0 

267 

193 

460 

AB. 

270 

0 

272 

219 

88* 

579 

AB. 

271 

0 

278 

278 

O.K. 

*Overflow  signal. 


434 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Table  II  {Cont'd) 

Obser- 

Attempt No. 

Total 

Disposition 

vation 

Seconds 

of  the  Call 

No. 

1 

2 

^ 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

' 

10 

272 

0 

281 

281 

O.K. 

273 

0 

287 

287 

O.K. 

274 

0 

288 

288 

O.K. 

275 

0 

289 

256 

545 

O.K. 

276 

0 

290 

290 

O.K. 

277 

0 

296 

296 

O.K. 

278 

0 

306 

306 

O.K. 

279 

0 

319 

319 

O.K. 

280 

0 

320 

320 

O.K. 

281 

0 

320 

■ 

320 

AB. 

282 

0* 

322 

322 

O.K. 

283 

0 

331 

331 

O.K. 

284 

0 

332 

332 

DA. 

285 

0 

338 

338 

AB. 

286 

0 

339 

339 

AB. 

287 

0 

347 

347 

O.K. 

288 

0 

351 

454 

805 

O.K. 

289 

0 

351 

351 

O.K. 

290 

0 

363 

363 

O.K. 

291 

0 

365 

365 

O.K. 

292 

0 

369 

369 

DA. 

293 

0 

376 

376 

O.K. 

294 

0 

378 

378 

O.K. 

295 

0 

382 

382 

O.K. 

296 

0 

395 

395 

O.K. 

297 

0 

398 

398 

O.K. 

298 

0 

398 

398 

AB. 

299 

0 

400 

400 

O.K. 

300 

0 

402 

402 

O.K. 

301 

0 

409 

409 

O.K. 

302 

0 

416 

416 

O.K. 

303 

0 

448 

448 

O.K. 

304 

0 

449 

449 

O.K. 

305 

0 

455 

455 

O.K. 

306 

0 

473 

473 

O.K. 

307 

0 

484 

484 

O.K. 

308 

0 

484 

484 

A.B. 

309 

0 

498 

498 

O.K. 

310 

0 

505 

505 

O.K. 

311 

0 

509 

509 

O.K. 

312 

0 

510 

510 

A.B. 

313 

0 

513 

513 

O.K. 

314 

0 

526 

526 

O.K. 

315 

0 

535 

456 

541 

1,532 

O.K. 

316 

0 

543 

543 

O.K. 

317 

0 

556 

249 

805 

O.K. 

318 

0 

561 

389 

950 

0.*:. 

319 

0 

568 

568 

O.K. 

320 

0 

569 

569 

O.K. 

321 

0 

570 

570 

O.K. 

322 

0 

586 

586 

O.K. 

323 

0 

605 

(over  600  seconds) 

605 

A.B. 

324 

0 

624 

(over  600  seconds) 

624 

A.B. 

325 

0 

(At  30  seconds  received  on  incoming  call  from  the  party- 
desired) 

A.B. 

326-334 

0* 

(9  observations) 

A.B. 

335-451 

0 

(117  observations) 

A.B. 

•Overflow  signaf. 


DIALING  BEHA  VIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS  435 

tions  that  equalled  or  exceeded  particular  time  intervals  between  the  starts 
of  the  first  and  second  attempts.  Figure  1(b)  shows  similar  graphical  data 
for  211  Bronx-Westchester  observations  and  Fig.  1(c)  shows  similar  graphi- 
cal data  for  445  Brooklyn-Queens  observations.  Each  of  these  three  graphs 
is  compared  with  a  composite  curve  for  1107  observations.  This  composite 
curve  is  developed  from  the  data  on  Fig.  2(a). 

Figure  2(a)  shows,  by  dots,  the  cumulative  percentage  for  1107  observa- 
tions, which  are  comprised  of  the  451  Manhattan,  211  Bronx- Westchester 
and  445  Brooklyn-Queens  observations,  that  equalled  or  exceeded  particular 
time  intervals  between  the  starts  of  the  first  and  second  attempts.  A  smooth 
curve  was  drawn  through  these  plotted  data.  This  curv^e  is  also  shown  on 
other  figures,  for  the  purpose  of  visual  comparison  of  the  various  plots  of 
data  with  the  overall  results. 

Figure  2(b)  shows  a  graph  concerning  465  observations  of  the  total  1107 
observations.  These  are  the  cases  where  a  busy  was  observed  on  a  second 
attempt.  (Of  the  1107  total  observations,  817  resulted  in  a  second  attempt 
within  ten  minutes  and  290  were  classified  as  abandoned.  Of  the  817 
second  attempts,  327  cases  were  able  to  complete  their  calls,  16  resulted  in  a 
don't  answer,  9  were  referred  to  an  operator  and  465  encountered  a  busy.) 
Figure  2(b)  shows,  by  dots,  the  cumulative  percentage  of  the  465  second 
attempts  that  equalled  or  exceeded  particular  time  intervals  between  the 
starts  of  the  second  and  third  attempts.  The  graph  of  Fig.  2(b)  does  not 
differ  significantly  from  the  composite  curve  for  1107  observations.  This 
feature  indicates  that,  when  observations  concerning  subscriber  busies  are 
made,  it  is  not  necessary  to  have  the  first  observed  attempts  coincide  with 
the  first  actual  attempts.     The  observations  can  begin  with  any  attempt. 

Figures  3  and  4  are  graphs  similar  to  that  shown  on  Fig.  2(a),  the  dif- 
ference being  in  the  graphical  ordinates  used  in  order  to  present  additional 
pictorial  representations  of  the  data  and  to  project  the  curve  beyond  the 
observed  limits. 

The  percentage  of  subscribers  who  dial  their  calls  again  after  encountering 
busies  is  estimated  from  Figs.  3  and  4  to  be  90%.  The  data  on  Fig.  3  are 
projected  to  a  time  interval  of  1,500  seconds  (25  minutes).  Judging  by  eye, 
beyond  this  point,  it  appears  that  the  curve  is  asymptotic  to  the  10% 
horizontal  line.  This  means  that  10%  of  the  subscribers  abandon  their 
calls  and  90%  try  again.  The  part  of  the  curve  on  Fig.  4  that  projects 
beyond  the  limit  of  the  observed  data  crosses  the  10%  line  at  6,400  seconds, 
an  interval  of  Ij  hours.  This  seems  to  be  a  very  long  time  for  a  subscriber 
to  wait  before  redialing  his  call.  It  is  unlikely  that  many  attempts  are  made 
beyond  this  period. 

Table  III  was  prepared  to  determine  the  disposition  of  the  calls  on  second 
attempts  and  to  see  if  a  correlation  exists  between  certain  time  intervals, 


436 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


V) 

fei 

'    s 

m^ 

1-$ 

(OCt 

is 

LI- 

0 

— 

— 1 

• 

- 

- 

— r 

-7 

- 

- 

i  1 

Ss 

••  1 

Po 

11 

<tr 

51U 

-OD 

SO 

- 

j 

i 

;/ 

; 

h 

j 

^ 

— 

/ 

_ 

— 

/ 

> 

— 1— 

2 

• 

.• 

q: 

UJ 

1- 

1° 

[ 

■ 

1 

/ 

.•• 

f; 

/ 

• 

i 
/ 

f 

/• 

/ 

f 

0 

1 

— 

— 

— 

i 

U) 

— 

Z 

LU 

i 

UJ 

] 

Dt/1 

az 

1 

1  0 

>A 

) 

^cc 

Oai 

o<^ 

/ 

CCOD 

! 

mo 
in 

.• 

( 

"^ 

f 

■^ 

— 

— 

/ 

— 

1 

r 

/ 

— 

• 

— 

— 

/ 

— 

/ 

/ 

QOO        <OiO^       <n  (MOO 


PER  CENT  OF  SUBSCRIBERS  OBSERVED  TO  HAVE  AN   ELAPSED   INTERVAL 
BETWEEN   DIALING  ATTEMPTS    EXCEEDING    THAT    SHOWN    BY  ABSCISSA 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


437 


s 

O 

1 
i 

2 

i 

i 

o 

: 

) 

i 

1 
i 

to 

Z 

o 

1 

tr 

UJ 

g 

! 

:* 
: 
: 

1 

i 

/ 

/ 

; 

: 
/ 

/ 

: 
1. 

_J 

miu 


5 

Si 


PER  CENT  OF  SUBSCRIBERS   OBSERVED  TO  HAVE  AN   ELAPSED    INTERVAL 
BETWEEN  DIALING  ATTEMPTS    EXCEEDING    THAT    SHOWN    BY  ABSCISSA 


s 

f 

? 
1 

I 

2 
O 

% 

§ 

in 

i 

1 

' 

\ 

i 

t 

i 

1 

f 

1 

/ 
/ 

: 

Q 

o 

o  o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

00 

<o  <n 

•^ 

n 

(VJ 

o 

a 

o 

B 

<u 

cj 

O) 

4^ 

^ 

<J=I 

o 

rt  a 

0) 

C3   fc 

O    (U 

r*^  -<-* 

«o    (Sj 

lO 

<Dp 

OL 

C   So 

«)!5 

fc    c3 

o 

C    C 

i" 

3  o 

in  > 

o 

r^oc 

u  ;^ 

lU 

C   <o 

(/) 

fe  s 

CQ 

►o 

O 

c 

O 

O   d 

S  Q 

O-   V. 

a. 

3  u. 

I 

en  •- 

z 

Si 

< 

ot 

«05 

UJ 

U-,      C 

1- 

O    o 

.5 

.      0_^ 

O    3 

•^fil 

>  en 

o  tn 

03   >-> 

O 

be  ^ 

C^ 

:3  3 

5" 

.2  "^ 

^O 

-\  o 

HI 

-fi  t 

+->  o 

3° 

bO  > 

G   rt 

■  -H    r™ 

(T 

cS 

0: 

fe-^ 

ow 

"'7 

LU 

UJ 

rn.S 

o^ 

CX) 

O 

n  UJ 

•  rj    0) 

CD 

rt  J= 

>*^ 

CO 

>n  UJ 

fe  to 

z 

o^ 

§1 
-8 

cvi^ 

UJ 

O    t« 

2 

10  f= 

11 

•-   fe 

o 

iix: 

"" 

•?n  o 

li 

in 

d 

ij^ 

1    tn 

o 

^3 

.^2i 

^^-o 

G 

438 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


in 

in 

si 

Tj 

OJ 

' 

rvj 

OJ 

o 

5 

CVI 

o 

o> 

1 

(^ 

% 

cc 
§ 

'^ 

o 

/ 

...i 

/ 

Q 

i 

1 
f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

i 

/ 

J 

>o 

J 
/ 

r 

CO 

^.y 

,.-'^ 

^ 

..-"" 

^y^ 

,.^ 

J-"" 

^^ 

-^ 

-•^ 

inOtf)ptnoioo«no»no<ooin 

PER  CENT  OF  SUBSCRIBERS  OBSERVED  TO   HAVE  AN   ELAPSED    INTERVAL 
BETWEEN  DIALING  ATTEMPTS    EXCEEDING    THAT   SHOWN    BY  ABSCISSA 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


VM) 


/ 

6 

si 

si 

OUJ 

/ 

Q 

/ 

oB 

/ 

Q 

/ 

«5 
o 

/ 

In 
o 

'1 

/ 

/ 

0              3 
D  ATTEM 

itering  a 

Q 

/ 

3            2 

SERVE 
jncoui 

1- 
_l 

U)  Q 

— L. 

/ 

5         2                3          456789  10              M 
OF  FIRST  OBSERVED  ATTEMPT  AND   SECOND  OB« 

g  the  dialing  behavior  of  subscribers  upon  t 

•• 

/ 

to 

z 
o 

i 

cr 

UJ 
CO 
CD 
O 

o 

/ 
.••• 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

f 

/ 

/ 

1.0             1 
EEN    START 

concernin 

y 

0.8 
BETW 

ions 

/ 

i 

<D  (/)        > 

/ 

2            0.3       0.4     0 
TIME  IN   MIN 

results  of  1107  o 

i 

.1              0.15       0 

—Composite 

o  o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

en  oo 

<o 

in 

■^ 

n 

C\J 

PER    CENT  OF  SUBSCRIBERS    OBSERVED   TO  HAVE 

AN    ELAPSED    INTERVAL  BETWEEN    DIALING    ATTEMPTS 

EXCEEDING    THAT   SHOWN    BY   ABSCISSA 


440 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


namely,  between  the  first  and  second  attempts  and  between  the  second  and 
third  attempts.  This  table  was  developed  by  allocating  the  817  observa- 
tions where  a  second  attempt  occurred  into  5  ranges  of  time  intervals  be- 
tween the  first  and  second  attempts  of  about  163  observations  each.  For 
each  range  of  time  interval  the  number  of  calls  that  were  respectively 
O.K.,  DA,  PR  and  AB  is  listed.  Where  a  third  attempt  occurred,  the 
numbers  of  calls  are  tabulated  by  ranges  of  time  intervals  between  the 
second  and  third  attempts.     The  ranges  of  time  intervals  are  the  same  as 

Table  III 

Disposition  of  Second  Attempts  and  Correlation  of  Time  Intervals  Between 

Data  Concerning  817  Observations  Having  a  Second  Attempt 


Range  of 

Time 

Intervals 

in  Seconds 

Between 

the  First 

Total 

Number  of 

Observed 

Second 

Attempts 

Disposition  of  the  Second 

Attempt:  Number  of  Second 

Attempts  that 

Correlation  of  Time  Intervals  Between 
Attempts:  Number  of  Second  Attempts 
Each  of  Which  Resulted  in  a  Busy  and 
which  was  Followed  by  a  Third  Attempt 
Within  the  Range  of  Seconds  Listed  in 
the  Column  Headings  Below 

and  Second 
Attempts 

Were 
OK 

Were 
DA 

Were 
PR 

Were 
AB 

0-45 

46-78 

79-130 

131-226 

227-600 

0-  45 

46-  78 

79-130 

131-226 

227-600 

164 
164 
164 
162 
163 

36 

44 
71 
83 
93 

7 
1 
2 
2 
4 

5 
2 
2 
0 
0 

26 

24 
21 

27 
28 

43* 

14 

6 

5 
6 

17 

26* 

14 

9 

0 

12 

28 
24* 

'   5 
4 

8 
13 
11 

15* 

5 

10 
12 
13 
16 

23* 

817 

327 

16 

9 

126 

74 

66 

73 

52 

74 

*  The  asterisk  marks  the  items  that  had  the  same  range  of  time  intervals  between  the 
first  and  second  attempts  and  between  the  second  and  third  attempts. 

those  used  between  the  first  and  second  attempts  in  order  to  see  if  a  correla- 
tion exists.     The  significant  facts  concerning  these  data  are: — 

1.  The  degree  of  success  in  obtaining  an  O.K.  call  was  better  for  those  subscribers  who 

waited  longer  before  making  a  subsequent  attempt.  Only  22%  of  the  subscribers 
who  waited  from  0  to  45  seconds  were  successful  as  against  57%  who  waited  from 
227  to  600  seconds. 

2.  The  number  of  calls  referred  to  the  operator  or  where  don't  answers  occurred  are  not 

significant  to  the  problem  in  hand, 

3.  The  incidence  of  abandoned  calls  appeats  to  be  uniform  for  the  five  ranges  of  time 

intervals.  This  means  that  the  90%  figure  estimated  from  Fig.  3  can  be  con- 
sidered to  apply  with  equal  effect  to  all  subscribers  without  regard  to  the  previous 
time  interval  between  dialing  attempts. 

4.  The  correlation  data  indicate  a  tendency  for  subscribers  to  establish  a  tempo  or  pace 

which  they  follow  when  redialing  their  calls.  If  this  tempo  did  not  exist  the  items 
on  Table  III  that  are  marked  with  asterisks  would  not  be  larger  than  the  surrounding 
items. 

It  was  previously  indicated  that  no  observations  were  taken  on  P.B.X. 
and  coin  lines.  An  earlier  attempt  to  collect  data  concerning  the  behavior 
of  subscribers  when  encountering  busies  produced  data  that  showed  fewer 
subsequent  attempts  than  was  believed  to  be  the  case.  The  differences 
between  the  earlier  data,  which  included  a  high  proportion  of  observations  on 
P.B.X.  and  coin  lines,  and  the  data  developed  herein  are  believed  to  be  fully 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS  441 

accounted  for  and  it  is  believed  that  the  P.B.X.  and  coin  lines  have  the  same 
basic  characteristics  regarding  diahng  behavior  upon  encountering  busies 
as  have  the  subscribers  who  were  observed.  No  significant  differences 
between  the  results  for  residential  and  business  offices  were  noted.  From 
these  indirect  facts,  it  is  concluded  that  no  significant  differences  exist  be- 
tween classes  of  subscribers. 

Effect  on  the  Trunk  Plant 

As  explained  earlier,  neither  the  Poisson  nor  the  Erlang  B  formula  gives 
an  accurate  picture  of  the  facts  when  trunk  shortages  occur  on  trunk  groups 
handling  subscriber-dialed  calls.  In  both  formulae  it  is  assumed  that  only 
one  attempt  is  made  per  call.  In  the  case  of  the  Poisson  formula,  the  call  is 
assumed  to  be  held  by  the  dial  equipment  until  a  trunk  becomes  available  or 
until  the  subscriber  hangs  up,  and  in  the  case  of  the  Erlang  B  formula,  the 
call  is  assumed  to  clear  out.  The  data  developed  from  the  service  observa- 
tions, concerning  the  dialing  behavior  of  subscribers  when  encountering 
busies,  indicate  that  subscribers  usually  make  many  subsequent  attempts 
when  a  busy  is  encountered.  Also  the  dial  equipment  with  which  we  are 
famiUar  clears  out  the  calls  by  giving  an  all-trunks-busy  signal.  In  order  to 
determine  what  a  trunk  capacity  table  might  be  like  that  takes  into  account 
the  habits  of  subscribers  and  the  limitations  of  the  dial  equipment  a  study 
based  on  simulated  traffic  was  made.  This  study  consisted  of  150  CCS 
(hundred  call  seconds  per  hour)  of  traffic  offered  to  a  trunk  group  varying 
from  5  to  12  trunks.  This  study  utilized  the  data  developed  from  the 
service  observations. 

A  study  based  on  simulated  traffic  is  a  method  used  to  study  the  capacities 
of  trunking  arrangements  where  a  formula  is  not  available.  This  type  of 
study  is  based  on  the  idea  that  calls  are  placed  at  random,  that  holding  times 
of  the  calls  follow  an  exponential  law,  and  that  these  characteristics  can  be 
simulated  by  random  numbers  drawn  from  an  appropriate  source. 

The  study  of  150  CCS  of  simulated  traffic  was  based  on  1,000  calls  offered 
to  a  trunk  group  during  a  ten-hour  period.  The  average  holding  time  per 
call  was  150  seconds,  with  the  total  holding  time  being  150,000  seconds  or 
41.66667  hours.  Sub-divisions  of  an  hour  were  expressed  in  decimal  terms, 
the  smallest  division  being  a  hundred-thousandth  part.  Three  sets  of 
random  numbers  were  used  for  the  following  purposes: 

1.  To  determine  at  what  time  in  the  ten-hour  period  a  particular  call  is 

offered  to  the  trunk  group. 

2.  To  furnish  the  holding  time  of  a  particular  call. 

3.  To  define  for  each  call  the  pattern  of  resubmission  of  the  call  to  the 

trunk  group  should  an  all-trmiks-busy  be  encountered  by  the  call. 
In  each  instance  the  numbers  were  taken  from  the  tail-end  portions  of 


442  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

successive  entries  of  19  significant  figures  of  ^^  (Tables  of  the  Exponential 
Function — WPA — 1939).  The  numbers  drawn  and  their  functions  in  the 
study  are  as  follows: 

A  set  of  1,000  six-digit  numbers  was  taken  from  the  last  six  digits  of 
entries  of  e^  from  x  =  0.4000  to  a:  =  0.4999.  These  1,000  six-digit  numbers 
were  arranged  in  numerical  order  to  give  the  placing  time  of  1,000  simulated 
calls.  The  first  digit  in  every  number  was  used  to  represent  the  hour  and 
the  last  five  digits  the  hundred- thousands  part  of  the  hour  when  a  particular 
call  was  placed.  The  randomness  of  this  particular  draw  was  checked  by 
determining  the  differences  between  successive  placement  times  and  then 
arranging  the  differences  in  numerical  order.  The  results  were  plotted  on 
a  cumulative  basis  on  Fig.  5,  where  a  visual  comparison  can  be  made  with 
theoretical  results. 

A  set  of  1,000  seven-digit  random  numbers  between  0,000,000  to  4,166,667 
inclusive  were  taken  from  the  last  seven  digits  of  entries  of  e^  from  x  =  0.5000 
to  X  =  0.7344.  Numbers  above  4,166,667  were  disregarded.  These  seven- 
digit  numbers  when  arranged  in  numerical  order  accounted  for  the  total 
holding  time  of  all  the  calls.  The  difference  between  successive  numbers 
arranged  in  numerical  order,  furnished  1,000  individual  holding  times. 

A  third  set  of  1,000  random  numbers  were  taken  from  two  sources  in 
the  e*  tables.  These  1,000  numbers  contained  a  variable  number  of  digits. 
These  numbers  were  for  use  when  calls  encountered  all  trunks  busies  in  order 
to  determine  which  calls  were  to  be  resubmitted  and  to  determine  the  time 
interval  for  resubmitting  a  call.  Previously,  it  was  estimated  from  Fig.  3, 
that  90%  of  the  subscribers  after  encountering  a  busy  redial  their  call. 
This  estimate  was  used  by  assigning  to  the  numerals  1  to  9  in  the  third  set  of 
random  numbers  the  characteristic  that  a  call  may  make  a  subsequent 
attempt  if  it  encounters  an  all  trunks  busy  and  by  assigning  to  the  numeral  0 
the  characteristic  that  the  call  drops  out  if  it  encounters  an  all  trunks  busy. 
About  10%  of  the  1,000  numbers  show  a  numeral  0  in  the  first  place  and 
hence  no  further  digits  are  needed  because  the  call  drops  out.  The  remain- 
ing 90%  of  the  numbers  show  numerals  from  1  to  9  in  the  first  place  and 
hence  may  make  a  second  attempt.  If  an  all  trunks  busy  is  encountered  on 
the  second  attempt,  a  numeral  from  1  to  9  in  the  second  place  determines 
that  a  third  attempt  may  be  made  while  the  numeral  0  determines  that  the 
call  drops  out.  This  process  is  repeated  for  each  place  of  each  number  in 
the  third  set  of  1,0(K)  random  numbers  until  the  numeral  0  appears.  The 
number  of  consecutive  places  showing  only  numerals  from  1  to  9,  indicates 
the  total  number  of  attempts  that  a  particular  call  might  make  before  it 
drops  out.  Thus  for  a  particular  number  the  numerals  might  be  4720. 
In  this  case,  three  subsequent  attempts  can  be  made.  Another  number 
might  be  834650.     In  this  case,  five  subsequent  attempts  can  be  made. 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


443 


/ 

/j" 

1 

/ 

-1 

^ 

^ 

y 

/ 

-/- — 

ft' 

/,' 

1/ 

< 

y 

1— 

cr 
o 

^ 

// 

I 
1- 

/ 

' 

^' 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

I 

t 

/ 

/ 

1 — 1— 

nio: 

CO 

> 

a; 

fc: 

-(-> 

5 

aj 

O 

x: 

Q 

7 

.t_i 

< 

c 

QC 

o,,, 

<u 

(VJ> 

a 

(/) 

« 

<0 

lil 

,(_) 

O 

kJ 

o 

ji: 

D 

</) 

c 

Z 

^ 

H 

tJ 

< 

T3 

h- 

t/3 

(f)  LU 

n 

{/) 

g 

111 

3 

1- 

G 

z 

O 

S 

^ 

o     o  o    o 
o     o  o    o 


o    CO     <o  m 


NUMBER    OF  CASES    HAVING  AN    ELAPSED   INTERVAL  EXCEEDING  THAT  SHOWN    BY  ABSCISSA 


444 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


The  effect  of  using  numerals  in  this  way  is  that  90%  of  the  calls  encountering 
all  trunks  busies  appear  as  subsequent  attempts. 

The  numeral  in  the  first  place  of  each  of  the  third  set  of  random  numbers 
was  used  to  establish  the  time  interval  for  resubmitting  each  call.  The  time 
intervals  were  developed  from  the  data  on  Fig.  4  by  dividing  the  vertical 
scale  into  10%  bands.  The  time  interval  corresponding  to  the  midpoint  of 
each  band  was. used  as  applicable  to  the  10%  of  the  calls  that  fell  within  that 
band.  The  midpoint  values,  the  corresponding  time  intervals,  and  the 
random  numerals  used  are  as  follows: 


Table  No.  IV 

Midpoint  Values  of  the 
10%  Bands  of  figure  4 

Corresponding  Time 
Intervals  in  Seconds 

Equivalent  Hundred- 
Thousandth  Part 
of  an  Hour 

Assignment  of  Random 
Numerals 

a 

h 

c  =  b  -ir  .036 

d 

95 

25 

700 

9 

85 

46 

1,300 

8 

75 

67 

1,900 

7 

65 

93 

2,600 

6 

55 
45 
35 
25 
15 
5 

132 
195 
320 
665 

2,250 
Infinite 

3,700 

5,400 

8,900 

18,500 

62,500 

Call  drops  out 

5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
0 

Based  on  the  results  indicated  by  Table  III,  that  subscribers  tend  to  make 
repetitious  attempts  at  a  uniform  pace  or  tempo,  the  time  interval  de- 
termined by  the  numeral  in  the  first  place  of  a  particular  number  of  the 
third  set  of  random  numbers  was  repeated  each  time  that  a  particular  call 
was  resubmitted. 

The  results  of  the  study  of  simulated  traffic  are  as  follows: 

Table  V 


Trunks 
Provided 


5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 


Attempts 

(Calls  Offered 

Plus  All 

Subsequent 

Attempts) 


1,658 
1,287 
1,147 
1,071 
1,027 
1,011 
1,005 
1,000 


Overflows  (Calls 

Encountering 

All  Trunks 

Busies) 


720 

319 

155 

75 

28 

12 

5 

0 


Ratios  of 

Overflows  to 

Attempts 


d  "  c  +  b 


.4343 
.2479 
.1351 
.0700 
.0273 
.0119 
.0050 
.0000 


Calls 

Calls 

Handled 

Abandoned 

e  -  6-c 

/  =  1000  -  c 

938 

62 

968 

32 

992 

8 

996 

4 

999 

1 

999 

1 

1,000 

0 

1,000 

0 

Approx. 

ch:s 

Handled 


ASOxe 


141 
145 
149 
149 
150 
150 
150 
150 


DIALING  BEHAVIOR  OF  SUBSCRIBERS 


445 


The  ratios  of  overflows  to  attempts  compared  with  theoretical  results  for 
the  Poisson  and  Erlang  B  formulae  for  153  CCS  of  offered  traffic  are  as 
follows: 

Table  VI 


Trunks  Provided 

Study  of  Simulated 
Traffic:  Ratios  of  Over- 
flows to  Attempts 

Theoretical  Results 

Erlang  B:  Ratio  of  Calls 
Lost  to  Calls  Offered 

Poisson:  Ratio  of  Calls 
Delayed  to  Calls  Offered 

5 

.4343 

.2139 

.4037 

6 

.2479 

.1293 

.2414 

7 

.1351 

.0715 

.1288 

8 

-       .0700 

.0359 

.0617 

9 

.0273 

.0163 

.0268 

10 

.0119 

.0068 

.0106 

11 

.0050 

.0026 

.0038 

12 

.0000 

.0009 

.0013 

The  ratios  of  overflows  to  attempts  are  apparently  very  close  to  the 
Poisson  results.  No  further  conclusion  should  be  drawn  from  this,  at  this 
time,  without  further  study. 

Summary 

Data  concerning  the  dialing  behavior  of  subscribers  who  encounter  busies 
have  been  obtained  for  New  York  City  subscribers.  These  data  indicate 
quantitatively:  (1)  how  soon  after  obtaining  a  busy,  a  subscriber  redials  his 
call;  (2)  what  percentage  of  subscribers  make  subsequent  attempts;  and 
(3)  the  pattern  of  time  intervals  between  successive  subsequent  attempts. 
These  data  appear  to  have  direct  application  in  the  development  of  trunk 
capacity  tables  for  trunks  handling  subscriber-dialed  traffic  when  trunk 
shortages  occur. 

Acknowledgments 

The  writer  gratefully  acknowledges  the  help  of  Mr.  H.  P.  Penny  in  plan- 
ning the  method  for  taking  the  service  observations  and  in  taking  the 
Manhattan  and  Bronx- Westchester  observations.  The  help  of  Mr.  R.  A. 
Colbeth  is  acknowledged  in  taking  the  Brooklyn-Queens  observations. 


spectra  of  Quantized  Signals 

By  W.  R.  BENNETT 

1.  Discussion  of  Problem  and  Results  Presented 

SIGNALS  which  are  quantized  both  in  time  of  occurrence  and  in  magni- 
tude are  in  fact  cjuite  old  in  the  communications  art.  Printing  tele- 
graph is  an  outstanding  example.  Here,  time  is  divided  into  equal  divisions, 
and  the  number  of  magnitudes  to  be  distinguished  in  any  one  interval  is 
usually  no  more  than  two,  corresponding  to  the  closed  or  open  positions  of  a 
sending  switch.  It  is  only  in  recent  years,  however,  that  the  development 
of  high  speed  electronic  devices  has  progressed  sufficiently  to  enable  quan- 
tizing techniques  to  be  applied  to  rapidly  changing  signals  such  as  pro- 
duced by  speech,  music,  or  television.  Quantizing  of  time,  or  time  division, 
has  found  application  as  a  means  of  multiplexing  telephone  channels.^ 
The  method  consists  of  connecting  the  different  channels  to  the  line  in  se- 
quence by  fast  moving  switches  synchronized  at  the  transmitting  and  re- 
ceiving ends.  In  this  way  a  transmission  medium  capable  of  handling  a 
much  wider  band  of  frequencies  than  required  for  one  telephone  channel  can 
be  used  simultaneously  by  a  group  of  channels  without  mutual  interference. 
The  plan  is  the  same  as  that  used  in  multiplex  telegraphy.  The  difference 
is  that  ordinary  rotating  machinery  suffices  at  the  relatively  low  speeds  em- 
ployed by  the  latter,  while  the  high  speeds  needed  for  time  division  multi- 
plex telephony  can  be  realized  only  by  practically  inertialess  electron 
streams.  Also  the  widths  of  frequency  band  required  for  multiplex  tele- 
phony are  enormously  greater  than  needed  for  the  telegraph,  and  in  fact 
have  become  technically  feasible  only  with  the  development  of  wide-band 
radio  and  cable  transmission  systems.  As  far  as  any  one  channel  is  con- 
cerned the  result  is  the  same  as  in  telegraphy,  namely  that  signals  are  re- 
ceived at  discrete  or  quantized  times.  In  the  limiting  case  when  many 
channels  are  sent  the  speech  voltage  from  one  channel  is  practically  con- 
stant during  the  brief  switch  closure  and,  in  effect,  we  can  send  only  one  mag- 
nitude for  each  contact  or  quantum  of  time.  The  more  famihar  word 
"sampling"  will  be  used  here  interchangeably  with  the  rather  formidable 
term  "quantizing  of  time". 

Quantizing  the  magnitude  of  speech  signals  is  a  fairly  recent  innovation. 
Here  we  do  not  permit  a  selection  from  a  continuous  range  of  magnitudes 
but  only  certain  discrete  ones.     This  means  that  the  original  speech  signal 

446 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  447 

is  to  be  replaced  by  a  wave  constructed  of  quantized  values  selected  on  a 
minimum  error  basis  from  the  discrete  set  available.  Clearly  if  we  assign 
the  quantum  values  with  sufficiently  close  spacing  we  may  make  the  quan- 
tized wave  indistinguishable  by  the  ear  from  the  original.  The  purpose  of 
quantization  of  magnitudes  is  to  suppress  the  effects  of  interference  in  the 
transmission  medium.  By  the  use  of  precise  receiving  instruments  we  can 
restore  the  received  quanta  without  any  effect  from  superposed  interference 
provided  the  interference  does  not  exceed  half  the  difference  between  ad- 
jacent steps. 

By  combining  quantization  of  magnitude  and  time,  we  make  it  possible 
to  code  the  speech  signals,  since  transmission  now  consists  of  sending  one  of 
a  discrete  set  of  magnitudes  for  each  distinct  time  interval.^  '^  -^  '^  •'' ' '  The 
maximum  advantage  over  interference  is  obtained  by  expressing  each  dis- 
crete signal  magnitude  in  binary  notation  in  which  the  only  symbols  used 
are  0  and  1.  The  number  which  is  written  as  4  in  decimal  notation  is  then 
represented  by  100,  8  by  1000,  16  by  10,000;  etc.  In  general,  if  we  have  N 
digit  positions  in  the  binary  system,  we  can  construct  2^^  different  numbers. 
If  we  need  no  more  than  2^  different  discrete  magnitudes  for  speech  trans- 
mission, complete  information  can  be  sent  by  a  sequence  of  N  on-or-off 
pulses  during  each  sampling  interval.  Actually  a  total  of  2^!  different 
coding  plans  (sets  of  one-to-one  correspondences  between  signal  magnitudes 
and  on-or-off  sequences)  is  possible.  The  straightforward  binary  number 
system  is  taken  as  a  representative  example  convenient  for  either  theoretical 
discussion  or  practical  instrumentation.  We  assume  that  absence  of  a  pulse 
represents  the  symbol  0  and  presence  of  a  pulse  represents  the  symbol  1. 
The  receiver  then  need  only  distinguish  between  two  conditions:  no  trans- 
mitted signal  and  full  strength  transmitted  signal.  By  spacing  the  re- 
peaters at  intervals  such  that  interference  does  not  reach  half  the  full 
strength  signal  at  the  receiver,  we  can  transmit  the  signal  an  indefinitely 
great  distance  without  any  increment  in  distortion  over  that  originally 
introduced  by  the  quantizing  itself.  The  latter  can  be  made  negligible  by 
using  a  sufficient  number  of  steps. 

To  determine  the  number  of  quantized  steps  required  to  transmit  specific 
signals,  we  require  a  knowledge  of  the  relation  between  distortion  and  step 
size.  This  problem  is  the  subject  of  the  present  paper.*  We  divide  the 
problem  into  two  parts:  (1)  quantizing  the  magnitude  only  and  (2)  combined 
quantizing  of  magnitude  and  time.  The  first  part  can  be  treated  by  a  simple 
model:  the  ''staircase  transducer",  which  is  a  device  having  the  instantane- 
ous ouput  vs.  input  curve  shown  by  Fig.  1.     Signals  impressed  on  the  stair- 

*  Other  features  of  the  quantizing  and  coding  theor>'  are  discussed  in  forthcoming 
papers  by  Messrs.  C.  E.  Shannon,  J.  R.  Pierce,  and  B.  M.  Oliver. 


448 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


case  transducer  are  sorted* into  voltage  slices  (the  treads  of  the  staircase), 
and  all  signals  within  plus  or  minus  half  a  step  of  the  midvalue  of  a  sUce  are 
replaced  in  the  output  by  the  midvalue.  The  corresponding  output  when 
the  input  is  a  smoothly  varying  function  of  time  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  2. 
The  output  remains  constant  while  the  input  signal  remains  within  the 
boundaries  of  a  tread  and  changes  abruptly  by  one  full  step  when  the  signal 
crosses  the  boundary.  It  is  not  within  the  scope  of  the  present  paper  to 
discuss  the  internal  mechanism  of  a  staircase  transducer,  which  may  have 
many  different  physical  embodiments.  We  are  concerned  rather  with  the 
distortion  produced  by  such  a  device  when  operating  perfectly. 


EoX 


3  - 


r 


-4 

xEo 


^0^-i 


.5       _3       _1    0    1  3  5 

2  2  2  2  2  2 

INPUT    VOLTAGE,  E, 

Fig.  1 — Quantizing  characteristic. 


xE< 


The  distortion  or  error  consists  of  the  difference  between  the  input  and 
output  signals.  The  maximum  instantaneous  value  of  distortion  is  half  of 
one  step,  and  the  total  range  of  variation  is  from  minus  half  a  step  to  plus 
half  a  step.  The  error  as  a  function  of  input  signal  voltage  is  plotted  in 
Fig.  3  and  a  typical  variation  with  time  is  indicated  in  Fig.  2.  If  there  is  a 
large  number  of  small  steps,  the  error  signal  resembles  a  series  of  straight 
lines  with  varying  slopes,  but  nearly  always  extending  over  the  vertical 
interval  between  minus  and  plus  half  a  step.  The  exceptional  cases  occur 
when  the  signal  goes  through  a  maximum  or  minimum  within  a  step.  The 
limiting  condition  of  closely  spaced  steps  enables  us  to  derive  quite  simply 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS 


449 


an  approximate  value  for  the  mean  square  error,  which  will  later  be  shown  to 
be  sufficiently  accurate  in  most  cases  of  practical  importance.  This  ap- 
proximation consists  of  calculating  the  mean  square  value  of  a  straight  Une 
going  from  minus  half  a  step  to  plus  half  a  step  with  arbitrary  slope.     If 


Fig.  2 — A  quantized  signal  wave  and  the  corresponding  error  wave. 


lU       1 

< 


A 


\-\^^\\^\W 


Er,X 


9_7_5  31  lol  1         ^  I         1 

~2         2  2      "2       "2  2  2         2         2         2 

INPUT   VOLTAGE,  E| 

Fig.  3 — Characteristic  of  the  errors  in  quantizing. 


xE, 


£o  is  the  voltage  corresponding  to  one  step,  and  ^  is  the  slope,  the  equation 
of  the  typical  Une  is: 


(1.0) 


where  e  is  the  error  voltage  and  t  is  the  time  referred  to  the  midpoint  as 
origin.     Then  the  mean  square  error  is 


■-i.L 

or  one  twelfth  the  square  of  the  step  size 


^0/2.  1^ 


(1.1) 


450  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Not  all  the  distortion  falls  within  the  signal  band.  The  distortion  may 
be  considered  to  result  from  a  modulation  process  consisting  of  the  appli- 
cation of  the  component  frequencies  of  the  original  signal  to  the  non-linear 
staircase  characteristic.  Kigh  order  modulation  products  may  have  fre- 
quencies quite  remote  from  those  in  the  original  signal  and  these  can  be  ex- 
cluded by  a  filter  passing  only  the  signal  band.  It  becomes  of  importance, 
therefore,  to  calculate  the  spectrum  of  the  error  wave.  This  we  shall  do  in 
the  next  section  for  a  generalized  signal  using  the  method  of  correlation, 
which  is  based  on  the  fact  that  the  power  spectrum  of  a  wave  is  the  Fourier 
cosine  transform  of  the  correlation  function.  The  result  is  then  applied  to  a 
particular  kind  of  signal,  namely  one  having  energy  uniformly  distributed 
throughout  a  definite  frequency  band  and  with  the  phases  of  the  components 
randomly  distributed.  This  is  a  particularly  convenient  type  of  signal 
because  it  in  effect  averages  over  a  large  number  of  possible  discrete  fre- 
quency components  within  the  band.  Single  or  double-frequency  signal 
waves  are  awkward  for  analytical  purposes  because  of  the  ragged  nature  of 
the  spectra  produced.  The  amplitudes  of  particular  harmonics  or  cross- 
products  of  discrete  frequency  components  are  found  to  oscillate  violently 
with  magnitude  of  input.  The  use  of  a  large  number  of  input  components 
smooths  out  the  irregularities. 

The  type  of  spectra  obtained  is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  Anticipating  binary 
coding,  we  have  shown  results  in  terms  of  the  number  of  binary  digits  used. 
The  number  of  different  magnitudes  available  are  16,  32,  64,  128,  and  256 
for  TV  =  4,  5,  6,  7  and  8  digits,  respectively.  Here  a  word  of  explanation  is 
needed  with  respect  to  the  placing  of  the  scale  of  quantized  voltages.  A 
signal  with  a  continuous  distribution  of  components  along  the  frequency 
scale  is  theoretically  capable  of  assuming  indefinitely  great  values  of  instan 
taneous  voltage  at  infrequent  instants  of  time.  An  actual  quantizer  (stair- 
case transducer)  has  a  finite  overload  value  which  must  not  be  exceeded  and 
hence  can  have  only  a  finite  number  of  steps.  This  difficulty  is  resolved 
here  by  the  experimentally  observed  fact  that  thermal  noise,  which  has  the 
type  of  spectrum  we  have  assumed  for  our  signal,  has  never  been  observed 
to  exceed  appreciably  a  voltage  four  times  its  root-mean-square  value. 
Hence  we  have  placed  the  root-mean-square  value  of  the  input  signal  at 
one-fourth  the  overload  input  to  the  staircase.  This  fixes  the  relation  be- 
tween step  size  and  the  total  number  of  steps.  In  the  actual  calculation 
the  number  of  steps  is  taken  as  infinite;  the  effect  of  the  assumed  additional 
steps  beyond  2^  is  negligible  because  of  the  rarity  of  excursion  into  this  range. 

The  curves  of  Fig.  4  are  drawn  for  the  case  in  which  the  signal  band  starts 
at  zero  frequency.  The  original  signal  band  width  is  represented  by  one 
unit  on  the  horizontal  scale.  The  relatively  wide  spread  of  the  distortion 
spectrum  is  clearly  shown.     As  the  number  of  digits  (or  steps)  is  increased 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS 


451 


^-3 


2 


2  10- 


2 

3  4 


t  10   ' 


-\ 

-1 

- 1 

1      NO.  OF  BINARY 
-    I          DIGITS. N: 
\  4   DIGITS 

\ 

"  w 

[— 

"  W 

-  V 

{ 

1 

:^1 

\ 

\  5  DIGITS 

- 

\\ 

- 

\\ 

- 

\ 

^■^"^^ 

N 

\ 

S.  6  DIGITS 

\ 

\\ 

\, 

- 

^J 

\^ 

- 

\,    ^ 

\, 

- 

\, 

\ 

- 

~^ 

\ 

>.    7   DIGITS 

\ 

N, 

\ 

^^ 

- 

S 

V 

"^ 

s.,^^ 

- 

\ 

^^-^ 

-.>.„.^ 

- 

\ 

8  DIGITS 

■^ 

- 

\ 

120  160  200  240  280  320 

FREQUENCY/  SIGNAL    BAND   WIDTH 


360 


400 


440 


Fig.  4 — Spectrum  of  distortion  from  quantizing  the  magnitudes  of  a  random  noise 
wave.  Full  load  on  the  quantizer  is  reached  by  peaks  12  db  above  the  r.m.s.  value  of 
input. 


452  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  spectrum  becomes  flatter  over  a  wider  range,  but  with  d  smaller  maxi- 
mum density.  The  area  under  each  curve  represents  the  total  mean  power 
in  the  corresponding  error  wave  and  is  found  to  agree  quite  accurately 
with  the  approximate  result  of  Eq.  (1.1).  The  distortion  power  faUing  in 
the  signal  band  is  represented  by  the  area  included  under  the  curve  from 
zero  to  unit  abscissa. 

Quantizing  the  magnitude  only  is  not  a  technically  attractive  method  of 
transmission  because  of  the  wide  frequency  band  required  to  preserve  the 
discrete  values  of  the  quanta.  Thus  in  a  128-step  system,  a  full  load  sinus- 
oidal signal  passes  through  64  different  steps  each  quarter  cycle  and  hence 
would  require  transmitting  256  successively  different  magnitudes  during 
each  period  of  the  signal  frequency.  We  therefore  consider  the  second  prob- 
lem— that  of  sampling  the  quantized  magnitudes. 

The  theory  of  periodic  sampling  of  signals  is  a  limiting  case  of  com- 
mutator modulation  theory  as  previously  shown  by  the  author.^  We  may 
think  of  a  periodically  closed  switch  in  series  with  the  line  and  source  as 
producing  a  multiplication  of  the  signal  by  a  switching  function.  The 
switching  function  has  a  finite  value  during  the  time  of  switch  closure  and  is 
zero  at  other  times.  It  may  be  expanded  in  a  Fourier  series  containing  a 
term  of  zero  frequency,  the  repetition  frequency  of  switch  closure,  and  all 
harmonics  of  the  latter.  Multiplication  of  the  signal  by  the  Fourier  series 
representing  the  constant  component  of  the  switching  function  gives  a  term 
proportional  to  the  signal  itself.  Multiplication  of  the  signal  by  the  funda- 
mental component  of  the  switching  function  gives  upper  and  lower  side- 
bands on  the  repetition  frequency.  Likewise  multiplication  by  the  har- 
monics gives  sidebands  on  each  harmonic.  The  signal  is  separable  from  the 
sidebands  on  a  frequency  basis  if  the  signal  band  does  not  overlap  the  lower 
sideband  on  the  repetition  frequency.  This  leads  to  the  condition  for  no 
distortion  in  time  division:  the  highest  signal  frequency  must  be  less  than 
one-half  the  repetition  frequency. 

To  apply  the  above  theory  to  instantaneous  sampling  we  let  the  duration 
of  switch  closure  in  one  period  approach  zero.  We  then  approach  the  con- 
dition of  one  signal  value  in  each  period,  so  that  the  repetition  frequency 
now  becomes  the  sampling  frequency.  Clearly  the  sampling  frequency 
must  slightly  exceed  twice  the  highest  signal  frequency.  We  also  note  that 
as  the  contact  time  tends  toward  zero,  the  switching  function  approaches  a 
periodically  repeated  impulse.  The  important  terms  of  the  Fourier  series 
representing  the  switching  function  accordingly  become  a  set  of  harmonics 
of  equal  amplitude  with  a  constant  component  equal  to  half  the  amplitude 
of  the  typical  harmonic.  On  multiplication  of  this  series  by  the  signal,  we 
get  a  set  of  sidebands  of  equal  amplitude  including  the  one  corresponding  to 
the  original  signal  itself,  the  sideband  on  zero  frequency. 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS 


453 


These  results  may  be  applied  to  the  staircase  transducer.  The  output 
may  be  resolved  into  the  input  signal  plus  the  error.  The  sampling  fre- 
quency is  assumed  to  exceed  its  minimum  required  value  of  twice  the  top 
signal  frequency.  The  component  of  the  output  that  is  equal  to  the  origi- 
nal signal  can  therefore  be  separated  at  the  receiver  by  a  filter  passing  the 
original  signal  band.  A  similar  statement  cannot  be  made  for  the  error 
component,  for  it  has  been  found  to  extend  over  a  vastly  greater  range  than 
the  original  signal.  To  calculate  the  total  distortion  received  in  the  signal 
band,  we  can  multiply  the  distortion  spectrum  by  the  switching  function  and 
sum  up  all  sideband  contributions  to  the  original  signal  band.    Each  har- 


20 


35 


|-40 

<n< 

?o45 


$  50 


^ 

-^ 

.^ 

NO.  OF  BINARY 
DIGITS,  N: 

^ 



4    DIGITS 

'— 1 

1 

^ 

^ 

5  DIGITS 

■-*, 

^ 

■^ 

'^ 

- 

6  DIGIT<^ 

"^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

-- 

^ 

^ 

h 

^^^ — , 

"-- 

^ 

7  DIGITS 

^ 

1 

1 

---- 

..^ 

8  DIGITS 

1      1     1 

=n 

^  2  4  6       8    10  20  40       60    80  100  200  400      600        1000 

SAMPLING   frequency/signal    BAND   WIDTH 

Fig.  5 — Total  distortion  in  signal  band  from  quantizing  and  sampling  a  random  noise 
wave.     Full  load  on  the  quantizer  is  12  db  above  the  r.m.s.  value  of  input. 


monic  of  the  switching  function  makes  such  contributions  by  beating  with 
a  band  of  the  error  spectrum  above  and  below  the  frequency  of  the  har- 
monic. These  contributions  add  as  power  when  the  sampling  frequency  is 
independent  of  the  individual  frequencies  contained  in  the  signal.  The 
total  error  power  accepted  by  the  signal  band  filter  decreases  as  the  sampHng 
frequency  is  increased  because  each  harmonic  of  the  sampling  frequency  is 
thereby  pushed  upward  into  a  less  dense  portion  of  the  error  spectrum.  In 
the  limit  as  the  sampling  frequency  is  made  indefinitely  large,  we  return  to 
the  non-sampled  case,  that  of  the  staircase  transducer  only. 

Figure  5  shows  the  calculated  curves  of  distortion  in  the  signal  band 
plotted  as  a  function  of  ratio  of  sampling  frequency  to  signal  band  width. 
The  curves  have  downward  slopes  approaching  asymptotes  corresponding 
to  the  area  from  zero  to  unity  under  the  corresponding  curves  of  Fig.  4. 


454  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  initial  points  at  the  minimum  sampUng  rate  are  determined  on  the  other 
hand  by  the  total  area  under  the  curves  of  Fig.  4,  since  the  accepted  side- 
bands on  the  harmonics  in  this  case  exactly  fill  out  the  entire  error  spectrum. 
These  initial  points  are  therefore  given  quite  accurately  by  Eq.  (1.1),  which, 
as  pointed  out  before,  is  a  good  approximation  for  the  total  areas.  We  can 
also  give  a  direct  demonstration  of  the  applicability  of  Eq.  (1.1)  to  the 
initial  points  of  the  curves  of  Fig.  5  by  means  of  the  following  theorem: 

Theorem  I.  The  mean  square  value  of  the  response  of  an  ideal  low-pass 
filter  to  a  train  of  unit  impulses  multiplied  by  instantaneous  samples  occur- 
ring at  double  the  cutoff  frequency  is  equal  to  the  mean  square  value  of  the 
samples  provided  no  harmonic  of  the  sampling  frequency  is  equal  to  twice 
the  frequency  of  one  component  or  equal  to  the  sum  or  difference  of  two 
component  frequencies  of  the  sampled  signal.  Proof  of  the  theorem  is  given 
in  Appendix  I.  To  apply  it  here  we  resolve  the  input  into  two  components: 
the  true  signal  and  the  error.  The  former  is  reproduced  with  fidelity  in  the 
output  because  it  contains  only  frequencies  below  half  the  sampling  rate. 
The  error  component  in  the  output  represents  the  response  of  the  low-pass 
filter  to  the  error  samples.  Except  for  very  special  types  of  signals,  the  error 
samples  are  uniformly  distributed  throughout  the  range  from  minus  half  a 
step  to  plus  half  a  step.  Calculation  of  the  mean  square  value  of  such  a 
distribution  gives  Eq.  (1.1). 

We  have  tacitly  assumed  above  that  the  sampled  values  applied  to  the 
filter  in  the  output  of  the  system  are  infinitesimally  narrow  pulses  of  height 
proportional  to  the  samples.  In  actual  systems  it  is  found  advantageous  to 
hold  the  sampled  values  constant  in  the  individual  receiving  channels  until 
the  next  sample  is  received.  This  means  that  the  input  to  the  channel  filter 
is  a  succession  of  rectangular  pulses  of  heights  proportional  to  the  samples. 
The  resulting  magnitude  of  recovered  signal  is  much  larger  than  would  be 
obtained  if  very  short  pulses  of  the  same  heights  were  used;  stretching  the 
pulses  in  time  produces  in  effect  an  amplification.  The  amplification  is 
obtained,  however,  at  the  expense  of  a  variation  of  channel  transmission 
with  signal  frequency.  Infinitesimally  short  pulses  have  a  flat  frequency 
spectrum,  while  pulses  of  finite  duration  do  not.  The  frequency  character- 
istic introduced  by  lengthening  the  pulses  is  easily  calculated  by  determining 
the  steady  state  admittance  function  of  a  network  which  converts  impulses 
to  the  actual  pulses  used.  The  general  formula  for  this  admittance  when  a 
unit  impulse  input  is  converted  into  an  output  pulse  g{t)  is  easily  shown  to 
be: 

F(ia,)  =/.  r  giOe-''-'  dt  (1.2) 

J_oo 

where/,  is  the  repetition  frequency  and  co  is  the  angular  signal  frequency. 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  455 

We  shall  call  this  Theorem  II  and  give  the  proof  in  Appendix  II.  This 
relation  is  similar  to  that  found  in  television  and  telephotography  for  the 
''aperture  effect",  or  variation  of  transmission  with  frequency  caused  by  the 
finite  size  of  the  scanning  aperture.  The  pulse  shape  g{t)  is  analogous  to  a 
variation  in  aperture  height  g{x),  where  x  is  distance  along  the  line  of  scan- 
ning. Hence  it  has  become  customary  to  use  the  term  ''aperture  effect"  in 
the  theory  of  restoring  signals  from  samples.  The  aperture  effect  asso- 
ciated with  rectangular  pulses  lasting  from  one  sample  to  the  next  amounts 
to  an  amplitude  reduction  of  ir/l  or  3.9  db  at  the  top  signal  frequency  (one 
half  the  sampling  rate)  compared  to  a  signal  of  zero  frequency.  There  is 
also  a  constant  delay  introduced  equal  to  half  the  sampling  period.  The 
latter  does  not  cause  any  distortion  and  the  amplitude  effect  can  be  corrected 
by  properly  designed  equalizing  networks. 

The  fact  that  many  pulse  spectra  can  be  simply  expressed  in  terms  of  a 
flat  spectrum  associated  with  sharp  pulses  and  an  aperture  effect  caused  by 
the  particular  shape  of  pulse  used  does  not  appear  to  have  been  recognized 
in  the  recent  literature,  although  applications  were  made  by  Nyquist  in  a 
fundamental  paper^  of  1928.  Premature  introduction  of  a  specific  finite 
pulse  not  only  complicates  the  work,  but  also  restricts  the  generality  of  the 
results. 

Distortion  caused  by  quantizing  errors  produces  much  the  same  sort  of 
effects  as  an  independent  source  of  noise.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  the 
spectrum  of  the  distortion  in  the  receiving  filter  output  is  practically  inde- 
pendent of  that  of  the  signal  over  a  wide  range  of  signal  magnitudes.  Even 
when  the  signal  is  weak  so  that  only  a  few  quantizing  steps  are  operated, 
there  is  usually  enough  residual  noise  on  actual  systems  to  determine  the 
quantizing  noise  and  mask  the  relation  betw^een  it  and  the  signal.  Eq. 
(1.1)  yields  a  simple  rule  enabUng  one  to  estimate  the  magnitude  of  the 
quantizing  noise  with  respect  to  a  full  load  sine  wave  test  tone.  Let  the  full 
load  test  tone  have  peak  voltage  E;  its  mean  square  value  is  then  E^/2. 
The  total  range  of  the  quantizer  must  be  2E  because  the  test  signal  swings 
between  —E  and  -\-E.  The  ratio  2E/Eq  =  r  is  a  convenient  one  to  use  in 
specifying  the  quantizing;  it  is  the  ratio  of  the  total  voltage  range  to  the 
range  occupied  by  one  step.  The  ratio  of  mean  square  signal  to  mean  square 
quantizing  noise  voltage  is 

£2/2  6£2         3r2 


El/12       4£V^' 


(1.3) 


Actual  systems  fail  to  reproduce  the  full  band  /.,/2  because  of  the  finite 
frequency  range  needed  for  transition  from  pass-band  to  cutoff.  If  we  in- 
troduce a  factor  k  to  represent  the  ratio  of  equivalent  rectangular  noise  band 


456  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

to/s/2,  the  actual  received  noise  power  is  multiplied  by  k.  Then  the  signal- 
to-noise  ratio  in  db  for  a  full  load  test  tone  is 

D  =  10  1ogio/-db  (1.4) 

In  practical  applications  the  value  of  k  is  about  3/4  which  gives  the  con- 
venient  rule: 

D  =  201ogior  +  3db  (1.5) 

In  other  words,  we  add  3  db  to  the  ratio  expressed  in  db  of  peak-to-peak 
quantizing  range  to  the  range  occupied  by  one  step.  For  various  numbers 
of  binary  digits  the  values  of  D  are: 

Table  I 


Number  of  Digits 

D 

3 

21 

4 

27 

5 

33 

6 

39 

7 

45 

8 

51 

From  Table  I  we  can  make  a  quick  estimate  of  the  number  of  digits  re- 
quired for  a  particular  signal  transmission  system  provided  that  we  have 
some  idea  of  the  required  signal-to-noise  ratio  for  a  full  load  test  tone.  The 
latter  ratio  may  be  expressed  in  terms  of  the  full  load  test  tone  which  the 
system  is  required  to  handle  and  the  maximum  permissible  unweighted 
noise  power  at  the  same  level  point.  Since  quantizing  noise  is  uniformly 
distributed  throughout  the  signal  band,  its  interfering  effect  on  speech  or 
other  program  material  is  probably  similar  to  that  of  thermal  noise  with  the 
same  mean  power.  Requirements  given  in  terms  of  noise  meter  readings 
must  be  corrected  by  the  proper  weighting  factor  before  applying  the  table. 
If  the  signal  transmitted  is  itself  a  multiplex  signal  with  channels  allotted 
on  a  frequency  division  basis,  the  noise  power  falling  in  each  channel  is  the 
same  fraction  of  the  total  noise  power  as  the  band  width  occupied  by  the 
signal  is  of  the  total  band  width  of  the  system. 

We  have  thus  far  considered  only  the  case  in  which  the  quantized  steps  are 
equal.  In  actual  systems  designed  for  transmission  of  speech  it  is  found  ad- 
vantageous to  taper  the  steps  in  such  a  way  that  finer  divisions  are  available 
for  weak  signals.  For  a  given  number  of  total  steps  this  means  that  coarser 
quantization  applies  near  the  peaks  of  large  signals,  but  the  larger  absolute 
errors  are  tolerable  here  because  they  are  small  relative  to  the  bigger  signal 
values.  Tapered  quantizing  is  equivalent  to  inserting  complementary  non- 
linear transducers  in  the  signal  branch  before  and  after  the  quantizer.     In 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  457 

the  usual  case,  the  transducer  ahead  of  the  quantizer  is  of  the  "caftipf^ssing" 
type  in  which  the  loss  increases  as  the  signal  increases.  If  the  full  load  sig- 
nal just  covers  all  the  linear  quantizing  steps,  a  weak  signal  gets  a  bigger 
share  of  the  steps  than  it  would  if  the  transducer  were  hnear.  The  trans- 
ducer after  the  quantizer  must  be  of  the  "expanding"  type  which  gives  de- 
creased loss  to  the  large  signals  to  make  the  overall  combination  linear. 

On  the  basis  of  the  theory  so  far  discussed,  we  can  say  that  the  error  spec- 
trum out  of  the  linear  quantizer  is  virtually  the  same  whether  or  not  the  sig- 
nal input  is  compressed.  The  operation  of  the  expandor  then  magnifies  the 
errors  produced  when  the  signal  is  large.  When  weak  signals  are  applied, 
the  mean  square  error  is  given  by  Eq.  (1.1),  as  before,  but  when  the  signal 
is  increased  an  increment  in  noise  occurs.  The  mean  square  value  of  noise 
voltage  under  load  may  be  computed  from  the  probability  density  of  the 
signal  values  and  the  output-vs-input  characteristic  of  the  expandor,  or  its 
inverse,  the  compressor.  A  first  order  approximation,  valid  when  the  steps 
are  not  too  far  apart,  replaces  (1.1)  by: 


12  h 


Qi 


pi{Ei)  dEi  ,      . 


where  Qi  and  Q2  are  the  minimum  and  maximum  values  of  the  input  signal 
voltage  El ,  pi  (£1)  is  the  probability  density  function  of  the  input  voltage, 
and  F'{Ei)  is  the  slope  of  F{Ei),  the  compression  characteristic. 

Some  experimental  results  obtained  with  a  laboratory  model  of  a  quan- 
tizer are  given  in  Figs.  6-9.  Figs.  6-7  show  measurements  on  the  third 
harmonic  associated  with  6-digit  quantizing.  As  mentioned  before,  the 
amplitude  of  any  one  harmonic  oscillates  with  load.  The  calculated  curves 
shown  were  obtained  by  straightforward  Fourier  analysis.  In  the  measure- 
ments it  was  convenient  to  spot  only  the  successive  nulls  and  peaks. 

In  Fig.  6  the  bias  was  set  to  correspond  to  the  stair-case  curve  of  Fig.  1, 
while  in  Fig.  7  the  origin  is  moved  to  the  point  (£o/2,  -Eo/2),  i.e.,  to  the  mid- 
dle of  a  riser  instead  of  a  tread.  The  peaks  of  ratio  of  harmonic  to  funda- 
mental decrease  steadily  as  the  amphtude  of  the  signal  is  increased  to  full 
load,  which  is  just  opposite  to  the  usual  behavior  of  a  communication  sys- 
tem. It  is  difficult  to  extrapolate  experience  with  other  systems  to  specify 
quality  in  terms  of  this  type  of  harmonic  distortion. 

Figure  8  shows  measurements  of  the  total  distortion  power  falling  in  the 
signal  band  when  the  signal  is  itself  a  flat  band  of  thermal  noise.  The 
technique  of  making  such  measurements  has  been  described  in  earlier  ar- 
ticles.^-^"^  Measurements  are  shown  for  quantizing  with  both  equal  and 
tapered  steps.  The  particular  taper  used  is  indicated  by  the  expandor 
characteristic  of  Fig.  9.    The  compression  curve  is  found  by  interchanging 


458 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


horizontal  and  vertical  scales.     The  measurements  were  made  on  a  quan- 
tizer with  32,  64,  and  128  steps,  and  a  sampHng  rate  of  8,000  cycles  per  sec- 


INPUT- SIGNAL   POWER    IN    DECIBELS    DOWN   ON   FULL    LOAD 
40  36  32  28  24  20  16  12  8  4 


Fig.  6 — Third  harmonic  in  64-step  quantized   output  with    bias  at  mid  tread, 
smooth  curves  represent  computed  values. 


The 


INPUT-SIGNAL    POWER    IN    DECIBELS   DOWN   ON    FULL    LOAD 
40  36  32  28  24  20  16  12  8  4  0 


^^-> 

> 

k                  Q- 

0  MEASURED    PEAKS 

1  MEASURED    NULLS 

'/ 

\f 

1 ' 

o 

1 
1 

u 

o 

o 

j-00 

1 

i-ooi 

[ 

I 

\    \ 

* 

_L 

i  t  i 

*    ♦ 

^     z 
o 

Q 
10    to 


20  Q? 


30 


a.  z 

OJ  UJ 

O  < 

a.  Q 

z 

U  =5 


40    Z 


50 


Fig.  7 — Third  harmonic  in  64-step  quantized  output   with    bias  at  mid-riser, 
smooth  curves  represent  computed  values. 


o  z 
2  O 
q: 
< 

I 


The 


ond.  The  applied  signal  was  confined  to  a  range  below  4,000  cycles  per 
second.  With  equal  steps  the  distortion  power  is  practically  independent 
of  load  as  shown  by  the  db-for-db  straight  lines.  With  tapered  steps,  the 
distortion  is  less  for  weak  signals,  and  only  slightly  greater  for  large  signals. 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS 


459 


The  vertical  line  designated  ''full  load  random  noise  input"  represents  the 
value  of  noise  signal  power  at  which  peaks  begin  to  exceed  the  quantizing 

NOISE   INPUT-SIGNAL    POWER   IN    DECIBELS    DOWN   ON   FULL-LOAD    SINE-WAVE 
48         44  40x         36  32  28  24  20  16  12  8  4  0 


Fig.  8 — Total  distortion  in  signal  band  from   quantizing  with  equal  and  tapered  steps. 


50 

/ 

40 
30 

/ 

/ 

/ 

o 
> 

/ 

z     to 

-I 
< 

\ 

H         0 

z 

lU 

t- 

O          ,,^ 

/ 

^ 

a  -'^ 

/ 

/ 

-20 

J 

/ 

-30 

-40 

/ 

-10       -8       -6        -4         -2  0  2  4  6  8  10 

POTENTIAL   IN    VOLTS 

Fig.  9 — Expanding  characteristic  applied  to  noise  in  tapered  steps  of  Fig.  (8). 


range.     This  occurs  when  the  rms  value  of  input  is  9  db  below  the  rms  value 
of  the  sine  wave  which  fully  loads  the  quantizer. 


4m 


BELL  SVSTBM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Flatness  of  the  distortion  spectrum  with  frequency  within  the  signal  band 
is  demonstrated  by  Fig.  10.  Two  kinds  of  input  were  used  here — a  flat 
band  of  thermal  noise  and  a  set  of  16  sine  waves  with  frequencies  distributed 
throughout  the  band.  Results  in  the  two  cases  were  practically  the  same. 
The  theoretical  levels  of  distortion  power  for  the  band  widths  of  the  measur- 
ing filters  (95  cps)  are  shown  by  the  horizontal  lines. 

In  the  experimental  results  given  here  use  has  been  made  of  laboratory 
studies  by  Messrs.  A.  E.  Johanson,  W.  A.  Klute,  and  L.  A.  Meacham. 


S    -25 

m 

o 

z   -30 


-35 


-40 


^   -50 

z 

w  -55 

UJ 

§-60 

2 


o 

MEASURED,  NOISE   LOADING 

THEORETICAL 

STEPS: 

b    . 

^ 

V 

Q 

9 

p       ^ 

^ 

X 

32 

o 

o        , 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0       o 

n 

n 

n 

o 

64 

o 

3           C 

o 

o 

o 

o 

,         0 

O 

n 

o       A        o 

o 

o 

128 

0.2     0.4      0.6      0.8      (.0       1.2       1.4       1.6       1.8     2.0      2.2      2.4     2.6      2.8 

MIDBAND    FREQUENCY  IN    KILOCYCLES  PER    SECOND 


3.0      3.2 


Fig.  10 — Spectral  density  of  distortion  in  signal  band  from  quantizing  and  sampling. 
The  quantizing  steps  were  equal  and  the  quantizer  was  fully  loaded  by  a  random  noise 
or  16- tone  input  signal  with  mean  power  =  —2.5  dbm. 

2.  Theoretical  Analysis 

The  correlation  theorem  discovered  by  N.  Wiener"  may  be  stated  as 
follows:  Let  xf/r  represent  the  average  value  of  the  product  I{t)I{t  +  r), 
where  /(/)  is  the  value  of  a  variable  such  as  current  or  voltage  at  time  ^, 
and  /(/  4-  t)  is  the  value  at  a  time  r  seconds  later.    Mathematically: 


yPr  =  /(/)/(/  -h  r) 


=  Lim 


r  Jo 


/(/)/(/  -h  t)  dt 


(2.0) 


From  analogy  with  statistical  theory,  ypr  is  called  the  correlation  of  /(/) 
with  itself,  or  the  autocorrelation  function  of  the  signal.  Since  we  shall  not 
deal  here  with  the  correlation  of  two  signals,  we  shall  shorten  our  terms  and 
call  ^r  simply  the  correlation  of  /(/).  Let  Wf  df  represent  the  mean  power  in 
the  output  of  an  ideal  bandpass  filter  of  width  df  centered  at/.  We  assume 
that  the  ideal  filter  is  designed  to  work  between  resistances  of  one  ohm  each 
and  that  the  input  signal  /(/)  is  delivered  to  the  filter  from  a  source  with 
internal  resistance  of  one  ohm.  (The  use  of  unit  resistances  does  not  re- 
strict the  generality  of  the  results,  since  equivalent  transmission  performance 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS 


461 


of  any  linear  electrical  circuit  is  obtained  by  multiplying  all  impedances  by 
a  constant  factor.  All  voltages  are  multiplied  and  all  currents  divided  by 
the  same  factor.    By  assuming  unit  values  of  resistance  we  are  able  to  use 


O10-5 
^        a 


1 

y 

/ 

- 

/ 

- 

/ 

r 

- 

/ 

/ 

- 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

- 

/ 

- 

/ 

- 

/ 

- 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

- 

/ 

/ 

/ 

0.9994     0.9995  0.9996         0.9997         0.9998  0.9999 

CORRELATION     FUNCTION    OF    SIGNAL  =  a 

Fig.  11 — Correlation  function  of  7-digit  quantizing  errors. 


squared  values  of  voltages  and  currents  to  represent  power.)     The  theorem 
states  that  w/  and  yp  are  related  by  the  equation: 


Wf 


^0 


yj/r  COS  l-wfr  dr 


(2.1) 


Proof  may  be  found  in  the  references  cited.  When  the  signal  contains  peri- 
odic components,  the  integral  in  (2.1)  becomes  divergent  in  the  ordinary  or 
Riemann  sense,  but  this  difficulty  may  be  overcome  by  either  applying  the 
theory  of  divergent  integrals  or  replacing  Riemann  by  Stieltjes  integration. 
We  shall  not  require  these  modifications  here  because  we  shall  base  our  analy- 
sis on  signals  with  a  continuous  spectrum.     We  note  that  ^o  is  the  mean 


462  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

square  value  of  the  signal  itself.  We  also  point  out  that  the  inversion  for- 
mula for  the  Fourier  integral  enables  us  to  express  yp^  in  terms  of  Wf  ,  thus: 

yj/r  =   \    Wf  cos  IwTfdf  (2.2) 

It  also  may  be  shown  that  the  ratio  ^t/^o  cannot  have  values  outside  the 
interval  from  —1  to  +1. 

The  correlation  theorem  furnishes  a  powerful  analytical  tool  for  the 
solution  of  modulation  problems  because  the  calculation  of  the  average  xf/r 
is  often  a  straightforward  process,  while  direct  calculation  of  Wf  may  be  a 
very  devious  one.  Once  \{/r  has  been  obtained,  Eq.  (2.1)  brings  the  highly 
developed  theory  of  Fourier  integrals  to  bear  on  the  computation  of  w/  . 

We  shall  give  the  derivation  of  Wf  for  quantizing  noise  making  use  of  the 
correlation  function.  In  the  analysis  we  shall  apply  a  number  of  other 
needed  theorems  with  appropriate  references  given  for  proof. 

Our  first  problem  is  that  of  calculating  the  spectrum  of  the  output  of  the 
staircase  transducer,  Fig.  1,  when  the  spectrum  of  the  input  signal  is  given. 
Let  Wf  represent  the  power  spectrum  of  the  input  signal  and  \f/r  the  auto- 
correlation function.  The  two  quantities  are  related  by  (2.1)  and  it  is 
sufficient  to  express  our  results  in  terms  of  either  one.  If  the  instantaneous 
value  of  the  input  signal  is  represented  by  Ei,  and  that  of  the  output  by 
£2,  the  staircase  function  may  be  defined  mathematically  by: 


(2.3) 


E2   =   mEq  , Eq   K  El   < Eq  , 

w  =  0,  =tl,  ±2,  ••• 
The  error  is  the  difference  between  Ei  and  £2  and  may  be  written  as 

e(l)  =  El  -  £2  =  £1  -  mEo ,      ^Jl^  E,  <  E,  <  ^JUlZLI  r,      (2.4) 

The  error  characteristic  is  plotted  in  Fig.  3. 

One  approach  depends  on  a  knowledge  of  the  probability  density  function 
p{V\j  V2)  of  the  variables  Vi  =  Ei  at  time  /  and  V2  =  £2  at  time  /  +  r. 
The  definition  of  this  function  is  th3itp{Vi,V2)  dVidV^  istheprobabiUty  that 
Vi  and  Vi  lie  in  a  rectangle  of  dimensions  dVi  and  ^1^2  centered  on  the 
point  V\,  V2  of  the  KiF2-plane.  The  function  p{Vi,V2)  has  been  calculated 
for  certain  types  of  signals  and  in  theory  could  be  computed  for  any  signal 
by  standard  methods.     If  it  is  assumed  known,  we  may  determine  the 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  463 

correlation  function  of  the  error.    Let 

F{]\  ,  ^2)  =  6(/)e(/  +  r)  =  (Fi  -  mEo)(V2  -  nEo), 

':^^«<^'^<'^'^-'^  (2.5) 

m,  w  =  0,  zb  1,  ±2,  •  •  • 

Eq.  (2.5)  defines  F{Vi,  V2)  as  a  definite  constant  value  in  each  square  of 
width  £0  in  the  F]  F2-plane.  By  elementary  statistical  theory,  the  correla- 
tion function  ^r  of  the  error  wave  is  now 

^r  =  F{y\7V^  =11    ^(^'1  ^  y^)P^y^ .  ^'2)  dV\  dV2  (2.6) 

J —  00  J —  00 

The  correlation  may  therefore  be  calculated  since  F  and  p  are  known 
functions.  The  power  spectrum  12/  of  the  error  wave  is  then  equal  to  the 
right-hand  member  of  (2.1)  with  ^t  substituted  for  xf/r. 

We  are  interested  in  the  case  in  which  the  signal  voltage  has  a  smoothly 
varying  spectrum  over  a  specified  band.  This  is  a  property  of  a  random 
noise  function  which  has  a  normal  distribution  of  instantaneous  voltages. 
The  two-dimensional  probability  density  function  of  such  a  wave  is  known^^^ 
It  is 


,,, .    ,.  .  1  [UVI  +  Vl)  -  2^.  Fi  F2l 


(2.7) 


By  inserting  this  value  and  that  of  F{Vi,  V2)  from  (2.5)  in  (2.6),  making  the 

change  of  variable: 

Vl  -  mEo  =  Eox/2] 

(2.8) 
F2  -  nEo    =  Eoy/2] 

and  adopting  the  notation, 

k  =  El/rPo,  a  =  h/^|^o,  G{a)  =  ^./i^o,  (2.9) 

we  obtain  the  following  integral  determining  ^r  , 

^,   ,  _  k^ 

^^""^       32^(1  -  a2)i/2 

11  .22  .  (2.10) 

f     f        n(       \  -k{x   +  y    -  2axy)   ,     , 

00    00 

H{x,  y)=    T,    T, 

~—  ^  (2.11) 

—  k\m^+mix—  ay)  +  w  -{-  n{y  —  ax)  —  lamn] 
'  ^""P  "  ~      2(1  -  a2) 


464  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  power  density  spectrum  of  the  errors  is,  from  (2.1), 
12/  =  4  /     ^r  cos  lirfr  dr 

=  ^0  [    G{a)  cos  ItJt  dr  (2.12) 

Jo 

If  the  signal  band  is  flat  from  /  =  0  to  /  =  /o,  with  no  energy  outside  this 
band, 

a  =  -  \     cos  l-KTjdf  =  / —  (2.13) 

Letting  y  =  ///o, 

a(7)  =  ^^^  =  -'  f "  G  ('^)  COS  T.  &,  (2.14) 


To  complete  the  calculation,  we  must  evaluate  the  integral  (2.10).  The 
first  step  is  to  transform  the  double  summation  (2.11)  into  products  of  single 
sums  by  the  change  of  indices: 

m'  +  n'\ 


m  = 


m  -{-  n  =  m\  /  2 

or  I  (2.15) 


m  —  n  =  n'  /  \  m—n 

n  = 


The  rearrangement  is  permissible  because  the  double  series  is  absolutely 
convergent.  The  new  indices  m'  and  n'  also  run  from  minus  to  plus  infinity, 
but  must  be  either  both  even  or  both  odd  because  m!  ±  n'  is  even.  On 
dropping  the  primes  after  the  substitution  is  completed,  we  find 

Tj(      \       v^           —k[2m{x  +  y)  +  Wl    v" 
H{x,  y)=  2L>   exp /\ 2^ 


w»=— 00  ~V-»-      \^  **/  n=— 00 


4(1  +  a) 
•  exp 


k[2n(x  -  y)  +  4n'\  ^   ^ 


'  exp 
•  exp 


4(1  -  a) 

-mm  +  1)(:^  +  y)  +  (2m  +  l)'^ 
4(1  +  a) 

-k[2n  +  l)(x  -  y)  +  Cln  +  1)'] 
4(1  -  a) 


(2.16) 


A  further  simplification  results  from  a  change  of  the  variables  of  integration 
to  eliminate  the  terms  in  xy.    This  is  done  by  setting 

/.=  «  +  A      ^    /.=  (.+.)/2\  ^^^^^ 

\y  —  u  —  v/  \v  =  {x—y)/2/ 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  465 

By  calculating  the  Jacobian  of  the  transformation,  we  find  dx  dy  =  2  du  dv. 
The  region  of  integration  in  the  uv-p\sine  is  a  rhombus  bounded  by  the  lines 
w  zfc  t)  =  rbl.     We  then  have: 


v') 


^(")  =  16.(1 -.Y/^  LI.  L.  -^^ + L '"  L  H  ^"'  - 

r     y^/    «^       ,       /     1  v'  -2mk{2u+2m) 

^^PL-iVrT-a  +  l^^g-o^P        4(1  +.) 

-^          -2»*(2s  +  2«,     ^          -(2ot+1)A(2m  +  2»j  +  1) 
„?„^^P       4(1  -  a)        +  J.^'^P 40+^^ 

t  -(2n  +  iy(>..  +  2«  +  l)     (,13) 

n=-oo  4(1    —  a) 

If  we  substitute  u  =  —  ic  in  the  first  double  integral,  m  =  —m'  in  the  first 
series,  and  m  =  —m!  —  1  in  the  third  series,  we  see  that  the  two  double 
integrals  are  equal.  We  therefore  drop  the  first  double  integral  and  multiply 
the  second  by  two.  The  inner  integral  may  then  be  split  into  parts  with 
limits  from  v  =  ^tov=\  —  u  and  v  =  u—  \tov  =  ^.  Substituting  v  =—y 
in  the  second  part  and  treating  the  series  as  before,  we  find  that  the  two  parts 
give  equal  contributions,  so  that  the  bracketed  integral  terms  become 


/.I  f'\—U 

\    du  \        dv 

Jo  Jo 


apphed  to  the  integrand. 

The  series  in  (2.18)  may  be  written  as  Theta  Functions,  and  the  imaginary 
transformation  of  Jacobi  then  used  as  an  aid  in  reduction.  We  may 
proceed  in  a  more  direct  manner,  however,  by  applying  Poisson's  Summation 
Formula  :^^ 

Z    vi2irn)  =  ^     t,     r  <fiir)e-'-'  dr  (2.19) 

n=— 00  ^TT  w»=— 00  •'—00 

We  thereby  show  that 

JO 

2    exp  [—am{x  +  2m)]  = 

Wl= — 00 

,    /tT      ax^lS  fl      1     O    V^     -m2/x22a   ^^^  fKirxl        .  . 

\     TT  ^  1  +  2  2^  e  cos  — -        (2.20) 

\   la  L  w.=i  I    J 

E   exp  [-fl(2w  +  l)(a:  +  2m  +  1)] 

m=— 00 

^  1      A  ^a..,4  [i  ^.  2  f;  (_  )•»«  -"•''^'^-  COS  "^'\  (2.21) 

2   \    a  L  »»=i  2    J 


466  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

When  the  series  in  (2.18)  of  type  corresponding  to  the  left-hand  members  of 
(2.20)  and  (2.21)  are  replaced  by  the  equivalent  righthand  members,  positive 
exponents  containing  the  squared  variables  of  integration  are  introduced 
which  cancel  the  negative  exponents  already  present  in  the  integrand.  The 
resulting  integral  may  be  written: 

G{a)  =^1\    du\        iu'-  /)[/i(l  +  a,  »)/.(!  -  a,  v) 

4  Jo         *'o 

+  M1  +  a,u)Ml  -  a,v)]dv,     (2.22) 
where 

/i(a,  o;)  =  1  +  2  2^  exp  — — —  cos  — -  (2.23) 

m=l  Zk  I 

00  2      2 

/2(a,  x)  =  1  +  2  2^  i-r  exp  — — —  cos  -—  (2.24) 

m=l  Zk  I 

The  integrations  may  now  be  performed  without  difficulty.  The  complete 
result,  which  as  we  shall  immediately  show  is  hardly  ever  necessary  to  use 
in  full  is: 


Cr{a)  =  -1  2  -„  exp  (  -    ^^  )  sin/2 


A    2     2 

4:n  IT  a 


-\r  -^1^  l^yrn  7^  n) —  exp 

A  /     2  2\     2  joooo  1 

.    ,  4(w    —  nW  a        «v^v^/        ^n  1 

s,n/, -  ^^  2  E  {m  ^  n)  ^^  _  ,^,  _  ^^  _  .^, 

exp  -^'^-'  -  ^)'  +  ^^  -  ^^'^'  sin/^  -^t^-  -  i^'  -  ^-  -  ^'^'- "    (2.25) 

An  alternative  derivation  of  (2.25),  subsequently  suggested  by  Mr.  S.  O. 
Rice,  is  based  on  the  fact  that  €(/)  as  defined  by  (2.4)  or  Fig.  3  is  a  periodic 
function  of  Ei  which  can  be  expanded  in  a  Fourier  series  with  period  Eq. 
Substituting  the  series  in  (2.5)  leads  to  an  expression  for  €(/)  e  {t  -\-  t)  as  the 
product  of  two  Fourier  series.  After  proof  that  it  is  permissible  to  write 
this  product  as  a  double  series  and  to  calculate  the  average  sum  as  the  sum 
of  the  averages  of  the  individual  terms  the  problem  is  reduced  to  a  double 
series  in  which  the  typical  term  is  proportional  to  the  average  value  of  exp 
i(uVi  +  VV2)  where  u  and  v  are  constants  depending  on  the  position  of  the 
term  in  the  series.  Rice  has  shown^^  ^^j^^t  the  average  value  of  such  a  term 
is  exp  [— (w^  +  :^)^o/2  —  uv\1/t\.  Summation  of  these  terms  leads  again 
to  (2.25). 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  467 

From  the  defining  equation  (2.9)  we  note  that  ^  is  a  small  quantity  when 
more  than  a  very  few  steps  are  used  in  the  quantizer  so  that  exponentials 
with  exponent  containing  the  factor  —1/k  are  very  small  except  when  the 
factor  is  multiplied  by  a  number  near  zero.  It  will  be  seen  that  this  can 
only  happen  in  the  first  series  and  then  only  when  a  approaches  the  value 
unity.  We  recall  that  a  lies  in  the  range  —  1  to  +1  and  it  is  apparent  from 
(2.25)  that  C{a)  is  an  odd  function  of  a.  We  thus  need  consider  only  posi- 
tive values  of  a  very  slightly  less  than  unity.  Only  the  component  of  the 
sin/?  with  positive  exponent  is  then  significant,  and  we  write  the  very 
accurate  approximation  for  G{a): 

G{a)  =  r-5  2^  -  exp — (2.26) 

ZTT^  n=l  fl'^  k 

A  typical  curve  of  G(a)  vs.  a  for  a  fixed  value  of  k  is  shown  in  Fig.  1 1 .  The 
rapidity  with  which  it  falls  away  at  the  left  of  the  point  «  =  1  is  such  that 
the  curve  can  only  be  plotted  by  greatly  expanding  the  scale  of  a  in  this 
region.  The  physical  significance  of  the  spike-shaped  curve  is  that  G{a) 
is  a  measure  of  the  correlation  of  the  errors  as  a  function  of  the  correlation 
of  the  applied  signal.  When  there  are  many  steps  there  is  virtually  no 
correlation  between  errors  in  successive  samples  except  when  there  is  com- 
plete correlation  of  successive  signal  values. 

Use  of  the  approximation  (2.26)  enables  us  to  derive  a  convenient  formula 
for  the  spectral  density  of  the  errors  in  a  flat  band  input  signal.  Sub- 
stituting (2.26)  in  (2.14)  we  obtain: 

«»« -  i  I  i  f  -p  [^  (^  -  ¥)]  -  -  ^^  (^-"^ 

The  integrand  is  negligible  except  when  s  is  near  zero,  and  in  this  region  we 
may  replace  (sin  z)/z  by  the  first  two  terms  of  its  power  series  expansion. 
We  then  find 

2 


flo(T)  -  — 3  X)  -  /     exp  (        ^l""  ^  )  cos  yz  dz 
~  lir^y   2'whn^^''^\^n^l^^)' 


0n\y  one  set  of  calculations  from  the  infinite  series  need  be  made  since  we 
may  define  a  function  of  one  variable 

oc       — 2/n2 

B{z)  =   Z  ^  .  (2.29) 

n=i     rr 

Then  _ 


468  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  curves  of  Fig.  (4)  were  obtained  in  this  way.  The  relation  between  k 
and  the  number  of  digits  N  is  based  on  the  assumption  of  the  rms  value  of 
signal  reaching  one-fourth  the  instantaneous  overload  voltage  of  the 
quantizer.  Since  zero  signal  voltage  is  in  the  middle  of  the  quantizing 
range  2^Eq  ,  the  overload  signal  measured  from  zero  is  2^"  Eq.  The  mean 
square  signal  input  is  \{/o .     Therefore 

l^'-'Eo  =  4v^o  (2.31) 

or  from  (2.9) 

k  =  1/4^-'  .  (2.32) 

We  thus  have  obtained  the  spectrum  of  the  quantizing  errors  without 
sampling.  To  apply  our  results  to  the  sampling  case  we  sum  up  all  con- 
tributions from  each  harmonic  of  the  sampling  rate  beating  with  the  noise 
spectrum  from  quantizing  only.     The  resulting  power  spectrum  is  given  by 

00 

^/    =    fi/   +     Z    (fin/,-/    +   fin/,+/),  0    <f   <fs/2.  (2.33) 

If  y  is  the  ratio  of  sampling  frequency  to  signal  band  width  and  ^o(y)  is  the 
ratio  of  quantizing  power  received  in  the  signal  band  to  the  applied  signal 
power, 


Aoiy)  =  fio(l)  +  Z  Mny  +  D  +  ^o(ny  -  1)].  (2.34) 

n  =  l 

This  is  the  equation  used  in  calculating  the  curves  of  Fig.  (5). 

APPENDIX  I 

Relation  Between  Mean  Squares  of  Signal  and  Its  Samples 

We  have  already  shown  that  there  is  a  unique  relationship  between  a 
signal  occupying  the  band  of  all  frequencies  less  than  fc ,  and  the  sampled 
values  of  the  signal  taken  at  a  rate/«  =  2fc .  If  we  are  given  the  signal  wave, 
we  can  obviously  determine  the  samples;  and  if  we  are  given  the  samples, 
we  can  determine  the  signal  wave  since  it  is  the  response  of  an  ideal  low-pass 
filter  of  cutoff  frequency  fc  to  unit  impulses  multiplied  by  the  samples.  If 
we  apply  samples  of  a  signal  containing  components  of  frequency  greater 
than  fc ,  the  output  of  the  filter  is  a  new  signal  with  frequencies  confined  to 
the  band  from  zero  to  fc  and  yielding  the  same  sampled  values  as  the  original 
wideband  signal. 

We  now  consider  the  problem  of  determining  the  mean  square  value  of  the 
samples  of  an  arbitrary  function /(O-  Let  the  samples  be  taken  at  /  = 
wr,  «  =  0,  ±  1,  db  2,    •  •  ,  where  T  =  1/2/.  =  \/f, . 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  469 

We  may  write  an  expression  for  the  squared  samples  as  a  limit  of  the 
product  of  the  squared  signal  and  a  periodic  switching  function  of  infinitesi- 
mal contact  time,  thus 

/(«/o)  =  Lim/(/)5(r,  /)  (I— 1) 

T-»0 

where: 

/I,      -r/1  <t  <  r/2       \ 
S{r,  0  =  (1-2) 

\0,     r/2  <  /  <  r  -  t/2/ 

S(t,  t+T)  =  S(t,  /),  w  =  0,  d=  1,  =t  2,  . .  •  (1—3) 

By  straightforward  Fourier  series  expansion: 

Sir,  0  =  ;  +  t  l^^L^^^Il/I  COS  2m.f.  I.  (1-4) 


mir 


The  mean  square  value  of  the  samples  is  the  limit  of  the  average  value  of 
pS  taken  over  the  contact  intervals  of  duration  r.  The  average  value  of 
pS  taken  over  all  time,  including  the  blank  intervals,  is  in  the  limit  a  fraction 
t/T  of  the  average  over  the  contact  intervals  only.    Therefore 


f{nk)  =Um-f{t)S{T,t) 

T— 0     T 

=  Lim  fit)  +  ±  ^^'^'"^'/T  fQ)  eo3  2m^f,  t  (1-5) 

T-»0  TO=1  tniTT 

=  m+Limt  ^^''""""'^^  fit)  cos  Imrf.i. 
T-*o  m=i  tmrr 

Now  the  long  time  average  value  oip{t)  cos  Irmrfst  must  vanish  unless /^(O 
contains  a  component  of  frequency  mfa  .  This  could  not  happen  except 
where /(/)  itself  contains  a  component  of  frequency  mfs/2  or  two  components 
/i  and/2  such  that 

|/i±/2|  =  m/«  (I--6) 

WTien  no  such  relation  of  dependency  exists: 


fink)  =  fit).  (1-7) 

As  pointed  out  before  if  /(/)  contains  no  frequencies  above  fc ,  the  response 
of  the  ideal  low-pass  filter  to  the  samples  is/(0,  and/(w/o)  represents  the 
samples  of f(t).  If/(/)  does  contain  frequencies  exceeding/c ,  the  response  of 
the  filter  is  <j>{t),  where  </>(/)  is  wholly  confined  to  the  band  0  to  fc  and  yields 
the  same  samples  as/(0,  i-c, 

<f>{nto)  =  /(«/o),  »  =  0,  ±1,  ±2,  •  •  •  (1—8) 


470  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Eq.  (I — 7)  applied  to  0(/)  gives  the  result: 


<f>\nto)  =  At).  (1—9) 

By  combining  (I — 8)  and  (I — 9),  we  obtain 


AnQ  =  <f>V).  (I-IO) 

APPENDIX  II 

Fundamental  Theorem  on  Aperture  Effect  in  Sampling 

If  we  sample  the  wave  Q  cos  gt  at  a  rate/s ,  and  multiply  each  sample  by 
a  short  rectangular  pulse  of  unit  height  and  duration  r  centered  at  the 
sampling  instants,  we  obtain  by  reference  to  Eq.  (1-4)  replacing  lirfs  by 


F{t)  =  Q  cos  qt  S{t,  t)  =  ^Q  cos  qt 

-\-  QZl [co3  {mcos  +  q)^  +  cos  (mcos  —  q)t]. 

m=l  miT     ■ 

The  fact  that  pulse  modulation  is  similar  to  the  more  familiar  carrier 
modulation  processes  is  brought  out  by  this  equation;  the  sampling  frequency 
is  in  fact  the  carrier.  The  writer  has  found  that  the  method  of  calculation 
he  published  in  1933/^  in  which  the  signal  and  carrier  frequencies  are  taken 
as  independent  variables,  is  ideally  suited  for  calculations  of  pulse-modulated 
spectra.  Artificial  and  cumbersome  devices  such  as  assuming  the  signal 
and  sampling  frequencies  to  be  harmonics  of  a  common  frequency  are  thereby 
avoided. 
A  unit  impulse  5(/)  has  zero  duration  and  unit  area;  hence  we  may  write: 

b{t)  =  Lim  "^^  .  (II— 2) 

T-»o        r 

A  train  of  samples  in  which  each  sample  is  multiplied  by  a  unit  impulse 
may  therefore  be  written  as 

5Z    Q  cos  qth{t  —  tn)  =  Lim    ^  cos  ql 

+  (?^  ^ [cos  (mcos  +  ql)  +  cos  {mcos  —  q)i\    . 

m=l  WTTT  J 

Suppose  we  apply  the  train  of  waves  (II-3)  to  a  linear  electrical  network 
which  delivers  the  response  g{t)  when  the  input  is  a  unit  impulse  5(/).  The 
steady  state  admittance  of  the  network  is  given  by. 

YoM  =    f    giOe-'-''  dt  (II— 4) 

J— 00 


(II-3) 


SPECTRA  OF  QUANTIZED  SIGNALS  471 

and  the  response  of  the  network  to  (II-3)  is  therefore: 
/(/)    =  I  I  YSq)  I  cos  f^^  +  ph  \\{iq)] 

+  ^  Z)  (I  Fo(2wco«  +  iq)  I  cos  [{mo3s  +  q)t  (TI— 5) 

+  ph  Yoiimcos  +  ^'9)]  +  I  Yoiimojs  —  iq)  \  cos  [(/mo^  —  9)/ 
+  ph  Yoiimojs  —  iq)]). 

But  /(/)  evidently  represents  a  train  of  pulses  in  which  the  pulse  occurring 
at  /  =  iiT  is  equal  to  the  nth  sample  multiplied  by  g{t  —  nT) .  We  have  thus 
obtained  the  spectrum  of  a  set  of  samples  in  which  the  pulse  representing  a 
unit  sample  is  the  generalized  wave  form  g{t).  Furthermore  if  the  signal 
frequency  q  is  less  than  00^2,  an  ideal  low-pass  filter  with  cutoff  at  03s/2 
responds  only  to  the  first  component  of  (II — 5). 

The  ''aperture  effect"  or  variation  of  transfer  admittance  with  signal 
frequency  is  thus  given  by 

Y{iq)  =  ^  YSq)  =  fs  YoUq).  (11-^) 

This  is  Theorem  11.  Since  the  system  is  linear  when  the  signal  frequency 
does  not  exceed  half  the  sampling  frequency,  the  principle  of  superposition 
may  be  applied  to  composite  signals.  In  the  case  of  distortion  from  quantiz- 
ing errors  the  aperture  effect  applies  to  the  error  component  delivered  by  the 
low-pass  output  filter.  For  an  imperfect  low-pass  filter  in  the  output  we 
multiply  the  aperture  admittance  function  by  the  actual  transfer  admittance 
of  the  filter. 

A  theorem  equivalent  to  the  above  has  been  derived  by  a  different  method 
in  a  recent  paper^*  published  after  completion  of  the  above  work. 

REFERENCES 

1.  W.  R.  Bennett,  Time  Division  Multiplex  Systems,  Bell  Sys.  Tech.  Jmir.,  Vol.  18,  pp. 

1-31;  Jan.  1939. 

2.  H.  S.  Black,  Pulse  Code  Modulation,  Bell  Lab.  Record,  Vol.  25,  pp.  265-269;  July,  1947. 

3.  VV.  M.  Goodall,  Telephony  by  Pulse  Code  Modulation,  Bell  Sys.  Tech.  Jour.,  Vol. 

26,  pp.  395-409;  July,  1947. 

4.  D.  D.  Grieg,  Pulse  Count  Modulation  System,  Tele-Tech.,  Vol.  6,  pp.  48-50,  98;  Sept. 

1947;  also  Elect.  Comm.,  Vol.  24,  pp.  287-296;  Sept.  1947. 

5.  A.  G.  Clavier,  P.  F.  Panter,  and  D.  D.  Grieg,  PCM  Distortion  Analysis,  Elec.  Engg., 

Vol.  66,  pp.  1110-1122;  Nov.  1947. 

6.  H.  S.  Black  and  J.  O.  Edson,  PCM  Equipment,  Elec.  Engg.,  Vol.  66,  pp.  1123-1125; 

Nov.  1947. 

7.  L.  A.  Meacham  and  E.  Peterson,  An  Experimental  Pulse  Code  Modulation  System  of 

Toll  Quality,  Bell  Sys.  Tech.  Jour.,  Vol.  27,  pp.  1-43;  Jan.,  1948. 

8.  H.  Nyquist,  Certain  Topics  in  Telegraph  Transmission  Theory,  A.  I.  E.  E.  Trans  , 

pp.  617-644;  April,  1928. 

9.  E.  Peterson,  Gas  Tube  Noise  Generator  for  Circuit  Testing,  Bdl  Lab.  Record,  Vol. 

18,  pp.  81-83;  Nov.  1939. 


472  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

10.  W.  R.  Bennett,  Cross-Modulation  in  Multichannel  Amplifiers,  Bell  Sys.  Tech.  JL, 

Vol.  19,  pp.  587-610;  Oct.  1940. 

11.  N.  Wiener,  Generalized  Harmonic  Analysis,  Acta.  Math.,  Vol.  55,  pp.  177-258;  1930. 

12.  S.  O.  Rice,  Mathematical  Analysis  of  Random  Noise,  Bell  Sys.  Tech.  Jour.,  Vol.  24, 

p.  50;  Jan.  1945. 

13.  R.  Courant  and  D.  Hilbert,  Methoden  der  Mathematischen  Physik,  Vol.  1,  p.  64; 

Berlin,  1931. 

14.  W.  R.  Bennett,  New  Results  in  the  Calculation  of  Modulation  Products,  Bell  Sys. 

Tech.  Jour.  Vol.  12,  pp.  228-243;  April  1933. 

15.  G.  A.  Campbell,  The  Practical  Application  of  the  Fourier  Integral,  Bell  Sys.  Tech. 

Jour.,  Vol.  7,  pp.  639-707;  Oct.  1928. 

16.  S.  C.  Kleene,  Analysis  of  Lengthening  of  Modulated  Repetitive  Pulses,  Froc.  L  R.  E., 

Vol.  35,  pp.  1049-1053;  1947. 


Analysis  and  Performance  of  Waveguide-Hybrid  Rings 
for  Microwaves 

By  H.  T.  BUPENBOM 

This  paper  presents  an  analytical  treatment  of  waveguide  hybrid  rings  for 
microwaves,  considered  as  re-entrant  transmission  lines.  The  resulting  lines 
are  transformed  into  equivalent  "T"  or  "lattice"  network  sections,  and  deter- 
minantal  methods  are  applied  in  analyzing  these  equivalent  network  assemblies 
for  their  transmission  properties.  Some  experimental  results  obtained  from  a 
carefully  constructed  sample  of  each  of  two  specific  types  are  given.  A  satis- 
factory agreement  is  obtained  between  the  values  predicted  by  theory  and 
experimental  results. 

Introduction 

TN  A  recent  paper^,  Mr.  W.  A.  Tyrrell  has  described  two  general  types  of 
-^  waveguide  or  waveguide/coaxial  structures  whose  properties  include 
bridge  or  null  balance  characteristics  analogous  to  those  of  the  hybrid  coil 
common  in  voice-frequency  communication  practice.  One  type,  the  hy- 
brid junction,  is  a  particular  orthogonal  junction  of  four  rectangular  wave- 
guides. Certain  properties  of  the  hybrid  junction,  notably  its  impedance 
characteristics,  have  been  the  subject  of  a  British  publication^.  The  present 
paper  presents  a  method  for  detailed  analysis  of  the  other  general  struc- 
ture described  by  Tyrrell,  the  hybrid  ring.  This  latter  structure  is  essen- 
tially an  annular  ring  or  annulus  of  waveguide,  at  present  usually  an  in- 
tegral number  of  quarter  wavelengths  in  circumference,  and  fitted  with  an 
appropriate  number  of  series  or  shunt  branch  taps.  In  this  article,  phrases 
such  as  "quarter  wavelength,"  etc.,  describing  tap  spacing  or  mean  annulus 
perimeter,  refer  to  wavelength  in  the  guide,  not  to  free  space  wavelength. 

The  method  of  analysis  employed  herein  is  essentially  to  treat  the  tapped 
annulus  as  a  re-entrant  transmission  Hne.  Certain  circuit  equivalences  and 
quarter  wave  impedance  transformations  were  used  by  Tyrrell  in  his  paper 
to  develop,  with  the  aid  of  the  reciprocity  theorem,  many  basic  properties 
of  hybrid  circles  and  hybrid  junctions.  In  the  present  paper  "T"  or  "lat- 
tice" equivalents  (neglecting  dissipation)  are  developed  for  each  section  of 
the  annulus,  and  the  method  of  determinants  is  applied. 

The  hybrid  junction  (known  also  as  the  "magic  tee")  came  into  use  in  the 
newer  radars  in  the  latter  part  of  the  war.    One  of  its  uses,  that  of  providing 

1  "Hybrid  Circuits  for  Microwaves,"  W.  A.  Tyrrell,  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  November  1947. 

2  "The  Theory  and  Experimental  Behaviour  of  Right-Angled  Junctions  in  Rectangular- 
Section  Wave  Guides,"  /.  E.  E.  Jour.,  September  1946,  p.  177. 

473 


474 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


as  outputs  the  sum  and  the  difference  of  two  input  voltages*,  is  shown  on 
Fig.  1.  Matching  stubs  at  the  crossing,  as  indicated,  are  required  to  re- 
duce standing  waves  to  a  reasonable  value.  The  corresponding  type  of 
hybrid  ring  for  providing  sum  and  difference  outputs  is  likewise  shown,  to- 


OUTPUT    E1-E2 


INPUT    E2 


OUTPUT    E,  +  E2 


HYBRID    JUNCTION 


INPUT  E 


NPUT    E2  SECTION    VIEW 


OUTPUT  E1+E2  HYBRID     CIRCLE     OR    RING 

Fig.  1 — Hybrid  junction  and  hybrid  circle  or  ring. 


gether  with  a  diagram  dimensioned  in  terms  of  wavelength.  Since  the  path 
lengths  from  each  input  to  the  output  between  them  are  equal,  this  output 
gives  their  sum;  the  path  lengths  to  the  remaining  outputs  differ  by  one  half 
wavelength,  consequently  this  output  feeds  out  the  difference  of  the  two  in- 

*  More  exactly,  of  two  ini)ul  jx)wers. 


WAVEGUIDE  HYBRID  RINGS  FOR  MICROWAVES  475 

puts.  No  matching  stubs  are  required  to  achieve  a  fairly  good  standing 
wave  ratio;  however,  the  bandwidth  over  which  the  ring  operates  differen- 
tially is  inherently  narrower  than  that  of  the  junction.  The  rings  have  con- 
siderably higher  power  capacity. 

The  use  of  hybrids,  both  junctions  and  circles,  has  been  noted,  as  applied 
to  both  duplexer  and  mixer  design^. 

There  follows  a  circuit  analysis  of  hybrid  rings,  primarily  of  the  series 
type.  The  method  used  is  to  consider  the  annulus  as  a  continuous  Hne 
closed  on  itself.  The  sections  between  series  taps  are  then  treated  as  being 
made  up  of  integral  single  or  multiple  quarter  wave  line  sections.  Equiv- 
alent T  or  lattice  sections  are  derived  for  1,  2,  3,  and  4  quarter-wavelength 
sections,  ignoring  line  dissipation.  These  equivalences  are  used  to  draw 
equivalent  mesh  networks.  The  mesh  networks  are  then  solved  by  deter- 
minantal  methods.  To  study  some  effects  of  frequency  shift  off  the  design 
center,  where  the  mean  periphery  of  the  ring  departs  from  an  exact  integral 
number  of  quarter-wavelengths,  the  increments  in  the  element  values  for  a 
quarter-wave  equivalent  T  section  are  calculated  and  utilized.  The  ex- 
ample studied  is  a  ring  of  1|  X  mean  perimeter  with  3  and  4  taps. 

The  general  procedure  neglects  possible  fringing  effects  at  the  junctions. 
It  also  neglects  the  fact  that  each  tap  embraces  a  length  of  ring  which  is  dis- 
tinctly more  than  a  small  fraction  of  a  wavelength.  Nevertheless,  the  re- 
sults appear  in  every  case  to  give  a  good  first  approximation.  The  writer  is 
indebted  to  Messrs.  J.  T.  Caulfield  and  J.  F.  P.  Martin  for  checking  the  cal- 
culations. 

Throughout  the  analysis  Zo  represents  guide  impedance  and  Z  represents 
annulus  impedance.  It  will  be  noted  that  the  analytical  match  condition 
listed  is  \/2  Z  =  Zo  for  the  1 J  X  rings. 

The  variation  of  the  method  necessary  to  treat  the  case  of  shunt  taps  is 
indicated. 

I.  Circuit  Analysis 

The  rings  studied  herein  are  of  the  series  type.  This  type  is  the  one  which 
results  when  waveguide  is  bent  in  the  H  plane,  into  a  circle,  and  tap  connec- 
tions are  made  to  the  broad  outer  face.  This  type  of  ring  is  used,  for  ex- 
ample, in  the  "rat  race"  plumbing. 

Such  rings  may  be  considered  on  the  basis  that  the  annular  slot  is  a  trans- 
mission line,  whose  characteristic  impedance  will  here  be  called  Z  and  propa- 

3E.  G.  Schneider,  Proc.  I.  R.  E., — August  1946,  p.  528  et  seq. — see  page  550  ct  seq. 
and  Figs.  40,  42  and  47. 


476 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


gation  constant  P.  The  transmission  line  is  closed  upon  itself.  Series  con- 
nections are  made  by  the  waveguide  connections.  The  waveguide  outlets 
are  assumed,  by  virtue  of  their  lengths  and/or  terminations,  to  present  wave- 


Zo 

Zo 

— VW 

Zo 

WV — 

Zo 

WV — 

' — Wv/ — 

Z;Pl, 

Z;Pl2 

z;Pi3 

Z;Pln 

Fig.  2a — Series  type  hybrid  ring  as  re-entrant  transmission  line. 


Z   TANH  ^ 
o \^A^ 


Z  TANH  ^ 


AAAr 


SINH  PI 


WHICH    FOR    A 

LOSS-FREE 

LINE   IS: 


+  jZTAN^  +jZTAN^ 

AA/W — I WV-^^ 


-jz 


jSINBl       SINBl 


Fig.  2b — T  Network  equivalent  to  a  line  section. 


° WV 

+  jz 


AAA/ — ° 
-^jz 


iZ 


-  A 


3A 


o WV 

-JZ 


A/V\ o 

-jz 


•+iZ 


LENGTH  = /I 


^     DERIVED    FROM    EQUIVALENT   LATTICE 

Fig.  2c — Networks  equivalent  to  particular  lengths  of  loss — free  line. 

*  For  this  case  the  T  becomes  indeterminate.  However,  the  needed  equivalence  can  be 
proved  by  using  the  equivalent  lattice.  If  we  call  Za  and  Zb  the  respective  series  and 
shunt  arms  of  the  T,  then  the  equivalent  lattice  has  series  arms  =  Za  and  diagonal  arms 
Za  +  2Zb  . 


guide  characteristic  impedance  to  the  ring;  this  will  herein  be  called  Zq. 
Diagrammatically,  the  situation  is  as  in  Fig.  2a.  In  the  course  of  the  fol- 
lowing, the  line  sections  will  be  replaced  by  equivalent  networks,  assumed 
non-dissipative. 


WAVEGUIDE  HYBRID  RINGS  FOR  MICROWAVES  477 

II.  Equivalent  Line  Sections 

The  first  method  following  evaluates  the  line  sections  between  outlets. 
The  second  views  each  line  section  as  made  up  of  the  necessary  number  of 
quarter-wave  sections,  each  represented  by  its  equivalent  T. 

Method  1 — The  equivalent  T  for  a  recurrent  structure'^  of  constants  Z 
(characteristic  impedance)  and  P  {  =  A  -f  jB)  propagation  constant  per 
unit  length  is  as  shown  in  Fig.  2b. 

There  result  the  equivalences  sketched  in  Fig.  2c. 

Once  the  circuit  is  diagrammed  using  the  above  equivalences,  it  can  be 
reduced  to  simpler  form  by  successive  combinations  of  Ts,  by  well  known 
formulae. 

Method  2 — Determinants.  We  now  consider  the  line  to  be  made  up  of  the 
appropriate  number  of  quarter-wave  sections,  with  series  taps.  Thus  we 
will  have  Fig.  3. 

The  shunt  impedances  are  identical;  call  each  F.  The  series  impedances 
are  made  identical  by  first  assuming  a  tap  at  each  quarter-wave  junction; 


Fig.  3— Re-entrant  line  as  succession  of  equivalent  (quarter  wave)  T  networks  and 
series  taps. 

call  each  series  leg  5.     Then  the  (skew  symmetrical)  circuit  determinant 
for  the  case  where  N  =  10,  (or  a  2|  wavelength  ring)  is 


Z>i 


Now,  for  the  case  of  an  exact  integral  number  of  quarter  wavelengths 

around  the  ring,  all  W-n  =  -j^  and  all  5i_n  =  /^o  +  2jZ,  so  all  5  +  2F  = 

Zo. 

"K.    S.    Johnson,    "Transmission    Circuits   for   Telephone    Communication"     Book 
published  by  D  Van  Nostrand  Co.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


(5+2F) 

-Y          0 

0           0           0           0 

0           0        -F 

-Y  (5-f2F)    -F 

0           0           0           0 

0           0           0 

0 

-F  (5-H2F) 

-F          0           0           0 

0           0           0 

0 

0        -F  (5+2F)    -F          0           0 

0           0           0 

0 

0           0 

-F  (5+2F)    -F          0 

0            0           0 

II— 

0 

0           0 

0        -F  (S-\-2Y)    -Y 

0           0           0 

2.1 

0 

0           0 

0           0        -F  (5-f2F) 

-F          0           0 

0 

0           0 

0           0           0        -F   (5-f-2F)    -F          0 

0 

0           0 

0           0           0           0 

-F  (S+2Y)    -F 

-Y 

0           0 

0           0           0           0 

0        -F  (S-\-2Y) 

478 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JqURNAL 


The  determinant  then  becomes 


Du  = 


0         0 
0         0 
-\-jZ      Zo    +jZ      0 
0      -\-jZ      Zo    +jZ 
0 


Zo     +jZ       0 
+JZ       Zo     +jZ 
0  "^       " 

0 
0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 


0 
0 
0 
0 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


0 
0 
0 
0 

Zo_    +jZ 
jZ       Zo 
0 
0 
0 
0 


0          0          0  +jZ 

0          0          0  0 

0          0          0  0 

0          0          0  0 

0          0          0  0 

+  iz     0       0  0 

+  jZ       Zo  +jZ       0  0 

0       +jZ       Zo     +jZ  0 

0       0  +yz     Zo  +jz 

0          0          0       +iZ  Zo 


For  a  IJ  X  ring,  n  =  6  and  the  system  shrinks  to 


Zo 

+iz 

0 
0 
0 

+jz 


+jz 

Zo 
+JZ 
0 
0 
0 


0 

+iz 

Zo 

+iz 

0 
0 


0 
0 

+jz 

Zo 

+jz 

0 


0 

+JZ 

0 

0 

0 

0 

+.;z 

0 

Zo 

+.;z 

+jz 

Zo 

El 
E, 
Es 
Es 

£6 

£7 

£9 

-Elo 


II 

2.2 


II— 2.3 


For  the  study  of  the  effects  occurring  if  we  move  off  the  design  center, 
we  can  modify  the  individual  Ts  to  a  length  t  =  -  ±  —  .     Each  series  arm. 


assuming  no  Hne  dissipation,  and  N  large  so—  «  X,  is: 


'-4?(l)]-^"[l(i4) 


=  jZ  tan 


TT  TT 

In 


^    y  1  rb  tan  tt/N 
~  ^     1  =F  tan  tt/N 


JZ{1  ±  27r/iV)  =  JZ{1  =h  A) 


II— 2.4 


Similarly,  each  shunt  arm  is: 
Z  Z 


'■-[i'<'']"'-'»[?(j'4)]"-»b-s] 


-jz  .       -jz 


.     TT        Itt       cos  a        1  -  AV2 

Sm  ;r-  003  -f 

2         iV 


^   -iZ 


II— 2.5 


-jZ 


So  the  shunt  arm  is,  to  a  first  approximation,  not  affected  by  a  small  shift 
off  design  center.     Our  shunts  Y  thus  remain  —jZ  and 


5  +  2F  =  Zo  +  2jZ  zL  2jAZ  -  2jZ  =  Zo  ±  2jAZ. 


WAVEGUIDE  HYBRID  RINGS  FOR  MICROWAVES 


479 


Therefore,  determinants  II — 2.2  and  II — 2.3  can  be  used  by  merely  consider- 
ing Zo  +  J2AZ  as  a  special  value  of  Zq. 

As  is  well  known,"' '^  the  current  solutions  are  obtained  by  writing  in  an 
external  column  the  driving  voltages,  opposite  their  associated  meshes, 
as  is  done  at  the  right  of  II — 2.2.  In  the  present  case  the  number  of  driving 
voltages  is  usually  one,  never  more  than  two;  so  the  column  will  be  zeros, 
save  for  one  (or  two)  meshes.  The  current  in  any  mesh  is  a  fraction  having 
D  as  denominator,  and  as  numerator  the  minor  formed  from  D  by  substitut- 


Z:Pl 


Zo      Z;Pi; 


z;PL. 


Zo 


z;Pin 


Fig.  4a — Re-entrant  line  with  shunt  taps. 


Fig.  4b — Re-entrant  line  with  shunt  taps— T  networks  as  line  equivalents. 


AVv — I — VW 


2Zr 


(4). 

Fig.  4c — Element  ty-pical  single  shunt  tapped  section. 


ing  the  e.m.f.  column  in  the  column  corresponding  to  the  mesh  where  the 
current  is  desired,  i.e.,  column  n  if  h  is  desired. 

Since  D  is  common  to  all  mesh  current  expressions,  questions  of  relative 
power  division  between  branches  or  of  null  balance  can  be  handled  by 
operations  performed  entirely  with  the  numerator  minors. 

Some  slight  advantage  in  evaluating  the  numerator  minors  is  gained  by 
proceeding  where  possible  so  as  to  make  /i  or  In  the  desired  current. 

5  E.  A.  Guillemin,  ''Communication  Networks,"  Vols.  I  and  II.  Books  published  by 
John  Wilev  and  Sons  Inc.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

«L.  Silberstein,  "Synopsis  of  Applicable  Mathematics."  Book  published  by  D. 
Van  Nostrand  Co.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


4S0 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Alternatively,  meshes  where  Zo  =   0  can  be  chosen.     Another  needed 

quantity  is  driving  point  impedance.     Since  h  =  ^  ,  then  —  = 

D  Zd.p. 


-r  and  Zdp  =  -j- 
D  dn 


The  resulting  impedance  will  include  an  extra  Zo  ,  the 


generator  impedance,  to  which  we  must  match. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  show  how  the  reentrant  transmission  line  analysis 
can  be  extended  to  the  case  of  hybrid  rings  involving  shunt  taps.  For  the 
reiterative  shunt  case  wx  have  the  conditions  illustrated  in  Fig.  4a.  With 
substitution  of  quarter-wave  equivalences  Fig.  4a  becomes  Fig.  4b.  Clearly 
determinants  analogous  to  II — 2.1  et  seq.  can  be  written  for  this  structure. 
Alternatively  we  can  split  each  Zo  into  two  parallel  impedances,  each  2Zo , 
yielding  a  typical  symmetrical  section  which  can  be  reduced  to  a  simple 
r  or  TT  by  well  know^n  transformation  methods^  as  shown  in  Fig.  4c. 


^-. 


Fig.  5 — \]/2  X  ring — ^3  arm— equivalent  mesh  circuit. 

III.  Detailed  Analysis  of  Specific  Cases  of  Series  Type  Rings 

Case  A.     7J  X  Ring — 3  Arm — As  Power  Divider — Two  Way 

This  is  most  simply  analyzed  using  equivalents  from  Method  1.    The 
equivalent  circuit  is  shown  in  Fig.  5.     It  is  immediately  clear  that: 

a.  Power  fed  in  at  5  will  divide  equally  between  Ei  and  £2 . 

b.  Although  El  and  E2  are  in  proper  wavelength  relationship  for  isolation 

relative  to  each  other,  they  are  effectively  in  series  and  there  will 
not  be  cancellation.     The  particular  wavelength  spacing  is  thus  a 
necessary  but  not  sufficient  condition. 
With  a  voltage  E  at  (5)  we  will  have 

E  =  hZo  -  l2i-2jZ) 

0  =  -h{-2jZ)  +  /2(2Zo) 


c. 


or 


Zo 


-^2j2 


+2jZ 


2Zo 


III— 1 


*  loc.  cit.  page  282. 


WAVEGUIDE  HYBRID  RINGS  FOR  MICROWAVES 


481 


so 


/l 

2Zo 

E 

2Zl  +  4Z 

2 

at  5  is 

Zl  +  2Z' 
Zo 

=  Zo  + 

2Z' 

^0  " 

and  the  mesh  impedance  at  S  is 


Therefore  an  impedance  match  is  secured  if 

V2Z  =  Zo.  III- 

d.  For  a  voltage  e  slI  Ei ,  the  current  at  E2  may  be  obtained  from 

2Zo  -27Z 

-2iZ  Zo 


and   is 


eZo 


m— 3 


2Zo  +  4Z'  • 

Under  the  impedance  match  condition  -\/2Z  =  Zo ,  this  is  e/4Zo  which  is 
just  half  the  current  which  could  be  drawn  through  a  load  Zo  connected  to  a 
source  Zo  with  internal  voltage  e.  Therefore,  the  ''loss"  from  jEi  to  E2 
is  6  db. 

Case  B.     1\\  Ring — 4  Arms — As  Power  Divider  and  Null  Device 

As  power  divider — Two  Way  (Fig.  6).  Using  the  determinantal  method, 
let  £1  be  in  mesh  1.  Then  D  is  in  mesh  4,  E2  in  mesh  5  and  5  in  mesh  6. 
Zo  =  0  for  meshes  2  and  3.  Then  the  determinant  of  II — 2.3  and  its  minor 
for  mesh  5  (£2  in  Fig.  6)  with  voltage  apphed  at  Ei  ,  are  respectively,  from 
II— 2.3: 


III— 3 


D',= 

Zo. 

0 

0 

0 

+JZ 

+iz 

0 
0 
0 

0      0      0 

-\-jz          0     0 

0_    +iZ     0. 

+jZ             Zo     +jZ 

0      -hjZ             Zo 

0      0     +jZ 

0 
0 

and 

d',= 

0 
0 

-hjz 

0 

0 
0 

-\-jz           0 
0  _    +iz 

+jZ               Zo 
0      +jZ 

0    +yz 

0 
0 
0 

III— 4 


Upon  expansion  ^5  is  found  to  be  0.     Therefore,  by  adding  outlet  Z>,  we 
have  isolated  branch  Ei  from  branch  E^  .     (Compare  with  case  A.)     Since 


482 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


it  is  well  known  for  this  structure  that  D  is  isolated  from  input  at  S,  it  must 
follow  that  an  input  at  S  will  still  divide  equally  betwen  Ei  and  £2  . 

As  Null  Device  (iJX — 4  Arms).     We  now  associate  6"  with  mesh  1,  Ei 
with  mesh  2,  D  with  mesh  5,  E2  with  mesh  6  (see  Fig.  7)  which  leads  to: 


De  = 


Zo      +jZ 
+jZ               Zo 

0     +iz 
0     0 
0     0 

+jZ              0 

0 

0 

0 
0 

0 

0 
0 

+iz 

Zo 

+iz 

+iz 

0 
0 
0 

+jz 

Zo 

i^'::^^^x 

III— 3.5 


Fig.  6 — 13^  X  ring — 4  arm— tap  spacing  and  identification  for  power  division  analysis 
by  determinants. 

Fig.  7 — 13^  X  ring — 4  arm — tap  spacing  and  identification  for  determinantal  analysis 
as  null  device. 


With  voltage  applied  at  6',  mesh  1,  the  minor  for  current  at  /),  mesh  5  is: 


<^6( 


+jz 

Zo 

+jz 

0 

0 

0 

+jz 

0 

+iz  • 

0 

0 

0 

+iz 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

+iz 

+yz 

+iz 

0 

0 

0 

Zo 

III— 5.1 


where  the  5(^')  indicates  that  the  voltage  is  at  S  and  the  current  is  sought  at 
mesh  5.  Corresponding  minors  for  the  current  in  mesh  5(Z>),  due  to  volt- 
ages at  El  and  £2  are: 


dnB\ 


db(Ei)   -~   ~" 


Zo 

+  z_ 

0 

0 

+iz 

0 

+iz 

0 

+jz 

0 

0 

0 

+iz 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

+iz 

+iz 

+iz 

0 

0 

0 

Zo 

Zo. 

+;Z 

0 

0 

+iz 

4-jZ 

Zo. 

+iz 

0 

0 

0 

+iz 

0 

+iz 

0 

0 

0 

+jz 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

+y^ 

+iz 

III— 5.2 


III— 5.3 


WAVEGUIDE  HYBRID  RINGS  EOR  MICROWAVES  483 

Evaluating,  we  find  d^^s)  =  0,  showing  D  is  isolated  from  S.     The  other 
two  expansions  give 

^5(^,)  =  (+iZj[2Z'  -  Z'ZI] 
and 

d^E,)  =  (+iZ)[Z'Zo  -  2Z'l.  Ill— 5.4 

So  the  difference  between  the  voltages  at  Ei  and  £2  is  transmitted  to  D. 
Hereafter  we  will  operate  on  a  single  voltage  at  5.  Note,  incidentally, 
that  if  the  S  arm  were  not  terminated  the  Zo  in  column  1,  row  1  of  f/5(ij) 
and  dhCk.)  would  be  zero,  in  which  case 

df,CE„  =  -  (+yZ)  ilZ")  and  ^5(^,)  =  +  {^-jZ)  (2Z')        III— 5.5 

To  study  frequency  shift  on  current  from  S^  at  ^  we  can  write  III — 5.1 
as 


.(A)    = 


-\-jZ  Zo+2jAZ  -\-jZ             0  0 

0  -\-jZ  2jAZ  +jZ  0 

0  0  +yz  2jAZ  0 

0  0                           0  -^-jZ  +jZ 

-\-jZ  0                           0                0  Zo+2jAZ 


III— 6 


=  2Z2(-Z'jAZ  +  2ZoAZ'  +  4jAZ')  =  -IZ'^Z.  Ill— 7.1 

Match  Condition.  The  impedance  match  condition  is  readily  shown  to  be 
-s/lZ  =  Zo  as  for  the  three-arm  1 JX  ring. 

Construction  of  Test  Samples 

From  the  drawing  of  the  hybrid  circle  (Fig.  1),  it  will  be  seen  that  the 
multiple  soldering  of  guides  into  the  ring  can  present  difficulty  in  fabrica- 
tion, especially  where  numerous  branches  are  required.  In  addition,  early 
measurements  indicated  the  necessity  of  accurate  dimensions,  both  linear 
and  angular.  As  a  consequence,  the  experimental  hybrid  circles  which  were 
used  in  the  measurements  reported  herein  were  milled  from  brass  cylinders. 
Figure  8  shows  a  4-branch  ring  opened  so  that  interior  detail  can  be  seen. 
This  form  of  experimental  construction  enables  dimensions  to  be  held  to 
average  values  of  about  half  a  thousandth  of  an  inch  and  ten  minutes  of  arc. 
The  mating  surfaces  are  fiat  to  within  this  tolerance.  However,  no  currents 
resulting  from  the  held  tend  to  flow  in  the  direction  crossing  the  gap  and  no 
loss  ensues  from  this  source.  These  mechanical  tolerances  are  essential 
only  to  a  basic  experiment  of  the  nature  here  described;  larger  tolerances 
could  undoubtedly  be  specified  in  practice. 


484 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 
Experimental  Results 


There  follows  a  tabulation  of  some  experimental  data  on  samples  of  the 
specific  series  types  analyzed.  The  attenuation  figures  are  probably  good 
to  zb  .25  db  up  to  10  db,  to  ±  .5  db  up  to  50  db.  The  SWR  figures  may  not 
be  better  than  d=  .2  db. 


,^'^'»i 


Fig.  8 — \]/2  X  ring — 4  arm — photograph  of  machined  test  sample. 


^> 


Fig.  9a— 1^  X  ring— 3  arm— as  power  divider. 
Y\g.  9b — 13^  X  ring — 4  arm — as  power  divider  and  null  device. 

The  data  are  for  structures  built  in  terms  of  .900  inch  by  .400  inch  rec- 
tangular guide  size  (inside)  and  the  test  wavelengths*  are  in  the  3-centimeter 
region.    The  design  wavelength*  is  Xo ,  the  test  wavelength  X*. 
Case  A:  IJX;  Three  Arms;  Impedance  Match   ■\/2Z  =    Zo  ;   Reference 
Fig.  9a: 

*  These  are  space  wavelengths. 


WAVEGUIDE  HYBRID  RINGS  FOR  MICROWAVES 


485 


Power  Division.  Input  at  /.  Relative 
power  output  at  Oi  or  O2  in  db  (approx. 
constant  over  band) 

Transmission  Loss  (Isolation)  between  Oi 
and  O2  in  db  (approx.  constant  over  band). 
/  terminated. 

Standing  Wave  Ratio  (SWR)  in  db  at  7. 
Outlets  Oi  and  O2  terminated. 


Experimental  values  at  %  (X  —  Xo)/Xo 


-6% 

-3% 

0 

+3% 

+6% 

-3.7(Oi) 
-3.5(02) 

6.0 

.84 

■ 

' 

1.10 

2.32 

1.50 

1.20 

Case  B:  1|X;  Four  Arms;  Impedance  Match  \/2Z  =  Zq  ;  Reference  Fig.  9b: 


Power  Division.  Input  at  /.  Relative 
power  output  at  Oi  or  O2  in  db  (approx. 
constant  over  band). 

Transmission  Loss  (Isolation)  between  Oi 
and  O2  in  db  /  and  D  terminated. 

Transmission  Loss  (Isolation)  between  5  and 
D  in  db  Oi  and  O2  terminated. 

Standing  Wave  Ratio  (SWR)  in  db  at  /  (5). 
Outlets  at  Oi,  O2  and  D  terminated. 


Experimental  values  at  100(X  —  Xo)/Xo 


-6% 


■3% 


20.3 
24.0 
3.50 


1.20 


■3.5m 
•3.5(02) 


48.5 
47.7 
.66 


+3% 


77 


+6% 


19.7 
22.2 
2.20 


Comparison  Between  Theory  and  Experiment 

From  the  experimental  results,  we  can  now  cite  in  support  of  the  theory 
the  following  areas  of  agreement  between  theory  and  experiment,  at  the 
design  wavelength: 


Ring  Type  and  Property 


Case  A:  if  X;  Three  Arms      _  _  • 

Relative  power  at  Oi  and  O2  for  input  at  /. 

Impedance  match  (SWR) 

Observed  center  wavelength  versus  mean  annulus 
perimeter  guide  wavelength  _         _        _ 

Transmission  loss  (Isolation)  from  Oi  to  O2.  /  ter- 
minated. 


Relative  power  at  Oi  and  O2  for  input  at  / 
Impedance  Match  (SWR)  _        _       _ 

Transmission  Loss  (Isolation)  5  to  D.     0%  and  O2 

terminated  _  _         _ 

Transmission  Loss  (Isolation)  Oi  to  O2.     D  and  / 

terminated 


Theory 


-3db 
Odb 


Experiment 


-3.6db 
.84db 


Agreement    to    about    1% 


6.0  db 


-3db 
Odb 
Conjugacy 

Conjugacy 


6.0  db 


-3.5  db 
.66db 
47.7  db 

48.5  db 


486  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Conclusion 

It  is  concluded  that  the  theory  developed  provides  calculated  results  in 
satisfactory  accord  with  experiment. 

It  will  be  recalled  that  the  approximation  was  initially  made  that  the  line 
sections  were  loss  free.  The  theory  could  doubtless  be  extended  to  include 
dissipation  by  retaining  a  small  real  component  in  the  propagation  constant 
P  of  Fig.  2b.  Xo  doubt  this  real  component  could,  in  turn,  be  included  to 
adequate  accuracy  in  the  equivalences  of  Fig.  2c  by  the  addition  of  real 
components  in  the  series  arms  only.  That  is,  the  series  arm  for  a  X/4  sec- 
tion would  be  Z  (r  +  jl)  =  r  Z  -\-  j  Z  where  r  <<C  1.  Since  such  terms  appear 
as  part  of  the  (5+2  F)'s  in  the  basic  determinant  II — 1,  which  is  the  same 
as  in  series  with  the  Zo's  in  determinant  II — 2,  the  inclusion  of  dissipation 
would  appear  to  be  formally  straightforward. 


Methods  of  Electromagnetic  Field  Analysis* 

By  S.  A.  SCHELKUNOFF 

This  paper  presents  a  discussion  of  ideas  involved  in  various  mathematical 
methods  of  electromagnetic  field  analysis  and  of  the  inter-relations  between 
these  ideas.  It  stresses  the  points  of  contact  between  circuit  and  field  theories 
and  their  mutually  complementary  character.  While  the  field  theory  focuses  our 
attention  on  the  electromagnetic  state  as  a  function  of  position  in  space,  the 
generalized  circuit  theory  is  preoccupied  with  the  electromagnetic  state  as  a 
function  of  time.  The  points  of  contact  between  the  field  and  circuit  theories  are 
many.  Thus,  Maxwell's  equations  are  identical  with  Kirchhoff's  equations 
(really  Lagrange-Maxwell  equations)  of  certain  three-dimensional  networks  in 
which  only  the  adjacent  meshes  are  coupled.  The  integral  equations  for  the 
electrical  current  in  conductors  embedded  in  dielectric  media  are  also  Kirchhoff 
equations  of  certain  networks  containing  infinitely  many  meshes  with  a  coupling 
between  every  two  meshes. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  electrical  performance  the  difference  between  a 
physical  network  of  lumped  elements  and  a  continuous  network,  such  as  a 
resonator,  is  due  to  a  certain  difference  in  the  distribution  of  the  zeros  and  poles 
of  associated  impedance  functions  in  the  complex  impedance  plane.  Similarly, 
the  difference  between  ordinary  transmission  lines  and  wave  guides  is  due  to  a 
difference  in  the  distribution  of  natural  propagation  constants. 

The  paper  ends  with  a  general  discussion  of  the  discontinuities  in  wave  guides, 
idealized  boundary  conditions  for  simplification  of  electromagnetic  problems, 
and  the  analytical  character  of  field  vectors  regarded  as  functions  of  the  complex 
oscillation  constant. 

IX  THE  last  few  years  engineering  applications  of  electromagnetic  field 
theory  have  been  greatly  expanded.  Field  theory  has  become  essential 
for  the  solution  of  many  practical  problems  and  in  planning  engineering 
experiments.  Xew  applications  have  influenced  the  theory  itself  and  have 
led  to  new  conceptions.  The  chasm  between  the  circuit  theory  of  low 
frequency  electrical  phenomena  and  the  field  theory  of  high-frequency 
phenomena  has  disappeared.  The  two  theories  have  met  in  wave  guides 
and  their  merger  has  become  essential.  This  paper  is  a  discussion  of  the 
essential  ideas  underlying  various  mathematical  methods  of  analysis  of 
electromagnetic  oscillations  and  waves  in  the  light  of  new  applicatipns  and  of 
the  merger  of  the  originally  distinct  circuit  and  field  theories. 

CiRcurr  Theory 

Circuit  theory  is  a  mathematical  method  and  it  should  not  be  confused 
with  circuits.  Empty  space  is  neither  a  circuit  nor  a  network;  but  as  we 
shall  soon  see,  for  the  purposes  of  analysis  the  empty  space  can  be  treated  as 
a  network.     It  is  perfectly  true  that  until  recently  circuit  theory  was  con- 

*  This  paper  was  originally  delivered  as  a  lecture  at  a  meeting  sponsored  by  the  Basic 
Science  Group  of  the  American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers,  April  12,  1945. 

487 


488  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

cerned  almost  exclusively  with  aggregates  of  ' 'circuit  elements"  inter- 
connected in  various  ways.  It  is  also  true  that  the  most  famihar  form  of 
circuit  equations  is  that  which  is  similar  to  Kirchhoff's  equations  for  the 
steady  current  flow  in  networks  of  conducting  rods,  published^  in  April  1845. 
This  form  is  applicable  only  to  circuits.  However,  the  application  of 
these  ''Kirchhoff  equations"  to  alternating  currents,  natural  as  it  may  seem 
to  us  now,  was  not  obvious  one  hundred  years  ago.  The  first  equation  for  a 
simple  circuit  consisting  of  a  capacitor,  an  inductor,  and  a  resistor  in  series 
was  published  in  1853  by  Lord  Kelvin.^  Interestingly  enough  his  approach 
is  based  on  the  ideas  applicable  both  to  conventional  circuits  and  to  high- 
frequency  resonators.  If  q  is  the  electric  charge  on  one  plate  of  the  ca- 
pacitor, the  energy  stored  in  the  capacitor  is  q^/2C^  where  the  coefficient  C 
depends  on  the  geometry  of  the  capacitor.  The  magnetic  energy  of  the 
circuit  is  -|  Lq^^  where  q  is  the  time  rate  of  change  of  the  charge,  that  is,  the 
current  in  the  circuit,  and  L  is  a  coefficient  depending  on  the  geometry  of  the 
circuit.  The  rate  of  energy  transformation  into  heat  is  Rq^,  where  i?  is  a 
coefficient  depending  on  the  geometry  of  the  conductors  (and  of  course  on 
their  resistivity).     The  law  of  conservation  of  energy  demands  that 

^W/2C  +  m'\  =  -Rq--  (1) 

at 

When  the  differentiation  is  performed  and  q  is  cancelled,  the  usual  form  of 
the  equation  is  obtained.  The  coefficients  of  proportionality,  that  is,  the 
inductance  L,  the  capacitance  C,  and  the  resistance  R  sum  up  and  stress  the 
really  important  electrical  characteristics  of  the  circuit;  the  details  of  the 
construction  of  the  circuit  are  suppressed. 

It  was  Maxwell  who  formulated  the  general  equations  for  electric  net- 
works by  extending  the  application  of  a  method  developed  by  Lagrange  for 
mechanical  systems.  This  Maxwell  did  in  his  last  two  lectures.  In  the 
words  of  his  student,  J.  H.  Fleming:^  "Maxwell,  by  a  process  of  extra- 
ordinary ingenuity,  extended  this  reasoning  (the  method  of  Lagrange)  from 
materio-niotive  forces,  masses,  velocities  and  kinetic  energies  of  gross  matter 
to  the  electromotive  forces,  quantities,  currents,  and  electrokinetic  energies 
of  electrical  matter,  and  in  so  doing  obtained  a  similar  equation  of  great 
generality  for  attacking  electrical  problems." 

Before  discussing  the  Lagrange-Maxwell  method  more  completely,  let  us 
see  if  we  can  construct  a  network  whose  electrical  properties  would  be  the 
same  as  those  of  a  continuous  medium. 

^  Annalen  der  Physik. 

2  Philosophical  Magazine. 

'  Philosophical  Magazine,  1885. 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  489 

Natural  Network  Models  of  Continuous  Media  and 
Maxwell's  Differential  Equations 

Transmission  line  theory  represents  a  well  known  example  of  the  applica- 
tion of  circuit  theory  to  continuous  systems.  Two-wire  transmission  lines 
are  subdivided  into  infinitesimal  sections  by  planes  perpendicular  to  the 
lines.  Each  section  is  replaced  by  a  capacitor  whose  capacitance  is  so 
chosen  that,  for  a  given  voltage  across  the  transmission  line,  the  electric 
charges  on  the  plates  of  the  capacitor  are  correspondingly  equal  to  the 
charges  on  the  sections  of  the  wires  constituting  the  Hne.  The  leads  con- 
necting the  terminals  of  these  capacitors  are  then  assumed  to  possess  an 
inductance  and  a  resistance  but  no  capacitance.  Thus  the  electric  flux  or 
displacement  is  ''swept"  into  tiny  capacitors,  and  the  magnetic  flux  or 
displacement  into  tiny  inductors. 

This  representation  is  good  only  at  low  frequencies  because  it  depends  on 
the  assumption  that  the  electric  displacement  is  only  in  one  direction, 
namely  at  right  angles  to  the  transmission  line.  In  effect,  this  representa- 
tion neglects  the  capacitance  between  different  parts  of  the  same  conductor 
and  includes  only  the  capacitance  between  the  opposite  segments  of  different 
conductors.  That  is,  while  we  have  recognized  that  the  inductance  and 
capacitance  are  distributed  in  the  direction  parallel  to  the  transmission  line, 
we  have  ignored  the  fact  that  they  are  also  distributed  at  right  angles  to  the 
line.  In  the  general  representation  we  should  subdivide  the  medium  into 
infinitesimal  blocks  and  devise  a  three-dimensional  network  lattice  of 
infinitely  small  meshes.  Fig.  1.  The  displacement  current  can  be  swept 
equally  into  tiny  capacitors.  If  the  medium  is  dissipative,  the  resistors 
may  be  inserted  in  parallel  with  the  capacitors  to  take  care  of  the  con- 
duction currents  in  the  medium.  The  magnetic  flux  is  swept  equally  into 
tiny  coils  in  the  corners  of  each  mesh.  However,  the  resulting  network  is 
not  homogeneous.  Besides  meshes  of  type  A  consisting  of  four  capacitors 
and  four  inductors,  it  contains  meshes  of  type  B  consisting  of  inductors  only; 
and  yet  we  started  with  a  homogeneous  medium.  Gabriel  Kron  solved  the 
difficulty  by  introducing  ideal  transformers  (with  one-to-one  turn  ratio)  with 
their  windings  in  series  with  the  coils  at  the  opposite  corners  of  each  A-mesh. 
These  transformers  do  not  affect  the  electrical  performance  of  the  A-meshes 
but  introduce  infinite  impedance  into  B-meshes  and  thus  e^ectively  elimi- 
nate them. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  such  transformers  should  properly  be  included  in  the 
network  representations  of  two-wire  lines.  In  fact,  by  implication  they  are 
included  as  soon  as  we  state  that  the  direct  and  return  currents  in  the  line 
are  equal  and  opposite.  \Mthout  an  infinite  impedance  to  currents  flowing 
in  the  same  direction  we  cannot  have  the  balance.     Pursuing  the  matter 


490 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


further,  we  should  say  that  all  this  is  in  accord  with  physical  facts.  The 
inductance  per  unit  length  of  an  infinitely  long  isolated  wire  is  infinite. 
The  mutual  inductance  between  two  parallel  wires  is  also  infinite.  The  two 
wires  are  the  'Svindings"  of  an  ideal  transformer  and  a  finite  impedance  is 
presented  only  to  equal  and  opposite  currents.  In  the  case  of  wires  of  finite 
length  the  essentially  three-dimensional  character  of  the  structure  manifests 
itself,  and  other  modes  of  propagation  have  to  be  considered. 


Fig.  1 — Typical  equivalent  meshes  in  a  circuit  representation  of  continuous  media. 

It  is  evident  that  the  homogeneity  of  the  medium  is  not  a  prerequisite  for 
the  existence  of  its  network  model.  Having  the  values  of  L  and  C  at  our 
disposal,  we  can  choose  them  to  reflect  the  dependence  of  the  permeability 
/Lt  and  the  dielectric  constant  e  on  position. 

If  we  divide  the  medium  into  small  blocks  of  volume  Ax  ^y  As,  the  capaci- 
tance Cx  of  the  typical  capacitor  in  those  branches  of  the  network  which  are 
parallel  to  the  x-axis  is  Cx  =  t  ^y  Az/Ax,  where  €  is  the  dielectric  constant. 
The  conductance  in  parallel  with  this  is  Gx  =  gAyAz/Ax.  The  inductance 
of  the  typical  coil  in  the  x^'-plane  is  L^y  =  m  AxAy/4As.  The  voltages  across 
the  capacitors  are  E^Ax,  EyAy,  EzAz,  where  Ex,  Ey,  Eg  are  the  electric 
intensities,  that  is,  the  voltages  per  unit  length  in  the  respective  directions. 
The  currents  in  the  coils  situated  in  the  xy-p\sine  are  equal  to  HzAz;  simi- 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  491 

larly  the  currents  in  the  other  coils  are  Hx  A.r  and  ILj  A>'.  It  is  to  be  noted 
that  the  capacitors  are  associated  with  the  corresponding  longitudinal  com- 
ponents of  the  electric  held  while  the  inductors  go  with  the  transverse  com- 
ponents of  the  magnetic  field.  Applying  Kirchhoff's  laws  to  the  network  in 
Fig.  1,  w^e  should  and  do  obtain  Maxwell's  field  equations.  Similarly,  we 
can  construct  network  lattices  in  the  patterns  of  other  coordinate  systems, 
cylindrical  and  spherical,  for  example. 

Among  the  obvious  conclusions  to  be  drawn  from  this  analysis  of  the 
network  structure  of  the  medium  supporting  the  electromagnetic  field  is  the 
validity  of  certain  general  network  theorems  such  as  the  Reciprocity 
Theorem  and  Thevenin's  Theorem. 

Reduced  Network  Models  and  Integral  Equations  of 
LoRENTZ  Type 

So  far  we  have  been  concerned  with  the  electromagnetic  field  in  its  en- 
tirety. In  order  to  visualize  the  medium  as  a  three-dimensional  network  we 
have  selected  the  most  direct  cour£e :  We  have  subdivided  the  medium  into 
blocks  of  displacement  current,  compressed  them  into  capacitors,  and 
eliminated  displacement  currents  from  the  rest  of  space;  similarly,  we  have 


'    1    '    2    '    3   '   4   '    5   '  'n-2'n-i '    n   ' 

Fig.  2 — Subdivision  of  a  straight  antenna  for  its  representation  by 
a  reduced  network  with  n  meshes. 

swept  the  magnetic  flux  into  neat  little  packages.  But  this  is  not  the  only 
course  open  to  us.  We  can  suppress  the  medium  just  as  completely  as  we 
normally  do  in  the  analysis  of  elementary  networks.  In  order  to  illustrate 
this  method  let  us  consider  a  doublet  antenna.  Fig.  2.  We  shall  divide  it 
into.w  sections.  The  current  and  charge  in  any  one  section  exert  forces  on 
the  charge  in  any  other  section.  We  can  regard  each  section  of  the  antenna 
as  a  mesh  of  a  network  in  which  every  mesh  is  coupled  to  every  other  mesh. 
In  each  mesh  the  voltage  which  is  necessary  to  compensate  for  the  electro- 
motive force  of  self-induction  of  the  mesh  itself,  for  the  resistance  of  the 
mesh  (or  rather  for  the  internal  impedance  of  the  wire),  and  for  the  voltages 
induced  from  all  the  other  meshes,  is  the  impressed  voltage.  The  equations 
assume  the  following  form: 

Zn/i  +  Znh  +  Z13/3  +  •  •  •  +  /i  Jn  -  Vi , 

Z21/1   +   Z22/2   +   Z23/3  +    •  •  •    +   Z2nln    =    V2  ,  (2) 

Znlh   +   Zn2l2   +  Zrcdz  +    *  *  "    +   ZnrJn    =    ^'n  , 


492  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

where  the  /'s  are  the  currents  in  the  various  sections  of  the  antenna  and  the 
F's  are  the  impressed  voltages.  The  Z's  are  the  self -impedances  and  the 
mutual  impedances,  and  are  calculated  from  the  law  of  force  between  two 
charged  particles.  In  a  transmitting  antenna  the  impressed  voltage  is  zero 
everywhere  except  in  a  restricted  region.  In  the  receiving  antenna  the 
voltage  is  impressed  on  all  sections;  but  one  section,  the  "load,"  has  a  very 
different  self-impedance  from  the  remaining  sections. 

When  n  is  finite,  our  equations  are  approximate.  If  we  make  n  infinite 
and  introduce  the  impressed  electric  intensity,  that  is,  the  impressed  voltage 
per  unit  length,  we  convert  equations  (2)  into  a  single  integral  equation. 
More  generally  we  may  have  to  consider  the  transverse  dimensions  of  the 
antenna  and  divide  the  entire  surface  of  the  antenna  into  elementary  surface 
elements,  each  of  which  will  represent  two  meshes  in  our  network.  We  have 
to  have  two  meshes  for  each  surface  element  because  the  current  may  in 
general  change  its  direction  from  point  to  point  and  in  order  to  specify  it 
completely  w^e  must  consider  two  components  of  the  current.  These  may 
be  taken  as  tangential  to  some  Gaussian  coordinate  lines  drawn  on  the 
surface  of  the  antenna.  The  exact  network  equations  will  appear  as  a 
system  of  two  integral  equations  involving  double  integrals. 

In  this  discussion,  we  have  assumed  that  the  medium  outside  the  antenna 
is  homogeneous.  No  difficulty  is  presented  by  the  simultaneous  inclusion 
of  a  transmitting  and  a  receiving  antenna.  The  two  form  just  one  network 
and  the  voltages  impressed  on  the  various  meshes  of  the  receiving  antenna 
represent  simply  the  coupling  between  these  meshes  and  the  meshes  of  the 
transmitting  antenna.  All  the  mutual  impedances  are  calculable  from  the 
general  equation, 

£=  -M^-gradF,  (3) 

representing  the  force  per  unit  charge  due  to  a  given  moving  charge.  If  we 
so  desire,  we  can  take  equation  (3)  with  the  explicit  expressions  for  A  and  V 
in  terms  of  electric  current  and  charge  as  the  fundamental  equations  of 
electromagnetic  theory  and  dispense  with  Maxwell's  differential  equations 
altogether.  This  course  is  feasible  but  inexpedient.  Actual  applications  of 
this  equation  turn  out  to  be  much  too  complicated  in  the  great  majority  of 
practical  problems.  It  is  only  when  we  already  know  the  current  and  charge 
distribution  that  (vS)  becomes  really  useful.  Thus  in  the  accepted  develop- 
ment of  electromagnetic  theory  {?>)  is  subordinated  to  Maxwell's  equations 
and  derived  from  them. 


ELECTRO  MAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  493 

Normalized  Network  Modki   and  Lagrange-Maxwell 
Electrodynamical  Equations 

Let  us  now  return  to  the  ideas  of  Lagrange  as  applied  to  electromagnetics.. 
[n  dynamics  the  Lagrange  equations  are  formulated  in  terms  of  the  kinetic 
energy  T  expressed  as  a  function  of  velocities,  potential  energy  U  expressed 
as  a  function  of  coordinates,  and  a  dissipation  function  F  expressed  as  a 
function  of  velocities.  In  network  theory  T  is  the  magnetic  energy  ex- 
pressed as  a  function  of  currents,  U  is  the  electric  energy  expressed  in  terms 
of  charges,  and  F  is  the  dissipation  function  in  terms  of  currents.  Lagrange- 
Maxwell  equations  are  then  written  in  the  following  form 

l[i'--"]-^'--«+a¥.  =  "-.  » 

where  In  is  the  typical  mesh  current,  ^„  is  its  time  integral,  and  Vn  is  the 
impressed  electromotive  force,  that  is,  the  electromotive  force  not  accounted 
for  by  the  magnetic  induction  and  the  charges  in  the  network.  The  various 
functions  in  the  equation  are 

7^_>^vlr         T      T  A'_vv     ^"^  9n 

^^mn  (5  J. 

F    =   i:m^nhRmnImIn, 

where  Lmn  is  the  mutual  inductance  between  two  typical  meshes  (the  self- 
inductance  if  m  =  n),  Cmn  is  the  mutual  capacitance  and  i?„,„  is  the  mutual 
resistance.  The  mesh  currents  are  introduced  in  order  to  insure  that  the 
total  current  either  entering  or  leaving  a  typical  junction  of  the  network 
elements  is  zero.  If  we  perform  the  diflferentiations  indicated  in  equation 
(4),  we  shall  obtain  the  network  equations  in  their  usual  form. 

Let  us'now  suppose  that  F  =  0  and  F„  =  0.  In  higher  algebra  it  is 
shown  that  by  a  linear  transformation  two  quadratic  functions,  T  and  U  for 
example,  can  be  reduced  to  normal  forms  in  which  there  are  no  mutual 
terms 

T    =    i:nhLn  /  n  ,  U    =    S„  fjlCn  •  (6) 

In  this  case  equations  (4)  will  assume  the  following  simple  form 

i„  ^"  +  1^  =  0.  (7) 

at         Ln 

It  is  as  if  we  had  a  certain  number  of  isolated  single-mesh  circuits.  Equa- 
tions (7)  represent  the  normal  modes  of  oscillation  of  the  network. 


494 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Take  the  simple  case  of  two  identical  coupled  circuits,  Fig.  3.     The 
network  equations  are 


-^§  +  ^^  +  ^§  =  °-      ^«) 


It  is  evident  by  inspection  that  there  are  two  possible  modes  of  oscillation. 
In  one  mode  h  =  Ii  and  in  the  other  /i  =  —h-  The  natural  frequency  of 
the  first  mode  is  oji  =  \I\/{L  —  M)C  and  that  of  the  second  mode  C02  = 
l/-\/{L  +  M)C.    The  magnetic  energy  function  is 


T  =  iLli  -  Mhh  +  H/2 


«,_„['_aj£.J,,„,«[W,J. 


(9) 


Thus  the  sum  and  the  difference  of  the  currents  in  the  two  meshes  oscillate 
independently. 


0  %      c+^ 


Fig.  3- 


Il=l2  Il=-l2 

-Two  possible  modes  of  oscillation  in  a  symmetric  two-mesh  circuit. 


More  generally  a  network  with  n  meshes  possesses  n  independent  modes  of 
oscillation.  In  each  mode  the  ratios  of  the  mesh  currents  Ii,  h,  •  -  •  In  are 
prescribed  by  the  network  parameters  and  the  connections  of  the  network 
elements,  but  the  relative  strength  of  the  oscillation  remains  arbitrary. 
When  we  pass  to  networks  with  distributed  parameters  such  as  sections  of 
transmission  lines  and  cavity  resonators,  we  find  merely  that  the  number  of 
independent  modes  of  oscillation  is  infinite.  In  the  case  of  a  nondissipative 
uniform  transmission  line  with  both  ends  shorted,  the  natural  frequencies  of 
the  various  oscillation  modes  are  proportional  to  the  sequence  of  integers: 
1,  2,  3,  .  .  ..The  current  distribution  for  the  n-ih  mode  is  given  by  sin  {mrx/i), 
where  I  is  the  length  of  the  section ;  but  the  actual  amplitude  remains  arbi- 
trary. For  the  gravest  mode  {n  =  1)  the  middle  part  of  the  line  section 
behaves  as  a  capacitor  and  the  ends  as  inductors.  For  the  higher  modes  the 
line  is  subdivided  into  sections,  some  of  which  act  primarily  as  capacitors 
and  others  as  inductors. 

In  the  case  of  cavity  resonators  of  some  simple  shapes,  such  as  paral- 
lelopipedal,  cylindrical  and  spherical,  the  determination  of  the  oscillation 
modes  is  a  fairly  simple  problem.     The  dynamical  equations  of  the  resonator 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  495 

(Maxwell's  field  equations)  are  partial  differential  equations.  Their  solu- 
tions would  normally  involve  arbitrary  functions;  but  since  the  tangential 
electric  intensity  vanishes  at  the  conducting  boundary  of  the  resonator,  the 
solutions  assume  a  much  less  arbitrary  form  involving  only  an  infinite  set  of 
arbitrary  constants.  Particular  solutions  are  sought  in  the  form  of  products 
of  three  functions,  each  depending  on  only  one  coordinate.  For  paral- 
lelopipedal  cavity  resonators  the  various  components  of  electric  and  mag- 
netic intensity  are  assumed  in  the  form  X{x)  Y(y)  Z{z).  By  substituting  in 
Maxwell's  equations  it  is  found — very  fortunately  indeed — that  X,  Y,  Z 
may  be  obtained  as  solutions  of  ordinary  differential  equations.  The 
boundary  conditions  at  the  boundaries  of  the  box  x  =  0,a;  y  =  0,b;z  =  ox 
are  easy  to  satisfy  because  we  have  to  work  with  only  one  of  these  three 
functions  at  a  time. 

In  general,  however,  the  problem  of  calculating  oscillation  modes  is  by  no 
means  simple;  but  once  these  modes  have  been  determined,  the  problem  of 
forced  oscillations  as  well  as  free  oscillations  is  practically  solved.  For 
instance,  a  small  loop  inside  a  resonator  is  coupled  to  the  various  modes  and 
the  coupling  coefficients  can  be  determined  by  evaluating  the  flux  linkages. 

Every  physical  circuit  possesses  an  infinite  number  of  degrees  of  freedom 
and  circuits  with  a  finite  number  of  degrees  of  freedom  are  abstractions. 
If  we  take  special  measures  to  concentrate  magnetic  energy  as  much  as 
possible  in  a  few  regions  of  the  medium  and  electric  energy  in  a  few  other 
regions,  we  shall  have  a  physical  network  in  which  a  finite  number  of  oscilla- 
tion modes  will  be  well  separated  on  the  frequency  scale  from  all  the  rest. 
If  we  are  concerned  only  with  the  frequencies  comparable  to  the  natural 
frequencies  of  this  cluster  of  modes,  we  can  ignore  all  the  higher  modes  and 
for  our  purposes  we  may  regard  the  network  as  a  finite  network.  At  these 
frequencies  the  infinitely  small  meshes  into  which  we  could  subdivide  the 
individual  "inductors"  (regions  of  magnetic  energy  concentration)  and 
"capacitors"  (regions  of  electric  energy  concentration)  will  oscillate  in 
unison  in  groups. 

Briefly  wt  can  summarize  the  above  methods  of  analysis  as  follows: 
The  medium  supporting  the  electromagnetic  field  may  be  regarded  as  a 
three-dimensional  network  of  infinitely  small  meshes  in  which  every  mesh  is 
coupled  only  to  the  adjacent  mesh.  Circuit  equations  applied  to  this 
network  lead  to  Maxwell's  differential  equations.  In  contrast  with  this 
^^ natural  network  model  of  the  medium^'  we  can  construct  a  reduced  network 
model  in  which  only  the  conductors  of  the  medium  are  subdivided  into 
meshes.  The  medium  surrounding  the  conductors  is  concealed  in  the 
mutual  impedances  of  the  constituent  meshe3.  Every  mesh  is  coupled  to 
every  other  mesh  and  the  mutual  impedance  (or  the  coupling  factor)  is 


496  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

determined  from  the  law  of  force  exerted  by  a  moving  charge  on  a  sta- 
tionary charge.  This  approach  leads  to  one  or  two  integral  equations  which 
can  be  approximated  by  a  system  of  linear  algebraic  equations.  M  hile  the 
latter  may  seem  much  simpler  than  the  differential  ecuations  obtained 
from  the  natural  network  model,  in  reality  their  solution  would  often  consti- 
tute a  much  more  difficult  analytical  problem.  The  natural  network  model 
in  which  each  mesh  is  coupled  only  to  the  adjacent  meshes  is  in  harmony 
with  the  idea  of  continuous  propagation  of  electromagnetic  disturbances; 
while  the  reduced  network  model  conforms  to  the  action  at  a  distance 
philosophy.  The  difference  is  merely  in  the  language  and  ideas  and  not  in 
substance. 


Fig.  4 — Two  possible  modes  of  propagation  in  a  symmetrically  shielded  parallel  pair.* 

Finally,  the  third  method  is  based  on  the  idea  that  at  certain  frequencies, 
called  the  natural  frequencies,  various  parts  of  a  closed  system  oscillate  in 
phase  or  180°  out  of  phase,  that  the  most  general  natural  oscillation  is  the 
sum  of  such  oscillations,  and  that  the  most  general  forced  oscillation  can  be 
expressed  in  terms  of  fields  aszociated  with  the  natural  modes  of  oscillation. 
We  may  call  this  the  normalized  network  model  of  the  electromagnetic  field. 
Thus  far  we  have  described  it  with  reference  to  closed  systems  or  cavity 
resonators.  In  effect  we  have  assumed  that  the  amounts  of  magnetic  and 
electric  energy  are  finite  or  else  we  could  not  talk  about  T  and  U  functions. 
The  method  can  be  extended  to  open  systems  of  wave  guides. 

Modes  of  Transmission 

Let  us  begin  with  a  coaxial  transmission  line.  Everyone  is  familiar  with 
the  particular  mode  of  transmission  in  which  equal  and  opposite  currents 
flow  in  the  two  conductors.  The  circuit  is  completed  through  the  dielectric 
where  the  displacement  current  flows  from  one  conductor  to  the  other. 
Next,  consider  a  shielded  parallel  pair.  If  the  structure  is  symmetric,  we 
shall  recognize  at  once  two  modes  of  transmission,  Fig.  4.  In  one  mode,  the 
balanced  mode,  the  currents  in  the  wires  are  equal  and  opposite;  there  are 

*  In  the  upper  part  of  this  figure  one  of  the  directional  arrows  should  be  reversed. 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  497 

also  equal  and  opposite  currents  in  the  shield  which,  however,  are  not  equal 
to  the  corresponding  currents  in  the  wires.  In  the  other  mode,  the  currents 
in  the  wires  are  equal  and  similarly  directed,  the  return  path  being  through 
the  shield;  this  mode  is  similar  to  the  coaxial  mode  since  the  wires  act  in 
parallel,  effectively  as  one  conductor.  In  the  case  of  n  wires  there  are  n 
distinct  modes  of  transmission.  Each  mode  is  characterized  by  the  ratio 
of  currents  in  the  wires  and  by  the  field  pattern  that  goes  with  it. 

In  all  these  modes  the  longitudinal  current  paths  are  conductive;  but 
there  is  no  reason  whatsoever  why  the  circuit  closure  should  not  take  place 
through  the  dielectric.  Even  in  those  modes  of  transmission  in  which  all 
longitudinal  current  paths  are  conductive,  we  have  to  depend  on  the  dielectric 
for  completion  of  the  circuit;  this  should  prepare  us  for  the  idea  that  con- 
ductors are  not  essential  for  wave  transmission.  If  we  include  the  dielectric, 
the  number  of  possible  longitudinal  tubes  of  flow  becomes  infinite  and  so 
does  the  number  of  possible  transmission  modes;  but  as  the  cross-section 
of  each  individual  tube  decreases  the  longitudinal  capacitance  also  de- 
creases, and  these  modes  will  participate  in  the  transfer  of  power  over 
substantial  distances  only  at  correspondingly  higher  frequencies.  It  is 
not  merely  that  at  low  frequencies  the  longitudinal  impedance  becomes 
very  high;  it  is  capacitive  and  causes  high  attenuation.  The  effect  is 
analogous  to  the  attenuation  in  high-pass  filters  below  the  cutoff. 

The  mathematical  analysis  which  lends  quantitative  substance  to  these 
ideas  is  similar  to  that  involved  in  the  cavity  resonator  problem.  Once  all 
the  modes  of  transmission  have  been  found,  the  next  problem  is  that  of 
the  excitation  of  these  modes  by  a  given  source,  that  is,  of  coupUng  of  the 
source  to  various  modes. 

To  summarize:  A  physical  transmission  line  or  a  wave  guide  has  always 
an  infinite  number  of  transmission  modes  either  independent  or  substan- 
tially independent  of  each  other.  It  is  as  if  we  had  a  system  of  single-mode 
transmission  lines  without  couplers.  For  each  transmission  mode  the 
structure  behaves  as  a  high-pass  filter.  If  n  is  the  number  of  conductors, 
there  are  n  —  \  transmission  modes  with  the  cutoff  frequency  equal  to 
zero.  Since  the  lowest  non-zero  cutoff  frequency  corresponds  to  a  wave- 
length comparable  to  the  transverse  dimensions  of  the  guide,  it  is  clear  that 
in  systems  with  two  or  more  conductors  we  have  a  certain  finite  number  of 
transmission  modes  which  are  well  separated  on  the  frequency  scale  from 
all  the  rest.  For  this  reason  we  may  ignore  all  the  higher  modes  when  we 
are  concerned  with  transmission  of  low  freouencies  only,  by  ''low"  meaning 
the  frequencies  well  below  the  frequency  equal  to  the  velocity  of  light 
divided  by  the  largest  transverse  dimension  of  the  transmission  line. 

Analysis  of  waves  in  free  space  proceeds  along  similar  lines.     An  electric 


498  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

"dipole"  is  the  source  of  the  simplest  spherical  electromagnetic  wave.  We 
may  picture  this  dipole  as  a  pair  of  small  spheres  connected  by  a  thin  rod. 
Under  the  influence  of  an  impressed  force  the  charge  is  made  to  surge  back 
and  forth  between  the  spheres.  We  cannot  have  a  simple  source  like  a 
uniformly  expanding  and  contracting  sphere  as  in  the  case  of  sound  waves. 
The  electric  charge  is  conserved,  and  the  only  way  we  can  alter  the  charge 
in  one  place  is  to  transfer  it  to  some  other  place.  A  more  symmetrical 
dipole  would  be  a  single  sphere  on  the  surface  of  which  the  charge  is  made 
to  move  back  and  forth  between  two  hemispheres.  Let  us  call  these 
hemispheres  respectively  the  "northern"  and  the  "southern".  When  the 
positive  charge  accumulates  on  the  northern  hemisphere,  the  radial  dis- 
placement current  flows  outwards  from  it.  At  the  same  time  an  equal 
radial  displacement  current  flows  toward  the  southern  hemisphere.  The 
situation  is  analogous  to  the  balanced  mode  of  transmission  along  parallel 
wires,  with  the  two  half  spaces  acting  as  "the  wires".  The  distance  along 
the  line  is  the  distance  from  the  dipole.  The  radial  transmission  line  is 
capacitively  loaded  but  the  series  capacitance  increases  as  the  square  of 
the  radius  and  therefore  the  capacitive  series  admittance  decreases  as  the 
reciprocal  of  the  square  of  the  radius.  Hence,  at  some  distance  from  the 
dipole,  the  wave  propagation  will  be  quite  unimpeded  just  as  in  ordinary 
transmission  lines  free  from  loading.  Near  the  dipole  the  series  capacitance 
is  high,  and  the  power  carried  by  the  wave  in  comparison  with  the  energy 
stored  is  small. 

In  the  next  spherical  mode  of  transmission  the  polar  regions  of  the  spher- 
ical generator  are  similarly  charged  while  the  opposite  charge  is  concen- 
trated in  the  equatorial  zone.  The  zonal  character  of  the  radial  current 
distribution  persists  at  all  distances  from  the  generator.  As  might  be 
expected  the  reactive  field  in  the  vicinity  of  a  small  "tripole"  generator  is 
even  stronger  than  in  the  case  of  the  dipole  source. 

The  sequence  of  zonal  modes  of  transmission  can  be  continued  indefinitely. 
Next  we  could  imagine  tubular  modes  in  which  the  space  surrounding  the 
generator  is  subdivided  into  conical  tubes  with  the  radial  current  in  adjacent 
tubes  flowing  in  opposite  directions.  This  picture  is  essentially  physical; 
but  it  corresponds  very  closely  to  the  mathematical  expansion  of  the  general 
solution  of  Maxwell's  equations  in  spherical  harmonics. 

Field  Representation  in  Terms  of  Fields  of  Special  Types 

From  the  mathematical  point  of  view  the  method  which  we  have  just 
been  considering  is  based  on  the  idea  of  representation  of  the  general  field 
in  terms  of  particular  fields  having  certain  relatively  simple  properties. 
The  method  is  analogous  to  that  employed  in  circuit  theorj^  when  the 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  499 

response  to  the  general  electromotive  force  is  expressed  in  terms  of  responses 
to  the  unit  step  function,  or  the  unit  impulse  function,  or  the  steady  state 
responses  at  various  frequencies. 

There  are  numerous  variations  of  the  same  general  idea,  some  of  which 
are  more  suitable  to  one  class  of  problems  and  others  to  another  class/ 
If  the  distribution  of  electric  charge  and  current  is  known,  then  in  many 
cases  (but  not  in  all)  it  is  best  to  subdivide  it  into  small  volume  elements. 
Except  for  a  possible  static  electric  charge  distribution,  the  elements  will 
be  dipoles.  The  entire  field  can  thus  be  regarded  as  the  resultant  of  spherical 
waves  generated  by  dipoles  of  given  moment  and  position.  To  simplify 
the  integration  involved  in  this  method  certain  auxiliary  functions,  called 
the  retarded  potentials,  are  introduced.  One  should  not  try  to  ascribe 
to  these  auxiliary  mathematical  functions  any  physical  significance  and  one 
should  always  remember  that  on  certain  occasions  potential  functions, 
other  than  the  retarded  potentials,  turn  out  to  be  more  useful.  We  should 
also  keep  in  mind  that,  in  order  to  apply  this  method,  we  have  to  know  the 
complete  distribution  of  electric  conduction  currents  and  as  a  general  rule 
we  do  not  have  this  information.  Consider,  for  instance,  the  problem  of 
electromagnetic  shielding.  The  current  in  the  coil  is  given;  but  that  in 
the  shield  has  to  be  determined.  There  are  methods  for  calculating  the 
induced  current;  but  these  methods  give  at  the  same  time  the  shielding 
effectiveness,  and  that  without  employing  retarded  potentials.  It  is  in 
approximate  studies  of  radiation  patterns  of  antennas  and  antenna  arrays 
that  the  retarded  potential  method  is  displayed  to  the  best  advantage. 

The  retarded  potentials  are  based  on  representation  of  fields  in  terms  of 
spherical  coordinates;  that  is,  in  terms  of  fields  associated  with  hypothetical 
point  sources  at  the  origin  of  the  coordinate  system.  General  fields  can 
also  be  expressed  in  terms  of  cylindrical  coordinates  and,  consequently,  in 
terms  of  fields  associated  with  hypothetical  line  sources  situated  along  the 
axis  of  the  coordinate  system.  Likewise,  fields  can  be  expressed  in  cartesian 
coordinates;  that  is,  in  terms  of  "plane  waves".  All  such  representations 
have  useful  applications.     The  current  in  the  coil  is  given. 

Discontinuities 

In  the  analysis  of  the  various  transmission  modes  for  a  given  wave  guide 
it  is  assumed  at  first  that  the  boundaries  of  the  wave  guide  are  analytic 
functions  of  the  coordinates.  Any  discontinuity  or  irregularity  has  to  be 
treated  separately,  simply  because  there  is  nothing  in  the  analytic  part 
of  the  wave  guide  to  suggest  that  a  discontinuity  might  occur,  or  to  prescribe 
the  properties  of  this  discontinuity.  Discontinuities  may  be  accidental, 
unavoidable  or  intentional.     A  kink  in  a  wire  is  an  example  of  an  accidental 


500 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


discontinuity.  Open  air  wire  lines  have  to  be  supported  on  poles  which, 
together  with  the  insulators,  constitute  unavoidable  discontinuities.  The 
beginning  and  the  end  of  a  line  are  always  present.  Usually  these  latter 
discontinuities  are  simply  unavoidable;  but,  in  radio,  at  least  one  dis- 
continuity, the  antenna,  is  made  to  serve  a  useful  purpose.  It  is  clear 
that  the  generator  and  the  load  connected  by  a  two-wire  line.  Fig.  S,  are 
dipoles  which  will  generate  spherical  waves  as  well  as  the  wave  guided  by 
the  transmission  line.  At  low  frequencies  the  length  of  the  dipoles  is  so 
small  compared  with  the  wavelength  that  the  field  does  not  reach  out  into 


Fig.  5 — Formation  of  spherical  waves  at  the  ends  of  a  long  pair  of  parallel  wires. 


Fig.  6 — An  antenna. 

the  region  where  the  radial  capacitance  becomes  negligible  and  where  the 
spherical  wave  starts  carrying  off  all  the  energy  that  gets  there.  Spherical 
waves  generated  at  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  the  transmission  line  are 
practically  stationary  waves  and  constitute  merely  local  reactive  reservoirs 
of  energy.  The  energy  is  withdrawn  from  the  generator  or  the  transmission 
line  during  one  half  of  the  cycle  only  to  be  returned  during  the  other  half.^ 
At  low  frequencies  the  energy  thus  exchanged  back  and  forth  is  so  small 
that  normally  we  don't  even  think  about  it.  The  antenna,  Fig.  6,  is  designed 
to  be  a  more  efficient  transformer  of  the  plane  wave  guided  by  the  parallel 
pair  into  the  spherical  wave  which  will  carry  ofif  power  to  distant  points. 
Quite  frequently  discontinuities  are  introduced  intentionally  in  order  to 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS 


501 


discriminate  against  some  frequencies.  A  capacitor  in  parallel  with  the 
wave  guide  or  an  inductor  in  series  with  it  will  favor  transmission  of  low 
frequencies  at  the  expense  of  high  frequencies.  These  discontinuities  are 
deliberately  designed  to  be  sufficiently  large  to  produce  noticeable  effect. 
A  frequency  filter  is  a  more  elaborate  structure  made  up  of  capacitors  and 
inductors  designed  to  achieve  desired  frequency  discrimination. 

Discontinuities  in  high-frequency  wave  guides  are  also  either  accidental, 
unavoidable  or  intentional.  The  principal  difference  is  in  the  order  of 
magnitude — any  irregularity  of  apparently  small  physical  dimensions  may 
represent  a  large  virtual  reservoir  of  energy.  Among  the  simplest  types 
of  intentional  discontinuities  in  wave  guides  are  '^irises",  Fig.  7.  Local 
fields  are  created  in  the  vicinity  of  the  irises.  Under  the  influence  of  a 
wave  traveling  along  the  guide,  electric  charge  and  current  are  induced  in 
the  metal  partition.  On  either  side  of  the  partition  the  complete  field  is 
the  result  of  the  superposition  of  fields  representing  various  transmission 
modes.     The  cutoff  frequencies  of  these  modes  may  be  arranged  in  an 


(a)  (b)  (c) 

Fig.  7 — Inductive,  capacitive,  and  resonant  irises. 


increasing  sequence.  If  the  operating  frequency  is  between  the  lowest 
cutoff  frequency  and  the  next  higher,  the  propagation  constants  of  all 
modes  except  the  dominant  are  real  and  the  corresponding  fields  will  not 
extend  very  far  from  the  iris.  During  one-half  cycle  the  local  field  with- 
draws energy  from  the  dominant  wave — this  being  the  only  source  of  energy 
— and  during  the  remaining  half  this  energy  is  returned.  The  local  field 
acts  as  a  virtual  source  of  power — "virtual"  since  it  operates  on  borrowed 
power.  On  account  of  symmetry  the  dominant  waves  generated  by  this 
virtual  source  and  traveling  in  opposite  directions  will  be  of  equal  intensities. 
The  scattered  wave  traveling  toward  the  source  of  the  incident  wave  is 
called  the  wave  reflected  from  the  iris;  on  the  other  side  the  scattered  and 
incident  waves  merge  into  the  transmitted  wave.  The  storage  of  energy 
in  the  local  field  depends  on  the  frequency — hence,  the  frequency  selec- 
tivity. 

In  the  case  shown  in  Fig.  (7a)  the  flow  of  current  in  the  partition  is  un- 
impeded and  there  is  no  tendency  for  any  local  concentration  of  charge  in 
the  partition;  the  local  field  is  largely  magnetic  and  the  iris  represents  an 


502  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

inductive  reactance.  Since  any  variation  of  the  magnetic  field  with  time 
always  creates  an  electric  field,  there  will  be  some  capacitance  in  parallel 
with  the  inductance.  The  same  idea  may  be  expressed  by  saying  that  the 
inductance  of  the  iris  is  not  quite  independent  of  the  frequency.  This 
lack  of  constancy  is  not  peculiar  to  ultra-high  frequencies;  it  is  true  of 
coils  at  low  frequencies.  Likewise,  even  at  very  low  frequencies  the  in- 
ductance varies  with  the  frequency  because  of  skin  effect. 

In  the  iris  shown  in  Fig.  (7b)  there  are  alternating  charge  concentrations 
on  the  upper  and  lower  partitions.  The  local  field  is  largely  electric  and 
the  iris  is  capacitive.  A  feeble  magnetic  field  associated  with  charging 
current  is  unavoidable,  of  course;  this  is  also  true  of  capacitors  at  low 
frequencies  but  this  time  the  effect  is  greater.  Finally,  an  iris  of  the  type 
shown  in  Fig.  (7c)  may  be  designed  to  behave  as  an  antiresonant  circuit. 

In  that  frequency  range  in  which  only  the  dominant  wave  is  an  effective 
carrier  of  power  to  great  distances,  any  discontinuity  will  behave  as  a 
reactive  T  or  Il-network — assuming  that  observations  are  made  at  some 
distance  from  the  iris  where  the  local  field  is  too  feeble  to  count.  This 
could  not  be  otherwise  since  there  are  three  parameters  at  our  disposal: 
two  reflection  coefficients  for  waves  traveling  in  opposite  directions  and 
one  transmission  coefficient  across  the  discontinuity.  The  Reciprocity 
Theorem  requires  that  the  transmission  coefficients  in  the  two  directions 
be  equal.  These  three  parameters  determine  the  ratios  of  the  reactance 
elements  of  the  equivalent  T  or  Il-network  to  the  characteristic  impedance 
of  the  guide. 

If  the  operating  frequency  exceeds  the  second  cutoff  frequency,  other 
waves  besides  the  dominant  become  effective  carriers  of  power  and  the 
equivalent  network  for  the  iris  becomes  more  complicated.  The  iris  behaves 
not  only  as  a  dissipative  impedance  to  the  dominant  wave  but  also  as  a 
negative  resistance,  to  one  or  more  higher  order  waves. 

Boundaries 

So  far  we  have  paid  little  attention  to  the  boundaries  of  the  electro- 
magnetic field.  Strictly  speaking,  in  any  actual  situation  the  field  always 
extends  to  infinity;  the  only  boundaries  there  are,  are  the  geometric  bound- 
aries between  media  with  different  electromagnetic  properties.  This 
means  that  we  should  solve  electromagnetic  equations  for  each  homogeneous 
region,  or  region  with  analytically  varying  properties,  and  then  match 
the  solutions  at  the  boundaries.  In  many  cases,  however,  this  procedure 
would  be  very  complicated  and  quite  unnecessary.  In  the  case  of  a  cylin- 
drical metal  tube  with  a  dipole  as  a  source  of  power  the  exact  solution  may 
be  represented  as  a  particularly  formidable  integral;  but  experimentally 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  503 

we  would  not  be  able  to  detect  any  difference  between  the  ''exact"  solution 
and  a  much  simpler  approximate  solution. 

In  the  case  of  rectangular  tubes  we  don't  even  know  how  to  obtain  the 
''exact"  solution  in  any  form;  but  good  approximate  solutions  are  exceed- 
ingly simple.  The  word  "exact"  is  in  quotation  marks  because  there  can 
be  no  really  exact  solutions  of  actual  physical  problems.  In  the  first  place 
the  properties  of  materials  are  not  known  exactly;  the  boundaries  between 
media  do  not  exist  in  the  exact  sense  of  the  term;  and  we  just  don't  know 
the  exact  laws  of  nature.  All  we  really  want  of  any  solution  is  to  be  ac- 
curate enough  for  some  particular  purpose.  And  here  is  where  the  idea 
of  ideaHzed  boundaries  helps  in  the  formulation  of  simplified,  clear-cut 
mathematical  problems.  The  idea  lends  flesh  and  blood  to  ideaHzed 
mathematical  boundary  conditions.  Perfect  conductors  have  long  been 
mentioned  in  literature  as  idealizations  of  good  conductors;  but  other 
types  of  boundaries  are  of  much  more  recent  origin.  Perfect  conductors 
are  boundaries  of  zero  surface  impedance]  they  support  electric  currents  of 
finite  strength  when  the  tangential  electric  intensity  is  zero.  At  these 
boundaries  the  tangential  magnetic  intensity  is  different  from  zero.  The 
natural  counterpart  is  a  boundary  of  infinite  impedance  at  which  the  tan- 
gential magnetic  intensity  vanishes  but  the  tangential  electric  intensity 
does  not.  The  further  generalization  is  a  boundary  with  a  given  finite 
surface  impedance  which  is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  two  mutually  perpendic- 
ular tangential  components  of  the  electric  and  magnetic  intensity.  The 
boundary  may  be  isotropic,  with  its  surface  impedance  the  same  in  all 
directions;  likewise,  the  boundary  may  be  aelotropic.  The  surface  imped- 
ance is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  tangential  components  of  E  and  H.  Since 
it  is  necessary  to  adopt  a  convention  regarding  "positive  directions"  of 
E  and  H,  these  are  so  chosen  that  a  right-handed  screw  will  advance  into 
the  boundary  if  its  handle  is  turned  through  90°  from  the  positive  direction 
of  E  to  coincide  with  the  positive  direction  of  H.  In  accordance  with  this 
convention  the  positive  real  part  of  the  surface  impedance  is  associated 
with  an  average  flow  of  power  into  the  boundary — that  is,  with  a  passive 
boundary.  An  active  boundary  is  a  boundary  with  a  negative  surface  re- 
sistance; such  boundaries  may  be  used  to  represent  idealized  generators  of 
electromagnetic  waves  and  to  eliminate  from  explicit  consideration  the 
internal  mechanisms  of  these  generators. 

Field  Equations 

Thus  far  I  have  tried  to  present  the  ideas  behind  the  physical  and  mathe- 
matical analysis  of  electromagnetic  transmission  phenomena.  These  are 
broader  than  the  electromagnetic  laws  themselves  and,  with  some  super- 


504  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

ticial  modilications,  would  apply  to  sound  waves,  for  instance.  There  are 
two  fundamental  equations  of  transmission  of  an  electromagnetic  state, 
expressing  Faraday's  law  of  induction  of  an  electromotive  force  by  a  mag- 
netic displacement  current  and  Ampere-Maxwell's  law  of  induction  of  a 
magnetomotive  force  by  an  electric  current.  In  their  most  general  mathe- 
matical form  the  equations  are 


/ 


J^.d^=-lj\^ti^is, 


I 


H.  ds  =  I  j  p:v.  dS  +  II  gE„  dS  +  ^^  II  tE,.  dS, 


(10) 


where  the  subscript  s  indicates  components  tangential  to  a  closed  path  of 
integration  and  the  subscript  n  designates  components  normal  to  any 
surface  bounded  by  this  closed  path.  Thus  on  the  left  we  have  ''sums"  of 
infinitesimal  emf's  and  mmf's  as  we  travel  round  some  closed  curve  either 
on  the  surface  of  a  wire  or  just  in  free  space,  and  on  the  right  we  have  total 
magnetic  and  electric  currents  linked  with  this  curve.  According  to  our 
present  physical  conceptions  the  magnetic  current  is  always  a  displacement 
current  defined  as  the  time  rate  of  change  of  magnetic  flux  or  ''displacement". 
Not. that  there  is  anything  inconceivable  about  an  actual  flow  of  magnetic 
charge;  it  is  simply  that  so  far  there  has  been  no  satisfactory  evidence  of 
its  existence.  In  the  mathematical  analysis  it  has  long  been  a  custom  to 
consider  magnetic  charges  of  opposite  signs  as  if  they  existed;  but  this  is 
merely  for  convenience. 

The  electric  current,  on  the  other  hand,  consists  of  three  components: 
the  convection  current  whose  density  is  the  product  of  the  electric  charge 
density  p  and  the  velocity  v\  the  conduction  current  whose  density  is  pro- 
portional to  the  electric  intensity  (the  gE  term  in  the  above  equation)  and 
the  displacement  current  defined  as  the  time  rate  of  change  of  the  electric 
displacement.  Strictly  speaking,  the  conduction  current  is  a  convection 
current  but  of  such  a  kind  that  it  would  be  extremely  awkward  to  think  of 
it  in  terms  of  charged  particles  and  their  velocities. 

At  the  same  time  the  statistical  result  of  the  irregular  movements  of 
these  particles  can  be  expressed,  for  purposes  of  transmission  of  an  electro- 
magnetic state,  as  a  continuous  movement  of  charge  encountering  some 
resistance.  There  are,  of  course,  such  phenomena  as  resistance  noise  which 
are  thus  automatically  excluded  from  consideration. 

In  general  to  these  electromagnetic  transmission  equations  we  should 
add  the  dynamical  equations  of  motion  of  electric  charge;  this  is  essential 
when  dealing  with  vacuum  tubes.  But,  in  considering  passive  transmission 
systems,  we  either  omit  the  convection  current  altogether,  or  else  assume 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  505 

that  the  velocities  of  the  charged  particles  are  specified,  and  that  the  forces 
which  they  exert  on  each  other  are  completely  neutralized  by  the  forces 
external  to  the  field,  in  which  case  the  convection  current  appears  merely 
as  an  ''impressed  current". 

Except  for  the  above  restrictions,  equations  (10)  form  a  complete  set; 
but  for  mathematical  convenience  two  other  equations  are  usually  ad- 
joined.    These  are 

II  eEndS  =  q, 

(11) 

jj    nHndS    =    0, 

where  the  double  integration  is  extended  over  a  closed  surface.  The  first 
of  these  equations  states  that  the  total  electric  displacement  through  a 
closed  surface  is  equal  to  the  net  enclosed  electric  charge;  the  second  denies 
the  physical  existence  of  magnetic  charge.  These  equations  can  be  derived 
from  (10)  and  for  this  reason  are  not  quite  on  the  same  footing  with  them. 

B  Vbo  =  o  D 


r 


— I 1 — 


A  Vac=0  C 

Fig.  8 — A  pair  of  parallel  wires. 

Equation  (10)  tells  us  that,  except  when  the  field  is  static,  we  cannot 
speak  of  the  electromotive  force  or  the  voltage  between  two  points  without 
specifying  the  path  along  which  we  add  up  the  elementary  voltages.  In 
fact,  equation  (10)  gives  us  the  difference  between  the  voltages  along  two 
different  paths  connecting  the  same  pair  of  points.  To  illustrate,  consider 
a  wave  along  a  pair  of  perfectly  conducting  wires.  Fig.  8.  Voltages  I  ac 
and  Vbd  along  the  wires  are  equal  to  zero;  transverse  voltages  Vab  and  Vcd 
are  usually  unequal;  hence  Vabd  ^  Vacd  • 

If  two  points  are  infinitely  close,  then  we  can  define  the  voltage  un- 
ambiguously as  the  product  Esds  of  the  electric  intensity  and  the  distance 
between  the  points.  The  difference  between  this  voltage  and  the  voltage 
along  any  other  infinitesimal  path  is  an  infinitesimal  of  the  second  order, 
being  dependent  on  the  area  enclosed  by  the  two  paths.  In  practice  two 
points  are  sufficiently  close  if  the  distance  between  them  is  small  compared 
with  one  quarter  wavelength. 

Since,  except  in  electrostatics,  we  cannot  speak  of  the  voltage  between 
two  points  without  specifying  the  path,  we  cannot  speak  of  the  potential 


506  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

diference.  In  mathematical  terms  we  should  say  that  the  differential 
voltage  in  a  varying  electromagnetic  field  is  not  an  exact  differential.  To 
illustrate:  2x  dx  +  2y  dy  is  an  exact  differential  equal  to  d{x^  +  y'^)  and 
for  this  reason  its  integral  depends  only  on  the  difference  between  the  values 
of  {x^  +  y"^)  at  the  end  points  of  the  path  of  integration ;  but  2x  dx  +  2x  dy 
is  not  an  exact  differential  and  cannot  be  integrated  except  when  y  is  given 
in  terms  of  x  so  that  the  path  of  integration  is  prescribed. 

If  equations  (10)  are  applied  to  infinitesimal  closed  curves,  the  following 
differential  equations  are  obtained: 

curl£=-M^,         curlff  =  g£  +  .^.  (12) 

The  expressions  curl  E  and  curl  H  are  merely  the  symbols  for  the  maximum 
emf 's  and  mmf's  per  unit  area.  These  equations  are  not  as  general  as  (10) 
because  they  assume  that  E  and  H  are  continuous  and  at  least  once  differ- 
entiable.  The  equations  do  not  hold  across  the  boundary  between  different 
media,  where  they  have  to  be  supplemented  by  the  so-called  boundary 
conditions  which  are  obtained  from  (10).  Equations  (12)  do  not  hold  at  a 
wavefront  where  E  and  H  are  discontinuous;  there  also  we  have  to  supple- 
ment them  by  appropriate  boundary  conditions,  which  connect  the  solutions 
on  the  two  sides  of  the  wavefront. 

Analytic  Functions 

An  advance  of  fundamental  importance  is  made  when  the  field  intensities 
are  represented  by  complex  quantities  E  e"^^  and  H  e"^^  where  co  is  the  fre- 
quency in  radians.    The  equations  become 

curl  £  =  -  ;coM  H,        curl  H  =  {g  ^  jcce)E,  (13) 

and  are  thus  freed  from  one  independent  variable,  the  time  /.  This  does 
not  mean  that  we  have  restricted  our  analysis  to  steady  state  fields;  Fourier 
analysis  supplies  a  general  rule  for  passing  from  steady  states  to  any  state 
whatsoever.  Computational  difficulties  are  great  but  no  greater  than  they 
would  be  in  any  other  method. 

A  still  more  important  advance  is  made  when  the  field  intensities  are 
represented  by  E  e^\  H  e^\  where  the  oscillation  constant  p  =  ^  -\-  joj  is  a 
complex  number.    The  equations  become 

curl  E=  -  pnH,        curl  H  =  {g  +  p  €)E.  (14) 

The  solutions  of  these  equations  are  analytic  functions  of  the  complex 
variable  p  and  a  way  is  open  for  application  of  the  theory  of  functions  of  a 
complex  variable. 


lEilkCTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  507 

Thus  if  we  write 

^^Ze^/,         H^Zhr,p\  (15) 

n=0  n=0 

and  substitute  in  (14),  we  obtain 

curl  eo  =  0,  curl  Cn+i  =  —  fi  hn, 

curl  ho  =  geo,         curl  hn+i  =  gCn+i  +  ee  n. 


(16) 


If  these  equations  are  solved  subject  to  the  prescribed  boundary  conditions, 
E  and  H  will  be  expressed  as  power  series  in  the  oscillation  constant  p- 

The  function  theory  has  already  been  used  successfully  in  the  restricted 
circuit  theory;  that  is,  in  the  theory  of  finite  networks  composed  of  ideal 
(independent  of  the  frequency)  resistances,  inductances  and  capacitances. 
Likewise,  some  very  general  theorems  have  been  established  concerning 
any  physical  input  impedance.  Whereas  the  poles  and  zeros  of  a  function 
can  be  anywhere  in  the  complex  ^-plane,  the  poles  and  zeros  of  the  input 
impedance  of  a  passive  system  never  lie  to  the  right  of  the  imaginary  axis. 
This  leads  to  a  theorem  to  the  effect  that  all  poles  and  zeros  on  the  imaginary 
axis  are  simple.  The  resistance  components  of  the  input  impedance  on 
the  imaginary  axis  determine  the  reactance  component  and  hence  the 
complete  impedance  function  except  for  a  purely  reactive  impedance.  The 
zeros  and  poles  of  an  impedance  occur  always  in  conjugate  pairs.  These 
are  some  of  the  general  theorems  of  impedance  analysis.  Not  very  long 
ago  I  came  across  an  expression  for  the  input  impedance  of  a  spherical 
antenna  which  was  obtained  by  what  appeared  superficially  as  a  straight- 
forward conventional  method;  but  as  soon  as  I  observed  that  some  poles 
were  situated  to  the  right  of  the  imaginary  axis,  I  knew  that  the  expression 
had  to  be  false.  The  existence  of  poles  in  this  region  meant  a  possibility 
of  oscillations  which  would  increase  indefinitely  of  their  own  accord. 

The  difference  between  finite  and  infinite  networks  consists  in  that  the 
former  possess  a  finite  number  of  zeros  and  poles.  All  physical  structures 
always  possess  an  infinite  number  of  such  singularities;  but  a  finite  number 
of  them  may  form  a  cluster  in  the  vicinity  of  the  origin,  far  removed  from 
all  other  zeros  and  poles.  When  this  happens  we  have  a  physical  finite 
network.  In  a  reactive  network  all  zeros  and  poles  lie  on  the  imaginary 
axis.  In  a  slightly  dissipative  system  these  zeros  and  poles  move  a  little 
to  the  left  of  the  imaginary  axis.  This  happens,  for  instance,  in  the  case 
of  a  thin  antenna.  The  field  in  the  vicinity  of  a  thin  wire  is  large  and  the 
radiated  power  is  only  a  small  fraction  of  the  stored  energy.  The  distribu- 
tion of  poles  (the  solid  circles)  and  zeros  (the  hollow  circles)  is  illustrated 


508 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


in  Fig.  9.  The  zero  frequency  is  always  a  pole  for  an  open  type  antenna 
and  a  zero  for  a  perfectly  conducting  loop  antenna.  As  the  frequency 
passes  through  a  zero,  the  antenna  impedance  passes  through  a  minimum. 
As  the  frequency  goes  through  a  pole,  the  antenna  impedance  passes  through 
a  maximum.  The  disposition  of  zeros  and  poles  gives  us  a  qualitative  idea 
of  the  behavior  of  the  impedance  as  the  frequency  varies. 

As  the  radius  of  the  antenna  increases,  the  zeros  and  poles  move  farther 
to  the  left  of  the  imaginary  axis.  At  the  same  time  some  zeros  and  poles, 
which  for  a  thin  antenna  are  so  far  to  the  left  that  they  have  very  Httle 
effect  on  the  impedance,  move  nearer  the  origin.  For  spherical  antennas 
the  number  of  zeros  and  poles  around  the  origin  is  considerably  larger  than 
for  thin  doublets. 


0 

U) 

• 

o 

4 

o 

• 

o 

Fig.  9 — Distribution  of  zeros  and  poles  in  a  dipole  antenna:  solid  circles 
represent  poles;  hollow  circles  zeros. 


Circuit  and  Field  Equations 

In  conclusion  I  should  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  the  relationship 
between  Kirchhoff's  circuit  equations  and  Maxwell's  field  equations.  Are 
the  former  approximations;  and,  if  so,  in  what  sense?  The  answer  depends 
on  what  is  meant  by  Kirchhoff's  equations,  for  their  meaning  has  changed 
with  passing  years.  It  was  exactly  a  hundred  years  ago  that  Kirchhoff 
stated  his  equations  in  a  kind  of  postscript  to  his  paper  in  Poggendorf 
Annalen;  but  he  contemplated  only  the  d-c  networks.  Yet  nowadays 
we  interpret  these  equations  in  such  a  way  that  they  are  applicable  to  a-c 
circuits.  Some  thirty  years  went  by  before  Maxwell  thus  generalized  the 
original  Kirchhoff  equations  with  the  aid  of  Lagrange's  concepts.  Maxwell 
wrote  his  circuit  equations  (not  the  field  equations)  in  a  form  applicable 
only  to  networks  with  a  finite  number  of  degrees  of  freedom;  but  nowadays 


ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD  ANALYSIS  509 

we  interpret  these  equations  in  such  a  way  that  we  can  apply  them  to  one- 
dimensional  transmission  lines.  In  so  doing  we  refrain  from  making  ap- 
proximations which  we  normally  make  when  applying  Kirchhoff  laws  to 
networks  of  lumped  elements.  In  the  latter  case  it  is  usual  to  ignore  the 
inductance  of  the  connecting  leads  or  rather  the  inductance  associated 
with  the  loop  formed  by  the  leads;  but  in  the  case  of  two-wire  transmission 
lines  the  "connecting  leads"  constitute  the  entire  network  and  the  loop 
inductance  is  no  longer  ignored.  In  the  case  of  lumped  networks  the 
capacitance  between  the  connecting  leads  is  normally  neglected;  but  this 
capacitance  is  scrupulously  included  in  the  analysis  of  two-wire  lines  since 
in  this  case  the  "lead  capacitance"  is  all  the  capacitance  there  is.  And  I 
have  already  referred  to  a  recent  contribution  of  Kron's  who  presented  a 
three-dimensional  network  such  that  if  we  apply  Kirchhoff 's  laws  to  it,  we 
shall  obtain  Maxwell's  field  equations.  The  merger  between  the  two  points 
of  view  is  now  complete.  In  its  growth,  each  theory  has  developed  concepts 
peculiar  to  itself.  The  net  result  is  that  we  are  now  in  a  position  to  under- 
stand electromagnetic  phenomena  better  than  ever. 


The  Evolution  of  the  Quartz  Crystal  Clock* 

By  WARREN  A.  HARRISON 

SOME  of  the  earliest  documents  in  human  history  relate  to  man's  interest 
in  timekeeping.  This  interest  arose  partly  because  of  his  curiosity  about 
the  visible  world  around  him,  and  partly  because  the  art  of  time  measure- 
ment became  an  increasingly  important  part  of  living  as  the  need  for  cooper- 
ation between  the  members  of  expanding  groups  increased.  There  are  still  in 
existence  devices  believed  to  have  been  made  by  the  Egyptians  six  thousand 
years  ago  for  the  purpose  of  telling  time  from  the  stars,  and  there  is  good 
reason  to  believe  that  they  were  in  quite  general  use  by  the  better  educated 
people  of  that  period.^  Since  that  period  there  has  been  a  continuous  use 
and  improvement  of  timekeeping  methods  and  devices,  following  sometimes 
quite  independent  lines,  but  developing  through  a  long  series  of  new  ideas 
and  refinements  into  the  very  precise  means  at  our  disposal  today. 

The  art  of  timekeeping  and  time  measurement  is  of  very  great  value,  both 
from  its  direct  social  use  in  permitting  time  tables  and  schedules  to  be  made, 
and  in  its  relation  to  other  arts  and  the  sciences  in  which  the  measurement 
of  rate  and  duration  assume  ever  increasing  importance.  The  early  history 
of  timekeeping  was  concerned  almost  entirely  with  the  first  of  these  and  for 
many  centuries  the  chief  purpose  of  timekeeping  devices  was  to  provide 
means  for  the  approximate  subdivision  of  the  day,  particularly  of  the  day- 
light hours. 

The  most  obvious  events  marking  the  passage  of  time  were  the  rising  and 
setting  of  the  sun  and  its  continuous  apparent  motion  from  east  to  west 
through  the  sky.  The  first  practical  measure  of  the  position  of  the  sun  of 
which  any  record  is  known  was  the  position  or  the  length  of  shadows  of 
fixed  objects,  resulting  through  a  long  period  of  development  in  the  well- 
known  sundial  in  its  many  forms.  But  the  sundial  was  in  no  sense  an 
instrument  of  precision  and  in  no  sense  could  be  considered  as  a  time  keeping 
device.  Even  after  the  development  which  resulted  in  mounting  the 
gnomon  parallel  with  the  axis  of  the  earth,  the  largest,  most  elaborate,  and 
most  carefully  made  instruments  could  at  best  indicate  local  solar  time. 
Furthermore,  the  sundial  has  value  only  in  daylight  hours  and  then  only  on 

*  The  subject  matter  of  this  paper  was  given  before  the  British  Horological  Institute  in 
London  on  the  occasion  of  the  presentation  of  the  Horological  Institute's  Gold  Metal  for 
1947  to  Mr.  Marrison  in  consideration  of  his  contribution  toward  the  development  of  the 
quartz  crystal  clock.  The  present  text  is  substantially  as  published  in  the  Horological 
Journal. 

510 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  511 

days  when  the  sun  shines  clearly  enough  to  cast  a  shadow.  These  short- 
comings became  more  and  more  important  with  advances  in  society  and, 
for  measuring  duration,  man  soon  began  inventing  timekeeping  means  that 
would  work  without  benefit  of  the  sun. 

The  evolution  of  timekeeping  devices  may  be  divided  into  three  main 
periods,  each  employing  a  specific  type  of  method,  although  overlapping  to 
some  degree  in  their  applications,  and  characterized  by  increasing  orders  of 
accuracy. 

A  graphical  representation  of  this  evolution,  indicating  these  three  periods 
of  development,  and  showing  the  relation  between  some  of  the  major  contri- 
butions to  time  keeping  and  the  resulting  accuracy  of  time  measurement,  is 
shown  in  Fig.  1.  The  methods  employed  chiefly  during  these  three  periods 
may  be  classified  broadly  as  CONTINUOUS  FLOW  from  the  beginning  up 
until  about  1000  A.D.,  as  APERIODIC  CONTROL  from  then  until  about 
1675  A.D.  and  as  RESONANCE  CONTROL  from  that  time  up  to  the 
present.  Keeping  in  mind  the  logarithmic  nature  of  the  time  and  accuracy 
scales  used  in  this  graph,  it  can  be  seen  readily  that  most  of  the  advance- 
ment has  been  made  in  a  very  small  part  of  the  total  time,  corresponding  to 
the  resonance  control  epoch. 

The  Epoch  of  Continuous  Flow 

Perhaps  due  to  a  feeling  that  the  passage  of  time  was  like  the  flow  of  some 
medium,  the  first  time  measuring  devices  were  those  depending  on  the  flow 
of  water  into  or  out  of  suitable  basins.  It  was  recognized  that,  with  an 
orifice  properly  chosen,  the  time  required  to  fill  or  empty  a  given  basin  should 
be  about  the  same  on  repetition,  and  hence  was  born  the  first  reliable  means 
for  measuring  time  at  night  or  on  overcast  days.  A  great  variety  of  devices 
operating  on  this  principle  were  constructed  and  used,  some  of  the  earliest 
having  been  made  by  the  Babylonians  and  the  Egyptians  3500  years  ago. 

Some  of  these  water  clocks,  or  clepsydra  as  they  were  called,  had  floats 
or  other  indicators  which  were  intended  to  subdivide  a  unit  of  time  into 
substantially  ^uniform  divisions.  Others  were  constructed  so  that  successive 
fillings  of  the  basin  would  be  counted  or  would  operate  a  stepping  device, 
associated  with  a  dial  or  other  indicator.  Through  the  centuries  great 
numbers  of  such  devices  were  constructed,  with  some  of  the  later  ones  having 
elaborate  mechanisms  for  striking  the  hours  or  for  animating  figures  of 
people  or  animals. 

For  use  in  places  where  water  was  not  readily  available  and  where  sand 
was  plentiful,  clepsydra  were  developed  that  would  operate  with  the  flow 
of  sand  in  much  the  same  way  as  with  the  flow  of  water.  The  basic  ideas 
were  not  greatly  diff^erent,  the  substitution  being  merely  one  of  expedience. 


512 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ACCURACY     IN     SECONDS     PER     DAY 


— r-^ 

■BSSS 

'-X?- 



o 

— w- 

^^.^<^ 

z 

y 

' 

< 

A 

z 
o 

ID 

a. 

Xj^^ 

,s: 

_^^ 

-:^ 

1 

_j u       Tt 

^ 

H      QC 

O^rr 

.:> 

\ 

-^■^ 

-11^ 

<.-? 

vs 

o 

a 

urn  , 

n1? 

:-h 

a>o 

fc^ 

Q 

■.■•/••■; 
.vAi;-.-. 

<Q 

HQCz 

'^Ij 

O 

cr 

UJ 
Q. 
< 

oa^ 

ocz 

—  (J)lU  — 
Q- 

UQ^ 

5o 

. •;./.•;■:.: 

9 

o 

ii 

UJ        H 

§s 

.•.■•■•"/■•••.■•■•■.:■ 

O  iiJ 

-1 

^.5 

en  LU 

o 

all 
uu 

> 

< 

o 

z 

•■.v.-  Q •■;■■.• 

CD 

o 

::  -O  •••.: 

o 

•■.V  QC  •  •.■- 

ce 

■.■.•.•  u  •■•  • 

<-> 

•.  •.a.-.;;. 

Ul 

•••'•  <0  ■;  •'.■ 

< 

■•.•.•  I  •■.■:• 

-• 

•..■.»-••.■; 

en 

...  •  .  2  •  ••.•. 

UJ 

o 

z 

•.•.•■  >  •  •  ■  • 

< 

^ 

••••■•^  :••■•■ 

u 

o 

.•■:•  <  ■  .■• 
■■■ -.a..  ■.■ 

3 

u. 

:;:-.D  •;.■• 
v.-.-  o;. ••• 

^ 

.••..■  o  ••■.•• 

to 

.••■.••■<■■•••.■ 

s 

3 

O 

:^;::S:v;v 

Q. 

V 

Z 

<-> 

\ 

H 

■ .  •  z  • :  •.  • . 

' 

C/)UJ 

1 

z 

s: 

ze- 

O 

•.  •.-.o  •.•.■.  • 

<j 

0<' 

o 

.•.■••  ^  •:•.•.■ 

•;.';.;.■  w)  •■.•;•;•. 

■-■.•.'■'  ui  ••.•.■ 
•■;.■  H  .••.•■ 

CO 

cr 
o 

e 

< 
* 

cri 

LL  111 

Oz 

•.•.■•    -».••.' 

yj 

z 
z 

=5 
«/1 

S 

z 

< 

5 

u. 
O 

o 

ee 

a. 

o 
o 
o 

d  o 
o 


o     •£ 

a 
en  4^ 
<    E 


O  be 

CD        '^ 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


513 


The  hour  glass,  and  its  smaller  counterparts,  is  one  of  the  most  convenient 
forms  of  this  device  and  until  quite  recent  times  served  a  useful  purpose 
where  accuracy  was  of  no  great  importance.  The  hour  glass  shown  in  Fig.  2 
was  used  by  a  pastor  in  the  early  eighteen  hundreds  to  determine  the  length 
of  his  sermons.  The  average  variation  among  a  set  of  ten  one-hour  de- 
terminations made  recently  with  this  glass  was  3  minutes,  or  about  5  per  cent. 
The  clepsydra  that  were  designed  to  repeat  and  totalize  an  endless  succes- 
sion of  cycles  were  especially  adaptable  to  the  measurement  of  extended 
intervals  of  time,  although  with  very  poor  accuracy  as  we  now  think  of  it. 


Fig.  2 — Hour  glass. 

By  suitable  design  any  desired  number  of  cycles  could  be  made  equal  to  the 
natural  large  unit,  the  day,  so  that  any  fraction  of  a  day  within  the  accuracy 
of  a  given  instrument  could  be  determined  simply  by  counting  off  the 
number  of  cycles  from  a  particular  starting  point  such  as  sunrise,  sunset,  or 
high  noon.  It  was  possible  with  these  devices  to  operate  without  calibra- 
tion over  periods  of  several  days,  although  the  cumulative  error  inevitably 
was  very  large. 

An  error  of  a  few  hours  was  of  small  importance  in  the  days  when  the 
speed  of  communication  and  travel  alike  depended  on  pack  animals  or  the 
caprices  of  the  wind.  And  so,  in  spite  of  the  inaccuracies  of  the  water  clocks 
and  sand  clocks,  they  served  their  purpose  well  through  many  centuries. 


514  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

In  fact,  it  was  not  until  the  tenth  century  A.D.  that  any  really  novel  effort 
was  made  to  improve  upon  them  as  timekeepers.  The  first  efforts  to 
improve  upon  them,  making  use  of  falling  weights  for  motive  power  and 
various  frictional  devices  to  control  the  rate  of  fall,  were  not  very  successful 
because  no  satisfactory  means  were  known  to  keep  a  friction-controlled 
device  sufficiently  constant  for  the  job.  Clocks  so  constructed  were  no 
better  timekeepers  on  the  whole  than  the  traditional  clepsydra.  They  had, 
however,  the  hope  of  compactness,  and  much  ingenuity  was  exercised  in 
their  design  over  several  centuries. 

Also  in  the  category  of  continuous  flow  devices  should  be  mentioned  the 
methods  depending  on  the  rate  of  burning,  such  as  in  time  candles,  time 
lamps  and  their  numerous  variations.  Such  timekeepers  are  not  very 
accurate  but  are  thoroughly  reliable  in  dry,  quiet  places,  even  providing 
their  own  illumination  at  night.  Such  timekeepers  are  known  to  have  been 
used  before  the  tenth  century  A.D.  and  certain  variations  still  are  used  by  a 
few  isolated  tribes,  especially  in  the  tropics. 

The  Epoch  of  Aperiodic  Control 

In  or  about  the  year  1360  the  invention  of  an  escapement  mechanism  for 
controlling  an  alternating  motion  from  a  steady  motive  power,  such  as  a 
suspended  weight,  was  the  first  really  important  step  in  the  history  of  pre- 
cision clock  development,  and  marks  the  beginning  of  the  second  major 
epoch  in  timekeeping  evolution.  The  escapement  in  one  form  or  another 
was  soon  applied  in  practically  all  timekeepers,  the  most  outstanding  example 
of  an  early  application  being  a  clock  constructed  by  Henry  De  Vick  for 
Charles  V  of  France  in  or  about  the  year  1360  A.D.  and  still  in  use — with 
extensive  modifications — in  the  Palais  de  Justice  in  Paris. 

This  invention  was  important,  not  because  De  Vick's  clock,  or  any  of  its 
immediate  successors,  were  good  timekeepers,  but  because  this  was  the 
first  time  that  vibratory  motion  in  a  mechanism  was  used  deliberately  to 
control  the  rate  of  a  time-measuring  device.  All  precision  clocks  depend  in 
one  way  or  another  on  using  energy  to  produce  vibratory  motion,  and  on 
using  the  rate  of  that  motion  to  regulate  suitable  dials  and  other  mechanisms. 

No  simple  improvement  on  De  Vick's  clock  could  ever  have  produced  a 
precision  clock  in  the  modern  sense,  however,  because  the  essential  rate- 
controlling  feature  was  still  lacking.  His  invention  consisted  of  the  use  of 
a  verge  escapement  which  produced  oscillatory  motion  in  a  dynamically 
balanced  member,  known  as  a  foliot  balance,  having  essentially  only  mo- 
ment of  inertia  and  friction.  The  rate  of  oscillation,  therefore,  depended  to 
a  large  extent  on  the  applied  force  exerted  by  the  falling  weight  through  a 
train  of  wheels,  and  upon  the  friction  of  the  escapement  parts  and  of  the 
oscillating  member  itself. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  515 

This  sort  of  operation  is  known  sometimes  as  relaxation  oscillatiort  and 
appears  in  many  forms.  In  the  clock,  the  rate-controlling  feature  depends 
upon  the  length  of  time  it  takes  a  member  having  a  given  moment  of  inertia 
to  move  from  one  angular  position  to  another  under  a  given  applied  torque. 
Thus,  the  rate  depends  to  first  order  on  the  applied  torque. 

Although  De  Vick's  clock  was  one  of  the  most  famous  in  all  history,  it  was 
not  because  of  its  good  record  of  timekeeping.  In  its  original  form,  it  is 
said  that  it  often  varied  as  much  as  two  hours  a  day  from  true  time.  Out- 
wardly, this  clock  on  the  Palais  de  Justice  appears  about  the  same  as  it 
did  originally,  but  the  "works"  have  been  modernized  and  it  keeps  much 
better  time  now. 

The  history  of  timekeeping  during  the  next  three  hundred  years  consisted 
mainly  in  improvements  and  in  a  great  variety  of  applications  of  the  prin- 
ciples contained  in  De  Vick's  clock.  During  this  period  great  numbers  of 
clocks  of  all  sizes,  from  tower  clocks  to  portable  table  clocks  were  made, 
controlled  by  various  forms  of  the  crown  wheel,  verge  and  foliot  balance. 
All  of  these  timekeepers  belong  to  the  class  that  we  have  just  called  aperiodic. 
Their  accuracy,  in  general,  was  still  poor  and  the  indicator  on  their  dials 
consisted  of  but  one  hand — the  hour  hand.  It  was  not  until  the  invention 
and  application  of  the  pendulum  that  the  next  major  improvement  was 
born  in  timekeeping. 

The  Epoch  or  Resonajnt  Control 

All  that  has  been  said  so  far  is  a  prelude  to  the  shortest  but  by  far  the  most 
productive  epoch  in  timekeeping,  that  of  resonant  control.  The  heart  of 
every  precision  clock  is  an  oscillatory  device  which  depends  upon  resonance 
for  its  constancy  of  rate.  The  history  of  precision  clock  development  con- 
sists largely  of  the  choice  and  design  of  stable  resonant  elements  and  of 
devising  means  for  using  them  so  that  as  far  as  possible  their  inherent 
properties  alone  control  their  rates  of  oscillation.  Once  in  stable  oscilla- 
tion, it  is  only  necessary  to  control  the  indicating  of  dials  and  other  suitable 
mechanisms  in  order  to  constitute  a  complete  clock.*  Presumably  this 
can  always  be  done,  but  in  some  cases  it  is  more  convenient  to  do  than  in 
others,  as  will  appear. 

The  resonant  element  may  be  any  of  a  wide  variety  of  forms,  mechanical 
or  electrical,  all  characterized  by  the  single  property  that,  if  deformed  from 
a  rest  condition  and  released,  the  stored  energy  is  transformed  back  and 
forth  from  potential  to  kinetic  at  a  rate  depending  chiefly  on  the  effective 
mass  and  the  effective  stiffness,  or  other  like  properties,  a  small  proportion 

*  Encycl.  Brit.  14th  Ed.  "A  clock  consists  of  a  train  of  wheels,  actuated  by  a  spring  or 
weight  or  other  means,  and  provided  with  an  oscillating  governing  device  which  so  regulates 
the  speed  as  to  render  it  uniform." 


516 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


of  the  energy  being  lost  in  internal  friction  at  each  oscillation.  Some 
resonant  elements  which  have  been  used  in  timekeepers  are  illustrated  in 
Fig.  3. 

The  simplest  appearing  of  all  these  is  that  of  a  mass,  M,  supported  by  a 
spring  with  stiffness,  S.     From  the  equation  of  motion 


Sx  =  M 


d  X 
If 


X.W 


ELECTRICAL    RESONANT 
CIRCUIT 


GRAVITY    PENDULUM 


STEEL  OR  QUARTZ 
TUNING  FORK 


£ 


STEEL  OR  QUARTZ   ROD 

IN  FLEXURE  OR 

LONGITUDINAL    VIBRATION 


HAIRSPRING    AND 
BALANCE 


VERTICAL 
PENDULUM 


Fig,  3t— Typical  resonant  elements  used  in  timekeeping. 


the  period  of  oscillation  may  be  derived  simply  and  is  found  to  be 


=   2.^": 


M 

S 


Similarly  for  the  simple  electrical  resonant  circuit  where  current  flowing 
in  an  inductance,  L,  behaves  like  a  mass,  and  current  flowing  in  a  condenser,. 
C,  behaves  like  the  reciprocal  of  a  stiffness,  the  period  may  be  written. 

T  =  IttVLC 

Similar  expressions  are  derivable  for  the  periods  of  oscillation  of  all  simple 
oscillating  systems,  including  the  pendulum  for  which  the  period  (for 
small  amplitudes)  is  given  by 


-vl 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  517 

where  (  and  g  are  respectively  the  length  and  gravity  expressed  in  the  same 
system  of  units,  for  example,  the  c.g.s.  system. 

When  any  such  resonant  element  is  strained  from  its  rest  condition,  and 
released,  it  will  oscillate  with  gradually  decreasing  amplitude  until  all  of 
the  stored  energy  has  been  dissipated  in  internal  friction  or  resistance,  and 
in  the  friction  or  resistance  of  the  coupling  with  the  supports.  In  general, 
the  resulting  amplitude  of  free  oscillation  may  be  given  as 

A  =  AQe~    sin  pt 

the  graph  of  which  is  a  damped  sine  wave.  The  rate  of  free  oscillation,  p, 
is  dependent  chiefly  on  the  effective  mass  and  stiffness  and  to  a  small  degree 
on  the  effective  resistance  of  the  element,  while  the  rate  of  loss  of  amplitude, 
that  is,  the  logarithmic  decrement,  k,  is  dependent  on  the  ratio  of  effective 
resistance  to  effective  mass. 

If  the  resistance  could  be  made  exactly  zero,  such  a  motion  once  started 
would  continue  forever  and  its  rate  would  be  controlled  wholly  by  the 
effective  mass  and  stiffness  of  the  resonant  element.  Actually,  of  course, 
such  a  condition  cannot  be  realized  in  practice  but,  by  the  selection  of 
suitable  materials  and  environment,  and  by  special  control  means,  it  is 
possible  to  approach  very  closely  to  the  ideal  condition  by  causing  the 
oscillation  to  be  maintained  almost  as  though  there  were  no  damping. 

The  evolution  of  precision  timekeeping,  whether  consciously  or  not,  has 
centered  around  the  study  and  development  of  these  two  ideas:  to  discover 
resonant  elements  whose  rate-determining  properties  are  inherently  stable, 
and  to  discover  means  for  sustaining  them  in  oscillation  as  though  they  had 
no  effective  resistance;  or  in  employing  means  to  circumvent  or  to  com- 
pensate for  any  such  resistance.  The  high  precision  of  rate  control  that 
can  now  be  obtained  has  been  the  result  largely  of  developments  in  these 
two  categories. 
The  Pendulum 

The  gravity  pendulum  was  the  first  truly  resonant  element  to  be  used  to 
regulate  the  rate  of  a  clock  and  for  nearly  three  centuries  maintained  the 
supremacy  for  precision  measurements  of  time.  The  pendulum  was  more 
a  discovery  than  an  invention,  the  popular  story  of  its  origin  being  that, 
while  still  a  youth  of  seventeen  years,  Gallileo  Galilei  chanced  to  notice 
that  a  hanging  lamp  in  the  Cathedral  of  Pisa  seemed  to  swing  at  the  same 
rate  regardless  of  amplitude.  This  he  confirmed  approximately  by  com- 
parison with  his  pulse,  and  later  made  an  extensive  study  of  the  isochronism 
of  swinging  bodies.  These  studies  were  in  progress  as  early  as  1583.  Near- 
ly sixty  years  later  Gallileo  described  to  his  son  Vincenzio  how  a  pendulum 
could  be  used  to  control  a  clock,  but  no  concrete  result  of  this  advice  is 
known  to  have  been  made  at  that  time.     A  working  model  of  this  clock. 


518  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

made  subsequently  from  the  original  drawings,  is  on  exhibition  in  the  South 
Kensington  Science  Museum,  London.  The  first  authentic  record  of  the 
actual  use  of  a  pendulum  in  a  clock  is  attributed  to  the  great  Dutch  scientist. 
Christian  Huygens,  who  produced  his  first  pendulum  clock  in  1657.  This 
was  described  by  him  in  the  Horologium  in  1658.- 

The  performance  of  pendulum  clocks  was  so  good  that  almost  immedi- 
ately clocks  of  all  other  types  were  modified  to  include  a  pendulum.  So 
complete  was  this  transformation  that  very  few  unmodified  clocks  are  now 
in  existence  which  antedate  the  first  application  of  the  pendulum  to  time- 
keeping. This,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  is  one  of  the  major  reasons  that  so 
little  is  known  about  the  actual  mechanisms  used  in  mechanical  clocks 
that  were  made  before  the  introduction  of  the  pendulum. 

The  subsequent  history  of  pendulum  clock  development  is  well  described 
in  numerous  books  and  papers  and  covers  a  wide  field.  Only  those  factors 
that  relate  the  pendulum  to  other  means  of  rate  control  will  be  discussed  in 
the  following. 

The  properties  of  a  pendulum  which  make  it  such  a  good  timekeeper  are 
easily  seen  from  a  study  of  the  forces  on  the  bob  as  illustrated  in  Fig.  3. 
Since  these  forces  must  be  in  equilibrium  at  all  times  we  may  write  (as- 
suming no  friction) 


Mg  sin  e  =  Ml 


The  nearl^^  isochronous  property  of  the  pendulum  is  contained  in  this 
relationship  since  the  period,  on  solution,  is 


vi( 


1+4^'"  2+64^'"  2  + 


where  B  is  the  maximum  semi-amplitude  of  swing  expressed  in  radians* 
When  this  arc  is  small  the  period  approaches  a  minimum.  For  smal^ 
angles  the  natural  period  depends  almost  wholly  on  the  ratio  of  /  to  g  and 
the  stability  of  T  depends  chiefly  upon  the  constancy  of  (  and  g.  Figure  4 
shows  the  relation  between  period  and  the  arc  of  swing,  expressed  as  seconds 
per  day  departure  from  the  theoretical  rate  for  zero  arc. 

The  sum  of  all  the  terms  that  depend  upon  powers  of  sin  6/2  is  known  as 
the  circular  error,  relating  to  the  fact  that  the  bob  is  constrained  to  move 
on  the  arc  of  a  circle.  It  was  shown  theoretically  by  Christian  Huygens'' 
that  if  the  bob  could  be  constrained  to  move  on  the  arc  of  an  epicycloid  it 
would  be  truly  isochronous,  that  is,  the  period  would  be  completely  in- 
dependent of  its  amplitude  of  motion.  It  is  of  interest  to  note  at  this 
point  that  in  no  other  resonator  used  for  precision  timekeeping  is  there 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


519 


the  direct  counterpart  of  circular  error,  for  in  all  other  cases  the  restoring 
force  varies  linearly  with  displacement  in  the  region  of  operation  and  not  as 
a  sine  function  of  it. 

In  the  early  stages  of  pendulum  clock  development  it  was  not  necessary 
to  consider  the  arc  error  because  other  errors  were  of  greater  magnitude. 
But  it  is  by  no  means  a  negligible  factor,  and  in  all  precision  timing  by 
pendulums  it  must  be  accounted  for,  either  by  allowing  for  an  arc  correction, 
as  is  done  commonly  in  geodetic  survey  work,  or  by  keeping  the  arc  small 
and  precisely  controlling  it.  According  to  F.  Hope-Jones^,  referring  to  the 
master  pendulum  in  the  famous  Synchronome  free-pendulum  clock:  "A 
variation  of  only  0.01  mm.  in  the  excursion  of  the  bob  or  2  sees,  of  arc  will 
by  circular  error  alter  the  rate  by  0.00145  sec.  per  day, — and  if  it  arose  un- 


0.5  t.O  1.5  2.0  2.5 

LARGEST   ANGLE    FROM   VERTICAL    IN   DEGREES 

Fig.  4 — Relation  between  arc  and  rate  of  pendulum. 


perceived  and  was  steadily  maintained,  it  would  produce  an  accumulated 
error  of  half  a  second  in  a  year,  so  the  necessity  for  this  close  observation 
is  obvious." 

The  control  of  arc  has  almost  invariably  been  accomplished  by  keeping 
constant  the  amount  of  energy  applied  per  swing  so  that  the  actual  ampli- 
tude obtained  is  that  value  for  which  all  of  the  applied  energy  is  dissipated 
in  the  pendulum  system.  In  a  sense  this  method  of  control  of  arc  puts  a 
penalty  on  improvements  in  design  that  would  reduce  the  friction,  because 
the  better  a  pendulum  becomes  in  this  respect  the  less  stable  becomes  the 
arc  control.  Since  even  the  best  pendulums  develop  unexplainable  small 
changes  in  arc,  it  has  been  common  practice  in  some  observatories  to  record 
the  arc  frequently  and  to  make  allowance  for  changes  in  it  when  making 
the  most  precise  time  determinations. 

The  inherent  constancy  of  rate  of  a  pendulum,  with  small  or  constant 
amplitude  of  swing,  depends  to  the  one-half  powxr  on  the  stability  of  l/g. 


520  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  changes  in  t  and  g  are  quite  independent  of  each  other  and  so  can  be 
treated  separately.  Other  factors  that  will  be  described  also  affect  the 
rate,  and  it  is  the  object  in  every  precision  clock  design  to  reduce  such 
variable  effects  to  the  absolute  minimum. 

Some  control  can  be  exercised  over  every  factor  except  g,  which  remains 
a  property  of  space  and  is  dependent  only  on  the  proximity  of  matter  and 
on  acceleration.  As  is  well  known,  the  value  of  g  varies  over  the  surface  of 
the  earth  due  chiefly  to  its  deviation  from  spherical  shape,  and  because  of 
the  uneven  distribution  of  matter.  It  also  varies  with  vertical  displacement 
or  tides  at  any  location  to  such  an  extent  that  a  gravity  clock  that  keeps 
accurate  time  at  ground  level  will  lose  a  second  a  day  or  more  in  a  tall 
building.  Actually,  it  is  now  possible  to  chart  variations  in  g  with  high 
precision  through  measurement  of  the  rate  of  a  pendulum  clock  against  a 
standard  whose  rate  does  not  depend  upon  gravity. 

Most  of  the  factors  that  can  affect  I  have  been  studied  critically  and 
means  have  been  found  to  reduce  them  to  very  small  effects.  The  chief 
source  of  variation  was  at  first  the  temperature  coefficient  of  the  pendulum 
rod.  With  ordinary  metals  the  rod  expands  from  10  to  16  parts  in  a  million 
per  degree  C,  causing  a  proportionate  change  in  rate  of  half  this  amount, 
corresponding  to  from  one-half  to  two-thirds  of  a  second  per  day.  Many 
ingenious  means  were  developed  to  reduce  this  effect,  starting  with  George 
Graham's  mercury-filled  bob  in  1721,  followed  by  John  Harrison's  grid-iron 
pendulum  in  1726,  and  a  great  number  of  variations  on  these  ideas,  all  de- 
pending on  the  differential  coefficient  of  expansion  of  dissimilar  materials. 

About  the  year  1895,  Charles  Edouard  Guillaume  of  Paris  developed  an 
alloy,  consisting  chiefly  of  nickel  and  iron,  which  he  called  Invar,  because 
it  had  a  very  small  temperature  coefficient  of  expansion,  from  which  pen- 
dulum rods  could  be  made.  The  use  of  this  material  made  it  unnecessary 
to  resort  to  complex  compensated  pendulums  with  their  own  inherent  insta- 
bilities, and  the  accuracy  of  timekeeping  was  increased  another  step.  The 
residual  temperature  effects  could  be  measured  readily,  and  compensated 
if  desired,  by  the  use  of  a  small  bar  of  aluminum  attached  to  the  bob. 

Some  other  important  factors  that  affect  the  working  length  of  a  pendu- 
lum are  the  aging  of  the  supporting  rod,  the  "knife  edge"  or  spring  used 
for  the  suspension,  the  nature  of  the  main  supporting  column  or  frame, 
and  some  atmospheric  effects  caused  by  changing  temperature  and  pressure. 
In  the  most  accurate  pendulum  clocks,  the  atmospheric  effects  are  greatly 
reduced  by  mounting  the  pendulum  in  partially  evacuated,  hermetically 
sealed  enclosures  which  can  be  temperature  controlled.  All  of  these  factors 
and  many  others  are  discussed  in  every  good  treatise  on  accurate  pendulum 
clocks.  They  are  mentioned  here  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  comparison 
with  like  factors  in  the  quartz  crystal  clock  and  to  show  how  in  many 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUAJiTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


521 


cases  the  difficulties  introduced  by  such  factors  may  be  more  easily  and 
more  positively  controlled. 

In  every  primary  clock  mechanism  the  resonant  governing  device  must 
be  sustained  in  oscillation,  and  the  manner  in  which  this  is  done  has  a  strong 
bearing  on  its  rate  regardless  of  the  quality  of  the  governing  element.  The 
basic  requirements  are  the  same  for  any  kind  of  oscillator,  whether  a  pen- 
dulum, an  electrically  resonant  circuit  comprising  inductance  and  capaci- 
tance, a  steel  tuning  fork,  or  a  quartz  crystal  resonator.  The  requirements 
were  first  stated  for  the  case  of  the  pendulum  by  Sir  George  Airy  in  1827  and . 
it  has  always  been  the  aim  in  the  design  of  every  good  pendulum  driving 
means  to  satisfy  Airy's  condition. 


A^ 


L^-:::::r: 

^-^^ 

1- 
z 

LU  - 
I 

if) 

o 

-i 

a. 

Vt^fSKK-n  _ 

#, 

1      1     /      1    /      \    /     \    /      '  ^"^^ 

REAL  VELOCITY 

Fig.  5 — Amplitude-phase  diagram  for  resonant  element. 

This  condition  is  conveniently  illustrated  by  the  diagram  of  Fig.  5  which 
shows  the  two  most  familiar  representations  of  damped  sinusoidal  motion. 
In  order  to  provide  a  convenient  scale  in  the  drawing  an  impractically 
large  damping  is  represented,  corresponding  to  a  Q  of  20.  The  ^  of  a 
resonant  circuit  is  related  to  the  logarithmic  decrement,  8,  by  the  relation 
Qd  =  IT.  The  factor  8  is  the  logarithm,  to  base  e  =  2.718  •  •  •,  of  the  ratio 
of  the  amplitudes  at  any  two  successive  periods.  It  should  be  noted  that 
the  (3  of  a  good  electrically  resonant  circuit  is  in  the  order  of  200,  that  of  a 
good  pendulum  from  10,000  to  100,000  and  that  of  a  good  quartz  resonator 
from  100,000  to  5,000,000.  The  significance  of  these  higher  values  of  Q 
will  be  evident  from  the  following  discussion. 

In  Fig.  5  the  damped  sine  wave  shown  corresponds,  point  by  point,  to 
the  phase  diagram,  which  is  simply  a  logarithmic  spiral.  By  suitable  choice 
of  scale  the  spiral  can  be  interpreted  to  represent  either  the  amplitude  or 
the  velocity^in  which  case  the  real  amplitude  is  vertical  and  the  real 
velocity  horizontal.  In  this  representation  the  velocity  is  shown  maximum 
when  the  amplitude  is  zero,  which  is  a  very  close  approximation  to  fact 
for  all  practicable  values  of  Q.  The  discussion  will  center  on  the  velocity 
spiral. 


522  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Let  us  assume  that  the  pendulum  is  sustained  in  oscillation  by  a  succession 
of  short  impulses,  one  for  each  swing  applied  at  some  phase  angle  (pi.  If 
the  impulse  is  really  short,  the  velocity  will  be  increased  to  the  value  that 
the  pendulum  had  when  it  occupied  the  same  position  during  the  last  swing. 
This  change  of  condition  is  represented  by  the  short  horizontal  path  on  the 
velocity-phase  diagram  and,  as  indicated,  is  accompanied  by  an  advance  in 
phase  A<pi.  This  can  be  interpreted  as  meaning  that  the  period  of  a  pendu- 
lum sustained  in  oscillation  in  this  way  is  reduced  from  its  natural  period  in 

the  ratio  of  — ^.    It  is  obvious  from  the  diagram  that  A</)i  becomes 

ZTT 

smaller  and  that  this  ratio  approaches  unity  as  the  phase  of  the  applied 
impulse  approaches  that  of  the  maximum  velocity — that  is,  when  the 
pendulum  is  in  the  center  of  its  swing;  and  this  is  Airy's  condition.  It  is 
clear  also  that  if  the  impulse  is  applied  after  (instead  of  before)  the  instant 
of  maximum  velocity,  the  period  will  be  correspondingly  increased.  From 
the  geometry  of  the  figure,  it  can  be  seen  that,  in  the  neighborhood  of  the 
optimum  condition^  the  deviation  from  natural  period  is  very  closely  pro- 
portional to  the  amount  of  the  phase  departure. 

The  closeness  of  spacing  of  the  turns  of  the  spiral  depends  directly  on  the 
Q  of  the  resonant  element.  For  a  Q  of  200,  the  turns  will  be  packed  ten 
times  closer  than  shown,  and  the  corresponding  A^  will  be  only  one  tenth 
as  great,  other  conditions  being  comparable.  For  a  Q  of  a  million  or  more, 
A(p  becomes  very  small  indeed,  especially  when  cp  is  properly  chosen — and 
the  variation  in  A^,  which  is  a  measure  of  the  variation  in  rate  due  to  the 
driving  means,  may  be  made  vanishingly  small. 

The  importance  of  the  above  properties  to  timekeeping  depends  upon 
how  well  conditions  can  be  set  up  to  realize  them.  At  first  wholly  mechani- 
cal means  were  employed  and,  with  the  advent  of  the  dead-beat  and  detached 
escapements  and  by  careful  design  and  operation,  quite  remarkable  perform- 
ance was  obtained. 

A  new  approach  in  timekeeping  methods  was  introduced  by  Alexander 
Bain^  in  1840  when  he  first  used  electrical  means  for  sustaining  a  pendulum 
in  oscillation.  The  importance  of  Bain's  invention  of  the  electric  clock  is 
indicated  by  a  long  controversy  over  the  priority  of  the  invention  with 
Charles  Wheatstone,  who  was  working  along  similar  lines  at  the  same  time 
as  a  by-product  of  his  extensive  researches  on  the  electrical  telegraph. 
A  brief  story  of  this  controversy  entitled  ''The  First  Electric  Clock"  was 
written  for  the  one-hundredth  anniversary  of  Bain's  invention'^.  The  first 
electric  pendulum  clocks  could  not  compare  in  accuracy  with  the  best 
mechanically  driven  pendulums  of  the  period  but,  in  spite  of  a  great  deal 
of  initial  skepticism  on  the  part  of  those  brought  up  in  the  mechanical 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  523 

tradition,  electrical  maintenance  and  control  has  been  applied  in  the  most 
accurate  pendulums  in  the  world. 

The  free-pendulum  clock  makes  use  of  the  idea,  first  proposed  by  Rudd, 
of  allowing  a  master  pendulum  to  swing  free  of  all  sustaining  or  other 
mechanism  for  a  considerable  number  of  periods  and  of  imparting  to  it, 
after  each  group  of  free  swings,  a  single  impulse  large  enough  to  maintain 
the  next  equal  number.  The  advantage  is  that  no  friction  effects  of  driving 
mechanism  are  coupled  to  the  pendulum  except  during  that  minimum  time 
required  to  impart  energy  to  it.  Actually,  in  theory,  the  phase  error 
introduced  by  one  large  impulse  after  n  free  swings  is  exactly  the  same  as 
the  sum  of  the  phase  errors  for  n  small  impulses.  That  can  be  deduced 
from  the  phase  diagram  of  Fig.  5.  But  experience  has  shown  that  a  pen- 
dulum is  actually  more  stable  when  the  sustaining  mechanism  is  detached 
from  it  the  greater  part  of  the  time. 

The  Synchronome  free-pendulum  clock  includes  also  the  basic  idea  of 
the  gravity  remontoir  first  applied  by  Lord  Grimthorp  (then  Sir  Edmund 
Beckett  Denison)  in  the  design  of  the  mechanism  of  Big  Ben,  London, 
constructed  in  1854 — and  still  in  continuous  operation.  The  ingenious 
application  of  these  principles  and  the  electrical  means  devised  by  F.  Hope- 
Jones  and  W.  H.  Shortt  for  its  accomplishment  have  resulted  in  the  con- 
struction of  the  most  accurate  pendulum  clocks  in  the  world  by  the  Syn- 
chronome Clock  Company  of  London.  The  history  and  development  of 
the  free-pendulum  clock  is  elegantly  described  by  F.  Hope- Jones  in  his  book 
on  Electric  Clocks^. 

The  predominant  characteristics  of  a  pendulum  resonator,  as  used  in  a 
clock,  have  just  been  discussed' in  order  to  show  the  parallel  between  them 
and  the  properties  of  other  resonant  systems.  It  will  be  shown  how  some 
of  the  factors  that  have  been  troublesome  in  the  development  of  pendulums 
have  been  rather  easily  taken  account  of  in  other  types  of  control  devices 
and  in  particular  in  the  quartz  crystal  clock. 

The  Evolution  of  Electric  Oscillator  Clocks 

It  almost  never  happens  that  a  result  of  any  considerable  value  is  obtained 
at  a  single  stroke  or  comes  through  the  efforts  of  a  single  person.  More 
often  even  the  most  important  advances  come  as  the  climax  of  a  long  series 
of  ideas  which  have  accumulated  over  a  period  of  years  until  the  next  step 
becomes  almost  self-evident  and  is  accompHshed  either  through  the  necessity 
for  a  new  result  or  as  a  logical  next  step. 

This  was  preeminently  the  case  in  the  crystal  clock  development  and 
involved  the  putting  together  of  a  considerable  number  of  ideas  that  had 
been  accumulating  through  a  century  or  more  of  related  activity.     The 


524  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

chain  of  events  which  led  eventually  to  the  crystal  clock  followed  a  course 
quite  independent  of  pendulum  clock  development,  although  parallel  with 
it,  and  meeting  it  from  time  to  time  on  the  way.  From  the  start,  it  in- 
volved the  use  of  resonant  elements  whose  frequencies  do  not  depend  upon 
gravity  for  controlling  the  frequency  of  oscillations  in  a  positive  feedback 
amplifier.  From  a  rather  simple  beginning,  taking  advantage  of  a  series  of 
discoveries  and  inventions  through  about  a  century  of  progress,  there  has 
evolved  a  clock  whose  stability  is  comparable  with  that  of  astronomical 
time  itself,  as  heretofore  defined  in  terms  of  the  earth's  rotation,  and  having 
a  versatility  far  exceeding  all  other  existing  means  for  the  precision  measure- 
ment of  time. 

Electric  Oscillators 

The  first  recorded  experiments  that  relate  directly  to  this  development 
were  those  of  Jules  Lissajous^  who,  in  1857,  showed  that  a  tuning  fork  can 
be  sustained  in  vibration  indefinitely  by  electrical  means,  using  an  electro- 
magnet and  an  interrupter  supported  by  one  of  the  prong^  The  idea  of 
using  an  interrupter  to  sustain  vibration  was  not  new  with  Lissajous,  but 
had  been  invented  by  C.  G.  Page^  and  described  by  him  as  early  as  April 
1837,  to  obtain  a  regularly  interrupted  electric  current.  Credit  for  this 
important  invention  is  often  given  to  Golding  Bird^°  or  Neeff^^  who  evidently 
were  working  along  similar  lines  concurrently  although  quite  independently 
of  each  other.  Page,  Golding  Bird  and  Neeff  were  all  medical  doctors  and 
evidently  were  interested  in  their  devices  more  for  their  therapeutic  interest 
than  for  the  general  scientific  value,  since  ^'galvanic"  electricity  was  at- 
tributed at  that  time  with  marvelous  healing  powers. 

Lissajous  was  probably  the  first  to  make  use  of  the  idea  for  accurate 
measurements  of  rate,  being  a  prolific  experimenter  in  mechanics  end 
acoustics,  and  the  originator  of  the  famous  method  bearing  his  name  for 
the  study  of  periodic  motions.  Indeed,  the  electrically  operated  fork  was 
developed  especially  for  use  as  a  standard  to  be  used  in  studying  the  rates 
of  other  vibrators.  In  principle,  the  electrically  operated  fork  is  like  the 
pendulum  drive  of  Alexander  Bain,  except  that  the  rate  of  vibration  in  this 
case  is  not  a  function  of  gravity  but  for  the  most  part  is  controlled  by  the 
effective  mass  and  elastic  stiffness  of  the  vibrating  member. 

The  tuning  fork  itself  was  invented  in  1711  by  John  Shore,  a  trumpeter  in 
Handel's  orchestra'^,  and  was  developed  to  a  high  state  of  perfection  by 
the  great  instrument  maker  and  physicist  of  Paris,  Rudolph  Konig.  To 
establish  an  accurate  standard  of  pitch  for  calibrating  these  forks  Konig 
developed  what  he  termed  an  "absolute"  method  for  the  determination  of 
frequency.     This  consisted  of  a  tuning  fork  having  a  frequency  of  64  vjbra- 


EVOLUTION  Of  QUART/  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  525 

tions  per  second,  with  delicate  mechanical  means,  similar  to  a  clock  escape- 
ment, for  sustaining  the  fork  in  vibration  and  for  counting  the  number  of 
vibrations  over  any  desired  interval  of  time.  For  this  purpose,  the  escape- 
ment mechanism  was  geared  to  the  hands  of  a  clock,  so  that  when  the  fork 
had  its  nominal  frequency  the  clock  would  keep  correct  time.  Dr.  Konig 
credits  the  invention  of  the  fork-clock  to  N.  Niaudet''"'  in  these  words: 

"Cette  disposition  avail  ete  realisee  pour  la  premiere  fois  dans  I'horloge  a  diapason 
que  N.  Niaudet  fit  presenter  a  I'Academie  des  Sciences  le  10  decembre  1866,  et  que  a  figure 
aux  expositions  universelles  de  Paris  1867  et  de  Vienne  1873."* 

Thus,  as  early  as  1866,  the  essential  elements  had  been  developed  sepa- 
rately from  which  a  clock  of  the  electric  oscillator  type  could  have  been 
constructed.  But  it  was  not  until  more  than  half  a  century  later,  when 
there  was  more  apparent  need  for  such  a  clock,  that  it  was  actually  realized. 
It  was  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  studying  temperature  coefficients  and  like 
properties  of  tuning  forks  that  Konig  constructed  and  used  his  famous 
mechanical  fork-clock.  There  is  no  evidence  that  there  was  at  that  time 
any  idea  of  using  a  fork-clock  as  a  timekeeper. 

It  was  for  the  purpose  of  making  still  more  precise  studies  of  the  properties 
of  tuning  forks  that  H.  M.  Dadourian^^  in  1949  made  use  of  the  phonic 
wheel  motor  for  the  first  time  for  counting  the  number  of  cycles  executed  by 
a  fork  over  an  extended  period  of  time  to  measure  its  rate.  By  means  of  a 
chronograph  the  time  interval  corresponding  to  the  total  of  a  very  large 
number  of  periods  could  be  measured  precisely  in  terms  of  a  standard  clock, 
thus  providing  a  direct  '^absolute"  measure  of  fork  rate.  For  this  he  found 
already  invented  for  him  all  of  the  essential  component  parts,  including 
the  fork  with  electromagnetic  drive,  and  the  phonic  wheel  motor. 

The  phonic  wheel  motor,  which  in  some  modified  form  is  an  essential 
part  of  nearly  all  oscillator  clocks,  was  invented  by  two  investigators, 
apparently  quite  independently  and  for  entirely  different  purposes.  The 
first  published  reports  of  each  appeared  in  1878. 

The  first  of  these  is  an  American  patent  that  was  granted  on  May  7, 
1878  to  Poul  La  Cour^^,  a  Danish  telegraph  engineer.  The  application  was 
filed  in  Washington  on  April  9  of  the  same  year,  and  described  a  fork- 
controlled  impulse  motor  similar  to  those  still  used  in  many  modern  syn- 
chronous clocks.  The  other  publication  was  a  report  in  Nature  for  May  23 
of  the  March  30  Physical  Society  Meeting.  In  this,  Lord  Rayleigh  de- 
scribed a  motor  which  he  developed  to  measure  the  frequency  of  sound  by  a 
stroboscopic    method. ^^     Both    of    these   original   disclosures   indicated    a 

*  ''This  apparatus  was  realized  for  the  first  time  in  the  fork-clock  which  N.  Niaudet 
described  at  the  Academy  of  Sciences  on  December  10,  1866,  and  which  was  shown  at  the 
expositions  of  the  University  of  Paris  in  1867  and  the  University  of  Vienna  in  1873." 


526  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

considerable  amount  of  previous  study,  even  including  the  fluid-filled 
flywheel  to  reduce  hunting.  It  may  be  impossible  at  this  time  to  know  who 
actually  put  in  motion  the  first  phonic  wheel  motor. 

DifiSculties  inherent  to  contact-controlled  devices  prevented  the  develop- 
ment of  highly  accurate  fork  standards  of  this  type,  and  there  is  no  evidence 
so  far  that  any  thought  had  been  given  to  the  use  of  a  tuning  fork  as  a 
timekeeper. 

The  method  of  usuig  a  microphone  instead  of  a  contact  was  proposed  by 
A.  and  V.  Guillet  ^^,  in  1900  and  has  been  used  considerably  in  frequency 
standards  of  moderate  accuracy,  but  that  too  had  limitations  which  made 
it  impossible  to  utilize  fully  the  inherent  stability  of  a  good  tuning  fork. 

The  Use  of  Vacutmt  Tubes 

The  first  opportunity  for  really  precise  control  of  the  frequency  of  a 
mechanical  vibrating  system,  and  the  next  step  in  the  oscillator  clock 
evolution,  came  with  the  invention  of  the  thermionic  vacuum  tube  at  the 
turn  of  the  century.  The  development  of  the  vacuum  tube  has  been  a  more 
or  less  continuous  process^^  starting  with  the  studies  of  electrical  conduction 
in  the  neighborhood  of  hot  bodies  by  Elster  and  Geitel,  Edison,  and  Fleming, 
and  later  developed  into  the  first  practical  devices  by  Fleming^*  and 
DeForest^*^  in  England  and  America  respectively.  The  first  patent  for 
such  a  device,  a  two-element  tube,  was  issued  to  J.  A.  Fleming  in  1904.^^ 
The  first  patent  on  a  tube  containing  three  elements  and  suitable  for  use  as 
an  amplifier  was  issued  to  Lee  DeForest  in  1907.^^ 

The  vacuum  tube  as  an  amplifier  found  almost  immediate  and  widespread 
application  in  telephony  and,  next  to  the  basic  telephone  elements,  was  the 
most  important  single  factor  contributing  to  long  distance  communication. 
For  this  purpose  large  amounts  of  amplification  were  required.  Very 
often  in  the  operation  of  early  amplifiers,  enough  signal  from  the  output 
would  somehow  get  coupled  into  the  input  circuit  to  make  the  entire  circuit 
break  into  oscillation  on  its  own  account  at  some  frequency  for  which  the 
amplifier  and  feedback  circuit  were  particularly  efficient. 

Although  this  was  very  annoying  in  an  amplifier,  it  led  naturally  in  1912 
to  the  invention  of  the  vacuum  tube  oscillator,  consisting  essentially  of  an 
amplifier  with  coupling  between  the  output  and  the  input  and  some  definite 
means  for  regulating  the  frequency  of  oscillation.  The  first  to  seek  patent 
protection  in  vacuum  tube  oscillators  were  Siegmund  Strauss^*  in  Austria, 
Marconi  Company  in  England^'*,  A.  Meissner  in  Germany,  and  Irving 
Langmuir,  E.  H.  Armstrong  and  Lee  DeForest^^  in  America.  Many  specific 
forms  have  since  been  invented  and  widely  used,  some  of  the  more  familiar 
types  being  associated  with  the  names  of  Colpitts,  Hartley  and  Meissner. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  527 

With  the  vacuum  tube  oscillator  controlled  by  electric  circuit  elements, 
it  would  have  been  possible  immediately  to  operate  a  clock  by  means  of  a 
phonic  wheel  motor.  Even  if  this  had  been  done,  however,  the  accuracy 
would  not  have  compared  very  favorably  with  that  of  good  mechanical 
clocks  of  the  period.  This  is  because  the  rate-controlling  element  of  such 
oscillators  was  subject  to  large  changes  due  to  temperature  and  aging,  and 
because  means  were  not  yet  known  for  avoiding  the  effects  of  tube  and  other 
variables  on  the  resulting  frequency. 

The  next  important  step  in  our  evolution  was  the  use  of  the  vacuum 
tube  to  sustain  the  vibration  of  a  tuning  fork.  This  may  be  considered 
either  as  an  improvement  on  the  contact-driven  fork  by  the  substitution  of 
a  vacuum  tube  relay  device  instead  of  the  contact,  or  as  an  improvement  on 
the  vacuum  tube  oscillator  by  the  substitution  of  a  mechanical  resonator 
for  the  electrical  resonant  element.  This  achievement  was  first  announced 
by  Professor  W.  H.  Eccles^^  in  April  or  May,  1919,  and  was  followed  on 
June  20  by  a  note  by  Eccles  and  Jordan^^  in  the  London  Electrician.  Mean- 
while, on  June  16  of  the  same  year,  a  similar  announcement  appeared  in 
Comptes  Rendus  by  Henri  Abraham  and  Eugene  Block^^,  showing  that 
parallel  developments  were  in  progress  in  both  England  and  France.  How- 
ever, Eccles  and  Jordan  in  discussing  their  work  at  the  National  Physical 
Laboratory  stated:  "Several  instruments  of  this  kind  have  been  set  up  and 
used  during  the  past  18  months."  From  this,  we  may  imply  that  they  had 
vacuum  tube  driven  forks  in  operation  early  in  1918. 

One  of  the  chief  advantages  of  the  use  of  the  vacuum  tube  to  sustain 
oscillations  in  a  mechanical  system  is  that  the  variable  friction  of  the  contact 
mechanism  is  avoided.  Previously  this  had  been  one  of  the  main  causes  of 
instability.  With  the  new  method  it  became  possible  to  operate  in  a  wdde 
frequency  range,  continuously,  and  at  small  amplitude,  and  to  deliver 
alternating  currents  of  approximately  sine  wave  form  and  having  more 
constant  frequency  than  heretofore  had  been  possible.  The  judicious  use 
of  a  vacuum  tube  in  delivering  power  to  sustain  the  vibration  of  a  resonator 
is  analogous  to  the  ideal  of  the  so-called  free  pendulum  but  may  be  utilized 
more  effectively  in  freeing  the  resonator  from  disturbing  influences  associated 
with  the  driving  means. 

Another  important  advantage,  which,  however,  was  not  realized  im- 
mediately, is  the  ease  with  which  the  phase  of  the  driving  force  applied  to 
a  mechanical  vibrator  can  be  adjusted  for  greatest  frequency  stability. 
In  a  manner  analogous  to  the  pendulum,  in  which  it  was  shown  that  the 
rate  is  least  affected  when  the  driving  impulse  is  applied  at  the  instant  of 
maximum  velocity,  the  current  delivered  to  the  driving  electromagnet  and 
hence  the  force  applied  to  the  vibrating  element,  should  be  in  phase  with 


528  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

the  velocity  of  that  element.  In  the  vacuum  tube  oscillator,  it  is  a  relatively 
simple  matter  to  design  the  feedback  circuits  to  meet  this  condition  very 
accurately. 

In  1921  and  1922  Eckhardt,  Karcher  and  Keiser^^-^o  described  the 
development  of  a  precise  fork  and  vacuum  tube  driving  means,  pointing 
out  the  following  uses:  '^As  a  sound  source;  as  a  small  scale  time  standard; 
as  a  current  interrupter;  as  a  synchronizer."  The  chief  emphasis  seems  to 
have  been  on  the  second  item  because  in  the  same  year  Eckhardt  described 
a  high-speed  oscillograph  camera  using  the  same  fork  as  a  precise  'timing 
device.  The  study  and  improvement  of  the  tuning  fork  oscillator  were 
carried  on  continuously  and  soon  such  oscillators  were  used  in  several 
national  physical  laboratories  and  commercial  research  institutions  as  stand- 
ards of  frequency  and  time  interval. 

The  next  two  reports  of  progress  appeared  in  1923,  one  by  D.  W.  Dye 
of  the  National  Physical  Laboratory  in  Teddington,  and  the  other  by  J.  W. 
Horton,  N.  H.  Ricker  and  W.  A.  Harrison  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
New  York  City.  Both  of  these  papers  disclosed  work  done  over  a  period 
of  two  or  three  years  and  described  apparatus  that  had  been  in  operation 
for  a  considerable  period.  Di*.  Dye  employed  a  1000-cycle  steel  tuning 
fork  and  a  phonic  wheel  motor  operating  synchronously  from  it  with  a 
gear  reduction  and  cam  to  produce  periodic  electrical  signals  which  he 
compared  with  a  clock  by  means  of  a  chronograph^^  Horton,  Ricker,  and 
Marrison  used  a  100-cycle  steel  fork,  a  synchronous  motor  with  a  gear 
reduction  to  produce  electrical  impulses  at  one-second  intervals,  and  a 
clock  mechanism  operating  directly  from  these  signals^^.  This  appears  to 
be  the  first  time  that  a  vacuum  tube-controlled  oscillator  was  ever  used  to 
operate  a  complete  clock  mechanism.  Shortly  thereafter,  a  clock  was  built 
in  which  the  100-cycle  motor  was  geared  directly  to  the  clock  mechanism 
instead  of  operating  through  a  stepping  device.  A  contacting  device  was 
retained,  however,  for  the  purpose  of  making  precise  time  measurements. 

For  precise  measurements  of  rate  over  long  time  intervals,  means  were 
provided  to  compare  the  seconds  pulses  controlled  by  the  synchronous 
motor  directly  with  time  signals  received  by  radio  from  the  Naval  Observa- 
tory. To  facilitate  these  comparisons,  a  two-pen  siphon  recorder  was  built 
by  means  of  which  the  time  marks  were  laid  down  side  by  side  on  a  moving 
strip  of  pap)er  in  such  a  way  that  accurate  subdivisions  of  a  second  could  be 
made  on  any  part  of  the  record. 

This  same  two-pen  recorder  and  lOO-cycle  fork  time  standard  was  used 
during  the  total  solar  eclipse  of  January  24,  1925  to  time  the  progress  of 
the  moon's  shadow  as  observed  at  a  number  of  stations  in  the  path  which 
were  all  connected  by  a  round-robin  telegraph  circuit,  through  the  Hell 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  529 

Telephone  Laboratories'  headquarters  in  New  York  City  '^•^^.  A  photo- 
graph of  the  original  records  is  reproduced  in  Fig.  6.  This  is  beUeved  to  be 
the  first  time  that  a  vacuum  tube  oscillator  type  of  time  standard  was  ever 
used  in  the  service  of  astronomy. 

During  the  following  ten  years  a  great  number  of  improvements  were 
made  in  tuning  fork  oscillators  and  they  became  widely  used  as  precise 
frequency  standards.  The  Bell  Laboratories'  100-cycle  fork  standard  was 
mounted  in  a  container  which  could  be  sealed  at  constant  pressure  or  vac- 
uum. It  was  carefully  temperature  controlled  and  provision  was  made  to 
keep  the  amplitude  within  prescribed  limits.  In  describing  this  improved 
standard^,  comprising  a  synchronous  motor  geared  directly  to  a  clock 
mechanism,  the  authors  Horton  and  Marrison  made  the  following  statement: 

"During  tests  on  this  frequency  standard,  it  was  found  that  it  constituted  a  far  more 
reliable  timekeeper  than  the  electrically  maintained  pendulum  clock  which  was  used  to 
obtain  the  data  already  published.  The  pendulum  clock  was,  therefore,  dispensed  with 
and  all  measurements  of  the  rate  of  the  fork  are  now  made  by  direct  comparison  with  the 
mean  solar  day  as  defined  by  the  radio  time  signals  sent  out  by  the  U.  S.  Naval 
Observatory." 

In  all  fairness  to  the  pendulum  clock  in  question,  it  should  be  stated  that 
the  laboratory  was  situated  on  the  seventh  floor  of  a  building  adjoining  a 
busy  street  and  so  was  continually  subject  to  vibration  from  traffic,  wind, 
and  other  changing  conditions.  Disturbances  of  this  sort  have  little  or  no 
effect  on  standards  of  the  electric  oscillator  type  but  seriously  impair  the 
performance  of  most  high  precision  pendulum  clocks.  The  relative  im- 
munity of  the  oscillator  standard  to  change  of  position  and  shock  has  an 
important  bearing  on  its  value  in  many  applications. 

Probably  the  most  precise  tuning  fork  controlled  time  and  frequency 
standards  ever  constructed  were  those  developed  in  the  National  Physical 
Laboratory  at  Teddington,  as  a  continuation  of  the  work  begun  there  by 
Professor  Eccles  and  carried  forward  by  Dr.  Dye  and  his  staff.  A  report 
by  D.  W.  Dye  and  L.  Essen  in  the  Royal  Society  Proceedings  in  1934^^ 
described  a  number  of  refinements  in  the  fork  and  method  of  use  some  of 
which  had  been  suggested  by  Dr.  Dye  as  a  result  of  his  studies  ten  years 
earlier.  Among  these  was  the  use  of  elinvar  in  the  construction  of  the  forks 
in  order  to  reduce  the  effect  of  variable  temperature  on  the  frequency. 
Elinvar  is  a  nickel  steel  containing  about  twelve  per  cent  of  chromium, 
which  on  proper  treatment  has  a  small  or  zero  temperature  coefficient  of 
elasticity.  It  was  invented  by  Charles  Edouard  Guillaume^^-^  and  was 
further  studied  by  P.  Chevenard'^^-  ^°.  The  excellence  of  the  N.P.L.  fork 
standard  can  be  appreciated  readily  from  the  conclusion  of  the  1934  report 
which  states  in  part: 


530 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


1 

■ 

■  -aj 

t 

pt 

h 

■K 

n 

1 

fH 

•;^- 

i 

^^ 

> 

'** 

4 

? 

^^^^H 

"( 

; 

■ 

1 

i 

% 

■^ 

^^H 

« 

^^^B 

^ 

] 

^B 

^ 

Bnl 

k 

^ 

W 

H 

; 

_ 

H  ^ 

■ 

■1  ^ 

*. 

»^ 

% 

^ 

Hi    -^ 

> 

■o 

.-^ 

K    % 

1    S 

Ja 

-^ 

B     ^ 

-^■*                  V 

"f^    ^ 

' 

, 

-■^* 

-t 

^l 

i^ 

.s 

- 

-t^     - 

Ji 

#■' 

<» 

K^ 

^ 

^ 

k 

Jh 

> 

6^ 

^1 

■1    . 

^ 

* 

■1    ^' 

5^ 

(A 

H 

1 

^ 

1 

•  1 

1 

1 

^'  •' 

1 

5; 

^ 

? 

> 

B| 

1  ,-,_, 

i 

1 

;^- 

(^  . 

EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  531 

"The  frequency  of  the  fork  in  comparison  with  the  N.P.L.  Shortt  clock  can  be  measured 
at  any  time  with  an  accuracy  of  5  parts  in  10*.  It  is  necessary  to  apply  a  correction  for 
the  rate  of  the  Shortt  clock,  and  the  ultimate  accuracy  with  which  the  absolute  value  of 
frequency  is  known  depends  on  the  accuracy  of  the  time  signals  which  are  used  to  determine 
the  rate  of  the  clock.  The  final  frequency  can,  however,  usually  be  ascertained  with  an 
accuracy  of  ±1.5  parts  in  10^.  In  its  present  condition  the  tuning  fork  maintains  a 
frequency  stability  of  the  order  of  3  parts  in  10^  over  periods  of  a  week  or  more." 

A  considerable  amount  of  efTort  has  been  devoted  to  the  improvement  of 
tuning  forks,  directed  mostly  toward  stabilizing  the  fork  itself.  Patents 
issued  to  H.  H.  Hagland^^,  August  Karolus-*-  and  Bert  Eisenhour*-*^  have  been 
concerned  with  the  reduction  of  temperature  coefficient  by  various  methods 
of  compensation  in  the  alloy  or  in  the  mechanical  structure  of  the  fork.  In 
recent  years,  alloys  have  been  produced  from  which  forks  with  a  zero  coeffi- 
cient of  frequency  can  be  machined.  These  alloys  have  neither  a  zero  ex- 
pansion coefficient  nor  a  zero  elastic  coefficient,  but  the  two  coefficients  are 
so  balanced  that  their  effects  cancel  as  they  concern  the  frequency  of  a 
tuning  fork. 

One  of  the  largest  residual  sources  of  error  in  a  good  fork  is  that  caused  by 
the  coupUng  through  the  mounting.  A  fork  which  is  efficient  as  a  producer 
of  sound  by  coupling  through  the  base  would  be  quite  useless  as  a  precise 
standard  of  rate  due  to  the  losses  introduced  in  this  manner.  It  has  been 
shown  by  S.  E.  Michaels^^  that  the  tines  of  a  well-balanced  fork  can  be  so 
shaped  that  practically  no  energy  at  fundamental  frequency  is  transmitted 
through  the  base. 

By  making  use  of  all  that  is  known  about  materials,  shapes  and  mountings 
for  tuning  forks,  and  all  that  is  known  about  stabilized  vacuum  tube  cir- 
cuits for  driving  them,  it  is  quite  possible  that  considerable  further  improve- 
ment could  now  be  obtained  in  such  a  standard.  But  another  line  of 
development  has  shown  greater  promise  in  this  field  and  the  ultimate 
accuracy  of  tuning  fork  oscillators  has  never  been  pursued. 

The  Quartz  Resonator 

During  the  same  ten  years  that  the  greatest  advances  were  being  made 
in  the  tuning  fork  art,  the  striking  properties  of  the  quartz  crystal  resonator 
were  reviewed  and  first  applied  in  the  construction  of  frequency  and  time 
standards.  Its  use  in  primary  standards  for  the  most  exacting  measure- 
ments of  frequency  and  time  is  now  almost  universal  in  national  and  indus- 
trial laboratories  throughout  the  world. 

Quartz  crystal  is  the  most  abundant  crystalline  form  of  silicon  dioxide, 
occurring,  in  some  parts  of  the  world,  in  large  single  crystals  from  which 
mechanical  resonators  of  useful  dimensions  can  readily  be  formed.  The 
physical  properties  that  make  it  eminently  suitable  for  use  in  a  standard  of 
rate  or  time  are  its  great  mechanical  and  chemical  stability.     Having  a 


532  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

hardness  nearly  equal  to  that  of  ruby  and  sapphire,  and  a  rigidity  of  structure 
such  that  it  cannot  be  deformed  beyond  its  elastic  limit  without  fracture, 
it  might  be  expected  to  remain  in  a  given  shape  indefinitely  under  ordinary 
conditions  of  use.  Because  of  its  great  chemical  stability,  its  composition 
is  not  easily  modified  by  any  ordinary  environment. 

In  addition  to  its  inherent  physical  and  chemical  stability,  the  elastic 
hysteresis  in  quartz  is  extremely  small.  For  this  reason,  it  requires  only  a 
very  small  amount  of  energy  to  sustain  oscillation  and  the  period  is  only 
very  slightly  affected  by  variable  external  conditions  in  the  means  for 
driving  it. 

A  striking  illustration  of  the  importance  of  this  property  is  indicated  by 
the  number  of  periods  that  a  resonant  element  will  execute  freely,  that  is, 
without  any  sustaining  forces  whatever,  during  the  time  required  for  the 
ampUtude  to  decrease  to  one-half  of  some  prescribed  value.  For  a  good 
electrical  circuit  consisting  of  an  air  core  inductance  and  an  air  condenser, 
this  number  is  about  100;  for  a  good  tuning  fork  in  vacuum,  it  is  about  20C0. 
For  a  good  cavity  resonator  under  standard  conditions  of  temperature  and 
pressure,  the  number  may  be  as  high  as  10,000.  The  best  gravity  pendu- 
lums will  swing  freely  from  2,000  to  20,000  times  before  they  reach  half 
amplitude.  The  effect  is  most  striking  of  all  in  quartz  crystal,  in  which  the 
internal  losses  are  extremely  low.  Professor  Van  Dyke  has  measured  the 
rate  of  decay  of  oscillations  under  a  wide  range  of  conditions'^^  and  has  found 
that,  as  ordinarily  mounted,  nearly  all  of  the  losses  are  in  the  mounting  or 
in  the  surrounding  atmosphere,  if  any,  or  in  surface  effects.  Extremely  small 
amounts  of  surface  contamination  will  more  than  double  the  decrement. 
Recently^®  Maynard  Waltz  and  K.  S.  Van  Dyke  have  measured  the  decre- 
ment of  one  out  of  the  first  set  of  four  zero  coefficient  ring  crystals  ever  made''^ 
and  found  that,  vibrating  freely  in  vacuum  and  favorably  mounted,  it  would 
execute  more  than  a  million  vibrations  before  falling  to  half  amplitude. 

The  advantage  of  this  property  is  immediately  obvious  because  of  the 
relatively  small  amount  of  energy  that  must  be  supplied  at  each  oscillation 
to  keep  the  resonator  in  motion.  As  already  discussed  in  relation  to  the 
pendulum,  the  amount  that  the  rate  of  oscillation  may  be  disturbed  in  a 
given  structure  is  proportional  to  this  energy  and,  to  first  order,  on  the 
departure  from  the  ideal  phase  condition  of  the  applied  driving  force. 

The  properties  just  enumerated  are  sufficient  to  assure  the  superiority  of 
quartz  crystal  for  the  control  element  in  a  rate  standard;  no  other  vibrating 
system  known  at  the  present  time  is  so  sharply  resonant  or  so  stable.  How- 
ever, one  more  property,  its  piezoelectric  activity,  has  added  greatly  to  the 
convenience  of  its  use  in  vacuum  tube  devices. 

The  piezoelectric  effect  was  discovered  by  the  Curie  brothers  in  1880,'^ 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  533 

and  in  the  years  following  was  studied  extensively  by  them'^*  •  ^^.  They 
found  that  when  quartz  and  certain  other  crystals  are  stressed,  an  electric 
potential  is  induced  in  nearby  conductors  and,  conversely,  that  when  such 
crystals  are  placed  in  an  electric  field,  they  are  deformed  a  small  amount 
proportional  to  the  strength  and  polarity  of  that  field.  The  first  of  these 
effects  is  known  as  the  direct  piezoelectric  effect  and  the  latter  as  the  inverse 
effect.  The  amount  of  such  deformation  in  quartz  is  extremely  minute,  a 
static  potential  gradient  of  1  esu  (300  volts)  per  centimeter  causing  a 
maximum  extension  or  contraction,  depending  on  the  polarity,  of  only 
6.8  X  10~^  cm  per  cm.  If  a  crystal  resonator  is  subjected  to  an  alternating 
electric  field  having  the  frequency  for  which  the  crystal  is  resonant,  the 
amplitude  of  motion  will,  of  course,  be  multipHed  many  times.  In  prac- 
tice, however,  the  actual  amplitudes  of  motion  are  kept  so  small,  by  limiting 
the  applied  electric  field,  that  even  with  the  largest  crystals  used  they  can 

0.175////f  25"^  0.0288////f  420^ 


17  H 


-^W^ — VW—i 

1026  H 


GT  CRYSTAL    UNIT  SQUARE    ROD,  8.3  X  0.5  X  0.5  CM 

FREQUENCY   100  KG  FREQUENCY  29.2  KG 

Fig.  7 — Equivalent  electrical  circuits  for  typical  quartz  crystal  resonators. 

be  observed  only  under  a  high  powered  microscope.  This,  in  conjunction 
with  means  for  precise  amplitude  control,  is  one  of  the  reasons  for  the 
remarkable  frequency  stability  of  quartz  crystal  oscillators. 

In  practice,  a  quartz  resonator  is  mounted  between  conducting  electrodes 
which  now  most  often  consist  of  thin  metallic  coatings  deposited  on  the 
surface  of  the  crystal  by  evaporation,  chemical  deposition  or  other  suitable 
means.  Electrical  connection  is  made  to  these  coatings  through  leads 
which  also  support  the  crystal  mechanically.  The  resonators  with  which 
we  are  chiefly  concerned  in  this  discussion  have  only  two  electrodes. 

If  such  a  two-terminal  resonator  is  connected  into  any  circuit,  it  will 
behave  there  as  though  it  consisted  of  wholly  electrical  circuit  elements, 
usually  of  such  low  loss  as  can  not  be  realized  by  other  means.  The  equiv- 
alent electric  circuit  for  a  quartz  crystal  resonator  was  first  described^^  by 
K.  S.  Van  Dyke  in  1925  and,  for  some  significant  cases,  is  illustrated  in 
Fig.  7.  The  part  of  such  an  equivalent  circuit  which  in  many  cases  cannot 
be  duplicated  by  any  ordinary  means  is  the  inductance  element  containing 
so  Httle  resistance.  It  is  as  though  an  electric  resonator  could  be  made  and 
utilized  constructed  of  some  supra-conducting  material. 


534  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Among  the  first  serious  efforts  to  utilize  the  piezoelectric  effect  in  electrical 
circuits  were  those  of  Alexander  McLean  Nicolson  who  used  rochelle  salt 
crystal  in  the  construction  of  devices  for  the  conversion  of  electrical  energy 
into  sound  and  vice  versa.  He  constructed  loudspeakers  and  microphones 
during  several  years  of  study  prior  to  the  publication  of  his  work^^  in 
1919 — ideas  now  being  used  extensively  in  phonograph  pickups,  micro- 
phones and  sound  producers.  Nicolson  also  was  the  first  to  use  a  piezo- 
active  crystal  to  control  the  frequency  of  an  oscillator.  His  patent^, 
applied  for  in  1918,  shows  a  circuit  which  he  operated  successfully  in  1917. 
The  first  actual  use  of  resonators  of  quartz  is  attributed  to  P.  Langevin^^-  ^^, 
who  drove  large  crystals  in  resonance  in  order  to  generate  high-frequency 
sound  waves  in  water  for  submarine  signaling  and  depth  sounding. 

The  Quartz  Crystal  Controlled  Oscillator 

The  first  comprehensive  study  of  the  use  of  quartz  crystal  resonators 
to  control  the  frequency  of  vacuum  tube  oscillators  was  made  by  Walter  G. 
Cady  in  1921  and  published  by  him  in  April,  1922^^.  This  was  the  step 
which  initiated  a  most  extensive  and  intensive  research  of  the  properties  of 
quartz  crystal  and  into  methods  for  its  use  in  numerous  fields  requiring  a 
stable  frequency  characteristic. 

The  extent  and  importance  of  this  research  are  well  indicated  by  the 
number  of  investigators  and  published  contributions  to  the  art.  Among 
these,  a  paper  by  A.  Scheibe^^  in  1926  lists  28  articles  on  the  subject,  along 
with  a  description  of  his  own  extensive  studies.  Two  years  later  Cady 
published  a  bibliography^^  on  the  subject,  including  229  separate  references 
to  papers  and  books  and  84  patents  in  various  countries.  R.  Bechmann  in 
1936  published  a  review  of  the  quartz  oscillator^^  including  26  references  to 
other  original  contributions  in  that  field  alone.  More  recently  there  comes 
at  the  end  of  Cady's  1946  book^*^  on  'Tiezoelectricity",  a  bibliography  of 
57  books  and  602  separate  published  articles  on  this  subject.  By  any 
measure  this  represents  a  great  amount  of  detailed  effort  for  a  single  subject 
in  so  short  a  time — ^just  about  a  quarter  of  a  century.  Of  this  great  amount 
of  material,  it  is  feasible  to  review  only  a  small  number  of  the  outstanding 
ideas  relative  to  the  evolution  of  the  quartz  crystal  clock. 

The  first  published  quartz-controlled  oscillator  circuit  is  reproduced  in 
Fig.  8A  from  Cady's  1922  article.  In  this  oscillator  the  ''direct"  and 
''inverse"  piezoelectric  effects  were  employed  separately,  making  use  of 
two  separate  pairs  of  electrodes;  The  output  of  a  three-stage  amplifier 
was  used  to  drive  a  rod-shaped  crystal  at  its  natural  frequency  through 
one  pair  of  electrodes  making  use  of  the  "inverse"  effect,  while  the  input  to 
the  amplifier  was  provided  through  the  "direct"  effect  from  the  other  pair. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


535 


The  feedback  to  sustain  oscillations  in  the  electrical  circuit  could  be  obtained 
only  through  the  vibration  of  the  quartz  rod  and  hence  was  precisely  con- 
trolled by  it.  Cady's  results  were  received  with  widespread  interest  and 
were  duplicated  and  continued  in  many  laboratories,  which  soon  resulted 
in  many  new  discoveries  and  inventions. 


(a)  EARLIEST    QUARTZ    OSCILLATOR,  ^ 

WALTER  G.  CADY,  1921 


(b)  PIERCE   AND  PIERCE -MILLER  OSCILLATORS 


(C)   BRIDGE    STABILIZED   OSCILLATOR,  L.A.MEACHAM 

Fig.  8 — Typical  quartz  oscillator  circuits. 


Important  contributions  were  made  by  G.  W.  Pierce,  who,  showed  in  the 
following  year  that  plates  of  quartz  cut  in  a  certain  way  could  be  made  to 
vibrate  so  as  to  control  frequencies  proportional  to  their  thickness®^  He 
also  proposed  somewhat  simplified  circuits  for  their  use  which  soon  found 
very  general  appHcation  in  the  construction  of  wavemeter  standards  and 
later  for  oscillators  used  to  control  the  frequency  of  broadcasting  stations 
and  for  many  other  purposes.  In  1924,  the  General  Radio  Company  of 
Cambridge,  Massachusetts,  produced  a  commercial  instrument  based  on 
these  studies. 


536  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  significance  of  the  unusually  stable  properties  of  quartz  crystal — 
which  at  times  were  viewed  with  a  sort  of  awe  and  a  tendency  at  first  to 
expect  too  much^^* — y^^s  soon  recognized  in  relation  to  precise  standards 
of  frequency  and  time,  and  many  laboratories  made  experiments  directed 
toward  these  applications. 

For  some  years  these  efforts  usually  took  one  of  two  forms:  either  that  of 
a  quartz-controlled  oscillator  used  as  a  comparison  standard  by  various 
means^^,  or  that  of  using  the  quartz  resonator  itself  as  a  portable  standard, 
the  high-frequency  counterpart  of  an  isolated  tuning  fork.  Probably  the 
most  convenient  standards  of  the  latter  sort  were  the  luminous  resonators 
first  described  in  1925  by  Giebe  and  Scheibe^^.  The  following  year  they 
proposed  the  use  of  such  luminous  resonators  as  frequency  standards^^  and, 
shortly  following,  portable  frequency  indicators  of  this  sort  were  made 
available  for  general  use.  The  use  of  such  a  luminous  resonator  for  the 
international  comparison  of  frequency  standards  was  reported  by  S.  Jimbo 
in  1930.^^  The  first  international  comparison  of  frequency  standards 
making  use  of  piezo  resonators  as  isolated  standards  was  carried  out  by 
Walter  G.  Cady  in  1923,  who  by  means  of  a  set  of  early  type  resonators  com- 
pared the  existing  standards  at  Rome,  Livorno,  Paris,  Teddington,  Farn- 
borough,  Washington,  and  Cruft  Laboratory  at  Harvard  University^^. 
In  the  following  year  the  U.  S.  Bureau  of  Standards  carried  out  a  similar 
international  frequency  comparison,  but  of  greater  accuracy,  employing 
portable  quartz  crystal  oscillators.  This  comparison  and  other  important 
related  studies  were  described  by  J.  H.  Bellinger  in  1928 — ''The  Status  of 
Frequency  Standardization"^^. 

It  was  soon  recognized  that  quartz  oscillators  could  be  built  with  a 
stability  far  greater  than  that  of  any  other  known  type  and  that  they  possess 
qualities  very  desirable  for  a  combined  time  and  frequency  standard. 
However,  all  early  quartz  oscillators  had  frequencies  far  too  high  to  operate 
any  synchronous  motor  and  it  was  not  immediately  obvious  how  a  clock 
could  be  operated  thereby. 

The  Frequency  Divider  ,     • 

The  illustration  in  Fig.  9  from  the  author's  notebook  for  November,  1924 
is  believed  to  be  among  the  earliest  means  proposed  to  accomplish  this. 
In  brief,  the  proposal  was  to  control  the  speed  of  a  motor  driving  a  high- 
frequency  generator  so  that  a  harmonic  of  the  generator  output,  say  the 

*  In  1929,  M.  G.  Siadbei  wrote  "Nous  pensons  que  le  quartz  pi6co6Iectrique  peut 
trouver  un  nouvel  emploi  dans  la  chronometrie,  6tant  donn6e  la  conservation  rigoureuse- 
ment  constant  de  ses  oscillations." 

"La  seul  cause  de  variation  de  la  p^riode  d'oscillation  r^sulte  en  effect  du  changement  de 
la  temperature. . . .' 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


537 


tenth,  would  have  a  frequency  of  the  same  order  as  that  of  the  crystal  but 
differing  from  it  by  a  relatively  low  frequency,  /i.  This  low  frequency, 
derived  from  the  modulator  was  to  be  used  to  drive  the  synchronous  motor. 


DATE 


//^^^tf^aw^tS-tJ- 


i-<i-<J-^     /6i 


/i'LV. 


55 


-7X£. 


•<2^^-*^~'^<^''-^^^'^-^^-'^  »^       ,-Tl*- 


Ki^^.'^U^ 


T'Cnu/-^ 


■t,^  IOI77 


m 


W 

\\ 

¥\ 

-T' 

% 

^^ 

-^' 
.;^ 


yf: 


H-p. 


■o~isiy 


^         ;-^^,?^f^-^<^'-^^^£^^'-y 


/l.S^i^tn^fnA~c 


A 


f'S' 


y    / 


..,,Z,    ,. 


^^  ^-et'f     C-^.^re^n.'.^^/    /y-.^^-'irV   ^r.'j    .,^^^. -Vra-z-^^     .,;/a'7     M^'-n^'C^ 


-/'■ 


->iy     ..^i-t^-i-i^^t-^^  ^i-^'-j^-'^fy 


Fig.  9 — Early  suggestion  of  means  to  control  a  rotating  device  such  as  a  clock  from  a 
high  frequency. 


The  shaft  speed  of  the  motor-generator  would,  therefore,  be  integrally 
related  to  the  crystal  frequency  and  hence  any  mechanism  geared  to  the 
shaft,  such  as  a  clock,  would  indicate  time  as  dictated  by  the  crystal.  This 
method  could  have  been  carried  through  readily  by  a  combination  of  means 
already  developed  for  other  purposes,  and  the  construction  of  an  apparatus 
based  on  this  suggestion  was  soon  begun.     However,  a  simpler  method^^, 


538 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


not  involving  a  rotating  machine  in  the  control  system,  was  suggested  and 
the  first  quartz  crystal  clock  was  constructed  using  the  simpler  means. 
This  apparatus  was  described  by  Horton  and  Marrison^*^  before  the  Interna- 
tional Union  of  Scientific  Radio  Telegraphy  in  October,  1927.     The  reso- 


Fig.  10 — 50,000-C3cle  quartz  resonator,  in  original  mounting,  used  in  first  quartz 
clock— 1927. 


-JS^" 


HIGH-FREQ.       a; 
INPUT 


CONTROLLED 

LOW-FREQ. 

OUTPUT 


Fig.  11 — Submultiple  controlled  frequency  generator  used  in  first  quartz  clock. 


nator  in  its  mounting  that  was  used  in  this  first  model  is  shown  in  Fig.  10. 
It  consisted  of  a  rectangular  block  of  crystal,  cut  in  the  manner  usually 
called  X-cut,  and  of  such  size  as  to  oscillate  at  a  frequency  of  50,0(X)  cycles 
I>er  second  in  the  direction  of  its  length.  The  temperature  coefiicient  of 
this  resonator  was  approximately  4  parts  in  a  million  per  degree  C  at  the 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  539 

temperature  of  operation,  which  was  controlled  at  a  value  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  40  degrees  C. 

The  method  for  frequency  subdivision  used  in  this  tirst  quartz  crystal 
clock  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  11.  The  inductance  element  of  an  electric  circuit 
oscillator,  designed  to  operate  at  the  desired  low  frequency,  has  a  core  of 
variable  permeability  so  that  the  frequency  can  be  adjusted  over  a  narrow 
range  through  the  control  of  direct  current  in  an  auxiliary  winding.  A 
harmonic  of  this  low  frequency,  generated  in  the  tube  following  the  oscil- 
lator, is  compared  with  the  incoming  high  frequency  in  the  vacuum  tube 
modulator.  The  harmonic  chosen  has  nominally  the  same  frequency  as 
that  of  the  control,  or  crystal  oscillator,  so  that  one  output  of  the  modulator 
is  a  direct  current  whose  magnitude  and  sign  vary  with  the  phase  relation 
between  the  inputs  to  the  modulator.  The  use  of  this  method  to  regulate 
the  low-frequency  oscillator  insures  that  the  low  frequency  is  some  exact 
simple  fraction  of  the  high  frequency.  If,  therefore,  a  synchronous  motor 
is  operated  from  the  low  frequency  thus  produced,  its  rate  represents  ac- 
curately that  of  the  high-frequency  source  as  though  it  had  been  possible  to 
use  that  source  directly. 

Several  other  electrical  circuits  were  proposed  around  1927  for  the  sub- 
division of  high  frequencies.  The  method  in  most  general  use  at  present  is 
an  adaptation  of  the  "multivibrator"  first  used  by  Henri  Abraham  and 
Eugene  Block  in  1919  for  the  measurement  of  high  frequencies^^  They 
used  their  circuit  to  produce  a  wave  rich  in  harmonics  and  having  a  funda- 
mental that  could  be  compared  directly  with  that  of  a  tuning  fork  standard. 
By  various  means  now  well  known  the  high  frequency  could  be  compared 
with  one  of  the  harmonics  of  this  special  oscillator. 

This  procedure  was  reversed  by  Hull  and  Clapp'^,  who  discovered  that 
the  fundamental  frequency  could  be  controlled  by  coupling  the  high-fre- 
quency source  directly  into  the  circuit  of  the  multivibrator.  This,  in  fact, 
is  a  general  property  of  any  oscillator  in  which  the  operating  cycle  involves 
a  non-linear  current-voltage  characteristic,  being  most  pronounced  in  those 
of  the  relaxation  type.  Van  der  Pol  and  \'an  der  Mark  in  1927  reported  on 
some  experiments  on  ''frequency  demultiplication"  using  gas  tube  relaxation 
oscillators^^.  The  multivibrator  is,  in  effect,  a  relatively  stable  relaxation 
oscillator^-^,  and  with  slight  modification  has  been  used  extensively  as  the 
frequency-reducing  element  in  quartz-controlled  time  and  frequency  stand- 
ards throughout  the  w^orld. 

One  serious  difficulty  with  the  multivibrator  type  of  submultiple  generator 
has  been  that,  if  the  input  fails  or  falls  below  a  critical  level,  it  will  continue 
to  deliver  an  output  which,  of  course,  will  not  then  have  the  expected  fre- 
quency.    Certain  variables  in  the  circuit,  such  as  tube  aging,  may  cause  a 


540 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


similar  result.  With  this  in  view,  a  general  method  for  frequency  conversion 
has  been  developed  by  R.  L.  Miller^^,  in  which  the  existence  of  an  output 
depends  directly  on  the  presence  of  the  control  input.  The  basic  idea  in- 
volved in  this,  now  known  as  regenerative  modulation,  was  anticipated  by 
J.  W.  Horton  in  1919^^  but  had  not  been  developed  prior  to  Miller's  in- 
vestigations. The  circuit  of  a  regenerative  modulator  in  its  simplest  form 
as  a  frequency  divider  of  ratio  "two"  is  shown  in  Fig.  12. 

Soon  after  the  announcement  in  1927  of  the  first  quartz  crystal  controlled 
clock,^^  the  idea  was  studied  and  applied  in  many  places  notably  in  America 
and  Germany,  and  at  the  present  time  it  forms  the  basis  for  precise  measure- 
ments of  time  and  frequency  in  many  government  physical  laboratories 
as  well  as  in  many  astronomical  observatories  and  industrial  and  university 
laboratories  throughout  the  world. 


INPUT,  2f 


OUTPUT, f 


Fig.  12 — Frequency  divider  for  ratio  TWO  employing  regenerative  modulation. 


Although  the  first  results  were  quite  satisfying,  it  was  the  immediate 
interest  of  all  concerned  to  find  out  what  improvements  could  be  made, 
and  these  were  not  long  in  coming.  As  in  the  case  of  the  pendulum  already 
discussed,  or  with  any  other  oscillator,  the  constancy  of  rate  obtainable 
depends  on  two  kinds  of  properties:  those  which  concern  the  inherent 
stability  of  the  governing  device  itself,  and  those  concerned  with  the  means 
for  sustaining  it  in  oscillation.  Some  of  the  factors  in  the  two  groups  are 
interrelated  and  must  be  considered  together. 

The  improvements  in  quartz  oscillator  stability  therefore  have  been 
concerned  with  two  main  endeavors,  namely  that  of  cutting  and  mounting 
the  resonator  so  as  to  realize  effectively  the  unusually  stable  properties  of 
quartz  crystal  itself,  and  that  of  coupling  it  to  the  electrical  circuit  in  such 
a  way  as  to  avoid  the  effects  of  such  variables  as  power  voltage  variation, 
aging  of  vacuum  tubes,  and  the  like,  on  the  controlled  frequency.  The 
latter  effects  were  not  obvious  at  first  because  the  temperature  coefficient 
and  the  effects  of  friction  and  change  of  position  in  the  mounting  caused 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  541 

variations  of  considerably  larger  magnitude.     It  was  natural,   then,   to 
see  what  could  be  done  about  these  effects. 

Zero  Temperature  Coefficient  of  Frequency 

With  the  knowledge  that  X-cut  resonators  had  negative  coefficients, 
frequently  as  large  as  thirty  parts  in  a  million  per  degree  C,  and  that  Y-cut 
resonators  in  general  had  positive  coefficients,  often  in  excess  of  a  hundred 
parts  in  a  million  per  degree,  the  author  undertook  to  make  resonators  of 
such  shape  that  the  oscillations  would  occur  in  both  modes  simultaneously, 
and  so  combine  the  coefficients,  in  the  hope  that  the  resultant  could  be 
made  zero.^^ 

The  first  experiments,  made  on  two  series  of  resonators  both  yielded 
encouraging  results.  The  first  was  a  series  of  rectangular  X-cut  plates  of 
varying  thickness  shown  in  Fig.  13.  The  second  was  a  series  of  three  circular 
discs  of  different  diameters,  all  being  cut  with  the  large  surfaces  in  the  plane 
of  the  Y  and  Z  axes.  The  three  discs  were  made  from  the  same  material, 
each  smaller  one  being  trepanned  from  the  previous  one  after  complete 
measurements  had  been  made  upon  it.  The  set  of  circular  crystals  remain- 
ing after  these  tests  were  completed  is  shown  in  Fig.  14  and  th^e  slab  from 
which  they  were  cut  is  shown  assembled  with  the  original  large  crystal  in 
Fig.  15. 

Subsequent  tests  showed  that  the  annular  pieces  could  be  designed  for  a 
low  or  zero  coefficient  and  such  a  shape  shown  in  Fig.  16  was  employed  for 
a  number  of  years  in  the  Bell  System  Frequency  Standard  in  New  York 
City^^.  As  described  in  this  reference,  the  reason  for  using  the  ring  in 
preference  to  the  solid  disc  or  rectangular  plate  was  in  the  convenience  of 
mounting.  The  rings  were  formed  with  a  ridge  in  the  central  plane  of  the 
hole  so  that  they  could  be  supported  on  a  horizontal  pin  thus  providing  a 
one-point  support  at  a  position  where  the  vibration  is  very  small.  The  rings 
used  in  this  first  application  of  zero  coefficient  quartz  resonators  have  been 
called  "doughnut"  crystals  for  obvious  reasons.  In  Fig.  17,  George  Hecht 
is  shown  making  a  final  adjustment,  by  "lapping"  with  fine  abrasive,  on  one 
of  the  four  original  zero-coefficient  ring  crystals.  Mr.  Hecht  made  all  four 
of  these  resonators,  as  well  as  many  others  of  various  shapes  and  sizes  used 
in  the  early  experiments  in  this  work. 

Supported  as  described,  the  rings  hang  in  a  vertical  plane  and,  as  first 
used,  they  were  supported  freely  between  solid  electrodes  rather  closely 
spaced  to  the  flat  surfaces.  The  small  amount  of  free  motion  relative  to  the 
electrodes,  inherent  in  this  sort  of  mounting,  caused  occasional  changes  in 
frequency  if  the  support  were  disturbed,  which  at  times  would  be  as  large 
as  one  part  in  ten  million.     To  avoid  this  difficulty,  other  ring  crystals  were 


542  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

constructed  with  a  sort  of  narrow  shelf  at  the  central  plane  that  could  be 
mounted  in  a  horizontal  plane  on  pin  supports.  The  two  methods  of  sup- 
porting the  ring  resonators  are  illustrated  in  Fig.  18.     Such  resonators  were 


Fig.  13 — Set  of  rectangular  quartz  resonators  made  for  zero  temperature  coefficient  study. 


Fig.  14 — Circular  pieces  remaining  after  temperature  coefficient  study  of  quartz  discs 
and  rings. 


Fig.  15 — Large  crystal  and  slab  from  which  low  coefficient  studies  were  made. 

used  in  the  Bell  System  Frequency  Standard  until  1937  when  they  were 
replaced  by  an  entirely  different  type  that  will  be  described  later. 

The  rings  were  adjusted  to  oscillate  at  1(X),000  vibrations  per  second, 
the  frequency  which  has  been  adopted  in  nearly  all  oscillators  of  extremely 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


543 


P'ig.  16 — 100-Kilocycle  quartz  ring  resonator  with  zero  temperature  coefficient. 


Fig.  17 — George  Hecht  iinishing  the  first  set  of  zero-coefficient  quartz  rings. 


constant  rate.  All  of  these  rings  were  constructed  to  have  a  zero  frequency- 
temperature  coefficient  at  a  temperature  in  the  neighborhood  of  40  degrees 
C,  the  frequency  being  a  maximum  at  that  point  on  an  approximately  para- 


544 


B^LL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


bolic  characteristic.  The  zero  temperature  coefficient  makes  it  possible  to 
practically  eliminate  frequency  changes  caused  by  ambient  temperature 
changes  since,  by  relatively  simple  means,  it  is  possible  to  control  the  resona- 
tor within  db  0.01  degree  C,  at  the  temperature  for  which  the  effect  is  sub- 
stantially nil.  The  reduction  of  the  effect  of  temperature,  and  the  stabiliza- 
tion of  the  mounting,  increased  the  stability  of  frequency  control  and  oscil- 
lator-clock rate  beyond  anything  that  had  ever  been  obtained  before. 
Subsequent  improvements  that  will  be  described  later  produced  even  greater 
stabiUty. 

ELECTRODES 


Fig.  18 — Methods  of  mounting  quartz  ring  resonators. 
The  Crystal  Clock 

The  striking  stability  of  the  crystal  oscillator  clock  led  the  author  to  pro- 
pose the  general  use  of  this  type  of  clock  for  precision  timekeeping,  the  chief 
emphasis  having  been  previously  on  the  derivation  of  constant  frequency. 
A  paper  entitled  "The  Crystal  Clock,"^®  presented  before  the  National 
Academy  of  Sciences  in  April,  1930,  described  such  a  clock  and  pointed  out 
some  of  its  properties  and  likely  uses. 

Chief  among  these  properties,  of  course,  is  its  inherent  stabiHty  and  rela- 
tive freedom  from  extraneous  effects.  The  quartz  crystal  clock  is  not 
dependent  on  gravity  and,  without  any  compensating  adjustment,  will 
operate  at  the  same  rate  in  any  latitude  and  at  any  altitude.  This  property 
already  has  been  useful  in  the  measurement  of  gravity  and  gravity  gradient 
by  measuring  the  rates  of  pendulums  on  land  and  at  sea.^"-  ^^ 

The  crystal  clock  is  practically  immune  to  variations  in  level  and  shock 
and  can  be  used  as  an  instrument  of  precision  under  conditions  entirely 
unsuitable  to  pendulum  clocks.  For  this  reason  it  performs  satisfactorily 
in  practically  any  location,  including  earthquake  zones,  and  may  be  used  in 
transit  as  in  a  submarine,  in  an  kirplane  or  on  the  railroad. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  545 

Some  of  the  outstanding  properties  of  the  quartz  oscillator  clock  were  dis- 
cussed in  1932  by  A.  L.  Loomis  and  W.  A.  Marrison^^,  in  relation  to  a  series  of 
experiments  comparing  the  performance  of  quartz  clocks  at  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories  in  New  York  and  a  set  of  synchronome  free-pendulum  clocks 
operating  in  The  Loomis  Laboratory  in  Tuxedo  Park,  about  fifty  miles  away. 
The  comparison  wa$  effected  through  a  circuit  maintained  between  the  two 
laboratories  over  which  a  1,000-cycle  current  controlled  by  a  crystal  in  New 
York  was  used  to  drive  the  Loomis  Chronograph^^  in  Tuxedo  Park.  During 
part  of  the  time,  signals  from  the  clocks  were  sent  back  over  the  same  circuit 
and  recorded  on  the  Bell  Laboratories'  Spark  Chronograph^^. 

The  quartz  oscillator  assembly  at  the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  at  the 
time  of  these  experiments  is  shown  in  Fig.  19.  The  four  ring  crystals  in  their 
individual  temperature-controlled  'ovens'  are  mounted  under  hermetically 
sealed  bell  jars  to  avoid  the  effects  of  ambient  temperature  and  atmospheric 
pressure  changes.  The  vacuum  tube  oscillator  circuits  are  immediately 
below  the  bell  jars;  and  the  control,  monitoring  and  power  supply  equipment 
in  the  remainder  of  the  space. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  results  of  these  cooperative  experiments  was 
the  measurement  of  a  periodic  variation  in  the  rate  of  the  pendulum  clocks 
in  phase  with  the  lunar  daily  cycle.  The  amount  of  this  daily  variation  is 
very  small,  being  only  a  few  tenths  of  a  millisecond,  but  readily  observable 
in  comparison  with  a  stable  rate  standard  that  does  not  vary  with  gravity. 

Further  Reiinemsnts  in  Quartz  Clocks 

The  spectacular  results  from  the  use  of  the  quartz  crystal  clock  up  to  this 
time,  about  1932,  were  due  in  part  to  its  novelty  and  in  part  to  the  fact  that 
it  is  quite  independent  of  some  of  the  variable  factors  that  affect  conventional 
precision  clocks,  including  gravity  itself  upon  which  the  rate  of  all  pendulum 
clocks  depends.  The  remarkable  stability  of  present  day  quartz  oscillators 
and  clocks  is  the  result  of  a  series  of  developments  and  refinements  extending 
over  a  number  of  years. 

As  mentioned  previously,  the  factors  that  cause  departure  from  constant 
rate  in  the  completed  operating  device  fall  into  two  distinct  classes,  namely 
those  which  concern  the  inherent  or  natural  frequency  of  the  resonator  itself, 
and  those  which  concern  the  means  for  driving  it  at  that  inherent  rate. 

The  first  class  comprises  all  those  properties  of  the  mounted  resonator 
which  tend  to  relate  its  inherent  rate  to  ambient  conditions  such  as  tempera- 
ture, atmospheric  pressure,  change  of  position  and  vibration,  and  to  the 
passage  of  time — that  is,  aging.  Since  the  final  stabiUty  cannot  exceed  the 
inherent  stability  of  the  mounted  resonator  itself,  its  study  is  of  prime 
importance. 


546 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


I 


be 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  547 

The  second  class  comprises  properties  of  the  means  for  sustaining  oscilla- 
tions in  such  a  resonator  which  relate  the  resulting  actual  rate  to  variations 
in  the  electrical  circuits,  in  the  power  voltages,  in  vacuum  tubes  and  other 
Hke  effects.  In  the  limit,  it  is  the  hope  that  the  net  result  of  all  such  effects 
can  be  eliminated  so  that  the  stability  of  the  quartz  crystal  alone  will  remain 
the  sole  governing  factor.  This  is  the  goal,  and  the  inherent  stability  of  the 
substance,  quartz  crystal,  is  the  limit  toward  which  the  stability  of  the 
quartz  crystal  clock  will  approach  but  cannot  exceed. 

The  development  of  the  quartz  resonator  and  its  mounting  for  numerous 
applications  is  described  in  some  detail  by  Raymond  A.  Heising  and  his 
collaborators^^  in  their  recent  book,  "Quartz  Crystals  for  Electrical  Circuits". 
Of  all  the  types  of  resonator  described  in  this  work  the  one  having  the  most 
extensive  use  at  the  present  time,  for  quartz  clock  installations  and  for 
other  applications  of  comparable  accuracy,  is  the  GT  crystal  resonator 
developed  by  W.  P.  Mason^^.  This  resonator  is  cut  from  quartz  crystal  in 
such  a  way  that  the  positive  and  negative  coefficients  are  effectively  neutral- 
ized over  a  range  of  about  100  degrees  C,  so  that  in  any  part  of  this  range  the 
resulting  temperature  coefficient  of  frequency  is  not  more  than  one  part  in  a 
million  per  degree  C.  With  suitable  precautions  in  manufacture,  the 
tangent  at  the  point  of  inflection  in  the  frequency-temperature  curve  may  be 
made  horizontal,  which  means  that  the  temperature  coefficient  may  be  made 
substantially  zero  over  a  considerable  range  of  temperature. 

The  GT  crystal  resonator  therefore  introduces  two  significant  advantages 
in  timekeeping,  namely  that  greater  accuracy  of  rate  may  be  obtained  with  a 
given  accuracy  of  temperature  control  and  that  the  value  at  which  the 
temperature  is  controlled  may  be  chosen  in  a  considerable  range.  In  fact, 
without  any  temperature  control  at  all,  the  rate  of  a  clock  regulated  by 
such  a  crystal  may  be  accurate  to  a  tenth  of  a  second  a  day  over  an  ambient 
range  of  100  degrees  C.  Among  the  many  quartz  clock  installations  now 
using  the  GT  resonator,  all  or  in  part,  are  the  Royal  Observatory  at  Green- 
wich, the  British  Post  Office,  the  U.  S.  Naval  Observatory  and  the  U.  S. 
Bureau  of  Standards. 

One  of  the  chief  sources  of  variation  in  rate  of  quartz  oscillators,  in  the 
early  stages  of  their  development,  was  in  the  means  for  mounting  and  in  the 
electrical  circuit  connections.  As  mentioned  previously,  any  variation  in  the 
effective  resistance  or  in  the  effective  mass  or  stiffness  of  a  resonator  has  a 
direct  effect  upon  its  rate  of  oscillation.  The  problem  reduces  to  that  of 
supporting  the  resonator  so  that  the  frictional  losses  are  small  and  constant 
and  so  that  the  coupling  to  the  electrical  circuit  is  as  nearly  as  possible 
invariable. 

The  mounting  of  quartz  crystal  units  is  discussed  at  length  by  R.  M.  C. 


548 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Greenldge  in  Chapter  XIII  of  Mr.  Heising's  book  referred  to  above.^^  The 
most  satisfactory  means  by  far  that  has  been  found  for  mounting  crystals  of 
the  GT  type  is  that  of  actually  soldering  them  to  thin  supporting  wires  by 
means  of  small  discs  of  silver  deposited  on  the  crystal  at  its  nodes.  This 
method  serves  the  double  role  of  supporting  the  crystal  and  of  providing 
electrical  connection  to  metal  electrodes  plated  on  the  crystal.  Resonators 
so  supported  may  be  made  almost  immune  to  mechanical  shock  and  will  con- 
tinue in  satisfactory  operation  through  accelerations  of  several  times  g. 
Nearly  all  crystals  which  vibrate  in  a  long  dimension  are  now  mounted  in 
this  way.     One  manufacturer  produced  about  10,000,000  crystals  of  a  single 


Fig.  20 — Pressure-mounted  GT  crystal  for  sealing  in  a  metal  envelope. 


type  SD  mounted  in  a  three-year  period  during  World  War  II.  Prior  to  the 
use  of  wire  supports,  such  crystals  were  ''pressure  mounted"  by  means  of 
small  metal  jaws  which  clamped  from  opposite  sides  at  the  nodes.  A  GT 
crystal  mounted  in  this  way  is  shown  in  Fig.  20.  Crystals  so  mounted  are 
still  in  use  in  the  Bell  System  Frequency  Standard,  being  the  first  of  the  GT 
crystals  to  go  into  actual  service.  This  type  of  mounting  is  not  quite  so 
stable  as  the  wire  mounting  and  is  somewhat  more  difficult  to  manufacture. 
One  of  the  wire-mounted  crystals  such  as  developed  for  LORAN  and  other 
oscillators  of  comparable  accuracy  is  shown  in  Fig.  21. 

The  plating  of  electrodes  on  the  crystal  surface  has  led  to  increased 
stability  of  frequency  control,  chiefly  because  the  coupling  to  the  electrical 
circuit  may  be  kept  more  nearly  constant  thereby.  When  separate  elec- 
trodes were  employed,  the  variation  in  spacing  was  always  found  to  be  a 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


549 


source  of  instability,  as  mentioned  previously  in  relation  to  the  use  of  the 
first  ring  crystals.  Plating  of  crystals  is  not  a  new  idea  but  the  appHcation 
to  quartz  resonators  of  high  Q  requires  a  great  amount  of  technical  skill  in 
order  to  obtain  coatings  which  are  mechanically  and  chemically  stable  and 
which  utilize  the  minimum  of  added  material.     The  use  of  too  much  metal 


Fig.  21 — Wire-supported  GT  crystal  sealed  in  a  glass  envelope. 


will,  of  course,  impair  the  resonator  by  increasing  its  rate  of  energy  dissipa- 
tion and  probably  its  aging  rate.  The  metal  most  often  used  for  electrodes 
is  silver,  although  gold  and  aluminum  have  been  used  in  special  cases.  Evap- 
oration in  vacuum  has  been  found  to  be  the  most  satisfactory  method  for 
the  actual  plating,  giving  very  adherent  coatings  and  being  subject  to 
precise  manufacturing  control.  The  art  of  plating  quartz  resonators  is 
discussed  in  detail  by  H.  W.  Weinhart  and  H.  G.  Wehe  in  Mr.  Heising's 
book. 


550 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Several  other  factors  have  had  an  important  bearing  on  the  final  stabiUty 
of  quartz  resonators.  One  of  the  most  important  of  these  is  the  care  that 
must  be  exercised  during  fabrication  in  order  to  avoid  setting  up  stresses  in 
the  material  that  subsequently  can  be  relieved  only  slowly.  By  slow  grind- 
ing with  adequately  fine  abrasive  such  effects  can  be  kept  very  small. 
Etching  with  hydrofluoric  acid  has  resulted  in  much  further  improvement 
through  the  removal  of  stressed  surface  material  and  all  potentially  loose 
material  which,  formerly,  often  caused  anomalous  aging  effects.  Artificial 
aging  by  heating,  and  thorough  cleaning  before  and  after  plating,  have  also 
contributed  greatly  to  the  final  stability  of  the  crystal  unit.  The  resonator 
finally  is  mounted  in  high  vacuum  in  a  glass  envelope  in  order  to  eliminate 
losses  due  to  sound  radiation  and  friction,  and  to  protect  it  from  surface 
contamination  and  chemical  action. 


oiO 
Z_J 


0  : 


-20 


30 


1  ORDINARY 
5    X-CUT 

1 

GT 

' 

/" 

"  DOUGHNUT 

^ 

\ 

"            ■ 

20  30         40  50  60  70  80  90 

TEMPERATURE     IN    DEGREES   CENTIGRADE 


Fig.  22 — Frequency-temperature  characteristics  for  three  types  of  quartz  resonators. 


Even  the  most  perfect  quartz  resonator,  in  an  ideal  mounting,  is  unable 
to  keep  time  unless  it  is  maintained  in  oscillation;  and,  like  a  pendulum,  its 
rate  will  depend  in  large  part  on  the  manner  in  which  it  is  driven.  The  same 
general  principles  apply  to  both  cases,  except  that  usually  a  pendulum  is 
driven  by  impulses  which  should  be  applied  when  the  velocity  is  maximum, 
while  a  quartz  resonator  is  usually  driven  by  a  sinusoidal  force  arising 
through  the  piezoelectric  coupling,  and  so  phased  that  the  maximum  force 
occurs  when  the  velocity  is  maximum.  This,  in  fact,  is  a  required  condition 
for  maximum  rate  stability.  The  graphical  analysis  of  Fig.  5  applies  equally 
for  the  case  of  sine  wave  drive,  since  the  sine  wave  can  be  considered  as  the 
summation  of  an  impulse  at  its  peak  and  of  sets  of  pairs  of  impulses  sym- 
metrically disposed  with  respect  to  it.  Obviously,  the  phase  errors  for  each 
such  pair  of  impulses  cancel,  bringing  us  back  to  Airy's  condition,  but  with 
the  broader  view  that,  for  the  feedback  or  driving  wave  to  have  minimum 
effect  on  the  rate  of  an  oscillator,  the  force  wave  must  be  in  phase  with  the 
velocity  of  the  resonator. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  551 

Numerous  vacuum  tube  circuits  have  been  proposed  and  used  for  main- 
taining quartz  resonators  in  oscillation,  some  of  which  are  illustrated  in  Fig. 
8.  The  one  among  these  which  at  present  most  nearly  approaches  the  ideal 
is  that  developed  by  L.  A.  Meacham,  known  as  the  Bridge  Stabilized  Oscil- 
lator.^^ This  oscillator,  in  its  original  form  or  with  slight  modifications, 
is  now  used  almost  universally  in  England  and  America  where  the  maximum 
stability  of  rate  control  is  required. 

In  the  bridge  stabilized  oscillator,  the  feedback  path  is  through  a  Wheat- 
stone  bridge  with  the  crystal  in  one  arm  and  with  resistances  in  the  other 
three.  The  frequency  of  oscillation  becomes  that  for  which  the  reactance 
of  the  crystal  approaches  zero;  the  bridge  can  only  be  balanced  when  the 
crystal  behaves  electrically  like  a  resistance.  The  unbalance  voltage  from 
the  bridge  is  fed  back  into  the  amplifier,  which  should  provide  a  relatively 
high  gain,  as  will  appear.  The  great  frequency  stability  of  this  oscillator 
depends  upon  the  fact  that,  in  the  neighborhood  of  balance,  a  small  phase 
shift  in  the  resonant  elements  causes  an  enormously  larger  phase  shift  in 
the  unbalance  voltage.  But  the  actual  amount  of  this  unbalance  phase 
shift  is  limited  by  the  fact  that  it  must  be  equal  and  opposite  to  that  in  the 
amplifier  in  order  for  oscillations  to  be  sustained.  This  insures  that  at  all 
times  the  phase  shift  in  the  crystal  is  much  smaller  than  that  occurring  in  the 
amplifier  which  itself  can  be  made  small  by  suitable  design.  The  ratio  of  the 
phase  shift  of  the  bridge  output  to  that  of  its  input  increases  as  balance  is 
approached,  making  it  possible  to  practically  ehminate  the  effect  of  phase 
shift  in  the  amplifier  simply  by  increasing  the  amplifier  gain.  Most  of  the 
variable  factors  in  the  amplifier  of  an  oscillator  circuit  affect  the  controlled 
frequency  through  the  phase  shifts  caused  by  them.  It  is  evident,  then, 
that  the  bridge  circuit,  which  permits  only  a  small  fraction  of  such  phase 
shifts  to  become  effective  at  the  resonant  element,  will  substantially  free  the 
resonator  from  variable  effects  in  the  amplifier  and  allow  it  to  control  a  rate 
determined  almost  wholly  by  its  own  properties. 

When  the  above  condition  is  attained  and  the  crystal  resonator,  when 
oscillating,  acts  in  the  circuit  like  an  electrical  resistance,  it  acts  that  way 
because  the  velocity  is  in  phase  with  the  applied  mechanical  force,  which,  as 
has  been  stated,  is  the  condition  for  most  stable  rate  control.  In  the  crystal 
oscillator,  this  ideal  condition  is  obtained  simply  by  the  automatic  balancing 
of  a  bridge  circuit,  accomplishing  in  a  most  elegant  manner  the  equivalent, 
in  the  case  of  a  pendulum,  of  applying  driving  pulses  at  the  exact  center  of 
swing. 

The  bridge-stabilized  oscillator  includes  also  an  automatic  control  of 
amplitude.  The  variation  of  frequency  with  amplitude  is  very  small  and 
in  no  way  comparable  with  the  "circular  error"  of  an  ordinary  pendulum,  but 
in  the  quest  for  the  highest  attainable  stability  it  must  be  taken  into  account. 


552  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  control  of  amplitude  is  obtained  by  the  use  of  a  resistance  with  positive 
temperature  coefficient  in  the  bridge  arm  conjugate  to  the  crystal,  chosen  so 
as  to  have  exactly  the  right  value  to  balance  the  resistance  of  the  crystal  when 
a  specified  current  is  flowing  in  the  bridge.  If  larger  than  normal  current 
flows  momentarily  the  resistance  is  increased,  which  decreases  the  feedback, 
thus  stabilizing  the  amplitude  at  some  predetermined  value.  For  the 
highest  stabihty  it  has  been  found  advantageous  to  operate  the  crystal  at  a 
very  small  fraction  of  the  amplitude  that  normally  would  be  used  in  a  power 
oscillator.  In  power  oscillators  the  crystal  sometimes  is  subjected  to  strains 
near  the  fracture  point,  which  is  not  a  favorable  condition  for  precision 
control.  The  actual  amplitude  of  motion  of  the  crystal  is  of  course  extremely 
small.  In  the  GT  crystal,  as  currently  used,  the  maximum  change  of 
dimensions  during  oscillation  amounts  to  only  about  ±0.0006  per  cent. 

The  improvements  in  quartz  resonators,  and  in  their  driving  circuits,  have 
resulted  in  the  construction  of  quartz  crystal  clocks  that  will  keep  time  with 
an  accuracy  better  than  0.001  second  a  day,  so  that  measurements  of  time 
of  great  interest  and  value  to  astronomers  and  geophysicists  can  now  be  made 
with  an  accuracy  hitherto  unattainable. 

Facility  of  Precise  Time  Measurement 

In  making  such  precise  measurements  of  time  it  is  of  importance,  second 
only  to  the  inherent  accuracy  of  the  standards  themselves,  to  have  available 
means  whereby  they  can  be  carried  out  with  facility  and  within  a  reasonable 
time  interval.  The  ease  with  which  precise  time  measurements,  and  precise 
rate  comparisons,  can  be  made  is  an  outstanding  feature  of  the  quartz 
crystal  clock  and  already  has  an  important  bearing  on  the  use  of  this  type  of 
clock  in  astronomical  observatories.  This  facility  depends  chiefly  on  two 
properties  of  the  oscillator  clock:  first,  that  continuous  rotation  of  controlling 
and  measuring  devices  can  be  produced  having  the  stability  of  the  primary 
control  element;  and,  second,  that  the  period  of  the  control  element,  and 
therefore  of  alternating  current  controlled  by  it,  is  of  very  short  duration. 

The  first  of  these,  through  simple  devices  controlled  directly  from  the 
electrical  output  of  the  crystal  oscillator,  with  suitable  frequency  reducing 
equipment,  permits  of  ready  comparison  between  any  time  phenomena  in 
the  form  of  electric  or  light  signals,  and  of  the  derivation  of  precisely  con- 
trolled time  signals  for  radio  transmission  and  for  laboratory  experiments. 

Of  prime  importance  among  these  comes  the  means  for  rating  crystal  clocks 
in  terms  of  stellar  observations  using  meridian  transits  or  the  photographic 
zenith  tube^.  It  is  possible  to  control  a  mechanism  in  the  time-star  observ- 
ing equipment  so  that  the  difference  between  a  star  position  predicted  from 
the  clock  rate,  and  the  actual  star  position,  can  be  observed  directly  or  re- 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


553 


corded  photographically  with  great  accuracy.  The  difference  thus  observed, 
after  allowing  as  well  as  possible  for  known  systematic  errors,  is  the  best 
known  single  check  on  the  time  indication  of  a  clock.  A  series  of  such 
observations  constitutes  the  best  known  measure  of  the  rate  of  a  clock. 
The  great  value  of  the  method  is  that  the  comparisons  are  made  directly 
without  the  need  of  any  intermediate  mechanism  thus  eliminating  a  large 
part  of  the  "personal  error"  of  observation.  The  probable  error  of  observa- 
tion as  derived  from  a  number  of  such  measurements  on  a  good  night  may  be 
as  small  as  one  or  two  milliseconds^^.  The  average  rate  of  a  clock  thus 
determined  depends  on  the  number  of  days  over  which  the  rate  is  computed 
and  in  a  two-week  period  may  be  compared  with  the  rate  of  the  earth,  that 
is,  with  astronomical  time,  with  an  accuracy  of  one  part  in  one  hundred 


CRYSTAL 
CONTROLLED 
OSCILLATOR  I 


ADJUSTING 

PHASE 

SHIFTER 


illll  I  I    I    I,. II 


CONTINUOUS 

CORRECTING 

PHASE  SHIFTER 


MEAN  SOLAR 
CLOCK 


Fig.  23 — The  use  of  an  electrical  phase  shifter  to  adjust  the  timing  of  a  signal.     (From 
'The  Crystal  Clock",  1930) 


million  or  about  a  third  of  a  second  a  year.  All  this,  of  course,  is  contingent 
on  the  stability  of  the  quartz  clock,  which,  except  for  long-time  effects,  may 
be  demonstrated  independently. 

A  rotating  mechanism  controlled  directly  from  a  crystal  clock  is  admirably 
adaptable  to  the  transmission  of  precise  time  signals.  Rhythmic  signals  of 
any  desired  structure  can  be  produced  readily  by  means  of  cams,  special 
generators,  or  interrupted  light  beams,  and  the  timing  of  those  signals  can 
be  adjusted  as  precisely  as  the  clock  time  is  known  by  simply  advancing  or 
retarding  the  signal  generators.  Such  adjustment  is  attained  readily  by 
means  of  differential  gearing  in  the  mechanical  system,  or  by  means  of  con- 
tinuous phase  shifters  in  the  electrical  driving  circuit.  The  use  of  electrical 
phase  shifters  for  this  purpose  was  first  proposed  in  'The  Crystal  Clock" 
paper^^  previously  mentioned.  Figure  23,  taken  from  that  paper,  illus- 
trates the  manner  of  using  the  phase  shifter  with  one  type  of  time  signal 


554  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

generator.  Extremely  fine  control  of  timing  is  possible  by  means  of  the 
electrical  phase  shifter  since  it  can  be  included  in  the  circuit  at  any  stage  of 
frequency  subdivision.  If,  for  example,  it  is  used  at  the  lowest  frequency, 
assumed  to  be  1,000  cycles,  one  complete  turn  of  the  phase  shifter  dial  will 
cause  a  progressive  time  adjustment  of  one  millisecond.  When  used  at  a 
higher  frequency,  the  precision  of  adjustment  is  increased  correspondingly. 
Continuous  phase  shifters  suitable  for  such  purposes  were  proposed  as  early 
as  1925.®^  The  idea  of  utilizing  continuous  phase  shifters  for  the  purpose 
of  making  controllable  changes  in  the  frequency  or  indicated  time  in  a 
standard  time  and  frequency  system®^  was  first  disclosed  in  a  comprehensive 
patent  filed  in  1934  and  issued  to  Warren  A.  Harrison  in  1937.  The  most 
elegant  type  of  phase  shifting  element  suitable  for  such  purposes  was  de- 
veloped by  Larned  A.  Meacham.®^  xhis  has  been  used  in  many  transmis- 
sion systems  requiring  continuous  variation  of  phase  such  as  in  variable 
direction  radio  beam  systems  ^^  and  LORAN. 

The  conversion  between  mean  solar  time  and  sidereal  time,  or  for  that 
matter  between  any  time  systems,  may  be  accomplished  very  easily  with  the 
quartz  clock.  Having  a  rotating  device,  such  as  a  dial  or  commutator, 
whose  rate  corresponds  to  mean  solar  time,  it  is  only  necessary  to  apply  a 
gearing  or  the  equivalent  to  obtain  another  rate  corresponding  to  sidereal 
time.  It  has  been  shown  by  F.  Hope-Jones*^,  Ernest  Esclangon*^  and 
others  how  any  desired  ratio,  such  as  the  ratio  of  the  rates  of  mean  solar 
and  sidereal  clocks,  can  be  obtained  with  any  required  accuracy  by  gearing. 
A  combined  mechanical  and  electrical  method  was  proposed  in  the  ''Crystal 
Clock"  paper  by  means  of  which  this  ratio  can  be  realized  with  an  accuracy 
of  one  part  in  10^^  using  simple  gearing  and  a  continuous  phase  shifter. 

The  potential  value  of  the  factors  just  discussed  in  precision  time  studies 
was  realized  early  in  the  crystal  clock  development.  This  was  indicated  in 
the  "Crystal  Clock"  paper  written  in  1930  which  closed  with  the  following 
paragraph : 

"It  would  thus  be  possible  to  combine,  in  a  single  system  mean  solar  and  sidereal  time- 
indicating  mechanisms,  means  for  rating  the  clocks  in  terms  of  time  star  observations  and 
means  for  transmitting  time  and  frequency  signals  with  the  absolute  accuracy  of  the  time 
determinations." 

It  is  of  some  interest  to  compare  this  prediction  with  the  present  trend  of 
development.  In  describing  the  quartz  clock  installation  at  the  Royal 
Observatory  in  Greenwich,  Sir  Harold  Spencer  Jones  stated^*  in  1945: 

"The  quartz  clocks  being  installed  at  the  Royal  Observatory  are  all  adjusted  to  give  a 
frequency  of  approximately  100,000  per  mean  time  second.  By  suitable  gearing,  the  syn- 
chronous motor  can  give  impulses  every  sidereal  second  and  tenths  of  seconds.  Thus,  the 
same  clock  can  be  made  to  serve  both  as  a  mean  time  and  as  a  sidereal  time  standard. 
W\  time  signals  are,  of  course,  sent  out  according  to  mean  time;  the  sidereal  time  is  re- 
quired only  for  the  actual  time  determination  so  that  it  is  not  necessary  for  all  the  clocks 
to  have  the  gearing  to  give  sidereal  seconds." 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


555 


The  importance  of  the  convenient  methods  for  measuring  time  and  time 
interval  inherent  to  the  crystal  clock  is  emphasized  by  the  fact  that  some 
observatories  employed  crystal  clock  mechanisms  in  connection  with  stellar 
observations  and  in  the  transmission  of  time  signals  before  they  were  used  in 
the  actual  time  keeping  departments^. 

The  second  property  contributing  greatly  to  the  convenience  of  precise 
time  measurements  is  the  relatively  very  short  period  of  the  quartz  clock 
control  element.  The  chief  advantage  lies  in  the  extreme  accuracy  with 
which  the  rates  and  indicated  times  can  be  compared  by  electrical  methods. 
An  example  will  suffice  to  illustrate  this  point. 


4-------Q— -^ 


^ 


«  ipr"^ 


R^a^  '  i_J 


O,  -  OSCILLATOR  100,000.0    CYCLES. 
O4- OSCILLATOR    100,000.1     CYCLES. 
S- CIRCULAR   TRANSPARENT   SCALE. 
G  -  SPARK    GAP. 


A -FILM    ADVANCING  DEVICE. 
R- RELAY. 

SMG-SUBMULTIPLE   GENERATOR. 
BFI  -  BEAT  FREQUENCY   INDICATOR. 


Fig.  24 — Device  for  comparison  of  oscillator  rates  accurate  to  1  part  in  10,000,000,000. 
(From  "High  Precision  Standard  of  Frequency",  1929.) 


Since  the  rate  of  a  crystal  clock  is  the  rate  of  oscillation  of  the  crystal  or  of 
the  current  driving  it,  it  is  only  necessary,  in  comparing  clock  rates,  to 
measure  the  relative  frequencies  of  the  oscillators  concerned.  This  can  be 
done  by  any  of  the  standard  methods  for  frequency  comparisons^  but,  in  the 
case  of  quartz  clocks,  since  in  general  the  primary  frequencies  are  high  and 
are  nominally  the  same,  special  methods  of  extreme  accuracy  can  be  em- 
ployed. The  apparatus  first  designed  for  the  ultra-precise  comparison  of 
quartz  oscillators  and  capable  of  an  accuracy  of  one  part  in  10^°  was  de- 
scribed by  Harrison  in  1929.^^*  *^'  *^  The  principle  of  its  operation  is 
shown  in  Fig.  24,  reproduced  from  the  paper  "High  Precision  Standard  of 
Frequency". 

Two  oscillators  to  be  compared  were  adjusted  so  as  to  differ  by  about  one 
cycle  in  ten  seconds.  The  problem  reduces  to  that  of  measuring  the  beat 
frequency,  nominally  0.1  cycle  per  second,  with  as  great  accuracy  as  possible. 


556  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

This  was  done  by  measuring  the  duration  of  each  beat  by  a  photographic 
method.  By  means  of  a  modulator,  a  relay,  and  induction  coil,  a  spark  was 
produced  at  the  spark  gap  at  a  definite  phase  of  each  beat  period.  The 
spark  illuminated  the  edge  of  a  transparent  scale  rotating  10  revolutions  per 
second  under  control  of  one  of  the  oscillators,  Oi.  The  transparent  scale 
contained  100  numbered  divisions,  which  therefore  represented  milUseconds 
in  any  time  interval  so  measured.  Each  time  a  spark  occurred,  the  portion 
of  scale  illuminated  was  registered  on  photographic  film.  Thus,  the  dura- 
tion of  each  beat  was  registered  photographically  with  an  accuracy  of  one 
part  in  ten  thousand.  Since  the  beat  frequency  is  one  millionth  of  the  high 
frequency,  the  resulting  comparison  of  high  frequencies  is  precise  to  one  part 
in  ten  thousand  million,  or  1  in  lO^*'.  Actually,  it  was  possible  to  estimate 
fractions  of  a  scale  division  which  gave  greater  precision  of  measurement 
than  was  required  in  the  study  of  oscillators  of  that  date. 

L.  A.  Meacham  in  1940  improved  upon  this  method  of  frequency  com- 
parison by  substituting  an  electronic  relay  for  the  mechanical  relay,  and  by 
using  a  discharge  lamp  instead  of  a  spark  for  illumination.  He  used  the 
improved  apparatus^^  for  studying  the  behavior  of  the  then  new  and  highly 
stable  bridge  stabilized  oscillators. 

Still  further  improvements  in  the  general  method  have  been  repqrted  by 
H.  B.  Law  using  a  "phase  discriminator"  to  trigger  off  a  special  chronometer, 
consisting  of  a  decimal  scaling  counter,  and  thus  avoiding  the  photographic 
process^  °°.  The  scaling  counter  as  used  here  counts  the  number  of  cycles 
of  a  100,000-cycle  input  timing  wave  that  occur  during  any  one  beat  between 
the  two  frequencies  being  compared,  and  registers  that  number,  in  scale  of 
ten,  on  a  system  of  dials  that  can  be  read  directly.  In  comparing  frequencies 
that  are  free  from  interference,  the  accuracy  of  comparison  by  this  means  is 
limited  chiefly  by  the  precision  with  which  the  "phase  discriminator"  can 
mark  the  beginning  of  successive  beats.  An  accuracy  of  one  part  in  10^^  is 
claimed.  This  is  one  of  the  rate  comparison  means  employed  in  the  fre- 
quency and  time  standards  of  the  British  Post  Office  and  in  measurements 
involving  the  quartz  clocks  of  Greenwich  Observatory  and  the  National 
Physical  Laboratory. 

The  scaUng  counter  is  a  particularly  useful  device  for  the  precise  measure- 
ment of  any  time  or  rate  phenomena  that  can  be  reduced  to  the  measure- 
ment of  short  time  intervals.  The  counter  idea  originated  some  years  ago  as 
a  means  for  counting  alpha-particles  and  other  phenomena  associated  with 
radioactivity  studies,  one  of  the  original  devices  being  the  well  known 
Geiger-Muller  counter.  The  basic  scaling  circuit,  used  in  many  counters, 
was  proposed  in  1919  by  W.  H.  Eccles  and  F.  W.  Jordan.  An  interesting 
history  of  counting  circuits  as  applied  primarily  to  the  counting  of  electron 
and  nuclear  particles  has  been  written  by  Serge  A.  Korff  in  his  book  on  that 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  557 

subject  published  in  1946.^°^  The  early  scaling  circuits  operated  on  the 
binary  system,  but  recently  various  circuits  have  been  developed  that  give 
the  count  in  scale-of-ten  notation  with  certain  advantages,  chiefly  that  of 
convenience,  associated  with  the  common  decimal  system  of  notation. 
A  discussion  of  some  modern  binary  and  decade  electronic  counters^"^  ^^3,5 
published  by  I.  E.  Grosdoff  in  September,  1946. 

Methods  of  measurement  such  as  this,  and  the  stable  properties  of  the 
quartz  clock  which  make  them  desirable,  are  of  importance  in  the  precise 
measurement  of  time  because  the  nature  of  variations  in  rate,  so  small  that, 
if  continued  unchanged  they  would  accumulate  to  only  one  second  in  a 
thousand  years,  may  be  studied  under  controlled  conditions  in  the  labora- 
tory, and  with  such  facility  that  a  comparison  with  this  precision  can  be 
made  every  ten  seconds. 

In  a  simpler  manner,  the  short  period  of  one  oscillation  of  the  quartz 
oscillator  is  of  direct  interest  to  the  astronomer  in  connection  with  means  for 
the  intercomparison  of  his  clocks  in  time.  This  reduces  simply  to  counting 
the  number  of  cycles  gained  or  lost  by  one  oscillator,  referred  to  another, 
and  may  be  accomplished  in  a  great  number  of  ways,  yielding,  on  the  basis 
of  whole  numbers  of  cycles,  an  absolute  accuracy  of  time  comparison  of 
0.00001  second. 

An  elegant  method  for  accomplishing  this^^^,  which  also  indicates  auto- 
matically which  clock  is  fast  or  slow,  employs  a  special  vacuum  tube  circuit 
to  produce  a  polyphase  current  having  the  frequency  however  small  of  the 
difference  between  any  two  oscillators  nominally  the  same.  This  polyphase 
current  is  used  to  operate  a  special  synchronous  motor  whose  angular  posi- 
tion corresponds  at  all  times  to  the  phase  angle  of  the  vector  representing  the 
polyphase  current.  This  relation  holds  all  the  way  to  zero  frequency  differ- 
ence, in  which  condition  the  angular  position  of  the  motor,  now  at  rest, 
indicates  the  phase  relation  between  the  two  high  frequencies.  If  the  beat 
frequency  goes  through  zero,  the  motor  reverses.  By  this  means,  it  is 
possible  with  very  simple  equipment  to  set  up  dial  indicators  showing  con- 
tinuously the  time  comparisons  between  any  group  of  quartz  clocks,  taken 
in  pairs,  with  an  absolute  accuracy  of  0.00001  second.  Of  course,  to  operate 
other  indicators,  contacts,  etc.  from  this  device  is  a  simple  mechanical 
problem. 

The  principle  of  operation  of  the  polyphase  modulator  is  illustrated  in 
Fig.  25,  which  shows  one  of  the  many  possible  forms  of  this  device.  Other 
modulator  elements  than  vacuum  tubes  are  used  in  some  applications.  In 
the  form  shown  here  it  is  necessary  only  to  assume  that  the  vacuum  tubes 
produce  second-order  modulation,  the  lowest-frequency  component  of  which 
is  employed.  If  inputs  at  the  two  frequencies  /i  and  /2,  which  are  nearly 
the  same,  are  delivered  into  the  two  balanced  modulators  A  and  B  in  such  a 


INPUT,  f, 


Fig.  25 — Polyphase  modulator  for  the  absolute  comparison  of  two  oscillators  of  nearly 
the  same  frequency. 


Fig.  26 — Spark  chronograph — schematic  of  operation. 
558 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  559 

way  that  there  is  a  90-degree  phase  shift  between  the  two  input  voltages  for 
one  of  the  frequencies,  the  lowest-frequency  component  appears  as  a  sinusoidal 
current  in  the  output  circuits  1,  2,  3  and  4  separated  in  phase  by  90  electrical 
degrees  in  cyclic  rotation.  The  principal  output,  therefore,  is  a  4-phase 
current  having  the  frequency  of  the  difference  between  the  two  inputs.  If 
the  magnetic  circuits  are  arranged  geometrically  as  shown,  the  resulting 


Fig.  27 — Spark  chronograph — close  view  of  mechanism. 

magnetic  vector  will  rotate  clockwise  or  counterclockwise  depending  on 
which  frequency  is  high,  or  will  remain  stationary,  indicating  the  phase 
relation,  if  the  two  frequencies  are  exactly  equal. 

Motors  have  been  designed  and  are  commercially  available  suitable  for 
operating  synchronously  from  such  polyphase  modulators,  and  form  an 
excellent  basis  for  the  intercomparison  of  quartz  oscillators  and  clocks  with 
ultra-high  precision. 

For  making  records  of  time  comparisons  the  spark  chronograph^  shown 
in  Figs.  26  and  27  has  served  a  very  useful  purpose,  combining  in  a  single 


560  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

convenient  instrument  the  means  for  comparing  recurrent  time  phenomena 
with  an  accuracy  of  a  millisecond  or  two  on  a  continuous  chart  which  shows 
the  records  for  an  entire  week.  Electrical  impulses,  related  to  the  time 
phenomena  to  be  recorded,  operate  trigger  tubes  which  discharge  condensers 
through  the  primary  of  an  induction  coil  and  cause  sparks  to  jump  from 
a  rotating  spiral  through  a  special  chart  paper  having  a  dark  colored  backing 


Fig.  28 — Photomicrograph  of  single  spark  record  showing  nature  of  recording  on  wax- 
coated  chart  paper.     X  100 

and  coated  with  a  very  thin  layer  of  white  wax.  As  the  chart  paper  moves 
slowly  under  the  spiral,  corresponding  to  the  time  abscissa,  the  succession 
of  sparks  produces  readily  visible  traces  consisting  of  rows  of  tiny  holes  with 
small  areas  around  them  where  the  wax  is  melted  revealing  the  dark  back- 
ground. The  holes  are  so  small  as  to  be  scarcely  visible,  the  darkened  areas 
constituting  the  visible  trace.  Figure  28  shows  an  enlargement  of  the 
record  of  a  single  spark  illustrating  the  nature  of  the  marking.  A  recorder ^"'^ 
very  much  like  the  Bell  Laboratories'  spark  chronograph  is  used  currently 
as  part  of  the  standard  frequency  and  time  broadcast  equipment  of  the  U.  S. 
Bureau  of  Standards. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  561 

Applications  of  Quartz  Clocks 

The  many  useful  properties  of  the  quartz  crystal  clock  have  been  the 
reason  for  its  wide  and  expanding  application  for  the  precise  measurement 
of  time  and  rate. 

First  in  historical  order  was  the  application  to  the  measurement  and  con- 
trol of  frequency  in  communication.  In  this,  the  clock,  through  comparisons 
with  astronomical  time,  served  as  the  means  for  determining  the  frequency 
controlling  it,  the  stability  from  the  outset  being  great  enough  over  intervals 
of  a  day  or  more  so  that  the  average  rate,  as  determined  by  daily  checks  with 
time  signals,  was  a  very  close  approximation  to  the  instantaneous  rate  at 
any  time  intervening.  The  first  of  these  clocks,  already  referred  to^°,  was 
constructed  in  1927  at  the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  in  New  York  City, 
primarily  for  use  as  an  accurate  standard  of  frequency.  Since  that  first 
experiment,  three  subsequent  installations  have  been  built  in  replacement 
with  progressively  improved  performance.  The  standard  now  in  operation 
(1947)  was  installed  in  1937,  using  the  first  laboratory  model  GT  crystals 
and  the  first  set  of  four  bridge-stabilized  oscillators,  and  has  been  in  opera- 
tion continuously  since  that  time.  Two  of  the  four  oscillators,  mounted  in  a 
temperature  controlled  booth,  are  shown  in  Fig.  29,  and  part  of  the  auxiliary 
equipment,  including  a  clock  dial,  a  spark  chronograph  and  some  monitoring 
equipment,  is  shown  in  Fig.  30.  This  apparatus  serves  as  the  standard  for 
precise  measurements  of  frequency  and  time  throughout  the  Bell  System  and 
is  used  to  regulate  the  telephone  Time  of  Day  Service  in  New  York  City. 
It  is  the  standard  of  reference  for  the  electric  light  and  power  services  in 
Metropolitan  New  York^^^,  and  is  used  for  a  number  of  other  similar  services, 
distributed  through  the  medium  of  a  submaster  installation^"^  maintained 
by  the  Long  Lines  Department  of  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph 
Company.  The  original  oscillators  in  this  submaster  installation  were 
controlled  by  electrostatically-coupled  4000-cycle  steel  tuning  forks  in  vacuo 
but  recently  have  been  replaced  by  improved  oscillators  controlled  by  4000- 
cycle  bi-morph  quartz  resonators. 

A  clock  shown  in  Fig.  31,  which  is  on  display  in  a  window  of  the  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company  at  195  Broadway,  is  controlled  from 
this  source.  It  is  sometimes  called  "The  World's  Most  Accurate  Public 
Clock". 

The  facility  with  which  standard  frequency  and  time  services  can  be 
provided  and  distributed  is  an  outstanding  feature  of  the  quartz  clock 
development.  Such  services,  having  the  accuracy  of  the  primary  controlling 
standard,  may  be  provided  anywhere  that  can  be  reached  through  a  suitable 


562 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


communication  channel.  As  an  example  of  this,  a  new  primary  standard 
equipment  is  being  constructed  for  installation  at  the  Murray  Hill,  New 
Jersey  location  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  the  services  of  which  will  be 


Fig.  29 — Two  of  the  four  quartz  oscillators  of  ihe  licU  S\stcm  Frequency  Standard, 
1937  to  date. 

made  available  through  permananet  wiring  to  all  departments  concerned. 
A  number  of  frequencies  in  the  range  from  60  to  10,000,000  cycles,  all  con- 
trolled from  the  same  crystal  source,  will  be  made  available  at  some  thirty 
locations  at  the  Murray  Hill  Laboratories,  as  well  as  to  other  laboratories 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


563 


of  the  Bell  System  and,  through  the  Long  Lines  Department,  to  outside 
agencies. 

A  considerable  number  of  quartz  clocks  have  been  built  and  used  in 
laboratories  and  observatories  all  over  the  world,  some  as  standards  of 


Fig.  30 — Clock  dial  and  monitoring  equipment  associated  with  the  Bell  System  Fre- 
quency Standard,  1937  to  date. 


frequency,  some  as  precise  clocks,  and  others  for  general  use  in  all  measure- 
ments of  rate  and  time.  It  would  be  impossible  to  mention  all  of  these,  for 
already  there  are  many  of  them.  But  certain  installations  are  of  especial 
interest  and  will  be  discussed  briefly. 


564 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


When  the  Crystal  Clock  was  first  described  as  such  in  April  1930,  the  idea 
was  discussed  quite  widely  in  Europe  and  America,  and  it  was  not  long 
before  the  work  was  duplicated  and  extended  in  other  places.  The  first 
outstanding  application  of  the  quartz  clock  to  astronomy  was  made  in 


Fig  31 — Display  clock  at  195  Broadway,  New  York.  This  clock,  controlled  by  the 
Bell  System  Frequency  Standard,  shows  the  same  time  as  that  of  the  New  York  Telephone 
Time  Service. 


Germany  with  the  installation  at  the  Physikalisch-Technische  Reichsanstalt 
This  was  described  by  Scheibe  and  Adelsberger  in  1932^°^  and  1934^°^,  and 
reports  of  its  splendid  performance  continued  periodically.  It  was  with 
this  installation  that  it  was  possible  for  the  first  time  to  observe  and  measure 
variations  in  the  earth's  rate  occurring  over  intervals  as  short  as  a  few  weeks. 
Previous  measurements  of  such  variations,  involving  studies  of  motion  of  the 
moon,  the  planets,  and  Jupiter's  satellites,  had  required  years  to  obtain 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  565 

comparable  information  which,  of  course,  by  nature,  could  never  reveal 
short-term  factors. 

Soon  after  the  inauguration  of  the  quartz  clocks  at  the  Physikalisch- 
Technische  Reichsanstalt,  somewhat  similar  installations  were  made  at  the 
Prussian  Geodetic  Institute  at  Potsdam^^^,  and  at  the  Deutsche  Seewarte  in 
Hamburg"^  The  latter  has  been  moved  because  of  war  conditions  and  is  now 
the  Deutsche  Hydrographische  Institut.  The  quartz  resonators  used  in  these 
installations  are  believed  to  be  similar  to  those  in  Clocks  III  and  IV  in  the 
Physikalisch-Technische  Reichsanstalt  installation  except  that  some  of  them 
were  made  for  100  kilocycles  instead  of  the  original  60  kilocycles.  They 
were  made  by  the  firm  Rohde  and  Schwarz  where  also  is  maintained  a  quartz 
clock  installation  of  extremely  high  precision  "^ 

For  a  number  of  years  the  U.  S.  Bureau  of  Standards  at  Washington,  D.  C. 
has  maintained  a  quartz  clock  installation  for  their  extensive  constant 
frequency  and  time  services.  The  early  history  of  this  installation  was 
described  in  some  detail  by  E.  L.  Hall,  V.  E.  Heaton  and  E.  G.  Clapham  in 
1935.^^-  As  is  now  well  known,  the  Bureau  broadcasts  a  number  of  precisely 
controlled  carrier  frequencies  at  all  times,  all  of  which  carry  standard  time 
and  frequency  modulations,  including  audible  pitch  standards  and  time 
signals.  The  audible  pitch  standards  are  4000  cycles  and  440  cycles,  while 
the  time  signals  consist  of  a  succession  of  seconds  pulses,  continuous  except 
for  certain  omissions  for  the  purpose  of  identifying  longer  time  intervals. 
All  of  these  rates,  including  the  carrier  frequencies,  are  derived  directly  from 
crystal  oscillators  and  are  known  so  well  that  their  accuracy  as  transmitted 
is  estimated  as  one  part  in  50,000,000  at  all  times.  The  relative  rates  of  the 
standard  oscillators  are  compared  and  recorded  continuously  at  the  Bureau 
of  Standards  with  an  accuracy  of  one  part  in  10^.  The  time  signals  involved 
in  these  transmissions  are  so  precise,  and  so  convenient  to  use,  that  they 
may  be  employed  for  the  high-precision  intercomparison  of  quartz  clocks 
across  the  Atlantic  and  for  studies  in  astronomical  time,  heretofore  difficult 
or  impossible  to  accomplish  by  any  other  means. 

The  present  standard  frequency  and  time  service  facilities  at  the  U.  S. 
Bureau  of  Standards,  which  have  been  instituted  under  the  general  direction 
of  J.  H.  Dellinger,  are  described  in  recent  separate  articles  '  by  Vincent 
E.  Heaton  and  W.  D.  George  respectively  of  the  Bureau,  both  of  whom  have 
made  very  substantial  contributions  to  this  development.  The  transmitting 
station  for  the  standard  frequency  broadcasts,  which  comprises  a  complete 
set  of  quartz  oscillators  and  control  and  measuring  equipment,  is  shown  in 
Fig.  32. 

The  absolute  rates  for  the  crystal  oscillators  at  the  Bureau  of  Standards 
are  determined  through  cooperation  with  the  U.  S.  Naval  Observatory,  also 


566 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


i 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  567 

at  Washington,  where  time  determinations  of  great  accuracy  are  made  by 
means  of  a  Photographic  Zenith  Tube  and  a  set  of  quartz  clocks.  A  con- 
tinuous precise  check  is  maintained  between  these  organizations  by  radio 
communication  so  that  the  Naval  Observatory  time  signals  sent  out  from 
NSS  at  Annapolis  and  other  Navy  stations,  and  from  WWV  the  Bureau 
of  Standards  radio  transmitting  station  at  Beltsville,  Md.,  as  well  as  all  the 
carrier  frequencies  from  Beltsville,  are  very  accurately  determined  and 
maintained  in  agreement  throughout. 

The  time  studies  of  the  U.  S.  Naval  Observatory  up  to  1937  are  described 
in  two  important  articles  by  J.  F.  Hellweg,  then  Superintendent  of  the 
Observatory.  The  first  of  these^^^  in  1932  describes  the  state  of  the  art  just 
before  the  quartz  clock  entered  the  scene,  and  the  second^^  in  1937,  already 
referred  to,  tells  of  some  of  the  first  improvements  brought  about  by  its  use 
including  the  elegant  method  for  making  direct  photographic  time-star 
checks  of  the  crystal  clock  rate  by  means  of  the  Photographic  Zenith  Tube. 
Many  of  the  advances  involving  the  use  of  quartz  clocks  at  the  Naval 
Observatory  have  not  as  yet  been  published. 

The  British  Post  Office  and  the  National  Physical  Laboratory  with  labora- 
tories at  Dollis  Hill  and  Teddington  respectively,  in  cooperation  with  the 
Royal  Observatory  at  Greenwich,  have  done  much  the  same  sort  of 
thing  in  England  in  relation  to  time  and  frequency  measurements  and  broad- 
cast services  as  has  just  been  described.  Considering  the  number  of  crystal 
units  among  these  organizations  and  the  precise  nature  of  the  intercompari- 
sons  maintained  between  them,  this  is  probably  the  most  extensive  and 
elaborate  quartz  clock  system  in  the  world.  In  connection  with  Greenwich 
Observatory  alone,  the  complete  installation  includes  eighteen  or  more  such 
clocks  used  in  deriving  the  best  possible  mean  rate  from  steller  observations 
at  Greenwich  and  from  studies  of  other  time  observatories  throughout  the 
world. 

An  outline  description  of  the  quartz  clocks  of  Greenwich  Observatory,  and 
of  their  function  there,  has  been  discussed  by  Humphry  M.  Smith  in  Elec- 
trical Times^^^  (London)  in  March  1946.  These  clocks  employ  for  the  most 
part  the  GT  cut  crystal,  first  described  by  W.  P.  Mason,  the  bridge  stabilized 
oscillator  circuit  developed  by  L.  A.  Meacham,  and  the  regenerative  modula- 
tor type  of  frequency  dividers  similar  to  those  first  developed  by  R.  L. 
Miller. 

The  accuracy  of  the  quartz  clocks  exceeds  that  of  the  best  pendulum 
clocks  with  the  result  that  quartz  clocks  are  now  used  exclusively  in  the  most 
precise  measurements  of  time.  Some  of  the  considerations^^^  leading  up  to 
the  adoption  of  quartz  clocks  at  Greenwich  were  discussed  in  1937  by  H. 
Spencer  Jones,  Astronomer  Royal.  Since  then,  reports  have  appeared  from 
time  to  time  by  the  Astronomer  RoyaP*-"^  and  others"*  concerning  the 


568 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


adoption  and  use  of  quartz  clocks  there.  Some  interesting  sidelights  on  this 
'Trecision  Timekeeping  Revolution"  were  written  by  F.  Hope- Jones  in  two 
articles^^"  for  the  Horological  Journal  during  the  same  year.  The  quartz 
clock  itself,  as  developed  by  the  British  Post  Office  for  Greenwich  Observ-a- 
tory,  was  described^^^  in  some  detail  by  C.  F.  Booth  in  the  P.O.E.E.  Journal 
for  July  1946.  A  more  general  treatment  involving  some  of  the  same 
apparatus  was  presented^-^  by  C.  F.  Booth  and  F.  J.  M.  Laver  in  the  I.  E.  E. 
Journal  of  the  same  month. 


Fig.  3d> — Crystal  chronometer  for  geophysical  studies,  consisting  of  100  KC.  GT-cut 
crystal,  bridge  oscillator,  and  frequency  converters  to  derive  precision  500-Cycle  output 
to  operate  timing  devices. 


An  outstanding  example  of  the  versatility  of  the  quartz  clock  has  been  its 
application  to  the  measurement  of  gravity  at  sea.  Knowing  of  its  stable 
properties  and  its  independence  of  gravity,  Dr.  Maurice  Ewing  in  December 
1935,  asked  the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  whether  a  portable  quartz 
clock  could  be  made  available  for  use  during  a  proposed  gravity  measuring 
expedition  by  submarine  in  the  West  Indies.  Since  this  was  in  line  with 
experimental  work  already  in  progress  at  the  time,  the  first  portable  ^'crystal 
chronometer",  shown  in  Fig.  ?>3>j  was  assembled  for  this  occasion,  and  was 
taken  by  Ewing  and  his  colleagues  in  the  U.  S.  Submarine  Barracuda  on  the 
trip*"'  *'  which  began  at  Coco  Solo  on  November  30,  1936,  This  was  the 
first  application  of  the  GT  crystal  and  the  bridge  stabilized  oscillator  in 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  569 

portable  equipment.  This  original  crystal  chronometer  has  been  on  several 
gravity-measuring  expeditions  and  is  still  in  active  service,  having  been  used 
again  under  Dr.  Ewing's  direction  during  the  summer  of  1947. 

Gravity  determinations  at  sea  are  made  by  measuring  the  rate  of  a  special 
triple  pendulum  that  was  invented  by  F.  A.  Vening  Meinesz  especially  for  use 
in  unsteady  environments^^^  Previously,  the  standard  of  rate  had  been 
the  usual  ship's  chronometers,  but  Ewing  found  the  crystal  chronometer  to 
be  an  improvement  for  his  purposes,  saying  in  part:  'This  chronometer  is  not 
thermostatted,  and  temperatures  in  a  submarine  change  greatly  during  a 
dive.  No  elaborate  control  over  battery  voltages  was  used.  The  cruise 
started  in  the  tropics  and  ended  in  Philadelphia  in  mid-winter.  It  is  highly 
significant  that  the  interval  between  NAA-time  and  the  chronometer-time 
never  exceeded-  0.6  second  during  the  six-week's  cruise  and  that  the 
variation  in  this  inter\'al  is  very  regular.  The  crystal  chronometer  has 
reduced  errors  in  gravity-measurements  at  sea,  due  to  the  rate  of  the  chro- 
nometer, to  the  point  where  they  are  negligible." 

Some  years  previous  to  the  construction  of  the  crystal  chronometer,  a  self- 
contained  quartz  clock  was  made  to  illustrate  the  possibility  of  a  compact 
assembly,  but  it  was  not  sufficiently  portable  for  the  submarine  expedition. 
This  earlier  clock  was  regulated  by  a  quartz  sphere  such  as  used  by  'crystal 
gazers'.  The  frequency  of  the  sphere  was  not  adjusted,  but  its  natural 
frequency,  which  happened  to  be  33212,  was  adopted  to  operate  a  mean-time 
dial  by  the  choice  of  a  suitable  gear  train.  Since  that  time  much  more 
compact  assemblies  have  been  built  using  more  suitable  crystals  for  control. 

The  stable  properties  of  the  quartz  clock  have  been  useful  in  a  number  of 
cases  requiring  precise  synchronization.  Perhaps  the  most  noteworthy 
among  these  is  the  application  to  Long  Range  Navigation  known  as  LORAN. 
In  this  application,  pairs  of  transmitting  stations,  usually  on  shore  and  sep- 
arated by  accurately  known  distances,  send  out  distinctive  signals  in  syn- 
chronism. The  tune  interv^al  between  these  signals,  as  received  by  a  ship, 
identifies  the  locus  of  all  the  points  corresponding  to  that  time  interval. 
The  set  of  curves  corresponding  to  all  feasible  time  intervals  defines  one  of 
the  coordinates  in  a  two-coordinate  system.  The  other  coordinate  is  pro- 
vided in  identical  manner  by  another  pair  of  shore  transmitters  (which 
may  have  one  station  in  common  with  the  first  pair).  The  resulting  coor- 
dinate system  consists  of  two  families  of  intersecting  hyperbolas.  From  the 
geometry  of  these  curves,  and  the  constants  of  the  signals,  the  complete 
figure  bounded  by  the  ship  and  the  transmitters  can  be  determined  readily. 

The  need  for  stability  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  the  relation  between 
time  error  and  location  error  is  roughly  5  microseconds  per  mile.  In  some 
cases,  location  within  a  mile  is  highly  desirable  even  at  considerable  dis- 


570  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

tances.  Sometimes  the  two  shore  stations,  operating  as  quartz  clock  time 
transmitters,  must  operate  for  hours  without  intersynchronization,  which 
calls  for  very  great  constancy  of  rate.  One  microsecond  per  hour  corre- 
sponds to  one  part  in  3.6  X  10^. 

The  precise  synchronization  of  mechanical  parts  in  remotely  situated 
stations  can  be  accomplished  readily.  For  a  number  of  years,  the  5-band 
privacy  system  of  the  transatlantic  radio  telephone  service  has  been  thus 
synchronized,  the  apparatus  at  the  American  terminal  being  controlled  by 
the  Bell  System  Frequency  Standard  while  that  at  the  English  terminal 
is  controlled  independently  by  similar  equipment  in  the  British  Post 
Office.  The  accuracy  requirement  for  this  particular  purpose  is  not 
very  great.  However,  it  has  been  found  possible  to  maintain  two  or  more 
rotating  shafts  at  remote  and  independent  stations  so  precisely  controlled  by 
independent  quartz  oscillators  that  they  never  depart,  during  hours  of  opera- 
tion, by  more  than  one  fifth  of  one  degree  of  arc. 

A  major  project  in  which  the  quartz  clock  is  destined  to  take  an  important 
part  is  that  of  making  world-wide  land  and  water  surveys  in  order  to  locate 
more  accurately  boundaries  and  other  features  of  the  earth's  surface.  There 
would  be  applications  to  sea  and  air  navigation  and  it  would  be  of  great 
value  to  geophysicists  in  studying  the  figure  of,  and  changes  in,  the  earth's 
surface.  By  the  combination  of  a  widely  dispersed  set  of  Photographic 
Zenith  Tubes  associated  with  quartz  clocks  and  time  signal  means  for  com- 
munication, and  with  the  powerful  ranging  techniques  growing  out  of 
LORAN  and  RADAR,  it  should  be  possible  to  obtain  a  new  order  of  ac- 
curacy in  long  distance  surveying. 

The  new  order  of  accuracy  of  time  measurement  has  made  it  possible  for 
the  first  time  to  study  directly  the  variations  in  longitude  caused  by  the 
irregular  wandering  of  the  poles.  These  are  small  effects  and  heretofore 
could  only  be  determined  by  inference  from  observations  of  apparent 
latitude  variations  at  remote  stations.  With  the  added  new  techniques 
it  should  be  possible  to  learn  a  great  deal  about  these  and  other  phenomena 
related  to  real  or  apparent  variations  in  longitude. 

Two  other  possible  applications,  involving  the  precise  control  of  angular 
movement  so  readily  obtainable  with  synchronous  motors  operated  from 
quartz  crystal  controlled  alternating  current,  are  of  considerable  interest. 
The  first  is  that  of  operating  the  right  ascension  control  of  a  telescope 
directly  from  the  amplified  output  of  a  crystal-controlled  low  frequency. 
Vacuum  tube  amplifiers  and  synchronous  motors  are  commercially  available 
with  which  this  could  be  accomplished  by  suitable  gearing.  In  addition,  of 
course,  it  would  be  necessary  to  include  auxiliary  controls  to  allow  for 
atmospheric  and  other  transient  effects,  and  for  obtaining  rates  of  motion 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  571 

other  thatt  sidereal.  For  small  and  slowly  changing  effects  this  could  be  taken 
care  of  very  simply  by  means  of  electrical  circuits  now  well  known  for  adding 
or  subtracting  small  changes  in  the  control  frequency. 

The  other  apphcation  refers  to  a  suggestion  made  by  the  author  a  few 
years  ago^^^  for  the  measurement  of  gravity,  and  changes  in  gravity,  by 
comparison  of  the  forces  Mg  and  Mcc'^R.  The  proposal  was  based  on  the 
idea  that  co  can  be  measured  or  produced  with  an  accuracy  two  or  more 
orders  greater  than  required,  and  that  the  problem  reduces  to  that  of  balanc- 
ing two  forces  and  of  measuring  a  linear  displacement.  The  physical  set-up 
would  be  some  form  of  conical  pendulum  driven  at  constant  angular  velocity 
about  the  vertical  axis  under  control  of  a  crystal.  Some  such  arrangements 
are  shown  in  the  reference. 

Future  Possibilities 

It  is  part  of  the  nature  of  a  scientist  to  extrapolate  ahead  of  any  current 
development  and  to  wonder  what  lies  beyond.  That  feeling  is  certainly 
justified  in  the  field  of  time  measurement,  for  the  major  advances  have 
taken  place  in  so  short  a  period  and  so  recently,  as  compared  with  the 
thousands  of  years  during  which  Man  has  been  time-conscious  in  some 
degree,  that  it  is  reasonable  to  expect  continued  advancement  for  many  years 
to  come.  Such  advancement  may  come  as  improvements  and  refinements 
in  existing  techniques,  or  radically  new  methods  may  be  developed  with 
inherently  more  stable  potentiaHties. 
Accuracy  of  Rate 

In  the  first  place,  it  is  not  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  final  accuracy 
that  can  be  attained  with  the  quartz  crystal  clock  has  been  reached;  in  view 
of  the  rapid  current  progress  indicated  in  the  chart  of  Fig.  1,  it  is  much  too 
soon  to  assume  this,  and  there  is  considerable  evidence  that  improvements 
could  be  made  by  making  fuller  use  of  some  of  the  stable  properties  of  quartz 
crystal  and  of  refinements  in  the  mounting  and  sustaining  circuits.  The 
quartz  oscillator  assemblies  in  most  general  use  at  the  present  time  embody 
some  compromises  which  it  would  not  be  necessary  to  make  if  an  all-out 
effort  were  being  made  to  construct  a  few  clocks  having  the  highest  attain- 
able stability  under  the  most  favorable  conditions  of  operation. 

The  first  of  these  concerns  the  shape  and  size  of  the  resonator  itself  and  is 
related  to  the  frequency  of  oscillation.  From  the  standpoint  of  stability  of 
operation,  the  actual  frequency  that  is  used  in  the  oscillator  is  of  little  con- 
cern because  it  is  now  a  very  simple  matter  to  obtain  low  frequencies,  suitable 
for  the  operation  of  mechanisms,  starting  with  any  frequency  that  can  be 
controlled  by  a  crystal  resonator.  The  choice  of  100,000  cycles  for  the  first 
zero-coefficient  resonator  was  made  because,  as  a  standard  of  frequency, 


572  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

that  value  was  a  good  median  for  the  range  of  frequencies  then  used  in 
electrical  communication.  For  use  in  a  clock  any  other  frequency  would 
answer  just  as  well,  so  the  inherent  stability  of  the  resonator  should  be  given 
first  consideration. 

One  of  the  inhibitions  imposed  on  the  design  of  quartz  resonators  has 
grown  out  of  the  dwindling  available  supply  of  large  pieces  of  perfect  crystal 
quartz.  Where  large  quantity  production  is  involved  this  is  an  important 
consideration,  but  for  the  small  numbers  required  in  a  few  observatories 
and  national  laboratories  it  should  not  be  a  limiting  factor. 

Except  for  whatever  added  difficulties  might  be  entailed  in  the  mounting, 
it  seems  reasonable  that  a  large  resonator  should  be  more  stable  than  a  very 
small  one.  The  most  fundamental  reason  for  this  is  the  proportionate 
change  in  effective  size  that  would  result  from  the  transfer  of  any  surface 
material  including  even  the  quartz  itself. 

Every  substance  is  supposed  to  have  some  vapor  pressure  although  in  some 
cases  it  is  very  minute.  However,  we  are  concerned  with  very  minute 
effects,  and  it  is  worthwhile  to  consider  what  would  happen  if  there  were  any 
evaporation  or  condensation  of  material.  The  possibility  of  this  being  an 
important  effect  is  evident  when  we  reahze  that  the  removal  of  a  single  layer 
of  molecules  from  the  end  of  a  resonator  one  centimeter  long  would  increase 
its  frequency  by  about  five  parts  in  a  hundred  million.  The  effect  on 
frequency  would  vary  about  inversely  as  the  effective  length,  which  favors 
a  large  crystal.  Such  a  transfer  of  material  could  be  inhibited  to  some 
extent  by  operating  at  a  low  temperature  and  by  seeking  equilibrium  between 
the  quartz  material  of  the  resonator  and  other  quartz  material  within  the 
same  envelope.  Of  ourse,  other  materials  than  quartz  may  be  involved  in 
similar  surface  phenomena  and  should  be  thoroughly  studied  and  controlled. 
This  has  a  strong  bearing,  of  course,  on  the  use  of  conductive  materials 
deposited  on  a  resonator  for  the  purpose  of  electrical  coupling  to  it. 

The  slightest  trace  of  surface  contamination  has  a  deleterious  effect  on  the 
damping  coefficient.  Professor  K.  S.  Van  Dyke  in  1935  made  a  series  of 
measurements  on  resonators  of  uniform  shape  and  size  but  constructed  with 
a  considerable  range  of  surface  treatments'^.  In  the  construction  of  different 
resonators  used  in  these  tests  he  used  different  grades  of  abrasive  and 
various  amounts  of  etching  with  hydrofluoric  acid.  In  these  experiments  he 
operated  them  under  varying  degrees  of  refinement  with  regard  to 
contamination  of  the  surfaces  and  found  that  the  highest  Q  was  obtain- 
able only  after  the  utmost  care  was  exercised  in  keeping  the  surfaces 
free  from  foreign  material.  The  effect  is  so  striking,  in  fact,  that  it  leads 
one  to  wonder  whether  there  is  any  actual  elastic  hysteresis  in  the  material 
of  quartz  crystal,  or  whether  the  minute  energy  losses  observed  are  entirely 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  573 

surface  and  coupled  effects.  Since,  for  a  given  shape,  the  volume  increases 
with  Hnear  dimension  in  greater  porportion  than  the  surface  area,  it  can  be 
inferred  that  surface  phenomena  would  affect  a  large  resonator  less  than  a 
smaller  one. 

This  is  also  a  reason  for  employing  a  stubby  shape,  in  order  that  the  volume 
of  crystal  may  bear  as  large  a  ratio  as  possible  to  its  surface  area.  From 
this  standpoint  alone  a  sphere  would  be  ideal  but  for  other  reasons,  chiefly 
concerned  with  the  temperature  coefficient,  it  would  be  unsuitable.  It  is 
probable  that  a  polished  prolate  spheroid,  properly  oriented  with  respect  to 
the  erystal  axes,  would  satisfy  both  conditions.  Such  a  resonator  could 
be  supported  by  a  pair  of  wires,  serving  also  as  electrical  leads  from  metal- 
plated  electrodes,  using  techniques  already  well  established. 

Crystal  resonators  as  now  used  in  many  of  the  most  stable  oscillators  have 
been  constructed  to  withstand  severe  mechanical  shock  while  in  operation. 
It  is  likely  that  a  slight  improvement  in  frequency  stability  might  be  ob- 
tained by  relaxing  a  Uttle  on  the  mechanical  stability  of  the  present  support. 
Where  the  greatest  accuracy  of  rate  is  desired,  such  as  in  national  standards 
laboratories  and  in  astronomical  observatories,  it  should  be  possible  to 
provide  suitable  mountings  for  crystal  resonators  having  more  delicate 
supports  than  those  required  in  mobile  equipment.  The  GT  crystal  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  21  is  mounted  on  eight  supporting  wires  for  applications 
requiring  great  mechanical  stability,  and  at  the  same  time  remains  one  of  the 
most  stable  frequency  controlling  resonators  t\^r  produced.  It  would  be 
reasonable  to  expect  a  Httle  improvement  in  frequency  stability  at  the 
expense  of  some  mechanical  stability  if  four  supports  were  used  instead  of 
eight. 

There  is  a  good  possibility  also  that  some  improvement  could  be  obtained 
by  reducing  the  electrical  coupling  to  the  crystal.  At  present,  the  plates 
are  usually  provided  with  plated  metal  electrodes  which  cover  the  entire 
large  surface  areas.  Some  increased  stability  in  frequency  might  be  expected 
by  the  use  of  relatively  smaller  electrodes  covering  only  the  central  part  of 
the  resonator  where  the  amplitude  of  vibration  is  small.  At  least  two 
advantages  might  be  expected  from  such  a  modification.  One  is  that  the 
loading  effect  is  least  near  the  node  for  vibration,  another  is  that  any  loose- 
ness of  material,  or  elastic  hysteresis,  would  be  least  troublesome  where  the 
motion  is  least.  Of  course,  it  is  chiefly  the  variations  in  such  effects  that 
concern  us.  One  would  expect,  however,  that  if  such  effects  exist  at  all  they 
might  be  minimized  by  the  use  of  smaller  electrodes. 

These  particular  effects  may  be  eliminated  completely,  of  course,  by  the 
use  of  isolated  electrodes  spaced  from  the  crystal — but  at  the  expense  of 
other  possible  variations  related  to  changes  in  electrode  spacing.     There  is 


574  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

considerable  promise  in  such  means,  the  end  result  depending  upon  how 
precisely  the  resonator  may  be  held  in  a  fixed  position  by  means  that  will 
not  change  its  resonance  characteristics.  Such  means  have,  in  fact,  been 
used  successfully  in  a  number  of  German  quartz  clocks  such  as  at  the 
Physikalisch-Technische  Reichsanstalt^"^,  and  with  the  Dye  ring  resonator 
developed  by  D.  W.  Dye  and  L.  Essen  at  the  National  Physical  Labora- 
tory i^s .  126^  England. 

For  any  given  resonator  and  circuit  a  careful  study  would  probably  reveal 
an  optimum  amplitude  of  oscillation  that  would  yield  a  maximum  stability 
against  residual  uncontrollable  variables.  With  the  GT  crystal,  as  used 
currently,  the  maximum  amplitude  of  motion  is  about  0.00006  mm.  It 
would  be  possible  to  limit  the  motion  to  a  tenth  or  a  hundredth  of  this  value 
if  it  should  be  found  desirable. 

Further  studies  of  the  factors  contributing  to  aging  of  the  quartz  material 
also  should  produce  valuable  improvements.  Since  resonators,  which  ap- 
pear to  be  alike  in  all  other  respects,  often  age  at  greatly  different  rates,  some 
being  very  small  or  substantially  zero,  it  would  seem  that  some  reason  should 
be  discoverable  for  such  variations  and  some  effective  control  established. 

There  are  other  relatively  massive  shapes  that  should  be  investigated 
further  such  as  the  ring  crystal,  mentioned  earlier  in  this  paper,  and  as 
developed  and  studied  by  Dye  and  Essen^^^ '  ^^^.  The  ring  may  be  excited 
in  various  modes  of  vibration  some  of  which  are  more  favorable  than  others 
from  the  standpoint  of  mounting.  By  choice  of  orientation  relative  to  the 
crystal  axes,  and  of  dimensions,  certain  of  these  can  be  designed  to  have  zero 
temperature  coefficients  in  a  restricted  temperature  region. 

Another  shape  that  holds  great  promise  because  of  its  convenience  of 
mounting,  along  with  the  other  desirable  properties,  is  the  rectangular  rod 
vibrating  longitudinally  in  its  second  or  higher  overtone  such  as  first  de- 
scribed by  Scheibe  and  Adelsberger^°^.  Still  another  possible  massive 
shape  is  a  much  thicker  version  of  the  GT  crystal  which  would  combine  the 
very  favorable  temperature-frequency  characteristic  with  that  of  reducing 
the  ratio  of  surface  area  to  volume. 

In  seeking  the  highest  possible  accuracy  a  precise  temperature  control  is 
essential  in  all  cases,  even  with  the  GT  type  of  resonator  with  its  wide  region 
of  low- temperature  coefficient.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  the  frequency  of 
oscillation  depends  not  only  on  the  mean  temperature  of  the  resonator  but 
also  upon  the  temperature  gradient  throughout  its  volume.  Thus,  even  if  a 
resonator  has  the  same  frequency  exactly  at  different  mean  temperatures, 
its  frequency  will  vary  a  little  while  the  temperature  is  varying  from  one 
value  to  another.  The  effect  of  this  can  be  reduced  by  enclosing  the  crystal 
unit  in  an  envelope  with  thermal  lagging  so  that  such  variations  as  do  exist 
at  the  temperature  control  layer  are  prevented  from  reaching  the  crystal. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  575 

This  is  no  longer  a  serious  problem  for  there  are  various  electronic  means 
such  as  described  by  C.  F.  Booth  and  E.  J.  C.  Dixon^^^  for  continuous  tem- 
perature control,  by  means  of  which  the  variations  may  be  kept  very  small, 
and  very  effective  thermal  lagging  methods^^s  g^j-g  ^^^  known. 

The  bridge  method  for  temperature  control  has  been  applied  in  many 
forms.  One  of  the  simplest  and  most  effective  procedures  has  been  to 
utilize  a  bridge-stabilized  oscillator  of  the  type  developed  by  L.  A.  Meacham 
ioT  frequency  control,  and  to  use  it  instead  for  temperature  control.  For  this 
purpose,  all  four  arms  of  the  bridge  are  noninductive  resistances  wound  as 
heaters  on  the  oven  to  be  controlled.  In  the  feedback  circuit  of  the  oscillator, 
a  rough  frequency  control  is  included  simply  for  the  purpose  of  setting  up  an 
oscillation  in  the  circuit  which  includes  the  bridge.  The  conjugate  pairs  of 
bridge  arms  are  made  of  resistance  wire  with  different  temperature  coefficients 
and  so  proportioned  that  the  bridge  balances  at  the  desired  temperature. 
The  amplitude  at  which  this  bridge  oscillator  oscillates  depends  upon  the 
temperature  departure  from  the  balance  value.  Since  the  alternating  cur- 
rent output  of  the  oscillator  flows  in  the  bridge  arms,  the  amount  of  heating 
is  proportional  to  the  temperature  error,  and  hence  the  control  is  automatic. 

Continuity  of  Operation 

An  astronomical  clock,  in  addition  to  having  as  nearly  constant  a  rate  as 
can  be  attained,  should  also  be  able  to  operate  over  long  periods  of  time  with- 
out change  or  interruption.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  many  of  the  phe- 
nomena that  are  of  interest  in  time  measurement  occur  in  continuous  succes- 
sion and  the  greatest  amount  of  information  can  be  obtained  only  by  the  use 
of  clocks  with  which  measurements  can  be  ma^e  in  unbroken  sequence. 
Quartz  clocks  that  have  been  used  for  astronomical  purposes  to  date  have 
not  had  a  very  commendable  record  in  this  respect  and  already  a  good  deal 
has  been  said  in  the  clock  literature  about  this  aspect — as  though  it  were  an 
inherent  property  of  the  quartz  clock. 

However,  it  is  only  a  matter  of  simple  engineering,  making  use  of  tech- 
niques and  apparatus  already  well  known  and  available,  to  design  a  quartz 
clock  which  should  operate  continuously  for  many  years.  A  chain  is  only 
as  strong  as  its  weakest  link — and  the  clock  comprises  a  chain  of  apparatus 
parts  every  link  of  which  must  function  perfectly  and  continuously.  This 
chain  consists  of  (1)  the  crystal-controlled  oscillator,  (2)  a  frequency  de- 
multiplier  to  obtain  a  low  frequency  to  operate  a  motor,  (3)  a  power  amplifier 
to  obtain  sufficient  current  to  drive  the  motor  and  (4)  the  motor  itself,  associ- 
ated with  any  of  a  wide  assortment  of  time  signal-producing  or  measuring 
equipment.  In  addition  to  the  links  in  this  chain,  a  power  supply  must  be 
maintained,  and  the  temperature  of  the  crystal  must  be  controlled,  both 
continuously. 


576  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  crystal  itself  is  no  problem  as  far  as  continuity  of  operation  is  con- 
cerned. Its  motion  is  so  very  small  there  is  no  likelihood  at  all  of  failure  on 
that  account.  Mountings  are  very  stable  and  in  all  likelihood  will  be 
improved.  The  oscillator  circuit,  the  frequency  demultiplier,  the  power 
amplifier  and  the  temperature-control  circuit  are  all  vacuum-tube  devices 
and  deserve  special  consideration.  In  all  of  these  circuits,  vacuum  tubes 
have  been  used  in  some  installations  which  do  not  have  a  very  long  life, 
some  even  becoming  defective  within  a  year  of  operation.  On  the  other 
hand,  there  are  tubes  which  have  been  developed  for  use  in  continuous 
telephone  circuits  where  failures  would  be  troublesome  and  costly.  Some  of 
these  tubes  in  current  production  have  an  expected  life  of  more  than  ten 
years.  There  is  good  reason  to  believe  that  a  quartz  clock  installation 
equipped  with  such  vacuum  tubes  throughout,  and  engineered  so  as  to  make 
effective  use  of  their  special  properties,  would  operate  continuously  for  ten 
years  or  more. 

The  remaining  'link"  in  the  chain  is  the  synchronous  mechanism  operated 
from  the  crystal-controlled  circuits  and  used  for  totalizing  continuously  the 
oscillations  of  the  crystal  and  for  producing  suitable  time  signals  at  specified 
intervals  of  time  thus  measured  off  in  terms  of  the  crystal  rate.  This 
mechanism  usually  consists  of  a  small  synchronous  (phonic  wheel)  motor 
operated  from  a  submultiple  of  the  crystal  frequency  and  geared  to  com- 
mutators or  cams  or  other  means  for  producing  the  electrical  signals  used 
in  making  time  measurements.  Many  of  the  troubles  in  quartz  clock  in- 
stallations have  occurred  in  this  'link'.  There  is  every  reason  to  believe, 
however,  that  suitable  synchronous  motors  geared  to  cam-controlled  elec- 
trical contacts  can  be  built  that  will  operate  continuously  through  many 
years.  To  insure  long  operation  it  would  be  desirable  to  employ  motors 
with  low  rotation  speed  in  order  to  reduce  bearing  wear.  With  the  present 
knowledge  of  bearing  materials  and  lubricants,  it  should  be  a  simple  matter 
to  design  such  a  motor  that  would  operate  without  failure  for  ten  years  or 
more. 

A  relatively  trouble-free  electrical  time  signal  producer,  suitable  for 
operating  under  the  control  of  a  quartz  oscillator,  with  frequency  demulti- 
pliers  to  100  cycles,  could  be  constructed  as  indicated  schematically  in  Fig. 
34.  This  is  not  intended  to  be  an  actual  design,  but  is  intended  to  indicate 
how  an  apparatus  could  be  designed  that  would  circumvent  some  of  the 
troubles  now  experienced  which  prevent  long  continuous  operation. 

The  basic  apparatus  consists  of  a  crystal  oscillator,  presumably  100,000 
cycles,  with  a  frequency  divider  to  obtain  controlled  100-cycle  current  to 
drive  the  100-pole  phonic  wheel  motor  at  one  revolution  per  second.  Ob- 
viously, other  crystal  frequencies  and  step-down  ratios  could  be  used,  the 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK 


577 


important  thing  being  to  obtain  a  rotation  speed  of  1  rps.  This  is  a  very 
low  speed  for  a  phonic  wheel  motor  but  has  the  obvious  advantage  of  great 
simplicity  since  it  permits  of  controlling  seconds  devices  without  the  use  of 
gearing.  Only  one  shaft  is  involved  and  the  bearing  problem  is  reduced 
to  the  simplest  possible  terms.  A  hardened  steel  cam,  integrally  mounted 
with  the  phonic  wheel  rotor,  is  used  to  operate  a  single  electrical  contact,  so 
connected  into  the  circuits  controlled  by  it  that  the  instant  oj  break  is  the  sole 
time-determining  operation.  A  break  signal  is  preferable  to  a  make  signal 
chiefly  because  it  is  easier  to  avoid  irregular  effects,  such  as  result  from 
contact  chatter,  when  a  circuit  is  being  opened  than  when  it  is  being  closed. 
If  a  pallet  of  sapphire  or  ruby  is  used  for  the  mechanical  contact  on  the  cam^ 


EED  Back     t^^      (ido  poles) 


PICK-UP 
STATOR 


^0 


K       TIME    *■ 


Fig.  34 — Suggestion  of  elements  for  a  quartz  clock  for  long  time  continuous  operation. 


and  if  small  currents  are  used  through  the  contacts,  made  preferably  of 
platinum-iridium  or  similar  alloy,  it  would  be  reasonable  to  expect  trouble- 
free  performance  through  several  hundred  milHon  operations. 

Ordinarily,  the  "hunting"  of  a  phonic  wheel  motor  operating  on  a  fre- 
quency as  low  as  100  cycles  would  cause  time  errors  too  large  to  neglect  in  a 
device  such  as  just  described.  However,  by  the  use  of  feedback  in  the 
motor  amplifier  circuit,  such  as  indicated  schematically  in  Fig.  34,  the 
effective  hunting  can  be  reduced  to  the  point  where  the  time  errors  caused 
by  it  would  become  negligible  for  most  purposes. 

Various  circuits  could  be  suggested  for  making  use  of  the  break  signal  for 
timing  purposes,  the  one  shown  in  Fig.  34  being  typical  and  suitable  for 
various  methods  of  precise  measurement  and  control.  It  is  capable  of 
providing  an  electrical  impulse  with  a  steep  wave  front  and  of  adjustable 
duration.     The  grid  of  the  vacuum  tube  is  normally  biased  to  cutoff  by  the 


578  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

negative  voltage,       ^   ^  .    While  the  contact  is  closed,  the  battery  E^,  with 

resistance  R^  in  series,  is  short-circuited.  But  at  the  instant  of  opening  the 
contact,  current  flows  momentarily  in  the  circuit  including  E2,  Rz,  C  and  R2, 
By  making  £2  positive,  and  equal  to  or  larger  than  Ei  numerically,  the  plate 
circuit  of  the  tube  becomes  conducting  for  a  short  interval,  the  duration  of 
which  is  determined  by  the  time-constant  of  the  condenser  circuit,  each  time 
the  contact  is  opened.  At  all  other  times,  the  plate  cil-cuit  is  nonconducting. 
The  sharply  defined  electrical  signal  thus  produced  in  the  plate  circuit  can 
be  used  by  well-known  means  for  direct  time  comparison  with  signals  from 
other  sources. 

Making  use  of  the  duration  of  the  impulse  thus  produced,  it  is  possible  to 
use  it  as  a  selecting  means  to  isolate  a  single  more  precise  signal  from  a 
continuous  chain.  For  example,  the  100-cycle  wave  controlled  by  the 
crystal  can  be  modified  by  a  simple  vacuum  tube  circuit  to  consist  of  a  con- 
tinuous sequence  of  very  sharply  defined  impulses.  By  using  the  pulse 
circuit  just  described  as  a  bias  control  on  an  amplifier,  it  would  be  readily 
possible  to  select  one  out  of  every  hundred  of  these  impulses  and  thus  provide 
an  extremely  precise  seconds  signal,  the  accuracy  of  which  is  determined 
wholly  by  electronic  means. 

It  would  be  readily  possible  to  vary  the  time  relation  of  the  seconds  signal 
while  in  operation,  by  the  use  of  electrical  phase  shifters  in  the  driving 
circuits,  or  by  rotating  the  stator  of  the  phonic  wheel  motor,  but  for  long 
continuous  operation  it  would  be  desirable  to  keep  the  number  of  apparatus 
parts  comprising  the  clock  at  a  minimum. 

It  is  not  necessary,  of  course,  to  employ  a  complete  frequency  divider  and 
phonic  wheel  apparatus  for  each  quartz  crystal  oscillator.  As  mentioned 
previously,  the  relative  time  rates  of  quartz  oscillators  can  be  measured  with 
very  high  precision  and  be  very  simple  means  through  a  direct  comparison  of 
the  high  frequencies. 

Other  Means  for  Precise  Rate  Control 

In  addition  to  making  improvements  on  the  quartz  crystal  resonator,  and 
on  methods  for  sustaining  it  in  vibration,  there  are  two  other  avenues  of  in- 
vestigation which  may  yield  comparable  results,  with  possibly  some  addi- 
tional advantages.  Not  much  can  be  said  about  them  at  this  time  except  to 
point  out  their  possibilities  because  no  appreciable  work  has  been  done  so 
far  to  explore  their  merits  as  timekeepers. 

The  first  is  in  the  field  of  very  low  temperatures  where  some  quite  re- 
markable properties  are  obtained.  Chief  of  these  for  our  purpose  is  the 
supraconductivity  of  some  metals,  and  the  constancy  of  shape  of  most 
materials,  at  temperatures  in  the  neighborhood  of  absolute  zero.     It  seems 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  579 

reasonable  to  suppose  that  an  electrically-resonant  circuit  maintained  at  a 
temperature  in  this  region  could  be  made  to  have  a  very  high  Q,  and  very 
stable  dimensions,  and  so  have  the  chief  desirable  properties  for  rate  control 
that  obtain  in  a  quartz  resonator.  Resonant  cavities  used  at  high  fre- 
quencies have  many  of  the  properties  of  other  electrical  resonant  circuits, 
and  in  particular  their  energy  dissipation  for  electric  oscillations  can  be  very 
substantially  reduced  when  cooled  to  superconducting  temperatures.  In 
some  experiments  made  recently  at  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology^^Q 
it  has  been  shown  that  a  cavity  resonator  made  of  lead,  which  for  3-cm. 
waves  has  a  Q  of  about  2,000  at  room  temperatures,  is  so  much  improved  at  a 
temperature  of  4  degrees  absolute  that  the  Q  approaches  a  million.  Such  a 
resonator  could  be  used  as  the  stabilizing  element  in  an  oscillator  and  hence 
in  a  clock.  The  relative  stability  over  long  periods  could,  of  course,  be 
determined  only  by  experiment. 

Maintenance  of  the  required  low  temperature  would  add  considerably  to 
the  complexity  of  such  a  system,  but  if  the  advantages  were  such  as  to  pro- 
duce a  new  order  of  stability,  and  particularly  if  it  should  make  possible  a 
clock  system  with  small  or  zero  aging,  it  certainly  should  be  justified  for 
future  time  measurement  studies. 

The  other  avenue  of  approach  is  through  the  application  of  certain 
resonance  phenomena  in  atoms  and  molecules  that  do  not  depend  upon 
aggregates  of  matter  as  is  the  case  with  all  mechanical  systems  used  hereto- 
fore in  time  measuring  means.  The  extreme  fineness  of  structure  and  the 
constancy  of  atomic  and  molecular  resonance  phenomena  have  long  been 
recognized  through  studies  of  line  spectra,  and  in  the  field  of  spectroscopy 
these  properties  have  been  used  as  standards  of  wavelength  ever  since  the 
early  studies  of  Joseph  von  Fraunhofer,  reported  in  1815.^^°     Wavelength,  X, 

and  frequency,/,  are  associated  by  the  simple  relation/  =  —  where  c  is  equal 

A 

to  the  velocity  of  light.  For  visible  radiations  /  turns  out  to  be  extremely 
large,  for  the  red  Hght,  6500A,  it  is  462  million  million  vibrations  per  second. 
So  far,  such  high  frequencies  have  not  been  observable  or  measurable  di- 
rectly but  can  only  be  deduced  from  wavelength  measurements  as  just 
stated — which  inevitably  involve  the  use  of  man-made  standards  of 
length  and  the  combined  errors  of  two  quite  different  sorts  of  physical 
measurements. 

It  has  long  been  the  dream  of  physicists  to  find  some  way  to  tie  in  directly 
with  the  natural  frequencies  of  atoms  and  molecules  and  to  derive  from  them 
a  direct  measure  of  rate,  and,  of  course,  of  time  interval.  It  has  been 
thought,  for  example,  that  the  red  radiation  from  cadmium  vapor,  whose 
wavelength  was  measured  by  C.  Fabry  and  A.  Perot  in  terms  of  the  standard 
meter  as  accurately  as  that  standard  could  be  defined,  would  also  make  a 


580  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

good  standard  for  time  measurements.  A  step  in  the  right  direction  was 
made  later  by  A.  A.  Michelson  whose  precise  determination  of  the  wave- 
length of  this  radiation  made  possible  the  redefinition  of  the  International 
Meter  as  a  defipite  number  of  such  wavelengths,  measured  in  vacuo.  From 
this  definition,  it  is  now  possible  to  duplicate  the  primary  standard  of 
length  with  great  accuracy,  and  to  check  such  secular  changes  as  may  occur 
in  the  original  standard,  the  distance  between  two  marks  on  a  metal  bar. 
The  constancy  of  the  standard,  as  defined  by  Michelson,  depends  upon 
properties  of  primary  particles  of  matter,  and  upon  properties  of  space, 
which,  as  far  as  human  beings  are  concerned  directly,  appear  to  be  quite 
independent  of  time  or  location.  A  similar  definition  of  rate,  or  time  inter- 
val, is  very  desirable. 

A  ray  of  hope  came  out  of  the  important  work  of  Nichols  and  Tear^^^  who 
proved  that  electric  waves  which  could  be  produced  electrically  were  of  the 
same  stuff  as  radiation  from  hot  bodies.  They  were  able  to  detect  radiation 
of  either  sort  by  the  same  receiving  device  and  showed  that  they  both  had 
the  same  properties  of  refraction,  polarization,  etc.  Later,  Cleeton  and 
Williams^'2  were  able  to  produce  continuous  electric  waves  at  very  high 
frequencies — corresponding  to  about  1  cm.  wavelength — and  to  show  that 
they  also  had  the  important  properties  of  light  waves.  Now  the  range  has 
been  extended  somewhat  more  and  there  are  reports^^^  of  experimental 
generators  that  can  produce  continuous  waves  of  a  few  millimeters  wave- 
length. This  is  an  active  development  and,  of  course,  the  end  is  not  in 
sight.  From  continuous  waves  of  any  frequency  it  is  believed  possible  by 
general  techniques  now  well  known  to  control  lower  frequencies,  and  from 
them  eventually  all  sorts  of  time  measuring  and  indicating  devices  as  pre- 
viously described. 

Within  the  last  few  years,  the  missing  link  has  been  discovered  which,  with 
Suitable  instrumentation,  may  make  it  possible  to  construct  a  clock  con- 
trolled by  atomic-  or  molecular-resonance  phenomena.  There  are  a  great 
number  of  resonance  phenomena  associated  with  the  molecules  in  a  gas,  or  in 
molecular  beams,  which  are  responsive  to  electric  waves  that  can  be  pro- 
duced continuously  by  modern  vacuum  tube  means.  In  some  cases,  the 
sharpness  of  resonance  is  such  that  changes  of  frequency  of  one  part  in  10*^  or 
less  can  be  detected,  leading  to  the  idea  that  such  resonance  phenomena  may 
be  utilized  in  some  way  to  control  the  frequency  of  a  suitable  oscillator  and 
hence,  through  frequency  conversion  circuits,  to  control  frequencies  low 
enough  to  operate  clocks  and  other  mechanisms.  Some  of  the  resonance 
phenomena  in  point  are  in  the  one-centimeter  region,  a  field  that  is  rapidly 
being  exploited  in  radar  and  communication  applications.  It  is  to  be 
expected,  therefore,  that  techniques  for  dealing  with  such  high  frequencies 
will  be  developed  in  the  near  future  thus  facilitating  a  study  of  this  new 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  581 

approach  to  timekeeping.  The  idea  of  utiHzing  such  resonance  phenomena 
for  the  measurement  of  time  was  suggested  in  January,  1945  by  Professor 
1. 1.  Rabi  of  Columbia  University  at  an  address  before  the  American  Physical 
Society  and  the  American  Association  of  Physics  Teachers. 

These  resonance  phenomena,  involving  the  interaction  of  microwave 
electromagnetic  radiation  with  atoms  or  molecules  of  matter,  have  been  dis- 
covered only  quite  recently  and  it  is  likely  that  a  great  deal  more  will  be 
learned  about  them  in  the  next  few  years.  The  results  already  obtained  are 
very  promising  and  investigations  already  under  way  may  well  lead  to  the 
means  for  creating  an  entirely  new  type  of  standard  of  time  interval  and 
rate — both  of  prime  importance  in  Physics. 

The  studies  of  greatest  significance  for  such  purposes  now  in  progress  fall 
in  two  main  branches  involving  quite  different  techniques.  The  actual 
means  for  regulating  a  clock  would  be  quite  different  in  the  two  methods, 
but  would  be  possible  in  either.  With  what  is  known  up  to  the  present  time, 
however,  the  construction  of  such  a  clock  would  be  a  considerable  under- 
taking, especially  to  make  one  that  would  operate  over  long  periods.  The 
two  chief  phenomena  involving  atomic  or  molecular  resonances  are:  (1)  the 
absorption  of  high-frequency  energy  in  certain  materials,  particularly  in 
gases,  exhibiting  ultra-fine  absorption  spectra;  and  (2)  the  defiection  of 
beams  of  atoms  or  molecules  under  special  conditions  of  magnetic  and 
electric  fields.  The  earliest  reported  work  on  the  absorption  of  microwaves 
in  gases  was  done  by  C.  E.  Cleeton  and  N.  H.  Williams^^  in  1934.  With 
the  development  of  improved  high-frequency  generators  and  measuring 
techniques  the  work  has  been  extended  considerably  during  the  last  few 
years  by  C.  H.  Townes^^,  W.  E.  Good^^^  and  others.  It  is  believed  that 
with  modifications  of  methods,  such  as  used  by  them,  it  would  be  possible  to 
control  the  frequency  of  the  short-wave  generators  such  as  used  in  making 
these  studies;  and,  if  this  can  be  done,  the  adaptation  for  use  in  time-measur- 
ing devices  would  follow  naturally  as  in  the  case  of  any  other  stable 
oscillator. 

The  general  method  using  molecular  beams  has  been  a  gradual  develop- 
ment over  some  years,  but  the  first  published  suggestion  of  the  applications 
which  relates  closely  to  this  work  was  made  in  1938  when  I.  I.  Rabi,  J.  R. 
Zacharias,  S.  Millman  and  P.  Kusch  first  used  the  beam  deflection  method  for 
measuring  nuclear  magnetic  moments.^^^  Two  articles^^** •  ^^^  in  Revieus  of 
Modern  Physics  in  July  1946  give  a  good  description  of  the  molecular  beam 
method  and  the  results  of  some  studies  of  fine  structure  resonance  phe- 
nomena. The  resonance  curve  shown  in  Fig.  35  obtained  recently  by  P. 
Kusch  and  H.  Taub  of  Columbia  University,  and  hitherto  unpublished, 
illustrates  the  resolution  obtainable  by  molecular  beam  methods.  According 
to  theory,  the  actual  width  of  the  resonance  should  be  substantially  inde- 


582 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


pendent  of  the  applied  frequency  and  they  expect  to  be  able,  when  employing 
frequencies  corresponding  to  centimeter  waves,  to  obtain  a  hundred  or  more 
times  this  resolution.  If  this  should  be  realized,  it  suggests  the  possibility  of 
a  clock  with  an  accuracy  of  better  than  one  part  in  10^. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  advantage  that  might  be  expected  from  such  a 
method  lies  in  the  possible  long-time  stability  or  freedom  from  aging. 
Every  existing  means  for  timekeeping  involves  in  some  manner  the  motion  of 
large  aggregates  of  matter  which,  when  they  rearrange  themselves  in  anyway, 
vary  their  rates  of  rotation,  or  of  oscillation,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  ways 


20 


5 
O 

< 

I    '0 


ID 

o 

z 

o 


A 

f=  111,651  KC+Af 

A 

/ 

HALFWIDTH 
'""  2.4  KC 

' 

*-*-\ 

1 

V 

I 

8  10  12  14  16  18  20 

Af  IN    KILOCYCLES     PER  SECOND 

Fig.  35 — Typical  resonance  curve  for  a  line  in  the  radio  frequency  spectrum  of  atomic 
K^'  observed  by  the  method  of  molecular  beams.  Experimental  data  supplied  by  P. 
Kusch  and  H.  Taub,  Columbia  University  Physics  Department. 


that  are  not  wholly  predictable.  It  may  well  develop  that  a  method  based 
on  the  behavior  of  single  particles  of  matter  will  be  ageless  and,  with  proper 
instrumentation,  that  it  will  permit  of  setting  up  an  absolute  standard  of  rate 
and  time  interval.  The  actual  value  of  this  rate  would  be  indeterminate  by 
a  small  amount  depending  on  the  sharpness  of  resonance  and  the  precision  of 
control  that  could  be  effected  from  it,  in  addition  to  any  uncontrollable 
effects  of  the  actual  resonance  frequencies  such  as  result  from  temperature, 
pressure,  and  electromagnetic  and  gravitational  force  fields.  In  the  case  of 
some  of  the  resonance  phenomena  all  the  latter  effects  are  believed  to  be 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  583 

vanishingly  small.  In  any  case,  one  would  not  expect  to  experience  a  pro- 
gressive change  in  rate  as  in  the  case  of  the  rotation  of  the  earth  which  now 
is  the  measure  and  definition  of  astronomical  time.  On  the  average  the 
earth  is  said  to  be  slowing  down  at  the  rate  of  a  thousandth  of  a  second  per 
day  per  century^'*^  and,  according  to  the  astronomers^^,  the  day  will  continue 
to  lengthen  until  finally,  at  some  time  in  the  distant  future,  the  earth  will 
always  face  one  side  toward  the  moon  and  the  length  of  the  day  will  become 
about  47  times  as  long  as  it  is  at  the  present  time. 

Meanwhile,  if  an  absolute  standard  could  be  established,  such  as  now 
appears  feasible  through  atomic-  or  molecular-resonance  phenomena,  it 
would  be  possible  to  record  these  changes  through  the  centuries  and  to 
estabhsh  a  relatively  stable  "second"  that  could  be  used  for  all  time  in 
physical  measurements  in  place  of  the  elastic  second  of  the  cgs  system  which, 
as  now  defined,  must  stretch  with  the  inevitable  variations  in  the  mean 
solar  day. 

Whether  or  not  such  an  "absolute"  clock  becomes  a  reality  at  some  time 
in  the  future,  the  quartz  crystal  clock,  because  of  its  accuracy,  compactness, 
great  convenience  and  versatility  is  likely  to  continue  to  be  a  most  useful 
instrument  in  all  precision  measurements  of  time. 

References 

1.  The  Beginnings  of  Time-Measurement  and  the  Origins  of  Our  Calendar.      James 

Arthur  Foundation  Lecture),  James  Henry  Breasted.  Published  in  Book,  Time 
And  Its  Mysteries,  1936.     New  York  University  Press. 

2.  Encyclopedia  Britannica — 14th  Ed. — "Christian  Huygens". 

3.  Horologium  Oscillatorium,  Christian  Huygens,  1673. 

4.  Electrical  Timekeeping,  F.  Hope- Jones,  N.  A.  G.  Press,  London,  1940. 

5.  Improvements  in  the  Application  of  Moving  Power  to  Clocks  and  Timepieces,  John 

Barwise  and  Alexander  Bain,  British  Patent  No.  8783,  Filed  Jan.  11,  1841,  Issued 
July  10,  1841. 

6.  The  first  electric  clock,  W.  A.  Marrison,  Proceedings  of  the  Engineering  Society, 

Queens  University,  Kingston,  Canada,  v.  29,  pp.  15-20,  1940. 

7.  Electric  Clocks,  F.  Hope- Jones— Book,  N.  A.  G.  Press,  London,  1931. 

8.  Memoire  sur  I'etude  optique  des  mouvements  vibratoires,  Jules  Lissajous,  Comptes 

Rendus,  v.  44,  p.  727,  April  6,  1857. 

9.  On  the  use  of  the  dynamic  multiplier  with  a  new  accompanying  apparatus,  C.  G. 

Page,  American  Journal  of  Science.  1st  Series,  32,  1837,  p.  354,  dated  at  Salem, 
Mass.  April  24,  1837. 

10.  Observations  on  induced  electric  currents  with  a  description  of  a  magnetic  contact 

breaker,  Golding  Bird,  London,  Edinburgh  and  Dublin,  Phil.  Mag.  Series  3,  No. 
12,  1838,  p.  18.     Addressed  from  Wilmington  Square,  Nov.  2,  1837. 

11.  On  a  new  magnetic  electric  machine.  Annals  of  Electricity,  Magnetism  and  Chemistry 

and  Guardian  of  Experimental  Science,  vol.  Ill,  pp.  66-70,  1839.  Translation 
from  German.  Describes  apparatus  of  Dr.  Neeff  of  Frankfurt  exhibited  at 
Friburg  meeting  of  Philosophers,  September,  1838. 

12.  Science  of  Musical  Sounds,   Dayton  Clarence  Miller.     Book,  Macmillan,  N.  Y. 

1916.     p.  29. 

13.  Quelques  Experiences  d'  Acoustique,  Rudolph  Konig,  Paris,  1882.     p.  172. 

14.  On  the  characteristics  of  electrically  operated  tuning  forks,  H.   M.   Dadourian, 

Physical  Review,  v.  13,  pp.  337-359,  May,  1919. 

15.  Isochronous  and  Synchronous  Movements  for  Telegraph  and  Other  Lines.     Patent 

No.  203423,  Poul  la  Cour.     Filed  April  9,  1878. 


584  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

15a.  Roue  phonique  pour  la  regularisation  du  synchronisme  des  mouvements.     Note  by 
P.  la  Cour  in  Comptes  Rendus,  v.  87,  pp.  499-500,  September  25,  1878. 

16.  Report  of  Physical  Society  Meeting  of  March  30,  1878.     Refers  to  Lord  Rayleigh's 

impulse  motor.     Nature,  May  23,  1878,  p.  111. 

17.  Nouveaux  modes  d'entretien  des  diapasons,  A.  and  V.  Guillet.     Comptes  Rendus, 

V.  130,  pp.  1002-1004,  April  9,  1900. 

18.  The  Emission  of  Electricity  from  Hot  Bodies,  O.  W.  Richardson.     Book.     Longman, 

Green  and  Co.,  London,  1916. 

19.  On  electric  discharge  between  electrodes  at  different  temperature  in  air  and  high 

vacuo,  J.  A.  Fleming,  Royal  Society  of  London  Proc,  v.  47,  p.  122,  1890. 

20.  The  Audion — A  New  Receiver  for  Wireless  Telegraphy,  Lee  De  Forest,  A.  I.E.  E. 

Transactions,  v.  25,  pp.  735-779,  1906.     Electrician,  v.  58,  pp.  216-218,  1906. 

21.  Improvements  in  instruments  for  detecting  and  measuring  alternating  currents, 

J.  A.  Fleming.    British  Patent  No.  24850,  1904. 

22.  Device  for  amplifying  feeble  electrical  currents,  Lee  De  Forest.     U.  S.  Patent  No. 

841387,  issued  January,  1907. 

23.  Einrichtung  zur  Erzeugung  elektrischer  Schwingungen,  Siegmund  Strauss.     Austrian 

Patent  No.  71340,  filed  Dec.  1912,  issued  June,  1915. 

24.  Improvements  in  receivers  for  use  in  wireless  telegraphy  and  telephony,  Marconi 

Wireless  Telegraph  Company,  Ltd.  and  Charles  Samuel  Franklin.  British  Patent 
No.  13636,  filed  June,  1913,  accepted  June,  1914. 

25.  Wireless  Telegraph  and  Telephone   System,  Lee   De   Forest.     U.  S.  Patent  No. 

1.507.016,  filed  September,  1915,  issued  September,  1924,  and  U.  S.  Patent  No. 

1.507.017,  filed  March,  1914,  issued  September,  1924. 

26.  The  use  of  the  triode  valve  in  maintaining  the  vibration  of  a  tuning  fork.     W.  H. 

Eccles,  Phys.  Soc.  of  London  Proc,  v.  31,  p.  269,  1919. 

27.  Sustaining  the  vibration  of  a  tuning  fork  by  a  triode  valve,  W.  H.  Eccles  and  F.  W. 

Jordan,  The  Electrician,  v.  82,  p.  704,  June  20,  1919. 

28.  Sur  L'entretien  des  oscillations  mechaniques  au  moyen  des  lampes  a  trois  electrodes, 

Henri  Abraham  and  Eugene  Block,  Comptes  Rendus,  v.  168,  pp.  1197-1198,  June 
16,  1919. 

29.  Electron  tube  drive  for  tuning  fork,  E.  A.  Eckhardt,  J.  C.  Karcher,  and  M.  Keiser, 

Physical  Review,  v.  17,  pp.  535-536,  April,  1921. 

30.  An  electron  tube  tuning  fork  drive,  E.  A.  Eckhardt,  J.  C.  Karcher  and  M.  Keiser, 

/.0.5.^.-No.  6,  pp.  949-957,  November,  1922. 

31.  The  valve  maintained  tuning  fork  as  a  precision  time  standard,  D.  W.  Dye,  Royal 

Soc.  of  London  Proc,  v.  103,  pp.  240-260,  May,  1923. 

32.  Frequency  measurements  in  electrical  communication,  J.  W.  Horton,  N.  H.  Ricker, 

W.  A.  Marrison,  A.  I.  E.  E.  Trans.,  v.  42,  pp.  730-741,  June,  1923. 

33.  A  celestial  encounter,  Ernest  William  Brown,  Jl.  Franklin  Institute,  v.  202,  pp.  127- 

163,  August,  1926. 

34.  The  best  observed  eclipse  in  history.  Scientific  American,  March,  1925,  p.  155. 

35.  Precision  determination  of  frequency,  J.  W.  Horton  and  W.  A.  Marrison,  /.  R.  E. 

Proc,  V.  16,  pp.  137-154,  February,  1928. 

36.  The  valve  maintained  tuning  fork  as  a  primary  standard  of  frequency,  D.  W.  Dye 

and  L.  Essen,  Royal  Society  of  London  Proc,  v.  143,  pp.  285-306,  1934. 

37.  The  anomaly  of  nickel  steels,  Charles  Edouard  Guillaume,  Physical  Soc.  of  London 

Proc,  V.  32,  p.  374,  April,  1928. 

38.  La  compensation  des  horloges  et  des  montres;  precedes  nouveaux  fondes  sur  I'emploi 

des  aciers  au  nickel,  Charles  Edouard  Guillaume.  Booklet — Neuchatel  et  Geneve, 
Paris,  1920. 

39.  Dilatibilit6  du  chrome  et  des  alliages  nickel-chrome  dans  un  intervalle  etendu  de 

temperature,  P.  Ch6venard.     Comptes  Rendus,  v.   174,  p.   109,  January,    1922. 

40.  M6sure  de  la  dilation  du  coefficient  thermoelastique  et  propri^tes  61ectriques  des 

alliages  dans  un  grand  intervalle  de  temperature.  R6sultats  de  I'etude  des  ferro- 
nickels  purs  et  additonn^s  le  chrome.  P.  Ch^venard.  Bull.  Soc  Franc.  Phy. 
No.  254,  pp.  135-138,  Dec.  16,  1927. 

41.  Tuning  forks,  H.  H.  Hagland.     U.  S.  Patent  1,715,324,  filed  June,  1925,  issued  May, 

1929. 

42.  A  mechanical  oscillator  of  constant  frequency,  August  Karolous.     U.  S.  Patent 

1,763,853,  filed  Nov.,  1927,  issued  June,  1930. 

43.  Compensated  Tuning  Fork,  Bert  Eisenhour.     U.  S.  Patent  1,880,923,  filed  Sept., 

1930,  issued  Oct.,  1932. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  585 

44.  Tuning  Fork,  S.  E.  Michaels.     U.  S.  Patent  2,247,960,  issued  July  1,  1941. 

45.  A  determination  of  some  of  the  properties  of  the  piezoelectric  quartz  resonator, 

Karl  S.  Van  Dyke,  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  v.  23,  No.  4,  April,  1935. 

46.  The  high  Q  of  quartz  resonators,  Maynard  Waltz  and  K.  S.  Van  Dyke,  //.  of  Acous- 

tical Soc.  of  America,  v.  19,  No.  4,  Part  1,  p.  732,  July,  1947. 

47.  The  crystal  clock,  W.  A.  Marrison,  National  Academy  of  Sciences  Proc,  v.  16,  pp. 

496-507,  July,  1930. 

48.  Development  par  pression,  de  I'electricite  polaire  dans  les  cristaux  hemiedres  a  faces 

inclinees,  Jacques  and  Pierre  Curie,  Comptes  Rendus,  v.  91,  p.  294,  1880. 

49.  D6formations  electrique  du  quarts,  Jacques  and  Pierre  Curie,  Comptes  Rendus,  v. 

95,  pp.  914-197,  1882. 

50.  Oeuvres  de  Pierre  Curie,  Pierre  Curie.     Book — Gauthier-Villars,  Paris,  1908. 

51.  The  electric  network  equivalent  of  a  piezoelectric  resonator,  K.  S.  Van  Dyke,  Phys. 

Rev.,  V.  25,  p.  895,  1925. 

52.  The  piezoelectric  effect  in  the  composite  rochelle  salt  crystal,  A.  McLean  Nicolson, 

A.  I.  E.  E.  Trans.,  v.  38,  Part  2,  pp.  1467-1485,  1919.    A.  I.  E.  E.  Proc,  v.  38, 
pp.  1315-1333,  1919. 

53.  Generating  and   transmitting  electric  currents,   Alexander  M.   Nicolson.     U.  S. 

Patent  No.  2,212,845,  filed  April  10,  1918,  issued  August  27,  1940. 

54.  Bondage  par  le  son,  P.  Langevin.     S.  29,  Pub.  Spec  No.  3,  1924. 

55.  Improvements  relating  to  the  emission  and  reception  of  submarine  waves,  P.  Langevin. 

French  Patent  No.  505,903  issued  in  1918,  also  British  Patent  No.  145,691  issued 
in  1921. 

56.  The  piezoelectric  resonator,  W.  G.  Cady.    /.  R.  E.  Proc,  v.  10,  pp.  83-114,  April, 

1922. 

57.  Piezoelektrische  Resonanzerscheinungen,  A.  Scheibe,  Zeitschrift  fUr  Hochfrequenz- 

technik,  v.  28,  No.  1,  1926. 

58.  Bibliography  on  piezoelectricity,  W.  G.  Cady,  /.  R.  E.  Proc,  v.  16,  pp.  521-535, 

1928. 

59.  Quarzoszillatoren,  R.  Bechmann.     Telefunken  Zeitung,  v.  17,  pp.  36-45,  March, 

1936. 

60.  Piezoelectricity,  W.  G.  Cady.     Book— McGraw-Hill,  New  York,  1946. 

61.  Piezoelectric  crystal  resonators  and  crystal  oscillators  applied   to  the  precision 

calibration  of  wave  meters,  George  W.  Pierce,  Amer.  Acad,  of  Arts  and  Sciences 
Proc,  V.  59,  No.  4,  pp.  81-106,  October,  1923. 

62.  Sur  un  nouvel  emploi  des  quartz  piezo61ectriques,  G.  Siadbei,  Comptes  Rendus,  v. 

188,  p.  1390,  May,  1929. 

63.  Piezoelectric  crystal  oscillators  applied  to  the  precision  measurement  of  the  velocity 

of  sound  in  air  and  carbon  dioxide  at  high  frequencies,  George  W.  Pierce,  Amer. 
Acad,  of  Arts  and  Sciences  Proc,  v.  60,  pp.  271-302,  October,  1925. 

64.  Sichtbarmachung  von  hochfrequenten  longitudinalschwingungen  piezoelektrischen 

Kristallstabe,  E.  Giebe  and  A.  Scheibe,  Ziets  f.  physik  v.  2>^,  pp.  335-344,  1925. 

65.  Leuchtende  piezoelektrische  resonatoren  als  hochfrequenznormale,  E.  Giebe  and  A. 

Scheibe,  E.  T.  Z.,  v.  47,  pp.  380-385,  April,  1926. 

66.  An  international  comparison  of  frequency  by  means  of  a  luminous  quartz  resonator, 

S.  Jimbo,  Proc  I.  R.  E.,  v.  18,  pp.  1930-1934,  1930. 

67.  An  international  comparison  of  radio  wavelength  standards  by  means  of  pie  oelectric 

resonators,  W.  G.  Cady,  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  v.  12,  pp.  805-816,  December,  1924. 

68.  The  status  of  frequency  standardization,  J.  H.  Dellinger.     Proc.  L  R.  E.,  v.  16,  No. 

5,  pp.  579-592,  May,  1928. 

69.  Frequency  control  system,  Warren  A.  Marrison.     U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,788,533,  filed 

March,   1927,  issued  January,   1931. 

70.  Precision  determination  of  frequency,  J.  W.  Horton  and  W.  A.  Marrison,  /.  R.  E. 

Proc,  V.  16,  pp.  137-154,  February,  1928. 

71.  Sur  la  mesure  en  valeur  absolue  des  periodes  des  oscillations  61ectriques  de  haute 

frequence,  Henri  Abraham  et  Eugene  Block,  Comptes  Rendus,  v.   168,  pp.  1105- 
1108,  1919. 

72.  "Universal"  frequency  standardization  from  a  single  frequency  standard,  J.  K. 

Clapp,  /.  0.  S.A.,  V.  15,  No.  1,  pp.  25-47,  July,  1927. 

73.  Frequency  demultiplication,  Balth  Van  der  Pol  and  J.  Van  der  Mark,  Nature,  v. 

120,  pp.  363-364,  Sept.,  1927. 

74.  Uber  Relaxationschwingungen,  B.  Van  der  Pol,  Jr.,  Zeits.f.  Hochfrequenztechnik,  v. 

29,  pp.  114r-118,  April,  1927. 


586  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

75.  Fractional  frequency  generators  utilizing  regenerative  modulation,  R,  L.  Miller 

/.  R.  E.  Proc,  V.  27,  No.  7,  pp.  446-457,  July,  1939. 

76.  Generation  and  control  of  electric  waves,  Joseph  W.  Horton.     U.  S.  Patent  No 

1,690,299,  filed  March,  1922,  issued  November,  1928. 

77.  Piezoelectric  crystal,  Warren  A.  Marrison.     U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,899,163,  filed  Dec. 

1928,  issued  Feb.,  1933.  U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,907,425,  filed  Dec,  1928,  issued 
May,  1933.  U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,907,426,  filed  Dec,  1928,  issued  May,  1933 
U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,907,427,  filed  Dec,  1928,  issued  May,  1933. 

78.  A  high  precision  standard  of  frequency,  W.  A.  Marrison,  /.  R.  E.  Proc,  v.  17,  pp 

1103-1126,  July,  1929.     B.  S.  T.  /.,  v.  8,  pp.  493-514,  July,  1929. 

79.  The  Crystal  Clock,  W.  A.  Marrison,  National  Academy  of  Sciences  Proc,  v.  16,  pp 

496-507,  July,  1930. 

80.  Gravity  measurements  on  the  U.  S.  S.  Barracuda,  Maurice  Ewing,  Transactions  of  the 

American  Geophysical  Union,  1937. 

81.  Gravity  at  sea  by  pendulum  observations,  Albert  J.  Hoskinson,  American  Institute  of 

Mining  and  Metallurgical  Engineers  Technical  Publication  No.  955,  New  York 
Meeting,  1938. 

82.  Modern  developments  in  precision  clocks,  Alfred  L.  Loomis  and  W.  A.  Marrison, 

A.  I.E.  E.  Trans.,  v.  51,  pp.  527-537,  June,  1932. 

83.  The  precise  measurement  of  time,  A.  L.  Loomis,  Monthly  Notices,  R.  A.  S.,  v.  91, 

March,  1931. 

84.  The  spark  chronograph,  W.  A.  Marrison,  Bell  Laboratories  Record,  v,  18,  No.  2,  pp. 

54^57,  October,  1939. 

85.  Quartz  Crystals  for  Electrical  Circuits,  Raymond  A.  Heising.     Book.     D.  Van 

Nostrand,  Inc.     New  York,  1946. 

86.  A  new  quartz  crystal  plate,  designated  the  GT,  which  produces  a  very  constant 

frequency  over  a  wide  temperature  range.  W.  P.  Mason.  /.  R.  E.  Proc,  v. 
28,  No.  5,  pp.  220-223,  May,  1940. 

87.  The  bridge  stabilized  oscillator,  L.  A.  Meacham,  /.  R.  E.  Proc,  v.  26,  No.  10,  pp. 
•    1278-1294,  October,  1938. 

88.  Time  determination  and  time  broadcast,  J.  F.  Hellweg,  Franklin  Institute  Jl.     No. 

223,  pp.  549-563,  1937. 

89.  The  measurement  of  time,  Sir  Harold  Spencer  Jones,  Endeavour,  v.  4,  pp.  123-130, 

October,  1945. 

90.  Translating  Circuits.     (A  continuous  phase  shifter),  W.  A.  Marrison.  U.  S.  Patent 

No.  1,695,051,  filed  May,  1925,  issued  Dec,  1928. 

91.  Standard  Frequency  System,  W.  A.  Marrison.  U.  S.  Patent  No.  2,087,326,  filed 

Sept.,  1934,  issued  July,  1937. 

92.  Phase  Shifting  Apparatus,  Larned  A.  Meacham.     U.  S.  Patent  No.  2,004,613,  filed 

Aug.,  1933,  issued  June,  1935. 

93.  A  multiple  unit  steerable  antenna  for  short  wave  reception,  H.  T.  Friis  and  C.  B. 

Feldman,  Proc  I.  R.  E.,  v.  25,  pp.  841-915,  July,  1937. 

94.  Clocks  showing  mean  and  sidereal  time  simultaneously,  F.  Hope-Jones,  Franklin 

Institute  Jl.     No.  223,  pp.  95-100,  January,  1937. 

95.  Sur  des  horloges  indiquant  simultanement  le  temps  solaire  moyen  et  le  temps  sideral, 

Ernest  Esclangon.     Comptes  Rendus,  206,  pp.  289-292,  January  31,  1938. 

96.  Electrical     Engineers'     Handbook,     Pender-Mcllwain.     Chapter     on     Frequency 

Measurement  by  W.  A.  Marrison.  John  Wiley  &  Sons,  Inc.,  New  York;  Chap- 
man &  Hall,  Ltd.,  London. 

97.  Frequency  standard,  W.  A.  Marrison.     U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,935,325,  filed  April,  1929, 

issued  Nov.,  1933. 

98.  Frequency  measurement,  W.  A.  Marrison.  U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,936,683,  filed  Sept., 

1931,  issued  Nov.,  1933. 

99.  High  precision  frequency  comparisons,  L.  A.  Meacham.     The  Bridge  of  Eta  Kappa 

Nu.,  v.  36,  pp.  5-8,  Feb.-March,  1940;  also  Bell  System  Technical  Monograph 
B-1232. 

100.  An  instrument  for  short-period  frequency  comparisons  of  great  accuracy,  H.  B.  Law, 

The  Jl.  of  the  Institution  of  Electrical  Engineers,  Vol.  94,  Part  III,  No.  27,  pp.  38- 
41,  January,  1947. 

101.  Electron  and  Nuclear  Counters — Theory  and  Use,  Serge  A.  Korff.    Book.     D.  Van 

Nostrand  Company,  Inc.,  New  York,  1946. 

102.  Electronic  Counters,  I.  E.  Grosdoff,  R.  C.  A.  Review,  v.  7,  No.  3,  pp.  438-447,  Sept., 

1946. 


EVOLUTION  OF  QUARTZ  CRYSTAL  CLOCK  587 

103.  Method  and  Means  for  Indicating  Synchronism,  W.  A.  Marrison.  U.  S.  Patent  No. 

1,762,725,  filed  March,  1928,  issued  June,  1930. 

104.  Split  second  time  runs  today's  world,  F.  Barrows  and  Catherine  Bell  Palmer,  The 

National  Geographic  Magazine,  v.  92,  No.  3,  Sept.,  1947.     See  page  402. 

105.  Frequency  and  Time  Control  Aided  by  Telephone  Company,  H.  C.  Forbes  and  F. 

Zaugbaum,  Electrical  World,  pp.  117-118,  January  20,  1934. 

106.  Generation  of  reference  frequencies,  L.  A.  Meacham,  Bell  Laboratories  Record,  v. 

17,  pp.  138-140,  January,  1939. 

107.  Fine  Quarzuhr  fiir  Zeit-  und  Frequenzmessung  sehr  hoher  Genauigkeit.     A.  Scheibe 

und  U.  Adelsberger.     Physikalische  Zeitschrift,  v.  ZS,  No.  21,  pp.  835-841,  Novem- 
ber, 1932. 

108.  Die   Technischen   Einrichtungen    der   Quarzuhren   der    Physikalisch-Technischen 

Reichsanstalt.     A.  Scheibe  und  U.  Adelsberger.     Hochfrequenztechnik  und  Elektro- 
akustik,  V.  43,  pp.  37-47,  February,  1934. 

109.  Uber  die  ersten  Erfahrungen  mit  den  Quarzuhren  des  Preussischen  Geodatischen 

Instituts,  E.  Kohlschiitter.     Verhandlungen  der  Siebenten  Tagung  der  Baltis- 
chen  Geodatischen  Kommission.     1935. 

110.  German   Quartz   Clocks.     BJ.O.S.   Report  No.    1316.     H.    M.    Stationery  Office, 

London.     See  also  Science  Abstracts  B,  page  242,  September,  1947,  and  Electrical 
Engineering  Abstracts  B,  September,  1947. 
HI.  Quartzuhr  und  Normallfrequenz-Generator,  L.  Rhode  und  R.  Leonhardt,  E.  N.  T., 
pp.  117-122,  June,  1940. 

112.  The  national  primary  standard  of  radio  frequency,  E.  L.  Hall,  V.  E.  Heaton  and 

E.  G.  Clapham.     /.  Research  of  National  Bureau  of  Standards,  v.  14,  pp.  85-98, 
1935. 

113.  Crystal  clock  for  accurate  time  standard,  Vincent  E.  Heaton,  Instruments,  v.  20, 

No.  7,  pp.  618-619  July,  1947. 

114.  W.W.V.  standard  frequency  broadcasts,  W.  D.  George,  F.M.  and  Television,  v.  7, 

pp.  25-27,  June,  1947. 

115.  Time  service  of  the  U.  S.  Naval  Observatory,  J.  Frederick  Hellweg,  Trans.  A.  L  E.  E., 

V.  51,  No.  2,  pp.  538-540,  June,  1932. 

116.  Quartz  crystal  clocks — How  Greenwich  mean  time  is  determined,  Humphry  M. 

Smith,  Electrical  Times,  London,  pp.  448-451,  March  28,  1946. 

117.  The  Measurement  of  Time,  H.  Spencer  Jones.     Reports  on  Progress  in  Physics, 

V.  4,  pp.  1-26,  1937.     The  University  Press,  Cambridge,  1938. 

118.  Proceedings  of  Observatories — Royal  Observatory,  Greenwich.     H.  Spencer  Jones, 

Monthly  Notices  of  R.A.S.,  v.  103,  No.  2,  pp.  77,  78,  1943. 

119.  The  short-period  erratics  of  free  pendulum  and  quartz  clocks,  W.  M.  H.  Greaves  and 

L.  S.  T.  Symms,  Monthly  Notices  of  R.  S.  A.,  v.  103,  No.  4,  pp.  196-209,  1943. 

120.  (a)  High  precision  timekeeping — Quartz  clock  now  supersedes  free  pendulum.     F. 

Hope-Jones,  Horological  Journal,  October,   1943. 

120.  (b)  The  precision  timekeeping  revolution — More  about  the  Quartz  Clock.     F.  Hope- 

Jones,  Horological  Journal,  November,  1943. 

121.  A  quartz  clock,  C.  F.  Booth,  P.O.E.E.  Journal,  v.  39,  Part  II,  pp.  33-37,  July,  1946. 

122.  A  standard  of  frequency  and  its  applications,  C.  F.  Booth  and  F.  J.  M.  Laver, 

The  Journal  of  the  L  E.  E.,  v.  93,  part  III,  pp.  223-236,  July,  1946. 

123.  Theory  and  practice  of  pendulum  observations  at  sea,   F.   A.   Vening  Meinesz. 

Netherlands  Geodetic  Commission,  1929. 

1 24.  Gravitational  force  measuring  apparatus,  W.  A.  Marrison.  U.  S.  Patent  No.  2,319,940, 

filed  Sept.,  1939,  issued  May,  1943. 

125.  The  Dye  quartz  ring  as  a  standard  of  frequency  and  time,  L.  Essen,  Proc.  Royal 

Soc,  V.  155A,  pp.  498-519,  July,  1936. 

126.  A  new  form  of  frequency  and  time  standard,  L.  Essen,  Proc.  Phys.  Soc.  of  London, 

V.  50,  pp.  413-426,  1938. 

127.  Crystal  oscillators  for  radio  transmitters:  An  account  of  experimental  work  carried 

out  by  the  Post  Office.     C.  F.  Booth  and  E.  J.  C.  Dixon.     Jl.  L  E.  E.,  v.  77,  pp. 
197-236,  1935. 

128.  Thermostat  design  for  frequency  standards,  W.   A.   Marrison,     Proc.   /.   R.   E., 

V.  16,  No.  7,  pp.  976-980,  July,  1928. 

129.  Superconductivity  of  lead  at  3-cm.  wavelength.     F.  Bitter,  J.  B.  Garrison,  J.  Hal- 

pern,  E.  Maxwell,  J.  C.  Slater  and  C.  F.  Squire,  Phys.  Rev.,  v.  70,  pp.  97,  98, 
July  1,  1946. 

130.  Enc.  Brit.  14th  Ed.     See  "Joseph  von  Fraunhofer". 


588  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

131.  Short  Electric  Waves,  E.  F.  Nicols  and  J.  D.  Tta^r,  Phys.  Rev.,  v.  21,  pp.  587-610, 

June,  1923. 

132.  The  shortest  continuous  waves,  C.  E.  Cleeton  and  N.  H.  Williams,  Phys.  Rev., 

V.  50,  p.  1091,  December,  1936. 

133.  A  millimeter-wave  reflex  oscillator,  J.  M.  Lafferty,     //.  of  Applied  Physics,  v.  17, 

No.  12,  pp.  1061-1066,  December,  1946. 

134.  Electromagnetic  waves  of   1.1  cm.  wavelength  and  the  absorption  spectrum  of 

ammonia,  C.  E.  Cleeton  and  N.  H.  Williams,  Phys.  Rev.,  v.  45,  pp.  234-237, 
Feb.  15,  1934. 

135.  The  ammonia  spectrum  and  line  shapes  near  1.25-cm.  wavelength,   Charles  Hard 

Townes,  Phys.  Rev.,  v.  70,  pp.  665-671,  November,  1946. 

136.  The  inversion  spectrum  of  ammonia,  William  E.  Good,  Phys.  Rev.,  v.  70,  pp.  213- 

218,  August,  1946. 

137.  A  new  method  for  measuring  nuclear  magnetic  moments.     (Letter  to  the  editor), 

I.  I,  Rabi,  J.  R.  Zacharias,  S.  Millman  and  P.  Kusch,     Phys.  Rev.,  v.  53,  p.  318, 
1938. 

138.  Molecular  beam  technique,  I.  Estermann.     Reviews  of  Modern  Physics,  v.  18,  No.  3, 

pp.  300-323,  July,  1946. 

139.  The  molecular  beam  magnetic  resonance  method.     The  radiofrequency  spectra  of 

atoms  and  molecules.    J,  B,  M.  Kellogg  and  S.  Millman,     Reviews  of  Modern 
Physics,  V.  18,  No.  3,  pp.  323-352,  July,  1946. 

140.  The  rotation  of  the  earth,  and  the  secular  accelerations  of  the  sun,  moon  and  planets. 

H.  Spencer  Jones,  Astronomer  Royal,     Monthly  Notices  of  R.  A.  S.,  v.  99,  pp. 
541-558,  May,  1939. 


Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors 

Experimental  Determination  of  Helical-Wave  Properties}  C.  C.  Cutler. 
The  properties  of  the  wave  propagated  along  a  hehx  used  in  the  traveling- 
wave  amplifier  are  discussed.  A  description  is  given  of  measurements  of 
field  strength  on  the  axis,  field  distribution  around  the  helix,  and  the  velocity 
of  propagation.  It  is  concluded  that  the  actual  field  in  the  helix  described 
is  slightly  weaker  than  would  be  predicted  from  the  relations  presented  by 
J.  R.  Pierce  for  a  hypothetical  helical  surface. 

Results  of  Microwave  Propagation  Tests  on  a  40-Mile  Overland  Path?  A.  L. 
DuRKEE.  This  paper  gives  the  results  of  a  series  of  microwave  radio  prop- 
agation tests  over  an  unobstructed  40-mile  overland  path.  The  purpose  of 
the  tests  was  to  investigate  the  transmission  characteristics  of  such  a  path 
at  centimeter  wavelengths  over  a  long  period  of  time.  Statistics  on  the 
transmission  results  at  wavelengths  ranging  from  1.25  to  42  cm.  are  given. 
The  tests  extended  over  a  period  of  about  two  years. 

A  Tunable  Vacuum-Contained  Triode  Oscillator  for  Pulse  Service?  C.  E. 
Fay*  and  J.  E.  Wolfe.  A  tunable  push-pull  triode  oscillator  is  described 
in  which  the  vacuum-tube  components  and  the  entire  r.f.  portion  of  the 
oscillator  circuit  are  contained  in  an  evacuated  metallic  envelope.  A 
terminal  is  provided  for  coaxial  output  into  a  50-ohm  transmission  Hne. 
The  oscillator  was  developed  for  the  frequency  range  of  390  to  435  Mc. 
and  is  tunable  by  mechanical  means  continuously  through  this  range.  Pulse 
power  of  above  J  megawatt  is  obtained  with  pulse  voltages  of  15  to  17 
kilovolts  applied. 

A  Proposed  Loudness-Eijlciency  Rating  for  Loudspeakers  and  the  Deter- 
mination of  System  Power  Requirements  for  Enclosures}  H.  F.  Hopkins  and 
N.  R.  Stryker.  Experimental  and  computed  data  relating  to  the  loudness 
contribution  of  various  ranges  of  the  frequency  spectra  of  speech  and  music 
are  correlated  with  the  corresponding  energy  distribution.  A  relatively 
simple  measurement  of  sound  pressure  and  a  knowledge  of  certain  acoustic 
radiation  phenomena  are  applied  to  this  correlation  to  form  the  basis  of  a 

1  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  February  1948. 

2  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  February  1948. 

3  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  February  1948. 
*  Of  Bell  Tel.  Labs. 

4  Proc.  I.  R.E.,  March  1948. 

589 


590  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

method  for  predicting  the  loudness  established  by  loudspeakers  in  enclosures. 
A  loudness-efficiency  rating  for  loudspeakers  is  suggested,  and  its  application 
to  sound-system  engineering  problems  is  described. 

A  Sheet  of  Air  Bubbles  as  an  Acoustic  Screen  for  Underwater  Noise} 
Donald  P.  Loye*  and  Wm.  Fred  Arndt.  In  Pearl  Harbor,  where  there 
often  were  eight  hundred  ships  of  all  kinds,  the  underwater  noise  level  was 
high.  No  place  was  found  where  noise  measurements  could  be  made  satis- 
factorily, and  therefore  it  was  decided  that  the  best  arrangement  would  be  to 
insulate  Auxiliary  Repair  Docks  and  measure  the  noise  of  submarines  while 
they  were  in  the  docks.  This  was  done  by  the  development  of  a  suitable  air 
bubble  screen  across  the  open  end  of  the  dock.  Such  an  acoustic  barrier  was 
comparatively  easy  to  install,  did  not  interfere  with  submarines  entering 
and  leaving,  kept  ocean  surface  oil  out  of  the  dock,  insulated  against  low- 
as  well  as  high-frequency  noises  as  was  required  and,  after  extensive  experi- 
mentation, the  noise  of  the  screen  was  reduced  to  a  level  that  did  not  interfere 
with  the  noise  measurements.  The  insulation  of  the  screen  upon  the  noise 
of  a  nearby  submarine  charging  batteries  is  illustrated  by  a  phonograph 
recording. 

A  Method  of  Determhting  and  Monitoring  Power  and  Impedance  at  High 
Frequencies}  J.  F.  Mokrison  and  E.  L.  Younker.  A  method  and  newly 
developed  devices  for  determining  and  monitoring  power  and  impedance 
levels  in  transmission  lines  at  high  frequencies  are  explained.  Practical 
considerations  influencing  accurate  determination  of  power  and  impedance 
levels  are  analyzed,  and  the  previous  and  newly  developed  methods  of 
monitoring  these  important  quantities  under  changing  conditions  of  load 
are  compared. 

Automatic  Volume  Control  as  a  Feedback  Problem?  B.  M.  Oliver. 
Feedback  ampHfier  theory  is  shown  to  be  applicable  to  the  usual  a.v.c. 
system.  Expressions  are  derived  for  the  loop  gain  in  terms  of  the  design 
requirements  and  the  gain-control  characteristic  of  the  controlled  amplifier. 
Using  these  expressions,  the  design  of  an  a.v.c.  system  is  quite  straightfor- 
ward and  its  characteristics,  such  as  regulation  and  effect  on  desired  modula- 
tion, are  readily  predictable. 

^  Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  Anter.,  March  1948. 

*  Of  Western  Electric  Co. 

« Proc.  L  K.  E.,  February  1948. 

7  Proc.  L  R.  £.,  April  1948. 


Contributors  to  this  Issue 

W.  R.  Bennett,  B.S.,  Oregon  State  College,  1925;  A.M.,  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, 1928.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1925-.  Mr.  Bennett  has  been 
active  in  the  design  and  testing  of  multichannel  communication  systems, 
particularly  with  regard  to  modulation  processes  and  the  effects  of  nonlinear 
distortion.  As  a  member  of  the  Transmission  Research  Department,  he  is 
now  engaged  in  the  study  of  pulse  modulation  techniques  for  sending  tele- 
phone channels  by  microwave  radio  relay. 

H.  T.  BuDENBOM,  B.S.E.E.,  1922  and  E.E.,  1928,  Purdue  University; 
part  time  postgraduate  work  at  Columbia  and  New  York  Universities. 
Western  Electric  Company,  Engineering  Department,  and  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories  since  1922.  Wire  transmission  problems,  radio  interference 
studies,  point-to-point  communication  facilities  and  aviation  radio  develop- 
ment until  1933.  Since  1933  Mr.  Budenbom's  development  work  has  been 
primarily  on  classified  projects,  which  have  included  radio  direction  finder 
and  various  types  of  radars.  His  present  activities  remain  primarily  in  the 
field  of  classified  military  electronics. 

Charles  Clos,  C.E.,  New  York  University,  1927.  New  York  Telephone 
Company,  plant  extension  engineering,  valuation  and  depreciation  matters, 
intercompany  settlements  and  tandem  and  tool  fundamental  plans,  1927-47. 
Pratt  Institute,  Evening  School,  Mathematics  Instructor,  1946-48.  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories,  studies  on  development  planning  for  local  and  toll 
switching  systems,  1947-. 

Warren  A.  Marrison,  B.Sc.  in  Physics,  Queen's  University,  Kingston, 
Canada,  1920;  M.A.  in  Mathematics  and  Physcis,  Harvard  University,  1921. 
Engineering  Department,  Western  Electric  Company,  1921-25;  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  1925-.  Mr.  Marrison's  work  has  consisted  largely  of 
the  development  and  applications  of  precise  standards  of  frequency. 

S.  A.  Schelkunoff,  B.A.,  M.A.  in  Mathematics,  The  State  College  of 
Washington,  1923;  Ph.D.  in  Mathematics,  Columbia  University,  1928.  En- 
gineering Department,  Western  Electric  Company,  1923-25;  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,   1925-26.     Department   of  Mathematics,   State   College  of 

591 


592  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Washington,  1926-29.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1929-.  Dr.  Schel- 
kunoff  has  been  engaged  in  mathematical  research,  especially  in  the  field  of 
electromagnetic  theory. 

Claude  E.  Shannon,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  University  of  Michi- 
gan, 1936;  S.M.  in  Electrical  Engineering  and  Ph.D.  in  Mathematics,  M.I.T., 
1940.  National  Research  Fellow,  1940.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1941-.  Dr.  Shannon  has  been  engaged  in  mathematical  research  principally 
in  the  use  of  Boolean  Algebra  in  switching,  the  theory  of  communication, 
and  cryptography. 


I3J_ 

VOLUME  XXVII  OCTOBER,  1948  no.  4 

Public  '  ibrary 

Kan&tis  City,  McS 

THE  BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

DEVOTED  TO  THE  SCIENTIFIC  AND  ENGINEERING  ASPECTS 
OF  ELECTRICAL  COMMUNICATION 


Equivalent  Circuits  of  Linear  Active  Four-Terminal  Net- 
works   L,C.  Peterson  593 

A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication  (Concluded) 

C.  E.  Shannon  623 

Transients  in  Mechanical  Systems J,  T,  Muller  657 

Maximally-Flat  Filters  in  Wave  Guide  .  .W.W.  Mumford  684 

Transient  Response  of  an  FM  Receiver M.K.  Zinn  714 

Transverse  Fields  in  Traveling- Wave  Tubes  .  .J,R,  Pierce  732 

Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors. . .  747 

Contributors  to  this  Issue 752 


AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK 


50^  per  copy  $1.50  per  Year 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Published  quarterly  by  the 

American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

195  Broadway,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

■  >i  >  >  i»  turn  •  •  •  • 

EDITORS 
R,  W.  King  J.  O.  Perrine 

EDITORUL  BOARD 

C.  F.  Craig  O.  E.  Buckley 

O.  B.  BlackweU  M.  J.  KeUy 

H.  S.  Osborne  A.  B.  Clark 

J.  J.  PiUiod  F.  J.  Feely 


m  i>  '•"&  Mil*  i«i  a  i«  » 


SUBSCRIPTIONS 


Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $1.50  per  year.     Single  copies  are  50  cents  each. 
The  foreign  postage  is  35  cents  per  year  or  9  cents  per  copy. 


■     ■■■>■■■!■■ 


Copyright,  1948 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


PRINTED  IN  U.S.  A. 


The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal 

Vol.  XXVII  October,  1948  No.  4 


Equivalent  Circuits  of  Linear  Active  Four-Terminal  Networks* 

By 
LISS  C.  PETERSON 

Introduction 

THE  art  of  equivalent  network  representation  has  grown  very  con- 
siderably since  its  inception  by  Dr.  G.  A.  Campbell.  In  his  paper 
"Cissoidal  Oscillations"  which  was  published  in  1911  he  proved  that  any 
passive  network  made  up  of  a  finite  number  of  invariable  elements  and  hav- 
ing one  pair  of  input  terminals  and  one  pair  of  output  terminals  is  externally 
equivalent  to  an  unsymmetrical  T  or  11  network.  From  this  modest  be- 
ginning the  field  of  applications  of  the  equivalent  circuit  concept  has  steadily 
expanded  so  that  by  now  the  whole  field  of  linear  passive  circuit  theory  has 
been  subjected  to  equivalent  circuit  interpretation. 

With  the  advent  of  the  thermionic  vacuum  tube  amplifier,  linear  active 
network  theory  had  to  be  considered  and  almost  immediately  the  attempt 
was  made  to  obtain  an  equivalent  circuit  whose  performance  would  depict 
the  linear  characteristic  of  the  tube.  The  equivalent  circuit  art  has  also, 
in  recent  years,  been  used  to  describe  the  performance  of  certain  classes  of 
non-linear  devices,  such  as  mixers,  and  further  applications  in  this  field  will 
no  doubt  be  made. 

Equivalent  circuit  concepts  have  played  an  important  part  in  electrical 

*  This  paper  appears  substantially  as  it  was  originally  prepared  some  years  ago  as  a 
technical  memorandum  for  internal  distribution  within  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 
Its  publication  is  rendered  timely  by  the  applicabiUty  to  the  recently  announced  transis- 
tor devices.  Present  experience  indicates,  in  fact,  that  the  configuration  of  Fig.  13 
furnishes  the  most  useful  equivalent  four-pole  network  for  the  transistor. 

Mr.  J.  A.  Morton  has  called  my  attention  to  an  early  paper  in  this  field  by  Strecker  and 
Feldtkeller  (E.N.T.  Vol.  6,  page  93,  1929)  in  which  the  general  theory  of  active  networks 
has  been  well  developed.  However,  the  early  state  of  the  then  prevailing  art  prevented  the 
full  demonstration  of  the  power  of  the  method  and  of  course  precluded  the  possibility  of 
apphcation  to  modern  devices.  This  paper  enlarges  the  general  theory  and  makes  logical 
applications  of  the  method  to  modern  devices.  Since  the  appearance  of  the  Strecker- 
Feldtkeller  paper  several  other  papers  touching  upon  this  subject  have  appeared.  How- 
ever, no  attempt  at  giving  a  complete  bibliography  will  be  made,  except  to  call  attention 
to  the  contributions  of  Prof.  M.  J.  O.  Strutt,  who  also  has  adopted  the  four-pole  point  of 
view. 

The  I.R.E.  Electron  Tube  Committee  has  adopted  the  four-pole  viewpoint  and  has 
proposed  methods  of  tests  for  experimentally  determining  the  four-pole  parameters  of  elec- 
tron tubes.  This  material  will  be  pubhshed  in  the  new  I.R.E.  standards  on  electron 
tubes. 

593 


594  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

engineering,  particularly  in  communication  engineering.  One  might  almost 
say  that  a  problem  is  not  solved  unless  an  equivalent  circuit  has  been  found 
whose  performance  will  exhibit  some  of  the  characteristics  of  the  actual 
problem.  This  need  for  circuit  concepts  reflects  a  desire  to  make  the 
phenomena  more  alive  and  subject  to  physical  interpretation,  for  it  is  true 
that  equivalent  circuit  concepts  have  greatly  contributed  towards  physical 
interpretation  of  analytical  expressions.  A  problem  may  very  well  be 
studied  without  recourse  to  the  equivalent  circuit  concept  and  a  correct 
answer  obtained,  yet  the  development  of  an  equivalent  circuit  adds  greatly 
to  the  complete  interpretation  of  the  physical  phenomena. 

In  this  paper  we  shall  be  concerned  only  with  linear  a-c  amplifier  operation 
where  the  term  linear  indicates  that  the  analytical  expressions  connecting 
currents  and  voltages  are  linear,  that  is,  involve  only  the  first  power  of  any 
instantaneous  current  or  its  derivative.  We  shall  further  restrict  our  atten- 
tion to  the  usual  mode  of  four-terminal  amplifier  operation  in  which  one  pair 
of  terminals  is  associated  with  the  signal  to  be  amplified  and  the  other  pair 
with  the  amplified  signal.  The  equivalent  a-c  circuit  of  such  a  transducer 
will  require  the  development  and  interpretation  of  the  linear  relations 
connecting  the  a-c  currents  and  voltages  at  the  input  terminals  with  corre- 
sponding quantities  at  the  output  terminals.  At  this  point  we  can  logically 
postulate  that  the  important  formal  difference  between  an  active  and  a 
passive  four-pole  lies  in  that  the  law  of  reciprocity  no  longer  can  be  assumed 
to  hold  for  the  active  network.  Since  passive  four-poles  require  three  inde- 
pendent parameters  for  their  complete  specification  the  active  four-pole 
will  require  at  least  one  additional  parameter. 

In  the  practical  applications  we  shall  be  principally  concerned  with  the 
various  triode  four-pole  connections.  A  short  review  of  the  various  stages 
involved  in  deriving  the  newer  forms  of  equivalent  triode  circuits  will  there- 
fore be  considered  prior  to  the  introduction  of  generalized  concepts.  Such 
a  review  is  in  the  main  concerned  with  the  effect  of  frequency  upon  the 
early  forms  of  the  equivalent  triode  circuit. 

In  the  review  we  shall  confine  ourselves  to  the  usual  grounded  cathode 
mode  of  operation  since  it  is  only  in  recent  times  that  grounded  grid  and 
grounded  plate  operation  have  come  into  use.  This  distinction  is,  however, 
not  necessary  and  is  introduced  solely  for  simplicity- 

The  conventional  notation  as  well  as  the  positive  current  directions  are 
indicated  on  Fig.  1  for  a  general  four-pole  N.  It  is  assumed  here  that  termi- 
nals 1  are  the  available  input  and  terminals  2  the  available  output  terminals. 
This  choice  of  current  direction  appears  to  the  writer  to  be  the  most  con- 
venient to  use  when  the  four-pole  is  energized  at  the  input  terminals  1  only. 

Consider,  now,  a  grounded  triode  operated  at  such  a  low  frequency  that 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


595 


all  displacement  or  capacity  currents  can  be  disregarded,  and  let  it  first  be 
supposed  that  the  grid  is  negatively  polarized  with  respect  to  the  cathode  so 
that  grid  current  is  absent.  This  represents  the  most  primitive  form  of 
operation,  governed  by  a  law  which  has  been  termed  "The  equivalent-plate- 
circuit  Theorem."^  With  reference  to  the  assumed  current  direction  this 
theorem  may  be  expressed  by  saying  that  the  application  of  the  voltage  Fi  to 
the  grid  is  equivalent,  so  far  as  phenomena  in  the  plate  circuit  are  concerned, 
to  the  application  of  the  voltage  — /^Fi  in  series  with  a  resistance  r^  ,  where 
H  is  the  amplification  factor  and  r-p  the  internal  plate   resistance.     The 


® 


(D 


Fig.  1 — Current-voltage  relations  for  a  general  four-pole. 


® 


co- 


Fig.  2 — Equivalent  circuit  of  a  negative  grid  triode  at  low  frequencies. 


equivalent  circuit  for  this  mode  of  operation  is  thus  as  shown  in  Fig.  2,  where 
the  input  terminals  1  are  represented  by  the  grid  G  and  the  cathode  C  and 
the  output  terminals  by  the  anode  P  and  the  cathode  C.  In  terms  of  analy- 
sis the  circuit  is  described  by  the  two  equations 


/i  =  0 


(1) 


Equations  (1)  and  their  associated  circuit  Fig.  2  are  expressions  of  the 
fact  that  in  any  closed  loop  the  voltages  must  be  in  equiUbrium. 

By  a  slight  rearrangement  of  (1)  a  network  representation  based  on  current 

1  Chaffee,  "Theory  of  Thermionic  Vacuum  Tubes,"  page  192. 


596 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


equilibrium  may  be  obtained.     For  this  purpose  (1)  is  written  as 
/i  =  0 


1 


(2) 


The  corresponding  network  representation  is  as  shown  in  Fig.  3,  where  the 
energizing  source  in  the  plate  circuit  consists  of  a  constant  current  generator 

M 
of  strength  —  ~  Fi  impressed  across  the  output  terminals  2. 


© 

li        G 


® 


■op 


Co- 


■oC 


Fig.  3 — Equivalent  circuit  of  a  negative  grid  triode  at  low  frequencies. 


ru)/igV2 


Fig.  4 — Equivalent  circuit  of  a  positive  grid  triode  at  low  frequencies. 

Let  US  now  consider  a  further  step  and  assume  that  the  grid  is  positive  so 
that  grid  current  is  also  flowing.  In  regard  to  the  grid  circuit  there  is  a 
theorem  called  the  ''Equivalent-grid-circuit  Theorem"  which  is  exactly 
similar  to  the  corresponding  plate  circuit  theorem.  The  theorem  says  that 
the  a-c  grid  current  can  be  calculated  by  assuming  that  an  e.m.f.  iig  W 
acts  in  series  with  a  resistance  rg  where  //^  is  the  reflex  factor  and  Vg  the 
internal  grid  resistance.  In  symbols  and  by  using  the  potation  of  Fig.  1 
this  is  expressed  by: 

Fi  =  ;u,  F2  +  h  Tg  (3) 

By  combining  the  two  theorems  the  equivalent  circuit  of  Fig.  4  results. 
Again  by  writing  (3)  as 


/i  =   -  Ki  -  ^  K2 

fo  r„ 


(4) 


a  corresponding  network  based  upon  current  equilibrium  may  be  found. 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


597 


It  is  well  to  note  that  this  general  low-frequency  case  is  governed  by  the 
two  simultaneous  equations 


(5) 


/i  = 

2 

h  = 

_  ^ 

r 

P             rp 

K2 

ich  are 

of  the 

general  form 

/i  = 

^11 

Vl    +    ^12 

1^2 

f^r(> 

h  = 

^21 

l\    +    ^22 

F2 

CIC 

^11  = 

1 

rg 

iSl2     =      - 

rg 

/?21     = 

— 

^/322     = 

~ 

(6) 


(7) 


The  network  of  Fig.  4  is  thus  a  possible  form  of  circuit  interpretation  of 
(5)  or  (6).  It  may  also  be  observed  that  (6)  represents  at  least  formally 
the  most  general  formulation  of  the  Hnear  active  four-pole  so  that  even  at 
very  low  frequencies  the  general  four-pole  point  of  view  might  be  useful. 

Several  observations  may  now  be  made.  In  the  first  place  it  should  be 
noted  that  these  networks  are  not  based  on  any  study  of  the  internal  action 
of  the  tube,  but  rather  on  the  purely  formal  mathematical  process  of  dif- 
ferentiating the  two  functional  relations  which  express  the  broad  fact  that 
plate  and  grid  currents  are  some  unspecified  linear  continuous  functions  of 
the  grid  and  plate  potentials  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  operating  point. 

In  the  second  place  it  may  be  observed  that  the  network  of  Fig.  4  repre- 
sents in  a  sense  two  separate  networks  interacting  with  each  other  by  means 
of  voltage  or  current  generators.  This  method  of  equivalent  circuit  repre- 
sentation is  the  result  of  separate  interpretation  of  the  equivalent  plate  and 
grid  circuit  theorems.  As  a  corollary  it  follows  that  such  a  four-pole  equiva- 
lence involves  at  least  two  generators  within  the  network  in  order  to  take  the 
effect  of  interaction  into  account. 

We  may  say  that  the  networks  discussed  were  satisfactory  so  long  as  the 
frequency  was  low  enough  to  allow  displacement  currents  to  be  disregarded. 
With  the  operation  of  circuits  at  higher  frequencies  (up  to  the  order  of  10®  cps, 
say)  it  became  necessary  to  take  the  internal  tube  capacitances  into  account. 
This  was  done  by  the  superposition  of  a  capacity  network  as  shown  in  Fig. 
5.     It  is  interesting  as  well  as  instructive  to  formulate  this  network  transi- 


598 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


tion  in  analytical  terms.     The  transition  rests  upon  the  physical  fact  that  the 
total  current  entering  or  leaving  an  electrode  is  the  sum  of  conduction  and 


Fig.  5 — Equivalent  circuit  of  a  positive  grid  triode  at  moderately  low  frequencies. 


Fig,  6 — Parasitic  triode  network. 

displacement  current.    The  network  for  the  displacement  currents  is  passive 
and  is  shown  on  Fig.  6.     For  this  network: 


(8) 


/2    =    -/3l'2Fi  +  i822F2    J 

where  /i   is  input  and  I2  the  output  displacement  current.     The  coefficients 
appearing  have  the  values 

^n  =  -io^C,^  \  (9) 

^22  =  -ico(Cpc  +  Cg^   J 

The  potentials  appearing  in  (8)  are  the  same  as  those  which  occur  in  the 
conduction  current  equations  (5),  this  being  the  physical  condition  which 
also  must  be  satisfied.  By  adding  (5)  and  (8)  and  by  letting  /i  and  h 
mean  total  currents  we  get: 


/i  =  fl  +  ia,(C,e  4-  CgS\  V,-\^  +  ice  C,pj  F2 


(10) 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


599 


These  equations  are  again  of  the  form 

h    =    ^21  Vi    +    ^22  V2 

where  now 

1 


(11) 


^11    =    -    +    ^C0(C,c    +   C,p) 


/321    = 


+  ^coC, 


^2 


=-r- 


+  ioiiCpc  +  Cp) 


(12) 


The  network  interpretation  of  Fig.  5  is  consistent  with  (10)  and  so  does, 
in  fact,  constitute  a  possible  network  representation. 
From  (12)  the  relation 


(13) 


is  obtained.  The  thing  to  emphasize  is  that  this  sum  is  independent  of  the 
passive  feedback  admittance  and  that  it  is  a  constant  independent  of  fre- 
quency within  the  range  considered.  It  is,  moreover,  a  quantity  which 
only  is  correlated  with  the  conduction  currents  in  the  tube.  For  lack  of  a 
better  name  the  sum  (13)  will  be  referred  to  as  "the  effective  transconduct- 
ance."     It  will  play  an  important  role  in  the  later  discussion. 

As  still  higher  frequencies  (above  10  cps)  were  employed  it  necame  neces- 
sary to  take  into  account  lead  effects,  usually  in  the  form  of  self  and  mutual 
inductances,  and  by  incorporating  them  in  the  network  of  Fig.  5  a  slightly 
more  involved  circuit  was  obtained.  This  more  general  network  is  still 
determined  by  equations  of  the  form  (11),  for  adding  the  new  network  ele- 
ments merely  means  that  linear  transformations  are  applied  to  the  potentials 
Vi  and  V2  with  the  result  that  a  new  set  of  jS-coefficients  is  obtained,  the 
new  set  being  merely  of  somewhat  more  complicated  form  than  the  first. 

With  the  utilization  of  frequencies  so  high  that  the  electron  transit  times 
became  comparable  with  the  period  of  the  applied  signal,  further  complica- 
tions arose  and  the  equivalent  network  idea  was  put  to  a  severe  test.     In 


600  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

this  development  we  may  distinguish  between  two  methods  of  approach. 
In  one  the  attempt  was  made  to  modify  the  low-frequency  network  of  Fig. 
5  to  include  transit  time  effects  to  a  first  order  of  approximation. ^  The 
second  approach  differed  in  that  attention  was  directed  only  toward  the 
electron  stream  itself,  while  the  circuit  elements  connecting  the  stream  with 
the  physically  available  terminals  were  grouped  together  with  the  external 
circuit  elements.^  The  latter  approach  represented  a  particularly  useful 
one  from  a  physical  point  of  view  and  it  also  extended  the  use  of  basic  circuit 
elements  to  include  the  general  diode  impedance  as  a  new  circuit  element 
complete  in  itself.  However,  even  in  this  latest  approach  the  four-pole 
point  of  view  was  not  adopted,  with  consequent  loss  of  generality  and  unity 
in  viewpoint.  Moreover,  the  fact  that  only  the  electron  stream  itself  was 
considered  caused  some  confusion. 

With  this  brief  review  of  the  development  of  equivalent  circuit  representa- 
tion of  vacuum  tube  amplifiers  in  mind  we  turn  now  to  the  main  body  of  the 
paper  in  which  a  more  general  treatment  of  the  problem  is  considered.  It 
will  be  shown,  in  the  coming  sections,  how  it  is  possible  to  lump  all  the 
factors  involved  in  vacuum  tube  amplifiers,  i.e.,  physical  circuit  parameter 
and  internal  electronic  effects  involving  the  electron  transit  time,  into  a 
single  coordinated  picture  with  an  equivalent  circuit  representation  of  the 
overall  effect. 

Equivalent  Circuit  Representation  or  Active  Linear  Four-Pole 

Pole  Equations 

Whenever  the  response  of  a  general  transducer  is  related  in  a  linear  manner 
to  the  stimulus,  the  transducer  behavior  is  described  by  two  linear  relations. 
Although  we  are  primarily  concerned  with  electromagnetic  transducers  the 
concepts  to  be  used  are  of  broader  utihty  and  may,  for  example,  also  be 
applied  to  mechanical  and  electromechanical  transducers. 

There  are  various  ways  in  which  the  behavior  of  the  four-pole  may  be 
expressed  analytically.  The  form  expressing  current  equilibrium  has  al- 
ready been  given  and  it  may  well  serve  as  a  starting  point  for  the  following 
discussion: 

Thus  we  have: 


/i  =  /3iiFi  -f  /312F2I 

h    =    iSsiFi   H-   ^22721 


(14) 


2F.  B.  Llewellyn,  "Electron-Inertia  Effects,"  Cambridge  University  Press,  1941. 

'  F.  B.  Llewellyn  and  L.  C.  Peterson,  Interpretation  of  Ultra-High  Frequency  Tube 
Performance  in  Terms  of  Equivalent  Networks,  Proceedings  of  the  National  Electronics 
Conference,    1944. 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS  601 

as  expressions  for  current  equilibrium  at  any  frequency.     The  four  param- 
eters (3  which  appear  have  simple  physical  meanings,  and  it  is  seen  that 

^n  is  the  input  admittance  with  output  shorted 
— i822  is  the  output  admittance  with  input  shorted 
— jSi2  is  the  feedback  admittance  with  input  shorted 

i82i  is  the  transfer  admittance  with  output  shorted. 

Before  proceeding  to  the  network  representations  of  (14)  it  seems  well 
to  state  briefly  some  of  the  reasons  which  almost  force  one  to  adopt  the  four- 
pole  point  of  view  when  dealing  with  vacuum  tubes  in  the  higher  frequency 
range. 

There  are  the  pedagogical  reasons  that  classical  methods  long  employed 
for  passive  networks  are  merely  extended  into  the  realm  of  active  networks, 
thus  providing  unity  in  viewpoints. 

The  basic  analysis  involving  the  four-pole  parameters  for  a  particular 
transducer  needs  to  be  performed  only  once  and,  once  obtained,  all  problems 
involving  terminal  impedances  may,  in  any  particular  case,  be  solved  in  a 
routine  manner. 

There  are  also  further  practical  reasons.  We  saw  above  that  with  in- 
crease in  frequency  the  classical  equivalent  network  had  to  be  modified  to  a 
considerable  extent  in  order  to  include  the  parasitic  elements.  This  poses 
a  serious  problem  for  the  tube  designer,  whose  task  it  is  to  estimate  the  tube 
performance  between  known  terminations.  Such  a  task  based  upon  the 
modified  classical  circuit  becomes  very  dijQ&cult  and  cumbersome.  More- 
over, it  is  also  difficult  to  segregate  and  measure  the  parasitic  elements. 
Hence  it  appears  that  one  could  gain  much  if  design  parameters  could  be 
developed  capable  of  reflecting  parasitic  and  transit  time  effects.  Finally, 
it  is  desirable  to  develop  equivalent  circuits  with  a  minimum  number  of 
parameters  bearing  simple  relationships  to  quantities  which  can  be  measured 
directly. 

These  general  desires  arising  from  the  practical  needs  of  the  tube  designer 
can  be  satisfied  if  tube  behavior  is  specified  by  means  of  four-pole  parameters. 

All  in  all  the  four-pole  point  of  view  can  be  made  to  satisfy  the  logical 
needs  of  integrated  concepts  as  well  as  the  practical  needs  of  simplicity  in 
the  specification  of  tube  performance. 

After  this  brief  presentation  of  the  argument  for  the  four-pole  point  of 
view,  the  network  representation  of  (14)  will  now  be  considered. 

Stated  in  broadest  terms:  we  are  seeking  a  network  representation  by 
considering  the  two  equations  as  a  single  unit  and  not  by  the  trivial  considera 
tion  of  each  equation  by  itself. 


602 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


We  need,  to  begin  with,  the  well-known  network  representation  of  a 
passive  four-pole.     Equation  (14)  has,  then,  the  form 

/i  =  iSiiFi  +  ^nV2   1 

(15) 

h   =    -/3l2Fl  +  ^22F2J 

and  one  equivalent  circuit  representation  is  that  given  by  the  11  network 
having  the  element  values  shown  in  Fig.  7.  If  so  desired  the  11  network 
can  of  course  also  be  transferred  into  an  equivalent  T  network. 

-y3t2 


° 

~ 

y3,i+>3i2 

-(/322-y3l2) 

Fig.  7 — Equivalent  circuit  of  a  passive  four-pole. 

->3l2  (/3l2+/320V,| 


1^- 


/3n  +>9l2         -{/^22'y^\z) 


l^' 


Fig.  8 — Equivalent  circuit  of  an  active  four-pole;  current  impressed  at  the  output. 


Now  write  (14)  as 

h  =  iSiiFi  +  )8i2F2  ] 

h  =  -^i2Fi  -f  J822F2  +  (^12  +  1821) Fi J 


(16) 


Whence  it  is  seen  by  a  comparison  with  (15)  that  the  network  representation 
of  the  active  four-pole  differs  from  the  passive  one  merely  by  the  presence 
of  the  impressed  current  0(3i2  r  1821)  Vi .  A  possible  network  representation 
of  the  general  active  four-pole  is  thus  as  shown  on  Fig.  8. 

An  immediate  application  may  be  illuminating.  Consider,  for  example, 
the  triode  operated  with  positive  grid,  with  interelectrode  capacitances 
taken  into  account.  The  four-pole  equations  are  given  by  (11)  and  (12) 
and  the  classical  network  is  that  of  Fig.  5.  From  (12)  and  Fig.  8  we  get  the 
network  of  Fig.  9.  It  may  be  observed  that,  while  in  Fig.  5  the  source  and 
source-free  constituents  are  intermingled,  this  is  not  the  case  in  Fig.  9 
where,  on  the  contrary,  a  clear  demarcation  is  present  between  such  con- 
stituents. 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


603 


In  regard  to  the  general  network  of  Fig.  8  it  may  be  noted  that  the 
network  is  composed  of  two  parts.  One  part  obeys  the  reciprocal  law  and  is 
represented  by  a  11  (or  T)  network  and  is  consequently  specified  by  three 
parameters.  The  other  part  is  merely  an  impressed  current  controlled  by 
the  input  potential  Vi .     From  the  fact  that  the  11  (or  T)  network  obeys  the 


|vi        Cgc 


gp 


■(^<)M 


T^(-.)f   ^p-^ 


Cpc  |V2 


1- 


Fig.  9 — Equivalent  circuit  of  a  positive  grid  triode  at  moderately  low  frequencies; 
current  impressed  at  the  output. 


|(/3<2+/32,)V2 


I^' 


y3; 


(y3ii-/32l)         -(/322+/32i) 


}v. 


Fig,  10 — Equivalent  circuit  of  an  active  four-pole;  current  impressed  at  the  input. 


t-(t^^) 


Fig.  11 — ^Equivalent  circuit  of  a  positive  grid  triode  at  moderately  low  frequencies; 
current  impressed  at  the  input. 


reciprocal  law,  the  conclusion  does  not  follow  that  it  in  general  behaves  as  a 
passive  network.  The  element  values  may,  for  example,  be  negative,  and 
Bode's  integral  relations  may  not  necessarily  be  true  for  this  network. 

It  should  further  be  noted  that  the  network  representation  holds  for  all 
frequencies.  The  effect  of  frequency  will  be  that  the  admittances  in  the 
network  change  and  in  changing  they  will,  for  example,  reflect  effects  due  to 
parasitics  and  electron  transit  time. 


604  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

We  next  observe  that  the  network  of  Fig.  8  is  not  unique ;  in  other  words 
it  is  not  the  only  possible  network.  To  see  this  it  need  merely  be  observed 
that  from  the  group  of  four  independent  /?  parameters  in  (15)  there  are 
several  ways  in  which  a  subgroup  may  be  selected  containing  only  three  of 
them.  For  example  the  ''passive  part"  of  the  network  in  Fig.  8  was  con- 
structed from  the  three  parameters  jSn ,  iSi2  and  1822 .  But  this  is  evidently  not 
the  only  choice.  Moreover,  the  impressed  force  was  taken  to  be  voltage- 
controlled  but  this  again  does  not  represent  the  only  possibility. 

In  general  it  follows  that  the  "passive  part"  of  the  network  will  reflect 
at  least  three  properties  of  the  complete  network.  In  Fig.  8,  for  example, 
the  "passive  part"  reproduces  faithfully  the  two  short-circuit  driving-point 
admittances  and  the  feedback  admittance  of  the  complete  network. 

Finally  it  is  well  to  observe  that  only  one  driving  force  is  needed  in  the 
general  network  formulation. 

With  this  background  of  the  general  ideas  involved  let  us  now  further 
explore  some  of  the  possibilities  suggested  as  to  other  "passive  network" 
constituents.  Let  us,  for  example,  use  jSn ,  ^22  and  ^21  for  the  "passive  part". 
We  then  write  (14)  as 

h  =  /3iiFi  -  /321F2  +  (/3i2  +  /32i)F2l 

(17) 
h  =  ^2iFi  +  /322F2  J 

and  from  (17)  the  network  representation  of  Fig.  10  follows.  In  addition 
this  network  differs  from  that  of  Fig.  8,  in  that  the  impressed  current  appears 
on  the  input  side  and  that  it  is  controlled  by  the  output  rather  than  by  the 
input  voltage.  As  an  illustration  consider  again  the  triode  operated  with 
positive  grid.     The  equivalent  network  is  now  as  shown  in  Fig.  11. 

Now  let  it  be  supposed  that  the  impressed  force  be  current  rather  than 
voltage-controlled.     We  then  first  transform  (14)  into 


V       —     ^^  ^12    jr 


Pii 


(18) 


and  then  rewrite  (18)  as 


'       /3ii       /3ii     ' 


Pll  \  Pll  /  Pll 


(19) 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


605 


It  can  be  shown  that  the  network  representation  of  Fig.  12  is  consistent  with 
(19).  This  network  representation  suffers  from  two  obvious  disadvantages. 
One  is  that  the  ' 'passive  network"  is  determined  by  only  one  short-circuit 
driving-point  admittance  of  the  complete  network.  The  other  short-circuit 
driving-point  admittance  of  the  "passive  part"  appears  to  be  unrelated  to 
any  simple  admittance  which  may  be  found  from  measurements  at  the 
output  terminals  of  the  complete  network.  The  second  disadvantage  is 
that  the  coefficient  of  the  current  in  the  impressed  force  is  of  a  complicated 
nature,  since  a  driving-point  admittance  enters.  Moreover,  a  closer 
investigation  shows  that  in  this  network  representation  the  "passive  part" 
besides  preserving  the  driving-point  admittance  (3n  and  the  feedback  ad- 
mittance /3i2 ,  also  preserves  the  quantity  A^  =  i3iij322  —  i3 12/321  of  the  complete 
network. 


-/3, 


■y32. 


/3i 


1 


Ai+/3i2 


'  _       y3i2-H/32i-H/3„\  I, 


Fig.  12 — Equivalent  circuit  of  an  active  four-pole;  current  impressed  at  the  output. 

By  proceeding  from  (19)  in  a  way  similar  to  that  used  in  (17)  the  network 
in  Fig.  12  transforms  into  another  in  which  the  impressed  force  appears  on 
the  input  side.     Many  other  networks  can  also  be  found. 

The  networks  discussed  were  based  on  (14),  which  expressed  the  fact  of 
current  equilibrium  and  leads  rather  naturally  to  11  networks  together  with 
an  impressed  current  source.  On  the  other  hand,  starting  with  the  four- 
pole  equations  which  express  voltage  equilibrium,  one  encounters  T  networks 
together  with  impressed  electromotive  forces.  These  networks  must  now 
also  be  considered.  In  regard  to  the  details  involved  in  their  derivation  we 
may  be  very  brief  since  the  methods  are  similar  to  those  already  employed. 

The  four-pole  equations  expressing  voltage  equilibrium  may  be  written 
as 


Fi  =  Zn/i  -f  Z12/2 
V2  =  Z2.1I  I  +  Z22/2, 


(20) 


where  current  and  voltage  directions  are  assumed  to  be  taken  in  accordance 
with  the  conventions  of  Fig.  1. 


606 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


The  four  parameters  Z  are  of  simple  physical  significance  and  it  follows 
that: 

Zii  is  the  input  impedance  with  output  open 

—  Z22  is  the  output  impedance  with  input  open 

—  Z12  is  the  feedback  impedance  with  input  open 
Z21  is  the  transfer  impedance  with  output  open. 

The  relations  between  the  j8's  and  the  Z's  are  given  by  the  expressions: 

Z22 


where 


We  have  also 


^11  = 


i3l2    = 


Z12 

a7 


R  ^21 

P21    =     — — - 

Az 


1822  = 


Zn 

Z21 


Z12 
Z22 


(21) 


(22) 


where 


Az  = 


Afl 


^^  = 


/321       /322 


(23) 


(24) 


Applying  now  to  (20)  the  transformations  which  led  to  the  networks  of 
Figs.  9,  10  and  12,  we  get  the  networks  of  Figs.  13,  14  and  15. 

The  "passive  part"  of  the  network  in  Fig.  13  reproduces  the  two  open 
circuit  impedances  Zn  and  Z22  as  well  as  the  feedback  impedance  Z12  of  the 
complete  network. 

The  network  in  Fig.  14  differs  from  that  of  Fig.  13  because  of  the  use  of  the 
transfer  impedance  Z21  in  the  ''passive  part"  with  the  result  that  the  im- 
pressed current  appears  on  the  input  side. 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


6oi 


The  ''passive  part"  in  Fig.  15,  finally,  preserves  the  open-circuit  imped- 
ance Zu ,  the  feedback  impedance  Zn  and  the  determinant  Az  of  the  com- 
plete network.  This  network  shows  incidentally  a  close  resemblance  to  one 
already  published.^ 


-  ■• 

(Zl2  +  Z20l« 

^2       , 

1^. 

2ii  +  Zi2 

-Z,2 

L 

-(Z22-Z,2) 

-^  + 

1 

Fig.  13 — Equivalent  circuit  of  an  active  four-pole;  voltage  impressed  in  series  with  the 
output. 


.  I1 

-(Z,2  +  Z2,)l2 

I2       , 

l^- 

-Ky+ 

z„-Z2, 

-(Z22+Z2O 

Z21 

I 

Fig.  14 — Equivalent  circuit  of  an  active  four-pole;  voltage  impressed  in  series  with  the 
[  nput. 

2,2  +  Z2,  ^, 


z„  +  z, 


V, 


-z, 


:©^ ^ 


.(z.-z.?-|5^) 


V2 


Fig.  15 — Equivalent  circuit  of  an  active  four-pole;  voltage  impressed  in  series  with  the 
output. 

It  is  well  to  emphasize  that,  while  all  the  complete  networks  are  equiva- 
lent, this  is  not  true  for  the  ''passive  parts."  In  fact  from  their  derivation 
it  follows  that  none  are  equivalent.  Specific  circumstances  may  make  it 
desirable  to  perform  transformations  on  the  passive  parts.  For  example, 
it  might  be  more  convenient  to  work  with  a  11  than  with  a  T  network.  Such 
transformations  are  of  course  perfectly  legitimate  and  raise  the  question  of 
choice  of  equivalent  networks.     A  few  remarks  on  this  subject  may  be 


'Loc.  cit. 


608  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

appropriate,  since  the  choice  is  not  quite  a  matter  of  indifference.  Broadly 
speaking,  the  choice  will  depend  upon  the  relative  advantages  of  nodal  and 
mesh  analysis  and  in  most  practical  situations  the  former  has  proved 
to  be  the  more  convenient  of  the  two.  One  cannot,  however,  be  too  dog- 
matic in  this  regard.  Consider  the  networks  of  Figs.  8  and  13.  Suppose, 
for  example,  that  parasitic  elements  appearing  as  a  passive  11  network  had 
to  be  superimposed.  It  is  then  more  conventient  to  use  Fig.  8,  not  only  on 
account  of  the  ease  with  which  this  may  be  done,  but  also  on  account  of 
the  fact  that  the  effective  transadmittance  /3i2  +  1821  is  invariant  with  respect 
to  such  a  superposition.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  parasitic  elements  appear 
as  series  elements  (lead  inductances  for  example)  the  network  of  Fig.  13 
might  be  more  convenient  since  the  effective  transimpedahce  Z12  +  ^21 
now  remains  invariant. 

It  is  also  desirable  to  choose  an  equivalent  network  whose  elements  are 
capable  of  being  determined  by  simple  measurements;  from  this  considera- 
tion the  network  on  Fig.  8  is  of  distinct  advantage. 

Application  to  Triodes 

The  preceding  section  was  primarily  directed  towards  the  development 
of  possible  forms  of  network  representations  of  the  general  four-pole  equa- 
tions. In  this  section  one  of  these  forms,  namely  that  given  in  Fig.  8,  will 
be  used  to  represent  the  three  modes  of  triode  operation.  Depending  upon 
which  electrode  is  at  a-c  ground  pot^^ntial,  we  may  distinguish  between  the 
following  methods  of  operation: 

1.  Grounded  cathode  operation. 

2.  Grounded  grid  operation. 

3.  Grounded  plate  operation. 

The  schematic  diagrams,  together  with  assumed  voltage  and  current 
directions  for  these  modes,  are  shown  on  Figs.  16,  17  and  18  respectively. 

With  a  given  set  of  available  terminals  the  first  step  in  obtaining  the 
networks  consists  in  calculating  the  four-pole  parameters  with  respect  to 
these  terminals.  It  will  be  assumed  that  the  coupling  circuits  have  been 
designed  with  such  efficiency  that  lead  effects  can  be  disregarded,  so  that  the 
available  terminals  actually  coincide  with  anode,  grid  and  cathode.  This 
set  of  available  terminals  brings  us  as  close  to  the  electron  stream  as  it  is 
physically  possible  to  attain  and  it  represents  the  ideal  towards  which  design 
tends. 

It  is  beyond  the  scope  of  this  paper  to  consider  the  details  involved  in  the 
calculations  of  the  four-pole  parameters.  The  basic  tools  needed  are  the 
result  of  a  study  of  the  dynamics  of  the  electron  stream,  which  started  from 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


609 


fundamentals,  and  some  familiarity  with  this  work  is  assumed  on  the  part 
of  the  reader.  Concerning  these  tools  two  reservations  need  be  made.  In 
the  first  place  the  tools  apply  to  planar  rather  than  to  cylindrical  structures. 
Since,  however,  there  is  a  decided  tendency  toward  planar  structures, 
especially  in  the  high-frequency  field,  because  of  a  desire  for  uniform  electron 
streams,  this  limitation  does  not  seem  serious.  In  the  second  place  the  tools 
are  also  subject  to  the  limitation  of  a  single-valued  velocity  electron  stream. 


<>P 


Go 


Co 


Iv. 


■oC 


Fig.  16 — Vurrent- voltage  relations  for  the  grounded  cathode  triode. 


Go- 


•op 


■OG 


|V. 


CO- 


1       / 

/ 


Fig.  17 — Current- voltage  relations  for  the  grounded  grid  triode. 


fv, 

/                           \ 

Go— — 

\                           ! 

=^C 

I, 

\ 
\ 

/ 
1       / 
/ 

y 

Fig.  18 — Current- voltage  relations  for  the  grounded  plate  triode. 


This,  again,  is  not  too  serious,  since  one  of  the  aims  in  present  high-frequency 
tube  design  is  to  produce  as  uniform  a  stream  as  possible.  Nevertheless, 
the  effects  produced  by  multiple  velocities  are  important  to  know.  Studies 
along  such  lines  have  been  made  by  Mr.  Frank  Gray  of  these  Laboratories. 
The  operating  conditions  of  the  triode  are  assumed  to  be  quite  general. 
There  are,  for  example,  no  restrictions  placed  upon  frequency  and  space 
charge  and  the  grid  may,  moreover,  have  either  positive  or  negative  d-c 
potential  with  respect  to  the  cathode. 

^  F.  B.  Llewellyn  and  L.  C.  Peterson,  "Vacuum  Tube  Networks,"  Proceedings  of  the 
I.R.E.,  March,  1944. 


610 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


With  current  and  voltage  directions  as  in  Figs.  16,  17  and  18,  the  follow- 
ing Tables  I,  II  and  III  list  the  four-pole  parameters  for  the  three  modes  of 
triode  operation  in  both  ^  and  Z  forms. 

Table  I 
Four-Pole  Parameters  eor  Grounded  Cathode  Triode 

yil  +  ^21  +  ^22  ^  y22 

D  ^^^="^ 


^11 


/321    = 


^21  4-   3^22 

D 

/3ii     /3i2 

/321      /322 


3'22  + 


yii 


/322    =    — 
3'li  ^22 


Zll 


1   + 


1  +  J_ 

yVL         M>'22 

yn 


yn  +  yil  + 

M3'22 


-2^12  =   — 


yi\ 


Z21 + 

yn      yn  yn 


[yn      yil      ynyii^ 


Az 


Zll    Z12 
Z21    Z22 


_1_ 

A/3 


yii  ^22 


M« amplication  factor. 


The  y  admittance  coefficients  appearing  in  the  above  tables  were  fully- 
explained  and  discussed  in  the  paper  on  Vacuum  Tube  Networks,  to  which 
reference  has  already  been  made.  Suffice  it  here  to  say  that  yw  is  the 
admittance  of  the  diode  coinciding  with  cathode  and  equivalent  grid  plane 
and  3/22  the  admittance  of  the  diode  coinciding  with  the  equivalent  grid  plane 
and  the  anode  and  finally  yix  the  transadmittance  between  these  fictitious 
diodes.  The  admittance  yw  depends  upon  the  d-c  conditions  between  cath- 
ode and  grid  and  upon  the  transit  angle  for  this  region  alone.  The  diode 
admittance  >'22  depends  in  a  similar  manner  upon  tlje  d-c  space  charge 
conditions  in  the  grid-anode  region  as  well  as  upon  the  transit  angle  for  this 
region  alone.  For  the  small  degree  of  space  charge  which  usually  exists 
between  grid  and  plate  of  most  triodes,  3/22  can  be  represented  by  a  simple 
capacitance.  The  transadmittance  >'2i  can  be  resolved  into  two  factors,  the 
first  of  which  depends  only  upon  the  transit  angle  between  cathode  and 
grid,  and  the  second  only  upon  the  transit  angle  between  grid  and  anode. 
In  the  paper  on  vacuum  tube  networks  all  these  admittances  were  plotted 


Table  II 
Four-Pole  Parameters  for  Grounded  Grid  Triode 


/Sii  = 

= 

yn  f  1  + 
D 

i) 

„           yn 

/3l2  = - 

fxD 

yn 

y2i 

to=--^ 

.  yn 
y22-\ — 

. 

A,= 

^n    ^12 

^21      ^22 

yn  y22 

D  = 

,   yn  +  y2i  +  y22 

I  I- 

My22 

yii      nyr^ 

My22 

/xy22      yii  y22 

_y22      My22j 

Az  = 

Zn      Zn 

1 

Z) 

Z 

21         Z22 

A^ 

yuy22 

J 

M  =  amplification  factor. 

Table  III 
Four-Pole  Parameters  for  Grounded  Plate  I'riode 

yn  +  y2i  +  y22  ^  yn  +  y2i 


/3n  = 


^21 


^i2 


D 


yn 

D 


yn 


/S22  =  — 


(-0 


Z> 


A^ 


fin      /3i2 

/321        /322 

,  yn  +  y2i  +  y22 


yuy22 


My22 


1         1 


Zn  =  —  + 


y22      My22 


Zo,     =     — 


y22 

Zn      Z12 
Zai      Z22 

fi  =  amplication  factor. 


[_y2i      yn  ynj 
[_yii      y22      yu  yaj 


Az 


J_ D_ 

Aj3  yn  y22 

611 


612 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


graphically,  showing  both  phase  and  magnitude,  and  this  paper  is  referred 
to  for  details. 

Tables  I,  II  and  III,  in  conjunction  with  Figs.  8,  13  and  15,  allow  us  to 
derive  the  equivalent  networks  of  Figs.  19,  20  and  21. 

We  must  now  undertake  a  discussion  of  the  results  given  in  the  tables  as 
well  as  of  the  networks  which  were  derived  from  them. 


y2i 

D 

V 

1 

,   I1 

' 

'^  - 

y22 

jv.      yti+y2i 

D 

Wii 
MO 

I 

1    '              D 

o 

(a) 


y2t 


yn  y22 


I, 

^y22 

(7^ 

^2      , 

-Ky+ 

1 

-...y- 

1^' 

1 

yii 

y22    yii  y22 

i 

o 

(b) 


kv, 

3    I' 

' 

(7^ 

^2       3 

Xy+ 

1 

^y22 

4 

|v. 

1 
yii 

V  1    ,     1       ysi 

y22       ^y22    Upp  +  ^ 

1 

—      M 

(c) 


k  = 


y2i 


y.a.^ 


Vz 


Fig.  19  (a,  b,  c) — Three  forms  of  equivalent  circuits  of  the  grounded  cathode  triode 
valid  at  all  frequencies. 


Initially,  it  is  well  to  emphasize  again  that  the  four-pole  parameters  and 
the  corresponding  networks  are  different  but  equivalent  ways  through  which 
the  triode  signal  behavior  becomes  completely  specified  for  all  conditions  of 
space  charge  and  for  all  frequencies. 

Secondly,  there  are  certain  general  relations  which  should  be  noted.  We 
observe,  first,  that  the  determinants  A^  and  Az  are  invariants  for  the  dif- 
ferent modes  of  triode  operation,  and  with  exception  of  phase  reversals  this 

^Loc.  cit. 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


613 


is  also  the  case  for  the  effective  transadmittance  ^12  +  i32i  as  well  as  for  the 
effective  transimpedance  Zu  +  Z21  .  On  the  other  hand,  the  quantity 
Z      I     y 

— — ,  which  appears  in  the  network  of  Fig.  15  and  which  represents 

Zn 

the  driving  force  per  unit  input  voltage,  is  invariant  (except  for  reversal  in 
phase)  only  for  grounded  grid  and  grounded  cathode  operation.     Several 


°         1          I, 

L 

■ 

' 

y<i 

1- 

ytt 

D 

MD 

y22 

D 

I 

(a) 


y2i 


yiiy22 


I, 

(^ 

'2    _ 

— *► 

-^+ 

1- 

0 

yit 

1 
>"y22 

1 

y22 

• 

1 

— — — — 0 

(b) 


(c) 


k  = 


y2t 


y22  +  yii 


V2 


kv, 

• 

II 

(7^ 

'2       0 

-Ky+ 

1 

y.i 

■f 

1        y2i 

{v, 

1 
-^y22 

'   1 
^  —  + 

y22 

1 

^y22   y22  +  ^ 

Va 


Fig.  20  (a,  b,  c) — Three  forms  of  equivalent  circuits  of  the  grounded  grid  triode  valid 
at  all  frequencies. 


admittance  and  impedance  relations  may  also  be  pointed  out.  For  example, 
the  input  short-circuit  driving-point  admittance  jSn  is  equal  for  grounded 
cathode  and  grounded  plate  operation  and  the  same  is  true  for  the  output 
short-circuit  driving-point  admittances  ^22  for  grounded  cathode  and 
grounded  grid  operation.  Moreover,  it  is  also  seen  that  the  input  short- 
circuit  driving-point  admittance  ^n  for  grounded  grid  operation  is  equal  to 
the  output  driving-point  admittance  1822  for  grounded  plate  operation.     A 


614 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


similar  set  of  reciprocal  relations  between  the  open-circuit  driving-point 
impedances  is  also  present. 

In  regard  to  the  networks  it  may  first  be  observed  that,  since  they  were 
derived  from  parameters  upon  which  no  restrictions  had  been  placed  on 
either  frequency  or  space  charge,  they  are  also  generally  valid.  In  passive 
circuit  theory  one  is  accustomed  to  the  use  of  only  the  three  basic  elements 


♦  D 


921 


^^^I 


u     -9'* 


(a) 


y2f 


y2i 


>^y22    y  11 922 


yn  y22 


0      I' 

Cn) 

l2      - 

1 

-v^+ 

l^' 

1       ,        921 
922       911  922 

"—I           yn 

I 

(b) 


1        y2i 

'       .^922  "911922 


KV, 


,   It 

(7^ 

h  . 

-W+ 

^ 

r 

{   ..                       .2       M 

!^- 

1   ^    y2i 
y22    yii  y22 

'v-L 
9ii 

I  +  ^^t!    922         9„922    1 

i 

>*  V                 '        /  Ji 

o 

(c) 


K=- 


yiiO+i) 


Fig.  21  (a,  b,  c) — Three  forms  of  equivalent  circuits  of  the  grounded  plate  triode  valid 
at  all  frequencies. 


of  resistance,  inductance  and  capacitance.  For  the  networks  now  under 
consideration  other  quantities  also  need  to  be  included.  However,  as 
normally  operated  there  is  usually  complete  space-charge  in  the  cathode-grid 
region  and  a  very  small  amount  of  space  charge  in  the  grid-plate  region. 
Under  such  circumstances  the  admittance  ^22  is  a  simple  capacitance  and  the 
amplification  factor  /i  is  a  real  number.  The  admittances  yn  and  ^21  ,  on 
the  other  hand,  do  not  allow  accepted  circuit  interpretation  to  be  made, 
except  in  the  range  of  moderately  low  frequencies  when  electron  transit 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


615 


time  is  taken  into  account  only  to  a  first  order  of  approximation.  It  is 
believed  that,  in  general,  these  admittances  should  be  considered  complete 
by  themselves  as  new  admittance  elements,  and,  as  already  remarked,  their 
values  in  magnitude  and  phase  may  be  found  in  the  paper  on  vacuum  tube 
networks  to  which  repeated  reference  has  been  made. 

As  a  further  property  of  the  networks,  consider  the  expressions  for  the 
jS's  in  Tables  I,  II  and  III.  It  is  observed  that  each  ^ij  of  a  set  of  jS's  con- 
tains a  common  term,  suggesting  that  the  networks  might  be  broken  up  into 
at  least  two  elementary  constituents.  The  same  observation  applies  to 
each  of  the  three  sets  of  Z's.  In  Table  I,  for  example,  it  is  seen  that  this 
constant  term  is  represented  by  y22/D.  The  network  of  Fig.  19a  can  thus 
be  thought  of  as  arising  from  the  superposition  of  two  networks,  one  of  which 
is  determined  by  the  parameters 


ft'  -  >'"  + 

yn 

&[. 

=  0 

r'        J"" 

0.1  =  -p 

0^ 

_     yn 

;  parameters 

q"  _  y^ 

^;; 

=: 

y22 
D 

f>"  _  :y22 

/322 

= 

_y22 

(25) 


(26) 


The  admittance  coefficients  given  by  (25)  correspond  to  the  perfectly  uni- 
lateral active  network  shown  in  Fig.  22a,  while  the  admittance  coefficients 
in  (26)  correspond  to  the  ''passive"  network  in  Fig.  22b.  The  two  element- 
ary constituents  thus  take  the  general  forms  of  these  networks.  It  should 
be  noticed  that  these  two  network  constituents  are  unrelated  to  the  fact 
that  the  total  current  entering  the  complete  network  is  the  sum  of  conduction 
and  displacement  current. 

Corresponding  to  the  Z's  other  elementary  constituents  are  obtained,  with 
general  forms  as  shown  on  Figs.  23a  and  23b. 

These  elementary  constituents  are  merely  reflections  of  certain  mathe- 
matical identities.  For  example,  the  networks  in  Fig.  22  depend  upon  the 
matrix  identity 


^11^12 

__ 

iSll  +  i3i2             0 

+ 

— /3i2^12 

0n0« 

^21  +  /3l2    ^22    —   ^12 

—^12^12 

(27) 


616 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


while  those  in  Fig.  23  depend  upon  a  corresponding  identity.  The  identity 
(27)  expresses  the  fact  that  the  general  ''jS-network"  can  be  considered  as 
arising  from  the  parallel  connections  of  the  two  networks  in  Fig.  24. 


y^ 

D 

'-\ 

1^' 

— 1 

yii-^yzi 

D 

yii 

MO 

1 

M^zz 


V, 


y22 

D 


(a) 


(b) 


Fig.  22  (a,  b) — Elementary  constituents  of  Fig.  19a. 
<      .      y2i_ 

22 


y22    yii  y22 


uii  yzz 


(a)  (b) 

Fig.  23  (a,  b) — Elementary  constituents  of  Fig.  19b. 


1^= 


,  It 

l2     . 

1 

(>9|2+/32t)V,| 


■/3i2 


(/3 

ll+/3l2) 

-(/322-y3l2) 

1^' 

i 

V2 


V, 


(a) 
Fig.  24  (a,  b) — Elementary  constituents  of  Fig.  8. 


(b) 


V2 


There  is  at  present  a  tendency  towards  grid  designs  of  very  fine  mesh. 
Such  a  grid  design  results  in  a  very  large  value  of  the  amplification  factor 
and,  for  many  purposes,  sufficient  accuracy  may  be  obtained  by  disregarding 

terms  containing  -  as  a  factor.     Under  these  conditions  the  network  for 

M 
grounded  cathode  operation  reduces  to  an  L-network,  that  for  grounded 
grid  operation  to  a  unilateral  network  transmitting  in  the  direction  from  grid 
to  plate  only,  while  the  cathode  follower  network  remains  essentially  un- 
changed. 


Table  IV 

Four-Pole  Parameters  for  Grounded  Cathode  Triode  in  the  Range  of 
Moderately  Low  Frequencies 


R              1 

(coCi)2 

f                      ,    .            ^Cif+C 

J 

Pn   —   5 

"[-K-*:')!'"-;!'*' 

5') 

(<oCi)2    1 

go      5/i     ^ 

''                1  i. 

G              1 

Pl2   — 

M  \                ^1     /J                            M  \ 

■*»;')] 

n 

,.   "■+...'■■ 

P22    — 

['-;(-';')  "-;(-';')] 

ft         \      O        ... 

go 

Pl2  +  P21   — 

-;('n:i') 

\                 ~l 

L            \              ^V 

X    -ii^2^ 

Table  V 

Four-Pole  Parameters  for  Grounded  Grid  Triode  in  the  Range  of 
Moderately  Low  Frequencies 


1  + 


1  + 


fti  = 


ft2    — 


1    + 


+  ^-c. 


MX  3  -Ti  /  /t  \        3  rci   / 


K'+3^^) 


+ 


1  + 

6  Ci 

10   a 


1   + 


1^ 

m4 


M\  3:^1    /, 


1  + 


K-5;') 


1    + 


1    + 


IXo 

1  /ia;i 


1  + 


li'-l'A 


fe 


/3l2    +    ^21     = 


go 


+    /./  ^-^+1^^' 


1     + 


1/  4X2     \ 

(l  +^~^) 

>x\         3xi    / 


K-^S')   i,^y(H!.);j 


.3  -F 

I  -  i—di     I xi 

30  11m 


1  + 


M\  3:*:i    /y 


ii« 


617 


618 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


In  the  foregoing,  the  behavior  of  an  active  four-pole  has  been  described 
either  in  terms  of  four-pole  parameters  or  in  terms  of  elements  of  an  equiva- 
lent circuit.  The  particular  four-pole  parameters,  which  are  of  customary- 
use  in  communication  engineering,  are  the  so-called  image  parameters,  but 
they  have  usually  been  used  only  in  connection  with  passive  four-poles. 
They  may,  however,  also  be  used  in  the  more  general  vacuum  tube  four-pole 
now  under  discussion,  but  whether  their  employment  would  be  of  practical 

Table  VI 

Four-Pole  Parameters  for  Grounded  Plate  Triode  in  the  Range  of 
Moderately  Low  Frequencies 

4 


1  (coCi)2 

5 


Ctf+  G 


^2    =    - 


+  io3 


1  +- 


1  (a)Ci)2 
5 


Cif 


I  •[-!(■  n^')j'^-K-i-:') 


Pn 


1  + 


1  + 


14- 


+  ^-G 


\         3xi  /  fi\         3«;i/ 


1  + 


1  X2 

—  F 
HXi 


m\        3xi  /_ 


1  + 


/3i2  -{■  /Sai  = 


^0 


1  + 


(-!?') 


X2 


11 

i—di 
30 


11m 


1  + 


'5"^* 


value  is  a  matter  which  engineering  experience  will  decide.  In  any  case 
their  use  would  be  limited  to  vacuum  tubes  in  which  appreciable  interaction 
between  input  and  output  terminals  is  present.  From  a  practical  standpoint 
this  means  that  their  usefulness  would  be  mainly  found  in  connection  with 
triodes. 


Triode  Networks  at  Moderately  Low  Frequencies 

The  networks  discussed  in  the  preceding  section  were  of  general  validity 
in  respect  to  both  operating  conditions  and  frequency  and  it  was  mentioned 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS  619 

that  the  efforts  of  trying  to  interpret  the  "passive"  parts  of  the  networks 
in  the  form  of  lumped  passive  circuit  elements  had,  in  general,  met  with  not 
too  much  success.  In  this  section  attention  will  be  given  to  the  range  of 
moderately  low  frequencies  where  usual  circuit  interpretation  is  possible. 
The  operating  conditions  are  assumed  to  be  the  usual  ones  with  complete 


Go 


CO 


1  (a>Ci)2  ^  ^  "^  M 


5  ' 


•   [-K'nl')]' 


4 


g"  =  - 


1  + 

((0Cl)2  1 


W  \         3  :»:i    / 


^\        3  a;i  / 


1  + 


"1  +  ^(1  +  ^%) 

H\  ?>Xi    J 

Fig.  25 — Equivalent  circuit  of  grounded  cathode  triode  at  moderately  high  frequencies. 

space  charge  in  the  cathode-grid  region,  and  negligible  space  charge  in  the 
grid-plate  region.  Also  it  will  be  assumed  that  the  grid  is  at  negative  d-c 
potential  with  respect  to  the  cathode. 

The  first  step  is  to  expand  the  /3  coefficients  in  series  with  transit  angles 
retained  only  to  first  or  possibly  to  second  orders.  As  the  detailed  computa- 
tions are  lengthy  only  the  final  result  will  be  given.  These  are  presented  in 
Tables  IV,  V  and  VI. 


620 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 
C" 


(y3,2+^2i)Vi| 


Go 


n\        3xi    / 


1  + 


a 

=  ro^' 

g" 

C" 

=  lc' 

M 

-6  +  r'^) 


1  + 


1 


M  \         3  xi   /  _ 


1  + 


5go 


'[-K-i:i')] 


C 


C2 


M  \  3  xi   / 

Fig.  26 — Equivalent  circuit  of  grounded  grid  triode  at  moderately  high  frequencies. 

In  these  tables  the  symbols  have  the  following  meanings: 
go  =  static  conductance  of  the  diode  formed  by  the  cathode  and  equivalent 

grid-plane, 
/i    =  low  frequency  amplification  factor. 
Xi  =  cathode-grid  distance  in  cm. 
X2  =  grid-anode  distance  in  cm. 

Ci  =  cold  capacitance  between  cathode  and  equivalent  grid  plane 
Ci  =  cold  capacitance  between  anode  and  equivalent  grid  plane. 
Gi  =  electron  transit  angle  between  cathode  and  equivalent  grid  plane. 

It  is  most  simply  calculated  from 

coCi 


h  =  2 


^0 


62  =  electron  transit  angle  between  anode  and  equivalent  grid  plane. 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS  OF  NETWORKS 


621 


Gcv. 


'^      C 


C" 


(y3,2+y320v 


9" 


po- 


1 


■oC 


J.'"  1, 

_r 


(coCl)2  1 


"'Hhm] 


■op 


a  =  Co 


1    /  4  OTo     \ 


1     + 


5go 


1 

+  - 


[-;(-';')] 


r"  =  -  Ti 


1  + 


1  + 


1  /  4  rro    \ 

M  \  3  xi   / 


C"  = 


6  Ci 


10 


M  \  3  Xi     / 


1  + 


1  + 


X2 

1  :*:i 


/i  \  3  .Ti     / 


10  0-2 

1    + )^1 

11  1101 

r""  = r, 

^  15^' 


1  /  4  :«:2    \ 

1+1  +7-/) 

Fig.  27 — Equivalent  circuit  of  grounded  plate  triode  at  moderately  high  frequencies. 


622  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

It  may  be  calculated  from 


V2v  (VVm  + 

where  v  =  10^  -  =  1.76  X  IQi^ 
m 

Vdi  =  equivalent  d-c  grid  potential 

Vd2  —  anode  d-c  potential 

^  _^  22  ^2  VV^i  +  2VV 


f    = 


k    = 


9  ^1  Vv^i  +  Vv_ 

__       VVm+VV^, 
VVni  +  2VV, 


m 


V  F^i  +  VVn2 

With  the  aid  of  these  tables  and  Fig.  8  the  equivalent  circuits  on  Figs.  25, 
26  and  27  are  obtained.  The  networks  are  all  of  the  resistance-capacity 
type.  It  may  be  noted  that,  in  some  of  the  branches,  negative  conductance 
or  negative  capacitance  appears.  However,  as  seen  from  the  external  tube 
terminals  they  are  swamped  by  corresponding  positive  elements. 

The  viewpoints  presented  in  this  paper  have  been  used  by  the  writer  over 
a  number  of  years.  They  have  been  given  experimental  application  by 
Mr.  J.  A.  Morton,  who  is  principally  responsible  for  their  introduction  and 
use  in  the  studies  in  these  Laboratories  of  electron  tubes  in  the  microwave 
regions. 

With  this,  our  investigation  comes  to  a  close.  Much  has  been  omitted, 
particularly  in  the  field  of  applications,  but  it  is  nevertheless  hoped  the  funda- 
mental approach,  as  well  as  the  networks  given,  may  prove  to  be  useful  in 
practical  applications.  The  questions  of  noise  and  of  optimum  noise  figure 
design  have  also  been  left  out  of  consideration.  Mr.  J.  A.  Morton  and  the 
writer  plan  to  discuss  these  problems  in  a  forthcoming  paper. 

The  writer  is  pleased  to  acknowledge  his  indebtedness  to  Messrs.  R.  K. 
Potter,  J.  A.  Morton,  and  R.  M.  Ryder,  who  have  encouraged  this  work 
and  urged  its  publication;  and  to  Mr.  W.  E.  Kirkpatrick  for  constructively 
critical  scrutiny  of  the  original  technical  memorandum. 


A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication 

By  C.  E.  SHANNON 

{Concluded  from  July  1948  issue) 

PART  III:  MATHEMATICAL  PRELIMINARIES 

In  this  final  installment  of  the  paper  we  consider  the  case  where  the 
signals  or  the  messages  or  both  are  continuously  variable,  in  contrast  with 
the  discrete  nature  assumed  until  now.  To  a  considerable  extent  the  con- 
tinuous case  can  be  obtained  through  a  limiting  process  from  the  discrete 
case  by  dividing  the  continuum  of  messages  and  signals  into  a  large  but  finite 
number  of  small  regions  and  calculating  the  various  parameters  involved  on 
a  discrete  basis.  As  the  size  of  the  regions  is  decreased  these  parameters  in 
general  approach  as  limits  the  proper  values  for  the  continuous  case.  There 
are,  however,  a  few  new  effects  that  appear  and  also  a  general  change  of 
emphasis  in  the  direction  of  specialization  of  the  general  results  to  particu- 
lar cases. 

We  will  not  attempt,  in  the  continuous  case,  to  obtain  our  results  with 
the  greatest  generality,  or  with  the  extreme  rigor  of  pure  mathematics,  since 
this  would  involve  a  great  deal  of  abstract  measure  theory  and  would  ob- 
scure the  main  thread  of  the  analysis.  A  preUminary  study,  however,  indi- 
cates that  the  theory  can  be  formulated  in  a  completely  axiomatic  and 
rigorous  manner  which  includes  both  the  continuous  and  discrete  cases  and 
many  others.  The  occasional  liberties  taken  with  limiting  processes  in  the 
present  analysis  can  be  justified  in  all  cases  of  practical  interest. 

18.  Sets  and  Ensembles  of  Functions 

We  shall  have  to  deal  in  the  continuous  case  with  sets  of  functions  and 
ensembles  of  functions.  A  set  of  functions,  as  the  name  implies,  is  merely  a 
class  or  collection  of  functions,  generally  of  one  variable,  time.  It  can  be 
specified  by  giving  an  explicit  representation  of  the  various  functions  in  the 
set,  or  implicitly  by  giving  a  property  which  functions  in  the  set  possess  and 
others  do  not.  Some  examples  are: 
1.  The  set  of  functions: 

/e(0  =  sin  {t  +  S). 

Each  particular  value  of  6  determines  a  particular  function  in  the  set. 

623 


624  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

2.  The  set  of  all  functions  of  time  containing  no  frequencies  over  W  cycles 
per  second. 

3.  The  set  of  all  functions  limited  in  band  to  W  and  in  amplitude  to  A. 

4.  The  set  of  all  English  speech  signals  as  functions  of  time. 

An  ensemble  of  functions  is  a  set  of  functions  together  with  a  probability 
measure  whereby  we  may  determine  the  probability  of  a  function  in  the 
set  having  certain  properties.-^     For  example  with  the  set, 

feit)  =  sin  (/  +  d), 

we  may  give  a  probability  distribution  for  6,  P{d).     The  set  then  becomes 
an  ensemble. 

Some  further  examples  of  ensembles  of  functions  are: 

1.  A  finite  set  of  functions /;b(/)  (k  =  1,  2,  ■  •  •  ,  n)  with  the  probability  of 
fk  being  pk . 

2.  A  finite  dimensional  family  of  functions 

/(ai  ,  a.2,  '  ■  '  ,an  ;t) 
with  a  probability  distribution  for  the  parameters  ai  : 

p{ai  ,  '  ■  ■  ,  an) 
For  example  we  could  consider  the  ensemble  defined  by 

n 

fidi  ,  ■  •  -  ,  an  ,  di  ,  •  •  •  ,  On  ',  t)  =  J2  fln  sin  n{cot  +  dn) 

n  =  l 

with  the  amplitudes  ai  distributed  normally  and  independently,  and  the 
phrases  di  distributed  uniformly  (from  0  to  27r)  and  independently. 

3.  The  ensemble 

r/        A         V^°°    sin  7r(21^/  -  n) 
n=-oo      7r{2Wt  —  n) 

with  the  di  normal  and  independent  all  with  the  same  standard  deviation 
\/N.  This  is  a  representation  of  "white"  noise,  band-limited  to  the  band 
from  0  to  W  cycles  per  second  and  with  average  power  N. 

^  In  mathematical  terminology  the  functions  belong  to  a  measure  space  whose  total 
measure  is  unity. 

2  This  representation  can  be  used  as  a  definition  of  band  limited  white  noise.  It  has 
certain  advantages  in  that  it  involves  fewer  limiting  operations  than  do  definitions  that 
have  been  used  in  the  past.  The  name  "white  noise,"  already  firmly  intrenched  in  the 
literature,  is  perhaps  somewhat  unfortunate.  In  optics  white  light  means  either  any 
continuous  spectrum  as  contrasted  with  a  point  spectrum,  or  a  spectrum  which  is  flat  with 
wavelength  (which  is  not  the  same  as  a  spectrum  flat  with  frequency) . 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  625 

4.  Let  points  be  distributed  on  the  /  axis  according  to  a  Poisson  distribu- 
tion. At  each  selected  point  the  function /(/)  is  placed  and  the  different 
functions  added,  giving  the  ensemble 

■11  fit  +  h) 

where  the  tk  are  the  points  of  the  Poisson  distribution.  This  ensemble 
can  be  considered  as  a  type  of  impulse  or  shot  noise  where  all  the  impulses 
are  identical. 

5.  The  set  of  English  speech  functions  with  the  probability  measure  given 
by  the  frequency  of  occurrence  in  ordinary  use. 

An  ensemble  of  functions  /„(/)  is  stationary  if  the  same  ensemble  results 
when  all  functions  are  shifted  any  fixed  amount  in  time.     The  ensemble 

fe{t)  =  sin  {t  +  e) 

is  stationary  if  B  distributed  uniformly  from  0  to  2ir.  If  we  shift  each  func- 
tion by  /i  we  obtain 

U{t  +  /i)  =  sin  (/  +  /i  -h  0) 

=  sin  (/  +  (p) 

with  ip  distributed  uniformly  from  0  to  2ir.  Each  function  has  changed 
but  the  ensemble  as  a  whole  is  invariant  under  the  translation.  The  other 
examples  given  above  are  also  stationary. 

An  ensemble  is  ergodic  if  it  is  stationary,  and  there  is  no  subset  of  the  func- 
tions in  the  set  with  a  probability  different  from  0  and  1  which  is  stationary. 
The  ensemble 

sin  (/  +  0) 

is  ergodic.  No  subset  of  these  functions  of  probability  t^O,  1  is  transformed 
into  itself  under  all  time  translations.     On  the  other  hand  the  ensemble 

a  sin  (/  -|-  6) 

with  a  distributed  normally  and  6  uniform  is  stationary  but  not  ergodic. 
The  subset  of  these  functions  with  a  between  0  and  1  for  example  is 
stationary. 

Of  the  examples  given,  3  and  4  are  ergodic,  and  5  may  perhaps  be  con- 
sidered so.  If  an  ensemble  is  ergodic  we  may  say  roughly  that  each  func- 
tion in  the  set  is  typical  of  the  ensemble.  More  precisely  it  is  known  that 
with  an  ergodic  ensemble  an  average  of  any  statistic  over  the  ensemble  is 
equal  (with  probability  1)  to  an  average  over  all  the  time  translations  of  a 


626  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

particular  function  in  the  set.^  Roughly  speaking,  each  function  can  be  ex- 
pected, as  time  progresses,  to  go  through,  with  the  proper  frequency,  all  the 
convolutions  of  any  of  the  functions  in  the  set. 

Just  as  we  may  perform  various  operations  on  numbers  or  functions  to 
obtain  new  numbers  or  functions,  we  can  perform  operations  on  ensembles 
to  obtain  new  ensembles.  Suppose,  for  example,  we  have  an  ensemble  of 
functions /a(0  and  an  operator  T  which  gives  for  each  function /«(/)  a  result 
g.(0: 

gc{l)  =  TUt) 

Probability  measure  is  defined  for  the  set  ga{l)  by  means  of  that  for  the  set 
Ja{t)'  The  probability  of  a  certain  subset  of  the  ga{t)  functions  is  equal 
to  that  of  the  subset  of  the  /«(/)  functions  which  produce  members  of  the 
given  subset  of  g  functions  under  the  operation  T.  Physically  this  corre- 
sponds to  passing  the  ensemble  through  some  device,  for  example,  a  filter, 
a  rectifier  or  a  modulator.  The  output  functions  of  the  device  form  the 
ensemble  ga{t). 

A  device  or  operator  T  will  be  called  invariant  if  shifting  the  input  merely 
shifts  the  output,  i.e.,  if 

gM)  =  TUt) 
implies 

gait  -F   h)    =    TUt  +   /l) 

for  all/a(0  and  all  h  .  It  is  easily  shown  (see  appendix  1)  that  if  T  is  in- 
variant and  the  input  ensemble  is  stationary  then  the  output  ensemble  is 
stationary.     Likewise  if  the  input  is  ergodic  the  output  will  also  be  ergodic. 

A  filter  or  a  rectifier  is  invariant  under  all  time  translations.  The  opera- 
tion of  modulation  is  not  since  the  carrier  phase  gives  a  certain  time  struc- 
ture. However,  modulation  is  invariant  under  all  translations  which  are 
multiples  of  the  period  of  the  carrier. 

Wiener  has  pointed  out  the  intimate  relation  between  the  invariance  of 
physical  devices  under  time  translations  and  Fourier  theory.      He  has 

3  This  is  the  famous  ergodic  theorem  or  rather  one  aspect  of  this  theorem  which  was 
proved  is  somewhat  different  formulations  by  Birkhoff,  von  Neumann,  and  Koopman,  and 
subsequently  generalized  by  Wiener,  Hopf,  Hurewicz  and  others.  The  literature  on  ergodic 
theory  is  quite  extensive  and  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  papers  of  these  writers  for  pre- 
cise and  general  formulations;  e.g.,  E.  Hopf  "Ergodentheorie"  Ergebnisse  der  Mathematic 
und  ihrer  Grenzgebiete,  Vol.  5,  "On  Causality  Statistics  and  Probability"  Journal  of 
Mathematics  and  Physics,  Vol.  XIII,  No.  1,  1934;  N.  Weiner  "The  Ergodic  Theorem" 
Duke  Mathematical  Journal,  Vol.  5,  1939. 

*  Communication  theory  is  heavily  indebted  to  Wiener  for  much  of  its  basic  philosophy 
and  theory.  His  classic  NDRC  report  "The  Interpolation,  Extrapolation,  and  Smoothing 
of  Stationary  Time  Series,"  to  appear  soon  in  book  form,  contains  the  first  clear-cut 
formulation  of  communication  theory  as  a  statistical  problem,  the  study  of  operations 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  627 

shown,  in  fact,  that  if  a  device  is  linear  as  well  as  invariant  Fourier  analysis 
is  then  the  appropriate  mathematical  tool  for  dealing  with  the  problem. 

An  ensemble  of  functions  is  the  appropriate  mathematical  representation 
of  the  messages  produced  by  a  continuous  source  (for  example  speech),  of 
the  signals  produced  by  a  transmitter,  and  of  the  perturbing  noise.  Com- 
munication theory  is  properly  concerned,  as  has  been  emphasized  by  Wiener, 
not  with  operations  on  particular  functions,  but  with  operations  on  en- 
sembles of  functions.  A  communication  system  is  designed  not  for  a  par- 
ticular speech  function  and  still  less  for  a  sine  wave,  but  for  the  ensemble  of 
speech  functions. 

19.  Band  Limited  En'sembles  of  Functions 

If  a  function  of  time  f{i)  is  limited  to  the  band  from  0  to  PF  cycles  per 
second  it  is  completely  determined  by  giving  its  ordinates  at  a  series  of  dis- 
crete points  spaced  — —  seconds  apart  in  the  manner  indicated  by  the  follow- 
ing result. 

Theorem  13:  Let  f{t)  contain  no  frequencies  over  W. 
Then 

-00  w{2Wt  —  n) 

where 

In  this  expansion  /(/)  is  represented  as  a  sum  of  orthogonal  functions. 
The  coefficients  Xn  of  the  various  terms  can  be  considered  as  coordinates  in 
an  infinite  dimensional  ''function  space."  In  this  space  each  function  cor- 
responds to  precisely  one  point  and  each  point  to  one  function. 

A  function  can  be  considered  to  be  substantially  limited  to  a  time  T  if  all 
the  ordinates  Xn  outside  this  interval  of  time  are  zero.  In  this  case  all  but 
2TW  of  the  coordinates  will  be  zero.  Thus  functions  limited  to  a  band  W 
and  duration  T  correspond  to  points  in  a  space  of  2TW  dimensions. 

A  subset  of  the  functions  of  band  IF  and  duration  T  corresponds  to  a  re- 
gion in  this  space.     For  example,  the  functions  whose  total  energy  is  less 

on  time  series.  This  work,  although  chiefly  concerned  with  the  linear  prediction  and 
filtering  problem,  is  an  important  collateral  reference  in  connection  with  the  present  paper. 
We  may  also  refer  here  to  Wiener's  forthcoming  book  "Cybernetics"  dealing  with  the 
general  problems  of  communication  and  control. 

^  For  a  proof  of  this  theorem  and  further  discussion  see  the  author's  paper  "Communi- 
cation in  the  Presence  of  Noise"  to  be  published  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Institute  of  Radio 
Engineers. 


628  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

than  or  equal  to  E  correspond  to  points  in  a  2TW  dimensional  sphere  with 
radius  r  =   \/2WE. 

An  ensemble  of  functions  of  limited  duration  and  band  will  be  represented 
by  a  probability  distribution  p{xi  •  •  •  Xn)  in  the  corresponding  n  dimensional 
space.  If  the  ensemble  is  not  limited  in  time  we  can  consider  the  2TW  co- 
ordinates in  a  given  interval  T  to  represent  substantially  the  part  of  the 
function  in  the  interval  T  and  the  probability  distribution  p(xi ,  •  ■  •  ,  Xn) 
to  give  the  statistical  structure  of  the  ensemble  for  intervals  of  that  duration. 

20.  Entropy  of  a  Continuous  Distribution 

The  entropy  of  a  discrete  set  of  probabilities  pi,  •  ■  ■  pn  has  been  defined  as : 

^  =  -Z^log^-. 

In  an  analogous  manner  we  define  the  entropy  of  a  continuous  distribution 
•with  the  density  distribution  function  p{x)  by: 

p(x)  log  p(x)  dx 

00 

With  an  n  dimensional  distribution  p{xi ,  •  •  •  ,  Xn)  we  have 

H   =    —  j     •  •  •      /    p(xi  -  '  ■  Xn)  log  p{xi  ,   "  •   ,Xn)  dX] 


dXr 


If  we  have  two  arguments  x  and  y  (which  may  themselves  be  multi-dimen- 
sional) the  joint  and  conditional  entropies  of  p(x,  y)  are  given  by 

H{x,  y)  =  -jj  p{x,  y)  log  p{x,  y)  dx  dy 


and 


where 


H.(y)  =  -fj  p{x,  y)  log  ^-^  dx  dy 
Hyix)  =  -fj  p{x,  y)  log  ^^  dx  dy 

p(x)  =  j  p(x,  y)  dy 

P(y)  =  j  P(x,  y)  dx. 

The  entropy  of  continuous  distributions  have  most  (but  not  all)  of  the 
properties  of  the  discrete  case.     In  particular  we  have  the  following: 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  629 

1.  If  a:  is  limited  to  a  certain  volume  v  in  its  space,  then  H{x)  is  a  maximum 
and  equal  to  log  v  when  p(x)  is  constant  (  -  )  in  the  volume. 

2.  With  any  two  variables  x,  y  we  have 

H{x,y)<H(x)  +  H(y) 

with  equality  if  (and  only  if)  x  and  y  are  independent,  i.e.,  p{x,  y)  =  p{x) 
p{y)  (apart  possibly  from  a  set  of  points  of  probability  zero). 

3.  Consider  a  generalized  averaging  operation  of  the  following  type: 


y'{y)  =  j  a{x,  y)p(x) 


.  ,  ^,,  .  ,  dx 
with 

/   a{x,  y)  dx  =    I  a{x,  y)  dy  =  1,  a(x,  y)  >  0. 

Then  the  entropy  of  the  averaged  distribution  p'{y)  is  equal  to  or  greater 
than  that  of  the  original  distribution  p{x). 

4.  We  have 

H(x,  y)  =  H{x)  +  H.{y)  =  H(y)  +  Hy{x) 
and 

H^iy)  <  H(y). 

5.  Let  p{x)  be  a  one-dimensional  distribution.  The  form  of  p(x)  giving  a 
maximum  entropy  subject  to  the  condition  that  the  standard  deviation 
of  X  be  fixed  at  o-  is  gaussian.     To  show  this  we  must  maximize 


H{x)  =  —  /  p{^)  log  p{x)  dx 


with 


o^  =    I  p{x)x  dx    and     1  =   /  p{x)  dx 

as  constraints.     This  requires,  by  the  calculus  of  variations,  maximizing 

I  [-p{x)  log  p{x)  +  \p{x)x'-  +  yLp{x)\  dx. 

The  condition  for  this  is 

-1  -\ogp{x)  +  \x^  +  n  =  0 
and  consequently  (adjusting  the  constants  to  satisfy  the  constraints) 

./^\  ^  -(x2/2(r2) 


630  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Similarly  in  n  dimensions,   suppose  the  second  order  moments  of 
p(xi ,  '  ■  ■  ,  Xn)  are  fixed  at  A  ij  : 

Aij   =     I     •  •  •    j    XiXjpixi  ,   ■  '  ■   ,Xn)  dXi   '"    dXn. 

Then  the  maximum  entropy  occurs  (by  a  similar  calculation)  when 
p{xi ,  ' ' '  ,  Xn)  is  the  n  dimensional  gaussian  distribution  with  the  second 
order  moments  A  ij . 

6.  The  entropy  of  a  one-dimensional  gaussian  distribution  whose  standard 
deviation  is  cr  is  given  by 

Hix)  =  log  \/2ire(T. 

This  is  calculated  as  follows:  , 

-log  p{x)  =  log  V27ro-  +  ;^ 
H{x)  =  —  j  p(x)  log  p{x)  dx 

=  j  p(x)  log  \/2^adx  +  j  p{x)  1^2  d^ 

2 

=  log  V2i(T  +  ^2 

=  log  \/2ir(r  +  log  \/e 

=  log  -s/lirea. 

Similarly  the  n  dimensional  gaussian  distribution  with  associated 
quadratic  form  aij  is  given  by 

p{x,,---,  x„)  =  I0i^  exp  (-  JSayJ^.X,) 

and  the  entropy  can  be  calculated  as 

ff  =  log(2«r'^|a«|' 

where  |  aij  \  is  the  determinant  whose  elements  are  aij . 

7.  If  X  is  limited  to  a  half  line  (p(x)  =  0  for  x  <  0)  and  the  first  moment  of 
X  is  fixed  at  a: 


=   /     p{x)x  dXj 
Jo 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  631 

then  the  maximum  entropy  occurs  when 

P\x)  =  -  e 
a 

and  is  equal  to  log  ea. 

8.  There  is  one  important  difference  between  the  continuous  and  discrete 
entropies.  In  the  discrete  case  the  entropy  measures  in  an  absolute 
way  the  randomness  of  the  chance  variable.  In  the  continuous  case  the 
measurement  is  relative  to  the  coordinate  system.  If  we  change  coordinates 
the  entropy  will  in  general  change.  In  fact  if  we  change  to  coordinates 
>'i  •  •  •  jn  the  new  entropy  is  given  by 

H{y)  =  j   ■  -     j  p{xi  •  •  •  Xn)J  l-j  log  p{xi  ■  ■  •  Xn)J  (-)  dji  -  •  ■  dyn 

where  7  f  -  j  is  the  Jacobian  of  the  coordinate  transformation.  On  ex- 
panding the  logarithm  and  changing  variables  to  Xi  -  -  -  Xn  ,  we  obtain: 

H(y)  =  H(x)  -  j   •  '  •  j  P(^i ,  -■  ,Xn)logJ  l-j  dxi-"  dxn  . 

Thus  the  new  entropy  is  the  old  entropy  less  the  expected  logarithm  of 
the  Jacobian.  In  the  continuous  case  the  entropy  can  be  considered  a 
measure  of  randomness  relative  to  an  assumed  standard,  namely  the  co- 
ordinate system  chosen  with  each  small  volume  element  dxi  •  •  •  dXn  given 
equal  weight.  When  we  change  the  coordinate  system  the  entropy  in 
the  new  system  measures  the  randomness  when  equal  volume  elements 
dyi  •  •  •  dyn  in  the  new  system  are  given  equal  weight. 

In  spite  of  this  dependence  on  the  coordinate  system  the  entropy 
concept  is  as  important  in  the  continuous  case  as  the  discrete  case.  This 
is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  derived  concepts  of  information  rate  and 
channel  capacity  depend  on  the  difference  of  two  entropies  and  this 
difference  does  not  depend  on  the  coordinate  frame,  each  of  the  two  terms 
being  changed  by  the  same  amount. 

The  entropy  of  a  continuous  distribution  can  be  negative.  The  scale 
of  measurements  sets  an  arbitrary  zero  corresponding  to  a  uniform  dis- 
tribution over  a  unit  volume.  A  distribution  which  is  more  confined  than 
this  has  less  entropy  and  will  be  negative.  The  rates  and  capacities  will, 
however,  always  be  non-negative. 

9.  A  particular  case  of  changing  coordinates  is  the  linear  transformation 


632  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

0 

In  this  case  the  Jacobian  is  simply  the  determinant  |  aij  \~^  and 

H{y)  =  H{x)  +  log  I  a,,-  \ . 

In  the  case  of  a  rotation  of  coordinates  (or  any  measure  preserving  trans- 
formation) 7=1  and  H(y)  =  H(x). 

21.  Entropy  of  an  Ensemble  of  Functions 

Consider  an  ergodic  ensemble  of  functions  limited  to  a  certain  band  of 
width  W  cycles  per  second.     Let 

p(Xi  '"   Xn) 

be  the  density  distribution  function  for  amplitudes  xi  -  •  -  XnSit  n  successive 
sample  points.  We  define  the  entropy  of  the  ensemble  per  degree  of  free- 
dom by 

H'  =  — Lim  -  /   •  •  •    /  p{xi ' ' '  Xn)  log  p(xi ,  -  •  •  ,  Xn)  dxi-  -  ■  dxn  . 

We  may  also  define  an  entropy  H  per  second  by  dividing,  not  by  n,  but  by 
the  time  T  in  seconds  for  n  samples.     Since  n  =  2TW,  H'  =  2WH. 
With  white  thermal  noise  p  is  gaussian  and  we  have 

H'  =  log  \^2TreN, 

H  =W\og  2weN. 

For  a  given  average  power  N,  white  noise  has  the  maximum  possible 
entropy.  This  follows  from  the  maximizing  properties  of  the  Gaussian 
distribution  noted  above. 

The  entropy  for  a  continuous  stochastic  process  has  many  properties 
analogous  to  that  for  discrete  processes.  In  the  discrete  case  the  entropy 
was  related  to  the  logarithm  of  the  probability  of  long  sequences,  and  to  the 
number  of  reasonably  probable  sequences  of  long  length.  In  the  continuous 
case  it  is  related  in  a  similar  fashion  to  the  logarithm  of  the  probability 
density  for  a  long  series  of  samples,  and  the  volume  of  reasonably  high  prob- 
ability in  the  function  space. 

More  precisely,  if  we  assume  p(xi  ■  ■  -  Xn)  continuous  in  all  the  Xi  for  all  n, 
then  for  sufficiently  large  n 


log^  _  H' 


<   € 


for  all  choices  of  (xi ,  •  •  •  ,  Xn)  apart  from  a  set  whose  total  probability  is 
less  than  5,  with  5  and  e  arbitrarily  small.  This  follows  from  the  ergodic 
property  if  we  divide  the  space  into  a  large  number  of  small  cells. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  .OF  COMMUNICATION  633 

The  relation  of  H  to  volume  can  be  stated  as  follows:  Under  the  same  as- 
sumptions consider  the  n  dimensional  space  corresponding  to  p(xi ,  •  •  •  ,  Xn). 
Let  Vn(q)  be  the  smallest  volume  in  this  space  which  includes  in  its  interior 
a  total  probability  q.     Then 

n—*co  W 

provided  q  does  not  equal  0  or  1. 

These  results  show  that  for  large  n  there  is  a  rather  well-defined  volume  (at 
least  in  the  logarithmic  sense)  of  high  probability,  and  that  within  this 
volume  the  probability  density  is  relatively  uniform  (again  in  the  logarithmic 
sense). 

In  the  white  noise  case  the  distribution  function  is  given  by 

Since  this  depends  only  on  2x<  the  surfaces  of  equal  probability  density 
are  spheres  and  the  entire  distribution  has  spherical  symmetry.  The  region 
of  high  probability  is  a  sphere  of  radius  y/nN.     As  w  -^  <»  the  probability 


1 


of  being  outside  a  sphere  of  radius  ■\/n{N  +  e)  approaches  zero  and  -  times 

71 

the  logarithm  of  the  volume  of  the  sphere  approaches  log  ^/lireN. 

In  the  continuous  case  it  is  convenient  to  work  not  with  the  entropy  H  of 
an  ensemble  but  with  a  derived  quantity  which  we  will  call  the  entropy 
power.  This  is  defined  as  the  power  in  a  white  noise  limited  to  the  same 
band  as  the  original  ensemble  and  having  the  same  entropy.  In  other  words 
if  H'  is  the  entropy  of  an  ensemble  its  entropy  power  is 

iVi  =  ^^  exp  2H'. 

In  the  geometrical  picture  this  amounts  to  measuring  the  high  probability 
volume  by  the  squared  radius  of  a  sphere  having  the  same  volume.  Since 
white  noise  has  the  maximum  entropy  for  a  given  power,  the  entropy  power 
of  any  noise  is  less  than  or  equal  to  its  actual  power. 

21.  Entropy  Loss  in  Linear  Filters 

Theorem  14:  If  an  ensemble  having  an  entropy  Hi  per  degree  of  freedom 
in  band  W  is  passed  through  a  filter  with  characteristic  Y{f)  the  output 
ensemble  has  an  entropy 


H.  =  ff.  +  i/  iog|F(/)r<f/. 


634 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


The  operation  of  the  filter  is  essentially  a  linear  transformation  of  co- 
ordinates. If  we  think  of  the  different  frequency  components  as  the  original 
coordinate  system,  the  new  frequency  components  are  merely  the  old  ones 
multiplied  by  factors.     The  coordinate  transformation  matrix  is  thus  es- 


TABLE  I 


GAIN 

ENTROPY 
POWER 
FACTOR 

ENTROPY 
POWER   GAIN 
IN    DECIBELS 

IMPULSE     RESPONSE 

1 
1      r.t                 -t^ 

\ 

1 

e2 

-8.68 

SIN^Ft 

(;rt)2 

0 

CO             1 

\-CO^- 

1 

--> 

\ 

(ir 

-5.32 

^[siNt           cost! 
1.13                  t2       J 

0 

CO              1 

\-(D^- 

1 

■  — > 

^ 

0.384 

-4.15 

[cOSt-l       cost    ,    SINtI 
L        t^                2t2      ■      t^    J 

0 

CO              1 

1 

— >■ 

r^ 

(if 

-2.66 

2             t 

■Vl-6;2- 

0 

Ct)               1 

1 
e2a 

-8.68  0' 

—73-   cos  (i-dr)t- cost 
6rt2  L                           J 

hAl 

0 

Q)                1 

sentially  diagonalized  in  terms  of  these  coordinates.     The  Jacobian  of  the 
transformation  is  (for  n  sine  and  n  cosine  components) 


/  =  n  I  Yiu) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  635 

where  the  fi  are  equally  spaced  through  the  band  W.     This  becomes  in 
the  Hmit 


expl£log|F(/)fd/. 


Since  J  is  constant  its  average  value  is  this  same  quantity  and  applying  the 
theorem  on  the  change  of  entropy  with  a  change  of  coordinates,  the  result 
follovvs.  We  may  also  phrase  it  in  terms  of  the  entropy  power.  Thus  if 
the  entropy  power  of  the  first  ensemble  is  Ni  that  of  the  second  is 


iV,expi/^log|F(/)frf/. 


The  final  entropy  power  is  the  initial  entropy  power  multiplied  by  the  geo- 
metric mean  gain  of  the  filter.  If  the  gain  is  measured  in  db,  then  the 
output  entropy  power  will  be  increased  by  the  arithmetic  mean  db  gain 
over  W. 

In  Table  I  the  entropy  power  loss  has  been  calculated  (and  also  expressed 
in  db)  for  a  number  of  ideal  gain  characteristics.  The  impulsive  responses 
of  these  filters  are  also  given  for  W  =  It,  with  phase  assumed  to  be  0. 

The  entropy  loss  for  many  other  cases  can  be  obtained  from  these  results. 

For  example  the  entropy  power  factor  —  for  the  first  case  also  applies  to  any 

gain  characteristic  obtained  from  1  —  w  by  a  measure  preserving  transforma- 
tion of  the  CO  axis.  In  particular  a  linearly  increasing  gain  G(aj)  =  co,  or  a 
''saw  tooth"  characteristic  between  0  and  1  have  the  same  entropy  loss. 

The  reciprocal  gain  has  the  reciprocal  factor.     Thus  -  has  the  factor  e^. 

Raising  the  gain  to  any  power  raises  the  factor  to  this  power. 

22.  Entropy  or  the  Sum  of  Two  Ensembles 

If  we  have  two  ensembles  of  functions /«(/)  and  g^{t)  we  can  form  a  new 
ensemble  by  "addition."  Suppose  the  first  ensemble  has  the  probability 
density  function  p(xi ,  -  •  ■  ,  Xn)  and  the  second  q{xi ,  •  •  •  ,  Xn).  Then  the 
density  function  for  the  sum  is  given  by  the  convolution: 

r{xi ,  .  .  .  ,  a;„)  =  j    •  •  •  j  p{yi ,  •  •  •  ,  y„) 

•  q{xi  —  Ji,  •■  ■  ,Xn  —  Jn)  dyi,dy2,  "  ■  ,dyn. 

Physically  this  corresponds  to  adding  the  noises  or  signals  represented  by 
the  original  ensembles  of  functions. 


636  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  following  result  is  derived  in  Appendix  6. 

Theorem  15:  Let  the  average  power  of  two  ensembles  be  Ni  and  iV2  and 
let  their  entropy  powers  be  Ni  and  Ni .  Then  the  entropy  power  of  the 
sum,  Nz ,  is  bounded  by 

Ni  +  N2<  Nz<Ni-{-  N2. 

White  Gaussian  noise  has  the  peculiar  property  that  it  can  absorb  any 
other  noise  or  signal  ensemble  which  may  be  added  to  it  with  a  resultant 
entropy  power  approximately  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  white  noise  power  and 
the  signal  power  (measured  from  the  average  signal  value,  which  is  normally 
zero),  provided  the  signal  power  is  small,  in  a  certain  sense,  compared  to 
the  noise. 

Consider  the  function  space  associated  with  these  ensembles  having  n 
dimensions.  The  white  noise  corresponds  to  a  spherical  Gaussian  distribu- 
tion in  this  space.  The  signal  ensemble  corresponds  to  another  probability 
distribution,  not  necessarily  Gaussian  or  spherical.  Let  the  second  moments 
of  this  distribution  about  its  center  of  gravity  be  aij .  That  is,  if 
p{xi  J  •  • '  y  Xn)  is  the  density  distribution  function 

aij   =/•••/    P(^i   ~  ^i)(^3   —   «j)  dXi,   "  '  ,  dxn 

where  the  ai  are  the  coordinates  of  the  center  of  gravity.  Now  aij  is  a  posi- 
tive definite  quadratic  form,  and  we  can  rotate  our  coordinate  system  to 
align  it  with  the  principal  directions  of  this  form,  aij  is  then  reduced  to 
diagonal  fonn  ba  .  We  require  that  each  bu  be  small  compared  to  N,  the 
squared  radius  of  the  spherical  distribution. 

In  this  case  the  convolution  of  the  noise  and  signal  produce  a  Gaussian 
distribution  whose  corresponding  quadratic  form  is 

N  -t-  bu . 

The  entropy  power  of  this  distribution  is 

[n(iV-FMr 

or  approximately 

=  [(NT  +  iibiiiNr-']'^'' 

^  N  +  -i:bii. 

n 
The  last  term  is  the  signal  power,  while  the  first  is  the  noise  power. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  637 

PART  IV:  THE  CONTINUOUS  CHANNEL 

23.  The  Capacity  of  a  Continuous  Channel 

In  a  continuous  channel  the  input  or  transmitted  signals  will  be  con- 
tinuous functions  of  time/(/)  belonging  to  a  certain  set,  and  the  output  or 
received  signals  will  be  perturbed  versions  of  these.  We  will  consider  only 
the  case  where  both  transmitted  and  received  signals  are  limited  to  a  certain 
band  W.  They  can  then  be  specified,  for  a  time  T,  by  2TW  numbers,  and 
their  statistical  structure  by  finite  dimensional  distribution  functions. 
Thus  the  statistics  of  the  transmitted  signal  will  be  determined  by 

P(xi ,  . . .  ,  r^,)  =  P(x) 

and  those  of  the  noise  by  the  conditional  probability  distribution 

^xi...,r«(yi,  " '  ,yn)  =  Pxiy). 

The  rate  of  transmission  of  information  for  a  continuous  channel  is  defined 
in  a  way  analogous  to  that  for  a  discrete  channel,  namely 

R  =  H{x)  -  Hy{x) 

where  H(x)  is  the  entropy  of  the  input  and  Hy{x)  the  equivocation.  The 
channel  capacity  C  is  defined  as  the  maximum  of  R  when  we  vary  the  input 
over  all  possible  ensembles.  This  means  that  in  a  finite  dimensional  ap- 
proximation we  must  vary  P(x)  =  P{xi ,  •  •  •  ,  Xn)  and  maximize 

-  j  P{x)  log  P{x)  dx  +  jj  P(x,  y)  log  ^^  dx  dy. 
This  can  be  written 


// 


"••''"^mpff,'-'' 


using  the  fact  that  j  j  P(x,  y)  log  Pix)  dx  dy  =  j  P(x)  log  P(x)  dx.  The 
channel  capacity  is  thus  expressed 

C  =  Lim  Max  i  f  [ Pix,  y)  log  ^' f^  dx  dy. 
T-*oo  p{x)   T  J  J  °  P{x)P{y) 

It  is  obvious  in  this  form  that  R  and  C  are  independent  of  the  coordinate 

^(^,  y) 

system  since  the  numerator  and  denominator  in  log  „,  ^  „.  .  will  be  multi- 

^  *=  P{x)P{y) 

plied  by  the  same  factors  when  x  and  y  are  transformed  in  any  one  to  one 
way.  This  integral  expression  for  C  is  more  general  than  H(x)  —  Hy{x). 
Properly  interpreted  (see  Appendix  7)  it  will  always  exist  while  H{x)  —  Hy(x) 


638  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

may  assume  an  indeterminate  form  co  —  oo  in  some  cases.  This  occurs,  for 
example,  if  x  is  limited  to  a  surface  of  fewer  dimensions  than  n  in  its  n  dimen- 
sional approximation. 

If  the  logarithmic  base  used  in  computing  F(x)  and  Hy{x)  is  two  then  C 
is  the  maximum  number  of  binary  digits  that  can  be  sent  per  second  over  the 
channel  with  arbitrarily  small  equivocation,  just  as  in  the  discrete  case. 
This  can  be  seen  physically  by  dividing  the  space  of  signals  into  a  large  num- 
ber of  small  cells,  sufficiently  small  so  that  the  probability  density  Px{y) 
of  signal  x  being  perturbed  to  point  y  is  substantially  constant  over  a  cell 
(either  of  xox  y).  If  the  cells  are  considered  as  distinct  points  the  situation 
is  essentially  the  same  as  a  discrete  channel  and  the  proofs  used  there  will 
apply.  But  it  is  clear  physically  that  this  quantizing  of  the  volume  into 
individual  points  cannot  in  any  practical  situation  alter  the  final  answer 
significantly,  provided  the  regions  are  sufficiently  small.  Thus  the  capacity 
will  be  the  limit  of  the  capacities  for  the  discrete  subdivisions  and  this  is 
just  the  continuous  capacity  defined  above. 

On  the  mathematical  side  it  can  be  shown  first  (see  Appendix  7)  that  if  u 
is  the  message,  x  is  the  signal,  y  is  the  received  signal  (perturbed  by  noise) 
and  V  the  recovered  message  then  f 

H{x)  -  Hy{x)  >  H(u)  -  H,(u) 

regardless  of  what  operations  are  performed  on  u  to  obtain  x  or  on  y  to  obtain 
V.  Thus  no  matter  how  we  encode  the  binary  digits  to  obtain  the  signal,  or 
how  we  decode  the  received  signal  to  recover  the  message,  the  discrete  rate 
for  the  binary  digits  does  not  exceed  the  channel  capacity  we  have  defined. 
On  the  other  hand,  it  is  possible  under  very  general  conditions  to  find  a 
coding  system  for  transmitting  binary  digits  at  the  rate  C  with  as  small  an 
equivocation  or  frequency  of  errors  as  desired.  This  is  true,  for  example,  if, 
when  we  take  a  finite  dimensional  approximating  space  for  the  signal  func- 
tions, P{x,  y)  is  continuous  in  both  x  and  y  except  at  a  set  of  points  of  prob- 
ability zero. 

An  important  special  case  occurs  when  the  noise  is  added  to  the  signal 
and  is  independent  of  it  (in  the  probability  sense).  Then  Px{y)  is  a  function 
only  of  the  difference  n  =  {y  —  x), 

Pziy)  =  Qiy  -  oc) 

and  we  can  assign  a  definite  entropy  to  the  noise  (independent  of  the  sta- 
tistics of  the  signal),  namely  the  entropy  of  the  distribution  Q(n).  This 
entropy  will  be  denoted  by  H{n). 

Theorem  16:  If  the  signal  and  noise  are  independent  and  the  received 
signal  is  the  sum  of  the  transmitted  signal  and  the  noise  then  the  rate  of 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  630 

transmission  is 

R  =  H{y)  -  H{n) 

i.e.,  the  entropy  of  the  received  signal  less  the  entropy  of  the  noise.     The 
channel  capacity  is 

C  =  M2.xH{y)  -  H(n). 

Fix) 

We  have,  since  y  =  x  -\-  n: 

H(x,  y)  =  H{x,  n). 
Expanding  the  left  side  and  using  the  fact  that  x  and  n  are  independeiA 

H{y)  +  Hy{x)  =  H(x)  +  H{n). 
Hence 

R  =  H{x)  -  Hy{x)  =  H(y)  -  H{n). 

Since  H{n)  is  independent  of  P{x),  maximizing  R  requires  maximizing 
H{y),  the  entropy  of  the  received  signal.  If  there  are  certain  constraints  on 
the  ensemble  of  transmitted  signals,  the  entropy  of  the  received  signal  must 
be  maximized  subject  to  these  constraints. 

24.  Channel  Capacity  with  an  Average  Power  Limitation 

A  simple  application  of  Theorem  16  is  the  case  where  the  noise  is  a  white 
thermal  noise  and  the  transmitted  signals  are  limited  to  a  certain  average 
power  P.  Then  the  received  signals  have  an  average  power  P  -\-  N  where 
N  is  the  average  noise  power.  The  maximum  entropy  for  the  received  sig- 
nals occurs  when  they  also  form  a  white  noise  ensemble  since  this  is  the 
greatest  possible  entropy  for  a  power  P  -\-  N  and  can  be  obtained  by  a 
suitable  choice  of  the  ensemble  of  transmitted  signals,  namely  if  they  form  a 
white  noise  ensemble  of  power  P.  The  entropy  (per  second)  of  the  re- 
ceived ensemble  is  then 

H{y)  =  W  log  lireiP  +  N), 

and  the  noise  entropy  is 

H{n)  =  W  log  lireN. 
The  channel  capacity  is 

P  -\-  N 


C  =  H(y)  -  H{n)  =  W  log 


N 


Summarizing  we  have  the  following: 

Theorem  17:  The  capacity  of  a  channel  of  band  W  perturbed  by  white 


640  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

thermal  noise  of  power  N  when  the  average  transmitter  power  is  P  is  given  by 

C  =  W  log      ^      . 

This  means  of  course  that  by  sufficiently  involved  encoding  systems  we 

P  +  N 
can  transmit  binary  digits  at  the  rate  W  log2  — — —  bits  per  second,  with 

arbitrarily  small  frequency  of  errors.  It  is  not  possible  to  transmit  at  a 
higher  rate  by  any  encoding  system  without  a  definite  positive  frequency  of 
errors. 

^  To  Approximate  this  limiting  rate  of  transmission  the  transmitted  signals 
must  approximate,  in  statistical  properties,  a  white  noise.  A  system  which 
approaches  the  ideal  rate  may  be  described  as  follows:  Let  M  =  2^  samples 
of  white  noise  be  constructed  each  of  duration  T.  These  are  assigned 
binary  numbers  from  0  to  (M  —  1).  At  the  transmitter  the  message  se- 
quences are  broken  up  into  groups  of  ^  and  for  each  group  the  corresponding 
noise  sample  is  transmitted  as  the  signal.  At  the  receiver  the  M  samples  are 
known  and  the  actual  received  signal  (perturbed  by  noise)  is  compared  with 
each  of  them.  The  sample  which  has  the  least  R .M  .S .  discrepancy  from  the 
received  signal  is  chosen  as  the  transmitted  signal  and  the  corresponding 
binary  number  reconstructed.  This  process  amounts  to  choosing  the  most 
probable  {a  posteriori)  signal.  The  number  M  of  noise  samples  used  will 
depend  on  the  tolerable  frequency  e  of  errors,  but  for  almost  all  selections  of 
samples  we  have 

^ .     ^ .     log  M{e,  T)       ,,,,      P+  N 
Lmi  Lun    .^      '  '        =  W  log  — i-—  , 

SO  that  no  matter  how  small  e  is  chosen,  we  can,  by  taking  T  sufficiently 

P  4-  N 
large,  transmit  as  near  as  we  wish  to  TW  log  — ~ —  binary  digits  in  the 

time  T. 

P  A-  N 
Formulas  similar  to  C  =  W  log  — ^^ —  for  the  white  noise  case  have 

been  developed  independently  by  several  other  writers,  although  with  some- 
what different  interpretations.  We  may  mention  the  work  of  N.  Wiener, 
W.  G.  TuUer,  and  H.  Sullivan  in  this  connection. 

In  the  case  of  an  arbitrary  perturbing  noise  (not  necessarily  white  thermal 
noise)  it  does  not  appear  that  the  maximizing  problem  involved  in  deter- 

•This  and  other  properties  of  the  white  noise  case  are  discussed  from  the  geometrical 
point  of  view  in  "Communication  in  the  Presence  of  Noise,"  loc.  cit. 
7  "Cybernetics,"  loc.  cit. 
•Sc.  D.  thesis,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  M.I.T.,  1948. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  641 

mining  the  channel  capacity  C  can  be  solved  explicitly.  However,  upper 
and  lower  bounds  can  be  set  for  C  in  terms  of  the  average  noise  power  N 
and  the  noise  entropy  power  Ni .  These  bounds  are  sufficiently  close  to- 
gether in  most  practical  cases  to  furnish  a  satisfactory  solution  to  the 
problem. 

Theorem  18:  The  capacity  of  a  channel  of  band  W  perturbed  by  an  arbi- 
trary noise  is  bounded  by  the  inequalities 

log     .^^       <C  <W\og      ^^ 

where 

P    =  average  transmitter  power 

N  =  average  noise  power 

Ni  =  entropy  power  of  the  noise. 

Here  again  the  average  power  of  the  perturbed  signals  will  be  P  +  iV. 
The  maximum  entropy  for  this  power  would  occur  if  the  received  signal 
were  white  noise  and  would  be  W  log  IweiP  +  iV).  It  may  not  be  possible 
to  achieve  this;  i.e.  there  may  not  be  any  ensemble  of  transmitted  signals 
which,  added  to  the  perturbing  noise,  produce  a  white  thermal  noise  at  the 
receiver,  but  at  least  this  sets  an  upper  bound  to  H{y).     We  have,  therefore 

C  =  max  H(y)  -  H(n) 

<  W  log  2Tre{P  -\-  N)  -  W  log  IweNi . 

This  is  the  upper  limit  given  in  the  theorem.  The  lower  limit  can  be  ob- 
tained by  considering  the  rate  if  we  make  the  transmitted  signal  a  white 
noise,  of  power  P.  In  this  case  the  entropy  power  of  the  received  signal 
must  be  at  least  as  great  as  that  of  a  white  noise  of  power  P  +  TVi  since  we 
have  shown  in  a  previous  theorem  that  the  entropy  power  of  the  sum  of  two 
ensembles  is  greater  than  or  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  individual  entropy 
powers.     Hence 

max  Hiy)  >  W  log  27re{P  +  Ni) 

and 

C  >Wlog  iTciP  -\-  Ni)  -  W  log  lireNi 

P  +  iVi 


T^log 


Ni 


As  P  increases,  the  upper  and  lower  bounds  approach  each  other,  so  we 
have  as  an  asymptotic  rate 

w  1      ^  +  ^ 
TFlog-^^ 


642  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

If  the  noise  is  itself  white,  N  =  Ni  and  the  result  reduces  to  the  formula 
proved  previously: 


C  =  IF  log 


h^y 


If  the  noise  is  Gaussian  but  with  a  spectrum  which  is  not  necessarily  flat, 
Ni  is  the  geometric  mean  of  the  noise  power  over  the  various  frequencies  in 
the  band  W.     Thus 


N,  =  exp^j Jog  N{f)df 


where  N{f)  is  the  noise  power  at  frequency/. 

Theorem  19:  If  we  set  the  capacity  for  a  given  transmitter  power  P 
equal  to 

C  =  IF  log — 

then  7]  is  monotonic  decreasing  as  P  increases  and  approaches  0  as  a  limit. 
Suppose  that  for  a  given  power  Pi  the  channel  capacity  is 

Pi  +  iV  -  771 


W\og 


Ni 


This  means  that  the  best  signal  distribution,  say  p{x),  when  added  to  the 
noise  distribution  q{x),  gives  a  received  distribution  r(y)  whose  entropy 
power  is  (Pi  +  iV  —  r;i).  Let  us  increase  the  power  to  Pi  +  AP  by  adding 
a  white  noise  of  power  AP  to  the  signal.  The  entropy  of  the  received  signal 
is  now  at  least 

H{y)  =   W  log  2re(Pi  +  iV  -  ^i  +  AP) 

by  application  of  the  theorem  on  the  minimum  entropy  power  of  a  sum. 
Hence,  since  we  can  attain  the  H  indicated,  the  entropy  of  the  maximizing 
distribution  must  be  at  least  as  great  and  r;  must  be  monotonic  decreasing. 
To  show  that  t?  -^  0  as  P  — >  oo  consider  a  signal  which  is  a  white  noise  with 
a  large  P.  Whatever  the  perturbing  noise,  the  received  signal  will  be 
approximately  a  white  noise,  if  P  is  sufficiently  large,  in  the  sense  of  having 
an  entropy  power  approaching  P  -\-  N. 

25.  The  Channel  Capacity  with  a  Peak  Power  Limitation 

In  some  applications  the  transmitter  is  limited  not  by  the  average  power 
output  but  by  the  peak  instantaneous  power.  The  problem  of  calculating 
the  channel  capacity  is  then  that  of  maximizing  (by  variation  of  the  ensemble 
of  transmitted  symbols) 

Iliy)  -  H(n) 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  643 

subject  to  the  constraint  that  all  the  functions /(/)  in  the  ensemble  be  less 

than  or  equal  to  \/S,  say,  for  all  /.     A  constraint  of  this  type  does  not  work 

out  as  well  mathematically  as  the  average  power  limitation.     The  most  we 

S 
have  obtained  for  this  case  is  a  lower  bound  valid  for  all  — ,  an  "asymptotic" 

/      .  S\  .  S 

upper  band  (  valid  for  large  —  1  and  an  asymptotic  value  of  C  for   -  small. 

Theorem  20:  The  channel  capacity  C  for  a  band  W  perturbed  by  white 
thermal  noise  of  power  N  is  bounded  by 

s 

where  S  is  the  peak  allowed  transmitter  power.     For  sufficiently  large  — 

-  S  +  N 
C  <W\og'^^ (l  +  e) 

where  e  is  arbitrarily  small.     As  -  ^  0  (and  provided  the  band  W  starts 
at  0) 

C-^T^log(l  +  |). 

S 
We  wish  to  maximize  the  entropy  of  the  received  signal.     If  -  is  large 

this  will  occur  very  nearly  when'  we  maximize  the  entropy  of  the  trans- 
mitted ensemble. 

The  asymptotic  upper  bound  is  obtained  by  relaxing  the  conditions  on 
the  ensemble.  Let  us  suppose  that  the  power  is  limited  to  S  not  at  every 
instant  of  time,  but  only  at  the  sample  points.  The  maximum  entropy  of 
the  transmitted  ensemble  under  these  weakened  conditions  is  certainly 
greater  than  or  equal  to  that  under  the  original  conditions.  This  altered 
problem  can  be  solved  easily.  The  maximum  entropy  occurs  if  the  different 
samples  are  independent  and  have  a  distribution  function  which  is  constant 
from  —  \/S  to  +  V^-     The  entropy  can  be  calculated  as 

W  log  4S. 
The  received  signal  will  then  have  an  entropy  less  than 
W\og  (45+  27reA^)(l  +  e) 


644  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

S 
with  €  -^  0  as  —  — >  00  and  the  channel  capacity  is  obtained  by  subtracting 

the  entropy  of  the  white  noise,  W  log  l-weN 

-S  +  N 
W  log  (45  +  2TreN){\  +  e)  -  TF  log  {lireN)  =  W  log  ""^    ^         (1  +  e). 

This  is  the  desired  upper  bound  to  the  channel  capacity. 

To  obtain  a  lower  bound  consider  the  same  ensemble  of  functions.     Let 

these  functions  be  passed  through  an  ideal  filter  with  a  triangular  transfer 

characteristic.     The  gain  is  to  be  unity  at  frequency  0  and  decline  linearly 

down  to  gain  0  at  frequency  W.     We  first  show  that  the  output  functions 

of  the  filter  have  a  peak  power  limitation  5  at  all  times  (not  just  the  sample 

^.  ,  ,     sin  ItWI      .      .   ,      ,     ^, 

pomts).     First  we  note  that  a  pulse  gomg  mto  the  filter  produces 

1  sin  irWt 


2    {irWiy 

in  the  output.  This  function  is  never  negative.  The  input  function  (in 
the  general  case)  can  be  thought  of  as  the  sum  of  a  series  of  shifted  functions 

sin  lirWt 
^     lirWt 

where  a,  the  amplitude  of  the  sample,  is  not  greater  than  v^-  Hence  the 
output  is  the  sum  of  shifted  functions  of  the  non-negative  form  above  with 
the  same  coefficients.  These  functions  being  non-negative,  the  greatest 
positive  value  for  any  /  is  obtained  when  all  the  coefficients  a  have  their 
maximum  positive  values,  i.e.  -s/S.  In  this  case  the  input  function  was  a 
constant  of  amplitude  -s/S  and  since  the  filter  has  unit  gain  for  D.C.,  the 
output  is  the  same.     Hence  the  output  ensemble  has  a  peak  power  S. 

The  entropy  of  the  output  ensemble  can  be  calculated  from  that  of  the 
input  ensemble  by  using  the  theorem  dealing  with  such  a  situation.  The 
output  entropy  is  equal  to  the  input  entropy  plus  the  geometrical  mean 
gain  of  the  filter; 

flogG^<f/=flog(i^J<i/=-2W' 
Hence  the  output  entropy  is 

W  log  45  -  21F  =  W  log  ^ 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  645 

and  the  channel  capacity  is  greater  than 

ire*  N 

S 
We  now  wish  to  show  that,  for  small  —  (peak  signal  power  over  average 

white  noise  power),  the  channel  capacity  is  approximately 
C  =  PFlog(l+|). 

/      s\  s 

More  precisely  C/W  log  (  1  +  -  )  -^  1  as  —  — »  0.     Since  the  average  signal 

5 
power  P  is  less  than  or  equal  to  the  peak  S,  it  follows  that  for  all  — 

C<W'log(l+ j)<fFlog(l+|). 

Therefore,  if  we  can  find  an  ensemble  of  functions  such  that  they  correspond 

to  a  rate  nearly  TF  log  f  1  +  -  J  and  are  limited  to  band  W  and  peak  S  the 

result  will  be  proved.  Consider  the  ensemble  of  functions  of  the  following 
type.  A  series  of  /  samples  have  the  same  value,  either  +  \/S  or  —  \/S, 
then  the  next  /  samples  have  the  same  value,  etc.  The  value  for  a  series 
is  chosen  at  random,  probability  |  for  +  \/S  and  |  for  —  \/5  If  this 
ensemble  be  passed  through  a  filter  with  triangular  gain  characteristic  (unit 
gain  at  D.C.),  the  output  is  peak  limited  to  =h5.  Furthermore  the  average 
power  is  nearly  S  and  can  be  made  to  approach  this  by  taking  /  sufl5ciently 
large.  The  entropy  of  the  sum  of  this  and  the  thermal  noise  can  be  found 
by  applying  the  theorem  on  the  sum  of  a  noise  and  a  small  signal.  This 
theorem  will  apply  if 

S 
is  sufficiently  small.     This  can  be  insured  by  taking  —  small  enough  (after 

/  is  chosen).  The  entropy  power  will  be  5  +  A^  to  as  close  an  approximation 
as  desired,  and  hence  the  rate  of  transmission  as  near  as  we  wish  to 


PFlog 


e4-o 


646  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

PART  V:  THE  RATE  FOR  A  CONTINUOUS  SOURCE 
26.  Fidelity  Evaluation  Functions 

In  the  case  of  a  discrete  source  of  information  we  were  able  to  determine  a 
definite  rate  of  generating  information,  namely  the  entropy  of  the  under- 
lying stochastic  process.  With  a  continuous  source  the  situation  is  con- 
siderably more  involved.  In  the  first  place  a  continuously  variable  quantity 
can  assume  an  infinite  number  of  values  and  requires,  therefore,  an  infinite 
number  of  binary  digits  for  exact  specification.  This  means  that  to  transmit 
the  output  of  a  continuous  source  with  exact  recovery  at  the  receiving  point 
requires,  in  general,  a  channel  of  infinite  capacity  (in  bits  per  second). 
Since,  ordinarily,  channels  have  a  certain  amount  of  noise,  and  therefore  a 
finite  capacity,  exact  transmission  is  impossible. 

This,  however,  evades  the  real  issue.  Practically,  we  are  not  interested 
in  exact  transmission  when  we  have  a  continuous  source,  but  only  in  trans- 
mission to  within  a  certain  tolerance.  The  question  is,  can  we  assign  a 
definite  rate  to  a  continuous  source  when  we  require  only  a  certain  fidelity 
of  recovery,  measured  in  a  suitable  way.  Of  course,  as  the  fidelity  require- 
ments are  increased  the  rate  will  increase.  It  will  be  shown  that  we  can,  in 
very  general  cases,  define  such  a  rate,  having  the  property  that  it  is  possible, 
by  properly  encoding  the  information,  to  transmit  it  over  a  channel  whose 
capacity  is  equal  to  the  rate  in  question,  and  satisfy  the  fidelity  requirements. 
A  channel  of  smaller  capacity  is  insufficient. 

It  is  first  necessary  to  give  a  general  mathematical  formulation  of  the  idea 
of  fidelity  of  transmission.  Consider  the  set  of  messages  of  a  long  duration, 
say  T  seconds.  The  source  is  described  by  giving  the  probability  density, 
in  the  associated  space,  that  the  source  will  select  the  message  in  question 
P{x).  A  given  communication  system  is  described  (from  the  external  point 
of  view)  by  giving  the  conditional  probability  Pxiy)  that  if  message  x  is 
produced  by  the  source  the  recovered  message  at  the  receiving  point  will 
be  y.  The  system  as  a  whole  (including  source  and  transmission  system) 
is  described  by  the  probability  function  P{x,  y)  of  having  message  x  and 
final  output  y.  If  this  function  is  known,  the  complete  characteristics  of 
the  system  from  the  point  of  view  of  fidelity  are  known.  Any  evaluation 
of  fidelity  must  correspond  mathematically  to  an  operation  applied  to 
P{x,  y).  This  operation  must  at  least  have  the  properties  of  a  simple  order- 
ing of  systems;  i.e.  it  must  be  possible  to  say  of  two  systems  represented  by 
Pi{x,  y)  and  P-i.{x,  y)  that,  according  to  our  fidelity  criterion,  either  (1)  the 
first  has  higher  fidelity,  (2)  the  second  has  higher  fidelity,  or  (3)  they  have 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  647 

equal  fidelity.     This  means  that  a  criterion  of  fidelity  can  be  represented  by 
a  numerically  valued  function: 

v{P{x,  y)) 

whose  argument  ranges  over  possible  probability  functions  F{x,  y). 

We  will  now  show  that  under  very  general  and  reasonable  assumptions 
the  function  v{P{x,  y))  can  be  written  in  a  seemingly  much  more  specialized 
form,  namely  as  an  average  of  a  function  p{x,  y)  over  the  set  of  possible  values 
of  X  and  y: 


)(P{x,  y))  =  j  j  P{x,  y)  p{x,  y)  dx  dy 


To  obtain  this  we  need  only  assume  (1)  that  the  source  and  system  are 
ergodic  so  that  a  very  long  sample  will  be,  with  probability  nearly  1,  typical 
of  the  ensemble,  and  (2)  that  the  evaluation  is  ' 'reasonable"  in  the  sense 
that  it  is  possible,  by  observing  a  typical  input  and  output  Xi  and  yi ,  to 
form  a  tentative  evaluation  on  the  basis  of  these  samples;  and  if  these 
samples  are  increased  in  duration  the  tentative  evaluation  will,  with  proba- 
bility 1,  approach  the  exact  evaluation  based  on  a  full  knowledge  of  P{x,  y). 
Let  the  tentative  evaluation  be  p(x,  y).  Then  the  function  p(x,  y)  ap- 
proaches (as  r  -^  00 )  a  constant  for  almost  all  (x,  y)  which  are  in  the  high 
probability  region  corresponding  to  the  system: 

p(x,  y)  -^  v(P(x,  y)) 
and  we  may  also  write 

p{x,  y)  -^  j  j  P{x,  y)pix,  y)  dx,  dy 


smce 


/  /  P{x,  y)  dx  dy  =  1 


This  establishes  the  desired  result. 

The  function  p{x,  y)  has  the  general  nature  of  a  "distance"  between  x 
and  y.  It  measures  how  bad  it  is  (according  to  our  fidelity  criterion)  to 
receive  y  when  x  is  transmitted.  The  general  result  given  above  can  be 
restated  as  follows:  Any  reasonable  evaluation  can  be  represented  as  an 
average  of  a  distance  function  over  the  set  of  messages  and  recovered  mes- 
sages X  and  y  weighted  according  to  the  probability  P(x,  y)  of  getting  the 
pair  in  question,  provided  the  duration  T  of  the  messages  be  taken  suffi- 
ciently large. 

®It  is  not  a  "metric"  in  the  strict  sense,  however,  since  in  general  it  does  not  satisfy 
either  p(x,  y)  =  p{y,  x)  or  p{x,  y)  +  p{y,  z)  >  p{x,  z). 


648  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  following  are  simple  examples  of  evaluation  functions: 
1.  R.M.S.  Criterion. 


V  =  (x{t)  -  y{t)f 

In  this  very  commonly  used  criterion  of  fidelity  the  distance  function 
p{x,  y)  is  (apart  from  a  constant  factor)  the  square  of  the  ordinary 
euclidean  distance  between  the  points  x  and  y  in  the  associated  function 
space. 

p{x,y)  =  fjjw)  -yiOfdt 

2.  Frequency  weighted  R.M.S.  criterion.  More  generally  one  can  apply 
different  weights  to  the  different  frequency  components  before  using  an 
R.M.S.  measure  of  fidelity.  This  is  equivalent  to  passing  the  difference 
x{t)  —  y{l)  through  a  shaping  filter  and  then  determining  the  average 
power  in  the  output.     Thus  let 

e{t)  =  x{t)  -  y{t) 


and 


fit)  =    f     e{T)k{t  -  r)  dt 


then 

1    r 


p{x,  y)  =  fl  M  dt- 


3.  Absolute  error  criterion. 

1    r^       . 

dt 


p(^, y)  =  ^l   I ^(0  -  ^(0 


4.  The  structure  of  the  ear  and  brain  determine  implicitly  an  evaluation,  or 

rather  a  number  of  evaluations,  appropriate  in  the  case  of  speech  or  music 
transmission.  There  is,  for  example,  an  "intelligibility"  criterion  in 
which  p{x,  y)  is  equal  to  the  relative  frequency  of  incorrectly  interpreted 
words  when  message  x{l)  is  received  as  y{l).  Although  we  cannot  give 
an  explicit  representation  of  p{x,  y)  in  these  cases  it  could,  in  principle, 
be  determined  by  sufficient  experimentation.  Some  of  its  properties 
follow  from  well-known  experimental  results  in  hearing,  e.g.,  the  ear  is 
relatively  insensitive  to  phase  and  the  sensitivity  to  amplitude  and  fre- 
quency is  roughly  logarithmic. 

5.  The  discrete  case  can  be  considered  as  a  specialization  in  which  we  have 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  649 

tacitly  assumed  an  evaluation  based  on  the  frequency  of  errors.  The 
function  p{x,  y)  is  then  defined  as  the  number  of  symbols  in  the  sequence 
y  differing  from  the  corresponding  symbols  in  x  divided  by  the  total  num- 
ber of  symbols  in  x. 

27.  The  Rate  for  a  Source  Relative  to  a  Fidelity  Evaluation 

We  are  now  in  a  position  to  define  a  rate  of  generating  information  for  a 
continuous  source.  We  are  given  P{x)  for  the  source  and  an  evaluation  v 
determined  by  a  distance  function  p(x,  y)  which  will  be  assumed  continuous 
in  both  X  and  y.     With  a  particular  system  P(x,  y)  the  quality  is  measured  by 

"^  =  jj  p(^'  y)  ^(^'  3')  ^^  ^y 

Furthermore  the  rate  of  flow  of  binary  digits  corresponding  to  P{x,  y)  is 

We  define  the  rate  Ri  of  generating  information  for  a  given  quality  vi  of 
reproduction  to  be  the  minimum  of  R  when  we  keep  v  fixed  at  vi  and  vary 
PxW.     That  is: 

subject  to  the  constraint: 


vi  =  jj  P(x,  y)p{x,  y)  dx  dy. 


This  means  that  we  consider,  in  effect,  all  the  communication  systems  that 
might  be  used  and  that  transmit  with  the  required  fidelity.  The  rate  of 
transmission  in  bits  per  second  is  calculated  for  each  one  and  we  choose  that 
having  the  least  rate.  This  latter  rate  is  the  rate  we  assign  the  source  for 
the  fidelity  in  question. 

The  justification  of  this  definition  lies  in  the  following  result: 

Theorem  21:  If  a  source  has  a  rate  Ri  for  a  valuation  vi  it  is  possible  to 
encode  the  output  of  the  source  and  transmit  it  over  a  channel  of  capacity  C 
with  fidelity  as  near  vi  as  desired  provided  Ri  <  C.  This  is  not  possible 
if  Ri  >  C. 

The  last  statement  in  the  theorem  follows  immediately  from  the  definition 
of  Ri  and  previous  results.  If  it  were  not  true  we  could  transmit  more  than 
C  bits  per  second  over  a  channel  of  capacity  C.  The  first  part  of  the  theorem 
is  proved  by  a  method  analogous  to  that  used  for  Theorem  11.  We  may,  in 
the  first  place,  divide  the  (x,  y)  space  into  a  large  number  of  small  cells  and 


650  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

represent  the  situation  as  a  discrete  case.  This  will  not  change  the  evalua- 
tion function  by  more  than  an  arbitrarily  small  amount  (when  the  cells  are 
very  small)  because  of  the  continuity  assumed  for  p{x,  y).  Suppose  that 
Pi{x,  y)  is  the  particular  system  which  minimizes  the  rate  and  gives  Ri  .  We 
choose  from  the  high  probability  y's  a  set  at  random  containing 

2(Ri  +  €)r 

members  where  €  -^  0  as  T  -^  oo .  With  large  T  each  chosen  point  will  be 
connected  by  a  high  probability  line  (as  in  Fig.  10)  to  a  set  of  x's.  A  calcu- 
lation similar  to  that  used  in  proving  Theorem  11  shows  that  with  large  T 
almost  all  x's  are  covered  by  the  fans  from  the  chosen  y  points  for  almost 
all  choices  of  the  y's.  The  communication  system  to  be  used  operates  as 
follows:  The  selected  points  are  assigned  binary  numbers.  When  a  message 
X  is  originated  it  will  (with  probability  approaching  1  as  T  — >  oo )  lie  within 
one  at  least  of  the  fans.  The  corresponding  binary  number  is  transmitted 
(or  one  of  them  chosen  arbitrarily  if  there  are  several)  over  the  channel  by 
suitable  coding  means  to  give  a  small  probability  of  error.  Since  Ri  <  C 
this  is  possible.  At  the  receiving  point  the  corresponding  y  is  reconstructed 
and  used  as  the  recovered  message. 

The  evaluation  vi  for  this  system  can  be  made  arbitrarily  close  to  vi  by 
taking  T  sufficiently  large.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  for  each  long  sample 
of  message  x{t)  and  recovered  message  y{t)  the  evaluation  approaches  vi 
(with  probability  1). 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  in  this  system,  the  noise  in  the  recovered 
message  is  actually  produced  by  a  kind  of  general  quantizing  at  the  trans- 
mitter and  is  not  produced  by  the  noise  in  the  channel.  It  is  more  or  less 
analogous  to  the  quantizing  noise  in  P. CM. 

28.  The  Calculation  of  Rates 

The  definition  of  the  rate  is  similar  in  many  respects  to  the  definition  of 
channel  capacity.     In  the  former 

/?  =  Max//p(.,,)log^^<fx<^, 

with  P{x)  and  Vi  =    11  P(x,  y)p(x,  y)  dx  dy  fixed.     In  the  latter 

C  =  Min   l\  P(x,  y)  log  ^^ ,  dx  dy 
Pix)    JJ  P{x)P{y) 

with  Px{y)  fixed  and  possibly  one  or  more  other  constraints  (e.g.,  an  average 
power  limitation)  of  the  form  K  =  ff  P(x,  y)  \{x,  y)  dx  dy. 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMVNICATION  651 

A  partial  solution  of  the  general  maximizing  problem  for  determining  the 
rate  of  a  source  can  be  given.     Using  Lagrange's  method  we  consider 


//[ 


^X:v,  y)  log  ^§^)  +  M  P{^.  y)p{x,  y)  +  v{x)F{x,  y)\  dx  dy 


The  variational  equation  (when  we  take  the  first  variation  on  P(x,  y)) 
leads  to 

Py{x)  =  B(x)  e-^'^""''^ 

where  X  is  determined  to  give  the  required  fidelity  and  B(x)  is  chosen  to 
satisfy 


j  B(x)e-^'^'''^  dx  =  1 


This  shows  that,  with  best  encoding,  the  conditional  probability  of  a  cer- 
tain cause  for  various  received  y,  Py{x)  will  decline  exponentially  with  the 
distance  function  p(x,  y)  between  the  x  and  y  is  question. 

In  the  special  case  where  the  distance  function  p{x,  y)  depends  only  on  the 
(vector)  difference  between  x  and  y, 

p(x,y)  =  p(x  -  y)- 

we  have 


/ 


B{x)e~^'^'-'^  dx  =  1. 

Hence  B{x)  is  constant,  say  a,  and 

Py{x)  =  a^'"^"-^^ 

Unfortunately  these  formal  solutions  are  difficult  to  evaluate  in  particular 
cases  and  seem  to  be  of  little  value.  In  fact,  the  actual  calculation  of  rates 
has  been  carried  out  in  only  a  few  very  simple  cases. 

If  the  distance  function  p{x,  y)  is  the  mean  square  discrepancy  between 
X  and  y  and  the  message  ensemble  is  white  noise,  the  rate  can  be  determined. 
In  that  case  we  have 

R  =  Min  \H(x)  -  Hy(x)]  =  H(x)  -  Max  Hy{x) 


with  N  =  (x  —  y)^.  But  the  Max  Hy(x)  occurs  when  y  —  x  is  a  white  noise, 
and  is  equal  to  Wi  log  2xe  N  where  Wi  is  the  bandwidth  of  the  message  en- 
semble.    Therefore 

R=  Wi  log  IweQ  -  Wi  log  lireN 

where  Q  is  the  average  message  power.     This  proves  the  following: 


652  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Theorem  22:  The  rate  for  a  white  noise  source  of  power  Q  and  band  W\ 
relative  to  an  R.M.S.  measure  of  fideUty  is 

where  N  is  the  allowed  mean  square  error  between  original  and  recovered 
messages. 

More  generally  with  any  message  source  we  can  obtain  inequalities  bound- 
ing the  rate  relative  to  a  mean  square  error  criterion. 

Theorem  23:  The  rate  for  any  source  of  band  Wi  is  bounded  by 

W',log|<J?<irilog| 

where  Q  is  the  average  power  of  the  source,  Qi  its  entropy  power  and  TV  the 
allowed  mean  square  error. 

The  lower  bound  follows  from  the  fact  that  the  max  Hy{x)  for  a  given 
{x  —  y)  =  N  occurs  in  the  white  noise  case.  The  upper  bound  results  if  we 
place  the  points  (used  in  the  proof  of  Theorem  21)  not  in  the  best  way  but 
at  random  in  a  sphere  of  radius  ■\/Q  —  N. 

Acknowledgments 

The  writer  is  indebted  to  his  colleagues  at  the  Laboratories,  particularly 
to  Dr.  H.  W.  Bode,  Dr.  J.  R.  Pierce,  Dr.  B.  McMillan,  and  Dr.  B.  M.  Oliver 
for  many  helpful  suggestions  and  criticisms  during  the  course  of  this  work. 
Credit  should  also  be  given  to  Professor  N.  Wiener,  whose  elegant  solution 
of  the  problems  of  filtering  and  prediction  of  stationary  ensembles  has  con- 
siderably influenced  the  writer's  thinking  in  this  field. 

APPENDIX  5 

Let  5i  be  any  measurable  subset  of  the  g  ensemble,  and  ^2  the  subset  of 
the/  ensemble  which  gives  Si  under  the  operation  T.    Then 

Si  =  TS2. 

Let  H^  be  the  operator  which  shifts  all  functions  in  a  set  by  the  time  X. 
Then 

H%  =  H^'TSi  =  TH^'Si 

since  T  is  invariant  and  therefore  commutes  with  H  .  Hence  if  m[S\  is  the 
probability  measure  of  the  set  S 

m[H%]  =  mlTH^Si]  =  mlH^Si] 

=  miSi]  =  m[Si] 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  653 

where  the  second  equality  is  by  definition  of  measure  in  the  g  space  the 
third  since  the/  ensemble  is  stationary,  and  the  last  by  definition  of  g  meas- 
ure again. 

To  prove  that  the  ergodic  property  is  preserved  under  invariant  operations, 
let  Si  be  a  subset  of  the  g  ensemble  which  is  invariant  under  H^,  and  let  ^2 
be  the  set  of  all  functions  /  which  transform  into  6*1.     Then 

H^Si  =  F'r52  =  TH^S2  =  ^'i 

so  that  H  6*1  is  included  in  ^i  for  all  X.     Now,  since 

m[H''S2]  =  m[Si] 

this  implies 

for  all  X  with  m[S2]  5^  0,  1.     This  contradiction  shows  that  6*1  does  not  exist. 

APPENDIX  6 

The  upper  bound,  N3  <  Ni  -]-  Nz ,  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  maximum 
possible  entropy  for  a  power  iVi  +  N2  occurs  when  we  have  a  white  noise  of 
this  power.     In  this  case  the  entropy  power  is  Ni  +  7V^2. 

To  obtain  the  lower  bound,  suppose  we  have  two  distributions  in  n  dimen- 
sions p{xi)  and  q(xi)  with  entropy  powers  Ni  and  N2.  What  form  should 
p  and  q  have  to  minimize  the  entropy  power  Ns  of  their  convolution  r{xi) : 

r{xi)  =  j  p(yi)q{xi  -  y,)  dyi . 

The  entropy  Hz  of  r  is  given  by 

Hz  =  —  \  r{xi)  log  r(xi)  dxi . 

We  wish  to  minimize  this  subject  to  the  constraints 

Hi  =  -  j  p{xi)  log  p(xi)  dxi 

B2  =  -  j  q{xi)  log  q{xi)  dxi . 
We  consider  then 
U  =  -j  lr{x)  log  r(x)  -f  Xp{x)  log  p(x)  +  fiq(x)  log  q(x)]  dx 

5?7  =  -|  [[1  +  \ogr{x)\br{x)  +  X[l  +  log  p{x)]bp{x) 

+  m[1  +  log  q{x)bq{x)\]  dx. 


654  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

If  p{x)  is  varied  at  a  particular  argument  Xi  =  Si ,  the  variation  in  r(x)  is 

8r{x)  =  q(xi  —  Sr) 
and 

bU  =  —  I  qixi  —  Si)  log  rixi)  dxi  —  X  log  p{s^)  =  0 

and  similarly  when  q  is  varied.     Hence  the  conditions  for  a  minimum  are 
j  q{xi  -  5i)  log  r{x^  =  -X  log  p(si) 

j  p{xi  -  Si)  log  r{xi)  =  -fji  log  q{si). 

If  we  multiply  the  first  by  p{si)  and  the  second  by  q{si)  and  integrate  with 
respect  to  s  we  obtain 

Hs  =  —  X  Hi 

H,  =  -n  H, 

or  solving  for  X  and  )u  and  replacing  in  the  equations 

Hi  I  q{xi  —  Si)  log  r(xi)  dxi  =  —H3  log  pisi) 
H2  j  p{xi  —  5i)  log  r{x^  dxi  =  —H^  log  p{si). 


^(^^■)    =     /9  '\n/2    ^^P    ~    h^AijXiXj 


Now  suppose  />(a[:i)  and  q{xi)  are  normal 

(2x) 
^(^t)  =  L^W2  ^^P  ~  h^BijXiXj. 

Then  r(:ri)  will  also  be  normal  with  quadratic  form  dj.  If  the  inverses  of 
these  forms  are  ij^y,  bij,  Cij  then 

We  wish  to  show  that  these  functions  satisfy  the  minimizing  conditions  if 
and  only  if  a,y  =  Kbij  and  thus  give  the  minimum  H^  under  the  constraints. 
First  we  have 

fi         1 
log  r(x»)  =  -  log  —  I  Cij  I  -  \i:CijXiXi 

/n  1 

q{xi  -  s^)  log  r{xi)  =  -  log  —  [  dj  \  -  ^^djSiSj  -  \i:djhij . 


MATHEMATICAL  THEORY  OF  COMMUNICATION  655 

This  should  equal 


|[floglMo|-i2^.v^..,] 


which  requires  A  ij  =  -^  C,y . 

TJ 

In  this  case  A  ij  =  -—  B^j  and  both  equations  reduce  to  identities. 
H2 

APPENDIX  7 

The  following  will  indicate  a  more  general  and  more  rigorous  approach  to 
the  central  definitions  of  communication  theory.  Consider  a  probability 
measure  space  whose  elements  are  ordered  pairs  (x,  y).  The  variables  x,  y 
are  to  be  identified  as  the  possible  transmitted  and  received  signals  of  some 
long  duration  T.  Let  us  call  the  set  of  all  points  whose  x  belongs  to  a  subset 
Si  of  X  points  the  strip  over  Si ,  and  similarly  the  set  whose  y  belongs  to  S2 
the  strip  over  S2 .  We  divide  x  and  y  into  a  collection  of  non-overlapping 
measurable  subsets  Xi  and  Yi  approximate  to  the  rate  of  transmission  R  by 

^■  =  ^i:P(A-..,F..)log^g^^ 

where 

P(Xi)  is  the  probability  measure  of  the  strip  over  Xi 
P{ Y^)  is  the  probability  measure  of  the  strip  over  Yi 
P{Xi,  Yi)  is  the  probability  measure  of  the  intersection  of  the  strips. 

A  further  subdivision  can  never  decrease  Ri .     For  let  Xi  be  divided  into 
Xi=  X[  +  Xi   and  let 

P{Yi)  =  a  P{Xi)  =  b  +  c 

P(X[)  =  b  P(X[,  Yi)  =  d 

P{Xi)  =  c  P{Xi,  Yi)  =  e 

P(Xi,  Yi)  =  d-\-e 

Then  in  the  sum  we  have  replaced  (for  the  Xi,  Yi  intersection) 

{d  +  e)  log    .,.\     by     dlog-  -\-  e  log  - . 
a{o  -f-  c)  ao  ac 

It  is  easily  shown  that  with  the  limitation  we  have  on  h,  c,  d,  e, 

d'e' 


m 


-  b^c 


656  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

and  consequently  the  sum  is  increased.  Thus  the  various  possible  subdivi- 
sions form  a  directed  set,  with  R  mono  tonic  increasing  with  refinement  of 
the  subdivision.  We  may  define  R  unambiguously  as  the  least  upper  bound 
for  the  R\  and  write  it 

i^  =  i // P(.,y)  log  ^>g)  </.-/.. 

This  integral,  understood  in  the  above  sense,  includes  both  the  continuous 
and  discrete  cases  and  of  course  many  others  which  cannot  be  represented 
in  either  form.  It  is  trivial  in  this  formulation  that  if  x  and  u  are  in  one-to- 
one  correspondence,  the  rate  from  w  to  y  is  equal  to  that  from  x  to  y.  If  v 
is  any  function  of  y  (not  necessarily  with  an  inverse)  then  the  rate  from  x  to 
y  is  greater  than  or  equal  to  that  from  x  to  i)  since,  in  the  calculation  of  the 
approximations,  the  subdivisions  of  y  are  essentially  a  finer  subdivision  of 
those  for  v.  More  generally  if  y  and  v  are  related  not  functionally  but 
statistically,  i.e.,  we  have  a  probability  measure  space  (y,  v),  then  R{x,  v)  < 
R{x,  y).  This  means  that  any  operation  applied  to  the  received  signal,  even 
though  it  involves  statistical  elements,  does  not  increase  R. 

Another  notion  which  should  be  defined  precisely  in  an  abstract  formu- 
lation of  the  theory  is  that  of  ''dimension  rate,"  that  is  the  average  number 
of  dimensions  required  per  second  to  specify  a  member  of  an  ensemble.  In 
the  band  limited  case  2W  numbers  per  second  are  sufficient.  A  general 
definition  can  be  framed  as  follows.  Let/a(0  be  an  ensemble  of  functions 
and  let  prlfaiO , fM\  be  a  metric  measuring  the  "distance"  from/a  to /^ 
over  the  time  T  (for  example  the  R.M.S.  discrepancy  over  this  interval.) 
Let  N{e,  8,  T)  be  the  least  number  of  elements  /  which  can  be  chosen  such 
that  all  elements  of  the  ensemble  apart  from  a  set  of  measure  5  are  within 
the  distance  e  of  at  least  one  of  those  chosen.  Thus  we  are  covering  the 
space  to  within  e  apart  from  a  set  of  small  measure  5.  We  define  the  di- 
mension rate  X  for  the  ensemble  by  the  triple  limit 

.        ...     ^.     ^.     log  7\^(e,  5,  r) 
X  =  Lim  Lim  Lim  -^^    ^— ^ — . 
5_»o    €-»o    r-»oo         i  log  e 

This  is  a  generalization  of  the  measure  type  definitions  of  dimension  in 
topology,  and  agrees  with  the  intuitive  dimension  rate  for  simple  ensembles 
where  the  desired  result  is  obvious. 


Transients  in  Mechanical  Systems 

By  J.  T.  MULLER 

Introduction 

A  study  of  the  response  of  an  electrical  network  or  system  to  the  input 
of  transients  in  the  form  of  short-duration  pulses  is  an  accepted  method  of 
analysis  of  the  network.  By  comparing  the  input  and  the  output,  conclu- 
sions may  be  drawn  as  to  the  respective  merit  of  the  various  components. 

Until  recently  similar  procedures  were  only  of  academic  interest  with 
mechanical  systems.  However,  the  tests  for  mechanical  ruggedness,  which 
are  required  of  electronic  gear  in  order  to  pass  specifications  for  the  armed 
forces,  are  an  example  of  the  application  of  transients  to  a  mechanical  sys- 
tem.    These  tests  are  known  as  High  Impact  Shock  Tests. 

A  basic  part  of  an  electrical  system  is  a  damped  resonant  network  consist- 
ing of  an  inductance,  a  capacitance  and  a  resistance.  A  mass,  a  spring  and 
a  friction  device  is  the  equivalent  mechanical  network  called  a  simple  me- 
chanical system  and  a  combination  of  such  networks  is  a  general  mechanical 
system.  It  is,  of  course,  advantageous  to  keep  the  mechanical  system  as 
simple  as  possible  without  detracting  from  the  general  usefulness  of  the 
results  obtained. 

The  problems  here  considered  are  pertinent  to  a  system  which  is  essen- 
tially made  up  of  a  supporting  structure  or  table  and  a  resilient  mounting 
array  bearing  the  equipment  (e.g.  electronic  gear)  which  is  vulnerable  to 
shock.     (See  Fig.  1.) 

A  shock  is  the  physical  manifestation  of  the  transfer  of  mechanical  energy 
from  one  body  to  another  during  an  extremely  short  interval  of  time.  The 
order  of  magnitude  of  the  time  interval  is  milliseconds  and  quite  frequently 
fractions  of  a  millisecond. 

The  system  is  excited  by  administering  large  spurts  of  mechanical  energy 
to  the  supporting  table.  The  manner  in  which  this  energy  is  suppHed  to  the 
base  and  the  way  it  is  dissipated  through  the  system  are  the  subjects  of  this 
paper. 

The  energy  transfer  to  the  supporting  table  is  accomplished  by  the  use 
of  huge  hammers  which  strike  the  anvil  with  controllable  speeds.  The 
action  is  assumed  to  be  similar  to  that  of  an  explosion,  particularly  to  an 
underwater  explosion  at  close  range  or  a  near-miss.  As  to  the  real  compar- 
ison between  the  two,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  various  manuscripts 
published  by  the  Bureau  of  -Ships.    This  particular  phase  of  the  subject  is 

657 


658 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


considered  outside  the  scope  of  this  paper,  except  for  the  following  brief 
statement: 

Both  actions  fit  the  definition  of  shock  stated  above  and  the  difference  be- 
tween the  two  is  one  of  size  and  not  of  kind. 

Shocks  are  transients  and  are  conveniently  treated  by  a  branch  of  mathe- 
matics which  is  adapted  to  the  solution  of  problems  of  this  kind;  viz,  the 
Laplace  Transforms,  and  the  reader  is  referred  to  Gardner  and  Barnes, 
"Transients  in  Linear  Systems."  The  nomenclature  used  here  is  identical 
to  that  of  those  authors. 


REStLIENT 

^  MOUNTING    ARRAY 

(STIFFNESS,  k) 


HAMMER 


Fig.  1 — Schematic  layout  of  shock  machine. 


The  manuscript  consists  of  two  parts:  In  the  first,  the  energy  transfer  to 
the  base  is  considered.  We  are  dealing  here  with  rigid  bodies;  consequently 
with  very  small  transient  displacements  and  very  large  forces.  These  are 
usually  referred  to  as  impact  forces  or  impulses  and  four  such  functions  of 
force  and  time  are  discussed.  Displacements  with  associated  velocities  re- 
sult from  the  action  of  impulses  on  the  base. 

The  second  part  deals  with  the  effect  of  these  displacements  on  the  shock- 
mounted  equipment.  Although  the  mathematical  procedure  is  identical  to 
the  first  part,  here  we  deal  with  a  function  of  displacement  and  time.  There 
is  no  specific  name  for  such  a  relationship  but  a  suggestive  term  is  "whip." 
However,  the  pulse  functions  represented  are  the  same  as  those  of  the  force 
and  time  function. 

It  is  assumed  that  the  displacement-time  pulse  is  independent  of  the  subse- 
quent motion  of  the  mass. 

In  considering  any  kind  of  shock  problem  we  have  the  following  funda- 
mental considerations: 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS  659 

First,  we  shall  want  to  know  the  magnitude  of  the  shock  present  in  the 
base  or  supporting  structure;  this  will  be  called  the  "excitation." 

Second,  the  behavior  of  the  resilient  medium  interposed  between  the 
shock-producing  base  and  the  equipment.  It  is  sometimes  expressed  as  the 
coupling.     We  shall  use  the  term  transmission. 

Third,  the  resulting  disturbance  of  the  equipment  caused  by  the  trans- 
mitted shock,  which  we  will  call  the  response. 

The  three  functions  do  not  exist  independently,  but  are  mathematically 
related.  For  a  clearer  understanding  of  shock  phenomena  it  is  perhaps 
helpful  to  fix  in  one's  mind  the  idea  that  the  response  of  a  system  is  com- 
pletely dependent  upon  the  transmission  function. 

To  use  an  electrical  analogue,  the  voltage  ei  (t)  impressed  upon  a  system 
produces  an  output  voltage  62  (/)  which  is  completely  defined  by  the  trans- 
mission function.  For  instance,  if  this  transmission  function  represents  a 
filter  of  some  kind  with  given  boundaries,  then  it  is  to  be  expected  that  the 
response  of  ^2  (t)  is  completely  changed  outside  these  limits  and  could  even 
be  zero.  The  same  train  of  thought  will  hold  for  mechanical  systems.  Here 
the  transmission  function  is  mostly  represented  by  the  stiffness  or  the  com- 
pliance. For  a  completely  rigid  medium  the  stiffness  would  be  infinite  and 
the  input  and  output  would  be  alike;  in  other  words,  a  force  applied  to  the 
base  would  appear  at  the  equipment.  This  is  a  theoretical  case  because  no 
material  is  perfectly  rigid.  Though  some  materials  are  more  rigid  than 
others  they  will  all  give  if  the  force  applied  is  big  enough.  Now  the  forces 
associated  with  a  shock  are  almost  always  of  considerable  magnitude  so  that 
the  stiffness  of  a  material  becomes  significant. 

As  the  stiffness  diminishes  the  response  changes  and  may  appear  to  be 
quite  different  from  the  input.  As  far  as  the  transmissibility  of  forces  is 
concerned,  the  reader  is  reminded  that  a  force  is  always  accompanied  by  a 
reaction.  The  forces  which  put  the  base  into  motion  cannot  be  transmitted 
by  a  soft  material  Uke  rubber,  unless  it  is  compressed  to  extremely  high 
values,  and  thus  produce  an  equally  large  reactive  force. 

PART  I 
Analysis  of  The  Excitation  of  the  Base 

By  recording  the  motions  of  the  base,  we  obtain  time-displacement  curves 
as  shown  in  Fig.  2.  The  method  of  recording  has  been  done  by  means  of 
high-speed  motion  pictures  (at  the  Whippany  testing  laboratory  using  a 
Fastex)  and  by  using  strain  gages  (at  the  Annapolis  Engineering  Experiment 
Station). 

The  test  equipments  are  fundamentally  mechanical  impact  producing 
machines.     For  technical  details  and  description  of  the  machines  the  reader 


660  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

is  referred  to  the  various  test  specifications  by  the  Bureau  of  Ships  (as^  for 
example,  Spec.  40T9). 

The  characteristic  of  an  impact  is  the  transfer  of  mechanical  energy  from 
one  mass  to  another  in  a  relatively  short  time.  The  corresponding  force  as 
function  of  time  is  called  an  impulse,  henceforth  indicated  as  F{t).  A  study 
of  the  pulse  functions  has  suggested  some  probable  theoretical  shapes  of  F{t) 
which  could  cover  a  wide  variety  of  conditions.  These  pulse  functions  will 
be  used  for  force-time  functions  as  well  as  displacement-time-functions  and 
it  will  be  shown  that  the  results  are  surprisingly  similar. 

We  will  let  these  pulses  operate  on  the  base  with  mass  mi  and  calculate  and 
plot  the  resulting  time  displacement  curves.     Since  an  impulse  is  associated 

2 
ffl-1%1 

with  energy  transfer,  it  must  be  a  function  of  — - .     From  the  point  of  view 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  i  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  M  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  M  M  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  M  1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 

TIME  >■  -»^  |<- 2   MILLISECONDS 

Fig.  2 — Time  displacement  record  of  medium  high  impact  machine. 

of  shock  action,  the  final  velocity  v  is  extremely  important,  for  it  is  this 
velocity  which  will  determine  the  displacement  and  acceleration  of  the 
shock-mounted  equipment. 

To  distinguish  the  various  applications  of  the  pulse  functions,  the  follow- 
ing notations  are  adopted: 

/(/)  represents  any  functions  of  /,  without  reference  to  its  dimensional 
magnitude.     The  transform  of /(/)  is  indicated  by  F{s). 

x{t)  represents  a  function  of  /  when  it  is  a  displacement  of  the  mars  m 
only.     The  transform  is  indicated  by  X{s). 

Xi{l)  represents  a  function  of  /  when  it  is  a  displacement  of  the  base  (with 
mass  mi)  only.    The  transform  is  indicated  by  Xi(s). 

F(t)  represents  a  function  of  /  when  it  is  a  force  applied  to  the  base.  The 
transform  is  indicated  by  Fo{s). 

Since  Xi{t)  and  F{l)  are  input  functions,  they  may  be  represented  by  the 
same  type  pulse,  in  which  case  the  transforms  are  alike,  i.e.,  F{s)  =  Xi(s)  = 
Fo(s). 

Figure  3A,  a  rectangular  pulse,  is  the  simplest  form. 

Figure  3B  is  a  triangular  pulse, /(/),  reaching  a  peak  and  returning  to  zero 
in  a  linear  manner. 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 


661 


Figure  3C  consists  of  one-half  cycle  of  a  sine  wave. 

Figure  3D  is  a  cosine  pulse  of  one-cycle  duration  and  is  shifted  along  the  Y 
axis  an  amount  equal  to  the  amplitude. 

These  are  the  pulses  to  be  used  in  the  problems  under  consideration. 

If  they  represent  a  force  as  it  varies  with  time  then  it  is  said  that  F{t) 
represents  a  particular  pulse.  The  Laplace  transform  of  F(t)  is  given  as 
Fo(s),  Fq(s)  being  some  function  in  the  complex  domain.  It  is  outside  the 
scope  of  this  paper  to  prove  or  [how  the  mathematical  technique  in  ob- 
taining the  transforms  which  produce  Fo{s).  We  will  present  them  here  for 
future  reference. 


TIME=t 

Fig.  3 — Four  pulses. 

The  Laplace  transform  for  a  very  short  pulse  is 

F{s)  =  Ar 


(1.01) 


and  is  a  pulse  which  has  a  finite  area  but  the  time  interval  of  which  is 
approaching  zero. 

For  a  square  pulse  with  finite  time  interval  and  magnitude  a  (hereafter 
referred  to  as  pulse  amplitude)  it  is 

-bs 


Fis)  =  a 


1 


(1.02) 


For  a  triangular  pulse 
For  a  sine  pulse 

F(s)  =  ^^,  (1  +  r"'"») 


(1.03) 


(1.04) 


662  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

For  a  shifted  cosine  pulse 

'-«  =  27(^.1)  (^-^^^"")  ''■''' 

Suppose  we  let  an  impulse,  and  to  take  a  specific  example,  a  triangular 
impulse,  operate  on  a  mass  mi.     We  have 

F  =  wioo  (1-06) 

in  which 

F  =  F{t)  =  force  in  lbs. 

Ml  =  mass  in  slugs 

ao  =  xi  =  acceleration  in  ft/sec 

Let  I'lxiit)]  =  X,{s)  =  Xi 
then 

iL[wifi]   =   Wi6    Xi{s) 

the  ii^  transform  of  a  triangular  pulse  F{t)  is 

Substituting 

The  inverse  transform  is 

The  solution  of  1.09 

^.(0  =  ^lK-2  (-'-^'  nil  ~b)+  '^^  nil  -  2b)]      (1.10) 
nil  b[_o  6  6  J 

After  the  impulse  is  over,  i.e.,  for  values  of  /  >  2b,  1.10  becomes 

x,(t)  =±b{t-  b)  (1.11) 

mi 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 


663 


and  the  final  velocity  is 


which  represents  the  area  of  the  impulse  divided  by  the  mass. 
Similarly  we  find  for  the  very  short  square  impulse 


.ri 


=  —t 

Ml 


For  the  square  impulse  of  finite  time  interval  b 

ab 


For  the  sine  impulse 


.ri  = 


:*•!  = 


nil 


(-0 


LCOo   \  ZWo/ 


WlCOo 


For  the  shifted  cosine  impulse 


Xi   = 


air 


V  Wo/ 


(1.12) 


(1.13) 


(1.14) 


(1.15) 


(1.16) 


The  velocity  is  the  term  preceding  the  term  in  parenthesis. 
In  the  five  examples  mentioned,  we  find  that  this  velocity  is  proportional 
to  the  area  of  the  impulse  curve  and  inversely  proportional  to  the  mass.     All 

expressions  contain  the  factor  —  and,  since  a  is  the  maximum  force  present, 

this  expression  represents  the  maximum  acceleration  and  it  is  this  value 
which  is  so  frequently  mentioned  when  discussing  the  actions  on  the  shock 
table. 

For  instance,  from  records  we  have  determined  approximate  values  for 
the  time  interval  during  which  the  energy  transfer  from  hammer  to  the  table 
takes  place.  The  high-speed  motion  pictures  are  taken  at  the  rate  of  4,000 
to  5,000  frames  per  second,  which  means  an  average  elapsed  time  of  .22 
milliseconds  or  220  microseconds.  The  energy  transfer  occurs  within  this 
time  interval,  because  the  rate  of  increase  of  the  displacement  from  frame 

to  frame  is  constant.     The  exposure  time  of  one  frame  is  second  or  83 

microseconds.  If  the  anvil  moved  within  this  time  there  would  be  evidence 
of  blurring.  Since  we  have  been  unable  to  detect  any  blurring,  we  may  state 
that  transfer  is  less  than  220)us  yet  more  than  SO^us. 

Let  us  assume  it  to  be  lOO/us.  That  means  a  pulse  width  of  lb  =  lOO/us. 
(See  Fig.  3.) 


664  •   •       BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


then 


—  =  ao  =  acceleration, 


ah  , 

V  =  —    =  aQO 

Ml 


For  a  2000-ft.  pound  shock  the  table  speed  v  is  approximately  7  ft./sec. 
Substituting,  we  find  for  ao  or  the  acceleration 

7  =  aoX  .00005       ' 

or  flo  =  140.000  ft./sec.2 

flo  =  4400  "g"s 

This  is  about  the  order  of  magnitude  which  the  accelerometers  have 
recorded. 

The  important  conclusion  we  draw  from  this  is  that  the  acceleration  and 
its  time  interval  combine  to  produce  a  velocity  of  the  base  which  is  a  com- 
plete criterion  of  the  severity  of  the  shock  administered. 

In  the  example  just  cited  the  weight  of  the  table  is  approximately  800  lbs., 
and  the  force  4400  x  800  =  3,250,000  lbs.  The  result  is,  then,  that  a  tri- 
angular impulse  of  3,520,000  lbs.  magnitude  and  a  duration  of  100/xs  operat- 
ing on  a  table  of  800  lbs.,  imparts  to  that  table  a  velocity  of  7  ft./sec. 

PART  II 

Analysis  or  the  Response 

In  Part  I  the  origin  of  the  motion  of  the  base  has  been  treated.  This  mo- 
tion of  the  base  can  now  be  represented  by  a  pulse  or  a  displacement  as  a 
function  of  time.  To  distinguish  the  displacement-time  function  from  the 
force-time  function,  we  have  already  suggested  the  name  Whip.  Obviously 
some  of  the  pulse  shapes  which  were  used  to  represent  impulses  are  not  suit- 
able as  whips.  For  instance,  the  square  pulse  as  whip  could  not  exist,  since 
this  would  suppose  an  infinite  velocity. 

The  triangular  whip  is  observed  in  the  medium-high-impact  shock  ma- 
chine. The  sine  whip  may  be  taken  to  represent  approximately  the  output 
of  the  light-high-impact  machine. 

The  shifted  cosine  whip  is  sometimes  used  in  the  motion  of  cams  of  auto- 
matic equipment. 

The  problem  of  shock  response  is  now  reduced  to  the  behavior  of  a  mass 
and  spring  system  when  the  base  motion  is  represented  by  a  whip. 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS  665 

Triangular  whip  (Fig.  3b).     The  Laplace  transform  of  this  pulse  is 

The  differential  equation  for  a  simple  harmonic  system  is 

mx+  kx^  0  (1) 

or 

-,-{-x  =  0.  (2) 

If  we  let  the  whip  operate  on  this  system,  then 

4  +  ^  =  /(/)  =  xt{t)  (3) 

in  which  xi{t)  represents  the  displacement  of  the  whip  as  a  function  of  time. 

Let  2lx{t)]  =  X(s) 
and 

J?[x,(0]  =  £[/(/)]  =  F(s)  =  Xi(s) 
then 

m  =  s'xis)  -  sm  -  f\o) 

By  definition  the  initial  conditions  are  zero,  so  that 

^[x]  =  s'X{s)  (4) 

The  Laplace  transform  of  equation  (3)  is  then 

4  X{s)  +  X{s)  =  £[/(/)]  =  X^(s) 
or 

("-J^)  XW  =  X.W.  (5) 

Now 

Substituting  and  rearranging, 

2  /<  -6«\2 


2  /<  -6«\2 

«■>-.-Tl^.?(^^) 


(6) 


666  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

This  is  the  transform  equation.     To  find  x  we  use  the  inverse  Laplace 
transform  and  the  solution  of  (7)  is 


_  00)^  ["/  /   _  sin  coA  _  9  /(^  ~  ^)  _  sin  co(/  —  b)\ 


{t-h) 


^(^/_^_sin^^ 


(7) 


The  expression  u{t  —  h)  simply  means  that  the  term  to  which  it  is  attached 
is  zero  for  all  values  oi  t  <  b. 

Let  us  now  consider  what  this  solution  consists  of. 

There  are  apparently  three  terms  which  take  effect  at  successive  intervals. 

The  initial  whip  can  be  considered  to  consist  of  three  different  displace- 
ments starting  at  successive  times  0,  b  and  2b.  With  the  displacement  of 
the  base  there  is  a  corresponding  displacement  of  the  mass  m.  After  the 
time  b  the  second  term  or  displacement  takes  hold  and  an  associated  dis- 
placement of  mass  m  except  that  the  initial  conditions  are  the  end  conditions 
of  the  first  displacement.  After  the  time  2b  the  third  displacement  enters 
and  the  final  result  is  the  displacement-time  pulse  or  whip.  To  make  the 
problem  somewhat  simpler  we  introduce  the  following  modifications: 

1°.  Because  the  motion  is  a  simple  harmonic  of  known  frequency  after 
the  whip  has  passed  we  will  only  consider  the  maximum  ampHtude. 

2°.  Only  the  displacement-time  function  of  the  mass  m  during  the  pulse 
interval  will  be  examined. 

3°.  The  dimensional  magnitudes  of  the  motion  of  mass  m  will  be  expressed 
as  ratios  of  those  of  the  pulse. 

If  fl  is  the  maximum  ampUtude  of  the  whip,  and  To  =  2b  its  time  interval 
(usually  expressed  in  miUiseconds),  then  we  define 

X 

—=  8        Amplitude  ratio  of  pulse  displacement  and  response  of  mass  m  dur- 
ing pulse  interval  only. 

To       2b         2b    icb  at         j  /•  r  i 

X    ~  T   ~  9~~7 ~  ^        Natural  frequency  of  mass  m  expressed  as  a 

ratio  of  the  pulse  length, 
t 
'^  ~  ji        Elapsed  time  expressed  as  a  ratio  of  the  pulse  length. 

^  =  — -         Ratio  of  maximum  amplitude  to  pulse  displacement  after  pulse 

interval. 
Substituting  these  values  in  equation  (7)  and  rearranging  we  obtain 

«  =  2r  -  ^H^^  _  ,  f(2,  -  1)  _  Sin  M2r  -  1)\  ^^^^  _ 

(8) 


+  ( 2(r  -   t)  -  Si-t  2xv(r  -  1)\  ^(^  _  j^ 

\  Tip  / 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS  667 

This  looks  somewhat  compUcated,  but  we  can  simpHfy  by  omitting  the  last 
term,  because  we  are  only  considering  values  of  8  during  the  pulse  interval. 

,.  6  =  2r  -  ^5if^^  _  2  (  (2r  -  1)  -  ■^^■"'"     ^ti  )  u(2r  -  1)     (9) 


T<p 


_  2  f  (2r  -  1)  -  «igTV^(2r-l)\    ^^^  _  j^ 


A  plot  of  this  equation  for  various  values  of  <p  is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  It  is  seen 
that  5  becomes  a  maximum  when  <p  is  approx.  .9  and  r  is  then  .75.  The  dis- 
placement is  approximately  1.5  times  the  peak  displacement  of  the  whip. 

After  the  whip  has  passed,  or  when  r  >  1,  the  transient  has  disappeared 
and  a  steady-state  condition  exists.  Since  the  system  under  consideration 
is  a  simple  harmonic  system,  the  steady  state  is  a  harmonic  motion  of  fre- 
quency £0,  with  an  amplitude  to  be  obtained  from  equation  (8).  Indicating 
the  dimensionless  values  of  the  ampHtude  by  8a  when  r  >  1,  equation  8  may 
be  written 


sin  lipiTT 
8a  =  2t  —  


.  2  f (2.  -  1)  -  «Je^(?lii1)) 

\  Tip  / 

+  (2(x  -   1)  -  ^i'^  2.^(r  -  1)^^  ^  ^  J 


TTip 

.     .      ,  .,.  (10) 


Tr(p 
After  developing  (10)  and  rearranging  we  obtain 


6.  =  ^^^-""^"^^  sin  M2r  -  1).  (11) 


ircp 
The  maximum  amplitude  is 

2(1  —  cos  Tr<p) 


(12) 


TTip 


A  plot  of  equation  (12)  is  shown  in  Fig.  5.  Before  considering  the  action  of 
this  whip  in  terms  of  what  it  does  to  the  system,  we  shall  take  a  brief  look  at 
the  analysis  of  the  two  other  whips;  viz.,  the  sine  whip  and  shifted  cosine 
whip  (see  Fig.  3). 

Sine  Whip 

We  have  again  equation  (3). 


%-\-  X  =  fit)  =  xiit) 


and  equation  (5) 


C-^') 


X(s)  =  F{s) 


668 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


a, 


I 

bib 


ojqooo^fvjocvj 
""dodo  6 

DISPLACEMENT    DURING   PULSE    PERIOD    _    r.  ' 

PEAK    PULSE    AMPLITUDE  " 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 


669 


From  1.04 


F{s)  = 


aojo 


S     -\-   CCq 

Substituting  (13)  in  (5)  we  obtain 


(1  +  €-"""'). 


X{s)  = 


(Kjl'jjf) 


(j     +   U  )(S     +   Uo) 


(1    +   ,-"'"«). 


(13) 


(14) 


<J      1.6 


0.5  1.0 


1.5  2.0  2.5  3.0  3.5  4.0  4.5 

PULSE    LENGTH  (INTERVAL) 


NATURAL  PERIOD   OF   SYSTEM 


=    ^ 


Fig.    5 — Maximum   amplitude    as  a  function  of  frequency   ratio-steady   state    tri- 
angular whip. 

The  inverse  transform  gives  us 


aco^o)o     r/1 

X    =     -2 2       I  ~   SI 


sm  coq/  —  ~  sin  (at 


/         V^o 


sin  0)0  (t  —  ~) 


coo 


-  sin  CO  (/  -  -)  )  u  (t  -  -)\  (15) 

CO  coo   /  COo   J 


and  dividing  this  into  two  parts  again,  the  transient  and  the  steady  state, 
wp  find  for  the  transient, 

aco-coo     fl      .  1     .        "I 

X  =  -2 2     ~"  sm  COo/  —  ~  sm  o)t 

CO     —   COo   L^o  "  J 

and  substituting  the  dimensionless  quantities 


t/. 


COo 


=  <p 


and 


ir/coo 


we  find 


-    V    ( 
V  - 1  \ 


sin  TTT  —  —  sin  2ir^T 
2(p 


y 


(16) 


670  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

A  plot  of  this  equation  as  a  family  of  curves  for  various  values  of  (p  is  shown 
in  Fig.  6.     It  is  noted  that,  in  general,  this  group  of  curves  resembles  those 
of  Fig.  4  of  the  triangular  whip. 
The  steady  state  is 


dko^ojo  r  1   .  1  . 

X  =  ~2 i     ~  sm  coo  t  —  -sin  co/ 

CO    —  a*o  [_a.'o  <o 


+  -  sm  coo  (/  —  - )  —  ~sm  co  (/  —    - ) 

COo  COo  O)  Wo    J 


(17) 


and,  in  dimensionless  quantities  or  expressed  as  a  ratio  of  the  pulse  dimen- 
sions, we  obtain 

A(p 
da  =  ^  _  ^  2  ^^^  '^^  ^^^  ^'^^('^  -  !)•  (18) 

From  (18)  it  follows  that  the  maximum  ampHtude  of  the  steady  state  is 

.  4:(p  C03  TTif  ,       ^ 

A  plot  of  this  curve  is  shown  in  Fig.  7. 

Shifted  Cosine  Whip. 

The  shifted  cosine  whip  produces  results  of  a  similar  nature.     We  have 
seen  that  the  transform  equation  for  this  whip  is  (1.05) 

Using  equations  (3)  and  (5)  and  transferring  to  dimensionless  quantities,  in 
which 

X  27r/coo  CO  /  COo/ 

-  =  0,  =  (^  =  —^  J   =     —        =       — 

d  1  COo  ZTT/COo  27r 

we  obtain 

^  ^  2(  2  —  I')  \^"  ^'^'^^  ~  "^^  ^^^  ^'^'^ 

(21) 
-  cos  27rvj(r  -  \)u{t  -  1)  +  (^'  co3  27r(r  -  1)w(t  -   1)  j. 

Since  we  are  interested  only  in  the  transient  displacement,  (21)  becomes 

.  ^  (1  -  C03  iTTipr)  -  <p^{l  -  C03  Ittt)  . 

2(1  -  ^2)  V^^j 

A  family  of  curves  showing  8  for  various  values  of  <p  is  shown  in  Fig.  8. 


TRANSIK.MS  L\    MIxIJAMCAL  SVSIEMS 


671 


CD  ^D  '^  ^ 

—  —  —  dodo 

DISPLACEMENT     DURING    PULSE    PERIOD     _    ^ 
PEAK    PULSE    AMPLITUDE 


672 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


The  steady  state  after  the  transient  is  (from  Eq.  21) 


'"    ly^  -  1)  V 


COS  llTlpT   —   (p    COS  llTT 


-  COS  2ir(p{T  -  1)  +  <p'  cos  27r(r  ^  1)) 


which  reduces  to 


ba  =  7 i,  sin  {liTipT  —  TZip). 

1  —  <p^ 


(23) 


< 
1 

2.0 

] 

1 

1.6 

111 

S 

< 
Si  0.8 

a 

$0.4 
0 

0 

^-\ 

> 

/ 

\ 

\ 

III 

/ 

\ 

o 

D 
-1 

a 

1 

X 

< 

2 

/ 

\ 

/- 

\ 

\ 

f 

\ 

r 

\ 

\ 

^ 

0.5 


1.0 


1.5  2.0  2.5  3.0 

PULSE    LENGTH  (INTERVAL) 


3.5 


Fig.  7- 


NATURAL   PERIOD    OF    SYSTEM 

-Maximum  amplitude  as  a  function  of  frequency  ration-steady  state  sine  whip. 


The  maximum  ampUtude  is 


A  = 


sm  -Kip 


(24) 


a  plot  of  which  is  shown  in  Fig.  9. 

Practical  Considerations 

Let  us  now  consider  the  action  of  these  various  whips  in  terms  of  what 
they  do  to  the  system.  The  designer  of  shockmounts  is  primarily  interested 
in  the  displacement  across  the  mount  or  the  relative  displacement  of  base 
and  mass. 

In  Fig.  10  the  relative  transient  displacements  for  four  systems  are  shown 
when  subjected  to  a  triangular  whip.  The  natural  frequencies  are  .4,  1.0, 
1.5,  and  2  times  the  frequency  of  the  whip.  From  this  it  appears  that  the 
maximum  relative  displacement  is  approximately  equal  to  the  maximum 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 


673 


...   ^ 

/ 

•  y 

^\ 

^ 

V 

1 

1 

^* 

-7. 

!  / 

\ 

\^ 

^ 

\ 

1      ( 

1    ; 

-'"" 

"" 

J 

/. 

/ 

^ 

^ 

J 

^^^ 

A" 

\ 

^y^  y 

/ 

/ 

/' 

y 
\ 

^ 

A 

.--'' 

ii< 

If 

X 

^'' 

y^ 

^ 

^■ 

/      1 
1 

1 
1 

/  \ 

o 

y^ 

V 

^ 

\ 

/ 

i 

\ 

Y 

\ 

\/, 

''/' 

Ai 

-  \ 
\ 

/  / 

\ 
\ 

•  ' 

s 

•<t\ 

d  \ 

I  1 
\  1 

1 

1  \ 

H 

\ 

>N 

/ 

\ 

\ 

\    1 

s 

\ 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\    1' 

\       I 

\ 
\ 

^ 

^'' 

\ 

\ 
\ 

N 

s       \ 

\  1 
\  1 

^^ 

s 

N 

A 

\  \ 

M' 

\^ 

^ 

^^^ 
N 

\\ 

.^ 

^ 

A 

S 

^^1 

i! 

1 

1 

' 

o  flO  <o  ^j-  (\j  o  ( 

— ■  6  d  d  d  ( 

DISPLACEMENT    DURING    PULSE    PERIOD    _    r 
PEAK    PULSE    AMPLITUDE 


tn 
a- 


II        <u 
^    3 

-1 13 
<  > 

> . 

Z    fc- 

> 

I  «- 

Z    tn 

Ol    <u 

_l   > 


674 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


whip  displacement.  It  is  also  observed  that  the  large  relative  displacements 
occur  when  the  frequency  of  the  system  is  smaller  than  the  pulse  frequency. 

After  the  transient  has  passed,  the  relative  steady-state  displacement, 
which  is  of  course  equal  to  the  absolute,  obtains  large  values  too. 

From  Fig.  5  we  note  that  a  maximum  of  1.5  is  reached  for  the  triangular 
whip  and  up  to  1.7  times  for  the  sine  whip  (see  Fig.  7)  at  a  frequency  of 
approximately  |  of  the  whip.  Apparently  even  larger  displacements 
across  the  mount  occur  after  the  transient  has  disappeared. 

This  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  11  for  the  same  systems  as  in  Fig.  10. 

As  (f  increases,  which  means  if  the  frequency  of  the  system  increases  with 
respect  to  the  pulse  frequency,  the  displacements  across  the  mounts  diminish, 


2.0 
II 

>-— ^ 

1 

UJ 

> 

o 

t    12 

-J 
a 

< 

-I 

UJ 

a. 

0 

/ 

/ 

\ 

< 
tu 
»- 
tn 

lU 
Q 

D 
t- 
-1 

a 

1 

X 

1 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

-^ 

0.5 


1.5  2.0  2.5  3.0 

Pulse  length  (interval) 
natural  period  of  system 


3.5 


4.0 


4.5 


Fig 
cosine 


9 — Maximum  amplitude  as  a  function  of  frequency  ratio-steady  state  shifted 
whip. 


while  on  the  other  hand  the  acceleration  increases  as  will  be  shown  later  (  ee 
equation  39). 

From  this  it  seems  advantageous  to  select  a  natural  period  of  the  system 
at  least  twice  that  of  the  pulse  frequency. 

The  relative  displacements  are  limited  by  practical  considerations,  such 
as  available  space  between  cabinets  and  bulk  head,  cable  connections,  per- 
sonnel safety  and  others. 

In  the  design  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  radar  equipment,  the  rela- 
tive displacement  has  been  held  to  one-half  inch,  and  the  natural  frequency 
in  the  neighborhood  of  35  to  40  cycles  per  second  or  a  period  of  25  to  30  m.s. 

The  average  of  the  heaviest  shock  administered  to  this  type  of  equipment 
has  a  peak  amplitude  of  1.5  inch  and  a  time  interval  of  approximately  60  m.s. 

From  Fig.  5,  we  find  that  under  these  conditions  a  maximum  relative  dis- 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 


675 


^ 

f'y^': 

fe^ 

0  =  0.4 

^ 

^ 

•  ■.'■■■.■com 

pREs'sidi 

V  ;."■.••;•■.• 

Ik 

k 

••.•.■•.TENSION  ;.;•;• 

0.4 

^ 

•.■•;•■.•'.•. co'mpression  ;'-.': •.■; 

K 

0    =   1.0 

0 

0.4 
0.8 
1.? 

.^^\-  ■  •  ■  • 

'•'.•'.  •  ■ .  •  • 

.■•'.•.'.'•.■ 

• '-  '•  vVv, 

;•••■;••■{/;•: 

TENSION 

w 

"^1 

'}■:■::■:'■■;: 

"" 

^ 

0.8 

0.4 

0  =  1.5 

, 

0 

COM PRE J 

pSIO.N-^^ 

"^^ 

/ 

/^COMPR 

ession"-; 

^ 

"^ 

•■•■•'•■••TEN 

sion;;.:': 

W 

^<<J 

0  a 

0.4 

1 

0  =  2.0 

^?<fCOMPRESSldh 

k 

:^-x'- 

^^^^^^>-v 

0,4 

« 

^^ 

•isI^S 

DNj\>>^ 

"^<;^JEN^Sl'ON^ 

0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0 

ELAPSED   TIME _ 

PULSE    LENGTH    (INTERVAL) 

Fig    10 — Transient  time  displacement  curves  across  the  mount  for  various  values  of  <{> 
triangular  whip. 


676 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


0.8 


0.4 


0.8 


Wm 

•.77?7^'?>«« 

0  =  0.4 

0':''^. 

•:•■.':  ^9.^ 

^PRESSI 

ON-'::;': 

fc: 

^ 

••My 

■••■•■•■•••;•• 

*•■*•*•'■.■'.'." 

■';;.;•':  ;.•;.:•.; 

•r'^^lvS 

<^'.;:  tension':';" 

0.8 
'O  0.4 

UJ 

> 

UJ 

a: 
0.4 


1.6 
0.4 


y/. 

..<-->> 

0=1.0 

.•  •;::::• 

is 

A 

■.•.•.■•.•CO 

MPRESS 

ON  :"::•'••" 

k 

m 

.'\'.\.'\. 

ll\ 

!■:■■•:■'■■. 

;.*•'•.  :•.'•■.• 

•••'.••.•':• 

wj 

•'.■.'  '.•*.• 

TENSION 

■•■••.••':: 

f 

^; 

w 

0.4 


0=  2.0 

• 

0  0.1  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0 

ELAPSED  TIME 

PULSE   LENGTH    (INTERVAL)    ~ 

Fig.  11 — Steady  state  time  displacement  curves  across  the  mount.     Triangular  whip. 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 


677 


placement  of  .42  times  the  peak  pulse  amplitude  or  approximately  f  inch 
may  be  expected. 

Taking  into  consideration  that  the  shock  mount  has  been  designed  with  a 
certain  amount  of  damping,  it  is  thus  possible  to  hold  the  relative  displace- 
ment within  the  boundaries  of  its  shock-absorbing  capacity. 


Fig.  12 — System  with  damping. 


Viscous  Damping 


The  fundamental  differential  equation  for  a  system  with  damping  is  (see 
Fig.  12). 


x+  2fx-\-  (/x  =  0 
If  we  let  a  whip  operate  on  this  system  we  obtain 

X  +  2tx  +  CC'^X  =   03^Xi{t) 


(25) 


(26) 


However,  the  sudden  displacement  of  the  base  also  produces  an  acceleration 
of  the  mass  proportional  to  the  velocity.  If  Xi(t)  is  the  displacement  then 
Xi{t)  may  be  represented  to  be  the  velocity  and  2txi(t)  the  acceleration.  We 
have,  then,  for  the  completed  equation 


x-\-  2tx  +  oy'x  =  Jxiit)  +  2txi(t) 
In  the  Laplacian  terminology,  if 

xiiO  =  Fis) 


(27) 


678  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

then 

xi{t)  —  sF{s)     (initial  value  being  zero) 

The  Laplace  transform  of  equation  (27)  is 

The  solution  of  (28)  is  made  easier  if  it  is  written  in  the  form 

{s  +  ay  +  jS^ 
in  which  • 

a=  I        and         a^  -\-  ^^  =  o)\ 

Subjecting  this  system  to  a  triangular  whip,  of  which  the  Laplace  trans- 
form is 

we  have 

the  solution  of  which  involves  two  transform  pairs.  The  inverse  transform 
gives  us  a  solution  of  the  transient  as  well  as  the  steady  state.  It  has  been 
mentioned  before  that  the  steady  state  produces  the  maximum  displace- 
ments across  the  mount;  therefore  it  will  be  considered  in  more  detail.  We 
find  that  the  steady  state  solution  is 

Xait)  =-^---(  -sin  ^t  +  2e"^  sin  ^(/  -  b)  -  e'"'  sin  ^(/  -  26)  j      (31) 

Which  simplifies  to 

-at 

Xait)  =  V  ^  VWn^)  sin  {(3t  -  e)  (32) 

Using  dimensionless  quantities 


t) 

la                 -i           Xa         ^ 
=  -  =  -         and         —  =  6o 

CO       CO                         a 

and  the  substitution 

VI  -  »,»  =  7, 

we  find  that 

b^  =  boTf  =  TTipy 

TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS 
Equation  (32)  may  now  be  expressed  as 


679 


in  which 


and 


5a  =   —  V{A'  +  J52)  sin  (^7/  -  0)     at  >  2r)Tr(p   (33) 
ir<p 


tame  =  ?■ 
A 


^  =  -1  +  le'^"  cos  7r<py  -  e'"'"'  cos  lircpy 
B  =  2^^"  sin  7r<py  -  e"^^  sin  livipy 


(34) 
(35) 


0.8 


a.  0.4 


r^ 

\ 

1 1 

/ 

\   WITHOUT 
\  DAMPING 

/ 

\ 

WITH    DAMPING 
,'^(^=0.5) 

/,'-' 

--.^^ 

L- 

-^ 

\^. 

.^. 

^.. 

0.5 


1.0 


.5  2.0  2.5  3.0 

PULSE    LENGTH  (INTERVAL) 


3.5  4.0 


4.5 


NATURAL   PERIOD    OF   SYSTEM 

Fig.  13 — Effect  of  damping  on  steady  state  amplitude  for  triangular  whip. 
From  equation  {^3)  we  obtain  the  maximum  displacement 


at  >  2'r]'K<p 


in  which 


5.0 


(36) 


at  —  -\  tan  ^  -  +  tan  ^  —  )  at  >  ^-q-Kip 

7  \  ?7  AJ 


In  Fig.  13  a  plot  of  equation  (36)  is  shown  for  t;  =  .5.     This  indicates  that 
the  peak  value  of  A  is  .24  as  compared  to  1.48  when  no  damping  is  present. 

Accelerations 


The  transient  accelerations  of  the  mass  m  during  the  whip  action  and  the 
subsequent  steady  state  may  be  found  by  examining  the  acceleration  during 
the  first  part  of  a  triangular  whip.     Designating  the  velocity  of  displacement 


680  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

of  the  whip  by  v  the  expression  for  x  may  be  formed  from  equation  (7)  by 
setting  /  <  h. 

t<  b  (37) 


aoi   f  t         smcot\ 

and,  since  -r  =  v 

0 

V     . 
X  =  vt  —  -  sm.  ojt 

CO 

whence 

X  =  vco  sin  cot 

and  the  maximum 

acceleration  is 

Ao  =  vco 

Let 

—    =  Xo  then  Xo  =  1 

(38) 


(39) 


VCO 

By  proceeding  in  a  similar  manner  with  the  next  step  of  the  whip  the  value 
of  the  acceleration  ratio  will  be  found  to  be 

Xo  =  3 

and  for  the  completed  whip  or  steady  state 

Xo=  4 

The  expression  ^o  =  Xofco  is  an  important  factor  in  shock  considerations. 
Thus  we  have  a  simple  relation  for  the  final  maximum  amplitude  of  the  periodic 
acceleration  of  the  mass  m  when  subjected  to  a  triangular  whip;  viz.,  it  is 
four  times  the  product  of  whip  velocity  and  natural  frequency  of  the  system. 
The  constant  Xo  depends  upon  the  configuration  of  the  whip;  the  velocity 
V  indicates  the  intensity  of  the  whip;  while  co  expresses  the  kind  of  response 
the  system  is  capable  of. 

It  is  of  interest  to  note  that  this  maximum  periodic  value  of  ^o  will  be  pro- 
duced only  if  the  ratio  of  pulse  frequency  and  natural  frequency  is  of  the 
correct  value.  It  is  difficult  to  produce  shocks  on  existing  equipment  of 
exactly  the  same  characteristics  within  narrow  limits  as  to  time  duration 
and  therefore  it  must  expected  that  a  considerable  variation  in  damage 
may  occur  even  though  similar  shocks  are  administered  to  identical  test 
objects.     For  the  same  reason  a  shock  of  lower  intensity  may  produce 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS  681 

more  damage  than  a  higher  one  because  impulse  amplitude  as  well  as  dura- 
tion change  at  the  same  time. 

Although  damping  is  a  highly  desirable  feature  in  a  shock  mount,  the 
damping  device  may  cause  a  certain  amount  of  coupling  between  the  mass  and 
the  base,  and  if  too  much  damping  is  provided  the  transient  acceleration  of 
the  mass  may  become  excessive. 

The  analysis  of  this  problem  by  means  of  the  Laplace  transforms  is  not 
difficult,  for  we  can  use  results  previously  obtained.  The  transform  equa- 
tion for  a  system  with  damping,  subjected  to  a  whip,  is 

w2  +  2as 

in  which  F{s)  represents  the  transform  of  the  disturbance  or  excitation. 
Since  we  are  interested  in  the  effect  of  the  damping  or  rj  upon  the  response, 
only  the  first  part  of  the  triangular  whip  will  be  considered. 

In  this  case 

Xi(t)  —  vl 

and 


iS[xr(t)\  =  F{s)  =  '-.  (41) 


Substituting  (41)  in  (40) 


v(o3^  4-  las) 

If  X(s)  is  the  transform  of  x{t),  a  displacement,  then  the  acceleration  is  x(i) 
or  g(t)j  (x(t)  =  g{t)  by  definition)  and 

^[x{t)]  =  ^\g{t)\  =  s'Xs 

Substitution  in  (42)  gives 

2 

s'Xis)  =  2va  ,     .      ,/^    ,,  (43) 


{s  +  ay  +  ^ 


Now  .£-n^'^(^)l  =  g(i) 
so  that 


g{t) 


=   T  [(i  "  « J  +  P']  ^-"  sin  {fit  +  f )  (44) 


682 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


0       0.2      0.4      0.6      0.8       1.0       1.2        1.4       1.6        1.8      2.0      2.2      2.4      2.6      2.8      3.0      3.2 
CIRCULAR     DISPLACEMENT  -  9q 


Fig.  14 — Transient  acceleration  during  initial  part  of  triangular  whip. 


Letting 


and 


=  \ 


Vy 


(iit   = 


=    CO  Vl 


,2    = 


CO7 


Substituting 


in  which 


X  =    sin  (X^o  +  lA) 

7 


(45) 


tan  \p  = 


'7/7 


1   -  2rf 

Figure  14  is  a  plot  of  X  against  ^o  for  various  values  of  r;.  It  is  noted  that 
for  7]  —  .5  of  critical  damping  the  initial  acceleration  is  equal  to  the  un- 
damped, X  being  one. 

The  data  presented  here  are  also  applicable  to  long  duration  pulses,  be- 
cause the  final  results  have  been  given  in  dimensionless  quantities,  the  units 
of  measurement  being  those  of  the  pulse. 

Symbols  Used 

Mass m 

Mass  of  base nn 

Spring   stiffness k 


TRANSIENTS  IN  MECHANICAL  SYSTEMS  683 

Displacement  mass x,  x{t) 

Displacement     base .n,  Xi(t) 

Force  on  base F,  F(l) 

Velocity  of  base v 

Acceleration  of  base (h  ,  Xi 

Acceleration    of    mass    m x,  x{i),  g{t) 

Maximum  acceleration  of  the  mass  m Aq 

An 

Maximum   acceleration   ratio Xo   =     - 

Acceleration   ratio X  =  ^^ 

Natural  frequency  of  mass  m  (circular) co,  )3o 

Circular   (angular)   displacement wt  =  do 

Frequency  of  sinusiode  of  which  pulse  consists  (not  pulse  frequency) coo 

Peak  pulse  displacement a 

Pulse  period  (triangular) 2b] 

(sme  pulse) —  j  ^ 

coo  y  1 0 

(shifted  cosine  pulse) — 

COo 

Period  of  mass  m T 

displacement  during  pulse  period  _  ^   _  * 

peak  pulse  am.plitude  a 

amplitude  steady  state  _ 


8a 


=    T 


peak  pulse  amplitude 
max.  ampUtude  steady  state  _ 
peak  pulse  amplitude 
elapsed  time  _  t      t/ir    t/lw      t 

pulse  length  (interval)        '  '  26  '   coo  '    ojo    'To 

pulse  length  (interval)  To  _ 

; • (p 

natural  period  of  system                                                                       T 
Damping  coefficient I,  a 

Critical  damping  ratio —  =»? 

Transform   of   x{t)    = X{s) 

"  xid)    = X,(s) 

"  F{i)    = Fo(s) 

"/(O     = ^  Fis) 

f(t)  represents  any  function  of  /,  without  reference  to  its  dimensional 
magnitude. 


Maximally-flat  Filters  in  Waveguide 

By  W.  W.  MUMFORD 

Microwave  radio  relay  repeaters  require  the  use  of  band-pass  filters  which 
match  closely  the  impedances  of  the  interconnecting  transmission  lines  and  which 
suppress  adjacent  channels  adequately.  A  type  of  structure  called  a  Maximally- 
Flat  filter  meets  these  requirements. 

The  ladder  network  which  gives  a  maximally-flat  insertion  loss  characteristic 
is  discussed  and  several  methods  of  achieving  its  counterpart  in  microwave  trans- 
mission lines  are  presented.  Resonant  cavities  are  used  to  simulate  tuned  circuits 
and  the  necessary  formulas  relative  to  this  approximate  equivalence  are  given. 

Experimental  data  confirm  the  theory  and  show  that  this  technique  yields 
remarkable  impedance  matches. 

Introduction 

"1 T /"E  USUALLY  associated  the  word  filter  with  any  device  which  is  selec- 
^  ^  tive.  The  electric  wave  filter  has  that  property  which  enables  it  to 
transmit  energy  in  one  band  or  bands  of  frequencies  and  to  inhibit  energy  in 
other  bands.  Selectivity  is  the  result  of  either  selective  absorption^  •  ^* 
or  selective  reflection.  This  paper  discusses  a  special  case  of  the  classical 
lossless  transducer  which  derives  its  selective  properties  entirely  from  selec- 
tive reflection.  The  insertion  loss  of  this  type  of  filter  can  be  analyzed  in 
terms  of  the  input  reflection  coefficient  and  the  input  standing  wave  ratio. 

In  many  applications  of  lossless  filters  it  is  desirable  to  obtain  a  character- 
istic such  that  the  insertion  loss,  and  hence  the  reflection  coefficient,  is  small 
over  as  wide  a  band  as  possible.  A  special  case  described  here,  referred  to 
as  a  maximally-flat  filter,  has  a  loss  characteristic  such  that  a  maximum 
number  of  its  derivatives  are  zero  at  midband.  While  the  maximally-flat 
type  of  characteristic  does  not  give  the  smallest  possible  reflections  over  a 
finite  pass  band,  it  does  give  small  reflections,  and  has  added  advantages  of 
simplicity  in  design  and  in  many  cases  less  transient  distortion  than  filters 
giving  smaller  reflections. 

The  desirable  characteristics  of  maximally-flat  filters  have  long  been 
realized.^-'  Mr.  W.  R.  Bennett^  of  these  Laboratories  derived  the  con-, 
stants  for  a  maximally-flat  ladder  network  in  the  late  20's,  and  gave  simple 
expressions  for  the  element  values.  Butterworth,^  Landon^  and  Wallman^ 
have  treated  maximally-flat  filter-amplifiers  in  which  the  filter  sections  are 
separated  by  amplifier  tubes.  Darlington*  has  considered  the  general  case 
of  four  terminal  filters  which  have  insertion  loss  characteristics  that  can  be 
prescribed,  but  he  places  the  emphasis  more  on  filters  that  have  tolerable 

*  A  list  of  selected  references  appears  at  the  end  of  the  paper. 

684 


MAXIMALLY-FLA T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  685 

ripples  in  the  pass-band  than  on  maximally-flat  structures.  The  work  of 
Bennett  will  be  followed  closely  not  only  because  it  came  first,  but  also  be- 
cause it  is  easy  to  understand. 

Bennett  expresses  the  values  of  the  filter  branches  in  terms  of  their  cutoff 
frequencies,  which  in  turn  bear  a  relationship  to  the  cutoff  frequencies  of  the 
total  filter.  In  the  language  of  one  who  is  familiar  with  microwave  tech- 
nique,^ ,  10 ,  11 ,  12  |-j^g  values  of  the  filter  branches  can  be  expressed  in  terms  of 
the  loaded  Q's  of  the  cavities,  which  in  turn  bear  a  relationship  to  the  loaded 
Q  of  the  total  filter.  A  simple  mathematical  expression  connects  the  loaded 
Q  to  the  cutoff  wavelengths. 

At  low  frequencies  the  band-pass  maximally-flat  filter  is  .made  up  of 
resonant  branches  connected  alternately  in  series  and  in  parallel.  The 
microwave  analogue  of  this  configuration  is  obtained  by  the  use  of  shunt 
resonant  cavities  that  are  spaced  approximately  a  quarter  wavelength  apart 
in  the  waveguide.  Use  is  made  of  the  impedance  inverting  property  of  a 
quarter  wave  Hne,  thereby  eliminating  the  necessity  of  using  both  series  and 
parallel  branches. 

The  resonant  cavity  in  the  waveguide  resembles  a  shunt  resonant  tuned 
circuit,^^  but  is  different  in  several  minor  respects.  An  analysis  of  these 
differences  reveals  the  corrective  measures  that  are  necessary  in  order  that 
the  simulation  shall  be  sufficiently  accurately  attained. 

The  first  part  of  the  paper  deals  with  the  concepts  of  loaded  Q  and  reso- 
nant filter  branches  of  both  the  series  and  the  parallel  types.  Admittance 
and  impedance  functions,  as  well  as  expressions  for  the  insertion  loss,  are 
given  using  these  terms,  and  the  relationship  between  loaded  Q  and  cutoff 
frequencies  is  stated.  This  concept  of  loaded  Q  is  then  introduced  to  de- 
scribe the  performance  of  a  complete  maximally-flat  filter  in  terms  of  its 
cutoff  frequencies.  The  insertion  loss  is  then  given  as  a  simple  expression 
containing  the  total  Q  and  the  resonant  frequency.  The  ^'s  of  all  the 
branches  are  derived  from  the  total  Q  in  simple  terms.  The  connection  be- 
tween the  insertion  loss  and  the  input  standing  wave  ratio  is  then  discussed 
before  turning  to  the  actual  design  problem. 

Next  the  paper  deals  with  the  application  of  the  filter  theory  to  wave- 
guide technique.  The  limitations  of  the  quarter-wave  coupling  lines  are 
pointed  out  and  the  added  selectivity  due  to  them  is  derived. 

Then  the  paper  compares  microwave  resonant  cavities  with  parallel- 
tuned  circuits.  Formulas  are  given  which  relate  the  geometrical  configura- 
tion to  the  loaded  Q,  the  resonant  frequency  and  the  excess  phase  of  the 
cavities.  Three  types  of  cavities  are  treated:  those  using  inductive  posts, 
inductive  irises  and  capacitive  irises. 

Finally,  the  measured  results  on  a  four-cavity  maximally-flat  filter  in  1"  X 
2"  waveguide  are  presented  and  compared  with  the  original  design  points. 


686  BELL  S  YSTEM  TECHNICA  L  JO  URN  A  L 

As  a  further  confirmation  of  the  theory,  the  experimental  results  on  another 
and  longer  waveguide  filter  consisting  of  fifteen  resonant  cavities  and  four- 
teen connecting  fines  are  given.  The  conclusion  is  reached  that  maximally- 
flat  waveguide  filters  can  be  designed  to  have  excellent  impedance  match 
and  ofi"-band  suppression  qualities. 

Notation 

a  Width  of  waveguide. 

b  Height  of  waveguide. 

B  NormaHzed  susceptance. 

c  Velocity  of  fight  in  free  space. 

Cr  Capacitance  in  the  r*    branch  of  a  filter. 

d  Width  of  iris  opening. 

d  Diameter  of  post  in  waveguide. 

d  A  small  number  <<C  1. 

€  Base  of  natural  logarithms. 

/  Frequency, 

/o  Resonant  frequency. 

fc  Frequency  at  half  power  point. 

few  Cutoff  frequency  of  waveguide. 

G  Terminating  conductance  of  filter. 

•  ¥ 

K  Susceptance  parameter. 

/  Length  of  transmission  line. 

/'  Length  of  fine  corresponding  to  excess  phase  of  cavity. 

4  Length  of  line  connecting  two  cavities. 
Xo  Resonant  wavelength. 

Xc  Wavelength  at  half  power  point. 

\g  Wavelength  in  transmission  line. 

Xa  Wavelength  in  free  space. 

Lr  Inductance  in  r*^  branch  of  a  filter. 

m  An  integer,  including  zero. 

n  Number  of  branches  in  filter. 

Po  Available  power. 

Pl  Power  delivered  to  load. 

Q  Loaded  Q.    The  selectivity  of  a  loaded  circuit. 

Qr  Loaded  Q  of  the  r**"  branch. 

Qt  Loaded  Q  of  the  total  filter. 

R  Terminating  resistance  of  the  filter. 

s  Distance  from  center  of  waveguide. 

5  Voltage  standing  wave  ratio. 


MAXIMALLY-FLAT  FILTERS  IN  WAVEGUIDE 


687 


T  Thickness  of  iris. 

Vynax  Maximum  voltage  on  transmission  line. 

Vmin  Minimum  voltage  on  transmission  line. 

0)  Angular  frequency. 

12  Frequency  parameter. 

Y  Admittance. 

Fo  Surge  admittance  of  transmission  line. 

Z  Impedance. 

Zq  Surge  impedance  of  transmission  line. 


Yn 

Yn-1 

THE    Y'S   ARE   USED   TO    DENOTE 
GENERALIZED    ADMITTANCE    FUNCTIONS 

Fig.  1^ — Block  diagram  of  a  filter  consisting  of  a  ladder  network. 


Fig.  2 — ^Schematic  diagram  of  a  low-pass  filter. 


General 

The  art  of  designing  filters  which  utilize  lumped  elements  is  well  known. 
Desirable  characteristics  may  be  obtained  by  means  of  a  ladder  network  of 
generalized  admittances,  such  as  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  1.  In  particular  a 
low-pass  filter  takes  the  configuration  shown  in  Fig.  2,  and  a  band-pass  filter 
that  of  Fig.  3.  In  either  case,  certain  frequency  selectivity  characteristics 
can  be  obtained  when  the  individual  branches  are  assigned  definite  values. 
The  individual  branches,  LiCi ,  L2C2 ,  in  the  bandpass  filter  consist  of  an 
inductance,  Lr ,  and  capacity,  Cr ,  in  series  or  shunt.  For  the  specific  case 
to  be  discussed  in  this  paper,  namely  a  filter  consisting  of  lossless  elements 
intended  for  insertion  between  a  source  having  an  internal  resistance  R 
and  a  receiver  having  the  same  resistance,  analysis  is  simplified  if  a  branch 
is  described  in  terms  of  its  resonant  frequency  and  its  loaded  Q*    The 

*  The  loaded  Q  of  a  resonant  branch  in  such  a  filter  is  the  reciprocal  of  its  percentage 
band  width  measured  to  the  half  power  points  when  that  branch  alone  is  fed  by  the  same 
generator  and  has  the  same  load  resistance  as  that  of  the  total  filter. 


688 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL'' JOURNAL 


resonant  frequency  of  a  branch  is  independent  of  the  terminal  resistance  and 
is  given  by  the  relation 

The  loaded  Q  of  the  branch,  to  be  designated  ^^ ,  is  a  function  not  only  of  the 
inductance  and  capacitance  in  the  branch,  but  also  of  the  resistance,  R,  of 
the  terminations  on  the  filter.  For  the  series  resonant  branches,  it  is  given 
by 

1       .    /Lr         coo  Lr 

~2R 


Qr    = 


2R  T  CV 
and  for  the  parallel  resonant  branches 


(2) 


(3) 


Fig.  3 — Schematic  diagram  of  a  band-pass  filter. 


It  may  be  noted  that  the  loaded  Q  can  be  defined  in  terms  of  the  insertion 
loss  iir posed  by  connecting  the  branch  between  a  source  and  receiver  each 
of  resistance  R.     Analysis  of  such  a  circuit  shows  that 


g--«:a-'7)' 


(4) 


where  /  is  the  frequency; 

Po  is  the  power  available  from  a  generator  which  has  an  internal 

resistance  R; 
Pl  is  the  power  delivered  through  the  inserted  branch  to  a  load  of 
resistance  R. 
At  the  cutoff  frequency,  fc ,  defined  as  the  frequency  at  which  the  power 

Po 


,    delivered  to  the  load  is  half  the  available  power,  —  =  2,  whence 

Pl 


Qr   = 


1 

= 

/o 

fc         /o 

/o       /. 

(5) 


MAXIMALLY-FLAT  FILTERS  IN  WAVEGUIDE 


689 


Written  in  terms  of  the  wavelengths  this  becomes 

Xo 


1 


(6) 


This  equation  is  a  convenient  one  to  use  later  in  the  discussion  on  resonant 
cavities. 

The  normalized  admittance  of  a  single-shunt  branch  terminated  by  a  re- 
sistance R  can  be  expressed  in  terms  of  its  resonant  frequency  and  its  Q; 
thus 


YR=  1+  J2Q, 


a-f)- 


(7) 


Similarly,  the  normahzed  impedance  of  a  single-series  branch  terminated 
by  a  resistance  R  can  be  written 


R 


=    ^+J2Qr['T 


iir'i)^ 


(8) 


The  use  of  the  term  loaded  Q  thus  has  the  advantage  that  expressions  for 
normalized  admittance  and  normalized  impedance  of  shunt  and  series  reso- 
nant circuits  respectively  are  identical,  as  are  also  the  corresponding  expres- 
sions for  their  insertion  loss  functions. 

Loss  functions  of  complete  filters  can  likewise  be  expressed  in  terms  of  a 
loaded  Q  defined  for  the  complete  filter.  For  example,  the  loss  function  of 
the  particular  type  of  filter  called  a  "Maximally-flat"  filter  is  given"* 


=  1  + 


r^- 

_/ol 

/« 

/ 

/c 

/o 

L/o' 

fc 

(9) 


where  n  is  the  number  of  resonant  branches  in  the  filter,  and/,  is  the  cutoff 
frequency  of  the  filter  (half  power  points). 

In  consequence  of  the  concept  of  loaded  Q  of  the  total  filter,  the  loss 
function  can  be  expressed  as 

Po 
Pl 
where  the  total  Qt  oi  the  filter  is 

1 


1  + 


Hi-'M 


(10) 


Qt  = 


(11) 


690 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


For  convenience,  the  bracketed  term  of  equation  9  may  be  called  12,  a 
frequency  parameter,  whence 


./o       U  -1 
and  the  loss  function  becomes 


(12) 


^  =  1  +  (ur. 

XL 


(13) 


20 


0.2 


0.1 


■ 

■ 

1 

_^_ 

— ^ 

*" 



^ 

^ 

y 

y 

^ 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

J 

/ 

/ 

i 

f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

f 

0.1       0.2    0.4  0.6     1  10  lO*^  10^  lO'* 

Fig.  4^-Insertion  loss  of  maximally-flat  filters. 

Maximally-Flat  Filters 

The  loss  function  for  maximally-flat  filters  as  given  in  equation  13  is 
plotted  in  Fig.  4  where  the  insertion  loss  in  db  is  used  on  the  ordinate  and 
12"  is  used  on  the  abscissa. 

The  ladder  network  which  gives  rise  to  this  loss  function  consists  of  n 
resonant  branches,  as  shown  in  Fig.  3,  that  are  all  tuned  to  the  same  fre- 
quency, but  whose  selectivities,  or  loaded  Q's,  are  tapered  from  one  end  of 
the  filter  to  the  other  according  to  the  positive  imaginary  parts  of  the  In 
roots  of  -  1,  according  to  the  theories  of  Bennett^  and  DarUngton.^  These 
roots  are  expressed  thus 


sin 


\     In     ) 


MA  XI MA LL Y-FLA  T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  691 

where  r  is  the  number  of  the  root,  n  is  the  total  number  of  branches.     Thus 
the  selectivities  of  the  branches  follow  the  relation 


;m  I  — ) 

\     2n     J 


Qr  =  C^^sin^^-^^-Jir  (14) 

where  Qt  represents  the  selectivity  of  the  total  filter,  and  Qr  represents  the 
required  selectivity  of  the  r*^  branch,  e.g.,  the  selectivities  of  the  first,  second 
and  third  branches  are 

ft  =  Q^  sing  (15) 

ft  =  ft  sing. 

This  type  of  filter  is  particularly  practical  when  a  filter  is  required  to  give 
more  than  a  certain  amount  of  insertion  loss  in  an  adjacent  band,  and  less 
than  another  certain  amount  of  insertion  loss  at  the  edges  of  the  pass-band. 
Putting  this  information  in  equation  10  gives  two  equations  containing  two 
unknowns,  Qt  ,  the  selectivity  of  the  total  filter,  and  n,  the  number  of 
branches  needed  to  fulfill  the  stated  requirements.  The  solution  for  n 
may  be  fractional,  in  which  event  the  next  higher  integral  value  of  n  is 
chosen,  and  this  value  is  used  to  determine  the  selectivity,  Qr  ,  of  the  filter. 
From  this,  the  selectivities  of  all  the  branches  are  determined  in  accordance 
with  equation  14. 

Standing  Wave  Ratio 

An  alternative  way  of  specifying  filter  performance  is  to  refer  to  the  input 
impedance  mismatch  as  a  function  of  frequency.  The  impedance  mis- 
match can  be  expressed  in  terms  of  the  direct  and  the  reflected  waves  and  in 
terms  of  the  standing  wave  ratio  that  exists  along  the  transmission  line  that 
connects  the  properly  terminated  filter  with  its  generator.  The  standing 
wave  ratio  and  the  insertion  loss  of  a  filter  bear  a  definite  relationship  to 
each  other  if  the  filter  is  composed  of  purely  reactive  elements.  This  rela- 
tionship is  given  by  the  formula 

Po       (S  +  If 


Pl  45 


(16) 


y 

where  5  is  the  standing  wave  ratio,  ^rp^,  of  the  maximum  voltage  to  the 

'   min 

minimum  voltage  as  measured  along  the  transmission  line. 


692 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


When  the  filter  characteristic  is  given  by  equation  13,  the  relationship  be- 
tween 12,  the  frequency  parameter,  and  the  standing  wave  ratio  can  be  ex- 
pressed as 

i^T  =   2^  .  (17) 

This  is  shown  graphically  in  Fig.  5,  where  the  standing  wave  ratio  is  given 
in  db  (  20  logio  -^f^ ).     This  graph  is  used  as  an  aid  in  the  design  of  filters  of 


100 
80 
60 

40 


20 


O 
til 
O   10 


Z     8 

> 
4 


< 

z 
< 

W  1.0 
1-0.8 

a  0.6 

z 

0.4 


0.2 


0.01       0.02      0.04 


4       6    8  10  20  40    60      100 


0.1  0.2         0.4  0.6      1.0  2 

Fig.  5 — Input  standing  wave  ratio  of  maximally-flat  filters. 

this  type,  where  the  requirements  are  given  in  terms  of  the  standing  wave 
ratio.  From  this  information  the  number  of  filter  branches  and  the  selec- 
tivity of  the  total  filter  can  be  determined,  either  from  equation  17  or  from 
Fig.   5. 

Distributed  Branches 

It  has  been  assumed  that  the  mutual  impedances  of  successive  branches 
are  all  zero.  At  low  frequencies  this  limitation  may  not  be  a  serious  one 
and  the  practical  realization  of  the  expected  filter  characteristics  is  accom- 
plished by  shielding  properly  one  branch  from  another.     However,  as  the 


MAXIMALLY-FLA T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  693 

frequency  is  increased  it  becomes  difficult  to  isolate  the  branches  and  unde- 
sirable mutual  impedances  arise  which  complicate  the  problem.  In  par- 
ticular, in  the  microwave  region,  where  waveguides  are  used,  the  physical 
size  of  each  branch  may  be  large  compared  with  the  wavelength  and  it  is 
then  impossible  to  lump  all  the  branches  at  one  place  in  the  waveguide  with- 
out encountering  the  complicated  effect  of  mutual  impedances. 

A  practical  way  of  circumventing  this  difficulty  is  to  distribute  the  branch 
circuits  along  the  transmission  hne  or  waveguide  at  such  distances  that  the 
mutual  impedances  become  negligible.  Then,  however,  the  lengths  of 
transmission  Hne  act  as  transducers,  but  since  their  properties  are  well  under- 
stood and  readily  calculable  this  appears  to  be  a  practical  solution.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  the  impedance  transforming  properties  of  a  length  of  trans- 
mission line  can  be  used  to  advantage.^- ^'^' ^"^  For  instance,  it  is  well 
known  that  a  quarter  wavelength  of  lossless  line  transforms  a  load  imped- 
ance according  to  the  relation 

Z=^  (18) 

where  Zq  is  the  surge  impedance  of  the  line  and  Zz,  is  the  load  impedanc  \ 

Hence  if  the  load  impedance  consists  of  a  series  resonant  circuit  contain- 
ing an  inductance,  a  capacity  and  a  resistance  equal  to  Zq  in  series,  the  im- 
pedance at  the  input  end  of  the  quarter  wavelength  of  line  is  given 

The  input  admittance  is 

F=  ^»[l+i2e(^^--j)]-  (20) 

As  can  be  seen  from  equation  7,  this  is  identical  with  the  input  admittance 
of  a  parallel  tuned  circuit  whose  terminating  conductance  is 

G  =  Fo.  (21) 

The  quarter-wave  line  likewise  transforms  a  parallel  circuit  to  a  series 
circuit,  as  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  6.  This  property  of  the  quarter-wave  line 
thus  makes  it  possible  to  simulate  a  ladder  network  of  alternate  series  and 
shunt  branches  by  spacing  shunt  branches  (or  series  branches)  at  quarter 
wavelength  intervals  along  a  transmission  Une,  as  illustrated  in  Fig.  7. 
The  resonant  frequencies  and  the  selectivities  of  the  branches  are  chosen  as 
before. 


694 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Sometimes  in  practice  a  quarter  wavelength  may  not  be  sufficient  spacing 
to  avoid  mutual  impedances  arising  between  adjacent  elements,  in  which 
event  the  connecting  line  may  be  increased  to  a  higher  odd  multiple  of  quar- 
ter wavelength.     This  accentuates  the  frequency  sensitivity  of  the  connect- 


L 

o — nsw^ 


h*i 


Yo      E 


Zo 


•Zo 


Z'=Zo2Yo(l+j2rL) 


Fig.  6 — Illustrating  the  impedance  inverting  property  of  a  quarter  wavelength  of  trans- 
mission line. 

LUMPED  CONSTANT   FILTER   USING    SERIES   &  SHUNT   ELEMENTS 


■Pon.^n 


LUMPED    CONSTANT   FILTER    USING    ONLY   SHUNT  ELEMENTS 


Fig.  7 — Simulation  of  ladder  network  by  shunt  branches  at  quarter  wave  intervals. 

ing  line,  but  this  efifect  can  be  taken  into  account  by  decreasing  the  selectiv- 
ities  of  the  branches  themselves  by  appropriate  amounts.  In  narrow-band 
filters  this  may  be  negligible,  but  in  broad-band  filters  it  may  be  consider- 
able, as  shown  in  the  following  analysis. 

Selectivity  of  Connecting  Lines 
Consider  a  length  of  transmission  line  having  a  surge  impedance  Zo  = 

—  and  terminated  in  a  parallel  resonant  circuit  containing  an  inductance,  a 


MA XI MA  LL Y-FLA  T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  695 

capacitance  and  a  resistance  equal  to  Zq  ,*  as  in  Fig.  6.     The  terminating 
admittance  is  given  by  the  relation  (See  Eq.  7  and  9) 

Yl=  Fo(l+i212).  (22) 

The  input  admittance  at  the  end  of  the  length  of  line,  (,  (nominally  a  quar- 
ter wavelength  long)  is  given  by  the  relation 


where 


—  =  (1  +  j2n)  cos  g  +  ;  sin  ^ 
Fo        cos  6  ^-  j{\  -{-  j2n)  sin  6 


^  =  length  of  line 
X  =  wavelength 


(23) 


a  =  Q 


(H) 


letting 


^  =  ^  (1  +  5)   =  ^  +  ^^  (24) 

cos^=-sin^^^  -^^  (25) 

sin  ^  =  cos  '^  =  1  (26) 

where  6  is  a  number  small  compared  with  1.     Then  the  admittance  becomes 

This  is  the  normalized  input  admittance  of  a  circuit  as  shown  in  Fig.  8, 
where  each  end  of  an  ideally  inverting  hne  is  shunted  by  a  tuned  circuit 

whose  normalized  admittance  is  7  —  . 

9   / 
From  Eq.  24,  setting  -—  =  ;:,  it  follows  that 

Ao  2 


'-(i-o-a-!)"- 


(28) 


*  More  generally,  the  terminating  admittance  can  assume  any  value  without  affecting 
the  result. 


696 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


From  equation  7,  the  admittance  of  the  circuit  is  expressed  in  terms  of  its 
selectivity,  thus 


ii-% 


(29) 


Solving  for  the  selectivity  of  this  circuit,  from  Equations  28  and  29: 


Q  =  ^ 


(30) 


The  selectivity  of  the  coupling  line  can  hence  be  counteracted  by  sub- 
tracting  -  from  the  selectivities  of  the  branches  associated  with  it,  provided 


Fig.  8— Schematic  diagram  illustrating  that  the  selectivity  of  a  quarter  wavelength 
of  line  can  be  represented  by  adding  a  tuned  circuit  to  each  end  of  an  ideally  inverting 
impedance  transformer. 

the  coupling  Une  is  a  quarter  wavelength  long.     If  it  becomes  necessary  to 

use  f  wavelength  coupUng  lines,  the  selectivity  of  the  line  is  tripled  and  — - 

o 

is  subtracted  from  the  selectivities  of  the  associated  branches. 


Resonant  Cavities 

The  foregoing  analysis  reviews  the  principles  of  the  design  of  filters  which 
use  lumped-constant  circuits  distributed  along  a  transmission  line.  These 
principles  can  be  applied  to  the  design  of  filters  in  waveguides,  coaxial  lines, 
or  any  other  types  of  transmission  lines,  provided  that  these  lines  are  suffi- 
ciently lossless,  the  band  is  sufficiently  narrow  and  the  branches  themselves 
are  realizable.  In  the  microwave  region  the  first  two  provisions  are  usually 
met  without  difficulty,  as  is  also  the  third  provision  when  circuits  with  dis- 
tributed constants  are  used.  It  may  be  difficult  to  construct  a  coil  and  a 
condenser  circuit  for  microwaves,  but  easy  to  construct  a  resonant  cavity 
which  displays  some  of  the  desirable  properties  of  the  tuned  circuit.  Reso- 
nant cavities  are  similar  to  lumped  tuned  circuits  in  two  respects. ^^  •  ^^  They 
transmit  a  band  of  frequencies  and  they  introduce  a  phase  shift.  An  ap- 
proximate equivalence  is  demonstrated  in  Appendix  I,  and  is  illustrated  in 
Fig.  9,  which  depicts  a  resonant  cavity  as  being  nearly  identical  with  a 


MAXIMALLY-FLAT  FILTERS  IN  WAVEGUIDE 


697 


tuned  circuit  situated  across  the  middle  of  a  short  length  of  transmission 
line.  This  short  length  of  transmission  Une  is  added  in  order  to  account  for 
an  excess  of  phase  shift  associated  with  the  resonant  cavity,  but  it  can  read- 
ily be  absorbed  in  the  connecting  line  which  otherwise  would  have  been  an 
odd  quarter  wavelength  long. 

The  similarity  between  resonant  cavities  and  resonant  lumped  circuits 
enables  one  to  use  the  known  art  of  designing  lumped  element  filters  to  de- 


RESONANT 
CAVITY 


Z  +  2Z  =-^ 

Fig.  9 — A  resonant  cavity  is  approximately  equivalent  to  a  resonant  circuit  shunted 
across  a  short  length  of  transmission  line. 


Yq  line 


TAN 


2tt£ 


Q  = 


ARC  TAN  -|- 


Vb44-  4B2 


ARC  TAN 


2  ARC  SIN 


Vb'*  +  4B2 


Fig.  10— The  resonant  wavelength  and  the  loaded  Q  of  a  cavity  depend  upon  the 
normahzed  susceptance  of  the  end  obstacles  and  their  separation. 

sign  filters  which  use  resonant  cavities,  provided  that  the  selectivity,  the 
resonant  frequency  and  the  excess  phase  shift  of  the  resonant  cavity  are 
known. 


Resonant  Wavelength  and  Loaded  Q  of  Cavities 

These  properties  can  best  be  derived  by  considering  one  of  the  usual  types 
of  cavities,  which  consists  of  two  obstacles  or  discontinuities  separated  by  a 
length  of  transmission  line.  Such  a  cavity  is  shown  schematically  in  Fig. 
10.  The  obstacles  at  each  end  are  assumed  to  be  equal,  and  to  have  an 
unvarying  susceptance  BYq  ,  where  Fo  is  the  surge  admittance  of  the  con- 


698 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


necting  transmission  line.    This  type  of  cavity  is  resonant  when  the  rela- 
tion is  satisfied^  •  ^"^ 


tan 


IttI 


(31) 


where  Xo  is  the  resonant  wavelength  in  the  transmission  line, 
I  is  the  length  of  the  cavity 
B  is  the  normalized  susceptance  of  the  end  obstacles. 
This  resonance  occurs  at  any  number  of  wavelengths,  but  the  1st  or  2nd 
longest  wavelength  at  which  resonance  occurs  is  in  the  region  which  is  usu- 
ally of  greatest  interest. 

The  selectivity  in  this  region  is  determined  also  by  the  value  of  the  nor- 
malized susceptance,  B,  of  the  obstacles,  and  is  given  by  the  relation  (See 
Appendix  I) 


arc  tan  •= 


(32) 


2  arc  sin 


\/B^  +  452 


This  selectivity  is  based  upon  the  wavelength,  not  the  frequency  parameter. 
In  terms  of  the  wavelength  in  the  transmission  line  this  is 


2jd 


<aO 


\ci  —  \c2 


m 


2irt       lirt 

where  \gQ  is  the  wavelength  of  resonance  in  the  transmission  line  and  \gc 
is  the  wavelength  at  the  half  power  points.  If  the  phase  velocity  in  the 
transmission  line  does  not  vary  with  frequency,  then  the  selectivity  can  be 
expressed  simply  in  terms  of  either  the  wavelength  or  the  frequency  since 

/o        /         X         Xo 


(34) 


However,  when  the  velocity  in  the  transmission  line  varies  with  frequency, 
equation  34  does  not  hold  true,  and  the  expression  relating  the  two  parame- 
ters is  more  complicated.     In  the  case  of  the  rectangular  waveguide 


X.  = 


vT^^ 


(35) 


where  c  is  the  velocity  of  light  in  vacuum,  few  is  the  cutoff  frequency  of  the 

c 
waveguide,  jew  —  'Z'  and  a  is  the  width  of  the  waveguide. 


MAXIM  ALLY -FLAT  FILTERS  IN  WAVEGUIDE 


699 


It  can  be  shown  readily  that  the  frequency  parameter  can  be  expressed 
in  terms  of  the  wavelength,  thus 

(i-7)-(t:-x-:)fe)fe)       <»' 

where  Xa  is  the  wavelength  in  free  space. 

For  narrow  percentage  bands,  this  reduces  to  the  approximate  relation 


20 


in    _o 


^    -5 

O   -4 

z 

U 
^-2 


x^ 

^ 

- 

^ 

^ 

- 

^' 

^' 

^X^^AVITY    WITH   INDUCTIVE    OBSTACLES 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

r*--jt-n 

,y 

y^ 

y 

^ 

TAN 
Q= 

^ 

^ 

_JL_ 

_i_ 

-'1      . 

2 

,Vb 

4 

12. 
B 

^ 

B^+4B2 

i_lj 

3       4     5    6       8     10  20        30    40  50  60    80  100 

SELECTIVITY     (LOADED  Q) 


200      300 


Fig.  11 — The  relation  between  loaded  Q  and  normalized  susceptance.  (Inductive  ob 
stacks) 

This  states,  in  effect,  that  the  percentage  bandwidth  is  greater  in  terms  of 
wavelength  than  in  terms  of  frequency,  by  the  square  of  the  ratio  of  the 
wavelengths  in  the  guide  and  in  free  space.  The  selectivity  in  terms  of  the 
frequencies  and  wavelength  ratio  thus  becomes 

1  /Xao\'  /O  '^    -^' 


1  /XooV   ^  /o  /XooV 

V/o         fJ 


(38) 


This  is  the  selectivity  that  is  plotted  as  a  function  of  B  in  Figures  11  and  12. 
Excess  Phase  and  Connecting  Lines 

The  excess  phase  of  this  type  of  cavity  is  taken  into  account  by  adding  the 
lengths  of  line,  f  (see  Fig.  9),  which  have  a  length  given  by  the  relation  (See 
Appendix  I) 


tan 


(39) 


700 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Combining  Eq.  31  and  Eq.  39  and  solving  for  V  in  terms  of  I 

2 


I' 


4 


(40) 


where  t  is  the  length  of  the  cavity  and  \gQ  is  the  resonant  wavelength  in  the 
line. 


CD 


10 


^  9 

(0    6 
a    7 

u.    6 
o 

5 
lij 

< 

°-     3 

U 
10 
3 
<0      o 


CAVITY 

WITH    CAPACITIVE   OBSTACLES 

i<— £— >i 

.^ 

^"^ 

^ 

jB           jB         |l 

*^ 

- 

4    ? 

TAN    ■   -5" 
-Q=  ^ 1— 

4                           t> 

y^ 

^ 

"V  8^+482 

^ 

^ 

y^ 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

/ 

^ 

.   1 

_!_ 

1 

_i_ 

3         4       5     6    7   8  9  10  20  30       40     50  60      60    100 

SELECTIVITY     CLOADED   Q) 


200        300 


Fig.  12— The  relation  between  loaded  Q  and  normalized  susceptance.  (Capacitive  ob- 
stacles) 

Thus,  when  this  length,  corresponding  to  the  excess  phase  of  the  cavity 
resonator,  is  absorbed  in  the  length  of  Une  connecting  two  cavities  together, 
the  correct  total  connecting  length  becomes 


f.  =  (2w  +  1) 


Xpo 


('.-  a 


fl   -\-  h  ^0    j_  ^  ^a 

-IT  "  4  +'"T 


(41) 


where  A  and  4  are  the  lengths  of  the  cavities  and  m  is  any  integer  including 
zero. 

Obstacles  in  Waveguides 

The  three  properties  of  the  cavity — the  resonant  frequency,  the  selectiv- 
ity and  the  excess  phase — are  given  in  Equations  31,  32  and  39,  regardless 
of  the  sign  of  the  normalized  susceptance,  B.  In  the  case  where  the  obstacles 
are  inductive,  B  is  negative;  and  where  the  obstacles  are  capacitive,  B  is 
positive. 


MAXIMALLY-FLA  T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  •  701 

Further  explanation  is  needed  to  distinguish  between  these  two  impor- 
tant cases.     First  consider  the  case  where  inductive  obstacles  are  used. 

Tan  - —  is  negative  and  the  cavity  length  lies  between  a  quarter  and  a  half 

wavelength  (plus  any  multiple  of  half  wavelength).  The  selectivity,  as 
given  by  equation  (32),  is  plotted  on  Fig.  11  for  the  fundamental  mode. 
The  excess  phase  is  positive,  and  the  added  lengths,  f,  of  Fig.  9  are  positive. 
The  connecting  Unes  between  two  such  cavities  are  then  slightly  less  than  a 
quarter  wavelength  (or  odd  multiple  thereof). 

9    / 

Next  consider  the  case  where  the  obstacles  are  capacitive.     Tan  --  is 

positive  and  the  cavity  length  lies  between  zero  and  a  quarter  wavelength 
(plus  any  multiple  of  half  wavelengths).  The  selectivity  as  given  by  equa- 
tion (32)  is  plotted  in  Fig.  12  for  cavity  lengths  lying  between  a  half  wave- 
length and  three  quarters  wavelength.  The  excess  phase  is  negative  and 
the  added  lengths,  A  of  Fig.  9  are  negative.  The  connecting  lines  between 
two  such  cavities  are  then  sKghtly  longer  than  a  quarter  wavelength  (or  odd 
multiple  thereof). 

SUSCEPTANCE   OF  OBSTACLES 

The  Equations  (31),  (32)  and  (39)  give  the  resonant  wavelength,  the  selec- 
tivity (in  terms  of  wavelength)  and  the  excess  phase  as  functions  of  the  nor- 
malized susceptance  of  the  obstacles  which  form  the  ends  of  the  cavity,  and 
a  knowledge  of  this  susceptance  as  a  function  of  the  geometrical  configura- 
tion of  the  obstacle  is  necessary  to  complete  the  design  of  the  filter.  At  low 
frequencies,  conventional  coils  and  condensers  can  be  used  to  form  the  dis- 
continuities in  the  transmission  line;  while  at  high  frequencies,  transmission 
line  stubs  can  be  used.^^  In  the  microwave  region,  where  waveguides  are 
employed,  obstacles  having  the  shapes  shown  in  Figures  13,  14,  and  15  can 
be  used.^^ 

Inductive  Vanes 

Figure  13  shows  a  plane  metaUic  obstacle,  transversely  located  across  a 
rectangular  waveguide,  with  a  centrally  located  rectangular  opening  extend- 
ing completely  across  the  waveguide  in  a  direction  parallel  to  the  electric 
vector.  For  thin  obstacles,  the  normalized  susceptance  can  be  calculated 
from  the  approximate  formula, ^^ 

B^  -  ^  cot^  ^  (42) 

a  2a 

where  X^  is  the  wavelength  in  the  waveguide,  a  is  the  width  of  the  waveguide, 
and  d  is  the  width  of  the  iris  opening. 


702 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


When  the  iris  is  constructed  of  material  of  finite  thickness,  r,  the  expression 
for  the  susceptance  is  more  compUcated,^"  • "  and  the  equivalent  circuit 
becomes  a  four-terminal  network  with  both  shunt  and  series  elements. 
The  equivalent  shunt  susceptance  of  this  network  can  be  obtained  experi- 
mentally by  measuring  the  insertion  loss  of  the  iris,  from  which  a  curve  such 
as  shown  in  Fig.  16  can  be  computed.  These  data*  were  taken  for  irises 
.050"  thick  in  waveguide  having  internal  dimensions  of  0.872"  X  1.872"  in 
the  frequency  range  around  4000  mc.  The  ordinate  is  a  parameter,  K,  from 
which  the  normahzed  susceptance  is  calculated: 


B 


VANES 


■<i)- 


(43) 


-he  ^  TTd 


Fig.  13 — One  type  of  inductive  obstacle  in  rectangular  waveguide. 


d    b      B=^    LOGeCScf^ 


Fig.  14— One  type  of  capacitive  obstacle  in  rectangular  waveguide. 


; 

• a * 

B.5^ 


LOGe 


Vnde2/ 


Fig.  15 — Another  type  of  inductive  obstacle  consists  of  a  cylindrical  post. 

Along  the  abscissa  is  plotted  the  ratio  of  iris  opening  to  width  of  the  wave- 
guide. 

It  can  be  demonstrated  that  for  values  of  K  from  —  1  to  —  20,  the  equiv- 
alent iris  opening  is  approximately  the  actual  opening  less  the  thickness  of 
the  metal  sheet.  For  practical  purposes,  when  the  susceptance  lies  be- 
tween — 1.5  and  —30,  it  is  often  sufficient  to  use  the  approximation, 


a  \      2a      / 


(44) 


where  t  is  the  thickness  of  the  iris. 

*  Data  supplied  by  Mr.  L.  C.  Tillotson  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 


MAXIMALLY-FLAT  FILTERS  IN  WAVEGUIDE 


703 


Capacitive  Irises 

The  normalized  susceptance  of  infinitely  thin  capacitive  obstacles,  as  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  14,  may  be  calculated  by  the  approximate  relation^^ 


B  =   -  log.  cosec  — 

\n  lb 


(45) 


where  b  is  the  height  of  the  waveguide,  X^  is  the  wavelength  in  the  waveguide, 
and  d  is  the  width  of  the  iris  opening. 


-200 


-100 
-80 

-60 
-40 


\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

B-(^) 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

s 

\ 

s. 

N 

\ 

N, 

S 

\ 

-20 

-10 
-8 

-6 

-4 

-2 

-1.0 
-0.8 


0       0.05     0.10     0.15      0,20     0.25    0.30     0.35     0.40    0.45    0.50     0.55     0.60     0.65     0.70 

d. 
a 

Fig.  16 — Experimentally  determined  curve  of  normalized  susceptance  of  inductive  irises. 

As  with  the  inductive  vanes,  the  normahzed  susceptance  is  a  function  of 
the  iris  thickness  and  may  be  calculated  from  the  approximate  formula^^ 


^  =  i5o  + 


llTT 


C-0 


(46) 


where  Bq  is  the  normahzed  susceptance  of  the  infinitely  thin  iris,  and  r  is 
the  iris  thickness. 

For  best  results,  the  irises  should  be  designed  from  experimentally  deter- 
mined curves,  however. 


704 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


Inductive  Posts 

The  normalized  susceptance  of  the  round  cyhndrical  inductive  post,  cen- 
trally located  in  the  waveguide  parallel  to  the  electric  vector,  may  be  calcu- 
lated from  the  approximate  formula"-  ^^'  ^^ 


B  = 


2\ 


1 


'  -  (1.) 

where  a  is  the  width  of  the  guide,  and  d  is  the  post  diameter. 


(47) 


20 


.-10 
a  -9 

< 

Q-    -5 

UJ 

< 


.■»(«) 

/ 

f 

- 

/ 

- 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

^ 

y 

/ 

-x 

1 

^ 

^ 

1 

0.003        0.005 


0.02       0.03    0.04       0.06  0.08  0.1 

a 


0.2  0.3 


Fig.  17 — Experimentally  determined  curve  of  normalized  susceptance  of  inductive  posts 

The  experimentally  determined  values  of  susceptance  are  somewhat  less 
than  the  values  calculated  by  the  formula  (47).     The  difference  is  less  than 

20%  when  -  is  less  than  0.08.     A  curve  of  experimentally  determined  values 

is  plotted  in  Fig.  17,  the  data  being  taken  in  rectangular  waveguide  0.872''  X 
1.872"  at  a  frequency  near  4000  mc* 

The  normalized  susceptance  of  posts  is  also  a  function  of  their  position  in 
the  waveguide,  the  susceptance  decreasing  as  the  posts  are  moved  off  center. 
This  feature  may  be  used  when  it  is  desired  to  make  all  the  posts  in  a  filter 


*  Data  supplied  by  Mr.  A.  E.  Bowen  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 


MA XI MA  LL  Y-FLA  T  FIL TERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  705 

from  stock  of  a  given  diameter.     The  expression  for  the  normahzed  sus- 
ceptance  of  off-center  posts  is  given  by  the  relation^^  •  ^^ 

B'-'^     „r    ;..     ■...  m 


ITS 

sec 


where  s  is  the  distance  off  center. 

Experimental  Data 

The  principles  of  waveguide  filter  design  as  outlined  in  the  foregoing  have 
been  used  in  several  applications.  For  example  the  channel  branching  fil- 
ters in  the  New  York-Boston  microwave  radio  relay  link  consist  of  two  reso- 
nant cavities  separated  by  the  equivalent  of  f  wavelength  sections  of 
waveguide.  The  transmitting  modulators  in  this  relay  system  also  use 
two-chamber  filters  to  separate  the  wanted  sideband  from  the  unwanted 
sideband.     The  transmission  band  in  each  of  these  applications  was  10  mc 


Fig.  18— Diagram  of  a  transmission  line  filter  consisting  of  four  resonant  cavities  and 
three  connecting  lengths  of  line. 

and  the  image  frequency  or  the  unwanted  sideband  which  was  to  be  re- 
flected was  130  mc  away. 

In  another  case  the  requirements  were  that  the  standing  wave  ratio  should 
be  less  than  0.64  db  over  a  band  of  20  mc  and  more  than  28  db  30  mc  on 
each  side  of  the  midband  frequency.  The  design  formulae  indicated  that  a 
filter  consisting  of  four  cavities  would  be  needed.  These,  then,  would  take 
the  general  configuration  shown  in  Fig.  18,  where  the  first  and  last  cavities 
are  formed  by  the  obstacles  jBi  and  the  length  of  fine  A  ,  while  the  two  mid- 
dle cavities  are  formed  by  the  obstacles  JB2  and  the  length  4  .  The  lengths 
/12  and  ^2  correspond  to  the  transforming  sections  of  transmission  line  which 
connect  the  cavities  together.  The  loaded  Q's  required  to  meet  the  speci- 
fications turned  out  to  be  ^1  =  12.25  and  Q2  =  30.0,  after  allowance  had 
been  made  for  the  selectivities  of  the  f  wavelength  connecting  sections. 
Assuming  that  the  cavities  would  be  formed  with  inductive  obstacles,  as 
shown  schematically  in  Fig.  19,  the  susceptances  to  obtain  these  selec- 
tivities were  obtained  from  Fig.  11  based  on  equation  32.     This  gave 

Bi  =  -4.08 

B2  =  -6.36 


706 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


These  susceptances  were  realized  with  centrally  located  round  posts,  for 
which  the  data  of  Fig.  17  has  been  plotted,  and  this  filter  was  constructed 
according  to  the  calculated  dimensions  which  are  shown  in  Fig.  20.  Each 
of  the  four  cavities  was  tuned  separately  to  resonance  near  midband  by  ad- 
justing a  capacitive  plug  located  in  the  center  of  each.  The  characteristic 
then  obtained  is  plotted  in  Fig.  21,  which  shows  that  the  standing  wave 

|-£i--|*-£i2-*|*-£2'*|*-e22-*j*-£2-*|*-£i2-^£i-^ 


Ll      1-2: 


L2     L2 


:l2    l, 


Fig.  19 — A  four-cavity  filter  which  utilizes  inductive  obstacles. 

-J  1.980  L  J  2.090  L-  J2.O90L  J  1.960  L- 

I  »-3.191-^  |*-3.246-i|  |*-3.191-*j  | 

|?T        T?|        |9|        »^ 


0.112"  D 


■TUNING    PLUGS 


0.112"  D 


Fig.  20— The  calculated  dimensions  for  a  four-cavity  maximally-flat  filter  in  0.872"  x 
1.872''  rectangular  waveguide. 


"4010  40  30  4050  4070  4090 

FREQUENCY  IN    MC 

Fig.  21 — Measured  characteristic  of  four-cavity  filter  of  Figure  20. 

ratio  met  the  design  points  quite  well.  These  are  shown  as  circles  in  the 
figure.  The  insertion  loss  of  this  filter  was  less  than  0.7  db  over  a  25-mc 
band  and  less  than  0.3-db  at  midband. 

Another  maximally-flat  waveguide  filter  consisting  of  fifteen  resonant 
cavities  gave  an  insertion  loss  of  two  decibels  at  midband,  4-db  loss  at  20- 
mc  bandwidth  and  40-db  loss  at  30-mc  bandwidth.  The  input  standing 
wave  ratio  was  less  than  1.0  db  over  a  20-mc  band.  Its  characteristics  are 
plotted  in  Figs.  22  and  23.    This  excellent  performance  is  remarkable  in 


MAXIMALLY-FLAT  FILTERS  IN  WAVEGUIDE 


707 


18 

I 

1 

1 

/ 

to 

Q     14 

Z 

0  12 
1- 

< 

^     10 

u 

1  e 

o 

Z      6 

o 

z 

^      4 
If) 

2 
0 

/ 

1 

L 

^_ 

^^ 

^x^ 

' 

4020     4030      4040     4050     4060 
FREQUENCY  IN  MC 

Fig.  22 — Measured  standing  wave  ratio  of  maximally-flat  filter  consisting  of  fifteen 
resonant  cavities. 


55 

1 

i 

/ 

\ 

/ 

45 

eo40 
Q 

^35 

en 

<n 

3  30 

Z 

oc 
u 

2  20 
15 
10 

5 

\ 

\ 

\ 

1 

1 

1 

1 

/ 

^ 

/ 

n 

4020 


4030  4040  4050 

FREQUENCY  IN    MC 


Fig.  23 — Measured  insertion  loss  of  the  fifteen-cavity  filter. 

view  of  the  difficulties  that  might  be  encountered  in  constructing  and  align- 
ing a  filter  consisting  of  75  discontinuities  and  29  lengths  of  waveguide. 
Its  physical  length  (over  80")  may  be  seen  in  the  photograph  of  Fig.  24. 


708 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


iliiiiiiiliiiiils 


MAXIMALL  Y-FLA T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  709 

The  theoretical  treatment  of  maximally-flat  filters  presented  here  has  ig- 
nored the  dissipation  in  the  elements.  Better  agreement  between  expected 
and  observed  characteristics  would  be  obtained  if  this  had  been  taken  into 
account.  The  observation  of  .3-db  loss  and  2-db  loss  in  the  four-cavity  and 
the  fifteen-cavity  maximally-flat  filters  is  indicative  of  the  amounts  of  added 
insertion  loss  to  be  expected  because  of  dissipation  in  the  elements.  In 
addition  to  the  increased  loss  at  midband,  we  should  expect  a  rounding  of  the 
insertion  loss  characteristic  near  the  cutoff  frequencies,  and  a  broadening  of 
the  standing  wave  characteristic  at  frequencies  well  beyond  cutoff.  In 
many  applications,  however,  these  effects  can  be  ignored. 

Concluding  Remarks 

In  the  foregoing,  the  design  of  maximally-flat  band-pass  filters  has  been 
treated  in  detail.  The  treatment  of  other  types  of  band-pass  and  band- 
rejection  filters  is  beyond  the  scope  of  the  present  paper,  although  much  of 
the  material  presented  here  may  be  of  use  in  designing  such  filters.  In 
fact,  almost  any  filter  consisting  of  a  ladder  network  of  inductive  and  capaci- 
tive  elements  in  series  and  in  shunt  can  be  simulated  in  waveguides  by  fol- 
lowing these  principles.  Emphasis  on  the  maximally-flat  filter  has  been 
deUberate  for  two  reasons:  it  gives  a  type  of  transmission  characteristic  that 
is  useful  in  microwave  work;  it  is  simple  to  design. 

Acknowledgement 

Many  members  of  the  Holmdel  Radio  Research  Laboratories  have  influ- 
enced the  evolution  of  the  technique  of  building  waveguide  filters.  A  firm 
foundation  was  laid  by  the  pioneering  work  of  G.  C.  South worth^^  and  A.G. 
Fox.  Intimate  association  with  W.  D.  Lewis  and  L.  C.  Tillotson  fostered 
many  stimulating  discussions  which  clarified  doubtful  issues.  The  com- 
ments of  M.  D.  Brill  and  S.  Darhngton  are  deeply  appreciated.  The  un- 
tiring effort  of  R.  H.  Brandt  in  making  skillfully  the  accurate  measurements 
which  were  necessary  is  gratefully  acknowledged  as  is  also  the  invaluable 
support  of  all  the  many  other  people  without  whose  cooperation  and  con- 
fidence the  work  would  have  been  impossible. 

References 

1.  E.  L.  Norton,  Constant  Resistance  Networks  with  Applications  to  Filter  Groups, 

B.  S.  T.  J.,  Vol.  XVI,  pp.  178-193,  April  1937. 

2.  W.  D.  Lewis  and  L.  C.  Tillotson,  B.  S.  T.  /.,  Vol.  XXVII,  #1,  pp.  83-95,  January 

1948. 

3.  E.  L.  Norton,  U.  S.  Patent  #1,788,538,  January  13,  1931. 

4.  W.  R.  Bennett,  U.  S.  Patent  #1,849,656,  March  15,  1932. 

5.  S.  Butterworth,  Wireless  Engineer,  Vol.  VII,  #85,  pp.  536-541,  October  1930. 

6.  V.  D.  Landon,  R.C.A.  Review,  Vol.  V,  pp.  347-362  and  pp.  481-497,  1940-41. 

7.  Henry  Wallman,  M.I.T.  Radiation  Laboratory  Report  #524,  February  23,  1944. 

8.  S.  Darlington,  Journal  of  Math,  and  Pliys.,  Vol.  XVIII,  pp.  257-353,  September  1939. 


710  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

9.  R.  M.  Fano  and  A.  W.  Lawson,  Proc.  LR.E.,  Vol.,  Vol.  35,   #1,  pp.  1318-1323, 
November  1947. 

10.  Wilbur  L.  Pritchard,  Journal  of  Applied  Physics,  Vol.  XVIII,    #  10,  pp.  862-872, 

October  1947. 

11.  M.I.T.  Wave  Guide  Handbook,  Supplement  Rod.  Lab.  Rpt.  41,  Sec.  21a,  (January  23, 

1945). 

12  A.  L.  Samuel,  J.  W.  Clark  and  W.  W.  Mumford,  Gas  Discharge  Transmit-Receive 

Switch.    B.  S.  T.  J.,  Vol.  XXV,  #1,  pp.  48-101,  January  1946. 

13  S.  A.  SchelkunofT,  Representation  of  Impedance  Functions  in  Terms  of  Resonant  Fre- 

quencies.    Proc.  I.R.E.,  Vol.  XXXII,  pp.  83-90,  February  1944. 

14.  W.  P.  Mason  and  R.  A.  Sykes,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  Vol.  XVI,  pp.  275-302,  July  1937. 

15.  Sperry  Microwave  Transmission  Design  Data,  Publication  No.  23-80,  Sperry  Gyro- 

scope Co. 

16.  S.  A.  Schelkunoff,  Quarterly  of  Applied  Math.,  Vol.  I,  #1,  pp.  78-85,  April  1943. 

17.  G.  C.  Southworth,  Hyper-Frequency  Wave  Guides,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  Vol.  XV,  pp.  284-309, 

April  1936. 

APPENDIX  I 

A  cavity  resonator,  consisting  of  a  length  of  transmission  line,  /,  at  each 
end  of  which  there  is  an  unvarying  susceptance,  jB,  is  approximately  equiv- 
alent to  a  tuned  circuit,  consisting  of  an  inductance,  L,  and  a  capacity,  C, 
in  parallel  located  at  the  center  of  a  short  length  of  transmission  line,  2f, 
when  these  two  conditions  are  satisfied: 

(1)  The  square  root  of  L  over  C  is  equal  to  the  surge  impedance  of  the 
transmission  line  divided  by  twice  the  loaded  Q  of  the  cavity. 

(2)  The  sum  of  the  lengths  of  the  two  transmission  lines  t  and  2/'  is  equal 
to  a  half  wavelength  at  resonance. 

The  first  of  these  conditions  follows  from  equation  3  of  the  text  above, 
and  the  proof  of  the  second  condition  will  be  given  in  the  following  analysis, 
based  on  the  schematic  drawing  of  Figures  9  and  10.  In  this  analysis,  the 
loaded  Q  of  the  cavity  is  derived  in  terms  of  the  susceptance  of  the  obstacles 
at  its  ends. 

Since  the  cavity  and  the  tuned  circuit  are  both  symmetrical  it  is  adequate 
to  consider  but  one  half  of  each  in  estabhshing  the  equivalence.  Then  by 
setting  the  short  circuit  admittance  of  one  equal  to  the  other  and  setting  the 
open  circuit  admittance  of  one  equal  to  the  other,  the  necessary  relationships 
are  derived. 

The  following  symbols  will  be  used  in  addition  to  those  used  in  the  text : 

Ysc  =  NormaUzed  admittance,  short  circuited. 

Yoc  =  Normalized  admittance,  open  circuited. 

The  subscripts  1  and  x  refer  to  the  cavity  and  the  equivalent  tuned  circuit 
respectively. 

"'    x;  ■  2 

e.  J^  ■  (' 
tx. 


MA XI MA LLY-FLA  T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  711 

The  short-circuited  admittances  of  half  the  cavity  and  half  the  tuned  cir- 
cuit are 

Ysci  =  j{Bi  -  cot  ^i)  (Al) 

Yscx  =  -j  cot  e,  (A2) 

while  the  open-circuited  admittances  are 

Yoci  =  j{B,  -h  tan  ^i)  (A3) 


(A4) 


Yocx  =  — 

1 

^-^  4-  tan  0,J 

-ytan^x 

Putting  Yaci 

=    Yac2 

tan^x  = 

1 

cot  01-  Bi' 

Putting  A5  in 

A4and 

setting  Yoci 

=  Yocx 

B, 

+  tan  ^1  - 

B.              1 
2        cot  di  - 

Si 

(A5) 


(A6) 
2  cot  $1  -  Bi 
Solving  for  Bx  we  have 

B^  =  -5i(^i  sin  ISi  -  2  cos  2^i)  (A7) 

which  becomes 


S.  =  VB\  +  4Bf  sin  |-'  (^  -  l) 


where 


Equation  A9  gives  the  requirements  for  resonance. 
The  expression  for  the  loaded  Q  is 

2x/ 


2ir^  _2ia 

\gc2  \el 


(A8) 


- —  =  arc  tan  ^-  .  (A9) 


(AlO) 


712  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

The  cutoff  wavelengths  are  obtained  when  Bx  is  equal  to  zb  2  and  we  have 
from  equation  A8 

r —  =  -—  +  arc  sin  - — /p.    ,    .  ,  (A12) 

from  which  we  obtain 


arc  tan  — 


0= ^.V^i  +  i^?arcta„|.       (A13) 

This  gives  the  loaded  Q  of  the  cavity  in  terms  of  the  susceptance  of  the  end 
obstacles. 

To  derive  the  length  corresponding  to  the  excess  phase  of  the  cavity,  let 
the  short-circuited  admittances  be  equal  by  equating  equations  Al  and 
A2,  and  let  the  wavelength  be  the  resonant  wavelength  of  the  cavity,  and 
we  have 

Bi  -  cot  ^10  =  -  cot  (9x0 .  (A14) 

From  equation  A9 

^1=2  cot  2^10  (A15) 


so  that 


But 


hence 


or 


That  is 


2  cot  2^10  -  cot  ^10  =  -cot  61x0 .  (A16) 

2  cot  2^10  -  cot  (9io  =  -tan  (9io  (A17) 

tan  ^10  =  cot  ^xo  (A18) 


^10  +  ^xo  =  ^  (A19) 


lir      i        I'kI'  _  IT 

^gO  2  \gQ  2 


MAXIMALLY-FLA  T  FILTERS  IN  WA  VEGUIDE  713 

whence 

/  +  2r  =  ^  (A20) 

which  proves  the  second  condition  mentioned  above,  namely,  that  the  sum 
of  the  lengths  of  the  transmission  Hnes  in  the  cavity  and  its  equivalent  cir- 
cuit is  equal  to  a  half  wavelength. 

The  normaUzed  admittance  of  the  cavity  terminated  in  the  surge  admit- 
tance of  the  guide  can  be  written  in  terms  of  its  loaded  Q  and  a  wavelength 
variable  as 


Kr:)-]^ 


YR^   1  -{-  J2Q  ^2  \^fj  -  1 J  .  (A21) 

This  expression  is  obtained  from  equations  A8  and  A13  by  making  the  as- 
sumption that  the  bandwidth  is  narrow  so  that  the  sine  of  the  angle  in  equa- 
tion A8  can  be  replaced  by  the  angle.  This  admittance  is  referred  to  a  point 
slightly  inside  the  cavity,  i.e.  a  distance  t'  inside. 

The  similarity  between  this  expression  and  the  corresponding  one  for  the 
parallel  resonant  circuit  consisting  of  lumped  elements  is  evident.  (See  eq. 
7  of  the  text.) 


[M] 


YR  =  1+  J2Q  ^j.  -  Jj  (A22) 

In  the  case  of  the  cavity  the  bracketed  term  is  a  wavelength  variable;  in 
the  case  of  the  tuned  circuit  it  is  a  frequency  variable. 

The  loss  function  for  maximally-flat  filters  in  waveguides  becomes 


g.,+ 


[*Kr:-')] 


(A23) 


The  loaded  Q's  of  the  cavities  taper  sinusoidally  from  one  end  of  the  filter  to 
the  other  so  that 

Qr  =  Qr  sin  (^-^^)  ^-  (A24) 


Transient  Response  of  an  FM  Receiver 

By  MANVEL  K.  ZINN 
Introduction 

THIS  paper  develops  various  formulas  for  the  response  of  an  FM 
receiver  to  signal  or  noise  input  voltages  of  arbitrary  form.  The  prin- 
cipal object  in  view  is  to  obtain  a  more  complete  understanding  of  how  an 
FM  receiver  responds  to  transient  voltages,  such  as  those  arising  from 
ignition  interference,  but  the  more  general  aspects  of  the  theory  have  other 
applications  as  well.  In  particular,  general  formulas  are  given  for  the  re- 
sponse of  a  linear  circuit  to  an  applied  voltage,  or  current,  of  variable  fre- 
quency. The  Fourier  transforms,  or  frequency  spectra,  of  the  response,  and 
the  envelope  thereof,  are  determined. 

Two  examples  are  given:  (1)  the  audio  response  of  an  FM  receiver  to  a 
very  large  impulse  and  (2)  the  response,  including  harmonic  distortion,  to 
a  sinusoidal  signal  wave. 

The  element  of  an  FM  receiver  that  demands  most  discussion  is  the  bal- 
anced frequency  detector.  The  greater  part  of  the  paper  accordingly  deals 
with  that  important  element.  The  general  problem  can  be  stated  as  follows : 
A  limiter  and  frequency  detector  are  transmitting  a  steady  unmodulated 
carrier  wave  to  an  audio  output  circuit.  At  time,  /  =  0,  frequency  modula- 
tion of  arbitrary  form  is  applied  to  the  carrier  (either  by  signal  modulation  or 
a  superposed  noise  transient) .  What  is  the  audio  output  voltage  that  re- 
sults? 

Frequency  Detector 

Except  for  the  greater  bandwidth,  the  amplifiers  and  selective  circuits 
between  the  antenna  and  the  limiter  of  an  FM  receiver  are  similar  to  those 
of  an  AM  receiver  in  their  transmission  features.  If  the  selective  circuits 
have  a  bandwidth  ample  to  accommodate  the  maximum  frequency  swing  of 
the  FM  transmitter,  and  if  the  transmission  over  the  band  is  substantially 
"flat"  and  the  phase  shift  nearly  linear  with  frequency,  the  amplifiers  will 
introduce  little  distortion.  The  limiter  and  frequency  detector  are  therefore 
regarded  as  the  distinctive  elements  of  an  FM  receiver  meriting  theoretical 
discussion. 

The  literature  contains  descriptions  of  frequency  detectors  of  several 
types  together  with  adequate  analyses  of  the  action  of  the  circuits  based  on 
the  variable  impedance  concept.^    The  more  generally  used  circuits  can  be 

^  See  Items  3  to  6  in  list  of  references  attached. 

714 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER  715 

reduced  to  the  circuit  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  1,  which  can  be  taken  to 
illustrate  a  generic  form  of  frequency  detector.  Zi  and  Z2  are  two  resonant 
impedances  tuned  to  different  frequencies,  one  above,  the  other  below,  the 
carrier  frequency. ^  For  example,  the  simplest  version  of  Zi  and  Z2  could  be, 
for  each,  a  parallel  combination  of  i?,  L  and  C.  Across  each  of  these 
impedances  is  connected  a  rectifier  with  load  circuit  so  proportioned  that 
the  rectification  is  substantially  linear.  The  rectifiers  are  poled  so  that  their 
low-frequency  outputs  are  opposed,  thereby  obtaining  cancellation  of  even- 
order  demodulation  products.  With  this  arrangement,  the  low-frequency 
output  voltage  Fo,  which  is  apphed  to  the  audio  amphfier,  is  substantially 
proportional  to  the  difference  between  the  envelopes  of  the  voltage  drops 
across  Zi  and  Z^. 

The  resistance  elements  of  the  impedances,  Zi  and  Z2,  each  include  a  shunt- 
ing resistance  equal  to  half  the  load  resistance  of  the  associated  rectifier, 
which  therefore  determines,  to  some  extent,  the  Q  of  the  tuned  circuit.  The 
output  diode  load,  i?o  Co,  has  negHgible  impedance  at  the  carrier  frequency. 
Under  these  conditions,  the  low-frequency  output  voltage  across  the  two- 
rectifier  load  impedances  is 

Vo  =  V  {[Vi]  -  IV2]) 

where  77  =  detection  efficiency  (nearly  unity) 

Fi ,  F2  =  high-frequency  voltages  across  Zi ,   Z2 ,   respectively   (Fig.    1) 

[F]  =  envelope  of  F. 
All  this  is  in  accord  with  the  accepted  understanding  of  the  operation  of  a 
properly  designed  linear  rectifier  working  at  an  efficiency  approaching  100 
per  cent. 

The  amplitudes  of  the  voltages,  Vi  and  F2 ,  across  the  resonant  imped- 
ances, Zi  and  Z2 ,  of  Fig.  1  are  shown  in  Fig.  2.  In  the  practical  engineering 
analysis  of  this  frequency  detector  circuit,  employing  the  idea  of  impedance 
that  varies  in  step  with  the  instantaneous  frequency,  the  two  voltages  of 
Fig.  2  are  subtracted  (owing  to  the  opposed  polarities  of  the  rectifiers)  to 
obtain  the  over-all  voltage-frequency  characteristic  shown  in  Fig.  3.  Then 
it  is  inferred,  by  physical  intuition,  that  if  the  instantaneous  frequency  of 
the  carrier  is  varied  at  the  input,  the  output  voltage  wave  will  vary  as  in- 
dicated by  the  curve  of  Fig.  3.  Strictly  speaking,  this  is  a  false  assumption, 
but  where  the  rate  of  variation  of  the  instantaneous  frequency  is  at  an  audio 
signal  frequency  far  below  the  carrier  frequency,  the  error  in  the  assump- 
tion is  of  no  importance,  whereas  the  simplification  in  thinking  accomphshed 

2  The  term  carrier  frequency  will  be  used  to  designate  the  value  of  the  unmodulated 
received  frequency  after  all  heterodyne  conversions.  (This  frequency  is  equal  to  the  mid- 
band  frequency  of  the  last  intermediate  frequency  amplifier  ahead  of  the  limiter,  if  tuning 
is  perfect.) 


716 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


by  it  is  considerable.  It  is  only  where  the  rate  of  variation  of  the  instan- 
taneous frequency  is  high,  as  it  can  be  in  the  case  of  a  large  noise  transient 
caused  by  impulse  excitation,  that  the  error  in  the  assumption  in  question 


FROM 
LIMITER 


■■=^-3 


r 


TO 
AUDIO 


T 


Vi 

f 

Y2 


Bo<       :4^C 


4>f 
r 


y^i^.l-W] 


l_iM 


T)  =  DETECTION 
EFFICIENCY 


ENVELOPE  OF 
FUNCTION  OF 
TIME,V 


Fig.  1 — Circuit  of  a  balanced  frequency  detector. 


t 

k A ^H-t-— A — ->l 

'                      1                      1 

/4\           i            .'1-^ 

< 

/  !\  '   /  1  '^^ 

(- 

z 

UJ 

»- 

|v,|// 

1     V''      1 

0 

i           ^^  '^^^ 

Q. 

1        ^^     1  ^^^^       1 

l''l.. 

1               i               i 

Fig.  2 — Voltages  across  tuned  circuits  of  frequency  detector. 


Fig.  3 — Output  voltage  of  frequency  detector. 


can  become  serious.  A  particularly  subtle  error  that  can  arise  from  the 
assumption  is  to  fall  into  the  habit  of  regarding  the  characteristic  curve  of 
Fig.  3  as  a  frequency  transmission  curve  of  the  sort  obtained  by  measuring 
the  ratio  of  output  to  input  of  a  linear  network  over  a  range  of  frequencies. 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER 


717 


The  curve  of  Fig.  3  is  not  such  a  transmission  curve,  because  the  principle  of 
superposition  does  not  apply  and  a  frequency  conversion  is  involved. 

Owing  to  the  considerations  discussed  above,  the  analysis  to  follow  avoids 
the  assumption  of  variable  impedance  associated  with  the  varying 
instantaneous  frequency.  This  does  not  imply  that  the  assumption,  as 
employed  by  various  writers,  is  considered  seriously  erroneous,  but,  rather, 
that  it  seems  preferable  to  develop  the  theory  without  invoking  the  as- 
sumption, provided  that  this  can  be  done  without  faUing  into  unmanageable 
comphcations.  Briefly,  the  procedure  in  the  work  to  follow  is  to  determine 
directly  the  envelopes  of  the  voltages  Vi  and  V2  as  functions  of  time,  one 
envelope  then  being  subtracted  from  the  other  to  obtain  the  output  W5,ve. 


:?   ;rh 

;=;    4 
z       0 

lU 

^   7r\\ 

< 

TIME,t- 

d    4 

f 

0 

Fig.  4 — Current  wave  out  of  limiter. 

General  Theory 

When  a  carrier  is  being  received,  the  limiter  can  be  regarded  as  substanti- 
ally a  constant  current  source  having  an  internal  shunt  admittance  small 
compared  to  the  admittance  of  the  tuned  impedance  elements,  Zi  and  Z2 , 
of  the  frequency  detector.  If  the  hmiting  is  severe,  as  it  should  be  for  good 
operation,  the  current  deUvered  by  the  limiter  is  a  rectangular  wave  as 
illustrated  in  Fig,  4.  When  this  current  is  driven  through  the  impedances, 
Zi  and  Z2 ,  the  voltage  drops,  Vi  and  V2 ,  that  arise  across  these  elements 
are  substantially  sinusoidal  in  form,  owing  to  the  selectivity,  which  practi- 
cally extinguishes  all  harmonics  of  the  carrier  frequency.  We  therefore  take 
the  current  input  to  be  sinusoidal  in  the  first  place,  namely 

/(/)  =  h  cos  lirfol 

This  is  the  unmodulated  current,  7r///4  being  the  current  cutoff  point  of  the 
Umiter  and  /o  the  frequency  of  the  carrier.  When  the  carrier  is  modulated 
in  frequency,  we  write 

/(/)  =  h  cos  [lirfol  +  e{l)\  iX) 

where  6{t)  is  the  phase  angle  varying  with  time.  The  instantaneous  fre- 
quency then  is 


/(/)  =^j^  12tU  +  e{i)]  =  /o  +  ^  m- 


(2) 


718  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

In  the  transmission  of  signals  by  frequency  modulation,  the  instantaneous 
radian  frequency  deviation,  B'{t),  is  made  to  vary  in  proportion  to  the 
signal  amplitude,  so  that  B{t)  then  varies  in  proportion  to  the  time  integral 
of  the  signal  amplitude. 

As  a  preUminary  step  to  the  discussion  of  the  frequency  detector  itself, 
we  require  a  formula  for  the  voltage  drop  across  an  impedance  Z(/)  when  the 
frequency-modulated  current  (1)  flows  through  it.  The  point  of  view 
usually  adopted  is  to  regard  the  impedance  as  a  composite  function  of  time, 
viz.,  Z[/(/)],  and  to  say  that  the  voltage  across  it  is 


v{i)  =  imifit)]  =  i{t)z  [/o  +  ^  e'{i)^ . 


(3) 


This  quasi-stationary  viewpoint  gives  results  that  are  nearly  correct  if  the 
rate  of  change,  d"{t)/2Tr,  of  the  variable  frequency  is  not  too  large.  The 
magnitude  of  the  error  has  been  determined  in  a  paper  by  Carson  and  Fry.^ 
In  the  present  paper,  impedance  is  a  function  of  frequency  that  is  inde- 
pendent of  time,  as  in  the  classic  theory  of  linear  systems.  The  frequent 
use  of  the  term  ''instantaneous  frequency,"  as  defined  by  (2),  does  not 
imply  a  departure  from  this  point  of  view. 

In  the  following,  H{t)  is,  in  general,  the  voltage  response  as  a  function 
of  time,  of  a  network  to  a  unit  impulse  of  current  applied  at  time  /  =  0. 
In  the  case  of  a  two-terminal  impedance  element,  H{l)  is  the  voltage  drop 
across  the  element  when  a  unit  impulse  of  current  is  sent  through  it.  Then, 
if  the  frequency  modulated  current  (1)  flow  through  the  impedance,  the 
voltage  drop  is 

V{t)  =  h  f    cos  Mt  -  r)  +  e{t  -  r)]HiT)  dr  (4) 

Jo 

where  ojo  =  ^irfo  .  d{t)  can  have  any  form  as  a  function  of  time.  V{t) 
can  be  written, 

V{t)  =^/"°'  [    e-''^''^''^'-'^  H{t)  dr 
2  Jq 

2  JQ 

In  the  frequency  detector  problem,  the  result  finally  desired  is  the  envelope 
of  the  voltage  wave.  It  will  clarify  the  discussion  to  explain  first  what  is 
meant  by  an  envelope.     If  the  voltage  is  of  the  form 

V{t)  =  c{l)  cos  M  H-  <^(/)] 

=  a{l)  cos  Wo/  —  b{l)  sin  coo/ 

=  h[a{l)  +  ib{l)]  i-"^'  +  i[a{t)  -  ib{t)]  €-'"''  (6) 

'  Item  1  in  the  bibliography.     See  formula  21  in  that  paper. 


TRA NSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEI VER  7 1 9 

the  complex  function, 


»>(0 


[Vm  =  c(l)  e"'"  =  a(t)  +  ib(t)  (7) 

is  here  called  the  "envelope  function"  of  the  voltage  with  respect  to  the 
radian  frequency  coo ,  c{t)  being  a  real  amplitude  modulation  factor,  which  is 
the  envelope*  itself,  as  usually  conceived,  and  exp  [i(f>{t)]  a  complex  fre- 
quency modulation  factor,  in  which  <f>'(t)  is  the  instantaneous  deviation  of 
the  radian  frequency  from  the  reference  value,  coo .  If  such  a  modulated 
voltage  wave  is  applied  to  an  ideal  linear  detector,  the  output  voltage  across 
the  load  circuit  of  the  latter  is  the  real  envelope,  c(t)  =  [a'^(t)  +  b^{t)f  ^. 
This  concept  of  an  envelope  function  provides  a  convenient  generalization 
of  modulation  ideas.  Both  amplitude  modulation  and  frequency  modula- 
tion vary  the  envelope  function,  but  in  different  ways.  In  amplitude  mod- 
ulation, the  real  magnitude,  c(/),  is  varied  while  the  angle  </>  is  constant, 
whereas,  in  frequency  modulation,  c  is  constant  and  it  is  the  angle,  </>(/))  that 
is  varied. 

It  will  be  seen  that  (5)  is  in  precisely  the  same  form  as  (6),  so  that  we  can 
write  the  envelope  function  of  V{t)  immediately,  as  follows: 

[V(t)]  =  ait)  +  ib{t)  =  h  f  g--o^+»<'('-)  h{t)  dr.  (8) 

Jo 

The  conjugate  envelope  function  then  is 

[Vii)]  =  a{t)  -  ib{t)  =  h  f  «'"»'-'•"-"  ff(r)  dr.  (9) 

JO 

The  spectrum  of  the  envelope  function  is  also  of  interest.  To  obtain  the 
spectrum,  which  we  shall  call,  Fo(/),  we  find  the  Fourier  transform  (hereafter 
abbreviated,  F.T.)  of  both  sides  of  (8),  viz.: 

Fo(/)  =    r  [F(/)]e-*"'  dt  =  h  r  e-''-'  f  e-'''''-'''''-''-H(T)  dr  dt.      (10) 

JLoo  J- 00  Jo 

It  is  permissible  to  reverse  the  order  of  integration  of  r  and  /,  obtaining 
Fo(/)  =hf  e-'^-'^Hir)  f  "  e--'+«('->  dt  dr.  (11) 

Jq  J— 00 

The  F.T.  of  h  exp  [ie{t)]  will  be  designated,  ^(/),  i.e. 

^(/)  =  h  r  e'''''-"^' dt.  (12) 

J— 00 

*  The  "envelope",  so  defined,  is  an  engineering  concept  and  is  not  quite  the  same  thing 
as  the  envelope  of  mathematics,  which  is  always  tangent  to  a  curve  or  set  of  curves. 


720  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Putting  t  —  Tin  place  of  /  in  place  of  /  as  the  variable  of  integration  in  (12) 
we  have 

^(/)  =  he''''  r  e-^-"'+*^('->  dt.  (13) 

J— 00 

Thus  it  is  seen  that  the  inner  integral  of  (11)  is  equal  to  g~*'^^^(/)  and  the 
equation  becomes 

Fo(/)=^(/)[    H (7)6-'^"^"'^' dr.  (14) 

Now  the  F.T.  of  H{t)  is  Z{f),  i.e. 

Z(/)  =    r  H{l)e~'''' dt.  (15) 

J— 00 

Therefore 

Zif  +  fo)  =    r  HiOe-'^"^'"'^' di.  (16) 

«/— 00 

This  differs  from  the  integral  in  (14)  only  in  the  lower  limit  of  integration. 
But  since  H{t)  is  the  response  to  an  impulse  appHed  at  time  /  =  0,  H(t)  = 
0  for  /  <  0  and  the  two  integrals  are  therefore  equal.  Putting  (16)  in  (14) 
we  have,  finally 

Uf)  =  r  HO  +  ibm-'"'  dt  =  *(/)z(/ + /o).      (17) 

J— 00 

The  F.T.  of  the  conjugate  envelope  function,  a  —  ib,  is 

Foi-f)  =    r  [a(t)  -  ime-""  dt  =  *(-/)Z(-/  +  /„)        (18) 

J— 00 

where  symbols  with  the  superbar  denote  the  complex  conjugates  of  unbarred 
symbols.  Since  Z(f)  is  the  F.T.  of  a  real  variable,  H(t),  it  must  assume  con- 
jugate values  for  positive  and  negative  values  of/,  i.e.,  Z(f)  =  Z{—f)  and 
therefore  Z{f  +  /o)  =  Z{—  /  +  /o).     Consequently,  (18)  could  be  written 

F\i-f)  =  ^{-f)Z(f  +  fo)  (19) 

(17)  and  (18)  are  the  final  solutions  in  frequency  functions  corresponding 
to  the  solutions  (8)  and  (9)  in  time  functions.  The  formulas  in  frequency 
functions  have  the  advantage  of  compactness,  which  makes  them  easy  to 
remember. 

We  require  also  the  F.T.  of  the  voltage  itself,  V  (/),  which  we  shall  call 
F(f).     From  (6) 

F(f)  =  f "  ViOe-'"-'  dt  =  i  r  {a+  ib)e-'^''-"'^'dt 

J— CO  J~oo 

-hi  ("  {a-  ih)e~'^''^'''^  dU    (20) 

J— 00 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER  721 

and  from  (17)  and  (18)  this  evidently  is 

HI)  =  mf  -  fo)z{f)  +  m-f  -  fo)2(-f)         (21) 

or,  since  Z(f)  =  Z(-f) 

F{f)  =  hZ(f)  Mf  -  /o)  +  ^(-/  -  /o)].  (22) 

Anyone  familiar  with  the  rules  of  Fourier  transforms  could  write  down  this 
frequency  function  in  the  first  place  and  then  proceed  to  find  the  time  func- 
tions by  the  reverse  of  the  process  just  carried  out.  But  the  time  functions 
are  more  closely  related  to  the  physics  of  the  problem  and  therefore  provide 
a  more  fundamental  starting  point  for  its  solution. 

It  will  be  appreciated  that,  although  the  above  discussion  has  been  phrased 
to  apply  to  the  problem  of  finding  the  voltage  drop  across  an  impedance 
when  a  frequency  modulated  current  flows  through  it,  the  formulas  also  give 
the  current  through  an  admittance  when  a  frequency-modulated  voltage  is 
applied  across  it.  They  also  give  the  output  voltage  or  current  of  a  four- 
terminal  network  when  a  frequency-modulated  current;  or  voltage  is  applied 
at  the  input.  These  various  applications  of  the  formulas  obviously  can  be 
made  by  placing  definitions  on  Z  and  H  appropriate  to  the  particular 
problem. 

The  next  step  is  to  assume  suitable  values  of  the  impedance  Z(f)  and  vari- 
ous forms  of  the  frequency  modulation  function  d  and  to  employ  these 
particular  values  in  the  general  formulas  8,  9,  17  and  18. 

Balanced  Frequency  Detector 

The  impedance  can  be  defined,  in  general,  as  a  rational  algebraic  function, 
viz.: 

,     .         (ico  -  ai)(i(a  -  ch)  "  '   {iw  -  dm)        PM  /^.x 

Z{l(A})     =      7-. ..- r .- r    =     -  ,  .     .    .  {^Z6) 

{tea    —    pl){tT    —    p2)    "  •    {tOJ    —    pn)  Q{^0)) 

Writing  the  polynominals  P  and  Q  in  this  way  as  the  products  of  their  factors 
exhibits  the  a's  as  the  zeros  of  Z  and  the  p's  as  the  poles.  The  latter  deter- 
mine the  frequencies  of  free  vibration  of  the  network.  For  the  network  to 
be  stable,  the  p's  must  all  have  negative  real  parts.  The  a's  and  />'s  are 
either  real  or  occur  in  conjugate  complex  pairs.  By  the  partial  fraction 
rule,  the  expression  can  be  broken  up  into  a  series  of  simple  fractions;  thus 

Z(:-co)  =  ^^   +  ^^   +  •  •  •  .  (24) 

ZCt)    —    Pi  ICO    —    p2 

If  the  poles  are  all  simple,  the  A 's  are  given  by 

A=^^  (25) 


722  .  BELL  S  YSTEM  TECH  NIC  A  L  JOURNA  L 

For  the  present  purpose,  only  a  pair  of  terms  of  (24)  need  be  considered. 
This  will  provide  a  specific  solution  of  the  balanced  frequency  detector  for  the 
case,  previously  used  for  illustration,  where  the  impedances  are  two  simple 
resonant  circuits  of  parallel  R,  L  and  C.  At  the  same  time,  this  solution 
can  be  extended  to  more  complicated  circuits  by  superposing  a  number  of 
such  elementary  solutions,  as  is  clearly  possible  with  the  type  of  impedance 
development  indicated  by  (24). 

The  impedance  of  i?,  L  and  C  in  parallel,  written  in  the  form  of  (23)  and 
(24),  is 


Z(faj)   =   —  7-T — ,  ...    -T   = + 


C  (ioj  —  p\){i(ii  —  pi)        io)  —  p\        i(j3  —  p2 


(26) 


+ 


where 

—  p\  =  y  =  a  +  i^ 

—  p2  =  y  =  a  —i^ 


2C\    ^  (3/ 


_        1  R-./i  1  _         /-^ 2  _    -J— 

"'IRC         ^'VlC       4i?2C2  ~  ^"«-«'  """VZC- 

The  voltage  response  of  the  circuit  to  a  unit  impulse  of  current  is  then 

H{t)  =    r  ("^-4—  +  ^-A-^)  e'^'  df  =  ke-''  +  ke-'\     t  >  0.      (27) 
J-oo  \io3  +  7        103  -\-  y/ 

To  find  the  envelope  function  of  the  voltage  drop  when  the  frequency 
modulated  current 

is  applied  to  the  circuit,  we  make  use  of  the  general  formula,  (17),  which 
states  that  the  spectrum,  or  Fourier  transform,  of  this  envelope  function  is 

Ml)  =   r  Ht)  +  i6(/)le-'"'  dt  =  *(/)Z(/  +  /„)  (17) 

J— 00 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER  723 

where  ^(/)  is  the  F.T.  of  h  exp  [id{t)]  and  Z(/)  is  the  impedance,  (26),  in  this 
case.     The  envelope  function  then  is 

a{l)  +  ib(t)  =    r  mm/  +  Me'"'  df 

J— 00 

=  hke-^''^'-^"^'   f    e(-o+»r+v^(r)  ^^  (28) 

J- 00 

J— 00 

This  result  is  obtained  by  employing  the  convolution  formula^,  which  states 
that  if  Fi  and  F2  are  F.T.'s  of  Gi  and  G2 ,  respectively,  then  the  F.T.  of  F1F2  is 

r  F,{f)F2{f)e''"  df  =    f  *  G,{r)G2{t  -  r)  dr.  (29) 

J—ao  J— 00 

(The  upper  limit  of  the  integrals  in  (28)  is  /  instead  of  go  for  the  reason  that 
H{t)  is  zero  for  /  <  0.)  The  result  could  have  been  obtained  equally  well 
without  using  the  Fourier  transforms  by  substituting  (27)  in  (8).  When 
6{t)  is  specified  mathematically  in  the  infinite  interval  (—00,  «=)  these 
formulas  give  the  resultant  of  the  steady  state  and  transient  oscillations. 
\'arious  problems  can  be  solved  by  specifying  particular  forms  of  variation 
for  d{t).  Two  examples  follow:  (1)  where  the  instantaneous  frequency, 
6'{i),  is  an  impulse  and  (2),  where  0\i)  is  a  sinusoidal  wave,  as  for  elemen- 
tary signal  transmission. 

Example  1 :  Impulse  Modulation 

Ignition  interference  comprises  a  sequence  of  sharp  impulses,  each  of  du- 
ration very  brief  compared  to  the  interval  between  them,  so  that  the  tran- 
sient in  the  receiver  produced  by  one  impulse  dies  away  before  the  next  one 
arrives.  It  is  therefore  sufficient  to  consider  the  disturbance  caused  by  a 
single  impulse. 

If  the  receiver  is  perfectly  tuned,  an  impulse  produces,  in  the  tuned  cir- 
cuits, a  transient  of  the  same  nominal  frequency^  as  the  signal  carrier. 
When  superposed  on  the  carrier,  the  interfering  transient  alters,  or  mod- 
ulates, both  the  amplitude  and  phase  of  the  carrier.  The  amplitude  mod- 
ulation is  wiped  out  by  the  limiter,  but  the  phase  modulation  remains  to 
produce  noise  in  the  output.  The  phase  shift  caused  by  the  transient  is  a 
random  variable,  because  it  depends  upon  the  time  of  arrival  of  the  impulse, 
and  this  is  entirely  fortuitous. 

'  See  pair  202  of  Item  10  in  the  bibliography. 

^  By  "nominal  frequency"  is  meant  the  frequency  as  determined  by  counting  zeros  of 
the  wave .  The  transient  actually  comprises  a  spectrum  of  frequencies  spread  over  the 
band  of  the  tuned  circuits,  of  course. 


724  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

It  is  of  engineering  interest  to  determine  the  noise  produced  by  a  very 
large  impulse,  exceeding  greatly  the  ampHtude  of  the  signal  carrier.  When 
such  a  large  impulse  arrives,  it  causes  a  sudden  jump,  or  discontinuity,  in 
the  phase  of  the  carrier.  The  excursion  of  the  instantaneous  frequency 
corresponding  to  the  phase  jump  is  indefinitely  large  and  the  problem  ac- 
cordingly cannot  be  solved  satisfactorily  by  means  of  the  usual  assumption 
of  quasi-stationary  frequency.  The  problem  of  large  impulsive  interference 
provides,  therefore,  the  principal  justification  for  the  more  exact  method  of 
analysis  here  employed.  In  the  paragraph  following,  the  problem  is  re- 
stated in  terms  providing  a  suitable  basis  for  mathematical  analysis. 

We  assume,  as  before,  that  the  Hmiter  is  deUvering  to  the  frequency  de- 
tector a  steady  carrier  current  of  constant  amphtude  h  and  frequency  /o . 
At  time  /  =  0  a  brief  disturbance  occurs  specified  by  the  statement  that 
the  instantaneous  frequency,  0'(/),  of  the  current  suddenly  executes  an 
impulse  of  moment  9.  That  is:  ^'(0  is  zero  at  all  times  except  at  /  =  0, 
when  it  goes  to  infinity  and  back  to  zero  again  in  such  a  way  that  the  area 
of  the  impulse  so  formed  is  0.  The  carrier  current  ampHtude  then  remains 
constant  but  the  phase,  ^(/),  of  the  carrier  takes  a  sudden  jump  of  0  radians 
at  /  =  0.    What  is  the  voltage  output  of  the  frequency  detector? 

The  general  formula  (28)  gives  directly  the  envelope  function  of  the  volt- 
age across  the  impedance  (26)  for  a  phase  function  d{t).  In  this  formula  we 
have  now  to  put  d{i)  =  0  before  time  /  =  0  and  0,  after  /  =  0.  We  do  this  by 
dividing  the  interval  of  integration  into  two  parts,  (—  «» ,  0)  and  (0,  t)\  thus 

a{t)  -f  ib(t)  =  M^-^'"°+^^'  U     e^'"°+^^^  dr  -f  e'®  f  e^''^'^'^'  dr^ 

=  hk^'-  ^^''"^'"'"  +  -%  M  (^  -  ^^"^'l:'  +  -" .     (30) 

Let  the  radian  frequency  interval  by  which  the  applied  frequency  co© 
is  set  oflF  from  the  resonant  frequency  coc  be 

A  =  coo  —  tOc  (31) 

as  indicated  on  the  curves  of  Fig.  2.  Whena/wc  is  small  compared  to  unity, 
as  it  is  in  practical  circuits,  jS  is  very  nearly  equal  to  Wc .  (See  the  formulas 
following  equations  (26).)     Then 

iwo  +  7  =  ^wo  +  a  +  iwc  =  a  —  iA  -f-  2^coo 

and 

ia>o  +  7  =  *wo  +  a  —  iwc  =  a  -h  iA.  (32) 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER  725 

From  this  it  is  evident  that  the  first  term  of  (30)  contains  the  demodulation 
sum  product  of  frequency  on  the  order  of  2ajo  .  This  frequency  will  be 
suppressed  by  the  diode  load  circuit  and  consequently  the  second  term  of 
(30)  is  an  adequate  representation  of  the  envelope  function.  Therefore  we 
write 

a{t)  +  ib{t)  =  hk  ^- {       .    _     ^  (33) 

?ajo  +  7 

and  with  the  above  approximations  this  is  very  nearly  equal  to 

a{t)  +  ib{t)  =  A  (J '   )'  +  '    .  (34) 

2C  a  -\-  iA 

One  deduction  that  can  be  made  immediately  from  this  formula  is  that  the 
frequency  of  the  oscillation  in  the  output  of  the  rectifier  caused  by  the  phase 
jump  at  the  input  is  A,  the  radian  frequency  interval  by  which  the  applied 
carrier  frequency  differs  from  the  resonant  frequency.  The  oscillation  is 
heavily  damped,  however,  because  a,  while  being  very  small  compared  to 
coc ,  is  comparable  in  magnitude  with  A  in  circuits  commonly  used. 

The  angle  of  the  complex  envelope  function  (34)  represents  merely 
a  phase  shift  of  the  carrier  frequency  coo .  We  are  interested  only  in  the 
magnitude  of  the  function,  viz.: 

ciO  =  [a'it)  +  bmf"^  (35) 

After  some  algebraic  work,  the  desired  formula  comes  out  of  (34)  in  the 
following  form: 

h_\l  -  2m{t)  sin  Ut  +  |)  +  ^'(0 J        ^  > 


where 


(a2  +  A'^y 


m{i)  =  2e~"'  sin  I  (36) 


The  discussion  so  far  has  dealt  with  a  single  impedance  (or  network)  and  has 
been  concerned  with  obtaining  formulas  for  the  voltage  across  the  imped- 
ance, and  the  envelope  thereof,  when  a  frequency-modulated  current  is  sent 
through  it.  It  is  necessary  now  to  refer  to  the  construction  of  the  balanced 
frequency  detector,  which  is  the  particular  object  of  our  study.  Figure  1 
shows  two  impedances  having  the  variation  with  frequency  sketched  in 
Fig.  2.  The  carrier  current  is  driven  through  the  two  impedances  in  series 
and  linear  rectifiers  are  connected  across  each  in  such  polarity  that  their 
low-frequency  output  voltages  are  opposed.     We  assume  that  the  output 


726  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

voltage  of  each  rectifier  is  the  envelope  of  the  voltage  existing  across  its 
associated  impedance.  Therefore,  to  find  the  total  output  of  the  balanced 
frequency  detector,  we  have  to  find  the  difference  between  the  envelopes  of 
these  voltages. 

It  is  necessary  to  specify  the  two  impedances  more  precisely.  It  appears 
that  the  best  operation  is  obtained  if  the  frequency  of  the  carrier  is  midway 
between  the  resonant  frequencies  of  the  two  impedances.     That  is 

A  =  coo  —  coi  =  C02  —  coo 

where  coi ,  C02  are  the  resonant  frequencies  of  Zi ,  Z2 ,  (previously  written  as 
coc,  for  any  impedance).  Furthermore  it  appears  that  the  two  impedances 
should  have  identical  values  of  C  and  very  nearly  the  same  damping  con- 
stants.    The  design  of  the  detector  circuit  is  accordingly  specified  by 

Ci  =  C2  ^^  C 

R\  =  Ro  =  R 


and  then 


U  =  l/co?C 

U  =  I/C02C 

Oil 

=  a2  =  a  =   1/2RC 

kl 

=  k2   =   k  =  1/2C 

(a/coo  «  1) 

(37) 

% 

C02        coo  +  A 

u 

«a'i        a'o  —  A 

All  the  quantities  are  assumed  to  be  substantially  constant  over  the  signifi- 
cant frequency  range. 

With  the  circuit  constants  so  proportioned,  it  can  be  seen  from  (36)  that 
the  envelope  of  the  voltage  across  Zi  differs  from  that  across  Z2  only  in  the 
sign  of  A.  Therefore,  the  output  voltage  of  the  balanced  frequency  detector, 
when  the  instantaneous  frequency  variation  is  an  impulse  of  moment  9  at 
/  =  0,  is 


Vo{t)  =  €2(1)  -  c,{t) 
h 

ic 


=  t  («^  +  A^)"'^  ([1  +  2;r.  sin  (a/  -  |)  +  y^J^' 

(38) 
i  >  0 


1  -  2w  sin  (m  +  I )  -r  w        j 


-at      •       9 


=  0,         /  <  0,     where  m  =  2e  "   sin  -  . 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER 


727 


On  Fig.  5  is  given  a  plot  of  this  function  for  a  value  a/ A  =  1  of  the  rela- 
tive damping.  Calculations  for  other  values  of  a/A  show  that  the  output  os- 
cillates only  weakly  for  a/ A  =  h  and  is  nearly  dead-beat  for  a/A  =  2 


0.9 
2  0.8 

.  ro.7 


0.6 


0;  0.4 


0.3 


Vq 

.t)= 

Rh 

1 

^f(0 

IN    VOLTS 

1 

V 

WHERE    h  =  CARRIER- CURRENT  AMPLITUDE    AT 
FREQUENCY- DETECTOR    INPUT 
a:,  A,  R=  DAMPING    CONSTANT,   HALF-BAND    WIDTH,  AND 
RESISTANCE    OF    FREQUENCY- DETECTOR 
CIRCUIT 

h 

\ 
\ 

i 

>    1 
1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

'35\ 

V°  =  ,n^5II'«Ies 

II 

/ 

7^ 

\ 

\ 

\l 

r 

\ 

^.^ 

A=a: 

1 

^\ 

\ 

"^ 

^s 

X 

N. 

b-- 



-.: 1 

-0.1 

0       20      40      60       80     too     120     140     160     180    200    220    240    260   280    300    320  340    360 

At    IN    DEGREES 

Fig.  5 — Transient  response  of  a  balanced  frequency  detector  for  a  step  0  in  the  carrier 

phase. 

Example  2:  Signal  Reception 

If  the  carrier  is  frequency-modulated  by  a  signal 

s{t)  =  S  cos  qt  (39) 

and  the  frequency  modulation  factor  of  the  transmitter  is  /x,  the  phase  of  the 
carrier  wave  is  made  to  vary  in  accordance  with  the  relation 


s(t)  dt  =  —  sin  qt  =  X  sin  qt 

00  0 


(40) 


/x5  is  then  the  radian  frequency  deviation  of  the  transmitter  and  fiS/q, 
which  is  the  ratio  of  this  frequency  deviation  to  the  frequency  of  the  signal, 
is  commonly  referred  to  as  the  '^frequency  deviation  ratio."  This  factor, 
which  is  denoted  by  x  in  the  above  equation,  enters  as  a  fundamental 
parameter  in  all  FM  theory. 

To  find  the  envelope  function  of  the  voltage  wave  produced  across  the 
impedance  (26),  when  the  frequency-modulated  carrier  is  received  at  the 
frequency  detector,  we  put  (40)  in  (28).  To  effect  the  integration,  the 
expansion 


e'"'°"=     Z    Mx)e""" 


(41) 


728  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

is  used,  Jn{x)  being  the  Bessel  coefficient  of  the  first  kind,  of  the  nth  order  and 
with  the  argument  x.  For  brevity,  J  nix)  will  be  written  Jn  .  Also,  the 
first  term  of  (28)  is  to  be  omitted,  because,  as  was  shown  in  the  preceding 
example,  it  represents  frequency  sum  terms  which  are  filtered  out  by  the 
diode  output  circuit.     Then  we  have 

~     a{t)  +  ih{t)  =  hke-^"'''-'''  f  e''"-^'''    E    jy""'' dr.  (42) 

•'—00  n=—oo 

When  the  integration  is  carried  out,  the  result  is 

ao  J      inqt  00  j      inqt 

a{t)  +  ibit)  =  hk    Z    ^    i-^--^   =  ^^    Z    -^rr4-r---    (43) 

n=-oo   iCOo    +    T   +   ^^9  n=-oo  «    +    tA    +    tfiq 

To  obtain  the  magnitude  of  a  +  ib,  which  is  the  envelope  required,  we  multi- 
ply the  above  Fourier  series  for  a -\-  ib  hy  that  for  a  —  ib,  obtaining  a  double 
summation,  which  can  be  written  as  follows: 


c\i)  =  a\t)  +  b\i)  =  Co  +  E  (<;„«•""  +  e„e-'"") 

n=l 

00 

=  flo  +  2  2^  a^  cos  nqt 

n=l 

where  an  is  the  real  part  of  the  complex  coefficient  Cn  and  ao  =  co . 
The  coefficients  are  given  by 

h^      Jl,  T     T 


(44) 


z 


4C2  m=-oo  (a  —  tA  —  imq)[a  +  ^A  +  i{m  +  n)q] 


fi         V^  JmJn 


(45) 


Cn   —     .  ^«      ■/  ■■ 


4C2w=-oo  (a  +  iA  +  imq)[a  —  tA  —  i(^  +  w)^]' 
Obtaining  this  result  involves  use  of  the  relation 

J^n{x)    =  i-T  Jn{x).  (46) 

From  (45) 

^    J^     y^       JraJm^nW   +    (A   +   ^g)  (A    +   Wg   +   ^g)]  /.ys 

"       4C2  m=-^  [a^  +  (A  +  wg)2][a2  +  (a  +  ;«g  +  nqy\  ^ 

Finally,  we  have  to  obtain,  as  before,  the  difference  between  the  en- 
velopes of  the  voltages  across  the  two  impedances  of  the  balanced  frequency 
detector;  that  is,  we  have  to  determine 

V,{t)  =  cM  -  ci{t)  (48) 

where  Ci(l)  is  given  by  (44)  as  it  stands  and  62(1)  is  obtained  from  the  same 
expression  merely  by  reversing  the  sign  of  A.     The  complete  solution  for 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER 


729 


the  output  voltage  of  the  frequency  detector,  when  a  phase  variation, 
B'if)  =  xq  cos  g/,  is  impressed  on  the  carrier  at  the  input,  then  is 

[00  -|l/2  r  «  -|l/2 

^0  +  2  22  a„2  cos  nqt\      —     flo  +  2  2Z  ^m  cos  nqt  (49) 


where  a„i  is  given  by  (47)  and  On2  is  given  by  the  same  formula  with  the 
sign  of  A  reversed. 

An  approximation  that  is  permissible  when  the  frequency  swing  xq  does 
not  approach  the  available  frequency  range  A  is 


^o(0  =   2  ^n  cos  nqt 


where 


An    = 


an2   ~~    O'nl 


V 


(h 


n  odd;  =  0,  w  even. 


(SO) 


(51) 


The  table  following  gives  the  results  of  a  computation  of  the  first  four 
coefl&cients  from  formulas  (45)  and  (51)  for  the  case  of  a  frequency  deviation 
ratio,  a;  =  5,  for  q/lir  =  3000  cycles  per  second,  for  A/27r  =  30,000  cycles 
per  second  and  for  a/A  =  J,  1  and  2. 


Coefficient 

a/A  =  .5 

1.0 

2.0 

^0 

Ax 

A2 

Az 

0 
.848 

0 
.0312 

0 

.478 

0 

-.00438 

0 

.191 

0 

-.00281 

Note:  To  obtain  volts,  multiply  all  values  by 


Rha 


(a2  +  A2)i/2 


The  coefficients  for  even  values  of  n  vanish,  which  confirms  what  can  be 
inferred  from  physical  considerations,  namely,  that  the  balanced  construc- 
tion of  the  frequency  detector  eliminates  the  d.c.  component  and  all  even 
harmonics.  From  the  ratio  of  ^3  to  ^i  we  obtain  the  following  ratios,  ex- 
pressed in  db's,  of  the  third  harmonic  distortion  to  the  fundamental  signal 
for  the  three  circuit  designs: 

a/A  201ogl0U3/^i| 


.5 

-28.7  db 

1.0 

-40.8 

2.0 

-36.6 

The  results  for  the  sinusoidal  signal,  when  considered  in  conjunction  with 
those  for  the  impulse  modulation,  also  permit  certain  conclusions  regarding 
signal-to-noise  ratios  for  impulsive  interference  in  FM  reception. 


730  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Ratio  of  Noise  to  Signal 

It  may  be  helpful,  in  conclusion,  to  attempt  a  theoretical  estimate  of  the 
ratio  of  noise  to  signal  in  the  audio  output  under  the  condition  of  severe 
impulsive  interference.  , 

The  ratio  of  the  peak  value  of  the  pulse  to  the  signal  amplitude  at  the 
frequency  detector  output  is  given  by  the  ratio  of  the  peak  values  of /(/), 
as  plotted  in  figure  5,  to  the  values  of  ^i  in  the  table  above.  To  obtain 
a  result  of  practical  significance,  however,  the  effect  of  the  audio  circuit 
should  be  taken  into  account.  In  the  absence  of  specific  information  on 
the  structure  of  this  circuit,  we  assume  that  the  peak  value  of  a  pulse  at 
its  output  is  equal  to  the  area,  or  moment,  of  the  pulse  at  its  input  times 
twice  the  audio  cutoff  frequency.  This  is  true  for  an  ideal  ''square  cutoff" 
filter  and  not  seriously  in  error  for  actual  circuits.  The  area  of  the  largest 
pulse  at  the  frequency  detector  output  is  approximately  2A/{a  +  A  )  and 
the  value  of  Ai,  the  signal  fundamental  amplitude,  can  be  approximated  by 

a^  +  A^ 

(For  the  example  above,  this  approximation  gives  Ai  =  .8,  .5  and  .2  as 
compared  to  the  exact  values,  .848,  .478  and  .191.)  In  this  way  we  arrive 
at  the  following  estimate  of  the  peak  ratio  of  noise  to  signal  in  the  audio 
output: 

Max.  value  of  largest  pulse  _     oja  fco\ 

Signal  amplitude  ir  x  q 

where  Wo  is  the  cutoff-frequency  of  the  audio  circuit,  q  the  signal  frequency 
and  X  the  frequency  deviation  ratio.  Then  xq  is  the  "frequency  swing"  of 
the  transmitter,  i.  e.,  the  maximum  departure  of  the  instantaneous  frequen- 
cy from  its  mean  value.  It  is  to  be  noted  that  this  formula  is  free  from  the 
detector  circuit  parameters,  a,  A,  R,  and  indicates  that,  to  a  first  approxi- 
mation, at  least,  the  maximum  ratio  of  noise  to  signal  depends  only  upon 
the  audio  circuit  cutoff  frequency  and  the  FM  swing.  Furthermore,  this 
establishes  a  ceiling  for  the  interference  that  will  not  be  exceeded  no  mat- 
ter how  large  the  impulses  may  be. 

Bibliography 

1.  Variable  Frequency  Electric  Circuit  Theory  with  Application  to  the  Theory  of  Fre- 

quency-Modulation, John  R.  Carson  and  Thornton  C.  Fry  in  Bell  System  Technical 
Journal,  Vol.  XVI,  No.  4,  October  1937. 

2.  The  Detection  of  Frequency  Modulated  Waves,  J.  G.  Chaffee  in  Proc.  LR.E.,  Vol.  23, 

May  1935.     (Bell  Tel.  Sys.  Monograph  B-863) 

3.  Effects  of  Tuned  Circuits  upon  a  Frequency  Modulated  Signal,  Hans  Roder  in  Proc. 

LR.E.,  Vol.  25,  December  1937. 

4.  The  Reception  of  Frequency-Modulated  Radio  Signals,  Victor  J.  Andrew  in  Proc. 

LR.E.,  Vol.  20,  May  1932. 


TRANSIENT  RESPONSE  OF  AN  FM  RECEIVER  731 

5.  The  Phase  Discriminator,  K.  R.  Sturley  in  Wireless  Engineer,  February  1944. 

6.  Radio  Engineers  Handbook,  F.  E.  Terman,  First  Ed.,  pp.  585-588. 

7.  Motor  Car  Ignition  Interference,  C.  C.  E^glesfield  in  Wireless  Engineer,  23,  1946. 

8.  Interference  Problems  in  Frequency  Modulation,  F.  L.  H.  M.   Stumpers  in  Philips 

Research  Reports,  2,  1947. 

9.  On  the  Calculation  of  Impulse  Noise  Transients  in  Frequency  Modulation  Receivers, 

F.  L.  H.  M.  Stumpers  in  Philips  Research  Reports,  2,  1947. 

10.  Fourier  Integrals  for  Practical  Applications,  George  A.  Campbell  and  Ronald  M.  Foster 

in  Bell  System  Technical  Journal,  October  1928 — Monograph  B-584. 


Transverse  Fields  in  Traveling- Wave  Tubes 

By  J.  R.  PIERCE 

Traveling-wave  tubes  will  have  gain  even  if  the  r-f  field  at  the  mean  position 
of  the  electron  stream  is  purely  transverse.  The  addition  of  a  longitudinal  mag- 
netic focusing  field  reduces  the  gain  due  to  transverse  fields  and  increases  the 
electron  velocity  for  optimum  gain. 

ALL  slow  electromagnetic  waves  have  both  longitudinal  and  transverse 
electric  field  components.  Sometimes  either  the  longitudinal  or  the 
transverse  field  may  go  to  zero  along  a  line  or  plane  parallel  to  the  direction 
of  propagation.  For  instance,  for  the  slow  mode  of  propagation  there  is  no 
transverse  field  on  the  axis  of  a  helically-conducting  sheet.  Still,  over  any 
plane  normal  to  the  direction  of  propagation  there  are  bound  to  be  both 
longitudinal  and  transverse  field  components. 

If  a  very  strong  longitudinal  magnetic  field  is  used  in  connection  with  a 
traveling-wave  tube,  the  transverse  motions  of  electrons  may  be  so  restricted 
as  to  be  of  Uttle  importance.  With  weak  focusing  fields,  however,  the  trans- 
verse motion  of  electrons  may  be  important  in  producing  gain.  The  trans- 
verse fields  can  force  the  electrons  sidewise,  and  thus  change  the 
longitudinal  fields  acting  on  them  in  such  a  way  as  to  abstract  energy  from 
the  electron  stream.^  This  is  closely  analagous  to  the  action  of  the  longi- 
tudinal fields  in  displacing  electrons  forward  or  backward  into  regions  of 
greater  or  lesser  longitudinal  field. 

The  purpose  of  this  paper  is  to  analyze  the  behavior  of  traveling-wave 
tubes  in  which  transverse  fields  are  important.  The  attack  will  be  similar 
to  that  used  previously.^ 

1.  Circuit  Theory 

In  this  paper  we  shall  consider  only  the  electric  field  associated  with  the 
slow  mode  of  propagation  along  the  circuit  having  a  speed  close  to  the  elec- 
tron speed,  and  we  shall  neglect  other  field  components  attributable  to  local 
space  charge.  The  writer  believes  the  results  so  obtained  to  be  vaUd  at  low 
currents  but  in  error  at  high  currents,  and  an  acceptable  guide  at  currents 
usually  encountered. 

In  an  earlier  paper^  a  relation  was  found  between  the  longitudinal  field  Ez 
excited  in  a  mode  of  propagation  of  a  transmission  system  and  the  longitud- 

1  See,  for  instance,  J.  R.  Pierce  and  W.  G.  Shepherd,  "Reflex  Oscillators,"  B.  S.  T.  /., 
Vol.  26,  No.  3,  pp.  666-670  (Julv,  1947). 

2  J.  R.  Pierce,  "Theory  of  the  Beam-Type  Traveling- Wave  Tube,"  Froc.  I.  R.  E.,  Vol. 
35,  pp.  111-123,  Feb.  1947. 

732 


TRAVELING-WAVE  TUBES  733 

inal  exciting  current  q.  Both  E,  and  q  vary  as  (expj(al)  (exp  —  Tz).  The 
relation  is 

^'  =  ''^o*(r^-rS)-  •  ^^^ 

Here  To  is  the  propagation  constant  of  the  transmission  mode  considered  and 
is  defined  in  such  a  sense  that  for  unattenuated  propagation,  To  =  j^o  where 
jSo  is  a  positive  number.     The  quantity  \f/o  is  defined  as 

2P 
^0  =  ;^.  (2) 

Here  P  is  complex  power  transmitted  by  the  mode  and  Eg  is  the  field  asso- 
ciated with  the  mode. 

In  generalizing  (1),  let  us  consider  the  combination  of  equations  (1)  and 
(2) 

p*  =  iqE:-r^,.  (3) 

1     —  1  0 

Now,  suppose  there  is  motion  of  the  electrons  not  only  in  the  z  direction  but 
in  a  direction  normal  to  the  z  direction,  which  we  will  call  the  y  direction. 
We  shall  have  two  extra  first-order  terms  of  the  same  general  nature  as 
qEg ,  which  contribute  to  the  power,  giving 

P*  =  i-(?,£:  +  {-Io)y  ^  +  ?„£.*)  j;r3Yl '  ^*^ 

Here  qz  is  the  a-c  convection  current  in  the  z  direction,  — /o  is  the  d-c  con- 
vection current  in  the  z  direction  (assumed  to  be  the  only  d-c  convection 
current),  y  is  a  small  displacement,  qy  is  the  convection  current  in  the  y 
direction  and  Ey  is  the  field  in  the  y  direction. 

We  will  now  speciahze  this  expression.  Suppose  we  consider  a  two-dimen- 
sional transverse  magnetic  wave  propagating  in  the  z  direction  with  a  phase 
velocity  v  such  that  v^  <<C  c^.  Then  over  a  restricted  region  the  electric 
field  can  be  represented  quite  accurately  as  the  gradient  of  a  scaler  potential 
of 

F  =  exp  (-Tz)(A  exp  (jTy)  +  B  exp  {-jTy)).  (5) 

Here  A  and  B  are  constants.  Using  our  notation,  in  which  the  field  is 
understood  to  include  the  factor  exp  (—Tz),  we  obtain 

Ez  =  T{A  exp  OTy)  +  B  exp  (-;Ty))  (6) 

^^  =  jr\A  exp  (jTy)  -  B  exp  {-  jTy))  (7) 

oy 

Ey  =  -jTiA  exp  U^y)  -  B  exp  (-;Ty)).  (8) 


734  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

In  other  words 

^^=    -VEy.  (9) 

This  relation  will  also  be  approximately  correct  remote  from  the  axis  in  an 
axially  symmetrical  tube.  Here  we  let  y  represent  a  displacement  in  the  r 
direction. 

We  may  also  define  a  quantity  a  so  that 

Ey=jaE,  (10) 

-{A  exp  QTy)  -  B  exp  (-;Ty))  ,^^. 

Ay  exp  {jVy)  +  B  exp  {-jVy) 

For  an  active  mode,  such  as  the  one  we  consider,  the  chief  component  of 
jV  is  a  positive  real  number.  Hence,  for  large  positive  values  of  y,  the 
quantity  a  approaches  a  value 

a  =  1 .  (12) 

This  is  characteristic  of  a  plane  symmetrical  field  far  from  the  axis  and  also 
of  an  axially  symmetrical  field  far  from  the  axis. 
Using  (9)  and  (12)  we  rewrite  (4) 

P*  =  l-E*fe  -  j«*(r*/oy  +  qy)]  (13) 

We  see  from  this  that,  according  to  our  assumptions,  for  the  mode  considered, 

£.  =  {q,  -  ia*(r*  /oy  +  qy))  ^^^^^l'_  ^2^^  •  (14) 

We  will  henceforward  assume  that  a  and  ^  are  so  nearly  real  that  we  can 
regard  them  as  real  quantities,  giving 

E,  =  \q.  ~  jaiT*  7„  y  +  qy)]  ^^^^^I[_  pg)  •  ( l-'^) 

This  is,  then,  the  circu't  equation  which  we  will  use. 
2.  Electronics  Equations 

We  will  assume  an  unperturbed  motion  of  velocity  uq  in  the  z  direction, 
parallel  to  a  uniform  magnetic  field  of  strength  B.  Products  of  a-c  quantities 
will  be  neglected. 

In  the  X  direction,  perpendicular  to  the  y  and  z  direction 

Assume  that  :t  =  0  at  y  =  0.    Then 

X  =  -riBy.  (17) 


J 


TRAVELING-WAVE  TUBES  735 

In  the  y  direction  we  have 


Now 


dy  _ 
dt 

r,(Bx- 

y«£,). 

dy 
dt 

dt  ^ 

dydz 
dzJt 

dy 
dt 

=  <j^ 

-  r)y 

/3 

CO 
Wo* 

We  obtain  from  (20)  and  (18),  and  (17) 


y  -  ulKj^  -  rf  +  fill 

-jriaUfi  -  V)E, 
y  -  n,\{jfi  -  Tf  +  f^ 

We  will  have  for  qy 

qy  = 

qy  = 

jvaloij^  -  T)E, 

It  is  easily  shown  that 

.  _           rjEz 

(18) 

(19) 
(20) 

(21) 


(jfi-r)y=:-uofily-^^!^  (22) 

^0=^.  (23) 

Uo 

We  may  note  that  rjE  is  the  electron  cyclotron  frequency.     Now, 

.  _  dy       dy  dz 

^  ~  dt        ^Tt  (24) 

y  =  Uq{j^  -  T)y. 
From  (24)  and  (22)  we  obtain 

-''"'^'       -  (25) 

(26) 

(27) 
(28) 

(29) 


ihUfi  -  r) 


736  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

If  po  is  the  d-c  linear  charge  density  and  p  the  a-c  Hnear  charge  density 

Po  =  --.  (30) 

If  g,  is  the  z  component  of  convention  current,  we  have 

qz  =  PqZ  -\-  Uqp     ■ 

(31) 


• 

tdop. 

We  also  have 

dqz 
dz 

Tqz 

dp 
dt 

=  J03p. 

From  (31)  and  (32) 

we 

obtain 

Thus 

jv^hE, 

(32) 


(33) 


?'  =  4(i/3-r)-  (^^) 


3.  Combined  Equation 
Combining  (34),  (28)  and  (25)  with  (IS),  we  obtain 

_  ^0        To       r     iff  aKr*  -  (iff  -  r))1 

^  -  «5  ^o(r^  -  Tl)  L(iff  -  r)5       [(iff  -  D  +  ffS]  J  •     ^  ^ 

We  now  introduce  new  parameters 

K  =  ^  =  ^1^  (36) 

C^  =  ('^«V  (37) 


Here  Po  is  the  power  transmitted  by  the  circuit  for  a  field  strength  £2 .  K 
has  the  dimensions  of  impedance.  Vo  is  the  voltage  specifying  the  electron 
velocity  Uq 

ul  =  2riVo .  (38) 


From  (36)-(38)  and  (35)  we  see 

_    2ff'C'r,   [-      jt.  ::_^ w^       -''  I  (3y) 


2ff'C'r,  r     iff      _  «Kr*  -  (iff  -  r))' 
(r'  -  rS)  L(iff  -  r)^      [(iff  -  r)^  +  ffSl 


TRAVELING-WAVE  TUBES  737 

We  now  make  the  approximation  that 

-r=-i/3  +  5.  (40) 

Where  |  5  |  <<C  |  jS  |  .    Neglecting  higher  order  terms, 

4.  Purely  Transverse  Field  Along  the  Path 
We  can  imagine  a  case  in  which  a  approaches  infinity  and  the  quantity 

(42) 


(43) 


(44) 

Here  J  is  a  parameter  describing  the  difference  in  speed  between  the  electrons 

and  the  unperturbed  wave  and  dis  a.  loss  parameter. 

Assuming  bD  «  1  and  dD  <^1,  and  letting  ^D{x  +  jy)  =  5,  (45) 

we  find 

(^2  _  y  +  /2)  (y-i-  b)  +  2xyix  +  d)  =  -1  (46) 

ix'  -  y2  +  /2)  {x  +  d)  -  2xy{y  +  b)  =  0  (47) 


. 

remains  finite. 

In  this  case  we  have 

r'-rS       2i/3'Z)' 

To            h^  +  ^V 

WewiUlet 

-Fo  =  -j^  -  j^Db  -  ^Dd, 

where 


f'  =  A-  (^«) 


If  would  be  difficult  to  work  with  all  of  the  parameters  by  f  and  d.  How- 
ever, it  scarcely  seems  that  the  attenuation  parameter  d  should  enter  into 
any  unusual  phenomena  due  to  the  presence  of  the  magnetic  field.  Accord- 
ingly, let  us  investigate  (46)  and  (47)  for  J  =  0.     We  then  obtain 

x\2,y  -\-b)-Y  (P  -f)iy+b)=-l  (46a) 

x[x'  +  (f-  f)  -  2y(y  +  b)]  =  0.  (47a) 
From  the  a;  =  0  solution  of  (47a)  we  obtain 

x==0  (49) 


738 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


If  is  found  that  this  solution  obtains  for  large  and  small  values  of  b.  For 
very  large  and  very  small  values  of  b,  either  y  =  —  ^  (51)  or  y  =  ±  /  (52) 
The  wave  given  by  (50)  is  a  circuit  wave;  that  given  by  (51)  represents  the 
travel  down  the  tube  of  electrons  oscillating  in  the  magnetic  field  with  cyclo- 
tron frequency. 


3.5 

^\ 

f2.0 

3.0 

2.5 

y  FOR     — ^^: 

UNDISTURBED  WAVE 

2.0 

N^v, 

N 

'•5 

1 

"\ 

S.^ 

Q      1.0 

^1 

— 

N 

--- 

■**< 

. 

^3 

UJ 

^^ 

6  ^-^ 

5            A 

N 

y,AKlDy2 

--■ 

— - 

-^, 

^\, 

/ 

O  -0.5 
^       ,0 

^2 

•-— ■ 

-. 



I 

^^ 

.^ 

' 

--- ^ 

Ui 

Z      1.0 

u. 

^\ 

* 

-1.5 

\ 
\ 

^<> 

s 

.1^ 

-3.0 

-3.5 

-4.0 

i 

Fig.  1 — Plot  of  parameters  giving  velocity  and  attenuation  of  the  three  forward  waves 
vs.  a  parameter  b  proportional  to  electron  speed  with  respect  to  the  undisturbed  wave. 
A  positive  value  of  x  means  an  increasing  wave;  a  positive  value  of  y  means  a  wave  travel- 
ing faster  than  the  electrons.     This  plot  is  iorp  =  0  (no  magnetic  field). 


In  an  intermediate  range  of  b,  we  have  from  (47a) 
x=  ±V2y(y  +  b)  -  iP  -  f) 


and 


b  =  -2y±  VP  -  l/2y. 


(53) 


(54) 


For  a  given  value  of  P  we  can  assume  values  of  y  and  obtain  values  of  b. 
Then,  x  can  be  obtained  from  (52)  or  (53).  In  Figs.  1-6,  x  and  y  are  plotted 
vs.  b  for/2  _  Q^  5^  1,  2,  4  and  10.  It  should  be  noted  that  xi  ,  the  parameter 
expressing  the  rate  of  increase  of  the  increasing  wave,  has  a  maximum  at 
larger  values  of  b  as/  is  increased  (as  the  magnetic  focusing  field  is  increased). 
Thus,  for  higher  magnetic  focusing  fields  the  electrons  must  be  shot  into  the 


TRA  VEI.IM;  \VA  VE  TUBES 


739 


1  n 

\, 

\ 

f2=0.5 

\ 

\ 

N, 

'', 

\ 

ya 

--. 

,_ 

OJ 

y^ 

><•) 

. — 

-^ 

~~~ 

. — 

— -" 





<     0  5 

Q 

"7        n 

^^ 

-i 

-^^ 

^ 

N 

— 

.-— 1 

..^ 

^■V 

:^-^ 

•-~^ 

> 

1- 

7      10 

yi 

X2 

■ — 

"■  ■  ^ 

-^ 

Wi 

_. 

. 

D 

LL 

'y^ 

'^^ 

/" 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

' 

ya 

\ 

-4.0 

-3-2-1  0  1  2 

b 
Fig.  2 — Propagation  parameters  ior p  =  0.5. 


3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
t.5 
Q      '-0 

OJ 

<     0.5 

y 

Q 

z       0 
O-0.5 

§-,.0 

D 
u. 
-1.5 

-2.0 

-2.5 

-3.0 

-3.5 

-4.0 
-5 


\ 

f2  =  1.0 

\ 

s 

^3 

*. 

>^ 

1 

""^ 



-- - 

— . 

— — 

_ 



---H 

___ 





— 

— . 

— 

>^1 

X, 

^N 

/ 

^ 

\ 

5^ 

^± 

/ 

.__ 

_—  -• 

"yT 

-^ 

^-' 

.^    1 

^^ 

^«<^ 

— .- 

^ 

"--. 

.y2 

z' 



■- — 

— -■ 



\ 

\ 

\ 

y2 

\ 
\ 

Fig.  3 — Propagation  parameters  iox  p  =1.0. 


740 


BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


J.D 

\^ 

V 

f^:3  2.0 

\^ 

.y 3(^=0) 

^ 

""n 

"^^ 

*-- 

— 





"-  — 



—  . 

~" 



^ysC^^o) 

^•« 

V 

X, 

s 

r 

"^ 

-n  ^ 

V. 

y 

_  <  rs 

k. 

X2 





"y7 

_.. 

— 

■^ 

r^ 

^"- 

^^l 

y,(x-o) 

^^^ 

--.  r"^ 

' ■ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

.^2 

\^ 

4.0 

\ 

Fig.  4 — Propagation  parameters  for /^  =2.0. 


3.0 
2.5 

-S.o 

1.5 

\.o 

0.5 
0 
-0.5 
-1.0 
-1.5 
-2.0 
-2.5 
-3.0 
-3.5 
-4.0 

\ 

K. 

f2  =  4.0 

K 

^"■o. 

->- 

-^3- 



... 

— —  . 



--^ 

^^2 

S. 

s 

\\ 

X, 

\ 

\ 

/ 

^ 

~~~ 

^ 

s 

s 

\ 

^, 

.y 

\ 

V 

X2 

\ 

\ 

yi 

* 

_ 

, .- 

J 

"'^^ 

.y2 

y< 

^-. 

^**^/ 

/^ 

■" 

1 

\ 

y2 

\ 
\ 

Fig.  5— Propagation  parameters  for/2  =4.0. 


TRAVELING-WAVE  TUBES 


741 


3.5 

"^ 

—  . 

Ws 

— . 

— 

— 







— 1 

.__ 

_^ 

3.0 
2.5 
2.0 

'.5 

OJ 

1^     0.5 
o 

i  ° 

i-0.5 
§-..0 
"^      15 

""^, 

. 

f  2  =  10.0 

^^ 

N 

.Wa 

\ 

\ 
\ 

^1 

N 
\ 
\ 

^ 

^ 

■^ 

^, 

\ 

^^ 

■n 

\, 

s 

-2.0 
-2.5 
-3.0 

^> 

\ 

\ 

'*^ 

^\ 





yi 

«-- 

^.  > 

— 

-3.5 
-4.0 

y^^ 

-3-2-10  1  2 

b 
Fig.  6 — Propagation  parameters  for/  =  10.0. 


0.8 
0.7 

0.6 
0.5 
0.4 

-^^ 

^sj 

\ 

Sw 

\ 

\ 

-^ 

^ 

-=^ 

0.3 

0.2 

0.1 

0 

0        0.2      0.4       0.6       0.8        t.O        1.2        1.4        1.6       1.8       2.0       2.2       2.4       2.6      2.8       3.0       3.2 
PROPORTIONAL    TO     MAGNETIC    FIELD,  f 

Fig.  7 — Parameter  x  giving  rate  of  increase  of  increasing  wave  vs.  /,  which  is  propor- 
tional to  magnetic  field  strength. 


circuit  faster  to  get  optimum  results  than  for  low  fields.  In  Fig.  7,  the  max- 
imum positive  value  of  x  is  plotted  vs.  /.  The  plot  serves  to  illustrate  the 
effect  on  gain  of  increasing  the  magnetic  field. 


742  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

Let  us  consider  an  example.     Suppose 

X  =  7.5  cm 

D  =  .03 

These  values  are  chosen  because  there  is  a  longitudinal  field  tube  which  oper- 
ates at  7.5  cm  with  a  value  of  C  (which  corresponds  to  D)  of  about  .03.  The 
table  below  shows  the  ratio  of  the  maximum  value  of  Xi  to  the  maximum 
value  of  xi  for  no  magnetic  field. 


Magnetic  Field  in  Gauss 

/ 

xi/xw 

0 

0 

1 

50 

1.17 

.71 

100 

2.34 

.50 

A  field  of  50  to  100  gauss  should  be  sufficient  to  give  useful  focusing  action. 
Thus,  it  may  be  desirable  to  use  magnetic  focusing  fields  in  deflection  travel- 
ing wave  tubes.  This  will  be  more  especially  true  in  low-voltage  tubes,  for 
which  D  may  be  expected  to  be  higher  than  .03. 

5.  Mixed  Fields 

In  tubes  designed  for  use  with  longitudinal  fields,  the  transverse  fields  far 
off  the  axis  approach  in  strength  the  longitudinal  fields.  The  same  is  true 
of  transverse  field  tubes  far  off  the  axis.  Thus,  it  is  of  interest  to  consider 
equation  (41)  for  cases  in  which  a  is  neither  very  small  nor  very  large,  but 
rather  is  of  the  order  of  unity. 

If  the  magnetic  field  is  very  intense  so  that  /5o  is  large,  then  the  term  con- 
taining a^,  which  represents  the  effect  of  transverse  fields,  will  be  very  small 
and  the  tube  will  behave  much  as  if  the  transverse  fields  were  absent. 

Consideration  of  both  terms  presents  considerable  difficulty  as  (41)  leads 
to  5  waves  (5  values  of  5)  instead  of  3.  The  writer  has  attacked  the  problem 
only  for  the  special  case  oi  b  =  d  =  0.     In  this  case  we  obtain  from  (41) 

^=-i^C^[^  +  ^].  (55) 

In  work  which  is  given  as  an  appendix,  Dr.  L.  A.  MacCoU  has  shown  that 
the  two  "new"  waves  (waves  introduced  wheno:  =  0)  are  unattenuated  and 
thus  unimportant  and  uninteresting  (unless,  as  an  off-chance,  they  have 
some  drastic  effect  in  fitting  the  boundary  conditions). 

Proceeding  from  this  information,  we  will  find  the  change  in  5  as  jSo  is  in- 
creased from  zero.     From  (51)  we  obtain 

,.  .^3^3  r     2d8  labdh  2ad^o    "1  ,-  >. 

d6  =  -j^  c  !_--  -  ^^.-^^^  -  (^r+^.J-         (56) 


TRAVELING-WAVE  TUBES  743 


Now,  if/3o  =  0 

3 

-'"^ -(.:<.)■ 

(57) 

Using  this  in  connection  with  (56)  for  /So  =  0  we  obtain 

..  =  -1^,32. 

(58) 

For  the  increasing  wave 

Si  =  /3(.866  -  j.S). 

(59) 

Hence,  for  this  wave 

rf«i  =  |(-.866+y.5)^. 

(60) 

This  shows  that  applying  a  small  magnetic  field  tends  to  decrease  the  gain. 
This  does  not  mean,  however,  that  the  gain  with  a  longitudinal  and  a  trans- 
verse field  and  a  magnetic  field  is  less  than  the  gain  with  the  longitudinal 
field  alone.  To  see  this,  we  can  assume  that  not  ^o  but  a^  is  small.  Differ- 
entiating (55)  we  obtain 


dd 
If  a  =  0 


3    3  r-2dd  2a^d8  da^      "1 

-ijS'C'  =  8'  (62) 

1     d^da^ 
^^  =  3(7T^)-  (^^) 

li^l  is  zero,  a  small  transverse  field  (small  increase  ina^)  increases  the  magni- 
tude of  5  without  changing  the  phase  angle.     If  /So  ^  |  5  |  ,  then 

d&  =  ZJ^  da'  (64) 

Po 

and  the  change  in  5  is  purely  imaginary.  For  the  increasing  wave,  the  change 
in  6  as  a  transverse  field  is  added  will  range  from  an  increase  in  the  real  part 
for  small  magnetic  fields  to  no  change  in  the  real  part  for  large  magnetic 
fields. 

APPENDIX 

Study  of  The  Algebraic  Equation 

'  =  -^^'^'\}^  +  WTJ^  <»-^) 

5^5^  +  /3o)  +  j^'C'id'  -{-  ^1  +  a'52)  =  0 


744  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ay+a)"+4.)*<^''+«''ay-'©'''-»  <-' 


Write 


5 
^^  C  =  a  (3A) 


Then 

z^+  z^+  j(a  +  b)z^  +  ja  =  0  (4A) 

a  is  assumed  to  be  positive,  and  b  is  assumed  to  be  real  and  non-negative. 
For  b  =  0  we  have 

(2«  +  ja)  (z2  +  1)  =  0  (5A) 

^    ^J'^     .-^1/3     2Ty/3      .    1/3     4jri/3  /^*n 

z  = ;,  -J,J(^    yJ(^     e      ,ja     e  (6A) 


We  have 


15/  +  3'z  +  2j(a  +  b)z]  ^^   +  j^  =  0 

do 

dz  ^jz 


(7A) 


db       5z'  +  322  _^  2j{a  +  ^>)z 

From  this  we  draw  the  following  conclusion.  Suppose  that  for  a  certain 
value  of  b  the  five  roots  are  distinct,  and  that  among  them  there  is  a  purely 
imaginary  root.  Then  as  b  varies,  in  the  neighborhood  of  its  initial  value, 
that  root  remains  purely  imaginary. 

In  particular,  consider  b  as  increasing  from  the  initial  value  0.  As  long 
as  the  five  roots  remain  distinct,  there  are  exactly  three  purely  imaginary 
roots. 

In  order  to  have  a  real  root  z  =  x,we  would  have  to  have  simultaneously 

x^  +  x^  =  0 
(fl+6)r^+a  =  0  (8A) 

This  is  impossible  (with  a  >  0).     Hence  there  is  never  a  real  root. 

In  particular,  as  b  increases  from  0,  no  root  can  cross  the  real  axis.  Hence, 
as  b  increases  from  0,  as  long  as  the  roots  remain  distinct,  there  are  two 
purely  imaginary  roots  above  the  real  axis,  one  purely  imaginary  root  below 
the  real  axis,  and  two  complex  roots  below  the  real  axis. 


TRAVELING-WAVE  TUBES  745 

Since  there  is  no  term  in  z^  in  the  equation,  the  sum  of  all  the  roots  is  0. 
Hence  the  two  complex  roots  must  be  located  symmetrically  with  respect  to 
the  imaginary  axis. 

First  order  variations  of  the  roots  with  b  can  be  calculated  at  once  by 
means  of  the  equation 

^  =  -J'' (9A) 

db        5z*  +  322  +  2jia  -\-  b)z  ^      ^ 

In  principle,  higher-order  variations  can  be  calculated  by  carrying  the 
differentiation  to  higher  orders.     However,  the  formulae  get  wonderfully 
complicated. 
A  very  practical  way  of  solving  the  equation  is  the  following: 
The  three  imaginary  roots  can  be  found  by  plotting  a  curve.     If  we  let 
z  =  jy,  (4A)  becomes 

y'  -  y^-\-  {a+  b)f  -  a  =  0  (lOA) 

For  the  imaginary  roots  y  is  real  and  we  have  merely  to  plot  the  left-hand 
side  of  (lOA)  vs.  y  to  find  the  roots.  Denote  them  by  Zi ,  Z2 ,  Zs ,  which  are 
now  regarded  as  known  numbers.     These  roots  satisfy  the  equation 

(Z  —  Zl)(2  —  Z2)(Z  —  Z3)  =  Z^  —  (Zl  +  Z2  +  Z3)z2  -f  (Z1Z2  H-  ZiZs  +  32Z3)Z 

—  Z1Z2ZZ  =  z^  +  aiZ^  +  azZ  +  as  =  0  (HA) 

The  two  complex  roots  satisfy  some  equation 

z2  +  0iz  +  ^2  =  0  (12A) 

The  jS's  are  at  present  unknown.     When  we  find  them  we  can  at  once  calcu- 
late the  complex  roots.     We  must  have 

(z'  +  aiz'  -{-  a.2Z  +  as)  {f  +  /3iZ  +  ^2)  ^  z'' ^  z^  ^  j(a  +  b)z^  +  ja       (13A) 

Comparing  the  coefficients  of  z^  and  z  ,  we  get  the  equations 

ai  +  iSi  =  0 

a3/32  =  ja  (14A) 

which  give  us  the  /S's. 

Suppose  that  the  magnetic  field  is  very  small,  so  that  /So  <3C  /S.  Then 
unless  a  is  very  small,  both  a  and  h  in  (lOA)  will  be  very  large  numbers,  and 
we  find  that  two  of  the  imaginary  roots  are  given  approximately  by 


746  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

As  /3o  — ^  0  the  other  three  roots  are  given  by 

z  =  [-j{a  +  b)]'"  (16A) 

These  three  roots  correspond  to  the  waves  found  for  traveUng-wave  tubes 
with  a  purely  longitudinal  field.  The  roots  according  to  (15 A)  represent 
such  a  combination  of  deflection  and  bunching  as  to  produce  no  induced 
current  in  the  circuit.  The  roots  of  (15 A)  are  "extra"  roots  attributable  to 
the  consideration  of  transverse  fields  and  transverse  electron  motion. 

For  the  roots  given  by  (15A),  5/j8  — >  0  as  jSo  -^0.  Thus  in  this  case  it  is 
convenient  to  form  the  solution  of  two  parts,  one  varying  as 


and  the  other  varying  as 


-^''  cos  (-^-^\  z 
\a  +  hJ 


As  jSo  -^  0,  the  first  of  these  approaches  the  form 

ze 
and  the  second  approache3  the  form 


,r" 


Again,  these  "extra"  waves  produce  no  induced  current  in  the  circuit. 
Two  additional  pieces  of  information: 
As  a  —» 0,  6  a  remaining  fixed,  the  roots  approach  the  limiting  values 

0,0,0,7, -y. 

As  a  — ^  00 ,  ^(Z  remaining  fixed,  two  of  the  roots  approach  the  limiting  values 


'V^^' 


the  other  roots  behave  as 

•( ^    _L    A\l''3      '( ^      I       7  \l/3     2)ry/3      •/  ■       7  \l/3     4iri/3 

;(a  +  0)     ,;(a  +  6)     e       ,  j{a -\-  b)     e 

Much  of  the  preceding  discussion  depends  upon  the  roots  remaining  distinct. 
The  condition  that  two  or  more  of  the  roots  coincide,  which  is  a  relation 
between  a  and  b,  can  be  written  out,  but  it  has  not  as  yet  been  reduced  to  a 
compact  and  intelligible  form. 


Abstracts  of  Technical  Articles  by  Bell  System  Authors 

Pulse  Code  Modulation}  H.  S.  Black  and  J.  O.  Edson.  A  radically 
new  modulation  technique  for  multichannel  telephony  has  been  developed 
which  involves  the  conversion  of  speech  waves  into  coded  pulses.  An 
8-channel  system  embodying  these  principles  was  produced.  The  method 
appears  to  have  exceptional  possibilities  from  the  standpoint  of  freedom 
from  interference,  but  its  full  significance  in  connection  with  future  radio 
and  wire  transmission  may  take  some  time  to  reveal. 

Modulation  in  Communication r  F.  A.  Cowan.  Any  signaling  system 
requires  some  means  for  introducing  a  change  in  conditions  at  the  sending 
end  which  may  be  recognized  at  the  receiving  end.  The  process  by  which 
the  conditions  are  changed  has  come  to  be  called  modulation.  There  are 
many  varieties  of  forms  of  change  as  well  as  a  large  number  of  conditions 
which  are  subject  to  change  in  response  to  the  signals  to  be  transmitted. 

In  early  systems  for  communication  at  a  distance  the  signal  information 
might  have  been  impressed  upon  a  rising  column  of  smoke,  a  light,  a  stone 
tablet,  or  a  sheet  of  parchment.  For  modern  communication  wide  use  is 
made  of  systems  in  which  the  signals  change  the  magnitude  or  condition 
of  electric  energy. 

Starting  with  the  electric  telegraph  a  little  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago 
this  medium  of  communication  has  grown  steadily  more  important  and  more 
complex.  To  meet  a  variety  of  needs  many  systems  of  modulation  have 
been  developed  and  papers  describing  them  in  detail  are  available  in  the 
technical  literature.  Various  aspects  of  the  modulation  processes  have 
been  analyzed  carefully  and  presented  and  some  of  the  earlier  conceptions 
have  acquired  a  classical  textbook  status.  Recent  trends  have  placed 
emphasis  on  modulation  systems  which  more  readily  may  be  understood 
when  viewed  in  a  somewhat  different  manner.  It  is  the  purpose  of  this 
paper  to  present  certain  conceptions  which  may  facilitate  the  understanding 
of  the  various  systems  of  modulation  and  permit  an  improved  perspective. 

Frequency  Division  Techniques  for  a  Coaxial  Cable  Network.^  R.  E. 
Crane,  J.  T.  Dixon  and  G.  H.  Huber.  A  description  is  given  of  develop- 
ments employing  frequency  division  techniques  by  which  the  telephone- 
message-carrying  potentialities  of  the  coaxial  cable  system  are  realized. 
By  these  methods  480  high  quality  telephone  messages  are  prepared  for 

1  Trans.  A.  I.E.  £,vol.  66,  1947  (pp.  895-899). 

2  Trans.  A.  I.  E.  £.,  vol.  66,  1947  (pp.  792-796). 

3  Trans.  A.  I.  E.  E.,  vol.  66,  1947  (pp.  1451-1459). 

747 


748  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

transmission  over  the  line  and  restored  to  original  condition  at  main  terminal 
points.  At  intermediate  points  appropriate  groups  of  channels  may  be 
removed,  inserted,  bridged,  or  relocated  in  the  frequency  spectrum  of  the 
line. 

Experimental  Studies  of  a  Remodulating  Repealer}  W.  M.  Goodall. 
This  paper  describes  tests  made  on  an  experimental  broad-band  microwave 
f.m.  repeater.  A  superheterodyne  receiving  unit  is  used  with  a  microwave 
reflex-oscillator  transmitting  unit  to  form  a  repeater.  An  experimental 
setup  for  testing  this  repeater  in  a  circulating-pulse  system  is  described. 
Oscillograms  showing  the  performance  of  the  repeater  on  a  multilink  basis 
are  discussed. 

An  Electronic  Regenerative  Repeater  for  Teletypewriter  Signals. ^  R.  B. 
Hearn.  The  important  factor  in  teletypewriter  signal  transmission  over 
circuits  is  the  relative  position  on  a  time  scale  of  the  code  pulses.  If  this 
timing  is  preserved,  wide  amplitude  variations  can  be  experienced  without 
errors  resulting.  Correctly  timed  signal  pulses  at  the  transmitting  end 
of  a  circuit  are  not  necessarily  properly  timed  at  the  receiving  end,  as  the 
transmission  path  may  shift  the  timing  of  some  transitions  with  respect  to 
others.  However,  if  the  signals  are  not  too  badly  changed  or  distorted,  it  is 
possible  to  retime  them  at  an  intermediate  point  and  send  them  on  in  their 
original  form. 

Many  arrangements  have  been  devised  for  automatically  retiming  and 
retransmitting  teletypewriter  signals.  These  arrangements  are  known  as 
regenerative  repeaters.  A  few  of  these  have  been  designed  to  make  use  of 
electronic  timing  arrangements  and  the  purpose  of  this  paper  is  to  describe 
such  an  electronic  regenerative  repeater,  known  as  repeater  TG-2P,  designed 
originally  for  use  by  the  Armed  Forces. 

Submarine  Detection  by  Sonar. ^  A.  C.  Keller.  Sonar,  the  only  effective 
method  of  detecting  completely  submerged  submarines  was  a  major  factor 
in  the  defeat  of  the  f/-boat  and  the  winning  of  the  Battle  of  the  Atlantic. 
A  majority  of  the  996  enemy  submarines  sunk  during  World  War  II  was 
detected  and  located  by  sonar.  The  word  sonar  is  formed  from  the  phrase 
SOund  Navigation  And  Ranging  and  apphes  broadly  to  under  water  sound 
devices  for  listening,  echo  ranging,  and  locating  obstacles. 

The  QJA  sonar  system,  one  of  those  which  got  into  active  service  during 
World  War  II,  is  described  here.  This  equipment  was  designed  by  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  and  manufactured  by  the  Western  Electric  Com- 
pany. 

*  Proc.  L  R.  E.,  May  1948  (pp.  580-583). 

6  Trans.  A.  L  E.  E.,  vol.  66,  1947  (pp.  904-911). 

•  Trans.  A.  L  E.  E.,  vol.  66,  1947  (pp.  1217-1230). 


ABSTRACTS  749 

Measurement  of  High  Q  Cavities  at  10,000  Megacycles^  R.  VV.  Lange, 
Known  methods  of  measuring  Q  in  high  Q  resonant  cavities,  together  with 
their  accuracies  and  sources  of  error,  are  discussed.  For  relatively  low 
values  of  Q  and  of  frequency,  it  is  shown  that  band  width  methods  are  more 
accurate  than  decrement  methods.  For  values  of  Q  above  30,000  at  fre- 
quencies above  3,000  megacycles  the  reverse  is  true.  The  significant  feature 
of  the  present  method,  the  wide  range  heterodyne  decrement  method,  is  that 
the  accuracy  is  improved  by  observing  the  decay  over  a  relatively  long 
interval  of  time.  An  absolute  accuracy  of  plus  or  minus  three  per  cent  and 
a  relative  accuracy  of  plus  or  minus  two  per  cent  are  achieved.  Design 
features  and  performance  are  discussed  and  constructional  details  are 
presented. 

Absorbing  Media  for  Underwater  Sound  Measuring  Tanks  and  Baffles.^ 
W.  P.  Mason  and  F.  H.  Hibbard.  By  using  absorbing  walls  surrounding 
a  small  body  of  water,  measuring  tanks  have  been  produced  which  will  de- 
termine the  directional  properties  of  underwater  sound  instruments  down 
to  a  level  of  25  db  below  the  direct  beam.  These  absorbing  media  are  con- 
structed by  inserting  fine  mesh  screen  or  packed  copper  wadding  in  a  viscous 
liquid  such  as  castor  oil.  These  obstructions  result  in  an  enhanced  viscous 
action  which  is  nearly  independent  of  the  frequency  above  10  kilocycles.  A 
six-inch  wall  can  reduce  the  reflections  by  20  db.  Tanks  using  such  ab- 
sorbing media  were  used  for  testing  transducers  at  the  manufacturing  plant 
and  were  used  for  determining  the  approximate  characteristics  of  small  sized 
instruments.  Absorbing  media  were  also  used  in  the  sound  transparent 
dome  housing  the  transducer  and  in  the  back  of  the  QJB  transducers. 

Calculation  of  the  Directivity  Index  for  Various  Types  of  Radiators.^  C. 
T.  MoLLOY.  This  paper  gives  the  derivations  of  the  "directivity  index" 
formulas  for  several  t3^es  of  sound  radiators.  The  "directivity  index"  is 
defined  as  "the  ratio  of  the  total  acoustic  power  output  of  the  radiator  to 
the  acoustic  power  output  of  a  point  source  producing  the  same  pressure  at 
the  same  point  on  the  axis."  The  utility  of  the  directivity  index  concept  is 
that  it  permits  power  calculations  to  be  made  for  all  radiators  in  the  same 
manner  as  for  point  sources.  Directivity  index  formulas,  together  with 
graphs  covering  practical  cases,  are  given  for  the  following  types  of  radiators: 

1.  General  plane  piston  in  infinite  baffle, 

2.  Circular  plane  piston  in  infinite  baffle, 

3.  Rectangular  plane  piston  in  infinite  baffle, 

4.  Sectoral  horn, 

'  Trans.  A.  I.  E.  E.,  vol.  66,  1947  (pp.  161-166). 
^  Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  America,  July  1948  (pp.476-483). 
^Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  America,  July  1948  (pp.  387-405). 


750  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

5.  Multicellular  horn, 

6.  Piston  set  in  sphere. 

A  Magnetic  Field  Strength  Meter  Employing  the  Hall  Effect  in  Germanium. ^^ 
G.  L.  Pearson.  The  instrument  to  be  described  measures  magnetic  field 
strengths  as  determined  from  the  Hall  effect  in  germanium.  The  essential 
parts  of  this  instrument  include  a  small  germanium  probe,  and  a  panel  type 
microammeter  calibrated  directly  in  gauss.  Its  accuracy  is  ±2  percent  at 
fields  between  100  and  8000  gauss.  At  higher  fields  the  readings  are  too 
low,  the  error  amounting  to  9  percent  at  20,000  gauss.  The  chief  advantages 
of  this  instrument  are:  (a)  small  size  and  portability,  (b)  continuous  reading 
rather  than  ballistic  as  in  ordinary  field  strength  meters,  and  (c)  a  small 
nonmagnetic  probe  with  which  one  can  search  in  very  narrow  gaps. 

The  Representation  of  Vowels  and  their  Movements}^  Ralph  K.  Potter 
and  Gordon  E.  Peterson.  It  is  shown  that  movement  of  the  major 
resonances  in  the  voiced  sounds  of  speech  may  be  represented  by  traces  in 
a  three-dimensional  graph.  Apparently  a  great  deal  can  be  learned  about 
speech  through  investigation  of  such  traces,  and  they  suggest  a  new  method 
for  vowel  designation  that  is  particularly  adaptable  to  quantitative  analysis. 

General  Mobile  Telephone  System}^  H.  I.  Romnes  and  R.  R.  O'Connor. 
The  tremendous  need  for  communication  with  ships,  airplanes,  trucks,  tanks, 
and  other  mobile  units  used  in  such  large  quantities  during  the  war  accel- 
erated the  development  of  practical  mobile  radiotelephone  equipment  for 
use  in  the  30  to  200  megacycle  range  and  emphasized  the  practicability  and 
usefulness  of  mobile  telephone  service.  By  the  end  of  the  war  the  art  had 
advanced  sufficiently  in  the  applications  of  these  higher  frequencies  so  that 
it  seemed  practicable  to  provide  telephone  service  to  mobile  units  on  a  gen- 
eral basis  rather  than  limit  it  to  safety  and  emergency  services  as  had  been 
the  case  before  the  war.  The  Federal  Communications  Commission  there- 
fore made  available  a  few  frequencies  for  experiments  in  this  field.  In  the 
two  years  which  have  elapsed,  the  Bell  System  has  made  this  service  avail- 
able on  an  experimental  basis  in  more  than  60  cities  and  about  100  more 
systems  are  under  construction.  This  paper  describes  the  arrangements 
used  and  outlines  the  experience  obtained  to  date  with  this  service.  Im- 
provements are  being  made  constantly  so  that  this  must  be  regarded  as  an 
interim  report  on  a  rapidly  changing  and  expanding  service. 

Interference  between  V ery-High-Frequency  Radio  Communication  Circuits}^ 
W.  Rae  Young,  Jr.  Interference  between  different  radio  circuits  is  an  old 
problem,  one  which  in  the  past  generally  has  been  solved  by  trial  and  error 

1"  Rev.  Sci.  Instruments,  April  1948  (pp.  263-265) 

^^  Jour.  Acous.  Soc.  America,  July  1948  (pp.  528-535). 

«  Trans.  A.  I.E.  £.,  vol.  66,  1947  (1658-1666). 

"  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  Waves  and  Electrons  Section,  July  1948  (pp.  923-930). 


ABSTRACTS  751 

and  by  hand  tailoring  (special  filters,  etc.).  With  the  general  increase  in 
the  usage  of  radio  communication,  however,  the  amount  of  potential  inter- 
ference is  greatly  increased.  This  paper  will  be  concerned  principally  with 
the  v.h.f.  problem. 

There  is  generally  a  large  difference  between  transmitting  and  receiving 
power  levels.  As  a  result,  spurious  radiations,  spurious  responses,  and  lack 
of  sufficient  receiver  selectivity  may  in  many  instances  cause  interference. 
Situations  are  described  in  which  such  interferences  are  likely. 

In  mobile  systems  interference  can  occur  if  the  interfering  station  is  close 
enough  to  ''capture"  it  from  the  desired  signal.  This,  in  turn,  depends  upon 
the  selectivity  and  spurious  response  of  the  receiver  and  the  amount  of 
spurious  radiation  from  the  transmitter.  The  problem  can  be  approached 
in  a  statistical  manner. 

The  types  of  spurious  radio  behavior  which  are  common  causes  of  inter- 
ference are  discussed.  Sample  measurements  are  given  to  illustrate  the 
relative  magnitude  of  the  various  modes  of  behavior.  Formulas  are  given 
which  permit  computation  of  the  frequency  of  the  disturbances.  A  method 
is  described  for  making  charts  suitable  for  a  given  type  of  equipment  from 
which  the  spurious  frequencies  can  be  read  directly  as  a  function  of  the 
operating  frequency. 


Contributors  to  this  Issue 

J.  T.  MuLLER,  Technical  College,  Amsterdam,  Holland,  1923;  M.S., 
Stevens  Institute  of  Technology,  1943.  Mr.  MuUer  came  originally  to  the 
United  States  to  continue  his  studies  in  1923,  became  interested  in  the  design 
and  development  of  high-speed  automatic  equipment  for  a  number  of  com- 
panies and  joined  Western  Electric  in  1941  and  the  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories in  1943.  He  has  been  primarily  concerned  with  the  protection  of 
radar  equipment  against  shock  and  vibration  and  the  development  of  new 
types  of  shock  mounts.  His  interest  is  in  the  field  of  experimental  and 
mathematical  dynamics. 

William  W.  Mumford,  B.A.,  Willamette  University,  1930.  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  1930-.  Mr.  Mumford  has  been  engaged  in  work  that 
is  chiefly  concerned  with  ultra-short-wave  and  microwave  radio  commu- 
nication. 

Liss  C.  Peterson,  Chahners  Technical  University,  Gothenburg,  1921 ; 
Technical  Universities  of  Charlottenburg  and  Dresden,  1921-23.  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  1925-30;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1930-.  Mr.  Peterson  has  recently  been  concerned  with  the  theory  of 
hearing. 

J.  R.  Pierce,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  California  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology, 1933 ;  Ph.D.,  1936.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1936-.  Engaged 
in  study  of  vacuum  tubes. 

Claude  E.  Shannon,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  University  of  Mich- 
igan, 1936;  S.M.  in  Electrical  Engineering  and  Ph.D.  in  Mathematics, 
M.  I.  T.,  1940.  National  Research  Fellow,  1940.  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, 1941-.  Dr.  Shannon  has  been  engaged  in  mathematical  research 
principally  in  the  use  of  Boolean  Algebra  in  switching,  the  theory  of  com- 
munication, and  cryptography. 

M.  K.  ZiNN,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  Purdue  University,  1918; 
U.  S.  Army  Signal  Corps  and  Air  Service,  1918-19.  American  Telephone 
and  Telegraph  Company,  Department  of  Development  and  Research,  1919- 
34;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1934r-.  Mr.  Zinn's  work  has  been  con- 
cerned mainly  with  transmission  engineering  problems. 

752 


X 


