? 


; 


■I 


1  > 

11 


■ 


reference 
collection 
book 


KC 


Kansas  city 
public  library 
kansas  city, 
missouri 


iP^ 


^U' 


Ns^ 


Sii/ 


From  the  collection  of  the 


n 


R 


m 


o  Jrre  linger 

V     *  library 

p 


San  Francisco,  California 
2008 


f  •  «  fl 


•     •  •  •      • 
«   •        ■   • 


HE      BEL   Li:iii8L^^S:'^T-,,E\M 

p.',    j'i'— '  , 


meat  journal 

l^^r/      A  IN 


^OTED    TO    THE    SCIENTIFIC  ^^r>^     AND    ENGINEERING 
»ECTS    OF    ELECTRICAL    COMMUNICATION 


U  M  E  XXXV  JANUARY    1956  tf  k  k---  • '  t.  N  U  M  B  E  R-lv 

DiflPused  Emitter  and  Base  Silicon  Transistors  J  ^'  ^   '^  ^  ^^^° 

M.  TANENBAUM  AND  D.  E.  THOMAS         1 

A  High-Frequency  Diffused  Base  Germanium  Transistor    c.  a.  lee    23 

Waveguide  Investigations  with  Millimicrosecond  Pulses 

a.  c.  beck    35 

Experiments  on  the  Regeneration  of  Binary  Microwave  Pulses 

o.  B.  delange    67 

Crossbar  Tandem  as  a  Long  Distance  Switching  System 

a.  O.  ADAM      91 

Growing  Waves  Due  to  Transverse  Velocities 

J.  R.  pierce  and  l.  r.  walker  109 

Coupled  Helices  j.  s.  cook,  r.  kompfner  and  c.  f.  quatb  127 

Statistical  Techniques  for  Reducing  the  Experiment  Time  in  Re- 
liability Studies  MILTON  sobel  179 

A  Class  of  Binary  Signaling  Alphabets  david  slepian  203 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal  235 

Recent  Bell  System  Monographs  242 

Contributors  to  This  Issue  244 


COPYRIGHT  1956  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 


;  ,  *  -^  -^  f  -  -.r »  '  J "  -'  • 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ADVISORY    BOARD 

F.  E.  K  A  P  P  E  L,  President,  Western  Electric  Company 

M.  J.  KELLY,  President,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 

E.  J.  McNEELY,  Executive  Vice  President,  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

EDITORIAL    COMMITTEE 

B.  MCMILLAN,  Chairman  H.  R.  HUNTLEY 

A.  J.  BUSCH  F.   R.   LACK 

A.   C.  DICKIESON  J.   R.   PIERCE 

R.   L.  DIETZOLD  H.   V.   SCHMIDT 

K.  E.   GOULD  C.  E.  SCHOOLEY 

E.  L   GREEN  G.  N.  THAYER 


EDITORIAL    STAFF 

J.  D.  TEBO,  Editor 

M.  E.  s  T  R  I  E  B  Y,  Managing  Editor 

R.  L.  SHEPHERD,  Production  Editor 


THE"  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  is  pubUshed  six  times 
a  year  by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  195  Broadway, 
New  York  7,  N.  Y.  Cleo  F.  Craig,  President;  S.  Whitney  Landon,  Secretary; 
John  J.  Scanlon,  Treasurer.  Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $3.00  per  year. 
Single  copies  are  75  cents  each.  The  foreign  postage  is  65  cents  per  year  or  11 
cents  per  copy.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 


THE    BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XXXV  JANUARY   1956  number  1 

Copyright  1956,  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

Diffused  Emitter  and  Base  Silicon 

Transistors* 

By  M.  TANENBAUM  and  D.  E.  THOMAS 

(Manuscript  received  October  21,  1955) 

Silicon  n-p-n  transistors  have  been  made  in  which  the  base  and  emitter 
regions  were  produced  by  diffusing  impurities  from  the  vapor  phase.  Tran- 
sistors with  base  layers  3.8  X  10~  -cm  thick  have  been  made.  The  diffusion 
techniques  and  the  processes  for  making  electrical  contact  to  the  structures 
are  described. 

The  electrical  characteristics  of  a  transistor  with  a  maximum  alpha  of 
0.97  and  an  alpha-cutoff  of  120  mc/sec  are  presented.  The  manner  in  which 
some  of  the  electrical  parameters  are  determined  by  the  distribution  of  the 
doping  impurities  is  discussed.  Design  data  for  the  diffused  emitter,  dif- 
fused base  structure  is  calcidated  and  compared  with  the  rneasured  char- 
acteristics. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  necessity  of  thin  base  layers  for  high-frequency  operation  of  tran- 
sistors has  long  been  apparent.  One  of  the  most  appealing  techniques  for 
controlling  the  distribution  of  impurities  in  a  semiconductor  is  the  dif- 
fusion of  the  impurity  into  the  solid  semiconductor.  The  diffusion  co- 
efficients of  Group  III  acceptors  and  Group  V  donors  into  germanium 
and  silicon  are  sufficiently  low  at  judiciously  selected  temperatures  so 

*  A  portion  of  the  material  of  this  paper  was  presented  at  the  Semiconductor 
Device  Conference  of  the  Institute  of  Radio  Engineers,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  June, 
1955. 


2       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY  1956 

that  it  is  possible  to  envision  transistors  with  base  layer  thicknesses  of  a 
micron  and  frequency  response  of  several  thousand  megacycles  per 
second. 

A  major  deterent  to  the  application  of  diffusion  to  silicon  transistor 
fabrication  in  the  past  was  the  drastic  decrease  in  lifetime  which  generally 
occurs  when  silicon  is  heated  to  the  high  temperatures  required  for  dif- 
fusion. There  was  also  insufficient  knowledge  of  the  diffusion  parameters 
to  permit  the  preparation  of  structures  with  controlled  layer  thicknesses 
and  desired  dopings.  Recently  the  investigations  of  C.  S.  Fuller  and  co- 
workers have  produced  detailed  information  concerning  the  diffusion  of 
Group  III  and  Group  V  elements  in  silicon.  This  information  has  made 
possible  the  controlled  fabrication  of  transistors  with  base  layers  suffi- 
ciently thin  that  high  alphas  are  obtained  even  though  the  lifetime  has 
been  reduced  to  a  fraction  of  a  microsecond.  In  a  cooperative  program 
with  Fuller,  diffusion  structures  were  produced  which  have  permitted 
the  fabrication  of  transistors  whose  electrical  behavior  closely  approxi- 
mates the  behavior  anticipated  from  the  design.  This  paper  describes 
these  techniques  which  have  resulted  in  high  alpha  silicon  transistors 
with  alpha-cutoff  of  over  100  mc/sec. 

1.0    FABRICATION    OF   THE   TRANSISTORS 

Fuller's  work  has  shown  that  in  silicon  the  diffusion  coefficient  of  a 
Group  III  acceptor  is  usually  10  to  100  times  larger  than  that  of  the 
Group  V  donor  in  the  same  row  in  the  periodic  table  at  the  same  tem- 
peratures. These  experiments  were  performed  in  evacuated  silica  tubes 
using  the  Group  III  and  Group  V  elements  as  the  source  of  diffusant. 
Under  these  conditions  a  particular  steady  state  surface  concentration 
of  the  diffusant  is  produced  and  the  depth  of  diffusion  is  sensitive  to 
this  concentration  as  well  as  to  the  diffusion  coefficient.  The  experiments 
show  that  the  effective  steady  state  surface  concentration  of  the  donor 
impurities  produced  under  these  conditions  is  ten  to  one  hundred  times 
greater  than  that  of  the  acceptor  impurities.  Thus,  by  the  simultaneous 
diffusion  of  selected  donor  and  acceptor  impurities  into  n-type  silicon 
an  n-p-n  structure  will  result.  The  first  n-la,yer  forms  because  the  surface 
concentration  of  the  donor  is  greater  than  that  of  the  acceptor.  The 
p-laycr  is  protluced  because  the  acceptor  diffuses  faster  than  the  donor 
and  gets  ahead  of  it.  The  final  n-region  is  simply  the  original  background 
doping  of  the  n-type  silicon  sample.  It  has  been  possible  to  produce  n-p-n 
structures  by  the  simultaneous  diffusion  of  several  combinations  of 
donors  and  acceptors.  Often,  however,  the  diffusion  coefficients  and 
surface  concentrations  of  the  donors  and  acceptors  are  such  that  opti- 

1  C.  S.  Fuller,  private  communication. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE   SILICON   TRANSISTORS  3 

mum  layer  thicknesses  (see  Sections  3  and  4)  are  not  produced  by  simul- 
taneous diffusion.  In  this  case,  one  of  the  impurities  is  started  ahead  of 
the  other  in  a  prior  diffusion,  and  then  the  other  impurity  is  diffused 
in  a  second  operation. 

With  the  proper  choice  of  diffusion  temperatures  and  times  it  has  been 
possible  to  make  n-p-n  structures  with  base  layer  thicknesses  of  2  X  10~* 
cm.  The  uniformity  of  the  layers  in  a  given  specimen  is  better  than  ten 
per  cent  of  the  layer  thickness.  Fig.  1  illustrates  the  uniformity  of  the 
layers.  This  figure  is  an  enlarged  photograph  of  a  view  perpendicular 
to  the  surface  of  the  specimen.  A  bevel  which  makes  an  angle  of  five 
degrees  with  the  original  surface  has  been  polished  on  the  specimen.  This 
angle  magnifies  the  layer  thickness  by  11.5.  The  layer  is  defined  by  an 
etchant  which  preferentially  stains  p-type  silicon^  and  the  width  of  the 
layer  is  measured  with  a  calibrated  microscope. 

After  diffusion  the  entire  surface  of  the  silicon  wafer  is  covered  with 
the  diffused  n-  and  p-type  layers,  see  Fig.  2(a).  Electrical  contact  must 
now  be  made  to  the  three  regions  of  the  device.  The  base  contact  can 
be  made  by  polishing  a  bevel  on  the  specimen  to  expose  and  magnify 
the  base  layer  and  then  alloying  a  lead  to  this  region  by  the  same  tech- 


f.^  *f^'-  *; 


'>i 


i      *  /i 


n-TfPE  DIFFUSED  LAV^ER 
fo-t^^E*OiFFUSED    LAYER 


i»# 


OF^GIt^L  n-TYPE 
CRYSTAl. 


I 1  EQUIVALENT   TO  2  X  lO"'*  CM 

LAYER  THICKNESS 

Fig-  1  —  Angle  section  of  a  double  diffused  silicon  wafer.  The  p-type  center 
ayer  is  approximately  2  X  10-<  cm  thick. 


4  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

niques  employed  in  the  fabrication  of  grown  junction  transistors.  Fig. 
2(b).  However,  a  much  simpler  technique  has  been  evolved.  If  the  sur- 
face concentration  of  the  donor  diffusant  is  maintained  below  a  certain 
critical  value,  it  is  possible  to  alloy  an  aluminum  wire  directly  through 
the  diffused  n-type  layer  and  thus  make  effective  contact  to  the  base 
layer,  Fig.  2(c).  Since  the  resistivity  of  the  original  silicon  wafer  is  one 
to  five  ohm-cm,  the  aluminum  will  be  rectifying  to  this  region.  It  has 
been  experimentally  shown  that  if  the  surface  concentration  of  the 
donor  diffusant  is  less  than  the  critical  value  mentioned  above,  the 
aluminum  will  also  be  rectifying  to  the  diffused  n-type  region  and  the 
contact  becomes  merely  an  extension  of  the  base  layer.  The  n-layers 
produced  by  diffusing  from  elemental  antimony  are  below  the  critical 
concentration  and  the  direct  aluminum  alloying  technique  is  feasible. 


-n  +  TYPE  DIFFUSED  LAYER 


-p-TYPE  DIFFUSED  LAYER 


n  + 


n+ 


-ALUMINUM  WIRE 

p  + ALUMINUM  DOPED 
REGROWTH  LAYER 


n-TYPE 


(b) 


,^- ALUMINUM  WIRE 

P  +  ALUMINUM   DOPED 
, REGROWTH  LAYER 


^M'nY  ^-i-r 


n-TYPE 


(c) 


Fig.  2  — ■  Schematic  illustralioii  of  (a)  double  diffused  n-p-n  wafer,  (b)  angle 
section  method  of  making  base  contact,  and  (c)  direct  alloying  method  of  making 
base  contact. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 


AU-Sb  PLATED 
POINT 


VAPORIZED  Al 

LINE 
0.005  CM    WIDE 


t  MM 


Fig.  3  —  Mounted  double  diffused  transistor. 

Contact  to  the  emitter  layer  is  achieved  by  alloying  a  film  of  gold 
containing  a  small  amount  of  antimony.  Since  this  alloy  will  produce 
an  n-type  regrowth  layer,  it  is  only  necessary  to  insure  that  the  gold- 
antimony  film  does  not  alloy  through  the  p-type  base  layer,  thus  shorting 
the  emitter  to  the  collector.  This  is  controlled  by  limiting  the  amount  of 
gold-antimony  alloy  which  is  available  by  using  a  thin  evaporated  film 
or  by  electroplating  a  thin  film  of  gold-antimony  alloy  on  an  inert  metal 
point  and  alloying  this  structure  to  the  emitter  layer. 

Ohmic,  contact  to  the  collector  is  produced  by  alloying  the  silicon 
wafer  to  an  inert  metal  tab  plated  with  a  gold-antimony  alloy. 


6  THE   BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

The  transistors  whose  characteristics  are  reported  in  this  paper  were 
prepared  from  3  ohm-cm  n-type  siHcon  using  antimony  and  ahmiinum 
as  the  diffusants.  The  base  contact  was  produced  by  evaporating  alumi- 
num through  a  mask  so  that  a  hne  approximately  0.005  X  0.015  cm  in 

o 

lateral  dimensions  and  100,000  A  thick  was  formed  on  the  surface.  This 
aluminum  line  was  alloyed  through  the  emitter  layer  in  a  subsequent 
operation.  The  wafer  was  then  alloyed  onto  the  plated  kovar  tab.  A 
small  area  approximately  0.015  cm  in  diameter  was  masked  around  the 
line  and  the  wafer  was  etched  to  remove  the  unwanted  layers.  The  unit 
was  then  mounted  in  a  header.  Electrical  contact  to  the  collector  was 
made  by  soldering  to  the  kovar  tab.  Contact  to  the  base  was  made  with 
a  tungsten  point  pressure  contact  to  the  alloyed  aluminum.  Contact 
to  the  emitter  was  made  by  bringing  a  gold-antimony  plated  tungsten 
point  into  pressure  contact  with  the  emitter  layer.  The  gold-antimony 
plate  was  then  alloyed  by  passing  a  controlled  electrical  pulse  between 
the  plated  point  and  the  transistor  collector  lead.  Fig.  3  is  a  photograph 
of  a  mounted  unit. 

2.0   ELECTRICAL    CHARACTERISTICS 

The  frequency  cutoffs  of  experimental  double  diffused  silicon  tran- 
sistors fabricated  as  described  above  are  an  order  of  magnitude  higher 
than  the  known  cutoff  frequencies  of  earlier  silicon  transistors.  This  is 
shown  in  Fig.  4  which  gives  the  measured  common  base  and  common 
emitter  current  gains  for  one  of  these  units  as  a  function  of  frequency. 
The  common  base  short-circuit  current  gain  is  seen  to  have  a  cutoff  fre- 
quency of  about  120  mc/sec.  The  common  emitter  short-circuit  current 
gain  is  shown  on  the  same  figure.  The  low-freciuency  current  gain  is 
better  than  thirty  decibels  and  the  cutoff  frequency  which  is  indicated 
by  the  freciuency  at  which  the  gain  is  3  db  below  its  low-frequency 
value  is  3  mc/sec.  This  is  an  exceptionally  large  common  emitter  band- 
width for  a  thirty  db  common  emitter  current  gain  and  is  of  the  same 
order  of  magnitude  as  that  obtained  with  the  highest  frequency  ger- 
manium transistors  (e.q.,  p-n-i-p  or  tetrode)  which  had  been  made 
prior  to  the  diffused  base  germanium  transistor. 


^  Tlio  iiicroasp  in  (•oiiiinon  haso  current  gain  ahovc  unity  (indicated  by  current 
gain  in  decibels  being  positive)  in  the  vicinity  of  50  mc/sec  is  caused  by  a  reactance 
gain  error  in  the  common  base  measurement.  This  error  is  caused  by  a  combination 
of  the  emitter  to  ground  parasitic  capacitance  and  the  i)ositive  reactance  com- 
ponent of  the  transistor  input  impedance  resulting  from  phase  shift  in  the  ali)ha 
current  gain. 

'  C.  A.  Lee,  A  High-Frequency  Diffused  Base  Germanium  Transistor,  see 
page  23. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 


z 
< 

o 

I- 

z 

LJ 

a. 
cr 

D 
O 


40 


30 


20 


(0 


-\0 


-20 


-30 


Ie  = 

3  MA 

Vc 

=  10  VOLTS 

COMMON^ 
EMITTER 

N 

'OCCB    —   ^  ^^ 
OCq   =   0.9716 

['=^"=106MC 

l-Ofg 

\     facb  =  i20MC 

\ 

COMMON 

BASE 

\ 

\ 

\ 

0.1     0.2       0.5     1.0      2  6        10      20         50     100    200 

FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


500  1000 


Fig.  4  — ■  Short-circuit  current  gain  of  a  double  diffused  silicon  n-p-n  transistor 
as  a  function  of  frequency  in  the  common  emitter  and  common  base  connections. 


Fig.  5  shows  a  high-freciueiicy  lumped  constant  equivalent  circuit 
for  the  double  diffused  silicon  transistor  whose  current  gain  cutoff  char- 
acteristic is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  External  parasitic  capacitances  have  been 
omitted  from  the  circuit.  The  configuration  is  the  conventional  one  for 
junction  transistors  with  two  exceptions.  A  series  resistance  rj  has  been 
added  in  the  emitter  circuit  to  account  for  contact  resistance  resulting 
from  the  fact  that  the  present  emitter  point  contacts  are  not  perfectly 
ohmic.  A  second  resistance  r/  has  been  added  in  the  collector  circuit  to 
account  for  the  ohmic  resistance  of  the  n-type  silicon  between  the  col- 
lector terminal  and  the  effective  collector  junction.  This  resistance  exists 
in  all  junction  transistors  but  in  larger  area  low  frequency  junction 
transistors  its  effect  on  alpha-cutoff  is  sufficiently  small  so  that  it  has 
been  ignored  in  equivalent  circuits  of  these  devices.  The  collector  RC 


Ce  =  TmmF 


Pq  -]AU) 


Cc  =  0.52//^F  r '  _  ,50  co 


Tg  =  150; 


a 


J^C( 


•Le 


'%=QOCO 


COMMON    BASE    CURRENT 
GAIN    CUT-OFF    FREQUENCY 


■  120  MC 


Ic  =  3  MA 
Vc  =  10  VOLTS 


Fig.  5  ~  High-frequency  lumped   constant  equivalent  circuit  for  a  double 
diffused  silicon  n-p-n  transistor. 


8 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


cutoff  caused  by  the  collector  capacitance  and  the  combined  collector 
body  resistance  and  base  resistance  is  an  order  of  magnitude  higher 
than  the  measured  alpha  cutoff  frequency  and  therefore  is  not  too  serious 
in  impairing  the  very  high-frecjuency  performance  of  the  transistor. 
This  is  due  to  the  low  capacitance  of  the  collector  junction  which  is 
seen  to  be  approximately  0.5  mmf  at  10  volts  collector  voltage.  The 
base  resistance  of  this  transistor  is  less  than  100  ohms  which  is  quite  low 
and  compares  very  favorably  with  the  best  low  frequency  transistors 
reported  previously. 

The  low-frequency  characteristics  of  the  double  diffused  silicon  tran- 
sistor are  very  similar  to  those  of  other  junction  transistors.  This  is  il- 
lustrated in  Fig.  6  where  the  static  collector  characteristics  of  one  of 
these  transistors  are  given.  At  zero  emitter  current  the  collector  current 
is  too  small  to  be  seen  on  the  scale  of  this  figure.  The  collector  current 


45 


40 


35 


30 


25 


20 


15 


10 


-5 


le=0 

2 

4            6 

8 

10 

12 

] 

J 

14/ 

^ 

J^ 

^ 

y^ 

^ 

2  4  6  8  10  12  14 

CURRENT,  If,  IN   MILUAMPERES 


Fig.  6  —  Collector  characteristics  of  a  double  diffused  silicon   n-p-n   tran- 
sistor. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 


9 


0.98 


0.94 


0.90 


0.86 


a 


0.82 


0.78 


0.74 


0.70 


T=150°C, 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

7 

<^ 

y 
^ 

^ 

^ 

\ 

/ 

9/ 

y 

24, 5M 
65-W 

/> 

7 

/24.5 

t35^y\ 

7 

15ol 

/ 

/ 

1 

1 

1 

_L. 

1 

1 

1 

,1 

0.1  0.2  0.4     0.6         1  2  4        6     8   10  20 

CURRENT,  Ig,  IN   MILLIAMPERES 

Fig.  7  —  Alpha  as  a  function  of  emitter  current  and  temperature  for  a  double 
diffused  silicon  n-p-n  transistor. 


under  this  condition  does  not  truly  saturate  but  collector  junction  re- 
sistance is  very  high.  Collector  junction  resistances  of  50  megohms  at 
reverse  biases  of  50  volts  are  common. 

The  continuous  power  dissipation  permissible  with  these  units  is  also 
shown  in  Fig.  6.  The  figure  shows  dissipation  of  200  milliwatts  and  the 
units  have  been  operated  at  400  milliwatts  without  damage.  As  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  3  no  special  provision  has  been  made  for  power  dissipation 
and  it  would  appear  from  the  performance  obtained  to  date  that  powers 
of  a  few  watts  could  be  handled  by  these  iniits  with  relatively  minor 
provisions  for  heat  dissipation.  However,  it  can  also  be  seen  from  Fig.  6 
that  at  low  collector  voltages  alpha  decreases  rapidly  as  the  emitter 
current  is  increased.  The  transistor  is,  therefore,  non-linear  in  this 
range  of  emitter  currents  and  collector  voltages.  In  many  applications, 
this  non-linearity  may  limit  the  operating  range  of  the  device  to  values 
below  those  which  would  be  permissible  from  the  point  of  view  of  con- 
tinuous power  dissipation. 

Fig.  7  gives  the  magnitude  of  alpha  as  a  function  of  emitter  current 
for  a  fixed  collector  voltage  of  10  volts  and  a  number  of  ambient  tem- 
peratures. These  curves  are  presented  to  illustrate  the  stability  of  the 
parameters  of  the  double  diffused  silicon  transistor  at  increased  ambient 
temperatures.  Over  the  range  from  1  to  15  milliamperes  emitter  current 
and  25°C  to  150°C  ambient  temperature,  alpha  is  seen  to  change  only 


10  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

by  approximately  2  per  cent.  This  amounts  to  only  150  parts  per  million 
change  in  alpha  per  degree  centigrade  change  in  ambient  temperature. 
The  decrease  in  alpha  at  low  emitter  currents  shown  in  Fig.  7  has  been 
observed  in  every  double  diffused  silicon  transistor  which  has  been  made 
to  date.  Although  this  effect  is  not  completely  understood  at  present  it 
could  be  caused  by  recombination  centers  in  the  base  layer  that  can 
be  saturated  at  high  injection  levels.  Such  saturation  would  result  in  an 
increase  in  effective  lifetime  and  a  corresponding  increase  in  alpha.  The 
large  increase  in  alpha  with  temperature  at  low  emitter  currents  is  con- 
sistent with  this  proposal.  It  has  also  been  observed  that  shining  a  strong 
light  on  the  transistor  will  produce  an  appreciable  increase  in  alpha  at 
low  emitter  currents  but  has  little  effect  at  high  emitter  currents.  A 
strong  light  would  also  be  expected  to  saturate  recombination  centers 
which  are  active  at  low  emitter  currents  and  this  behavior  is  also  con- 
sistent with  the  above  proposal. 

3.0   DISCUSSION    OF   THE   TRANSISTOR   STRUCTURE 

Although  the  low  frequency  electrical  characteristics  of  the  double 
diffused  silicon  transistor  which  are  presented  in  Section  2  are  quite 
similar  to  those  usually  obtained  in  junction  transistors,  the  structure 
of  the  double  diffused  transistor  is  sufficiently  different  from  that  of  the 
grown  junction  or  alloy  transistor  that  a  discussion  of  some  design 
principles  is  warranted.  This  section  is  devoted  to  a  general  discussion 
of  the  factors  which  determine  the  electrical  characteristics  of  the  tran- 
sistors. In  Section  4  the  general  ideas  of  Section  3  are  applied  in  a  more 
specialized  fashion  to  the  double  diffused  structure  and  a  detailed  cal- 
culation of  electrical  parameters  is  presented. 

One  essential  difference  between  the  double  diffused  transistor  and 
grown  junction  or  alloy  transistors  arises  from  the  manner  in  which  the 
impurities  are  distributed  in  the  three  active  regions.  In  the  ideal  case 
of  a  double-doped  grown  junction  transistor  or  an  alloy  transistor  the 
concentration  of  impurities  in  a  given  region  is  essentially  uniform  and 
the  transition  from  one  conductivity  type  to  another  at  the  emitter  and 
collector  junctions  is  abrupt  giving  rise  to  step  junctions.  On  the  other 
hand  in  the  double  diffused  structure  the  distribution  of  impurities  is 
more  closely  described  by  the  error  function  complement  and  the  emitter 
and  collector  junctions  are  graded.  Tlu\se  differences  can  have  an  appre- 
ciable influence  on  the  electrical  beha\'ior  of  the  transistors. 

Fig.  8(a)  shows  the  probable  distribution  of  donor  impurities,  No  , 
and  acceptor  impurities,  A''^  ,  in  a  double  diffused  n-p-n.  Fig.  8(b)  is  a 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 


11 


DONORS 

ACCEPTORS 


DISTANCE 

(a) 


DISTANCE    *• 

(b) 

Fig.  8  —  Diagrammatic  representation  of  (a)  donor  and  acceptor  distributions 
and  (b)  uncompensated  impuritj-  distribution  in  a  double  diffused  n-p-n  tran- 
sistor. 


plot  of  Nd  —  Na  which  would  result  from  the  distribution  in  Fig.  8(a). 
Kromer  has  shown  that  a  nonuniform  distribution  of  impurities  in  a 
semiconductor  will  produce  electric  fields  which  can  influence  the  flow 
of  electrons  and  holes.  For  example,  in  the  base  region  the  fields  between 
the  emitter  junction,  Xe ,  and  the  minimum  in  the  Nd  —  Na  curve,  x', 
will  retard  the  flow  of  electrons  toward  the  collector  while  the  fields 
between  this  minimum  and  the  collector  jvmction,  Xc ,  will  accelerate  the 
flow  of  electrons  toward  the  collector.  These  base  laj^er  fields  will  affect 
the  transit  time  of  minority  carriers  across  the  base  and  thus  contribute 

*  H.  Kromer,  On  Diffusion  and  Drift  Transistor  Theory  I,  II,  III,  Archiv.  der 
Electr.  Ubertragung,  8,  pp.  223-228,  pp.  363-369,  pp.  499-504,  1954. 


12  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOUENAL,    JANUARY    1956 

to  the  fre(iuency  response  of  the  transistor.  In  addition  the  base  re- 
sistance will  be  dependent  on  the  distribution  of  both  diffusants.  These 
three  factors  are  discussed  in  detail  below. 

Moll  and  Ross  have  determined  that  the  minority  current,  /,„  ,  that 
will  flow  into  the  base  region  of  a  transistor  if  the  base  is  doped  in  a  non- 
uniform manner  is  given  by 


f  N(x)  dx 


where  rii  is  the  carrier  concentration  in  intrinsic  material,  q  is  the  elec- 
tronic charge,  V  is  the  applied  voltage,  Dm  is  the  diffusion  coefficient  of 
the  minority  carriers,  and  the  integral  represents  the  total  number  of 
uncompensated  impurities  in  the  base.  The  primary  assumptions  in  this 
derivation  are  (1)  planar  junctions,  (2)  no  recombination  in  the  base 
region,  and  (3)  a  boundary  condition  at  the  collector  junction  that  the 
minority  carrier  density  at  this  point  equals  zero.  It  is  also  assumed  that 
the  minority  carrier  concentration  in  the  base  region  just  adjacent  to  the 
emitter  junction  is  equal  to  the  equilibrium  minority  carrier  density  at 
this  point  multiplied  by  the  Boltzman  factor  exp  (qV/kT).  It  is  of  special 
interest  to  note  that  Im  depends  only  on  the  total  number  of  uncom- 
pensated impurities  in  the  base  and  not  on  the  manner  in  which  they 
are  distributed. 

In  the  double  diffused  transistor,  it  has  been  convenient  from  the 
point  of  ease  of  fabrication  to  make  the  emitter  layer  approximately  the 
same  thickness  as  the  base  layer.  It  has  been  observed  that  heating  sili- 
con to  high  temperatures  degrades  the  lifetime  of  n-  and  p-type  silicon 
in  a  similar  manner.  Both  base  and  emitter  layers  have  experienced  the 
same  heat  treatment  and  to  a  first  approximation  it  can  be  assumed  that 
the  lifetime  in  the  two  regions  will  be  essentially  the  same.  Thus  as- 
sumptions (1)  and  (2)  should  also  apply  to  current  flow  from  base  to 
emitter.  If  we  assume  that  the  surface  recombination  \'elocity  at  the 
free  surface  of  the  emitter  is  infinite,  then  this  imposes  a  boundary 
condition  at  this  side  of  the  emitter  which  under  conditions  of  forward 
bias  on  the  emitter  is  equivalent  to  assumption  (3).  Thus  an  equation 
of  the  form  of  (3.1)  should  also  give  the  minority  current  flow  from  base 
to  emitter.  Since  the  emitter  efficiency,  y,  is  given  by 


^  J.  Tj.  Moll  and  I.  M.  Ross,  The  J)opendencc  of  Transistor  Paramotors  on  tlie 
Distribution  of  Base  Layer  liesistivity,  Proc.  I.R.E.  in  press. 
8  G.  Bemski,  private  comnmnication. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON    TRANSISTORS  13 

/m  (emitter  to  base) 

-y     =    . . . 

/^(emitter  to  base)  +  /„j(base  to  emitter) 

proper  substitution  of  (3.1)  will  give  the  emitter  efficiency  of  the  double 
diffused  n-p-n  transistor, 

1 


7    = 


J-'n 


Z).^''^-^"^ 


dx 


p  .6  (3.2) 


\  (No  -  iVj  dx 


In  (3.2),  Dp  is  the  diffusion  coefficient  of  holes  in  the  emitter,  /)„  is  the 
diffusion  coefficient  of  electrons  in  the  base  and  the  ratio  of  integrals  is 
the  ratio  of  total  uncompensated  doping  in  the  base  to  that  in  the 
emitter. 

A  calculation  of  transit  time  is  more  difficult.  Kromer  has  studied 
the  case  of  an  aiding  field  which  reduces  transit  time  of  minority  carriers 
across  the  base  region  and  thus  increases  frequency  response.  In  the 
double  diffused  transistor  the  situation  is  more  complex.  Near  the 
emitter  side  of  the  base  region  the  field  is  retarding  (Region  R,  see  Fig.  8) 
and  becomes  aiding  (Region  A)  only  after  the  base  region  doping  reaches 
a  maximum.  The  case  of  retarding  fields  has  been  studied  by  Lee  and 
by  MoU.^  At  present,  the  case  for  a  base  region  containing  both  types  of 
fields  has  not  been  solved.  However,  at  the  present  state  of  knowledge 
some  speculations  about  transit  time  can  be  made. 

The  two  factors  of  primary  importance  are  the  magnitude  of  the 
built-in  fields  and  the  distance  over  which  they  extend.  In  the  double 
diffused  transistor,  the  widths  of  regions  R  and  A  are  determined  by  the 
surface  concentrations  and  diffusion  coefficients  of  the  diffusants.  It 
Can  be  shown  by  numerical  computation  that  if  region  R  constitutes  no 
more  than  30-40  per  cent  of  the  entire  base  layer  width,  then  the  overall 
effect  of  the  built-in  fields  will  be  to  aid  the  transport  of  minority  car- 
riers and  to  produce  a  reduction  in  transit  time.  In  addition  the  absolute 
magnitude  of  region  R  is  important.  If  the  point  x'  should  occur  within 
an  effective  Debye  length  from  the  emitter  junction,  i.e.,  if  x'  is  located 
in  the  space  charge  region  associated  with  the  emitter  junction,  then  the 
retarding  fields  can  be  neglected. 

The  base  resistance  can  also  be  calculated  from  surface  concentrations 
and  diffusion  coefficients  of  the  impurities.  This  is  done  by  considering 
the  base  layer  as  a  conducting  sheet  and  determining  the  sheet  con- 

'  J.  L.  Moll,  private  communication. 


14  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

ductivity  from  the  total  number  of  uncompensated  impurities  per  square 
centimeter  of  sheet  and  the  approjiriate  moliility  weighted  to  account 
for  impurity  scattering. 

4.0   CALCULATION    OF   DESIGN    PARAMETERS 

To  calculate  the  parameters  which  determine  emitter  efficiency,  transit 
time,  and  base  resistance  it  is  assumed  that  the  distribution  of  uncom- 
pensated impurities  is  given  by 

N(x)  =  Nicrfc  f  -  N-2erJc^  +  Nz  (4.1) 

where  A^i  and  A^2  are  the  surface  concentrations  of  the  emitter  and  base 
impurity  diffusants  respectively,  Li  and  L^  are  their  respective  diffusion 
lengths,  and  Nz  is  the  original  doping  of  the  semiconductor  into  which 
the  impurities  are  diffused.  The  impurity  diffusion  lengths  are  defined  as 

Li  =  2  V/M     and     L2  =  2  ^Ddo  (4.2) 

where  the  D's  are  the  respective  diffusion  coefficients  and  the  f's  are  the 
diffusion  times. 

Equation  (4.1)  can  be  reduced  to 


r(^)  =  Ti  erfc  I  -  Ta  erfc  X^  +  1  (4.3) 


where 


For  cases  of  interest  here,  r(^)  will  be  zero  at  two  points,  a  and  13, 
and  will  have  one  minimum  at  ^'.  In  the  transistor  structure  the  emitter 
junction  occurs  at  ^  =  ^v  and  the  collector  junction  occurs  at  ^  =  (3. 
Thus  the  base  width  is  determined  by  13  —  a.  The  extent  of  aiding  and 
retarding  fields  in  the  base  is  determined  by  ^'.  The  integral  of  (4.3) 
from  0  to  a,  I\  ,  and  from  o  to  ^,  I2 ,  are  the  integrals  of  interest  in  (3.2) 
and  thus  determine  emitter  efficiency.  In  addition  I2  is  the  integral  from 
which  base  resistance  can  be  calculated. 

The  calculations  which  follow  apply  only  for  values  of  ri/r2  and  To 
greater  than  ten.  Some  of  the  simplifying  assumptions  which  are  made 
will  not  apply  at  lower  values  of  these  parameters  where  the  distribution 
of  both  diffusants  as  well  as  the  background  doping  affect  the  structure 
in  all  three  regions  of  the  device. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 


15 


4.1  Base  Width 

From  Fig.  8  and  (4.3)  it  can  be  seen  that  for  r2  ^  10,  a  is  essentially 
independent  of  r2  and  is  primarily  a  function  of  T1/T2  and  X.  Fig.  9  is  a 
plot  of  a  versus  ri/r2  with  X  as  the  parameter.  The  particular  plot  is  for 
r2  =  10  .  Although  as  stated  a  is  essentially  independent  of  r2 ,  at  lower 
values  of  r2,  a  may  not  exist  for  the  larger  values  of  X,  i.e.,  the  p-layer 
does  not  form. 

In  the  same  manner,  it  can  be  seen  that  ^  is  essentially  independent  of 
T]/T2  and  is  a  function  only  of  r2  and  X.  Fig.  10  is  a  plot  of  /3  versus  F^ 
with  X  as  a  parameter.  This  plot  is  for  Ti/Fo  =  10  and  at  larger  Fi/Fo , 
/3  may  not  exist  at  large  X. 


10" 


\0' 


10 


r2=)o'' 

/// 

// 

/ 

^ 

::i 

ll 

r     / 

/ 

m 

0/  / 

' 

> 

/os/ 

1 

i 

1 

/// 

'o.e/ 

/ 

f  0.7/ 

/ 

/// 

/ 

/ 

<.e 

I 

w. 

W 

/ 
/ 

/ 

1.0 


1.4 


1.8 


2.2  2.6 

a 


3.0 


3.4 


3.8 


Fig.  9  —  Emitter  layer  thickness  (in  reduced  units)  as  a  function  of  the  ratio 
of  the  surface  concentrations  of  the  diffusing  impurities  (ri/r2)  and  the  ratio  of 
their  diffusion  lengths  (X). 


16 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


The  base  width 


W  =  ^  —  a 


can  be  obtained  from  Figs.  9  and  10.  a,  13  and  iv  can  be  converted  to 
centimeters  by  nuiltiplying  by  the  appropriate  value  of  Li  . 

4.2  Emitter  Efficiency 

With  the  hmits  a  and  /3  determined  above,  the  integrals  h  and  1 2  can 
be  calculated.  Examination  of  the  integrals  shows  that  h  is  closely  pro- 
portional to  ri/r2  and  also  to  r2 .  On  the  other  hand  I2  is  closely  propor- 
tional to  r2  and  essentially  independent  of  ri/r2 .  Thus,  the  ratio  of 
/2//1  which  determines  7  depends  primarily  on  ri/r2 .  Fig.  11  is  a  plot 
of  the  constant  /2//1  contours  in  the  ri/T2  —  X  plane  for  lo/h  ii^  the 
range  from  — 1.0  to  —0.01.  The  graph  is  for  r2  =  10  .  Since  from  (3.2) 


7   = 


1 


1  _  ^h 

Dnh 


(4.4) 


for  an  n-p-n  transistor,  and  assuming  Dp/Dn   =   /^  for  silicon,  then 


to' 


(0- 


10' 


10 


1' 

1 

\= 

..J\ 

0.6- 
0.5- 

::ffl 

M 

\u 

|6  In 
1     1° 

1 

\\\ 

( 

0.2 

0.1 

'/// 

/// 

0.01/ 

ill 

7 

/ 

/ 

/// 

/ 

/ 

/ 

10 


20  50 


100    200 


500     1000 


Fig.  10  —  (Collector  junction  dopth  (in  rodurod  units)  as  a  function  of  the  sur- 
face concuMit.ration  (in  reduced  units)  of  llie  dilfusaiit  wliicli  determines  the  con- 
ductivity type  of  the  l)ase  layer  (I'.')  and  liie  ratio  of  tlie  dilTusioii  lengths  (X)  of 
the  tAvo  diffusing  inii)urifies. 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER    AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 

10" 


17 


10 


H 

Ta 


10 


10 


r2  =  io'* 

2 

w 

\v 

V 

2 
? 

1 

^ 

1 

\\ 

\ 

t 

^. 

\ 

\I2/I 

1 

2 

V 

,\ 

N-0 

VO.05 

02 

-i.o\ 

-0.3S^ 

32X^0 

'\ 

0.1 


0.2 


0.3 


0.4 


0.5 


0.6 


0.7 


Fig.  11  — ^Dependence  of  emitter  efficiency  upon  diffusant  surface  concentra- 
tions and  diffusion  lengths.  The  lines  of  constant  /2//1  are  essentially  lines  of 
constant  emitter  efficiency.  The  ordinate  is  the  ratio  of  surface  concentrations  of 
the  two  diffusants  and  the  abscissa  is  the  ratio  of  their  diffusion  lengths. 

/2//1  =  — 1.0  corresponds  to  a  7  of  0.75  and  /2//1  =  —0.01  corresponds 
to  a  7  of  0.997. 


4.. 3  Base  Resistance 

It  was  indicated  above  that  I2  depends  principally  on  r2  and  X.  Fig.  12 
is  a  plot  of  the  constant  I2  contours  in  the  r2  —  X  plane  for  I2  in  the  range 
from  —10^  to  —10.  The  graph  is  for  Ti/To  =  10.  The  base  layer  sheet 
conductivity,  cjb  ,  can  be  calculated  from  these  data  as 


Qb  =   —qtihTjiNz 


(4.5) 


where  q,  L\  and  A^3  are  as  defined  above  and  /I  is  a  mobility  properly 
weighted  to  account  for  impurity  scattering  in  the  non-uniformly  doped 
base  region.  The  units  of  gb  are  mhos  per  square. 


18 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 


10- 

1 2= -10,00^ 

/ 

/ 

7/ 

1 

/ 

-5000/ 

r 

/  / 

// 

/ 

/ 

/       -1000/ 

// 

// 

/  / 1 

2 

1 

/ 

/-5oa 

/  / 

/   / 

/  1 

^/^^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/I 

^/ 

/  / 

1 1 

10 

/ 

/ 

// 

v. 

/-ioy 

V 

11 

/  / 

/ 

/, 

// 

/-/  , 

(I 

5 

// 

/, 

-^ 

/J 

/ 

V/ 

/ 

2 

^ 

^ 

^ 

f^ 

u 

10 

102 

r 

/  / 

^ 

/ 
/ 

^ 

5 

— 1 

0 

^/ 

V 

r 

10 

/ 

/ 

0.1 


0.2 


0.3 


0.4 


0.5 


0.6 


0.7 


Fig.  12  —  Dependence  of  base  layer  sheet  condiictivitj^  on  diffusant  surface 
concentrations  and  diffusion  lengths.  The  lines  of  constant  Ii  are  essentiallj'  lines 
of  constant  base  sheet  conductivity.  The  ordinate  is  the  surface  concentration 
(in  reduced  units)  of  the  diffusant  which  determines  the  conductivity  type  of  the 
base  layer  and  the  abscissa  is  the  ratio  of  the  diffusion  lengths  of  the  two  difi'using 
impurities. 

4.4  Transit  Time 

With  a  knowledge  of  where  the  minimum  value,  ^',  of  (4.3)  occurs, 
it  is  possible  to  calculate  over  what  fraction  of  the  base  width  the  fields 
are  retarding.  The  interesting  quantity  here  is 

13  -  a 

^  is  a  function  of  ri/r2  and  X  and  varies  only  very  slowly  with  ri/r2 . 
a  is  also  a  function  of  ri/r2  and  X  and  varies  only  slowly  with  ri/r2 . 
The  most  rapidly  changing  part  of  bJi  is  l^  which  depends  primarily  on 
r2  as  noted  above.  Fig.  13  is  a  plot  of  the  constant  LR  contours  in  the 
r2  —  X  plane  for  values  of  A/2  in  the  range  0.1  to  0.3.  This  graph  is 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON   TRANSISTORS 


19 


lor  data  with  ri/r2  =  10.  As  ri/r2  increases  at  constant  r2  and  X,  AR 
decreases  slightly.  At  ri/r2  =  10\  the  average  change  in  AR  is  a  decrease 
of  about  25  per  cent  for  constant  r2  and  X  when  AR  ^  0.3.  The  error  is 
larger  for  values  of  AR  greater  than  0.3.  It  was  noted  above  that  when 
AR  becomes  greater  than  0.3,  the  retarding  fields  become  dominant. 
Therefore,  this  region  is  of  slight  interest  in  the  design  of  a  high  frequency 
transistor. 

4.5  A  Sample  Design 

By  superimposing  Figs.  11,  12  and  13  the  ranges  of  r2 ,  ri/r2  and  X 
which  are  consistent  with  desired  values  of  y,  gt  and  AR  can  be  deter- 


0.7 


Fig.  1.3  —  Dependence  of  the  built-in  field  distribution  on  concentrations  and 
diffusion  lengths.  The  lines  of  constant  aR  indicate  the  fraction  of  the  base  layer 
thickness  over  which  built-in  fields  are  retarding.  The  ordinate  is  the  surface 
concentration  (in  reduced  units)  of  the  diffusant  which  determines  the  conductiv- 
ity type  of  the  base  layer  and  the  abscissa  is  the  ratio  of  the  diffusion  lengths  of 
the  two  diffusing  impurities. 


20  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 

mined  by  the  area  enclosed  by  the  specified  contour  lines.  It  is  also 
possible  to  compare  the  measured  parameters  of  a  specific  device  and 
observe  how  closely  they  agree  with  what  is  predicted  from  the  estimated 
concentrations  and  diffusion  coefficients.  This  is  done  below  for  the 
transistor  described  in  Sections  1  and  2. 

The  comparison  is  complicated  by  the  fact  that  the  exact  values  of  the 
surface  concentrations  and  diffusion  coefficients  are  not  known  {Precisely 
enough  at  present  to  permit  an  accurate  evaluation  of  the  design  theory. 
However,  the  following  values  of  concentrations  and  diffusion  coefficients 
are  thought  to  be  realistic  for  this  transistor. 

iVi  =  5  X  10^'        /)i  =  3  X  10"''  /i  =  5.7  X  lO' 

iV2  =  4  X  10''        Di  =  2.5  X  10""         t^=  1.2  X  lO' 

Nz  =  10'' 

From  these  values  it  is  seen  that 

Ti/ra  =  12.5;         r,  =  400;         X  =  0.6 

From  Fig.  9,  a  =  1.9  and  from  Fig.  10,  /3  =  3.6  and  therefore  w  =  1.7. 
Measurement  of  the  emitter  and  base  layer  dimensions  showed  that  these 
layers  were  approximately  the  same  thickness  which  was  3.8  X  10"  cm. 
Thus  the  ifieasured  ratio  of  emitter  width  to  base  width  of  unity  is  in 
good  agreement  with  the  ^'alue  of  1.1  predicted  from  the  assumed  con- 
centrations and  diffusion  coefficients. 

From  Fig.  11,  lo/h  ~  —0.01.  If  this  value  is  substituted  into  (4.4), 
7  =  0.997.  This  compares  with  a  measured  maximum  alpha  of  0.972. 

From  Fig.  12,  lo  =  —15.  Assuming  an  average  hole  mobility  of  350 
cm' /volt.  sec.  and  evaluating  Li  from  the  measured  emitter  thickness 
and  the  calculated  a,  (4.5)  gives  a  value  of  gb  =  1.7  X  10^  mhos  per 
square.  The  geometry  of  the  emitter  and  base  contacts  as  shown  in  Fig. 
3  makes  it  difficult  to  calculate  the  effective  base  resistance  from  the 
sheet  conductivity  even  at  very  small  emitter  currents.  In  addition  at 
the  very  high  inje{;tion  levels  at  which  these  transistors  are  operated  the 
calculation  of  effective  base  resistance  becomes  very  difficult.  However, 
from  the  geometr}^  it  would  be  expected  that  the  effective  base  re- 
sistance would  l)c  no  greater  than  0.1  of  the  sheet  resistivity  or  600  ohms. 
This  is  about  seven  times  larger  than  the  measured  \'alue  of  80  ohms 
reported  in  Section  2. 

From  Fig.  b3,  A/^  is  approximately  0.20.  Thus  there  should  be  an  over- 
all aiding  elfect  of  the  built-in  fields.  In  addition  the  impurity  gradient 
at  the  emitter  junction  is  believed  to  be  approximately  lO'Vcm  and  the 


DIFFUSED    EMITTER   AND    BASE    SILICON    TRANSISTORS  21 

space  charge  associated  with  this  gradient  will  extend  approximately 
2   X   10  ■'  cm  into  the  base  region.  The  base  thickness  over  which  re- 
tarding fields  extend  is  AR  times  the  base  width  or  7.6  X  10~^  cm.  Thus 
the  first  quarter  of  region  R  will  be  space  charge  and  can  be  neglected. 
The  frequency  cutoff  from  pure  diffusion  transit  is  given  by 

2A3D  ,.    , 

where  W  is  the  measured  base  layer  thickness.  Assuming  D  —  25  cmVsec 
for  electrons  in  the  base  region,  ,/'„  =  (w  mc/sec.  Since  the  measured 
cutoff  was  120  mc/sec,  the  predicted  aiding  effect  of  the  built-in  field 
is  evidently  present. 

These  computations  illustrate  how  the  measured  electrical  parameters 
can  be  used  to  check  the  values  of  the  surface  concentrations  and  dif- 
fusion coefficients.  Conversely  knowledge  of  the  concentrations  and 
diffusion  coefficients  aid  in  the  design  of  devices  which  will  have  pre- 
scribed electrical  parameters.  The  agreement  in  the  case  of  the  transistor 
described  above  is  not  perfect  and  indicates  errors  in  the  proposed  values 
of  the  concentrations  and  diffusion  coefficients.  However,  it  is  sufficiently 
close  to  be  encouraging  and  indicate  the  value  of  the  calculations. 

The  discussion  of  design  has  been  limited  to  a  very  few  of  the  important 
parameters.  Junction  capacitances,  emitter  and  collector  resistances  are 
among  the  other  important  characteristics  which  have  been  omitted 
here.  Presumably  all  of  these  quantities  can  be  calculated  if  the  detailed 
structure  of  the  device  is  known  and  the  structure  should  be  susceptible 
to  the  type  of  analysis  used  above.  Another  fact,  which  has  been  ignored, 
is  that  these  transistors  were  operated  at  high  injection  levels  and  a  low 
level  analysis  of  electrical  parameters  was  used.  All  of  these  other  factors 
must  be  considered  for  a  detailed  understanding  of  the  device.  The  object 
of  this  last  section  has  been  to  indicate  one  path  which  the  more  detailed 
analysis  might  take. 

5.0   CONCLUSIONS 

By  means  of  multiple  diffusion,  it  has  been  possible  to  produce  silicon 
transistors  with  alpha-cutoff  above  100  mc/sec.  Refinements  of  the 
described  technicjues  offer  the  possibility  of  even  higher  frequency  per- 
formance. These  transistors  show  the  other  advantages  expected  from 
silicon  such  as  low  saturation  currents  and  satisfactory  operation  at 
high  temperatures. 

The  structure  of  the  double  diffused  transistor  is  susceptible  to  design 


22  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 

analysis  in  a  fashion  similar  to  that  which  has  been  applied  to  other  junc- 
tion transistors.  The  non-uniform  distribution  of  impurities  produces 
significant  electrical  effects  which  can  be  controlled  to  enhance  appre- 
cial)ly  the  high-frequency  behavior  of  the  devices. 

The  extreme  control  inherent  in  the  use  of  diffusion  to  distribute  im- 
purities in  a  semiconductor  structure  suggests  that  this  technique  will 
become  one  of  the  most  valuable  in  the  fabrication  of  semiconductor 
devices. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

The  authors  are  indebted  to  several  people  who  contributed  to  the 
work  described  in  this  paper.  In  particular,  the  double  diffused  silicon 
from  which  the  transistors  were  prepared  was  supplied  by  C.  S.  Fuller 
and  J.  A.  Ditzenberger.  The  data  on  diffusion  coefficients  and  concen- 
trations were  also  obtained  by  them. 

P.  W.  Foy  and  G.  Kaminsky  assisted  in  the  fabrication  and  mounting 
of  the  transistors  and  J.  M.  Klein  aided  in  the  electrical  characterization. 
The  computations  of  the  various  solutions  of  the  diffusion  equation,  (4.3), 
were  performed  by  Francis  Maier.  In  addition  many  valuable  discussions 
with  C.  A.  Lee,  G.  Weinreich,  J.  L.  Moll,  and  G.  C.  Dacey  helped  formu- 
late many  of  the  ideas  presented  herein. 


A  High-Frequency  Diffused  Base 
Gernianiuni  Transistor 

By  CHARLES  A.  LEE 

(Manuscript  received  November  15,  1955) 

Techniques  of  impurity  diffusion  and  alloying  have  been  developed  which 
make  possible  the  construction  of  p-n-p  junction  transistors  utilizing  a 
diffused  surface  layer  as  a  base  region.  An  important  Jeature  is  the  high 
degree  of  dimensional  control  obtainable.  Diffusion  has  the  advantages  of 
being  able  to  produce  uniform  large  area  junctions  which  may  be  utilized  in 
high  power  devices,  and  very  thin  surface  layers  which  may  be  utilized  in 
high-frequency  devices. 

Transistors  have  been  made  in  germanium  which  typically  have  alphas 
of  0.98  and  alpha-cutoff  frequencies  of  500  mcls.  The  fabrication,  electrical 
characterization,  and  design  considerations  of  these  transistors  are  dis- 
cussed. 

INTRODUCTION 

Recent  work  ■  concerning  diffusion  of  impurities  into  germanium 
and  silicon  prompted  the  suggestion  that  the  dimensional  control  in- 
herent in  these  processes  be  utilized  to  make  high-frecjuency  transistors. 

One  of  the  critical  dimensions  of  junction  transistors,  which  in  many 
cases  seriously  restricts  their  upper  freciuency  limit  of  operation,  is  the 
thickness  of  the  base  region.  A  considerable  advance  in  transistor  proper- 
ties can  be  accomplished  if  it  is  possible  to  reduce  this  dimension  one  or 
two  orders  of  magnitude.  The  diffusion  constants  of  ordinary  donors 
and  acceptors  in  germanium  are  such  that,  with'n  realizable  tempera- 
tures and  times,  the  depth  of  diffused  surface  layers  may  be  as  small  as 
10"  cm.  Already  in  the  present  works  layers  slightly  less  than  1  micron 
(10~  cm)  thick  have  been  made  and  utilized  in  transistors.  Moreover, 
the  times  and  temperatures  required  to  produce  1  micron  surface  laj^ers 
permit  good  control  of  the  depth  of  penetration  and  the  concentration 
of  the  diffusant  in  the  surface  layer  with  techniciues  described  below. 

If  one  considers  making  a  transistor  whose  base  region  consists  of  such 

23 


24  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 

a  diffused  surface  layer,  several  problems  become  immediately  apparent : 

(1)  Control  of  body  resistivity  and  lifetime  during  the  diffusion  heat- 
ing cycle. 

(2)  Control  of  the  surface  concentration  of  the  diffusant. 

(3)  INIaking  an  emitter  on  the  surface  of  a  thin  diffused  layer  and 
controlling  the  depth  of  penetration. 

(4)  Making  an  ohmic  base  contact  to  the  diffused  surface  layer. 
One  approach  to  the  solution  of  these  problems  in  germanium  which  has 
enabled  us  to  make  transistors  with  alpha-cutoff  frequencies  in  excess 
of  500  mc/sec  is  described  in  the  main  body  of  the  paper. 

An  important  characteristic  feature  of  the  diffusion  technique  is  that 
it  produces  an  impurity  gradient  in  the  base  region  of  the  transistor. 
This  impurity  gradiant  produces  a  "built-in"  electric  field  in  such  a 
direction  as  to  aid  the  transport  of  minority  carriers  from  emitter  to 
collector.  Such  a  drift  field  may  considerably  enhance  the  frequency 
response  of  a  transistor  for  given  physical  dimensions. 

The  capabilities  of  these  new  techniques  are  only  partially  realized 
by  their  application  to  the  making  of  high  frequency  transistors,  and 
even  in  this  field  their  potential  has  not  been  completely  explored.  For 
example,  with  these  techniques  applied  to  making  a  p-n-i-p  structure 
the  possibility  of  constructing  transistor  amplifiers  with  usable  gain  at 
frequencies  in  excess  of  1,000  mc/sec  now  seems  feasible. 

DESCRIPTION   OF  TRANSISTOR  FABRICATION  AND   PHYSICAL  CHARACTERIS- 
TICS 

As  starting  material  for  a  p-n-p  structure,  p-type  germanium  of  0.8 
ohm-cm  resistivity  was  used.  From  the  single  crystal  ingot  rectangular 
bars  were  cut  and  then  lapped  and  polished  to  the  approximate  dimen- 
sions: 200  X  60  X  15  mils.  After  a  slight  etch,  the  bars  were  washed  in 
deionized  water  and  placed  in  a  vacuum  oven  for  the  diffusion  of  an 
n-type  impurity  into  the  surface.  The  vacuum  oven  consisted  of  a  small 
molybdenum  capsule  heated  by  radiation  from  a  tungsten  coil  and  sur- 
rounded by  suitable  radiation  shields  made  also  of  molybdenum.  The 
capsule  could  be  baked  out  at  about  1,900°C  in  order  that  impurities 
detrimental  to  the  electrical  characteristics  of  the  germaniinn  be  evapo- 
rated to  sufficiently  low  levels. 

As  a  source  of  n-type  impurity  to  be  placed  with  the  p-type  bars  in 
the  molybdenum  oven,  arsenic  doped  germanium  was  used.  The  rela- 
tively high  vapor  pressure  of  the  arsenic  was  reduced  to  a  desirable  range 
(about  lO"*  nun  of  Ilg)  by  diluting  it  in  germanium.  The  use  of  ger- 
manium eliminated  any  additional  problems  of  contamination  by  the 


A  HIGH-FREQUENCY  DIFFUSED   BASE  GERMANIUM  TRANSISTOR         25 

dilutant,  and  provided  a  convenient  means  of  determining  the  degree  of 
dilution  by  a  measurement  of  the  conductivity.  The  arsenic  concentra- 
tions used  in  the  source  crystal  were  typically  of  the  order  of  10  '-10^^/cc. 
These  concentrations  were  rather  high  compared  to  the  concentrations 
desired  in  the  diffused  surface  layers  since  compensation  had  to  be  made 
for  losses  of  arsenic  due  to  the  imperfect  fit  of  the  cover  on  the  capsule 
and  due  to  some  chemical  reaction  and  adsorption  which  occurred  on  the 
internal  surfaces  of  the  capsule. 

The  layers  obtained  after  diffusion  were  then  evaluated  for  sheet  con- 
ductivity and  thickness.  To  measure  the  sheet  conductivity  a  four-point 
probe  method^  was  used.  An  island  of  the  surface  layer  was  formed  by 
masking  and  etching  to  reveal  the  junction  between  the  surface  layer 
and  the  p-type  body.  The  island  was  then  biased  in  the  reverse  direction 
with  respect  to  the  body  thus  effectively  isolating  it  electrically  during 
the  measurement  of  its  sheet  conductivity.  The  thickness  of  the  surface 
layer  was  obtained  by  first  lapping  at  a  small  angle  to  the  original  surface 
(3^-2°~l°)  and  locating  the  junction  on  the  beveled  surface  with  a  thermal 
probe;  then  multiplying  the  tangent  of  the  angle  between  the  two  sur- 
faces by  the  distance  from  the  edge  of  the  bevel  to  the  junction  gives  the 
desired  thickness.  Another  particularly  convenient  method  of  measuring 
the  thickness'  is  to  place  a  half  silvered  mirror  parallel  to  the  original  sur- 
face and  count  fringes,  of  the  sodium  D-Yme  for  example,  from  the  edge 
of  the  bevel  to  the  junction.  Typically  the  transistors  described  here 
were  prepared  from  diffused  layers  with  a  sheet  conductivity  of  about 
200  ohms/square,  and  a  layer  thickness  of  (1.5  ±  0.3)  X  10~   cm. 

When  the  surface  layer  had  been  evaluated,  the  emitter  and  base  con- 
tacts were  made  using  techniques  of  vacuum  evaporation  and  alloying. 

o 

For  the  emitter,  a  film  of  aluminum  approximately  1,000  A  thick  was 
evaporated  onto  the  surface  through  a  mask  which  defined  an  emitter 
area  of  1  X  2  mils.  The  bar  with  the  evaporated  aluminum  was  then 
placed  on  a  strip  heater  in  a  hydrogen  atmosphere  and  momentarily 
brought  up  to  a  temperature  sufficient  to  alloy  the  alimiinum.  The 
emitter  having  been  thus  formed,  the  bar  was  again  placed  in  the  masking 
jig  and  a  film  of  gold-antimony  alloy  from  3,000  to  4,000  A  thick  was 
evaporated  onto  the  surface.  This  film  was  identical  in  area  to  the 
emitter,  and  was  placed  parallel  to  and  0.5  to  1  mil  away  from  the 
emitter.  The  bar  was  again  placed  on  the  heater  strip  and  heated  to  the 
gold-germanium  eutectic  temperature,  thus  forming  the  ohmic  base 
contact.  The  masking  jig  was  constructed  to  permit  the  simultaneous 
evaporation  of  eight  pairs  of  contacts  on  each  bar.  Thus,  using  a  3-mil 
diamond  saw,  a  bar  could  be  cut  into  eight  units. 


20 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY    1956 


Each  unit,  with  an  alloyed  emitter  and  base  contact,  was  then  soldered 
to  a  platinum  tab  with  indium,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  indium  being- 
used  to  alloy  through  the  n-type  surface  layer  on  the  back  of  the  unit. 
One  of  the  last  steps  was  to  mask  the  emitter  and  base  contacts  with  a 
6-  to  8-mil  diameter  dot  of  wax  and  form  a  small  area  collector  junction 
by  etching  the  unit  attached  to  the  platinum  tab,  in  CP4.  After  washing 
in  solvents  to  remove  the  wax,  the  unit  was  mounted  in  a  header  designed 
to  allow  electrolytically  pointed  wire  contacts  to  be  made  to  the  base  and 
emitter  areas  of  the  transistor.  These  spring  contacts  were  made  of  1-mil 
phosphor  bronze  wire. 

ELECTRICAL    CHARACTERIZATION 

Of  the  parameters  that  characterize  the  performance  of  a  transistor, 
one  of  the  most  important  is  the  short  circuit  current  gain  (alpha)  ver- 
sus frequency.  The  measured  variation  of  a  and  q:/(1  —  a)  (short-circuit 
current  gain  in  the  grounded  emitter  circuit)  as  a  function  of  frequency 
for  a  typical  unit  is  shown  in  Fig.  1 .  For  comparison  the  same  parameters 
for  an  exceptionally  good  unit  are  shown  in  Fig.  2. 

In  order  that  the  alpha-cutoff  frequency  be  a  measure  of  the  transit 
time  of  minority  carriers  through  the  active  regions  of  the  transistor,  any 
resistance-capacity  cutoffs,  of  the  emitter  and  collector  circuits,  must  lie 
considerably  higher  than  the  measured  /„  .  In  the  emitter  circuit,  an 
external  contact  resistance  to  the  aluminum  emitter  of  the  order  of  10 


U1 

_J 

LU 

eg 

o 

lij 

Q 


•4U 

( 
30 

20 

>-( 

— , 

4.3 

MC 

UNIT  0-3    p- 

n-p 

Ge 

Ie  =  2  MA 
Vc  =-10  VOLTS 
ao=  0.982 

'     1 

s 

S.  1-a 

6  DB 
OCT/> 

PER  ^' 

VE 

■> 

^s 

1  0 

0 

-10 

l«l 

w 

> 

\ 

46 

3  M( 

1 

; 

^ 

* 

0.1  0.2         0.4   0,6        1  2  4       6     8  10  20  40     60       100        200        400  1000 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


Fig.  1  —  The  grounded  emitter  and  grounded  base  response  versus  frequency 
for  a  typical  unit. 


A  HIGH-FREQUENCY  DIFFUSED   BASE  GERMANIUM  TRANSISTOR         27 


40 


30 


10 

_l 

LU 

5   20 
o 

LJJ 

Q 


10 


o- 

^ 

« 

3.4  M 

C 

UNIT  M-2  p-r 

Ie  =  2MA 

1-p 

Ge 

N 

-—    oc 
1      \-oc 

Vc=-10  VOLTS 
OCo-  0.980 

6Db\ 
PER  A 
OCTAVE 

^N 

^'s 

oc 

i-C 

v^       540  MC 

^\ 

\ 

-10 

0.1         0.2         0.4  0.6       1  2  4       6    e  10  20  40    60     100        200       400  1000 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER     SECOND 

Fig.  2  —  The  grounded  emitter  and  grounded  base  response  versus  frequency 
for  an  exceptionally  good  unit. 

to  20  ohms  and  a  junction  transition  capacity  of  1  fx^xid  were  measured. 
The  displacement  current  which  flows  through  this  transition  capacity 
reduces  the  emitter  efficiency  and  must  be  kept  small  relative  to  the 
injected  hole  current.  With  1  milliampere  of  ciu"rent  flowing  through  the 
emitter  junction,  and  conseciuently  an  emitter  resistance  of  26  ohms, 
I  the  emitter  cutoff  for  this  transistor  was  above  6,000  mc/sec.  One  can 
now  see  that  the  emitter  area  must  be  small  and  the  current  density 
high  to  attain  a  high  emitter  cutoff  freciuency.  The  fact  that  a  low  base 
resistance  requires  a  high  level  of  doping  in  the  base  region,  and  thus  a 
high  emitter  transition  capacity,  restricts  one  to  small  areas  and  high 
current  densities. 

In  the  collector  circuit  capacities  of  0.5  to  0.8  ^l^xid  at  a  collector  volt- 
age of  — 10  volts  were  measured.  There  was  a  spreading  resistance  in  the 
collector  body  of  about  100  ohms  which  was  the  result  of  the  small 
emitter  area.  The  base  resistance  was  approximately  100  ohms.  If  the 
phase  shift  and  attenuation  due  to  the  transport  of  minority  carriers 
through  the  base  region  w^ere  small  at  the  collector  cutoff  frequency,  the 
(effective  base  resistance  would  be  decreased  by  the  factor  (1  —a).  The 
collector  cutoff  frequency  is  then  given  by 


where  Cc  =  collector  transition  capacity 

and     Re  =  collector  body  spreading  resistance. 


28  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 

However,  in  the  transistors  described  here  the  base  region  produces  the 
major  contribution  to  the  observed  alpha-cutoff  frequency  and  it  is  more 
appropriate  to  use  the  expression 


2irCcin  +  Re) 


where  n  =  base  resistance.  This  cutoff  frequency  could  be  raised  by  in- 
creasing the  collector  voltage,  but  the  allowable  power  dissipation  in  the 
mounting  determines  an  upper  limit  for  this  voltage.  It  should  b  noted 
that  an  increase  in  the  doping  of  the  collector  material  would  raise  the 
cutoff  since  the  spreading  resistance  is  inversely  proportional  to  Na  , 
while  the  junction  capacity  for  constant  collector  voltage  is  only  pro- 
portional  to  Na    . 

The  low-frequency  alpha  of  the  transistor  ranged  from  0.95  to  0.99 
with  some  exceptional  units  as  high  as  0.998.  The  factors  to  be  con- 
sidered here  are  the  emitter  efficiency  y  and  the  transport  factor  (3. 
The  transport  factor  is  dependent  upon  the  lifetime  in  the  base  region, 
the  recombination  velocity  at  the  surface  immediately  surrounding  the 
emitter,  and  the  geometry.  The  geometrical  factor  of  the  ratio  of  the 
emitter  dimensions  to  the  base  layer  thickness  is  >  10,  indicating  that 
solutions  for  a  planar  geometry  may  be  assumed.^  If  a  lifetime  in  the  base 
region  of  1  microsecond  and  a  surface  recombination  velocity  of  2,000 
cm/sec  is  assumed  a  perturbation  calculation  gives 

iS  =  0.995 

The  high  value  of  ^  obtained  with  what  is  estimated  to  be  a  low  base 
region  lifetime  and  a  high  surface  recombination  velocity  indicates  that 
the  observed  low  frecjuency  alpha  is  most  probably  limited  by  the 
emitter  injection  efficiency.  As  for  the  emitter  injection  efficiency,  within 
the  accuracy  to  which  the  impurity  concentrations  in  the  emitter  re- 
growth  layer  and  the  base  region  are  known,  together  with  the  thick- 
nesses of  these  two  regions,  the  calculated  efficiency  is  consistent  with 
the  experimentally  observed  values. 

Considerations  of  Transit  Time 

An  examination  of  what  agreement  (^xists  between  the  alpha-cutoff 
frequency  and  the  physical  measurements  of  the  base  region  involves 
the  me(;hanism  of  transport  of  minority  carriers  through  the  active 
regions  of  the  transistor.  The  "active  regions"  include  the  space  charge 


A  HIGH-FREQUENCY  DIFFUSED   BASE  GERMANIUM  TRANSISTOR         29 

region  of  the  collector  junction.  The  transit  time  through  this  region 
is  no  longer  a  negligible  factor.  A  short  calculation  will  show  that  with 
—  10  volts  on  the  collector  junction,  the  space  charger  layer  is  about 
4  X  10"^  cm  thick  and  that  the  frequency  cutoff  associated  with  trans- 
port through  this  region  is  approximately  3,000  mc/sec. 

The  remaining  problem  is  the  transport  of  minority  carriers  through 
the  base  region.  Depending  upon  the  boundary  conditions  existing  at  the 
surface  of  the  germanium  during  the  diffusion  process,  considerable 
gradients  of  the  impurity  density  in  the  surface  layer  are  possible.  How- 
ever, the  problem  of  what  boundary  conditions  existed  during  the  diffu- 
sion process  employed  in  the  fabrication  of  these  transistors  w^ill  not  be 
discussed  here  because  of  the  many  uncertainties  involved.  Some  quali- 
tative idea  is  necessary  though  of  how  electric  fields  arising  from  impurity 
gradients  may  affect  the  frequency  behavior  of  a  transistor  in  the  limit 
of  low  injection. 

If  one  assumes  a  constant  electric  field  as  would  result  from  an  ex- 
ponential impurity  gradient  in  the  base  region  of  a  transistor,  then  the 
continuity  eciuation  may  be  solved  for  the  distribution  of  minority 
carriers.*  From  the  hole  distribution  one  can  obtain  an  expression  for 
the  transport  factor  j3  and  it  has  the  form 


/3  =  e" 


r?  sinh  Z  -{-  Z  cosh  Z 


where 


1,    Ne       IqE 
^"2^^iV;  =  2^^' 

z  ^  [i^  +  ,r' 

IV' 

Ne  =  donor  density  in  base  region  at  emitter  junction 
Nc  =  donor  density  in  base  region  at  collector  junction 

E  =  electric  field  strength 
Dp  =  diffusion  constant  for  holes 

w  =  width  of  the  base  layer 


30 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 


A  plot  of  this  function  for  various  values  of  rj  is  shown  in  Fig.  3.  For  ??  =  0, 
the  above  expression  reduces  to  the  well  known  case  of  a  uniformly  doped 
base  region.  The  important  feature  to  be  noted  in  Fig.  3  is  that  relatively 
small  gradients  of  the  impurity  distribution  in  the  base  layer  can  produce 
a  considerable  enhancement  of  the  frequency  response. 

It  is  instructive  to  calculate  what  the  alpha-cutoff  f  recjuency  would  be 
for  a  base  region  with  a  uniform  distribution  of  impurity.  The  effective 
thickness  of  the  base  layer  may  be  estimated  by  decreasing  the  measured 
thickness  of  the  surface  layer  by  the  penetration  of  the  space  charge 
region  of  the  collector  and  the  depth  of  the  alloyed  emitter  structure. 
Using  a  value  for  the  diffusion  constant  of  holes  in  the  base  region  appro- 
priate to  a  donor  density  of  about  10  Vcc, 

300  mc/s  ^fa^  800  mc/s 

This  result  implies  that  the  frecjuency  enhancement  due  to  "built-in" 
fields  is  at  most  a  factor  of  two.  In  addition  it  was  observed  that  the 
alpha-cutoff  frequency  was  a  function  of  the  emitter  current  as  shown 
in  Fig.  4.  This  variation  indicates  that  at  least  intermediate  injection 


<Si 


£L 

'^     ^     77  siNhZ  +Z  coshz 
Z=(L5z5+772)'/2 

0.8 
0.6 

0.4 

'       > 

*~ 

:;^;~->i^ 

k.^ 

^ 

Nv 

^ 

N 

"\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

^ 

\ 

\ 

>v, 

0.2 

A 

\ 

\ 

K 

\ 

\ 

\ 

i 

\ 

K 

\      \ 

\ 

0.08 

- 

^ 

\— 

^ 

A 

— \ — 

v\- 

0.06 
0.04 

- 

^^ 

\ 

^, 

^ 

\ 

^ 

1\ 

4i 

r 

0.02 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

V 

0.01 

1 

1 

1 

\ 

\ 

1 

1 

> 

1 

1 

1 

1 

_L 

0.1 


0.2 


0.4      0.6  0.8    1 


6      8     10 


20 


40       60    80  100 


w2 
<^-U}  -g-  ,  (RADIANS) 


Fig.  .3  —  The  variation  of  |  i3  |  ver.sii.s  frequency  for  various  values  of  a  uniform 
drift  field  in  the  base  region. 


A  HIGH-FREQUENCY  DIFFUSED  BASE  GERMANIUM  TRANSISTOR         31 


in 

_i 

LU 

m 
o 

LU 

a 

z 


b 

n 

=7^" 

'^^-^^ 

S— 1' 

i 

f 

\ 

^                      ' 

' 

; Q       ■   ■_;;;; -t 

Fv 

Rl 

k 

-5 

UNIT  0-3  p-n-p  Ge 

o      Ie  =  2  MA 
A      Ie=0.8MA 
D      Ig=0.4MA 

\ 

k^ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

10 

Vc 

=  -K 

)  VOLTS 

1 

1 

\ 

1 

1 

1 

10 


20 


30       40      50    60       80     100  200  300     400 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


600     800   1000 


Fig.  4 
current. 


The  variation  of  the  alpha-cutoff  frequency  as  a  function  of  emitter 


levels  exist  in  the  range  of  emitter  current  shown  in  Fig.  4.  The  conclu- 
sion to  be  drawn  then  is  that  electric  fields  produced  by  impurity 
gradients  in  the  base  region  are  not  the  dominant  factor  in  the  transport 
of  minority  carriers  in  these  transistors. 

The  emitter  current  for  a  low  level  of  injection  could  not  be  deter- 
mined by  measuring  /„  versus  /«  because  the  high  input  impedance  at 
very  low  levels  was  shorted  by  the  input  capacity  of  the  header  and 
socket.  Thus  at  very  small  emitter  currents  the  measured  cutoff  fre- 
quency was  due  to  an  emitter  cutoff  and  was  roughly  proportional  to 
the  emitter  current.  At  /e  ^  1  ma  this  effect  is  small,  but  here  at  least 
intermediate  levels  of  injection  already  exist. 

A  further  attempt  to  measure  the  effect  of  any  "built-in"  fields  by 
turning  the  transistor  around  and  measuring  the  inverse  alpha  proved 
fruitless  for  two  reasons.  The  unfavorable  geometrical  factor  of  a  large 
collector  area  an  a  small  emitter  area  as  well  as  a  poor  injection  effi- 
ciency gave  an  alpha  of  only 


a 


=  0.1 


Secondly,  the  injection  efficiency  turns  out  in  this  case  to  be  proportional 
to  oT^^'^  giving  a  cutoff  freciuency  of  less  than  1  mc/sec.  The  sciuare-root 
dependence  of  the  injection  efficiency  on  freciuency  may  be  readily  seen. 
The  electron  current  injected  into  the  collector  body  may  be  expressed  as 


Je  =  qDnN 


1    -)-    iu^Te 


1/2 


where  q  =  electronic  charge 


32  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 

Dn  ^  diffusion  constant  of  electrons 

Vi  =  voltage  across  collector  junction 

Tic  =  density  of  electrons  on  the  p-type  side  of  the  collector  junction 

Te  =  lifetime  of  electrons  in  collector  body 

Le  =  diffusion  length  of  electrons  in  the  collector  body 

Since  the  inverse  cutoff  frequency  is  well  below  that  associated  with  the 
base  region,  we  may  regard  the  injected  hole  current  as  independent  of 
the  frequency  in  this  region.  The  injection  efficiency  is  low  so  that 

7  ;^  ^  «  1 

J  e 


Thus  at  a  frequency  where 


then 


cor, 


»1 


I 


-1/2 

An  interesting  feature  of  these  transistors  was  the  very  high  current 
densities  at  which  the  emitter  could  be  operated  without  appreciable  loss 
of  injection  efficiency.  Fig.  5  shows  the  transmission  of  a  50  millimicro- 
second pulse  up  to  currents  of  18  milliamperes  which  corresponds  to  a 
current  density  of  1800  amperes/cm".  The  injection  efficiency  should 
remain  high  as  long  as  the  electron  density  at  the  emitter  edge  of  the 
base  region  remains  small  compared  to  the  acceptor  density  in  the 
emitter  regrowth  layer.  When  high  injection  levels  are  reached  the  in- 
jected hole  density  at  the  emitter  greatly  exceeds  the  donor  density  in  th(> 
base  region.  In  order  to  preserve  charge  neutrality  then 

p  ^  n 

where  p  =  hole  density 

n  =  electron  density 

As  the  inject(Hl  hole  density  is  raised  still  further  the  electron  density 
will  eventually  become  comparable  to  the  acceptor  density  in  the 
emitter  regrowth  layer.  Tlie  density  of  acceptors  in  the  emitter  regrowth 


A  HIGH-FREQUENCY  DIFFUSED  BASE  GERMANIUM  TRANSISTOR         33 


30  46  60  75  90 

TIME     IN     MILLIMICROSECONDS 


>" 


0 
9 

"^ 

V 

4 

'^ 

\^ 

/ 

18 

V 

/ 

-15 


15 


30  45  60  75  90 

TIME     IN     MILLIMICROSECONDS 


105 


120 


136 


Fig.  5  —  Transmission  of  a  50  millimicrosecond  pulse  at  emitter  currents  up 
to  18  ma  by  a  typical  unit.  (Courtesy  of  F.  K.  Bowers). 

region  is  of  the  order  of 

and  this  is  to  be  compared  with  injected  hole  density  at  the  base  region 
iside  of  the  emitter  junction.  The  relation  between  the  injected  hole 
density  and  the  current  density  may  be  approximated  by^ 


J. 


w 


where  pi  =  hole  density  at  emitter  side  of  base  region 

w  =  width  of  base  region 

jA  short  calculation  indicates  that  the  emitter  efficiency  should  remain 
'high  at  a  current  density  of  an  order  of  magnitude  higher  than  1,800 
|amp/cm'.  The  measurements  were  not  carried  to  higher  current  densities 
jbecause  the  voltage  drop  across  the  spreading  resistance  in  the  collector 
was  producing  saturation  of  the  collector  junction. 

CONCLUSIONS 

Impurity  diffusion  is  an  extremely  powerful  tool  for  the  fabrication 
of  high  frequency  transistors.  Moreover,  of  the  50-odd  transistors  which 


34  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JANUARY   1956 

were  made  in  the  laboratory,  the  characteristics  were  remarkably  uni- 
form considering  the  ^•ariations  usually  encountered  at  such  a  stage  of 
development.  It  appears  that  diffusion  process  is  sufficiently  controllable 
that  the  thickness  of  the  base  region  can  be  reduced  to  half  that  of  the 
units  described  here.  Therefore,  with  no  change  in  the  other  design 
parameters,  outside  of  perhaps  a  different  mounting,  units  with  a  1000 
mc/s  cutoff  frequency  should  be  possible. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The  author  wishes  to  acknowledge  the  help  of  P.  W.  Foy  and  W.  Wieg- 
mann  who  aided  in  the  construction  of  the  transistors,  D.  E.  Thomas  who 
designed  the  electrical  equipment  needed  to  characterize  these  units, 
and  J.  Klein  who  helped  with  the  electrical  measurements.  The  numerical 
evaluation  of  alpha  for  drift  fields  was  done  by  Lillian  Lee  whose  as- 
sistance is  gratefully  acknowledged. 

REFERENCES 

1.  C.  S.  Fuller,  Phys.  Rev.,  86,  pp.  136-137,  1952. 

2.  J.  Saby  and  W.  C.  Dunlap,  Jr.,  Phys.  Rev.,  90,  p.  630,  1953. 

3.  W.  Shocklej',  private  communication. 

4.  H.  Kromer,  Archiv.  der  Elek.  tlbertragung,  8,  No.  5,  pp.  223-228,  1954. 

5.  R.  A.  Logan  and  M.  Schwartz,  Phys.  Rev.,  96,  p.  46,  1954 

6.  L.  B.  Valdes,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  42,  pp.  420-427,  1954. 

7.  W.  L.  Bond  and  F.  M.  Smits,  to  be  published. 

8.  E.  S.  Rittner,  Pnys.  Rev.,  94,  p.  1161,  1954. 

9.  W.  M.  Webster,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  42,  p.  914,  1954. 

10.  J.  M.  Early,  B.S.T.J.,  33,  pp.  517-533,  1954. 


Waveguide  Investigations  with 
Millimicrosecond  Pulses 

By  A.  C.  BECK 

(Manuscript  received  October  11,  1955) 

Pulse  techniques  have  been  used  for  many  waveguide  testing  'puryoses. 
The  importance  of  increased  resolution  hy  means  of  short  pulses  has  led  to 
the  development  of  equipment  to  generate,  receive  and  display  pidses  about 
5  or  6  millimicroseconds  lo7ig.  The  equipment  is  briefly  described  and  its 
resolution  and  measuring  range  are  discussed.  Domi7ia7it  mode  waveguide 
and  antenna  tests  are  described,  and  illustrated.  Applications  to  midtimode 
waveguides  are  then  considered.  Mode  separation,  delay  distortion  and  its 
equalization,  and  mode  conversion  are  discussed,  and  examples  are  given. 
The  resolution  obtained  with  this  equipment  provides  information  that  is 
difficult  to  get  by  any  other  means,  and  its  use  has  proved  to  be  very  helpfid 
in  ivaveguide  investigations. 

CONTENTS 

1 .  Introduction 35 

2.  Pulse  Generation 36 

3.  Receiver  and  Indicator 41 

4.  Resolution  and  Measuring  Range 42 

5.  Dominant  Mode  Waveguide  Tests 43 

6.  Testing  Antenna  Installations 45 

7.  Separation  of  Modes  on  a  Time  Basis 48 

8.  Delay  Distortion 52 

9.  Delay  Distortion  Ecjualization 54 

10.  Measuring  Mode  Conversion  from  Isolated  Sources 57 

11.  Measuring  Distril)uted  Mode  Conversion  in  1  ong  Waveguides 61 

12.  Concluding  Remarks 65 

1.    INTRODUCTION 

Pulse  testing  techniques  have  been  employed  to  advantage  in  wave- 
guide investigations  in  numerous  ways.  The  importance  of  better  resolu- 
tion through  the  use  of  short  pulses  has  always  been  apparent  and,  from 
the  first,  eciuipment  was  employed  which  used  as  short  a  pulse  as  pos- 
sible. Radar-type  apparatus  using  magnetrons  and  a  pulse  width  of 
about  one-tenth  microsecond  has  seen  considerable  use  in  waveguide 
research,  and  many  of  the  results  have  been  published.'  •  - 

35 


36  THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

To  improve  the  resolution,  work  was  initiated  some  time  ago  by  S.  E. 
Miller  to  obtain  measuring  equipment  which  would  operate  with  much 
shorter  pulses.  As  a  result,  pulses  about  5  or  6  millimicroseconds  long 
became  available  at  a  frequency  of  9,000  mc.  In  a  pulse  of  this  length 
there  are  less  than  100  cycles  of  radio  frequency  energy,  and  the  signal 
occupies  less  than  ten  feet  of  path  length  in  the  transmission  medium. 
The  RF  bandwidth  required  is  about  500  mc.  In  order  to  obtain  such 
bandwidths,  traveling  wave  tubes  were  developed  by  J.  R.  Pierce  and 
members  of  the  Electronics  Research  Department  of  the  Laboratories. 
The  completed  amplifiers  were  designed  by  W.  W.  Mumford.  N.  J. 
Pierce,  R.  W.  Dawson  and  J.  W.  Bell  assisted  in  the  design  and  construc- 
tion phases,  and  G.  D.  Mandeville  has  been  closely  associated  in  all  of 
this  work. 

2.    PULSE    GENERATION 


These  millimicrosecond  pulses  have  been  produced  by  two  different 
types  of  generators.  In  the  first  equipment,  a  regenerative  pulse  gener- 
ator of  the  type  suggested  by  C.  C.  Cutler  of  the  Laboratories  was  used.^ 
This  was  a  very  useful  device,  although  somewhat  complicated  and  hard 
to  keep  in  adjustment.  A  brief  description  of  it  will  permit  comparisons 
with  a  simpler  generator  which  was  developed  a  little  later. 

A  block  diagram  of  the  regenerative  pulse  generator  is  shown  in  Fig.  1. 
The  fundamental  part  of  the  system  is  the  feedback  loop  drawn  with 
heavy  lines  in  the  lower  central  part  of  the  figure.  This  includes  a  travel- 
ing wave  amplifier,  a  waveguide  delay  line  about  sixty  feet  long,  a  crystal 
expander,  a  band-pass  filter,  and  an  attenuator.  This  combination  forms 
an  oscillator  which  produces  very  short  pulses  of  microwave  energy. 
Between  pulses,  the  expander  makes  the  feedback  loop  loss  too  high  for 
oscillation.  Each  time  the  pulse  circulates  around  the  loop  it  tends  to 
shorten,  due  to  the  greater  amplification  of  its  narrower  upper  part 
caused  by  the  expander  action,  until  it  uses  the  entire  available  band 
width.  A  500-mc  gaussian  band-pass  filter  is  used  in  the  feedback  loop,^ 
of  this  generator  to  determine  the  final  bandwidth.  An  automatic  gain 
control  operates  with  the  expander  to  limit  the  pulse  amplitude,  thus 
preventing  amplifier  compression  from  reducing  the  available  expansion. 

To  get  enough  separation  between  outgoing  pulses  for  reflected  pulse 
measurements  with  waveguides,  the  repetition  rate  would  need  to  be 
too  low  for  a  practical  delay  fine  length  in  the  loop.  Therefore  a  r2.8-mc 
fundamental  rate  was  chosen,  and  a  gated  traveling  wave  {\\\)v  ampfifier 
was  used  to  reduce  it  to  a  100-kc  rate  at  the  output.  This  amplifier  is 
kept  in  a  cutoff  condition  for  127  pulses,  and  then  a  gate  pulse  restores 


I 


i 


t 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH    MILLIMIf'ROSECOND    PULSES 


37 


it  to  the  normal  amplifying  condition  for  fifty  millimicroseconds,  during 
which  time  the  128th  pulse  is  passed  on  to  the  output  of  the  generator 
as  shown  on  Fig.  1. 

The  synchronizing  system  is  also  shown  on  Fig.  1.  A  100-kc  quartz 
crystal  controlled  oscillator  with  three  cathode  follower  outputs  is  the 
basis  of  the  system.  One  output  goes  through  a  seven  stage  multiplier 
to  get  a  12.8-mc  signal,  which  is  used  to  control  a  pulser  for  synchroniz- 
ing the  circulating  loop.  Another  output  controls  the  gate  pulser  for  the 
output  traveling  wave  amplifier.  Accurate  timing  of  the  gate  pulse  is 
obtained  by  adding  the  12.8-mc  pulses  through  a  buffer  amplifier  to  the 
gate  pulser.  The  third  output  synchronizes  the  indicator  oscilloscope 
sweep  to  give  a  steady  pattern  on  the  screen. 

Although  this  equipment  was  fairly  satisfactory  and  served  for  many 


OSCILLATOR 

AND    CATHODE 

FOLLOWERS 

100  KC 


I  1 


MULTIPLIER 

100 KC  TO 

12.8  MC 


SYNC 

PULSER 

0.02  A  SEC 

12.8  MC 


500  MC 

BANDPASS 

FILTER 


GATE 

PULSER 

0.05  USEC 

100  KC 


A 


BUFFER 
AMPLIFIER 


"1 


CRYSTAL 
EXPANDER 


U 


AGC   I 


WAVEGUIDE 

DELAY 

LINE 


TW  TUBE 


■Y^ 


MILLI/iSEC/ 
9000  MC/' 
PULSES 
12.8  MC    RATE 


MlLLIyUSEC 

9000  MC 

PULSES 

100  KC    RATE 


GATED 
TW   TUBE 


SYNC   SIGNAL  TO 
INDICATOR  SCOPE 


Fig.  1  —  Block  diagram  of  the  regenerative  pulse  generator. 


38  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

testing  purposes,  it  was  rather  complex  and  there  were  some  problems 
in  its  construction  and  use.  It  was  difficult  to  obtain  suitable  microwave 
crystals  to  match  the  waveguide  at  low  levels  in  the  expander.  Tliis 
would  make  it  even  more  difficult  to  build  this  type  of  pulse  generator 
for  higher  frequency  ranges.  Stability  also  proved  to  be  a  problem.  The 
frequency  multiplier  had  to  be  very  well  constructed  to  avoid  phase 
shift  due  to  drifting.  The  gate  pulser  also  required  care  in  design  and 
construction  in  order  to  get  a  stable  and  flat  output  pulse.  It  was  some- 
what troublesome  to  keep  the  gain  adjusted  for  proper  operation,  and 
the  gate  pulse  time  adjustment  required  some  attention.  The  pulse 
frequency  could  not  be  changed.  For  these  reasons,  and  in  order  to  get 
a  smaller,  lighter  and  less  complicated  pulse  generator,  work  was  carried 
out  to  produce  pulses  of  about  the  same  length  by  a  simpler  method. 

If  the  gated  output  amplifier  of  Fig.  1  were  to  have  a  CW  instead  of  a 
pulsed  input,  a  pulse  of  microwave  energy  would  nevertheless  appear  at 
the  output  because  of  the  presence  of  the  gating  pulse.  This  gating  pulse 
is  applied  to  the  beam  forming  electrode  of  the  tube  to  obtain  the  gating 
action.  If  the  beam  forming  electrode  could  be  pulsed  from  cutoff  to  its 
normal  operating  potential  for  a  very  short  time,  very  short  pulses  of 
output  energy  could  be  obtained  from  a  continuous  input  signal.  How- 
ever, it  is  difficult  to  obtain  millimicrosecond  video  gating  pulses  of  suf- 
ficient amplitude  for  this  purpose  at  a  100-kc  repetition  rate. 

A  traveling-wave  tube  amplifies  normally  only  when  the  helix  is 
within  a  small  voltage  range  around  its  rated  dc  operating  value.  For 
voltages  either  above  or  below  this  range,  the  tube  is  cut  off.  When  the 
helix  voltage  is  raised  through  this  range  into  the  cutoff  region  beyond 
it,  and  then  brought  back  again,  two  pulses  are  obtained,  one  during  a 
small  part  of  the  rise  time  and  the  other  during  a  small  part  of  the  return 
time.  If  the  rise  and  fall  times  are  steep,  very  short  pulses  can  be 
obtained.  Fig.  2  shows  the  pulse  envelopes  photographed  from  the 
indicator  scope  screen  when  this  is  done.  For  the  top  trace,  the  helix  was 
biased  300  volts  negatively  from  its  normal  operating  potential,  then 
pulsed  to  its  correct  operating  range  for  about  80  millimicroseconds, 
during  which  time  normal  amplification  of  the  CW  input  signal  was  ob- 
tained. The  effect  of  further  increasing  the  helix  video  pulse  amplitude 
in  the  positive  direction  is  shown  by  the  succeeding  lower  traces.  The 
envelope  dips  in  the  middle,  then  two  separated  pulses  remain  —  one 
during  a  part  of  the  rise  time  and  one  during  a  part  of  the  fall  time  of 
helix  voltage.  The  pulses  shown  on  the  bottom  trace  have  shortened  to 
about  six  millimicroseconds  in  length.  The  helix  pulse  had  a  positive 
amplitude  of  about  500  volts  for  this  trace. 


1 


WAVEGUIDE    TESTIXG    WITH    MILUMICROSErOXD    PULSES 


39 


Since  only  one  of  these  pulses  can  be  used  to  get  the  desired  repetition 
rate,  it  is  necessary  to  eliminate  the  other  pulse.  This  is  done  in  a  simi- 
lar manner  to  that  used  for  gating  out  the  undesired  pulses  in  the  re- 
generative pulse  generator.  However,  it  is  not  necessary  to  use  another 
amplifier,  as  was  required  there,  since  the  same  tube  can  be  used  for 
this  purpose,  as  well  as  for  producing  the  microwave  pulses.  Its  beam 
forming  electrode  is  biased  negatively  about  250  volts  with  respect  to 
the  cathode,  and  then  is  pulsed  to  the  normal  operating  potential  for 
about  50  millimicroseconds  during  the  time  of  the  first  short  pulse  ob- 
tained by  gating  the  helix.  Thus,  the  beam  forming  electrode  potential 
has  been  returned  to  the  cutoff  value  during  the  second  helix  pulse, 
which  is  therefore  eliminated. 
Il  A  block  diagram  of  the  resulting  double-gated  pulse  generator  is 
shown  in  Fig.  3.  Comparison  with  Fig.  1  shows  that  it  is  simpler 
than  the  regenerative  pulse  generator,  and  it  has  also  proved  more 
satisfactory  in  operation.  It  can  be  used  at  any  frequency  where  a  sig- 
nal source  and  a  traveling-wave  amplifier  are  available,  and  the  pulse 


Fig.  2  —  Envelopes  of  microwave  pulses  at  the  output  of  a  traveling  wave  am- 
lifier  with  continuous  wave  input  and  helix  gating.  The  gating  voltage  is  higher 
or  the  lower  traces. 


40 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


frequency  can  be  set  anywhere  within  the  bandwidth  of  the  travehng- 
wave  ampUfier  by  tuning  the  klystron  oscillator. 

The  pulse  center  frequency  is  shifted  from  that  of  the  klystron  os- 
cillator frequency  by  this  helix  gating  process.  An  over-simphfied  but 
helpful  explanation  of  this  effect  can  be  obtained  by  considering  that 
the  microwave  signal  voltage  on  the  helix  causes  a  bunching  of  the  elec- 
tron stream.  This^  bunching  has  the  same  periodicity  as  the  microwave 
signal  voltage  when  the  dc  helix  potential  is  held  constant.  However, 
since  the  helix  voltage  is  continuously  increased  in  the  positive  direction 
during  the  time  of  the  first  pulse,  the  average  velocity  of  the  last  bunches 
of  electrons  becomes  higher  than  that  of  the  earlier  bunches  in  the  pulse, 
because  the  later  electrons  come  along  at  the  time  of  higher  positive 
helix  voltage.  This  tends  to  shorten  the  total  length  of  the  series  of 
bunches,  resulting  in  a  shorter  w^avelength  at  the  output  end  of  the 
helix  and  therefore  a  higher  output  microwave  frequency.  On  the  second 
pulse,  obtained  when  the  helix  voltage  returns  toward  zero,  the  process 
is  reversed,  the  bunching  is  stretched  out,  and  the  frequency  is  de- 
creased. This  second  pulse  is,  however,  gated  out  in  this  arrangement 
by  the  beam-forming  electrode  pulsing  voltage.  The  result  for  this 
particular  tube  and  pulse  length  is  an  effective  output  frequency  ap- 
proximately 150  mc  higher  than  the  oscillator  frequency,  but  this  figure 
is  not  constant  over  the  range  of  pulse  frequencies  available  within  the 
amplifier  bandwidth. 


OSCILLATOR   AND 

CATHODE    FOLLOWERS 

100  KC 


KLYSTRON 

OSCILLATOR 

9000  MC 


BEAM    FORMING 

ELECTRODE 

PULSER 


HELIX 
PULSER 


^ 


PULSED 
TW  TUBE 


MILLI/aSEC 
9000  MC 
PULSES 


SYNC    SIGNAL  TO 
INDICATOR   SCOPE 


Fig.  3  —  Block  diugram  of  the  double-gated  traveling  wave  tube  millimicro- 
second pulse  generator. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


41 


3.   RECEIVER  AND  INDICATOR 


The  receiving  equipment  is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  It  uses  two  traveUng- 
wave  amplifiers  in  cascade.  A  wide  band  detector  and  a  video  amplifier 
then  follow,  and  the  signal  envelope  is  displayed  by  connecting  it  to 
the  vertical  deflecting  plates  of  a  5  XP  type  oscilloscope  tube.  The 
video  amplifier  now  consists  of  two  Hewlett  Packard  wide  band  dis- 
tributed amplifiers,  having  a  baseband  width  of  about  175  mc.  The 
second  one  of  these  has  been  modified  to  give  a  higher  output  voltage. 
The  sweep  circuits  for  this  oscilloscope  have  been  built  especially  for 
this  use,  and  produce  a  sweep  speed  in  the  order  of  6  feet  per  micro- 
second. An  intensity  pulser  is  used  to  eliminate  the  return  trace.  These 
parts  of  the  system  are  controlled  by  a  synchronizing  output  from  the 
pulse  generator  100-kc  oscillator.  A  precision  phase  shifter  is  used  at 
the  receiver  for  the  same  purpose  that  a  range  unit  is  employed  in  radar 
systems.  This  has  a  dial,  calibrated  in  millimicroseconds,  which  moves 
the  position  of  a  pulse  appearing  on  the  scope  and  makes  accurate 
measurement  of  pulse  delay  time  possible. 

Fig.  4  also  shows  the  appearance  of  the  pulses  obtained  with  this 
equipment.  The  pulse  on  the  left-hand  side  of  this  trace  came  from  the 


PULSE 

SIGNAL 

9000  MC 


SYNC 

SIGNAL 
100  KC 


TW   TUBES 


VIDEO 
AMPLIFIER 


INTENSITY 

PULSER 

0.05/USEC 

100  KC 


PRECISION 

PHASE 

SHIFTER 


SWEEP 
GENERATOR 


DOUBLE-GATED 
PULSE 


REGENERATIVE 
PULSE 


Fig.  4  —  Block  diagram  of  millimicrosecond  pulse  receiver  and  indicator.  The 
idicator  trace  photograph  shows  pulses  from  each  type  of  generator. 


42 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


newer  double-gated  pulse  generator,  while  the  pulse  on  the  right  was 
produced  by  the  regenerative  pulse  generator.  It  can  be  seen  that  they 
appear  to  have  about  the  same  pulse  width  and  shape.  This  is  partly 
due  to  the  fact  that  the  video  amplifier  bandwidth  is  not  c^uite  adequate 
to  show  the  actual  shape,  since  in  both  cases  the  pulses  are  slightly 
shorter  than  can  be  correctly  reproduced  through  this  amplifier.  The 
ripples  on  the  base  line  following  the  pulses  are  also  due  to  the  video 
amplifier  characteristics  when  used  with  such  short  pulses. 

4.    RESOLUTION  AND  MEASURING  RANGE 

Fig.  5  shows  a  piece  of  equipment  which  was  placed  between  the  pulse 
generator  and  the  receiver  to  show  the  resolution  which  can  be  obtained. 
This  waveguide  hybrid  junction  has  its  branch  marked  1  connected  to 
the  pulse  generator  and  branch  3  connected  to  the  receiver.  If  the  two 
side  branches  marked  2  and  4  were  terminated,  substantially  no  energy 
would  be  transmitted  from  the  pulser  straight  through  to  the  receiver. 
However,  a  short  circuit  placed  on  either  side  branch  will  send  energy 
through  the  system  to  the  receiver.  Two  short  circuits  were  so  placed 
that  the  one  on  branch  4  was  4  feet  farther  away  from  the  hybiid  junc- 
tion than  the  one  on  branch  2.  The  pulse  appearing  first  is  produced  l)y 
a  signal  traveling  from  the  pulse  generator  to  the  short  circuit  on  branch 
2  and  then  through  to  the  receiver,  as  shown  by  the  path  drawn  with 
short  dashes.  A  second  pulse  is  produced  by  the  signal  which  travels 


BRANCH 
2 


SHORT 
CIRCUIT 


BRANCH 


FROM 
PULSER 


TO 
RECEIVER 


FIRST   PULSE    PATH 
SECOND    PULSE    PATH 


SHORT 

CIRCUIT 


DOUBLE-GATED    PULSES 


REGENERATIVE    PULSES 


Fig.  5  —  W;iv(!guicle  hyhriil  ciicuil-  uscxl  to  demonstrate  resululion  of  milli- 
microsecond pulses.  Trace  photographs  of  pulses  from  each  type  of  generator  ;iie 
shown. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


43 


TO  RECEIVER 
\ 


TE°    IN   3"DIAM  copper  GUIDE    (ISO  FT   LONG) 


Fig.  6  —  Waveguide  arrangement  and  oscilloscope  trace  photos  showing  pres- 
ence and  location  of  defective  joint.  The  dominant  mode  (TEn)  was  used  with  its 
polarization  changed  90  degrees  for  the  two  trace  photos. 

from  the  pulse  generator  through  branch  4  to  the  short  circuit  and  then 
to  the  receiver  as  shown  by  the  long  dashed  line.  This  pulse  has  traveled 
8  feet  farther  in  the  waveguide  than  the  first  pulse.  This  would  be  equiva- 
lent to  seeing  separate  radar  echoes  from  two  targets  about  4  feet  apart. 
Resolution  tests  made  in  this  way  \vith  the  pulses  from  the  regenerative 
pulse  generator,  and  from  the  double-gated  pulse  generator,  are  shown 
on  Fig.  5.  With  our  video  amplifier  and  viewing  equipment,  there  is 
no  appreciable  difference  in  the  resolution  obtained  using  either  type 
of  pulse  generator. 

The  measuring  range  is  determined  by  the  power  output  of  the  gated 
amplifier  at  saturation  and  by  the  noise  figure  of  the  first  tube  in  the 
receiver.  In  this  equipment  the  saturation  level  is  about  1  watt,  and  the 
noise  figure  of  the  first  receiver  tube  is  rather  poor.  As  a  result,  received 
pulses  about  70  db  below  the  outgoing  pulse  can  be  observed,  which  is 
I  enough  range  for  many  measurement  purposes. 


5.   DOMINANT  MODE  WAVEGUIDE  TESTS 

Fig.  6  shows  the  use  of  this  equipment  to  test  3'^  round  waveguides 
such  as  those  installed  between  radio  repeater  equipment  and  an  an- 
tenna. This  particular  150-foot  line  had  very  good  soldered  joints  and  was 
thought  to  be  electrically  very  smooth.  The  signal  is  sent  in  through  a 
transducer  to  produce  the  dominant  TEn  mode.  The  receiver  is  con- 
nected through  a  directional  coupler  on  the  sending  end  to  look  for  any 


44  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


Fig.  7  —  Defective  joint  caused  by  imperfect  soldering  which  gave  the  reflec- 
tion shown  on  Fig.  6. 

reflections  from  imperfections  in  the  line.  The  overloaded  signal  at  the 
left  of  the  oscilloscope  trace  is  produced  by  leakage  directly  through 
the  directional  coupler.  The  overloaded  signal  on  the  other  end  of  this 
trace  is  produced  by  the  reflection  from  the  short  circuit  piston  at  the 
far  end  of  the  waveguide.  The  signal  between  these  two,  which  is  about 
45  db  down  from  the  input  signal,  is  produced  by  an  imperfect  joint 
in  the  waveguide.  The  signal  polarization  was  oriented  so  that  a  maxi- 
mum reflection  was  obtained  in  the  case  of  the  lower  trace.  In  the 
other  trace,  the  polarization  was  changed  by  90°.  It  is  seen  that  this 
particular  joint  produces  a  stronger  reflection  for  one  polarization  than 
for  the  other.  By  use  of  the  precision  phase  shifter  in  the  receiver  the 
exact  location  of  this  defect  was  found  and  the  particular  joint  that  was 
at  fault  was  sawed  out.  Fig.  7  shows  this  joint  after  the  pipe  had  been 
cut  in  half  through  the  middle.  The  guide  is  quite  smooth  on  the  inside 
in  spite  of  the  discoloration  of  some  solder  that  is  shown  here,  but  on 
the  left-hand  side  of  the  illustration  the  open  crack  is  seen  where  the 
solder  did  not  run  in  properly.  This  causes  the  reflected  pulse  that  shows 
on  the  trace.  The  fact  that  this  crack  is  less  than  a  semi-circumference 
in  length  causes  the  echo  to  be  stronger  for  one  polarization  than  for  the 
other. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING    WITH    MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


45 


Fig.  8  shows  the  same  test  for  a  3"  diameter  ahiminum  waveguide 
250  feet  long.  This  line  was  mounted  horizontally  in  the  test  building 
with  compression  couplings  used  at  the  joints.  The  line  expanded  on 
warm  days  hut  the  friction  of  the  mounting  supports  was  so  great  that 
it  pulled  open  at  some  of  the  joints  when  the  temperature  returned  to 
normal.  These  open  joints  produced  reflected  pulses  from  40  to  50  db 
down,  which  are  shown  here.  They  come  at  intervals  equal  to  the  length 
of  one  section  of  pipe,  about  12  feet.  Some  of  these  show  polarization 
effects  where  the  crack  was  more  open  on  one  side  than  on  the  other, 
but  others  are  almost  independent  of  polarization.  These  two  photo- 
graphs of  the  trace  were  taken  with  the  polarization  changed  90°. 

Fig.  9  shows  the  same  test  for  a  3"  diameter  galvanized  iron  wave- 
guide. This  line  had  shown  fairly  high  loss  using  CW  for  measure- 
ments. The  existence  of  a  great  many  echoes  from  random  distances 
indicates  a  rough  interior  finish  in  the  waveguide.  Fig.  10  shows  the 
kind  of  inperfections  in  the  zinc  coating  used  for  galvanizing  which 
caused  these  reflections. 


6.    TESTING  ANTENNA  INSTALLATIONS 

The  use  of  this  equipment  in  testing  waveguide  and  antenna  installa- 
tions for  microwave  radio  repeater  systems  is  shown  in  Fig.  11.  This 
particular  work  was  done  in  cooperation  wdth  A.  B.  Crawford's  antenna 
research  group  at  Holmdel,  who  designed  the  antenna  system.  A  direc- 
tional coupler  was  used  to  observe  energy  reflections  from  the  system 
under  test.  In  this  installation  a  3"  diameter  round  guide  carrying  the 
TEu  mode  was  used  to  feed  the  antenna.  Two  different  waveguide 


TE,,    IN   3"D1AM   aluminum  GUIDE  (250   FT   LONG) 


Fig.  8  —  Reflections  from  several  defective  joints  in  a  dominant  (TEn)  mode 
waveguide.  The  two  trace  photos  are  for  polarizations  differing  by  90  degrees. 


46 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


TO  RECEIVER  ^n 


^— a^IS^rv^ 


i— ^ 


TE 


■^-^Bi 


21 


I 


10 


TE,°  IN   3"  DIAM    GALVANIZED  IRON  GUIDE  (250  FT  LONG) 


Fig.  9  ■ —  Multiple  reflections  from  a  dominant  (TEn)  mode  waveguide  with  a 
rough  inside  surface.  The  two  trace  photos  are  for  polarizations  differing  by  90    I 
degrees. 

joints  are  shown  here.  In  addition,  a  study  was  being  made  of  the  re- 
turn loss  of  the  transition  piece  at  the  throat  of  the  antenna  which  • 
connected  the  3"  waveguide  to  the  square  section  of  the  horn.  The  I 
waveguide  sections  are  about  10  feet  long.  The  overloaded  pulse  at  the 
left  on  the  traces  is  the  leakage  through  the  directional  coupler.  The 


Fig.  10  —  Rough  inside  surface  of  a  galvanized  iron  waveguide  which  produced 
the  reflections  shown  on  Fig.  9. 


I 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


47 


other  echoes  are  associated  with  the  parts  of  the  system  from  which 
they  came  by  the  dashed  Hues  and  arrows  on  the  figure.  A  clamped 
joint  in  the  line  gave  the  reflection  shown  next  following  the  initial 
overloaded  pulse.  A  well  made  threaded  coupling  in  which  the  ends  of 
the  pipe  butted  squarel,y  is  seen  to  have  a  very  much  lower  reflection, 
scarcely  observable  on  this  trace.  Since  there  is  ahvays  reflection  from 
the  mouth  and  upper  reflector  parts  of  this  kind  of  antenna,  it  is  not 
possible  to  measure  a  throat  transition  piece  alone  by  conventional  CW 
methods,  as  the  total  reflected  power  from  the  system  is  measured. 
Here,  use  of  the  resolution  of  this  short  pulse  equipment  completely 
separated  the  reflection  of  the  transition  piece  from  all  other  reflections 
and  made  a  measurement  of  its  performance  possible.  In  this  particular 
case,  the  reflection  from  the  transition  is  more  than  50  db  down  from 
the  incident  signal  which  represents  very  good  design.  As  can  be  seen, 


OPEN   APERTURE 


FIBERGLASS  COVER 
OVER  APERTURE 

REFLECTION    APPEARS 
-^TO   COME   FROM   16  FT 
N    FRONT  OF  HORN    MOUTH 


DIRECTIONAL       TRANSDUCER     CLAMPED      THREADED       ROUND-TO 
COUPLER  JOINT  COUPLING         SQUARE 

TRANSITION 

Fig.  11  —  Waveguide  and  antenna  arrangement  with  trace  photos  showing  re- 
flections from  joints,  transition  section,  and  cover. 


48  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

the  reflection  from  the  parabohc  reflector  and  mouth  is  also  finite  low, 
and  this  characterizes  a  good  antenna  installation. 

The  extra  reflected  pulse  on  the  right  of  the  lower  trace  on  Fig.  11 
appeared  when  a  fiberglas  weatherproof  cover  was  installed  over  the 
open  mouth  of  the  horn.  This  cover  by  itself  would  normally  produce  a 
troublesome  reflection.  However,  in  this  antenna,  it  is  a  continuation  of 
one  of  the  side  walls  of  the  horn.  Consequently,  outgoing  signals  strike 
it  at  an  oblique  angle.  Reflected  energy  from  it  is  not  focused  by  the 
parabolic  section  back  at  the  waveguide,  so  the  overall  reflected  power 
in  the  waveguide  was  found  to  be  rather  low.  However,  measuring  it 
with  this  equipment,  we  found  that  an  extra  reflection  appeared  to 
come  from  a  point  16  feet  out  in  front  of  the  mouth  of  the  horn  when  the 
cover  was  in  place.  This  is  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that  energy  re- 
flected obliquely  from  this  cover  bounces  back  and  forth  inside  the 
horn  before  getting  back  into  the  waveguide,  thus  traveling  the  extra 
distance  that  makes  the  measurement  seem  to  show  that  it  comes  from 
16  feet  out  in  front. 

7.    SEPARATION  OF  MODES  ON  A  TIME  BASIS 

If  a  pulse  of  energy  is  introduced  into  a  moderate  length  of  round 
waveguide  to  excite  a  number  of  modes  which  travel  with  different 
group  velocities,  and  then  observed  farther  along  the  line,  or  reflected 
from  a  piston  at  the  end  and  observed  at  the  beginning,  separate  pulses 
will  be  seen  corresponding  to  each  mode  that  is  sent.  This  is  illustrated 


!  t    r 

t     t 

TE„   TMo,TE2, 

TM„         TE3, 

(TEoi) 

^NOT  EXCITED 

TO  RECEIVER 

=^ 

^-^ 

=^^ 

t 

;ft 

t 

TMj, 

TE4I  TE,2 

TM02 

TM3,  AND 

TE5,  TOO 

WEAK  TO 

SHOW 

TE, 


•^^  " 


PROBE  3   DIAM   ROUND  GUIDE 

COUPLING  (WILL  SUPPORT  12  MODES) 


Fig.  12  —  Arrangement  for  showing  mode  separation  on  a  time  basis  in  a  multi- 
mode  waveguide.  The  pulses  in  the  trace  ])]io(o  have  all  traveled  to  the  iiisloii  and 
back.  The  earlier  outgoing  pulse  due  to  direelional  coupler  unbalance  is  not  shown. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


49 


in  Fig.  12.  In  this  arrangement  energy  was  sent  into  the  round  line  from 
a  probe  inserted  in  the  side  of  the  guide.  This  couples  to  all  of  the  12 
modes  which  can  be  supported,  with  the  exception  of  the  TEoi  circular 
electric  mode.  The  sending  end  of  the  round  guide  was  terminated.  A 
directional  coupler  is  connected  to  the  sending  probe  so  that  the  return 
from  the  piston  at  the  far  end  can  be  observed  on  the  receiver.  Because 
of  the  different  time  that  each  mode  takes  to  travel  one  round  trip  in 
this  waveguide,  which  was  258  feet  long,  separate  pulses  are  seen  for 
each  mode.  The  pulses  in  this  figure  have  been  marked  to  show  which 
mode  is  being  received. 

The  time  of  each  pulse  referred  to  the  outgoing  pulse  was  measured 
and  found  to  check  very  well  with  the  calculated  time.  The  formula  for 
the  time  of  transit  in  the  waveguide  for  any  mode  is: 


T  = 


0.98322V'1  -  VnJ 


[where     T  =  time  in  millimicroseconds 

L  =  length  of  pulse  travel  in  feet 

Vnm    ^^    A /Ac 

X   =  operating  wavelength  in  air 

Ac  =  cutoff  wavelength  of  guide  for  the  mode  involved. 

[  Table  I  —  Calculated  and  Measured  Value  of  Time  for  One 

Round  Trip 


Time  in  Millimicroseconds 

Mode  Designation 

Calculated 

Measured 

1 

TEn 

545 

545 

2 

TMoi 

561 

561 

3 

TE,i 

587 

587 

4 

TMn 

634 

634 

5 

TEoi 

634 

. 

6 

TE31 

665 

665 

7 

TM21 

795 

793 

8 

TE4: 

835 

838 

9 

TE12 

838 



10 

TM„2 

890 

890 

11 

TMn 

1461 

— 

12 

TE51 

1519 

— 

50  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

The  calculated  and  measured  \'alue  of  time  for  one  round  trip  is  given 
in  Table  I. 

In  this  experiment  the  operating  wavelength  was  3.35  centimeters 
This  was  obtained  by  measurements  based  on  group  velocit}'  in  a  num- 
ber of  guides  as  well  as  information  about  the  pulse  generator  com- 
ponents. It  represents  an  effective  wa\'elength  giving  correct  time  of 
travel.  The  pulse  occupies  such  a  wide  bandwidth  that  a  measurement 
of  its  wavelength  is  difficult  by  the  usual  means. 

The  dashes  in  the  measured  column  indicate  that  the  mode  was  not 
excited  by  the  probe  or  was  too  weak  to  measure.  These  modes  do  not 
appear  on  the  oscilloscope  trace  photograph. 

The  relative  pulse  heights  can  be  calculated  from  a  knowledge  of  the 
probe  coupling  factors  and  the  line  loss.  The  probe  coupling  factors  as 
given  by  M.  Aronoff  in  unpublished  work  are  expressed  by  the  following 

For  TE„„,  modes: 

P  =  2.390  r—^ 


i 


For  TM„^  modes: 


TV-         L     a    -. 

j\. nm  ^    "flu 


X     X 

P  =  1.195€„  — - 


where 

P  =  ratio  of  probe  coupling  power  in  mode  nm  to  that  in  mode  TEn 

n  =  first  index  of  mode  being  calculated 
Knm  =  Bessel  function  zero  value  for  mode  being  calculated  =  Td/\c 

X  =  wavelength  in  air 

X(,  =  wavelength  in  the  guide  for  the  mode  involved  ' 

Xc  =  cutoff  wavelength  of  guide  for  the  mode  involved 

€„  =  1  for  w  =  0 

€„  =  2  for  n  ?^  0  , 

d  =  waveguide  diameter 

Formulas  for  guide  loss  as  given  by  S.  A.  Schelkunoff  on  page  390  of 
his  book  Elect romagnelir  Waves  for  this  case  where  the  resistivity  of  the 
aluminum  guide  is  4.14  X  10~^  ohms  per  cm  cube  are: 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH    MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES  51 

For  TE„,„  modes: 

a    =    3.805   !    —       2  2    +    V.an     )   (1     "    Vnm) 

\l\n,n      —    n  / 

For  TM„,„  modes: 

a  =  3.805(1  -  VnJy''' 
where: 

a  =  attemiation  of  this  aluminum  guide  in  db 

n  —  first  index  of  mode  being  calculated 
Knm  —  Bessel  function  zero  value  for  mode  being  calculated  =  TrtZ/Xc 

Vnm    =    A/Ac 

X  =  operating  wavelength  in  air 

Xc  =  cutoff  wavelength  of  guide  for  the  mode  involved 

d  =  waveguide  diameter 

Table  II  gives  the  calculated  probe  coupling  factor,  line  loss,  and  rela- 
tive pulse  height  for  each  mode.  In  the  calculation  of  the  latter,  wave 
elUpticity  and  loss  due  to  mode  conversion  were  neglected,  but  the  heat 
loss  given  by  the  preceding  formulas  has  been  increased  20  per  cent  for 
all  modes,  to  take  account  of  surface  roughness.  Relative  pulse  heights 
were  obtained  by  subtracting  the  relative  line  loss  from  twice  the  rela- 
tive probe  coupling  factor.  The  relative  line  loss  is  the  number  in  the 
itable  minus  2.33  db,  the  loss  for  the  TEn  mode. 

The  actual  pulse  heights  on  the  photo  of  the  trace  on  Fig.  12  are  in 
fair  agreement  with  these  calculated  values.  Differences  are  probably 
due  to  polarization  rotation  in  the  guide  (wave  ellipticity)  and  conver- 
sion to  other  modes,  effects  which  were  neglected  in  the  calculations, 
and  which  are  different  for  different  modes. 

Calculated  pulse  heights  with  this  guide  length,  except  for  modes 
near  cutoff,  vary  less  than  the  probe  coupling  factors,  because  line  loss 
is  high  when  tight  probe  coupling  exists.  This  is  to  be  expected,  since 
both  are  the  result  of  high  fields  near  the  guide  walls. 

The  table  of  round  trip  travel  time  shows  that  the  TE41  and  TE12 
modes  are  separated  by  only  three  millimicroseconds  after  the  round 
trip  in  this  waveguide.  They  would  not  be  resolved  as  separate  pulses 
by  this  e(iuipment.  However,  the  table  of  calculated  pulse  heights  shows 
that  the  TE41  pulse  should  be  about  22  db  higher  than  the  TE12  pulse. 


52 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


Table  II  —  Calculated  Probe  Coupling  Factor,  Line  Loss  and 
Pulse  Height  for  Each  Mode 


Mode 

Mode 

Relative  Probe 

1.2  X  Theoretical 

Calculated  Relatix  e 

Number 

Designation 

Coupling  Factor, 
db 

Line  Loss,  db 

Pulse  Heights,  db 

1 

TEu 

0 

2.33 

0 

2 

TMoi 

+0.32 

4.88 

-1.91 

3 

TE2, 

+2.86 

4.85 

+3.20 

4 

TMu 

+2.80 

5.51 

+2.42 

5 

TEo, 

—  00 

1.73 

—  00 

6 

TE31 

+4.82 

8.21 

+3.76 

7 

TM2, 

+  1.82 

6.92 

-0.95 

8 

TE41 

+6.80 

13.86 

+2.07 

9 

TE12 

-8.73 

4.70 

-19.83 

10 

TM02 

-1.68 

7.74 

-8.77 

11 

TMsi 

-0.82 

12.71 

-12.02 

12 

TE51 

+  10.14 

32.09 

-9.48 

Since  the  TE12  pulse  is  so  weak,  it  would  not  show  on  the  trace  even  if 
it  were  resolved  on  a  time  basis.  Coupling  to  the  TM02  mode  is  rather 
weak,  and  the  gain  was  increased  somewhat  at  its  position  on  the  trace 
to  show  its  time  location. 

8.    DELAY  distortion 

Another  effect  of  the  wide  bandwidth  of  the  pulses  used  with  this 
equipment  can  be  observed  in  Fig.  12.  The  pulses  that  have  traveled 
for  a  longer  time  in  the  guide  are  in  the  modes  closer  to  cutoff,  and  are 
on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  oscilloscope  trace.  They  are  broadened 
and  distorted  compared  with  the  ones  on  the  left-hand  side.  This  effect 
is  due  to  delay  distortion  in  the  guide.  This  can  be  explained  by  refer- 
ence to  Fig.  13.  On  this  figure  the  ratio  of  group  velocity  to  the  velocity 
in  an  unbounded  medium  is  shown  plotted  as  a  function  of  frequency 
for  each  of  the  modes  that  can  be  propagated.  The  bandwidth  of  the 
transmitted  pulse  is  indicated  by  the  vertical  shaded  area.  It  will  he 
noticed  that  the  spacing  of  the  pulses  on  the  oscilloscope  trace  on  Fig. 
12  from  left  to  right  in  time  corresponds  to  the  spacing  of  the  group 
velocity  curves  in  the  bandwidth  of  the  pulse  from  top  to  bottom.  De- 
lay distortion  on  these  curves  is  shown  by  the  slope  of  the  line  across 
the  pulse  bandwidth.  If  the  line  were  horizontal,  showing  the  same  group 
velocity  at  all  points  in  the  band,  there  would  be  no  delay  distortion. 
The  greater  the  difference  in  group  A-elocity  at  the  two  edges  of  the 
band,  the  greater  the  delay  distortion.  The  curves  of  Fig.  13  indicate 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


53 


I  that  there  should  be  increasing  amounts  of  delay  distortion  reading 
ifrom  top  to  bottom  for  the  pulse  bandwidth  used  in  these  experiments. 
;The  effect  of  this  delay  distortion  is  to  cause  a  broadening  of  the  pulse. 
Examination  of  the  pulse  pattern  of  Fig.  12  shows  that  the  later  pulses 
corresponding  in  mode  designation  to  the  lower  curves  of  Fig.  13  do  in- 
deed show  a  broadening  due  to  the  increased  delay  distortion.  One 
method  of  reducing  the  effect  of  delay  distortion  is  to  use  frequency 
division  multiplex  so  that  each  signal  uses  a  smaller  bandwidth.  Another 
way,  suggested  by  D.  H.  Ring,  is  to  invert  the  band  in  a  section  of  the 
waveguide  between  one  pair  of  repeaters  compared  with  that  between 
an  adjacent  pair  of  repeaters  so  that  the  slope  is,  in  effect,  placed  in  the 
opposite  direction,  and  delay  distortion  tends  to  cancel  out,  to  a  first 
order  at  least. 

The  (luantitative  magnitude  of  delay  distortion  has  been  expressed 
by  S.  Darlington  in  terms  of  the  modulating  base-band  frequency 
needed  to  generate  two  side  frequencies  which  suffer  a  relative  phase 
error  of  180°  in  traversing  the  line.  This  would  cause  cancellation  of  a 
single  frequency  AM  signal,  and  severe  distortion  using  any  of  the 


1.0 

PULSE    BANDWIDTH 

— >. 

<— 

^^ 

^— 

UJ 

^0.9 

Q. 
</) 

OI 

mo.8 
u. 

z 

^0.7 

1- 

o 

O 

> 
o 

^  0.5 

>- 

o 

3  0.4 

m 

> 

^0.3 

o 

(r 
o 

^0.2 

o 
io., 

0 

■^^H;;^ 

. — 

/^ 

o^^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

/ 

/ 

y 

\a 

X 

y 

/ 

^ 

^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

6 

^ 

/ 

7 

/ 

f 

// 

< 

f/> 

\ 

^-'^'fA 

y^. 

/ 

/ 

1 

/ 

1 

'L 

f4 

// 

1 

/ 

/ 

1 

1 

/A 

'/ 

// 

// 

L 

^i 

/  1 

7 

\\ 

1 

3  4 

FREQUENCY 


5  6  7  8  9  10 

IN    KILOMEGACYCLES    PER   SECOND 


12 


1  Fig.  1.3  —  Theoretical  group  velocity  vs.  frequency  curves  for  the  3"  diameter 
ivaveguide  used  for  the  tests  shown  on  Fig.  12.  The  vertical  shaded  area  gives  the 
bandwidth  for  the  millimicrosecond  pulses  employed  in  that  arrangement. 


54  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

ordinary  modulation  methods.  Darlington  gives  this  formula: 

^)     ^^^^ 

iLLi/  Vnm 

where : 

jB    =  base  bandwidth  for  180°  out  of  phase  sidebands 

/  =  operating  frequency  (in  same  units  as  jB) 

X  =  wavelength  in  air 

L  =  waveguide  length  (in  same  units  as  X) 

Vnm    =    X/Xe 

Xc  =  cutoff  wavelength  for  the  mode  involved 

With  this  equipment,  the  base  bandwidth  of  the  pulse  is  about  175 
mc,  and  when/5  from  the  formula  above  is  about  equal  to  or  less  than 
this,  pulse  distortion  should  be  observed.  The  following  Table  III  gives 
fB  calculated  from  this  formula  for  the  arrangement  shown  on  Fig.  12. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  pulses  in  the  TMu  and  TE31  modes,  for 
which  jB  is  less  than  the  175-mc  pulse  bandwidth,  are  broadened,  but 
not  badly  distorted.  For  the  higher  modes,  where  jB  is  much  less  than 
175  mc,  broadening  and  severe  distortion  are  evident.  Another  example 
is  given  in  the  next  section. 

9.    DELAY   DISTORTION   EQUALIZATION 

If  the  distance  which  a  pulse  travels  in  a  waveguide  is  increased,  its 
delay  distortion  also  increases.  Since  the  group  velocity  at  one  edge  of 
the  band  is  different  than  at  the  other  edge  of  the  band,  the  amount 
by  which  the  two  edges  get  out  of  phase  with  each  other  increases  with 
the  total  length  of  travel,  causing  increased  distortion  and  pulse  broaden- 
ing. The  Darlington  formula  in  the  previous  section  shows  that  jB 
varies  inversely  as  the  square  root  of  the  length  of  travel.  This  efTect 
is  shown  on  Fig.  14.  In  this  arrangement  the  transmitter  was  connected 
to  the  end  of  a  3"  diameter  round  waveguide  107  feet  long  through  a 
small  hole  in  the  end  plate.  A  mode  filter  was  used  so  that  only  the 
TEoi  mode  would  be  transmitted  in  this  Avaveguide.  Through  another 
small  hole  in  the  end  plate  polarized  90°  from  the  first  one,  and  rotated 
90°  around  tlu^  plate,  a  directional  coupler  was  connected  as  shown. 
The  direct  through  guide  of  this  directional  coupler  could  be  short  cir- 
cuited with  a  waveguide  shorting  switch.  Energy  reflected  from  this 


fl 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH    MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES 


55 


Table  III  - 

—  Calculatee 

>  Values  of  fB  foe  the  Arrangement 

Shown  in  Fig.  1 

2 

Mode  Number 

Mode  Designation 

/B  Megacycles 

Remarks 

1 

TEn 

324.0 

2 

TMoi 

237.7 

3 

TEn 

174.9 

4 

TMu 

124.1 

5 

TEoi 

124.1 

Not  excited 

6 

TE31 

105.2 

7 

TMoi 

65.9 

8 

TE41 

59.1 

9 

TEi, 

58.6 

Veiy  weakly  excited 

10 

TMoo 

51.8 

11 

TM3: 

21.3 

Not  observed 

12 

TE51 

20.0 

Not  observed 

NUMBER  OF 

R( 

3UND  TRIPS 

TAPERED 

DELAY 

DISTORTION 

EQUALIZER 


WAVEGUIDE 

SHORTING 

SWITCH 


1/ 


'M 


^ 


te; 


>T0    RECEIVER 


NOT   EQUALIZED 
(SWITCH  CLOSED) 


EQUALIZED 
(SWITCH  OPEN) 


TEqiIN   3    DIAM  ROUND  GUIDE 
(107   FT  LONG) 


Fig.  14  —  The  left-hand  series  of  pulses  shows  the  build  up  of  delay  distortion 
with  increasing  number  of  round  trips  in  a  long  waveguide.  The  right-hand  series 
shows  the  im]irovement  obtained  with  the  tapered  delay  distortion  equalizer 
shown  at  the  right. 


56 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


switch  was  then  taken  through  the  directional  coupler  to  the  receiver 
as  shown  by  the  output  arrow.  The  series  of  pulses  at  the  left-hand 
photograph  of  the  oscilloscope  traces  was  taken  with  this  waveguide  i 
shorting  switch  closed.  The  top  pulse  shows  the  direct  leakage  across 
the  inside  of  the  end  plate  before  it  has  traveled  through  the  3"  round 
guide.  The  next  pulse  is  marked  one  round  trip,  having  gone  therefore 
214  feet  in  the  TEoi  mode  in  the  round  waveguide.  The  successive  pulses 
have  traveled  more  round  trips  as  shown  by  the  number  in  the  center 
between  the  two  photographs.  The  effect  of  increased  delay  distortion 
broadening  and  distorting  the  pulse  can  be  seen  as  the  numbers  increase. 
The  values  of  fB  from  the  Darlington  formula  in  the  previous  section 
for  these  lengths  are  given  in  Table  IV. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  pulse  broadening,  and  eventually  severe  dis- 
tortion, occurs  as  fB  decreases  much  below  the  175-mc  pulse  band- 
width. The  effect  is  gradual,  and  not  too  bad  a  pulse  shape  is  seen  until 
fB  is  about  half  the  pulse  bandwidth,  although  broadening  is  very 
evident  earlier. 

When  the  waveguide  short-circuiting  switch  was  opened  so  that  the 
tapered  delay  distortion  equalizer  was  used  to  reflect  the  energy,  in- 
stead of  the  switch,  the  series  of  pulses  at  the  right  was  observed  on 
the  indicator.  It  will  be  noted  that  there  is  much  less  distortion  of  these, 
pulses,  particularly  toward  the  bottom  of  the  series.  The  ones  at  the  top, 
have  less  distortion  than  would  be  expected,  probably  because  of  fre-, 
quency  modulation  of  the  injected  pulse.  The  equalizer  consists  of  a 
long  gradually  tapered  section  of  waveguide  which  has  its  size  reduced 
to  a  point  beyond  cutoff  for  the  frequencies  involved.  Reflection  takes 
place  at  the  point  of  cutoff  in  this  tapered  guide.  For  the  high  frequency 
part  of  the  pulse  bandwidth,  this  point  is  farther  away  from  the  short- 
ing switch  than  for  the  low  frequency  part  of  the  bandwidth.  Conse- 
quently, the  high  frequency  part  of  the  pulse  travels  farther  in  one  round 
trip  into  this  tapered  section  and  back  than  the  low  frequency  part  of 


Table  IV  —  Values  of  fB  from  the  Darlington  Formula 
FOR  the  Arrangement  Show^n  in  Fig.  14 


li 


Round  Trip  Number 

JB  Megacycles 

Round  Trip  Number 

fB  Megacycles 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

185.8 

131.4 

107.3 

92.9 

83.1 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

75.8 
70.2 
65.7 
61.9 

58.7 

j 

1 

1 

WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES  57 

he  pulse.  This  increased  time  of  travel  compensates  for  the  shorter 
ime  of  travel  of  the  high  frequency  edge  of  the  band  in  the  3"  round 
.vaveguide,  so  equalization  takes  place.  Since  this  waveguide  close  to 
cutoff  introduces  considerable  delay  distortion  by  itself,  the  taper  effect 
nust  be  made  larger  in  order  to  secure  the  equalization.  This  can  be 
ilone  by  making  the  taper  sufficiently  gradual.  This  type  of  equalizer 
ntroduces  a  rather  high  loss  in  the  system.  For  this  reason  it  might 
le  used  to  predistort  the  signal  at  an  early  level  in  a  repeater  system, 
ilqualization  by  this  method  was  suggested  by  J.  R.  Pierce. 

.0.    MEASURING  MODE  CONVERSION  FROM  ISOLATED  SOURCES 

I  One  of  the  important  uses  of  this  equipment  has  been  for  the  meas- 
irement  of  mode  conversion.  W.  D.  Warters  has  cooperated  in  develop- 
ng  techniques  and  carrying  out  such  measurements.  One  of  the  prob- 
ems  in  the  design  of  mode  filters  used  for  suppressing  all  modes  except 
;he  circular  electric  ones  in  round  multimode  guides  is  mode  conversion. 
Since  these  mode  filters  have  circular  symmetry,  conversion  can  take 
alace  only  to  circular  electric  modes  of  order  higher  than  the  TEoi  mode. 
This  conversion  is,  however,  a  troublesome  one,  since  these  higher 
Drder  circular  modes  cannot  be  suppressed  by  the  usual  type  of  filter. 

An  arrangement  for  measuring  mode  conversion  at  such  mode  filters 
rom  the  TEoi  to  the  TE02  mode  is  being  used  with  the  short  pulse  equip- 
:nent.  This  employs  a  400-foot  long  section  of  the  b"  diameter  line.  Be- 
ause  the  coupled- line  transducer  available  had  too  high  a  loss  to  TE02 ,  a 
3ombined  TEoi  —  TE02  transducer  was  assembled.  It  uses  one-half  of 
:he  round  waveguide  to  couple  to  each  mode.  Fig.  15  shows  this  device. 

The  use  of  this  transducer  and  line  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  16.  Pulses  in 
:he  TEoi  mode  are  sent  into  the  waveguide  by  the  upper  section  of  the 
transducer  as  shown.  Some  of  the  TEoi  energy  goes  directly  across  to 
ohe  TE02  transducer  and  appears  as  the  outgoing  pulse  with  a  level 
down  about  32  db.  This  is  useful  as  a  time  reference  in  the  system  and 
s  shown  as  the  outgoing  pulse  in  the  photo  of  the  oscilloscope  trace 
ibove.  The  main  energy  in  the  TEoi  mode  propagates  down  the  line  as 
hown  by  dashed  line  2,  which  is  the  path  of  this  wave.  Most  of 
ohis  energy  goes  all  the  way  to  the  reflecting  piston  at  the  far  end  and 
ohen  returns  to  the  TE02  transducer  where  it  gives  a  pulse  which  is 
narked  TEoi  round  trip  on  the  trace  photograph  above.  Two  thirds  of 
;he  way  from  the  sending  end  to  the  piston,  the  mode  filter  being  meas- 
ired  is  inserted  in  the  line.  When  the  TEoi  mode  energy  comes  to  this 
node  filter,  a  small  amount  of  it  is  converted  to  the  TE02  mode.  This 


58 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL 


Fig.  15  —  A  special  experimental  transducer  for  injecting  the  TEoi  mode  and' 
receiving  the  converted  TE02  mode  in  a  5"  diameter  waveguide. 


continues  to  the  piston  by  path  4  (with  dashed  Hnes  and  crosses) 
and  then  returns  and  is  received  by  the  TE02  part  of  the  transducer. 
This  appears  on  the  trace  photo  as  the  TE02  first  conversion.  When  the 
main  TEoi  energy  reflected  by  the  piston  comes  back  to  the  mode  filter, 
conversion  again  takes  place  to  TE02  •  This  is  shown  by  path  3  hav- 
ing dashed  lines  and  circles.  This  returns  to  the  TE02  part  of  the  trans- 
ducer and  appears  on  the  trace  photo  as  the  TE02  second  conversion. 
In  addition,  a  small  amount  of  energy  in  the  TE02  mode  is  generated 
by  the  TEoi  upper  part  of  the  transducer.  It  is  shown  by  path  5,  having' 


OUTGOING  PULSE 


TEoi 

ROUND 

TRIP 


TE02 

SECOND 

CONVERSION 


TE02 

FIRST 

CONVERSION 


TE02 

ROUND 

TRIP 


' 


MODE   FILTER 


Fig.  16  —  Trace  photos  and  waveguide  paths  traveled  when  measuring  TEoi, 
to  TE02  mode  conversion  at  a  mode  filter  with  the  transducer  shown  on  Fig.  15 


All 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH   MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES  59 

jihort  dashes.  This  goes  down  through  the  waveguide  to  the  far  end 
Ijiston  and  back,  and  is  received  by  the  TE02  transducer  and  shown  as 
[he  pulse  marked  TE02  round  trip.  The  pulse  marked  TEoi  round  trip 
las  a  time  separation  from  the  outgoing  pulse  which  is  determined  by 
,he  group  velocity  of  TEoi  waves  going  one  round  trip  in  the  guide.  The 
|rEo2  round  trip  pulse  appears  at  a  time  corresponding  to  the  group 
/elocity  of  the  TE02  mode  going  one  round  trip  in  the  guide.  Spacing  the 
node  filter  two-thirds  of  the  way  down  produces  the  two  conversion 
:)ulses  equally  spaced  between  these  two  as  shown  in  Fig.  16.  The  first 
ponversion  pulse  appears  at  a  time  which  is  the  sum  of  the  time  taken 
or  the  TEoi  to  go  down  to  the  filter  and  the  TE02  to  go  from  the  filter 
uo  the  piston  and  back  to  the  receiver.  Because  of  the  slower  velocity 
bf  the  TE02 ,  this  appears  at  the  time  shown,  since  it  was  in  the  TE02 
node  for  a  longer  time  than  it  was  in  the  TEoi  mode.  The  second  con- 
[/ersion,  which  happened  when  TEoi  came  back  to  the  mode  filter,  comes 
jiarlier  in  time  than  the  first  conversion,  since  the  path  for  this  signal 
ivas  in  the  TEoi  mode  longer  than  it  was  in  the  TE02  mode.  This  arrange- 
,nent  gives  very  good  time  separation,  and  makes  possible  a  measure- 
Inent  of  the  amount  of  mode  conversion  taking  place  in  the  mode  filters, 
viode  conversion  from  TEoi  to  TE02  as  low  as  50  to  55  db  down,  can  be 
neasured  with  this  equipment. 

Randomly  spaced  single  discontinuities  in  long  waveguides  can  be 
ocated  by  this  technique  if  they  are  separated  far  enough  to  give  in- 
lividually  resolved  short  pulses  in  the  converted  mode.  Fig.  17  shows 


CONVERSION 

FIRST    CONVERSION             AT   FAR  END  SECOND  CONVERSION 

AT    NEAR   END                        SQUEEZED  AT    NEAR  END 

SQUEEZED  SECTION                   SECTION  SQUEEZED  SECTION 


TO  RECEIVER 


TEJo     — *-       TEq,  TE2,    -• »-    TE,o  NEAR  END  250  FT  OF  FAR  END 

TRANSDUCER  COUPLED  LINE  SQUEEZED       3"DIAM  ROUND      SQUEEZED 

TRANSDUCER  SECTION  GUIDE  SECTION 

Fig.  17  —  Arrangement  used  to  explain  the  measurement  and  location  of  mode 
onversion  from  isolated  sources.  A  deliberately  squeezed  section  was  placed 
t  each  end  of  the  long  waveguide,  producing  the  pulses  shown  in  the  trace  photo. 


60  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

an  arrangement  having  oval  sections  deliberately  placed  in  the  wave- ' 
guide  in  order  to  explain  the  method.  Pure  TEoi  excitation  is  vised,  and 
the  converted  TE21  mode  observed  with  a  coupled  line  transducer  giv- ; 
ing  an  output  for  that  mode  alone.  ; 

Let  us  consider  first  what  would  happen  with  the  far-end  squeezed; 
section  alone,  omitting  the  near-end  squeezed  section  from  considera-  • 
tion.  The  injected  TEoi  mode  signal  would  then  travel  down  the  250 , 
feet  of  3"  diameter  round  waveguide  to  the  far  end  with  substantially, 
no  mode  conversion  at  the  level  being  measured.  At  this  point  it  goes 
through  the  squeezed  section.  Conversion  now  takes  place  from  the  TEou, 
mode  to  the  TE21  mode.  Both  these  modes  after  reflection  from  the  piston 
travel  back  up  the  waveguide  to  the  sending  end.  The  group  velocity 
of  the  TE21  mode  is  higher  than  the  group  velocity  of  the  TEoi  mode,  so 
energy  in  these  two  modes  separates,  and  if  a  coupling  system  were 
used  to  receive  energy  in  both  modes,  two  pulses  would  appear,  with  at 
time  separation  between  them.  In  this  case,  since  the  receiver  is  con- 
nected to  the  line  through  the  coupled  line  transducer  which  is  responsive 
only  to  the  TE21  mode,  only  one  pulse  is  seen,  that  due  to  this  mode 
alone.  This  is  the  center  pulse  in  the  trace  photograph  at  the  top  of 
Fig.  17.  If  only  one  mode  conversion  point  at  the  far  end  of  the  guide 
exists,  only  this  one  pulse  is  seen  at  the  receiver.  It  would  be  spaced  a 
distance  away  from  the  injected  outgoing  pulse  that  corresponds  m:^ 
time  to  one  trip  of  the  TEoi  mode  down  to  the  far  end  and  one  trip  of  || 
the  TE21  mode  from  the  far  end  back  to  the  receiver. 

Now  let  us  consider  what  would  happen  if  the  near-end  squeezed  sec- 
tion alone  were  present.  When  the  TEqi  wave  passes  the  oval  section! 
just  beyond  the  coupled  line  transducer,  conversion  takes  place,  andi 
the  energy  travels  down  the  line  in  both  the  TEoi  and  the  TE21  modes,:; 
at  a  higher  group  velocity  in  the  TE21  mode.  These  two  signals  are  re- 
flected by  the  piston  at  the  far  end  and  return  to  the  sending  end.  The 
TE21  signal  comes  through  the  coupled  line  transducer  and  appears  as 
the  pulse  at  the  left  of  the  photo  shown  on  Fig.  17.  Now  the  TEoi  energy 
has  lagged  behind  the  TE21  energy,  and  when  it  gets  back  to  the  near- 
end  squeezed  section,  a  second  mode  conversion  takes  place,  and  TE21 
mode  energy  is  produced  which  comes  through  the  coupled  line  trans-: 
ducer  and  appears  at  the  receiver  at  the  time  of  the  right  hand  pulse. 
The  spacing  between  these  two  pulses  is  equal  to  the  difference  in  round 
trip  times  between  the  two  modes. 

In  general,  for  a  single  conversion  source  occurring  at  any  point  in 
the  line,  two  pulses  will  appear  on  the  scope.  The  spacing  between  these 
pulses  corresponds  to  the  difference  in  group  velocity  between  the  modes. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   AVITH   MILLIMICROSECOND   PULSES  61 

{from  the  point  of  the  discontiimity  down  to  the  piston  at  the  far  end, 

land  then  back  to  the  discontinuity.  If  the  discontinuity  is  at  the  far 

lend,  this  time  difference  becomes  zero,  and  a  single  pulse  is  seen.  By 

i  [making  a  measurement  of  the  pulse  spacing,  the  location  of  a  single 

i  icon  version  point  can  be  determined. 

[      In  the  arrangement  illustrated  in  Fig.  17,  two  isolated  sources  of 

j  conversion  existed.  They  were  spaced  far  enough  apart  so  that  they 

\  were  resolved  by  this  equipment,  and  all  three  pulses  were  observed. 

The  two  outside  pulses  were  due  to  the  first  conversion  point.  The  center 

pulse  was  caused  by  the  other  squeeze,  which  was  right  at  the  reflecting 

|:)iston.  If  this  conversion  point  had  been  located  back  some  distance 

rom  the  piston,  it  would  have  produced  two  conversion  pulses  whose 

'spacing  could  be  used  to  determine  the  location  of  the  conversion  point. 

I    The  coupled-line  transducers  are  calibrated  for  coupling  loss  by  send- 

ng  the  pulse  through  a  directional  coupler  into  the  branch  normally 

ised  for  the  output  to  the  receiver.  This  gives  a  return  loss  from  the 

lirectional  coupler  equal  to  twice  the  transducer  loss  plus  the  round 

rip  line  loss. 

1.    MEASURING    DISTRIBUTED    MODE    CONVERSION    IN    LONG    WAVEGUIDES 

;  Measurements  of  mode  conversion  from  TEoi  to  a  number  of  other 
nodes  have  been  made  with  5"  diameter  guides  using  this  equipment, 
rhe  arrangement  of  Fig.  18  was  set  up  for  this  purpose.  This  is  the  same 
IS  Fig.  17,  except  that  a  long  taper  was  used  at  the  input  end  of  the  5" 
waveguide,  and  a  movable  piston  installed  at  the  remote  end. 

One  of  the  converted  modes  studied  with  this  apparatus  arrange- 
uent  was  the  TMu  mode,  which  is  produced  by  bends  in  the  guide, 
rhis  mode  has  the  same  velocity  in  the  waveguide  as  the  TEoi  mode. 
Therefore  energy  components  converted  at  different  points  in  the  line 
tay  in  phase  with  the  injected  TEoi  mode  from  which  they  are  converted, 
rhere  is  never  any  time  separation  between  these  modes,  and  a  single 

TO    RECEIVER 


■  I  ■■'■    '■■■  ^ 


^^i 


Si 


TEro— *TE^,  COUPLED    LINE  -^^p^P,  5„  0,^^^  MOVABLE 

TRANSDUCER  TRANSDUCER  HOLMDEL    LINE  PISTON 

FOR   THE   MODE 
BEING  MEASURED 

Fig.  18  —  Arrangement  used  for  measuring  mode  conversion  in  the  5"  diameter 
aveguides  at  Holmdel. 


62 


THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


narrow  pulse  like  the  transmitted  one  is  all  that  appears  on  the  indicator 
oscilloscope.  It  is  not  possible  from  this  to  get  any  information  about 
the  location  or  extent  of  the  conversion  points  in  the  line.  Moving  the 
far  end  piston  does  not  change  the  relative  phases  of  the  modes,  so  no 
changes  are  seen  in  indicator  pattern  or  pulse  level  as  the  piston  is 
moved.  For  the  Holmdel  waveguides,  which  are  about  500  feet  long, 
the  total  round  trip  T]\In  mode  converted  level  varies  from  32  to  36  db 
below  the  input  TEoi  mode  level  over  a  frequency  range  from  8,800  to 
9,600  mc  per  second. 

All  the  other  modes  have  velocities  that  are  different  than  that  of 
the  TEoi  mode.  ^Vhen  mode  conversion  takes  place  at  many  closely 
spaced  points  along  the  waveguide,  the  pulses  from  the  various  sources 
overlap,  and  phasing  effects  take  place.  In  general,  a  filled-in  pulse 
much  longer  than  the  injected  one  is  observed.  The  maximum  possible, 
but  not  necessary,  pulse  length  is  equal  to  the  difference  in  time  re- 
quired for  the  TEoi  mode  and  the  converted  mode  to  travel  the  total 
waveguide  length  being  observed.  The  phasing  effects  within  the  broad- 
ened pulse  change  its  height  and  shape  as  a  function  of  frequency  and 
line  length. 

Measurements  of  mode  conversion  from  TEoi  to  TE31  in  these  wave- 
guides illustrate  distributed  sources  and  piston  phasing  effects.  The 
TE3,  mode  has  a  group  velocity  1.4  per  cent  slower  than  the  TEoi  mode. 
For  a  full  round  trip  in  the  500-foot  lines,  assuming  conversion  at  the 
imput  end,  this  causes  a  time  separation  of  about  two  and  one  half 
pulse  widths  between  these  two  modes.  The  received  pulse  is  about  two 
and  a  half  times  as  long  as  the  injected  pulse,  indicating  rather  closely 
spaced  sources  over  the  whole  line  length.  For  one  far-end  piston  posi- 
tion, the  received  pattern  is  shown  as  the  upper  trace  in  Fig.  19.  As 
the  piston  is  moved,  the  center  depressed  part  of  the  trace  gradually 


ImK.  10  —  Hocoivcd  pulsr  patterns  willi  llic  .irraiijicnuMit  of  Fig.  IS  used  for 
studying  conversion  to  tlie  Tlvn  mode. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH    MILLIMICROSECOND    PULSES  63 

rises  until  the  pattern  shown  in  the  lower  trace  is  seen.  As  the  piston 
is  moved  farther  in  the  same  direction  the  trace  gradually  changes  to 
have  the  appearance  of  the  upper  photo  again.  Moving  the  far-end 
piston  changes  the  phase  of  energy  on  the  return  trip,  and  thus  it  can 
be  made  to  add  to,  or  nearly  cancel  out,  conversion  components  that 
originated  ahead  of  the  piston.  When  the  time  separation  becomes 
great  enough  to  prevent  overlapping  in  the  pulse  ^^^dth,  phasing  effects 
cannot  take  place,  therefore,  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  spread-out 
received  pulse  are  not  affected  by  moving  the  piston.  Energy  converted 
at  the  sending  end  of  the  guide  travels  the  full  round  trip  to  the  piston 
and  back  in  the  slower  TE31  mode,  and  thus  appears  at  the  latest  time, 
which  is  at  the  right-hand  end  of  the  received  pulse.  Conversion  at  the 
piston  end  returns  at  the  center  of  the  pulse,  and  conversion  on  the 
return  trip  comes  at  earlier  times,  at  the  left-hand  part  of  the  pulse. 
The  TEoi  mode  has  less  loss  in  the  guide  than  the  TE31  mode.  Since  the 
energy  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  received  pulse  spent  a  greater  part  of 
the  trip  in  the  lower  loss  TEoi  mode  before  conversion,  the  output  is 
higher  here,  and  slopes  off  toward  the  right,  where  the  later  returning 
energy  has  gone  for  a  longer  distance  in  the  higher  loss  mode.  The  pulse 
height  at  the  maximum  shows  the  converted  energy  from  that  part  of 
the  line  to  be  between  30  and  35  db  below  the  incident  TEoi  energy 
level  over  the  measured  band\\ddth. 

Measurements  of  mode  conversion  from  TEoi  to  TE21  in  these  wave- 
guides show  these  same  effects,  and  also  a  phasing  effect  as  a  function 
of  frequency.  The  TE21  mode  has  a  group  velocity  2.4  per  cent  faster 
than  the  TEoi  mode.  For  a  full  round  trip  in  the  guides,  this  is  a  time 
separation  of  about  four  pulse  mdths  between  the  modes.  At  one  fre- 
quency and  one  far-end  piston  position,  the  TE21  response  shown  as  the 
top  trace  of  Fig.  20  was  obtained.  Moving  the  far-end  piston  gradually 
changed  this  to  the  second  trace  from  the  top,  and  further  piston  mo- 
tion changed  it  back  again.  This  is  the  same  kind  of  piston  phasing  effect 
observed  in  the  TE31  mode  conversion  studies.  The  irregular  top  of  this 
broadened  pulse  indicates  fewer  conversion  points  than  for  the  TE31 
mode,  or  phasing  effects  along  the  guide  length.  Since  the  TE21  mode 
has  a  higher  group  velocity'  than  the  TEoi  mode,  energy  converted  at 
the  beginning  of  the  guide  returns  at  the  earlier  or  left-hand  part  of  the 
pulse,  and  conversions  on  the  return  trip,  having  traveled  longer  in 
the  slower  TEoi  mode,  are  on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  pulse.  This  is 
just  the  reverse  of  the  situation  for  the  TE31  mode.  Since  the  loss  in  the 
TE21  mode  is  higher  than  in  the  TEoi  mode,  the  right  side  of  this  broad- 
ened pulse  is  higher  than  the  left  side,  as  the  energy  in  the  left  side  has 


64 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


gone  further  in  the  higher  loss  TE21  mode.  Conversions  from  the  piston 
end  of  the  guide  return  in  the  center  of  the  pulse,  and  only  in  this  re- 
gion do  piston  phasing  effects  appear.  As  the  frequency  is  changed  the  ' 
pattern  changes,  until  it  reaches  the  extreme  shape  shown  in  the  next- 
to-the-bottom  trace,  with  this  narrower  pulse  coming  at  a  time  corre- 
sponding to  the  center  of  the  broadened  pulse  at  the  top.  Further  fre- 
quency change  in  the  same  direction  returns  the  shape  to  that  of  the 
top  traces.  At  the  frequency  giving  the  received  pulse  shown  on  the 
next-to-the-bottom  trace,  moving  the  far-end  piston  causes  a  gradual 
change  to  the  shape  shown  on  the  lowest  trace.  This  makes  it  appear 
as  if  the  mode  conversion  were  coming  almost  entirely  from  the  part  of 
the  guide  near  the  piston  end  at  this  frequency.  The  upper  traces  appear 
to  show  that  more  energy  is  converted  at  the  transducer  end  of  the 
waveguide  at  that  frequency.  It  would  seem  that  at  certain  frequencies 
some  phase  cancellation  is  taking  place  between  conversion  points 
spaced  closely  enough  to  overlap  within  the  pulse  width .  At  frequencies 
between  the  ones  giving  traces  like  this,  the  appearance  is  more  like 
that  shown  for  the  TE31  mode  on  Fig.  19  except  for  the  slope  across  the 
top  of  the  pulse  being  reversed.  The  highest  part  of  this  TEoi  pulse  is 


Fiff.  20  —  Received  pulse  patterns  witli  the  urrangemeiit  of  Fig.  18  used  for 
studying  conversion  to  the  TE21  mode. 


WAVEGUIDE   TESTING   WITH    MILLIMICKOSECOND    PULSES  65 

24  to  27  db  below  the  injected  TEoi  pulse  level  for  the  5"  diameter 
Holmdel  waveguides. 

12.    CONCLUDING  REMARKS 

The  high  resolution  obtainable  with  this  millimicrosecond  pulse 
equipment  provides  information  difficult  to  obtain  by  any  other  means. 
These  examples  of  its  use  in  waveguide  investigations  indicate  the 
possibilities  of  the  method  in  research,  design  and  testing  procedures. 
It  is  being  used  for  many  other  similar  purposes  in  addition  to  the  illus- 
tratio)is  given  here,  and  no  doubt  many  more  uses  will  be  found  for 
such  short  pulses  in  the  future. 

REFERENCES 

1.  S.  E.  Miller  and  A.  C.  Beck,  Low-loss  Waveguide  Transmission,  Proc.  I.R.E., 

41,  pp.  348-358,  March,  1953. 

2.  S.  E.  Miller,  Waveguide  As  a  Communication  Medium,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  33,  pp.  1209- 

1265,  Nov.,  1954. 

3.  C.  C.  Cutler,  The  Regenerative  Pulse  Generator,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  140- 

148,  Feb.,  1955. 

4.  S.  E.  Miller,  Coupled  WaveTheory  and  Waveguide  Applications,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  33, 

pp.  661-719,  May,  1954. 


Experiments  on  the  Regeneration  of 
Binary  Microwave  Pulses 

By  O.  E.  DeLANGE 

(Manuscript  received  September  7,  1955) 

A  sifnple  device  has  been  produced  for  regenerating  binary  pulses  directly 
at  microwave  frequencies.  To  determine  the  capabilities  of  such  devices  one 
of  them  was  included  in  a  circidating  test  loop  in  which  pidse  groups  were 
passed  through  the  device  a  large  number  of  titnes.  Residts  indicate  that 
even  in  the  presence  of  serious  noise  and  bandwidth  limitations  pidses  can 
be  regenerated  many  times  and  still  shotv  no  noticeable  deterioration.  Pic- 
tures of  circulated  pidses  are  included  which  illustrate  performance  of  the 
regenerator. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  chief  advantage  of  a  transmission  system  employing  Ijinary  pulses 
resides  in  the  possibility  of  regenerating  such  pulses  at  intervals  along 
the  route  of  transmission  to  prevent  the  accumulation  of  distortion  due 
to  noise,  bandwidth  limitations  and  other  effects.  This  makes  it  possible 
to  take  the  total  allowable  deterioration  of  signal  in  each  section  of  a 
long  relay  system  rather  than  having  to  make  each  link  sufficiently  good 
to  prevent  total  accumulated  distortion  from  becoming  excessive.  This 
has  been  pointed  out  by  a  number  of  writers. i-- 

W.  M.  GoodalP  has  shown  the  feasibility  of  transmitting  television 
signals  in  binary  form.  Such  transmission  reciuires  a  considerable  amount 
of  bandwidth;  a  seven  digit  system,  for  example,  would  require  trans- 
mission of  seventy  million  pulses  per  second.  This  need  for  wide  bands 
makes  the  microwave  range  an  attractive  one  in  which  to  work.  S.  E. 
Miller*  has  pointed  out  that  a  binary  system  employing  regeneration 
might  prove  to  be  especially  advantageous  in  waveguide  transmission. 

1  B.  M.  Oliver,  J.  R.  Pierce  and,  C.  E.  Shannon,  The  Pliilosophv  of  PCM,  Proc. 
I.  R.E.,  Nov.,  1948. 

'^  L.  A.  Meacham  and  Iv  Peterson,  An  Experimental  Multichannel  Pulse  Code 
Modulation  System  of  Toll  Quality,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  Jan.  1948. 

'  W.  M.  Goodall,  Television  l)y  Pulse  Code  Modulation,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  Jan.,  1951. 

*  S.  E.  Miller,  Waveguide  as  a  Communication  Medium,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  Nov.,  1954. 

67 


68  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


INPUT 


FILTER 


AUTOMATIC 

GAIN 

CONTROL 


REGENERATOR 


DETECTOR 


TIMING 

WAVE 

GENERATOR 


FILTER 


OUTPUT 


Fig.  1  —  A  typical  regenerative  repeater  shown  in  block  form. 


That  the  Bell  System  is  interested  in  the  long-distance  transmission 
of  television  and  other  broad-band  signals  is  evident  from  the  number 
of  miles  of  such  broad-band  circuits,  both  coaxial  cable  and  microwave 
radio, ^  now  in  service.  These  circuits  provide  high-grade  transmission 
because  each  repeater  was  designed  to  have  a  very  fiat  frequency  charac- 
teristic and  linear  phase  over  a  considerable  bandwidth.  Furthermore, 
these  characteristics  are  very  carefully  maintained.  For  a  binary  pulse 
system  employing  regeneration  the  requirements  on  flatness  of  band  and 
linearity  of  phase  can  be  relaxed  to  a  considerable  degree.  The  compo- 
nents for  such  a  system  should,  therefore,  be  simpler  and  less  expensive 
to  build  and  maintain.  Reduced  maintenance  costs  might  well  prove  to 
be  the  chief  virtue  of  the  binary  system. 

Since  the  chief  advantage  of  a  binary  system  lies  in  the  possibility  of 
regeneration  it  is  obvious  that  a  very  important  part  of  such  a  system  is 
the  regenerative  repeater  employed.  Fig.  1  shows  in  block  form  a  typical 
broad-band,  microwave  repeater.  Here  the  input,  which  might  come  from 
either  a  radio  antenna  or  from  a  waveguide,  is  first  passed  through  a 
proper  microwave  filter  then  amplified,  probably  by  a  traveling-wave 
amplifier.  The  amplified  pulses  of  energy  are  regenerated,  filtered,  am- 
plified and  sent  on  to  the  next  repeater.  The  experiment  to  be  described 
here  deals  primarily  with  the  block  labeled  "Regenerator"  on  Fig.  1. 

In  these  first  experiments  one  of  our  main  objectives  was  to  keep  the 
repeater  as  simple  as  possible.  This  suggests  regeneration  of  pulses 
directly  at  microwave  frequency,  which  for  this  experiment  was  chosen 
to  be  4  kmc.  It  was  suggested  by  J.  R.  Pierce  and  W.  D.  Lewis,  both  of 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  that  further  simplification  might  be  made 
possible  by  accepting  only  partial  instead  of  complete  regeneration. 
This  suggestion  was  adopted. 

For  the  case  of  complete  regeneration  each  incoming  pulse  inaugurates 
a  new  pulse,  perfect  in  shape  and  correctly  timed  to  be  sent  on  to  the 

'A.  A.  Roetken,  K.  D.  Smith  and  R.  W.  Friis,  The  TD-2  System,  B.  S.  T.  J., 
Oct.,  1951,  Part  II. 


REGENERATION    OF    BINARY   MICROWAVE    PULSES  69 

next  repeater.  Thus  noise  and  other  disturbing  effects  are  completely 
eliminated  and  the  output  of  each  repeater  is  identical  to  the  original 
signal  which  entered  the  system.  For  the  case  of  partial  regeneration 
incoming  pulses  are  retimed  and  reshaped  only  as  well  as  is  possible  with 
simple  equipment.  Obviously  the  difference  between  complete  and  partial 
.  regeneration  is  one  of  degree. 

One  object  of  the  experiment  was  to  determine  how  well  such  a  partial 
regenerator  would  function  and  what  price  must  be  paid  for  employing 
partial  instead  of  complete  regeneration.  The  regenerator  developed 
consists  simply  of  a  waveguide  hybrid  junction  with  a  silicon  crystal 
diode  in  each  side  arm.  It  appears  to  meet  the  requirement  of  simplicity 
in  that  it  combines  the  functions  of  amplitude  slicing  and  pulse  retiming 
in  one  unit.  A  detailed  description  of  this  unit  will  be  given  later.  Al- 
though the  purpose  of  this  experiment  was  to  determine  what  could  be 
accomplished  in  a  very  simple  repeater  we  must  keep  in  mind  that 
superior  performance  would  be  obtained  from  a  regenerator  which  ap- 
proached more  nearly  the  ideal.  For  some  applications  the  better  re- 
generator might  result  in  a  more  economical  system  even  though  the 
regenerator  itself  might  be  more  complicated  and  more  expensive  to 
produce. 

METHOD    OF   TESTING 

The  regeneration  of  pulses  consists  of  two  functions.  The  first  function 

is  that  of  removing  amplitude  distortions,  the  second  is  that  of  restoring 

each  pulse  to  its  proper  time.  The  retiming  problem  divides  into  two 

[parts  the  first  of  which  is  the  actual  retiming  process  and  the  second 

!  that  of  obtaining  the  proper  timing  pulses  with  which  to  perform  this 

lifunction.  In  a  practical  commercial  system  timing  information  at  a 

[repeater  would  probably  be  derived  from  the  incoming  signal  pulses. 

There  are  a  number  of  problems  involved  in  this  recovery  of  timing 

pulses.  These  are  being  studied  at  the  present  time  but  were  avoided  in 

the  experiment  described  here  by  deriving  such  information  from  the 

local  synchronizing  gear. 

Since  the  device  we  are  dealing  with  only  partially  regenerates  pulses 
it  is  not  enough  to  study  the  performance  of  a  single  unit  —  we  should 
•like  to  have  a  large  number  operating  in  tandem  so  that  we  can  observe 
'what  happens  to  pulses  as  they  pass  through  one  after  another  of  these 
Tegenerators.  To  avoid  the  necessity  of  building  a  large  number  of  units 
the  pulse  circulating  technique  of  simulating  a  chain  of  repeaters  was 
j  employed.  Fig.  2  shows  this  circulating  loop  in  block  form. 


70 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


HYBRID 

JUNCTION 

'  NO.  3 


CW 

OSCILLATOR 

(4  KMC) 


TRAVELING   WAVE 

AMPLIFIER 

(NOISE   GENERATOR) 


Fig.  2  —  The  circulating  loop. 


To  provide  RF  test  pulses  for  this  loop  the  output  of  a  4  kmc,  cw 
oscillator  is  gated  by  baseband  pulse  groups  in  a  microwave  gate  or 
modulator.  The  resultant  microwa\-e  pulses  are  fed  into  the  loop  (heavy 
line)  through  hybrid  junction  No.  1.  They  are  then  amplified  by  a  trav- 
eling-wave amplifier  the  output  of  which  is  coupled  to  the  pulse  regen- 
erator through  another  hybrid  junction  (No.  2).  The  purpose  of  this 
hybrid  is  to  provide  a  position  for  monitoring  the  input  to  the  regen- 
erator. A  monitoring  position  at  the  output  of  the  regenerator  is  pro- 
vided by  a  third  hybrid,  the  main  output  of  which  feeds  a  considerable 
length  of  waveguide  which  provides  the  necessary  loop  delay.  At  the  far 
end  of  the  waveguide  another  hybrid  (No.  4)  makes  it  possible  to  feed 
noise,  which  is  derived  from  a  traveling-wave  amplifier,  into  the  loop. 
The  combined  output  after  passing  through  a  band  pass  filter  is  ampli- 


REGENEKATION    OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE    PULSES 


71 


fied  by  another  traveling-wave  amplifier  and  fed  back  into  the  loop  in- 
put thus  completing  the  circuit. 

The  synchronizing  equipment  starts  out  with  an  oscillator  going  at 
approximately  78  kc.  A  pulse  generator  is  locked  in  step  with  this  os- 
cillator. The  output  of  the  pulser  is  a  negative  3  microsecond  pulse  as 
shown  in  Fig.  3A.  After  being  amplified  to  a  level  of  about  75  volts 
this  pulse  is  applied  to  the  helix  of  the  first  traveling-wave  tube  to  re- 
I  duce  the  gain  of  this  tube  during  the  3-microsecond  interval.  Out  of  each 
12.8/xsec  interval  pulses  are  allowed  to  circulate  for  O.S/xsec  but  are  blocked 
I  for  the  remaining  3Msec  thus  allowing  the  loop  to  return  to  the  quiescent 
i  condition  once  during  each  period  as  shown  on  Figs.  3A  and  3C. 

The  S^sec  pulse  also  synchronizes  a  short-pulse  generator.  This  unit 
delivers  pulses  which  are  about  25  millimicroseconds  long  at  the  base 
and  spaced  by  12.8/isec,  i.e.,  Avith  a  repetition  frequency  of  78  kc.  See 
Fig.  3B. 

In  order  to  simulate  a  PCM  system  it  was  decided  to  circulate  pulse 


CIRCULATING   INTERVAL 
9.8/ZS 


QUENCHING 
INTERVAL 

-3//S-*| 


(A)  GATING  CYCLE 


(B)  SHORT  SYNCHRONIZING  PULSES 


--24  GROUPS  OF  PULSES 


(C)  CIRCULATING  PULSE  GROUPS 


GROUP     GROUP     GROUP 
1  2         3 


lOOMyUS 


^      k ^^-o.4;uS-^^      I         (D)  PULSE  GROUPS  (EXPANDED) 

■     '       |300M/US|  I       I 


I 


(E)  TIMING   WAVE  (40MC)  EXPANDED 


0 
TIME 


Fig.  3  —  Timing  events  in  the  circulating  loop. 


72  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

groups  rather  than  individual  pulses  through  the  system.  These  were 
derived  from  the  pulse  group  generator  which  is  capable  of  delivering 
any  number  up  to  5  pulses  for  each  short  input  pulse.  These  pulses  are 
about  15  milli-microseconds  long  at  the  base  and  spaced  25  milli-micro- 
seconds  apart.  The  amplitude  of  each  of  these  pulses  can  be  adjusted 
independently  to  any  value  from  zero  to  full  amplitude  making  it  pos- 
sible to  set  up  any  combination  of  the  five  pulses.  These  are  the  pulses 
which  are  used  to  gate,  or  modulate,  the  output  of  the  4-kmc  oscillator. 

The  total  delay  around  the  waveguide  loop  including  TW  tubes,  etc.,' 
was  0.4)usec  or  400  milli-microseconds.  This  was  sufficient  to  allow  time 
between  pulse  groups  and  yet  short  enough  that  groups  could  circulate 
24  times  in  the  available  9.8jLtsec  interval.  This  can  be  seen  from  Figs. 
3C  and  3D.  The  latter  figure  shows  an  expanded  view  of  circulating 
pulse  groups.  The  pulses  in  Group  1  are  inserted  into  the  loop  at  the 
beginning  of  each  gating  cycle,  the  remaining  groups  result  from  circu- 
lation around  the  loop. 

When  all  five  pulses  are  present  in  the  pulse  groups  the  pulse  repeti- 
tion frequency  is  40  mc.  (Pulse  interval  25  milli-microseconds).  For  this 
condition  timing  pulses  should  be  supplied  to  the  regenerator  at  the  rate 
of  40  million  per  second.  These  pulses  are  supplied  continuously  and  not 
in  groups  as  is  the  case  with  the  circulating  pulses.  See  Fig.  BE.  In  order 
to  maintain  time  coincidence  between  the  circulating  pulses  and  the  tim- 
ing pulses  the  delay  around  the  loop  must  be  adjusted  to  be  an  exact 
multiple  of  the  pulse  spacing.  In  this  experiment  the  loop  delay  is  equal 
to  16-pulse  intervals.  Since  timing  pulses  are  obtained  by  harmonic 
generation  from  the  quenching  frequency  as  will  be  discussed  later  this 
frequency  must  be  an  exact  submultiple  of  pulse  repetition  frequency. 
In  this  experiment  the  ratio  is  512  to  1. 

Although  the  above  discussion  is  based  on  a  five-pulse  group  and 
40-mc  repetition  frequency  it  turned  out  that  for  most  of  the  experi- 
ments described  here  it  was  preferable  to  drop  out  every  other  pulse, 
leaving  three  to  a  group  and  resulting  in  a  20-mc  repetition  frequency. 
The  one  exception  to  this  is  the  limited-band-width  experiment  which 
will  be  described  later.  - 

For  all  of  the  experiments  described  here  timing  pulses  were  derived 
from  the  78-kc  quenching  frequency  by  harmonic  generation.  A  pulse 
with  a  width  of  25  milli-microseconds  and  with  a  78-kc  repetition  fre- 
quency as  shown  in  Fig.  3B  supplied  the  input  to  the  timing  wave  gen- 
erator. This  generator  consists  of  several  stages  of  limiting  amplifiers  all 
tuned  to  20  mc,  followed  by  a  locked-in  20-mc  oscillator.  The  output  of 
the  amplifier  consists  of  a  train  of  20-mc  sine  waves  with  constant  ampli- 


til 


REGENERATION   OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE   PULSES  73 

tude  for  most  of  the  12.8Msec  period  but  falling  off  somewhat  at  the  end 
of  the  period.  This-train  locks  in  the  oscillator  which  oscillates  at  a  con- 
stant amplitude  over  the  whole  period  and  at  a  frequency  of  20  mc. 
Timing  pulses  obtained  from  the  cathode  circuit  of  the  oscillator  tube 
pro^'ided  the  timing  waves  for  most  of  the  experiments.  For  the  experi- 
ment where  a  40-mc  timing  wave  was  required  it  was  obtained  from  the, 
20  mc  train  by  means  of  a  frequency  doubler.  For  this  case  it  is  necessary 
for  the  output  of  the  timing  wave  generator  to  remain  constant  in  ampli- 
tude and  fixed  in  phase  for  the  512-pulse  interval  between  synchronizing 
pulses. 

In  spite  of  the  stringent  requirements  placed  upon  the  timing  equip- 
ment it  functioned  well  and  maintained  synchronism  over  adequately 
long  periods  of  time  without  adjustment. 

PERFORMANCE    OF   REGENERATOR 

Performance  of  the  regenerator  under  various  conditions  is  recorded 
on  the  accompanying  illustrations  of  recovered  pulse  envelopes.  The 
first  experiment  was  to  determine  the  effects  of  disturbances  which  arise 
at  only  one  point  in  a  system.  Such  effects  were  simulated  by  adding 
disturbances  along  with  the  group  of  pulses  as  they  were  fed  into  the 
circulating  loop  from  the  modulator.  This  is  equivalent  to  having  them 
occur  at  only  the  first  repeater  of  the  chain. 

Some  of  the  first  experiments  also  involved  the  use  of  extraneous 
pulses  to  represent  noise  or  distortion  since  these  pulses  could  be  syn- 
chronized and  thus  studied  more  readily  than  could  random  effects.  In 
,  Fig.  4A  the  first  pulse  at  the  left  represents  a  desired  digit  pulse  with 
'  its  amplitude  increased  by  a  burst  of  noise,  the  second  pulse  represents 
'  a  clean  digit  pulse,  and  the  third  pulse  a  burst  of  noise.  This  group  is  at 
1  the  input  to  the  regenerator.  Fig.  4B  shows  the  same  group  of  pulses 
'  after  traversing  the  regenerator  once.  The  pulses  are  seen  to  be  shortened 
due  to  the  gating,  or  retiming,  action.  There  is  also  seen  to  be  some  ampli- 
tude correction,  i.e.  the  two  desired  pulses  are  of  more  nearly  the  same 
j  amplitude  and  the  undesired  pulse  has  been  reduced  in  relative  ampli- 
tude. After  a  few  trips  through  the  regenerator  the  pulse  group  was 
rendered  practically  perfect  and  remained  so  for  the  rest  of  the  twenty- 
four  trips  around  the  loop.  Fig.  4C  shows  the  group  after  24  trips.  In 
'another  experiment  pulses  were  circulated  for  100  trips  without  deteri- 
oration. Nothing  was  found  to  indicate  that  regeneration  could  not  be 
repeated  indefinitely. 
Figs.  5 A  and  5B  represent  the  same  conditions  as  those  of  4 A  and  4B 


74  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


Fig.  4  —  Effect  of  regeneration  on  disturbances  which  occur  at  only  one  re- 
peater. A  —  Input  to  regenerator,  original  signal.  B  —  Output  of  regenerator, 
first  trip.  C  —  Output  of  regenerator,  24th  trip. 


Fig.  5  —  l']ffect  of  regeneration  on  disturbances  which  occur  at  only  one  re- 
peater. A  —  Input  to  regenerator,  first  four  groups.  B  —  Output  of  regenerator, 
first  four  groups.  C  —  Output  of  regenerator,  increased  input  level. 


REGENERATION   OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE   PULSES 


75 


Fig.  6  —  Effect  of  regeneration  on  disturbances  which  occur  at  only  one  re- 
peater. A  —  Input  to  regenerator,  original  signal.  B — ^  Output  of  regenerator, 
first  trip.  C  • —  Oi^tput  of  regenerator,  24th  trip. 


except  that  the  oscilloscope  sweep  has  been  contracted  in  order  to  show 
the  progressive  effects  produced  by  repeated  passage  of  the  signal  through 
the  regenerator.  Fig.  5B  shows  that  after  the  pulses  have  passed  through 
the  regenerator  only  twice  all  visible  effects  of  the  disturbances  have 
been  removed.  Fig.  5C  shows  the  effect  of  simply  increasing  the  RF 
pulse  input  to  the  regenerator  by  approximately  4  db.  The  small  "noise" 
pulse  which  in  the  previous  case  was  quickly  dropped  out  because  of 
being  below  the  slicing  level  has  now  come  up  above  the  slicing  level 
and  so  builds  up  to  full  amplitude  after  only  a  few  trips  through  the 
regenerator.  Note  that  in  the  cases  shown  in  Figs.  4  and  5  discrimination 
against  unwanted  pulses  has  been  purely  on  an  amplitude  basis  since 
the  gate  has  been  unblocked  to  pulses  with  amplitudes  above  the  slicing 
level  whenever  one  of  these  distiu'bing  pulses  was  present. 

For  Fig.  6A  conditions  are  the  same  as  for  Fig.  4A  except  that  an  ad- 
ditional pulse  has  been  added  to  simulate  intersymbol  noise  or  inter- 
ference. Fig.  6B  indicates  that  after  only  one  trip  through  the  regenerator 
the  effect  of  the  added  pulse  is  very  small.  After  a  few  trips  the  effect 
is  completely  eliminated  leaving  a  practically  perfect  group  which  con- 
tinues on  for  24  trips  as  shown  by  Fig.  6C.  For  the  intersymbol  pulse, 
discrimination  is  on  a  time  basis  since  this  interference  occurs  at  a  time 


76 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


Fig.  7  —  Effect  of  regenerating  in  amplitude  without  retiming.  A  —  Outputof 
regenerator,  no  timing,  firt  trip.  B  —  Output  of  regenerator,  no  timing,  10th  trip. 
Output  of  regenerator,  no  timing,  23rd  trip. 

when  no  gating  pulse  is  present  and  hence  finds  the  gate  blocked  regard- 
less of  amplitude. 

To  show  the  need  for  retiming  the  pictures  shown  on  Figs.  7  and  8 
were  taken.  These  were  taken  with  the  amplitude  slicer  in  operation  but 
with  the  pulses  not  being  retimed.  Figs.  7A,  7B  and  7C,  respectively, 
show  the  output  of  the  slicer  for  the  first,  tenth  and  twenty-third  trips. 
After  ten  trips,  there  is  noticeable  time  jitter  caused  by  residual  noise 
in  the  system;  after  23  trips  this  jitter  has  become  severe  though  pulses 
are  still  recognizable.  It  should  be  pointed  out  that  for  this  experiment 
no  noise  was  purposely  added  to  the  system  and  hence  the  signal-to- 
noise  ratio  was  much  better  than  that  which  would  probably  be  encoun- 
tered in  an  operating  system.  For  such  a  system  we  would  expect  time 
jitter  effects  to  build  up  much  more  rapidly.  For  Fig.  8  conditions  are 
the  same  as  for  Fig.  7  except  that  the  pulse  spacing  is  decreased  by  the 
addition  of  an  extra  pulse  at  the  input.  Now,  after  ten  trips,  time  jitter 
is  bad  and  after  23  trips  the  pulse  group  has  become  little  more  than  a 
smear.  This  increased  distortion  is  probably  due  to  the  fact  that  less 
jitter  is  now  required  to  cause  overlap  of  pulses.  There  may  also  be  some 
effects  due  to  change  of  duty  cycle.  For  Fig.  9  there  was  neither  slicing 
nor  retiming  of  pulses.  Here,  pulse  groups  deteriorate  very  rapidly  to 
nothing  more  than  blobs  of  energy.  Note  that  there  is  an  increase  of 


i 


REGENERATION    OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE    PULSES 


77 


Fig.  8  — ■  Effect  of  regenerating  in  amplitude  without  retiming.  A  —  Output  of 
regenerator,  no  timing,  first  trip.  B  —  Output  of  regenerator,  no  timing,  10th 
trip.  C  —  Output  of  regenerator,  no  timing,  23rd  trip. 


Fig.  9  —  Pulses  circulating  through  the  loop  without  regeneration.  A  —  Origi- 
nal input.  B  —  4th  trip  without  regeneration.  C  —  20th  to  24th  trip  without  re- 
generation. 


'8 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


iWWWMMMWWIWWMilJflM^     II        .    rlilllT-     i  \m....:    iniTiinr-     IH. 


Fig.  10  —  The  regeneration  of  band-limited  pulses.  A  —  Input  to  regenerator, 
first  two  groups.  B  —  Output  of  regenerator,  first  two  groups.  C  —  Output  of 
regenerator,  24th  trip. 

amplitude  with  each  trip  around  the  loop  indicating  that  loop  gain  was 
slightly  greater  than  unity.  Without  the  sheer  it  is  difficult  to  set  the 
gain  to  exactly  unity  and  the  amplitude  tends  to  either  increase  or  de-  : 
crease  depending  upon  whether  the  gain  is  greater  or  less  than  unity. 
Results  indicated  by  the  pictures  of  Fig  9  are  possibly  not  typical  of  a 
properly  functioning  system  but  do  show  what  happened  in  this  par-  . 
ticular  sj^stem  when  regeneration  was  dispensed  with. 

Another  important  function  of  regeneration  is  that  of  overcoming  . 
band-limiting  effects.  Figs.  10  and  11  show  what  can  be  accomplished.  . 
For  this  experiment  the  pulse  groups  inserted  into  the  loop  were  as  shown  i| 
at  the  left  in  Fig.  lOA.  These  pulses  were  15  milli-microseconds  wide  at 
the  base  and  spaced  by  25  milli-microseconds  which  corresponds  to  a  j 
repetition  frequency  of  40  mc.  After  passing  through  a  band-pass  filter 
these  pulses  were  distorted  to  the  extent  shown  at  the  right  in  Fig.  lOA. 
From  the  characteristic  of  the  filter,  as  shown  on  Fig.  12,  it  is  seen  that 
the  bandwidth  employed  is  not  very  different  from  the  theoretical  min- 
imum required  for  double  sideband  transmission.  This  minimum  char- 
acteristic is  shown  by  the  dashed  lines  on  Fig.  12.  Fig.  lOB  shows  that 
at  the  output  of  the  regenerator  the  effects  of  band  limiting  have  been 
removed.  This  is  borne  out  by  Fig.  IOC  which  shows  that  after  24  trips 
the  code  group  was  still  practically  perfect.  It  should  l)e  pointed  out 
that  the  pulses  traversed  the  filter  once  for  each  trip  around  the  loop, 


REGENERATION    OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE   PULSES 


79 


Fig.  11  —  The  regeneration  of  band-limited  pulses.  A  —  Input  to  regenerator, 
first  two  groups.  B  —  Output  of  regenerator,  first  two  groups.  C  —  Output  of  re- 
generator, 24th  trip. 


that  is  for  each  trip  the  input  to  the  regenerator  was  as  shown  at  the  right 
of  Fig.  lOA  and  the  output  as  shown  by  Fig.  lOB.  It  is  important  to 
note  that  Fig.  12  represents  the  frequency  characteristic  of  a  single  hnk 
of  the  simulated  system.  The  pictures  of  Fig.  11  show  the  same  experi- 
ment but  this  time  with  a  different  code  group.  Any  code  group  which 
we  could  set  up  with  our  five  digit  pulses  was  transmitted  equally  well. 
In  order  to  determine  the  breaking  point  of  the  experimental  system, 
broad-band  noise  obtained  from  a  traveling-wave  amplifier  was  added 
into  the  system  as  shown  on  Fig.  2.  The  breaking  point  of  the  system  is 
the  noise  level  which  is  just  sufficient  to  start  producing  errors  at  the 
output  of  the  system.*  The  noise  is  seen  to  be  band-limited  in  exactly 
the  same  way  as  the  signal.  With  the  system  adjusted  to  operate  properly 
the  level  of  added  noise  was  increased  to  the  point  where  errors  became 
barely  discernible  after  24  trips  around  the  loop.  Noise  level  was  now 
reduced  slightly  (no  errors  discernible)  and  the  ratio  of  rms  signal  to  rms 
noise  measured.  Fig.  13A  shows  the  input  to  the  regenerator  for  the  23rd 
and  24th  trips  with  this  amount  of  noise  added.  Note  that  the  noise  has 

*  The  type  of  noise  employed  has  a  Gaussian  amplitude  distribution  and  there- 
fore there  was  actually  no  definite  breaking  point  —  the  rate  at  which  errors  Oc- 
curred increased  continuously  as  noise  amplitude  was  increased.  The  breaking 
point  was  taken  as  the  noise  level  at  which  errors  became  barely  discernible  on 
the  viewing  oscilloscope.  More  accurate  measurements  made  in  other  experiments 
indicate  that  this  is  a  fairly  satisfactory  criterion. 


80  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

28 


24 


IT) 

aJ2o 

03 


O 


16 


to 

If) 

g  12 
a. 

UJ 

5     8 


ll 

1 — 

1 

\ 

i 

A 

\ 

^ 

1 

1 

1 

1 
1 

/ 

< 

\ 

1 

1 

1 

/ 

/ 

\ 

1 

/ 

< 

V          h* 

--20  M 

1 

--20MC *] 

1/ 

v. 

1 

/ 

1 

■~    TX^ 

^ 

■rrD*^ 

/J 

3950       3960        3970       3980        3990       4000        4010        4020       4030       4040 
FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES   PER   SECOND 

Fig.  12  —  Characteristics  of  the  band-pass  microwave  filter. 


m     % 


I 


JYYYYYYTin 


Fig.  13.  — The  regeneration  of  pulses  in  the  presence  of  broad-hand,  random 
noise  added  at  each  repeater.  A  —  Ini)ut  to  regenerator,  23rd  and  24th  trijis, 
broad-band  noise  added.  B  —  Ini)ut  to  regenerator,  23rd  and  24th  trips,  no  added 
noise.  C  —  20-mc  timing  wave. 


\ 


KEGENERATION  OF  BINARY  MICROWAVE  PULSES 


81 


Fig.  14  —  The  regeneration  of  pulses  in  the  presence  of  interference  occurring 
at  each  repeater.  A  —  Original  signal  with  added  moduhited  carrier  interference. 
B  —  Input  to  regenerator,  24th  trip,  niochilatod  carrier  interference.  C  —  Output 
of  regenerator,  24th  trip,  modulated  carrier  interference. 


produced  a  considerable  broadening  of  the  oscilloscope  trace.  Fig.  13B 
shows  the  same  pulse  groups  with  no  added  noise.  These  photographs  are 
included  to  give  some  idea  as  to  how  bad  the  noise  was  at  the  l;)reaking 
point  of  the  system.  Of  course  maximum  noise  peaks  occur  rather  infre- 
quently and  do  not  show  on  the  photograph.  At  the  output  of  the  re- 
generator effects  due  to  noise  were  barely  discernible.  This  output  looked 
so  much  like  that  shown  at  Fig.  14C  that  no  separate  photograph  is 
shown  for  it. 

Figs.  14A,  14B  and  14C  show  the  effects  of  a  different  type  of  inter- 
ference upon  the  system.  This  disturbance  was  produced  by  adding  into 
the  system  a  carrier  of  exactly  the  same  frequency  as  the  signal  carrier 
(4  kmc)  but  modulated  by  a  14-mc  wave,  a  frequency  in  the  same  order 
as  the  pulse  rate.  Here  again  the  level  of  the  interference  was  adjusted 
to  be  just  below  the  l)reaking  point  of  the  system.  A  comparison  between 
Figs.  14B  and  14C  gives  convincing  evidence  that  the  regenerator  has 
substantially  restored  the  waveform. 

For  the  case  of  the  interfering  signal  a  ratio  of  signal  to  interference 
of  10  db  on  a  peak-to-peak  basis  was  measured  when  the  interference 
was  just  below  the  breaking  point  of  the  system.  This,  of  course,  is  4  db 
above  the  theoretical  value  for  a  perfect  regenerator.  For  the  case  of 


82  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

broad-band  random  noise  an  rms  signal  to  noise  ratio  of  20  dl)  was  meas- 
ured.* This  compares  Avith  a  ratio  of  18  db  as  measured  by  Messrs. 
Meacham  and  Peterson  for  a  system  employing  complete  regeneration 
and  a  single  repeater,  f 

Recently,  A.  F.  Dietrich  repeated  the  circulating  loop  experiment  at 
a  radio  frequency  of  11  kmc.  His  determinations  of  required  signal-to- 
noise  ratios  are  substantially  the  same  as  those  reported  here.  From  the 
various  experiments  we  conclude  that  for  a  long  chain  of  properly  func- 
tioning regenerative  repeaters  of  i-he  type  discussed  here  practically 
perfect  transmission  is  obtained  as  long  as  the  signal-to-noise  ratio  at 
the  input  to  each  repeater  is  20  db  or  better  on  an  rms  basis.  In  an  operat- 
ing system  it  might  be  desirable  to  increase  this  ratio  to  23  db  to  take 
care  of  deficiencies  in  automatic  gain  controls,  power  changes,  etc. 

From  the  experiments  we  also  conclude  that  the  price  we  pay  for  using 
partial  instead  of  complete  regeneration  is  about  3  to  4  db  increase  in 
the  required  signal-to-noise  ratio.  In  a  radio  system  which  provides  a 
fading  margin  this  penalty  would  be  less  since  the  probability  that  two 
or  more  adjacent  links  will  reach  maximum  fades  simultaneously  is  very  ' 
small.  Under  these  conditions  only  one  repeater  at  a  time  would  be  near 
the  breaking  point  and  the  system  would  behave  much  as  though  the 
repeater  provided  complete  regeneration. 

TIMING 

Although  we  have  considered  the  problem  of  retiming  of  signal  pulses 
up  to  now  we  have  not  discussed  the  problem  of  obtaining  the  necessary  ' 
timing  pulses  to  perform  this  function,  but  have  simpl}^  assumed  that  a 
source  of  such  pulses  was  available.  As  w^as  mentioned  earlier  timing   I 
pulses  would  probably  be  derived  from  the  signal  pulses  in  a  practical  »^ 
system.  These  pulses  would  be  fed  into  some  narrow  band  amplifier 
tuned  to  pulse  repetition  frequency.  The  output  of  this  circuit  could  be 
made  to  be  a  sine  wave  at  repetition  frequency  if  gaps  between  the  input 
pulses  were  not  too  great.  Timing  pulses  could  be  derived  from  this  sine 
wave.  This  timing  equipment  could  be  similar  to  that  used  in  these  ex- 
periments and  described  earlier.  Further  study  of  the  problems  of  ob- 
taining timing  information  is  being  made. 

*  For  Gaussian  noise  it  is  not  possible  to  specif.y  a  theoretical  value  of  minimum 
S/N  ratio  without  specifying  the  tolerable  percentage  of  errors.  For  the  number  of 
errors  detectable  on  the  oscilloscope  it  seems  rasonable  to  assume  a  12  db  peak 
factor  for  the  noise.  The  peak  factor  for  the  signal  is  3  db.  The  6  db  peak  S/N 
which  would  be  required  for  an  ideal  regenerator  then  becomes  15  db  on  an  rms 
basis. 

t  L.  A.  Meacham  and  E.  Peterson,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  p.  43,  Jan.,  1948. 


" 


KEGENERATION   OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE   PULSES 


83 


'  GATING 
PULSE 


INPUT 


OUTPUT 


Fig.  15A  —  Low-frequency  equivalent  of  the  partial  regenerator. 


DESCRIPTION    OF   REGENERATOR 

This  device  regenerates  pulses  by  performing  on  them  the  operations 
of  ''slicing"  and  retiming. 
An  ideal  slicer  is  a  device  with  an  input-output  characteristics  such  as 
shown  by  the  dashed  lines  of  Fig.  15C.  It  is  seen  that  for  all  input  levels 
below  the  so-called  slicing  level  transmission  through  the  device  is  zero 
but  that  for  all  amplitudes  greater  than  this  value  the  output  level  is 
finite  and  constant.  Thus,  all  input  voltages  which  are  less  than  the  slic- 
ing level  have  no  effect  upon  the  output  whereas  all  input  voltages 
greater  than  the  slicing  level  produce  the  same  amplitude  of  output. 
Normally  conditions  are  adjusted  so  that  the  slicing  level  is  at  one-half 


INPUT    LEVEL 


Fig.  15B  —  Characteristics  of  the  separate  branches  with  ditterential  bias. 


84 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


INPUT    LEVEL 


Fig.  15C  —  Resultant  output  with  differential  bias. 


BRANCH  2 
BRANCH  1 


RESULTANT 


INPUT   LEVEL 


Fig.  15D  —  Characteristics  of  the  separate  branches  and  resultant  output  with 
equal  biases. 


of  peak  pulse  amplitude  —  then  at  the  output  of  the  slicer  there  will  be 
no  effect  whatsoever  from  disturbances  unless  these  disturbances  exceed 
half  of  the  pulse  amplitude.  It  is  this  slicing  action  which  removes  the 
amplitude  effects  of  noise.  Time  jitter  effects  are  removed  by  retiming, 
i.e.,  the  device  is  made  to  have  high  loss  regardless  of  input  level  except 
at  those  times  when  a  gating  pulse  is  present. 

Fig.  15A  shows  schematically  a  low-frequency  equivalent  of  the  re- 
generator used  in  these  experiments.  Here  an  input  line  divides  into  two 
identical  branches  isolated  from  each  other  and  each  with  a  diode  shunted 
across  it.  The  outputs  of  the  two  branches  are  recombined  through  neces- 
sary isolators  to  form  a  single  output.  The  phase  of  one  branch  is  re- 
versed before  recombination,  so  that  the  final  output  is  the  difference 
between  the  two  individual  outputs. 

Fig.  15B  shows  the  input-output  characteristics  of  the  two  branches 
when  the  diodes  are  biased  back  to  be  non-conducting  by  means  of  bias 
voltages  Vi  and  V2  respectively.  For  low  levels  the  input-output  char- 
acteristic of  both  branches  will  be  linear  and  have  a  45°  slope.  As  soon 


REGENEKATION   OF   BINARY    MICROWAVE   PULSES 


85 


as  the  input  voltage  in  a  branch  reaches  a  vakie  equal  to  that  of  the  back 
bias  the  diode  will  start  to  conduct,  thus  absorbing  power  and  decrease 
the  slope  of  the  characteristic.  The  output  of  Branch  1  starts  to  flatten 
off  when  the  input  reaches  the  value  Vi  ,  while  the  output  of  Branch  2 
does  not  flatten  until  the  input  reaches  the  value  V2  .  The  combined 
output,  which  is  equal  to  the  differences  of  the  two  branch  outputs,  is 
then  that  shown  by  the  solid  line  of  Fig.  15C  and  is  seen  to  have  a  transi- 
tion region  between  a  low  output  and  a  high  output  level.  If  the  two 
branches  are  accurately  balanced  and  if  the  signal  voltage  is  large  com- 
pared to  the  differential  bias  V2  —  Vi  the  transition  becomes  sharp  and 
the  device  is  a  good  slicer. 

If  the  two  diodes  are  equally  biased  as  shown  on  Fig.  15D  the  outputs 
of  the  two  branches  should  be  nearly  equal  regardless  of  input  and  the 
total  output,  which  is  the  difference  between  the  two  branch  outputs, 
will  always  be  small. 

Fig.  16  shows  a  microwave  equivalent  of  the  circuit  of  Fig.  15A.  In 
the  microwave  structure  lengths  of  wave-guide  replace  the  wire  lines  and 
branching,  recombining  and  isolation  are  accomplished  by  means  of 
hybrid  junctions.  The  hybrid  shown  here  is  of  the  type  known  as  the  lA 
junction. 

Fig.  17  shows  another  equivalent  microwave  structure  employing  only 
one  hybrid.  This  is  the  type  used  in  the  experiments  described  here.  The 
[output  consists  of  the  combined  energies  reflected  from  the  two  side 
jarms  of  the  junction.  With  the  junction  connected  as  shown  phase  rela- 
Itionships  are  such  that  the  output  is  the  difference  between  the  reflec- 


GATING 
PULSE 


^(— r-V\^^^ 


RF 
INPUT  ARM 


PROBE 


TERMINATION 

I 


ARM  4 


I— vw-^ 


Fig.  16  —  Microwave  regenerator. 


86 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


tions  from  the  two  side  arms  so  that  when  conditions  in  the  two  arms 
are  identical  there  is  no  output.  The  crystal  diodes  coupled  to  the  side 
arms  are  equivalent  to  those  shunted  across  the  two  lines  of  Fig.  15A. 

Fig.  18,  which  is  a  plot  of  the  measured  input-output  characteristic 
of  the  regenerator  used  in  the  loop  test,  shows  how  the  device  acts  as  a 
combined  sheer  and  retimer.  Curve  A,  ol)tained  with  equal  biases  on  the 
two  diodes,  is  the  characteristic  with  no  gating  pulse  applied  i.e.  the 
diodes  are  normally  biased  in  this  manner.  It  is  seen  that  this  condition 
produces  the  maximum  of  loss  through  the  device.  By  shifting  one  diode 
bias  so  as  to  produce  a  differential  of  0.5  volt  the  characteristic  changes 
to  that  of  Curve  B.  This  differential  bias  can  be  supplied  by  the  timing 
pulse  in  such  a  way  that  this  pulse  shifts  the  characteristic  from  that 
shown  at  A  to  that  shown  at  B  thus  decreasing  the  loss  through  the  de- 
vice by  some  12  to  15  db  during  the  time  the  pulse  is  present.  In  this  way 
the  regenerator  is  made  to  act  as  a  gate  —  though  not  an  ideal  one. 

We  see  from  curve  B  that  with  the  differential  bias  the  device  has  the 
characteristic  of  a  slicer  —  though  again  not  ideal.  For  lower  levels  of 
input  there  is  a  region  over  which  the  input-output  characteristic  is 
square  law  with  a  one  db  change  of  input  producing  a  two  db  change  of 
output.  This  region  is  followed  by  another  in  which  limiting  is  fairly 
pronounced.  At  the  8-db  input  level,  which  is  the  point  at  which  limiting 
sets  in,  the  loss  through  the  regenerator  was  measured  to  be  approxi- 
mately 12  db.  The  characteristic  shown  was  found  to  be  reproducible 
both  in  these  experiments  at  4  kmc  and  in  those  bj'-  A.  F.  Dietrich  at 
11  kmc. 

For  a  perfect  slicer  only  an  infinitesimal  change  of  input  level  is  re- 


GATING 
PULSE 


■AAV-i_ 


ARM   2 


RF 

OUTPUT 


Fig,  17  —  Microwave  regenerator  employing  a  single  hybrid  junction. 


REGENERATION    OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE   PULSES 


87 


ID 

m 
o 

LU 

a 


D 


3 

o 


-10 


-12 


-14 


-16 


-18 


-20 


-22 


-24 


V,  =  0.5 
V2  =  0 

<-- 

12  DB 

LOSS 

i>— <! 

P'< 

JH   " 

^ 

/I 

^ 

1 
1 

) 
( 
1 

( 

r 

1 

6DB 
1 
1 

r 



-6DB- 

1 
1 

.--J 

(B) 

/ 

V,  =  V2 

A 

f 

/ 

/ 

Y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/I 

1 

(A)/ 

/ 

1/ 

/ 

^ 

y 

K 

/ 

6  8  10  12 

INPUT  LEVEL    IN    DECIBELS 


14 


16 


18 


Fig.  18  —  Static  characteristics  of  the  regenerator  employed  in  these  experiments. 

f}uired  to  change  the  output  from  zero  to  maximum.  The  input  level  at 
which  this  transition  takes  place  is  the  slicing  level  and  has  a  very  defi- 
nite value.  For  a  characteristic  such  as  that  shown  on  Fig.  18  this  point 
is  not  at  all  definite  and  the  question  arises  as  to  how  one  determines  the 
slicing  level  for  such  a  device.  Obviously  this  point  should  be  somewhere 
on  the  portion  of  the  characteristic  where  expansion  takes  place.  In  the 
case  of  the  circulating  loop  the  slicing  level  is  the  level  for  which  total 
gain  around  the  loop  is  exactly  etiual  to  unity.  Why  this  is  so  can  be  seen 
from  Fig.  19  which  is  a  plot  of  gain  \'ersus  input  level  for  a  repeater 
containing  a  sheer  with  a  characteristic  as  shown  by  curve  B  of  Fig.  18. 
Amplifiers  are  necessary  in  the  loop  to  make  up  for  loss  through  the  re- 
generator and  other  components.  For  Fig.  11)  we  assume  that  these 
amplifiers  have  been  adjusted  so  that  gain  around  the  loop  is  exactly 
unity  for  an  input  pulse  having  a  peak  amplitude  corresponding  to  the 


88 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


-3 


-2-1  0  1  2  3  4  5 

INPUT    LEVEL    IN    DECIBELS    ABOVE    SLICING    LEVEL 


Fig  19  —  Gain  characteristics  of  u  repeater  providing  partial  regeneration. 


point  F'  of  Fig.  18.  On  Fig.  19  all  other  levels  are  shown  in  reference  to 
this  unity-gain  value. 

From  Fig.  19  it  is  obvious  that  a  pulse  which  starts  out  in  the  loop 
with  a  peak  amplitude  exactly  equal  to  the  reference,  or  slicing  level, 
will  continue  to  circulate  without  change  of  amplitude  since  for  this 
level  there  is  unity  gain  around  the  loop.  A  pulse  with  amplitude  greater 
than  the  slicing  level  will  have  its  amplitude  increased  by  each  passage 
through  a  regenerator  until  it  eventually  reaches  a  value  of  +6  db.  It 
will  continue  to  circulate  at  this  amplitude,  for  here  also  the  gain  around 
the  loop  isVmity.*  Any  pulse  with  peak  amplitude  less  than  the  reference 
level  will  have  its  amplitude  decreased  by  successive  trips  through  the 
regenerator  and  eventually  go  to  zero.  We  also  see  that  the  greater  the 
departure  of  the  amplitude  of  a  pulse  from  the  slicing  level  the  more 
effect  the  regenerator  has  upon  it.  This  means  that  the  device  acts  much 
more  powerfully  on  low  level  noise  than  on  noise  with  pulse  peaks  near 
the  slicing  level.  As  examples  consider  first  the  case  of  noise  peaks  only 
1  db  below  slicing  level  at  the  input  (peak  S/N  =  7  db).  At  this  level 
there  is  a  1  db  loss  through  the  repeater  so  that  at  the  output  the  noise 
peaks  will  be  2  db  below  reference  to  give  a  *S/A^  ratio  of  8  db.  Next 


*  Note  that  llic  ^-fi-dl)  level  is  at  a  point  of  stable  equilibrium  whereas  at  the 
slicing  level  C(iuilil)rium  is  unstable. 


REGENERATION    OF   BINARY   MICROWAVE   PULSES  89 

consider  noise  with  a  peak  level  5  db  below  slicing  level  (S/N  =11  db) 
at  the  input.  The  loss  at  this  level  is  5  db  resulting  in  a  noise  level  10  db 
below  reference  to  give  a  S/N  ratio  of  16  db.  We  see  that  a  4  db  improve- 
ment in  S/N  ratio  at  the  input  results  in  an  8  db  improvement  in  this 
ratio  at  the  output. 

Everything  which  was  said  above  concerning  the  circulating  loop  ap- 
plies equally  to  a  chain  of  identical  repeaters.  To  set  the  effective  slicing 
level  at  half  amplitude  at  each  repeater  in  a  chain  one  would  first  find 
two  points  on  the  sheer  characteristics  such  as  P  and  P'  of  Fig.  18.  The 
point  P  should  be  in  the  region  of  expansion  and  P'  in  the  limiting  region. 
Also  the  points  should  be  so  chosen  that  a  6  db  increase  of  input  from 
that  at  point  P  results  in  a  6  db  increase  in  output  at  the  point  P'.  If 
now  at  each  repeater  we  adjust  pulse  peak  amplitude  at  the  sheer  input 
to  a  value  corresponding  to  that  at  point  P'  we  will  have  unity  gain 
from  one  repeater  to  the  next  at  levels  corresponding  to  pulse  peaks. 
We  will  also  have  unity  gain  at  levels  corresponding  to  one  half  of  pulse 
amplitude.  The  effective  slicing  level  is  thus  set  at  half  amplitude.  Ob- 
viously the  procedure  for  setting  the  slicing  level  at  some  value  other 
than  half  amplitude  would  be  practically  the  same.  It  should  be  pointed 
out  that  although  half  amplitude  is  the  preferred  slicing  level  for  base- 
band pulses  this  is  not  the  case  for  carrier  pulses.  W.  R.  Bennett  of  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  has  shown  that  for  carrier  pulses  the  probability 
that  noise  of  a  given  power  will  reduce  signal  pulses  below  half  amplitude 
is  less  than  the  probability  that  this  same  noise  will  exceed  half  ampli- 
tude. This  comes  about  from  the  fact  that  for  effective  cancellation  there 
must  be  a  180°  phase  relationship  between  noise  and  pulse  carrier.  For 
this  reason  the  slicing  level  should  be  set  slightly  above  half  amplitude 
for  a  carrier  pulse  system. 

The  difference  in  performance  between  a  perfect  sheer  and  one  with 
characteristics  such  as  shown  on  Fig.  18  are  as  follows:  For  the  perfect 
sheer  no  effects  from  noise  or  other  disturbances  are  passed  from  one 
repeater  to  the  next.  For  the  case  of  the  imperfect  regenerator  some  ef- 
fects are  passed  on  and  so  tend  to  accumulate  in  a  chain  of  repeaters. 
To  prevent  this  accumulated  noise  from  building  up  to  the  breaking 
point  of  the  system  it  is  necessary  to  make  the  signal-to-noise  ratio  at 
each  repeater  somewhat  better  than  that  which  would  be  required  with 
the  ideal  sheer.  For  the  case  of  random  noise  the  required  S/N  ratio 
seems  to  be  about  5  or  6  db  above  the  theoretical  value.  This  is  due  in 
part  to  sheer  deficiency  and  in  part  to  other  system  imperfections. 


90  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JANUARY    19o() 

CONCLUSIONS 

It  is  possible  to  build  a  simple  device  for  regenerating  pulses  directly 
at  microwave  frequencies.  A  long  chain  of  repeaters  employing  this 
regenerator  should  perform  satisfactorily  as  long  as  the  rms  signal-to- 
noise  ratio  at  each  repeater  is  maintained  at  a  value  of  20  db  or  greater. 
There  are  a  number  of  remaining  problems  which  must  be  solved  before 
we  have  a  complete  regenerative  repeater.  Some  of  these  problems  are: 

(1)  Recovery  of  information  for  retiming  from  the  incoming  pulse  train; 

(2)  Automatic  gain  or  level  control  to  set  the  slicing  level  at  each  re- 
peater; (3)  Simple,  reliable,  economical,  broad-band  microwave  ampli- 
fiers. (4)  Proper  filters  —  both  for  transmitting  and  receiving.  Traveling- 
wave  tube  development  should  eventually  result  in  amplifiers  which 
will  meet  all  of  the  requirements  set  forth  in  (3)  above.  Any  improve- 
ments which  can  be  made  in  the  regenerator  without  adding  undue 
complications  would  also  be  advantageous. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

A.  F.  Dietrich  assisted  in  setting  up  the  equipment  described  here  and 
in  many  other  ways.  The  experiment  would  not  have  been  possible  with- 
out traveling-wave  tubes  and  amplifiers  which  were  obtained  through 
the  cooperation  of  M.  E.  Hines,  C.  C.  Cutler  and  their  associates.  I  wish 
to  thank  W.  M.  Goodall,  and  J.  R.  Pierce  for  many  valuable  suggestions. 


Crossbar  Tandem  as  a  Long  Distance 
Switching  System 

By  A.  O.  ADAM 

(Manuscript  received  March  4,  1955) 

Major  toll  switching  features  are  being  added  to  the  crossbar  tandem 
switching  system  for  use  at  many  of  the  important  long  distance  switching 
centers  of  the  nationwide  network.  These  include  automatic  selection  of  one 
of  several  alternate  routes  to  a  'particular  destination,  storing  and  sending 
forward  digits  as  required,  highly  flexible  code  conversion  for  transmitting 
digits  different  from  those  received,  and  a  translating  arrangement  to  select 
the  most  direct  route  to  a  destination.  The  system  is  designed  to  serve  both 
operator  and  customer  dialed  long  distance  traffic. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  crossbar  tandem  switching  system,^  originally  designed  for  switch- 
ing between  local  dial  offices,  will  now  play  an  important  role  in  nation- 
wide dialing.  New  features  are  now  available  or  are  being  developed  that 
will  permit  this  system  to  switch  all  types  of  traffic.  As  a  result,  crossbar 
[  tandem  offices  will  have  widespread  use  at  many  of  the  important  switch- 
ing centers  of  the  nationwide  switching  network. 

This  paper  briefly  reviews  the  crossbar  tandem  switching  system  and 
its  application  for  local  switching,  followed  by  discussion  of  the  general 
aspects  of  the  nationwide  switching  plan  and  of  the  major  new  features 
required  to  adapt  crossbar  tandem  to  this  plan. 

CROSSBAR  TANDEM  OFFICES  USED  FOR  LOCAL  SWITCHING 

Crossbar  tandem  offices  are  now  used  in  many  of  the  large  metropolitan 
areas  throughout  the  country  for  interconnecting  all  types  of  local  dial 
offices.  In  these  applications  they  perform  three  major  functions.  Basi- 
cally, they  permit  economies  in  trunking  by  combining  small  amounts  of 

91 


02  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHXIf  AL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

traffic  to  and  from  the  local  offices  into  larger  amounts  for  routing  over 
common  triuik  groups  to  gain  increased  efficiency  resulting  in  fewer  over- 
all trunks. 

A  second  important  function  is  to  permit  handling  calls  economically 
between  different  types  of  local  offices  which  are  not  compatible  from  the 
standpoint  of  intercommunication  by  direct  pulsing.  Crossbar  tandem 
offices  serve  to  connect  these  offices  and  to  supply  the  conversion  from 
one  type  of  pulsing  to  another  where  such  incompatibilities  exist. 

The  third  major  function  is  that  of  centralization  of  equipment  or 
services.  For  example,  centralization  of  expensive  charging  equipment  at 
a  crossbar  tandem  office  results  in  efficient  use  of  such  equipment  and 
over-all  lower  cost  as  compared  with  furnishing  this  equipment  at  each 
local  office  requiring  it.  Examples  of  such  equipment  are  remote  control 
of  zone  registration  and  centralized  automatic  message  accounting.^  Cen- 
tralization of  other  services  such  as  weather  bureau,  time-of-day  and 
similar  services  can  be  furnished. 

The  first  crossbar  tandem  offices  were  installed  in  1941  in  New  York, 
Detroit  and  San  Francisco.  These  offices  were  equipped  to  interconnect 
local  panel  and  No.  1  crossbar  central  offices  in  the  metropolitan  areas, 
and  to  complete  calls  to  manual  central  offices  in  the  same  areas.  The  war 
years  slowed  both  development  and  production  and  it  was  not  until  the 
late  40's  that  many  features  now  in  use  were  placed  in  service.  These 
later  features  enable  customers  in  step-by-step  local  central  offices  on  the 
fringes  of  the  metropolitan  areas  to  interconnect  on  a  direct  dialing  basis 
with  metropolitan  area  customers  in  panel,  crossbar,  manual  and  step- 
by-step  central  offices.  This  same  development  also  permitted  central 
offices  in  strictly  step-by-step  areas  to  be  interconnected  by  a  crossbar 
tandem  office  where  direct  interconnecting  was  not  economical.  Facilities 
were  also  made  available  in  the  crossbar  tandem  system  for  completing 
calls  from  switchboards  where  operators  use  dials  or  multifrequency  key 
pulsing  sets. 

Since  a  crossbar  tandem  office  usually  has  access  to  all  of  the  local 
offices  in  the  area  in  which  it  is  installed,  it  is  attractive  for  handling 
short  and  long  haul  terminating  traffic.  The  addition  of  toll  terminal 
equipment  at  Gotham  Tandem  in  New  York  City  in  1947  permitted 
operators  in  New  York  State  and  northern  New  Jersey  as  well  as  distant 
operators  to  dial  or  key  pulse  directly  into  the  tandem  equipment  for 
completion  of  calls  to  approximately  350  central  offices  in  the  New  York 
metropolitan  area.  This  method  of  completing  these  calls  without  the 
aid  of  the  inward  operators  was  a  major  advance  in  using  tandem  switch- 
ing ecjuipment  for  speeding  completion  of  out-of-town  calls. 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING   SYSTEM 


93 


CROSSBAR  TANDEM  SWITCHING  ARRANGEMENT 

The  connections  in  a  crossbar  tandem  office  are  established  through 
crossbar  switches  mounted  on  incoming  trunk  link  and  outgoing  office 
link  frames  shown  on  Fig.  1.  The  connections  set  up  through  these 
switches  are  controlled  by  equipment  common  to  the  crossbar  tandem 
office  which  is  held  only  long  enough  to  set  up  each  individual  connec- 
tion. Senders  and  markers  are  the  major  common  control  circuits. 

The  sender's  function  is  to  register  the  digits  of  the  called  number, 
transmit  the  called  office  code  to  the  marker  and  then,  as  subsequently 
directed  by  the  marker,  control  the  outpulsing  to  the  next  office. 

The  marker's  function  is  to  receive  the  code  digits  from  the  sender 
for  translation,  return  information  to  the  sender  concerning  the  de- 
tails of  the  call,  select  an  idle  outgoing  trunk  to  the  called  destination 
and  close  the  transmission  path  through  the  crossbar  switches  from  the 
incoming  to  the  outgoing  trunk. 

GENERAL  ASPECTS  OF  NATIONWIDE  DIALING 

Operator  distance  dialing,  now  used  extensively  throughout  the 
country,  as  well  as  customer  direct  distance  dialing  are  based  on  the 
division  of  the  United  States  and  Canada  into  numbering  plan  areas, 
interconnected  by  a  national  network  through  some  225  Control  Switch- 
ing Points  (CSP's)  equipped  with  automatic  toll  switching  systems. 
^  An  essential  element  of  the  nationwide  dialing  program  is  a  universal 
numbering  plan^  wherein  each  customer  will  have  a  distinctive  number 
which  does  not  conflict  with  the  number  of  any  other  customer.  The 
method  employed  is  to  divide  the  United  States  and  Canada  geographi- 


INCOMING 

TRUNK    FROM 

ORIGINATING 

OFFICE 


TANDEM 

TRUNK 


TRUNK    LINK    FRAME 


9     ? 


TRUNK    LINK 
CONNECTOR 


SENDER    LINK 


SENDER    LINK 
CONTROL   CIRCUIT 


SENDER 


OFFICE    LINK    FRAME 


<?    9 


OFFICE    LINK 
CONNECTOR 


J  4_ 

MARKER 


CONNECTOR 


OUTGOING 
TRUNK 


MARKER 


Fig.  1  —  Crossbar  tandem  switching  arrangement. 


94  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

cally  into  more  than  100  numbering  plan  areas  and  to  give  each  of  these 
a  distinctive  three  digit  code  with  either  a  1  or  0  as  the  middle  digit. 
Each  numbering  plan  area  will  contain  500  or  fewer  local  central  offices 
each  of  which  will  be  assigned  a  distinctive  three-digit  office  code. 
Thus  each  of  the  telephones  in  the  United  States  and  Canada  will  have, 
for  distance  dialing  purposes,  a  distinct  identity  consisting  of  a  three 
digit  area  code,  an  office  code  of  two  letters  and  a  numeral,  and  a  sta- 
tion number  of  four  digits.  Under  this  plan,  a  customer  will  dial  7  digits 
to  reach  another  customer  in  the  same  numbering  area  and  10  digits  to 
reach  a  customer  in  a  different  numbering  area. 

A  further  reciuirement  for  nationwide  dialing  of  long  distance  calls  is 
a  fundamental  plan"*  for  automatic  toll  switching.  The  plan  provides  a 
systematic  method  of  interconnecting  all  the  local  central  offices  and 
toll  switching  centers  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  As  shown  on 
Fig.  2,  several  local  central  offices  or  "end  offices"  are  served  by  a  single 
toll  center  or  toll  point  that  has  trunks  to  a  "home"  primary  center 
which  serves  a  group  of  toll  centers.  Each  primary  center,  has  trunks  to 
a  "home"  sectional  center  which  serves  a  larger  area  of  the  country. 
Similuj-ly,  the  entire  toll  dialing  territory  is  divided  into  eleven  very 
large  areas  called  regions,  each  having  a  regional  center  to  serve  all  the 
sectional  centers  in  the  region.  One  of  the  regional  centers,  probably 
St.  Louis,  Missouri,  will  be  designated  the  national  center.  The  homing 
arrangements  are  such  that  it  is  not  necessary  for  end  offices,  toll  centers, 
toll  points  and  primary  centers  to  home  on  the  next  higher  ranking 
office  since  the  complete  final  route  chain  is  not  necessary.  For  example, 
end  offices  may  be  served  directly  from  any  of  the  higher  ranking  switch- 
ing centers  also  shown  in  Fig.  2. 

Collectively,  the  national  center,  the  regional  centers,  the  sectional 
centers  and  the  primary  centers  will  constitute  the  control  switching 
points  for  nationwide  dialing.  The  basic  switching  centers  and  homing 
arrangements  are  illustrated  in  Fig.  3. 

TANDEM  CROSSBAR  FEATURES  FOR  NATIONWIDE  DIALING 

The  broad  objective  in  developing  new  features  for  crossbar  tandem 
is  to  provide  a  toll  switching  system  that  can  be  used  in  cities  where 
the  large  capacity  and  the  full  versatilit}^  of  the  No.  4  toll  crossbar 
switching  system-''  may  not  be  economical. 

The  application  of  crossbar  tandem  two-wire  switching  systems  at 
primary  and  sectional  centers  has  been  made  possible  by  the  extended 
use  of  high  speed  carrier  systems.  The  echoes  at  the  2-wire  crossbar 
tandem  switching  offices  can  be  effectively  reduced  by  providing  a  high 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING   SYSTEM 


95 


office  balance  and  by  the  use  of  impedance  compensators  and  fixed  pads. 
A  well  balanced  two-wire  switching  system,  proper  assignment  of  inter- 
toll  trunk  losses,  and  the  use  of  carrier  circuits  with  high  speed  of  propa- 
gation will  permit  through  switching  Mdth  little  or  no  impairment  from 
an  echo  standpoint. 

The  new  features  for  crossbar  tandem  will  provide  arrangements 
necessary  for  operation  at  control  switching  points  (CSP's).  These  in- 
clude automatic  alternate  routing,  the  ability  to  store  and  send  forward 


TP 


e 


I      I        NC  =   NATIONAL    CENTER 
RC  =   REGIONAL    CENTER 
/\       SC  =   SECTIONAL    CENTER 
(      J      PC  =    PRIMARY    CENTER 

Fig.  2  —  Homing  arrangement  for  local  central  offices  and  toll  centers. 


TC  =   TOLL   CENTER 
TP   =   TOLL   POINT 
EG   =   END   OFFICE 


96 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING    SYSTEM 


97 


digits  as  required,  highly  flexible  code  conversion  (transmitting  forward 

i  different  digits  for  the  area  or  office  code  instead  of  the  dialed  digits), 

prefixing  digits  ahead  of  the  called  office  code,  and  six-digit  translation. 

ALTERNATE  ROUTING 

The  control  switching  points  will  be  interconnected  by  a  final  or 
"backbone"  network  of  intertoll  trunks  engineered  so  that  very  few 
calls  will  be  delayed.  In  addition,  direct  circuits  between  individual 
switching  offices  of  all  classes  will  be  provided  as  warranted  by  the 
traffic  density.  These  are  called  "high-usage"  groups  and  are  not  en- 
gineered to  handle  all  the  traffic  offered  to  them  during  the  busy  hour. 
Traffic  offered  to  a  high-usage  group  which  finds  all  trunks  busy  will  be 
automatically  rerouted  to  alternate  routes®-^  consisting  of  other  high- 
usage  groups  or  to  the  final  trunk  group.  The  abi.ity  of  the  crossbar 
tandem  equipment  at  the  control  switching  point  to  select  one  of  several 
alternate  routes  automatically,  when  all  choices  in  the  first  route  are 
busy,  contributes  to  the  economy  of  the  plant  and  provides  additional 
protection  against  complete  interruption  of  service  when  all  circuits  on 
a  particular  route  are  out  of  service. 

Fig.  4  shows  a  hypothetical  example  of  alternate  routing  when  a 
crossbar  tandem  office  at  South  Bend,  Indiana,  receives  a  call  destined 
for  ^Youngstown,  Ohio.  To  select  an  idle  path,  using  this  plan,  the 
switching  equipment  at  South  Bend  first  tests  the  direct  trunks  to 
Youngstown.  If  these  are  all  busy,  it  tests  the  direct  trunks  to  Cleveland 
where  the  call  would  be  completed  over  the  final  group  to  Youngstown. 
If  the  group  to  Cleveland  is  also  busy,  South  Bend  would  test  the  group 


CHICAGO 


SOUTH    BEND 

CROSSBAR 

TANDEM 


CLEVELAND 


-YOUNGSTOWN 


ITT5BURGH 


Fig.  4  —  Toll  network  —  alternate  routing. 


98 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


in 

UJ 

I- 
o 
o 
a. 

m 
t- 
< 

2 

a. 
m 
I- 
_j 
< 


mm 

•"^^ 
1-     I- 

5m< 

2cD2 
_JOO 

^^ 

<    o 

O      1- 


gur-H 


I-  < 

2 


^       b 


UJ 

z  o 

UJ     Q 

rO 


UJ 

z 


i 


Ul 


UJ 


m 


X 


ll 


C\j 


I 


UJ 


(To: 

1- 


X' 


Z 


o    o     o 


UJ 

<> 


m 


UJ 
(0 


Hi' 


Hi' 


X 


oo 


2-mmiiiii 


o 
(J 


X 


a 

UJ 
UJQ 

i£2 

U.UJ 

°5 
QO 

uicr 

-lU. 

_j 

<UJ 

UQ 
Ol 
Ul 


D 
CD 

Z 

^ 
a. 

H 
(- 

o 

UJ 


Hi 


2  in 


C 

3 

O 


o 

O 
+2 


Hi 


^ 


irt 

2 

O 

UJI- 

oo 

ZUJ 

aim 
I- to 

DO 

otr 

I 
I 
I 
I 


I  I 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING   SYSTEM  99 

to  Pittsburgh  and  on  its  last  attempt  it  would  test  the  final  group  to 
Indianapolis.  If  the  call  were  routed  to  Pittsburgh  or  Indianapolis,  the 
switching  equipment  at  these  points  would  attempt  by  first  choice  and 
alternate  routes  to  reach  Youngstown.  The  final  choice  backbone  route 
would  be  via  Indianapolis,  Chicago,  St.  Louis,  Pittsburgh,  Cleveland  to 
Youngstown.  Should  all  the  trunks  in  any  of  the  final  groups  tested  be 
busy  no  further  attempt  to  complete  the  call  is  made.  It  is  unlikely 
that  so  many  alternate  routes  would  be  provided  in  actual  practice 
since  crossbar  tandem  can  test  only  a  maximum  of  240  trunks  on  each 
call  and,  in  the  case  illustrated,  the  final  trunk  group  to  Indianapolis 
may  be  quite  large. 

The  method  employed  by  the  crossbar  tandem  marker  in  selecting 
the  direct  route  and  subsequent  alternate  routes  is  shown  in  simplified 
form  on  Fig.  5.  As  a  result  of  the  translating  operation,  the  marker 
selects  the  first  choice  route  relay,  corresponding  to  the  called  destina- 
tion. Each  route  relay  has  a  number  of  contacts  which  are  connected  to 
supply  all  the  information  recjuired  for  proper  routing  of  the  call.  Several 
of  these  contacts  are  used  to  indicate  the  equipment  location  of  the 
trunks  and  the  number  of  trunks  to  be  tested.  The  marker  tests  all  of 
the  trunks  in  the  direct  route  and  if  they  are  busy,  the  search  for  an 
idle  trunk  continues  in  the  first  alternate  route  which  is  brought  into 
play  from  the  "route  advance"  cross-connection  shown  on  the  sketch. 
As  many  as  three  alternate  routes  in  addition  to  the  first  choice  route 
can  be  tested  in  this  manner. 

STORING  AND  SENDING  FORWARD  DIGITS  AS  REQUIRED 

The  crossbar  tandem  equipment  at  control  switching  points  must 
store  all  the  digits  received  and  send  forward  as  many  as  are  required  to 
complete  the  call. 

The  called  number  recorded  at  a  switching  point  is  in  the  form  of 
ABX-XXXX  if  the  call  is  to  be  completed  in  the  same  numbering 
plan  area.  If  the  called  destination  is  in  another  area,  the  area  code 
XOX  or  XIX  precedes  the  7  digit  number.  The  area  codes  XOX  or  XIX 
and  the  local  office  code  ABX  are  the  digits  used  for  routing  purposes 
and  are  sufficient  to  complete  the  call  regardless  of  the  number  of  switch- 
ing points  involved.  Each  control  switching  point  is  arranged  to  ad- 
vance the  call  towards  its  destination  when  these  codes  are  received. 
If  the  next  switching  point  is  not  in  the  numbering  area  of  the  called 
telephone,  the  complete  ten-digit  number  is  needed  to  advance  the 
call  toward  its  destination.  If  the  next  switching  point  is  in  the  num- 


100  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

bering  area  of  the  called  telephone  the  area  code  is  not  needed  and  seven 
digits  will  suffice  for  completing  the  call. 

For  example,  suppose  a  call  is  originated  by  a  customer  in  South 
Bend,  Indiana,  destined  for  customer  NAtional  4-1234  in  Washington, 
D.C.  If  it  is  assumed  that  the  route  to  Washington  is  via  a  switching 
center  in  Pittsburgh,  then  the  crossbar  tandem  equipment  at  South 
Bend  pulses  forward  to  Pittsburgh  202-NA4-1234,  202  being  the  area 
code  for  the  District  of  Columbia.  Pittsburgh  in  turn  will  delete  the 
area  code  and  send  NA4-1234  to  the  District  of  Columbia  terminating 
area. 

As  another  example,  suppose  the  crossbar  tandem  office  at  South 
Bend  receives  a  call  from  some  foreign  area  destined  to  a  nearby  step- 
by-step  end  office  in  Michigan.  The  crossbar  tandem  equipment  re- 
ceives and  stores  a  ten-digit  number  comprising  the  area  code  and  the- 
seven  digits  for  the  office  code  and  station  number.  Assuming  that 
direct  trunks  to  the  step-by-step  end  office  in  Michigan  are  available, 
the  area  code  and  office  code  are  deleted  and  the  line  number  only  is 
pulsed  forward.  To  meet  all  conditions,  the  equipment  is  arranged  to 
permit  deletion  of  either  the  first  three,  four,  five  or  six  digits  of  a  ten- 
digit  number. 

CODE  CONVERSION 

At  the  present  time,  some  step-by-step  primary  centers  reach  other 
offices  by  the  use  of  routing  codes  that  are  different  from  those  assigned 
under  the  national  numbering  plan.  This  arrangement  is  used  to  obtain 
economies  in  switching  equipment  of  the  step-by-step  plant  and  is 
accetpable  with  operator  originated  calls.  However,  with  the  intro- 
duction of  customer  direct  distance  dialing,  it  is  essential  that  the  codes 
used  by  customers  be  in  accordance  with  the  national  numbering  plan. 
The  crossbar  tandem  control  switching  point  must  then  automatically 
provide  the  routing  codes  needed  by  the  intermediate  step-by-step 
primary  centers.  This  is  accomplished  by  the  code  conversion  feature 
which  substitutes  the  arbitrary  digits  required  to  reach  the  called  office 
through  the  step-by-step  systems.  Fig.  6  illustrates  an  application  of 
this  feature.  It  shows  a  crossbar  tandem  office  arranged  for  completing 
calls  through  a  step-by-step  toll  center  to  a  local  central  office,  GArden 
8,  in  an  adjacent  area.  A  call  reaching  the  crossbar  tandem  office  for  a 
customer  in  this  office  arrives  with  the  national  number,  218-GA8-1234. 
To  complete  this  call,  the  crossbar  tandem  equipment  deletes  the  area 
code  218  and  pulses  forward  the  local  office  code  and  number.  If  the 


« 


CROSSBAK   TANDEM   AS    A   TOLL    SWITCHING    SYSTEM 


101 


call  is  switched  to  an  alternate  route  via  the  step-by-step  primary 
center,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  crossbar  tandem  equipment  to  delete 
the  area  code  218  and  substitute  the  arbitrary  digits  062  to  direct  the 
call  through  the  switches  at  the  primary  center,  since  the  toll  center 
requires  the  full  seven  digit  number  for  completing  the  call. 

PREFIXING  DIGITS 

It  may  be  necessary  to  route  a  call  from  one  area  to  another  and  back 
to  the  original  area  for  completion.  Such  a  situation  arises  on  a  call 
from  Amarillo  to  Lubbock,  Texas,  both  in  area  915  when  the  crossbar 
tandem  switching  equipment  finds  all  of  the  direct  paths  from  Amarillo 
to  Lubbock  busy  as  illustrated  on  Fig.  7.  The  call  could  be  routed  to 
Lubbock  via  Oklahoma  City  which  is  in  area  405.  A  seven-digit  number 
for  example,  MAin  2-1234,  is  received  in  the  crossbar  tandem  office  at 
Amarillo.  Assuming  that  the  call  is  to  be  switched  out  of  the  915  area 
through  the  405  area  and  back  to  the  915  area  for  completion,  it  is 
necessary  for  the  crossbar  tandem  office  in  Amarillo  to  prefix  915  to  the 
MAin  2-1234  number  so  that  the  switching  equipment  in  Oklahoma 
City  will  know  that  the  call  is  for  the  915  area  and  not  for  the  405  area. 

Prefixing  digits  may  also  be  needed  at  crossbar  tandem  offices  to 
route  calls  through  step-by-step  primary  centers.  The  crossbar  tandem 
office  in  Fig.  8  receives  the  seven  digit  number  MA2-1234  for  a  call  to  a 


701 

AREA 


218 

AREA 


NUMBER 

RECEIVED 

218-GA8-1234 


CROSSBAR 
TANDEM 


NUMBER 

OUTPULSED 

062-GA8-1234 


STEP-BY-STEP 
PRIMARY  CENTER 


ALTERNATE 
ROUTE 

DIRECT 
ROUTE 


GA8-I234 


i^ 


GA8-t234 


SX  S 

TOLL 
CENTER 


GA8-1234 


LOCAL 
CUSTOMER 


Fig.  6  —  Code  conversion. 


102 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


customer  in  the  Madison  office  in  the  same  area.  However,  since  the 
toll  center  needs  the  full  seven  digit  number  for  completing  the  call  and 
since  the  step-by-step  switches  at  the  primary  center  "use  up"  two 
digits  (04)  for  its  switching,  the  crossbar  tandem  equipment  must 
prefix  04  to  the  seven  digit  number. 


METHOD  OF  DETERMINING  DIGITS  TO  BE  TRANSMITTED 

The  circuitry  involved  for  transmitting  digits  as  received,  prefixing, 
code  conversion  and  for  deletion  involves  both  marker  and  sender 
functions.  The  senders  have  ten  registers  (1  to  10)  for  storing  incoming 
digits  and  three  registers  (A A,  AB,  AC)  for  storing  the  arbitrary  digits 
that  are  used  for  prefixing  and  code  conversion. 

On  a  ten-digit  call  into  a  crossbar  tandem  switchmg  center  the  area 
code  XOX,  the  office  code  ABX  and  the  station  number  XXXX  are 
stored  in  the  inpulsing  or  receiving  registers  of  the  sender.  The  code 
digits  XOX-ABX  are  sent  to  the  marker  which  translates  them  to 
determine  which  of  the  digits  received  by  the  sender  should  be  outpulsed. 
It  also  determines  whether  arbitrary  digits  should  be  transmitted  ahead 
of  the  digits  received  and,  if  so,  the  value  of  the  arbitrary  digits  to  be 
stored  in  the  sender  registers  AA,  AB  and  AC.  Case  1  of  Fig.  9  assumes 
that  a  ten-digit  number  has  been  stored  in  the  sender  registers  1  to  10 


915 

AREA 


INCOMING 
TOLL  CALL 


LOCAL 

OFFICE 


AMARILLO 
CROSSBAR 

TANDEM 
OFFICE 


NUMBER 

RECEIVED 

MA2-1234 


405 
AREA 


^< 

■^ 

.-^ 

^^o^^ 

.-^^^"J^^' 

OKLAHOMA  CITY 
TOLL  OFFICE 

LUBBOCK 

TOLL 

OFFICE 

MA  2 

LOCAL 

CO. 

CUSTOMER 

MA  2-1234 


Fig.  7  —  Prefixing. 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING   SYSTEM 


103 


and  that  the  marker  has  mformed  the  sender  the  called  number  is  to  be 
sent  as  received.  The  outpulsing  control  circuit  is  connected  to  each 
register  in  turn  through  the  steering  circuit  SI,  S2,  etc.  and  sends  the 
digits  stored. 

Case  2  illustrates  a  situation  where  the  sender  has  stored  ten  digits 
in  registers  1  to  10  and  received  information  from  the  marker  to  delete 
the  digits  in  registers  1  to  3  inclusive  and  to  substitute  the  arbitrary 
digits  stored  in  registers  AA,  AB  and  AC.  The  outpulsing  circuit  is 
first  connected  to  register  AA  through  steering  circuit  PSl,  then  to  AB 
through  PS2,  continuing  in  a  left  to  right  sequence  until  all  digits  are 
outpulsed. 

Case  3  covers  a  condition  where  the  sender  has  stored  seven  digits  and 
has  obtained  information  from  the  marker  to  prefix  the  two  digits 
stored  in  registers  AB  and  AC.  Outpulsing  begins  at  the  AB  register 
through  steering  circuit  PS2  and  then  advances  through  steering  circuit 
PS3  to  the  AC  register,  continuing  in  a  left  to  right  seciuence  until  all 
digits  have  been  transmitted. 

These  are  only  a  few  of  the  many  combinations  that  are  used  to  give 
the  crossbar  tandem  control  switching  equipment  complete  pulsing 
flexibility. 


SIX-DIGIT  TRANSLATION 

Six-digit  translation  will  be  another  feature  added  to  the  crossbar 
tandem  system.  When  only  three  digits  are  translated,  it  is  necessary  to 
direct  all  calls  to  a  foreign  area  over  a  single  route.  The  ability  to  trans- 
late six  digits  permits  the  establishment  of  two  or  more  routes  from  the 
switching  center  to  or  towards  the  foreign  area.  This  is  shown  in  Fig. 


LOCAL 
OFFICE 


NUMBER  OUTPULSED 
04-MA2-1234 


MADISON 
OFFICE 


MA2-I234 


CROSSBAR 
TANDEM 

t 

■     » 

' 

' — 1  n 

MA2- 
1 

1234 

EIVED 
4 



4 

1 
1 

TOLL 
CENTER 

— >- 

MADISON   2- 

1234 


STEP-BY-STEP 
PRIMARY  CENTER 


Fig.  8  —  Prefixing. 


104  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


f/l 


10  with  Madison  and  Milwaukee,  Wisconsin,  in  area  414  and  Belle 
Plaine  Crossbar  Tandem  in  Chicago,  Illinois,  in  area  312.  An  economical 
trunking  plan  may  provide  for  direct  circuits  from  Chicago  to  each 
place.  If  only  three-digit  translation  were  provided  in  the  Chicago 
switching  equipment,  the  route  to  both  places  would  be  selected  as  a 
result  of  the  translation  of  the  414  area  code  alone  and,  therefore,  calls 
to  central  offices  reached  through  Madison,  would  need  to  be  routed 
via  Milwaukee.  This  involves  not  only  the  extra  trunk  mileage,  ])ut 
also  the  use  of  an  extra  switching  point.  With  six-digit  translation,  both 
the  area  code  and  the  central  office  code  are  analyzed,  making  it 
possible  to  select  the  direct  route  to  either  city. 

Six-digit  translation  in  crossbar  tandem  will  involve  primarily  the 
use  of  a  foreign  area  translator  and  a  marker.  The  translator  will  have 
a  capacity  for  translation  of  five  foreign  areas  and  for  60  routes  to  each 
area.  Since  the  translator  holding  time  is  very  short,  one  translator  is 
sufficient  to  handle  all  of  the  calls  requiring  six-digit  translation,  but 
two  are  always  provided  for  hazard  and  maintenance  reasons. 

On  a  call  requiring  six-digit  translation  the  first  three  digits  are 


CASE    1                ^ 

DIGITS   RECEIVED 

t 

2 

3 

-IMPULSING 
4             5 

REGISTERS - 
6            7 

8 

9 

10 

\ 

X 

0 

X 

A 

B 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

. 

. 

; 

i. 

OUTPULSING 
CONTROL 

;Si 

:  Sd 

S  J 

Sa     - 

S3 

So 

.  S  / 

-  So 

b»      *  oiu 

CASE    2 

DIGITS    RECEIVED 


OUTPULSING 
CONTROL 


0 


DIGITS    CODE    CONVERTED 
AA         AB         AC 


;:  PS1 


X' 


PS2   ;:PS3   ;:S4     ):S6     ~:S6     ;;S7     ::S8 


10 


59     ;:S10 


CASE  3 

DIGITS    RECEIVED 


DIGITS    PREFIXED 
AB         AC 


B' 


C 


OUTPULSING 
CONTROL 


i  PS2   : :  P 


B 


PS3     •:SI       ':S2      ::S3     :;S4     : :  S5      :'S6      ■;S7 


Fig.  9  —  Method  used  for  outpulsing  digits. 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING   SYSTEM 


105 


translated  in  the  marker  and  the  second  three  digits  in  a  foreign  area 
translator  which  is  associated  with  the  marker.  Fig.  11  shows,  in  simpli- 
fied form,  how  this  translation  is  accomplished. 

The  first  three  digits,  corresponding  to  the  area  code,  are  received  by 
a  relay  code  tree  in  the  marker  which  translates  it  into  one  of  a  thousand 
code  points.  This  code  point  is  cross-connected  to  the  particular  relay  of 
the  five  area  relays  A(3-A4  which  has  been  assigned  to  the  called  area. 
A  foreign  area  translator  is  now  connected  to  the  marker  and  a  corre- 
sponding area  relay  is  operated  in  it.  The  translator  also  receives  the 
called  office  code  from  the  sender  via  the  marker  and  by  means  of  a 
relay  code  tree  similar  to  that  in  the  marker  translates  the  office  code 
to  one  of  a  thousand  code  points.  This  code  point  plus  the  area  relay  is 
sufficient  to  determine  the  actual  route  to  be  used.  As  shown  on  the 
sketch,  wires  from  each  of  the  code  points  are  threaded  through  trans- 
formers, two  for  each  area.  When  the  marker  is  ready  to  receive  the 
route  information,  a  surge  of  current  is  sent  through  one  of  these  threaded 
wires  which  produces  a  voltage  in  the  output  winding  to  ionize  the 
T-  and  U-  tubes.  Only  the  tubes  associated  with  the  area  involved  in 
the  translation  pass  current  to  operate  one  each  of  the  eight  T-  and  U- 
relays.  This  information  is  passed  to  the  marker  and  registered  on 
corresponding  tens  and  units  relays.  These  operate  a  route  relay  which 


WISCONSIN 


MICH. 


J 


ILLINOIS 


CHICAGO  = 
'  f BELLE  \ 

1     AREA        IplaINeJ 
\312  I 

^- — 1 


I  N  D. 


ROUTE    WITHOUT   6   DIGIT   TRANSLATION 


ROUTE   WITH   6   DIGIT    TRANSLATION 


Fig.  10  —  Six-digit  translation. 


106  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


Fig.  11  —  Method  used  for  foreign  area  translation. 


CROSSBAR   TANDEM   AS   A   TOLL   SWITCHING   SYSTEM  107 

provides  all  the  information  necessary  for  routing  the  call  to  the  central 
office  involved. 

CUSTOMER  DIRECT  DISTANCE  DIALING 

Crossbar  tandem  will  provide  arrangements  permitting  customers  in 
step-by-step  offices  to  dial  their  own  calls  anywhere  in  the  country. 
Centralized  automatic  message  accounting  previously  mentioned  will 
be  used  for  charging  purposes.  While  the  basic  plan  for  direct  distance 
dialing  provides  for  the  dialing  of  either  seven  or  ten  digits,  it  will  be 
necessary  for  the  customer  in  step-by-step  areas  to  prefix  a  three-digit 
directing  code,  such  as  112,  to  the  called  number.  This  directing  code 
is  required  to  direct  the  call  through  the  step-by-step  switches  to  the 
crossbar  tandem  office  so  that  the  seven  or  ten  digit  number  can  be 
registered  in  the  crossbar  tandem  office. 

When  a  customer  in  a  step-by-step  office  originates  a  call  to  a  distant 
customer  whose  national  number  is  915-CH3-1234,  he  first  dials  the 
directing  code  112  and  then  the  ten-digit  number.  The  dialing  of  112 
causes  the  selectors  in  the  step-by-step  office  to  select  an  outgoing  trunk 
to  the  crossbar  tandem  office.  The  incoming  trunk  in  the  crossbar  tandem 
office  has  quick  access  to  a  three-digit  register.  The  register  must  be 
connected  during  the  interval  between  the  last  digit  of  the  directing 
code  and  the  first  digit  of  the  national  number  to  insure  registration  of 
this  number.  This  arrangement  is  used  to  permit  the  customer  to  dial 
all  digits  without  delay  and  avoids  the  use  of  a  second  dial  tone.  If  this 
arrangement  were  not  used,  the  customer  would  be  required  to  wait 
after  dialing  the  112  until  the  trunk  in  the  tandem  crossbar  office  could 
gain  access  to  a  sender  through  the  sender  link  circuit  which  would 
then  signal  the  customer  to  resume  dialing  by  returning  dial  tone. 

After  recording  the  915  area  code  digits  in  the  case  assumed,  the 
CH3-1234  portion  of  the  number  is  registered  directly  in  the  tandem 
sender  which  has  been  connected  to  the  trunk  while  the  customer  was 
dialing  915.  When  the  sender  is  attached  to  the  trunk,  it  signals  the 
three-digit  register  to  transfer  the  915  area  code  digits  to  it  via  a  con- 
nector circuit.  Thus  when  dialing  is  complete,  the  entire  number  915- 
CH3-1234  is  registered  in  the  sender. 

Crossbar  tandem  is  being  arranged  to  serve  customers  of  panel  and 
No.  1  crossbar  offices  for  direct  distance  dialing.  At  the  present  time, 
ten  digit  direct  distance  dialing  is  not  available  to  these  customers 
because  the  digit  storing  equipments  in  these  offices  are  limited  to 
eight  digits.  Developments  now  under  way,  will  provide  arrangements 
for  expanding  the  digit  capacity  in  the  local  offices  so  that  ultirnately 


108  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

calls  from  custoniers  in  panel  and  No.  1  crossbar  offices  may  be  routed 
through  crossbar  tandem  cr  other  equivalent  offices  to  telephones 
anywhere  in  the  country. 

CONCLUSION 

The  new  features  developed  for  crossbar  tandem  will  adapt  it  to 
switching  all  types  of  traffic  at  many  important  switching  centers  of 
the  nationwide  toll  network.  Of  the  225  important  toll  switching  centers 
now  contemplated,  it  is  expected  that  about  80  of  these  will  be  ecjuipped 
with  crossbar  tandem. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Collis,  R.  E.,  Crossbar  Tandem  System,  A.I.E.E.  Trans.,  69,  pp.  997-1004, 1950. 

2.  King,  G.  v..  Centralized  Automatic  Message  Accounting,  B.S.T.J.,  33,  pp. 

1331-1342,  1952. 

3.  Nunn,  W.  H.,  Nationwide  Numbering  Plan,  B.S.T.J.,  31,  pp.  851-859,  1952. 

4.  Pilliod,  J.  J.,  Fundamental  Plans  for  Toll  Telephone  Plant,  B. S.T.J. ,  31,  pp. 

832-850,  1952. 

5.  Shipley,  F.  F.,  Automatic  Toll  Switching  Systems,  B.S.T.J.,  31,  pp.  860-882, 

1952. 

6.  Truitt,  C.  J.,  Traffic  Engineering  Techniques  for  Determining  Trunk  Require- 

ments in  Alternate  Routing  Trunk  Networks,  B.S.T.J.,  33,  pp.  277-302,  1954. 

7.  Clos,  C,  Automatic  Alternate  Routing  of  Telephone  Traffic,  Bell  Laboratories 

Record,  32,  pp.  51-57,  Feb.  1954. 


Growing  Waves  Due  to  Transverse 

Velocities 

By  J.  R.  PIERCE  and  L.  R.  WALKER 

(Manuscript  received  March  30,  1955) 

This  paper  treats  propagation  of  slow  waves  in  two-dimensional  neu- 
tralized electron  floiv  in  which  all  electrons  have  the  same  velocity  in  the 
direction  of  propagation  hut  in  which  there  are  streams  of  two  or  more  veloci- 
ties normal  to  the  direction  of  propagation.  In  a  finite  beam  in  which 
'  electrons  are  reflected  elastically  at  the  boundaries  and  in  which  equal  dc 
currents  are  carried  by  electrons  with  transverse  velocities  -\-Ui  and  —  Wi  , 
there  is  an  antisi/mmetrical  growing  ivave  if 

Up   ~  {rUi/Wf 

and  a  symmetrical  growing  wave  if 


y- 


i{Tu,/wy 


Here  cop  is  plasma  frequency  for  the  total  charge  density  and  W  is  beam 
width. 

INTKODUCTION 

i  It  is  well-known  that  there  can  be  growing  waves  in  electron  flow  when 
the  flow  is  composed  of  several  streams  of  electrons  having  different 
velocities  in  the  direction  of  propagation  of  the  waves.  '  While  Birdsall 
considers  the  case  of  growing  waves  in  electron  flow  consisting  of  streams 
which  cross  one  another,  the  growing  waves  which  he  finds  apparently 
occur  when  two  streams  have  different  components  of  velocity  in  the 
direction  of  propagation. 

This  paper  shows  that  there  can  be  growing  waves  in  electron  flow 
consisting  of  two  or  more  streams  with  the  same  component  of  velocity 
in  the  direction  of  wave  propagation  but  with  different  components  of 
velocity  transverse  to  the  direction  of  propagation.  Such  growing  Avaves 
can  exist  when  the  electric  field  varies  in  strength  across  the  flow.  Such 
waves  could  result  in  the  amplification  of  noise  fluctuations  in  electron 

'  flow.  They  could  also  be  used  to  amplify  signals. 

109 


110  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

Actual  electron  flow  as  it  occurs  in  practical  tubes  can  exhibit  trans- 
verse velocities.  For  instance,  in  Brillouin  flow,  '  •  if  we  consider  electron 
motion  in  a  coordinate  system  rotating  with  the  Larmor  frequency  we 
see  that  electrons  with  transverse  velocities  are  free  to  cross  the  beam 
repeatedly,  being  reflected  at  the  boundaries  of  the  beam.  The  trans- 
verse \-elocities  may  be  completely  disorganized  thermal  velocities,  or 
they  may  be  larger  and  better-organized  velocities  due  to  aberrations  at 
the  edges  of  the  cathode  or  at  lenses  or  apertures.  Two-dimensional 
Brillouin  flow  allows  similar  transverse  motions. 

It  would  be  difficult  to  treat  the  case  of  Brillouin  or  Brillouin-like  flow 
with  transverse  velocities.  Here,  simpler  cases  with  transverse  velocities 
will  be  considered.  The  first  case  treated  is  that  of  infinite  ion-neutra- 
lized two-dimensional  flow  with  transverse  velocities.  The  second  case 
treated  is  that  of  two-dimensional  flow  in  a  beam  of  finite  width  in  which 
the  electrons  are  elastically  reflected  at  the  boundaries  of  the  beam. 
Growing  waves  are  found  in  both  cases,  and  the  rate  of  growth  may  be 
large. 

In  the  case  of  the  finite  beam  both  an  antisymmetric  mode  and  a 
symmetric  mode  are  possible.  Here,  it  appears,  the  current  density 
required  for  a  growing  wave  in  the  symmetric  mode  is  about  ^^  times 
as  great  as  the  current  density  required  for  a  growing  wa^•e  in  the  anti- 
symmetric mode.  Hence,  as  the  current  is  increased,  the  first  growing 
waves  to  arise  might  be  antisymmetric  modes,  which  could  couple  to  a 
symmetrical  resonator  or  helix  only  through  a  lack  of  symmetry  or 
through  high-level  effects. 

1 .  Infinite  two-dimensional  flow 

Consider  a  two-dimensional  problem  in  which  the  potential  varies 
sinusoidally  in  the  y  direction,  as  exp{—j^z)  in  the  z  direction  and  as  exp 
(jut)  with  time.  Let  there  be  two  electron  streams,  each  of  a  negative 
charge  po  and  each  moving  with  the  velocity  ?/o  in  the  z  direction,  but 
with  velocities  Wi  and  —ih  respectively  in  the  y  direction.  Let  us  denote 
ac  quantities  pertaining  to  the  first  stream  by  subscripts  1  and  ac  quan- 
tities pertaining  to  the  second  stream  by  subscripts  2.  The  ac  charge 
density  will  be  denoted  by  p,  the  ac  velocity  in  the  y  direction  by  y, 
and  the  ac  velocity  in  the  z  direction  by  i.  We  will  use  linearized  or 
small-signal  equations  of  motion.^  We  will  denote  differentiation  with 
respect  to  ?/  by  the  operator  D. 

The  equation  of  continuity  gives 

jupi  =   -D(piUi  +  po?yi)  +  j|8(piWo  +  pnii)  (1.1)1 

jcopo  =    -D{-p-iHi  -\-  pi)lj':d  +  il3(P2''o  +  Poi2)  (1.2) 


t; 


GROWING   WAVES    DUE   TO    TRANSVERSE    VELOCITIES  111 

Let  US  define 

dx  =  i(co  -  ^u,)  +  u,D  (1.3) 

do  =  ./(w  -  i8wo)  -  uj)  (1.4) 

We  can  then  rewrite  (1.1)  and  (1.2)  as 

f/iPi  =  Poi-Diji  +  j(3zi)  (1.5) 

dopi  =  Pi^{  —  Dy2  +  .7/3i2)  (1.0) 

We  will  assume  that  we  are  dealing  ^^•ith  slow  waves  and  can  use  a  po- 
tential V  to  describe  the  field.  We  can  thus  write  the  linearized  equations 
of  motion  in  the  form 

r/iii  =   -j-^F  (1.7) 

m 

d2h  =   -j-^V  (1.8) 

m 

drlji  =  -  DV  (1.9) 

m 

d,y,  =  1  DV  (1.10) 

w 

From  (1.5)  to  (1.10)  we  obtain 

^m  =  ~  PoiD'  -  ^')V  (1.11) 

m 

d'p2=  --poiD'-  ^')V  (1.12) 

m 

Now,  Poisson's  equation  is 

{D'  -  ^')V  =  _^L±£!  (1.13) 

From  (1.11)  to  (1.13)  we  obtain 

{D'  -  /3^)y  =  -   Kco/  (^1  +  ^^  (D'  -  /3^)7  (1.14) 


9    ^ 
—  Z—  po 

2  m 

Wp     =  

e 

Here  Wp  is  the  plasma  frequency  for  the  charge  of  both  beams. 


(1.15) 


112  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


Either 


or  else 


(2)'  -  /3')7  =  0 

—  C0„"   (c/l"    +   ^2") 


^  2         di^  d.} 

We  will  consider  this  second  case. 

W(<  should  note  from  (1.3)  and  (1.4)  that 

d{  =  u^-D^  -  (co  -  /5(/„)"  +  2yD(co  -  |8?/.o)«i 

^2^  =  ?<i-D"  -  (co  -  ^ihf  -  2jD{o^  -  l3uo)ui 

di'  +  f/o'  =  2{u{D'  -  (co  -  iSwo)'] 

rfiW  =  [uiD'  +  (co  -  /3;/„)T 

Thus,  (1.17)  becomes 


(1.16) 


(1.17) 


(1.18) 
(1.19) 
(1.20) 
(1.21) 

(1.22) 
WD""  +  (co  -  j8mo)2]^ 

If  the  quantities  involved  vary  sinusoidally  with  y  as  cos  ru  or  sin  yy, 


-co, 


\u{lf  -  (co  -  /3ao)'] 


then 


Our  equation  becomes 


D' 


-7 


(1.23) 


CO 


P       L 


1    + 


CO  —  jS'Uo 


T^Wi^ 


_  /co  -  13^0 Y" 
\      7^1      / 


(1.24) 


What  happens  if  we  have  many  transverse  velocities?  If  we  refer  back 
to  (1.14)  we  see  that  we  will  have  an  equation  of  the  form 


1  =  E  -  14 


2^pn 


2  I  din     +   C?2n 


d^d     ^      J  ^^-^''^ 

"In     (fin        / 

Here  cop„^  is  a  plasma  frequency  based  on  the  density  of  electrons  having 
transverse  velocities  ±Un  .  Equation  (1.25)  can  be  written 

(co  -  |(3//o)""| 


i  =  E 


A^ 

'M„2  r    _  (g,  -  /3uo)2-['^ 

L  7-'"n^  J 


(1.2()) 


GROWING   WAVES   DUE   TO    TRANSVERSE    VELOCITIES 


113 


(u;-/3Uo 


Fig.  1 

Suppose  we  plot  the  left-hand  and  the  right-hand  sides  of  (1.26)  versus 
(co  —  ^Uo)-  The  general  appearance  of  the  left-hand  and  right-hand  sides 
of  (1.26)  is  indicated  in  Fig.  1  for  the  case  of  two  velocities  Un  .  There 
will  always  be  two  unattenuated  waves  at  values  of  (w  —  /3wo)  >  y  Ug 
where  Ue  is  the  extreme  value  of  lu;  these  correspond  to  intersections  3 
and  3'  in  Fig.  2.  The  other  waves,  two  per  value  of  Un  ,  may  be  unat- 
tenuated or  a  pair  of  increasing  and  decreasing  waves,  depending  on  the 
values  of  the  parameters.  If 


CO 


pn 


-yhir? 


>  1 


there  will  be  at  least  one  pair  of  increasing  and  decreasing  waves. 

It  is  not  clear  what  will  happen  for  a  Maxwellian  distribution  of  veloci- 
ties. However,  we  must  remember  that  various  aberrations  might  give  a 
very  different,  strongly  peaked  velocity  distribution. 

Let  us  consider  the  amount  of  gain  in  the  case  of  one  pair  of  transverse 
velocities,  ±i/i  .  The  equation  is  now 


2      2 
7  Ui 

C0„2 


[ 


1    + 


CO  —  |3wo 


)•] 


[  ■  -  (^OI 


(1.27) 


Let 


/5  =  ^+i^ 

Wo  Wo 


(1.28) 


114  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


1  .u 
0.9 
0.8 

\ 

\ 

0.7 
0.6 

\ 

\ 

\, 

\ 

^ 

0.5 
0.4 
0.3 

\^ 

\ 

>s. 

\ 

V 

0.2 

\ 

> 

\ 

0.1 

\ 

\ 

0 

\ 

0  0.1         0.2         0.3         0.4        0.5         0.6        0.7         0.8        0.9         1.0 

v2 


m 

Fig.  2 
This  relation  defines  e.  Equation  (1.27)  becomes 


2       2 
0}J 


1  -  e^ 


(1  +  e^)^  ^'-''^ 

In  Fig.  2,  e  is  plotted  versus  the  parameter  y^Ui/oip^.  We  see  that  as  the 
parameter  falls  below  unity,  e  increases,  at  first  rapidly,  and  then  more 
slowly,  reaching  a  value  of  ±1  as  the  parameter  goes  to  zero  (as  cop' 
goes  to  infinity,  for  instance). 

It  will  be  shown  in  Section  2  of  this  paper  that  these  results  for  infinite 
flow  are  in  some  degree  an  approximation  to  the  results  for  flow  in  narrow 
beams.  It  is  therefore  of  interest  to  see  what  results  they  yield  if  applied 
to  a  beam  of  finite  width. 

If  the  beam  has  a  length  L,  the  voltage  gain  is 


The  gain  G  in  db  is 


G  =  8.7  '^  €  db 

Wo 


(1.30) 


(1.31) 


GROWING   WAVES   DUE   TO   TRANSVERSE   VELOCITIES  115 

Let  the  width  of  the  beam  be  W.  We  let 

Thus,  for  n  =   1,  there  is  a  half -cycle  variation  across  the  beam.  From 
(1.31)  and  (1.32) 

G  =  27.s(^^^\ne  db  (1.33) 


Now  L/uo  is  the  time  it  takes  the  electrons  to  go  from  one  end  of  the 
beam  to  the  other,  while  W/ui  is  the  time  it  takes  the  electrons  to  cross 
the  beam.  If  the  electrons  cross  the  beam  A''  times 

iV  =  ^4  (1-34) 

Thus, 

G  =  27.SNnedb  (1.35) 

While  for  a  given  value  of  e  the  gain  is  higher  if  we  make  the  phase 
vary  many  times  across  the  beam,  i.e.,  if  we  make  n  large,  we  should 
note  that  to  get  any  gain  at  all  we  must  have 


2    .        //iTTUlV 
0)r>     > 


(1.36) 


W 


If  we  increase  oop  ,  which  is  proportional  to  current  density,  so  that  cop 
passes  through  this  value,  the  gain  will  rise  sharply  just  after  cOp"  passes 
through  this  value  and  will  rise  less  rapidly  thereafter. 

.?.  A  Two-Dimensional  Beam  of  Finite  Width. 

Let  us  assume  a  beam  of  finite  width  in  the  ^/-direction ;  the  boundaries 
lying  a,t  y  =  ±^o  •  It  will  be  assumed  also  that  electrons  incident  upon 
these  boundaries  are  elastically  reflected,  so  that  electrons  of  the  incident 
stream  (1  or  2)  are  converted  into  those  of  the  other  stream  (2  or  1).  The 
condition  of  elastic  reflection  implies  that 

yi  =  -h  (2.1) 

Zi  =  22    Sit  y  =  ±2/0  (2.2) 

and,  in  addition,  that 

Pi  =  p2    at  y  =  ±?/o  .  (2.3) 

since  there  is  no  change  in  the  number  of  electrons  at  the  boundary. 


116  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

The  equations  of  motion  and  of  continuity  (1.7-1.12)  may  be  satisfied 
by  introducing  a  single  quantity,  ^,  such  that 

V  =  dx  dzV  (2.4) 

ii  =  -J  -  /3  d,  ^2^  (2.5) 

m 

zi  =  —j  —  di  di\p  (2.6) 

m 

yi=-d,  d^Dyp  (2.7) 

m 

112=-  di  d^Di^  (2.8) 

m 


Pi 


m 


poiD'  -  ^')  dirl^  (2.9) 


P2  =  --  Po(i)'  -  n  di'rl^  (2.10) 

m 


Then,  if  we  introduce  the  symbol,  12,  for  co  —  jSuo 

yi  +  y^  =  2j-d,d2D^yp  (2.11)  ' 

m 

h-  Z2  =  2j  -  di  diUiD^  (2.12) 

m 

PI  -  P2  =  2j-  po{D'  -  l3')uiQDi^  (2.13) 

m 

It  is  clear  that  if 

Drjy  =  D^xl^  =  0        y  =  ±yo  (2.14) 

the  conditions  for  elastic  reflection  will  be  satisfied.  The  equation  satis- 
fied by  rf/  may  now  be  found  from  Poisson's  equation,  (1-13),  and  is 

{D'  -  /3^)  dx'  di^P  =  '-^{D'-  fi'){d,'  +  di)^l. 

we 

or 

{D'  -  ^')[{u,'D'  +  ny  +  coJiu.'D'  -  n')]  =  0  (2.15) 

which  is  of  the  sixth  degree  in  D.  So  far  four  boundary  conditions  have, 
been  imposed.  The  remaining  necessary  pair  arise  from  matching  the 


GROWING   WAVES    DUE   TO   TRANSVERSE    VELOCITIES  117 

internal  fields  to  the  external  ones.  For  y  >  ijo 

V  =  Voe-'^'-e~^"  (2.16) 


and 


Similarlv 


^  +  i37  =  0         at  2/  =  2/0 
dy 


dV 

—  -  ^V  =  0        at  y  =  -7/0  (2.17) 

dy 

The  most  familiar  procedure  now  would  be  to  look  for  solutions  of 
(2,15)  of  the  form,  e''^.  This  would  give  the  sextic  for  c 

(c'  -  /3')[(WiV  +  nY  +  a;/(niV  -  n')]   =  0  (2.18) 

with  the  roots  c  =  ±|8,  ±ci  ,  ±C2  ,  let  us  s^y.  We  could  then  express  \p 
as  a  linear  combination  of  these  six  solutions  and  adjust  the  coefficients 
to  satisfy  the  six  boundary  equations.  In  this  way  a  characteristic  equa- 
tion for  l3  would  be  obtained.  From  the  S3anmetry  of  the  problem  this 
has  the  general  form  F(l3,  Ci)  =  F(i3,  C2),  where  Ci  and  Co  are  found  from 
;  (2.18).  The  discussion  of  the  problem  in  these  terms  is  rather  laborious 
and,  if  we  are  concerned  mainly  with  examining  qualitatively  the  onset 
of  increasing  waves,  another  approach  serves  better. 

From  the  symmetry  of  the  equations  and  of  the  boundary  conditions 
we  see  that  there  are  solutions  for  \p  (and  consequently  for  V  and  p) 
which  are  even  in  y  and  again  some  which  are  odd  in  y.  Consider  first  the 
even  solutions.  We  will  assume  that  there  is  an  even  function,  ^i(y), 
periodic  in  y  with  period  2yo ,  which  coincides  with  \l/(y)  in  the  open 
interval,  —yo<y<yo  and  that  \pi(:y)  has  a  Fourier  cosine  series  repre- 
sentation : 

hiy)  =  E  c„  cos  \ny        X„  =  —        n  =  0, 1,  2,  •  •  •       (2.19) 
1  yo 

yp  inside  the  interval  satisfies  (2.15),  so  we  assume  that  ypiiy)  obeys 
(D^  -  ^')[{u,'D'  +  ^'f  +  o.,\u,'D'  -  ^-)^, 


+00 


(2.20) 


=    Z)   5(2/  -  2m  +  lyo) 


where  6  is  the  familiar  5-function.  Since  D\p  and  D^\p  are  required  to  vanish 
at  the  ends  of  the  interval  and  \l/,  D'^  and  Z)V  are  even  it  follows  that  all 


118  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

of  these  functions  are  continuous.  We  assume  that  xpi  =  \l/,  D\pi  =  D\l/, 
DVi  =  D~\p,  D%  =  D^yp  and  D%  =  D*xl/  at  the  ends  of  the  intervals. 
From  (2.20),  Wi'D^i  ^  -H  as  y  ^  ijo  . 
Since 

2  8iy  -  2m  +  lyo)  =  ^  +  -  £  (-1)"  cos  Ky        (2.21) 

we  obtain  from  (2.20) 
/  1 


2?/oi/'i 


,/32ff(i22    -    Wp2) 


+  2i;(-l)"  ^"^'"^ 


Since 

^  +  ^F  =  (Z)  +  /3)(t.x^Z)^  +  fi^)V, 

using  (2.4),  the  condition  for  matching  to  the  external  field, 

dV 

^  +  /37  =  0, 

dy 

yields,  using  D\p  =  DV  =  0  and  Ui*D^\f/  =  —  i^,  the  relation 

(ui'D'  +  fi')Vi  =  3^/3     at  2/  =  2/0  . 
Applying  this  to  (2.22),  we  then  obtain,  finally, 
yo  ^  1 


+  2Z 


r  (^2   4-    X„2)[(i22    -    Ml2X„2)2    -    cOp2(Q2    +    ,,^2X„2)] 


(2.22) 


(2.23) 


For  the  odd  solution  we  use  a  function,  yp2(y),  equal  to  ;/'(?/)  in  — //o  < 
y  <  yo  and  representable  by  a  sine  series.  To  ensure  the  vanishing  of  D^p 
and  7)V  at  ?/  =  ±?/o  it  is  appropriate  to  use  the  functions,  sin  n„y,  where 
Mn  =  (n  -\-  l'2)ir/yo  .  The  period  is  now  iyo  and  we  define  \p2(y)  in  /yo  < 
y  <  32/0  by  the  relation  i;'2(2/)  =  ^{2yo  —  y)  and  in  —  32/o  <  2/  <  —  2/o  by 
^2(2/)  =  ^{  —  '^Uo  —  y)-  Thus,  we  write 

00 

1^2(2/)    =    2  C?n  sin  UnV  Hn    =    (w  +   3^)^7/0 

0 

^2(2/)  ^^i"  ho  supposed  to  satisfy 


GROWING   "WAVES   DUE   TO   TRANSVERSE   VELOCITIES  119 

+M  (2.24) 

=    2   [^(y  -  4m  +  lyo)  -  Ky  -  4m  -  lyo)] 

m=— 00 

The  extended  definition  of  i/'2  (outside  — /yo  <y  <  ijo)  is  such  that  we  may 

again  take  \pi  =  \p, ,  D%  =  DV  at  the  ends  of  the  interval.  ?/i*DVi  is 

still  equal  to  —  }4  at  ij  =  ijo .  Now 

+  00  

£  [5(y  -  4m  +  iW  -  ^(y  —  4m  -  l^/o)] 

(2.25) 

=  —  2  (—1)"  sin  /i„?/ 
2/0 

so  from  (2.24)  we  may  find 

v^L    =  -T (-l)"sin/xnj/ ,        ^ 

Matching  to  the  external  field  as  before  gives 
and  applied  to  (2.26)  we  have 

00  /rfi  2      2\2 

_y^  =  y (^  -  uinn) ,     . 

The  equations  (2.23)  and  (2.27)  for  the  even  and  odd  modes  may  be 
rewritten  using  the  following  reduced  variables. 

.  =  ^« 

IT 
1     _   Wj/0   _   Wo 

(2.23)  becomes 

^'       4-  2  y  ^ (n'  -  k^  _   _  . 

and  (2.27)  transforms  to 


„^  2^  +  (n  +  3^)2  [{n  +  1^)2  -  /c2]2  -  s\{n  +  3^)^  +  k']         (2  99) 

=    — tt;? 


120 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


We  shall  assume  in  considering  (2.28)  and  (2.29)  that  the  beam  is 
sufficiently  wide  for  the  transit  of  an  electron  from  one  side  to  the  other 
to  take  a  few  RF  cycles.  The  number  of  cycles  is  in  fact,  coz/o/ttwi  ,  and, 
hence,  from  the  definition  of  z,  we  see  that  for  values  of  A:  less  than  2, 
perhaps,  z  is  certainly  positive. 

Let  us  consider  (2.29)  first  since  it  proves  to  be  the  simpler  case.  If  we 
transfer  the  term  ttz  to  the  right  hand  side,  it  follo^^•s  from  the  observa- 
tion that  z  is  positive  (for  modest  values  of  h),  that  it  is  necessary  to 
make  the  sum  negative.  The  sum  may  be  studied  qualitatively  by  sketch- 
ing in  the  k^  —  d'  plane  the  lines  on  which  the  individual  terms  go  to 
infinity,  given  by 

[(n  +  3^)^  -  k'f 


8'  = 


(n  -f  K)'  +  k' 


(2.30) 


3.5 


Fig.  3 


GROWING   WAVES    DUE   TO   TRANSVERSE   VELOCITIES 


121 


77 


0.4 

0.3 


0.2         0.4         0.6  0.8  1.0 


1.2  1.4 

(X/TT 


1.6 


1.8         2.0         2.2        2.4 


Fig.  4 

Fig.  3  shows  a  few  such  curves  (n  =  0,  1,  2).  To  the  right  of  such  curves 
the  individual  term  in  question  is  negative,  except  on  the  Hne,  k^  = 
{n  +  V^)  ,  where  it  attains  the  value  of  zero.  Approaching  the  curves 
from  the  right  the  terms  go  to  —  oo .  On  the  left  of  the  curves  the  func- 
tion is  positive  and  goes  to  +  oo  as  the  curve  is  approached  from  the 


10 


... 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

J, 

L 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

L 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

Y 

/ 

/=, 

/ 

A 

V 

/ 

/ 

/ 

' 

\ 

/ 

A 

-0 

1 

/ 

\ 

/ 

y 

/ 

\ 

^^ 

A 

>< 

■^ 

^^ 

>C 

^ 

"\ 

^ 

'^ 

^ 

3  4  5  6  7  8  9 

Fig.  5 


J  22  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JANUARY    195G 

left.  Clearly  in  the  regions  marked  +  which  lie  to  the  left  of  every  curve 
given  by  (2.30),  the  sum  is  positive  and  we  cannot  have  roots.  Let  us 
examine  the  sum  in  the  region  to  the  right  of  the  n  =  0  curve  and  to  the 
left  of  all  others.  On  the  line,  A;^  =  J4»  the  sum  is  positive,  since  the  first 
term  is  zero.  On  any  other  line,  k'  =  constant,  the  sum  goes  from  +  °° 
at  the  n  =  1  curve  monotonically  to  —  oo  at  the  n  =  0  curve,  so  that 
somewhere  it  must  pass  through  0.  This  enables  us  to  draw  the  zero- 
sum  contours  qualitatively  in  this  region  and  they  are  indicated  in  Fig.  3. 
We  are  now  in  a  position  to  follow  the  variation  in  the  sum  as  k  varies 
at  fixed  5  .  It  is  readily  seen  that  for  5  <  0.25,  because  —wz  is  negative 
in  the  region  under  consideration,  there  will  be  four  real  roots,  tw^o  for 
positive,  two  for  negative  k.  For  5'  slightly  greater  than  0.25,  the  sum  has 


Fig.  6A 


GROWING   WAVES   DUE   TO   TRANSVERSE   VELOCITIES  123 

a  deep  minimum  for  k  =  0,  so  that  there  are  still  four  real  roots  unless  z 
is  very  large.  For  z  fixed,  as  5^  increases,  the  depth  of  the  minimum  de- 
creases and  there  will  finally  occur  a  5"  for  which  the  minimum  is  so  shal- 
low that  two  of  the  real  roots  disappear.  Call  z(0)  the  value  of  ziork  =  0, 
write  the  sum  as  2(5^  k^)  and  suppose  that  2(5o^  0)  =  —irziO),  then  for 
small  k  we  have 

S(5^  e)  =  -«(0)  +  (6^  -  8o')  §,  +  k'§,=  -«(0)  -"^  k 

do^  dk^  Ua 

as 

dB  dk^ 


^  =  ^±        /     ".^(^-^0^)  + 


'^     a/ 
dk'     y 

The  roots  become  complex  when 


aA-2 


S.2  J  2  (Ul/Uo) 

0    =  do    — 


52  as 

d8^  dB 


Since  Ui/uq  may  be  considered  small  (say  10  per  cent)  it  is  sufficient  to 


look  for  the  values  of  5o^. 
When  k   =  0  we  have 


-TZ  =  2X) 

2z 


z  (n  +  y,y 


z^  +  52 

irz" 


z'-\-in-\-  y^r  (n  -1-  y^y-  -  s' 

'  H ^ + i ^ 

0    \in  +  3^)2  -  52  ^  (n  +  1^)2  +  zy 
(5  tan  -Kb  -\-  z  tanh  irz) 


z"  +  52 


Fig.  4  shows  the  solution  of  this  equation  for  various  2(0)  or  oiyo/iruo . 
Clearly  the  threshold  5  is  rather  insensitive  to  variations  in  uyo/ir^io . 

Equation  (2.28)  may  be  examined  by  a  similar  method,  but  here  some 
complications  arise.  Fig.  5  shows  the  infinity  curves  for  n  =  0,  1,  2,  3; 
the  n  =  0  term  being  of  the  form  k^/k^  —  8^.  The  lowest  critical  region 
in  5^  is  the  neighborhood  of  the  point  fc^  =  6^  =  ]^i,  which  is  the  intersec- 
tion of  the  n  =  0  and  n  =  1  lines.  To  obtain  an  idea  of  the  behavior  of 


124  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    195G 

the  left  hand  side  (l.h.s.)  of  (2.28)  in  this  area  we  first  see  how  the  point 
k^  =  f  =  1^  can  be  approached  so  that  the  l.h.s.  remains  finite.  If  we 
put  k^  =  H  +  £  and  a'  =  ^  +  ce  and  expand  the  first  two  dominant 
terms  of  (2.28),  then  adjust  c  to  keep  the  result  finite  as  f  -^  0  we  find 

=  1  3^'  -  5 
^  ~  4  32^  +  1 

c  varies  from  —  %  to  \i  as  z  goes  from  0  to  c»  ,  changing  sign  at  2^  =  %. 
Every  curve  for  which  the  l.h.s.  is  constant  makes  quadratic  contact  with 
the  Jine  5"  —  V3  =  c(/v"  —  ]i)  at  Jc'  =  5'  =  I/3.  If  we  remember  that 
the  l.h.s.  is  positive  for  A;'  =  0,  0  <  5"  <  1  and  for  A;^  =  1,  0  <  5^  <  1, 


1 

2 

lik 

3 

w-oX 

k^ 

/ 

1 

y(  I 

3 

SHADED    AREAS            // 
NEGATIVE              yV 

X  /' 
/  // 

/  /I 
/  /  / 

X 

\ 

n  =  i^v 

0 

3 


3 


Fig.  6B 


GROWING   WAVES   DUE   TO   TRANSVERSE   VELOCITIES  125 

since  there  are  no  negative  terms  in  the  sum  for  these  ranges  and  again 
that  the  l.h.s.  must  change  sign  between  the  n  =  0  and  n  —  I  Unes  for 
any  k^  in  the  range  0  <  k^  <  1  (since  it  varies  from  T  oo  to  ±0°),  this 
information  may  be  combined  with  that  about  the  immediate  vicinity 
of  5  =  k  =  V^  to  enable  us  to  draw  a  Hue  on  which  the  l.h.s.  is  zero. 
This  is  indicated  in  Figs.  6A  and  6B  for  small  z  and  large  z  respec- 
tively. It  will  be  seen  that  the  zero  curve  and,  in  fact,  all  curves  on  which 
the  l.h.s.  is  equal  to  a  negative  constant  are  required  to  have  a  vertical 
tangent  at  some  point.  This  point  may  be  above  or  below  /c^  =  ^  (de- 
pending upon  the  sign  of  c  or  the  size  of  z)  but  always  at  a  3^  >  ^.  For 
5  <  H  there  are  no  regions  where  roots  can  arise  as  we  can  readily  see 
by  considering  how  the  l.h.s.  varies  with  k"^  at  fixed  5^  For  a  fixed  d^  >  }/s 
we  have,  then,  either  for  k^  >  ]4  or  k^  <  V^,  according  to  the  size  of  z, 
a  negative  minimum  which  becomes  indefinitely  deep  as  5^  -^  ^.  Thus, 
since  the  negative  terms  on  the  right-hand  side  are  not  sensitive  to  small 
changes  in  5^,  we  must  expect  to  find,  for  a  fixed  value  of  the  l.h.s.,  two 
real  solutions  of  (2.28)  for  some  values  of  5^  and  no  real  solutions  for  some 
larger  value  of  5  ,  since  the  negative  minimum  of  the  l.h.s.  may  be  made 
as  shallow  as  we  like  by  increasing  6".  By  continuity  then  we  expect  to 
find  pairs  of  complex  roots  in  this  region.  Rather  oddly  these  roots,  which 
will  exist  certainly  for  5'  sufficiently  close  to  V^  +  0,  will  disappear  if 
5^  is  sufficiently  increased. 

REFERENCES 

1.  L.  S.  Nergaard,  Analysis  of  a  Simple  Model  of  a  Two-Beam  Growing-Wave 

Tube,  RCA  Review,  9,  pp.  585-601,  Dec,  1948. 

2.  J.  R.  Pierce  and  W.  B.  Hebenstreit,  A  New  Type  of  High-Frequency  Amplifier, 

B.  S.  T.  J.,  28,  pp.  23-51,  Jan.,  1949. 

3.  A.  V.  Haeff,  The  Electron-Wave  Tube  —  A  Novel  Method  of  Generation  and 

Amplification  of  Microwave  Energy,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  37,  pp.  4-10,  Jan.,  1949. 

4.  G.  G.  Macfarlg,ne  and  H.  G.  Hay,  Wave  Propagation  in  a  Slipping  Stream  of 

Electrons,  Proc.  Physical  Society  Sec.  B,  63,  pp.  409-427,  June,  1950. 

5.  P.  Gurnard  and  H.  Huber,  Etude  E.xp^rimentale  de  L'Interaction  par  Ondes 

de  Chargd^d'Espace  au  Sein  d'Un  Faisceau  Electronique  se  Deplagant  dans 
Des  Champs  Electrique  et  Magn^tique  Croisfe,  Annales  de  Radio^lectricite, 
7,  pp.  252-278,  Oct.,  1952. 

6.  C.  K.  Birdsall,  Double  Stream  Amplification  Due  to  Interaction  Between  Two 

Oblique  Electron  Streams,  Technical  Report  No.  24,  Electronics  Research 
Laboratory,  Stanford  University. 

7.  L.  Brillouin,  A  Theorem  of  Larmor  and  Its  Importance  for  Electrons  in  Mag- 

netic Fields,  Phys.  Rev.,  67,  pp.  260-266,  1945. 

8.  J.  R.  Pierce,  Theory  and  Design  of  Electron  Beams,  2nd  Ed.,  Chapter  9,  Van 

Nostrand,  1954. 

9.  J.  R.  Pierce,  Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  Van  Nostrand,  1950. 


Coupled  Helices 

By  J.  S.  COOK,  R.  KOMPFNER  and  C.  F.  QUATE 

(Received  September  21,  1955) 

An  analysis  of  coupled  helices  is  presented,  using  the  transmission  line 
approach  and  also  the  field  approach,  with  the  objective  of  providing  the 
tube  designer  and  the  microwave  circuit  engineer  with  a  basis  for  approxi- 
mate calcidations.  Devices  based  on  the  presence  of  only  one  mode  of  propa- 
gation are  briefly  described;  and  methods  for  establishing  such  a  mode  are 
given.  Devices  depending  on  the  simultaneous  presence  of  both  modes,  that 
is,  depending  on  the  beat  wave  phenomenon,  are  described;  some  experi- 
mental results  are  cited  in  support  of  the  view  that  a  novel  and  useful  class  of 
coupling  elements  has  been  discovered. 

CONTENTS 

1.  Introduction 129 

2.  Theory  of  Coupled  Helices 132 

2.1  Introduction 132 

2.2  Transmission  Line  Equations 133 

2.3  Solution  for  Synchronous  Helices 135 

2.4  Non-Synchronous  Helix  Solutions 137 

2.5  A  Look  at  the  Fields 139 

2.6  A  Simple  Estimate  of  b  and  x 141 

2.7  Strength  of  Coupling  versus  Frequency 142 

2.8  Field  Solutions 144 

.  2.9  Bifilar  Helix 146 

2.10  Effect  of  Dielectric  Material  between  Helices 148 

2.11  The  Conditions  for  Maximum  Power  Transfer 151 

2.12  Mode  Impedance 152 

3.  Applications  of  Coupled  Helices 154 

3.1  Excitation  of  Pure  Modes 156 

3.1.1  Direct  Excitation 156 

3.1.2  Tapered  Coupler 157 

3.1.3  Stepped  Coupler 158 

3.2  Low  Noise  Transverse  Field  Amplifier 159 

3.3  Dispersive  Traveling  Wave  Tube 159 

3.4  Devices  Using  Both  Modes 161 

3.4.1  Coupled  Helix  Transducer 161 

3.4.2  Coupled-Helix  Attenuator 165 

4.  Conclusion 167 

Appendix 

I    Solution  of  Field  Equations 168 

II    Finding  r I73 

III    Complete  Power  Transfer 175 

127 


128  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

GLOSSARY   OF   SYMBOLS 

a  Mean  radius  of  inner  helix 

h  Mean  radius  of  outer  helix 

h  Capacitive  coupling  coefficient 

Bio,  20     shunt  susceptance  of  inner  and  outer  helices,  respectively 

Bi,  2       Shunt  susceptance  plus  mutual  susceptance  of  inner  and  outer 

helices,  respectively,  Bm  +  Bm  ,  Boo  +  B^ 
Bm         Mutual  susceptance  of  two  coupled  helices 
c  Velocity  of  light  in  free  space 

d  Radial  separation  between  helices,  h-a 

D  Directivity  of  helix  coupler 

E  Electric  field  intensity 

F  Maximum  fraction  of  power  transferable  from  one  coupled  helix 

to  the  other 
F(ya)     Impedance  parameter 

7i,  2        RF  current  in  inner  and  outer  helix,  respectively 
K  Impedance  in  terms  of  longitudinal  electric  field  on  helix  axis 

and  axial  power  flow 
L  ]\Iinimum  axial  distance  required  for  maximum  energy  transfer 

from  one  coupled  helix  to  the  other,  X6/2 

Axial  power  flow  along  helix  circuit 

Radial  coordinate 

Radius  where  longitudinal  component  of  electric  field  is  zero  for 

transverse  mode  (about  midway  between  a  and  b) 

Return  loss 

Radial  separation  betw^een  helix  and  adjacent  conducting  shield 

Time 

RF  potential  of  inner  and  outer  helices,  respectively  • 

Inductive  coupling  coefficient 

Series  reactance  of  inner  and  outer  helices,  respectively 

Series  reactance  plus  mutual  reactance  of  inner  and  outer  helices, 

respectively,  Xio  +  Xm  ,  X20  +  Xm 

Mutual  reactance  of  two  coupled  helices 

Axial  coordinate 

Impedance  of  inner  and  outer  helix,  respectively 

Attenuation  constant  of  inner  and  outer  helices,  respectively 

General  circuit  phase  constant;  or  mean  circuit  phase  constant. 

Free  space  phase  constant 

Axial  phase  constant  of  inner  and  outer  helices  in  absence  of 

coupling,  V^ioXio ,  VBioXio 


p 

r 
f 

R 

s 
t 

F1.2 

X 

Xva,  20 
Xl,  2 

Xm 

Z 
Zil,  2 

Oil,  2 

^0 
^10.  20 

COUPLED   HELICES  129 

181 , 2  May  be  considered  as  axial  phase  constant  of  inner  and  outer 
helices,  respectively 

(Sft  Beat  phase  constant 

jSc  Coupling  phase  constant,  (identical  with  ^b  when  /3i  =  JS2) 

I3ce  Coupling  phase  constant  when  there  is  dielectric  material  be- 

tween the  helices 

/3d  Difference  phase  constant,  [  /3i  —  /32  [ 

(8f  Axial  phase  constant  of  single  helix  in  presence  of  dielectric 

^t,  (  Axial  phase  constant  of  transverse  and  longitudinal  modes,  re- 
spectively 

7  Radial  phase  constant 

jt,  (  Radial  phase  constant  of  transverse  and  longitudinal  modes, 
respectively 

r  Axial  propagation  constant 

Tt.  (  Axial  propagation  constant  for  transverse  and  longitudinal 
coupled-helix  modes,  respectively 

e  Dielectric  constant 

e'  Relative  dielectric  constant,  e/eq 

En  Dielectric  constant  of  free  space 

X  General  circuit  wavelength;  or  mean  circuit  wavelength,  \/XiX2 

Xo  Free  space  wavelength 

Xi,  2        Axial  wavelength  on  inner  and  outer  helix,  respectively 

X6  Beat  wavelength 

Xc  Coupling  wavelength  (identical  with  Xb  when  (5i  =  /So) 

yj/  Helix  pitch  angle 

i/'i,  2        Pitch  angle  of  inner  and  outer  helix,  respectively 

CO  Angular  frequency 

1.    INTRODUCTION 

Since  their  first  appearance,  traveling-wave  tubes  have  changed  only 
very  little.  In  particular,  if  we  divide  the  tube,  somewhat  arbitrarily, 
into  circuit  and  beam,  the  most  widely  used  circuit  is  still  the  helix,  and 
the  most  widely  used  transition  from  the  circuits  outside  the  tube  to  the 
circuit  inside  is  from  waveguide  to  a  short  stub  or  antenna  which,  in 
turn,  is  attached  to  the  helix,  either  directly  or  through  a  few  turns  of 
increased  pitch.  Feedback  of  signal  energy  along  the  helix  is  prevented 
by  means  of  loss,  either  distributed  along  the  whole  helix  or  localized 
somewhere  near  the  middle.  The  helix  is  most  often  supported  along  its 
whole  length  by  glass  or  ceramic  rods,  which  also  serve  to  carry  a  con- 
ducting coating  ("aquadag"),  acting  as  the  localized  loss. 

We  therefore  find  the  following  circuit  elements  within  the  tube  en- 
velope, fixed  and  inaccessible  once  and  for  all  after  it  has  been  sealed  off: 


130  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

1 .  The  helix  itself,  determining  the  beam  voltage  for  optimum  beam- 
circuit  interaction ; 

2.  The  helix  ends  and  matching  stubs,  etc.,  all  of  which  have  to  be 
positioned  very  precisely  with  relation  to  the  waveguide  circuits  in 
order  to  obtain  a  reproducible  match ; 

3.  The  loss,  in  the  form  of  "aquadag"  on  the  support  rods,  which 
greatly  influences  the  tube  performance  by  its  position  and  distril)ution. 

In  spite  of  the  enormous  bandwidth  over  which  the  traveling-wave 
tube  is  potentially  capable  of  operating  —  a  feature  new  in  the  field  of 
microwave  amplifier  tubes  —  it  turns  out  that  the  positioning  of  the  tube 
in  the  external  circuits  and  the  necessary  matching  adjustments  are 
rather  critical;  moreover  the  overall  bandwidths  achieved  are  far  short 
of  the  obtainable  maximum. 

Another  fact,  experimentally  observed  and  well-founded  in  theory, 
rounds  off  the  situation:  The  electro-magnetic  field  surrounding  a  helix, 
i.e.,  the  slow  wave,  under  normal  conditions,  does  not  radiate,  and  is 
confined  to  the  close  vicinity  of  the  helix,  falling  off  in  intensity  nearly 
exponentially  with  distance  from  the  helix.  A  typical  traveling-wave 
tube,  in  which  the  helix  is  supported  by  ceramic  rods,  and  the  whole 
enclosed  by  the  glass  envelope,  is  thus  practically  inaccessible  as  far  as 
RF  fields  are  concerned,  with  the  exception  of  the  ends  of  the  helix, 
where  provision  is  made  for  matching  to  the  outside  circuits.  Placing 
objects  such  as  conductors,  dielectrics  or  distributed  loss  close  to  the 
tube  is,  in  general,  observed  to  have  no  effect  whatsoever. 

In  the  course  of  an  experimental  investigation  into  the  propagation  of 
space  charge  waves  in  electron  beams  it  was  desired  to  couple  into  a  long 
helix  at  any  point  chosen  along  its  length.  Because  of  the  feebleness  of 
the  RF  fields  outside  the  helix  surrounded  by  the  conventional  sup- 
ports and  the  envelope,  this  seemed  a  rather  difficult  task.  Nevertheless, 
if  accomplished,  such  a  coupling  would  have  other  and  even  more  im- 
portant applications;  and  a  good  deal  of  thought  was  given  to  the 
problem. 

Coupled  concentric  helices  were  found  to  provide  the  solution  to  the 
problem  of  coupling  into  and  out  of  a  helix  at  any  particular  point,  and  to 
a  number  of  other  problems  too. 

Concentric  coupled  helices  have  been  considered  by  J.  R.  Pierce, 
who  has  ti'cated  the  problem  mainly  with  transverse  fields  in  mind. 
Such  fields  were  thought  to  be  useful  in  low-noise  traveling-wave  tube 
devices.  Pierce's  analysis  treats  the  helices  as  transmission  lines  coupled 
uniformly  over  their  length  by  means  of  nuitual  distributed  capacitance 
and  inductance.  Pierce  also  recognized  that  it  is  necessary  to  wind  the 


COUPLED   HELICES  l,']! 

two  helices  in  opposite  directions  in  order  to  obtain  well  defined  trans- 
verse and  axial  wave  modes  which  are  well  separated  in  respect  to  their 
velocities  of  propagation. 

Pierce  did  not  then  give  an  estimate  of  the  velocity  separation  which 
might  be  attainable  with  practical  helices,  nor  did  anybody  (as  far  as  we 
are  aware)  then  know  how  strong  a  coupling  one  might  obtain  with  such 
heUces. 

It  was,  therefore,  a  considerable  (and  gratifying)  surprise^'  ^  to  find 
that  concentric  helices  of  practically  realizable  dimensions  and  separa- 
tions are,  indeed,  very  strongly  coupled  when,  and  these  are  the  im- 
portant points, 

(a)  They  have  very  nearly  equal  velocities  of  propagation  when  un- 
coupled, and  when 

(b)  They  are  wound  in  opposite  senses. 

It  was  found  that  virtually  complete  power  transfer  from  outer  to 
inner  helix  (or  vice  versa)  could  be  effected  over  a  distance  of  the  order 
of  one  helix  wavelength  (normally  between  i^fo  and  3^^o  of  a  free-space 
wavelength. 

It  was  also  found  that  it  was  possible  to  make  a  transition  from  a  co- 
axial transmission  line  to  a  short  (outer)  helix  and  thence  through  the 
glass  surrounding  an  inner  helix,  which  was  fairly  good  over  quite  a  con- 
siderable bandwidth.  Such  a  transition  also  acted  as  a  directional  coupler, 
RF  power  coming  from  the  coaxial  line  being  transferred  to  the  inner 
helix  predominantly  in  one  direction. 

Thus,  one  of  the  shortcomings  of  the  "conventional"  helix  traveling- 
wave  tube,  namely  the  necessary  built-in  accuracy  of  the  matching 
parameters,  was  overcome  by  means  of  the  new  type  of  coupler  that 
might  evolve  around  coupled  helix-to-helix  systems. 

Other  constructional  and  functional  possibilities  appeared  as  the 
work  progressed,  such  as  coupled-helix  attenuators,  various  tj^pes  of 
broadband  couplers,  and  schemes  for  exciting  pure  transverse  (slow)  or 
longitudinal  (fast)  waves  on  coupled  helices. 

One  central  fact  emerged  from  all  these  considerations:  by  placing 
part  of  the  circuit  outside  the  tube  envelope  with  complete  independence 
from  the  helix  terminations  inside  the  tube,  coupled  helices  give  back  to 
the  circuit  designer  a  freedom  comparable  only  with  that  obtained  at 
much  lower  frequencies.  For  example,  it  now  appears  entirely  possible 
to  make  one  type  of  traveling  wave  tube  to  cover  a  variety  of  frequency 
bands,  each  band  requiring  merely  different  couplers  or  outside  helices, 
the  tube  itself  remaining  unchanged. 

Moreover,  one  tube  may  now  be  made  to  fulfill  a  number  of  different 


132  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAI-   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

functions;  this  is  made  possible  by  the  freedom  with  which  couplers 
and  attenuators  can  be  placed  at  any  chosen  point  along  the  tube. 

Considerable  work  in  this  field  has  been  done  elsewhere.  Reference 
will  be  made  to  it  wherever  possible.  However,  only  that  work  with 
which  the  authors  have  been  intimately  connected  will  be  fully  reported 
here.  In  particular,  the  effect  of  the  electron  beam  on  the  wave  propaga- 
tion phenomena  will  not  be  considered. 

2.    THEORY   OF   COUPLED   HELICES 

2.1  Introduction 

In  the  past,  considerable  success  has  been  attained  in  the  under- 
standing of  traveling  wave  tube  behavior  by  means  of  the  so-called 
"transmission-line"  approach  to  the  theory.  In  particular,  J.  R,  Pierce 
used  it  in  his  initial  analysis  and  was  thus  able  to  present  the  solution 
of  the  so-called  traveling-wave  tube  equations  in  the  form  of  4  waves, 
one  of  which  is  an  exponentially  growing  forward  traveling  wave  basic 
to  the  operation  of  the  tube  as  an  amplifier. 

This  transmission-line  approach  considers  the  helix  —  or  any  slow- 
wave  circuit  for  that  matter  —  as  a  transmission  line  with  distributed 
capacitance  and  inductance  with  which  an  electron  beam  interacts. 
As  the  first  approximation,  the  beam  is  assumed  to  be  moving  in  an  RF 
field  of  uniform  intensity  across  the  beam. 

In  this  way  very  simple  expressions  for  the  coupling  parameter  and 
gain,  etc.,  are  obtained,  which  give  one  a  good  appreciation  of  the 
physically  relevant  quantities. 

A  number  of  factors,  such  as  the  effect  of  space  charge,  the  non-uniform 
distribution  of  the  electric  field,  the  variation  of  circuit  impedance  with 
frequency,  etc.,  can,  in  principle,  be  calculated  and  their  effects  can  be 
superimposed,  so  to  speak,  on  the  relatively  simple  expressions  deriving 
from  the  simple  transmission  line  theory.  This  has,  in  fact,  been  done  and 
is,  from  the  design  engineer's  point  of  view,  quite  satisfactory. 

However,  phj^sicists  are  bound  to  be  unhappy  over  this  state  of 
affairs.  In  the  beginning  was  Maxwell,  and  therefore  the  proper  point  to 
start  from  is  Maxwell. 

So-called  "Field"  theories  of  traveling-w^ave  tubes,  based  on  Maxwell's 
equation,  solved  with  the  appropriate  boundary  conditions,  have  been 
worked  out  and  their  main  importance  is  that  they  largely  confirm  the 
results  obtained  by  the  inexact  transmission  line  theory.  It  is,  however, 
in  the  nature  of  things  that  field  theories  cannot  give  answers  in  terms  of 


COUPLED    HELICES  133 

simple  closed  expressions  of  any  generality.  The  best  that  can  be  done 
is  in  the  form  of  curves,  with  step-wise  increases  of  particular  param- 
eters. These  can  be  of  considerable  value  in  particular  cases,  and  when 
exactness  is  essential. 

In  this  paper  we  shall  proceed  by  giving  the  "transmission-line"  type 
theory  first,  together  with  the  elaborations  that  are  necessary  to  arrive 
at  an  estimate  of  the  strength  of  coupling  possible  with  coaxial  helices. 
The  "field"  type  theory  will  be  used  whenever  the  other  theory  fails,  or 
is  inadequate.  Considerable  physical  insight  can  be  gotten  with  the  use 
of  the  transmission-line  theory;  nevertheless  recourse  to  field  theory  is 
necessary  in  a  number  of  cases,  as  will  be  seen. 

It  will  be  noted  that  in  all  the  calculations  to  be  presented  the  presence 
of  an  electron  beam  is  left  out  of  account.  This  is  done  for  two  reasons: 
Its  inclusion  would  enormously  complicate  the  theory,  and,  as  will 
eventually  be  shown,  it  would  modify  our  conclusions  only  very  slightly. 
Moreover,  in  practically  all  cases  which  we  shall  consider,  the  helices  are 
so  tightly  coupled  that  the  velocities  of  the  two  normal  modes  of  propaga- 
tion are  very  different,  as  will  be  shown.  Thus,  only  when  the  beam 
velocity  is  very  near  to  either  one  or  the  other  wave  velocity,  will 
growing-wave  interaction  take  place  between  the  beam  and  the  helices. 
In  this  case  conventional  traveling  wave  tube  theory  may  be  used. 

A  theory  of  coupled  helices  in  the  presence  of  an  electron  beam  has 
been  presented  by  Wade  and  Rynn,^  who  treated  the  case  of  weakly 
coupled  helices  and  arrived  at  conclusions  not  at  variance  with  our  views. 

2.2  Transmission  Line  Equations 

Following  Pierce  we  describe  two  lossless  helices  by  their  distributed 
series  reactances  Xio  and  A'20  and  their  distributed  shunt  susceptances 
Bio  and  ^20  .  Thus  their  phase  constants  are 

/3io  =  V^ioA'io 

Let  these  helices  be  coupled  by  means  of  a  mutual  distributed  reac- 
tance Xm  and  a  mutual  susceptance  B^  ,  both  of  which  are,  in  a  way 
which  will  be  described  later,  functions  of  the  geometry. 

Let  waves  in  the  coupled  system  be  described  by  the  factor 

jut    —  Tj; 

e    e 


\v 


here  the  F's  are  the  propagation  constants  to  be  found. 


134  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


The  transmission  line  equations  may  be  written: 

r/i  -  jB,V,  +  jB„y2  =  0 
rFi  -  iXi/i  +  jXJo  =  0 

r/o  -  JB0V2  +  jB„yi  =  0 

TV2    -  jXJa  +  jXJ,    -    0 

where 

B,  -  5io  +  5« 

Bo    =    B20   +    Bm 

X2    =    X20   -f"    Xm 

1 1  and  1 2  are  eliminated  from  the  (2.2.1)  and  we  find 

F2  ^  +  (r-  +  XiBi  +  x^Bj 

Fi 

F2 


(2.2.1) 


X\Bm   +  B%Xm 

+  (r-  +  X2S2  +  x^Bj 


XlBm    +    5lX„ 


(2.2.2) 


(2.2.3) 


These  two  equations  are  then  multipUed  together  and  an  expression  for 
r  of  the  4th  degree  is  obtained : 

r'  +  (XiBi  +  X2B2  +  2Z,„Bjr' 

+  (X1Z2  -  Xj){B,B2  -  Bj)  =  0 
We  now  define  a  number  of  dimensionless  quantities: 


(2.2.4) 


B, 


BiB. 


Xm 


=  h'  =  (eapacitive  coupling  coefficient)' 


=  X    =  (inductive  coupling  coefficient) 


XiXo 

B\Xi  =  ^1,        B2X2  =  (82' 
X1B1X2B2  =  13^  =  (mean  phase  constant) 
With  these  substitutions  we  obtain  the  general  equation  for  T~ 


T'  =  13' 


2  \(3-r  ^  I3{'  ^ 


y  4v^2'^^/3i^ 


_     (2.2.5) 


+  26.r      -  (1  -  .r-)(l  -  U') 


COUPLED    HELICES  135 


(2.2.6) 


If  we  make  the  same  substitutions  in  (2.2.2)  we  find 

Fi        T   ZiL    /3(/3i?>  + /3o:r)    . 
where  the  Z's  are  the  impedances  of  the  heUces,  i.e., 

Z,.  =  VXJB, 

2.3  Solution  for  Synchronous  Helices 

Let  us  consider  the  particular  case  where  (Si  =  (S-z  =  |S.  From  (2.2.5) 
we  obtain 

r'  =  -I3\l  +  xb  db  (x  +  b)]  (2.3.1) 

Each  of  the  above  values  of  T"  characterizes  a  normal  mode  of  propaga- 
tion involving  both  helices.  The  two  square  roots  of  each  T"  represent 
waves  going  in  the  positive  and  negative  directions.  We  shall  consider 
only  the  positive  roots  of  T  ,  denoted  Tt  and  Tt ,  which  represent  the 
forward  traveling  waves. 

Ttj  =  i/3Vl  +  xb  ±  {x  +  b)  (2.3.2) 

If  a:  >  0  and  6  >  0 

I  r, I  >  |/3i,  I  r,|  <  1^1 

Thus  Vt  represents  a  normal  mode  of  propagation  which  is  slower  than 
the  propagation  velocity  of  either  helix  alone  and  can  be  called  the 
"slow"  wave.  Similarly  T(  represents  a  "fast"  wave.  We  shall  find  that, 
in  fact,  X  and  b  are  numerically  equal  in  most  cases  of  interest  to  us;  we 
therefore  write  the  expressions  for  the  propagation  constants 

r.  =  M^  +  H(-^  +  b)] 

(2.3.3) 

r.  =  Ml  -  Viix  +  b)] 

If  we  substitute  (2.3.3)  into  (2.2.6)  for  the  case  where  /3i  =  (82  =  /3  and 
assume,  for  simplicity,  that  the  helix  self-impedances  are  equal,  we  find 
that  for  r  =  Tt 

Y%  _ 


for  r  =  T; 


F2 

-—  =  -f  1 

Yx       ^ 


136  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

Thus,  the  slow  wave  is  characterized  by  equal  voltages  of  unlike  sign  on 
the  two  helices,  and  the  fast  wave  by  equal  voltages  of  like  sign.  It  fol- 
lows that  the  electric  field  in  the  annular  region  between  two  such  coupled 
concentric  helices  will  be  transverse  for  the  slow  wave  and  longitudinal 
for  the  fast.  For  this  reason  the  slow  and  fast  modes  are  often  referred 
to  as  the  transverse  and  longitudinal  modes,  respectively,  as  indi- 
cated by  our  subscripts. 

It  should  be  noted  here  that  we  arbitrarily  chose  h  and  x  positive.  A 
different  choice  of  signs  cannot  alter  the  fact  that  the  transverse  mode  is 
the  slower  and  the  longitudinal  mode  is  the  faster  of  the  two. 

Apart  from  the  interest  in  the  separate  existence  of  the  fast  and  slow 
waves  as  such,  another  object  of  interest  is  the  phenomenon  of  the  simul- 
taneous existence  of  both  waves  and  the  interference,  or  spatial  beating, 
between  them. 

Let  V2  denote  the  voltage  on  the  outer  hehx;  and  let  Vi ,  the  voltage 
on  the  inner  halix,  be  zero  at  z  =  0.  Then  we  have,  omitting  the  common 
factor  e'"  , 

(2.3.4) 

Since  at  2  =  0,  Fi  =  0,  Vn  =  —  V(^  .  For  the  case  we  have  considered  we 
have  found  Fa  =  —  V^  and  Vn  =  V^  .  We  can  write  (2.3.4)  as 


Fi  =  I  {e~'^'  -  e-^n 


V,  =  ^  {e''^'  +  e-'n 


(2.3.5) 


F2  can  be  written 


=  Ye-"'''''^''^'''  cos  [-jj^(r,  -  Vi)z\ 
In  the  case  when  x  =  6,  and  /Si  =  /32  =  /8 

F2  =  Ye"'^'  cos  Wiix  +  h)^z\  (2.3.6) 

Correspondingly,  it  can  be  shown  that  the  voltage  on  the  inner  helix  is 

y,  =  j\Tfr^^'  sin  Wiix  +  h)^z\  (2.3.7) 

The  last  tAvo  equations  exhibit  clearly  what  we  have  called  the  spatial 
beat  phenomonou,  a  wave-like  transfer  of  power  from  one  helix  to  thc^ 


COUPLED   HELICES  .  137 

other  and  back.  We  started,  arbitrarily,  with  all  the  voltage  on  the  outer 
helix  at  2  =  0,  and  none  on  the  inner;  after  a  distance,  z',  which  makes 
the  argument  of  the  cosine  x/2,  there  is  no  voltage  on  the  outer  helix 
and  all  is  on  the  inner. 

To  conform  with  published  material  let  us  define  what  we  shall  call 
the  "coupling  phase-constant"  as 

^,  =  ^{h  +  x)  (2.3.8) 

From  (2.3.3)  we  find  that  for  (Si  =  ^2  =  |S,  and  x  =  h, 

Tt  -  Ti  =  jl3c 

2.4  Non-Synchronous  Helix  Solutions 

Let  us  now  go  back  to  the  more  general  case  where  the  propagation 
velocities  of  the  (uncoupled)  helices  are  not  equal.  Eciuation  (2.2.5)  can 
be  written: 


Further,  let  us  define 


(2.4.1) 


r-  =   -^-  [1  +  (1/2)A  +  xb  ± 

V(l  +  xb)A  +  (1/4)A2  +  (6  +  xy] 
where 

L       /3       _ 
In  the  case  where  x  =  h,  (2.4.1)  has  an  exact  root. 

r,, ,  =  j^  [Vl  +  A/4  ±  1/2  Va  +  (a;  +  by]  (2.4.2) 

We  shall  be  interested  in  the  difference  between  Tt  and  Tt, 

Tt-Tf  =  j^  Va  +  (x  +  by-  (2.4.3) 

Now  we  substitute  for  A  and  find 

Tt-  Tc  =  j  V(^i  -  ^2y  +  ^M&  +  4'  (2.4.4) 

Let  us  define  the  "beat  phase-constant"  as: 

Pb  =  V(/3i  -  /32)2  +  nb  +  xy 

so  that 

r,  -  r,  =  jA  (2.4.5) 


(3a  =  \  i5i  -  iSo 


138  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

and  call  this  the  "difference  phase-constant,"  i.e.,  the  hase  constant  cor- 
responding to  two  uncoupled  waves  of  the  same  frequency  but  differing 
phase  velocities.  We  can  thus  state  the  relation  between  these  phase 
constants : 

^b'  =  &I  +  ^c  (2.4.6) 

This  relation  is  identical  (except  for  notation)  with  expression  (33)  in 
S.  E.  Miller's  paper. ^  In  this  paper  Miller  also  gives  expressions  for  the 
voltage  amplitudes  in  two  coupled  transmission  systems  in  the  case  of 
unequal  phase  velocities.  It  turns  out  that  in  such  a  case  the  power  trans- 
fer from  one  system  to  the  other  is  necessarily  incomplete.  This  is  of 
particular  interest  to  us,  in  connection  with  a  number  of  practical 
schemes.  In  our  notation  it  is  relatively  simple,  and  we  can  state  it  by 
saying  that  the  maximum  fraction  of  power  transferred  is 

(2.4.7) 


or,  in  more  detail, 


iS/  +  iSc-       (^1  -  iS2)-  +  ^Kh  +  xY 

This  relationship  can  be  shown  to  be  a  good  approximation  from  (2.2.6), 
(2.3.4),  (2.4.2),  on  the  assumption  that  h  ^  x  and  Zx  'PH  Z2 ,  and  the 
further  assumption  that  the  system  is  lossless;  that  is, 

I  72  I  ^  +  I  Fi  I  ^  =  constant  (2.4.8) 

We  note  that  the  phase  velocity  difference  gives  rise  to  two  phenomena : 
It  reduces  the  coupling  w^avelength  and  it  reduces  the  amount  of  power 
that  can  be  transferred  from  one  helix  to  the  other. 

Something  should  be  said  about  the  case  where  the  two  helix  imped- 
ances are  not  equal,  since  this,  indeed,  is  usually  the  case  with  coupled 
concentric  helices.  Equation  (2.4.8)  becomes: 

I  F2 1    _^  \Vx\_  ^  (3Qj^g^^j^^  (2.4.9) 


Z2  Z\ 

Using  this  relation  it  is  found  from  (2.3.4)  that 


F2  ,  /Zi 

FiT  z, 


(1  ±  Vl  -  /^)  (2.4.10) 


When  Ihis  is  combined  with  (2.2.6)  it  is  found  that  the  impedances  droj) 
out  with  the  voltages,  and  that  "F"  is  a  function  of  the  |S's  only.  In  other 


COUPLED   HELICES  139 

words,  complete  power  transfer  occurs  when  ,81  =  /So  regardless  of  the 
relative  impedances  of  the  helices. 

The  reader  will  remember  that  (3io  and  (820 ,  not  jSi  and  ^o ,  were  defined 
as  the  phase  constants  of  the  helices  in  the  absence  of  each  other.  If  the 
assumption  that  h  ^  x  is  maintained,  it  will  be  found  that  all  of  the  de- 
rived relationships  hold  true  when  (Sno  is  substituted  for  /3„  .  In  other 
words,  throughout  the  paper,  /3i  and  /So  may  be  treated  as  the  phase  con- 
stants of  the  inner  and  outer  helices,  respectively.  In  particular  it  should 
be  noted  that  if  these  ciuantities  are  to  be  measured  experimentally  each 
helix  must  be  kept  in  the  same  environment  as  if  the  helices  were  coupled ; 
onl}^  the  other  helix  may  be  removed.  That  is,  if  there  is  dielectric  in  the 
annular  region  between  the  coupled  helices,  /Si  and  ^2  must  each  be 
measured  in  the  presence  of  that  dielectric. 

Miller  also  has  treated  the  case  of  lossy  coupled  transmission  systems. 
The  expressions  are  lengthy  and  complicated  and  we  believe  that  no 
substantial  error  is  made  in  simply  applying  his  conclusions  to  our  case. 

If  the  attenuation  constants  ai  and  ao  of  the  two  transmission  systems 
(helices)  are  equal,  no  change  is  required  in  our  expressions;  when  they 
are  unequal  the  total  available  power  (in  both  helices)  is  most  effectively 
reduced  when 

^4^'^l  (2.4.11) 

Pc 

This  fact  may  be  made  use  of  in  designing  coupled  helix  attenuators. 

2.5  A  Look  at  the  Fields 

It  may  be  advantageous  to  consider  sketches  of  typical  field  distribu- 
tions in  coupled  helices,  as  in  Fig.  2.1,  before  we  go  on  to  derive  a  quanti- 
tative estimate  of  the  coupling  factors  actually  obtainable  in  practice. 

Fig.  2.1(a)  shows,  diagrammatically,  electric  field  lines  when  the 
coupled  helices  are  excited  in  the  fast  or  "longitudinal"  mode.  To  set  up 
this  mode  only,  one  has  to  supply  voltages  of  like  sign  and  equal  ampli- 
tudes to  both  helices.  For  this  reason,  this  mode  is  also  sometimes  called 
the  "(+-f)  mode." 

Fig.  2.1(b)  shows  the  electric  field  lines  when  the  helices  are  excited  in 
the  slow  or  "transverse"  mode.  This  is  the  kind  of  field  required  in  the 
transverse  interaction  type  of  traveling  wave  tube.  In  order  to  excite 
this  mode  it  is  necessary  to  supply  voltages  of  equal  amplitude  and 
opposite  signs  to  the  helices  and  for  this  reason  it  is  sometimes  called  the 
"(-| — )  mode."  One  way  of  exciting  this  mode  consists  in  connecting  one 


140  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

helix  to  one  of  the  two  conductors  of  a  balanced  transmission  line 
("Lecher"-line)  and  the  other  hehx  to  the  other. 

Fig.  2.1(c)  shows  the  electric  field  configuration  when  fast  and  slow 
modes  are  both  present  and  equally  strongly  excited.  We  can  imagine 
the  two  helices  being  excited  by  a  voltage  source  connected  to  the  outer 


(a)   FAST    WAVE    (longitudinal) 


(b)   SLOW    WAVE    (transverse) 


(C)   fast   and    slow    waves    combined    SHOWING    SPATIAL  "BEAT"  PHENOMENON 


Fig.  2.1  — Typical  electric  field  distributions  in  coupled  coaxial  helices  when 
thej^  are  excited  in:  (a)  the  in-phase  or  lonfritudinal  mode,  (b)  the  out-of-phase  or 
transverse  mode,  and  (c)  both  modes  equally. 


COUPLED    HELICES  141 

helix  only  at  the  far  left  side  of  the  sketch.  One,  perfectly  legitimate, 
view  of  the  situation  is  that  the  RF  power,  initially  all  on  the  outer  helix, 
leaks  into  the  inner  helix  because  of  the  coupling  between  them,  and  then 
leaks  back  to  the  outer  helix,  and  so  forth. 

Apart  from  noting  the  appearance  of  the  stationary  spatial  beat  (or 
interference)  phenomenon  these  additional  facts  are  of  interest: 

1)  It  is  a  simple  matter  to  excite  such  a  beat- wave,  for  instance,  by 
connecting  a  lead  to  either  one  or  the  other  of  the  helices,  and 

2)  It  should  be  possible  to  discontinue  either  one  of  the  helices,  at 
points  where  there  is  no  current  (voltage)  on  it,  without  causing  reflec- 
tions. 

2.6  A  Simple  Estimate  of  h  and  x 

How  strong  a  coupling  can  one  expect  from  concentric  helices  in  prac- 
tice? Quantitatively,  this  is  expressed  by  the  values  of  the  coupling  fac- 
tors X  and  h,  which  we  shall  now  proceed  to  estimate. 

A  first  crude  estimate  is  based  on  the  fact  that  slow-wave  fields  are 
known  to  fall  off  in  intensity  somewhat  as  c  where  (3  is  the  phase  con- 
stant of  the  wave  and  r  the  distance  from  the  surface  guiding  the  slow 
wave.  Thus  a  unit  charge  placed,  say,  on  the  inner  helix,  will  induce  a 
charge  of  opposite  sign  and  of  magnitude 

-Pib-a) 

on  the  outer  helix.  Here  h  =  mean  radius  of  the  outer  helix  and  a  = 
mean  radius  of  the  inner.  We  note  that  the  shunt  mutual  admittance 
coupling  factor  is  negative,  irrespective  of  the  directions  in  which  the 
helices  are  wound.  Because  of  the  similarity  of  the  magnetic  and  electric 
field  distributions  a  current  flowing  on  the  inner  helix  will  induce  a  simi- 
larly attenuated  current,  of  amplitude 

on  the  outer  helix.  The  direction  of  the  induced  current  will  depend  on 
whether  the  helices  are  woimd  in  the  same  sense  or  not,  and  it  turns  out 
(as  one  can  verify  by  reference  to  the  low-freciuency  case  of  coaxial 
coupled  coils)  that  the  series  mutual  impedance  coupling  factor  is  nega- 
tive when  the  helices  are  oppositely  wound. 

In  order  to  obtain  the  greatest  possible  coupling  between  concentric 
helices,  both  coupling  factors  should  have  the  same  sign.  This  then  re- 
fiuires  that  the  helices  should  be  wound  in  opposite  directions,  as  has 
been  pointed  out  by  Pierce. 

When  the  distance  between  the  two  helices  goes  to  zero,  that  is  to  say, 


142  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

.if  they  lie  in  the  same  surface,  it  is  clear  that  both  coupling  factors  h  and  x 
will  go  to  unity. 

As  pointed  out  earlier  in  Section  2.3,  the  choice  of  sign  for  h  is  arbi- 
trary. However,  once  a  sign  for  h  has  been  chosen,  the  sign  of  x  is  neces- 
sarily the  opposite  when  the  helices  are  wound  in  the  same  direction,  and 
vice  versa.  We  shall  choose,  therefore, 

the  sign  of  the  latter  depending  on  whether  the  helices  are  wound  in  the 
same  direction  or  not. 

In  the  case  of  unequal  velocities,  (5,  the  propagation  constant,  would 
be  given  by 

1^  =  VM~2  (2.6.2) 

2.7  Strength  of  Coupling  versus  Frequency 

The  exponential  variation  of  coupling  factors  with  respect  to  frequency 
(since  /3  =  co/y)  has  an  important  consequence.  Consider  the  expression 
for  the  coupling  phase  constant 

/3.  =  I3{b  +  x)  (2.3.8) 

or 

l/3e|  =  2/3^"^^'""^  (2.7.1) 

The  coupling  wavelength,  which  is  defined  as 


Ac 
is,  therefore, 


27r 


(2.7.2) 


or 


Xc-  -e 


X,  =  ;^  g(2./x)u.-«)  (2.7.3) 

where  X  is  the  (slowed-down)  RF  wavelength  on  either  helix.  It  is  con- 
venient to  multiply  both  sides  of  (2.7.1)  with  a,  the  inner  helix  radius, 
in  order  to  obtain  a  dimensionless  relation  between  /3c  and  /3: 

^,a  =  2/3ac~^''"''°^""  (2.7.4) 

This  relalion  is  j)l()Ued  on  Fig.  2.2  for  several  values  of  b/a. 


COUPLED   HELICES 


143 


3.00 


2.75 


2.50 


2.25 


2.00 


/3ca 


1.75 


1.50 


1.25 


i.OO 


0.75 


0.50 


0.25 


^^ 

— - 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 
/ 

l-y 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 
/ 
J 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/(/Jc3)max 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

1 

/ 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 

^ 

/ 

b 

=  1.5 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

f 

^ 

, 

V 

/ 

^^ 

'" 

\ 

1 

-\ 

"^^^ — 1 

75 

L 

2.0 

■\ 

/ 

"^ 

■-^ 

3.0 

— - 



0.5 


1.5 


2.0 


2.5 

/3a 


3.0 


3.5        4.0 


4.5 


5.0 


Fig.  2.2  —  Coupling  pliase-constant  plotted  as  a  function  of  the  single  helix 
phase-constant  for  synchronous  helices  for  several  values  of  b/a.  These  curves 
are  based  on  simple  estimates  made  in  Section  2.7. 


There  are  two  opposing  tendencies  determining  the  actual  physical 
length  of  a  coupling  beat-wavelength: 

1)  It  tends  to  grow  with  the  RF  wavelength,  being  proportional  to  it 
in  the  first  instance; 

2)  Because  of  the  tighter  coupling  possible  as  the  RF  wavelength 
increases  in  relation  to  the  heli.x-to-helix  distance,  the  coupling  beat- 
wavelength  tends  to  shrink. 

Therefore,  there  is  a  region  where  these  tendencies  cancel  each  other, 
and  where  one  would  expect  to  find  little  change  of  the  coupling  beat- 
wavelength  for  a  considerable  change  of  RF  freciuency.  In  other  words, 
the  "bandwidth"  over  which  the  beat-wavelength  stays  nearly  constant 
can  be  large. 

This  is  a  situation  naturally  very  desirable  and  favorable  for  any 
device  in  which  we  rely  on  power  transfer  from  one  helix  to  the  other  by 


144  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

means  of  a  length  of  overlap  between  them  an  integral  number  of  half 
beat-wavelengths  long.  Ob^'iously,  one  will  design  the  helices  in  such  a 
way  as  to  take  advantage  of  this  situation. 

Optimiun  conditions  are  easily  obtained  by  dijfferentiating  ^c  with 
respect  to  (3  and  setting  d^c/d^  equal  to  zero.  This  gives  for  the  optimum 
conditions 


^opt    — 


1 


b  —  a 


(2.7.5) 


or 


Pc  opt 


2e 


h  —  a 


=  2e  ')8opt 


(2.7.6) 


Equation  (2.7.5),  then,  determines  the  ratio  of  the  helix  radii  if  it  is  re- 
quired that  deviations  from  a  chosen  operating  frequency  shall  have 
least  effect. 

2.8  Field  Solutions 

In  treating  the  problem  of  coaxial  coupled  helices  from  the  transmis- 
sion line  point  of  view  one  important  fact  has  not  been  considered, 
namely,  the  dispersive  character  of  the  phase  constants  of  the  separate 
helices,  /3i  and  fS-i  .  By  dispersion  we  mean  change  of  phase  velocity  with 
frequency.  If  the  dispersion  of  the  inner  and  outer  helices  were  the  same 
it  would  be  of  little  consequence.  It  is  well  known,  however,  that  the 
dispersion  of  a  helical  transmission  line  is  a  function  of  the  ratio  of  helix 
radius  to  wavelength,  and  thus  becomes  a  parameter  to  be  considered. 
When  the  theory  of  wave  propagation  on  a  helix  was  solved  by  means  of 
Maxwell's  equations  subject  to  the  boundary  condition  of  a  helically 
conducting  cylindrical  sheath,  the  phenomenon  of  dispersion  first  made 
its  appearance.  It  is  clear,  therefore,  that  a  more  complete  theory  of 


/i 


'V^       'TV 


Fig.  2.3  —  ShoMtli  liolix  arrangement  on  which  the  field  equations  are  based. 


COUPLED    HELICES  145 

coupled  helices  will  require  similar  treatment,  namely,  Maxwell's  equa- 
tions solved  now  with  the  boundary  conditions  of  two  cylindrical  heli- 
cally conducting  sheaths.  As  shown  on  Fig.  2.3,  the  inner  helix  is  specified 
by  its  radius  a  and  the  angle  1^1  made  by  the  direction  of  conductivity 
with  a  plane  perpendicular  to  the  axis;  and  the  outer  helix  by  its  radius 
h  (not  to  be  confused  with  the  mutual  coupling  coefficient  5)  and  its 
corresponding  pitch  angle  i/'-j  .  We  note  here  that  oppositely  wound  helices 
require  opposite  signs  for  the  angles  \f/i  and  i/'o  ;  and,  further,  that  helices 
with  equal  phase  velocities  will  ha\'e  pitch  angles  of  about  the  same 
absolute  magnitude. 

The  method  of  solving  Maxwell's  equations  subject  to  the  above  men- 
tioned boundary  conditions  is  given  in  Appendix  I.  We  restrict  our- 
selves here  to  giving  some  of  the  results  in  graphical  form. 

The  most  universally  used  parameter  in  traveling-wave  tube  design  is 
a  combination  of  parameters: 

/3oa  cot  \pi 

where  (So  =  27r/Xo ,  Xo  being  the  free-space  wavelength,  a  the  radius  of 
the  inner  helix,  and  xpi  the  pitch  angle  of  the  inner  helix.  The  inner  helix 
is  chosen  here  in  preference  to  the  outer  helix  because,  in  practice,  it  will 
be  part  of  a  traveling-wave  tube,  that  is  to  say,  inside  the  tube  envelope. 
Thus,  it  is  not  only  less  accessible  and  changeable,  but  determines  the 
important  aspects  of  a  traveling-wave  tube,  such  as  gain,  power  output, 
and  efficiency. 

The  theory  gives  solutions  in  terms  of  radial  propagation  constants 
which  we  shall  denote  jt  and  yt  (bj^  analogy  with  the  transverse  and 
longitudinal  modes  of  the  transmission  line  theory).  These  propagation 
constants  are  related  to  the  axial  propagation  constants  ^t  and  j3(  by 

Of  course,  in  transmission  line  theory  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  radial 
propagation  constant.  The  propagation  constant  derived  there  and  de- 
noted r  corresponds  here  to  the  axial  propagation  constant  j^.  By 
analogy  with  (2.4.5)  the  beat  phase  constant  should  be  written 

How^ever,  in  practice  ^0  is  usually  much  smaller  than  j3  and  Ave  can  there- 
fore write  with  little  error 

iSfc  =  7e  —  li 
for  the  beat  phase  constant.  For  practical  purposes  it  is  convenient  to 


146  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


J.OU 

_^^ 



1 

3i.Z0 

COT  ^2    _        „„„ 

;:^ 

^ 

COTV'i 

-0.90.. 

\ 

!^ 

-0.82,^ 

^ 

:J^ 

2.80 

>^ 

<r 

Q  2.40 
^2.00 

^ 

/. 

^ 

// 

/ 

^ 

|=,.25 

1.  60 

1.20 

i 

/// 

0.80 

0.5 


1.0 


2.0  2.5 

/io  a  COT  ^, 


3.0 


3.5 


4.0 


4.5 


Fig.  2.4.1  —  Beat  phase-constant  plotted  as  a  function  of  /3oa  cot  i^i  •  These 
curves  result  from  the  solution  of  the  field  equations  given  in  the  appendix.  For 
hi  a  =  1.25. 

normalize  in  terms  of  the  inner  helix  radius,  a: 


jSbO 


7<a  —  7/a 


This  has  been  plotted  as  a  function  of  /5o  a  cot  i/'i  in  Fig.  2.4,  which 
should  be  compared  with  Fig.  2.2.  It  will  be  seen  that  there  is  considerable 
agreement  between  the  results  of  the  two  methods, 

2.9  Bifilar  Helix 

The  failure  of  the  transmission  line  theory  to  take  into  account  dis- 
persion is  well  illustrated  in  the  case  of  the  bifilar  helix.  Here  we  have 
two  identical  helices  wound  in  the  same  sense,  and  at  the  same  radius. 
If  the  two  wires  are  fed  in  phase  we  have  the  normal  mode  characterized 
by  the  sheath  helix  model  whose  propagation  constant  is  the  familiar 
Curve  A  of  Fig.  2.5.  If  the  two  wires  of  the  helix  are  fed  out  of  phase  we 
have  the  bifilar  mode;  and,  since  that  is  a  two  wure  transmission  system, 
we  shall  have  a  TEM  mode  which,  in  the  absence  of  dielectric,  propa- 
gates along  the  wire  with  the  velocity  of  light.  Hence,  the  propagation 
constant  for  this  mode  is  simplj'  /3oa  cot  \p  and  gives  rise  to  the  horizontal 


COUPLED    HELICES 


147 


1.80 


1.60 


(0 

n  1.40 
<5. 


I 
to 

t.OO 


0.80 


0.60 


b. 

^ 

^>. 

"^ 

"a"'" 

A 

s 

^ 

N. 

\. 

\^ 

i 

& 

\ 

\ 

^ 

■^ 

0.82 

w 

^   =  -0.98 

COT^, 

^ 

0.90 

^V 

^ 

// 

/ 

\ 

\ 

v 

J, 

/ 

\ 

\ 

\, 

t 

\ 

f 

\ 

f 

0.5 


1.0 


1.5 


2.0  2.5 

/3oaCOTi^, 


3.0 


3.5 


4.0 


4.5 


Fig.  2.4.2  —  Beat  phase-constant  plotted  as  a  function  of  /3oa  cot  ^i-i  .  These 
curves  result  from  the  solution  of  the  field  equations  given  in  the  appendix.  For 
hia  =  1.5. 

line  of  Curve  B  in  Fig.  2.5.  Again  the  coupling  phase  constant  j3c  is  given 
by  the  difference  of  the  individual  phase  constants: 


^cO-  —  /3oa  cot  \f/  —  ya 


(2.9.1) 


which  is  plotted  in  Fig.  2.6.  Now  note  that  when  /So  <3C  7  this  equation  is 
accurate,  for  it  represents  a  solution  of  the  field  equations  for  the  helix. 

From  the  simple  unsophisticated  transmission  line  point  of  view  no 
coupling  between  the  two  helices  would,  of  course,  have  been  expected, 
since  the  two  helices  are  identical  in  every  way  and  their  mutual  capacity 
and  inductance  should  then  be  equal  and  opposite. 

Experiments  confirm  the  essential  correctness  of  (2.9.1).  In  one  experi- 
ment, which  was  performed  to  measure  the  coupling  wavelength  for  the 
l)ifilar  helices,  we  used  helices  with  a  cot  1/'  =  3.49  and  a  radius  of  0.036 
cm  which  gave  a  value,  at  3,000  mc,  of  ^oa  cot  i^  =  0.51 .  In  these  experi- 
ments the  coupling  length,  L,  defined  by 

(/3oa  cot  xp  —  7a)  —  =   TT 
a 

was  measured  to  be  15.7o  as  compared  to  a  value  of  13.5a  from  Fig.  2.6. 
At  4,000  mc  the  measured  coupling  length  was  14.6a  as  compared  to 


148  THE    BELL   vSYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


1.20 

b 
a 

1.76 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

^ 

X, 

/ 

y 

^ 

^ 
S. 

X 

1.00 

/ 

V 

\ 

^. 

-\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

P> 

•^.82 

0.80 

r — 

\ 

^ 

<5. 

COT^ 
COT^ 

N 

^  =  -0.9 
1 

k^ 

"^^^ 

0.90 

(0  0.60 

a  >s^ 

X 

<0 

'^  0.40 

^ 

. 

0.20 

0 
< 

D 

0 

5 

1 

0 

1 

5 

2 

.0 

2 

.5 
^1 

3.0 

3.5 

4.0 

4 

Fig.  2.4.3  —  Beat  phase-constant  plotted  as  a  function  of  ^^a  cot  -^x  .  These 
curves  result  from  the  solution  of  the  field  equations  given  in  the  appendix.  For 
hi  a  =  1.75. 

12.6a  computed  from  Fig.  2.6,  thus  confirming  the  theoretical  prediction 
rather  well.  The  slight  increase  in  coupling  length  is  attributable  to  the 
dielectric  loading  of  the  helices  which  were  supported  in  quartz  tubing. 
The  dielectric  tends  to  decrease  the  dispersion  and  hence  reduce  /3,.  .  This 
is  discussed  further  in  the  next  section. 


2.10  Effect  of  Dielectric  Material  hetween  Helices 

In  many  cases  which  are  of  interest  in  practice  there  is  dielectric  ma- 
terial between  the  helices.  In  particular  when  coupled  helices  are  used 
with  traveling-wave  tubes,  the  tube  envelope,  which  may  be  of  glass, 
quartz,  or  ceramic,  all  but  fills  the  space  between  the  two  helices. 

It  is  therefore  of  interest  to  know  whether  such  dielectric  makes  any 
difference  to  the  estimates  at  which  we  arrived  earlier.  We  should  not  be 
surprised  to  find  the  coupling  strengthened  by  the  presence  of  the  di- 
electric, because  it  is  known  that  dielectrics  tend  to  rob  RF  fields  from 
the  surrounding  space,  leading  to  an  increase  in  the  energy  flow  through 
the  dielectric.  On  the  other  hand,  tlio  dielectric  tends  to  bind  the  fields 
closer  to  the  conducting  medium.  To  find  a  qualitative  answer  to  this 
question  we  have  calculated  the  relative  coupling  phase  constants  for 
two  sheath  helices  of  infinite  radius  separated  by  a  distance  "d"  for  1) 


COUPLED    HELICES 


149 


1.00 

b 

-a-^.u 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

^ 

j^ 

^ 

COT  Tp2 

^ 

^ 

C  0.60 

)^ 

1    0.40 
m 

y 

^ 

COT  }^, 

^ 1 

> 

-^ 

S^ 

^ 

. , 

— 

-0. 

90 

=- 

-- 

V 

^, 

i 

^ 



^0^ 

98 

0.20 

1 

0 

1 

( 

3 

0 

5 

1 

0 

1 

5 

2 

0 

>oac 

2.5 

3 

.0 

3 

.5 

4 

0 

4. 

Fig.  2.4.4  —  Beat  phase-constant  plotted  as  a  function  of  /3oa  cot  ^i  .  These 
curves  result  from  the  solution  of  the  field  equations  given  in  the  appendix.  For 
b/a  =  2.0. 

the  case  with  dielectric  between  them  having  a  relative  dielectric  con- 
stant e'  =  4,  and  2)  the  case  of  no  dielectric.  The  pitch  angles  of  the  two 
helices  were  \p  and  —xp,  respectively;  i.e.,  the  helices  were  assumed  to  be 
synchronous,  and  wound  in  the  opposite  sense. 
■  Fig.  2.7  shows  a  plot  of  the  ratio  of  /3,,.//3,  to  ^d^  versus  /3o  (f//2)  cotiA, 


1.00 


0.80 


to 
n 

«5.  0.60 

II 
m 

i    0.40 


0.20 


b 

a-o.u 

^y 

^ 

>< 

^ 

y 

COT  ^2 

^ 

\>^ 

^-- 

COT  5^, 

-^ 

r 

/, 

^ 
^ 

==^ 

"^^ 

N^ 

^^ 

y^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

f/ 

^ 

^ 

N. 

^ 

-c 

).90 

-^ 

r 

\ 

-^ 

_ 

-o.s 

?8 

, 

^ 

0.5 


1.0 


f.5 


2.0  2.5 

/JoacoT;^, 


3.0 


3.5 


4.0 


4.5 


Fig.  2.4.5  — ■  Beat  phase-constant  plotted  as  a  function  of  (3o«  cot  ^\  .  These 
curves  result  from  the  solution  of  the  field  equations  given  in  the  appendix.  For 
Va  =  3.0. 


150  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


2.4 


0.5       ).0       1.5      2.0      2. 


5      3.0      3.5 
/3oaCOT^ 


4.0      4.5 


Fig.  2.5  —  Propagation  constants  for  a  bifilar  helix  plotted  as  a  function  of 
/3oa  cot  i/-!  .  The  curves  illustrate,  (A)  the  dispersive  character  of  the  in-phase 
mode  and,  (B)  the  non-dispersive  character  of  the  out-of -phase  mode. 

where  ^^  is  the  coupling  phase-constant  in  the  presence  of  dielectric, 
/3j  is  the  phase-constant  of  each  helix  alone  in  the  presence  of  the  same 
dielectric,  ^c  is  the  coupling  phase-constant  with  no  dielectric,  and  (3  is 
the  phase  constant  of  each  helix  in  free  space.  In  many  cases  of  interest 
/3o(d/2)  cot  lA  is  greater  than  1.2.  Then 


3£    +  1" 
_2£'  +  2_ 


g—(v'2« '+2-2)^0  (dl2)  cot  \l/ 


(2.10.1) 


Appearing  in  the  same  figure  is  a  similar  plot  for  the  case  when  there  is  a 
conducting  shield  inside  the  inner  helix  and  outside  the  outer,  and 
separated  a  distance,  "s,"  from  the  helices.  Note  that 

c?  =  6  —  a. 


It  appears  from  these  calculations  that  the  effect  of  the  presence  of 
dielectric  between  the  helices  depends  largely  on  the  parameter  /So  (d/2) 
cot  \{/.  For  values  of  this  parameter  larger  than  0.3  the  coupling  wave- 
length tends  to  increase  in  terms  of  circuit  wavelength.  For  values  smaller 
than  0.3  the  opposite  tends  to  happen.  Note  that  the  curve  representing 
(2.10.1)  is  a  fair  approximation  down  to /3o(c?/2)  cot  i/'  =  0.6  to  the  curve 
representing  the  exact  solution  of  the  field  equations.  J.  W.  Sullivan,  in 
unpublished  work,  has  drawn  similar  conclusions. 


COUPLED   HELICES 


151 


2.11  The  Conditions  for  Maximum  Power  Transfer 

The  transmission  line  theory  has  led  us  to  expect  that  the  most  efficient 
power  transfer  will  take  place  if  the  phase  velocities  on  the  two  helices, 
prior  to  coupling,  are  the  same.  Again,  this  would  be  true  were  it  not  for 
the  dispersion  of  the  helices.  To  evaluate  this  effect  we  have  used  the 
field  equation  to  determine  the  parameter  of  the  coupled  helices  which 
gives  maximum  power  transfer.  To  do  this  we  searched  for  combinations 
of  parameters  which  give  an  equal  current  flow  in  the  helix  sheath  for 
either  the  longitudinal  mode  or  the  transverse  mode.  This  was  suggested 
by  L.  Stark,  who  reasoned  that  if  the  currents  were  equal  for  the  indi- 
vidual modes  the  beat  phenomenon  would  give  points  of  zero  RF  current 
on  the  helix. 

The  values  of  cot  T/'2/cot  4/i  which  are  required  to  produce  this  condi- 
tion are  plotted  in  Fig.  2.8  for  various  values  of  b/a.  Also  there  are  shown 
values  of  cot  ^2/cot  \{/i  required  to  give  equal  axial  velocities  for  the  helices 
before  they  are  coupled.  It  can  be  seen  that  the  uncoupled  velocity  of  the 
inner  helix  must  be  slightly  slower  than  that  of  the  outer. 

A  word  of  caution  is*  necessary  for  these  curves  have  been  plotted 
without  considering  the  effects  of  dielectric  loading,  and  this  can  have  a 
rather  marked  effect  on  the  parameters  which  we  have  been  discussing. 
The  significant  point  brought  out  by  this  calculation  is  that  the  optimum 


u.^o 

r 

N 

0.24 
0.20 

/ 

\ 

\ 

/ 

N 

<D 

/ 

\, 

/ 

N 

/ 

N^ 

0 

^  0.12 

\ 

\^ 

~j 

■^v 

CD 

^■^^^ 

0 

0.08 

f- 

^- 

-^ 

0.04 

0 

04         0.8  1.2  1.6  2.0  2.4 

/3oaCOT  J^, 


2.8 


3.2 


3.6 


4.0 


Fig.  2.6  —  The  coupling  phase-constant  which  results  from  the  two  possible 
modes  of  propagation  on  a  bifilar  helix  shown  as  a  function  of  jSoo  cot  i/-!  . 


152  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHXICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

2.6 

2.4 

2.2 
2.0 

i.8 

1.6 


u 


1.4 


i.2 


1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


PROPAGATION 

DIRECTION 

\ 

\ 

^, 

\ 

L 

VA 

\ 

s 

PLANE  SHEATH  -^^^^"'^  XdiELECTRIC, 
HELICES                         \^^r                e' 
CONDUCTING 
SHIELD 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s=oo 

\ 

\, 

APPROXIMATION 

^^ 

^, 

s 

\ 

"N 

'^ 

\ 

^ 

"^^^ 

■^^ 

o.t 


0.2        0.3 


0.4        0.5 


0.6 


0.7 


0.8 


0.9 


1.0 


1.1 


1.2 


/iofcOT^^ 


Fig.  2.7 — ^  The  effect  of  dielectric  material  between  coupled  infinite  radius 
sheath  helices  on  their  relative  coupling  phase-constant  shown  as  a  function  of 
fiod/2  cot  \pi  .  The  effect  of  shielding  on  this  relation  is  also  indicated. 

condition  for  coupling  is  not  necessarily  associated  with  equal  \'elocities 
on  the  uncoupled  helices. 


2.12  Mode  Impedance 

Before  leaving  the  general  theor_y  of  coupled  helices  something  should 
be  said  regarding  the  impedance  their  modes  present  to  an  electron  beam 
traveling  either  along  their  axis  or  through  the  annular  space  between 
them.  The  field  solutions  for  cross  woimd,  coaxiall}^  coupled  helices, 
which  are  given  in  Appendix  I,  have  been  used  to  compute  the  imped- 
ances of  the  transverse  and  longitudinal  modes.  The  impedance,  /v,  is 
defined,  as  usual,  in  terms  of  the  longitudinal  field  on  the  axis  and  the 
power  flow  along  the  system. 


COUPLED    HELICES 


153 


K  = 


F{ya) 


In  Fig.  2.9,  Fiya),  for  various  I'atios  of  inner  to  outer  radius,  is  plotted 
for  both  the  transverse  and  longitudinal  modes  together  with  the  value 
of  F{ya)  for  the  single  helix  {b/a  =  co).  We  see  that  the  longitudinal 
mode  has  a  higher  impedance  with  cross  wound  coupled  helices  than 
does  a  single  helix.  We  call  attention  here  to  the  fact  that  this  is  the 
same  phenomenon  which  is  encountered  in  the  contrawound  helix^,  where 
the  structure  consists  of  two  oppositely  wound  helices  of  the  same  radius. 
As  defined  here,  the  transverse  mode  has  a  lower  impedance  than  the 
single  helix.  This,  however,  is  not  the  most  significant  comparison;  for 
it  is  the  transverse  field  midway  between  helices  which  is  of  interest  in 
the  transverse  mode.  The  factor  relating  the  impedance  in  terms  of  the 
transverse  field  between  helices  to  the  longitudinal  field  cni  the  axis  is 
Er  (f)/Ei(0),  where  f  is  the  radius  at  which  the  longitudinal  component 
of  the  electric  field  E^ ,  is  zero  for  the  transverse  mode.  This  factor, 
plotted  in  Fig.  2.10  as  a  function  of  /3oa  cot  \l/r ,  shows  that  the  impedance 
in.  terms  of  the  transverse  field  at  f  is  interestingly  high. 


1.00 


0.72 


1.6  2.0  2.4 

/3o  a  COT   Ifi 


4.0 


Fig.  2.8  —  The  values  of  cot  ^^./cot  \pi  required  for  complete  power  transfer 
plotted  as  a  function  of  /3tia  cot  \pi  for  several  values  of  b/a.  For  comparison,  the 
value  of  cot  ^2/cot  \//i  required  for  equal  velocities  on  inner  and  outer  helices  is  also 
shown. 


154  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


F(ra) 


7.0 
6.5 
6.0 
5.5 
5.0 
4.5 
4.0 

3.5 

• 
3.0 

2.5 

2.0 

1.5 

1.0 

0.5 


0.5  (.0         (.5        2.0        2.5        3.0        3.5        4.0        4.5        5.0 

/SoaCOTii', 

Fig.  2.9  — ■  Impedance  parameter,  F(ya),  associated  with  both  transverse  and 
longitudinal  modes  shown  for  several  values  of  b/a.  Also  shown  is  F{ya)  for  a 
single  helix. 

It  is  also  of  interest  to  consider  the  impedance  of  the  longitudinal 
mode  in  terms  of  the  longitudinal  field  between  the  two  helices.  The 
factor,  ^/(f)/£'/(0),  relating  this  to  the  axial  impedance  is  plotted  in 
Fig.  2.11.  We  see  that  rather  high  impedances  can  also  be  obtained  with 
the  longitudinal  field  midway  between  helices.  This,  in  conjunction  with 
a  hollow  electron  beam,  should  provide  efficient  amplification. 


LONGITUDINAL  WAVE 

V 

COT  U/2 

\ 

\^.    V 

\ 

\ 

\        "^ 

^=-0.90 

k      \ 

\ 

COT  U/^ 

V       \ 

\ 

\ 

b.ooV        ^ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

a 

\ 

\ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\-o\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

> 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

L                 \ 

i 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

V 

\ 
\ 

,25\ 

yp 

\ 

\ 

\ 

XT' 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

\        ' 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\  ' 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

k 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\      \ 

\ 

% 

\ 

N, 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 
s 

> 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\, 

V, 

^.0 

\\ 

\ 

N 

s^5 

\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

1=1.2^ 

^^^ 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

'""'^-^ 

^^ 

"^^ 

>., 

'- 

^^ 

^ 

■ 

^^ 

^==^ 

3.    APPLICATION    OF    COUPLED   HELICES 


When  we  come  to  describe  devices  which  make  use  of  coupled  helices 
we  find  that  they  fall,  quite  naturally,  into  two  separate  classes.  One 


COUPLED   HELICES 


155 


class  contains  those  devices  which  depend  on  the  presence  of  only  one  of 
the  two  normal  modes  of  propagation.  The  other  class  of  devices  depends 
on  the  simultaneous  presence,  in  roughly  equal  amounts,  of  both  normal 
modes  of  propagation,  and  is,  in  general,  characterized  by  the  words 
"spatial  beating."  Since  spatial  beating  implies  energy  surging  to  and 
fro  between  inner  and  outer  helix,  there  is  no  special  problem  in  exciting 
both  modes  simultaneously.  Power  fed  exclusively  to  one  or  the  other 


/bo  a  COT  jfi, 


Fiji;.  2.10  —  The  relation  l)et\veen  the  impedance  in  terms  of  the  transverse 
field  between  conpled  helices  excited  in  the  out-of -phase  mode,  and  the  impedance 
in  terms  of  the  longitudinal  field  on  the  axis  shown  as  a  function  of  /3oa  cot  tpi  . 


156 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


helix  will  inevitably  excite  both  modes  equally.  When  it  is  desired  to 
excite  one  mode  exclusively  a  more  difficult  problem  has  to  be  solved. 
Therefore,  in  section  3.1  we  shall  first  discuss  methods  of  exciting  one 
mode  only  before  going  on  to  discuss  in  sections  3.2  and  3.3  devices 
using  one  mode  only. 

In  section  3.4  we  shall  discuss  devices  depending  on  the  simultaneous 
presence  of  both  modes. 

3.1  Excitation  of  Pure  Modes 

3.1.1  Direct  Excitation 

In  order  to  set  up  one  or  the  other  normal  mode  on  coupled  helices, 
voltages  with  specific  phase  and  amplitudes  (or  corresponding  currents) 


E|(f) 
E|(o) 


10^ 
5 

10^ 


10^ 


10' 


10 


10" 


COT 

ip? 

■ —  =  -0.90 

COT  i^, 

1 

/ 

/ 

1 

' 

l-.o/ 

1 

L 

L 

1 

/ 

J 

l\.2b 

/ 

J 

/    J 

/ 

^ 

'^ 

3  A 

/ho  a  COT  1fi^ 


Fig.  2.11  — -The  relation  Ijetween  the  impedance  in  terms  of  the  longitudinal 
field  between  couj)led  helices  excited  in  the  in-phase  mode,  and  the  impedance  in 
terms  of  the  longitudinal  field  on  the  axis  shown  as  a  function  of  /3offl  cot  \pi  . 


COUPLED   HELICES  157 

have  to  be  supplied  to  each  helix  at  the  input  end.  A  natural  way  of  doing 
this  might  be  by  means  of  a  two-conductor  balanced  transmission  line 
(Lecher-line),  one  conductor  being  connected  to  the  inner  helix,  the  other 
to  the  outer  helix.  Such  an  arrangement  would  cause  something  like  the 
transverse  (-| — )  mode  to  be  set  up  on  the  helices.  If  the  two  con- 
ductors and  the  balanced  line  can  be  shielded  from  each  other  starting 
some  distance  from  the  helices  then  it  is,  in  principle,  possible  to  intro- 
duce arbitrary  amounts  of  extra  delay  into  one  of  the  conductors.  A  delay 
of  one  half  period  would  then  cause  the  longitudinal  (  +  +  )  mode  to  be 
set  up  in  the  helices.  Clearly  such  a  coupling  scheme  would  not  be 
broad-band  since  a  frequency-independent  delay  of  one  half  period  is  not 
realizable. 

Other  objections  to  both  of  these  schemes  are:  Balanced  lines  are  not 
generally  used  at  microwave  frequencies;  it  is  difficult  to  bring  leads 
through  the  envelope  of  a  TWT  without  causing  reflection  of  RF  energy 
and  without  unduly  encumbering  the  mechanical  design  of  the  tube  plus 
circuits;  both  schemes  are  necessarily  inexact  because  helices  having 
different  radii  will,  in  general,  require  different  voltages  at  either  input 
in  order  to  be  excited  in  a  pure  mode. 

Thus  the  practicability,  and  success,  of  any  general  scheme  based  on 
the  existence  of  a  pure  transverse  or  a  pure  longitudinal  mode  on  coupled 
helices  will  depend  to  a  large  extent  on  whether  elegant  coupling  means 
are  available.  Such  means  are  indeed  in  existence  as  will  be  shown  in  the 
next  sections. 

3.1.2  Tapered  Coupler 

A  less  direct  but  more  elegant  means  of  coupling  an  external  circuit 
to  either  normal  mode  of  a  double  helix  arrangement  is  by  the  use  of  the 
so-called  "tapered"  coupler.^'  ^'  ^^  By  appropriately  tapering  the  relative 
propagation  velocities  of  the  inner  and  outer  helices,  outside  the  inter- 
action region,  one  can  excite  either  normal  mode  by  coupling  to  one 
helix  only. 

The  principle  of  this  coupler  is  based  on  the  fact  that  any  two  coupled 
transmission  lines  support  two,  and  only  two,  normal  modes,  regardless 
of  their  relative  phase  velocities.  These  normal  modes  are  characterized 
by  unequal  wave  amplitudes  on  the  two  lines  if  the  phase  velocities  are 
not  equal.  Indeed  the  greater  the  phase  velocity  difference  and /or 
the  smaller  the  coupling  coefficient  between  the  lines,  the  more  their 
wave  amplitudes  diverge.  Furthermore,  the  wave  amplitude  on  the  line 
with  the  slower  phase  velocity  is  greater  for  the  out-of-phase  or  trans- 
verse normal  mode,  and  the  wave  amplitude  on  the  faster  line  is  greater 


158  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    195G 

for  the  longitudinal  normal  mode.  As  the  ratio  of  phase  constant  to 
coupling  constant  approaches  infinity,  the  ratio  of  the  wave  amplitudes 
on  the  two  lines  does  also.  Finally,  if  the  phase  velocities  of,  or  coupling 
between,  two  coupled  helices  are  changed  gradually  along  their  length 
the  normal  modes  existing  on  the  pair  roughly  maintain  their  identity 
evan  though  they  change  their  character.  Thus,  by  properly  tapering  the 
phase  velocities  and  coupling  strength  of  any  two  coupled  helices  one 
can  cause  the  two  normal  modes  to  become  two  separate  waves,  one 
existing  on  each  helix. 

For  instance,  if  one  desires  to  extract  a  signal  propagating  in  the  in- 
phase,  or  longitudinal,  normal  mode  from  two  concentric  helices  of  equal 
phase  velocity,  one  might  gradually  increase  the  pitch  of  the  outer  helix 
and  decrease  that  of  the  inner,  and  at  the  same  time  increase  the  diameter 
of  the  outer  helix  to  decrease  the  coupling,  until  the  longitudinal  mode 
exists  as  a  wave  on  the  outer  helix  only.  At  such  a  point  the  outer  helix 
may  be  connected  to  a  coaxial  line  and  the  signal  brought  out. 

This  kind  of  coupler  has  the  advantage  of  being  frequency  insensitive ; 
and,  perhaps,  operable  over  bandwidths  upwards  of  two  octaves.  It 
has  the  disadvantage  of  being  electrically,  and  sometimes  physically, 
quite  long. 

3.1.3  Stepped  Coupler 

There  is  yet  a  third  way  to  excite  only  one  normal  mode  on  a  double 
helix.  This  scheme  consists  of  a  short  length  at  each  end  of  the  outer  helix, 
for  instance,  which  has  a  pitch  slightly  different  from  the  rest.  This 
has  been  called  a  "stepped"  coupler. 

The  principle  of  the  stepped  coupler  is  this:  If  two  coupled  transmis- 
sion lines  have  unlike  phase  velocities  then  a  wave  initiated  in  one  line 
can  never  be  completely  transferred  to  the  other,  as  has  been  shown  in 
Section  2.4.  The  greater  the  velocity  difference  the  less  will  be  the  maxi- 
mum transfer.  One  can  choose  a  velocity  difference  such  that  the  maxi- 
mum power  transfer  is  just  one  half  the  initial  power.  It  is  a  characteristic 
of  incomplete  power  transfer  that  at  the  point  where  the  maximum  trans- 
fer occurs  the  waves  on  the  two  lines  are  exactly  either  in-phase  or  out-of- 
phase,  depending  on  which  helix  was  initially  excited.  Thus,  the  condi- 
tions for  a  normal  mode  on  two  equal-velocity  helices  can  be  produced 
at  the  maximum  transfer  point  of  two  unlike  velocity  helices  by  initiating 
a  wave  on  only  one  of  them.  If  at  that  point  the  helix  pitches  are  changed 
to  give  equal  phase  velocities  in  both  helices,  with  equal  current  or  volt- 
age amplitude  on  both  helices,  either  one  or  the  other  of  the  two  normal 
modes  will  be  propagated  on  the  two  helices  from  there  on.  Although  the 


COUPLED   HELICES  159 

pitch  and  length  of  such  a  stepped  coupler  are  rather  critical,  the  re- 
quirements are  indicated  in  the  equations  in  Section  2.4. 

The  useful  bandwidth  of  the  stepped  coupler  is  not  as  great  as  that 
of  the  tapered  variety,  but  may  be  as  much  as  an  octave.  It  has  however 
the  advantage  of  being  very  much  shorter  and  simpler  than  the  tapered 
coupler. 

3.2  Low-Noise  Transverse-Field  Amplifier 

r  One  application  of  coupled  helices  which  has  been  suggested  from  the 
very  beginning  is  for  a  transverse  field  amplifier  with  low  noise  factor. 
In  such  an  amplifier  the  EF  structure  is  required  to  produce  a  field  which 
is  purely  transverse  at  the  position  of  the  beam.  For  the  transverse  mode 
there  is  always  such  a  cylindrical  surface  where  the  longitudinal  field  is 
zero  and  this  can  be  obtained  from  the  field  equation  of  Appendix  II. 
In  Fig.  3.1  we  have  plotted  the  value  of  the  radius  f  at  which  the  longi- 
tudinal field  is  zero  for  various  parameters.  The  significant  feature  of 
this  plot  is  that  the  radius  which  specifies  zero  longitudinal  field  is  not 
constant  with  frequency.  At  frequencies  away  from  the  design  frequency 
the  electron  beam  will  be  in  a  position  where  interaction  with  longitudinal 
components  might  become  important  and  thus  shotnoise  power  will  be 
introduced  into  the  circuit.  Thus  the  bandwidth  of  the  amplifier  over 
which  it  has  a  good  noise  factor  would  tend  to  be  limited.  However,  this 
effect  can  be  reduced  by  using  the  smallest  practicable  value  of  b/a. 

Section  2.12  indicates  that  the  impedance  of  the  transverse  mode  is 
very  high,  and  thus  this  structure  should  be  well  suited  for  transverse 
field  amplifiers. 

3.3  Dispersive  Traveling-Wave  Tube 

Large  bandwidth  is  not  always  essential  in  microwave  amplifiers.  In 
particular,  the  enormous  bandwidth  over  which  the  traveling-wave  tube 
is  potentially  capable  of  amplifying  has  so  far  found  little  application, 
while  relatively  narrow  bandwidths  (although  quite  wide  by  previous 
standards)  are  of  immediate  interest.  Such  a  relatively  narrow  band,  if 
it  is  an  inherent  electronic  property  of  the  tube,  makes  matching  the 
tube  to  the  external  circuits  easier.  It  may  permit,  for  instance,  the  use 
of  non-reciprocal  attenuation  by  means  of  ferrites  in  the  ferromagnetic 
resonance  region.  It  obviates  filters  designed  to  deliberately  reduce  the 
band  in  certain  applications.  Last,  but  not  least,  it  offers  the  possibility 
of  trading  bandwidth  for  gain  and  efficiency. 

A  very  simple  method  of  making  a  traveling-wave  tube  narrow-band 


160  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


0.5 


1.W 

1.8 

^ 

^ 

1.7 

COT  \p. 

_^ 

^ 

^ 

<^ 

T^  =  -0. 

COT  ^, 

82^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

l=- 

1.6 

^ 

^ 

^ 

-0.90 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

* 

1.5 

— - 



-0.9 

8 

' 

^-'     ' 

^ 

^ 

1.4 

-^ 

COT  ^i'2 

^-^  =  -0.82 

COT  UJ^                 , 

-0.9j 

, 





^- 

1.3 



. 

— 

"ZH 

'          1 
-0.98 

1.2 

_ 

"71 

|  =  ,.25 

— 

^= 

CO' 

r  1//. 

— T-" 

H 

COT  5^, 

=  -0.82  - 
-0.90  ■ 

'                  / 
^ 

1 
/ 

/ 

i.n 

-0 

.98 

~ 

1.0 


1.5 


2.0 


2.5  3.0 

/3o  a  COT  j^. 


3.5 


4.0 


4.5 


5.0 


Fig.  3.1  —  The  radius  r  at  which  the  longitudinal  field  is  zero  for  transversely 
excited  coupled  coaxial  helices. 


is  by  using  a  dispersive  circuit,  (i.e.  one  in  which  the  phase  velocity  varies 
significantly  with  frequency).  Thus,  we  obtain  an  amplifier  that  can  be 
limed  by  varying  the  beam  voltage;  being  dispersive  we  should  also 
expect  a  low  group  velocity  and  therefore  higher  circuit  impedance. 

Calculations  of  the  phase  velocities  of  the  normal  modes  of  coupled 
concentric  helices  presented  in  the  appendix  show  that  the  fast,  longitu- 
dinal or  (+  +  )  mode  is  highly  dispersive.  Given  the  geometry  of  two 
such  coupled  helices  and  the  relevant  data  on  an  electron  beam,  namely 
current,  voltage  and  beam  radius,  it  is  possible  to  arrive  at  an  estimate 
of  the  dependence  of  gain  on  frecjuency. 

Experiments  with  such  a  tube  showed  a  Ijandwidth  3.8  times  larger 
than  the  simple  estimate  would  show.  This  we  ascribe  to  the  presence 


COUPLED   HELICES  161 

of  the  dielectric  between  the  helices  in  the  actual  tube,  and  to  the  neglect 
of  power  propagated  in  the  form  of  spatial  harmonics. 

Nevertheless,  the  tube  operated  satisfactorily  with  distributed  non- 
reciprocal  ferrite  attenuation  along  the  whole  helix  and  gave,  at  the 
center  frequency  of  4,500  mc/s  more  than  40  db  stable  gain. 

The  gain  fell  to  zero  at  3,950  mc/s  at  one  end  of  the  band  and  at 
4,980  mc/s  at  the  other.  The  forward  loss  was  12  db.  The  backward 
loss  was  of  the  order  of  50  db  at  the  maximum  gain  frequency. 

3.4  Devices  Using  Both  Modes 

In  this  section  we  shall  discuss  applications  of  the  coupled-helix  princi- 
ple which  depend  for  their  function  on  the  simultaneous  presence  of  both 
the  transverse  and  the  longitudinal  modes.  When  present  in  substantially 
equal  magnitude  a  spatial  beat-phenomenon  takes  place,  that  is,  RF 
power  transfers  back  and  forth  between  inner  and  outer  helix. 

Thus,  there  are  points,  periodic  with  distance  along  each  helix,  where 
there  is  substantially  no  current  or  voltage;  at  these  points  a  helix  can  be 
terminated,  cut-off,  or  connected  to  external  circuits  without  detriment. 

The  main  object,  then,  of  all  devices  discussed  in  this  section  is  power 
transfer  from  one  helix  to  the  other;  and,  as  will  be  seen,  this  can  be  ac- 
complished in  a  remarkably  efficient,  elegant,  and  broad-band  manner. 

3.4.1  Coupled-Helix  Transducer 

It  is,  by  now,  a  well  known  fact  that  a  good  match  can  be  obtained 
between  a  coaxial  line  and  a  helix  of  proportions  such  as  used  in  TWT's.  A 
wire  helix  in  free  space  has  an  effective  impedance  of  the  order  of  100 
ohms.  A  conducting  shield  near  the  helix,  however,  tends  to  reduce  the 
helix  impedance,  and  a  value  of  70  or  even  50  ohms  is  easily  attained. 
Pro\'ided  that  the  transition  region  between  the  coaxial  line  and  the 
helix  does  not  present  too  abrupt  a  change  in  geometry  or  impedance, 
relatively  good  transitions,  operable  over  bandwidths  of  several  octaves, 
can  l)e  made,  and  are  used  in  practice  to  feed  into  and  out  of  tubes  em- 
ploying helices  such  as  TWT's  and  backward-wave  oscillators. 

One  particularly  awkward  point  remains,  namely,  the  necessity  to  lead 
the  coaxial  line  through  the  tube  envelope.  This  is  a  complication  in 
manufacture  and  reciuires  careful  positioning  and  dimensioning  of  the 
helix  and  other  tube  parts. 

Coupled  helices  offer  an  opportunity  to  overcome  this  difficulty  in  the 
form  of  the  so-called  coupled-helix  transducer,  a  sketch  of  which  is 
shown  in  Fig.  3.2.  As  has  been  shown  in  Section  2.3,  with  helices  having 


162 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


the  same  velocity  an  overlap  of  one  half  of  a  beat  wavelength  will  result 
in  a  100  per  cent  power  transfer  from  one  helix  to  the  other.  A  signal  in- 
troduced into  the  outer  helix  at  point  A  by  means  of  the  coaxial  line  will 
be  all  on  the  inner  helix  at  point  B,  nothing  remaining  on  the  outer  helix. 
At  that  point  the  outer  helix  can  be  discontinued,  or  cut  off;  since  there 
is  no  power  there,  the  seemingly  violent  discontinuity  represented  by  the 
'open"  end  of  the  helix  will  cause  no  reflection  of  power.  In  practice,  un- 
fortunately, there  are  always  imperfections  to  consider,  and  there  will 
often  be  some  power  left  at  the  end  of  the  coupler  helix.  Thus,  it  is  de- 
sirable to  terminate  the  outer  helix  at  this  point  non-reflectively,  as,  for 
instance,  by  a  resistive  element  of  the  right  value,  or  by  connecting  to  it 
another  matched  coaxial  line  which  in  turn  is  then  non-reflectively  ter- 
minated. 

It  will  be  seen,  therefore,  that  the  coupled-helix  transducer  can,  in 
principle,  be  made  into  an  efficient  device  for  coupling  RF  energy  from 
a  coaxial  line  to  a  helix  contained  in  a  dielectric  envelope  such  as  a  glass 
tube.  The  inner  helix  will  be  energized  predominantly  in  one  direction, 
namely,  the  one  away  from  the  input  connection.  Conversely,  energy 
traveling  initially  in  the  inner  helix  will  be  transferred  to  the  outer,  and 
made  available  as  output  in  the  respective  coaxial  line.  Such  a  coupled- 
helix  transducer  can  be  moved  along  the  tube,  if  required.  As  long  as  the 
outer  helix  completely  overlaps  the  inner,  operation  as  described  above 
should  be  assured.  By  this  means  a  new  flexibility  in  design,  operation 
and  adjustment  of  traveling-wave  tubes  is  obtained  which  could  not  be 
achieved  by  any  other  known  form  of  traveling-wave  tube  transducer. 
Naturally,  the  applications  of  the  coupled-helix  transducer  are  not 
restricted  to  TWT's  only,  nor  to  100  per  cent  power  transfer.  To  obtain 


Fig.  3.2  —  A  simple  coupled  helix  transducer. 


COUPLED    HELICES  1G3 

power  transfer  of  proportions  other  than  100  per  cent  two  possibilities 
are  open:  either  one  can  reduce  the  length  of  the  synchronous  coupling 
helix  appropriately,  or  one  can  deliberately  make  the  helices  non-syn- 
chronous. In  the  latter  case,  a  considerable  measure  of  broad-banding 
can  be  obtained  by  making  the  length  of  overlap  again  equal  to  one  half 
of  a  beat-wavelength,  while  the  fraction  of  power  transferred  is  deter- 
mined by  the  difference  of  the  helix  velocities  according  to  2.4.7.  An 
application  of  the  principle  of  the  coupled-helix  transducer  to  a  variable 
delay  line  has  been  described  by  L.  Stark  in  an  unpublished  memo- 
randum. 

Turning  again  to  the  complete  power  transfer  case,  we  may  ask: 
How  broad  is  such  a  coupler? 

In  Section  2.7  we  have  discussed  how  the  radial  falling-off  of  the  RF 
energy  near  a  helix  can  be  used  to  broad-band  coupled-helix  devices 
which  depend  on  relative  constancy  of  beat-wavelength  as  frequency 
is  varied.  On  the  assumption  that  there  exists  a  perfect  broad-band  match 
between  a  coaxial  line  and  a  helix,  one  can  calculate  the  performance  of 
a  coupled-helix  transducer  of  the  type  shown  in  Fig.  3.2. 

Let  us  define  a  center  frequency  co,  at  which  the  outer  helix  is  exactly 
one  half  beat-wavelength,  \b ,  long.  If  oj  is  the  frequency  of  minimum 
beat  wavelength  then  at  frequencies  coi  and  co2 ,  larger  and  smaller, 
respectively,  than  co,  the  outer  helix  will  be  a  fraction  5  shorter  than 
}i\b ,  (Section  2.7).  Let  a  voltage  amplitude,  Vo ,  exist  at  the  point  where 
the  outer  helix  is  joined  to  the  coaxial  line.  Then  the  magnitude  of  the 
voltage  at  the  other  end  of  the  outer  helix  will  be  |  F2  •  sin  (x5/2)  |  which 
means  that  the  power  has  not  been  completely  transferred  to  the  inner 
helix.  Let  us  assume  complete  reflection  at  this  end  of  the  outer  helix. 
Then  all  but  a  fraction  of  the  reflected  power  will  be  transferred  to  the 
inner  helix  in  a  reverse  direction.  Thus,  we  have  a  first  estimate  for  the 
"directivity"  defined  as  the  ratio  of  forward  to  backward  power  (in  db) 
introduced  into  the  inner  helix: 


D  = 


10  log  sin" 


(3.4.1.1) 


We  have  assumed  a  perfect  match  between  coaxial  line  and  outer  helix; 
thus  the  power  reflected  back  into  the  coaxial  line  is  proportional  to 
sin^(x5/2).  Thus  the  reflectivity  defined  as  the  ratio  of  reflected  to 
incident  power  is  given  in  db  by 


i^  =  10  log  sin'    ^  (3.4.1.2) 


164  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

For  the  sake  of  definiteness,  let  us  choose  actual  figures:  let  /3a  =  2.0. 
and  hi  a  =  1.5.  And  let  us,  arbitrarily,  demand  that  R  always  be  less  than 
-20  db. 

This  gives  sin  (7r5/2)  <  0.316  and  7r5/2  <  18.42°  or  0.294  radians, 
8  <  0.205.  With  the  optimum  value  of  (Sea  =  1.47,  this  gives  the  mini- 
mum permissible  value  of  I3ca  of  1.47/(1  +  0.205)  =  1.22.  From  the 
graph  on  Fig.  2.2  this  corresponds  to  values  of  jSa  of  1.00  and  3.50. 
Therefore,  the  reflected  power  is  down  20  db  over  a  frequency  range  of 
aj2/aji  =  3,5  to  one.  Over  the  same  range,  the  directivity  is  better  than 
10  to  one.  Suppose  a  directivity  of  better  than  20  db  were  required. 
This  requires  sin  (7r5/2)  =  0.10,  8  =  0.0638  and  is  obtained  over  a  fre- 
quency range  of  approximately  two  to  one.  Over  the  same  range,  the 
reflected  power  would  be  down  by  40  db. 

In  the  above  example  the  full  bandwidth  possibilities  have  not  been 
used  since  the  coupler  has  been  assumed  to  have  optimum  length  when 
jSctt  is  maximum.  If  the  coupler  is  made  longer  so  that  when  I3ca  is  maxi- 
mum it  is  electrically  short  of  optimum  to  the  extent  permissible  by 
the  quality  requirements,  then  the  minimum  allowable  (S^a  becomes  even 
smaller.  Thus,  for  h/a  =1.5  and  directivity  20  db  or  greater  the  rea- 
lizable bandwidth  is  nearly  three  to  one. 

When  the  coupling  helix  is  non-reflectively  terminated  at  both  ends, 
either  by  means  of  two  coaxial  lines  or  a  coaxial  line  at  one  end  and  a 
resistive  element  at  the  other,  the  directivity  is,  ideally,  infinite,  irrespec- 
tive of  frequency;  and,  similarly,  there  will  be  no  reflections.  The  power 
transfer  to  the  inner  helix  is  simply  proportional  to  cos  (t8/2).  Thus, 
under  the  conditions  chosen  for  the  example  given  above,  the  coupled- 
helix  transducer  can  approach  the  ideal  transducer  over  a  considerable 
range  of  frequencies. 

So  far,  we  have  inspected  the  performance  and  bandwith  of  the 
coupled-helix  transducer  from  the  most  optimistic  theoretical  point  of 
view.  Although  a  more  realistic  approach  does  not  change  the  essence 
of  our  conclusions,  it  does  modify  them.  For  instance,  we  have  neglected 
dispersion  on  the  helices.  Dispersion  tends  to  reduce  the  maximum  at- 
tainable bandwidth  as  can  be  seen  if  Fig.  2.4.2  rather  than  Fig.  2.2  is 
used  in  the  example  cited  above.  The  dielectric  that  exists  in  the  annular 
region  between  coupled  concentric  helices  in  most  practical  couplers 
may  also  affect  the  bandwidth. 

In  practice,  the  performance^  of  coupled-hc^lix  transducers  has  been 
short  of  the  ideal.  In  the  first  place,  the  match  from  a  coaxial  line  to  a 
helix  is  not  perfect.  Secondly,  a  not  inappreciable  fraction  of  the  RF 
power  on  a  real  wire  helix  is  propagated  in  the  form  of  spatial  harmonic 


COUPLED   HELICES 


165 


28 


26 


24 


22 


20 


18 


)6 

in 

_i 

LU 

m  (4 
u 


12 


10 


r\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

'   *  / 
'    *  / 
1     t  / 

[\ 

n 

[  1 

I 

1      1 

\j 

^ 

\ 

Wf 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

I      / 
I    / 
\  / 

\1^ 

U~ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

\ 

.' 
1 

A 

\J 

\- 

/  \ 

\ 

A 

/ 

Vi 

\ 
\ 

\ 

1 

1 

/ 
1 

p 

OUPLER   DIRECTIVITY 
ETURN   LOSS 

\ 

\ 

1 

J 

\ 

A 

V 

I 

/ 

l 

1.5 


2.5  3  4 

FREQUENCY   IN    KILOMEGACYCLES 


Fig.  3.3  — •  The  return  loss  and  directivity  of  an  experimental  100  per  cent 
coupled-helix  transducer. 

wave  components  which  have  variations  with  angle  around  the  helix- 
axis,  and  coupling  between  such  components  on  two  helices  wound  in 
opposite  directions  must  be  small.  Finally,  there  are  the  inevitable  me- 
chanical inaccuracies  and  misalignments. 

Fig.  3.3  shows  the  results  of  measurements  on  a  coupled-helix  trans- 
ducer with  no  termination  at  the  far  end. 


3.4.2  Coupled-Helix  Attenuator 

In  most  TWT's  the  need  arises  for  a  region  of  heavy  attenuation 
somewhere  between  input  and  output;  this  serves  to  isolate  input  and 
output,  and  prevents  oscillations  due  to  feedback  along  the  circuit.  Be- 
cause of  the  large  bandwidth  over  which  most  TWT's  are  inherently 
capable  of  amplifying,  substantial  attenuation,  say  at  least  60  db,  is 


166  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

required  over  a  bandwidth  of  maybe  2  octaves,  or  even  more.  Further- 
more, such  attenuation  should  present  a  very  good  match  to  a  wave  on 
the  heHx,  particularly  to  a  wave  traveling  backwards  from  the  output 
of  the  tube  since  such  a  wave  will  be  amplified  by  the  output  section  of 
the  tube. 

Another  requirement  is  that  the  attenuator  should  be  physically  as 
short  as  possible  so  as  not  to  increase  the  length  of  the  tube  unneces- 
sarily. 

Finally,  such  attenuation  might,  with  advantage,  be  made  movable 
during  the  operation  of  the  tube  in  order  to  obtain  optimum  performance, 
perhaps  in  respect  of  power  output,  or  linearity,  or  some  other  aspect. 

Coupled-helix  attenuators  promise  to  perform  these  functions  satis- 
factorily. 

A  length  of  outer  helix  (synchronous  with  the  inner  helix)  one  half  of  a 
beat  wavelength  long,  terminated  at  either  end  non-reflectively,  forms  a 
very  simple,  short,  and  elegant  solution  of  the  coupled-helix  attenuator 
problem.  A  notable  weakness  of  this  form  of  attenuator  is  its  relatively 
narrow  bandwidth.  Proceeding,  as  before,  on  the  assumption  that  the 
attenuator  is  a  fraction  8  larger  or  smaller  than  half  a  beat  wavelength 
at  frequencies  coi  and  W2  on  either  side  of  the  center  frequency  co,  we  find 
that  the  fraction  of  power  transferred  from  the  inner  helix  to  the  attenu- 
ator is  then  given  by  (1  —  sin"  (ir8/2)).  The  attenuation  is  thus  simply 

A  =  sin^  (I) 

For  helices  of  the  same  proportions  as  used  before  in  Section  3.4.1,  we 
find  that  this  will  give  an  attenuation  of  at  least  20  db  over  a  frequency 
band  of  two  to  one.  At  the  center  frequency,  coo ,  the  attenuation  is  in- 
finite; —  in  theory. 

Thus  to  get  higher  attenuation,  it  would  be  necessary  to  arrange  for  a 
sufficient  number  of  such  attenuators  in  tandem  along  the  TWT.  More- 
over, by  properly  staggering  their  lengths  within  certain  ranges  a  wdder 
attenuation  band  may  be  achieved.  The  success  of  such  a  scheme  largely 
depends  on  the  ability  to  terminate  the  helix  ends  non-reflectively.  Con- 
siderable work  has  been  done  in  this  direction,  but  complete  success  is 
not  yet  in  sight. 

Another  basically  different  scheme  for  a  coupled-helix  attenuator  rests 
on  the  use  of  distributed  attenuation  along  the  coupling  helix.  The  diffi- 
culty with  any  such  scheme  lies  in  the  fact  that  unequal  attenuation  in 
the  two  coupled  helices  reduces  the  coupling  between  them  and  the  moi'c 
they  differ  in  respect  to  attenuation,  the  less  the  coupling.  Naturally,  one 


COUPLED   HELICES  167 

would  wish  to  have  as  Httle  attenuation  as  practicable  associated  with 
the  inner  helix  (inside  the  TWT).  This  requires  the  attenuating  element 
to  be  associated  with  the  outer  helix.  Miller  has  shown  that  the  maxi- 
mum total  power  reduction  in  coupled  transmission  systems  is  obtained 
when 

ai  —  0:2 


where  ai  and  012  are  the  attenuation  constants  in  the  respective  systems, 
and  ^b  the  beat  phase  constant.  If  the  inner  helix  is  assumed  to  be  loss- 
less, the  attenuation  constant  of  the  outer  helix  has  to  be  effectively  equal 
to  the  beat  wave  phase  constant.  It  turns  out  that  60  db  of  attenuation 
requires  about  3  beat  wavelengths  (in  practice  10  to  20  helix  wave- 
lengths). The  total  length  of  a  typical  TWT  is  only  3  or  4  times  that, 
and  it  will  be  seen,  therefore,  that  this  scheme  may  not  be  practical  as 
the  only  means  of  providing  loss. 

Experiments  carried  out  Avith  outer  helices  of  various  resistivities  and 
thicknesses  by  K.  M.  Poole  (then  at  the  Clarendon  Laboratory,  Oxford, 
England)  tend  to  confirm  this  conclusion.  P.  D.  Lacy"  has  described  a 
coupled  helix  attenuator  which  uses  a  multifilar  helix  of  resistance 
material  together  with  a  resistive  sheath  between  the  helices. 

Experiments  were  performed  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  with  a 
TWT  using  a  resistive  sheath  (graphite  on  paper)  placed  between  the 
outer  helix  and  the  quartz  tube  enclosing  the  inner  helix.  The  attenua- 
tions were  found  to  be  somewhat  less  than  estimated  theoretically.  The 
attenuator  helix  was  movable  in  the  axial  direction  and  it  w^as  instructive 
to  observe  the  influence  of  attenuator  position  on  the  power  output  from 
the  tube,  particularly  at  the  highest  attainable  power  level.  As  one  might 
expect,  as  the  power  level  is  raised,  the  attenuator  has  to  be  moA-ed  nearer 
to  the  input  end  of  the  tube  in  order  to  obtain  maximum  gain  and  power 
output.  In  the  limit,  the  attenuator  helix  has  to  be  placed  right  close  to 
the  input  end,  a  position  which  does  not  coincide  with  that  for  maximum 
low-level  signal  gain.  Thus,  the  potential  usefulness  of  the  feature  of 
mobility  of  coupled-helix  elements  has  been  demonstrated. 

4.  CONCLUSION 

In  this  paper  we  have  made  an  attempt  to  develop  and  collect  together 
a  considerable  body  of  information,  partly  in  the  form  of  equations, 
partl}^  in  the  form  of  graphs,  which  should  be  of  some  help  to  workers 
in  the  field  of  microwave  tubes  and  devices.  Because  of  the  crudity  of  the 
assumptions,  precise  agreement  between  theory  and  experiment  has  not 


168  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

been  att-aiiu>(l  iiur  can  it  l)c  expected.  Nevertheless,  the  kind  of  physical 
phenomena  occurring  with  coupled  helices  are,  at  least,  qualitatively 
described  here  and  should  permit  one  to  develop  and  construct  various 
types  of  (lexices  with  fair  chance  of  success. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

As  a  final  note  the  authors  wish  to  express  their  appreciation  for  the 
patient  work  of  Mrs.  C.  A.  Lambert  in  computing  the  curves,  and  to 
G.  E.  Korb  for  taking  the  experimental  data. 

Appendix  i 
i.  solution  of  field  equations 

In  this  section  there  is  presented  the  field  equations  for  a  transmission 
system  consisting  of  two  helices  aligned  with  a  common  axis.  The  propa- 
gation properties  and  impedance  of  such  a  transmission  system  are  dis- 
cussed for  various  ratios  of  the  outer  helix  radius  to  the  inner  helix  radius. 
This  system  is  capable  of  propagating  two  modes  and  as  previously 
pointed  out  one  mode  is  characterized  by  a  longitudinal  field  midway 
between  the  two  helices  and  the  other  is  characterized  by  a  transverse 
field  midway  between  the  tw^o  helices. 

The  model  which  is  to  be  treated  and  shown  in  Fig.  2.3  consists  of  an 
inner  helix  of  radius  a  and  pitch  angle  \pi  which  is  coaxial  with  the  outer 
helix  of  radius  6  and  pitch  angle  \j/2 .  The  sheath  helix  model  will  be 
treated,  wherein  it  is  assumed  that  helices  consist  of  infinitely  thin  sheaths 
which  allow  for  ciuTent  flow-  only  in  the  direction  of  the  pitch  angle  \p. 

The  components  of  the  field  in  the  region  inside  the  inner  helix,  be- 
tween the  two  helices  and  outside  the  outer  helix  can  be  written  as 
follows  —  inside  the  inner  helix 

H,,  =  BrIoM  (1) 

E.,  =  B^hM  (2) 

H,,  =  j  -  BMyr)  (3) 

7 

Hr,  =  ^^  BMyr)  (4) 

7 

E,,  =   -j  "^  BMyr)  (5) 

7 

Er,  =  -^  BJ,(rr)  (()) 

7 


COUPLED   HELICES  169 

and  between  the  two  helices 

H,,  =  BMrr)  +  BJuirr)  '  (7) 

E.,  =  BJoiyr)  +  B^oiyr)  (8) 

H,,  =  ^~  [B,h(yr)  -  B^^(yr)]  (9) 

7 

Hr,  =  -^  [53/1(7/0  -  BJuiyr)]  (10) 

7 

E,,  =    -  J  ^  [B^hiyr)  -  BJuiyr)]  (11) 

7 

Er,  =  -^  [BMyr)  -  BJv,{yr)\  (12) 

7 

and  outside  the  outer  hehx 

H.^  =  B,Ko(yr)  (13) 

E,,  =  58/vo(7r)  (14) 

^.s  =   -J-  BsK,{yr)  (15) 

7 

Hr,  =  ^^  5,Ki(7r)  (16) 

7 

^,,  =  i  —  BJuiyr)  (17) 

7 

^r«  =    ^^  58Ki(7r)  (18) 

7 

With  the  sheath  helix  model  of  current  flow  only  in  the  direction  of  wires 
we  can  specify  the  usual  boundary  conditions  that  at  the  inner  and  outer 
helix  radius  the  tangential  electric  field  must  be  continuous  and  per- 
pendicular to  the  wires,  whereas  the  tangential  component  of  magnetic 
field  parallel  to  the  current  flow  must  be  continuous.  These  can  be  written 
as 

E,  sin  t/'  +  E^  cos  ^  =  0  (19) 

'  E, ,  E^  and  (H,  sin  \f/  -f  H^  cos  \p)  be  equal  on  either  side  of  the  helix. 
By  applying  these  conditions  to  the  two  helices  the  following  equations 
are  obtained  for  the  various  coefficients. 


170  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


First,  we  will  define  a  more  simple  set  of  parameters.  We  will  denote 

Io(ya)  by  /oi        and        h{yh)  by  /02 ,  etc. 

Further  let  us  use  the  notation  introduced  by  Humphrey,  Kite  and 
James"  in  his  treatment  of  coaxial  helices. 


Poi  ^  laiKoi  P02  =  ToiKa2  Rq  =  I01K02 

Pn  =  InKn  P12  =  InKu  Ri  =  /iii^i2 

and  define  a  common  factor  (C.F.)  by  the  equation 

r(/3oa  cot  hY  p   p  (/3oa  cot  ^pif  cot  i/'z  „  r, 

\_       (yay  {jay  cot  t^i 

+  Ro'  —  PoiP 


(20) 


.,] 


(21) 


With  all  of  this  we  can  now  write  for  the  coefficients  of  equations  1 
through  18: 


y   ju  j8oa  cot  \pi  1 02 

U  iQoa  cot  1^1  7oi/vi2  RiSoa  cot  i^i) 

y  M  ""to     C.F.  L 

^4  _    _  •       / £_  /3oa  cot  1^1  /pi/ii  r( 

B^~      -^  T   M        7^        C.F.  L"      (7a)^ 


5 
5 


(7a)'^ 
(/3oa  cot  1^2)^ 


cot  1A2   p 
cot  ;^i        J 

P12  —   jPo2 


■] 


B5 

B, 
Bt 


Ro 
C.F. 


Ro  — 


((Soa  cot  xl/iY  cot  1/' 


(7a^) 
(/3oa  cot  1^2) 


cot  l/' 


;«'] 


(7a)^ 


12  —  -P02 


B7  _    •    .  /£  i3oa  cot  lAi     1      /oi  r 
5;  ~  "^  y  M        7a        C.F.  K12  L 


Bs  _    (|8oa  cot  i/'i)"  cot  1/^2      /pi       "" 
B2  {yay        coT^i  C.F.Po 


P02R1  — 
P02R1  - 


cot  l/'2 
cot  i/'i 

cot  l// 
cot  \l/ 


2R0 
-  P12R0 


(22) 
(23) 
(24) 
(25) 
(26) 
(27) 
(28) 


The  last  equation  necessary  for  the  solution  of  our  field  problem  is  the 
transcendental  equation  for  the  propagation  constant,  7,  which  can  be 


COUPLED    HELICES 


171 


written 


Ro  — 


(i8o  a  cot  \J/iY  cot  ^2  „ 
(yaY        cot  4/1 


[ 


=        P02   - 


(jSo  a  cot  \p2)    D 

? Vi -^   12 


Poi  - 


(/3oa  cot  ^0" 
(yay 


_     (29) 


11 


The  solutions  of  this  equation  are  plotted  in  Fig.  4.1. 

There  it  is  seen  that  there  are  two  values  of  7,  one,  yt  ,  denoting  the 
slow  mode  with  transverse  fields  between  helices  and  the  other,  yt , 
denoting  the  fast  mode  with  longitudinal  fields  midway  between  the  two 
helices. 


5.0 


4.S 


4.0 


3.5 


3.0 


ra 


2.6 


2.0 


1.5 


1.0 


0.5 


4  =  1.25 

// 

/ 

COT  5^2 
COT  ^1 

0.82 

0.90 

0.98 

^ 

#■ 

/t 

// 

A 

na 

/ 

f 

A 

y 

f 

/ 

r 

/ 

I 

/ 

if 

< 

A 

/ 

-<^^ 

^ 

•y 

L 

-- 

•=**^ 

0.5  1.0  1.6 


2.0  2.5  3.0 

/3o  a  COT  yj 


3.5  4.0  4.5  5.0 


Fig.  4.1.1 —-The  radial  propagation  constants  associated  with  the  transverse 
and  longitudinal  modes  on  coupled  coaxial  sheath  helices  given  as  a  function  of 
|3oa  cot  ^i-i  for  several  values  of  hja  =  1.25. 


172  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


These  equations  can  now  be  used  to  compute  the  power  flow  as  defined 
by 

P  =  }4  Re  j  E  XH' 
which  can  be  written  in  the  form 


dA 


(30) 


r^;^(o)T 
L  ^'p  J 


fo  ©    ^^-'  ''' 


(31) 


where 


[F{ya,  yb)]     = 


(( 


W  + 


(i8oa  cot  i/' 
{yar 


^  /n^) 


(In'  -  /oi/2i)(C.F.)- 


-      A'02'  + 


240  (C.F.)' 

(i8oa  cot  1/^1)' 
(t«)'^ 


/or/n-  r 


(80a  cot  ;^iY 


' 


/Vl2"         i^O    - 


ya 

((Soft  cot  i^i)'  cot  \p2 
(ya)''        cot  i/'i 


Rx 


- )  (/02/22  —  /12')  4"  (/ii   —  /01/21) 


,    /p         (/3oa  cot  1A1)-  cot  \i/2  p  Wp  (^0^  ^'0^'  "^2)''  p 


(ya)'^        cot  i/'i 


(7a)^ 


(  - )  i'lInKu  +  /02/V22  +  /22X02)  —  (2/iiKii  +  /01K21  +  /21/voi) 

ot  ^2)'^  p  T 


(32) 


2     ,     (^ofl  cot  l/'i)     J    ■> 
•'01    i-  7 r;; ^11 


(l3oa  cot 


-  I    (K02K22  —  K12 )  —  (K01K21  —  Kn) 


.a, 


+ 


(/3oa  cot  i^i)"  A^ 


■     2    ,    (/Soa  cot  i/'2)"  J  2  J.  2 


(7a)'^ 


cot  1/^2   p     J. 
I    02itl    —    -— r-    i    12A0 

cot  1^1 


[/Vo2A'22    —    /V12"] 


In  (32)  we  find  the  power  in  the  transverse  mode  by  using  values  of 


COUPLED   HELICES 


173 


5.0 


0.5 


2.0  2.5  3.0 

/3o  a  COT  y/ 


5.0 


Fig.  4.1.2  —  The  radial  propagation  constants  associated  with  the  transverse 
and  longitudinal  modes  on  coupled  coaxial  sheath  helices  given  as  a  function  of 
^ofl  cot  \}/i  when  h/a  —  1.50. 

yt  obtained  from  (29)  and  similarly  the  power  in  the  longittidinal  mode  is 
found  by  using  values  of  yi . 


II.   FINDING  r 

When  coaxial  helices  are  used  in  a  transverse  field  amplifier,  only  the 
transverse  field  mode  is  of  interest  and  it  is  important  that  the  helix 
parameters  be  adjusted  such  that  there  is  no  longitudinal  field  at  some 
radius,  f,  where  the  cylindrical  electron  beam  will  be  located.  This  condi- 
tion can  be  expressed  by  equating  Ez  to  zero  at  r  =  f  and  from  (8) 


BMyr)  +  B^,{yf)  =  0 


(33) 


174  THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

which  can  be  written  with  (25)  and  (26)  as 
(jSott  cot  ipiY  cot  \f/2 


K(i2    Ri 


[ 


02      ilO 


(7a)-         cot  \{/i 
=  /oi 


Ri 


loM 


(/3oa  cot  \l/2)- 

■I  02  —  7 rr, rn 


(34) 


Koiyf) 


This  equation  together  with  (29)  enables  one  to  evaluate  f/a  versus  j8oa 
cot  \l/i  for  various  ratios  of  b/a  and  cot  i^2/cot  xpi  .  The  results  of  these 
calculations  are  shown  in  Fig.  3.1. 


5.0 


4.5 


4.0 


3.5 


3.0 


7a 


2.5 


2,0 


0.5 


Fig.  4.1. .3  —  The  radial  propagation  constants  associated  with  the  transverse 
and  longitudinal  modes  on  coupled  coaxial  sheath  helices  given  as  a  finiclion  of 
0oa  cot  \{/i  when  b/a  =  1.75. 


i 


COUPLED   HELICES 


175 


5.0 


7a 


2.0  2.5  3.0 

/Oo  <3  COT  ^, 


3.5 


4.0 


4.5 


5.0 


Fig.  4.1.4  —  The  radial  propagation  constants  associated  with  the  transverse 
and  longitudinal  modes  on  coupled  coaxial  sheath  helices  given  as  a  function  of 
/3oa  cot  yp\  when  6/a  =  2.0. 


III.    COMPLETE   POWER  TRANSFER 

For  coupled  heli.x  applications  we  require  the  coupled  helix  parame- 
ters to  be  adjusted  so  that  RF  power  fed  into  one  helix  alone  will  set  up 
the  transverse  and  longitudinal  modes  equal  in  amplitude.  For  this 
condition  the  power  from  the  outer  helix  will  transfer  completely  to  the 
inner  helix.  The  total  current  density  can  be  written  as  the  sum  of  the 
current  in  the  longitudinal  mode  and  the  transverse  mode.  Thus  for  the 
inner  helix  we  have 


-i&li 


J  a   =    Jate-''''  +    Jate 


.-J^<2 


(35) 


17G  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


7?,     2.5 


Fig.  4.1.5  —  The  radial  propagation  constants  associated  with  the  transverse 
and  longitudinal  modes  on  coupled  coa.xial  sheath  helices  given  as  a  function  of 

/3oa  cot  i/-!  when  hi  a  =  3.0. 


and  for  the  outer  helix 
For  complete  power  transfer  we  ask  that 

•J  hi    —    J  hi 

when  Jo  is  zero  at  the  input  {z  =  0) 
or 

Jbt    _  Jbt 

J  at  J  at 


\ 


(36)    \ 


(37) 


COUPLED   HELICES  177 

Now  J  at  is  equal  to  the  discontinuity  in  the  tangential  component  of 
magnetic  field  which  can  be  written  at  r  =  a 

J  at  =  {H,z  cos  ^i  —  //^5  sin  \pi)  —  (H,i  cos  i/'i  -  H^o  sin  \f/i) 

\^'hich  can  be  written  as 

Ja(  =  -  (H,i  -  H,3)a((cot  i/'i  +  tau  xj/i)  slu  \Pi  (38) 

and  similarily  at  r  =  h 

Jb(  =  —  (H^7  —  H,s)b({cot  \p2  +  tan  4^2)  sin  i/'2  (39) 

Equations  (38)  and  (39)  can  be  combined  with  (37)  to  give  as  the  condi- 
tion for  complete  power  transfer 

At  =  -At  (40) 

where 

^  =  V (yay  /  ni) 

(T    J^    _i-  r   V   \(  T?         (/3oa  cot  <Ai)'^  cot  1^2  „  \ 
\  {yo,y      cot  i/'i     / 

In  (40)  At  is  obtained  by  substituting  jt  into  (41)  and  At  is  obtained  by 
substituting  7  <  into  (41). 

The  value  of  cot  i/'o/cot  i/'i  necessary  to  satisfy  (40)  is  plotted  in  Fig. 
2.8. 

In  addition  to  cot  i/'o/cot  i/'i  it  is  necessary  to  determine  the  interference 
wavelength  on  the  helices  and  this  can  be  readily  evaluated  by  consider- 
ing (36)  which  can  now  be  written 

or 

/,  =  /,,.-«^'+^''-''^>  cos  ^ilJZ^  ,  (48) 

and 

J,  =  J.ce-'''^'^'^''"'  cos  M/3i^  (49) 

where  we  have  defined 

iSfcO  =  {yta  —  jta)  (50) 

This  value  of  /S^  is  plotted  versus  /3oa  cot  i/'i  in  Fig.  2.4. 


178  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1.  J.  R.  Pierce,  Traveling  Wave  Tubes,  p.  44,  Van  Nostrand,  1950. 

2.  R.  Kompfner,  Experiments  on  Coupled  Helices,  A.  E.  R.  E.  Report  No. 

G/M98,  Sept.,  1951. 

3.  R.  Kompfner,  Coupled  Helices,  paper  presented  at  I.  R.  E.  Electron  Tube 

Conference,  1953,  Stanford,  Cal. 

4.  G.  Wade  and  N.  Rynn,  Coupled  Helices  for  Use  in  Traveling-Wave  Tubes, 

I.R.E.  Trans,  on  Electron  Devices,  Vol.  ED-2,  p.  15,  July,  1955. 

5.  S.  E.  Miller,  Coupled  Wave  Theory  and  Waveguide  Applications,  B.S.T.J., 

33,  pp.  677-693,  1954. 

6.  M.  Chodorow  and  E.  L.  Chu,  The  Propagation  Properties  of  Cross-Wound 

Twin  Helices  Suitable  for  Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  paper  presented  at  the 
Electron  Tube  Res.  Conf.,  Stanford  Univ.,  June,  1953. 

7.  G.  M.  Branch,  A  New  Slow  Wave  Structure  for  Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  paper 

presented  at  the  Electron  Tube  Res.  Conf.,  Stanford  Univ.,  June,  1953. 
G.  M.  Branch,  E.xperimental  Observation  of  the  Properties  of  Double  Helix 
Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  paper  presented  at  the  Electron  Tube  Res.  Conf., 
Univ.  of  Maine,  June,  1954. 

8.  J.  S.  Cook,  Tapered  Velocity  Couplers,  B.S.T.J.  34,  p.  807,  1955. 

9.  A.  G.  Fox,  Wave  Coupling  by  Warped  Normal  Modes,  B.S.T.J.,  34,  p.  823, 

1955. 

10.  W.  H.  Louisell,  Analysis  of  the  Single  Tapered  Mode  Coupler,  B.S.T.J.,  34, 

p.  853. 

11.  B.  L.  Humphrey's,  L.  V.  Kite,  E.  G.  James,  The  Phase  Velocity  of  Waves  in  a 

Double  Helix,  Report  No.  9507,  Research  Lab.  of  G.E.C.,  England,  Sept., 
1948. 

12.  L.  Stark,  A  Helical-Line  Phase  Shifter  for  Ultra-High  Frequencies,  Technical 

Report  No.  59,  Lincoln  Laboratory,  M.LT.,  Feb.,  1954. 

13.  P.  D.  Lacy,  Helix  Coupled  Traveling-Wave  Tube,  Electronics,  27,  No.  11, 

Nov..  1954. 


Statistical  Techniques  for  Reducing  the 
Experiment  Time  in  Reliability  Studies 

By  MILTON  SOBEL 

(Manuscript  received  September  19,  1955) 

Given  two  or  more  processes,  the  units  from  which  fail  in  accordance  with 
an  exponential  or  delayed  exponential  law,  the  problem  is  to  select  the  partic- 
ular process  with  the  smallest  failure  rate.  It  is  assumed  that  there  is  a  com- 
mon guarantee  period  of  zero  or  positive  duration  during  which  no  failures 
occur.  This  guarantee  period  may  be  known  or  unknown.  It  is  desired  to 
accomplish  the  above  goal  in  as  short  a  time  as  possible  without  invalidating 
certain  predetermined  probability  specifications.  Three  statistical  techniques 
are  considered  for  reducing  the  average  experiment  time  needed  to  reach  a 
decision. 

1 .  One  technique  is  to  increase  the  initial  number  of  units  put  on  test. 
This  technique  will  substantially  shorten  the  average  experiment  time.  Its 
effect  on  the  probability  of  a  correct  selection  is  generally  negligible  and  in 
some  cases  there  is  no  effect. 

2.  Another  technique  is  to  replace  each  failure  immediately  by  a  new 
unit  from  the  same  process.  This  replacement  technique  adds  to  the  book- 
keeping of  the  test,  but  if  any  of  the  population  variances  is  large  (say  in 
comparison  with  the  guarantee  period)  then  this  technique  will  result  in  a 
substantial  saving  in  the  average  experiment  time. 

3.  A  third  technique  is  to  use  an  appropriate  sequential  procedure.  In 
many  problems  the  sequential  procedure  results  in  a  smaller  average  experi- 
ment time  than  the  best  non-sequential  procedure  regardless  of  the  true 
failure  rates.  The  amount  of  saving  depends  principally  on  the  ^'distance'" 
between  the  smallest  and  second  smallest  failure  rates. 

For  the  special  case  of  two  processes,  tables  are  given  to  show  the  proba- 
bility of  a  correct  selection  and  the  average  experiment  time  for  each  of  three 
types  of  procedures. 

Numerical  estimates  of  the  relative  efficiency  of  the  procedures  are  given 
by  computing  the  ratio  of  the  average  experiment  time  for  two  procedures  of 
different  type  with  the  same  initial  sample  size  and  satisfying  the  same 
probability  specification. 

179 


180  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

INTRODUCTION 

This  paper  is  concerned  with  a  study  of  the  advantages  and  disad- 
vantages of  three  statistical  techniques  for  reducing  the  average  dura- 
tion of  hfe  tests.  These  techniques  are: 

1.  Increasing  the  initial  number  of  units  on  test. 

2.  Using  a  replacement  technique. 

3.  Using  a  sequential  procedure. 

To  show  the  advantages  of  each  of  these  techniques,  we  shall  consider 
the  problem  of  deciding  which  of  two  processes  has  the  smaller  failure 
rate.  Three  different  types  of  procedures  for  making  this  decision  will 
be  considered.  They  are: 

Ri ,     A  nonsequential,  nonreplacement  type  of  procedure 
E,2 ,     A  nonsequential,  replacement  type  of  procedure 
Rs ,     A  sequential,  replacement  type  of  procedure 
Within  each  type  wq  will  consider  different  values  of  n,  the  initial 
number  of  units  on  test  for  each  process.  The  effect  of  replacement  is 
shown  by  comparing  the  average  experiment  time  for  procedures  of 
type  1  and  2  with  the  same  value  of  n  and  comparable  probabilities  of  a 
correct  selection.  The  effect  of  using  a  sequential  rule  is  shown  by  com- 
paring the  average  experiment  time  for  procedures  of  type  2  and  3  with 
the  same  value  of  n  and  comparable  probabilities  of  a  correct  selection. 

ASSUMPTIONS 

1.  It  is  assumed  that  failure  is  clearly  defined  and  that  failures  are 
recognized  without  any  chance  of  error. 

2.  The  lifetime  of  individual  units  from  either  population  is  assumed 
to  follow  an  exponential  density  of  the  form 

f{x;  e,g)  =\  e-^^-")/"        iov  x  -^  g 

f(x;  e,g)  =  0  iorx<g 

where  the  location  parameter  g  ^  0  represents  the  common  guarantee 
period  and  the  scale  parameter  6  >  0  represents  the  unknown  parameter 
which  distinguishes  the  two  different  processes.  Let  Ox  ^  do  denote  the 
ordered  values  of  the  unknown  parameter  6  for  the  two  processes;  then 
the  ordered  failure  rates  are  given  by 

Xi  =    1/(01  +  {/)    ^  Xo  =    1/(02  -f  g)  (2) 

3.  It  is  not  known  which  process  has  the  parameter  di  and  which  has 
the  parameter  dt . 


REDUCING   TIME    IN   RELIABILITY   STUDIES  181 

4.  The  parameter  g  is  assumed  to  be  the  same  for  both  processes.  It 
may  be  known  or  unknown. 

5.  The  initial  number  n  of  units  put  on  test  is  the  same  for  both  pro- 
cesses. 

6.  All  units  have  independent  lifetimes,  i.e.,  the  test  environment  is 
not  such  that  the  failure  of  one  unit  results  in  the  failure  of  other  units 
on  test. 

7.  Replacements  used  in  the  test  are  assumed  to  come  from  the  same 
population  as  the  units  they  replace.  If  the  replacement  units  have  to 
sit  on  a  shelf  before  being  used  then  it  is  assumed  that  the  replacements 
are  not  affected  by  shelf-aging. 

CONCLUSIONS 

1.  Increasing  the  initial  sample  size  n  has  at  most  a  negligible  effect 
on  the  probability  of  a  correct  selection.  It  has  a  substantial  effect  on  the 
average  experiment  time  for  all  three  types  of  procedures.  If  the  value  of 
n  is  doubled,  then  the  average  time  is  reduced  to  a  value  less  than  or 
equal  to  half  of  its  original  value. 

2.  The  technique  of  replacement  always  reduces  the  average  experi- 
ment time.  This  reduction  is  substantial  when  ^  =  0  or  when  the  popu- 
lation variance  of  either  process  is  large  compared  to  the  value  of  g. 
This  decrease  in  average  experiment  time  must  always  be  weighed  against 
the  disadvantage  of  an  increase  in  bookkeeping  and  the  necessity  of 
having  the  replacement  units  available  for  use. 

3.  The  sequential  procedure  enables  the  experimenter  to  make  rational 
decisions  as  the  evidence  builds  up  without  waiting  for  a  predetermined 
number  of  failures.  It  has  a  shorter  average  experiment  time  than  non- 
sequential procedures  satisfying  the  same  specification.  This  reduction 
brought  about  by  the  sequential  procedure  increases  as  the  ratio  a  of 
the  two  failure  rates  increases.  In  addition  the  sequential  procedure 
always  terminates  with  a  decision  that  is  clfearly  convincing  on  the  basis 
of  the  observed  results,  i.e.,  the  a  posteriori  probability  of  a  correct 
selection  is  always  large  at  the  termination  of  the  experiment. 

SPECIFICATION    OF   THE   TEST 

Each  of  the  three  types  of  procedures  is  set  up  so  as  to  satisfy  the 
same  specification  described  below.  Let  a  denote  the  true  value  of  the 
ratio  61/62  which  by  definition  must  be  greater  than,  or  equal  to,  one. 
It  turns  out  that  in  each  type  of  procedure  the  probability  of  a  correct 
selection  depends  on  6i  and  62  only  through  their  ratio  a. 


182  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1950 

1.  The  experimenter  is  asked  to  specify  the  smallest  value  of  a  (say 
it  is  a*  >  I)  that  is  worth  detecting.  Then  the  interval  (1,  a*)  represents 
a  zone  of  indifference  such  that  if  the  true  ratio  a  lies  therein  then  we 
would  still  like  to  make  a  correct  selection,  but  the  loss  due  to  a  wrong 
selection  in  this  case  is  negligible. 

2.  The  experimenter  is  also  asked  to  specify  the  minimum  value  P*  > 
\'2  that  he  desires  for  the  probability  of  a  correct  selection  whenever 
a  ^  a*.  In  each  type  of  procedure  the  rules  are  set  up  so  that  the  proba- 
bility of  a  correct  selection  for  a  =  a*  is  as  close  to  P*  as  possible  without 
being  less  than  P*. 

The  two  constants  a*  >  1  and  \2  <  P*  <  1  are  the  only  quantities 
specified  by  the  experimenter.  Together  they  make  up  the  specification 
of  the  test  procedure. 

EFFICIENCY 

If  two  procedures  of  different  type  have  the  same  value  of  n  and  satisfy 
the  same  specification  then  we  shall  regard  them  as  comparable  and 
their  relative  efficiency  will  be  measured  by  the  ratio  of  their  average 
experiment  times.  This  ratio  is  a  function  of  the  true  a  but  we  shall 
consider  it  only  for  selected  values  of  a,  namely,  a  =  1,  a  =  a*  and 
a  =  CO . 

PROCEDURES  OF  TYPE  Ri  — •  NONSEQUENTIAL,  NONREPLACEMENT 

"The  same  number  n  of  units  are  put  on  test  for  each  of  the  two  pro- 
cesses. Experimentation  is  continued  until  either  one  of  the  two  samples 
produces  a  predetermined  number  r  (r  ^  n)  of  failures.  Experimenta- 
tion is  then  stopped  and  the  process  with  fewer  than  r  failures  is  chosen 
to  be  the  better  one." 


Table    I  —  Probability    of    a    Correct    Selection  —  Procedure 

Type  Ri 
(a  =  2,  any  g  '^  0,  to  be  used  to  obtain  r  for  a*  =  2) 


n 

r  =  1 

r  =  2 

r  =  3 

r  =  i 

1 

0.667 





. — . 

2 

0.667 

0.733 

— 

— 

3 

0.667 

0.738 

0.774 

— 

4 

0.667 

0.739 

0.784 

0.802 

10 

0.667 

0.741 

0.78!) 

0.825 

20 

0.667 

0.741 

0 .  790 

0.826 

00 

0.667 

0.741 

0.790 

0.827 

Note:  The  value  for  ?•  =  0  is  obviously  0.500  for  any  n. 


REDUCING   TIME   IN    RELIABILITY   STUDIES  183 

We  shall  assume  that  the  number  n  of  units  put  on  test  is  determined 
by  non -statistical  considerations  such  as  the  availability  of  units,  the 
availability  of  sockets,  etc.  Then  the  only  unspecified  number  in  the 
above  procedure  is  the  integer  r.  This  can  be  determined  from  a  table 
of  probabilities  of  a  correct  selection  to  satisfy  any  given  specification 
(a*,  P*).  If,  for  example,  a*  =  2  then  we  can  enter  Table  I.  If  n  is 
given  to  be  4  and  we  wish  to  meet  the  specification  a*  =  2,  P*  =  0.800 
then  we  would  enter  Table  I  with  n  —  4  and  select  r  =  4,  it  being  the 
smallest  value  for  which  P  ^  P*. 

The  table  above  shows  that  for  the  given  specification  we  would  also 
have  selected  r  =  4  for  any  value  of  n.  In  fact,  we  note  that  the  proba- 
bility of  a  correct  selection  depends  only  slightly  on  n.  The  given  value 
of  n  and  the  selected  value  of  r  then  determine  a  particular  procedure 
of  type  Ri ,  say,  Ri(n,  r). 

The  average  experiment  time  for  each  of  several  procedures  R\{n,  r) 
is  given  in  Table  II  for  the  three  critical  values  of  the  true  ratio  a, 
namely,  a  =  \,  a  =  a*  and  a  =  oo .  Each  of  the  entries  has  to  be  multi- 
plied by  6-1 ,  the  smaller  of  the  two  d  values,  and  added  to  the  common 
guarantee  period  g.  For  n  =  oo  the  entry  should  be  zero  (-\-g)  but  it 
was  found  convenient  to  put  in  place  of  zero  the  leading  term  in  the 
asymptotic  expansion  of  the  expectation  in  powers  of  I/71.  Hence  the 
entry  for  n  =   00  can  be  used  for  any  large  n,  say,  n  ^  25  when  r  ^  4. 

We  note  in  Table  II  the  undesirable  feature  that  for  each  procedure 
the  average  experiment  time  increases  with  a  for  fixed  62  .  For  the  se- 
quential procedure  we  shall  see  later  that  the  average  experiment  time 
is  greater  at  a  =  a*  than  at  either  a  =  1  or  a  =  00 .  This  is  intuitively 
more  desirable  since  it  means  that  the  procedure  spends  more  time  when 
the  choice  is  more  difficult  to  make  and  less  time  when  we  are  indifferent 
or  when  the  choice  is  easy  to  make. 

PROCEDURES  OF  TYPE  R2  —  NONSEQUENTIAL,  REPLACEMENT 

"Such  procedures  are  carried  out  exactly  as  for  procedures  oiRi  except 
that  failures  are  immediately  replaced  by  new  units  from  the  same 
population." 

To  determine  the  appropriate  value  of  r  for  the  specification  a*  =  2, 
P*  =  0.800  when  g  =  0  we  use  the  last  row  of  Table  I,  i.e.,  the  row 
marked  n  =  ^ ,  and  select  r  =  4.  The  probability  of  a  correct  selection 
for  procedures  of  type  Ro  is  exactly  the  same  for  all  values  of  n  and  de- 
pends only  on  r.  Furthermore,  it  agrees  wdth  the  probability  for  pro- 
cedures of  type  Ri  with  n  =  co  so  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  prepare  a 
separate  table. 


PL, 


II 


H 

PM 

H 

K 
P 

o 

0  .^ 
Pi     d 

1  '^ 
I  «3 


'a 


2  S 


CC  Cl  t--  o 
00  r^  r-i  o 

O  '^  (N  o 


^  Ci  o  o 
»o  CO  o  CO 

00  ^  (M  CD 

.-I  o  deo 


Oi  r^  r^  CD 

^  ^  lO  o 

■*  CO  i-i  o 

rH  00(N 


CO  CO  CD  CO  o 
CO  00  CO  »o  o 

00  o  CO  ^  o 
1— I .— I  o  oco 


(M  ^  t^  C5  (M 

t^  ■*  O  CO  "tH 
lO  O  C^  T— I  CO 

T-H  O  O  O  <M 


r^  »o  r— I  C2  CO 

1—1  CO  CO  O  CD 
(M  t^  <M  T-H  o 

^  O  O  O  (M 


O  CO  CO  1— I  CO  o 

o  CO  00  T-H  o  o 

lO  00  lO  <M  i— I  O 

1-1  o  doo(M 


O  lO-*  (M  ■*  O 

o  t^  t^  t^  00  CO 

C^  CD  ^  >— I  O  CD 
1— I  O  O  O  O  '-H 


t^  t^  CO  iM  -^  O 
t— I  1— t  CD  CO  CD  lO 

a;  kO  CO  r-H  o  (M 

O  O  O  O  O  T-H 


O  O  CO  o  o  o  o 
O  O  CO  lO  O  lO  o 
O  lO  CO  (M  T-H  O  O 

^  o  o  o  o  o  ^ 


t-  CO  (M  t^  t^  CO  t^ 

CD  CO  (M  CD  CD  CO  CD 
CD  CO  C^  >— I  O  O  CD 

d>  d>  d  CD  d>  d>  d> 


s 

II 

a 

o  o  r^  vo  o  lO  o 

O  >0  CD  (M  lO  (M  O 
lO  (M  »-<  1-^  O  O  lO 

ooooooo 

--H  iM  CO  "*  O  O 


184 


REDUCING   TIME   IN   RELIABILITY   STUDIES 


185 


Table  III  —  Value  of  r  Required  to  Meet  the  Specification 
(a*,  P*)  FOR  Procedures  of  Type  R2  (g  =  0) 


a* 

p* 

1.05 

1.10 

1.15 

1.20 

1.25 

1.30 

1.35 

1.40 

0 

1.45 
0 

1.50 

2.00 

2.50 
0 

3.00 

0.50 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0.55 

14 

4 

2 

2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0.60 

55 

15 

7 

5 

3 

3 

2 

2 

2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0.65 

126 

33 

16 

10 

7 

5 

4 

3 

3 

3 

1 

1 

1 

0.70 

232 

61 

29 

17 

12 

9 

7 

6 

5 

4 

2 

1 

1 

0.75 

383 

101 

47 

28 

19 

14 

11 

9 

7 

6 

3 

2 

1 

0.80 

596 

157 

73 

43 

29 

21 

17 

13 

11 

9 

4 

2 

2 

0.85 

903 

238 

111 

65 

44 

32 

25 

20 

16 

14 

5 

3 

3 

0.90 

1381 

363 

169 

100 

67 

49 

37 

30 

25 

21 

8 

5 

4 

0.95 

2274 

597 

278 

164 

110 

80 

61 

49 

40 

34 

12 

7 

5 

0.99 

4549 

1193 

556 

327 

219 

160 

122 

98 

80 

68 

24 

14 

10 

It  i.s  also  unnecessary  to  prepare  a  separate  table  for  the  average  ex- 
periment time  for  procedures  of  type  R2  since  for  g  =  0  the  exact  values 
can  be  obtained  by  substituting  the  appropriate  value  of  n  in  the  ex- 
pressions appearing  in  Table  II  in  the  row  marked  n  =  oo  .  For  example, 
for  /(  =  2,  /•  =  1  and  a  =  1  the  exact  value  for  ^  =  0  is  0.500  62/2  = 
0.250  62 ,  and  for  n  =  3,  r  =  4,  a  =  00  the  exact  value  for  g  =  0  is 
4.000  62/3  =  1.333  62 .  It  should  be  noted  that  for  procedures  of  type  R2 
we  need  not  restrict  our  attention  to  the  cases  r  ^  n  but  can  also  con- 
sider r  >  //. 

Table  III  shows  the  value  of  r  recjuired  to  meet  the  specilication 
(a*,  F*)  with  a  procedure  of  type  R2  for  various  selected  values  of  a* 
and  P*. 


procedures  of  type  R3  —  sequential,  replacement 

Let  D{t)  denote  the  absolute  difference  between  the  number  of  fail- 
ures produced  by  the  two  processes  at  any  time  t.  The  sequential  pro- 
cedure is  as  follows: 

"Stop  the  test  as  soon  as  the  inequality 


Dit)  ^ 


In  [P*/{1  -  P*)] 


In 


a 


(3) 


is  satisfied.  Then  select  the  population  with  the  smaller  number  of  fail- 
ures as  the  better  one." 

To  get  the  best  results  we  will  choose  (a*,  P*)  so  that  the  right  hand 
member  of  the  inequality  (3)  is  an  integer.  Otherwise  we  would  be  operat- 
ing with  a  higher  value  of  P*  (or  a  smaller  value  of  a*)  than  was  specified. 


186 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


Table   IV  —  Average   Experiment   Time   and   Probability   of   a 

Correct  Selection  —  Procedure  Type  R3 

(a*   =   2,  P*   =  0.800,  ^   =  0) 

(Multiply  each  average  time  entry  by  d^) 


n 

a  =  1 

a  =  2 

a  =   00 

1 

2.000 

2.400 

2.000 

2 

1.000 

1.200 

1.000 

3 

0.667 

0.800 

0.667 

4 

0.500 

0.600 

0.500 

10 

0.200 

0.240 

0.200 

20 

0.100 

0.120 

0.100 

oc 

2.000/w 

2.400/n 

2.000/n 

Probability 

0.500 

0.800 

1.000 

For  example,  we  might  choose  a*  =  2  and  P*  =  0.800.  For  procedures 
of  type  R3  the  probability  of  a  correct  selection  is  again  completely  in- 
dependent of  n;  here  it  depends  only  on  the  true  value  of  the  ratio  a. 
The  average  experiment  time  depends  strongly  on  n  and  only  to  a  limited 
extent  on  the  true  value  of  the  ratio  a.  Table  IV  gives  these  quantities 
for  a  =  1,  a  =  2,  and  a  =  00  for  the  particular  specification  a*  =  2, 
p*  =  0.800  and  for  the  particular  value  ^  =  0. 

efficiency 

We  are  now  in  a  position  to  compare  the  efficiency  of  two  different 
types  of  procedures  using  the  same  value  of  n.  The  efficiency  of  Ri  rela- 
tive to  R2  is  the  reciprocal  of  the  ratio  of  their  average  experiment  time. 
This  is  given  in  Table  V  for  a*  =  2,  P*  =  0.800,  r  =  4  and  n  =  4,  10,  20 
and  00 .  By  Table  I  the  value  P*  =  0.800  is  not  attained  for  n  <  4. 

In  comparing  the  sequential  and  the  nonsequential  procedures  it  was 
found  that  the  slight  excesses  in  the  last  column  of  Table  I  over  0.800 

Table  V  —  Efficiency  of  Type  Ri  Relative  to 

Type  R2 
{a*  =  2,  P*  =  0.800,  r  =  4:,g  =  0) 


{ 


n 

a  =   1 

a  =  2 

a  =   00 

4 
10 
20 

00 

0.501 
0.837 
0.925 
1.000 

0.495 
0.836 
0.917 
1.000 

0.480 
0.835 
0.922 
1.000 

I 


REDUCING  TIME   IN   RELIABILITY   STUDIES 


187 


Table  VI 

—  Efficiency  of 
(«*  =  2,  P* 

Adjusted  Ri  Relative  To  R^ 
=  0.800,  ^  =  0) 

n 

a  =  1 

a  =  2 

a  =    00 

4 
10 
20 

00 

0.615 
0.754 
0.818 
0.873 

0.575 
0.708 
0.768 
0.822 

0.419 
0.528 
0.573 
0.612 

had  an  effect  on  the  efficiency.  To  make  the  procedures  more  comparable 
the  values  for  r  =  3  and  r  =  4  in  Table  I  were  averaged  with  values  p 
and  1  —  p  computed  so  as  to  give  a  probability  of  exactly  0.800  at  a  =  a*. 
The  corresponding  values  for  the  average  experiment  time  were  then 
averaged  with  the  same  values  p  and  1  —  p.  The  nonsequential  pro- 
cedures so  altered  will  be  called  "adjusted  procedures."  The  efficiency 
of  the  adjusted  Ri  relative  to  Rz  is  given  in  Table  VI. 

In  Table  VI  the  last  row  gives  the  efficiency  of  the  adjusted  procedure 
7^2  relative  to  Rz  .  Thus  we  can  separate  out  the  advantage  due  to 
the  replacement  feature  and  the  advantage  due  to  the  sequential  fea- 
ture. Table  VII  gives  these  results  in  terms  of  percentage  reduction  of 
average  experiment  time. 

We  note  that  the  reduction  due  to  the  replacement  feature  alone  is 
greatest  for  small  n  and  essentially  constant  with  a  while  the  reduction 


Table  VII  —  Per  Cent  Reduction  in  Average  Experiment  Time 
DUE  TO  Statistical  Techniques 

(a*  =  2,P*  =  0.800,  ^  =  0) 


a 

K 

Reduction  due  to 

Replacement 

Feature  Alone 

Reduction  due  to 

Sequential 
Feature  Alone 

Reduction 

due  to  both 

Replacement 

and  Sequential 

Features 

1 

4 
10 
20 

00 

29.5 

13.7 

6.3 

0.0 

12.7 
12.7 
12.7 
12.7 

38.5 
24.6 
18.2 
12.7 

2 

4 
10 
20 

00 

30.1 

13.9 

6.6 

0.0 

17.8 
17.8 

17.8 
17.8 

42.5 
29.2 
23.2 
17.8 

cc 

4 
10 
20 

00 

31.5 

13.6 

6.3 

0.0 

38.8 
38.8 

38.8 
38.8 

58.1 
47.2 
42.7 
38.8 

188  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

due  to  the  sequential  feature  alone  is  greatest  for  large  a  and  is  inde- 
pendent of  n.  Hence  if  the  initial  sample  size  per  process  n  is  large  we 
can  disregard  the  replacement  techniciue.  On  the  other  hand  the  true 
value  of  a  is  not  known  and  hence  the  advantage  of  sequential  experi- 
mentation should  not  be  disregarded. 

The  formulas  used  to  compute  the  accompanying  tables  are  given  in 
Addendum  2. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

The  author  wishes  to  thank  Miss  Marilyn  J.  Huyett  for  considerable 
help  in  computing  the  tables  in  this  paper.  Thanks  are  also  due  to 
J.  W.  Tukey  and  other  staff  members  for  constructive  criticism  and 
numerical  errors  they  have  pointed  out. 

Addendum  1 

In  this  addendum  we  shall  consider  the  more  general  problem  of  select- 
ing the  best  of  k  exponential  populations  treated  on  a  higher  mathemati- 
cal level.  For  k  =  2  this  reduces  to  the  problem  discussed  above. 

DEFINITIONS   AND   ASSUMPTIONS 

There  are  given  k  populations  H,  (^  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  k)  such  that  the  life- 
times of  units  taken  from  any  of  these  populations  are  independent 
chance  variables  with  the  exponential  density  (1)  with  a  common  (known 
or  unknown)  location  parameter  g  ^  0.  The  distributions  for  the  k  popu- 
lations are  identical  except  for  the  unknown  scale  parameter  6  >  0  which 
may  be  different  for  the  k  different  populations.  We  shall  consider  three 
different  cases  with  regard  to  g. 

Case  1 :  The  parameter  g  has  the  value  zero  (g  =  0). 

Case  2:  The  parameter  g  has  a  positive,  known  value  (g  >  0). 

Case  3:  The  parameter  g  is  unknown  (g  ^  0). 
Let  the  ordered  values  of  the  k  scale  parameters  be  denoted  by 

di^  e.-^  ■■■  ^  dk  (4) 

where  equal  values  may  be  regarded  as  ordered  in  any  arbitrary  manner. 
At  any  time  /  each  population  has  a  certain  number  of  failures  associated 
with  it.  Let  the  ordered  values  of  these  integers  be  denoted  by  ri  =  ri{t) 
so  that 


I 


ri  g  r2  ^  •  •  •  ^  r-fc  (5)  ^ 


i 


REDUCING   TIME   IN    RELIABILITY   STUDIES  189 

For  each  unit  the  life  beyond  its  guarantee  period  will  be  referred  to 
as  its  Poisson  life.  Let  Li{t)  denote  the  total  amount  of  Poisson  life 
observed  up  to  time  t  in  the  population  with  Vi  failures  (z  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  fc). 
If  two  or  more  of  the  r^  are  equal,  say  Vi  =  rj+i  =  •  •  •  =  r^+y ,  then  we 
shall  assign  r,  and  L;  to  the  population  with  the  largest  Poisson  life, 
ri+i  and  L^+i  to  the  population  with  the  next  largest,  •  •  •  ,  ri+_,  and  Lj+,- 
to  the  population  with  the  smallest  Poisson  life.  If  there  are  two  or  more 
equal  pairs  (ri ,  Li)  then  these  should  be  ordered  by  a  random  device 
giving  equal  probability  to  each  ordering.  Then  the  subscripts  in  (5)  as 
well  as  those  in  (4)  are  in  one-to-one  correspondence  with  the  k  given 
populations.  It  should  be  noted  that  Li(t)  ^  0  for  all  i  and  any  time 
t  ^  0.  The  complete  set  of  quantities  Li{t)  {i  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  k)  need  not 
be  ordered.  Let  a  =  61/62  so  that,  since  the  6i  are  ordered,  a  ^  1. 

We  shall  further  assume  that : 

1 .  The  initial  number  n  of  units  put  on  test  is  the  same  and  the  start- 
ing time  is  the  same  for  each  of  the  k  populations. 

2.  Each  replacement  is  assumed  to  be  a  new  unit  from  the  same  popu- 
lation as  the  failure  that  it  replaces. 

3.  Failures  are  assumed  to  be  clearly  recognizable  without  any  chance 
of  error. 

SPECIFICATIONS   FOR   CASE    1 :   gf    =    0 

Before  experimentation  starts  the  experimenter  is  asked  to  specify  two 
constants  a*  and  P*  such  that  a*  >  1  and  l'^  <  P*  <  1.  The  procedure 
Ri  =  Rsin),  which  is  defined  in  terms  of  the  specified  a*  and  P*,  has 
the  property  that  it  will  correctly  select  the  population  with  the  largest 
scale  parameter  with  probability  at  least  P*  whenever  a  ^  a*.  The  initial 
number  n  of  units  put  on  test  may  either  be  fixed  by  nonstatistical  con- 
siderations or  may  be  determined  by  placing  some  restriction  on  the 
average  experiment  time  function. 

Rule  Rs : 

"Continue  experimentation  with  replacement  until  the  inequality 

k 

^  ^*-(^.-a)  ^   (1  _  p*)/p*  (6) 

i=2 

is  satisfied.  Then  stop  and  select  the  population  with  the  smallest  num- 
ber of  failures  as  the  one  having  the  largest  scale  parameter." 


190 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


Remarks 

1.  Since  P*  >  Y2  then  (1  —  P*)/P*  <  1  and  hence  no  two  popula- 
tions can  have  the  same  vahie  ri  at  stopping  time. 

2.  For  A:  =  2  the  inequality  (6)  reduces  to  the  inequalitj^  (3). 

3.  The  procedure  7^3  terminates  onl}^  at  a  failure  time,  never  between 
failures,  since  the  left  member  of  (G)  depends  on  t  only  through  the 
quantities  7-i{t). 

4.  After  experimentation  is  completed  one  can  make,  at  the  lOOP  per 
cent  confidence  level,  the  confidence  statement 


ds  ^  di  S  a*  9,     (or     di/a"" 


^  ds  S  e,) 


(7) 


where  6s  is  the  scale  parameter  of  the  selected  population. 


Numerical  Illustrations 


»l/4 


Suppose  the  preassigned  constants  are  P*  =  0.95  and  a*  =  19' 
2.088  so  that  (1  -  P*)/P*  =  ^9-  Then  for  A;  =  2  the  procedure  is  to 
stop  when  r-i  —  ri  ^  4.  For  A;  =  3  it  is  easy  to  check  that  the  procedure 
reduces  to  the  simple  form:  "Stop  when  ?'2  —  ri  ^  5".  For  A;  >  3  either 
calculations  can  be  carried  out  as  experimentation  progresses  or  a  table 
of  stopping  values  can  be  constructed  before  experimentation  starts. 
For  A:  =  4  and  A;  =  5  see  Table  VIII. 

In  the  above  form  the  proposed  rule  is  to  stop  Avhen,  for  at  least  one 


Table  VIII  —  Sequential  Rule  for  P*  =  0.95,  a*  =   19 
A:  =  4  fc  =  5 


1/4 


r2  —  ri 

rs  —  ri 

n  —  ri 

5 

5 

9 

5 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

ri  —  ri 

ra  —  ri 

n  —  ci 

Ti  —  n 

5 

5 

9 

10 

5 

5 

10 

10 

5 

6 

6 

8 

5 

6 

7 

7 

5 

7 

7 

7 

6 

6 

6 

6 

*  Starred  rows  can  be  omitted  without  affecting  the  test  since  every  integer  in 
these  rows  is  at  least  as  great  as  the  corresponding  integer  in  the  previous  row. 
They  are  shown  here  to  ilhistrate  a  systematic  method  which  insures  that  all  the 
necessary  rows  are  included. 


REDUCING   TIME   IN    RELIABILITY   STUDIES  191 

row  (say  row  j)  in  the  table,  the  observed  row  vector  (r^  —  Vi , 
Ts  —  Ti  ,  ■  ■  ■  ,  Vk  —  z'l)  is  such  that  each  comyonent  is  at  least  as  large  as 
the  corresponding  component  of  row  j. 

Properties  of  Rs  for  k  =  2  and  g  =  0 

For  A-  =  2  and  ^  =  0  the  procedure  Rs  is  an  example  of  a  Sequential 
Probability  Ratio  test  as  defined  by  A.  Wald  in  his  book.^  The  Average 
Sample  Number  (ASN)  function  and  the  Operating  Characteristics  (OC) 
function  for  Rs  can  be  obtained  from  the  general  formulae  given  by 
Wald.  Both  of  these  functions  depend  on  di  and  0-2  only  through  their 
ratio  a.  In  our  problem  there  is  no  excess  over  the  boundary  and  hence 
Wald's  approximation  formulas  are  exact.  When  our  problem  is  put  into 
the  Wald  framework,  the  symmetry  of  our  problem  implies  equal  proba- 
bilities of  type  1  and  type  2  errors.  The  OC  function  takes  on  comple- 
mentary values  for  any  point  a  =  61/62  and  its  reciprocal  62/61  .  We  shall 
therefore  compute  it  only  for  a  ^  1  and  denote  it  by  P{a).  For  a  >  1 
the  quantity  P(a)  denotes  the  probability  of  a  correct  selection  for  the 
true  ratio  a. 

The  equation  determining  Wald's  h  function  is 


1  +  a         1  +  a 
for  which  the  non-zero  solution  in  h  is  easily  computed  to  be 

h{a)  =  }^  (9) 


In 


a 


Hence  we  obtain  from  Wald's  formula  (3:43)  in  Reference  5 


s 

a 


Pia)  =  -^^  (10) 

where  s  is  the  smallest  integer  greater  than  or  equal  to 

S  =  In  [PV(1  -  P*)]/ln  a*  (11) 

In  particular,  for  a  =  1"^,  a*  and  00  we  have 

Pi^^)  =  1/2,         ^(«*)  ^  P*,         P(^)  =  1  (12) 

^\'e  have  written  P(l"^)  above  for  lim  P{x)  as  x  -^  1  from  the  right.  The 
procedure  becomes  more  efficient  if  we  choose  P  and  a*  so  that  *S'  is  an 
integer.  Then  s  ^  S  and  P(a*)  =  P*. 

Letting  F  denote  the  total  number  of  observed  failures  required  to 


192  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

terminate  the  experiment  we  obtain  for  the  ASN  function 

and,  in  particular,  for  a  =  1,  oo 

E(F;  1)  =  s-     and     E{F;  oo)  =  s  (14) 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  for  s  =  1  we  obtain 

E{F;  a)  =  1  for  all  a  ^  1      (15) 

and  that  this  result  is  exact  since  for  s  =   1  the  right-hand  member  S  \ 

of  (3)  is  at  most  one  and  hence  the  procedure  terminates  with  certainty  ' 

immediately  after  the  first  failure.  ' 

As  a  result  of  the  exponential  assumption,  the  assumption  of  replace-  ; 

ment  and  the  assumption  that  ^  =  0  it  follows  that  the  intervals  between  \ 

failures  are  independently  and  identically  distributed.  For  a  single  popu-  ' 

lation  the  time  interval  between  failures  is  an  exponential  chance  vari-  ; 

able.  Hence,  for  two  populations,  the  time  interval  is  the  minimum  of  j 

two  exponentials  which  is  again  exponential.   Letting  r  denote  the  i 

(chance)  duration  of  a  typical  interval  and  letting  T  denote  the  (chance)  j 
total  time  needed  to  terminate  the  procedure,  Ave  have 

E{T;  a,  62)  =  E{F;  a)E(r;  a,  d^)  =  E{F;  a)  (^^^  (f^)      (16) 

I 

Hence  Ave  obtain  from  (13)  and  (14) 

E{T;  a,  02)  =  -  -^  ^^^  for  a  >  1     (17) 

n  a  —  1  a*  +  1 

E{T;  1,  d,)  =  ^        and         E{T;  <^,  0,)  =  ^  (18> 

For  the  numerical  illustration  treated  above  Avith  k  =  2  we  have 

na)  =  ^-^  (19) : 

P(l+)  =  ^;         P(2.088)  =  0.95;         P(oo)  =  1  (20) 

EiF-a)  =  4^^4^  =  4^--+  Vy  +  '^  (21) 

a—   la*-f-l  a*-t-l 

E{F;  1)  =  16.0;         /iXF;  2.088)  =  10.2;         E{F;  00)  =  4  (22), 


REDUCING   TIME    IN    RELIABILITY   STUDIES  193 

E(T;  1,  ^2)  =  —  ;        E{T;  2.088,  6^  =  —  ; 

n  n  (23) 

n 

For  /.•  >  2  the  proposed  procedure  is  an  application  of  a  general  se- 
quential rule  for  selecting  the  best  of  A-  populations  which  is  treated  in 
[1].  Proof  that  the  probability  specification  is  met  and  bounds  on  the 
probability  of  a  correct  decision  can  be  found  there. 

CASE     2:    COMMON   KNOWN   ^    >    0 

In  order  to  obtain  the  properties  of  the  sec^uential  procedure  R:>.  for 
this  case  it  will  be  convenient  to  consider  other  sequential  procedures. 
Let  (S  =  1/6-2  —  1/^1  so  that,  since  the  di  are  ordered,  jS  ^  0.  Let  us 
assume  that  the  experimenter  can  specify  three  constants  a*,  /3*  and 
P*  such  that  a*  >  1,  /3*  >  0  and  ^  2  <  -P*  <  1  ai^d  a  procedure  is  de- 
sired which  will  select  the  population  with  the  largest  scale  parameter 
with  probability  at  least  P*  whenever  we  have  both 

a  ^  a*     and     i3  ^  /3* 

The  following  procedure  meets  this  specification. 

Rule  Rs': 

"Continue  experimentation  with  replacement  until  the  inec^uality 

fi  «*-(^i-'-i>e-^*(^i-^i)^  (l_p*)/p*  (24) 

1=2 

is  satisfied.  Then  stop  and  select  the  population  with  the  smallest  nimiber 
of  failures  as  the  one  having  the  largest  scale  parameter.  If,  at  stopping 
time,  two  or  more  populations  have  the  same  value  ri  then  select  that 
particular  one  of  these  with  the  largest  Poisson  life  Li  ." 

Remarks 

1 .  For  k  =  2  the  inequality  reduces  to 

(r,  -  n)  In  a*  +  (Li  -  L2)  13*  ^  In  [P*/a  -  P*)]  (25) 

If  <7  =  0  then  Li  =  Li  for  all  t  and  the  procedure  R/  reduces  to  R3  . 

2.  The  procedure  R/  may  terminate  not  only  at  failures  but  also  be- 
tween failures. 


194  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

3.  The  same  inequality  (24)  can  also  be  used  if  experimentation  is 
carried  on  without  replacement,  one  advantage  of  the  latter  being  that 
there  is  less  bookkeeping  involved.  In  this  case  there  is  a  possibility 
that  the  units  will  all  fail  before  the  inequality  is  satisfied  so  that  the 
procedure  is  not  yet  completely  defined  for  this  case.  One  possibility 
in  such  a  situation  is  to  continue  experimentation  with  new  units  from 
each  population  until  the  inequality  is  satisfied.  Such  a  procedure  will 
terminate  in  a  finite  time  with  probability  one,  i.e.,  Prob{  T  >  To}  -^0 
as  To  — >  00,  and  the  probability  specification  will  be  satisfied. 

4.  A  procedure  R3  (ni  ,  n-z ,  ■  •  •  ,  rik  ,  ti ,  t2 ,  •  •  •  ,  tk)  using  the  same 
inequality  (24)  but  based  on  dilTerent  initial  sample  sizes  and/or  on 
different  starting  times  for  the  initial  samples  also  satisfies  the  above 
probability  specification.  In  the  case  of  different  starting  times  it  is 
required  that  the  experimenter  wait  at  least  g  units  of  time  after  the  last 
initial  sample  is  put  on  test  before  reaching  any  decision. 

0.  One  disadvantage  of  R3  is  that  there  is  some  (however  remote) 
possibility  of  terminating  while  ri  =  r2  .  This  can  be  avoided  by  adding 
the  condition  r^  >  n  to  (24)  but,  of  course,  the  average  experiment  time 
is  increased.  Another  way  of  avoiding  this  is  to  use  the  procedure  R3 
which  depends  only  on  the  number  of  failures;  the  effect  of  using  R3 
when  g  >  0  will  be  considered  below. 

6.  The  terms  of  the  sum  in  (24)  represent  likelihood  ratios.  If  at  any 
time  each  term  is  less  than  unity  then  we  shall  regard  the  decision  to 
select  the  population  with  n  failures  and  Li  units  of  Poisson  life  as  opti- 
mal. Since  (1  —  P*)/P*  <  1  then  each  term  must  be  less  than  unity  at 
termination. 

Properties  of  Procedure  Rz  for  k  =  2  p 

The  OC  and  ASN  functions  for  Rs  will  be  approximated  by  comparing 
R3'  with  another  procedure  R/  defined  below.  We  shall  assume  that  P* 
is  close  to  unity  and  that  g  is  small  enough  (compared  to  d^)  so  that  the 
probability  of  obtaining  two  failures  within  g  imits  of  time  is  small 
enough  to  be  negligible.  Then  we  can  write  approximately  at  termination 

Li^nT  -  r,g        {i  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  A:)  (26) 

and 

Li  -  Li  ^  (r,  -  r,)g  (i  =  2,  3,  •  •  •  ,  A:)     (27) 

Substituting  this  in  (24)  and  letting 

5*  =  a*  c^*"  (28) 

suggests  a  new  rule,  say  R/' ,  which  we  now  define. 


REDUCING   TIME    IN    RELIABILITY    STUDIES  195 

h'ule  R/ 

"Continue  experimentation  with  replacement  until  the  inequality 

k 

X  6*-(^i-'-i)  ^  (1  -  P*)/P*  (29) 


is  satisfied.  Then  stop  and  select  the  population  with  n  failures  as  the 
one  with  the  largest  scale  parameter." 

For  rule  Rz"  the  experimenter  need  only  specify  P*  and  the  smallest 
value  5*  of  the  single  parameter 

8  =  ^'  e''''"''-''"'''  =  ae'^  (30) 

62 

that  he  desires  to  detect  with  probability  at  least  P*. 

We  shall  approximate  the  OC  and  ASX  function  of  R/'  for  k  =  2 
by  computing  them  under  the  assumption  that  (27)  holds  at  termina- 
tion. The  results  will  be  considered  as  an  approximation  for  the  OC  and 
ASN  functions  respectively  of  R/  for  /,■  =  2.  The  similarity  of  (29) 
and  (6)  immediately  suggests  that  we  might  replace  a*  by  5*  and  a  by 
5  in  the  formulae  for  (6).  To  use  the  resulting  expressions  for  R^  we 
would  compute  5*  as  a  function  of  a*  and  /3*  by  (28)  and  5  as  a  function 
of  a  and /3  by  (30). 

The  similarity  of  (29)  and  (6)  shows  that  Z„  (defined  in  Reference  5, 
page  170)  under  (27)  with  gr  >  0  is  the  same  function  of  5*  and  5  as  it 
is  of  a*  and  a  when  g  =  0.  To  complete  the  justification  of  the  above 
result  it  is  sufficient  to  show  that  the  individual  increment  ^  of  Z„  is  the 
same  function  of  5*  and  8  under  (27)  with  ^  >  0  as  it  is  of  a*  and  a 
when  ^  =  0.  To  keep  the  increments  independent  it  is  necessary  to  as- 
sociate each  failure  with  the  Poisson  life  that  follows  rather  than  with 
the  Poisson  life  that  precedes  the  failure.  Neglecting  the  probability 
that  any  two  failures  occur  ^^•ithin  g  units  of  time  we  have  two  values  for 
z,  namely 

^      -(.nt-g)/ei    -ntl$2 

z  =  log^^^ =  -log  5  (31) 

and,  interchanging  61  and  ^2 ,  gives  z  —  log  5.  Moreover 


196  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL    JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

r  r  -  e-(— «)/«v"^^^^  dx  dy 

Jg  Jg  6-1 


Prob  \z  =   -logSj 


^2     -0[92(n-l)+9l"l/9lfl2    _i_   ^1     -H9in+Bi(n-l)]l9ie2,) 

-  e  +  -  e  /o9\ 


1  +  5 


Thus  the  OC  and  ASN  functions  under  (27)  with  g  >  0  bear  the  same 
relation  to  5*  and  5  as  they  do  to  a*  and  a  when  ^  =  0.  Hence,  letting 
w  denote  the  smallest  integer  greater  than  or  equal  to 

^  In  [P*/(l  -  P*)]  ^  \n[P*/{l-P*)] 

In  8*  gl3*  +  In  a*  ^'  ' 

we  can  write  (omitting  P*  in  the  rule  description)  | 

7^15;  /?/  («*,  /5*){  ^  P{5;  /^.^"(S*)!  ^  ^-^^^  (34) 

<w. I   ■ — -  tor  5  >  1      {So) 

^    \8  -  l/\5"'  +1/ 


w~  for  5=1 

W'e  can  approximate  the  average  time  between  failures  by 


I 


and  the  average  experiment  time  by  « 

E{T;  /?/(«*,  ^*)}  ^  E{F;  R,'(a*,  0*)\  [^.^ f^'^ _^ ^'^,        (37) 

n{Oi  -T  02  -f-  zg) 

Since  5  ^  1  then  5"(1  +  5")  is  an  increasing  function  of  w  and  by 
(33)  it  is  a  non-increashig  function  of  5*.  By  (28)  5*  ^  a*  and  hence, 
if  we  disregard  the  approximation  (34), 

P{8;  AV(«*)1  -  ^!^{py^/_p.^y..n^*  ^  P{S;R/m}    (38) 

Clearly  the  rules  Ri{a*,  P*)  and  R/  {a*,  P*)  are  equivalent  so  that 
for  g  >  0  we  haA-e 

P{8;R-s{a*)}   ^  P{8;R/ia*)]  (39) 


REDUCING   TIME    IN   RELIABILITY   STUDIES  197 

and  hence,  in  particular,  letting  8  =  8*  in  (38)  we  have 

P{8*;R,(a*)}  ^  P{8*;R,"(8*)]  ^  P*  (40) 

since  the  right  member  of  (34)  reduces  to  P*  when  W  is  an  integer  and 

5  =  5*.  The  error  in  the  approximations  above  can  be  disregarded  when 
g  is  small  compared  to  02  .  Thus  we  have  shown  that  for  small  values  of 
g/d2  the  probability  specification  based  on  (a*,  ^*,  P*)  is  satisfied  in  the 
sense  of  (40)  if  we  use  the  procedure  Rsia*,  P*),  i.e.,  if  we  proceed  as  if 

It  would  be  desirable  to  show  that  w^e  can  proceed  as  if  g  =  0  for  all 
values  of  g  and  P*.  It  can  be  shown  that  for  swfficiently  large  n  the  rule 
Ri{a*,  P*)  meets  it  specification  for  all  g.  One  effect  of  increasing  n 
is  to  decrease  the  average  time  E{t)  between  failures  and  to  approach 
the  corresponding  problem  without  replaceme^it  since  g/E{T)  becomes 
large.  Hence  we  need  only  show  that  Ri{a*,  P*)  meets  its  specification 
for  the  corresponding  problem  without  replacement.  If  we  disregard  the 
information  furnished  by  Poisson  life  and  rely  solely  on  the  counting  of 
failures  then  the  problem  reduces  to  testing  in  a  single  binomial  whether 

6  =  di  for  population  IIi  and  6  =  do  for  population  112  or  vice  versa.  Let- 
ting p  denote  the  probability  that  the  next  failure  arises  from  111  then 
we  have  formally 

tia'-V  =  -. — ; —  versus  Hi-.p  = 


1  +  a  ^        1  +  a 

For  preassigned  constants  a*  >  I  and  P*  (V2  <  P*  <  1)  the  appropri- 
ate sequential  likelihood  test  to  meet  the  specification: 

"Probability  of  a  Correct  Selection  ^  P*  whenever  a  ^  a*"  (41) 
then  turns  out  to  be  precisely  the  procedure  Rsia*,  P*).  Hence  we  may 
proceed  as  if  gr  =  0  when  n  is  sufficiently  large. 

The  specifications  of  the  problem  may  be  given  in  a  different  form. 
Suppose  01*  >  02*  are  specified  and  it  is  desired  to  haxe  a  probability  of  a 
correct  selection  of  at  least  P*  whenever  ^1  ^  0i*  >  02*  ^  02  .  Then  we 
can  form  the  following  sequential  likelihood  procedure  R3*  which  is 
more  efficient  than  Rsia*,  P*). 

Rule  /?3*.- 

"Continue  experimentation  without  replacement  until  a  time  t  is 
reached  at  which  the  inequality 


198  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

is  satisfied.  Then  stop  and  select  the  population  with  ri  failures  as  the 
population  with  d  =  di". 

It  can  be  easily  shown  that  the  greatest  lower  bound  of  the  bracketed 
quantity  in  (42)  is  0i*/^2*.  Hence  for  di*/d2*  =  a*  and  P*  >  i  2  the  time 
required  by  Rz*{6i*,  62*,  P*)  ivill  always  be  less  than  the  time  required 
by  R,(a*,P*). 

Another  type  of  problem  is  one  in  which  we  are  given  that  6  =  di* 
for  one  population  and  d  =  62*  for  the  A;  —  1  others  where  6]*  >  62*  are 
specified.  The  problem  is  to  select  the  population  with  6  =  di*.  Then 
(42)  can  again  be  used.  In  this  case  the  parameter  space  is  discrete  with 
k  points  only  one  of  which  is  correct.  If  Rule  R3*  is  used  then  the 
probability  of  selecting  the  correct  point  is  at  least  P*. 

Equilibrium  Approach  When  Failures  Are  Replaced 

9 

Consider  first  the  case  in  which  all  items  on  test  are  from  the  same 

exponential  population  with  parameters  (6,  g).  Let  Tnj  denote  the  length 
of  the  time  interval  between  the  j^^  and  the  j  +  1^*  failures,  (j  =  0, 
1,  •  •  •  ),  where  n  is  the  number  of  items  on  test  and  the  0*''  failure  de- 
notes the  starting  time.  As  time  increases  to  infinity  the  expected  number 
of  failures  per  unit  time  clearly  approaches  n/(0  +  g)  which  is  called  the 
equilibrium  failure  rate.  The  inverse  of  this  is  the  expected  time  between 
failures  at  equilibrium,  say  E{Tn^).  The  question  as  to  how  the  quanti- 
ties E{Tnj)  approach  E(Tn^)  is  of  considerable  interest  in  its  own  right. 
The  following  results  hold  for  any  fixed  integer  71  ^  1  unless  explicitly 
stated  otherwise.  It  is  easy  to  see  that 

^^(^i)  ^  E{TnJ  ^  E(T„o)  (43) 

since  the  exact  values  are  respectively 

e       /,        e-^-^'^/^X  ^  g+d  ^        ,    d 


< 


^  9+  -  (44) 


n  —  1  \  n      /  n  n 

In  fact,  since  all  units  are  new  at  starting  time  and  since  at  the  time  of 
the  first  failure  all  units  (except  the  replacement)  have  passed  their 
guarantee  period  with  probability  one  then 

^(^i)  ^  E(Tnj)  S  E{Tn,)  (j  ^  0)     (45) 

If  we  compare  the  case  g  >  0  with  the  special  case  g  =  0  we  obtain 

E{2\j)  ^  -  (y=  1,2,  •••)     (46) 

n 


REDUCING   TIME   IN   RELIABILITY   STUDIES  199 

and  if  we  compare  it  with  the  non-replacement  case  {g/Q  is  large)  we 
obtain 

^(n,)  ^  -^.  (i  =  1,  2,  • .  •  ,  n  -  1).     (47) 

These  comparisons  show  that  the  difference  in  (46)  is  small  when  g/0  is 
small  and  for  j  <  n  the  difference  in  (47)  is  small  when  g/d  is  large. 

It  is  possible  to  compute  E{Tnj)  exactly  for  g  ^  0  but  the  computa- 
tion is  extremely  tedious  for  j  ^  2.  The  results  for  j  =  1  and  0  are  given 
in  (44).  Fori  =  2 


E(Tn2)    = 


n 


(n    +    2)(/i    -    1)      -(n-2)gie 


1  -  '    '    ': -e 

n 


+  Vl^iI  g-(«-i)p/^ ri-2_    -un-i),ie  I  {n>2) 


n  —  \  v?{n  —  1) 

and 


2{n-l)glB 


(48) 


E{T,.^  =  ^  -  ^  [1  -  ^e-'"  +  e-'"'\  (49) 

For  the  case  of  two  populations  with  a  common  guarantee  period  g 
we  can  write  similar  inequalities.  We  shall  use  different  symbols  a,  h  for 
the  initial  sample  size  from  the  populations  with  scale  parameters  Oi  ,  O2 
respectively  even  though  our  principal  interest  is  in  the  case  a  =  b  =  n 
say.  Let  Ta,b.j  denote  the  interval  between  the  j^^  and  j  -f  P*  fail- 
ures in  this  case  and  let  X,  =  l/di  (i  =  1,2).  We  then  have  for  all  values 
of  a  and  b 

[aXi  +  b\o]-'  ^  E(TaXj)  ^  E(Taxo) 

=  g  +  [aXi  +  b\,]-'     (j  =  0,1,2,  ■■■,  ^)     (50) 

J?(T  ^  (gl    +    g){e2    +    g)  .riN 

a{92  -h  9)  +  b{di  +  g) 

The  result  for  E(Ta,b.i)  corresponding  to  that  in  (43)  does  not  hold  if 
the  ratio  di/62  is  too  large;  in  particular  it  can  be  shown  that 

-0[(a-l)Xi+6X2l-l 


E{T.,b..)  =  ^       "^^       ^'  ^ 


aXi  +  6X2/ \(a  —  l)Xi  4-  6X2 


_  Xie 


aXi  +  6X2 


+  /       ^X2       Y  1  \r         x^e-''^'^^''-''''-'- 


(52) 


,aXi  -\-  bX2/\aXi  +  (&  —  1)^2  L  0X1  +  ^^2 

is  larger  than  E{Ta,h.J  for  a  =  6  =  1  when  ^/^i  =  0.01  and  g/di  =  0.10 


200  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

SO  that  QilQi  =  10.  The  expression  (52)  reduces  to  that  in  (44)  if  we  set 
di  =  02  =  6  and  replace  a  and  h  by  n/2  in  the  resulting  expression. 

Corresponding  exact  expressions  for  E(Ta.b,j)  for  j  >  1  are  extremely 
tedious  to  derive  and  unwieldy  although  the  integrations  involved  are 
elementary.  If  we  let  g  —^  oo  then  we  obtain  expressions  for  the  non- 
replacement  case  which  are  relatively  simple.  They  are  best  expressed 
as  a  recursion  formula. 


E(.Ta,bj)    =    — ,      ,.       ETa-\,b,}-l 


+  m^  ^"—     ^^  =  '^ 


(53) 


EiT.,b.d  =         "^^  ^ 


aXi  +  6X2  (a  —  l)Xi  +  6X2 

I        0X2  1  (    h  >  ^^ 

"^  aXi  +  6X2  aXi  +  (6  -  1)X2  '     = 


(54) 


E(Tafij)  ^  g  +  di/a  fori  ^  a  and  j  =  0     (55) 

E{Ta,oJ  =  dr/(a  -j)  for  1  ^  i  ^  a  -  1     (56) 

Results  similar  to  (55)  and  (56)  hold  for  the  case  a  =  0.  The  above 
results  for  gr  =  00  provide  useful  approximations  for  E{Ta,b,j)  when  g 
is  large.  Upper  bounds  are  given  by  M 

E{Ta,bj)  ^  [aXi  +  (6  -  i)X2r  (i  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  h)     (57) 

E(Ta.bj+b)  ^  [(a  -  j)Xr'  (i  =  1,  2,  •  .  •  ,  a  -  1).      (58) 

Duration  of  the  Experiment 

For  the  sequential  rule  R^'  with  k  =  2  we  can  now  write  down  approxi- 
mations as  well  as  upper  and  lower  bounds  to  the  expected  duration 
E{T)  of  the  experiment.  From  (50) 


I 


g  +  ..5^;^.\  s  E(T)  =  E  /?(r.,,) 


c-l 

n(Xi  -f  X2)  ^  '''^  '  ~  §  '^^^  "'"'^^  (59) 

+  \FA¥;  5)  -  c]i!;(T„,„,.) 


where  c  is  the  largest  integer  less  than  or  equal  to  E{F\  5).  The  right  ex- 
pression of  (59)  can  be  approximated  by  (53)  and  (54)  if  g  is  large.  If 
c  <  2n  then  the  upper  bounds  are  given  by  (57)  and  (58).  A  simpler 


j 


REDUCING   TIME   IN   RELIABILITY   STUDIES  201 

upper  bound,  which  holds  for  all  \'aliies  of  c  is  given  by 

E{T)  ^  E{F-  b)E{Tn,n..)  =  E{F;  8)  (g  +  ^^  (60) 

CASE   3:   COMMON    UNKNOWN   LOCATION   PARAMETER    ^    ^    0 

In  this  case  the  more  conservative  procedure  is  to  proceed  under  the 
assumption  that  </  =  0.  By  the  discussion  above  the  probability  require- 
ment will  in  most  problems  be  satisfied  for  all  ^  ^  0.  The  OC  and  ASN 
functions,  which  are  now  functions  of  the  true  value  of  g,  were  already 
obtained  above.  Of  course,  we  need  not  consider  values  of  g  greater  than 
the  smallest  observed  lifetime  of  all  units  tested  to  failure. 

Addendum  2 

For  completeness  it  would  be  appropriate  to  state  explicitly  some  of 
the  formulas  used  in  computing  the  tables  in  the  early  part  of  the  paper. 
For  the  nonsequential,  nonreplacement  rule  Ri  with  /c  =  2  the  proba- 
bility of  a  correct  selection  is 

P(a;  R,)  =    [    [   Mu,  OAfrix,  6,)  dy  dx  (61) 

where 

fXx,  e)  =  '-  C(l  -  e^'"y-'  e-^^"-^+^"^  (r  ^  n)     (62) 

and  C"  is  the  usual  combinatorial  symbol.  This  can  also  be  expressed  in 
the  form 

P{a;  R,)  =  1   -   (rC:r  Z     ^~^^"' 

;=i  n  -  r  -\-j  (63) 

C'-l{B[r,  n-r+l+a(n-r+  j)]}-' 

where  B[x,  y]  is  the  complete  Beta  function.  Eciuation  (66)  holds  for 
any  g  ^  0. 

For  the  rule  Ri  the  expected  duration  of  the  experiment  for  k  =  2 
is  given  by 

E{T)  =    r  x{fr(x,  d,)[l  -  Frix,  62)]  +  frix,  d,)[l  -  Fr(x,  ^i)] }  dx     (64) 

•'0 

where  frix,  6)  is  the  density  in  (62)  and  Fr{x,  B)  is  its  c.d.f.  This  can 


202  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

also  be  expressed  in  the  form 

^iKC^ZZt (-1)   c.-. c, .     

plus  another  similar  expression  in  which  6i  ,  a  are  replaced  by  62 ,  a~^ 
respectively.  For  ^  >  0  we  need  only  add  g  to  this  result.  This  result 
was  used  to  compute  E(T)  in  table  lA  f or  a  =  1  and  a  =  2.  For  a  =  oo 
the  expression  simplifies  to 

E{T)  =  e^rC:  ±  erl       ^~^^'^\  (66) 

which  can  be  shoAvn  to  be  equivalent  to 

E{T)  =  e,f: ^—  (67) 

REFERENCES 

1.  Bechhofer,  R.  E.,  Kiefer,  J.  and  Sobel,  M.,  On  a  Type  of  Sequential  Multiple 

Decision  Procedures  for  Certain  Ranking  and  Identification  Problems  with 
k  Populations.  To  be  published. 

2.  Birnbaum,  A.,   Statistical  methods  for  Poisson  processes  and  exponential 

populations,  J.  Am.  Stat.  Assoc,  49,  pp.  254-266,  1954. 

3.  Birnbaum,  A.,  Some  procedures  for  comparing  Poisson  processes  or  popula- 

tions, Biometrika,  40,  pp.  447-49, 1953. 

4.  Girshick,  M.  A.,  Contributions  to  the  theory  of  sequential  analj'sis  I,  Annals 

Math.  Stat.,  17,  pp.  123-43,  1946. 

5.  Wald,  A.,  Sequential  Analysis,  John  Wiley  and  Sons,  New  York,  1947. 


I 


A  Class  of  Binary  Signaling  Alphabets 

By  DAVID  SLEPIAN 

(Manuscript  received  September  27,  1955) 

A  class  of  binary  signaling  alphabets  called  "group  alphabets"  is  de- 
scribed. The  alphabets  are  generalizations  of  Hamming^ s  error  correcting 
codes  and  possess  the  following  special  features:  {1)  all  letters  are  treated 
alike  in  transmission;  {2)  the  encoding  is  simple  to  instrument;  (3)  maxi- 
mum likelihood  detection  is  relatively  simple  to  instrument;  and  (4)  in 
certain  practical  cases  there  exist  no  better  alphabets.  A  compilation  is  given 
of  group  alphabets  of  length  equal  to  or  less  than  10  binary  digits. 

INTRODUCTION 

This  paper  is  concerned  with  a  class  of  signahng  alphabets,  called 
"group  alphabets,"  for  use  on  the  symmetric  binary  channel.  The  class 
in  question  is  sufficiently  broad  to  include  the  error  correcting  codes  of 
Hamming,^  the  Reed-Muller  codes,"  and  all  "systematic  codes''.^  On 
the  other  hand,  because  they  constitute  a  rather  small  subclass  of  the 
class  of  all  binary  alphabets,  group  alphabets  possess  many  important 
special  features  of  practical  interest. 

In  particular,  (1)  all  letters  of  the  alphabets  are  treated  alike  under 
transmission;  (2)  the  encoding  scheme  is  particularly  simple  to  instru- 
ment; (3)  the  decoder  —  a  maximum  likelihood  detector —  is  the  best 
I  possible  theoretically  and  is  relatively  easy  to  instrument;  and  (4)  in 
certain  cases  of  practical  interest  the  alphabets  are  the  best  possible 
theoretically. 

It  has  very  recently  been  proved  by  Peter  Elias^  that  there  exist  group 
alphabets  which  signal  at  a  rate  arbitarily  close  to  the  capacity,  C,  of 
the  symmetric  binary  channel  with  an  arbitrarily  small  probability  of 
error.  Elias'  demonstration  is  an  existence  proof  in  that  it  does  not 
show  explicitly  how  to  construct  a  group  alphabet  signaling  at  a  rate 
greater  than  C  —  e  with  a  probability  of  error  less  than  5  for  arbitrary 
positive  5  and  e.  Unfortunately,  in  this  respect  and  in  many  others,  our 
understanding  of  group  alphabets  is  still  fragmentary. 

In  Part  I,  group  alphabets  are  defined  along  with  some  related  con- 

203 


204  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

cepts  necessary  for  their  understanding.  The  main  results  obtained  up 
to  the  present  time  are  stated  without  proof.  Examples  of  these  concepts 
are  given  and  a  compilation  of  the  best  group  alphabets  of  small  size 
is  presented  and  explained.  This  section  is  intended  for  the  casual  reader. 

In  Part  II,  proofs  of  the  statements  of  Part  I  are  given  along  with 
such  theory  as  is  needed  for  these  proofs. 

The  reader  is  assumed  to  be  familiar  with  the  paper  of  Hamming, 
the  basic  papers  of  Shannon*  and  the  most  elementary  notions  of  the 
theory  of  finite  groups. 

Part  I  —  Group  Alphabets  and  Their  Properties 

1.1    INTRODUCTION 

We  shall  be  concerned  in  all  that  follows  with  communication  over  the 
symmetric  binary  channel  shown  on  Fig.  1.  The  channel  can  accept 
either  of  the  two  symbols  0  or  1 .  A  transmitted  0  is  received  as  a  0  with 
probability  q  and  is  received  as  a  1  w'ith  probability  p  —  1  —  g :  a  trans- 
mitted 1  is  received  as  a  1  with  probability  q  and  is  received  as  a  0  with 
probability  p.  We  assume  0  ^  p  ^  ^^.  The  "noise"  on  the  channel 
operates  independently  on  each  symbol  presented  for  transmission.  The 
capacity  of  this  channel  is 

C  =  1  +  P  log2P  +  q  log29  bits/symbol  (1) 

By  a  K-leUer,  n-place  binary  signaling  alphabet  we  shall  mean  a  collec- 
tion of  K  distinct  sequences  of  n  binary  digits.  An  individual  sequence 
of  the  collection  will  be  referred  to  as  a  letter  of  the  alphabet.  The  integer 
K  is  called  the  size  of  the  alphabet.  A  letter  is  transmitted  over  the 
channel  by  presenting  in  order  to  the  channel  input  the  sequence  of  n 
zeros  and  ones  that  comprise  the  letter.  A  detection  scheme  or  detector  for 


INPUT  X  OUTPUT 


Fig.  1  —  The  symmetric  binary  channel. 


A   CLASS   OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS 


205 


a  given  /v-letter,  n-place  alphabet  is  a  procedure  for  producing  a  sequence 
of  letters  of  the  alphabet  from  the  channel  output. 

Throughout  this  paper  we  shall  assume  that  signaling  is  accomplished 
with  a  given  /i-letter,  n-place  alphabet  by  choosing  the  letters  of  the 
alphabet  for  transmission  independently  with  equal  probability   l/K. 

Shannon^  has  shown  that  for  sufficiently  large  n,  there  exist  K-letter, 
n-place  alphabets  and  detection  schemes  that  signal  over  the  symmetric 
binary  chaimel  at  a  rate  R  >  C  —  e  for  arbitrary  £  >  0  and  such  that 
the  probability  of  error  in  the  letters  of  the  detector  output  is  less  than 
any  5  >  0.  Here  C  is  given  by  (1)  and  is  shown  as  a  function  of  p  in 
Fig.  2.  No  algorithm  is  known  (other  than  exhaustvie  procedures)  for 
the  construction  of  A'-letter,  /i-place  alphabets  satisfying  the  above 
inequalities  for  arbitrary  positive  8  and  e  except  in  the  trivial  cases  C  —  0 
and  C  =  1. 

1.2   THE   GROUP   -S„ 

There  are  a  totality  of  2"  different  w-place  binary  sequences.  It  is  fre- 
quently convenient  to  consider  these  sequences  as  the  vertices  of  a  cube 
of  unit  edge  in  a  Euclidean  space  of  n-dimensions.  For  example  the  5- 
place  sequence  0,  1,  0,  0,  1  is  associated  with  the  point  in  5-space  whose 


o.e 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


Fig.  2  —  The  capacity  of  the  symmetric  binary  channel. 
C  =  1  +  p  log2  p  +  {I  -  p)  log2  (1  -  p) 


206 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


coordinates  are  (0,  1,  0,  0,  1).  For  convenience  of  notation  we  shall  gen- 
erally omit  commas  in  writing  a  sequence.  The  above  5-place  sequence 
will  be  written,  for  example,  01001. 

We  define  the  product  of  two  n-ylace  hinarij  sequences,  aicii  •  •  •  a„  and 
^1^2  •  ■  •  bn  as  the  n-place  binary  sequence 

fli  +  hi  ,         a-i  ■]-  h-i  ,  ■  ■  •  ,  ttn  +  hn 

Here  the  a's  and  6's  are  zero  or  one  and  the  +  sign  means  addition 
modulo  2.  (That  is  0  +  0=1  +  1  =  0,  0+1  =  1+0=1) 
For  example,  (01101)  (00111)  =  01010.  With  this  rule  of  multiplication 
the  2"  w-place  binary  sequences  form  an  Abelian  group  of  order  2". 
The  elements  of  the  group,  denoted  by  Ti  ,  T'2 ,  •  •  •  ,  Tin,  say,  are  the 
n-place  binary  sequences ;  the  identity  element  I  is  the  sequence  000  •  •  •  0 
and 

IT,  =  Til  =  T.  ■        T,Tj  =  TjTr,        TiiTjT,)  =  iTiTj)Tk  ; 

the  product  of  any  number  of  elements  is  again  an  element;  every  ele- 
ment is  its  own  reciprocal,  Ti  =  Tf^,  TI  =  /.  We  denote  this  group 
by  Bn  . 

All  subgroups  of  Bn  are  of  order  2   where  k  is  an  integer  from  the  set 
0,  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  n.  There  are  exactly 


N{n,  k)  = 


(2"  -  2")  (2"  -  2')  (2"  -  2')  •  •  •  (2"  -  2'-') 


(2^  -  2»)(2'^  -  20(2*  -  22) 
=  N(n,  n  —  k) 


{2"  -  2'-') 


(2) 


distinct  subgroups  of  Bn  of  order  2  .  Some  values  of  N(n,  k)  are  given  in 
Table  I. 


Table  I  — Some  Values  of  A^(n,  k),  the  Number  of  Subgroups 
OF  Bn  OF  Order  2''.  N(n,  k)   =  N{n,  n  —  k) 


n\k 

0 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

2 

3 

1 

3 

7 

7 

1 

4 

15 

35 

15 

1 

5 

31 

155 

155 

31 

1 

6 

63 

651 

1395 

651 

63 

7 

127 

2667 

IISU 

11811 

2667 

8 

255 

10795 

97155 

200787 

97155 

9 

511 

43435 

788035 

3309747 

3309747 

10 

1023 

174251 

6347715 

53743987 

109221651 

000 

000 

000 

000 

000 

000 

000 

100 

100 

100 

010 

010 

001 

no 

010 

001 

oil 

001 

101 

no 

on 

110 

101 

111 

on 

111 

111 

101 

A   CLASS   OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  207 

1.3   GROUP   ALPHABETS 

An  ?i-place  group  alphabet  is  a  7v-letter,  n-place  binary  signaling  alpha- 
bet whose  letters  form  a  subgroup  of  Bn  .  Of  necessity  the  size  of  an 
n-place  group  alphabet  is  /v  =  2  where  k  is  an  integer  satisfying  0  ^ 
k  ^  n.  By  an  (n,  k)-alphahet  we  shall  mean  an  n-place  group  alphabet  of 
size  2^.  Example:  the  N{3,  2)  =  7  distinct  (3,  2)-alphabets  are  given  by 
the  seven  columns 

(i)  (ii)  (iii)  (iv)  (v)  (vi)  (vii) 


(3) 


1.4      STANDARD   ARRAYS 

Let  the  letters  of  a  specific  (n,  /i:)-alphabet  be  Ai  =  /  =  00  •  •  •  0, 
Ao  ,  As  ,  •  ■  ■  ,  A^  ,  where  ju  =  2  .  The  group  Bn  can  be  developed  accord- 
ing to  this  subgroup  and  its  cosets: 

/,  A2,  A3,      ■■•  ,A^ 

S2 ,        S2A2 ,        S2A3 ,  •  •  •  ,  S2A^ 
Sz ,         S3A2 ,        S3A3 ,  •  •  •  ,  SsA^ 

Bn    =        ;  (4) 

Sr  f        SyA2 ,        SpAz ,  • '  •  ,  SfAfi 

In  this  array  every  element  of  Bn  appears  once  and  only  once.  The  col- 
lection of  elements  in  any  row  of  this  array  is  called  a  coset  of  the  (n,  k)- 
alphabet.  Here  *S2  is  any  element  of  B„  not  in  the  first  row  of  the  array, 
S3  is  any  element  of  Bn  not  in  the  first  two  rows  of  the  array,  etc.  The 
elements  S2 ,  S3 ,  •  •  •  ,  Sy  appearing  under  I  in  such  an  array  will  be 
called  the  coset  leaders. 

If  a  coset  leader  is  replaced  by  any  element  in  the  coset,  the  same  coset 
will  result.  That  is  to  say  the  two  collections  of  elements 

Si ,         ^1^2 ,         SiSz ;  ■  •  ■  ,  SiA^ 

and 

SiA,,  ,        (SiAu)A2 ,        (SiAMs  ,■■■  {SiAk)A, 

are  the  same. 


208  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    195G 

We  define  the  weight  Wi  =  w{Ti)  of  an  element,  Ti ,  of  Bn  to  be  the 
number  of  ones  in  the  n-place  binary  sequence  T,- . 

Henceforth,  unless  otherwise  stated,  we  agree  in  dealing  with  an  ar- 
ray such  as  (4)  to  adopt  the  following  convention: 

the  leader  of  each  coset  shall  be  taken  to  be  an  .  . 

element  of  minimal  weight  in  that  coset. 

Such  a  table  will  be  called  a  standard  array. 

Example:  Bi  can  be  developed  according  to  the  (4,  2)-alphabet  0000, 
1100,  0011,  nil  as  follows 


(6) 


0000 

1100 

0011 

nil 

1010 

Olio 

1001 

0101 

1110 

0010 

1101 

0001 

1000 

0100 

1011 

0111 

)W"ever, 

^^-e  should 

write. 

for  exan 

0000 

1100 

0011 

nil 

1010 

0110 

1001 

0101 

0010 

1110 

0001 

1101 

1000 

0100 

1011 

0111 

(7) 


The  coset  leader  of  the  second  coset  of  (6)  can  be  taken  as  any  element 
of  that  row  since  all  are  of  weight  2.  The  leader  of  the  third  coset,  how- 
ever, should  be  either  0010  or  0001  since  these  are  of  weight  one.  The 
leader  of  the  fourth  coset  should  be  either  1000  or  0100. 

1.5  THE   DETECTION    SCHEME 

Consider  now  communicating  with  an  (n,  fc) -alphabet  over  the  sym- 
metric binary  channel.  When  any  letter,  say  A,,  of  the  alphabet  is 
transmitted,  the  received  sequence  can  be  of  any  element  of  B„  .  We 
agree  to  use  the  following  detector: 

if  the  received  element  of  Bn  lies  in  column  i  of  the  array  (4),  the 

detector  prints  the  letter  Ai  ,i  =  1,2,  •  •  •  ,  ju.  The  array  (4)  is  to  (8) 

be  constructed  according  to  the  convention  (5). 

The  following  propositions  and  theorems  can  be  proved  concerning 
signaling  with  an  (n,  /c)-alphabet  and  the  detection  scheme  given  by  (8). 

1.6  BEST  DETECTOR  AND  SYMMETRIC  SIGNALING 

Define  the  probability  /,•  =  ((Ti)  of  an  element  Ti  of  Bn  to  be  A  = 
^wi^n-uf  ^yYiere  p  and  q  are  as  in  (1)  and  Wi  is  the  weight  of  Ti .  Let 


A   CLASS   OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  209 

Qi ,  i  =  1 ,  2,  •  •  •  ,  jLi  be  the  sum  of  the  probabilities  of  the  elements  in 
the  iih.  column  of  the  standard  array  (4). 

Proposition  1.  The  probability  that  any  transmitted  letter  of  the 
(n,  A;) -alphabet  be  produced  correctly  by  the  detector  is  Qi  . 

Proposition  2.  The  equivocation^  per  symbol  is 


1    ** 
Hy{x)  =  —  S  Qi  log2  Qi 


n  i=i 

Theorem  1 .  The  detector  (8)  is  a  maximum  likelihood  detector.  That 
is,  for  the  given  alphabet  no  other  detection  scheme  has  a  greater  average 
probability  that  a  transmitted  letter  be  produced  correctly  by  the  de- 
tector. 

Let  us  return  to  the  geometrical  picture  of  w-place  binary  sequences 
as  vertices  of  a  unit  cube  in  n-space.  The  choice  of  a  i^-letter,  n-place 
alphabet  corresponds  to  designating  K  particular  vertices  as  letters. 
Since  the  binary  sequence  corresponding  to  any  vertex  can  be  produced 
by  the  channel  output,  any  detector  must  consist  of  a  set  of  rules  that 
associates  various  vertices  of  the  cube  with  the  vertices  designated  as 
letters  of  the  alphabet.  We  assume  that  every  vertex  is  associated  with 
some  letter.  The  vertices  of  the  cube  are  divided  then  into  disjoint  sets, 
Wi ,  Wi ,  •  •  •  ,  Wk  where  Wi  is  the  set  of  vertices  associated  with  tth 
letter  of  the  signaling  alphabet.  A  maximum  likelihood  detector  is  char- 
acterized by  the  fact  that  every  vertex  in  Wi  is  as  close  to  or  closer  to 
the  iih.  letter  than  to  any  other  letter,  i  =  1,2,  •  •  •  ,  K.  For  group  alpha- 
bets and  the  detector  (8),  this  means  that  no  element  in  the  iih.  column 
of  array  (4)  is  closer  to  any  other  A  than  it  is  to  ^i ,  z  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  ;u. 

Theorem  2.  Associated  with  each  {n,  /(;)-alphabet  considered  as  a  point 
configuration  in  Euclidean  n-space,  there  is  a  group  of  n  X  n  orthogonal 
matrices  which  is  transitive  on  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  and  which 
leaves  the  unit  cube  invariant.  The  maximum  likelihood  sets  1^1  , 
W2 ,  •  •  •  Wn  are  all  geometrically  similar. 

Stated  in  loose  terms,  this  theorem  asserts  that  in  an  (n,  A;)-alphabet 
every  letter  is  treated  the  same.  Every  two  letters  have  the  same  number 
of  nearest  neighbors  associated  with  them,  the  same  number  of  next 
nearest  neighbors,  etc.  The  disposition  of  points  in  any  two  W  regions 
is  the  same. 

1.7  GROUP  ALPHABETS  AND  PARITY  CHECKS 

Theorem  3.  Every  group  alphabet  is  a  systematic^  code:  every  syste- 
matic code  is  a  group  alphabet. 


210  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

We  prefer  to  use  the  word  "alphabet"  in  place  of  "code"  since  the 
latter  has  many  meanings.  In  a  systematic  alphabet,  the  places  in  any 
letter  can  be  divided  into  two  classes :  the  information  places  —  A;  in 
number  for  an  (n,  /c)-alphabet  —  and  the  check  positions.  All  letters 
have  the  same  information  places  and  the  same  check  places.  If  there 
are  k  information  places,  these  may  be  occupied  by  any  of  the  2  /v-place 
binary  sequences.  The  entries  in  the  n  —  k  check  positions  are  fixed 
linear  (mod  2)  combinations  of  the  entries  in  the  information  positions. 
The  rules  by  which  the  entries  in  the  check  places  are  determined  are 
called  parity  checks.  Examples:  for  the  (4,  2)-alphabet  of  (6),  namely 
0000,  1100,  0011,  nil,  positions  2  and  3  can  be  regarded  as  the  informa- 
tion positions.  If  a  letter  of  the  alphabet  is  the  sequence  aia^a^ai ,  then 
ai  =  a2 ,  tti  =  az  are  the  parity  checks  determining  the  check  places  1 
and  4.  For  the  (5,  3)-alphabet  00000,  10001,  01011,  00111,  11010,  10110, 
01100,  11101  places  1,  2,  and  3  (numbered  from  the  left)  can  be  taken 
as  the  information  places.  If  a  general  letter  of  the  alphabet  is  aiazazaiai , 
then  a4  =  a2  -j-  as ,  Ob  =  ai  -j-  a2  -|-  ^3 . 

Two  group  alphabets  are  called  equivalent  if  one  can  be  obtained  from 
the  other  by  a  permutation  of  places.  Example:  the  7  distinct  (3,  2)- 
alphabets  given  in  (3)  separate  into  three  equivalence  classes.  Alpha- 
bets (i),  (ii),  and  (iv)  are  equivalent;  alphabets  (iii),  (v),  (vi),  are  equiva- 
lent; (vii)  is  in  a  class  by  itself. 

Proposition  S.  Equivalent  (n,  fc) -alphabets  have  the  same  probability 
Qi  of  correct  transmission  for  each  letter. 

Proposition  4-  Every  (n,  /c) -alphabet  is  equivalent  to  an  (n,  k)- 
alphabet  whose  first  k  places  are  information  places  and  whose  last  n  —  k 
places  are  determined  by  parity  checks  over  the  first  k  places. 

Henceforth  we  shall  be  concerned  only  with  (n.  A;) -alphabets  w^hose 
first  k  places  are  information  places.  The  parity  check  rules  can  then 
be  written 

k 
ai  =  S  Tij-ay  ,         t  =  /b  -j-  1,  •  •  •  ,  n  (9) 

where  the  sums  are  of  course  mod  2.  Here,  as  before,  a  typical  letter  of 
the  alphabet  is  the  sequence  aia^  •  ■  -  ttn  .  The  jn  are  k(n  —  k)  quantities, 
zero  or  one,  that  serve  to  define  the  particular  (n,  A;)-alphabet  in  question. 

1.8   MAXIMUM  LIKELIHOOD  DETECTION  BY  PARITY  CHECKS 

For  any  element,  J\  of  Bn  we  can  form  the  sum  given  on  the  right  of 
(9).  This  sum  maj^  or  may  not  agree  with  the  symbol  in  the  ?'th  place  of 


A    CLASS   OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  211 

T.  If  it  does,  we  say  T  satisfies  the  tth-place  parity  check;  otherwise  T 
fails  the  zth-place  parity  check.  When  a  set  of  parity  check  rules  (9)  is 
giN'cii,  we  can  associate  an  (n  —  /i^-place  binary  sequence,  R{T),  with 
each  element  T  of  5„.  We  examine  each  check  place  of  T  in  order  starting 
with  the  (k  -\-  1  )-st  place  of  T.  We  write  a  zero  if  a  place  of  T  satisfies 
the  parity  check;  we  write  a  one  if  a  place  fails  the  parity  check.  The  re- 
sultant sequence  of  zeros  and  ones,  written  from  left  to  right  is  R(T). 
We  call  R(T)  the  parity  check  sequence  of  T.  Example:  with  the  parity 
rules  04  =  02  -j-  03  ,  05  =  Oi  -j-  02  -j-  c^s  used  to  define  the  (5,  3)-alphabet 
in  the  examples  of  Theorem  3,  we  find  i?(11000)  =  10  since  the  sum  of 
the  entries  in  the  second  and  third  places  of  11001  is  not  the  entry  of 
the  fourth  place  and  since  the  sum  of  Oi  =  1,  02  =  1,  and  03  =  0  is 
0  =  05  . 

Theorem  4-  Let  I,  A2 ,  •  •  •  ^^^  be  an  {n,  /c)-alphabet.  Let  R{T)  be  the 
parity  check  sequence  of  an  element  T  of  B„  formed  in  accordance  with 
the  parity  check  rules  of  the  (n,  /c) -alphabet.  Then  R(Ti)  =  R(T2)  if 
and  only  if  Ti  and  T2  lie  in  the  same  row  of  array  (4).  The  coset  leaders 
can  be  ordered  so  that  R{Si)  is  the  binary  symbol  for  the  integer  i  —  1. 

As  an  example  of  Theorem  4  consider  the  (4,  2)-alphabet  shown  with 
its  cosets  below 


0000 

1011 

0101 

1110 

0100 

nil 

0001 

1010 

0010 

1001 

0111 

1100 

1000 

0011 

1101 

0110 

The  parity  check  rules  for  this  alphabet  are  03  =  oi  ,  04  =  Oi  -j-  ^2  • 
Every  element  of  the  second  row  of  this  array  satisfies  the  parity  check 
in  the  third  place  and  fails  the  parity  check  in  the  4th  place.  The  parity 
check  sequence  for  the  second  row  is  01.  The  parity  check  for  the  third 
row  is  10,  and  for  the  fourth  row  11.  Since  every  letter  of  the  alphabet 
satisfies  the  parity  checks,  the  parity  check  sequence  for  the  first  row  is 
00.  We  therefore  make  the  following  association  between  parity  check 
sequences  and  coset  leaders 

00  -^  0000   =   Si 

01  -^  0100   =   S2 

10  -^  0010  =   S, 

11  -^  1000  =   ^4 

1.9  INSTRUMENTING   A    GROUP   ALPHABET 

Proposition  4  attests  to  the  ease  of  the  encoding  operation  involved 


212  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

with  the  use  of  an  (n,  fc) -alphabet.  If  the  original  message  is  presented  as 
a  long  sequence  of  zeros  and  ones,  the  sequence  is  broken  into  blocks  of 
length  k  places.  Each  block  is  used  as  the  first  k  places  of  a  letter  of 
the  signaling  alphabet.  The  last  n-k  places  of  the  letter  are  determined 
by  fixed  parity  checks  over  the  first  k  places. 

Theorem  4  demonstrates  the  relative  ease  of  instrumenting  the  maxi- 
mum hkelihood  detector  (8)  for  use  with  an  (n.  A:) -alphabet.  When  an 
element  T  of  Bn  is  received  at  the  channel  output,  it  is  subjected  to  the 
n-k  parity  checks  of  the  alphabet  being  used.  This  results  in  a  parity 
check  sequence  R{T).  R(T)  serves  to  identify  a  unique  coset  leader,  say 
Si .  The  product  SiT  is  then  formed  and  produced  as  the  detector  out- 
put. The  probability  that  this  be  the  correct  letter  of  the  alphabet  is  Qi  . 

1.10   BEST   GROUP   ALPHABETS 

Two  important  questions  regarding  (n,  fc)-alphabets  naturally  arise. 
What  is  the  maximum  value  of  Qi  possible  for  a  given  n  and  k  and  which 
of  the  N(n,  k)  different  subgroups  give  rise  to  this  maximum  Qi?  The 
answers  to  these  questions  for  general  n  and  k  are  not  known.  For  many 
special  values  of  n  and  k  the  answers  are  known.  They  are  presented  in 
Tables  II,  III  and  IV,  which  are  explained  below. 

The  probability  Qi  that  a  transmitted  letter  be  produced  correctly  by 
the  detector  is  the  sum,  Qi  =  ^i  f{Si)  of  the  probabilities  of  the  coset 
leaders.  This  sum  can  be  rewritten  as  Qi  =  2Zi=o  ««  P^Q^~^  where  a,  is 
the  number  of  coset  leaders  of  weight  i.  One  has,  of  course,  ^a,  =  v  = 

/  y)  \  T?  ' 

2^"''  for  an  (n,  /(;)-alphabet.  Also  «>  ^  (  .  )  =  -7-7 — '■ — n- !  since  this  is  the 

\t  /       tlin  —  t) 

number  of  elements  of  Bn  of  weight  i. 

The  (Xi  have  a  special  physical  significance.  Due  to  the  noise  on  the 
channel,  a  transmitted  letter,  A,  ,  of  an  (n,  /c)-alphabet  will  in  general  be 
received  at  the  channel  output  as  some  element  T  of  Bn  different  from 
Ai  .li  T  differs  from  Ai  in  s  places,  i.e.,  if  w{AiT)  =  s,  we  say  that  an 
s-tuple  error  has  occurred.  For  a  given  (n,  fc)-alphabet,  ai  is  the  number 
of  i-tuple  errors  which  can  be  corrected  by  the  alphabet  in  question, 
i  =  0,  1,2,  ■  •  •  ,  n. 

Table  II  gives  the  a{  corresponding  to  the  largest  possible  value  of  Qi 
for  a  given  k  and  ?i  for  k  =  2,3,  •••w—  l,n  =  4---  ,10  along  with  a 
few  other  scattered  values  of  n  and  k.  For  reference  the  binomial  coeffi- 
cients (  .  )  are  also  listed.  For  example,  we  find  from  Table  II  that  the 
best  group  alphabet  with  2    =16  letters  that  uses  n  =  10  places  has  a 


A    CLASS    OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  213 

1 A  Q  C        'J  **        Q 

probability  of  correct  transmission  Qi  =  q  +  lOg  p  +  39g  p"  +  l-Ag'p  . 
The  alphabet  corrects  all  10  possible  single  errors.  It  corrects  39  of  the 

possible  f  .^  j  =  45  double  errors  (second  column  of  Table  II)  and  in 

addition  corrects  14  of  the  120  possible  triple  errors.  By  adding  an  addi- 
tional place  to  the  alphabet  one  obtains  with  the  best  (11,  4)-alphabet 
an  alphabet  with  16  letters  that  corrects  all  11  possible  single  errors  and 
all  55  possible  double  errors  as  well  as  61  triple  errors.  Such  an  alphabet 
might  be  useful  in  a  computer  representing  decimal  numbers  in  binary 
form. 

For  each  set  of  a's  listed  in  Table  II,  there  is  in  Table  III  a  set  of 
parity  check  rules  which  determines  an  {n,  A)-alphabet  having  the  given 
a's.  The  notation  used  in  Table  III  is  best  explained  by  an  example.  A 
(10,  4)-alphabet  which  realizes  the  a's  discussed  in  the  preceding  para- 
graph can  be  obtained  as  follows.  Places  1,  2,  3,  4  carrj-  the  information. 
Place  5  is  determined  to  make  the  mod  2  sum  of  the  entries  in  places 
3,  4,  and  5  ecjual  to  zero.  Place  6  is  determined  by  a  similar  parity  check 
on  places  1,  2,  3,  and  6;  place  7  by  a  check  on  places  1,  2,  4,  and  7,  etc. 

It  is  a  surprising  fact  that  for  all  cases  investigated  thus  far  an  {n,  k)- 
alphabet  best  for  a  given  value  of  p  is  uniformly  best  for  all  values  of 
p,  0  ^  p  ^  1 2.  It  is  of  course  conjectured  that  this  is  true  for  all  n  and  /,-. 

It  is  a  further  (perhaps)  surprising  fact  that  the  best  {n,  fc) -alphabets 
are  not  necessarily  those  with  greatest  nearest  neighbor  distance  be- 
tween letters  when  the  alphabets  are  regarded  as  point  configurations  on 
the  n-cube.  For  example,  in  the  best  (7,  3)-alphabet  as  listed  in  Table 
III,  each  letter  has  two  nearest  neighbors  distant  3  edges  away.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  the  (7,  3)-alphabet  given  by  the  parity  check  rules  413, 
512,  623,  7123  each  letter  has  its  nearest  neighbors  4  edges  away.  This 
latter  alphabet  does  not  have  as  large  a  value  of  Qi ,  however,  as  does 
the  (7,  3)-alphabet  listed  on  Table  III. 

The  cases  /.;  =  0,  1,  /?  —  1,  n  have  not  been  listed  in  Tables  II  and  III. 
The  cases  k  =  0  and  k  =  n  are  completely  trivial.  For  k  =  1,  all  n  >  1 
the  best  alphabet  is  obtained  using  the  parity  rule  a>  =  03=  •  •  •  = 
a„  =  oi  .  If  n  =  '2j, 

If  n  =  2j  +  1,  Qi  =  i:  (^')  pY-\ 

For  k  =  n  —  1,  /;  >  1.  the  maximum  Qi  is  Qi  =  g"~  and  a  parity  rule 
for  an  alphabet  realizing  this  Qi  is  o„  =  oi . 

If  the  a's  of  an  (/<,  A)-alphabet  are  of  the  form  a,  =  (  .  j ,  i  =  0,  1, 


214  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 


Table  II  —  Probability  of  No  Error  with  Best 
Alphabets,  Qi  =   2Z  «»P*2"~' 


(?) 

k   =  2 

k  =   3 

k  =   4 

k  =  5 

k  =  6 

k   =  7 

k  =  8 

k  =  9 

*  =  10 

i 
0 

ai 

(li 

a 

a, 

ai 

Oi 

fli 

ai 

a; 

n  =  4 

1 

1 

1 

4 

3 

0 

1 

1 

1 

n  =   5 

1 

2 
0 

5 
10 

1 

5 
2 

1 

3 

1 

1 

71  =  6 

1 
2 

6 
15 

6 
9 

6 
1 

3 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

n  =  7 

1 
2 
3 

7 
21 
25 

7 

18 

6 

7 
8 

7 

3 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

n   =  8 

1 
2 
3 

8 
28 
56 

8 
28 
27 

8 

20 

3 

8 

7 

7 

3 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

7 

3 

n  =  9 

2 
3 

4 

36 

84 

126 

36 
64 

18 

33 
21 

22 

6 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

7 

3 

n  =  10 

2 
3 

4 

45 
120 
210 

45 

110 

90 

45 
64 

8 

39 
14 

21 

5 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

7 

3 

n  =  11 

2 
3 
4 
5 

55 
165 
330 

462 

55 
165 
226 

54 

55 

126 

63 

55 

61 

20 

4 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

12 

12 

12 

12 

12 

7 

3 

n  =  12 

2 
3 
4 
5 

66 
220 
495 
792 

66 
220 
425 
300 

66 
200 
233 

19 

3 

A    CLASS    OF   BINARY   SIGNALIHG    ALPHABETS  215 

2,  •  •  •  ,  j,  «j+i  =  f  some  integer,  aj+o  =  ay+s  =  •  •  •  =  «„  =  0,  then 
there  does  not  exist  a  2  -letter,  w-place  alphabet  of  any  sort  better  than 
the  given  (n,  A)-alphabet.  It  will  be  observed  that  many  of  the  a's  of 
Table  II  are  of  this  form.  It  can  be  shown  that 

Proposition  5  ii  n  -\-  I       „       /"t"!       q       1^2"^*  —  1  there  exists 

no  2'''-letter,  n-place  alphabet  better  than  the  best  (n,  /c) -alphabet. 
When  the  inequality  of  proposition  5  holds  the  a's  are  either  «o  =  1, 

""''  -  1,  all  other  «  =  0;  or  ao  =  1,  «i  =  (Vj  ,  «2  =  2"~'  -  1  - 

,  all  other  a  =  0;  or  the  trivial  ao  =  1  all  other  a  =  0  which  holds 

uhen  k  =  n.  The  region  of  the  n  —  k  plane  for  which  it  is  known  that 
(n,  A-)-alphabets  cannot  be  excelled  by  any  other  is  shown  in  Table  IV. 

1.11    A   DETAILED    EXAMPLE 

As  an  example  of  the  use  of  {n,  A") -alphabets  consider  the  not  un- 
realistic case  of  a  channel  with  -p  =  0.001,  i.e.,  on  the  average  one  binary 
digit  per  thousand  is  received  incorrectly.  Suppose  we  wish  to  transmit 
messages  using  32  different  letters.  If  we  encode  the  letters  into  the  32 
5-place  binary  sequences  and  transmit  these  sequences  without  further 
encoding,  the  probability  that  a  received  letter  be  in  error  is  1  — 
(1  _  pf  =  0.00449.  If  the  best  (10,  5)-alphabet  as  shown  in  Tables  II 
and  III  is  used,  the  probability  that  a  letter  be  wrong  is  1  —  Qi  = 
1  -  r/"  -  lOgV  -  21gy  -  24/)'  -  72p'  +  •  •  •  =  0.000024.  Thus 
by  reducing  the  signaling  rate  by  ^^,  a  more  than  one  hundredfold  re- 
duction in  probability  of  error  is  accomplished. 

A  (10,  5)-alphabet  to  achieve  these  results  is  given  in  Table  III.  Let 
a  typical  letter  of  the  alphabet  be  the  10-place  sequence  of  binary  digits 
aia2  ■  •  •  agttio  .  The  symbols  aia^Ozaia^  carry  the  information  and  can  be 
any  of  32  different  arrangements  of  zeros  and  ones.  The  remaining  places 
are  determined  by 

06  =  ai  -j-  a-i  -j-  a4  -j-  ^5 

a?  =  tti  -j-  oo  -f  a4  -j-  as 

as  =  ai  -j-  a2  +  a.3  +  Os 

ag  =  Oi  +  02  4-  Qi  -j-  0,4 

Oio  =  Oi  +  a-i  -j-  03  4-  04  4-  «5 

To  design  the  detector  for  this  alphabet,  it  is  first  necessary  to  deter- 
mine the  coset  leaders  for  a  standard  array  (4)  formed  for  this  alphabet. 


•Jl 

t-l 

a 
pa 
< 
M 

Ph 
< 

cc 

o 

H 


O 

H 

ti; 
O 

H 

I— I 

-< 
Ph 


P3 


t^  00 


-f  ^  cc 

CC  C^)  !M 


O  t^  X 


lO  a;  t^  oc 


00  C2 


^  ^  CC 
CC  (N  C^l 


t-  GC 


lO  ic  lO  -r 

-f  -^  CC  CT 
CC  C^  CM  C^I 

;C  1^  X  c: 


^ 

cc  -+ 

-f  -^  cc 

-f  -^  cc  cc 

-r  -^  cc  re  cc 

(M  <N 

CC  C^  CM 

CC  CM  CM  CM 

re  T-l  CM  CM  CM 

ic  :c  I-  y:  — 


i 


re  cc 

CO 

ce 

C^l  cc 

CM  cc  re 

re  C^J  CM  CM 

CM  re  re  c^i 

CM  re  re  CM 

^—    .-H 

.-H  -—  C^l 

_  ,_  —  ,-H 

r—  ^-  T-H  (M  ,— . 

T-^  CM  ^  ^  CM  -^ 

'^^  lo 

•^  lO  « 

-*  iC  <£)  t^ 

•^  lO  CO  t^  oc 

"*  >OCD  t^OO  C5 

C^l 


ex 

re 


C^l  CM  C^l 

re-rocot^      ce-^iocot^oc 


C^l  C^l 


'  >o 


re  f  lO  CO 


re  T  lO  CO  t^  oC' 


iCi 


CO 


oc 


210 


1—1  1—1 

^CM 

1-H  1-H 

cO'f  -* 

CM  CM  CO 

1-1 1-l 

T— 1  1-H  1-H 

Ot-h 

Oi-HCM 

1—1 1—1 

I-H  1-H  1-H 

00 

^cot-oo 

^^iCiO 

134 

0  124 

1  123 

12351 

0  123 

1  124 
2134 

Ol  ^ 

01  .—1 1—1 

"^  1-H  1-H  1-H 

r^ 

t-  t-  t^ 

coco 

CO  CO  lO 

•^iO-* 

^^10^-^ 

CO 

"^^00  CO 

"''^  CO  CO  CO 

-*  't<  jvj 

^'*(N^ 

'^'*  CM  CM  CM 

CO(M^ 

«^^^ 

COCM^^^ 

^-^o 

-^-^O-H 

^'~'  0--HCM 

GOO-J  T-1 

00  01 1-1 1—1 

00  02  1-H  1-H  1-H 

CO 

CO  iC 

^-t 

OCOCO^^ 

iOiO>Oj^ 

'^'^'^coco 

-^-^^0^ 

'^'^^cacM 

CO!M  C^  ^ 

CO  <M  CM  ^  ^ 

T— I   1-H   T-H    _^ 

1— 1  1 — 1  r— *    -^ 

o 

C  "—1 

t^  00  o  i-H 

t^  00  C5  1— 1  >— 1 

iCi 

'I* 

lOiOiO'*^  j^ 

•r-^  c^cc  ^ 

CO  CM  iM  O)  ^ 

CO  t^  00  02  ^ 

•* 

^ 

CO 

^co 

CO^  ^  -* 

CM 

'^'cOCM 

'f  CM  (M  CO  CO 

CO  ^  "*  coco  j^ 

1— H 

CO   T-H   1— 1   ^H   C^l 

0 

1— 1  CM  r-(  CM  .-<  ^ 

1— 1 

10  CO  t^  00  cr. 

10  CO  t^  00  0  rH 

1-H 

CO 

coco 

CO  CO 

CM 

(N  (M 

CO  CM  CM 

CI  CO  CO 

r— 1 

coco  CM 

T—l 

T~i 

o*o*c<i^^^ 

1— 1   CM   CO   r- 1   .— 1 

CM 

0 

1— ( 

CO  CO  CM  1-1  1—1  1—1 

0 

1-H 

^  CM  CO  -1  1-H  -H  ^  ^  ^ 

^lOfOi^ccoi 

•^  lO  CO  t^  00  Ci 

I— 1 

1— 1 

rflOCOt^OOOli-Hi-Hi-H 

CM 

C^  C^l 

CM  CM  CM 

CM  (M 

!M 

T-H 

1—1 

1— t 

t— 1  1 — I 

1— 1  ^H  I— 1  CM  CM 

1-H 

T— t 

0 

r-i  .-<  i-H  CM  CM  CM 

1— t 

0 

1-H 

^  ^  ^  ^  CM  CM  CM  ^  ^  ^ 

CO  'tl  lO  CO  t^  00  05 

>— 1 

CO  ■*  10  CO  t>  00  Oi 

i-H 

r— ( 

CO-*lOCOt^00C2l-Hr-l^ 

0 

I-l 

CM 

T— 1 

1— ( 

1— t 

II 

II 

II 

e 

e 

e 

217 


218  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

Table  IV  —  Region  of  the  n-k  Plane  for  Which  it  is  Known 

THAT    [n,    fc)-ALPHABETS    CaNNOT   Be   EXCELLED 

k 

30 

29 

28  •  •  • 

27  .... 

26  

25  

24  

23  

22  

21  

20  

19  

18  

17  

16  

15  

14  

13  

12  

11  

10  

9  

8  

7  

6         

5        

4      

3     

2   

1 


\ 


0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  12  14  16  18  20  22  24  26  28  30  n 

This  can  be  done  by  a  \'ariety  of  special  methods  which  considerably 
reduce  the  obvious  labor  of  making  such  an  array.  A  set  of  best  »S's  along 
with  their  parity  check  symbols  is  given  in  Table  V. 

A  maximum  likelihood  detector  for  the  (10,  5)-alphabet  in  question 
forms  from  each  received  sequence  6162  •  •  •  &10  the  parity  check  symbol 
C1C2C3C4C5  where 

Ci  =  h  4-  ^h   4-  ^3  +  Ih  +  ^5 

C2  =  67  -(-  6i  -]-  h-i  +  hi  \-  Ih 

Cs  =  &8  +  ^^1  +  h  -j-  Ih  +  ^5 

Ci  =  bg  +  hi   4-  h-i  -i-  h-.i  -(-  hi 

C5   =    />in  +  hi  +   />,  +  h,  4-  hi  4-  65 

According  to  Table  V,  if  CiC-jCiAf'b  contains  less  than  three  ones,  the  de- 
tector should  brint  hih^kihih^  .  The  detector  should  piint  (/m  4-  1)^2^3^4'':. 
if  the  parity  check  sequence  C1C2C3C4C5  is  either  11111  oi-  11110;  the  dv- 


A    CLASS    OF    BINARY    SIGNALING    ALPHABETS 


219 


Table  V  —  Coset  Leaders  and  Parity  Check  Sequences 

FOR  (10, 5) -Alphabet 


ClCiCsCiCb 

^        s 

CIC2C3C4C6 

5 

00000 

0000000000 

11100 

0000100001 

10000 

0000010000 

11010 

0001000001 

01000 

0000001000 

11001 

0001000010 

00100 

0000000100 

10110 

0010000001 

00010 

0000000010 

10101 

0010000010 

00001 

0000000001 

10011 

OOIOOOOIOO 

1 1000 

0000011000 

OHIO 

0100000001 

10100 

0000010100 

01101 

0100000010 

10010 

0000010010 

01011 

0100000100 

10001 

0000010001 

00111 

0100001000 

01100 

0000001100 

11110 

1000000001 

01010 

0000001010 

11101 

OOOOIOOOOO 

01001 

0000001001 

11011 

OOOIOOOOOO 

00110 

0000000110 

10111 

0010000000 

00101 

0000000101 

01111 

0100000000 

00011 

0000000011 

mil 

1000000000 

tector  should  print  61(62  -j-  l)b3lhh^  if  the  parity  check  sequence  is  01111, 
00111,  01011,  01101,  or  OHIO;  the  detector  should  print  hMb-i  +  1)6465 
if  the  parity  check  sequence  is  10111,  10011,  10101,  or  10110;  the  de- 
tector should  print  616263(64  -j-  1)65  if  the  parity  check  sequence  is  11011, 
11001,  11010;  and  finally  the  detector  should  print  61626364(65  -j-  1)  if  the 
parity  check  sequence  is  11101  or  11100. 

Simpler  rules  of  operation  for  the  detector  may  possibly  be  obtained 
by  choice  of  a  different  set  of  S's  in  Table  V.  These  quantities  in  general 
are  not  unique.  Also  there  may  exist  non-equivalent  alphabets  with 
simpler  detector  rules  that  achieve  the  same  probability  of  error  as  the 
alphabet  in  question. 


I'vrt  II  —  Additional  Theory  and  Proofs  of  Theorems  of  Part  I 

'  2.1  the  abstract  group  Cn 

It  will  be  helpful  here  to  say  a  few  more  words  about  Br,  ,  the  group 

of  n-place  binary  sequences  under  the  operation  of  addition  mod  2.  This 

j  group  is  simply  isomorphic  with  the  abstract  group  Cn  generated  by  n 

\  commuting  elements  of  order  two,  say  ai,    a-2  ,  ■  ■  ■  ,  a„  .  Here  a,:ay  = 

<i,ai  and  a/  =  /,  i,  j  =  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  n,  where  /  is  the  identity  for  the 

group.  The  eight  distinct  elements  of  C3  are,  for  example,  /,  o-i  ,  a-y , 

(h  ,  (iici-,  ,  aio-.i  ,  a-itti  ,  aia-ittz .  The  group  C„  is  easily  seen  to  be  isomorphic 

I  with  the  Ai-fold  direct  product  of  the  group  Ci  with  itself. 


220  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

It  is  a  considerable  saving  in  notation  in  dealing  with  C„  to  omit  the 
symbol  "a"  and  write  only  the  subscripts.  In  this  notation  for  example, 
the  elements  of  d  are  7,  1,  2,  3,  4,  12,  13,  14,  23,  24,  34,  123,  124,  134, 
234,  1234.  The  product  of  two  or  more  elements  of  C„  can  readily  be 
written  down.  Its  symbol  consists  of  those  numerals  that  occur  an  odd 
number  of  times  in  the  collection  of  numerals  that  comprise  the  sym- 
bols of  the  factors.  Thus,  (12)(234)(123)  =  24. 

The  isomorphism  between  Cn  and  Bn  can  be  established  in  many  ways. 
The  most  convenient  way,  perhaps,  is  to  associate  with  the  element 
iii-2H  ■  ■  ■  ik  of  Cn  the  element  of  Bn  that  has  ones  in  places  ii  ,1-2,  •  •  •  ,  ik 
and  zeros  in  the  remaining  n  —  k  places.  For  example,  one  can  associate 
124  of  C4  with  1101  of  Bi  ;  14  with  1001,  etc.  In  fact,  the  numeral  no- 
tation afforded  by  this  isomorphism  is  a  much  neater  notation  for  Bn 
than  is  afforded  by  the  awkward  strings  of  zeros  and  ones.  There  are, 
of  course,  other  ways  in  which  elements  of  C„  can  be  paired  with  elements 
of  Bn  so  that  group  multiplication  is  preserved.  The  collection  of  all  such 
"pairings"  makes  up  the  group  of  automorphisms  of  C„ .  This  group  of 
automorphisms  of  Cn  is  isomorphic  with  the  group  of  non-singular  linear 
homogenous  transformations  in  a  field  of  characteristic  2. 

An  element  T  of  C„  is  said  to  be  dependent  upon  the  set  of  elements 
Ti ,  T2 ,  •  •  ■  ,  Tj  oi  Cn  if  T  can  be  expressed  as  a  product  of  some  ele- 
ments of  the  set  Ti  ,  T2 ,  •  •  •  ,  Tj ;  otherwise,  T  is  said  to  be  independent 
of  the  set.  A  set  of  elements  is  said  to  be  independent  if  no  member  can 
be  expressed  solely  in  terms  of  the  other  members  of  the  set.  For  example, 
in  Cs ,  1,  2,  3,  4  form  a  set  of  independent  elements  as  do  likewise  2357, 
12357,  14.  However,  135  depends  upon  145,  3457,  57  since  135  = 
(145)  (3457) (57).  Clearly  any  set  of  n  independent  elements  of  Cn  can 
be  taken  as  generators  for  the  group.  For  example,  all  possible  products 
formed  of  12,  123,  and  23  yield  the  elements  of  C3  . 

Any  k  independent  elements  of  C„  serve  as  generators  for  a  subgroup 
of  order  2*".  The  subgroup  so  generated  is  clearly  isomorphic  with  Ck  ■ 
All  subgroups  of  C„  of  order  2''  can  be  obtained  in  this  way. 

The  number  of  ways  in  which  k  independent  elements  can  be  chosen 
from  the  2"  elements  of  C„  is 

F{n,  k)  -  (2"  -  2'')(2"  -  2')(2"  -  2')  •  •  •  (2"  -  2'-') 

For,  the  first  element  can  be  chosen  in  2"  —  1  ways  (the  identity  cannot 
be  included  in  a  non-trivial  set  of  independent  elements)  and  the  second 
element  can  be  chosen  in  2"  —  2  ways.  These  two  elements  determine  a 
subgroup  of  order  2\  The  third  element  can  be  chosen  as  any  element  of 
the  remaining  2"  —  2"  elements.  The  3  elements  chosen  determine  a 


I 


A    CLASS    OF    BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  221 

subgroup  of  order  2l  A  fourth  independent  element  can  be  chosen  as 
any  of  the  remaining  2"  —  2  elements,  etc. 

Each  set  of  k  independent  elements  serves  to  generate  a  subgroup  of 
order  2''.  The  quantity  F{n,  k)  is  not,  however,  the  number  of  distinct 
subgroups  of  C„  of  this  order,  for,  a  given  subgroup  can  be  obtained 
from  many  different  sets  of  generators.  Indeed,  the  number  of  different 
sets  of  generators  that  can  generate  a  given  subgroup  of  order  2^  of  C„ 
is  just  F{k,  k)  since  any  such  subgroup  is  isomorphic  with  Ck  .  Therefore 
the  number  of  subgroups  of  Cn  of  order  2''  is  N{n,  k)  =  F(n,  k)/F(k,  k) 
which  is  (2).  A  simple  calculation  gives  N(n,  k)  =  N(n,  n  —  k). 

2.2    PROOF   OF   PROPOSITIONS    1    AND   2 

After  an  element  A  of  5„  has  been  presented  for  transmission  over 
a  noisy  binary  channel,  an  element  T  of  5„  is  produced  at  the  channel 
output.  The  element  U  =  AT  oi  Bn  serves  as  a  record  of  the  noise 
during  the  transmission.  U  is  an  n-place  binary  sequence  with  a  one  at 
each  place  altered  in  A  by  the  noise.  The  channel  output,  T,  is  obtained 
from  the  input  A  by  multiplication  by  U:  T  =  UA.  For  channels  of  the 
sort  under  consideration  here,  the  probability  that  U  be  any  particular 
element  of  Bn  of  w^eight  w  is  p^'g"""'. 

Consider  now  signaling  with  a  particular  (n,  /b) -alphabet  and  consider 
the  standard  array  (4)  of  the  alphabet.  If  the  detection  scheme  (8)  is 
used,  a  transmitted  letter  A  i  will  be  produced  without  error  if  and  only 
if  the  received  symbol  is  of  the  form  SjAi .  That  is,  there  will  be  no 
error  only  if  the  noise  in  the  channel  during  the  transmission  of  Ai  is 
represented  by  one  of  the  coset  leaders.  (This  applies  (or  i  =  1,2,  •  •  •  , 
fi  =  2  ).  The  probability  of  this  event  is  Qi  (Proposition  1,  Section  1.6). 
The  convention  (5)  makes  Qi  as  large  as  is  possible  for  the  given  alpha- 
bet. 

Let  X  refer  to  transmitted  letters  and  let  Y  refer  to  letters  produced 
by  the  detector.  We  use  a  vertical  bar  to  denote  conditions  when  writing 
probabilities.  The  quantity  to  the  right  of  the  bar  is  the  condition.  We 
suppose  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  to  be  chosen  independently  with 
ec^ual  probability  2"  . 

The  equivocation  h{X  \  Y)  obtained  when  using  an  (n,  fc)-alphabet 
with  the  detector  (8)  can  most  easily  be  computed  from  the  formula 

h(X  I  F)  =  h{X)  -  h(Y)  +  h(Y  I  X)  (10) 

The  entropy  of  the  source  is /i(X)  =  k/n  bits  per  symbol.  The  probability 
that  the  detector  produce  Aj  when  Ai  was  sent  is  the  probability  that 
the  noise  be  represented  by  AiAjSt ,  ^  =  1,2,  •  •  •  ,  v.  In  symbols, 


222  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

Pr{Y  -.  Ai  I  X  -^  Ad  =  Z  Pr{N  -^  AiA.Sc)  =  QiA^A,) 

where  Q{Ai)  is  the  sum  of  the  prol)abiUties  of  the  elements  that  are  in 
the  same  column  as  Ai  in  the  standard  array.  Therefore 

Pr{Y  ->  .4,)  =  E  Pr{Y  ->  A,  \  X  -^  AdPr{X  -^  A^  =  ^  E  QU,A,) 

=  4,        since  E  Q^A.A^  =  E  QUi)  =  1. 
This  last  follows  from  the  group  property  of  the  alphabet.  Therefore 

/i(lO  =  --  E  P>iy  -^  A,)  log  Pr{Y  -^  A,)  =  -  bits/symbol. 
n  n 

It  follows  then  from  (10)  that 

h{X  I  Y)  =  h(Y  I  X) 

The  computation  of  h(Y  \  X)  follows  readily  from  its  definition 

h{Y  I  X)  =  E  Prix  -^  AdhiY  \  X  -^  Ai) 

i 

=  -E  Prix  ->  AdPriY  -^  Aj  \  X  ->  Ai) 

log  PHY -^Aj  I  X-^Ai) 
=  -^,1211  PriN  ->AiScAj)  log  E  PriN  ->  AiS„,Aj) 


I 


=  -^,ZQiAiAj)'}ogQiAiAj) 

Zi       ij 

=  -  EQU,)logQ(A,) 

i 

Each  letter  is  n  binary  places.  Proposition  2,  then  follows. 

2.3   DISTANCE   AND   THE   PROOF   OF   THEOREM    1 

Let  A  and  B  be  two  elements  of  Bn  ■  We  define  the  distance,  diA,  B), 
between  A  and  B  to  be  the  weight  of  their  product, 

d{A,  B)  =  w(AB)  (11) 

The  distance  between  .4  and  B  is  the  number  of  places  in  which  A  and 
B  difTer  and  is  jnsl  the  "Hamming  distance."  ^  In  terms  of  the  n-cube, 
diA,  B)  is  Ihe  minimum  mmiber  of  edges  that  must  be  traversed  to  go 


A    CLASS   OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  223 

from  vertex  ^4  to  vertex  B.  The  distance  so  defined  is  a  monotone  fnne- 
tion  of  the  Euchdean  distance  between  vertices. 

It  follows  from  (11)  that  if  C  is  any  element  of  B„  then 

d{A,B)  =  cJ(A(\BC)  (12) 

This  fact  shows  the  detection  scheme  (8)  to  be  a  maximum  likelihood 
detector.  By  definition  of  a  standard  array,  one  has 

d(Si ,  I)  ^  d(S,Aj ,  I)  for  all  i  and  j 

The  coset  leaders  were  chosen  to  make  this  true.  From  (12), 

d(S,  ,  I)  =  d(SiA,„S,- ,  /  .4„.^S,)  =  d(SiA,n ,  A,„) 

d(SAj ,  /)  -  diS^AjSiAm  ,  I  SiAJ  =  diAjA,n ,  SiAr.) 

=  d{SiAm  ,  A() 

where  Af  =  AjA^  .  Substituting  these  expressions  in  the  inecjuality 
above  yields 

d(SiAm  ,  A„,)  ^  d(SiAm  ,  At)  for  all  i,  m,  I 

This  equation  says  that  an  arbitrary  element  in  the  array  (4)  is  at  least 
as  close  to  the  element  at  the  top  of  its  column  as  it  is  to  any  other  letter 
of  the  alphabet.  This  is  the  maximum  likelihood  property. 

2.4   PROOF   OF   THEOREM   2 

Again  consider  an  (n,  /c) -alphabet  as  a  set  of  vertices  of  the  unit  n-cube. 
Consider  also  n  mutually  perpendicular  hyperplanes  through  the  cen- 
troid  of  the  cube  parallel  to  the  coordinate  planes.  We  call  these  planes 
"symmetr}^  planes  of  the  cube"  and  suppose  the  planes  numbered  in 
accordance  with  the  corresponding  parallel  coordinate  planes. 

The  reflection  of  the  vertex  with  coordinates  (ai  ,  a^ ,  •  •  •  ,  a^ ,  •  •  •  ,  a,j) 
in  symmetry  plane  i  yields  the  vertex  of  the  cube  whose  coordinates 
are  (ai  ,  oo ,  ■  •  •  ,  a,  -j-  1,  •  •  •  ,  0,0 .  More  generally,  reflecting  a  given 
vertex  successively  in  symmetry  planes  i,  j,  k,  ■  •  ■  yields  a  new  vertex 
whose  coordinates  differ  from  the  original  vertex  precisely  in  places 
i,  j,  k  ■  ■  ■  .  Successive  reflections  in  hyperplanes  constitute  a  transfor- 
mation that  leaves  distances  between  points  unaltered  and  is  therefore 
a  "rotation."  The  rotation  obtained  by  reflecting  successively  in  sym- 
metry planes  ?',  j,  k,  etc.  can  be  represented  by  an  ?i-place  symbol  having 
a  one  in  places  ?',  j,  k,  etc.  and  a  zero  elsewhere. 

We  now  regard  a  given  {n,  /j)-alphabet  as  generated  by  operating  on 
the  vertex  (0,  0,  •  •  ■  ,  0)  of  the  cube  with  a  certain  collection  of  2    ro- 


224  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


tation  operators.  The  symbols  for  these  operators  are  identical  with  the 
sequences  of  zeros  and  ones  that  form  the  coordinates  of  the  2  points. 
It  is  readily  seen  that  these  rotation  operators  form  a  group  which  is 
transitive  on  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  and  which  leave  the  unit  cube 
invariant.  Theorem  2  then  follows. 

Theorem  2  also  follows  readily  from  consideration  of  the  array  (4). 
For  example,  the  maximum  likelihood  region  associated  with  /  is  the 
set  of  points  I,  So ,  S3 ,  •  •  •  ,  Sy  .  The  maximum  likelihood  region  asso- 
ciated with  A;  is  the  set  of  points  Ai ,  AiS^ ,  AiSs ,  ■  •  ■  ,  AiSy .  The 
rotation  (successive  reflections  in  symmetry  planes  of  the  cube)  whose 
symbol  is  the  same  as  the  coordinate  sequence  of  Ai  sends  the  maximum 
likelihood  region  of  /  into  the  maximum  likelihood  region  oi  Ai ,  i  = 
1,  2,  • •  •  ,  M. 

2.5  PROOF    OF   THEOREM   3 

That  every  systematic  alphabet  is  a  group  alphabet  follows  trivially 
from  the  fact  that  the  sum  mod  2  of  two  letters  satisfying  parity  checks 
is  again  a  letter  satisfying  the  parity  checks.  The  totality  of  letters  satis- 
fying given  parity  checks  thus  constitutes  a  finite  group. 

To  prove  that  every  group  alphabet  is  a  systematic  code,  consider 
the  letters  of  a  given  (w,  /c) -alphabet  listed  in  a  column.  One  obtains  in 
this  way  a  matrix  with  2  rows  and  n  columns  whose  entries  are  zeros 
and  ones.  Because  the  rows  are  distinct  and  form  a  group  isomorphic  to 
Ck  ,  there  are  k  linearly  independent  rows  (mod  2)  and  no  set  of  more 
than  h  independent  rows.  The  rank  of  the  matrix  is  therefore  h.  The 
matrix  therefore  possesses  k  linearly  independent  (mod  2)  columns  and 
the  remaining  n  —  k  columns  are  linear  combinations  of  these  A;.  Main- 
taining only  these  k  linearly  independent  columns,  we  obtain  a  matrix  of 
k  columns  and  2*'  rows  with  rank  k.  This  matrix  must,  therefore,  have  k 
linearly  independent  rows.  The  rows,  however,  form  a  group  under  mod 
2  addition  and  hence,  since  k  are  linearly  independent,  all  2"  rows  must 
be  distinct.  The  matrix  contains  only  zeros  and  ones  as  entries;  it  has  2 
distinct  rows  of  k  entries  each.  The  matrix  must  be  a  listing  of  the  num- 
bers from  0  to  2^^  —  1  in  binary  notation.  The  other  n  —  k  columns  of 
the  original  matrix  considered  are  linear  combinations  of  the  columns  of 
this  matrix.  This  completes  the  proof  of  Theorem  3  and  Proposition  4. 

2.6  PROOF    OF   THEOREM    4 

To  prove  Theorem  4  we  first  note  that  the  parity  check  sequence  of 
the  product  of  two  elements  of  Bn  is  the  mod  2  sum  of  their  separate 


A    CLASS    OF    BINARY    SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  225 

parity  check  sequences.  It  follows  then  that  all  elements  in  a  given  coset 
have  the  same  parity  check  sequence.  For,  let  the  coset  be  Si ,  SiA2 , 
SiAz ,  ■  ■  •  SiA^  .  Since  the  elements  I,  A^ ,  A3,  •  •  •  ,  A^  all  have  parity 
check  sequence  00  •  •  •  0,  all  elements  of  the  coset  have  parity  check 
R(Si). 

In  the  array  (4)  there  are  2"  cosets.  We  observe  that  there  are  2"~* 
elements  of  Bn  that  have  zeros  in  their  first  k  places.  These  elements 
have  parity  check  symbols  identical  with  the  last  n  —  k  places  of  their 
symbols.  These  elements  therefore  give  rise  to  2"~  different  parity  check 
symbols.  The  elements  must  be  distributed  one  per  coset.  This  proves 
Theorem  4. 

2.7    PROOF   OF   PROPOSITION    5 

If 

n  ^  2"-'  - 

we  can  explicity  exhibit  group  alphabets  having  the  property  mentioned 
in  the  paragraph  preceding  Proposition  5.  The  notation  of  the  demon- 
stration is  cumbersome,  but  the  idea  is  relatively  simple. 

We  shall  use  the  notation  of  paragraph  2.1  for  elements  of  Bn  ,  i.e., 
an  element  of  Bn  will  be  given  by  a  list  of  integers  that  specify  what 
places  of  the  sequence  for  the  element  contain  ones.  It  will  be  convenient 
furthermore  to  designate  the  first  k  places  of  a  sequence  by  the  integers 
1,  2,  3,  •  •  •  ,  k  and  the  remaining  n  —  k  places  by  the  "integers"  1',  2', 
3',  •  •  •  ,  r,  where  (  =  n  —  k.  For  example,  if  n  =  8,  /c  =  5,  we  have 

10111010^  13452' 
10000100^  11' 
00000101  ^  1'3' 

Consider  the  group  generated  by  the  elements  1',  2',  3',  •  •  •  ,  (' ,  i.e. 
the  2'  elements  /,  1',  2',  ■■■,(',  1'2',  1'3',  •  •  •  ,  1'2'3'  ■■■('.  Suppose 
these  elements  listed  according  to  decreasing  weight  (say  in  decreasing 
order  when  regarded  as  numbers  in  the  decimal  system)  and  numbered 
consecutively.  Let  Bt  be  the  zth  element  in  the  list.  Example:  if  (  ^  3, 
Ih  =  1'2'3',  B2  =  2'3',  B,  =  1'3',  B,  =  1'2',  B,  -  3',  B,  =  2',  B,  -  1'. 

Consider  now  the  (n,  /^-alphabet  whose  generators  are 

ISi  ,  2B,  ,W,,  ■■•  ,  kBk 
We  assert  that  if 


22G  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

>r%  n—k 
..  —  2        - 


this  alphabet  is  as  good  as  any  other  alphabet  of  2   letters  and  n  places. 

In  the  first  place,  we  observe  that  every  letter  of  this  (n,  A-)-alphabet 
(except  /)  has  unprimed  numbers  in  its  symbols.  It  follows  that  each  of 
the  2'  letters  /,  1',  2',  •  ■  •  ,  (',  V2',  ■■■  ,  V2'  ■■■  ('  occurs  in  a  different 
coset  of  the  given  (n,  A-)-alphabet.  For,  if  two  of  these  letters  appeared 
in  the  same  coset,  their  product  (which  contains  only  primed  numbers) 
would  have  to  be  a  letter  of  the  (n,  k)  alphabet.  This  is  impossible  since 
every  letter  of  the  (/i,  A)  alphabet  has  unprimed  numbers  in  its  symbol. 
Since  there  are  precisely  2  cosets  we  can  designate  a  coset  by  the  single 
element  of  the  list  Bi ,  Bi  ,  ■  •  ■  ,  B-ii  =  I  which  appears  in  the  coset. 

We  next  observe  that  the  condition 

71    ^    2  — 

guarantees  that  J5a+i  is  of  weight  3  or  less.  For,  the  given  condition  is 
equivalent  to 

'-■-©-o-o-e 

We  treat  several  cases  depending  on  the  weight  of  Bu+i . 

If  Bk+\  is  of  weight  3,  we  note  that  for  i  =  1,2,  •  •  •  ,  A-,  the  coset  con- 
taining Bi  also  contains  an  element  of  weight  one,  namely  the  element 
i  obtained  as  the  product  of  Bi  with  the  letter  iBi  of  the  given  (n,  A;)- 
alphabet.  Of  the  remaining  (2    —  A')  5's,  one  is  of  weight  zero,  C  are  of 

weight  one,  f     j  are  of  weight  2  and  the  remaining  are  of  weight  3.  We 

have,  then  an  =  1,  ai  =  f  +  A-  =  n.  Now  every  B  of  weight  4  occurs  in' 
the  list  of  generators  \Bi  ,  2B-2  ,  •  •  •  ,  kBk  .  It  follows  that  on  multi- 
plying this  list  of  generators  by  any  B  of  weight  3,  at  least  one  element 
of  weight  two  will  result.  (E.g.,  (l'2'3')(il'2'3'40  =  j4')  Thus  every 
coset  with  a  B  of  weight  2  or  3  contains  an  element  of  weight  2  and 
a2  =  2     —  ao  —  cn]  . 

The  argument  in  case  Bk+i  is  of  weight  two  or  one  is  similar. 

2.8   MODULAR    REPRESENTATIONS    OF    C„ 

In  order  to  explain  one  of  the  methods  used  to  obtain  the  best  (//,  A)- 
alphabets  listed  in  Tal)les  II  and  III,  it  is  necessary  to  digress  here  lo 
present  additional  theory. 


I 


A    CLASS    OF    BINARY   SINGALING   ALPHABETS 


227 


It  has  been  remarked  that  every  (n,  /v)-alphabet  is  isomorphic  with 
Ck  .  Let  us  suppose  the  elements  of  Ci,  hsted  in  a  column  starting  with  / 
and  proceeding  in  order  /,  1,  2,  3,  •  •  •  ,  /.',  12,  13,  ■••,(/.•—   1)/,-,  123, 

,   123  •  •  •  k.  The  elements  of  a  given  (n,  A-)-alphabet  can  be 

paired  off  with  these  abstract  elements  so  as  to  preserve  group  multipli- 
cation. This  can  be  done  in  many  different  ways.  The  result  is  a  matrix 
with  elements  zero  and  one  with  7i  columns  and  2  rows,  these  latter 
being  labelled  by  the  symbols  /,  1,2,  •  •  •  etc.  What  can  be  said  about 
the  columns  of  this  matrix?  How  many  different  columns  are  possible 
when  all  (n,  A)-alphabets  and  all  methods  of  establishing  isomorphism 
with  Ck  are  considered? 

In  a  given  column,  once  the  entries  in  rows  1,2,  •  •  •  ,  /,•  are  known,  the 
entire  column  is  determined  by  the  group  property.  There  are  therefore 
only  2  possible  different  columns  for  such  a  matrix.  A  table  showing 
these  2  possible  columns  of  zeros  and  ones  will  be  called  a  modular  repre- 
senfafion  table  for  Ck  ■  An  example  of  such  a  table  is  shown  for  /,•  =  4  in 
Table  VI. 

It  is  clear  that  the  colunuis  of  a  modular  representation  table  can  also 
be  labelled  by  the  elements  of  Ck  ,  and  that  group  multiplication  of  these 
column  labels  is  isomorphic  with  mod  2  addition  of  the  columns.  The 
table  is  a  symmetric  matrix.  The  element  with  row  label  A  and  column 
label  B  is  one  if  the  symbols  A  and  B  have  an  odd  number  of  different 
numerals  in  common  and  is  zero  otherwise. 

Every  (n,  /c)-alphabet  can  be  made  from  a  modular  representation 
table  by  choosing  w  columns  of  the  table  (with  possible  repetitions)  at 
least  k  of  which  form  an  independent  set. 


Table  VI  —  Modular  Representation  Table  for  Group  C4 

I    12    3    4    12   13   14   23   24   34   123    124   134    234   1234 

I 

1 

2 

3 

4 

12 

13 

14 

23 

24 

34 

123 

124 

134 

234 

1234 


0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

n 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

1 

0 

0 

1 

1 

1 

() 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

u 

228  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JANUARY    1956 

We  henceforth  exclude  consideration  of  the  column  /  of  a  modular 
representation  table.  Its  inckision  in  an  (n,  /v)-alphabet  is  clearly  a  waste 
of  1  binary  digit. 

It  is  easy  to  show  that  every  column  of  a  modular  representation  table 
for  Ch  contains  exactly  2  "  ones.  Since  an  (n,  /v)-alphabet  is  made  from 
n  such  columns  the  alphabet  contains  a  total  of  n2 '~  ones  and  we  have 

Proposition  6.  The  weights  of  an  (n,  /c)-alphabet  form  a  partition  of 
n2''~^  into  2*  —  1  non-zero  parts,  each  part  being  an  integer  from  the  set 
1,2,  ■■■  ,n. 
The  identity  element  always  has  weight  zero,  of  course. 

It  is  readily  established  that  the  product  of  two  elements  of  even 
weight  is  again  an  element  of  even  weight  as  is  the  product  of  two  ele- 
ments of  odd  weight.  The  product  of  an  element  of  even  weight  with  an 
element  of  odd  weight  yields  an  element  of  odd  weight. 

The  elements  of  even  weight  of  an  (n,  A;) -alphabet  form  a  subgroup 
and  the  preceding  argument  shows  that  this  subgroup  must  be  of  order 
2*"  or  2*""^  If  the  group  of  even  elements  is  of  order  2''~\  then  the  collec- 
tion of  even  elements  is  a  possible  (n,  k  —  l)-alphabet.  This  (n,  k  —  1) 
alphabet  may,  however,  contain  the  column  /  of  the  modular  represen- 
tation table  of  Ck-i  ■  We  therefore  have 

Proposition  7.  The  partition  of  Proposition  6  must  be  either  into 
2^  —  1  even  parts  or  else  into  2  "  odd  parts  and  2^—1  even  parts. 
In  the  latter  case,  the  even  parts  form  a  partition  of  a2  ""  where  a  is 
some  integer  of  the  set  k  —  I,  k,  ■  •  •  ,  n  and  each  of  the  parts  is  an  in- 
teger from  the  set  1,  2,  •  •  •  ,  n. 

2.9   THE    CHARACTERS    OF    Ck 

Let  us  replace  the  elements  of  Bn  (each  of  which  is  a  sequence  of  zeros 
and  ones)  by  sequences  of  4-1 's  and  —  I's  by  means  of  the  following 
substitution 

The  multiplicative  properties  of  elements  of  Bn  can  be  preserved  iti  this 
new  notation  if  we  define  the  product  of  two  4-1,-1  symbols  to  be  the 
symbol  whose  tth  component  is  the  ordinary  product  of  the  ?'th  compo- 
nents of  the  two  factors.  For  example,  1011  and  01 10  become  respectively 
-11  -1  -1  and  1  -1  -11.  We  have 

(-11  -1  -1)(1  -1  -11)  =  (-1  -11  -1) 


1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

-1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

-1 

A    CLASS    OF   BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  229 

corresponding  to  the  fact  that 

(1011)  (0110)  =  (1101) 

If  the  +1,-1  symbols  are  regarded  as  shorthand  for  diagonal  matrices, 
so  that  for  example 


-11  -1  -1 


then  group  multiplication  corresponds  to  matrix  multiplication. 

(While  much  of  what  follows  here  can  be  established  in  an  elementary 
way  for  the  simple  group  at  hand,  it  is  convenient  to  fall  back  upon  the 
established  general  theory  of  group  representations  for  several  proposi- 
tions. 

The  substitution  (13)  converts  a  modular  representation  table  (col- 
umn /  included)  into  a  square  array  of  +l's  and  —  I's.  Each  column  (or 
row)  of  this  array  is  clearly  an  irreducible  representation  of  Ck  ■  Since  Ck 
is  Abelian  it  has  precisely  2  irreducible  representations  each  of  degree 
one.  These  are  furnished  by  the  converted  modular  table.  This  table  also 
furnishes  then  the  characters  of  the  irreducible  representations  of  Ck 
and  we  refer  to  it  henceforth  as  a  character  table. 

Let  x"(^)  be  the  entry  of  the  character  table  in  the  row  labelled  A  and 
column  labelled  a.  The  orthogonality  relationship  for  characters  gives 


E  x'{A)/{A)  =  2'8., 


ACCk 


Z  x%A)x"(B)  =  2'b 

<xCCk 


AB 


where  8  is  the  usual  Kronecker  symbol.  In  particular 

E  xiA)x\A)  =    Z  AA)  =  0,        ^^I 

ACCk  ACCk 

Since  each  x  (A)  is  +1  or  —  1,  these  must  occur  in  eciual  numbers  in  any 
column  ^  9^  I.  This  implies  that  each  column  except  /  of  the  modular 
representation  table  contains  2  ~  ones,  a  fact  used  earlier. 

Every  matrix  representation  of  Ck  can  be  reduced  to  its  irreducible 
components.  If  the  trace  of  the  matrix  representing  the  element  A  in  an 
arbitrary  matrix  representation  of  Ck  is  x{A),  then  this  representation 
contains  the  irreducible  representation  having  label  ^  in  the  character 
table  dp  times  where 


230  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


(h  =  ^.    E    x{A)AA)  (14) 


2^- 


A  C  Ck 


Every  (n,  A)-alphabet  furnishes  iis  with  a  matrix  representation  of  Ck 
by  means  of  (13)  and  the  procedure  outUned  below  (13).  The  trace  xi^.) 
of  the  matrix  representing  the  element  A  of  C\  is  related  to  the  weight 
of  the  letter  by 

x(A)  =  n  -  2w(A)  (15) 

Equations  (14)  and  (15)  permit  us  to  compute  from  the  weights  of  an 
(u,  /,)-alphabet  what  irreducible  representations  are  present  in  the  alpha- 
bet and  how  many  times  each  is  contained.  It  is  assumed  here  that  the 
given  alphabet  has  been  made  isomorphic  to  Ck  and  that  the  weights  are 
labelled  by  elements  of  Ck  ■ 

Consider  the  converse  problem.  Given  a  set  of  mmibers  ivi  ,  Wn  ,  •  ■  ■  , 
W'lk  that  satisfy  Propositions  6  and  7.  From  these  we  can  compute 
cjuantities  %/  =  n  —  2wi  as  in  (15).  It  is  clear  that  the  given  ty's  will 
constitute  the  weights  of  an  (/t,  A)-alphabet  if  and  only  if  the  2^  x»  can 
be  labelled  with  elements  of  (\  so  that  the  2  sums  (14)  {fi  ranges  over 
all  elements  of  Ck)  are  non-negative  integers.  The  integers  d^  tell  what 
representations  to  choose  to  construct  an  in,  A)-alphabet  with  the  given 
weights  Wi  . 

2.10  CONSTRUCTION  OF  BEST  ALPHABETS 

A  great  many  different  techniques  were  used  to  construct  the  group 
alphabets  listed  in  Tables  II  and  III  and  to  show  that  for  each  n  and  k 
there  are  no  group  alphabets  with  smaller  probability  of  error.  Space 
prohibits  the  exhibition  of  proofs  for  all  the  alphabets  listed.  We  content 
ourseh'es  here  with  a  sample  argument  and  treat  the  case  n  =  10,  k  = 
4  in  detail. 

According  to  (2)  there  are  A^(10,  4)  =  53,743,987  different  (10,  4)- 
alphabets.  We  now  show  that  none  is  better  than  the  one  given  in  Table 
III.  The  letters  of  this  alphabet  and  weights  of  the  letters  are 

1  0 

167  8  10  5 

2  6  7  9  10  5 

3  5  6  8  9  10  6 

4  5  7  8  9  10  6 
1289  4 
13579  5 


A    CLASS   OF    BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS 


231 


14569 
23578 
24568 
3  4  6  7 
12  3  5  7  9 
12  4  5  7  10 

1  3  4  8  10 

2  3  4  9  10 

12  3  4  6  7  8  9 


5 
5 
5 
4 
6 
6 
5 
5 
8 


The  notation  is  that  of  Section  2.1.  By  actually  forming  the  standard 
array  of  this  alphabet,  it  is  verified  that 


ao  =1,         Oil  =  10, 


«2 


39, 


a:i 


14. 


Table  II  shows  (  .->  )  =  ^5,  whereas  a-z  =  39,  so  the  given  alphabet 

does  not  correct  all  possible  double  errors.  In  the  standard  array  for  the 
alphabet,  39  coset  leaders  are  of  weight  2.  Of  these  39  cosets,  33  have 
only  one  element  of  weight  2;  the  remaining  6  cosets  each  contain  two 
elements  of  weight  2.  This  is  due  to  the  two  elements  of  weight  4  in  the 
given  group,  namely  1289  and  3467.  A  portion  of  the  standard  array 
that  demonstrates  these  points  is 


1289 


3467 


12 

89 

• 

18 

29 

• 

19 

28 

. 

34 

67 

36 

47 

37 

46 

] 

• 

In  order  to  have  a  smaller  probability  of  error  than  the  exhibited 
alphabet,  it  is  necessary  that  a  (10,  4)-alphabet  have  an  a^  >  39.  We 
proceed  to  show  that  this  is  impossible  by  consideration  of  the  weights 
of  the  letters  of  possible  (10,  4)-alphabets. 

We  first  show  that  every  (10,  4)-alphabet  must  have  at  least  one  ele- 
ment (other  than  the  identity,  /)  of  weight  less  than  5.  By  Propositions 
•  ')  and  7,  Section 2.8,  the  weights  must  form  a  partition  of  10-8  =  80  into 
1 5  positive  parts.  If  the  weights  are  all  even,  at  least  two  must  be  less 
than 6  since  14-6  =  84  >  80.  If  eight  of  the  weights  are  odd,  we  see  from 
8-5  +  7-()  =  82  >  80  that  at  least  one  weight  must  be  less  than  5. 


232  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

An  alphabet  with  one  or  more  elements  of  weight  1  must  have  an 
«2  ^  36,  for  there  are  nine  elements  of  weight  2  which  cannot  possibly 
be  coset  leaders.  To  see  this,  suppose  (without  loss  of  generality)  that 
the  alphabet  contains  the  letter  1.  The  elements  12,  13,  14,  •  •  •  1  10  can- 
not possibly  be  coset  leaders  since  the  product  of  any  one  of  them  with 
the  letter  1  yields  an  element  of  weight  1 . 

An  alphabet  with  one  or  more  elements  of  weight  2  must  have  an 
ai  S  37.  Suppose  for  example,  the  alphabet  contained  the  letter  12. 
Then  13  and  23  must  be  in  the  same  coset,  14  and  24  must  be  in  the 
same  coset,  ■  •  •  ,  1  10  and  2  10  must  be  in  the  same  coset.  There  are  at 
least  eight  elements  of  weight  two  which  are  not  coset  leaders. 

Each  element  of  weight  3  in  the  alphabet  prevents  three  elements  of 
weight  2  from  being  coset  leaders.  For  example,  if  the  alphabet  contains 
123,  then  12,  13,  and  23  cannot  be  coset  leaders.  We  say  that  the  three 
elements  of  weight  2  are  "blocked"  by  the  letter  of  weight  3.  Suppose  an 
alphabet  contains  at  least  three  letters  of  weight  three.  There  are  several 
cases:  (A)  if  three  letters  have  no  numerals  in  common,  e.g.,  123,  456, 
789,  then  nine  distinct  elements  of  weight  2  are  blocked  and  a-2  S  36; 
(B)  if  no  two  of  the  letters  have  more  than  a  single  numeral  in  common, 
e.g.,  123,  345,  789,  then  again  nine  elements  of  weight  2  are  blocked  and 
a-2  ^  36;  and  (C)  if  two  of  the  letters  of  weight  3  have  two  numerals  in 
common,  e.g.,  123,  234,  then  their  product  is  a  letter  of  weight  2  and  l)y 
the  preceding  paragraph  ao  ^  37.  If  an  alphabet  contains  exactly  two 
elements  of  weight  3  and  no  elements  of  weight  2,  the  elements  of  weight 

3  block  six  elements  of  weight  2  and  0:2  ^  39. 
The  preceding  argument  shows  that  to  be  better  than  the  exhibited 

alphabet  a  (10,  4)-alphabet  with  letters  of  weight  3  must  have  just  one 
such  letter.  A  similar  argument  (omitted  here)  shows  that  to  be  better 
than  the  exhibited  alphabet,  a  (10,  4)-alphabet  cannot  contain  more 
than  one  element  of  weight  4.  Furthermore,  it  is  easily  seen  that  an 
alphabet  containing  one  element  of  weight  3  and  one  element  of  weight 

4  must  have  an  ao  ^  39. 
The  only  new  contenders  for  best   (10,  4)-alphabet  are,  therefore, 

alphabets  with  a  single  letter  other  than  /  of  weight  less  than  5,  and  this 
letter  must  have  weight  3  or  4.  Application  of  Propositions  6  and  7  show 
that  the  only  possible  weights  for  alphabets  of  this  sort  are:  35  6   and 

5  46'  where  5'  means  seven  letters  of  weight  5,  etc.  We  next  show  that 
there  do  not  exist  (10,  4)-alphabets  having  these  weights. 

Consider  first  the  suggested  alphabet  with  weights  35  6'.  As  explained 
in  Section  2.9,  from  such  an  alphabet  we  can  construct  a  matrix  repre- 
sentation of  ('4  having  the  character  x(/)  =   10,  one  matrix  of  trace  4, 


A   CLASS    OF    BINARY   SIGNALING   ALPHABETS  233 

seven  of  trace  0  and  seven  of  trace  —2.  The  latter  seven  matrices  cor- 
respond to  elements  of  even  weight  and  together  with  /  must  represent 
a  subgroup  of  order  8.  We  associate  them  with  the  subgroup  generated 
by  the  elements  2,  3,  and  4.  We  have  therefore 

x(/)  =  10,        x(2)  =  x(3)  =  x(4)  =  x(23) 

=  x(24)  =  x(34)  =  x(234)  =  -2. 

Examination  of  the  symmetries  involved  shows  that  it  doesn't  matter 
how  the  remaining  Xi  ai"e  associated  with  the  remaining  group  elements. 
We  take,  for  example 

x(l)  =  4,        x(12)  =  x(13)  =  x(14)  =  x(123) 

=  x(124)  =  x(134)  =  x(1234)  =  0. 

Now  form  the  sum  shown  in  equation  (14)  with  /3  =  1234  (i.e.,  with  the 
character  x^"  obtained  from  column  1234  of  the  Table  VI  by  means 
of  substitution  (13).  There  results  c?i234  =  V-i  which  is  impossible.  There- 
fore there  does  not  exist  a  (10,  4) -alphabet  with  weights  35  6  . 

The  weights  5  46  correspond  to  a  representation  of  d  with  character 
x(/)  =  10,  0^,  2,  (  — 2)^  We  take  the  subgroup  of  elements  of  even  weight 
to  be  generated  by  2,  3,  and  4.  Except  for  the  identity,  it  is  clearly  im- 
material to  w^hich  of  these  elements  we  assign  the  character  2.  We  make 
the  following  assignment:  x(/)  =  10,  x(2)  =  2,  x(3)  =  x(4)  =  x(23)  = 
x(24)  =  x(34)  =  x(234)  =  -2,  x(l)  =  x(12)  =  x(13)  =  x(14)  = 
x(123)  =  x(124)  =  x(134)  =  x(1234)  =  0.  The  use  of  equation  (14) 
shows  that  ^2  =  \'2  which  is  impossible. 

It  follows  that  of  the  53,743,987  (10,  4)-alphabets,  none  is  better  than 
the  one  listed  on  Table  III. 

Not  all  the  entries  of  Table  III  were  established  in  the  manner  just 
demonstrated  for  the  (10,  4)-alphabet.  In  many  cases  the  search  for  a 
l)est  alphabet  was  narrowed  down  to  a  few  alphabets  by  simple  argu- 
ments. The  standard  arrays  for  the  alphabets  were  constructed  and  the 
best  alphabet  chosen.  For  large  n  the  labor  in  making  such  a  table  can 
be  considerable  and  the  operations  involved  are  highly  liable  to  error 
when  performed  by  hand. 

I  am  deeply  indebted  to  V.  M.  Wolontis  who  programmed  the  IBM 
CPC  computer  to  determine  the  a's  of  a  given  alphabet  and  who  pa- 
tiently ran  off  many  such  alphabets  in  course  of  the  construction  of 
Tables  II  and  III.  I  am  also  indebted  to  Mrs.  D.  R.  Fursdon  who  eval- 
uated many  of  the  smaller  alphabets  by  hand. 


234  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 


REFERENCES 

1.  R.  W.  Hamming,  B.S.T.J.,  29,  i)p.  147-160,  1950. 

2.  I.  S.  Reed,  Transactions  of  tlie  Piofossional  (iroup  on  Information  Tlieorv, 
^  PGIT-4,  PI).  3S-49,  1954. 

3.  See  section  7  of  R .  W.  Hamniinji's  paper,  loc.  cit. 

4.  I.R.E.    Convention    Record,    I'art   4,    pp.    37-45,    1955    National    Convention, 

March,  1955. 

5.  C.  E.  Shannon,  B.S.T.J.,  27,  pp.  379-423  and  pp.  623-656,  1948. 

6.  Birkhoff  and  MacLane,  A  Snrvey  of  Modern  Algebra,  Macmillan  Co.,  New 

York,  1941 .  Van  der  Waerden,  Alodern  Algebra,  Ungar  Co.,  New  York,  1953. 
Miller,  Bliclifeldt,  and  Dickson,  Finite  Groups,  Stechert,  New  York,  1938. 

7.  This  theorem  has  been  previously  noted  in  the  literature  by  Kiyasu-Zen'iti, 

Research  and  Development  Data  No.  4,  Ele.  Comm.  Lai).,  Nippon  Tele. 
Corp.  Tokyo,  Aug.,  1953. 

8.  F.  D.  Murnaghan,  Theory  of  Group  Representations,  Johns  Hopkins  Press, 

Baltimore,  1938.  E.  Wigner,  Gruppentheorie,  Edwards  Brothers,  Ann  Arbor, 
Michigan,  1944. 


I 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not 
Published  in  This  Journal 

Allen,  L.  J.,  see  Fewer,  D.  R. 

Alllson,  H.  W.,  see  Moore,  G.  E. 

Baker,  W.  0.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

Barstow,  J.  M.^ 

Color  TV       How  it  Works,  I.R.E.  Student  Quarterly,  2,  pp.  11-16, 
Sept.,  1955. 

Basseches,  H.^  and  ^McLean,  D.  A. 

Gassing  of  Liquid  Dielectrics  Under  Electrical  Stress,  Ind.  c^-  Engg. 
Chem.,  47,  pp.  1782-1794,  Sept.,  1955. 

Beck,  A.  C} 

Measurement  Techniques  for  Multimode  Waveguides,  Proc.  I.R.E., 
MRI,  4,  pp.  325-6,  Oct.  1,  1955. 

Becker,  J.  A.^ 

The  Life  History  of  Adsorbed  Atoms,  Ions,  and  Molecules,  N.  Y. 
Acad.  Sci.  Ann.,  58,  pp.  723-740,  Sept.  15,  1955. 

Hlackwell,  J.  H.,  see  Fewer,  D.  R. 
BooRSE,  H.  A.,  see  Smith,  B. 

HozoRTii,  R.  M.,'  Getlin,  B.  B.,'  Galt,  J.  K.,'  Merritt,  F.  R.,'  and- 

^'ager,  W.  a.' 
Frequency  Dependence  of  Magnetocrystalline  Anisotropy,  Letter  to 
the  Editor,  Phys.  Rev.,  99,  p.  1898,  Sept.  15,  1955. 


1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

235 


236  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHXICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

BozoRTH.  R.  M.\  TiLDEX,  E.  F..'  and  Williams,  A.  j/ 
Anisotropy  and  Magnetostriction  of  Some  Ferrites,  Phys.  Rev.,  99, 
pp.  17S8-1798,  Sept.  15,  1955. 

Bridgers,  H.  E.,^  and  Kolb,  E.  D.^ 

Rate-Grown  Germanium  Crystals  for  High-Frequency  Transistors, 
Letter  to  the  Editor,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1188-1189,  Sept.,  1955.   j 

BULLIXGTOX,  K.^ 

Characteristics  of  Beyond-the-Horizon  Radio   Transmission,  Pioc. 
I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  1175-1180,  Oct.,  1955. 

BULLIXGTOX,  K.^  IXKSTER,  W.  J.,^  and  DVRKEE,  A.  L.^ 

Results  of  Propagation  Tests  at  505  Mc  and  4,090  Mc  on  Beyond- 
Horizon  Paths,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  1306-1316,  Oct.,  1955. 

Calbick,  C.  J.' 

Surface  Studies  with  the  Electron  Microscope,  X.  Y.  Acad.  Sci.  Ann., 
58,  pp.  873-892,  Sept.  15,  1955. 

Cass,  R.  S.,  see  Fewer,  D.  R. 

DuRKEE,  A.  L.,  see  Bullington,  K. 

Fewer,  D.  R..'  Blackwell.  J.  H..'  Allex.  L.  J..^  and  Cass,  R.  S." 
Audio-Frequency  Circuit  Model  of  the  1-Dimensional  Schroedinger 
Equation  and  Its  Sources  of  Error,  Canadian  J.  of  Pins.,  33,  pp.  483- 
491,  Aug.,  1955. 

Francois,  E.  E.,  see  Law,  J.  T. 

Davis,  J.  L.,  see  Suhl,  H. 

Galt,  J.  K.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  "SI.,  and  Yager,  W.  A. 

Garn,  p.  D.,'  and  Hallixe,  Mrs.  E.  W.' 

Polarographic  Determination  of  Phthalic  and  Anhydride  Alkyd  Res- 
ins, Anal  Cliem.,  27,  pp.  15()3-15G5,  Oct.,  1955. 

1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

4.  University  of  Western  Ontario,  London,  Canada 

5.  Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Canada,  Montreal 


TECHNICAL    PAPERS  237 

Getlin,  B.  B.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

GlANOLA,  V.  F} 

Application  of  the  Wiedemann  Effect  to  the  Magnetostrictive  Coupling 
of  Crossed  Coils,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1152-1157,  Sept.,  1955. 

Goss,  A.  J.,  see  Hassion,  F.  X. 

Green,  E.  I.^ 
The  Story  of  0,  American  Scientist,  43:  pp.  584-594,  Oct.,  1955. 

Halline,  Mrs.  E.  W.,  see  Garn,  P.  D. 

Harrower,  G.  A.^ 
Measurement  of  Electron  Energies  by  Deflection  in  a  Uniform  Electric 
Field,  Rev.  Sci.  Instr.,  26,  pp.  850-854,  Sept.,  1955. 

Hassion,  F.  X.,^  Goss,  A.  .1.,^  and  Trumbore,  F.  A.^ 
The  Germanium-Silicon  Phase  Diagram,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  59,  p.  1118, 
Oct.,  1955. 

Hassion,  F.  X.,^  Thurmond,  C.  D.,^  and  Trumbore,  F.  A.^ 

On  the  Melting  Point  of  Germanium,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  59,  p.  1076, 
Oct.,  1955. 

Hines,  I\I.  E.,'  Hoffman,  G.  W.,'  and  Saloom,  J.  A.^ 

Positive-Ion  Drainage  in  Magnetically  Focused  Electron  Beams,  J. 
Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1157-1162,  Sept.,  1955. 

Hoffman,  G.  W.,  see  Hines,  M.  E. 

Inkster,  W.  J.,  see  Bullington,  K. 

Kelly,  M.  J.' 
Training  Programs  of  Industry  for  Graduate  Engineers,  Elec.  Engg., 
74,  pp.  866-869,  Oct.,  1955. 

KoLB,  E.  D.,  see  Bridgers,  H.  E. 
1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


1 


238  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHXICAL   JOURXAL,    JANUARY    1 9 of) 

Law,  J.  T./  and  Francois,  E.  E.' 

Adsorption  of  Gasses  and  Vapors  on  Germanium,  X.  Y.  Acad.  Sci. 
Ann.,  58,  pp.  925-936,  Sept.  15,  1955. 

LovELL,  Miss  L.  C,  see  Pfann,  W.  G. 

Matreyek,  W.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

McLean,  D.  A.,  see  Basseches,  H. 

Merritt,  F.  R.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M.,  and  Yager,  W.  A. 

Meyer,  F.  T.' 

An  Improved  Detached-Contact  Type  of  Schematic  Circuit  Drawing, 
A.LE.E.  Commun.  ct  Electronics,  20,  pp.  505-513,  Sept.,  1955. 

Miller,  B.  T.' 

Telephone  Merchandising,  Telephony,   149,  pp.   116-117,  Oct.  22, 
1955. 

Miller,  S.  L.^ 

Avalanche  Breakdown  in  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  99,  pp.  1234-1241, 
Aug.  15,  1955. 

Moore,  G.  E.,^  and  Allison,  H.  W.^ 
Adsorption   of  Strontium  and  of  Barium   on   Tungsten,   J.   Chem. 
Phys.,  23,  pp.  1609-1621,  Sept.,  1955. 

Neisser,  W.  R.,^ 

Liquid  Nitrogen  Coal  Traps,  Rev.  Sci.  Instr.,  26,  p.  305,  Mar.,  1955. 

Ostergren,  C.  N." 

Some  Observations  on  Liberahzed  Tax  Depreciation,  Telephony,  149, 
pp.  16-23-37,  Oct.  1,  1955. 

Ostergren,  G.  N. 

Depreciation  and  the  New  Law,  Telephony,  149,  pp.  96-100-104-108, ; 
Oct.  22,  1955.  I 

Rape,  N.  R.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

2.  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co. 


\\ 


technical  papers  239 

Pedekskn,  L. 
Aluminum  Die  Castings  for  Carrier  Telephone  Systems,  A.I.E.E. 
Commun.  &  Electronics,  20,  pp.  434-439,  Sept.,  1955. 

Peters,  H.^ 
Hard  Rubber,  Tnd.  and  Engg.  Chem.,  Part  II,  pp.  2220-2222,  Sept. 
20,  1955. 

Pfann,  w.  c;.' 

Temperature-Gradient  Zone-Melting,  J.  Metals,  7,  p.  961,  Sept.,  1955. 

Pfann,  W.  G.,'  and  Lovell,  Miss  L.  C.^ 
Dislocation  Densities  in  Intersecting  Lineage  Boundaries  in  Ger- 
manium, Letter  to  the  Editor,  Acta.  Met.,  3,  pp.  512-513,  Sept.,  1955. 

Pierce,  J.  P.' 
Orbital  Radio  Relays,  Jet  Propulsion,  25,  pp.  153-157,  Apr.,  1955. 

Poole,  K.  M.' 
Emission  from  Hollow  Cathodes,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1176-1179, 
Sept.,  1955. 

Saloom,  J.  A.,  see  Hines,  M.  E. 

Slighter,  W.  P.^ 
Proton  Magnetic  Resonance  in  Polyamides,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp., 
1099-1103,  Sept.,  1955. 

Smith,  B./  and  Boorse,  H.  A. 
Helium  II  Film  Transport.  II.  The  Role  of  Surface  Finish,  Phys.  Rev. 
99,  pp.  346-357,  July  15,  1955. 

Smith,  B.,^  and  Boorse,  H.  A. 
Helium  II  Film  Transport.  IV.  The  Role  of  Temperature,  Phys.  Rev., 
99,  pp.  367-370,  July  lo,  1955. 

SuHL,  H.,^  Van  Uitert,  L.  G.,^  and  Davis,  J.  L.^ 
Ferromagnetic  Resonance  in  Magnesium-Manganese  Aluminum  Fer- 
rite  Between  160  and  1900  Mc,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  J.  Appl.  Phys., 
26,  pp.  1181-1182,  Sept.,  1955. 

1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

6.  Columbia  University,  New  York  City 


240  THE    EELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1956 

Thurmond,  C.  D.,  see  Hassion,  F.  X. 

TiDD,  W.  H/  I 

Demonstration  of  Bandwidth  Capabilities  of  Beyond -Horizon  Tropo- 
spheric  Radio  Propagation,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  1297-1299,  Oct.,  1955. 

Tien,  P.  K.,'  and  Walker,  L.  R.' 
Large  Signal  Theory  of  Traveling -Wave  Amplifiers,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43, 
p.  1007,  Aug.,  1955. 

TiLDEN,  E.  F.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Trumbore,  F.  a.,  see  Hassion,  F.  X. 

IThlir,  a.,  Jr.^ 

Micromachining  with  Virtual  Electrodes,  Rev.  Sci.,  Instr.,  26,  pp. 
965-968,  Oct.,  1955. 

Ulrich,  W.,  see  Yokelson,  B.  J. 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G.,  see  Siihl,  H. 

Walker,  L.  R.,  see  Tien,  P.  K. 

Weibel,  E.  S.' 
Vowel  Synthesis  by  Means  of  Resonant  Circuits,  J.  Acous.  Soc,  27, 
pp.  858-865,  Sept.,  1955. 

Williams,  A.  J.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

WiNSLow,  F.  H.,'  Baker,  W.  O.,^  and  Yager,  W.  A.^ 

Odd  Electrons  in  Polymer  Molecules,  Am.  Chem.  Soc,  77,  pp.  4751- 
4756,  Sept.  20,  1955. 

WiNSLow,  F.  II.,'  Baker,  W.  O.,'  Rape,  N.  R.'  and  Matreyek,  W.' 
Formation  and  Properties  of  Polymer  Carbon,  J.  Polymer  Science,  16, 
p.  101,  Apr.,  1955. 

Yager,  W.  A.,  sec  Bozorth,  R.  M. 
1.  Bell  Tc;l(;i)li()ne  liaboratorics,  Inc. 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  241 

Yagkr,  W.  a./  Galt,  J.  K/  and  Merritt,  F.  R.' 
Ferromagnetic  Resonance  in  Two-Nickel-Iron  Ferrites,  Phys.  Rev., 
99,  pp.  1203-1209,  Aug.  15,  1955. 

YoKELSON,  B.  J.,^  and  Ulrich,  W.^ 

Engineering  Multistage  Diode  Logic  Circuits,  A.I.E.E.  Commun.  & 
Electronics,  20,  pp.  -466-475,  Sept.,  1955. 

1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


Recent  Monographs  of  Bell  System  Technical 
Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal* 

Arnold,  W.  O.,  and  Hoefle,  R.  R. 

A  System  Plan  for  Air  Traffic  Control,  ]\Ionograph  2483. 

Beck,  A.  C. 

Measurement  Techniques  for  Multimode  Waveguides,  ]\Ioiiograph 
2421. 

Becker,  J.  A.,  and  Brandes,  R.  G. 

Adsorption  of  Oxygen  on  Tungsten  as  Revealed  in  Field  Emission 
Microscope,  Alonogiaph  24U3. 

Boyle,  W.  S.,  see  Germer,  L.  H. 

Brandes,  R.  G.,  see  Becker,  J.  A. 

Brattain,  W.  H.,  see  Garrett,  C.  G.  B. 

Garrett,  C.  G.  B.,  and  Brattain,  W.  H. 

Physical  Theory  of  Semiconductor  Surfaces,  Monograph  2453. 

Gerner,  L.  H.,  Boyle,  W.  S.,  and  Kisliuk,  P. 

Discharges  at  Electrical  Contacts  —  II,  Monograph  2499. 

Hoefle,  R.  R.,  see  Arnold,  W.  0. 

KisLiuK,  P.,  see  Germer,  L.  H. 

Linvill,  J.  G. 

Nonsaturating  Pulse  Circuits  Using  Two  Junction  Transistors,  Mono- 
graph 2-17.").  I 

*  Copies  of  these  monographs  may  1)0  ()l)l;tin(Ml  on  request  to  the  Pul)licat ion 
Department,  Hell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Iiie.,  463  West  Street,  New  York  14, 
N.  Y.  The  numbers  of  the  monographs  should  be  given  in  all  requests. 

242 


MONOGRAPHS  243 

Mason,  W.  P. 

Relaxations  in  the  Attenuation  of  Single  Crystal  Lead,  Monograph 
2454. 

Mkykr,  F.  T. 
An  Improved  Detached-Contact-Type  of  Schematic  Circuit  Drawing, 
Monograph  2456. 

VoGEL,  F.  L.,  Jr. 

Dislocations  in  Low-Angle  Boundaries  in  Germanium,  Monograph 
2455. 

Walker,  T..  R. 

Generalizations  of  Brillouin  Flow,  Monograph  2432. 

Warner,  A.  W. 

Frequency  Aging  of  High -Frequency  Plated  Crystal  Units,  Monograph 
2474. 

Weibel,  E.  S. 

On  Webster's  Horn  Equation,  Monograph  2450. 


Contributors  to  This  Issue 

A.  C.  Beck,  E.E.,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  1927;  Instructor, 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  1927-1928;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, 1928  -.  With  the  Radio  Research  Department  he  was  engaged 
in  the  development  and  design  of  short-wave  and  microwave  antennas. 
During  World  War  II  he  was  chiefly  concerned  with  radar  antennas  and 
associated  waveguide  structures  and  components.  For  several  years 
after  the  war  he  worked  on  development  of  microwave  radio  repeater 
systems.  Later  he  worked  on  microwave  transmission  developments 
for  broadband  communication.  Recently  he  has  concentrated  on  further 
developments  in  the  field  of  broadband  communication  using  circular 
waveguides  and  associated  test  equipment. 

J.  S.  Cook,  B.E.E.,  and  M.S.,  Ohio  State  University,  1952;  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories,  1952  -.  Mr.  Cook  is  a  member  of  the  Research 
in  High-Frequency  and  Electronics  Department  at  Murray  Hill  and 
has  been  engaged  principally  in  research  on  the  traveling- wave  tube. 
Mr.  Cook  is  a  member  of  the  Institute  of  Radio  Engineers  and  belongs 
to  the  Professional  Group  on  Electron  Devices. 

0.  E.  DeLange,  B.S.  University  of  Utah,  1930;  M.A.  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, 1937;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1930  — .  His  early  work  was 
principally  on  the  development  of  high-frequency  transmitters  and  re- 
ceivers. Later  he  worked  on  frequency  modulation  and  during  World 
War  II  was  concerned  with  the  development  of  radar.  Since  that  time 
he  has  been  involved  in  research  using  broadband  systems  including 
microwa^'e  and  baseband.  Mr.  DeLange  is  a  member  of  the  Institute 
of  Radio  Engineers. 

R.  KoMPFNER,  Engineering  Degree,  Technische  Hochschule,  Vienna, 
1933;  Ph.D.,  Oxford,  1951;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1951  -.  Be- 
tween 1941-1950  he  did  work  for  the  British  Admiralty  at  Birmingham 
University  and  Oxford  University  in  the  Royal  Naval  Scientific  Service. 
He  invented  the  traveling-wave  tube  and  for  this  achievement  Dr. 
Kompfner  i-eceived  the  1955  Duddcll  Medal,  bestowed  by  the  Physical 
Society  of  England.  In  the  Laboratoi'ies'  Research  in  High  Frequency 

244 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO   THIS   ISSUE  245 

and  Electronics  Department,  he  has  continued  his  research  on  vacuum 
tubes,  particularly  those  used  in  the  microwave  region.  He  is  a  Fellow 
of  the  Institute  of  Radio  Engineers  and  of  the  Physical  Society  in 
London. 

Charles  A.  Lee,  B.E.E.,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  1943; 
Ph.D.,  Columbia  University,  1953;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1953-. 
When  Mr.  Lee  joined  the  Laboratories  he  became  engaged  in  research 
concerning  solid  state  devices.  In  particular  he  has  been  developing 
techniques  to  extend  the  frequency  of  operation  of  transistors  into  the 
microwave  range,  including  work  on  the  diffused  base  transistor.  During 
World  War  II,  as  a  member  of  the  United  States  Signal  Corps,  he  was 
concerned  with  the  determination  and  detection  of  enemy  counter- 
measures  in  connection  with  the  use  of  proximity  fuses  by  the  Allies. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Physical  Society  and  the  American 
Institute  of  Physics.  He  is  also  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi,  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Eta  Kappa  Nu. 

John  R.  Pierce,  B.S.,  M.S.  and  Ph.D.,  California  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology 1933,  1934  and  1936;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1936-.  Ap- 
pointed Director  of  Research  —  Electrical  Communications  in  August, 
1955.  Dr.  Pierce  has  specialized  in  Development  of  Electron  Tubes  and 
Microwave  Research  since  joining  the  Laboratories.  During  World  War 
li  II  he  concentrated  on  the  development  of  electronic  devices  for  the 
[I  Armed  Forces.  Since  the  war  he  has  done  research  leading  to  the  develop- 
;j  ment  of  the  beam  traveling- wave  tube  for  which  he  was  awarded  the 
h  1947  Morris  Liebmann  Memorial  Prize  of  the  Institute  of  Radio  Engi- 
[li  neers.  Dr.  Pierce  is  author  of  two  books:  Theory  and  Design  of  Electron 
Ij  Beams,  published  in  second  edition  last  year,  and  Traveling  Wave  Tubes 
il  (1950).  He  was  voted  the  ''Outstanding  Young  Electrical  Engineer  of 
[|  1942"  by  Eta  Kappa  Nu.  Fellow  of  the  American  Physical  Society  and 
J  the  I.R.E.  Member  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  the  A.I.E.E., 
I  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  the  British  Interplanetary  So- 
il ciety,  and  the  Newcomen  Society  of  North  America. 

C.  F.  QuATE,  B.S.,  University  of  Utah  1944;  Ph.D.,  Stanford  Uni- 
i  versity  1950;  Bell  Laboratories  1950-.  Dr.  Quate  has  been  engaged  in 
rj  research  on  electron  dynamics  —  the  study  of  vacuum  tubes  in  the 
;|  microwave  frequency  range.  He  is  a  member  of  I.R.E. 

I      David  Slepian,  University  of  Michigan,  1941-1943;  M.A.  and  Ph.D., 
li  Harvard  LTniversity,  1946-1949;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1950-.  Dr. 


24G  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JANUARY    1950 

Slepian  has  been  engaged  in  mathematical  research  in  communication 
theory,  switching  theory  and  theory  of  noise.  Parker  Fellow  in  physics. 
Harvard  University  1949-50.  Member  of  I.R.E,,  American  Mathemati- 
cal Society,  the  American  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

Milton  Sobel,  B.S.,  City  College  of  New  York,  1940;  M.A.,  1946  and 
Ph.D.,  1951,  Columbia  University;  U.  S.  Census  Bureau,  Statistician, 
1940-41;  U.  S.  Army  War  College,  Statistician,  1942-44;  Cohunbia  Uni- 
versity, Department  of  Mathematics,  Assistant,  1946-48  and  Research 
Associate  1948-50;  Wayne  University,  Assistant  Professor  of  Mathe- 
matics, 1950-52;  Columbia  University,  Department  of  Mathematical 
Statistics,  Visiting  Lecturer,  1952;  Cornell  University,  fundamental  re- 
search in  mathematical  statistics,  1952-54;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1954-.  Dr.  Sobel  is  engaged  in  fundamental  research  on  life  testing 
reliability  problems  with  special  application  to  transistors  and  is  a  con- 
sultant on  many  Laboratories  projects.  Member  of  Institute  of  Mathe- 
matical Statistics,  American  Statistical  Association  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Morris  Tanenbaum,  A.B.,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  1949;  M.A., 
Princeton  University,  1950;  Ph.D.  Princeton  University,  1952;  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories,  1952-,  Dr.  Tanenbaum  has  been  concerned 
with  the  chemistry  and  semiconducting  properties  of  intermetallic  com- 
pounds. At  present  he  is  exploring  the  semiconducting  properties  of 
silicon  and  the  feasibility  of  silicon  semiconductor  devices.  Dr.  Tanen- 
baum is  a  member  of  the  American  Chemical  Society  and  American 
Physical  Society.  He  is  also  a  member  of  Phi  Lambda  LTpsilon,  Phi  Beta 
Kappa  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Donald  E.  Thomas,  B.S.  in  E.E.,  Pennsylvania  State  College,  1929; 
M.A.,  Columbia  University,  1932;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1929- 
1942,  1946-.  His  first  assignment  at  the  Laboratories  was  in  submarine 
cable  development.  Just  prior  to  World  War  II  he  became  engaged  in 
the  development  of  sea  and  airborne  radar  and  continued  in  this  work  I 
until  he  left  for  military  duty  in  1942.  During  World  War  II  he  was  made ' 
a  member  of  the  Joint  and  Combined  Chiefs  of  Staff  Committees  on 
Radio  C-ountermeasures.  Later  he  was  a  civilian  memlior  of  the  Depart-' 
ment  of  Defense's  Research  and  Development  Board  Panel  on  Electronic 
Countermeasures.  Upon  rejoining  the  Laboratories  in  1946,  Mr.  Thomas 
was  active  in  the  development  and  installation  of  the  first  deep  sea  re- 
peatered  submarine  telephone  cable,  hctwcen  Key  West  and  Havana,' 


COXTIUBUTOKS   TO   THIS   ISSUE  247 

which  went  into  service  in  1950.  Later  he  was  engaged  in  the  develop- 
ment of  transistor  devices  and  circuits  for  special  applications.  At  the 
present  time  he  is  working  on  the  evaluation  and  feasibility  studies  of 
new  types  of  semiconductors  devices.  He  is  a  senior  member  of  the  I.R.E. 
and  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Phi  Kappa  Phi. 

Laurence  R.  Walker,  B.Sc.  and  Ph.D.,  McGill  University,  1935 
and  1939;  LTniversity  of  California  1939-41;  Radiation  Laboratory, 
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology,  1941-45;  Bell  Telephone  La- 
boratories, 1945-.  Dr.  Walker  has  been  primarily  engaged  in  the  develop- 
ment of  microwave  oscillators  and  amplifiers.  At  present  he  is  a  member 
of  a  physical  research  group  concerned  with  the  applied  physics  of  solids. 
Fellow  of  the  American  Physical  Society. 


IHE      BELL      SYSTEM 

Jechnical  journal 

VOTED    TO    THE    SC  I  E  N  T  I  FIC^^^    AND    ENGINEERING 
PECTS    OF    ELECTRICAL    COMMUNICATION 


LUME  XXXV  MARCH    1956  NUMBER  2 


An  Experimental  Remote  Controlled  Line  Concentrator  \.f^  y 

A^E.  JOEL,  JR.  249 

Transistor  Circuits  for  Analog  and  Digital  Systems 

F.  H.  BLECHER   295 

Electrolytic  Shaping  of  Germanium  and  Silicon  a.  uhlir,  jr.  333 

A  Large  Signal  Theory  of  Traveling-Wave  Amplifiers        p.  k.  tibn  349 

A  Detailed  Analysis  of  Beam  Formation  with  Electron  Guns  of  the 
Pierce  Type    w.  e.  danielson,  j.  l.  rosenfeld  and  j.  a.  saloom  375 

Theories  for  Toll  Traffic  Engineering  in  the  U.S.A.    r.  i,  Wilkinson  421 

Crosstalk  on  Open -Wire  Lines 

W,  C,  BABCOCK,  ESTHER  RENTROP  AND  C.  S.  THAELER  515 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal  519 

Recent  Bell  System  Monographs  527 

Contributors  to  This  Issue  531 


COPYRIGHT  1956  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ADVISORY    BOARD 

F.  K.  K  A  P  P  E  L,  President  Western  Electric  Company 

M.  J.  KELLY,  President,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 

E.  J.  McNEELY,  Executive  Vice  President,  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

EDITORIAL    COMMITTEE 

B.  MCMILLAN,  Chairman 

A.  J.  BUSCH  H.  R.  HUNTLEY 

A.   C.   DICKIBSON  F.   R.   LACK 

R.   L.   DIETZOLD  J.   R.   PIERCE 

K.  E.  GOULD  H.   V.   SCHMIDT 

E.   I.   GREEN  C.   ESCHOOLEY 

R.   K.  HON  AM  AN  G.  N.  THAYER 

ED ITORI AL    STAFF 

J.  D.  TEBO,  Editor 

M.  E.  s  T  R  I  E  B  Y,  Managing  Editor 

R.  L.  SHEPHERD,  Production  Editor 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times 
a  year  by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  195  Broadway, 
New  York  7,  N.  Y.  Qeo  F.  Craig,  President;  S.  Whitney  Landon,  Secretary; 
John  J.  Scanlon,  Treasurer.  Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $3.00  per  year. 
Single  copies  are  75  cents  each.  The  foreign  postage  is  65  cents  per  year  or  11 
cents  per  copy.  Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 


THE   BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XXXV  MARCH   1956  number  2 

Copyright  1958,  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

An  Experimental  Remote  Controlled 
Line  Concentrator 

By.  A.  E.  JOEL,  JR. 

(Manuscript  received  June  30,  1955) 

Concentration,  which  is  the  process  of  connecting  a  number  of  telephone 
lines  to  a  smaller  number  of  switching  paths,  has  always  been  a  funda?nental 
function  in  switching  systems.  By  performing  this  function  remotely  from 
the  central  office,  a  new  balance  between  outside  plant  and  switching  costs 
may  be  obtained  which  shows  promise  of  providing  service  more  economi- 
cally in  some  situations. 

The  broad  concept  of  remote  line  concentrators  is  not  new.  However,  its 
solution  with  the  new  devices  and  techniques  now  available  has  made  the 
possibilities  of  decentralization  of  the  means  for  switching  telephone  con- 
nections very  promising. 

Three  models  of  an  experimental  equipment  have  been  designed  and  con- 
structed for  service.  The  models  have  included  equipment  to  enable  the  evalua- 
tion of  new  procedures  required  by  the  introduction  of  remote  line  concentra- 
tors into  the  telephone  plant.  The  paper  discusses  the  philosophy,  devices, 
and  techniques. 

CONTENTS 

1 .  Introduction 250 

2.  Objectives 251 

3.  New  Devices  Emploj^ed 252 

4.  New  Techniques  Emploved 254 

5.  Switching  Plan ". 257 

249 


250  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

6.  Basic  Circuits 261 

a.  Diode  Gates 261 

b.  Transistor  Bistable  Circuit 262 

c.  Transistor  Pulse  Amplifier 263 

d.  Transistor  Ring  Counter 264 

e.  Crosspoint  Operating  Circuit 266 

f .  Crosspoint  Relay  Circuit 267 

g.  Pulse  Signalling  Circuit 268 

h.  Power  Supply 269 

7.  Concentrator  Operation 270 

a.Line  Scanning 270 

b.  Line  Selection 272 

c.  Crosspoint  Operation  and  Check 273 

8.  Central  Office  Circuits 274 

a.  Scanner  Pulse  Generator 279 

b.  Originating  Call  Detection  and  Line  Number  Registration 280 

c.  Line  Selection 282 

d.  Trunk  Selection  and  Identification 284 

9.  Field  Trials 286 

10.  Miscellaneous  Features  of  Trial  Equipment 287 

a.  Traffic  Recorder,        b.  Line  Condition  Tester 288 

c.  Simulator,        d.  Service  Observing 290 

e.  Service  Denial,        f .   Pulse  Display  Circuit 291 

1.   INTRODUCTION 

The  equipment  which  provides  for  the  switching  of  telephone  connec- 
tions has  ahvays  been  located  in  what  have  been  commonly  called  "cen- 
tral offices".  These  offices  provide  a  means  for  the  accumulation  of  all 
switching  equipment  required  to  handle  the  telephone  needs  of  a  com- 
munity or  a  section  of  the  community.  The  telephone  building  in  which 
one  or  more  central  offices  are  located  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  the 
"wire  center"  because,  like  the  spokes  of  a  wheel,  the  wires  which  serve 
local  telephones  radiate  in  all  directions  to  the  telephones  of  the 
community. 

A  new  development,  made  possible  largely  by  the  application  of  de- 
vices and  techniques  new  to  the  telephone  switching  field,  has  recently 
been  tried  out  in  the  telephone  plant  and  promises  to  change  much  of  . 
the  present  conception  of  "central"  offices  and  "wire"  centers.  It  is 
known  as  a  "line  concentrator"  and  provides  a  means  for  reducing  the 
amount  of  outside  plant  cables,  poles,  etc.,  serving  a  telephone  central 
office  by  dispersing  the  switching  equipment  in  the  outside  plant.  It  is 
not  a  new  concept  to  reduce  outside  plant  by  bringing  the  switching 
equipment  closer  to  the  telephone  customer  but  the  technical  difficulties 
of  maintaining  complex  switching  equipment  and  the  cost  of  controlling" 
such  equipment  at  a  distance  have  in  the  past  been  formidable  obstacles 
to  the  development  of  line  concentrators.  With  the  invention  of  low 
power,  small-sized,  long-life  devices  such  as  transistors,  gas  tubes,  and 
sealed  relays,  and  their  application  to  line  concentrators,  and  with  the 
development  of  new  local  switching  systems  with  greater  flcxibilit}',  it 
has  been  possible  to  make  the  progress  described  herein. 


REMOTE   CONTROLLED   LINE   CONCENTRATOR  251 

2.  OBJECTIVES 

Within  the  telephone  offices  the  first  switching  equipment  through 

which  dial  lines  originate  calls  concentrates  the  traffic  to  the  remaining 

equipment  which  is  engineered  to  handle  the  peak  busy  hour  load  with 

the  appropriate  grade  of  service.^  This  concentration  stage  is  different  for 

different  switching  systems.  In  the  step-by-step  system^  it  is  the  line 

'  finder,  and  in  the  crossbar  systems  it  is  the  primary  line  switch.^  Pro- 

1  posals  for  the  application  of  remote  line  concentrators  in  the  step-by- 

i  step  system  date  back  over  50  years/  Continuing  studies  over  the  years 

have  not  indicated  that  any  appreciable  savings  could  be  realized  when 

such  equipment  is  used  within  the  local  area  served  by  a  switching  center. 

When  telephone  customers  move  from  one  location  to  another  within 

a  local  service  area,  it  is  desirable  to  retain  the  same  telephone  numbers. 

The  step-by-step  switching  system  in  general  is  a  unilateral  arrangement 

where  each  line  has  two  appearances  in  the  switching  equipment,  one 

for  originating  call  concentration  (the  line  finder)  and  one  for  selection 

of  the  line  on  terminating  calls  (the  connector) .  The  connector  fixes  the 

line  number  and  telephone  numbers  cannot  be  readily  reassigned  when 

moving  these  switching  stages  to  out-of-office  locations. 

Common-control  systems^  have  been  designed  with  flexibility  so  that 
the  line  number  assignments  on  the  switching  equipment  are  independ- 
ent of  the  telephone  numbers.  Furthermore,  the  first  switching  stage 
in  the  office  is  bilateral,  handling  both  originating  and  terminating  calls 
through  the  same  facilities.  The  most  recent  common-control  switching 
system  in  use  in  the  Bell  System,  the  No.  5  crossbar,^  has  the  further 
advantage  of  universal  control  circuitry  for  handling  originating  and 
terminating  calls  through  the  line  switches.  For  these  reasons,  the  No. 
5  crossbar  system  was  chosen  for  the  first  attempt  to  employ  new  tech- 
niques of  achieving  an  economical  remote  line  concentrator. 

A  number  of  assumptions  were  made  in  setting  the  design  require- 
ments. Some  of  these  are  influenced  by  the  characteristics  of  the  No.  5 
crossbar  system.  These  assumptions  are  as  follows: 

1.  No  change  in  customer  station  apparatus.  Standard  dial  telephones 
to  be  used  with  present  impedance  levels,  transmission  characteristics, 
dial  pulsing,  party  identification,  superimposed  ac-dc  ringing,^  and  sig- 
naling and  talking  ranges. 

2.  Individual  and  two-party  (full  or  semi-selective  ringing)  stations 
to  be  served  but  not  coin  or  PBX  lines. 

3.  Low  cost  could  best  be  obtained  by  minimizing  the  per  line 
equipment  in  the  central  office.  AMA^  charging  facilities  could  be  used 
but  to  avoid  per  station  equipment  in  the  central  office  no  message  reg- 
ister operation  would  be  provided. 


252  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

4.  Each  concentrator  would  serve  up  to  50  lines  with  the  central  office 
control  circuits  common  to  a  number  of  concentrators.  (Experimental 
equipment  described  herein  was  designed  for  60  lines  to  provide  addi- 
tional facilities  for  field  trial  purposes.)  No  extensive  change  would  be 
made  in  central  office  equipment  not  associated  with  the  line  switches 
nor  should  concentrator  design  decrease  call  carrying  capacities  of  exist- 
ing central  office  equipment. 

5.  To  provide  data  to  evaluate  service  performance,  automatic  traffic 
recording  facilities  to  be  integrated  with  the  design. 

6.  Remote  equipment  designed  for  pole  or  wall  mounting  as  an  addi- 
tion to  existing  outside  plant.  Therefore,  terminal  distribution  facilities 
would  not  be  provided  in  the  same  cabinet. 

7.  Power  to  be  supplied  from  the  central  office  to  insure  continuity 
of  telephone  service  in  the  event  of  a  local  power  failure. 

8.  Concentrators  to  operate  over  existing  types  of  exchange  area  fa- 
cilities without  change  and  with  no  decrease  in  station  to  central  office 
service  range. 

9.  Maintenance  effort  to  be  facilitated  by  plug-in  unit  design  using 
the  most  reliable  devices  obtainable. 

3.    NEW   DEVICES   EMPLOYED 


»! 


I 


Numerous  products  of  research  and  development  were  available  for 
this  new  approach.  Only  those  chosen  will  be  described. 

For  the  switching  or  "crosspoint"  element  itself,  the  sealed  reed  switch 
was  chosen,  primarily  because  of  its  imperviousness  to  dirt.*  A  short  coil 
magnet  with  magnetic  shield  for  increasing  sensitivity  of  the  reed 
switches  were  used  to  form  a  relay  per  crosspoint  (see  Fig.  1). 

A  number  of  switching  applications^ '^^  for  crosspoint  control  using 
small  gas  diodes  have  been  proposed  by  E.  Bruce  of  our  Switching  Re- 
search Department.  They  are  particularly  advantageous  when  used  in 
an  "end  marking"  arrangement  with  reed  relay  crosspoints.  Also,  these 
diodes  have  long  life  and  are  low  in  cost.  One  gas  diode  is  employed  for 
operating  each  crosspoint  (see  Fig.  6).  Its  breakdown  voltage  is  125v  ± 
lOv,  A  different  tube  is  used  in  the  concentrator  for  detecting  marking 
potentials  when  termination  occurs.  Its  breakdown  potential  is  lOOv  ± 
lOv.  One  of  these  tubes  is  used  on  each  connection. 

Signaling  between  the  remote  concentrator  and  the  central  office  con- 
trol circuits  is  performed  on  a  sequential  basis  with  pulses  indicative  of 
the  various  line  conditions  being  transmitted  at  a  500  cycle  rate.  This 
frequency  encounters  relatively  low  attenuation  on  existing  exchange 
area  wire  facilities  and  j^et  is  high  enough  to  transmit  and  receive  in- 
formation at  a  rate  which  will  not  decrease  call  carrjdng  capacitj^  of  the 


REMOTE  CONTROLLED  LINE  CONCENTRATOR 


253 


Fig.  1  —  Reed  switch  relay. 

central  office  equipment.  To  accomplish  this  signaling  and  to  process  the 
information  economically  transistors  appear  most  promising. 

Germanium  alloy  junction  transistors  were  chosen  because  of  their 
;  improved  characteristics,  reliability,  low  power  requirements,  and  mar- 
gins, particularly  when  used  to  operate  with  relays.^^  Both  N-P-N  and 
P-N-P  transistors  are  used.  High  temperature  characteristics  are  par- 
ticularly important  because  of  the  ambient  conditions  which  obtain  on 
pole  mounted  equipment.  As  the  trials  of  this  equipment  have  progressed, 


254  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Table  I— Transistor  Characteristics 


Code  No. 

Type  and  Filling 

Alpha 

Max.  Ico  at  28V 
and  65°C 

Emitter  Zener 
Voltage  at  20^=1 

M1868 
M1887 

p-n-p  Oxygen 
n-p-n  Vacuum 

0.9-1.0 
0.5-  .75 

150  Ma 
100  Ma 

>735 
>735 

considerable  progress  has  been  made  in  improving  transistors  of  thi.s 
type.  Table  I  summarizes  the  characteristics  of  these  transistors. 

For  directing  and  analyzing  the  pulses,  the  control  employs  semicon- 
ductor diode  gate  circuits."  The  semiconductor  diodes  used  in  these 
circuits  are  of  the  silicon  alloy  junction  type,^^  Except  for  a  few  diode.s 
operating  in  the  gas  tube  circuits  most  diodes  have  a  breakdown  voltage 
requirement  of  27v,  a  minimum  forward  current  of  15  ma  at  2v  and  a 
maximum  reverse  current  at  22v  of  2  X  10^^  amp. 

4.  new  techniques  employed 

The  concentrator  represents  the  first  field  application  in  Bell  System 
telephone  switching  systems  which  departs  from  current  practices  and 
techniques.  These  include: 


Fig.  2  —  Transistor   packages,    (a)   Diode    unit,    (b)   Transistor  counter,    (c) 
Transistor  amplifiers  and  bi-stable  circuits,  (d)  Five  trunk  unit. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR  255 

1.  High  speed  pulsing  (500  pulses  per  second)  of  information  between 
switching  units. 

2.  The  use  of  plug-in  packages  employing  printed  wiring  and  encap- 
sulation. (Fig.  2  shows  a  representative  group  of  these  units.) 

3.  Line  scanning  for  supervision  with  a  passive  line  circuit.  In  present 
systems  each  line  is  equipped  with  a  relay  circuit  for  detecting  call  orig- 
inations (service  requests)  and  another  relay  (or  switch  magnet)  for 
indicating  the  busy  or  idle  condition  of  the  line,  as  shown  in  Fig.  3(a). 
The  line  concentrator  utilizes  a  circuit  consisting  of  resistors  and  semi- 
conductor diodes  in  pulse  gates  to  provide  these  same  indications.  This 
circuit  is  shown  in  Fig.  3(b).  Its  operation  is  described  later.  The  pulses 
for  each  line  appear  at  a  different  time  with  respect  to  one  another. 
These  pulses  are  said  to  represent  "time  slots."  Thus  a  different  line  is 
examined  each  .002  second  for  a  total  cycle  time  (for  60  lines)  of  .120 
second.  This  process  is  known  as  "line  scanning"  and  the  portion  of  the 
circuit  which  produces  these  pulses  is  known  as  the  scanner.  Each  of  the 
circuits  perform  the  same  functions,  viz.,  to  indicate  to  the  central  office 
equipment  when  the  customer  originates  a  call  and  for  terminating  calls 
to  indicate  if  the  line  is  busy. 

4.  The  lines  are  divided  for  control  and  identification  purposes  into 
twelve  groups  of  five  lines  each.  Each  group  of  five  lines  has  a  different 
pattern  of  access  to  the  trunks  which  connect  to  the  central  office.  The 
ten  trunks  to  the  central  office  are  divided  into  two  groups  as  shown  in 
Fig.  4.  One  trunk  group,  called  the  random  access  group,  is  arranged  in 
a  random  multiple  fashion,  so  that  each  of  these  trunks  is  available  to 
approximately  one-half  of  the  lines.  The  other  group,  consisting  of  two 
trunks,  is  available  to  all  lines  and  is  therefore  called  the  full  access 
group.  The  control  circuitry  is  arranged  to  first  select  a  trunk  of  the 
random  access  group  which  is  idle  and  available  to  the  particular  line  to 
which  a  connection  is  to  be  made.  If  all  of  the  trunks  of  this  random  ac- 
cess group  are  busy  to  a  line  to  which  a  connection  is  desired,  an  attempt 
is  then  made  to  select  a  trunk  of  the  full  access  group.  The  preference 
order  for  selecting  cross-points  in  the  random  access  group  is  different 
for  each  line  group,  as  shown  in  the  table  on  Fig.  4.  By  this  means,  each 
trunk  serves  a  number  of  lines  on  a  different  priority  basis.  Random  ac- 
cess is  used  to  reduce  by  40  per  cent  the  number  of  individual  reed  relay 
crosspoints  which  would  otherwise  be  needed  to  maintain  the  quality 
of  service  desired,  as  indicated  by  a  theory  presented  some  years  ago.^^ 

5.  Built-in  magnetic  tape  means  for  recording  usage  data  and  making 
call  delay  measurements.  The  gathering  of  this  data  is  greatly  facilitated 
by  the  line  scanning  technique. 


256 


THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


CROSSBAR  CROSSPOINT 

OR 

SWITCH    CONTACTS 


-^ 


TO  LINE 


-^ 


TO  OTHER 

CENTRAL  OFFICE 

EQUIPMENT 


9  9 


r 


^ 


LR 


■^f- 


CO 


c 


HI 


"H 


1_ 


(a) 


■:l 


LINE    BUSY 


SERVICE 
REQUEST 


I  +  5V 


CROSSPOINT 


■^ 


TO  LINE 


-^ 


TO 

CENTRAL 

OFFICE 


^4- 


-X 


-16V 


-16  VOLTS -NORMAL 
(RECEIVER  ON   HOOK) 

-3   VOLTS -AWAITING  SERVICE 
(RECEIVER  OFF   HOOK) 

-16  VOLTS -CROSSPOINT  CLOSED 
(RECEIVER  OFF  HOOK) 


S\. 


-¥^ 


-16  V 


^ 


LINE  BUSY 


+  15  VOLT 
TIME  SLOT  PULSE 
FROM    SCANNER 


GATE 


SERVICE 
REQUEST 


Fig.  3  —  (a)  Relay  line  circuit,  (b)  Passive  line  circuit. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


257 


5.    SWITCHING   PLAN 

The  plan  for  serving  lines  directly  terminating  in  a  No.  5  Crossbar  office 
is  shown  in  Fig.  5(a).  Each  line  has  access  through  a  primary  line  switch 
to  10  line  links.  The  line  links  couple  the  primary  and  secondary  switches 
together  so  that  each  line  has  access  to  all  of  the  100  junctors  to  the  trunk 
link  switching  stage.  Each  primary  line  switch  group  accommodates 
from  19  to  59  lines  (one  line  terminal  being  reserved  for  no-test  calls). 
A  line  link  frame  contains  10  groups  of  primary  line  switches.^* 
.  The  remote  concentrator  plan  merely  extends  these  line  links  as  trunks 
to  the  remote  location.  However,  an  extra  crossbar  switching  stage  is 
introduced  in  the  central  office  to  connect  the  links  to  the  secondary  line 
switches  with  the  concentrator  trunks  as  shown  in  Fig.  5(b).  Since  each 
line  does  not  have  full  access  to  the  trunks,  the  path  chosen  by  the  marker 
to  complete  calls  through  the  trunk  link  frame  may  then  be  independent 
of  the  selection  of  a  concentrator  trunk  with  access  to  the  line.  This 
arrangement  minimizes  call  blocking,  simplifies  the  selection  of  a  matched 
path  by  the  marker,  and  the  additional  crossbar  switch  hold  magnet 
serves  also  as  a  supervisory  relay  to  initiate  the  transmission  of  disconnect 
signals  over  the  trunk. 

In  addition  to  the  10  concentrator  trunks  used  for  talking  paths,  2 
additional  cable  pairs  are  provided  from  each  concentrator  to  the  central 
office  for  signaling  and  power  supply  purposes.  The  use  of  these  two  pairs 
of  control  conductors  is  described  in  detail  in  Section  6g. 

The  concentrator  acts  as  a  slave  unit  under  complete  control  of  the 
central  office.  The  line  busy  and  service  request  signals  originate  at  the 


LINE 


60    LINES 

I 


o.-»-o 

0 

5 

9 

7            '^ 

/      ^ 

/      ■v 

/ 

p,          ■^ 

i' 

\. 

^ 

V 

•y 

\ 

/        s 

f 

\ 

^ 

\ 

,•      \ 

'^ 

^ 

1              > 

f 

<  > 

1      2      3 


5     6 


8      9     10     11 


Fig  4.  —  Concentrator  trunk 
to  line  crosspoint  pattern  and 
preference  order 


CONCENTRATOR 
TRUNKS 


9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

9 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

6 

0 

5 

4 

7 

5 

3 

1 

4 

7 

2 

1 

7 

3 

1 

5 

2 

0 

6 

4 

6 

5 

0 

3 

1 

7 

2 

3 

6 

2 

4 

0 

0 

6 

3 

5 

0 

4 

6 

2 

3 

7 

1 

6 

2 

4 

1 

7 

1 


5      6 


8 


VERTICAL    GROUPS    OF    FIVE    LINES    EACH " 

ORDER    OF    PREFERENCE 


GAS    TUBE    REED -RELAY 
CROSS    POINTS 


10     11 


258 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


49 
LINES 


TEN    GROUPS 
OF    LINES 


49 

LINES  I 


CENTRAL    OFFICE 
LINE    LINK  FRAME 


LINE  SW 


1 

CON- 
NECTOR 

1 
1 

1 

— 

-- 1 

1 

CON- 
NECTOR 

I 

TO    MARKER 


TRUNK 
LINK 
FRAME 


Fig.  5(a)  —  No.  5  crossbar  system  subscriber  lines  connected  to  line  link  frame. 


60 

LINES 


60 
LINES 


60 
0      <? 


10 


CONTROL 


CE^4TRAL  OFFICE 


TEN    CONCENTRATOR 
,  TRUNKS 


I 

JL 


TWO   CONTROL    PAIRS 


60 

0     0 


10 


TEN    POLE- 
MOUNTED 
^CONCENTRATOR 
UNITS   AT 
DIFFERENT 
LOCATIONS 


CONTROL 


TEN  CONCENTRATOR 
TRUNKS 


TWO   CONTROL  PAIRS 


CONCENTRATOR 

TRUNK  SW  JUNCTOR 

SW 


10 
9       C> 


TRUNK 

LINK 
FRAME 


TO  MARKER 


CONCENTRATOR    LINE   LINK 
FRAME 


Fig.  5(b)  — No.  5  crossbar  system  subscriber  lines  connected  to  remote  line 
concentrators. 


REMOTE  CONTROLLED  LINE  CONCENTRATOR 


259 


Fig.  6  —  Line  unit  construction. 


concentrator  only  in  response  to  a  pulse  in  the  associated  time  slot  or 
when  a  crosspoint  operates  (a  line  busy  pulse  is  generated  under  this 
condition  as  a  crosspoint  closure  check).  The  control  circuit  in  the 
central  office  is  designed  to  serve  10  remote  line  concentrators  connected 
to  a  single  line  link  frame.  In  this  way  the  marker  deals  with  a  concen- 
trator line  link  frame  as  it  would  with  a  regular  line  link  frame  and  the 
marker  modifications  are  minimized. 

The  traffic  loading  of  the  concentrator  is  accomplished  by  fixing  the 


260 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Fig.  7(a)  —  Line  unit. 


number  of  trunks  at  10  and  equipping  or  reassigning  lines  as  needed  to 
obtain  the  trunk  loading  for  the  desired  grade  of  service.  The  six  cross- 
points,  the  passive  line  circuit  and  scanner  gates  individual  to  each  line 
are  packaged  in  one  plug-in  unit  to  facilitate  administration.  The  cross- 
points  are  placed  on  a  printed  wiring  board  together  with  a  comb  of  plug 
contacts  as  shown  in  Fig.  6.  The  entire  unit  is  then  dipped  in  rubber  and 
encapsulated  in  epoxy  resin,  as  shown  in  Fig.  7(a). 

This  portion  of  the  unit  is  extremely  reliable  and  therefore  it  may  be 
considered  as  expendable,  should  a  rare  case  of  trouble  occur.  The  passive 
line  circuit  and  scanner  gate  circuit  elements  are  mounted  on  a  smaller 
second  printed  wiring  plate  (known  as  the  "line  scanner"  plate,  see  Fig. 
7(b)  which  fits  into  a  recess  in  the  top  of  the  encapsulated  line  unit.  Cir- 


Fig.  7(b)  —  Scanner  plate  of  the  line  unit  shown  in  Fig.  7  (a). 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


261 


cuit  connection  between  printed  wiring  plates  is  through  pins  which  ap- 
pear in  the  recess  and  to  which  the  smaller  plate  is  soldered. 


6.    BASIC    CIRCUITS 


a.  Diode  Gates 


All  high  speed  signaling  is  on  a  pulse  basis.  Each  pulse  is  positive  and 
approximately  15  volts  in  amplitude.  There  is  one  basic  type  of  diode 
gate  circuit  used  in  this  equipment.  By  using  the  two  resistors,  one  con- 
denser and  one  silicon  alloy  junction  diode  in  the  gate  configuration 
shown  in  Fig.  8,  the  equivalents  of  opened  or  closed  contacts  in  relay 
circuits  are  obtained.  These  configurations  are  known  respectively  as 
enabling  and  inhibiting  gates  and  are  shown  with  their  relay  equivalents 
ill  Figs.  8(a)  and  8(b). 

In  the  enabling  gate  the  diode  is  normally  back  biased  by  more  than 
the  pulse  voltage.  Therefore  pulses  are  not  transmitted.  To  enable  or 


INPUT 


ENABLING    GATE   CIRCUIT 
CI 


OUTPUT 


(a) 


ENABLING   GATE     SYMBOL 


INPUT 


OUTPUT 


CONTROL 

EQUIVALENT    RELAY   CIRCUIT 
OUTPUT 
INPUT  f 


CONTROL 


CHli^ 


INPUT 


INHIBITING    GATE    CIRCUIT 
Cl 


OUTPUT 


INHIBITING    GATE    SYMBOL 


INPUT 


OUTPUT 


CONTROL 

EQUIVALENT   RELAY    CIRCUIT 
OUTPUT 


DhUHl 


Fig.  8  —  Gates  and  relay  equivalents. 


262  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

open  the  gate  the  back  bias  is  reduced  to  a  small  reverse  voltage  which  is 
more  than  overcome  by  the  signal  pulse  amplitude  of  the  pulse.  The 
pulse  thus  forward  biases  the  diode  and  is  transmitted  to  the  output. 

The  inhibiting  gate  has  its  diode  normally  in  the  conducting  state  so 
that  a  pulse  is  readily  transmitted  from  input  to  output.  When  the  bias 
is  changed  the  diode  is  heavily  back  biased  so  that  the  pulse  amplitude 
is  insufficient  to  overcome  this  bias. 

The  elements  of  12  gates  are  mounted  on  a  single  printed  wiring  board 
w4th  plug-in  terminals  and  a  metal  enclosure  as  shown  in  Fig.  2(a).  All 
elements  are  mounted  in  one  side  of  the  board  so  that  the  opposite  side 
may  be  solder  dipped.  After  soldering  the  entire  unit  (except  the  plug) 
is  dipped  in  a  silicone  varnish  for  moisture  protection. 

b.  Transistor  Bistable  Circuit 

Transistors  are  inherently  well  adapted  to  switching  circuits  using  but 
two  states,  on  (saturated)  or  off.^^  In  these  circuits  with  a  current  gain 
greater  than  unity  a  negative  resistance  collector  characteristic  can  be 
obtained  which  will  enable  the  transistor  to  remain  locked  in  its  conduct- 
ing state  (high  collector  current  flowing)  until  turned  off  (no  collector 
current)  by  an  unlocking  pulse.  At  the  time  the  concentrator  develop- 
ment started  only  point  contact  transistors  were  available  in  quantity. 
Point  contact  transistors  have  inherently  high  current  gains  (>1)  but 
the  collector  current  flowing  when  in  the  normal  or  unlocked  condition 
(Ico)  was  so  great  that  at  high  ambient  temperatures  a  relay  once  op- 
erated in  the  collector  circuit  would  not  release. 

Junction  transistors  are  capable  of  a  much  greater  ratio  of  on  to  off 
current  in  the  collector  circuit.  Furthermore  their  characteristics  are 
amenable  to  theoretical  design  consideration.^^  However,  the  alpha  of  a 
simple  junction  transitor  is  less  than  unity.  To  utilize  them  as  one  would    | 
a  point  contact  transitor  in  a  negative  resistance  switching  circuit,  a 
combination  of  n-p-n  and  p-n-p  junction  transistors  may  be  employed,  i 
see  Fig.  9(b).  Two  transistors  combined  in  this  manner  constitute  a    ' 
"hooked  junction  conjugate  pairs."  This  form  of  bi-stable  circuit  was    j 
used  because  it  requires  fewer  components  and  uses  less  power  than  an 
Eccles-Jordan  bistable  circuit  arrangement.  It  has  the  disadvantage  of  a 
single  output  but  this  was  not  found  to  be  a  shortcoming  in  the  design 
of  circuits  employing  pulse  gates  of  the  type  described.  In  what  follows 
the  electrodes  of  the  transistor  will  be  considered  as  their  equivalents 
shown  in  Fig.  9(b). 

The  basic  bi-stable  circuit  employed  is  shown  in  Fig.  10.  The  set 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


263 


EMITTER 


COLLECTOR 


EMITTER 


n-p-n 


COLLECTOR 


BASE 

fa) 

POINT   CONTACT 
TRANSISTOR 

Ic 


BASE 


(b) 


CONJUGATE    PAIR 

ALLOY    JUNCTION 

TRANSISTORS 


C  _ 


0C>  1 


Fig.  9  —  Point  contact  versus  hooked  conjugate  pair. 

pulse  is  fed  into  the  emitter  (of  the  pair)  causing  the  emitter  diode  to 
conduct.  The  base  potential  is  increased  thus  increasing  the  current 
flowing  in  the  collector  circuit.  When  the  input  pulse  is  turned  off  the 
base  is  left  at  about  —2  volts  thus  maintaining  the  emitter  diode  con- 
( lucting  and  continuing  the  increased  current  flow  in  the  collector  circuit. 
The  diode  in  the  collector  circuit  prevents  the  collector  from  going 
positive  and  thereby  limits  the  current  in  the  collector  circuit.  To  reset, 
a  positive  pulse  is  fed  into  the  base  through  a  pulse  gate.  The  driving  of 
tlie  base  positive  returns  the  transistor  pair  to  the  off  condition. 

c.  Transistor  Pulse  Amplifier 

This  circuit  (Fig.  11)  is  formed  by  making  a  bi-stable  self  resetting 
circuit.  It  is  used  to  produce  a  pulse  of  fixed  duration  in  response  to  a 


TRANSISTORS 

p-n-p 


SET 


RESET 


I-5V 


-I6V 


F/F 


Fig.  10  —  Transistor  bi-stable  circuit. 


264 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


pulse  of  variable  width  (within  limits)  on  the  input.  Normally  the  emitter 
is  held  slightly  negative  with  respect  to  the  base.  The  potential  difference 
determines  the  sensitivity  of  the  amplifier.  When  a  positive  input  pulse 
is  received,  the  emitter  diode  conducts  causing  an  increase  in  collector 
current.  The  change  in  bias  of  the  diode  in  the  emitter  circuit  permits 
it  to  conduct  and  charge  the  condenser.  With  the  removal  of  the  input 
pulse  the  discharge  of  the  condenser  holds  the  transistor  pair  on.  The 
time  constant  of  the  circuit  determines  the  on  time.  When  the  emitter 
potential  falls  below  the  base  potential,  the  transistor  pair  is  turned  off. 

The  amplifiers  and  bi-stable  circuits  or  flip-flops,  >as  they  are  called 
more  frequently,  are  mounted  together  in  plug-in  packages.  Each  pack- 
age contains  8  basic  circuits  divided  7-1,  6-2,  or  2-6,  between  amplifiers 
and  fhp-flops.  Fig.  2(c)  shows  one  of  these  packages.  They  are  smaller 
than  the  gate  or  line  unit  packages,  having  only  28  terminals  instead  of 
42. 

The  transistors  for  the  field  trial  model  w^ere  plugged  into  small  hear- 
ing aid  sockets  mounted  on  the  printed  wiring  boards.  For  a  production 
model  it  w^ould  be  expected  that  the  transistors  w^ould  be  soldered  in. 

d.  Transistor  Ring  Counter 

By  combining  bi-stable  transistor  and  diode  pulse  gate  circuits  to- 
gether in  the  manner  shown  in  Fig.  12  a  ring  counter  may  be  made,  with 


INPUT 


p-n-p 


^w 


^vW-" 


I 

+  5V 


OUTPUT 


-16  V 


INPUT 


OUTPUT 


Fig.  11  —  Transistor  pulse  amplifier. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


265 


COUNT 
INPUT 

lie 


STAGE   NUMBER 
3 


NOTE: 

LEADS    A-0  TO   A-4 
ARE  OUTPUT    LEADS 
OF    RESPECTIVE   STAGES 


1    I    I    \    r 

s     's     's     's      's 


Fig.  12  —  Ring  counter  schematic. 


a  bi-stable  circuit  per  stage.  The  enabling  gate  for  a  stage  is  controlled 
by  the  preceding  stage  allowing  it  to  be  set  by  an  input  advance  pulse. 
The  output  signal  from  a  stage  is  fed  back  to  the  preceding  stage  to  turn 
it  off.  An  additional  diode  is  connected  to  the  base  of  each  stage  for  re- 
setting when  returning  the  counter  to  a  fixed  reference  stage. 

A  basic  package  of  5  ring  counter  stages  is  made  up  in  the  same  frame- 
work and  with  the  same  size  plug  as  the  flip-flop  and  amplifier  packages, 
see  Fig.  2(b).  A  four  stage  ring  counter  is  also  used  and  is  the  same 
package  with  the  components  for  one  stage  omitted.  The  input  and  out- 
put terminals  of  all  stages  are  available  on  the  plug  terminals  so  that 
the  stages  may  be  connected  in  any  combination  and  form  rings  of  more 
than  5  stages.  The  reset  lead  is  connected  to  all  but  the  one  stage  which 
is  considered  the  first  or  normal  stage. 

Other  transistor  circuits  such  as  binary  counters  and  square  wave 
generators  are  used  in  small  quantity  in  the  central  office  equipment. 
They  will  not  be  described. 


266  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


CONCENTRATOR 

LINE    BUSY 


CENTRAL  OFFICE 


TO    ALL   CROSSPOINTS 
/  SERVED    BY   TRUNK 


+  130  V 


VG 
VF 


I 


L..1.. 


/ 


TO   ALL   CROSSPOINTS 
FOR   SAME    LINE 


SELECTION 

FROM 

" CENTRAL 

OFFICE 


i-65V 


I  +  100V 


Fig.  13  —  Crosspoint  operating  circuit. 


e.  Crosspoint  Operating  Circuit 

The  crosspoint  consists  of  a  reed  relay  with  4  reed  switches  and  a  gas 
diode  (Fig.  1).  The  selection  of  a  crosspoint  is  accomplished  by  marking 
with  a  negative  potential  (  —  65  volts)  all  crosspoints  associated  with  a 
line,  and  marking  with  a  positive  potential  (  +  100  volts)  all  crosspoints 
associated  with  a  trunk  (Fig.  13).  The  line  is  marked  through  a  relay 
circuit  set  by  signals  sent  over  the  control  pair  from  the  central  office. 
The  trunk  is  marked  b}^  a  simplex  circuit  connected  through  the  break 
contacts  of  the  hold  magnet  of  the  crossbar  switch  associated  with  the 
trunk  in  the  central  office.  Only  one  crosspoint  at  a  time  is  exposed  to 
165  volts  which  is  necessary  and  sufficient  to  break  down  the  gas  diode 
to  its  conducting  state.  The  reed  relay  operates  in  series  with  the  gas 
diode.  A  contact  on  the  relay  shunts  out  the  gas  diode.  When  the  marking- 
potentials  are  removed  the  relay  remains  energized  in  a  local  30-voll 
circuit  at  the  concentrator.  The  holding  current  is  approximately  2.5  ma. 

This  circuit  is  designed  so  that  ringing  signals  in  the  presence  or  ab- 
sence of  lino  marks  will  not  falsely  fire  a  crosspoint  diode.  Furthonnoi'o, 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


267 


a  line  or  trunk  mark  alone  should  not  be  able  to  fire  a  crosspoint  diode 
on  a  busy  line  or  trunk. 

When  the  crosspoint  operates,  a  gate  which  has  been  inhibiting  pulses 
is  forward  biased  by  the  —65  volt  signal  through  the  crosspoint  relay 
winding.  The  pulse  which  initiates  the  mark  operations  at  the  concentra- 
tor then  passes  through  the  gate  to  return  a  line  busy  signal  to  the  central 
office  over  this  control  pairs  which  is  interpreted  as  a  crosspoint  closure 
check  signal. 

f.  Crosspoint  Release  Circuit 

The  hold  magnet  of  the  central  office  crossbar  switch  operates,  remov- 
ing the  +100- volt  operate  mark  signal  after  the  crosspoint  check  signal 
is  received.  A  slow  release  relay  per  trunk  is  operated  directly  by  the 
hold  magnet.  When  the  central  office  connection  in  the  No.  5  crossbar 
system  releases,  the  hold  magnet  is  released.  As  shown  in  Fig.  14,  with  the 
hold  magnet  released  and  the  slow  release  relay  still  operated,  a  — 130- 
volt  signal  is  applied  in  a  simplex  circuit  to  the  trunk  to  break  down  a 
gas  tube  provided  in  the  trunk  circuit  at  the  concentrator.  This  tube  in 


CONCENTRATOR 


CENTRAL  OFFICE 


TO  ALL  CROSSPOINTS 
SERVED  BY  SAME  TRUNK 


130V  I 


Fig.  14  —  Crosspoint  release  circuit. 


268 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


breaking  down  shunts  the  local  holding  circuit  of  the  crosspoint  causing 
it  to  release.  The  —  130-volt  disconnect  signal  is  applied  during  the 
release  time  of  the  slow  release  relay  which  is  long  enough  to  insure  the 
release  of  the  crosspoint  relay  at  the  concentrator. 

The  release  circuit  is  individual  to  the  trunk  and  independent  of  the 
signal  sent  over  the  control  pairs. 

g.  Pulse  Signalling  Circuits 

To  control  the  concentrator  four  distinct  pulse  signals  are  transmitted 
from  the  central  office.  Two  of  these  at  times  must  be  transmitted 
simultaneously,  bvit  these  and  the  other  two  are  transmitted  mutually 
exclusively.  In  addition,  service  request  and  line  busy  signals  are  trans- 
mitted from  the  concentrator  to  the  central  office.  The  two  way  trans- 
mission of  information  is  accomplished  on  each  pair  by  sending  signals  in 
each  direction  at  different  times  and  inhibiting  the  receipt  of  signals 
when  others  are  being  transmitted. 

To  transmit  four  signals  over  two  such  pairs,  both  positive  and  nega- 


CONTROL 
PAIR  NO.  1 


VF 


M 


LB 


D 


SR 


-16V 


VG 


CONTROL 
PAIR  NO.  2 


16  V 


M 


CONCENTRATOR 
AMPLIFIERS 


I 


CENTRAL  OFFICE 

AMPLIFIERS 

PER   CONCENTRATOR 


Fig.  15.  —  Signal  transmission  circuit. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR  269 

tive  pulses  are  employed.  Diodes  are  placed  in  the  legs  of  a  center  tapped 
transformer,  as  shown  in  Fig.  15,  to  select  the  polarity  of  the  trans- 
mitted pulses.  At  the  receiving  end  the  desired  polarity  is  detected  by 
taking  the  signal  as  a  positive  pulse  from  a  properly  poled  winding  of  a 
transformer.  The  amplifier,  as  described  in  Section  6c  responds  only  to 
positive  pulses.  If  pulses  of  the  same  polarity  are  transmitted  in  the 
other  direction  over  the  same  pair,  as  for  control  pair  No.  1,  the  outputs 
of  the  receiving  amplifier  for  the  same  polarity  pulse  are  inhibited 
whenever  a  pulse  is  transmitted. 

As  shown  in  Fig.  15,  the  service  request  and  line  busy  signals  are 
transmitted  from  the  concentrator  to  the  central  office  over  one  pair  of 
conductors  as  positive  and  negative  pulses  respectivel3^  The  trans- 
mission of  these  pulses  gates  the  outputs  of  two  of  the  receiving  ampli- 
fiers at  the  concentrator  to  permit  the  receipt  of  the  polarized  signals 
from  the  central  office.  This  prevents  the  pulses  from  being  used  at  the 
sending  end.  A  similar  gating  arrangement  is  used  with  respect  to  the 
signals  when  sent  over  this  control  pair  from  the  central  office.  The  pulses 
designated  VG  or  RS  never  occur  when  a  pulse  designated  SR  or  LB 
is  sent  in  the  opposite  direction.  The  transmission  of  the  VF  pulse  over 
control  pair  No.  2  is  processed  by  the  concentrator  circuit  and  becomes 
the  SR  or  LB  pulses.  Li  section  7  the  purpose  of  these  pulses  is  described. 

The  signaling  range  objective  is  1,200  ohms  over  regular  exchange 
area  cable  including  loaded  facilities  from  sfation  to  central  office. 

h.  Power  Supply 

Alternating  current  is  supplied  to  the  concentrator  from  a  continuous 
service  bus  in  the  central  office.  The  power  supply  path  is  a  phantom 
circuit  on  the  two  control  pairs  as  shown  in  Fig.  16.  The  power  trans- 
former has  four  secondary  windings  used  for  deriving  from  bridge 
rectifiers  four  basic  dc  voltages.  These  voltages  and  their  uses  are  as 
fofiows:  —16  volts  (regulated)  for  transistor  collector  circuits  and  gate 
biases,  -|-5  volts  (regulated)  for  transistor  base  biases,  -|-30  volts  (regu- 

,  lated)  for  crosspoints  holding  circuits  and  —  65  volts  for  the  marking  and 
operating  of  the  line  crosspoints.  For  this  latter  function  a  reference  to 
the  central  office  applied  -flOO  volt  trunk  mark  is  necessary.  The  refer- 
ence ground  for  the  concentrator  is  derived  from  ground  applied  to  a 
simplex  circuit  on  the  power  supply  phantom  circuit.  Series  transistors 
and  shunt  silicon  diodes  with  fixed  reference  breakdown  voltages  are 

I  used  to  regulate  dc  voltages. 


270  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Total  power  consumption  of  the  concentrator  is  between  5  and  8  watts 
depending  upon  the  number  of  connections  being  held. 

7.    CONCENTRATOR    OPERATION 

a.  Line  Scanning 

The  sixty  lines  are  divided  into  12  groups  of  5  lines  each.  These  group- 
ings are  designated  VG  and  VF  respectively  corresponding  to  the 
vertical  group  and  file  designations  used  in  the  No.  5  crossbar  system. 
Each  concentrator  corresponds  to  a  horizontal  group  in  that  system. 

To  scan  the  lines  two  transistor  ring  counters,  one  of  12  stages  and 
one  of  5  stages,  are  employed  as  shown  in  Fig.  17.  These  counters  are 
driven  from  pulses  supplied  from  the  central  office  control  circuits  and 
only  one  stage  in  each  is  on  at  any  one  time.  The  steps  and  combinations 
of  these  counters  correspond  to  the  group  and  file  designation  of  a  par- 
ticular line.  Each  0.002  second  the  five  stage  counter  (VF)  takes  a 
step  and  between  the  fifth  and  sixth  pulse  the  r2-stage  counter  (VG) 
is  stepped.  Thus  the  5-stage  counter  receives  60  pulses  or  re-cycles  12 
times  in  120  milliseconds  while  the  12-stage  counter  cycles  but  once. 

Each  line  is  provided  with  a  scanner  gate.  The  collector  output  of  each 
each  stage  of  the  VG  counter  biases  this  gate  to  enable  pulses  which 
are  generated  by  the  collector  circuit  of  the  5-stage  counter  to  pass  on 


-65V 


+  30V 


+  SV 


-I6V 


115  V 
AC 


MOTOR 
GENERATOR 


TO 

COMMERCIAL 

AC 


REGULATORS 


Fig.  16  —  Power  supply  transmission  circuit. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED   LINE   CONCENTRATOR 


271 


to  the  gate  of  the  passive  line  circuit,  Fig.  3(b).  If  the  line  is  idle  the 
pulses  are  inhibited.  If  the  receiver  is  off-hook  requesting  service  (no 
(•rosspoint  closed)  then  the  gate  is  enabled,  the  pulse  passes  to  the  service 
request  amplifier  and  back  to  the  central  office  in  the  same  time  slot 
as  the  pulse  which  stepped  the  VF  counter.  If  the  line  has  a  receiver 
off-hook  and  is  connected  to  a  trunk  the  pulse  passes  through  a  contact 
of  the  crosspoint  relay  to  the  line  busy  amplifier  and  then  to  the  central 
office  in  the  same  time  slot. 

At  the  end  of  each  complete  cycle  a  reset  pulse  is  sent  from  the  central 
office.  This  pulse  instead  of  the  VG  pulse  places  the  12-stage  counter  in 
its  first  position.  It  also  repulses  the  5  stage  VF  counter  to  its  fifth  stage 
so  that  the  next  VF  pulse  will  turn  on  its  first  stage  to  start  the  next 

j  cycle.  The  reset  pulse  insures  that,  in  event  of  a  lost  pulse  or  defect  in 
a  counter  stage,  the  concentrator  will  attempt  to  give  continuous  ser- 
\'ice  without  dependence  on  maintaining  synchronism  with  the  central 

I  office  scanner  pulse  generator.  Fig.  18(a)  shows  the  normal  sequence  of 

I  line  scanning  pulses. 

,      When  a  service  request  pulse  is  generated,  the  central  office  circuits 


t] 


04 


r 


VF  5- STAGE 
COUNTER 


03 


TO  10 

INTERMEDIATE 

GATES  EACH 

V 


02 


I 


01 


00 


TO  5  GATES  EACH 
I 


1       23456       789      10 
I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I 

I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I 


VG  12-STAGE   COUNTER 


59\ 


58 


57 


56 


55 


GATE    PER    LINE 

■  FEEDS    PASSIVE 

LINE   CIRCUITS 


/ 


VG 


RESET 
VF 


FROM 

CENTRAL 

OFFICE 


Fig.  17  —  Diode  matrix  for  scanning  lines. 


272  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

common  to  10  concentrators  interrupt  the  further  transmission  of  the 
vertical  group  pulse  so  that  the  line  scanning  is  confined  to  the  5  lines 
in  the  vertical  group  in  which  the  call  originated.  In  this  way  the  cen- 
tral office  will  receive  a  service  request  pulse  at  least  every  0.010  sec  as 
a  check  that  the  call  has  not  been  abandoned  while  awaiting  service. 
Fig.  18(b)  shows  the  detection  of  a  call  origination  and  the  several 
short  scan  cycles  for  abandoned  call  detection. 

b.  Line  Selection 

When  the  central  office  is  ready  to  establish  a  connection  at  the  con- 
centrator a  reset  pulse  is  sent  to  return  the  counters  to  normal.  In  gen- 
eral, the  vertical  group  and  vertical  file  pulses  are  sent  simultaneously 
to  reduce  holding  time  of  the  central  office  equipment  and  to  minimize 
marker  delays  caused  by  this  operation.  For  this  reason  the  VG  and  VF 
pulses  are  each  transmitted  over  different  control  pairs  from  the  central 
office.  The  same  polarity  is  used. 

On  originating  calls  it  is  desirable  to  make  one  last  check  that  the 
call  has  not  been  abandoned,  while  on  terminating  calls  it  is  necessary 

L* 120MS >| 

■M       k-2MS  I 

PULSE     ' 

012340123401234      0123401234 


VF  - 

VG 
LB 
RS 


J__l I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 I I I I 1 I L 

1^ \1 ^ 


(a)  REGULAR    LINE    SCANNING 


VF 


123401   23401   23401   2340123401 
_l_l 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I L_l I I I I 


,5  ,6 

VG 1 1 — 


LB- 

RS- 

SR- 

M- 


(b)  CALL    ORIGINATION    SERVICE    REQUEST    FROM    LINE    6/3 

12                             3                 0     1 
I I I I I 


VG- 

LB 

RS — 1>- 

SR h 


1°    1'    1^   |3   1^  1^  1^ 


jLi. 


M  - 


H^-l^-- 


"7 

RESULTS     FROM    CONC     CONTROL  RECEIVED         'OPERATE        ""CROSSPOINT           'NORMAL  SCANNING 

CKT    AT    CENTRAL   OFFICE  ONLY     IF         CROSSPOINT           CLOSURE                           IS   RESUMED 

RECEIVING    FROM    MKR      VG ,  LINE    6/3    HAS                                     INDICATION 

VF,  HG    INFORMATION  BECOME     BUSY 


(C)  LINE    SELECTION    FOR    LINE    6/3 


Fig.  18  —  Pulse  sequences,  (a)  Regular,  (b)  Call  origination,  (c)  Line  selection. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR  273 

to  determine  if  the  line  is  busy  or  idle.  These  conditions  are  determined 
in  the  same  manner  as  described  for  line  scanning  since  a  service  re- 
quest condition  would  still  prevail  on  the  line  if  the  call  was  not  aban- 
doned. If  the  line  was  busy,  a  line  busy  condition  would  be  detected. 
However  to  detect  these  conditions  a  VF  pulse  must  be  the  last  pulse 
transmitted  since  the  stepping  of  the  VF  counter  generates  the  pulse 
which  is  transmitted  through  an  enabled  line  selection  and  passive 
line  circuit  gates.  Fig.  18(c)  shows  a  typical  line  selection  where  the  num- 
ber of  VF  pulses  is  equal  to  or  less  than  the  number  of  VG  pulses.  In 
all  other  cases  there  is  no  conflict  and  the  sending  of  the  last  VF  pulse 
need  not  be  delayed.  On  terminating  calls,  the  line  busy  indication  is 
returned  to  the  central  office  within  0.002  sec  after  the  selection  is  com- 
plete. During  selections  the  central  office  circuits  are  gated  to  ignore 
any  extraneous  service  request  or  line  busy  pulses  produced  as  a  result 
of  steps  of  the  VF  counter  prior  to  its  last  step. 

c.  Crosspoint  Operation  and  Check 

Associated  with  each  concentrator  transistor  counter  stage  is  a  reed 
relay.  These  relays  are  connected  to  the  transistor  collector  circuits 
through  diodes  of  the  counter  stages  when  relay  M  operates.  The  con- 
tacts of  these  reed  relays  are  arranged  in  a  selection  circuit  as  shown 
in  Fig.  19  and  apply  the  —65  volt  mark  potential  to  the  crosspoint 
relays  of  the  selected  line. 

After  a  selection  is  made  as  described  above  a  "mark"  pulse  is  sent 
from  the  central  office.  This  pulse  is  transmitted  as  a  pulse  of  a  different 
polarity  over  the  same  control  pair  as  the  VF  pulses.  The  received 
pulse  after  amplification  actuates  a  transistor  bistable  circuit  w^hich  has 
the  M  reed  relay  permanently  connected  in  its  collector  circuit.  The 
bi-stable  circuit  holds  the  M  relay  operated  during  the  crosspoint  opera- 
tion to  maintain  one  VF  and  one  VG  relay  operated,  thereby  applying 
—  65  volts  to  mark  and  operate  one  of  the  6  crosspoint  relays  of  the 
selected  line  as  described  in  section  6e,  and  shown  on  Fig.  13. 

The  operation  and  locking  of  the  crosspoint  relay  with  the  marking 
potentials  still  applied  enables  a  pulse  gate  associated  with  the  holding 
circuit  of  the  crosspoint  relays  in  each  trunk  circuit.  The  mark  pulses 
are  sent  out  continuously.  This  does  not  affect  the  bi-stable  transistor 
circuit  once  it  has  triggered  but  the  mark  pulse  is  transmitted  through 
the  enabled  crosspoint  closure  check  gate  shown  in  Fig.  20  and  back 
to  the  central  office  as  a  line  busy  signal. 

With  the  receipt  of  the  crosspoint  closure  check  signal  the  sending 


274  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

of  the  mark  pulses  is  stopped  and  a  reset  pulse  is  sent  to  the  concentra- 
tor to  return  the  mark  bi-stable  circuit,  counters  and  all  operated  selec- 
tor relays  to  normal.  The  concentrator  remains  in  this  condition  until 
it  is  resynchronized  with  the  regular  line  scanning  cycle. 

A  complete  functional  schematic  of  the  concentrator  integrating  the 
circuits  described  above  is  shown  in  Fig.  21.  Fig.  22(a)  and  (b)  show  an 
experimental  concentrator  built  for  field  tests. 

8.    CENTRAL   OFFICE    CIRCUITS 

The  central  office  circuits  for  controling  one  or  more  concentrators 
are  composed  of  wire  spring  relays  as  well  as  transistors,  diode  and  reed 


VG 


RS 


VF 


M 


-20V 


-20  V 
o- 


VF-5  STAGE 
COUNTER 


r 


-65V 


n 


04 


03 


02 


00 


6  RELAY      I        W-,  wo  w<-  ,^,  -o  p 

PACKAGE  J     '-|„p_„p_^_p-_-p-^Ui 


TO  CONTACTS  OF   4 
INTERMEDIATE   RELAYS 


6  RELAY 
PACKAGE 


TO   CONTACTS  OF   4     . 
INTERMEDIATE   RELAYS 


n 


L 


59 


n 


58 


i^ 


34     33     32     31      30         , 


29     28     27     26     25  I     5^ 


57      56     55 


TO  4 

INTERMEDIATE 

RELAYS 


'     0 

-/ *■ 


I 


I     I       2 


b^'" 


/  7_ 
8_ 
9 

10 


cr 

LU 

h- 

z 

o 
o 


< 

I- 

OJ 

I 

(J 
> 


I 


TO    4 
INTERMEDIATE      il 
RELAYS 


P^ig.  19  —  Line  selection  and  marking. 


I 


REMOTE   CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


275 


relay  packages  similar  to  those  used  in  the  concentrator.  The  reed 
relays  are  energized  by  transistor  bi-stable  circuits  in  the  same  manner 
as  described  in  Section  7c.  The  reed  relay  contacts  in  turn  operate  wire 
spring  relays  or  send  the  dc  signals  directly  to  the  regular  No.  5  crossbar 
marker  and  line  link  marker  connector  circuits. 

Fig.  23  shows  a  block  diagram  of  the  central  office  circuits.  A  small 
amount  of  circuitry  is  provided  for  each  concentrator.  It  consists  of  the 
following: 

1.  The  trunk  connecting  crossbar  switch  and  associated  slow  relays 
for  disconnect  control. 

2.  The  concentrator  control  triuik  circuits  and  associated  pulse  ampli- 
fiers. 

3.  An  originating  call  detector  to  identify  which  concentrator  among 
the  ten  served  by  the  frame  is  calling. 

4.  A  multicontact  relay  to  connect  the  circuits  individual  to  each 
concentrator  with  the  common  control  circuits  associated  with  the  line 
link  frame  and  markers. 

The  circuits  associated  with  more  than  one  concentrator  are  blocked 
out  in  the  lower  portion  of  Fig.  23.  Much  of  this  circuitry  is  similar  to 
the  relay  circuits  now  provided  on  regular  line  link  frames  in  the  No.  5 
crossbar  system.^  Only  those  portions  of  these  blocks  which  employ  the 
new  techniques  will  be  covered  in  more  detail.  These  portions  consist 
of  the  following: 

1.  The  scanner  pulse  generator. 

2.  The  originating  line  number  register. 


T 


TO  ALL   TRUNK   LINES 
+  30V 


A/vV 


U 


j^Wv- 


-65V 


T 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

CONCENTRATOR 

TRUNK 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

i 


Fig.  20  —  Crosspoint  closure  check. 


aoidzio  nvbiNBo  oi 
iinoaio  ONnvNois  via 


276 


Fig.  22(a)  —  Complete  line  concentrator  unit. 

r 5 -STAGE   COUNTER 

12 -STAGE  COUNTER 


-fO  TRUNK   CiftCUITS 

AMPLIFIERS 
RECTIFIERS 


Fig.  22(b)  —  Identification  of  units  within  the  line  concentrator. 

277 


a. 

Q-tU 
O 

z 
o 
o 

1 


2 


o< 

z 

o 


CO 

UJ      O 

<:^ 

o:     u 
tu     z 

D.      o 

(J 


UJ£t  Q. 

10 


I 


^-; 


C-: 


0    n 


W 


liJO 

IOq 
Q 


I 
I 

I 
J 


o 


o 

LJJ 


o 
u 

a. 
o 

^ 
cc 

I- 
z 

UJ 

o 

z 
o 
u 


Z  111 
Di- 
ce I- 
l-< 


>^av/^l 


Asng 


i3S3a 


9A 


dA 


VAVVV 


tr 

zy= 
Di- 

CEZ 

I-LIJ 


Nl 


9H 


lAIS 


"11 


Z 

CEUJ 

I 1 

UJ 
CO 


S3 


(O 


u 


90 


ui- 

UJ  z 
-lO 

ujo 
(/I 


Hj 


UJ(- 

ZU 

-iUJ 


9A 


HH 


dA 


d:     p 

uJuJt; 

z  -id: 

<  DUJ 

en       "J 


;  <  UJ 


CC 
O 


O  UJ 

zmCE 

^UjS 

cc  2  cc 
On 


IdA 


cc 
o 

I- 

O 
UJ 

z 
z 

O 
O 


< 

CC 
U. 

z 
_J 


UJ 

^^ 

1- 
O 

u 
o 

_l 

UJUJ 

^tr 

oruj 

<u. 

^Si 

Q. 

tn 

IT 
UJ 

:£. 

.CC 

< 

2 

o 

I- 


3A 


IS 


i9H 


F-^: 


I  I 


a0J.VdlN33N00    Oi 


§(0 

u 


cc 
o 

I- 

?i 

UJ  O 

zO 
-Jq: 

CC 

< 

2 


278 


REMOTE   CONTROLLED    LINE   CONCENTRATOR 


279 


3.  The  line  selection  circuit. 

4.  The  trunk  identifier  and  selection  relay  circuits. 

(For  an  understanding  of  how  these  frame  circuits  work  through  the  line 
(link  marker  connector  and  markers  in  the  No.  5  system,  the  reader 
should  consult  the  references.) 

The  common  central  office  circuits  will  be  described  first. 


a.  Scanner  Pulse  Generator 

The  scanner  pulse  generator,  shown  in  Fig.  24,  produces  continuously 
the  combination  of  VG,  VF  and  RS  or  reset  pulses,  described  in  connec- 
tion with  Fig.  18(a),  required  to  drive  the  scanners  for  a  number  of 
concentrators.  The  primary  pulse  source  is  a  1,000-cycle  transistor 
oscillator.  This  oscillator  drives  a  transistor  bi-stable  circuit  arranged 
as  a  binary  counter  such  that  on  each  cycle  of  the  oscillator  output  it 
alternately  assumes  one  of  its  states.  Pulses  produced  by  one  state  drive 
a  5-stage  counter.  Pulses  produced  by  the  other  state  through  gates 
drive  a  12-stage  counter. 

The  pulses  which  drive  the  5-stage  counter  are  the  same  pulses  which 
are  used  for  the  VF  pulses  to  drive  scanners.  Each  time  the  first  stage 
of  the  5-stage  counter  is  on,  a  gate  is  opened  to  allow  a  pulse  to  drive 
the  12-stage  counter.  The  pulses  which  drive  the  12-stage  counter  are 
also  the  pulses  used  as  the  VG  pulses  for  driving  the  scanners.  They 
are  out  of  phase  with  the  VF  pulses. 

When  the  last  stage  of  the  12-stage  counter  is  on,  the  gate  which 


r  VFC 


Fig.  24  —  Scanner  pulse  generator. 


280 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    195(5 


transmits  pulses  to  the  12-stage  counter  is  closed  and  another  gate  is 
opened  which  produces  the  reset  pulse.  The  reset  pulse  is  thereby  trans- 
mitted to  the  scanners  in  place  of  the  first  vertical  group  pulse.  At  the 
same  time  the  5  and  12-stage  counters  in  the  scanner  pulse  generator 
are  reset  to  enable  the  starting  of  a  new  cycle. 

In  the  central  office  control  circuits,  out  of  phase  pulses  on  lead  TP 
similar  to  those  which  drive  the  VG  counters  at  the  concentrator  are 
used  for  various  gating  operations. 

b.  The  Originating  Call  Detection  and  Line  Number  Registration 

The  originating  call  detector  (Fig.  25)  and  the  originating  line  num- 
ber register  (Fig.  26)  together  receive  the  information  from  the  line 
concentrator  used  to  identify  the  number  of  the  line  making  a  service  i 
request.  The  receipt  of  the  service  request  pulse  from  a  concentrator  i 
in  a  particular  time  slot  will  set  a  transistor  bi-stable  circuit  HGT  of  { 
Fig.  25  associated  with  that  concentrator  if  no  other  originating  call  is 
being  served  by  the  frame  circuits  at*  this  time. 

The  originating  line  number  register  consists  of  a  5  and  12-stage 
counter.  These  counters  are  normally  driven  through  gates  in  syn- 
chronism with  the  scanning  counters  at  concentrators  with  pulses  sup- 
plied from  the  scanner  pulse  generator.  When  a  service  request  pulse 
is  received  from  any  of  the  concentrators  served  by  a  line  link  frame,  a 
pulse  is  sent  to  the  originating  line  number  register  which  operates  a 
bi-stable  circuit  over  a  lead  RH  in  Fig.  26.  This  bi-stable  circuit  then 
closes  the  gates  through  which  the  5-  and  12-stage  counters  are  being 
driven,  and  also  closes  a  gate  which  prevents  them  from  being  reset. 


TO   TRAFFIC  I 
RECORDER   I 


TO  ORIGINATING 
CALL    REGISTER 


I  TO   CONCENTRATOR 
I     CONTROL  TRUNK 


Fig.  25  —  Originating  call  detector. 


EEMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


281 


In  this  way,  the  number  of  the  line  which  originated  a  service  request  is 
locked  into  these  counters  until  the  bi-stable  circuit  is  restored  to  nor- 
mal. 

The  HGT  bi-stable  circuit  of  Fig.  25  indicates  which  particular  con- 
centrator has  originated  a  service  request.  A  relay  in  the  collector  cir- 
cuit has  contacts  which  pass  this  information  on  to  the  other  central 
office  control  circuits  to  indicate  the  number  of  the  concentrator  on  the 
frame  which  is  requesting  service.  This  is  the  same  as  a  horizontal  group 
on  a  regular  line  link  frame  and  hence  the  horizontal  group  designation 
is  used  to  identify  a  concentrator. 

With  the  operation  of  this  relay,  relays  associated  with  the  counters 
of  the  originating  line  number  register  are  operated.  These  relays  indicate 
to  the  other  central  office  circuits  the  vertical  file  and  vertical  group 
identification  of  the  calling  line.  Contacts  on  the  vertical  group  relays 
are  used  to  set  a  bi-stable  circuit  associated  with  lead  RL  of  Fig.  25  each 
time  the  scanner  pulse  generator  generates  a  pulse  corresponding  to  the 
vertical  file  of  the  calling  line  number  registered. 

The  operation  of  the  HGT  bi-stable  circuit  inhibits  in  the  concentra- 
tor control  trunk  circuit  (Fig.  27)  the  transmission  of  further  VG  and 

SRS 


FROM 
CONCENTRATOR 

CONTROL 
TRUNK  CIRCUIT 


RB 
RH 


RH 


FROM 
SCANNER 

PULSE 
GENERATOR 


VF 


VFO-4 
VG 


RS 


1 


*"        5-STAGE  COUNTER        ^ 


12-STAGE   COUNTER 


^        ^ 


Fig.  26  —  Originating  line  number  register. 


282  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

reset  pulses  to  the  concentrator  so  that,  as  described  in  Section  7a, 
only  the  VF  counter  continues  to  step  once  each  0.010  sec.  So  long  as 
the  line  continues  to  request  service  this  service  request  pulse  is  gated 
to  reset  the  RL  bi-stable  circuit  within  the  same  time  slot  that  it  was 
set.  If,  however,  a  request  for  service  is  abandoned  the  RL  bi-stable  cir- 
cuit of  Fig.  26  will  remain  on  and  permit  a  TP  pulse  from  the  scanner 
pulse  generator  to  reset  the  HGT  bi-stable  circuit  which  initiated  the 
service  request  action. 

Whenever  the  RH  bi-stable  circuit  of  Fig.  26  is  energized  it  closes  a 
gate  over  lead  SRS  for  each  concentrator  to  prevent  any  further  service 
request  pulses  from  being  recognized  until  the  originating  call  which 
has  been  registered  is  served.  The  resetting  of  the  RH  bi-stable  circuit 
occurs  once  the  call  has  been  served.  When  more  than  one  line  concen- 
trator is  being  served  it  is  possible  that  the  HGT  bi-stable  circuit  of 
more  than  one  concentrator  will  be  set  simultaneously  as  a  result  of 
coincidence  in  service  requests  from  correspondingly  numbered  lines  in 
these  concentrators.  The  decision  as  to  which  concentrator  is  to  be 
served  is  left  to  the  marker,  as  it  would  normally  decide  which  horizontal 
group  to  serve. 

c.  Line  Selection 

On  all  calls,  originating  and  terminating,  the  marker  transmits  to  the 
frame  circuits  the  complete  identity  of  the  line  which  it  will  serve.  In 
the  case  of  originating  calls  it  has  received  this  information  in  the  manner 
described  in  Section  8b.  In  either  case,  it  operates  wire  spring  relays 
VGO-U  and  VFO-4,  which  enable  gates  so  that  the  information  may  be 
stored  in  the  5-  and  12-stage  counters  of  the  line  selection  circuit  shown  " 
in  Fig.  28. 

The  process  of  reading  into  the  line  selection  counters  starts  when 
selection  information  has  been  received  by  the  actuation  of  the  HGS 
bi-stable  circuit  in  the  concentrator  control  trunk  circuit  of  Fig.  27. 
This  action  stops  the  regular  transmission  of  scanner  pulses  if  they 
have  not  been  stopped  as  a  result  of  a  call  origination.  At  the  same  time 
it  enables  gates  for  transmission  of  information  from  the  line  selection 
circuit.  Fig.  28. 

The  ST  bi-stable  circuit  of  the  line  selection  circuit  is  also  enabled 
to  start  the  process  of  setting  the  line  selection  counters.  The  next  TP 
pulse  sets  the  Rl  bi-stable  circuit.  This  bi-stable  circuit  enables  a  gate 
which  permits  the  next  TP  pulse  to  set  the  counters  and  transmit  a  re- 
set pulse  to  the  concentrator  through  pulse  amplifier  RIA.  At  the  same 
time  bi-stable  circuit  ST  is  reset  to  prevent  the  further  read-in  cr  reset 


\ 


REMOTE   CONTROLLED   LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


283 


pulses  and  to  permit  pulses  through  amplifier  OPA  to  start  the  out- 
pulsing  of  line  selections.  These  pulses  pass  to  the  VGP  and  VFP  leads 
as  long  as  the  VG  and  VF  line  selection  counters  have  not  reached 
their  first  and  last  stages  respectively.  The  output  pulses  to  the  con- 
centrator are  also  fed  into  the  drive  leads  of  these  counters  so  that,  as 
the  counters  in  the  concentrator  are  stepped  up,  the  counters  in  the 
central  office  line  selection  circuit  are  stepped  down.  When  the  first 
stage  of  the  VF  counter  goes  on,  the  VF  pulses  are  no  longer  transmitted 
until  the  first  stage  of  the  VG  counter  goes  on.  This  insures  that  a  VF 
pulse  is  the  last  to  be  transmitted.  Also  this  pulse  is  not  transmitted 
until  the  other  frame  circuits  have  successfully  completed  selections  of 
an  idle  concentrator  trunk.  Then  bi-stable  circuit  VFLD  is  energized, 


TO   ORIGINATING 

CALL   DETECTOR 

I 


VF- 

FROM 
VG   U    SCANNER 
PULSE 
GENERATOR 


FROM    LINE 
[-SELECTION 
CIRCUIT 


Fig.  27  —  Concentrator  control  trunk  circuit. 


284 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


producing,  during  its  transition,  the  last  VF  pulse  for  transmission  to 
the  concentrator. 


d.  Trunk  Selection  and.  Identification 

The  process  of  selecting  an  idle  concentrator  trunk  to  which  the  line 
has  access  utilizes  familar  relay  circuit  techniques.^^  This  circuit,  in 
Fig.  29,  will  not  be  described  in  detail.  One  trunk  selection  relay,  TS,  is 
operated  indicating  the  preferred  idle  trunk  serving  a  line  in  the  particu- 
lar vertical  group  being  selected  as  indicated  by  the  VG  relay  which 
has  been  operated  by  the  marker. 

The  TS4  and  TS5  relays  select  trunks  8  and  9  which  are  available  to 
each  line  while  the  4  trunks  available  to  only  half  of  the  lines  are  selected 
by  relays  TS0-TS3.  The  busy  or  idle  condition  of  each  trunk  is  indicated 
by  a  contact  on  the  hold  magnet  associated  with  each  trunk  through 


TRUNK 
SELECTION 
COMPLETE  T 


VFLD 


_l 
O 

cr 

I- 
z 
Oh 

^5 
tr  u 
O  cr 


Z  : 

LU  : 

^! 

o 
o 

o 

t- 


VFP 


VGP_ 
RS 


VFLI 


VFL  2 


0-1 


5-STAGE   COUNTER 


VF4X  -2V 


VGO 


y^ 


12-STAGE   COUNTER 


0-0 


ST 


OPA 


R1A 


ST 


FROM   SCANNER 
PULSE   GENERATOR  I 


TP 


Fig.  28  —  Line  selection  circuit. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


285 


relay  HG  which  operates  on  all  originating  and  terminating  calls  to  the 
particular  concentrator  served  by  these  trunks.  The  end  chain  relay 
TC  of  the  lockout  trunk  selection  circuit^^  connects  battery  from  the 
SR  relay  windings  of  idle  trunks  to  the  windings  of  the  TS  relays  to 
permit  one  of  the  latter  relays  to  operate  and  to  steer  circuits,  not  shown 
on  Fig.  29,  to  the  hold  magnet  of  the  trunk  and  to  the  tip-and-ring  con- 
ductors of  the  trunk  to  apply  the  selection  voltages  shown  on  Figs.  13 
and  14. 

The  path  for  operating  the  hold  magnet  originates  in  the  marker. 
The  path  looks  like  that  which  the  marker  uses  on  the  line  hold  mag- 
net when  setting  up  a  call  on  a  regular  line  link  frame.  For  this  reason 
and  other  similar  reasons  this  concentrator  line  link  frame  concept  has 
been  nicknamed  the  "fool-the-marker"  scheme. 

Should  a  hold  magnet  release  while  a  new  call  is  being  served  the 
ground  from  the  TC  relaj^  normal  or  the  TS  relay  winding  holds  relay 


CONCENTRATOR    TRUNK 
SWITCH   CROSSPOINTS 


SR  [ 


LINE    LINK 
NUMBER    FROM 
MARKER  I 


-48  V 


Fig.  29  —  Trunk  selection  and  identification. 


286  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


SR  operated  through  its  own  contact  until  the  new  call  has  been  set  up. 
This  prevents  interference  of  disconnect  pulses  applied  to  the  trunk 
when  a  selection  is  being  made  and  insures  that  a  disconnect  pulse  is 
transmitted  before  the  trunk  is  reused. 

A  characteristic  of  the  No.  5  crossbar  system  is  that  the  originating 
connection  to  a  call  register  including  the  line  hold  magnet  is  released 
and  a  new  connection,  known  as  the  "call  back  connection",  is  estab- 
lished to  connect  the  line  to  a  trunk  circuit  after  dialing  is  completed. 

With  concentrator  operation  the  concentrator  trunk  switch  connection 
is  released  but  the  disconnect  signal  is  not  sent  to  the  concentrator  as 
a  result  of  holding  the  SR  relay  as  described  above.  However,  the  marker 
does  not  know  to  which  trunk  the  call  back  connection  is  to  be  estab- 
lished. For  this  reason  the  frame  circuits  include  an  identification  proc- 
ess for  determining  the  number  of  the  concentrator  trunk  to  be  used 
on  call  back  prior  to  the  release  of  the  originating  register  connection,  i 

Identification  is  accomplished  by  the  marker  transmitting  to  the 
frame  circuits  the  number  of  the  link  being  used  on  the  call.  This  in- 
formation is  already  available  in  the  No.  5  system.  The  link  being  used 
is  marked  with  —48  volts  by  a  relay  selecting  tree^"  to  operate  the  TS 
relay  associated  with  the  trunk  to  which  the  call  back  connection  is  to 
be  established.  Relay  CB  (Fig.  29)  is  operated  on  this  type  of  call  in- 
stead of  relay  HG.  The  circuits  for  reoperating  the  proper  hold  magnet 
are  already  available  on  the  TS  relay  which  was  operated,  thereby  rc- 
selecting  the  trunk  to  which  the  customer  is  connected.  The  concen- 
trator connection  is  not  released  when  the  hold  magnet  releases  and 
again  the  marker  operates  as  it  would  on  a  regular  line  link  frame  call. 

9.    FIELD   TRIALS 

Three  sets  of  the  experimental  equipment  described  here  have  been 
constructed  and  placed  in  service  in  various  locations.  The  equipment 
for  these  trials  is  the  forerunner  of  a  design  for  production  which  will 
incorporate  device,  circuit  and  equipment  design  changes  based  on  the 
trial  experiences.  Fig.  30  shows  the  cabinet  mounted  central  office  trial 
equipment  with  the  designation  of  appropriate  parts. 

For  the  field  trials  described,  the  line  links  on  a  particular  horizontal 
level  of  existing  line  link  frames  were  extended  to  a  separate  cross-bar 
switch  provided  for  this  purpose  in  the  trial  equipment.  The  regular  line 
link  connector  circuits  were  modified  to  work  with  the  trial  control 
circuits  whenever  a  call  was  originated  or  terminated  on  this  level.  N(i 
lines  were  terminated  in  the  regular  primary  line  switches  for  this  level. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


287 


10.    MISCELLANEOUS   FEATURES   OF   TRIAL   EQUIPMENT 

There  are  a  number  of  auxiliary  circuits  provided  with  the  trial  equip- 
ment to  aid  in  the  solutions  of  problems  brought  about  by  the  concepts 
of  concentrator  service.  One  of  the  purposes  of  the  trials  was  to  deter- 
mine the  way  in  which  the  various  traffic,  plant  and  commercial  ad- 


CONCENTRATOR 
TRUNK  SWITCH 


SERVICE   OBSERVING 

TEST  CONTROL-] 

SIMULATOR 

TRUNK    DISCONNECT 
RELAYS 


CONCENTRATOR 
CONNECTOR  RELAYS 


FRAME   RELAY 
CIRCUITS 


SERVICE   DENIAL 


FRAME    ELECTRONIC 
CIRCUITS 


POWER   SUPPLY 


LINE   CONDITION 
TESTER 


Fig.  30  —  Trial  central  office  equipment. 


288  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

ministrative  functions  could  be  economically  performed  when  concen- 
trators become  common  telephone  plant  facilities.  The  more  important 
of  these  miscellaneous  features  are  discussed  under  the  following  head- 
ings : 

a.  Traffic  Recording 

J 
To  measure  the  amount  and  characteristics  of  the  traffic  handled  by 

the  concentrator  a  magnetic  tape  recorder,  Fig.  31,  was  provided  for 

each  trial.  The  number  of  the  lines  and  trunks  in  use  each  15  seconds 

during  programmed  periods  of  each  day  were  recorded  in  coded  form 

with  polarized  pulses  on  the  3-track  magnetic  tape  moving  at  a  speed  of 

1}/2"  per  second.  Combinations  of  these  pulses  designate  trunks  busy  on 

intra-concentrator  connections  and  reverting  calls. 

The  line  busy  indications  were  derived  directly  from  the  line  busy 
information  received  during  regular  scanning  at  the  concentrator.  Dur- 
ing one  cycle  in  each  15  seconds  new  service  requests  were  delayed  to 
insure  that  a  complete  scan  cycle  would  be  recorded.  Terminating  calls 
were  not  delayed  since  marker  holding  time  is  involved.  Trunk  condi- 
tions are  derived  for  a  trunk  scanner  provided  in  the  recorder. 

In  addition  to  recording  the  line  and  trunk  usage,  recordings  were 
made  on  the  tape  for  each  service  request  detected  during  a  programmed 
period  to  measure  the  speed  with  which  each  call  received  dial  tone 
and  the  manner  in  which  the  call  was  served.  In  this  type  of  operation 
the  length  of  the  recording  for  each  request  made  at  a  tape  speed  of 
only  \i!'  per  second  is  a  measure  of  service  delay  time. 

As  may  be  observed  from  Fig.  31  the  traffic  recorder  equipment  was 
built  with  vacuum  tubes  and  hence  required  a  rather  large  power  supply. 
It  is  expected  that  a  transistorized  version  of  this  traffic  recorder  serv- 
ing all  concentrators  in  a  central  office  will  be  included  in  the  standard 
model  of  the  line  concentrator  equipment.  With  this  equipment,  traffic 
engineers  will  know  more  precisely  the  degree  to  which  each  concentra-- 
tor  may  be  loaded  and  hence  insure  maximum  utilization  of  the  concen- 
trator equipment. 

b.  Line  Condition  Tester 

It  has  been  a  practice  in  more  modern  central  office  equipment  to 
include  automatic  line  testing  equipment.^^  An  attempt  has  been  made 
to  include  similar  features  with  the  concentrator  trial  equipment.  The 
line  condition  tester  (see  Fig.  30)  provides  a  means  for  automatically 
connecting  a  test  circuit  to  each  line  in  turn  once  a  test  cycle  has  been 


I 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR 


289 


!    ,        P  ]  'f 


^  u 


POWER  SUPPLIES 

AND 

PROGRAMMER 


I 


Fig.  31  —  Traffic  recorder. 


290  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

manually  initiated.  This  test  is  set  up  on  the  basis  of  the  known  concen- 
trator passive  line  circuit  capabilities.  Should  a  line  fail  to  pass  this 
test,  the  test  circuit  stops  its  progress  and  brings  in  an  alarm  to  summon 
central  office  maintenance  personnel.  The  facilities  of  the  line  tester  are 
also  used  to  establish,  under  manual  control,  calls  to  individual  lines  as 
required  to  carry  out  routine  tests. 

c.  Simulator 

As  the  central  office  sends  out  scanner  control  pulses  either  no  signal, 
a  line  busy  or  service  request  pulse  is  returned  to  the  central  office  in 
each  time  slot.  The  simulator  test  equipment,  shown  in  Fig.  30,  was 
designed  to  place  pulses  in  a  specific  time  slot  to  simulate  a  line  under 
test  at  the  concentrator. 

In  addition  to  transmitting  the  equivalent  of  concentrator  output 
pulses  the  simulator  can  receive  the  regular  line  selection  pulses  trans- 
mitted to  the  concentrator  for  purposes  of  checking  central  office  opera- 
tions. It  is  possible  by  combined  use  of  the  line  tester  and  simulator  to 
observe  the  operation  of  the  concentrator  and  to  determine  the  probable 
cause  when  a  fault  occurs. 

d.  Service  Observing 

The  removal  of  the  line  terminals  from  the  central  office  poses  a  num- 
ber of  problems  in  conjunction  with  the  administration  of  central  office 
equipment.  One  of  these  is  service  observing. 

To  maintain  a  check  on  the  quality  of  service  being  rendered  by  the 
telephone  system,  service  observing  taps  are  made  periodically  on  tele- 
phone lines.  This  is  normally  done  by  placing  special  connector  shoes 
on  line  terminations  in  the  central  office. 

To  place  such  shoes  at  the  remote  concentrator  point  would  lead  to 
administrative  difficulties  and  added  expense.  Therefore,  a  method  was 
devised  to  permit  service  observing  equipment  to  be  connected  to  con- 
centrator trunks  on  calls  from  specific  lines  which  were  to  be  observed. 
This  mcithod  consisted  of  manual  switches  on  which  were  set  the  number 
of  the  line  to  be  observed  in  terms  of  vertical  group  and  vertical  file. 
Whenever  this  line  originated  a  call  and  the  call  could  be  placed  over  the 
first  preferred  trunk,  automatic  connection  was  made  to  the  service  ob- 
serving desk  in  the  same  manner  as  would  occur  for  a  line  terminated 
directly  in  the  central  office. 

In  addition,  facilities  were  provided  for  trying  a  new  service  observ- 
ing technique  where  calls  originating  over  a  particular  concentrator 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED   LINE   CONCENTRATOR  291 

trunk  would  be  observed  without  knowledge  of  the  originating  line  num- 
ber. For  this  purpose  a  regular  line  observing  shoe  was  connected  to 
one  of  the  ten  concentrator  trunk  switch  verticals  in  the  trial  equipment 
and  from  here  connected  to  the  service  observing  desk  in  the  usual 
manner. 

The  basic  service  observing  requirements  in  connection  with  line 
concentrator  operation  have  not  as  yet  been  fully  determined.  How- 
ever, it  appears  at  this  time  that  the  trunk  observing  arrangement  may 
be  preferable. 

e.  Service  Denial 

In  most  systems  denial  of  originating  service  for  non-payment  of 
telephone  service  charges,  for  trouble  interception  and  for  permanent 
signals  caused  by  cable  failures  or  prolonged  receiver-off-hook  conditions 
may  be  treated  by  the  plant  forces  at  the  line  terminals  or  by  blocking 
the  line  relay.  To  avoid  concentrator  visits  and  to  enable  the  prompt 
clearing  of  trouble  conditions  which  tie  up  concentrator  trunks,  a  ser- 
vice denial  feature  has  been  included  in  the  design  of  the  central  office 
circuits. 

This  feature  consists  of  a  patch-panel  with  special  gate  cords  which 
respond  to  particular  time  slots  and  inhibit  service  request  signals  pro- 
duced by  a  concentrator  during  this  period.  In  this  way  service  requests 
can  be  ignored  and  prevent  originating  call  service  on  particular  lines 
until  a  trouble  locating  or  other  administrative  procedure  has  been 
invoked. 

f.  Display  Circuit 

A  special  electronic  switch  was  developed  for  an  oscilloscope.  This 
arrangement  permited  the  positioning  of  line  busy  and  service  request 
pulses  in  fixed  positions  representing  each  of  the  60  lines  served.  Line 
busy  pulses  were  shown  as  positive  and  service  request  pulses  as  negative. 
This  plug  connected  portable  aid,  see  Fig.  32,  was  useful  in  tracing  calls 
and  identifying  lines  to  which  service  may  be  denied,  due  to  the  existence 
of  permanent  signals. 

Other  circuits  and  features,  too  detailed  to  be  covered  in  this  paper, 
have  been  designed  and  used  in  the  field  trials  of  remote  line  concen- 
trators. Much  has  been  learned  from  the  construction  and  use  of  this 
equipment  which  will  aid  in  making  the  production  design  smaller, 
lighter,  economical,  serviceable  and  reliable. 

Results  from  the  field  trials  have  encouraged  the  prompt  undertaking 


292  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Fig.  32  —  Pulse  display  oscilloscope. 


REMOTE    CONTROLLED    LINE    CONCENTRATOR  293 

of  development  of  a  remote  line  concentrator  for  quantity  production. 
The  cost  of  remote  line  concentrator  equipment  will  determine  the  ul- 
timate demand.  In  the  meantime,  an  effort  is  being  made  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  field  trial  experiences  to  reduce  costs  commensurate  with 
insuring  reliable  service. 

The  author  wishes  to  express  his  appreciation  to  his  many  colleagues 
at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  whose  patience  and  hard  work  have 
been  responsible  for  this  new  adventure  in  exploratory  switching  de- 
velopment. An  article  on  line  concentrators  would  not  be  complete 
without  mention  of  C.  E.  Brooks  who  has  encouraged  this  development 
and  under  whose  direction  the  engineering  studies  were  made. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1.  E.  C.  Molina,  The  Theory  of  Probabilities  Applied  to  Telephone  Trunking 

Problems,  B.S.T.J.,  1,  pp.  69-81,  Nov.,  1922. 

2.  Strowger  Step-bv-Step  System,  Chapter  3,  Vol.  3,  Telephone  Theory  and 

Practice  by  K.B.  Miller.  McGraw-Hill  1933. 

3.  F.  A.  Korn  and  J.  G.  Ferguson,  Number  5  Crossbar  Dial  Telephone  Switching 

System,  Elec.  Engg.,  69,  pp.  679-684,  Aug.,  1950. 

4.  U.S.  Patent  1,125,965. 

5.  O.  Myers,  Common  Control  Telephone  Switching  Systems,  B.S.T.J.,  31,  pp. 

1086-1120,  Nov.,  1952. 

6.  L.  J.  Stacy,  Calling  Subscribers  to  the  Telephone,  Bell  Labs.  Record,  8,  pp. 

113-119,  Nov.,  1929. 

7.  J.  Meszar,  Fundamentals  of  the  Automatic  Telephone  Message  Accounting 

System,  A.  I.  E.  E.  Trans.,  69,  pp.  255-268,  (Part  1),  1950. 

8.  O.  M.  Hovgaard  and  G.  E.  Perreault,  Development  of  Reed  Switches  and 

Relays,  B.S.T.J.,  34,  pp.  309-332,  Mar.,  1955. 

9.  W.  A.  Malthaner  and  H.  E.  Vaughan,  Experimental  Electronically  Controlled 

Automatic  Switching  System,  B.  S.T.J.,  31,  pp.  443-468,  May,  1952. 

10.  S.  T.  Brewer  and  G.  Hecht,  A  Telephone  Switching  Network  and  its  Electronic 

Controls,  B.S.T.J.,  34,  pp.  361-402,  Mar.,  1955. 

11.  L.  W.  Hussey,  Semiconductor  Diode  Gates,  B.S.T.J.,  32,  pp.  1137-54,  Sept., 

1953. 

12.  U.  S.  Patent  1,528,982. 

13.  J.  J.  EbersandS.  L.  Miller,  Design  of  Alloyed  Junction  Germanium  Transis- 

tor for  High-Speed  Switching,  B. S.T.J. ,  34,  pp.  761-781,  July,  1955. 

14.  W.  B.  Graupner,  Trunking  Plan  for  No.  5  Crossbar  System,  Bell  Labs.  Record, 

27,  pp.  360  365,  Oct.,  1949. 

15.  G.  L.  Pearson  and  B.  Sawyer,  Silicon  p-n  Junction  Alloy  Diodes,  I.R.E.  Proc, 

42,  pp.  1348-1351,  Nov."  1952. 

16.  A.  E.  Anderson,  Transistors  in  Switching  Circuits,  B.S.T.J.,  31,  pp.  1207- 

1249,  Nov.,  1952. 

17.  J.  J.  Ebers  and  J.  L.  Moll,  Large-Signal  Behavior  of  Junction  Transistors, 

I.  R.  E.  Proc,  42,  pp.  1761-1784,  Dec,  1954. 

18.  J.  J.  Ebers,  Four-Terminal  p-n-p-n  Transistors,  I.  R.  E.  Proc,  42,  pp.  1361- 

1364,  Nov.,  1952. 

19.  A.  E.  Joel,  Relay  Preference  Lockout  Circuits  in  Telephone  Switching,  Trans. 

A.  L  E.  E.,  67,  pp.  720-725,  1948. 

20.  S.  H.  Washburn,  Relay  "Trees"  and  Symmetric  Circuits,  Trans.  A.  I.  E.  E., 

68,  pp.  571-597,  1949. 

21.  J.  W.  Dehn  and  R.  W.  Burns,  Automatic  Line  Insulation  Testing  Equipment 

for  Local  Crossbar  Systems,  B.S.T.J.,  32,  pp.  627-646,  1953. 


Transistor  Circuits  for  Analog  and 
Digital  Systems* 

By  FRANKLIN  H.  BLECHER 

(Manuscript  received  November  17,  1955) 

This  paper  describes  the  application  of  junction  transistors  to  precision 
circuits  for  use  in  analog  computers  and  the  input  and  output  circuits  of 
digital  systems.  The  three  basic  circuits  are  a  summing  amplifier,  an  inte- 
grator, and  a  voltage  comparator.  The  transistor  circuits  are  combined  into 
a  voltage  encoder  for  translating  analog  voltages  into  equivalent  time  inter- 
vals. 

1.0.   INTRODUCTION 

Transistors,  because  of  their  reliability,  small  power  consumption, 
and  small  size  find  a  natural  field  of  application  in  electronic  computers 
and  data  transmission  systems.  These  advantages  have  already  been 
realized  by  using  point  contact  transistors  in  high  speed  digital  com- 
puters. This  paper  describes  the  application  of  junction  transistors  to 
precision  circuits  which  are  used  in  dc  analog  computers  and  in  the 
input  and  output  circuits  of  digital  systems.  The  three  basic  circuits 
which  are  used  in  these  applications  are  a  summing  amplifier,  an  inte- 
grator, and  a  voltage  comparator.  A  general  procedure  for  designing 
these  transistor  circuits  is  given  with  particular  emphasis  placed  on  new 
design  methods  that  are  necessitated  by  the  properties  of  junction 
transistors.  The  design  principles  are  illustrated  by  specific  circuits. 
The  fundamental  considerations  in  the  design  of  transistor  operational 
amplifiers  are  discussed  in  Section  2.0.  In  Section  3.0  an  illustrative 
summing  amplifier  is  described,  which  has  a  dc  accuracy  of  better  than 
one  part  in  5,000  throughout  an  operating  temperature  range  of  0  to 
50°C.  The  feedback  in  this  amplifier  is  maintained  over  a  broad  enough 
frequency  band  so  that  full  accuracy  is  attained  in  about  100  micro- 
seconds. 

The  design  of  a  specific  transistor  integrator  is  presented  in  Section 

*  Submitted  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the  requirements  for  the  degree  of  Doctor 
of  Electrical  Engineering  at  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn. 

295 


296  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


I 


4.0.  The  integrator  can  be  used  to  generate  a  voltage  ramp  which  is 
linear  to  within  one  part  in  8,000.  By  means  of  an  automatic  zero  set 
(AZS)  circuit  which  uses  a  magnetic  detector,  the  slope  of  the  voltage 
ramp  is  maintained  constant  to  within  one  part  in  8,000  throughout  a 
temperature  range  of  20°C  to  40°C. 

The  voltage  comparator,  described  in  Section  5.0,  is  an  electrical  de- 
vice which  indicates  the  instant  of  time  an  input  voltage  waveform 
passes  through  a  predetermined  reference  level.  By  taking  advantage 
of  the  properties  of  semiconductor  devices,  the  comparator  can  be  de- 
signed to  have  an  accuracy  of  ±5  millivolts  throughout  a  temperature 
range  of  20°C  to  40°C. 

In  Section  6.0,  the  system  application  of  the  transistor  circuits  is 
demonstrated  by  assembling  the  summing  amplifier;  the  integrator,  and 
the  voltage  comparator  into  a  voltage  encoder.  The  encoder  can  be  used  J 
to  translate  an  analog  input  voltage  into  an  equivalent  time  interval 
with  an  accuracy  of  one  part  in  4,000.  This  accuracy  is  realized  through- 
out a  temperature  range  of  20°C  to  40°C  for  the  particular  circuits 
described. 

2.0.   FUNDAMENTAL    CONSIDERATIONS    IN    THE    DESIGN    OF    OPERATIONAL 
AMPLIFIERS 

The  basic  active  circuit  used  in  dc  analog  computers  is  a  direct  coupled 
negative  feedback  amplifier.  With  appropriate  input  and  feedback  net- 
works, the  amplifier  can  be  used  for  multiplication  by  a  constant  coef- 
ficient, addition,  integration,  or  differentiation  as  shown  in  Figure  1 
The  accuracy  of  an  operational  amplifier  depends  only  on  the  passive 
components  used  in  the  input  and  feedback  circuits  provided  that  there 
is  sufficient  negative  feedback  (usually  greater  than  60  db).  The  time 
that  is  required  for  the  amplifier  to  perform  a  calculation  is  an  inverse 
f miction  of  the  bandwidth  over  which  the  feedback  is  maintained. 
Thus  a  fundamental  problem  in  the  design  of  an  operational  amplifier 
is  the  development  of  sufficient  negative  feedback  over  a  reasonably 
broad  frequency  range.  The  associated  problem  is  the  realization  of 
satisfactory  stability  margins.  Finally  there  is  the  problem  of  reducing 
the  drift  which  is  inherent  in  direct  coupled  amplifiers  and  particularly 
troublesome  for  transistors  because  of  the  variation  in  their  character- 
istics with  temperature. 

The  first  step  in  the  design  is  the  blocking  out  of  the  configuration 
for  the  forward  gain  circuit  (designated  A  in  Fig.  1).  Three  primary  re- 
quirements must  be  satisfied: 

(1)  Stages  must  be  direct  coupled. 


TRANSISTOR    CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL    SYSTEMS 


297 


(2)  Amplifier  must  provide  one  net  phase  reversal. 

(3)  Amplifier  must  have  enough  current  gain  to  meet  accuracy  re- 
quirements. 

Three  possible  transistor  connections  are  available:  (a)  the  common 
base  connection  which  may  be  considered  analogous  to  the  common 
grid  vacuum  tube  connection;  (b)  the  common  emitter  connection 
which  is  analogous  to  the  common  cathode  connection;  and  (c)  the 
common  collector  connection  which  is  analogous  to  the  cathode  follower 
connection.  These  three  configurations  together  with  their  approximate 
equivalent  circuits  are  shown  in  Fig.  2.  It  has  been  shown^  that  for 
most  junction  transistors  the  circuit  element  a  is  given  by  the  expression 


a  =  sech 


W 


(1    +    PTrn) 


1/2 


(1)^ 


where  W  is  the  thickness  of  the  transistor  base  region,  Lm  is  the  diffusion 
length  and  t„,  the  lifetime  of  minority  charge  carriers  in  the  base  region, 


Rk 

I — ^AV 


E-        "J 

-^ Wvr 


Eo 


Rk     A/3EL  Rk  ^ 

•=0"   Rj    (i-A/i)"^       Rj  ^l 

(a)   MULTIPLICATION    BY   A 
CONSTANT   COEFFICIENT 


E, 


R. 


E  ^2 

E3  ^^ 


Rk 

I — vv\- 


Eo  =  E 


Rk    A/bEj 


p,  Rj    (i-A/3) 

(b)  ADDITION 


N  r-      . 

•RKEf: 


c 


§i — vw- 


£[Eo] 


A/3     £[el]        sl[eQ 


Eo 


^N^^^^?|^-PH«[EJ 


(d)  DIFFERENTIATION 


(l-A/3)    pRC     ~       pRC 
(C)    INTEGRATION 

note;       £[Eo]  =  LAPLACE    TRANSFORM    OF    OUTPUT  VOLTAGE 
£[Ei1  =  LAPLACE    TRANSFORM    OF    INPUT  VOLTAGE 

p  =  jco 
Fig.  1  —  Summary  of  operational  amplifiers. 


*  This  expression  assumes  that  the  injection  factor  y  and  the  collector  efficiency 
at  are  both  unity.  This  is  a  good  approximation  for  all  alloy  junction  transistors 
and  most  grown  junction  transistors. 


298  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

and  7?  —  ju.  At  frequencies  less  than  Ua/^ir,  (1)  can  be  approximated  by 


a  = 


1  +  ^ 


(2)' 


COa 


where  ao  is  the  low  frequency  value  of 


a  ^  1 


l/TT 
2U. 


and 


2.4Z). 


CCa    = 


w 


(Dm  is  the  diffusion  constant  for  the  minority  charge  carriers  in  the  base 
region).  A  readily  measured  parameter  called  alpha  (a),  the  short 
circuit  current  gain  of  a  junction  transistor  in  the  common  base  connec- 


SCHEMATIC 


Zc   = 


EQUIVALENT   CIRCUIT 


s                               ^ — 

*■            e/ 

(V 

b 

=^ V\V 


aZcLe 


Tb 


(a)    COMMON    BASE 
Lb 


: 


rb 


Zed -a) 


aZc'Lb 

'X, 


■re 


(b)    COMMON    EMITTER 

i^b        rb 


aZc 


re 


aZcLb 


Zed -a) 


(C)    COMMON    COLLECTOR 


re 


1  +  prcCc 


a 

P 

— 

ao 

i-hP 

re  =  COLLECTOR    RESISTANCE 
Cc  =  COLLECTOR   CAPACITANCE 


ZTT 


ALPHA-CUTOFF  FREQUENCY 


Fig.  2  —  Basic  transistor  connections. 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR   ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         299 

tion,  is  related  to  a  by  the  equation 

aZe  -{■  n  /^x 

Ze  +  n 

For  most  junction  transistors  the  base  resistance,  n ,  is  much  smaller 
than  the  collector  impedance  |  Zc  |,  at  frequencies  less  than  Wa/27r.  There- 
fore, a  ^  a  and  Ua/^ir  is  very  nearly  equal  to  the  alpha-cutoff  frequency, 
the  frequency  at  which  |  a  |  is  down  by  3  db. 

The  transistor  parameters  r^  and  n  are  actually  frequency  sensitive 
and  should  be  represented  as  impedances.  However,  good  agreement 
between  theory  and  experiment  is  obtained  at  frequencies  less  than 
Wa/27r  with  re  and  n  assumed  constant. 

The  choice  of  an  appropriate  transistor  connection  for  a  direct  coupled, 
negative  feedback  amplifier,  is  based  on  the  following  reasoning.  The 
common  base  connection  may  be  ruled  out  immediately  because  this 
connection  does  not  provide  current  gain  unless  a  transformer  interstage 
is  used.  The  common  emitter  connection  provides  short  circuit  current 
gain  and  a  phase  reversal  for  each  stage.  Thus  if  the  amplifier  is  com- 
posed of  an  odd  number  of  common  emitter  stages,  all  three  requirements 
previously  listed,  are  satisfied.  A  common  emitter  cascade  has  the  addi- 
tional practical  advantage,  that  by  alternating  n-p-n  and  p-n-p  types  of 
transistors,  the  stages  can  be  direct  coupled  with  practically  zero  inter- 
stage  loss. 

The  common  collector  connection  provides  short  circuit  current  gain 
but  no  phase  reversal.  Consequently,  the  dc  amplifier  cannot  consist 
entirely  of  common  collector  stages  and  operate  as  a  negative  feedback 
amplifier.  This  paper  will  consider  only  the  common  emitter  connection 
since,  in  general,  for  the  same  number  of  transistor  stages,  the  common 
emitter  cascade  provides  more  current  gain  than  a  cascade  composed  of 
both  common  collector  and  common  emitter  stages. 

2.1  Evaluation  of  External  Voltage  Gain 

Since  the  equivalent  circuit  of  the  junction  transistor  is  current  acti- 
vated, it  is  convenient  to  treat  feedback  in  a  single  loop  transistor  ampli- 
fier as  a  loop  current  transmission  (refer  to  Appendix  I)  instead  of  as  a 
loop  voltage  transmission  which  is  commonly  used  for  single  loop  vacuum 
tube  amplifiers.^  Fig.  3  shows  a  single  loop  feedback  amplifier  in  which 
a  fraction  of  the  output  current  is  fed  back  to  the  input.  A  is  defined  as 
the  short  circuit  current  gain  of  the  amplifier  without  feedback,  and  jS  is 
defined  as  the  fraction  of  the  short  circuit  output  current  (or  Norton 


300 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


equivalent  circuit  current)  fed  back  to  the  input  summing  node.  With 
these  definitions, 

he  =  A/in'  (4) 


la  -  131. 


sc 


where  /sc  is  the  Norton  equivalent  short  circuit  current. 
From  Kirchhoff's  first  law 

/in    =  /in  +  Iff 
Combining  relations  (4)  to  (6)  yields 


'sc 


A 


(5) 


(6) 


(7) 


/in       1  -  A^ 
Expression  (7)  provides  a  convenient  method  for  evaluating  the  external 


^ 

[|N 

I  IN 

> 

^ 

Fig.  3  —  Single  loop  feedback  amplifier. 

voltage  gain  of  an  operational  amplifier.  Fig.  4  shows  a  generalized  op- 
erational amplifier  with  N  inputs.  With  this  configuration, 


IN 


j=i  L 


TTT  he     r,        I 


Zj 


(S) 


where  Ej ,  j  =   1,2,  •  ■  •  ,  N,  are  the  N  input  voltages  referred  to  the 
ground  node. 
Zj,j—  1,2,  •  ■  ■  ,  N,  are  the  A^  input  impedances 
ZiN    is  the  input  impedance   of  the  amplifier  measured  at  the 
summing  node  with  the  feedback  loop  opened. 


Eo 


//i 


sc 


UT 


'IN 


la  = 


A 


Eovr  = 


Zk 

/sc  ~  / 


(3 


Rl        Zovt 


(5>) 


(10) 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR   ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         301 


where  Zovr  is  the  output  impedance  of  the  amplifier  measured  with  the 
feedback  loop  opened.  The  expression  for  the  output  voltage  is  obtained 
by  combining  (7),  (8),  (9),  and  (10). 


E, 


OUT 


N  y 

=   zL  ^i  7" 

;=1  ^i 


A^  + 


3  =  1       ^1    _ 


(iir 


where 


A^  =  A 


1  - 


'IN 


\Ri 


+ 


/OUT 


1    _^    ^    +        ^^^ 

Rl        Zovr 


IA/3  is  equal  to  the  current  returned  to  the  summing  node  when  a  unit 


Ei 


Z, 


MN 


1/3  Zk 


I  IN 


Zn 


Zls 


J7 


1/5  Zk 


Equt 


NORTON    EQUIVALENT    CIRCUIT 


Fig.  4  —  Generalized  operational  amplifier. 

icurrent  is  placed  into  the  base  of  the  first  transistor  stage  (/in    =   1). 
If  I  A^  1  is  much  greater  than  ]  Zj^'/Zr  \  and 


1  +  L 


'IN 


then 


N 


Eqvt   —     ~  2^  J^j  nT 


(12) 


y=i 


The  accuracy  of  the  operational  amplifier  depends  on  the  magnitude  of 
AjS  and  the  precision  of  the  components  used  in  the  input  and  feedback 
networks  as  can  be  seen  from  (11).  There  is  negligible  interaction  between 
the  input  voltages  because  the  input  impedance  at  the  summing  node  is 
equal  to  Zin'  divided  by  (1  —  A^)?  This  impedance  is  usually  negligibly 
tsmall  compared  to  the  impedances  used  in  the  input  circuit. 

*  In  general,  E,-  and  Eout  are  the  Laplace  transforms  of  the  input  and  output 
fvoltages,  respectively. 


302 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


2.2.  Methods  Used  to  Shape  the  Loop  Current  Transmission 

An  essential  consideration  in  the  design  of  a  feedback  amplifier  is  the 
provision  of  adequate  margins  against  instability.  In  order  to  accomplish 
this  objective,  it  is  necessary  to  choose  a  criterion  of  stability.  In  Ap- 
pendix I  it  is  shown  that  it  is  convenient  and  valid  to  base  the  stability 
of  single  loop  transistor  feedback  amplifiers  on  the  loop  current  trans- 
mission. In  order  to  calculate  the  loop  current  transmission  of  the  dc 
amplifier,  the  feedback  loop  is  opened  at  a  convenient  point  in  the  cir- 
cuit, usually  at  the  base  of  one  of  the  transistors,  and  a  unit  current  is 
injected  into  the  base  (refer  to  Fig.  24).  The  other  side  of  the  opened 
loop  is  connected  to  ground  through  a  resistance  (r^  -j-  r^)  and  voltage 
Veli  •  In  many  instances,  the  voltage  re/4  can  be  neglected.  If  |  Zj?  |  and 


3=1  Zj 


I 


are  much  greater  than  |  Z 


IN 


then  A/3  is  very  nearly  equal  to  the  loop 
ciu'rent  transmission.  For  absolute  stability^  the  amplitude  of  the  loop 
current  transmission  must  be  less  than  unity  before  the  phase  shift 
(from  the  low  frequency  value)  exceeds  180°.  Consequently,  this  charac- 
teristic must  be  controlled  or  properly  shaped  over  a  wide  frequency 


10 

_J 

LU 

O 
LU 
Q 


< 

o 

\- 
z 

LU 

a. 
o 


40 

U), 

a;,' 

Wa 

^{\-\-S)u)^ 

\ 

ao 

^" 

■\ 

\, 

\J 

i 

"^ 

\ 

30 

1- 

ao+cT 

t-  — 

.      ao 

\ 

7~' 

\ 

\ 

^ 

AM  PL 

ITUC 

E 

\ 

\ 

20 
10 

i-ao 

+  7_ 

AMPLITUDE' 

(WITH    LOCAL 

FEEDBACK) 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

S 

< 

PHASE   (WITH 
LOCAL  FEEDBACK) 

phase\ 

\ 

y 

\ 
> 

\ 

\ 

ao 

0 

^'^ 

f' 

\+S       1 

-270° 

X 

— . 

s 
\ 

\ 

N 

d 

«/c 

-10 
20 
30 
40 

"^ 

N 

\ 

^ 

^ 

\ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

•180 


-200 


-220 


•240 


•260  uj 

_l 

2 
< 


-280 


•300 


LU 

<     I 

I 

Q- 


-320 


■340 


,02      2  5       ,q3      2  ^       ,o4      •=;  S       ,q5      t  S       ,q6 


5   ■/^4   2     5   ,„s   2     5   ,„6   2     5   ^q7   2     5   jq8 
FREQUENCY  IN  CYCLES  PER  SECOND 


Fig.  5  —  Current  transmission  of  a  common  emitter  stage. 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR   ANALOG   AND   DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         303 

band.  In  addition,  it  is  desirable  that  the  feedback  fall  off  at  a  rate  equal 
to  or  less  than  9  db  per  octave  in  order  to  insure  that  the  dc  aniplifier 
has  a  satisfactory  transient  response. 

Three  methods  of  shaping  are  described  in  this  paper;  local  feedback 
shaping,  interstage  network  shaping,  and  (3  circuit  shaping.  Local  feed- 
back shaping  will  be  described  first.  The  analysis  starts  by  considering 
the  current  transmission  of  a  common  emitter  stage,  ecjuivalent  circuit 
shown  in  Fig.  2(b).  If  the  stage  operates  into  a  load  resistance  Rl  ,  then 
to  a  good  approximation  the  current  transmission  is  given  by 


where 


Gr  =  r"  =  ^  ~  ^°  +/ (13)^ 

^^    1  +  ^  + '^ 

wi        a)aCOc(l  —  ao  -\-  8) 

RL+Te 


8    = 


COl    = 


(1  -  ao  +  8) 
1  +  5,1 


-^  ^  alpha-cutoff  frequency 
Ztt 


1 


Uc 


(7?x,  +  re)Cc 


It  is  apparent  from  expression  (13)  that  if  (1  —  Oo  +  8)  is  less  than  0.1, 
then  the  current  gain  of  the  common  emitter  stage  falls  off  at  a  rate  of 
6  db  per  octave  with  a  corner  frequency  at  wi  .f  A  second  6  db  per  octave 
cutoff  with  a  corner  frequency  at  [co^  +  (1  +  5)aJc]  is  introduced  by  the 
p"  term  in  the  denominator  of  (13).  A  typical  transmission  characteristic 
is  shown  in  Fig.  .5.  The  current  gain  of  the  common  emitter  stage  is  unity 
at  a  frequency  equal  to 

ao 


1  +5    I     1 


*  Expressions   (13)   and   (14)   are  poor  approximations  at   frequencies  above 

'    coo/27r. 

'        t  Strictly  speaking  the  corner  frequency  is  equal  to  01/2 tt.  However,  for  sim- 
plicity, corner  frequencies  will  be  expressed  as  radian  frequencies. 


304  THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Since  the  phase  crossover  of  A|S*  is  usually  placed  below  this  frequency, 
the  principal  effect  of  the  second  cutoff  is  to  introduce  excess  phase.  This 
excess  phase  can  be  minimized  by  operating  the  stage  into  the  smallest 
load  resistance  possible,  thus  maximizing  Wc .  j 

An  undesirable  property  of  the  common  emitter  transmission  charac- 
teristic is  that  the  corner  frequency  coi  occurs  at  a  relatively  low  fre- 
quency. However,  the  corner  frequency  can  be  increased  by  using  local 
feedback  as  shown  in  Fig.  6(a).  Shunt  feedback  is  used  in  order  to  pro- 
vide a  low  input  impedance  for  the  preceding  stage  to  operate  into.  The 
amplitude  and  phase  of  the  current  transmission  is  controlled  prin- 
cipally by  the  impedances  Z\  and  Z2  .  If  |  A&  \  is  much  greater  than  one, 
and  if  /3  ;^  ^1/^2  ,  then  from  (7)  the  current  transmission  of  the  stage  is 
approximately  equal  to  —  Z2/Z1  .  Because  of  the  relatively  small  size  of 
A^  for  a  single  stage,  this  approximation  is  only  valid  for  a  very  limited 
range  of  values  of  Zi  and  Z2  .  If  Zi  and  Zi  are  represented  as  resistances 
R\  and  Ri  ,  then  the  current  transmission  of  the  circuit  is  given  to  a  good 
approximation  by 


tto 


h.  _  R2         1  —  gp  +  7 

^^  =  /i=  ~{R2  +  n)r_^p_^  v' 


where 


7    = 


coi    = 


COc    = 


Co/  COaCOcCl     —    Oo    +    7), 

R\    +    Te  _,Rl   +   Te 

R2   +   ^6 


I 

(14) 


(/?2   + 

rb)rc 

i22  +  n 

(1  +ao 

+  ro 
+  7) 

1  +  7 

1 

{R,  -f  re)Cc  i 


By  comparing  (14)  with  (13),  it  is  evident  that  the  negative  feedback 
has  reduced  the  low-frequency  current  gain  from  ao/(l  —  ao)  (5  may 
usually  be  neglected)  to 


( 


R2         \  I  «0  \   _ ,  ^2 


R2  +  rj  \1  -  ao  +  7/       ^1  +  re 


(if  7  >  1  -  ao) 


.-•! 


*  The  phase  crossover  of  A/3  is  equal  to  the  frequency  at  which  the  phase  shift 
of  A/3  from  its  low-frequency  value  is  180°. 


I 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS    FOR    ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         305 

The  half  power  frequency,  however,  has  been  increased  from 

1—   Oo  ,  1—   Oo  +  7 

t:^        1  +  7 ,  1 

as  shown  by  the  dashed  curves  in  Fig.  5.* 

The  bandwidth  of  the  common  emitter  stage  can  be  increased  without 
reducing  the  current  gain  at  dc  and  low-frequencies  by  representing  Zi 
by  a  resistance  Ri ,  and  Z2  by  a  resistance  R2  in  series  with  a  condenser 
C2 .  If  I/R2C2  is  much  smaller  than  co/,  then  the  current  transmission  of 
the  stage  is  given  by  (14)  multiplied  by  the  factor 


P 


1  + 


C04 
P 


(15) 


where 


602 


Wi 


H^^i 


1  -  cro  + 


Ri  +  re 


C2(/?2  +  r6)(l  -  ao  +  7) 


The  current  transmission  for  this  case  is  plotted  in  Fig.  6(b).  The  con- 
denser d  introduces  a  rising  6  db  per  octave  asymptote  with  a  corner 
frequency  at  wi .  At  dc  the  current  gain  is  equal  to 


ao 


1  —  ao  +  5 


A  second  method  of  shaping  the  loop  current  transmission  char- 
acteristic of  a  feedback  amplifier  is  by  means  of  interstage  networks. 
These  networks  are  usually  used  for  reducing  the  loop  current  gain  at 
relatively  low  frequencies  while  introducing  negligible  phase  lag  near 
the  gainf  and  phase  crossover  frequencies.  Interstage  networks  should 
be  designed  to  take  advantage  of  the  variable  transistor  input  impedance. 
The  input  impedance  of  a  transistor  in  the  common  emitter  connection 


*  In  Figs.  5  and  6(b),  the  factor  R^/iRi  +  n)  is  assumed  equal  to  unity.  This  is 
'  a  good  approximation  since  in  practice  R2  is  equal  to  several  thousand  ohms  while 
rt  is  equal  to  about  100  ohms. 

t  The  gain  crossover  frequency  is  equal  to  the  frequency  at  which  the  magni- 
tude of  Al3  is  unity. 


306 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


is  given  by  the  expression 


'INP 


UT    =    ?'6  +   ^e(l    —    Gi) 


(16)1 


where  Gj  is  the  current  transmission  given  by  (13).  If  Gi  at  dc  is  much' 
greater  than  1,  then  the  input  impedance  and  the  current  transmission 
of  the  common  emitter  stage  fall  off  at  about  the  same  rate  and  with 
approximately  the  same  corner  frequency  (wi).  The  input  impedance 
finally  reaches  a  limiting  value  equal  to  r^  +  Vb . 

A  particularly  useful  interstage  network  is  shown  in  Fig.  7(a).  This 
network  is  analyzed  in  Appendix  II  and  Fig.  7(b)  shoAvs  a  plot  of  the 


60 


50 


40 


30 


20 


Z 
< 


z 

UJ 


10 


tr      0 
cr 

D 
U 

-10 


-20 


-30 


(a: 


EQUIVALENT    CIRCUIT 


\ 

\ 

(b) 

\ 

AMPLITUDE 

an 

\ 

(WITHOUT    LOCAL 

\ 

FEEDBACK) 

1-ao+d" 

^   - 

^" 

\ 

■*•> 

1 

^ 

s 

.AMPLITUDE 

^4 

^>CiL 

^'' 

,^_ 

•—  ^  ■ 

■~^ 

r"**^ 

cvz 

r^ 

i 

/ 

"^v 

^ 

'               1 

>^ 

/ 

V 

\ 
\ 
\ 

X 

V 

^  ao 

i-ao+ 

7     - 

/ 

A 

/  ^ 

\ 

s. 

\ 

k 

\ 

\ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

PH/ 

>s> 

/ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 
V 

\ 

\ 

PHASE            N 

\ 

(WITHOUT    LOCAL 

\ 

s 

FEEDBACK) 

s 

w 

k. 

- 

^-. 

■"••^^, 

120 


140 


-160  10 

UJ 

m 
cr 

-180  liJ 

Q 
Z 

-200  ^ 

z 
< 


-220  , 


10 


2  5p2  5,2  5.2  5,2  5 

-!•=  in^  m^  in5 


10'= 


lO-^*  10^  10= 

FREQUENCY  IN  CYCLES  PER  SECOND 


lO'' 


-240  ' 


260 


-  -280 


10' 


Fig.  6  —  Negative  feedback  applied  to  a  common  emitter  stage. 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR   ANALOG   AND   DIGITAL   SYSTEMS 


307 


resulting  current  transmission.  The  amplitude  of  the  transmission  falls 
off  at  a  rate  of  6  db  per  octave  with  the  corner  frequency  C05  determined 
by  C'3  and  the  low  frequency  value  of  the  transistor  input  impedance. 
The  inductance  L3  introduces  a  12  db  per  octave  rising  asymptote  with 
a  corner  frequency  at  C03  =  WLsCs  .  The  corner  frequencies  C03  and  C05 
are  selected  in  order  to  obtain  a  desirable  loop  current  transmission 
characteristic  (specific  transmission  characteristics  are  presented  in  Sec- 
tions 3.0  and  4.0).  The  half  power  frequency  of  the  current  transmission 
of  the  transistor,  wi ,  does  not.  appear  directly  in  the  transmission  char- 
acteristic of  the  circuit  because  of  the  variation  in  the  transistor  input 
impedance  with  frequency. 
The  overall  (3  circuit  of  the  feedback  amplifier  can  also  be  used  for 


i-ao+(J 


I  ^ 
s 

LU 
Q 

z 
I     - 


<l< 

z 
< 

15 


Z 
UI 

cc 

D 

u 

Q 
UJ 

y 

< 

2 

a 
o 

z 


40 


20 


-20 


-40 


-60 


-80 


(b) 

/ 

/ 

CU5 

u 

■^3/ 

y' 

* 

^^^ 

A^ 

^ 

^s^ 

1 

\. 

^N, 

/ 

^s^ 

S^ 

/ 

\ 

\ 

AMPLITUDE 

/ 
/ 

\ 

\^ 

/ 

\ 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

> 

X 

X 

V 

1 

1 
/ 
/ 
/ 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1 

_ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s,. 

/ 

cu,(rb+ 

'   Te 

\ 

\-do+l 

W 

\ 

.PHASE 

^ 

Tb+le-l-Ra-K^iLa 

^^ 

/ 

\. 

*^.., 



— 

^** 

X 

— - 

N 

- 

-135 


10 


LU 
UJ 

isog 


z 
< 

-225  1}^ 


< 

I 
a. 


-270 


102        "  "^       \0^        "  =       10^        -^  =       105 

FREQUENCY    IN    CYCLES    PER    SECOND 


Fig.  7  —  Interstage  shaping  network. 


lO'' 


308  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

shaping  the  loop  current  transmission.  If  the  feedback  impedance  Zk 
(Fig.  4)  consists  of  a  resistance  Rk  and  condenser  Ck  in  parallel,  then 
the  loop  current  transmission  is  modified  by  the  factor 


1  + 


CO; 


1  +  ^ 


COS 


(17) 


where 


C07  = 


C08  = 


RkCk 

(Rl_±_Rk) 

RlRkC  K 


Since  Zk  affects  the  external  voltage  gain  of  the  operational  amplifier, 
(11),  the  corner  frequency  C07  must  be  located  outside  of  the  useful  fre- 
quency band.  Usually  it  is  placed  near  the  gain  crossover  frequency  in 
order  to  improve  the  phase  margin  and  the  transient  response  of  the 
amplifier. 

In  Sections  3.0  and  4.0,  the  above  shaping  techniques  are  used  in  the 
design  of  specific  operational  amplifiers. 

3.0.  THE   SUMMING   AMPLIFIER 

3.1.  Circuit  Arrangement 

The  schematic  diagram  of  a  dc  summing  amplifier  is  shown  in  Fig.  8. 
From  the  discussion  in  Section  2.0  it  is  apparent  that  each  common 
emitter  stage  will  contribute  more  than  90  degrees  of  high-frequency 
phase  lag.  Consequently,  while  the  magnitude  of  the  low-frequency  : 
feedback  increases  with  the  number  of  stages,  this  is  at  the  expense  of  , 
the  bandwidth  over  which  the  negative  feedback  can  be  maintained. 
It  is  possible  to  develop  80  db  of  negative  feedback  at  dc  with  three 
common  emitter  stages.  This  corresponds  to  a  dc  accuracy  of  one  part 
in  10,000.  In  addition,  the  feedback  can  be  maintained  over  a  broad 
enough  band  in  order  to  permit  full  accuracy  to  be  attained  in  about 
100  microseconds.  Thus  it  is  evident  that  the  choice  of  three  stages  repre- 
sents a  satisfactory  compromise  between  accuracy  and  bandwidth  ob- 
jectives. 

The  output  stage  of  the  amplifier  is  designed  for  a  maximum  power 
dissipation  of  75  milliwats  and  maximum  voltage  swing  of  ±25  volts 


I 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR   ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS 


309 


when  operating  into  an  external  load  resistance  equal  to  or  greater  than 
50,000  ohms.  A  p-n-p  transistor  is  used  in  the  second  stage  and  n-p-n 
transistors  are  used  in  the  first  and  third  stages.  This  circuit  arrangement 
makes  it  possible  to  connect  the  collector  of  one  transistor  directly  to 
the  base  of  the  following  transistor  without  introducing  appreciable 
interstage  loss.  ''Shot"  noise"  and  dc  drift  are  minimized  by  operating 
the  first  stage  at  the  relatively  low  collector  current  of  0.25  milliamperes. 
The  110,000-ohm  resistor  provides  the  collector  current  for  the  first 
stage,  and  the  4,700-ohm  resistor  provides  3.8  milliamperes  of  collector 
current  for  the  second  stage.  The  series  6,800-ohm  resistor  between  the 
xcond  and  third  stages,  reduces  the  collector  to  emitter  potential  of  the 
second  stage  to  about  4.5  volts. 

The  loop  current  transmission  is  shaped  by  use  of  local  feedback  ap- 
plied to  the  second  stage,  by  an  interstage  network  connected  between 
the  second  and  third  stages,  and  by  the  overall  (3  circuit.  The  200-ohm 
resistor  in  the  collector  circuit  of  the  second  stage  is,  with  reference  to 
Fig.  6(a),  Zi  .  The  impedance  of  the  interstage  network  can  be  neglected 
since  it  is  small  compared  to  200  ohms  at  all  frequencies  for  which  the 
local  feedback  is  effective.  The  interstage  network  is  connected  between 
the  second  and  third  stages  in  order  to  minimize  the  output  noise  voltage. 
^^'ith  this  circuit  arrangement,  practically  all  of  the  output  noise  voltage 


iE 


250  K 


IN 


+  33V 


5MUf 

Hf- 


20on 


n-p-n 


250  K 
2.4  K  200  n 


0.01/U.F 


p-n-p 


■llOK 


100  K    POT. 

MANUAL 

ZERO    SET 


I 

+  33V 


I 

+  4.5V 


OUT 


5>UH 


-45V  -27V     +33V 


Fig.  8  — ■  DC  summing  amplifier. 


310  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


120 


100 


UJ 

U     80 

LU 

o 

z 
"    60 

< 


< 

IS 


LU 

a: 
tr 

D 
U 

Q. 

o 
o 

_) 


40 


20 


■20 


-40 


,-' 

../>' 

--T 

.-' 

— 

364 

LOCAL    _ 
FEEDBACK"^- 

^-' 

.-1 

41,000 

-^ 

^ 

d      6 

630 

\, 

.     12 

N 
\ 

?,000 

--.., 

s^-> 

^-. 

'S 

'-.. 

\ 

\ 

V 
\ 
\ 
V 

2ND      •^^ 

STAGE          ^ 

s 

\ 

-.. 

"-. 
^-. 

1ST    &    3RD 
STAGES 

N 

\ 

0.5/ZF 

^■-S;:-.-, 

^ 

\, 

\ 
\ 

> 

\ 

10' 


10-^ 


10- 


10' 


10' 


FRFOUENCY     IN    CYCLES    PER    SECOND 

Fig.  9  —  Gain-frequency  asymptotes  for  summing  amplifier. 

is  generated  in  the  first  transistor  stage.  If  the  transistor  in  the  first 
stage  has  a  noise  figure  less  than  10  db  at  1,000  cycles  per  second,  then 
the  RMS  output  noise  voltage  is  less  than  0.5  millivolts. 

Fig.  9  shows  a  plot  of  the  gain-frequency  asymptotes  for  the  sum- 
ming amplifier  determined  from  (13),  (14),  (15),  (17),  and   (A6)  under 
the  assumption  that  the  alphas  and  alpha-cutoff  frequencies  of  the  tran- 
sistors are  0.985  and  3  mc,  respectively.  The  corner  frequencies  intro-' 
duced  by  the  0.5  microfarad  condenser  in  the  interstage  network,  thel 
local  feedback  circuit,  and  the  cutoff  of  the  first  and  third  stages  are  so 
located  that  the  current  transmission  falls  off  at  an  initial  rate  of  about' 
9  db  per  octave.  This  slope  is  joined  to  the  final  asymptote  of  the  loop 
transmission  by  means  of  a  step-type  of  transition.^   The  transition  is 
provided  by  3  rising  asymptotes  due  to  the  interstage  shaping  network, 
and  the  overall  /S  circuit.  An  especially  large  phase  margin  is  used  in  order 
to  insure  a  good  transient  performance. 

Fig.  10  shows  the  amplitude  and  phase  of  the  loop  current  trans- 
mission. When  the  amplitude  of  the  transmission  is  0  db,  the  phase  angle 
is  -292°,  and  when  the  phase  angle  is  —360°,  the  amplitude  is  27.5  db 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR  ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS 


311 


100 


LU 

m 
u 

LU 
Q 


<^ 

z 
< 

H 
Z 
UJ 

a. 
a. 

D 

o 

Q. 
O  " 

o 

_l 


80 


60 


40 


20 


20 


-40 


— 

■~-^ 

^•"v 

> 

\ 

^ 

AM 

PLITL 

DE 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s 

> 

\. 

._ 

s 

>^ 

^r 

•—'' 

y^       "N   phase 

'PHASE     'nCROSSOVER 

s 

\ 

\ 

V 

/  GAIN^-N^ 
CROSSOVER 

N 

-27.5  DB 
95  =  -360° 

sv 

■160 


-200 


to 

LU 
-240  ^ 

O 

LU 

Q 

-280   7 


•320 


-360 


-400 


■440 


10= 
FREQUENCY  IN  CYCLES  PER  SECOND 


10^ 


10' 


Fig.  10  —  Loop  current  transmission  of  the  summing  amplifier. 

below  0  db.  The  amplifier  has  a  68°  phase  margin  and  27.5  db  gain  margin. 
In  order  to  insure  sufficient  feedback  at  dc  and  adequate  margins  against 
instability,  the  transistors  used  in  the  amplifier  should  have  alphas  in 
the  range  0.98  to  0.99  and  alpha-cutoff  frequencies  equal  to  or  greater 
than  2.5  mc. 


3.2.  Automatic  Zero  Set  of  the  dc  Summing  Amplifier 

The  application  of  germanium  junction  transistors  to  dc  amplifiers 
does  not  eliminate  the  problem  of  drift  normally  encountered  in  vacuum 
tube  circuits.  In  fact,  drift  is  more  severe  due  principally  to  the  varia- 
tion of  the  transistor  parameters  alpha  and  saturation  current  with 
temperature  variation.  Even  though  the  amplifier  has  80  db  of  negative 
feedback  at  dc,  this  feedback  does  not  eliminate  the  drift  introduced  by 
[the  first  transistor  stage.  Because  of  the  large  amount  of  dc  feedback, 
the  collector  current  of  the  first  stage  is  maintained  relatively  constant. 
The  collector  current  of  the  transistor  is  related  to  the  base  current  by 
the  equation 


Ic   = 


/c 


+ 


a 


I  —  a       1  —  a 


(18) 


[The  saturation  current,  Ico  ,  of  a  germanium  junction  transistor  doubles 
(approximately  for  every  11°C  increase  in  temperature.  The  factor 
a/(l  —  a)  increases  by  as  much  as  6  db  for  a  25°C  increase  in  tempera- 


312  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

ture.  Consequently,  the  base  current  of  the  first  stage,  Ih ,  and  the  output 
voltage  of  the  amplifier  must  change  with  temperature  in  order  to  main- ' 
tain  Ic  constant.  The  drift  due  to  the  temperature  variation  in  a  can  be 
reduced  by  operating  the  first  stage  at  a  low  value  of  collector  current. 
With  a  germanium  junction  transistor  in  the  first  stage  operating  at  a 
collector  current  of  0.25  milliamperes,  the  output  voltage  of  the  amplifier 
drifts  about  ±1.5  volts  over  a  temperature  range  of  0°C  to  50°C.  It  is 
possible  to  reduce  the  dc  drift  by  using  temperature  sensitive  elements 
in  the  amplifier.  •  In  general,  temperature  compensation  of  a  transistor 
dc  amplifier  requires  careful  selection  of  transistors  and  critical  adjust- 
ment of  the  dc  biases.  However,  even  with  the  best  adjustments,  tem- 
perature compensation  cannot  reduce  the  drift  in  the  amplifier  to  within 
typical  limits  such  as  ±5  millivolts  throughout  a  temperature  range  of  i 
0  to  50°C.  In  order  to  obtain  the  desired  accuracy  it  is  necessary  to  use 
an  automatic  zero  set  (AZS)  circuit.  t 

Fig.  11  shows  a  dc  summing  amplifier  and  a  circuit  arrangement  fori 
reducing  any  dc  drift  that  may  appear  at  the  output  of  the  amplifier. 
The  output  voltage  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  the  sum  of  the  input  volt- 
ages, where  each  input  voltage  is  multiplied  by  the  ratio  of  the  feedback 
resistor  to  its  input  resistor.  In  addition,  an  undesirable  dc  drift  voltage  ^ 
is  also  present  in  the  ovitput  voltage.  The  total  output  voltage  is 

^o.t   =    -i:^y|^  +  Adrift  (1!))^ 

In  order  to  isolate  the  drift  voltage,  the  A^  input  voltages  and  the  output 
voltage  are  applied  to  a  resistance  summing  network  composed  of  re- 
sistors Ro ,  Ri  ,  R2 ,  •  •  •  ,  Rn  ■  The  voltage  across  Rs  is  equal  to 

Es=^  Adrift  (20) 

if 

R,«Ro,R/;        j  =  1,2,  ■■'  ,N 
and 

RoRj  =  RkR,';       j  =  1,2,  ■■■  ,N 

The  voltage  E,  is  amplified  in  a  relatively  drift-free  narrow  band  dc 
amplifier  and  is  returned  as  a  drift  correcting  voltage  to  the  input  of  the 
dc  summing  amplifier.  If  the  gain  of  the  AZS  circuit  is  large,  the  drift 
voltage  at  the  output  of  the  summing  amplifier  can  be  made  very  small. 
Fig.  12  shows  the  circuit  diagram  of  a  summing  amplifier  which  uses 
a  mechanical  chopper  in  the  AZS  circuit.^^  The  AZS  circuit  consists  of  a 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         313 

resistance  summing  network,  a  400-cycle  synchronous  chopper,  and  a 
tuned  400-cycle  amplifier.  Any  drift  in  the  summing  amplifier  will  pro- 
duce a  dc  voltage  Es  at  the  output  of  the  summing  network.  The  chopper 
converts  the  dc  voltage  into  a  400  cycles  per  second  waveform.  The 
fundamental  frequency  in  the  waveform  is  amplified  by  a  factor  of  about 
400,000  by  the  tuned  amplifier.  The  synchronous  chopper  rectifies  the 
sinusoidal  output  voltage  and  preserves  the  original  dc  polarity  of  Eg  . 
The  rectified  voltage  is  filtered  and  fed  back  to  the  summing  amplifier 
as  an  additional  input  current.  The  loop  voltage  gain  of  the  AZS  circuit 
at  dc  is  about  54  db.  Any  dc  or  low-frequency  drift  in  the  summing 
amplifier  is  reduced  by  a  factor  of  about  500  by  the  AZS  circuit.  The 
drift  throughout  a  temperature  range  of  0  to  50°C  is  reduced  to  ±3 
millivolts. 

Since  the  drift  in  the  summing  amplifier  changes  at  a  relatively  slow 
rate,  the  loop  voltage  gain  of  the  AZS  circuit  can  be  cutoff  at  a  relatively 
low  frequency.  In  this  particular  case  the  loop  voltage  gain  is  zero  db  at 
about  10  cycles  per  second. 


4.0.  THE   INTEGRATOR 

4.1.  Basic  Design  Considerations 

The  design  principles  previously  discussed  are  illustrated  in  this  sec- 
tion by  the  design  of  a  transistor  integrator  for  application  in  a  voltage 


VvV 


-OUT 


Fig.  11  —  DC  summing  amplifier  with  automatic  zero  set. 


314  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         315 


encoder.  The  integrator  is  required  to  generate  a  15-volt  ramp  which  is 
linear  and  has  a  constant  slope  to  within  one  part  in  8,000.  This  ramp  is 
to  have  a  slope  of  5  millivolts  per  microsecond  for  an  interval  of  3,000 
microseconds. 

The  first  step  in  the  design  is  to  determine  the  bandwidth  over  which 
the  negative  feedback  must  be  maintained  in  order  to  realize  the  desired 
output  voltage  linearity.  The  relationship  between  the  output  and  input 
voltage  of  the  integrator  can  be  obtained  from  expression  (11)  by  sub- 
stituting (1/pc)  for  Zk  and  R  for  Zj  (refer  to  Fig.  1). 


£l-C'outJ   — 


pRC 


A/3  +  Zr^'pC 


1  -  AjS  + 


-nN_ 
R 


(21) 


where  ce[£'ouT]  and  JSiii'iN]  are  the  Laplace  transforms  of  the  output  and 
input  voltages,  respectively.  In  order  to  generate  the  voltage  ramp,  a 
step  voltage  of  amplitude  E  is  applied  to  the  input  of  the  integrator.  The 
term  Zy^  jR  is  negligible  compared  to  unity  at  all  frequencies.  Therefore, 


£L-£'outJ  — 


E     \     A& 


+ 


EZ 


IN 


1 


'^-RC  Ll  -  A&\         pR    \\  -  A^_ 
It  will  be  assumed  that  A/3  is  given  by  the  expression 

-K 


(22) 


A^  = 


V 


)0  +  ^T 


(i  +  -M(i  +  ^ 


(23) 


Expression  (23)  implies  that  A/3  falls  off  at  a  rate  of  6  db  per  octave  at 
low  frequencies  and  12  db  per  octave  at  high  frequencies.  The  output 
\  voltage  of  the  integrator,  as  a  function  of  time,  is  readily  evaluated  by 
substituting  (23)  into  (22)  and  taking  the  inverse  Laplace  transform  of 
the  results.  A  good  approximation  for  the  output  voltage  is 


^OUT    — 


E 


RC 


+ 


2K 


^-[(2w2+«l)(/2]    ^;„    -x/W 


sm 


Vk> 


OJo 


■iC02M 


ER 


(24)^ 


IN 


R 


[1  _  e-(-i'W  _!_  g-[(2<-2+.i)t/2i  ^Qg  ^Tkc.,!] 


The  linear  voltage  ramp  is  expressed  by  the  term  —  (Et/RC) .  The 
additional  terms  introduce  nonlinearities.  The  voltage  ramp  has  a  slope 
of  5  millivolts  per  microsecond  for  E  =   —21  volts,  R  =  42,000  ohms, 

*  In  evaluating  jE'out  it  was  assumed  that  Zm'  was  equal  to  a  fixed  resistance 
Rin' ,  the  low  frequency  input  resistance  to  the  first  common  emitter  stage.  A 
complete  analysis  indicates  that  this  assumption  makes  the  design  conservative. 


31G 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


and  C  =  0.1  microfarads.  For  these  circuit  values,  and  K  =  10,000 
(corresponding  to  80  db  of  feedback)  the  nonhnear  terms  are  less  than 
1/8,000  of  the  linear  term  (evaluated  when  /  =  4  X  10"^  seconds)  if 
/i  ^  30  cycles  per  second,  J2  ^  800  cycles  per  second,  and  if  the  first 
1000  microseconds  of  the  voltage  ramp  are  not  used.  Consequently,  80 
db  of  negative  feedback  must  be  maintained  over  a  band  extending  from 
30  to  800  cycles  per  second  in  order  to  realize  the  desired  output  voltage 
linearity. 

4.2.  Detailed  Circuit  Arrangement 

Fig.  13  shows  the  circuit  diagram  of  the  integrator.  The  method  of 
biasing  is  the  same  as  is  used  in  the  summing  amplifier.  The  200,000-ohm 
resistor  provides  approximately  0.5  milliamperes  of  collector  current  for 
the  first  stage.  The  40,000-ohm  resistor  provides  approximately  0.9 
milliamperes  of  collector  current  for  the  second  stage.  The  output  stage 
is  designed  for  a  maximum  power  dissipation  of  120  milliwatts  and  for 
an  output  voltage  swing  between  —5  and  +24  volts  when  operating 
into  a  load  resistance  equal  to  or  greater  than  40,000  ohms. 


J+'08V 


•  +  108V 


42  K 


D2 

44- 


C 


0.01>(/F  o.l/iF 

2.4K 


270  K 


I 

+  I08V 


1MEG 


200n 

\ — vw 

2>U.F 


200  K 


rVWA/^An 

j  100  K       [ 


POT.        I 


I 


OUT 


-10.5V 


+  108V 


+  4.5V 


•45V  -10.5V 


Fig.  13  —  Integrator. 


TRANSISTOR    CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         317 


1   !!3 

{       LU 

I  5 
u 
ai 
a 


1     z 
< 


140 
120 

N 

100 

.^^ 

\ 

AMPLITUDE 

v. 

80 

^""^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

N 

\, 

60 

\ 
\ 

> 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s 

40 
20 

\ 

'^— -- 

,'' 

S 

"-s 

S, 

PHASE 

^ 

\ 

\ 

■\ 

PHASE 
. CROSSOVER 

0 
-20 
-40 

GAIN-" 
CROSSOVER 

\ 

\ 

—  ?n  HR 

95=- 

360° 

■80 


-120 


160 


■200 


■240 


•280 


UJ 

_J 

z 
< 

LU 
lO 
-320  < 
I 
Q. 


-360 


-400 


■440 


10 


2  S      .-      2  5       .^3      2  5      ,^^      2  ^       105     2  ^       ,0«      '  '       10^ 


lO'^ 


w 


FREQUENCY    IN    CYCLES    PER   SECOND 

Fig.  14  — -  Loop  current  transmission  of  the  integrator. 

The  negative  feedback  in  the  integrator  has  been  shaped  by  means  of 
local  feedback  and  interstage  networks  as  described  in  Section  2.2.  The 
loop  current  transmission  has  been  calculated  from  (13),  (14),  (15),  and 
(A6)  and  is  plotted  in  Fig.  14.  The  transmission  is  determined  under  the 
assumption  that  the  alphas  of  the  transistors  are  0.985  and  the  alpha- 
cutoff  frequencies  are  three  megacycles.  Since  the  feedback  above  800 
cycles  per  second  falls  off  at  a  rate  of  9  db  per  octave,  the  analysis  in 
Section  4.1  using  (23),  is  conservative.  The  integrator  has  a  44°  phase 
margin  and  a  20  db  gain  margin.  In  order  to  insure  sufficient  feedback 
between  30  and  800  cycles  per  second  and  adequate  margins  against 
instability,  the  transistors  used  in  the  integrator  should  have  alphas  in 
the  range  0.98  to  0.99  and  alpha-cutoff  frequencies  equal  to  or  greater 
than  2.5  megacycles. 

The  silicon  diodes  Di  and  D2  are  rec^uired  in  order  to  prevent  the 
integrator  from  overloading.  For  output  voltages  between  —4.0  and  21 
volts  the  diodes  are  reverse  biased  and  represent  very  high  resistances,  of 
the  order  of  10,000  megohms.  If  the  output  voltage  does  not  lie  in  this 
range,  then  one  of  the  diodes  is  forward  biased  and  has  a  low  resistance, 
of  the  order  of  100  ohms.  The  integrator  is  then  effectively  a  dc  amplifier 
with  a  voltage  gain  of  approximately  0.1.  The  silicon  diodes  affect  the 


318 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


linearity  of  the  voltage  ramp  slightly  due  to  their  finite  reverse  resistances 
and  variable  shunt  capacities.  If  the  diodes  have  reverse  resistances 
greater  than  1000  megohms,  and  if  the  maximum  shunt  capacity  of  each 
diode  is  less  than  10  micromicrofarads  (capacity  with  minimum  reverse 
voltage),  then  the  diodes  introduce  negligible  error. 

As  stated  earlier,  the  integrator  generates  a  voltage  ramp  in  response 
to  a  voltage  step.  This  step  is  applied  through  a  transistor  switch  which 
is  actuated  by  a  square  wave  generator  capable  of  driving  the  transistor 
well  into  current  saturation.  Such  a  switch  is  required  because  the 
equivalent  generator  impedance  of  the  applied  step  voltage  must  be  very 
small.  A  suitable  circuit  arrangement  is  shown  in  Fig.  15.  For  the  par- 
ticular application  under  discussion  the  switch  *S  is  closed  for  5,000 
microseconds.  During  this  time,  the  voltage  E  =  —217  appears  at  the 
input  of  the  integrator.  At  the  end  of  this  time  interval,  the  transistor 
switch  is  opened  and  a  reverse  current  is  applied  to  the  feedback  con- 
denser C,  returning  the  output  voltage  to  —4.0  volts  in  about  2500  micro- 
seconds. An  alternate  way  of  specifying  a  low  impedance  switch  is  to  say 
that  the  voltage  across  it  be  close  to  zero.  For  the  transistor  switch,  con- 
nected as  shown  in  Fig.  15,  this  means  that  its  collector  voltage  be  within 


FIRST  STAGE 

OF   DC 

AMPLIFIER 


10.5V 


50  K  150 K 

' — WV-HVW 


RESIDUAL 
VOLTAGE    BALANCE 


(TO  AZS) 


Fig.  15  —  Input  circuit  arrangement  of  the  integrator. 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         319 

one  millivolt  of  ground  potential  during  the  time  the  transistor  is  in 
saturation.  Xow,  it  has  been  shown  that  when  a  junction  transistor  in 
the  common  emitter  connection  is  driven  into  current  saturation,  the 
minimum  voltage  between  collector  and  emitter  is  theoretically  equal  to 

—  in  -  (25) 

q         oci 

where  k  is  the  Boltzmann  constant,  T  is  the  absolute  temperature,  q  is 
the  charge  of  an  electron  ((kT/q)  =  26  millivolts  at  room  temperature), 
and  ai  is  the  inverse  alpha  of  the  transistor,  i.e.,  the  alpha  with  the 
emitter  and  collector  interchanged.  There  is  an  additional  voltage  drop 
across  the  transistor  due  to  the  bulk  resistance  of  the  collector  and 
emitter  regions  (including  the  ohmic  contacts).  A  symmetrical  alloy 
junction  transistor  with  an  alpha  close  to  unity  is  an  excellent  switch 
because  both  the  collector  to  emitter  voltage  and  the  collector  and  emit- 
ter resistances  are  very  small. 

At  the  present  time,  a  reasonable  value  for  the  residual  voltage*  be- 
tween the  collector  and  emitter  is  5  to  10  millivolts.  This  voltage  can  be 
eliminated  by  returning  the  emitter  of  the  transistor  switch  to  a  small 
negative  potential.  This  method  of  balancing  is  practical  because  the 
voltage  between  the  collector  and  emitter  of  the  transistor  does  not 
change  by  more  than  1.0  millivolt  over  a  temperature  range  of  0°C  to 
50°C. 

4.3.  Automatic  Zero  Set  of  the  Integrator 

A  serious  problem  associated  with  the  transistor  integrator  is  drift. 
The  drift  is  introduced  by  two  sources;  variations  in  the  base  current  of 
the  first  transistor  stage  and  variations  in  the  base  to  emitter  potential 
of  the  first  stage  wdth  temperature.  In  order  to  reduce  the  drift,  the 
input  resistor  R  and  the  feedback  condenser  C  must  be  dissociated  from 
the  base  current  and  base  to  emitter  potential  of  the  first  transistor  stage. 
This  is  accomplished  by  placing  a  blocking  condenser  Cb  between  point 
T  and  the  base  of  the  first  transistor  as  shown  in  Fig.  15.  An  automatic 
zero  set  circuit  is  required  to  maintain  the  voltage  at  point  T  equal  to 
zero  volts.  This  AZS  circuit  uses  a  magnetic  modulator  known  as  a 
"magnettor."^^ 

A  block  diagram  of  the  AZS  circuit  is  shown  in  Fig.  16.  The  dc  drift 
current  at  the  input  of  the  amplifier  is  applied  to  the  magnettor.  The 
carrier  current  required  by  the  magnettor  is  supplied  by  a  local  transistor 

*  The  inverse  alphas  of  the  transistors  used  in  this  application  were  greater 
than  0.95. 


320 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


oscillator.  The  useful  output  of  the  magnettor  is  the  second  harmonic  of 
the  carrier  frequency.  The  amplitude  of  the  second  harmonic  signal  is 
proportional  to  the  magnitude  of  the  dc  input  current  and  the  phase  of 
the  second  harmonic  signal  is  determined  by  the  polarity  of  the  dc  input 
current.  The  output  voltage  of  the  magnettor  is  applied  to  an  active 
filter  which  is  tuned  to  the  second  harmonic  frequency.  The  signal  is 
then  amplified  in  a  tuned  amplifier  and  applied  to  a  diode  gating  circuit. 
Depending  on  the  polarity  of  the  dc  input  current,  the  gating  circuit 
passes  either  the  positive  or  negative  half  cycle  of  the  second  harmonic 
signal.  In  order  to  accomplish  this,  a  square  wave  at  a  repetition  rate 
equal  to  that  of  the  second  harmonic  signal  is  derived  from  the  carrier 
oscillator  and  actuates  the  gating  circuit. 

A  circuit  diagram  of  the  AZS  circuit  is  shown  in  Figs.  17(a)  and  17(b). 
The  various  sections  of  the  circuit  are  identified  with  the  blocks  shown 
in  Fig.  16.  The  active  filter  is  adjusted  for  a  Q  of  about  300,  and  the  gain 
of  the  active  filter  and  tuned  amplifier  is  approximately  1000.  The  AZS 
circuit  provides  ±1.0  volt  of  dc  output  voltage  for  ±0.05  microamperes 
of  dc  input  current.  The  maximum  sensitivity  of  the  circuit  is  limited 
to  ±0.005  microamperes  because  of  residual  second  harmonic  generation 
in  the  magnettor  with  zero  input  current. 

When  the  transistor  integrator  is  used  together  with  the  magnettor 
AZS  circuit,  the  slope  of  the  voltage  ramp  is  maintained  constant  to 
within  one  part  in  8,000  over  a  temperature  range  of  20°C  to  40°C. 

5.0.  The  Voltage  Comparator 

The  voltage  comparator  is  one  of  the  most  important  circuits  used  in 
analog  to  digital  converters.  The  comparator  indicates  the  exact  time 
that  an  input  waveform  passes  through  a  predetermined  reference  level. 
It  has  been  common  practice  to  use  a  vacuum  tube  blocking  oscillator 
as  a  voltage  comparator. ^^  Due  to  variations  in  the  contact  potential, 
heater  voltage,  and  transconductance  of  the  vacuum  tube,  the  maximum 


DC 
INPUT 


AC 

MAGNETTOR 

ACTIVE 
FILTER 

\ 

GATING 
CIRCUIT 

^ 

A 

■~ 

OSCILLATOR 

GATING 
PULSE 

DC 

OUTPUT 


Fig.  16  —  Block  diagram  of  AZS  circuit. 


TRANSISTOR    CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         321 

accuracy  of  the  circuit  is  limited  to  about  ±100  millivolts.  By  taking 
advantage  of  the  properties  of  semiconductor  devices,  the  transistor 
blocking  oscillator  comparator  can  be  designed  to  have  an  accuracy  of 
±5  millivolts  throughout  a  temperature  range  of  20°C  to  40°C. 

5.1.  General  Descri'ption  of  the  Voltage  Comparator 

Fig.  18  shows  a  simplified  circuit  diagram  of  the  voltage  comparator. 
Except  for  the  silicon  junction  diode  D\  ,  this  circuit  is  essentially  a 
transistor  blocking  oscillator.  For  the  purpose  of  analysis,  assume  that 
the  reference  voltage  Vee  is  set  equal  to  zero.  When  the  input  voltage  V, 
is  large  and  negative,  the  silicon  diode  Di  is  an  open  circuit  and  the  jiuic- 
tion  transistor  has  a  collector  current  determined  by  Rb  and  Ebb  [Expres- 
sion (18)].  The  base  of  the  transistor  resides  at  approximately  —0.2 
volts.  As  the  input  voltage  Vi  approaches  zero,  the  reverse  bias  across 
the  diode  Di  decreases.  At  a  critical  value  of  Vi  (a  small  positive  poten- 
tial), the  dynamic  resistance  of  the  diode  is  small  enough  to  permit  the 
circuit  to  become  unstable.  The  positive  feedback  provided  by  trans- 
1  former  Ti  forces  the  transistor  to  turn  off  rapidly,  generating  a  sharp 
I  output  pulse  across  the  secondary  of  transformer  T-z  .  When  Vi  is  large 
and  positive,  the  diode  Di  is  a  low  impedance  and  the  transistor  is  main- 
tained cutoff.  In  order  to  prevent  the  comparator  from  generating  more 
than  one  output  pulse  during  the  time  that  the  circuit  is  unstable,  the 
natural  period  of  the  circuit  as  a  blocking  oscillator  must  be  properly 
chosen.  Depending  on  this  period,  the  input  voltage  waveform  must 
have  a  certain  minimum  slope  when  passing  through  the  reference  level 
in  order  to  prevent  the  circuit  from  misfiring. 

I      The  comparator  has  a  high  input  impedance  except  during  the  switch- 
1  ing  interval.*  When  Vi  is  negative  with  respect  to  the  reference  level,  the 
\  input  impedance  is  equal  to  the  impedance  of  the  reverse  biased  silicon 
i  diode.  When  Vi  is  positive  with  respect  to  the  reference  level,  the  input 
I  impedance  is  equal  to  the  impedance  of  the  reverse  biased  emitter  and 
!  collector  junctions  in  parallel.   This   impedance  is  large   if   an   alloy 
;  junction  transistor  is  used.  During  the  switching  interval  the  input  im- 
■  pedance  is  equal  to  the  impedance  of  a  forward  biased  silicon  diode  in 
series  with  the  input  impedance  of  a  common  emitter  stage  (approxi- 
mately 1,000  ohms).  This  loading  effect  is  not  too  serious  since  for  the 
circuit  described,  the  switching  interval  is  less  than  0.5  microseconds. 

The  voltage  comparator  shown  in  Fig.  18  operates  accurately  on 
voltage  waveforms  with  positive  slopes.  The  voltage  comparator  will 
operate  accurately  on  waveforms  with  negative  slopes  if  the  diode  and 

*  The  switching  interval  is  the  time  required  for  the  transistor  to  turn  off. 


322  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


note:  all  capacitors  and  inductors 
IN  tuned  circuits  have  a 

tolerance    of    ±0.1% 


Fig.  17(a)  —  AZS  circuit. 

battery  potentials  are  reversed  and  if  an  n-p-n  junction  transistor  is 
used. 


5.2.  Factors  Determining  the  Accuracy  of  the  Voltage  Comparator 

Fig.  19  shows  the  ac  equivalent  circuit  of  the  voltage  comparator.  In 
the  equivalent  circuit  Ri  is  the  dynamic  resistance  of  the  diode  Di ,  Rg 
is  the  source  resistance  of  the  input  voltage,  and  R2  is  the  impedance  of 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR  ANALOG   AND   DIGITAL   SYSTEMS 


323 


the  load  R^  as  it  appears  at  the  primary  of  the  transformer  T2 .  Ri  is  a 
function  of  the  dc  voltage  across  the  diode  Z)i .  At  a  prescribed  value  of 
Ri ,  the  comparator  circuit  becomes  unstable  and  switches.  The  relation- 
ship between  this  critical  value  of  Ri  and  the  transistor  and  circuit 
parameters  is  obtained  by  evaluating  the  characteristic  equation  for  the 
circuit  and  by  determining  the  relationship  which  the  coefficients  of  the 
equation  must  satisfy  in  order  to  have  a  root  of  the  equation  lie  in  the 
right  hand  half  of  the  complex  frequency  plane.  To  a  good  approxima- 
tion, the  critical  value  of  Ri  is  given  by  the  expression 


R,  -\-R„  +  n  = 


Mao 


RiCc  -\- 


(26) 


N'^Rr 


where  M  is  the  mutual  inductance  of  transformer  Ti  and  R2  —  ly  h^l 
Since  the  transistor  parameters  which  appear  in  expression  (26)  have  only 
a  small  variation  with  temperature,  the  critical  value  of  Ri  is  independent 
of  temperature  (to  a  first  approximation). 

It  will  now  be  shown  that  the  comparator  can  be  designed  for  an  ac- 
curacy of  ±5  millivolts  throughout  a  temperature  range  of  20°C  to  40°C. 
In  order  to  establish  this  accuracy  it  will  be  assumed  that  the  critical 
value  of  7^1  is  equal  to  30,000  ohms.  This  assumption  is  based  on  the 


30/iF 


TO    LC    FILTER 

IN     MAGNETTOR 

NPUT    CIRCUIT 


4/iF 


+33V 


I+33V 

Fig.  17(b),  900-cycle  carrier  oscillator. 


324  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


data  displayed  in  Fig.  20  which  gives  the  volt-ampere  characteristics  of  a 
silicon  diode  measured  at  20°C  and  40°C.  Throughout  this  temperature 
range,  the  diode  voltage  corresponding  to  the  critical  resistance  of 
30,000  ohms  changes  by  about  30  millivolts.  Fortunately,  part  of  this 
voltage  variation  with  temperature  is  compensated  for  by  the  variation 
in  voltage  Vb-e  between  the  base  and  emitter  of  the  junction  transistor. 
From  Fig.  18, 


V,    =    Vo    -    Vb-e  +    Ve 


(27) 


For  perfect  compensation  (Vi  independent  of  temperature),  Vb-e  should 
have  the  same  temperature  variation  as  the  diode  voltage  Vd  .  Experi- 


REFERENCE 
I  LEVEL 

-I       ADJUSTMENT       i+ 


Fig.  18  —  Simplified  circuit  diagram  of  voltage  comparator. 


Fig.  19  —  Equivalent  circuit  of  voltage  comparator. 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS   FOR   ANALOG   AND   DIGITAL   SYSTEMS 


325 


0.7 


_) 
O 
> 


0.6 


R,  =  30,000  OHMS 


20°C 


> 


u:o.5 

< 

I- 
_l 

o 
> 

o 


0.3 


2  3  4  5  6 

DIODE   CURRENT,  Ip,  IN    MICROAMPERES 

Fig.  20  —  Volt-ampere  characteristic  of  a  silicon  junction  diode. 

mentally  it  is  found  that  Yh-e  for  germanium  junction  transistors  varies 
by  about  20  millivolts  throughout  the  temperature  range  of  20°C  to 
40°C.  Consequently,  the  variation  in  Yi  at  which  the  circuit  switches  is 
±5  millivolts. 

It  is  apparent  from  Fig.  20  that  the  accuracy  of  the  comparator  in- 
creases slightly  for  critical  values  of  R\  greater  than  30,000  ohms,  but 
decreases  for  smaller  values.  For  example,  the  accuracy  of  the  comparator 
is  ±10  millivolts  for  a  critical  value  of  U\  equal  to  5,000  ohms.  In  gen- 
eral, the  critical  value  of  R\  should  be  chosen  between  5,000  and  100,000 
ohms. 


5.3.  A  Practical  Yoltage  Comparator 

Fig.  21  shows  the  complete  circuit  diagram  of  a  voltage  comparator. 
The  circuit  is  designed  to  generate  a  sharp  output  pulse*  when  the  input 
voltage  waveform  passes  through  the  reference  level  (set  by  Yee)  with  a 
positive  slope.  The  pulse  is  generated  by  the  transistor  switching  from 
the  "on"  state  to  the  "off"  state.  To  a  first  approximation  the  amplitude 
of  the  output  pulse  is  proportional  to  the  transistor  collector  current 
during  the  "on"  state.  When  the  input  voltage  waveform  passes  through 
the  reference  level  with  a  negative  slope  an  undesirable  negative  pulse  is 
generated.  This  pulse  is  eliminated  by  the  point  contact  diode  D2 . 

The  voltage  comparator  is  an  unstable  circuit  and  has  the  properties 

*  For  the  circuit  values  shown  in  Fig.  21,  the  output  pulse  has  a  peak  amplitude 
of  about  6  volts,  a  rise  time  of  0.5  microseconds,  and  a  pulse  width  of  about  2.0 
microseconds. 


32G 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


of  a  free  running  blocking  oscillator  after  the  input  voltage  Vi  passes 
through  the  reference  level.  After  a  period  of  time  the  transistor  will 
return  to  the  "on"  state  unless  the  voltage  Vi  is  sufficiently  large  at  this 
time  to  prevent  switching.  In  order  to  minimize  the  required  slope  of  the 
hiput  waveform  the  time  interval  between  the  instant  Vi  passes  through 
the  reference  level  and  the  instant  the  transistor  would  naturally  switch 
to  the  "on"  state  must  be  maximized.  This  time  intei-val  can  be  con- 
trolled by  connecting  a  diode  D3  across  the  secondary  winding  of  trans- 
former Ti  .  When  the  transistor  turns  off,  the  current  which  was  flowing 
through  the  secondary  of  transformer  Ti(Ic)  continues  to  flow  through 
the  diode  D3  so  that  L2  and  D3  form  an  inductive  discharge  circuit.  The 
point  contact  diode  D3  has  a  forward  dynamic  resistance  of  less  than  10 
ohms  and  a  forward  voltage  drop  of  0.3  volt.  If  the  small  forward  re- 
sistance of  the  diode  is  neglected,  the  time  required  for  the  current  in  the 
circuit  to  fall  to  zero  is 


T  = 


0.3 


(28) 


During  the  inductive  transient,  0.3  volt  is  induced  into  the  primary  of 
transformer  Ti  (since  N  =  1)  maintaining  the  transistor  cutoff.  The 
duration  of  the  inductive  transient  can  be  made  as  long  as  desired  by 
increasing  L2 .  However,  there  is  the  practical  limitation  that  increasing 
L2  also  increases  the  leakage  inductance  of  transformer  Ti ,  and  in  turn, 


I 


I 


-4.5V 


5.1K 


250A 


:iD2 


>3K 


A-l- 


OUTPUT 
PULSE 


V- 


INPUT 
WAVEFORM 


PULSE 
AMPLITUDE^, 
ADJUSTMENT^ 


•^ 


2.5  MEG  POT. 
I- 


jr 


ee' 


Ij,  =  4   MILS 

L,    =  L2=  5  MILLIHENRIES 

L',    =  L2=  5  MILLIHENRIES 

COEFFICIENT    OF 

COUPLING  =  0.99 


REFERENCE 
g^    LEVEL 

''adjustment 

MA 1 


I 
I 

-46V 


I 
I 

-t-1.5V 


100  OHM 
POT. 


I 
I 

-1.5V 


Fig.  21  —  Voltage  comparator. 


TRANSISTOR    CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS 


327 


increases  the  switching  time.  The  circuit  shown  in  Figure  21  does  not 
misfire  when  used  with  voltage  waveforms  having  slopes  as  small  as  25 
millivolts  per  microsecond,  at  the  reference  level. 


6.0.  A  TRANSISTOR  VOLTAGE  ENCODER 


6.1.  Circuit  Arrangement 


The  transistor  circuits  previously  described  can  be  assembled  into  a 
voltage  encoder  for  translating  analog  voltages  into  equivalent  time 
intervals.  This  encoder  is  especially  useful  for  converting  analog  informa- 
,  tion  (in  the  form  of  a  dc  potential)  into  the  digital  code  for  processing 
in  a  digital  system.  Fig.  22  shows  a  simplified  block  diagram  of  the 
encoder.  The  voltage  I'amp  generated  by  the  integrator  is  applied  to 
amplitude  selector  number  one  and  to  one  input  of  a  summing  amplifier. 
The  amplitude  selector  is  a  dc  amplifier  which  amplifies  the  voltage  ramp 
in  the  vicinity  of  zero  volts.  Voltage  comparator  number  one,  which 
follows  the  amplitude  selector,  generates  a  sharp  output  pulse  at  the 
exact  instant  of  time  that  the  voltage  ramp  passes  through  zero  volts. 

The  analog  input  voltage,  which  has  a  value  between  0  and  —15 
volts,*  is  applied  to  the  second  input  of  the  summing  amplifier.  The 
output  voltage  of  the  summing  amplifier  is  zero  whenever  the  ramp 


INTEGRATOR 


N0.1 


N0.1 


3000^65 


SUMMING 
AMPLIFIER 


AMPLITUDE 
SELECTORS 


VOLTAGE 
COMPARATORS 


ANALOG 

INPUT   VOLTAGE 

0-^-16V 


N0.2 


N0.2 


Fig.  22  — •  Simplified  block  diagram  of  voltage  encoder. 


*  If  the  analog  input  voltage  does  not  lie  in  this  range,  then  the  voltage  gain 
of  the  summing  amplifier  must  be  set  so  that  the  analog  voltage  at  the  output  of 
the  summing  amplifier  lies  in  the  voltage  range  between  0  and  +15  volts. 


328 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


voltage  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  the  input  analog  voltage.  At  this 
instant  of  time  the  second  voltage  comparator  generates  a  sharp  output 
pulse.  The  time  interval  between  the  two  output  pulses  is  proportional 
to  the  analog  input  voltage  if  the  voltage  ramp  is  linear  and  has  a  con- 
stant slope  at  all  times. 

6.2.  The  Amplitude  Selector  i 

The  amplitude  selector  increases  the  slope  of  the  input  voltage  wave- 
form (in  the  vicinity  of  zero  volts)  sufficiently  for  proper  operation  of  the 
voltage  comparator.  The  amplitude  selector  consists  of  a  limiter  and  a 
dc  feedback  amplifier  as  shown  in  Fig.  23.  The  two  oppositely  poled 
silicon  diodes  Di  and  D2 ,  limit  the  input  voltage  of  the  dc  amplifier  to 
about  ±0.65  volts.  The  dc  amplifier  has  a  voltage  gain  of  thirty,  and  so 
the  maximum  output  voltage  of  the  amplitude  selector  is  limited  to 
about  ±19.5  volts.  The  net  voltage  gain  between  the  input  and  output 
of  the  amplitude  selector  is  ten. 

The  principal  requirement  placed  on  the  dc  amplifier  is  that  the  input 
current  and  the  output  voltage  be  zero  when  the  input  voltage  is  zero. 
This  is  accomplished  by  placing  a  blocking  condenser  Cb  between  point 
T  and  the  base  of  the  first  transistor  stage,  and  by  using  an  AZS  circuit 
to  maintain  point  T  at  zero  volts.  The  dc  and  AZS  amplifiers  are  identical 
in  configuration  to  the  amplifiers  shown  in  Fig.  12.  The  dc  amplifier  is 


50  K 

-VvV 


50  K 


:|N 


D 


1:: 


SILICON 
DIODES 


Dp 


1.5  MEG 


Cb 

250 /ZF 


500  K 


I 


OUT 


I V^^ »— AAA^ 

50  K  1.5  MEG 


-1 


Fig.  23  —  Block  diagram  of  the  amplitude  selector. 


TRANSISTOR   CIRCUITS    FOR   ANALOG   AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         329 

designed  to  have  about  15.6  db  less  feedback  than  that  shown  in  Fig.  10 
since  this  amount  is  adequate  for  the  present  purpose. 

The  bandwidth  of  the  dc  ampHfier  is  only  of  secondary  importance 
because  the  phase  shifts  introduced  by  the  two  amplitude  selectors  in 
the  voltage  encoder  tend  to  compensate  each  other. 

6.3.  Experimental  Results 

The  accuracy  of  the  voltage  encoder  is  determined  by  applying  a 
precisely  measured  voltage  to  the  input  of  the  summing  amplifier  and  by 
measuring  the  time  interval  between  the  two  output  pulses.  The  maxi- 
mum error  due  to  nonlinearities  in  the  summing  amplifier  and  the  voltage 
ramp  is  less  than  ±0.5  microseconds  for  a  maximum  encoding  time  of 
3,000  microseconds.  An  additional  error  is  introduced  by  the  noise  voltage 
generated  in  the  first  transistor  stage  of  the  summing  amplifier.  The 

!  RMS  noise  voltage  at  the  output  of  the  summing  amplifier  is  less  than 
0.5  millivolts.  This  noise  voltage  produces  an  RMS  jitter  of  0.25  micro- 

I  seconds  in  the  position  of  the  second  voltage  comparator  output  pulse. 

;  The  over-all  accuracy  of  the  voltage  encoder  is  one  part  in  4,000  through- 

'  out  a  temperature  range  of  20°C  to  40°C. 

1 
I 

i  ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

! 

I  The  author  wishes  to  express  his  appreciation  to  T.  R.  Finch  for  the 
^  advice  and  encouragement  received  in  the  course  of  this  work.  D.  W. 
!  Grant  and  W.  B.  Harris  designed  and  constructed  the  magnettor  used 
'  in  the  AZS  circuit  of  the  integrator. 

I  Appendix  I 

I  RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  RETURN  DIFFERENCE  AND  LOOP  CURRENT 
i       TRANSMISSION 

}  In  order  to  place  the  stability  analysis  of  the  transistor  feedback  ampli- 
fier on  a  sound  basis,  it  is  desirable  to  use  the  concept  of  return  differ- 
ence. It  will  be  shown  that  a  measurable  quantity,  called  the  loop  current 
transmission,  can  be  related  to  the  return  difference  of  aZc  with  reference 
Ve  .*•  t  In  Fig.  24,  N  represents  the  complete  transistor  network  exclusive 
of  the  transistor  under  consideration.  The  feedback  loop  is  broken  at 
the  input  to  the  transistor  by  connecting  all  of  the  feedback  paths  to 

*  In  this  appendix  it  is  assumed  that  the  transistor  under  consideration  is  in 
the  common  emitter  connection.  The  discussion  can  be  readily  extended  to  the 
other  transistor  connections. 

t  This  fact  was  pointed  out  by  F.  H.  Tendick,  Jr. 


330 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Te+rb 


^6^4 (    'V 


-aZcLb 


N 

COMPLETE 
AMPLIFIER 
EXCLUSIVE 

OF    THE 
TRANSISTOR 
IN   QUESTION 


Fig.  24  —  Measurement  of  loop  current  transmission. 


ground  through  a  resistance  (/•<;  +  n)  and  a  voltage  r  J4  •  Using  the 
nomenclature  given  in  Reference  8,  the  input  of  the  complete  circuit  is 
designated  as  the  first  mesh  and  the  output  of  the  complete  circuit  is 
designated  as  the  second  mesh.  The  input  and  output  meshes  of  the 
transistor  under  consideration  are  designated  3  and  4,  respectively.  The 
loop  current  transmission  is  equal  to  I3',  the  total  returned  current  when 
a  unit  input  current  is  applied  to  the  base  of  the  transistor. 

The  return  difference  for  reference  Ve  is  equal  to  the  algebraic  differ- 
ence* between  the  unit  input  current  and  the  returned  current  h'.  1 3  is 
evaluated  by  multiplying  the  open  circuit  voltage  in  mesh  4  (produced 
by  the  unit  base  current)  by  the  backward  transmission  from  mesh  4  to 
mesh  3  with  zero  forward  transmission  through  the  transistor  under 
consideration.  The  open  circuit  voltage  in  mesh  4  is  equal  to  (re  —  aZc). 
The  backward  transmission  is  determined  with  the  element  aZc ,  in  the 
fourth  row,  third  column  of  the  circuit  determinant,  set  equal  to  Ve . 
Hence,  the  return  difference  is  expressed  as 

A43 


Fr'    =  1  +  {aZc  -  re) 


(Al)t 


Fr'      = 


A''*  +  {aZc  -  r.)A 


43 


ir', 


(A2) 


Fr'.= 


A^'' 


=    1+    Tr' 


(A3) 


The  relative  return  ratio  Tr',  is  equal  to  the  negative  of  the  loop  current 
transmission  and  can  be  measured  as  shown  in  Fig.  24.  The  voltage  reh 
takes  into  account  the  fact  that  the  junction  transistor  is  not  perfectly 


*  The  positive  direction  for  the  returned  current  is  chosen  so  that  if  the  original 
circuit  is  restored,  the  returned  current  flows  in  the  same  direction  as  the  input 
current. 

t  A''«  is  the  network  determinant  with  the  element  aZc  in  the  fourth  row,  third 
column  of  the  circuit  determinant  set  equal  to  r,  . 


TRANSISTOR    CIRCUITS    FOR    ANALOG    AND    DIGITAL   SYSTEMS         331 


unilateral.  Fortunately,  in  many  applications,  this  voltage  can  be  neg- 
lected even  at  the  gain  and  phase  crossover  frequencies. 

In  the  case  of  single  loop  feedback  amplifiers.  A""*  will  not  have  any 
zeros  in  the  right  hand  half  of  the  complex  frequency  plane.  A  study  of 
the  stability  of  the  amplifier  can  then  be  based  on  F^-,  or  T^-,  . 

Appendix  II 

INTERSTAGE   NETWORK   SHAPING 

This  appendix  presents  the  analysis  of  the  circuit  shown  in  Fig.  7(a). 
The  input  impedance  of  the  common  emitter  connected  junction  tran- 
sistor is  given  by  the  expression 

^iNPUT  =  n-\-  re(l  -  Gl)  (A4) 

where  Gi  is  the  current  transmission  of  the  common  emitter  stage,  ex- 
pression (13).  The  current  transmission  A  of  the  complete  circuit  is  equal 
to 

A  =  ^  =  ^ 

I\  Zz   -\-    ^  IN  PUT 


G, 


(A5) 


where  Z3  =  i?3  +  V^  +  (l/p<^3).  Combining  (13),  (A4),  and  (A5)  yields 


ao 


A  = 


1  —  ao  +  5 


1  + 


C03 


+  V 


\  W5/    I,  Wl 


(A6) 


+  p^ 


W5         ,     CsOO^in   +  Te   -\-   R3) 


_C0iC03- 


+ 


PCO5 


where 


WaWc(l    —    tto    -}-    6)    J      '      CO3^C0aC0c(l     —    ^Q    "j-    6)  j 
^    ^    Rl    +  Te 

COl    = 
Wc    = 


CO3 


OJs    = 


(1  -  ao  +  5) 

1  +  6  _^    1 

1 

(R^  +  r,)Co 
1 

1 

~.    .             ^« 

C 

(1  -  ao 

+  5)J^ 

332  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

Expression  (A6)  is  valid  if  l/ws  ^  1/coi  +  RzCz .  The  denominator  of  the 
expression  indicates  a  falUng  6  db  per  octave  asymptote  with  a  corner, 
frequency  at  ws  .  The  second  factor  in  the  denominator  can  be  approxi- 
mated bj^  a  falHng  6  db  per  octave  asymptote  with  a  corner  frequency  at 


COl 


1  ^^ 

n  + 


(1  -  ao  +  5) 


] 


n   -\-    Te    -^    Rz   -\-    W1L3 

pkis  additional  phase  and  amplitude  contributions  at  higher  f recjuencies 
due  to  the  y  and  p  terms.  If 


COzCzRz 


then  the  circuit  has  a  rising  12  db  per  octave  asymptote  with  a  corner 
frequency  at  C03  .  Fig.  7(b)  shows  the  amplitude  and  phase  of  the  current 
transmission. 


REFERENCES 

1.  Felker,  J.  H.,  Regenerative  Amplifier  for  Digital  Computer  Applications, 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  1584-1596,  Nov.,  1952. 

2.  Korn,  G.  A.,  and  Korn,  T.  M.,  Electronic  Analog  Computers,  McGraw-Hil 

Book  Company,  pp.  9-19. 

3.  Wallace,  R.  L.  and  Pietenpol,  W.  J.,  Some  Circuit  Properties  and  Applications 

of  n-p-n  Transistors,  B.  S.T.J. ,  30,  pp.  530-563,  July,  1951. 

4.  Shockley,  W.,  Sparks,  M.  and  Teal,  G.  K.,  The  p-n  Junction  Transistor, 

Physical  Review,  83,  pp.  151-162,  July,  1951. 

5.  Pritchard,  R.  L.,  Frequenc}'  Variation  of  Current-Amplification  for  Junction 

Transistors,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  1476-1481,  Nov.,  1952. 

6.  Early,  J.  M.,  Design  Theory  of  Junction  Transistors,  B.S.T.J.,  32,  pp.  1271- 

1312,  Nov.,  1953. 

7.  Sziklai,  G.  C,  Symmetrical  Properties  of  Transistors  and  Their  Applications, 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  717-724,  June,  1953. 

8.  Bode,  H.  W.,  Network  Analysis  and  Feedback  Amplifier  Design,  Van  Nos- 

trand  Co.,  Inc.,  Chapter  IV. 

9.  Bode,  H.  W.,  Op.  Cit.,  pp.  66-69. 

10.  Bode,  H.  W.,  Op.  Cit.,  pp.  162-164. 

11.  Bargellini,  P.  M.  and  Herscher,  M.  B.,  Investigation  of  Noise  in  Audio  Fre- 

quency Amplifiers  Using  Junction  Transistors,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  217-226,' 
Feb.,  1955. 

12.  Bode,  H.  W.,  Op.  Cit.,  pp.  464-468,  and  pp.  471-473. 

13.  Keonjian,  E.,  Temperature  Compensated  DC  Transistor  Amplifier,  Proc: 

I.R.E.,  pp.  661-671,  April,  1954. 

14.  Kretzmer,  E.  R.,  An  Amplitude  Stabilized  Transistor  Oscillator,  Proc.  I.R.E.,« 

pp.  391-401,  Feb.,  1954.  i 

15.  Goldberg,  E.  A.,  Stabilization  of  Wide-Band  Direct-Current  Amplifiers  for 

Zero  and  Gain,  R.C.A.  Review,  June,  1950. 

16.  Ebers,  J.  J.  and  Moll,  J.  L.,  Large  Signal  Behavior  of  Junction  Transistors. 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  1761-1772,  Dec,  1954. 

17.  Manlej',  J.  M.,  Some  General  Properties  of  Magnetic  Amplifiers,  Proc.  I.R.K. 

March,  1951. 

18.  M.I.T.,  Waveforms,  Volume  19  of  the  Radiation  Laboratories  Series.  McGraw 

Hill  Book  Company,  pp.  342-344. 


Electrolytic  Shaping  of  Germanium 
,  and  Silicon 

^  By  A.  UHLIR,  JR. 

i  (Manuscript  received  November  9,  1955) 

Properties  of  electrolyte-semiconductor  barriers  are  described,  with  em- 
phasis on  germanium.  The  use  of  these  barriers  in  localizing  electrolytic 
!  etching  is  discussed.  Other  localization  techniques  are  mentioned.  Electro- 
lytes for  etching  germanium  and  silicon  are  given. 

I 

INTRODUCTION 

I 

I      Mechanical  shaping  techniques,  such  as  abrasive  cutting,  leave  the 
surface  of  a  semiconductor  in  a  damaged  condition  which  adversely 
affects  the  electrical  properties  of  p-n  junctions  in  or  near  the  damaged 
j  material.  Such  damaged  material  may  be  removed  by  electrolytic  etch- 
ing. Alternatively,  all  of  the  shaping  may  be  done  electrolytically,  so 
that  no  damaged  material  is  produced.  Electrolytic  shaping  is  particu- 
[  larly  well  suited  to  making  devices  with  small  dimensions. 
I     A  discussion  of  electrolytic  etching  can  conveniently  be  divided  into 
[■  two  topics  —  the  choice  of  electrolyte  and  the  method  of  localizing  the 
ji  etching  action  to  produce  a  desired  shape.  It  is  usually  possible  to  find 
1  an  electrolyte  in  which  the  rate  at  which  material  is  removed  is  accurately 
proportional  to  the  current.  For  semiconductors,  just  as  for  metals,  the 
I  choice  of  electrolyte  is  a  specific  problem  for  each  material ;  satisfactory 
j  electrolytes  for  germanium  and  silicon  will  be  described. 

The  principles  of  localization  are  the  same,  whatever  the  electrolyte 

used.  Electrolytic  etching  takes  place  where  current  flows  from  the 

semiconductor  to  the  electrolyte.  Current  flow  may  be  concentrated  at 

I  certain  areas  of  the  semiconductor-electrolyte  interface  by  controlling 

the  flow  of  current  in  the  electrolyte  or  in  the  semiconductor. 

LOCALIZATION    IN    ELECTROLYTE 

Localization  techniques  involving  the  electrolytic  current  are  appli- 
cable to  both  metals  and  semiconductors.  In  some  of  these  techniques, 

333 


334  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

the  localization  is  so  effective  that  the  barrier  effects  found  with  n-type 
semiconductors  can  be  ignored;  if  not,  the  barrier  can  be  overcome  by 
light  or  heat,  as  will  be  described  below. 

If  part  of  the  work  is  coated  with  an  insulating  varnish,  electrolytic 
etching  will  take  place  only  on  the  uncoated  surfaces.  This  technique, 
often  called  "masking,"  has  the  limitation  that  the  etching  undercuts 
the  masking  if  any  considerable  amount  of  material  is  removed.  The  i 
same  limitation  applies  to  photoengraving,  in  which  the  insulating  coat- 
ing is  formed  by  the  action  of  light. 

The  cathode  of  the  electrolytic  cell  may  be  limited  in  size  and  placed 
close  to  the  work  (which  is  the  anode).  Then  the  etching  rate  will  be 
greatest  at  parts  of  the  work  that  are  nearest  the  cathode.  Various 
shapes  can  be  produced  by  moving  the  cathode  with  respect  to  the  I 
work,  or  by  using  a  shaped  cathode.  For  example,  a  cathode  in  the  form  | 
of  a  wire  has  been  used  to  slice  germanium. 

Instead  of  a  true  metallic  cathode,  a  "virtual  cathode"  may  be  used 
to  localize  electrolysis.^  In  this  technique,  the  anode  and  true  cathode 
are  separated  from  each  other  by  a  nonconducting  partition,  except  for 
a  small  opening  in  the  partition.  As  far  as  localization  of  current  to  the 
anode  is  concerned,  the  small  opening  acts  like  a  cathode  of  equal  size 
and  so  is  called  a  virtual  cathode.  The  nonconducting  partition  may 
include  a  glass  tube  drawn  down  to  a  tip  as  small  as  one  micron  diameter 
but  nevertheless  open  to  the  flow  of  electrolytic  current.  With  such  a 
tip  as  a  virtual  cathode,  micromachining  can  be  conducted  on  a  scale 
comparable  to  the  wavelength  of  visible  light.  A  general  advantage  of 
the  virtual  cathode  technique  is  that  the  cathode  reaction  (usually 
hydrogen  evolution)  does  not  interfere  with  the  localizing  action  nor 
with  observation  of  the  process.  :| 

In  the  jet-etching  technique,  a  jet  of  electrolyte  impinges  on  the 
work.^'*  The  free  streamlines  that  bound  the  flowing  electrolyte  are 
governed  primarily  by  momentum  and  energy  considerations.  In  turn, 
the  shape  of  the  electrolyte  stream  determines  the  localization  of  etch- 
ing. A  stream  of  electrolyte  guided  by  wires  has  been  used  to  etch  semi- 
conductor devices.^  Surface  tension  has  an  important  influence  on  the 
free  streamlines  in  this  case, 

PROPERTIES   OF   ELECTROLYTE-SEMICONDUCTOR   BARRIERS 

The  most  distinctive  feature  of  electrolytic  etching  of  semiconductors 
is  the  occurrence  of  rectifying  barriers.  Barrier  effects  for  germanium 
will  be  described;  those  for  silicon  are  qualitatively  similar. 

The  voltage-current  curves  for  anodic  n-type  and  p-type  germanium 


ELECTROLYTIC    SHAPING   OF    GERMANIUM    AND    SILICON 


335 


[in  10  per  cent  KOH  are  shown  in  Fig.  1.  Tlie  concentration  of  KOH 

[is  not  critical  and  other  electrolytes  give  similar  results.  The  voltage 

'drop  for  the  p-type  specimen  is  small.  For  anodic  n-type  germanium, 

!  however,  the  barrier  is  in  the  reverse  or  blocking  direction  as  evidenced 

by  a  large  voltage  drop.  The  fact  that  n-type  germanium  differs  from 

p-type  germanium  only  by  very  small  amounts  of  impurities  suggests 

that  the  barrier  is  a  semiconductor  phenomenon  and  not  an  electro- 

i  chemical  one.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  light  sensitivity  of  the  n-type 

1  voltage-current  characteristic.  Fig.  2  is  a  schematic  diagram  of  the 

!  arrangement  for  obtaining  voltage-current  curves.  A  mercury-mercuric 

loxide-10  per  cent  KOH  reference  electrode  was  used  at  first,  but  a  gold 

(wire  was  found  equally  satisfactory.  At  zero  current,  a  voltage  Vo  exists 

j  between  the  germanium  and  the  reference  electrode ;  this  voltage  is  not 

[included  in  Fig.  1. 

I  The  saturation  current  Is  ,  measured  for  the  n-type  barrier  at  a 
\moderate  reverse  voltage  (see  Fig.  1),  is  plotted  as  a  function  of  tempera- 
Iture  in  Fig.  3.  The  saturation  current  increases  about  9  per  cent  per 
[degree,  just  as  for  a  germanium  p-n  junction,  which  indicates  that  the 

I 


40 


35 


30 


^25 

Lil 

O  20 


15 


10 


1 

12  OHM-CM 
n-TYPE 

/ 

DAR\<. 

1 
/ 

/ 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1 

/ 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

WITH  ; 
LIGHT  ^' 
1 

1 

I 
1 

1 

1 

n 

i 

1 

1 
/ 
/         P- 

FYPE 

10  20  30  40  50  60 

CURRENT   FLOW  IN  MILLIAMPERES  PER   CM^ 


Fig.  1  —  Anodic  voltage-current  characteristics  of  germanium. 


336 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHXICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


current  is  proportional  to  the  equilibrium  density  of  minority  carriers 
(holes).  The  same  conclusion  may  be  drawn  from  Fig.  4,  which  shows 
that  the  saturation  current  is  higher,  the  higher  the  resistivity  of  the 
n-type  germanium.  But  the  breakdown  voltages  are  variable  and  usu- 
ally much  lower  than  one  would  expect  for  planar  p-n  junctions  made, 
for  example,  by  alloying  indium  into  the  same  n-type  germanium. 

Breakdown  in  bulk  junctions  is  attributed  to  an  avalanche  multipli- 
cation of  carriers  in  high  fields.^  The  same  mechanism  may  be  responsible 
for  breakdown  of  the  germanium-electrolyte  barrier;  low  and  variable 
breakdown  voltages  may  be  caused  by  the  pits  described  below. 

The  electrolyte-germanium  barrier  exhibits  a  kind  of  current  multi- 
plication that  differs  from  high-field  multiplication  in  two  respects:  it 
occurs  at  much  lower  reverse  voltages  and  does  not  vary  much  with 
voltage.^  This  effect  can  be  demonstrated  very  simply  by  comparison 
with  a  metal-germanium  barrier,  on  the  assumption  that  the  latter  has 
a  current  multiplication  factor  of  unity.  This  assumption  is  supported 
by  experiments  which  indicate  that  current  flows  almost  entirely  by 
hole  flow,  for  good  metal-germanium  barriers. 

The  experimental  arrangement  is  indicated  in  Fig.  5(a)  and  (b).  The 
voltage-current  curves  for  an  electrolyte  barrier  and  a  plated  barrier  on 
the  same  slice  of  germanium  are  shown  in  Fig.  5(c).*  The  curves  for  the 


REFERENCE 
ELECTRODE 


CATHODE 


LIGHT 


Fig.  2  —  Arrangement  for  obtaining  voltage  current  characteristics. 


*  In  Fig.  5  the  dark  current  for  the  phited  barrier  is  much  hirger  than  can  be 
exphained  on  the  basis  of  hole  current;  it  is  even  higher  than  the  dark  current  for 
the  electrolyte  barrier,  which  should  be  at  least  1.4  times  the  hole  current.  This 
excess  dark  current  is  believed  to  be  leakage  at  the  edges  of  the  plated  area  and 
probably  does  not  affect  the  intrinsic  current  multiplication  of  the  plated  barrier 
as  a  whole. 


ELECTROLYTIC   SHAPING    OF    GERMANIUM    AND    SILICON 


337 


10 


2 
o 

a. 

01 

a. 
to 

Ui 

oc 

LU 
Q. 

5 
< 

_) 


m 
cc 
tr 

3 
U 

z 
o 

cc 

3 
(0 


•>  I 


10" 


/ 

{ 

- 

/ 

- 

1 

/ 

7 

/ 

/ 

/ 

- 

/% 

- 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

n/ 

^ 

y 

i<:i 


0  10  20  30  40  50  60 

TEMPERATURE  IN  DEGREES  CENTIGRADE 

Fig.  3  —  Temperature  variation  of  the  saturation  current  of  a  barrier  between 
5.5  ohm-cm  n-type  germanium  and  10  per  cent  KOH  solution. 


illuminated  condition  were  obtained  by  shining  light  on  a  dry  face  of  a 
slice  while  the  barriers  were  on  the  other  face.  The  difference  between 
the  light  and  dark  currents  is  larger  for  the  electrolyte-germanium  bar- 
rier than  for  the  metal-germanium  barrier,  by  a  factor  of  about  1.4. 

The  transport  of  holes  through  the  slice  is  probably  not  very  different 
for  the  two  barriers.  Therefore,  a  current  multiplication  of  1.4  is  indi- 
cated for  the  electrolyte  barrier.  About  the  same  value  was  found  for 
temperatures  from  15°C  to  60°C,  KOH  concentrations  from  0.01  per 
cent  to  10  per  cent,  n-type  resistivities  of  0.2  ohm-cm  to  6  ohm-cm, 
light  currents  of  0.1  to  1.0  ma/cm^,  and  for  O.IN  indium  sulfate. 

Evidently  the  flow  of  holes  to  the  electrolyte  barrier  is  accompanied 
by  a  proportionate  return  flow  of  electrons,  which  constitutes  an  addi- 
tional electric  current.  Possible  mechanisms  for  the  creation  of  the 
electrons  will  be  discussed  in  a  forthcoming  article. 


338  THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

7 


>    4 


LU 

o 
> 


I 


0,5  1.0  1 

CURRENT  F 


5  2.0         2.5  3.0  3.5         4.0 

LOW  IN  MILLIAMPERES  PER  CM^ 


4.5 


Fig.  4.  —  Anodic  voltage -current  curves  for  various  resistivities  of  germanium. 


SCRATCHES    AND    PITTING 

The  voltage- current  curve  of  an  electrolyte-germanium   barrier  is 
very  sensitive  to  scratches.  The  curves  given  in  the  illustrations  were : 
obtained  on  material  previously  etched  smooth  in  CP-4,  a  chemical  I 
etch.*  '' 

If,  instead,  one  starts  with  a  lapped  piece  of  n-type  germanium,  the 
electrolyte-germanium  barrier  is  essentially  "ohmic;"  that  is,  the  voltage 
drop  is  small  and  proportional  to  the  current.  A  considerable  reverse 
voltage  can  be  attained  if  lapped  n-type  germanium  is  electrolytically 
etched  long  enough  to  remove  most  of  the  damaged  germanium.  How- 
ever, a  pitted  surface  results  and  the  breakdown  voltage  achieved  is 
not  as  high  as  for  a  smooth  chemically-etched  surface. 

The  depth  of  damage  introduced  by  typical  abrasive  sawing  and 
lapping  was  investigated  by  noting  the  voltage-current  curve  of  the 


Br2 


Five  parts  HNO3  ,  3  parts  48  per  cent  HF,  3  parts  glacial  acetic  acid,  ^0  P^-^t 


ELECTROLYTIC   SHAPING   OF   GERMANIUM   AND   SILICON 


339 


electrolyte-germanium  barrier  after  various  amounts  of  material  had 
been  removed  by  chemical  etching.  After  20  to  50  microns  had  been  re- 
moved, further  chemical  etching  produced  no  change  in  the  barrier 
characteristic.  This  amount  of  material  had  to  be  removed  even  if  the 
lapping  was  followed  by  polishing  to  a  mirror  finish.  The  voltage-current 
curve  of  the  electrolyte-germanium  barrier  will  reveal  localized  damage. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  photomagnetoelectric  (PME)  measurement  of 


I 

-< — 

REFERENCE 
ELECTRODE 

CATHODE- 

-- 

-^ 

■< 

■y 

GLASS   TUBING 

CEMENTED 

TO  Ge 

E 

LECTROLYT 

z         i 

N-Ge 

■^ 

1 

1 

1 
1 

<rri> 


(a) 


ELECTROPLATED 
INDIUM 


METAL  TO  N-Ge 
CONTACT 

ELECTROLYTE   TO 
N-Ge    BARRIER 


(c) 


0  2  4  6 

CURRENT,  I,  IN   MILLIAMPERES 

PER    CM  2 


Fig.  5  —  Determination  of  the  current  multiplication  of  the  barrier  between 
6  ohm-cm  n-type  germanium  and  an  electrolyte. 


340  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


Fig.  6  —  Electrolytic  etch  pits  on  two  sides  of  0.02-inch  slice  of  n-type  germa- 
nium. Half  of  the  slice  was  in  contact  with  the  electrolyte. 

surface  recombination  velocity  gives  an  evaluation  of  the  average  con- 
dition of  the  surface.  A  variation  of  the  PME  method  has  been  used 
to  study  the  depth  of  abrasion  damage;  the  damage  revealed  by  this 
method  extends  only  to  a  depth  comparable  to  the  abrasive  size. 

A  scratch  is  sufficient  to  start  a  pit  that  increases  in  size  without  limit 
if  anodic  etching  is  prolonged.  However,  a  scratch  is  not  necessary.  Pits 
are  formed  even  when  one  starts  with  a  smooth  surface  produced  by 
chemical  etching.  A  drop  in  the  breakdown  voltage  of  the  barrier  is 
noticed  when  one  or  more  pits  form.  The  breakdown  voltage  can  be 
restored  by  masking  the  pits  with  polystyrene  cement. 

Evidence  that  the  spontaneous  pits  are  caused  by  some  features  of 
the  crystal,  itself,  was  obtained  from  an  experiment  on  single-crystal 
n-type  germanium  made  by  an  early  version  of  the  zone-leveling  process. 
A  slice  of  this  material  was  electrolytically  etched  on  both  sides,  after 
preliminary  chemical  etching.  Photographs  of  the  two  sides  of  the  slice 
are  shown  in  Fig.  6.  Only  half  of  the  slice  was  immersed  in  the  electro- 
lyte. The  electrolytic  etch  pits  are  concentrated  in  certain  regions  of 
the  slice  —  the  same  general  regions  on  both  sides  of  the  slice.  It  is 
interesting  that  radioautographs  and  resistivity  measurements  indicate 
high  donor  concentrations  in  these  regions.  Improvements,  including 
more  intensive  stirring,  were  made  in  the  zone-leveling  process,  and  the 
electrolytic  etch  pit  distribution  and  the  donor  radioautographs  have 
been  much  more  uniform  for  subsequent  material. 

Several  pits  on  a  (100)  face  are  shown  in  Fig.  7.  The  pits  grow  most 
rapidly  in  (100)  directions  and  give  the  spiked  effect  seen  in  the  illustra- 
tion. Toiler  prolonged  etching,  the  spikes  and  their  branches  form  a  com- 
plex network  of  caverns  beneath  the  surface  of  the  germanium. 

High-field  carrier  generation  may  be  responsible  for  pitting.  A  locally 


ELECTROLYTIC   SHAPING    OF    GERMAXIUM   AND    SILICON 


341 


Fig.  7  —  Electrolytic  etch  pits  on  n-type  germanium. 

high  donor  concentration  would  favor  breakdown,  as  would  any  con- 
cavity of  the  germanium  surface  (which  would  cause  a  higher  field  for 
a  given  voltage) .  Very  high  fields  must  occur  at  the  points  of  spikes  such 

jas  those  shown  in  Fig.  7.  The  continued  growth  of  the  spikes  is  thus 
favored  by  their  geometry. 

Microscopic  etch  pits  arising  from  chemical  etching  have  been  corre- 

;lated  with  the  edge  dislocations  of  small-angle  grain  boundaries.     A 

I  specimen  of  n-type  germanium  with  chemical  etch  pits  was  photomicro- 
graphed  and  then  etched  electrolytically.  The  etch  pits  produced  elec- 
trolytically  could  not  be  correlated  with  the  chemical  etch  pits,  most 
of  which  were  still  visible  and  essentially  unchanged  in  appearance. 
Also,  no  correlation  could  be  found  between  either  kind  of  etch  pit  and 
the  locations  at  which  copper  crystallites  formed  upon  immersion  in  a 
copper  sulfate  solution.  Microscopic  electrolytic  etch  pits  at  dislocations 

j  in  p-type  germanium  have  been  reported  in  a  recent  paper  that  also 
I  mentions  the  deep  pits  produced  on  n-type  germanium.^* 
y     Electrolytic  etch  pits  are  observed  on  n-type  and  high-resistivity 
silicon.  These  etch  pits  are  more  nearly  round  than  those  produced  in 
germanium. 

In  spite  of  the  pitting  phenomenon,  electrolytic  etching  is  success- 


342 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


I 

fully  used  in  the  fabrication  of  devices  involving  n-type  semiconductors. 
Pitting  can  be  reduced  relative  to  "normal"  uniform  etching  by  any 
agency  that  increases  the  concentration  of  holes  in  the  semiconductor. 
Thus,  elevated  temperatures,  flooding  with  light,  and  injection  of  holes 
by  an  emitter  all  favor  smooth  etching. 


SHAPING   BY   MEANS   OF   INJECTED    CARRIERS 


I 


Hole-electron  pairs  are  produced  when  light  is  absorbed  by  semi- 
conductors. Light  of  short  wavelength  is  absorbed  in  a  short  distance, 
while  long  wavelength  light  causes  generation  at  considerable  depths. 
The  holes  created  by  the  light  move  by  diffusion  and  drift  and  increase 
the  current  flow  through  an  anodic  electrolyte-germanium  barrier  at 
whatever  point  they  happen  to  encounter  the  barrier.  In  general,  more 
holes  will  diffuse  to  a  barrier,  the  nearer  the  barrier  is  to  the  point  at 
which  the  holes  are  created.  For  n-type  semiconductors,  the  current 
due  to  the  light  can  be  orders  of  magnitude  greater  than  the  dark  cur- 
rent, so  that  the  shape  resulting  from  etching  is  almost  entirely  deter- 
mined by  the  light.  As  shown  in  Fig.  3,  the  dark  current  can  be  made 
very  small  by  lowering  the  temperature. 

An  example  of  the  shaping  that  can  be  done  with  light  is  shown  in 
Fig.  8.  A  spot  of  light  impinges  on  one  side  of  a  wafer  of  n-type  germanium 
or  silicon.  The  semiconductor  is  made  anodic  with  respect  to  an  etching 
electrolyte.  Accurately  concentric  dimples  are  produced  on  both  sides  of 
the  wafer.  Two  mechanisms  operate  to  transmit  the  effect  to  the  oppo- 
site side.  One  is  that  some  of  the  light  may  penetrate  deeply  before 
generating  a  hole-electron  pair.  The  other  is  that  a  fraction  of  the  car- 
riers generated  near  the  first  surface  will  diffuse  to  the  opposite  side. 
By  varying  the  spectral  content  of  the  light  and  the  depth  within  the  \ 


\ 


-n-TYPE    SEMICONDUCTOR 


LIGHT 


I  I 


Fig.  8  —  Double  dimpling  with  light. 


ELECTROLYTIC   SHAPING   OF    GERMANIUM   AND   SILICON 


343 


wafer  at  which  the  light  is  focused,  one  can  produce  dimples  with  a  vari- 
,'ety  of  shapes  and  relative  sizes. 

I  It  is  obvious  that  the  double-dimpled  wafer  of  Fig.  8  is  desirable  for 
{the  production  of  p-n-p  alloy  transistors.  For  such  use,  one  of  the  most 
[important  dimensions  is  the  thickness  remaining  between  the  bottoms 
of  the  two  dimples.  As  has  been  mentioned  in  connection  with  the  jet- 
I  etching  process,  a  convenient  way  of  monitoring  this  thickness  to  de- 
Itermine  the  endpoint  of  etching  is  to  note  the  transmission  of  light  of 
[suitable  wavelength.^  There  is,  however,  a  control  method  that  is  itself 
[automatic.  It  is  based  on  the  fact  that  at  a  reverse-biased  p-n  junction 
[Or  electrolyte-semiconductor  barrier  there  is  a  space-charge  region  that 
is  practically  free  of  carriers.  When  the  specimen  thickness  is  reduced 
so  that  space-charge  regions  extend  clear  through  it,  current  ceases  to 
flow  and  etching  stops  in  the  thin  regions,  as  long  as  thermally  or  op- 
tically generated  carriers  can  be  neglected.  However,  more  pitting  is  to 
be  expected  in  this  method  than  when  etching  is  conducted  in  the  pres- 
ence of  an  excess  of  injected  carriers. 

A  p-n  junction  is  a  means  of  injecting  holes  into  n-type  semiconduc- 
tors and  is  the  basis  of  another  method  of  dimpling,  shown  in  Fig.  9. 
The  p-n  junction  can  be  made  by  an  alloying  process  such  as  bonding 
an  acceptor-doped  gold  wire  to  germanium.  The  ohmic  contact  can  be 
made  by  bonding  a  donor-doped  gold  wire  and  permits  the  injection  of 
a  greater  excess  of  holes  than  would  be  possible  if  the  current  through 
the  p-n  junction  were  exactly  equal  to  the  etching  current.  Dimpling 
without  the  ohmic  contact  has  been  reported.^ 


14 


OHMIC    CONTACT 


p-n   JUNCTION 


Fig.  9  —  Dimpling  with  carriers  injected  by  a  p-n  junction. 


344 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


CONTROL   BY   OHMIC    CONDUCTION 

The  carrier-injection  shaping  techniques  work  very  well  for  n-typei 
material.  It  is  also  possible  to  inject  a  significant  number  of  holes  intos 
rather  high  resistivity  p-type  material.  But  what  can  be  done  about: 
p-type  material  in  general,  short  of  developing  cathodic  etches?  ] 

The  ohmic  resistivity  of  p-type  material  can  be  used  as  shown  in  Fig.!^ 
10.  More  etching  currect  flows  through  surfaces  near  the  small  contact 
than  through  more  remote  surfaces.  A  substantial  dimpling  effect  is 
observed  when  the  semiconductor  resistivity  is  equal  to  the  electrolyte 
resistivity,  but  improved  dimpling  is  obtained  on  higher  resistivity 
semiconductor.  This  result  is  just  what  one  might  expect.  But  the  math- 
ematical solution  for  ohmic  flow  from  a  point  source  some  distance  from 
a  planar  boundary  between  semi-infinite  materials  of  different  conduc- 
tivities shows  that  the  current  density  distribution  does  not  depend  on 
the  conductivities.  An  important  factor  omitted  in  the  mathematical 
solution  is  the  small  but  significant  barrier  voltage,  consisting  largely  of 
electrochemical  polarization  in  the  electrolyte.  The  barrier  voltage  is; 
approximately  proportional  to  the  logarithm  of  the  current  density; 
while  the  ohmic  voltage  drops  are  proportional  to  current  density.  Thus,- 
high  current  favors  localization. 

ELECTROLYTES   FOR   ETCHING   GERMANIUM   AND    SILICON  » 

The  electrolyte  usually  has  two  functions  in  the  electrolytic  etching 
of  an  oxidizable  substance.  First,  it  must  conduct  the  current  necessary 
for  the  oxidation.  Second,  it  must  somehow  effect  removal  of  the  oxida- 
tion product  from  the  surface  of  the  material  being  etched. 

The  usefulness  of  an  electrolytic  etch  depends  upon  one  or  both  of: 


ANY    CONTACT, 
PREFERABLY  OHMIC 


^//yyyy//y/y/y////////y////y/////yyyyyyyyyyy7^ 


Fig.  10  —  Dimpling  by  ohmic  conduction. 


ELECTROLYTIC    SHAPING    OF    GERMANIUM   AND    SILICON  345 

the  following  situations  —  the  electrolytic  process  accomplishes  a  reac- 
tion that  cannot  be  achieved  as  conveniently  in  any  other  way  or  it 
permits  greater  control  to  be  exercised  over  the  reaction.  Accordingly, 
chemical  attack  by  the  chosen  electrolyte  must  be  slight  relative  to  the 
electrochemical  etching. 

A  smooth  surface  is  probably  desirable  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  p-n 
junction,  to  avoid  field  concentrations  and  lowering  of  breakdown 
voltage.  Therefore,  a  tentative  requirement  for  an  electrolyte  is  the 
production  of  a  smooth,  shiny  surface  on  the  p-type  semiconductor.  Such 

\  an  electrolyte  will  give  a  shiny  but  possibly  pitted  surface  on  n-type 

j  specimens  of  the  same  semiconductor. 

The  effective  valence  of  a  material  being  electrolytically  etched  is 

;  defined  as  the  number  of  electrons  that  traverse  the  circuit  divided  by 
the  number  of  atoms  of  material  removed.  (The  amount  of  material 

!  removed  was  determined  by  weighing  in  the  experiments  to  be  described.) 
If  the  effective  valence  turns  out  to  be  less  than  the  valence  one  might 
predict  from  the  chemistry  of  stable  compounds,  the  etching  is  sometimes 
said  to  be  "more  than  100  per  cent  efficient."  Since  the  anode  reactions 
in  electrolytic  etching  may  involve  unstable  intermediate  compounds 
and  competing  reactions,  one  need  not  be  surprised  at  low  or  fractional 
effective  valences. 

Germanium  can  be  etched  in  many  aqueous  electrolytes.  A  valence  of 
almost  exactly  4  is  found.  That  is,  4  electrons  flow  through  the  circuit 
for  each  atom  of  germanium  removed.  For  accurate  valence  measure- 
ments, it  is  advisable  to  exclude  oxygen  by  using  a  nitrogen  atmosphere. 
Potassium  hydroxide,  indium  sulfate,  and  sodium  chloride  solutions  are 
among  those  that  have  been  used.  Sulfuric  acid  solutions  are  prone  to 

)  yield  an  orange-red  deposit  which  may  be  a  suboxide  of  germanium/* 

I  Similar  orange  deposits  are  infrequently  encountered  with  potassium 

I  hydroxide. 

Hydrochloric  acid  solutions  are  satisfactoiy  electrolytes.  The  reaction 

I  product  is  removed  in  an  unusual  manner  when  the  electrolyte  is  about 
2N  hydrochloric  acid.  Small  droplets  of  a  clear  liquid  fall  from  the  etched 
regions.  These  droplets  may  be  germanium  tetrachloride,  which  is  denser 
than  the  electrolyte.  They  turn  brown  after  a  few  seconds,  perhaps  be- 
cause of  hydrolysis  of  the  tetrachloride. 

Etching  of  germanium  in  sixteen  different  aqueous  electroplating 
electrolytes  has  been  mentioned.  Germanium  can  also  be  etched  in  the 
partly  organic  electrolytes  described  below  for  silicon. 

One  would  expect  that  silicon  could  be  etched  by  making  it  the  anode 
in  a  cell  with  an  aqueous  hydrofluoric  acid  electrolyte.  The  seemingly 


346  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956  | 

) 

likely  oxidation  product,  silicon  dioxide,  should  react  with  the  hydro-! 
fluoric  acid  to  give  silicon  tetrafluoride,  which  could  escape  as  a  gas.  In 
fact,  a  gas  is  formed  at  the  anode  and  the  silicon  loses  weight.  But  the 
gas  is  hydrogen  and  an  effective  valence  of  2.0  ±  0.2  (individual  deter- 
minations ranged  from  1.3  to  2.7)  was  found  instead  of  the  value  4  that  i 
might  have  been  expected.  The  quantity  of  hydrogen  evolved  is  con- 
sistent with  the  formal  reaction 


Si  —>  Si"*"'"  +  me  (electrochemical  oxidation) 

Si+™  +  (4-to)H+  -^  Si+'  +  Vz  (4-m)H2  (chemical  oxidation) 


where  m  is  about  two.  The  experiments  were  done  in  24  per  cent  to  48 
per  cent  aqueous  solutions  of  HF  at  current  densities  up  to  0.5  amp/cm^. 

The  suggestion  that  the  electrochemical  oxidation  precedes  the  chemi- 
cal oxidation  is  supported  by  the  appearance  and  behavior  of  the  etched 
surfaces.  Instead  of  being  shiny,  the  surfaces  have  a  matte  black,  brown, 
or  red  deposit. 

At  40 X  magnification,  the  deposit  appears  to  consist  of  flakes  of  a; 
resinous  material,  tentatively  supposed  to  be  a  silicon  suboxide.  A  re- 
markable reaction  can  be  demonstrated  if  the  silicon  is  rinsed  briefly  in 
water  and  alcohol  after  the  electrolytic  etch,  dried,  and  stored  in  air  for 
as  long  as  a  year.  Upon  reimmersing  this  silicon  in  water,  one  can  observe 
the  liberation  of  gas  bubbles  at  its  surface.  This  gas  is  presumed  to  be 
hydrogen.  To  initiate  the  reaction  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  dip  the 
specimen  first  in  alcohol,  as  water  may  otherwise  not  wet  it.  The  speci- 
mens also  liberate  hydrogen  from  alcohol  and  even  from  toluene. 

Thus,    chemical    oxidation    can   follow   electrolytic    oxidation.   But 
chemical  oxidation  does  not  proceed  at  a  significant  rate  before  thei 
current  is  turned  on. 

Smooth,  shiny  electrolytic  etching  of  p-type  silicon  has  been  obtained; 
with  mixtures  of  hydrofluoric  acid  and  organic  hydroxyl  compounds,; 
such  as  alcohols,  glycols,  and  glycerine.  These  mixtures  may  be  an- 
hydrous or  may  contain  as  much  as  90  per  cent  water.  The  organic 
additives  tend  to  minimize  the  chemical  oxidation  of  the  silicon.  They; 
also  permit  etching  at  temperatures  below  the  freezing  point  of  aqueous 
solutions.  They  lower  the  conductivity  of  the  electrolyte. 

For  a  given  electrolyte  composition,  there  is  a  threshold  current 
density,  usually  between  0.01  and  0.1  amps/cm  ,  for  smooth  etching.; 
Lower  current  densities  give  black  or  red  surfaces  with  the  same  hy- 
drogen-liberating capabilities  as  those  obtained  in  aqueous  hydrofluoric 
acid. 


ELECTROLYTIC   SHAPING   OF   GERMANIUM   AND   SILICON  347 

In  general,  smooth  etching  of  siHcon  seems  to  result  when  the  effective 
valence  is  nearly  4  and  there  is  little  anodic  evolution  of  gas.  The  elec- 
I  trical  properties  of  the  smooth  surface  appear  to  be  equivalent  to  those 
!  of  smooth  silicon  surfaces  produced  by  chemical  etching  in  mixtures  of 
i  nitric  and  hydrofluoric  acids.  On  the  other  hand,  the  reactive  surface 
[produced  at  a  valence  of  about  2,  with  anodic  hydrogen  evolution,  is 
I  capable  of  practically  shorting-out  a  silicon  p-n  junction.  The  electrical 
j  properties  of  this  surface  tend  to  change  upon  standing  in  air. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

Most  of  the  experiments  mentioned  in  this  paper  were  carried  out  by 
my  wife,  Ingeborg.  An  exception  is  the  double-dimpling  of  germanium 
by  light,  which  was  done  by  T.  C.  Hall.  The  dimpling  procedures  of 
Figs.  9  and  10  are  based  on  suggestions  by  J.  M.  Early.  The  effect  of 
light  upon  electrolytic  etching  was  called  to  my  attention  by  0.  Loosme. 
W.  G.  Pfann  provided  the  germanium  crystals  grown  with  different 
degrees  of  stirring. 

REFERENCES 

1.  J.  F.  Barry,  I.R.E.-A.I.E.E.  Semiconductor  Device  Research  Conference, 

Philadelphia,  June,  1955. 

2.  A.  Uhlir,  Jr.,  Rev.  Sci.  Inst.,  26,  pp.  965-968,  1955. 

3.  W.  E.  Bailey,  U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,416,  929,  May  23,  1922. 

4.  Bradley,  et  al.  Proc.  I.R.E.,  24,  pp.  1702-1720,  1953. 

5.  M.  V.  Sullivan  and  J.  H.  Eigler,  to  be  published. 

6.  S.  L.  Miller,  Phys.  Rev.  99,  p.  1234,  1955. 

7.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  C.  G.  B.  Garrett,  B.S.T.J.,  34,  pp.  129-176,  1955. 

8.  E.  H.  Borneman,  R.  F.  Schwarz,  and  J.  J.  Stickler,  J.  Appl.  Phvs.,  26,   pp. 

1021-1029,  1955. 

9.  D.  R.  Turner,  to  be  submitted  to  the  Journal  of  the  Electrochemical  Society. 

10.  R.  D.  Heidenreich,  U.  S.  Patent  No.  2,619,414,  Nov.  25,  1952. 

11.  T.  S.  Moss,  L.  Pincherle,  A.  M.  Woodward,  Proc.  Phys.  Soc.  London,  66B, 

p.  743,  1953. 

12.  T.  M.  Buck  and  F.  S.  McKim,  Cincinnati  Meeting  of  the  Electrochemical 

Society,  Mav,  1955. 

13.  F.  L.  Vogel,  W.  G.  Pfann,  H.  E.  Corey,  and  E.  E.  Thomas,  Phys.  Rev.,  90, 

p.  489,  1953. 

14.  S.  G.  Ellis,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  1140-1141,  1955. 

15.  Electronics,  27,  No.  5,  p.  194,  May,  1954. 

16.  F.  Jirsa,  Z.  f.  Anorg.  u.  AUgemeine  Chem.,  Bd.  268,  p.  84,  1952. 


\ 


A  Large  Signal  Theory  of  Traveling 
Wave  Amplifiers 

Including  the  Effects  of  Space  Charge  and  Finite 
Coupling  Between  the  Beam  and  the  Circuit 

By  PING  KING  TIEN 

Manuscript  received  October  11,  1955) 

The  non-linear  behavior  of  the  traveling-wave  amplifier  is  calculated  in 
this  paper  by  numericalhj  integrating  the  motion  of  the  electrons  in  the 
presence  of  the  circuit  and  the  space  charge  fields.  The  calculation  extends 
the  earlier  work  by  Nordsieck  and  the  srnall-C  theory  by  Tien,  Walker  and 
Wolontis,  to  include  the  space  charge  repulsion  between  the  electrons  and 
the  effect  of  a  finite  coupling  between  the  circuit  and  the  electron  beam.  It 
however  differs  from  Poulter's  and  Rowers  works  in  the  methods  of  calcu- 
lating the  space  charge  and  the  effect  of  the  backward  wave. 

The  numerical  work  was  done  using  701 -type  I.B.M.  equipment.  Re- 
sults of  calcidation  covering  QC  from  0.1  to  0.4,  b  from  0.46  to  2.56  and  k 
from  1.25  to  2.50,  indicate  that  the  saturation  efficiency  varies  between 
23  per  cent  and  37  per  cent  for  C  equal  to  0.1  and  between  33  per  cent  and 
Jf.0  per  cent  for  C  equal  to  0.15.  The  voltage  and  the  phase  of  the  circuit  wave, 
the  velocity  spread  of  the  electrons  and  the  fundamental  component  of  the 
charge-density  modidation  are  either  tabulated  or  presented  in  curves.  A 
method  of  calculating  the  backward  wave  is  provided  and  its  effect  fully 
discussed. 

1.   INTRODUCTION 

Theoretical  evaluation  of  the  maximum  efficiency  attainable  in  a 
traveling-wave  amplifier  requires  an  understanding  of  the  non-linear 
behavior  of  the  device  at  various  working  conditions.  The  problem  has 
been  approached  in  many  ways.  Pierce/  and  later  Hess,^  and  Birdsalf 
and  Caldwell  investigated  the  efficiency  or  the  output  power,  using  cer- 
tain specific  assumptions  about  the  highly  bunched  electron  beam.  They 
either  assume  a  beam  in  the  form  of  short  pulses  of  electrons,  or,  specify 

349 


350  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

an  optimum  ratio  of  the  fundamental  component  of  convection  current 
to  the  average  or  d-c  current.  The  method,  although  an  abstract  one, 
generally  gives  the  right  order  of  the  magnitude.  When  the  usual  wave 
concept  fails  for  a  beam  in  which  overtaking  of  the  electrons  arises,  we 
may  either  overlook  effects  from  overtaking,  or,  using  the  Boltzman's 
transport  equation  search  for  solutions  in  series  form.  This  attack  has 
been  pursued  by  Parzen  and  Kiel,  although  their  work  is  far  from  com- 
plete. The  most  satisfying  approach  to  date  is  Nordsieck's  analysis.' 
Nordsieck  followed  a  typical  set  of  "electrons"  and  calculated  their 
velocities  and  positions  by  numerically  integrating  a  set  of  equations  of 
motion.  Poulter  has  extended  Nordsieck  equations  to  include  space 
charge,  finite  C  and  circuit  loss,  although  he  has  not  perfectly  taken  into 
account  the  space  charge  and  the  backward  wave.  Recently  Tien, 
Walker,  and  Wolontis  have  published  a  small  C  theory  in  which  "elec- 
trons" are  considered  in  the  form  of  uniformly  charged  discs  and  the 
space  charge  field  is  calculated  by  computing  the  force  exerted  on  one 
disc  by  the  others.  Results  extended  to  finite  C,  have  been  reported  by 
Rowe,^*^  and  also  by  Tien  and  Walker.^^  Rowe,  using  a  space  charge 
expression  similar  to  Poulter's,  computed  the  space  charge  field  based  on 
the  electron  distribution  in  time  instead  of  the  distribution  in  space.  This 
may  lead  to  appreciable  error  in  his  space  charge  term,  although  its 
influence  on  the  final  results  cannot  be  easily  evaluated. 

In  the  present  analysis,  we  shall  adopt  the  model  described  by  Tien, 
Walker  and  Wolontis,  but  wish  to  add  to  it  the  effect  of  a  finite  beam  to 
circuit  coupling.  A  space  charge  expression  is  derived  taking  into  account 
the  fact  that  the  a-c  velocities  of  the  electrons  are  no  longer  small  com- 
pared with  the  average  velocity.  Equations  are  rewritten  to  retain  terms 
involving  C.  As  the  backward  wave  becomes  appreciable  when  C  in- 
creases, a  method  of  calculating  the  backward  wave  is  provided  and  the 
effect  of  the  backward  wave  is  studied.  Finally,  results  of  the  calculation 
covering  useful  ranges  of  design  and  operating  parameters  are  presented 
and  analyzed. 

2.   ASSUMPTIONS 

To  recapitulate,  the  major  assumptions  which  we  have  made  are: 

1.  The  problem  is  considered  to  be  one  dimensional,  in  the  sense  that 
the  transverse  motions  of  the  electrons  are  prohibited,  and  the  current, 
velocity,  and  fields,  are  functions  only  of  the  distance  along  the  tube  and 
of  the  time. 

2.  Only  the  fundamental  component  of  the  current  excites  waves  on 
the  circuit. 


A   LARGE    SIGNAL   THEORY    OF   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       351 

3.  The  space  charge  field  is  computed  from  a  model  in  which  the 
helix  is  replaced  by  a  conducting  cylinder,  and  electrons  are  uniformly 
charged  discs.  The  discs  are  infinitely  thin,  concentric  with  the  helix  and 
have  a  radius  equal  to  the  beam  radius. 

4.  The  circuit  is  lossfree. 

These  are  just  the  assumptions  of  the  Tien-Walker-Wolontis  model. 
In  addition,  we  shall  assume  a  small  signal  applied  at  the  input  end  of  a 
long  tube,  where  the  beam  entered  unmodulated.  What  we  are  looking 
for  are  therefore  the  characteristics  of  the  tube  beyond  the  point  at  which 
the  device  begins  to  act  non-linearly.  Let  us  imagine  a  flow  of  electron 
discs.  The  motions  of  the  discs  are  computed  from  the  circuit  and  the 
space  charge  fields  by  the  familiar  Newton's  force  equation.  The  elec- 
trons, in  turn,  excite  waves  on  the  circuit  according  to  the  circuit  equa- 
tion derived  either  from  Brillouin's  model^  or  from  Pierce's  equivalent 
circuit.  The  force  equation,  the  circuit  equation,  and  the  equation  of 
conservation  of  charge  in  kinematics,  are  the  three  basic  equations 
from  which  the  theory  is  derived. 

3.   FORWARD   AND   BACKWARD   WAVES 

In  the  traveling-wave  amplifier,  the  beam  excites  forward  and  back- 
ward waves  on  the  circuit.  (We  mean  by  "forward"  wave,  the  wave 
which  propagates  in  the  direction  of  the  electron  flow,  and  by  "back- 
ward" wave,  the  wave  which  propagates  in  the  opposite  direction.) 
Because  of  phase  cancellation,  the  energy  associated  with  the  backward 
wave  is  small,  but  increases  with  the  beam  to  circuit  coupling.  It  is  there- 
fore important  to  compute  it  accurately.  In  the  first  place,  the  waves  on 
the  circuit  must  satisfy  the  circuit  equation 

dH^(z,t)  2d'V{z,t)  „    d'p^iz,   t)  ,v 

Here,  V  is  the  total  voltage  of  the  waves.  Vo  and  Zo  are  respectively  the 
phase  velocity  and  the  impedance  of  the  cold  circuit,  z  is  the  distance 
along  the  tube  and  t,  the  time,  p^  is  the  fundamental  component  of  the 
linear  charge  density.  V  and  p„  are  functions  of  z  and  /.  The  complete 
solution  of  (1)  is  in  the  form 

Viz)  =  Cre'^''  +  (726  "^"^ 

+  e         —-y—  J    e  "  po,{^)  dz  ^2) 

+  e  "   —^  j     e       p^{z)  dz 


352  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

where  the  common  factor  e^"'  is  omitted.  To  =  j{co/vo),  j  =  \/—  1  and  w 
is  the  angular  frequency.  Ci  and  C2  are  arbitrary  constants  which  will 
be  determined  by  the  boundary  conditions  at  the  both  ends  of  the  beam. 
The  first  two  terms  are  the  solutions  of  the  homogeneous  equation  (or 
the  complementary  functions)  and  are  just  the  cold  circuit  waves.  The 
third  and  the  fourth  terms  are  functions  of  electron  charge  density  and 
are  the  particular  solution  of  the  equation. 

Let  us  consider  a  long  traveling-wave  tube  in  which  the  beam  starts 
from  z  =  0  and  ends  at  2;  =  D.  The  motion  of  electrons  observed  at  any 
particular  position  is  periodic  in  time,  though  it  varies  from  point  to 
point  along  the  beam.  To  simplify  the  picture,  we  may  divide  the  beam 
along  the  tube  into  small  sections  and  consider  each  of  them  as  a  current 
element  uniform  in  z  and  periodic  in  time.  Each  section  of  beam,  or  each 
current  element  excites  on  the  circuit  a  pair  of  waves  equal  in  ampli- 
tudes, one  propagating  toward  the  right  (i.e.,  forward)  and  the  other, 
toward  the  left.  One  may  in  fact  imagine  that  these  are  trains  of  waves 
supported  by  the  periodic  motion  of  the  electrons  in  that  section  of  the 
beam.  Obviously,  a  superposition  of  these  waves  excited  by  the  whole 
beam  gives  the  actual  electromagnetic  field  distribution  on  the  circuit. 
One  may  thus  compute  the  forward  traveling  wave  at  z  by  summing  all 
the  waves  at  z  which  come  from  the  left.  Stated  more  specifically,  the 
forward  traveling  energy  at  z  is  contributed  by  the  waves  excited  by  the 
current  elements  at  the  left  of  the  point  z.  Similarly  the  backward  travel- 
ing energy,  (or  the  backward  wave)  at  z  is  contributed  by  the  waves 
excited  by  the  current  elements  at  the  right  of  the  point  z.  It  follows 
obviously  from  this  picture  that  there  is  no  forward  wave  at  2  =  0 
(except  one  corresponding  to  the  input  signal),  and  no  backward  wave 
at  2  =  D.  (This  implies  that  the  output  circuit  is  matched.)  With  these 
boundary  conditions,  (1)  is  reduced  to 


z)  =  Finput  e     "    +  e     °   — -—  /     e  "  po,{z) 

Z      Jo 


dz 


+  /-^J  e-%.(.) 


(3) 


dz 


Equations  (2)  and  (3)  have  been  obtained  by  Poulter.^  The  first  term  of 
(3)  is  the  wave  induced  by  the  input  signal.  It  propagates  as  though  the  ; 
beam  were  not  present.  The  second  term  is  the  voltage  at  z  contributed 
by  the  charges  between  2  =  0  and  2  =  2.  It  is  just  the  voltage  of  the 
forward  wave  described  earlier.  Similarly  the  third  term  which  is  the 
voltage  at  2  contributed  by  the  charges  between  z  =  z  and  2  =  D  is  the 
voltage  of  the  backward  wave  at  the  point  2.  Denote  F  and  B  respec- 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY    OF    TRAVELING-WAVE    AMPLIFIERS       353 

tively  the  voltages  of  the  forward  and  the  backward  waves,  we  have 
F{z)  =  Fi„put  e-'"^  +  e-^»^  ^«  r  e'^'  p^z)  dz  (4) 

Z         Jo 

Biz)  =  e^-  ^°  £  e-^-p„(e)  dz  (5) 

It  can  be  shown  by  direct  substitution  that  F  and  B  satisfy  respectively 
the  differential  equations 


dz              Vo        dt               2         (9^ 

(6) 

dB(z,  t)      1  a5(2,  0         Zo  ap„(2, 0 

(92              1^0        di                    2         dt 

(7) 

We  put  (4)  and  (5)  in  the  form  of  (6)  and  (7)  simply  because  the  differ- 
ential equations  are  easier  to  manipulate  than  the  integral  equations. 
In  fact,  we  should  start  the  analysis  from  (6)  and  (7)  if  it  were  not  for  a 
physical  picture  useful  to  the  understanding  of  the  problem.  Equations 
(6)  and  (7)  have  the  advantage  of  not  being  restricted  by  the  boundary 
conditions  at  2;  =  0  and  D,  which  we  have  just  imposed  to  derive  (4) 
and  (5).  Actually,  we  can  derive  (6)  and  (7)  directly  from  the  Brillouin 
model  in  the  following  manner.  Suppose  Y,  I  and  Zo  are  respectively 
the  voltage,  current  and  the  characteristic  impedance  of  a  transmission 
line  system  in  the  usual  sense.  (V  +  /Zo)  must  then  be  the  forward  wave 
and  {V  —  IZo)  must  be  the  backward  wave.  If  we  substituted  F  and  B 
in  these  forms  into  (1)  of  the  Brillouin' s  paper,^^  we  should  obtain  exactly 
(6)  and  (7). 

It  is  obvious  that  the  first  and  third  terms  of  (2)  are  respectively  the 
complementary  function  and  the  particular  solution  of  (6),  and  similarly 
the  second  and  the  fourth  terms  of  (2)  are  respectively  the  comple- 
mentary function  and  the  particular  solution  of  (7).  From  now  on,  we 
shall  overlook  the  complementary  functions  which  are  far  from  syn- 
chronism with  the  beam  and  are  only  useful  in  matching  the  boundary 
conditions.  It  is  the  particular  solutions  which  act  directly  on  the  elec- 
tron motion.  With  these  in  mind,  it  is  convenient  to  put  F  and  B  in  the 
form 

Fiz,  t)  =  -j~  [aiiij)  cos  <p  -  aiiy)  sin  ^]  (8) 

B{z,  t)  =  -^  [hiiy)  cos  ip  -  h^iy)  sin  9?]  (9) 


354  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

where  ai(y),  02(2/),  hi(y)  and  62(2/)  are  functions  of  y.  y  and  <p  are  inde- 
pendent variables  and  have  been  used  by  Nordsieck  to  replace  the  vari- 
ables, z  and  t,  such  as 

y  =  C  —  Z 

(f   =   w  [  —    —    t  ] 

\Vo         / 

Here  as  defined  earlier,  I'o  is  the  phase  velocity  of  the  cold  circuit  and  Vq 
the  average  velocity  of  the  electrons.  They  are  related  by  the  parameter 
h  defined  by  Pierce  as 

Uo  1 


vo        (1  -  hC) 
C  is  the  gain  parameter  also  defined  by  Pierce, 

^3  _  ZqIo 

in  which,  Vo  and  7o  are  respectively  the  beam  voltage  and  current. 
Adding  (6)  to  (7),  we  obtain  an  important  relation  between  F  and  B, 
that  is, 

dFjz,  t)  _^  1_  dF{z,  t)  ^       dBjz,  t)  _j_  l_  dBjz,  t)  ^^Q^ 

dz  Vo        dt  dz  Vo        dt 

Substituting  (8)  and  (9)  into  (10)  and  carrying  out  some  algebraic 
manipulation,  we  obtain 

'"'^^  =  "2(1  +  bC)  I  ^'^^'>  +  "'-^"^^ 

(11) 

"'^^'^  =  2(1  +  bC)  ly  '"'^^^  +  '"^^^' 


or 


B{z,  t)  = 


ZqIo  C 

dMy)  +  bM)  ,„,  ^  +  diaM+  b.(,j))  ^.^    - 
dy  dy 


[ 


For  better  understanding  of  the  problem,  we  shall  first  solve  (12a)  ap- 
proximately. Assuming  for  the  moment  that  hiiy)  and  h^^y)  are  small 
compared  with  ai{ij)  and  a^iy)  and  may  be  neglected  in  the  right-hand 


A    LARGE    SIGNAL   THEORY   OP   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       355 


member  of  the  equation,  we  obtain  for  the  first  order  solution 


iKz,  t)  ^ 


ZqIo  I  (^ 


sin  <p  +  — ^^^  cos  <p 


40   \      2(1  +  bC)  I    dij  ^    '       dy 


(12b) 


Of  course,  the  solution  (12b)  is  justified  only  when  hi(y)  and  ?)2(?y)  thus 
obtained  are  small  compared  with  ai(y)  and  aoiy).  The  exact  solution 
of  B  obtained  by  successive  approximation  reads 


Biz,  t) 

+ 


ZqIo  I  c 


4(7  V     2(1  +  bC) 


4(1  +  hC) 
It  may  be  seen  that  the  term  involving 


dai(y)    .  ,   da2(ij) 

-^  sm  <p  +      ,       cos 
_    dy  dy 

■ ] 


•] 


'^^'  cos<p  +  — f^sm^     + 


(12c) 


dy-  dy- 


4(1  +  bcy 

and  the  higher  order  terms  are  neglected  in  our  approximate  solution. 
For  C  equal  to  few  tenths,  the  difference  between  (r2b)  and  (12c)  only 
amounts  to  few  per  cent.  We  thus  can  calculate  the  backward  wave  by 
(12b)  or  (12c)  from  the  derivatives  of  the  forward  wave.  To  obtain  the 
complete  solution  of  the  backward  wave,  we  should  add  to  (12b)  or 
(12c)  a  solution  of  the  homogeneous  equation.  We  shall  return  to  this 
point  later. 

4.  WORKING   EQUATIONS 

With  this  discussion  of  the  backward  wave,  we  are  now  in  a  position 
to  derive  the  working  equations  on  which  our  calculations  are  based.  In 
Nordsieck's  notation,  each  electron  is  identified  by  its  initial  phase. 
Thus,  (p(y,  (fo)  and  Cuow(y,  <po)  are  respectively  the  phase  and  the  ac 
velocity  of  the  electron  which  has  an  initial  phase  (fo  .  It  should  be  remem- 
bered that  y  is  equal  to 

and  is  used  by  Nordsieck  as  an  independent  variable  to  replace  the  vari- 
al)le  z.  Let  us  consider  an  electron  which  is  at  Zo  when  /,  =  0  and  is  at 
z  (or  ?/)  when  t  =  /.  Its  initial  phase  is  then 

OiZo 

<Po  =  — 


356 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


and  its  phase  at  y  is 


<p(y,<po)  =  oj  f-  -  tj 


i 


The  velocity  of  the  electron  is  expressed  as 

dz 


dt 


=  Wo[l  +  Cw{ij,  ip^)] 


where  Uo  is  the  average  velocity  of  the  electrons,  and,  Cuow(y,  tpo)  as  men- 
tioned earlier,  is  the  ac  velocity  of  the  electron  when  it  is  at  the  position 
y.  The  electron  charge  density  near  an  electron  which  has  an  initial  phase 
cpo  and  which  is  now  at  y,  can  be  computed  by  the  equation  of  conserva- 


tion of  charge,    it  is 


p(y,  <Po)  =  - 


Wo 


d(po 


d(p{y,  <po) 


1 


1  +  Cw(y,  ifo) 


(13) 


One  should  recall  here  that  h  is  the  dc  beam  current  and  has  been  de- 
fined as  a  positive  quantity.  When  several  electrons  with  different  initial 
phases  are  present  at  y  simultaneously,  a  summation  of 

d<po 


of  these  electrons  should  be  used  in  (13).  From  (13),  the  fundamental 
component  of  the  electron  charge  density  is 


pMt)  =  --- 


sm 


d<po 


sin  (fiy,  <po) 
1  +  Cw{y,  <pq) 

r^"   ,        cos  <p{y,  <po) 
+  cos  <p  I      d(po 
Jo 


(14) 


1  +  Cw(y,  ifo)/ 

These  are  important  relations  given  by  Nordsieck  and  should  be  kept 
in  mind  in  connection  with  later  work.  In  addition,  we  shall  frequently 
use  the  transformation 

I  =  t  s  =  ^"(' +  ^'"(^-»  1^ 

which  is  written  following  the  motion  of  the  electron.  Let  us  start  from 
the  forward  wave.  It  is  computed  by  means  of  (6).  After  substituting 
(8)  and  (14)  into  (6),  we  obtain  by  equating  the  sin  <p  and  the  cos  v' 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY   OF   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       357 

terms 

dax{y)  ^  _2    T^"  ^        sin  <p(y,  cpo)  .^. 

dy  IT  h  "  1  +  Cwiv,  (po) 

da.Xy)  2   f^"  cos<p{y,<po)  ..^n 

— 1 —  =   ~-  /      d(po  , r  (.lb; 

dy  IT  Jo  1  +  Cw{y,  <po) 

Next  we  shall  calculate  the  electron  motion.  We  express  the  acceleration 
of  an  electron  in  the  form 

d'z        „      /I    I    /o    /        ^^  dw{y,  <po) 
^  =  Cuod  +  Cw{y,  M  -^^ 

and  calculate  the  circuit  field  by  differentiating  F  in  (8)  and  B  in  (12c) 
with  respect  to  z.  One  thus  obtains  from  Newton's  law 

2[1  +  Cw{y,  <po)]  ^^'^J'  ^°^  =  (1  +  hOMy)  sin  <p  +  a,{y)  cos  <p\ 

dy 

+  ^-^  r^  «in  ^  +  ^^  cos  J  -  -^  ^. 
4(1  +  6C)  L    ^Z/-  c?^^  J       WomwC^ 

Here  Eg  is  the  space  charge  field,  which  will  be  discussed  in  detail  later. 
Finally  a  relation  between  w{y,  (po)  and  <p{y,  ^o)  is  obtained  by  means  of 
(13) 

difiy,  <po)  _  ^  ^        ^^(y,  <Po)  QgN 

dy  1  +  Cw{y,  <pq) 

Equations  (15),  (16),  (17)  and  (18)  are  the  four  working  equations 
which  we  have  derived  for  finite  C  and  including  space  charge. 

Instead  of  writing  the  equations  in  the  above  form,  Rowe,  ignoring 
the  backward  wave,  derives  (15)  and  (16)  directly  from  the  circuit 
equation  (1).  He  obtains  an  additional  term 

C  d^tti 


2  dy"" 


for  (15)  and  another  term 


C  d"ai 

2df 

for  (16).  It  is  apparent  that  the  backward  wave,  though  generally  a 
small  quantity,  does  influence  the  terms  involving  C. 


358 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


5.   THE   SPACE   CHARGE   EXPRESSION 


We  have  mentioned  earlier  that  the  space  charge  field  is  computed 
from  the  disc-model  suggested  by  Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis.  In  their 
calculation,  the  force  excited  on  one  disc  by  the  other  is  approximated 
by  an  exponential  function 


F.  = 


—  [a(z'— z)/ro] 


27rro-eo 


Here  ro  is  the  radius  of  the  disc  or  the  beam,  q  is  the  charge  carried  by 
each  disc,  and  eo  is  the  dielectric  constant  of  the  medium.  The  discs  are 
supposed  to  be  respectively  at  z  and  z  .  a  is  a  constant  and  is  taken 
equal  to  2. 

Consider  two  electrons  which  have  their  initial  phases  <pq  and  ^o  and 
which  reach  the  position  ij  (or  z)  at  times  t  and  t'  respectively.  The  time 
difference, 


*  -  /  =  1 

00 


wt    —    —  Z   —   [bit     —   —  Z) 

Vo  \  Vq        J 


CO 


multiplied  by  the  velocity  of  the  electron  i<o[l  +  Cw(y,  (po  )]  is  obviously 
the  distance  between  the  two  electrons  at  the  time  t.  Thus 

(z    -  z)t=t  =  -  y(y,  <Po)  -  <p(y,  <Po)]uo[l  +  Cw(y,ipo)]       (19a) 

In  this  equation,  we  are  actually  taking  the  first  term  of  the  Taylor's 
expansion, 


(z    —  z)t=t  = 


dzjij,  cpo) 
dt 


t=t 


(t  _  /^  j_  ^  c?^2(y,  <pq) 


it  -  ty 


t=t 


(19b) 


+ 


It  is  clear  that  the  electrons  at  y  may  have  widely  different  velocities 
after  having  traveled  a  long  distance  from  the  input  end,  but  changes  in 
their  velocities,  in  the  vicinity  of  y  and  in  a  time-period  of  around  2  tt, 
are  relatively  small.  This  is  why  we  must  keep  the  first  term  of  (19b) 
and  may  neglect  the  higher  order  terms.  From  (19a)  the  space  charge 
field  Es  in  (17)  is 


2e 


Es  = 


/+00 


-k]ip(.y  ,<po+<t>)—<p(.U  ,<Po)  1  li+Cw(y,(po+<t>)] 


d(f>  sgn  (<p(<po  -\-  <p)  -  <t>iy,  <po)) 
Here,  e/m  is  the  ratio  of  electron  charge  to  mass,  cop  is  the  electron 


A    LARGE    SIGNAL   THEORY    OF   TRAVELING-WAVE    AMPLIFIERS       359 

angular  plasma  frequency  for  a  beam  of  infinite  extent,  and  k  is 

2 


k  = 


a 

0)  CO 

—  ro  —  ro 

Uo  Wo 


(20) 


In  the  small  C  theory,  th^e  distribution  of  electrons  in  time  or  in  time- 
phase  at  z  is  approximately  the  same  as  the  distribution  in  z  (also  ex- 
pressed in  the  unit  of  time-phase)  at  the  vicinity  of  z.  This  is,  however, 
not  true  when  C  becomes  finite.  The  difference  between  the  time  and 
space  distributions  is  the  difference  between  unity  and  the  factor 
(1  -}-  Cw{y,  <po )).  We  can  show  later  that  the  error  involved  in  con- 
;  sidering  the  time  phase  as  the  space  phase  can  easily  reach  50  per  cent 
or  more,  depending  on  the  velocity  spread  of  the  electrons. 


6.  NUMERICAL   CALCULATIONS 

Although  the  process  of  carrying  out  numerical  computations  has 
been  discussed  in  Nordsieck's  paper,  it  is  desirable  to  recapitulate  here 
I  a  few  essential  points  including  the  new  feature  added.  Using  the  work- 
ing equations  (15),  (16),  (17)  and  (18), 

dai    da 2    dw  ,         dcp 

dy  '  dy  '  dy  dy 

\  are  calculable  from  ai ,  a^ ,  w  and  <p.  The  distance  is  divided  into  equal 
I  intervals  of  A?/,  and  the  forward  integrations  of  Oi ,  ao  ,  w  and  (p  are  per- 
f  formed  by  a  central  difference  formula 


ax{y  +  A?/)  =  ax{y)  -f 


dy 


y+y2&y 


■Ay 


In  addition. 


d^ai 
dy^ 


and 


d  02 

df 


in  (17)  are  computed  from  the  second  difference  formula  such  that 
d''ai 


-  At/ 


_     dtti  da\ 

dy^      j/=j/  \_dy       y+l/2i,y  dy      y-^/2^y_ 

We  thus  calculate  the  behavior  along  the  tube  by  forward  integration 
j  made  in  steps  of  Ay,  starting  from  y  =  0.  At  ?/  =  0  the  initial  condi- 
tions are  determined  from  Pierce's  linearized  theory.  Because  of  its 
complications  in  notation,  this  will  be  discussed  in  detail  in  Appendix  I. 
j     Numerical  calculations  were  carried  out  using  the  701-type  I.B.M. 


Table  I 


a; 
U 

QC 

k 

c 

6 

Ml 

MJ 

ycsAT.) 

<! 
01! 

H 
•i 

i 

a. 
1 

1 

0.1 

2.5 

0.05 

0.455 

m  max. 
0.795662 

-0.748052 

5.6 

1.26 

0.415 

2 

0.1 

2.5 

0.1 

0.541 

Ml  max. 
0.827175 

-0.787624 

5.2 

1.24 

0.482 

3 

0.1 

2.5 

0.1 

1.145 

0.941;ui  max. 
0.778535 

-1.05370 

5.6 

1.31 

0.820 

4 

0.1 

2.5 

0.1 

1.851 

0.66jui  max. 
0.550736 

-1.37968 

7.0 

1.36 

1.05 

J 

5 

0.1 

2.5 

0.2 

0.720 

m  max. 
0.900312 

-0.873606 

4.8 

1.02 

0.726 

6 

0.2 

1.25 

0.1 

0.875 

jui  max. 
0.769795 

-1.04078 

5.9 

1.22 

0.570 

7 

0.2 

1.25 

0.1 

1.422 

0.951^1  max. 
0.724527 

-1.29469 

6.0 

1.30 

0.803 

8 

0.2 

1.25 

0.1 

2.072 

0.666mi  max. 
0.512528 

-1.60435 

7.6 

1.35 

1.08 

9 

0.2 

2.5 

0.05 

0.765 

Ml  max. 
0.731493 

-0.973376 

6.2 

1.30 

0.412 

10 

0.2 

2.5 

0.1 

0.875 

Ml  max. 
0.769795 

-1.04078 

5.8 

1.22 

0.490 

11 

0.2 

2.5 

0.1 

1.422 

0.941mi  max. 
0.724527 

-1.29469 

6.0 

1.26 

0.720 

12 

0.2 

2.5 

0.1 

2.072 

0.666mi  max. 
0.512528 

-1.60435 

7.2 

1.25 

0.92 

13 

0.2 

2.5 

0.1 

2.401 

0.300mi  max. 
0.230930 

-1.76243 

12.4 

1.24 

1.36 

j 

U 

0.2 

2.5 

0.15 

0.976 

Ml  max. 
0.812900 

-1.10656 

5.4 

1.11 

0.572 

15 

0.2 

2.5 

0.15 

1.549 

0.941mi  max. 
0.765101 

-1.37540 

5.8 

1.14 

1.03 

16 

0.2 

2.5 

0.15 

2.2311 

0.666mi  max. 
0.541234 

-1.70180 

7.0 

1.12 

1.22 

17 

0.2 

2.5 

0.15 

2.575 

0.300mi  max. 
0.243864 

-1.86844 

10.8 

1.04 

1.34 

18 

0.4 

2.5 

0.05 

1.25 

Ml  max. 
0.653014 

-1.36746 

7.6 

1.26 

0.315 

19 

0.4 

2.5 

0.1 

1.38 

Ml  max. 
0.701470 

-1.47477 

6.6 

1.11 

0.674 

20 

0.4 

2.5 

0.1 

1.874 

0.941mi  max. 
0.660223 

-1.71341 

7.8 

1.19 

1.05 

21 

0.4 

2.5 

0.1 

2.458 

0.666mi  max. 
0.467038 

-1.99840 

8.6 

1.09 

1.25 

l> 


360 


A    LARGE    SIGNAL   THEORY    OF   TRAVELING- WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       361 

equipment.  The  problem  was  programmed  by  Miss  D.  C.  Legaus.  The 
cases  computed  are  listed  in  Table  I  in  which  m  and  m2  are  respectively 
Pierce's  .xi  and  iji ,  and  A,(d  —  iny)  and  tj  at  saturation  will  be  discussed 
later.  All  the  cases  were  computed  with  A^  =  0.2  using  a  model  based 
on  24  electron  discs  per  electronic  wavelength.  To  estimate  the  error 
involved  in  the  numerical  work,  Case  (10)  has  been  repeated  for  48  elec- 
trons and  Cases  (10)  and  (19)  for  Ay  =  0.1.  The  results  obtained  by 
using  different  numbers  of  electrons  are  almost  identical  and  those  ob- 
tained by  varying  the  inter\'al  A//  indicate  a  difference  in  A  (y)  less  than 
1  per  cent  for  Case  (10)  and  about  6  per  cent  for  Case  (19).  As  error 
generally  increases  with  QC  and  C  the  cases  listed  in  this  paper  are 
limited  to  QC  =  0.4  and  C  =  0.15.  For  larger  QC  or  C,  a  model  of  more 
electrons  or  a  smaller  interval  of  integration,  or  both  should  be  used. 

7.    POWER   OUTPUT   AND    EFFICIENCY 

Define 

A(ij)  =  HVa,(yy  +  aM' 

-0(y)=i^n-'^-^  +  by  ^^^^ 

aiiy) 


We  have  then 


F{z,t)  =  ^A{y)  cos 


^  -^t-  e{y) 

Uo 


(22) 


The  power  carried  by  the  forward  wave  is  therefore 

2CA'hVo  (23) 


(f)      = 

\Z/o/  average 


and  the  efficiency  is 


Eff.  =  ?£^^  =  2CA'        or        ^  =  2CA'  (24) 

In  Table  I,  the  values  of  A(y),  6{y)  and  y  at  the  saturation  level  are 
listed  for  every  case  computed.  We  mean  by  the  saturation  level,  the 
distance  along  the  tube  or  the  value  of  y  at  which  the  voltage  of  the 
forward  wave  or  the  forward  traveling  power  reaches  its  first  peak. 
The  Eff./C  at  the  saturation  level  is  plotted  in  Fig.  1  versus  QC,  for 
k  =  2.5,  h  for  maximum  small-signal  gain  and  C  =  small,  0.05,  0.1,  0.15 
and  2.  It  is  also  plotted  versus  h  in  Fig.  2  for  QC  =  0.2,  k  =  2.5  and 
C  =  small,  0.1  and0.15,  and  in  Fig.  3  for  QC  =  0.2,  C  =  0.1  and  k  =  1.25 
and  2.50.  In  Fig.  2  the  dotted  curves  indicate  the  values  of  h  at  Avhich 


1 


362  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    195G 

4.5 


0.5 


Fig.  1  —  The  saturation  eff./C  versus  QC,  for  k  =  2.5,  h  for  maximum  small- 
signal  gain  and  C  =  small,  0.1,  0.15  and  0.2. 

ixx  =  Ml  (max),  0.94  jui(max),  0.67  iui(max)  and  0.3  /ii(niax),  respectively. 
It  is  seen  that  Eff./C  decreases  as  C  increases  particularly  when  h  is 
large.  It  is  almost  constant  between  k  =  1.25  and  2.50  and  decreases 
slowly  for  large  values  of  C  when  QC  increases. 

The  (Eff./C)  at  saturation  is  also  plotted  versus  QC  in  Fig.  4(a)  for 
small  C,  and  in  Fig.  4(b)  for  C  =  0.1.  It  should  be  noted  that  for  C  =  0.1 
the  values  of  Eff./C  fall  inside  a  very  narrow  region  say  between  2.5  to 
3.5,  whereas  for  small  C  they  vary  widely. 

8,  VELOCITY   SPREAD 

In  a  traveling-wave  amplifier,  when  electrons  are  decelerated  by  the 
circuit  field,  they  contribute  power  to  the  circuit,  and  when  electrons 
are  accelerated,  they  gain  kinetic  energy  at  the  expense  of  the  circuit 
power.  It  is  therefore  of  interest  to  plot  the  actual  velocities  of  the  fastest 
and  the  slowest  electrons  at  the  saturation  level  and  find  how  they  vary 
with  the  parameters  QC,  C,  b  and  k.  This  is  done  in  Fig.  5.  These  veloci- 
ties are  also  plotted  versus  y  for  Case  10  in  Fig.  6,  in  which,  the  A(y) 
curve  is  added  for  reference. 

9.  THE  BACKWARD  WAVE  AND  THE  FUNDAMENTAL  COMPONENT  OF  THE 
ELECTRON  CHARGE  DENSITY 

Our  calculation  of  efficiency  has  been  based  on  the  power  carried  by 
the  forward  wave  only.  One  may,  however,  ask  about  the  actual  power 


A    LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY   OF   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       363 


6.0 
5.5 

5.0 
4.5 
4.0 

3.5 

EFFI. 

C       3.0 
(SAT.) 

2.5 
2.0 
1  .5 
1.0 
0.5 


1 

QC  =  0.2 

1 

1 

A- — 

K=2.5 

\ 

SMALI " 

*^r^ 

\ 
1 

Sa 

y^ 

1 

1 

\ 

_/^ 

I 

Ji 

A 

1 

/^ 

\ 

1 
\ 

/ 

\ 

t 

\ 

/ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

/ 

\ 

\ 

X 

f 

\ 
( 
\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

^   ' 

\ 

\ 

C  =  0.1 

'\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

, 

lyj 

\ 

\ 

\ 

JT"^ 

\ 

\ 

V    C=0.15 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

>"1  = 

1 
AX) 

/"1=C 

K      1             1 
).94/Z.(MAX) 

.at^ 

/     1 

\^ 

/t/i  =  0.67//i(MAX) 

\ 

//,  =  0.3//i(MAX) 

0.5 


1.0 


1.5 

b 


2.0 


2.5 


3.0 


Fig.  2  —  The  saturation  eff./C  versus  fe,  for  k  =  2.5,  QC  =  0.2,  and  C  =  small, 
0.1  and  0.15.  The  dotted  curves  indicate  the  values  of  h  for  m  =  \,  0.94,  0.67,  and 
0.3  of  ;ui(max)  respectively. 

output  in  the  presence  of  the  backward  wave.  For  simphcity,  we  shall 
use  the  approximate  solution  (12b)  which  can  be  written  in  the  form 

B{z,  t)  ^  Real  Component  of 

ZqIq        c 


4C  2(1  +  hC) 


dax(y)Y  ^  (da,{y)\-  j^^-v,.-,y+j^\     (12d) 


with 


tan  ^  = 


dij 


(laiiyT 
dy    , 


dy 


dchiyY 
dy    , 


As  mentioned  earlier  that  the  complete  solution  of  (6)  is  obtained  by 
adding  to  (12b)  a  complementary  function  such  that 


-yu  1+  r  Qz 


ZqIq 


+ 


c 


4C  2(1  +  bC) 


dy:)  ^\dy  )  ' 


-hy+ji 


(25) 


364  THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


EFFI. 

c 

(SAT.)  3 


QC  =  o.2 
C  =  0.1 

J<_=K25. 

3- 

2.50 

0.6       0.8       1.0         1.2        1.4         1.6         1.8       2.0       2.2       2.4 

b 

Fig.  3  —  The  saturation  eff./C  versus  b,  for  QC  =  0.2  C  =  0.1  and  k  =  1.25 
and  2.50. 

If  the  output  circuit  is  matched  by  cold  measurements,  the  backward 
wave  must  be  zero  at  the  output  end,  z  =  D.  This  determines  Ci ,  that  is, 


„  ZqIq         c 

^1  =  ~^rPT 


or 


Cie 


jut+Toz 


4C  2(1  +  bC) 


ZqIq  C 


//dai(t/)Y        I    /da2{y)Y        ro(2+bc)D+ji 


dai{y)V  /da2{y)y 


4C  2(1  +  6C)    y   \    dy    )z=o       \    dy    Jz^d  (26) 

The  backward  wave  therefore  consists  of  two  components.  One  compo- 


o 

7 

(a) 

C  =  SMALL 

^- 

Ml  =  0.67 

/U,(MAX) 

D 

5 

^^;;:^ 

^^ 

EFFI. 
C       4 

/U,  =  0.94//i(MAX) 

^^^ 

1 



(SAT.)  ^ 
2 

■"Zr^AtlC^AX) 

" 

0 

(b) 

C  =  o.i 

=  0.94//,  (MAX) 

1 

Xj 

fea,^_^-VZi  =  0.67 /Z,  (MAX) 

>U,  =  /i|(MAX)- 

1       —===3 

^^^ 

0.1 


0.2 

QC 


0.3  0.4     0  0.1 


0.2 

QC 


0.3  0.4 


Fig.  4  —  The  saturation  eff./C  versus  QC  for  h  corresponding  jui  =  1,  0.94  and 
0.67  of  Mi(max),  (a)  for  C  =  small,  (b)  for  C  =  0.1. 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY   OF   TRAVELING- WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       365 


nent  is  coupled  to  the  beam  and  has  an  amplitude  equal  to 

Zolo         C 
IC  2(1  +  bC) 


VX^'Y  + 


K^y  / 


\dy) 


which  generally  grows  with  the  forward  wave.  It  thus  has  a  much  larger 
amplitude  at  the  output  end  than  at  the  input  end.  The  other  component 
is  a  wave  of  constant  amplitude,  which  travels  in  the  direction  opposite 
to  the  electron  flow  with  a  phase  velocity  equal  to  that  of  the  cold  cir- 
cuit. At  the  output  end,  2  =  Z),  both  components  have  the  same  ampli- 
tude but  are  opposite  in  sign.  One  thus  realizes  that  there  exists  a  re- 
flected wave  of  noticeable  amplitude,  in  the  form  of  (26),  even  though 
the  output  circuit  is  properly  matched  by  cold  measurements.  Under 
j  such  circumstances,  the  voltage  at  the  output  end  is  the  voltage  of  the 
forward  wave  and  the  power  output  is  the  power  carried  by  the  forward 
wave  only.  This  is  computed  in  (23). 
Since  (26)  is  a  cold  circuit  wave  it  may  be  eliminated  by  properly  ad- 


c[-w], 


■C[w], 


5.0 


4.5 


4.0 


3.5 


5  3.0 

2 

o 

9-  2.5 


1.5 


1.0 


0.5 


(a) 

; 

/ 

y 

/ 

/ 

( 

r' 

,.--- 

( 

L"1 

.-'■ 

(b) 

j^ 

V 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

1 

Qw 

'"--^ 

^-"^ 

(c) 

J 

i 

/ 

/ 

^ 

/ 

/ 

,''^ 

1 

/        ( 

f 

r 

1 
1 
1 

1 

< 

f 

0.1  0.2         0.3       0.4    0.5         1.0 

QC 


1.5         2.0         2.5    0 
b 


0.05      0.10         0.15        0.20 


Fig.  5  —  Cw(y,  <po)  of  the  fast  and  the  slowest  electrons  at  the  saturation  level, 
(a)  versus  QC  for  k  =  2.5,  C  =  0.1  and  b  for  maximum  small-signal  gain;  (b)  versus 
6  for  A;  =  2.50,  C  =  0.1  and  QC  =  0.2;  and  (c)  versus  C  for  A-  =  2.50,  QC  =  0.2 
and  b  for  maximum  small-signal  gain. 


366  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1950 


3.5 


3.0 


2.5 


2.0 


9- 

^1.5 
U 

1.0 


0.5 


> 

r\ 

/ 

^ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

CASE  10 
QC  =  0.2 
C  =  0.1 
b  =  0.875 
k  =  2.5 

MAXC(-W)  / 

,-' 

''s 

\ 

\ 

/A(y) 

\ 
\ 

, 

1 

1 

/ 

/\ 

S 

// 

y 

/ 

X- 

./ 

,^ 

"^AXCW 

i 
/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

r 

■7 

/ 

/ 

A 

y 

^-' 

^ 

^ 

:z=^ 

—  **       — 

^ 

1.4 


1.2 


1.0 


0.8 


ID 
< 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


0 
0  0.5        1.0  1.5        2.0        2.5        3.0        3.5       4.0        4.5        5.0        5.5        6.0        6.5        7.0         7.5 

y 

Fig.  6  —  Cw{y,  (pa)  of  the  fast  and  the  slowest  electrons  versus  y  for  Case 
(10).  A{y)  is  also  plotted  in  dotted  lines  for  reference. 

justing  the  impedance  of  the  output  circuit.  This  may  be  necessary  in 
practice  for  the  purpose  of  avoiding  possible  regenerative  oscillation.  In 
doing  so,  the  voltage  at  2  =  D  is  the  sum  of  the  voltage  of  the  forward 
wave  and  that  of  the  particular  solution  of  the  backward  wave.  In  every 
case,  the  output  power  is  always  equal  to  the  square  of  the  net  voltage 
actually  at  the  output  end  divided  by  the  impedance  of  the  output  cir- 
cuit. 

We  find  from  (14),  (15)  and  (16)  that  the  fundamental  component  of 
electron  charge  density  may  be  written  as 

f     s.        \  h  (  .       dai{y)    .  da2(y)\ 


=  Real  component  of 


1/0 


dai{y) 
dy    , 


+ 


doM 
dy 


(26) 


jo)—Toz—by+Ji 


) 


where  —Io/uq  is  the  dc  electron  charge  density,  po  . 

If  (26)  is  compared  with  (12d)  or  (12c),  it  might  seem  surprising  that 
the  particular  solution  of  the  backward  wave  is  just  equal  to  the  funda- 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY   OF   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       367 


1.6 
t.5 
1.4 
1.3 
1.2 
1.1 
1.0 

Pq  0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 


1.2 
1.1 
1.0 
0.9 

Pq  0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 

0.1 

0 


CASES  2, 

10,19 

(a) 

k  =  2.5 
-       C  =  0.1 
b-»MAX  n^ 

/' 

\ 

r 

\ 

J 

' 

^ 

r 

\ 

r\ 

\ 

/ 

f 

V 

1] 

s — 

QC=o.i/ 

/ 

f 

0.2 

// 

r 

0.4 

// 

1 

V 

// 

\ 

7 

\ 

<^ 

L 

/ 

\ 

A 

\ 

^ 

^ 

CASES  9, 

0,14 

(c) 

QC=0.2 
-           k=2.5 
b-»MAX//| 

rv 

-\ 

1 

u 

\ 

r 

C=o,s/// 

\ 

/  rf-o  10 

\ 

///o.05 

i 

II 

k 

A 

f 

/ 

^ 

8    0 


4 

y 


CASES  1C 

,11,12 

iH 

r 

V 

r\ 

(b) 

QC  =  o.2 
C  =  o.i 

k  =  2.5 

r 

k\ 

(A 

\ 

// 

\  / 

y 

^ 

c 

\ 

/ 

\f 

A 

\ 

\ 

/^,  =  >U,MAx/^ 

' 

/ 

A 

/ 

\ 

// 

/ 

\ 

/ 

f 

\ 

\ 

A 

/ 

I 

/ 

J 

/09«   / 

11 

y 

/ 

\ 

\    . 

// 

/ 

/ 

11 

/ 

\J 

17 

// 

Ai.^i 

^^ 

"w 

1 

/' 

y 



^^ 

.^^ 

-^ 

>^ 

'^1  =  0.3X/,MAX 
1             1 

7  8 

y 


10         11 


12        13        14         15 


Fig.  7(a)  — p^/po  versus  ?/,  (a)  using  QC  as  the  parameter,  for  A;  =  2.5,  C  =  0.1, 
and  6  for  maximum  small-signal  gain  (Cases  2, 10,  and  19) ;  (b)  using  h  as  the  param- 
eter, for  k  =  2.50,  C  =  0.1  and  QC  =  0.2  (Cases  10,  11,  12  and  13);  and  (c)  using 
C  as  the  parameter,  for  k  =  2.50,  QC  =  0.2  and  h  for  maximum  small-signal  gain 
(Cases  9,  10  and  14). 


368 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


mental  component  of  the  electron  charge  density  of  the  beam  multiplied 
by  a  constant 

/     Zq/o  C         2uo 


2wo\ 
h) 


(27) 


V     4C  2(1  +  hC) 
The  ratio  of  the  electron  charge  density  to  the  average  charge  density, 

P«(2) 


Po 


2319^21 
5  17/^,1  9 


^  +e 


Fig.  8(a)  —  y  versus  <f  -  hrj  for  QC  =  0.2,  k  =  2.5,  b  for  mi  =  0.67 
C  =  small. 


Ml  (max)  and 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY   OF   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       369 

is  plotted  in  Fig.  7  versus  y,  using  QC,  h  and  C,  as  the  parameters.  They 
lare  also  the  curves  for  the  backward  wave  (the  component  which  is 
!  coupled  to  the  beam)  when  multiplied  by  the  proportional  constant  given 
in  (27).  It  is  interesting  to  see  that  the  maximum  values  of  p^/po  are 
between  1.0  and  1.2  for  QC  =  0.2  and  decrease  as  QC  increases.  The 
peaks  of  the  curves  do  not  occur  at  the  saturation  values  of  y. 

10.  y  VERSUS  ((p  —  by)  diagrams 

To  study  the  effect  of  C,  b,  and  QC  on  efficiency  y  versus  (<p  —  by) 
diagrams  are  plotted  in  Figs.  8(b),  (c),  (d)  and  (e)  for  Cases  (21),  (16), 
(10)  and  (21),  respectively.  {<p  —  by)  here  is  ($  +  6)  in  Nordsieck's  nota- 
tion. In  these  diagrams,  the  curves  numbered  from  1  to  24  correspond  to 
the  24  electrons  used  in  the  calculation  with  each  curve  for  one  electron. 
Only  odd  numbered  electrons  are  presented  to  avoid  possible  confusion 
arisen  from  too  many  lines.  The  reciprocal  of  the  slope  of  the  curve  as 


-10      -9      -8 


jo-by 


Fig.  8(b)  —  y  versus  <p 
C  =  0.1  (Case  12). 


bij  for  QC  =  0.2,  k  =  2.5,  b  for  mi  =  0.67Mi(max)  and 


370 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


given  by  (18)  is  proportional  to  the  ac  displacement  of  electron  per  unit 
of  ij.  (In  small-C  theorj^  it  is  proportional  to  the  ac  velocity  of  the  elec- 
tron.) Concentration  of  curves  is  obviously  proportional  to  the  charge- 
density  distribution  of  the  beam.  In  the  shaded  regions,  the  axially  di- 
rected electric  field  of  the  circuit  is  negative  and  thus  accelerates  elec- 
trons in  the  positive  z  direction.  Electrons  are  decelerated  in  the  un- 
shaded regions  where  the  circuit  field  is  positive.  The  boundaries  of  these 
regions  are  constant  phase  contours  of  the  circuit  wave.  (They  are  con- 
stant $  contours  in  Nordsieck's  notation.) 

These  figures  are  actuallj'  the  "space-time"  diagrams  which  unfold 
the  historj^  of  every  electron  from  the  input  to  the  output  ends.  The 
effect  of  C  can  be  clearly  seen  by  comparing  Figs.  8(a),  (b)  and  (c). 
These  diagrams  are  plotted  for  QC  =  0.2,  A;  =  2.5,  h  for  jui  =  0.67 
jui(max)  and  for  Fig.  8(a),  C  =  small,  for  Fig.  8(b),  C  =  0.1,  and  for 
Fig.  8(c),  C  =  .15.  It  may  be  seen  that  because  of  the  velocity  spread  of 
the  electrons,  the  saturation  level  in  Fig.  8(a)  is  9.3  whereas  in  Figs.  8(b) 
and  (c),  it  is  7.2  and  7.0,  respectively.  It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that 
Eff./C  decreases  as  C  increases. 

The  effects  of  h  and  QC  may  be  observed  by  comparing  Figs.  8(d)  and 
(b),  and  Figs.  8(b)  and  (e),  respectively.  The  details  will  not  be  de- 
scribed here.  It  is  however  suggested  to  study  these  diagrams  with  those 
given  in  the  small-C  theory. 


7.2 

5 

1 

23  9 

11 

i'5 

7     3 

1719  21  13 

23 

15 

1719  21 

^" 

^-^^  ?ny 

J^ 

V 

^v:\ 

S 

\| 

A 

\- 

I 

SATURATION 

6.8 

6.4 
6.0 
5.6 
6.2 

.«,^ 

^ 

*tf 

LEVEL 

" 

vK 

sL- 

^ 

^N 
^ 

V 

\ 

^ 

■I 

^ 

^ 

L^ 

i 

^ 

^ 

y 

r 

\ 

rt 

'a 

[  \ 

1 

rt 

^VL 

/ 

1 

V 

«x 

t 

/ 

< 
$ 

^W 

I       / 

/ 

-^ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

w 

t 

ll  1 

'—  T 

^ 

kU\ 

4.4 

4.0 

3.6 

3.2 

2.8 

2.4 
?0 

'^ 

t 

^ 

\\\^ 

\  \   V 

\ 

I  1 

/ 

\\ 

1 
-    1 

\  \ 
1  \ 
1  \ 

r- 

1 

/, 

1 

\ 

\\\ 

IS     _H 

1  1 

li 

V-' 

\  \ 

\ 

' 

% 

1 

■  1 

1    1 
1    1 

i     1 

>  1 
1 

\ 

\ 

1 

j 

i 

r 
1 

ll 

i  i 

i5!r 

1 

ti23l 
11     1 

,3 

_ 

-1 

9  in 

L.          J 

3  15  17  ig/sii 
1         i     i 

23 

-10     -9 


-8      -7 


-4     -3 


0        1 


10 


Fig.  8(c)  —  y  versus  <p  —  by  for  QC  =  0.2,  k  —  2.5,  b  for^i  =  0.67^1  (max)  and  , 
C  =  0.15  (Case  16). 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL   THEORY    OF   TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       371 
11.    A    QUALITATIVE    PICTURE    AND    CONCULSIONS 

We  have  exhibited  in  the  previous  sections  the  most  important  non- 
linear characteristics  of  the  traveling  wave  ampUfier.  Xumerical  compu- 
tations based  on  a  model  of  24  electrons  have  been  carried  out  for  more 
than  twenty  cases  covering  useful  ranges  of  design  and  operating  parame- 
ters. The  results  obtained  for  the  saturation  Eff./C  may  be  summarized 
as  follows: 

(1)  It  decreases  with  C  particularly  at  large  values  of  QC. 

(2)  For  C  =  0.1,  it  varies  roughly  from  3.7  for  QC  =  0.1  to  2.3  for 
i}C  =  0.4,  and  only  varies  slightl}^  with  h. 

(3)  For  C  =  0.15,  it  varies  from  2.7  to  2.5  for  QC  from  0.1  to  0.2  and 
\i  corresponding  to  the  maximum  small-signal  gain.  It  varies  slightly 
with  h  for  QC  =  0.2. 

(4)  It  is  almost  constant  between  k  —  1.25  and  2.50. 

In  order  to  understand  the  traveling-wave  tube  better,  it  is  important 
to  have  a  simplified  qualitative  picture  of  its  operation.  It  is  obvious  that 
to  obtain  higher  amplification,  more  electrons  must  travel  in  the  region 
where  the  circuit  field  is  positive,  that  is,  in  the  region  where  electrons 


6.8 
6.4 
6.0 

17 

3 
51    9i7 

13     15 

11 

23     21 

7 
J 19 

13 

5 

11 

O^ 

N 

N 

cl. 

\ 

vV 

\ 

vn 

^ 

.     ^^vV    ^ 

\ 

Vv 

\ 

\ 

^A 

TURAT 

lOM 

^ 

v^§^ 

\ 

\ 

\j 

l\ 

LEVEL 

5.6 
5.2 
4.8 
4.4 
4.0 
3.6 
3.2 
2.8 
2.4 

* 

3"  - 

. 

/ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

N 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

'V 

\\ 

\ 

K 

l\ 

\ 

1 
1 

1 

1 

/ 

/ 
1 

/i^ 

\\ 

-^A 

"^ 

\ 

\ 
t 

/ 
/ 
1 

r 
1 

■  /A\\\ 

f 

f 

fX 

V 

v 

1 
1 

\ 

1 
I 
1 

/ 

N 

\\v 

\\  \ 

/ 

t 

/ 

1 

\ 

^ 

\°  1 

I 

i 

/ 
f 

\\\ 

f 

1 

/ 

\  \ 

\  \ 

f 

1 
1 

( 

1 

r 

f 

// 

\\ 

1 
1 

1 

\\ 

/ 

\  \ 

11«13» 

151    17 

1      3 

5 

] 

g\  inisl  15 

7 

19 

21/  2 

3 

?n 

1      1 

1 

1     \      li\ 

1    i 

t    J    iJ 

-1 


SP-by 


Fig.  8(d)  —  V  versus  <p  —  by  for  QC  =  0.2,  k  =  2.5,  b  for  m  =  mi  (max)  and 
''  =  0.1  (Case  10). 


372 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL    JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


8.8 

11 

5   3  15  9 

7  21 

17? 

23 

1 

15 

21 

23 

^-~ 

-^ 

R 

StiC^  1 

^^ 

/ 

/' 

1- 

SATURATION 

8.4 
8.0 
7.6 
7.2 
6.8 
6.4 
6.0 
6.6 
5.2 
4.8 
4.4 
4.0 
3.6 
3.2 
2.8 
2.4 
?,0 

IQ** 

:^ 

^ 

■"           LEVEL 

~    - 

1 

r4- 

■~3 

N,    , 

/ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\, 

7H 
1 

"^^ 

d 

\ 

/ 

^v.-— ^.-. 

""^ 

\ 
\ 

t 

y- 

[V\ 

fe 

\ 

^ 

\ 

>^ 

\ — p 

\  \ 
\  \ 

v\ 

I 

:: 

''^: 

N\ 

"t 

^ 

:\ 

\ 
\ 

-^^ 

K\l 

1 

H. 

'■.-■; 

1 

1 
1 

Ui 

y 

V 

t 
1 
J. 

1  ^W 

^\ 

/ 

/ 

)) 

r 
i 
t 

l-^i 

\V 

d 

\ 

r 

// 

1 
( 
1 

i  : 

1 

\\ 

; 

1 

/ 

i 

w 

\\ 

,  :' 

■,J; 

W 

I 

1 
1 
1 

— p- 

rl  - 

1    \ 

/ 

] 

\ 

-— - 

1 

1 
1 

1 

\\\ 

1 

% 

1 

1    1 
1    1 

1 

1 
t 

n 

, 

9 1 

1 
1 

15; 

f 

,'21 123 

/     !l 

V' 

3  15  17  jl9 

21   23 

-1 

0      - 

9      - 

8       - 

7      - 

6      - 

5      - 

4      - 

3      - 

2      - 

1 

0 

1      : 

3 

3 

- 

i        5 

6 

7 

3         9 

y-by 

Fig.  8(e)  —  y  versus  <p  —  by  for  QC  =  0.4,  k  =  2.5,  b  for  in  =  0.67ui(max)  and 
C  =  0.1  (Case  21). 

are  decelerated  by  the  circuit  field.  At  the  input  end  of  the  tube,  elec- 
trons are  uniformly  distributed  both  in  the  accelerating  and  decelerating 
field  regions.  Bunching  takes  place  when  the  accelerated  electrons  push 
forward  and  the  decelerated  ones  press  backward.  The  center  of  a  bunch 
of  electrons  is  located  well  inside  the  decelerating  field  region  because 
the  circuit  wave  travels  slower  than  the  electrons  on  the  average  (6  is 
positive).  The  effectiveness  of  the  amplification,  or  more  specifically  the  ! 
saturation  efficiency,  therefore  depends  on  (1),  how  tight  the  bunching :' 
is,  and  (2),  how  long  a  bunch  travels  inside  the  decelerating  field  region 
before  its  center  crosses  the  boundary  between  the  accelerating  and 
decelerating  fields. 

For  small-C,  the  ac  velocities  of  the  electrons  are  small  compared  with 
the  dc  velocity.  The  electron  bunch  stays  longer  with  the  decelerating 
circuit  field  before  reaching  the  saturation  level  when  h  or  QC  is  larger. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  space  charge  force,  or  large  QC  or  k  tends  to  dis- 
tort the  bunching.  As  the  consequence,  the  saturation  efficiency  increases  , 
with  h,  and  decreases  as  k  or  QC  increases.  When  C  becomes  finite  how- 


A   LARGE   SIGNAL  THEORY   OF  TRAVELING-WAVE   AMPLIFIERS       373 

ever,  the  ac  velocities  of  the  electrons  are  no  longer  small  as  compared 
I  with  their  average  speed.  The  velocity  spread  of  the  electrons  becomes 
,  an  important  factor  in  determining  the  efficiency.  Its  effect  is  to  loosen 
the  bunching,  and  consequently  it  lowers  the  saturation  level  and  re- 
duces the  limiting  efficiency.  It  is  seen  from  Figs.  5  and  6  that  the 
.   velocity  spread  increases  sharply  with  C  and  also  steadily  with  b  and  QC. 
\  This  explains  the  fact  that  in  the  present  calculation  the  saturation 
Eff./C  decreases  with  C  and  is  almost  constant  with  h  whereas  in  the 
1 1  small-C  theory  it  is  constant  with  C  and  increases  steadily  with  b. 

12.    ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  writer  wishes  to  thank  J.  R.  Pierce  for  his  guidance  during  the 
course  of  this  research,  and  L.  R.  Walker  for  many  interesting  discus- 
sions concerning  the  working  equations  and  the  method  of  calculating 

I  the  backward  wave.  The  writer  is  particularly  grateful  to  Miss  D.  C. 
Leagus  who,  under  the  guidance  of  V.  M.  Wolontis,  has  carried  out  the 

^  numerical  work  presented  with  endless  effort  and  enthusiasm. 

APPENDIX 

The  initial  conditions  at  i/  =  0  are  computed  from  Pierce's  linearized 
theory.  For  small-signal,  we  have 

ai(?/)  =  4A(y)  cos  (6  -f  ^2)2/  (A-1) 

«2(2/)  =  -4A(y)  sin  (6  +  ju2)y  (A-2) 

A(y)  =  ee"''  (A-3) 

Here  e  is  taken  equal  to  0.03,  a  value  which  has  been  used  in  Tien-Walker- 
'  Wolontis'  paper.  Define 

;  ^  =  wiy,  <po)  (A-4)  'X  =  pe-^'"  +  p*e^'^'>        (A-5) 

dy 

where  p*  is  the  conjugate  of  p.  After  substituting  (A-1)  to  (A-5)  into  the 
working  equations  (15)  to  (18)  and  carrying  out  considerable  algebraic 
work,  we  obtain  exactly  Pierce's  equation. 

2  (1  +  jC/i)(l  +  bC)  innn    \    ah  \^       r\  r\ 

(j  -  >iCfi  -h  j}/ibC)(ti  +  jb) 


provided  that 


+  CO 

—k\((>(.y  ,<po+<t>)—<p(.y  ,Vo)l['^+Cw(.y  ,ipo+(t>)] 
0 


(A-7) 
•  di^  sgn  (^(?/,  .i?o  +  «/))  -  9?(^,  <Po))  =  8eQC 

(1  -f  3Cy){ii  ^  jb)  I  e''"  cos  (arg  [(1  -f  jCm)(m  +  jb)]  +  my  -  ^0) 


374 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Here  ^  =  Mi  +  JM2  or  Pierce's  rri  +  jiji  .  From  (A-7)  the  value  of  Up  is 
determined  for  a  given  QC.  The  ac  velocities  of  the  electrons  are  derived 
from  (A-4),  such  as, 


=    -26 


M 


M  +  jb 
1  +  jcn 


e"^"  cos  (  arg 


M 


M  +  jb 


rvi+iCM/j 


+  M22/  —  <Po 


(A-8) 


(A-1),  (A-2),  (A-7)  and  (A-8)  are  the  expressions  used  to  calculate  the 
initial  conditions  at  y  =  0,  Avhen  fn  and  jU2  are  solved  from  Pierce's  equa- 
tion (A-6). 

From  (12c),  the  particular  solution  of  the  backward  wave  at  small- 
signal  is  found  to  be 

j^,     .  .,     -2iC(l+iC/x)(M+ib) 


^Ml!/ 


2j  —  CfjL  -\-  icb 

r        [-2jC{\  - 


cos 


+  iCM)(M+i6)' 


Cn  +  jcb 


+  M2y  —  ^0 


which  agrees  with  Pierce's  analysis 


17 


3. 

4. 


REFERENCES 

1.  J.  R.  Pierce,  Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  D.  Van  Nostrand  Co.,  N.Y.,  1950,  p.  160. 

2.  R.  L.  Hess,  Some  Results  in  the  Large-Signal  Analysis  of  Traveling-Wave 

Tubes,  Technical  Report  Series  No.  60,  Issue  No.  131,  Electronic  Research 
Laboratory,  University  of  California,  Berkeley,  California. 

C.  K.  Birdsall,  unpublished  work. 

J.  J.  Caldwell,  unpublished  work. 

5.  P.  Parzen,  Nonlinear  Effects  in  Traveling-Wave  Amplifiers,  TR/AF-4,  Radia- 

tion Laboratory,  The  Johns  Hopkins  University,  April  27,  1954. 

6.  A.  Kiel  and  P.  Parzen,  Non-linear  Wave  Propagation  in  Traveling-Wave 

Amplifiers,  TR/AF-13,  Radiation  Laboratory,  The  Johns  Hopkins  Univer- 
sity, March,  1955. 

7.  A.  Nordsieck,  Theory  of  the  Large-Signal  Behavior  of  Traveling-Wave  Ampli- 
fiers, Proc.  I.R.E.,  41,  pp.  630-637,  May,  1953. 

H.  C.  Poulter,  Large  Signal  Theory  of  the  Traveling-Wave  Tube,  Tech.  Re- 
port No.  73,  Electronics  Research  Laboratory,  Stanford  University,  Cali- 
fornia, Jan.,  1954. 

P.  K.  Tien,  L.  R.  Walker  and  V.  M.  Wolontis,  A  Large  Signal  Theory  of  Trav- 
eling-Wave Amplifiers,  Proc.  LR.E.,  43,  pp.  260-277  March,  1955. 

J.  E.  Rowe,  A  Large  Signal  Analysis  of  the  Traveling-Wave  Amplifier,  Tech. 
Report  No.  19,  Electron  Tube  Laboratory,  University  of  Michigan,  Ann 
Arbor,  April,  1955. 
11.  P.  K.  Tien  and  L.  R.  Walker,  Correspondence  Section,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43, 
p.  1007,  Aug.,  1955. 

Nordsieck,  op.  cit.,  equation  (1). 

L.  Brillouin,  The  Traveling-Wave  Tube  (Discussion  of  Waves  for  Large 
Amplitudes),  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  20,  p.  1197,  Dec,  1949. 

Pierce,  op.  cit.,  p.  9. 

Nordsieck,  op.  cit.,  equation  (4). 

Pierce,  op.  cit.,  equation  (7.13). 
17.  J.  R.  Pierce,  Theory  of  Traveling-Wave  Tube,  Appendix  A,  Proc.  I.R.E. 
35,  p.  121,  Feb.,  1947. 


8. 


10 


12 
13 

14 
15 
16 


A  Detailed  Analysis  of  Beam  Formation 
with  Electron  Guns  of  the  Pierce  Type 

By  W.  E.  DANIELSON,  J.  L.  ROSENFELD,*  and  J.  A.  SALOOM 

(Manuscript  received  November  10,  1955) 

The  theory  of  Cutler  and  Hines  is  extended  in  this  paper  to  permit  an 
analysis  of  heam-spreading  in  electron  guns  of  high  convergence.  A  lens 
correction  for  the  finite  size  of  the  anode  aperture  is  also  included.  The  Cutler 
and  Hines  theory  was  not  applicable  to  cases  where  the  effects  of  thermal 
velocities  are  large  compared  with  those  of  space  charge  and  it  did  not  include 
a  lens  correction.  Gun  design  charts  are  presented  which  include  all  of  these 
effects.  These  charts  may  he  conveniently  used  in  choosing  design  parameters 
to  produce  a  prescribed  beam. 

CONTENTS 

1 .  Introduction 377 

2.  Present  Status  of  Gun  Design;  Limitations 378 

3.  Treatment  of  the  Anode  Lens  Problem 379 

A.  Superposition  Approach 379 

B.  Use  of  a  False  Cathode 382 

C.  Calculation  of  Anode  Lens  Strength  by  the  Two  Methods 383 

4.  Treatment  of  Beam  Spreading,  Including  the  Effect  of  Thermal  Electrons  388 

A.  The  Gun  Region 388 

B.  The  Drift  Region 392 

5.  Numerical  Data  for  Electron  Gun  and  Beam  Design 402 

A.  Choice  of  Variables 402 

B.  Tabular  Data 402 

C.  Graphical  Data,  Including  Design  Charts  and  Beam  Profiles 402 

D.  Examples  of  Gun  Design  Using  Design  Charts 403 

6.  Comparison  of  Theory  with  Experiment 413 

A.  Measurement  of  Current  Densities  in  the  Beam 413 

B.  Comparison  of  the  Experimentally  Measured  Spreading  of  a  Beam  with 
that  Predicted  Theoretically 416 

C.  Comparison  of  Experimental  and  Theoretical  Current  Density  Distri- 
butions where  the  Minimum  Beam  Diameter  is  Reached 418 

D.  Variation  of  Beam  Profile  with  T 418 

7.  Some  Additional  Remarks  on  Gun  Design 418 


*  Mr.  Rosenfeld  participated  in  this  work  while  on  assignment  to  the  Labora- 
tories as  part  of  the  M.I.T.  Cooperative  Program. 

375 


376  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

GLOSSARY   OF   SYMBOLS 

Ai ,  2  anode  designations 

B,  C  anode  potentials 

Ci ,  2  functions  used  in  evaluating  cr+' 

dA  increment  of  area 

dl,  dz  increments  of  length 

e  .  electronic  charge,  base  of  natural  logarithms 

En  electric  field  normal  to  electron  path 

F  modified  focal  length  of  the  anode  lens 

Fd  focal  length  of  the  anode  lens  as  given  by  Davisson^ 

Fn  force  acting  normal  to  an  electronic  path 

Fr ,  a  fraction  of  the  total  current  which  would  flow  through 

a  circle  of  radius  r,  a 

/,  Id  total  beam  current 

It  beam  current  within  a  radius,  r,  of  the  center 

J  current  density 

k  Boltzman's  constant 

K    -  a  quantity  proportional  to  gun  perveance 

m  electronic  mass 

P  gun  perveance 

P{r)  probability  that  a  thermal  electron  has  a  radial  posi- 

tion between  r  and  r  -\-  dr 

r  radial  distance  from  beam  axis 

Va  ,  c  anode,  cathode  radii 

r^  distance  from  beam  axis  to  path  of  an  electron  emitted 

with  zero  velocity  at  the  edge  of  the  cathode 

rgs  radius  of  circle  through  which  95%  of  the  beam  cur- 

rent would  pass 

f  distance  from  center  of  curvature  of  cathode;  hence, 

fc  is  the  cathode  radius  of  curvature  and  (fc  —  fa) 
is  the  distance  from  cathode  to  anode 

re+'  slope  of  edge  nonthermal  electron  path  on  drift  side  of 

enode  lens 

Te-'  slope  of  edge  nonthermal  electron  path  on  gun  side  of 

anode  lens 

R  a  dummy  integration  variable 

t  time 

T  cathode  temperature  in  degrees  K 

u  longitudinal  electron  velocity 

Vc ,  X  ,  y  transverse  electron  velocities 

V,  Va  ,  f  ,  X         beam  voltages  with  cathode  taken  as  ground 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS  377 

V(f,    /■),    Vc.(f,     potential  distributions  used  in  the  anode  lens  study 
r),  etc. 

V'  voltage  gradient 

z  distance  along  the  beam  from  the  anode  lens 

2n,in  distance  to  the  point  where  rgs  is  a  minimum 

(  —  a)  Langmuir  potential  parameter  for  spherical  cathode- 

anode  gun  geometry 

7  slope  of  an  electron's  path  after  coming  into  a  space 

charge  free  region  just  beyond  the  anode  lens 

r  the  factor  which  divides  Fd  to  give  the  modified  anode 

focal  length 

5  dimensionless  radius  parameter 
€o                            dielectric  constant  of  free  space 
f  dimensionless  voltage  parameter 

6  slope  of  an  electron's  path  in  the  gun  region 
r}  charge  to  mass  ratio  for  the  electron 

fx  normalized  radial  position  in  a  beam 

a  the  radial  position  of  an  electron  which  left  the  cathode 

center  with  "normal"  transverse  velocity 
(T+'  slope  of  o--electron  on  drift  side  of  anode  lens 

a  J  slope  of  (T-electron  on  gun  side  of  anode  lens 

^  electric  flux 

1.   INTRODUCTION 

During  the  past  few  years  there  have  been  several  additions  to  the 
family  of  microwave  tubes  rec}uiring  long  electron  beams  of  small  diame- 
ter and  high  current  density.  Due  to  the  limited  electron  current  which 
can  be  "drawn  from  unit  area  of  a  cathode  surface  with  some  assurance 
of  long  cathode  operating  life,  high  density  electron  beams  have  been 
produced  largely  through  the  use  of  convergent  electron  guns  which 
increase  markedly  the  current  density  in  the  beam  over  that  at  the 
cathode  surface. 

An  elegant  approach  to  the  design  of  convergent  electron  guns  was 
provided  by  J.  R.  Pierce^  in  1940.  Electron  guns  designed  by  this  method 
are  known  as  Pierce  guns  and  have  found  extensive  use  in  the  produc- 
tion of  long,  high  density  beams  for  microwave  tubes. 

]\Iore  recent  studies,  reviewed  in  Section  2,  have  led  to  a  better  under- 
standing of  the  influence  on  the  electron  beam  of  (a)  the  finite  velocities 
with  which  electrons  are  emitted  from  the  cathode  surface,  and  (b)  the 
defocusing  electric  fields  associated  with  the  transition  from  the  ac- 
celerating region  of  the  gun  to  the  drift  region  beyond.  Although  these 
two  effects  have  heretofore  been  treated  separately,  it  is  in  many  cases 


378  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

necessary  to  produce  electron  beams  under  circumstances  where  both 
effects  are  important  and  so  must  be  dealt  with  simultaneously  and  more 
precisely  than  has  until  now  been  possible.  It  is  the  purpose  of  this  paper 
to  provide  a  simple  design  procedure  for  typical  Pierce  guns  which  in- 
cludes both  effects.  Satisfactory  agreement  has  been  obtained  between 
measured  l^eam  contours  and  those  predicted  for  several  guns  having 
per\'eances  (i.e.,  ratios  of  beam  current  to  the  ^^  power  of  the  anode 
voltage)  from  0.07  X  10-«  to  0.7  X  10"^  amp  (volt)-3/2. 

2.    PRESENT   STATUS    OF   GUN    DESIGN  —  LIMITATIONS 

Gun  design  techniques  of  the  type  originally  suggested  by  J.  R.  Pierce 
were  enlarged  in  papers  by  SamueP  and  by  Field^  in  1945  and  1946. 
Samuel's  work  did  not  consider  the  effect  of  thermal  velocities  on  beam 
shape  and,  although  Field  pointed  out  the  importance  of  thermal  veloci- 
ties in  limiting  the  theoretically  attainable  current  density,  no  method 
for  predicting  beam  size  and  shape  by  including  thermal  effects  was 
suggested.  The  problem  of  the  divergent  effect  of  the  anode  lens  was 
treated  in  terms  of  the  Davisson"*  electrostatic  lens  formula,  and  no 
corrections  were  applied.* 

More  recently.  Cutler  and  Hines^  and  also  Cutler  and  Saloom^  have 
presented  theoretical  and  experimental  work  which  shows  the  pro- 
nounced effects  of  the  thermal  velocity  distribution  on  the  size  and  shape 
of  beams  produced  by  Pierce  guns.  Cutler  and  Saloom  also  point  to  the 
critical  role  of  the  beam-forming  electrode  in  minimizing  beam  distor- 
tion due  to  improper  fields  in  the  region  where  the  cathode  and  the 
beam-forming  electrode  would  ideally  meet.  With  regard  to  the  anode 
lens  effect,  these  authors  also  show  experimental  data  which  strongly 
suggest  a  more  divergent  lens  than  given  by  the  Davisson  formula.  The 
Hines  and  Cutler  thermal  velocity  calculations  have  been  used"'  "^  to 
predict  departures  in  current  density  from  that  which  should  prevail  in 
ideal  beams  where  thermal  electrons  are  absent.  Their  theory  is  limited, 
however,  by  the  assumption  that  the  beam-spreading  caused  by  thermal 
velocities  is  small  compared  to  the  nominal  beam  size. 

In  reviewing  the  various  successes  of  the  above  mentioned  papers  in 
affording  valuable  tools  for  electron  beam  design,  it  appeared  to  the 
present  authors  that  significant  improvement  could  be  made,  in  two 
respects,  by  extensions  of  existing  theories.  First,  a  more  thorough  in- 


*  It  is  in  fact  erroneously  statoci  in  Reference  5  that  the  lens  action  of  an  actual 
structure  must  be  somewhat  weaker  than  i)re(licted  by  the  Davisson  formula  so 
that  the  beam  on  leaving  the  anode  hole  is  more  convergent  than  would  be  calcu- 
lated by  llie  Davisson  method.  This  cjuestion  is  discussed  further  in  Section  3. 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS  379 

vestigation  of  the  anode  lens  effect  was  called  for;  and  second,  there  was 
a  need  to  extend  thermal  velocity  calculations  to  include  cases  where 
the  percentage  increase  in  beam  size  due  to  thermal  electrons  was  as 
large  as  100  per  cent  or  200  per  cent.  Some  suggestions  toward  meeting 
this  second  need  have  been  included  in  a  paper  by  M.  E.  Hines.*  They 
have  been  applied  to  two-dimensional  beams  by  R.  L.  Schrag.^  The 
particular  assumptions  and  methods  of  the  present  paper  as  applied  to 
the  two  needs  cited  above  are  somewhat  different  from  those  of  Refer- 
ences 8  and  9,  and  are  fully  treated  in  the  sections  which  follow. 

3.  TREATMENT  OF  THE  ANODE  LENS  PROBLEM 

Using  thermal  velocity  calculations  of  the  type  made  in  Reference  6, 
it  can  easily  be  shown  that  at  the  anode  plane  of  a  typical  moderate 
perveance  Pierce  type  electron  gun,  the  average  spread  in  radial  posi- 
tion of  those  electrons  which  originate  from  the  same  point  of  the  cathode 
is  several  times  smaller  than  the  beam  diameter.  For  guns  of  this  type, 
then,  we  may  look  for  the  effect  of  the  anode  aperture  on  an  electron 
beam  for  the  idealized  case  in  which  thermal  velocities  are  absent  and 
confidently  apply  the  correction  to  the  anode  lens  formula  so  obtained 
to  the  case  of  a  real  beam. 

Several  authors  have  been  concerned  with  the  diverging  effect  of  a 
hole  in  an  accelerating  electrode  where  the  field  drops  to  zero  in  the 
space  beyond, ^°  but  these  treatments  do  not  include  space  charge  effects 
except  as  given  by  the  Davisson  formula  for  the  focal  length,  Fd  ,  of 
the  lens: 

F.  =  -^  (1) 

where  V  would  be  the  magnitude  of  the  electric  field  at  the  aperture  if 
it  were  gridded,  and  V  would  be  the  voltage  there. 

In  attempting  to  describe  the  effect  of  the  anode  hole  with  more  ac- 
curacy than  (1)  affords,  we  have  combined  analytical  methods  with 
electrolytic  tank  measurements  in  two  i-ather  different  ways.  The  first 
method  to  be  given  is  more  rigorous  than  the  second,  hut  a  modification 
of  the  second  method  is  much  easier  to  use  and  gives  essentially  the 
same  result. 

A.  Siipcrposition  Approach  to  the  Anode  Lens  Problem 

Special  techniques  are  required  for  finding  electron  trajectories  in  a 
space  charge  limited  Pierce  gun  having  a  non-gridded  anode.  M.  E. 


380  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Hines  has  suggested*  that  a  fairly  accurate  description  of  the  potential 
distribution  in  such  guns  can  be  obtained  by  a  superposition  method  as 
follows: 

By  the  usual  tank  methods,  find  suitable  beam  forming  electrode  and 
anode  shapes  for  conical  space  charge  limited  flow  in  a  diode  having! 
cathode  and  anode  radii  of  curvature  given  by  fc  and  f„i  ,  respectively, 
as  shown  in  Fig.  1(a).  Using  the  electrolytic  tank  with  an  insulator  along 
the  line  which  represents  the  beam  edge,  trace  out  an  equipotential 
which  intersects  the  insulator  at  a  distance  fa2  from  the  cathode  center 
of  curvature.  Let  the  cathode  be  at  ground  potential  and  let  the  voltage 
on  anode  Ai  be  called  B.  Suppose,  now,  that  we  are  interested  in  electron 
trajectories  in  a  non-gridded  gun  where  the  edge  of  the  anode  hole  is  a 
distance  fai  from  the  center  of  curvature  of  the  cathode.  Let  the  voltage, 
C,  for  this  anode  be  chosen  the  same  as  the  value  of  the  equipotential 
traced  out  above  for  the  case  of  cathode  at  ground  potential  and  A\ 
at  potential  B.  If  we  consider  the  space  charge  limited  flow  from  a 
cathode  which  is  followed  by  the  apertured  anode,  Ai  ,  and  the  full 
anode,  Ai ,  at  potentials  C  and  B,  respectively,  it  is  clear  that  a  conical 
flow  of  the  type  which  would  exist  between  concentric  spheres  will  re- 
sult. The  flow  for  such  cases  was  treated  by  Langmuir,^  and  the  associ- 
ated potentials  are  commonly  called  the  "Langmuir  potentials." 

If  we  operate  both  Ai  and  A2  at  potential  C,  however,  the  electrons 
will  pass  through  the  aperture  in  anode  A2  into  a  nearly  field-free  region. . 
If  the  distance,  fa2  —  Tai  ,  from  A2  to  Ai  is  greater  than  the  diameter  of 
the  aperture  in  A2 ,  the  flow  will  depend  very  little  on  the  shape  of  Ai 
and  the  electron  trajectories  and  associated  equipotentials  will  be  of  the 
type  we  wish  to  consider  except  in  a  small  region  near  Ai  .  We  will  shortly 
make  use  of  the  fact  that  the  space  charge  between  cathode  and  A 2  is 
not  changed  much  when  the  voltage  on  Ai  is  changed  from  B  to  C,  but 
first  we  will  define  a  set  of  potential  functions  which  will  be  needed. 

In  order  to  obtain  the  potential  at  arbitrary  points  in  any  axially  sym- 
metric gun  when  space  charge  is  not  neglected,  w^e  may  superpose  po- 
tential solutions  to  3  separate  problems  where,  in  each  case,  the  boundary 
condition  that  each  electrode  be  an  equipotential  is  satisfied.  We  will 
follow  the  usual  notation  in  using  f  for  the  distance  of  a  general  point 
from  the  cathode  center  of  curvature,  and  r  for  its  radial  distance  from 
the  axis  of  symmetry.  Let  Vdr,  r),  Vh(r,  >')  and  Vsdr,  r)  be  the  three 
potential  solutions  where:  (1)  Vaif,  r)  is  the  solution  for  the  case  of  no 
space  charge  with  Ai  and  cathode  at  zero  potential  and  A  2  at  potential 
C,  (2)  Vb{r^  r)  is  the  solution  for  the  case  of  no  space  charge  with  A2 


*  Verbal  disclosure. 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS 


381 


and  cathode  at  zero  potential  and  Ai  at  potential  B,  and  (3)  Vsc(f,  r)  is 
the  soUition  when  space  charge  is  present  but  when  Ax  ,  A^  ,  and  cathode 
are  all  grounded. 

If  the  configuration  of  charge  which  contributes  to  Vs<-(f,  r)  is  that 
corresponding  to  ideal  Pierce  type  flow,  then  we  can  use  the  principle 
of  superposition  to  give  the  Langmuir  potential,  VL(r,  r): 


VUr,  r)  =  Vcif,  r)  +  V,{f,  r)  +  V..{f,  r) 


(2) 


Furthermore,  the  potential  configuration  for  the  case  where  ^i  and  A2 
are  at  potentical  C  can  be  written 


V  =V.-\-^V,  +  F(.c)' 


(3) 


where  the  functional  notation  has  been  dropped  and  F(sc)'  is  the  po 
icntial  due  to  the  new  space  charge  when  Ai  and  A2  are  grounded. 
We  are  now  ready  to  use  the  fact  that  F(sc)'  may  be  well  approximated 
1)3'  Fsc  which  is  easily  obtained  from  (2).  This  substitution  may  be 
justified  by  noting  that  the  space  charge  distribution  in  a  gun  using  a 
\'oltage  C  for  Ai  does  not  differ  significanth^  from  the  corresponding  dis- 
tribution when  Ai  is  at  voltage  B  except  in  the  region  near  and  beyond 
A-i  where  the  charge  density  is  small  anyway  (because  of  the  high  electron 
velocities  there).  Substituting  Fsc  as  given  by  (2)  for  F(sc)'  in  (3)  then 
gives 


V 


Vi 


1 


B, 


V, 


(4) 


We  have  thus  obtained  an  expression,  (4),  for  the  potential  at  an  arbi- 


ANODE  A2 

v=c 


ANODE  A, 
V  =  B 


CATHODE 


Fig.  1(a)  — ■  Electrode  configuration  for  anode  lens  evaluation  in  Section  2>A. 


382  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

■i 

trary  point  in  our  gun  in  terms  of  the  well  known  solution  for  space 
charge  limited  flow  between  two  concentric  spheres,  Vl  ,  and  a  potential 
distribution,  Vb ,  which  does  not  depend  on  space  charge  and  can  there- 
fore be  obtained  in  the  electrolytic  tank.  Once  the  potential  distribution 
is  found,  electron  trajectories  may  be  calculated,  and  an  equivalent  lens 
sj^stem  found.  Equation  (4)  is  used  in  this  way  in  Part  C  as  one  basis  for 
estimating  a  correction  to  the  Davisson  equation.  (It  will  be  noted  that  i 
(4)  predicts  a  small  but  finite  negative  field  at  the  cathode.  This  is  be- 
cause the  space  charge  density  associated  with  Fsc  is  slightly  greater 
near  the  cathode  than  that  associated  with  F(sc)'  ,  and  it  is  this  latter 
space  charge  which  will  make  the  field  zero  at  the  cathode  under  real 
space  charge  limited  operation.  Equation  (4),  as  applied  in  Part  C  of  this 
section,  is  used  to  give  the  voltage  as  a  function  of  position  at  all  points 
except  near  the  cathode  where  the  voltage  curves  are  extended  smoothly 
to  make  the  field  at  the  cathode  vanish.) 

B.   Use  of  a  False  Cathode  in  Treating  the  Anode  Lens  Problem 

Before  evaluating  the  lens  effect  by  use  of  (4),  it  will  be  useful  to  de- 
velop another  approach  which  is  a  little  simpler.  The  evaluation  of  the 
lens  effect  predicted  by  both  methods  will  then  be  pursued  in  Part  C 
where  the  separate  results  are  compared. 

In  Part  A  we  noted  that  no  serious  error  is  made  in  neglecting  the  dif- 
ference between  the  two  space  charge  configurations  considered  there 
because  these  differences  were  mainly  in  the  very  low  space  charge 
region  near  and  beyond  A2  .  It  similarly  follows  that  we  can,  with  only  1 
a  small  decrease  in  accuracy,  ignore  the  space  charge  in  the  region  near 
and  beyond  A2  so  long  as  we  properly  account  for  the  effect  of  the  high 
space  charge  regions  closer  to  the  cathode.  To  place  the  foregoing  obser- 
vations on  a  more  quantitative  basis,  we  may  graph  the  Langmuir  po- 
tential (for  space  charge  limited  flow  between  concentric  spheres)  versus 
the  distance  from  cathode  toward  anode,  and  then  superpose  a  plot  of 
the  potential  from  LaPlace's  equation  (concentric  spheres;  no  space 
charge)  which  will  have  the  same  value  and  slope  at  the  anode.  The  La- 
Place  curve  will  depart  significantly  from  the  Langmuir  in  the  region  of 
the  cathode,  but  will  adequately  represent  it  farther  out."  Our  experi- 
ence has  shown  that  the  representation  is  "adequate"  until  the  difference 
between  the  two  potentials  exceeds  about  2  per  cent  of  the  anode  voltage. 
Then,  since  space  charge  is  not  important  in  the  region  near  the  anode 
for  the  case  of  a  gridded  Pierce  gun,  corresponding  to  space  charge 
limited  flow  between  concentric  spheres,  it  can  be  expected  to  be  similarly 
unimportant  for  cases  where  the  grid  is  replaced  by  an  aperture.  Let  us 


I 


BEAM   FORMATION   WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS 


383 


therefore  consider  a  case  where  electrons  are  emitted  perpendicularly 
and  with  finite  velocity  from  what  would  be  an  appropriate  spherical 
equipotential  between  cathode  and  anode  in  a  Pierce  type  gun.  So  long 
as  (a)  there  is  good  agreement  between  the  LaPlace  and  Langmuir  curves 
at  this  artificial  cathode  and  (b)  the  distance  from  this  artificial  cathode 
to  the  anode  hole  is  somewhat  greater  than  the  hole  diameter,  we  will 
liiid  that  the  divergent  effect  of  the  anode  hole  will  be  very  nearly  the 
same  in  this  concocted  space  charge  free  case  as  in  the  actual  case  where 
space  charge  is  present.  (The  quantitative  support  for  this  last  state- 
ment comes  largely  from  the  agreement  between  calculations  based  on 
this  method  and  calculations  by  method  A.)  The  electrode  configura- 
tion is  shown  in  Fig.  1(b),  and  the  potential  distribution  in  this  space 
charge  free  anode  region  can  now  be  easily  obtained  in  the  electrolytic 
j  tank.  This  potential  distribution  will  be  used  in  the  next  section  to  pro- 
^•ide  a  second  basis  for  estimating  a  correction  to  the  Davisson  equation. 

C.  Calculation  of  Anode  Lens  Strength  by  the  Two  Methods 

The  Davisson  equation,  (1),  may  be  derived  by  assuming  that  none 
of  the  electric  field  lines  which  originate  on  charges  in  the  cathode-anode 
region  leave  the  beam  before  reaching  the  ideal  anode  plane  where  the 
voltage  is  F,  and  that  all  of  these  field  lines  leave  the  beam  symmetrically 
and  radially  in  the  immediate  neighborhood  of  the  anode.  Electrons 
I  are  thus  considered  to  travel  in  a  straight  line  from  cathode  to  anode, 
and  then  to  receive  a  sudden  radial  impulse  as  they  cross  radially  diverg- 
ing electric  field  lines  at  the  anode  plane.  A  discontinuous  change  in 


CATHODE 


ANODE  A2 
V  =  C 


ANODE  A, 

v  =  c 


(b) 


^  FALSE 
CATHODE 


Fig.  1(b)  —  The  introduction  of  a  false  cathode  at  the  appropriate  potential 
lUows  the  effect  of  space  charge  on  the  potential  near  the  anode  hole  to  be  satis- 
:ictorily  approximated  as  discussed  in  Section  3i?. 


384  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

slope  is  therefore  produced  as  is  common  to  all  thin  lens  approximations. 
The  diverging  effect  of  electric  field  lines  which  originate  on  charges 
which  have  passed  the  anode  plane  is  then  normally  accounted  for  by 
the  universal  beam  spread  curve/"  In  our  attempt  to  evaluate  the  lens 
effect  more  accurately,  we  will  still  depend  upon  using  the  universal 
beam  spread  curve  in  the  region  following  the  lens  and  on  treating  the ; 
equivalent  anode  lens  as  thin.  Consequently  our  improved  accuracy 
must  come  from  a  mathematical  treatment  which  allows  the  electric 
field  lines  originating  in  the  cathode-anode  region  to  leave  the  beam  grad- 
ually, rather  than  a  treatment  where  all  of  these  flux  lines  leave  the  beam  , 
at  the  anode  plane.  In  practice  the  measured  perveances,  P(=  I/V^'^), 
of  active  guns  of  the  type  considered  here  have  averaged  within  1  or  2 
per  cent  of  those  predicted  for  corresponding  gridded  Pierce  guns.  There- 
fore the  total  space  charge  between  cathode  and  anode  is  much  the 
same  with  and  without  the  use  of  a  grid,  even  though  the  charge  dis- 
tribution is  not  the  same  in  the  two  cases.  The  total  flux  which  must 
leave  our  beam  is  therefore  the  same  as  that  which  will  leave  the  cor- , 
responding  idealized  beam  and  we  may  write 

yp    =      I    EndA     =    TT/VFidea/  (5) 

w^here  En  is  the  electric  field  normal  to  the  edge  of  the  beam,  ra  =  rdfa/fc) 
is  the  beam  radius  at  the  anode  lens,  and  Videai  is  the  magnitude  of  the 
field  at  the  corresponding  gridded  Pierce  gun  anode. 

To  find  the  appropriate  thin  lens  focal  length  we  will  now  find  the 
total  integrated  transverse  impulse  which  would  be  given  to  an  elec- 
tron which  follows  a  straight-line  path  on  both  sides  of  the  lens  (see  Fig. 
2),  and  we  will  equate  this  impulse  to  wAw  where  An  is  the  transverse 
velocity  given  to  the  electron  as  it  passes  through  the  equivalent  thin 
lens.  In  this  connection  we  will  restrict  our  attention  to  paraxial  elec- 
trons and  evaluate  the  transverse  electric  fields  from  (4)  and  from  the 
tank  plot  outlined  in  Section  B,  respectively.  The  total  transverse  im- 
pulse experienced  by  an  electron  can  be  written 

f      Fn  dt  =  e  [      —dl  (()) 

J  Path  J  Path     U 

where  u  is  the  velocity  along  the  path  and  Fn  is  the  force  normal  to  the 
path. 

We  will  usually  find  that  the  correction  to  (1)  is  less  than  about  20 
per  cent.  It  will  therefore  be  worthwhile  to  put  (6)  in  a  form  which  in 
effect  allows  us  to  calculate  deviaiions  from  Fu  as  given  by  (1)  instead 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS 


385 


1  of  deriving  a  completely  new  expression  for  F.  In  accomplishing  this  piir- 
f  pose,  it  will  be  helpful  to  define  a  dimensionless  function  of  radius,  6,  by 


-  =  1  +  5, 
r 

and  a  dimensionless  function  of  voltage,  f,  by 


(7a) 


(7b) 


where  Ta  is  the  radius  at  the  anode  lens  when  the  lens  is  considered  thin, 
and  T^'x  is  a  constant  voltage  to  be  specified  later.  (Note  that  the  quan- 
tities 5  and  f  are  not  necessarily  small  compared  to  1.)  Using  u  =  \/2r]V, 
and  substituting  for  -y/V  from  (7b)  we  obtain 


f  En  dl  4         r        , 

=  7~7tW  /  ^"^1  +  r  +  5  +  rs)  ^z 


(8) 


where  use  has  also  been  made  of  (7a)  in  the  form  1  =  r(l  +  d)/ra  .  Now, 
as  outlined  above,  we  equate  this  impulse  to  771  An,  and  we  obtain 


^»  =  WW.  (/  ''■'' ''  +  /  ''"'■'^  + '  +  ^''  'i 


(9) 


CATHODE 


Fig.  2  —  The  heavy  line  represents  an  electron's  path  when  the  effect  of  the 
.•mode  hole  may  be  represented  by  a  thin  lens,  and  when  space  charge  forces  are 
iihsent  in  the  region  following  the  anode  aperture.  For  paraxial  electrons,  the 
(negative)  focal  length  is  related  to  the  indicated  angles  by  (y  =  0  +  Ta/F). 


386 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


CENTER  OF 

~~  CURVATURE 

OF   CATHODE 

SURFACE 


Fig.  3  —  The  gun  parameters  used  in  Section  SC  for  comparing  two  methods  of 
evaluating  the  effect  of  the  anode  lens. 

The  first  integral  can  be  obtained  from  (5) ;  hence,  if  we  are  able  to  choose 
Vx  so  that  the  second  integral  vanishes,  we  may  write: 


Au  = 


raV'2riVx 


The  reciprocal  of  the  thin  lens  focal  length  is  therefore 

i  _       ^  _  ^' 

F  ~  ~raUf  ^  ~^VWf 


(10) 


where  w/  and  F/  are  the  final  velocity  and  voltage  of  the  electron  after 
it  leaves  the  lens  region. 

The  real  task,  then,  is  to  use  the  potential  distribution  in  the  gun  as 
obtained  by  the  methods  of  Part  A  or  Part  B  above  to  find  the  value  of 
V X  which  causes  the  last  integral  in  (9)  to  vanish :  To  compare  the  two 
focal  lengths  obtained  by  the  methods  of  Part  A  and  B  respectively,  a 
specific  tank  design  of  the  type  indicated  in  Fig.  1  was  carried  out.  The 
relevant  gun  parameters  are  indicated  in  Fig.  3.  Approximate  voltages 
on  and  near  the  beam  axis  were  obtained  as  indicated  in  Parts  A  and  B, 
above,  with  the  exception  that  in  the  superposition  method,  A,  special 
techniques  were  used  to  subtract  the  effect  of  the  space  charge  lying  in 
the  post-anode  region  (because  the  effect  of  this  space  charge  is  accounted 
for  separately  as  a  divergent  force  in  the  drift  region*).  From  these  data, 

*  See  Section  4B. 


BEAM  FOKMATION  WITH  ELECTRON  GUNS 


387 


800   805    810    815    820   825   830   835   840   845   850    855   860 


Fig.  4  —  Curves  for  finding  the  value  of  Fx  to  be  used  in  equation  (10)  for  the 
set  of  gun  parameters  of  Fig.  3. 


l)oth  the  direction  and  magnitude  of  the  total  electric  field  near  the 
beam  axis  were  (with  much  labor)  determined.  Once  these  data  had 
been  obtained,  a  trial  value  was  selected  for  Vx  ,  and  the  corresponding 
local  length  was  calculated  by  (10).  This  enabled  the  electron's  path 
through  the  associated  thin  lens  to  be  specified  so  that,  at  this  point  in 
the  procedure,  both  r  and  V  were  known  functions  of  ^,  and  the  quan- 
tities 8  and  f  were  then  obtained  as  functions  of  €  from  (7).  Finally  the 
second  integral  in  (9)  was  evaluated  for  the  particular  Vx  chosen,  and 
then  the  process  was  repeated  for  other  values  of  Vx  .  Fig.  4  shows  curves 
whose  ordinates  are  proportional  to  this  second  integral  and  whose 
abscissae  are  trial  values  for  Vx  .  As  noted  above,  the  appropriate  value 
for  Vx  is  that  value  which  makes  the  ordinate  vanish,  so  that  we  obtain 
T'c  =  813  and  839  for  methods  A  and  B,  respectively.  The  percentage 
difference  in  the  focal  lengths  obtained  by  the  two  methods  is  thus  only 
1 .6  per  cent,  and  the  reasonableness  of  making  calculations  as  outlined 
in  Part  B  is  thus  put  on  a  more  quantitative  basis. 

Even  calculations  based  on  the  method  of  Part  B  are  tedious,  and  we 
naturally  look  for  simpler  methods  of  estimating  the  lens  effect.  In  this 
fonnection  we  have  found  that  Vx  is  usually  well  approximated  by  the 
\alue  of  the  potential  at  the  point  of  intersection  between  the  beam  axis 
and  the  ideal  anode  sphere.  The  specific  values  of  the  potential  at  this 
point  as  obtained  by  the  methods  of  Parts  A  and  B  were  814  and  827, 
respectively.  It  will  be  noted  that  these  values  agree  remarkably  well 
with  the  values  obtained  above.  Furthermore,  very  little  extra  effort  is 
required  to  obtain  the  potential  at  this  intersection  in  the  false  cathode 
case: 


I 

388  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

Electrolytic  tank  measurements  are  normally  made  in  the  cathode- 
anode  region  to  give  the  potential  variation  along  the  outside  edge  of 
the  electron  beam  (for  comparison  with  the  Langmuir  potential) ;  hence, 
by  tracing  out  a  suitable  equipotential  line,  the  shape  of  the  false  cathode 
can  easily  be  obtained.  With  the  false  cathode  in  place  and  at  the  proper 
potential,  the  approximate  value  for  Vx  is  then  obtained  by  a  direct  tank 
measurement  of  the  potential  at  an  axial  point  whose  distance  from  the 
true  cathode  center  is  (fc  —  fa)  as  outlined  above.  Although  finite  elec- 
tron emission  velocities  typically  do  not  much  influence  the  trajectory 
of  an  electron  at  the  anode,  they  do  nevertheless  significantly  alter  the 
beam  in  the  region  beyond.  It  is  in  this  affected  region  where  experi- 
mental data  can  be  conveniently  taken.  We  must,  therefore,  postpone  a 
comparison  of  lens  theory  with  experiment  until  the  effect  of  thermal 
velocities  has  been  treated.  At  that  time  theoretical  predictions  com- 
bining the  effects  of  both  thermal  velocities  and  the  anode  lens  can  be 
made  and  compared  with  experiment.  Such  a  comparison  is  made  in 
Section  6. 

4.    TREATMENT  OF  BEAM  SPREADING,  INCLUDING  THE  EFFECT  OF  THERMAL 
ELECTRONS 

Jn  Section  2  the  desirability  of  having  an  approach  to  the  thermal 
spreading  of  a  beam  which  would  be  applicable  under  a  wide  variety  of 
conditions  was  stressed.  In  particular,  there  was  a  need  to  extend  ther- 
mal velocity  calculations  to  include  the  effects  of  thermal  velocities  even 
when  electrons  with  high  average  transverse  velocities  perturb  the  beam 
size  by  as  much  as  100  or  200  per  cent.  Furthermore,  a  realistic  mathe- 
matical description  which  would  allow  electrons  to  cross  the  axis  seemed 
essential.  The  method  described  below  is  intended  adequately  to  answer 
these  requirements. 

A.  The  Gun  Region 

The  Hines-Cutler  method  of  including  the  effect  of  thermal  velocities 
on  beam  size  and  shape  leads  one  to  conclude  that,  for  usual  anode 
voltages  and  gun  perveance,  the  beam  density  profile  in  the  plane  of 
the  anode  hole  is  not  appreciably  altered  by  thermal  velocities  of  emis- 
sion. (This  statement  will  be  verified  and  put  on  a  more  quantitative 
basis  below.)  Under  these  conditions,  the  beam  at  the  anode  is  ade- 
quately described  by  the  Hines-Cutler  treatment.  We  will  therefore  find 
it  convenient  to  adopt  their  notation  where  possible,  and  it  will  be 
worthwhile  to  review  their  approach  to  the  thermal  problem. 


BEAM   FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON   GUNS  389 

It  is  assumed  that  electrons  are  emitted  from  the  cathode  of  a  therm- 
ionic gun  with  a  IMaxwelhan  distribution  of  transverse  velocities 

ZTTfC  1 

where  Jc  is  the  cathode  current  density  in  the  z  direction,  T  is  the  cath- 
jode  temperature,  and  v^:  and  Vy  are  transverse  velocities.  The  number 
iof  electrons  emitted  per  second  with  radially  directed  voltages  between 

V  and  V  +  dV  is  then 


-(.Ve/kT) 


(S) 


^J.  =  /.e— -^^^(^^j  (12) 

Now  in  the  accelerating  region  of  an  ideal  Pierce  gun  (and  more  generally 
I  in  any  beam  exhibiting  laminar  flow  and  having  constant  current  density 
()\'er  its  cross  section)  the  electric  field  component  perpendicular  to  the 
axis  of  symmetry  must  vary  linearly  with  radius.  Conseciuently  Hines 
and  Cutler  measure  radial  position  in  the  electron  beam  as  a  fraction, 
^,  of  the  outer  beam  radius  (re)  at  the  same  longitudinal  position, 

r  =  fire  (13) 

The  laminar  flow  assumption  for  constant  current  densities  and  small 
beam  angles  implies  a  radius  of  curvature  for  laminar  electrons  which 
so  varies  linearly  with  radius  at  any  given  cross  section  so  that 


a 


Substituting  for  r  from  (13),  (14)  becomes 

rfV    ,    /2  dre\  dfj. 

d^^VcTt)dt=^  ^^^^ 

where  Ve  and  dr  /dt  can  be  easily  obtained  from  the  ideal  Langmuir 
solution.  Since  the  eciuation  is  linear  in  /x,  we  are  assured  that  the  radial 
position  of  a  non-ideal  electron  that  is  emitted  with  finite  transverse 
velocity  from  the  cathode  center  (where  ^  =  0)  will,  at  any  axial  point, 
be  proportional  to  dii/dt  at  the  cathode. 

Let  us  now  define  a  quantity  "o-"  such  that  n  =  a/re  is  the  solution 
to  (15)  with  the  boundary  conditions  /Xr  =  0  and 

_  1 
where  the  subscript  c  denotes  evaluation  at  the  cathode  surface,  k  is 


390  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Boltzman's  constant,  T  is  the  cathode  temperature  in  degrees  Kelvin, 
and  m  is  mass  of  the  electron.  For  the  case  ixc  =  0,  but  with  arbitrary 
initial  transverse  velocity,  we  will  then  have 

/^\ 

^^nl_    /kf  ^^^'^ 

Tc  y     m 

Plence  we  can  express  a  in  terms  of  the  thermal  electron's  radial  po- 
sition (r),  and  its  initial  transverse  velocity,  Vc , 


y  m  _     y 


.  .     -  .  /kT 

dt    }  f 


The  quantity  a  can  now  be  related  to  the  radial  spread  of  thermal 
electrons  (emitted  from  a  given  point  on  the  cathode)  with  respect  to 
an  electron  with  no  initial  velocity:  By  (11)  we  see  that  the  number 
of  electrons  leaving  the  cathode  with  dji/dt  =  Vc/ve  is  proportional  to  Vc 
exp  —Vcm/2kT.  Suppose  many  experiments  were  conducted  where  all 
electrons  except  one  at  the  cathode  center  had  zero  emission  velocity, 
and  suppose  the  number  of  times  the  initial  transverse  velocity  of  the 
single  thermal  electron  were  chosen  as  Vc ,  is  proportional  to  Vc  exp 
—  Vcm/2kT.  Then  the  probability,  P{r),  that  the  thermal  electron 
would  have  a  radial  position  between  r  and  r  -\-  dr  when  it  arrived  at  the 
transverse  plane  of  interest  would  be  proportional  to  Vc  exp  —Vc^(m/2kT). 
Here  Vc  is  the  proper  transverse  velocity  to  cause  arrival  at  radius  r,  and 
by  (17)  we  have 

a   y     m 
so  that  the  probability  becomes 

Pir)  =  J.e-^^'''-'^  d  (^Q  (18) 

We  therefore  identify  cr  with  the  standard  deviation  in  a  normal  or 
Gaussian  distribution  of  points  in  two  dimensions.  At  the  real  cathod(\ 
thermal  electrons  are  simultaneously  being  emitted  from  the  cathode 
surface  with  a  range  of  transverse  velocities.  However,  if  a  as  definml 
above  is  small  in  comparison  with  r,. ,  the  forces  experienced  by  a  ther- 
mal electron  when  other  thermal  electrons  are  present  will  be  very  nearly 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS 


391 


2.0 
1.8 
1.6 


>     1.4 
t     1.2 


\%y 


1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


0.4 


1.0 


1.2 


1.4 


1.6 


1.8       2.0       2.2       2.4 


2.6 


2.8        3.0        3.2       3.4       3.6       3.8        4.0 


Fig.  5  —  Curves  useful  in  finding  the  transverse  displacement  of  electron  tra- 
i  jectories  at  the  anode  of  Pierce-type  guns. 

i 

tlie  same  as  the  forces  involved  in  the  equations  above.  Thus  if  o-  <3C  J'e , 

(18)  may  be  taken  as  the  distribution,  in  a  transverse  plane,  of  those 
electrons  which  were  simultaneously  emitted  at  the  cathode  center. 
I  Furthermore,  the  nature  of  the  Pierce  gun  region  is  such  that  electrons 
emitted  from  any  other  point  on  the  cathode  will  be  similarly  distributed 
\\  ith  respect  to  the  path  of  an  electron  emitted  from  this  other  point 
w  ith  zero  transverse  velocity  (so  long  as  they  stay  within  the  confines 
,  of  the  ideal  beam).  Hines  and  Cutler  have  integrated  (15)  with  n^  =  0 
'  and  {dn/dt)c  =  1  to  give  g/  {fc\/kT/'2eV^  at  the  anode  as  a  function  of 
;  /",  /fo  .  This  relationship  is  included  here  in  graphical  form  as  Fig.  5. 
,      For  a  large  class  of  magnetically  shielded  Pierce-type  electron  guns, 
including  all  that  are  now  used  in  our  traveling  wave  tubes,  Ve/a  at  the 
anode  is  indeed  found  to  be  greater  than  5  (in  most  cases,  greater  than 
10)  so  that  evaluation  of  a  at  the  anode  of  such  guns  can  be  made  with 
considerable  accuracy  by  the  methods  outlined  above.  One  source  of 
error  lies  in  the  assumption  that  electrons  which  are  emitted  from  a 
point  at  the  cathode  edge  become  normally  distributed  about  the  cor- 
responding non-thermal  (no  transverse  velocity  of  emission)  electron's 
path,  and  with  the  same  standard  deviation  as  calculated  for  electrons 
from  the  cathode  center.  In  the  gun  region  where  Ve/a  tends  to  be  large 
this  difference  between  representative  a- values  for  the  peripheral  and 
central  parts  of  the  beam  is  unimportant,  but  it  must  be  re-examined  in 
tlie  drift  region  following  the  anode. 


392  THE   BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

We  have  already  investigated  the  region  of  the  anode  hole  in  some 
detail  in  Section  3  and  have  found  it  worth  while  to  modify  the  ideal 
Davisson  expression  for  focal  length  of  an  equivalent  anode  lens.  In 
particular,  let  us  define  a  quantity  F  by 

F  =  focal  length  =  Fd/T  (19) 

where  Fd  is  the  Davisson  focal  length.  Thus  T  represents  a  corrective 
factor  to  be  applied  to  Fd  to  give  a  more  accurate  value  for  the  focal 
length.  In  so  far  as  any  thin  lens  is  capable  of  describing  the  effects  of 
diverging  fields  in  the  anode  region,  we  may  then  use  the  appropriate 
optical  formulas  to  transfer  our  knowledge  of  the  electron  trajectories 
(calculated  in  the  anode  region  as  outlined  above)  to  the  start  of  the  drift 
region.  In  particular, 

-f  (20) 

where  {dr/dz)i  and  {dr/dz)^  are  the  slopes  of  the  path  just  before  and 
just  after  the  lens,  and  r  is  the  distance  from  the  axis  to  the  point  where 
the  ideal  path  crosses  the  lens  plane. 

B.  The  Drift  Region 

Although  Te/a-  was  found  to  be  large  at  the  anode  plane  for  most  guns 
of  interest,  this  ratio  often  shrinks  to  1  or  less  at  an  axial  distance  of 
only  a  few  beam  diameters  from  the  lens.  Therefore,  the  assumption  that 
electron  trajectories  may  be  found  by  using  the  space  charge  forces 
which  would  exist  in  the  absence  of  thermal  velocities  of  emission  (i.e., 
forces  consistant  with  the  universal  beam  spread  curve)  may  lead  to  very 
appreciable  error.  For  example,  if  ecjual  normal  (Gaussian)  distributions 
of  points  about  a  central  point  are  superposed  so  that  the  central  points 
are  equally  dense  throughout  a  circle  of  radius  Te ,  and  if  the  standard  de- 
viation for  each  of  the  normal  distributions  is  cr  =  r^ ,  the  relative  density 
of  points  in  the  center  of  the  circle  is  only  about  39  per  cent  of  what  it 
would  be  Avith  a  <  (re/5). 

In  order  to  minimize  errors  of  this  type  we  have  modified  the  Hines- 
Cutler  treatment  of  the  drift  space  in  two  ways:  (1)  The  forces  influenc- 
ing the  trajectories  of  the  non- thermal  electrons  are  calculated  from  a 
progressive  estimation  of  the  actual  space  charge  configuration  as  modi- 
fied by  the  presence  of  thermal  electrons.  (2)  Some  account  is  taken  of 
the  fact  that,  as  the  space  charge  density  in  the  beam  becomes  less  uni- 
form as  a  function  of  radius,  the  spread  of  electrons  near  the  center  of 
the  beam  increases  more  rapidly  than  does  the  corresponding  spread 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS  393 

farther  out.  Since  item  (1)  is  influenced  by  item  (2),  the  specific  as- 
sumptions involved  in  the  latter  case  will  be  treated  first. 

When  current  density  is  uniform  across  the  beam  and  its  cross  section 
changes  slowly  with  distance,  considerations  of  the  type  outlined  above 
for  the  gun  region  show  that  those  thermal  electrons  which  remain 
within  the  beam  will  continue  to  have  a  Gaussian  distribution  with  re- 
spect to  a  non-thermal  electron  emitted  from  the  same  cathode  point. 
When  current  density  is  not  uniform  over  the  cross  section,  we  would 
still  like  to  preserve  the  mathematical  simplicity  of  obtaining  the  current 
density  as  a  function  of  beam  radius  merely  by  superposing  Gaussian 
distributions  which  can  be  associated  with  each  non-thermal  electron. 
To  lessen  the  error  involved  in  this  simplified  approach,  we  will  arrive 
at  a  value  for  the  standard  deviation,  a  (which  specifies  the  Gaussian 
distribution),  in  a  rather  special  way.  In  particular,  a  at  any  axial  po- 
sition, z,  will  be  taken  as  the  radial  coordinate  of  an  electron  emitted 
from  the  center  of  the  cathode  with  a  transverse  velocity  of  emission 
given  by, 


ve  =  y- 


—  (21) 

m 


It  is  clear  from  (17)  that  for  such  an  electron,  r  =  o-  in  the  gun  region. 
From  (18),  the  fraction  of  the  electrons  from  a  common  point  on  the 
cathode  which  will  have  r  ^  a  in  the  gun  region  is 


2 


fraction  =    [   e'^'-'"-''^  d  ^=  I  -  e'"'  =  0.393  (22) 

If  re  denotes  the  radial  position  of  the  outermost  non-thermal  electron 
and  if  0-  >  /■,, ,  the  "a--electron"  will  be  moving  in  a  region  where  the 
space  charge  density  is  significantly  lower  than  at  the  axis.  We  could, 
of  course,  have  followed  the  path  of  an  electron  with  initial  velocity 
equal  to  say  0.1  or  10  times  that  given  in  (21)  and  called  the  correspond- 
nig  radius  O.lcr  or  lOo-.  The  reason  for  preferring  (21)  is  that  about  0.4 
or  nearly  half  of  the  thermal  electrons  emitted  from  a  common  cathode 
point  will  have  wandered  a  distance  less  than  a  from  the  path  of  a  non- 
thermal electron  emitted  from  the  same  cathode  point,  while  other 
thermal  electrons  will  ha\'e  wandered  farther  from  this  path;  conse- 
quently, the  current  density  in  the  region  of  the  o--electron  is  expected 
to  be  a  reasonable  average  on  which  beam  spreading  due  to  thermal 
\elocities  may  be  based.  With  this  understanding  of  how  a  is  to  be  cal- 
culated, we  can  proceed  to  the  calculation  of  non-thermal  electron 
trajectories  as  suggested  in  item  (1). 


394  THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

The  non-thermal  paths  remain  essentially  laminar,  and  with  r^  de- 
noting the  radial  coordinate  of  the  outermost  non-thermal  electron,  we 
will  make  little  error  in  assuming  that  the  current  density  of  non-ther- 
mal electrons  is  constant  for  r  <  Ve .  Consequently,  if  equal  numbers  of 
thermal  electrons  are  assumed  to  be  normally  distributed  about  the  cor- 
responding non-thermal  paths,  the  longitudinal  current  density  as  a 
function  of  radius  can  be  found  in  a  straightforward  way  by  using  (18). 
The  result  is 

J    ^  ^_(..,,..)   n"  R  ^-(«^/2.^)^^  frR\  ^  /R\  ^23) 

Jd  Jo        a  \a^/      \(t/ 

where  /o  is  the  zero  order  modified  Bessel  function  and  the  total  current 
is  Id  =  TTVe  Jd  '  Equation  (23)  was  integrated  to  give  a  plot  of  Jr/Jo 
versus  r/a,  with  re/a  as  a  parameter  and  is  given  as  Fig.  6  in  Reference 
6.  It  is  reproduced  here  as  Fig.  6.  Since  the  only  forces  acting  on  elec- 
trons in  the  drift  region  are  due  to  space  charge,  we  may  write  the  equa- 
tion of  motion  as 

where  Er  is  the  radial  electrical  field  acting  on  an  electron  with  radial 
coordinate  r.  Since  the  beam  is  long  and  narrow,  all  electric  lines  of  force 
may  be  considered  to  leave  the  beam  radially  so  that  Er  is  simpl}^  ob- 
tained from  Gauss'  law.  Equation  (24)  therefore  becomes 

-—   =  --^—  /    2irp  dr  =  -— ! —  /         ■  Iirr  dr 

dt^        zireor  Jo  Zireor  Jo    \/2t]V a. 


(25) 
2irenr       Jo 


27reor 

From  (23)  we  note  that  the  fraction  of  the  total  current  within  any 
radius  depends  only  on  fe/o-  and  j'/ct: 


:il 


dr 


^  /    J0')2irr  ar  /    xo     ,/o 

r  =  - =  H-)  f 

'-       r.J(r)2.rdr         ^''''°  (2«)  ' 

Jo 


■•r  I  a 

C 


'^dV^]^Fr-j- 

\(X    a  t 


\ 


BEAM  FORMATION  WITH  ELECTRON  GUNS 


395 


Fig.  6  —  Curves  showing  the  current  density  variation  with  radius  in  a  beam 
I  which  has  been  dispersed  by  thermal  velocities.  Here  r«  is  the  nominal  beam  radius, 
I    r  is  the  radius  variable,  and  <t  is  the  standard  deviation  defined  in  equation  17. 

A  family  of  curves  with  this  ratio,  Fr ,  as  parameter  has  been  reproduced 
:   from  the  Hines-Cutler  paper  and  appears  here  as  Fig.  7.  Using  this  no- 
tation, (25)  becomes 


dV  ^  Vr,/{2V.)  j^  Fr 
di^  27reo  r 


or 


d  r 
dz^ 


jn_         lo         Fr^         Fr 

27r€0  (27,7a)3/2    J.  J. 


(27) 


where  we  have  made  use  of  the  dc  electron  drift  velocity  to  make  dis- 
tance the  independent  variable  instead  of  time,  and  have  defined  a 
quantity  K  which  is  proportional  to  gun  perveance.  We  can  now  apply 
(27)  to  the  motion  of  both  the  outer  (edge)  non-thermal  electron  and 
the  cr-electron.  From  (26)  we  see  that  Fr,  and  Fg  depend  only  on  re/a] 


396  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

12 


11 


10 


a 

LLI 
< 

u 

B    1 

z 

z 
o 

< 


o     ^ 


/^ 

,/;^ 

^ 

// 

P> 

^ 

Fr  = 

0.995/ 

^ 

^ 

/^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

/^ 

/ 

rz 

^ 

/       >> 

/ 

^ 

z:^ 

^ 

:^ 

/ 

y. 

^ 

/y 

'A 

%: 

^ 

;^ 

^ 

Xy 

'^. 

^^ 

^^ 

^^ 

w 

i^ 

/^ 

oao^ 

^ 

1^ 

^- 

oo^ 

= 

^^ 

10 


re/0- 


Fig.  7  —  Curves  showing  the  fraction,  Fr  ,  of  the  total  beam  current  to  be  found 
within  any  given  radius  in  a  beam  dispersed  by  thermal  velocities  as  in  Fig.  6. 

consequently  the  continuous  solution  for  r^  and  r„  (=  a)  as  one  moves 
axially  along  the  drifting  beam  involves  the  simultaneous  solution  of  two 
equations : 


(fve 

d~a 
d^ 


KFr./re 
KFJa 


(28) 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS 


397 


0.36 
0.32 
0.28 
0.24 

0.16 
0.12 
0.08 
0.04 
0 

\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

V. 

--- 

— 

■ 

8 


10 


12 


14 


16 


I  Fig.  8  —  A  curve  showing  the  effect  of  a  quantity  related  to  the  space  charge 
•  force  (in  the  drift  region)  on  a  thermal  electron  with  standard  deviation  a.  (See 
'equation  28.) 


which  are  related  by  the  mutual  dependence  of  Fr^  and  Fa  on  re/a.  F„ 
and  Frjve  are  plotted  in  Figs.  8  and  9. 

We  may  summarize  the  treatment  of  the  drift  region,  then,  as  follows: 
1  (a)  The  input  values  of  r^  and  rgJ  at  the  entrance  to  the  anode  lens 
jare  obtained  from  the  Pierce  gun  parameters  r^  and  6,  while  the  value 
of  a  and  aJ  at  the  lens  entrance  can  be  obtained  as  mentioned  above 
by  integrating  (15)  from  the  cathode,  where  Mc  =  0  and  (dfx/dt)c  =  1, 
to  the  anode  plane.  (The  minus  subscripts  on  r'  and  a'  indicate  that 
these  slopes  are  being  evaluated  on  the  gun  side  of  the  lens;  a  plus  sub- 
script will  be  used  to  indicate  evaluation  on  the  drift  region  side  of  the 
lens.)  The  values  of  Ve  and  a  on  leaving  the  lens  will  of  course  be  their 
entrance  values  in  the  drift  region,  and  the  effect  of  the  lens  on  r/  and 
a'  is  simply  found  in  terms  of  the  anode  lens  correction  factor  T  by  use 
of  (20).  The  value  of  a  at  the  anode  can  be  obtained  from  (17)  if  n  is 
known  there.  In  this  regard,  (15)  can  be  integrated  once  to  give 


=  1_/M       dt 

"  "  r\dt)c{r,/r,y 


(29) 


398 


THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


LL 


0.9 


0.8 


0.7 


0.6 


0.5 


0.4 


0.3 


0.2 


0.1 


. — 

— 

■-^ 

\ 

X 

^ 

\ 

I 

/ 

\ 

\    J 

\  / 

/ 

A 
7  \ 

/   \ 
/     \ 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

f.,/(reA) 

\ 
\ 
\ 

s 

^, 

> 

"-. 

'"-.. 

^-*^^ 

■•—.^ 

1/ 
1 

0.38 


0.36 


0.34 


0.32 


0.30 


0.28 


0.26 


0.24 


0.22 


0.20 


0.18      1? 


0.1  6 


0.14 


0.12 


0.10 


0.08 


0.06 


0.04 


0.02 


6  7  8  9 


10 


11  12  13 


14 


Fig.  9  —  Showing  quantities  related  to  the  effect  of  the  space  charge  force  in 
the  drift  region  on  the  outermost  non-thermal  electron.  (See  equation  28.) 


i 


We  can  now  substitute  for  transit  time  in  terms  of  distance  and  Lang- 
muir's  well  known  potential  function/^  —a.  The  value  of  this  parameter, 
for  the  case  of  spherical  cathode-anode  geometry  in  which  we  are  in- 
terested, depends  only  on  the  ratio  fe/f  which  is  equal  to  Vc/rg .  (Because 
of  their  frerjuent  use  in  gun  design,  certain  functions  of  —a  are  included 
here  as  Table  I.)  In  terms  of  —a,  then,  the  potential  in  the  gun  region 


BEAM   FORMATION   WITH   ELECTRON   GUNS 


399 


Fable  I 


Table  of  Functions  of  —a  Often  Used  in  Electron 
Gun  Design 


fc/f 

(-«)2 

(-  a)V3 

(-  a)2/3 

difc/r) 

1.0 

0.0000 

0.0000 

0.0000 

0.0000 

1.025 

0.0006 

0.0074 

1.05 

0.0024 

0.0179 

0.134 

1.075 

0.0052 

0.0306 

0.173 

1.10 

0.0096 

0.0452 

0.212 

1.392 

0.590 

1.15 

0.0213 

0.0768 

0.277 

1.20 

0.0372 

0.1114 

0.334 

1.767 

0.716 

1.25 

0.0571 

0.1483 

0.385 

1.30 

0.0809 

0.1870 

0.432 

2.031 

0.790 

1.35 

0.1084 

0.2273 

0.476 

1.40 

0.1396 

0.2691 

0.519 

2.243 

0.874 

1.45 

0.1740 

0.3117 

0.558 

1.50 

0.2118 

0.3553 

0.596 

2.423 

0.886 

1.60 

0.2968 

0.4450 

0.667 

2.583 

0.915 

1.70 

0.394 

0.5374 

0.733 

2.725 

0.939 

1.80 

0.502 

0.6316 

0.795 

2.855 

0.954 

1.90 

0.621 

0.7279 

0.853 

2.975 

0.970 

2.00 

0.750 

0.8255 

0.908 

3.087 

0.982 

2.10 

0.888 

0.9239 

0.961 

3.192 

0.993 

2.20 

1.036 

1.024 

1.012 

3.292 

1.003 

2.30 

1.193 

1.125 

1.061 

3.388 

1.012 

2.40 

1.358 

1.226 

1.107 

3.481 

1.020 

2.50 

1.531 

1.328 

1.152 

3.570 

1.028 

2.60 

1.712 

1.431 

1.196 

3.655 

1.034 

2.70 

1.901 

1.535 

1.239 

3.738 

1.039 

2.80 

2.098 

1.639 

1.280 

3.817 

1.044 

2.90 

2.302 

1.743 

1.320 

3.894 

1.048 

3.00 

2.512 

1.848 

1.359 

3.968 

1.052 

3.1 

2.729 

1.953 

1.397 

4.040 

1.056 

3.2 

2.954 

2.059 

1.435 

4.111 

1.059 

3.3 

3.185 

2.164 

1.471 

4.180 

1.062 

3.4 

3.421 

2.270 

1.507 

4.247 

1.064 

3.5 

3.664 

2.376 

1.541 

4.315 

1.066 

3.6 

3.913 

2.483 

1.576 

4.377 

1.068 

3.7 

4.168 

2.590 

1.609 

4.441 

1.070 

3.8 

4.429 

2.697 

1.642 

4.501 

1.072 

3.9 

4.696 

2.804 

1.674 

4.563 

1.074 

4.0 

4.968 

2.912 

1.706 

4.621 

1.076 

400 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


may  be  written 


df  df      i-aaY'^ 


dt 


'V2nV  a/2;^  {-a) 


2/3 


(30) 
(31) 

(32) 


so  that  upon  substitution  from  (29)  and  (31),  (17)  becomes 
Fig.  5,  which  has  been  referred  to  above,  shows 

O-a      .   /2eVa 
'fcV     'kf- 

as  a  function  of  {fc/fa)  as  obtained  from  (32),  and  allows  o-„  to  be  de- 
termined easily.  Using  (20),  the  value  of  re+'  is  given  by 


/  Tea     , 


F 


-,.=  -^^_,.  =  ,/_g-l)     (33) 


where  dg  is  the  half-angle  of  the  cathode  (and  hence  the  initial  angle 
which  the  path  of  a  non-thermal  edge  electron  makes  with  the  axis). 
We  may  write  for  1/Fd 

1         V  fe  /d(-aY"\ 


Fo       4F       4(-aa)^/VV\rf(fc/r-)  7a 


(34) 


In  Fig.  10  we  plot  —falFr,  as  a  function  of  fjfa  for  easy  evaluation  of 
re+'  in  (33).  Taking  the  first  derivative  of  (32)  with  respect  to  ^,  we  ob- 
tain an  expression  for  aJ.  Using  this  in  conjunction  with  (20)  and  (34) 
we  find 


0-+     = 


Y  (r<^i  +  C2) 


I 


(35) 


where 


cira 


d{fc/f) 


/3 


and 


^-i/f.  ft -(-''"/ 


(-a)2/3_ 


! 


Ci  and  C2  are  plotted  as  functions  of  fc/fa  in  Fig.  11. 

(b)  After  choosing  a  specific  value  for  r  and  evaluating  K  =   rj/c/  . 


BEAM  FORMATION  WITH  ELECTRON  GUNS 


401 


Q 

LL 


lU 


I.O 

1.4 
1.2 
1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

~~~- 

■--- 

1.0        12  1.4        1.6         1.8        2.0       2.2       2.4       2.6        2.8       3.0       3.2       3.4        3.6       3.8        40 

rcAa 

Fig.  10  —  Curve  used  in  finding  ?•«+',  the  direction  of  a  nonthermal  edge  elec- 
tron as  it  enters  the  drift  region.  (See  equation  33.) 

(27r€o(277 Fa)  ''),  (28)  is  integrated  numerically  using  the  BTL  analog  com- 
puter to  obtain  a  and  r^  as  functions  of  axial  distance  along  the  beam, 
(c)  Knowing  a  and  Ve ,  other  beam  parameters  such  as  current  dis- 
tribution and  the  radius  of  the  circle  which  would  encompass  a  given 
percentage  of  the  total  current  can  be  found  from  Figs.  6  and  7. 


X 

tvi 

U 


20 

15 

10 

5 

0 

-5 

-10 

-15 

-20 

-25 

-30 


POLYNOMIAL   REPRESENTATION 
(ACCURATE    WITHIN    2°/o) 

-OR 

c,  & 

C2 

,'''' 

C,  =  4.13    fc/ra  +  2.67 

C2  =  0.635(r^/faf-13.56  rc/fa  +  19-33 

,  ,-' 

.' ' 

.-''' 

.'-' 

,'-' 

\ 

^^ 

-' 

^^-' 

< 

^v 

■^ 

X 

,.-' 

^** 

,^-' 

''H 

'^ 

"^ 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

\> 

^ 

20 
18 
16 
14 

12 

rO 
O 

10    X 

(J 

8 


2 

0 
10         1.2        1.4        1.6         1.8       2.0       2.2       2.4       2.6       2.8       3.0       3.2       3.4       3.6       3.8       4.0 

tc/fa 


Fig.  11  —  Curves  used  in  evaluating  o-+',  the  slope  of  the  trajectory  of  a  thermal 
electron  with  standard  deviation  a  as  it  enters  the  drift  region.  (See  equation  35.) 


402  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

5.    NUMERICAL   DATA    FOR   ELECTRON   GUN   AND    BEAM   DESIGN 

A.  Choice  of  Variables 

Except  for  a  scaling  parameter,  the  electrical  characteristics  of  an 
ideal  Pierce  electron  gun  are  completely  determined  when  three  param- 
eters are  specified,  e.g.,  fc/fa  ,  perveance,  and  Va/T.  Also,  for  the  simp- 
lest case  r  is  equal  to  1  so  that  (since  K  depends  only  on  gun  perveance) 
in  this  case  no  additional  parameter  is  needed.  This  implies  that  nor- 
malized values  of  ?-/,  a,  a',  and  K  at  the  drift  side  of  the  anode  lens  are 
not  independent.  If,  however,  the  value  of  F  at  the  anode  lens  is  taken 
as  an  additional  variable,  four  parameters  plus  simple  scaling  are  re- 
quired before  complete  predictions  of  beam  characteristics  can  be  made. 
In  assembling  analog  computer  data  which  would  adequately  cover 
values  of  fc/fa  ,  perveance,  and  Va/T  which  are  likely  to  be  of  interest 
to  us  in  designing  future  guns,  we  chose  to  present  the  major  part  of 
our  data  with  T  fixed  at  1.1.  This  has  seemed  to  be  a  rather  typical  value 
for  r,  and  by  choosing  a  specific  value  we  decrease  the  total  number  of 
significant  variables  from  4  to  3.  (The  effect  of  variations  in  T  on  the 
minimum  radius  which  contains  95  per  cent  of  the  beam  is,  however, 
included  in  Fig.  16  for  particular  values  of  Va/T  and  perveance.)  Al- 
though the  boundary  conditions  for  our  mathematical  description  of  the 
beam  in  a  drift  space  are  simplest  when  expressed  in  terms  of  Vg ,  r/,  a 
and  ct',  we  have  attempted  to  make  the  results  more  usable  by  express- 
ing all  derived  parameters  in  terms  of  fc/fa  ,  s/Va/T,  and  the  perveance, 
P. 

B.  Tabular  Data 

The  rather  extensive  data  obtained  from  the  analog  computer  for  the 
r  =  1.1  case  and  for  practical  ranges  in  perveance,  Ve/T,  and  fc/fa 
are  summarized  in  Tables  IIA  to  E  where  the  parameters  r^  and  a  which 
specify  the  beam  cross  section  are  given  as  functions  of  axial  distance 
from  the  anode  plane.  Some  feeling  for  the  decrease  in  accuracy  to  be 
expected  as  the  distance  from  the  anode  plane  increases  can  be  obtained 
by  reference  to  Section  6B  where  experiment  and  theory  are  compared 
over  a  range  of  this  axial  distance  parameter. 

C.  Graphical  Data,  Including  Design  Charts  and  Beam  Profdes 

In  typical  cases,  the  designer  of  Pierce  electron  guns  is  much  more 
concerned  with  the  beam  radius  at  the  axial  position  where  it  is  smallest 
(and  in  the  axial  position  of  this  minimum)  than  he  is  in  the  general 


BEAM    FORMATION    WITH    ELECTRON    GUNS  403 


jspreadiug  of  the  beam  with  distance.  This  is  true  because,  in  microwave 
beam  tubes,  the  beam  from  a  magnetically  shielded  Pierce  gun  normally 
enters  a  strong  axial  magnetic  field  near  a  point  where  the  radius  is  a 
minimum,  so  that  magnetic  focusing  forces  largely  determine  the  beam's 
subsequent  behavior.  The  analog  computer  data  has  therefore  been  re- 
processed to  stress  the  dependence  of  the  beam's  minimum  diameter  and 
the  corresponding  axial  position  of  the  minimum  on  the  basic  design 
iparameters  fdfa  ,  perveance,  and  s/Va/T.  As  a  first  step  in  this  direc- 
tion, the  radius,  rgs ,  of  a  circle  which  includes  95  per  cent  of  the  beam 

:  I  current  is  obtained  as  a  function  of  axial  position  along  the  beam.  Such 
idata  are  shown  graphically  in  Fig.  12.  Finally,  the  curves  of  Fig.  12  are 

.  lused  in  conjunction  with  the  tabular  data  to  obtain  the  "Design  Curves" 
of  Fig.  13  where  all  of  the  pertinent  information  relating  to  the  beam 
at  its  minimum  diameter  is  presented. 

\D.  Example  of  Gun  Design  Using  Design  Charts 

Assume  that  we  desire  an  electron  gun  with  the  following  properties : 
anode  voltage  Va  =  1,080  volts,  cathode  current  Ip  =  7.1  ma,  and  mini- 
mum beam  diameter  2(r95)min  =  0.015  inches.  Let  us  further  assume  a 
cathode  temperature  T  =  1080°  Kelvin,  an  available  cathode  emission 
density  of  190  ma  per  square  cm,  and  an  anode  lens  correction  factor 
of  r  =  1.1.  From  these  data  we  find  -x/Va/T  =  1.0,  perveance  P  = 
0.2  X  10"^  amps/(volts)^''"  and  (r95)min/''c  =  0.174.  Reference  to  the  de- 
sign chart,  Fig.  13,  now  gives  us  the  proper  value  for  fc/fa  :  using  the 
upper  set  of  curves  in  the  column  for  y/Va/T  =1.0  we  note  the  point 
of  intersection  between  the  horizontal  line  for  {rgr^^i^/rc  =  0.174  and 
the  perveance  line  P  =  0.2,  and  read  the  value  of  fc/fa  (=  2.8)  as  the 
corresponding  abscissa.  The  convergence  angle  of  the  gun,  de ,  is  now 
simply  determined  fi'om  the  equation^^ 

de  =  cos-^  {\  -  t|^  X  10^)  (37) 

{Qe  is  found  to  be  13.7°  in  this  example)  and  the  potential  distribution 
in  the  region  of  the  cathode  can  be  obtained  from  (30). 

When  this  point  has  been  reached,  the  gun  design  is  complete  except 
for  the  shapes  of  the  beam  forming  electrode  and  the  anode,  which  are 
determined  with  the  aid  of  an  electrolytic  tank  in  the  usual  way.  The 
radius  of  the  anode  hole  which  will  give  a  specified  transmission  can  be 
found  by  obtaining  (re/a)a  through  the  use  of  Fig.  5,  and  then  choosing 
the  anode  radius  from  Fig.  7.  In  practical  cases  where  (rf/a)a  >  3.0, 


^' 


O 


O 

z 
o 

I-H 

e 
o 

w 

o 

O 

CO 

a 

Q 
O 
12; 

< 


O 
> 

m 

IS 
< 


Q  o 


P 

a, 

o 
O 


o 

< 

o 

m 


PQ 


"5 

d 
II 

> 

1 

I-H                                                1 

II                               ■! ' 

o 

-1" 

bl>? 

^H  (M  lO  O  C35  O  M        C^  t^  C^        GO 
GOt^cOCDiOcOCOr^GO'Cl^COCO 
(M  C^l  C^l  C^)  'M  C^J  !M  C^l  C<l  (N  CO  CO  CO 

ooooooooooood 

ooooooooooo 

vib 

T-H  1-H  1—1  O  O  O  O  1"^  1"^  »~^  c^ 

1  i  1  II  1 

COiO^HOd-fiOiO         ^HCO-1"-f^H 

iooo^co»o^(MOt^coc;-t<co 

COIMtMi-HOOO^^CSMCO-* 

1  1  1  II  1  1 

''k" 

,— 1   1— 1   1— 1   T-H   1-H   M 

00?--HcDCOOOO-l'*COOOO'ti 

T-H    T-H    T-H    T-H    T-H    C^    O'l 

J.« 

(M        GO  GO  OO  (N  OO  CO  lO  »0        lO 

l0>0^'*-rt<l010C0t^G0Ort 

COCOCO':t<OCO<MOi^(MOCO<N 

t^t^r^t^ooGoooiT-HcoGOcooj 

C^C^iM(N!M(M(MC^COCOCO'+-rf' 

ooooooooooo o 

oc ooooooooooo 

."It, 

^      05C0C0OOOO      >oco 

GOiO^OOiOC^rt-tl^OO-liO 

(M         U3  ,-H  CO  lO  lO  (M  CO         CD  CO  t^ 

COOC0t^O'f--H--HCO'-HG0'*'Q0 

^Hi — ^r-HOOOOOO' — ^' — ^1 — 1 

1    II    M    1 

COCOC^i-h^OOOO^Ht-hiMOI 

J  1  1  1  1  1 

«|   a 

O(N^CD00O(M-*<£>Q0OC<) 

T— 1    1-H    T— t    T— 1    T-H    C^    C^l 

0(M^COGOOrt(N^cDO'*00 

t-Ht-Ht-Hi-H^05(MIM 

q 

b|=? 

O  IC  O  to  iO  lO  cr.  (M  C-j  t^  C^  C-j 
-f-fOiOcOt^QOOi— iiOOCS 

OCOI-^O-IOOt^         OOCSl         COUO 
I-  t^  l-^  CCi  O)  C~.  ^  C^  C^  f  1^  O  CD  CO 
!MCM(MC^llMO-1COCOCOCOCO-*-flO 

O OOOOOOOOOOO 

OOO OOOOOOOOOOO 

>,"|b 

lOOiOOOC^OOiOCOOt^-HtO 

coocooooioco.-H^-rooc2 

OiO(M                      t^COiCOC^tXCOl-- 

t^T— lCDT-HCDT-HCD^!MT-H-fCDT-HTt< 

^,-,^^000  0  0000 

1  1  1  1 

COCOC^(M--HrtOOOOOO^^ 

1  1  1  1  1 

"k= 

OiM'Tt<CCiOOO(M'*COO'#CD 
^  --1  ^  --KM  Ol  (N 

O(NTt<CO00O(MC0^C000O'*Q0 

t-Ht-Ht-Ht-Ht-Ht-hC<1(MC^ 

bl>? 

t^iOOOOt— iiOOO>000 
C^-t^CDGOOiM-t'l^OiMCOO 

■*CO^(MCOGO^'fiM'*COO'-H 
COt^GOClO'-HCO-flOt^C^IOOCD 
(M(M(MC^C0C0C0COC0C0-*-rt-»O 

OOOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOOOO 

-"lb 

OGOlO-*rtlcOClC^OOlO(M 
O^'^IMOOC'OiOCOC^^ 

co<Mr^coao^QOcoocooocoo 

I--  CO  ^X'  -f  O  t^  CO  C^  O  GO  CO  O  iM 
COCO(M<M(Mi-ht-h,-ht-iOOOO 

1 

^,__,-H^OOOOOOO 

"U» 

0(M't"X)G0005^COOOOiM 

T— 1    T— t    T— 1    1 1    T-H    C^    C^ 

O<MTtHcD00OiMC0'rf<cDO'*G0 

t-Ht-Ht-Hi-Ht-H(>JCM(M 

q 

bk" 

CO  00  1-H  CO  O  rH           C5  rH 

-H04^k0t^0         coo 
lOiCiOiCiOO        cOt^ 

dddodo      dd 

COOiO(NOOOOOOCi(NcOCO(M 

lOt^GOO^COiCt^OiOT-HGO 

<MC^(Mcococococo-r^»cio 

K"lb 

iOcOOOt^O'*iOOOUO 

OOOt^COCOTfCOT-HO 

t-hioOOIi-hiOt— iOt-hO^iO 

C5»0(MGOcoco^ait^-*T-HO 
cococo(M(Noaoq.-Hi-HT-H,-HO 

«l « 

0^(MCO-t<COGOO<M 

1-H   1 — ( 

OCa'*COOOOiMTt<cDO'*<00 
,-H  ,_,  ,_,  ^  (M  CKj  C^l 

II 

bk« 

>0  iCCi  005 

O5C0  t^c^  CO 

Tfi  lO  lO  CO  CO 

o  o  oo  o 

OOt^OOOC^OO<MOOiO(McOGO 
■^COCXl^COiOCOOCOOiOGO 
O^C^OJCOCOCOCO-^'^'^lOiO 

."lb 

(M  O  CD  lOiO 
O  05  t^  CO  lO 

C<l  T-H  1-H  T-H  T-H 

COTti00kCCD00C0O:h-CDO5(M 

oi>-*iMOoot^iOTt<oaoo 

^COCOCOCO(N(MC^C<I(N<M<M 

«|w» 

0<M  -^CDOO 

OCq-^cOOOOCI-^cDOTttCD 

^  1-H  T-H  r-H(M  (N  C^ 

404 


o 

(N 


i-i(NOiOOt^iO'-<>0 

ooooooooooo 

00        iC  O  (M  O  O  lO  lO  lO  o 
OlMOCOrCOCOiMiMGOCO 

1  1  1  1  1  1  1 

rt  ^  ^  .— 1  C^5  C^l  (M 

00>OO00^^(MOiOC;»O-f 

dooooooooooo 

lO                                 lO  O  (M  O  lO  IC 

1  1  1  1  1  1  1 

T-lrHi-l.-H,-l(N(M(MCO 

lOQOCOOCiOC^lC^COiO'— 10?         OJ 

I-Hi— I.— Ir-Hr-Hi— It— I,— IC^CO-^IOCO 

dooooooooooo o 

O         COOOCOOCOCiOOt-^COt^ 
Tt<  CO  IM  -*  O  «3  CO  O  1^  IM  lO  t^  00 

r^^ccoi— i^^oooO' — ^1 — ^1 — ^^H 

I  I  I  I  I 


O^OClMCOTt^iOcOO'^COiMCO 

1— ii— ii— irHi— itNoac^coco 

INO— <000(MO(NO'*COC^ 
CO-^iOCOOOO^COCiCOiOiO 

,-ii-irtT-Hrt^c^c^c^co-r'O 

OOOOOOOOOOOO 

t^i^asrHt-c^cioooiOGOrt 

lO  t^  rt  00  CO  t^  O-l  C-.'  CO  O  --H  CO 

I>»C^<M(M.-i.-iOOOOO 

1  1 

O-^OOIM-^COOOO^OOC^O 
.-(.-irtrtC^ir^lMCOCO 

00(MCiO^O»C>O00t^-*OO 
(N-*»000OC0«5O'O^00CC>^ 
1-1.— iT-^,— (C^l(M(MCOCOTt<'*>OCO 

dodoooooooooo 

>— I  IC  "—I 

00-*C^(MiCO-tiOt^iCC004^ 

t^CCHCThlCOC^C^CSIrtrt^rtr-l 


O-rt<0C<McCiO^00(Mc0O-^C0 

i-Hi-io^c^c^coco^^^ 

'^iCOrtOOcOCOOiO-tiiO 
rHi-lT-(T-HC<IC^(MCOCOCO-* 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

"3  Tti  (M              1— 1  O  C^  (M  t-- 1— 1 

OC5'-i»00'X>COOOOcC>»0 

00<»COlO4OTt<^':fCOCOCO 

O-*i00(MCDO'<ti00(MCDO 
i-ii— iiM(MC<)COCOTti 


O 

fa 


fa 

o 
o 

fa 

o 
O 

O 
> 


fa 

o 
o 
;z 
<1 


1/3 

PL, 


^^ 

|x 

1—1 
go 
g     II 

CL, 

o 
O 

o 
< 


63 

o 

fa 
> 

fa 
IS  Ph 

fa 
o 

w. 


pq 


bi « 


;ib 


;ib 


b|  e 


«h 


^1  b 


wl  b 


d 


> 


I^OOiOOOOt^t^COCAiOC^O 

ot^cocoio»oiocc!r^cx:ic:o 

COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO-* 
OOOOOOOOOOOO 


(MC0i0iO'*i0c000«5OC0l^ 
iOOOO«5(MrtiOco^C:C^iO 

Csj^T-HOOOOi-ifMiMCOCO 
I      I      I      I      I      I      I 


0!M-1">OOt^CC'OiM-f»OCO 


OC^(M00(MC5iO>O-t<I^rtO-Ht^ 
OJOOCCOOOiCnO^HC^^cOCOCifMCO 
COCOCOCOCOCO'^^-r-f'+^-^'ClO 


OOOOOOOOOO! 


!  o  o  o 


COiOO»C>»C»0(M^Ht^M<0<MC10 
>OClC05C'COOC<liOt^O»C01C^'^ 

Cvj^,-HOOoddo^^^(N!N 

I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I 


oiM-^cor^oooiO^o^-^cooooj 


(M^^cooor^ot^ioocx) 

C«0C'C5O(M-^«5OC0t^(MCC) 
COC0C0^-*'*^iO»O>OCOCO 

dd dooooooooo 


O^COOOCOGCC^C<lt^O^OO 
^O»0OOrtrti0G0O<M-^ 

iMiM^^OOOOO^rtrt" 

I  I  I  I  I  I 


O(M-<*<cD00OC<lTt^c000O(M 
1— I  T— I  I— <  1— I  .— I  (N  (M 


iM^>O00iMC^C2t-^^HOO-^ 
t^GOOC^iOOO'— iiOO-^0»C 
COCO-t''^'^-^iOkOCOOt~-t~- 

oooooooooooo 


oioc^icor^t^ocococj-*!^ 

0(MCC-rOt-~iOiMOOC^CO 


(MC^rtrti-iOOOOOOO 


O(NTt^cC>00O(M'titr>00O(M 

.— (   T— I   ^H   r-l   ^H   C^   C^ 


COO^';D(M-*'CiiOiOO 
COC2(M>CO-.  COt^C^t^CO 

coco-^-^-^fiOioasot-- 
oooooooood 


lOI^-^tOlN'— iCOt^-^CO 

t^COOt^iOCO-— iC500I^ 


CaiMC^'— ii— ii— (1— lOOO 


OlM^O00O(M-*O00 


b|^ 

OOi^OOiOcOOOCO 
iO00COt^<Ml^C^00 
COCO-^^iOiCtOCO 

'6>  <~)  <Z!  <Z>  <6  <Z)  di  <S 

C^l  b 

lOt^iMCOiCIMOO 

OOiOCOi-iOiOOt-i© 

(MC^(MC<i.-i.-i.-(.-i 

"1^ 

O<N-*«500O(M'* 

1— )     T— 1     I— ( 

405 


Q 

O 

O 

PQ 


pq 


o 

II 

> 

O 
CM 

II 

E~i 

a 

> 

o 

''U" 

OOiCOOOiO(NOOiOiC<lOO 

o^i-^oi'^coocoaio^o-^i^io 

C2C5<35C3aCO^-*'GC'fOI^^OO 
O0000'-^^'^^(M(MCOCO 

oooooooooooo 

ooooooooooooo 

>?ib 

ooooooot^LOiooaiooiic 

>— iC^tMCOOIM'^OOCOOCM-^ 
Ot^-^fM^O^COCO-^-^iOiC 

1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1 

looooq— icooc-ieocc*^ 

1  1  1  1  1  1  1 

«k« 

. — ^  1 — ^  1— *  1 — 1  ^^ 

OlM'^'OCOt^OOOiM^cOCOO 

1 — ^  ^H  1-H  ^H  1 — ^  C^ 

bk« 

00(M^OCO^'#C^CDI^(MOGOt^ 
CTsOiOOO^Cq^OOCOCiiOOcO 
OOO^^'-^rt'— irt(N<MCO'+iTt< 

dddddddddddddd 

ooooooooooooo 

^ib 

»CeOiMr-iOOOO'-i(M(NC^CC 

1  1  1  1  1  1  1 

iO(M  lOiOOO  lOOO         lOOO        CO 
(NcOt-HCD-^^COOOiOOOOlMCO 

di>»o<M^oo^^(Mcicococo 

1  II  1  1  1  1  1 

"k« 

OOJ-^CDt^OOCyiOIMrfHcOGOO 

O<N-*CDt^Q00lO(N^CD00O(M 

T-H  1-H  1— 1  f— 1  1— 1  C^  CM 

q 

bU« 

c;  CT>  o  ^  c^)  CO  t-^  ^  CD  ^  r^  CO  c--' 

^1— iC^(MC^C<l(MCOCO-f<-rt<lCliO 

ddddddddddddd 

OiOO^OiO-*00-*OOCOCX)0 
OiOOO^^CMCOiOOiCO-^rt 
OOr-Hrtrt^rt^rtCM(MCO»Ct^ 

oddddddddooddd 

^1  b 

COcDOt^iOOO^O«5CO'*OCO 

c^^rtT-it^cocar^ocoiot^oo 

1  1  1  1  1  1  1 

oooooooc<iooooooco»oco 

-rtH(M(MOq';f<«5Cr-COOCOOTt<CDI^ 

dcocO'^iM'-HOodd'-i'-i.-i.-i 
1    1    M    1    1 

«1 « 

OCM-<*H«DG0C:Or-i(M-^cOO'*00 

.— 1.— 1,— 11— It— ((MCMCM 

bk' 

CDrtO(MOOOOCiCOOCOOlOO 
rtrtlMC^(MC^(MC^COCO^iOI^ 

coiOr-Hr^iocoi— i^HTtit^iot^Oi— 1 

C-,  OOOi— iCM'+iOCOOlOCMOOiO 

OOi— 11— li— I'-Hr-H,— l,-(,-HlM^lOI>. 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 

^1  b 

t^C2CO'fflt^iOC»-t<CO^OiO(M 
COTfCOGOi— IIOOJOOCO^COIO 

•ooot^coiccMCMr^ooiooO'— 1 

t^OiMCDCO^r-Ht^COOC'CMO'-HCM 

oo6i>iO'*co(M'-i^ododd 

III 

'O^COOliM'— ii— i^OOOOO 

1  1  1 

>'!>? 

O<M^CDGi0O^(M-tiOO^00 

0<M^tDOOOiMCO-*COO-*00(N 

.— (rHi— 1.— I^HC^CMCMCO 

q 

bl>? 

(M>OOC500t^OOO-f<t^»OCiOOO 
OOas-^^iMCO-tt^OliCCOtMCOCO 
.-ir-H(M(MiMC^O](M(MCO-t<»OcOt^ 

t— iiOCOt— lOC^iCOCO'^'COOO'— lie 
OOlO-HCMCO^CDt^O^t^COCMO 

00--l.-i-H,-H,-H,-l,-l,-^(M!MCO'+CO 

oooooooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOO o 

^1  b 

00  lO       CO  »0       OS  CO  ^  »0  O  Oi  o  t^ 
-^t^'-HOO'OCOOcOCOt^COOOJt^ 

lO'*-*iCOCOCOCO(M(Mrti— irtOO 

OO             CO  lO  »o  O  »OC0  o  o 
O-^T-iOOCOCDOiOi-HOOCMOt^iO 

^OOOt^cDiO-^-^COCOCMC^i-i^.— 1 
1— 1 

"1^° 

O(N'*tCiC0t^00O<MOO'*00(M 
i-H  — 1  rt  CM  (M  (M  CO 

OlM-ttOOOOIM^CDOOO^GOCMcO 

T-Hr-Hi— It— Ir-HCMCMC^COCO 

II 

1^ 

bk« 

iOCOCO-^(M-+'-t<^^^ 
^Hi— ii— ((MIMCOCO-^iiOiO 

OOCOCDQOOCOCOi»<X)-*COCCI^ 
OOOiO^COTtiiOOO.— IIOOCOIO 

OOi— IrH.— Ii-lrt,— (<M(M(MCOCO 

oooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOOOO 

^Ib 

(MC2O(Mt-i,-hc0O000^ 

t^co'-H<riC2i<Of^"tiTt< 

lOiOiO-^cOCOCOC^OlIM 

iCiO>CO»0(MO'CiOiO»C>CiO 

coO'-Hcot^o^oo.-icocMot^co 

--lOCSOOt^t^cOCO'OiC'*^^ 

T— 1    1—1 

"k"* 

O.-i(NTt<C0(MCDO^':0 
.-H  ,-(<N(N<M 

O(N-<H5O00O(NCDO-*C0(M-* 
1— l.-l.-l<MIM(MCOCO 

406 


d 

II 

o 

> 

O 

II 

a 

> 

o 

CO* 

II 

> 

o 

*>l^ 

^■^iCOO^OiOiOO 

^cococo^cc>o»o^ 
T— ti— It— irHi — ^^HC^^(^^co 

ooooooooo 

iMOOOO-HOiMlM'OOO 

t^coor^ooooc^cico 

OOOOOi-H^C^C-lCO 

oooooooooo 

^Ib 

Mill 

lO        lO              <M  lO  C5  lO 

loooo 

Oli-HO-^iOOiOiMOiCO^ 

eoooi-HOOiM-^-*»oio 

1  1  1  1  1  1 

COTtHOOO^CO^iC 

"1^ 

O(N-*-*'>i:i<r>G0O(M 

OfN-^M^iOCDOOOlM 

OCO'^-'J^iCiOOOOlM^ 

1-H  1-H  r-H 

re 

H^ 

00  QO  00  GCi  CI  (M  I^  Ol 

t-iOO00^'*(M00 
■*'*'rri'#0«COO 
^^^^(MOICO-^ 

d  d  d  d  d  d  d  d 

rt^i-H^iCOOOOiOt^iM 

t^t^t^r^ooo-*c^ooi05 
oooooi-Hi-Hc^icoco^ 

oooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

^Ib 

•Ot^-^iOOOOOOS 

iccc-— iiooor^eo 

1  1  1 

1-Ht^OlOiOCOOO''— 1 
t-^'rt^(Md'-i<M(MCO 

1  1  1  1 

00        >OiO 

iMcq'^.-Hc^oooicaiOi-H 

-^Ol^C^O^i-HIMiMfOCO 

1  1  1  1  1  1 

«l^ 

O(M^5O00O(M't< 

1-H   i-H   1— ( 

OIN^iOCOt^OOOiM'^CO 

1-H   1-H   1-H   1-H 

H2 

COQOiCOO^OOiOOO 
l^f^OOO'tiCsiO'^OO 

oooiooooor-Hococoo 

CO-*'^COt^OCOCOC<l'— 1.— 1 
1— i,-i^rtrt010)CO-t<iOcO 

050C<)i-H-^Oi^r-HlOlOi-H 

COt^t^OOOi-HOlOsOlOiM 
OOOOOi-Hi-HiMCOiO^D 

ooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

^1  b 

COIMIMiOOOOl^OOiO 
COiO-^-^COOiOQOt-h 

icoiocaiMtMr^cocoioo 
CMOooo—i'^'iMr^oiMTfi 

iCOt^OiO'*-rt<0000'H 

1  1  1  1  1 

I^lOlMOOOrH-HC^C^C^ 

1  1  1  1  1  1 

•^OiOIMOO^^i-HiMCq 

'^              1  1  1  1  1  1 

«1^ 

1 — ^   1 — 1   .— 1   ,-H 

O!M-tc0t^00O(M^O00 

I— t    T— (    T— 1    T-H    1— t 

OC^-^«3t^00O<M^O00 

1-H  1-H  r-H  1-H  r— < 

H.» 

COIMiC^OOOO'OO 

coooocor^csic«^(>i^ 

C0(MC0OiCt^02»0OOO 
CO^iOt^OiCOOt^t^t^OO 

.-H,— li-H,— lrtC^C^COTf<lO^ 

l^OiOCOiOOiOiCOiOOOiOO 
Ot^t^COO^COCOCOCOiOOOlM 
OOOOO^i-H(MCO-*iO«500 

oooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOOOO 

^ib 

t-QOOCOr-COOfM^CO 

O  lO  lOO  O  "OOI 

ocDcoiO'+iooooeoi-Hi-Hi-Hi-HfM 

COiMC^T-iOOOOOO 

1  1  1 

t^iC^iM^OOOOOO 

1  1  1  1 

iOi-HOO»OCO^OOOOOOO 

1  1  1  1 

«I2 

0(M'*<COOOO(M'*<CDOO 
t— 1  1 — I  1— 1  1 — 1  1 — I 

0<M^COOOO(M'*0000 

I— (  T-H  1— 1  1-H  1-H  C^ 

OC^'^OOOOCOtJhcCOOOC^M* 

i-Hi-Hi-Hi-Hi-HlMC^fM 

b|^ 

COOC^OQC'C.  COiOiO 

Ot^COiMlO-^QO^GOlQlO 
CjTfCOOOOCOCOO'Ot^C^ 
i-Hi— ii-Hi— (C<I(M(MC0C0'*O 

'O-t-OO-HiC'H^HiOOCD'OiC 
CD  I-^  OC'  C-.  O  i-H  CO  lO  t^  CO  -H  rH  CO 
OOOO^'-Hi-H.-Hrt(MC0'*>0 

oooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOOOO 

^1  b 

03C^O--tt^-*0iO00f- 

1000»0        lOiOOOlMO 

iOiCCO»OrtO^^OC<lt^'*'C^ 

COCO(MC^^^rtt-iOO 

t^COiO-^COC^lC^Mrti-Hrt 

i0iMOC0t--C0i0-*iC0C0C~^01C^ 

1 — ^   ^H    ^H 

-12 

OIM'^OOOOCO^CDOO 

T-H    T-H    I— t    T— (    T— ( 

O(N-^«D00O(M-*COO'* 

1-H  T-H  1-H  .— 1  IM  01 

OiMTtHCDOOOIM-^OO^OOC^ 

^,_l,.Hl-Hc^l^^c^^co 

II 

0 

M2 

t^OiOOlMOO^ 

'i^  Ci  CO  00  CO  c;  lO  -H 

(MC^COCO'^'^'CCO 
OOOOOOOO 

COiOOC<IO-*'+'CC>        OC' 

c<)  ^  CO  c;  ^  -^  r-  o  -*<  t^  <M 

^  rt  ^  rt  C^j  C^]  (>J  CO  CO  CO  -Tf 

COCO^COO-^OCD-^CO-^COOO 
COt^OOO^C^COiOt^O^COiO 

OOOO^i-Hi-Hi-Hi-Hr-HC^OllM 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOOOO 

^1  b 

O  lO  ^  t^  lO  CO  rt  Ci 
-*COCO<N<M(N(Mt-i 

1— lOi-HiOOtDCOOX'^iO 

iC  lO  »0        lO 

0'y:>'-Hoooo.-H»oocDco'-Hocr- 

oor^cDioio-^-^-^cococo 

!OCO(M00500000I--t^l:^OcO 

1-H  1 — 1  ^S  1-H 

"12 

OC^-^COOOOOlTfi 

OtM-^COOOOlM-'t'COOOO 

f-H  1— t  1-H  I-H  r— 1  (M 

OIM^COOOO<M-<*<COOOOC<I'* 

.-Hi-Hi-Hi-Hi-HIM(NC^ 

407 


• 

II 

U5 

d 

II 

> 

q 

l-H 

11 

s 

> 

o 

II 

E-.                     ! 

=3 

> 

q 

bk« 

<£>00iMCD'-hOC^JOOO 

oo:c3c;'0'-Hcococ2!N 

CO  r^  lO  X'  ^  CO  to  CO  00  o 

O  O  CI  Cj  Ol  lO  C  CO  t^  c^ 
^OOO^^'-H(M(NC0 

(MOXOcOOI^tOiOtC     1 
lOtO-f-fl^iMCD^CO^ 
O  O  OOO  T-H  l-H  (M  (NCO     ; 

o 

oooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOO     i 

g 

.rib 

Id              O  »0  lO  t^  X        X 
t^Xt^tOCi-^COCl^cO 

to 

tO-^-^COcDi-Ht^i-HCOiO 

o 

1  1  1  1  1  1 

C3COCOO^CO-+-fiOiO 

1  1  1  1  1  1 

C-.  COt^^C^^-HiOiOlO 

^^        1  1  1  1  II 

«k" 

Oi-HIMCO-^iOCOt^XO 

O  l-H  (M  CO -*  to  CD  t^  X  OJ 

o 
O 

i_J      CO 

bk« 

OiC(MCOO-HiOOOO 
O  CT.  CI  0-.  -H  CO  CO  O  -^  00 
C^4^rt^C^lC^(MCOC0CO 

OOOOOOOOOO 

OXcDCi-t'iO        >0(MX 

o  o  c;  o  o  l-H  >o  o  TO  c-j 

1-hOOO' — ^1 — ^i^^hC^cO 

C5XO(M<MCOOOrHC 

iO-t<-t<-ftocOOcO<>)Xi- 
OOOOOOr-Hrt(MiMr| 

OOOOOOOOOO 

ooooooooooq 

.?!  b 

icr^t'-c^ioootDio 

t^COC;iMCO^t^(McO 

lO        O  (M 

OiOXi-HXCOCiXt^i-H 

O  to  to        IOC" 

cocMXcoco-r^tocooi 
o^a.coT-HO(Neocoeoe<i 

CCl-H                             II       1       1       1 

lOCOC^OOi-HIMfMCOCO 

1  1  1  I  1  1 

Ot^^<MOO^(MCO'* 

1  1  1  1  1 

0-1 

"k« 

O^iMCO'^iCCOt^OOOl 

»o 

o 

Ot-hC^COCO-*iiOcOXi-h 

to                ! 

Oi-HC^icoco^iocor^xc 

r 

<    < 

r4 

bk« 

COOOOiCOOO»OiO 
00(>4CSlt^cOCDt^^ 
-— I'-HOlC^liMCO-t'iOI^ 

C-jCi^iC»0-+i^O 
OO^H^HfMcOiOI^ 

X  O  CO(M  --t<  CO 

'^  to  to  X  1^  CO  Ol  c^ 

OOOO^COtot^              ' 

<Zi  cii  <6  <6  d><6  cS  <=) 

Analog  Computer  Data  foe 
Perveance  =  0.4  X  10~* 

ooooooooo 

OOOOOOOO 

;?1  b 

OiOOiOOOiOiO^O 
>— iC^iOt^'— iCOl— i-:fCO 

iOCC'—iOOOi— '^-^i— 1 

1  1  1  1 

COCOC^iOcOOCO-* 

OCOCOOOi-Hi-Hi-H 

1  1  1  1 

o  o  to 

t^  to  t^  O  to  X  O  O                i 
O  (N  to  l-H  O  O  O  rt 

^^        1  1  II 

"k' 

OC^'*iOCOCOOiM-r 

l-H    l-H    l-H 

OiM-t<cOXOC<I^ 

l-H   l-H   T-H 

OOJ-rcOXOlM-* 

T-H  i-H  l-H                      1 

bk« 

OOOOOi-HOOiOO 

ooocor — tiict-^oo 

^(MC-llMCO'-t^iOt^OO 

ooooooooo 

■*  o  o  >o  iC  to 

OOi-HCOXt^O-*OX 

o^^rtrtC^^ior^x 

t^  o  to  O  X       to  to 
"TfiOtOl^OCOCOOt^tO'' 

ooooo^c^-t^toix: 

OOOOOOOOOO 

ooooooooooe 

.-"lb 

(MOOOfflt^OOfNiO 
(^S«5COC^'*Or-(COTt< 

<M  X  O  O  to 

t^C^lO^i-H^i-HOi-Hi-H 

to  O  O  lOC 

cor^coiMto(Mr^co-<ti-*^ 

iOCO(N^OOOOO 

1  1  1 

Ot^^lMi-HOOOOO 

1  1 

-H-t'cttooai-Hoooot 

(N   T-H 

"k« 

O(N^t000O<M'*O 

l-H   l-H   l-H   l-H 

OfN'^COXOiM^cOX 

l-H  l-H  T-H  l-H  l-H 

OfM^COXOC^Tt^cDXC 

l-H  T-H  l-H  T-H  T-H  C 

o 

q 

bk" 

'^OiMOOOiOOO 
i-H(M(M(MCO-:t-iOCOt^ 

ddddddddd 

(Mco-rr^c--OOC<iiOio 

O  O  C^)  -t  t--  C^  X  lO  -*  t^ 
O^i-Hrt^OJiMCO-fcO 

cOOOOCOOOiOiMOC 
-ftOcOI^X^-tt^iMtOT 
OOOOOi-Hi-Hi-HCv^CO' 

O  O  O  O  O  O'  o  o  o  o 

ooooooooooe 

p 
xn 

.-•1  b 

iOO»OiOOO^»Ot-< 
'*OC2'^cO(M05t-«5 

lo  -t-  c^  (m'  ^'  -h'  o  o  d 

X              "ti 

C~ji-<OiO-*c001^tO(N 

to                  oc 

X        to  to  (M  CO  CO  O  to  05t 

OXCO-rt^COC^C^i-li-Hi-H 

■-(l:^(MOit^tO-*COCO(Mt 

C<)   T-H   T-H 

«k» 

O(N^cDQ0O(M^C0 

1— t  r— 1  1 — \  r~< 

OlM^cOXO(NTt<COO 

T-H  T-H  T-H  l-H  C<l 

OfN-^COXOiM-^CDO- 

T-H  l-H  l-H  T-H  C^  C 

l-H 

>o 

II 

u 
1  K 

bk= 

CO  O  CO  ^  (M  (M  CO 
t^  (M  CO  05  GO  "O  iM 
^  C^  C^  CO  CO  -t<  »o 

<~>  <6i  ^  Q  Q  <6>  i^i 

XXC^OXOCOCOCOO 
XOCOtOXC^iOOCOX 

Or-Hrtrtr^C^CaC<ICOCO 

-^tM-^XiMXCOCOXO 
rhiOCOt^C20<M-^COa5 

OOOOOl-Hl-HT-H^l-H 

1^ 

OOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOO 

r1 

^1  b 

CI  ic  iM  l-H  cs  o  cr. 

CO  CO  O  ■*  O  'X  lO 
lO  ■<*<  CO  CO  CO  (N  (M 

-*COOCl<Mt^COOXCO 

OCiOiOt^(MCOcD        t^eo 

tn 

l-H 

(MX-^CO<Mi-h00005 

OJi-Ht-Hi-Hi-Hi-Ht-Ht-H 

"lv» 

O  (M  -t  COOO  O  (N 

T— t    T-H 

OC^'t'COXOiM'^cOX 

l-H  l-H  l-H  l-H  l-H 

OtM-^COXOC^l^cOXi 

T-H  T-H  T-H  l-H  l-H  ™ 

408 


• 

d 

II 

> 

o 

T-H 

II 

0 

> 

o 

II 

> 

q 

bk« 

^  OQ  C'  C-l  CO       -+  o  o 
iO-t'^~vuril-j—i<:0'—i 

COCNO'-H»CO<MO>0  0 
t^  I^  t^  t^  t^  00  ^  t^  (>)  00 

OOOOOOt-i,-i(M(M 

OOCOiO>OO^COiO»C 
COCOCOCOlOXi-*-— (00 
OOOOOO^C^Ol 

OOOOOOOOO 

oooooooooo 

OOOOOOOOO 

.!lb 

O  O                    lO 

C^^OC-.O-*'— il^iOO 

t^        t^  CD  1-1  05  i-H  CD  00 

lo  Tt<  r^  1-1  im'  CO  lO  lo  ic 

^^        11,11 

OCO(NOO(NCO'*>0 
1      II      1      1 

COl^^OOr-ico^iOCO 

1  1  1  1  1 

«I2 

OT-Hi-KNC^eOTtHiCiCD 

»0        (N  lOOOOO 
O.-irtiM(N(Ne0Tj<iCCD 

Oi-i^iMoqcO'^oco 

bl2 

COOiOiOOOOO^O 

CO  CO  ^         CO  lO         lO  »o 

t^t^l^OCiC^lcDCOi-^C 

OOOCCOr-Hr-lC^CO'* 

coco        cDi— i^Hi— icocOO 
COCO-^>OCiCO(Mi— i^M 
OOOOOi-HC^COrfiO 

OOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOO 

K-lb 

Qccoco-r>oocccor- 

^  lO  lO        00 

r^o-^ocot^'i^^ioco 

lOt^O-^t^i-iCOOi— iC-lCO 

COTfi^OOiMIMCOCO 

Mill 

COOOCOi— IOt— KNCOCOCO 

1    1    M    1    1 

t^CO^-IMOfNC^COCOCOCO 

^^          1  1  1  1  1  1 

«l^ 

Or-l(^^(^^|^^TflOcD^^ 

O'-i(M(MC0C0'*i0c0t^ 

0'-i(MC<icOCO'*iOCOt^OO 

p 

bl^ 

OOOO^iOiCiOOiC 
TtHi0c0Q0O«5Tt<C005 

1— IT-Hr-H,— I(NC^COIO;0 

O'-HIOIOO'— iO»CiiOOO»C 

r^t^t^oooc^ooO'— ICO 

OOOOi— i^OJC^'^iiOcO 

»C»Ol^(M        00  1-1  00  ira  (M  00 

COCOCO'rtHlOCOiOCOOiCOt^ 
OOOOOOi— IIMCOICCO 

OOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

w'lb 

10>0        O  O  iO<M         IC 
T— iCJOOC^COOiOO'— 1 

O              O                    C5  Ol  •— 1 
COiOCOOCOfMi— ilCCOt^OO 

>00        lOiCOO 
lOCDOOiMO        r-((McOT}H 

t^(MT-HOOT-Hr-H(M<M 

1  1  1  1  1 

'*iOiO(MOO'— i^i-Hi-Hi— 1 

1  1  1  1  1  1 

ooooocoi— lOi— i^^i— ii— (1— 1 

^^^          1  1  1  II 

«k« 

OlMOOeO-^iOcOQOOl 

O'-i(MC0C0TjHiCcDt^Q0a> 

OT-i(Ncoeo-*»OcDl:^ooc:i 

bk» 

itSCO        CD              OOCl 
C0»Ct^0:>'*O'X>00— 1 

1-Hl— IrHi— lC^C«5-*CDO 

1--CO        COOOOO 
CDt^O(Nt^^t^CO 

OOt— irti— iCOiCOO 

■<:t<COOC(NC5i-iC2iCCOOI^ 

COCOCO-*iTt<COOO-*(MCO'*i-l 

OOOOOOOi-i(MCO-*<t^ 

oooooooddodd 

OOOOOOOOO 

ooo ooooo 

^Ib 

MiO        lO'O'-iOOOiM 
"^Ot^iOt^C^KMiO^ 

t^'^O^'^OOOOO 

1  1  1 

OOOOO  CO 

OOOli— iCDb-OOi-H 

■^t^eoT-HOOOO 

1  1 

lO             O  O  00  o 
t^CDiOiC-^'^t^OcOiC'*-^ 

Oi-iioococoi-Hooood 

(M  (M  1-1  1—1 

«k 

O(MC0-*iCCD00O<N 
1— t  1— t 

O<N-*i0C000O(N 

I— 1  r-1 

Oi-i(MCO-*iOCDt-OOOiO(N 
1—1  1—) 

q 

bk= 

000(MOiOOO»C 

cc!Ooooro<ocooiTt< 

,-lrHrt(MC^(MCO-^CO 

1000»00^00  10  00 
COOOO"— iCOiOQOiO-^t^rt 
OO"— ii— 11— ii— It— '(MCO^CO 

OOOOOOOOO 

OOOOOOOOOOO 

K-ib 

t^OOCOt^C^COOlO 

TtH        CO  lO  IC  Ci  CO  CO  ^  Oi  !>■ 

t^iCTtHCO(M(Mi— ii— (1— 1 

»OOCD»C^COCO(M(M--H.-H 

«k" 

O(Me0TfU5cD00O(N 

0(N-*iOCOl^OOOlM-*iCO 

I— (  j-H  1— t  I— 1 

II 
e 

bk= 

lO  lO  kC  iC  o  o 
(M  CO  1-1  t-  -t^  cq 
.-1  .-1  0:i  C^  fO  Tt< 

o  ooooo 

(N  coo  O  lOiOCl 

CO  00  i-H  '^^  t^  rt  lO 

O  O  T-H  --1  ^  C^  (M 

d  c>  d  d  d  d  d 

^HC^cDi— lOlM'+'O 

CO^iCt^O^COCO 
OOOOOi— ii— ii— < 

OOOOOOOO 

K^b 

O        lO  1— 1  O  Oi 
O  i-H  O  <M  00  Tfi 

OO  CO  Tt<  Tj^  CO  CO 

O  rH  00  lO  CO  r-l  t^ 

CD  (N  d  00  t^  t- CO 
1—i  1—i 

.-l(MtXN-<*<(M^OO 

(m'  ^  d  i>^  "5  -^  CO  im' 

CO<Mi— (1— ii— ti— <i— ii— t 

"k« 

O  (M  Tt<CD0CiO 

I— ( 

O  iM  ""l^  CO  00  O  (M 

I-H  1—1 

OC^'^COOOOfNr}* 
1— 1  1— )  f— 1 

409 


o 


> 


J 

\ 

l\\ 

\ 

\^ 

\ 

y 

^ 

^V 

A 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

. 

'S 

^ 

1 

ii 

f 

10/  / 

1  "v  V 

^// 

r 

^0 

y 

# 

\s 

\\ 

\ 

\; 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

> 

A. 

N 

\ 

^ 

N 

M^ 

vl 

'^i      0 

i 

^ 

); 

i 

^ 

^ 

t? 


N 


<D 


V 

"^sVs 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s 

1 

^ 

i 

A 

<o\ 

A 

/' 

r 

\ 

». 

\. 

^ 

.\ 

\ 

<s 

^ 

\^ 

\ 

^ 

K 

1 

\ 

^ 

ii 

0 

I J 

m 

ii7 

^ 

y 

ti 


<D 


ID 

d 


*^ 

V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

I 

0 
II 

w 

\ 

^ 

\ 

V         > 

^ 

II 

01      lO 

oil      fVi,      ' 

m 

^ 

(\l 


>? 


t>J 


o 


CO 

6 


d 


5_0l  X  SOO=d 


o   o 


(\J 

00 

'- 

0 

_0l 

X 

10 

= 

d 


410 


\ 

\ 

\ 

x^ 

\ 

N 

^^ 

\ 

""''^ 

'^ 

\ 

V/ 

^ 

^ 

U 

^ 

/ 

V 

\, 

-^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

l1 

Vv 

"^^^^\" 

fe 

o>  = 

^«^^-"~. 

'^^ 

k 

^ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

^\ 

t^ 

.-^ 

\- 

°^ 

^ 

^ 

\  / 

^ 

\ 

W 

^ 

V 

\v. 

"0^ 

'■^ 

3 

k^ 

V 

^ 

^ 

0-^ 

Ij^ 

M^ 

Jj 

w 

^ 

^ 

\J 

^ 

^r^^ 

^ 

\ 

vs; 

^. 

\       "A 

<r)l 
1  "^'/ 

t-V 

\V  \ 

A 

k 

'<'> 

o 


<\J 


CO 

^ 

o    o 

o 

o 

(\J 


OO 

d 


d 


CO 

&-; 

Q 

t- 

CO 

> 

T) 

fl 

'J 

c3 

N 

I5~ 

1^ 

o 
(\J 

ST 

^^ — ' 

a) 

a 

0) 

> 

Lh 

«1) 

OJ 

a 

a 

•  p— 1 

r^ 

CO 

o 

-t^ 

rt 

Si 

-il 

^ 

!> 

^ 

o 

%-. 

OJ 

o 

^3 

<D 

O 

<A 

C 

3 

^ 

tJU 

OJ 

o 

;_ 

5<-l 

O 
CM 

a; 

N 


^ 

s^ 

^ 

^ 

(O 

o 

'^ 

9_0l  X  2-0  =  d 


9.01  X  fO  =  d 


C 


CO 
CO 

a; 
> 

a 

o 

<D 

>o 

CO 

.2 


O 

-C 

CO 
CO 

> 

3 
o 


fci) 

•  r-t 
fa 


411 


q 


> 


> 


\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

^ 

\ 

. 

^-- 

t^ 

^ 

J^ 

IJ?£!\ 

I 

^ 

tsl 


> 


V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\"^ 

^ 

L 

^^ 

\ 

^ 

^V. 

K 

^ 

C> 

■-  > 

^ 

•i 

\& 

^ 

^N 

K\ 

■^ 

^ 

d 
II 
1— 

^ 

^ 

V 

s. 

> 

^ 

^ 

1^ 

\  y  ~A^ 

K 

^ 

> 

o 


N  CO 

9_01X  90:=c) 

412 


d 


|5- 


o 
d 
> 


C3 
O 
•  i-t 

03 

c3 
> 


o 

OS 

c 
a 

faC 


o 

u 

0) 

o 

o 

o3 


3 
CO 

> 

C 
o 

o3 


o3 


O 

-a 

EC 

a> 
> 

O 


O 

.— I 
bb 


BEAM   FORMATION   WITH   ELECTRON   GUNS  413 

we  find  less  than  1  per  cent  anode  interception  if 

anode  hole  radius  =  0.93  r^a  +  2o-a  (38) 

Additional  information  about  the  axial  position  of  (r95)min  and  the  cur- 
rent density  distribution  in  the  corresponding  transverse  plane  is  con- 
tained in  Fig.  13.  The  second  set  of  curves  in  the  \/Va/T  =  1  column 
gives  Zm\n/Tc  —  2.42  for  this  example,  so  that  we  would  predict 

Zmin  =  distance  from  anode  to  (r95)inin  =  0.104'' 

The  remaining  3''^  and  4*^^  sets  of  curves  in  the  ■\/Va/T  =  1  column 
allow  us  to  find  o-  and  re/a-  at  ^min  .  In  particular  we  obtain  a  =  0.0029" 
and  I'e/o  =  0.8,  and  use  Fig.  6  to  give  the  current  density  distribution  at 
2min  .*  Section  VI  contains  experimental  data  which  indicate  a  some- 
what larger  value  for  2m in  than  that  obtained  here.  However  the  pa- 
rameter of  greatest  importance,  (r95)niin  ,  is  predicted  with  embarrassing 
precision. 

For  those  cases  in  which  additional  information  is  required  about  the 
beam  shape  at  axial  points  other  than  ZnVin  ,  the  curves  of  Fig.  12  or  the 
data  of  Table  II  may  be  used. 

6.   COMPARISON    OF   THEORY  WITH   EXPERIMENT 

In  order  to  check  the  general  suitability  of  the  foregoing  theory  and 
the  usefulness  of  the  design  charts  obtained,  several  scaled-up  versions 
of  Pierce  type  electron  guns,  including  the  gun  described  in  Section  5D, 
were  assembled  and  placed  in  the  double-aperture  beam  analyzer  de- 
scribed in  Reference  7. 

A.  Measurement  of  Current  Densities  in  the  Beam 

Measurements  of  the  current  density  distributions  in  several  trans- 
verse planes  near  Smin  were  easily  obtained  with  the  aid  of  the  beam 
analyzer.  The  resulting  curve  of  relative  current  density  versus  radius 
at  the  experimental  2min  is  given  in  Fig.  14  for  the  gun  of  Section  52). 
(This  curve  is  further  discussed  in  Part  C  below.)  For  this  case,  as  well 
as  for  all  others,  special  precautions  were  taken  to  see  that  the  gun  was 
functioning  properly :  In  addition  to  careful  measurement  of  the  size  and 
position  of  all  gun  parts,  these  included  the  determination  that  the  dis- 
tribution of  transverse  velocities  at  the  center  of  the  beam  was  smooth 


*  When  j'c/o-  <  0.5,  the  current  density  distribution  depends  almost  entirely  on 
a,  and,  in  only  a  minor  way,  on  the  ratio  Te/a-  so  that  in  such  cases  this  ratio  need 
not  be  accurately  known. 


q 


/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/    A 

y 

V 

/ 

i 

/ 

^ 

/ 

y 

y 

/ 

/a 

^ 

^ 

^ 

4 

<^^ 

1 

1 

1 

/ 

'/ 

// 

1 

/ 

YfA/. 

h 

(^ 

Y 

// 

^*^.. 



00 

<o  in 

'i- 

ro 

(\j 

— 

(D 

<o 

in 

^ 

n 

ry 

o 

O 

o  o 

6 

O 

d 

o 

o 
d 

o 
d 

o 
d 

o 
d 

o 
o 

o 
d 

^J/''(N'^J) 


Dj/Nm^ 


o 


m  IS-. 
(\j 


C\J  o  — 


II 


// 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

o/  ox  o_ 

/^ 

A 

i^ 

^ 

/ 

c 

J 

A 

^ 

/ 

i 

i 

^ 

s^ 

^ 

1 

1 

1 

O     00       <D    in 
-■    d      do 


ro 

d 


rv; 

d 


/, 

// 

// 

y 

<• 

^ 

// 

\7/ 

i 

/ 

<. 

/: 

^ 

A 

c 

,(. 

cc 

^(f 

^>:-5> 

^^~5 

~^^^^r 

if'i^ 


—     CO      ID   m   ^ 

do      o   o   o 

d      d   d   d 


p 

n     It] 

it- 


in  IS-     J 


d 

II 


<!.  LU 

LU  Q 

mto 
^,  xz 

a  Oo 
LU  tr 
>      u. 

o 


inlnj 

O 
> 

n 

/ 

/ 

V/ 

1 

2 
< 

/ 

/ 

// 

// 

1 

/ 

/ 

A 

/  / 

1 

D 

X 

1  "^ 
1   O 

/ 

\ 

^ 

4 

/ 

^ 

'^ 

^ 

^ 

/■ 

-f 

1 

1 

1 

3      CO 

ID    in 

'3- 

(O 

(\J 

-    d 

O    O 

O 

o 

o 

/ 

A 

/  / 

// 

A 

y  oy 

1     /  / 

fo 

Y 

/ 

\ 

/ 

^^-^ 

~~, 

0j/S6(N,^j) 


-    <0 


o 

^  i 

It'-'  2 

m  11-.  ' 


4 

« 


Tj-  fO  (M 


o- 


414 


/ 

1, 

V/ 

' 

/ 

/ 

/ 

// 

A 

/  o 

1 

d  /d 

( 

\ 

V 

u 

1 

V 

\ 

\^ 

^^ 

\ 

ll;.:: 

o 

CM 

d 


d  d 

NIIAI    iV 


CO 

o 

d 


o 
d 


o    <o 


^■j./d 


O  00  (O 


\  \«1 

1i> 

1 

J 

CM 

^^ 

J 

f 

00 

6 

'J- 

d 

o 

\ 

/§ 

' 

If)       (D 
O      — 

d 


O  CO  <o 

Nl^^l  XV  d/^j. 


q 


<o   It, 


1 

I  III 
ijiii 

ii^ 

f 

^ 

_,^^ 

^ 

^ 

00 

d     _ 

1 

> 

^     d 

/d 

is«p 

o 

CO       (D 
lU 

•^    lii^ 

ry 


o 


NIW  IV 


in  ^  fO 

N I  IN  IV  i?/^J 


fvi 


415 


416 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


12 
11 

10' 


z 

UJ 

o 

5 
UJ 

> 


^ 

\PREDICTED 

^■o-.. 

-IN 

\ 

measured"' 

^ 

V 

4 

\ 

^. 

N 

V 

\ 

k 

\ 

"V. 

\ 

\ 

} 

^ 

^.. 

P" 

^-Gr.^ 

==^ 

01  23456789 

RADIUS   IN     MILS 

Fig.  14  —  Current  density  distribution  in  a  transverse  plane  located  where  the 
95  per  cent  radius  is  a  minimum.  The  predicted  and  measured  curves  are  normal- 
ized to  contain  the  same  total  current.  (The  corresponding  prediction  from  the 
universal  beam  spread  curve  would  show  a  step  function  with  a  constant  relative 
current  density  of  64.2  for  r  <  1.2  mils  and  zero  beyond.)  The  gun  parameters  are 
given  in  Section  5D. 

and  generally  Gaussian  in  form,  thereby  indicating  uniform  cathode 
emission  and  proper  boundary  conditions  at  the  edge  of  the  beam  near 
the  cathode.  The  ejffect  of  positive  ions  on  the  beam  shape  was  in  every  I 
case  reduced  to  negligible  proportions,  either  by  using  special  pulse 
techniques,  or  by  applying  a  small  voltage  gradient  along  the  axis  of 
the  beam. 

B.  Comparison  of  the  Experiinentally  Measured  Spreading  of  a  Beam  with 
that  Predicted  Theoretically 

From  the  experimentally  obtained  plots  of  current  density  versus 
radius  at  several  axial  positions  along  the  beam,  we  have  obtained  at 
each  position  (by  integrating  to  find  the  total  current  within  any  radius) 
a  value  for  the  radius,  rgs ,  of  that  circle  which  encompasses  95  per  cent 
of  the  beam.  For  brevity,  we  call  the  resulting  plots  of  rgs  versus  axial 
distance,  "beam  profiles".  The  experimental  profile  for  the  giui  de- 
scribed in  Section  5D  is  shown  as  curve  A  in  Fig.  15(a).  Curve  B  shows 
the  profile  as  predicted  by  the  methods  of  this  paper  and  obtained  from 
Fig.  12.  Curve  C  is  the  corresponding  profile  which  one  obtains  by  the 
Hines-Cutler  method,   and  Curve  D  represents  Tq^  as  obtained  from  the 


BEAM  FORMATION  WITH  ELECTRON  GUNS 


417 


CO 


20 
18 
16 
14 
12 


t-       8 


2 
0 

I 

50 
45 
40 
35 


if)    30 


Z    25 

l?  20 

15 

10 


(a) 

GUN    PARAMETERS: 
fc/fa=2.8 

s 

/ 

^ 

\, 

(C)j 

/ 
1 

/ 

e  =  i3.7° 

VVa/T-i.o 

\ 

^> 

k 

/ 
/ 
/ 

[B]/ 

r 

rc  =  0.043" 

(A)  EXPERIMENT 

(B)  METHODS  OF 
THIS    PAPER 

(C)  HINES-CUTLER 
METHOD 

(D)  UNIVERSAL    BEAM 
SPREAD   CURVE 

\ 

^^ 

V 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

N 

s. 

<; 

>^ 

^ 

'4 

/ 

^ 

<. 

\ 

\, 

"^ 

^>3e 

\ 

\, 

y 

/(D) 

\ 

\ 

y 

y 

"~~- 

^^ 

^ 

40 


80  120  160  200  240 

Z,  DISTANCE   FROM    IDEAL    ANODE    IN   MILS 


280 


320 


(b) 

i 

/(C) 

y 

GUN    PARAMETERS: 
f  c/fa  =  2.5 

1 
1 

1 

/ 

/ 

e  = 

8° 
1.0 

/ 

1 
* 

y 

^B) 

^/V, /T- 

\ 

x^ 

V      a/ 

rc  =  0.150" 

/ 

/ 
/ 
f 

y 

/^ 

V 

^ 

V 

^ 

^***^^ 

•■ 

• 

• 

} 

\ 

X 

X 

"^ 



,  -» 

-^ 

<^ 

— ■^ 
(A) 

\ 

^^ 

.^ 

y 

^-- 

^^ 

^ 

(D) 

100  200  300  400  500  600 

Z,  DISTANCE   FROM    IDEAL    ANODE    IN   MILS 


700 


800 


Fig.  15  —  Beam  profiles  (using  an  anode  lens  correction  of  r  =  1.1  and  the  gun 
parameters  indicated)  as  obtained  (A)  from  experiment,  (B)  bj^  the  methods  of  this 
paper,  (C)  Hines-Cutler  method,  (D)  by  use  of  the  universal  beam  spread  curve. 

universal  l^eam  spread  curve'"  (i.e.,  under  the  assumption  of  laminar 
flow  and  gradual  variations  of  beam  radius  with  distance) .  Note  that  in 
each  case  a  value  of  1.1  has  been  used  for  the  correction  factor,  r,  repre- 
senting the  excess  divergence  of  the  anode  lens.  The  agreement  in 
(/'95)min  as  obtaiucd  from  Curves  A  and  B  is  remarkably  good,  but  the 
axial  position  of  (r95)min  in  Curve  A  definitely  lies  beyond  the  correspond- 


418  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

ing  inininumi  position  in  Curve  B.  Fortunately,  in  the  gun  design  stage, 
one  is  usually  more  concerned  with  the  value  of  (r95)min  than  with  its 
exact  axial  location.  The  principal  need  for  knowing  the  axial  location  of 
the  minimum  is  to  enable  the  axial  magnetic  field  to  build  up  suddenly 
in  this  neighborhood.  However,  since  this  field  is  normally  adjusted  ex- 
perimentally to  produce  best  focusing,  an  approximate  knowledge  of 
2m in  is  usually  adequate. 

In  Fig.  15b  we  show  a  similar  set  of  experimental  and  theoretical  beam 
profiles  for  another  gun.  The  relative  profiles  are  much  the  same  as  in 
Fig  15a,  and  all  of  several  other  guns  measured  yield  experimental 
points  similarly  situated  with  respect  to  curves  of  Type  B. 

C.  Comparison  of  Experimental  and  Theoretical  Current  Density  Dis- 
tributions where  the  Minimum  Beam  Diameter  is  Reached 

In  Fig.  14  we  have  plotted  the  current  density  distribution  we  would 
have  predicted  in  a  transverse  plane  at  ^min  for  the  example  introduced 
in  Section  5Z).  Here  the  experimental  and  theoretical  curves  are  nor- 
malized to  include  the  same  total  currents  in  their  respective  beams. 
The  noticeable  difference  in  predicted  and  measured  current  densities 
at  the  center  of  the  beam  does  not  appreciably  alter  the  properties  such 
a  beam  would  have  on  entering  a  magnetic  field  because  so  little  total 
current  is  actually  represented  by  this  central  peak. 

D.  Variation  of  Beam  Profile  with  T 

All  of  the  design  charts  have  been  based  on  a  value  of  T  =  1.1,  which 
is  typical  of  the  values  obtained  by  the  methods  of  Section  3.  When 
appreciably  different  values  of  F  are  appropriate,  we  can  get  some  feel- 
ing for  the  errors  involved,  in  using  curves  based  on  T  =  1.1,  by  refer- 
ence to  Fig.  16.  Here  we  show  beam  profiles  as  obtained  by  the  methods 
of  this  paper  for  three  values  of  F.  The  calculations  are  again  based  on 
the  gun  of  Section  5D,  and  a  value  of  just  over  1.1  for  F  gives  the  ex- 
perimentally obtained  value  for  (r95)min  . 

7.    SOME   ADDITIONAL   REMARKS    ON    GUN   DESIGN 

In  previous  sections  we  have  not  differentiated  between  the  voltage 
on  the  accelerating  anode  of  the  gun  and  the  final  beam  voltage.  It  is 
important,  howovei',  that  the  separate  functions  of  these  two  voltages 
be  kept  clearly  in  mind:  The  accelerating  anode  determines  the  total 
current  drawn  and  largely  controls  the  shaping  of  the  beam;  the  final 
beam  voltage  is,  on  the  other  hand,  chosen  to  give  maximum  interaction 
between  the  electron  beam  and  the  electromagnetic  waves  traveling 
along  the  slow  wave  circuit.  As  a  consequence  of  this  separation  of  func- , 


BEAM  FORMATION  WITH  ELECTRON  GUNS 


419 


0.006 


0.02 


0.18 


0.20 


0.22 


0.04  0.06  0.08  0.10  0.12  0.14  0.16 

Z,   DISTANCE    FROM    IDEAL   ANODE    IN    INCHES 

Fig.  16  —  Beam  profiles  as  obtained  by  the  methods  of  this  paper  for  the  gun 
parameters  given  in  Section  bD.  Curves  are  shown  for  three  values  of  the  anode 
lens  correction,  viz.  T  =  1.0,  1.1,  and  1.2. 

tions,  it  is  fouiicl  that  some  beams  which  are  difficult  or  impossible  to 
obtain  with  a  single  Pierce-gun  acceleration  to  final  beam  voltage  may 
be  obtained  more  easily  by  using  a  lower  voltage  on  the  gun  anode.  The 
acceleration  to  final  beam  voltage  is  then  accomplished  after  the  beam 
has  entered  a  region  of  axial  magnetic  field. 

Suppose,  for  example,  that  one  wishes  to  produce  a  2-ma,  4-kv  beam 
with  (rgs/rc)  =  0.25.  If  the  cathode  temperature  is  1000°K,  and  the  gun 
anode  is  placed  at  a  final  beam  voltage  of  4  kv,  we  have  \^Va/T  =  2 
and  P  =  0.008.  From  the  top  set  of  curves  under  \^Va/T  =  2  in  Fig. 
13,  we  find  (by  using  a  fairly  crude  extrapolation  from  the  curves  shown) 
that  a  ratio  of  fc/fa'^  3.5  is  required  to  produce  such  a  beam.  The  value 
of  {ve/o-)  at  Zmin  IS  therefore  less  than  about  0.2  so  that  there  is  little 
x'mblance  of  laminar  flow  here.  On  the  other  hand  we  might  choose 
r,  =  250  volts  so  that  a/fT^  =  0.5  and  P  =  0.51.  From  Fig.  13* 
we  than  obtain  fc/fa  =  2.6  and  (re/o-)min  =  0.8  for  the  same  ratio  of 
'■'joAc(=  0.25).  While  the  flow  could  still  hardly  be  called  laminar,  it  is 
(•(jnsiderably  more  ordered  than  in  the  preceding  case.  Here  we  have  in- 
cluded no  correction  for  the  (convergent)  lens  effect  associated  with  the 
post-anode  acceleration  to  the  final  beam  voltage,  F  =  4  kv. 

Calculations  of  the  Hines-Cutler  type  will  always  predict,  for  a  given 
set  of  gun  parameters  and  a  specified  anode  lens  correction,  a  minimum 
beam  size  which  is  larger  than  that  predicted  by  the  methods  of  this 
])aper.  Nevertheless,  in  many  cases  the  difference  between  the  minimum 
sizes  predicted  by  the  two  theories  is  negligible  so  long  as  the  same  anode 
lens  correction  is  used.  The  extent  to  which  the  two  theories  agree  ob- 


420  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

viously  depends  on  the  magnitude  of  Velo.  When  rel(T  as  calculated  by 
the  Hines-Cutler  method  (with  a  lens  correction  added)  remains  greater 
than  about  2  throughout  the  range  of  interest,  the  difference  between 
the  corresponding  values  obtained  for  rgs  will  be  only  a  few  per  cent. 
For  these  cases  where  rja  does  not  get  too  small,  the  principal  advan- 
tages of  this  paper  are  in  the  inclusion  of  a  correction  to  the  anode  lens 
formula  and  in  the  comparative  ease  with  which  design  parameters  may 
be  obtained.  In  other  cases  r^la  may  become  less  than  1,  and  the  theory 
presented  in  this  paper  has  extended  the  basic  Hines-Cutler  approach 
so  that  one  may  make  realistic  predictions  even  under  these  less  ideal 
conditions  where  the  departure  from  a  laminar-type  flow  is  quite  severe. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

We  wish  to  thank  members  of  the  Mathematical  Department  at 
B.T.L.,  particularly  H.  T.  O'Neil  and  Mrs.  L.  R.  Lee,  for  their  help  in 
programming  the  problem  on  the  analog  computer  and  in  obtaining  the 
large  amount  of  computer  data  involved.  In  addition,  we  wish  to  thank 
J.  C.  Irwin  for  his  help  in  the  electrolytic  tank  work  and  both  Mr.  Irwin 
and  W.  A.  L.  Warne  for  their  work  on  the  beam  analyzer. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Rectilinear  Flow  in  Beams,  J.  App.  Phys.,  11,  pp.  548-554,  Aug., 

1940. 

2.  Samuel,  A.  L.,  Some  Notes  on  the  Design  of  Electron  Guns,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  33, 

pp.  233-241,  April,  1945. 

3.  Field,  L.  M.,  High  Current  Electron  Guns,  Rev.  Mod.  Phys.,  18,  pp.  353-361, 

July,  1946. 

4.  Davisson,  C.  J.,  and  Calbick,  C.  J.,  Electron  Lenses,  Phys.  Rev.,  42,  p.  580, 

Nov.,  1932. 

5.  Helm,  R.,  Spangenburg,  K.,  and  Field,  L.  M.,  Cathode-Design  Procedure  for 

Electron  Beam  Tubes,  Elec.  Coram.,  24,  pp.  101-107,  March,  1947. 

6.  Cutler,  C.  C,  and  Hines,  M.  E.,  Thermal  Velocity  Effects  in  Electron  Guns, 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  307-314,  March,  1955. 

7.  Cutler,  C.  C,  and  Saloom,  J.  A.,  Pin-hole  Camera  Investigation  of  Electron 

Beams,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  299-306,  March,  1955. 

8.  Hines,  M.  E.,  Manuscript  in  preparation. 

9.  Private  communication. 

10.  See  for  example,  Zworykin,  V.  K.,  et  al..  Electron  Optics  and  the  Electron 

Microscope,  Chapter  13,  Wiley  and  Sons,  1945,  or  Klemperer,  O.,  Electron 
Optics,  Chapter  4,  Cambridge  Univ.  Press,  1953. 

11.  Brown,  K.  L.,  and  Siisskind,  C.,  The  Effect  of  the  Anode  Aperature  on  Po- 

tential Distribution  in  a  "Pierce"  Electron  Gun,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  42,  p.  598, 
March,  1954. 

12.  See,  for  example,  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Theory  and  Design  of  Electron  Beams,  p.  147, 

Van  Nostrand  Co.,  1949. 

13.  See  Reference  6,  p.  5. 

14.  Langmuir,  I.  L.,  and  Blodgett,  K.,  Currents  Limited  by  Space  Charge  Be- 

tween Concentric  Spheres,  Phys.  Rev.,  24,  p.  53,  July,  1924. 

15.  See  Reference  12,  p.  177. 

16.  See  Reference  12,  Chap.  X. 


Theories  for  Toll  Traffic  Engineering  in 

the  U.S.A.* 

By  ROGER  I.  WILKINSON 

(Manuscript  received  June  2,  1955) 

Present  toll  trunk  traffic  engineering  practices  in  the  United  States  are 
reviewed,  and  various  congestion  formulas  compared  with  data  obtained  on 
long  distance  traffic.  Customer  habits  upon  meeting  busy  channels  are  noted 
and  a  theory  developed  describing  the  probable  result  of  permitting  subscribers 
to  have  direct  dialing  access  to  high  delay  toll  trunk  groups. 

Continent-wide  automatic  alternate  routing  plans  are  described  briefly, 
in  which  near  no-delay  service  will  permit  direct  customer  dialing.  The 
presence  of  non-random  overflow  traffic  from  high  usage  groups  co7nplicates 
the  estimation  of  correct  quantities  of  alternate  paths.  Present  methods  of 
solving  graded  multiple  problems  are  reviewed  and  found  unadaptable  to  the 
variety  of  trunking  arrangements  occurring  in  the  toll  plan. 

Evidence  is  given  that  the  principal  fluctuation  characteristics  of  overflow- 
type  of  non-random  traffic  are  described  by  their  mean  and  variance.  An 
approximate  probability  distribution  of  simultaneous  calls  for  this  kind  of 
non-random  traffic  is  developed,  and  found  to  agree  satisfactorily  with  theo- 
retical overflow  distributions  and  those  seen  in  traffic  simidations. 

A  method  is  devised  using  ^^ equivalent  random''^  traffic,  which  has  good 
loss  predictive  ability  under  the  "lost  calls  cleared"  assumption,  for  a  diverse 
field  of  alternate  route  trunking  arrangements.  Loss  comparisons  are  made 
with  traffic  simulation  residts  and  with  observations  in  exchanges. 

Working  curves  are  presented  by  which  midti-alternate  route  trunking 
systems  can  be  laid  out  to  meet  economic  and  grade  of  service  criteria.  Exam- 
ples of  their  application  are  given. 

Table  of  Contents 

1 .  Introduction 422 

2.  Present  Toll  Traffic  Engineering  Practice 423 


*  Presented  at  the  First  International  Congress  on  the  Application  of  the 
Theory  of  Probability  in  Telephone  Engineering  and  Administration,  Copen- 
hagen, June  21,  1955. 

421 


422  THE   BELL  SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

3.  Customers  Dialing  on  Groups  with  Considerable  Delay 431 

3.1.  Comparison  of  Some  Formulas  for  Estimating  Customers'  NC  Service 

on  Congested  Groups 434 

4.  Service  Requirements  for  Direct  Distance  Dialing  by  Customers 436 

5.  Economics  of  Toll  Alternate  Routing 437 

6.  New  Problems  in  the  Engineering  and  Administration  of  Intertoll  Groups 
Resulting  from  Alternate  Routing 441 

7.  Load-Service  Relationships  in  Alternate  Route  Systems 442 

7.1.  The  "Peaked"  Character  of  Overflow  Traffic 443 

7.2.  Approximate  Description  of  the  Character  of  Overflow  Traffic 446 

7.2.1.  A  Probability  Distribution  for  Overflow  Traffic 452 

7.2.2.  A  Probability  Distribution  for  Combined  Overflow  Traffic  Loads  457 

7.3.  Equivalent  Random  Theory  for  Prediction  of  Amount  of  Traffic  Over- 
flowing a  Single  Stage  Alternate  Route,  and  Its  Character,  with  Lost 

Calls  Cleared 461 

7.3.L  Throwdown  Comparisons  with  Equivalent  Random  Theory  on 

Simple    Alternate    Routing    Arrangements    with    Lost     Calls 

Cleared 468 

7.3.2.  Comparison  of  Equivalent  Random  Theory  with  Field  Results 

on  Simple  Alternate  Routing  Arrangements 470 

7.4.  Prediction  of  Traffic  Passing  Through  a  Multi-Stage  Alternate  Route 

Network 475 

7.4.1.  Correlation  of  Loss  with  Peakedness  of  Components  of  Non- 
Random  Offered  Traffic 481 

7.5.  Expected  Loss  on  First  Routed  Traffic  Offered  to  Final  Route 482 

7.6.  Load  on  Each  Trunk,  Particularly  the  Last  Trunk,  in  a  Non-Slipped 
Alternate  Route 486 

8.  Practical  Methods  for  Alternate  Route  Engineering 487 

8.1.  Determination  of  Final  Group  Size  with  First  Routed  Traffic  Offered 
Directly  to  Final  Group 490 

8.2.  Provision  of  Trunks  Individual  to  First  Routed  Traffic  to  Equalize 
Service 491 

8.3.  Area  in  Which  Significant  Savings  in  Final  Route  Trunks  are  Real- 
ized by  Allowing  for  the  Preferred  Service  Given  a  First  Routed 
Traffic  Parcel 494 

8.4.  Character  of  Traffic  Carried  on  Non-Final  Routes 495 

8.5.  Solution  of  a  Typical  Toll  Multi-Alternate  Route  Trunking  Arrange- 
ment :  Bloomsburg,  Pa 500 

9.  Conclusion 505 

Acknowledgements 506 

References 506 

Abridged  Bibliography  of  Articles  on  Toll  Alternate  Routing 507 

Appendix  I:  Derivation  of  Moments  of  Overflow  Traffic 507 

Appendix  II:  Character  of  Overflow  when  Non-Random  Traffic  is  Offered 

to  a  group  of  Trunks 511 


1.    INTRODUCTION 

It  has  long  been  the  stated  aim  of  the  Bell  System  to  make  it  easily 
and  economically  possible  for  any  telephone  customer  in  the  United 
States  to  reach  any  other  telephone  in  the  world.  The  principal  effort 
in  this  direction  by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 
and  its  associated  operating  companies  is,  of  course,  confined  to  inter- 
connecting the  telephones  in  the  United  States,  and  to  providing  com- 
munication channels  between  North  America  and  the  other  countries  of 
the  world.  Since  the  United  States  is  some  1500  miles  from  north  to 
fSOuth  and  3000  miles  from  east  to  west,  to  realize  even  the  aim  of  fast 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING    IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      423 

and  economical  service  between  customers  is  a  problem  of  great  magni- 
tude; it  has  engaged  our  planning  engineers  for  many  years. 

There  are  now  52  million  telephones  in  the  United  States,  over  80  per 
cent  of  which  are  equipped  with  dials.  Until  quite  recently  most  telephone 
users  were  limited  in  their  direct  dialing  to  the  local  or  immediately  sur- 
rounding areas  and  long  distance  operators  were  obliged  to  build  up  a 
circuit  with  the  aid  of  a  "through"  operator  at  each  switching  point. 

Both  speed  and  economy  dictated  the  automatic  build-up  of  long  toll 
circuits  without  the  intervention  of  more  than  the  originating  toll  oper- 
ator. The  development  of  the  No.  4-type  toll  crossbar  switching  system 
with  its  ability  to  accept,  translate,  and  pass  on  the  necessary  digits  (or 
lujuivalent  information)  to  the  distant  office  made  this  method  of  oper- 
ation possible  and  feasible.  It  was  introduced  during  World  War  II,  and 
now  by  means  of  it  and  allied  equipment,  55  per  cent  of  all  long  distance 
calls  (over  25  miles)  are  completed  by  the  originating  operator. 

As  more  elaborate  switching  and  charge-recording  arrangements  were 
developed,  particularly  in  metropolitan  areas,  the  distances  which  cus- 
tomers themselves  might  dial  measurably  increased.  This  expansion  of 
the  local  dialing  area  was  found  to  be  both  economical  and  pleasing  to 
the  users.  It  was  then  not  too  great  an  effort  to  visualize  customers 
dialing  to  all  other  telephones  in  the  United  States  and  neighboring 
countries,  and  perhaps  ultimately  across  the  sea. 

The  physical  accomplishment  of  nationwide  direct  distance  dialing 
which  is  now  gradually  being  introduced  has  involved,  as  may  well  be 
imagined,  an  immense  amount  of  advance  study  and  fundamental  plan- 
ning. Adequate  transmission  and  signalling  with  up  to  eight  intertoll 
trunks  in  tandem,  a  nationwide  uniform  numbering  plan  simple  enough 
to  be  used  accurately  and  easily  by  the  ordinary  telephone  caller,  pro- 
^  ision  for  automatic  recording  of  who  called  whom  and  how  long  he 
talked,  with  subsequent  automatic  message  accounting,  are  a  few  of 
man}^  problems  which  have  required  solution.  How  they  are  being  met  is 
a  romantic  story  beyond  the  scope  of  the  present  paper.  The  references 
given  in  the  bibliography  at  the  end  contain  much  of  the  history  as  well 
as  the  plans  for  the  future.  • 

2.    PRESENT   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   PRACTICE 

There  are  today  approximately  116,000  intertoll  trunks  (over  25  miles 
in  length)  in  the  Bell  System,  apportioned  among  some  13,000  trunk 
groups.  A  small  segment  of  the  2,600  toll  centers  which  they  interconnect 
is  shown  in  Fig.  1.  Most  of  these  intertoll  groups  are  presently  traffic 
engineered  to  operate  according  to  one  of  several  so-called  T-schedules: 
T-8,  T-15,  T-30,  T-60,  or  T-120.  The  number  following  T  (T  for  Toll)  is 


424  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


KEY 

O      TOLL    CENTERS 

INTERTOLL    TRUNK    GROUPS 


Fig.  1  —  Principal  intertoll  trunk  groups  in  Minnesota  and  Wisconsin. 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      425 


4       5      6     7   8  9  10 
NUMBER    OF  TRUNKS 


30       40    50 


Fig.  2  —  Permitted  intertoU  trunk  occupancy  for  a  6.5-minute  usage  time 
per  message. 

the  expected,  or  average,  delay  in  seconds  for  calls  to  obtain  an  idle 
trunk  in  that  group  during  the  average  Busy  Season  Busy  Hour.  In  1954 
the  system  "average  trunk  speed"  was  approximately  30  seconds,  re- 
sulting from  operating  the  majority  of  the  groups  at  a  busy-hour  trunk- 
ling  efficiency  of  75  to  85  per  cent  in  the  busy  season. 

The  T-engineering  tables  show  permissible  call  minutes  of  use  for  a 


426  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

wide  range  of  group  sizes,  and  several  selections  of  message  holding 
times.  They  were  constructed  following  summarization  of  many  obser- 
vations of  load  and  resultant  average  delays  on  ringdown  (non-dial) 
intertoll  trunks.^  Fig.  2  shows  the  permissible  occupancy  (efficiency)  of 
various  trunk  group  sizes  for  6.5  minutes  of  use  per  message,  for  a  va- 
riety of  T-schedules.  It  is  perhaps  of  somfe  interest  that  the  best  fitting 
curves  relating  average  delay  and  load  were  found  to  be  the  well-known 
Pollaczek-Crommelin  delay  curves  for  constant  holding  time  —  this  in 
spite  of  the  fact  that  the  circuit  holding  times  were  far  indeed  from 
having  a  constant  value. 

A  second,  and  probably  not  uncorrected,  observation  was  that  the 
per  cent  "No-Circuit"  (NC)  reported  on  the  operators'  tickets  showed 
consistently  lower  values  than  were  measured  on  group-busy  timing  de- 
vices. Although  not  thoroughly  documented,  this  disparity  has  generally 
been  attributed  to  the  reluctance  of  an  operator  to  admit  immediately 
the  presence  of  an  NC  condition.  She  exhibits  a  certain  tolerance  (very 
difficult  to  measure)  before  actually  recording  a  delay  which  would 
recjuire  her  to  adopt  a  prescribed  procedure  for  the  subsequent  handling 
of  the  call.*  There  are  then  two  measures  of  the  No-Circuit  condition 
which  are  of  some  interest,  the  "NC  encountered"  by  operators,  and  the 
"NC  existing"  as  measured  by  timing  devices. 

It  has  long  been  observed  that  the  distribution  of  numbers  n  of  simul- 
taneous calls  found  on  T-engineered  ringdown  intertoll  groups  is  in  re- 
markable agreement  with  the  individual  probability  terms  of  the  Erlang 
"lost  calls"  formula, 

f  n  — a ' 

a   e 


fin)  =  ^-^^  (1) 

e 


E- 


n=o     n! 

where  c  =  number  of  paths  in  the  group, 

a'  =  an    enhanced    average    load    submitted    such    that 
a'[l  —  Ei^c(a')]  =  L,  the  actual  load  carried,  and 
Ei^cid')  =  fie)  =  Erlang  loss  probability  (commonly  called  Er- 
lang B  in  America). 
An  example  of  the  agreement  of  observations  with  (1)  is  shown  in  Fig. 
3,  where  the  results  of  switch  counts  made  some  years  ago  on  many 
ringdown  circuit  groups  of  size  3  are  summarized.  A  wide  range  of  "sub- 


*  Upon  finding  No-Circuit,  an  operator  is  instructed  to  try  again  in  30  seconds 
and  GO  seconds  (before  giving  an  NC  report  to  the  customer),  followed  by  addi- 
tional attempts  5  minutes  and  10  minutes  later  if  necessary. 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      427 


0.10  0.2  0.5  1.0  2 

AVERAGE  "submitted"  LOAD    IN    ERLANIGS 


Fig.  3  —  Distributions  of  simultaneous  calls  on  three-trunk  toll  groups  at 
.\lbany  and  Buffalo. 

I  nit  ted"  loads  a'  to  produce  the  observed  carried  loads  is  required.  On 
Fig.  4  are  shown  the  corresponding  comparisons  of  theory  and  obser- 
vations for  the  proportions  of  time  all  paths  are  busy  ("NC  Existing") 
for  2-,  4-,  5-,  7-,  and  9-circuit  groups.  Good  agreement  has  also  been  ob- 
served for  circuit  groups  up  to  20  trunks.  This  has  been  found  to  be  a 
stable  relationship,  in  spite  of  the  considerable  variation  in  the  actual 
practices  in  ringdown  operation  on  the  resubmission  of  delayed  calls. 
Since  the  estimation  of  traffic  loads  and  the  subsequent  administration 
of  ringdown  toll  trunks  has  been  performed  principally  by  means  of 
Group  Busy  Timers  (which  cumulate  the  duration  of  NC  time),  the 
Erlang  relationship  just  described  has  been  of  great  importance. 


428 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


With  the  recent  rapid  increase  in  operator  dialed  intertoll  groups,  it 
might  be  expected  that  the  above  discrepancy  between  "  %  NC  encoun- 
tered" and  "%  NC  existing"  would  disappear  —  for  an  operator  now 
initiates  each  call  unaware  of  the  momentary  state  of  the  load  on  any 
particular  intertoll  group.  By  the  use  of  peg  count  meters  (which  count 
calls  offered)  and  overflow  call  counters,  this  change  has  in  fact  been 
observed  to  occiu'.  ]\Ioreo^'er,  since  the  initial  re-trial  intervals  are  com- 
monly fairly  short  (30  seconds)  subsequent  attempts  tend  to  find  some 
of  the  previous  congestion  still  existing,  so  that  the  ratio  of  overflow  to 
peg  count  readings  now  exceeds  slightly  the  "%  NC  existing."  This 
situation  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  5,  which  shows  data  taken  on  an  operator- 


1.0 


AVERAGE    SUBMITTED    LOAD 


Fig.  4  —  Observed  proportions  of  time  all  trunks  were  busy  on  Albany  and 
Buffalo  groups  of  2,  4,  5,  7,  and  9  trunks, 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      429 


u 

z 

o 

z 
I- 

UJ 
HI 

5 

ul 
_i 
_i 
< 
o 

U- 

o 

z 
o 

(- 
cc 
o 
a. 
o 
tr 
a. 


0.001 


12  14 

L  =  LOAD   CARRIED    IN    ERLANGS 


18 


Fig.  5  —  Comparison  of  NC  data  on  a  16-trunk  T-engineered  toll  group  with 
various  load  versus  NC  theories. 


dialed  T-engineered  group  of  16  trunks  between  Newark,  N.  J.,  and 
Akron,  Ohio.  Curve  A  shows  the  empirically  determined  "NC  encoun- 
tered" relationship  described  above  for  ringdown  operation;  Curve  B 
gives  the  corresponding  theoretical  "NC  existing"  values.  Lines  C  and  D 
give  the  operator-dialing  results,  for  morning  and  afternoon  busy  hours. 
The  observed  points  are  now  seen  generally  to  be  significantly  above 
Curve  B.* 

At  the  same  time  as  this  change  in  the  "NC  encountered"  was  occur- 
ring, due  to  the  introduction  of  operator  toll  dialing,  there  seems  to  have 
l)een  little  disturbance  to  the  traditional  relationship  between  load 

*  The  observed  point  at  11  erlangs  which  is  clearly  far  out  of  agreement  with 
the  remainder  of  the  data  was  produced  by  a  combination  of  high-trend  hours 
and  an  hour  in  which  an  operator  apparently  made  many  re-t^rials  in  rapid  suc- 
cession. 


430 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


u. 

10 

z 

o 

o 

5 

o 
m 

rvj 

ti 

_r 
< 

(- 

z 

LU 

z 
o 

z 
o 

i 

tr 

UJ 

I/) 

§ 

o 

«---   LIMIT  OF 
OBSERVED 
DATA 

i 

[ 

oiT 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

/ 

/' 

^•^ 

/^ 

^ 

^ 

««- 

^ 

^ 

Tt^^ 

^•^^ 

^ 

s:;^ 

8 


If) 


o 

0> 


o 

(0 


(O 


o 


If) 


o 


in 


o 


o 


in 
tvj 


o       in 


SBIONII^    1-    a3AO  SidlAjaiiV   dO    iN3D«3d 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      431 

carried  and  "  %  NC  existing."  C.  J.  Truitt  of  the  A.T.  &  T.  Co.  studied 
i  a  number  of  operator-dialed  T-engineered  groups  at  Newark,  New  Jersey, 
in  1954  with  a  traffic  usage  recorder  (TUR)  and  group-busy  timers,  and 
found  the  relationship  of  equation  (1)  still  good.  (This  analysis  has  not 
been  published.) 

A  study  by  Dr.  L.  Kosten  has  provided  an  estimate  of  the  probability 
that  when  an  NC  condition  has  been  found,  it  will  also  appear  at  a  time 
T  later."  When  this  modification  is  made,  the  expected  load-versus-NC 
relationship  is  shown  by  Curve  E  on  Fig.  5.  (The  re-trial  time  here  was 
taken  as  the  operators'  nominal  30  seconds;  with  150-second  circuit-use 
time  the  return  is  0.2  holding  time.)  The  observed  NC's  are  seen  to  lie 
slightly  above  the  E-curve.  This  could  be  explained  either  on  the  basis 
that  Kosten's  analysis  is  a  lower  limit,  or  that  the  operators  did  not 
strictly  observe  the  30-second  return  schedule,  or,  more  probably,  a 
combination  of  both. 

3.    CUSTOMERS  DIALING  ON  GROUPS  WITH  CONSIDERABLE  DELAY 

It  is  not  to  be  expected  that  customers  could  generally  be  persuaded  to 
wait  a  designated  constant  or  minimum  re-trial  time  on  their  calls  which 
meet  the  NC  condition.  Little  actual  experience  has  been  accumulated 
on  customers  dialing  long  distance  calls  on  high-delay  circuits.  However, 
it  is  plausible  that  they  would  follow  the  re-trial  time  distributions  of 
customers  making  local  calls,  who  encounter  paths-busy  or  line-busy 
signals  (between  which  they  apparently  do  not  usually  distinguish). 
Some  information  on  re-trial  times  was  assembled  in  1944  by  C.  Clos  by 
observing  the  action  of  customers  who  received  the  busy  signal  on  1,100 
local  calls  in  the  City  of  New  York.  As  seen  in  Fig.  6,  the  return  times, 
after  meeting  "busy,"  exhibit  a  marked  tendency  toward  the  exponential 
distribution,  after  allowance  for  a  minimum  interval  required  for  re- 
dialing. 

An  exponential  distribution  with  average  of  250  seconds  has  been 
I  fitted  by  eye  on  Fig.  6,  to  the  earlier  ■ —  and  more  critical  —  customer  re- 
turn times.  This  may  seem  an  unexpectedly  long  wait  in  the  light  of  indi- 
vidual experience;  however  it  is  probably  a  fair  estimate,  especially 
since,  following  the  collection  of  the  above  data,  it  has  become  common 
practice  for  American  operating  companies  in  their  instructional  lit- 
erature to  advise  customers  receiving  the  busy  signal  to  "hang  up,  wait 
a  few  minutes,  and  try  again." 

The  mathematical  representation  of  the  situation  assuming  exponen- 
I  tial  return  times  is  easily  formulated.  Let  there  be  .r  actual  trunks,  and 


432  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  MARCH    1956 

imagine  y  waiting  positions,  whore  y  is  so  large  that  few  calls  are  re- 
jected.* Assume  that  the  offered  load  is  a  erlangs,  and  that  the  calls  have 
exponential  conversation  holding  times  of  unit  average  duration.  Finally  \ 
let  the  average  return  time  for  calls  which  have  advanced  to  the  waiting  > 
positions,  be  1/s  times  that  of  the  unit  conversation  time.  The  statistical  j 
equilibrium  equation  can  then  be  written  for  the  probability  j\m,  n)  (j 
that  m  calls  are  in  progress  on  the  x  trunks  and  n  calls  are  waiting  on 
the  y  storage  positions:  ■ 

/(w,  n)  =  aj{m  —  1,  n)  dt  +  s(w  +  l)/(m  —  1,  n  +  1)  dt  ''■) 

+  (m  +  \)J{m  +  1,  n)  dt  +  a/(.r,  n  -  1)  dH^  (2) 

+  [1  -  (a***  +  sn**)  dt  -  m  dt]f(m,  n)  ^ 

where  0  ^  m  ^  .-r,  0  ^  w  ^  //,  and  the  special  limiting  situations  are 
recognized  by: 

■*  Include  term  only  when  m  —  x 

**■  Omit  sn  when  m  =  x 

***  Omit  a  when  m  =  x  and  n  =  y 

Equation  (2)  reduces  to 

(a***  +  snifif  +  m)f{m;  n)  =  af{m  —  1,  n)  1 

+  s(n  +  l)/(m  -  1,  w  +  1)  (3) 

+  (m  +  l)/(w  +  1,  n)  +  af(x,  n  -  !)•, 

Solution  of  (3)  is  most  easily  effected  for  moderate  values  of  x  and  y 
by  first  setting  f(x,  ?/)  =   1 .000000  and  solving  for  all  other  /(/?? ,  ?? )  in 

X        y 

terms  of /(o:,  ?/).  Normahzing  through  zl  11f(m,  n)   =   1.0,  then  gives 

m=0   n=0 

the  entire  f(m,  n)  array. 

The  proportion  of  time  "NC  exists,"  will,  of  course  be 

Z  Six,  n)  (4) 

n=0 

and  the  load  carried  is 

L  =  Xl  X  wi/(m,  n)  (5) 

The  proportion  of  call  attempts  meeting  NC,  including  all  re-trials 


*  The  quant  itjr  y  can  also  be  chosen  so  that  some  calls  are  rejected,  thus  roughly 
describing  those  calls  abandoned  after  the  first  attempt. 


THEORIES   FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.   S.    A,      433 


will  be 


W{x,  a,  s)  = 


Expected  overflow  calls  per  unit  time 
Expected  calls  offered  per  unit  time 

Z  (a  +  sn)jXx,  n)  -    ,      ./       ^  ^^^ 

sn  -\-  af{x,  y) 


n=0 


X         y 


S  2  («  +  sn)f(m,  n) 


a  -{-  sn 


m=0    71=0 


X         y 


in  which  n  =   ^  2^  nf(7n,  n).  And  when  y  is  chosen  so  large  that/(.r,  y) 

7H  =  0     71=0 

is  negligible,  as  we  shall  use  it  here, 


L  =  a 


W(x,  a,  s)  = 


sn 


a  -\-  sn 


(5') 
(6') 


1^       0.5 

< 

"^O    0.4 
ilZ 

Oo 
ZZ    0.3 

Ol- 

pllJ 

o5   0.2 

Q. 

o 

?       0.1 


6  TRUNKS 


/        //      APOISSON 
'         ^1  P(C,L) 


5=0.6 


2  4  6  8 

L=LOAD  CARRIED    IN   ERLANGS 


APOISSON 
P(C,L) 


fly    >^- 

f  I6j      _, 


8  10  12  14 

L  =  LOAD  CARRIED  IN   ERLANGS 


Fig.  7  — ■  Comparison  of  trunking  formulas. 


434  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


I 


This  formula  provides  a  means  for  estimating  the  grade  of  service 
which  customers  might  he  expected  to  receive  if  asked  to  dial  their  calls 
over  moderate-delay  or  high-delay  trunk  groups.  For  a  circuit  use  length 
of  150  seconds,  and  an  average  return  time  of  250  seconds  (as  on  Fig.  6), 
both  exponential,  the  load-versus-proportion-NC  curves  for  6  and  IG 
trunks  are  given  as  curves  (3)  on  Fig.  7.  For  example  with  an  offered 
(=  carried)  load  of  a  =  4.15  erlangs  on  6  trunks  we  should  expect  to  find 
27.5  per  cent  of  the  total  attempts  resulting  in  failure. 

For  comparison  with  a  fixed  return  time  of  NC-calls,  the  IF-formula 
curves  for  exponential  returns  of  30  seconds  (s  =  5)  and  250  seconds 
(s  =  0.6)  averages  are  shown  on  Fig.  5.  The  first  is  far  too  severe  an 
assumption  for  operator  performance,  giving  NC's  nearly  double  those 
actually  observed  (and  those  given  by  theory  for  a  30-second  constant 
return  time).  The  250-second  average  return,  however,  lies  only  slightly 
above  the  30-second  constant  return  curve  and  is  in  good  agreement  with 
the  data.  Although  not  logically  an  adequate  formula  for  interpreting 
Peg  Count  and  Overflow  registrations  on  T-engineered  groups  under 
operator  dialing  conditions,  the  IF-formula  apparently  could  be  used  for 
this  purpose  with  suitable  s-values  determined  empirically. 

3.1.  Comparison  of  Some  Formulas  for  Estimating  Customers'  NC  Service 

on  Congested  Groups 

,     1 
As  has  been  previously  observed,  a  large  proportion  of  customers  who 

receive  a  busy  signal,  return  within  a  few  minutes  (on  Fig.  6,  75  per  cent 
of  the  customers  returned  within  10  minutes).  It  is  well  known  too,  that 
under  adverse  service  conditions  subscriber  attempts  (to  reach  a  par- 
ticular distant  office  for  example)  tend  to  produce  an  inflated  estimate 
of  the  true  offered  load.  A  count  of  calls  carried  (or  a  direct  measurement 
of  load  carried)  will  commonly  be  a  closer  estimate  of  the  offered  load 
than  a  count  of  attempts.  An  exception  may  occur  when  a  large  propor- 
tion of  attempts  is  lost,  indicating  an  offered  load  possibly  in  excess  even 
of  the  number  of  paths  provided.  Under  the  latter  condition  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  estimate  the  true  offered  load  by  any  method,  since  not  all  the 
attempts  can  be  expected  to  return  repeatedly  until  served;  instead,  a 
significant  number  will  be  abandoned  somewhere  through  the  trials.  In 
most  other  circumstances,  however,  the  carried  load  will  prove  a  reason- 
ably good  estimate  of  the  true  offered  load  in  systems  not  provided  with 
alternate  paths. 

This  is  a  matter  of  especial  interest  for  both  toll  and  local  operation 
in  America  since  principal  future  reliance  for  load  measurement  is  ex- 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.   S.    A.      435 

pected  to  be  placed  on  automatically  processed  TUR  data,  and  as  the 
TUR  is  a  switch  counting  device  the  results  will  be  in  terms  of  load 
carried.  Moreover,  the  quantity  now  obtained  in  many  local  exchanges 
is  load  carried.*  Visual  switch  counting  of  line  finders  and  selectors  off- 
normal  is  widely  practiced  in  step-by-step  and  panel  offices;  a  variety  of 
electromechanical  switch  counting  devices  is  also  to  be  found  in  crossbar 
offices.  It  is  common  to  take  load-carried  figures  as  equal  to  load-offered 
when  using  conventional  trunking  tables  to  ascertain  the  proper  pro- 
vision of  trunks  or  switches.  Fig.  7  compares  the  NC  predictions  made  by 
a  number  of  the  available  load-loss  formulas  when  load  carried  is  used  as 
the  entry  variable. 

The  lowest  curves  (1)  on  Fig.  7  are  from  the  Erlang  lost  calls  formula 
El  (or  B)  with  load  carried  L  used  as  the  offered  load  a.  At  low  losses, 
say  0.01  or  less,  either  L  or  a  =  L/[l  —  Ei(a)]  can  be  used  indiscrimi- 
nately as  the  entry  in  the  Ei  formula.  If  however  considerably  larger 
losses  are  encountered  and  calls  are  not  in  reality  "cleared"  upon  meet- 
ing NC,  it  will  no  longer  be  satisfactory  to  substitute  L  for  a.  In  this 
circumstance  it  is  common  to  calculate  a  fictitious  load  a'  to  submit  to 
the  c  paths  such  that  the  load  carried,  a'[I  —  Ei^dd')],  equals  the  desired 
L.  (This  was  the  process  used  in  Section  2  to  obtain  "  %  NC  existing.") 
The  curves  (2)  on  Fig.  7  show  this  relation ;  physically  it  corresponds  to 
an  initially  offered  load  of  L  erlangs  (or  L  call  arrivals  per  average  hold- 
ing time),  whose  overflow  calls  return  again  and  again  until  successful 
but  without  disturbing  the  randomness  of  the  input.  Thus  if  the  loss 
from  this  enhanced  random  traffic  is  E,  then  the  total  trials  seen  per 
holding  time  will  be  L(l  +  ^  +  ^'  -f  •  •  •)  =  L/(l  -  E)  =  a',  the  ap- 
parent arrival  rate  of  new  calls,  but  actually  of  new  calls  plus  return 
attempts. 

The  random  resubmission  of  calls  may  provide  a  reasonable  descrip- 
tion of  operation  under  certain  circumstances,  presumably  when  re-trials 
are  not  excessive.  Kosten^  has  discussed  the  dangers  here  and  provided 
upper  and  lowxr  limit  formulas  and  curves  for  estimating  the  proportions 
of  NC's  to  be  expected  when  re-trials  are  made  at  any  specified  fixed 
leturn  time.  His  lower  bounds  (lower  bound  because  the  change  in  con- 
gestion character  caused  by  the  returning  calls  is  ignored)  are  shown  by 
open  dots  on  Fig.  7  for  return  times  of  1.67  holding  times.  They  lie  above 
curves  (2)  (although  only  very  slightly  because  of  the  relatively  long 
return  time)  since  they  allo\\-  for  the  fact  that  a  call  shortly  returning 


*  In  fact,  it  is  difficult  to  see  how  any  estimate  of  offered  load,  other  than  carried 
load,  can  be  obtained  with  useful  reliability. 


436  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

after  meeting  a  busy  signal  will  have  a  higher  probability  of  again  find- 
ing all  paths  busy,  than  would  a  randomly  originated  call. 

The  curves  (3)  show  the  TF-formula  previously  developed  in  this  sec- 
tion, which  contemplates  exponential  return  times  on  all  NC  attempts. 
The  average  return  time  here  is  also  taken  as  1 .67  holding  times.  These 
curves  lie  higher  than  Kosten's  values  for  two  reasons.  First,  the  altered 
congestion  due  to  return  calls  is  allowed  for;  and  second,  with  exponential 
returns  nearly  two-thirds  of  the  return  times  are  shorter  than  the  aver- 
age, and  of  these,  the  shortest  ones  will  have  a  relatively  high  probability 
of  failure  upon  re-trying.  If  the  customers  were  to  return  with  exponen- 
tial times  after  waiting  an  average  of  only  0.2  holding  time  (e.g.,  30 
seconds  wait  for  150-second  calls)  the  TT^-curves  would  rise  markedly  to 
the  positions  shown  by  (4). 

Curves  (5)  and  (6)  give  the  proportions  of  time  that  all  paths  are  busy 
(equation  4)  under  the  T'F-formula  assumptions  corresponding  to  NC 
curves  (3)  and  (4)  respectively;  their  upward  displacement  from  the 
random  return  curves  (2)  reflects  the  disturbance  to  the  group  congestion 
produced  by  the  non-random  return  of  the  delayed  calls.  (The  limiting 
position  for  these  curves  is,  of  course,  given  by  Erlang's  E2  (or  C)  delay 
formula.)  As  would  be  expected,  curve  (6)  is  above  (5)  since  the  former 
contemplates  exponential  returns  with  average  of  0.2  holding  time,  as 
against  1.67  for  curve  (5).  Neither  the  (5)-curves  nor  the  open  dots  of 
constant  30-second  return  times  show  a  marked  increase  over  curves  (2). 
This  appears  to  explain  why  the  relationship  of  load  carried  versus  "NC 
existing"  (as  charted  in  Figs.  3  and  4)  was  found  so  insensitive  to  vari- 
able operating  procedures  in  handling  subsequent  attempts  in  toll  ring- 
down  operation,  and  again,  why  it  did  not  appreciably  change  under 
operator  dialing. 

Finally,  through  the  two  fields  of  curves  on  Fig.  7  is  indicated  the 
Poisson  summation  P{c,  L)  with  load  carried  L  used  as  the  entering 
variable.  The  fact  that  these  values  approach  closely  the  (2)  and  (3)  sets 
of  curves  over  a  considerable  range  of  NC's  should  reassure  those  who 
have  been  concerned  that  the  Poisson  engineering  tables  were  not  useful 
for  losses  larger  than  a  few  per  cent.* 

4.    SERVICE  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  DIRECT  DISTANCE  DIALING  BY  CUSTOMERS 

As  shown  by  the  TF-curves  (3)  on  Fig.  7,  the  attempt  failures  by  cus- 
tomers resulting  from  their  tendency  to  re-try  shortly  following  an  NC 

*  Reference  may  be  made  also  to  a  throwdown  by  C.  Clos  (Ref.  3)  using  the 
return  times  of  Fig.  6;  his  "%  NC"  results  agreed  closely  with  tlie  Poisson  pre- 
dictions. 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      437 

would  be  expected  to  exceed  slightly  the  values  for  completely  random 
re-trials.  These  particular  curves  are  based  on  a  re-trial  interval  of  1.67 
times  the  average  circuit-use  time.  Such  moderation  on  the  part  of  the 
customer  is  probably  attainable  through  instructional  literature  and 
other  means  if  the  customer  believes  the  "NC"  or  "busy"  to  be  caused 
by  the  called  party's  actually  using  his  telephone  (the  usual  case  in  local 
practice).  It  would  be  considerably  more  difficult,  however,  to  dissuade 
the  customer  from  re-trying  at  a  more  rapid  rate  if  the  circuit  NC's 
should  generally  approach  or  exceed  actual  called-party  busies,  a  con- 
dition of  which  he  would  sooner  or  later  become  aware.  His  attempts 
might  then  be  more  nearly  described  by  the  (4)  curves  on  Fig.  7  cor- 
responding to  an  average  exponential  return  of  only  0.2  holding  time — or 
e\en  higher.  Such  a  result  would  not  only  displease  the  user,  but  also 
result  in  the  requirement  of  increased  switching  control  equipment  to 
handle  many  more  wasted  attempts. 

If  subscribers  are  to  be  given  satisfactory  direct  dialing  access  to  the 
iiitertoll  trunk  network,  it  appears  then  that  the  probability  of  finding 
XC  even  in  the  busy  hours  must  be  kept  to  a  low  figure.  The  following 
engineering  objective  has  tentatively  been  selected:  The  calls  offered  to 
the  ^'final"  group  of  trunks  in  an  alternate  route  system  should  receive  no 
more  than  3  per  cent  NC(P.03)  during  the  network  busy  season  busy  hour. 
(If  there  are  no  alternate  routes,  the  direct  group  is  the  "final"  route.) 

Since  in  the  nationwide  plan  there  will  be  a  final  route  between  each 
of  some  2,600  toll  centers  and  its  next  higher  center,  and  the  majority 
of  calls  offered  to  high  usage  trunks  will  be  carried  without  trying 
their  final  route  (or  routes),  the  over-all  point-to-point  service,  while 
not  easy  to  estimate,  will  apparently  be  quite  satisfactory  for  cus- 
tomer dialing. 

5.    ECONOMICS    OF   TOLL   ALTERNATE    ROUTING 

In  a  general  study  of  the  economics  of  a  nationwide  toll  switching  plan, 
made  some  years  ago  by  engineers  of  the  American  Telephone  and  Tele- 
graph Company,  it  was  concluded  that  a  toll  line  plant  sufficient  to  give 
ihe  then  average  level  of  service  (about  T-40)  with  ordinary  single-route 
procedures  could,  if  operated  on  a  multi-alternate  route  basis,  give  the 
desired  P.03  service  on  final  routes  with  little,  if  any,  increase  in  toll  line 
investment.*  On  the  other  hand  to  attain  a  similar  P.03  grade  of  service 
by  liberalizing  a  typical  intertoll  group  of  10  trunks  working  presently 


*  This,  of  course,  does  not  reflect  the  added  costs  of  the  No.  4  switching  equip- 
I  nient. 


438  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

at  a  T-40  grade  of  service  and  an  occupancy  of  0.81  would  recjuire  an 
increase  of  43  per  cent  (to  14.3  trunks),  with  a  corresponding  decrease 
in  occupancy  to  0.57.  The  possible  savings  in  toll  lines  with  alternate 
routing  are  therefore  considerable  in  a  system  which  must  pro\'ide  a 
service  level  satisfactory  for  customer  dialing. 

In  order  to  take  fullest  advantage  of  the  economies  of  alternate  rout- 
ing, present  plans  call  for  five  classes  of  toll  offices.  There  will  be  a  large 
number  of  so-called  End  Offices,  a  smaller  number  of  Toll  Centers,  and 
progressively  fewer  Primary  Centers  (about  150),  Sectional  Centers 
(about  40)  and  Regional  Centers  (9),  one  of  which  will  be  the  National 
Center,  to  be  used  as  the  "home"  switching  point  of  the  other  eight 
Regional  Centers.*  Primary  and  higher  centers  will  be  arranged  to  per- 
form automatic  alternate  routing  and  are  called  Control  Switching 
Points  (CSP's).  Each  class  of  office  will  "home"  on  a  higher  class  of 
office  (not  necessarily  the  next  higher  one) ;  the  toll  paths  between  them 
are  called  "final  routes."  As  described  in  Section  4,  these  final  routes  will 
be  provided  to  give  low  delays,  so  that  between  each  principal  toll  point 
and  ever}'  other  one  there  will  be  available  a  succession  of  approximatelj' 
P.03  engineered  trunk  groups.  Thus  if  the  more  direct  and  heavily  loaded 
interconnecting  paths  commonly  provided  are  busj-  there  will  still  be  a 
good  chance  of  making  immediate  connection  over  final  routes. 

Fig.  8  illustrates  the  manner  in  which  automatic  alternate  routing  will 
operate  in  comparison  with  present-day  operator  routing.  On  a  call  from 
Syracuse,  X.  Y.,  to  Miami,  Florida,  (a  distance  of  some  1,250  miles), 
under  present-day  operation,  the  Syracuse  operator  signals  Albany,  and 
requests  a  trunk  to  Miami.  With  T-schedule  operation  the  Syracuse- 
Miami  traffic  might  be  expected  to  encounter  as  much  as  25  per  cent  NC 
during  the  busy  hour,  and  approximately  4  per  cent  NC  for  the  whole 
day,  producing  perhaps  a  two-minute  over-all  speed  of  serA-ice  in  the 
busy  season. 

With  the  proposed  automatic  alternate  routing  plan,  all  points  on  the 
chart  will  have  automatic  switching  systems. f  The  customer  (or  the 
operator  until  customer  dialing  arrangements  are  completed)  will  dial  a 
ten-digit  code  (three-digit  area  code  305  for  Florida  plus  the  listed 
Miami  seven-digit  telephone  number)  into  the  Jiiachine  at  Syracuse. 
The  various  routes  which  then  might  conceivably  be  tried  automatically 


*  Sec  the  hihlio^rajjliy  ( i);irticulMily  Pilliod  and  Truitt)  for  details  of  tlie 
general  trunkinji  plan. 

t  The  notation  uscmI  on  the  diagram  of  Fig.  8  is:  Opon  firclo  —  Primary  Center 
(Syracuse,  Miamij;  Triangle  —  Sectional  Center  (All)an\-,  Jacksonville);  Sqviare 
—  Regional  Center  (White  Plains,  Atlanta,  St.  Louis;  St.  Louis  is  also  the  Na- 
tional Center). 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      439 


PRESENT  OPERATOR 

ROUTING  '^^ 


AUTOMATIC  ALTERNATE 
ROUTING 


white   Plains 
N.  Y.) 


Miami 


Miami 


Fig.  8  —  Present  and  proposed  methods  of  handling  a  call  from  Syracuse,  N.  Y., 
to  Miami,  Florida. 


are  shown  on  the  diagram  numbered  in  the  order  of  trial;  in  this  par- 
ticular layout  shown,  a  maximum  of  eleven  circuit  groups  could  be  tested 
for  an  idle  path  if  each  high  usage  group  should  be  found  NC.  Dotted 
lines  show  the  high  usage  roiites,  which  if  found  busy  will  overflow  to  the 
final  groups  represented  by  solid  lines.  The  switching  ecjuipment  at  each 
point  upon  finding  an  idle  circuit  passes  on  the  required  digits  to  the 
next  machine. 

While  the  routing  possibilities  shown  are  factual,  only  in  rare  instances 
would  a  call  be  completed  over  the  final  route  via  St.  Louis.  Even  in  the 
busy  season  busy  hour  just  a  small  portion  of  the  calls  would  be  expected 
to  be  switched  as  many  as  three  times.  And  only  a  fraction  of  one  per 
cent  of  all  calls  in  the  busy  hour  should  encounter  NC.  As  a  result  the 
service  will  be  fast.  When  calls  are  handled  by  a  toll  operator,  the  cus- 


440 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL;    MARCH    1956 


tomer  will  not  ordinarily  need  to  hang  up  when  NC  is  obtained.  When 
he  himself  dials,  a  second  trial  after  a  short  wait  following  NC  should 
have  a  high  probability  of  success. 

Not  many  situations  will  be  as  complex  as  shown  in  Fig.  8;  commonly 
several  of  the  links  between  centers  will  be  missing,  the  particular  ones 
retained  having  been  chosen  from  suitable  economic  studies.  A  large 
number  of  switching  arrangements  Avill  be  no  more  involved  than  the 
illustrative  one  shown  in  Fig.  9(a),  centering  on  the  Toll  Center  of 
Bloomsburg,  Pennsylvania.  The  dashed  lines  indicate  high  usage  groups 
from  Bloomsburg  to  surrounding  toll  centers;  since  Bloomsburg  "homes" 
on  Scranton  this  is  a  final  route  as  denoted  by  the  solid  line.  As  an  exam- 
ple of  the  operation,  consider  a  call  at  Bloomsburg  destined  for  Williams- 
port.  Upon  finding  all  direct  trunks  busy,  a  second  trial  is  made  via 
Harrisburg;  and  should  no  paths  in  the  Harrisburg  group  be  available, 
a  third  and  final  trial  is  made  through  the  Scranton  group. 

In  considering  the  traffic  flow  of  a  network  such  as  illustrated  at 
Bloomsburg  it  is  convenient  to  employ  the  conventional  form  of  a  two- 
stage  graded  multiple  having  "legs"  of  varying  sizes  and  traffic  loads 
individual  to  each,  as  shown  in  Fig.  9(b).  Here  only  the  circuits  im- 
mediately outgoing  from  the  toll  center  are  shown;  the  parcels  of  traffic 


(a)  GEOGRAPHICAL    LAYOUT 
WILLIAMSPORT  I 


SCRANTON 


BLOOMSBURG 
HARRISBURG  PA. 

(b)  GRADED    MULTIPLE   SCHEMATIC 


FRACKVILLE 

HAZLETON 

WILKES- 
BARRE 


PHILADELPHIA 


FINAL    GROUP    TO   SCRANTON 


H.U.  GROUP   TO   HARRISBURG 


.1    M    t 


I 


NO.  TRUNKS   IN   H.U.  GROUPS  I      [T]  [jF]  [^  [A]  [T]  [28 1  rsl  m 

LOAD    TO    AND  FROM  ^^^      .^.      ^^     ^  

DISTANT   OFFICE    (CCS)  "^^^  '^'     ^^    ^'^^    ^^'     '^0    '^3   836   228    154 

DISTANT   OFFICE  SCRN  HBG  PTVL   SHKN  SNBY  WMPT  FKVL    HZN  WKSB  PHLA 


Fig.  9 
liiirg,  Pa. 


Aulonialic  ;ilU'riiaie  routing  for  direct  distance  dialing  at  Blooms- 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN    THE   U.    S.   A.      441 

calculated  for  each  further  connecting  route  will  be  recorded  as  part  of 
the  offered  load  for  consideration  when  the  next  higher  switching  center 
is  engineered.  It  is  implicitly  assumed  that  a  call  which  has  selected  one 
of  the  alternate  route  paths  will  be  successful  in  finding  the  necessary 
paths  available  from  the  distant  switching  point  onward.  This  is  not 
quite  true  but  is  believed  generally  to  be  close  enough  for  engineering 
piu'poses,  and  permits  ignoring  the  return  attempt  problem. 

6.    NEW  PROBLEMS  IN  THE  ENGINEERING  AND  ADMINISTRATION  OF  INTER- 
TOLL   GROUPS   RESULTING   FROM   ALTERNATE   ROUTING 

With  the  greatly  increased  teamwork  among  groups  of  intertoll  trunks 
which  supply  overflow  calls  to  an  alternate  route,  an  unexpected  increase 
or  flurry  in  the  offered  load  to  any  one  can  adversely  affect  the  service  to 
all.  The  high  efficiency  of  the  alternate  route  networks  also  reduces  their 
overload  carrying  ability.  Conversely,  the  influence  of  an  underprovision 
of  paths  in  the  final  alternate  route  may  be  felt  by  many  groups  which 
overflow  to  it.  With  non-alternate  route  arrangements  only  the  single 
groups  having  these  flurries  would  be  affected. 

Administratively,  an  alternate  route  trunk  layout  may  well  prove 
easier  to  monitor  day  by  day  than  a  large  number  of  separate  and  in- 
dependent intertoll  groups,  since  a  close  check  on  the  service  given  on 
the  final  routes  only  may  be  sufficient  to  insure  that  all  customers  are 
being  served  satisfactorily.  When  rearrangements  are  indicated,  how- 

SIMPLE  PROGRESSIVE 

GRADED  MULTIPLE  GRADED  MULTIPLE 

(a)  (b) 


t      t      t     t  t  t  tt    t  t  tl 

ILLUSTRATIVE    INTERLOCAL    AND  INTERTOLL 
ALTERNATE    ROUTE    TRUNKING    ARRANGEMENT; 

(c)  (d) 


t    t      t   t    t  =    ,-""    ^ 

tttl It  ttl   1   t 

Fig.  10  —  Graded  multi])los  .•nid  altornaic  route  trunking  nrrangeinoiits. 


I 


442  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

ever,  the  determination  of  the  proper  place  to  take  action,  and  the  de 
sirable  extent,  may  sometimes  be  difficult  to  determine.  Suitable  traffic 
measuring  devices  must  be  provided  with  these  latter  problems  in  mind 
For  engineering  purposes,  it  will  be  highly  desirable: 

(1)  To  be  able  to  estimate  the  load-service  relationships  with  any 
specified  loads  offered  to  a  particular  intertoll  alternate  routing  network; 
and 

(2)  To  know  the  day-to-day  busy  hour  variations  in  the  various 
groups'  offered  loads  during  the  busy  season,  so  that  the  general  grade  of 
service  given  to  customers  can  be  estimated. 

The  balance  of  this  paper  will  review  the  studies  which  have  been  made 
in  the  Bell  System  toward  a  practicable  method  for  predicting  the  grade 
of  service  given  in  an  alternate  route  network  under  any  given  loads. 
Analyses  of  the  day-to-day  load  variations  and  their  effects  on  customer 
dialing  service  are  currently  being  made,  and  will  be  reported  upon  later. 

?; 

7.    LOAD-SERVICE   RELATIONSHIPS  IN  ALTERNATE    ROUTE   SYSTEMS 

In  their  simplest  form,  alternate  route  systems  appear  as  symmetrical 
graded  multiples,  as  shown  in  Fig.  10(a)  and  10(b).  Patterns  such  as 
these  have  long  been  used  in  local  automatic  systems  to  partially  over- 
come the  trunking  efficiency  limitations  imposed  by  limited  access 
switches.  The  traffic  capacity  of  these  arrangements  has  been  the  sub- 
ject of  much  study  by  theory  and  "throwdowns"  (simulated  traffic 
studies)  both  in  the  United  States  and  abroad.  Field  trials  have  sub- 
stantiated the  essential  accuracy  of  the  trunking  tables  which  have 
resulted. 

In  toll  alternate  route  systems  as  contemplated  in  America,  however, 
there  will  seldom  be  the  symmetry  of  pattern  found  in  local  graded 
multiples,  nor  does  maximum  switch  size  generally  produce  serious 
limitation  on  the  access.  The  ''legs"  or  first-choice  trunk  groups  will  vary 
widely  in  size;  likewise  the  number  of  such  groups  overflowing  calls 
jointly  to  an  alternate  route  may  cover  a  considerable  range.  In  all  cases 
a  given  group,  whether  or  not  a  link  of  an  alternate  route,  will  have  one 
or  more  parcels  of  traffic  for  which  it  is  the  first-choice  route.  [See  the 
right-hand  parcel  of  offered  traffic  on  Fig.  10(c).]  Often  this  first  routed 
traffic  will  Ijc  the  bulk  of  the  load  offered  to  the  group,  which  also  serves 
as  an  alternate  I'oute  for  other  traffic. 

The  simplest  of  the  approximate  formulas  developed  for  solving  the 
local  graded  multiple  problems  are  hopelessly  unwieldy  when  applied 
to  such  arrangements  as  shown  in  Fig.  10(d).  Likewise  it  is  impracticable  i 


THEORIES   FOR  TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      443 

to  solve  more  than  a  few  of  the  infinite  variety  of  arrangements  by  means 

of  "throwdowns." 

However,  for  both  engineering  (planning  for  future  trunk  provisions) 
I  and  administration  (current  operating)  of  trunks  in  these  multi-alternate 

routing  systems,  a  rapid,  simple,  but  reasonably  accurate  method  is 
(required.  The  basis  for  the  method  which  has  been  evolved  for  Bell 

System  use  will  be  described  in  the  following  pages. 

7.1.  The  "Peaked"  Character  of  Overflow  Traffic 

The  difficulty  in  predicting  the  load-service  relationship  in  alternate 
route  systems  has  lain  in  the  non-random  character  of  the  traffic  over- 
flowing a  first  set  of  paths  to  which  calls  may  have  been  randomly 
offered.  This  non-randomness  is  a  well  appreciated  phenomenon  among 
traffic  engineers.  If  adecjuate  trunks  are  provided  for  accommodating 
the  momentary  traffic  peaks,  the  time-call  level  diagram  may  appear 
as  in  Fig.  11(a),  (average  level  of  9.5  erlangs).  If  however  a  more  limited 
j  number  of  trunks,  say  a:  =  12,  is  provided,  the  peaks  of  Fig.  11(a)  will  be 
Ichpped,  and  the  overflow  calls  will  either  be  "lost"  or  they  may  be 
j  handled  on  a  subsequent  set  of  paths  y.  The  momentary  loads  seen  on  2/ 
then  appear  as  in  Fig.  11(b).  It  will  readily  be  seen  that  a  given  average 
i  load  on  the  y  trunks  will  have  quite  different  fluctuation  characteristics 
i  than  if  it  had  been  found  on  the  x  trunks.  There  will  be  more  occurrences 
of  large  numbers  of  calls,  and  also  longer  intervals  when  few  or  no  calls 
are  present.  This  gives  rise  to  the  expression  that  overflow  traffic  is 
"peaked." 

Peaked  traffic  requires  more  paths  than  does  random  traffic  to  operate 
at  a  specified  grade  of  delayed  or  lost  calls  service.  And  the  increase  in 
paths  required  will  depend  upon  the  degree  of  peakedness  of  the  traffic 
involved.  A  measure  of  peakedness  of  overflow  traffic  is  then  required 
which  can  be  easily  determined  from  a  knowledge  of  the  load  offered  and 
the  number  of  trunks  in  the  group  immediately  available. 

In  1923,  G.  W.  Kendrick,  then  with  the  American  Telephone  and 
I  Telegraph  Company,  undertook  to  solve  the  graded  multiple  problem 
■through  an  application  of  Erlang's  statistical  eciuilibrium  method.  His 
i  principal  contribution  (in  an  unpublished  memorandum)  was  to  set  up 
I  the  equations  for  describing  the  existence  of  calls  on  a  full  access  group 
\oi  X  -{-  y  paths,  arranged  so  that  arriving  calls  always  seek  service  first 
iu  the  .T-group,  and  then  in  the  ^/-group  when  the  x  are  all  busy. 

Let  f{m,  n)  be  the  probability  that  at  a  random  instant  m  calls  exist 
j  on  the  x  paths  and  n  calls  on  the  y  paths,  when  an  average  Poisson  load 


444 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


of  a  erlangs  is  submitted  to  the  x  -\-  y  paths.  The  general  state  equation 
for  all  possible  call  arrangements,  is 


(a*  +  m  +  n)f{m,  n)  =  (w  +  l)/(m  +  1,  n) 

+  (n  +  l)/(m,  w  +  1)  +  ajim  —  1,  n)  +  aj{x,  n  —  1)% 


(7) 


in  which  the  term  marked  {%)  is  to  be  included  only  when  m  =  x,  and 
*  indicates  that  the  a  in  this  term  is  to  be  omitted  when  in  -\-  n  =  x  -{-  y. 
m  and  n  may  take  values  only  in  the  intervals,  0  -^  m  ^  x;Q  -^  n  -^  y. 
As  written,  the  equation  represents  the  "lost  calls  cleared"  situation. 


(a)  RANDOM    TRAFFIC 


10  00  AM 


<  I 

if)  Q. 


a. 


2 
to 


10  00  A  M 


10  30 
TIME    OF    DAY 


(b)    PEAKED  OVERFLOW    TRAFFIC 


PI 

-^ 

10  30 
TIME   OF    DAY 


Fig.  11  —  Production  of  peakedness  in  overflow  traffic. 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      445 

By  choosing  x  -]-  y  large  compared  with  the  submitted  load  a  a  "lost 
calls  held"  situation  or  infinite-overflow-trunks  result  can  be  approached 
as  closely  as  desired. 

Kendrick  suggested  solving  the  series  of  simultaneous  equations  (7)  by 
determinants,  and  also  by  a  method  of  continued  fractions.  However 
little  of  this  numerical  work  was  actually  undertaken  until  several  years 
later. 

Early  in  1935  Miss  E.  V.  Wyckoff  of  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  be- 
came interested  in  the  solution  of  the  (x  -\-  1)(^/  +  1)  lost  calls  cleared 
simultaneous  equations  leading  to  all  terms  in  the  /(m,  n)  distribution. 
She  devised  an  order  of  substituting  one  equation  in  the  next  which  pro- 
vided an  entirely  practical  and  relatively  rapid  means  for  the  numerical 
solution  of  almost  any  set  of  these  equations.  By  this  method  a  con- 
siderable number  of  /(m,  n)  distributions  on  x,  y  type  multiples  with 
varying  load  levels  were  calculated. 

From  the  complete  m,  n  matrix  of  probabilities,  one  easily  obtains  the 
distribution  9m{n)  of  overflow  calls  when  exactly  m  are  present  on  the 
lower  group  of  x  trunks;  or  by  summing  on  m,  the  d{n)  distribution  with- 
out regard  to  m,  is  realized.  A  number  of  other  procedures  for  obtaining 
the/(m,  n)  values  have  been  proposed.  All  involve  lengthy  computations, 
very  tedious  for  solution  by  desk  calculating  machines,  and  most  do  not 
have  the  ready  checks  of  the  WyckofT-method  available  at  regular  points 
through  the  calculations. 

In  1937  Kosten^  gave  the  following  expression  for  /(m,  n) : 

/(»,  n)  =  (-  l)V.fe)  i  (i)  M^-      "f^'l.,  (8) 


i=0 


(Pi^l{x)ipi(x) 


where 


(po{x)  = 


x^—a 

a  e 


xl 


;  and  for  i  >  0, 


;=o  \         J         /  (.^•  -  J)i 


These  equations,  too,  are  laborious  to  calculate  if  the  load  and  num- 
1  K^rs  of  trunks  are  not  small.  It  would,  of  course,  be  possible  to  program  a 
modern  automatic  computer  to  do  this  work  with  considerable  rapidity. 

The  corresponding  application  of  the  statistical  equilibrium  equations 
to  the  graded  multiple  problem  was  visualized  by  Kendrick  who,  how- 
ever, went  only  so  far  as  to  write  out  the  equation  for  the  three-trunk 


446  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

case  consisting  of  two  subgroups  of  one  trunk  each  and  one  common 
overflow  trunk. 

Instead  of  solving  the  enormously  elaborate  system  of  equations  de- 
scribing all  the  calls  which  could  simultaneously  be  present  in  a  large 
multiple,  several  ingenious  methods  of  convoluting  the 

X 

6(n)  =   Z/(w,  n) 

overflow  distributions  from  the  individual  legs  of  a  graded  multiple  have 
been  devised.  For  example,  for  the  multiple  of  Fig.  10(a),  the  probability 
of  loss  Pi  as  seen  by  a  call  entering  subgroup  number  i,  is  approximately, 

Pi  =  2  £  e.Ar)-rl^{z  -r)  +J:  d.Ar)  (9) 

r=0  z=y  T—y 

in  which  \l/{z  —  r)  is  the  probability  of  exactly  z  —  r  overflow  calls  being 
present,  or  wanting  to  be  present,  on  the  alternate  route  from  all  the 
subgroups  except  the  zth,  and  with  no  regard  for  the  numbers  of  calls 
present  in  these  subgroups.  The  ^x,i(^)  =  jiixi ,  r)  term,  of  course,  con- 
templates all  paths  in  the  particular  originating  call's  subgroup  being 
occupied,  forcing  the  new  call  arriving  in  subgroup  i  to  advance  to  the 
alternate  route.  This  corresponds  to  the  method  of  solving  graded  mul- 
tiples developed  by  E.  C.  Molina^  but  has  the  advantage  of  overcoming 
the  artificial  "no  holes  in  the  multiple"  assumption  which  he  made. 
Similar  calculating  procedures  have  been  suggested  by  Kosten.*  These 
computational  methods  doubtless  yield  useful  estimates  of  the  resulting 
service,  and  for  the  limited  numbers  of  multiple  arrangements  which 
might  occur  in  within-office  switching  trains  (particularly  ones  of  a  sym- 
metrical variety)  such  procedures  might  be  practicable.  But  it  would  be 
far  too  laborious  to  obtain  the  individual  overflow  distributions  Q{n), 
and  then  convolute  them  for  the  large  variety  of  loads  and  multiple 
arrangements  expected  to  be  met  in  toll  alternate  routing. 

7.2.  Approximate  Description  of  the  Character  of  Overflow  Traffic 

It  was  natural  that  various  approximate  procedures  should  be  tried  in 
the  attempt  to  obtain  solutions  to  the  general  loss  formula  sufficiently 
accurate  for  engineering  and  study  purposes.  The  most  ol^vious  of  these 
is  to  calculate  the  lower  moments  or  semi-invariants  of  the  loads  over- 
flowing th(;  sul)groups,  and  from  them  construct  approximate  fitting 

*  Kosten  gives  the  above  approximation  (9),  which  he  calls  Wb^,  Jis  an  upper 
limit  to  the  blocking.  He  also  gives  a  lower  limit ,  Wr,  in  which  z  =  //  throughout 
(References  4,  5). 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      447 

I  distributions  for  6{n)  mid  dx(;n).  Since  each  such  overflow  is  independent 
I  of  the  others,  they  may  be  combined  additively  (or  convokited),  to  ob- 
[tain  the  corresponchng  total  distribution  of  calls  appearing  before  the 
,  I  alternate  route  (or  common  group) .  It  may  further  be  possible  to  obtain 
I  [an  approximate  fitting  distribution  to  the  sum-distribution  of  the  over- 
flow calls. 

The  ordinary  moments  about  the  0  point  of  the  subgroup  overflow 
distribution,  when  m  of  the  x  paths  are  busy,  are  found  by 

V 

ta'im)  =   2  njim,  n)  (10) 

When  an  infinite  number  of  |/-paths  is  assumed,  the  resulting  expres- 
sions for  the  mean  and  variance  are  found  to  be:* 
Number  of  x-paths  busy  unspecified :'\ 

Mean  =  a  =  a-Ei,^{a)  (11) 

Variance  =  v  =  a[l  —  a  -{-  a{x  -\-  I  -\-  a  —  a)'^]  (12) 

All  x-paths  occupiedi 

Mean  =  a^^  =  a[x  -  a  +  1  -\-  aEiMf^  (13) 

Variance  =  v^  =  ax[l  —  ax  +  2a(x  +  2  +  a^  —  a)~^]  (14) 

Equations  (11)  and  (12)  have  been  calculated  for  considerable  ranges 
1  of  offered  load  a  and  paths  x.  Figs.  12  and  13  are  graphs  of  these  results. 
i  For  example  when  a  load  of  4  erlangs  is  submitted  to  5  paths,  the  aver- 
I  age  overflow  load  is  seen  to  be  a  =  0.80  erlang,  the  same  value,  of 
I  course,  as  determined  through  a  direct  application  of  the  Erlang  Ei 
formula.  During  the  time  that  all  x  paths  are  busy,  however,  the  over- 
flow load  wdll  tend  to  exceed  this  general  level  as  indicated  by  the  value 
of  ax  =  1.41  erlangs  calculated  from  (13).  Similarly  the  variance  of  the 
overflow  load  will  tend  to  increase  when  the  x-paths  are  fully  occupied, 

*  The  derivation  of  these  equations  is  given  in  Appendix  I. 
t  The  skewness  factor  may  also  be  of  interest : 


ilz 


l^i: 


3/2 


^"  +  "-"^"'  +a^      (15) 


x+1  +a-  a  \x  +  2\{x-a)'^^-2{x-a)  +  x  +  2  +  {x^-2-a)a 

+  3(1  -a)   I  +  a(l  -  a)(l  -  2a) 


o 


K:i'  \ 


.  .  .  t  i   >    . 

wm 

Mm 

^ 

'  \''  '^ 

'mV      \ 

I  ■  .  \ 

m 

\ 


^. 

\ 

\ 

q 

o 

6 

|r  ly\v\\ 


\ 

.  .  \ 

•  ^  \ 

\ 

\ 

■    ■■    \, 

r- 

'\ 

iD 

o 

'^     0)     '^ 

*        \ 

« 

, 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

o 


\ 

F?^ 


\ 

\ 

X, 

a 

v^ 

X 

V^ 

'S 

■f 

'x^ 

^^ 

ro 

"^ 

■  ■■■^ 

■^ 

."-^.^ 

"■\ 

^^N 

"^ 

z 
< 

_] 
a: 

LU 


q: 

LU 


a   ■ 

<    i 

-      o   : 


<  ) 

ir  ■ 

>  ■; 

<  . 


lO  <o 


o 


o        r»        lO    'f      ro         (M 


in    ^f 
6    6 


6 


6 


o 
6 


o 
6 


o    o 


o 


o 


o    o      o        o 


o 
6 


Re)  ''''3'e=1  s^Nviaa  Ni'sHivd  x  ONissvd  avon  39Vd3A\f'=» 

448 


o 

in 


6 


\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

,  o 


'N 


CO 


IHH        t     t  W 


It 
1 


\'  , 

\ 

V 

'\    , 

■\^ 

\ 

■A' 

•    ^      \ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\, 

(M  ' 


II 


\ 


\ 


\ 

\ 

^,^ 

\ 

o 

T3 

\ 

« 

Lh 

O 

^ 

n 

c 

\, 

o3 

If) 

1^ 

o 

'^i 

"X 

z 

< 

_1 

O 

o 

a. 

T— 1 

■ 

<^ 

2 

r-< 

■~ 

+3 

Q 

OJ 

cr 

o 

\ 

00 

UJ 
LL 
IL 

o 

O 

X 

< 

O 

^ 

X 

o 

_] 

q3 

ID 
OJ 

IIJ 
0) 

< 

LU 

> 

o 

o 

■■,,. 

II 

<o 

bO 

a> 

> 

< 

(M 

1 

t\J 

T— 1 

X 

o 

bJQ 

S 

^x. 

X           ■   v>r.m,^Mt«.f,.i.,sxrrfri 

o       o    o      o 


~       p      6    6     6        d  d 

S5NVla3   Nl  'SHlVd  X  ONISSVd    QVOl    30Va3AV  =  » 


449 


SHlVd  X  ONISSVd  avOI    dO   30NVIHVA  =  A 


450 


o 


in 
6 


■    ^^ 

1:1 

i:, 

!• 

>       o       o 


X 


o 
ro 


o 


\ 


X 


\ 


\ 


\ 


o 


\- 

\ 

'  \ 

\ 

s 

V 

■■V. 

V 


x 


N 


\ 


\ 


\ 

\ 

X 

\ 

\  . 

\ 

^ 

V      • 

X 


\ 


CM 
ro  in 

o 
z 
< 

_l 
a. 
oi 

o 

n  z 

Q 
lU 

cc 

ico  li- 
ifvj  o 

i      a 
< 

o 

_i 


UJ 

(M  ^ 

CK 

> 
< 


o 


■n  \ 


\ 

', 

' 

II 


o        t--       vo  n         r^ 

SHiVd   X   ONISSVd    avO"l    dO   30NVIbVA=A 

451 


q         r~;        m     ^       n 

-       6      6    6     6 


6 


o 

bO 

C 


O 


O 


O 

> 

o 


o 

a 
•I— I 


1— t 
bi) 


452  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

as  shown  by  ?;  =  1.30,  and  Vx  =  1.95.  In  all  cases  the  variances  v  and  Vx 
will  exceed  the  variance  of  corresponding  Poisson  traffic  (which  would 
have  variances  of  a  and  ax  respectively). 

7.2.1.  A  Prohahility  Distribution  for  Overflow  Traffic 

It  would  be  of  interest  to  be  able,  given  the  first  several  descriptive 
parameters  of  any  traffic  load  (such  as  the  mean  and  variance  and  skew- 
ness  factors  of  the  overflow  from  a  group  of  trunks),  to  construct  an 
approximate  probability  distribution  d{n)  which  would  closely  describe 
the  true  momentary  distribution  of  simultaneous  calls.  Any  proposed 
fitting  distribution  for  the  overflow  from  random  traffic  offered  to  x 
trunks,  can,  of  course,  be  compared  with  .     ^ 

X 

determined  from  (7)  or  (8). 

Suitable  fitting  curves  should  give  probabilities  for  all  possitive  in- 
tegral values  of  the  variable  (including  zero) ,  and  have  sufficient  unspeci- 
fied constants  to  accommodate  the  parameters  selected  for  describing 
the  distribution.  Moreover,  the  higher  moments  of  a  fitting  distribution 
should  not  diverge  too  radically  from  those  of  the  true  distribution ;  that 
is,  the  "natural  shapes"  of  fitting  and  true  distributions  should  be  simi- 
lar. Particularly  desirable  would  be  a  fitting  distribution  form  derived 
with  some  attention  to  the  physical  circumstances  causing  the  ebb  and 
flow  of  calls  in  an  overflow  situation.  The  following  argument  and  der- 
ivation undertake  to  achieve  these  desiderata.* 

A  Poisson  distribution  of  offered  traffic  is  produced  by  a  random  arrival 
of  calls.  The  assumption  is  made  or  implied  that  the  probability  of  a  new 
arrival  in  the  next  instant  of  time  is  quite  independent  of  the  number 
currently  present  in  the  system.  When  this  randomness  (and  correspond- 
ing independence)  are  disturbed  the  resulting  distribution  will  no  longer 
be  Poisson.  The  first  important  deviation  from  the  Poisson  would  be 
expected  to  appear  in  a  change  from  variance  =  mean,  to  variance  ^ 


*  A  two-parameter  function  which  has  the  ability  to  fit  quite  well  a  wide  variety 
of  true  overflow  distributions,  has  the  form 

t(n)  =  Kin  +  l)''e-^(''+i) 

in  which  K  is  the  normalizing  constant.  The  distribution  is  displaced  one  unit 
from  the  usual  discrete  generalized  exponential  form,  so  that  ^(0)  9^  0.  The  ex- 
pression, however,  has  little  rationale  for  being  selected  a  priori  as  a  suitable 
fitting  function. 


I 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      453 

mean.  Corresponding  changes  in  the  higher  moments  would  also  be 
expected. 

WTiat  would  be  the  physical  description  of  a  cause  system  with  a  vari- 
ance smaller  or  larger  than  the  Poisson?  If  the  variance  is  smaller,  there 
must  be  forces  at  work  which  retard  the  call  arrival  rate  as  the  number 
of  calls  recently  offered  exceeds  a  normal,  or  average,  figure,  and  which 
increase  the  arrival  rate  when  the  number  recently  arrived  falls  below 
the  normal  level.  Conversely,  the  variance  will  exceed  the  Poisson's 
.should  the  tendencies  of  the  forces  be  reversed.*  This  last  is,  in  fact,  a 
rough  description  of  the  incidence  rates  for  calls  overflowing  a  group  of 
trunks. 

Since  holding  times  are  attached  to  and  extend  from  the  call  arrival 
instants,  calls  are  enabled  to  project  their  influence  into  the  future;  that 
is,  the  presence  of  a  considerable  number  of  calls  in  a  system  at  any  in- 
stant reflects  their  having  arrived  in  recent  earlier  time,  and  now  can  be 
used  to  modify  the  current  rate  of  call  arrival. 

Let  the  probability  of  a  call  originating  in  a  short  interval  of  time  dt  be 

Po.n  =  [a  +  (n  —  a)co(n)]  dt 

where       n  =  number  of  calls  present  in  the  system  at  time  t, 

a  =  base  or  average  arrival  rate  of  calls  per  unit  time,  and 
w(n)  =  an  arbitrary  function  which  regulates  the  modification  in 
call  origination  rate  as  the  number  of  calls  rises  above 
or  falls  below  a. 
Correspondingly,  let  the  probability  that  one  of  n  calls  will  end  in  the 
short  interval  of  time  dt  be 

which  will  be  satisfied  in  the  case  of  exponential  call  holding  times,  with 
mean  unity.  Following  the  usual  Erlang  procedure,  the  general  statistical 
equilibrium  equation  is 


(16) 


Jin)    =   /(n)[(l     -    Po.n){l    -    Pe,n)\    +  /(«    "     l)Po,n-l(l    "    Pe.n-l) 

-Vj{n+  1)(1  -  Po.„+i)P,,„+i 
which  gives 

(Po,„  +  P.,„)/(n)  =  Po,«-i/(n  -  1)  +  Pe,n+xKn  +  1) 

i  ignoring  terms  of  order  higher  than  the  first  in  dt. 

*  The  same  thinking  lias  been  used  by  Vaiilot^  for  decreasing  the  call  arrival 
I  rate  according  to  the  number  momentaril}^  present;  and  by  Lundquist^  for  both 
increasing  and  decreasing  the  arrival  rate. 


454  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


(17) 


Or, 

[a  +  (n  —  a)w(?i)  +  ??.]/(n) 

=  [a  +  (n  -a-  l)co(n  -  l)]/(/^  -  1)  +  (n  +  l)/(7i  +  1) 

The  choice  of  aj(n)  will  determine  the  solution  of  (17).  Most  simply, 
co(n)  =  k,  making  the  variation  from  the  average  call  arrival  rate  directly- 
proportional  to  the  deviation  in  numbers  of  calls  present  from  their 
average  number.  In  this  case,  the  solution  for  an  unlimited  trunk  group 
becomes,  with  a'  =  a{l  —  k), 

a  (a   +  k)  -■■  [a   +  {n  -  1)A;] 

fin)  =  


n! 


^^    ,    ,    a' (a'  +  k)    ,    a' (a'  +  k)(a'  +  2k)    , 
1  +  «   H ^t; H ^ TT, + 


(18) 


2!  '  3! 

which  may  also  be  written  after  setting  a"  =  a'/k  =  a(l  —  k)/k,  as 

a'ia'  +  1)  •  •  •  [a"  +  (n  -  1)]A;" 
fin)  =  


n! 


(19); 


(1  -  k)- 
The  generating  function  (g.f.)  of  (19)  is 


Z/(n)r  = 


(1  -  kT)-"" 


n=0  (1    -    k)--" 

which  is  recognized  as  that  for  the  negative  binomial,  as  distinguished 
from  the  g.f., 

P 


(i  +  ?  tX 


(1/g)^ 

for  the  positive  binomial. 

The  first  four  descriptive  parameters  of /(w)  are: 


Order 

Moment  about  Mean 

Descriptive  Parameter 

1 

Ml 

=  0 

Mean  =  n  =  a 

(20) 

2 

M2 

=  variance,  v  =  a/(l  —  k) 

Std  Devn,  <r  =  [a/(l  -  fc)]'/2 

(21) 

3 

f^a 

a(l  +  k) 
(1  -  fc)^ 

Skewness,  \/sT  —       —      ,  , 

(22) 

4 

M4 

3a2(l  -  A0  +  a(fc2+4A;  +  l) 

M4               A;2  +  4fc  +  1 

Kurtosis,  /3.,  =  -  =  3  +  —7^ ry- 

o-*                 a(l  —  k) 

(23) 

(1  -  fc)3 

I 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE    U.    S.   A.      455 

Since  only  two  constants,  a  and  k,  need  specification  in  (18)  or  (19), 
the  mean  and  variance  are  sufficient  to  fix  the  distribution.  That  is,  with 
the  mean  /7  and  variance  v  known, 

a  =  ,7         or        a'  =  n(l  -  k)  =  if/v,        or        a"  =  n(l  -  k)/k     (24) 

A:  =  1  -  a/y  =  1  -  n/v.  (25) 

The  probability  density  distribution  f(n)  is  readily  calculated  from 
(19);  the  cumulative  distribution  G(^n)  also  may  be  found  through  use 
of  the  Incomplete  Beta  Function  tables  since 

G(^n)  =  hi7i  -  l,a") 

(26) 
=  h(n  -  l,a(l  -  k)/k) 

The  goodness  with  which  the  negative  binomial  of  (19)  fits  actual  dis- 
tributions of  overflow  calls  requires  some  investigation.  Perhaps  a  more 
elaborate  expression  for  co(n)  than  a  constant  k  in  (17)  is  required.  Three 
comparisons  appear  possible:  (1),  comparison  with  a  variety  of  0«(n) 
distributions  with  exactly  m  calls  on  the  x  trunks,  or  d{n)  with  m  unspeci- 
fied, (obtained  by  solving  the  statistical  equilibrium  equations  (7)  for  a 
divided  group) ;  (2),  comparison  with  simulation  or  "throwdown"  results; 
and  (3),  comparison  with  call  distributions  seen  on  actual  trunk  groups. 
These  are  most  easily  performed  in  the  order  listed.* 

Co7nparison  of  Negative  Binomial  with  True  Overflow  Distributions 

Figs.  14  to  17  show  various  comparisons  of  the  negative  binomial  dis- 
tribution with  true  overflow  distributions.  Fig.  14  gives  in  cumulative 
form  the  cases  of  5  erlangs  offered  to  1,  2,  5,  and  10  trunks.  The  true 


j  =  n 


distributions  (shown  as  solid  lines)  are  obtained  by  solving  the  difference 
equations  (7)  in  the  manner  described  in  Section  7.1.  The  negative  bi- 
nomial distributions  (shown  dashed)  are  chosen  to  have  the  same  mean 
and  variance  as  the  several  F{^n)  cases  fitted.  The  dots  shown  on 


*  Comparison  could  also  be  made  after  equating  means  and  variances  respec- 
tively, between  the  higher  moments  of  the  overflow  traffic  beyond  x  trunks  and 
the  corresponding  negative  binomial  moments:  e.g.,  the  skewness  given  by  (15) 
can  be  compared  with  the  negative  binomial  skewness  of  (22).  The  difficulty  here 
is  that  one  is  unable  to  judge  whether  the  disparity  between  the  two  distribution 
functions  as  described  by  differences  in  their  higher  parameters  is  significant  or 
not  for  traffic  engineering  purposes. 


456 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


the  figure  are  for  random  (Poisson)  traffic  having  the  same  mean  values 
as  the  /''  distributions.  The  negative  binomial  provides  excellent  fits 
down  to  cumulated  probabilities  of  0.01,  with  a  tendency  thereafter  to 
give  somewhat  larger  values  than  the  true  ones.  The  Poisson  agreement 
is  good  only  for  the  overflow  from  a  single  trunk,  as  might  have  been 
anticipated,  the  divergence  rapidly  increasing  thereafter. 

Fig.  15  corresponds  with  the  cases  of  Fig.  14  except  that  the  true  over- 
flow Fxi^n)  distributions  for  the  conditional  situation  of  all  .r-paths 
busy,  are  fitted.  Again  the  negative  binomial  is  seen  to  give  a  good  agree- 
ment down  to  0.01  probability,  with  somewhat  too-high  estimates  for 
larger  values  of  the  simultaneous  overflow  calls  n. 

Fig.  16  shows  additional  comparisons  of  overflow  and  negative  bi- 
nomial distributions.  As  before,  the  agreement  is  quite  satisfactory  to 
0.01  probability,  the  negative  binomial  thereafter  tending  to  give  some- 
what high  values. 

On  Fig.  17  are  compared  the  individual  6(n)  density  distributions  for 
several  cases.  The  agreement  of  the  negative  binomial  with  the  true 
distribution  is  seen  to  be  uniformly  good.  The  dots  indicate  the  random 
(Poisson)  individual  term  distribution  corresponding  to  the  a  =  9.6  case- 


1.0 

"T*^ 

;J-^ 

— 

TRUE    DISTRIBUTION 

\ 

^^^^^\- 

_ 



NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 

\ 

<^ 

• 

\ 

FITTING    DISTRIBUTION 

CORRESPONDING 
RANDOM  TRAFFIC 

0.1 

-\ 

\ 

> 

v 

\ 

_     \ 

•    \ 

•\ 

\ 

n) 

\ 

\     ^ 

\ 

»  \\     \ 

\                     • 

\ 

^  V  \ 

0.01 

- 

\ 

V5 

•  v\ 

\s:=io 

\\ 

\\   \ 

. 

^ 

V              \>    V 

•       \ 

• 

\  ^^     \  n^ 

0.001 

_J M       \   i           1 \   l>    \V 1 1 

0       t       2      3      4       5      6      7      8       9      10     11      12     13     14     15 
n  =  NUMBER    OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 

Fig.  14  —  Probability  distributions  of  overflow  traffic  with  5  erlangs  offered  to 
1,  2,  5,  and  10  trunks,  fitted  by  negative  binomial. 


I 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.   S.   A.      457 

the  agreement,  of  course,  is  poor  since  the  non-randomness  of  the  over- 
flow here  is  marked,  having  an  average  of  1.88  and  a  variance  of  3.84. 

Comparison  of  Negative  Binomial  with  Overflow  Distributions  Observed 
hi/  llirowdoivns  and  on  Actual  Trunk  Groups 

Fig.  18  shows  a  comparison  of  the  negative  binomial  with  the  over- 
How  distributions  from  four  direct  groups  as  seen  in  throwdown  studies, 
'ilie  agreement  over  the  range  of  group  sizes  from  one  to  fifteen  trunks  is 
seen  to  be  excellent.  The  assumption  of  randomness  (Poisson)  as  shown 
by  the  dot  values  is  clearly  unsatisfactory  for  overflows  beyond  more 
than  two  or  three  trunks. 

A  number  of  switch  counts  made  on  the  final  group  of  an  operating 
toll  alternate  routing  system  at  Newark,  New  Jersey,  during  periods 
when  few  calls  were  lost,  have  also  shown  good  agreement  with  the  neg- 
ative binomial  distribution. 

7.2.2.  A  Probability  Distribution  for  Combined  Overflow  Traffic  Loads 

It  has  been  shown  in  Section  7.2.1  that,  at  least  for  load  ranges  of  wide 
interest,  the  negative  binomial  with  but  two  parameters,  chosen  to  agree 


Fx(§n) 


0.01 


0.001 


TION 

OMIAL 
BUTION 


0       I       2      3      4       5      6      7       8      9      10      11     12     13     14     15 
n=  NUMBER   OF   SIMULTANEOUS   CALLS 


Fig.  15  —  Probability  distributions  of  overflow  traffic  with  5  erlangs  offered  to 
1,  2,  5,  and  10  trunivs,  when  all  trunks  are  busy;  fitted  by  negative  binomial. 


458 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


with  mean  and  variance,  gives  a  satisfactory  jfit  to  the  distribution  of 
traffic  overflowing  a  group  of  trunks.  It  is  now  possible,  of  course,  to 
convohite  the  various  overflows  from  any  number  of  groups  of  varying 
sizes,  to  obtain  a  combined  overflow  distribution.  This  procedure,  how- 
ever, would  be  very  clumsy  and  laborious  since  at  each  switching  point 
in  the  toll  alternate  route  system  an  entirely  difl"erent  layout  of  loads  and 
high  usage  groups  would  require  solution;  it  would  be  unfeasible  for 
practical  working. 

We  return  again  to  the  method  of  moments.  Since  the  overflows  of 
the  several  high  usage  groups  will,  in  general,  be  independent  of  one 
another,  the  iih  semi-invariants  Xi  of  the  individual  overflows  can  be 
combined  to  give  the  corresponding  semi-invariants  A,  of  their  total, 


Ai  —  iXi  +  2X1  + 


(27) 


Or,  in  terms  of  the  overflow  means  and  variances,  the  corresponding 
parameters  of  the  combined  loads  are 

Average  =  A'  =  ai  -{-  az  +  ■  ■  ■  (28) 

Variance  =  V  =  vi  +  V2  +  •  •  -  (29) 


TRUE    DISTRIBUTION 


NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 

FITTING   DISTRIBUTION 


0.001 


2      3      4       5      6       7       8      9      10     II      12     13     14    15 
n  =  NUMBER    OF  SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 


Fig.  16  —  Probability  distributions  of  overflow  traffic:  3  erlangs  offered  to  2 
trunks,  and  9.6  erlangs  offered  to  10  trunks. 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      459 

With  the  mean  and  variance  of  the  combined  overflows  now  deter- 
mined, the  negative  binomial  can  again  be  employed  to  give  an  approxi- 
mate description  of  the  distribution  of  the  simultaneous  calls  (p{z)  offered 
to  the  common,  or  alternate,  group. 

The  acceptability  of  this  procedure  can  be  tested  in  various  ways.  One 
way  is  to  examine  whether  the  convolution  of  several  negative  binomials 
(representing  overflows  from  individual  groups)  is  sufficiently  well  fitted 
by  another  negative  binomial  with  appropriate  mean  and  variance,  as 
found  above. 

It  can  easily  be  shown  that  the  convolution  of  several  negative  bi- 
nomials all  with  the  same  over-dispersion  (variance-to-mean  ratio)  but 
not  necessarily  the  same  mean,  is  again  a  negative  binomial.  Shown  in 
Table  I  are  the  distribution  components  and  their  parameters  of  two 
examples  in  which  the  over-dispersion  parameters  are  not  identical.  The 
third  and  fourth  semi-invariants  of  the  fitted  and  fitting  distributions,  are 
seen  to  diverge  considerably,  as  do  the  Pearsonian  skewness  and  kurtosis 
factors.  The  test  of  acceptability  for  traffic  fluctuation  description  comes 
in  comparing  the  fitted  and  fitting  distributions  which  are  shown  on 
Fig.  19.  Here  it  is  seen  that,  despite  what  might  appear  alarming  dis- 


0(n) 


0.01 


O.OOI 


TRUE    DISTRIBUTION 


NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 

FITTING   DISTRIBUTION 

•    RANDOM  TRAFFIC,    8=1.9 


a  =  9.6 

=  3.84 


I         2        3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10       II       12 

n  =  NUMBER    OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 


Fig.  17  —  Probability  density  distributions  of  overflow  traffic  from  10  trunks, 
fitted  by  negative  binomial. 


460 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOUENAL,    MARCH    1956 


parities  in  the  higher  semi-invariants,  the  agreement  for  practical  traffic 
purposes  is  very  good  indeed. 

Numerous  throwdown  checks  confirm  that  the  negative  binomial  em- 
ploying the  calculated  sum-overflow  mean  and  variance  has  a  wide  range 
over  which  the  fit  is  quite  satisfactory  for  traffic  description  purposes. 
Fig.  20  shows  three  such  trunking  arrangements  selected  from  a  con- 
siderable number  which  have  been  studied  by  the  simulation  method. 
Approximate!}^  5,000,  3,500,  and  580  calls  were  run  through  in  the  three 
examples,  respective!}' .  Tlie  overflow  parameters  obtained  !)y  experiment 
are  seen  to  agree  reasonably  well  with  the  theoretical  ones  from  (28) 
and  (29)  when  the  numbers  of  calls  processed  is  considered. 

On  Fig.  21  are  sliown,  for  the  first  arrangement  of  Fig.  20,  distributions 
of  simultaneous  offered  calls  in  each  subgroup  of  trunks  compared  with 
the  corresponding  Poisson;  the  agreement  is  satisfactory  as  was  to  be 
expected.  The  sum  distribution  of  the  overflows  from  the  eight  subgroups 
is  given  at  the  foot  of  the  figure.  The  superposed  Poisson,  of  course,  is  a 
poor  fit;  the  negative  binomial,  on  the  other  hand,  appears  quite  accept- 
able as  a  fitting  curve. 


1.0 
0.8 
0.6 


P  2n 


1   TRUNK-  a  =  \.22 


3  TRUNKS-  a  =  2.24 


0.4  - 


0.2  ■ 


1.0 


0.8  - 


0.6 
0.4 
0.2 


234501  234 

n=NUMBER   OF  SIMULTANEOUS  CALLS 


THEORY 

OBSD 

V\ 

( ) 

( ) 

AVG          0.67 

0.63 

VAR          0.77 

0.60 

i       •    RANDOM  TRAFFIC 

\,                     a  =  0.67 

THEORY        OBSD 

c- )    ( — 1 

u 

AVG         0.55 

0.51 

VAR          0.77 

0.63 

\\ 

•    RANDOM 

TRAFFIC 

a= 

D.55 

v^^ 

P^n 


1.0 

15  TRUNKS-  a 
\                          THEORY 

=  11.46 
OBSD      '-O 

.\                         ( H 

( ) 

0.8 

*\              AVG          0.81 

0.80       '-'•® 

'A            VAR          1.88 

1.42 

0.6 

"\\,            •  RANDOM  TRAFFIC      °-^ 

\l                   a=o.8i 

0.4 

0.4 

0.2 

0.2 

0 

•  ^'^v,.^^^^ 

_      ,       n 

9  TRUNKS-  a  =  6.21 

THEORY       OBSD 
( -)       ( ) 

AVG  0.52  0.46 

VAR  1.00  1.48 

.    RANDOM  TRAFFIC 
a  =  0.52 


4  68  10  024  68 

n=NUMBER   OF  SIMULTANEOUS  CALLS 


10 


12 


Fifj;.  18  —  Ovorflow  (li.-<t ril)utioiis  from  diroct  interoffice  trunk  groups;  negative 
binomial  theory  versus  thrgwclowji  observations. 


THEORIES   FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING  IN  THE   U.   S.   A.      461 

Table  I  —  Comparison  of  Parameters  of  a  Fitting 

Negative  Binomial  to  the  Convolution  of 

Three  Negative  Binomials 


Example  No.  1 

Example  No.  2 

Component 

Component 

parameters 

Component 
dist'n  No. 

Component  parameters 

dist'n  No. 

Mean 

Variance 

Mean 

Variance 

1 

5 

5 

1 

1 

1 

2 

2 

4 

2 

2 

3 

3 

1 

3 

3 

2 

6 

8 

12 

5 

10 

Semi-Invariants  A,  Skewness  \/pi  ,  and  Kurtosis  ^2  ,  of  Sum  Distributions 


Parameter 

E.xact 

Fitting 

Parameter 

Exact 

Fitting 

Ai 

8 

8 

Ai 

5 

5 

Ao 

12 

12 

A2 

10 

10 

As 

32 

24 

As 

37 

30 

A4 

168 

66 

A4 

239.5 

130 

VFi 

0.770 

0.577 

V/3i 

1.170 

0.949 

/32 

4.167 

3.458 

/32 

5.395 

4.300 

Fig.  22  shows  the  corresponding  comparisons  of  the  overflow  loads  in 
the  other  two  trunk  arrangements  of  Fig.  20.  Again  good  agreement 
with  the  negative  binomial  is  seen. 


7.3.  Equivalent  Random  Theory  for  Prediction  of  Amount  of  Traffic  Over- 
flowing a  Single  Stage  Alternate  Route,  and  Its  Character,  with  Lost 
Calls  Cleared 

As  discussed  in  Section  7.2,  when  random  traffic  is  offered  to  a  limited 
number  of  trunks  x,  the  overflow  traffic  is  well  described  (at  least  for 
traffic  engineering  purposes)  by  the  two  parameters,  mean  a  and  variance 
V.  The  result  can  readily  be  applied  to  a  group  divided  (in  one's  mind) 
two  or  more  times  as  in  Fig.  23. 

Employing  the  a  and  v  curves  of  Figs.  12  and  13,  and  the  appropriate 
numbers  of  trunks  a;i  ,  Xi  +  0:2 ,  and  Xi  +  X2  +  x^ ,  the  pairs  of  descrip- 
tive parameters,  ai  ,  vi  ,  ao ,  vo  and  a-s ,  v-a  can  be  read  at  once.  It  is  clear 
then  that  if  at  some  point  in  a  straight  multiple  a  traffic  with  parameters 
ai  ,  Vi  is  seen,  and  it  is  offered  to  .r2  paths,  the  overflow  therefrom  will 
have  the  characteristics  012 ,  vo  .  To  estimate  the  particular  values  of  a-y 
and  v-i ,  one  would  first  determine  the  values  of  the  equivalent  random 


462 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


P5n 


P^n 


CONVOLUTION  OF  3  NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 
VARIABLES    WITH    PARAMETERS: 

AVG     WR 

1  I 

2  3 
2  6 

, -FITTING  NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


6  8  10  12 

n=  NUMBER  OF   CALLS    PRESENT 


I 


-I I l_^ 


14 


16 


Fig.  19  —  Fitting  sums  of  negative  binomial  variables  with  a  negative  binomial. 


traffic  a  and  trunks  .Ti  which  would  have  produced  ai  and  Vi  .  Then  pro- 
ceeding in  the  forward  direction,  using  a  and  Xi  +  X2 ,  one  consults  the 
a  and  v  charts  to  find  txi  and  Vz .  Thus,  within  the  limitations  of  straight 
group  traffic  flow,  the  character  (mean  and  variance)  of  any  overflow 
load  from  x  trunks  can  be  predicted  if  the  character  (mean  and  variance) 
of  the  load  submitted  to  them  is  known. 

Curves  could  be  constructed  in  the  manner  just  described  by  which  the 
overflow's  a'  and  v'  are  estimated  from  a  load,  a  and  v,  offered  to  x  trunks. 
An  illustrative  fragment  of  such  curves  is  shown  in  Appendix  II,  with  an 
example  of  their  application  in  the  calculation  of  a  straight  trunk  group 
loss  by  considering  the  successive  overflows  from  each  trunk  as  the 
offered  loads  to  the  next. 

Enough,  perhaps,  has  been  shown  in  Section  7.2  of  the  generally  ex- 
cellent descriptions  of  a  variety  of  non-random  traffic  loads  obtainable 
by  the  use  of  only  the  two  parameters  a  and  v,  to  make  one  strongly 
suspect  that  most  of  the  fluctuation  information  needed  for  traffic  engi- 
neering purposes  is  contained  in  those  two  values.  If  this  is,  in  fact,  the 
case,  we  should  then  be  able  to  predict  the  overflow  a',  v'  from  x  trunks 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL  TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      463 

\\ith  an  offered  load  a,  v  which  has  arisen  in  any  manner  of  overflow  from 
earlier  high  usage  groups,  as  illustrated  in  Fig.  24. 

This  is  found  to  be  the  case,  as  will  be  illustrated  in  several  studies  de- 
scribed in  the  balance  of  this  section.  In  the  determination  of  the  charac- 
teristics of  the  overflow  traffic  a',  v'  in  the  cases  of  non-full-access  groups, 
such  as  Figs.  24(b)  and  24(c),  the  equivalent  straight  group  is  visualized 
[Fig.  24(a)],  and  the  Eciuivalent  Random  load  A  and  trunks  S  are  found.* 
I  Using  A,  and  *S  +  C,  to  enter  the  a  and  v  curves  of  Figs.  12  and  13,  a 
,  and  v'  are  readily  determined.  To  facilitate  the  reading  of  .1  and  S,  Fig. 
25 1  and  Fig.  26 f  (which  latter  enlarges  the  lower  left  corner  of  Fig.  25) 
have  been  drawn.  Since,  in  general,  a  and  v  will  not  have  come  from  a 
simple  straight  group,  as  in  Fig.  24(a),  it  is  not  to  be  expected  that  *S, 

OVERFLOW  THEORY  OBSD 

AVERAGE  5.76  5.98 

VARIANCE  12.37  14.89 

=     =     _     =  OST  N0.1 


t      t 

13.16    1024 

f 
1024 

t            t 
10.18     9.22 

t           t 
7.63     7.48 

0.76    ERLANGS 

OVERFLOW 
AVERAGE 
VARIANCE 

THEORY 
5.02 
9.95 

OBSD 
5.06 
7.90 

^^ 

~       ^ 

— 

OST   N0.6 

t     t  t     t  t     t     t 

OFFER    10.66     3.24  2.44    11.46  9.81      9.59     1.42    ERLANGS 

OVERFLOW  THEORY  OBSD 

AVERAGE  2.83  2.87 

VARIANCE  3.35  3.34 


OST   N0.14 


t        t        t       t        1        1        t 

OFFER    2.52      1.08     0.94     0.94     0.59      1.13      0.85   ERLANGS 

Fig.  20  —  Comparison  of  joint-overflow  parameters;  theory  versus  throwdown. 


*  A  somewhat  similar  method,  commonly  identified  with  the  British  Post 
Office,  which  uses  one  parameter,  has  been  employed  for  solving  symmetrical 
graded  multiples  (Ref.  9). 

t  Figs.  25  and  26  will  be  found  in  the  envelope  on  the  inside  back  cover. 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


GROUP    N0.1 

17   TRUNKS, a  =  13.t6 


GROUP    NO.  2 
14   TRUNKS, a: 


10  15  20  0  5  10  15 

r  =  NUMBER    OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS   OFFERED   TO    THE    DIRECT    TRUNKS 


0.15 


0.10 


f(r) 


ao5 


I- 
z 

ui 

BC 

a. 


Ill 

S 
1- 


z 
o 

o 

o 
a. 
a. 


10 


GROUP     NO.  3 

13   TRUNKS,  a  =  10.24 


q: 
< 

1-                                   A                         GROUP    NO.  5 

A\^^               12  TRUNKS,  a=  9.22 

10  0.10 

11  f(r) 

O                 0.05 

//v. 

c 

y^                  ^x^\_^ 

a                   0 

20 


0.20 

r                                                           GROUP    NO.  7 

/\          10  TRUNKS,  a  =  748 

0.15 

/7X\ 

f(r)  0.10 

/         nk 

0.05 

yy              \v 

0 

---^r                                                            ^^^^^C::^— -^ 

GROUP     N0.4  ' 
14   TRUNKS,; 


GROUP    N0.6 
10   TRUNKS,  i 


8  10         12  14        16         18 


0.15  r 


0.10 


F(n) 


0.05 


DISTRIBUTION   OF    OVERFLOW   CALLS    FROM   8   DIR 
GROUPS  OFFERED   TO   1ST    ALTERNATE    ROUTE 


THEORY 

OBSD 

AVG            5.76 

5.98 

VAR               12.4 

14.9 

THROWDOWN   OBSNS 

NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 

-^^^^l!!^^^^^>^ 

0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16 

n  =  NUMBER    OF    SIMULTANEOUS   CALLS   OFFERED    TO    THE    ALTERNATE    ROUTE 


17 


Fig.  21  —  Comparison  of  theoretical  and  throwdown  dis(ril)utions  of  simul- 
taneous calls  offered  to  direct  groups  and  to  tlieir  first  alternate  route  (OST  No.  1). 


THEORIES   FOR  TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      465 

read  from  Fig.  25,  will  be  an  integer.  This  causes  no  trouble  and  S  should 
be  carried  along  fractionally  to  the  extent  of  the  accuracy  of  result  de- 
sired. Reading  *S'  to  one-tenth  of  a  trunk  will  usually  be  found  sufficient 
for  traffic  engineering  purposes. 

Example  1:  Suppose  a  simple  graded  multiple  has  three  trunks  in  each 
of  two  subgroups,  which  overflow  to  C  common  trunks,  where  C  =  1, 


P^n 


OST   NO.  6 

THEORY     OBSD 

AVG  5.02  5.06 

VAR  9.95  7.90 

•   RANDOM  TRAFFIC, a  =  5.0 

-OBSD 

-NEGATIVE   BINOMIAL 

2  4  6  8  10         12         14  16         18 

n  =  NUMBER   OF    SIMULTANEOUS   CALLS 


P?n 


--OBSD 


OST    N0.14 

THEORY  OBSD 

( )      ( ) 

AVG             2.83  2.87 

VAR              3.35  3,34 

RANDOM   TRAFFIC,  a  =  2.8 


-NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


2  4  6  8  10  12         14  16  18 

n  =  NUMBER  OF   SIMULTANEOUS   CALLS 


Fig.  22  —  Combined  overflow  loads  off'ered  to  alternate-route  OST  trunks  from 
lirect  interoffice  trunks;  negative  binomial  theory  vs  throwdown  observations. 


t«3. 


V, 


ta2,y 


2y^2 


f  a,,i 


Fig.  23  —  A  full  access  group  divided  at  several  points  to  examine  the  traffic 
character  at  each  point. 


466 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


2  or  3.  A  load  of  a  erlangs  is  submitted  to  each  subgroup,  a  having  the 
values  1,  2,  3,  4  or  5.  What  grade  of  service  will  be  given? 

Solution:  The  load  overflowing  each  subgroup,  when  a  =  1  for  example, 
has  the  characteristics  a  =  0.0625  and  y  =  0.0790.  Then  A'  =  2a  =  0.125 
and  V  —  2v  =  0.158.  Reading  on  Fig.  26  gives  the  Ecjuivalent  Random 
values  oi  A  =  1.04  erlangs,  S  =  2.55  trunks.  Reading  on  Fig.  12.1  with 
C  +  *S  =  3.55  when  C  =  1,  and  A  =  1.04,  we  find  a'  =  0.0350  and 
oi' liflx  +  a-^  =  0.0175.  We  construct  Table  II  in  which  loss  values  pre- 
dicted by  the  Equivalent  Random  (ER)  Theory  are  given  in  columns 
(3),  (5)  and  (7).  For  comparison,  the  corresponding  exact  values  given 
by  Neovius*  are  sho\vn  in  columns  (2),  (4)  and  (6).  (Less  exact  loss 


s 

(OR  X) 


(a) 


ta,v 


(b) 

fa'.v 


ta,v 


(c) 
fa'.V 


|A  fa,    f; 


la,   faafaa  134*35* J 


Fig.  24  —  Various  high  usage  trunk  group  arrangements  producing  the  same 
total  overflow  a,  v. 


figures  were  given  previously  by  Conny  Palm^°.  The  agreement  is  seen 
to  be  excellent  for  engineering  needs  for  all  values  in  the  table. 

Example  2:  Suppose  in  Fig.  24(b)  the  random  offered  loads  and  paths 
are  as  given  in  Table  III;  we  desire  the  proportion  of  overflow  and  the 
overflow  load  characteristics  from  an  alternate  route  of  5  trunks. 

Solution:  The  individual  overflows  ai ,  vi  ;  a^ ,  v-i  ;  and  as ,  Vz  are  read 
from  Figs.  12  and  13  and  recorded  in  columns  (4)  and  (5)  of  the  table. 
The  a  and  v  columns  are  totalled  to  obtain  the  sum-overflow  average  A' 
and  variance  V .  The  Equivalent  Random  load  A  which,  if  submitted  to 
S  trunks  would  produce  overflow  A',  V ,  is  found  from  Fig.  26.  Finally, 
with  A  submitted  io  S  -\-  C  trunks  the  characteristics  a'  and  y',  of  the 
load  overflowing  the  C  trunks  are  found.  The  numerical  values  obtained 

*  Artificial  Traffic  Trials  Using  Digital  Computers,  a  paper  presented  by  G. 
Neovius  at  the  First  International  Congress  on  the  Application  of  the  Theory  of 
Probability  on  Telephone  Engineering  and  Administration,  Copenhagen,  June, 
1955. 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      467 


Table  II^ — Calculation  of  Loss  in  a  Simple  Graded  Multiple 
g  =  2,  Xi  =  X2  =  S,        ai  =  a2  =  a  =  1  to  5,         C  =  1  to  3 


T  nafl  Submitted  to  each 

Proportion  of  Each  Subgroup  Load  which  Overflows 

=  a'/(.ai  +  ai) 

Subgroup  in  Erlangs 
a 

C  =  1 

C  =  2 

C  =  3 

True 

ER 

True 

ER 

True 

ER 

(1) 
1 

2 
3 
5 
5 

(2) 

0.01737 
0.11548 
0.24566 
0.35935 
0.44920 

(3) 

0.0175 

0.115 

0.246 

0.363 

0.445 

(4) 

0.00396 
0.05630 
0.16399 
0.27705 
0.37336 

(5) 

0.0045 

0.057 

0.163 

0.279 

0.370 

(6) 
0.00077 

0.02438 
0.10212 
0.20535 
0.30308 

(7) 

0.00088 

0.024 

0.103 

0.210 

0.305 

for  this  example  are  shown  in  the  lower  section  of  Table  III.  As  before, 
of  course,  the  "lost"  calls  are  assumed  cleared,  and  do  not  reappear  in 
the  system. 

Example  3:  A  load  of  18  erlangs  is  offered  through  four  groups  of 
10-point  selector  switches  to  twenty- two  trunks  which  have  been  desig- 
nated as  "high  usage"  paths  in  an  alternate  route  plan.  Which  of  the 
trunk  arrangements  shown  in  Fig.  27  is  to  be  preferred,  and  to  what 
extent? 

Solution:  By  successive  applications  of  the  Equivalent  Random 
method  the  overflow  percentages  for  each  of  the  three  trunk  arrange- 
ments are  determined.  The  results  are  shown  in  column  2  of  Table  IV. 
The  difference  in  percentage  overflow  between  the  three  trunk  plans  is 
small;  however,  plan  2  is  slightly  superior  followed  by  plans  3  and  1  in 


Table  III  —  Calculation  of  Overflows  from  a  Simple 
Alternate  Route  Trunk  Arrangement 


Subgroup 
Number 

Offered  Load  in 

Erlangs 

a 

Number  of  Trunks 

X 

Overflow  Loads 

a 

V 

1 
2 
3 



3.5 
5.7 
6.0 

15.2 

3 
6 
9 

1.41 
1.39 
0.45 

3.25 

1.98 
2.40 
0.85 

5.23 

Description  of  load  offered  to  alternate  route:  A'  =  3.25,  V  =  5.23. 
]'"quivalent  straight  multiple:  S  =  5.8  trunks,  A  =  8.00  erlangs  (from  Fig.  26). 
Overflow  from  C  =  5  alternate  route  trunks  (enter  Figs.  12  and  13  with  A  = 

8.0  and  S  +  C  =  10.8:  a'  =  0.72,  v'  =  1.48. 
Proportion  of  load  to  commons  which  overflows  =  0.72/3.25  =  0.22. 
Proportion  of  offered  load  which  overflows  =  0.72/15.2  =  0.0475. 


468 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


PROPORTION  OVERFLOWING 

N0.1                                   E.R  THEORY      NEOVIUS  THROWDOWNS 

f  — ^-  •     •     •      • 

—m-  •     .     •     . 

A  =  18  <^ 

l^  — •-  •     •     •     » 

[  1 

BESK            PUNCHED 
1                                                                CARDS 

■  ■ 

» 

-*- 0.123                 0.118                  0.114 

NO. 2 

A  =  18  < 

fr: : :  1 1 1 
l~: : :  n  I 

■ 

1 

-^0.113                 0.110                  0.110 

N0.3 

f"*'  ■  1 1  n  1 1 

-»-0.118                 0.113                  0.111 

l::::imii 

' 

Fig.  27  —  Comparison  of  losses  on  three  graded  arrangements  of  22  trunks. 

that  order.  The  results  of  extensive  simulations  made  by  Neovius  on  the 
three  trunk  plans  are  available  for  comparison.*  The  values  so  obtained 
are  seen  to  be  very  close  to  the  ER  theoretical  ones ;  moreover  the  same 
order  of  preference  among  the  three  plans  is  indicated  and  with  closely 
similar  loss  differentials  between  them. 

7.3.1.  Throwdown   Comparisons   with   Equivalent   Random    Theonj  on 
Simple  Alternate  Routing  Arrangements  with  Lost  Calls  Cleared 

Results  of  manuallj'  run  throwdowns  on  a  considerable  number  of 
non-symmetrical  single-stage  alternate  route  arrangements  are  available. 
Some  of  these  were  shown  in  Fig.  20;  they  represent  part  of  a  projected 
multi-alternate  route  layout  (to  be  described  later)  for  outgoing  calls 
from  the  local  No.  1  crossbar  Murray  Hill-6  office  in  New  York  to  all 
other  offices  in  the  metropolitan  area.  The  paths  hunted  over  initially  are 
called  direct  trunks;  they  overflow  calls  to  Office  Selector  Tandem  (GST) 
groups,  numbered  from  1  to  17,  which  are  located  in  widely  dispersed 
central  office  buildings  in  the  Greater  New  York  area. 


*  Loc.  cit. 


THEORIES    FOR    TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      469 

Table  IV — Loss  Comparison  of  Graded  Arrangements 


Estimates  of  Percentage  of  Load  Overflowing 

Plan  Number 

ER  Theory 

Neovius  Throwdowns 

BESK  Computer 

(262144  calls) 

Punched  Cards 
(10,000  calls) 

(1) 
1 
2 
3 

(2) 
12.3 
11.3 
11.8 

(3) 
11.81 

10.98 
11.25 

(4) 
11.4 
11.0 
11.1 

Table  V  —  Comparison  of  Theory  and  Throwdowns  for  the 

Parameters  of  Loads  Overflowing  the  Common  Trunks 

in  Single-Stage  Graded  Multiples 


OST  (Alternate) 
Route  Group 

No.  of 
Groups  of 

Total  No. 
of  Trunks 

Total  Load  Offered  to 
Direct  Trunks 

Total  Overflow 

Load  from  OST 

Group 

No.  of 

trunks 

Direct 
Trunks 

in  Direct 
Groups 

Erlangs 

Approximate 
No.  of  Calls 

Theory 

Throwdown 

no. 

(in  2.7  hours) 

a' 

v' 

a' 

v' 

1 

6 

8 

91 

68.91 

4950 

2.00 

5.50 

2.36 

6.52 

2 

3 

3 

45 

37.49 

2690 

2.10 

5.60 

2.05 

6.36 

3 

6 

6 

80 

60.62 

4355 

1.50 

4.00 

1.30 

5.67 

4 

3 

6 

52 

38.49 

2765 

2.30 

5.20 

2.08 

6.43 

5 

3 

3 

17 

12.51 

900 

0.45 

0.83 

0.49 

1.02 

6 

4 

7 

64 

48.62 

3490 

2.50 

5.90 

2.36 

4.88 

7 

8 

12 

78 

57.42 

4125 

2.20 

5.60 

1.71 

4.08 

8 

6 

9 

16 

12.96 

930 

0.82 

1.63 

0.81 

1.11 

9 

1 

2 

22 

16.96 

1220 

1.30 

2.60 

1.02 

1.73 

10 

5 

6 

10 

9.52 

685 

0.78 

1.40 

1.05 

2.07 

11 

8 

13 

16 

16.43 

1180 

1.90 

3.80 

2.77 

7.29 

12 

8 

9 

2 

6.88 

495 

0.70 

1.30 

0.81 

1.83 

13 

5 

15 

33 

21.42 

1540 

1.75 

3.30 

1.16 

2.01 

14 

2 

7 

11 

8.05 

580 

1.46 

2.20 

1.63 

2.14 

15 

9 

15 

8 

11.97 

860 

1.60 

3.25 

1.55 

4.12 

16 

11 

22 

34 

27.46 

1970 

1.75 

4.00 

1.34 

2.26 

17 

3 

7 

4 

5.81 

420 

1.53 

2.31 

1.43 

1.80 

26.64 

58.42 

25.92 

61.32 

In  Table  V  are  given  certain  descriptive  data  for  the  17  OST  trunk 
arrangements  showing  numbers  of  legs  of  direct  trunks,  total  direct 
trunks,  the  offered  erlangs  and  calls,  and  the  mean  and  variance  of  the 
alternate  routes'  overfiovvs,  as  obtained  by  the  ER  theory  and  by 
throwdowns.*  The  throwdown  a'  and  v'  values  of  the  OST  overflow 


*  Additional  details  of  this  simulation  study  are  given  in  Section  7.4. 


470 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


i.a 


^O  0.2 


EQUIVALENT 
RANDOM  THEORY 


ERLANG  THEORY- 


1       2       3       4      5       6       7      8       9      10      It      12     13     14     15      16      17 
ALTERNATE    ROUTE  (OST)   NUMBER 

Fig.  28  —  Comparison  of  theoretical  and  throwdown  overflows  from  a  number 
of  first  alternate  routes. 

were  obtained  by  36-second  switch  counts  of  those  calls  from  each  OST 
group  which  had  come  to  rest  on  subsequent  alternate  routes. 

On  Fig.  28  is  shown  a  summary  of  the  observed  and  calculated  pro- 
portions of  "lost"  to  "offered"  traffic  at  each  OST  alternate  route  group. 
As  may  be  seen  from  the  figure  and  the  last  four  columns  of  Table  V, 
the  general  agreement  is  quite  good ;  the  individual  group  variations  are 
probably  no  more  than  to  be  expected  in  a  simulation  of  this  magnitude. 

An  assumption  of  randomness  (which  has  sometimes  been  argued  as 
returning  when  several  overflows  are  combined)  for  the  load  offered  to 
the  OST's  gives  the  Erlang  Ei  loss  curve  on  Fig.  28.  This,  as  was  to  be 
expected,  rather  consistently  understates  the  loss. 

Since  "switch-counts"  were  made  on  the  calls  overflowing  each  OST, 
the  distributions  of  these  overflows  may  be  compared  with  those  esti- 
mated by  the  Negative  Binomial  theory  having  the  mean  and  variance 
predicted  abo\'e  for  the  overflow.  Fig.  29  shows  the  individual  and  cumu- 
lative probability  distributions  of  the  overflow  simultaneous  calls  from 
the  first  two  OST  alternate  routes.  As  will  be  seen,  the  agreement  is 
quite  good  even  though  this  is  traffic  which  has  been  twice  "non-ran- 
domized." Comparison  of  the  observed  and  calculated  overflow  means 
and  variances  in  Table  V  indicates  that  similar  agreement  between 
observed  and  theoretical  fitting  distributions  for  most  of  the  other  OST's 
would  be  found. 


7.3.2.  Comparison  of  Equivalent  Random  Theory  with  Field  Results  on 
Simple  Alternate  Routing  Arrangements  _ 

Data  were  made  available  to  the  author  from  certain  measurements 
made  in  1941  by  his  colleague  C.  Clos  on  the  automatic  alternate  routing 
trunk  arrangement  in  operation  in  the  Murray  Hill-2  central  office  in 
New  York.  Mr.  Clos  observed  for  one  busy  hour  the  load  carried  on 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC   ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.    A.      471 

several  of  its  OST  alternate  rovite  groups  (similar  to  those  shown  in 
Table  V  for  the  Murray  Hill-6  office,  but  not  identical)  by  means  of  an 
electromechanical  switch-counter  having  a  six-second  cycle.  During 
each  hour's  observation,  numbers  of  calls  offered  and  overflowing  were 
also  recorded. 

Although  the  loads  offered  to  the  corresponding  direct  trunks  which 
()^'erflowed  to  the  OST  group  under  observation  were  not  simultaneously 
measured,  such  measiu'ements  had  been  made  previously  for  several 
hours  so  that  the  relative  contribution  from  each  direct  group  was 
closely  known.  In  this  way  the  loads  offered  to  each  direct  group  which 
produced  the  total  arriving  before  each  OST  group  could  be  estimated 
with  considerable  assurance.  From  these  direct  group  loads  the  character 
(mean  and  variance)  of  the  traffic  offered  to  and  overflowing  the  OST's 
was  predicted.  The  observed  proportion  of  offered  traffic  which  over- 
flowed is  shown  on  Fig.  30  along  with  the  Equivalent  Random  theory 
prediction.  The  general  agreement  is  again  seen  to  be  fairly  good  al- 
though with  some  tendency  for  the  ER  theory  to  predict  higher  than 
observed  losses  in  the  lower  loss  ranges;  perhaps  the  disparity  on  in- 


(n) 


0.5 
0.4 

0.3 

0.2 

0.1 
0 


OST    N0.1 

THEORY      OBSD 


AVG 
VAR 


2.00  2.36 

5.50  6.52 


RANDOM    TRAFFIC 

^--NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 
-THROWDOWN 


OST   NO.  2 

THEORY      OBSD 


AVG 
VAR 


2.10 
5.60 


2.05 
6.36 


>RAND0M   TRAFFIC 


THROWDOWN 

-NEGATIVE   BINOMIAL 


10  15         0  5 

n  =  NUMBER   OF   SIMULTANEOUS   CALLS 


15 


p^n 


-NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


-THROWDOWN 


-NEGATIVE   BINOMIAL 


THROWDOWN 


10  15  0  5 

n  =  NUMBER  OF    SIMULTANEOUS  CALLS 


15 


Fig.  29  —  Distributions  of  loads  overflowing  from  first  alternate  (OST)  groups; 
negative  binomial  theory  versus  throwdown  observations. 


472 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    195G 


dividual  OST  groups  is  within  the  limits  one  might  expect  for  data 
based  on  single-hour  observations  and  for  which  the  magnitudes  of  the 
direct  group  offered  loads  required  some  estimation.  The  assumption  of 
random  traffic  offered  to  the  OST  gives,  as  anticipated,  loss  predictions 
(Erlang  £"1)  consistently  below  those  observed. 

More  recently  extensive  field  tests  have  been  conducted  on  a  working 
toll  automatic  alternate  route  system  at  Newark,  New  Jersey.  High 
usage  groups  to  seven  distant  large  cities  o\'erflowed  calls  to  the  New- 
ark-Pittsburgh alternate  (final)  route.  Data  describing  the  high  usage 
groups  and  typical  system  busy  hoiu-  loads  are  given  in  Table  ^T.  (The 
loads,  of  course,  varied  considerably  from  day  to  day.)  The  size  of  the 
Pittsburgh  route  varied  over  the  six  weeks  of  the  1955  tests  from  64  to 
71  trunks.  Altogether  the  system  comprised  some  255  intertoll  trunks. 

Observations  were  made  at  the  Newark  end  of  the  groups  by  means 
of  a  Traffic  Usage  Recorder  —  making  switch  counts  every  100  seconds 
—  and  by  peg  count  and  o^'erflow  registers.  Register  readings  were  photo- 
graphically recorded  by  half-hourly,  or  more  frequent,  intervals.  To 


^- 

<a 
uz 

^^ 
zz 

05 

1-0 

(T-l 
°^ 


1.0 


0.5 


0.2 


2    0.1 


0.05 


0.02 


0.01 


- 

- 

- 

Z' 

- 

^,^!^   1^   f^-^^ 

U^           —  -  "^ 

Jft 

NON-RANDOM  (ER) //'' 

THEORY      "^xX   /' 

y^  Jrf -OBSERVED 

X                                 ^-i^sM     ' 

_ 

X    ^____— --sss:^*^^'^^^     / 

- 

/j^           '    ^^       ^'^-RANDOM    THEORY 

^                 1                yJ 

1 

/ 

J 

^ 

• 

• 

11 

(\j 

— 

^ 

ro 

tn 

n 

— 

— 

^ 

d 

0 

0 

d 

d 

0 

0 

0 

0 

TANDEM 

z 

Z 

Z 

z 

z 

z 

Z 

Z 

Z 

OFFICE 

0 

<£> 

r^ 

t: 

0 

0 

ro 

0 

CI 

(^ 

m 

O) 

ro 

Q 

Q 

n 

LU 

UJ 

UJ 

LU 

LU 

CD 

LU 

(D 

03 

NO.  TRUNKS 

13 

12 

8 

7 

3 

8 

3 

4 

3 

OFFERED JavG 

7.55 

7.19 

5.22 

3.81 

2.06 

7.79 

2.36 

4.09 

2.4 

LOAD      |vAR   13.58    15.66    6.59     7.30     2.51     18.54     2.77    4.59      5.90 


Fig.  30 — -Observed  tandem   ovciflow.s   in   nlicriKilc 
llill-2  (New  York)  1940-1941. 


loulc   study   at  Murray 


THEORIES   FOR   TOLL   TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE   U.    S.   A.      473 


Table  VI — High  Usage  Groups  and  Typical  System 

Busy  Hour  Loads 


High  Usage  Group, 
Newark  to: 

Length  of  Direct  Route 
(Air  Miles) 

Nominal  Size  of  Group 
(Number  of  Trunks) 

Typical  Offered  Load 
(erlangs) 

Baltimore 

170 

560 

395 

1375 

470 

1100 

1170 

18 

42 
27 
33 
37 
26 
5 

19 

Cincinnati 

Cleveland 

Dallas 

Detroit 

Kansas  City 

New  Orleans 

43 
26 
34 
36 
23 
4 

compare  theory  with  the  observed  overflow  from  the  final  route,  esti- 
mates of  the  offered  load  A'  and  its  ^-ariance  V  are  required.  In  the 
present  case,  the  total  load  offered  to  the  final  route  in  each  hour  was 
estimated  as 

A'  =  Average  of  Offered  Load 

Peg  Count  of  Calls  Offered 

to  Pittsburgh  Group 


(Peg  Count  of  Offered  Calls) 
—  (Peg  Count  of  Overflow  Calls) 


X  Average  Load  Carried 

by  Pittsburgh  Group 


The  variance  V  of  the  total  load  offered  to  the  final  route  was  estimated 
for  each  hour  as 

V'  =  Variance  of  Offered  Load 

7  7 

=    A'    —    2    «i   +    2    Vi 


i=l 


where  «»  and  Vi  are,  respectively,  the  average  and  variance  of  the  load 
overflowing  from  the  tth  high  usage  group.  (The  expression.  A'    — 

7 

^  «i ,  is  an  estimate  of  the  average  —  and,  therefore  of  the  variance 
1=1 

—  of  the  first-routed  traffic  offered  directly  to  the  final  route.  Thus  the 
total  variance,  V,  is  taken  as  the  sum  of  the  direct  and  overflow  com- 
ponents.) Using  A',  V  and  the  actual  number,  C,  of  final  route  trunks  in 
service,  the  proportion  of  offered  calls  expected  to  overfloAv  was  calcu- 
lated for  the  traffic  and  trunk  conditions  seen  for  25  system  busy  hours 
from  February  17  to  April  1,  1955  on  the  Pittsburgh  route.  The  results 
are  displayed  on  Fig.  31,  where  certain  traffic  data  on  each  hour  are 
given  in  the  lower  part  of  the  figure.  The  hours  are  ordered  —  for  con- 
venience in  plotting  and  viewing  —  by  ascending  proportions  of  calls 
overflowing  the  group;  observed  results  are  shown  by  the  double  line 


474  THE   BELL  SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


0.001 


3  5  7  9         11         13         15         17         19        21         23       25 

NO.  P'BGH   TRKS    71   70  65  71   65  71   65  69  64  64  70   65  64  71    68  65  64  65  64  70  65  65   65  65  65 


HOURS  BY  AMT. 
OF  OBS'D  loss 


EST'd  LOAD  fAVG.  50  54  55   56  55  63  55   58  54  54  68  60  63  74   76  74    76  83  91   102  109105  101  115124 
OFFERED       War.  82  95   85   89  98  101  84   98  97   89110  10588125  121140114  141  175182  170  176  179  199197 


Fig.  31  —  Final  route  (Newark-Pittsburgh)  overflows  in  1955  toll  alternate^ 
route  study.  I 


THEORIES    FOR   TOLL  TRAFFIC    ENGINEERING   IN   THE    U.   S.    A.      475 

curve.  The  superposed  single  line  is  the  corresponding  estimate  by  EE, 
theory  of  the  hour-to-hour  call  losses.  As  may  be  seen,  theory  and  ob- 
servation are  in  good  agreement  both  point  by  point  and  on  the  average 
over  the  range  of  losses  from  0.01  to  0.50.  The  dashed  line  shows  the 
prediction  of  final  route  loss  for  each  hour  on  the  assumption  that  the 
offered  traffic  A'  was  random.  Such  an  assumption  gives  consistently  low 
estimates  of  the  existing  true  loss. 

As  of  interest,  a  series  of  heavy  dots  is  included  on  Fig.  31.  These  are 
the  result  of  calculating  the  Poisson  Summation,  P{C,L),  where  L  is  the 
average  load  carried  on,  rather  than  offered  to,  the  C  trunks.  It  is  inter- 
esting that  just  as  in  earlier  studies  in  this  paper  on  straight  groups  of 
intertoll  trunks  (for  example  as  seen  on  Fig.  7),  the  Poisson  Summation 
with  load  carried  taken  as  the  load  offered  parameter,  gives  loss  values 
surprisingly  close  to  those  observed.  Also,  as  before,  this  summation  has 
a  tendency  to  give  too-great  losses  at  light  loadings  of  a  group  and  too- 
small  losses  at  the  heavier  loadings. 

;  7.4  Prediction  of  Traffic  Passing  Through  a  Midti-Stage  Alternate  Route 

Network 

I  In  the  contemplated  American  automatic  toll  switching  plan,  wide 
I  advantage  is  expected  to  be  taken  of  the  efficiency  gains  available  in 
i  multi-alternate  routing.  Thus  any  procedure  for  traffic  analysis  and 
prediction  needs  to  be  adaptable  for  the .  more  complex  multi-stage 
arrangements  as  well  as  the  simpler  single-stage  ones  so  far  examined. 
Extension  of  the  Equivalent  Random  theory  to  successive  overflows  is 
easily  done  since  the  characterizing  parameters,  average  and  variance, 
of  the  load  overflowing  a  group  of  paths  are  ahvays  available. 

Since  few  cases  of  more  than  single-stage  automatic  alternate  routing 
are  yet  in  operation  in  the  American  toll  plant,  it  is  not  readily  possible 
to  check  an  extension  of  the  theoiy  with  actual  field  data.  Moreover  col- 
lecting and  analyzing  observations  on  a  large  operating  multi-alternate 
route  system  would  be  a  comparatively  formidable  experiment. 

However,  in  New  York  city's  local  interoffice  trunking  there  is  a  very 
considerable  development  of  multi-alternate  routing  made  possible  by 
the  flexibility  of  the  marker  arrangements  in  the  No.  1  crossbar  switching 
system.  None  of  these  overflow  arrangements  has  been  observed  as  a 
whole,  simultaneously  and  in  detail.  The  Murray  Hill-2  data  in  OST 
groups  reviewed  in  Section  7.3.2  were  among  the  partial  studies  which 
have  been  made. 

In  connection  with  studies  made  just  prior  to  World  War  II  on  these 


476  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

Table  VII  —  Sum  of  Direct  Group  Overflow  Loads, 

Offered  to  OST's 


Average. 
Variance 


Theory 


86.06 
129.5 


Observed 


87.12 
127.4 


local  multi -alternate  route  systems,  a  throwdown  was  made  in  1941  on  a 
proposed  trunk  plan  for  the  Murray  Hill-6  office.  The  arrangement  of  : 
trunks  is  shown  on  Fig.  32.  Three  successive  alternate  routes,  Office 
Selector  Tandems  (OST),  Crossbar  Tandem  (XBT),  and  Suburban: 
Tandem  (ST),  are  available  to  the  large  majority  of  the  123  direct  trunk 
groups  leading  outward  to  169  distant  offices.  (The  remaining  46  parcels 
of  traffic  did  not  have  direct  trunks  to  distant  offices  but,  as  indicated 
on  the  diagram,  offered  their  loads  directly  to  a  tandem  group.)  A  total 
of  726  trunks  is  involved,  carrying  475  erlangs  of  traffic. 

A  throwdown  of  34,001  offered  calls  corresponding  to  2.7  hours  of 
traffic  was  run.  Calls  had  approximate  exponential  holding  times,  averag- 
ing 135  seconds.  Records  were  kept  of  numbers  of  calls  and  the  load  from 
the  traffic  parcels  offered  to  each  direct  group,  as  they  were  carried  or 
passed  beyond  the  groups  of  paths  to  which  they  had  access.  Loads  car- 
ried by  each  trunk  in  the  system  were  also  observed  by  means  of  a  36- 
second  "switch-count."  (The  results  on  the  17  OST  groups  reported  in 
Section  7.3.1  were  part  of  this  study.) 

Comparisons  of  observation  and  theory  which  are  of  interest  include 
the  combined  loads  to  and  overflowing  the  17  OST's.  Observed  versus 
calculated  parameters  (starting  with  theory  from  the  original  direct 
group  submitted  loads)  are  given  in  Table  VII.  The  agreement  is  seen 
to  be  very  good. 

The  corresponding  comparison  of  total  load  from  all  the  OST's  is 
given  in  Table  VIII.  Again  the  agreement  is  highly  satisfactory. 

Not  all  of  the  overflow  from  the  OST's  was  offered  to  the  22  crossbar 
tandem  trunks;  for  economic  reasons  certain  parcels  by-passed  XBT  andf 
were  sent  directly  to  Suburban  Tandem.*  This  posed  the  problem  of 
breaking  off  certain  portions  of  the  overflow  from  the  OST's,  to  be  added"' 
again  to  the  overflow  from  XBT.  An  estimate  was  needed  of  the  contri 
bution  made  by  each  parcel  of  direct  group  traffic  to  any  OST's  over 
flow.  These  were  taken  as  proportional  to  the  loads  offered  the  OST  by 
each  direct  group  (this  assumes  that  each  parcel  suffers  the  same  over- 


*  In  the  toll  alternate  route  system  by -passing  of  this  sort  will  not  occur. 


Tt 


U'lnntuunu u L 


\'^\\\\\\\''  \va 


p^^^^^ 


\\nii\^ 


S 


m 


T^ 


m: 


Tr± 


7  J '''.': ; , 


±±± 


^PP 


tf+Ff- 


4^ 


:« 


tn 


^ 


'/V//'/-'//./'/''///;^: 


fl 


NO.  16 


NO.  17 


SPECIAL 
TANDEM 


tt  inttttiiittttMitiftt  ttinit  tit  t  tttttttttt  ttttt 

(V  OJ       ^O  ^^»*^u-^^OsO  r- u-^Ty  fv^  O  OJ  fVOJ  O^  rNvO  TO-* -t  OJ  C^  V\vO  (V-*fV<HrH  OI^C^  »H  -tTOTO  _*(^-*«)  -*CJtO  <-ITOnO  C*- -* 

^O  r^      O -*  J- -*rj  r^ -j-joj  rj  rH  O  OO  0«>  C^OiJ^<*\<*\fH  TO^OC^OJU^r^  ^ -^  i/n  f^  OtO  to  r^*rfc"~'-*r^r^rsi  CT^^OJi-tiH 

OO       -*  r^  i-H  ^  O  rH  ^  rH.-H  .-H  rH  rH  rHrH  O  O  O  OO  O  O  O  rH  (-1  ^  O  O  O  O  r^rH  O  O  OOOOOOOOOO  OOOOO 

27.46                                5.81  5.44  0.31             5.99                   1.96 

tOvO       -JvO  rH  fV  f'^0^_JO>JD  O^  r^rH  (Vr- ifNvO  »A(NJryNO -*fV  (NiTO  Of^Of^O^  -*  ^  ^  -*  (N*  ONf^  "^tO  C^  t*^C^  <^  *'^  C^CM^^TO 

>-i  t£)     E-«  cr:  tn  CO  ,_j  ti3  <  <i<i:  tH  w  kJ  »Jo- J  i-H  w  hJ>  a.  i*;  M  <ow»H'J<-<  mo:-*  >  M<fHO-<>JM*s<:w  mmooo 

crossbar  office. 


FINAL  ,0 

TANDEM 
TRUNKS 

5 


INTERMEDIATE 
TANDEM 
TRUNKS  10 


FIRST 
ALTERNATE        5 ■ 
nUTE(OST) 
TRUNKS 


SUBURBAN   TANDEM 


N0.1  N0.2       N0.3  N0.4      N0.5         N0.6 


NO.  7 


N0.8         N0.9     NO.IO 


N0.11 


N0.12 


N0.I3 


N0.14 


DIRECT 

INTEROFFICE 

TRUNKS 


15  r. 
10rzE 

5:E: 

1  --- 


m  ill  ]M  \M\  Vw  timii  ttimlmtt  tiitifti!  ti  flmi  tttitttttiiit  tttitttft  tmmmntti  tiiittt  tmiitittittit  tmtmitmitmtni  imttt  tii  i  ititnttit  ftitt 


Y  I    k.ni.L'    IMnu  ■-!  fv  IV  iH  r>j  >0  J  t^        i-t^.H       p^tov>r^s>r^      O  (v  rt  o  (N  to     mr^pj       O  cvj  ^ -tto ''^-4      O  rsi  tT>C'tJ't~-t^C^NO&''">-i      -*  (m  lAi-i  r\  O  O- r~  f^     'O 

[ERLAN6S)  f|JOOO£>r-t^O        'OcvtJ.      rHC'O'OO-Ov      i^-0~0,0'0  J     ■/■OO       Ot^fv-^Cr'ovrH      O<0  t^i-^f^r^rufOcjpHu^      pJc-j^^^^^OcJ      (> 


68.91        37.49       60.62  38.49      12.51         48.62 


57.42 


DESTINATION  *Cr^-*t^r>^,^        r.^>r 

OFFICES  S£S253S£    gS? 


~-»f«Ot-      Jr" 


mff-tO      toO^iT 


^rHrHO       rH  p- ^ -i  f-i  rt -J  r4 -^  ,H  ^d  O     -4  rH  r4  O  O  O  O  O  O      «/^  (V  cJ  .-*  O  O  O -- r+^  f"*  O  OO  O     (VrHodcHO       ^ddOrHOOOOOOOOOO 

12.96  16.96       9.52  16.43  6.88  21.42  8.05  11.97  27.46  5.81  5.44  0.31  5.99  1. 


T  Q  Ita.  tfc<  C3  O  Z  OW  <  f) 


Fig.  32.  —  Multi-alternate   route  trunking   arrangcinenl   at  Murray  Hill — 6  (New  York)  local  No.   1  crossbar  office. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A. 


477 


flow  probability).  The  variance  of  this  overflow  portion  by-passing  XBT 
was  estimated  by  assigning  to  it  the  same  variance-to-average  ratio  as 
was  found  for  the  total  load  overflowing  the  OST.  Subtracting  the  means 
and  variances  so  estimated  for  all  items  by-passing  XBT,  left  an  approxi- 
mate load  for  XBT  from  each  OST.  Combining  these  corrected  overflows 
gave  mean  and  variance  values  for  offered  load  to  XBT,  Observed  values 


Table  VIII  - 

-Sum  of  Loads  Overflowing  OST's 

Theory 

Observed 

Avftraere              

26.64 

58.42 

25.92 

Variance 

61.32 

Table  IX  —  Load  Offered  to  Crossbar  Tandem 


I    Average. 
Variance 


Theory 


25.18 
47.67 


Observed 


25.51 
56.10 


0.10  r 


-RANDOM   TRAFFIC 


-THROWDOWN 


,--NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


to  20  30  40  50 

n  =  NUMBER  OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 


P^n 


THEORY 

OBSD 

1.0 

I — - — -^ 

.^^^                                                                  ( ) 

( ) 

^X                                               AVG           25.18 

25.51 

0.8 

^V                                        VAR           47.67 

56.10 

0.6 

VS. 

0.4 

0.2 

0 

, 

, 

10  20  30  40  50 

n  =  NUMBER   OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 


Fig.  33  —  Distribution  of  load  offered  to  crossbar  tandem  trunks;  negative  bi- 
nomial theory  versus  throwdown  observations. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.         477 

flow  probability).  The  variance  of  this  overflow  portion  by-passing  XBT 
was  estimated  by  assigning  to  it  the  same  variance-to-average  ratio  as 
was  found  for  the  total  load  overflowing  the  OST.  Subtracting  the  means 
'  and  variances  so  estimated  for  all  items  by-passing  XBT,  left  an  approxi- 
mate load  for  XBT  from  each  OST.  Combining  these  corrected  overflows 
gave  mean  and  variance  values  for  offered  load  to  XBT,  Observed  values 


Table  VIII  - 

-  Sum  OF  Loa 

Ds  Overflowing  OST's 

Theory 

Observed 

Average 

Variance 

26.64 

58.42 

25.92 
61.32 

Table  IX 

.  —  Load  Offered  to  Crossbar  Tandem 

Theory 

Observed 

Average   

25.18 
47.67 

25.51 

Variance 

56.10 

0.10  r 


^-.--RANDOM   TRAFFIC 
-THROWDOWN 


--NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


10  20  30  40  50 

n  =  NUMBER  OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 

THEORY  OBSD 

( )     ( ) 

AVG          25.18  25.51 

VAR          47.67  56.10 


Pin 


10  20  30  40  50 

n  =  NUMBER   OF    SIMULTANEOUS    CALLS 


Fig.  33  —  Distribution  of  load  offered  to  crossbar  tandem  trunks;  negative  bi- 
nomial theory  versus  throwdown  observations. 


478  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


Table  X  —  Load  Overflowing  Crossbar  Tandem 


Average. 
Variance , 


Observed 


6.47 
33.48 


and  those  calculated  (in  the  above  manner)  are  given  in  Table  IX. 
Fig.  33  shows  the  distribution  of  XBT  offered  loads,  observed  and  calcu- 
lated. The  agreement  is  very  satisfactory.  The  random  traffic  (Poisson) 
distribution,  is  of  course,  considerably  too  narrow. 

In  a  manner  exactly  similar  to  previous  cases,  the  Ecjuivalent  Random 
load  method  was  applied  to  the  XBT  group  to  obtain  estimated  param- 
eters of  the  traffic  overflowing.  Comparison  of  observation  and  theory 
at  this  point  is  given  in  Table  X. 

Fig.  34  shows  the  corresponding  observed  and  calculated  distributions 


0.15 


0.10 


f(n) 


0.05 


)RANDOM   TRAFFIC 


THEORY      OBSD 

AVG  6.55  6.47 

VAR         23.80         33.48 


^'NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


0  5  10         15        20        25       30        35 

n=NUMBER  OF    SIMULTANEOUS  CALLS 


P^n 


_^^RANDOM  TRAFFIC 
--NEGATIVE    BINOMIAL 


THROWDOWN 


0  5         10         15        20        25        30        35 

n  =  NUMBER  OF   SIMULTANEOUS   CALLS 


Fig.  34  —  Distribution  of  calls  from  crossbar  tandem  trunks;  negative  binomial 
theory  versus  throwdown  observations. 


! 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A. 


479 


of  siniiiltaneoiis  calls.  The  agreement  again  is  reasonably  good,  in  spite 
of  the  considerable  disparity  in  variances. 

The  overflow  from  XBT  and  the  load  which  by-passed  it,  as  well  as 
some  other  miscellaneous  parcels  of  traffic,  were  now  combined  for  final 
offer  to  the  Suburban  Tandem  group  of  17  trunks.  The  comparison  of 
parameters  here  is  again  available  in  Table  XI.  On  Fig.  35  are  shown 
the  observed  and  calculated  distributions  of  simultaneous  calls  for  the 
load  offered  to  the  ST  trunks.  The  agreement  is  once  again  seen  to  be 
very  satisfactory. 

We  now  estimate  the  loss  from  the  ST  trunks  for  comparison  with  the 
actual  'proportion  of  calls  which  failed  to  find  an  idle  path,  and  finally 

Table  XI  —  Load  Offered  to  Suburban  Tandem 


Average. . 
Variance . 


Theory 


15.38 
42.06 


Observed 


14.52 
48.53 


THEORY       OBSD 


f(n) 


P^n 


10  20  30  40 

n  =  NUMBER  OF    SIMULTANEOUS  CALLS 


I.O 

^ ^ 

\ 

0.8 

" 

^ 

, --NEGATIVE 

BINOMIAL 

0.6 

V     ^-THROWDOWN 

\  \ 

0.4 

0.2 

x^^^ 

0 

1 

" -r-^ 

10  20  30  40 

n^NUMBER  OF   SIMULTANEOUS  CALLS 


50 


Fig.  35  —  Distribution  of  load  offered  to  suburban  tandem  trunks;  negative 
linomial  theory  versus  throwdown  observations. 


480 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Table  XII  - 

—  Grade  of  Service  on  ST  Group 

Theory 

Obser- 
vation 

Observation 

Load  submitted  (erlangs) 

Load  overflowing  (er- 
langs) 

Proportion  load  over- 
flowing 

15.38 
3.20 
0.209 

14.52 

2.63 
0.181 

Number  of  calls  sub- 
mitted                               1057 

Number  of  calls  over- 
flowing                                200 

Proportion  of  calls  over- 
flowing                                      0.189 

Table  XIII  —  Grade  of  Service  on  the  System 


Total  load  submitted 

Total  load  overflowing 

Proportion  of  load  not  served 


Theory 


Observed 


475  erlangs 
3.20  erlangs 
0.00674 


34,001  calls 
200  calls 
0.00588 


compare  the  proportions  of  all  traffic  offered  the  system  which  failed  to 
find  a  trunk  immediately.  See  Tables  XII  and  XIII. 

After  these  several  and  varied  combinations  of  offered  and  overflowed 
loads  to  a  system  of  one  direct  and  three  alternate  routes  it  is  seen  that  'i 
the  final  prediction  of  amount  of  load  finally  lost  beyond  the  ST  trunks 
is  gratifyingly  close  to  that  actually  observed  in  the  throwdown.  The 
prediction  of  the  system  grade  of  service  is,  of  course,  correspondingly 
good. 

It  is  interesting  in  this  connection  to  examine  also  the  proportions  I 
overflowing  the  ST  group  when  summarized  by  parcels  contributed  from 
the  several  OST  groups.  The  individual  losses  are  shown  on  Fig.  36;  they 
appear  well  in  line  with  the  variation  one  would  expect  from  group  to 
group  with  the  moderate  numbers  of  calls  which  progressed  this  far 
through  the  multiple. 


0.4 


0.3 


octr 
o^  0.2 

So 
a  ^0.1 


,-THEORY  =0.21 
._>. 


•  • 


--AVG  OBSD  =  0.19 


12        4        6       8       10      12       14      16       18      20 
OST  GROUP   NUMBER 

Fig.  36  —  Overflow  calls  on  third  alternate  (ST)  route. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A. 


481 


7.4.1  Correlation  of  Loss  with  Peakedness  of  Components  of  Non-Ran- 
dom Offered  Traffic 

Common  sense  suggests  that  if  several  non-random  parcels  of  traffic 
are  combined,  and  their  joint  proportion  of  overflow  from  a  trunk  group 
is  P,  the  parcels  which  contain  the  more  peaked  traffic  should  experience 
overflow  proportions  larger  than  P,  and  the  smoother  traffic  an  overflow 
proportion  smaller  than  P.  It  is  by  no  means  clear  however,  a  priori,  the 
extent  to  which  this  would  occur.  One  might  conjecture  that  if  any  one 
parcel's  contribution  to  the  total  combined  load  is  small,  its  loss  would 
be  caused  principally  by  the  aggregate  of  calls  from  the  other  parcels, 
and  consequently  its  own  loss  would  be  at  about  the  general  average  loss 
P,  and  hence  not  very  much  determined  by  its  own  peakedness.  The 
Murray  Hill-6  throwdowai  results  may  be  examined  in  this  respect.  The 
mean  and  variance  of  each  OST-parcel  of  traffic,  for  example,  arriving 
at  the  final  ST  route  was  recorded,  together  with,  as  noted  before,  its 
own  proportion  of  overflow  from  the  ST  trunks.  The  variance/mean  over- 
dispersion  ratio,  used  as  a  measure  of  peakedness,  is  plotted  for  each 
parcel  of  traffic  against  its  proportion  of  loss  on  Fig.  37.  There  is  an  un- 
doubted, but  only  moderate,  increase  in  proportion  of  overflow  with 
increased  peakedness  in  the  offered  loads. 

It  is  quite  possible,  however,  that  by  recognizing  the  differences  be- 
tween the  service  given  various  parcels  of  traffic,  significant  savings  in 
final  route  trunks  can  be  effected  for  certain  combinations  of  loads  and 
trunking  arrangements.  Of  particular  interest  is  the  service  given  to  a 
parcel  of  random  traffic  offered  directly  to  the  final  route  when  compared 


04 

o 

oc_l  0.3 

UJUJ 

>u 
°% 

°ia2|- 

zo 

o< 

OO0.1 

o 

a. 


•  •    • 


0.5  1.0  1.5  2.0  2.5  3.0  3.5 

V/a  OF    EACH    OST   PARCEL    REACHING   ST   TRUNKS 


Fig.  37  —  Effect  of  peakedness  on  overflow  of  a  parcel  of  traffic  reaching  an 
ilternate  route. 


482  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

with  that  received  by  non-random  parcels  overflowing  to  it  from  high 
usage  groups. 

7.5  Expected  Loss  on  First  Routed  Traffic  Offered  to  Final  Route 

The  congestion  experienced  by  the  first-routed  traffic  offered  to  the 
final  group  in  a  complex  alternate  route  arrangement  [such  as  the  right 
hand  parcels  in  Figs.  10(c)  and  (d)]  \vill  be  the  same  as  encountered  in  a 
series  of  random  tests  of  the  final  route  by  an  independent  observer, 
that  is,  it  will  be  the  proportion  of  time  that  all  of  the  final  trunks  are 
busy.  As  noted  before,  the  distribution  of  simultaneous  calls  n  (and  hence 
the  congestion)  on  the  C  final  trunks  produced  by  some  specific  arrange- 
ment of  offered  load  and  high  usage  trunks  can  be  closely  simulated  by 
that  due  to  a  single  Equivalent  Random  load  offered  to  a  straight  group 
of  aS  -f  C  trunks.  Then  the  proportion  of  time  that  the  C  trunks  are 
busy  in  such  an  equivalent  system  provides  an  estimate  of  the  corres- 
ponding time  in  the  real  system ;  and  this  proportion  should  be  approxi- 
mately the  desired  grade  of  service  given  the  first  routed  traffic. 

Brockmeyer  has  given  an  expression  (his  equation  36)  for  the  pro- 
portion of  time,  Rx ,  in  a  simple  S  -\-  C  system  with  random  offer  A, 
and  "lost  calls  cleared,"  that  all  C  trunks  are  busy,  independent  of  the 
condition  of  the  *S-trunks: 

R,  =  f{S,C,A) 

=  Ii,x,s+cKA)  — — 


where 


m=o  \         m  /  (S  —  m 


However,  (rdS)  is  usually  calculated  more  readily  step-by-step  using 
the  formula 

<Tc{S)    =    aciS    -    1)    -f    CTc-liS)  , 

starting  with 

crc(O)  =  1        and        ao(S)  =  A^Sl 
The  average  load  carried  on  the  C  paths  is  clearly 

Lc  =  A[Ei,sU)  -  Ei,s+c{A)],  (31) 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.         483 

and  the  variance  of  the  carried  load  can  be  shown  to  be* 

Vc  =  ALc  ^  -  ACEx,s+c{A)  +  Lc-  L\  (32) 

On  Fig.  38,  Ri  values  are  shown  in  solid  line  curves  for  several  com- 
binations of  A  and  C  over  a  small  range  of  S  trunks.  The  corresponding 
losses  Ri  for  all  traffic  offered  the  final  group,  where  R^  =  oc'/A',  are 
shown  as  broken  curves  on  the  same  figure.  The  R2  values  are  always 
above  Ri ,  agreeing  with  the  common  sense  conclusion  that  a  random 
component  of  traffic  will  receive  better  service  than  more  peaked  non- 
random  components. 

However,  there  are  evidently  considerable  areas  where  the  loss  differ- 
ence between  the  two  Z^'s  will  not  be  large.  In  the  loss  range  of  principal 
interest,  0.01  to  0.10,  there  is  less  proportionate  difference  between  the 
R's,  as  the  A  =  C  paired  values  increase  on  Fig.  38.  For  example,  at 
/?2  =  0.05,  and  A  =  C  =  10,  R./Ri  =  0.050/0.034  =  1.47;  while  for 
A  =  C  =  30,  i?2/Ri  =  0.050/0.044  =  1.13.  Similarly  for  A  =  2C,  the 
R2/R1  ratios  are  given  in  Table  XIV.  Again  the  rapid  decrease  in  the 
R2/R1  ratio  is  notable  as  A  and  C  increase. 

F.  I.  Tange  of  the  Swedish  Telephone  Administration  has  performed 
elaborate  simulation  studies  on  a  variety  of  semi-symmetrical  alternate 
route  arrangements,  to  test  the  disparity  between  the  Ri  and  R2  types 
of  losses  on  the  final  route. f  For  example  if  g  high-usage  groups  of  8 
paths  each,  jointly  overflow  2.0  erlangs  to  a  final  route  which  also  serves 
2.0  erlangs  of  first  routed  traffic,  Tange  found  the  differences  in  losses 
between  the  two  2-erlang  parcels,  i?high  usage  (h.u.)  —Ri,  shown  in 
column  9  of  Table  XV.  The  corresponding  ER  calculations  are  performed 
in  columns  2  to  8,  the  last  of  which  is  comparable  with  the  throwdown 
\alues  of  column  9.  The  agreement  is  not  unreasonable  considering  the 
sensitiveness  of  determining  the  difference  between  two  small  prob- 
abilities of  loss.  A  quite  similar  agreement  was  found  for  a  variety  of 
other  loads  and  trunk  arrangements. 


*  In  terms  of  the  first  two  factorial  moments  of  n :  Vc  is  given  by 

Vc  =  M(2)  +  M(i)  -  M(i)*,        where  Mw  =  Lc 

(leneral  expressions  Mu)  for  the  factorial  moments  of  n  are  derived  in  an  unpub- 
lished memorandum  by  J.  Riordan. 

t  Optimal  Use  of  Both-Way  Circuits  in  Cases  of  Unlimited  Availability,  a 
paper  by  F.  I.  T&nge,  presented  at  the  First  International  Congress  on  the  Appli- 
cation of  the  Theory  of  Probability  in  Telephone  Engineering  and  Administration, 
June  1955,  Copenhagen. 


484  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 

0.6 

0.5 

0.4 
0.3 


0.2 


D 

O 

a. 

_( 

0.1 

< 

z 

0.09 

0.08 

II 

z 
o 

0.07 

0.06 

U1 

in 

0.05 

o 

_i 

0.04 

II 

o 

7- 

0.03 

O 

(- 

a. 
o 

0.02 

n 

o 

a 

a. 

ru 

a. 

0.01 

a 

0.009 

z 

0.008 

< 

0.007 

cr 

0.006 

0.005 

0.004 


0.003 


0.002 


0.001 


^•>_^ 

^^ 

;-.^ 

V 

'*^^>v 

•^ 
'N^ 

Y^x. 

X 
\ 

V 

vv 

\     \ 

\          \ 

\     \ 
\     \ 

A  =  30 

C  =  15 
s 

\s\^ 

\ 

.'    ^ 

\\v 

\ 

n,     -^     ^ 

f-         \ 

>■ 

\ 

\ 

\        \ 

"S^         \ 

V 

\         \ 

\       \ 

\ 

[a 

\    ""') 

\        \ 

\ 

^ 

\X'  ^"' 

o\ 

\    \ 

\    \ 

\ 

\  A?T 

iO  \ 

\  \ 

\     \ 

R,    \'C-. 

\         \ 

I    A  =  20^ 

rc  =  io^^ 

V                 \ 

\        \ 
\         \ 

\ 
\ 

\           \ 

\  \    \ 

\ 

\ 

\  \    \ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\  ^   \ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

'        \^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

A     \ 

\ 

V 

A  =  10,^ 
C  =  io       \ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

10 


15 


20  25 

S  =  *equivalent"number  of  paths 


30 


35 


Fig.  38  —  Comparison  of  Ri  and  R2  losses  under  various  load  and  trunk  con- 
ditions. 


Table  XIV— The  R2/R1  Ratios  for  A   =  2C 

A 

C 

Ri/Ri  when  R2  =  0.05 

10 
20 
30 

5 
10 
15 

10.6 
3.25 

2.44 

THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A. 


485 


Table  XV — Comparison  of  E.R.  Theory  and  Throwdowns  on 

Disparity  of  Loss  Between  High  Usage  Overflow  and 

Random  Offer  to  a  Final  Group 

(8  trunks  in  each  high  usage  group;  9  final  trunks  serving  2.0  erlangs 

high  usage  overflow  and  2.0  erlangs  first  routed  traffic.) 


Number  of 

Groups  of 

8  High  Usage 

Trunks 

ER  Theory  {A'  =  4.0) 

Tange 

V 

A 

5 

R2=a7A' 

i?i 

Rh.u,  ~ 
2R-L-  Ri 

Rh.u.—Rl= 

2{R2  -  Ry) 

Throwdown 
Rh.u.  -  Ri 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

(9) 

1 

5.77 

7.51 

4.17 

0.0375 

0.0251 

0.0499 

0.0248 

0.0180 

2 

5.80 

7.50 

4.25 

0.0383 

0.0255 

0.0511 

0.0256 

0.0247 

3 

5.74 

7.44 

4.08 

0.0369 

0.0248 

0.0490 

0.0242 

0.0286 

4 

5.68 

7.30 

3.91 

0.0362 

0.0247 

0.0477 

0.0230 

0.0276 

5 

5.64 

7.20 

3.80 

0.0355 

0.0242 

0.0468 

0.0226 

0.0245 

6 

5.58 

7.06 

3.64 

0.0350 

0.0240 

0.0460 

0.0220 

0.0221 

7 

5.55 

7.00 

3.56 

0.0345 

0.0238 

0.0452 

0.0204 

0.0202 

8 

5.51 

6.91 

3.45 

0.0335 

0.0236 

0.0434 

0.0198 

0.0188 

9 

5.47 

6.81 

3.34 

0.0325 

0.0231 

0.0419 

0.0188 

0.0177 

10 

5.45 

6.76 

3.29 

0.0312 

0.0225 

0.0399 

0.0174 

0.0166 

Limited  data  are  available  showing  the  disparity  of  Ri  and  Ro  in 
actual  operation  in  a  range  of  load  and  trunk  values  well  beyond  those 
for  which  Ri  values  have  been  calculated.  Special  peg  count  and  over- 
flow registers  were  installed  for  a  time  on  the  final  route  during  the  1955 
Newark  alternate  route  tests.  These  gave  separate  readings  for  the  calls 
from  high  usage  groups,  and  for  the  first  routed  Newark  to  Pittsburgh 
calls.  Comparative  losses  for  17  hours  of  operation  over  a  wide  range  of 
loadings  are  shown  on  Fig.  39.  The  numbers  at  each  pair  of  points  give 
the  per  cent  of  final  route  offered  traffic  which  was  first  routed  (random). 
In  general,  approximately  equal  amounts  of  the  two  types  of  traffic  were 
offered. 

In  6  of  the  hours  almost  identical  loss  ratios  were  observed,  in  7  hours 
the  overflow-from-high-usage  calls  showed  higher  losses,  and  in  4  hours 
lower  losses,  than  the  corresponding  first  routed  calls.  The  non-random 
calls  clearly  enjoyed  practically  as  good  service  as  the  random  calls.  This 
result  is  not  in  disagreement  with  what  one  might  expect  from  theory. 
To  compare  directly  with  the  Newark-Pittsburgh  case  we  should  need 
curves  on  Fig.  38  expanded  to  correspond  to  A',  V  values  of  (50,  85) 
to  (120,  200).  Examining  the  mid-range  case  of  C  =  65,  A'  =  70,  V  = 
120,  we  find  A  =  123,  >S  =  54.  Here  A  is  approximately  2C;  extrapolat- 
ing the  A  =  2C  curves  of  Fig.  38  to  these  much  higher  values  of  A  and  C 
suggests  that  R2/R1  w^ould  be  but  little  different  from  unity. 


486  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

It  is  clear  from  the  above  theory,  throwdowns,  and  actual  observa- 
tion that  there  are  certain  areas  where  the  service  differences  given  first 
routed  and  high  usage  trunk  overflow  parcels  of  traffic  are  significant. 
In  Section  8,  where  practical  engineering  methods  are  discussed,  curves 
are  presented  which  permit  recognition  of  this  fact  in  the  determination 
of  final  trunk  requirements. 

7.6  Load  on  Each  Trunk,  Particularly  the  Last  Trunk,  in  a  Non-Slipped 
Alternate  Route 

In  the  engineering  of  alternate  route  systems  it  is  necessary  to  deter- 
mine the  point  at  which  to  limit  a  high  usage  group  of  trunks  and  send 
the  overflow  traffic  via  an  alternate  route.  This  is  an  economic  problem 
whose  solution  requires  an  estimate  of  the  load  which  will  be  carried  on 


1.0 


0.5 


z 

o 

il'     0.05 
a. 

UJ 

> 

o 

z 
o 
I- 
cc 
o 
a. 
O 
a. 
a-  O.OiO 


0.005 


0.00)0 


6       64 
56       8' 


57 


61( 


OL  65^  69, 
40 


56 
o 


50 


,58 


41 


58 


69 

8 


64 


52 


s 

38 


6 
66 


49 

8 


52 


O     FIRST    ROUTED    TRAFFIC    (NUMBERS    INDICATE    PER 
CENT    OF     TOTAL    WHICH    IS    FIRST    ROUTED) 

•     OVERFLOW    TRAFFIC    FROM    7    HIGH    USAGE    GROUPS 


60  70  80  90  100  110  120 

A'=  ESTIMATED    OFFERED    LOAD     TO    PITTSBURGH    IN    ERLANGS    (INCLUDING    RETRIALS) 


Fig.  39  —  Comparison  of  losses  on  final  route  (Newark  to  Pittsburgh)  for  high 
usage  overflow  and  first  routed  traffic. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.         487 

the  last  trunk  of  a  straight  high  usage  group  of  any  specified  size,  carry- 
ing either  first  or  higher  choice  traffic  or  a  mixture  thereof.* 

The  Equivalent  Random  theory  readily  supplies  estimates  of  the  loads 
carried  by  any  trunk  in  an  alternate  routing  network.  After  having  found 
the  Equivalent  Random  load  A  offered  to  *S  +  C  trunks  which  corresponds 
to  the  given  parameters  of  the  traffic  offered  to  the  C  trunks,  it  is  a  simple 
matter  to  calculate  the  expected  load  i  on  any  one  of  the  C  trunks  if 
they  are  not  slipped  or  reversed.  The  load  on  the  ith  trunk  in  a  simple 
straight  multiple  (or  the  S  +  jth.  in  a  divided  multiple  of  *S  lower  and  C 
upper  trunks),  is 

A-  =  Is+j  =  A[E^,s+j-M)  -  Ex,s+j{A)]  (33) 

where  Ei,n(A)  is  the  Erlang  loss  formula.  A  moderate  range  of  values  of 
■Ci  versus  load  A  is  given  on  Figure  40. f 

Using  this  method,  selected  comparisons  of  theoretical  versus  observed 
loads  carried  on  particular  trunks  at  various  points  in  the  Murray- 
Hill-6  throwdown  are  shown  in  Fig.  41 ;  these  include  the  loads  on  each 
of  the  trunks  of  the  first  two  OST  groups  of  Fig.  32,  and  on  the  second 
and  third  alternate  routes,  crossbar  and  suburban  tandem,  respectively. 
The  agreement  is  seen  to  be  fairly  good,  although  at  the  tail  end  of  the 
latter  two  groups  the  observed  values  drop  aw^ay  somewhat  from  the 
theoretical  ones.  There  seems  no  explanation  for  this  beyond  the  possi- 
bility that  the  throwdown  load  samples  here  are  becoming  small  and 
might  by  chance  have  deviated  this  far  from  the  true  values  (or  the 
arbitrary  breakdown  of  OST  overflows  into  parcels  offered  to  and  by- 
passing XBT  may  well  have  introduced  errors  of  sufficient  amount  to 
account  for  this  disparity).  As  is  well  known,  (33)  gives  good  estimates 
of  the  loads  carried  by  each  trunk  in  a  high  usage  group  to  which  random 
(Poisson)  traffic  is  offered;  this  relationship  has  long  been  used  for  the 
purpose  in  Bell  System  trunk  engineering. 

8.  PRACTICAL  METHODS  FOR  ALTERNATE  ROUTE  ENGINEERING 

To  reduce  to  practical  use  the  theory  so  far  presented  for  analysis  of 
alternate  route  systems,  working  curves  are  needed  incorporating  the 


*  The  proper  selection  point  will  be  where  the  circuit  annual  charge  per  erlang 
of  traffic  carried  on  the  last  trunk,  is  just  equal  to  the  annual  charge  per  erlang 
of  traffic  carried  by  the  longer  (usually)  alternate  route  enlarged  to  handle  the 
overflow  traffic. 

t  A  comprehensive  table  of  /<  is  given  by  A.  Jensen  as  Table  IV  in  his  book 
"Moe's  Principle,"  Copenhagen,  1950;  coverage  is  for  /  ^  0.001  erlang,  z  =  1(1)140; 
A  =  0.1(0.1)10,  10(1)50,  50(4)100.  Note  that  n  +  1,  in  Jensen's  notation,  equals  i 
here. 


488  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 


6 


<0 

6 


ID 

6  6  6 

soNvibB  Ni  viNnai  Hi-n  3hi  no  agiaavD  avon 


=  '-Tf 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A. 


489 


pertinent  load-loss  relationships.  The  methods  so  far  discussed,  and 
proposed  for  use,  will  be  briefly  reviewed. 

The  dimensioning  of  each  high  usage  group  of  trunks  is  expected  to  be 
performed  in  the  manner  currently  in  use,  as  described  in  Section  7.6. 
The  critical  figure  in  this  method  is  the  load  carried  on  the  last  high 
usage  trunk,  and  is  chosen  so  as  to  yield  an  economic  division  of  the 
offered  load  between  high  usage  and  alternate  route  trunks.  Fig.  40  is 
one  form  of  load-on-each-trunk  presentation  suitable  for  choosing  eco- 
nomic high  usage  group  size  once  the  permitted  load  on  the  last  trunk 
is  established. 

The  character  (average  a  and  variance  v)  of  the  traffic  overflowing 
each  high  usage  group  is  easily  found  from  Figs.  12  and  13  (or  equivalent 


-      OST   GROUP    NO.  2 


1.U 

OST   GROUP   NO.l 

0.5 

- 

^ 

0 

4  5  6 

TRUNK    NUMBER 


CROSSBAR    TANDEM    GROUP 


Z      0 
O 


2  4 


6  8  10         12         14         16         18         20       22 

TRUNK    NUMBER 


SUBURBAN   TANDEM   GROUP 


12  4  6  8  10  12  14  16 

TRUNK   NUMBER 


Fig.  41  —  Comparison  of  load  carried  by  each  alternate  route  trunk;  theory 
versus  throwdowns. 


490 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


tables).  The  respective  sums  of  the  overflow  a's  and  v^s,  give  A'  and  V 
by  (28)  and  (29);  they  provide  the  necessary  statistical  description  of 
traffic  offered  to  the  alternate  route. 

According  to  the  Equivalent  Random  method  for  estimating  the  alter- 
nate route  trunks  required  to  provide  a  specified  grade  of  service  to  the 
overflow  traffic  A',  one  next  determines  a  random  load  A  which  when 
submitted  to  S  trunks  will  yield  an  overflow  with  the  same  character 
{A',  V)  as  that  derived  from  the  complex  system's  high  usage  groups. 
An  alternate  route  of  C  trunks  beyond  these  S  trunks  is  then  imagined. 
The  erlang  overflow  a',  with  random  offer  A,  to  S  +  C  trunks  is  found 
from  standard  i^i-formula  tables  or  curves  (such  as  Fig.  12). 

The  ratio  R2  =  a!  I  A'  is  a  first  estimate  of  the  grade  of  service  given  to 
each  parcel  of  traffic  offered  to  the  alternate  route.  As  discussed  in  Sec- 
tion 7.5,  this  service  estimate,  under  certain  conditions  of  load  and 
trunk  arrangement,  may  be  significantly  pessimistic  when  applied  to  a 
first  routed  parcel  of  traffic  offered  directly  to  the  alternate  route.  An 
improved  estimate  of  the  overflow  probability  for  such  first  routed 
traffic  was  found  to  be  R\  as  given  by  (30). 

8,1  Determination  of  Final  Group  Size  with  First  Routed  Traffic  Offered 
Directly  to  the  Final  Group 

When  first  routed  traffic  is  offered  directly  to  the  final  group,  its 
service  Ri  will  nearly  always  be  poorer  than  the  overall  service  given  to 
those  other  traffic  parcels  enjoying  high  usage  groups.  The  first  routed 
traffic's  service  will  then  be  controlling  in  determining  the  final  group 
size.  Since  Ri  is  a  function  of  *S,  C  and  A  in  the  Equivalent  Random 
solution  (30),  and  there  is  a  one-to-one  correspondence  of  pairs  of  A  and 
S  values  with  A'  and  V  values,  engineering  charts  can  be  constructed  at 
selected  service  levels  Ri  which  shoAv  the  final  route  trunks  C  required, 
for  any  given  values  of  A'  and  V.  Figs.  42  to  45  show  this  relation  at 
service  levels  of  Ri  =  0.01,  0.03,  0.05  and  0.10,  respectively.* 

*  On  Fig.  42  (and  also  Figs.  46-49)  the  low  numbered  curves  assume,  atjfirst 
sight,  surprising  shapes,  indicating  that  a  load  with  given  average  and  variance 
would  require  fewer  trunks  if  the  average  were  increased.  This  arises  from  the 
sensitivity  of  the  tails  of  the  distribution  of  offered  calls,  to  the  V'/A'  peaked- 
ness  ratio  which,  of  course,  decreases  with  increases  in  A'.  For  example,  with  C 
=  4  trunks  and  fixed  V  =  0.52,  the  loss  rapidly  decreases  with  increasing  A': 


A' 

V'/A' 

A 

S 

a' 

a' /A' 

0.28 
0.33 
0.40 
0.52 

1.86 
1.58 
1.30 
1.00 

6.1 
3.0 
1.42 
0.52 

10. 
5.0 
2.03 
0 

0.0155 
0.0081 
0.0036 
0.0008 

0.055 
0.025 
0.009 
0.002 

THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  491 

These  four  Ri  levels  would  appear  to  cover  the  most  used  engineering 
range.  For  example,  if  the  traffic  offered  to  the  final  route  (including  the 
first  routed  traffic)  has  parameters  A'  =  12  and  V  ^  20,  reading  on 
Fig.  43  indicates  that  to  give  P  =  0.03  "lost  calls  cleared"  service  to 
the  first  routed  traffic,  C  =  19  final  route  trunks  should  be  provided. 
(For  random  traffic  (F'  =  A'  =  12),  17.8  trunks  would  be  required.) 

Other  charts,  of  course,  might  be  constructed  from  which  Ri  could  be 
read  for  specific  values  of  A',  V  and  C.  They  would  become  voluminous, 
however,  if  a  wide  range  of  all  three  variables  were  required. 

8.2  Provision  of  Trunks  Individual  to  First  Routed  Traffic  to  Equalize 
Service 

If  the  difference  between  the  service  Ri  given  the  first  routed  parcel  of 
traffic  and  the  service  given  all  of  the  other  parcels,  is  material,  it  may  be 
desirable  to  take  measures  to  diminish  these  inequities.  This  may  readily 
be  accomplished  by  setting  aside  a  number  of  the  otherwise  full  access 
final  route  trunks,  for  exclusive  and  first  choice  use  of  the  first  routed 
traffic.  High  usage  groups  are  now  provided  for  all  parcels  of  traffic.  The 
alternate  route  then  services  their  combined  overflow.  The  overall  grade 
of  service  given  the  ith.  parcel  of  offered  traffic  in  a  single  stage  alter- 
nate route  system  will  then  be  approximately 

'* 
Pi  =  Ei,Xi{ai)R2  =  EiXiia.)^,  (34) 

Thus  the  service  will  tend  to  be  uniform  among  the  offered  parcels  when 
all  send  substantially  identical  proportions  of  their  offered  loads  to  the 
alternate  route.  And  the  natural  provision  of  "individual"  trunks  for  the 
exclusive  use  of  the  first  routed  traffic  would  be  such  that  the  same  pro- 
portion should  overflow  as  occurs  in  the  associated  high  \isage  groups. 

This  procedure  cannot  be  followed  literally  since  high  usage  group 
size  is  fixed  b}^  economic  considerations  rather  than  any  predetermined 
overflow  value.  The  resultant  overflow  proportions  will  commonly  vary 
over  a  considerable  range.  In  this  circumstance  it  would  appear  reason- 
able to  estimate  the  objective  overflow  proportion  to  be  used  in  estab- 
lishing the  individual  group  for  the  first  routed  traffic,  as  some  weighted 
average  h  of  the  overflow  proportions  of  the  several  high  usage  groups. 
Thus  with  weights  g  and  overflow  proportions  h, 

h  =  ^'^'  +  ^'^'  +  • '  •  (35) 

^1    +    ^2+     •  •  • 


*  Although  not  exact,  this  equation  can  probably  be  accepted  for  most  engi- 
neering purposes  where  high  usage  trunks  are  provided  for  each  parcel  of  traffic. 


\ 

\ 

•* 

\ 

/ 

\ 

O-l                    SO                     0 

o 



N 

■-^ 

/ 

\ 

. 

V— 

k 

-^ 

/ 

\ 

a 

— '  ^^ 

GO 

eg 



. 

r— 

^ 

"< 

\ 

b 

<M     ^ 

fc 



J             _ 



^, 

^ 

^ 

>\ 



;;;;::; 

"^ 

. — 

— 

r"— 

b' 

q 

to                  o 
6 

si 

-     ■ 

-— 

[ _^ 

— — ' 

\_^^ 

1 

rj 

\ 

>. 

s; 

imp- 

0<V  ^ 

k^ 

>^ 

S 

\ 

O/V 

\ 

■*> 

^ 
^ 

\ 

2\/ 

K 

en 

"t 

o 

(\J 

7 

< 

1 

(M 

Ct 

(\J 

UJ 

Z 

o 

(\j 

1- 

-) 

C) 

00 

tr 

1 

< 

ID 

z 

or 

Al 

Lll 

11 

11 

o 

O 

Q 

< 

() 

_l 

on 

UJ 

O 

< 

(r 

LU 

> 

< 

II 

^ 

< 

tn 

It 

t\J 

o 

to 

(C 

^f 

r\j 

O 

n 

ro 

n 

ri 

(M 

(\J 

OJ 

OJ 

i\J 

ainoH  nvNid  Oi  aaaaddo  avoi  dO  30NviavA=,A 


- 

\ 

y\ 

0                   0.5                   1.0 

\ 

\ 

\ 

.  \ 

\ 

\ 

"V 

A 

\ 

X 

^___ 

,^ 

^ 

\ 

^ 

^ 

><: 

-^ 

^ 

\ 

A. 

^ 

OJ 

s^ 

--- 

"^ 

^ 

-\ 

c 

3 

d 

O 

s 

OJ      ^ 

sS 

I^ 

-^ 

h. 

OJ 

>c 

.—- - 

^ 

-;:: 

--^ 

b^ 

'""^o 

^^.; 

-N. 

^0*-, 

^ 

^v,^ 

s 

^ 

—  ^ 

\ 

^ 

.    .'-^ 

>X 

— 

VL 

^ 

'< 

Xj 

^ 

D 

o 
o  cr 

< 


z 


fe    '■ 


DO 


< 

o 

_1 

UJ 


o 
< 

q: 

<0    UJ 

> 
< 

II 


<o 

■^ 

(\J 

o 

<o 

<o 

■<t 

ry 

o 

ri 

n 

n 

n 

(M 

<\j 

<\j 

(\) 

(M 

3inoa  ivNid  oi  aaaaddo  avcn  do  aoNviMVA=,A 

492 


' 

1 

\ 

U1            1 

§ 

\ 

. 

\ 

<*) 

Q     - 

in 
d 

\ 

s 

\, 

"X^^ 

\ 

- 

^ 

\ 

c 

\ 

. 

^ 

\ 

m 
■v. 

\ 

? 

\ 

^ 

^ 

\~ 

;; 

\ 

X 

\ 

^^ 

^ 

\ 

1. 

! 

A 

; 

\ 

Ok 

^^^ 

-^ 

^^ 

CO 

, jX.      in                     o                    >n                    c 

^\^           i 

nv 

' 

r~- 

<c 

-\ 

k 

1 

^ 

in 

^ 

^ 

1      j 

\^ 

1 

'\r 

K> 

' 

^ 

1 

f\i' 

"* ;.   =^-^ 

— 

k 

J 

■^A,   1         2" 

■^^ 

O/v 

Oi 

^ 

t^ 

1 

(OV^ 

\ 

L._      . 

' 

^f\10<D<0^f\JO(0<0^f>JO<0(£i^OJO 
rrionrvjruryrvirvj          —          —          —          ^          — 

ainoa  ivNid  oi  asaaddo  avoi  dO  30NvidVA=,A 

\ 

\ 

q      - 

in 
d 

o     - 

\ 

\ 



\. 

^ 

\ 

i 

r 





' 

^ 

^ 

\ 

' 

. 

N 

^ 

^ 

! 

^1 

>^ 





. 

. 

\ 

\ 

^ 
( 

J  ^^'^s,. 



—     - 

, 

X        U1                         O                         "1                        o 

o 
rvj 

2 

N 



' — ' 

^s 

2 

<>1 

S^ 

— 

\ 

^% 

>==:: 

— 

■ 

^ 

i 

04., 

^ 



—^ 

OA/ 

V; 

a^Vfc. 

^s 

^ 

<. 

\ 

^ 

k 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

^              0 

J         c 

>           a 

t             C 

3i 

5            r 

t             0 

J         r 
VNId 

U              C 
'J             0 

0±   Q: 

5          a 
J 

)HBdd( 

D          u 
D  OVO 

4 

3             •< 

n  do 
93 

i      1 

30NV 

U          c 

avA  = 

-A 

D            U 

5             ■< 

X           ^ 

J       o 

Tf   <n 

z 
< 

rvj 


LU 


i:    Z 


c3 


3 
O 

m 

ki 

ml 
> 

bO 
O 

CO 

a 

3 

-1^ 


(\J 

q: 

LU 

t-i 

U- 

, , 

o 

LL 

o 
< 

C 

to 

o 

e^-i 

_l 

o 

0} 

UJ 

r-. 

o 

o     • 

< 

•t;o 

10 

LU 

.2-^ 

> 

>o 

< 

o 

■f 

II 

1  i^ 

rvj 

"5  o 

O 

bD  « 

(O 

o 

Cli 

E 

(O 

<\j 

-T3 

0) 

^ 

If) 
o 

4J 

/. 

o 

< 

» 

OJ 

_l 

■4-3 

ft 

tc 

LU 

!-. 

7 

«3 

o 

OJ 

on 

LU 

> 

1- 
-5 

00 

g 

O 

-u 

_| 

to 

< 

^ 

(D 

^i 

C 

Li- 

? 

P 

-fj 

■<t 

K 

<u 

U 

-tJ 

nj 

Ct 
lU 

o 

Li- 

u. 

,_^ 

o 

o3 

o 

n 

a 

< 

n 

«a 

_) 

o 

cu 

LU 
LO 

< 

o  ^ 

Ct 

.-.IC 

<o 

LU 

.^O 

i, 

>o 

II 

y  II 

Ph 


c^ 


^ 

Ct-H 

'^ 

O 

. 

n> 

u 

CJ 

•  fH 

t^H 

> 

tH 

0) 

<u 

494  THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

A  choice  of  all  weights  g  equal  to  unity  will  often  be  satisfactory  for  the 
present  purpose.  The  desired  high  usage  group  size  for  the  first  routed 
traffic  is  then  found  from  standard  £'i-tables  showing  trunks  x  required, 
as  a  function  of  offered  traffic  a  and  proportion  overflow  b. 

Since  the  different  parcels  of  traffic  have  varying  proportions  h  of  their  ' 
loads  overflowing  to  the  final  route,  by  equation  (34)  the  parcel  with 
the  largest  proportion  will  determine  the  permitted  value  of  R2 .  Thus     ' 

R2   =   P/&max  (36) 

where  P  is  the  specified  poorest  overall  service  (say  0.03)  for  any  parcel. 
It  may  be  noted  that  on  occasion  some  one  parcel,  perhaps  a  small  one, 
may  provide  an  outstandingly  large  bmax  value,  which  will  tend  to  give 
a  considerably  better  than  required  service  to  all  the  major  traffic 
parcels.  Some  compromise  with  a  literal  application  of  a  fixed  poorest 
service  criterion  may  be  indicated  in  such  cases. 

An  alternative  and  somewhat  simpler  procedure  here  is  to  use  an 
average  value  b  in  (36)  instead  of  ^max  ,  with  a  compensating  modifica-  , 
tion  of  F,  so  that  substantially  the  same  R2  is  obtained  as  before.  The 
allowance  in  P  will  be  influenced  by  the  choice  of  weights  g  in  (35).  It 
will  commonly  be  found  in  practice  that  overflow  proportions  to  final 
groups  for  large  parcels  of  traffic  are  lower  than  for  small  parcels.  Choos- 
ing all  weights,  as  unity,  as  opposed  to  weighting  by  traffic  volumes  for  : 
example,  tends  to  insert  a  small  element  of  service  protection  for  those  , 
traffic  parcels  (often  the  smaller  ones)  with  the  higher  prportionate  high  . 
usage  group  overflows. 

Having  determined  R2 ,  a  ready  means  is  needed  for  estimating  the 
required  number  of  final  route  trunks.  Curves  for  this  purpose  are  pro- 
vided on  Figs.  46  to  49,  within  whose  range,  R2  =  0.01  to  0.10,  it  will 
usually  be  sufficiently  accurate  to  interpolate  for  trunk  engineering 
purposes.  These  F2-curves  exactly  parallel  the  i?i-curves  for  use  when 
first  routed  traffic  is  offered  directly  to  the  final  group  without  benefit 
of  individual  high  usage  trunks.  If  R2  is  well,  outside  the  charted  range 
a  run-through  of  the  ER  calculations  may  be  required. 

8.3  Area  in  Which  Significant  Savings  in  Final  Route  Trunks  are  Realized 
by  Allowing  for  the  Preferred  Service  Given  a  First  Routed  Traffic  Parcel 

Considerable  effort  has  been  expended  by  alternate  route  research 
workers  in  various  countries  to  discover  and  evaluate  those  areas  where 
first  routed  (random)  traffic  ofl'ered  to  a  final  route  enjoj^s  a  substantial 
service  advantage  over  competing  parcels  of  traffic  which  have  over- 


, 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  495 

flowed  from  high  usage  groups.  A  comparison  of  Figs.  42  to  45,  (which 
indicate  trunk  provision  for  meeting  a  first  routed  traffic  criterion  Ri) 
with  Figs.  46  to  49  (which  indicate  trunk  provision  for  meeting  a  com- 
posite-load-offered-to-the-final-route  criterion  R2)  gives  a  means  for  de- 
ciding under  what  conditions  in  practice  it  is  important  to  distinguish 
between  the  two  criteria.  Fig.  50  shows  the  borders  of  areas,  defined  in 
terms  of  A'  and  V,  the  characterizing  parameters  of  the  total  load 
offered  to  the  final  route,  where  a  2  and  5  per  cent  overprovision  of  final 
trunks  would  occur  using  R2  for  Ri  as  the  loss  measure  for  first  routed 
traffic.  Thus  in  the  alternate  route  examples  displayed  in  Table  XV, 
where  x  =  S,  g  =  2  to  10,  A'  =  4.0  and  V  varies  from  5.80  to  5.45, 
Fig.  50  shows  that  by  failing  to  allow  for  the  preferred  position  of  the  2 
erlang  first  routed  parcel,  we  should  at  R  =  0.02  engineered  loss,  provide 
a  little  over  5  per  cent  more  final  trunks  than  necessary.  (Actually  10.2 
and  9.9  versus  9.6  and  9.4  trunks  f or  gr  =  2  and  10;  respectively.) 

The  curves  of  Fig.  50  for  final  route  loads  larger  than  a  few  erlangs, 
are  almost  straight  lines.  At  an  objective  engineering  base  of  i?  =  0.03, 
for  example,  the  2  and  5  per  cent  trunk  overprovision  areas  through 
using  i?2  instead  of  Ri  are  outlined  closely  by: 

2  per  cent  overprovision  occurs  at  Fy(A'  —  1)  =  1.4 
5  per  cent  overprovision  occurs  at  V'/(A'  —  1)  =  1.8. 

Thus  in  the  range  of  loads  covered  by  Fig.  50,  one  might  conclude  that 
useful  and  determinable  savings  in  final  trunks  can  be  achieved  by  use 
of  the  specialized  /?i-curves  instead  of  the  more  general  7?2-curves,  when 
the  ratio  V'/(A'  —  1)  exceeds  some  figure  in  the  1.4  to  1.8  range,  say  1.6. 
(In  the  examples  just  cited  the  V'/{A'  —  1)  ratio  is  approximately  1.9.) 

8.4.  Character  of  Traffic  Carried  on  Non-Final  Routes 

Telephone  traffic  which  is  carried  by  a  non-final  route  will  ordinarily 
be  subjected  to  a  peak  clipping  process  which  will  depress  the  variance 
of  the  carried  portion  below  that  of  the  offered  load.  If  this  traffic  ter- 
minates at  the  distant  end  of  the  route,  its  character,  while  conceivably 
affecting  the  toll  and  local  switching  trains  in  that  office,  will  not  require 
further  consideration  for  intertoll  trunk  engineering.  If,  however,  some 
or  all  of  the  route's  load  is  to  be  carried  on  toll  facilities  to  a  more  distant 
point  (the  common  situation),  the  character  of  such  parcels  of  traffic  will 
l)e  of  interest  in  providing  suitable  subsequent  paths.  For  this  purpose 
it  will  be  desirable  to  have  etimates  of  the  mean  and  variance  of  these 
carried  parcels. 

When  a  random  traffic  of  "a"  erlangs  is  offered  to  a  group  of  "c"  paths 


\ 

\ 

q 

6 
o 

\ 

\. 

^ 

^ 

^N 

\ 

\ 

[^ 

^ 

.^^ 

^ 

^ 

\ 

\ 

o 

CM 

,— • 

^__„„— - 

.^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

\\r\j 

^ 

-- — 

-^ 

\ 

1 

H 

^ 

to 

>< 

^ 

^ 

*\      »n                     o                    lo 

c 

<?, 

K 

^^ 

^ 

^ 

x> 

^ 

^ 

,  ^ 

^ 

^ 

\ 

'^'^. 

x] 

^^ 

^ 

X 

^vj 

y 

/ 

\ 

^ 

^ 

0 

\ 

^ 

^*nJ 

^ 

to 

k 

a> 

(v 

«> 

(M 

•f 

(d 

(\J 

o 

7 

< 

f\l 

_J 

f\l 

ir 

?■ 

O 

fVJ 

ILI 

t- 

-) 

en 

C) 

ir 

1 

< 

<o 

z 

Q 
UJ 


Q 
< 

3 


UJ 

< 

a: 

«     UJ 


(0 

< 

(M 

O 

<0 

<o 

^ 

(\J 

O 

<») 

10 

M 

fO 

fVJ 

<\l 

(M 

(M 

(M 

ainob  "ivNid  oi  a3a3ddo  a\»cn  jo  3DNviavA=,A 


\ 

1 

\ 

)                    0.5                  1.0 

1 1 1            1 1 1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

^ 

x 

^ 

^ 

X 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

rn 

(\j  ^ 

CM     ^Ni 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

^ 

ri 

q 

vO                        c 

d 

OJ 

rvj 

>c 

^ 

^ 

\ 

V 

-;;; 

^-^ 

^^ 

^ 

'"Vo 

^^^. 

H,° 

">r 

^ 

/-^ 
^ 

X. 

^  7 

^^^^. 

'0  r 

/ 

/ 

U/v 

^ 

l^ 

V 

> 

V 

i^ 

^^ 

k 

OO 

OJ 

lO 

C\J 

<* 

</l 

M 

0> 

?• 

< 

(\J 

_1 

a 

UJ 

7 

o 

(\I 

UJ 

t- 

"3 

OO 

<1 

a. 

\ 

(0 

< 
z 

u. 

2 

P 

n 

Ul 

(\1 

cr 

UJ 

u. 

u. 

CJ 

O 

n 

< 

o 

-J 

OO 

UJ 

O 

< 

fr 

(O 

UJ 

> 

4. 

K> 

■* 

fVJ 

o 

CO 

<o 

•<r 

AJ 

o 

n 

(«) 

n 

rn 

<\J 

f\J 

(\j 

(\j 

(\J 

Binoa  ivNid  01  aaaaddo  avon  do  3DNviavA=,A 

496 


< 

. 

K 

r       -'  ^ 

N 

1 

O 

6 
o 

- 

■"^ 

\. 

K 

^  (J 
< 

- 

_-— -= 

\ 

\l 

\ 

-= 

-- 

\ 

"^ 

\ 

\ 



rvj  uj 
O 

^ 

. 

—■ 

\ 

^^^ 

^ 

^ 

K 

. — ' 

-^ 

^^ 

-- 

\ 

^s^ 

^ 

""   _l 

< 

(0  z 

CO 

^ 

^ 

, ■ 



"^ 

\= 

q 

o 

c 

^    LL 

c 

< 

c---' 

^ 

\ 

\ 

ILI 

(\J  >u 

s-i, 

^ 

^ 

^" 

-  u. 

u. 

O 
O   Q 

'-^'^q 

^'^. 

i^K 

"^ 

^ 

, 

N 

_J 

Oa, 

^ 

s< 

y 

It 

^ 

^ 

>s 

II 

r^ 

^ 

is 

•c' 

4^ 

^ 

^ 

r 

r 
r 

VI 

c 

r 

3 

r 

0 

VJ 

r 

0             ■< 

y          r 

i          a 

D           il 

s          ^ 

f 

r 

y        c 

3 

a 

3              U 

a        ^ 

f            N 

o 

ainoa  nvNid  ojl  oaaaddo  avoi  do  30NviyvA=,A 


■^ 

rvi 

o 

CO 

<o 

^ 

(NJ 

o 

fO 

ro 

m 

rvj 

(\J 

rvj 

(\j 

(M 

3inoa  nvNid  oi  aaaajdo  avon  do  30NvibVA=  a 

497 


498  THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


2  4  6  8         10        12         14        16         18       20        22       24       26 

A' ==  AVERAGE   LOAD  OFFERED  TO  FINAL  ROUTE  IN   ERLANGS 


28 


Fig.  50  —  Overprovision  of  final  route  trunks  when  R2  is  used  instead  of  Ri 
as  service  to  first  routed  traffic. 

and  overflowing  calls  do  not  return,  the  variance  of  the  carried  load  is 
Fed  =  a[l  -  Er, ,  (a)]  fl  +  aE^, ,  (a)  -  aEi, ,  _i(a)]*  (37) 

and  the  ratio  of  variance  to  average  of  the  carried  load  is 


V 


cd 


=  1  -  a  [£-1,0-1  (a)  -  Ei,c(a)]* 


=     1     -    /c 


(38) 


These  particular  forms  are  due  to  P.  J.  Burke. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  EXGINEERIXG  IX  THE  U.  S.  A.  499 

From  (38)  it  is  easy  to  see  that 

Fed  =  L{1  -  Q 

=  (Load  carried  by  the  group)  (1  —  load  on  last  trunk)     (39) 

This  is  a  convenient  relationship  since  for  high  usage  trunk  study  work, 
both  the  loads  carried  (in  eriangs)  on  the  group  and  on  the  last  trunk 
will  ordinarily  be  at  hand. 

If  the  high  usage  group's  load  is  to  be  split  in  various  directions  at 
the  distant  point  for  re-offer  to  other  groups,  it  would  appear  not  un- 
reasonable to  assign  a  variance  to  each  portion  so  as  to  maintain  the 
ratio  expressed  in  eciuation  (38).  That  is,  if  a  carried  load  L  is  divided 
into  parts  Xi  ,  X2  •  •  •  where  L  =  Xi  -f  X2  •  •  •  ,  then  the  associated 
variances  71 ,  72  .  .  •  would  be 

71  =  Xi  (1  -  fc) 

y,  =  Xo  (1  -  fc)  (40) 


If,  however,  the  load  offered  to  the  group  is  non-random  (e.g.,  the 
group  is  an  intermediate  route  in  a  multi-alternate  route  system),  the 
procedure  is  not  quite  so  simple  as  in  the  random  case  just  discussed. 
Equation  (32)  expresses  the  variance  Vc  of  the  carried  load  on  a  group 
of  C  paths  whose  'offered  traffic  consists  of  the  overflow  from  a  first 
group  of  S  paths  to  which  a  random  load  of  A  eriangs  has  been  offered. 
Vc  could  of  course  be  expressed  in  terms  of  A',  V  and  C,  and  curves  or 
tables  constructed  for  working  purposes.  However,  such  are  not  avail- 
able, and  in  any  case  might  be  unwieldy  for  practical  use. 

A  simple  alternative  procedure  can  be  used  which  jdelds  a  conserva- 
tive (too  large)  estimate  of  carried  load  variance.  With  random  load 
offered  to  a  divided  two  stage  multiple  of  x  paths  followed  by  tj  paths,  a 
positive  correlation  exists  between  the  numbers  m  and  n  of  calls  present 
simultaneously  on  the  x  and  y  paths,  respectively.  Then  the  variance 
V-n+n  of  the  m  -\-  n  distribution  is  greater  than  the  sum  of  the  individual 
variances  of  m  and  n, 

y  m-\-n    ^      '   m      l~     '   n 


or 


Vm    <    y^n    -    Vn  (41) 


Now  n  can  be  chosen  arbitrarily,  and  if  made  very  large,  Vm+n  becomes 
the  offered  load  variance,  and  F„  the  overflow  load  variance.  Both  of 
these  are  usually  (or  can  be  made)  available.  Their  difference  then, 
according  to  (41)  gives  an  upper  limit  to  F,„ ,  the  desired  carried  load 


500  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Table  XVI — Approximate  Determination  of  the  Variance 

OF  Carried  Loads; 
X  lower  paths,  8  upper  paths;  offer  to  upper  paths  =  3  erlangs 


Lower  Paths,  x 

Upper  Paths,  y 

No. 
Lower 
Paths 

X 

Random 

offered 

load 

A  (=  V) 

Variance 

of 
overflow 

Vn 

Estimated 
variance 

of  carried 

load 
V  -Vn 

True 

variance  of 

carried  load 

Eq  (37) 

Variance 
of  offer 

V   (=    Vn) 

(Col  3) 

Variance  of 

overflow 

V" 

Estimated 

variance 

of  cd  load 

V  -  V" 

True 

variance 

of  cd  load 

(Brocli- 

meyer) 

(1) 

0 

3 

6 

12 

(2) 

3.00 

5.399 

7.856 

12.882 

(3) 

3.00 
4.05 
4.98 
6.22 

(4) 

0 
1.35 

2.88 
6.66 

(5) 

0 

0.60 
1.418 
3.538 

(6) 

3.00 
4.05 
4.95 
6.22 

(7) 

0.035 
0.121 
0.236 
0.520 

(8) 

2.97 
3.93 
4.74 
5.70 

(9) 

2.853 
3.664 
4.175 
4.790 

variance-  Corresponding  reasoning  yields  the  same  conclusion  when  the 
offered  load  before  the  x  paths  is  non-random. 

A  numerical  example  by  Brockmeyer"  while  clearly  insufficient  iu 
establish  the  degree  of  the  inequality  (41),  indicates  something  as  to  the 
discrepancy  introduced  by  this  approximate  procedure.  Comparison  with 
the  true  values  is  shown  in  Table  XVI. 

In  the  case  of  random  offer  to  the  0,  3,  6,  12  "lower  paths,"  the  ap- 
proximate method  of  equation  (41)  overestimates  the  variance  of  the 
carried  load  by  nearly  two  to  one  (columns  4  and  5  of  Table  XVI).  The 
exact  procedure  of  (37)  is  then  clearly  desirable  when  it  is  applicable, 
that  is  when  random  traffic  is  being  offered.  For  the  8  upper  paths  to 
which  non-random  load  is  offered  (the  non-randomness  is  suggested  by 
comparing  the  variance  of  column  6  in  Table  XVI  with  the  average 
offered  load  of  3  erlangs),  the  approximate  formula  (41)  gives  a  not  too 
extravagant  overestimate  of  the  true  carried  load  variance.  Until  curves 
or  tables  are  computed  from  equation  (32),  it  would  appear  useful  to 
follow  the  above  procedure  for  estimating  the  carried  load  variance 
when  non-random  load  is  offered. 


8.5.  Solution  of  a  Typical  Toll  Multi- Alternate  Route  TrunJcing  Arrange- 
ment: Bloomsburg,  Pa. 

In  Fig.  9  a  typical,  moderately  complex,  toll  alternate  route  layout 
was  illustrated.  It  is  centered  on  the  toll  office  at  Bloomsburg,  Pa.  The 
loads  to  be  carried  between  Bloomsburg  and  the  ten  surrounding  cities 
are  indicated  in  CCS  (hundred  call  seconds  per  hour  of  traffic;  36  CCS  = 
1  erlang).  The  numbers  of  direct  high  usage  trunks  shown  are  assumed 
to  have  been  determined  by  an  economic  study;  we  are  asked  to  find 


I 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  501 


the  number  of  trunks  which  should  be  installed  on  the  Bloomsburg- 
Harrisburg  route,  so  that  the  last  trunk  will  carry  approximately  18 
CCS  (0.50  erlang).  Following  this  determination,  (a)  the  number  of  final 
trunks  from  Bloomsburg  to  Scranton  is  desired  so  that  the  poorest 
service  given  to  any  of  the  original  parcels  of  traffic  will  be  no  more  than 
3  calls  in  100  meeting  NC.  Also  (6)  the  modified  Bloomsburg-Scranton 
trunk  arrangement  is  to  be  determined  when  a  high  usage  group  is  pro- 
vided for  the  first  routed  traffic. 

Solution  (a):  First  Routed  Traffic  Offered  Directly  to  Final  Group 

The  offered  loads  in  CCS  to  each  distant  point  are  shown  in  column 
(2)  of  Table  XVII;  the  corresponding  erlang  values  are  in  column  (3). 
Consulting  Figs.  12  and  13,  the  direct  group  overflow  load  parameters, 
average  and  variance,  are  read  and  entered  in  columns  (5)  and  (6)  re- 
spectively for  the  four  groups  overflowing  to  Harrisburg,  and  in  columns 
(7)  and  (8)  for  the  four  groups  directly  overflowing  to  Scranton.  The 
variance  for  the  direct  Bloomsburg-Harrisburg  traffic  equals  its  average ; 
likewise  for  the  direct  Bloomsburg-Scranton  traffic.  They  are  so  entered 
in  the  table.  The  parameters  of  the  total  load  on  the  Harrisburg  group 
are  found  by  totalhng,  giving  A'  =  11.19,  and  V  =  19.90. 

The  required  size  Ci  of  the  Harrisburg  group  is  now  determined  by 
the  Equivalent  Random  theory.  Entering  Fig.  25  with  A'  and  V  just 
determined,  the  ER  values  of  trunks  and  load  found  are  Si  =  13.55, 
and  Ai  =  23.75.  Ci  is  to  be  selected  so  that  on  a  straight  group  of  Si  + 
Ci  trunks  with  offered  load  A,  the  last  trunk  will  carry  0.50  erlang. 
Reading  from  Fig.  40,  the  load  carried  by  the  26th  trunk  approximates 
this  figure.  Hence  Ci  =  26  —  *Si  =  12.45  trunks;  or  choose  12  trunks. 

The  overflow  load's  mean  and  variance  from  the  Harrisburg  group 
v/ith  12  trunks,  is  now  read  from  Figs.  12  and  13,  entering  with  load 
Ai  =  23.75  and  Ci  -\-  Si  =  25.55  trunks.  The  overflow  values  (a'  = 
2.50  and  v'  =  7.50)  are  entered  in  columns  (7)  and  (8)  of  the  table. 
The  total  offered  load  to  Scranton  is  now  obtained  by  totalling  columns 
(7)  and  (8),  giving  A"  =  16.27  and  V"  =  25.60. 

We  desire  now  to  know  the  number  of  trunks  C2  for  the  Scranton 
group  which  will  provide  NC  3  per  cent  of  the  time  to  the  poorest  service 
parcel  of  traffic,  i.e.,  the  first  routed  Bloomsburg-Scranton  parcel.  The 
Ri  =  0.03  and  R2  =  0.03  solutions  are  available,  the  former  of  course 
being  more  closely  applicable.  A  check  reference  to  Fig.  50  shows  a 
difference  of  approximately  4  per  cent  in  trunk  provision  would  result 
from  the  two  methods.  Entering  Figs.  43  and  47  with  A"  =  16.27  and 


502 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


J 

¥ 

>-  O  0) 

o 

05 
l-H 

CO 

^ 

lO 

•  CCI  O  --I  CO 

CO 

"O  CO  lO  I-H  >* 

,X  ^  lO  ^  (M 
<wIt-H  Oi-H  (M 

(N 

-IJ 

aj 

P  I-   o 

'-'  03  ■*  CO  U5 

<M 

I-H 

'a 

•  pH 

S-i 

P^ 

(N   --1  OOOO 

g     X    oddd 

d 

I-H 

d 

II 

§ 

"o 

"o 

o 

l-o 

3   cS 
II 

m 
m 

o 
o 

|2 

<  o 

O 

o 

o 

I-H  O  00  t^ 

'^ 

o 

( -* 

00  C3  CO  >o 

I-H 

CO 

m 

o 

-4-* 

o 

dcO  I-H  I-H 

d 

T-H 

J 

OO 

"3 

-tj 

pq 

o  a 

l> 

II 

£3 
03 

% 

3  o 

^ 

O. 

02 

O  OOOcO 

-* 

t^ 

M 

•na 

iO(M  OOOT 

I-H 

(M 

CO 

Iz; 

5g 

di-n'dd 

d 

d 

o 
o 

2^ 

c4 

t^ 

s 

I-H 

T-H 

II 

H 

c<> 

05 

P 

- 

^ 

(M 

ic  ic  o  CO 

t^ 

o 

II 

o 

o 

rrj 

coco  o  t^ 

dec  t^i-H 

05 
T-H 

> 

H 

§§• 

P>  be 

O 

li 

ti 

H 

►J  o 

E 

kC 

*< 
^ 

CO  bO 

^ 

co' 

r-H 

« 

II 

W 

tn  J^ 

O  OCDCO 

t^ 

Oi 

Eh 

•n.ss 

cot^co  o 

^ 

T-H 

^ 

CM 

O  <m"  (M  .-H 

-<J< 

l-H 

^ 

2K 

43 

S   bO 

in 

I-H 
11 

bD 

a 

o 

u 

^ 

CO 

^ 

^ 

o 

"S^^ 

■* 

< 

bi) 

J 

C  S'  s  ^ 

rf 

T-HIO  OiC 

^ 

ICGOOOIO 

P 

.-H(M 

o 

(M 

a 

■    OJ    C  S 

o 

;h 

«4H 

< 

T3 

-a 

w 

(A 

oPh 

t> 

bO 

bO 

(N        Oi^ 

t-- 

(MC^COOO 

'^ 

lO  ^— ' 

H-t 

L- 

C 

,,-^ 

l>-0^'* 

rt< 

"^i  <N  CO  C^ 

I-H 

:3 

-2 

•^ 

• 

co'^' 

l-H 

""^ 

oiod^" 

-* 

COCOCO  Tf< 

d 

I-H       . 

c  "J 

w 

.—1  i-H 

(M 

I-H 

II  IM 

H 

oO 

^^^ 

TJ 

OQ 

P 

<u  -^ 

a> 

tJ 

!U    (0 

M 

l-H 

_ 

CO   O  r-f   O 

T-H 

CO  CO  00^ 

>o 

•  rH 

n 

fS 

(M  '^  OCO 

CO 

(M  CO  <M  lO 

CO 

u 

lO  O  T-H 

I-H 

rH  00(M  I-H 

CO 

<a 

l-H 

t3 
til 

"       o 

> 

o 

to 

XI 

:3 
•♦J 

< 

Eh 

CJ 

•4-* 

a 

■*-» 

to 

5 

- 

■4J 

1- 

o 

(U   c         ft 

>  °  s  s 

bfi 
»-. 
3 
-Q 

u 

"H.S 

•C  o    1  ^ 

o 

o 

11^ 

o3 

P^WJ^Ph 

THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  503 

I  Y"  =  25.60,  we  obtain  the  trunk  requirements: 

!  Rx  Method 23.8  trunks 

i?2  Method 24.8  trunks 

Thus  the  more  precise  method  of  sokition  here  yields  a  reduction  of  1 .0 
in  25  trunks,  a  saving  of  4  per  cent,  as  had  been  predicted. 

The  above  calculation  is  on  a  Lost  Calls  Cleared  basis.  Since  the  over- 
flow direct  traffic  calls  will  return  to  this  group  to  obtain  service,  to  as- 
sure their  receiving  no  more  than  3  per  cent  'NC,  the  provision  of  the 
final  route  would  theoretically  need  to  be  slightly  more  liberal.  An  esti- 
mate of  the  allowance  required  here  may  be  made  by  adding  the  ex- 
pected erlangs  loss  A  for  the  direct  traffic  (most  of  the  final  route  over- 
flow calls  which  come  from  high  usage  routes  will  be  carried  by  their 
respective  groups  on  the  next  retrial)  to  both  the  A"  and  Y"  values 
previously  obtained,  and  recalculating  the  trunks  required  from  that 
point  onward.  (In  fact  this  could  have  been  included  in  the  initial  com- 
putation.) Thus: 

A  =  0.03  X  10.14     =    0.30  erlang 
A'"  =  16.27  +    0.30  =  16.57  erlangs 
V"  =  25.60  +    0.30  =  25.90  erlangs 

Again  consulting  Figs.  43  and  47  gives  the  corresponding  final  trunk 
values 

Ri  Method 24.1  trunks 

R2  Method 25.1  trunks 

Of  the  above  four  figures  for  the  number  of  trunks  in  the  Scranton 
route,  the  i?i-Method  with  retrials,  i.e.,  24.1  trunks,  would  appear  to 
give  the  best  estimate  of  the  required  trunks  to  give  0.03  service  to  the 
poorest  service  parcel. 

Solution  (h) :  With  High  Usage  Group  Provided  for  First  Routed  Traffic 

Following  the  procedure  outlined  in  Section  8.2,  we  obtain  an  average 
of  the  proportions  overflowing  to  the  final  route  for  all  offered  load  par- 
cels. The  individual  parcel  overflow  proportion  estimates  are  shown  in 
the  last  column  of  Table  XVII;  their  unweighted  average  is  0.112.  With 
a  first  routed  offer  to  Scranton  of  10.14  erlangs,  a  provision  of  12  high 
usage  trunks  will  result  in  an  overflow  of  a  =  1.26  erlangs,  or  a  propor- 
tion, of  0.125  which  is  the  value  most  closely  attainable  to  the  objective 
0.112.  With  12  trunks  the  overflow  variance  is  found  to  be  2.80. 


504  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Replacing  10.14  in  columns  7  and  8  of  Table  XVII  with  1.26  and  2.80, 
respectively,  gives  new  estimates  characterizing  the  offer  to  the  final 
route.  A"  =  7.39  and  V"  —  18.26.  We  now  proceed  to  insure  that  the 
poorest  service  parcel  obtains  0.03  service.  This  occurs  on  the  Phila- 
delphia and  Harrisburg  groups,  which  overflow  to  the  final  group  ap- 
proximately 0.224  of  their  original  offered  loads.  The  final  group  must 
then,  according  to  equation  (34)  be  engineered  for 

R2  =  0.03/0.224  =  0.134  service. 

This  value  lies  above  the  highest  R2  engineering  chart  (Fig.  49,  R2  = 
0.10),  so  an  ER  calculation  is  indicated. 

The  Equivalent  Random  average  is  28.6  erlangs,  and  S  =  23.5 
trunks.  We  determine  the  total  trunks  S  -\-  R  which,  with  28.6  erlangs 
offered,  will  overflow  0.134(7.39)  =  0.99  erlang.  From  Fig.  12.2,  35.6 
trunks  are  required.  Then  the  final  route  provision  should  be  C  =  35.6  — 
23.5  =  12.1  trunks;  and  a  total  of  12  +  12.1  or  24.1  Scranton  trunks 
is  indicated. 

Simplified  Alternative  Solution:  In  Section  8.2  a  simplified  approxi- 
mate procedure  was  described  using  a  modified  probability  P'  for  the 
average  overall  service  for  all  parcels  of  traffic,  instead  of  P  for  the  poor- 
est service  parcel.  Suppose  P'  =  0.01  is  chosen  as  being  acceptable. 
Then 

P'       0  01 

«'  =  T  =  am  =  oo^" 

Interpolating  between  the  R2  =  0.05  and  0.10  curves  (Figs.  48  and  49) 
gives  with  A"  =  7.39  and  F"  =  18.26,  C  =  13.4,  the  number  of  final 
trunks  required.  Again  the  same  result  could  have  been  obtained  by 
making  the  suitable  ER  computation.  It  may  be  noted  that  if  P'  had 
been  chosen  as  0.015  (one-half  of  P),  R2  would  have  become  0.134, 
exactly  the  same  value  found  in  the  poorest-service-parcel  method.  The 
final  trunk  provision,  of  course,  would  have  again  l)een  12.1  trunks. 

Disscussion 

In  the  first  solution  above,  24.1  full  access  final  trunks  from  Blooms- 
burg  to  Scranton  were  refiuired.  The  service  on  the  first  routed  traffic 
was  0.03;  however,  the  service  enjoyed  by  the  offered  traffic  as  a  whole 
was  markedly  better  than  0.03.  The  corresponding  ER  calculation 
shows  (.4  =  28.3,  .S  -\-  C  =  12.3  +  24.1)  a  total  overflow  of  a"  =  0.72 
erlangs,  or  an  overall  service  of  0.72/91.21  =  0.008. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  505 

In  the  second  solution,  12  high  usage  and  12.1  common  final,  or  a  total 
of  24.1,  trunks  were  again  required,  to  give  0.03  service  to  the  poorest 
service  parcels  of  offered  load.  The  overall  service  here,  however,  was 
0.99/91.21  .=  0.011.  Thus,  with  the  same  number  of  paths  provided, 
in  the  second  solution  (high  usage  arrangement)  the  overall  call  loss  was 
40  pes  cent  larger  than  in  the  first  solution,*  However,  it  may  well  be 
desirable  to  accept  such  an  average  service  penalty  since  by  providing 
high  usage  trunks  for  the  first  routed  traffic,  the  latter's  service  cannot 
be  degraded  nearly  so  readily  should  heavy  overloads  occur  momentarily 
in  the  other  parcels  of  traffic. 

9.   CONCLUSION 

As  direct  distance  dialing  increases,  it  will  be  necessary  to  provide 
intertoll  paths  so  that  substantially  no-delay  service  is  given  at  all  times. 
To  do  this  economically,  automatic  multi-alternate  routing  will  replace 
the  present  single  route  operation.  Traffic  engineering  of  these  compli- 
cated trunking  arrangements  will  be  more  difficult  than  with  simple 
intertoll  groups. 

One  of  the  new  problems  is  to  describe  adequately  the  non-random 
character  of  overflow  traffic.  In  the  present  paper  this  is  proposed  to  be 
done  by  employing  both  mean  and  variance  values  to  describe  each  par- 
cel of  traffic,  instead  of  only  the  mean  as  used  heretofore.  Numerous 
comparisons  are  made  with  simulation  results  which  indicate  that  ade- 
quate predictive  reliability  is  obtained  by  this  method  for  most  traffic 
engineering  and  administrative  purposes.  Working  curves  are  provided 
by  which  trunking  arrangements  of  considerable  complexity  can  readily 
j  be  solved. 

A  second  problem  requiring  further  review  is  the  day-to-day  variation 
i  among  the  primary  loads  and  their  effect  on  the  alternate  route  system's 
I  grade  of  service.  A  thorough  study  of  these  variations  will  permit  a  re- 

I  evaluation  of  the  service  criteria  which  have  tentatively  been  adopted. 
j  A  closely  allied  problem  is  that  of  providing  the  necessary  kind  and 
[  amounts  of  traffic  measuring  devices  at  suitable  points  in  the  toll  alter- 
!  nate  route  systems.  Requisite  to  the  solution  of  both  of  these  problems 
!  is  an  understanding  of  traffic  flow  character  in  a  complex  overflow-type 

I  *  The  actual  loss  difference  may  be  slightly  greater  than  estimated  here  since 
i  in  the  first  solution  (complete  access  final  trunks),  an  allowance  was  included  for 

i  j  return  attempts  to  the  final  route  by  first  routed  calls  meeting  an  0.03  loss,  while 
1  in  the  second  solution   (high  usage  group  for  first  routed  traffic)  no  return  at- 

i|  tempts  to  the  final  route  were  considered.  These  would  presumably  be  small  since 

I I  only  1  per  cent  of  all  calls  would  overflow  and  most  of  these  upon  retrial  would  be 
ij  handled  on  their  respective  high  usage  groups. 


506  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

of  trunking  plan,  and  a  method  for  estimating  quantitatively  the  essential 
fluctuation  parameters  at  each  point  in  such  a  system.  The  present  paper 
has  undertaken  to  shed  some  light  on  the  former,  and  to  provide  an 
approximate  j^et  sufficiently  accurate  method  by  which  the  latter  can 
be  accomplished.  It  may  be  expected  then  that  these  studies,  as  they  are 
developed,  will  provide  the  basis  for  assuring  an  adequate  direct  dis- 
tance dialing  service  at  all  times  with  a  minimum  investment  in  intertoll 
trunk  facilities. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  author  wishes  to  acknowledge  the  technical  and  mathematical  as- 
sistance of  his  associates,  Mrs.  Sallie  P.  Mead,  P.  J.  Burke,  W.  J.  Hall, 
and  W.  S.  Hayward,  in  the  preparation  of  this  paper.  Dr.  Hall  provided 
the  material  on  the  convolution  of  negative  binomials  leading  to  Fig.  19. 
Mr.  Hayward  extended  Kosten's  curve  E  on  Fig.  5  to  higher  losses  by  a 
calculating  method  involving  the  progressive  squaring  of  a  probability 
matrix.  The  author's  thanks  are  also  due  J.  Riordan  who  has  summarized  | 
some  of  the  earlier  mathematical  work  of  H.  Nyquist  and  E.  C.  INIolina, 
as  well  as  his  own,  in  the  study  of  overflow  load  characteristics;  this 
appears  as  Appendix  I. 

The  extensive  calculations  and  chart  constructions  are  principally 
the  work  of  Miss  C.  A.  Lennon. 

REFERENCES 

1.  Rappleye,  S.  C,  A  Study  of  the  Delays  Encountered  bj'^  Toll  Operators  in  Ob- 

taining an  Idle  Trunk,  B. S.T.J. ,  25,  p.  539,  Oct.,  1946. 

2.  Kosten,  L.,  Over  de  Invloed  van  Herhaalde  Oproepen  in  de  Theorie  der  Blok- 

keringskausen,  De  Ingenieur,  59,  j).  1'j123,  Nov.  21,  1947. 

3.  Clos,  C,  An  Aspect  of  the  Dialing  Behavior  of  Subscribers  and  Its  Effect  on 

the  Trunk  Plant,  B. S.T.J. ,  27,  p.  424,  July,  1948. 

4.  Kosten,    L.,    Uber    Sperrungswahrscheinlichkeiten    bei    Staffelschaltungen, 

E.N.T.,  14,  p.  5,  Jan.,  1937. 

5.  Kosten,  L.,  Over  Blokkeerings-en  Wachti)rol>lemen,  Thesis,  Delft,  1942. 

6.  Molina,  E.  C,  Appendix  to:  Interconnection  of  Telephone  Systems  —  Graded 

Multiples  (R.  I.  Wilkinson),  B.S.T.J.,  10,  p.  531,  Oct.,  1931. 

7.  Vaulot,  A.  E.,  Application  du  Calcul  des  Probabilites  a  I'Exploitation  Tele- 

phonique.  Revue  Gen.  de  I'Electricite,  16,  p.  411,  Sept.  13,  1924. 

8.  Lundcpiist,  K.,  General  Theorv  for  Telephone  Traffic,  Ericsson  Technics,  9, 

p.  Ill,  1953. 

9.  Berkeley,  G.  S.,  Traffic  and  Trunking  Principles  in  Automatic  Telei)hony,  2nd 

revised  edition,  1949,  Ernest  Benn,  Ltd.,  London,  Chapter  V. 

10.  Pahu,  C.,  Calcul  I']xact  de  la  Perte  dans  les  Groupes  de  Circuits   Echelonn^s, 

lOricsson  Technics,  3,  ]).  41,  1936. 

11.  Brockmever,  1'].,  The  Simph>  Overflow  Problem  in  the  Theory  of  Telephone 

Traffic!  Teleteknik,  5,  ji.  361,  December,  1954. 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  507 


ABRIDGED   BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  ARTICLES   ON  TOLL  ALTERNATE  ROUTING 

Clark,  A.  B.,  and  Osborne,  H.  S.,  Automatic  Switching  for  Nationwide  Telephone 
Service,  A.I.E.E.,  Trans.,  71,  Part  I,  p.  245,  1952.  (Also  B.S.T.J.,  31,  p.  823, 
Sept.,  1952.) 

Pilliod,  J.  J.,  Fundamental  Plans  for  Toll  Telephone  Plant,  A.I.E.E.  Trans.,  71, 
Part  I,  p.  248,  1952.  (Also  B.S.T.J.,  31,  p.  832,  Sept.,  1952.) 

Nunn,  W.  H.,  Nationwide  Numbering  Plan,  A.I.E.E.  Trans.,  71,  Part  I,  p.  257, 
1952.  (Also  B.S.T.J.,  31,  p.  851,  Sept.,  1952.) 

Clark,  A.  B.,  The  Development  of  Telephony  in  the  United  States,  A.I.E.E. 
Trans.,  71,  Part  I,  p.  348,  1952. 

Shiplev,  F.  F.,  Automatic  Toll  Switching  Systems,  A.I.E.E.  Trans.,  71,  Part  I, 
p. '261,  1952.  (Also  B.S.T.J.,  31,  p.  860,  Sept.,  1952.) 

Myers,  O.,  The  4A  Crossbar  Toll  System  for  Nationwide  Dialing,  Bell  Lab. 
Record,  31,  p.  369,  Oct.,  1953. 

Clos,  C,  Automatic  Alternate  Routing  of  Telephone  Traffic,  Bell  Lab.  Record, 
32,  p.  51,  Feb.,  1954. 

Truitt,  C.  J.,  Traffic  Engineering  Techniques  for  Determining  Trunk  Require- 
ments in  Alternate  Routing  Trunk  Networks,  B.S.T.J.,  33,  p.  277,  March, 
1954. 

Molnar,  I.,  Some  Recent  Advances  in  the  Economy  of  Routing  Calls  in  Nation- 
wide Dialing,  A.E.  Tech.  Jl.,  4,  p.  1,  Dec,  1954. 

Jacobitti,  E.,  Automatic  Alternate  Routing  in  the  4A  Crossbar  System,  Bell  Lab. 
Record,  33,  p.  141,  April,  1955. 

Appendix  I* 

DERIVATION    OF   MOMENTS    OF   OVERFLOW   TRAFFIC 

This  appendix  gives  a  derivation  of  certain  factorial  moments  of  the 
c(iuilibrium  probabilities  of  congestion  in  a  di^dded  full-access  multiple 
used  as  a  basis  for  the  calculations  in  the  text.  These  moments  were  de- 
rived independently  in  unpublished  memoranda  (1941)  by  E.  C.  Molina 
(the  first  four)  and  by  H.  Nyquist;  curiously,  the  method  of  derivation 
here,  which  uses  factorial  moment  generating  functions,  employs  auxili- 
ary relations  from  both  Molina  and  Nyquist.  Although  these  factorial 
moments  may  be  obtained  at  a  glance  from  the  probability  expressions 
given  by  Kosten  in  1937,  if  it  is  remembered  that 

pw  =  |:(-i)'-'(';)^,  (1.1) 

where  p{x)  is  a  discrete  probability  and  M (k)  is  the  A;th  factorial  moment 
of  its  distribution,  Kosten  does  not  so  identify  the  moments  and  it  may 
1)0  interesting  to  have  a  direct  derivation. 

Starting  from  the  equilibrium  formulas  of  the  text  for  f(;ni,  n),  the 
l)robability  of  m  trunks  busy  in  the  specific  group  of  x  trunks,  and  n  in 


Prepared  by  J.  Riordan. 


508  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

the  (unlimited)  common  group,  namely 

{a  -{-  m  -\-  n)f(m,  n)  —  (w  +  l)f(m  +  1,  n) 

—  (n  +  l)/(m,  n  +  1)  —  af(in  —  1,  n)  =  0 

(1-2)  « 

(a  -{-  X  -{-  n)j{x,  n)  —  af{x,  n  —  1)  \ 

-  (n  -\-  l)f(x,  n  +  1)  -  af(x  -  1,  n)  =  0 

and 

/(m,  n)  =  0,        m  <  0        or        n  <  0        or        m  >  x, 

factorial  moment  generating  function  recurrences  may  be  found  and 
solved. 

With  m  fixed,  factorial  moments  of  n  are  defined  by 


M(fc)(m)  =  E  {n)kf{m,  n)  (1.3) 

n=0 

or  alternatively  by  the  factorial  moment  exponential  generating  function 
M{m,  0  =  Z  MUm)t'/k\  =   £  (1  +  07K  n)  (1.4)   ] 

fc=0  n=0  I 

In  (1.3),  {n)k  =  n{n  —  1)  •  •  •  (n  —  /c  +  1)  is  the  usual  notation  for  a  \ 
falling  factorial. 

Using  (1.4)  in  equations  (1.2),  and  for  brevity  D  =  d/dt,  it  is  found 
that 

a^  m  ^-  tD)M{in,  t)  -  (m  +  l)M{m  +  1,  t) 

-  aM(m  -  l,t)  =  0     (1.5) 

(x  -  at  -\-  tD)M{x,  t)  -  aM{x  -  \,t)  =  0 

which  correspond  (by  equating  powers  of  t)  to  the  factorial  moment  re- 
currences 

{a-\-  m^  k)M^kM)  -  (m  +  l)Ma)(w  +  1) 

-  ailf  (fc)(m  -  1)  =  0      (1.6) 

(x  +  k)M(k)(x)  -  akM^k-i)ix)  -  aMik)(x  -  1)  =  0 

Notice  that  the  first  of  (1.6)  is  a  recurrence  in  m,  which  suggests  (fol- 
lowing Molina)  introducing  a  new  generating  function  defined  by 

Gdu)  =  T.M^k){m)u'^  (1.7) 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.         509 

Using  this  in  (1.5),  it  is  found  that 

(a  -h  k  -  au  +  (u  -  l)~\  GM  =  0  (1.8) 


Hence 


1     dGM^^^J^  ^j_g^ 


Gk(u)      du  I  —  u 

and,  by  easy  integrations, 

Gk{u)  =  ce""  (1  -  ur\  (1.10) 

with  c  an  arbitrary  constant,  which  is  clearly  identical  with  Gk(0)   = 
M(.)(0). 

Expansion  of  the  right-hand  side  of  (1.10)  shows  that 

il/a,(m)  =  Ma)(0)  Z        "^  •^.  ,   ""      ■„  =  Ma,(0)a-.(m),     (1.11) 

j=o  \        J         /  {m  -  j)l 


if 
<jo{m)  =  a'/ml        and,     a,(w)  =  ^  (  •^-  ~      )  y-^ ^ri     (1-12) 


The  notation  ak(m)  is  copied  from  Xyquist;  the  functions  are  closely 
related  to  the  ^^^"^  used  by  Kosten;  indeed  akim)  =  e'ipm'''' ■  They  have 
the  generating  function 

00 

Qkiu)  =  53  (TkMu"  =  e""(l  —  u)~''  (1.13) 

from  which  a  number  of  recurrences  are  found  readily.  Thus 
Qkiu)  =  (1  -  u)gk+Xu) 

u  -^ —  =  augkiu)  +  kugk+i(u) 
du 

=  -agk-iiu)  +  (a  -  k)gk(u)  +  kgk-i(u) 

(the  last  by  use  of  the  first)  imply 

ckim)  =  ak+iim)  —  (Tk+iim  —  1) 

m(Tk(m)  =  ackim  —  1)  +  k<jk+i(m  —  1) 

=  -  a<jk-i{m)  +  (a  -  k)<Tk{m)  +  k<Xk+i(ni) 


510  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

The  first  of  these  leads  to 

cr/^(0)  +  (7,(1)  +    •  •  •   +  cr,(x)   =  ak+i(x)  (1.14)     J 
and  the  last  is  useful  in  the  form  j 

kak+i{m)  =  {m  +  k  -  a)ak{m)  +  0(rt_i(m)  (1.15)     ■- 

Also,  the  first  along  with  ao(m)  =  a" /m\  leads  to  a  simple  calculation    ; 
procedure,  as  Kosten  has  noticed. 

By  (1.11)  the  factorial  moments  are  now  completely  determined  ex- 
cept for  il/(A-)(0).  To  determine  the  latter,  the  second  of  (1.6)  and  the 
normalizing  equation 

X 

E  M,{m)  =  1  (1.16) 

are  available. 

Thus  from  the  second  of  (1 .6) 

[(:r  +  k)<r,{x)  -  mu{x  -  l)].^/(A-)(0)  =  a/v(r,_i(.c)M(,_i)(0)        (1.17) 

Also 

{x  +  k)ak{x)  —  acTkix  —  1) 

=  (x  -\-  k  -  a)ak(x)  +  a[(Xk{x)  -  (Tk(.x  —  1)] 

=  (x  -\-  k  -  a)(Tk{x)  +  a<Tk-i{x) 

=  /t'o-fc+i^r), 

the  last  step  by  (1.15).  Hence 

(Tk-l{x) 


MaM  =  a  "-^=^  Ma-iM  (1.18) 

<rk+i{x) 


and  by  iteration 


^k    (7i(x)(roix) 


MaAO)  =  a'   "^7" "7,  Mo(0)  (1.19) 

From  (l.ll)  and  (1.16),  and  in  the  last  step  (1.14), 

t.M,(m)  =   i:  il/o(0)cro(7n)  =  ilfo(0)cri(a;)  =  1  (1.20) 

Hence  finally 

Ma)(m)  =  Ma-M<rk{ni) 

,  a,(x)ak(m)  (1.21) 


=  a 


(Tki.i{.r)<^k{x) 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  511 

^""^  Ma)  =   Z  Ma,{m)  =  a'ao{x)/a,(x)  (1.22) 


m=0 


Ordinary  moments  are  found  from  the  factorial  moments  by  linear 
relations;  thus  if  Wt  is  the  A;th  ordinary  moment  (about  the  origin) 

mo  =  M^o)        nil  =  M^)         m-i  =  il/(2)  +  il/(i) 

mz  =  il/(3)  +  3Af  (2)  +  il/(i) 

Thus 

mo(m)  =  (ro(m)/ai(x) 

mi(m)  =  aai(m)(To(x)  /  (Ti(x)(T2(x) 

vi-iim)  =  aa2{m)(TQ{x)  /  (r'2{x)(7z{x)  +  a(Ji{;m)<Ta{x)  /  <ti{x)(T2{x) 

and,  in  particular,  using  notation  of  the  text 

mo{x)  =  (ro{x)/ax{x)  =  Ei,xia) 

mi(x)  (Tiix)  a 

(Xx  =  — ^r  =  a 


mo{x)  <T.(x)       .T  -  a  +  1  +  aEi,,{a)  (1.23) 

ni2{x)  2       aaiix)    ,  2 

Vx   =    — 7-r  —   (Xx     =   ir-^   +  OCx   —   ax  ,  ^ 

mo{x)  csix)  (1,24) 

=  ax[l  —  ax  +  2a(x  +  2  -\-  ax  -  a)~^] 

X 

Finally  the  sum  moments:  nik  =  ^  mk{m)  are 

0 


Wo  =  1 

mi  =  a  =  a(To{x)/(yi{x)  =  aEi_x{a) 
rrh  =  aaQ{x)/a2{x)  -\-  mi  =  mi[a{x  -\-  I  -\-  nii  —  a)~   +1] 


(1.25) 


(1.26) 


y  =  m2  —  mi    =  mi[l  —  vh  +  a(.^'  +  1  +  nii  —  a)    ] 
In  these,  Ei,x(a)  =  (ro(:c)/(ri(.T)  is  the  familiar  Erlang  loss  function. 

Appendix  II  —  character  of  overflow  load  when  non-random 

TRAFFIC  IS  offered  TO   A    GROUP    OF   TRUNKS 

It  has  long  been  recognized  that  it  would  be  useful  to  have  a  method 
by  which  the  character  of  the  overflow  traffic  could  be  determined  when 
non-random  traffic  is  offered  to  a  group  of  trunks.  Excellent  agreement 
has  been  found  in  both  throwdown  and  field  observation  over  ranges  of 
considerable  interest  with  the  "equivalent  random"  method  of  describ- 


to 

z 
< 

LJJ 


in 

z 

D 

h- 

X 


o 

en 

Q 

< 

o 


3 

LL 

cr 

LU 

> 

o 

LL 

o 

LLI 

< 

LJJ 

II 


0.04f/  AQ-- 
0.02 


TRUN 


10  .1   0:3 

TRUNKS 


.1    0.3     1.0     3 

a,=  AVERAGE 
IN 


10    .1    0.3 


TRUN 


10    .1    0.3     1.0     3 

OF  OFFERED  TRAFFIC 
ERLANGS 


Fig.  51  —  Mean  and  variance  of  overHovv  load  when  non-random  traffic  is 
offered  to  a  group  of  trunks. 

512 


THEORIES  FOR  TOLL  TRAFFIC  ENGINEERING  IN  THE  U.  S.  A.  513 

ing  the  character  of  non-random  traffic.  An  approximate  solution  of  the 
problem  is  offered  based  on  this  method. 

Suppose  a  random  traffic  a  is  offered  to  a  straight  multiple  which  is 
divided  into  a  lower  Xi  portion  and  an  upper  X2  portion,  as  follows: 

T  «2  ,  V2 


X2. 


]  OCl,Vi 


u 

From  Nyquist's  and  Molina's  work  we  know  the  mean  and  variance 


of  the  two  overflows  to  be: 


ai  =  a-Ei^xiia)  =  a 


a"» 


•ril 


Vi  =  ai\  1  —  ai  -\ ■ — - 

L  Xi  —  a  +  ai  +  IJ 

a2  =  a-Ei,xi+x2(0') 

V2  =  aol  I  —  a2  -\ j j : — r 

L  xi  +  a;2  -  a  +  0:2  4-  IJ 

Since  ai  and  vi  completely  determine  a  and  Xi ,  and  these  in  turn,  with 
X2 ,  determine  02  and  Vo ,  we  may  express  02  and  V2  in  terms  of  only  ai , 
Vi ,  and  X2  .  The  overflow  characteristics  (0:2  and  V2),  are  then  given  for  a 
non-random  load  (ai  and  Vi)  offered  to  x  trunks  as  was  desired. 

Fig.  51  of  this  Appendix  has  been  constructed  by  the  Equivalent  Ran- 
dom method.  The  charts  show  the  expected  values  of  0:2  and  I'o  when 
ai ,  Vi  (or  vi/ai),  and  X2 ,  are  given.  The  range  of  ai  is  only  0  to  5  er- 
langs,  and  v/a  is  given  only  from  the  Poisson  unity  relation  to  a  peaked- 
ness  value  of  2.5.  Extended  and  more  definitive  curves  or  tables  could 
readily,  of  course,  be  constructed. 

The  use  of  the  curves  can  perhaps  best  be  illustrated  by  the  solution 
of  a  familiar  example. 

Example:  A  load  of  4.5  erlangs  is  submitted  to  10  trunks;  on  the  "lost 
calls  cleared"  basis;  what  is  the  average  load  passing  to  overflow? 

Solution:  Compute  the  load  characteristics  from  the  first  trunk  when 
4.5  erlangs  of  random  traffic  are  submitted  to  it.  These  values  are  found 
to  be  a\  =  3.G8,  vi  =  4.15.  Now  using  ai  and  vi  (or  vi/ai  =  4.15/3.68  = 
1.13)  as  the  offered  load  to  the  second  trunk,  read  on  the  chart  the  param- 
eters of  the  overflow  from  the  second  trunk,  and  so  on.  The  successive 
overflow  values  are  given  in  Table  XVIII. 


514 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


The  proportion  of  load  overflowing  the  group  is  then  0.0472/4.50  = 
0.0105,  which  agrees,  of  course,  with  the  Erlang  £^i,io(4.5)  value.  The 
successive  overflow  values  are  shown  on  the  chart  by  the  row  of  dots 
along  the  a2  and  V2  1-trunk  curves. 

Instead  of  considering  successive  single-trunk  overflows  as  in  the  ex- 
ample above,  other  numbers  of  trunks  may  be  chosen  and  their  over- 
flows determined.  For  example  suppose  the  10  trunks  are  subdivided 
into  2  +  3  +  2-1-3  trunks.  The  loads  overflowing  these  groups  are 
given  in  Table  XIX. 

Again  the  overflow  is  0.0472  erlang,  or  a  proportion  lost  of  0.0105, 
which  is,  as  it  should  be,  the  same  as  found  in  the  previous  example. 
The  values  read  in  this  example  are  indicated  by  the  row  of  dots  marked 
1,  3,  6,  8  on  the  2-trunk  and  3-trunk  curves. 

The  above  procedure  and  curves  should  be  of  use  in  obtaining  an  esti- 
mate of  the  character  of  the  overflow  traffic  when  a  non-random  load 
is  offered  to  a  group  of  paths. 


I 


Table  XVIII  —  Successive  Non-Random  Overflows 

Characteristics  of  Load  Offered  to  Trunk  No.  i 

(same  as  overflow  from  previous  trunk) 

Trunk  Number 

i 

Average 

Variance 

Ratio  of  variance  to 
average 

1 

4.50 

4.50 

1.00  (Random) 

2 

3.68 

4.15 

1.13 

3 

2.92 

3.68 

1.26 

4 

2.22 

3.11 

1.40 

5 

1.61 

2.46 

1.53 

6 

1.09 

1.80 

1.64 

7 

0.694 

1.19 

1.72 

8 

0.406 

0.709 

1.75 

9 

0.217 

0.377 

1.74 

10 

0.106 

0.180 

1.70 

Overflow 

0.0472 

0.077 

1.64 

Table  XIX  —  Sucessive  Non-Random  Overflows 


Trunlc  Number 

No.  Trunks  in 
Next  Bundle 

Offered  Load  Cliaracteristics 
(same  as  overflow  from  previous  trunk) 

i 

Average 

Variance 

Ratio  of  variance  to 
average 

1 

3 
6 

8 
Overflow 

2 
3 
2 
3 

4.50 

2.92 

1.09 

0.406 

0.0472 

4.50 

3.68 

1.80 

0.709 

0.077 

1.00  (Random) 

1.26 

1.64 

1.75 

1.64 

Crosstalk  on  Open-Wire  Lines 

By  W.  C.  BABCOCK,  ESTHER  RENTROP,  and  C.  S.  THAELER 

(Manuscript  received  September  29,  1955) 

Crosstalk  on  open-wire  lines  results  from  cross-induction  between  the 
circuits  due  to  the  electric  and  magnetic  fields  surrounding  the  wires. 
The  limitation  of  crosstalk  couplings  to  tolerable  magnitudes  is  achieved 
by  systematically  turning  over  or  transposing  the  conductors  that 
comprise  the  circuits.  The  fundamental  theory  underlying  the  engineer- 
ing of  such  transposition  arrangements  was  presented  by  A.  G.  Chapman 
in  a  paper  entitled  Open-Wire  Crosstalk  published  in  the  Bell  System 
Technical  Journal  in  January  and  April,  1934. 

There  is  now  available  a  Monograph  (No.  2520)  supplementing  Mr. 
Chapman's  paper  which  reflects  a  considerable  amount  of  experience  re- 
sulting from  the  application  of  these  techniques  and  provides  a  basis  for 
the  engineering  of  open-wire  plant.  The  scope  of  the  material  is  indi- 
cated by  the  following: 

TRANSPOSITION   PATTERNS 

This  describes  the  basic  transposition  types  which  define  the  number 
and  locations  of  transpositions  applied  to  the  individual  open-wire 
circuits. 

TYPES    OF   CROSSTALK    COUPLING 

Crosstalk  occurs  both  within  incremental  segments  of  line  and  be- 
tween such  segments.  Furthermore,  the  coupling  may  result  from  cross- 
induction  directly  from  a  disturbing  to  a  disturbed  circuit  or  indirectly 
by  way  of  an  intervening  tertiary  circuit.  On  the  disturbed  circuit  the 
crosstalk  is  propagated  both  toward  the  source  of  the  original  signal 
and  toward  the  distant  terminal.  A  knowledge  of  the  relative  importance 
of  the  various  types  of  coupling  is  valuable  in  establishing  certain  time- 
saving  approximations  which  facilitate  the  analysis  of  the  total  cross- 
talk picture. 

515 


516  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MARCH    1956 

TYPE   UNBALANCE   CROSSTALK 

Crosstalk  is  measured  in  terms  of  a  current  ratio  between  the  disturb- 
ing and  disturbed  circuits  at  the  point  of  observation.  Crosstalk  between 
open-wire  circuits  is  also  generally  computed  in  terms  of  a  current  ratio 
(cu)  but  it  is  also  convenient  to  refer  to  it  in  terms  of  a  coupling  loss 
(db).  The  coupling  in  crosstalk  units  (cu)  is  the  product  of  three  terms: 
a  coefficient  dependent  on  wire  configuration;  a  type  unbalance  depend- 
ent on  transposition  patterns;  and  frequency.  The  coefficient  represents 
the  coupling  between  relatively  untransposed  circuits  of  a  specified 
length  (1  mile)  at  a  specific  frequency  (1  kc).  The  type  unbalance  is  a 
measure  of  the  inability  to  completely  cancel  out  crosstalk  by  intro- 
ducing transpositions  because  of  interaction  effects  between  the  two 
halves  of  the  exposure  and  because  of  propagation  effects,  primarily 
phase  shift.  Type  unbalance  is  expressed  in  terms  of  a  residual  unbalance 
in  miles  and  the  frequency  is  expressed  in  kilocycles. 

The  coefficients  applicable  to  lines  built  in  accordance  with  certain 
standardized  specifications  are  available  in  tabular  form.  When  it  is 
desired  to  obtain  coefficients  for  other  types  of  line,  it  is  possible  to 
compute  approximate  values  which  may  be  modified  by  correction 
factors  to  indicate  the  relationship  between  the  computed  values  and 
measurements  on  carefully  constructed  lines. 

Expressions  for  near-end  type  unbalance  for  certain  simple  types  of 
exposures  are  developed  and  the  formulas  for  all  types  of  exposures  are 
given.  In  addition,  the  values  for  near-end  type  unbalance  are  tabulated 
at  30°  line  angle  intervals  for  lines  where  the  propagation  angle  is  iu 
2,880°  or  less. 

The  principal  component  of  far-end  crosstalk  between  well  transposed 
circuits  results  from  compound  couplings  involving  tertiary  circuits. 
Again  the  expressions  are  developed  for  some  of  the  exposures  involving 
a  few  transpositions  and  the  procedure  for  obtaining  the  formulas  for 
any  type  of  exposure  is  shown.  Formulas  are  included  for  the  types  of 
exposures  encountered  in  normal  practice  and  the  numerical  values  of 
far-end  type  unbalance  are  given  at  30°  intervals  for  line  angles  up  to 
2,880°. 

SUMMATION   OF   CROSSTALK 

The  procedures  referred  to  thus  far  evaluate  the  crosstalk  occurring 
within  a  limited  length  of  line  known  as  a  transposition  section.  In 
practice,  however,  a  line  is  transposed  as  a  series  of  sections.  It  is  neces- 
sary, therefore,  to  determine  how  the  crosstalk  arising  within  the  several 


CROSSTALK    ON   OPEN- WIRE   LINES  517 

sections  and  that  arising  from  interactions  between  the  sections  tend  to 
combine.  In  a  series  of  like  transposition  sections  there  is  a  tendency 
for  the  crosstalk  to  increase  systematically,  sometimes  reaching  in- 
tolerable magnitudes.  This  tendency  can  be  controlled  to  a  degree  by 
introducing  transpositions  at  the  junctions  between  the  sections,  thus 
cancelling  out  some  of  the  major  components  of  the  crosstalk.  Complete 
cancellation  is  impossible  because  of  interaction  and  propagation  effects. 

ABSORPTION 

Since  very  significant  couplings  exist  by  way  of  tertiary  circuits,  it  is 
possible  for  crosstalk  to  reappear  on  the  disturbing  circuit  and  thus 
strengthen  or  attenuate  the  original  signal.  This  gives  rise  to  the  ap- 
pearance of  high  attenuation  known  as  absorption  peaks  in  the  line 
loss  characteristic  at  certain  critical  frequencies.  The  evaluation  of  such 
pair-to-self  coupling  requires  the  use  of  coefficients  which  differ  from 
those  between  different  pairs  and  these  are  given  for  standard  configura- 
tions. 

STRUCTURAL   IRREGULARITIES 

It  is  impracticable  to  maintain  absolute  uniformity  in  the  spacing 
between  wires  and  in  the  spacing  of  transpositions.  Thus  there  are  un- 
avoidable variations  in  the  couplings  between  pairs  from  one  transposi- 
tion interval  to  the  next.  This  in  turn  reduces  the  effectiveness  of  the 
measures  to  control  the  systematic  or  type  unbalance  crosstalk  and 
produces  what  is  known  as  irregularity  crosstalk.  Since  the  occurrence 
of  structural  irregularities  tends  to  follow  a  random  distribution,  it  is 
possible  to  evaluate  it  statistically  and  procedures  for  doing  so  are  in- 
cluded. In  addition  to  this  direct  effect  of  structural  irregularities,  there 
is  a  component  of  crosstalk  resulting  from  the  combination  of  systematic 
and  random  unbalances.  A  method  is  developed  for  estimating  the 
magnitude  of  this  important  component  of  crosstalk. 

EXAMPLES 

In  order  to  demonstrate  how  the  procedures  and  data  are  used  in 
solving  practical  problems,  there  is  included  the  development  of  a 
transposition  system  to  satisfy  certain  assumed  conditions.  This  is 
carried  through  to  the  selection  of  transposition  types  for  one  transposi- 
tion section  and  the  selection  of  suitable  junction  transpositions. 

Additional  examples  of  transposition  engineering  are  given  in  the  form 


518  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

of  several  transposition  systems  which  have  been  widely  used  in  the  Bell 
System.  These  include: 

Exposed  Line  —  for  voice  frequency  service. 

CI  —  for  voice  frequency  and  carrier  service  up  to  30  kc. 

J5  —  for  voice  frequency  and  carrier  operation  up  to  143  kc. 

01  ■ —  for  voice  frequency  and  compandored  carrier  operation  up  to 
156  kc. 

RIC  —  suitable  for  exchange  lines  with  a  limited  number  of  carrier 
assignments. 

Altogether,  the  theory,  explanatory  material,  formulas  and  compre- 
hensive data  included  in  the  Monograph  make  it  possible  to  estimate 
open-wire  crosstalk  couplings  and  provide  the  necessary  background  for 
the  development  of  new  transposition  systems. 


P 


I 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not 
Published  in  This  Journal 

Alsberg,  D.  A.^ 

6-KMC  Sweep  Oscillator,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  PGI-4,  pp.  32-39,  Oct.,  1955. 

Anderson,  J.  R.,i  Brady,  G.  W.,^  Merz,  W.  J.,^  and  Remeika,  J.  P.^ 

Effects  of  Ambient  Atmosphere  on  the  Stability  of  Barium  Titanate, 
J.  Appl.  Phys.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  26,  pp.  1387-1388,  Nov.,  1955. 

Anderson,  0.  L.,^  and  Andreatch,  P.^ 

stress  Relaxation  in  Gold  Wire,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1518-1519, 
Dec,  1955. 

Anderson,  P.  W.,^  and  Hasegawa,  H.^ 

Considerations  on  Double  Exchange,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  675-681, 
Oct.  15,  1955. 

Anderson,  P.  W.^ 

Electromagnetic  Theory  of  Cyclotron  Resonance  in  Metals,  Phys. 
Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  100,  pp.  749-750,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

Andreatch,  P.,  see  Anderson,  0.  L. 

Augustine,  C.  F.,  see  Slocum,  A. 

Barstow,  J.  M.* 

The  ABC's  of  Color  Television,  Proc.  I.R.E.,    43,  pp.   1574-1579, 
Nov.,  1955. 

Bartlett,  C.  A.2 

Closed-Circuit  Television  in  the  Bell  System,  Elec.  Engg.,  75,  pp. 
34-37,  Jan.,  1956. 


1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

2.  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company. 
5.  University  of  Tokyo,  Japan. 

519 


520  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Becker,  J.  A.^ 

Adsorption  on  Metal  Surfaces  and  Its  Bearing  on  Catalysis,  Advances 
in  Catalysis,  1955,  Nov.,  1955. 

Bommel,  H.  E.i 

Ultrasonic  Attenuation  in  Superconducting  and  Normal-Conducting 
Tin  at  Low  Temperatures,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  100,  pp. 
758-759,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

Bemski,  G.^ 

Lifetime  of  Electrons  in  p-Type  Silicon,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  523-524, 
Oct.  15,  1955. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Steady  State  Transmission  Through  Networks  Containing  Periodi- 
cally Operated  Switches,  Trans.  I.R.E.,  PGC.T.,  2,  pp.  17-21,  Mar., 
1955. 

Bommel,  H.  E.,i  Mason,  W.  P.,*  and  Warner,  A.  W.,  Jr.' 

Experimental  Evidence  for  Dislocation  in  Crystalline  Quartz,  Phys. 
Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  99,  pp.  1895-1896,  Sept.  15,  1955. 

Bradley,  W.  W.,  see  Compton,  K.  G. 

Brattain,  W.  H.,  see  Buck,  T.  M.,  and  Pearson,  G.  L. 

Brady,  G.  W.,  see  Anderson,  J.  R. 

Brown,  W.  L.' 

Surface  Potential  and  Surface  Charge  Distribution  from  Semicon- 
ductor Field  Effect  Measurements,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  590-591, 
Oct.  15,  1955. 

Buck,  T.  M.,'  and  Brattain,  W.  H.' 

Investigations  of  Surface  Recombination  Velocities  on  Germanium  by 
the  Photoelectric  Magnetic  Method,  J.  Electrochem.  Soc,  102,  pp. 
636-640,  Nov.,  1955. 

Cetlin,  B.  B.,  see  Gait,  J.  K. 

Charnes,  a.,  see  Jacobson,  M.  J. 
1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


I 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS 


521 


CoMPTON,  K.  G.,^  Mendizza,  a./  and  Bradley,  W.  W.' 

Atmospheric  Galvanic  Couple  Corrosion,  Corrosion,  11,  pp.  35-44, 
Sept.,  1955. 

CoRENzwiT,  E.,  see  Matthias,  B.  T. 
Dail,  H.  W.,  Jr.,  see  Gait,  J.  K. 

Dillon,  J.  F.,  Jr.,^  Geschwind,  S.,^  and  Jaccarino,  V.^ 

Ferromagnetic  Resonance  in  Single  Crystals  of  Manganese  Ferrite, 
Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  100,  pp.  750-752,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

Dodge,  H.  F.^ 

Chain  Sampling  Inspection  Plan,  Ind.  Quality  Control,  11,  pp.  10-13, 
Jan.,  1955. 

Dodge,  H.  F.^ 
Skip-lot  Sampling  Plan,  Ind.  Quality  Control,  11,  pp.  3-5,  Feb.,  1955. 

Fagen,  R.  E.,^  and  Riordan,  J.^ 

Queueing  Systems  for  Single  and  Multiple  Operation,  J.  S.  Ind.  Appl. 
Math.,  3,  pp.  73-79,  June,  1955. 

Fine,  M.  E.^ 

Erratum:  Elastic  Constants  of  Germanium  Between  1.7°  and  80°K 
J.  Appl.  Phys.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  26,  p.  1389,  Nov.,  1955. 

1   Flaschen,  S.  S.^ 

A  Barium  Titanate  Synthesis  from  Titanium  Esters,  J.  Am.  Chem. 
Soc,  77,  p.  6194,  Dec,  1955. 

Fletcher,  R.  C.,^  Yager,  W.  A.,*  and  Merritt,  F.  R.^ 

Observation  of  Quantum  Effects  in  Cyclotron  Resonance,  Phys.  Rev., 
Letter  to  the  Editor,  100,  pp.  747-748,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

Franke,  H.  C.i 

Noise  Measurement  on  Telephone  Circuits,  Tele-Tech.,  14,  pp.  85-97, 
Mar.,  1955. 


1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


522  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 


Galt,  J.  K.,1  Yager,  W.  A./  Merritt,  F.  R./  Cetlin,  B.  B.,»  and 
Bail,  H.  W.,  .Tr.^ 

Cyclotron  Resonance  in  Metals:  Bismuth,  Phys.    Rev.,  Letter  to  the 
Editor,  100,  pp.  748-749,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

Geller,  S.,^  and  Thurmond,  C.  D.' 

On  the  Question  of  a  Crystalline  SiO,  Am.  Chem.  Soc.  J.,  77,  pp. 
5285-5287,  Oct.  20,  1955. 

Geschwind,  S.,  see  Dillon,  J.  F. 

Harker,  K.  J.^ 

Periodic  Focusing  of  Beams  from  Partially  Shielded  Cathodes,  I.R.E. 
Trans.,  ED-2,  pp.  13-19,  Oct.,  1955. 

Hasegawa,  H.,  see  Anderson,  P.  W. 

Haynes,  J.  R.,^  and  Hornbeck,  J.  A.^ 

Trapping  of  Minority  Carriers  in  Silicon  II:  n-type  Silicon,  Phys. 
Rev.,  100,  pp.  606-615,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

Hornbeck,  J.  A.,  see  Haynes,  J.  R. 

Israel,  J.  0.,^  Mechline,  E.  B.,^  and  Merrill,  F.  F.^ 

A  Portable  Frequency  Standard  for  Navigation,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  PGI-4, 
pp.  116-127,  Oct.,  1955. 

Jaccarino,  v.,  see  Dillon,  J.  F. 

Jacobson,  M.  J.,'  Charnes,  A.,  and  Saibel,  E.^ 

The  Complete  Journal  Bearing  With  Circumferential  Oil  Inlet,  Trans. 
A.S.M.E.,  77,  pp.  1179-1183,  Nov.,  1955. 

James,  D.  B.,  see  Neilson,  G.  C. 

KoHN,  W.,^  and  Scheciiter,  D.^ 

Theory  of  Acceptor  Levels  in  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the 
Editor,  99,  pp.  1903-1904,  Sept.  15,  1955. 


1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 
4.  Carnegie  Institute. 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  523 

Law,  J.  T.,1  and  Meigs,  P.  S.^ 

The  Effect  of  Water  Vapor  on  Grown  Germanium  and  Silicon  n-p 
Junction  Units,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1265-1273,  Oct.,  1955. 

Leavis,  H.  W.i 

Search  for  the  Hall  Effect  in  a  Superconductor:  II  —  Theory,  Phys. 
Rev.,  100,  pp.  641-645,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

LiNViLL,  J.  G.,^  and  Mattson,  R.  H.^ 

Junction  Transistor  Blocking  Oscillators,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  1632- 
1639,  Nov.,  1955. 

Logan,  R.  A.^ 

Precipitation  of  Copper  in  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  615-617, 
Oct.  15,  1955. 

Logan,  R.  A.,^  and  Schwartz,  M.^ 

Restoration  of  Resistivity  and  Lifetime  in  Heat  Treated  Germanium, 
J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1287-1289,  Nov.,  1955. 

McCall,  D.  W.,  see  Shulman,  R.  G. 

Mason,  W.  P.,  see  Bommel,  H,  E. 

Matthias,  B.  T.,^  and  Corenzwit,  E.^ 

Superconductivity  of  Zirconium  Alloys,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  626-627, 
Oct.  15,  1955. 

Mattson,  R.  H.,  see  Linvill,  J.  G. 

Mays,  J.  M.,  see  Shulman,  R.  G. 

Mechline,  E.  B.,  see  Israel,  J.  0. 

Meigs,  P.  S.,  see  Law,  J.  T. 

Mendizza,  a.,  see  Compton,  K.  G. 

Merrill,  F.  F.,  see  Israel,  J.  0. 

'  Merritt,  F.  R.,  see  Fletcher,  R.  C.,  and  Gait,  J.  K. 

Merz,  W.  J.,  see  Anderson,  J.  R. 
1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


524  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Moll,  J.  L.^ 

Junction  Transistor  Electronics,  Proc.  I.R.E.,    43,  pp.   1807-1818, 
Dec,  1955.  J 

MuMFORD,  W.  W.,^  and  Schafersman^,  R.  L.^  ^ 

Data  on  Temperature  Dependence  of  X-Band  Fluorescent  Lamp  Noise 
Sources,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  PGI-4,  pp.  40-46,  Oct.,  1955. 

Neilson,  G.  C.,^  and  James,  D.  B.^ 

Time  of  Flight  Spectrometer  for  Fast  Neutrons,  Rev.  Sci.  Instr.,  26, 
pp.  1018-1023,  Nov.,  1955. 

Nesbitt,  E.  A.,^  and  Williams,  H.  J.^ 

New  Facts  Concerning  the  Permanent  Magnet  Alloy,  Alnico  5,  Conf . 
on  Magnetism  and  Magnetic  Materials,  T-78,  pp.  205-209,  Oct.,  1955. 

Nesbitt,  E.  A.,^  and  Williams,  H.  J.^ 

Shape  and  Crystal  Anisotropy  of  Alnico  5,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp. 
1217-1221,  Oct.,  1955. 

OWNES,  C.  D.i 

Stability  of  Molybdenum  Permalloy  Powder  Cores,  Conf.  on  Mag-    J 
netism  and  Magnetic  Materials,  T-78,  pp.  334-339,  Oct.,  1955. 

Pearson,  G.  L.,^  and  Brattain,  W.  H.^ 

History  of  Semiconductor  Research,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  1794-1806, 
Dec,  1955. 

Pederson,  L.^ 

Aluminum  Die   Castings  in   Carrier  Telephone   Systems,  Modern 
Metals,  11,  pp.  65,  68,  70,  Sept.,  1955. 

Prince,  M.  B.^ 

High-Freauency   Silicon  Aluminum  Alloy   Junction   Diode,   Trans. 
I.R.E.,  ED-2,  pp.  8-9,  Oct.,  1955. 

Remeika,  J.  P.,  see  Anderson,  J.  R. 

RiORDAN,  J.,  see  Fagen,  R.  E. 

1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

6.  University  of  British  Columbia,  Vancouver,  Canada. 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  525 

Saibel,  E.,  see  Jacobson,  M.  J. 
ScHAFERSMAN,  R.  L.,  See  Mumford,  W.  W. 
Schechter,  D.,  see  Kohn,  W. 

Schelkunoff,  S.  A.^ 

On  Representation  of  Electromagnetic  Fields  in  Cavities  in  Terms  of 
Natural  Modes  of  Oscillation,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1231-1234,  Oct., 
1955. 

Schwartz,  M.,  see  Logan,  R.  A. 

Shulman,  R.  G.,1  Mays,  J.  M.,i  and  McCall,  D.  W.^ 

Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  in  Semiconductors:  I — ^  Exchange 
Broadening  in  InSb  and  GaSb,  Phys,  Rev.,  100,  pp.  692-699,  Oct. 
15,  1955. 

Slocum,  A.,^  and  Augustine,  C.  F.^ 

6-KMC  Phase  Measurement  System  For  Traveling  Wave  Tube, 
Trans.  I.R.E.,  PGI-4,  pp.  145-149,  Oct.,  1955. 

Thurmond,  C.  D.,  see  Geller,  S. 

Uhlir,  a.,  Jr.^ 

Micromachining  with  Virtual  Electrodes,  Rev.  Sci.  Instr.,  26,  pp. 
965-968,  Oct.,  1955. 

Ulrich,  W.,  see  Yokelson,  B,  J, 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G.^ 

DC  Resistivity  in  the  Nickel  and  Nickel  Zinc  Ferrite  System,  J.  Chem. 
Phys.,  23,  pp.  1883-1887,  Oct.,  1955. 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G.^ 

Low  Magnetic  Saturation  Ferrites  for  Microwave  Applications,  J. 
Appl.  Phys.,  26,  pp.  1289-1290,  Nov.,  1955. 

Wannier,  G.  H.^ 

Possibility  of  a  Zener  Effect,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  100, 
p.  1227,  Nov.,  15,  1955. 


1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


526  the  bell  system  technical  journal,  march  1956 

Wannier,  G.  H.^ 

Threshold  Law  for  Multiple  Ionization,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  1180, 
Nov.  15,  1955. 

Warner,  A.  W.,  Jr.,  see  Bommel,  H.  E. 

Williams,  H.  J.,  see  Nesbitt,  E.  A.  i 

Yager,  W.  A.,  see  Fletcher,  R.  C,  and  Gait,  J.  K. 

YoKELSON,  B.  J.,^  and  Ulrich,  W.^ 

Engineering  Multistage  Diode  Logic  Circuits,  Elec.  Engg.,  74,  p.  1079, 
Dec,  1955. 


1.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


Recent  Monographs  of  Bell  System  Technical 
I      Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal* 

Allison,  H.  W.,  see  Moore,  G.  E. 
Baker,  W.  0.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

Basseches,  H.,  and  McLean,  D.  A. 

Gassing  of  Liquid  Dielectrics  Under  Electrical  Stress,  Monograph 
2448. 

BozoRTH,  R.  M.,  TiLDEN,  E.  F.,  and  Willlams,  A.  J. 
Anistropy  and  Magnetostriction  of  Some  Ferrites,  Monograph  2513. 

Bradley,  W.  W.,  see  Compton,  K.  G. 

CoMPTON,  K.  G.,  Mendizza,  a.,  and  Bradley,  W.  W. 
Atmospheric  Galvanic  Couple  Corrosion,  Monograph  2470. 

Davis,  J.  L.,  see  Suhl,  H. 

Fagen,  R.  E.,  and  Riordan,  John 

Queueing  Systems  for  Single  and  Multiple  Operation,  Monograph 
2506. 

Fine,  M.  E. 

Elastic  Constants  of  Germanium  Between  1.7°  and  80°K,  Monograph 
2479. 

FoRSTER,  J.  H.,  see  Miller,  L.  E. 

Galt,  J.  K.,  see  Yager,  W.  A. 

II'  Geballe,  T.  H.,  see  Morin,  F.  J. 


*  Copies  of  these  monographs  may  l)e  obtained  on  request  to  the  Publication 
Department,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  463  West  Street,  New  York  14, 
N.  Y.  The  numbers  of  the  monographs  should  be  given  in  all  requests. 

527 


528  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

GlANOLA,  U.  F. 

Use  of  Wiedemann  Effect  for  Magnetostrictive  Coupling  of  Crossed 
Coils,  Monograph  2492. 

Green,  E.  I. 
The  Story  of  Q,  Monograph  2491. 

GuLDNER,  W.  G.,  see  Wooten,  L.  A. 

Harrower,  G.  a. 

Measurement  of  Electron  Energies  by  Deflection  in  a  Uniform  Electric 
Field,  Monograph  2495. 

Haus,  H.  a.,  and  Robinson,  F.  N.  H. 

The  Minimum  Noise  Figure  of  Microwave  Beam  Amplifiers,  Mono- 
graph 2468. 

Hines,  M.  E.,  Hoffman,  G.  W.,  and  Saloom,  J.  A. 

Positive-ion  Drainage   in  Magnetically  Focused   Electron  Beams, 

Monograph  2481. 

Hoffman,  G.  W.,  see  Hines,  M.  E. 

Kelly,  M.  J. 

Training  Programs  of  Industry  for  Graduate  Engineers,  Monograph 
2512. 

Law,  J.  T.,  and  Meigs,  P.  S. 

Water  Vapor  on  Grown  Germanium  and  Silicon  n-p  Junction  Units, 
Monograph  2500. 

McAfee,  K.  B.,  Jr. 

Attachment  Coefficient  and  Mobility  of  Negative  Ions  by  a  Pulse 
Techniaue,  Monograph  2471. 

McLean,  D.  A.,  see  Basseches,  H. 

Meigs,  P.  S.,  see  Law,  J.  T. 

Mendizza,  a.,  see  Compton,  K.  G. 

Merritt,  F.  R.,  see  Yager,  W.  A. 


MONOGRAPHS  529 

Miller,  L.  E.,  and  Forster,  J.  H. 

Accelerated  Power  Aging  with  Lithium-Doped  Point  Contact  Transis- 
tors, Monograph  2482. 

Miller,  S.  L. 
Avalanche  Breakdown  in  Germanium,  Monograph  2477. 

Moore,  CI.  E.,  see  Wooten,  L.  A. 

Moore,  G.  E.,  and  Allison,  H.  W. 

Adsorption  of  Strontium  and  of  Barium  on  Tungsten,  Monograph 

2498. 

MoRiN,  F.  J.,  and  Geballe,  T.  H. 

Electrical  Conductivity  and  Seebeck  Effect  in  Nio.so  Fe2.2o04 ,  Mono- 
graph 2514. 

Morrison,  J.,  see  Wooten,  L.  A. 

Nesbitt,  E.  a.,  and  Williams,  H.  J. 

Shape  and  Crystal  Anisotropy  of  Alnico  5,  Monograph  2502. 

Olmstead,  p.  S. 
Quality  Control  and  Operations  Research,  Monograph  2530. 

Pearson,  G.  L.,  see  Read,  W.  T.,  Jr. 

Pfann,  W.  G. 
Temperature  Gradient  Zone  Melting,  Monograph  2451. 

Poole,  K.  M. 
Emission  from  Hollow  Cathodes,  Monograph  2480. 

Read,  W.  T.,  Jr.,  and  Pearson,  G.  L. 

^     The  Electrical  Effects  of  Dislocations  in  Germanium,  Monograph 
!     2511. 

RiORDAN,  John,  see  Fagen,  R.  E. 

Robinson,  F.  N.  H.,  see  Haus,  H.  A. 

Saloom,  J.  A.,  see  Hines,  M.  E. 


530  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

SCHELKUNOFF,  S.  A. 

Electromagnetic  Fields  in  Cavities  in  Terms  of  Natural  Modes  of 
Oscillation,  INlonograph  2505. 

Sears,  R.  W. 

A  Regenerative  Binary  Storage  Tube,  jNIonograph  2527.  '< 

Slighter,  W.  P. 

Proton  Magnetic  Resonance  in  Polyamides,  Monograph  2490. 

SuHL,  H.,  Van  Uitert,  L.  G.,  and  Davis,  J.  L. 

Ferromagnetic    Resonance    in    Magnesium-Manganese    Aluminum 
Ferrite  Between  160  and  1900  mc,  Monograph  2472. 

Tilden,  E.  F.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Treuting,  R.  G. 

Some  Aspects  of  Slip  in  Germanium,  Monograph  2485. 

Uhlir,  A.,  Jr. 

Micromachining  with  Virtual  Electrodes,  Monograph  2515. 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G.,  see  Suhl,  H. 

Walker,  L.  R. 

Power  Flow  in  Electron  Beams,  Monograph  2469. 

Williams,  A.  J.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Williams,  H.  J.,  see  Nesbitt,  E.  A. 

WiNSLOW,  F.  H.,  Baker,  W.  O.,  Yager,  W.  A. 

Odd  Electrons  in  Polymer  Molecules,  Monograph  2486. 

WooTEN,  L.  A.,  Moore,  G.  E.,  Guldner,  W.  G.,  and  Morrison,  J. 
Excess  Barium  in  Oxide-Coated  Cathodes,  Monograph  2497. 

Yager,  W.  A.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

Yager,  W.  A.,  Galt,  J.  K.,  and  Merritt,  F.  R. 

Ferromagnetic  Resonance  in  Two  Nickel-Iron  Ferrites,  Monograph 

2478. 


Contributors  to  This  Issue 

Armand  0.  Adam,*  New  York  Telephone  Company,  1917-1920;  West- 
ern Electric  Company,  1920-24;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories;  1925-. 
Mr.  Adam  tested  local  dial  switching  systems  before  turning  to  design 

j  on  the  No.  1  and  toll  crossbar  systems.  From  1942  to  1945  he  was  as- 
sociated with  the  Bell  Laboratories  School  For  War  Training.  Since 
then  he  has  been  concerned  with  the  design  and  development  of  the 
marker  for  the  No.  5  crossbar  system.  Currently  he  is  supervising  a  group 

I  doing  common  control  circuit  development  work  for  the  crossbar  tandem 

I  switching  system. 

i  Wallace  C.  Babcock,  A.B.,  Harvard  University,  1919;  S.B.,  Harvard 
University,  1922.  U.S.  Army,  1917-1919.  American  Telephone  and  Tele- 

i  graph  Company,  1922-1934;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1934-.  Mr. 
Babcock  was  engaged  in  crosstalk  studies  until  World  War  IL  Afterward 

,  he  was  concerned  with  radio  countermeasure  problems  for  the  N.D.R.C. 

'  Since  then  he  has  been  working  on  antenna  development  for  mobile 
radio  and  point-to-point  radio  telephone  systems  and  military  projects. 

I  Member  of  I.R.E.  and  Harvard  Engineering  Society, 

,  Franklin  H.  Blecher,  B.E.E.,  1949,  M.E.E.,  1950  and  D.E.E., 
,  1955,  Brooklyn  Polytechnic  Institute;  Polytechnic  Research  and  De- 
'  velopment  Company,  June,  1950  to  July,  1952;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
I  tories  1952-.  Dr.  Blecher  has  been  engaged  in  transistor  network  de- 
I  velopment.  His  principal  interest  has  been  the  application  of  junction 
[  transistors  to  feedback  amplifiers  used  in  analog  and  digital  computers. 

He  is  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu  and  Sigma  Xi  and  is  an 

associate  member  of  the  I.R.E. 

W.  E.  Danielson,  B.S.,  1949,  M.S.,  1950,  Ph.D,  1952,  California 

Institute  of  Technology;  Bell  Laboratories  1952-.  Dr.  Danielson  has  been 

j  engaged  in  microwave  noise  studies  with  application  to  traveling-wave 

[  tubes  and  he  has  been  in  charge  of  development  of  traveling-wave  tubes 


*  Inadvertently,  Mr.  Adam's  biography  was  omitted  from  the  January  issue  of 
the  Journal  in  which  his  article,  "Crossbar  Tandem  as  a  Long  Distance  Switch- 
ing Equipment,"  appeared. 

531 


532  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

for  use  at  11,000  megacycles  since  June  of  1954.  He  is  the  author  of 
articles  published  by  the  Journal  of  Applied  Physics,  Proceedings  of  the 
I.R.E.,  and  the  B.S.T.J.,  and  he  is  a  Member  of  the  American  Physical 
Society,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Amos  E.  Joel,  Jr.,  B.S.,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology, 
1940;  M.S.,  1942;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1940-.  IMr.  Joel's  first 
assignment  was  in  relay  engineering.  He  then  worked  in  the  crossbar 
test  laboratory  and  later  conducted  fundamental  development  studies. 
During  World  War  II,  he  made  studies  of  communications  projects 
and  from  1944  to  1945  designed  circuits  for  a  relay  computer.  Later  he 
prepared  text  and  taught  a  course  in  switching  design.  The  next  two 
years  were  spent  designing  AM  A  computer  circuits,  and  since  1949 
Mr.  Joel  has  been  engaged  in  making  fundamental  engineering  studies 
and  directing  exploratory  development  of  electronic  switching  systems. 
He  was  appointed  Switching  Systems  Development  Engineer  in  1954. 
Member  of  A.I.E.E.,  I.R.E.,  Association  for  Computing  Machinery,  and 
Sigma  Xi. 

Esther  M.  Rentrop,  B.S.,  1926,  Louisiana  State  Normal  College. 
Miss  Rentrop  joined  the  transmission  group  of  the  Development  and 
Research  Department  of  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Com- 
pany in  1928,  and  transferred  to  Bell  Laboratories  in  1934.  In  both  com- 
panies she  has  been  concerned  principally  wdth  control  of  crosstalk,  both 
in  field  studies  and  transposition  design  work.  During  World  War  II, 
she  assisted  in  problems  of  the  Wire  Section,  Eatontown  Signal  Corps 
Laboratory  at  Fort  Monmouth,  and  later  she  worked  on  other  military 
projects  at  the  Laboratories  for  the  duration  of  the  war.  Miss  Rentrop  is 
presently  a  member  of  the  noise  and  crosstalk  studies  group  of  the  Out- 
side Plant  Engineering  Department  and  is  engaged  in  studies  of  inter- 
ference prevention. 

Jack  L.  Rosenfeld  is  a  student  in  electrical  engineering  at  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Institute  of  Technology.  He  will  receive  the  S.M.  and  S.B. 
degrees  in  1957.  He  has  been  with  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  on  co- 
operative assignments  in  microwave  tube  development  and  electronic 
central  office  during  1954  and  1955.  He  is  a  student  member  of  the  I.R.E. 
and  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu. 

Joseph  A.  Saloom,  Jr.,  B.S.,  1948,  M.S.,  1949,  and  Ph.D.,  1951,  all 
in  Electrical  Engineering,  University  of  Illinois.  He  joined  Bell  Labora- 
tories in  1951.  Mr.  Saloom  worked  on  electron  tube  development  at' 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO   THIS  ISSUE  533 

Murray  Hill  until  1955  with  particular  emphasis  on  electron  beam 
studies.  He  is  now  at  the  Allentown,  Pa.,  laboratory  where  he  is  en- 
gaged in  the  development  of  microwave  oscillators.  Member  of  the 
Institute  of  Radio  Engineers,  Sigma  Xi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  Pi  Mu  Epsilon. 

Charles  S.  Thaeler,  Moravian  College,  1923-25,  Lehigh  University 
1925-28,  E.E.,  1928.  During  the  summer  of  1927  he  was  employed  by  the 
Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Pennsylvania,  returning  there  after  gradua- 
tion, where  he  was  concerned  with  transmission  engineering  and  the 
Toll  Fundamental  Plan.  In  1943  he  was  on  loan  to  the  Operating  and 
Engineering  Department  of  the  A.T.&T.  Co.,  working  on  toll  transmis- 
sion studies.  From  1944  to  the  present  he  has  been  with  the  Operating 
and  Engineering  Department  and  is  currently  engaged  in  toll  circuit 
noise  and  crosstalk  problems  on  open  wire  and  cable  systems.  Mr. 
Thaeler  is  an  Associate  Member  of  A.I.E.E.,  and  member  of  Phi  Beta 
I  Kappa,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu. 

Ping  King  Tien,  B.  S.,  National  Central  University,  China,  1942; 
M.S.,  1948,  Ph.D.,  1951,  Stanford  University;  Stanford  Microwave 
]>aboratory,  1949-50;  Stanford  Electronics  Research  Laboratory,  1950- 
52;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1952-.  Since  joining  the  Laboratories, 
'  Dr.  Tien  has  been  concerned  with  microwave  tube  research,  particularly 
t  raveling- wave  tubes.  In  the  course  of  this  research  he  has  engaged  in 
studies  of  space  charge  wave  amplifiers,  helix  propagation,  electron  beam 
focusing,  and  noise.  He  is  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi. 

Arthur  Uhlir,  Jr.,  B.S.,  M.S.  in  Ch.E.,  Illinois  Institute  of  Tech- 

jnology,  1945,  1948;  S.M.  and  Ph.D.  in  Physics,  University  of  Chicago, 

'  1950,  1952.  Dr.  Uhlir  has  been  engaged  in  many  phases  of  transistor 

development  since  joining  the  Laboratories  in  1951,  including  electro- 

I  chemical  techniques  and  semiconductor  device  theory.  Since  1952  he 

has  participated  in  the  Laboratories'  Communications  Development 

I'laining  Program,  giving  instruction  in  semiconductors.  Member  of 

American  Physical  Society,  Sigma  Xi,  Gamma  Alpha,  and  the  Institute 

'  of  Radio  Engineers. 

Roger  I.  Wilkinson,  B.S.  in  E.E.,  1924,  Prof.  E.E.,  1950,  Iowa  State 
College;  Northwestern  Bell  Telephone  Company,  1920-21;  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  1924-34;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, 1934-.  As  a  member  of  the  Development  and  Research  Depart- 
iinent  of  the  A.T.&T.  Co.,  Mr.  Wilkinson  specialized  in  the  applica- 
tions of  the  mathematical  theory  of  probability  to  telephone  problems. 


534  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MARCH    1956 

Since  transferring  to  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in  1934,  he  has  con- 
tinued in  the  same  field  of  activity  and  is  at  present  Traffic  Studies 
Engineer  responsible  for  probability  studies  and  traffic  research.  For  two 
years  during  World  War  II,  in  a  civilian  capacity,  he  engaged  in  opera- 
tions analysis  studies  for  the  Far  East  Air  Forces  in  the  South  Pacific, 
for  which  he  received  the  Medal  for  Merit.  He  has  also  served  as  a  con- 
sultant to  the  Air  Force,  the  Navy  and  the  Air  Navigation  Delevopment 
Board.  Mr.  Wilkinson  is  a  member  of  A.I.E.E.,  American  Society  for 
Engineering  Education,  American  Statistical  Association,  Institute  of 
Mathematical  Statistics,  Operations  Research  Society  of  America,  Amer- 
ican Society  for  Quality  Control,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Phi 
Kappa  Phi  and  Pi  ]\Iu  Epislon. 


I 


I 


i 


1        p 


1  cr 


FIG.  25    EQUIVALENT    RANDOM   LOAD   A    AND  TRUNKS    S,  FROM  NON-RANDOM   LOAD  A',V' 


8        10       12       14       16        18      20      22      24      26      28      30      32      34     36      38      40     42      44     46      48      50 


A=AVERAGE    RANDOM    LOAD    IN    ERLANGS 


» 


Copyright  1955  by  Bel]  Telephone  Laboratories,  Incorporated 


Fig.  25  -   Equivalent  random  load  A  and  number  of  trunks  S,  from  non-random  load  A',  V  -  random  loads  0  to  50  erlangs 


FIG.  26    EQUIVALENT  RANDOM   LOAD  A  AND  TRUNKS  S,  FROM  NON-RANDOM    LOAD  A'V 


3  4  5  6  7 

A  =  AVERAGE   RANDOM    LOAD  IN    ERLANGS 


10 


Copyright  1955  by  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Incorporated 


Fig    26  -  Equivalent  random  load  A  and  number  of  trunks  S.  from  non-nuidom  load  A'.  V  -  random  loads  0  to  10  erlangs 


[HE      BELL      SYSTEM 

Jechnical  journal 

fIvOTED    TO    THE    SC  I  E  N  T  I  FIC^W^    AND    ENGINEERING 


[PECTS    OF    ELECTRICAL    COMMUNICATION 

KANSAS  C"^  MO' 


t*M— IM  I    III  I 


(ILUME  XXXV  MAY    1956  NUMBERS 


Chemical  Interactions  Among  Defects  in  Germanium  and  Silicon 

H.  REISS,  C.  S.  FULLER  AND  F.  J.  MORIN   535 

Single  Crystals  of  Exceptional  Perfection  and  Uniformity  by  Zone 
Leveling  D.  c,  bennett  and  b,  sawyer  637 

Diffused  p-n  Junction  Silicon  Rectifiers  M.  b.  prince  661 

The  Forward  Characteristic  of  the  PIN  Diode  d.  a.  kleinman  685 

A  Laboratory  Model  Magnetic  Drum  Translator  for  Toll  Switch- 
ing Offices    F.  J.  buhrendorf,  h.  a.  henning  and  o.  j.  murphy  707 

Tables  of  Phase  of  a  Semi-Infinite  Unit  Attenuation  Slope 

D.  E.  THOMAS  747 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal  751 

Recent  Bell  System  Monographs  759 

Contributors  to  This  Issue  762 


COPYRIGHT  195<  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ADVISORY  BOARD 

F.  R.  KAPPEL,  President,  Western  Electric  Company 

M.  J.  KELLY,  President,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 

E.  J.  McNBELY,  ExecutivB  Vice  President,  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

EDITORIAL    COMMITTEE 


B.  MCMILLAN,  Chairman 

A.  J.   BUSCH 

A.  C.  DICKIESON 

B.  L.  DIETZOLD 
K.  E.  GOULD 

E.  I.  GREEN 


R.  E.  HONAMAN 
H.  R.  HUNTLEY 

F.  R.   LACK 
J.  R.  PIERCE 
H.  V.  SCHMIDT 

G.  N.  THAYER 


EDITORIAL    STAFF 

J.  D.  TEBO,  Editor 

M .  E.  8TRIEBY,  Managing  Editor 

R.  L.  SHEPHERD,  Prodvction  Editor 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  is  pubUshed  six  timea  a  year 
by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  195  Broadway,  New  York 
7,  N.  Y.  Cleo  F.  Craig,  President;  S.  Whitney  Landon,  Se<»etary;  John  J.  Scan- 
Ion,  Treasurer.  Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $3.00  per  year.  Single  copies  are 
75  cents  each.  The  foreign  postage  is  65  cents  per  year  or  11  cents  per  copy.  Printed 
in  U.  S.  A» 


THE   BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XXXV  MAY  1956  number  3 


Copyright  1956,  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


Chemical  Interactions  Among  Defects  in 
Germanium  and  Silicon 

By  HOWARD  REISS,  C.  S.  FULLER,  and  F.  J.  MORIN 

Interactio7is  among  dejects  in  germanium  and  silicon  have  been  investi- 
gated. The  solid  solutions  involved  hear  a  strong  resemblance  to  aqueous 
solutions  insofar  as  they  represent  media  for  chemical  reactions.  Such 
phenomena  as  acid-base  neutralization,  complex  ion  formation,  andion  pair- 
ing, all  take  place.  These  phenomena,  besides  being  of  interest  in  themselves, 
are  uscfid  in  studying  the  properties  of  the  semiconductors  in  which  they 
occur.  The  following  article  is  a  blend  of  theory  ami  experime7it,  and  de- 
scribes developments  in  this  field  during  the  past  few  years. 

CONTENTS 

I .  Introduction 536 

IL  Electrons  and  Holes  as  Chemical  Entities 537 

in.  Application  of  the  Mass  Action  Principle 546 

IV.  Further  Applications  of  the  Mass  Action  Principle 550 

V.  Complex  Ion  Formation 557 

VI.  Ion  Pairing 565 

VII.  Theories  of  Ion  Pairing 567 

VIII.  Phenomena  Associated  with  Ion  Pairing  in  Semiconductors 575 

IX.  Pairing  Calculations 578 

X.  Theory  of  Relaxation 582 

XI.  Investigation  of  Ion  Pairing  by  Diffusion 591 

535 


536  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

XII.  Investigation  of  Ion  Pairing  by  Its  Effect  on  Carrier  Mobility 601 

XIII.  Relaxation  Studies 607 

XIV.  The  Effect  of  Ion  Pairing  on  Energy  Levels 610 

XV.  Research  Possibilities 611 

Acknowledgements 613 

Appendix  A  —  The  Effect  of  Ion  Pairing  on  Solubility 613 

Appendix  B  —  Concentration  Dependence  of  Diffusivity  in  the  Pres- 
ence of  Ion  Pairing 617 

Appendix  C  —  Solution  of  Boundary  Value  Problem  for  Relaxation.  .  619 

Appendix  D  —Minimization  of  the  Diffusion  Potential 623 

Appendix  E  —  Calculation   of  Diffusivities   from   Conductances  of 

Diffusion  Layers 626 

Glossary  of  Symbols 630 

References 634 

I.    INTRODUCTION 

The  effort  of  Wagner'  and  his  school  to  bring  defects  in  solids  into  the 
domain  of  chemical  reactants  has  provided  a  framework  within  which  • 
various  abstruse  statistical  phenomena  can  be  viewed  in  terms  of  the 
intuitive  principle  of  mass  action.^  Most  of  the  work  to  date  in  this  field  ' 
has  been  performed  on  oxide  and  sulfide  semiconductors  or  on  ionic  com-  '[ 
pounds  such  as  silver  chloride.  In  these  materials  the  control  of  defects  ■ 
(impurities  are  to  be  regarded  as  defects)  is  not  all  that  might  be  desired,  i 
and  so  with  a  few  exceptions,  experiments  have  been  either  semiquanti-  . 
tative  or  even  qualitative.  i 

With  the  emergence  of  widespread  interest  in  semi-conductors,  cul-  : 
minating  in  the  perfection  of  the  transistor,  quantities  of  extremely  pure  , 
single  crystal  germanium  and  silicon  have  become  available.  In  addition 
the  physical  properties,  and  even  the  quantum  mechanical  theory  of  the 
behavior  of  these  substances  have  been  widely  investigated,  so  that  a 
great  deal  of  information  concerning  them  exists.  Coupled  with  the  fact 
that  defects  in  them,  especially  impurities,  are  particularly  susceptible 
to  control,  these  circumstances  render  germanium  and  silicon  ideal  sub- 
stances in  which  to  test  many  of  the  concepts  associated  with  defect  I 
interactions. 

This  view  was  adopted  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  a  few  years  ago 
when  experimental  work  was  first  undertaken.  Not  only  has  it  been 
possible  to  demonstrate  quantitatively  the  validity  of  the  mass  action 
principle  applied  to  defects,  but  new  kinds  of  interactions  have  been 
discovered  and  studied.  Furthermore  new  techniques  of  measurement 
have  been  developed  which  we  feel  open  the  way  for  broader  investiga- 
tion of  a  still  largely  unexplored  field. 

In  fact  solids  (particularly  semiconductors  like  germanium  and  silicon) 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Gg   AND   Si  537 

appear  in  every  respect  to  provide  a  medium  for  chemical  reactivity 
similar  to  liquids,  particularly  water.  Such  pehnomena  as  acid-base  reac- 
tions, complex  ion  formation,  and  electrolyte  phenomena  such  as  Debye 
Hiickel  effects,  ion  pairing,  etc.,  all  seem  to  take  place. 

Besides  the  experiments  theoretical  work  has  been  done  in  an  attempt 
to  define  the  limits  of  validity  of  the  mass  action  principle,  to  furnish 
more  refined  electrolyte  theories,  and  most  importantly,  to  provide  firm 
theoretical  bases  for  entirely  new  phenomena  such  as  ion  pair  relaxation 
processes. 

The  consequence  is  that  the  field  of  diamond  lattice^  semiconductors 
which  has  previously  engaged  the  special  interests  of  physicists  threatens 
to  become  important  to  chemists.  Semiconductor  crystals  are  of  interest, 
not  only  because  of  the  specific  chemical  processes  occurring  in  these 
substances,  but  also  because  they  serve  as  proving  grounds  for  certain 
ideas  current  among  chemists,  such  as  electrolyte  theory.  On  the  other 
hand  renewed  interest  is  induced  on  the  part  of  physicists  because  chem- 
ical effects  like  ion  pairing  engender  new  physical  effects. 

The  purpose  of  this  paper  is  to  present  the  field  of  defect  interaction 
as  it  now  stands,  in  a  manner  intelligible  to  both  physicists  and  chem- 
ists. However,  this  is  not  a  review  paper.  Most  of  the  experimental  re- 
sults, and  particularly  the  theories  which  are  fully  derived  in  the  text  or 
the  appendices  are  entirely  new.  Some  allusion  will  be  made  to  published 
work,  particularly  to  descriptions  of  the  results  of  some  previous  theories, 
in  order  to  round  out  the  development. 

The  governing  theme  of  the   article  lies  in  the  analogy  between 
semiconductors  and  aqueous  solutions.  This  analogy  is  useful  not  so 
j  much  for  what  it  explains,  but  for  the  experiments  which  it  suggests. 
:  More  than  once  it  has  stimulated  us  to  new  investigations. 
1     In  our  work  we  have  made  extensive  use  of  lithium  as  an  impurity. 
This  is  so  because  lithium  can  be  employed  with  special  ease  to  demon- 
strate most  of  the  concepts  we  have  in  mind.  This  specialization  should 
not  obscure  the  fact  that  other  impurities  although  not  well  suited  to 
the  performance  of  accurate  measurements,  will  exhibit  much  of  the 
same  behavior. 


II.   ELECTRONS   AND   HOLES   AS   CHEMICAL   ENTITIES 


Since  electrons  and  holes'*  are  obvious  occupants  of  semiconductors 
I  like  germanium  and  silicon,  and  are  intimately  associated  with  the  pres- 
[ence  of  donor  and  acceptor  impurities,^  it  is  fitting  to  inciuire  into  the 
f  roles  they  may  play  in  chemical  interactions  between  donors  and  ac- 


538  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

ceptors.  This  question  has  been  discussed  in  two  papers,^-  ®  and  only  its 
principle  aspects  will  be  considered. 

To  gain  perspective  it  is  convenient  to  consider  a  system  representing 
the  prototype  of  most  systems  to  be  discussed  here.  Consider  a  single 
crystal  of  silicon  containing  substitutional  boron  atoms.  Boron,  a  group 
III  element,  is  an  acceptor,  and  being  substitutional  cannot  readily  dif- 
fuse^ at  temperatures  much  below  the  melting  point  of  silicon.  If  this 
crystal  is  immersed  in  a  solution  containing  lithium,  e.g.,  a  solution  of 
lithium  in  molten  tin,  lithium  will  diffuse  into  it  and  behave  as  a  donor. 
Evidence  suggests  that  lithium  dissolves  interstitially  in  silicon,  thereby 
accounting  for  the  fact  that  it  possesses  a  high  diffusivity^  at  a  tempera- 
ture where  boron  is  immobile,  for  example,  below  300°C.  When  the 
lithium  is  uniformly  distributed  throughout  the  silicon  its  solubility  in 
relation  to  the  external  phase  can  be  determined.  Throughout  this  process 
boron  remains  fixed  in  the  lattice. 

If  both  lithium  and  boron  were  inert  impurities  the  solubility  of  the 
former  would  not  be  expected  to  depend  on  the  presence  or  absence  of 
the  latter,  for  the  level  of  solubility  is  low  enough  to  render  (under 
ordinary  circumstances)  the  solid  solution  ideal.*  On  the  other  hand  the 
impurities  exhibit  donor  and  acceptor  behaviors  respectively,  and  some 
unusual  effects  might  exist.  We  shall  first  speculate  on  the  simplest  possi- 
bility in  this  direction,  with  the  assistance  of  the  set  of  equilibrium  reac- 
tions diagrammed  below.*  , 

Li{Sn)  «=±  Li{Si)  t±  Li+  +  e~ 

+ 
B{Si)  :f±B-   +  e+  (2.1) 

Ti 
eV 

At  the  left  lithium  in  tin  is  shown  as  Li(Sn).  It  is  in  reversible  equilib- 
rium with  Li(Si),  un-ionized  lithium  dissolved  in  silicon.  The  latter,  in 
turn,  ionizes  to  yield  a  positive  Li'^  ion  and  a  conduction  electron,  e~. 
Boron,  confined  to  the  silicon  lattice  as  B(Si)  ionizes  as  an  acceptor  to 
give  B"  and  a  positive  hole,  e"*".  The  conduction  electron,  e~,  may  fall 
into  a  valence  band  hole,  e"*",  to  form  a  recombined  hole-electron  pair, 
e"^e~.  This  process  and  its  reverse  are  indicated  by  the  vertical  equilibrium 
at  the  right. 

All  of  the  reactions  in  (2.1),  occuring  within  the  silicon  crystal  are 
describable  in  terms  of  tansitions  between  states  in  the  energy  band  dia- 


A  glossary  of  symbols  is  given  at  the  end  of  this  article. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  539 


gram  of  silicon,  exhibited  in  Fig.  1.  The  conduction  band,  the  valence 
band,  and  the  forbidden  gap  are  shown.  Lithium  and  boron  both  intro- 
duce localized  energy  states  in  the  range  of  forbidden  energies.  The  state 
for  lithium  lies  just  below  the  bottom  of  the  conduction  band  while  that 
for  boron  lies  just  over  the  top  of  the  valence  band.  The  separations  in 
energy  between  most  donors  or  acceptors  and  their  nearest  bands  are  of 
the  order  of  hundredths  of  an  electron  volt  while  the  breadths  of  the  for- 
bidden gaps  in  germanium  or  silicon  are  of  the  order  of  one  electron  volt. 

Process  1  in  Fig.  1  involving  a  transition  between  the  donor  level  and 
conduction  band  corresponds  to  the  ionization  of  lithium  in  (2.1).  Proc- 
ess 2  is  the  ionization  of  boron  while  process  3  represents  hole-electron 
recombination  and  generation.  The  various  energies  of  transition  are  the 
heats  of  reaction  of  the  chemical-like  changes  in  (2.1). 

Proceeding  in  the  chemists  fashion  one  might  argue  as  follows  concern- 
ing (2.1).  If  e'^e'  is  a  stable  compound,  as  it  is  at  fairly  low  temperatures, 
then  its  formation  should  exliaust  the  solution  of  electrons,  forcing  the 
set  of  lithium  equilibria  to  the  right.  In  this  way  the  presence  of  boron, 
supplying  holes  toward  the  formation  of  e'^e",  increases  the  solubility  of 
lithium.  In  fact  if  e"*"  is  regarded  as  the  solid  state  analogue  of  the  hydro- 
gen ion  in  aqueous  solution,  and  e~  as  the  counterpart  of  the  hydroxyl 
ion,  then  the  donor,  lithium,  may  be  considered  a  base  while  boron,  may 
be  considered  an  acid.  Furthermore  e'*"e~  must  correspond  to  water. 
Thus  the  scheme  in  (2.1)  is  analogous  to  a  neutralization  reaction  in 
which  the  weakly  ionized  substance  is  e'*"e~. 

If  the  immobile  boron  atoms  were  replaced  by  immobile  donors,  e.g., 
I  phosphorus  atoms,  a  reduction,  rather  than  an  increase,  in  the  solubility 


IT 


BORON    LEVELS   (ACCEPTORS) 


x : ;w>/.-v v.^;i::-.:-:VX;^;;;v valence  band v. 


DISTANCE 


Fig.  1  —  Energy  band  diagram  showing  the  chemical  equilibria  of  (2.1). 


540  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

of  lithium  might  be  expected  on  the  basis  of  an  oversupply  of  electrons 
(i.e.,  by  the  common  ion  effect^").  In  that  case  we  would  have  a  base 
displacing  another  base  from  solution. 

The  intimate  comparison  between  this  kind  of  solution  and  an  aqueous 
solution  is  worth  emphasizing  not  so  much  for  what  it  adds  to  one's 
understanding  of  the  situation  but  rather  for  the  further  effects  it  sug- 
gests along  the  lines  of  analogy.  These  additional  phenomena  have  been 
looked  for  and  found,  and  Mill  be  discussed  later  in  this  article. 

The  scheme  shown  in  (2.1)  should  be  applicable,  in  principle,  to  other 
donors  and  acceptors  and  to  germanium  and  other  semiconductors  as 
well  as  silicon.  Furthermore  the  external  phase  may  be  any  one  of  a  suit- 
al)le  variety,  and  need  not  even  be  liquid.  Other  systems,  however,  are 
not  as  convenient,  especially  in  regard  to  the  ease  of  equilibration  of  an 
impurity  over  the  parts  of  an  heterogeneous  system.  The  lengths  to  which 
one  can  go  in  comparing  electrolytes  and  semiconductors  are  discussed 
in  a  recent  paper." 

In  order  to  quantify  the  scheme  of  (2.1)  it  seems  natural  to  invoke  the 
law  of  mass  action.  Treatments  in  which  holes  and  electrons  are  in- 
volved in  mass  action  expressions  are  not  new,  although  systems  forming 
such  perfect  analogies  to  aqueous  solutions  do  not  seem  to  have  been 
discussed  in  the  past.  For  example,  in  connection  with  the  oxidation  of 
copper  Wagner "  writes 

4Cu  -f  O2  ^  2CU2O  -f  40"  +  4e+  (2.2) 

in  which  D  ~  is  a  negatively  charged  cation  vacancy  in  the  CU2O  lattice, 
and  e"^  is  a  hole.  Wagner  proceeds  to  invoke  the  law  of  mass  action  in 
order  to  compute  the  oxygen  pressure  dependence  in  this  system. 

In  another  example  Baumbach  and  Wagner^^  and  others  have  investi- 
gated oxygen  pressure  over  non-stoichiometric  zinc  oxide.  They  consider 
the  possible  reactions 

2ZnO  ;=±  2Zn    +  O2  t\ 

u 

2Z?i+  i^  2Zn++  -f  2e"  (2.3) 

+ 

2e- 

and  apply  the  law  of  mass  action.  In  (2.3)  the  various  states  of  Zii  are 
presumably  interstitial. 

Kroger  and  Vink  have  recently  considered  the  problem  in  oxides  and 
sulfides  in  a  rathcM-  general  way.  However  in  none  of  the  oxide-sulfidc 
systems  has  it  been  possible  to  achieve  really  quantitative  results.  In 


CHEMICAL   INTEKACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  541 

contrast  silicon  and  germanium  offer  possibilities  of  an  entirely  new  order. 
The  advent  of  the  transistor  has  not  only  provided  large  supplies  of  pure 
single  crystal  material,  but  it  has  also  made  available  a  store  of  funda- 
mental information  concerning  the  physical  properties  of  these  sub- 
stances. For  example,  data  exists  on  their  energy  band  diagrams  includ- 
ing impuritj^  states  —  also  on  resistivity  —  impurity  density  curves, 
diffusivities  of  impurities,  etc.  Furthermore,  the  amount  of  ionizable 
impurities  can  be  controlled  within  narrow  limits,  and  can  be  changed 
at  will  and  measured  accurately.  Consequently  it  is  reasonable  to  assume 
that  experiments  on  germanium  and  silicon  will  be  more  successful  than 
similar  investigations  using  other  materials. 

A  t  this  point  it  is  in  order  to  examine  whether  or  not  the  treatment  of 
electrons  and  holes  as  normal  chemical  entities  satisfying  the  law  of 
mass  action  is  altogether  simple  and  straightforward.  This  problem  has 
been  investigated  by  Reiss  who  found  the  treatment  permissible  only 
as  long  as  the  statistics  satisfied  by  holes  and  electrons  remain  classical. 
The  validity  of  this  contention  can  be  seen  in  a  very  simple  manner. 
Consider  a  system  like  that  in  (2.1).  Let  the  total  concentration  of  donor 
(ionized  and  un-ionized)  be  No  ,  the  concentration  of  ionized  donor  be 
D"*",  the  concentration  of  conduction  electrons  be  n,  and  that  of  valence 
band  holes  be  p.  Let  A''^  and  A~  denote  the  concentrations  of  total  ac- 
ceptor and  acceptor  ions  respectively.  Finally,  let  a  be  the  thermody- 
namic activity'^  of  the  donor  (lithium  in  (2.1))  in  the  external  phase. 

Then,  corresponding  to  the  heterogeneous  equilibrium  in  which  lith- 
ium distributes  itself  between  the  two  phases  we  can  write 

^»  -  ^"  =  K,  (2.4) 


a 


in  which  Ko  depends  on  temperature,  but  not  on  composition.  This  as- 
sumes the  semiconductor  to  be  dilute  enough  in  donor  so  that  the  ac- 
tivity of  un-ionized  donor  can  be  replaced  by  its  concentration.  No  —  D^. 
For  the  ionization  of  the  donor  we  can  write  the  mass  action  relation, 


Z)+ 


n 


and  for  the  acceptor. 


Nd  -  D+ 
A~p 


=  Kd  (2.5) 


=  Ka  (2.6) 


iVx  -  A- 
while  for  the  electron-hole  recombination  equilibrium 

np  =  Ki  (2.7) 


542  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

In  (2.5),  (2.6),  and  (2.7)  all  the  i^'s  are  independent  of  composition.  To 
these  equations  is  added  the  charge  neutrality  condition, 

D+  +  p  =  A~  +  7i  (2.8) 

Equations  (2.4)  through  (2.8)  are  enough  to  determine  No  in  its  de- 
pendence on  Na  ,  «,  and  the  various  K's.  Together  they  represent  the 
mass  action  approach.  To  demonstrate  their  validity  it  is  necessary  to 
appeal  to  statistical  considerations. 

Thus  Nd  —  D^,  the  concentration  of  un-ionized  donor  is  really  the 
density  of  electrons  in  the  donor  level  of  the  energy  diagram  for  the  semi- 
conductor. According  to  Fermi  statistics  this  density  is  given  by 

No-  D+  =  No/{l  +  M  exp  \{Eu  -  F)/kT]}  .   (2.9) 

in  which  Ed  is  the  energy  of  the  donor  level,  F  is  the  Fermi  level,  k, 
the  Boltzmann  constant,  and  T,  the  temperature.  Furthermore,  accord- 
ing to  Fermi  statistics,  n,  the  total  density  of  electrons  in  the  conduction 
band  is 


n 


=  E  ^y  {1  +  exp  [{Ei  -  F)/kT]}  (2.10) 


where  Qi  is  the  density  of  levels  of  energy,  Ei ,  in  the  conduction  band, 
and  the  sum  extends  over  all  states  in  that  band.  Similar  expressions  are 
available  for  the  occupation  of  the  acceptor  level  and  the  valence  band. 
F  is  usually  determined  by  summing  over  all  expressions  like  (2.9)  and 
(2.10)  and  equating  the  result  to  the  total  number  of  electrons  in  the 
system.  This  operation  corresponds  exactly  to  applying  the  conserva- 
tion condition,  (2.8).  It  is  obvious  from  the  manner  of  its  determina- 
tion that  F  depends  upon  No  —  D^y  n,  etc. 

If  we  now  form  the  expression  on  the  left  of  (2.5)  by  substituting  for 
each  factor  in  it  from  (2.9)  and  (2.10),  it  is  obvious  that  the  result  de- 
pends in  a  very  complicated  fashion  upon  F,  and  so  cannot  be  the  con- 
stant, Kd  ,  independent  of  composition,  since  in  the  last  paragraph  F 
was  shown  to  depend  on  composition.  On  the  other  hand  if  attention  is 
confined  to  the  limit  in  which  classical  statistics  apply^  the  unities  in 
the  denominators  of  (2.9)  and  (2.10)  can  be  disregarded  in  comparison 
to  the  exponentials,  and  those  equations  become 


1 


No  -  /)+  =  2Noe''"\-'''"''  (2.11); 

and 

n  =  e 


I 


^"''  Z  9ie~"'""  (2.12) 


I 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS    AMONG    DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  543 

respectively.  Moreover,  from  (2.11) 

i)+  ^  Nn[l  -  2e"'^e-^'"'^]  =  Nu  (2.13) 

where  the  second  term  in  brackets  is  ignored  for  the  same  reason  as  unity 
in  the  denominators  of  (2.9)  and  (2.10).  Substituting  (2.11)  through 
(2.13)  into  (2.5)  yields 

D^n       _  ?^--  (2.14) 

in  which  the  right  side  is  truly  independent  of  composition,  since  F  has 
cancelled  out  of  the  expression.  Similar  arguments  hold  for  (2.6)  and 
(2.7).  Therefore  in  the  classical  limit  the  law  of  mass  action  is  valid,  at 
least  insofar  as  internal  equilibria  are  concerned. 

We  have  next  to  examine  the  validity  of  (2.4)  which  is  really  the  law 
of  mass  action  applied  to  the  heterogeneous  equilibrium  between  phases. 
Substitution  of  (2.11)  into  (2.4)  leads  to  the  prediction 

a  =  ^"^^  {e"''}No  =  K{e"''}Nu  (2.15) 

in  the  classical  case,  if  (2.4)  is  valid.  In  order  to  confirm  (2.15)  it  is  neces- 
sary to  evaluate  the  chemical  potentials  of  the  donor  in  the  external 
phase  and  in  the  semiconductor,  and  equate  the  two.  The  resulting  ex- 
pression should  be  equivalent  to  (2.15). 

Since  a  is  the  activity  of  the  donor  in  the  external  phase  its  chemical 
potential  in  that  phase  is,  by  definition, 

M  =  fl'iT,  p)  +  kT  in  a  (2.16) 

where  /i°,  the  chemical  potential  in  the  standard  state,  may  depend  on 
temperature  and  pressure,  but  not  on  composition.  To  compute  the  chem- 
ical potential  in  the  semiconductor  statistical  methods  must  once  more 
be  invoked.  Thus,  according  to  (2.13),  donor  atoms  are  nearly  totally 
ionized  in  the  classical  case,  so  that  the  addition  of  a  donor  atom  to  the 
semiconductor  amounts  to  addition  of  two  separate  particles,  the  donor 
ion  and  the  electron.  The  chemical  potential  of  the  added  atom  is  there- 
fore the  sum  of  the  potentials  of  the  ion  and  the  electron  separately. 
Since  the  ions  are  supposedly  present  in  low  concentration  the  latter 
can  serve  as  an  activity, ^^  and  in  analogy  to  (2.16)  we  obtain  for  the 
ionic  chemical  potential 

MD+  =  hd+\T,  p)  -f  kT  (n  Z)+  (2.17) 


544  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Furthermore,  it  is  well  established'"  that  the  Fermi  level  plays  the  role 
of  chemical  potential,  ju* ,  for  the  electron 

ile  =  F  (2.18) 

Thus  the  chemical  potential  for  the  donor  atom  is 


y^D^  +  M.  =  MB+'  +  kTfnD^  +  F 


(2.19) 

=  Mz)+°  +  kT  inNn  +  F  =  /x/>+"  +  kT  In  [e''"'^]Nn 

where  (2.13)  has  been  used  to  replace  D'^  by  Nd  .  We  note  that  the  ac-| 
tivity  of  the  donor  atom  must  be 

{e^^'^\Nn  (2.20)1 

with  e^""^  playing  the  role  of  an  activity  coefficient." 

Equating  ixd  given  by  (2.19)  to  n  in  (2.16)  results  in  the  equation 

a  =  exp[(M.>+°  -  ix')/kT]{e'^"]Nu  (2.21)| 

which  can  be  made  identical  to  (2.15)  by  identifying 

exp[(Mz.+°  -  n')/kT] 

with  K  of  that  expression.  Thus  in  the  classical  case  the  law  of  mass] 
action  is  applicable  to  the  heterogeneous  equilibrium. 

When  classical  statistics  no  longer  apply  it  is  still  possible  to  evaluatei 
Nd  —  D'^,  using  the  full  expression  (2.9).  Therefore  the  solubility  Nd  J 
of  the  donor  can  still  be  determined  if  (2.4)  remains  valid.  To  decidef 
this  question  it  is  necessary  to  evaluate  hd  ,  the  chemical  potential  of  j 
the  donor  in  the  semiconductor  under  non-classical  conditions.  Thisl 
problem  is  not  as  simple  as  those  treated  above,  but  it  can  be  solved,™ 
and  the  detailed  arguments  can  be  found  in  Reference  5.  Here  we  shall 
be  content  with  quoting  the  results.  However,  before  doing  this  the  non- 
classical  counterpart  of  (2.15)  will  be  written  by  combining  (2.9)  with! 
(2.4).  The  result  is 

a  =  [K,/{1  +  yi  exp[(^„  -  F)/kT\\]ND  (2.22), 

and  if  (2.4)  is  valid  (2.22)  should  be  derivable  by  equating  n  to  the| 
proper  value  of  (Xd  . 

Since  in  the  non-classical  case  a  finite  portion  of  the  donor  states  are'' 
occupied  by  electrons,  the  introduction  of  an  additional  average  donoi 
atom  is  no  longer  equivalent  to  adding  two  independent  particles  whose 
chemical  potentials  can  be  summed.  In  the  statistical  derivation  of  ni 
it  is  therefore  necessary  to  evaluate  the  total  free  energy  of  the  semi- 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  545 

j  conductor  phase,  and  to  differentiate  this  with  respect  to  No  ,  keeping 
I  temperature  and  pressure  fixed.*  The  result  is 

'  ^^  =  juz,+°  +  kT  in  Nd 

(2  23) 
j  +  F  -  kT  In  [1  +  2  Qx\^[- {Ed- F)/kT]] 

I  in  which  it  has  been  assumed  that  the  concentration  of  impurity  is 
j  sufficiently  low  so  that  the  solution  would  be  ideal  if  the  impurity  could 

not  ionize.  In  the  classical  case  the  exponential  in  the  logarithm  is  small 
t  compared  to  unity  and  (2.23)  becomes  identical  with  (2.19),  as  it  should. 
1  In  the  totally  degenerate  case  the  exponential  dominates  the  unity  and 

we  have 

^^  =  {^^+0  -{-  Ed  -  kTin2]  +  kT  (uNd 
I  (2.24) 

=  fil  -{-  kTin  Nd 

'  which  is  the  chemical  potential  of  an  un-ionized  component  of  a  dilute 

j  *  An  interesting  by-product  of  this  derivation  (discussed  in  Reference  5)  is  the 
I  fact  that  the  Fermi  level,  F,  is  hardly  ever  the  Gibbs  free  energy  per  electron  for 
the  electron  assembly,  although  it  is  always  the  electronic  chemical  potential,  in 
1  the  sense  that  it  measures  the  direction  of  flow  of  electrons.  This  arises  because 
I  the  Gibbs  free  energy  is  not  alwa3-s  a  homogeneous  function^^  of  the  first  degree  in 
;  the  mole  numbers  (electron  numbers).  Thus  if  the  number  of  electrons  in  the  as- 
sembly is  N,  the  Gibbs  free  energy,  G,  is  given  by 


G  =^  NF  +  kT  Z 


1 


T.N 


In  ■- 
hi 


where  the  sum  is  over  all  energy  levels,  j,  referred  to  an  invariant  standard  level. 
'  V  is  the  volume  of  the  system,  w/  is  the  total  number  of  states  at  thejth  level,  and 
,  hj  is  the  number  of  unoccupied  states  (holes)  at  the  yth  level.  For  F  to  be  the  free 
!  energy  per  electron  the  term  involving  the  sum  must  vanish  so  that 


But  this  can  only  happen  when 


N 


CO;     =     KjV 


where  K^  is  independent  of  V.  This  requirement  is  formally  met  in  the  case  of  the 
free  electron  gas  where  the  electrons  have  been  treated  as  independent  particles 
in  a  box  so  that 

CO,-  =  [8mo"'  TT  E  dE/2h^V 

where  mo  is  the  electron  mass,  and  h,  Plank's  constant.  Since  this  is  the  case  most 
frequently  dealt  with  in  thermodynamic  problems  it  has  been  customary  to  think 
of  F  as  the  free  energy  per  electron,  although  even  here  the  truth  of  the  contention 
depends  on  the  assumption  of  particle  in  the  box  behavior. 

At  the  other  extreme,  it  is  obvious  that  co,  for  a  level  corresponding  to  the  deep 
closed  shell  states  of  the  atoms  forming  a  solid  cannot  depend  at  all  on  the  ex- 
ternal volume  since  they  are  essentially  localized.  In  computing  the  free  energy 
of  the  semiconductor  phase  it  is  necessary  to  understand  carefully  subtleties  of 
this  nature. 


546  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

solution,  as  it  should  be  for  the  degenerate  case  in  which  ionization  is 
suppressed.  Equating  iid  in  (2.23)  to  n  in  (2.16)  yields 

_  jH  exp  [(>■„/  -  M°  +  Bo)/kT]\  . 

"  -  \     1  +  J/,  exp  [(£  -  FVATJ    /  ^"  ('-^S' 

which  is  identical  Avith  (2.22)  if  A'o  is  taken  to  be 

}i  exp[(Mz>+°  -  M°  +  Eo)/kT]  (2.26) 

Thus  one  arrives  at  the  conclusion  that  the  law  of  mass  action  remains 
valid  for  the  heterogeneous  equilibrium  even  when  it  fails  for  the  homo- 
geneous internal  equilibria. 

This  is  a  fairly  important  result  since  it  implies  that  solubilities  can 
give  information  on  the  behavior  of  the  Fermi  level  and  hence  on  the 
distribution  of  electronic  energy  levels,  even  under  conditions  of  de- 
generacy. 

The  chemical  potential  specified  by  (2.23)  is  of  course  important  in 
itself,  for  treating  any  equilibrium  (external  or  internal)  in  which  the 
donor  may  participate. 

One  last  remark  is  in  order.  This  concerns  the  treatment  of  heterogene- 
ous equilibria  involving  some  external  phase,  and  the  surface^^  rather  than 
the  body  of  a  semiconductor.  In  such  treatments  it  has  been  customary 
to  compute  the  chemical  potential  of  an  ionizable  adsorbed  atom  by 
summing  the  ion  chemical  potential  and  the  Fermi  level,  as  in  (2.19). 
This  is  no  more  possible  if  the  statistics  of  the  surface  states  are  non- 
classical,  then  it  is  possible  when  considering  non-classical  situations 
involving  the  body  of  the  crystal.  Care  must  therefore  be  exercised  also 
in  the  treatment  of  surface  equilibria. 

The  above  discussion  has  shown  that  there  are  extensive  ranges  of 
conditions  under  which  holes  and  electrons  obey  the  law  of  mass  action, 
and  behave  like  chemical  entities.  In  the  next  section  some  of  the  con- 
sequences of  this  fact  will  be  developed. 

III.    APPLICATION    OF   THE   MASS    ACTION   PRINCIPLE 

Equations  (2.4)  through  (2.8)  will  now  be  used  to  determine  how,  in 
the  classical  case,  the  solubility.  No  ,  of  lithium  in  (2.1)  depends  upon 
Na  the  concentration  of  boron  in  silicon.  In  the  experiments  to  be  de- 
scribed, the  systems  are  classical,  and  the  donors  and  acceptors  there- 
fore so  thoroughly  ionized  that  No  can  be  replaced  by  D  and  Na  by 
A~.  Insertion  of  (2.4)  into  (2.5)  yields 

D+n  =  aKoKo  =  K*  (3.1) 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  547 

since  a  is  maintained  constant.  Furthermore  (2.7)  can  be  written  as 

np  =  /vi  =  ni  (3.2) 

where  Wj  is  obviously  the  concentration  of  holes  or  electrons  under  the 
condition  that  the  two  are  equal.  It  is  called  the  intrinsic  concentration 
of  holes  or  electrons.  The  values  of  rii  in  germanium  and  silicon  have  been 
determined  by  Morin.^^'  ^®  Fig.  2  gives  plots  of  the  logarithms  of  n,-  in 
germanium  and  silicon  versus  the  reciprocals  of  temperature.  These  re- 
sults are  necessary  for  subsequent  calculations. 

Since  A''^  and  A"  are  assumed  equal,  we  may  dispense  with  (2.6). 
The  one  remaining  equation  is  then  (2.8)  which  we  adopt  unchanged. 
These  three  relations,  (3.1),  (3.2),  and  (2.8)  are  sufficient  to  determine 
D^  or  Nd  as  a  function  of  A"  or  Na  •  The  only  undetermined  parameter 
in  the  set  is  K*  and  this  can  be  evaluated  by  measuring  the  solubility, 
D"^,  in  the  absence  of  acceptor,  i.e.,  under  the  condition  that  A~  is  zero. 
The  symbol  Do^  is  used  to  designate  this  value  of  D'^.  In  Reference  6  it 
is  shown  that 

Z)/  =  K*/(K*  +  n^y 
or 

K*  =  (Doy/2  +  {{Doy/4:  +  ni'iDoy}'"  (3.3) 

Eliminating  K*  by  the  use  of  this  relation  it  is  further  shown  in  Ref- 
erence 6  that 

A- ' 

1  +  VI  +  (2n,/i)o+)^  ,^^, 

V/2     (^-4) 


D+  = 


+ 


_1  +  Vl  +  {2ni/Do+y_ 


+\2\ 


+  (Do") 


which  is  the  required  relation  between  donor  solubility  and  acceptor 
concentration. 

Examination  of  (3.4)  reveals  several  simple  features,  the  more  import- 
ant of  which  we  list  below: 

(1)  When  A~  (the  acceptor  doping)  is  sufficiently  large  so  that 
{Do^Y  in  the  second  term  can  be  ignored  relative  to  the  term  in  A~, 
(3.4)  reduces  to  that  of  a  straight  line  with  slope 

Knowledge  of  this  slope  is  equivalent  to  knowledge  of  Do  . 

(2)  Wlicre  the  straight  lino  portion  of  the  D^  \'ersus  A~  curve  is  in- 


548 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    AL\Y    1956 


volved,  the  temperature  dependence  of  the  solubiHty,  D'^,  enters  only 
through  the  ratio,  ni/Do^ .  If  this  ratio  is  very  small,  then 

D^  ^  A~  (3.6) 

and  the  solubility  is  independent  of  temperature.  In  this  condition  Z)"^ 
may  approximate  A~  by  being  either  slightly  less  or  slightly  greater  than 
the  latter.  Details  are  given  in  Reference  6. 

(3)  Whereas  D^  at  small  values  of  doping  may  be  an  increasing  func- 
tion of  temperature,  it  may,  depending  on  the  system,  be  a  decreasing 
function  of  temperature  at  high  dopings.  Thus  doping  may  change  the 
sign  of  the  temperature  coefficient  of  solubility.  Because  of  this,  doping 
sometimes  may  prevent  precipitation  of  a  donor  when  a  semiconductor 
is  cooled,  since  the  latter  becomes  an  undersaturated  rather  than  a 
supersaturated  solution  of  impurity.  Details  are  given  in  Reference  6. 

(4)  It  is  also  shown  in  Reference  6  that  for  the  acceptor  to  have  any 
effect  on  the  solubility  of  the  donor  the  concentration  of  A~  should  satisfy 
the  following  criterion 

A-  >  (Do"*"        or        m)  (3.7) 


Do    or  Hi  being  used  depending  on  which  is  greater.  Obviously  at  high 


10 '9 


10 


10' 


18 


5    '0'^ 
O 


lO'S 


10' 


10 


13 


10 


12 


\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

GERMA 

NIUM 

^ 

V 

\ 

5IL 

jcon\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

i 


0.001  0.002  0.003  0-004 

i/TEMPERATURE    in     degrees    KELVIN 


Fig.  2  —  Temperature  dependences  of  intrinsic  carrier  concentrations  in  ger-, 
manium  and  silicon.  "ft 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  549 

temperatures  when  rii  achieves  a  very  large  value  it  may  not  be  possible 
to  have  A~  exceed  n, ,  and  no  effect  due  to  the  acceptor  will  be  observable. 
This  is  simply  a  mathematical  reflection  of  the  fact  that  the  hypothetical 
compound  e'^e~  in  (2.1)  is  highly  dissociated  at  high  temperatures  so  that 
the  holes  contributed  by  the  acceptor  cannot  cause  the  exhaustion  of 
electrons  in  the  solution. 

In  Reference  6  the  system  described  in  (2.1)  was  investigated  for  the 
purpose  of  testing  (3.4).  The  concentrations,  Z)"*"  and  A~,  of  lithium  and 
boron  respectively  were  determined  by  measuring  the  electrical  resis- 
tivities of  the  crystal  specimens  before  and  after  immersion  in  molten 
tin  contaning  lithium.  Some  typical  results  of  these  experiments  are 
shown  in  Fig.  3  which  contains  three  Z)"*"  versus  A~  isotherms  for  the 
temperatures  249°,  310°,  and  404°C.  For  the  case  shown  the  tin  phase 
contained  0.18  per  cent  lithium  by  weight. 

The  points  in  the  figure  represent  experimental  findings,  while  the 
drawn  curves  are  based  on  theory.  The  agreement  between  theory  and 
Ij  experiment  is  very  good,  in  fact  the  overall  accuracy  appears  to  be  bet- 
ter than  1  per  cent.  These  isotherms  are  only  a  few  of  a  large  group  ob- 
tained at  different  temperatures  and  with  differently  proportioned  ex- 
ternal phases.  The  accuracy  in  all  of  these  is  of  the  same  order. 
I  Various  of  the  features  of  (3.4)  listed  above  are  apparent  in  the  curves 
of  Fig.  3.  For  example  at  large  values  of  ^~  the  curves  are  straight  lines, 
thus  validating  (3.5).  Also,  the  inversion  of  the  temperature  coefficient 
of  solubility  with  doping  is  apparent  for  the  curves  cross  one  another, 
md  whereas,  at  low  dopings  (low  A~)  the  solubility  is  an  increasing  func- 

on  of  temperature,  at  high  dopings  it  decreases  with  increasing  tempera- 
ture. Finally  we  note  that  D'^  remains  more  or  less  independent  of  A~ 
until  A~  exceeds  n,- ,  confirming  (3.7).  Values  of  n,-  appear  in  the  Figure. 

The  possible  increases  in  solubility  above  Do^  are  really  quite  large. 
For  example  in  Fig.  3  the  largest  increase  is  of  the  order  of  a  factor  of 
10^  However  in  some  experiments  increases  of  10  have  been  observed. 
These  effects  truly  represent  profound  interactions  between  impurities 
which  are  present  in  highly  attenuated  form.  Thus  the  number  of  atoms 
per  cubic  centimeter  in  crystal  silicon  is  of  the  order  of  5  X  10  cm"  . 
Interactions  at  doping  levels  as  low  as  10^*  cm~^,  as  appear  in  Fig.  3, 
therefore  take  place  at  atom  fraction  levels  of  about  2  X  10    . 

In  Fig.  4  we  show  a  curve  of  lithium  solubility  at  room  temperature 
in  gallium-doped  germanium.  The  curve  is  wholly  experimental;  no 
attempt  has  been  made  to  apply  theory.  The  symbols  D  and  A~  are 
once  more  used  for  the  donor  and  acceptor.  In  this  case  the  curve  again 
exhibits  some  of  the  general  features  required  by  (3.4).  The  measure- 


/ 


550 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  MAY  1956 


10 


18 


17 


10 


r<5 

o 
a.  io'® 

UJ 
Q. 

+ 


10 


,15 


to'' 


10 


,13 


POINTS 

-EXPERIMENTAL 
THEORY 

LUTE    BATH 

"C     nL=6.16Xl0'4 

Dl_ 
D     249 

J 

i 

A     404  "C     nL  =  2.06X  10'6 

J 

"^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

— ff 

^ 

/ 

_ 

— D 

y^ 

10" 


10' 


15 


10" 


10 


,17 


10^ 


,18 


A"  PER    CM3 


Fig.  3  —  Isotherms  showing  the  solubility  of  lithium  Z)+,  in  silicon  as  a  func- 
tion of  boron  doping  A~,  for  an  external  phase  of  tin  containing  0.18  per  cent 
lithium. 


ments  were  made  by  saturating  gallium-doped  germanium  crystals  with 
lithium  by  alloying  lithium  to  the  germanium  surface  at  a  high  tempera- 
ture, and  letting  it  diffuse  in.  Following  this  the  crystals  were  cooled 
and  lithium  was  allowed  to  precipitate  to  equilibrium.  In  this  case  the 
external  solution  is  the  precipitate  and  is  of  unknown  composition. 

If  the  straight  line  portion  of  the  curve  is  used  to  determine  D^/A~ 
appearing  in  (3.5),  the  value  of  Do"*"  associated  with  the  precipitate  as  an 
external  phase  can  be  computed  by  using  the  value  of  n,  obtained  from 
Fig.  2  for  25°C.  The  latter  is  3  X  lO''  cm"',  and  the  measured  D^/A" 
is  0.85.  Application  of  (3.5)  then  leads  to  a  value  of  Dq'^  of  6.6  X  10^' 


+ 


cm     at  25°C.  Since  the  highest  value  of  D    measured  in  Fig.  4  is  5.5  X 


10    cm 


,  the  solubility  increase  here  shows  a  factor  of  10  .  Interaction 
is  already  apparent  at  values  of  A~  as  low  as  10^  cm~*,  and  since  there 
are  4.4  X  10  cm~  atoms  per  cubic  centimeter  in  pure  germanium  this 
represents  interaction  at  levels  of  atom  fraction  as  low  as  2  X  10~  . 


IV.   FURTHER   APPLICATIONS    OF   THE   MASS    ACTION   PRINCIPLE 

In  the  last  section  the  possibility  was  mentioned  of  inverting  the  sign 
of  the  temperature  coefficient  of  solubility,  and  so  preventing  impurity 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS    IN    Ge   AND   Si  551 


10 


19 


10" 


10" 


5 


10'- 


to'' 


o 

/ 

y 

V 

/ 

/ 

/ 

Y 

/ 

A 

_^ 

10 


13 


10'' 


10'S 


10 


16 


10 


17 


10 


t& 


to' 


|19 


GALLIUM     CONCENTRATION    IN    CM" 


Fig.  4  —  Room  temperature  isotherm  showing  the  solubility  of  lithium  in 
germanium  as  a  function  of  gallium  doping,  the  external  phase  being  an  alloy  of 
lithium  and  germanium.  The  curve  merely  shows  locus  of  experimental  points. 


precipitation  which  might  normally  occur  upon  cooling  a  crystal  speci- 
men. An  experiment  demonstrating  this  effect  is  described  in  Reference  6. 
Two  specimens  of  germanium,  one  without  added  acceptor,  and  the  other 
containing  gallium  at  an  estimated  concentration  of  1.3  X  10  cm"  , 
were  saturated  with  lithium.  Table  I  compares  the  changes  in  lithium 
content  observed  in  these  samples  with  the  passage  of  time.  After  25 
days  no  apparent  precipitation  had  occurred  in  the  gallium  doped  speci- 
men, while  precipitation  was  almost  complete  in  the  other. 

This  result  suggests  a  practical  scheme  for  measuring  the  concentra- 
tion of  lithium  along  the  solidus  curve  of  the  lithium-germanium  phase 
diagram,  i.e.,  the  solubility  of  lithium  in  solid  germanium  when  the  ex- 
ternal phase  is  also  composed  of  germanium  and  lithiimi,  and  probably 
represents  the  liquidus  phase.  This  measurement,  though  desirable,  has 
not  been  performed  before  because  lithium,  diffused  into  germanium  at 
an  elevated  temperature,  precipitates  when  the  specimen  is  cooled. 


552 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


Table  I 

Ga  Cone,  (cm-s) 

Li  Cone,  after  saturation 
(cm-3) 

Li  Cone,  after  4  days 
at  room  Temp.  (cm"3) 

Li  Cone,  after  25  days 
at  room  Temp,  (cm"') 

0 
1.3  X  lO's 

1.4  X  10i« 
8.0  X  1018 

9.0  X  1015 
8.0  X  1018 

1.1  X  1016 
8.0  X  1018 

Resistivities  then  measure  only  the  dissolved  lithium  although  the  true 
solubility  at  the  temperature  of  saturation  includes  the  precipitated 
material. 

However,  we  have  seen  that  germanium  suitably  doped  with  gallium 
will  not  lose  lithium  by  precipitation.  Therefore  the  experiment  might 
be  performed  in  doped  germanium.  The  only  difficulty  with  this  sugges- 
tion lies  in  the  fact  that  doping  chayiges  the  solubility.  This  objection  can 
be  overcome  through  use  of  (3.4).  In  terms  of  that  equation  D'^  would 
be  measured  in  the  presence  of  gallium  whereas  Do"^,  the  solubility  in 
undoped  germanium,  is  required.  But  according  to  (3.4)  if  Z)  ,  n, ,  and 
A~  (gallium  concentration)  are  known  Do"*"  can  be  computed.  In  fact 


solving  (3.4)  for  Do    yields 


^+ 


D^(D-^  -  A-) 


+ 


Do"-  = 


/ 


D^iD"-  -  A-) 


+  (Dyn,' 


V' 


rii  + 


D^{D^  -  A~) 


+ 


/ 


Z)^(D^  -  A-) 


-\     2 


(4.1)  i 


+\2      2 


+  aryn^ 


The  plan  is  therefore  self-evident.  Samples  of  germanium  of  known  ! 
suitable  gallium  contents  A~  are  to  be  saturated  with  lithium  at  various  \ 
temperatures.  If  a  judicious  choice  of  gallium  content  is  made  the  lith- 
ium will  not  precipitate  when  the  specimen  is  cooled.  Therefore  the  value  * 
of  D^  characteristic  of  the  saturation  temperature  can  be  determined  ' 
through   resistivity   measurements   performed    at   room    temperature. 
Taking  nj  from  Fig.  2  it  then  becomes  possible  to  calculate  Do    using 
(4.1).  I 

The  crystal  specimens  employed  were  cut  in  the  form  of  small  rec-l 
tangular  wafers  of  dimensions,  approximately  1  cm  X  0.4  cm  X  0.1  cm. " 
On  the  surfaces  of  these,  small  filings  of  lithium  were  distributed  densely 
enough  so  that  their  average  separation  was  less  than  the  half  thickness 
of  the  specimen's  smallest  dimension.  The  filings  Avere  alloyed  to  the 
germanium  specimen  by  heating  in  dry  helium  for  30  seconds  at  530°C.  ■ 
Then  the  crystals  w^ere  permitted  to  saturate  with  lithium  by  diffusion 
from  the  alloy  at  some  chosen  lower  temperature.  After  the  period  of 
saturation  which  ranged  from  one  half  hour  to  as  long  as  1G8  days,  de- 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG    DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  553 


Table  II 


T°C. 

po  ohm  cm 

A-  (cm-3) 

p  ohm  (cm) 

Z>+cm-3 

I»o+  (cm-') 

25 

6.6  X  10" 

100 

0.0523 

2.2  X  10'' 

0.0735 

.9  X  10i« 

2.5  X  10'^ 

200 

0.44 

1.3  X  10i« 

0.90 

7.8  X  1015 

4.6  X  lOK* 

250 

0.1494 

4.7  X  1016 

0  652 

3.9  X  10>6 

2.6  X  1016 

300 

0.042 

2.9  X  10'' 

O.IOS 

2.15  X  10" 

7.3  X  1016 

500 

0.00614 

4.5  X  lO's 

0.0340 

4.13  X  lO's 

1  7  X  1018 

608 

0.00577 

5.0  X  IQis 

0.049 

4.78  X  10i« 

2.8  X  1018 

650 

0.00584 

4.3  X  W 

0.0178 

3.75  X  lO's 

2.4  X  lO's 

pending  on  the  temperature,  the  specimen  surface  was  lapped  smooth 
with  carborundum  paper.  Resistivities  were  then  measured  by  means  of 
a  two  point  probe. 

Table  II  collects  the  data  showing  T,  the  temperature  of  saturation 
in  degrees  centigrade,  po  the  resistivity  before  saturation,  .4"  the  gallium 
concentration  computed  from  po,  p  the  resistivity  after  saturation,  and 
D^  the  lithium  concentration  computed  from  p.  The  final  column  shows 
Do"^  computed  using  (4.1)  and  Fig.  2. 

In  Table  II  the  25°C  value  of  Dq^  has  been  taken  as  the  value  com- 
puted in  section  III  in  connection  with  Fig.  4.  It  might  be  thought  (in 
view  of  a  later  section  in  this  paper)  that  the  25°  and  100°C  values  of 
Do  are  not  as  reliable  as  the  others  because  at  the  low  temperatures 
involved  the  solubility  of  lithium  may  be  influenced  by  ion  pairing  as 
well  as  electron-hole  equilibria.  However,  Appendix  A  shows  that  the 
possible  error  is  small. 

In  Fig.  5  Dq^ is  plotted  against  temperature  using  these  data.  The  plot 
is  the  curve  labeled  GaT  =  0,  and  the  open  circles  were  obtained  by  in- 
serting the  measured  D^  values  (crosses)  into  (4.1).  We  notice  that  the 
curve  has  a  maximum  in  the  neighborhood  of  600°C.  The  occurrence  of 
a  maximum,  is  a  necessity  if  Dq^  is  to  pass  to  zero,  as  it  must  at  the 
melting  point  of  germanium.  It  is  also  worth  noticing  that  Do"*"  near 
room  temperature  lies  in  the  range  of  order  10^^  cm~^,  but  that  its  meas- 
urement has  been  effected  at  concentrations  as  high  as  10^^  cm~^  This 
!  illustrates  another  application  of  the  electron-hole  equilibrium,  namely 
in  the  determination  of  solubilities. 


\18 


and  10    cm 


This 

3 


With  Do    in  our  possession  it  is  interesting  to  return  to  (3.4)  and  to 

calculate  D^  as  a  function  of  temperature  for  various  levels  of  A 

has  been  done  for  values  of  A"  equal  to  10^^  10^ ^  10^^, 

The  curves  so  obtained  appear  in  Fig.  5,  labeled  Ga"  =  10'",  10'°,  10 

1 10    cm"  ,  respectively.  Their  most  striking  common  feature  is  the  mini- 

I  mum  which  appears  below  200°C.  This  minimum  introduces  a  new  prob- 


<i& 


17 


554 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


16 


lem  in  preparing  samples  without  precipitate.  Thus  consider  the  A~  = 
curve.  Suppose  the  specimen  is  saturated  at  200°C.  Then 

D^  after  satura- 
However,  as  the  sample  is  cooled  it  will  tend, 
at  first,  to  become  supersaturated.  For  example  it  will  achieve  its  maxi 
mum  supersaturation  at  about  140°C.  where  the  minimum  of  the  10 

~^  - Thereafter  it  will  return  to  its  undersaturated  state. 

could  be  supported, 
lithium  atoms. 

Some  of  these  may  have  precipitated  as  the  cooling  process  passed 
through  the  minimum,  so  that  sufficient  time  must  be  provided  for  the 
process  of  re-solution. 

If  the  original  saturation  had  taken  place  at  250°C,  the  concentration 


inl6  -3 

1 0     cm 

according  to  Fig.  5,  if  A"  for  the  specimen  is  10    cm~ 

tion  will  be  7  X  10    cm" 


cm     curve  appears. 

In  fact  at  25°C  a  concentration  of  9.3  X  10^^  cm"^ 

whereas  the  solution  contains  no  more  than  7  X  10    cm" 


10 


19 


10 


n 
I 

u 

2  10' 


18 


17 


Z 

o 

< 

cr 

(- 
z 

LU 

u 

z 
o 
o 


10 


16 


10 


15 


10 


H 


10 


,13 


Ga  IN 

; 

X 

<       1 

X 

CM-3  = 

io'« 

•^ 

^^ 

-^ 

X 

to'^ 

^ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

< 

^J 

V 

X 

■"^ — ^ 

/ 

io'6 

«/ 

^ 

// 

X       \ 
10'^ 

1 
J 

x\ 

J 

/ 

0./ 

if 

T\  \  F 

CRY 

/ 

CAL 
FOR 

1 

CULAT    " 

Ga  = 

1 

ED 
1 

■ 

100 


200       300        400       500 
TEMPERATURE    IN    °  C 


600       700 


Fig.  5  —  Solubility  of  lithium  in  germanium  as  a  function  of  temperature  for 
various  gallium  dopings.  The  external  phase  is  an  alloy  of  lithium  and  germanium. 
The  broken  line  is  the  locus  of  the  points  (circles)  calculated  from  equation  (4.1) 
for  zero  gallium  concentration.  The  values  of  A'  and  Z)+,  used  in  applying  (4.1),^ 
correspond  to  the  points  shown  by  X  iu  the  illustration.  See  Table  II. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS    AMONG    DEFECTS   IN    Gg   AND    Si  555 

of  lithium  would  have  been  2.4  X  10  cm~^.  Since  this  exceeds  the  9.3  X 
10^^  cm"  supportable  at  25°C,  such  a  sample  would  have  contained  some 
precipitate.  It  was  important  to  avoid  these  various  pitfalls  in  preparing 
the  specimens  used  in  the  above  study.  Care  was  taken  to  insure  that  this 
was  the  case. 

We  now  turn  to  another  application  of  the  electron-hole  equilibrium. 
It  has  been  emphasized  that  just  as  a  fixed  acceptor  will  increase  the 
solubility  of  lithium  in  silicon,  a  fixed  donor  should  decrease  it.  In  fact 
in  a  crystal  containing  a  p-n  junction"  the  solubility  should  be  above  nor- 
mal on  the  p  side  and  below  normal  on  the  n  side.  The  built-in  field^^ 
which  exists  at  the  junction  is  a  reflection  of  this  difference  in  solubility, 
for  if  it  M^ere  not  present  the  concentration  gradient  created  by  the  dis- 
parity in  solubilities  would  cause  the  lithium  to  diffuse  from  the  p  to  the 
n  side  until  its  concentration  was  uniform  throughout  the  crystal.  Ob- 
viously this  field  is  in  such  a  direction  as  to  cause  lithium  ions  to  move 
back  to  the  p  side.* 

Now  in  both  silicon  and  germanium  the  oxide  layers  on  the  surface 
can  react  readily  with  dissolved  lithium.  As  a  result  the  surface  behaves 
as  a  sink,  and  at  temperatures  as  low  as  room  temperature  lithium  is  lost 
to  the  surface  from  the  body  of  the  crystal.  At  higher  temperatures  the 
body  of  the  crystal  can  be  exhausted  of  lithium  in  a  few  minutes.  There 
are  many  experiments  which  one  would  like  to  perform  in  which  the 
crystal  must  be  maintained  without  loss  of  lithium  at  an  elevated  tem- 
perature for  long  periods  of  time. 

The  application  now  to  be  discussed  involves  utilization  of  the  built-in 
field  at  a  p-n  junction  to  prevent  lithium  from  reaching  the  surface  where 


*  The  distribution  of  lithium  in  the  space  charge  region  of  a  p-n  junction  cannot 
be  computed  by  the  methods  advanced  thus  far.  This  is  because  the  charge  neu- 
trality condition  (2.8)  is  no  longer  valid.  Instead  the  concentration  of  lithium  is 
determined  by  Boltzmann's  law,-'  and  is  given  by 

D+  =  D^+exp  [-  qV/kT] 

where  q  is  the  charge  on  a  lithium  ion,  V  is  the  local  electrostatic  potential,  and 
D^:'*'  is  the  concentration  where  V  is  zero. 

V  itself  must  be  determined  from  Poisson's  equation^" 

V^V  = 

K 

where  p  is  the  local  charge  density  and  k  is  the  dielectric  constant  of  the  medium. 
In  semiconductors  p  is  given  in  terms  of  V  by'^ 

P  =  q[H  +  D+  -  2ni  sinh  (qV/kT)] 

=  q[H  +  D^+  exp  [-  qV/kT]  -  2ni  sinh  (qV/kT)] 

where  H  is  the  local  density  of  fixed  donors  less  the  local  density  of  fixed  acceptors. 


556 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


it  can  attack  the  oxide.  Two  specimens  of  0.34  ohm  cm  p-type  silicon 
doped  with  boron  were  cut  from  adjacent  parts  of  a  crystal.  Each 
specimen  w^as  about  1  cm  long,  0.2  cm  wide,  and  0.15-cm  thick.  The 
samples  were  lapped  on  No.  400  silicon  carbide  paper,  etched  in  HF  and 
HNO3  and  sealed  in  helium-flushed  evacuated  quartz  tubes,  one  con- 
taining a  small  grain  of  P2O5  .  The  tubes  were  then  heated  at  1,200°C. 
for  24  hours.  This  treatment  introduced  an  n-type  layer,  highly  doped 
with  phosphorus  and  about  0.001-cm  thick,  into  the  surface  regions  of 
the  specimen  in  the  tube  containing  P2O5  .  Upon  removal  from  the  tube 
this  specimen  was  lapped  on  the  end  to  remove  the  n-skin.  Complete 
removal  was  determined  by  testing  with  a  thermal  probe. 

Small  cubes  of  lithium  (0.038  cm  on  a  side)  were  placed  on  the  ends  of 
both  samples  (the  lapped  end  of  phosphorus-doped  one)  and  alloyed  to 
the  silicon  for  30  seconds  at  650°C  in  an  atmosphere  of  dry  helium.  After 
this  treatment  the  various  junction  contours  should  have  looked  like 
those  in  Fig.  6,  in  which  the  bottom  crystal  is  shown  with  the  phosphorus- 
doped  skin  (cross  hatched).  During  the  alloying  process  a  small  amount 
of  spherical  diffusion  of  lithium  occurs  so  that  small  hemispherical 
n-regions  form  with  the  alloy  beads  as  origins.  These  are  shown  in  Fig.  6. 

Next  the  specimens  were  heated  in  vacuum  for  about  six  hours  at 
400°C.  Diffusion  of  lithium  into  the  body  of  the  crystal  should  occur 
during  this  period.  However  in  the  sample  not  protected  by  the  n-type 
skin  lithium  should  leak  to  the  oxide  sink  on  the  surface  so  that  the 
n-type  region  due  to  the  lithium  should  have  the  pear-shaped  contour 
shown  in  the  upper  part  of  Fig.  7.  If  the  built-in  field  at  the  p-n  junction 


Fig.  6  —  Initial  stage  following  alloying  in  the  diffusion  experiment  to  demon ,  S 
strate  the  impermeability  to  lithium  of  a  heavily  doped  n-type  skin  on  silicon. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  557 

formed  by  the  phosphorus  layer  prevents  lithium  from  reaching  the  sur- 
face, diffusion  in  the  sample  with  the  skin  should  be  plane  parallel  with  a 
straight  front  (except  at  the  rear  where  the  skin  has  been  lapped  off  and 
lithium  can  leak  out)  as  the  p-n  junction  contour  in  the  lower  part  of 
Fig.  7  indicates. 

An  acid  staining  technique  "  which  reveals  the  junction  contours  should 
then  develop  a  picture  resembling  Fig.  7.  The  two  specimens  were  cut 
along  their  long  axes  and  the  stain  applied  to  the  newly  exposed  sur- 
faces. The  result  has  been  photographed  and  is  shown  in  Fig.  8  where 
the  crystal  on  the  right  has  the  n-skin.  The  p-regions  show  up  dark  and 
the  n,  light.  The  result  agrees  wdth  Fig.  7. 

In  another  experiment  a  crystal  completely  enclosed  in  a  phosphorus 
skin  was  immersed  in  the  tin  bath  described  in  Section  III.  It  was  dis- 
covered that  lithium  entered  the  crystal  with  no  evident  difficulty,  just 
as  though  the  skin  were  absent,  but  once  in,  could  not  be  driven  out  by 
removal  of  the  external  source  and  continued  heating.  The  implication  is 
clear.  The  built-in  field  has  a  rectifying  action  permitting  the  lithium  to 
enter  the  crystal  but  not  to  leave.  In  this  sense  it  performs  the  same  func- 
tion for  the  mobile  lithium  ions  as  it  does  for  holes  in  a  p-n  junction 
diode.'' 

V.   COMPLEX   ION   FORMATION 

In  the  previous  text  processes  involving  the  interaction  of  electrons 
and  holes  have  been  considered.  In  this  section  attention  will  be  drawn, 


JoCn>o<xxx><^0<><>^6^^^\:SX\\«^ 


Fig.  7  —  Distribution  of  lithium  after  an  extended  period  of  diffusion  at  a 
temperature  lower  than  the  alloying  temperature  —  showing  leakage  out  of  the 
crystal  in  the  one  case  (no-skin)  and  conservation  in  the  other. 


558 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


Fig.  8  —  Photograph   of  experimental  situation   described   schematically   in 
Fig.  7. 

to  the  possibility  of  interactions  between  the  donor  and  acceptor  ions 
themselves.  For  example,  in  (2.1)  direct  interaction  of  Li^  and  B"  above 
600°C  may  be  possible,  especially  in  view  of  the  mobility  of  Li^ .  Such 
a  reaction  was  indicated  in  the  work  of  Reiss,  Fuller,  and  Pietruszkie- 


34 


wicz. 

Fig.  9  is  of  assistance  in  understanding  the  nature  of  these  observa- 
tions. In  it  are  shown  plots  of  the  solubility  of  lithium  in  silicon.  In  this 
case  the  situation  is  similar  to  that  involved  in  the  germanium  curves 
of  Fig.  5  because  the  external  phase  is  composed  of  silicon  and  lithium 
and  is  probably  of  the  liquidus  composition.  It  is  formed  by  simply 
alloying  lithium  to  the  silicon  surface.  In  Fig.  9,  Curve  A,  illustrates 
how  solubility  depends  on  temperature  when  the  silicon  is  undoped. 
Curve  B,  unlike  A,  is  not  an  experimental  plot,  i.e.,  it  is  not  supposed 
to  represent  the  locus  of  the  points  through  which  it  seems  to  pass.  In- 
stead it  has  been  calculated  from  the  theory  expounded  below.  The  points 
themselves  are  experimental  and  represent  solubility  measurements  on 
silicon  doped  with  boron  to  the  level  1.9  X  10    cm" 


I 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  559 

Curve  A  possesses  a  maximum  (just  as  the  Dq^  curve  of  Fig.  5)  in  the 
neighborhood  of  650°C.  A  marked  disparity  is  apparent  between  solu- 
bihties  in  undoped  and  doped  sihcon,  the  sohibiHty  in  the  latter  bemg 
greater.  Below  500°C  this  disparity  is  easily  understood.  It  stems  from 
the  electron-hole  equilibrium  considered  previously.  However  the  high 
solubility  in  doped  silicon  at  high  temperatures  is  not  explicable  on  this 
basis  since  the  crystal  becomes  intrinsic,  and  e'^e~  is  mostly  dissociated. 
To  account  for  this  phenomenon  Reiss,  Fuller,  and  Pietruszkiewicz 
invoked  the  idea  of  interaction  between  Li'^  and  B".  They  presented 
the  following  argument. 

At  low  temperatures  lithium  ions  occupy  the  interstices  of  the  silicon 


•        1  EXPERIMENTAL 

/\ 

/•••^ 

p 

9 
B 

7  /    \\ 

^     v\ 

1 

/ 

\\ 

7 

L 

r 

\  \ 

11 

\\ 

t 

6 

11 

h 

V  \ 

^  /  / 

I  \ 

b// 

\ 

/ 

/A 

• 

3 

/ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

1 

\ 

/    i 

1 

°  \ 

y 

• 

^ 

/ 

o 

O 

c 

)    1 
1 
1 
1 

1 

\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
• 

• 

1/ 
• 

\ 

9 

J 

\ 

• 

i 

\ 

\ 

8 

7 

/ 

/ 

I 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 
/ 

^ 

/ 

r 

\ 

t 

1 

\ 

•\ 

2 

200 


400  600  800  1000 

TEMPERATURE    IN    DEGREES    CENTIGRADE 


1200 


Fig.  0  —  Plots  showing  the  soluliilitj'  of  lithium  in  silicon  us  a  function  of  tem- 
perature. The  external  phase  is  an  alloy  of  lithium  and  silicon.  Curve  A  is  for  un- 
doped silicon.  The  locus  of  the  points  in  B  is  for  silicon  doped  with  about  1.9  X  10^* 
cm~^  boron. 


560 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


lattice  as  in  Fig.  10.  In  an  interstitial  position  lithium  can  approach  an 
oppositely  charged  boron,  but  the  interaction  will  be,  at  the  most, 
coulombic  so  that  an  ion  pair  will  form  (see  later  sections).  A  covalent 
bond  is  unable  to  appear  not  only  because  there  are  no  electrons  avail- 
able for  it,  but  also  because  the  lithium  ion  cannot  move  to  a  position 
where  it  can  satisfy  the  tetrahedral  symmetry  inherent  in  sp^  hybridiza- 


tion. Calculations  (of  the  sort  appearing  in  the  later  sections  of  this 
paper)  show  that  at  high  temperatures,  at  the  ion  densities  involved, 
ion  pairs  of  the  kind  depicted  in  Fig.  10  are  completely  dissociated. 

Suppose,  however,  that  as  temperature  is  raised  vacancies  dissolve 
in  the  silicon  lattice,  and  that  one  such  vacancy  occupies  a  position  near 


Fig.  10  —  Schematic  diagram  of  a  silicon  lattice  showing  a  lithium  ion  in  an 
interstitial  position  near  a  substitutional  boron  ion,  as  it  occurs  in  an  ion  pair. 


a  boron  ion,  as  in  Fig.  11,  a  slight  modification  of  Fig.  10  in  which  the 
dots  represent  electrons  (dangling  bonds).  Unpaired  electrons  such  as 
these  might  capture  an  electron  from  the  valence  band  of  silicon  so  that 
the  vacancy  acquires  a  negative  charge  and  behaves  like  an  acceptor. 
It  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  positive  lithium  ion  will  move  into 
this  negative  vacancy,  in  the  tetrahedral  position,  and  form  a  covalent 
bond  as  in  Fig.  11.  The  lithium-boron  complex  so  formed  retains  a  nega- 
tive charge  and  is  thus  a  complex  ion.  If  the  specimen  were  extrinsic  at 
these  high  temperatures,  there  would  still  appear  to  be  as  many  net 
acceptors  as  before  the  addition  of  lithium.* 

If  the  LiB~  compound  is  stable  enough  (a  question  to  which  we  shall 

*  It  is  possible  that  rapid  cooling  may  quench  some  of  these  LiB  acceptors  into 
the  crystal  at  room  temperature.  If  this  is  so  it  should  be  possible  to  investigate 
the  associated  energy  level  by  Hall  measurements  in  the  interval  of  time  before  ' 
the  complexes  anneal  out.  Similar  phenomena  might  be  observed  in  germanium. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG    DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  561 

return  below)  to  hold  the  lithium  atom,  the  solubility  of  lithium  will  be 
determined  principally  by  the  density  of  boron  atoms.  At  low  tempera- 
tures, \-a(*an('ies  are  reabsorbed  and  the  lithium  atoms  return  to  their 
interstitial  positions,  at  quenched-in  densities  corresponding  to  the  tem- 
peratures of  equilibration.  However,  boron  acceptors  now  appear  to  be 
compensated  since  interstitial  lithium  behaves  as  a  donor.  This  renders 
it  feasible  to  measure  the  concentration  of  lithium  by  the  determination 
of  resistivity. 

The  overall  reaction  may  be  written  in  the  form 


w^  +  B^  +  n  +  t"  - 

=  LiB~                        (5.1) 

in  which  D  represents  a  vacancy.  This  equilibrium  can  be  grafted  onto 

(2.1)  so  that  the  latter  becomes  (ignoring  un- 

ionized  lithium  and  boron) 

Li  (external)  <r^  Li^         + 

e~ 

+ 

+ 

B-          -f 

e-^ 

+ 

'  * 

D 

eV                       (5.2) 

+ 

e 

T 

LiB~ 

The  original  vertical  equilibrium  involving  holes  and  electrons  loses  its 
significance  at  high  temperatures,  and  the  new  vertical  reaction  becomes 
important,  for  both  D  and  e~  appear  in  increased  concentrations.  In  this 
way  a  certain  amount  of  symmetry,  insofar  as  temperature  is  concerned, 
is  introduced  into  the  problem,  i.e.,  as  one  equilibrium  ceases  to  dominate 

SL  SL  SL  SL  SL  SL 

v\/       \/\. 

B  Sl  B  SL 

•     •    \     ::!     /  \    • 

SL         LL"^       □  SL  SL  LL  ^SL 

.  .        /  -e  \       .  . 

SL  SL  SL  SL 

SL  St  SL  SL  SL 

Fig.  11- — Schematic  diagram  illustrating  the  reaction  in  (5.1).  The  square 
nqjresents  the  center  of  a  vacancj^  and  the  dots,  electrons  left  unpaired  by  the  oc- 
currence of  the  vacancy. 


562  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

the  system  the  other  begins  to  take  effect.  This  symmetry,  of  course,  is 
necessary  for  explaining  the  symmetrical  locus  of  the  points  around  Curve 
B  in  Fig.  9. 

The  scheme  (5.2)  can  be  treated  quantitatively  by  applying  the  mass 
action  principle,  but  now  the  symbol  D^  can  not  be  used  for  the  solu- 
bility of  lithium  since  the  totality  of  dissolved  lithium  is  distributed 
between  LiE~  and  Li^,  and  the  symbol  only  applies  to  the  latter.  We 
therefore  denote  the  total  concentration  of  lithium  by  No  ,  and  the  con- 
centration of  LiB"  by  C.  Then 

No  =  D^  +  C  (5.3) 

The  same  argument  applies  to  boron,  so  that  its  total  concentration  will 
be  designated  by 

Na  =  A-  +  C  (5.4) 

The  problem  then  reduces  to  specifying  No  as  a  function  of  Na  •  To 
accomplish  this,  to  (3.1)  and  (3.2)  is  added  the  mass  action  expression 
going  with  (5.1) 

""^  =  ^e-w-)  =  ^  (5,5) 


D+A-n 


where  7  and  jS  are  constants.  It  has  been  assumed  that  the  vacancy  con- 
centration follows  a  temperature  law  of  the  form  7*  exp[  —  ^*/T]  where  ^ 
7*  and  ;S*  like  7  and  ^  are  constants.  This  permits  the  equilibrium  con- 
stant when  multiplied  by  the  vacancy  concentration  to  assume  the  form 
7  exp[  — /S/r]  shown  in  (5.5).  In  place  of  (2.8)  a  new  conservation  condi- 
tion, 

D^-\-p  =  C+A-  +  n  (5.6) 

is  introduced.  The  combination  (3.1),  (3.2),  (5.3),  (5.4),  (5.5)  and  (5.6) 
can  be  solved  so  that  No  ,  the  lithium  solubility  appears  as  a  function  of 
the  total  boron  concentration  A^^  .  Thus 


^"  -  1  +  Vl  +  (2n,/No^y  +  y  {1  +  Vl  +  (2n,/iV.o) j  +  ^^^""^' 

^_   TNANpyjl  +  Vl  +  {2n~/N7)'] 
2  -I-  wiNo'fil  +  Vl  +  (27ii/No'y\ 

In  this  equation  No  like  Do  in  (3.4)  is  the  solubility  of  lithium  in  un- 
doped  silicon,  i.e.,  in  silicon  from  which  boron  is  absent. 

All  the  parameters  in   (5.7)  are  independently  measurable  save  x 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG    DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  563 

which  can  be  known  for  all  temperatures  when  7  and  jS  have  been  deter- 
mined. Reiss,  Fuller,  and  Pietruszkiewicz  used  two  of  the  points  near 
Curve  B  in  Fig.  9,  above  1,000°C,  to  define  values  of  No  for  use  in  (5.7). 
Then  t  was  computed  from  (5.7)  at  these  two  temperatures.  From  these 
values  of  t,  7  and  (3  were  determined,  and  from  these,  in  turn,  w  was 
calculated  for  all  temperatures  down  to  200°C.  Using  t,  Nd  was  computed 
from  (5.7)  over  the  entire  experimental  range  of  temperature.  The  result 
is  Curve  B  of  Fig.  9  which  fits  the  experimental  points  very  well. 

Another  check  on  the  validity  of  the  theory  (which  has  not  yet  been 
accomplished)  would  be  the  following.  At  high  temperatures  (5.7)  re- 
duces to 

^.  =  i^.«  +  |^^^^f4L+^  (5.8) 

l2  +  TiN^yil  +  Vl  +  (2n,/A^z,o)2]J 

i.e.,  Nd  is  a  linear  function  of  Na  with  the  slope  (in  brackets)  depending 
upon  X.  Measurement  of  this  slope  at  one  temperature  would  thus  pro- 
vide an  independent  evaluation  of  tt. 

A  little  thought  concerning  the  scheme  outlined  in  (5.2)  leads  one  to 
wonder  why  the  introduction  of  boron  really  increases  the  solubility  of 
lithium  because  the  same  mechanism  could  be  applied  to  the  case  in 
which  boron  is  absent,  i.e.,  to  Curve  A  of  Fig.  9.  Thus,  if  B~  is  replaced 
by  a  silicon  atom  in  Figs.  10  and  11,  the  entire  scheme  can  be  adopted 
unchanged,  except  that  Si  replaces  B~.  Thus 

Li  (external)  <=±  Li"^      -{-      e~ 

^  +  + 

Si        +      e+ 

+  Ti 

D  eV  (5.9) 

-f 
e 

u 

LiSi 

and  one  wonders  why  LiB~  should  be  more  stable  than  Li  Si.  A  possible 
answer  is  the  following: 

The  tetrahedral  covalent  radius  of  boron  is  0.88  A.  This  is  to  be  con- 
trasted  with  the  tetrahedral  radius  of  silicon  which  is  1.17  A.  When 
boron  is  substituted  in  the  silicon  lattice  it  therefore  produces  consider- 
able local  compressive  strain.  This  strain  is  partially  relieved  when  a 
\  acancy  is  formed  adjacent  to  the  boron.  Thus  the  energy  required  to 
form  a  vacancy  near  a  boron  ion  in  silicon  is  less  than  is  required  for  its 


564  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


formation  near  a  silicon  atom.  Hence  the  endothermal  heat  of  formation 
of  LiB"  in  (5.2)  is  reduced  substantially  (by  the  amount  of  the  released 
energy  of  elastic  strain)  below  the  heat  of  formation  of  LiSi.  This  ac- 
counts for  the  greater  stability  of  the  former. 

The  compressive  strain  around  a  substitutional  boron  in  germanium 
is  also  illustrated  by  ion  pairing  studies  to  be  described  later  in  Section 
XII.  Its  action  in  that  case  keeps  the  ions  which  form  a  pair  from  ap- 
proaching each  other  as  closely  as  they  otherwise  might.  Although  really 
quantitative  studies  of  pairing  have  not  yet  been  performed  in  silicon, 
the  lattice  parameters  of  germanium  and  silicon  are  sufficiently  close  to 
render  it  fairly  certain  that  the  same  strain  exists  in  the  latter  as  in  the 
former.  This  lends  support  to  the  previous  argument. 

Before  closing  this  section  there  is  another  related  topic  which  is  worth 
mentioning.  This  concerns  part  of  the  explanation  of  the  retrograde  solu- 
bility observable  in  the  curves  of  Figs.  5  and  9,  i.e.,  the  occurrence  of  the 
maxima.  The  solubilities  along  these  curves  are  given  by  (3.3)  in  the  form 

Suppose  that  at  low  temperatures  K*  is  an  increasing  function  of  tem- 
perature and  considerably  larger  than  Ui .  Then  we  have  the  approxima- 
tion 

A""  =  (K*f'  (5.10) 

in  which  the  solubility  Do^  must  increase  with  temperature.  If  Ui  in- 
creases more  rapidly  than  K*  with  temperature,  a  point  will  be  reached 
at  which  nf  in  the  denominator  of  the  (3.3)  in  its  special  form  above, 
exceeds  K*  by  so  much  that  the  latter  can  be  ignored.  When  this  is  so 
another  approximation  holds, 

J.       K* 
Do"-  =  —  (5.11) 

rii 

in  which  Do"*"  decreases  with  temperature  since  rii  increases  more  rapidly 
than  K*.  Since  (5.10)  predicts  an  increase  in  solubility  with  temperatmc 
at  low  temperatures  and  (5.11)  a  decrease  at  higher  temperatures  a 
maximum  occurs  somewhere  between.  The  maximum  may  not  be  due  to 
this  cause  alone,  however.  For  example  K*  contains  the  activity,  a,  in 
the  external  phase,  and  this  may  vary  with  temperature  in  an  erratic 
manner. 

In  any  event  the  influence  of  the  electron-hole  equilibrium  on  Z)o^  in 
both'silicon  and  germanium  cannot  be  ignored.  The  fact  that  the  distri- 
bution coefficients  of  donors  and  acceptors  in  silicon  are  usually  some 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  565 

ten-fold  greater  than  in  germanium  may  be  due  to  the  smaller  width  of 
the  forbidden  gap  in  the  latter.  This  makes  for  greater  values  of  n,-  and 
according  to  (3.3)  smaller  values  of  Do^. 

VI.   ION   PAIRING 

The  preceding  text  drew  an  analogy  between  semiconductors  and 
aqueous  solutions  —  phenomena  such  as  neutralization,  common  ion  ef- 
fects, and  complex  formation  have  been  discussed.  Another  feature  of 
"wet"  chemistry  which  has  appealed  to  chemists  concerns  the  influence 
of  coulomb  forces  among  ions  on  the  properties  of  solutions.  This  subject 
is  of  peculiar  interest  because  such  forces  are  well  understood,  and  con- 
siderable progress  can  be  made  in  the  quantitative  prediction  of  their 
effects. 

The  first  really  successful  theoretical  treatment  of  coulomb  forces  in 
solution  is  the  Debye-Hiickel  theory.^''  This  treatment  recognizes  the 
long  range  character  of  coulomb  forces,  and  endeavors  to  account  for 
their  effects  in  terms  of  a  communal  interaction  involving  all  of  the  ions 
in  solution.  The  theory  has  now  been  shown  to  include  certain  statistical 
inconsistencies^^  which,  however,  are  of  small  consequence  in  dilute  solu- 
tions where  theory  and  experiment  are  in  excellent  agreement. 

The  central  feature  of  the  Debye-Hiickel  theory  is  the  concept  of  the 
ionic  atmosphere,  i.e.,  the  time  average  excess  concentration  of  ions  of 
opposite  sign  which  accumulates  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  particular  ion. 
The  radius  of  this  atmosphere  is  measured  (order  of  magnitude-wise)  by 
the  now  famous  Debye  length. 


"  ys7q 


87rgW 


(6.1) 


ill  which  K  is  the  dielectric  constant  of  the  medium,  q  is  the  charge  on  an 
ion,  and  N  is  the  (in  this  case  identical)  concentration  of  both  positive 
and  negative  ions.  As  k  decreases  or  N  increases,  L  becomes  smaller  so 
that  the  atmosphere  is  more  tightly  gathered  in.  As  this  process  continues 
a  stage  is  reached  in  which  the  atmospheres  of  some  of  the  ions  may 
be  best  thought  of  as  being  fully  constituted  by  a  single  ion  of  opposite 
sign,  i.e.,  an  ion  pair  forms.  This  pair-wise  interaction  is  so  intense  rela- 
tive to  the  communal  interaction  mentioned  above,  that  insofar  as  the 
paired  ions  are  concerned  it  may  be  regarded  as  the  only  interaction  in- 
fluencing the  distribution  of  the  pairs  themselves.  Unpaired  ions  may  still 
be  treated  by  the  communal  Debye-Hiickel  theory  but  their  concentra- 
tion must  be  considered  as  the  true  concentration  of  ions  reduced  by  the 


566  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

concentration  of  pairs  since  tlie  latter  possess  effectively  no  fields.  In  any 
event  when  pairing  occurs  the  Debye-Hiickel  effects  are  relatively  second 
order,  since,  even  normally,  they  represent  quite  small  deviations  from 
ideal  solution  behavior.  Under  pairing  conditions  it  is  desirable,  in  the 
first  approximation,  to  focus  one's  attention  on  the  pairing  interaction. 

While  developing  the  aqueous  solution  analogy  inherent  in  our  semi- 
conductor model  it  is  natural  to  inquire  whether  or  not  a  system  like 
(2.1),  in  which  at  least  one  of  the  ions  can  move,  will  show  effects  due  to 
coulomb  interaction.  A  preliminary  calculation  using  (6.1)  indicates 
that  if  coulomb  effects  are  to  be  observed  they  are  likely  to  be  of  the  ion 
pairing  variety  rather  than  of  the  Debye-Huckel  type  because  the  dielec- 
tric constants  of  semiconductors  are  low  relative  to  that  of  water,  e.g., 
12  for  silicon^^  and  16  for  germanium^''  as  against  80  for  water .^^  The 
dominance  of  ion  pairing  stems,  as  it  will  become  clear  later,  from  still 
another  feature  peculiar  to  semiconductors.  This  is  the  closeness  with 
which  two  ions  of  opposite  sign  can  approach  one  another  in  semicon- 
ductors. In  any  event  experiments  are  not  yet  at  the  stage  of  sensitivity 
necessary  for  the  accurate  measurement  of  the  small  Debye-Hiickel 
effects  so  that  we  are  virtually  compelled  to  ignore  such  phenomena. 

Fig.  10  is  a  picture  of  an  ion  pair  in  boron-doped  silicon.  Corresponding 
to  this  process  one  may  sketch  in  another  vertical  equilibrium  in  (2.1) 
to  yield  (ignoring  un-ionized  Li) 

Li  (external)  ^  Li'^  +  e~ 

+  + 

B-  +  e"^  (6.2) 

u  u 

[Li-^B-]  eV 

where  [Li'^B~]  stands  for  the  ion  pair  in  which  the  individual  ions  main- 
tain their  polar  identities  and  the  binding  energy  is  coulombic.  The  ion 
pair  is  a  compound  in  a  statistical  sense  since  as  will  be  seen  later  the  dis 
tance  between  the  ions  of  a  pair  is  distributed  over  a  range  of  values.  The  ■ 
interaction  between  Li'^  and  B~  is  to  be  distinguished  from  that  sho\\ii 
in  (5.2).  The  latter  occurs  at  high  temperatures  whereas  the  former  is 
presumably  limited  to  low  temperatures,  below  300°C. 

The  quantitative  aspects  of  ion  pairing  were  first  considered  by  Bjer-  _ 
rum  and  later  by  Fuoss^^  who  placed  Bjerrum's  theory  on  a  somewhat 
more  acceptable  basis.  Fuoss's  theory,  however,  suffers  from  some  of  the 
same  limitations  as  Bjerrum's.  Nevertheless  the  Bjerrum-Fuoss  theory  is 
capable  of  satisfying  experimental  data  over  broad  ranges  of  conditions. 
In  the  next  section  w^e  present  a  brief  resume  of  this  theory  together  with 
relevant  criticism  and  its  relation  to  a  more  refined  theory  due  to  Reiss. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  567 

VII.  THEORIES  OF  ION  PAIRING 

Fuoss  begins  by  considering  a  solution  of  dielectric  constant  k,  con- 
taining equal  concentrations,  A'',  of  ions  of  opposite  sign.  When  equilib- 
rium has  been  achieved  each  negative  ion  will  have  another  ion  (most 
probably  positive)  as  a  nearest  neighbor,  a  distance  r  away  from  it. 
Fuoss  discounts  the  possibility  that  the  nearest  neighbor  will  be  another 
negative  ion,  and  proceeds  to  calculate  what  fraction  of  such  nearest 
neighbors  lies  in  spherical  shells  of  volumes,  ixr^  dr,  having  the  negative 
ions  at  their  origins.  If  this  fraction  is  denoted  by  g{r)  dr,  it  may  be  evalu- 
ated as  follows. 

In  order  for  the  nearest  neighbor  to  be  located  in  the  volume,  Airr"  dr, 
two  events  must  take  place  simultaneously.  First  the  volume,  47rr  /3, 
enclosed  by  the  spherical  shell  must  be  devoid  of  ions,  or  else  the  ion  in 
the  shell  would  7iot  be  the  nearest  neighbor.  Since  g(x)dx  is  the  proba- 
bility that  a  nearest  neighbor  lies  in  the  shell,  ^TX^dx,  the  probability 
that  a  nearest  neighbor  does  not  lie  in  this  shell  is  1  —  g(x)dx.  From  this 
it  is  easily  seen  that  the  chance  that  the  volume  47rrV3  is  empty  is 

E(r)  =  I  -    f  gix)  dx  (7.1) 

where  a  is  the  distance  separating  the  centers  of  the  two  ions  of  opposite 
sign  when  they  have  approached  each  other  as  closely  as  possible. 

The  second  event  which  must  take  place  is  the  occupation  of  the  shell 
;:  47rr^  dr  by  any  positive  ion.  The  chance  of  this  event  depends  on  the  time 
average  concentration  of  positive  ions  at  r.  This  concentration  is  bound 
to  exceed  the  normal  concentration  A^  by  an  amount  depending  on  r, 
because  of  the  attractive  effect  of  the  negative  ion  at  the  origin.  It  may 
be  designated  by  c{r).  The  probability  in  question  is  then 

47rr'c(r)  dr  (7.2) 

The  chance  g{r)  dr  that  the  nearest  neighbor  lies  in  the  shell  A-wr  dr  is 
therefore  the  product  of  (7.1)  by  (7.2),  i.e.,  the  product  of  the  proba- 
bilities of  the  two  events  required  to  occur  simultaneously.  This  leads 
to  the  relation 

g{r)  =  (l  -  £  gix)  dA  ^^^Mr)  (7.3) 

an  integral  equation  whose  solution  is 

g(r)  =  exp     —  47r   /    x^cix)  dx     4Trr^c(r)  (7.4) 

Ja 


568 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


4.S 
40 
3.5 
3.0 

X10^ 

j^ 

— -v 

/ 

N 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

B2.5 

1 

\ 

f 

Y 

Z 

g2.0 

en 

\ 

\ 

1.6 

— s 

k 

1.0 
0.5 

7 

\ 

/ 

\. 

0 

^ 

^ 

' 

05  1.0  1.5  20  2.5  3.0  3.5  4.0 

r  IN    CENTIMETERS 


4.5 


5.0 


5.5 


6.0 
X10~^ 


Fig.  12  —  Distribution  of  nearest  neighbors  in  a  random  assembly  of  particles 
for  a  concentration  of  10^^  cm~^. 


That  (7.4)  solves  (7.3)  is  easily  demonstrated  by  substitution  of  the 
latter  into  the  former. 

If  there  were  no  forces  of  attraction  between  ions  then  c{r)  would 
equal  N,  and  if  a  is  take  equal  to  zero  (7.4)  reduces  to 

g{r)  =  47rr'A^exp(-47rr'A^/3)  (7.5) 

This  function  is  plotted  in  Fig.  12  for  the  case  N  =  10^^  cm~^  Note  that 
the  position  of  the  maximum,  the  most  probable  distance  of  location  of  a 
nearest  neighbor,  occurs  near  the  value  of  r  equal  to  (3/47rA^)^'^  This  is 
the  radius  of  the  average  volume  per  particle  when  the  concentration  is 
N,  i.e.  the  volume,  1/A^. 

In  order  to  write  g{r)  for  the  case  of  coulombic  interaction  it  is  neces- 
sary to  compute  c(r)  under  these  conditions.  Fuoss  (after  Bjerrum)  rea- 
soned as  follows.  If  a  theory  can  be  constructed  which  depends  only  upon 
the  characteristics  of  near  nearest  neighbors  (nearest  neighbors  at  small 
values  of  r)  then  the  force  of  interaction  experienced  by  the  nearest 
neighbor  can  be  assumed  to  originate  completely  in  the  coulomb  field  of 
the  negative  ion  at  the  origin.  This  is  predicated  on  the  argument  that 
both  positive  and  negative  ions  develop  atmospheres  of  opposite  sign 
which  are  superposed  when  the  two  ions  are  close  to  one  another.  The 
result  is  a  cancellation  of  the  net  atmosphere  leaving  nothing  for  the  two 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  569 

ions  to  interact  with  but  themselves.  Thus  the  potential  energy  of  inter- 
action, for  near  nearest  neighbors  will  be 

-  -  (7.6) 

KV 

For  small  values  of  r,  therefore,  c(r)  can  be  derived  from  Boltzmann's 
law  and  is  given  by 

c(r)  =  hexp[q-/KkTr]  (7.7) 

where  his  a  constant.  Guided  by  the  requirement  that  c(r)  should  equal 
A^  at  infinite  distance  from  the  central  negative  ion,  h  was  set  equal  to 
N  giving,  finally, 

c{r)  =  N  exp  [g'/KkTr]  (7.8) 

The  assumption  that  a  theory  could  be  developed  depending  only  on 
near  nearest  neighbors  proved  reasonable,  but  the  choice  of  /t  =  A''  in 
(7.8)  leads  to  certain  logical  diflEiculties.  Thus  the  average  volume  domi- 
nated by  a  given  negative  ion  is  evidently  1/A^.  If  (7.8)  is  summed  over 
this  volume  the  result,  representing  the  number  of  positive  ions  in  1/A'', 
should  be  unity  since  there  are  equal  numbers  of  positive  and  negative 
ions.  Unfortunately,  the  i-esult  exceeds  unity  by  very  large  amounts  ex- 
cept for  very  small  values  of  iV,  i.e.,  for  veiy  dilute  solutions.  We  shall 
return  to  this  point  later. 

If  (7.8)  is  inserted  into  (7.4)  the  resulting  g{r)  has  the  form  typified 
by  Fig.  13.  First,  there  is  an  exponential  maximum  occurring  at  r  =  a, 
followed  bj^  a  long  low  minimum,  and  this  by  another  maximum  which 
like  the  one  in  Fig.  12  occurs,  not  far  from  r  =  (3/47rA'')*'^,  if  N  is  not 
too  large.  For  small  values  of  N  the  minimum  occurs  at 

r  =  h  =  q/2KkT  (7.9) 

The  function  g{r)  is  actually  normalized  in  (7.4)  so  that  the  area  under 
the  curve  is  unity.  The  second  maximum  corresponds  to  the  most  proba- 
ble position  for  a  nearest  neighbor  in  a  random  assembly,  i.e.,  to  the  maxi- 
mum in  Fig.  12.  Essentially  the  first  maximum  has  been  grafted  onto 
Fig.  12  by  the  interaction  at  close  range  which  makes  it  probable  that 
short  range  neighbors  will  exist.  At  high  values  of  N  the  region  under  the 
first  maximum  becomes  so  great  that  enough  area  is  drained  (by  the  con- 
dition of  normalization)  from  the  second  maximum  to  make  it  disappear 
entirely.  At  this  point  the  minimum  is  replaced  by  a  point  of  inflection. 
More  will  be  said  concerning  this  phenomenon  later. 

Fuoss  chooses  to  define  all  sets  of  nearest  neighbors  inside  the  mini- 


570 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


Fig.  13  —  Schematic  distribution  of  neighbors  in  an  assembl}-  of  particles  when 
forces  of  interaction  are  present.  Repulsive  forces  are  reflected  in  the  appearance 
of  a  distance  a,  of  closest  approach  of  two  particles,  attractive  forces  b}-  the  ex- 
ponential ma.ximum  at  a . 


mum,  i.e.,  inside  6  =  5  /2k/cT',  as  ion  pairs,  and  the  rest  as  unpaired.  Noj 
thought  is  given  to  the  small  fraction  of  nearest  neighbors  which  involvesi 
ions  of  like  sign,  as  it  must  be  small  inside  r  =  h.  Nor  is  any  thought 
given  to  the  possibility  that  a  given  positive  nearest  neighbor  may  be  the 
nearest  neighbor  of  two  negative  ions  simultaneously.  Such  a  coincidence 
would  be  very  improbable  at  a  distance  short  enough  to  be  within  r  =  b. 
Thus  if  the  entire  theory  can  be  made  to  depend  on  what  happens  inside 
b,  its  foundations  are  reasonable,  except  for  the  choice  oi  h  =  N. 

To  obviate  this  difficulty  Fuoss  had  further  to  devise  a  means  of  per- 
forming all  calculations  under  conditions  where  the  choice  of  /i  =  iVi 
was  not  inconsistent.  He  assumed  (following  Bjerrum)  that  paired  and 
unpaired  ions  were  in  dynamic  equilibrium  and  that  the  law  of  mass  ac- 
tion could  be  applied  to  this  equilibrium.  Thus  if  P  represents  the  con-| 
centration  of  pairs,  N  —  P  denotes  the  concentration  of  unpaired  ions  of; 
one  sign  and  the  mass  action  expression  is 


P 


(N  -  py 


=  fi 


(7.10)1 


where  Q,  is  an  equilibrium  constant  independent  of  concentration.  At 
infinite  dilution,  where  the  assignment  h  =  N  is  valid,  U  should  be  the' 
same  as  at  higher  concentrations.  Therefore  (7.4)  can  be  used  to  evalu-' 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  571 

ate  12  at  infinite  dilution,  and  the  value  so  obtained  employed  at  higher 
concentrations. 

Besides  the  inconsistency  of  the  choice,  h  =  N,  the  form  (7.4)  contains 
another  objectionable  feature.  This  is  revealed  by  a  more  rigorous  treat- 
ment devised  recently  by  Reiss,    and  has  to  do  with  the  factor, 


exp  [— 47r   /    x^c(r)  dx], 

Ja 


in  (7.4).  It  can  be  shown  that  this  factor  is  inconsistent  with  the  suppo- 
sition that  the  nearest  neighbor  to  a  given  negative  ion  interacts  only 
with  that  ion  and  no  other.  Fortunately,  in  Fuoss's  scheme  g(r)  given  by 
(7.4)  needs  to  be  used  only  at  infinite  dilution,  and  then  only  for  such 
values  of  r  as  lie  inside  h.  Under  this  condition  and  in  this  range  the  ex- 
ponential factor  in  question  can  be  replaced  by  unity  from  which  it  de- 
viates only  slightly.  Thus  the  form  of  g(r)  used  eventually  is 

g(r)  =  Awf^N  exp  [q^KkTr-]  (7.11) 

U  is  computed  as  follows.  At  infinite  dilution  P  tends  toward  zero  so 
that  (7.10)  becomes 

^  =  fiA^  (7.12) 

But  P/N  is  the  fraction  of  ions  paired  which  by  definition  is  the  fraction 
of  nearest  neighbors  lying  inside  r  ^  h.  From  the  definition  of  g{r), 
P/N  is  evidently  given  by 

^  =    I    g(r)  dr  =  4.tN  [   r'  exp  [q^KkTr]  dr  (7.13) 

iV  Ja  "a 

which  upon  substitution  in  (7.12)  yields 

j^  =  47r  f    r'  exp  [q'/KkTr]  dr  (7.14) 

The  evaluation  of  0  in  this  way  permits  one  to  base  the  entire  theory  on 
the  distribution  of  near  nearest  neighbors,  so  that  all  the  assumptions 
\\hich  demand  this  procedure  are  validated. 

Using  the  computed  12  in  (7.10)  P  can  be  evaluated,  and  also  N  —  P 
which  as  the  concentration  of  free  ions  of  one  species  measures  the  ther- 
modynamic activity  of  that  species.  In  this  manner  it  is  possible  to  calcu- 
late the  equilibrium  effects  of  coulomb  interaction  insofar  as  solution 
properties  are  concerned.  To  treat  transport  phenomena  such  as  ionic 
mobility  in  an  applied  electric  field  Fuoss  assumes  that  paired  ions  repre- 


572  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

senting  neutral  complexes  are  unable  to  respond  to  the  applied  field  and 
so  do  not  contribute  to  the  overall  mobility.  The  mobility  of  unpaired 
ions  is  assumed  to  be  no ,  the  mobility  observable  at  infinite  dilution.  The 
apparent  mobility  n  at  any  finite  concentration  is  then  no  reduced  by 
the  fraction  P/N  of  ions  paired.  Thus 

M  =  [1  -  iP/N)U  (7.15) 

The  Bjerrum-Fuoss  theory  when  applied  to  real  systems  reproduces 
the  experimental  data  very  well,  although  the  parameter  a,  the  distance 
of  closest  approach,  needs  to  be  determined  from  the  data  itself.  : 

The  concept  of  a  pair  defined  in  terms  of  the  minimum  occurring  at  b, 
becomes  rather  vague  when  that  minimum  vanishes  in  favor  of  a  point 
of  inflection.  At  this  stage  triplets  and  other  higher  order  clusters  form; 
and  the  situation  becomes  very  complicated. 

In  Reference  44,  Reiss  has  developed  a  more  refined  theory  of  pairing. 
Instead  of  avoiding  the  use  of  an  inconsistent  g(r)  by  introduction  of  the 
mass  action  principle,  an  attempt  is  made  to  provide  a  rigorous  form  for 
g(r),  which  proves  to  be  the  following 

g(r)  =  exp  [-47rr^A^/3]  47rr\  exp  [q^/KkTr]  (7.16) 

in  which 

! 

h  =  I  /    j    exp  [-  47rr'i\r/3]  4xr'  exp  [q'/KkTr]  dr       (7.17)  i 

It  is  also  shown  that  the  activity  of  an  ionic  species,  measured  by  A^  —  P 
in  the  Bjerrum-Fuoss  theory,  is  measured  by  y/hN  in  the  more  rigorous , 
theory.  The  distribution  (7.16)  suffers  neither  from  an  inability  to  con-d 
serve  charge  in  the  volume  1/N  (as  does  (7.4))  nor  from  any  inconsistency 
involving  the  interaction  of  a  nearest  neighbor  with  other  ions  than  the 
one  to  which  it  is  nearest  neighbor  [as  does  (7.4)]. 

When  -s/hN  computed  by  (7.17)  is  compared  with  {N  —  P)  computed 
according  to  (7.10)  and  (7.14),  for  arbitrary  values  of  /c,  a,  T,  and  N, 
the  results  are  almost  identical.  This  shows  the  virtue  of  the  Bjerrum- 
Fuoss  theory,  and  in  fact,  suggests  that  in  most  cases  it  should  be  used 
for  calculation  rather  than  the  more  refined  theory,  for  the  latter  involves 
rather  complicated  numerical  procedures. 

The  refined  theory  can  also  be  adapted  to  the  treatment  of  transport 
phenomena.  Thus  in  place  of  g{r)  it  is  possible  to  write  a  distribution 
function  r(r),  specifying  the  fraction  of  nearest  neighbors  lying  in  the  \o\- 
ume  element  dr,  in  a  system  in  the  steady  state  rather  than  at  equilib- 
rium. In  the  presence  of  an  applied  field  the  distribution  loses  its  spheri- 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  573 


cal  symmetry  and  it  must  be  defined  in  terms  of  the  volume  elment  df, 
lying  at  the  vector  distance  r,  rather  than  in  terms  of  the  spherical  shell 
of  volume,  47rr  dr.  In  reference  (44)  it  is  shown  that 


T{r)  =  exp  [-4Tr'N/3]c{r) 


(7.18) 


where  6(7)  is  the  density  function  in  the  non-equilibrium  case,  and  is 
determined  by  the  equation 


IcT 


Vc  +  cV"  t//  +  Vc  •  Vi/'  =  0 


(7.19) 


after  suitable  boundary  conditions  have  been  appended.  The  quantity 
^,  designates  the  local  electrostatic  potential,  determined  by  the  ions  as 
well  as  the  applied  field.  These  equations  are  restricted  specifically  to 
the  semiconductor  case  in  w^hich  the  negative  ion  is  unable  to  move. 

The  current  carried  by  nearest  neighbors  in  the  volume  element  dr 
in  unit  volume  of  solution  is 

Jir)  =  -exp[-47rrW/3]c(?)/xoV[i/'  +  (kT/q)  tn  c(f)]        (7.20) 

Using  these  equations  it  proves  possible  in  reference  45  to  provide  a 
more  refined  version  of  (7.15)  in  which  the  mobility  of  nearest  neighbors 
inside  r  =  h  need  not  be  considered  zero,  nor  those  outside  r  =  6  be  con- 
sidered perfectly  free  and  possessed  of  the  mobility  )Uo  .  In  fact  the  aver- 
age mobility  of  a  nearest  neighbor  separated  by  a  distance  r  from  its 
immobile  partner  proves  to  be 


^       2(1  -  F)  \L3r2  ^  3r  ^    _ 


exp  (-  e/r)  +  2F 


.3r 


-  1 


where 


and 


£  =  q/KkT 


F  =  (7^+§  +  l)exp(-£/a) 


,2 

,2a2       a 

I'or  values  of  ?■  greater  than  e  (7.21)  can  be  approximated  by 
p.  1   /  £"      ,    4£  ^ 


i"0 


2  V3r2 


+  -  +  2    exp  (-  e/r) 


(7.21) 


(7.22) 


(7.23) 


(7.24) 


and  is  therefore  a  function  of  e/r.  Fuoss's  b  corresponds  to  r  =  £/2  or  to 
r/r  =  2.  Fig.  14  contains  a  plot  of  jl/no  versus  r  for  T  =  400°K,  a  = 
cm,  5  =  4.77  X  10"^"  statcoulombs,  and  k  =   16.  Note  that 


-*.5  X  10" 


574  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


o 


li 


0.4 


0.2 


'n 

2e 

} 

/ 

/ 

T  =  400°  K 

K  =  16 

0  =  2.5x10-8  CM 

J 

10  20  30  40 

r  IN   CM  X  (08 


50 


60 


Fig.  14  —  Average  mobility  (calculated  from  the  refined  theory  of  pairing)  of 
a  mobile  ion  in  a  pair  as  a  function  of  the  distance  from  its  immobile  neighbor. 
The  example  shown  corresponds  to  a  substance  having  a  =  2.5  X  10~*  cm  k  =  16 
at  a  temperature  of  400°K. 

at  r  =  £/2  =  6,  ju/juo  is  near  0.5  which  is  the  average  value  of  Fuoss's 
/i/)Uo  for  ions  taken  from  either  side  of  r  =  h.  Therefore  a  certain  sym- 
metry with  respect  to  r  =  6  does  exist,  tending  to  justify  Fuoss's  model. 
According  to  (7.24)  ju/juo  is  0.8  by  the  time  r  =  3£/2  =  36,  independent 
of  the  value  of  a.  In  other  words  an  ion  located  a  short  distance  beyond 
h  does  have  practically  complete  mobility  as  the  Bjerrum-Fuoss  theory 
assumes. 

The  refinement  of  (7.15)  which  occurs  can  be  written  as  follows 


+  2f(^  -  A  exp  (£/r) 


(7.25) 


exp  (-  4t/N/3)  dr\ 


Mo 


Comparison  of  ju/mo  computed  from  (7.25)  with  1  —  (P/N)  appearing 
in  (7.15)  over  wide  ranges  of  conditions  again  reveals  an  excellent  cor- 
respondence and  further  substantiates  the  Bjerrum-Fuoss  theory.  Since 
calculations  employing  the  latter  are  so  much  simpler  it  is  expedient  to 
regard  the  cruder  theory  as  an  accurate  approximation  to  the  more  re- 
fined one.  This  practice  will  be  followed  from  now  on. 


CHEMICAL    INTERACTIONS   AMONG    DEFECTS    IN    Gc   AND    Si  575 

VIII.    PHENOMENA  ASSOCIATED  WITH  ION  PAIRING  IN  SEMICONDUCTORS 

In  this  section  we  shall  discuss  some  of  the  phenomena  which  are  to 
be  expected  in  semiconductors  when  ion  pairing  takes  place.  At  the  time 
of  writing  several  of  these  phenomena  have  been  investigated  quantita- 
tively in  germanium  and  casually  in  silicon.  A  report  on  these  studies 
will  be  given  in  the  later  sections  of  this  paper. 

In  the  meantime  it  is  fitting  to  inquire  into  the  peculiarities  which  arise 
because  a  semiconducting  medium  rather  than  a  dielectric  liquid  is  in- 
volved. The  possible  means  of  detecting  and  measuring  ion  pairing  in 
semiconductors  are  numerous,  and  many  of  them  do  not  have  counter- 
parts in  aqueous  solution.  This  implies  that  a  host  of  new  phenomena  are 
to  be  expected,  many  of  which  are  peculiar  to  semiconductors. 

Some  distinctions  between  semiconductors  and  liquids  are  apparent 
at  once.  Thus  ions  are  not  always  mobile  in  semiconductors  at  tempera- 
tures where  ion  pairing  is  pronounced.  Lithium  is  exceptional  in  this 
respect,  being  mobile  in  germanium  and  silicon  down  to  very  low  tem- 
peratures. In  fact  ion  pairing  has  been  observed  in  germanium  containing 
lithium  down  to  dry  ice  temperatures,  and  even  below.  Another  difference 
is  the  low  dielectric  constant  of  semiconductors  as  compared  with  water. 
I^'urthermore,  in  semiconductors,  charge  balance  need  not  be  maintained 
l)y  the  ions  themselves,  but  may  be  effected  by  the  presence  of  holes  or 
electrons.  Although  charged  the  latter  entities  need  not  be  considered  in 
pairing  processes  since,  as  particles,  they  possess  effective  radii  of  the 
order  of  their  thermal  wavelengths  which  may  exceed  20  Angstroms  at 
the  temperatures  involved.  At  these  distances  very  little  coulomb  binding 
energy  would  be  available.  Under  certain  rare  conditions  the  screening 
effect  of  these  mobile  carriers  may  make  some  contribution.  This  may  be 
particularly  the  case  when  relaxation  processes  (to  be  discussed  later)  are 
carried  out  in  poorly  compensated  specimens  of  semiconductor,  since 
such  processes  involve  phenomena  between  ions  separated  by  large  dis- 
tances. 

A  very  obvious  distinction  is  the  fact  that  ions  in  a  semiconductor 
Dccupy  a  lattice,  and  cannot  therefore  move  through  a  continuum  of 
positions,  as  in  the  case  of  liquid  solutions.  Furthermore  the  lattice  may 
introduce  elastic  strain  energy  into  the  binding  energy  of  a  pair.  This 
influence  will  alter  the  value  of  a,  the  distance  of  closest  approach,  when 
the  latter  is  chosen  so  as  to  achieve  the  best  fit  between  theory  and  ex- 
periment. As  the  extent  of  pairing  is  extremely  sensitive  to  the  magnitude 
of  a,  its  measurement  provides  a  useful  tool  for  exploring  the  state  of 
telrain  in  the  neighborhood  of  an  isolated  impurity.  We  shall  demonstrate 


576  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

this  application  later  in  connection  with  the  strain  in  the  neighborhood 
of  a  substitutional  boron  in  germanium. 

Aside  from  its  bearing  on  the  minimum  distance  a,  the  existence  of  the 
lattice  will  be  ignored  in  the  following  considerations. 

The  values  of  a,  typical  of  semiconductors,  are  generally  of  the  order 
of  2  Angstroms  as  against  6  to  8  Angstroms  for  ions  in  liquids.  This  re- 
sults from  the  fact  that  liquid  ions  are  generally  solvated.  The  conse- 
quence to  be  expected,  and  indeed  found,  is  that  ion  pairing  will  be  far 
more  pronounced  in  semiconductors  than  in  liquids  of  comparable  di- 
electric constant. 

The  fact  that  ions  have  limited  mobilities  in  semiconductors  can  be 
turned  to  advantage  by  choosing  a  system  such  as  lithium  and  boron  in 
silicon  in  which  only  one  species  of  ion,  in  the  case  mentioned,  lithium,  is 
mobile.  Under  these  conditions  it  is  possible  to  obviate  the  clustering 
phenomenon,  mentioned  previously,  which  appears  in  liquids  at  high  ion 
concentrations.  Clustering  is  prevented  because  the  immobile  ions  are 
uniformly  distributed  in  a  random  manner,  having  been  grown  into  the 
crystals  at  high  temperature  where  pairing  and  related  processes  are  un- 
important. The  obvious  complications  attending  cluster  formation  can 
therefore  be  avoided. 

Of  course,  mobility,  being  limited  to  a  single  species  of  ion  is  also  an 
advantage  in  the  theory  of  the  transport  phenomena,  in  such  systems. 

It  is  convenient  to  list  some  of  the  effects  due  to  pairing  Avhich  are  to 
be  expected  in  semiconductors.  We  do  so  in  the  following  compilation. 

{A)  Equilihrium  Phase  Relations 

From  (6.2)  it  is  apparent  that  the  pairing  equilibrium  should  affect 
the  solubility  of  lithium  in  silicon.  The  same  must  be  true  for  germanium 
doped  with  an  acceptor.  Although  such  effects  probably  occur,  they  are 
accompanied  by  influences  arising  from  the  other  possible  equilibria.  As 
a  result  the  situation  is  somewhat  complex  and  it  is  not  easy  (see  Ap- 
pendix A)  to  produce  experimental  conditions  under  which  pairing  will 
be  evident.  For  this  reason  quantitative  investigations  along  these  lines 
have  not  yet  been  attempted. 

(B)  Variation  of  Energy  Levels 

When  an  ion  pair  is  formed  of  a  donor  and  acceptor,  both  the  donor 
and  acceptor  levels  are  altered.  Thus  the  proximity  of  the  negative  ac- 
ceptor ion  increases  the  difficulty  of  return  to  the  donor  state  for  an 
electron,  (i.e.  the  donor  level  is  raised).  Likewise  the  acceptor  level  is 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  577 

lowered.  In  ion  pairs  it  is  in  fact  to  be  expected  that  the  donor  level  will 
be  moved  up  into  the  conduction  band  and  the  aceptor  level  down  into 
the  valence  band.*  This  change  in  energy  level  structure  should  be  ap- 
parent in  Hall  coefficient  measurements  at  low  temperature.  Experiments 
of  this  sort  have  been  conducted  and  are  reported  in  this  paper.  Under 
certain  conditions  this  phenomenon  may  be  useful  for  the  elimination  of 
trapping"*^  levels  from  the  forbidden  gap. 

(C)  Change  of  Carrier  Mohilitij 

Ion  pairs  possess  dipolar  fields,  and  consequently,  scattering  cross-sec- 
tions very  much  smaller  than  those  of  point  charges.  The  addition  of 
hthium  to  a  sample  under  such  conditions  that  more  than  half  the  added 
lithium  becomes  paired  should  therefore  increase  rather  than  decrease 
the  mobility  of  holes.  The  latter  effect  is  the  one  to  be  expected  in  the 
absence  of  pairing.  In  other  words  not  only  carriers  but  also  the  scat- 
terers  are  removed  by  compensating  the  acceptor  with  donor.  Experi- 
ments of  this  sort  have  been  performed.  They  are  described  later  in  this 
paper.  Since  they  allow  us  to  measure  the  degree  of  pairing  with  good 
accuracy  they  have  been  very  valuable  in  validating  the  theory,  and  also 
in  exploring  the  nature  of  the  potential  function  in  the  neighborhood  of 
an  isolated  acceptor. 

(D)  Relaxation  Times 

A  semiconductor  containing  unpaired  donors  and  acceptors  at  one 
temperature  can  be  cooled  to  a  lower  temperature,  and  the  impurities 
should  then  pair.  If  the  temperature  is  lowered  sufficiently,  the  pairing 
process  will  be  slow  enough  to  be  followed,  kinetically,  by  observing  any 
parameter  (such  as  carrier  mobility)  sensitive  to  pairing.  Experiments  of 
this  sort  have  been  performed  and  will  be  described  later. 

The  process  of  pairing  can  be  characterized  by  a  calculable  relaxation 
time,  which  depends  on  the  acceptor  concentration,  the  diffusivity  of 
the  mobile  donor,  the  dielectric  constant,  and  the  charges  on  the  ions 
among  other  things.  The  measured  time  can  therefore  be  used  as  a  means 
of  determining  any  one  of  these  parameters. 

(E)  Diffusion 

It  is  evident  that  pairing  should  reduce  the  diffusivity  of  a  mobile 
donor.  Studies  of  diffusion  in  the  presence  of  an  immobile  acceptor  should 

*  A  rough  calculation  indicates  that  about  0.5  e.v.  would  be  required  to  place 
an  additional  electron  on  an  ion  pair. 


578  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

therefore  reveal  the  action  of  pairing.  Experiments  of  this  sort  have  been 
performed  and  will  also  be  described  in  this  paper. 

The  reduction  in  the  diffusivity  of  a  donor  such  as  lithium  may  be 
desirable  in  certain  places. 

(F)  Direct  Transport 

Diffusion  studies  suffer  from  the.  defect  that  ion  pairing  produces  a 
concentration  dependent  diffusivity.  (See  Appendix  B).  For  this  resaon 
a  very  desirable  measurement  would  involve  determining  the  amount  of 
a  mobile  donor  like  lithium  transported  by  an  electric  field  through  a 
uniformly  saturated  specimen  of  semiconductor.  This  flux,  together  with 
information  concerning  the  level  of  saturation,  should  provide  a  direct 
measure  of  the  mobility  of  lithium  under  homogeneous  conditions. 
Formula  (7.15)  or  its  refinement  (7.25)  could  then  be  applied  directly 
to  the  results. 

The  above  list  is  by  no  means  complete,  for  there  are  still  other  tech- 
niques available  for  measurement,  for  example  nuclear  and  paramagnetic 
resonance.  Enough  has  been  given  however  to  indicate  the  ^^dde  range 
of  phenomena  which  ion  pairing  in  solids  can  affect.  In  liquids,  only  A 
and  F  are  of  any  consequence.  It  is  important  to  realize  that  not  only  do 
these  phenomena  serve  as  tools  for  the  study  of  ion  pairing,  but  that  ion 
pairing,  when  properly  understood,  can  serve  as  a  tool  for  the  study  of 
the  phenomena  themselves. 

IX.    PAIRING   CALCULATIONS 

The  evaluation  of  fi  according  to  (7.14)  presents  somewhat  of  a  prob- 
lem because  the  integral  must  be  arrived  at  numerically.  Fortunately, 
the  literature  contains  tables  of  the  integral  in  what  amounts  to  di- 
mensionless  form.  The  transformation 

^  =  q'/KkTr  (9.1) 

is  introduced  and  then  fi  is  shown  to  be  given  by 

U  =  4Tr[q^/KkTf  Q(a)  (9.2) 

where 

a  =  q-/KkTa  (9.3) 

and  logio  Q((x)  is  tabulated  in  Table  III. 

In  a  specimen  in  which  the  numbers  of  donors  and  acceptors  are  im- 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  579 


Table  III 


a 

logio  Q{a) 

a 

logio  Q(oc) 

2.0 

—  CO 

18.0 

2.92 

2.5 

-0.728 

20.0 

3.59 

3.0 

-0.489 

25.0 

5.35 

4.0 

-0.260 

30.0 

7.19 

5.0 

-0.124 

35.0 

9.08 

6.0 

0.016 

40.0 

11.01 

7.0 

0.152 

45.0 

12.99 

8.0 

0.300 

50.0 

14.96 

9.0 

0.470 

55.0 

16.95 

10.0 

0.655 

60.0 

18.98 

12.0 

1.125 

65.0 

21.02 

14.0 

1.680 

70.0 

23.05 

16.0 

2.275 

75.0 

25.01 

80.0 

27.15 

equal*  (7.10)  may  be  written  as 


(iVx  -  P){Nr>  -  P) 


=  fi 


(9.4) 


where  Na  and  No  are,  respectively,  the  total  densities  of  acceptors  and 
donors. 

This  equation  has  the  following  solution  for  P/Nd  ,  the  fraction  of 
donors  paired. 


P_ 

No 


1 


=  o     1  + 


1       ,    Na' 

nNo     Nd, 


/i 


1  + 


1 


N, 


mo  +  ¥j-k   ^'-'^ 


Inspection  of  (9.5)  reveals  that  for  given  A^^  and  0,  P/Nd  is  a  decreasing 
function  of  increasing  No  . 

Very  often,  P/Nd  is  measured  in  an  experiment,  and  from  this  it  is 
desired  to  calculate  a,  the  distance  of  closest  approach.  For  such  pur- 
poses the  form  (9.5)  is  not  very  convenient.  In  fact  an  entirely  different 
procedure  is  to  be  preferred.  Suppose  P/Nd  is  denoted  by  6,  and  6  is 
substituted  into  (9.4),  into  which  (9.2)  has  been  inserted.  We  obtain 


logio  Q{(x)  =  logio 


d 


{Na  -  eND)(i  -  e) 


] 


(9.6) 


A  knowledge  of  6  thus  suffices  to  determine  logic  Q(a),  from  which,  in 
turn,  a  can  be  determined  by  interpolation  in  Table  III.  Then  (9.3)  can 
be  used  for  the  evaluation  of  a. 


*  This  is  a  situation  which  cannot  arise  in  liquids,  since  there,  charge  balance 
-.must  be  maintained  by  the  ions  themselves.  It  can  occur  when  the  ions  are  of 
Idifferent  charge,  but  then  things  are  complicated  by  the  formation  of  triplets, 
etc.,  in  addition  to  pairs. 


580 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


Table  IV 


r°K 

Q  (cm') 

r°K 

n  (cm3) 

too 

2.2     X  102 

400 

2.3    X  10-" 

150 

6.45  X  10-7 

500 

1.54  X  10-18 

200 

3.42  X  10-1' 

600 

3.0    X  10-19 

225 

1.28  X  10-12 

700 

1.03  X  10-19 

250 

8.79  X  10-" 

800 

4.7    X  10-2" 

300 

1.61  X  10-16 

Experiments  which  will  be  described  later  indicate  that  in  germanium, 
gallium  and  lithium  can  approach  as  close  as  1.7  X  10  cm,  Usmg  this 
value  of  a,  and  k  =  16,  g  =  4.77  X  10~^  statcoulombs,  the  values  of  Q 
appearing  in  Table  IV  were  computed  from  (9.2) 

With  these  values,  P/Nd  ,  the  fraction  of  donors  paired  can  be  com- 
puted from  (9.5)  as  a  function  of  temperature  and  N a  for  the  simplest 
case,  i.e.,  the  one  for  which  A''^  =  No  .  Fig.  15  contains  plots  showing 
these  dependences.  It  must  be  remembered  that  all  other  things  remain- 
ing the  same  P/Nd  will  be  greater  than  the  values  shown  in  Fig.  15 
when  Nd  <  Na  ' 

A  rather  important  integral  to  which  reference  shall  be  made  later  is 


x^  exp  {q/KkTx) 
•  1 


dx 


(9.7) 


The  integral  appearing  in  (7.14)  is  a  special  case  of  (9.7)  with  ri  =  a,  and 
Ti  =  h.  I(r2 ,  n)  has  been  evaluated  over  a  considerable  range.  To  facili- 
tate matters  the  transformation 


X  =  (q^'/KkT)  X 


(9.8) 


has  been  employed.  In  this  notation  n  and  ro  transform  to  pi  and  p2 ,  and 

I{r, ,  n)  =  {g'/KkTY  r  X'  exp  (1/X)  dX  =  {q/KkTYHp^ ,  pi)     (9.9) 

•'pi 

Figs.  16  and  17  contain  plots  of  i{p2 ,  0.05)  out  to  p2  =  5.  The  choice 
of  pi  equal  to  0.05  was  rather  unfortunate  since  for  k  =  16,  and  T  = 
300°K  it  corresponds  to  pi  =  2.5  X  10~^  cm.  Since  acceptors  like  gallium 
possess  values  in  respect  to  lithium  as  low  as  1.7  X  10~  cm  i(p2 ,  0.05) 
is  not  much  use  in  these  cases.  The  choice  0.05  was  made  before  the  ex- 
perimental data  on  gallium  was  available.  Below  we  shall  describe  a 
method  for  extending  t(p2 ,  pi)  to  cases  where  n  is  less  than  2.5  X  10 
cm. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  581 


Ga  IN  Ge 

a  =  i.7  X  to'^CM 
q=4.77  xio"'°  e.s.u. 

1    0 

100°K 

0.9 

150°H 

/ 

^ 

^ 

/ 

y^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

200°K. 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

// 

0.8 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

f 

/    / 

/ 

/ 

1 

i 

1 

'    / 

Q 

^    0.7 

1 

1 

f 

1 

/ 

/ 

1 

// 

/ 

/ 

250  / 

/ 

/ 

/ 

// 

|o.a 

o 
< 

q:   0.5 

LL 

0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
O.t 

1 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/  / 

/ 

/ 

/ 

300/ 

1 

/ 

// 

/ 

/ 

1 

/ 

/ 

/ 

r 

400/ 

500/ 

7, 

,-6  00 

/ 

/ 

1 

/ 

/ 

/ 

// 

700°K 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/, 

// 

1 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

J 

7 

/ 

/ 

y 

f 

/ 

/ 

J 

// 

0 

y 

y 

•^ 

\y 

^ 

/ 

■^ 

y 

i/ 

10 


10 


10"         10 


12 


10'^         10' 


10 


15 


10 


16 


10 


17 


10 


18 


N   IN  CM"^ 


10'9        10' 


Fig.  15  —  Fraction  of  ions  paired,  assuming  equal  densities  of  positive  and 
negative  ions,  calculated  as  a  function  of  temperature  and  concentration  from 
equation  (9.5).  The  situation  illustrated  might  apply  to  gallium  and  lithium  in 
germanium  in  view  of  the  choice  of  a  and  /c. 


Fig.  16  covers  the  range  from  pi  =  0.05  to  0.08  and  involves  a 
logarithmic  scale  because  of  the  sharp  variation  of  i  in  this  range.  (This 
points  up  the  sensitivity  of  the  degree  of  pairing  to  the  magnitude  of  a.) 
Fig.  17  extends  the  curve  to  pi  =  5.  When  pi  exceeds  5,  i{pi. ,  0.05)  can 
be  obtamed  from  the  formula 


i{pi ,  0.05)  =  3865  +  ^'  +  ^' 


(9.10) 


In  order  to  determine  i{pi ,  pi)  when  pi  ^  0.05,  the  following  formula 
may  be  used. 

i(p2 ,  Pi)  =  i(p2 ,  0.05)  -  2(pi ,  0.05)  (9.11) 


582 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


Finally  for  cases  in  which  pi  <  0.05,  Table  III  can  be  used.  Thus 

^(P2 ,  pi)  =  Qil/pi)  -  Q(20)  +  t(p2 ,  0.05)  (9.12) 

where  1/pi ,  and  20  are  a  values  in  Table  III. 


X.    THEORY   OF   RELAXATION 


In  Section  VIII  attention  was  drawn  to  the  fact  that  ion  pairing  in 
semiconductors  can  be  made  to  occur  slowly  enough  so  that  its  kinetics 
can  be  followed.  It  is  possible  to  characterize  these  kinetics  by  a  relaxa- 
tion time  r,  which  we  shall  endeavor  to  calculate  in  the  present  section. 


4000 


2000 


1000 
800 

600 
500 
400 

300 

In 
o 
d 

<5. 


100 
80 

60 

50 

40 

30 

20 


10 




^ ^ 


0.050 


0.055 


0.060 


0.065 
Pa 


0.070 


0.075 


0.080 


Fig.  16  —  Plot,  for  small  values  of  P2  of  i(p2  ,  0.05)  from  (9.9). 


CHEMICAL   INTEKACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  583 


3920 


3900 


^^3880 

O 

c£^3860 


3840 


3820 


3800 


/ 

y 

^ 

y 

0.5  1.0  1.5  2.0         2.5         3.0         3.5         4.0         4.5         5.0 

Fig.  17  —  Plot,  for  larger  values  of  p-i  ,  of  i(p2  ,  0.05)  from  (9.9). 


Suppose  a  system  is  first  maintained  at  a  temperature  high  enough  to 
prevent  pairing,  and  then,  at  an  instant  designated  as  zero  time,  is 
suddenly  chilled  to  a  temperature  at  which  pairing  takes  place.  One 
thereby  has  a  system  which  would  normally  contain  pairs  but  which 
finds  itself  with  donors  and  acceptors  which  are  uniformly  and  randomly 
distributed.  Since  the  donors  are  assumed  mobile,  a  process  ensues 
whereby  they  drift  toward  acceptors  until  an  equilibrium  is  established 
in  which  each  acceptor  develops  an  atmosphere  of  donors  with  density 
c(r),  given  by  (7.7). 

This  final  state  in  which  the  atmosphere  is  fully  developed  is  the  paired 
state  characteristic  of  the  lower  temperature.  The  relaxation  time  to  be 
defined  must  measure  the  interval  required  for  the  near  completion  of 
the  above  process. 

In  order  to  acquire  physical  feeling  for  the  phenomenon,  we  begin  with 
some  simple  considerations.  In  particular  a  system  will  be  dealt  with 
containing  equal  numbers  of  positive  and  negative  ions.  This  restriction 
can  be  lifted  later. 

Now,  to  a  first  approximation  the  pairing  phenomenon  may  be  re- 
garded as  a  trapping  process  in  which  mobile,  positive  donor  atoms  are 
captured  by  the  negative  acceptors.  Thus,  suppose  each  acceptor  is  imag- 
ined to  possess  a  sphere  of  influence  of  radius  R,  beyond  which  its  force 
field  may  be  considered  negligible,  and  inside  which  a  positive  ion  is  to  be 
regarded  as  captured.  This  picture  immediately  emphasizes  certain  sub- 
tleties which  require  discussion  before  further  progress  can  be  made. 

In  the  crudest  sense  one  might  reason  that  the  probability  of  an  en- 
counter between  a  positive  ion  and  a  negative  trap  would  depend  on  the 


584  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

product  of  the  densities  of  both.  These  densities  must  be  equal  because 
when  a  positive  ion  is  trapped  the  resulting  ion  pair  is  neutral  so  that  a 
trap  is  eliminated  simultaneously.  If  these  equal  densities  are  designated 
by  n,  we  arrive  at  the  second  order  rate  law 

-  f  =  '^^^  (^°-'> 

where  /ca  is  a  suitable  constant,  and  t  is  time. 

This  law  would  be  perfectly  valid  if  the  mean  free  path  of  a  mobile 
positive  ion  were  large  compared  to  the  distance  between  ions  and  the 
probability  of  sticking  on  a  first  encounter  were  small.  The  trapping 
cross-section  rather  than  the  movement  prior  to  trapping  would  de- 
termine the  trapping  rate.  In  this  case  the  rate  would  certainly  depend 
on  the  concentrations  of  both  the  traps  and  the  ions  being  trapped. 

On  the  other  hand,  in  our  case,  not  only  is  the  mean  free  path  of  a 
positive  ion  much  smaller  than  the  distance  between  ions,  but  the 
sticking  probability  is  high.  A  given  ion  must  diffuse  or  make  many  ran- 
dom jumps  before  encountering  a  trap  and  upon  doing  so  is  immediately 
captured.  Therefore,  the  rate  of  reaction  is  diffusion  controlled. 

Because  of  the  random  jump  process  a  given  mobile  ion  is  most  likely 
to  be  captured  by  its  nearest  neighbor  during  the  first  half  of  relaxation, 
and  relative  to  the  degree  of  advancement  of  the  trapping  process,  the 
density  of  traps  may  be  considered  constant.  This  leads  to  first  order 
kinetics  rather  than  second,*  i.e.,  to 

-  ^  =  /cin  (10.2) 

at 

where  n  is  the  density  of  untrapped  ions. 

By  definition  ki  is  the  fraction  of  ions  captured  in  unit  time,  i.e.,  the 
probability  that  one  ion  will  be  captured  per  unit  time.  Its  reciprocal 
must  be  the  average  lifetime  of  an  ion.  This  lifetime 

r  =  I  (10.3) 

ki 

shall  be  defined  as  the  relaxation  time  for  ion  pairing.  A  rough  calculation 
of  T  can  be  made  quickly.  Thus,  suppose  that  the  initial  concentrations 
of  donors  and  acceptors  are  equally  A^.  About  each  fixed  acceptor  can  be 
described  a  sphere  of  volume,  1/A^.  On  the  average  this  sphere  should  be 
occupied  by  one  donor  which  according  to  what  has  been  said  above,  will 
eventually  be  captured  by  the  acceptor  at  the  center.  In  the  mind,  all 

*  The  phenomenon  stems  from  the  fact  that  first  and  second  order  processes  are 
almost  indistinguishable  during  the  first  half  of  the  reaction,  but  also  from  the 
fact  that  the  diffusion  control  prevents  the  process  from  being  a  ti-ue  second  or- 
der one,  although  its  departure  from  second  order  may  be  small. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  585 

the  spheres  can  be  superposed  so  that  an  assembly  of  donors  A''  in  num- 
ber is  contained  in  the  volume  1/A^,  at  the  density  A'^  .  The  problem  of 
relaxation  is  then  the  problem  of  diffusion  of  these  donors  to  the  sink  of 
radius  R,  at  the  center  of  the  volume.  The  bounding  shell  of  the  sphere 
may  be  considered  impermeable,  thus  enforcing  the  condition  that  each 
donor  shall  be  trapped  by  its  nearest  neighbor.  Since  the  diffusion  prob- 
lem has  spherical  symmetry  the  radius,  r,  originating  at  the  center  of 
the  sink  at  the  origin  may  be  chosen  as  the  position  coordinate.  At  r  = 
R,  the  density,  p,  of  diffusant  may  be  considered  zero.  The  radius,  L,  of 
the  volume,  1/A^,  is  so  large  compared  to  R,  that  in  the  initial  stages  of 
diffusion  L  may  be  regarded  as  infinite. 

In  spherical  diffusion  to  a  sink  from  an  infinite  field,  a  true  steady 
state  is  possible,  and  this  steady  state  is  quickly  arrived  at  when  the 
radius,  R,  of  the  sink  is  small.  Under  this  condition  concentration  is 
described  by 

p  =  A  --  (10.4) 

r 

where  A  and  B  are  constants.  Furthermore  at  early  times  n  is  still  N, 
the  initial  concentration  at  r  =  L  ^  oo ,  so  that 

p(oo)  =  AT'  (10.5) 

In  addition  we  know  that 

p(R)  =  0  (10.6) 

These  boundary  conditions  suffice  to  determine  A  and  B  in  (10.4),  and 
yield 


P  =  N' 


1-^ 
r 


(10.7) 


Now  the  rate  of  capture  (—(dn/dt)  in  (10.2))  is  obviously  measured 
by  the  flux  of  ions  into  the  spherical  shell  of  area,  4tR',  which  marks  the 
boundary  of  the  sink.  This  flux  is  given  according  to  Fick's  law    by 

4.^R'D,  (^-^)       =  -  ^  (10.8) 

where  Do  is  the  diffusivity  of  the  donor.  Substituting  (10.7)  into  (10.8) 
yields 


r2  r-  -  C?n 


4:tN'RDo  =  -  4^  (10.9) 

dt 

During  the  initial  stages  of  trapping  the  right  side  of  (10.2)  may  be 


586  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

written  as  ^lA'',  i.e., 

hN^-'^  (10.10) 

Equating  the  left  sides  of  (10.9)  and  (10.10)  gives 

A;i  =  4:7rNRDo 
or 

^  =  r  =  A   A^r.  (10-11) 

It  now  remains  to  choose  a  value  for  the  capture  radius,  R.  A  reason- 
able guess  may  be  made  as  follows:  Around  each  acceptor  there  is  a 
coulomb  potential  well  of  depth 

V  =  -(IIkt  .  (10.12) 

Since  the  average  thermal  energy  is  kT,  it  seems  reasonable  to  regard  an 
ion  as  trapped  when  it  falls  to  a  depth  kT  in  this  well.  Thus,  inserting  kT 
on  the  left  of  (10.12)  and  R  for  r  on  the  right  leads  to 

R  =  qlKkT  (10.13) 


and  upon  substitution  in  (10.11)  we  obtain 

KkT 


(10.14) 


4xgWZ)o 

This  result,  obtained  by  crude  reasoning,  is  actually  quite  close  to  the 
more  rigorous  value  derived  below.  Furthermore,  the  above  derivation 
is  useful  in  providing  insight  into  the  physical  meaning  of  the  relaxation 
time. 

The  chief  difficulty  with  the  preceding  lies  in  the  arbitrary  choice  of 
72,  and  is  a  direct  consequence  of  the  long  range  nature  of  coulomb  forces. 
Another  difficulty  arises  because  the  distribution  of  donors  about  ac- 
ceptors is  eventually  specified  by  (7.7)  so  that  at  r  =  i^  =  q/KkT 

Be 


Since  this  slope  has  a  negative  value  the  trap  exhibits  some  aspects  of  a 
source  rather  than  a  sink  which  could  only  produce  a  positive  concen- 
tration gradient.  This  last  objection  will  not  be  serious  when  h  is  very 
small  since,  then  the  final  value  of  c{r)  beyond  r  =  q/KkT  =  R  will  be 
effectively  zero,  as  would  be  required  for  a  perfect  sink. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  587 

The  last  point  raises  still  another  question:  What  happens  when  the 
sink  is  not  perfect,  i.e.  where  the  equilibrium  state  does  not  involve 
complete  pairing? 

All  these  difficulties  can  be  removed  by  a  more  sophisticated  treatment 
of  the  diffusion  problem.  Thus,  retain  the  sphere  of  volume,  1/A^,  en- 
closing A^  donors  at  the  density  N^.  However,  the  equations  of  motion  of 
these  donors  are  altered  to  account  for  the  fact  that  besides  diffusing 
they  drift  in  the  field  of  the  acceptor  at  the  origin.  Thus  the  flux  density 
of  donors  will  be  given  by 


/*(r,o  =  -z).|^^+l^ 


(10.16) 


where  R  has  been  substituted  for  q/KkT.  Equation  (10.16)  is  obtained 
by  adding  to  the  diffusion  component, 

—  Lfo  — 
dr 

of  the  flux  density,  the  drift  component, 

Mog 

where  hq  is  the  mobility  of  a  donor  ion  and  —q/nr'  is  the  field  due  the 
acceptor  at  the  origin.  The  Einstein  relation^" 

Mo  -  qD,/hT  (10.17) 

has  also  been  used  to  replace  mo  with  Do  . 

The  spherical  shell  bounding  the  volume,  1/iV,  of  radius 

L  =  {^y  (10.18) 

is  regarded  as  impermeable,  so  we  obtain  the  boundary  condition 

J*{L,  t)  =  0.  (10.19) 

Furthermore  an  arbitrary  inner  boundary,  r  =  i?,  is  no  longer  defined 
but  use  is  made  of  the  real  boundary,  r  =  a,  i.e.,  the  distance  of  closest 
approach,  at  which  is  applied  the  condition 

J*ia,  0-0  (10.20) 

As  before,  the  initial  condition  may  be  expressed  as 

p  =  N-        t  =  0        a  <  r  <  L  (10.21) 


588  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


51 


The  continuity  equation,     in  spherical  coordinates  takes  the  form 

r^  dr  dt 

Substitution  of  (10.16)  into  (10.22)  gives,  finally, 

L  I  h  1^  +  7^  A  =    1  %  (10.23) 

r^dr\     dr  '^ j        Do  dt 

Equations  (10.23),  (10.21),  (10.20)  and  (10.19)  form  a  set  defining  a 
boundary  value  problem,  the  solution  of  which  is  p(7\  t),  from  which,  in 
turn,  J*(r,  t)  can  be  computed.  It  then  remains  to  compute  (dn/dt)  in 
(10.2)  from  J*.  The  former  is  not  simply  AttR^J*  (as  in  (10.8))  because 
now  J*  is  not  defined  unambiguously,  being  a  function  of  r.  J*{R,  t) 
might  be  employed  but  then  the  method  is  no  less  arbitrary  than  the 
simple  one  described  above. 

Fortunately,  nature  eliminates  the  dilemma.  It  is  a  peculiarity  of 
spherical  diffusion,  when  the  sink  radius  is  much  smaller  than  the  radius 
of  the  diffusion  field,  that  after  a  brief  transient  period,  47rr'J*(r),  except 
near  the  boundaries  of  the  field,  becomes  practically  independent  of  r, 
and  depends  only  on  t.  This  feature  is  elaborated  in  Appendix  C.  Since 
in  our  case  the  radius  of  the  field  is  of  order,  L,  and  the  effective  radius  of 
the  sink  is  of  order,  R,  and  L  »  R,  it  may  be  expected  that  this  phe- 
nomenon will  be  observed.  In  fact  its  existence  has  been  assumed  previ- 
ously in  the  derivation  of  (10.4). 

Under  such  conditions  it  does  not  matter  how  the  radius  of  the  sink 
is  defined  so  long  as  4:irR^  is  multiplied  by  J*{R)  and  not  the  value  of 
J*  at  some  other  location. 

The  boundary  value  problem,  (10.23),  (10.21),  (10.20),  (10.19)  is 
solved  in  Appendix  C,  and  it  is  shown  there  that  the  value  of  47rr"J*(?') 
obtained  after  the  transient  has  passed  is  closely  approximated  by 

4xrV*(r)  =  -^C^°  e-"'  (10.24) 


with 


where 

M 


^  .kTiN-M)  ,^) 

47r5W2/)o 


=  l/47r  [    r  exp  [q/KkTr]  dr  (10.26) 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  589 

The  close  connection  between  M  defined  by  (10.26)  and  h  defined  by 
(7.17)  is  apparent.  Thus  in  (7.17)  when  r  =  L,  exp[-47rrW/3]  is  e~\ 
and  for  larger  values  of  r  this  exponential  quickly  forces  the  convergence 
of  the  integral.  Therefore  the  values  of  h  and  M  will  be  almost  equal. 
This  is  not  surprising  since  they  are  meant  to  be  the  same  thing,  i.e., 
the  average  concentration,  c(oo),  of  donors  at  infinite  distance  in  the 
equilibrium  atmosphere  of  an  acceptor.  Both  quantities  are  computed 
so  as  to  conserve  charge  in  this  atmosphere. 

At  large  values  of  N,  M  proves  to  be  much  smaller  than  A^  so  that 
(10.25)  reduces  to  (10.14),  validating  the  crude  treatment,  for  r  in  (10.24) 
is  obviously  the  relaxation  time.  This  is  easily  seen  by  writing 

-^  =  -4,rrV*(r)  =  ^^«  .""^  (10.27) 

at  kkT 

from  which  one  derives  by  integration 

n  =  M  +  (AT  -  M)e~"''  (10.28) 

According  to  (10.28)  at  ^  =  0,  n  =  A",  the  correct  initial  density  for 
unpaired  ions.  At  ^  =  00,72  =  M,  also  the  correct  density,  i.e.,  the 
density  at  large  values  of  ?-,  when  equilibrium  is  achieved.  Obviously  r 
plays  the  role  of  the  relaxation  time,  since  by  differentiation  of  (10.28) 

din  -  M)  _{n-  M)  ^^^^9) 


dt  T 

which  is  to  be  compared  with  (10.2)  and  (10.3). 

Values  oiM  can  be  computed  using  formulas  (9.10),  (9.11),  and  (9.12) 
and  Figs.  16  and  17  since  the  integral  in  (10.26)  is  one  of  the  i  integrals 
I'lg.  18  shows  some  values  of  M,  computed  in  this  way  for  the  tempera- 
tures 206°,  225°,  250°,  and  300°K,  for  a  semiconductor  where  the  value 
of  a  =  2.5  X  10~^  cm,  k  =  16,  and  q  =  4.77  X  10"^"  statcoulombs.  The 
plots  are  of  M  versus  N.  Note  that  the  values  of  M  are  generally  much 
less  than  A",  the  disparity  increasing  with  lower  temperatures  and  larger 
A. 

It  is  also  possible  to  calculate  t  for  the  above  system  in  its  dependence 
upon  A"  and  T.  To  do  this  the  value  of  Z)o  must  be  known  as  a  function 
of  temperature.  Fuller  and  Severiens  have  measured  the  diffusivities  of 
lithium  in  germanium  and  silicon  down  to  about  500°K.  These  data  plot 
logarithmically  against  \/T  as  excellent  straight  lines.  In  Fig.  19,  we 
show  an  extrapolation  of  the  line  for  lithium  in  germanium  down  to  the 
neighborhood  of  200°K.  From  this  figure  it  is  possible  to  read  values  of 


590 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


10" 

300°  K 

a  =  2.5X10"8   CM 
>f=16 

^ 

^ 

4^16 

/^ 

/ 

X' 

,^ 

/ 



250 

1 

5 

LJ    J  /-lis 

/v 

U    ^Ql5 

/ 

^ 

z 

225 

2 

^ 

J  ,^14 

20  6°  K 

1015 

10' 


10 


16 


10" 
N    IN   CM"3 


10'' 


10 


19 


Fig.  18  —  Dependence  of  constant  M  defined  by  (10.26)  on  temperature  and 
concentration,  for  particular  values  of  a  and  k. 

Do  for  germanium  to  which  the  system  of  Fig.  18  refers,  since  k  has  been 
chosen  at  16. 

Using  Figs.  18  and  19,  Fig.  20  was  computed.  It  shows  t  plotted  in 
seconds  versus  A^  for  the  same  temperatures  appearing  in  Fig.  18.  These 
curves  show  that  at  values  of  N  as  low  as  10  cm"  relaxation  times  are 
short  enough  to  be  observable  down  to  200°K,  being  at  the  most  some 
50  hours  in  extent.  The  value  of  N  makes  a  big  difference.'  For  example 
at  200°K  the  relaxation  time  is  only  4  minutes  with  A''  =  10^^  cm~^ 
Presumably,  at  10  cm~  ,  relaxation  could  be  observed  down  to  much 
lower  temperatures. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  insofar  as  M  hardly  appears  in  r,  the 
latter  is  independent  of  the  distance  of  closest  approach,  a.  Since  a  is  to 
some  extent  empirical  this  is  a  fortunate  circumstance,  and  the  measure- 
ment of  T  may  provide  an  accurate  means  of  determining,  A^,  Do  ,  k,  or 
q,  whichever  parameter  is  regarded  as  unknown.  Furthermore  k  as  a 
macroscopic  parameter  has  real  meaning  in  r  since  the  forces  involved 
may  be  regarded  as  being  applied  over  the  many  lattice  parameters 
separating  the  di-ifting  donor  from  its  acceptor. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  591 

This  section  will  be  closed  by  indicating  how  the  restriction  to  systems 
containing  equal  numbers  of  donors  and  acceptors  might  be  lifted.  Thus, 
suppose  Na  exceeds  No  •  Then  there  will  be  Na  —  Nd  mobile  holes  main- 
taining charge  neutrality.  To  a  first  approximation  these  will  screen  the 
N^  —  Nd  uncompensated  acceptor  ions  so  that  the  No  donors  will  see 
effectively  only  A''!,  acceptors.  Thus  in  first  approximation  r  can  be  com- 
puted for  this  system  by  replacing  N  in  the  preceding  formulas  by  Nd  • 

Of  course  it  is  possible  that  there  will  be  a  further  effect.  Thus  the 
mobile  holes  will  probably  shield  some  of  the  compensated  acceptors  as 
well.  This  Avill  lead  to  a  further  (probably  small)  reduction  in  t,  over  and 
above  that  obtained  by  replacing  N  by  Nd  -  We  shall  not  go  into  this 
in  the  present  paper,  because  in  most  of  the  experiments  performed  Nd 
was  near  Na  -  In  the  few^  exceptions  the  crude  correction,  suggested 
above,  can  be  used. 

XI.    INVESTIGATION   OF   ION   PAIRING    BY    DIFFUSION 

Most  of  the  theoretical  tools  required  for  the  study  of  ion  pairing  have 
now  been  provided,  and  attention  will  be  turned  to  experiments  which 


10' 


-  7 


iO 


10-8 


Q 

0,0-9 
JJ 

UJ 
CL 


10- 


5   ,n-ii 


10" 


o  10' 
Q 


■12 


10" 


10" 


10-'5 


o.oot 


TEMPERATURE    IN    DEGREES    KELVIN 
600    500  400     350  300  250 


200 


0.002  0.003  0.004  0.005 

t/TEMPERATURE     IN    DEGREES    KELVIN 


Fig.  19  —  Diffusivitj'  of  lithium  in  germanium  extrapolated  from  the  data  of 
Fuller  and  Severiens. 


592 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


have  been  performed  in  this  field.  A  fairly  large  group  of  these  exist,  and 
it  remains  to  describe  them  in  detail.  We  shall  begin  with  the  study  of 
the  diffusion  of  lithium  in  p-type  germanium. 

At  the  outset  a  matter  having  to  do  with  the  diffusion  'potential  de- 
mands attention.  This  is  the  potential  which  arises,  for  example,  in 
p-type  material,  because  the  mobility  of  a  hole  is  so  much  greater  than 
the  mobility  of  a  lithium  ion.  In  consequence,  holes  diffuse  into  regions 
containing  high  concentrations  of  lithium  more  rapidly  than  lithium  ions 
can  diffuse  out  to  maintain  space  charge  neutrality.  As  a  result  such  re- 


o 

2 
O 

o 

ai 
in 


105 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s. 

3  =  2.5X10-8  CM 
/C=16 

10^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

N 

\ 

> 

\ 

V, 

\ 

s. 

103 

\ 

s 

\ 

206°K 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

<'' 

1 

\ 

102 

N 

\ 

\ 

\, 

\ 

\ 

s 

\ 

250°K 

\ 

10 

\ 

■\ 

N 

\ 

^ 

\,, 

^ 

00°K 

n-' 

\ 

\ 


10'5 


N    IN   CM-3 


10' 


Fig.  20  —  Relaxation  time  as  a  function  of  temperature  and  concentration  com- 
puted from  equation  (10.25)  using  the  data  of  Figs.  18  and  19. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  593 

gions  develop  positive  potentials  and  a  field  exists  tending  to  expel 
lithium.  This  causes  the  lithium  to  drift  as  well  as  diffuse  so  that  Fick's 
laW^  is  no  longer  valid. 

The  most  that  can  be  done  toward  the  elimination  of  diffusion  poten- 
tials is  to  minimize  them  so  that  no  local  space  charge  exists.  At  equilib- 
rium, this  corresponds  to  the  condition^^ 

Nd  -  Na  =  2ni  smh(qV/kT)  (11.1) 

where  V  is  the  local  electrostatic  potential.  It  is  always  permissible  to 
assume  that  fast  moving  electrons  and  holes  are  in  equilibrium  relative 
to  diffusing  ions.  If  a  material  which  is  p-type  everywhere  is  being  con- 
sidered, (11.1)  can  be  simplified  to 

Na  -  Nj,  =  Ui  exp  [-qV/kT]  (11.2) 

In  Appendix  D  it  is  proved  that  (11.2)  will  be  valid  everywhere  within 
a  region  where  N a  is  constant  and  greater  than  Nd  ,  provided  that  No 
does  not  fluctuate  through  ranges  of  the  order  Na  in  a  distance  less  than 

(11.3) 

Under  most  conditions  of  experiment  I  will  be  of  the  order  of  10~  cm. 
Unfortunately  many  of  the  experiments  described  in  this  section  (par- 
ticularly those  performed  at  25°C.)  involve  diffusion  layers  as  thin  as 
10"^  cm.  As  a  result  space  charge  will  exist  and  the  diffusion  potential 
will  not  always  be  minimized.  Even  if  it  is  minimized  so  that  (11.2)  is 
satisfied  the  residual  field  will  still  aid  diffusion  and  lead  to  higher  ap- 
parent diffusivities.  Therefore  the  effect  cannot  be  ignored  even  when 
minimization  has  been  achieved. 

In  the  absence  of  space  charge  the  drift  component  of  flux  density 
due  to  the  field  is  easily  computed.  It  will  be  given  by 

-M  ^  No  (11.4) 

dx 


According  to  (11.2) 

_dV  _  kT  dNp 

dx   ~  q{NA  -  Nd)    dx 
so  that  (11.4)  becomes 

nkT  /       Nd      \  ONd  ^  _fiokT  /     _  _P  \  /       Nd       \  dNp 
^'a  -  No)    dx  q     \         Nd)  \Na  -  Nd)    dx 

Nd        \  dNp 
-  Nd)    dx 


(11.5) 


(ii.rO 


594  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

where  (7.15)  and  the  Emstein  relation  have  been  used,  and  Do  is  the 
diffusivity  in  the  absence  of  pairing. 

P/Nd  in  (11.6)  can  be  evaluated  using  (9.5)  so  that  the  coefficient  pre- 
ceding (dNo/dx)  contains  No  as  the  only  variable. 

In  Appendix  B  it  is  shown  that  ion  pairing  itself  leads  to  severe  de- 
partures from  Fick's  law.*^  In  fact  the  diffusion  flux  density  in  the  pres- 
ence of  pairing  is  given  by 


-2  l^"  -  ^-  +  5) 
l/i(^°  -  iV.  -  i)  + 


'-f°  (11.7) 

dx 


Here  again  the  diffusivity  is  specified  by  the  factors  preceding  (dNo/dx) 
and,  though  variable,  depends  only  on  No  ,  the  local  concentration  of 
diffusant.  Adding  the  two  coefficients  appearing  in  (11.6)  and  (11.7)  the 
value  of  the  diffusivity,  D,  in  the  presence  of  both  pairing  and  diffusion 
potential  is  obtained.  Thus 


D-^\l  + 


(11.8) 


It  is  obvious  from  (11.8)  that  even  in  the  absence  of  space  charge  D  is 
an  extremely  complicated  function  of  Nd  ,  and  will  be  much  more  com- 
plex if  space  charge  needs  to  be  considered.  When  Nd  «  A^.i  (11.8)  re- 
duces to 


Comparison  with  equation  (B15)  shows  that  when  (11.8)  is  true  (i.e., 
in  the  absence  of  space  charge)  the  diffusion  potential  may  be  ignored 
for  Nd  <3C  Na  •  Comparison  of  (B14)  with  (B15)  shows  how  much  D  can 
vary  with  Nd  when  ion  pairing  occurs. 

The  proper  study  of  diffusion  in  the  presence  of  ion  pairing  should  be 
augmented  by  a  mathematical  analysis,  accounting  for  the  concentra- 
tion dependent  diffusivity.  Since  this  dependence  is  complicated  the 
resulting  boundary  value  problem  must  be  solved  numerically,  and  this 


CHEMICAL   INTEKACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  595 

represents  a  formidable  task.  Although  work  along  these  lines  is  being 
done  we  shall  content  ourselves,  in  this  article,  with  a  less  quantitative 
approach.  The  following  plan  has  been  followed. 

A  rectangular  wafer  of  semiconductor  uniformly  doped  with  ac- 
ceptor to  the  level,  Na  ,  is  uniformly  saturated  with  lithium  to  a  level, 
Nd  ,  slightly  less  than  Na  •  Thus,  the  resulting  specimen  is  well  compen- 
sated but  not  converted  to  n-type.  Lithium  is  then  allowed  to  diffuse 
out  of  the  specimen,  and  because  of  the  thinness  of  the  wafer,  this 
process  may  be  regarded  as  plane-parallel  diffusion  normal  to  its  large 
surfaces.  Low  resistivity  p-type  layers  therefore  develop  near  the  sur- 
faces. If  the  thin  ends  of  the  wafer  are  put  in  contact  with  a  source  of 
current,  current  will  flow  parallel  to  its  axis,  so  that  the  equipotential 
surfaces  will  be  planes  normal  to  this  axis.  The  flow  of  current  will  be 
one  dimensional  because  the  inhomogeneity  in  lithium  distribution  oc- 
curs in  the  direction  normal  to  its  flow  (see  Fig.  21). 

If  two  probe  points  are  placed  at  a  fixed  distance  apart  on  the  broad 
surface  of  the  wafer  (see  Fig.  21),  then  the  conductance  measured  be- 
tween them  is  a  reflection  of  the  total  number  of  carriers  in  the  low 
resistivity  layers,  i.e.,  a  measure  of  the  total  amount  of  lithium  which 
has  diffused  out.  A  more  detailed  connection  between  this  conductance 
and  diffusivity  is  derived  in  Appendix  E.  For  the  moment,  however, 
attention  will  be  confined  to  the  description  of  the  general  plan  of  ex- 
periment. 

According  to  the  formulas  derived  in  the  early  parts  of  this  section, 
and  also  to  (B14)  and  (B15),  the  diffusivity  is  something  like  Do/2  in  the 


CURRENT 


CURRENT, 
(I) 


Fig.  21  —  Diagram  illustrating  measurement  of  dependence  of  diffusivity  on 
ion  pairing  (see  Section  XI). 


596  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

bulk  of  the  wafer  where  Nd  almost  equals  Na  ,  but  is  as  low  as  Do/(l  + 
^Na)  near  the  surface  where  Nd  «  A''^  .  If  Q,Na  is  very  much  larger 
than  unity  as  it  will  be  under  conditions  where  appreciable  pairing  oc- 
curs, the  diffusivity  will,  therefore,  be  much  smaller  near  the  surface 
than  at  the  high  end  of  the  diffusion  cui-ve,  deeper  within  the  specimen. 
The  surface  will  then  offer  resistance  to  diffusion,  and  it  may  be  expected 
that  the  measured  value  of  the  diffusivity  Avill  correspond  more  closely 
to  the  slow  process  near  the  surface  rather  than  to  the  faster  process 
occurring  deeper  in  the  semiconductor.  Of  course  this  cannot  be  entirely 
true  because  the  resistance  at  the  surface  coupled  with  the  lack  of  re- 
sistance inside  the  wafer  will  tend  to  steepen  the  concentration  gradient 
near  the  surface.  This  wdll  give  the  impression  of  a  diffusivity  somewhat 
higher  than  the  one  corresponding  to  the  surface. 

If  the  current  flowing  in  the  wafer  under  the  conditions  of  measure- 
ment is  I,  and  the  potential  measured  between  the  points  is  V,  then  the 
conductance  between  the  points  is 

S  =  I/V.  (11.10) 

In  Appendix  E  it  is  shown  (under  the  assumption  that  D  is  constant) 
that 

S/S.  =  1  +  ?:?«|v^  (1^)  V^  (lUl) 

where  So  is  the  conductance  after  the  specimen  is  saturated  with 
lithium,  but  before  any  lithium  has  diffused  out,  and  S^  is  the  con- 
ductance before  lithium  has  been  added.  Na  is  the  uniform  concentration 
of  acceptor,  and  Nd°  is  the  initial  uniform  concentration  of  lithium,  while 
d  is  the  thickness  of  the  wafer.  ??  is  a  correction  factor  which  arises  be- 
cause the  mobility  of  holes  varies  from  point  to  point  in  the  wafer,  as 
the  density  of  lithium  varies.  There  are  two  extreme  types  of  variation. 
The  first  takes  place  in  a  specimen  in  which,  at  room  temperature 
(where  the  conductance  measurement  is  made)  ion  pairing  is  complete. 
Then  the  local  density  of  impurity  scatterers  will  be  A''^  —  Nd  ■  At 
the  other  extreme  no  ion  pairing  occurs,  and  the  density  of  scatterers  is 

Na  +  Nd. 

The  nature  of  t>  depends  on  how  much  pairing  is  involved.  In  Fig.  22  d^ 
has  been  evaluated  in  its  dependence  on  Nd°  for  the  extreme  cases  men- 
tioned. Furthermore  it  has  been  assumed  then  that  Nd  is  given  by  a 
Fick's  law  solution  of  the  diffusion  problem,  and  that  diffusion  begins  in 
a  nearly  compensated  specimen. 

The  first  thing  to  notice  is  that  ??  is  not  very  different  from  unity  in 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  597 


1.7 


1.6 


.5  - 


1.4 


1.3 


1.2 


1.  1 


1.0 


0.9 


0.8 


0.7 


10 


16 


y-00 

-r  r   I 

Fr 

t  Ai 

1         yUI,IMCIl^S;v.ii^>3^.'>, 

t        Jo 

//(n)/     erf  c  i  di 

^0 

y 

/ 

^ 

y 

^ 

y 

^ 

^^AIRIN 

G 

-"^ 



NON    PAIklNfc. 

^ 

^ 

10 


17 


5      6 


10 


18 


Nd  in  cm' 


Fig.  22  —  Plots  of  correction  factor  ??,  required  to  compensate  for  the  depend- 
ence of  hole  mobility  on  the  density  of  scattering  centers  along  a  diffusion  curve. 
I?  is  plotted  against  the  initial  density  of  donor  and  is  shown  for  the  two  extreme 
cases  of  pairing  and  no  pairing. 


either  extreme,  and  therefore  closer  to  unity  in  some  intermediate  situ- 
ation. In  any  event  the  correct  value  of  ??  can  be  read  from  Fig.  22  if  the 
experiments  involve  either  extreme  at  the  measurement  temperature. 
This  has,  in  fact,  been  approximately  the  case  in  our  experiments,  in 
which  pairing  is  almost  complete  at  the  temperature  where  conduc- 
tances have  been  measured. 

According  to  (11.11)  a  plot  of  S/2o  against  's/l  should  be  a  straight 
line  of  slope 

2.256^V^/2«>A^D°\ 


S  = 


d 


\:eoNa 


(11.12) 


f  Measurement  of  S  therefore  affords  a  measure  oi  D.  Of  course  the  ap- 

!  parent  D  obtained  in  this  manner  can  never  represent  anything  beyond 

'  some  average  quantity  having  the  general  significance  of  a  diffusi\-ity. 

This  follows  from  the  previous  discussion  concerning  the  non-constancy 


598  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

of  D.  The  only  exception  to  this  statement  occurs  in  connection  with  high 
temperature  experiments  (above  200°C.)  where  both  pairing  and  the 
diffusion  potential  are  of  little  consequence.  The  mere  fact  that  2/2o 
plots  as  a  straight  line  against  -s/t  is  not  evidence  for  the  constancy  of 
D.  In  Appendix  E  it  is  shown  that  a  straight  line  will  result,  even  when 
ion  pairing  is  important,  provided  that  the  diffusion  potential  is  based 
on  the  no-space- charge  condition,  i.e.  provided  that  D  varies  only 
through  its  dependence  on  Nd  • 

On  the  other  hand,  the  last  statement  implies  that  the  existence  of  a 
straight  line  relationship  is  evidence  that  the  diffusion  potential  has  at 
least  been  minimized. 

The  most  careful  experiments  were  performed  in  germanium  doped  to 
various  levels  with  gallium,  indium,  and  zinc  as  acceptors.  The  ger- 
manium specimens  were  cut  in  the  form  of  rectangular  wafers  of  ap- 
proximate dimensions  (1.25  cm  X  0.40  cm  X  0.15  cm).  Fresh  lithium 
filings,  were  evenly  and  densely  spread  on  one  surface  of  the  wafer,  and 
alloyed  to  the  germanium  by  heating  for  30  seconds  at  530°C  in  an  at- 
mosphere of  dry  flowing  helium.  Then  the  other  surface  was  subjected 
to  similar  treatment. 

After  this  the  specimen  was  sealed  in  an  evacuated  pyrex  tube  and 
heated  at  a  predetermined  temperature  for  a  predetermined  period  of 
time.  The  temperature  was  chosen,  according  to  Fig.  5,  so  that  the 
saturated  specimen  would  still  be  p-type  and  just  barely  short  of  being 
fully  compensated.  Also  attention  was  paid  to  the  problem  of  avoiding 
precipitation  on  cooling.  The  time  of  saturation  was  determined  from  an 
extrapolation  of  the  known  lithium  diffusion  data,  in  germanium,  of 
Fuller  and  Severiens^^  which  is  plotted  in  Figure  19  for  the  range  ex- 
tending from  about  0°  to  300°C. 

After  saturation  the  sealed  tube  was  dropped  into  water  and  cooled,  t 
It  was  opened  and  the  wafer  ground  on  both  sides,  first  with  No.  600  ' 
Aloxite  paper,  and  then  with  M  303)^  American  Optical  corundum 
abrasive  paper.  The  final  thicknesses  of  the  specimens  ranged  from  0.025  ' 
to  0.075  cm,  the  thinnest  samples  being  used  for  the  runs  at  the  lowest 
temperature. 

If  the  specimen  is  quite  thin  and  highly  compensated  it  is  possible  in 
principle  to  measure  very  small  diffusivities  (as  low  as  10~     cm  /sec)  i 
within  a  period  of  several  hours.  This  is  so  because  the  low  resistivity 
layer  formed  near  the  surface,  although  thin,  will  carry  a  finite  share  of 
the  current  in  thin  compensated  specimens.  On  the  other  hand,  additional 

o 

difficulties  arise.  Diffusion  layers  as  small  as  100 A  may  be  involved.  If 
the  surface  is  microscopically  rough,  diffusion  will  not  be  plane-parallel; 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  599 

and  the  measured  diffusivity  will  appear  larger  than  the  real  diffusivity. 
This  condition  can  be  partially  corrected  by  etching  the  surface  chemi- 
cally until  it  is  fairly  smooth. 

When  dealing  with  such  thin  layers,  the  no-space-charge  assumption 
becomes  invalid  and  the  diffusion  potential  ought  really  to  be  considered. 
Considering  all  the  difficulties,  i.e.,  concentration  dependence  of  diffusion 
coefficient,  possible  existence  of  space  charge,  and  roughness  of  surface, 
it  is  apparent  that  only  qualitative  effects  are  to  be  looked  for  in  the  dif- 
fusivities  which  have  been  measured. 

The  most  that  can  be  predicted  is  that  for  specimens  containing  a 
given  amount  of  acceptor,  the  measured  D  (some  average  quantity) 
should  be  less  than  Do ,  the  disparity  increasing  with  decreasing  tem- 
perature. At  high  temperatures  D  should  converge  on  Do  .  Furthermore, 
at  a  given  temperature  D  should  decrease  with  an  increase  in  concen- 
tration of  acceptor.  These  tendencies  are  in  line  with  the  idea  that  reduc- 
tion of  temperature  or  increase  of  doping  leads  to  an  increase  in  pairing. 

Runs  Avere  carried  out  on  specimens  etched  with  Superoxol^^  at  the 
temperatures  25°,  100°,  and  200°C.  In  the  25°C  run  the  wafer  was  allowed 
to  remain  in  the  measuring  apparatus  under  the  two  probe  points  in  air, 
and  S  was  measured  from  time  to  time.  At  100°C  the  specimen  was 
immersed  in  glycerine  containing  a  few  drops  of  HCl,  the  temperature 
of  the  bath  being  controlled.  Periodic  removal  from  the  bath  facilitated 
the  measurement  of  2.  At  200°C  glycerine  was  again  used  as  a  sink  for 
lithium,  the  sample  being  removed  periodically  for  measurement. 

Fig.  23  illustrates  some  typical  plots  of  2/So  versus  \/t.  They  are 
all  satisfactorily  straight.  Fig.  24  shows  a  plot  of  log  Do  against  \/T, 
extrapolated  from  the  data  of  Fuller  and  Severiens.^^  In  this  illustration, 
Aalues  of  log  D  (obtained  from  the  above  measurements  by  determining 
the  slopes  S  and  employing  (11.12))  are  also  plotted  at  the  temperatures 
of  diffusion.  For  ■&  the  case  of  complete  pairing  was  assumed. 

The  first  thing  to  note  is  that  the  points  for  log  D  all  lie  below  log  Do 
except  at  200°C  and  satisfy  the  qualitative  requirement  outlined  above.* 
Moreover  they  drop  further  below  log  Do  as  the  temperature  is  reduced, 
^\■hile  at  200°C  they  have  almost  converged  on  log  Do . 

The  results  for  zinc  are  particularly  interesting.  Zinc  is  supposed  to 
have  a  double  negative  charge  in  germanium.  Hence  we  would  expect 
very  intense  pairing  to  occur.  This  is  indicated  in  the  difi'usion  data 
where  the  sample  containing  zinc  at  the  rather  low  level,  A^^    =   2.7 


*  The  long  range  nature  of  the  interaction  forces  becomes  evident  when  one 
considers  that  the  diffusivities  are  being  altered  by  impurity  (acceptor)  concen- 
trations of  the  order  of  1  part  per  million. 


I 


600 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


UJ 

D 
O 


o 
o 

tr 
o 


4.5 


4.0 


3.5 


3.0 


2.5 


MM 


2.0 


1.5 


1.0 


/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

200°  c/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

A 

/ 

f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/zb"  c 

/ 

/ 

/ 

7 

/ 

/ 

// 

/ 

/ 

1.14 


1.12 


1.10 


1.08 


1.06 


> 

a. 

D 
O 


o 

LL 


WW 


1.04 


1.02 


1.00 


10        15        20       25        30        35 
1(/t  IN  SECONDS 


40       45 


50 


55 


Fig.  23  —  Curves  illustrating  the  observed  linear  dependence  of  S/2o  on  the  \/~t. 

X  10^^  cm~',  shows  a  large  reduction  in  diffusivity  even  at  temperatures 
as  high  as  200°C. 

The  difficulties  discussed  in  this  section  serve  to  emphasize  the  im- 
portance of  a  direct  transport  experiment  in  which  lithium  atoms  nni- 
jormlij  distributed  throughout  germanium  or  silicon,  uniformly  doped 
with  acceptor,  are  caused  to  migrate  by  an  electric  field,  and  their 
mobilities  measured.  Because  of  the  uniform  dispersion  of  solutes  the 
mobility  will  be  constant  everywhere.  Furthermore  no  diffusion  poten- 
tial will  be  involved,  and  also  the  refined  formula  (7.25)  can  be  applied. 
There  are,  however,  many  difficulties  associated  with  the  performance 
of  this  type  of  measurement. 

In  closing  it  may  be  mentioned  that  a  few  much  less  careful  experi- 
ments of  the  kind  described  here  have  been  performed  in  boron-doped 
silicon.  The  results  indicate  ion  pairing  in  a  qualitative  way  but  more 
definite  experiments  are  needed. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  601 

XII.    INVESTIGATION  OF  ION  PAIRING  BY  ITS  EFFECT  ON  CARRIER  MOBILITY 

II  In  Section  VIII  attention  was  called  to  the  fact  that  ion  pairing  should 
influence  the  mobility  of  holes,  because  each  pair  formed,  reduces  the 
number  of  charged  impurities  by  two.  Thus,  a  specimen  previously  doped 
with  acceptor,  might,  if  sufficient  lithium  is  added,  exhibit  an  increase  in 
hole  mobility,  even  though  the  addition  of  lithium  implies  the  addition 
of  more  impurities.  This  effect  has  been  observed  in  connection  with  the 
Hall  mobility  of  holes  in  germanium. 

Two  specimens  of  germanium  were  cut  from  adjacent  positions  in  a 
single  crystal  doped  with  gallium  to  the  level  3  X  10^^  cm~l  One  of  these 
iwas  saturated  with  lithium  through  application  of  the  same  procedure 


TEMPERATURE  IN   °C 
200  100 


25 

r 


1.4 


1.6 


1.8         2.0 


2.2        2.4         2.6         2.S         3.0         3.2 


Y  X  10^ 


^3.4 


Fig.  24  —  Plot  of  diffusivity  of  lithium  in  undoped  germanium  as  a  function 
of  temperature  —  also  showing  points  for  apparent  diffusivities  of  lithium  in 
variously  doped  specimens. 


602 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


employed  in  section  V.  Hall  mobilities  of  the  two  specimens  were  meas- 
ured^^  down  to  below  10°K.  Cooling  was  carried  out  slowly  to  permit  as 
much  relaxation  into  the  paired  state  as  possible  (see  Section  X).  Li 
Fig.  25  plots  of  the  Hall  mobilities  versus  temperature  of  both  specimens 
are  presented.  Curve  A  is  for  the  sample  containing  2.8  X  lO"  cm~* 
lithium.  It  therefore  contained  about  5.8  X  10^^  cm~^  total  impurities 
as  compared  to  the  control  sample  whose  curve  is  shown  as  B  in  Figin-e 


25  and  which  contained  only  3  X  10     cm"   impurities. 

The  lithium  doped  bridge  exhibits  by  far  the  higher  Hall  mobility  for 
holes  (except  at  very  low  temperatures  where  poorly  understood  phe- 
nomena occur).  In  fact  at  40°K  the  sample  containing  lithium  shows  a 
hole  mobility  16  times  greater  than  that  of  the  control  at  the  correspond- 
ing temperature.  Rough  analysis  of  the  relative  mobilities  at  T  =  100°K 
indicate  '^2  X  10  cm  scattermg  centers  in  the  control  sample  and  5 
X  10    cm"  scattering  centers  in  the  sample  containing  pairs. 

This  experiment  has  been  repeated  with  other  specimens  doped  to 
different  levels  with  gallium  and  even  with  other  acceptors,  and  leaves 
no  doubt  that  a  mechanism  which  is  most  reasonably  assumed  to  be 
pairing,  is  removing  charged  impurities  from  the  crystal. 

The  phenomenon  we  have  just  described  suggests  an  excellent  method 
for  testing  the  ion  pairing  formula  derived  in  Sections  VII  and  XI,  for  it 


10' 


Q 

Z 

o 
u 


o 
> 

DC 

liJ 
a 


cvj 
5  10 
u 


CD 
O 

5 


< 

X 


10' 


- 

i 

r 

'^'^-^ 

■v.^ 

-    1 

^^ 

^^ 

-  1 

\. 

X 

s_ 

/ 

^ 

-^ 

_^ 

^ 

N) 

r 

/ 

"*" 

"^ 

/ 

/ 

: 

40  80  120  160        200         240        280 

TEMPERATURE    IN    DEGREES    KELVIN 


320 


Fig.  25  —  Plot  of  Hall  mobility  as  a  function  of  temperature  for  germanium 
containing  3  X  10^'  cm"'  gallium.  Curve  A  is  for  a  sample  containing  2.8  X  10''' 
cm~^  lithium. 


CHEMICAL  INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  603 

enables  us  to  determine  at  what  temperature,  at  given  values  of  Na 
and  Nd  ,  P/Nd  is  exactly  0.5.  Thus  consider  the  fact  that,  all  other  things 
being  equal,  the  control  bridge  and  the  one  containing  added  lithium 
will  exhibit  equal  Hall  mobilities  at  a  given  temperature  when  the  con- 
centrations of  charged  impurities  are  identical  in  both  of  them.  Now  the 
concentration  of  such  impurities  in  the  control  is  simply  Na  •  The  con- 
centration in  the  bridge  containing  lithium  is 

Na  +  No-  2P  (12.1) 

The  quantity  2P  is  removed  from  Na  +  Nd  ,  because  each  time  a  pair 
forms  two  charged  scatterers  are  eliminated.  The  condition  that  the 
;  .scattering  densities  in  both  bridges  be  equal  is  then  simply 

I  Na  =  NA-\-Nn-2P 

or 

■^  =  0.5  (12.2) 

N  D 

i  Therefore  if  plots  of  Hall  mobilities  versus  temperature  such  as  those 
I  appearing  in  Figure  25  are  continued  until  they  cross,  the  temperature 
I  of  crossing  marks  the  point  at  which  P/Nd  is  0.5. 

In  Fig.  26  typical  crossings  of  this  kind  are  shown.  They  are  for  two 

I  ••17 

!  different  gallium  doped  germanium  crystals,  one  containing  3  X  10 
cm~^  gallium  and  the  other  9  X  10^^  cm~^.  The  curves  for  the  controls 
and  lithium  saturated  samples  in  each  case  are  shown  as  plots  of  the 
logarithm  of  Hall  mobility  against  logarithm  of  absolute  temperature. 

:  The  lines  plotted  in  this  manner  are  straight.  The  lithium  content  of 
1he  bridge  containing  9  X  10^^  cm~^  gallium  was  6.1  X  10  cm~  while 
that  in  the  bridge  with  3  X  10^^  cm"^  gallium  was  2.8  X  10^^  cm~l  All 

,  of  these  concentrations  were  obtained  from  Hall  coefficient  measurements 

<  m  the  controls  and  the  lithium  doped  specimens. 

As  the  temperature  is  increased  the  mobilities  of  the  samples  with 
lithium  are  reduced  and  approach  the  mobilities  of  the  controls.  This 
happens  because  pairs  dissociate  and  more  charged  impurities  appear. 
1  inally  when  P/Nd  is  exactly  0.5  the  curves  cross.  In  Fig.  27  we  notice 
that  mobility  measurements  were  not  performed  right  up  to  the  cross 
point,  but  that  the  straight  lines  have  been  extrapolated.  This  procedure 
was  adopted  of  necessity,  because  of  the  high  diffusivity  of  lithium.  Thus, 
Inference  to  Fig.  5  shows  that  the  solubility  in  doped  germanium  de- 

i  (leases  to  a  minimum  as  the  temperature  is  raised  from  room  tempera- 
t  ure,  and  there  is  danger  of  precipitation.  For  this  reason  the  measure- 


604 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


a 

z 
o 
o 

Ud 

I/) 

I 


o 
> 

a. 
Ill 
a. 

2 
o 


ffl 
o 

5 


Ga 

CONTROL        \ 
=  9X10'^CM-A 

k 

2600 

^^ 

i 

a, CALCULATED 

\ 

^        CROSS    POINT 

A     =1.73X10-8CM 

2000 

\ 

\L              ' 

\ 

\ 

1500 

\  V 

\    \ 

\ 

1000 

CONTROL    ^ 
Ga  =  3x  10"CM" 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

A 

900 

H 

w         \ 

\       \ 

800 
700 

600 

\     \ 

V 

V 

A 

\ 

a,  =  1.71xlO-8CM--A. 

500 

1   w 

100 


150  ?00  250       300  400 

TEMPERATURE    IN     DEGREES    KELVIN 


500      600 


Fig.  26  —  Illustration  of  cross  over  phenomenon  for  germanium  samples  con- 
taining gallium.  Sample  314  contains  9  X  10^*  cm"^  gallium  and  sample  302  con- 
tains 3  X  10'^  cm"^  Samples  316  and  301  are  the  corresponding  samples  to  which 
lithium  has  been  added. 


ments  were  not  carried  to  high  temperatures.*  In  addition  the  value 
of  the  Hall  coefficient  was  carefully  checked  at  each  temperature  to  see 


if  it  had  changed.  Since  the  reciprocal  of  the  Hall  coefficient  measures 
the  carrier  density  any  reduction  in  its  value  would  have  implied  loss  of 
compensation,  or  precipitation  of  lithium. 

Over  the  measured  points  no  appreciable  variation  of  Hall  coefficient 
was  noted.  Fortunately,  the  pairing  relaxation  time  is  quite  small  (less 
than  a  second)  at  the  high  temperatures  involved  so  that  it  wasn't 
necessaiy  to  hold  the  samples  at  these  temperatures  for  long  periods  in 
order  to  achieve  pairing  equilibrium.  The  times  involved  were  too  short 
for  the  occurrence  of  phase  equilibrium  characterized  by  precipitation. 

The  above  discussion  points  up  some  of  the  care  that  must  be  taken 
to  obtain  reliable  measurements.  Another  factor  which  enters  the  pic- 
ture is  the  possible  existence  of  a  precipitate  in  the  lithium  doped  bridge. 

*  In  boron-doped  germanium  the  cross-over  was  actually  observed  —  no  extra- 
polation having  been  necessary,  because  the  temperature  of  intersection  was  suffi- 
ciently low. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  605 

During  the  course  of  our  experiments  it  was  discovered  that  precipitates 
have  a  profound  effect  on  carrier  mobility,  reducing  it  so  severely,  that 
the  mobility  of  the  lithium  doped  bridge  may  never  even  rise  above  that 
of  the  control.  Great  care  must  be  exercised  in  the  preparation  of  suitable 
bridges  to  avoid  the  presence  of  precipitated  lithium.  Thus  it  may  be 
necessary  to  saturate  the  bridge  at  a  very  low  temperature  (see  Section 
IV,  Figure  5)  so  that  it  is  somewhat  undersaturated  at  room  tempera- 
ture. This  means  that  diffusion  periods  of  weeks  may  be  involved. 

In  Fig.  26  the  sample  with  Na  =  9  X  lO''  cm~^  and  No  =  6.1  X  lO'* 
cm~^  has  P/Nd  =  0.5  at  348°K,  while  the  sample  with  AT^  =  3  x  lO" 
cm"*  and  No  =  2.8  X  10^^  cm~*  is  half-paired  at  440°K.  This  is  to  be 
expected,  the  more  heavily  doped  specimen  remaining  paired  up  to 
higher  temperatures.  Using  (9.6)  and  (9.3)  it  is  possible  to  calculate  a, 
the  distance  of  closest  approach  of  a  gallium  and  lithium  ion,  from  each 
of  the  measured  cross  points. 

Thus  in  (9.6)  we  set  6  =  0.5,  and  Na  ,  No  and  T  to  correspond  to  each 
of  the  cases  described.  Having  logio  Q((x),  a  can  be  determined  by  in- 
terpolation in  Table  III  and  a  then  determined  from  (9.3).  Of  course  k 
is  taken  to  be  16.  Carrying  through  this  procedure  in  connection  with 
Fig.  26  leads  to  the  satisfying  result  that  a  =  1.71  X  10~^  cm  for  the 
heavily  doped  sample  and  1.73  X  10"*  cm  for  the  lightly  doped  one. 
The  values  of  Q,  appearing  in  Table  IV  based  on  a  =  1.7  X  10"  cm  there- 
fore correspond  to  gallium. 

Not  only  is  this  result  satisfying  because  the  two  a's  agree  so  well 
even  though  the  samples  involved  were  so  different  in  constitution,  but 
also  because  it  is  expected  on  the  basis  of  the  addition  of  known  particle 
radii.  Thus  according  to  Pauling^^  the  tetrahedral  covalent  radius  of 
gallium  is  1.26  X  10~*  cm  while  the  ionic  radius  of  lithium  is  0.6  X  10" 
cm.  Since  gallium  is  presumably  substitutional  in  a  tetrahedral  lattice 
we  use  its  tetrahedral  covalent  radius,  and  since  lithium  is  probably  in- 
terstitial  we  use  the  ionic  radius.  The  sum  of  the  two  is  1.86  X  10  cm 
which  compares  very  favorably  with  the  values  of  a  quoted  above. 

This  result  constitutes  good  evidence  that  lithium  is  interstitial,  for  if 
it  were  somehow  substitutional  we  might  expect  a  to  be  something  like 
a  germanium-germanium  bond  length  which  is  2.46  X  10"  cm.  Such  a 
value  of  a  would  lead  to  profoundly  different  crossing  temperatures  (of 
the  order  of  100°  lower)  so  that  it  is  not  very  likely. 

One  further  point  needs  mention.  This  is  the  fact  that  as  the  two  ions 
approach  very  closely,  the  concept  of  the  uniform  macroscopic  dielectric 
constant,  k,  loses  its  meaning.  In  fact,  the  binding  energy  should  be  in- 
creased (as  though  K  were  reduced).  Crude  estimates  of  the  magnitude 


606 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


of  this  effect  based  on  a  dielectric  cavity  model  show  it  to  be  of  the  order 
of  some  10  or  15  percent  of  the  energy  computed  on  the  assumption  of 
the  dielectric  continuum,  the  increased  binding  energy  showing  up  as  a 
reduced  value  of  a.  This  may  account  for  the  fact  that  the  observed  a, 


at  1.7  X  10"   cm  is  less  than  the  theoretical  value,  1.86  X  10"   cm. 

The  above  example  shows  the  ion  pairing  phenomenon  in  action  as  a 
structural  tool,  useful  in  investigating  isolated  impurities.  In  particular 
the  demonstration  that  lithium  is  interstitial  is  interesting.  The  values 
of  a  have  much  more  meaning  as  independent  parameters  in  solids  than 
they  have  in  liquids,  where  a  given  ion  may  be  surrounded  by  a  sheath  of 
solvating  solvent  molecules.  Under  the  latter  conditions  the  value  of  (i 
can  only  be  determined  through  application  of  the  ion  pairing  theor}- 
itself. 

Of  course,  certain  unusual  situations  arise  in  solids  also,  and  values  of 
a  (determined  from  ion  pairing)  are  valuable  indications  of  structural 
peculiarities. 

Similar  experiments  have  been  performed  on  specimens  doped  with 
indium  and  boron.  The  results  of  all  our  investigations  on  the  cross-over 
phenomenon  are  tabulated  in  Table  V.  In  the  table  the  first  column 
lists  the  acceptor  involved,  and  the  second  and  third  the  appropriate 
concentrations  of  impurities.  The  fourth  column  contains  the  cross-over 
temperature,  while  the  fifth,  the  measured  value  of  a  determined  from 
it.  The  last  column  lists  the  values  of  a  to  be  expected  on  the  basis  of  the 
addition  of  tetrahedral  covalent  radii  to  the  ionic  radius  of  lithium  —  all 
of  which  appear  in  Pauling. 

The  reliability  of  the  measurements  are  in  the  order  gallium,  alumi- 
num, boron,  and  indium.  The  principal  reason  for  this  is  that  the  indium 
crystal  was  not  grown  specially  for  this  work  and  was  somewhat  non- 
uniform. Of  the  two  values  obtained  for  a  we  tend  to  place  more  confi- 


Table  V 


Acceptor 

Acceptor 
cone. 

Lithium 
cone. 

Cross-over 
Temp. 

Measured 
a 

Pauling  a 

(cm-3) 

(cm-3) 

(°C.) 

(cm) 

(.cm; 

B 

7.0  X  1016 

5.9  X  10i« 

338 

2.05  X  10-8 

1.48  X  10-8 

B 

7.0  X  10i« 

5.54  X  10" 

320 

2.27  X  10-8 

1.48  X  10-8 

B 

7.0  X  10'« 

5.85  X  10" 

330 

2.16  X  10-8 

1.48  X  10-8 

Al 

9.5  X  10" 

9.0  X  10" 

350 

1.68  X  10-8 

1.86  X  10-8 

Ga 

3.0  X  101^ 

2.8  X  10" 

440 

1.71  X  10-8 

1.86  X  10-8 

Ga 

9.0  X  10" 

6.1  X  10" 

348 

1.73  X  10-8 

1.86  X  10-8 

In 

8.3  X  10'7 

1.9  X  10" 

476 

1.61  X  10-8 

2.04  X  10-8 

In 

3.3  X  10" 

2.68  X  10" 

426 

1.83  X  10-8 

2.04  X  10-8 

CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  607 

dence  in  1.83  X  10~^  than  in  1.61  X  10~^  cm.  More  work  is  necessary, 
however,  before  a  real  decision  can  be  made. 

A  feature  of  Table  V  is  the  fact  that  gallium,  aluminum,  and  indium 
exhibit  orthodox  behavior,  i.e.,  the  measured  a's  are  in  both  cases  slightly 
less  than  those  expected  on  the  basis  of  the  addition  of  radii.  The  in- 
ternal consistency  of  the  theory  gains  support  from  the  fact  that  gal- 
lium and  aluminum  behave  similarly  as  the  Pauling  a's  tabulated  in 
Table  V  predict.  In  fact  if  1.83  X  10~  cm  is  taken  as  the  more  reliable 
indium  value  the  three  cases  fail  to  match  the  Pauling  radii  by  about  the 
same  amount,  a  result  which  implies  that  the  disparity  is  due  to  the  same 
cause,  i.e.,  failure  of  the  dielectric  continuum  concept. 

Another  feature  of  Table  V  is  the  fact  that  boron  is  out  of  line  to  the 
extent  that  the  measured  a  exceeds  the  Pauling  a  by  50  per  cent.  A  pos- 
sible explanation  is  the  following.  The  tetrahedral  radii  of  boron  and 

o  o 

germanium  are  poorly  matched  (0.88  A  and  1.26  A,  respectively).  The 
strain  in  the  boron-germanium  bond  may  appear  as  a  distortion  of  the 
germanium  atom  in  such  a  way  as  to  increase  the  effective  size  of  the 
boron  ion.  This  strain  was  mentioned  before  in  Section  V  where  it  was 
invoked  to  explain  the  stability  of  LiB~  complex  in  silicon. 

XIII,    RELAXATION   STUDIES 

The  relaxation  time  discussed  in  Section  X  has  been  studied  experi- 
mentally. The  following  procedure  was  used.  A  specimen  was  warmed 
to  350°K  where  a  considerable  amount  of  pair  dissociation  occurred,  and 
then  cooled  quickly  by  plunging  into  liquid  nitrogen.  It  was  then  rapidly 
transferred  to  a  constant  temperature  bath,  held  at  a  temperature  where 
pair  formation  took  place  at  a  reasonable  rate,  and  the  change  in  sample 
conductivity  (as  pairing  took  place)  was  measured  as  a  function  of  time. 

The  principle  upon  which  this  measurement  is  based  is  the  following. 
At  a  given  temperature  the  occurrence  of  pairing  does  not  change  the 
carrier  concentration,  only  the  carrier  mobility.  As  a  result  the  measure- 
ment of  conductivity  is  effectively  a  measurement  of  relative  mobility. 
During  relaxation  the  densities  of  charged  impurities  are  changed,  at  the 
most,  by  amounts  of  the  order  of  50  per  cent.  Over  this  range,  the  mobil- 
ity may  be  considered  a  linear  function  of  scatterer  density.  The  depend- 
ence of  conductivity  on  time,  as  pairing  takes  place,  must  be  of  the  form 

c  ^  a„-^  e-"'  (13.1) 

where  cr^  is  the  conductivity  when  ^  =  co ,  and  r  is  the  relaxation  time  de- 
fined in  section  X  while  $  is  some  unknown  constant,  depending  among 


608 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


other  things  on  the  initial  state  of  the  system.  Equation  (13.1)  is  based 
on  the  assumption  that  the  number  of  charged  scatterers  decays  as  a 
first  order  process,  and  that  cr  is  a  linear  function  of  this  number,  relative 
to  the  exponential  dependence  on  time. 

The  first  order  character  of  pairing  is  fortunate  for  it  renders  the 
measurement  of  r  independent  of  a  knowledge  of  $,  i.e.  independent  of 
the  initial  state  of  the  system.  This  is  not  only  fortunate  from  the  point 
of  view  of  calculation  but  from  experiment,  since  it  is  almost  impossible 
to  prepare  a  specimen  in  a  well  defined  initial  state. 

The  unimportance  of  <l>  is  best  seen  by  plotting  the  logarithm  of 
(T„  —  (T  against  time.  According  to  (13.1)  this  plot  is  specified  by 


log  (o-«  -  cr)  =  log  *  +  - 

T 


(13.1) 


Thus  the  reciprocal  of  its  slope  measures  r,  and  $  is  not  involved.  Fig. 
27  illustrates  the  data  for  a  typical  run  plotted  in  this  manner.  The  sam- 
ple is  one  containing  about  9  X  lO'^  cm~^  gallium  and  the  experiment 
was  performed  at  195°K  (dry  ice  temperature).  Notice  that  the  curve  is 
absolutely  straight  out  to  3500  minutes,  demonstrating  beyond  a  doubt 
that  the  process  is  first  order.  The  relaxation  time  computed  from  its 
slope  is  1.51  X  10  seconds  as  against  a  value  calculated  by  the  methods 


1 

I 

I 
o 


l.Or-: 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


0.1 


1 

"V,^^ 

\ 

TEm 
Go 

T    = 
T   = 

P      =     195° 
=     lO'^CM" 

1.66  X  10^ 
1.51    X  10^ 

3 

SEC     (mE/C 
SEC     (CAL 

vSURED) 

culated) 

\ 

^\ 

'.!• 


500  1000  1500  2000 

TIME    IN    MINUTES 


2500 


3000 


3500 


Fig.  27  —  Plot  of  log  (o-„   —  <r)  as  a  function  of  time  showing  first  order  kinetics 
of  pairing. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS    IN   Ge   AND    Si  609 


10^ 


10= 


10' 


10- 


102 


10 


/ 

/ 

THEC 

)RY   FC 

R   lO'^GALLIL 

/ 

/ 

f 

/ 

^ 

/ 

f 

r 

/ 

/ 

• 

'theo 

RY    FOR    7XK 

)16  BORON 
i 

1 

0.0030 


0.0035  0.0040  0.0046  0.0050 

l/TEMPERATURE    IN     DEGREES    KELVIN 


0.0055 


Fig.  28  —  Plots  of  logarithm  of  relaxation  time  versus  reciprocal  temperature 
showing  agreement  between  theory  and  experiment. 

of  section  X  of  1.66  X  10  seconds.  The  result  is  in  good  agreement  with 
iiieoiy. 

Studies  of  the  kind  ilkistrated  in  Fig.  27  have  been  carried  out  in 
samples  doped  to  various  levels  and  also  at  various  temperatures. 
Boron  and  indium  have  been  used  as  doping  agents,  as  well  as  galHum. 
Relaxation  times  have  been  measured  over  the  range  extending  from 
about  a  second  to  hundreds  of  thousands  of  seconds.  In  each  case  straight 
line  plots  were  obtained  and  the  agreement  between  calculated  and 
measured  r's  has  been  as  good  as  in  the  example  illustrated  by  Fig.  28. 
Relaxation  connected  with  dissociation  has  also  been  measured  with 
equally  satisfactory  results. 

Some  of  these  data  are  shown  in  Fig.  29  where  log  r  is  plotted  as  a 
function  of  reciprocal  temperature  for  gallium  and  boron  at  two  different 
values  of  doping.  The  drawn  curves  are  theoretical  obtained  from  Fig.  20 
while  the  points  shown  are  experimental.  It  is  seen  that  agreement  is 
nearly  perfect.  The  relaxation  time,  true  to  the  demands  of  theory,  does 
not  seem  to  depend  on  the  kind  of  acceptor  used  for  doping,  i.e.,  it  is 
independent  of  a,  the  distance  of  closest  approach. 

The  data  in  Fig.  28  actually  can  be  used  to  measure  the  diffusivity  of 


610  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

lithium.  As  must  be  the  case  from  the  above  mentioned  agreement,  the 
values  of  Do  computed  from  them  agree  with  the  diffusion  data  of  Fuller 
and  Severiens  almost  perfectly.  This  is  a  very  quick  and  sensitive 
method  (also  probably  exceedingly  accurate)  for  determining  diffusivi- 
ties.  For  example  the  work  already  completed,  in  effect,  represents  the 
determination  of  diffusivities  of  the  order  of  10~^^  cm^/sec  within  a 
matter  of  an  hour,  and,  no  doubt,  smaller  diffusivities  could  be  deter- 
mined by  doping  more  heavily  with  acceptor. 

XIV.   THE    EFFECT   OF   ION   PAIRING   ON    ENERGY   LEVELS 

It  was  predicted  in  Section  VIII  that  ion  pairing  would  drive  the 
electronic  energy  states  of  donors  and  acceptors  from  the  forbidden 
energy  region.  In  this  section  it  will  be  demonstrated  by  low  temperature 
Hall  effect  measurements  that  the  addition  of  lithium  to  gallium-doped 
germanium  does  indeed  result  in  the  removal  of  states  from  the  forbidden 
gap  rather  than  in  the  simple  compensation  which  occurs  when  a  non- 
mobile  donor  such  as  antimony  is  added. 

At  low  temperatures  where  carrier  concentration,  p,  is  less  than  the 
donor  concentration,  it  can  be  expressed  in  the  form^^ 


Na  -  N, 
V  = 


.  {^_]^Y  exp  [-EJkT]  (14.1) 


where  Na  and  No  are  the  concentrations  of  acceptor  and  donor  states, 
respectively,  irip  ,  the  effective  mass  of  free  holes,  h,  Plank's  constant, 
and  Ea  the  ionization  energy  of  the  acceptor.  The  values  of  nip  and  Ea 
are  known  for  the  group  III  acceptors. 

Lithium  was  added  to  a  specimen  of  germanium  known  to  contain 
1.0  X  10  cm~  gallium  atoms  and  a  negligible  amount  of  ordinary 
donors.  Carrier  concentrations  for  this  specimen  were  determined  from 
Hall  coefficient  measurements.  The  logarithm  of  this  concentration  is 
shown  in  Fig.  29  plotted  against  reciprocal  temperature.  The  high 
temperature  limit  of  this  plot  fixes  N a  —  Nd  at  1.15  X  10    cm~^. 

At  low  temperatures  the  curve  exhibits  an  extended  linear  portion  to 
which  (14.1)  should  apply.  Evaluating  (14.1)  with  p  =  4.0  X  10^^  cm"'  at 
1/T  =  0.06  deg~'  and  A^^  -  A^^  =  1.15  x  lO''  cm~^  we  find  that  Nd  = 
2.6  X  10'*  cm"'  and  A^^  =  1.4  X  lO''  cm~l 

Therefore,  the  density  of  apparent  acceptor  states  has  been  decreased 
by  1.0  X  10'®  -  1.4  X  10''  =  8.6  X  10^^  cm"l  The  added  concentration 
of  lithium  was  1.0  X  10^^  cm"'  -  1.15  X  10^^  cm"'  =  8.85  X  lO'^cm"', 
almost  identical  with  the  loss  in  concentration  of  acceptor  states.  This  im- 
plies (as  would  be  expected)  that  the  lithium  is  almost  totallj^  paired. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge  AND    Si  611 


8 


5 

V 


z 
o 


< 

a: 


O 

I 


10' 


10 


13 


Na-Nd 

TRUE    Na=10'6cM"3 
APPARENT     Na  =  1.4X10'ScM-3 

- 

^^^ 

V, 

- 

\ 

- 

N 

V 

- 

\ 

\ 

\ 

s. 

- 

\ 

- 

\ 

- 

\ 

- 

_  Na-Nd  f27rmpkTA^/2j'EA\    , 
P~       Nd      I         h2      P'UtJ' 

\ 

\ 

\ 

0.1 


0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6 

1/ TEMPERATURE    IN    DEGREES    KELVIN 


0.7 


0.8 


Fig.  29  —  Plot  of  hole  concentration  as  a  function  of  reciprocal  temperature  for 
a  sample  containing  ion  pairs. 


An  even  more  striking  result  appears.  From  the  above  results  the 
density  of  lithium  atoms  involved  in  pairs  is  8.85  X  10^^  cm~^  —  2.6  X 
10  cm~  =  8.6  X  10  cm~  ,  the  same  number  by  which  the  density  of 
acceptors  has  been  decreased!  There  can  be  little  question  that  ion  pairing 
is  the  mechanism  responsible  for  the  removal  of  states. 

In  closing  it  is  worth  pointing  out  that  the  density  of  unpaned  lithiums 
2.6  X  10  cm~  ,  is  certainly  not  characteristic  of  the  low  temperatures 
at  which  the  above  Hall  measurements  were  performed.  Obviously  a 
density  characteristic  of  some  higher  temperature  has  been  quenched 
into  the  specimen.  At  the  low  temperature  involved  the  unpaired  density 
would  be  effectively  zero. 


XV.    RESEARCH    POSSIBILITIES 

The  fields  described  in  the  preceding  text  have  been  hardly  touched, 
even  by  this  long  paper,  and  it  does  not  seem  fitting  to  close  without 
some  speculation  concerning  the  possibilities  of  future  work. 

In  the  first  place,  there  are  other  donors  and  acceptors  besides  lithium 
which  are  reasonably  mobile  in  germanium  or  silicon,  e.g.  copper,  iron, 


612  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

zinc  or  gold.  To  some  extent  the  methods  of  this  paper  can  be  appHed 
to  these.  Furthermore,  returning  to  Hthium,  there  are  impurities  both 
mobile  and  immobile  which  introduce  more  than  one  energy  state  into 
the  forbidden  gap.  The  phase  relations  of  lithium  in  the  presence  of  these 
should  be  extremely  interesting  since  the  corresponding  mass  action 
equations  are  more  complicated.  Analogues  of  dibasic*^  acids  and  bases 
should  exist. 

In  the  case  of  ion  pairing  doubly  charged  acceptors  like  zinc  in  ger- 
manium^^ should  be  extremely  interesting,  since  large  amounts  of  pairing 
should  persist  up  to  very  high  temperatures.  In  fact  such  studies  repre- 
sent excellent  means  of  testing  for  the  existence  of  doubly  charged  ions. 
There  is  also  the  question  of  what  happens  to  the  two  energy  levels  when 
an  acceptor  like  zinc  pairs  with  a  single  lithium  ion.  Are  both  levels 
driven  from  the  forbidden  gap  or  do  they  split  under  the  perturbation? 

Then  there  is  the  problem  of  ion  triplets  —  a  possibility  with  impuri- 
ties hke  zinc  ■ —  which  is  unexplored  both  theoretically  and  experiment- 
ally. Also,  very  strange  diffusion  effects  must  occur  in  the  presence  of 
doubly  charged  ions,  to  say  nothing  of  the  effect  which  uncompensated 
mobile  holes  might  have  on  relaxation  processes. 

The  field  of  ion  pairing  in  silicon  is  relatively  unexplored. 

All  of  the  phenomena  discussed  in  this  paper  must  occur  in  the  group 
III-V  compounds,  more  or  less  complicated  by  additional  effects. 

The  question  of  the  formation  of  the  LiB~  complex  in  both  germanium 
and  silicon  needs  further  study.  It  should  behave  as  an  acceptor  and  its 
electronic  energy  state  might  be  revealed  by  suitable  quenching 
techniques. 

Non  ionic  reactions  between  group  V  donors  and  group  III  acceptors 
very  likely  occur,  i.e.,  a  real  III-V  covalent  bond  may  be  formed  be- 
tween such  atoms  dissolved  in  germanium  or  silicon  at  high  tempera- 
tures. This  possibility  could  be  investigated  by  looking  for  changes  in 
carrier  mobility  or  impurity  energy  levels  upon  extended  heating  —  in 
much  the  same  way  that  ion  pairing  has  been  studied.  If  found,  the 
phenomenon  may  provide  an  excellent  technique  for  measuring  the  dif- 
fusitivities  of  all  classes  of  impurities  even  at  fairly  low  temperatures. 

Such  compounds  may  possess  strange  energy  levels  and  be  responsible 
for  unexplained  traps  and  recombination  centers. 

The  effect  of  stress  on  the  extent  of  ion  pairing  may  well  be  profound 
since  there  will  be  a  tendency  for  such  stress  to  concentrate  at  imperfec- 
tions. Stress  studies  on  ion  pairing  may  therefore  be  useful  for  further 
investigating  the  strain  about  an  isolated  impurity. 

Ion  pairing  between  lithium  ions  and  acceptor  centers  located  in 
dislocations  or  vacancies  should  occur.  In  the  first  case  the  dislocation 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  613 

would  be  the  analogue  of  the  polyelectrolyte  molecule  in  the  aqueous 
solution. 

An  interesting  question,  in  the  diffusion  of  substitutional  acceptors, 
concerns  whether  the  ion  or  the  neutral  atom  is  responsible  for  diffusion. 
It  is  possible  that  the  neutral  atom,  less  securely  bonded  to  the  lattice, 
is  the  chief  agent.  This  might  be  determined  by  changing  the  ratio  of 
neutral  atoms  to  ions  by  suitably  doping  with  other  donors  or  acceptors. 

Doping  apparently  affects  the  concentration  of  vacancies  which  have 
acceptor  properties  and  therefore  the  rate  of  diffusion.'"''  '^^ 

Other  interesting  effects  concerning  the  distribution  of  an  impurity 
between  two  different  kinds  sites  in  the  lattice^^  are  also  possible. 

These  and  many  other  fascinating  fields  still  require  exploration.  We 
hope  to  investigate  some  of  them  in  the  near  future. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The  authors  are  greatly  indebted  to  A.  J.  Pietruszkiewicz,  Jr.,  for  as- 
sistance in  carrying  out  experimental  work  relating  to  solubility  and 
diffusion  and  to  J.  P.  Malta  for  help  with  experimental  work  on  Hall 
effect  and  an  ion-pair  relaxation.  Thanks  are  due  N.  B.  Hannay  for  many 
helpful  comments  during  the  course  of  the  work  and  during  preparation 
of  the  manuscript.  Thanks  are  also  due  Miss  M.  C.  Gray  for  the  evalua- 
tion of  the  integrals  in  Section  VII  and  to  F.  G.  Foster  for  the  photograph 
of  Fig.  8.  Finally  the  authors  would  like  to  thank  the  editors  of  the 
Bell  System  Technical  Journal  for  providing  space  so  that  all  of  the  im- 
portant features  of  our  subject  could  be  treated  in  one  article. 

Appendix  A 

THE   EFFECT   OF   ION   PAIRING   ON   SOLUBILITY 

In  Section  VHI  attention  was  called  to  the  fact  that  ion  pairing  should 
have  some  effect  on  lithium  solubility  but  that  it  would  be  difficult  to 
achieve  conditions  under  which  the  effect  would  be  observable.  Now,  this 
point  will  be  enlarged  upon.  Consider  an  equilibrium  like  (2.1)  except 
imagine  it  to  take  place  in  germanium  with  gallium  as  the  immobile  ac- 
ceptor. (This  because  germanium  with  gallium  has  been  studied  in  ion 
pairing  investigations.) 

Li  (external)  ^  Li"*"  +        e~ 

+  + 

Ga~  -1-        e+  (Al) 

Ti  U 

[Li+Ga"]  eV 


614  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

where  [Li"'"Ga~]  represents  an  ion  pair,  whose  concentration  we  denote 
by  P.  Na  and  No  will  be  the  total  densities  of  acceptor  and  donor  re- 
spectively and  A"  and  D'^  the  densities  of  acceptor  and  donor  ions  in  the 
unpaired  state. 

As  in  the  main  text,  n  and  p  will  represent  the  concentrations  of  holes 
and  electrons.  The  following  relations  are  then  to  be  expected  on  the 
basis  of  definition,  mass  action,  and  charge  balance. 

Na  =  A-  +  P  (A2) 

AT^  =  £)+  +  P  (A3) 

D^n  =  K*  (A4) 

np  =  n/  (A5) 

^      =  n  (A6) 


A+D- 

D'^  +  p  =  A~  -j-  n  (A7) 

Equations  (A4),  (A5),  and  (A7)  are  just  reproductions  of  (3.1),  (3.2), 
(2.8),  while  (A6)  is  the  same  as  (9.4).  The  problem  is  to  express  the  solu- 
bility of  lithium,  Nd  ,  as  a  function  of  Na  ■  Manipulation  of  the  pre- 
ceding set  of  equations  gives  this  result  as 

N.  =  (^^  -  ^")(1  +  "^")  (AS) 

with  A~  given  by  the  solution  of 
Na  -  A~  A- 


QA- 


A- 


2 


(A9) 


+n2 


/i+d 


i  +  ^/i  +  i|-;^' 


+  (Do*) 


where  Do^  is  defined  by  (3.3).  Equation  (A9)  generally  needs  to  be  solved 
numerically  for  A~.  • 

To  see  what  these  relations  predict  in  a  special  case  consider  the 
solubility  of  lithium  in  gallium-doped  germanium  at  300°K.  At  this 
temperature  the  values  of  Ui  and  Do^  and  12  are 

rii  =  2.8  X  10^'  cm~^ 

2)/  =  7  X  10''  cm"'  (AlO) 

fi  =  l.Gl  X  10^'cm"l 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  615 


Table  AI — 

Temperature  = 

300°K 

Na   (cm-3) 

Nd  (cm-3) 

Nd*  (cm-3) 

P  =  Na   -  A-  (cm-3) 

IQi* 
1015 
1016 
101' 
1018 

1.25  X  10'* 

0.94  X  10'5 

0.985  X  1016 

0.990  X  IQi' 

0.995  X  1018 

1.25  X  IQi* 
0.875  X  10'5 
0.875  X  1016 
0.875  X  101' 
0.875  X  10'8 

0.15  X  101* 
0.44  X  1015 
0.77  X  1016 
0.92  X  101' 
0.97  X  1018 

The  value  of  Ui  is  taken  from  Figure  2,  of  Do'^,  from  Figure  5,  and  of  fi, 
from  Table  IV.  Using  (AlO)  together  with  (A9)  and  (A8)  leads  to  the 
results  tabulated  in  Table  AI.  In  this  table,  Nd*  represents  the  solu- 
bility for  the  case  0  =  0,  i.e.,  the  solubility  if  there  were  no  ion  pairing. 
The  main  feature  to  be  obtained  from  the  Table  is  that  Nd  is  not  very 
much  larger  than  Nd*,  no  matter  how  large  the  value  of  A^^  .  This  is 
true  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  last  column  which  lists  P  shows  that  at 
Na  =  10^^  cm~^  P  is  about  98  %  of  A''^  so  that  pairing  of  the  donor  is 
virtually  complete. 

The  result  is  not  limited  to  the  special  conditions  of  doping  and  tem- 
perature chosen  in  compiling  Table  AI,  but  must  be  quite  general.  One 
can  arrive  at  this  conclusion  in  the  following  way. 

By  subtracting  (A3)  from  (A2)  we  obtain 


Na-  Nd  =  A~  -  Z)+. 


(All) 


^+ 


The  quantities  A~  and  D  appear  in  equations  (A4)  and  (A7),  while  n 
and  p,  appearing  in  (A4)  and  (A7)  are  related  by  (A5) .  These  three  equa- 
tions are  sufficient  for  the  determination  oi  D^  in  its  dependence  on  A". 

'  That  this  is  the  case  is  immediately  obvious  when  (A4),  (A5),  and  (A7) 
are  recognized  as  reproductions  of  (3.1),  (3.2)  and  (2.8).  In  fact  this 
means  that  the  desired  relationship  between  D^  and  A~  is  nothing  more 
than  equation  (3.4)  which  itself  is  predicated  on  (3.1),  (3.2),  and  (2.8). 
Hut  then  it  is  known  according  to  (3.6),  that  D'^  can  at  the  most  be 
slightly  greater  than  A~,  although  most  likely  less.  This  assumes  of  course 
that  we  deal  with  dopings  sufficiently  high  so  that  (3.5)  applies.  On 
the  other  hand  at  low  dopings  (3.4)  tells  us  that  Z)"^  will  be  Do^.  There- 
fore if  we  work  with  a  system  in  which  in  the  absence  of  pairing  the  elec- 
1  ion-hole  equilibrium  has  driven  the  value  of  Nd  close  to  Na  (as  it  has 
ill  this  system  —  see  Nd*)  the  introduction  of  pairing  cannot  drive  it 
much  higher,  since  according  to  (All)  if  D^  cannot  get  higher  than  A~, 
\'d  cannot  exceed  Na  •  This  is  evident  in  Table  AI  where  Nd  comes  very 

I  close  to  Na  but  never  exceeds  it. 

When  A''^  is  very  small  so  that  D"*"  equals  Do'^  and  does  exceed  A~  by 


616 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


a  large  amount,  there  can  be  no  visible  increment  in  solubility  as  a  result 
of  pairing  because  P  can  never  exceed  N a  which  by  definition  is  small. 
The  physical  reason  for  these  limitations  is  the  following.  Suppose  Nd 
is  driven  close  to  A''^  by  the  hole-electron  equilibrium  so  that  in  terms  of 
carriers  (holes  and  electrons)  the  specimen  is  very  closely  compensated. 
Then  if  by  the  formation  of  pairs,  additional  donors  are  caused  to  enter 
the  crystal,  the  electrons  they  donate  cannot  be  absorbed  by  holes  be- 
cause very  few  of  the  latter  are  present.  Thus  the  following  two  sketched 
equilibria  will  oppose  each  other 


Li  (external) 


Li+ 

+ 
Ga~ 

Ti 

[Li+Ga"] 


+ 


(A12) 


the  one  involving  electrons  attempting  to  drive  lithium  out  of  solution 
because  of  the  build-up  of  electron  concentration,  and  the  pairing  equi- 
librium attempting  to  bring  lithium  into  solution  in  order  to  form  pairs. 
Thus  the  pairing  process  will  not  be  as  efficient  a  solubilizer  as  might 
be  thought  at  first. 

This  point  can  be  illustrated  by  considering  a  situation  in  which  the 
germanium  crystal  not  only  contains  gallium  to  the  level,  A''^  but  also 
an  immobile  donor,  to  the  level  A'^  —  0.99  N a  .  Thus,  the  crystal  is  almost 
compensated  before  any  lithium  has  been  added.  Nevertheless,  there  are 
still  Na  gallium  ions  so  that  even  though  the  hole-electron  equilibrium, 
working  on  the  differential,  0.01  Na  ,  cannot  increase  the  solubility  of 
lithium,  the  pairing  process  might.  To  investigate  this  situation  equations 
(A2)  to  (A7)  can  be  adopted  with  the  simple  change  that  (A~  —  N)  re- 
places A~  in  (A7). 

Taking  the  situation  covered  by  (AlO)  at  300°K,  Table  All  was  com- 
piled. Here  again  Nd*  is  the  solubility  for  12  =  0. 

If  only  the  hole-electron  effect  were  operative,  then  we  could  not  ex 
pect  to  drive  Nd  much  beyond  Na  —  N.  In  the  10^^  case  Na  —  A"  is  10 
cm"^  and  in  the  lO"  case  it  is  10^^  cm"'.  The  values  of  Nd*  in  Table  All 
thus  confirm  this  argument.  Furthermore,  Nd  is  in  neither  case  much 
greater  than  No*  showing  that  despite  the  fact  that  there  were,  respec- 


14 


Table  AH  —  Temperature  300°K 

Na  (cm->) 

N  (cm-«) 

Nd  (cm-») 

Nd*  (cm-») 

P  (cm-») 

10i« 
10" 

0.99  X  10" 
0.99  X  1017 

3.2  X  101* 
1.6  X  10" 

1.26  X  10'* 
0.88  X  10" 

3  X  101*      . 
1.6  X  10" 

CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  617 

lively,  10^^  and  10^^  cm~^  gallium  ions  available  for  pairing,  the  pairing 
process  did  \'ery  little  to  increase  the  solubility. 

If  the  constant  9,  is  exceedingly  large  as  is  probably  the  case  for  a 
multiply  charged  acceptor,  it  is  possible  that  ion  paring  will  have  a  meas- 
urable effect  on  solubility. 

Appendix  B 
concentration  dependence  of  diffusivity  in  the  presence  of  ion 

PAIRING 

In  Section  VIII  it  was  mentioned  that  the  diffusivity  of  a  mobile  donor 
like  lithium  is  concentration  dependent  when  the  donor  participates  in  a 
pairing  equilibrium  with  an  immobile  acceptor.  In  this  appendix  we 
propose  to  investigate  the  nature  of  the  dependence. 

Consider  a  semiconductor,  uniformly  doped  to  the  level,  Na  ,  with 
acceptor.  Let  the  local  density  of  mobile  donor  be  Noix),  x  being  the 
position  coordinate.  If  P(x)  is  the  local  pair  concentration,  then  the  local 
density  of  free  diffusible  ions  is  {No  —  P).  The  flux  of  these  diffusing 
ions  then  depends  upon  the  gradient  (assuming  Fick's  law^^)  of  {N d  — 
P).  Thus,  if  Do  is  the  diffusivity  of  free  donor,  i.e.  the  diffusivity  in  the 
absence  of  pairing,  then  the  flux  density  is 

/=-D.£(^[^)  (Bl) 

dX 

If  we  apply  (9.4)  to  the  present  case  we  can  write 

O  =  ^  ^  -  {No  -  P)  +  .V. 

{Na  -  P){Nu  -  P)       [{Na  -  No)  +  (A^;,  -  P)]{No  -P)      ^   ^^ 

ifrom  which  it  is  possible  to  solve  for  {No  —  P).  Thus 


Substitution  of  (B3)  into  (Bl)  yields 
Do 


^=-2 


\[Nn-NA   + 

1  + 


0/ 


/I 


dNi 
dx 


(B4) 


llf  ion  pairing  was  not  thought  of,  the  flux  density  would  have  been  writ- 
ten in  terms  of  the  gradient  of  the  total  concentration.  No  ■ 

f=  -D^-p^  (B5) 

dx 


618 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


where  D  is  the  diffusivity.  Comparison  of  (B5)  with  (B4)  leads  to  the 
relation 


D  = 


Do 


1  + 


K^^- 


N^  + 


i/l(^«- 


(B6) 


so  that  D  depends  on  the  local  concentration,  No  ,  of  diffusant. 

It  is  interesting  to  explore  the  limiting  forms  of  D  when  No  «  Na  and 
when  Nd  =  Na  .  In  the  latter  case  (B6)  reduces  to 

1  + 


^ 


-f 


y  4fi2  ^  12  _ 


(B7) 


while  (B3)  becomes 


N, 


^20       y  402  ^    j2 


(B8) 


Substituting  the  left  side  of  (B8)  for  the  denominator  involving  the 
radical  in  (B7)  leads  to 


-  =  T° 


1  + 


2(Na  -  P)0  +  IJ 
But  according  to  (B2),  when  Na  =  Nd  , 

P 


(Na  -  P)0  = 


N, 


(B9) 


(BIO) 


so  that  (B9)  becomes 


«  =  l" 


1  + 


2P 


N. 


+  1 


(B12) 


Now  in  case  the  degree  of  pairing  is  high  (which  is,  of  course,  the  case 
we  are  interested  in)  P  will  be  almost  equal  to  Na  so  that 

2P 


Na-  P 


(B13) 


will  be  a  very  large  number.  If  this  is  so  the  second  term  in  brackets  in 
(B12)  can  be  set  equal  to  zero  and  we  have 

D, 


D  = 


(B14) 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Gg   AND   Si  619 


In  the  other  extreme  with  No  «  Na  (B6)  becomes 


-f 


1  + 


«-^^ 


4/laWJ 


Do 


1  +  ^Na 


(B15) 


Since  Q  Na  can  exceed  unity  by  a  large  amount  it  is  evident  that  the  re- 
lation in  (B15)  predicts  a  large  reduction  in  diffusivity  towards  the 
front  end  of  a  diffusion  curve  where  Nd  «  A^^  ,  and  (B14)  a  smaller  re- 
duction in  Do  where  Np  may  be  close  to  Na  .  That  part  of  the  medium 
near  the  front  of  the  diffusion  curve  acts  therefore  like  a  region  of  high 
resistance,  confining  the  diffusant  to  the  back  end  where  the  resistance 
is  low. 


Appendix  C 

solution  of  boundary  value  problem  for  relaxation 

In  Section  X  equations  (10.23),  (10.21),  (10.20),  and  (10.19)  defined 
a  boundary  value  problem  which  we  reproduce  here,  except  that  (10.20) 
and  (10.19)  have  been  written  more  completely  with  the  aid  of  (10.16). 
Thus 


r^  dr  \     dr  . 


Do  dt 


dp     ,     R  n  T 

r-  +  ^P=0,        r  =  L, 
dr        r^ 


r  =  a 


p  =  N\         t  ==  0, 


a  <r  <  L 


(CI) 


(C2) 
(C3) 


In  principle  this  problem  is  soluble  by  separation  of  variables.^^  Thus  we 
define 

pir,  t)  =  Gir)  S(t)  (C4) 

which  upon  substitution  into  (CI),  yields  the  two  ordinary  differential 
equations 

d 


dr 


2    dG      ,       r,^ 

r  -T-  +  RG 
dr 


+  77'(?   =   0 


d  (n  S         2r,        A 
-^  +  ^Z)o  =  0 


(C5) 
(C6) 


where  77  is  an  arbitrary  positive  parameter. 
The  allowable  values  of  -q  are  determined  by  (C2)  which  can  now  be 


620  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

replaced  by 

^  +  ^  (?  =  0,         r  =  L,         r  =  a  (C7) 

dr        r^ 

Equation  (C6)  can  be  solved  immediately  to  give 

S,{t)  =  e-'''">'  (C8)  I 

and  if  we  assign  the  subscript  77  to  the  G  going  with  r?  the  most  general 
solution  of  (CI)  and  (C2)  will  be 

P  =  Z  A,Gr,(r)e-"'''°'  (C9) 

where  the  A,,  are  arbitrary  constants  so  determined  that  (C3)  is  satisfied. 

Equation  (C9)  shows  that  in  reality  there  exists,  for  this  problem,  a 
spectrum  of  relaxation  times,  I/t^'Do  .  After  a  brief  transient  period  many 
of  the  higher  order  terms  will  decay  away  and  eventually  only  the  first 
two  terms  will  have  to  be  considered.  Finally  when  equilibrium  is  at- 
tained only  the  first  term  Avill  survive. 

The  last  statement  implies  that  77  =  0,  is  an  allowable  eigenvalue,  i.e., 
that  the  first  term  is  independent  of  time.  That  this  is  so  can  be  proved 
by  solving  (C5)  for  17  =  0,  and  substituting  the  result  in  (C7).  Thus 

Go(r)  =  exp  (f^^  (CIO) 

and  this  does  satisfy  (C7).  p  can  then  be  approximated  after  the  transient 

by 

p  =  Ao  exp  (j^  +  ^1  Gi(r)e-''i-^'"  (Cll) 

from  which  it  is  obvious  that  the  relaxation  time  dealt  with  in  section  X 
is 

T  =  -hr  (C12) 

In  principle  it  should  be  possible  to  evaluate  Gi  by  the  straightforward 
solution  of  (C5)  and  determination  of  the  second  eigenvalue  through 
substitution  of  this  solution  in  (C7).  In  fact  this  represents  a  rather  un- 
pleasant task  since  G  is  a  confluent  hypergeometric  function.  Therefore 
we  shall  follow  an  alternative  route  based  on  the  assumption  that  by  the 
time  (Cll)  applies  the  flux  4xr"J*(r),  where  J*  is  given  by  (10. IG),  is 
almost  independent  of  r.  The  reader  is  referred  to  some  related  papers  ' 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  621 

for  the  justification  of  this  view.  Briefly  it  is  permissible,  after  a  short 
transient  period,  in  spherical  diffusion,  whenever  the  dimensions  of  the 
diffusion  field  are  large  compared  to  the  dimension  of  the  sink.  This  re- 
sults from  the  fact  that  in  spherical  diffusion  from  an  infinite  field  a 
real  steady  state  is  reached  after  a  brief  transient  period.  In  contrast,  in 
plane-parallel  diffusion  to  a  sink  from  an  infinite  field,  a  steady  state  is 
never  reached. 

Substituting  (Cll)  into  (10.16)  then  yields 

J*  ==   -AAie-'"'''"'  ("^  +  ^  G^  (C13) 

\dr         r^      / 

Multiplying  J*  by  47rr"  and  demanding  that  the  product  be  independent 
of  r,  leads  to  the  relation 

r'^+RG^  =  8  (C14) 

dr 

where  8  is  constant.  The  solution  of  (C14)  is 

G,  =  exp  g)  +  I  (C15) 

This  is  a  sufficient  approximation  for  Gi  . 

1  The  constants  r]i  ,  Ao ,  Ai ,  and  5  must  now  be  determined.  To  accom- 
'plish  this  we  note  that  (C2)  which  specifies  that  the  boundaries  at  r  =  a 
,and  r  =  L,  are  impermeable  is  equivalent  to  the  condition  that  ions  be 
'conserved  with  the  interval  (a,  L),  or  that 

47r  (    r'p  dr  =  N  (C16) 

Ja 

\ 

\fter  infinite  time  p  is  specified  by  the  first  term  of  (Cll)  and  when  this 
is  inserted  into  (CI 6)  the  result  is 

Ao  =  NM  (C17) 

|,vhere  M  is  defined  by  (10.26). 

':    Substitution  of  (C17)  and  (CIS)  into  (Cll)  gives 

p  =  NM  exp  (R/r)  +  (ai  exp  (R/r)  +  ^  j  e""^'"'"'       (C18) 

Now  (C3)  applied  to  (C18)  demands 

NM  +  Ai  =  0  (C19) 

^  ^  N'  (C20) 

R 


622  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Of  course  this  presumes  that  the  approximation  contained  in  (C18)  is 
valid  down  to  very  small  values  of  time.  This  assumption  is  well  founded 
as  the  transient  does  vanish  after  a  rather  short  time. 
Inserting  (C19)  and  (C20)  in  (C18)  then  gives  us 

p  =  NM  exp  {R/r)  +  N[N  -  M  exp  iR/r)]e-'"''">'        (C21) 

in  which  only  771  remains  to  be  determined. 

Substitution  of  (C21)  into  (C16),  recalling  the  definitions  of  M  and  L, 
shows  that  it  already  satisfies  (C16)  for  any  time,  t.  Thus  (C16)  cannot 
be  used  for  determining  771  . 

On  the  other  hand  we  note  from  (C21)  that  as  soon  as  r  becomes  of 
order,  R,  p  becomes  almost  independent  of  r,  being  given 

p  =  N{N  +  (N  -  M)e-'"'''''}  (C22) 

Since  L  is  of  the  order  lOR  or  greater,  this  means  that  throughout  most 
of  the  volume,  l/N  (in  fact  throughout  0.999  1/A^)  p  is  independent 
of  r.  Effectively,  the  entire  volume  1/iV  has  been  drained  of  ions,  i.e., 
they  have  been  trapped.  The  total  ion  content  at  time  t,  may  then  be 
taken  as  the  product  of  p,  given  by  (C22),  with  1/iV,  that  is, 

N  +  (N  -  M)e-'""''''  (C23)  : 

The  time  rate  of  change  of  this  content  must  be  given  by  the  flux  Airr  J*. 

^[Ar+  (iV  -  M)e-''^'^°'] 

,  ,  (C24)l 

=  -mDo(N  -  M)e-'"^°'  =  47rrV*(r,  t) 

=   -AwRN^D^e-''"'''' 

in  which  (C21)  has  been  substituted  into  (10.16)  to  pass  from  the  third 
to  the  fourth  expression.  Comparing  the  second  and  fourth  term  of  (C24) 
reveals 


or 


1 KkTjN  -  M) 

""  ~  771'Do  ~     Wn'Do 

the  value  quoted  in  (10.25). 


(C26) 


chemical  interactions  among  defects  in  ge  and  si       623 

Appendix  D 

minimization  of  the  diffusion  potential 

In  Section  V  the  statement  was  made  that  equation  (11.2)  was  a  valid 
approximation  everywhere  within  a  p  type  region,  provided  that  No 
did  not  fluctuate  through  ranges  of  order  A^^  in  shorter  distances  than 


=   4/^  (Dl) 


This  statement  will  now  be  proved. 
The  electrostatic  potential  is  determined  by  the  space  charge  equation 


31 


dx^ 


where  we  assume  that  the  material  is  everywhere  p-type  so  that  the  elec- 
tron density,  n,  does  not  enter  the  right  side  of  (D2).  Furthermore,  the 
mobility  of  holes  is  so  much  greater  than  that  of  donor  ions  that  the  for- 
mer may  be  considered  to  always  be  at  equilibrium  with  respect  to  the 
distribution  of  the  latter.  Boltzmann's  law^^  may  then  be  applied  to  p. 
The  result  is 

p  =  Na  exp  [-qV/kT]  (D3) 

where  the  potential  is  taken  to  be  zero  when  p  =  A^^  . 

Choose  an  arbitrary  point,  Xo ,  where  the  potential  is  Vo  and  investi- 
gate (D2)  in  its  neighborhood.  We  wish  to  determine  the  conditions  under 
which  the  right  side  of  (D2)  may  be  approximated  by  zero,  i.e.,  the  "no- 
space-charge  condition,"  in  this  neighborhood.  The  limits  of  the  neigh- 
borhood will  be  defined  such  that 

\V  -  Vol  =  \n\  ^  kT/2q  (D4) 

so  that,  in  it,  the  exponential  in  (D3)  can  be  linearized 

p  =  Na  exp  [-  gVo/kT]  (l  -  ||)  (D5) 

jThen  (D2)  becomes 

i~  =  ^  Ina  [1  -  exp  (-  qVo/kT)]  -  Noix) 


+ 


w  ^^p  ^~  ^^°/^^^ 


u\ 


(D6) 


624  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

The  no  space  charge  condition  in  the  defined  region  is  therefore 

^  ^  Arexp(,yoAT)\  ^,         ^  ,kT\  exp(-gFoAr)-l 
\  q^A  /  \q/      exp  {-  qVo/kT) 

To  simplify  notation  define 

expi-qVo/kT]  =  70  (D8) 

Next  expand  both  No  and  u  in  Fourier  series  i 

00 
Nd  =  ^  As  sin  sx  +  Bs  cos  sx  (D9) 


s=0 

00 


u 


=  2Z  «3  sin  s-x  +  jSa  cos  sa:  (DIO) 


»=o 


Substitution  of  (D9)  and  (DIO)  into  (D6)  and  equating  coefficients  of 
like  terms  leads  to  the  set  of  relations 

/3o  =  4^  [^^(-^0  -  1)  +  ^J  (1^11) 

K     \1  +  (s2/V47r-7o)/ 
Now  the  wavelength  of  the  sth  component  in  (D9)  is 

X.  =  27r/s  (D14)' 

If  N'd  contains  no  important  components  of  wavelength  shorter  than 


Vto 


(D15) 


the  Bk  for  such  components  may  be  set  equal  to  zero.  But  then  the  only- 
terms  which  appear  in  (D12)  and  (D13)  are  terms  where  the  denomina- 
tors which  (with  the  aid  of  (D14))  may  be  written  as 

may  be  set  equal  to  k.  Thus  we  have  in  place  of  (D12)  and  (D13) 

a,  =  ^As=  4^  As  (D17) 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  625 

^.  =  5-i  5,  =  -P-  B,  (D18) 

KIT  qJS  AlO 

The  requirement  that  No  contain  no  Fourier  terms  of  wavelength  shorter 
than  (D15)  is  obviously  the  condition  that  No  never  pass  from  its 
maximum  to  its  minimum  value  in  a  distance  shorter  than  D(15).  Since 
we  are  assuming  that  Nd  may  at  places  be  of  order  Na  ,  and  at  others, 
of  order  zero,  this  amounts  to  the  condition  that  No  does  not  fluctuate 
over  ranges  comparable  with  A^^  in  distances  shorter  than  (D15). 
The  use  of  (Dll),  (D17),  and  (D18)  in  (DIO)  yields 

kT 


u 


qNaJo 


NAiyo  —  I)  +  '^  (As  sin  sx  +  B^  cos  sx) 

«=o  J     , 

(D19) 


^  kT  (70  -  1)    ,kT_ND 
q      (to)  qyo  Na 

which  by  reference  to  the  definition  (D8)  for  70  proves  to  be  identical 
with  (D7),  the  no-space- charge  condition. 

Equation  (D19)  is  only  true  when  No  does  not  fluctuate  through 
ranges  of  order,  Na  ,  in  distances  smaller  than  //\/7o  .  This  distance  de- 
pends on  7o  and  thus  on  the  point  where  V  =  Vo ,  whose  neighborhood 
is  being  explored.  Thus,  we  may  say  that  there  will  be  no  space  charge 
at  all  points  whose  Vo  is  such  as  to  fix  70  at  a  value  such  that 

70  >  .-2-  (D20) 

Amin 

where  Xmin  is  the  minimum  wavelength  which  needs  to  be  considered  in 
the  Fourier  expansion  of  Nd  .  In  terms  of  the  definition  of  70  this  means 

Vo  <—in^  ■      (D21) 

q  (?■ 

Thus,  at  all  points  where  Fo  is  less  than  the  right  side  of  (D21)  the  no 
space  charge  approximation  will  hold.  (D21)  shows,  that  in  the  limit 
when  Xmin  goes  toward  zero,  i.e.  when  the  infinite  series  must  be  used 
for  N n  ,  the  right  side  of  (D21)  will  approach  —  00  and  Fo  will  satisfy 
(D21)  hardly  anywhere.  Thus  space  charge  will  exist  almost  eveiy where. 
I  In  most  diffusion  problems  the  extremes  of  potential  will  occur  in  re- 
Igions  where  there  is  no  space  charge.  Thus  in  one  extreme  N d  may  equal 
jO.9  N A  and  in  the  other  it  may  equal  zero.  If  there  is  no  space  charge  in 
(these  extremes  we  may  write  for  them 

NA-Nn  =  V  =  Na  exp  i-qV/kT)  (D22) 

in  which  (D3)  has  been  used.  Setting  N d  equal  to  zero  in  one  extreme 


626  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

yields  F  =  0.  In  the  other  extreme  No  =  0.9  A'' a  so  that  we  get 

l-T 
7  =  ^  ^n  10  (D23) 

Q 

This  therefore  is  the  largest  value  which  Vo  may  assume  in  our  case. 
Inserting  the  expression  in  D21  in  place  of  Vo  we  end  with  the  relation 

10  <  ^  (D24) 

Thus  provided  that  in  the  distribution  being  considered 

Xmin  >  3.5^  (D25) 

there  will  be  no  space  charge  anywhere. 

At  high  temperatures  0.1  Na  may  be  less  than  rii .  Under  these  condi- 
tions (D24)  should  be  replaced  by 

12a.     ^    Amrn  ^j^26) 

rii  P 

and  in  the  limit  that  rii  becomes  very  large  it  is  obvious  that  (D26)  will 
always  be  satisfied.  The  rule  to  be  enunciated  for  the  cases  we  shall  be 
interested  in  is  the  one  given  in  section  XI,  i.e.  that  no  space  charge  will 
exist  provided  that  X  min  is  no  less  than  order,  /. 

Appendix  E 
calculation   of   diffusivities    from   conductances   of   diffusion 

LAYERS 

In  this  appendix  equation  (11.12)  will  be  derived.  In  the  first  place 
we  note  that  the  dependence  of  Nd  on  position  x,  and  time  t,  will  be  of 
the  form  Nc{x/\/t)  at  any  stage  of  the  diffusion  process.  This  results 
from  a  theorem  due  to  Boltzmann^^  that  when  the  dependence  of  D  upon 

X  and  t  is  of  the  form  D(Nd),  i.e.,  the  dependence  is  through  Nd  ,  and  a 
semi-infinite  region  extending  from  x  =  0  to  a:  =  oo  is  being  considered, 
then,  in  the  case  of  plane  parallel  diffusion,  the  only  variable  in  the  prob- 
lem will  be  x/\/}. 

Although  the  wafers  considered  in  Section  XI  are  of  finite  thickness  d, 
the  stages  of  diffusion  investigated  are  such  that  the  two  regions  of  loss 
near  the  surfaces  have  not  contacted  each  other.  As  a  result  the  system 
behaves  like  two  semi-infinite  regions  backed  against  one  another,  and 
the  preceding  arguments  hold.  The  conductance  2,  defined  in  section 

XI  will  be  proportional  to  the  integral  of  the  product  of  the  local  carrier 


1 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND   Si  627 


density  by  the  local  mobility.  Thus 

S  =  CO  /      ix(x,  t)[NA  -  ND{x,t)]dx 


(El) 


where  co  is  a  proportionality  constant  and  n(x,  t)  is  the  local  mobility. 
An  upper  limit  of  d/2  rather  than  d  is  used  because  of  symmetry.  The 
local  mobility  will  vary  because  No  ,  and  therefore  the  local  density  of 
charged  impurity  scatterers,  varies.  Let  No  be  the  initial  uniform  den- 
sity (before  any  diffusion  out)  of  donors,  and  write  (El)  as 


pan 

S  =  CO  n(x,  t)[NA  -  No   +  No°  -  Nn(x,  t)]  dx 

''0 
=    CO     /  IX{X,   t)[NA.    -    Nd]  dx   +    CO     /        li{x,  t)[ND 

Jo  Jo 


(E2) 


-  NdCxjOj^x 


The  second  integral  on  the  right  of  (E2)  is  given  the  upper  limit  co , 
because  in  the  experiments  we  wish  to  perform  No  —  No  becomes  zero 
long  before  x  reaches  d/2. 

Now  in  the  first  integral  on  the  right  of  (E2)  we  may  set  fjL(x,  t)  equal 
to  the  constant  value  no ,  which  it  assumes  in  the  bulk  of  the  wafer,  be- 
cause the  breadth  of  the  depletion  layer  near  the  surface  (in  which 
(i(x,  t)  departs  from  juo)  is  small  compared  to  d/2.  The  same  thing  can- 
not be  done  in  the  second  integral  since  the  integrand  vanishes  beyond 
the  depletion  layer  and  the  total  contribution  comes  from  that  layer. 
We  thus  obtain 


2  =  com''(N^  -  Nz,°)  d/2 


+  C0 


X 


"VV?, 


.^"°  -  ^°  ivi)] "" 


(E3) 


In  the  integral  in  (E3)  both  /x  and  No  are  represented  as  functions  of 
x/-\/i,  the  latter  because  of  what  has  been  said  above,  and  the  former, 
because  it  is  a  function  of  the  latter.  Defining 

V  =  x/2\/Dt  (E4) 

in  which  D  is  constant,  and  substituting  in  (E3)  gives  finally 

2  =  co/Xo(N^  -  N/)f//2  +  2o^\/Di   f    m('')[Nz,°  -  Nx,(^)]rf^     (E5) 

Jo 


628  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Since  the  definite  integral  is  a  constant  (E5)  shows  that  S  is  a  Hnear 
function  of  s/t^  a  fact  mentioned  in  section  XL 

In  order  to  make  use  of  the  measured  dependence  of  2  on  -sfi  to 
determine  diffusivities,  the  functions  y.{y)  and  A^d(v)  must  be  specified. 
For  the  latter  we  shall  assume  the  Fick's  law  solution  " 

Ar„  =  AT^"  erf  v  (E6) 

going  with  constant  Z),  and  "N d  =  0  as  a  boundary  condition  at  a;  =  0 
at  the  surface.  (In  section  XI  the  limitations  of  this  assumption  in  the 
presence  of  ion  pairing  and  diffusion  potential  are  discussed.)  The  v 
dependence  of  \x  is  more  complicated.  In  general,  we  shall  be  concerned 
with  electrical  measurements  in  two  extreme  cases.  In  the  first  case 
ion  pairing,  under  the  condition  of  measurement,  is  everywhere  com- 
plete so  that  the  local  density  of  scatterers  will  be  given  by 

l^A  -  NM  (E7) 

In  the  other  case  ion  pairing  will  be  entirely  absent,  so  that  the  local 
scatterer  density,  will  be  specified  by 

N^  +  NoM  (E8) 

In  all  experiments  A^^  will  be  only  slightly  greater  than  Nd  so  that  it 
may  be  replaced  by  this  quantity.  Doing  this,  and  substituting  (E6) 
into  (E8)  and  (E9)  gives 

No'  erfc  V  =  N{v)  (E9) 

for  the  scattering  density  in  the  ion  pairing  case,  and 

Nn'a  +  erf  v)  =  N(v)  (ElO) 

for  the  no  pairing  case. 

Since  almost  all  our  experiments  have  been  in  germanium  we  now 
specialize  our  attention  to  that  substance.  However,  the  procedure  in- 
voked below  can  be  applied  to  silicon  as  well. 

The  dependence  of  hole  mobility,  n,  on  scattering  density,  A^,  for  ger- 
manium at  room  temperature  is  shown  in  Fig.  30  taken  from  Prince's 
data.^^  The  integral  in  (E5)  assumes  the  form 


Nz,"  [  fxCNiv))  eric  vdv.  (Ell) 

Jo 


Choosing  N{v)  as  either  (E9)  or  (ElO)  and  using  Fig.  30  together  with  a 
tabic  of  error  functions  makes  the  numerical  evaluation  of  (Ell)  possible. 
Since  N(v)  given  by  (E9)  or  (ElO)  depends  on  No,  so  will  the  integral. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND   Si  629 


Q 

Z 


y  <;uuu 



in 

>   (600 

Lll 

^^ 

^^ 

N 

s. 

5   (200 

z 

\ 

\, 

\ 

in 

lU 

d     800 

I 

u. 

\ 

V. 

\ 

V 

O 

> 

\ 

t     400 

_) 

CD 
O 

5 

h-        0 

X 

o 


10' 


10'^  (0'^  (0'°  (0' 

CONCENTRATION    OF    IONIZED    IMPURITIES    IN    CM"^ 


(0" 


Fig.  30  —  Plot  of  hole-drift  mobility  in  germanium  as  a  function  of  ionized 
impurity  concentration  after  Prince. 

The  numerical  evaluation  has  been  performed  for  a  range  of  Nd^  in 
both  the  pairing  and  non-pairing  cases.  In  this  manner  it  has  been  pos- 
sible to  evaluate  the  "correction  factor"  t^  defined  by  the  following  equa- 
tion 


/     niv)  erfc  V  dv  =  t?M«>  /     erfc  v 
Jq  Jo 

=  t?Moc(0.563) 


dv 


(E12) 


where  /i^  is  the  mobility  in  the  presence  of  A^^  scatterers.  Fig.  22  contains 
plots  (for  germanium)  of  i}(ND°)  versus  A^d"  for  both  the  pairing  and  non- 
pairing  cases.  It  is  seen  that  t>  is  never  much  different  from  unity. 
Equation  (E5)  can  now  be  written  as 

2    =    a;Mo(A^^    -    ND°)d/2   +    COM  [i .l2St}N ^W D]\/t     (E13) 


Defining 


2o  =  coMoCN^  -  ^z>°)d/2 

^00     —      X 


(E14) 
(E15) 


it  is  obvious  that  So  is  the  conductance  before  any  donor  has  diffused 


630  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

out  and  S^  after  all  the  donor  has  been  diffused  out.  With  these  defini- 
tions (E16)  becomes 


./...,  ?-^  (^^-N^,)  V.  (-)  = 

Calling  the  slope  of  this  curve  S  leads  to  the  result 


I 


or  using  (E14)  and  (E15) 


) 


D  =  (  _^^iAZ£_  )  (E19) 

This  is  equivalent  to  equation  (11.12). 

Glossary  of  Symbols 

a  distance  of  closest  approach  of  two  ions  of  opposite  sign 

A  constant  in  expression  for  p  in  section  on  relaxation  theory,' 

A~  concentration  of  ionized  acceptors 

^0  Ar,  going  with  t?  =  0 

Ai  Ar,  going  with  rji 

Aj,  constant  preceding  the  Tjth  eigenfunction  in  solution  of  the! 

relaxation  problem 

A,  coefficient  of  sin  sx  in  Fourier  expression  for  No 

h  q^/2KkT,  position  of  minimum  in  g(r) 

B  constant  in  expression  for  p  in  section  on  relaxation  theory 

B~  boron  ion  \ 

B(Si)  un-ionized  boron  in  silicon  ; 

Bs  coefficient  of  cos  sx  in  Fourier  expression  for  No 

c(r)  concentration  of  positive  ions  in  atmosphere  of  a  negative 

ion 

C  concentration  of  LiB~ 

d  thickness  of  wafer  in  diffusion  experiment 

D  diffusivity  of  donor  ion  in  the  most  general  sense 

Do  diffusivity  of  donor  ion  m  the  absence  of  pairing 

D"*"  concentration  of  ionized  donors 

Do"*"  value  of  D^  in  the  absence  of  acceptor 

D*^  concentration  of  mobile  donor  ions  where  V  =  0 

e~  conduction  band  electron 

valence  band  hole 


.+ 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  631 

,  e^e"  recombined  hole-electron  pair 

E  energy  level  in  electron  gas 

Ed  ionization  energy  of  a  donor 

I  Ea  ionization  energy  of  an  acceptor 

Ei  energy  level  in  conduction  band 

j  E{r)  chance  that  volume  47rr  /3  will  not  contain  an  ion 

I  /  flux  density 

t  F  Fermi  level  —  also  constant  in  equation  (7.21) 

!  Qi  density  of  states  of  energy  Ei  in  conduction  band 

'  g{r)  nearest  neighbor  distribution  function  at  equilibrium 

I  G  Gibbs  free  energy  of  electron  assembly 

GaT  gallium  ion  in  germanium 

(?„  space  dependent  part  of  relaxation  eigenfunction 

;  Go  G,  for  77  =  0 

Gi  Gr,  for  r?  =  171 

h  Plank's  constant  —  also  used  for  normalizing  constant  in 

c(r) 

hj  number  of  holes  in  the  jth  energy  level 

H  net  local  density  of  fixed  donors 

i{p2 ,  pi)  £^/(r2 ,  n) 

I  field  current  in  diffusion  measurement 

I(r2 ,  ri)  integral  for  ion  pairing  calculations  taken  between  ri  and  rz 

J(r)  current  in  the  atmosphere  of  a  nearest  neighbor 

J*  flux  density  of  ions  being  trapped 

k  Boltzmann's  constant 

fci  first  order  rate  constant  in  relaxation  theory 

^2  second  order  rate  constant  in  relaxation  theory 

Ko  distribution  coefficient  of  donor  between  semiconductor  and 

external  phase 

Ki  electron-hole  recombination  equilibrium  constant 

Ka  ionization  constant  of  acceptor 

Kd  ionization  constant  of  donor 

Kj  constant  relating  wy  to  volume,  V 

K*  product  oi  Kd  ,  Ko,  and  a 

I  screening  length  for  diffusion  potential 

L  Debye  length  —  also  used  for  radius  of  volume,  1/A^ 

Li^  lithium  ion 

Li(Sn)  lithium  in  molten  tin 

Li{Si)  un-ionized  lithium  in  silicon 

LiSi  lithium-silicon  complex 

LiB  un-ionized  LiB~ 


632  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

IAB~  lithium-boron  complex  ion  in  semiconductor 

[Li^BT]      lithium-boron  ion  pair 

[Li^GaT]    lithium-gallium  ion  pair 

mo  normal  mass  of  electron 

mp  effective  mass  of  a  hole 

M  normalizing  constant  in  relaxation  theory 

n  concentration  of  conduction  electrons  —  also  used  for  density 

of  untrapped  ions  in  relaxation 

rii  intrinsic  concentration  of  electrons 

N A  total  acceptor  concentration 

Nd  total  donor  concentration 

Nd  total  solubility  of  donor  in  undoped  semiconductor — also  used 

for  initial  density  of  donors  in  diffusion  experiments 

N  ion  concentration  in  an  electrolyte  solution — also  used  for  initial 

value  of  n  in  relaxation — also  used  for  concentration  of  im- 
mobile donors  in  Appendix  A 

Nd*  solubility  of  donor  in  absence  of  ion  pairing  in  Appendix  A 

p  concentration  of  holes 

P  concentration  of  ion  pairs 

q  charge  on  an  ion 

Q{a)  tabulated  integral  for  computing  9, 

r  distance  between  positive  and  negative  ions  in  a  pair 

ri  a  particular  value  of  r 

rt  a  particular  value  of  r 

R  capture  radius  of  an  ion  in  relaxation 

S  slope  of  2/So  versus  -\/f  curve 

S^  time  dependent  part  of  relaxation  eigenfunction  belonging 

to  eigenvalue  t] 

t  time 

T  temperature 

u  V  -Vo 

V  electrostatic  potential  —  also  used  for  volume  —  also  used 

for  potential  difference  between  probe  points  —  also  used  for] 
potential  energy  of  a  positive  in  neighborhood  of  negative 
ion 

Vo  electrostatic  potential  where  x  =  Xq 

X  variable  of  integration  - —  same  as  r  also  rectangular  position 

coordinate 

Xo  special  value  of  a:. 


1 


CHEMICAL   INTEEACTIONS   AMONG   DEFECTS   IN    Ge   AND    Si  633 

zja — also  used  for  thermodynamic  activity  of  donor  in  external 
phase 

coefficient  of  sin  sx  in  Fourier  expression  for  u 
constant  in  exponential  in  LiB~  equilibrium  constant 
constant  in  exponential  in  expression  for  vacancy  concentra- 
tion 

/3s  for  s  =  0 

coefficient  of  cos  8X  in  fourier  expression  for  u 
pre-exponential  factor  in  LiB~  equilibrium  constant 
pre-exponential  factor  in  expression  for  vacancy  concentra- 
tion 

exp[-gFoAT] 

non-equilibrium  nearest  neighbor  distribution  function 
constant  appearing  in  Appendix  C 

eigenvalue  in  relaxation  problem 
second  eigenvalue  in  set  of  q 
fraction  of  donor  paired 
correction  factor  for  variable  carrier  mobility 
dielectric  constant 
xje 

2ir/s,  wavelength  of  sth  component  of  fourier  series 
wavelength  of  component  of  fourier  series  for  No  ,  having 
minimum  wavelength 

chemical  potential  of  donor  in  an  external  phase  —  also  used 
for  mobility  of  donor  ion  —  also  used  for  local  carrier  mo- 
bility 

chemical  potential  of  donor  in  external  phase  in  standard  state 
chemical  potential  of  donor  ion 
chemical  potential  of  donor  ion  in  the  standard  state 
chemical  potential  of  an  electron 
chemical  potential  of  donor  atom  in  semiconductor 
chemical  potential  of  donor  atom  in  standard  state 
mobility  of  donor  atom  at  infinite  dilution  —  also  used  for 
carrier  mobility  in  diffusion  experiments  before  diffusion 
carrier  mobility  in  diffusion  experiments  after  all  diffusant 
has  diffused  out 
x/2VDt 
e/r. 

LiBT  equilibrium  constant 
resistivity  of  gallium-doped  germanium  after  saturation  with 


634  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

lithium  —  also  used  for  local  charge  density  in  Poisson's 

equation  —  also  used  for  density  of  diffusing  positive  ions  in 

relaxation 
Po  resistivity   of  gallium-doped   germanium  before  saturation 

with  lithium  .  J 

Pi  n/e  I 

a  conductivity  during  relaxation  | 

a^  conductivity  in  relaxed  state 

S  conductance  between  probe  points 

So  conductance  before  diffusion  begins  in  diffusion  experiments; 

S„  conductance  after  diffusion  is  over  in  diffusion  experiments 

T  relaxation  time 

$  constant  in  relaxation  formula  for  conductivity 

"^  local  electrostatic  potential  in  ionic  atmosphere 

w  proportionality   constant   connecting   conductance   between 

probe  points  with  integral  over  carrier  concentration 

CO;  number  of  states  in  jih.  level  of  electronic  energy  diagram 

0  ion  pairing  equilibrium  constant 

D  vacant  lattice  site  in  covalent  crystal 

n~  negatively  charged  cation  vacancy 


REFERENCES 

1.  Wagner,  C,  Z.  Phys.  Chem.,  B21,  p.  25,  1933,  B32,  p.  447,  1936. 

2.  Taylor,  H.  S.,  and  Taylor,  H.  A.,  Elementary  Physical  Chemistry,  p.  343, 

Van  Nostrand,  1937. 

3.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  6,  Van  Nostrand, 

1950. 

4.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  Van  Nostrand,  1950. 

5.  Reiss,  H.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  21,  p.  1209,  1953. 

6.  Reiss,  H.,  and  Fuller,  C.  S.,  J.  Metals,  12,  p.  276,  1956. 

7.  Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Ditzenberger,  J.  A.,  J.  App.  Phys.,  25,  p.  1439,  1954. 

8.  Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Ditzenberger,  J.  A.,  Phys.  Rev.,  91,  p.  193,  1953. 

9.  MacDougall,  F.  H.,  Thermodynamics  and  Chemistry,  p.  143,  Wiley,  1939. 

10.  Miller,  F.  W.,  Elementary  Theory  of  Qualitative  Analysis,  p.  102,  Century. 

Company,  New  York,  1929. 

11.  Fuller.  C.  S.,  Record  of  Chemical  Progress,  17,  No.  2, 1956. 

12.  Wagner,  C,  and  Grunewald,  K.,  Z.  Phys.  Chem.,  B40,  p.  455,  1938. 

13.  von  Baumbach,  H.  H.,  and  Wagner,  C,  Z.  Phys.  Chem.,  22B,  p.  199,  1933. 

14.  Kroger,  F.  A.,  and  Vink,  H.  J.,  Physica,  20,  p.  950,  1954. 

15.  MacDougall,  F.  H.,  Thermodynamics  and  Chemistry,  p.  258,  Wiley,  1939. 

16.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  231,  Van  Nostrand, 

1950. 

17.  Mayer,  J.  E.,  and  Maver,  M.  G.,  Statistical  Mechanics,  p.  120,  Wiley,  1940. 

18.  MacDougall,  F.  H.,  thermodynamics  and  Chemistry,  p.  137,  Wiley,  1939. 

19.  Lewis,  G.  N.,  and  Randall,  M.  C,  Thermodynamics,  p.  258,  McGraw  Hill, 

1923. 


CHEMICAL   INTERACTIONS   AMONG    DEFECTS   IN   Ge   AND    Si  635 

20.  Mayer,  J.  E.,  and  Mayer,  M.  G.,  Statistical  Mechanics,  p.  121,  Wiley,  1940. 

21.  MacDougall   F.  H.,  Thermodynamics  and  Chemistry,  p.  261,  Wiley,  1939. 

22.  MacDougall,  F.  H.,  Thermodynamics  and  Chemistry,  p.  25,  Wiley,  1939. 

23.  Engell,  H.  J.,  and  HouiTe.  K.,  Z.  Electrochem.,  56,  p.  366,  1952,  57,  p.  762,  1953. 

24.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  15,  Van  Nostrand, 

1950. 

25.  Morin,  F.  J.,  and  Malta,  J.  P.,  Phys.  Rev.,  94,  p.  1525,  1954. 

26.  Morin,  F.  J.,  and  Malta,  J.  P.,  Phys.  Rev.,  96,  p.  28,  1954. 

•^7.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  86,  Van  Nostrand, 
1950. 

28.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  88,  Van  Nostrand, 

1950. 

29.  Fowler,  R.  H.,  Statistical  Mechanics,  p.  48,  Cambridge,  1929. 

30    Slater.  J.  C,  and  Frank,  N.  H.,  Introduction  to  Theoretical  Physics,  p.  212, 
McGraw  Hill,  1933. 

31.  Shockley,  W.,  B.S.T.J.,  28,  p.  435,  1949. 

32.  Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Ditzenberger,  J.  A.,  J.  App.  Phys.,  May,  1956. 

33.  Shulman,  R.  G.,  and  McMahon,  M.  E.,  J.  App.  Phys.,  24,  p.  1267,  1953. 

34.  Reiss,  H.,  Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Pietrusczkiewcz,  A.  J.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.  (in  press). 

35.  Eyring,  H.,  Walter,  J.,  and  Kimball,  G.  E.,  Quantum  Chemistry,  p.  231, 

Wiley,  1946. 

36.  Pauling,  L.,  The  Nature  of  the  Chemical  Bond,  p.  179.  Cornell,  1942. 

37.  Debye,  P.,  and  Huckel,  E.,  Phys.  Z.,  24,  p.  195,  1923. 

38.  Kirkwood,  J.  G.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  2,  p.  767,  1934. 

39.  Briggs,  H.  B.,  Phys.  Rev.,  77,  p.  287,  1950. 

40.  Briggs,  H.  B.,  Phys.  Rev.,  77,  p.  287,  1950. 

41.  Wyman,  Phys.  Rev.,  35,  p.  623,  1930. 

42.  Bjerrum,  N.,  Kgle.  Danske  Vidensk.  Selskab.,  7,  No.  9,  1926. 

43.  Fuoss,  R.  M.,  Trans.  Faraday  Soc,  30,  p.  967,  19.34. 

44.  Reiss,  H.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.  (in  press). 

45.  Reiss,  H.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.  (in  press). 

'46.  Shockley,  W.,  and  Read,  W.  T.,  Jr.,  Phys.  Rev.,  87,  p.  835,  1952,  Haynes,  J.  R., 
and  Hornbeck,  J.  A.,  Phys.  Rev.,  90,  p.  152,  1953,  97,  p.  311,  1955. 

47.  Harned  and  Owen,  The  Physical  Chemistry  of  Electrolytes,  p.  123,  A.  C.  S. 

Monograph,  1950. 

48.  Carslaw,  H.  S.,  and  Jaeger,  J.  C,  Conduction  of  Heat  in  Solids,  p.  209,  Oxford, 

1948. 
i49.  Glasstone,  S.,  Textbook  of  Physical  Chemistry,  p.  1231,  Van  Nostrand,  1940. 
'50.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  300,  Van  Nostrand, 

1950. 
51.  Slater,  J.  C,  and  Frank,  N.  H.,  Introduction  to  Theoretical  Physics,  p.  186, 
I  McGraw  Hill,  1933. 

;52.  Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Severiens,  J.  C,  Phys.  Rev.,  95,  p.  21,  1954. 
l53.  Shockley,  W.,  B.S.T.J.,  28,  p.  435,  1949. 
")4.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  p.  258,  Van  Nostrand, 

1950.  ■ 
|55.  Theuerer,  H.  C,  U.  S.  Pat.  No.  2542727. 

'56.  Margeneau,  H.,  and  Murphy,  G.  M.,  The  Mathematics  of  Physics  and  Chem- 
istry, p.  213,  Van  Nostrand,  1943. 
157.  Margeneau,  H.,  and  Murphy,  G.  M.,  The  Mathematics  of  Physics  and  Chem- 
i  istry,  p.  72,  Van  Nostrand,  1943. 

58.  Reiss;"  H.,  and  LaMer,  V.  K.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  18,  p.  1.  1950. 
,59.  Reiss,  H.,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  19,  p.  482,  1951. 
[60.  Carslaw,  H.  S.,  and  Jaeger.  J.  C.  Conduction  of  Heat  in  Solids,  p.  40,  Oxford, 

1948. 
tU.  Boltzmann,  L.,  Ann.  Phys.,  53,  p.  959,  1894. 
62.  Carslaw,  H.  S.,  and  Jaeger,  J.  C,  Conduction  of  Heat  in  Solids,  p.  41,  Oxford, 

1948. 
•  3.  Prince,  M.  B.,  Phys.  Rev.,  92,  p.  681,  1953,  93.  p.  1204,  1954. 
lU.  Tvler,W.  W.,  and  Woodbury,  H.  H.,Bull.  Am.  Phys.  Soc,  30,  No.  7,  p.  32, 1955. 
'i.').  Debye,  P.  P.,  Conwell,  E.  M.,  Phys.  Rev.,  93,  p.  693,  1954. 


636  THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

66.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  Chapter  8,  Van  Nos- 

trand,  1950. 

67.  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  Chapter  16,  Van  Nos- 

trand,  1950. 

68.  Geballe,  T.  H.,  and  Morin,  F.  J.,  Phys.  Rev.,  95,  p.  1085, 1954. 

69.  Conant,J. B., The  Chemistry  of  OrganicCompounds,p.  196,Macmillan,  1939. 

70.  Valenta,  M.,  and  Ramasastry,  C,  Symposium  on  Semiconductors,  Meeting 

I.M.D.,  and  A.I.M.E.,  Feb.  20,  1956. 

71.  Longini,  R.  E.,  and  Green,  R.,  Phys.  Rev.  (in  press). 


I 


Single  Crystals  of  Exceptional  Perfection 
and  Uniformity  by  Zone  Leveling 

By  D.  C.  BENNETT  and  B.  SAWYER 

(Manuscript  received  January  23,  1956) 

The  zone-leveling  process  has  been  developed  into  a  simple  and  effective 
tool,  capable  of  growing  large  single  crystals  having  high  lattice  perfection 
and  containing  an  essentially  uniform  distribution  of  one  or  more  desired 
impurities.  Experimental  work  with  germanium  is  discussed,  and  the  possi- 
bility of  broad  application  of  the  principles  involved  is  indicated. 

IXTRODUCTION 

The  first  publication  describing  the  concept  of  zone  melting  appeared 
about  four  j^ears  ago.^  As  there  defined,  the  term  zone  melting  designates 
a  class  of  solidification  techniques,  all  of  which  involve  the  movement  of 
one  or  more  liquid  zones  through  an  elongated  charge  of  meltable  ma- 
terial. This  simple  concept  has  opened  a  whole  new  field  of  possibilities 
for  utilizing  the  principles  of  melting  and  solidification. 

The  first  zone  melting  technique  to  gain  widespread  usage  was  one  for 
zone  refining  germanium  by  the  passage  of  a  number  of  liquid  zones  in 
succession  through  a  germanium  charge.  This  process  may  be  quite  prop- 
erly compared  to  distillation,  the  essential  difference  being  that  the 
change  in  phase  is  from  solid  to  liquid  and  back,  instead  of  from  liquid 
to  vapor  and  back.  The  zone  refining  technique  has  been  eminently  suc- 
cessful in  the  purification  of  germanium.  Harmful  impurity  concentra- 
tions are  of  the  order  of  one  part  in  10^".  This  is  mainly  because  all  the 
impurities  whose  segregation  behavior  in  freezing  germanium  has 
been  measured  have  segregation  coefficients  (see  equation  1)  differing 
from  1  by  an  order  of  magnitude  or  more.^  During  the  zone  refining 
;  operation,  these  impurities  collect  in  the  liquid  zones  and  are  swept 
with  them  to  the  ends  of  the  charge,  which  may  be  later  removed. 


1  Pfann,  W.  G.,  Trans.  A.I.M.E.,  194,  p.  747,  1952. 

^  Burton,  J.  A.,  Impurity  centers  in  Germanium  and  Silicon,  Physica,  20,  p. 

845,  1954. 

637 


638  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

This  paper  deals  with  a  second  zone  melting  process,  zone  leveling,^'  ^ 
which  has  gained  usage  somewhat  more  slowly  than  zone  refining,  but 
which  has  proved  to  be  a  highly  effective  tool  for  distributing  desired 
impurities  uniformly  throughout  a  charge.  For  this  process,  only  one 
liquid  zone  is  used  and  its  composition  is  adjusted  to  produce  the  desired 
impurity  concentration  in  the  material  which  is  solidified  from  the  liq- 
uid zone.  Appropriate  precautions  are  taken  to  insure  the  production  of 
single  crystals,  if  the  material  is  desired  in  this  form. 

Since  the  invention  of  zone  leveling,  the  process  has  been  developed 
into  a  precision  tool  and  as  such  it  has  become  a  preferred  practical 
method  for  growing  germanium  single  crystals  of  uniform  donor  or  ac- 
ceptor content.  It  is  the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  discuss  the  technical 
development  of  this  process,  which  has  had  two  chief  objectives:  (1)  the 
attainment  of  the  greatest  possible  uniformity  of  donor  and/or  acceptor 
impurity  distribution  in  the  crystal ;  and  (2)  the  attainment  of  a  germa- 
nium crystal  lattice  with  a  minimum  of  imperfections  of  all  kinds.  The 
presentation  will  cover  the  principles  involved,  the  means  developed 
and  results  achieved  toward  these  objectives  in  that  order. 

The  first  applications  of  the  principles  of  zone  melting  have  been  in 
the  field  of  semiconductor  materials  processing,  chiefly  because  there  are 
tio  other  known  refining  techniques  capable  of  meeting  the  extremely 
stringent  purity  requirements  necessary  for  material  to  be  used  in  semi- 
conductor devices.  Nevertheless,  it  is  clear  that  these  relatively  simple 
and  very  effective  zone  melting  techniques  are  beginning  to  find  a  wide 
variety  of  useful  applications  throughout  the  general  fields  of  metallurgy 
and  chemical  engineering. 

BASIC    PRINCIPLES 

The  basic  concept,  theory  and  experimental  confirmation  of  zone  level- 
ing have  been  well  covered  in  previous  publications.'- '  Accordingly,  the 
intention  here  is  only  to  repeat  the  salient  points  of  the  theory  with  a 
special  emphasis  on  the  assumptions  involved  since  it  will  be  necessary 
to  refer  to  them. 

Fig.  1  is  a  schematic  drawing  of  a  zone  leveling  operation  showing  a 
liquid  zone  of  constant  volume  containing  a  solute  whose  concentration 
is  Cl  .  As  the  zone  moves  a  distance  Ax  an  increment  of  germanium  is 
melted  at  the  right  end,  and  another  is  frozen  at  the  left  end.  The 
concentration  of  solute  in  the  newly  frozen  Ax  of  solid  solution  is  Cs  • 
The  distribution  coefficient  k  is  now  conveniently  defined  as  the  ratio 


»  Pfann,  W.  G.,  and  Olsen,  K.  M.,  Physical  Review,  89,  p.  322,  1953. 


SINGLE    CRYSTAL    BY   ZONE   LEVELING 


of  these  solute  concentrations: 


k  = 


639 


(1) 


When  A-  <  1 ,  the  freezing  interface  may  be  regarded  as  a  filter  permit- 
ting only  a  fraction  A:  of  the  solute  concentration  in  the  liquid  to  pass  into 
the  growing  solid  and  rejecting  the  rest  to  remain  in  the  liquid.  If  the 
unmelted  charge  of  solvent  is  pure  — ■  that  is,  if  no  solute  passes  into  the 
zone  at  the  melting  interface  it  is  readily  seen  that  the  liquid  zone  will  be 

:  gradually  depleted  of  its  solute  impurity  content  during  passage  through 
the  charge. 

An  expression  for  the  solute  concentration  in  the  solid,  Cs  ,  deposited 
there  by  the  passage  of  one  zone,  for  the  case  of  "starting  charge  into 

'  pure  solvent"  has  been  derivec^  based  on  the  following  assumptions: 

(1)  The  liquid  volume  is  constant  (both  cross  section  of  charge  and 
zone  length  I  are  constant). 

(2)  k  is  constant. 

!      (3)  Mixing  in  the  liquid  is  complete  (i.e.  concentration  in  the  liquid  is 
uniform). 

(4)  Diffusion  in  the  solid  is  negligible. 
I  The  expression  is 

i  Cs  =  kCo  e-'"'"  (2) 

where  Clq  is  the  initial  concentration  of  impurities  in  the  liquid,  I  is  the 
zone  length,  and  x  is  the  distance  moved  by  the  solidifying  interface.  A 
set  of  Cs  versus  x/l  curves  is  shown  in  Fig.  2  for  various  k's.  From  this 

'  figure  it  is  readily  seen  that  when  k  is  small  the  decay  of  Cs  is  slow  (i.e., 

I  the  depletion  of  Cl  is  slight). 

Largely  because  of  this  consideration,  most  of  the  practical  work  re- 

I  ported  in  this  paper  has  utilized  solutes  in  germanium  having  low  segre- 


MOVING    HEATER 

■ *■ 

cs^ 

'///////////, 

/ 
/ 

liquid  zone 
"and  impurity 

y 



SEED 

r3-_^L^F 

SOLID    Ge    CHARGE 

^W%M. 

AX-* 

«--£—> 

Fig.  1  —  Schematic  of  zone  leveling  operation. 


640 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


gation  coefficients  (usually  antimony,  whose  k  =  0.003  as  donor,  and 
indium  whose  k  =  0.001  as  acceptor).  However,  the  principles  of  zone 
leveling  are  broad  and  capable  of  application  to  any  solvent-solute  sys- 
tem within  the  range  of  solubilities  of  its  solid  and  liquid  phases.  The 
general  method  of  attack'  is  first  to  find  that  composition  of  the  liquid 
zone  which  will  deposit  the  desired  solid  solution.  Secondly,  if  one  or 
more  of  the  segregation  coefficients  involved  is  not  small,  the  liquid  zone 
must  be  maintained  at  its  proper  composition  by  admixing  to  the  solid 
charge  the  same  solutes  that  the  zone  will  deposit  in  its  product.  Thus 
the  solutes  that  are  removed  from  the  liquid  zone  at  the  freezing  end 
will  be  replenished  at  the  melting  end. 

The  above  mathematical  treatment  leads  one  to  expect  an  essentially 
uniform  solute  distribution  throughout  a  zone  leveled  crystal  for  the  case 
under  discussion  in  which  k  is  small  and  the  zone  moves  through  a  charge 
of  pure  solvent  as  indicated  in  Fig.  2.  Irregular  variations  of  Cs  along 
the  length  or  over  the  cross-section  of  the  ingot  are  not  predicted.  The 


CO 


=      1.0 
m    0.8 

!<     0.6 
_J 

UJ 

°'      0.4 

z 


in 
O 

z" 

o 

^ 

cr 

(- 
z 

UJ 

o 

z 
o 
u 


0.2 

o.to 

0.08 
0.06 

0.04 
0.02 
0.01 


- 

Cs  = 

kC, . 

p-Wi 

I 

Clq=i  except  for  k  =  o.oi 

1 

^l 

^ 

sK 

-r 

\ 

1 

\ 

^ 

\. 

.^k=o 

.01,  Cl 

0='°     . 

-"       T- 

^ 

NT 

-         \ 

N 

Sr-* 

_ai 

-          1 

\ 

\ 

v 

...,___^ 

-            ' 

1 

\ 

0. 

^\ 

\, 

k=5.o\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

ZONE -LENGTHS    SOLIDIFIED,   X/£ 


10 


Fig.  2  —  Solute  concentration  curves  predicted  for  zone  leveling  with  a  start- 
ing charge  of  solute  into  pure  solvent. 


SINGLE    CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING  641 

treatment  is  not  concerned  with  lattice  imperfections  in  the  ingot  such 
as  dislocations,  lineage,  or  grain  boundaries.  The  predictions  the  theory 
does  make  have  been  well  verified  by  experiment  insofar  as  it  has  been 
possible  to  meet  the  assumptions  enumerated  above.  However,  as  with 
most  assumptions,  their  validity  is  sensitive  to  the  experimental  condi- 
tions, particularly  in  the  cases  of  the  first  three.  Much  of  the  develop- 
ment effort,  especially  that  toward  improving  resistivity^  uniformity, 
has  been  directed  toward  controlling  the  process  so  that  these  assump- 
tions will  be  as  nearly  valid  as  possible. 

Early  experiments  in  zone  leveling  yielded  crystals  good  enough  to 
meet  device  reciuirements  of  that  time.  However,  as  semiconductor  de- 
vices were  designed  to  meet  tighter  design  requirements,  the  demands 
on  the  germanium  material  grew"  more  critical.  Under  these  circum- 
stances, it  became  necessary  to  examine  the  requirements  on  the  product 
of  the  process  and  what  precautions  would  be  necessary  to  insure  that  its 
operation  was  under  sufficient  control.  Accordingly,  we  shall  chscuss  first 
the  requirements  on  semiconductor  material  and  then  those  critical  as- 
pects of  the  leveling  operation  which  must  be  controlled  to  insure  quality 
of  the  final  product. 

liEQUIREMENTS   ON    GERMANIUM   FOR   SEMICONDUCTOR   USES 

The  basic  electrical  bulk  property  of  a  germanium  crystal  is  its  con- 
ductivity or  the  reciprocal  of  that  quantity,  its  resistivity.  For  a  great 
majority  of  semiconductor  uses,  an  extrinsic  conductivity*  is  required  in 
addition  to  the  3^o  ohm"~^  cm~'  intrinsic  conductivity  that  results  at 
room  temperature  from  thermal  excitation  of  electron-hole  pairs  in  pure 
•iermanium.  An  extrinsic  conductivity  may  be  either  n-type  or  p-type. 
Both  of  these  may  be  produced  by  trace  impurities  distributed  through- 
out the  crystal,  the  n-type  by  donor  impurities  and  the  p-type  by  accep- 
tor impurities.  At  room  temperature  donors  give  rise  to  conduction  elec- 
trons and  the  acceptors  to  conduction  holes  which  are  free  to  move 
within  the  germanium  crystal.  If  both  donors  and  acceptors  are  present 
in  the  same  crystal,  the  resulting  electrons  and  holes  recombine,  leaving 
essentially  the  extrinsic  conductivity  contributed  by  the  excess  of  one 
over  the  other,  that  is  by  |  No  —  A''^  i  . 

The  fundamental  requirement  is,  then,  to  control  the  net  donor  and 
1lie  acceptor  balance,  |  No  —  A^4  I  ,  tea  predetermined  value  throughout 
the  crystal.  For  most  applications,  the  conductivity  is  to  be  increased 
by  one  or  two  orders  of  magnitude  above  the  27°C  intrinsic  value.  An 
idea  of  the  donor  or  acceptor  concentrations  involved  may  be  acquired 

*  Shockley,  W.,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors. 


642  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

from  noting  that  a  conductivity  of  H  ohm"^  cm""^  (that  is,  a  conductivity 
increased  by  one  order  of  magnitude)  corresponds  to  a  No  —  Na  concen- 
tration of  7  parts  per  biUion. 

The  next  most  commonly  measured  bulk  property  of  germanium  is 
the  lifetime  of  minority  carriers,^  i.e.,  the  time  constant  for  decay  by 
recombination  of  a  surplus  population  of  minority  carriers  artificially 
introduced  into  the  crystal.  Minority  carriers  are  holes  in  n-type  ger- 
manium or  electrons  in  p-type  germanium.  This  time  constant  may  be 
regarded  reasonably  as  a  figure  of  merit  for  the  crystal,  being  an  indica- 
tion of  its  freedom  both  from  certain  chemical  impurities  and  from  crys- 
tal faults,  since  these  act  as  catalysts  to  the  electron-hole  recombination 
reaction.  Normally,  the  highest  possible  lifetime  is  desired.  Thus  it  be- 
comes important  to  take  extreme  precautions  during  handling  and  proc- 
essing of  the  germanium  to  avoid  contamination,  particularly  by  such 
known  recombination  center  elements  as  nickel  and  copper  and  it  is 
also  important  to  avoid  crystal  lattice  faults  such  as  dislocations,  line- 
age, and  grain  boundaries. 

Another  observable  c^uantity  has  recently  been  gaining  acceptance  as 
a  more  definite  indication  of  mechanical  crystal  perfection  than  the  mi- 
nority carrier  lifetime  measurement.  This  is  the  etch  pit  density  count, 
€,  (see  Fig.  3)  which  is  observed  microscopically  on  an  oriented  (111) 
surface  of  a  Ge  crystal  that  has  been  etched  three  minutes  in  an 
agitated  CP-4  etch  (20  parts  by  volume  concentrated  HNO3 ,  12  parts 
concentrated  HF,  12  parts  concentrated  acetic  acid,  and  3^^  part  Br2). 
There  is  strong  evidence  that  the  etch  pits  are  formed  at  the  intersections 
of  dislocations  with  the  surface  of  the  crystal.  While  an  etch  pit  count 
probably  indicates  only  certain  edge  dislocations  which  intersect  the  sur- 
face of  the  crystal,  it  is  at  least  a  relative  indication  of  the  total  dis- 
location density,  and  thus  appears  to  be  a  highly  useful  index  of  crystal 
lattice  perfection. 

In  the  last  year,  evidence  of  a  strong  correlation  has  been  observed 
between  certain  electrical  properties  of  alloy  junctions,  especially  the 
l)reakdown  voltage,  and  the  etch  pit  density  of  the  material  on  which 
the  alloy  junction  is  made.  Accordingly,  material  to  be  used  for  alloy 
junction  transistors  is  now  selected  on  the  basis  of  its  maximum  etch 
pit  count  and  its  freedom  from  lineage,  twin,  and  grain  boundaries. 

The  usual  device  test  requirements  on  n-  or  p-type  Ge  material  vary 


5  Valdes,  L.  B.,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  p.  1420,  1952. 

«  Vogel,  F.  L.,  Read  W.  T.,  and  Lovell,  L.  C,  Phys.  Rev.,  94,  ]).  1791, 1954. 
'  Vogel,  F.  L.,  Pfann,  W.  G.,  Corey,  H.  E.,  Thomas,  E.  E.,  Physical  Review, 
90,  p.  489,  1953. 

*  Zuk,  P.,  and  Westberg,  R.  W.,  private  communication. 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING 


643 


Fig.  3.  —  Microphotograph  of  Typical  Etch  Pits  on  (111)  Plane. 

from  device  to  device,  but  may  be  summarized  as  follows: 

(1)  Composition  —  The  donor-acceptor  balance  No  —  Na  must  be 
accurately  controlled  so  that  the  resistivity,  p,  of  the  crystal  is  uniform 
and  falls  within  acceptable  tolerance  limits. 

(2)  Macro  Perfection  —  The  crystal  shall  contain  no  grain  boundaries, 
lineage,  or  twinning. 

(3)  Micro  Perfection  —  The  etch  pit  density,  e,  must  be  lower  than 
a  certain  empirically  determined  maximum. 

(4)  Lifetime  of  Minority  Carriers  ■ —  r,  must  usually  be  above  a  certain 
minimum,  although  in  many  cases  this  minimum  may  be  as  low  as  a 
few  microseconds. 

Assuming  macro  perfection  a  consideration  of  these  requirements 
leads  directly  to  the  two  general  objectives  mentioned  in  the  intro- 
duction of  this  paper:  composition  uniformity  and  control,  and  crystal 
lattice  perfection.  A  third  objective,  high  chemical  purity,  might  also  be 
inferred  from  the  lifetime  requirement,  but  the  results  obtained  by  zone 
refining  raw  material  and  by  fairly  standard  laboratory  techniques  of 
cleaning  and  baking  of  furnace  parts  at  high  temperature  have  been 
.-satisfactory.  Hence  this  objective  has  required  little  development  effort. 
We  proceed  to  a  discussion  of  critical  aspects  of  zone  leveling  in  the  light 
of  the  two  major  development  objectives. 


COMPOSITION   UNIFORMITY   AND    CONTROL 


The  experimental  development  work  described  in  this  paper  has  been 
•oncerned  with  the  distribution  of  two  trace  impurities,  indium  and  anti- 


G44  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

mony,  in  a  pure  element,  germanium.  The  traces  are  generally  desired 
in  concentrations  varying  from  1  to  100  parts  per  billion,  (p  =  35  to 
0.35  cocm).  These  amounts  are  too  small  to  be  detected  by  chemical  or 
spectrographic  means,  but  are  readily  detectable  by  electrical  resistiv- 
ity measurements.  Although  this  application  of  zone  leveling  is  very 
specific,  it  should  be  possible,  as  we  have  already  suggested,  to  apply  the 
experimental  results  to  be  described  to  more  general  systems.  The  sub- 
ject of  uniformity  is  conveniently  discussed  in  two  sections:  (a)  longi- 
tudinal resistivity  uniformity,  and  (b)  cross-sectional  uniformity. 

(a)  Longitudinal  Composition  Uniformity 

It  has  already  been  shown,  by  (2),  that  if  the  k  is  small,  the  variation 
in  Cs  over  four  or  five  zone  lengths  should  be  slight.  This  should  be  true 
either  if  a  charge  of  pure  germanium  is  used,  or  if  a  charge  containing 
the  same  impurity  present  in  the  liquid  zone  is  used,  provided  that  the 
charge  concentration  of  this  impurity  is  of  the  same  order  of  magnitude 
as  that  sought  in  the  product.  Where  the  solute  has  a  small  k,  the  leveling 
action  of  the  zone  is  strong  and  the  large  C'l,  that  is  required  is  relatively 
unaffected  by  variations  of  the  order  of  Cs  ■ 

The  primary  cause  of  observed  variations  in  the  longitudinal  resistiv- 
ity is  fluctuation  of  the  volume  of  the  liquid  zone.  If  this  volume  increases 
for  any  reason,  the  solute  dissolved  in  it  will  be  diluted.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  the  volume  decreases,  which  can  occur  only  when  some  of  the 
liquid  freezes  and  if  k  is  small,  most  of  the  zone's  solute  will  be  concen- 
trated in  the  smaller  volume.  Thus  for  small  A;'s  the  concentration  of 
solute  in  the  liquid  zone,  Cl  ,  varies  inversely  with  the  zone's  volume. 
If  Cl  is  to  be  constant,  the  volume  must  be  constant,  i.e.  assumption  (1) 
must  be  valid. 

Unfortunately,  the  zone  volume  is  directly  affected  by  many  variables, 
namely  temperature  fluctuation  and  drift,  fluctuation  in  growth  rate, 
variation  in  the  cross-section  of  the  unmelted  charge,  variation  in  the 
inert  gas  flow,  and  even  cracks  in  the  unmelted  charge.  For  optimum 
control  of  longitudinal  resistivity  uniformity,  it  is,  therefore,  necessary  to 
control  all  of  these  variables.  The  remainder  of  this  section  will  consider 
their  control. 

Toward  minimizing  the  effect  of  temperature  variation  on  the  zone 
volume,  it  is  important  to  consider  both  the  means  of  overall  temperature 
control  and  the  design  of  the  temperature  field  which  melts  the  liquid 
zone.  It  is  clear  that  variation  of  the  temperature  field  as  a  whole  will 
directly  affect  the  length  of  the  liquid  zone.  Accordingly,  it  will  be  im- 
portant to  use  a  precision  temperature  controller  in  order  to  maintain  a 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING  645 

constant  zone  length.  The  controller  used  here  is  a  servo  system  that 
cycles  the  power  on  and  off  about  ten  times  a  second,  adjusting  the  on 
fraction  of  the  cycle  according  to  the  demands  of  a  control  thermo- 
couple. The  sensitivity  of  the  controller  is  ±0.2°C  at  940°C.  With  a 
liquid  zone  about  4  centimeters  long  and  a  temperature  gradient  of 
about  10°C  per  centimeter  at  the  solidification  interface,  this  degree  of 
control  should  introduce  longitudinal  resistivity  variations  no  greater 
than  ±0.3  per  cent. 

When  other  requirements  permit,  it  is  possible  to  design  a  temperature 
contour  to  minimize  the  effects  of  control  fluctuations.  When  the  tem- 
perature gradients  at  the  ends  of  the  liquid  zone  are  small,  a  slight  change 
in  the  general  temperature  of  the  system  will  cause  a  relatively  large 
change  in  the  position  of  the  solid-liquid  interface.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  gradient  is  steep,  the  shift  in  position  of  the  interface  will  be 
small.  It  is  with  this  consideration  in  mind  that  a  temperature  gradient 
of  about  130°C/cm  is  provided  at  the  melting  end  of  the  liquid  zone 
(Fig.  4).  A  steep  gradient  has  the  added  advantage  that  it  provides  a 
large  heat  flux  which  is  capable  of  supplying  or  removing  the  heat  of 
solidification  even  at  relatively  fast  leveling  rates.  Thus,  a  steep  temper- 
ature gradient  serves  effectively  to  localize  a  solid-liquid  interface.  Other 
considerations,  soon  to  be  discussed,  dictate  that  a  small  temperature 
ti;radient  (about  10°C/cm)  must  be  used  at  the  freezing  end  of  the  zone. 
Accordingly,  high  precision  of  temperature  control  is  required  to  properly 
stabilize  the  position  of  this  solid-liquid  interface. 

Variation  in  the  cross-section  of  the  liquid  zone  may  be  controlled  by 
using  a  boat  with  uniform  cross-section,  and  by  using  as  charge  material 
which  has  been  cast  into  a  mold  of  controlled  cross-section.  Less  precise 
control  is  obtained  by  using  ingots  from  the  zone  refining  process  which 
were  produced  in  a  boat  matched  to  the  zone  leveler  boat.  Even  when 
care  is  used  to  maintain  a  uniform  height  of  the  zone  refined  ingot,  the 
control  is  less  precise  than  in  a  casting. 

A  constant  and  uniform  growth  rate  is  important  toward  obtaining 
uniform  longitudinal  resistivity  because  segregation  coefficients  vary 
with  growth  rate.^"  This  is  especially  true  in  the  case  of  the/c  forantimony. 
Under  steady  state  conditions,  the  growth  rate  is  the  rate  at  which  the 
boat  is  pulled  through  the  heater.  A  stiff  pulling  mechanism  is  required 
in  order  that  the  slow  motion  be  steady.  In  the  apparatus  described  here, 
a  syncronous  motor,  operating  through  a  gear  reduction  to  drive  a  lead 
■  screw,  has  served  to  pull  the  boat  smoothly  over  polished  quartz  rods. 

"Pfann,  W.  G.,  J.  Metals,  5,  p.  1441,  1953. 

"  Burton,  J.  A.,  Kolb,  E.  D.,  Slichter,  W.  P.,  Struthers,  J.  D.,  J.  Chem.  Phys., 
21,  p.  1991,  Nov.,  1953. 


646 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


a; 


a 


> 
o 


o 

> 
o 


bC 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY    ZONE   LEVELING  647 

The  true  growth  rate  may  be  affected  by  factors  that  cause  variations 
from  steady  state  growth  such  as  temperature  and  gas  flow  fluctuations. 
The  need  to  control  these  variables  has  already  been  mentioned  because 
of  their  effect  on  zone  volume;  their  effect  on  growth  rate  is  thus  a  second 
reason  for  their  control. 

Cracks  or  similar  discontinuities  in  the  unmelted  charge  act  as  barriers 
to  heat  flow.  Thus  they  cause  a  local  rise  in  temperature  and  lengthening 
of  the  liquid  zone  as  the  crack  approaches  the  zone,  until  it  is  closed  by 
melting.  The  resulting  transient  increase  in  liquid  volume  (and  in  p  of 
the  product)  may  be  of  the  order  of  10  per  cent. 

(b)  Cross-Sectional  Com'position  Uniformity 

Difficulty  may  be  expected  in  controlling  the  cross-sectional  uniform- 
ity of  the  zone  leveled  ingot  chiefly  when  the  third  assumption  is  invalid, 
i.e.,  when  Cl  throughout  the  liquid  is  non-uniform.  As  shown  in  the  next 
paragraph,  the  true  Cl  must  always  rise  locally  near  the  solidifying  inter- 
face due  to  the  solute  diffusion  which  is  necessary  when  k  <  \.  However, 
it  is  possible  to  improve  the  validity  of  assumption  3  both  by  slowing 
Ihe  groAvth  rate  and  by  stirring  the  liquid  zone. 

One  can  form  an  estimate  of  a  theoretically  reasonable  growth  rate 
in  terms  of  the  rate  of  diffusion  of  impurities  in  liquid  germanium.  It 
should  be  noted  that  movement  of  a  liquid  zone  containing  a  solute 
whose  segregation  coefficient  is  small  implies  a  general  movement  by 
diffusion  of  essentially  all  the  solute  atoms  away  from  the  solidifying 
interface  at  a  speed  ecjual  to  the  rate  of  motion  of  the  zone.  Even  slow 
zone  motion  corresponds  to  a  high  diffusion  flux  of  the  solute  through 
the  Uquid.  As  a  consequence,  the  solute  concentration  must  rise  in  front 
of  the  advancing  solidification  interface  to  a  concentration  Cl'  (see  Fig.  5) 
until  a  concentration  gradient  is  reached  sufficient  to  provide  a  diffusion 
flux  equal  to  the  growth  rate.  Fick's  Law  of  diffusion  is  useful  here  to 
calculate  the  extent  of  the  rise  in  C/,/  at  the  growth  interface,  assuming 
the  liquid  to  be  at  rest.  The  ratio  of  the  maximum  concentration  to  the 
bulk  concentration  may  be  taken  from  Fig.  5.  If  the  maximum  is  to 
l)c  no  greater  than  10  per  cent  above  the  mean,  a  maximum  growth 
rate  of  2  X  10~^  mils  per  second  or  7  X  10"^  inches/hour  would  be 
r(3(juired.  Clearly,  this  rate  is  far  too  slow  to  provide  an  economical 
means  of  growing  single  crystals.  For  a  practical  process,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  use  non-equilibrium  conditions  at  growth  rates  that  must  result 
HI  appreciable  concentration  differences  within  the  liquid  zone.  Of  course, 
the  slower  the  growth  rate  the  smaller  will  be  the  diffusion  gradient  and 
the  higher  will  be  the  expected  cross-sectional  uniformity. 


648 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


SOLID 

Cs=k(x)CL=kCo)CL 

fV  n                                            LIQUID 

^*''*>*..,,_^^^^^                       Cl  (AVERAGE)-^ 

tQUILIBRIUM 

DISTRIBUTION   COEFFICIENT 

~  Cu  (AVERAGE) 

*•     MOTION    OF   INTERFACE 

1 

FOR   GROWTH   RATE  =  X 
Cs=  k(0)CL(AVERAGE) 

..EQUILIBRIUM 

DISTANCE,  X 


k(x)  = 


Cs 


(7L(ave) 


(3) 


In  practice,  however,  the  situation  is  complicated  by  the  existence  of 
convection  currents  in  the  liquid  zone.  It  is  true  that  these  currents  tend 
to  stir  the  liciuid  zone  and  thereby  to  minimize  the  concentration  gradient 
within  it.  However,  the  currents  are  not  uniform  over  the  growing  inter- 
face and  they  carry  liquid  of  varying  concentrations  past  the  interface, 
causing  fluctuations  in  Cs  •  Since  these  convection  currents  cannot  be 
eliminated,  one  turns  to  the  alternative  of  using  forced  stirring  of  the 
liquid  zone.  Such  a  forced  stirring  is  readily  available  when  RF  induc- 
tion heating  is  used  by  allowing  the  RF  field  to  couple  directly  with  the 


Fig.  5  —  Solute  concentration  in  solid  and  liquid  at  equilibrium  and  at  finite 
growth  rates. 

If  the  liquid  were  static,  that  is,  without  any  currents,  it  should  be  I; 
possible  to  obtain  a  uniform,  controlled  solute  concentration  in  the  solid 
even  at  appreciable  growth  rates,  merely  by  adjusting  the  average  con- 
centration in  the  liquid  to  arrange  that  the  Cl  obtained  at  the  growing 
interface  will  be  the  desired  one.  Instead  of  working  with  the  equilibrium 
distribution  coefficient  ko ,  one  works  with  an  effective  distribution  co- 
efficient k(x)  for  the  given  growth  rate,  x: 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE    LEVELING 


649 


liquid  zone."  The  resulting  stirring  currents  are  shown  schematically 
in  Fig.  6.  It  is  seen  that  the  liquid  is  mo\'ed  from  the  center  of  the  zone 
along  its  axis  toward  both  ends.  There  it  passes  radially  outward  across 
the  interface  and  returns  along  the  outside  of  the  zone  to  its  center. 
These  stirring  currents  are  faster  than  convection  currents  and  tend  to 
minimize  the  rise  of  Cl  at  the  solidification  interface  and  to  improve  the 
uniformity  of  Cl  and  of  crystal  growth  conditions  in  general  over  the 
freezing  interface. 

CRYSTAL   LATTICE   PERFECTION 

A  single  edge  dislocation  in  germanium  may  be  regarded  as  a  line  of 
free  valence  bonds.  The  dislocation  line  is  believed  to  have  about  -i  X  lO" 
potential  acceptor  centers  per  centimeter,  producing  a  space  charge  in 
the  neighboring  germanium  and  strongly  modifying  its  semiconductor 
properties.  A  lineage  boundary  (a  term  found  useful  to  designate  a  low 
angle  grain  boundary)  is  a  set  of  regularly  spaced  dislocations,  and  may 

I  be  regarded  as  a  surface  of  p-type  material.  Since  the  basic  electrical 
properties  of  a  semiconductor,  resistivity  (and  also  minority  carrier  life- 
time) are  drastically  out  of  control  at  dislocations  and  arrays  of  disloca- 

I  tions,  it  is  easy  to  understand  why  these  lattice  imperfections  are  un- 

'  desirable  in  crystals  to  be  used  for  most  semiconductor  purposes. 

The  attainment  of  high  perfection  in  germanium  lattices  may  conven- 
iently be  discussed  in  two  parts:  first,  the  growth  of  a  single  crystal  of 

i  high  perfection  and,  second,  the  preservation  of  the  crystal's  perfection 
(luring  its  cooling  to  room  temperature. 

;  The  problem  of  growing  a  single  crystal  in  the  zone  leveler  is  basically 
one  of  arranging  conditions  so  that  the  liquid  germanium  solidifies  only 


Fig.  6  —  Stirring  currents  in  liquid  induced  by  RF  induction  heater. 


"  Brockmeir,  K.,  Aluminium,  28,  p.  391,  1952. 
12  Read,  W.  T.,  Phil.  Mag.  45,  p.  775,  1954. 


650 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


i  1 

z 
o 

SLOW   GROWTH 

UJ< 

11 

Cj. 

Oiu 

(/)U 

z 
o 
o 

T  GRADIENT 
NO.  2 
REGION   OF                                 \          ^ 

< CONSTITUTIONAL >                  \^ 

SUPER    COOLING                   ^^^"^ 

LIQUIDUS 

DISTANCE,  X 


DISTANCE,  X 


Fig.  7  —  Schematic  solute  concentration  and  temperature  curves  in  liquid,    . 
near  freezing  interface,  illustrating  constitutional  supercooling.  The  left  edge 
of  each  diagram  represents  the  solid-liquid  interface. 


on  the  single  crystal  germanium  seed.  In  order  to  achieve  this  situation, 
it  is  essential  that  no  stable  nuclei  form.  Thus,  not  only  must  the  tem- 
perature of  the  liquid  zone  be  above  its  freezing  point  everywhere  except 
at  the  interface,  but  the  liquid  must  also  be  free  of  foreign  bodies  that  can 
ct  as  nuclei.  Furthermore,  temperature  fluctuations  are  to  be  avoided. 

The  requirement  that  the  liquid  temperature  be  above  its  freezing 
point  necessitates  a  slow  growth  rate  because  of  what  has  been  termed 
"constitutional  supercooling."^^  This  phenomenon  can  best  be  described 
with  the  aid  of  Fig.  7.  The  freezing  point  of  a  liquid  is  depressed  by  in- 
creasing concentration  of  solutes  having  /c's  less  than  unity.  Because 
of  the  rise  in  Cl  near  the  solidifying  interface,  the  freezing  point  is  more 
depressed  in  this  region  than  that  in  the  bulk  of  the  liquid  zone  as  shown 
in  Fig.  7. 

It  has  also  been  shown^^  for  crystals  growing  in  one  dimension  that  the 
temperature  gradient  in  the  liquid  decreases  for  increasing  growth  rates. 
The  temperature  gradients  for  two  growth  rates  are  plotted  on  Fig.  7. 
It  can  be  seen  that  where  the  growth  rate  is  slow  and  the  temperatin-e 


"  Chalmers,  B.,  J.  Metals,  6,  No.  5,  Section  1,  May,  1954. 
"  Burton,  J.  A.,  and  Slichter,  W.  P.,  private  communication. 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING  651 

gradient  is  steep,  the  temperature  of  the  liquid  is  above  its  liquidus 
(freezing  point  curve)  throughout  the  Hqiiid,  and  no  stable  nuclei  can 
form.  However,  increasing  the  growth  rate  decreases  the  temperature 
gradient,  while  it  depresses  the  liquidus.  If  the  temperature  gradient 
is  reduced  to  that  indicated  for  fast  grow^th,  a  region  of  constitutional 
supercooling  will  exist  in  front  of  the  solidifying  interface  where  nuclei 
can  form  and  grow.  The  freezing  of  such  a  crystallite  onto  the  growing 
crystal  marks  the  end  of  single  crystal  growth. 

A  foreign  body  may  also  initiate  polycrystalline  growth.  A  natural  site 
for  nucleation  by  foreign  bodies  is  the  wall  of  the  boat,  close  to  the  growth 
interface.  Here  the  liquid  germanium  is  in  contact  with  foreign  matter 
at  temperatures  approaching  its  freezing  point.  It  was  found  by  D.  Dorsi 
that  germanium  single  crystals  could  be  grown  satisfactorily  in  a  smoked 
quartz  boat,  at  growth  rates  up  to  2  mils  per  second.  However,  uniform- 
ity considerations  mentioned  previously  make  it  desirable  to  zone  level 
at  much  slower  rates. 

It  is  believed  that  scattered  dislocations  may  be  produced  in  a  single 
crystal  germanium  lattice  by  three  chief  mechanisms.  They  may  be  prop- 
agated from  a  seed  into  the  new  lattice  as  it  grows;  they  may  result 
from  various  possible  growth  faults;  but  probably  the  most  important 
mechanism  in  this  work  is  plastic  deformation  of  the  solid  crystal.  The 
lirst  cause  may  be  minimized  by  selecting  the  most  nearly  perfect  seeds 
available,  the  second  by  using  slow  growth  rates,  and  the  third  by  mini- 
mizing stresses  in  the  crystal. 

The  first  hint  that  plastic  deformation  in  the  crystal  might  be  an  im- 
portant source  of  dislocations  came  from  the  study  of  crystals  pulled 
from  the  melt  by  the  Teal-Little  technique.  Frequently  when  sections  of 
crystals  grown  in  the  [111]  direction  were  etched  in  CPi  the  pits  were 
arrayed  in  a  star  pattern,  Fig.  8(a),  in  which  the  pits  appeared  on  lines  — 
not  randomly  distributed.  This  coherent  pattern  suggested  strongly  that 
the  lines  were  caused  by  dislocations  in  slip  planes  which  had  been  ac- 
tive in  plastic  deformation  of  the  crystal.  The  slip  system  of  germanium 
has  been  determined  to  be  the  <110>  directions  on  {111}  planes.^^ 
If  the  periphery  of  the  crystal  is  assumed  to  be  in  tension,  it  is  possible 
to  calculate  the  relative  shear  stress  pattern  in  each  slip  system  of  the  3 
{111  {  planes  which  intersect  the  (111)  section  plane.  The  results  of  these 
calculations  are  summarized  in  Fig.  8(b)  which  shows  a  polar  plot  of 
the  largest  resolved  shear  stresses  for  these  planes  and  also  their  traces 
in  the  section  plane.  The  agreement  with  the  observed  star  pattern  is 
striking. 


15  Treuting,  R.  G.  Journal  of  Metals,  7,  p.  1027,  Sept.,  1955. 


652 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


Fig. 8 (a)- 
from  melt). 


Star  Pattern  on  (111)  plane  (etched  cross-section  of  crystal  pulled 


The  peripheral  tension  assumed  in  the  above  paragraph  may  be  seen 
to  be  quahtatively  reasonable  upon  consideration  of  the  heat  flow  pat- 
tern of  the  crystal  during  growth.  Heat  must  enter  the  crystal  by 
conduction  through  its  hottest  surface,  the  gro^\^ng  interface,  which 
is  a  940°C  isotherm.  It  must  leave  through  all  the  other  surfaces  by 
radiation  and  conduction.  Therefore,  these  surfaces  must  be  cooler 
than  their  adjacent  interiors,  and  cross-sections  of  the  crystal  must 
have  cooler  peripheries  than  cores  because  of  the  heat  escaping  from 
the  peripheral  surfaces.  Due  to  thermal  contraction  the  cooler  periphery 
must  be  in  tension  and  the  core  in  compression. 

In  zone  leveled  crystals  the  distribution  of  etch  pits  on  a  (111)  section 
was  not  dense  or  symmetric  enough  to  display  a  star  pattern.  However, 
it  was  reasoned  that  since  thermal  contraction  stresses  appeared  to  play 
a  major  role  in  the  production  of  dislocations  in  pulled  crystals  through 
plastic  deformation  in  the  available  slip  systems,  the  same  mechanism 
might  be  playing  a  significant  role  in  zone  leveled  crystals. 
.'  "-.The  only  stresses  in  a  zone  leveled  ingot  other  than  those  due  to  the 
weight  of  the  crystal  itself  must  be  those  due  to  non-uniformities  in 


SINGLE    CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING 


653 


thermal  contraction.  Consider  a  small  increment  of  the  length  of  a  newly 
formed  zone  leveled  crystal  as  heat  flows  through  it  from  its  hotter  to  its 
colder  ends  while  the  crystal  moves  slowly  through  the  apparatus.  Heat 
flows  in  by  conduction  from  the  higher  temperature  germanium  adjacent 
to  it.  Heat  leaves  not  only  by  conduction  out  the  other  end,  but  also  by 
conduction  and  radiation  from  the  ingot  surface.  Because  of  this  latter 
heat  loss,  there  is  a  radial  component  as  well  as  a  longitudinal  component 
to  the  temperature  gradient.  The  cooler  surface  contracts  resulting,  as 
above,  in  peripheral  tension  and  internal  compression.  Clearly  if  the 
radial  component  of  heat  flow  could  be  eliminated,  there  would  be  no 
peripheral  contraction.  Accordingly,  the  most  desirable  temperature  dis- 
tribution is  one  whose  radial  heat  flow  is  zero,  i.e.,  a  case  of  purely  axial 
or  one  dimensional  heat  flow,  which  implies  a  uniform  temperature 
gradient  along  the  axis  of  the  ingot.  In  practice,  it  is  difficult  to  obtain 
a  uniform  axial  temperature  gradient  except  for  the  special  case  of  a 
very  small  one.  This  may  be  obtained  fairly  easily  by  the  use  of  an  ap- 


/  /  /  ffr 
/  /  /  ^— 


TRACE   OF  (ill) 


-TRACE    OF    (Tll) 


r     / 

/     / 
7    /    / 


'  ^^^N 


— 7         '         /         /         /  * 

///'//         \        ,    _, 

N  /  /  /  /trace  of  (iii) 
'',  /    /    / 

[oTi] 


resolved  s 

STRESS   (u 

stress  (Tm)- 

STRESS   (lTl)  -  -" 


IT)-     /  /   \\\\//// 

"  ^'    \\v/// 

\\v/ 

\v/ 


Fig.  8(b)  —  Resolved  shear  stress  and  slip-plane  traces  on  (111)  Plane. 


u. 


I- 

<: 

H 
C, 


< 


654 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING  655 

propriate  heater.  The  heater  designed  for  this  purpose  is  called  an  after- 
heater  and  is  shown  in  Figs.  4  and  9. 

The  after-heater  reduces  the  heat  loss  by  radiation  and  radial  conduc- 
tion from  the  crystal  maintaining  the  entire  crystal  at  a  temperature 
only  slightly  below  its  melting  point  throughout  its  growth.  After 
zone  leveling  has  been  completed,  the  entire  ingot  is  cooled  slowly  and 
uniformly.  Of  course,  a  finite  temperature  gradient  must  exist  at  the 
liquid-solid  interface.  The  gradient  at  the  interface  of  the  leveler  shown 
in  Figs.  4  and  9  is  about  10°C  per  centimeter  and  the  maximum  gradient, 
about  yi  inch  into  the  solid,  is  30°C  per  centimeter.  The  gradient  de- 
creases slowly  to  nearly  zero  within  the  after-heater,  as  can  be  seen  in 
the  measured  temperature  curve  of  Fig.  4. 

A  ZONE  LEVELING  APPARATUS  AND  TECHNIQUE  FOR  GERMANUIM 

The  apparatus  required  for  zone  leveling  is  basically  simple.  A  single 
crystal  seed,  the  desired  impurities,  and  a  germanium  charge,  are  held 
in  a  suitable  container  in  an  inert  atmosphere.  Provision  is  supplied  for 
either  moving  a  heater  along  the  charge  or  the  charge  container  through 
a  heater.  The  heater  may  be  either  an  electric  resistance  type  or  a  radio 
frequency  induction  type.  The  resistance  heater  offers  the  advantage  of 
economy  while  the  induction  heating  offers  the  advantage  of  direct  in- 
ductive stirring  of  the  melted  zone  by  the  RF  field,  which,  as  mentioned 
previously,  is  helpful  in  attaining  uniformity  of  impurity  distribution, 
and  is  therefore  to  be  preferred  for  critical  work. 

Schematic  drawings  of  an  RF  powered  zone  leveler  following  in  general 
the  original  design  by  K.  M.  Olsen  are  shown  in  Fig.  9  in  two  useful 
configurations.  The  outer  clear  quartz  tube  serves  to  support  the  inner 
members  of  the  apparatus  and  also  to  contain  the  inert  atmosphere  for 
which  nitrogen,  hydrogen,  helium,  or  argon,  can  serve.  For  this  appara- 
tus, a  quartz  boat  is  used  to  contain  the  germanium,  since  it  permits 
inductive  stirring  of  the  liquid  germanium  by  the  RF  field.  The  auxiliary 
fore  and  after  heaters,  which  are  made  of  graphite,  have  special  purposes 
discussed  in  the  two  preceding  sections.  A  typical  boat  used  in  this  ap- 
paratus is  about  16"  long,  is  smoked  on  the  inside,  and  is  made  of  thin- 
walled  clear  quartz  of  V  I.D.  and  of  semi-circular  cross-section.  A  normal 
charge  of  zone  refined  Ge  and  seed  is  about  12  inches  long  and  weighs 
about  500  gm.  A  photograph  of  the  assembled  apparatus  appears  in 
Fig.  10. 

For  the  best  results  in  crystal  perfection  and  resistivity  uniformity, 
the  apparatus  is  run  with  the  full  length  after-heater  and  at  a  slow  pull 


rate,  0.09  mils  per  second  (approximately  1"  in  three  hours).  For  some- 
what less  critical  demands  a  pull  rate  10  times  faster  is  used,  with  a  short- 
ened after-heater  or  none  at  all. 

If  it  is  desired  to  reproduce  a  resistivity  obtained  in  the  zone  leveler, 
it  is  very  convenient  to  reuse  the  solidified  zone  containing  the  impurity 
addition  that  yielded  the  desired  resistivity.  This  solid  zone,  if  undam- 
aged (when  cut  from  the  finished  ingot),  will  contain  all  of  the  sohite 
that  was  not  deposited  during  the  ingot  run.  When  it  is  remelted  next 
to  a  seed  the  solute  will  redissolve  into  the  liquid  to  yield  very  nearly 


SINGLE    CRYSTAL    BY   ZONE   LEVELING  657 


Fig.  11.  —  Photograph  of  zone  leveled  single  crystal  ingot. 

the  same  Cl  ,  provided  that  the  zone  vokime  is  accurately  reproduced. 
In  this  way  it  is  readily  possible  to  resume  leveling  as  before  and  hence 
virtually  to  reproduce  a  desired  resistivity.  For  the  small  k  solutes, 
In  and  Sb  ,  discussed  in  this  paper  the  loss  of  d  in  one  leveling  run  is  so 
small  as  to  be  insignificant  compared  to  other  sources  of  error  in  this 
quantity. 

'  PILOT   PRODUCTION   RESULTS 

The  capabilities  of  the  zone  leveling  equipment  and  techniques  just 
I  described  may  be  evaluated  with  reasonably  good  accuracy  on  the  basis 
1  of  the  measurement  results  obtained  from  more  than  300  single  crystal 
1  ingots  so  produced.  Over  200  of  these  crystals  were  grown  in  the  after- 
heater  at  the  "slow"  growth  rate  of  0.09  mils  per  second.  The  rest  were 
I  grown  with  a  short  after-heater  or  none  at  all  at  a  growth  rate  about  ten 
times  greater. 

The  ingots  to  be  measured  (see  Fig.  11)  were  usually  4-6  inches  long 
after  removing  seeds  and  solidified  zones  (i.e.,  2-3  zone  lengths),  and 
were  cut  into  1  inch  lengths.  The  p,  r,  and  e  measurements  were  taken 
^  on  the  flat  ends  of  these  segments.  The  results  of  the  observations  will 
'  be  summarized  and  discussed  in  terms  of  the  four  device  test  require- 
ments described  earlier. 

(1)  Compositional  Uniformity 

The  resistivity  measurements  were  taken  with  a  calibrated  4-point 
probe  technique  at  five  locations  on  each  ingot  cross-section  (center,  top, 
bottom  and  each  side).  The  spacing  between  adjacent  points  of  the  probe 
was  50  mils.  Accordingly,  these  measurements  would  be  insensitive  to  p 
fluctuations  in  the  material  of  this  order  or  smaller.  However,  an  investi- 
gation by  potential  probing  techniques,  of  Ge  filaments  cut  from  zone 
leveled  ingots    indicates  that  p  fluctuations  in  zone  leveled  material  are 

'6  L.  B.  Valdes,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  42,  p.  420,  1954. 
"  Erhart,  D.  L.,  private  communication. 


G58  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Table  I  —  Average  Resistivity  Variations 
(A)  Along  length  axis.  Grand  Length  Average  ±  10%. 


Growth  Rate 
Mils  per  Second 


0.9 
0.8 
0.09 


n-Type 


±% 


9.9 
7.6 
9.0 


No.  of  Ingots 


27 

12 

108 


p-Type 


±% 


10.9 

17.4 

9.3 


No.  of  Ingots 


33 

16 

137 


Average 

±  /o 


10.4 

13.2 

9.2 


(B)  Over  Cross-Section 

Growth  Rate 

n-Type 

p-Type 

Average 

Mils  per  Second 

±% 

No.  of  Ingots 

±% 

No.  of  Ingots 

±% 

0.9 
0.8 
0.09 

9.5 
8.3 
4.3 

22 
12 
93 

8.5 
6.9 
2.3 

30 

14 

122 

8.9 
7.5 
3.2 

generally  coarse  — •  changing  over  distances  2  to  5  times  larger  in  dimen- 
sion than  the  50  mil  dimension  in  question.  Thus  the  p  data  summarized 
here  should  give  a  reasonably  valid  representation  of  the  true  p  variations 
in  the  ingots  measured. 

Table  I  summarizes  the  resistivity  variations  recorded  as  percentages 
of  the  mean  resistivity  of  each  ingot.  These  variations  are  separated  into 
those  observed  (a)  along  the  length  axis  and  (b)  over  the  cross-section, 
for  the  different  growth  conditions  and  resistivity  types. 

It  is  readily  seen  that  the  average  variation  along  the  length,  about 
±10  per  cent,  is  larger  than  the  average  cross-sectional  variation.  The 
variations  are  not  systematic  along  the  length  of  the  ingot  and  are 
chiefly  due  to  fluctuation  in  the  length  of  the  liquid  zone.  An  appreciable 
part  of  this  variation  is  due  to  the  effect,  mentioned  earlier,  of  discon- 
tinuities in  the  unmelted  charges  between  1  inch  lengths  of  crystals 
that  were  being  releveled.  A  smaller  length  variation  of  p,  about  ±7 
per  cent,  was  observed  in  those  ingots  grown  from  continuous  charges. 

Part  B  of  the  table  shows  that  the  variation  of  p  over  the  cross-section 
is  sensitive  to  the  growth  rate  in  the  range  covered.  For  slow  growth,  it 
is  small,  and  one  would  reasonably  expect  that  if  further  improvement 
in  p  variation  were  required,  it  should  first  be  sought  by  improving  the 
control  of  the  zone  length. 

(2)  Macro  Perfection 

Macro  perfection  of  the  pilot  production  product  is  extremely  high. 
There  were  essentially  no  cases  of  polycrystallinity,  or  twinning,  except 


SINGLE   CRYSTAL   BY   ZONE   LEVELING 


659 


300 
200 

100 
600 
400 

200 

100 
5  80 
Z  60 
tu  40 
I-  400 

LU 
LL 

_l 

200 

< 

liJ    100 
<     80 

60 
40 

20 

10 


FAST   p 

(a) NO    AFTER-HEATER 

FAST  n 

1 







SLOW  n  +  p 





in 

Q 

z 
o 
o 

LU 
10 

o 

cc 
u 


(b)    5"  AFTER -HEATER 

^ — ^ 

^^ 

.-'-"'' 

^— — "^ 

':^ 

^" 

"slow  p 

"  ^^  t 

/ 

.^--^ 

^^Low  n 

(C)  12" 

AFTER-h 

HEATER 

^^  — —  "^ 

-•''' 

^t 

,-"" 

^^^00""''''''''^ 

^ 

x' 

^.^ 

SLOW  Pj 

-'         > 

^^ 

y'^ 

^/^Low  n 

y 

■v 

''V 

/ 

2  3  4  5 

DISTANCE    FROM    SEED    IN    INCHES 


Fig.  12  —  Average  minority  carrier  lifetime  plotted  against  distance  from  seed 
for  2-8  ohm  cm  crystals  grown  with  12",  5"  and  no  after-heaters. 


for  clearly  attributable  causes  such  as  power  or  equipment  failure.  There 
were  few  cases  of  lineage  in  the  short  after-heater  and  virtually  none  in 
the  full  after-heater,  while  lineage  is  not  uncommon  in  ingots  grown  with 
no  after-heater. 

(3)  Micro  Perfectio7i 

Table  II  summarizes  the  etch  pit  density,  e,  measurement  results.  In 
general,  it  can  be  seen  that  with  the  after-heater  one  can  expect  etch 
pit  counts  of  the  order  of  1,500  pits  per  cm-  which  is  lower  than  results 
without  an  after-heater  by  about  an  order  of  magnitude  (and  lower  than 

Table  II  —  Average  Etch  Pit  Densities,  e 


Growth  Rate 
Mils  per  Second 

«  Ave 

a 

No.  of  Ingots 

(12"  after-heater) 
(5"  after-heater) 

No  after-heater 

0.09 
0.09 
0.9 
0.9 

1560 

3800 

7000 

11000 

770 
1600 
1900 
6600 

39 
3 
3 
6 

G60  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

e's  of  pulled  Ge  crystals  by  about  two  orders  of  magnitude) .  The  lowest 
average  count  that  has  been  observed  is  40  pits  per  cm^  This  crystal 
was  found  to  have  the  smallest  X-Ray  rocking-curve  widths  observed  in 
germanium  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  —  very  nearly  the  the- 
oretically ideal  mdths.  The  perfection  indicated  is  exceptional  —  com- 
parable to  that  of  selected  quartz  crystals. 

(4)  Lifetime  of  Minority  Carriers 

T  data  are  summarized  in  Fig.  12  in  which  are  plotted  averages  of  the 
r  measurements  on  the  ingot  sections  against  distance  from  the  seed. 
One  sees  a  systematic  rise  in  t  along  the  length  axis  of  an  ingot  grown 
slowly  in  the  after-heater.  This  is  interpreted  to  indicate  that  the  ingot  is 
being  slowly  contaminated  with  chemical  recombination  centers  during 
its  long  wait  inside  the  after-heater  at  high  temperatures.  If  improvement 
were  needed  in  lifetime,  it  should  be  sought  first  by  increasing  the  chemi- 
cal cleanliness  precautions,  which  were  nonetheless  strict  in  this  work. 

SUMMARY 

A  zone  leveler  has  been  developed  to  provide  growth  conditions  suit- 
able for  the  production  of  quality  germanium  single  crystals.  The  crys- 
tals are  nearly  uniform  and  have  exceptionally  high  lattice  perfection,  jri 
Similar  levelers  are  in  use  in  production.  '' 

The  apparatus  developed  has  been  used  to  supply  germanium  single 
crystals  for  experiments  and  for  the  pilot  production  of  a  variety  of  point 
contact,  alloy,  and  diffusion  transistors.  The  machine  operating  at  slow 
growth  rate  with  an  after-heater  can  produce  one  6-inch  250-gm  crystal 
per  day.  For  less  critical  demands,  it  can  produce  several  longer  crystals 
per  day. 

Evaluation  of  the  product  indicates  that  resistivity  variation  on  a 
cross-section  of  the  ingot  can  be  ±3  per  cent  and  that  along  the  length 
axis  it  can  be  controlled  to  ±7  per  cent  if  a  continuous  charge  is  used. 
Furthermore,  the  crystals  contain  no  grain  boundaries  or  lineage  and 
the  scattered  etch  pit  densities  average  about  1,500  per  cm-.  Thus,  the 
zone  leveling  process  has  proved  to  be  simple,  efficient,  and  capable  of 
more  than  meeting  the  present  specifications  for  quality  germanium 
single  crystals. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


i 


The  authors  arc  indebted  for  the  help  and  cooperation  of  many  people, 
especially  that  of  L.  P.  Adda  and  D.  L.  Erhart  who  guided  the  evaluation 
of  zone  leveled  material  summarized  above,  and  that  of  F.  W.  Bergwall 
through  whose  patient  effort  and  suggestions  the  machine  worked. 


Diffused  p-n  Junction  Silicon  Rectifiers 

By  M.  B.  PRINCE 

(Manuscript  received  December  12,  1955) 

Diffused  p-n  junction  silicon  rectifiers  incoryorating  the  feature  of  con- 
ductivity modulation  are  being  developed.  These  rectifiers  are  made  by  the 
liiffusion  of  impurities  into  thin  wafers  of  high-resistivity  silicon.  Three 
\  development  models  with  attractive  electrical  characteristics  are  described 
irhich  have  current  ratings  from  0  to  100  amperes  with  inverse  peak  voltages 
qreater  than  200  volts.  These  devices  are  attractive  from  an  engineering  stand- 
point since  their  behavior  is  predictable,  one  process  permits  the  fabrication 
of  an  entire  class  of  rectifiers,  and  large  enough  elements  can  be  processed 
so  that  power  dissipation  is  limited  only  by  the  packaging  and  mounting 
■of  the  unit. 

l.n    INTRODUCTION 

1.1  The  earliest  solid  state  power  rectifier,  the  copper  oxide  rectifier, 
was  introduced  in  the  1920's.  It  found  some  applications  where  effi- 
ciency, space,  and  weight  requirements  were  not  important.  In  1940 
the  selenium  rectifier  was  introduced  commercially  and  overcame  to  a 
great  extent  the  limitations  of  the  copper  oxide  rectifier.  As  a  result, 
the  selenium  rectifier  has  found  wide  usage.  In  early  1952  a  large  area 
licrmanium^  junction  diode  was  announced  which  showed  further  im- 
'  provements  in  efficiency,  size,  and  weight.  In  addition  it  shows  promise 
of  greater  reliability  and  life  as  compared  to  the  earlier  devices.  How- 
ever, all  of  these  devices  have  one  drawback  in  that  they  cannot  operate 
111  ambient  temperatures  greater  than  about  100°C. 

Also  in  1952,  the  silicon  alloy^  junction  diode  was  announced  and  was 
shown  to  be  capable  of  operating  at  temperatures  over  200°C.  However 
it  was  a  small  area  device  and  could  not  handle  the  large  power  that  the 
other  devices  could  rectify.  During  the  past  three  years  development 
has  been  carried  on  by  several  laboratories  in  improving  the  size  and 
power  capabilities  of  these  alloy  diodes.  In  early  1954  the  gaseous  diffu- 

'  Hall,  R.  N.,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  p.  1512,  1952. 

2  Pearson,  G.  L.,  and  Sawyer,  B.,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  p.  1348,  1952. 

661 


662 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


(a) 

FORWARD 

REVERSE 

a: 

a: 

D 
U 


(b) 

/rs 

y^^ 

Vb 


v„ 


VOLTAGE 


Fig.  1  —  (a).  Ideal  rectifier,  (b).  Semiconductor  rectifier. 


sion  technique^  for  producing  large  area  junctions  in  silicon  was  an- 
nounced. This  technique  lends  itself  very  readily  to  controlling  the 
position  of  junctions  in  silicon.  An  early  rectifier^  made  by  this  tech-- 
nique  was  one  half  cm^  in  area  and  conducted  8  amperes  at  one  volt  in  i 
the  forward  direction  and  about  2  milliamperes  at  80  volts  in  the  re-- 
verse  direction.  The  series  resistance  of  this  device  was  approximately' 
0.07  ohms. 

1.2  In  order  to  understand  quantitatively  the  problems  associated! 
with  power  rectifier  development,  consider  Fig.  1(a)  which  shows  what  I 
an  engineer  would  like  in  the  way  of  an  ideal  rectifier.  It  will  pass  a 
large  amount  of  current  in  the  forward  direction  without  any  voltage. 

3  Pearson,  G.  L.,  and  Fuller,  C.  S.,  Proc.  I.Il.E.,  42,  No.  4.,  1954.  I 


DIFFUSED    p->     JUNCTION    SILICON   RECTIFIERS  663 

drop  aiul  will  pass  no  current  for  any  applied  voltage  in  the  reverse 
direction.  At  present  no  device  with  this  characteristic  exists.  A  typical 
semiconductor  rectifier  has  a  characteristic  of  the  type  shown  in  Fig. 
1(b).  In  these  devices  there  is  a  forward  voltage,  Vo ,  that  must  be  de- 
veloped before  appreciable  current  will  flow  and  a  series  resistance, 
Rs,  thru  which  the  current  will  flow.  In  the  reverse  biased  direction 
there  is  a  current  that  will  flow  due  to  body  and  surface  leakage  and 
that  usually  increases  with  reverse  voltage.  At  some  given  reverse  volt- 
age, Vb,  the  device  will  break  down  and  conduct  appreciable  currents. 
To  have  an  efficient  rectifier,  Vo  and  Rs  should  be  as  small  as  possible 
and  Vb  should  be  as  large  as  can  be  made;  also,  the  reverse  leakage  cur- 
rents should  be  kept  to  a  minimum.  According  to  semiconductor  theory. 
To  depends  mainly  upon  the  energy  gap  of  the  semiconductor,  in- 
creasing with  increasing  energy  gap.  Rs  consists  of  two  parts;  body  re- 
sistance of  the  semiconductor  and  resistance  due  to  the  contacts  to  the 
semiconductor.  The  higher  the  resistivity  of  the  semiconductor,  the 
higher  is  the  body  resistance  part  of  Rs  ■  The  leakage  currents  in  the 
reverse  direction  depend  to  some  extent  on  the  energy  gap  of  the  semi- 
conductor, being  smaller  with  larger  energy  gap;  and  Vb  depends  most 
strongly  on  the  resistivity  of  the  semiconductor,  being  larger  for  higher 
resistivity  material.  Another  factor  that  is  important  in  the  choice  of 
the  semiconductor  is  the  ability  of  devices  fabricated  from  the  semi- 
conductor to  operate  at  high  temperatures;  high  temperature  operation 
of  devices  improves  with  larger  energy  gap  semiconductors.  Thus  there 
are  two  compromises  to  be  made  in  choosing  the  material  (energy  gap) 
and  resistivity  of  the  semiconductor. 

1.3  This  paper  reports  on  a  special  class  of  rectifiers  in  which  im- 
proved performance  has  been  obtained.  These  devices  are  made  by 
using  the  diffusion  technique  with  silicon.  The  diffusion  process  permits 
both  accurate  geometric  control  and  low  resistance  ohmic  contacts, 
which  in  turn  makes  it  possible  to  reduce  Rs  to  very  small  values  inde- 
pendent of  the  resistivity  of  the  initial  silicon.  Therefore,  high  resis- 
tivity material  can  be  used  to  obtain  high  Vb  ■  An  explanation  of  this 
result  is  given  in  Section  3.  Silicon  permits  small  reverse  currents  and 
high  temperature  operation.  Its  only  drawback  is  that  Fo  ^^  0.6  volts. 
Rectifiers  made  of  silicon  with  the  diffusion  technique  are  able  to  pass 
j  hundreds  of  amperes  per  square  centimeter  continuously  in  the  forward 
(  direction  in  areas  up  to  0.4  square  centimeter.  One  type  of  device  whose 
i  area  is  0.06  cm-  readily  conducts  ten  amperes  with  less  than  one  volt 
forward  drop.  The  forward  current  voltage  characteristic  of  this  family 
of  rectifiers  follows  an  almost  exponential  characteristic  indicating  that 


664  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956  | 

Rs  is  extremely  small  (<0.05  ohms).  Although  the  measured  reverse 
currents  are  greater  than  those  predicted  by  theory  for  temperatures 
up  to  100°C,  the  reverse  losses  are  low  and  do  not  affect  the  efficiency 
appreciably.  ,1 

1.4  The  diodes  made  by  the  diffusion  of  sihcon  are  very  attractive' 
from  an  engineering  standpoint  for  several  reasons.  First  of  all,  their ; 
behavior  is  predictable  from  the  theory  of  semiconductor  devices,  as 
are  junction  transistors.  This  makes  it  possible  to  design  rectifiers  of 
given  electrical,  thermal,  and  mechanical   characteristics.   Secondly, : 
rectifier  elements  of  many  sizes  are  available  from  the  same  diffused  < 
wafers  making  it  possible  to  use  the  same  diffusion  process,  material, 
and  equipment  for  a  range  of  devices.  Thirdly,  large  enough  elements 
can  be  processed  so  that  the  power  dissipation  in  the  unit  is  limited 
only  by  the  thermal  impedance  of  mount  and  package. 

2.0    DIFFUSION    PROCESS 

t 

2.1  It  will  be  shown  in  3.2  that  the  forward  characteristic  of  these 
devices  is  practically  independent  of  the  type  (n  or  p)  and  resistivity 
of  the  starting  material.  The  reverse  breakdown  voltage  of  a  silicon  p-n 
junction  depends  primarily  on  the  resistivity  of  the  lightly  doped  region. 
With  these  two  considerations  in  mind;  that  is,  to  fabricate  rectifiers 
having  the  desirable  excellent  forward  characteristic  and  at  the  same 
time  high  reverse  breakdown  voltage,  high  resistivity  siUcon  is  used  as ; 
the  starting  material  for  the  diffused  barrier  silicon  rectifiers.  Single 
crystal  material  has  been  found  to  give  a  better  reverse  characteristic 
than  multicrystalline  material.  Also,  it  has  been  found  that  p-type  ma- 
terial has  yielded  units  with  a  better  reverse  characteristic  than  n-type 
material.  Therefore,  in  the  remainder  of  this  paper,  we  will  limit  dis-';' 
cussion  to  rectifiers  made  from  high  resistivity,  single  crystalline,  p-type /"i 
silicon.  We  will  designate  this  material  as  ir  type  silicon. 

2.2  In  addition  to  the  fine  control  one  has  in  the  diffusion  process 
(see  2.4),  the  process  lends  itself  admirably  to  the  semiconductor  recti-' 
fier  field  in  as  much  as  the  distribution  of  impurities  in  this  process  re- ; 
suits  in  a  gradual  transition  from  a  degenerate  semiconductor  at  the' 
surface  of  the  material  to  a  non-degenerate  semiconductor  a  short  dis- 
tance below  the  surface.  This  condition  permits  low  resistance  ohmic 
metallic;  contacts  to  be  made  to  the  surfaces  of  the  diffused  silicon. 

In  order  to  create  a  p-n  junction  in  the  x  silicon,  it  is  necessary  to 
diffuse  donor  imjiurities  into  one  side  of  the  slice.  Although  several  donor 
type  imi)urities  have  been  diffused  into  siUcon,  all  the  devices  discussed 


I 


DIFFUSED    p-n   JUNCTION    SILICON    RECTIFIERS 


665 


in  this  paper  were  fabricated  by  using  phosphorus  as  the  donor  impurity. 
In  order  to  make  the  extremely  low  resistance  contact  to  the  tt  side  of 
the  junction  that  is  desirable  in  rectifiers,  acceptor  nnpurities  are  dif- 
fused into  the  opposite  side  of  the  x  silicon  slice.  Boron  was  selected 
from  the  several  possible  acceptor  type  impurities  to  use  for  the  fabri- 
cation of  these  devices.  A  configuration  of  the  diffused  slice  is  shown  in 
Figure  2. 

2.3  It  will  be  shown  in  Section  3  that  there  are  limits  to  the  thick- 
nesses of  the  three  regions,  N-{-,  x,  P+,  due  to  the  nature  of  the  opera- 
tion of  these  rectifiers  With  present  techniques,  it  is  necessary  to  keep 


^LOW-RESISTANCE    CONTACTSn 
/  . . _ -\ 


ACTIVE  p-n 

JUNCTION 


Fig.  2  —  Diffused  silicon  rectifier  configuration. 

the  thickness  of  the  t  region  to  the  order  of  two  or  three  mils  (thou- 
sandths of^an  inch). 

2,4  In  the  diffusion  process  of  introducing  impurities  in  silicon  for 
the  purpose  of  creating  junctions  or  ohmic  contacts,  the  diffusant  is 
deposited  on  the  silicon  and  serves  as  an  infinite  source.  The  resulting 
concentration  of  the  diffusant  is  given  by 

9       rx/\/iDt        , 

c  =  Cc  1  -  4-  /         ^    dy 

V  TT  ''0 


(1) 


=  Co  erf c  y 


where     C     =   concentration  at  distance  x  below  surface 
Co   =   concentration  at  surface 

D    =   diffusion  constant  for  impurity  at  temperature  of  dif- 
fusion 


66G       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  MAY  1956 


t     =   total  time  of  diffusion 

X 

y     =       /jyr-  =  variable  of  integration 

A  plot  of  C/Co  =  erfc  y  versus  y  is  given  in  Fig.  3.  Co  is  the  surface  solu- 
bility density  and  depends  upon  the  tempers  are  of  the  diffusion  proc- 
ess/ At  some  depth,  Xj ,  the  concentration  C  equals  the  original  im- 
purity concentration  where  the  silicon  will  change  conductivity  type 
resulting  in  a  junction.  In  order  to  obtain  desirable  depths  of  the  dif- 
fused layers,  A^+  and  P+,  it  is  necessary  to  diffuse  at  temperatures  in 
the  range  of  1000°G  to  1300°C  for  periods  of  hours.  With  such  periods 
it  is  obvious  that  the  diffusion  process  lends  itself  to  easy  control  and 
reproducibiUty. 

.3.0    CONDUCTIVITY    MODULATION 

3.1  It  is  well  known  that  the  series  resistance  of  a  power  rectifier  is 
the  most  important  electrical  parameter  to  control  and  should  be  made 
as  small  as  possible  for  several  reasons.  The  series  resistance  consists 
essentially  of  two  parts;  the  body  resistance  of  the  semiconductor  and 
the  contact  resistance  to  the  semiconductor.  In  the  early  stages  of  recti- 
fier development  both  parts  of  the  series  resistance  contributed  about 
equally  to  the  total  series  resistance.  However,  methods  were  soon  found 
to  reduce  the  contact  resistance.  It  then  became  apparent  that  in  order 
to  reduce  the  body  resistance,  the  geometry  would  have  to  be  changed 
and  the  resistivity  chosen  carefullJ^  By  going  to  larger,  thinner  wafers 
it  was  possible  to  reduce  this  body  resistance.  However,  the  cost  of 
pure  silicon  made  it  important  that  conductivity  modulation  (described 
below)  be  incorporated  in  these  devices  as  a  method  for  reducing  the 
body  resistance.  Our  initial  attempts  were  successful  due  to  the  fact 
that  higher  lifetime  of  minority  carriers  could  be  maintained  in  the  ex- 
tremely thin  wafers  that  were  used  as  compared  to  the  lifetime  remain-  ^ 
ing  after  the  diffusion  process  in  thicker  wafers. 

3.2  A  complete  mathematical  description  of  the  I-V  characteristic 
for  the  conductivity  modulated  rectifier  is  practically  impossible  due 
to  the  fact  that  the  equations  are  transcendental.  However,  it  is  easy 
to  understand  the  operation  of  the  device  physically. 

When  the  device  is  biased  in  the  forward  direction,  electrons  from 
the  heavily  doped  N-\-  region  are  injected  into  the  high  resistivity  ir 
region.  If  the  lifetime  for  these  electrons  in  the  tt  region  is  long  enough, 
the  electrons  will  diffuse  across  the  w  region  and  reach  the  P-f  region 

*  Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Ditzenberger,  J.  A.,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  25,  p.  143!),  li)54. 


DIFFUSED    jy-n    JUNCTION    SILICON    RECTIFIERS 


667 


II 


10 


10 


10" 


10 


10" 


10 


2 
3 
4 
5 

6 
7 


0.4 


O.f 


1.6 


2.0 

y 


2.4 


3.2        3.6        4.0 


Fig.  3.  —  Error  function  complement. 


with  little  recombination.  To  maintain  electrical  neutrality,  holes  are 
jinjected  into  the  x  region  from  the  P+  region.  These  extra  mobile  car- 
riers (both  eleictrons  and  holes)  reduce  the  effective  resistance  of  the  tt 
jlayer  and  thus  decrease  the  voltage  drop  across  this  layer.  The  higher 
(he  current  density,  the  higher  is  the  injected  mobile  carrier  densities 
Mid  therefore,  the  lower  is  the  effective  resistance.  It  is  for  this  reason 
iliat  the  process  is  termed  conductivity  modulation.  This  effect  tends 
'to  make  the  voltage  drop  across  the  tv  region  almost  independent  of  the 
current,  resistivity,  and  semiconductor  type. 

When  the  junction  is  biased  in  the  reverse  direction,  a  normal  re- 
verse characteristic  with  an  avalanche  breakdown  is  expected  and  ob- 
served. 

3.3  The  forward  characteristic  of  a  typical  \uiit  is  plotted  semi- 
logarithmically  in  Fig.  4.  The  best  fit  to  the  low  current  data  can  be 


G68 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


expressed  as 


/  =  7oe«^'^'=^ 


where     I     =  current  thru  unit 

7o   =  constant 

q     =  charge  of  electron 

V   =  voltage  across  unit 

k     =  Boltzmann's  constant 

T    =  absolute  temperature 

and  1<  .V  <  2. 


(2) 


10 


10" 


to 

a 

UJ 
Q. 

< 


UJ 
<£. 

o 


10 


-2 


10" 


10 


10 


10 


y 

/ 

/ 

/^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

f 

/ 

r 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

qv/i.29kT 

I  =  Ioe 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

v 

-6 


0.2 


0.3 


0.4 


0.5  0.6 

VOLTS 


0.7 


0.8 


0.9 


Fig.  4  —  Forward  characteristic  of  silicon  power  rectifier. 


DIFFUSED    p-n  JUNCTION    SILICON   EECTIFIERS 


CG9 


I 
O 


< 

UJ 

u 
z 
< 


HI 

tr 


100 
50 


20 


10 


1.0 


0.5 


0.2 


O.t  0 


0.05 


0.02 


0.01 


1 

k 

\ 

N 

\, 

T 

k 

S." 

\ 

s. 

N 

\ 

V 

°\ 

\, 

S 

k 

N 

\ 

\ 

0.001 


0.01  0.1  1.0 

CURRENT,   Idci'N    amperes 


10 


Fig.  5  —  Small  signal  resistance  versus  dc  forward  current. 

The  departure  of  the  high  current  data  from  the  exponential  charac- 
teristic is  due  to  the  contact  resistance.  Another  interesting  measure- 
ment of  the  forward  characteristic  is  given  in  Fig.  5  where  the  small 
signal  ac  resistance  is  plotted  as  a  function  of  the  forward  dc  current 
for  a  typical  rectifier  element.  The  departure  from  the  simple  rectifier 
theory^  where  iV  =  1  is  not  surprising  inasmuch  as  p-n  junctions  made 
by  various  methods  and  of  different  materials  almost  always  have  A^  >  1. 
Several  calculations  have  been  carried  out  using  different  assumptions 
and  all  indicate  that  the  forward  characteristic  is  independent  of  the 
type  and  resistivity  of  the  middle  region  as  long  as  the  diffusion  length 
for  minority  carriers  is  the  order  of  or  larger  than  the  thickness  of  the 
region. 

3.4  In  order  to  go  to  higher  reverse  breakdown  voltages  (>500  volts) 
it  is  necessary  to  use  still  higher  resistivity  starting  material.  It  might 
be  expected  that  intrinsic  silicon  will  be  used  for  the  highest  reverse 
breakdown  voltages  when  it  becomes  available.  How^ever,  in  this  case 


"  Shockley,  W.,  B.S.T.J.,  28,  p.  435, 1949. 


II 


070  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1950 


thick  wafers  are  necessary  since  the  reverse  biased  junction  space  charge 
region  extends  rapidly  with  voltage  for  almost  intrinsic  material,  and 
high  lifetime  is  necessary  in  order  to  get  the  conductivity  modulation 
effect  in  these  thick  w^afers.  Therefore  at  present  it  is  necessary  to  com- 
promise the  highest  reverse  breakdown  voltages  with  the  lowest  for- 
ward voltage  drops,  in  a  similar  manner  to  that  discussed  in  Section  1. 
However  this  is  now  done  at  a  different  order  of  magnitude  of  voltage 
and  current  density.  | 

4.0    FABRICATION    OF   MODELS 

4.1  It  has  been  pointed  out  in  Section  1.2  that  a  low  series  resistance, 
Rs ,  is  desirable  and  that  it  is  composed  of  two  parts;  the  body  resistance 
and  the  contact  resistance.  In  Section  3  a  method  for  reducing  the  body 
resistance  was  described.  The  contact  resistance  can  also  be  made  very  ! 
low.  It  has  been  found  to  be  very  difficult  to  solder  low  temperature 
solders  (M.P.  up  to  325°C)  to  silicon  with  any  of  the  standard  commer- 
cial fluxes.  However,  it  is  quite  easy  to  plate  various  metals  to  a  surface 
of  silicon  from  an  electroplating  bath  or  by  an  electro-less  process^  to  ! 
which  leads  can  readily  be  soldered.  Some  metals  used  for  plating  con- 
tacts are  rhodium,  gold,  copper,  and  nickel.  This  type  of  contact  yields 
a  low  contact  resistance.  Another  techniciue  that  has  shown  some  prom- 
ise for  making  the  necessary  extremely  low  resistance  contact  is  the 
hydride  fluxing  method.'^  1 

4.2  A  wafer  which  may  be  about  one  inch  in  diameter  is  ready  to  be  i 
diced  after  it  is  prepared  for  a  soldering  operation.  Up  to  this  point  all ; 
the  material  may  undergo  the  same  processing.  Now  it  is  necessary  to  ' 
decide  how  the  prepared  material  is  to  be  used;  whether  low  current  i 
('^l  amp)  devices  or  medium  or  high  current  ('^10-50  amps)  devices;. 
are  desired.  The  common  treatment  of  all  material  for  the  entire  class  i 
of  rectifiers  is  one  reason  these  devices  are  highly  attractive  from  a  . 
manufacturing  point  of  view.  | 

The  dicing  process  may  be  one  of  several  techniques;  mechanical! 
cutting  with  a  saw,  breaking  along  preferred  directions,  etching  alonii 
given  paths  with  chemical  or  electrical  means  after  suitable  maskiiiti 
methods,  etc.  In  the  case  of  mechanical  damage  to  the  exposed  junc- 
tions, the  dice  should  be  etched  to  remove  the  damaged  material.  The 
dice  are  cleaned  by  rinses  in  suitable  solvents  and  are  then  ready  for 

«  Brenner,  A.,  and  Riddell,  Grace  E.  J.,  Proc.  American  Electroplaters'  Society, 
33,  p.  16,  1946,34,1).  156,  1947. 

'  Sullivan,  M.  V.,  Hydrides  as  Alloying  Agents  on  Silicon,  Semiconductor 
Symposium  of  the  Electrochemical  Society,  May  2-5,  1955. 


I 


DIFFUSED    p-n   JUNCTION   SILICON    RECTIFIERS 


671 


assemlily  into  the  mechanical  package  designed  for  a  given  current 
rating. 

4.3  The  dice  may  be  tested  electrically  before  assembly  by  using 
pressure  contacts  to  either  side.  Pressure  contacts  have  been  considered 
for  packaging  the  units;  however,  this  type  of  contact  was  dropped  from 
development  due  to  mechanical  chemical,  and  electrical  instabilities. 

4.4  The  drawbacks  of  the  pressure  contact  make  it  important  to  find 
a  solder  contact  that  does  not  have  the  same  objections.  The  solder  used 
should  have  a  melting  point  above  300°C,  be  soft  to  allow  for  different 
coefficients  of  expansion  of  the  silicon  and  the  copper  connections,  wet 
the  plated  metal,  and  finally,  be  chemically  inactive  even  at  the  high 
temperature  operation  of  the  device.  These  recjuirements  are  met  with 
many  solders  in  a  package  that  is  hermetically  sealed.  This  combina- 
tion of  a  solder  and  a  hermetically  sealed  package  has  been  adopted  for 
the  intermediate  development  of  the  diffused  silicon  power  rectifiers. 


5.0   ELECTRICAL   PERFORMANCE    CHARACTERISTICS 

5.1  Before  describing  the  electrical  properties  of  these  diodes,  let  us 
consider  some  of  the  physical  properties  of  a  few  members  of  the  class. 


r~=^^T:) 


SMALL 
0-1  AMPERES 


MEDIUM 
1-10  AMPERES 


LARGE 
10-100  AMPERES 


Fig.  6  —  Development  silicon  rectifiers. 


672 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


10   -  10   -^  10    '  10 

CURRENT    IN    AMPERES 


1 


10' 


Fig.  7  —  I-V  characteristic  of  medium  size  rectifier. 

Fig.  6  shows  a  picture  of  three  sizes  of  units  that  will  be  discussed  in 
this  section  together  with  the  range  of  currents  that  these  units  can  con- 
duct. The  actual  current  rating  will  depend  upon  the  ability  of  the  de- 
vice to  dispose  of  the  heat  dissipated  in  the  unit.  A  description  of  how 
the  rating  is  reached  is  given  in  Section  6. 

The  smallest  device  has  a  silicon  die  that  is  0.030''  by  0.030"  in  area 


10- 


10' 


10 


to 

I- 


o 
> 


10 


10 


SMALL 

REVERSE 



^- 

_^^ 

.       LARGE 

_«' 

^•"f-^ 

y"^"^ 

/ 

• 
/ 
/ 
f 

// 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 
/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

f  1 

FORV 

VARD 

*^ 

'-^^S^ 

~ 

'^^ 

lO""  10'  10   °  to   "  10  ^  10  10  '^ 

CURRENT    IN    AMPERES 


10 


10 


Fig.  8  —  I-V  characteristics  of  devehjpment  rectifiers. 


DIFFUSED    y-n   JUNCTION   SILICON    RECTIFIERS  673 

i  I  and  all  the  units  have  dice  about  0.005"  thick.  The  medium  size  device 
has  a  wafer  0.100"  by  0.100"  in  area.  The  largest  device  has  a  element 
0.250"  by  0.250"  in  area.  It  is  obvious  that  a  range  of  die  size  could  have 
been  chosen  for  any  of  these  rectifiers.  However,  electrical  and  thermal 
considerations  have  dictated  minimum  sizes  and  economic  considera- 
tions have  suggested  maximum  sizes.  The  actual  sizes  are  intermediate 
in  value  and  appear  to  be  satisfactory  for  the  given  ratings. 

5.2  Of  fundamental  importance  to  users  of  these  rectifiers  are  the  for- 
ward and  reverse  current  —  voltage  characteristics.  These  characteris- 
tics of  the  medium  size  iniit  are  shown  in  Fig.  7  for  two  temperatures, 
25°C  and  125°C,  using  logarithmic  scales.  It  can  be  seen  that  in  the 
forward  direction  at  room  temperature,  25°C,  more  than  20  amperes 
are  conducted  with  a  one  volt  drop  in  the  rectifier.  At  the  higher  tem- 
perature more  current  will  be  conducted  for  a  given  voltage  drop.  In 
the  reverse  direction,  this  particular  unit  can  withstand  inverse  voltages 
as  high  as  300  volts  before  conducting  appreciable  currents  (>1  ma) 
even  at  125°C.  A  comparison  of  the  current-voltage  characteristics  for 
the  three  different  size  units  is  shown  in  Fig.  8  where  again  the  informa- 
tion is  plotted  on  logarithmic  scales.  This  information  was  obtained  at 
25°C.  One  can  observe  that  the  reverse  leakage  current  varies  directly 
as  the  area  of  the  device  and  the  forward  voltage  drop  varies  inversely 
as  the  area.  These  relations  are  to  be  expected;  however,  the  reverse 
characteristics  indicate  that  surface  effects  are  probably  effecting  the 
exact  shape  of  the  curves.  The  changes  in  the  forward  characteristics 
can  be  attributed  to  the  contacts  and  the  internal  leads  of  the  packages. 
The  breakdown  voltage  can  be  adjusted  in  any  size  device  by  the  proper 
choice  of  starting  material  and  therefore  no  significance  should  be  placed 
on  the  different  breakdown  voltages  in  Fig.  8. 


SILICON  GERMANIUM  SELENIUM 


Fig.  9  —  Semiconductor  rectifiers  of  different  materials. 


674 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


CURRENT    IN    AMPERES 


Fig.  10  —  Rectifier  characteristics  at  25°C. 


It  is  quite  interesting  to  compare  these  units  with  germanium  and 
selenium  rectifiers  that  are  commercially  available.  To  make  the  com- 
parison as  realistic  as  one  can,  we  have  chosen  to  compare  the  smallest 
silicon  vuiit  with  a  commercially  available  germanium  unit  and  a  six 
element  selenium  rectifier  stack  rated  at  100  milliamperes.  The  com- 
parative size  of  these  units  can  be  seen  in  Fig.  9.  Curves  of  the  forward 
and  reverse  characteristics  at  25°C  are  given  in  Fig.  10.  Similar  curves 
taken  at  80°C  are  given  in  Fig.  11  and  at  125°C  in  Fig.  12.  It  can  be 
seen  that  the  forward  characteristic  is  best  for  the  germanium  device 
at  all  temperatures  and  that  the  reverse  currents  are  least  for  the  silicon 
rectifier.  The  selenium  rectifier  is  a  poor  third  in  the  forward  direction. 
However,  if  one  has  to  operate  the  device  at  125°C,  only  the  silicon  de- 
vice will  be  satisfactory  in  both  the  forward  and  reverse  directions. 

5.3  Capacitance  measurements  of  all  the  silicon  units  have  been  made 
at  different  reverse  voltages  and  temperatures.  The  temperature  depend- 
ence is  negligible.  However,  as  expected  in  semiconductor  rectifiers, 
the  capacitance  varies  inversely  with  the  voltage  according  to  the  rela- 
tion VC^  =  constant  where  2  <  N  <  3.  Measurements  are  given  in 
Fig.  13  for  a  group  of  medium  size  units.  The  other  units  made  from 
the  same  resistivity  mat(n'ial  have  capacitances  that  vary  dii'cctly  as 
their  areas. 


DIFFUSED    p-n   JUNCTION   SILICON    RECTIFIERS 


675 


5.4  The  reverse  breakdown  voltage,  Vb  ,  of  these  devices  is  controlled 
by  the  choice  of  resistivity  of  the  starting  material  and  the  depth  of 
diffusion  of  the  junction.  By  keeping  the  resistivity  of  the  initial  p-type 
silicon  above  20  ohm-cm.,  it  is  possible  to  keep  Vb  above  200  volts. 
Units  have  been  made  with  Vb  greater  than  1,000  volts.  The  deeper 
diffusion  causes  the  junction  to  be  more  "graded"^  and  therefore  re- 
quire a  greater  voltage  for  the  breakdown  characteristic.  This  is  in  line 
with  the  capacitance  measurements  where  the  exponent  indicates  that 
the  junction  is  neither  a  purely  abrupt  junction  which  would  result  in 
an  exponent  of  two  nor  a  constant  gradient  junction  which  would  result 
in  an  exponent  of  three. 

5.5  Another  interesting  measurement,  which  is  related  to  the  life- 
time of  minority  carriers  in  the  high-resistivity  region  and  the  frequency 
response,  is  the  recovery  time  of  these  devices.  During  a  forward  bias  on 
a  p-n  junction,  excess  minoritj^  carriers  are  injected  into  either  region. 
When  the  applied  voltage  polarity  is  reversed,  these  excess  minority 
carriers  flow  out  of  these  regions,  giving  rise  initially  to  a  large  reverse 
current  until  the  excess  carriers  are  removed.  The  magnitude  and  time 
variation  of  this  current  will  depend  to  some  extent  upon  the  level  of 
the  forward  current  but  mostly  upon  the  circuit  resistance.  If  one  ad- 
justs the  circuit  resistance  such  that  the  maximum  initial  current  in 


CURRENT     IN    AMPERES 


Fig.  11  —  Rectifier  characteristics  at  80°C. 


676 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


CURRENT    IN    AMPERES 


Fig.  12  —  Rectifier  characteristics  at  125°C. 

the  reverse  direction  is  equal  to  the  forward  current  before  reversing  i 
the  polarity  of  the  junction,  then  the  reverse  current  will  have  a  con-  i 
stant  magnitude,  limited  ])y  the  circuit  resistance,  for  a  time  known  as  •' 
the  recovery  time  before  it  decays  to  a  small  steady-state  value.  Fig.  14  . 
shows  graphically  this  effect.  The  recovery  time  in  diffused  junctions  |i 
is  found  to  be  in  the  range  of  less  than  0.1  microsecond  to  more  than  4 


Q  200 
< 

< 

O 

tr    100 

U 

i     80 

O 

a      60 

o 

2 

40 


UJ 

U 

z 
< 


20 


< 

a. 

<      10 
u 


1 


6      8    10 


20  40      60 

VOLTS 


100  200  400  600     1000. 


Fig.  13  —  Capacitance  versus  reverse  voltage  in  medium  size  rectifer. 


DIFFUSED    p-n   JUNCTION   SILICON    RECTIFIERS 


677 


z 

LU 
CE 

q: 

D 
O 


FORWARD 

REVERSE                y^ 

RECOVERY 
•*■--  TIME *■ 

-If 


TIME,  t   — *- 

Fig.  14  —  Recovery  effect  in  silicon  rectifiers. 

microseconds.  It  can  be  shown  that  the  longer  recovery  times  are  associ- 
ated with  higher  Hfetimes  of  minority  carriers.  More  interesting,  how- 
ever, is  the  fact  that  these  devices  will  have  their  excellent  rectification 
characteristics  to  frequencies  near  the  reciprocal  of  the  recovery  time. 
Measurements  have  been  made  of  the  rectification  ability  of  typical 
small  and  medium  size  units  by  using  the  circuit  shown  in  Fig.  15.  The 
results  of  normalized  rectified  current  versus  frequency  are  given  in 
[Fig.  16  and  it  is  seen  that  these  units  could  be  used  to  rectify  power  up 
to  1  kc/sec  without  any  appreciable  loss  of  efficiency. 
\  5.6  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  many  of  the  electrical  measurements 
,inade  with  the  diffused  barrier  silicon  rectifiers  are  self-consistent  and 
jean  be  related  to  simple  concepts  of  semiconductor  theory.  As  an  exam- 
!ple,  experimental  measurements  indicating  variations  of  recovery  time 
I  of  units  are  related  to  variations  in  minority  carrier  lifetime  which  in 
turn  are  related  to  experimental  variations  in  the  forward  characteristic 


OSCILLATOR 


AAA- 
1000  n 


Fig.  15  —  Rectification  measuring  circuit. 


G78 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


>■ 
u 

2 


Z 

o 

I- 
< 


u 


UJ 
> 

< 


1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 


< 

» — & 

^    a      I 

i     « 

i 

> 

▲ 

•  MEDIUM 
▲  SMALL 

< 
i 

1 

Ua  ^ 

^ 

• 

A 

▲ 

1 
• 

▲ 

1 

▲ 

10 


I 


10' 


to'' 


10' 


10- 


10° 


10' 


FREQUENCY     IN    CYCLES    PER    SECOND 


Fig.  16  —  Relative  rectification  efficiency  versus  frequency. 

of  these  same  devices.  Such  relationships  among  the  measurable  param- 
eters of  these  devices  make  it  possible  to  design  and  control  the  elec- 
trical characteristics  of  the  units  and  therefore  make  them  extremely 
attractive  from  an  engineering  point  of  view. 


6.0    MECHANICAL   AND    THERMAL   DESIGN 

6.1  In  order  to  have  a  device  that  is  usable  for  more  than  experimen- 
tal purposes,  it  is  necessary  that  it  be  packaged  in  a  mechanically  stable; 
structure  and  that  the  heat  generated  in  the  combined  unit  should  not' 
lead  to  a  condition  ^vhere  the  device  no  longer  has  its  desirable  charac- 
teristics. In  earlier  sections  of  this  paper  several  mechanical  require- 
ments of  a  satisfactory  package  have  been  suggested.  These  may  be 
repeated  at  this  point.  First,  pressure  contacts  are  not  satisfactory;  sec- 
ond, oxidizing  ambients  are  to  be  avoided;  third,  approximately  one 
watt  per  ampere  of  forward  current  is  generated  and  must  be  disposed ; 
and  fourth,  the  package  must  be  electrically  satisfactory.  The  first  rc- 
(juirement  is  met  by  using  soldered  contacts.  Since  these  rectifiers  are, 
usable  at  temperatures  over  200°C,  a  solder  was  chosen  that  has  a  melt- 
ing point  over  300°C.  The  second  recjuirement  necessitated  the  use  of 
a  hermetic  seal  structure.  If  the  seal  is  truly  hermetic,  no  gases  can 


DIFFUSED    p-7l    JUNCTION    SILICON    RECTIFIERS  679 

enter  or  leave  the  package  and  thus  no  changes  of  the  device  due  to  the 
enclosed  gas  should  occur  as  long  as  the  gas  does  not  react  with  the  sili- 
con, solder  or  package.  However,  no  seal  is  absolutely  vacuum  tight 
and  thus  care  should  be  used  in  choosing  a  package  design  so  that  mini- 
mum effects  should  occur  to  the  electrical  properties  during  the  use  of 
the  device.  The  third  requirement  of  the  disposal  of  the  internally  de- 
veloped heat  suggested  the  use  of  copper  due  to  its  high  thermal  conduc- 
tivity. However,  a  small  package  alone  is  capable  of  dissipating  only  a 
small  amount  of  heat  without  reaching  a  temperature  that  is  too  high 
for  the  device.  This  necessitates  the  use  of  cooling  fins  in  conjunction 
with  the  device  to  make  use  of  its  electrical  properties.  This  thermal 
requirement  demands  a  package  to  which  thermal  fins  can  be  attached. 
This  is  met  by  having  the  package  contain  a  bolt  terminal  to  which 
thermal  fins  can  be  attached  or  by  which  the  unit  can  be  mounted  to  a 
chassis  for  cooling.  The  fourth  requirement  consists  of  two  parts;  the 
package  must  have  two  leads  that  are  electrically  separated  from  one 
another  and  the  leads  must  be  sufficiently  heavy  to  conduct  the  maxi- 
mum currents.  The  first  of  these  requirements  is  met  by  using  glass-to- 
metal  seals  in  the  package  and  the  second  is  met  by  using  copper  leads 
of  sufficiently  heavy  cross-section.  The  resulting  packages  for  the  units 
discussed  in  this  paper  are  shown  in  Fig.  6.  It  should  be  remembered 
that  the  packages  are  only  intermediate  development  packages  and  that 
further  work  will  probably  alter  these  both  in  size  and  in  shape.  How- 
ever, all  the  requirements  mentioned  will  be  applicable  to  any  package. 
6.2  The  units  pictured  in  Fig.  6  have  a  range  of  dc  current  ratings 
associated  with  them.  The  lower  rating  of  each  device  corresponds  to 
the  maximum  rating  of  the  next  smaller  device.  Of  course,  the  larger 
units  could  be  used  for  smaller  current  applications;  however,  such  use 
M'ould  be  like  using  a  freight  car  to  haul  a  pound  of  coal.  The  maximiuu 
rating  of  each  de^'ice  has  been  arbitrarily  chosen  for  it  to  operate  with 
a  reasonable  sized  cooling  fin  at  an  ambient  of  125°C  and  no  forced  air 
or  water  cooling.  It  is  known  that  the  ratings  could  be  increased  by 
either  method  of  forced  cooling.  It  has  been  found  that  a  copper  con- 
vection cooling  fin  is  able  to  dissipate  8  milliwatts  per  square  inch  per 
degree  centigrade.  This  cooling  rate  is  obtained  from  the  difference  be- 
tween the  average  temperature  of  the  fin  and  the  ambient  temperature 
over  the  effective  exposed  area  of  the  fin.  For  example,  a  copper  fin 
S}4,  inches  scjuare  when  mounted  so  that  both  surfaces  are  effective  for 
cooling  will  })e  able  to  dissipate  ten  watts  and  at  the  same  time  prevent 
the  temiK'rature  of  the  fin  from  exceeding  50°C  above  the  ambient  tem- 
perature. Another  thermal  drop  is  found  between  the  junction  and  the 


680  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

base  of  the  package.  This  temperature  difference  depends  mostly  on 
the  material  of  the  base  and  its  geometry.  In  the  devices  presented 
this  drop  is  not  more  than  15°C  at  the  maximum  rated  current.  Thus 
the  largest  drop  in  temperature  occurs  between  the  cooling  fin  and  the 
ambient  which  means  that  the  design  of  the  cooling  fin  is  the  controlling 
factor  in  the  operating  junction  temperature  of  the  rectifier. 

6.3  It  is  possible  to  use  the  devices  without  an  attached  cooling  fin. 
In  this  case,  the  maximum  current  is  limited  essentially  by  the  size  of 
the  package.  The  small  rectifier  package  is  designed  for  3^  watt  dissipa- 
tion and  therefore  the  maximum  current  that  should  be  rectified  is  about 
500  milliamperes.  The  medium  size  unit  will  comfortably  rectify  1  am- 
pere without  any  additional  cooling  and  the  large  rectifier  unit  will 
conduct  3  amperes  under  the  same  conditions. 

7.0   RELIABILITY   AND    LIFE    MEASUREMENTS 

7.1  One  of  the  desired  properties  of  any  device  is  that  it  should  op- 
erate satisfactorily  at  its  rating  for  a  long  period  of  time.  The  above 
general  statement  contains  many  implications  which  should  be  made 
specific  for  the  devices  under  consideration  in  this  paper.  By  stating 
that  these  devices  should  operate  satisfactorily  we  mean  that  they 
should  not  age  during  operation;  that  is,  the  forward  and  reverse  char- 
acteristics at  any  temperature  should  not  change  with  time.  The  state- 
ment implies  that  a  rating  has  been  established  for  the  units.  Further- 
more, a  "long  period  of  time"  has  to  be  defined.  There  are  applications 
where  a  few  hours  is  considered  a  long  time  as  in  some  military  appli- 
cations. However,  in  most  Bell  System  applications,  a  long  period  of 
time  may  be  20  years  or  approximately  200,000  hours.  Clearly,  in  the 
short  time  since  these  rectifiers  have  been  developed,  it  is  impossible 
to  make  a  fair  statement  as  to  their  reliability  and  their  life  expectancy.  , 
However,  it  is  possible  to  present  some  results  of  some  early  experi-  | 
ments  and  describe  where  and  how  the  units  have  lived  and  died.  It  is  ] 
this  information  that  we  will  present  in  this  section.  It  is  a  common  ex-  I 
perience  that  during  the  early  development  of  any  new  component,  i 
there  are  many  units  that  do  not  satisfy  all  the  requirements  of  the  de-  | 
sired  end  product.  These  units  will  generally  deteriorate  very  rapidly  | 
on  life  testing  due  to  some  electrical  or  mechanical  instability.  The 
units  used  for  life  testing  have  been  screened  to  remove  the  above  men- 
tioned unstable  devices. 

7.2  The  life  tests  consist  of  four  types;  shelf  tests  at  room  tempera- 
ture and  at  150°C,  forward  characteristic  tests,  reverse  characteristic 


I 


DIFFUSED    p-n   JUNCTION    SILICON    RECTIFIERS  681 

tests,  and  load  tests.  The  last  tests  are  really  the  important  tests;  how- 
ever, these  require  the  dissipation  of  large  quantities  of  power  in  the 
load  to  test  only  a  few  devices.  Therefore  only  a  few  units  were  tested 
in  this  condition  and  the  majority  tested  under  other  conditions.  The 
several  units  under  load  test  have  been  operating  for  six  months  with 
no  noticeable  change  in  their  characteristics.  These  devices  are  the  small 
and  medium  size  development  units.  The  large  rectifiers  would  require 
about  10  kilowatts  of  dissipation  each  in  a  load  to  give  them  a  fair  load 
test. 

The  shelf  tests  at  room  temperature  and  at  a  temperature  of  i50°C 
have  been  running  for  six  months  and  have  indicated  that  most  of  the 
units  remain  practically  constant.  There  have  been  some  units  that 
improve  on  standing  but  there  is  no  method  of  predicting  which  ones 
will  improve.  Some  units  get  worse  on  standing;  however,  most  of  these 
can  be  predicted  from  the  initial  tests  since  these  units  usually  have  a 
noisy  reverse  characteristic  near  the  reverse  breakdown  voltage.  The 
units  that  change  differ  only  in  their  reverse  characteristic;  the  forward 
characteristic  changes  are  not  detectable  indicating  that  the  contacts 
are  stable.  The  changes  in  the  reverse  characteristic  are  probably  due 
to  the  trapping  of  ions  and  vapors  on  the  surface  of  the  devices  during 
the  packaging  operation.  Another  source  of  these  variations  is  due  to 
the  non-hermeticity  of  the  glass-to-metal  seals  allowing  gases  to  diffuse 
into  the  package  where  they  may  cause  changes  in  the  reverse  charac- 
teristic. These  leaks  have  been  found  in  many  early  units  and  new  as- 
semblies are  being  tried  at  present. 
f  The  forward  characteristic  life  test  was  considered  a  good  test  since 
the  device  is  subject  to  practically  all  the  internal  power  dissipation 
without  reciuiring  the  relatively  high  load  dissipation.  It  is  tests  of  this 
nature  that  allow  one  to  rate  the  various  size  devices.  The  medium  size 
rectifiers  that  ran  at  15  amperes  in  this  test  failed  after  three  months 
of  testing;  whereas  no  units  running  at  5  and  10  amperes  have  failed 
during  the  six  months  since  the  tests  have  started  although  their  re- 
verse characteristics  have  changed  slightly.  It  should  be  noted  that 
most  of  the  change  of  reverse  characteristic  occurred  during  the  first 
test  period  of  two  weeks.  These  changes  are  probably  due  to  the  causes 
mentioned  in  the  above  paragraph. 

Reverse  characteristic  tests  have  been  running  for  several  months  on 
a  group  of  10  small  rectifiers  which  we  feel  have  a  better  gas  tight  seal 
than  the  other  development  units.  The  voltage  has  been  adjusted  on 
these  units  such  that  they  are  pulsed  into  the  breakdown  region  with  a 


682  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

maximum  current  of  one  millianipere.  None  of  these  units  show  any  ap- 
preciable change. 

7.3  All  of  those  tests  in  the  past  sub-section  had  to  do  with  continu- 
ous dc  or  ac  power  being  supplied  to  the  units  under  test.  However,  in 
actual  operation  the  units  may  be  subject  to  voltage  pulses  due  to 
power  line  pulses,  accidental  shorts,  etc.  In  order  for  the  rectifier  to  be 
useful,  it  should  be  able  to  take  an  overload  for  a  period  of  time  suffi- 
ciently long  to  allow  a  protective  device  to  operate.  Pulse  tests  have  been 
performed  on  the  medium  size  rectifier.  These  devices  are  able  to  with- 
stand over  300  amperes  for  times  of  the  order  of  50  microseconds.  How- 
ever, the  fastest  circuit  breakers  operate  in  about  20  milliseconds  and 
for  this  period,  these  units  can  stand  onl}^  approximately  50  amperes 
before  failing.  Since  these  units  have  such  a  low  forward  resistance  at 
the  operating  currents  (Fig.  7),  any  small  increase  in  voltage  across  the 
diode  will  change  the  current  through  the  device  to  a  very  large  cjuan- 
tity.  Therefore  series  protective  resistances  may  be  necessary  where 
the  possibility  of  short-circuiting  the  device  is  high.  Such  operation 
would  reduce  the  efficiency  of  the  unit  and  is  to  be  avoided  if  possible. 
Another  type  of  protection  may  be  afforded  through  the  use  of  a  high 
impedance,  high  current  inductor.  This  type  of  protection  is  quite  bulky 
and  heavy  and  suitable  only  for  stationary  apparatus.  Another  common 
possibility  of  burnout  of  the  devices  occvu's  when  using  a  capacitance 
input  in  conjunction  with  the  rectifier.  When  the  circuit  is  turned  on, 
large  currents  will  flow  to  charge  up  the  capacitors  and  consequently 
burn  out  the  rectifiers.  One  possible  protection  from  such  operation  is 
the  use  of  a  series  resistance  in  conjunction  with  a  time  delay  relay.  The| 
series  resistance  will  limit  the  initial  capacitor  charging  current  and  the 
time  delay  relay  will  short  out  the  resistance  after  the  capacitors  have 
reached  near  their  maximum  charge. 

7.4  Dissection  of  burned  out  units  have  indicated  that  the  failure 
takes  place  through  small  spots  on  the  device.  This  can  be  explained  by 
the  fact  that  some  small  areas  of  the  device  have  slightly  better  forward 
characteristics.  These  areas  will  tend  to  conduct  most  of  the  forward 
current.  Therefore  most  of  the  power  will  be  dissipated  there  and  these 
areas  will  become  even  more  conducting  leading  to  a  channeling  of  the 
forward  current  through  these  spots  with  the  consequent  burnout.  The 
best  way  to  avoid  such  mishaps  would  be  to  make  a  more  uniform  de- 
vice. Experiments  are  in  process  along  this  line.  Another  less  satisfactory  - 
method  would  be  the  control  of  contact  resistance  such  that  the  current 
would  be  limited  in  any  particular  area  by  the  contact  resistance.  Simi- 
lar ideas  must  be  considered  when  paralleling  these  diffused  junctioiii 


DIFFUSED    p-n   JUNCTION    SILICON   RECTIFIERS  683 

silicon  rectifiers.  It  is  possible  to  use  these  devices  in  parallel  if  oni'  ad- 
justs the  lead  resistances  such  that  no  one  unit  will  be  allowed  to  con- 
duct much  more  than  its  share  of  the  current. 

7.5  As  a  conclusion  to  this  section,  it  should  be  noted  that  these  rec- 
tifiers are  expected  to  have  a  long  life  when  operated  within  their  rat- 
ings. They  are  able  to  operate  for  short  periods  of  time  (seconds)  at  five 
times  their  rated  currents.  Since  the  rectifiers  have  an  extremely  small 
series  resistance,  they  should  be  protected  against  accidental  surges 
and  turning  on  to  a  capacitance  input  filter. 

8.0   SUMMARY 

8.1  The  development  rectifiers  described  in  the  article  are  silicon 
diffused  p-n  junction  rectifiers.  These  devices  together  with  associated 
cooling  fins  can  be  used  to  rectify  a  complete  range  of  currents  from  0 
to  50  amperes  in  a  single  phase,  half  wave  rectifier  circuit.  They  can  be 
used  in  more  complex  rectification  circuits  to  yield  even  more  dc  cur- 
rent. Also,  they  are  able  to  withstand  at  least  200  volts  peak  in  the  in- 
verse direction  and  operate  satisfactorily  at  temperatures  as  high  as 
200°C.  Furthermore,  one  process  of  diffusion  and  plating  is  sufficient 
for  all  the  devices  of  the  class.  This  makes  it  possible  for  one  diffusion 
and  plating  line  to  feed  material  for  all  the  rectifiers  in  a  manufacturing 
operation. 

8.2  The  rectifiers  discussed  behave  according  to  the  theory  of  semi- 
conductor devices  which  makes  it  possible  to  design  them  for  given 
electrical,  thermal,  and  mechanical  characteristics.  One  failure  to  meet 
ideal  theory  of  a  p-n  junction  is  with  the  forward  characteristic. 

8.3  The  diffused  silicon  type  of  rectifier  has  been  compared  with 
germanium  and  selenium  units  and  has  better  reverse  characteristics 
at  all  temperatures.  In  the  forward  direction,  the  germanium  units  have 
a  smaller  voltage  drop  for  any  given  current  than  the  silicon  rectifiers 
but  the  silicon  devices  are  capable  of  operating  at  much  higher  tem- 
peratures, thereby  permitting  higher  overall  current  densities  than  the 
germanium  devices. 

8.4  The  diffused  silicon  rectifiers  are  capable  of  use  in  any  rectifier 
application  where  dc  currents  up  to  the  order  of  100  amperes  are  re- 
fjuired  and  where  inverse  peak  voltages  up  to  200  volts  are  encountered. 
Another  imoortant  use  for  these  devices  will  be  in  the  magnetic  ampli- 
fier application  where  the  low  reverse  currents  of  silicon  will  enable 
large  amplification  factors  to  be  realized.  Since  the  forward  character- 
istics of  these  devices  are  so  uniform,  they  can  be  used  in  voltage  ref- 
erence circuits  that  require  voltages  near  0.6  volts  and  in  circuits  uti- 


684  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

lizing  the  exponential  character  of  the  forward  characteristic.  However, 
as  is  to  be  expected  from  devices  with  the  characteristics  described  in 
this  paper,  the  most  immediate  apphcation  will  be  found  in  power  sup- 
plies. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

It  is  obvious  that  the  work  reported  in  this  paper  is  not  the  result 
of  one  man's  labor.  Much  of  the  stimulus  and  many  of  the  ideas  are 
those  of  K.  D.  Smith.  Other  members  of  the  Semiconductor  Device 
Department  who  have  contributed  considerably  to  the  development  of 
these  devices  are  R.  L.  Johnston,  R.  Ruhson,  and  R.  C.  Swenson.  D.  A. 
Kleinman,  J.  L.  Moll  and  I.  M.  Ross  have  been  most  helpful  in  dis- 
cussing the  theoretical  aspects  of  these  devices.  The  author  wishes  to 
thank  H.  R.  Moore  for  his  suggestions  on  protecting  the  silicon  rectifiers 
against  large  overloads. 


The  Forward  Characteristic  of  the  PIN 

Diode 

By  D.  A.  KLEINMAN 

(Manuscript  received  January  18,  1956) 

A  theory  is  given  for  the  forward  current-voltage  characteristic  of  the  PIN 
diffused  junction  silicon  diode.  The  theory  predicts  that  the  device  should 
obey  a  simple  PN  diode  characteristic  until  the  current  density  approaches 
200  amp /cm?.  At  higher  currents  an  additional  potential  drop  occurs  across 
the  middle  region  proportional  to  the  square  root  of  the  current.  A  moderate 
'  amount  of  recomhiriation  in  the  middle  region  has  little  effect  on  the  charac- 
teristic. It  is  shown  that  the  middle  region  cannot  lead  to  anomalous  char- 
acteristics at  low  currents. 
t 

INTRODUCTION 

In  some  diode  applications  it  is  desirable  to  have  a  very  low  ohmic  re- 
sistance as  well  as  a  high  reverse  breakdown  voltage.  A  device  meeting 
these  requirements,  in  which  the  resistance  is  low  because  of  heavily 
doped  P"^  and  A^"^  contacts  and  the  breakdown  \'oltage  is  high  because 
of  a  lightly  doped  layer  between  the  contacts,  has  been  described  by 
M.  B.  Prince.  The  device  is  shown  schematically  in  Figure  la  and  con- 
sists of  three  regions,  the  P^  contact,  the  middle  P  layer,  and  the  A'"'' 
contact.  The  device  is  called  a  PIN  diode  because  the  density  P  of  un- 
compensated acceptors  in  the  middle  region  is  much  less  than  P"*"  or  iV"*" 
and  in  normal  forward  operation  much  less  than  the  injected  carrier 
density.^ 

We  shall  let  the  edge  of  the  P^P  junction  in  the  middle  region  be 
oj  =  0,  and  the  edge  of  the  PN^  junction  in  the  middle  region  be  x  =  w. 
Thus  the  region  0  ^  .r  ^  w  is  space  charge  neutral  and  bounded  at  each 
end  by  space  charge  regions  whose  width  is  of  the  order  of  the  Debye 
length 

1  Prince,  M.  R.,  Diffused  p-?i  .Junction  Silicon  Rectifiers,  B.S.T.,J.,  page  661 
of  this  issue. 

^  A  device  witli  similar  geometry  has  been  discussed  by  R.  N.  Hall,  Proc. 
I.R.r:.,  40,  p.  1512,  1952. 

685 


G8G 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


(K/^eP) 


1/2 


l.o  X  10"   cm. 


(1) 


where  A'  is  tlie  dielectric  constant,  c  is  the  electronic  charge,  and  )3  is  the 
constant 


^  =  e/kT  =  n„/D,,  =  fxp/Di 


(2) 


which  at  room  temperature  is  38.7  \'olt~\  We  shall  denote  points  in  the 
P  and  A''  contacts  on  the  edges  of  the  space  charge  regions  by  oo  and 
WW  respectively.  Thus  Uoo  is  the  electron  density  in  the  P^  contact  at  the 
junction,  and  Ho  is  the  electron  density  at  the  same  junction  in  the 
middle  region.  Similarly  p„.,„  is  the  hole  density  at  the  junction  in  the 
A^  contact  and  pu,  is  the  hole  density  at  the  junction  in  the  middle  region. 
We  shall  denote  equilibrium  carrier  densities  in  the  three  regions  by 
np+  ,  7ip  ,  Pp  ,  Pn+  .  Typical  values  for  the  parameters   characterizing 


N" 


(a) 


w 


X- 


> 


-V, 


oo/ 1 


WW 


V= 


1=0 


(b) 


WW 

Vj 

f 

X 

f 

Vw+Vp 

/ 

> 

— — ~-____________^^ 

/ 

V-Vi 

00/     1 

"               ^ 

v„ 

! 

(Cj 


w 


V\^.  1  — SchcuKitic  represent  al  ion  ol'  (lie  IMX  (li(Ki(!  with  tli(>  1'+  and  N+  con- 
tacts regarded  as  extending  to  infinity.  (1))  .shows  the;  tdect  rostatic  potential  in 
equilibrium  and  (c)  show.s  the  potential  when  a  forward  current  Hows. 


THE    FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE    FIX    DIODE  687 

the  device  are 

W'^2  X  10"^  cm 

P  --  10''  cm"' 

(3) 
Ar+  p+  ^  10^'  cm"' 

L„  ,  Lj,  ^  10"^  cm 

where  L„  ,  Lp  are  minority  carrier  diffusion  lengths  in  the  contacts. 

The  present  treatment  makes  three  distinct  approximations.  The  first 

is  to  neglect  the  voltage  drop  in  the  contacts.  The  highest  currents  ordi- 

I  narily  used  are  of  the  order  of  500  amp/cm"  which  should  produce  an 

ohmic  drop  in  the  contacts  of  about  1  volt/cm.  Since  the  entire  diode  has 

a  length  of  about  0.01  cm  we  are  neglecting  only  about  0.01  ^'olts  in  this 

I  approximation. 

The  second  approximation  is  to  regard  the  Debye  length  as  small 
compared  to  w  and  the  diffusion  lengths  L„  ,  Lp  .  li  L„  ,  Lp  are  as  small 
as  the  typical  values  given  in  (3)  the  error  made  in  this  approximation 
is  not  completely  negligible.  Nevertheless,  we  use  the  approximation  be- 
cause it  enables  us  to  regard  the  device  as  three  relatively  large  neutral 
regions  and  two  relatively  narrow  space  charge  regions.  The  behavior  of 
the  device  can  then  be  determined  by  solving  for  the  diffusion  and  drift 
of  carriers  in  the  neutral  regions  subject  to  boundary  conditions  con- 
necting the  carrier  densities  across  the  space  charge  layers. 

The  third  approximation  is  to  neglect  any  increase  in  majority  carrier 
density  in  the  contacts  due  to  injection  of  minority  carriers.  This  approxi- 
mation is  valid  until  the  current  density  approaches  5  X  10  amp/cm", 
which  is  well  above  anticipated  operating  currents.  It  is  conceivable 
that  in  some  junctions  all  the  current  may  flow  through  small  active 
spots  at  which  the  current  density  is  ^'ery  high,  perhaps  exceeding  the 
above  figure.  In  such  cases  the  current  flow  is  two  or  three  dimensional 
and  the  present  analysis  would  not  apply. 

It  is  also  necessary  to  assume  some  law  for  carrier  recombination.  We 
shall  assume  that  recombination  in  the  contacts  is  linear  in  the  injected 
minority  carrier  density 

din  ■     n  —  np+ 


rKJ 


ax  T 

Modification  of  the  theory  to  suit  other  recombination  laws  is  simple  in 
principle,  although  considerable  analytical  complications  might  be  en- 
countered. It  seems  most  likely  that  in  silicon  FN  junctions  the  re- 
combination actuallv  is  nonlinear.  It  can  be  shown  that  if  the  rccombi- 


688  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

nation  follows  some  power  v  of  the  injected  density 

the  forward  characteristic  of  a  simple  PN  junction  is  of  the  form 

exp  W^^iv  +  1)F]  (6) 

Thus  nonlinear  recombination  can  account  for  the  observation  that  in 
silicon  diodes  the  slope  of  V  versus  log  /  is  usually  much  less  than  /3. 
Our  purpose  here  is  not  to  study  this  interesting  effect,  but  to  study  those 
effects  which  are  due  to  the  presence  of  the  middle  region.  Therefore,  we 
assume  linear  recombination  for  the  sake  of  simplicity.  In  the  last  sec- 
tion we  give  a  brief  consideration  of  what  to  expect  in  the  case  of  non- 
linear recombination  in  the  contacts.  Recombination  in  the  middle 
region  will  also  be  assumed  to  be  linear  in  the  injected  carrier  density, 
but  this  assumption  is  not  critical,  since  it  turns  out  that  a  moderate 
amount  of  recombination  in  the  middle  region  does  not  change  the  quali- 
tative behavior  of  the  device. 

BASIC    EQUATIONS 

Fig.  1(b)  shows  the  electrostatic  potential  V{x)  for  the  equilibrium 
case  7  =  0.  The  potential  is  constant  except  in  the  space  charge  layers. 
If  w^e  call  the  potential  of  the  middle  region  zero,  the  P^  and  N^  contacts 
are  at  the  potentials  —  Vi  and  Vi  respectively,  where 

/3Fi  -  In  (P^/pp) 

(7) 
^F2  =  {n  (N^/np) 


Figure  Ic  shows  the  potential  when  a  forward  current  I  flows  and  a 
forward  bias  F  is  produced  across  the  device.  We  shall  define  the  poten- 
tial so  that  the  A^"^  contact  remains  at  V2 ,  which  puts  the  P"^  contact  at 
potential  F  —  Fi  .  The  potential  at  a  point  x  is  then  given  by 

V{x)  =  V2-   r  E{x)  dx  (8) 

"WW 

where  E{x)  is  the  electric  field  assumed  zero  in  the  contact  regions  x  > 
WW  and  x  <  00.  The  applied  bias  F  consists  of  three  terms 

F  =  Vo  +  Vp  +  F,„  (9) 

'  This  potential  distribution  has  been  discussed  b^y  A.  Herlet  and  E.  Sp(MiI<o, 
Zeits.  f.  Ang.  Phys.,  B7,  H3,  p.  149,  1955. 


THE   FORWARD   CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE   PIN   DIODE  689 

where  Vo  is  the  forward  bias  across  the  junction  at  x  =  0,  Vp  is  the  po- 
tential drop  in  the  middle  i-egion,  and  V^  is  the  forward  bias  across  the 
junction  at  x  =  w.  In  this  notation  F(0)  =  F,„  +  Vp  and  V(w)  =  Vy, . 
The  total  current  density  is  constant 

In{x)    +    Ij,{x)     =    I  (10) 

!  We  shall  denote  electric  current  densities  by  e/„  ,  dp  ,  so  that  In  ,  Ip  ,  I 
have  the  dimensions  of  (particles/cm  -sec) .  At  x  =  0  and  x  =  w  the 
minority  carrier  currents  must  flow  into  the  contacts  by  diffusion,  which 
gives  the  boundary  conditions 


[Pn+  j 

/n(0)    =    Ins  [^    -    l] 

[np+        J 


(11) 


where  Ips ,  Ins  are  saturation  current  densities 

J.     _  Pn  Dp  J     _  np  Dn  /     V 

^  ps  f  )  -fns    —     f {i^^J 

jLip  Lin 

The  order  of  magnitude  of  the  saturation  current  density  is  given  by 

e{Ins  +  Ips)  '^3  X  10~^   amp/cm^  in  Si 

based  on  the  typical  values  of  (3).  Equations  (11)  contain  the  assump- 
tions of  linear  recombination  and  small  injection  into  the  contacts  as 
discussed  in  the  introduction. 

In  the  middle  region  the  current  densities  satisfy 

,  j  J.et  us  assume  these  equations  remain  valid  in  the  space  charge  regions.* 
'  Since  these  space  charge  regions  are  narrow  /„  and  Ip  can  be  considered 
constant  and  the  solution  of  (13)  in  the  space  charge  regions  is 


^  Up        JlOW  J 

nix)  =  /^^^>  L^e-'^'-'^'  -{-  ^   I 

U„      Jo 


X 


(14) 


Dn        JOO  I 


Shockley,  W.,  B.S.T.J.,  28,  p.  435,  1949. 


690  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Since  \/Lp  «  1  we  can  write  for  the  junction  at  x  =  id 


piw)  =  e-''-  U^y-^  -  (P-  -  y^^"")  j     e'^'dx 


w 


/?u>to6 


p  "WW 


(15)1 


I 


floo 

= 

Tioiup  /np)e 

Vo 

= 

V.  e^'» 

Wu, 

^ 

np  e'""- 

where  0(X/Lp)  means  a  term  of  order  X/Lp  .  Thus  we  see  that  if  we  may: 
neglect  X/Lp  and  X/L„  we  have  the  following  simple  boundary  conditions 
at  the  junctions 

(16). 


It  is  clear  that  in  order  to  divide  the  device  into  three  neutral  regions  we 
must  also  be  able  to  neglect  \/w. 

Finally,  we  have  the  condition  of  space  charge  neutrality 

p  -  n  =  P  (17) 

It  can  be  shown  that  the  term  K~   dE/dx  is  of  order  (A/L)"  or  (X/w)  | 
and  therefore  negligible  in  our  approximation.  Therefore   (17)  is  the 
Poisson  equation  for  the  middle  region  in  our  approximation.  When  we  > 
use  (17)  we  are  not  saying  that  E{x)  is  constant  but  only  that  K~  dE/dx 
is  negligible  compared  to  p(x)  and  7i(x).  The  basic  eciuations  then  are 
(10),  (11),  (13),  (16),  (17). 

Large  Injection,  No  Recomhinalion 

In  this  section  we  consider  current  densities  of  the  order  of  magnitude 
of  those  that  flow  in  normal  operation  of  the  diode  as  a  power  rectifier. 
These  currents  inject  large  densities  of  electrons  and  holes  into  the 
middle  region  greatly  increasing  its  conductivity.  The  result  is  that  the 
\'oltage  drop  Vp  is  small  even  though  the  normal  resistivity  of  the  middle 
region  is  high.  For  this  reason  the  device  has  been  called  a  conductivit}' 
modulated  rectifier.  Also  in  this  section  we  shall  neglect  recombination 
in  the  middle  region,  which  makes  In{x)  and  Ip{x)  constant  and  greatly 
simplifies  the  analysis.  The  effect  of  recombination  is  to  remove  carrieis 
and  increase  the  drop  across  the  middle  region.  Therefore,  it  is  desirable 
to  keep  recombination  in  the  middle  region  as  low  as  possible. 


THE    FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE    PIN   DIODE  691 


0Vo 

n.y  =  ppe 

Equations  (13)  can  be  written 

/.  -f-  6/, 

dn        In  —  bl-o 


dx  2Dn 

where  b  =  Dn/Dp  .  Combining  (19)  and  (21)  gives  the  equations 

Ho    =    niHn/Insf"" 
Tin,    =    7li(Ip/IpsY'' 

where  nf  =  rippp  is  a  constant,  and  also 

/3Fo  =  Vz  (n  -^  ^ 

Pp   ^ns 

Up     Ips 


(18) 


Under  conditions  of  large  injection  we  can  say 

n»  P,  p»  P 

rioo  »  np  Pww  »  Pn 

so  that  (11)  becomes 

In  =  Insirioo/np'^) 

^p    —    J^  psKPww/pN    ) 

and  (17)  becomes 

n{x)  =  p{x)         0  ^  X  ^  w  (20) 

Equation  (16)  becomes 

7ioo  =  Uo^np  /np)e 


(19) 


(21) 


(22) 


(23) 


(24) 


I'^rom  the  first  equation  (22)  we  have 

SY,  =  k+J^  f  A^  (25) 

2Dn       .'o     nix) 


692  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Upon  invoking  the  second  equation  of  (22)  we  get 

fiVp  =  i"  "^  f  ^^  /n  —  (26) 

In    —    Olp  Ho 

and 

n^=^no+  ^"  ~  ^^^  w;.  (27) 

We  see  that  Vp  is  always  positive  in  sign  whatever  the  sign  of  /„  —  hip  . 
We  now  define  a  parameter 

(28) 


7  =  rio/ny, 

and  a  device  constant 

li    =    J-ns/J-ps 

Then  from  (23)  and  (10) 

h/Ip  =  i^T' 

"        1  +  i^T^ 

1      _/ 
1  +  Ry^ 

(29) 


(30) 


Combining  (23),  (27)  and  (30)  gives  the  equation  for  7  as  a  function  of 
total  current 


7=1- 


In    —    bip    W 


2Dn         Un 

_   n  (7/7 j^  - 1  ^^^^ 

y   /o  VI  +  &(7/7»)^ 
where 

7co'  =  &/i2  (32) 

and  /o  is  a  unit  of  (particle)  current  density  characteristic  of  the  device 

Z.  =  i^^  =  4  m  ^  (33) 

A  typical  value  for  e  /o  in  a  silicon  diode  is 

e  /o  '-^  200  amp/cm"  (3-1'^ 

based  on  (3). 


i 


THE   FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE   PIN   DIODE  693 

From  (26)  the  potential  drop  in  the  middle  region  can  be  written 

(35) 


0Vp 

= 

y     2-^n7 
'00 

From 

(24)  and  (30) 

KVo  +  7.) 

=  tn 

-\-(n- 

T 

+  ^n 

h 

+  Hy/yJ' 

J-ps 

(36) 

Thus  the  total  applied  bias  y  as  a  function  of  total  current  density  /  is 
given  by 

/5F  =  (iij   -  V^  ^^  ^  +  ^^    1    ,    J  /     v>    +  ^^^  T-     (^^) 
/o         7^  -  Too  1  +  0(7/7 J-  Ips 

where  y{I)  is  the  (positive)  solution  of  (31). 

Thus  far  we  have  referred  the  problem  of  the  V  —  I  characteristic  to 
the  problem  of  calculating  7(7)  from  (31).  We  see  that  in  the  limits  of 
high  and  low  current  7  approaches  the  limits 

7  ->  1  /  «  /o 

(38) 

7  — ^  7oo  i   »  io 

and  in  general  lies  between  these  limits.  A  good  approximate  solution  is 
readily  obtained  by  replacing  (31)  with  the  cjuadratic  equation 

7=1-  4(7/700)'  -  1] 

z  =  {i/ur  (1  +  hr" 


which  has  the  solution 

V7co'  +  4(1  +  z)zyJ  -  7. 


7  = 


2z 


(40) 


A  plot  of  this  solution  is  shoAvn  in  Fig.  2  as  a  function  of  z  for  7oo  =  x^"^, 
7oo  =  2.  Since  7(7)  is  bounded  by  unity  and  700 ,  which  usually  will  be  of 
order  unity,  we  can  reject  some  of  the  dependence  of  V  upon  7  and  re- 
tain only  its  essential  dependence  upon  7.  This  appears  in  the  first  and 
second  terms  of  (37).  By  means  of  (31)  this  second  term  can  be  written 


/n7        (7/7.)^  +  1 


^^'        [7  -  1  \/l  +  6(7/7jd  T    h 


7 


(41) 


Retaining  only  the  essential  dependence  on  7  we  write  this  equation 

i87p  =  C(7/7„)^^'  (42) 


694  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

2.0 


0.5 


lo   Vi+  b 
Fig.  2  —  The  function  7(2)  given  by  equation  (40)  for  two  choices  of  7^, . 

45 
40 
35 


/3V 


30 


25 


20 


Sl     ^^ 


0.01        0.02      0.04  0.06    0.1  0.2         0.4  0.6  0.8  1 

I/Io 


4      6    8  10  20         40  60      100 


Fig.  3  —  The  voltage-current    cliaracteristic  of  the  PIN  diode  accortling  to 
equation  (44).  The  dashed  line  represents  an  ideal  PN  diode  and  c/q  '^  200  amp/ 


THE   FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE   PIN   DIODE  095 

where  C  is  a  constant  representing  the  slowly  varying  coefficient  of 
'  7„)  "  in  (41).  We  choose  C  snch  that  (42)  becomes  exact  at  high  cur- 
I   _nt  density  when  ^Vp  is  large 

C  =  -^^      S-  (43) 

7^  -  1  V&  +  1 

When  we  regard  the  third  and  fom-th  tei-nis  of  (37)  together  as  a  constant 
jSFc  Ave  obtain  the  simplified  voltage-current  characteristic 

/3F  =  fn  ^  +  C  j/^  +  0Vo  (44) 


0 


In  this  approximation  it  is  unnecessary  to  evaluate  7(7)  from  (31). 

Fig.  3  shows  plots  of  jSV  versus  I/Io  calculated  from  (44).  For  plotting 
the  curves  the  \'alue  ('  =1.1  was  used.  To  choose  a  value  for  13V c  we  put 
7=1,  which  gives 

1  +  fc(7/7oo)-  1  +  i^ 

so  that 

^Vc  -^  HIo/(Ins    +    Ips)]  (4G) 

which  has  the  value  27  in  silicon  according  to  the  values  in  (3).  The  dot- 
ted line  is  the  asymptote  approached  by  the  curve  at  low  current  densities 

0V  -^  (n         ■[  I  «  h  (47) 

This  is  the  characteristic  of  a  simple  PA''  junction  Avhen 

;Ve  retain  now  to  the  cjuestion  of  when  the  large  injection  conditions 
(18)  are  satisfied.  Let  us  suppose  7  is  much  less  than  7o  so  that  7  '^  1, 
7„/7;,  ^  R.  It  follows  from  (30)  and  (23)  that 

rio  ^  n,,  ^  ni[I/(Ins  +  Ips)f'~  (48) 

Now  let  us  set  /?„  »  P  Avhich  gives  a  condition  on  the  current  density 

I  »  (P/mY  (L,s  ^  Ips).  (49) 

Setting  /;„„  »  Hp'^,  Pu-w  »  Vn'^  gives 

7  »  7,„  +  Ip,  .  (50) 

Usually  P  »  7ii  so  that  (49)  includes  (50).  When  numbers  are  put  in 


696  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

from  (3)  we  get  the  condition  for  large  injection 

el  »  0.07  amp/cm^  in  Si  (51) 

Since  tliis  current  in  (51)  is  much  less  than  do ,  we  may  quite  properly 
speak  of  large  injection  n^  P  and  small  currents  /  «  !„  at  the  same 
time. 

Let  us  denote  by 

ICM   =    iP/Uif  (Ins  +   Ips)  (52) 

the  current  density  at  which  conductivity  modulation  starts  to  be  im- 
portant. Then  we  may  distinguish  three  ranges  of  current:  (a)  very  small 
current  /  <  I  cm  for  which  large  injection  analysis  does  not  apply;  (b) 
low  current  I  cm  <  I  <  h  for  which  large  injection  analysis  applies,  but 
the  voltage  drop  Vp  in  the  middle  region  is  negligible;  (c)  large  current 
I  >  lo  for  which  Vp  is  sizable.  The  treatment  of  this  section  has  covered 
ranges  (b)  and  (c) .  Range  (c)  (as  treated  here)  does  not  extend  to  infinity 
but  only  up  to  current  densities  of  the  order 


L 


8  X  10*  amp/cm'^ 


p 


so  that  the  diffusion  currents  in  the  contacts  may  be  treated  as  a  small 
injection. 

Small  Injection,  No  Recomhinaiion 

In  this  section,  we  shall  cover  ranges  (a)  and  (b)  in  current  density. 
We  must  go  back  to  the  basic  equations,  but  we  shall  make  use  of  two 
facts  that  have  come  out  of  the  large  injection  analysis:  (a)  jSFp  is  negli- 
gible when  /  «  /o  ;  (b)  7  =  no/n^  ^  1  which  means  n(x)  and  p(x)  are 
essentially  constant  in  the  middle  region  0  ^  x  ^  w  when  I  <^  lo . 
When  we  set 


no  =  n^o,        Po  =  Pw  (53) 


equations  (16)  give  us 


noo  =  npV^^"^""^  (54) 


Pww    —    Pn    ^ 


Then  (11)  gives 

I  =  I„^  I^=  (/„,  +  /,,)  [/^'^o+^-Li]  (55) 

Now  Vo  +  Vw  is  the  total  applied  bias  when  Vp  can  be  neglected ;  there- 


THE   FOKWAKD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE    PIN   DIODE  697 

fore  we  obtain  the  characteristic 

PV  =  ^n  (        \_        +  l)  (56) 

which  is  vaHd  until  7  approaches  lo .  Of  course  we  would  not  have  ob- 
tained this  ideal  characteristic  of  a  simple  PN  junction  had  w^e  taken 
recombination  into  account;  our  result  depends  upon  the  constancy  of 
n(x)  and  pix)  in  the  middle  region.  For  the  case  of  no  recombination  in 
the  middle  region  (56)  and  (44)  cover  ranges  (a),  (b)  and  (c).  Instead  of 
(44)  the  more  exact  expression  (37)  could  be  used  requiring  the  evalu- 
ation of  y{I)  from  (31).  It  seems  that  the  extra  refinement  is  of  no  help 
in  understanding  the  device  and  unnecessary  in  treating  experimental 
data.  Therefore,  we  shall  adopt  (44)  and  the  approximations  leading  to 
it  as  a  model  for  treating  the  more  complicated  recombination  case. 
That  is,  we  shall  seek  a  generalization  of  (44)  which  takes  recombination 
into  account  in  a  sufficiently  good  approximation. 

Large  Injection  with  Recombination 

We  are  interested  in  determining  the  effect  of  recombination  in  the 
middle  region  upon  the  operating  characteristics  of  the  device.  Therefore 
we  go  immediately  to  the  large  injection  case  n  =  p.  Equation  (16)  be- 
come 

ny,  =  npe^^""        p^w  =  n„,(pivVpp)e^^"' 

(57) 
no  =  ppe^^'^        noo  =  no(np'^/np)e^^° 

t  which  gives 
/3(Fo  +  F„)  =  (nin^nolnl)  (58) 

We  shall  assume  that  recombination  is  linear  in  the  injected  carrier 
density  to  simplify  the  calculation.  It  will  be  possible,  later  to  approxi- 
mate bimolecular  recombination  by  using  an  appropriate  value  for  the 
lifetime  r  corresponding  to  the  injected  carrier  density.  Therefore  we 
write 

O'i-n   ui p   n  (rj(S\ 

dx  dx        T 


Eliminating  In{x)  by  use  of  (13)  gives  the  equation  for  n(x) 

(60) 


dn        n 


dx^        L 


% 


698 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


where  L  is  the  effective  diffusion  length  in  the  middle  region 

L  =  [2Dn  r/ib  +  1)]^'=^  (61) 

The  solution  of  (60)  may  be  written 

no  sinh  (w  —  z)  +  w„,  sinh  z 


n{z) 


sinh 


CO 


(62) 


where  z  =  x/L  is  the  position  variable  and  w  =  w/L  is  the  length  of  the 
middle  region  in  units  of  L.  Fig.  4  shows  several  of  these  solutions  for  the 

In  equation  (60)  and  the  solution  (62)  we  have  neglected  the  equi- 
librium carrier  densities  Up  ,  pp  .  The  criterion  for  the  validity  of  this 
approximation  is 

sinh  Hco  «  (rio/P),  inJP)  (63) 


X/w 


Fig.  4  —  Tlie  carrier  (l(Misi(y  accordiiii;-  (o  ('(|ua1i(>n  (iS'l)  for  the  case  7?u 
and  several  values  of  co. 


=  n.u 


THE   FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE   PIN   DIODE  699 

arrived  at  by  considering  the  minima  in  the  sokitions  for  co  »  1.  This  is 
really  a  criterion  for  conductivity  modulation,  so  we  shall  assume  hence- 
forth that  it  is  satisfied. 

We  now  modifv  (13)  by  setting  n  =  p  and  eliminating  E{x)  by  use  of 
(22) 

,  .  .        67  +  2Dnn{x) 

^-^'^  =  — mh — 

J  ,  .        I  —  2Dnn  (aO 

where  n'(x)  =  dn/dx.  Inserting  these  currents  into  (22)  gives  E{x)  and 
integrating  gives  the  potential  drop  Vp  in  the  middle  region 

(6  +  1)D„  Jo     n         6+1        no 

This  is  the  generalization  of  (26)  for  linear  recombination. 

The  direct  evaluation  of  (58)  and  (65)  in  terms  of  the  total  current  / 
leads  to  a  very  complicated  expression  for  the  applied  voltage.  It  will  be 
jshown  in  the  next  section  that  this  result  reduces  in  its  simplest  approxi- 
mate form  retaining  only  the  essential  dependence  on  w  to  the  formula 

I  Jn.9    +   ips  V      io(<^) 

iwhich  is  identical  with  (44)  except  that  the  characteristic  current  density 
lis  a  function  of  oj 

7(co)  =  /o^(w) 

(67) 


g{o:>)  = 


cosh  -  tan  ^  f  sinh  — 


1  _^'  +  -  - 
6  ^  48 


(Fig.  5  shows  a  plot  of  ^(co).  These  results  show  that  if  co  <  1  as  we  might 
lexpect  in  a  good  diode  recombination  has  no  significant  effect  on  the 
jforward  voltage-current  characteristic  in  the  conductivity  modulation 
range  of  operation. 


700 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    195G 


3 


l.U 

^^ 

^ 

0.8 

\ 

N. 

> 

\ 

s 

0.6 

\ 

s. 

N 

\ 

0.4 

\ 

N^ 

N 

\ 

0.2 

0 

0.5 


1.0 


1.5 


2.0 


2.5 


3.0 


Fig.  5  —  The  function  (j(co)  of  equation  (67). 


Analysis 
We  denote 


r  = 


no 
rii 


From  (11)  and  (67) 


/p(co)    =    Ips^  ,  ln(0)    =    Ins^ 


(68) 


(69) 


By  means  of  (62)  and  (64)  Ave  eliminate  /„  and  Ip  and  obtain  the  equa- 
tions 


(b  +  l)Ipsf  =  /  -  Ir{^  cosh  ic  -  t) 
(b  +  l)RIpsf  =  hi  +  Iri^  -  r  cosh  co) 
where  Ir  is  a  (particle)  current  density 

2Dnni 


Ir   = 


L  sinh  CO 


(70) 


(71) 


In  principle  we  could  solve  (70)  for  ^  and  f  as  functions  of  I  with  R  and 
oj  as  parameters;  this  would  determine  ^V  through  (58)  and  (65)  and 
complete  the  problem.  First  we  shall  rewrite  these  equations  in  terms 
of  7  as  in  the  analysis  of  the  second  section. 


THE    FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF    THE    PIN   DIODE 


701 


If  we  eliminate  /  from  equations  (24)  we  get 

J        .     Ir  h  cosh  O)  +    1  nr       2 

olps  +  J r+l "         ''^ 


+  7 
which  can  be  solved  for  ^ 


Ir  cosh  CO  +   6 

1        b  +  1 


(72) 


y  _     Ir   cosh  CO  +  ^    To  —  7 
^  ~  7;:.       6  +  1        /?7-  -  ^ 


where 


pi' 


70  = 


6  cosh  cj  +  1 


cosh  CO  +  5 
Substituting  (73)  into  (70)  gives  the  equation  satisfied  by  y 

Ry'  cosh  CO  +  1\  ,  ^  /    [(7/700)'  -  1]' 

7 r>    o     , — T )    (7    -    70)    =     7 


Ry"^  +  cosh  CO  /  "         ' "'         /oo  ^7^  +  cosh  co 
■where  loo  is  a  characteristic  (particle)  current  density 


(73) 


(74) 


(75) 


J^  00    —    -'  o 


CO 


sinh 


CO 


cosh  u  -\-  h 
h  +  1 


(76) 


Now  the  solution  of  (75)  has  two  branches  which  as  /  -^  0  approach 
N'alues  given  by 


a) 
b) 


7  -^  70 

Ry"  cosh  CO  +  1 
Ry-  +  cosh  CO 


(77) 


As  I  increases  the  first  branch  remains  positive  and  approaches  700  as 
/  — >  00 .  The  second  branch  becomes  negative  and  approaches  —700  . 
Therefore,  we  choose  that  branch  which  satisfies 


7(0)  =  70  = 


b  cosh  CO  +  1 


6+  1 

y(cc)    =y^=    {h/Rf" 

7  >  0 


(78) 


( )n  this  Ijranch  7  always  lies  between  70  and  y^  ,  and  7  never  approaches 
the  quantity  in  (77b).  Therefore  we  replace  Ry   by  b  (as  if  7  =  700)  in 


II 


702 


THE    HELL    SV8TEM    TECHNICAL   JOUKXAL,    MAY    195G 


the  first  factor  on  th(>  h  ft  of  (7")),  and  obtain  the  siniplei-  form 


7   -   7(1 


/oo  y/Ry-  +  cosh 


CO 


(79) 


which  is  the  generalization  of  (31). 

The  drop  ^Vp  in  the  middle  region  given  by  (()o)  can  be  written 

^^^  =  r^  ^^  ^  +  J-^Tx  yj;^  V/^y  +  cosh  0,  FM      (80) 

AN'here  Fc^ii)  comes  from   /  dx/  n  and  is  defined 

p  (  \  _    f  Mill 

Jo    7  siiih  fw(l  —  u)]  +  sinh  [ww] 


In 


7  snm  [(jo(] 

1  +  Q 
1  +  Q 


(n 


1  +  e"Q 
1  -  e^Q 


(81) 


or 


2 


\/l  —  27  cosh  CO  +  7- 

tan~'  e"Q  —  tan~^  Q 
\/27  cosh  CO  —  1  —  7- 


The  first  form  applies  when  7  >  r",  or  7  <  c~",  and  the  second  applies 
when  e""  <  7  <  <»",  and  Q  is  the  (luantity 


Q  = 


1  —  ye' 


■\/\  1  —  27  cosh  CO  +  7^ 
It  can  readily  b(>  shown  that  when  co  -^  0 

In  7 


/'^o(7)   = 
Thus  when  co  =  0  (80)  reduces  to 


7  -  1 


(82) 


(83) 


/3T> 


Ch  7    />  —   1 


r,  (7  -  1)  + 


7-16  +  2 
(n  7    (7/700)'  -  1 


6+  1 


-^  \//?7-  +  1 


l/i 


(84) 


.7-1     Ry-  -{-  I 

which  is  identical  with  (il).  It  is  also  clear  that  (7!J)  reduces  to  (31)  as 
the  recombination  goes  to  zc  ro.  f'inally  we  write  from  (58) 

^(Fo  +   V„.)   =   tn  yt  =   (n  /-  +  (n  ^  .,    /       .  (85) 

1  p,  Ry-  +  cosh  CO 


THE   FORWARD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE   PIN   DIODE 


703 


2.6 


2.0 


K  1.5 

3 

LL 

1.0 


0.5 


s. 

^ 

\   v\ 

\\ 

s\^^ 

\ 

V^ 

'^ 

V 

X 

^ 

N 

X 

h 

^ 

"^ 

'v 

>^ 

^<^ 

^ 

^*-^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0.1 


0.2  0.3       0.4  0.5  0.6       0.8     1.0 


4        5     6  8      10 


Fig.  6  —  The  function  F„{y)  of  equation  (81)  for  several  values  of  co. 

which  reduces  to  (3G)  when  co  =  0.  Thus  the  whole  theory  reduces  cor- 
rectly in  the  case  w  =  0. 

The  function  F„(t)  is  plotted  in  Fig.  6  for  several  values  of  w  including 
05  =  0.  The  expansion  of  F^{y)  to  order  co"  is 

FM = -^  -  ifM 

7—1        4 


(t  +  1)   -  27 


/(t)  = 


(n  7 


(86) 


(7  -  1)-^ 


1 


=  1  -  27  fn  -  +  •  •  • 

7 

i 

Our  next  step  is  to  eliminate  from  (80)  and  (85)  unimportant  depen- 
i  dencies  on  I  which  would  be  difficult  or  impossible  to  detect  experi- 
I  mentally.  If  in  (85)  we  let  7  =  1,  cosh  co  =  1  we  get 


^(Fo  +  F,„)  =  tn 


(87) 


In  (80)  we  drop  the  first  term  (as  if  7  =  1)  and  in  the  second  term  we 


704  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

put  By^  =  6  (as  if  7  =  7„)  and  FM  =  PM, 


2 


1  ^i  ^^ 


/3Fp  =  ^-pp  4/  J-  V6  +  cosh  CO  FM  (88) 

In  this  way  we  retain  the  correct  form  of  dependence  on  w,  but  throw 
out  the  dependence  on  /  that  comes  from  7(/).  It  can  be  shown  from| 
(81)  that 


tan  ^  f  sinh  - 


sinh  ~  (89) 


2  4 

CO  CO 

=  1  -  —  +  — -  + 

12  ^  180  ^ 


Thus  we  define  the  characteristic  (particle)  current  density  of  the  device 

/o(co)    = 


{b  +  l)7oo 


(b  +  cosh  co)F„(l)2 

(90) 


and  (88)  can  be  written 


n2 

CO 


_F^(1)  sinh  co_ 


=  /o</(w) 


2 


i4/£  ^^^H 


This  formula  corresponds  to  (42)  with  C  =  2/\/b  +  1.  In  the  spirit  I 
of  the  present  theory  the  exact  value  of  this  constant  is  not  important,  j 
so  we  may  replace  2/-\/b  +  1  in  (91)  by  C.  Then  the  sum  of  (87)  and 
(91)  gives  the  total  applied  bias  (66). 

Non  Linear  Recombination 

In  this  section  we  shall  consider  the  forward  characteristic  of  a  PIN 
diode  in  which  the  current  densities  at  the  contacts  obey  the  law 

/       \" 

J     J-      I  'ion    \ 


,n 


+ 


p 


(92) 
T    =  T    (  ^""  1 

where  /„,,  and  /,,.,  are  characteristic  of  the  device  and  a  is  a  number  be- 


THE   FORWAKD    CHARACTERISTIC    OF   THE   PIN   DIODE  705 

tween  0  and  1.  We  see  that  (30)  must  be  replaced  by 

Inllp  =  Ry" 
I  Ry'^I  (93) 

^       /  +  Ry"^  "       1  +  Ry"' 

and  (23)  must  be  replaced  by 

no  =  niiln/Intf^"  ,     ^ 

(94) 

Hu,  =  ni{Ip/Ips) 
The  equation  for  y  is  now 

-  1  _  // Y""'"'       (y/y.T  -  i  ,05) 

'^  ~  \lj  [1  +  biy/yjy^Y-'^''-'^^  ^ 

where  yj  =  (h/RY'"  and 

/i  =  hihs/ht-'""-''  (96) 

is  a  characteristic  (particle)  current  density  of  the  device.  We  now  ob- 
tain ^Vp  from  (26) 

^Vp  ^  C'{I/h)'-'""''  (97) 

where  C  is  a  slowly  varying  function 

C'  =  (t/Toc')'"  +  1  ^ny  ,ggx 

[1  +  biy/yjy^Y-'""^'  7-1 

similar  to  the  coefficient  in  brackets  in  (41).  From  (21)  and  (94)  Ave  get 

^(Fo  +  V.)  =^ln-^  (99) 

If  now  7  '^  1  we  get 


This  shows  how  we  must  choose  a  to  agree  with  the  low  current  charac- 
teristic. On  the  basis  of  experience  with  silicon  diodes  we  would  choose 
a  ^'  0.6,  which  would  give 

/SFp  -  C'(I/hf''  (101) 

riic  characteristic  current  density  would  be 

I  eh  ~  200  X  (7p,//o)"'amp/cm'  in  Si  (102) 


706  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

The  value  to  use  for  7^^  is  very  uucertain,  but  it  certainly  is  much  less 
than  /o ,  so  I\  »  h  •  Thus  we  would  not  expect  to  observe  ^Vp  ,  and  the 
characteristic  should  have  the  form 

I'^he"^  (103) 

up  to  the  highest  attainable  currents. 

We  have  shown  in  this  section  how  the  law  of  recombination  in  the 
contacts  affects  the  dependence  of  Vp  upon  /.  In  particular  if  a  =  i^ 
there  is  no  dependence  of  Vp  upon  /,  which  means  that  the  conductivitj' 
due  to  injection  increases  just  as  rapidly  as  the  current.  We  may  con- 
clude from  (97)  that  the  smaller  the  A^alue  of  a  the  more  effective  is  con- 
ducti\'ity  modulation  in  keeping  down  the  drop  Vp  in  the  middle  region. 

Discussion 

We  have  considered  the  PIN  structure  of  Fig.  1  having  typical  param- 
eters given  in  (3).  We  find  that  the  presence  of  the  middle  region  causes) 
no  significant  deviation  in  the  voltage-current  characteristic  from  that 
of  a  simple  PN  diode  until  very  high  current  densities  are  reached,  of 
the  order  of  200  amp/cm'  in  silicon.  In  particular  the  middle  region  is 
not  responsible  for  an  anomalous  slope  in  the  plot  of  V  versus  log  /.  We 
find  that  recombination  in  the  middle  region  can  be  accounted  for  by  re- 
placing the  characteristic  current  density  elo  of  the  device  with  eIog(w/L) 
where  g(w/L)  <  1  is  shown  in  Fig.  5.  Thus  qualitatively  there  is  no 
change  in  the  form  of  the  voltage-current  characteristic  due  to  recombi- 
nation in  the  middle  region,  although  the  effect  of  g(iv/L)  is  to  make  the 
voltage  drop  somewhat  higher  than  if  recombination  were  absent. 

We  have  suggested  that  the  anomalous  slope  of  V  versus  log  /  usually  I 
observed  in  silicon  diodes  might  be  due  to  non-linear  recombination.  If; 
the  recombination  obeys  a  power  law  chosen  to  give  a  typical  (anoma- 
lous) V—  I  characteristic  for  a  PN  diode,  we  have  shown  that  the  PIN 
diode  should  manifest  the  same  characteristic  up  to  extremely  lai-ge 
current  densities  many  times  elo  .  Thus  the  drop  across  the  middle  region  l 
should  be  even  more  negligible  with  non-lineai-  than  with  linear  rccom- ■ 
bination . 

I  am  pleased  to  acknowledge  my  great  benefit  from  discussions  with 
M.  B.  Prince  and  I.  M.  Ross. 


A  Laboratory  Model  Magnetic 

Drum  Translator  for  Toll 

Switching  Offices 

By  F.  G.  BUHRENDORF,  H.  A.  HENNING  and  O.  J.  MURPHY 

(Manuscript  received  January  24,  1956) 

A  lahoratory  model  magnetic  drum  translator,  capable  of  serving  as  a  one- 
to-one  alternative  to  the  card  translator,  has  been  built  to  study  the  problems 
arising  from  the  prospective  use  of  microsecond  pulse  apparatus  in  a  tele- 
phone office  environment.  Electron  tube  amplifiers  and,  germanium  diode 
logic  circuits  supplement  the  drum  information  storage  unit  to  provide  the 
functional  operations  required.  Results  of  preliminary  laboratory  tests  indi- 
cate the  feasibility  of  equipment  of  this  kind  for  telephone  switching  control. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  magnetic  drum  is  one  of  the  most  widely  used  of  the  modern  large- 
capacity  digital-data  storage  devices.  It  is  used  as  a  memory  unit  in  many 
of  the  present-day  large-scale  digital  computers  and  in  other  applica- 
tions such  as  inventory  control  of  airline  ticket  reservations  and  traffic 
control  of  airplanes  in  flight.  Two  of  the  properties  of  drums  as  storage 
media  have  been  considered  particularly  advantageous.  One  is  the  capac- 
ity to  store  up  to  several  hundred  thousand  bits  of  information  in  a  com- 
pact space  at  a  low  cost  per  bit;  the  other  is  the  ability  to  keep  the  in- 
formation in  an  easily  alterable  but  nonvolatile  form  unaffected  by  power 
failure  or  other  interruptions  of  operation.  In  terms  of  the  speed  with 
which  information  may  be  stored  or  i-(V'Overed,  drum  memories  fall  near 
the  middle  of  the  present-day  spectrum;  they  are  very  much  faster  than 
punched  paper  tape  or  groups  of  telephone  relays  but  are  considerably 
slower  than  cathode-ray  tube  or  ferromagnetic-core  storage  devices.  All 
of  the  information  stored  on  a  drum  may  be  read  out  during  the  course 
of  one  complete  revolution  and,  similarly,  new  information  may  be  en- 
tered anywhere  in  the  storage  space  within  the  time  of  one  revolution; 
tlius  the  access  time  is  ordinarily  of  the  order  of  a  few  tens  of  milliseconds. 

It  has  already  been  pointed  out^  that  automatic  telephone  switching 

707 


708  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

offices  bear  a  generic  resemblance  to  digital  computers  and  it  is  therefoi-e 
not  surprising  that  the  magnetic  drum  has  engaged  the  attention  of  tele- 
phone engineers,  since  the  speed  and  flexibility  of  such  a  device  offei-s 
much  promise  in  connection  with  forward-looking  telephone  office  de- 
sign. One  system  has  already  been  described^'  ^  involving  the  use  of  mag- 
netic drums  for  telephone  switching  control  applications  in  an  entirely 
new  form  of  telephone  office;  it  is  the  purpose  of  this  article  to  describe 
another  application  of  less  complexity  which  could  function  in  coopera- 
tion with  equipment  in  existing  telephone  offices. 

The  standards  of  reliability  and  ruggedness  which  must  be  met  by  any 
equipment  proposed  for  Bell  System  use  are  in  some  respects  a  good  deal 
higher  than  those  imposed  on  other  commercial  sytems  such  as  digital 
computers.  Thus  when  a  new  type  of  apparatus  such  as  a  magnetic  drum 
and  its  associated  electronic  components  is  considered  for  a  telephone 
job,  it  is  necessary  to  determine  whether  the  apparatus  is  capable  of  being 
designed  to  meet  these  stringent  requirements.  This  was  judged  to  be  the 
most  important  objective  of  the  undertaking  about  to  be  described,  and 
it  strongly  influenced  the  choice  of  experimental  application  for  the  drum. 

The  program  which  the  designers  set  for  themselves  to  determine  the 
possible  suitability  of  the  magnetic  drum  type  of  equipment  might  be 
summarized  as  follows: 

(1)  Choose  an  existing  telephone  application  in  which  a  magnetic  drum 
system  can  receive  a  satisfactory  work-out  without  disordering  the  sys- 
tem. 

(2)  Design  a  magnetic  drum  system  to  work  cooperatively  with  exist- 
ing office  equipment,  using  existing  power  facilities.  Assume  that  the  de- 
sign is  aimed  at  practical  application  so  that  due  regard  is  given  to  operat- 
ing economies,  and  protection  against  power  failures. 

(3)  Construct  a  full-scale  model  following  the  design,  and  test  the 
model  in  the  chosen  environment  long  enough  to  determine  the  failure: 
rate  and  the  reasons  for  each  failure. 

(4)  Evaluate  the  results  in  order  to  determine  the  sphere  of  useful- 
ness, and  the  proper  design  philosophy  for  applying  magnetic  drum  sys- 
tems of  any  kind  in  existing  telephone  offices. 

One  telephone  switching  application  which  meets  the  qualifications  of 
(1)  above  exists  in  the  new  No.  4 A  toll  switching  offices.  Here,  due  to  the 
demands  of  nationwide  dialing,  a  large-scale  translation  function  is  re- 
(]uired  to  convert  destination  codes  into  information  which  will  properly 
loute  each  call.  The  volume  of  information  which  nuist  be  stored  foi' 
1  laiislation  purposes,  and  the  relatively  rapid  access  desired,  fall  close  to 
the  optinnim  parameter  values  of  magnetic  drum  systems.  The  action 


MAGNETIC    DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR   TOLL   SAVITCHING   OFFICES      709 

takes  place  in  cooperation  with  crossbar  and  other  relay-type  switching 
equipment  typical  of  the  present-day  telephone  office,  thus  providing  an 
environment  suitable  for  obser\'ing  the  behavior  of  fast  pulse  circuits  in 
the  presence  of  electrical  disturbances.  Finally,  there  exists  a  relatively 
new  piece  of  apparatus  which  now  performs  the  translation  function, 
nair.ely  the  card  translator.  Thus,  if  an  exact  one-to-one  alternative  for 
the  card  translator  were  constructed  employing  a  magnetic  drum,  full 
advantage  could  be  taken  of  the  testing  procedures  already  de\'eloped 
and  a  comparison  could  be  made  against  a  norm  of  performance;  further- 
more, a  field  trial  would  be  possible,  if  desired,  with  a  minimum  of  inter- 
ference with  normal  operation  of  the  telephone  plant. 

It  was  decided,  therefore,  to  build  a  full-scale  magnetic  drum  trans- 
lator which  could  substitute  for  a  card  translator  in  order  to  obtain  lab- 
oratory e.Kperience  with  apparatus  of  this  type  and  to  determine  its  adapt- 
ability to  telephone  standards  and  practices.  The  completed  equipment 
is  shown  in  Fig.  1.  The  equipment  on  the  one  frame  illustrated  is  the 
equivalent  in  function  and  capacity  of  one  card  translator  with  its  asso- 
ciated table.  This  magnetic  drum  apparatus  is  not  aimed  at  replacing  the 
card  translator,  which  is  a  well-engineered  device  known  to  give  satis- 
factory service  in  day-to-day  operation.  For  evaluation  purposes  in  this 
article,  however,  it  is  assumed  to  be  competing  with  the  card  translator. 
The  following  sections  describe  the  design  features  and  operating  de- 
tails of  the  translator  which  was  constructed.  A  brief  description  of  the 
card  translator  and  that  portion  of  the  4A  office  in  which  the  drum  trans- 
lator must  function  has  been  included  to  provide  the  necessary  back- 

,  ground  for  the  description.  It  will  become  evident  that  the  requirement 
of  interchangeability  which  necessitates  a  one-to-one  equivalence  with 

I  the  card  translator  has  imposed  on  the  drum  translator  a  number  of  re- 
strictions which  are  not  inherent  in  it.  These  tend  to  prevent  full  exploita- 

j  tion  of  the  speed  and  code  advantages  which  might  be  realized  with  the 
drum.  Furthermore,  the  rapidity  with  which  all  of  the  information  on  the 

'  drum  is  presented  on  a  continuous  read-out  basis  would  permit  a  type  of 

i  centralized  operation  which  will  be  touched  on  briefly  and  which  would 

i  seem  to  offer  apparatus  economies  not  attained  in  the  test  model.  None 
of  these  factors,  however,  impairs  the  usefulness  of  conclusions  which 

!  may  be  drawn  from  test  results  concerning  reliability. 

SURVEY  OF  MAGNETIC  RECORDING  PRINCIPLES  EMPLOYED  IN  THE  TRANS- 
LATOR 

All  magnetic  drums  have  certain  features  in  common :  they  consist  of 
a  means  of  moving  a  thin  shell  of  magnetically-hard  material  rapidly 


710  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


Fig.  1  —  Magnetic  drum  translator,  laboratory  installation. 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      711 


past  one  or  more  heads  used  for  writing  or  reading  digital  data.  Usually, 
as  in  the  translator,  the  same  head  is  used  for  both  functions.  In  most 
drum-system  designs  the  pole-tips  of  the  heads  are  close  to  the  recording 
surface  but  do  not  touch  it,  and  the  heads  themselves  bear  a  resemblance 
to  those  used  in  conventional  magnetic  sound  recording,  giving  therefore, 
a  "longitudinal"  polarization  to  the  medium  as  sketched  diagrammati- 
cally  in  Fig.  2.  There  is  very  little  further  resemblance  to  sound  record- 
ing, since  digital  information  is  stored  in  a  binary  or  two-valued  code 
which,  on  the  translator  drum,  is  represented  by  the  two  possible  polari- 
ties of  saturation  of  the  magnetic  medium.  To  one  of  these  polarities  is 
assigned  the  code  value  "O,"  and  this  condition  prevails  except  where 
the  opposite  polarity  is  inserted  to  represent  the  code  value  "  1." 

It  should  be  mentioned  that  several  other  systems  have  been  devised 
which  employ  the  two  directions  of  saturation,  sometimes  accompanied 
by  a  general  background  of  magnetic  neutrality,  to  effect  a  greater  con- 
centration of  digital  information  than  that  used  in  the  translator.  Systems 
other  than  the  one  chosen  for  this  application  were,  for  the  most  part, 
considered  to  be  less  reliable. 


THIN    MAGNETIC 
COATING 


SIMPLIFIED 
WRITING    AMPLIFIER 


READING  AMPLIFIER 


r" 


THRESHOLD 
LINEAR  OUTPUT 

AMPLIFIER  STAGE 


•^ V 

MONITOR 


D 


OUTPUT 


L. 


MAGNETIC   READING 
AND  WRITING   HEAD 


Fig.  2  —  Simplified  diagram  of  magnetic  drum  digital  data  storagje  system. 


712  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

111  order  to  facilitate  an  understanding  of  the  action  of  the  translator 
as  a  whole,  a  simplified  account  of  the  magnetic  recording  and  repro- 
ducing process  will  now  be  given. 

Magnetic  Drum  Geography 

The  circumferential  strip  of  the  drum  surface  which  moves  under  the 
pole-tips  of  any  magnetic  head  is  commonly  known  as  a  track.  On  each 
track  will  be  written  magnetic  perturbations  or  spots  symbolizing  " I's." 
It  is  essential  that  these  spots  be  precisely  located  so  that  they  may  be 
readily  removed  or  "altered."  For  this  purpose  a  synchronizing  track  or 
some  equivalent  distribution  of  equally  spaced  identifying  marks  asso- 
ciated w4th  the  drum  is  provided.  With  the  aid  of  the  electronic  circuits, 
the  magnetic  spots  are  restricted  to  a  modular  spacing  defined  by  the 
synchronizing  marks,  and  this  module  is  spoken  of  as  a  "slot."  On  the 
drum  surface,  each  intersection  of  track  and  slot  is  known  as  a  "cell"  and 
a  cell  may  contain  only  one  magnetic  mark  and  therefore  only  one  bit  of 
information.  As  a  matter  of  economics,  the  cell  density  should  be  as  great 
as  possible.  The  density  which  may  be  attained  is  determined  by  the  de- 
gree of  interference  which  can  be  tolerated  among  neighboring  cells. 

Writing  Operations 

The  first  step  in  preparing  the  drum  to  receive  a  recording  is  to  uni- 
formly magnetize  the  tracks  to  saturation  in  the  polarity  arbitrarily 
chosen  to  represent  the  code-value  "O."  This  is  a  preconditioning  opera- 
tion required  only  when  a  drum  is  newly  placed  in  service.  Referring  to 
Fig.  2,  this  may  be  done,  for  the  typical  head  and  track  shown,  by  closing 
the  switch  marked  "0"  for  the  duration  of  at  least  one  complete  revolu- 
tion of  the  drum.  Enough  current  must  flow  through  the  windings  of  the 
head  to  establish  the  magnitude  of  fringing  flux,  from  the  pole-tips,  re- 
rjuired  to  saturate  the  thin  magnetic  coating.  In  the  case  of  the  trans- 
lator drum,  the  coating  is  about  ^-i  milli-inch  thick;  the  clearance 
between  pole-tips  and  recording  surface  is  about  2  milli-inches;  the  inter- 
pole  gap  is  also  about  2  milli-inches  at  the  tips,  and  about  20  ampere- 
turns  of  energization  are  recjuired. 

With  the  track  thus  preconditioned,  there  is  virtually  no  output  \ olt- 
age  from  the  head  since  the  magnetization  is  essentially  uniform  and 
there  is  no  changing  flux  threading  the  head  to  induce  a  Aoltage  in  the 
windings. 

Whenever  a  "  /"  is  to  be  written,  a  pulse  of  cuireiit  from  an  oIcM'trouic 
writing  amplifier  (indicated,  for  convenience,  on  Fig.  2  as  a  switch)  is 


MAGNETIC   DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL   SWITCHING   OFFICES       713 

tiiused  to  flow  through  the  windings  of  the  head  in  a  direction  opposite 
to  that  taken  by  the  preconditioning  current.  This  pulse  lasts  for  only 
t  wo  or  three  microseconds,  and  movement  of  the  drum  surface  is  negli- 
gibly small  while  the  current  persists.  The  peak  value  of  the  current  pulse 
is  sufficient  to  magnetize  to  saturation  in  the  opposite  direction  that  por- 
tion of  the  track  which  lies  directly  under  the  pole-tips  at  that  instant. 
Areas  of  the  track  far-removed  in  each  direction  from  the  pole-tips  of 
the  head  are,  of  course,  unaffected  by  this  operation,  and  remain  at  sat- 
uration in  the  original  polarity.  A  region  of  transition  in  magnetization 
1  herefore  e.xtends  in  each  direction  along  the  track  from  the  area  directly 
under  the  pole-tips. 

Fig.  3  illustrates  some  of  the  wave  forms  resulting  from  writing  into 
and  reading  from  four  adjacent  cells  on  one  track  of  the  dnun.  Line  A 

'  shows  the  pulses  of  writing  current  which  were  applied  to  the  windings 
on  the  head.  These  were  caused  to  appear  at  precisely  spaced  distances 
;ilong  the  track  by  the  combined  operation  of  the  synchronizing  system 
and  an  "administration"  circuit.  In  cells  1  and  3  the  writing  current  po- 

I  larity  is  chosen  so  as  to  write  "I's."  Cell  2  remains  in  its  original  precon- 
ditioned state.  In  cell  4  a  1"  was  previously  written  but  is  now  altered 
lo  a  "O"  by  a  writing  current  pulse  of  the  same  polarity  as  that  chosen 

1  for  the  preconditioning  operation. 

Line  B  in  Fig.  3  illustrates  the  resultant  magnetic  state  of  the  drum 
.surface  as  \'iewed  by  the  reading  head.  The  polarization  portrayed  as  re- 
sulting from  writing  a  "7"  is  a  bell-shaped  curve.  When  a  "  1"  is  selec- 
\We\y  altered  to  a  "0"  the  area  of  track  directly  under  the  pole-tips  will 
be  carried  to  saturation  in  the  original  preconditioned  polarity.  The  whole 
I  ell  area,  however,  cannot  be  affected  so  strongly,  owing  to  the  hysteresis 
properties  of  the  coating  material,  and  there  will  remain  traces  of  the 
'  1"  type  of  magnetization  near  the  cell  edges,  as  indicated  by  the  solid 

:  line  in  cell  4. 

i      There  is  no  difficulty  in  rewriting  a  "7"  in  a  cell  which  has  been  sub- 

I  jected  to  the  above  described  treatment.  The  procedure  is  that  outlined 
tor  the  original  writing  of  a  "i"  and  the  results  are  practically  indistin- 

I  guishable  from  those  obtained  by  writing  in  a  virgin  cell. 

Heading  Operations 

On  subsequent  revolutions  of  the  drum,  the  passage,  under  the  pole- 
tips,  of  the  magnetic  irregularities  created  by  writing  "i's"  will  induce 
a  change  of  flux  through  the  windings  of  the  head.  The  change 
is,  of  course,  a  function  of  distance  along  the  drum  surface  but  since  tl.ri 
drum  is  rotating  continuously  at  a  substantially  uniform  speed  the  change 


714 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


L. 

O 

f. 

UJ 

^ 

tuo 

UJ 

a. 

a. 

D 
O 

13 

Z 

(-5 

liJ3 

ZOC 

1- 

O  Q 

a. 

< 

5 

5 

UJ 


UJI- 

Q-  3 
< 


z< 

I 

QlJJ 

UJ=^ 


03 

a 

o 

t*- 

» 

1 1 

> 

ja 

^ 

,_^ 

bf 

X. 

C 

rr 

-a 

^- 

o 

T1 

^ 

o 

rt 

1 

< 

fcX 

UJ 

() 

+^ 

z 
< 

^ 

1- 

1/1 

o 

Q 

a 

III 

hi 

2 

a! 
1^ 

^ 


MAGNETIC   DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL   SWITCHING   OFFICES       715 

may  also  be  represented  as  a  function  of  time.  This  time-rate-of-change 
of  flux  within  the  coils  of  the  head  generates  a  voltage  which  is  of  the 
order  of  50  millivolts  peak-to-peak  in  the  case  of  the  translator.  This  volt- 
age, after  amplification,  appears  as  shown  in  line  C  of  Fig.  3.  The  trace 
shown  is  that  which  appears  at  the  "linear  output"  monitor  jack  of  a 
translator  reading  amplifier,  and  includes  a  phase  inversion,  character- 
istic of  a  three  stage  amplifier.  Such  a  curve  is  readily  recognized  as  being 
quite  similar  in  shape  to  the  first  derivative  of  the  normal  error-function 
and  hence  we  may  infer  that  the  magnetic  condition  of  the  drum  surface, 
at  least  as  interpreted  by  the  head,  may  be  portrayed  by  a  bell-shaped 
curve,  previously  mentioned,  similar  to  the  error-function  itself. 

The  residual  magnetic  irregularity  pictured  in  cell  4  resulting  from 
writing  a  "0"  over  a  "i"  will  induce  a  voltage  in  the  winding  of  the  head 
having  a  different  amplitude  and  wave  shape  from  that  occasioned  by 
reading  a  "i."  It  is  sketched  out  approximately  to  scale  in  Fig.  3  and  is 
seen  to  be  a  smaller  twinned- version  of  the  "i"  signal.  Its  amplitude  or- 
dinarily lies  in  the  range  of  }4o  to  3^  of  that  of  the  "  T'  signal,  and  for 
about  the  middle  third  of  the  cell  its  instantaneous  polarity  is  opposite 
to  that  which  a  "i"  signal  would  have.  These  facts  suggest  at  least  two 
means  of  discriminating  between  the  voltage  signals  obtained  for  the 
two  code  values:  (a)  on  the  basis  of  amplitude  difference,  and  (b)  on  the 
basis  of  instantaneous  polarity  difference  determined  or  sampled  within 
a  particular  epoch  in  each  cell. 

The  method  adopted  for  the  translator  is  that  of  simple  amplitude 
threshold.  The  threshold  value  indicated  by  the  dotted  line  in  Fig.  3,  is 
set  so  that  the  strongest  of  the  residual  signal  outputs  never  exceeds  it 
\\  hile,  at  the  same  time,  the  greatest  possible  proportion  of  the  positive- 
going  lobe  of  a  "  1"  signal  is  allowed  tp  produce  an  output.  The  threshold 
output  stage  of  the  amplifier  is  also  arranged  for  limiting  and  this  has 
the  effect  of  blunting  the  peaks  of  the  applied  signals.  The  over-all  result 
of  these  actions  is  shown  by  the  shape  of  the  signals  in  line  D  of  Fig.  3. 

Cell  packing  may  be  of  major  economic  importance  in  a  large  installa- 
tion. The  general  effect  of  making  recordhigs  closer  and  closer  together 
is  that  the  presence  or  absence  of  one  of  the  recordings  in  a  series  has  an 
increasing  influence  on  the  size  and  shape  of  the  signals  reproduced  from 
its  neighbors  on  either  side.  In  the  translator,  the  cells  are  spaced  "JO 
niilli-inches  center-to-center  along  the  track  and  the  influence  of  action 
in  one  cell  on  the  amplitude  of  reproduction  from  neighboring  cells  is 
never  more  than  about  10  per  cent.  The  trace  of  line  C,  Fig.  3,  is  drawn 
for  this  cell  spacing  and  shows  a  slight  inflection  at  the  transition  between 
the  output  voltage  occasioned  by  reading  cell  3,  and  the  voltage  obtained 


716       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  MAY  1956 


from  the  "^"  which  was  originally  written  in  cell  4.  In  many  applica 
tions  a  much  larger  "influence  factor"  may  be  tolerable,  but  this  usually] 
requires  greater  elaboration  of  the  signal  detecting  devices.  The  cell  size 
is  also  influenced  by  physical  constants  such  as  design  of  the  head,  prop- 
erties of  the  medium,  and  dimensional  clearances.  A  discussion  of  suchj 
factors  is  outside  the  scope  of  this  paper  but  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  i 
hope  for  an  improvement  of  two-to-one  in  packing  factor  in  future  de-» 
signs. 

Reading  Synchronization 

The  magnetic  drum  used  for  the  translator  provides  80  tracks.  About 
sixteen  microseconds  is  required  for  each  cell  in  a  track  to  pass  under  its 
head.  Information  occupying  the  same  slot  on  the  drum  (so-called  be-  J 
cause  of  its  obvious  relationship  to  the  term  "time-slot"  commonly  used 
in  the  digital  computer  field)  is  presented  at  the  various  heads  essenti- 
ally, but  not  exactly,  simultaneously.  Departure  from  exact  simultaneity 
is  occasioned  by  small  variations  in  the  shapes  and  amplitudes  of  the 
output  waves  shown  typically  as  line  C  in  Fig.  3,  and  by  small  time-vari- 
ations occurring  in  the  writing  process,  as  applied  to  the  ^^arious  tracks. 

To  achieve  exact  simultaneity,  as  required  for  certain  subsequent  op- 
erations of  the  translator  circuitry,  narrow  "Read  Synchronizing"  pulses 
are  produced  by  the  synchronizing  circuit  previously  mentioned.  These 
pulses  are  located,  within  the  time  boundaries  of  the  cells,  so  that  they 
fall  approximately  at  the  center  of  the  broad  output  pulses  from  the 
reading  amplifiers  and  thus  permit  the  latter  to  be  sampled.  This  rela- 
tionship is  indicated  in  lines  D'and  E  of  Fig.  3.  Similar  pulses,  slightly 
displaced  in  time,  are  used  to  control  the  writing  operations,  and  are  des- 
ignated "Write  Synchronizing"  pulses.  The  necessity  for  the  time-shift 
is  apparent  from  an  examination  of  lines  A  and  E  of  Fig.  3. 

This  condensed  explanation  of  the  technology  of  magnetic  drum  digi- 
tal data  storage  devices,  particularly  as  applied  to  the  translator  drum, 
should  serve  as  sufficient  background  for  the  description  of  the  translator 
wherein  the  drum  is  but  one  part  of  a  large  ensemble  of  apparatus. 

THE    JOH    WHICH    THE    CAKD    TRANSLATOR   NOW    DOES 

It  will  be  advantageous  to  examine  very  briefly  the  card  translator  and 
its  functions  in  the  No.  4A  toll  switching  system  so  that  the  analogous 
operation  of  the  magnetic  di'um  equivalent  may  be  more  readil,y  ex- 
plained. A  more  detailed  description  is  given  in  Reference  4. 

'l'li(>  (I'Munnds  of  nation wid(>  toll  dialing  rcniuire  a  \'ery  extonsi\-c  vvp- 


MAGNETIC    DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR   TOLL   SAVITCHING    OFFICES       717 

ertoire  of  translations  between  destination  codes  and  routing  instruc- 
tions, and  it  must  be  possible  to  change  the  routing  instructions  with 
ease.  The  card  translator  fulfills  these  requirements.  Each  individual 
translation  item  is  contained  on  a  metallic  card;  the  output  code  of  rout- 
ing instructions  is  in  the  form  of  selectively  enlarged  perforations  in  the 
perforated  field  of  the  card,  arranged  so  as  to  be  read  by  photoelectric 
means,  and  the  input  code,  which  identifies  the  card  for  purposes  of  selec- 
tion, appears  in  the  form  of  tabs  projecting  downward  from  the  bottom 
edge.  Each  card  is  capable  of  holding  a  total  of  154  bits  of  information, 
input  and  output,  and  somewhat  over  1,000  cards  are  stacked  in  a  bin  in 
each  card  translator  mechanism. 

It  is  possible  to  classify  the  elements  of  any  translator  into  three  broad 
categories:  the  memory  unit,  the  translation  selecting  unit,  and  the  trans- 
lation delivery  unit.  In  the  card  translator  the  memory  unit  is,  of  course, 
I  the  group  of  cards;  the  translation  selecting  unit  consists  of  code  bars, 
'  electro-mechanically  actuated,  for  displacing  a  selected  card  sufficiently 
'  so  that  it  may  be  "read."  It  also  contains  a  network  of  relays  which  per- 
form the  function  of  checking  the  authenticity  of  the  input  codes  applied 
I  to  the  code  bars.  The  translation  delivery  unit  consists,  in  the  main,  of  a 
number  of  output  channels,  each  originating  with  a  light  beam  for  prob- 
I  iiig  one  of  the  code  elements  (a  bit  of  output  information)  on  the  card. 
[  Each  output  channel  contains  a  photo-transistor,  a  transistor  amplifier, 
a  cold  cathode  gas  tube  circuit  which  has  been  designated  a  "channel 
output  detector"  and  a  register  relay.  The  register  relays  perform  work 
'  functions  and  therefore  are  located  separately  from  the  translator;  some 

are  in  the  decoders,  others  in  the  markers. 

!      In  the  4A  office,  the  card  translator  is  one  of  several  items  of  common 

I  control  ecjuipment  which  cooperate  to  establish  the  talking  connections. 

( )ther  items  are  the  sender,  the  decoder,  and  the  marker.  The  sender  re- 

I  ceives  and  registers  and  subsequently  transmits  the  decimal  digits  of  the 

!  called  designation;  the  decoder  receives  the  code  digits  (from  3  to  0  in 

'  number)  from  the  sender  and  submits  them  to  the  translator  for  con- 

;  \ersion  into  information  needed  for  the  proper  routing  of  the  call;  and 

1  the  marker  selects  an  outgoing  trunk  and  establishes  a  transmission  path 

by  operating  the  crossbar  switches.  Since  this  common  control  equipment 

is  associated  with  any  one  call  for  only  the  short  interval  necessary  to 

j  establish  the  talking-circuit  connection,  its  speed  of  operation  is  a  matter 

of  considerable  importance. 

It  is  ob\^ious  that  the  decoder  is  the  intermediary  between  the  trans- 

I  lator  and  the  remainder  of  the  office.  Each  decoder,  of  which  there  are  a 

maximum  of  18  in  a  large  office,  has  exclusively  associated  with  itself  a 


718  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

card  translator  mechanism ;  each  of  these  mechanisms  contains  an  identi- 
cal repertory  of  translations.  Each  decoder  also  has  available,  through 
connectors,  a  common  pool  of  translators  containing  a  large  quantity  of 
less-often  used  information.  In  order  to  better  understand  the  duties 
that  a  magnetic  drum  translator  must  be  expected  to  perform  it  will  now 
be  convenient  to  follow,  in  a  highly  abbreviated  manner,  a  typical  opera- 
tion of  the  decoder  and  its  associated  card  translator. 

The  first  translation  on  an  incoming  call  is  performed  using  the  first 
three  decimal  digits  accumulated  by  a  sender.  As  soon  as  three  digits  are 
available  the  sender  connects  to  a  decoder  which  immediately  signals  its 
individual  translator  to  perform  certain  mechanical  chores  in  preparation 
for  selecting  a  card.  There  are  several  sequencing  signals  between  the  de- 
coder and  translator  during  the  complete  cycle  of  a  translation  (several 
of  these  signals  must  be  synthesized  by  the  drum  translator);  acting 
on  one  of  these  signals  from  the  translator,  the  decoder  passes  the  input 
code  from  the  sender,  adding  certain  supplemental  information  of  its  own. 

The  three  decimal  digits  of  the  input  code  are  in  checkable  combina- 
tions of  two  leads  energized  in  each  of  three  groups  of  five  leads  connected 
to  the  translator.  The  supplementary  information  supplied  by  the  de- 
coder is  in  a  similar  checkable  combination  on  six  leads.  None  of  the  re- 
maining leads  in  the  total  of  38  is  energized,  since  the  translation  being 
described  involves  only  three  code  digits. 

In  the  translator,  the  input  code  actuates  the  card  selecting  mechanism 
and  also  operates  relays  whose  contacts  are  wired  with  a  checking  net- 
work which  confirms  that  the  input  code,  and  the  responsive  operation 
of  the  code  bars,  is  an  authentic  combination.  This  is  done  by  establish- 
ing a  path  to  operate  a  "code  bar  check"  relay,  cbk.  (This  relay  retains 
the  same  identity  in  the  magnetic  drum  translator.) 

Acting  upon  the  authenticity  check,  the  card  translator  proceeds  to 
select  a  card,  and  signals  the  decoder  to  begin  timing  for  a  possible  non- 
appearance. When  the  card  is  in  a  position  to  be  read,  the  decoder  is  sig- 
naled on  two  "index"  channels,  ind.  The  decoder  now  "reads"  the  card 
by  applying  130  volt  battery  to  the  coils  of  its  register  relays;  the  re- 
quired relays  operate  through  the  ionized  cold-cathode  gas  tubes  in  the 
translator,  and  lock  up,  extinguishing  the  gas  tubes. 

'{'he  first  card  dropped  may  provide  information  sufficient  for  complet- 
ing the  connection;  in  this  circumstance  the  decoder  will  then  call  in  a 
marker.  The  first  card,  however,  may  specify  that  more  digits  are  re- 
quired and  the  decoder  will  so  instruct  the  sender.  The  sender,  unless  it 
already  has  the  necessary  digits,  is  then  dismissed  by  the  decoder  which 
also  instructs  the  translator  to  restore  itself  to  normal. 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      719 

Six-digit  translations  are  obtained  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  des- 
cribed above  except  that  the  checking  network  on  the  relays  is  switched 
to  check  for  six  rather  than  three  digits.  In  some  instances  the  decoder 
must  refer  to  one  of  the  translators  in  the  common  pool  of  "foreign  area 
translators"  in  order  to  obtain  the  reciuired  information.  Frequently,  sev- 
eral different  cards  must  be  dropped  successively  before  a  route  is  finally 
established  for  the  outgoing  call. 

With  the  above  description  as  a  background,  we  may  proceed  to  discuss 
the  magnetic  drum  translator. 

THE  ANALOGOUS  FUNCTIONS  OF  THE  MAGNETIC  DRUM  TRANSLATOR 

The  magnetic  drum  translator  is  essentially  a  device  which  performs 
a  translation  by  making  a  selection  from  a  recurrent  pattern  of  electrical 
pulses  generated  by  a  magnetic  drum  unit.  A  schematic  diagram  of  the 
magnetic  drum  translator,  as  arranged  for  direct  substitution  for  a  card 
translator,  is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  In  this  diagram,  the  system  is  divided  into 
three  principal  functional  components:  (a)  the  drum  memory  assembly 
which  produces  (from  the  outputs  of  80  reading  amplifiers  and  a  timing 
unit)  a  repetitive  pattern  of  electrical  pulses  representing  all  the  transla- 
tions on  the  drum,  both  input  codes  and  corresponding  output  codes;  (b) 
the  translation  selecting  unit  which  reads  that  portion  of  the  pulse  pat- 
tern representing  input  codes  and  acts  to  identify  the  unique  code  group 
which  matches  the  incoming  information  from  the  decoder ;  (c)  the  trans- 
lation delivery  unit  which,  under  control  of  the  translation  selecting  unit, 
gates-out  the  particular  pulses  of  the  corresponding  output  code  from  the 
continuous  stream  of  microsecond  pulses,  and  converts  them  into  signals 
capable  of  operating  the  register  relays  in  the  decoder. 

To  maintain  direct  interchangeability,  two  items  of  apparatus  were 
adopted  virtually  without  change  from  the  card  translator.  These  are  the 
(ODE  CHECK  RELAYS  which  accept  and  check  input  information,  and  the 
CHANNEL  OUTPUT  DETECTORS  comprising  cold-cathodc  gas  tubes  and  as- 
sociated transformers.  This  allows  input  and  output  terminal  facilities 
to  the  decoder  to  be  the  same  for  both  translators. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  magnetic  drum  memory  assembly  differs 
significantly  in  one  functional  respect  from  the  binful  of  cards  in  the  card 
translator.  When  a  selected  card  is  being  read  by  the  photo-electric  cells 
in  the  output  channels,  no  other  cards  are  available.  In  the  drum  trans- 
lator, all  translations  are  continuously  available  and  if  a  number  of  trans- 
lation selecting  and  translation  delivery  circuits  are  employed,  all  may 
obtain  translations  from  a  common  drum  memory  assembly  at  the  same 
time  without  interference.  This  feature  could  not  be  demonstrated  in  the 


720 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1950 


test  set-iip  as  planned,  but  il  would  have  been  incorporated  in  any  test 
which  includcnl  more  than  one  decoder  in  an  office.  In  such  an  arrange- 
ment, the  various  units  illustrated  in  Fig.  2,  except  the  drum  memory 
assembly-,  would  be  furnished  to  each  decoder.  One  drum  memory  assem- 
l)ly  (;iii(l  lui  (Miici-gency  standby)  would  supply  Ihc  pattei'n  of  electrical 


MAGNETIC   DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL   SWITCHING   OFFICES       721 

pulses  to  all  translation  selecting  and  translation  delivery  circuits  in  mul- 
tiple. The  object  of  such  an  arrangement,  naturally,  is  to  employ  the  mag- 
netic drum  system  in  the  most  economical  manner.  A  further  extension 
along  the  same  lines  would  involve  relay  switching  of  the  pulse  circuits 


TRANSLATION    SELECTING  UNIT 


"n 


MATCH 
UNIT 
NO.t 


MATCH 
UNIT     — 
NO. 8 


I — T — 1 

'    I     f    f     I  t     ♦    T     T      L 


AND -GATE 


AND -GATE 


AND-GATE 


'A" 

PULSE 

GENERATOR 


-MATCH    PULSE 


CBKM 


DISABLE  ^~j»j 
BIAS 


SLOT- 

SPANNING 

MEMORY 


3_J 


AND-GATE 


"B" 

PULSE 

GENERATOR 


CODE  CHECK  RELAYS 


H 


0         K> 


X 


T 

I 


I 


I 


INPUT  CODE 
CHECKING 
NETWORK 

I  I 


H 


X 


T 

X 


CBK 


1 

I 

IND  B 


^ 


i  t 

X 


si 

U. 


DC 

oS 


tr  block  diagram. 


722  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

to  give  access  to  the  emergency  drum  memory,  or  to  a  "foreign  area" 
memory  where  such  extra  memory  capacity  is  necessary. 

Let  us  now  return  to  the  discussion  of  Fig.  4  and  consider  the  assign- 
ment of  the  translation  information  to  the  drum  surface  where  it  is  stored. 
Recall  that  the  drum  surface  is  effectively  divided  into  a  grid  by  the  co- 
ordinates of  tracks,  each  passing  under  an  individual  write-read  magnetic 
head,  and  "slots,"  each  defined  by  the  appearance  of  a  timing  pulse  in  a 
rhythmic  train  synchronized  from  the  drum  itself,  and  that  the  "cells," 
at  the  coordinate  intersections,  each  accommodate  one  bit  of  code  infor- 
mation. 

Since  each  card  in  the  card  translator  accommodates  38  bits  of  input  | 
code  and  116  bits  of  output,  about  160  cells,  divided  in  the  ratio  of  one 
cell  for  input  to  every  three  cells  for  output,  must  be  assigned  to  each  i 
translation  item.  One  simple  and  direct  assignment  would  be  to  place 
the  entire  translation  item  in  a  single  slot  composed  of  160  cells.  With  i 
this  layout  the  slot  containing  the  desired  translation  would  be  identi- 
fied by  reading,  or  "matching"  the  input  code,  and  during  this  same  in- 1 
terval  the  output  information  in  the  same  slot  would  be  gated-out  to  the  I 
translation  delivery  circuits.  A  1 ,000-translation  drum  would  then  be' 
long  and  narrow,  and  far  too  many  reading  amplifiers  would  be  required. ' 
Another  evident  arrangement  would  be  to  assign  the  entire  input  code: 
to  the  first  of  each  group  of  four  slots  proceeding  under  the  heads,  with 
the  output  code  following  in  the  next  three  slots.  Such  an  allocation 
would  require  only  40  reading  amplifiers  but  the  drum  necessary  for  the 
desired  capacity,  with  the  cell-spacing  chosen,  would  have  been  larger' 
in  diameter  than  the  mechanical  designers  cared  to  undertake  in  their 
first  trial.  A  logical  choice,  therefore,  was  to  place  each  translation  item 
in  a  pair  of  adjacent  slots,  and  this  was  done,  although  it  was  later  recog- 
nized that  other,  more  sophisticated,  arrangements  might  offer  eertainj 
advantages. 

In  Fig.  4,  the  apparent  location  of  one  translation  item  is  sketched  inj 
relation  to  the  drum  surface.  This  sketch  is  not  drawn  to  scale,  since  thef 
slot  width  is  actually  only  0.020  inch,  and  the  track  width  is  comparable. 
It  is  also  geographically  inaccurate;  actually  the  cells  of  any  one  slot  arei 
positioned  in  four  quadrants  on  the  drum,  the  associated  heads  being! 
positioned  in  four  stacks  for  mechanical  reasons.  However,  all  of  the 
cells  in  a  time  slot  pass  under  all  of  the  heads  at  the  same  instant  and  the| 
presentation  of  Fig.  4  was  adopted  for  the  sake  of  clarity. 

Note,  then,  that  the  input  code  and  one-third  of  the  output  code  arel 
recorded  in  the  first  or  a  slot  of  a  slot-pair  passing  undcn-  the  reading^ 
heads,  and  that  the  remaining  two-thirds  of  the  output  code  occupies 


MAGNETIC  DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      723 

the  B  slot  which  immediately  follows.  The  parallel  (simultaneous)  pres- 
entation of  the  entire  input  code  to  the  translation  selecting  unit  permits 
that  unit  to  indicate,  by  a  pulse,  that  the  translation  item  is  the  one  de- 
sired and  to  gate-out  the  output  code  in  the  same  slot  while  it  is  still 
passing  under  the  heads.  Having  thus  identified  the  first  slot  of  a  trans- 
lation item,  it  is  a  simple  matter  to  pro\'ide  the  facilit}^  for  gating-out 
the  remaining  information  recorded  in  the  next  succeeding  slot. 

It  will  be  seen,  from  the  circuit  arrangement  shown,  that  the  transla- 
tion selecting  unit  also  receives  a  portion  of  the  output  code  recorded  in 
the  second  slot  of  each  pair.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  distinguish  be- 
tween the  A  and  b  slots  of  a  pair.  This  is  most  conveniently  done  by  the 
Timing  Unit,  which  is  provided  with  two  outputs,  the  pulses  defining 
the  slots  appearing  alternately  at  these  outputs.  One  output  lead  is  cho- 
sen to  define  all  the  a  slots  and  it  is  routed  to  the  translation  selecting 
unit  to  provide  a  portion  of  the  pulse-pattern  required  for  complete  and 
proper  identification  of  an  input  code. 

The  action  of  the  magnetic  drum  translator  in  making  a  translation 

may  now  be  traced  by  following  the  block  diagram  of  Fig.  4.  The  decoder, 

of  course,  gives  the  same  preliminary  signals  as  for  the  card  translator, 

but  these  are  ignored  by  the  drum  translator,  because  it  is  continuously 

presenting  all  1024  translations  at  the  rate  of  30,000  per  second  and  need 

not  take  any  preparatory  steps,  provided  its  relays  have  returned  to 

normal   after   the   last   translation.   The   normal   state   of  the   relays 

is  checked  by  means  of  a  circuit  through  their  contacts;  if  this  circuit  is 

complete,  the  decoder  receives  the  signal  to  apply  the  input  code  as  soon 

as  it  seizes  the  translator.  A  more  elaborate  checking  arrangement  could 

}  have  made  this  signal  conditional  upon  other  tests,  such  as  a  "standard 

1  translation,"  to  determine  that  the  electronic  circuitry  (in  bulk)  was 

functioning  properly,  but  it  was  not  considered  worthwhile  to  do  so  in 

I  the  system  described  here. 

1     The  decoder,  then,  furnishes  the  input  code  of  the  desired  translation 
1  item,  causing  certain  of  the  relays  labeled  code  check  relays  in  Fig.  4 
!  to  operate.  Contacts  on  these  relays  are  interwired  to  provide  the  same 
checking  network  as  in  the  card  translator,  and  a  check  on  the  authen- 
ticity of  the  input  code  will  be  evidenced  by  operation  of  the  relay  labeled 
CBK.  This  event  is  signaled  to  the  decoder  so  that  it  may  start  its  "no- 
I  card"  timer  action.  When  cbk  closes,  it  also  operates  a  chatter-free  mer- 
cury-contact relay,  cbkm,  in  the  translation  selecting  unit,  permitting 
that  unit  to  produce  an  output  at  the  appropriate  time.  Each  code-check 
relay  which  operates  applies  a  positive  voltage  to  one  of  the  input  ter- 
minals of  a  "match"  unit  in  the  translation  selecting  unit.  For  each  of 


724  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 

these  input  terminal  there  is  a  complementary  terminal  to  which  are 
applied  negative-going  pulses  from  one  of  the  drum  memory  reading  am- 
plifiers. As  will  be  explained  later,  advantage  is  taken  of  this  comple- 
mentary arrangement  to  obtain  a  signal  indicating  a  match  between 
either,  (1)  an  operated  code  relay  and  a  pulse  from  the  reading  amplifier, 
or  (2)  a  nonoperated  relay  and  no  pulse  from  the  reading  amplifier.  All 
of  these  signals,  from  40  sections  of  the  match  units,  are  combined  in  a 
cascade  of  "and"  gates;  when  all  indicate  a  match,  the  translation  se- 
lecting unit  delivers  an  output  "match"  pulse. 

Since  this  match  pulse  is  not  strong  enough  to  enable  40  gates  in  the 
output  channels,  it  is  passed  to  a  "pulse  generator"  (a  regenerative  pulse 
repeater)  which  produces,  virtually  coincident  in  time,  a  powerful  "a" 
gate-opening  pulse.  Note  that  both  the  "a"  and  the  similar  "b"  pulse 
generators  are  enabled  to  operate  only  when  the  input  code  is  authentic, 
as  evidenced  by  the  operated  code  check  relay  cbkm. 

In  an  unrestricted  magnetic  drum  translator  design  this  identifying 
pulse  would  cause  immediate  registry  of  part  of  the  desired  information. 
Here,  however,  is  evidenced  one  of  the  penalties  for  having  a  direct  one- 
for-one  substitution  for  a  card  translator.  The  decoder  and  card  transla- 
tor function  in  a  definite  sequence;  one  of  the  steps  in  this  sequence  is 
initiated  by  the  ind  signal  from  the  translator  which  informs  the  decoder 
that  the  selected  card  is  properly  "indexed"  so  that  it  may  be  "read." 
Therefore,  in  the  case  of  the  drum  translator,  to  preserve  this  sequence, 
the  selected  translation  is  permitted  to  pass  unheeded,  except  that  the 
IND  signal  is  synthesized  from  the  identifying  b  gate-opening  pulse.  This 
operation  closes  one  relay,  indb,  through  a  special  output  channel  (top- 
most one  in  Fig.  4)  provided  for  the  purpose.  The  decoder,  thus  notified 
that  the  desired  translation  is  available,  applies  battery  to  its  register 
relays,  and  the  output  channels  are  completely  enabled  for  a  subsequent 
registry  of  the  desired  information. 

The  output  information  is  usually  registered  during  its  next  passage, 
one  drum-revolution  after  initial  identification  of  the  item.  The  action  of 
identifying  the  translation  is  again  as  described  above,  and  there  remains 
only  to  follow  the  operation  in  the  output  channels.  E\'en  before  the 
translation  selecting  unit  has  initiated  the  identifying  gate-opening 
pulse,  reading  amplifiers  which  are  required  to  deliver  an  output  code 
have  each  commenced  delivery  of  a  pulse  to  their  corresponding  gate 
terminals  in  the  and  gate  and  pulse  stretcher  units.  (See  Fig.  4).  When 
these  pulse  signals  have  reached  a  stable  maximum,  the  gate-opening 
pulse  (a  or  b  depending  on  the  slot  which  is  being  read  at  the  moment)  is 
free  to  pass  through  the  gates  and  to  trigger  the  pulse  stretchers.  The , 


MAGNETIC   DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR   TOLL   SWITCHING   OFFICES       725 

latter  devices,  each  containing  a  single  transistor  in  a  monostable  circuit 
arrangement,  deliver  12-volt  pulses  lasting  about  a  millisecond.  The 
pulse  stretchers  from  which  an  output  code  is  not  required  are  not  trig- 
gered, owing  to  the  absence  of  pulses  from  the  corresponding  reading 
amplifiers. 

The  remainder  of  the  output  channel,  as  previously  stated,  is  borrowed 

directly  from  the  card  translator,  and  the  action  is  similar.  In  the  output 

detector,  a  transformer  steps-up  the  12-volt  pulse  signal  to  a  voltage  more 

than  sufficient  to  establish  a  discharge  in  the  control  gap  of  a  cold-cathode 

gas  tube.  Since  the  decoder  has  applied  voltage  through  a  relay  coil  to 

the  main  gap,  the  discharge  transfers,  and  the  resultant  current  flow 

operates  the  relay.  The  operated  relay,  which  may  be  in  the  decoder, 

registers  the  code  and  locks  to  ground  through  an  auxiliary  contact.  This 

'  action  also  extinguishes  the  gas  tube,  thereby  extending  its  life. 

:      Except  for  relay  operation,  all  of  the  activity  described  here  for  two 

drum  revolutions  repeats  itself  for  every  subsequent  drum  revolution 

I  for  as  long  as  the  code  check  relay  cbkm  remains  operated.  However, 

!  once  the  code  is  registered,  no  further  use  is  made  of  the  pulses  in  the 

output  channels. 

When  the  decoder  has  made  use  of  the  translation,  it  transmits  a  sig- 

I  lull  which  is  used  in  the  code-check  relay  system  to  indicate  when  all  re- 

;lays  are  properly  restored.  In  the  card  translator  this  signal  is  also  used 

to  restore  the  selected  card,  but  in  the  drum  translator  this  operation, 

of  course,  is  not  required. 

.  idministration  Equipment 

I 

To  utilize  the  magnetic  drum  translator  as  described  above,  it  is  obvi- 
ous that  some  means  for  writing-in  the  translations  is  as  necessary  to 
t  he  drum  as  a  card  punch  is  to  the  card  translator.  Although  a  selective 
S  writing,  or  "Administration  Unit"  was  required,  a  highly  efficient  design 
\\  as  not  essential  to  the  experiment.  Consequently  there  was  constructed 
a  separate,  portable  aggregation  of  essential  basic  electronic  circuits, 
; arranged  for  manual  control,  but  designed  with  a  view  to  possible  ex- 
'leusion  to  fully  automatic  operation.  This  equipment  will  be  described 
ill  a  later  section. 

I  QIJIPMENT   AND    CIRCUIT   DESIGN   DETAILS    OF   THE   TRANSLATOR 

(nticrdl  Description 

'i'lie  entire  translator  is  mounted  on  an  11-foot  by  32-inch  bay  and  has 
licen  made  to  conform  to  telephone  central  office  practices  as  far  as  pos- 


726 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


Fici.  5  —  FvowtM-  easing  containing  ])artial  complement  of  reading  amplifiers, 
liming  unit,  tilani(Mit  transformers  and  hlowers.  Koceptacle  at  right  end  of  (>acli 
amidificr  mounting  strip  allows  Administration  unit  to  connect  directl}'  to  mag- 
netic heads  associated  with  those  amplifiers. 


sible;  except  for  the  presence  of  the  drum  unit  at  the  base  of  the  i-ack, 
its  appearance  is  not  unhke  that  of  other  racks  found  in  central  offices. 
Mounted  directly  above  the  drum  unit  is  a  casing  of  conventional  de- 
sign (shown  open  in  Fig.  5)  which  houses  the  reading  amplifiers,  timing 
unit,  filament  transformers,  and  a  self-contained  forced-air  ventilating 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      727 


Fig.  6  —  Upper  casing  containing  translation  selecting  unit,  and  partial  com- 
plement of  pulse  stretchers  and  channel  detectors. 


system.  A  second  casing,  (Fig.  6),  located  directly  above  the  first,  houses 
the  translation  selecting  unit,  pulse  stretchers,  and  channel  output  detec- 
tors. The  various  plug-in  components  used  in  these  sections  are  shown 
in  Fig.  7.  At  the  top  of  the  rack  are  located  the  code-check  input  relays, 
fuses  and  terminal  blocks. 


728 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    195G 


r^    1 


-=5. 


■^^.J 


/^ 


Fig.  7  —  Plug-in  units.  Left  to  right,  reading  amplifier,  match  unit  varistor 
cluster,  individual  varistor,  match  and-gate,  transistor,  and  pulse  stretcher. 

In  wiring  the  rack,  use  of  individually-shielded  conductors  was  held 
to  a  minimum.  The  cable  between  the  drum  unit  and  the  reading  ampli- 
fiers was  composed  of  standard  switchboard  wire,  shielded  as  a  unit  by 
removable  sheet-metal  enclosures,  thus  greatly  reducing  the  bulk  as  com- 
pared to  the  usual  bundle  of  coaxial  cables. 

The  remainder  of  the  wiring,  which  carries  relatively  high-level  signals 
from  unit  to  unit  within  the  frame  was  also  in  the  form  of  cables  of  switch- 
board wire;  this  type  of  wiring  was  tried  as  an  experiment  for  micro- 
second pulse  work,  and  was  found  to  be  successful  in  this  instance. 

Under  normal  conditions  the  entire  translator,  with  the  exception  of 
the  tube  filaments  and  drum  drive  motor,  operates  from  the  standard 
plant  batteries  of  +130  and  —48  volts.  Commercial  60-cycle  power  is 
normally  used  for  filaments  and  motor;  the  motor  is  duplex  and  is  de- 
signed to  transfer  automatically  to  the  48-volt  plant  battery  in  case  of' 
power  failure,  and  the  same  provision  would  have  to  be  made  for  the 
filaments  in  the  event  of  a  telephone  plant  installation.  i 

Magnetic  Drum  Unit  \ 

The  magnetic  drum  unit  is  located  at  the  bottom  of  the  rack,  as  shown i 
in  Fig.  1;  a  close-up  view  with  one  of  the  covers  removed  is  shown  in 
Fig.  8.  A  mounting  casting  supports  the  machine  directly  on  the  floor, 
straddling  the  lower  member  of  the  rack  so  that  no  load  is  imposed  on 
the  rack  structure.  The  drum  rotates  about  a  vertical  axis  and  is  housed 
in  two  cast-iron  end-bells  spaced  by  a  cast-iron  shell.  The  end-bells  carryi^ 
the  bearings  for  the  drum,  and  serve  to  mount  the  motor,  while  the  shell- 1 
casting  rigidly  locates  the  magnetic  heads,  each  very  close  to  the  drum 
surface.  This  design  requires  a  minimum  of  floor  space,  insures  accurate 
bearing  alignment,  provides  a  convenient  location  for  the  magnetic 
heads,  and  permits  the  use  of  tightly-fitting  gasketed  covers  to  exclude 


i 


MAGNETIC   DRUM   TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL   SWITCHING   OFFICES       729 


Fig.  8  —  Magnetic  diiun  unit   pnrllN-  uncovered  to  show  magnetic  iieads  and 
wiring  terminals. 


dirt  iiiid  foreign  material  from  the  magnetic  drum  surface  and  the  bear- 
ings. The  Ke-hp  motor  dri\'es  the  drum  through  a  spring-diaphragm 
coupling. 

The  drum  is  comprised  of  a  stress-reheved  iron  casting  of  high  dimen- 

-^ional  stabiHty,  a  press-fitted  steel  shaft,  and  a  ^^ie"  thick  brass  outer 

,  sliell  which  carries  the  magnetic  recording  medium.  Since  both  drum  and 


730  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

housing  are  of  similar  materials,  and  have  almost  identical  temperature- 
expansion  coefficients,  it  is  expected  that  pole-tip-to-drum  clearance  will 
remain  unchanged  under  normal  conditions  of  service.  The  drum,  which 
is  12.8"  in  diameter,  10"  long,  and  weighs  150  pounds,  is  dynamically 
balanced  and  runs  without  sensible  vibration. 

Commercial  super-precision  angular-contact  ball  bearings,  two  at 
each  end,  are  used  to  mount  the  drum  in  its  housing.  The  lower  bearings 
are  arranged  to  share  the  thrust  load  imposed  by  the  weight  of  the  drum, 
and  the  upper  bearings  are  mounted  opposing  each  other,  and  are  pre- 
loaded one  against  the  other.  The  upper  bearings  serve  only  as  radial 
constraints,  the  outer  races  being  free  to  move  axially.  This  type  of  con- 
struction results  in  a  finished  unit  having  a  total  runout  of  only  a  few 
ten-thousandths  of  an  inch  without  the  necessity  of  machining  the  drum 
on  its  own  bearings.  For  the  experimental  installation,  the  bearings  were 
grease-packed  at  assembly  and  can  be  expected  to  function  satisfactorily 
during  any  reasonable  test  period.  If,  however,  such  a  drum  unit  were 
made  a  permanent  part  of  the  telephone  plant,  other  provisions  have 
been  considered  which  wovdd  insure  adequate  lubrication  over  a  much 
more  extended  period. 

The  magnetic  coating  used  on  the  drum  is  an  electro-deposited  alloy 
of  cobalt  and  nickel  (90  per  cent  Co-10  per  cent  Ni)  approximately 
0.0003"  thick.  This  coating  was  selected  because  of  its  hardness,  strength, 
uniformity,  and  desirable  magnetic  characteristics.  The  thickness  of  the 
coating  is  such  as  to  result  in  a  satisfactory  cell-size  without  undue  sacri- 
fice in  output.  The  purpose  of  the  brass  sleeve  mentioned  previously  is 
to  form  a  nonmagnetic  surface  between  the  magnetic  coating  and  the 
cast-iron  core  since,  if  the  coating  were  applied  directly  to  a  ferro-mag- 
netic  material,  its  effectiveness  would  be  greatly  reduced  by  the  shunting 
effect  of  the  base  material.  The  brass  sleeve  also  serves  to  facilitate  plat- 
ing the  drum,  since  brass,  unlike  cast-iron,  is  amenable  to  the  electro- 
plating process. 

Read-Write  Heads 

One  of  the  read-write  heads  is  shown  in  Fig.  9.  The  magnetic  structured 
consists  of  three  rectangular  bars  of  laminated  material,  arranged  in  theij 
form  of  a  triangle  (as  schematically  represented  in  Fig.  2).  Two  legs  of  j 
this  triangle  carry  single-layer  coils  which  are  series-connected.  These; 
two  legs  also  serve  as  pole-tips,  being  pointed  at  the  end  and  separated  ( 
by  an  air  gap.  The  third  leg  sorx-es  to  complete  the  magnetic  circuit  and,  f 
in  assembly,  is  butted  tightly  against  the  other  members  by  means  of  a-, 
Icafspring. 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING  OFFICES      731 


Fig.  9  —  Magnetic  head  and  mounting  bracket  showing  means  of  adjustment. 

I 

The  magnetic  structure  is  assembled  on  a  nickel-silver  plate  to  which 
have  been  soldered  two  copper  shoes  which  serve  to  locate  the  pole  pieces 
and  shield  the  pole-tips,  thereby  focusing  the  recording  flux  to  some  de- 
gree. After  adjustment  of  the  pole-tips,  the  assembly  is  clamped  in  a 
I  sandwich  by  means  of  a  second,  smaller  nickel-silver  plate.  As  is  evident 
i  from  the  illustration,  this  magnetic  assembly  is  in  turn  assembled  to  a 
mounting  bracket  which  contains  facilities  for  precisely  adjusting  the 
clearance  between  pole-tips  and  drum  surface. 

The  pole- tips  of  the  head  are  0.050"  wide  and  the  tracks  are  on  0.10'' 
centers,  leaving  a  nominal  value  of  0.050"  between  tracks  to  allow  for 
misalignment  of  heads  and  for  flux-spreading.  Heads  which  are  physi- 
i  cally  adjacent  in  each  of  the  four  corner  stacks  are  mounted  on  0.40" 
centers,  but  the  stacks  are  offset  with  respect  to  one  another,  thereby 
interlacing  the  tracks  on  the  drum. 

The  read-write  heads  have  been  designed  expressly  for  use  in  liigh- 
speed  digital  recording.  Very  thin  laminations  are  used  and  this,  coupled 
with  carefully  prescribed  manufacturing  techniques,  results  in  a  head 
having  a  satisfactory  frequency  response  for  the  very  short  pulses  em- 
ployed. When  used  as  a  transducer  to  convert  electrical  pulses  to  mag- 


732  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956  | 

i 

netic  flux,  it  is  capable  of  responding  faithfully  to  frequencies  approach- 
ing ten  megacycles  per  second.  j 

The  Timing  Wheels  and  Associated  Heads  | 

The  synchronizing  pulses  derived  from  the  drum  originate  from  aj 
ol2-tooth  soft-steel  gear  mounted  at  the  top  end  of  the  drum.  In  com-^'i 
bination  with  a  polarized  reproducing  head,  the  gear  generates  a  timing  i 
signal  which  proA'ides  means  for  permanently  locating  the  various  cells ' 
used  to  store  information  on  the  drum  surface.  The  polarized  head  differs 
from  those  used  on  the  drum  proper,  being  of  a  form  which  is  conven- 
tional in  tone-generators  where,  as  in  this  instance,  a  sinusoidal  output 
is  desired.  | 

A  second  gear  is  mounted  at  the  bottom  of  the  drum,  carrying  a  single  \ 
tooth  of  the  same  proportions  as  the  teeth  on  the  upper  gear.  In  combina- ! 
tion  with  a  polarized  reproducing  head,  otherwise  quite  similar  to  those 
used  on  the  drum  proper,  this  single  tooth  provides  a  signal  once  per  rev- 
olution of  the  drum  which  (as  will  be  shown  later)  is  necessary  for  the 
operation  of  the  administration  unit. 

The  Reading  Am-plifier 

One  of  the  80  plug-in  reading  amplifiers  is  pictured  at  the  far  left  in 
Fig.  7.  It  employs  two  twin-triode  vacuum  tubes,  and  consists  of  a  three- :^ 
stage  ac-coupled  linear  broad-band  feedback  amplifier,  followed  by  aj 
threshold  output  stage. 

As  shown  in  the  circuit  schematic  of  Fig.  10,  the  two  halves  of  vi  and] 
the  left-hand  half  of  V2  constitute  the  linear  broad-band  amplifier.  A 
suitable  choice  of  coupling  elements  insures  that  the  amplification  ^^ill| 
diminish,  with  decreasing  frequency,  at  a  controlled  rate  for  frequenciesj 
below  a  few  hundred  cycles  per  second.  It  is  unnecessary  to  provide  am- 
plification at  low  frequencies,  since  the  signals  to  be  handled  have  noJ 
low-frequency  components,  and  it  is  undesirable  to  do  so  from  the  stand- 
point of  hum  pickup.  There  is  about  20db  of  feedback  in  the  important 
part  of  the  frequency  range  and  the  amplifier  is  thus  substantially  sta- 
bilized against  variations  of  gain  due  to  change  in  operating  voltages  and 
aging  of  tubes.  The  over-all  operating  voltage  gain  of  the  linear  stages, 
with  feedback,  is  about  56  db;  the  3  db  points  are  approximately  300 
c/sec  and  700  kc/sec. 

The  grid  of  the  fourth  stage  of  the  reading  amplifier  is  coupled  to  the 
output  of  the  linear  amplifier  and  is  biased  to  about  twice  the  plate-cur- 
rent cut-off  value.  The  output  signal  from  the  plate  of  this  stage,  occa- 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      733 

sioned  by  reading  a  "1",  will  be  a  negative-going  pulse  of  approximately 
40-volt  amplitude  from  a  standing  potential  equal  to  the  plate  supply, 
+  130  volts.  As  a  precaution  against  false  signals,  an  externally-mounted 
plate-feed  resistor  is  provided  to  establish  at  the  output  a  condition  cor- 
responding to  that  of  no  signal  present  when  the  amplifier  is  removed 
from  its  receptacle. 

Timing  Unit 

The  timing  unit  accepts  an  approximately  sinusoidal  timing-wave  sig- 
nal from  the  upper  timing  head,  and  converts  this  signal  into  two  pulse- 
trains,  each  having  1,024  narrow  pulses  per  drum  revolution,  designated 
as  A  sync  and  b  sync,  alternating  in  time  and  available  on  separate  out- 
puts for  controlling  all  the  rest  of  the  circuit  action  of  the  translator.  A 
block-schematic  indicating  how  the  pulse  trains  are  produced  is  shown 
in  Fig.  1 1 . 

The  general  procedure  for  converting  from  a  sine-wave  to  a  synchro- 
nous train  of  short  pulses,  two  per  cycle  of  input,  may  be  traced  through 
the  upper  channel  of  the  drawing.  The  signal,  as  represented  by  voltage 
trace  1,  is  amplified  and  clipped  until  a  steep-sided  square  wave  is  ob- 
tained; this  wave,  trace  2,  is  applied  to  a  push-pull  phase  inverter  from 
which  a  pair  of  oppositely-phased  outputs  is  obtained.  Each  of  the  two 
outputs  is  then  differentiated  by  means  of  an  r-c  network,  and  the  nega- 


+  130V 


^pvw 


INPUT 
FROM   HEAD 


OUTPUT 


A  A  A       -' ^S"^ 


Fig.  10  —  Reading  am])lirior  circuit. 


734 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   MAY    1956 


s 

o3  1 


a 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      735 


tive-goiug  spikes,  traces  3  and  4,  are  combined  in  a  negative-going  or 
gate  of  crystal  diodes. 

These  spikes,  trace  5,  are  used  to  trigger  a  cathode-coupled  single-shot 
multivibrator,  designed  to  give  a  rectangular  pulse  of  about  one  micro- 
second duration.  The  multivibrator  drives  a  pair  of  identical  out- 
put stages:  one  furnishes  the  recjuired  a  sync  pulses  to  other  equipment 
in  the  translator  bay,  and  the  other  delivers  its  output  to  a  coaxial  con- 
nector so  that,  when  required,  the  pulses  may  be  furnished  to  the  admin- 
istration unit. 
I  The  B  sync  pulse-train  is  produced  in  the  lower  channel  shown  in  Fig. 
11.  After  some  linear  amplification,  a  part  of  the  original  input  sine-wave  is 
applied  to  a  vacuum  tube  integrator  circuit.  The  constants  of  the  inte- 
grator are  such  that  it  provides  very  nearly  a  quarter-period  of  phase 
shift  even  if  the  drum  varies  from  its  nominal  speed.  The  output  of  the 
integrator  is  then  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  that  described  for  the 
direct  input,  with  the  result  that  the  required  b  sync  pulses  are  produced. 

The  timing  unit  also  contains  a  third  channel  which  accepts  the  once- 
per-revolution  signal  from  the  special  head  adjacent  to  the  single-tooth 
wheel.  The  output  of  this  channel  provides  the  fiducial  signal,  on  a  low- 
impedance  basis,  for  administrative  operations. 

The  Translation  Selecting  Unit 

This  unit,  which  appears  as  the  bottom  panel  in  the  photograph.  Fig.  6, 
performs  a  number  of  successive  steps  in  making  its  selection.  These  are: 
(1)  recognition  of  a  match  between  input  information  from  a  decoder 
.seeking  a  translation,  and  the  unique  corresponding  information  from 
.the  drum,  selected  from  the  flow  of  continuously-presented  information; 
'(2)  production  of  a  gate-opening  pulse  whose  leading  edge  is  substanti- 
ally coincident  in  time  with  the  leading  edge  of  the  particular  a  sync 
1  pulse  corresponding  to  the  entry  for  which  the  match  occurred;  (3)  acti- 
\ation  of  a  slot-spanning  pulse  circuit  to  bridge  the  time  interval  until 
jthe  next-following  b  slot;  (4)  production,  at  a  separate  output,  of  another 
igate-opening  pulse  whose  leading  edge  is  substantially  coincident  in  time 
with  the  leading  edge  of  the  identified  b  sync  pulse.  These  actions  will 
now  be  considered  individually. 

(1)  Recognition  of  Match 

Responsibility  for  this  function  is  divided  among  a  group  of  eight 
match-units  operating  with  their  associated  differential  amplifiers.  Each 
match-unit  is  capable  of  comparing  the  inputs  from  five  code-relays  with 
the  potentially-matching  outputs  of  five  reading  amplifiers. 

A  circuit  schematic  of  one  of  the  units,  with  its  associated  differential 


736 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


amplifier  and  some  of  the  connected  apparatus,  is  shown  in  Fig.  12.  The  j 
uppermost  channel  on  this  diagram  is  typical  of  all  five  channels.  Re- 
sistors Ri  to  R5  are  proportioned  so  that  the  potential  at  point  c  assumes 
a  value  of  +115  volts  for  either  of  the  two  acceptable  conditions 
of  match:  (1)  code-relay  unoperated  and  reading  amplifier  not  drawing 
plate  current,  or  (2)  code  relay  operated  and  reading  amplifier  drawing  a 
pulse  of  plate  current.  Whenever  either  of  the  two  possible  conditions  of 
mismatch  exists,  the  potential  at  point  c  assumes  a  value  about  15  volts 
higher  or  lower,  depending  on  the  nature  of  the  mismatch.  Resistor  r6 
is  introduced  for  protective  purposes  only.  Varistor  vri  limits  the  nega- 


+130V! 


CODE-CHECK 
RELAYS 


Fig.  12  —  Match  unit  and  differential  amplifier  circuit. 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING  OFFICES      737 

tive  voltage  excursion  at  point  b,  during  a  pulse,  so  that  it  never  goes 
below  +105  volts.  This  establishes  the  uniform  pulse  amplitude  among 
Ithe  forty  match  channels  which  is  necessary  for  proper  functioning  of 
the  unit. 

To  detect  and  recognize  the  voltage  conditions  at  the  five  junction 
points,  two  varistor  gates  and  a  differential  amplifier  are  employed.  One 
gate,  comprising  six  varistors  including  vr6  and  VRii,  will  transmit  the 
type  of  mismatch  signal  which  is  more  positive  than  +115  volts.  This 
signal  is  dc-coupled  to  the  left-hand  grid  of  the  differential  amplifier  as 
illustrated  in  Fig.  12.  The  type  of  mismatch  signal  which  is  less  positive 
than  +115  volts  is  blocked  by  this  gate  but  is  transmitted  through  the 
other  gate  to  the  right-hand  grid.  The  threshold  for  this  discriminating 
action  is  established  by  application  of  a  fixed  nominal  potential  of  +115 
volts  to  varistors  VRii  and  vri2. 

At  match,  the  output  of  each  of  the  two  gates  presents  a  potential  of 
+  115  volts  to  the  differential  amplifier.  The  differential  amplifier  is  bi- 
ased (by  inequality  of  r7  and  rs)  so  that  for  this  condition  the  right- 
hand  triode  is  conducting,  and  the  output  potential  is  lower  than  the 
plate  supply  voltage.  Positive-going  mismatch  signals  on  the  left-hand 
[grid,  or  negative-going  signals  on  the  right-hand  grid  are  then  equally 
jeffective  in  cutting  oft'  the  right-hand  triode,  causing  the  output  voltage 
to  rise  to  plate  supply  potential  signifying  a  mismatch. 

The  outputs  from  the  differential  amplifiers  of  the  eight  match  units 
are  combined  with  the  a  sync  pulses  in  a  system  of  and  gates,  as  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  4.  A  match-pulse  output  from  this  system  thus  signifies 
that  conditions  for  match  have  been  uniquely  determined  for  40  pairs 
[of  items.  Thus  the  match  unit,  in  total,  is  capable  of  distinguishing  be- 
jtween  all  binary  combinations  of  40  bits  or  approximately  10'^  items  al- 
I though  when  a  self-checking  code  is  employed,  as  in  the  translator  appli- 
cation, many  of  these  combinations  are  inadmissible. 

(2)  The  A  Gate-Opening  Pulse 

Occurrence  of  the  match-pulse,  as  just  described,  indicates  that  the 
40  items  constituting  one-half  the  contents  of  one  of  the  a  slots  match 
the  incoming  input  code;  it  is  then  desired  to  spill  out  from  the  other 
half  of  this  same  a  slot  the  information  which  is  also  appearing  at  ampli- 
Ifier  outputs  at  that  instant.  This  is  done  by  means  of  gates  opened  by 
the  action  of  a  gate-opening  pulse,  triggered  by  the  match  pulse. 

The  a  gate-opening  pulse  is  only  a  few  microseconds  in  duration  and 

normally  is  produced  only  once  per  revolution  of  the  drum;  a  quiescent 

[blocking-oscillator  was  chosen  as  the  type  of  circuit  best  suited  for  this 

[purpose.  Whenever  the  code-check  relays  are  operated  in  an  authentic 


738  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

code  combination,  relay  cbkm  is  operated,  ^emo^•ing  a  disabling  bias 
from  the  driver  stage  of  the  blocking  oscillator.  When  in  this  condition, 
each  occurrence  of  the  match  pulse  will  trigger  the  blocking  oscillator, 
thereby  producing  the  a  gate-opening  pulse  once  per  drum  revolution. 

(3)  Slot-Spanning  Pidser 

Whene^'er  an  a  gate-opening  pulse  has  acted  to  permit  read-out  of  i 
information  from  half  of  the  proper  a  slot,  it  is  also  desired  to  read  out  ; 
all  the  information  from  the  next-following  b  slot.  The  first  step  toward  : 
doing  this  is  to  cause  the  a  gate-opening  pulse  to  trigger  a  single-shot  , 
multixibrator  whose  characteristic  period  is  long  enough  to  just  bridge  i 
the  time  until  the  next  slot  appears.  The  output  of  this  pulser  is  combined  I 
with  the  B  sync  pulses  in  an  and  gate  so  that  the  selected  b  pulse,  cor-  i 
responding  to  the  wanted  b  slot,  can  be  used  to  trigger  another  gate-  . 
opening  blocking-oscillator  just  as  the  match  pulse  was  used  to  trigger  t 
the  A  gate-opening  blocking-oscillator.  j 

(4)  The  B  Gate-Opening  Pulse  | 
The  outputs  of  all  the  reading  amplifiers  must  be  gated  for  the  b  slot.  | 

Hence  the  b  gate-opening  pulse  must  operate  twice  as  many  gates  as  the  . 
A  gate-opening  pulse  and  must  be  correspondingly  more  powerful.  This  ■ 
requirement  is  met  by  using  the  same  circuit  design  with  parallel  output 
tubes. 

Pulse  Stretchers  and  Channel  Detectors 

Fig.  13  presents  a  simplified  schematic  of  one  of  the  translator  output 
channels,  together  with  certain  of  the  relays  in  the  decoder.  Package-wise, 
the  pulse  stretchers  combine  two  functions:  that  of  an  and  gate  with  two 
inputs  and  a  threshold  feature,  and  that  of  a  single-shot  multivibrator  for 
amplifying  and  lengthening  the  short  input  pulse  from  the  gate.  A  single 
point-contact  transistor  provides  the  necessary  gain  for  the  monostable 
action.  The  inputs  to  the  and  gate  come  from  sources  which  supply  nega- 
tive-going pulses  from  a  standing  potential  of  +130  volts.  When  one  or 
the  other,  but  not  both,  of  these  sources  supphes  a  pulse,  a  larger  portion  i 
of  the  current  being  supplied  to  resistor  ri  must  be  drawn  from  the  non- 
active  source;  this  extra  demand  causes  a  small  \oltage  drop  which  be- 
comes evident  at  the  gate  output.  The  resultant  weak  false  signal  is  pre- 
vented from  affecting  the  transistor  pulser  by  the  action  of  threshold 
diode  VRi  which  is  normally  back-biased  a  few  volts  by  the  potential  di- 
\-ider  r2,  r3.  Small  negative-going  signals  from  the  gate  will  not  over- 
come the  bias  and  will  therefore  be  greatly  attenuated;  normal  gate-out- 
put pulses,  occasioned  by  coincidence  of  pulses  at  both  inputs  will, 


MAGNETIC  DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING  OFFICES      739 

however,  overcome  the  bias  and  will  be  transmitted  to  the  transistor 
monostable  circuit. 

When  triggered  at  the  base,  the  transistor  delivers  a  pulse  of  about  one 
millisecond  duration  to  the  load  represented  by  the  input  transformer 
and  the  channel  detector  gas  tube  and  thus  provides  the  drive  required 
to  initiate  ionization  in  the  control  gap  of  the  gas  tube.  When  brought 
into  action,  the  transistor  serves  as  a  switch  to  connect  capacitor  c  to 
collector  supply  resistor  r6.  The  voltage  change,  occasioned  by  the  re- 
sultant flow  of  current  in  r6,  is  communicated  to  the  transformer  primary 
through  a  blocking  capacitor  and  a  current  limiting  resistor.  As  capacitor 
c  charges,  the  voltage  at  the  transistor  emitter  will  approach  the  collector 
supply  potential  at  an  approximately  exponential  rate.  When  the  di- 
minishing flow  of  emitter  current  can  no  longer  maintain  the  transistor 
in  its  low-impedance  mode,  it  reverts  to  its  pre-triggered  condition,  and 
the  timing  capacitor  c  is  then  discharged,  primarily  through  forward- 
conducting  varistor  vr2  and  resistors  r5  and  r4. 

Owing  to  the  necessity  of  using  early-production  samples  of  the  type 
of  point-contact  transistor  chosen  for  this  application,  the  associated 
circuitry  for  biasing  the  emitter  into  the  normal  non-conducting  state 
is  somewhat  more  elaborate  than  that  which  might  have  sufficed  with 
later  samples  whose  characteristics  were  more  closely  controlled. 

The  principal  components  of  the  channel  detector  are  a  step-up  trans- 


PULSE  STRETCHER 


CHANNEL  DETECTOR  ASSOCIATED 
EQUIPMENT 
IN  DECODER 
OR   MARKER 


INPUT 


Fig.  13  —  Pulse  stretcher  and  channel  detector  circuit, 


i 


Fig.  14  —  Administration  unit.  Three  eo-ax  leads  entering  under  shelf  bringi] 
A,  B  and  F  pidses  from  translator.  Cable  leading  to  plug  with  bail-handle  resting; 
on  shelf  serves  to  connect  writing  amplifier  output  to  magnetic  heads  in  translatori| 
Bottom  cable  connects  to  60-cycle  source  which  supplies  all  power, 

740 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR   FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      741 

former  designed  for  the  audio  frequency  range,  and  a  cold-cathode  gas 
tube.  The  starter-anode  of  the  gas  tube  has  a  dc  bias  of  about  +24  volts 
with  respect  to  its  cathode  to  reduce  the  value  of  pulse  voltage  required 
to  ionize  it.  When  +130  volt  battery  is  applied  via  the  winding  of  the 
channel  rela.y  to  the  main  anode  of  the  gas  tube,  ionization  established 
in  the  starter  gap  by  the  pulse  stretcher  signal  will  transfer  to  the  main 
gap  and  cause  the  relay  to  operate.  Closure  of  one  of  the  relay  make- 
contacts  serves  to  divert  the  winding  current  from  the  gas  tube  directly 
to  ground,  thereby  extinguishing  the  tube  and  prolonging  its  life.  Other 
contacts,  not  shown,  make  the  registered  information  available. 

Co7npo7ients 

A  full  complement  of  the  electronic  apparatus  described  in  the  last 
few  sections  utilizes  plug-in  components  in  the  following  quantities: 

Twin-triode  electron  tubes 186 

Cold-cathode  gas  tubes 121 

Germanium  varistors 552 

Point-contact  transistors 120 

Only  one  type  of  each  of  these  components  is  used  in  the  translator; 
this  uniformity  greatly  simplifies  the  maintenance  problem  and  imposed 
little  if  any  handicap  on  the  circuit  designs. 

ADMINISTRATION    EQUIPMENT 

Whenever  it  is  desired  to  add,  or  to  change,  a  translation  item  on  the 
drum,  the  auxiliary  administration  unit  pictured  in  Fig.  14  is  connected 
to  the  translator  by  three  shielded  cables,  shown  leaving  the  rack  just 
under  the  shelf,  and  a  ten-conductor  cable,  shown  with  its  plug  resting 
'  on  the  shelf.  The  shielded  cables  convey  the  a  and  b  sync  pulses  and  the 
1  once-per-drum-revolution  fiducial  f  pulse  to  the  administrator.  The  ten- 
conductor  cable,  with  plug,  is  used  to  establish  paths  extending  directly 
i  to  magnetic  heads  on  the  drum.  During  the  recording  of  any  one  com- 
!  plete  translation  item  on  the  drum,  this  plug  is  successively  shifted  to 
each  of  nine  multi-connector  jacks  located  in  the  amplifier  compartment 
I  )f  the  translator. 

'■     The  manual  controls  are  located  just  above  the  shelf.  At  the  right  are 
the  two  keys  for  ordering  a  writing  operation,  one  for  the  a  slot  and  an- 
other for  the  B  slot  of  the  chosen  pair.  If  either  key  is  lifted,  it  will  order 
Ihe  entry  of  a  magnetic  mark  (write  "  1").  If  depressed,  the  key  will  order 
!  the  removal  of  a  mark  (write  "0").  It  is  obvious  that  the  translation  is 


742 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


I-     -o 

^  ounce  tr 
i-q:  _iOO 


LU>.l/)Z 

5    o 


> 

,  UJ 

UJ_j5 

Q.UJ       u 

Q      < 

UJ 


s 


a 
o 


to 


a 

<5 


10 
bb 


HOivnsNvai   do  iind  onii^ii  ox 


MAGNETIC   DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING   OFFICES      743 

inserted  piecemeal  by  working  in  each  track  successively.  The  manual 
switching  operation  of  connecting  a  single  pair  of  writing  amplifiers  to 
each  of  eighty  magnetic  heads,  in  turn,  is  accomplished  partly  by  setting 
the  nine-position  switch  shown  at  the  center  of  the  panel,  and  partly  by 
sliifting  the  plug  of  the  ten-conductor  cable.  At  the  left  are  two  signal 
lights  which  serve  as  alarms  to  warn  the  operator  of  possible  incorrect 
functioning  of  the  equipment. 

The  operation  of  the  administration  unit  can  best  be  traced  with  the 
aid  of  the  schematic  block-diagram  of  Fig.  15.  A  ten-stage  binary  counter 
is  supplied  with  b  sync  pulses  from  the  translator;  the  1,024  possible 
states  of  the  counter  are  traversed  in  the  course  of  exactly  one  revolu- 
tion of  the  translator  drum.  The  f  pulse  from  the  translator  will,  mid- 
way between  two  b  pulses,  set  all  counter  stages  to  zero,  once  per  revolu- 
tion. After  the  first  such  reset,  however,  if  the  counter  is  working 
properly,  it  will  always  have  returned  to  the  zero  condition  just  before 
the  occurrence  of  the  f  pulse,  by  having  counted  1,024  b  pulses;  under 
these  conditions  the  f  pulse,  though  still  initiating  reset  action,  does  not 
change  the  state  of  the  counter.  The  basis  for  the  alarm  signals  mentioned 
above  is  a  circuit  arranged  to  detect  if  a  change  of  state  is  occasioned  by 
the  F  pulse. 

Associated  with  the  counter  is  a  coincidence  circuit  with  a  keyboard 
on  which  may  be  set  up  any  "address"  between  0  and  1,023.  When  the 
count  of  B  pulses  ecjuals  the  address  set  up  on  the  keyboard,  the  coinci- 
dence circuit  delivers  a  pulse  which  persists  until  the  next  b  pulse  alters 
the  count;  this  coincidence  pulse  spans  the  time  of  occurrence  of  an  a 
pulse,  and  is  used  in  the  read  sync  selector  to  gate-out  a  "selected"  a 
pulse  uniquely  assigned  to  the  address  set  up  on  the  keyboard.  A  slot- 
spanning  pulser,  triggered  bj^  the  selcted  a  pulse,  gates-out  the  associ- 
ated "selected"  b  pulse. 

These  selected  pulses,  which  occur  once  per  revolution  of  the  drum,  are 
passed  through  gates  under  control  of  bistable  electron-tube  pairs  which 
can  be  set  by  the  manual  writing  keys  and  are  re-set  by  the  writing  action 
itself.  This  insures  that  the  desired  action  takes  place  only  once  per  key 
operation,  instead  of  repeating,  once  per  drum-revolution,  as  long  as  the 
keys  are  held  operated.  The  manually-gated  unique  selected  a  or  selected 
B  sync  pulse  is  then  slightly  delayed  in  time  to  become  a  selected  write- 
sync  pulse.  It  is  passed  on  through  further  gates  under  direct  control  of 
the  writing  keys,  and  is  emplo3''ed  as  an  input  to  a  writing  amplifier. 

A  pair  of  writing  amplifiers  is  provided,  one  to  write  "  1"  and  the  other 
to  write "0";  the  circuits  are  identical  quiescent  blocking-oscillators  shar- 
ing a  common  output  transformer,  and  one  or  the  other  is  triggered  into 


744  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    195G 

action  by  the  write-sync  pulses.  The  output  transformer  supplies  the 
writing  current  pulses,  under  control  of  the  selector  switch,  to  the  chosen 
magnetic  head.  Arrangements  are  provided  for  synchronizing  an  oscil- 
loscope to  display  the  writing  current  pulses  or  the  voltage  outputs  from 
the  head  at  the  selected  address,  as  required. 

When  a  new  translation  item  is  to  be  entered,  or  an  existing  one  al- 
tered, the  address  corresponding  to  the  desired  slot-pair  is  determined 
from  a  card-index,  or  ledger,  listing  all  items  on  the  drum.  The  address 
keyboard  is  then  set  to  the  assigned  number,  thereby  singling-out  the 
desired  slot  pair  so  that  the  writing  operation  can  proceed  as  described 
above.  During  this  procedure,  the  monitoring  oscilloscope  may  be  used 
for  verifying  the  new  entry,  two  cells  at  a  time.  Over-all  verification  is 
accomplished  by  exercising  the  translator  through  facilities  already  avail- 
able in  the  toll  switching  office.  There  is  nothing  about  this  procedure 
which  precludes  the  use  of  automatic  facilities  for  performing  the  admin- 
istration. There  is  also  no  fundamental  need  to  take  the  translator  out 
of  routine  service  during  the  administration  operation,  since  each  writing 
operation  disables  the  equipment  for  only  a  few  microseconds  and  would 
rarely  delay  a  translation  by  as  much  as  one  drum  revolution. 

CONCLUSION 

After  short  preliminary  tests,  the  equipment  described  and  pictured 
was  installed  in  the  switching  systems  laboratory  at  Bell  Laboratories. 
A  rapid-transfer  arrangement  permitted  direct  interchangeability  with  a 
card  translator  in  a  skeletonized  model  of  a  toll  switching  office. 

A  testing  program  was  then  begun  entailing  continuous  24-hours-per- 
day  operation  of  the  magnetic  drum  translator  for  approximately  one 
year.  After  an  initial  shakedown  period  during  which  wiring  faults  and 
other  minor  troubles  were  recognized  and  cleared,  many  millions  of  trans- 
lations were  handled  with  only  a  small  proportion  of  failures.  The  accu- 
mulated data  on  failure  rate  and  cause  was  significant,  being  one  of  the 
primary  objectives  of  the  experiment.  An  analysis  of  the  data  indicated 
the  desirability  of  certain  simple  design  changes  in  the  existing  circuitiy 
and  established  a  basis  for  the  selection  of  future  designs. 

If,  ill  the  future,  consideration  is  given  to  the  design  of  ciniipineiil  of 
this  type  for  some  specific  application,  new  electronic  developments  must 
also  be  taken  into  account.  Many  more  types  of  transistors  are  now 
available  than  when  the  present  design  was  undertaken,  and  some  of  the 
newer  types  have  capabilities  which  make  them  obvious  candidates  for 
many  of  the  jobs  now  done  in  the  translator  with  electron  tubes.  Such  a 
substitution  would  not  only  increase  reliability  and  decrease  power  con- 


MAGNETIC  DRUM  TRANSLATOR  FOR  TOLL  SWITCHING  OFFICES      745 

sumption,  but  since  transistors  are  essentially  current-operated  devices 
t  hey  would  seem  to  be  particularly  suitable  for  working  with  microsecond 
[)ulses  in  the  environment  of  existing  relay-equipped  offices  where  the 
majority  of  interference  transients  are  capacitively-propagated  voltage- 
tlisturbances. 

Evaluation  of  the  magnetic  drum  reveals  it  to  be  a  safe  and  vevy  roli- 
;il)le  means  of  storing  several  hundred  thousand  bits  of  information.  Dur- 
ing the  course  of  these  tests,  the  drum  functioned  perfectly,  and  the  trans- 
lations that  were  recorded  at  the  beginning  of  the  test  were  retained  until 
near  the  end,  when  they  were  deliberately  altered.  During  this  interval 
of  nearly  continuous  operation  there  was  no  detectable  deterioration,  or 
iliange  in  the  signals  obtained  from  the  drum. 

The  results  obtained  from  the  tests  of  this  particular  drum  translator 

indicate  that  the  associated  circuitry,  working  with  microsecond  pulses, 

ran  be  designed  to  measure  up  to  the  exacting  standards  demanded  for 

i  telephone  office  apparatus,  whether  the  application  be  that  of  a  magnetic 

(hum  translator  or  some  other  type  of  equipment. 

i;eferences 

1.  W.  D.  Lewis,  Electronic  Computers  and  Telephone  Switching,  Proc.  I.R.E., 

41,  pp.  1242-1244;  Oct.,  1953. 
'2.  W.  A.  Malthaner  and  H.  E.  Vaughan,  An  Automatic  Telephone  System  Em- 
ploying Magnetic  Drum  Memory,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  41,  pp.  1341-1347;  Oct.,  1953. 
'■\.  .J.  H.  McGuigan,  Combined  Reading  and  Writing  on  a  Magnetic  Drum,  Proc. 

I.R.E.,  41,  pp.  1438-1444;  Oct.,  1953. 
4.  L.  N.  Hampton  and  J.  B.  Newsom,  The  Card  Translator  for  Nationwide  Dial- 
ing, B.  S.  T.  J.,  32,  pp.  1037-1098;  Sept.,  1953. 


I 


Tables  of  Phase  of  a  Semi-Infinite  Unit 
Attenuation  Slope 

By  D.  E.  THOMAS 

(Manuscript  received  February  24,  1956) 


Five  and  seven  place  tables  of  the  integral 


B(x,)  =  '  log 


1  +a: 
1  —  X 


dx 

X 


which  gives  the  'phase  associated  with  a  semi-infinite  unit  slope  of  attenua- 
tion, are  now  available  in  monograph  form.  The  usefulness  of  this  integral 
and  its  tabulation  are  discussed. 

H.  W.  Bode'  has  shown  that  on  the  imaginary  axis,  the  vahies  of  the 
imaginary  part  of  certain  functions  of  a  complex  variable  may  be  ob- 
tained from  the  corresponding  values  of  the  real  part,  and  vice  versa. 
This  theorem  was  immediately  recognized  as  a  powerful  tool  in  the  com- 
munications and  network  fields.  The  most  generally  useful  function  which 
was  given  by  Bode  for  use  in  applying  this  theorem  to  the  solution  of 
communications  problems,  is  the  phase  associated  with  a  semi-infinite 
unit  slope  of  attenuation.  This  is  given  by  the  integral 


1       r':=Xc 
5(.T.)    =    -  log 


1  -\-x 


(J/Jy  / 1  \ 

X 


1    -   X 

where:  5(:i-c)  is  the  phase  in  radians  at  frequency /c  , 

x  =  ^  ,x,  =  ^^  <  1.0 

Jo  Jo 

and  fo  =  the  frequency  at  which  the  semi-infinite  unit  slope 
begins 

The  usefulness  of  Integral  (1)  is  illustrated  by  some  of  the  communica- 
tion problems  which  stimulated  its  accurate  tabulation. 

iT 

1  Bode,  H.  W.,  Network  Aiuily.sis  and  Feedback  Amplifier  Design,  D.  Van  Nos- 
trand  Co.,  Inc.,  New  York,  1945,  Chap.  XIV. 

2  Ibid:  Chap.  XV,  pp.  342-343. 

747 


748  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

When  the  development  program  on  deep  sea  repeatered  .submarine 
telephone  cable  systems  was  reactivated  at  the  close  of  World  War  II, 
one  of  the  first  problems  to  present  itself  was  the  detei-mination  of  the 
delay  distortion  of  a  transatlantic  repeatered  cable  system.  The  only  | 
means  then  known  of  obtaining  an  answer  to  this  problem  was  by  com- 
puting the  minimum  phase  of  the  system  from  its  predictable  attenua- 
tion characteristic,  using  Bode's  straight  line  approximation  method,* 
and  then  determining  the  delay  distortion  from  the  non-linear  portion  of 
this  minimum  phase.  However,  the  non-linear  phase  is  such  a  small  part 
of  the  total  phase,  that  a  five  figure  accuracy  tabulation  of  Integral  (1) 
was  needed  for  a  satisfactory  determination  of  the  non-linearity.  The 
necessary  table  was  therefore  compiled.  A  mmierical  computation  was 
used  to  evaluate  the  integral  because  of  the  simplicity  of  its  integrand. 
The  minimum  phase  of  the  projected  transatlantic  repeatered  telephone 
cables  was  then  computed  using  this  table  and  the  anticipated  delay  dis- 
tortion was  determined  from  the  non-linear  portion  of  this  minimum 
phase. 

About  this  time  the  delay  ecjualization  of  coaxial  cable  systems  for 
television  transmission  became  a  pressing  problem.  Bode's  techniciue 
proved  to  be  the  simplest  means  for  determining  the  delay  to  be  equal-  i 
ized  and  so  the  existing  phase  table  was  immediately  put  to  use  in  the  ji 
coaxial  cable  delay  ecjualization  program. 

The  increasing  use  of  the  tables  led  to  a  decision  to  publish  them  in  in 
The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal.^  In  order  to  make  the  tables 
more  generally  useful,  the  published  paper  included  a  tabulation  of  the 
phase  in  radians  as  well  as  in  degrees.  The  radian  tables  can,  for  example,  I 
be  used  to  determine  the  reactance  characteristic  associated  with  a  given 
resistance  characteristic  of  a  minimum  reactance  impedance  function. 

Because  of  the  demand  for  higher  accuracy  which  occasionally  arose 
after  the  publication  of  the  five  place  tables,  it  was  decided  to  undertake 
the  computation  of  seven-place  tables.  These  tables  were  also  computed 
lunnerically  using  intervals  selected  to  give  at  least  ±1  accuracy  in  the 
final  figure.  The  complete  tables  require  forty-nine  pages  for  tabulation. 
Since  it  is  probable  that  only  a  fraction  of  the  Journal  readers  would 
need  these  tables,  it  did  not  seem  desirable  to  publish  the  actual  tables  iti 
the  Journal.  They  are  therefore  being  put)lished  in  original  monograph 
form  as  Bell  System  Monograph  2550  entitled  "Tal)les  of  Phase  of  a 
Semi-Infinite  Unit  Attenuation  Slope."  The  phase  is  tabulated  in  the 

■'  Ibid  :  Chap.  XV. 

■*  Tliomas,  D.  K.,  Tables  of  I'liase  Associated  willi  a  Semi  Inliiiile  I'nil  Slope 
of  Attenuation,  B. S.T.J. ,  26,  pp.  870-899,  Oct.,  1947. 

^  This  Monograph  will  be  available  about  June  15,  1956. 


TABLES   OF   PHASE  749 

monograph  both  in  degrees  and  radians  for  values  of/  greater  than /o 
as  well  as  for/  less  than/o .  The  tabular  intervals  are  0(0.001)  0.600 
(0.0005)  0.9000  (0.0001)  0.9940  (0.00005)  0.99800  (0.00001)  1.00000. 
These  intcr\'als  were  selected  to  permit  linear  interpolation  for  intermedi- 
ate values  of  the  phase  to  an  accuracy  of  the  same  order  as  the  accuracy 
of  the  tabulated  values,  i.e.,  ±1  in  the  last  place.  The  original  Journal 
article  discussed  the  construction  of  the  tables  and  the  errors  involved 
in  the  numerical  evaluation  of  Integral  (1),  described  and  illustrated 
the  use  of  the  tables,  and  gave  five-place  tabulations  of  the  integral. 
I'his  entire  article  is  therefore  included  in  Monograph  2550  for  complete- 
ness along  with  the  newer  seven-place  tables. 

B.  A.  Kingsbury^  has  pointed  out  that  the  Integral  (1)  which  is  tabu- 
lated in  the  phase  tables  in  question  is  useful  in  other  than  the  communi- 
cations and  network  fields.  A  bibliography  covering  other  possible  fields 
of  interest  is  given  in  an  article  by  Murakami  and  Corrnigton. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The  author  is  indebted  to  R.  W.  Hamming  of  the  Mathematical  Ke- 
search  Department  w'ho  supervised  the  computation  of  the  seven  place 
tables,  to  Miss  R.  A.  Weiss  who  planned,  programmed,  ran,  and  checked 
the  IBM  computations  of  the  tables  and  to  Miss  J.  D.  Goeltz  who  com- 
puted the  ten-figure  accuracy  check  points  required  for  the  construction 
of  the  tables.  He  also  wishes  to  acknowledge  the  support  and  encourage- 
ment given  to  the  project  by  R.  L.  Dietzold  and  P.  H.  Richardson,  and 
the  continued  interest  and  helpful  comments  of  B.  A.  Kingsbury. 


^  Kingsbury,  B.  A.,  private  communication. 

'Murakami,  T.,  and  Corrington,  M.  S.,  Relation  Between  Amplitude  and 
Phase  in  Electrical  Networks,  R.C.A.  Review,  9,  pp.  602-631,  Dec,  1948. 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not 
Published  in  This  Journal 

Anderson,  P.  W./  and  Suhl,  H/ 

Instability  in  the  Motion  of  Ferromagnets  at  High  Microwave  Power 
Levels,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  100,  pp.  1788-1789,  Dec.  15, 
1955. 

Andrus,  J.,  see  Bond,  W.  L. 

I 

I  Beaciiell,  H.  C,  see  Veloric,  H.  S. 

i 

I  Beck,  A.  C.,^  and  Mandeville,  G.  D.^ 

I      Microwave  Traveling  Wave  Tube  Millimicrosecond  Pulse  Generators, 
I      I.R.E.  Trans.,  MTT-3,  pp.  48-51,  Dec,  1955. 

I 

I 

j  Benedict,  T.  S.^ 

Single-Crystal  Automatic  Diffractometer  —  Part  II,  Acta  Cryst.,  8, 
pp.  747-752,  Dec.  10,  1955. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Application  of  the  Fourier  Integral  in  Circuit  Theory  and  Circuit 
Problems,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  CT-2,  3,  pp.  237-243,  Sept.,  1955. 

Biondi,  F.  J.' 

Corrosion-Proofing  Electronic  Parts  Against  Ozone,  Ceramic  Age,  66, 
p.  39,  Oct.,  1955. 

Bond,  W.  L.^ 


! 


Single-Crystal  Automatic  Diffractometer — ^Part  I,  Acta  Cryst.,  8, 
pp.  741-746,  Dec.  10,  1955. 


'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

751 


752  the  bell  system  technical  journal,  may  1956 

Bond,  W.  L.,'  and  Andrus,  J/ 

Photographs  of  the  Stress  Field  Around  Edge  Dislocations,  Phys. 
Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  101,  p.  1211,  Feb.  1,  1950. 

Boyle,  W.  S.,  See  Gernier,  L.  H. 

Boyle,  W.  S.,^  and  Haworth,  F.  E/ 

Glow-to-Arc  Transitions,  Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.  935-938,  Feb.  1,  1950. 

Bozorth,  R.  M.^ 

The  Physics  of  Magnetic  Materials,  Elec.  Engg.,  75,  pp.  134-140, 
Feb.  1956. 

Bridgers,  H.  E.^ 

A  Modern  Semiconductor  —  Single  Crystal-Germanium,  Chem.  and 
Engg.  News,  34,  p.  220,  Jan.,  1956. 

BuRRUS,  C.  A.,^  and  Gordy,  W.^ 

Millimeter  and  Submillimeter  Wave  Spectroscopy,  Phys.  Rev.,  101, 
pp.  599-603,  Jan.  15,  1956. 

Chynoweth,  a.  G.  I 

Dynamic  Method  for  Measuring  the  Pyroelectric  Effect  with  Special 
Reference  to  Barium  Titanate,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  ])i).  78  84,  Jan., 
1956. 

Cutler,  C.  C.^ 

Spurious  Modulation  of  Electron  Beams,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  61-64, 
Jan.,  1956. 

Davis,  H.  M.,  see  Wernick,  J.  H. 

Duncan,  R.  A.,^  and  Stone,  J.  A.,  Jr.' 

a  Survey  of  the  Application  of  Ferrites  to  Inductor  Design,  Proc. 
I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  4-13,  Jan.,  1956. 


'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 
^  Duke  University. 


01 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  753 

Fehek,  G./  Fletcher,  R.  C./  and  Gere,  E.  A/ 

Exchange  Effects  in  Spin  Resonance  of  Impurity  Atoms  in  Silicon, 
Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  100,  pp.  1784-1785,  Dec.  15,  1955. 

Feldmann,  W.  L.,  see  Pearson,  G.  L. 

Fkaver,  D.  R.' 

Design  Principles  for  Junction  Transistor  Audio  Power  Amplifiers, 
l.R.E.  Tran.s.,  AU-3,  pp.  183-201,  Nov.-Dec,  1955. 

Flaschen,  S.  S.,^  and  Van  Uitert,  L.  G.' 

New  Low  Contact  Resistance  Electrode,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  Letter  to  the 
Editor,  27,  p.  190,  Feb.,  195(5. 

Fletcher,  R.  C.,  see  Feher,  G. 

Fry,  T.  C.^ 
Mathematics  as  a  Profession  Today  in  Industry,  Am.  ]\Iath.  Monthly, 

63,  pp.  71-80,  Feb.,  1956. 

Fuller,  C.  S.,  see  Reiss,  H. 

Geballe,  T.  H.,  see  Hrotowski,  H.  J. 

Gere,  E.  A.,  see  Feher,  G. 

Germer,  L.  H.,^  and  Boyle,  W.  S.^ 

Short  Arcs,  Nature,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  176,  p.  1019,  Nov.  26,  1955. 

Germer,  L.  H.,^  and  Boyle,  W.  S.^ 

Two  Distinct  Types  of  Short  Arcs,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  32-39,  Jan., 
1956. 

GlANOLA,  U.  F. 

Photovoltaic  Noise  in  Silicon  Broad  Area  p-n  Junctions,  .1.  Appl. 
Phys.,  27,  pp.  51  53,  Jan.,  1950. 

GoRDY,  W.,  see  Burrus,  C.  A. 
1  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


754  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

Hagelbarger,  D.  W.,  see  Pfann,  W.  G.;  Shannon,  C.  E.;  and  Wil- 
liams, H.  J. 

Hagstrum,  H.  D/ 

Electron  Ejection  from  Metals  by  Positive  Ions,  Appl.  Sci.  Res.  B5, 
Nos.  1-4,  pp.  16-17,  1955. 

Haworth,  F.  E.,  see  Boyle,  W.  S. 

Herring,  C.,^  and  Vogt,  E.^ 

Transport  and  Deformation  Potential  Theory  for  Many-Valley  Semi- 
conductors with  Anisotropic  Scattering,  Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.  944- 
961,  Feb.  1,  1956. 

Herrmann,  D.  B.,  see  Williams,  J.  C. 

Holden,  a.  N.,^  Merz,  W.  J.,^  Remeika,  J.  P.,'  and  Matthias,  B.  T.^ 

Properties  of  Guanidine  Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexahydrate  and  Some  of 
its  Isomorphs,  Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.  962-967,  Feb.  1,  1956. 

Horotowski,  H.  J.,^  Morin,  F.  J.,^  Geballe,  T.  H.,^  and  Wheatley, 
G.  H.' 

Hall  Effect  and  Conductivity  of  InSb,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  1672-1677, 
Dec.  15,  1955. 

Ingram,  S.  B. 

The  Graduate  Engineer  His  Training  and  Utilization  in  Industry 
Elec.  Engg.,  75,  pp.  167  170,  Feb.,  1956. 

Kaplan,  E.  L.^ 

Transformation  of  Stationary  Random  Sequences,  Mathematicai 
Scandinavica,  3,  FASCl,  pp.  127-149,  June,  1955. 

Lewis,  H.  W.^  ; 

Superconductivity  and  Electronic  Specific  Heat,  Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.^ 
939-940,  Feb.  1,  1956. 

Mandeville,  G.  D.,  see  Beck,  A.  C. 


1  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


TECHNICAL    PAPERS  755 

Matthias,  B.  T.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 
Merz,  W.  J.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 

Miller,  L.  E. 

Negative  Resistance  Regions  in  the  Collector  Characteristics  of  the 
Point-Contact  Transistor,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  65-72,  Jan.,  195G. 

Moll,  J.  L./ and  Ross,  I.  M.' 

The  Dependence  of  Transistor  Parameters  on  the  Distribution  of 
Base  Layer  Resistivity,  rioc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  72-78,  Jan.,  1950. 

Montgomery,  H.  C,  See  Pearson,  G.  L. 

iMoRiN,  F.  J.,  see  Hrotowski,  H.  J. 

MuMFORD,  W.  W.,^  and  Schaferman,  R.  L/ 

Data  on  the  Temperature  Dependence  of  X-Band  Fluorescent  Lamp 
Noise  Sources,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  MTT-3,  pp.  12-16,  Dec,  1955. 

Xesbitt,  E.  a.,  see  Williams,  H.  J. 

(  )lmstead,  p.  S.^ 

QC  Concepts  Useful  in  OR,  lud.  Qual.  Cent.,  12,  pp.  11,  14-17,  Oct., 
1955. 

<  )WENS,  C.  D.' 

Stability  Characteristics  of  Molybdenum  Permalloy  Powder  Cores, 
Elec.  Engg.,  74,  pp.  252-256,  Feb.,  1956. 

Pearson,  G.  L.,^  Montgomery,  H.  C.,^  and  Feldmann,  W.  L.^ 

Noise  in  Silicon  p-n  Junction  Photocells,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  91-92, 
Jan.,  1956. 

Pfann,  W.  G.,^  and  Hagelbarger,  D.  W.^ 

Electromagnetic  Suspension  of  a  Molten  Zone,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27, 
pp.  12-17,  Jan.,  1956. 


'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


756  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956  ^ 

QUINLAN,  A.  L.^  * 

Roll- Welding  Precious  Metals  for  Telephone  Contacts,  Elec.  Engg., 
75,  pp.  154-157,  Feb.,  1956. 

Reiss,  11.,^  and  Fuller,  C.  S.^ 

The  Influence  of  Holes  and  Electrons  on  the  Solubility  of  Lithium  in 
Boron-Doped  Silicon,  .J.  of  Metals,  12,  p.  276,  Feb.,  1956. 

Remeika,  J.  P.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 

Ross,  I.  M.,  see  Moll,  J.  L. 

ScHAFERMAN,  R.  L.,  See  Mumford,  W.  W. 

SCHAWLOW,  A.  L.^  I 

Structure  of  the  Intermediate  State  in  Superconductors,  Phys.  Rev., 
101,  pp.  573-580,  Jan.  15,  1956. 

ScHAWLow,  A.  L.,^  and  Townes,  C.  H.* 

Effect  on  X-Ray  Fine  Structure  of  Deviations  from  a  Coulomb  Field 
near  the  Nucleus,  Phys.  Rev.,  100,  pp.  1273-1280,  Dec.  1,  1955. 

Shannon,  C.  E.,^  and  Hagelbarger,  D.  W.^ 

Concavity  of  Resistance  Functions,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,   27,  pp.  42-43,  j 
Jan,  1956. 

SiMKiNS,  Q.  W.,^  and  Wogelsong,  J.  H.^ 

Transistor  Amplifiers  for  Use  in  a  Digital  Computer,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44, 
pp.  43-54,  Jan.,  195(). 

Snoke,  L.  R.^ 

Specific  Studies  on  the  Soil-Block  Procedure  for  Bioassay  of  Wood 
Preservatives,  Appl.  Mierubiology,  4,  pp.  21-31,  Jan.,  1956. 


i 


SOUTHWORTH,  G.  C.^ 

Early  History  of  Radio  Astronomy,  Sei.  Mo.,  82,  pp.  55-66,  Feb.,  1956.  |j 

^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 
■''  Western  Electric  Company. 
•*  Columbia  University. 


h 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  757 

Stone,  H.  A.,  see  Duncan,  R.  A. 
SuHL,  H.,  see  Anderson,  P.  W. 

Thomas,  E.  E/ 

Tin  Whisker  Studies  Observation  of  some  Hollow  Whiskers  and 
Some  Sharply  Irregular  External  Forms,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  Acta 
Met.,  4,  p.  94,  Jan.,  1956. 

TowNES,  C.  H.,  see  Schawlow,  A.  L. 

TOWNSEND,  M.  A.^ 

A  Hollow  Cathode  Glow  Discharge  with  Negative  Resistance,  Appl. 
Sci.  Research,  Sec.  B,  5,  pp.  75-78,  1955. 

\'aldes,  L.  B.^ 

Frequency  Response  of  Bipolar  Transistors  with  Drift  Fields,  Proc. 
I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  178-184,  Feb.,  1956. 

\'an  Uitert,  L.  G.,  see  Flaschen,  S.  S. 

\'eloric,  H.  S.,^  and  Beachell,  H.  C. 

Absorption  Isotherms,  Isobars  and  Isoteres  of  Diborane  on  Palladium 
on  Charcoal  and  Boron  Nitride,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  60,  p.  102,  Jan.,  1956. 

\'oGELSONG,  J.  H.,  see  Simkins,  Q.  W. 

\  ogt,  E.,  see  Herring,  C. 

W'eibel,  E.  S.' 

Strains  and  the  Energy  in  Thin  Elastic  Shells  of  Arbitrary  Shape  for 
Arbitrary  Deformation,  Zeitchrift  f.  Mathematik  and  Physik,  6,  pp. 
153-189,  May  25,  1955. 

W'krnick,  J.  H.,^  and  Davis,  H.  M.'' 

Preparation  and  Inspection  of  High-Purity  Copper  Single  Crystals, 
J.  Appl.  Pliys.,  27,  pp.  144-153,  Feb.,  1956. 


'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 
^  University  of  Delaware. 
^  Penn  State  University. 


758 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 


Wheatley,  G.  H.,  see  Hrotowski,  H.  J. 

Williams,  H.  J.,'  Heidenreich,  R.  D.,^  and  Nesbitt,  E.  A.^ 

Mechanism  by  which  Cobalt  Ferrite  Heat  Treats  in  a  Magnetic  Field,!: 
J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  85-89,  Jan.,  1956. 

Williams,  J.  C.,^  and  Herrmann,  D.  B. 

Surface  Resistivity  of  Non-Porous  Ceramic  and  Organic  Insulating' 
Materials  at  High  Humidity  with  Observations  of  Associated  Silver 
Migration,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  PGRQC-6,  pp.  11-20,  Feb.,  1956. 

Wood,  Mrs.  E.  A.' 

A  Heated  Sample-Holder  for  X-Ray  Diffractometer  Work,  Rev.  Sci.j 
Instr.,  27,  p.  60,  Jan.,  1956. 

^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


decent  Monographs  of  Bell  System  Technical 
Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal* 

Anderson,  P.  W.,  and  Hasegawa,  H. 

Considerations  on  Double  Exchange,  Monograph  2532. 

Baker,  W.  O.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

Barstow,  J.  M. 
The  ABC's  of  Color  Television,  Monograph  2529. 

Bemski,  G. 
Lifetime  of  Electrons  in  p-type  Silicon,  Monograph  2534. 

Bennett,  W.  R. 
Application  of  the  Fourier  Integral  in  Circuit  Theory,  Monograph  2533. 

Brattain,  W.  H.,  see  Pearson,  G.  L. 

Brown,  W.  L. 

Surface  Potential  and  Surface  Charge  Distribution  from  Semicon- 
ductor Field  Effect  Measurements,  Monograph  2501. 

Bullington,  K. 

Characteristics  of  Beyond-the-Horizon  Radio  Transmission,  Mono- 
graph 2494. 

Bullington,  K.,  Inkster,  W.  J.,  and  Durkee,  A.  L. 

Propagation  Tests  at  505  mc  and  4,090  mc  on  Beyond-Horizon  Paths, 
Monograph  2503. 

*  Copies  of  these  monographs  may  be  obtained  on  request  to  the  Publication 
Department,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  463  West  Street,  New  York  14. 
N.  Y.  The  numbers  of  the  monographs  should  be  given  in  all  requests. 

759 


760  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    MAY    1956 

DuRKEE,  A.  L.,  see  Biillington,  K. 
Freynik,  H.  S.,  see  Gohn,  G.  R. 

(Jkllkh,  S.,  and  Thurmond,  (■.  D.  j 

On  the  Question  of  the  Existence  of  a  Crystalline  SiO,  Monograph 
2530. 

Gohn,  G.  R.,  Guerard,  J.  P.,  and  Freynik,  H.  S. 

The   Mechnical   Properties   of   Wrought   Phosphor   Bronze   Alloys, 
Monograph  2531. 

I 
Guerard,  J.  P.,  see  Gohn,  G.  R.  ^' 

Hasegawa,  H.,  see  Anderson,  P.  W. 

Haynes,  J.  R.,  see  Hornbeck,  J.  A. 

Hornbeck,  J.  A.,  and  Haynes,  J.  R.  - 

Trapping  of  Minority  Carriers  in  Silicon,  Monograph  2368. 

Inkster,  W.  j.,  see  Bullington,  K. 

Lewis,  H.  W. 

Search  for  the  Hall  Effect  in  a  Superconductor.  II.  Theory,  Mono- 
graph 2523. 

LiNviLL,  J.  G.,  and  Mattson,  R.  H. 

Junction  Transistor  Blocking  Oscillators,  Monograph  2487. 

Logan,  R.  A. 

Precipitation  of  Copper  in  Germanium,  Monograph  2524. 

Logan,  R.  A.,  and  Schwartz,  M. 

Restoration  of  Resistivity  and  Lifetime  in  Heat-Treated  Germanium 
Monograph  2525. 

Mattson,  R.  H.,  see  Linvill,  J.  G. 


MONOGRAPHS  761 

Mays,  J.  M.,  see  Shulman,  R.  G. 

McCall,  D.  W.,  see  Shulman,  R.  (i. 

Moll,  J.  L. 
Junction  Transistor  Electronics,  Monograph  2537. 

Pearson,  G.  L.,  and  Brattain,  W.  H. 
History  of  Semiconductor  Research,  Monograph  2538. 

Sandsmark,  p.  I. 

ElHpticity   on   Dominant-Mode  Axial  Ratio   in  Nominally   Circiilar 
Waveguides,  Monograph  2539. 

Schwartz,  M.,  see  Logan,  R.  A. 

Shulman,  R.  G.,  Mays,  J.  M.,  and  McCall,  D.  W. 
Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  in  Semiconductors.  I,  Monograph  2528. 

Thurmond,  C.  D.,  see  Geller,  S. 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G. 

Low  Magnetic  Saturation  Ferrites  for  Microwave  Applications,  Mono- 
graph 2504. 

\ax  Uitert,  L.  G. 

Dc  Resistivity  in  the  Nickel  and  Nickel  Zinc  Ferrite  System,  Mono- 
graph 2540. 

:Weible,  E.  S. 

Vowel  Synthesis  by  Means  of  Resonant  Circuits,  Monograph  2541. 

WiNSLow,  F.  IL,  Baker,  W.  0.,  and  Yager,  W.  A. 
Odd  Electrons  in  Polymer  Molecules,  Monograph  2486, 

Vager,  W.  a.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H, 


Contributors  to  This  Issue 

Donald  C.  Bennett,  B.S.  1949  and  M.S.  1951,  Rensselaer  Poly- 
technic Institute;  Battelle  Memorial  Institute,  1951-1952;  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  1952-.  Mr.  Bennett  has  been  engaged  in  the  de- 
velopment of  processes  for  producing  single  crystals  suitable  for  use 
in  transistors.  He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Mining  and 
Metallurgical  Engineers. 

F.  G.  BuHRENDORF,  B.S.M.E.  and  M.E.,  Cooper  Union  Inst.  Tech. 
1925.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  1925-.  Mr.  Buhrendorf's  early  Labo- 
ratories work  included  the  design  of  switchboard  apparatus  and  sound 
recording  and  reproducing  equipment ;  among  the  latter  were  the  Mirro- 
phone  and  the  stereophonic  equipment  demonstrated  at  the  New  York 
World's  Fair.  During  World  War  II  he  was  concerned  with  the  design 
of  mechanical  components  of  a  number  of  radar  systems,  particularly 
antenna  drives  and  range  units.  After  the  war  he  resumed  his  work  on 
high-quality  sound  reproduction  and  more  recently  has  devoted  his 
efforts  to  the  design  of  magnetic  drum  units  for  digital  data  storage  and 
special  machinery  for  the  purification  and  production  of  single-crystal 
semiconductors.  He  is  a  New  York  State  Professional  Engineer. 

Calvin  S.  Fuller,  B.S.  1926  and  Ph.D.  1929,  University  of  Chicago. 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1930-.  His  early  work  was  on  organic  in- 
sulating material,  after  which  he  made  studies  of  plastics  and  synthetic 
rubber  including  investigations  of  the  molecular  structure  of  polymers 
and  the  development  of  plastics  and  rubbers.  Since  1948  Dr.  Fuller  has 
concentrated  on  semiconductor  research  and  the  development  of  semi- 
conductor devices.  His  work  led  to  a  techniciue  of  diffusing  impurities  -. 
into  the  surface  of  a  silicon  wafer,  a  preparation  basic  to  the  Bell  Solar  (j 
Battery  and  other  silicon  devices.  He  is  a  member  of  the  A.C.S.,  an 
associate  member  of  the  A.P.S.  and  a  member  of  the  A.A.A.S. 

H.  A.  Henning,  B.S.  in  ElcctrocluMuical  Engineering,  Pennsylvania 
State   College    1926;   Columbia   University    1930-33.    Bell   Telephone 

762 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO   THIS   ISSUE  763 

Laboratories,  1926-.  Mr.  Henning's  early  Laboratories  work  was  con- 
nected with  the  development  of  high-quality  sound  recording  and  re- 
producing equipment  and  techniques.  During  this  interval  he  developed 
the  9A  disc  phonograph  reproducer.  Other  pre-war  experience  included 
development  of  telephone  voice  recorders,  noise  reduction  studies  of  the 
dynamics  of  teletype  equipment,  and  design  of  coin  collector  slug  rejec- 
tors and  coin  disposal  relays.  During  World  War  II  he  was  concerned 
with  improvements  to  the  sound  power  telephone,  and  later  with  develop- 
ment of  specialized  magnetic  sound  recording- reproducing  systems. 
After  the  war  he  resumed  his  work  on  high  quality  sound  recording 
equipment  and  supervised  the  design  of  the  2A  lateral  disc  feedback 
recorder.  More  recently  he  has  been  concerned  with  the  principles  and 
design  of  magnetic  drum  digital  data  storage  and  apparatus.  He  is  cur- 
rently engaged  in  investigating  the  application  of  square  hysteresis 
loop  magnetic  cores  to  digital  computer  systems. 

David,  A.  Kleinman,  S.B.  in  Chemical  Engineering,  1946,  S.M.  in 
Mathematics,  1947,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology;  Ph.D.  in 
physics,  Brown  LTniversity,  1952.  Dr.  Kleinman  joined  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories  at  Murray  Hill  in  Jul}^  1953.  Since  then  he  has  studied 
theory  of  transistor  devices  and  has  been  engaged  in  research  in  the  band 

■theory  of  solids  in  the  Solid  State  Electronics  Research  Department. 

I  He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Physical  Society. 

F.  J.  MoRiN,  B.S.  and  M.S.,  University  of  New  Hampshire,  1939  and 
1940;  University  of  Wisconsin,  1940-1941;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1041-.  During  World  War  II,  Mr.  Morin  was  involved  in  research  on 
j  elemental  and  oxide  semiconductors  and  the  development  of  thermistor 
materials.  Since  that  time  he  has  worked  on  fundamental  investigations 
into  the  mechanism  of  conduction  in  silicon,  germanium  and  oxide  semi- 
-conductors. Mr.  Morin  is  a  member  of  the  American  Chemical  Society 
and  the  American  Physical  Society. 
i 

0.  J.  Murphy,  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  University  of  Texas, 
1927;  Columbia  University,  1928-31.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1927-.  Mr.  Murphy's  early  Laboratories  projects  included  studies  of 
\'oice-operated  switching  devices,  effects  of  transmission  delay  on  two- 
Way  telephone  conversation,  and  voice-frequency  signaling  systems. 
1  )uring  World  War  II  he  was  concerned  with  design  and  development  of 
ihe  M-9  electrical  gun  director  and  related  projects.  After  the  war  he 
resumed  his  research  work  on  signaling  systems  and  more  recently  has 


764       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  MAY  1956 

concentrated  on  the  design  of  magnetic  drum  digital  data  storage  ap- 
paratus and  circuits.  He  is  a  member  of  the  A.I.E.E.,  a  senior  member 
of  the  T.R.E.,  and  is  a  licensed  professional  engineer. 

M.  B.  Prince,  A.B.,  Temple  University,  1947;  Ph.D.,  Massachusetts 
Institute  of  Technology,  1951;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1951-1956; 
National  Semiconductor  Products,  1956-.  Between  1949-51  he  was  a 
research  assistant  at  the  Research  Laboratory  of  Electronics  at  M.LT, 
where  he  was  concerned  with  cryogenic  research.  At  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  Dr.  Prince  was  concerned  with  the  physical  properties  of 
semiconductors  and  semiconductor  devices  and  was  associated  with  the 
development  of  silicon  devices,  including  the  Bell  Solar  Battery  and  the 
silicon  power  rectifier.  Dr.  Prince  is  a  member  of  the  LR.E.,  the  Ameri- 
can Physical  Society,  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Howard  Reiss,  B.A.,  New  York  University,  1943;  Ph.D.,  Columbia 
University,  1949;  Instructor  and  Assistant  Professor  in  Chemistry, 
Boston  University,  1949-51;  Head  of  the  Fundamental  Research  Sec- 
tion, Celanese  Corporation,  1951-52;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1952-.  Dr.  Reiss  is  engaged  in  the  theoretical  chemistry  of  defects  in 
semiconductors.  He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Chemical  Society, 
the  American  Physical  Society,  Sigma  Xi  and  Phi  Lamda  Upsilon. 

Baldwin  Sawyer,  B.E.,  Yale  University,  1943;  D.Sc,  Carnegie  Insti- 
tute of  Technology,  1952;  Manhattan  Project,  University  of  Chicago, 
1943-1946;  Instructor  and  Research  Associate  in  Physics,  Carnegie  In- 
stitute of  Technology,  1948-1951;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1951- 
Dr.  Sawyer's  first  work  at  the  Laboratories  was  on  the  development  of 
semiconductor  devices,  especially  the  silicon  alloy  junction  diode.  Since 
1953  he  has  been  in  charge  of  a  group  at  Allentown  concerned  with  the 
growth,  measurement  and  characterization  of  germanium  and  silicon 
crystals  for  use  in  semiconductor  devices.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Ameri- 
can Physical  Society,  the  American  Institute  of  Mining  and  Metallurgi- 
cal Engineers,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  and  an  associate  of  the  LR.E. 

Donald  E.  Thomas,  B.S.  in  E.E.,  Pennsylvania  State  University, 
1929;  M.A.,  Columbia  LTniversity,  1932;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1929-.  Mr.  Thomas  specialized  in  the  development  of  repeatei'ed  sub- 
marine cable  systems  until  1940  when  he  became  engaged  in  the  de\'elop- 
ment  of  sea  and  airborne  radar.  In  1942  he  entered  military  service  where 
he  was  active  in  electronic  countermeasures  research  and  development. 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO   THIS   ISSUE  765 

Following  the  war  he  took  part  in  the  development  and  installation  of 

'  the  first  deep-sea  repeatered  submarine  telephone  cable  system  between 

i  Key  West  and  Havana.  During  this  period  he  also  served  as  a  civilian 

!  member  of  the  Department  of  Defense's  Research  and  Development 

Board  Panel  on  Electronic  Countermeasures.  At  present  Mr.  Thomas  is 

engaged  in  characterization  and  feasibility  evaluation  of  research  models 

of  semiconductor  devices.  He  is  a  senior  member  of  the  I.R.E.  and  a 

member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Phi  Kappa  Phi. 


rHE      BELL      SYSTEM 

Jechnical  journa^ 

mOTEH    TO    THE    SC  I  E  N  T  I  FlC^^r^    AND    ENGINEERING 
JPECTS    OF    ELECTRICAL    C  OM  M  U  N  IC  AT  Io4<C/>j, 

EJ 

^(JQ  .J 

C-UME  XXXV  JULY     1956  NVMi*R4 


The  Effect  of  Surface  Treatments  on  Point-Contact  Transistors 

J.  H.  FORSTER  AND  L.  E.  MILLER   767 

The  Design  of  Tetrode  Transistor  Amplifiers 

J.  G.  LINVILL  AND  L.  G.  SCHIMPF   813 

The  Nature  of  Power  Saturation  in  Traveling  Wave  Tubes 

C.  C.  CUTLER  841 

The  Field  Displacement  Isolator  s.  weisbaum  and  h.  seidel  877 

Transmission  Loss  Due  to  Resonance  of  Loosely-Coupled  Modes  in  a 
Multi-Mode  System  a.  p.  king  and  e.  a.  marcatili  899 

Measurement  of  Atmospheric  Attentuation  at  Millimeter  Wave- 
lengths A.  B.  CRAWFORD  AND  D.  C,  HOGG   907 

A  New  Interpretation  of  Information  Rate  j.  l,  kelly,  jr.  917 

Automatic  Testing  of  Transmission  and  Operational  Functions 
of  Intertoll  Trunks 

H.  H.  FELDER,  a.  j.  PASCARELLA  AND  H.  F.  SHOFFSTALL   927 

Intertoll  Trunk  Net  Loss  Maintenance  Under  Operator  Distance 
and  Direct  Distance  Dialing 

H.  H.  FELDER  AND  E,  N.  LITTLE   955 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal 

973 

Recent  Bell  System  Monographs 

979 

Contributors  to  This  Issue 

V 

985 

COPYRIGHT  1954  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


ADVISORY  BOARD 

F.  R.  KAPPEL,  President,  Western  Electric  Company 

M.  J.  KELLY,  President,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 

E.  J.  McNEELY,  Executive  Vice  President,  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

EDITORIAL    COMMITTEE 


B.  McMillan,  Chairman 

A.  J.  BUSCH 
A.  C.  DICKIESON 
R.  L.  DIETZOLD 
K.  B.  GOULD 
E.  I.  GREEN 


R.  K.  HONAMAN 
H.  R.  HUNTLEY 

F.  R.   LACK 
J.  R.  PIERCE 
H.  V.  SCHMIDT 

G.  N.  THAYER 


EDITORIAL    STAFF 

J.  D.  TEBO,  Editor 

M.E.  STRiEBY,  Managing  Editor 

R.  L.  SHEPHERD,  Production  Editor 


t 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a  year 
by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  195  Broadway,  New  York 
7,  N.  Y.  Cleo  F.  Craig,  President;  S.  Whitney  Landon,  Secretary;  John  J  Scan- 
Ion,  Treasurer.  Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $3.00  per  year.  Single  copies  are 
75  cents  each.  The  foreign  postage  is  65  cents  per  year  or  11  cents  per  copy.  Printed  , 
in  U.  S.  A.  § 


THE   BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XXXV  JULY  1956  number  4 

Copyright  1956,  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

The  Effect  of  Surface  Treatments  on 

Point-Contact  Transistor 

Characteristics 

By  J.  H.  FORSTER  and  L.  E.  MILLER 

(Manuscript  received  January  23,  1956) 

A  description  is  given  of  the  electrical  properties  of  formed  point  con- 
facts  on  germanium.  A  useful  technique  for  observation  of  the  equipotentials 
surrounding  such  contacts  is  described.  The  contrasting  properties  of  donor- 
free  and  donor-doped,  contacts,  used  as  diodes  or  transistor  collectors  are 
emphasized. 

It  is  shown  that  unformed  point  contacts  {which  have  electrical  properties 
largely  determined  by  a  surface  barrier  layer) ,  may  exhibit  analogous  dif- 
ferences. Such  changes  are  produced  by  chemical  treatments  calcidated  to 
influence  properties  of  a  soluble  germanium  oxide  film  on  the  surface. 

The  above  information  is  applied  to  a  study  of  transistor  forming  as  it 
is  done  in  present  point-contact  transistor  processing.  It  is  shown  that  high 
yields  from  the  forming  process  can  be  expected  on  oxidized  surfaces,  and 
(hat  chemical  ivashes  which  remove  soluble  germanium  oxide  drastically 
lower  forming  yields.  These  and,  other  effects  are  evaluated  as  sources  of 
variability  in  forming  yield. 

Table  of  Contents 

I 

[l .  Introduction 768 

2.  Pro]ierties  of  Formed  Point  Contacts 770 

I      2.1  Effects  of  Electrical  Forming  on  Point  Contacts 770 

1     2.2  Donor-Free  and  Donor-Doped  Contacts 774 

767 


768  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JULY    195G 


2.2.1  Potential  Probes 774 

2.2.2  Use  of  the  Copper  Plating  Technique 776 

2.3  Under-Formed  and  Over-Formed  Contacts 781 

3.  Properties  of  Unformed  Point  Contacts 783 

3.1  Physical  Properties  of  Metal -Semiconductor  Contacts 783 

3.2  Experimental  Procedures 785 

3.3  Experimental  Results 786 

3.3.1  Unformed  Transistors  on  Superoxol-Etched  Surfaces 786  ' 

3.3.2  Unformed  Transistors  on  CP4-Etched  Surfaces 789 

3.3.3  Diode  Characteristics  on  Electro-Etched  Surfaces 789 

3.3.4  Output  Characteristic  Anomalies 789 

3.3.5  Floating  Potential  Measurements 790  '■ 

3.3.6  Contamination  of  Collector  Points  and  Surfaces 792 

3.4  Discussion  of  Experimental  Results 794 

3.4.1  Effects  of  the  Chemical  Ti-eatment  on  the  Superoxol-Etched 
Surfaces    794 

3.4.2  CP4-Etched  Surfaces 795  : 

4.  Relation  of  Germanium  Surface  Properties  to  Transistor  Forming 796 

4.1  Pilot  Production  Problems 796 

4.2  Experimental  Results 797 

4.2.1  Pilot  Process  Forming  Yields 797 

4.2.2  Relation    of    Unformed    Diode    Characteristics    to    Transistor 

"Formability " 801 

4.2.3  Controlled  Ambient  Experiments 804 

4.2.4  A  Statistical  Survey  Experiment  on  Transistor  Forming 805 

4.2.5  Effect  of  Contamination  Before  Etching 806  ' 

4.3  Conclusions 807  < 

5.  General  Concluding  Remarks 808 

5.1  Point-Contact  Transistors  with  High  Current  Gain 809 

5.2  Current  Multiplication  in  Unformed  Transistors 809  ' 

5.3  Surface  Properties  and  Transistor  Forming 810  , 

1.    INTRODUCTION  j 

The  point-contact  transistor,  on  the  basis  of  several  years  use  in  the  I 
field  in  Bell  System  applications,  has  proved  itself  to  be  rugged  and  de-  ■ 
pendable.  For  certain  military  applications,  a  lasting  demand  exists  for 
high-speed  point-contact  transistors.  The  adaptation  of  cartridge  type 
units  to  a  hermetically  sealed  structure  has  been  completed,  with  further 
benefits  to  reliability.  To  date,  the  point-contact  transistor  is  one  of 
the  few  transistors  to  successfully  pass  all  military  specifications  for 
shock,  vibration,  and  high  acceleration.  Thus,  although  there  are  at 
present  limitations  to  the  electrical  characteristics  that  can  be  built 
into  a  point-contact  transistor  which  make  it  unsuitable  for  use  in  some 
switching  circuits,  there  are  many  applications  in  which  this  type  of 
transistor  can  give  consistent  and  reliable  performance.  In  fact,  applica- 
tions exist  w^herein  the  specific  requirements  are  uniquely  satisfied  by 
the  point-contact  transistor. 

However,  the  basic  operational  principles  of  this  kind  of  device  arc 
not  as  well  understood  as  would  be  desirable  for  facilitating  develop- 
mental studies  for  manufacture.  Although  considerable  effort  has  been 


I 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  769 

expended  towards  the  analysis  and  understanding  of  the  physical  mecha- 
nisms of  the  point-contact  transistor  since  its  announcement  in  1948,  a 
complete  design  theory  for  these  transistors  is  not  available.  This  lack 
probably  I'esults  partially  from  a  more  general  interest  in  the  readily 
designable  junction  transistor  types,  and  partially  from  the  relative 
complexity  of  the  device  itself.  Actual!}^  the  physical  mechanisms  which 
account  for  the  operation  of  this  device  have  their  counterparts  in  at 
least  three  basically  unique  devices:  the  point  diode,  the  junction  tran- 
sistor, and  the  filamentary  transistor. 

Thus,  although  the  empirical  knowledge  of  point-contact  transistor 
design  and  operation  is  large  enough  to  allow  a  reasonable  degree  of 
designability,  and  manufacture  of  these  transistors  in  large  quantities  is 
possible,  there  are,  from  time  to  time,  manufacturing  problems  which 
are  often  difficult  to  solve  without  sound  theoretical  understanding  of 
the  physical  mechanisms  which  make  the  device  work. 

This  article  is  concerned  with  describing  the  results  of  a  general  study 
of  the  physical  properties  of  a  few  specific  kinds  of  point  contacts.  The 
kinds  of  contact  studied  have  been  those  of  specific  interest  to  those 
concerned  with  manufacture  and  processing  of  point-contact  transis- 
tors. This  investigation  was  conducted  in  parallel  with  the  final  develop- 
ment for  manufacture  of  the  hermetically  sealed  point-contact  transis- 
tor. The  study  of  these  properties  has  led  to  practical  solutions  of  several 
problems  encountered  during  manufacture  of  point-contact  transistors, 
and  has  provided  experimental  data  which  is  of  interest  in  consideration 
of  the  basic  physical  mechanisms  involved  in  the  operation  of  the  point- 
contact  transistor. 

The  work  to  be  described,  primarily  experimental  in  nature,  follows 
in  Sections  2,  3  and  4.  In  section  2,  the  properties  of  formed,  or  electri- 
cally pulsed  point  contacts,  and  their  relation  to  the  source  of  output 
characteristic  anomalies  often  responsible  for  lowering  forming  yields 
in  point-contact  transistor  production  is  discussed.  The  properties  of 
point  contacts  which  have  received  no  electrical  forming  in  the  conven- 
tional sense  are  considered  in  section  3.  The  electrical  properties  of  these 
contacts,  used  as  diodes  or  transistor  collectors,  are  shown  to  be  de- 
I  pendent  on  chemical  history  of  the  etched  germanium  surface.  Thus 
I  "chemical  forming"  of  point  contacts  is  possible.  Section  4  deals  with 
application  of  these  results  to  forming  problems  which  arise  during 
manufacture  of  point-contact  transistors.  The  important  relation  be- 
tween the  chemical  history  of  the  surface  and  the  forming  on  that  sur- 
face is  considered. 


i 


770       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 
2.  PROPERTIES  OF  FORMED  POINT  CONTACTS 

2.1  Effects  of  Electrical  Forming  on  Point  Contacts 

The  simplest  form  of  point-contact  transistor  collector  is  a  metal  to 
semiconductor  contact  which  has  not  been  subjected  to  excessive  power 
dissipation  either  in  short  high  energy  pulses,  or  in  the  form  of  more 
prolonged  aging  at  lower  power  levels.  Such  contacts  will  be  referred  to 
as  vuiformed  contacts,  and  their  properties  will  be  discussed  in  detail  in 
Section  3.  Unformed  point-contact  transistors  sometimes  exhibit  power 
gain,  but  in  general  they  are  not  suitable  for  use  as  active  devices  be- 
cause the  gain,  although  it  may  be  highly  variable  from  unit  to  unit,  is 
usually  low.  The  electrical  characteristics  of  such  contacts  depend  on  a 
metal-semiconductor  contact  at  the  semiconductor  surface,  and  control 
of  these  properties  requires  exacting  control  of  surface  preparation,  sur- 
rounding ambient,  and  mechanical  stability  of  the  point. 

In  early  experiments,  Brattain  used  electrical  forming  to  improve 
both  the  power  gain  and  stability  of  the  transistor.  For  present  purposes, 
the  process  of  electrical  forming  will  be  defined  as  the  passage  of  a  short 
pulse  of  reverse  current  through  a  point  contact  which  produces  perma- 
nent changes  in  the  electrical  properties  of  the  contact.  This  is  usually 
accomplished  by  charging  a  condenser  to  several  hundred  volts,  and] 
subsequently  discharging  it  through  a  resistor  in  series  with  the  transis- 
tor collector.  Bardeen  and  Pfann,"  investigating  electrical  forming  of 
phosphor  bronze  points  on  etched  germanium  surfaces,  indicate,  as  a 
possible  explanation  of  their  data,  that  the  forming  pulse  changes  the 
height  of  the  potential  barrier  at  the  germanium  surface.  This  would,  in 
absence  of  large  surface  conductivity,  increase  the  reverse  current 
through  the  point  and  increase  the  efficiency  of  hole  collection  by  the 
point.^  Thus,  the  formed  point  may,  according  to  theory,  act  as  a  col- 
lector with  a  current  multiplication  (a)  greater  than  unity.  Thermal 
and  potential  probing  of  an  ?i-germanium  surface  under  a  formed  phos- 
phor bronze  point  indicates,  according  to  Valdes,  that  an  appreciable 
volume  of  germanium  is  converted  to  p-type  conduction.  Thus,  the 
reverse  current  through  a  formed  point  probably  depends  on  the  char- 
acteristics of  a  p-n  junction  a  small  distance  from  the  point,  rather  than 
on  a  potential  barrier  at  the  germanium  surface. 

A  characteristic  of  the  point-contact  transistor  is  that  the  current 
gain  can  be  substantially  greater  than  unity.  The  current  gain,  a,  i^^ 
usually  defined  as  the  current  multiplication  at  constant  voltage,  that 
is: 

dl 


a  = 


die 


i 


(1)1 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  771 

where  /c  and  le  are  the  collector  and  emitter  currents.  The  a  can  be  con- 
sidered as  the  product  of  three  terms,  that  is: 

a  =  aSy  (2) 

where  7  and  /i  represent  the  injection  efficiency  and  transport  factor 
respectively  for  minority  carriers.  The  term  a^-  is  the  "intrinsic"  current 
multiplication  of  the  collector  itself.  As  mentioned  above,  there  are 
theoretical  reasons  to  account  for  an  ai  as  large  as  (1  -f  h),  where  h  is 
the  ratio  tin/y^p  of  the  mobilities  of  electrons  and  holes,  and  thus  the 
term  ai  may  be  roughly  as  large  as  3.1.  The  average  current  gain,  a, 
taken  over  a  large  interval  of  emitter  current,  is  seldom  found  to  be 
greater  than  this  value,  and  is  usually  about  2.5.  However,  the  small 
signal  a  at  low  emitter  current  usually  is  found  to  be  considerably  larger 
than  3.1. 

Several  mechanisms  have  been  proposed  to  account  for  this  excess 
current  gain  at  low  emitter  bias  in  formed  transistors.  The  most  generally 
known  of  these  are  the  p-n  hook  hypothesis  and  the  trapping  model.  ' 

The  experiments  to  be  described  in  this  section  will  be  concerned  pri- 
marily with  the  characteristics  of  formed  points  as  transistor  collectors, 
and  thus  with  the  transport  factor  /S.  The  subject  of  the  origin  of  the 
intrinsic  «»■  will  be  discussed  further  in  a  later  section. 

The  experiment  of  Valdes  indicates  that  the  properties  of  a  formed 
point  contact  depend  on  the  physical  properties  of  a  small  region  of  ger- 
manium near  the  point,  produced  by  impurity  diffusion  from  the  point 
or  imperfections  introduced  during  the  formmg  pulse.  A  highly  idealized 
representation  of  the  physical  situation  is  shown  in  Fig.  1 .  This  is  a  radial 
model  of  a  formed  point  contact  on  a  semi-infinite  block  of  n-germanium 
(respectively  p) ,  with  a  hemispherical  p-layer  (radius  c:^  ro) .  The  electron 
and  hole  concentrations  in  the  formed  layer  near  the  junction  are  desig- 
nated as  Up  and  p.  If  a  reverse  bias  Vc  is  applied  to  the  point,  a  potential 
difference  F(ri)  —  F(r2)  =  Vj  results  from  the  resistance  of  the  junction 
at  ro .  For  r  ^  ro  ,  at  distances  well  outside  ?'o ,  the  potential  V{r)  and 
the  magnitude  of  the  field  E(r)  are  given  by 

where  /  is  the  total  current  through  the  point.  For 

I  Fo  -  V(n)  I  «  1  F^  I,  V{r2)  ^V,-Vj, 


772 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


and  the  junction  resistance  limits  the  magnitude  of  the  drift  field  that 
can  be  set  up  near  the  point.  For  example,  if  the  lifetime  t„  of  electrons 
in  the  p-layer^  is  substantially  lower  than  Tp  ,  that  of  holes  in  the  ger- 
manium bulk,  the  reverse  current  density  across  the  junction  can  be 
increased  by  an  increase  in  Up  ,  and  junction  resistance  lowered. 

Pfann  reports  a  substantial  mcrease  in  the  reverse  current  of  formed 
point  contacts  with  donor  concentration  of  the  point  wire.  The  increase 
in  rip  will  depend  on  the  distribution  of  donors  in  the  p-layer  after  the 
forming  pulse.  A  high  donor  concentration  near  the  collector  point  may 


-V, 


(r) 


\/ 

Vc 

V^ 

^(H)  f 

^^ 

X) 

-V2) 

r 

1 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

s 

r, 
1 

r^                ~~ 

1 

(b) 
Fig.  1  —  Formed  point  contact  under  reverse  bias  —  schematic  representation. 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS  773 

form  an  7i-type  inversion  layer  under  the  point  (p-n  hook)  which,  when 
the  point  is  under  reverse  bias,  acts  as  an  electron  emitter.  Such  a  situa- 
tion might  arise  as  a  result  of  diffusion  of  impurities  from  the  collector 
point  at  the  high  temperature  reached  during  the  forming  pulse.  An 
acceptor  element,  such  as  copper,  with  a  high  diffusion  coefficient 
might  penetrate  substantially  farther  into  the  germanium  than  donor 
elements  such  as  phosphorous  or  antimony^^  with  lower  diffusion  con- 
stants. Thus,  the  donor  concentration  near  the  point  might  be  substan- 
tially higher  than  the  acceptor  concentration  if  the  solubility  of  the 
acceptor  element  is  low. 

On  the  other  hand,  an  appreciable  number  of  donor  atoms  may  pene- 
trate the  germanium  as  far  as  do  the  acceptors.  Thus,  the  equilibrium 
value  of  Wp  may  be  increased  simply  by  decreasing  the  effective  concentra- 
tion of  acceptors  in  the  p-layer.  Such  a  case  might  arise  when  a  collector 
point  such  as  copper  is  doped  with  a  suitable  amount  of  a  donor  element 
with  a  large  diffusion  coefficient  and  limited  solubility. 

The  observation  of  regions  of  melted  germanium^  under  heavily 
formed  points  gives  evidence  for  a  somewhat  different  interpretation  of 
the  forming  process.  It  has  been  suggested  that  forming  is  essentially 
a  remelt  process.  For  example,  forming  of  a  phosphor-bronze  point  may 
produce  a  copper-germanium  eutectic,  allowing  the  introduction  of  a 
sizeable  phosphorus  concentration  in  the  remelt  region  which  is  main- 
tained after  freezing.  Thus  the  depth  of  penetration  of  the  donor  ele- 
ment depends  upon  the  size  of  the  remelt  region,  and  the  penetration  of 
the  acceptor  element  depends  upon  its  solid  state  diffusion  coefficient. 
This  mechanism  can  lead  either  to  the  formation  of  a  p-n  hook,  or  at 
least  to  a  Iyer  of  p-germanium  with  a  high  equilibrium  electron  concen- 
tration. 

Whatever  the  reason  for  the  decrease  in  resistance  of  the  collector 
barrier,  if  it  is  sufficient,  the  magnitude  of  E(r)  for  r  >  r^  can  be  increased 
by  forming  to  sufficient  value  to  ensure  efficient  collection  of  holes  and 
a  transport  factor  /3  close  to  unity. 

It  would  then  be  expected  that  for  a  formed  donor-free  point,  such 
as  the  beryllium-copper  alloy  points  often  used  as  unformed  emitters, 
the  formed  p-region  would  have  a  high  acceptor  concentration,  n^  would 
be  small,  and  under  reverse  bias,  the  magnitude  of  V j  would  be  large, 
with  I  /co  I  ,  I  V{r^  I  ,  and  average  a  small,  [solid  curve.  Fig.  1(b).  On 
the  other  hand,  a  formed  phosphor  bronze  point  of  the  kind  conven- 
tionally used  to  make  transistor  collectors,  should  exhibit  under  reverse 
bias,  a  lesser  magnitude  of  V j  ,  with  |  /eo  |  ,  |  Vir^)  \  ,  and  a  as  much  as 
an  order  of  magnitude  larger,  (dashed  line  in  Fig.  1(b)]. 


774  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

2.2  Donor-Free  and  Donor-Doped  Contacts 

The  qualitative  picture  of  the  conventional  formed  contact  given 
above  has  been  substantially  supported  by  the  work  of  Valdes,  who  ob- 
served a  large  increase  in  floating  potential  near  the  reverse  biased  col- 
lector after  the  forming  pulse  and  a  substantial  p-region  in  the  bulk  of 
the  germanium  after  forming. 

Experiments  have  been  directed  to  a  comparison  of  the  properties  as 
diodes  and  collectors,  between  two  kinds  of  points.  Phosphor  bronze 
points  of  the  type  used  as  transistor  collectors,  and  beryllium  copper 
points,  normally  used  as  emitters,  were  investigated.  Thus  a  direct  com- 
parison can  be  made  between  donor-doped  and  donor-free  points  which 
have  been  given  similar  forming  pulses.  The  forming  pulses  were  of  the 
capacitor  discharge  type,  with  voltage  and  RC  values  similar  to  those 
used  in  conventional  transistor  forming.  The  points  used  were  of  the 
cantilever  variety,  and  the  n-germanium  was  zone-leveled  material  in 
the  3  to  4  ohm-cm  range.  Two  points  were  supported  in  a  double-ended 
micro-manipulator  which  allowed  freedom  of  movement  in  3  dimensions 
for  each  point. 

2.2.1  Potential  Probes 

Conventionally,  point-contact  transistors  are  made  on  a  superoxol- 
etched  wafer.  This  etch  leaves  a  rough  surface  which  is  unsuitable  for 
accurate  potential  probing.  Some  measurements  were  made  of  the  float- 
ing potentials  on  this  kind  of  surface,  but  accurate  results  were  difficult  | 
to  obtain.  In  a  later  section  it  is  shown  that  the  kind  of  etch  used  in 
surface  preparation  can  have  profound  effects  on  the  degree  of  forming 
obtained.  However,  it  is  shown  that  forming  characteristics  of  an  "aged" 
CP4-etched  surface  are  quite  similar  to  the  superoxol  surface.  Thus  this 
kind  of  surface  was  used,  since  its  topographical  uniformity  allows  very 
reproducible  results  in  the  measurement  of  floating  potentials. 

Fig.  2  is  a  comparison  of  the  floating  potentials  for  the  two  kinds  of 
transistor  points  examined.  The  log-log  plot  shows  the  magnitude  of  the 
floating  potential,  Vp  ,  near  the  reverse  biased  collector  as  a  function  of 
r,  the  distance  of  the  probe  from  the  collector  measured  between  centers 
of  the  two  points.  The  bars  represent  the  uncertainty  in  measurement  of 
the  linear  distance.  Three  curves  are  shown.  The  lowest  Curve  I  repre- 
sents the  potential  near  a  Be-Cu  point  formed  with  a  conventional  form- 
ing pulse.  Curve  II  is  a  plot  of  the  potential  near  a  similarly  formed  phos- 
phor bronze  point,  while  Curve  III  represents  data  obtained  using  such 
a  point  more  heavily  formed.  In  all  cases  the  magnitude  of  the  floating 
potential  decreases  inversely  as  the  distance  from  the  point,  and  is  given 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS 


775 


2.0 


1.0 
0.8 

0.6 
0.5 

0.4 
0.3 

0.2 


0.1 

0.08 

1- 

0.06 

n 

0.05 

> 

z 

0.04 

> 

1 

0.03 

0.02 


0.01 
0.008 

0.006 
0.005 

0.004 
0.003 

0.002 


0.001 


- 

\ 

- 

III,Ic(0. -'0)  =-1.5M 

\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

i 

V 

- 

\ 

K^^ 

V 

- 

k: 

1 

\ 

HJc^Oi  "10^  =-1.0  MA  ^ 

>1 

S, 

\ 

^^ 

s. 

H 

H 

^J 

■1 

^^ 

S 

H 

\ 

- 

^ 

- 

I,lc(0, -10)  =  -0.08MaN 

1 — I 

-^, 

H^ 

\ 

\ 

■% 

\ 

\ 

1 

1 

^ 

1 

■0^ 

O.l 


0.2         0.3     0.4         0.6     0.8    1.0  2  3        4       5     6         8      10 

r    IN    MILS 


20 


Fig.  2  —  Comparison  of  floating  potentials  near  formed  points. 

by  pI/2Trr  where  p  is  Avell  A\ithiii  the  range  of  the  measured  resistivity 
(3-4  ohm-cm). 

Thus  the  effect  of  adding  the  donor  to  the  point  wire  is  to  increase 
the  reverse  current  and  increase  the  floating  potential  near  the  point  by 
an  order  of  magnitude.  One  would  therefore  expect  an  accompanying 


776       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

5.0 


4.5 


4.0 


3.5 


3.0 


< 

J  2-5 


2.0 

1.5 

1.0 

0.5 
0 


[ 

Vc  =-10  VOLTS 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

N 

II,HF -UNFORMED 

' 

-        J 

k 

I.HjOs-UNFORMED 

Y \ ? \ ^'— 

— — « 1 

0.5  1.0  1.5         2.0  2.5        3.0         3.5         4.0        4.5 

CURRENT,  le,  IN    MILLIAMPERES 


5.0 


Fig.  3  —  Comparison  of  alpha-emitter-current  characteristics  of  formed  points.    ,'  I 

increase  in  the  drift  field  near  the  point  and  a  corresponding  increase  in 
a.  Fig.  3  indicates  that  such  is  the  case.  The  small  signal  a  is  plotted  as 
a  function  of  emitter  current  in  Curves  I  and  II.  The  point  spacing  in 
this  case  is  2.5  mils.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  peak  at  low  emitter 
currents  is  present  in  both  cases,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  presence  of  a 
p-n  hook  is  not  likely  when  the  Be-Cu  point  is  formed. 

It  is  thus  apparent  that  the  forming  the  Be-Cu  point  produces  a  struc- 
ture which  more  closely  resembles  a  p-n  junction.  The  effect  of  adding 
the  donor  is  to  reduce  the  resistance  of  the  junction.  Further  contrast 
between  these  two  kinds  of  contacts  is  demonstrated  by  comparing  for- 
ward currents  through  the  contacts  and  their  capacities.  In  Table  I,  a 
summary  of  all  the  contrasting  properties  is  given.  All  values  quoted 
are  representative  values. 

2.2.2     Use  of  the  Copper  Plating  Technique 

During  the  investigation  of  these  contact  properties,  an  interesting  way 
of  illustrating  their  physical  properties  was  developed.  This  technique, 
borrowed  from  junction  transistor  technology,  can  be  used  to  identify 
visually  the  boundary  between  the  formed  region  and  the  bulk  genua-  f^ 
nium  in  a  metallographic  section  of  a  point-contact  transistor.  It  further 
appears  that  modifications  of  the  technique  will  enable  determination  of  k: 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


777 


Table  1 


Contact 

Formed  Be  Cu 

Formed  Phosphor  Bronze 

/CO    —10)  ma   

-0.01  ma 
-1.0  ma 

2.8  ma 

0.25 

0.1 

3.0  MMf 

-   1.0  ma 

T„(6    —5)  ma 

-14.0  ma 

7e(0,  +0.5)  ma 

Peak  value  of  a 

0.8 
4.5 

a  (5.0,  -10) 

Capacity  (Fc  =  -5F) 

1.7 

<    0.1  jUMf 

the  equipotentials  surrounding  a  collector  or  emitter  point  under  bias, 
and  visualization  of  current  flow  patterns  in  point  contact  transistors 
under  bias  operating  conditions. 

Use  of  this  technique  in  identification  of  formed  transistor  properties 
is  quite  simple.  A  transistor  container  (including  only  the  completed 
header,  wafer,  and  point-contact  structure)  is  filled  with  araldite  plastic, 
which  is  allowed  to  harden.  The  collector  point  is  then  electrically  formed. 
The  plastic  is  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  collector  point  does  not  subse- 
quently move  from  the  formed  area.  The  can  itself  is  then  embedded  in  a 
plastic  block,  which  is  lapped  down  to  expose  a  cross  section  of  the  unit. 
Fig.  4(a)  and  (b).  Both  the  collector  point  and  the  base  electrode  are  well 
masked.  Fig.  5.  A  droplet  of  CuS04  solution  of  fairly  low  concentration 
is  placed  on  the  germanium,  so  that  it  is  in  physical  contact  only  with 
with  the  germanium  and  the  masking  plastic.  In  order  to  identify  the 
formed  region,  a  reverse  bias  of  20  volts  or  so  is  applied  between  the 
collector  point  and  the  base  contact  for  a  time  usually  of  0.1  second  or 
less.  Actually,  best  results  have  been  obtained  by  applying  the  reverse 


PLASTIC  -=r- 


PLASTIC   BLOCK 


(a) 


Fig.  4  —  Preparation  of  a  transistor  for  copper  plating. 


n 


8 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


bias  in  the  form  of  a  condenser  discharge  pulse.  Care  must  be  taken 
to  avoid  changes  in  contact  characteristics  resulting  from  the  plating 
pulse.  The  deposit  of  copper  does  not  appear  instantly  after  pulse  ap- 
phcation,  but  may  require  several  seconds  before  becoming  visible.  At 
the  instant  the  deposit  becomes  visible,  the  plating  solution  is  washed 
ofi-. 

Fig.  G(a)  and  6(b)  show  the  results  of  the  plating  operation  on  a  formed 
collector  point  and  a  formed  emitter  point.  Both  pulses  were  similar  to, 
though  somewhat  "heavier"  than  those  usually  used  to  form  transistors. 
These  units  were  plated  under  the  conditions  illustrated  in  Fig.  5(a). 
The  floating  potential  in  the  vicinity  of  the  reversed  bias  point  can  be 
measured  as  a  function  of  the  distance,  r,  from  its  center,  using  an  aux- 
iliary tungsten  point.  Qualitatively  this  potential  is  shown  as  a  function 
of  the  distance,  r,  in  Fig.  5(b).  In  this  case  most  of  the  drop  in  magnitude 
of  the  potential  appears  within  a  radius,  r,  less  than  0.002  inches,  pro- 
vided surface  conductivity  is  small.  The  conductivity  of  the  plating  solu- 
tion is  kept  small  to  ensure  that  the  potential  distribution  in  the  ger- 
manium is  not  altered  by  presence  of  the  solution.  Under  these 
conditions,  it  is  assumed  that,  although  copper  ions  in  solution  are  at- 
tracted towards  the  highly  negative  regions  of  the  germanium,  the  main 
current  flow  is  through  the  germanium,  except  for  regions  of  high  poten- 
tial gradients.  In  these  regions  some  of  the  current  will  be  carried  by 
ions  in  the  solution,  by -passing  the  region.  If  the  formed  region  bound- 
ary is  a  sharp  p-n  junction,  one  would  expect  a  plating  pattern  as  ob- 
served in  Fig.  6(b)  and  6(d),  as  is  observed  with  the  donor-free  emitter 
point.  For  the  more  complicated  structure  produced  by  forming  the 


COLLECTOR    POINT 


MASKING 


FORMED    REGION 
BOUNDARY 


CU  SO4    SOLUTION 


MASKING 


n-Ge 


17" 


■'-BASE   CONTACT 


-V(r) 
(b) 


Fig.  5  —  Experimental  conditions  for  copixT  ])lating. 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


779 


Vr  =   -20  VOLTS 


Vp  =  -20  VOLTS 


0.25%    CUSO4    (PULSE    TIME  =:   10//S)         025"y<,    CUSO4    (PULSE    TIME  =  lO/ZS) 


Mi  LS 


Vq  =    -20  VOLTS 

(PULSE    TIME  =   10/uS  1 


Vg  =   -20  VOLTS 
[PULSE    TIME  =    10/US) 


Fig.  6  —  CopiJer  plated  formed  layers  in  point-contact  transistors. 

collector,  the  pattern  obtained  is  more  difficult  to  interpret,  Fig.  6(a) 
and  (c).  However,  in  both  cases  the  disturbed  areas  are  roughlj^  compa- 
rable in  shape  and  size. 

Differences  in  the  forward  characteristics  of  the  collector  and  emitter 
points  may  also  be  graphically  observed  by  means  of  the  plating  tech- 
nique. In  Figs.  7(a)  and  7(b)  are  sketches  of  patterns  obtained  by  applj'- 
ing  forward  bias  to  contacts  for  plating.  In  this  case  a  more  concentrated 
solution  is  used,  and  the  plating  time  is  longer.  In  Fig.  7(a)  is  shown 
the  pattern  obtained  when  an  unformed  collector  point  is  biased  for- 


780 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


ward  during  the  plating  pulse.  The  copper  deposits  to  within  the  order 
of  a  diffusion  length  from  the  emitter  point.  Fig.  7(b)  shows  the  pattern 
obtained  by  plating  the  region  near  a  forward  biased  formed  collector. 
Here  again  the  copper  has  deposited  over  practicallj^  all  of  the  base 
wafer  surface,  except  for  a  much  smaller  hemispherical  region  near  the 
collector  point. 

By  adjustment  of  the  plating  time  and  solution  concentration,  the 
almost  radial  field  in  the  bulk  germanium  under  a  reverse-biased  col- 
lector point  can  be  detected.  Under  similar  conditions,  an  emitter  point 
biased  to  the  same  voltage  shows  a  plating  pattern  similar  to  that  of  Fig. 
6(b),  with  little  evidence  of  the  radial  field.  This  would  be  expected 
from  the  potential  plots  shown  in  Fig.  2. 

These  techniques  serve  merely  to  illustrate  graphically  the  differences 
in  the  two  types  of  contact.  Although  both  points  when  formed  give 
rise  to  a  formed  region  in  the  bulk  germanium  of  similar  size  and  shape, 
the  diode  characteristics  of  the  junction  under  the  donor-doped  point 
are  degraded. 

The  plating  technique  may  also  be  adjusted  to  allow  sensitivity  to  the 
current  flow  pattern  in  a  transistor  with  both  points  biased  to  operating 
values.  The  example  shown  in  Fig.  8  demonstrates  visually  the  bulk 
nature  of  the  current  flow  in  the  point  contact  transistor.  Here  the  cop- 
per plates  out  on  the  negative  regions  of  the  crystal  and  is  noticeably 
absent  from  the  regions  of  high  hole  density  under  the  emitter  point.  In 
the  region  to  the  left  of  the  collector  indicated  by  the  arrow,  the  plating 
is  partially  obscured  by  masking.  The  size  of  the  copper-free  region  under 
the  emitter  point  may  be  i-educed  to  substantially  zero  for  the  same  /, 
by  increasing  the  bias  applied  to  the  collector. 


(a)  t^^^, 

COLLECTOR  POINT    (BEFORE    FORMING)  "^"-S  COLLECTOR    POINT    {AFTER    FORMING) 


Fig.  7  —  The  effect  of  forming  and  current  flow  in  point-contact  collectors. 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


781 


2.3  Under-Formed  and  Over-Formed  Contacts 

One  of  the  problems  encountered  in  the  large-scale  manufacture  of 
point-contact  transistors  is  the  variation  in  the  forming  yield.  Thus, 
forming  to  a  specified  criterion  of  transistor  performance  does  not  always 
result  in  a  uniform  product.  Although  considerable  care  may  be  taken  to 
ensure  uniformity  of  all  bulk  properties  and  forming  technique,  a  large 
variation  may  be  encountered  in  the  output  characteristics  of  the  tran- 
sistors. In  Section  4,  a  prime  factor  in  determining  the  efficiency  of  form- 
ing is  shown  to  be  the  chemical  history  of  the  germanium  surface.  Un- 
controllable variations  in  surface  conditions  may  therefore  often  account 
for  much  of  the  variations  in  results  of  a  specific  forming  technique. 

Such  variations  often  manifest  themselves  merely  as  differences  in 
degree,  but  may  show  up  as  differences  in  kind,  takmg  the  form  of  anoma- 
lous output  characteristics.  These  have  been  classified  by  L.  E.  Miller^^ 
into  three  qualitatively  different  phenomena.  The  first  of  these,  referred 


COLLECTOR 


PLATING 

INHIBITED 

IN  THIS  AREA 

BY    MASKING 


COPPER 

PLATED 

AREA 


VERY  HEAVY   PLATE 
UNDER  COLLECTOR 


EMITTER 


-  UNPLATED 
AREA  UNDER 
EMITTER 


GERMANIUM 

TO   BASE 

OHMIC 

CONTACT 


0  5 

SCALE    IN    MILS 

UNIT  OPERATED   AT    LOW  le;   PLATED  0.25'Vo    CUSO4,  20  SECONDS 
le  =  0.5  MA,    Vc  =   -20V,    Oi  -  0.1 


Fig.  8  —  Flow  geometry  for  a  low  alpha  point-contact  transistor. 


782 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


to  as  the  type  (1)  anomaly,  is  of  interest  here  since  it  represents  a  col- 
lector contact  whose  physical  properties  are  between  the  extremes  listed 
in  Section  2.2.  Miller  has  shown  that  the  source  of  this  kind  of  outpvit 
characteristic  can  be  identified  as  the  formed  area  under  the  collector 
point. 

Essentially  this  anomaly  consists  of  an  abrupt  rise  in  the  current  gain 
as  the  collector  voltage  Vc  is  increased  at  constant  emitter  current.  Be- 
yond the  critical  value  of  Vc ,  the  characteristic  of  the  unit  resembles 
that  of  a  well  formed  transistor.  One  is  led  to  consider  that  such  a  con- 
tact is  under-formed,  in  the  sense  that  at  low  Vc  ,  collection  of  holes  is 
inadequate.  Further  support  is  lent  to  such  a  definition  by  the  data  of 
Miller,  which  shows  a  definite  increase  in  the  occurrence  of  anomalous 
units  with  a  decrease  in  the  Ico  of  the  contact.  Such  an  increase  occurs 
regardless  of  whether  the  Ico  decrease  is  obtained  by  decreasing  the  donor 
concentration  of  the  point  wire,  or  by  increasing  the  time  constant  of 
the  forming  pulse.  In  Table  II  are  compared  collector  capacity  and  Ico 
measurements  made  in  units  with  and  without  output  characteristic 
anomalies.  The  capacity  of  these  anomalous  collectors  also  appears  to 
range  between  the  two  extremes  listed  in  Table  I.  Thus  there  is  evidence 
that  these  collectors  are  intermediate  between  the  extremes  cited  in 
Table  I  in  the  sense  that  at  low  reverse  biases  the  drift  field  is  low,  and 
the  properties  of  the  formed  barrier  resemble  those  of  a  formed  donor- 
free  point. 

The  results  of  detailed  investigation  of  the  properties  of  such  anoma- 
lous characteristics  now  being  conducted  will  be  published  at  a  later 
date.  The  present  experimental  results  indicate  that  the  instability  oc- 
curs when  the  extra  current  to  the  collector.  Ale  ,  reaches  a  critical  value. 
In  this  respect,  increasing  the  transport  factor  (3,  by  increasing  Vc ,  or 
increasing  the  emitter  current  are  equivalent.  At  a  roughly  critical  Ale  , 
the  transition  between  a  low  a  and  a  higher  value  of  a  occurs.  After  the 
transition,  the  unit  behaves  like  a  conventional  point  contact  transistor, 
with  a  current  multiplication  on  the  order  of  (1  +  &)  at  higher  values  of 
le .  Thus  the  origin  of  this  kind  of  anomaly  may  lie  in  the  lowering  of 
the  formed  barrier  by  the  space  charge  of  the  holes,  a  mechanism  sug- 
gested by  Bardeen. 

Table  II 


Idle  =  0,  Fc  =  -10  volts) 


Typical  Transistor 

Typical  Anomalous  Transistor . 


]  .0  Ilia 
0.2  ma 


Cede  =  0,  ^0  =  -10  volts) 


(I.  1  nix( 

0.5  fi/jif 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  783 

The  other  anomalous  collector  characteristics  considered  by  Miller 
have  their  origin  in  the  relation  between  the  transport  factor  and  the 
properties  of  the  emitter  at  various  operating  conditions.  In  view  of  the 
relations  existing  between  the  occurrence  of  these  anomalies  and  the 
Ico  of  the  collector  contact,  there  is  some  justification  for  classification 
of  these  contacts  as  "over-formed." 

3.    PROPERTIES    OF    UNFORMED    POINT    CONTACTS 

3.1  Physical  Properties  oj  Metal- Semiconductor  Contacts 

The  classical  ideas  on  the  nature  of  the  rectifying  metal-semiconductor 
contact  have  undergone  substantial  revision  since  the  consideration  by 
Bardeen  of  the  importance  of  surface  states  and  the  work  on  the  point 
contact  transistory  by  Bardeen  and  Brattain.  According  to  Bardeen's 
model,  the  nature  of  the  space  charge  layer  at  such  a  contact  is  to  be 
considered  largely  independent  of  the  metal  used  for  contact,  and  is  pri- 
maril}^  dependent  on  the  charge  residing  in  localized  states  at  the  ger- 
manium surface.  Thus  the  rectifying  properties  of  the  metal  semiconduc- 
tor contact  in  air  are  expected  to  be  largely  independent  of  the  work 
function  of  the  contact  metal. 

The  question  of  the  exact  nature  of  the  surface  charges  is  not  yet  read- 
ily answerable.  Charges  may  arise  which  consist  of  electrons  and  holes 
residing  in  surface  states  of  the  type  proposed  by  Tamm.^'  On  the  other 
hand,  other  surface  charges  may  arise  as  a  result  of  adsorbed  impurity 
ions,  or  from  adsorbed  atoms  or  molecules  having  electrical  dipole  mo- 
ments. Brattain  and  Bardeen^  have  shown  that  the  space  charge  layer 
is  dependent  on  the  surrounding  ambient  and  have  indicated  that  charge 
may  reside  on  the  outer  surface  of  a  film  (presumably  an  oxide  laj^er) 
at  the  germanium  surface  as  well  as  in  surface  states  of  the  type  men- 
tioned above,  which  are  presumably  those  responsible  for  surface  re- 
combination processes. 

Thus,  it  is  the  surface  charge  on  the  semiconductor,  rather  than  the 
nature  of  the  metal,  which  primarily  determines  the  nature  of  the  po- 
tential barrier  which  exists  at  a  metal  semiconductor  junction. 

A  schematic  electron  energy  diagram  for  the  contact  between  a  metal 
and  an  7i-type  semiconductor  is  shown  in  Fig.  9.  The  potential  barrier 
^0 ,  and  the  nature  of  the  space  charge  layer  in  the  semiconductor  are 
determined  by  the  surface  charge  system  and  the  bulk  properties  of 
the  semiconductor.  In  turn,  the  surface  charge  system  is  dependent  upon 
such  factors  as  the  ambient  at  the  germanium  surface  and  the  chemical 
history  of  the  surface. 


784 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


-METAL 


n-TYPE    SEMICONDUCTOR- 


Fig.  9  —  Electron  energy  diagram  for  a  metal -semiconductor  contact. 

The  experiments  of  Brown^  indicate  that  the  presence  of  charge  on 
the  surface  of  p-germanium  can  alter  the  space  charge  in  the  crystal 
near  its  surface  and,  in  some  cases,  produces  an  inversion  layer  of  n- 
germanium  at  the  surface.  Garrett  and  Brattain^°  have  shown  that  a 
change  of  ambient  from  sparked  oxygen  to  dry  oxygen  to  wet  oxygen 
can  increase  Ico  and  floating  potential  on  n-p-n  junction  transistors,  and 
the  process  is  reversible.  Their  interpretation  is  that  sparked  oxygen 
builds  up  a  film,  presumably  germanium  oxide.  Oxygen  atoms  on  the 
surface,  negatively  charged,  can  give  rise  to  a  p-type  inversion  layei  on 
n-germanium.  Moisture  apparently  counteracts  this  negative  charge, 
and  humid  oxygen  can  cause  an  n-type  inversion  layer  on  p-germanium, 
which  can  be  removed  with  a  dry  oxygen  ambient. 

Thus,  the  electrical  resistance  of  an  unformed  metal-germanium  con- 
tact on  an  etched  germanium  surface  can  be  expected  to  be  extremely 
sensitive  to  any  chemical  treatment  which  tends  to  affect  the  constitu- 
tion of  the  oxide  layer  present  on  the  surface,  regardless  of  the  metal 
used  for  contact  in  air.  Bardeen  and  Brattain,^  in  early  transistor  ex- 
periments, have  shown  that  such  is  the  case.  They  have  used  transistor 
collector  points  on  germanium  surfaces  which,  after  etching,  were  sub- 
jected to  an  oxidation  treatment  (heating  in  air). 

In  this  section  are  described  experiments  which  seem  to  indicate  that 
the  reverse  resistance  of  unformed  diodes  on  etched  n-germanium  sur- 
faces can  be  decreased  by  chemical  surface  treatment,  and  the  magnitude 
of  the  floating  potential  near  such  contacts  is  increased  to  sufficient  ex- 
tent that  the  point  can  serve  as  a  multiplying  collector.  Average  a  for 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS  785 

these  points  approaches  values  found  in  electrically  formed  collectors. 
Subsequent  parts  of  this  section  will  be  concerned  with  description  of  the 
experiments  involved  and  comparison  of  the  electrical  characteristics  of 
these  points  with  those  of  conventionally  formed  points. 

The  effections  of  electrical  forming  on  donor-doped  and  donor-free 
point  contacts  have  been  described  in  earlier  sections.  It  has  been  stressed 
that  the  addition  of  the  donor  element  to  the  point  results  in  a  contact 
with  degraded  diode  characteristics,  but  which  serves  as  an  excellent 
collector. 

The  possibility  of  an  analogous  situation  in  an  unformed  point  collec- 
tor exists,  with  the  electrical  forming  of  the  donor-doped  point  being 
replaced  by  a  suitable  chemical  treatment  of  the  surface.  The  experi- 
ments described  below  indicate  that  such  is  the  case. 

3.2  Experimental  Procedures 

The  germanium  used  in  these  experiments  was  zone-leveled  material. 
The  n-germanium  was  in  the  3  to  4  12-cm  range.  Originally,  experiments 
were  run  using  slices,  about  0.025  in  thickness,  soldered  on  flat  brass 
blocks,  with  the  brass  well  masked  with  polystyrene.  Germanium  dice, 
already  mounted  on  standard  base-header  assemblies  used  in  a  hermetic- 
seal  transistor  process  pilot  line,  were  also  used. 

The  ground  surface  of  a  slice  was  given  a  three-minute  chemical  etch 
(CP4  or  superoxol),  washed  in  pure  water  (conductivity  <0.1  micromho), 
and  blown  dry  in  a  nitrogen  stream.  This  surface  could  then  be  exposed 
for  several  minutes  to  24  per  cent  HF,  hot  zinc  chloride-ammonium  chlo- 
ride solder  flux,  or  other  chemical  treatments  as  the  experiment  might 
require.  These  solutions  were  applied  to  the  slice  or  die  in  the  form  of 
large  droplets,  so  the  solution  did  not  come  in  contact  even  with  the 
masking.  Later,  in  order  to  make  doubly  sure  that  contamination  from 
the  base  or  base  contact  was  not  involved,  all  experiments  were  repeated 
using  a  two-inch  length  of  a  zone  leveled  bar  with  a  base  contact  soldered 
on  one  end,  and  the  other  end,  freshly  ground  between  treatments,  used 
as  the  surface  under  examination.  The  etching  was  done  by  lowering 
one  end  of  the  bar  about  one-half  inch  into  the  etch,  leaving  the  contact 
end  a  good  distance  from  the  etch.  The  etched  surface  could  subsequently 
be  exposed  to  any  desired  chemical  treatment.  After  the  chemical  treat- 
ment, the  sample  surface  was  again  washed  in  low  conductivity  water 
for  several  minutes  and  blown  dry  with  nitrogen. 

The  sample,  after  chemical  treatment,  was  placed  on  a  double  ended 
manipulator  base,  used  to  control  the  position  and  pressure  of  two  canti- 


786       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956  « 


'J 


lever  points  on  the  treated  surface.  The  electrical  characteristics  of  a 
beryllium  copper  point,  operating  as  transistor  collector  on  the  treated 
surface,  could  then  be  investigated.  An  auxiliary  etched  tungsten  point 
doubled  as  a  potential  probe  and  as  an  emitter.  A  switching  arrangement 
allowed  oscilloscope  presentation  of  the  h-Vc  collector  family  and  the 
alpha-emitter  current  sweep,  measurement  of  the  emitter  floating  poten- 
tial on  a  high  impedance  VTVM,  and  determination  of  other  transistor 
parameters  for  any  desired  position  of  the  emitter  point. 

Phosphor  bronze  collector  points  were  not  used  since  it  was  found  that, 
on  certain  chemically  etched  surfaces  the  mere  application  of  a  negative 
bias  of  15-40  volts  for  a  few  seconds  sometimes  is  sufficient  to  cause  elec- 
trical forming  of  the  point  in  the  sense  that  Ico  and  average  a  are  in- 
creased by  an  appreciable  amount. 

The  beryllium  copper  points  were  carefully  cleaned  to  prevent  con- 
tamination by  donor  elements.  Their  cleanHness  was  then  tested  by 
other  methods  described  in  Section  3.3.6. 

With  this  arrangement,  most  of  the  electrical  properties  of  a  given 
manipulator  unit  could  be  inspected  during  the  time  the  unit  ''survived." 
These  electrical  measurements  were  made  in  room  air  (R.  H.  between 
20  and  30  per  cent),  although  provision  was  made  for  directing  a  con- 
tinuous stream  of  dry  nitrogen  at  the  points  and  surrounding  surface. 

3.3  Experimental  Results 

3.3.1   Unformed  Transistors  on  Superoxol  Etched*  Surfaces 

A  striking  difference  was  observed  in  the  electrical  characteristics  of 
unformed  collector  points  on  the  \'arious  n-germanium  surfaces  ex- 
amined. In  particular,  surprisingly  large  values  of  7c.(0,  —10)  and 
/c(6,  —5),  (the  latter  taken  as  a  measure  of  average  a),  were  encountered 
on  the  superoxol  etched  surface  subsequently  "soaked"  for  about  10 
minutes  with  24  per  cent  HF.  At  these  locations  the  unformed  transis- 
tor action  was  quite  similar  to  that  observed  with  a  conventional  phos- 
phor bronze  point  formed  on  a  freshly  etched  surface. 

These  large  values  were  found  only  in  specific  locations  on  the  treated 
surface,  there  being  a  random  fluctuation  of  7,(0  —10)  and  /c(6,  —5) 
with  location  of  the  points  on  the  surface.  However,  no  such  large  values 
of  these  parameters  were  found  (together)  on  surfaces  freshly  etched  in 
superoxol.  The  a  as  a  function  of  emitter  current  for  the  unformed  points 
(2.5  mil  spacing)  on  a  superoxol  etched  surface,  before  (Curve  I)  and 
after  (Curve  II)  HF  treatment  is  shown  in  Fig.  10.  Comparison  with 


One  part  30  por  cent  H2O2  ,  one  part  48  per  cent  HF  and  four  parts  water. 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS 


787 


4.5 
4.0 

3.5 
3.0 

<  2.5 

I 
Q. 

<  2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 


K 

Vr  =-10  VOLTS 

\ 

\ 

k 

\ 

> 

II,Ph  Br -FORMED 

M 

' — 

[ 

~ 

<^^ 

' 

I, Be  CU-  FORMED 

> 1               g              1 < 

9 

0.5  1.0  1.5  2.0         2.5  3.0         3.5         4.0 

CURRENT,  Ig,  IN    MILLIAMPERES 


4.5 


5.0 


Fig.  10 
collectors. 


Comparison  of  alpha-emitter-current  characteristics  for  unformed 


Curve  II,  Fig.  3,  indicates  that  the  «(/£),  obtained  after  the  HF  treat- 
ment, is  comparable  to  that  of  a  phosphor  bronze  collector  formed  con- 
ventionally on  the  same  etched  surface  before  treatment.  (It  turns  out 
that  conventional  electrical  forming  on  the  etched  surface  after  the  HF 
treatment  is  more  difficult,  and  in  cases  as  referred  to  above,  where  the 
a  is  not  initially  high,  requires  an  excessive  number  of  pulses  to  bring 
the  a  to  a  normal  value.) 

In  Table  III  are  listed  the  maximum  and  minimum  values  of  some 
transistor  parameters  found  on  the  same  superoxol-etched  surface  be- 
fore and  after  the  HF  treatment  (point  spacing  about  2  mils). 

It  is  seen  that  the  effect  of  the  subsequent  HF  treatment  after  the 
superoxol  etch  is  at  least  in  some  locations  on  the  treated  surface  to  in- 
crease the  /c(0,  —10)  and  the  average  a,  in  some  cases  to  values  ap- 
proaching those  encountered  in  conventionally  formed  point-contact 
transistors.  There  is  also  a  lowering  of  the  forward  current  of  the  un- 
formed collector  point  after  the  HF  treatment.  It  is  not  to  be  implied 
from  this  table  that  the  Ico  is  always  found  to  be  low  on  fresh  superoxol- 
etched  surfaces.  Actually  high  values  of  7c(0,  —10)  have  been  occa- 
sionally found  on  surfaces  freshly  etched  in  superoxol.  However,  these 
collectors  seldom  have  high  values  of  average  a,  and  it  is  suspected  that 
here  the  higher  reverse  current  is  associated  with  excessive  surface 
conductivity.  Treatment  of  such  a  surface  with  HF  always  serves  to 
increase  the  average  a,  and  decrease  the  forward  emitter  current,  with 


788 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


Table  III 


Parameter 


/c(0,  -10)  ma.  . 
/c(6,  —5)  ma.  .  , 
7c (0,  +0.5)  ma. 
Peak  value  of  a 
a  (5.0,  -10).... 


After  3  Min. 
Supero.xol  Etch 


Max.  Value 
Observed 


-0.16 

-7.0 

2.8 

3.0 

0.50 


Min.  Value 
Observed 


-0.06 

-0.95 

2.0 

0.15 

0.09 


After  Subsequent  10  Min. 
"Soak"  in  24%  HF 


Max.  Value 
Observed 


-  0.98 

-13.5 

2.3 

6.0 

2.0 


Min.  Value 
Observed 


-0.20 

-7.0 

1.3 

2.0 

0.5 


no  significant  changes  in  the  extreme  values  of  IdO,  —10)  encountered 
initially.  Some  of  the  unformed  units  have  collector  families  quite  simi- 
lar to  those  of  an  electrically  formed  point-contact  transistor.  However, 
the  resemblance  ends  when  stability  of  operation  is  considered.  Wlien 
the  unformed  units  are  operated  in  room  ambient,  hysteresis  loops  are 
occasionally  observed,  either  in  the  Ic-Vc  output  characteristic  sweep, 
or  the  a-emitter  current  sweep.  This  hysteresis  can  be  eliminated  by  di- 
recting a  stream  of  dry  nitrogen  across  the  germanium  surface  in  the  , 
vicinity  of  the  points.  It  is  not  known  whether  the  hj^steresis  is  thermal 
or  electrolytic  in  nature.  The  operation  of  these  unformed  units,  even  ; 
in  the  absence  of  hysteresis,  is  extremely  erratic  and  unstable.  Operating  ^> 
a  unit  at  a  high  power  level  will  cause  loss  of  a  and  Ico ,  and  mechanical 
shock  delivered  to  the  collector  point  while  the  unit  operates  under  bias 
may  cause  loss  or  gain  of  a  and  Ico  •  In  cases  where  Ico  (and  a)  are  low 
when  the  collector  point  is  initially  set  down  on  the  treated  surface,  an 
increase  in  Ico  and  a  may  be  brought  about  by  mechanical  motion  of  the 
point,  (such  as  "tapping"  the  manipulator  base,  or  dragging  the  point 
across  the  surface).  In  other  cases  the  high  a  and  Ico  are  found  immedi- 
ately after  the  point  is  set  doAvn  on  the  freshly  treated  surface,  without 
any  such  procedure.  None  of  these  effects  is  observed  to  an  appreciable 
degree  on  a  freshly  etched  surface  without  further  treatment. 

The  effect  of  zinc  chloride-ammonium  chloride  solder  flux  on  fresh 
superoxol-etched  surfaces  was  also  investigated.  In  this  case,  after 
the  etch,  the  surface  was  immersed  in  almost  boiling  solder  flux  for  about 
ten  minutes.  The  effect  of  this  surface  treatment  on  the  performance  of 
the  unformed  transistors  was  entirely  similar  to  the  results  quoted  in 
connection  with  the  HF  treatment.  The  treatment  increased  the  reverse 
collector  current  and  average  a,  and  decreased  the  forward  collector 
current,  on  the  average.  Magnitudes  of  /c(0,  —5)  as  high  as  14  ma  were 
observed  on  surfaces  treated  in  this  way. 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


789 


3.3.2  Unformed  Transistors  on  CPi-Etched  Surfaces 

With  reference  to  unformed  point  contact  properties,  the  CP4-etched 
surface  is  not  at  all  similar  to  the  superoxol  etched  surface.  If  two  beryl- 
lium-copper points  are  put  down  on  a  ground  surface  freshly  etched;  in 
CP4 ,  and  operated  as  a  transistor,  high  values  of  7c(0,  — 10)  and 
/<.(6,  —5)  are  often  encountered.  However,  after  an  hour  or  so  in  room 
air,  both  these  parameters  decrease  and  after  an  overnight  exposure  to 
room  air,  the  properties  of  the  surface  with  regard  to  the  transistor  ac- 
tion resemble  those  of  a  surface  freshly  etched  in  superoxol.  At  this  point, 
a  treatment  in  24  per  cent  HF  will  return  /c(0,  —10)  and  7c(6,  —5)  to 
their  originally  high  values.  These  effects  are  summarized  in  Table  IV. 

3.3.3  Diode  Characteristics  on  Electro-Etched  Surfaces 

It  has  been  found  that  the  rectification  properties  of  unformed  point 
diodes  may  also  be  changed  conveniently  by  changing  the  conditions 
during  an  electrolytic  etch  in  KOH  solution.  These  results  are  summa- 
rized in  Table  V  which  represents  typical  variation  in  reverse  current, 
Ir ,  with  surface  variation  attainable  by  adjusting  the  current  density 
and  etching  time.  In  each  case  the  measurements  represent  data  taken 
on  germanium  cut  from  adjacent  sections  of  the  same  ingot  and  given 
the  surface  treatment  noted  in  the  table.  In  general  the  electro-etched 
and  chemically  etched  results  agree;  that  is,  any  treatment  which  ap- 
pears most  likely  to  leave  an  oxide  film  (such  as  the  use  of  a  high  current 
density  during  electro-etching)  will  yield  a  diode  with  improved  rectifica- 
tion characteristics. 


I      3.3.4  Output  Characteristic  Anomalies 

In  the  process  of  examining  these  chemically  treated  surfaces,  some 
i  of  the  superoxol-etched  n-germanium  surfaces  were  given  additional 

Table  IV 


Value  after  3  Min. 
CP4  Etch 

Value  after  16  Hrs. 
in  Room  Air 

Value  after  10  Min. 
in  24%  HF 

Max.  Value 
Observed 

Min.  Value 
Observed 

Max.  Value 
Observed 

Min.  Value 
Observed 

Max. 

Min. 

/e (0,-10)  ma.. 
/c(6,  —5)  ma.  . 
Peak  value  of 

a (5.0,  -10)''^' 

-1.7 
-13.3 

4.5 

1.8 

-0.30 
-11.0 

2.5 

1.0 

-0.10 
-7.0 

2.0 
1.0 

-0.04 
-2.0 

0.75 
0.25 

-1.0 

-17.5 

9.0 
2.0 

-0.06 
-8.0 

3.0 
0.75 

790 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    195G 


Table  V 


Etch  Treatment  in  0.1%  KOH 

/,  (-10  volts) 

10  ma  for  30  sec 

5  ma  for  30  sec 

2.5  ma  for  30  sec 

5  ma  for  1  min 

-0.16  ma 
-0.37 
-0.55 
-0.04 

2.5  ma  for  1  min 

1 .  75  ma  for  1  min 

-0.18 
-0.74 

treatments  in  H2O2  (superoxol  strength).  In  general,  no  great  differences 
were  observed  in  the  unformed  alpha  and  /c(0,  — 10)  after  the  treatment. 
However,  in  isolated  cases,  unformed  units  made  on  etched  p-gerraanium 
treated  in  this  way  exhibit  output  characteristic  anomalies  of  the  type 
characterized  by  Miller  as  type  (1).  It  was  later  found  that  the  same 
surface  treatment  can  produce  a  similar  result  on  etched  11-germanium 
surfaces,  again  only  in  isolated  locations  on  the  surface.  An  output  char- 
acteristic of  this  form  is  shown  in  Fig.  11.  This  unformed  unit  was  made 
on  a  superoxol-etched  n-germanium  surface  with  a  subsequent  three- 
minute  soak  in  H2O2  .  This  characteristic  was  extremely  sensitive  to 
variation  in  point  pressure. 

Miller  has  also  referred  to  output  anomalies  of  types  (2)  and  (3),  which 
are  usually  associated  with  close  point  spacing  in  conventional  point- 
contact  transistors.  Such  types  of  anomaly  have  been  observed  in  un- 
formed units  (with  high  average  alpha)  made  on  HF  treated  surfaces. 

3.3.5     Floating  Potential  Measurements 

In  all  cases  where  the  /c(0,  —10)  and  average  alpha  on  etched  sur- 
faces are  increased  by  the  HF  or  solder  flux  treatment,  these  increases 
are  accompanied  by  an  increase  in  the  magnitude  of  the  floating  poten- 
tial near  the  reverse-biased  collector.  In  Fig.  12  the  magnitude  of  the 
floating  potential  Vp  of  a  sharp  tungsten  probe  near  the  reverse-biased 
collector  is  shown  as  a  function  of  r,  the  distance  of  the  probe  from  the 
collector  (r  is  approximately  the  distance  between  the  center  of  the  two 
point  contacts).  The  surface  used  in  this  experiment  was  prepared  by 
chemical  polish  for  three  minutes  in  CP4  and  subsequent  storing  in  room 
air  for  sixteen  hours.  This  provided  a  smooth  surface  which  resembled, 
at  least  with  regard  to  electrical  characteristics,  a  freshly  etched  super- 
oxol surface. 

Curve  I  represents  the  potential-distance  plot  for  an  unformed  BeCu 
point  on  the  aged  superoxol-etched  surface.  Curve  II  represents  a  similar 
plot  for  an  unformed  BeCu  point  taken  after  the  surface  was  given  a 
ten-minute  soak  in  24  per  cent  HF. 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS 


791 


The  measured  resistivity  of  the  germanium  used  in  this  experiment 
was  3.3  to  3.6  fl-cm.  It  can  be  seen  from  Curves  I  and  II  that  increase 
in  the  magnitude  of  the  floating  potential  near  the  unformed  point  on 
the  etched  surface  after  the  HF  treatment  is,  to  a  rough  extent,  propor- 
tional to  the  increase  in  /c(0,  — 10)  produced  by  the  treatment.  Values 
of  2irVpr/I  taken  from  lines  of  slope  (  —  1)  drawn  for  best  fit  through 
points  on  the  individual  curves  give  reasonable  agreement  with  the 
measured  resistivity.  For  curve  I,  27r F^r//  =  3.3  ohm-cm,  and  for 
Curve  II,  2TrVpr/I  =  3.5  ohm-cm. 

By  comparing  Curves  I  and  II  of  Fig.  2  with  Curves  I  and  II  of  Fig. 
12,  it  can  be  seen  that  the  effect  of  treating  the  surface  under  the  un- 
formed point  with  HF  is  analogous  to  adding  donor  to  the  formed  point 


-10 


CURRENT,    Ic.lN     MILLIAMPERES 
-7  -6  -5  -4  -3  -2 


Fig.  11  ■ —  Type    (1)    collector  anomaly  observed   in    unformed   unit    (n-t,\])e 
germanium) . 


I 


792 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


0.20 


0.10 
0.08 

0.06 
0.05 

0.04 
0.03 


O     0.02 
> 


t 
0.010 

0.008 

0.006 
0.005 
0.004 

0.003 
0.002 


0.001 


^N 

- 

1 — c 

\, 

- 

\ 

S^ 

H,  Ic(0,-10)  =  -0.9M 

A 

^ 

1 

\ 

-OH 

\ 

^ 

fO' 

N 

'^^ 

- 

\ 

- 

i-K>^ 

k 

I,   Ic(0,-10)  =  -0.07MA^ 

i-C 

k 

N 

K 

V 

>■ 

1 

1 

1 

1 

I 


0.1 


0.2 


0.3     0.4 


0.6     0.8 


1.0 

r 


2 
IN    MILS 


4      5     6 


8      10 


20 


Fig.  12  —  Comparison  of  floating  potentials  for  unformed  point-contact  col- 
lectors. 

on  the  etched  surface.  It  seems  reasonable  to  ascribe  the  increased  nega- 
tive floating  potential  after  the  HF  treatment  to  an  increase  in  current 
density  through  the  surface  under  the  point,  rather  than  to  any  increase 
in  surface  conductivity.  It  is  worth  noting  that  on  superoxol-etched  sur- 
faces, the  negative  floating  potential  near  an  unformed  collector  point 
can  often  be  increased  by  an  order  of  magnitude  by  blowing  a  stream 
of  dry  nitrogen  near  the  point.  This  effect  may  possibly  be  a  result  of 
excess  surface  conductivity,  but  in  these  cases  is  not  accompanied  by  any 
appreciable  changes  in  IdO,  — 10)  or  average  alpha. 

3.3.6  Contamination  of  Collector  Points  and  Surfaces 

Past  experience  Avith  use  of  point-contacts  as  transistor  collectors  indi- 
cates that  experiments  may  often  be  confused  or  confounded  by  unsus- 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS  793 

pected  contamination  of  the  points  used.  For  this  reason,  particular 
attention  was  given  to  chemical  processing  of  the  beryllium  copper  points 
used  in  the  preceding  experiments.  These  points  were  chemically  cleaned 
to  remove  oxides  and  unwanted  contaminants,  and  carefully  washed 
before  use.  Several  lots  were  processed  at  different  times,  and  all  experi- 
ments repeated  on  the  different  lots,  with  no  contradictory  results. 

It  is  particularly  important  that  the  point  be  free  from  donor  elements, 
since  it  has  been  observed  that  that  phosphor  bronze  points  or  "poi- 
soned" beryllium  copper  points  washed  with  a  lithium  chloride  solution 
often  exhibit  on  superoxol  etched  surfaces  a  kind  of  "forming"  after  the 
application  of  reverse  bias.  The  symptoms  of  this  are  a  sudden  increase 
in  I  CO  which  take  place  as  the  reverse  bias  is  increased  above  15-20  volts. 
The  alpha  emitter  current  sweep  shows  evidence  of  excessive  noise  in 
such  a  case,  and  it  is  not  until  the  collector  is  given  a  conventional  form- 
ing pulse  that  this  excessive  noise  is  ehminated,  and  the  unit  becomes 
stable  in  operation. 

A  donorless  point  can  be  reasonably  identified  by  the  fact  that  elec- 
trical pulsing,  heavy  or  light,  will  not  increase  the  initially  low  average 
alpha  on  a  superoxol-etched  surface  to  values  much  above  1 .0,  although 
J  CO  may  be  increased  or  decreased  depending  on  the  type  of  condenser 
discharge  used.  The  beryllium  copper  points  used  were  tested  on  super- 
oxol-etched surface  to  make  sure  they  showed  no  tendency  to  form 
electrically. 

If  high  values  of  alpha  can  be  found  when  these  points  are  used  as  un- 
formed collectors  on  the  surfaces  treated  in  HF  or  solder  flux,  the  ques- 
tion arises  whether  such  values  may  be  attributable  to  presence  of  a 
donor  element  left  on  the  surface  in  some  mysterious  way  by  the  chemi- 
cal treatment.  If  such  is  the  case,  the  donor  might,  at  high  enough  re- 
\  erse  bias,  be  responsible  for  an  increased  alpha  in  a  manner  similar  to 
that  observed  in  connection  with  the  forming  in  under  bias  of  phosphor 
bronze  collectors  on  etched  surfaces.  Two  precautions  were  taken  in  this 
connection.  No  reverse  bias  greater  than  10  volts  was  ever  applied  in- 
tentionally to  these  collectors  during  experiments  (with  exception  of  the 
iunit  in  Figure  11),  and  secondly,  forming  characteristics  of  both  phos- 
jphor  bronze  points  and  the  beryllium  copper  points  on  this  type  of  sur- 
face were  investigated. 

It  was  found  that  on  a  superoxol  surface  treated  with  HF  or  the  solder 
iflux,  a  phosphor  bronze  point  would  form  to  a  high  average  a,  but  this 
invariably  required  more  forming  pulses  than  on  a  superoxol  etched 
[surface.  "One-shot"  forming  is  common  for  a  superoxol  etched  surface, 
'whereas  after  the  HF  or  solder-flux  treatment,  forming  to  high  average 


794 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


Table  VI 


/c(0,  -10). 
a(5.0,  -10) 
Noisv 


Point 


Beryllium  Copper  Collector 


Phosphor  Bronze  Collector 


Occasion 


Before  Forming 


-0.75 
1.5 
Yes 


After  Four 
Forming  Pulses 


-0.50 
0 

Yes 


Before  Forming 


-0.80 
1.5 

Yes 


After  Four 
Forming  Pulses 


-2.5 
2.0 
No 


alpha  invariably  requires  at  least  three  and  sometimes  many  more-, 
''shots",  although  it  can  be  done.  This  type  of  formed  unit  does  not 
exhibit  excessive  noise  in  the  a-I^  sweeping  gear.  However,  pulsing  of 
the  beryllium  copper  points  on  the  latter  kind  of  surface,  in  similar  fash- 
ion, invariably  results  in  loss  of  alpha  and  never  eliminates  the  exces- 
sive noise.  Initially,  the  pulsing  decreases  the  Ico  magnitude,  but  con- 
tinued pulsing  will  eventually  cause  large  increases  in  this  case.  These 
results  provide  circumstantial  evidence,  at  least,  that  the  treated  sur- 
face and  the  point  are  operationally  free  of  any  donor  element  and  that 
the  transistor  collector  barrier  involved  is  at  the  germanium  surface. 
For  example,  in  Table  VI  are  given  some  typical  data  obtained  during 
pulsing  of  points  on  a  superoxol-etched  surface  after  treatment  with 
near  boiling  zinc  chloride-ammonium  chloride  solder-flux.  A  tungsten 
emitter  was  used.* 

3.4  Discussion  of  Experimental  Results 

.3.4.1  Effects  of  the  Chemical  Treatment  on  the  Superoxol-Etched  Surfaces 

It  might  be  presumed  that  an  inversion  layer  and  a  relatively  high 
surface  conductivity  is  responsible  for  the  increase  in  negative  floating 
potential  and  reverse  current  observed  on  the  superoxol-etched  n-ger- 
manium  surface  after  the  HF  treatment.  On  the  other  hand,  if  it  be 
assumed  that  at  the  etched  surface,  in  room  air,  an  inversion  layer  ex- 
ists which  does  not  introduce  excessive  surface  conductivity,  one  can 
say  that  the  effect  of  the  HF  treatment  is  merely  to  raise  the  surface 
potential,  (i.e.,  to  reduce  the  barrier  height  for  electrons).  This  might 


*  Alpha  values  are  usually  lower  in  any  given  situation  when  the  conventional 
chisel-type  beryllium  copper  emitter  point  is  replaced  by  an  etched  tungsten 
point. 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS  795 

account  for  the  increase  in  reverse  current  density*  and  a  proportional 
increase  in  the  magnitude  of  the  floating  potential  near  the  point.  In 
this  case  the  geometry  of  current  flow  across  the  contact  should  remain 
relatively  unchanged  as  indicated  by  the  floating  potential  measure- 
ments. In  this  way  the  effect  of  the  HF  treatment  is  somewhat  analogous 
to  the  addition  of  a  small  donor  concentration  near  the  surface  to  coun- 
teract the  inversion  layer.  Since  soluble  oxide  layers'  have  been  identified 
on  etched  germanium  surfaces,  it  is  not  unlikely  that  HF  (known  to 
dissolve  germanium  oxide)"  might  act  to  reduce  the  effective  thickness 
of  an  oxide  layer.  Such  a  hypothesis  is  in  agreement  with  the  results  of 
other  experimenters/^  who  have  attributed  a  surface  inversioji  layer 
under  the  point  of  an  n-germanium  rectifier  to  the  presence  of  germa- 
nium oxide.  They  have  presumed  the  oxide  is  essential  to  the  formation  of 
a  good  point  contact  rectifier.  The  fact  that,  for  a  given  ambient,  the 
surface  potential  is  determined  by  the  oxide  layer  thickness  has  been 
postulated  b}-  Ivingston.''* 

3.4.2  CPi-Etched  Surfaces 

Sullivan,""  in  connection  with  an  experimental  investigation  of  hu- 
midity stability  of  electrolytically-etched  and  chemically-etched  p-n 
grown  junction  diodes,  shows  that  CP4  chemically-etched  surfaces  be- 
come more  stable  \\ith  respect  to  humidity  variation  after  humidity 
exposure  and  cycling  at  room  temperature.  Referring  to  the  fact  that 
electron  diffraction  studies  fail  to  reveal  a  crystalline  oxide  film  on  CP4 
chemically-polished  surfaces  and  to  the  results  of  Law,"*"  which  indicate 
that  oxide  films  may  be  formed  slowly  at  room  temperature  on  exposure 
1 0  water  vapors,  he  attributes  the  changes  of  stability  on  the  CP4  polished 
surface  to  the  building  up  of  an  oxide  film.  If  such  a  change  can  take 
place  on  the  CP4  chemically-polished  surface  on  exposure  to  humid  room 
air,  then  the  results  of  Section  3.3  can  be  understood  under  the  assump- 
tion that  the  action  of  the  HF  treatment  is  to  remove  the  oxide  film. 

After  the  chemical  polish,  values  of  /c(0,  —10)  and  average  alpha  for 
the  unformed  units  are  high,  as  might  be  expected  if  the  polishing  opera- 
tion leaves  the  germanium  surface  with  no  appreciable  oxide  film.  As 
the  oxide  film  builds  up  on  continued  exposure  to  room  air,  both  of  these 
parameters  are  reduced.  The  subsecjuent  application  of  HF  tends  to 
lestore  these  parameters  to  their  original  ^'alues  by  removal  of  some  of 
this  oxide  film.  Thus,  the  results  of  this  section  are  in  accord  with  the 


*  Evidence  for  an  increase  in  surface  recombination  velocity  on  HF  treated 
surfaces  is  given  in  Section  4.2.3. 


796 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


hypothesis  discussed  in  the  previous  section  to  account  for  the  effect  of 
HF  on  the  unformed  transistors. 

Such  evidence,  however,  is  at  best  only  indirect  evidence  for  the  build- 
up of  an  oxide  layer  on  prolonged  exposure  to  room  air.  In  experiments 
Avith  grown  p-n  junction  diodes,  the  authors  have  found  great  variations 
in  the  length  of  time  required  for  the  electrical  properties  of  the  diodes 
to  recover  after  short  wash  periods  in  low  conductivity  water.  Thus  the 
slow  changes  mentioned  above  may  at  this  point  result  from  simply  a 
longer  time  required  for  the  surface  to  "dry  out"  after  the  washing  treat- 
ment. However,  a  substantial  difference  in  the  physical  properties  of  the 
oxide  layer  left  by  the  two  etches  concerned  is  still  implied.  In  this  con- 
nection it  is  also  worth  noting  that  hysteresis  effects  appear  primarily  in 
unformed  units  made  on  HF  treated  surfaces. 

The  results  of  these  experiments  have  important  implications  in  the 
technology  of  point  contact  transistors.  The  results  of  an  application  of 
these  results  to  transistor  forming  procedures  are  given  in  the  following 
section. 


4.    RELATION     OF     GERMANIUM     SURFACE     PROPERTIES     TO     TRANSISTOR 
FORMING 

4.1  Pilot  Production  Problems 

The  pilot  production  and  early  manufacturing  stages  of  cartridge- 
type  point-contact  transistors  has  generally  been  characterized  by  peri- 
ods during  which  the  forming  yields  have  been  very  high  and  similar 
periods  of  very  low  yield.  Often  these  alternate  periods  occurred  during 
the  use  of  germanium  taken  from  the  same  rod-grown  or  zone-leveled 
crystal.  Considerable  effort  has  been  expended  in  attempting  to  corre- 
late these  variations  in  yield  to  variations,  from  crystal  to  crystal,  or 
in  different  portions  of  the  same  crystal,  or  such  bulk  properties  as  re- 
sistivity or  minority  carrier  lifetime.  Although  these  properties  of  ger- 
manium do  have  some  effect  on  device  parameters  such  as  average  alpha, 
reverse  emitter  current,  and  Ico ,  there  has  not  been  any  positive  indica- 
tion that  variations  in  yield  are  attributable  to  the  amount  of  variation 
of  bulk  properties  normally  found  in  the  germanium  which  meets  the 
specifications  of  the  particular  device  concerned. 

This  problem  was  compounded  during  the  early  stages  of  the  develop- 
ment of  the  process  for  hermetically  sealing  the  point-contact  transistor. 
It  was  found  that  although  reasonable  yields  were  obtained  in  the  car- 
tridge process,  equivalent  transistors  in  the  hermetically  sealed  structure 
were  made  only  with  greatly  reduced  yield.  Further,  although  micro- 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  797 

manipvilator  units  could  be  made  with  no  difficulty,  the  same  material 
fabricated  into  a  completed  structure  showed  completely  different  char- 
acteristics. In  the  course  of  investigation  of  this  problem,  it  was  ofund 
that  the  nature  of  the  germanium  surface  treatment  and  specifically 
treatments  calculated  to  produce  or  react  with  germanium  oxide  can 
profoundly  affect  the  "formability"  of  the  germanium  surface  as  well 
as  a  number  of  other  transistor  parameters  in  the  fabricated  units. 

It  is  the  purpose  of  this  section  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  con- 
sidering the  surface  properties  of  germanium  in  attempting  to  solve  such 
specific  problems  of  development  encountered  in  devices  of  this  type. 
In  particular,  the  striking  variability  of  transistor  forming  on  etched 
germanium  surfaces  subjected  to  varying  chemical  treatments  and  am- 
bients  will  be  described,  as  well  as  the  effects  of  such  pre-forming  treat- 
ments on  the  parameters  of  the  finished  units.  The  experiments  discussed 
in  the  previous  section  indicate  how  changes  in  the  double  layer  at  the 
germanium  surface  can  influence  the  characteristics  of  an  unformed 
point  diode.  In  turn,  the  experiments  below  indicate  how  the  character- 
istics of  the  unformed  diode  are  related  to  the  device  properties  of  the 
transistor  collector  produced  by  forming  the  diode. 

4.2  Experimental  Results 

4.2.1  Pilot  Process  Forming  Yields 

The  forming  yield  of  a  point-contact  transistor  is  determined  by  the 

\'alues  of  the  acceptance  criteria  and  the  allowable  limits  for  each  of  these. 

Often,  different  criteria  as  well  as  different  forming  techniques  are  used 

j  for  different  transistors,  so  that  direct  comparison  of  results  is  quite 

I  

complex.  There  are,  however,  certain  common  requirements  placed  on 
all  point-contact  transistors: 

(a)  The  unit  is  formed  so  that  the  average  alpha  is  roughly  two  or 
more.  The  collector  current  at  a  relatively  high  emitter  current  and  low 

!  collector  voltage  is  usually  an  approximate  measure   of  this  value, 
/c(6,  —5)  for  example. 

(b)  The  collector  current  with  no  emitter  current  flowing  should  be 
as  low  as  is  commensurate  with  the  first  objective. 

The  other  transistor  parameters  are  either  directly  or  indirectly  re- 
lated to  these.  The  number  of  pulses  required  to  achieve  the  minimum 
forming  objective,  therefore,  is  one  direct  measure  of  the  formability  of 
a  particular  transistor;  the  average  alpha  obtained  after  pulsing  is  an- 
other. However,  one  must  consider  both  average  alpha  and  Ico ,  since 
\\  hile  forming  to  a  given  average  alpha,  the  Ico  may  increase  prohibi- 


798  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

19 

^  18 
O 

z 

tr   1  7 

o 

u. 

\^    16 


<    1  5 

5 
z 

m 
I 

"t.  1  3 
T 


12 


tr 

U 


1  1- 


10 


A, 

micromanipulator/  \ 

n 

^ 

/\ 

N 

/^ 

i  ) 

-\ 

\ 

l\ 

r 

N 

r 

\/ 

\ 

1 

Y 

A 

U 

V      header/ 

k 

^ 

k 

A 

U 

^^ 

Ly 

^^ 

-\ 

/; 

U1 

M 

1 

V 

V' 

V 

/ 

KJ 

'  yX  UNITS     ? 

/ 

N 

J 

W 

4  6  8  10  12  14  16 

GROUP   FROM    SAME    ZONE   LEVELED  BAR 


18 


20 


Fig.  13  —  A  pilot  production  process  control  chart. 


tively.  In  later  sections  the  authors  have  adopted  the  ratio  Ic(Q,  —5) 
/c(0,  —20)  as  a  measure  of  the  success  of  the  forming. 

The  2N21  transistor  is  a  hermetic  seal  version  of  a  point -contact 
medium-speed  switching  transistor.  During  the  early  stages  of  the  de- 
velopment of  this  device,  it  became  evident  that  although  similar  ger- 
manium and  point  wire  are  used  for  l^oth  structures,  the  electrical 
parameters  by  which  the  devices  are  characterized  belong  to  different 
universes.  However,  if  the  geometery  of  the  2N21  unit  is  duplicated  in 
a  manipulator  transistor,  the  resulting  device  parameters  do  resemble 
those  of  the  earlier  unsealed  unit.  It  is  therefore  likely  that  an  unknown 
variable  in  the  2N21  process  is  responsible  for  the  different  universes 
mentioned  above.  The  effect  of  such  a  variable  is  shown  in  Fig.  13,  which 
shows  a  chart  of  a  continuous  process  control.  Each  point  represents 
the  average  of  foin-  different  units  sampled  at  the  particular  point  in  the 
process  denoted  in  the  legend.  The  micromanipulator  data  represents 
measurements  taken  on  wafers  which  have  been  processed  up  to  but  not 
including  point  wire  attachment.  The  curve  denoted  ''header"  repre- 
sents data  taken  immediately  after  the  point-wire  attachment.  This  is 
one  additional  process  step  beyond  th(^  point  at  which  the  manipulator 
data  was  found.  It  is  evident  from  this  curve  that  a  severe  degradation 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


799 


Table  VII 


Treatment 


None 

ZnCl2-NH4Cl  Flux 
Flux  and  heat .... 


Ave.  No.  of 
Pulses  to  Form 


2 
3 

7 


Average 
/c(6,  -5) 


-13.8  ma 

-13.5 

-10.4 


Average 
/c(0,  -20) 


-1.7  ma 

-1.8 
-6.0 


Fig.  of  Merit 
/c(6,  -5)/ 
IciO,  -20) 


8.1 
7.5 
1.7 


in  the  attainable  average  alpha  has  oeciirred  even  though  the  forming 
objective  was  the  same.  Finally,  the  curve  denoted  "unit"  represents 
data  on  the  first  four  completed  units  out  of  the  same  group  from  which 
the  manipulator  and  header  samples  were  taken,  A  slight  decrease  in 
average  alpha  is  ol^serA^d  at  this  point.  However,  previous  experience 
has  indicated  that  this  is  an  expected  effect  caused  by  the  addition  of  the 
impregnant.  This  chart  suggests  that  the  point  soldering  operation  in 
the  process  is  causing  a  significant  degradation  in  the  formability  of 
transistors  passing  through  this  step.* 

This  process  step  consists  of  placing  the  germanium  wafer,  which  has 
already  been  etched  and  mounted  on  the  header,  in  a  point  alignment 
tool.  The  point  spacing  and  force  is  adjusted  and  the  points  are  then 
soldered  to  the  header  point-wire  support.  In  the  early  stages  of  this 
process  a  corrosive  zinc  chloride-ammonium  chloride  solder  flux  was 
necessary  to  obtain  efficient  soldering.  The  effect  of  this  solder  flux  on 
the  formability  of  micromanipulator  transistors  made  on  such  surfaces 
is  shown  in  Table  VII.  These  units  were  formed  to  the  acceptance  cri- 
terion of  Vc(S,  —5.5)  ^  2.0  volts.  Each  figure  represents  the  average 
of  ten  imits  treated  in  the  same  way. 

The  value  of  the  use  of  a  figure  of  merit  such  as  suggested  earlier  is 
illustrated  in  this  table.  Since  the  average  alpha  (denoted  here  by 
/c(6,  —5)  is  related  to  the  forming  objective,  one  might  presumably 
keep  forming  until  the  average  alpha  was  the  same  as  for  an  easily  formed 
transistor.  In  this  case  Ico  tends  to  increase.  Under  these  conditions,  if 
one  examined  only  average  alpha,  the  data  might  easily  be  misleading. 
From  an  examination  of  the  figures  of  merit  in  Table  VII  one  concludes 
that  the  corrosive  flux  plus  a  heating  cycle  tends  to  degrade  the  ger- 
manium surface  to  such  an  extent  that  transistors  are  formed  only  with 
great  difficulty. 

The  finiction  of  a  flux  during  the  soldering  process  is  to  remove  any 


*  Curves  of  this  nature  have  also  been  obtained  by  N.  P.  Burcham  in  in- 
vestigation of  soldering  flux  effects  in  hermetically  sealed  point  contact  transis- 
tor processes. 


800 


TEH   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


Table  VIII 


Treatment 

No.  of  Pulses 
to  Form 

Average 
/c(6,  -5) 

Average 
/c(0,  -20) 

Figure  of  Merit 
/c(6.  -5)/ 
IciO.  -20) 

3  min.  in  normal  superoxol 

etch 

1  min.  in  48%  HF 

2 
4 
1 

—  15.5  ma 

-10.2 

-17.7 

-0.69  ma 

-3.2 

-1.9 

22.4 
3.2 

1  min.  in  30%  H2O2 

9.3 

oxides  which  are  present  so  that  a  good  solder  joint  may  be  made.  Since 
the  oxide  on  chemically-etched  germanium  is  likely  of  the  soluble  form, 
one  might  assume  that  the  results  of  Table  VII  imply  that  the  action 
of  the  flux  and  heat  tends  to  dissolve  or  remove  this  layer.  Also  implied 
by  the  data  is  that  the  presence  of  such  an  oxide  layer  is  essential  to 
efficient  forming. 

The  experiments  summarized  in  Table  VIII  further  substantiate  this 
hypothesis.  These  data  represent  manipulator  transistors  made  on  the 
same  germanium  wafers  which  had  been  treated  in  succession  to  a  normal 
superoxol  etch,  a  treatment  in  48  per  cent  hydrofluoric  acid,  and  a  treat- 
ment in  hydrogen  peroxide,  superoxol  strength.  Since  the  soluble  form 


of  germanium  dioxide  is  known  to  react  with  hydrofluoric  acid,  it  is 
presumed  that  the  action  of  the  HF  is  to  partially  or  wholly  remove  any 
oxide  left  by  the  etch.  The  H2O2  tends  to  restore  the  original  surface 
conditions  left  by  the  etch.  Each  figure  represents  the  average  of  five 
transistors  formed  to  the  2N21  acceptance  criterion,  (Vc(S,  —5.5)  ^ 
2.0  volts). 

In  this  case  the  hydrogen  peroxide  treated  units  have  an  extremely 
high  average  alpha,  but  the  Ico  is  also  higher  than  for  normally  etched 
units.  In  terms  of  the  device  properties,  a  unit  with  a  more  or  less  typical 
average  alpha  with  a  low  Ico  is  more  desirable  than  the  one  Avith  an 
extremely  high  average  alpha  but  accompanying  high  Ico  •  It  has  not 
been  determined  whether  the  Ico  would  be  lower  for  the  superoxol  treated 
units  if  it  had  been  possible  to  form  to  the  same  average  alpha  as  the 
normally  etched  units.  This  is  an  important  piece  of  device  design  in- 
formation which  is  currently  under  investigation. 

It  is  clear  from  these  experiments  that  the  nature  of  the  germanium 
surface,  and  most  probably  the  nature  of  the  germanium  oxide  layer  on 
it,  to  a  large  extent,  determines  the  properties  of  the  transistor  formed 
on  this  surface.  Direct  application  of  this  knowledge  to  the  fabrication 
process  of  the  hermetically  sealed  point  contact  transistor  has  been 
carried  out  by  N.  P.  Burcham. 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


801 


4.2.2  Relation  of  Unformed  Diode  Characteristics  to  Transistor  "Forma- 
bility" 

From  the  results  of  the  previous  sections,  it  appears  that  superoxol- 
etched  germanium  surfaces  treated  with  reagents  in  which  germanium 
dioxide  is  soluble  provide  point  contact  diode  characteristics  unsuited 
to  electrical  pulse  forming.  Part  of  this  difficulty,  manifested  in  the  in- 
ability to  reach  a  specified  value  of  average  a  without  a  prohibitive  in- 
crease in  I  CO ,  probably  results  from  a  lower  injection  efficiency,  7,  for 
the  emitter  on  such  a  surface.  This  seems  reasonable  in  view  of  the  lower 
forward  and  higher  reverse  currents  indicated  in  Table  III  produced  by 
an  HF  soak.  In  Section  4.2.3  evidence  will  be  shown  that  surface  recom- 
bination is  greater  on  n-type  germanium  surfaces  treated  with  HF.  This 
effect  can  also  lead  to  difficulty  in  forming  to  high  a  without  increase 
in  Ico ,  since,  for  the  same  drift  field,  one  would  expect  more  minority 
carriers  to  die  at  the  surface  during  their  transit  to  the  collector. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  is  evidence  for  believing  that  the  nature  of 
the  forming  process  itself  may  be  quite  different  on  an  HF  treated  sur- 
face. Fig.  14(a)  shows  the  time  dependence  of  the  collector  voltage  dur- 
ing a  typical  condenser  discharge  forming  pulse. 

The  envelope  of  the  voltage  pulse  follows  roughly  an  exponential  de- 
cay of  a  condenser-resistor  series  combination.  However,  inspection 
shows  that  during  the  discharge  time,  the  resistance  of  the  combination 

400 


300 


_l 
o 

>  200 


z 

> 


100 


V 

(a) 

v 

Ih 

r\ 

y'«^ 

t,    V 



y 

r 

^ 

r- 

— 

I— ( tri 

..LU 

Z  liJ 
uj  Q- 

q:  < 

D 

o  z 


(b) 

n  / 

— 

s 

A^ 

^U 

l> 

~^ 

S- 



50  100  150         200         250         300         350 

TIME    IN    MICROSECONDS 


400 


450 


500 


Fig.  14  —  Collector  current  and  voltage  versus  time  for  a  condenser  discharge 
forming  pulse. 


802  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


if) 

o 
> 

2 
> 


300 
200 
100 

V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

^- 

0 

. 

0     50    100    150   200   250   300   350   400   450   500 
TIME  IN  MICROSECONDS 

Fig.  15  —  Forming  voltage  pulse  for  HF  treated  surface. 

undergoes  a  succession  of  breakdown  and  recovery  intervals.  In  Fig. 
l-l(b)  is  the  accompanying  plot  of  current  against  time.  Comparison  of 
these  two  plots  shows  that  following  the  application  of  the  voltage,  the 
resistance  of  the  contact  decreases  until  a  rather  sudden  more  rapid  de- 
crease in  resistance  occurs,  taking  place  at  time  h  .  In  view^  of  this  time 
scale,  the  first  decrease  can  be  attributed  to  a  heating  of  the  contact, 
a  form  of  thermal  breakdoAvn  at  the  metal-semiconductor  surface.^^ 
Any  reason  invoked  to  account  for  the  second  more  rapid  decrease  in 
resistance  must  account  for  the  short  time  (a  few  /xs)  in  which  this  change 
occurs.  In  any  event,  shortly  after  the  second  "breakdown,"  a  quenching 
results,  with  the  collector  resistance  returning  to  a  \'alue  nearer  to  its 
original  value.  This  sequence  of  events  is  roughly  repeated  until  the 
condenser  is  discharged. 

The  properties  of  the  contact  at  nominal  reverse  voltage  and  currents 
are  usually  changed  as  soon  as  one  such  condenser  discharge  pulse  has 
occurred,  and  often  one  such  pulse  is  sufficient  to  reach  the  forming  ob- 
jective. A  typical  forming  pulse  obtained  under  similar  conditions  to 
those  for  Fig.  14  is  shown  in  Fig.  15,  with  the  exception  that  the  surface 
has  been  treated  in  HF  for  a  few  minutes.  On  this  case  it  is  apparent  that 
the  second,  rapid  breakdown  is  entirely  absent.  The  well-defined  form- 
ing pulse  of  Fig.  14  is  usually  obtained  on  surfaces  with  good  pre-forming 
diode  characteristics,  and  results  in  production  of  a  usable  transistor. 

From  results  of  the  previous  sections  it  is  well  established  that  etched 
surfaces  treated  with  reagents  in  which  germanium  dioxide  is  soluble 
provide  point  contact  diode  characteristics  unsuited  to  electrical  pulse 
forming. 

It  is  often  assumed,  on  the  basis  of  the  results  of  Valdes,^  that  forming 
effects  result  from  the  diffusion  of  impuiities  from  the  point  into  the 
semiconductor  during  the  forming  pulse.  Since  the  high  temperature 
required  for  such  diffusion  results  from  the  power  dissipated  at  the  metal 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE   EFFECTS 


803 


to  semiconductor  contact,  more  efficient  forming  probably  results  on 
surfaces  which  display  very  low  initial  saturation  currents.  On  surfaces 
which  produce  a  poor  initial  rectifying  diode,  the  local  energy  of  the 
forming  pulse  may  be  dissipated  too  far  out  into  the  bulk  of  the  semi- 
conductor. This  situation  would  result  in  inefficient  forming. 

Since  the  low-voltage  diode  characteristics  and  the  forming  are  proba- 
l)ly  related,  one  should  be  able  to  predict  the  "foi-mability"  of  any  par- 
ticular surface.  Fig.  16  shows  that  this  can  be  done  qualitatively.  In  the 
(!,raph  each  point  represents  the  average  of  at  least  five  units  formed 
on  electro-etched  surfaces  to  the  forming  objective,  Fc(3,  —5.5)  ^  2.0 
^'olts.  Fig.  16(a)  represents  the  reverse  emitter  current  before  forming 
plotted  on  a  log  scale  versus  the  percentage  of  units  taking  more  than  five 
pulses  to  form.  The  reverse  emitter  current  rather  than  the  reverse  col- 
lector current  is  a  desirable  preforming  parameter  to  use  since  this  pre- 


100 

80 

Z   60 

UJ 

o 

cr 
LU  40 

D. 
20 


(a)     PERCENTAGE     OF     UNITS    TAKING    MORE 
THAN    5    PULSES  TO    FORM    TO  Vc(3,-5.5)<2 

y 

y 

/. 

^•" 

X 

• 

_ 

.^ 

— 

• 

t 

1 

dV, 

(b) 

=  IGURE    OF    MERIT    FOR    THE    SAME 

ZA 

• 

FORMED   TRANSISTORS 

I 

20 
"o    16 

V     • 

\ 

k^ 

6_ 
8 

• 

^ 

s 

N 

^ 

• 

« 

* 

""^•■> 

* 

4 

■■■ 

• 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0.02  0.04        0.06  0.1  0.2  0.3      0.4  0.6     0.8    1.0 

CURRENT, Igl'^OjO)    IN    MILLIAMPERES     (BEFORE    FORMING) 


Fig.  IG  —  Relation  of  forming  to  pre-forming  characteristics:  electro-etched 
surfaces. 


804       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOUKNAL,  JULY  1956  } 

eludes  any  premature  forming  which  could  occur.  This  curve  shows  that 
a  low  reverse  emitter  current  (high  back  impedance)  is  associated  with 
easy  forming  and  that  a  high  reverse  emitter  current  is  associated  with 
hard  forming.  Fig.  16(b)  represents  data  on  the  same  group  of  units 
with  /c(6,  —  5)//c(0,  —20)  plotted  versus  the  reverse  emitter  current  on 
a  log  abscissa.  It  is  significant  to  note  that  the  figure  of  merit  is  consist- 
ently high  for  units  with  low  reverse  emitter  current  and  low  for  units 
with  high  reverse  emitter  currents.  It  was  possible  to  achieve  this  wide 
range  in  reverse  currents  on  the  same  material  by  adjusting  the  current 
density  in  the  manner  summarized  by  Table  V.  In  each  case  a  high  cur- 
rent density  results  in  the  low  reverse  currents. 

Some  other  oxidizing  agents  may  be  used  interchangeably  with  the 
materials  just  discussed.  A  dilute  nitric  acid  solution  produces  a  surface 
on  which  excellent  diode  properties  are  observed  and  good  forming  re- 
sults on  these  surfaces.  It  has  also  been  found  that  a  treatment  in  potas- 
sium cyanide  results  in  a  surface  which  appears  to  be  well  oxidized. 
There  are,  however,  some  indications  that  certain  chemical  treatments 
tend,  more  than  others,  to  passivate  the  germanium  surface  to  any  sub- 
sequent treatment. 

Although  it  has  been  shown  that  variations  in  the  surface  oxide  layer 
markedly  affect  the  transistor  made  on  that  particular  surface,  varia- 
tions in  forming  yield  such  as  illustrated  by  the  manipulator  line  in  Fig. 
13  are  still  unaccounted  for.  The  etching  procedure  in  the  fabrication  of 
the  point  contact  transistor  has  always  been  one  of  the  most  carefully 
controlled  steps.  It  therefore  becomes  necessary  to  examine  the  process 
for  some  subtle  interaction  between  the  germanium  surface  and  the 
ambient  to  which  the  surface  is  subjected  during  processing. 

4.2.3  Controlled  Ambient  Experiments 

The  experiment  summarized  by  Fig.  17  represents  a  "dry  box"  ex- 
periment designed  to  investigate  the  effect  of  ambient  on  the  forming 
yield.  Ten  germanium  wafers  were  mounted  on  hermetic  seal  headers, 
they  were  electro-etched,  and  then  five  treated  for  one  minute  in  HF. 
The  wafers  were  rinsed  in  deionized  water,  dried  for  three  minutes  in  a 
stream  of  nitrogen,  and  placed  in  a  nitrogen  dry  box  where  the  relative 
humidity  was  maintained  at  less  than  1  per  cent.  One  micromanipulator 
transistor  was  formed  on  each  wafer  immediately  and  then  at  subsequent 
intervals  of  one  day,  always  in  widely  different  locations  on  the  wafer. 
These  manipulations  Mere  carried  out  inside  the  dry  box  using  rubber 
gloves  so  that  at  no  time  was  the  RH  greater  than  1  per  cent.  After  two 
days  the  box  was  opened  to  room  air  and  the  experiment  continued. 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS 


805 


ETCHED  FOR  1  MINUTE  IN 
IN   0.1%  KOH   AT  5  MA. 


SAME   ETCH  FOLLOWED 

BY  1   MINUTE  IN   48%  HF 


< 

5 


z 
oi 
cr 

^ 


DRY   Ns" 


ROOM 
AIR 


''V 


■~9— 


(a) 

Ie(+0.5,  0) 
BEFORE   FORMING 


16 


if) 

_l 

D 


12 


O    8 
d: 

LJJ 
CD 

5    4 

D 

z 


D    2 


5 

z 

UJ 

5 


^ 


r' 


-9" 


""V 


(b) 

NUMBER  OF  FORMING 
PULSES  REQUIRED  TO 
FORM  TO  Vc(3,-5.5)<2 


V 

(c) 

^ 

FORMING 

^ 

"^ 

y^ 

■— - 

■"^ 

\ 

C 

'~~«. 

~^o 

•o- 

>-— -- 

> 

0.5 


1.0 


1.5 


2.0         2.5         3.0        3.5         4.0        4.5 
DAYS  AFTER   ETCHING 


5.0 


5.5 


6.0 


Fig.  17  —  Effect  of  storage  ambient  on  transistor  characteristics  —  electro- 
etched  surfaces. 

Each  point  on  Fig.  17  represents  the  average  of  five  units  on  five  differ- 
ent wafers. 

The  difference  in  the  electrical  properties  of  the  two  surfaces  in  air 
already  noted  in  previous  sections  is  observed.  In  addition  an  increase 
in  surface  recombination  is  indicated  on  the  HF  treated  surface  by  a 
decrease  in  the  turn-off-time  measurement  (TOT).*  Finally,  any  influence 
of  ambient  on  the  electrical  properties  of  the  two  surfaces  used  is  ap- 
parently small. 

4.2.4  A  Statistical  Survey  Experiment  on  Transistor  Forming 

The  experiment  described  here  was  designed  to  check  some  of  the 
effects  noted  in  earlier  sections  as  well  as  to  investigate  possible  interac- 
tions between  the  germanium  surface  and  various  ambients  experienced 
during  the  processing  of  point  contact  units.  The  experimental  design 

*  TOT  is  a  nonparametric  measurement  indicative  of  the  switching  speed  when 
used  in  a  specific  circuit. 


806 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1950 


Table  IX  —  Experimental  Design  of  Randomized  Block 

Experiment 


Surface  Treatments 

A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

Ambient  Shelf  Conditions 

Electro 

1  min.  H2O2 

after 

Normal 

Etch 

1  min.  H2O2 

1  min. 

HF  after 

Normal 

Etch 

1  min.  HF 

Normal 

Etch  5  ma. 

after 

after 

Superoxol 
Etch 

for  1  min. 

in  0.1% 

KOH 

Normal  Etch 

and  Shelf  in 

Ambient 

Normal 
Shelf  in 
Ambient 

Formed  immediately 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

after  treatment 

Formed  after  shelf  in 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

room  ambient 

Formed    after    shelf 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

over  drierite 

Formed  after  shelf  in 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

dry  No 

Formed  after  shelf  at 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

76.5%  RH 

Note:  Shelf  represents  storage  for  24  hours. 

used  is  a  5  X  6  randomized  block  experiment  with  multiple  subgroups.^* 
Table  IX  shows  the  general  plan  of  the  experiment.  The  six  columns 
represent  different  etch  treatments,  and  the  five  rows  represent  some  pos- 
sible variations  in  storage  conditions.  Each  subgroup  represents  five 
transistors,  and  the  experiment  represents  a  total  of  150  transistors  made 
on  germanium  from  the  same  zone-leveled  slice,  given  30  different  treat- 
ments. Although  nine  measurements  were  made  for  each  transistor,  the 
figure  of  merit  appeared  to  be  most  significantly  dependent  on  the 
treatments. 

As  expected  from  the  results  already  quoted,  the  major  variability 
was  found  in  units  formed  on  surfaces  freshly  treated  with  HF,  with 
considerable  improvement  in  formability  during  storage.  However, 
the  looked  for  influence  of  storage  ambients  does  not  appear  when  the 
column  F  has  been  removed  from  consideration.  One  concludes  that  the 
variation  between  treatments  is  small,  and  the  effect  of  ambient  is  even 
less  than  the  effect  of  the  treatments.  Thus  when  surface  treatment  does 
not  vary  to  extremes,  the  effect  of  storage  ambient  is  relatively  minor. 
Thus  variations  found  in  such  experiments  as  exemplified  on  the  manipu- 
lator line  in  Fig.  13  must  be  attributed  to  a  still  unknown  factor. 

4.2.5  Effect  of  Contamination  Before  Etching 

Since  etching  removes  the  damaged  surface  and  is  usually  done  with 
highly  corrosive  materials,  it  seems  unlikely  that  any  contamination 


POINT-CONTACT  TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  807 

before  etching  could  affect  the  efficiency  of  etch.  There  have,  however, 
])een  some  indications  that  this  does  occur.  Certain  chemical  treatments 
appear  to  passivate  the  surface  to  any  subsequent  treatment,  for  ex- 
ample, the  results  in  Sections  4.2.3  and  4.2.4.  The  electro-etched  sur- 
face followed  by  an  HF  treatment  does  not  change  rapidly  with  time  in 
room  air,  while  the  superoxol-etched  .'^urface  followed  by  an  HF  treat- 
ment changes  quite  rapidly.  Surfaces  which  have  been  etched  in  CP4 
and  subseciuently  treated  in  HF  appear  to  be  as  stable  as  electro-etched 
surfaces.  Subsec^uent  treatments  in  superoxol  do  not  appear  to  result  in 
significant  changes  in  the  surface  characteristics.  Experiments  on  un- 
ctched  germanium  wafers  indicate  that  none  of  the  components  of  CP4 
alone  will  prevent  normal  etching,  but  if  an  unetched  Avafer  is  treated 
with  a  combination  of  50  per  cent  nitric  acid  plus  48  per  cent  HF  for  a 
few  moments,  the  surface  will  be  stabilized  as  to  retard  the  formation  of 
the  normal  pyramidal  etch  pattern  when  the  eurface  is  etched  in  super- 
oxol  etch.  Taken  together  these  ol)servations  may  imply  that  certain 
types  of  oxide  surfaces  are  more  stable  than  others  and  perhaps  may  even 
])e  passivated  to  subsequent  environmental  conditions. 

With  this  background  of  information  it  becomes  more  believable  that 
chemical  treatments  before  etching  could  affect  the  surface  of  the  ger- 
manium resulting  from  the  subseciuent  etching.  It  is  not  unreasonable 
to  believe  that  any  variation  in  surface  potential  resulting  from  pre-etch 
treatment  might  influence  the  reaction  between  the  etchant  and  the 
germanium.  An  experiment  was  performed  using  gold-bonded  bases  to 
isolate  the  contribution  of  the  solder  flux  normally  used  in  the  base- 
wafer  attachment.  Twenty  wafers  from  the  same  slice  were  divided  into 
four  subgroups  of  five.  The  groups  were  treated  in  such  a  way  that  any 
effects  of  HF  or  solder  flux  soaking  before  superoxol  etching  could  ])e 
detected. 

The  results  of  this  experiment  do  indicate  that  presence  of  flux  before 
etching  significantly  affects  the  collector  currents  and  turn-off  time  of 
transistors  made  on  such  surfaces.  Although  there  was  no  apparent  dif- 
ference in  forming  yield  between  sub-groups,  it  is  felt  that  this  variation 
would  show  up  as  a  difference  in  forming  yield  in  a  process  where  the 
forming  efficiency  is  decreased  somewhat  by  the  impregnant. 

4. .3  Conclusions 

Treatment  of  an  etched  surface  with  germanium  dioxide  solvents  such 
as  HF  or  KOH  degrades  the  surface  to  such  an  extent  that  transistor 
forming  efficiency  is  decreased.  A  similar  effect  is  produced  by  corrosive 
flux  and  heat.  Thus,  pre-forming  measurements  may  be  used  to  predict 


808       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

the  formability  of  a  particular  germanium  surface.  It  is  shown  that  poor 
diode  characteristics  are  usually  associated  with  poor  forming  yields. 
One  convenient  way  of  controlling  the  diode  characteristics  to  ensure 
successful  forming  is  to  etch  electrolytically.  High  current  density  results 
in  the  most  desirable  surface  characteristics.  Electro-etched  germanium 
which  has  been  subsequently  treated  in  hydrofluoric  acid  shows  little 
tendency  to  oxidize  either  in  room  air  or  dry  nitrogen  ambient,  while 
superoxol-etched  germanium,  given  the  same  HF  treatment,  changes 
quite  rapidly  in  room  air  presumably  due  to  oxidation  of  surface.  Sulli- 
van^^  has  also  observed  differences  in  the  stability  of  electro-etched  and 
chemically-treated  surfaces. 

Different  surfaces  can  be  prepared  chemically  which  show  more  than 
the  amount  of  variation  normally  found  in  pilot  and  manufacturing 
process  lines.  However,  extreme  variations  in  storage  ambients  have 
relatively  little  significant  effects  on  any  of  these  surfaces.  It  is  therefore 
concluded  that  although  certain  chemical  treatments  may  affect  forming, 
the  variations  in  process  yields  are  not  attributable  to  interaction 
between  the  germanium  surface  and  storage  ambients. 

The  results  of  Sections  4.2.2  and  4.2.3  suggest  the  possibility  of  passi- 
vation of  the  germanium  surface.  An  electro-etched  surface  followed 
by  an  HF  treatment  exhibits  a  higher  degree  of  stability  to  ambient 
than  does  a  superoxol-etched  surface  treated  in  the  same  way.  Treat- 
ment of  a  lapped  germanium  surface  with  two  components  of  CP4 
(HF  -f  HNO3)  will  inhibit  subsequent  etching  in  superoxol. 

The  possibility  that  contamination  before  etching  may  affect  the  char- 
acteristics of  the  germanium  surface  after  etching  is  considered.  Experi- 
ments show  that  contamination  of  the  germanium  with  corrosive  zinc 
chloride-ammonium  chloride  flux  before  etching  significantly  affects  the 
rectification  properties  of  the  germanium  surface  obtained  after  etching. 
The  surface  recombination  velocity  (in  so  far  as  it  is  determinative  of  the 
turn-off  time  of  the  transistor)  is  also  significantly  affected.  However, 
on  the  basis  of  the  results  quoted  here,  it  is  not  possible  to  conclude 
that  such  contamination  can  account  for  an  appreciable  amount  of  the 
unassignable  variability  in  forming  yields  experienced  in  pilot  and  manu- 
facturing process  lines  involving  soldered  base-wafer  connections. 

5.    GENERAL   CONCLUDING   REMARKS 

The  experiments  which  have  been  described  have  implications  which 
are  important  in  both  design  and  processing  of  point-contact  transistors. 
These  are  summarized  below: 


POINT-CONTACT   TEANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  809 

5.1  Point-Contact  Transistors  with  High  Current  Gain 

In  most  switching  applications  the  combination  of  high  current  gain 
and  low  reverse  current  is  desirable.  The  measurements  of  current  gain, 
taken  together  with  the  potential  probe  measurements  in  Section  2.2.1, 
indicate  that,  for  the  structures  used  here,  the  reverse  collector  current 
at  operating  voltage  must  be  large  enough  to  set  up  a  substantial  drift 
field  before  efficient  collection  of  holes  can  occur.  If  this  condition  is  not 
met,  either  the  unit  has  low  gain  at  all  values  of  emitter  current  (un- 
formed), or  develops  a  bistability  of  the  kind  described  in  Section  2.3 
(partially  formed).  For  a  given  structure,  the  drift  field  can  be  increased 
by  increasing  resistivity  of  the  germanium  at  the  expense  of  increased 
base  resistance.  Here  thermal  stability  of  the  contact  also  provides  a 
limit.  A  more  likely  expedient,  in  the  case  of  germanium,  is  to  decrease 
the  area  of  the  formed  collector  junction  by  using  sharper  points  and 
modified  forming  technique.  The  limits  here  are  produced  by  reliability 
requirements  for  mechanical  stability  of  the  point  structure. 

5.2  Current  Multiplication  in  Unformed  Transistors 

Many  experiments  have  reported  on  junction  transistors  with  high 
current  gains  which  are  attributable  to  the  p-n  hook  mechanism.  The 
high  values  of  current  gain  observed  with  conventionally  formed  point 
contact  transistors  have  been  attributed  to  various  mechanisms,  among 
,  which  is  the  hypothesis  of  a  p-n  hook  structure,  primarily  in  the  bulk  of 
the  germanium,  introduced  by  the  pulsing  of  the  donor-doped  point.  In 
particular,  at  small  emitter  currents  small  signal  a-values  in  conven- 
tionally formed  collectors  may  reach  values  as  high  as  ten,  and  values  of 
a  as  large  as  100  are  encountered  in  formed  collectors  exhibiting  anoma- 
lous output  characteristics.  However,  the  average  a  over  a  6-ma  emitter 
current  range  is  usually  near  the  value  of  3.1  which  would  be  expected 
from  the  mobility  ratio  of  holes  and  electrons  with  the  Type-A  transis- 
tor geometry.  The  increase  in  reverse  current  of  a  formed  collector  by 
t  addition  of  donor  to  the  point  wire  may  result  from  the  production  of  a 
hook  structure.  However,  information  is  needed  concerning  the  impor- 
tance of  the  hook  structure  in  accounting  for  the  high  values  of  a  en- 
countered at  low  emitter  currents,  or  in  connection  with  collector  char- 
acteristic anomalies  in  conventionally  formed  point-contact  transistors. 

The  unformed  transistors  discussed  in  this  article  differ  from  electri- 
cally formed  units  in  that  the  collector  barrier  is  the  one  at  the  metal- 
semiconductor  surface.  It  has  been  found  that  certain  chemical  treat- 
ments can  produce  a  collector  barrier  which  allows  an  increased  reverse 


810       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

current  flow  and  a  substantial  drift  field  near  the  emitter.  Some  of  these 
units  show  an  a  vahie  at  all  emitter  currents  quite  comparable  in  magni- 
tude to  that  of  conventionally  formed  collectors,  and  surface  treatment 
alone  can  also  introduce  in  these  unformed  collector  characteristics 
anomalies  similar  to  those  found  in  some  formed  units.  It  is  difficult  to 
visualize  a  p-n  hook  structure  arising  at  the  germanium  surface  as  a  re- 
sult of  the  chemical  treatments  discussed.  If  such  a  possibility  is  pre- 
cluded, the  p-n  hook  mechanism  does  not  seem  necessary  to  the  attain- 
ing of  high  a  values  at  low  emitter  currents,  or  an  a  emitter  current 
dependence  of  the  kind  normally  observed  in  anomaly-free  units.  To 
account  for  values  of  a  obtained  with  unformed  collectors  at  low  emitter 
currents,  other  mechanisms,  such  as  the  suggestion  of  Shockley,  involv- 
ing hole  trapping  in  the  germanium  under  the  collector  point *"'  ^  or  the 
suggestion  of  Van  Roosbroeck,  involving  conductivity  modulation, 
might  in  this  case  be  more  suitable. 

Further,  unformed  transistors  made  by  appropriate  chemical  treat- 
ments can  duplicate  qualitatively  the  electrical  characteristics  of  con- 
ventionally formed  units,  including  alpha-emitter  cvuTent  dependence 
and  output  characteristic  anomalies  of  types  (1),  (2)  and  (3).  These 
phenomena  can  thus  occur  under  circumstances  where  a  well-defined 
hook  structure  is  improbable. 

5.3  Surface  Properties  and  Transistor  Fornmig 

It  has  been  found  that  a  major  factor  in  determining  the  forming  yield 
of  point-contact  transistors  is  the  chemical  history  of  the  surface.  Thus 
in  processing  of  point-contact  transistors,  major  attention  should  be 
paid  to  ensuring  chemical  control  of  the  base  wafer  surface  if  the  forming 
yield  is  to  be  kept  high.  On  the  other  hand,  considerable  variation  may 
apparently  be  tolerated  in  storage  ambients.  Of  course  it  has  not  been 
shown  that  such  variations  in  storage  conditions  do  not  have  an  efl'ect 
on  subsequent  reliability  of  the  product.  Processes  which  permit  expos- 
ure of  surfaces  to  solder  fumes  either  before  or  after  etching  are  to  be 
regarded  with  suspicion.  Monitoring  of  the  reverse  emitter  diode  char- 
acteristics should  prove  useful  as  a  means  of  securing  proper  control  of 
the  pre-forming  surface. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  help  of  M.  S.  Jones,  who  carried 
out  many  of  the  experiments  mentioned  here,  and  N.  Carthage  who  did 
the  electroetching  work.  The  continued  support  and  encouragement  of 
N.  J.  Herbert  has  been  greatly  appreciated. 


1- 


POINT-CONTACT   TRANSISTOR   SURFACE    EFFECTS  811 


KEFERENCES 

1.  J.  Bardeen  and  W.  H.  Brattain,  Physical  Principles  Involved  in  Transistor 

action,  Phvs.  Rev.  75,  p.  1213,  April  15,  1949. 

2.  J.  Bardeen  and  W.  G.  Pfann,  Effects  of  Electrical  Forming  on  the  Rectifying 

Barriers  of  n-  and  p-Germanium  Transistors,  Phys.  Rev.  77,  p.  401-402, 
Feb.  1,  1950. 

3.  W.  Shockley,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  D.  VanNostrand  Com- 

pany, New  York,  N.  Y.,  p.  110. 

4.  Reference  3,  p.  111. 

5.  L.  B.  Valdes,  Transistor  Forming  Effects  in  n-Type  Germanium,  Proc.  I.R.E. 

40,  p.  446,  April,  1952. 

6.  W.  Shocklev,  Iheoiies  of  High  Values  of  Alpha  for  Collector  Contacts  on 

Geimanium,  Phys.  Rev.  78,  p.  294-295,  May  1,  1950. 

7.  W.  R.  Sittner,  Current  Midti]  licalion  in  the  Type  A  Transistor,  Proc.  I.R.E. , 

40,  pp.  448-454,  April,  1952. 

8.  Valdes  (Reference  5j   reports  large  concentrations  of  copper  present  in  the 

p-germanium  under  heavily  formed  phosphor-bronze  points. 

9.  W.  G.  Pfann,  Significance  of  Composition  of  Contact  Point  in  Rectifjing 

Junctions  on  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.  81,  p.  882,  March  1,  1951. 

10.  C.  S.  Fuller  and  J.  D.  Struthers,  Copper  as  an  Acceptor  Element  in  Germa- 

nium, Phys.  Rev.  87,  p.  526,  Aug.  1,  1952. 

11.  C.  S.  Fuller,  Diffusion  of  Acceptor  and  Donor  Elements  into  Germanium, 

Phys.  Rev.  86,  p.  136,  April  1,  1952. 

12.  Reference  5,  p.  448. 

13.  Personal  communication,  H.  E.  Corey,  Jr. 

14.  L.  E.  Miller,  Negative  Re.sistance  Regions  in  the  Collector  Characteristics  of 

Point  Contact  Transistors,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  p.  65-72,  Jan.  1,  1956. 

15.  Reference  1,  p.  1225. 

16.  John  Bardeen,  Surface  States  and  Rectification  at  a  Metal  Semiconductor 

Contact,  Phys.  Rev.,  71,  p.  717-727,  May,  15,  1947. 

17.  I.  Tamm,  iiber  eine  Mogliche  Art  der  Elektronenbindung  an  Kristallober- 

flitchen,  Physik,  Zeits,  Sowjetunion,  1,  1932,  p.  733. 

18.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  J.  Bardeen,  Surface  Properties  of  Germanium,  B.  S.  T.  J. 

32,  pp.  1-41,  Jan.,  1953. 

19.  W.  L.  Brown,  n-T}'pe  Surface  Conductivity  on  p-Tvpe  Germanium.  Phvs. 

Rev.  91,  pp.  518-527,  Aug.  1,  1953. 

20.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  C.  G.  B.  Garrett,  private  communication. 

21.  R.  D.  Heidenreich,  private  communication. 

22.  O.  H.  Johnson,  Germanium  and  its  Inorganic  Compounds,  Chem.  Rev.  51, 

pp.  431-469,  1952. 

23.  M.  Kikurchi  and  T.  Onishi,  A  Thermo-Electrical  Study  of  the  Electrical 

Forming  of  Germanium  Rectifiers,  J.  App.  Phys.,  24,  pp.  162-166,  Feb.,  1953. 

24.  R.  H.  Kingston,  Water-Vapor  Induced  n-Type  Surface  Conductivity  on  p- 

Type  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  98,  1766-1775,  June  15,  1955. 

25.  M.  V.  Sullivan,  personal  communication. 

26.  J.  T.  Law,  A  Mechanism  for  Water  Induced  Excess  Reverse  Current  on  Grown 
Germanium  n-p  Junctions,  Proc.  I.  R.  E.,  42,  pp.  1367-1370,  Sept.,  1954. 

27.  E.  Billig,  Effect  of  Minority  Carriers  on  the  Breakdown  of  Point  Contact 
^  Rectifiers,  Phys.  Rev.  87,  p.  1060,  Sept.  15,  1952. 

28.  G.  W.  Snedcor,  Statistical  Methods,  The  Iowa  State  College  Press,  Ames, 

Iowa,  1946. 

29.  W.  VanRoosbroeck,  Design  of  Transistors  with  Large  Current  Amplification, 

J.  App.  Phys.,  23,  p.  1411,  Dec,  1952. 


The  Design  of  Tetrode  Transistor 

Amplifiers 

By  J.  G.  LINVILL  and  L.  G.  SCHIMPF 

(Manuscript  received  March  7,  1956) 

The  design  of  tetrode  transistor  amplifiers  encounters  problems  of  the  type 
that  occurs  with  other  transistor  uses.  Desired  frequency  characteristics, 
limitations  of  parasitic  elements,  and  other  practical  considerations  impose 
constraints  on  the  range  of  terminations  that  can  he  employed.  With  many 
transistors,  one  can  terminate  a  transistor  so  that  it  will  oscillate  without 
external  feedback;  this  oscillation  or  other  exceedingly  sensitive  terminations 
must  be  avoided. 

The  two-port  parameters  of  the  transistor  in  any  orientation  in  which  it 
is  to  be  used  constitute  the  fixed  or  given  information  which  is  the  starting 
point  of  the  amplifier  design.  Using  this  starting  point,  methods  are  de- 
veloped by  which  one  can  select,  on  simple  bases,  the  kinds  of  terminations 
that  will  be  suitable.  To  facilitate  the  design  of  amplifiers,  a  set  of  charts  has 
been  developed  from  which  one  can  read  power  gain  and  input  impedance 
as  functions  of  the  load  termination. 

Illustrative  tetrode  amplifiers  are  described.  These  include  a  common  base 
20-mc  video  amplifier,  a  common-emitter  10-mc  video  amplifier,  an  IF 
amplifier  centered  at  SO  mc,  and  an  IF  amplifier  centered  at  70  mc.  Pre- 
dicted and  measured  gains  are  compared. 

INTRODUCTION 

Junction  tetrode  transistors^  of  the  type  currently  produced  for  re- 
search purposes  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  are  suitable  for  high- 
frequency  applications.  They  are  being  studied  for  use  in  video  ampli- 
fiers, as  IF  amplifiers  where  the  center  frequency  is  below  100  mc,  for 
oscillators  up  to  1,000  mc  and  for  very  fast  pulse  circuits. 

Their  application  in  amplifiers  brings  up  design  considerations  similar 
to  those  encountered  for  other  transistors  but  with  differences  resulting 

1  R.  L.  Wallace,  L.  G.  Schimpf  and  E.  Dickten,  A  Junction  Transistor  Tetrode 
for  High-Frequency  Use,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  pp.  1,395-1,400,  Nov.  1952. 

813 


814       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOUENAL,  JULY  1956 

from  different  parameter  values  and  variation.  The  analysis  presented 
in  this  paper  regarding  amplifier  design  was  motivated  by  the  study  of 
t(>trodes,  but  the  results  are  ecjuall}^  applicable  for  other  types. 

The  design  of  an  amplifier  begins  with  a  characterization  of  the 
transistor  which  is  suital)le  for  the  study  of  its  performance  as  an  am- 
plifier. From  this  characterization,  or  functional  representation,  one 


CORRESPONDING     QUANTITIES 


I 

n 

n 

E 

h„ 

z„ 

yii 

911 

h,2 

Z12 

yi2 

912 

ha, 

Z2, 

y2, 

92, 

h22 

Z22 

y22 

922 

I, 

I, 

E, 

E, 

E, 

E, 

I, 

I, 

E2 

I2 

E2 

I2 

I2 

E2 

I2 

E2 

Es 

Es 

Is 

Is 

Zs 

Zs 

Ys 

Ys 

Yl 

Zl 

Yl 

Zl 

Zl 

Zl 

yl 

Yl 

Yo 

Zo 

Yo 

Zo 

RELATIONSHIPS  BELOW  ARE  BETWEEN  QUANtrjl 
IN  COLUMN  I.  CORRESPONDING  RELATIONSHIPS] 
WRITTEN  DIRECTLY  FOR  CORRESPONDING  QUA^^ 
IN   ANY    OTHER    COLUMN. 


(1)    E,=  I,h„  +  E2h,2 


(2)    l2=  I,h2,+E2h22 

h,2h2, 


(3)  Zl=  h„  - 


(4)    Yo 


(5)     1,= 


Yl  +  1^22 
h,2h2i 


^zz 


Zs  +  h„ 
h2,EsYL 


(h„  +  Zs)(h22  +  YL)-h,2h2, 


Fig.  1  — Two-port  parameters  with  summary  of  relationships. 


THE    DESIGN    OF   TETRODE    TRANSISTOR    AMPLIFIERS  815 

determines  the  potentialities  of  amplifiers  employing  the  transistor  and 
designs  a  suitable  amplifier  circuit.  This  step  in^'olves  answering  two 
(luestions:  What  performance,  maximum  power  gain  for  instance,  is  it 
possible  to  obtain?  What  source  and  loatl  impedances  should  the  tran- 
sistor be  associated  with? 

Two-Port  Parameters  of  Transistors 

For  circuit  applications,  the  two-port  parameters  are  the  most  con- 
venient for  characterization  of  the  transistor.  These  parameters  implicitly 
but  completely  characterize  the  device  from  the  performance  standpoint. 

Four  sets  of  two-port  parameters  are  illustrated  in  Fig.  1.  Any  set  can 
be  calculated  from  any  other  set,  and  the  choice  of  the  set  to  employ  is 
determined  only  by  convenience  in  the  use  of  available  measuring  eciuip- 
ment  and  the  preference  of  the  designer.  The  relationships  between 
parameters,  input  and  output  impedances,  voltage  and  current  ratios 
are  summarized  on  Fig.  1.  The  same  expressions  given  there  for  /i's  can 
be  used  for  any  parameter  set  so  long  as  one  uses  the  corresponding 
quantities  applicable  to  the  desired  parameter  set. 

Though  the  transistor  can  be  operated  as  an  amplifier  with  the  base, 
emitter  or  collector  common  between  the  input  and  output  terminal 
pairs,  the  two-port  parameters  for  any  of  the  connections  can  be  used 
to  calculate  the  parameters  for  any  other  connection. 

For  determination  of  the  two-port  parameters  of  tetrode  transistors, 
R.  L.  Wallace  suggested  the  use  of  two-terminal  impedance  measure- 
ments with  subsec^uent  calculation  of  the  two-port  parameters  of  in- 
terest from  these.  The  impedances  indicated  in  Fig.  2  have  proved 
simple  to  measure  at  typical  operating  points  with  conventional  high- 
:  frecjuency  bridges.  These  impedances  have  been  measured  at  a  set  of 
frequencies  extending  to  30  mc.  Because  of  the  number  of  transistors 
measured  it  has  been  economical  to  program  a  digital  computer  to  cal- 
culate two-port  parameters  and  other  ciuantities  of  interest  from  the 
measured  two-terminal  impedances. 

THE    RELATIONSHIPS    OF    TRANSISTOR    PARAMETERS    TO    AMPLIFIER    PER- 
FORMANCE 

Any  of  the  sets  of  two-port  parameters  implicitly  characterize  all  of 

I  the  linear  properties  of  the  transistor  for  the  range  of  frequencies  for 

which  the  parameters  ha\'e  been  measured.  As  mentioned  before,  it  is 

necessary  to  translate  the  parameters  into  answers  to  the  following 

questions.  How  much  amplification  can  the  transistor  give  at  a  particular 


816 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


frequency?  What  impedance  should  it  be  supplied  from?  What  impedance 
should  it  feed?  What  gain  will  be  obtained  using  a  pair  of  impedances 
different  from  the  optimimi  ones?  The  answering  of  these  and  related 
(juestions  amounts  to  establishing  a  convenient  means  of  translating 
the  parameter  values  into  the  ciuantities  of  interest  applying  to  the 
amplifier.  Such  a  convenient  translating  means  for  solving  these  problems 
is  described  in  this  section. 

Earlier  explicit  solutions  to  special  cases  of  the  problem  are  well  known. 
Wallace  and  PietenpoP  have  given  simple  expressions  in  terms  of  the 
transistor  parameters  for  matching  input  and  output  impedances  and 
the  maximum  available  gain  when  the  transistor  has  purely  real  parame- 
ters. An  implicit  solution  for  optimum  source  and  load  impedances  for 
maximum  gain  in  the  complex  case  has  been  known  for  a  long  time.  It 
is  simply  that  the  transistor  be  terminated  at  the  input  and  output  by 
conjugate  matching  impedances.  The  implicit  nature  of  this  solution 
arises  from  the  fact  that  the  input  impedance  is  a  function  of  the  load 
impedance,  and  the  output  impedance  is  a  function  of  the  source  impe- 
dance for  transistors  wdth  internal  feedback.  The  solution  for  optimum 
source  and  load  impedance  from  this  approach  amounts  to  the  solution 
of  simultaneous  quadratic  equations  with  complex  unknoA\nis  and  be- 
comes involved. 


c 

■) 

/ 

le 
■    > 

r 

-X 

"h 

J) 

h- 

v^ 

V( 

Fig.  2  —  Two  terminal  impedance  measurements  for  determination  of  two-port 
parameters. 

^  R.  L.  Wallace  and  W.  J.  Pietenpol,  Some  Circuit  Properties  of  n-p-n  Transis- 
tors, Proc.  I.R.E.,  39,  pp.  753-67,  July,  1951. 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS  817 

From  the  approach  to  the  problem  taken  in  this  paper,  one  solves  first 
for  the  maximum  power  gain  and  subsequently  determines  the  optimum 
terminations.  It  turns  out  that  the  solutions  leads  to  explicit  relation- 
ships for  optimum  performance  and  terminations  and  also  leads  to 
charts  from  which  power  gains  and  input  impedance  can  be  read  for  any 
terminations. 

In  all  expressions  to  be  developed,  the  h  parameters  are  used.  Pre- 
cisely the  same  expressions  can  be  obtained  for  z's,  y's,  or  ^'s  provided 
that  one  uses  the  corresponding  quantities  in  the  table  of  Fig.  1. 

The  maximum  power  gain  is  a  quantity  of  primary  interest  in  tran- 
sistors since  the  transistor  ordinarily  has  a  resistive  component  in  its 
driving-point  impedance.  Thus  voltage  or  current  amplification  is  con- 
strained by  the  limited  power  gain  attainable.  In  some  cases,  however, 
because  of  the  inherent  feedback  internal  to  the  device,  instability  can 
result  simply  from  proper  passive  terminations  without  application  of 
any  additional  feedback.  Such  cases  are  distinct  because  of  this  property. 
Transistors  exhibiting  this  possibility  are  said  to  be  potentially  unstable 
at  the  frequency  in  question. 

A  quantity  of  interest  presented  here  and  derived  later  is  a  particular 
power  gain  defined  for  /i-parameters  as 


power  out  _  Poo  _  |  h 


21 


power  in        Pm       4:hnrh22r  —  2ReQinh2i) 


(1) 


where  hnr  and  h^ir  mean  the  real  part  of  hn  and  of  /122  •  ReQinhi^  means 
the  real  part  of  the  product  of  /ii2  and  hn  .  Unless  the  amplifier  is  po- 
tentially unstable,  the  quantity  Poo/Pio  is  M'ithin  3  db  of  the  maximum 
available  gain  for  the  transistor. 

The  matter  of  potential  instability  of  the  transistor  is  of  great  interest. 
Certainly  the  transistor  is  potentially  unstable  if  Poo/-Pio  is  negative. 
Otherwise  potential  instability  is  indicated  by  greater  than  unity  values 
of  the  criticalness  factor 


C  =  2^ 

PiO 


h2i 


(2) 


If  the  transistor  is  not  potentially  unstable  the  maximum  available 
gain  is  Ko(Poo/Pio)  where 

K,  =  ^(1  -  ^[^'^  (3) 

For  O^C^  1,1  ^  Ko  ^  2.  A  plot  of  Kg  as  a  function  of  C  is  shown 
in  Fig.  3.  The  function  is  seen  to  be  exceedingly  flat  near  Kg  =   1  for 


818 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


C  between  zero  and  0.6.  Thus  the  value  Pm/Pio  in  the  majority  of  cases 
^^•here  the  transistor  is  not  potentially  unstable  is  a  close  approximation 
to  the  maximum  available  gain. 

The  optimum  source  and  load  impedances  can  be  expressed  in  terms 
of  the  transistor  parameters  and  other  quantities  given  in  terms  of  them 
by  the  following  relationships  where  the  transistor  is  not  potentially 
unstable. 


G 


1 


irg  i  —  hnhn)  =  e 


je 


Zs  opt  =  Zin  =  hn 


hnh 


21 


CKgG^ 


Zh'>'>r 


Yl  opt  =  —ho-z  + 


2h 


22r 


1 


CKgG 

2 


(4)^ 

(5) 

(6) 


Though  explicit  relationships  for  ideal  terminations  and  for  the  maxi- 
mum power  gain  which  one  can  achieve  with  a  transistor  are  of  interest, 
such  terminations  limit  the  band  width  of  the  amplifiers.  Therefore,  it 
is  important  to  have  convenient  means  for  evaluating  power  gain  and 
input  impedance  for  other  than  ideal  terminations  in  order  to  realize  a 
desired  bandwidth.  A  chart  which  facilitates  computation  of  these  quan- 
tities is  now  developed  from  an  analysis  which  leads  to  the  other  results 
quoted  above. 


Kf 


2.0 
1.5 

/ 

/ 

1.0 

0.5 
0 

0.2 


0.4 


0.6 

c 


0.6 


1.0 


1.2 


Fig.  3  —  K^  plotiod  ms  a  f  unci  ion  of  C. 


^  If  —hxih^i  \s  c  +  jd,  then  d  =  tau~'(r//c) ;  G  =  c'    and  —hvihn  is  the  conjugate 
of  —hiohii  . 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOR    AMPLIFIERS 


819 


Power  Flow  in  a  Two-Port  Device 

A  convenient  point  of  departure  in  the  analysis  of  power  amplification 
iu  a  transistor  or  other  linear  two-port  device  is  the  arrangement  shown 
ill  Fig.  4.  The  two-port  is  supplied  by  a  unit  current  at  the  frequency  of 
interest  and  at  reference  phase  at  the  input  terminal  pair.  The  output  of 
the  two-port  is  connected  to  a  voltage  source  of  the  same  frequency.  The 
input-current  and  output-voltage  time  functions  are 


ti 


=  Re\/2€'"'  =  ReV2li£'"' 


(7) 


iiid 


=  ReV2(a  +  jb)e^"'  =  ReV2(L  -f  jM)  (-AA 

\2h22r/ 


jolt 


(8) 


=  Re\^E2e 


jat 


In  (8),  L  and  M  are  introduced  for  simplicity  in  some  later  relation- 
ships. 

The  whole  analysis  is  essentially  a  study  of  power  flow  in  the  circuit 
shown  in  Fig.  4  as  L  and  M  of  (8)  are  varied.  All  possible  terminations 
and  excitations  can  be  simulated  simply  by  varying  L  and  M.  Under 
some  conditions  the  voltage  source  will  absorb  power;  under  others  it 
w  ill  supply  power  to  the  two-port.  Ordinarily  the  current  source  supplies 
power  to  the  two-port,  but  for  appropriate  ranges  of  L  and  M  if  the  two- 
l)ort  is  potentially  unstable,  the  transistor  may  supply  power  both  to  the 
current  source  and  the  voltage  source.  The  problem  of  evaluating  maxi- 
mum power  gain  is  simply  finding  the  values  of  L  and  M  corresponding 
lo  the  greatest  ratio  of  power  out  to  power  in.  The  load  impedance  to 
which  this  situation  corresponds  is  E-il  —  l-i  .  The  input  impedance  for 
t  his  condition  is  simply  £"1//! ,  and  the  optimum  source  impedance  is 
the  complex  conjugate  of  the  latter  quantity. 


Ii=i+jo 


I 


£2=  a+jb  = 


Fig.  4  —  A  two-port  device  .supplied  bj^  a  current  source  and  feeding  into  a 
voltage  source. 


820 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


Fig.  5  —  Sketch  of  power  output  as  a  function  of  L  and  M. 


PROJECTION  IN   L-M  PLANE  OF  GRADIENT 

LINE  IS  G  OR  Arg-h,2h2, 

^21^12 


SLOPE  OF   PLANE   ALONG   G  IS 


2h 


22r 


Fig.  6  —  Sketch  of  power  input  as  a  function  of  L  and  M. 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS  821 

The  output  power  can  be  readily  evaluated  in  terms  of  L  and  M. 

h    =    /l/i21   +  ^2/i22  (9) 

/2  =  (1  +  mn  +  (L  +  jM)h,,  tM  (10) 

I  Powerout  =  Po  =  fl«(-^2/!)  (11) 

^  ^^  [-(L  -jM)h,  ^^  _  ,  ^  ^j,^  ^^^  (12) 

L  2/i22r  4/i22r        J 


'21   r  /t2      ,       tit2\       ^21 


|2 


On  the  basis  of  (13)  the  power  output  plotted  as  a  function  of  L  and 
M  is  a  paraboloid  as  shown  in  Fig.  5,  having  the  pertinent  dimensions 
indicated  there.  Only  within  the  circle  centered  at  L  =  1,  ikf  =  0  and 
passing  through  the  origin  does  one  obtain  positive  power  output.  The 
apex  of  the  paraboloid  corresponds  to 

P,  =  P,„  =  IM  (14) 

4/i22r 

The  input  power  can  similarly  be  evaluated  in  terms  of  L  and  M. 

El  =  hhn  +  E^hn  (15) 

=  (1  +  jO)hn  +{L+  jM)  t^  hn  (16) 

Power  in  =  Pi  =  Re[E,h]  (17) 

{  —  h2^)hn 


Pi  =  Re 


hn  +  (L  +  jM) 


2h 


22r 


(18) 


7  T  Ti       (^12^2l)        ,         Tirr  \h\2h2V  f-,rs\ 

=  hur  -  LRe  — T —  +  MIm  -— —  (19) 

where  /m[(/ii2/i2i)/2/i22r]  means  the  imaginary  part  of  the  expression  in 
parenthesis. 

On  the  basis  of  Eq.  19  the  input  power  plotted  as  a  function  of  L  and 
M  is  simply  an  inclined  plane  having  the  properties  indicated  on  Figure  6. 

Since  Figures  5  and  6  turn  out  to  be  such  simple  geometrical  figures 
the  problem  of  finding  the  point  of  maximum  ratio  of  Po  to  P,  is  very 
simple  and  other  interpretations  are  easy  to  make.  First,  a  negative  value 
of  Pio{Pi  at  1,  0)  certainly  indicates  potential  instability  for  both  input 
and  output  terminations  receive  power  from  the  two-port.  Even  if  the 
plane  of  P.-  intersects  the  L-M  plane  within  the  unit  circle  centered  at 


822 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  195G 


1,  0,  then  the  two-port  is  potentially  unstable  since  on  one  side  of  the 
intersection  both  input  and  output  terminations  receive  power  from  the 
two-port.  The  change  in  Pi  from  the  minimum  value  found  on  the  unit 
circle  centered  at  1,  0  to  Pio  divided  by  Pjo  is  the  criticalness  factor,  C. 
A^alues  of  C  greater  than  unity  indicate  potential  instability. 
The  power  input  at  1,  0  is 


-PiO 


2hnrh22r  —  Re{hnh2i) 


2h 


11r 


Using  (14)  and  (20),  one  obtains 


00 


/i21 


Pio       4/iiir/i22r  —  2Re{hi2h2i) 


hnfh 


12«21 


C 


2/l2 


'2hiirfl22r   —   Ke{hi2'l21J 


=  2 


00 


PiO 


hu 
h2i 


(20) 


(21) 


(22) 


2h 


22r 


Now  if  the  plane  of  power  input,  Fig.  G,  is  parallel  to  the  L-M  plane 
and  above  it,  certainly  the  point  of  maximum  power  gain  is  the  apex  of 
the  paraboloid,  1,  0  in  Fig.  5.  If  the  plane  is  incliued  but  alwaj's  above 
the  unit  circle  centered  at  1,  0  certainly  the  point  of  maximum  power 
gain  is  downward  along  the  gradient  line  which  lies  above  the  point  1,  0. 
This  must  be  so  since  for  any  contour  of  equal  power  out  (a  circle  of 
fixed  elevation  around  the  paraboloid)  the  minimum  power  input  (or 
greatest  gain)  lies  along  the  line  of  steepest  descent  from  1,  0  in  Fig.  6. 
Thus  the  problem  of  evaluation  of  the  maximum  available  gain  reduces 
to  the  simple  problem  of  finding  the  abscissa  of  Fig.  7  where  the  ratio  of 
ordinates  of  the  parabola  and  straight  line  is  a  maximum.  The  parabola 


Pl  or  Po 


PROJECTION  IN   L-M 

PLANE    OF   GRADIENT 

LINE    OF  PLANE 

THROUGH    1,0 


Fig.  7  —  Section  of  paraboloid  and  inclined  plane  of  Figs.  5  and  6. 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS 


823 


and  straight  line  are  sections  of  the  paral)oloid  and  plane  through  the 
gradient  line  of  the  plane  over  1,  0. 

A  straightforward  analysis  indicates  that  the  point  in  the  L-M  plane 
\\  here  the  maximum  of  Po/Pi  occurs  is  at 


L  +  jAI  =  1  - 


CKgG 


(23) 


^\liere  these  quantities  are  defined  as  in  (2),  (3),  and  (4).  The  power  gain 
cit  this  optimum  point  is  Kg  times  that  obtained  at  1,  0.  One  finds  that 
1  he  maximum  gain  is  only  two  times  Pm/Pio  even  if  C  approaches  unity 
A\  hich  corresponds  to  the  marginal  case  of  potential  instability. 
The  analysis  just  described  leads  to  the  maximum  values  of  power 

I  gain  and  to  the  best  terminating  impedances.  For  many  design  problems 
1  liese  answers  are  a  guide  but  one  may  prefer  to  use  other  than  optimum 

'  \alues  for  other  compelling  reasons.  For  such  a  case  charts  from  which 

I  one  can  get  the  pertinent  quantities  are  very  helpful. 


P^^IGUE    lN^DEGRee3 


G2+jB2=    YL+h22 

^22  —   i'22n  +jh22l 


Fig.  8  ■ —  Gain  and  impedance  chart. 


824 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


-1.0 


Pl=Plo(i  +  cx) 


C  =  2 


Pqo 


LO 


h„ 


hs, 


■0.8 


-0.6 


'21 


P'lo     4h„rh22r-2Reh,2h2i 


-0.4 


x=o 

■0.2 


LO 


0.2 


0.4 


0.6 


0.8 


ANGLE   OF"G"iN    L-M   PLANE   IS:    ARG    -^^z^z^ 

Fig.  9(a)  —  Input  power  as  a  function  of  X. 

Development  of  Transmission  and  Impedance  Charts 

The  same  point  of  departure  employed  in  the  evakiation  of  optimum 
cases  leads  to  a  convenient  set  of  charts.  Equation  12  shoAvs  that  a  setj 
of  concentric  circles  centered  at  1,  0  are  loci  in  the  L-M  plane  of  constant 
power  output  for  a  unit  current  source  at  the  input.  It  is  convenient  to 
plot  these  as  is  done  on  Figure  8,  showing  Pq  as  a  fraction  of  Poo  • 


h 


21 


Po 

Poo 


l-(L-lf-  M' 


(24) 


4/i 


22r 


Since  Yl  ,  the  load  admittance,  is  —I2/E2 ,  using  (10)  one  obtains 


-h 


=   Yl   =   -A22  + 


2h 


22r 


E2  -    '   L+  jM 

Now  it  is  clear  that  if  one  defines  G2  and  B2  by 

2/l?2r 


^2=^2+  JB2    =    Yl    +    h22     = 


L  +  jM 


(25) 


(26) 


THE   DESIGN    OF  TETRODE   TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS 


825 


loci  of  constant  real  and  imaginary  parts  of  Y2  become  the  mutually 
orthogonal  circles  shown  in  Fig.  8.  Thus  the  value  of  L  +  jM  is  deter- 
mined by  the  load  admittance  and  two-port  parameters. 

Contours  representing  constant  input  power,  with  equal  increments 
of  power  between  successive  contours,  are  always  parallel  equally-spaced 
lines  in  the  L-M  plane.  However,  as  may  be  seen  from  (19)  and  Fig.  6 
different  cases  have  different  directions  for  the  line  normal  to  the  con- 
tours, (the  gradient  line)  and  also  different  power  increments  for  a  given 
spacing  of  equal-power-input  contours.  It  is  convenient  to  define  a  new 
\ariable  A^  which  is  the  component  along  the  gradient  line  of  the  vector 
starting  at  L  =  1,  M  =  0  and  going  to  L,  M.  Thus 


Pi  =  P.o(l  +  CX) 


(27) 


Equation  27  suggests  Fig.  9(a)  which  shows  loci  of  constant  power  input 
plotted  as  a  function  of  X.  If  Fig.  9(a)  is  shown  on  a  transparent  ma- 


90 


1.8 


1.6 


1.4 


1.2 


1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


80 

^ 

70 

^ 

K 

^ 

'         z„-h„= 

\^  4( 

\  30 

^ 

. 

V,20 

\ 

V-10 

-  n 

0.2 


0.4 


0.6 


0.8 


1.0 


1.2 


1.4 


1.6 


h,ah 


2"21 


2h 


22r 


^(L.jM) 
^n22r 


R,+jx, 


1.8 


Fig.  9(b)  —  Input  impedance  as  a  function  of  L  and  M. 


826 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


terial,  its  center  (at  X  =  0  along  the  gradient  line)  can  be  superposed 
with  the  point  L  =  1,  ilf  =  0  of  Fig.  8.  With  the  gradient  line  of  Fig. 
9(a)  oriented  at  the  argument  of  —hnh^i ,  or  S  in  the  L-M  plane,  one  can 
easily  determine  graphically  the  power  gain  at  any  point  in  the  L-M 
plane  compared  to  the  power  gain  at  1,  0.  With  Fig.  9(a)  superposed  on 
Fig.  8  as  just  described  the  viewer  gets  a  bird's-eye-impression  of  tlic 
paraboloid  of  power  output  and  the  inclined  plane  of  power  input  simul- 
taneously. With  such  a  bird's-eye  view,  it  is  easy  to  assess  possibilities 
for  power  gain  with  all  possible  angles  of  load  termination. 

The  evaluation  in  input  impedance  is  done  through  use  of  (16)  from 
which  is  obtained 


^  =  Z,.  =  hn  +  (L  +  jM)  t^^ 


or 


Zin  =  hn  +  (L  +jM)(e-n 


hnh 


21 


Zhf22r 


(28) 


(29) 


For  evaluating  the  second  component  of  (29),  it  is  convenient  to  have 
a  second  transparent  overlay,  Fig.  9(b),  consisting  of  a  rectangular  grid 
to  the  same  scale  as  the  L-M  plane.  Fig.  8,  with  coordinates  marked  as 

(Zin  —  hn)  Ri 


and 


hiihii 

2/l22r 

hiohn 

2/l22r 

This  overlay  is  placed  over  the  L-M  plane  with  the 

^1 


hioh 


12fl'21 


2ihj22r 

axis  making  the  angle  d  with  respect  to  the  L  axis.  Thus  on  the  rec- 
tangular overlay  for  any  point  in  the  L-M  plane,  one  reads 

Zin    —   /ill 


hiih 


■21 


2/?.,. 


r.\i;TI('UL.\U   DESIGNS  OF  TETKODE  TRANSISTOR  AMPLIFIERS 

IMie  charts  and  optimum   rc^lationships  developed  in  the  preceding 
section  are  convenient  starting  points  in  the  design  of  amplifiers.  They 


THE    DESIGN    OF    TETRODE   TRANSISTOR    AMPLIFIERS  827 

do  not  ordinarily  constitute  a  finished  solution,  however,  since  practical 
constraints  frequently  modify  the  design  used.  Moreover,  all  of  the 
relationships  are  expressed  on  a  single  frequency  basis,  and  many  times 
the  amplifier  must  operate  over  a  range  of  frequencies  broad  enough  that 
parameters  change  significantly  over  the  range. 

Four  amplifier  designs  are  described  in  this  section:  a  single  stage, 
common-base,  20-mc  ^ddeo  amplifier;  a  common-emitter,  10-mc  video 
amplifier;  an  IF  amplifier  at  30  mc  and  a  60  to  80-mc  IF  amplifier. 
Parameter  measurements  made  with  bridges  support  the  first  three 
designs. 

Parameter  values  and  associated  constants  of  a  typical  tetrode 
transistor  are  given  in  Table  I.  The  quantities  shown  there  reveal  some 
interesting  facts  about  the  typical  tetrode  transistor  represented.  First, 
in  the  common-base  connection  the  tetrode  is  potentially  unstable  at 
30  mc  but  not  at  the  lower  fre(|uencies.  The  common-emitter  amplifier 
is  potentially  unstable  at  1  and  3  mc.  Second,  the  power  gains  of  common- 
emitter  and  common-base  stages  are  about  the  same  at  30  mc,  the  com- 
mon-emitter connection  giving  more  gain  at  low  frequencies. 

The  matter  of  potential  instability  requires  further  consideration  from 
a  practical  point  of  view.  Potential  instability  at  a  frequency  neither 
implies  that  a  stable  amplifier  cannot  be  built  at  that  particular  fre- 
quency, nor  does  it  imply  that  one  can  obtain  an  unlimited  amount  of 
stable  amplification  at  that  frequency.  It  does  mean  that  by  simul- 
taneously tuning  output  and  input  one  can  adjust  for  oscillation.  The 
region  of  potential  instability  corresponds  to  a  region  in  which  the  input 
resistance  may  be  negative  for  appropriate  loads.  Instability  is  avoided 
in  the  physical  amplifier  if  one  supplies  the  amplifier  from  a  sufficiently 
high  impedance  that  the  input  loop  impedance  always  has  a  positive 
real  part.  To  operate  the  amplifier  Avith  such  a  load  that  it  presents  a 
negative  resistance  to  the  source  is  attended  by  the  difficulty  that  the 
amplification  is  more  sensitive  to  changes  in  the  source  impedance  than 
it  is  when  the  input  resistance  is  positive.  Hence  the  possible  higher  gain 
with  internal  positive  feedback  goes  along  with  a  greater  sensitivity  to 
changing  termination  impedance. 

!  A  Common-Base  20-Mc  Video  Amplifier- 

The  data  presented  in  Table  1  gives  a  ciuite  comprehensive  picture 
of  possibilities  for  amplifier  designs.  To  it  must  be  added  a  practical 
fact.  It  is  difficult  to  connect  the  load  impedance  without  adding  about 
2  jujuf  of  capacitance.  This  means  that  any  termination  considered  must 
include  about  this  amount  of  capacitance.  By  a  theorem  regarding 


1 


828 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


CQ               «0 

'  CO 

fe^fe 

h    7 

y-i        O 

•            rH 

^-vO-'-v 

.^t^     . 

^i-H    ^O 

0(N      •,— ^ 

o 

Oi-H      ,     ■* 

Tt<      .<Nt^ 

d 

'-l(M"'-5>-H 

rO 

^•'^l    ,     •<>> 

I         00  + 
Ti-H      • 

I        1        '     + 

00        -*  t^o 

•  OiO       coo        O 

OOOOO     -lOCO 

•-IIM     1    COO     -Tt^      IC 

CO  I-H        •■"*!•*        •  O        lO 

•0-—  1  ^-'Tt<.-i<r>    i-H 

,-1 -^O  ^-"*  O  "-H      CO 

o 

CO 

CO 
1 

CO 

• 

o 

I-H  CO 

1 

O        f 

I-H 

^ 

•   ^o 

o 

•'-^       "  T-H 

^~N           y—t 

to  o   . 

_o 

H 

o 

•    ^^•-"x 

O       .l-H^-v 

O 

^l-H        -00 

,_i 

(M-'^Tf.-H 

o 

C^          '   -r-i 

■'^J   ,    ■^•<-s 

« 

u 

iC                   »Oo 

•  OOO        CIO 

o    ■  00  Tfi  T-H  r^  00    i-f 

H 

Oi-H    1    (M  t^      •  »0      f^ 

(M,-H      -COIN      -iM      '-I 

UJN^   1   ^— COO  CO      l> 

(M>^C^-~^,-iO>-i      <-< 

o 

eo 

CO 

1            <s 

1           >A 

5^ 

o"3  1 

O        1 

Eh 

•-'So 

th      (b 

!z; 

•   O  I— 1 

T-H 

< 

cop^-v 

_C5     _^-^ 

H 

-^    •  "^"5 

O     •cOt>. 

S 
^ 

O 

Or-<      ,     (N 

O 

o 

i-<N      -00        OS 

1    +  +  +             !L 
0,05                t^ 

•O      .0000         O 

O     -(N      •t^CO'-i      O 

Q 

CI  1—1    1    CD  CO      •  lO      <N 

Tfi  00      • --I  CD      •    1       lO 

w 

■*-^   1   — 'C^  O'*      --I 

^  ^Ci-t>.v_-io .-(  1     (N 

Eh 

<1 

CO 

o 
o 

1          •= 

CO                 «0 

2co<|r> 

t  t 

CC 

•  22'-" 

rH          rH 

CO 

^^o  . 

•               • 

< 

^.dcs" 

^co      00 

o 

•  <^  . 

o    . 

Q 

VH 

OO    ,   00 

^-jT^cooi 

C^    c~>    •  ■«-» 

;g 

■'^s   .    ■*     . 

<; 

•-^+co  + 

1    +'"^+ 

cc 

"Ti-i      -t^        C5 

1          1                  >o 
o  1  coo      ^ 

•  O     .Ot^o        o 

O        •                  .  CO  T-H  I— 1         I— 1 

tf 

OS  T-i    1   CO  '-I      •  O      IQ 

CO  CO  C^  00  CO    -I      00 

w 

Tt<^— •   1   ^^COO(N      1-H 

CO  ^ 'I— I^I-Hl— 1      1          CO 

PS 

g 

1        «» 

CO                 "» 

< 

Sioi, 

i=.  ^ 

K 

■  ?^'-* 

1-H           1—1 

,-^o  . 

•                • 

^  CD  CO 

00      ^ 

\q 

•  '-I    . 

d 

OO    ,    lO 

CO  (m' CO  CD 

1— I-C--V     • -c^ 

^   .    CO     , 

1— 1 

•-^+co  + 

1  +'^+      %. 

W 

i_        C5 

i-i-H    •  CO      00 

1             1                       CI 
o    1   -^  OOCO 

•O      -Ot-o         o 

o    •         -r^ooi-H     05 

hJ 

CI  r-(     1    CO  ■— 1       •  >— <       CO 

<N  (M  coco  lO      -1       "0 

P9 

Tt<--'    1    ■^eOO'-H       r-i 

!>.  ^^.-H  ^— -l-H  O     1         CO 

<1 

t-i 

0) 

+= 

o 

(D 

HJ 

;§ 

CO 

c9 

*§ 

pq 

w 

o 

0                  •»          s 

S               ~^     „.  - 

^< 

C3                         o       ,^    '-' 

-e 

(M 

3       rf      C<      -1      «      S            «>  r«;     (M 

S  r  ^  "  cS'CLt:-,  1 

o -<  •<  •*? -<  *^  "O    ' 

g  "s;  -sj -s;  rjg  Wh  <o   1 

O 

O 

1 

THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOE   AMPLIFIEES 


829 


passive  impedances  this  puts  an  upper  limit  on  the  level  of  impedance 
presented  by  the  load  over  a  band  of  frequencies.  The  greatest  possible 
constant  level  of  load  impedance  over  20  mc  is 


^1  ~C~o.- 


2.10-12. 2.10^- 27r 


=  7,96012 


(30) 


Thus  number,  though  not  strictly  applicable  to  this  case,  nonetheless 
gives  a  measure  of  the  sort  of  value  which  one  can  expect.  Hence  one 
observes  that  for  a  broad-band  video  amplifier  the  load  impedance  is 
certainly  going  to  be  considerably  less  than  1/|  /i22 1  which  up  to  10  mc 
is  not  less  than  15,000  ohms.  Moreover,  the  gain,  if  it  is  to  be  uniform, 
will  certainly  be  limited  by  the  gain  obtainable  at  20  mc. 

Recognition  that  the  load  admittance  will  be  a  number  of  times  h^ir , 


\.SfJ.IJ.P 


\^z\  ~0. 84-0.  93 

Fig.  10  ^ —  A  rough  approximant  for  the  common  base  video  amplifier.  The 
variation  of  |  /i.  21  |  is  a  function  of  frequency  and  not  variation  between  units. 

five  to  ten,  means  that  in  Fig.  8  one  will  be  operating  near  the  origin 
where  (L  +  jM)  is  much  less  than  one.  Thus  Z,-„  in  (28)  will  be  approxi- 
mately hn  •  Moreover,  by  superposing  Fig.  9(a)  on  Fig.  8  at  the  correct 
angle  for  a  frequency  of  30  mc  {d  =  —64°)  one  observes  that  negative 
power  input  occurs  only  in  the  small  section  of  circle  cut-off  by  a  chord 
running  from  the  80°  to  the  155°  points  on  the  periphery.  This  region  is 
quite  a  way  from  the  likely  point  of  operation.  Thus,  this  points  out  that 
the  low  impedance  termination  precludes  instability  due  to  internal 
feedback. 

If  the  amplifier  is  supplied  by  a  75-ohm  source,  its  output  admittance 
at  30  mc  (Equation  4,  Figure  1)  is  (7.0  +  ^20)  -10"^  mho.  At  10  mc  the 
output  admittance  is  (4.2  -f-  j8.8)-10~   mhos. 

These  computations  reveal  that  the  amplifier  in  the  common-base 
connection  appears  quite  like  the  model  shown  in  Fig.  10.  Clearly,  the 

^  H.  W.  Bode,  Network  Analysis  and  Feedback  Amplifier  Design,  D.  Van 
Nostrand  Co.,  New  York,  1945. 


830 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


o         COMPUTED   GAIN  USING 

25 

APPROXIMANT   OF   FIG.  10 
MEASURFD   GAIN   WORKING    INTO 

20 
15 

2000    OHM    RESISTIVE    LOAD 

MEASURED  GAIN   INTO   THE    LOAD 
SHOWN    ON    FIG.  12 

— i-W- 

•^-- 

1 

10 

^ 

i 

5 

0 

0.01    0.02 


0.05   0.1      0.2 
FREQUENCY 


0.5      1.0       2 
IN    MEGACYCLES 


5        10      20 
PER    SECOND 


50      100 


Fig.  11  — Measured  and  computed  gain  of  a  common  base  video  amplifier. 

amplification  is  obtained  through  the  ratio  of  impedances  of  load  to 
source. 

Since  it  is  impossible  to  match  the  output  impedance  for  maximum 
gain  due  to  reasons  outlined  above,  Equation  5  of  Fig.  1  can  be  used  to 
compute  the  gain  once  the  load  impedance  is  determined.  If  we  use  a 
load  impedance  of  2,000  ohms  and  a  source  impedance  of  75  ohms,  the 
difference  between  the  computed  gain  using  the  approximate  of  Fig.  10 
and  the  exact  expression  (Equation  5  of  Fig.  1)  amounts  to  less  than  1 
db  at  frequencies  up  to  10  mc.  At  30  mc,  the  exact  expression  results  in 
a  computed  gain  1.5  db  lower  than  that  obtained  from  the  approxima- 
tion. A  comparison  of  measured  and  computed  gain  for  a  common  base 
video  amplifier  is  shown  on  Fig.  11.  Using  a  resistive  load  of  2,000  ohms 
a  gain  of  14.5  db  is  obtained  at  low  freciuencies  and  the  response  is  down 
3  db  at  17  mc.  To  equalize  the  decreasing  |  h-n  \  with  frequency  and  the 
increasing  effect  of  the  capacitance,  a  load  consisting  of  an  inductor  and 
a  resistor  is  used.  The  circuit  is  shown  on  Fig.  12  and  it  ^^•ill  be  noted 
from  the  response  on  Fig.  11,  that  the  low  frequency  gain  is  14.5  dl)  with 
the  3  db  point  occurring  at  about  26  mc. 

Common  base  stages  can,  of  course,  be  cascaded  to  advantage  only  if 
impedance  transformation  is  provided  in  the  interstage  coupling.  Prac- 
tical transformers  or  coupling  networks  may  introduce  undesirable  band 
limitation.  In  the  next  section  we  will  consider  common-emitter  stages 
which  can  be  cascaded  without  impedance  transformation. 

Common  Emitter  10-Mc  Video  Amplifier 

To  get  a  first  idea  of  feasible  impedance  levels  for  a  common-emitter 
video  amplifier,  one  recognized  from  Table  I  that  the  input  impedance 


!1 


THE    DESIGN    OF   TETRODE    TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS 


831 


will  be  within  an  order  of  magnitude  of  /?ii  ,  perhaps  in  the  vicinity  of  500 
ohms.  One  sees  that  in  this  case  if  the  termination  impedances  are  equal, 
Yl  ^  h22 .  Again,  with  reference  to  Fig.  8,  the  point  of  operation  will  be 
close  to  the  origin  of  the  L-M  plane.  Again  the  input  impedance  approxi- 
mates All  .  The  output  admittance  is  given  by 


^22  — 


hnh 


12't21 


An  +  Zs 


^-4 


(31) 


land  if  Zs  =  500  12,  Yo  is  (3.3  +  il.0)10~  mhos.  A  rough  approximant  to 
the  common-emitter  transistor  is  shown  in  Fig.  13.  On  an  order  of  mag- 
initude  basis,  one  expects  an  iterative  power  gain  of  |  hn  f  per  stage. 
Final  choice  of  elements  amounts  to  computation  using  the  approxi- 
mant of  Fig.  13  and  experimental  adjustment. 

A  video  amplifier  circuit  employing  the  common  emitter  connection 
is  show-n  in  Fig.  14.  If  it  is  assumed  that  Ri  is  zero  and  no  compensating 
metwork  is  used  in  the  output  circuit,  the  gain  characterictic  can  be  com- 
iputed  from  the  approximant  of  Fig.  13,  or  if  desired,  using  the  exact 
expression  (Equation  (5)  of  Fig.  1).  The  two  methods  agree  to  within 


-4  5  V 


Fig.  12  —  Circuit  of  a  common  base  video  amplifier.  The  series  coil  compen- 
sates for  the  decrease  of  |  hn  \  with  increasing  frequency. 


:C 


4.5 


c 


3-9/J.fJ.P 


Fig,  13  —  An  approximant  for  a  common-emitter  stage  video  amplifier  when 
terminated  in  a  few  hundred  ohms.  The  variation  of  |  hii  \  and  C  are  a  function 
of  frequency. 


832 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


about  1  db  at  frequencies  up  to  10  mc.  Comparison  of  the  measured  and 
computed  values  is  shown  on  Fig.  15  for  a  load  of  500  ohms  with  no 
high-frequency  compensation.  The  low-frequency  gain  is  higher  than 
for  the  common  base  connection  but  the  response  is  down  3  db  at  7  mc. 
By  using  the  combination  of  Ri  in  parallel  with  800  nnf  in  the  emitter 
circuit,  negative  feedback  is  introduced  at  low  frequencies  which  results 
in  the  reduction  of  low  frequency  gain  tending  to  make  the  response 
more  uniform.  In  addition  the  L-C  network  has  been  added  in  the  output 
to  compensate  for  the  drop  of  |  /i2i  |  with  increasing  frequency  and  the 
increasing  effect  of  the  output  capacitance. 

This  results  in  the  response  shown  as  the  dotted  curve  on  Fig.  15.  The 
low-frequency  gain  has  been  reduced  to  17.5  db,  but  the  response  is  now 
flat  to  within  dzO.3  db  up  to  13  mc  and  is  3  db  down  at  18  mc. 

Although  the  data  given  on  video  amplifiers  shows  the  results  ob- 
tained using  one  transistor,  similar  response  curves  were  obtained  from 
some  6  or  8  units. 

An  I-F  Amplifier  Centered  at  30  Mc. 

The  design  of  an  IF  amplifier  at  30  mc  is  distinct  from  the  preceding 
two  cases  in  that  one  can  use  matching  techniques  over  the  narrow  band. 

Reference  to  Table  1  reveals  that  the  common-base  connection  pro-, 
vides  more  potential  gain  at  30  mc  than  the  common  emitter  connection; 
in  fact,  the  common-base  connection  can  be  made  to  oscillate  with 
certain  terminations.  The  common-base  connection  is  chosen  for  the 
30-mc  amplifier. 


Vc  =  1 0  V 


11-13yUH 


5-25/U/J-F 


^^ 


■5oon 


OUT- 
PUT 


i 


+  10.5V 


i-7.5  V 


Fig.  14  —  Circuit  of  a  common  emitter  video  amplifier.  7?i  in  parallel  with 
800  pLui  and  the  LC  network  in  the  output  circuit  peak  the  response  at  10  to  12 
mc. 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS 


833 


35 


«o  30 

_i 

UJ 

ffl 
O  25 

UJ 

o 


20 


< 

O 

a: 

UJ 

o 

Q 

to 

Z 
< 

a: 


15 


10 


o 

COMPUTED   GAIN,  500   OHM   LOAD 
NO   COMPENSATION 

MEASURED   GAIN.  500  OHM    LOAD 
NO  COMPENSATION 

MEASURED  GAIN,  500  OHM   LOAD 

HIGH   FREQUENCY  COMPENSATION 

SHOWN  ON   FIG.  14 

^, 

"n 

-^O 

\ 

\ 

\° 

0.01    0.02     0.05    0.1      0.2        0.5       1        2  5        10      20 

FREQUENCY    IN   MEGACYCLES    PER   SECOND 


50     100 


Fig.  15  —  Computed  and  measured  response  of  a  common  emitter  amplifier. 

In  the  design  of  the  IF  amphfier  one  is  mterested  in  a  moderate  range 
of  frequencies.  It  will  generally  be  true  that  the  most  frequency  de- 
,  pendent  parameters  are  the  output  and  load  admittances,  since  the  load 
is  to  be  tuned.  One  can  take  as  a  suitable  load  a  parallel  combination  of 
a  fixed  conductance  with  a  frequency  dependent  susceptance,  the  sort 
I  of  termination  typical  of  tuned  circuits.  Thus  on  Fig.  8,  the  locus  of 
!(r2  +  JB2  is  one  of  the  G2  =  Const,  circles. 

Superposition  of  Fig.  9(b)  on  Fig.  8  with  the 


huh 


urm 


2h 


22r 


axis  making  an  angle  of  —64°  with  the  L  axis  reveals  that  Z,„  —  hn 
has  a  negative  real  part  on  the  upper  left  edges  of  all  of  the  contours  of 
constant  G2 .  On  the  G2  =  2/i22r  contour,  Re{Zin)  reaches  a  minimum  of 
22.5  ohms.  We  select  a  load  with  Gl  =  2/i22r((?2  =  3/i22r)  to  avoid  low 
values  of  input  resistance  resulting  from  the  internal  feedback. 

Superposition  of  Fig.  9(a)  on  Fig.  8  with  the  gradient  line  making  an 
angle  of  —64°  through  the  point  L,  Tlf  =  1,  0  reveals  that  the  maximum 
value  of  Pa/ Pi  on  the  G2  =  3/i22r  circle  is  1.87  Poo/Pio  and  it  occurs  for 
B2  =  —  2/i22r .  The  input  impedance  at  this  point  is  36  +  jS7  ohms. 

For  an  amplifier  one  is  primarily  interested  in 

Po 


Power  Available  from  Source 


(which  is  called  transducer  gain)  rather  than  Po/Pi ,  the  quantities  just 


83-4 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


Rs+JXs 

to 

^Es 

Rln  +jXLn 

■Pi. 


Fig.  16  —  Typical  input  circuit. 

read  from  the  charts.  From  the  source-load  arrangement  shown  in  Fig. 
16,  one  readily  computes 

I  ^-' s   I  •'^tin 
Pi  '^  ^ 


{R.    +   RinY   +    (X.   +   XinY 


Power  Available  from  Source 


Es 


4:Rs 
'iihsJttin 


(32) 


(Rs   +   RinY   +    (Xs    +   XinY 

The  source  impedance  selected  for  the  amplifier  is  75  —  j87  ohms  at  30 
mc.  The  75  ohms  is  selected  to  reduce  the  effect  of  variations  in  input  [ 
impedance  when  it  is  reduced  further  by  the  internal  feedback.  The  87 
ohms  of  capacitive  reactance  is  selected  to  tune  the  input  reactance  at  f 
the  peak  of  response.  Using  Fig.  8  with  the  overlay  of  Fig.  9(a)  along 
with  (32)  under  the  assumption  that  Xs  varies  insignificantly  over  the 
frequencies  involved  one  obtains  Table  II.  This  table  shows  the  varia- 
tion of  transducer  gain  as  the  value  of  B2  is  changed  as  well  as  indicating 
the  value  of  B2  required  for  the  maximum  gain.  Thus,  if  the  total  output 
capacitance  is  known,  the  load  admittance  required  to  give  the  maxi- 
mum gain  at  the  desired  frequency  can  be  computed.  As  Avill  be  shown 

Table  II  —  Evaluation  of  Transducer  Gain  of  I-F 

Amplifier 


Po/Pi 

^in 

P,/Power    avail- 
able from 

source 

Transducer  gain 
Gain,  db 


—ShiiT 


50 

22  +  ;48 


0.61 

30 

14.8 


-4/»2 


64 

23  -j-  yss 


0.66 

42 

16.2 


-ihi 


73 

28  +  i73 


0.78 

57 

17.5 


-2/j!2r 


75 

36  -F  i87 


0.87 

66 

18.2 


—hi^T 


59 

67  +  ;99 


0.98 

58 

17.6 


Ohiir 


50 

96  +  jU 


0.98 

49 

16.9 


hiiT 


00 

120  +  j67 


0.94 

36 

15.5 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOE   AMPLIFIERS 


835 


^  below,  the  bandwidth  at  which  the  response  is  down  a  given  number  of 
db  can  also  be  computed. 

From  Table  II  one  observes  that  this  design  provides  a  gain  of  about 
18  db  with  half  power  frequencies  where  the  susceptance  B2  has  changed 
by  ±3/i22r  mhos  from  its  value  of  —  2/i22r  at  the  center  of  the  pass  band. 
The  value  of  h22i  corresponds  to  approximately  1  fifxi  of  capacitance  and 
if  the  stray  capacitance  amounts  to  3.5  nni,  then  the  bandwidth  is 
AB2/2C  since  the  slope  of  the  susceptance  of  a  tuned  circuit  is 


I  . 


2C- 


m 


hos 


rad/sec 

I  Thus  the  bandwidth  is  approximately 

I 

6 -3.5 -10"' 


I  2 -2.5 -10-12.6.28 

(ir  3.7  mc.  This  is  the  actual  value  of  load  capacitance  measured  on  an 
experimental  amplifier  with  a  vacuum  tube  voltmeter  connected  to  the 
output.  The  measured  response  of  this  amplifier  with  a  load  of  Yl  = 
(08  -  j215)  •  lO"*^  at  30  mc  (Gl  =  2/?22r)  shows  a  peak  gain  of  18.3  db  and 

I  half  power  points  separated  by  3.8  mc.  For  a  given  value  of  Gl  ,  the 
bandwidth  of  the  amplifier  will  varj^  inversely  with  the  total  capacitance 
in  the  output  circuit.  The  same  gain  as  obtained  in  the  sample  given 
above,  can  be  obtained  over  a  narrower  band  by  increasing  the  load 
capacitance.  Since  the  minimum  capacitance  is  fixed,  if  one  wishes  to 
increase  the  width  of  the  pass  band,  a  higher  value  of  G2  must  be  used. 

;In  the  same  manner  as  is  used  to  arrive  at  the  data  shown  on  Table  II, 
Table  III  is  computed  for  a  value  of  G2  =  6/?22r  (Gl  =  5/?22r). 

In  this  case,  the  maximum  value  of  Po/Pi  occurs  when  B2  =  —  3/i22r  • 
Ihe  source  impedance  is  selected  to  be  75  —  j45  ohms  at  30  mc  and  the 
jcmainder  of  the  table  is  computed.  The  maximum  computed  gain  is 
approximately  16  db  with  half  power  frequencies  where  the  susceptance 


Table  III 


B2 


Evaluation  of  Transducer  Gain  of  I.F. 
Amplifier 


P./Pi 

/„. 

/',,,/Power    avail- 
able from  source 
Transducer  gain.  . 
<  iain  db 


-8/r22r 

— 5//22r 

-3/j22r 

-2/2  22r 

— /J22r 

-l-/«22r 

25 

35  +  y22 

33 

35  +  jS5 

43 

50  +  ;45 

40 

56  +  i46 

39 

65  +  ;48 

31 

77  +  i39 

0.S3 

21 

13.2 

0.86 

28 

14.5 

0.96 

41 

16.1 

0.97 

39 

15.9 

0.99 

39 

15.9 

0.99 

31 

14.9 

21 

83  +  j20 

0.97 

20 

13.0 


836 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


Bo  has  changed  by  ±6/i22r  mhos  from  its  value  at  the  center  of  the  band. 
Using  the  same  value  of  circuit  capacitance  as  above,  the  indicated  band- 
width is  about  7.4  mc.  The  measured  response  on  an  amplifier  with  this 
value  of  load  impedance  indicates  a  gain  of  16.1  db  at  30  mc,  with  the 
frequencies  at  the  half  power  point  separated  by  7.6  mc. 

Often  it  is  desirable  to  build  tuned  amplifiers  to  work  between  like 
impedances  in  which  case  at  least  the  output  network  must  perform  both 
the  function  of  selectivity  and  impedance  transformation.  An  example 
of  a  simple  network  to  perform  these  functions  is  shown  on  Fig.  17.  The 
impedance  transforming  properties  of  such  a  circuit  are  w^ell  know^n. 
With  a  given  value  of  load  resistance,  the  load  admittance  presented  to 
the  transistor  can  be  made  to  have  a  given  value  at  a  certain  frequency. 
However,  since  the  circuit  performs  both  the  function  of  impedance 
transformation  and  selectivity  the  bandwidth  is  determined  by  the  out- 
put impedance  selected.  This  circuit  does  not  present  a  fixed  value  of 
conductance  as  a  function  of  frequency  but  for  frequencies  near  the 
maximum  gain  it  is  a  fair  approximation  to  assume  it  constant.  The  out- 
put circuit  of  Fig.  17  w^as  designed  to  present  a  load  admittance  such  that 
G2  +  JB2  =  3/i22r  —  i2/i22r  at  30  mc.  This  is  tJhe  same  condition  as  com- 
puted in  Table  II  so  one  would  expect  the  same  value  of  maximum  gain. 
However,  in  order  to  present  the  proper  value  of  load  impedance,  a  total 
load  capacitance  of  about  4  /^/xf  must  be  used.  This  indicates  a  bandwidth 
of  3.3  mc  between  the  half  power  points.  The  measured  response  of  this 
amplifier  is  shown  on  Fig.  18  as  the  solid  line.  The  points  indicate  the 
computed  maximum  gain  and  the  frequencies  at  which  the  gain  is  down 
3db. 


-4.5V 


+  15V 


Fig.  17  —  Simple  tuned  amplifier.  The  output  circuit  performs  both  the  func- 
tions of  impedance  transformation  and  selectivity. 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE   TRANSISTOR   AMPLIFIERS 


837 


20 


18 


16 


U 
gl4 


<  12 


o 

Q    10 

z 
< 


8 


( 

MEASURED    RESPONSE 

O      COMPUTED    POINTS 

) 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

i 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

\ 

24  26  28  30  32  34  36 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


38 


Fig.  18  —  Measured  and  computed  response  of  the  stage  shown  on  Fig.  17. 


An  IF  Amplifier  Centered  at  70  Mc. 

Although  we  do  not  have  complete  data  on  the  parameter  values  of 
tetrode  transistors  in  this  frequency  range,  amplifiers  with  a  center  fre- 
quency of  70  mc  have  been  built  and  their  performance  measured.  The 
amplifier  was  designed  to  provide  a  flat  gain  characteristic  over  the  fre- 
quency range  from  60  to  80  mc.  The  stage  was  designed  with  the  equiv- 
alent of  a  double  tuned  transformer,  interstage  circuit  with  the  trans- 
former being  replaced  by  the  equivalent  tee  section.  The  selective  circuit 
is  terminated  at  its  output  into  the  load  resistance  in  the  case  of  the  last 
stage  or  by  the  input  impedance  of  the  following  transistor  when  it  is 
used  as  an  interstage  network.  The  impedance  transformation  of  the 
network  is  approximately  75  ohms  to  1,500  ohms  so  it  is  essentially  un- 
terminated  at  the  collector.  By  using  a  sweeping  oscillator,  such  a  stage 
can  be  adjusted  to  result  in  a  fairly  flat  frequency  response.  A  typical 
stage  is  shown  on  Fig.  19.  The  output  terminals  are  connected  to  either 
the  load  or  the  next  emitter.  The  response  obtained  from  a  3-stage  am- 
plifier is  shown  on  Fig.  20.  In  order  to  determine  the  variation  of  gain 


838  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

33  K 


OUT 


soon 


I+15V 


Fig.  19  —  Circuit  of  a  60  to  80-mc  band  pass  amplifier  stage. 


32 


in 

0^  (1) 
lU  CO 


28 


<  - 

cr 


Q  24 


Z 

<  20 

O 


16 


/\ 

r^ 

k 

/ 

>) 

54  58  62  66  70  74  78  82 

FREQUENCY   IN  MEGACYCLES    PER  SECOND 


86 


Fig.  20  —  Gain  of  a  3-stage  band  pass  amplifier  working  between  75-ohm  im- 
pedances. Each  stage  uses  the  circuit  shown  on  Fig.  19. 


(0 

cc 
o 

\- 

Z  3 
< 

cr 

I- 

u. 

^2 

a. 

UJ 

CD 
Z     1 


4  — 


5  6  7  8  9  10         n 

GAIN    IN    DECIBELS 


12 


Fig.  21  —  Variation  of  gain  for  a  grouj)  of  transistors  used  in  the  circuit  of 
Fig.  19. 


THE   DESIGN    OF   TETRODE    TRANSISTOR    AMPLIFIERS 


839 


6  - 


tr  ^ 
o 

(- 

to 


o 
q:3 

ID 

^2 


p5!^  p:  :    J  jwp 


8  9  10         11  12         13         14         13         16 

NOISE  FIGURE  IN   DECIBELS 


Fig.  22  —  Noise  figure  for  a  group  of  transistors  used  in  the  circuit  of  Fig.  19. 


If)  A 

1^3 

or 

o 

1- 

<ri 

■■":::■■>" 

10 

;:;-:::o; 

z  ^ 

— 

p*r<*-| 

v:::-:;:; 

< 

:":■:::::■: 

CL 

(- 

U- 

C> 

CC^ 

~ 

i!i 

:-:-x:;-: 

Hi 

■■■y-yA 

::::■:;:":: 

m 

2 

D 

Z   1 

" 

0 

1 

1 

5  6  7  8 

NOISE    FIGURE  IN    DECIBELS 


10 


Fig.  23  —  Noise  figure  for  a  group  of  transistors  used  in  a  10-mc  bandpass 
amplifier. 


840      THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

between  various  transistors,  18  tetrodes  were  measured  in  the  first  stage 
of  the  amplifier.  If  the  measured  gain  of  each  transistor  is  rounded  off 
to  the  nearest  db  and  the  number  of  transistors  having  this  gain  plotted 
as  the  abscissa,  the  results  shown  on  Fig.  21  are  obtained.  Of  the  18 
transistors  measured,  11  have  a  gain  of  8  db  or  greater.  Similar  data  has 
been  obtained  on  the  noise  figure  of  the  same  18  transistors,  the  results 
being  shown  on  Fig.  22.  In  general,  the  transistors  having  the  highest 
gain  also  have  the  lowest  noise  figure.  The  noise  figure  depends  to  some 
extent  on  the  source  impedance  but  a  75-ohm  source  results  in  a  noise 
figure  which  is  within  a  few  tenths  of  a  db  of  the  minimum.  The  value 
of  the  noise  figure  does  not  vary  a  great  deal  as  the  collector  voltage  and 
emitter  current  are  changed  except  that  if  the  collector  voltage  is  lowered 
below  6  or  8  volts  the  gain  decreases  and  in  general  the  noise  figure  in- 
creases. 

Noise  Figure  at  10  Mc. 

Although  not  described  here,  bandpass  amplifiers  centered  at  10  mc 
with  a  200-kc  pass  band  have  been  constructed  using  tetrode  transistors. 
A  gain  of  slightly  over  20  db  per  stage  can  be  realized  at  this  frequency. 
The  noise  figure  of  transistors  tried  in  this  circuit  is  shown  on  Fig.  23, 
the  data  being  shown  in  the  same  manner  as  described  above.  At  10  mc 
the  noise  figures  are  lower  than  at  70  mc.  The  remarks  made  above  con- 
cerning variation  of  noise  figure  with  operating  conditions  also  apply  to 
this  case. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We  are  happy  to  acknowledge  the  advice  and  encouragement  given 
us  by  R.  L.  Wallace,  Jr.,  and  others  in  the  Laboratories.  We  also  wish 
to  express  our  thanks  to  E.  Dickten  who  fabricated  the  transistors  used 
to  obtain  the  experimental  data  presented.  W.  F.  Wolfertz  made  the 
transistor  parameter  measurements  used  in  the  computations.  R.  H. 
Bosworth  and  C.  E.  Scheideler  were  responsible  for  construction  of  the 
circuits  and  some  of  the  gain  measurements.  We  also  wish  to  thank  W.  R. 
Bennett  for  his  aid  in  preparing  the  manuscript. 


The  Nature  of  Power  Saturation  in 
Traveling  Wave  Tubes 

By  C.  C.  CUTLER 

(Manuscript  received  February  2,  1956) 

The  non-linear  operating  characteristics  of  a  traveling  wave  tube  have 
been  studied  using  a  tube  scaled  to  low  frequency  and  large  size.  Measure- 
ments of  electron  beam  velocity  and  current  as  a  function  of  RF  phase  and 
amplitude  show  the  mechanism  of  power  saturation. 

The  most  important  conclusions  are: 

I.  There  is  an  optimum  set  of  parameters  (QC  =  0.2  and  yro  =  0.6) 
giving  the  greatest  efficiency. 

II.  There  is  a  best  value  of  the  gain  parameter  "C"  which  leads  to  a  best 
efficiency  of  about  38  per  cent. 

III.  A  picture  of  the  actual  spent  beam  modidation  is  now  available 
which  shows  the  factors  contributing  to  traveling  wave  tube  power  saturation. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  highest  possible  efficiency  of  the  travehng  wave  tube  has  been 
estimated  from  many  different  points  of  view.  In  his  first  paper  on  the 
subject^  J.  R.  Pierce  showed  that  according  to  small  signal  theory,  when 
the  dc  beam  current  reaches  100  per  cent  modulation  an  efficiencj^  of 

,  =  §  (1) 

is  indicated,*  and  thus  the  actual  efficiency  might  be  limited  to  some- 
thing like  this  value.  Upon  later  consideration"  he  concluded  that  the  ac 
convection  current  could  be  twice  the  dc  current  and  that  one  might 
expect  an  efficiency  of 

r)  =  2C  (2) 

He  also  considered  the  effects  of  space  charge,  and  concluded  on  the 

*  Symbols  are  consistent  with  Reference  2  and  are  listed  at  the  end  of  this 
paper. 

841 


842       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

same  basis  that  under  high  space  charge  and  elevated  voltage  conditions, 
efficiencies  might  be  as  high  as 

77  =  8C  (3) 

J.  C.  Slater^  on  the  other  hand  considered  the  motion  of  electrons  in  a 
traveling  wave  and  concluded  that  the  maximum  possible  reduction  in 
beam  velocity  would  also  indicate  a  limiting  efficiency  of  2C.  Taking  a 
more  realistic  account  of  the  electron  velocity,  Pierce  showed  that  these 
considerations  lead  to  a  value  of 

V  =  -^yiC  (4) 

which,  since  t/i  ranges  between  —}'2  and  —2,  leads  to  the  same  range  of 
values  as  the  other  predictions. 

None  of  these  papers  purport  to  give  a  physical  picture  of  the  over- 
loading phenomenon,  but  only  specify  clear  limitations  to  the  linear 
theory.  L.  Brillouin  on  the  other  hand  found  a  stable  solution  for  the 
flow  of  electrons  bunched  in  the  troughs  of  a  traveling  wave.  This  he 
supposed  to  represent  the  limiting  high  level  condition  of  traveling  wave 
tube  operation.  His  results  give  an  efficiency  of 

V  =  2hC  (5) 

In  the  first  numerical  computations  of  the  actual  electron  motion  in  a 
traveling  wave  tube  in  the  nonlinear  region  of  operation,  Nordsieck  pre- 
dicted efficiencies  ranging  between  2.5  and  7  times  C  and  showed  that 
there  would  be  a  considerable  reduction  in  efficiency  for  large  diameter 
beams,  due  to  the  non-uniformity  of  circuit  field  across  the  beam  diame- 
ter. He  also  gave  some  indication  of  the  electron  dynamics  involved. 
Improving  on  this  line  of  attack,  Poulter  calculated  some  cases  includ- 
ing the  effect  of  space  charge  and  large  values  of  C. 

Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis  carried  computations  still  further  for  small 
values  of  C  by  including  the  effect  of  small  beam  radii  upon  the  space 
charge  terms,  and  showed  that  space  charge  and  finite  (small)  beam  radii 
result  in  much  smaller  efficiencies  than  were  previously  predicted.  J.  E. 
Rowe^  got  similar  results  and  gave  more  information  on  the  effects  of 
finite  values  of  C.  Computations  for  large  values  of  C  by  Tien  showed 
that  a  serious  departure  from  the  small  C  conditions  takes  place  above 
values  of  C  =  0.1  if  space  charge  is  small  (i.e.,  below  QC  =  0.1)  and 
above  C  =  0.05  for  larger  values  of  space  charge.  They  indicated  that  a 
maximum  value  of  efficiency  as  high  as  40  per  cent  should  be  possible 
using  C  =  0.15,  QC  =  0.1  and  elevated  beam  voltages. 

These  five  papers  give  some  insight  into  the  electron  dynamics  of  power 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   843 

saturation,  but  still  involve  questionable  approximations  which  make  it 
desirable  to  compare  predictions  with  the  actual  situation. 

Theoretical  considerations  of  the  effects  of  attenuation  upon  efhciency 
have  not  led  to  conclusions  coming  even  close  to  the  observed  results. 
Measured  characteristics^^'  ^^  show  that  the  effect  of  attenuation  is  very 
large,  but  that  attenuation  may  be  appropriately  distributed  to  attain 
stability  and  isolation  between  input  and  output  of  the  tube  without  de- 
grading the  output  power. 

There  are  also  several  papers  in  the  French  and  German  periodicals 
which  deal  with  the  question  of  traveling  wave  tube  efficienc3^  Some 
of  these  are  listed  in  References  12  through  20. 

This  paper  describes  measurements  of  efficiency  and  of  beam  modula- 
tion made  on  a  traveling  wave  tube  scaled  to  large  size,*  and  low  fre- 
quencies. The  construction  of  the  tube,  shown  in  Fig.  1,  and  the  measure- 
ment of  its  parameters  were  much  more  accurate  than  is  usual  in  the 
design  of  such  tubes.  The  results  are  believed  to  be  generally  applicable 
to  tubes  having  similar  values  of  the  normalized  parameters. 


OUTPUT 
TERMINATION 


INPUT 
TERMINATION 


INTERMEDIATE 
TAP 


VACUUM    HEADER 

/ 


^  VELOCITY 
ANALYZER 


SAMPLE 
OF    HELIX 


SUPPORTS 


SECTION    OF 
FOCUSING  SOLENOID 


Fig.  1  —  The  scale  model  traveling  wave  tube.  The  tube  is  10  feet  long  with  a 
c-opper  helix  supported  by  notched  glass  tubing  from  an  aluminum  cylinder  over- 
wound with  a  focusing  solenoid.  It  is  continuously  pumped  and  readilj^  demount- 
able. 


See  Appendix. 


844       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

Two  kinds  of  measurements  are  described.  First,  the  efficiency  and 
power  output  are  determined  for  various  conditions  of  operation,  and 
second  the  spent  beam  ac  velocity  and  current  are  measured.  The  prin- 
cipal results  are  shown  in  Figs.  2  to  4  which  give  the  obtainable  effi- 
ciencies, and  in  Figs.  7  to  10  which  show  some  of  the  factors  which  con- 
tribute to  power  saturation.  These  figures  are  discussed  in  detail  later. 
The  most  significant  phenomenon  is  the  early  formation  of  an  out-of- 
phase  bunch  of  electrons  which  have  been  violentl}^  thrown  back  from 
the  initial  bunch,  absorbing  energy  from  the  circuit  wave,  and  inhibiting 
its  growth.  The  final  velocity  of  most  of  the  electrons  is  near  to  that  of 
the  circuit  wave  which  would  lead  to  a  value  of 

limiting  efficiency  t]  =  —2yiC  (6) 

if  the  wave  velocity  maintained  its  small  signal  value.  Actually  the  wave 
slows  down,  under  the  most  favorable  conditions  giving  rise  to  a  some- 
what higher  efficiency.  For  other  conditions,  space  charge,  excess  elec- 
tron velocity,  or  nonuniformity  of  the  circuit  field  enter  in  various  ways 
to  prevent  the  desired  grouping  of  electrons  and  result  in  lower  effi- 
ciencies. 

The  observed  efficiencies  are  a  rather  complicated  function  of  QC, 
yvo  and  C.  To  compare  with  efficiencies  obtained  from  practical  tubes  one 
must  account  for  circuit  attenuation  and  be  sure  that  some  uncontrolled 
factor  such  as  helix  non-uniformity  and  secondary  emission  is  not  seri- 
ously affecting  the  tubes'  performance.  Measured  efficiencies  of  several 
carefully  designed  tubes  have  been  assembled  and  are  compared  with 
the  results  of  this  paper  in  Table  I. 

The  results  of  these  measurements  compare  fa^'orably  with  the  com- 
putations of  Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis  ,  and  of  Tien  .  There  are,  how- 
ever some  important  differences  which  are  discussed  in  a  later  section. 

TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE   EFFICIENCY   MEASUREMENTS 

Reasoning  from  low  level  theory,  efficiency  should  be  a  function  of  the 
gain  parameter,  "C,"  the  space  charge  parameter  "QC,"  the  circuit, 
attenuation,  and  (for  large  beam  sizes),  the  relative  beam  radius  "yro ." 
It  was  soon  found  that  efficiency  is  a  much  more  complicated  function  of 
y)\i  than  expected.  The  iiiilial  ()l)jecti\-e  was  to  detoiniine  the  effect  of 
QC,  C,  and  yr^  separately  on  efficiency,  but  it  A\'as  necessary  to  gi^'e  a 
much  more  general  coverage  of  these  parameters,  not  assuming  an>'  of 
them  to  be  small. 

Most  of  the  measurements  ha\^e  been  made  with  small  \alues  of  loss 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES      845 


Table  I 


Laboratory 

Freq. 
mc. 

QC 

yrr, 

c 

V 

meas- 
ured 

V 
(from 
Fig.  3) 

7)  (From 

Fig.  3  with 

allowance 

for  circuit 

attenuationio 

McDowell* 

4,000 

0.27 

0.62 

0.078 

19.5 

26 

21.6 

6,000 

0.29 

0.8 

0.058 

13.2 

16.2 

12.5 

Brangaccio  and  Cutlerf 
Danielson  and  Watson* 

4,000 
11,000 

0.61 
0.35 

0.87 
1.2 

0.041 
0.05 

11 
6.6 

6 

7 

6 

4.8 

R.  R.  Warnecke^e,  n,  is 

870 

0.32 

0.3 

.125 

27 

33 

33 

W.  Kleen  and  W.  Frizes 

4,000 

0.5 

0.43 

0.05 

7.8 

11.5 

5.7 

W.  KleenJ 
L.  Bruck§ 

4,000 
3,500 

0.2 
0.19 

0.94 
0.6 

0.1 
0.065 

20 
15 

26 
23 

22 
18.5 

Hughes  Aircraft  Co. 

3,240 

0.19 

0.94 

0.12 

39 

31 

29 

9,000 

0.15 

1.3 

0.11 

25 

15.5 

12.7 

*  At  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 

t  Reference  10  (a  slight  beam  misalignment  could  account  for  most  of  this 
difference). 

t  Siemens  &  Halske,  Munich,  Germany. 
§  Telefunken,  Ulm,  Germany. 


and  of  the  gain  parameter,  where  efficiency  is  proportional  to  C,  as  ex- 
pected from  small-signal  small-C  predictions.  This  reduces  the  problem 
to  a  determination  of  -q/C  versus  QC  and  7ro  . 

Many  measurements  of  this  kind  have  been  made,  and  the  data  are 
summarized  in  Figs.  2  and  3,  with  efficiency  shown  as  a  function  of  QC 
and  yro .  In  Fig.  2  we  have  the  efficiency  when  the  beam  voltage  is  that 
which  gives  maximum  low-level  gain.  Fig.  3  shows  the  efficiency  ob- 
tained when  the  beam  potential  is  raised  to  optimize  the  power  output, 
and  contours  of  constant  efficiency  have  been  sketched  in.  There  is 
significantly  higher  efficiency  than  before  in  the  region  of  maximum  effi- 
ciency, but  not  much  more  elsewhere. 

Fig.  4  shows  how  efficiency  varies  with  C  for  a  small  value  of  QC,  a 
representative  value  of  7ro ,  and  with  beam  voltage  increased  to  maxi- 
mize the  output.  This  indicates  a  maximum  of  about  38  per  cent  at 
C  =  0.14. 

Some  of  the  computed  results  of  Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis,   and  of 

Tien    are  also  indicated  in  the  figures.  Their  results  generally  indicate 

somewhat  greater  efficiencies  than  were  observed,  but  in  the  most  sig- 

i  nificant  region  the  comparison  is  not  too  bad  as  will  be  seen  in  a  later 

section. 

The  measurements  are  for  conditions  having  negligible  circuit  loss 
near  the  tube  output.  There  are  no  new  data  on  the  effect  of  loss,  but 
earlier  results'**  have  been  verified  by  measurements  at  Stanford  Uni- 


versity   and  are  still  believed  to  be  a  satisfactory  guide  in  tube  design. 


846 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


3.0 


0.5 


Fig.  2  —  Values  of  efficiency/C  as  a  function  of  QC  andyro  at  the  voltage  giving 
maximum  gain  per  unit  length.  The  shaded  contours  and  triangular  points  are 
from  the  computations^  of  Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis.  The  circled  points  are  from 
the  measurements  and  the  line  contours  are  estimated  lines  of  constant  efficiency. 
The  most  significant  difference  is  for  large  beam  radii,  where  the  RF  field  varies 
over  the  beam  radius  in  a  way  not  accounted  for  in  the  computations. 


SPENT   BEAM   CHARACTERISTICS 

The  scale  model  traveling  wave  tube  was  followed  by  a  velocity  an- 
alyzer as  sketched  in  Fig.  5  and  described  in  the  Appendix.  A  sample  of 
the  beam  at  the  output  end  of  the  helix  is  passed  through  a  sweep  cir- 
cuit to  separate  electrons  according  to  phase,  and  crossed  electric  and 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES      847 

magnetic  fields  to  sort  them  according  to  velocity.  The  resulting  beam 
draws  a  pattern  on  a  fluorescent  screen  as  shown  in  Fig.  6  from  which 
charge  density  and  velocity  can  be  measured  as  a  function  of  signal 
phase.  The  velocity  coordinate  is  determined  by  photographing  the 
ellipse  with  several  different  beam  potentials,  as  in  Fig.  6(a),  and  the 
phase  coordinate  is  measured  along  the  ellipse.  From  pictures  like  this 
a  complete  determination  of  electron  behavior  is  obtained  from  the 
linear  region  up  to  and  above  the  saturation  level. 

The  results  of  such  a  run  are  plotted  in  Fig.  7.  The  upper  lefthand 


2.0 


Fig.  3  —  Values  of  efficiency/C  as  u  function  of  QC  and  yro  at  elevated  beam 
voltage.  Raising  the  beam  voltage  has  little  effect  at  large  QC  and  small  yro  , 
and  less  than  expected  anywhere.  Again  the  triangular  points  are  from  Tien, Walker 
and  Wolontis,^  and  the  line  contours  are  estimated  from  the  measured  data. 


848 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


5.5 
5.0 
4.5 
4.0 
3.5 
3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0 


A 

\ 

\.  40%  EFFICIENCY 

\ 

\ 

s. 

n 

a 

S-& 

1 

s. 

^  o 

U 

u 

a.ZM—a 

on" 

^ 

---..'^ 

^ 

D 

D 

c 

^^).^ 

*^.. 

--- 

o 

o 

"^■. 

□    TAKEN   WITH    7ro  =  0.78    QC=0,1 
o     TAKEN    WITH    7ro=0.41    QC=0.06 
A    FROM   TIEN    REFERENCE  9 

0.2 


0.4 


0.6 


0.8 


1.0 


1.2 


1.4 


1.6 


i.a 


Fig.  4  —  Efficiency/C  for  large  values  of  C  and  with  elevated  beam  voltage. 
Efficiency  seriously  departs  from  proportionality  to  C  at  C  =  0.14,  where  a  maxi- 
mum efficiency  of  about  38  per  cent  is  measured. 


MAGNETIC 
SHIELD 


COIL 


ELECTROSTATIC 
ELECTRON  LENS  (3) 


FLOURESCENT 
SCREEN, 


NOTCHED 
GLASS 
RODS  (3) 


DEFLECTING 
PLATES 


DEFLECTING 
COILS 


DEFLECTING 
PLATES 


Fig.  5  —  The  velocity  analyzer.  A  sample  of  the  spent  electron  beam  is  ac- 
celerated to  a  high  potential,  swept  transversely  with  a  synchronous  voltage, 
sorted  with  crossed  electric  and  magnetic  fields,  and  focused  onto  a  fluorescent 


screen. 


pattern,  Fig.  7(a),  is  representative  of  the  low  level  (linear)  conditions 
(22  db  below  the  drive  for  saturation  output) .  The  dashed  curve  repre- 
sents the  voltage  on  the  circuit,  inverted  so  that  electrons  can  be  vis- 
ualized as  rolling  down  hill  on  the  curve.  The  phase  of  this  voltage  rela- 
tive to  the  electron  ac  velocity  is  computed  from  small  signal  theory,  but 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   849 

everything  else  in  Fig.  7,  including  subsequent  variations  of  phase,  are 
measured.  The  solid  line  patterns  represent  the  ac  velocity,  and  the 
shaded  area,  the  charge  density  corresponding  to  that  velocity.  Thus  in 
each  pattern  we  have  a  complete  story  of  (fundamental)  circuit  voltage, 
electron  velocity  and  current  density  as  a  function  of  phase,  for  a  par- 
ticular signal  input  level.  The  velocity  and  current  modulations  at  small 
signal  levels  check  calculated  values  well,  and  it  is  not  difficult  to  visu- 
alize the  dynamics  giving  this  pattern. 

Consider  first  the  situation  in  the  tube  at  small  signal  amplitudes. 
At  the  input  an  unmodulated  electron  beam  enters  the  field  of  an  elec- 
tromagnetic wave  moving  with  approximately  the  same  velocity  as  the 
electrons.  The  electrons  are  accelerated  or  decelerated  depending  upon 
their  phase  relative  to  the  wave,  and  soon  are  modulated  in  velocity. 
The  velocity  modulation  causes  a  bunching  of  the  electrons  near  the 
potential  maxima  (i.e.,  the  valleys  in  the  inverted  potential  wave  shown) 
and  these  bunches  in  turn  induce  a  new  electromagnetic  wave  com- 
ponent onto  the  circuit  roughly  in  ciuadrature  following  the  initial  wave. 
I'he  addition  of  this  component  gives  a  net  field  somewhat  retarded  from 
the  initial  wave  and  larger  in  amplitude.  Continuation  of  this  process 


Fig.  6  —  Velocity  analyzer  patterns.  The  beam  sample  is  made  to  traverse  an 
ellipse  at  }i  the  signal  frequency.  Current  density  modulation  appears  as  intensity 
variation,  and  velocity  variation  as  vertical  deflection  from  the  ellipse. 


2 
1 

0 

-  I 

-2 

2 

1 

0 
-1 
-2 


-22  DB 

(a) 

— 



5^!stt 

__ 

-_^w^^ 

p^^~^ '  1  ^-LLfcggq 

1  !   1  i  1 

ij=rr— 



T3aij^gj4j^^_l_j^  1  1  -,1^^ 

1 

-17  DB 

(b) 

1 

^iiTTTTT 

SCCl-r-^ 

—                            -=,=e^^ 

K                                    

±3=--                 , 

-^ 

^^^^^^^^ 

< 

D 
U 

tr 


< 

_] 
UJ 

cc 

Q 
Z 
< 


u 
o 
z 
< 

I 
o 


o 
o 


z 
o 
ct 


> 


UJ 

a. 


1 
0 

-  1 

-2 
2 

,      1 
•0 

-  I 

-2 
-3 

2 

I 
0 

-  1 
-2 
-3 


1 

^ 

-12  DB 

(d) 

'"         ~  ~~  ~^3^ 

^' 

"■^. 

^  -- 

■ 

--^            ^    ^^ 

^ 

4H- 

-^e^7 

~ W^'-M 

iiiiirrr 

:^^^ 

^LU-                  ■                   , 

^^"^'"""'^'^""^ 

-10DB         (e) 

,---^'  ~--^>^      A 

'^                         \ 

tt        J 1^ 

fffi 

~-_       

toil-- 

fflfflfe*^^ 

Lcn 

Jt^^  'III 

1  1  M  1  L-W^-^ 

^ 

-8DB 

(D 

/  ^  '^            "X^'^        ^ 

I 

^  ^ 

_^^^ 

--.    i^ 

:^^^ 

Jrii. 

-^ 

.rrrr-^,^ 

^ 

i^ 

tti^ 

*€-^fe^^ 

1 

<:^ 

J-  ' 

1 
^ 

— 1 

-4  DB 

(h) 

'  -«. 

0 
1 

^ 

y 
/ 

^, 

\ 

^ 

/ 

_  _^flrr 

-- 

^ 

L^ 

^-^ 

2 

1"^^                          ^ 

^ 

3 

! 

^^^ 

^ 

^ 

240 


180 


120 


60  0 

RELATIVE     PHASE 


IN 


60  120 

DEGREES 


180 


240 


Fig.  7  —  Curves  of  current  and  velocity  as  a  function  of  phase  for  various  input 
levels.  The  velocity  becomes  multivalued  at  a  very  low  level,  a  tail  forming  a 
nucleus  for  a  second  electron  bunch  which  eventually  caused  saturation  in  the 
output.  For  this  run  C  =  0.1  Q,C  =  0.06,  t^o  =  0.4  and  h  =  0.26. 

850 


-  1 
-2 

-3 




X' 

J ^ 

-2  DB       ^ _ 

^ 
/ 

(0 

• 
• 

r         \ 

\,                      1  ^g-^ 

K .- 

X 

^vt^          xii^^^Li-UJ 

f^lO- 


-3 


^ 

^--L--^^ 

-1   DB    X^ -, 

^' 

.< 

^            (^) 

< 

7 

fei-'. 

1-^ 
^  ■'■■■ 

11                               .^ 

/ 

1 

1^    T 

< 

o 
> 


o 


> 


Q 
Z 
< 


UJ 

z 
< 

I 
u 


u 
o 

-J 
dJ 
> 

z 
o 
a. 
\- 
o 

UJ 


. _^ 

1 

3  DB     J 

>':^-';^ 

^ 

(m) 

> 

^-' 

(¥ 

^^ 

-^      ^'-^ 

-<• 

4; 

yv~   - 

^                                                 "J^LK               ^v- ^    I              \ ^"^ 

> 

I- 
< 


UJ 


2 

1 
0 

- 1 

-2 

-3 


xS^ 

6  DB^ 

^                        ^-^"^ 

~  /^           ^■- 

U'              (n) 

\ 

^dr       ^^ 

* 
y 

^f 

^ 

K 

7 
y 

r 

3 

2 

1 

0 
-  1 
-2 

-3 

240 


9  DB 

(0) 

L  _ 

-^V^ 

-^^         ~^^^-- 

r 

~~~~" 

x' 

^^ 

/\                       /^"    ^ 

7^ 

^ 
X 
y 

^5^ 

ffe. 

^ 
• 

x^ 

y 

160 


120  60  0  60  120 

RELATIVE    PHASE    IN    DEGREES 


180 


240 


851 


852  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

may  be  seen  to  give  a  resultant  increasing  wave  traveling  somewhat 
slower  than  the  initial  wave,  and  thus  slower  than  the  electron  velocity. 
Returning  to  Fig.  7  we  see  that  electrons  in  the  decelerating  field  [from 
+30  to  +210°  in  Fig.  7(a)]  have  been  slowed  down,  and  because  of  their 
initial  velocity  being  faster  than  the  wave  velocity,  have  moved  forward 
in  the  wave  giving  a  region  of  minimum  velocity  somewhat  in  advance 
of  the  point  of  maximum  retarding  field  (greatest  negative  slope  in  the 
wave  potential).  Also,  bunching  due  to  acceleration  and  deceleration  of 
electrons  has  produced  a  maximum  of  electron  current  density  which, 
because  of  the  initial  excess  electron  velocity,  is  somewhat  to  the  right 
of  the  potential  maximum  (downward). 

As  the  level  is  increased  the  modulation  increases  and  at  17  db  below 
saturation  drive,  Fig.  7(b),  some  nonlinearity  is  evident.  The  velocity 
and  current  are  no  longer  sinusoidal,  but  show  the  beginnings  of  a  cusp 
in  the  velocity  curve  and  a  definite  non-sinusoidal  bunching  of  the 
electrons  in  the  retarding  field  region  (between  +30  and  210°). 

In  the  next  pattern,  Fig.  7(c),  at  14  db  below  saturation  a  definite  cusp 
has  formed  with  a  very  sharp  concentration  of  electrons  extending  sig- 
nificantly below  the  velocities  of  the  other  electrons.  We  already  have  a 
wide  range  of  velocities  in  the  vicinity  of  the  cusp,  and  at  this  level  the 
single  valued  velocity  picture  of  the  traveling  wave  tube  breaks  down. 
Although  it  cannot  be  distinctly  resolved,  the  study  of  many  such  pic- 
tures leaves  little  doubt  that  the  cusp  and  its  later  development  is  really 
a  folding  of  the  velocity  line. 

The  next  pattern  at  12  db  below  saturation  drive.  Fig.  7(d),  shows  a 
greater  development  of  the  spur  and  a  somewhat  greater  consolidation 
of  current  in  the  main  bunch  between  +60°  and  +180°.  It  is  interesting 
that  the  velocity  in  this  region  has  not  changed  significantly.  In  order 
for  this  to  be  true  the  space  charge  field  must  just  compensate  for  the 
circuit  field.  In  the  vicinity  of  the  60°  point  the  space  charge  field  ob- 
viously must  reverse,  accounting  for  the  very  sharp  deceleration  evident 
in  the  very  rapid  development  of  the  low  velocity  spur.  The  decelerating 
field  must  be  far  from  that  of  the  wave,  inasmuch  as  the  electrons  just 
behind  the  cusp  are  much  more  sharply  decelerated  than  those  preced- 
ing the  cusp.  We  conclude  that  there  are  very  sharply  defined  space 
charge  fields  much  stronger  than  the  helix  field.  At  this  relatively  low 
drive,  the  velocity  spread  has  already  achieved  its  maximum  peak  value. 

The  succeeding  three  patterns  show  a  continuing  growth  of  the  spur, 
a  continued  bleeding  of  electrons  from  the  higher  velocity  regions,  and 
a  consolidation  of  the  main  bunch  just  in  advance  of  the  spur.  Presum- 
ably the  increased  concentration  of  space  charge  in  the  bimch  has  kept 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES      853 

pace  with  the  increasing  hehx  field,  so  that  the  net  decelerating  field 
still  balances  to  nearly  zero.  At  4  db  below  the  saturation  drive,  Fig. 
7(h),  the  spur  has  moved  well  into  the  accelerating  region,  and  has  been 
speeded  up.  The  main  bunch  of  electrons  is  still  to  the  right  of  the  spur, 
and  has  been  consolidated  into  a  60°  interval.  The  few  electrons  in  ad- 
vance of  this  region  evidently  no  longer  find  the  space  charge  field  suffi- 
cient to  balance  the  circuit  field,  and  are  being  decelerated  into  a  second 
low  velocity  loop. 

The  next  three  patterns  show  a  continued  growth  of  this  second  low 
velocity  loop,  further  consolidation  of  the  'main  bunch',  and^the  rapid 
formation  of  a  second  bunch  in  the  accelerating  field  at  the  end  of  the 
spur.  It  is  interesting  that  at  saturation  drive,  Fig.  7(k)  the  two  bunches 
are  very  nearly  equal,  and  in  equal  and  opposite  circuit  fields,  nearly 
180°  apart.  The  reason  for  the  saturation  is  that  while  the  main  bunch 
is  still  giving  up  energy  to  the  wave,  the  new  one  is  absorbing  energy  at 
an  equal  rate.  The  fundamental  component  of  electron  current  is  evi- 
dently small,  and  is  in  quadrature  with  the  circuit  field.  The  current 
density  in  the  dashed  regions  is  less  than  1  per  cent  of  that  in  the  bunches, 
and  probably  more  than  95  per  cent  of  the  electrons  are  in  the  two 
bunches.  Two  new  effects  are  observable  at  this  level.  The  second  elec- 
tron bunch  has  begun  to  come  apart,  presumably  because  of  strong  lo- 
calized space  charge  forces.  These  forces  are  also  evident  in  the  kink  in 
the  velocity  pattern  drawn  by  the  fast  electrons  at  the  same  phase  as 
the  second  bunch. 

Since  the  majority  of  the  current  is  in  the  two  bunches  at  a  reduced 
velocity  of 

^^    =  -1.1 


2FoC 
one  would  expect  an  output  efficiency  of 

^  =  2.2C 

The  actual  measured  efficiency 

RF  power  output 
DC  power  input 

was  2.0  C.  Under  the  conditions  described,  (6)  would  give  1.4  C. 

At  still  higher  drive  levels  the  pattern  continues  to  develop,  electrons 
from  the  first  bunch  falling  back  into  the  second,  which  in  turn  continues 
to  divide,  one  part  accelerating  ahead  into  a  new  spur,  and  the  other 


I 


854  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956  1 

i 

slowing  down  and  falling  further  back  in  phase.  At  9  db  above  satura-  > 
tion,  Fig.  7(o),  the  pattern  is  quite  complex,  and  at  still  higher  levels  it 
is  utterly  indescribable.  ■ 

It  is  interesting  that  the  ^'elocity  gives  a  line  pattern,  even  though  a ' 
multi^'alued  one.  It  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  development  of 
the  spur  is  really  a  folding  of  the  \'elocity  line  so  that  the  spur  is  really  a 
double  line.  Thus,  at  the  9  db  level,  and  at  0°  phase,  for  instance,  there 
must  be  electrons  originating  from  five  different  parts  of  the  initial  dis- ; 
tribution.  In  an  attempt  to  verify  this  the  resolution  of  the  velocity  an-il 
alyzer  was  adjusted  so  that  a  difference  in  velocity  of  2  per  cent  of  the- 
overall  spread  could  be  observed,  but  there  was  no  positive  indication  of  r- 
more  than  one  velocity  associated  with  any  line  shown.  : 

There  has  been  a  long-standing  debate  as  to  whether  or  not  electrons  j 
are  trapped  in  the  circuit  field,  or  continue  to  override  the  w^ave  at  large 
amplitudes.  The  observations  indicate  that  with  low  values  of  space 
charge  and  near  synchronous  voltage  the  electrons  are  effectively  trapped: 
in  the  wave  until  well  above  saturation  amplitude.  In  other  circum- 
stances this  is  not  the  case,  as  we  shall  see. 

SPACE   CHARGE    EFFECTS 

The  data  of  Fig.  7  were  taken  with  a  very  small  value  of  the  space 
charge  parameter  QC,  so  small  in  fact  as  to  be  almost  negligible  as  far 
as  low  level  operation  is  concerned.  Yet  the  space  charge  forces  evidently 
played  a  very  strong  role  in  the  development  of  the  velocity  and  currenti' 
patterns.  It  is  doubtful  that  space  charge  would  ever  be  negligible  in  thisii 
respect,  because  if  the  space  charge  parameter  were  smaller,  the  bunch-i 
ing  would  be  more  complete,  the  electron  density  in  the  bunch  would  be 
greater  limited  only  by  the  balance  of  space  charge  field  and  circuit  field 
in  the  bunch.  The  effect  of  decreaising  QC  further  therefore  is  a  greater 
localization  of  the  space  charge  forces,  rather  than  a  reduction  of  their 
magnitude,  at  least  until  the  bunch  becomes  short  compared  to  the 
beam  radius. 

Increasing  the  value  of  the  space  charge  parameter  has  quite  the  op-' 
posite  effect.  In  Fig.  8  are  shown  three  velocity-cm-rent  distributions  ati 
the  saturation  level,  for  different  A-alues  of  QC.  It  can  be  seen  that  a  re-' 
suit  of  increased  space  charge  is  a  greater  spread  of  velocities,  and  a  wider 
phase  distribution  of  current. 

With  the  introduction  of  space  charge,  the  velocity  difference  between 
the  electrons  and  the  circuit  wave  at  low  levels  is  increased.  Consequently 
electrons  spend  a  longer  time  in  the  decelerating  field  before  beingj 
thrown  back  in  the  low  velocity  spur,  and  thus  lose  more  energy.  Thel 

i 


NATURE   OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES      855 


-^ 

r-       '      ""' 

' ^ 

NO 

(a)QC 

=  0.064 

/ 

> 

\ 

Vo 

^-' 

\^ 

Hi    y 

L            -^     w_       1 

/-^ 

1 

\ 

r 

/; 

I-     »W    J* 

y 
y 
y 

o^niij\[\ 

o      o 

^ 

y 

y 
y^ 

^^  *^ 

o 

v^^ 

UJ 

z 
< 

I 
o 

>- 

u 
o 

_l 


z 
o 
tr 

H 
U 

_] 

UJ 

LLl 
> 


_l 
LU 

cr 


o       ^'"^ 

^^        1 

(b) 

QC=0.22 

y 

\ 

Vo 

^x^ 

- 

-^ 

u— o— 

-Vvw 

-^ 

0\^ 

^    ° 

1     c 

^ 

,--;; 

>. .-«-' 

V 

o 

° 

o 

3 

^ 

^^ 

^^--^^^ 

^^^^Wf*^*^ 

-  I 

-2 

-3 
-4 

240 


o 

o 

o 

(c) 

o 

QC  =  0.48 

o 

o 

o     ° 

o 

o 

"    \° 

o  o 

o 

o 

/^ 

o 

o 

\° 

^0 

°      oc' 

^^ 

\ 

o 

o         °° 

^ 

m 

Hlx 

o 

\ 

o    o""^ 

"vw^X 

0 

-^^^ 

\ 

°      °     It, 

fe-ffig 

"^^ 

^ 

t^^^ 

n 

< 

o 

% 

^ 

o 
o      o 

^^ 

^^ 

° 

180 


120      60      0       60      120 
RELATIVE  PHASE  IN  DEGREES 


180 


240 


Fig.  8  —  A  comparison  sliowing  the  effect  of  the  space  charge  parameter  QG 
1  on  the  velocity  and  current  at  overload.  The  points  represent  the  disc  electrons  of 
{ the  computations^  of  Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis.  For  this  run  7ro  =  0.4  and  h  is 
I  chosen  for  maximum  X\  . 

I  greater  reduction  of  velocity  results  in  a  faster  and  farther  retarding  of 
I  the  current  in  the  spur  before  the  retarded  electrons  recover  velocity  in 
i  the  accelerating  region.  Also  the  larger  space  charge  forces  prevent  as 
I  tight  bunching  of  the  electrons  anywhere,  so  that  at  overload  they  are 
•spread  over  a  much  wider  phase  interval  (about  360°  for  QC  =  0.5). 
!  Space  charge  also  prevents  electrons  from  the  forward  part  of  the  bunch 
j  from  being  trapped  so  that  more  electrons  escape  ahead  of  the  decelerat- 
'  ing  field  and  more  current  is  found  in  the  upper  half  of  the  velocity 
j  curve.  This  very  likely  is  the  reason  that  efficiency  decreases  when  QC 
\  is  increased  above  about  0.3. 


856 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


EFFECT   OF   BEAM   SIZE 


In  small  signal  operation,  decreasing  the  beam  radius  below  that  which 
assures  a  constant  circuit  field  throughout  the  beam  has  no  effect  except 
that  accounted  for  by  its  effect  on  QC.  Fig.  9  shows  that  for  large  signals, 
however,  it  has  a  pronounced  effect.  When  the  beam  is  made  smaller 
(with  QC  maintained  by  changing  frequency  and  beam  current),  the 
slowed  up  tail  is  formed  at  a  much  lower  signal  level  (not  shown),  by  a 
very  few  electrons  which  begin  to  collect  in  the  accelerating  region  before 
the  beam  is  strongly  modulated.  As  the  level  is  increased,  the  current  is 
redistributed,  more  going  into  the  tail  without  much  alteration  in  the 
shape  of  the  velocity  pattern,  and  with  no  strong  bunching  at  any  part 
of  the  curve.  This  result  is  exaggerated  in  Fig.  9(c)  by  measuring  with  a 


o 

o 

> 


(J) 
z 
< 

I 
o 

>- 

H; 

O 
O 

_I 

LU 
> 

z 
o 
tr 

o 

UJ 

_l 

UJ 

> 


UJ 


(a)  7ro  =  o.64 

^ 

—  ■  - 

^, 

^^ 

^ 

\ 

% 

\ 

> 

1^  V' 

I 

^ 

/<^M^ 

j|'"vw~ 

' ^^ 

^^ 

^ttin 

^% 

^^ 

240         180  120  60  0  60  120 

RELATIVE   PHASE    IN   DEGREES 


1 
1 

(b)  •5fro=0.22 

/ 

*"*\, 

y 

\ 

Vo 

^ 

--" 

^ 

3      V, 

^ 

^*^^ 

^ 

^ 

"-'-^  Ui 

w 

^**^ 

'^Jjy^ 

^  \ 

\ 

I 

^^^ 

,riin4+ft: 

(C)  7 '0  =  0.06 

^ 

^icnxct; 

■0!^ 

^3^ 

Vo 

[???*?s^rt 

^ 

'>'■ 

V 

^IL 

rtjff# 

■ip> 

p> 

4^ 

^\. 

, 

—    L 

L. 

W^-^i' 

^ 

^•^^m-rf 

180 


240 


Fig.  9  —  Curves  of  current  and  velocity  as  influenced  by  yr^  .  Space  charge 
becomes  a  very  potent  factor  near  overload,  especially  when  the  beam  is  small. 
For  this  run  QC  =  0.34  and  6  =  1.0. 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   857 

ridiculously  small  beam.  By  comparison  with  curves  taken  for  larger 
beams,  the  tail  is  diminutive,  electrons  are  much  more  uniformly  dis- 
tributed over  all  velocities  and  phases,  and  a  peculiar  splitting  of  veloci- 
ties in  the  main  bunch  is  found.  The  latter  indicates  that  electrons 
entering  from  the  higher  velocity  region  move  forward  in  the  bunch,  and 
the  rest  gradually  retard.  The  smaller  reduction  in  velocities,  and  the 
spread  of  electrons  into  the  higher  velocity  regions  is  consistent  with  the 
lower  efficiency  measured  (Fig.  2). 

To  explain  the  observed  difference  in  high  level  performance  of  tubes 
with  different  size  beams  we  must  consider  the  character  of  the  ac  longi- 
tudinal space  charge  field.  The  coulomb  field  from  an  elemental  length 
of  an  electron  beam  is  inversely  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  dis- 
tance from  the  element 

E  =  Const  7-^,  (7) 

provided  (z  —  Zi)  »  ro  and  {z  —  Zi)  «  a. 

For  (z  —  zi)  not  small  compared  to  a,  (i.e.,  circuit  radius  not  awfully 
large)  the  field  would  drop  even  faster  with  (z  —  zi)  due  to  the  shielding 
effect  of  the  circuit.  On  the  other  hand,  very  near  to  the  beam  element 
{z  —  zi  <K  To),  the  field  is  approximately  that  of  a  disc,  which  is  nearly 
independent  of  z,  i.e., 

E  =  Const -^^  (8) 

Trro 

independent  of  z  for  z  <^ro . 

Thus  to  a  fair  approximation  the  space  charge  field  may  be  considered 
to  be  uniform  for  an  axial  distance  of  the  order  of  a  half  a  beam  radius, 
and  to  drop  rapidly  at  greater  distances.  For  a  given  current  element,  a 
small  diameter  beam  has  an  intense  field  extending  only  a  short  dis- 
tance, while  an  equal  charge  element  in  a  larger  beam  has  a  weaker  longi- 
tudinal field  extending  to  a  greater  distance. 

At  low  amplitudes  the  extent  of  the  forces  makes  no  difference  in 
operation,  for  a  sinusoidal  current  gives  a  sinusoidal  space  charge  field  in 
either  case.  However,  at  large  amplitudes,  a  sharp  change  in  current 
density  has  a  very  high  short  range  space  charge  field  if  the  beam  is 
small,  or  a  much  smaller  smoothed  out  long  range  field  if  the  beam  is 
large.  For  7/-o  =  0.5  which  appears  to  be  an  optimum  compromise  be- 
tween the  effects  of  space  charge  and  field  non-uniformity,  the  space 
charge  field  could  scarcely  be  confined  closer  than  about  ±30°  in  phase. 
<  )n  the  other  hand,  a  sharp  bunching  of  electrons  in  a  beam  having 


858       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

7/'o  =  .05  would  have  100  times  the  space  charge  field,  extending  how- 
ever only  one  tenth  as  far  from  the  current  discontinuity. 

Returning  to  Fig.  9  we  can  see  how  these  considerations  enter  into  the  | 
development  of  the  beam  modulation.  In  the  case  of  the  small  beam, 
Fig.  9(c),  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  formation  of  a  cusp,  the  strong 
highly  concentrated  space  charge  force  causes  a  rapid  deceleration  of 
nearby  electrons,  resulting  in  the  relatively  early  formation  of  a  diminu-i 
tive  tail.  The  very  high  localized  space  charge  force  also  prevents  as  tight 
bunching  of  electrons,  forcing  some  to  move  forward  and  continuously ; 
repopulate  the  accelerating  part  of  the  wave.  The  relatively  early  falling; 
apart  of  the  initial  bunch  and  the  greater  acceleration  of  the  overriding; 
electrons  evidently  give  the  latter  enough  velocity  to  penetrate  the  main  i 
bunch  of  electrons  and  form  the  second  class  of  electrons  in  the  main 
bunch,  90°-150°  in  Fig.  9(c).  Thus  the  net  result  of  reducing  the  beami 
size  is  a  severe  aggravation  of  space  charge  debunching  effects,  with  ai 
consequent  reduction  in  efficiency.  To  get  high  efficiency,  we  conclude, 
the  beam  should  not  be  small.  It  should  not  be  larger  than  77-0  =  0.7 ' 
however,  for  then  the  circuit  field  is  not  uniform  enough  over  the  beam  i 
cross-section  to  excite  it  properly,  resulting  in  a  loss  in  efficiency  as  is , 
evident  in  Figs.  2  and  3. 

EFFECT   OF   INCREASED    BEAM   VOLTAGE 

It  is  common  practice  in  the  operation  of  traveling  wave  tubes  to  ele- 
vate the  beam  voltage,  taking  a  sacrifice  in  gain  in  order  to  obtain  in- 
creased power  output.  The  effects  on  the  beam  modulation  are  shown  in 
Fig.  10.  In  Fig.  10(a),  the  voltage  is  somewhat  below  that  giving  maxi- 
mum gain.  The  curve  is  characteristic  of  what  we  have  already  seen  but 
the  bunching  is  less  pronounced  and  the  velocities  are  less  reduced.  In 
Fig.  10(b)  the  voltage  is  somewhat  above  that  giving  maximum  gain  and  \ 
the  curve  is  much  like  that  of  Fig.  8  except  that  the  decelerated  elec- 
trons are  slowed  by  a  greater  amount,  consistent  with  the  increased 
separation  of  electron  and  wave  velocity,  and  also  with  the  measured 
increase  in  power  output. 

Increasing  the  beam  voltage  still  further  gives  only  a  slight  increase 
in  efficiency.  Fig.  10(c)  shows  that  even  though  electrons  are  slowed  to 
still  lower  velocities,  and  the  velocity  spread  is  increased,  many  more 
electrons  override  the  circuit  Avave  and  are  accelerated,  thereby  off- 
setting the  greater  contribution  of  the  slower  electrons.  This  is  much 
like  what  was  seen  with  increasing  space  charge  (QC)  and  indeed  the 
effects  are  almost  ecjuivalent.  As  one  would  expect  therefore,  little  is 
gained  by  elevating  the  beam  voltage  if  the  space  charge  is  large,  the 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   859 


O 

o 

> 


!  o 
z 
< 

I 
o 

> 

u 
o 

_l 


z 

§ 

I- 
u 

LU 

_l 

UJ 
UJ 

> 

< 

UJ 


\ 
\ 
\ 

(a) 

b  =  o 

x" 

^ 

' 

\ 

Vq.v, 

^r-K 

-^w 

/r^:':?- 

Ih  -■ 

^^m. 

-iii 

>  . 

^% 

^^^ 

-1 

-2 

-3 
2 
1 

0 
-1 
-2 
-3 
-4 


r"'' 

,-'''' 

\ 

\ 

(b) 

b  =  0.77 

^ 

.'' 

\ 

\ 

Vo 

/^^ 

y 

m/ 

M^ 

N" V, 

vw 

^ 

A 

"\ 

/t'' 

y:a 

^  V 

^ 

...***^ 

^^X 

(c) 

b  =  ).56 

^^^ 

\ 

Vo 

1 

.___      . 

._  (|^m^^e*^=*** 

Vw 

(171 

N 

V, 

i 

k. 

/ 

240  180  120  60  0  60  120 

RELATIVE    PHASE    IN    DEGREES 


180 


240 


Fig.  10  —  The  influence  of  beam  velocity  on  ac  velocity  and  current.  When  the 
velocity  is  raised  too  high,  the  electrons  are  not  effectively  trapped  by  the  wave, 
and  override  into  the  accelerating  field.  With  large  QC  and/or  small  7ro  the  elec- 
trons override  in  any  case,  and  little  is  gained  by  increasing  h.  For  this  case  QG 
=  0.13  andTfo  =  0.21. 


^main  effect  being  to  push  more  electrons  forward  into  the  accelerating 
j  region. 


KLECTRIC    FIELD    IN   THE    BEAM 

'  Besides  telling  a  clear  story  of  the  non-linear  dynamics  of  the  traveling 
,  wave  tube,  the  foregoing  curves  contain  a  lot  of  information  about  aver- 
jage  current  and  velocity  distributions.  From  the  current  or  velocity 
curves  we  can  in  turn  deduce  the  distribution  of  longitudinal  electric 
field  in  the  beam.  Figs.  11(a)  and  (b)  show  the  instantaneous  current  as 
a  function  of  phase,  taken  from  the  curves  of  Figs.  8(a)  and  (b).  The 
infinite  differential  in  the  velocity  curve  necessarily  gives  a  pole  in  the 
charge  density  (at  about  88°).  The  total  charge  in  the  vicinity  of  the 


860 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


z 

UJ 
(T 

a. 

O 

UJ 

> 

u 

EC 


(a) 

A 

h 

^lo+L 

/ 

n 

V 

> 

^  ^ 

^ — '■ 

/ 

\ 

o 
> 

y  o 

i-\ 

o  u 
u 
-J  I 

>    LJ 

<  I- 

erg 

UJ 


-2 


-6 


(b) 

p\ 

^ 

,/^ 

\ 

\  ^ 

CIRCUIT 
'   FIELD 

// 

r 

\ 

y 

)^'-- 

V 

TOTAL 
FIELD 

\\ 

«    1 

V 

-180 


120 


-60  0  60 

RELATIVE    PHASE     IN    DEGREES 


120 


180 


Fig.  11  —  AC  current  and  electric  field  in  the  beam.  The  upper  curve  comes 
directly  from  Fig.  8(a).  The  lower  curve  is  deduced  by  an  approximate  method 
from  the  velocity  curve  of  Fig.  8(a).  The  double  value  below  90°  is  partly  due  to 
inconcistency  between  the  two  parts  of  the  velocity  curve,  and  partly  due  to  the 
nature  of  the  approximation. 

pole,  and  the  range  of  the  space  charge  force  (dependent  upon  QC  and 
7ro)  determines  its  effect  upon  the  electron  dynamics. 

Most  of  the  current  is  incorporated  in  the  two  bunches  nearly  180° 
apart,  as  we  have  seen,  each  bunch  having  a  current  density  many  times 
the  average. 

We  might  obtain  the  space  charge  fields  from  the  current  density,  but 
this  would  require  a  rather  definite  knowledge  of  the  characteristic 
space  charge  field  versus  distance  as  influenced  by  beam  diameter.  It 
would  also  be  pushing  the  accuracy  of  charge  density  measurement, 
which  is  crude  at  best.  A  better  way  is  to  compute  the  electron  accelera- 
tion from  the  velocity  curves.  This  may  be  done  by  taking  two  velocity 
patterns  at  slightly  different  signal  levels,  and  tracing  electrons  from  one 
to  the  next,  using  the  measured  velocity  to  determine  the  relative  phase 
shift  of  any  electron. 

In  the  appendix  it  is  shown  that  a  close  approximation  to  this  is 


E^  =  2/3CYo 


[ 


(Fo  -  FJ  +  A7' 
2FoC 


(10) 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   861 

where  the  parameters  are  all  obtained  from  a  single  velocity  curve,  and 

is  field  strength  in  volts  meter  at  phase  $ 

is  the  value  of  the  ordinate  of  the  velocity  characteristic  of 

of  interest  (Figures  7  to  10)  and 

is  the  ^'alue  of  the  ordinate  corresponding  to  the  wave 

velocity.  (To  be  precise,  the  wave  velocity  at  the  associ- 
ated output  level,  but  to  a  reasonable  approximation,  that 
of  the  wave  velocity  at  low  levels.  (This  value  is  indicated 
by  Vw  in  the  velocity  curves.) 

i  The  total  electric  field  has  been  computed  for  the  case  of  Figs.  8(a)  and 
(b)  and  is  given  in  Figs.  11(b)  and  12(b)  together  with  the  circuit  field 
.calculated  for  the  associated  power  level  and  plotted  with  an  arbitrarily 
chosen  phase.  In  each  case  it  is  seen  that  the  space  charge  field  is  com- 
parable in  magnitude  to  the  circuit  field,  is  far  from  sinusoidal,  and 


z 

UJ 

cr 
q: 

D 
O 

UJ 
> 


111 

cc 


1 

(a) 

1  . 

T    4-  i 

io  +  i* 

^_^ 

A 

Ao 

J 

^"^ 

-^■v;^-- 

^ 

■ — v 

jL 

_^^ 

u  u 

UJ 

-J  I 

UJ  H 

o 

>  UJ 

I-  tc 

<  H 

CE  9 


CIRCUIT 
FIELD 

r\ 

(b) 

y^ 

;- 

\l\ 

/ 

^ 

K 

V 

/ 

/ 

/] 

\ 

\ 

/     y 

'^y 

\V 

V,. 

^^ 

TOTAL 
FIELD 

u 

V     1 

\\ 

-J 

■180 


-120 


-60  0  60 

RELATIVE    PHASE    IN    DEGREES 


120 


180 


Fig.  12  —  AC  current  and  electric  field  in  the  beam  deduced  from  Fig.  8(b). 
The  greater  space  charge  results  in  a  less  defined  bunch,  and  smoother  space 
charge  field  than  in  Fig.  11. 


862       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

10 


>° 

o 


en 
< 

CO 

o 


-10 


OUTPUT 

POWER 

-.^ 

' 

X 

/ 

Si 


RELATIVE    HARMONIC    CURRENT 


,2  ND 

rK  \  ,ST 


CALCULATED 
1ST 


x-^ 


srd'^-^ 


V6 
\ 

X 


-30  -20  -  10  0  10 

RELATIVE    INPUT    LEVEL    IN   DB  FROM   SATURATION    DRIVE 

Fig.  13  —^Curves  of  output  level,  fourier  component  amplitudes  of  beam  cur-ij 
rent,  and  peak  velocity  as  a  function  of  input  level  for  low  space  charge.  These-: 
curves  were  deduced  from  Fig.  8 (a).  j 


0.6 


Fig.  14  —  Maximum  velocity  reduction  as  a  function  of  space  charge  (from  Fig.  J 
8).  The  velocity  reduction  is  about  3.5  iji  .  i 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   863 

agrees  qualitatively  with  what  would  be  expected  from  the  associated 
curve  of  beam  current. 

To  determine  the  curves  of  Figs.  11  and  12  is  rather  stretching  the 
accuracy  of  the  measurements  as  can  be  seen  by  the  large  discrepancy  in 
the  field  calculated  from  the  two  parts  of  the  velocity  curve  which  of 
course  should  be  identical.  The  figures  do  give  an  interesting  qualitative 
picture  of  traveling  wave  tube  behavior  however,  and  are  included  here 
for  that  reason. 

OVERALL  VELOCITY  SPREAD 

Of  more  practical  importance  is  the  overall  velocity  spread  in  the 
spent  beam.  It  is  often  desirable  to  reduce  the  power  dissipation  in  a 
traveling  wave  tube  by  operating  the  collector  at  a  potential  below  that 
of  the  electron  beam,  and  it  is  interesting  to  see  how  far  one  might  go. 
Fig.  13  shows  how  the  velocity  reduction  of  the  slowest  electron,  together 
with  the  output  level  and  fourier  current  components  of  beam  current 
vary  with  input  level.  For  small  amplitudes,  the  low  level  theory  ac- 
curately predicts  the  velocity,  but  near  overload,  as  we  have  seen,  the 
minimum  \'elocity  drops  sharply  to  a  value  several  times  lower  than  that 
projected  from  small  signal  theory. 

The  maximum  velocity  spread  dependence  upon  the  space  charge 
parameter  QC  is  shown  in  Fig.  14.  Similar  data  for  values  of  the  other 
parameters  may  be  obtained  from  the  velocity  diagrams. 

From  the  foregoing  data,  one  can  deduce  the  amount  of  reduction  of 
collector  potential  that  should  be  theoretically  possible  wdthout  turning 
back  any  electrons.  An  idealized  unipotential  anode  could  collect  all  the 
current  at  a  potential  AF  (in  the  foregoing  figures)  above  the  cathode, 
decreasing  the  dissipated  power  by  a  factor  of  AF/Fo  below  the  dc  beam 
power. 

STOPPING   POTENTIAL   MEASUREMENTS 

Information  on  spent  beam  velocity  has  also  been  obtained  by  a  stop- 
ping-potential measurement  at  the  collector  of  a  more  conventional 
4,000-mc  traveling  wave  tube.*  Two  fine  mesh  grids  were  closely  spaced 
to  a  flat  collecting  plate,  and  collector  current  was  measured  as  a  func- 
tion of  the  potential  of  second  grid.  The  first  grid  was  very  dense,  to 
prevent  reflected  electrons  from  returning  into  the  helix.  One  curve  taken 
with  this  arrangement  is  shown  in  Fig.  15  and  for  comparison  we  have 


*  Similar  measurements  have  been  reported  by  Atsumi  Kondo,  Improvement 
of  the  Efficiency  of  the  Traveling  Wave  Tube,  at  the  I.R.E.  Annual  Conference  on 
Electron  Tube  Research,  Stanford  University,  June  18,  1953. 


864 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


plotted  the  distribution  predicted  from  Fig.  9(b).  The  RF  losses  in  the 
4,000-mc  tube  were  not  neghgible,  and  probably  account  for  slightly 
smaller  power  output  and  greater  proportion  of  higher  velocity  electrons. 

COMPARISON  WITH  COMPUTED  CURVES 

Non-linear  calculations  of  traveling  wave  tube  behavior  have  been 
made  by  Tien,  Walker  and  Wolontis'  and  by  Tien^  covering  the  same 
region  of  parameter  values  as  is  reported  here.  In  Figs.  2,  3,  4  and  9  are 
shown  some  of  their  data  on  our  coordinates.  The  similarity  of  the 
results  over  much  of  the  range  is  rather  reassuring.  It  is  interesting  that 
in  order  to  make  the  computations  it  was  necessary  to  assume  two  space 
charge  factors,  just  as  was  found  experimentally.  There  are,  however, 
some  significant  differences: 

1.  In  general,  the  computed  values  give  a  higher  ^alue  of  efliciency 
than  is  measured,  by  about  25  per  cent.  Thus,  the  computations  indicate 


rwm(m^ 


^ 


Hill 


zero  signal 
characteristic: 

IDEAL ^>4 

MEASURED ^j 

I 
I 


l( 


-400 


0  400  800 

STOPPING    GRID    VOLTAGE 


I 
1200 


■  F^^'  A  ZZ.  '^^^\^^  current  versus  stopping  potential.  The  oscilloscope  curve 
IS  tor  a  4,0n0-mc  tube,  and  the  other  that  predicted  from  the  scale  model  meas- 
urements. By  integrating  current  as  a  function  of  velocit  v  for  Figs.  7-10  stopping 
potential  distributions  can  be  deduced  for  other  conditions 


NATUEE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   865 


3.5 


3.0 


2.5 


2.0 


c 


1.5 


(.0 


0.5 


• ^ 

•   \ 

\ 

,j 

.. ^, 

\ 
\ 
S 

V 


0.2 


0.4 


0.6 


0.8 


1.0     1.2 

7ro 


1.4 


1.6 


1.8 


2.0 


2.2 


Fig.  16  —  Efficiency  versus  7ro  for  small  QC.  The  dashed  curve  is  proportional 
to  the  amount  of  beam  current  in  the  circuit  field  strength  having  at  least  85  per 
cent  of  the  intensity  at  the  edge  of  the  beam.  This  illustrates  the  fact  that  for 
large  beams  only  the  edge  of  the  beam  is  effective. 


that  with  the  reasonable  vahies  of  QC  =  .25  and  7ro  =  0.8  {kr  =  2.5), 
the  efficiency  would  be  about  3.8C,  whereas  the  measured  value  is  3.1C. 
2.  The  largest  discrepancy  in  the  measured  and  computed  value  of 
r]/C  is  for  large  values  of  yro  (small  kr),  where  the  computations  show  a 
steady  increase  in  efficiency  instead  of  a  sharp  decrease.  This  arises  be- 
cause the  computational  model  assumed  the  electric  field  to  be  uniform 
across  the  beam,  whereas  in  the  actual  tube  it  varies  as  loiyr),  and  for 
large  values  of  77-0  the  field  is  weak  near  the  beam  axis.  This  effect  is 
shown  in  Fig.  16  where  rj/C  is  plotted  versus  yro  for  small  values  of  QC, 
on  the  same  scale  with  a  curve  proportional  to  the  square  of  the  fraction 
of  the  beam  within  a  cylindrical  shell  such  that 


1  - 


Io(yn) 
hiyro) 


=  0.85 


(11) 


where  ri  is  the  inside  radius,  and  ro  the  outside  beam  radius  (i.e.,  the 
fraction  of  the  beam  in  a  field  greater  than  85  per  cent  of  that  at  the 
beam  edge). 

No  serious  studies  of  velocity  were  made  for  large  beams,  but  on  cur- 
sory examination  it  was  evident  that  the  beam  modulation  varied  con- 
siderably over  the  cross  section  when  the  beam  was  very  large,  and 
scarcely  at  all  when  it  was  smaller  than  around  yro  <  0.8. 


866       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

3.  The  observed  effect  of  small  beam  radius  upon  efficiency  is  not  as 
pronounced  as  was  found  in  the  computations.  The  reason  is  not  kno^^^l 
but  may  be  due  to  modulation  of  the  beam  diameter  at  large  signal  levels. 
This  effect  would  be  neghgible  with  the  larger  Tro's,  due  to  the  focusing 
fields  being  relatively  much  larger. 

4.  The  computations,  and  also  those  of  Nordsieck,  Poulter  and  Rowe^ 
indicate  a  much  higher  efficiency  than  has  been  observed  at  elevated 
beam  voltages  and  small  C  and  QC.  The  reason  for  this  may  be  that 
the  limited  number  of  "electrons"  used  in  the  computational  models 
fail  to  adequately  account  for  the  very  sharp  space  charge  cusp  that 
forms  under  low  QC  conditions,  or  that  interpolation  between  their 
points  should  not  be  linear,  as  assumed  in  making  the  comparison. 
On  the  other  hand  it  would  be  difficult  to  be  sure  that  nonuniformities 
in  electron  emission  were  not  influencing  the  measurements  in  the  case 
of  the  large  beams  by  giving  a  larger  QC  than  calculated. 

5.  The  increase  in  efficiency  to  be  had  by  elevation  of  beam  voltage  is 
much  smaller  than  is  indicated  by  the  computations.  This  may  be  a  real 
difference,  or  it  may  be  that  at  elevated  voltages,  the  measurements  are 
beginning  to  feel  the  influence  of  overloading  in  the  attenuator.  The 
margin  of  safety  on  attenuator  overloading  is  not  as  great  as  one  would 
like  at  the  higher  frequencies. 

6.  The  velocity  curves,  Fig.  8,  compare  the  computed  and  measured 
data  on  three  runs.  For  small  QC,  Fig.  8(a),  the  agreement  is  remarkably 
good  considering  the  fact  that  in  the  computation  only  24  "electrons" 
were  used  to  describe  a  rather  complicated  function.  The  effect  of  the 
lumping  of  space  charge  in  the  artificial  'disc'  electrons  causes  a  scatter- 
of  points  which  is  different  from  that  in  an  actual  tube  as  is  especially 
apparent  in  Figure  8c.  In  spite  of  this  the  computational  results  indicate 
a  velocity  spread  and  current  distribution  not  greatly  different  from  that 
observed. 


CONCLUSIONS 

The  large  scale  model  traveling  wave  tube  is  a  means  for  the  deter- 
mination of  non-hnear  behavior,  and  has  been  valuable  in  determining 
relationships  and  limitations  important  to  efficient  operation  of  such 
tubes.  It  has  shown  that  there  is  a  broad  optimum  in  tube  parameters 
around  C  =  0.14  QC  =  0.2  and  7ro  =  0.5  for  which  values  it  is  possible 
to  obtain  efficiencies  well  above  30  per  cent.  The  measured  ac  beam 
velocity  and  current  near  overload  show  that  it  is  unlikely  that  signifi- 
cant increase  in  efficiency  can  be  obtained  by  any  simple  expedients  such 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   867 

as  operations  on  the  helix  pitch  alone,  or  the  use  of  an  auxiliary  output 
circuit. 

The  results  being  in  normalized  form,  are  believed  to  be  generally 
applicable  to  conventional  traveling  wave  tube  design.  With  determina- 
tion of  an  equivalence  yi  beams,  they  should  even  be  a  useful  guide  in 
the  design  of  tubes  using  hollow  beams  or  other  configurations. 

The  work  described  could  not  have  been  done  without  the  able  assist- 
ance of  G.  J.  Stiles  and  L.  J.  Heilos  and  the  helpful  council  of  many  of 
my  colleagues  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories. 

Appendix 
scale  model  tube  design 

There  were  a  larger  number  of  factors  to  be  accounted  for  in  the  de- 
sign of  this  tube.  Its  proportions  should  be  such  as  to  make  it  repre- 
sentative of  the  usual  design  of  traveling  wave  tube.  Its  size  should  be 
such  as  to  make  it  easy  to  define  the  electron  beam  boundary,  and  to 
dissect  the  beam.  The  size  should  also  be  such  that  the  electron  beam 
velocity  analysis  could  be  done  before  the  beam  character  would  be 
changed  either  by  space  charge,  or  its  velocity  spread.  The  voltage  should 
he  low  so  that  further  acceleration  in  the  velocity  analyzer  would  not 
lead  to  an  inconveniently  high  voltage.  Finally,  the  availability  of  suit- 
able measuring  gear  over  a  3-1  frequency  range,  and  the  size  of  the 
laboratory  must  be  considered.  All  of  these  factors  led  to  low  frequency 
operation,  limited  principally  by  the  laboratory  size  and  the  mechanics 
of  construction. 

A  moderate  perveance  of  around  0.2  X  10~  was  taken,  with  a  7a  of 
1.2  and  7ro  of  0.8  in  a  representative  helix  with  small  impedance  reduc- 
tion due  to  dielectric  and  space  harmonic  loading.  This  is  representative 
of  practical  tube  design  in  the  microwave  range  and  is  centered  on  the 
parameter  values  of  most  general  interest.  At  a  frequency  of  100  mc  and 
a  beam  potential  of  400  volts  this  resulted  in  a  helix  10  feet  long  and  l}^ 
inches  in  diameter,  with  an  electron  beam  1  inch  in  diameter.  The 
choice  of  frequency  was  finally  determined  by  the  availability  of  meas- 
uring equipment,  and  the  voltage  was  selected  to  give  a  convenient  size 
for  dissection  of  the  electron  beam. 

By  changing  frequency,  beam  current,  and  beam  diameter  it  was 
!  possible  to  cover  a  reasonable  range  of  yro ,  and  QC,  and  to  make  some 
observations  into  the  region  of  large  C  operation. 

In  all  of  the  measurements  described,  a  very  strong  uniform  magnetic 
field  was  used  to  confine  the  beam,  and  therefore  scaling  of  the  magnetic 


868       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

focusing  field  need  not  be  considered.  The  electron  beam  was  produced 
in  a  gridded  gun  and  is  thus  near  to  the  ideal  confined  flow,  which  is  the 
only  focusing  arrangement  which  is  known  to  determine  a  reasonably- 
uniform  boundary  to  the  beam.  The  beam  size  and  straightness  was 
checked  using  a  fluorescent  screen  at  the  collector  end.  \ 

NORMALIZING   FACTORS 

The  measurements  described  are  expressed  relative  to  the  linear 
theory,  in  Pierce's'  notation,  which  are  generally  used  in  the  design  of 
traveling  wave  tubes.  Thus,  instead  of  being  presented  in  the  terms  of 
measurement  or  simply  normalized  to  efficiency,  perveance,  impedance, 
etc.,  they  are  expressed  in  terms  of  C,  QC,  yro ,  etc.,  with  normalized 
fields,  currents  and  velocities.  In  this  way  the  results  become  adjuncts 
to  the  linear  theory  and  are  more  easily  applied  to  tube  design.  Electron 
velocity  is  plotted  on  the  same  scale  as  the  relative  velocity  parameters 
b  and  yi  used  in  low  level  theory,  (i.e.,  normalized  to  AV/2VoC).  Effi- 
ciency is  normalized  as  r]/C,  which  for  C  less  than  0.1  is  relatively  inde- 
pendent of  C.  Field  strength  in  the  linear  region  is  proportional  to 


v't 


{ri   being  efficiency  measured  at  the  appropriate  signal  level).  Solving 
the  equation  for  C  , 


>3  E         lo 


^   ~WP2Vo  ^^^^ 


gives  us 


V 


^  (13) 


C       /3C2F, 


which  we  use  as  the  normalizing  parameter  for  electric  field.  Circuit  po- 
tential is  the  integral  of  circuit  field  over  a  quarter  period,  giving  a 
normalized  parameter  V/VoC  .  For  convenience  in  the  use  of  common 
coordinates,  circuit  potential  was  plotted  as  —V/2VoC^  in  Figure  7. 

The  other  curves  are  plotted  as  values  relative  to  dc  quantities  or  to 
saturation  level. 

Strictly  speaking,  the  results  hold  only  for  tubes  having  the  same  pro- 
portions as  the  model.  Practically,  however,  as  long  as  the  helix  imped- 
ance and  radius  {ka  or  ya)  are  not  different  by  orders  of  magnitude  from 
the  values  used,  and  as  long  as  the  perveance  is  low  (below  2  X  10~^  for 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   869 


instance),  the  results  are  believed  to  be  significant  for  tubes  having  the 
indicated  values  of  7ro  and  QC. 


Il  HELIX   IMPEDANCE 

It  is  important  to  the  measurements  to  have  an  accurate  evaluation 
[of  the  helix  impedance.  Several  methods  of  measurement  have  been 
discussed  in  the  literature.^^ '  ^^  That  described  by  R.  Kompfner  was 
I  selected,  wherein  the  circuit  impedance  is  correlated  with  the  beam 
current  and  voltage  which  gives  a  null  in  the  output  signal.  When  the 
beam  voltage  and  current  are  adjusted  to  give  zero  transmission  for  a 
lossless  section  of  helix  (neglecting  space  charge)  CN  =  0.314  and 
5F/Fo  =  1/A^.  Using  the  measured  length  of  the  helix,  and  measuring 
the  voltage  and  current  giving  the  null  in  signal  transmission,  we  can 
compute  C,  and  thus  the  impedance  and  velocity  (synchronous  voltage) 
of  the  hehx. 

The  impedance  was  calculated  by  P.  K.  Tien,^'  and  the  results  are 
compared  in  Fig.  17.  The  measured  impedance  at  the  high  frequency 
end  was  much  too  low  until  space  charge  in  the  beam  was  accounted  for 
in  interpreting  the  measurements.  Fortunately,  in  the  absence  of  attenu- 


1000 
800 

600 
400 


^    200 
UJ 

u7  100 
o 


z 
< 

Q 
Hi 
Q. 

5 


80 


60 


40 


20 


10 


- 

^ 

- 

N 

- 

\( 

- 

CALCULATED - 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

- 

\ 

- 

\ 

- 

MEASURED   POINTS- 

-^ 

V 

- 

N 

I 

40        80 
FREQUENCY 


120        160       200 
MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


240 


Fig.  17  —  Helix  impedance  as  a  function  of  frequency.  The  impedance  was 
calculated  taking  into  account  dielectric  loading  and  wire  size.  It  was  measured 
using  the  Kompfner  dip  method,  taking  account  of  space  charge. 


870      THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

ation,  the  conditions  for  start  of  oscillation  in  a  backward  wave  oscillator 
are  the  same  as  for  the  output  null  in  a  traveling  wave  tube.  Space  charge 
was  first  accounted  for  using  the  results  of  H.  Heffner'^' "  giving  an 
excellent  check  between  predicted  and  computed  helix  impedance.  Later 
C.  F.  Quate  showed  that  the  same  measurement  could  be  used  to  de- 
termine the  space  charge  parameter  QC  as  well  as  the  helix  impedance. 
Since  thermal  velocity  effects  and  the  uncertainty  of  some  of  the  assump- 
tions used  in  evaluating  the  small  signal  effects  of  space  charge  cast 
some  doubt  on  the  proper  evaluation  of  this  term,  further  measurements 
were  made  on  this  factor,  and  a  satisfactory  correlation  between  the  ob- 
served value  of  QC  and  that  computed  from  the  Fletcher^'^  curves  was 
obtained. 

TOTAL   ACCELERATING   FIELDS 

From  the  velocity  characteristics  shown  in  Figs.  7  through  10,  we  can 
deduce  the  electron  accelerations,  and  thus  the  electric  fields  at  any 
point.  While  the  curves  are  actually  diagrams  of  velocity  as  a  function 
of  phase,  they  closely  correspond  to  the  velocity- time  or  distance  distri- 
bution of  the  electrons  in  the  traveling  wave  tube.  Knowing  these  charac- 
teristics we  can  deduce  the  motion  of  any  element  of  charge,  and  thus  the 
force  under  which  it  moves.  It  is  observed  that  over  most  of  the  curve 
the  shape  of  the  velocity  pattern  does  not  change  nearly  so  rapidly  as 
the  redistribution  of  electrons  within  the  pattern.  Thus,  we  can  approxi- 
mate the  situation  at  any  amplitude  by  assuming  the  velocity  pattern 
to  be  constant,  and  that  electrons  move  within  the  pattern  according  to 
simple  particle  dynamics.  This  is  a  good  approximation  except  where 
the  acceleration  is  high  (i.e.,  vertical  crossings  of  the  wave  velocity  line). 

Consider  then  an  element  of  the  velocity  pattern  at  phase  $i  and 
velocity  (wo  +  Aw).  In  an  interval  dt  this  element  will  move  a  distance 

(wo  +  Aw)  dt  (14) 

and  will  change  velocity  by 

du  =  E  -dt  (15) 

m 

At  the  same  time  the  wave  will  have  moved  a  distance  v  dt,  resulting  in 
a  relative  change  in  phase  between  wave  and  current  element  of 

d^  =  ^(uo  -  V  -\-  Aw)  dt  (16) 

In  terms  of  equivalent  differences  the  term  in  brackets  can  be  written 

(«.  - . + A„)  =  a/7T7.  c  (^°  - ;: + "0    <i^> 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   871 


from  (16)  and  (17)  we  can  write: 


du 

du  d^ 

It 

d^  dt 

d  (  AV 

d<p  \2VoC  y 

giving  (from  15) 

E 

y      m 


^FoC2 


=  2 


Yo  -  F, 
.    2Fo(7 


)*(. 


AF^ 
2FoC, 


-  F.  +  AF^ 
2FoC 


AF  ^ 

2FoC, 


.     (18) 


(19) 


;8,  Fo  and  C  are  constants  of  the  tube,  the  first  inner  parenthesis  may 
be  calculated  from  the  tube  constants  and  is  shown  in  the  curves. 
AF/FoC  and  its  differential  are  the  value  and  the  slope  of  the  velocity- 
curve  in  question. 

The  important  approximations  here  are  that  the  velocity-phase  curves 
are  representative  of  velocity-distance  characteristics,  which  is  true  for 
small  values  of  C,  and  that  the  electrons  move  roughly  tangent  to  the 
given  velocity  pattern.  By  comparing  several  patterns  at  different  signal 
levels  it  is  observed  that  this  is  true  to  a  fair  accuracy  over  most  of  the 
curve.  Also  it  is  assumed  that  the  wave  velocity  at  large  amplitudes  is 
the  same  as  that  for  small  signals,  which  is  not  quite  true.  The  resulting 
curves  give  at  least  a  qualitative  picture  of  the  field  distribution  within 
a  traveling  wave  tube,  and  serve  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  space 
charge  fields  in  determining  the  non-linear  characteristics. 

ELECTRIC   FIELD    OF   THE   HELIX   WAVE 

In  order  to  see  what  part  of  the  field  is  due  to  space  charge  we  must 
evaluate  the  corresponding  helix  fields.  A  value  for  this  can  be  derived 
from  the  basic  traveling  wave  tube  equations  assuming  the  helix  fields  to 
be  sinusoidal  and  not  seriously  affected  in  impedance  by  the  beam  (small 
C  again) .  By  definition 


E"-     h 


2jS2P  4Fo 


=  C' 


(18) 


and 


1 
C 


/oFoC 


(19) 


where  77'  is  normalized  power  level,  i.e.,  efficiency  corresponding  to  the 
signal  level  E  of  interest.  From  this  we  deduce  for  the  normalized  circuit 


872       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

field 

which  integrates  to  give  a  normalized  ac  circuit  voltage 

V 


2V2V0C'' 


i/i 


(20) 


(21) 


RELATIVE  PHASE  BETWEEN  WAVE,   VELOCITY  AND   CURRENT 

The  velocity  analyzer  provides  no  convenient  measure  of  relative 
phase  between  the  helix  w^ave  and  the  beam  modulation.  Therefore  we 
compute  the  relation  of  helix  field  and  beam  modulation  for  a  small  ]| 
signal,  and  for  large  amplitudes  measure  the  phase  of  each  relative  to 
that  at  small  amplitudes. 

-VTV 


Pierce  gives  the  relationship' 


V  = 


Uo(j^  -  r) 

which  using  (9)  and  the  fact  that        j3eC8  —  jjSe  —  T 
gives  for  the  small  signal  beam  modulation 


(22) 
(23) 


AV 


V2 


4/l=^v1IHi:)-i   (-) 


2VoC  '     b 

Similarly  we  have  for  the  small  signal  current  modulation 


h 


\/-'l 


■8- 


2  tan- 


Vi 


(25) 


The  value  of  8(=  xi  +  jiji)  is  given  in  Fig.  18,  drawn  from  data  sup- 
plied by  P.  K.  Tien,  from  Pierce'  and  from  Birdsall  and  Brewer. ^^  This 
figure  was  also  used  as  a  basis  for  determining  the  values  of  yi  and  h  used 
in  several  of  the  curves. 


MEASUREMENT    OF    POWER 

The  output  power,  and  relative  output  phase  was  measured  using  a 
tnicro-oscilloscope."  The  subharmonic  of  the  signal  was  used  for  a  sweep 
voltage,  and  phase  was  measured  from  the  shape  of  the  observed  lissajou 
figures.  The  oscilloscope  deflection  was  compared  with  the  dc  deflection 
from  a  battery  standard,  and  checked  on  occasion  with  a  bolometer 
power  meter  at  the  operating  frequency. 

THE   VELOCITY   ANALYZER 

There  are  many  ways  in  which  one  may  separate  velocities  in  an  elec- 
tron stream.  Crossed  electric  and  magnetic  fields  were  used  in  this  ex- 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   873 


2.0 


1.8 


1.6 


1.4 


1.2 


1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


.^^^ 

^ 

,-' 

-;; 

(-y,) 

\'< 

>'  ^ 

^ 

y 

■::; 

A, 

/ 

^ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

^ 

f 

/ 

^, 

/ 

/ 

0.1 


0.2 


0.3 


0.4 


0.5    0.6 

QC 


0.7 


0.8 


0.9 


1.0 


1.1 


Fig.  18  —  Increasing  wave  propagation  factors  used  in  interpreting  the  meas- 
urements. These  are  the  maximum  value  of  x\  and  the  corresponding  value  of  6 
and  y\  for  given  values  of  QC. 


^  periment  because  a  simple  control  of  sensitivity  was  important  in  order 
I  to  study  velocity  differences  ranging  from  1  per  cent  up  to  as  much  as 
1 100  per  cent  of  the  dc  beam  velocity. 

The  velocity  analyzer  is  sketched  in  Fig.  5.  It  consists  of  an  aperture 
which  transmits  only  a  few  microamperes  of  the  electron  stream;  a  mag- 
netic pole  piece  (not  shown)  terminating  the  focusing  field;  a  pair  of 
horizontal  deflection  plates;  an  electrostatic  lens  system;  pole  pieces  and 
j  deflection  plate  to  provide  a  region  with  crossed  electric  and  magnetic 
'fields;  and  finally  a  drift  tube,  a  post  deflection  acceleration  electrode 
,aiid  fluorescent  screen.  The  whole  assembly  is  raised  1,000  volts  above 
the  helix  potential  and  the  0.001 "  aperture  is  very  close  to  the  end  of  the 
helix,  so  that  the  electrons  are  very  quickly  accelerated  to  a  high  voltage. 
V>Y  this  means,  the  region  of  debunching  outside  of  the  helix  field  is  kept 
t)clow  1.4  radians  transit  angle  and  the  velocity  spread  within  the  ana- 
lyzer is  reduced  by  a  factor  of  four.  Space  charge  within  the  analyzer  is 
<'iitirely  negligible  because  of  the  small  current  transmitted. 

In  order  to  discriminate  in  phase  before  the  electrons  are  scrambled 


87*1  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 

due  to  their  spread  in  velocity,  the  horizontal  sweeping  plates  are 
mounted  just  as  close  to  the  aperture  as  is  deemed  practical.  The  ob- 
served velocity  spreads  in  the  beam  were  such  as  to  give  less  than  0.2 
radians  error  in  phase  under  the  worst  conditions. 

The  horizontal  deflecting  plates  were  driven  synchronously  with  a 
sub-harmonic  of  the  RF  input  to  the  helix,  and  the  resulting  deflection 
served  to  separate  electrons  according  to  phase  in  the  final  display. 

Placing  the  focusing  lens  after  the  deflection  plates  results  in  a  con- 
siderable reduction  in  deflection  sensitivity.  However,  undesirable  mag- 
nification of  the  pinhole  aperture  dictated  that  the  lens  could  not  be 
close  to  it,  and  it  was  important  to  initiate  the  deflection  as  early  as 
possible.  The  lens  consists  of  three  discs,  the  center  one  being  biased  to 
about  800  volts  above  the  mean  voltage  of  the  rest  of  the  system. 

Immediately  after  the  lens  there  are  two  iron  pole  pieces  and  two  insu- 
lated electric  deflection  plates  which  extend  parallel  to  the  beam  for  IJ^ 
inches.  The  pole  pieces  provide  a  dc  magnetic  field  up  to  about  20  gausses 
induced  by  small  coils  outside  of  the  envelope,  and  the  electric  deflection 
plates  are  biased  with  up  to  a  corresponding  50  volts  dc  polarized  to 
oppose  the  magnetic  deflection  of  the  beam.  The  electric  and  magnetic 
fields  are  adjusted  so  that  the  normal  unmodulated  electron  beam  tra- 
verses the  region  with  no  deflection  and  strikes  the  center  of  the  fluores- 
cent screen.  In  the  crossed  field  region 

1=  W^2^Fo.  (26) 

Electrons  having  greater  or  lesser  velocity  are  deflected  parallel  to  the 
electric  field,  and  give  a  corresponding  deflection  from  the  center  of  the 
fluorescent  screen. 

To  get  a  display  in  which  the  various  elements  are  not  hopelessly  en- 
tangled, it  was  necessary  to  sweep  the  trace  in  an  initial  ellipse  at  a 

subharmonic  rate.  The  sweep  voltage  was  applied  to  the  horizontal  de-  : 

flection  plates,  with  just  a  little  applied  to  the  vertical  plates  through  a  , 

phase  shifter.  The  relative  phase  of  any  part  of  the  trace  was  measured  k 

from  the  ellipse,  and  the  velocity  sensitivity  was  calibrated  by  observing  | 

the  ellipse  deflection  as  a  function  of  the  dc  beam  potential,  as  shown  f 

in  Fig.  6(a).  There  is  a  small  error  due  to  the  sensitivity  of  deflection  to  ( 

velocity,  and  due  to  distortion  of  the  ellipse  by  fringing  fields.  ( 

In  order  to  measure  velocity  and  current  density  in  the  displayed  pat-  ;; 

tern,  the  fluorescent  screen  was  photographed,  and  the  negati^'e  pro-  h 

jected  in  a  microcomparator.  It  was  assumed  that  with  the  small  ciu'rents  P 

used,  the  light  intensity  was  proportional  to  current,  and  the  film  i 

linearity  was  calibrated  by  making  exposures  of  several  different  dura-  j 
tions.  The  trace  density  was  measured  with  a  densitometer,  sweeping 


NATURE  OF  POWER  SATURATION  IN  TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBES   875 

over  the  trace  width  to  account  for  variations  in  focus  for  different  parts 
of  the  pattern.  Admittedly,  the  process  is  not  very  accurate,  but  it  does 
give  a  rough  measure  of  current  density  and  helps  considerably  in  in- 
terpreting the  observed  velocity  patterns. 

NOMENCLATURE 

a  Circuit  radius 

6  Parameter  relating  electron  velocity  to  that  of  the  cold  circuit 
wave  Uq  —  Vi/uqC  =  AF/2FoC 

B  Magnetic  field 

(8  the  axial  phase  constant  co/^i 

C  The  gain  parameter  =  (E^/2l3^P)  (/o/4Fo) 

7  Radial  phase  constant  =  ^  =  co/^i 

8i  Complex  propagation  constant  for  the  increasing  wave 

I  E  Electric  field 

A'*  Electric  field  at  phase  $ 

c/m  Charge  to  mass  ratio  of  the  electron 

i  h  Beam  current  in  amperes 

/„(     )  Modified  Bessel  function 

'  /,>  Tien's  constant  k,  =  2/7^0 

l.ri  Circuit  circumference  measured  in  (air)  wavelengths 

X  Number  of  wavelengths 

7]  Maximum  efficiency 

f]'  Efficiency  at  an  intermediate  power  level 

^  P  RF  power  obtainable  from  the  circuit 

j,  QC  Space  charge  parameter 

I  q  Charge  per  unit  length  in  the  electron  beam 

/■  Radial  distance  from  the  axis 

j  Vq  Beam  radius 

t  Time  variable 

Electron  velocity 
DC  beam  velocity 

V  AC  velocity  of  the  electron  beam 

t\  Wave  velocity 

Fo  DC  beam  voltage 

7',„  Voltage  corresponding  to  the  wave  velocity 

AF  ^^oltage  difference  corresponding  to  the  difference  in  velocity  of 
an  electron  and  the  dc  beam  velocity 

bV  Difference  between  synchronous  voltage  and  that  giving  the 
Kompfner  dip 

$  Relative  phase 

z  Distance  measured  along  the  beam 


"0 


876       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

REFERENCES 

1.  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Theory  of  the  Beam  Type  Traveling  Wave  Tube,  Proc.  I.R.E., 

35,  pp.  111-123,  Feb.,  1947. 

2.  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Traveling  Wave  Tubes,  D.  VanNostrand  Co.,  Chapter  XII. 

3.  Slater,  J.  C,  Microwave  Electronics,  D.  VanNostrand  Co.,  1950,  pp.  298. 

4.  Brillouin,  L.,  The  Traveling  Wave  Tube  (Discussion  of  Waves  of  Large  Ampli- 

tudes), J.  Appl.  Phys.,  20,  p.  1197,  Dec,  1949. 

5.  Nordsieck,  A.,  Theory  of  the  Large  Signal  Behavior  of  Traveling  Wave  Ampli- 

fier, Proc.  I.R.E.,  41,  pp.  630-647,  May,  1953. 

6.  Poulter,  H.  C,  Large  Signal  Theory  of  the  Traveling  Wave  Tube,  Tech. 

Report  No.   73  Electronics  Research  Laboratory,   Stanford  University, 
Stanford,  California,  Jan.,  1954. 

7.  Tien,  P.  K.,  Walker,  L.  R.,  and  Wolontis,  V.  M.,  A  Large  Signal  Theory  of 

Traveling  Wave  Amplifiers,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  pp.  260-277,  Mar.  1955. 

8.  Rowe,  J.  E.,  A  Large  Signal  Analysis  of  the  Traveling  Wave  Amplifier,  Tech- 

nical Report  No.  19,  Electron  Tube  Laboratory,  Universit.y  of  Michigan. 

9.  Tien,  P.  K.,  A  Large  Signal  Theory  of  Traveling  Wave  Amplifiers  Including! 

the  Effects  of  Space  Charge  and'Finite  C,  B.S.T.J.,  34,  Mar.,  1956. 

10.  Brangaccio,  D.  J.,  and  Cutler,  C.  C,  Factors  Affecting  Traveling  Wave  Tube 

Power  Capacity,  Trans.  I.R.E.  Professional  Group  of  Electron  Devices, 
PGED  3,  June,  1953. 

11.  Crumly,  C.  B.,  Quarterly  Status  Progress  Report  No.  26,  Electronics  Re- 

search Laboratory,  Stanford  Universitj',  Stanford,  California,  pp.  10-12. 

12.  Doehler,  O.,  et  Kleen,  W.,  Phenomenes  non  Lin^aires  dans  les  Tubes  a  Propa- 

gation D'onde"  Annales  de  Radioelectricit^  (Paris),  3,  pp.  124-143,  1948. 

13.  Doehler,  O.,  et  Kleen,  W.,  Surle  Rendement  du  Tube  a  Propagation  D'onde," 

Annales  de  Radio^lectricite,  Tome  IV  No.  17  Juillet,  1949  pp.  216-221. 

14.  Berterotidre,  R.,  et  Convert,  G.,  Sur  Certains  Effets  de  la  Charge  D'espace 

dans  les  Tubes  a  Propagation  D'onde,  Annales  de  Radio^lectricit^,  Tome 
V,  No.  21,  Juillet,  1950. 

15.  Klein,  W.,  und  Friz,  W.,  Beitrag  zum  Verhalten  von  Wanderfeldrahren  bei 

Hohen  Engangspegeln,  F.T.Z.,  pp.  349-357,  July,  1954. 

16.  Warnecke,  R.  R.,  L'^volution  des  Principes  des  Tubes  Electroniques  Modernes 

pourMicro-ondes,  Convegno  di  Elellronica  e  Televisione,  Milano,  p.  12-17, 
Aprile,  1954. 

17.  Warnecke,  R.  R.,  Sur  Quelques  R^sultats  R^cemment  Obtenus  dans  le  Do- 

maine  des  Tubes  Electroniques  pour  Hyperfrequences,  Annales  de  Radio- 
^lectricite.  Tome  IX,  No.  36,  Avril,  1954. 

18.  Warnecke,  R.,  Guenard,  P.,  and  Doehler,  O.,  Phenomenes  fondamentaux  dans 

les  Tubes  k  onde  Progressive,  Onde  Electrique,  France,  34,  No.  325,  p 
323-338,  1954. 

19.  Briick,  L.,  und  Lauer,  R.,  Die  Telefunken  Wanderfeldrohre  TL6,  Die  Tele 

funken-Rohre  Heft  32,  pp.  1-21,  Februar,  1955. 

20.  Briick,  L.,  Vergleich  der  Verschiedenen  Formeln  fiir  den  Wirkungsgrad  einer 

Wanderfeldrohre,  Die  Telefunken-Rohre  Heft  32,  pp.  23-37,  Februar,  1955 

21.  Cutler,  C.  C,  Experimental  Determination  of  Helical  Wave  Properties,  Proc 

I.R.E. ,  36,  pp.  230-233,  Feb.,  1948. 

22.  Kompfner,  R.,  On  the  Operation  of  the  Traveling  Wave  Tube  at  Low  Level 

Journal  British  I.R.E.,  10,  p.  283,  Aug.-Sept.,  1950. 

23.  Tien,  P.  K.,  Traveling-Wave  Tube  Helix  Impedance,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  41,  pp 

1617-1623,  Nov.,  1953. 

24.  Heffner,  H.,  Analysis  of  the  Backward-Wave  Traveling-Wave  Tube,  Proc 

I.R.E.,  42,  pp.  930-937,  June,  1954. 

25.  Johnson,  H.  R.,  Kompfner  Dip  Conditions,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  43,  p.  874,  July,  1955 

26.  Quate,  C.  F.,  Power  Series  Solution  and  Measurement  of  Effective  QC  in 

Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  Oral  presentation  at  Conference  on  Electron  Tube 
Research,  University  of  Maine,  June,  1954. 

27.  Fletcher,  R.  C,  Helix  Parameters  in  Traveling  Wave  Tube  Theory,  Proc. 

I.R.E.,  38,  pp.  413-417,  Apr.,  1950. 

28.  Birdsall,  C.  K.,  and  Brewer,  G.  R.,  Traveling  Wave  Tube  Characteristics  for 

Finite  Values  of  C,  Trans.  I.R.E.,  PGED-1,  pp.  1-11,  Aug.,  1954. 

29.  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Traveling  Wave  Oscilloscope,  Electronics,  22,  Nov.,  1949. 


I 


The  Field  Displacement  Isolator 

By  S.  WEISBAUM  and  H.  SEIDEL 

(Manuscript  received  February  7,  1956) 

A  nonreciprocal  ferrite  device  (field  displacement  isolator)  has  been  con- 
structed with  reverse  to  forward  loss  ratios  of  about  150  in  the  region  from 
5,925  to  6,425  mc/sec.  The  forward  loss  is  of  the  order  of  0.2  dh  while  the 
reverse  loss  is  30  dh.  These  results  are  obtained  by  using  a  single  ferrite 
element,  spaced  from  the  sidewall  of  the  guide.  The  low  forward  loss  suggests 
the  existence  of  an  electric  field  nidi  at  the  location  of  a  resistance  strip  on 
one  face  of  the  ferrite.  We  discuss  the  various  conditions,  derived  theoretically, 
under  which  the  electric  field  null  may  be  obtained  and  utilized.  Further- 
more, a  method  of  scaling  is  demonstrated  which  permits  ready  design  to 
other  frequencies. 

I.   INTRODUCTION 

The  need  for  passive  nonreciprocal  structures  has  long  been  recog- 
nized.^ In  the  microwave  field,  Hogan's  gyrator'  paved  the  way  for  an 
increasingly  important  class  of  such  devices.  The  isolator,  in  particular, 
has  emerged  as  one  of  the  more  useful  ferrite  components.  It  performs 
the  function,  as  its  name  implies,  of  isolating  the  generator  from  spurious 
mismatch  effects  of  the  load.  Unlike  lossy  pads,  which  consume  generator 
power,  the  isolater  provides  a  unidirectionally  low  loss  transmission 
path. 

A.  G.  Fox,  S.  E.  IMiller  and  M.  T.  Weiss''  have  pointed  out  that  non- 
reciprocal  ferrite  devices  may  exploit  any  of  the  following  waveguide 
effects : 

1.  Faraday  rotation 

2.  Gyromagnetic  resonance 

3.  Field  displacement 

4.  Nonreciprocal  phase  shift 

In  the  present  paper  we  shall  discuss  an  isolator,  based  upon  the  field 
displacement  effect,  which  was  developed  to  meet  the  following  require- 
ments for  a  proposed  microwave  relay  system  (5,925-6,425  mc/sec): 
1 .  Forward  loss  0.2  db 

877 


878 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


2.  Reverse  loss  20  db 

3.  Return  loss  30  db 
The   field   displacement   isolator  employs  an   ordinary   rectangular  | 

waveguide  and  requires  no  specialized  adaptation  to  the  rest  of  the 
guide  system.  It  is  relatively  compact  and  does  not  require  excessive 
magnetic  fields.  In  contrast  to  the  field  displacement  structure  of  Ref- 
erence 3,  in  which  a  symmetrically  disposed  pair  of  ferrite  slabs  is  used, 
the  present  unit  (see  Fig.  1)  contains  only  a  single  slab.  Other  differences 
of  a  more  substantial  nature  may  be  noted  —  in  the  present  case  the 
slab  is  displaced  from  the  guide  wall,  it  occupies  a  partial  height  of  the 
waveguide,  and  it  employs  a  novel  disposition  of  the  absorption  material 
on  one  face.  These  features  result  in  a  broadband  device. 

In  the  analysis  presented  in  this  paper  the  isolator  field  characteristics 
for  a  full  height  slab  are  determined  by  exact  solution  of  Maxwell's 
equations,  as  opposed  to  the  "point-field"  perturbation  approximation 
used  in  Reference  3.  An  exact  solution  of  the  partial  height  geometry  of 
the  experimental  device  would  be  exceedingly  difficult  to  obtain.  How- 
ever, such  a  solution  did  not  appear  to  be  essential  for  this  investigation 
since  good  correspondence  has  been  obtained  between  the  experimental 
results  and  the  idealized  full  height  slab  calculations. 

The  following  performance  of  the  isolator  was  obtained  from  5,925- 
6,425  mc/sec: 

1.  Forward  loss  --^  0.2  db 


PERMANENT 
MAGNET 


V/y/////y/^y>///////y///y///////////y'////y^A 


._FERRITE 


^  RESISTANCE 
I       ""COATING 

L- 


'////////////////////////////////////////y'yy//A 


h  =  0.550  IN. 
^■  =  0.  180  IN. 
b  =  0.074  IN. 
L=  1.590  IN. 
3  =  0.795  IN. 


T 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

S 

I 


Fig.  1  —  Field  displacement  isolator. 


THE   FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR  879 

2.  Reverse  loss  ^  30  db 

3.  Return  loss  ^^  30  db 

The  extremely  low  forward  loss  strongly  suggested  the  existence  of  an 
electric  field  null  in  the  plane  of  the  resistance  material.  Consequently, 
a  theoretical  investigation  of  the  null  condition  was  made  and  a  set  of 
criteria  estal)lished  for  the  existence  and  utilization  of  the  null.  (E.  H. 
Turner^  independently  developed  the  same  null  conditions.)  An  exten- 
sion of  the  analysis  leads  directly  to  a  set  of  scaling  laws  which  permits 
the  ready  design  of  isolators  of  comparable  performance  at  other  fre- 
quency bands. 

i   II.    DESCRIPTION    OF    OPERATION 

I 

In  Section  IIA  we  will  show  how  the  "point-field"  approach^  is  used 
to  predict  the  ciualitative  behavior  of  the  structure  and  in  Section  IIB 
we  will  apply  a  more  rigorous  analysis  to  the  determination  of  the  op- 
timum design  parameters. 

.1.  Qualitative 

Prior  to  introducing  the  actual  isolator  configuration,  we  shall  re- 
^'iew  some  elementary  properties  both  of  the  ferrite  medium  and  of  an 
unloaded  rectangular  waveguide.  It  is  in  terms  of  these  properties  that 
we  can  understand,  in  a  qualitative  sense,  the  interaction  of  an  rf  wave 
with  a  ferrite  in  such  a  waveguide.  Since  the  behavior  of  a  ferrite  medium 
in  the  presence  of  a  static  magnetic  field  and  a  small  rf  field  has  been 
discussed  in  the  literature^  the  following  resume  is  not  intended  to  be 
detailed.  It  is  presented,  however,  to  maintain  continuity. 

If  a  static  magnetic  field  is  applied  to  a  ferrite  medium  the  unpaired 
electron  spins,  on  the  average,  will  line  up  with  the  field.  If  now  an  rf 
magnetic  field,  transverse  to  the  dc  field,  excites  the  spin  system  these 

1  electrons  will  precess,  in  a  preferential  sense,  about  the  static  field.  The 
precession  gives  rise  to  components  of  transverse  permeability  at  right 

{  angles  to  the  rf  magnetic  field,  leading  to  a  tensor  characterization  of 
the  medium.  This  tensor  has  been  given  by  Polder^  and  may  be  diag- 
onalized  in  terms  of  circularly  polarized  wave  components.  Correspond- 

,  ing  to  the  appropriate  sense  of  polarization  we  use  the  designation  -|- 

'  and  — .  When  the  polarization  is  in  the  same  sense  as  the  natural  pre- 
cessional  motion  of  the  spin  system,  gyromagnetic  resonance  occurs  for 
an  appropriate  value  of  the  static  magnetic  field.  The  scalar  permea- 
bilities /i_  and  M+  are  shown  in  Fig.  2  as  functions  of  the  internal  static 
magnetic  field  as  would  be  observed  at  an  arbitrary  frequency. 


880 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


o 


u~           1 

r                1 

t               i 

^^X^+           / 

Hres 

Hi 


Fig.  2  —  Permeability  versus  magnetic  field. 

Clearly,  in  employing  a  ferrite  medium,  we  intend  to  use  the  basic  dif- 
ference between  the  scalar  permeabilities  ix^  and  /i_  .  To  this  end  we  may 
exploit  the  fact  that  the  magnetic  field  configuration  at  any  given  point 
in  a  rectangular  waveguide  is,  in  general,  elliptically  polarized.  Travel- 
ing loops  of  magnetic  intensity  appear  in  Fig.  3  for  the  fundamental 
(TEio)  mode.  At  point  P  an  observer  sees  a  counterclockwise  elliptically 
polarized  magnetic  intensity  if  the  wave  is  traveling  in  the  (+y)  direc- 
tion.* The  propagating  wave  may  be  decomposed  into  two  oppositely 
rotating  circularly  polarized  waves  of  different  amplitudes: 


+  O 


For  propagation  in  the  (  — y)  direction  the  rj  polarization  is  reversed: 


+  O 


Let  us  now  consider  the  actual  experimental  configuration  shown  in 
Fig.  4  (the  partial  height  geometry  was  chosen  on  an  experimental  basis, 
in  that  it  gave  VSWR  considerably  less  than  that  for  a  full  height  ferrite 
slab).  The  precession  of  the  spin  magnetic  moments  is  counterclockwise 

*  It  is  evident  that  a  point  converse  to  P  exists  symmetrically  to  the  right  of 
center.  This  is  utilized  in  a  double  slab  isolator  which  has  been  investigated  by    fi 
S.  Weisbaum  and  H.  Boyet,  I.R.E.,  44,  p.  554,  April,  1956.  ' 


THE   FIELD    DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR 


881 


looking  along  the  direction  of  the  dc  magnetic  field  shown  in  Fig.  4. 
Since  the  major  component  of  circular  polarization  for  (+?/)  propagation 
is  also  counterclockwise  the  permeability  will  be  less  than  unity  for  this 
direction  of  propagation.  This  occurs  provided  we  are  using  small  static 
fields,  as  is  readily  verified  from  Fig.  2.  The  permeability  will  be  greater 
than  unity  for  (  —  y)  propagation.  Physically,  this  is  equivalent  to  energy 
being  crowded  out  of  the  ferrite  for  (  +  ^)  propagation  and  to  energy 
being  crowded  in,  in  the  reverse  direction.  The  electric  field  will  thus  be 
distorted  as  shown  in  a  qualitative  way  in  Fig.  5.  The  vertical  dimen- 
sion in  this  figure  serves  both  to  identify  the  guide  configuration  and  to 
provide  an  ordinate  for  the  electric  field  intensity. 

The  fields  as  shown  in  Fig.  5  merely  represent  a  (iualitative  picture  of 
the  distributions  in  the  guide  and  are  not  intended  to  be  exact.  There  is 
no  question,  however,  that  the  electric  fields  at  the  ferrite  face  are  dif- 


Fig.  3  —  Magnetic  field  configuration  —  Dominant  TEjo  mode. 

Hoc 


FERRITE 
ELEMENT 


^,w/^////j/y/////Ay/yyy^//^^^////^^^^^^^^^^^y/-'/w////y'^. 


RESISTANCE    STRIP 


;^/////,v.vy/yy/-^^^/'y/yy^/V////'-^y^yy^vAvyyyy^^/yy/////-^////^^ 


-4<-d-A 


, 1_ 


Fig.  4  —  Experimental  configuration. 


882 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    195G 


FERRITE-K- 


Fig.  5  —  Electric  field  distortion. 

ferent  in  magnitude  corresponding  to  the  two  directions  of  propagation. 
Hence,  if  resistance  material  is  placed  at  the  interior  face  of  the  ferrite 
(see  Fig.  1)  we  may  expect  to  absorb  more  energy  in  one  direction  of 
propagation. 


B.  Analysis  of  Electric  Field  Null:-Full  Height  Ferrite 

The  description  we  have  given  in  Section  IIA  is  based  on  a  perturba- 
tion approach  and  does  not  take  into  account  the  higher  order  interac- 
tion effects  of  the  ferrite  and  the  propagating  wave.  In  this  section  we 
consider  an  analysis  of  the  idealized  case,  namely  that  of  a  full  height 
ferrite  slab,  and  impose  the  condition  of  an  electric  field  null  at  the  face 
of  the  ferrite  for  the  forward  direction  of  propagation.  While  this  too 
does  not  represent  the  true  experimental  situation,  we  believe  it  to  be  a 
better  approximation  than  the  "point-field"  perturbation  viewpoint. 

The  fields  of  the  various  regions  shown  in  Fig.  6  are  described  as 
follows : 


E^ 


(1) 


sm  a]X 


E,^'^  =  Ae-'"''''  -^  5e'"^"'     where     x    =  x 
^,"^  =  V  sin  aix"     where     x"  =  x  -  L 


a 


(II -1) 


where 

aj  =  transverse  wave  number  in  the  j*'^  region 
a  =  transverse  dimension  from  narrow  wall  to  ferrite  face 
L  =  broad  waveguide  dimension 
X  =  variable  dimension  along  broad  face 
z  =  height  variable 
A,  B,  V  =  constants 
Setting  up  the  wave  equation,  there  results 


THE   FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR 


883 


2  7^2 

a2    =  K 


tr    /      2 
—  iMr 


kr') 


+  ai" 


(II -2) 


where  nr  and  /iv  are  the  relative  diagonal  and  off-diagonal  terms  of  the 
Polder  tensor,  respectively,  K  is  the  free  space  wave  number  and  £r  is 
the  relative  dielectric  constant. 


Mr  =  1  + 


4:7rMsyo}o 


kr    =    ± 


4:irMsyo} 


7  =  2.8  X  10^  cycles/sec/oersted 
4iTrMs  =  saturation  magnetization  in  gauss 
Ho  =  static  magnetization  in  oersteds 
COo  =  yHo 
27r 
X 


K  = 


The   following   transcendental   equation   results   from   satisfying   the 
boundary  conditions  on  E  and  H:^ 

(II -3) 


tan  aia\jjLT(X2  +  kr^  tan  a28]  +  (/Mr    —  kr) ai  tan  a2B       tan  ai6 


+ 


=  0 


Oil 


(|3^  —  K'HrSr)  tan  aia  tan  q:25  +  ai(ju,Q;2  —  Av/3  tan  aaS) 

where  /3  is  the  propagation  constant. 

The  minimum  nontrivial  value  of  an  causing  a  null  to  appear  at  the 
ferrite  face  is  ai  =  t/g.  Placing  this  value  in  (II  • — •  3)  produces  the  fol- 
lowing transcendental  equation  for  the  null: 


TT   /      2 


a 


(jur    —  kr)  tan  a28 


UrOCi  —  kr^  tan  a28 


-j-  tan  aih  =0 


(II -4) 


y///////////////^//////////////////////"  "// 


•••  •;    ' 


>v2v; 


^////y/////yy/////y//////////w/vy//'/////,v/>'>///>/^////y/'^ 


=. a 


.4..4.-b-J 


Fig.  6  —  Full  height  geometry. 


884       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

where  h  =  L-a-8.  Equation  (II  —  4)  demonstrates  that  the  null  condi- 
tion is  nonreciprocal  since,  in  general,  the  solutions  differ  for  Av  positive 
and  kr  negative.  The  quantity  Av  has  the  same  sign  as  the  direction  of 
the  dc  magnetic  field;  reversing  the  sign  of  Av  is  equivalent  to  reversing  \ 
the  direction  of  propagation. 

A  numerical  analysis  of  etiuation  (II  • —  4)  has  led  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  null  condition  is  most  broadband  when  |  /x^  |  <  |  Av  |.*  We  use 
the  criterion  \  Hr\  =  [  A\  |  to  determine  a  critical  magnetic  field: 

Hc  =  --^tM8  (11  —  5) 

7 

Clearly  we  require  co/7  >  AttIMs  for  physically  realizable  solutions.  The 
saturation  magnetization   (47rM's)   is  subject  to  the  following: 

1 .  A  choice  of  too  large  a  4^ttMs  might  create  a  mode  problem  and  in 
addition  will  not  satisfy  the  limit  on  AtvMs  implied  in  (II  —  5). 

2.  4xil/s  must  be  sufficiently  large  so  that  the  field  needed  to  make 
I  jUr  I  <  I  Av  I  not  be  excessive. 

3.  y\/H(H  +  4:tM)  (this  being  the  slab  resonance  frequency  for 
small  slab  thickness^)  must  be  sufficiently  far  from  the  operating  fre- 
quency to  avoid  loss  due  to  resonance  absorption.  In  addition,  this  con- 
dition improves  the  frequency  insensitivity  of  the  null. 

Further  analytic  considerations  are  presented  in  Section  IV. 

III.    EXPERIMENTAL  DESIGN  CONSIDERATIONS 

Aside  from  the  partial  height  nature  of  the  slab,  there  are  two  other 
basic  factors  in  the  experimental  situation  which  are  not  present  in  the 
analysis  of  Section  IIB  (see  also  Section  IV).  First,  the  ferrite  has  both 
finite  dielectric  and  magnetic  loss.  Second,  higher  order  modes  may  be 
present.  These  deviations  from  the  simplified  analysis  are  by  no  means 
trivial  and  it  would  not  be  surprising  if  one  found  a  considerable  modifi- 
cation of  the  analytic  results.  As  it  turns  out,  there  are  broad  areas  of 
general  agreement  between  the  theoretical  and  experimental  results 
and  in  no  case  examined  here  does  one  find  a  basic  inconsistency.  In 
considering  the  various  parameters  which  must  be  adjusted  to  optimize 
the  broadband  performance  of  the  isolator  we  will  point  out,  where 
possible,  how  the  theoretical  results  are  modified  by  the  factors  men- 
tioned above.  The  parameters  of  interest  are: 


*  This  is  partially  evident  from  eciuation  II  —  4.  The  quantity  fj.r  \  must  be 
less  than  |  A;,  |  if  the  angle  (aib)  is  to  be  small  and  in  the  first  quadrant.  Second 
quadrant  solutions  cause  the  guide  cross  section  to  be  excessively  large,  with 
attendant  higher  mode  complication. 


I 


THE    FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR  885 

A.  The  saturation  magnetization  {4:TrMs)  and  the  applied  magnetic 
field  (Hnc). 

B.  The  ferrite  height. 

C.  The  thickness  (5)  of  the  ferrite  and  its  distance  (b)  from  the  nearest 
side  wall. 

D.  The  placement  of  the  resistance  material  and  its  resistivity  (p). 

E.  The  length  of  the  ferrite  (^). 

A.  4:TrMs  and  Hoc 

Theoretically,  minimum  forward  loss  occurs  with  a  true  null  at  the 
face  of  the  loss  film  and  has  been  given  in  the  condition  \  fXr\  <  \  kr\. 
Although  this  inequality  is  required  in  the  full  height  slab  analysis, 
lexperiment  (Fig.  7)  indicates  the  low  loss  region  to  be  so  broad  as  to 
extend  well  into  the  low  field,  or  |  /Ur  |  >  \K\  region. 

There  is  inherent  loss  in  the  ferrite  so  that  a  more  accurate  statement 
of  the  bandwidth  of  operation  is  that  in  which  the  losses  in  the  film  are 
of  equal  order  to  the  ferrite  losses  at  the  band  edges.  Even  discounting 
ferrite  losses,  it  will  be  shown  in  Section  IV  that  we  have  a  good  analytic 
basis  for  the  observed  broadness  of  the  low  loss  region.  In  general,  there- 
fore, we  need  not  be  as  restrictive  as  the  null  analysis  of  Section  JIB 
would  imply.  It  is  not  surprising  then  that  optimum  operation  actually 
occurs  in  the  region  |  /x^  |  >  \  kr\.  There  are  several  reasons  why  this  may 
be  so: 

1.  Shift  of  operation  occurs  due  to  the  partial  height  nature  of  the 
ferrite  slab. 

2.  Reverse  loss  has  a  peak  in  the  low  field  region,  requiring  a  compro- 
mise of  low  forward  loss  and  high  reverse  loss  for  best  isolation  ratios 
(see  Fig.  8). 

3.  Optimum  compromise  between  low  ferrite  loss  and  low  film  loss 
must  be  made. 

The  internal  magnetic  field,  determining  |  ju^  |  and  |  Av  |,  differs  from 
the  applied  field  by  the  demagnetization  of  the  ferrite  slab.  Although  not 
ellipsoidal,  it  may  nonetheless  be  considered  to  have  an  average  demag- 
netization which  has  been  computed,  for  this  case,  to  be  460  oersteds. 
A  further  complication  in  knowledge  of  the  internal  field  is  the  proximity 
effect  of  the  pole  pieces.  This  latter  correction  was  obtained  experi- 
mentally and,  all  in  all,  it  was  determined  that  the  internal  field  for 
optimum  operation  was  of  the  order  of  300  oersteds.  For  the  given 
ferrite  and  the  I'ange  of  frequency  of  operation,  this  internal  field  corres- 
ponds to  the  condition  that  \  ij.,-  \  >  |  Av  |,  as  stated  above. 

Taking  all  effects  into  account,  it  was  found  that  optimum  permanent 
magnet  design  occurred  for  an  air  gap  field  of  660  oersteds. 


886 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


_i 

LLI 
CO 

o 

UJ 

Q 


tf) 
O 

_l 

Q 

a. 
< 

cr 
O 
u. 


ferrite:  R) 

4;rMs=t700  GAUSS 
6r=0.160  IN. 
h  =  0.550  IN. 
1  =  5.000  IN. 

1 

1 
1 

AT    5925    MC    PER    SECy 

f 

/ 

/ 

AT    6425    MC    PER    SEC 

A 

/ 

/ 

^    ^*w                  660    OERSTEDS     _^            , 

y^ 

0.4         0.8  1.2  1.6         2.0         2.4        2.8 

MAGNETIZING    CURRENT    IN    AMPERES 


3.2 


3.6 


Fig.  7  —  Forward  loss  versus  magnetizing  current. 

Using  the  experimental  values  4:tMs  —  1,700  gauss  and  internal  mag- 
netic field  =  300  oersteds,  the  frequency  at  which  ferromagnetic  reso- 
nance occurs  was  estimated  to  be  about  2200  mc/sec.  This  value  is  suf-ii 
ficiently  far  from  our  operating  range  (5,925-6,425  mc/sec)  that  we| 
would  expect  a  negligible  loss  contribution  due  to  resonance  absorption.}, 
This  is  confirmed  by  the  low  forward  loss  actually  observed. 


B.  Ferrite  Height 

We  have  already  pointed  out  that  when  the  ferrite  height  is  reduced 
from  full  height  a  more  reasonable  VSWR  is  obtained.  This  is  due  to  the 
fact  that  we  have  relieved  the  stringent  boundary  requirements  at  the 


60 


^  50 

LU 
O 

UJ  40 


if!  30 

(/) 

o 

_J 

UJ  20 
CO 
CC 
UJ 

> 

yj  10 


(^ 

k. 

660 

OERSTEDS 

^— -< 

AT    6425    MC    PER    SEC 

7 

Fl 

N 

\, 

/ 

l\ 

1      > 

^_  __ 

N 

k 

AT    5925    MC    PER    SEcS; 

^.. 

V 

0.4        0.8  1.2  1.6         2.0         2.4        2.8        3.2        3.6 

MAGNETIZING    CURRENT    IN    AMPERES 


Fig.  8  —  Reverse  loss  versus  magnetizing  current. 


THE   FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR 


887 


top  and  bottom  faces  of  the  ferrite  and  approach,  in  a  sense,  a  less  critical 
rod  type  geometry.  A  ferrite  height  of  0.550"  gave  a  VSWR  -^  1.05 
(iver  the  band.  With  full  height  slabs  (0.795"),  A^SWR  values  as  high 
as  10:1  have  been  observed  for  typical  geometries. 


I  j     C.  8  and  h 

Experimentally,  we  have  examined  various  ferrite  thicknesses  at  dif- 
ferent distances  from  the  sidewall  until  optimum  broadband  performance 
.  jwas  obtained.  Table  I  shows  the  ferrite  distance  from  the  wall  which 
•  I  gave  the  best  experimental  results  (highest  broadband  ratios,  low  for- 
,ward  loss,  high  reverse  loss)  for  each  thickness  8  of  one  of  the  BTL 

I  materials.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  empirical  ctuantity  8  -\-  6/2  — 

I 

Table  I 


5  (mils) 

b  (mils) 

s  +  1  (mils) 

t  (mils) 

S  +  ~2t  (mils) 

201 

11 

206.5 

3 

200.5 

189 

35 

206.5 

3 

200.5 

186 

42 

207.0 

3 

201.0 

176 

65 

208.5 

3 

202.5 

189 

42 

210.0 

6 

198.0 

2t,  where  t  is  the  thickness  of  the  resistive  coating,  is  very  nearly  con- 
stant (within  a  few  mils)  for  the  stated  range  of  8  and  for  this  type  of 

[design.* 

i     In  Section  IV  a  theoretical  calculation  using  the  null  condition  at 

i  6175  mc/sec  for  a  full  height  ferrite  gives 

5    =   180  mils 

b   =  38.7  mils 

so  that  8  -f  b/2  =  199.3  mils.  In  the  theoretical  case  t  is  assumed  to  be 
very  small.  It  will  be  noted  that  the  theoretical  result  for  8  +  b/2  (with 
small  t)  agrees  quite  well  with  the  experimental  5  -f  6/2  —  2t.  The  ques- 
tion of  the  possible  phj^sical  significance  of  this  quantity  is  being 
investigated. 

D.  Placement  of  Resistance  Material  and  Choice  of  Resistivity 
The  propagating  mode  with  a  full  height  ferrite  slab  is  of  a  TEo 
variety,  the  zero  subscript  indicating  that  no  variation  occurs  with  re- 

*  In  one  design  of  the  isolator  we  used  a  General  Ceramics  magnesium  manga- 
nese ferrite  with  5  =  0.180",  b  =  0.074"  and  t  =  0.009"  so  that  8  +  b/2  -  2t  =  199 
mils,  in  good  agreement  with  Table  I. 


888 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


Fig.  9  —  Distribution  of  jsmall  tangential  electric  fields  at  interior   ferrite  faceJ 


Fig.  10  —  Resistance  configuration. 


spect  to  height.  A  field  null  in  this  construction  therefore  extends  across 
the  entire  face  of  the  full  height  ferrite  and  all  of  this  face  is  then  "active" 
in  the  construction  of  an  isolator.  This  field  situation  no  longer  accurately; 
applies  to  the  partial  height  slab.  The  departure  of  the  ferrite  from  the 
top  wall  creates  large  fringing  fields  extending  from  the  ferrite  edges,  and 
large  electric  fields  may  exist  tangential  to  the  ferrite  face  close  to  these 
edges.  We  would  therefore  expect  the  null  condition  to  persist  only  in  a 
small  region  about  the  vertical  center  of  the  ferrite  face.  We  may,  how- 
ever, also  expect  longitudinally  fringing  modes  (TM-like)  to  be  scattered! 
at  the  input  edge  of  the  ferrite  slab  so  that  a  longitudinal  field  maximum 
will  exist  at  the  central  region  of  the  ferrite.  However,  this  is  a  higher: 
mode,  so  that  this  maximum  decays  rapidly  past  the  leading  edge. 

Considering  all  the  effects,  the  distribution  of  small  tangential  electric 
fields  at  the  ferrite  face  may  be  expected  to  appear  as  shown  in  Fig.  9. 
Experimentally,  we  have  utilized  this  low  loss  region  and  have  avoided 
the  decay  region  of  the  higher  TM-like  modes  by  using  the  resistance 
configuration  shown  in  Fig.  10.  The  resistivity  is  uniform  and  about  75 


POLYSTYRENE- 


COPPER     PLATE 


RESISTANCE  STRIP 
FERRITE 


V/M///////^^^^J/^^^.';^/^J^^//^/////^^^^?^??j//?^/^9r»'/ 


m 


Fig.  11  — Elimination  of  longitudinal  components. 


THE    FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR 


889 


30 


25 


20 


15 


10 


FREQ 

H 

=  6425  MC 

=  1150  OERSTEDS 

477Ms=  1700   GAUSS 
d=  0.180  IN. 
h=  0.550  IN. 
1=5.000  IN.              / 

A 

k 

/ 

s 

\, 

/ 

V 

• 

^^ 

■-— < 

> 

y 

/ 

C 

/ 

0.5  1.0  1.5         2.0         2.5        3.0         3.5        4.0 

LENGTH    OF    LOSS    FILM    IN    INCHES 


4.5 


5.0 


5.5 


Fig.  12  —  Attenuation  versus  length  of  resistance  strip. 


'ohms/square.  Variations  of  about  d=30  ohms/square  about  this  value 
result  in  little  deterioration  in  performance. 

Some  further  discussion  of  the  perturbed  dominant  mode  is  of  interest. 

jWe  may  think  of  the  height  reduction  as  primarily  a  dielectric  discon- 

itinuity  where  we  have  effectively  added  a  negative  electric  dipole  den- 

Isity  to  a  full  height  slab.  Since  this  addition  is  smaller  for  the  forward 

case  (where  there  was  initially  a  small  electric  field)  than  for  the  reverse 

case,  we  may  expect  the  longitudinal  components  to  be  smaller  for  the 

forward  propagating  mode.  The  other  type  of  longitudinal  electric  field, 


50 


-I  40 


O 
UJ 
O 

,  30 


If) 
if) 
O 

-■  20 

LU 
If) 

a. 

LU 

I   '0 


a.^__ 


REVERSE    LOSS 


FORWARD     LOSS 


.J^ 


0.5 


0.4 


0.3 


If) 
If) 
o 


0.2 


0.1 


Q 

a: 
< 

cc 
o 


5900        6000        6100        6200        6300        6400 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 

Fig.  13  —  Loss  versus  frequency. 


6500 


890 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


Fig.  14  —  Isolator  model. 

which  occurs  due  to  the  scattering  of  the  TM-Uke  lono;itudinal  modes, 
decays  rapidly  and  is  not  of  consequence  in  an  experiment  now  to  be 
described.  This  experiment  was  designed  to  demonstrate  the  nonre- 
ciprocal  nature  of  the  longitudinal  electric  fields  associated  with  the  dis- 
torted dominant  mode.  It  also  shows  that  the  existence  of  these  com- 
ponents is  significant  as  a  loss  mechanism  for  the  reverse  direction  of 
propagation  in  the  isolator.  The  geometry  employed  is  shown  in  Fig.  11. 
The  copper  plate  was  inserted  to  minimize  longitudinal  electric  field 
components,  and  we  may  therefore  expect  to  obtain  less  reverse  loss  than 
in  the  condition  of  its  absence.  The  result  of  this  experiment  was  that 
the  reverse  loss  decreased  from  about  25  db*  without  the  plate  to  18  db  | 
with  the  plate.  The  forward  loss  was  unaffected. 

E.  Determination  of  Length 

Given  a  dominant  mode  distribution  in  a  waveguide,  attenuation  will 
be  a  linear  function  of  length,  once  this  mode  has  been  established.  Con- 
sequently, one  would  expect  that  doubling  the  loss  film  length  would 
double  the  isolator  reverse  loss.  The  isolator  does  not  exhibit  this  be- 
havior, however,  as  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  12. 

This  occurrence  might  be  explained  by  the  appearance  of  still  another 
longitudinal  mode,  peculiar  in  form  to  gyromagnetic  media  alone,  which 
propagates  simultaneously  with  the  transverse  electric  mode,  and  is 
essentially  uncoupled  to  the  loss  material.  The  maximum  reverse  loss 


*  This  experiment  was  conducted  with  a  different  ferrite  than  that  employed  ini' 
the  eventual  design. 


THE   FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR  891 

thus  obtainable  is  limited  by  the  scattering  into  this  mode.  The  charac- 
ter of  these  singular  modes  will  be  discussed  in  a  subsequent  paper. 

Results 

The  performance  of  the  isolator  as  a  function  of  frequency  is  shown 
in  Fig.  13.  Fig.  14  shows  a  completed  model  of  the  isolator. 

IV.    FURTHER   ANALYSIS 

While  an  exact  characteristic  equation  is  obtainable  for  the  overall 
geometry  of  the  full  height  isolator,  including  the  lossy  film,  the  ex- 
pressions which  result  are  sufficiently  complex  to  be  all  but  impossible  to 
handle.  However,  if  the  resistance  film  is  chosen  to  have  small  conduc- 
tivity we  may  utilize  a  simple  perturbation  approach  in  which  the  field 
at  the  ferrite  face  is  assumed  to  be  unaffected  by  the  presence  of  the 
loss  film.  A  quantity  rj  may  then  be  defuied*  so  that 

.  =  LM  (IV- 1) 

For  small  conductance  values  ri  is  proportional  to  attenuation  to  first 
order  in  either  direction  of  propagation,  Er  ,  in  equation  (IV  ^ — ■  1),  is 
the  electric  field  adjacent  to  the  film  and  P  is  the  power  flowing  across 
the  guide  cross  section.  The  loss  in  the  ferrite  material  is  not  taken  into 
account  in  this  approximation,  but  it  would  naturally  have  a  deteriorat- 
ing effect  on  the  isolator  characteristics. 

The  ratio  of  the  values  of  77  corresponding  to  backward  and  forward 
direction  of  propagation  defines  the  isolation  ratio,  given  in  db/db,  for 
the  limit  of  very  small  conductivity. 

Fig.  15  shows  a  calculated  curve  of  the  forward  value  of  17  and  Fig. 
16  shows  the  backward  case.  The  isolation  ratio  shown  in  Fig.  17  dem- 
onstrates surprisingly  large  bandwidth  for  values  of  the  order  of  200 
db/db.  Fig.  18  portrays  propagation  characteritics  for  both  forward 
and  backward  power  flows  and  provides  the  interesting  observation,  in 
conjunction  with  Fig.  16,  that  peak  reverse  loss  occurs  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  X    =  \g  . 

Fig.  19  is  a  plot  of  ai  ,  the  transverse  wave  number,  over  the  fre- 
quency range.  The  flatness  of  the  forward  wave  number  means  that  the 
position  of  null  moves  very  little  with  frequency  across  the  band.  Hence 
the  lossless  transmission  in  the  forward  direction  is  broadband.  Since 
the  forward  and  backward  wave  numbers  have  such  radically  different 


See  Appendix 


892       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

0.6 

0.5 


0.4 


^f 


0.3 


0.2 


0.1 


I 


5800  5900  6000  6100  6200  6300  6400 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


6500 


Fig.  15  —  Relative  attenuation  —  forward  direction 

rates  of  variation,  a  simple  adjustment  of  parameters  may  be  made  to 
cause  the  forward  null  and  maximum  reverse  attentuation  to  appear 
at  the  same  frequency,  resulting  in  an  optimum  performance. 

The  occurrence  of  the  reverse  maximum  loss  in  the  region  of  X  =  Xj 
may  roughly  be  explained  as  follows.  As  the  transverse  air  wave  number 
decreases,  the  admittance  of  the  guide,  defined  on  a  power  flow  basis, 
increases.  The  electric  field  magnitude  distribution  must  therefore  gener- 
ally decrease  in  such  a  fashion  as  to  cause  the  overall  power  flow  to  re- 


600 

500 

400 

300 

200 

100 
0 

/^ 

^ 

s. 

/ 

N 

) 

f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

f 

^ 

X 

5600  5900  6000  6100  6200  6300  6400 

FREQUENCY    IN     MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


6500 


Fig.  16  —  Relative  attenuation  —  backward  direction 


THE    FIELD    DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR 


893 


lU 

5 



^ 

V 

2 

^ 

^ 

< 

o      ^ 

< 

cr       2 

g  10^ 

1- 

o 

J 

t- 

\. 

X. 

/ 

^v 

1 

^ 

/ 

/ 

<0 

2 

5 

/ 

/ 

/ 

2 
10 

v 

/ 

1 

5900      6000      6t00       6200      6300      6400 
FREQUENCY  IN  MEGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


6500 


Fig.  17  —  Ideal  isolation  characteristics. 


main  constant..  On  the  other  hand  as  the  transverse  air  wave  number 
decreases  through  real  vahies,  the  electric  field  adjacent  to  the  ferrite 
becomes  relatively  large.  At  X  =  X^  the  distribution  is  linear  with  rela- 
]\  tively  large  dissipation  at  the  ferrite  face.  As  the  transverse  air  wave 
number  increases  through  imaginary  values  the  distribution  becomes 
exponential  such  that  the  field  adjacent  to  the  ferrite  is  always  the  maxi- 
mum for  the  air  region  and  the  growth  of  the  field  at  the  face  of  the 
ferrite  would  not  seem  to  be  so  great  as  formerly.  One  would  therefore 
expect  a  maximum  reverse  loss  somewhere  in  the  region  X  =  Xy  . 

The  abo^^e  considerations  plus  the  transcendental  equation  for  the 
null  show  consistency  with  the  experimental  design  values  which  were: 

8  =  0.180" 
L  =  1.59 
47rilf  s  =  1 ,700  gauss 

Using  Hue  =  000  oersteds  in  the  calculation  we  obtain  the  spacing  from 
the  guide  wall  h  =  0.0387".  The  fact  that  we  used  600  oersteds  for  the 
full  height  slab  calculation  as  opposed  to  the  internal  field  of  300  oersteds 
found  experimentally  for  the  partial  height  slab  should  not  be  a  source  of 
confusion.  It  has  been  indicated  earlier  that  the  peak  reverse  loss  shifts 


894  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

1.4 


t.2 


1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


^^ 

^ 

BACKWARD 

PROPAGATION,^-^ 

^ 

^ 

- 

m 





'forward  PROPAGATION 

~""~" 

... 

5900 


6000  6100  6200  6300  6400 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


6500 


Fig.  18  —  Ferrite  isolator  characteristics. 


5800 


5900  6000  6100  6200  6300 

FREQUENCY    IN    MEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


64001 


Fig.  19  —  Transverse  characteristics  of  a  ferrite  isolator 


THE    FIELD   DISPLACEMENT   ISOLATOR  895 

with  ferrite  height  reduction.  It  is  not  inconsistent  therefore  to  choose 
600  oersteds  for  the  full  height  analysis  in  contrast  to  the  value  deter- 
mined from  the  experiment. 

V.    SCALING 

Once  the  optimum  set  of  parameters  has  been  decided  upon  for  a 
given  frequency  range  (e.g.,  5,925-6,425  mc/sec,  5  =  0.180",  b  =  0.074", 
(  =  5",  h  =  0.550",  4wMs  =  1,700  gauss,  Hoc  =  660  oersteds)  it  is  a 
simple  matter  to  scale  these  parameters  to  other  frecpency  ranges.  From 
Maxwell's  equations: 

Curl  H  =  icceE  +  gE 

Curl^  =  -iwT-H 

where  T  is  the  permeability  tensor,  and  g  is  the  conductivity  in  mhos/ 
meter.  The  first  of  Maxwell's  equations  suggest  that  frequency  scaling 
may  be  accomplished  by  permitting  both  the  curl  and  the  conductance 
to  grow  linearly  with  respect  to  frequency.  The  curl,  which  is  a  spatial 
derivati^'e  operator,  may  be  made  to  increase  appropriately  by  shrinking 
all  dimensions  by  a  1/co  factor,  which  will  keep  the  field  configuration 
the  same  in  the  new  scale. 

Having  imposed  this  condition  on  the  first  equation  we  must  satisfy 
the  second  of  Maxwell's  equations  by  causing  7"  to  remain  unchanged 
with  frequency.  T  is  a  tensor  given  as  follows  for  a  cartesian  coordinate 
system: 

(Hr  ikr    0\ 

-ikr     Mr       0  (V—  1) 

0         0     1/ 

for  a  magnetizing  field  in  the  z  direction.  The  components  may  be  ex- 
panded in  the  following  fashion: 


Mr    = 


4 


X 


^      ^  (V— 2) 


h  = 


CO 


m  -  ^ 


896       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

where  AtMs  is  the  saturation  magnetization  in  gauss  and  y  is  the  mag- 
netomechanical  ratio.  The  Polder  tensor  evidently  remains  unchanged 
if  Ms  and  H  are  both  scaled  directly  with  frequency. 

Since  the  field  distributions  are  assumed  unchanged  relative  to  the 
scale  shift,  normal  and  tangential  E  and  H  field  components  continue 
to  satisfy  the  appropriate  boundary  equalities  at  interfaces.  Then,  in- 
voking the  uniqueness  theorem,  the  guide  characteristics  are  only  as 
presumed  and  the  model  has  been  properly  scaled  as  a  function  of  fre- 
quency. 

The  scaling  equations  are: 


di 

=2 

C02 

d2 

gi 

= 

032 

92 

Ms, 

= 

CO2 

Ms, 

Ho)i 

= 

COl 

C02 

{Ho)2 

(V-3) 


where  d  is  any  linear  dimension. 

CONCLUSION 

An  isolator  with  low  forward  loss  and  high  reverse  loss  can  be  con- 
structed by  a  proper  choice  of  parameters.  Once  a  suitable  design  has 
been  reached  the  scaling  technique  can  be  used  to  reach  a  suitable  design 
for  other  frequencies. 

As  yet,  a  theoretical  analysis  of  this  problem  has  been  carried  out  only 
for  a  full  height  ferrite. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

We  would  like  to  thank  F.  J.  Sansalone  for  his  assistance  in  developing 
the  field  displacement  isolator.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  Miss  M.  J. 
Brannen  for  her  competent  handling  of  the  numerical  computations. 

APPENDIX 

It  is  desirable  to  establish  an  isolator  figure  of  merit.  A  simple  quan- 
tity characterizing  the  isolator  action  is  the  normalized  rate  of  power 


THE    FIELD    DISPLACEMENT    ISOLATOR 


897 


loss  in  the  resistive  strip,  for  an  idealized  ferrite,  in  the  low  conductive 
limit  of  such  a  strip.  Let 

12 


Er 


V  = 


where  77  is  the  appropriate  quantity,  Er  is  the  field  at  the  resistance,  and 
P  is  the  total  power  flow  across  the  guide  cross-section.  This  figure  of 
merit  is  related  to  the  rate  of  change  of  the  attenuation  constant  (A) 
with  respect  to  strip  conductance  in  the  following  manner: 

p  =  0.0434377/1  (db)(ohms)/cm 

where  h  is  the  fractional  height  of  the  loss  strip,  and  g  is  the  reciprocal 
of  the  surface  resistivity  in  ohms/square. 

The  total  power  flow  may  be  divided  into  integrations  of  the  Poynting 
vector  over  the  three  regions  of  the  guide  cross-section.  The  following 
results  are  obtained  normalized  to  Er  =  sin  aia: 

Region  1:  0  ^  a;  ^  a 


p  (1)  _ 
Region  2:  a  ^  x  ^  a  -\-  8 

(2)  /3        /  /Xr3 


^ 


2co/xo 


/  sin  2aia\ 

V  2^7 


/ ,  2    ,     ,  2n    ,         sin  2a28 


fXridi^  —  di)  —  -^  a2{2did^ 


+ 


1  —  cos  2a25 


y.r{2dd2)    +   ^   id,'   -   d,') 


Region  Z:  a  -\-  b  ■^  x  S  L 


p   (3)    _ 
^y        — 


/3 


2cJ)Uo 


h  - 


sin  2  a]b\  {d\  cos  aih  -\-  di  sin  a-^ 


where 
and 


2q;i 

d\  =  sin  aia 


sin  aj) 


do   = 


yird-l 


[{nr    —  kr)oci  cos  aitt  -f-  /cr/3  siu  aia] 


898 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1.  Tellegen,  B.  D.  H.,  Philips  Res.  Rep.,  3,  1948. 

2.  Hogan,  C.  L.,  B.S.T.J.  31,  1952. 

3.  Fox,  A.  G.,  Miller,  S.  E.,  and  Weiss,  M.  T.,  B.S.T.J.  34,  p.  5.,  Jan.  1955. 

4.  Turner,  E.  H,,  URSI  Michigan  Symposium  on  Electromagnetic  Theory,  June, 

1955. 

5.  Polder,  D.,  Phil.  Mag.,  40, 1949. 

6.  Lax,  B.,  Button,  K.  J.,  Roth,  L.  M.,  Tech  Memo  No.  49,  M.I.T.  Lincoln  Lab-' 

oratory,  Nov.  2,  1953. 

7.  Kittel,  C,  Phys.  Rev.,  73,  1948. 


Transmission  Loss  Due  to  Resonance 

of  Loosely-Coupled  Modes  in  a 

Multi-Mode  System 

By  A.  P.  KING  and  E.  A.  MARCATILI 

(Manuscript  received  Januarj'  17,  1956) 

In  a  multi-mode  transmission  system  the  presence  of  spurious  modes 
which  reso7iafe  in  a  closed  environment  can  produce  an  appreciable  loss  to 
the  principal  mode.  The  theory  for  the  evaluation  and  control  of  this  effect 
under  certain  conditions  has  been  derived  and  checked  experimentally  in 
the  particularly  interesting  case  of  a  TEoi  transmission  system,  where  mode 
conversion  to  TE02 ,  TE03  •  •  •  is  produced  by  tapered  junctions  between 
two  sizes  of  waveguide. 

INTRODUCTION 

In  a  transmission  system,  the  presence  of  a  region  which  supports 
one  or  more  spurious  modes  can  introduce  a  large  change  in  the  trans- 
mission loss  of  the  principal  mode  when  the  region  becomes  resonant  for 
one  of  the  spurious  modes.  This  phenomenon  can  occur  even  when  the 
mode  conversion  is  low  and  the  waveguide  increases  in  cross  section 
smoothly  to  a  region  which  supports  more  than  one  mode.  In  general, 
the  conditions  required  to  resonate  the  various  spurious  modes  are  not 
fulfilled  simultaneously  and,  in  consequence,  interaction  takes  place 
between  the  principal  mode  and  only  one  of  the  spurious  modes  for  each 
resonating  frequency.  Under  these  conditions  the  resonating  environ- 
ment can  be  visualized  as  made  of  only  two  coupled  transmission  lines, 
one  carrying  the  desirable  mode  and  the  other  the  spurious  one.  This 
simplification  makes  it  possible  to  calculate  the  transmission  loss  as  a 
function  of  (1)  the  coefficient  of  conversion  between  the  two  modes  and 
(2)  the  attenuation  of  the  modes  in  the  resonating  en\-ironment.  The 
theory  has  shown  good  agreement  with  the  measurement  of  transmission 
loss  of  the  TEoi  mode  in  a  pipe  wherein  a  portion  was  tapered  to  a  larger 
diameter  which  can  support  the  TE02  mode. 

899 


900 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


TRANSMISSION  LOSS  OF  A  WAVEGUIDE  WITH  A  SPURIOUS  MODE  RESONATING 
REGION 

Let  US  consider  a  single-mode  waveguide  connected  to  another  of 
different  cross-section  that  admits  two  modes.  Since  these  two  modes 
are  orthogonal,  the  junctions  may  be  considered  as  made  of  three  single- 
mode  lines  connected  together,  provided  we  define  the  elements  of  the 
scattering  matrix  properly.  The  three  modes,  or  lines  in  which  they 
travel,  are  indicated  by  the  subscripts  0,  1,  and  2,  as  shown  in  Fig.  1. 
If  ao ,  tti ,  Qi  and  6o ,  &i ,  ?>2  are  the  complex  amplitudes  of  the  electric 
field  of  the  incident  and  reflected  waves  respectively,  then 


"6o' 

ao 

6i 

=   [S] 

ai 

h. 

_«2_ 

where 

Too   Foi   ro2 
[S]  =     Toi   Tu    ri2  (1) 

_ro2  Flo  r22_ 

is  the  scattering  matrix.^ 

This  specific  type  of  change  of  cross  section  may  be  treated  as  a 
three-port  junction. 

Now,  if  a  length  /  of  a  two  mode  waveguide  is  terminated  sym- 
metrically at  both  ends  mth  a  single  mode  waveguide  (Fig.  2),  each 
joint  is  described  by  the  same  matrix  (1),  and  the  connecting  two  mode 
wave  guide  has  the  following  scattering  matrix: 


(10 


0 

e-'"' 

0 

0 

^-m 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

e 

0 

0 

^-ie. 

0 

in  which 

je,    =   y,(.    =    («i   +JiSl)f 
je2  =  72^  =    (a2  +  jS-^t, 

7i  and  72  are  the  propagation  constants  of  modes  1  and  2. 


•  N.  Marcuvitz,  Waveguide  Handbook,  10,  M.I.T.,  Rad.  Lab.  Series,  McGraw- 
Hill,  New  York,  1951,  pp.  107-8. 


TRANSMISSION  LOSS  DUE  TO  RESONANCE  OF  CONVERTED  MODES      901 


Matrices  1  and  1'  describe  the  system  completely  and  from  them,  the 
transmission  coefficient  results, 


ao 


—  1  oie 


rlze 


-jlBiA* 


1  + 


ri2 

1  22 

1     Too 

r* 

1  02 

r22 

o  ri2 


(2) 


[1  -  (r?2  -  TnT,,)e-'''^^'''Y  -  (rue"^''  +  r226-^''^)^ 


where 


A  =  1  + 


£02^ 

.roi/ 


-y(92-«i) 


A  *  is  the  complex  conjugate  of  A 
Toi*  is  the  complex  conjugate  of  Toi 
ro2*  is  the  complex  conjugate  of  ro2 
Furthermore,  let  us  make  the  following  simplifying  assumptions 

I 

|ro2 


/3=2 

|3=0  I^U, 


-,/l. 


00  =  0 

(3) 

«1 

(4) 

if        w  =  n  =  0,  1,  2 

(5) 

if        m  ^  n 

Equation  (3)  indicates  that  if  in  Fig.  1,  lines  1  and  2  were  matched, 
line  0  would  also  be  matched  looking  toward  the  junction.  Equation  (4) 
states  that  almost  all  the  transmission  is  made  from  0  to  1 ,  or  that  there 
is  small  mode  conversion  to  the  spurious  mode  2.  Equation  (5)  assumes 
that  the  transition  is  nondissipative.  The  first  two  conditions  are  ful- 
filled when  the  transition  is  made  smoothly.  The  last  is  probably  the 
most  stringent  one,  especially  if  the  transition  is  a  long  tapered  wave- 
guide section,  but  it  is  always  possible  to  imagine  the  transition  as 
lossless  and  attribute  its  dissipation  to  the  waveguides. 


0-  — 


- — bo  ^ — aa 


—2 


Fig.  1  —  Schematic  of  a  three-port  junction. 


902 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  195G 


From  (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5) 


V  = 


I  r,o  |2 


2|ri.2|2(l  -  cos  ^) 


1  + 


T22 


J«l12 


1  -  [rooe"' -  +  Tne"'''] 


(6) 


Avliere 

i  22  1  22       6 

(f  =   61  —  02  —  <pn  ~{~  <P 


22 


111  order  to  understand  this  expression  physically,  let  us  suppose  first 
that  there  is  no  attenuation.  The  transmission  coefl&cient  r  becomes  0 
when  the  following  equations  are  fulfilled  simultaneously 


and 


182^  —  <P22   =    PT 


(f  =  (2q  -\-  l)x 


p  =  0,  1,2,  3---     (7) 


5  =^  0,  1,2,  3  •••     (8) 


The  first  of  these  equations  states  that  the  line  carrying  the  feebly 
coupled  mode  must  be  at  resonance,  since  this  condition  is  satisfied  when 
the  electric  length  of  this  line  is  modified  by  a  multiple  of  tt  radians.  The 
second  condition,  (8),  implies  that  both  paths,  in  lines  1  and  2,  must 
differ  in  such  a  way  that  electromagnetic  waves  coming  through  them 
must  arrive  in  opposite  phase  at  the  end  of  the  two-mode  waveguide. 
This  is  quite  clear  if  we  think  that,  in  order  to  get  complete  reflection, 
signals  coming  through  lines  1  and  2  must  recombine  again  Avith  the 
same  intensity  and  opposite  phase.  In  order  to  get  both  modes  with  the 
same  intensity,  the  converted  mode  must  be  built  up  through  resonance; 
the  opposite  phase  is  obtained  by  an  appropriate  electric  length  adjust- 
ment. When  attenuation  is  present,  F  will  not  be  0,  and  conditions  (7) 
and  (8)  for  minimum  transmission  are  modified  only  slightly  if  the 


0-- 


ap — »  D,^-^  bp — » 

•* t)o  ^ 32 

*  —  l--- * 


Fig.  2  —  Schematic  of  a  two-mode  waveguide  terminated  symmetrical!}'  on 
each  side  with  a  single-mode  waveguide. 


TRANSMISSION  LOSS  DUE  TO  EESONANCE  OF  CONVERTED  MODES       903 


ATTENUATION    OF    SPURIOUS    MODE    IN    DECIBELS 


Fig.  3  — •  Relative  insertion  loss  as  a  function  of  the  spurious  mode  attenuation 
and  mode  conversion  level. 


attenuation  is  low,  but  the  general  interpretation  of  the  phenomenon  is 
still  the  one  given  above. 

From  (6)  we  can  calculate  the  extreme  values  of  |  r  |  differentiating 
with  respect  to  I,  and  we  define  the  relative  insertion  loss  I  in  db,  as  the 
ratio  between  the  minimum  and  maximum  transmitted  power  expressed 
in  db. 


7  =  20  log 


10 


i  min 

r 

■•■  max 


=  20  logio  ^ 


1 


2  1  ri2  Kl  +  cosh  at) 


1  -  c'  I  r 


22 


2   —2a'>t 


1    - 


2|ri2|2(l  -  cosha^) 


(9) 


l  +  B'\  r22  Ye 


2   — 2a2^ 


where 
E  =  1  + 


ri2 

•l  22 


-at 


C 


1    - 


ri2 

i  22 


-a( 


a  =  ai  —  a2 


For  the  most  important  practical  case,  that  is,  when  the  maximum  value 
attainable  by  cosh  aC  is  of  the  order  of  1,  and  knowing  from  (3),  (4)  and 
(5)  that 


12 


ro2  r  (1  -  I  ro2  p) 


r22 1'  ^  1  -  2  I  ro2 


904 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


7^201ogio(l  +  2lro2re""0 


(10) 


1  - 


2  I  ro2  Kl  +  cosh  ap  \ 

1  _  e-2"2^  +  2  I  ro2  I'd  +  e-"')e-'"''l 


From  this  expression  we  deduce 

(a),  /  is  strongly  reduced  when  a^C  »  ro2. 
^  (b),  Attenuation  in  line  1  is  not  an  important  factor  until  ail  and 
I  ck:i  —  a2 1  ^  ^re  of  the  order  of  1 .  In  other  words,  for  low  attenuation  in 
both  lines,  aot  assumes  a  major  importance  in  the  determination  of  I 
because  it  influences  the  conditions  of  resonance.  That  the  effect  of  ail 
is  small  is  shown  in  Fig.  3  (dotted  line  for  the  particular  case  ai  =  0:2/4). 

In  order  to  handle  the  general  problem,  (10)  has  been  plotted  in  Fig. 
3.  We  can  enter  with  any  two  and  obtain  the  third  following  quantities: 
Zi ,  relative  insertion  loss  in  db;  10  logio  e~^"^  ,  attenuation  in  db  of  the 
spurious  mode  in  the  resonating  environment;  and  20  logio  ro2  conversion 
level  at  the  junction,  in  db,  of  power  in  the  spurious  mode  relative  to 
that  in  the  first  line. 


APPLICATION    OF    THESE    RESULTS    TO    A    TEqi    TRANSMITTING    SYSTEM 

The  results  of  the  preceding  section  have  been  checked  experimentally 
by  measuring  the  relative  insertion  loss  of  different  lengths  of  %"  di- 
ameter round  waveguide  tapered  at  both  ends  to  round  waveguides  of 
J4.6"  diameter.  This  waveguide  is  shown  in  Fig.  4  with  a  schematic 
diagram  of  the  measuring  set.  In  the  round  transmission  line  A-B, 
section  A  will  propagate  only  TEoi .  Section  B,  which  has  been  expanded 
by  means  of  the  conical  taper  Ti ,  can  support  TE02  and  TE03  in  addition 
to  the  principal  TEoi  mode.  This  section  is  a  closed  region  to  the  spurious 
modes  ( TE02 ,  TE03)  whose  length  can  be  adjusted  to  resonate  each  one 
of  these  modes.  A  sliding  piston  provides  a  means  for  varying  the 
length,  /,  of  section  B. 


&^ 


T 


T 


X 


fl  e- 


./^ 


1 
2 


r~y 


TE 


01 


B 


TEo, 
TE02 
TE03 


1 


RECEIVER 


Fig.  4  —  Circuit  used  to  measure  TEoi  insertion  loss  due  to  resonance  of  the 
TE02  and  TE03  modes. 


TRANSMISSION  LOSS  DUE  TO  RESONANCE  OF  CONVERTED  MODES   905 

•lOr 


U° 


-12 
-14 
-16 
-16 
-20 
-22 
-24 
-26 
-28 


O     -30 
O 

^     -32 


-34 
-36 
-38 
-40 
-42 


-44 


■46 


-48 


-50 


\\ 

1 

; 

PtEo2      / 

PtEo3       ( 

\ 

\ 

hTEo,-|. 

t 
d 

\ 

\^ 

s. 

*- L 

\ 

\ 

k 

\ 

\ 

i 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

s 

\ 

\ 

k 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\      \ 
\      \ 
\      \ 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

s 

\       \^°' 

\ 

TEo\    \ 

<d-^ 

tl 

\ 

\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

rPni 

x 

\    '^ 

\ 

\ 

\TEo3 

\ 

\ 

JL"\ 
8       > 

\^ 

D  =  2" 

TEo) 

\ 

\ 

V     "7" 

7" 
\T6 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 

7 

k 

\ 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

k 

\TEo3 

ie 

\ 
\ 

V" 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

\ 
\ 
\ 

7"\ 
8 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

k 

d=*-^ 

V 

\ 

\          \ 

\      \ 

\                V 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\^       8 

\          \ 
\          \ 

\ 
\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

1 

1 

\ 
\ 

\ 

1 

1 

0.1 


0.2  0.3     0.4  0.6      0.8    1.0  2  3 

TAPER    LENGTH,   L,    IN    METERS 


5     6         8      10 


Fig.  5  —  Mode  conversion  of  TE02  and  TE03  relative  to  TEoi  generated  by  a 
conical  taper. 

The  relative  levels  of  TE02  and  TE03  conversions,  which  have  been 
calculated  from  unpublished  work  of  S.  P.  Morgan  are  shown  plotted  in 
Fig.  5  for  the  waveguide  sizes  employed  in  the  millimeter  wavelength 
band.  The  conversions,  20  logio  ro2 ,  are  plotted  in  terms  of  the  TE02 
and  TE03  powers  relative  to  the  TEoi  mode  power  and  are  expressed  in 
db  as  a  function  of  the  taper  length  L,  in  meters. 

Fig.  6  shows  the  theoretical  and  experimental  values  obtained  for 
TEoi  relative  insertion  loss.  Since  the  minimum  length  of  pipe  tested  is 


906 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOUENAL,    JULY    1956 


-102 
8 


UJ 

u 

UJ 

O 


to 
to 
o 


-10 


z 
o 


z 


> 

< 

_l 

cr 


-t 


TEo2 

ATTENUATION 

RELATIVE 
INSERTION 

- 

/ 

l(M)                (DB) 
0.37            -0.024 

1.135         -0.074 

2.39            -0.157 

3.73            -0.245 

LOSS  (DB) 
-6.0 

-3.2 

-  1.7 

-  1.3 

- 

EXPERIMENTAL  . 
DATA             ^ 

\ 

2 
3 

- 

- 

'N, 

^ 

^ 

V 

ro2=-27DB 

- 

N 

- 

X 

- 

1    N 

N 

- 

^ 

N 

\ 

2 

\ 

\, 

EORETICAL   VALUES 
lASURED    VALUES 

\ 

4 

o          ME 

- 

\ 

- 

s 

- 

, 

1 

1 

_L 

1 

1 

1 

_L 

1 

1 

1 

1 

\ 

I 

1 


-10" 


6       8-, 

-10   2 


-10 


■1 


ATTENUATION    OF    SPURIOUS    MODE    IN    DECIBELS 


Fig.  6  Theoretical  and  measured  relative  insertion  loss  in  the  TEoi  trans- 
mission system  of  Fig.  4. 

several  times  the  length  of  the  tapers,  the  losses  in  the  transitions  are 
fairly  small  compared  to  the  losses  in  the  multimode  guide  and  this 
justifies  assumption  (5).  The  resonance  due  to  the  other  modes  is  too 
small  to  be  appreciable.  This  is  understandable  since,  according  to  (10), 
the  value  of  the  mode  conversion  for  the  TE03  (Fig.  5)  and  the  attenua- 
tion for  the  shortest  length  of  pipe  tested,  the  calculated  relative  inser- 
tion loss  is  less  than  —0.1  db. 

CONCLUSIONS 

The  resonance  of  spurious  modes  in  a  closed  environment  can  produce 
a  large  insertion  loss  of  the  transmitting  mode.  In  a  fairly  narrow  band 
device  it  is  possible  to  avoid  this  problem  by  selecting  a  proper  wave- 
guide size  for  the  closed  environment.  In  a  broad-band  system  the  losses 
can  be  minimized  by  providing  a  high  attenuation  and  a  low  mode  con- 
version for  the  spurious  mode.  For  example,  it  may  be  noted,  by  refer- 
ring to  Fig.  3,  that  mode  conversion  as  high  as  —20  db  with  a  spurious 
mode  loss  of  —  8  db  results  in  only  an  —0.1  db  insertion  loss  for  the 
transmitting  mode. 


Measurement  of  Atmospheric  Attenuation 
at  Millimeter  Wavelengths 

By  A.  B.  CRAWFORD  and  D.  C.  HOGG 

(Manuscript  received  September  20,  1955) 

A  frequency -modulation  radar  technique  especially  suited  to  measure- 
ment of  atmospheric  attenuation  at  millimeter  wavelengths  is  described. 
This  two-way  transmission  method  employs  a  single  klystron,  a  single  an- 
tenna and  a  set  of  spaced  corner  reflectors  whose  relative  reflecting  properties 
are  known.  Since  the  method  does  not  depend  on  measurements  of  absolute 
antenna  gains  a7id  power  levels,  absorption  data  can  he  obtained  more 
readily  and  with  greater  accuracy  than  by  the  usual  one-way  transmission 
methods. 

Application  of  the  method  is  demonstrated  by  measurements  in  the  6 -mm 
to  6-mm  wave  band.  The  residts  have  made  it  possible  to  assign  an  accurate 
value  for  the  line-breadth  constant  of  oxygen  at  atmospheric  pressure;  the 
constant  appropriate  to  the  measurements  lies  between  600  and  800  MCS 
per  atmosphere. 

INTRODUCTION 

It  is  well  known  that  certain  bands  in  the  microwave  region  are  at- 
tenuated considerably  due  to  absorption  by  water  vapour  and  oxygen 
in  the  atmosphere.  A  theory  of  absorption  for  both  gases  was  given  by 
Van  Vleck.^  Numerous  measurements  have  been  made  on  the  gases  when 
confined  to  waveguides  or  cavities-  and  several  when  unconfined  in  the 
free  atmosphere.^  Nevertheless,  there  is  some  uncertainty  regarding  the 
line-breadth  constants  which  should  be  used  in  calculating  water  vapour 
and  oxygen  absorption.  In  particular,  at  atmospheric  pressure  there  is 
doubt  as  to  the  amount  of  absorption  on  the  skirts  of  the  bands  where 
the  absorption  is  small.  The  present  work  was  undertaken  to  test  a  new 
method  of  measurement  and  to  improve  the  accuracy  of  experimental 
data  measured  in  the  free  atmosphere. 

The  method  of  measurement  is  one  of  comparison  of  reflections  from 

907 


908  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 

spaced  corner  reflectors  whose  relative  reflecting  properties  are  known. 
The  free-space  attenuation  is  readily  calculated  and  any  measured  at- 
tenuation in  excess  of  this  represents  absorption  by  the  atmospheric 
gases. 

A  description  of  the  method  and  the  apparatus  is  followed  by  a  dis- 
cussion of  data  taken  in  the  wavelength  range  5.1  to  6.1  mm  (which  in- 
cludes the  long  wavelength  skirt  of  the  oxygen  absorption  band  centered 
at  5  mm).  These  data,  when  compared  with  the  theory,^  indicate  that 
the  line-broadening  constant  of  oxygen  at  atmospheric  pressure  is  of 
the  order  of  600  mc.  Some  rain  and  fog  attenuation  measurements  at  a 
wavelength  of  6.0  mm  are  included. 

METHOD 

The  experimental  setup  is  shown  in  Fig.  1.  It  consists  of  a  high-gain 
antenna  for  both  transmitting  and  receiving  and  a  pair  of  spaced  corner 
reflectors.  Corner  reflectors  can  be  built  to  have  good  mechanical  and 
electrical  stability,  and  their  reflecting  properties  are  relatively  insensi- 
tive to  slight  misalignments.  The  reflectors  are  mounted  well  above  the 
ground  to  ensure  free-space  propagation  conditions. 

At  the  outset,  the  relative  reflecting  properties  of  the  corner  reflectors 
are  measured  by  placing  them  side  by  side  at  a  convenient  distance  (cfi 
for  example)  from  the  antenna.  By  alternately  covering  one  and  the  other 
with  absorbent  non-reflecting  material  and  measuring  the  reflected  sig- 
nals, the  relative  effective  areas  are  determined.  The  reflectors  are  then 
separated  as  shown  and  consecutive  measurements  are  made  of  the  sig- 
nals returned  from  each  reflector.  From  these  measurements,  knowing  the 
distances  di  and  d^  and  the  calibration  of  the  reflectors,  one  determines 
the  attenuation  over  the  path  d2-di  in  excess  of  the  free-space  attenua- 
tion.* This  excess,  in  the  absence  of  condensed  water  in  the  air,  repre- 
sents absorption  by  the  atmosphere. 


The  power  received  from  the  reflector  at  distance  di  is, 


A' A,'' 

Pi  =  Pt  -tt^-  Q(K  dd 
X  di 

where  A  and  Ai  are  the  effective  areas  of  the  antenna  and  corner-reflector  respec- 
tively, and  Pr  is  the  transmitted  power;  Q(\,  d\)  is  a  loss  factor  which  accounts 
for  atmospheric  absorption.  A  similar  relation  holds  for  the  power  received  from 
the  reflector  at  distance  ^2  .  The  ratio  of  the  received  powers  is  then, 


'2  [aJ     \dj 


f^=  (t^)  It)  QlKid^"-  d.)\ 


ATMOSPHERIC   ATTENUATION   AT   MILLIMETER   WAVELENGTHS 


909 


The  accuracy  of  the  measurements  Avill  be  affected,  of  course,  by  spuri- 
ous refiections  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  corner-refiectors.  The  sites  for 
the  experiment  were  chosen  to  minimize  such  refiections  and  checks  were 
made  by  observing  the  decrease  in  the  return  signals  when  the  corner- 
refiectors  were  covered  by  absorbent  material.  In  all  cases,  the  back- 
ground reflections  were  at  least  30  db  below  the  signal  from  the  corner- 
reflector. 

The  method  of  measuring  the  reflected  signals  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  2. 
The  transmitted  signal  is  frequency  modulated  in  a  saw  tooth  manner 
with  a  small  total  frequency  excursion,  F.  The  signal  reflected  from  the 
near  corner-reflector  is  delayed  \ni\\  respect  to  the  transmitted  signal 
by  a  time,  n ,  equal  to  twice  the  distance  to  the  reflector  divided  by  the 
velocity  of  light.  During  a  portion,  Ti  —  rx ,  of  the  sa^^i:ooth  cycle,  there 
is  a  constant  frequency  difference,  /,  between  the  transmitted  and  re- 
ceived signals,  {f/F  =  ti/Ti).  Power  at  this  frequency  is  produced  by 
mixing  the  initial  source  signal  with  the  delayed  received  signal  and  am- 
plifying the  difference  frequency  in  a  narrow-band  amplifier  centered  at 
frequency  /.  The  output  of  this  amplifier  is,  therefore,  a  pulse  at  fre- 
quency /,  of  length  Ti  —  n  and  repetition  rate  1/Ti . 

To  measure  the  signal  returned  from  the  far  corner-reflector  it  is  neces- 
sary merely  to  increase  the  period  of  the  sawtooth  modulation  propor- 
tionate to  the  increase  in  distance.  The  frequency  excursion,  F,  re- 
mains the  same;  hence  the  average  power  output  of  the  transmitter  is 
unchanged.  As  may  be  seen  in  Fig.  2,  the  freciuency  difi"erence, /,  between 
the  transmitted  and  received  signals  is  unchanged;  thus  the  same  am- 
plifier and  output  meter  can  be  used  for  the  two  cases.  Another  advan- 
tage in  changing  only  the  sawtooth  repetition  rate  is  that  the  delay  is 
the  same  fraction  of  a  period  in  both  cases;  therefore  the  duty  cycle  is 
unchanged  and  the  intermediate  frequency  pulses  can  be  detected  by 
either  an  average  or  a  peak  measuring  device. 

Since  the  beat  frequency,  /,  is  not  affected  by  slow  changes  in  the  fre- 


ANTENNA 
EFFECTIVE    AREA 


CORNER    REFLECTOR 

R1 
EFFECTIVE    AREA   At 


SOURCE 


\>- 


-d,- 


HI 

_i_ 


CORNER    REFLECTOR 

R2 

EFFECTIVE    AREA    Ag 


Fig.  1  —  Siting  arrangement  for  the  atmospheric  absorption  measurements. 


910 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


qiiency  of  the  transmitter,  the  bandwidth  of  the  intermediate  frequenc}^ 
amplifier  need  be  only  wide  enough  to  take  care  of  non-linearity  in  the 
sawtooth  modulation.  A  signal-to-noiso  advantage  is  obtained  by  the 
use  of  the  narrow-band  amplifier. 

Table  I  gives  the  distances,  heights  and  effective  areas  of  the  reflectors 
as  well  as  the  sa^^iiooth  repetition  rates  that  were  used  in  the  experiment. 
The  frequency  excursion  of  the  sawtooth  modulation  was  5.8  mc. 

It  will  be  noted  that  three  reflectors  were  used;  this  was  done  to  pro- 
vide a  long  path  (comparison  of  reflections  from  Rl  and  7?3)  for  wave- 
lengths at  which  the  absorption  was  relatively  low,  and  a  short  path 
(comparison  of  Rl  and  R2)  for  wavelengths  at  which  the  absorption  was 
high.  The  small  reflector,  Rl,  was  one  foot  on  a  side;  the  large  reflectors, 
7?2  and  i?3,  were  about  5.6  feet  on  a  side.  Fig.  3  is  a  set  of  side-by-side 
measurements  sho^^ing  the  reflecting  properties  of  the  large  reflectors 
relative  to  the  small  one  for  the  wavelengths  at  which  they  were  used. 


J 


APPARATUS 

A  schematic  diagram  of  the  wa^•eguide  and  electronic  apparatus  is 
shown  in  Fig.  4;  Fig.  5  is  a  photograph  of  the  waveguide  eciuipment  so 
mounted  that  it  moves  as  a  unit  with  the  horn  antenna.  The  antenna  is 
adjusted  in  azimuth  and  elevation  by  means  of  the  milling  ^-ise  at  the 
bottom  of  the  photograph.  The  box  at  the  left  contains  the  transmitting 
tube,  a  low  voltage  reflex  klystron*  which  has  an  average  power  output 
of  about  12  milliwatts  over  its  5.1-  to  6.1-mm  tuning  range.  About  2  mil- 
liwatts of  the  klystron  output  is  fed  through  a  6-db  directional  coupler 
to  a  balanced  converter  that  contains  two  wafer-type  millimeter  rectifier 
units,  t  The  remainder  of  the  power  proceeds  into  a  3-db  coupler  which 


TRANSMITTED                     DELAYED 

SIGNAL                   RETURN    SIGNAL 

1                                          1 

'  1          ^/ 

-1       / 

/                        X 

>\            / 

A     ^ 

y^ 

-.^   1 

\      // 

1         1   /   / 

1       »x    / 

1    y  ^ 

1        // 

1           F 

^X- 

y 

y/ 

\  A/ 

// 

/'      ' 

y^ 

^-'f 

^ 

y' 

/  u 

/v 

f  1/ 

/v    ; 

^^"^ 

0^         1^' 

^--T,— - 

T\W 

TIME *■ 

< 

-T2  — - 

— > 

<72> 

% 


NEAR    REFLECTOR 


FAR    REFLECTOR 


Fig.  2  —  Transmitted  and  reflected  frequency-modulated  signals. 


*  This  klystron  was  developed  by  E.  D.  Reed,  Electron  Tube  Development 
Department,  Murray  Hill  Laboratory. 

t  These  millimeter-wave  rectifiers  were  developed  by  W.  M.  Sharpless,  Radio 
Research  Department,  at  the  Holmdel  Laboratory. 


ATMOSPHERIC   ATTENUATION   AT   MILLIMETER   WAVELENGTHS 


Table  I 


911 


Reflector 

Distance 

Height 

Effective  Area 
(Average) 

Sawtooth 
Rep.  Rate 

Intermediate 
Frequency-f 

Rl 
R2 
R3 

km 

di  =  0.59 
do  =  1.36 
ds  =  2.87 

m 

6.7 
21.5 
75 

«»2 

0.05 

0.67 
0.79 

kc 

33 

14.4 
6.8 

kc 

750 
750 
750 

has  the  antenna  on  one  arm  and  an  impedance  composed  of  an  adjustable 
attenuator  and  shorting  phniger  on  another  arm.  This  impedance  is  ad- 
justed to  balance  out  reflections  from  the  antenna  so  that  a  negligible 
amount  of  the  power  flowing  toward  the  antenna  enters  the  converter 
which  is  on  the  remaining  arm  of  the  coupler.  The  delayed  energy  that 
re-enters  the  antenna  after  reflection  from  a  corner  reflector  passes 
through  the  3-db  coupler  to  the  converter. 

The  intermediate  frequency  amplifier  shown  in  Fig.  4  operates  with  a 
bandwidth  of  300  kc  centered  at/=750  kc.  The  output  of  the  amplifier 
is  fed  to  a  sciuare  law  detector  and  meter  for  accurate  measurement  and 
to  an  oscilloscope  for  checking  operation  of  the  equipment.  Oscillograms 
of  the  pulses  obtained  from  the  three  corner  reflectors  are  shown  in  Fig.  6; 
these  are  all  on  the  same  time  scale.  The  gap  between  the  pulses  is  the 
delay,  r,  shown  schematically  in  Fig.  2. 

12.6 


12.4 


IXJ 

o 

LU 
Q 

z 
< 

LU 

< 


12.2 


12.0 


11.8 


u 

LU 


< 

CC 


1.5 


11.4 


1.2 


11.0 


\ 

A?      A, 

"-— ^,    — ^   THEORETICAL 

A,       A, 

< 

<^ 

y 

\ 

1 

1 

Y 

A3                  \ 

-r^   MEASURED^ 

A, 

\, 

s 

J. 

b 

K 

/- 

/^-  MEASURED 

r      A, 

\ 

V 

5.1  5.2  5.3  5.4  5.5  5.6  5.7  5.8  5.9  6.0  6.1 

WAVELENGTH,    \,  IN     MILLIMETERS 


Fig.  3  —  Calibration  of  corner-reflectors  R2  and  R3  using  Rl  as  a  standard. 


912  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


SAWTOOTH 
GENERATOR 


SYNC 


OSCILLOSCOPE 


^ 


r 


DETECTOR 


AMPLIFIER 
f =  750  KC 


PRECISION 
ATTENUATOR 


BALANCED    TO 

UNBALANCED 

TRANSFORMER 


HYBRID  . 
JUNCTION 


[> 


\ 


-0 


BALANCED 
CONVERTER 


X 


REED 
KLYSTRON 


6DB 
COUPLER 


RECORDER 


METER 


ADJUSTABLE 
SHORT 


X 


3  DB 
COUPLER 


ANTENNA 


Fig.  4  —  Schematic  diagram  of  frequency-modulation  radar. 


Fig.  5  —  Waveguide  apparatus  and  antenna. 


' 


ATMOSPHERIC    ATTENUATION    AT   MILLIMETER   WAVELENGTHS 


913 


^^-  W^  -^W  S 

:  li  Wi  W^-  WmWai  'i^ 


Rl 


R3 


Fig.  6  —  750-kc  pulses  corresponding  to  the  data  in  Table  I. 

Fig.  7  shows  the  conical  horn-lens  antenna  supported  by  two  bearings 
to  allow  adjustment  of  azimuth  and  elevation  angles.  The  aperture  of 
the  antenna  is  fitted  with  a  polyethylene  lens  30  inches  in  diameter.  The 
antenna  has  a  gain  of  about  51  db  and  a  beam  width  of  about  0.5  degrees 
in  the  middle  of  the  5-  to  6-mm  wave  band.  This  narrow  beam,  together 
wath  well-elevated  reflectors,  essentially  eliminated  ground  reflections 
from  the  measurements. 


%iM  -^  ..«S.JS 


Fig.  7  —  Conical  horn-lens  antenna  and  mount. 


914 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


ID 

r 

14 

r 

1 

13 

p 

f 

A 

»^~x 

12 

3 

Y / 

/ 

y 

'  / 

/ 
/ 

1  i 

f 

1 1 
It 

6 

J 

1 

5 

/ 

r 

1 1 
11 

1 

f  a 

4 

^ 

'/ 

^^m^" 

0 

^          r 

48       49        50        51         52         53        54        55        56         57         58       59 
FREQUENCY    IN     KILOMEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


60        61 


Fig.  8  —  Calculated  and  measured  absorption  by  air  at  sea  level.  The  dots 
represent  the  experimental  data;  the  vertical  lines  indicate  the  spread  in  the  meas- 
ured values.  Curves  A  and  B  are  calculated  curves  of  oxygen  absorption  using 
line-breadth  constants  of  600  and  1200  mc,  respectively^,  and  a  temperature  of 
293°  K.  (Courtesy  of  T.  F.  Rogers,  Air  Force  Cambridge  Research  Center.) 


RESULTS 

The  data  to  be  discussed  are  shown  in  Fig.  8;  they  were  taken  at  Hohn- 
del,  N.  J.,  during  the  months  of  December,  1954,  and  January,  1955,  on 
days  when  the  temperature  was  between  25  and  40  degrees  Fahrenheit ; 
the  absolute  humidity  was  less  than  5  grams/meter^  during  the  measure- 
ments. It  is  believed,  therefore,  that  the  resonance  of  the  oxygen  mole- 
cule is  the  main  contributor  to  the  absorption. 

The  spread  in  llie  measurements  is  indicated  by  vertical  lines  through 
the  average  values.  Each  point  represents  an  average  of  six  or  more  meas- 
m'oments  taken  on  different  days.  In  the  range  49  to  54.5  kmc,  (5.5  to 


ATMOSPHERIC    ATTENUATION    AT    MILLIMETER   WAVELENGTHS         915 

'6 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 rr — I 1 i 


1 1 r 


"I r 


._ SEA   LEVEL 


_---8   KILOMETERS 


,--11    KILOMETERS 


.--32    KILOMETERS 


50 


52 


54  56  58  60  62  64  66 

FREQUENCY  IN   KILOMEGACYCLES    PER  SECOND 


68 


70 


Fig.  9  —  Calculated  curves  of  oxygen  absorption  at  various  altitudes  for  a 
line-breadth  constant  of  600  megacycles  and  a  temperature  of  293°  K.  (Courtesy 
of  T.  F.  Rogers,  Air  Force  Cambridge  Research  Center.) 

6.1  mm)  the  measurements  were  highly  consistent,  due  mainly  to  the 
longer  path  that  was  used.  Errors  in  the  absolute  values  of  the  absorption 
are  estimated  not  to  exceed  ±0.05  db/km  in  the  49  to  54.5  kmc  region, 
±0.25  db/km  in  the  55.5  to  59  kmc  region.  The  errors  in  absolute  absorp- 
tion are  governed  mainly  by  the  structural  and  thermo-mechanical  sta- 
bility of  the  corner  reflectors. 


-I 


o 

Q 


0 

-2 

-4 
-6 

10 
16 

/^ 

\ 

\ 

A~^ 

A 

/ 

\ 

y 

I 

/^ 

J  n 

/ 

iry 

\ 

/ 

\ 

a/ 

V 

\i\ 

V 

\ 

a/ 

\j>A 

y " 

v/v 

V/~v^ 

r 

3:20 


3:30 


3:40 


3:50  4:00 

TIME    OF    DAY.  P.M. 


4:10 


4:20 


4:30 


Fig.  10  —  Attenuation  of  6.0-mm  radiation  caused  by  a  light  rain. 
Round-trip  path  length  =  2.72  kilometers 

Average  rainfall  rate  =  5  millimeters  per  hour 


916       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  195G 


Table  II 

Approximate  Optical  Visibility 
(miles) 

Attenuation  due  to  Land  Fog  DB/KM 

0.06 
0.13 
0.22 

In  Fig.  8,  measured  values  are  compared  with  the  theory  of  Van  Vleck 
as  calculated  by  T.  F.  Rogers  using  line-breadth  constants  of  600  mc 
and  1200  mc  per  atmosphere.  The  fit  with  the  600-mc  curve  is  good  from 
49  to  55.5  kmc,  but  discrepancies  are  evident  between  56.5  and  59  kmc. 
For  completeness,  Rogers'  calculations  for  the  absorption  at  higher  alti- 
tudes are  reproduced  in  Fig.  9. 

A  few  continuous  recordings  of  rain  attenuation  have  been  made  at  a 
wavelength  of  6.0  mm;  a  record  taken  during  a  light  rain  is  shown  in 
Fig.  10.  The  median  value  of  the  signal  is  —6.7  db  which  corresponds  to 
an  attenuation  of  2.5  db/km  for  this  5  mm  per  hour  rainfall.  During  more 
intensive  rainfalls,  short-term  attenuations  in  excess  of  25  db/km  have 
been  observed. 

On  one  occasion,  it  was  possible  to  measure  attenuation  by  land  fog. 
The  measurements  given  in  Table  II  were  made  at  a  wavelength  of  6.0 
mm.  No  information  regarding  water  content  or  drop  size  was  available 
for  this  fog. 

CONCLUSION 

A  frequency-modulation,  two-way  transmission  technique  has  proven 
reliable  for  measurement  of  atmospheric  attenuation  at  millimeter  wave- 
lengths. Prerequisite  to  the  success  of  the  method  are  corner  reflectors 
with  good  mechanical,  thermal  and  electrical  stability. 

The  frequency-modulation  method  has  been  demonstrated  by  absorp- 
tion measurements  in  the  free  atmosphere  in  the  5.1-  to  6.1-mm  band. 
The  data  thus  obtained  are  in  good  agreement  with  Van  Vleck 's  theory 
of  oxygen  absorption;  the  line-breadth  constant  appropriate  to  the  meas- 
urements lies  between  600  and  800  mc  per  atmosphere. 

REFERENCES 

1.  J.  H.  Van  Vleck,  Phys.  Rev.,  71,  pp.  413  ff,  1947. 

2.  R.  Beringer,  Phys.  Rev.,  70,  p.  53,  1946.  R.  S.  Anderson,  W.  V.  Smith  and  W. 

Gordy,  Phys.  Rev.  87,  p.  561,  1952.  J.  O.  Artman  and  J.  P.  Gordon,  Phj^s. 
Rev.,  96,  p.  1237,  1954. 

3.  R.  H.  Dicke,  R.  Beringer,  R.  L.  Kyhl,  A.  B.  Vane,  Phys.  Rev.,  70,  p.  340,  1946. 

G.  E.  Mueller,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  34,  p.  181,  1946.  H.  R.  Lament,  Phys.  Rev.,  74, 
p.  353,  1948. 


A  New  Interpretation  of  Information  Rate 

By  J.  L.  KELLY,  JR. 

(Manuscript  received  March  21,  1956) 

7/  the  input  symbols  to  a  communication  channel  represent  the  outcomes 
of  a  chance  event  on  which  hets  are  available  at  odds  consistent  with  their 
probabilities  (i.e.,  "fair''  odds),  a  gambler  can  use  the  knowledge  given 
him  by  the  received  symbols  to  cause  his  money  to  grow  exponentially.  The 
maximum  exponential  rate  of  growth  of  the  gambler's  capital  is  equal  to 
the  rate  of  transmission  of  information  over  the  channel.  This  result  is 
generalized  to  include  the  case  of  arbitrary  odds. 

Thus  we  find  a  situation  in  which  the  transmission  rate  is  significant 
even  though  no  coding  is  contemplated.  Previously  this  quantity  was  given 
significance  only  by  a  theorem  of  Shannon's  which  asserted  that,  with  suit- 
able encoding,  binary  digits  coidd  be  transmitted  over  the  channel  at  this 
rate  with  an  arbitrarily  small  probability  of  error. 

INTRODUCTION 

Shannon  defines  the  rate  of  transmission  over  a  noisy  communication 
channel  in  terms  of  various  probabilities.  This  definition  is  given  sig- 
nificance by  a  theorem  which  asserts  that  binary  digits  may  be  encoded 
and  transmitted  over  the  channel  at  this  rate  with  arbitrarily  small 
probability  of  error.  Many  workers  in  the  field  of  communication  theory 
have  felt  a  desire  to  attach  significance  to  the  rate  of  transmission  in 
cases  where  no  coding  was  contemplated.  Some  have  even  proceeded 
on  the  assumption  that  such  a  significance  did,  in  fact,  exist.  For  ex- 
ample, in  systems  where  no  coding  was  desirable  or  even  possible  (such 
as  radar),  detectors  have  been  designed  by  the  criterion  of  maximum 
transmission  rate  or,  what  is  the  same  thing,  minimum  equivocation. 
Without  further  analysis  such  a  procedure  is  unjustified. 

The  problem  then  remains  of  attaching  a  value  measure  to  a  communi- 


^  C.  E.  Shannon,  A  Mathematical  Theory  of  Communication,  B.S.T.J.,  27, 
pp.  379-423,  623-656,  Oct.,  1948. 

917 


918  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    195G 

cation  system  in  which  errors  are  being  made  at  a  non-negligible  rate, 
i.e.,  Avhere  optimum  coding  is  not  being  used.  In  its  most  general  formu- 
lation this  problem  seems  to  have  but  one  solution.  A  cost  function  must 
be  defined  on  pairs  of  symbols  which  tell  how  bad  it  is  to  receive  a  cer- 
tain symbol  when  a  specified  signal  is  transmitted.  Furthermore,  this 
cost  function  must  be  such  that  its  expected  value  has  significance,  i.e., 
a  system  must  be  preferable  to  another  if  its  average  cost  is  less.  The 
utility  theoiy  of  Von  Neumann  shows  us  one  way  to  obtain  such  a  cost 
function.  Generally  this  cost  function  would  depend  on  things  external 
to  the  system  and  not  on  the  probabilities  which  describe  the  system,  so 
that  its  average  value  could  not  be  identified  with  the  rate  as  defined 
by  Shannon. 

The  cost  function  approach  is,  of  course,  not  limited  to  studies  of  com- 
munication systems,  but  can  actually  be  used  to  analyze  nearly  any 
branch  of  human  endeavor.  The  author  believes  that  it  is  too  general  to 
shed  any  light  on  the  specific  problems  of  communication  theory.  The 
distinguishing  feature  of  a  communication  system  is  that  the  ultimate 
receiver  (thought  of  here  as  a  person)  is  in  a  position  to  profit  from  any 
knowledge  of  the  input  symbols  or  even  from  a  better  estimate  of  their 
probabilities.  A  cost  function,  if  it  is  supposed  to  apply  to  a  communica- 
tion system,  must  somehow  reflect  this  feature.  The  point  here  is  that 
an  arbitrary  combination  of  a  statistical  transducer  (i.e.,  a  channel)  and 
a  cost  function  does  not  necessarily  constitute  a  communication  system. 
In  fact  (not  knowing  the  exact  definition  of  a  communication  system 
on  which  the  above  statements  are  tacitly  based)  the  author  would  not 
know  how  to  test  such  an  arbitrary  combination  to  see  if  it  were  a  com- 
munication system. 

What  can  be  done,  however,  is  to  take  some  real-life  situation  which 
seems  to  possess  the  essential  features  of  a  communication  problem,  and 
to  analyze  it  without  the  introduction  of  an  arbitrary  cost  function. 
The  situation  which  will  be  chosen  here  is  one  in  which  a  gambler  uses 
knowledge  of  the  received  symbols  of  a  communication  channel  in  order 
to  make  profitable  bets  on  the  transmitted  symbols. 

THE    GAMBLER  WITH   A    PRIVATE   WIRE 

Let  us  consider  a  communication  channel  which  is  used  to  transmit  the 
results  of  a  chance  situation  before  those  results  become  common 
knowledge,  so  that  a  gambler  may  still  place  bets  at  the  original  odds. 
Consider  first  the  case  of  a  noiseless  binary  channel,  which  might  be 


^  Von  Neumann  and  Morgenstein,  Theory  of  Games  and  Economic  Behavior, 
Princeton  Univ.  Press,  2nd  Edition,  1947. 


A  NEW  INTERPRETATION  OF  INFORMATION  RATE         919 

used,  for  example,  to  transmit  the  results  of  a  series  of  baseball  games 
between  two  equally  matched  teams.  The  gambler  could  obtain  even 
money  bets  even  though  he  already  knew  the  result  of  each  game.  The 
amount  of  money  he  could  make  \\'ould  depend  only  on  how  much  he 
chose  to  bet.  How  much  would  he  bet?  Probably  all  he  had  since  he 
would  win  with  certainty.  In  this  case  his  capital  would  grow  expo- 
nentially and  after  N  bets  he  would  have  2^  times  his  original  bankroll. 
This  exponential  growth  of  capital  is  not  uncommon  in  economics.  In 
fact,  if  the  binary  digits  in  the  above  channel  were  arriving  at  the  rate 
of  one  per  week,  the  sequence  of  bets  would  have  the  value  of  an  invest- 
ment paying  100  per  cent  interest  per  week  compounded  weekly.  We 
will  make  use  of  a  quantity  G  called  the  exponential  rate  of  growth  of 
the  gambler's  capital,  where 

G  =  Urn  -^  log  ^ 

iVH.00    iV  V  0 

where  Vn  is  the  gambler's  capital  after  A''  bets,  Vo  is  his  starting  capital, 
and  the  logarithm  is  to  the  base  two.  In  the  above  example  (j  =  1. 

Consider  the  case  now  of  a  noisy  binary  channel,  where  each  trans- 
mitted symbol  has  probability,  p,  or  error  and  q  of  correct  transmission. 
Now  the  gambler  could  still  bet  his  entire  capital  each  time,  and,  in 
fact,  this  would  maximize  the  expected  value  of  his  capital,  (Fjv), 
which  in  this  case  would  be  given  by 

(F;v)  =  (2qfVo 

This  would  1)6  little  comfort,  however,  since  when  A^  was  large  he  would 
probably  be  broke  and,  in  fact,  would  be  broke  with  probability  one  if 
he  continued  indefinitely.  Let  us,  instead,  assume  that  he  bets  a  frac- 
tion, (,  of  his  capital  each  time.  Then 

v^  =  (1  +  (y\i  -^fvo 

where  W  aiid  L  are  the  number  of  wins  and  losses  in  the  N  bets.  Then 


G  =  Lim 


^logd  -f  o+^iog(i  -i) 


=  g  log  (1  -f  /')  -1-  p  log  (1  —  i)  with  probability  one 

Let  us  maximize  G  with  respect  to  /.  The  maximum  value  with  respect 
to  the  Yi  of  a  quantity  of  the  form  Z  =  ^  Xi  log  Yi ,  subject  to  the 
constraint  ^  Yi  =   Y,  is  obtained  by  putting 

Y 
Yi  =  j^  Xi , 


920  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 

where  X  =  ^  Xi .  This  may  be  shown  directly  from  the  convexity  of 
the  logarithm. 


and 


Thus  we  put 

(1  +  ^)   =  2q 
(1  -  -f)  =  2p 

G^max    =    1   +   P  log  p  +   g  log  g 

=  R 

which  is  the  rate  of  transmission  as  defined  by  Shannon. 

One  might  still  argue  that  the  gambler  should  bet  all  his  money 
(make  ^  =  1)  in  order  to  maximize  his  expected  win  after  N  times.  It 
is  surely  true  that  if  the  game  were  to  be  stopped  after  N  bets  the  answer 
to  this  question  would  depend  on  the  relative  values  (to  the  gambler) 
of  being  broke  or  possessing  a  fortune.  If  we  compare  the  fates  of  two 
gamblers,  however,  playing  a  nonterminating  game,  the  one  which  uses 
the  value  €  found  above  will,  with  probability  one,  eventually  get  ahead 
and  stay  ahead  of  one  using  any  other  i.  At  any  rate,  we  will  assume 
that  the  gambler  will  always  bet  so  as  to  maximize  G. 

THE   GENERAL   CASE 

Let  us  now  consider  the  case  in  which  the  channel  has  several  input 
symbols,  not  necessarily  equally  likely,  which  represent  the  outcome  of 
chance  events.  We  will  use  the  following  notation: 

p{s)      the  probability  that  the  transmitted  symbol  is  the  s'th  one. 
p(r/s)  the  conditional  probability^  that  the  received  symbol  is  the 

r'th  on  the  hypothesis  that  the  transmitted  symbol  is  the  s'th 

one. 
p(s,  r)  the  joint  probability  of  the  s'th  transmitted  and  r'th  received 

symbol. 
q{r)       received  symbol  probability. 
q(s/r)  conditional  probability  of  transmitted  symbol  on  hypothesis 

of  received  symbol, 
a,         the  odds  paid  on  the  occurrence  of  the  s'th  transmitted  symbol, 

i.e.,  as  is  the  number  of  dollars  returned  for  a  one-dollar  bet 

(including  that  one  dollar), 
a(s/r)  the  fraction  of  the  gambler's  capital  that  he  decides  to  bet  on 

the  occurrence  of  the  s'th  transmitted  symbol  after  observing 

the  r'th  received  symbol 


^ 


A  NEW  INTERPRETATION  OF  INFORMATION  RATE  921 

Only  the  case  of  independent  transmitted  symbols  and  noise  will  be 
considered.  We  will  consider  first  the  case  of  "fair"  odds,  i.e., 

1 

Ois    = 


p{s) 


In  any  sort  of  parimutual  betting  there  is  a  tendency  for  the  odds  to  be 
fair  (ignoring  the  "track  take").  To  see  this  first  note  that  if  there  is  no 
"track  take" 


Ei  =  i 


since  all  the  money  collected  is  paid  out  to  the  winner.  Next  note  that  if 

p(s) 

for  some  s  a  bettor  could  insure  a  profit  by  making  repeated  bets  on  the 
s*    outcome.  The  extra  betting  which  would  result  would  lower  a.,  . 
The  same  feedback  mechanism  probably  takes  place  in  more  compli- 
cated betting  situations,  such  as  stock  market  speculation. 
There  is  no  loss  in  generality  in  assuming  that 

Z  a(s/r)  =  1 

s 

i.e.,  the  gambler  bets  his  total  capital  regardless  of  the  received  symbol. 
Since 

he  can  effectively  hold  back  money  by  placing  canceling  bets.  Now 

r,s 

where  Wsr  is  the  number  of  times  that  the  transmitted  symbol  is  s  and 
the  received,  symbol  is  r. 

Log  ^  =  X)  ^V^r  log  oisa{s/r) 

vl      "  "^ 

G  =  Urn  ^  log  -f/  =  X)  P(^>  ^)  log  oLsa{s/r) 

N^x    I\  Vq  ts 

with  probability  one.  Since 

1 


oil   = 


'       Pis) 


922 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  195G 


here 


G  =  H  P(s,  r)  log 


a(s/r) 


-  J2v(s,  r)  log  a(s/r)  +  H{X) 

rs 

where  H{X)  is  the  source  rate  as  defined  by  Shannon.  The  first  term  is 
maximized  by  putting 

^kP{k,  r)         q{r) 

Then  (7max  =  H(X)  —  H{X/Y),  which  is  the  rate  of  transmission  de- 
fined by  Shannon. 

WHEN   THE    ODDS   ARE  NOT   FAIR 

Consider  the  case  where  there  is  no  track  take,  i.e., 

but  where  as  is  not  necessarily 

1 

V{s) 

It  is  still  permissible  to  set  ^s  a{s/r)  =  1  since  the  gambler  can  effec- 
tively hold  back  any  amount  of  money  by  betting  it  in  proportion  to 
the  I /as  .  Equation  (1)  now  can  be  written 

G  =  ^  P(s,  r)  log  a(s/r)  -f-  J2  Pi^)  log  a.  . 

rs  s 

G  is  still  maximized  by  placing  a(s/r)  =  q{s/r)  and 

G^max    =     -H{X/Y)   +    Y.  Pis)  log  as 

s 

=  H(a)  -  HiX/Y) 


where 


H{a)   =  X  pis)  log  as 


Several  interesting  facts  emerge  here 

(a)  In  this  case  G  is  maximized  as  before  by  putting  a{s/r)  ^  qis/r). 
That  is,  the  gambler  ignores  the  posted  odds  in  placing  his  bets! 


A  NEW  INTERPRETATION  OF  INFORMATION  RATE  923 

(b)  Since  the  minimum  value  of  H{a)  subject  to 


s    as 
obtains  when 


a.  = 


p(s) 


and  H(X)  =  H(a),  any  deviation  from  fair  odds  helps  the  gambler. 

(c)  Since  the  gambler's  exponential  gain  would  be  H{a)  —  H(X)  if 
he  had  no  inside  information,  we  can  interpret  R  =  H{X)  —  H{X/Y) 
as  the  increase  of  Gmax  due  to  the  communication  channel.  When  there 
is  no  channel,  i.e.,  H{X/Y)  =  H{X),  Gmax  is  minimized  (at  zero)  by  set- 
ting 

1 

as  =  — 

Ps 

This  gives  further  meaning  to  the  concept  "fair  odds." 

WHEN  THERE   IS   A    "TRACK   TAKE" 

In  the  case  there  is  a  "track  take"  the  situation  is  more  complicated. 
It  can  no  longer  be  assumed  that  ^s  a{s/r)  =  1.  The  gambler  cannot 
make  canceling  bets  since  he  loses  a  percentage  to  the  track.  Let  br  = 
1  —  X)s  ais/r),  i.e.,  the  fraction  not  bet  when  the  received  symbol  is 
the  r     one.  Then  the  quantity  to  be  maximized  is 

G  =  11  p(s,  r)  log  [br  +  aMs/r)],  (2) 

rs 

subject  to  the  constraints 

br+  E«(sA)  =  1. 

In  maximizing  (2)  it  is  sufficient  to  maximize  the  terms  involving  a 
particular  value  of  r  and  to  do  this  separately  for  each  value  of  r  smce 
both  in  (2)  and  in  the  associated  constraints,  terms  involving  different 
r's  are  independent.  That  is,  we  must  maximize  terms  of  the  type 

Gr  =  q(r)^  q(s/r)  log  [6,  +  asa(s/r)] 

s 

subject  to  the  constraint 


924 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


Actually,  each  of  these  terms  is  the  same  form  as  that  of  the  gambler's 
exponential  gain  where  there  is  no  channel 

(?  =  X;  p(s)  log  [b  +  a.a(s)].  (3) 

a 

We  will  maximize  (3)  and  interpret  the  results  either  as  a  typical 
term  in  the  general  problem  or  as  the  total  exponential  gain  in  the  case 
of  no  communication  channel.  Let  us  designate  by  X  the  set  of  indices, 
s,  for  which  a(s)  >  0,  and  by  X'  the  set  for  which  a(s)  =  0.  Now  at  the 
desired  maximum 


p(s)as 


dG 


da{s)       b  +  a(s)ai 


log  e  =  k         for  seX 


dG       y-^        p{s)        ,  , 

-1-  =  Z^  -, — .    \\ —  log  e  =  k 

dG         p(s)as  ,  ^  J  r         .f 

— T-r  =  ^  /      log  e  :^  /c  for  SfX 

da{s)  b         ^     ~ 


where  /c  is  a  constant.  The  equations  yield 

k  =  log  e,  b  = 

b 


ais)  =  pis)  - 


1  -P 

1  -  a- 

for  seX 


as 


where  p  =  Xxp(s),  a-  =  ^x  (1/as),  and  the  inequalities  yield 


p(s)as  ^  b  = 


1  -p 


for  SfX 


We  will  see  that  the  conditions 


(X  <  1 
p(s)as  > 
p(s)as  ^ 


1 


P 


1  -  a 

1  -P 
1  -  <r 


se\ 


for  seX 


completely  determine  X. 

If  we  permute  indices  so  that 


p(s)ae  ^  p(s  +  l)as+i 


A  NEW  INTERPRETATION  OF  INFORMATION  RATE  925 

then  X  must  consist  of  all  s  ^  i  where  t  is  a,  positive  integer  or  zero. 
Consider  how  the  fraction 

I    —    (Xt 

varies  with  t,  where 

t  t     ^ 

Pt  =  ^  p(s),        <Tt  =  ^  —  ;        Fo  =  1 

I  1    as 

Now  if  p(l)ar  <  1,  Ft  increases  with  i  until  at  ^  1.  In  this  case  t  =  0 
satisfies  the  desired  conditions  and  X  is  empty.  If  p{l)ai  >  1  Ft  de- 
creases with  t  until  p(t  +  l)at+i  <  Ft  or  at  ^  1.  If  the  former  occurs, 
i.e.,  p(t  +  l)oit+i  <  Ft ,  then  i^^+i  >  Ft  and  the  fraction  increases  until 
cr<  ^  1.  In  any  case  the  desired  value  of  t  is  the  one  which  gives  Ft  its 
minimum  positive  value,  or  if  there  is  more  than  one  such  value  of  /, 
the  smallest.  The  maximizing  process  may  be  summed  up  as  follows: 

(a)  Permute  indices  so  that  p(s)as  ^  p(s  +  l)Qrg+i 

(b)  Set  h  equal  to  the  minimum  positive  value  of 

-I  t  <     - 

—  where  Pt  =  ILp  (s),  at  =  ^  — 

i-    —    (Tt  1  1     ffj 

(c)  Set  a(s)   =  p(s)   —  b/as  or  zero,  whichever  is  larger.  (The  a(s) 
will  sum  to  1  —  h.) 

The  desired  maximum  G  will  then  be 


(rmax  =  Z)  P(s)  log  p(s)as  +  (1  -  Pt)  log 


1  -Pt 

I    -    CTt 

where  t  is  the  smallest  index  which  gives 

1  -Pt 
1   -  <rt 

its  minimum  positive  value. 

It  should  be  noted  that  if  p{s)as  <  1  for  all  s  no  bets  are  placed,  but 
if  the  largest  p(s)as  >  1  some  bets  might  be  made  for  which  p(s)as  <  1, 
i.e.,  the  expected  gain  is  negative.  This  violates  the  criterion  of  the 
classical  gambler  who  never  bets  on  such  an  event. 

CONCLUSION 

The  gambler  introduced  here  follows  an  essentially  different  criterion 
from  the  classical  gambler.  At  every  bet  he  maximizes  the  expected 
value  of  the  logarithm  of  his  capital.  The  reason  has  nothing  to  do  with 


92(i  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   .lOlKXAL,    JCLY    195G 

the  value  function  Avhich  he  attached  to  his  money,  but  merely  with  the 
fact  that  it  is  the  logarithm  A\hic'h  is  additive  in  repeated  bets  and  to 
which  the  law  of  large  numbers  applies.  Suppose  the  situation  were 
different;  for  example,  suppose  the  gambler's  wife  allowed  him  to  bet 
one  dollar  each  week  but  not  to  reinvest  his  winnings.  He  should  then 
maximize  his  expectation  (expected  value  of  capital)  on  each  bet.  He 
would  bet  all  his  available  capital  (one  dollar)  on  the  event  j-ielding  the 
highest  expectation.  With  probability  one  he  would  get  ahead  of  any- 
one dividing  his  money  differently. 

It  should  be  noted  that  we  have  only  shown  that  our  gambler's  capital 
will  surpass,  with  probability  one,  that  of  any  gambler  apportioning  his 
money  different!}^  from  ours  but  still  m  a  fixed  way  for  each  received 
sjanbol,  independent  of  time  or  past  events.  Theorems  remain  to  be 
proved  showing  in  what  sense,  if  any,  our  strategy  is  superior  to  others 
involving  a{s/r)  which  are  not  constant. 

Although  the  model  adopted  here  is  draAvn  from  the  real-life  situation 
of  gambling  it  is  possible  that  it  could  apph'  to  certain  other  economic 
situations.  The  essential  requirements  for  the  validity  of  the  theory  are 
the  possibilit}'  of  reinvestment  of  profits  and  the  abilit}^  to  control  or 
vary  the  amount  of  money  invested  or  bet  in  different  categories.  The 
"channel"  of  the  theory  might  correspond  to  a  real  communication 
channel  or  simply  to  the  totality  of  inside  information  available  to 
the  investor. 

Let  us  summarize  briefly  the  results  of  this  paper.  Tf  a  gambler  places 
bets  on  the  input  symbol  to  a  comnumication  channel  and  l)ets  his  money 
in  the  same  proportion  each  time  a  particular  symbol  is  receiA'cd  his, 
capital  will  grow  (or  shrink)  exponentially.  If  the  odds  are  consistent 
with  the  probabilities  of  occvu'rence  of  the  transmitted  symbols  (i.e., 
equal  to  their  reciprocals),  the  maximum  value  of  this  exponential  rate 
of  growth  will  be  equal  to  the  rate  of  transmission  of  information.  If  the 
odds  are  not  fair,  i.e.,  not  consistent  with  the  transmitted  symbol  proba- 
bilities but  consistent  with  some  other  set  of  probabilities,  the  maximum 
exponential  rate  of  growth  will  be  larger  than  it  would  have  been  with  no 
channel  by  an  amount  equal  to  the  rate  of  transmission  of  information. 
In  case  there  is  a  "track  take"  similar  results  are  obtained,  but  the 
formulae  involved  are  more  complex  and  have  less  direct  information 
theoretic  interpretations. 

ACNOWLEDGMENTS 

I  am  indebted  to  R.  E.  Graham  and  C.  E.  Shannon  for  their  assist- 
ance in  the  preparation  of  this  paper. 


Automatic  Testing  of  Transmission 

and  Operational  Functions  of 

Intertoll  Trunks 

By  H.  H.  FELDER,  A.  J.  PASCARELLA  and 
H.  F.  SHOFFSTALL 

(Manuscript  received  October  19,  1955) 

Conditions  brought  about  by  nationwide  dialing  increase  intertoll  trunk 
maintenance  problems  substantiaUy.  Under  this  switching  plan  with  full 
automatic  alternate  routing  there  is  a  considerable  increase  in  the  amount 
of  multiswitched  business,  and  as  many  as  eight  intertoll  trunks  in  tandem 
are  permissible.  In  addition,  operator  checks  of  transmission  on  the  connec- 
tions are  lost  on  most  calls.  These  factors  iynpose  more  severe  limitations  on 
transmission  loss  variations  in  the  individual  trunks  and  throw  on  the 
maintenance  forces  additional  burdens  of  detecting  defects  in  the  distance 
dialing  network. 

New  methods  of  analyzing  transmission  performance  to  locate  the  points 
where  maintenance  effort  will  be  most  effective  continue  to  be  studied.  The 
automatic  testing  arrangements  described  in  this  paper  enable  the  main- 
tenance forces  to  collect  over-all  transmission  loss  data  quickly  and  with  a 
minimum  of  effort.  They  also  facilitate  the  collection  of  such  data  on  groups 
of  trunks  in  a  form  to  make  statistical  analyses  easier.  The  use  of  these 
testing  arrangements  will  permit  the  maintenance  forces  to  keep  a  closer 
watch  on  intertoll  trunk  performance  and  will  assist  in  disclosing  trouble 
patterns. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  advent  of  nationwide  dialing,  especiall}'  with  full  automatic 
alternate  routing,  has  presented  additional  problems  in  the  maintenance 
of  intertoll  trunks.  Transmission  reciuirements  are  more  rigorous,  the 
intertoll  trunk  connections  are  more  complex,  and  certain  irregularities 
in  the  performance  of  the  distance  dialing  network  are  difficult  to  detect. 
Automatic  test  equipment  has  been  provided  to  aid  and  increase  the 
efficiency  of  over-all  testing.  This  equipment  is  capable  of  automatically 

927 


928      THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

testing  the  operational  (signaling  and  supervisory)  functions  of  dial-type 
intertoU  trunks,  and  of  making  two-way  transmission  loss  measurements 
and  a  noise  check  at  each  end.  The  test  results  may  be  recorded  at  the 
originating  end  by  means  of  a  Teletypewriter. 

Automatic  trunk  testing  has  been  used  for  many  years  in  the  local 
plant  for  checking  the  signaling  and  supervisory  features  of  interoffice 
trunks.  The  automatic  intertoll  trunk  testing  equipment  serves  a  similar 
function  with  respect  to  these  operational  features  of  the  intertoll  trunks. 
Because  published  material  is  available  on  automatic  operational  test- 
ing,* these  features  will  not  be  discussed  in  detail  in  this  paper;  more 
emphasis  is  given  to  the  transmission  testing  features  which  are  new. 

MAINTENANCE  ARRANGEMENTS  FOR  INTERTOLL  TRUNKS 

Except  in  the  very  small  offices,  intertoll  trunks  usually  have  a  test 
jack  appearance  in  the  toll  testboard  for  maintenance  purposes.  Cord 
ended  testing  equipment  in  the  toll  testboard  positions  enables  the 
attendants  to  perform  various  operational  tests  and  to  make  transmis- 
sion loss,  balance,  noise  or  crosstalk  measurements.  Facilities  are  pro- 
vided for  communication  with  distant  offices  and  with  intermediate 
points  where  carrier  or  repeater  equipment  may  be  located.  Testing  of 
carrier  or  repeater  equipment  as  individual  components  or  systems  is 
an  important  aspect  of  the  trunk  maintenance  problem  but  is  beyond 
the  scope  of  the  present  paper. 

The  maintenance  of  intertoll  trunk  net  losses  close  to  their  specified 
values  is  currently  a  most  important  transmission  problem.  Various 
aspects  of  the  problem  are  discussed  in  a  companion  paper,  f 

Although  the  manual  testing  equipment  mentioned  above  is  vital  to 
trunk  net  loss  maintenance,  the  need  for  reduction  in  time  and  effort 
required  to  make  measurements  has  led  to  the  provision  of  semi-auto- 
matic testing  arrangements.  These  arrangements  permit  a  testboard 
attendant  to  check  transmission  in  the  incoming  direction  by  dialing 
code  102  over  a  trunk.  The  trunk  is  connected  to  a  source  of  one  milli- 
watt test  power  at  the  far  end  and  a  measurement  of  the  received  power 
indicates  the  net  loss.  The  equivalent  of  a  semi-automatic  two-way  test 
may  be  obtained  by  making  a  code  102  test  in  each  direction.  If  com- 
plete information  on  the  test  results  is  desired  by  one  testboard  at- 
tendant, the  attendant  at  the  other  end  of  the  trunk  must  report  back 
his  results. 


*  R.  C.  Nance,  Automatic  Intertoll  Trunk  Testing,  Bell  Labs.  Record,  Dec, 
1954. 

t  H.  H.  Felder  and  E.  N.  Little,  Intertoll  Trunk  Net  Loss  Maintenance  Under 
Operator  Distance  and  Direct  Distance  Dialing,  page  955  of  this  issue. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTEETOLL   TRUNKS  929 

In  both  the  manual  and  semi-automatic  methods  of  measurement,  the 
results  must  be  recorded  manually.  For  statistical  analysis  of  trunk 
transmission  performance  in  terms  of  "bias"  and  "distribution  grade", 
as  discussed  in  the  companion  paper,*  deviations  of  the  measured  losses 
from  the  respective  specified  losses  must  be  computed  and  summarized 
manually. 

The  automatic  testing  equipment  described  in  this  paper  has  been 
developed  as  an  additional  maintenance  tool.  It  will  not  supplant  exist- 
ing arrangements  discussed  above  but  rather  is  intended  to  increase  the 
capabilities  of  plant  personnel  to  do  an  effective  maintenance  job.  The 
following  features  of  the  equipment  contribute  particularly  to  this  end: 

1.  Large  numbers  of  trunks  can  be  tested  and  the  results  recorded 
without  the  continuous  attention  of  a  testboard  attendant. 

2.  The  attendant  is  informed  by  an  alarm  whenever  the  loss  of  a 
trunk  deviates  excessively  from  the  specified  value. 

3.  Computation  and  summarizing  of  net  loss  deviations  into  class 
intervals  are  done  automatically,  thus  facilitating  statistical  analysis  of 
trunk  performance. 

4.  Data  can  be  collected  quickly  in  large  volume  for  indicating  the 
performance  of  groups  of  trunks.  Confusion  occurring  with  manual 
measurements  because  of  changing  conditions  with  time  is  reduced. 

5.  Stability  of  an  individual  trunk  may  be  checked  by  a  series  of 
repetitive  tests. 

6.  Semi-automatic  two-way  trunk  tests  can  be  made  by  one  attendant 
when  required. 

To  do  an  equivalent  job  entirely  by  manual  methods  would  require 
an  appreciable  increase  in  the  amount  of  manual  test  equipment  and  in 
the  number  of  test  personnel.  A  comparison  of  the  times  required  for 
operational  and  transmission  tests  by  manual,  semi-automatic  and  auto- 
matic methods  is  shown  in  Fig.  1.  The  time  shown  for  the  code  102  test 
does  not  include  coordination  time  required  if  information  on  test  re- 
sults in  both  directions  is  required  at  one  end. 

GENERAL  DESCRIPTION  OF  AUTOMATIC  TESTING  EQUIPMENT 

Automatic  intertoll  trunk  testing  requires  automatic  equipment  at 
both  ends  of  the  trunk.At  the  originating  or  control  end,  an  automatic 
test  circuit  sets  up  the  test  call  and  controls  the  various  test  features.  In 
the  distant  offices,  test  lines  reached  through  the  switching  train  provide 
appropriate  automatic  test  terminations.  The  automatic  equipment  for 


*  H.  H.  Felder  and  E.  N.  Little,  Intertoll  Trunk  Net  Loss  Maintenance  Under 
Operator  Distance  and  Direct  Distance  Dialing,  page  955  of  this  issue. 


930 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


use  at  the  control  end,  adapted  for  transmission  testing,  is  presently 
available  only  for  No.  4  type  toll  switching  offices. 

Fig.  2  is  a  block  schematic  of  the  arrangement  for  automatic  intertoll 
trunk  testing,  including  transmission  tests.  In  the  originating  No.  4  toll 
crossbar  oflicc  an  automatic  outgoing  intertoll  trunk  test  circuit  is  used 
which  consists  of  an  automatic  outgoing  intertoll  trunk  test  frame  and 
one  or  more  associated  test  connector  frames.  These  frames  have  been 
provided  in  all  No.  4  type  offices  and  perform  the  functions  of  setting  up 


MANUAL (2   MEN) 


NEAR   END 
OFFICE 


FAR  END 
"  OFFICE 


If)  4 
lij 

i3 


CIRCUIT 

OPERATION 

TESTS 


TEST 
BOARD 


TEST 
BOARD 


5 
H   0 


1   - 


2 -WAY 

TRANSMISSION 

MEASUREMENTS 


■■ 


3.5 


8.0 


MAN    MINUTES    PER   TEST 


SEMI-AUTOMATIC  {l  MAN) 


TEST 
BOARD 


103 
OR 
102 
OR 
104 
TEST 
LINE 


(CODE  104  TEST 

INCLUDES 

NOISE   CHECK) 


CODE  TEST 

/ ' s 

102     104 


a?       0.9       1.8 
MAN   MINUTES   PER  TEST 


FULLY   AUTOMATIC 


<n  4 

UJ 

(- 

2  2 

z 

UJ     1 

5 
P  0 

(INCLUDES 
NOISE  CHECK) 

rrvi 

■ 

103 
OR 
104 
TEST 
LINE 

AOIT 
FRAME 

^"tr^ 

1 

— xjr^ 

1 

ATTC 
FRAME 

(USED  ONLY 

FOR  104 
TEST) 

10  SECONDS 

0.5  MINUTES 

PER    lt5l 

Fig.  1  —  Time  required  for  manual  tests  versus  semi-automatic  and  fully  auto- 
matic tests.  (1)  Average  time  per  test  for  52,000  field  test  measurements  in  20 
offices  under  normal  operating  test  conditions  (includes  test  preparation,  time 
waiting  to  be  served,  testing  time,  and  recording  of  results).  (2)  Average  time  j)er 
test  for  test  measurements  made  in  rapid  sequence  during  light  load  period.  The 
semi-automatic  code  104  test  includes  a  noise  check  at  the  far  end  only. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  931 

the  test  call  and  making  operational  tests  on  the  intertoll  trunks.  For 
automatic  transmission  tests  an  automatic  transmission  test  and  control 
circuit,  provided  in  a  separate  frame  as  an  adjunct  to  the  test  frame,  is 
brought  into  play.  A  Teletypewriter,  mounted  in  the  transmission  test 
frame,  is  adapted  for  use  with  the  equipment  in  the  originating  office  for 
recording  test  results.  The  Teletypewriter  is  used  to  make  a  record  of 
trunks  having  some  defect  in  their  operational  features,  busy  trunks 
passed  over  without  test  and,  during  transmission  tests,  to  record  the 
results  of  the  transmission  measurements.  The  test  frame  and  associated 
transmission  test  and  control  circuit  and  Teletypewriter  are  used  prin- 
cipally by  the  toll  test  board  forces  and,  therefore,  are  usually  located 
near  the  toll  test  board.  Figure  3  shows  such  an  installation. 

The  intertoll  trunk  test  connector  frames  in  the  originating  office,  not 
shown  in  Fig.  3,  are  frames  of  crossbar  switches  and  there  may  be  several 
such  frames  in  a  large  office.  Each  crosspoint  on  the  switches  of  the  test 
connector  frames  represents  an  individual  intertoll  trunk.  When  a  trunk 
is  to  be  tested,  the  test  frame  closes  the  crosspoint  of  the  test  connector 
switches  which  serves  that  particular  trunk.  This  extends  the  selecting 
leads  (trunk  sleeve  and  select  magnet  leads)  of  the  trunk  to  the  test 
frame  for  use  in  setting  up  the  call.  A  class  contact  on  the  test  connector 
crosspoint  also  operates  one  of  several  class  relays  in  the  test  frame  when 
the  crosspoint  is  closed.  The  function  of  the  class  relay  is  discussed  later. 

The  test  frame  has  an  appearance  on  the  incoming  link  frame  of  the 
office  switching  train.  The  intertoll  trunks  to  be  tested  appear  on  the 
outgoing  link  frames  of  the  office  switching  train.  When  a  trunk  is  to  be 
tested,  the  test  frame  engages  the  office  common  control  equipment  (de- 
coder and  marker) ,  through  a  connector,  and  requests  a  path  between  the 
test  frame  appearance  on  the  incoming  link  frame  and  the  particular  in- 
tertoll trunk  which  is  to  be  tested.  The  common  control  ecjuipment  is 
able  to  set  up  this  path  since  the  test  frame  has  closed  a  test  connector 
cross-point  to  bring  the  selecting  leads  of  the  trunk  to  be  tested  into  the 
test  frame.  The  common  control  equipment  uses  the  select  magnet  lead 
to  identify  the  trunk  to  l)e  tested  and  thus  is  able  to  set  up  the  path  to 
that  particular  trunk.  The  test  frame  uses  the  trunk  sleeve  lead  for  busy 
test  purposes  and  for  controlling  the  test  call. 

In  the  distant  offices  separate  groups  of  test  lines  provide  automatic 
test  terminations  for  operational  and  transmission  tests,  respectively. 
These  are  reached  through  the  switching  train  as  indicated  in  Fig.  2.  The 
three  digit  service  code  103  is  reserved  in  toll  switching  offices  for  i-each- 
ing  the  operational  test  lines  and  code  104  is  reserved  for  reaching  the 
transmission  test  lines.  A  transmission  measuring  and  noise  checking 


z 

O  O  liJ  ,« 


(0"3 


"  o 


Q 

Z 
OJ 

ir 
< 

a. 
o 

III 
o 

u. 

IL 

o 

z 

< 

Z 

UJ 


rr 

<n 

o 

UJ 

U- 

1- 

■"i- 

/  o 

III 

o 

"" 

z 

in 

LU 
Q 

_l 

fl 

> 

1  ) 

1- 

(CI 

(/1 

T 

UJ 

1- 

< 

I    I 


fM 


T  T  I 


o 

UJ  z  _ 

u.  t  F 


o 


>5h 
^  <-iz 

£  >  UJ  UJ 

O  (\J  v-  9: 
y       Z3 

~  O  cr  lu 


u5-iz 

Z  5  UJ  UJ 
O  (vJvtrO: 

Bgfs 


Q 

z 

LU 

CC 
< 

lU 

z 

q: 
o 

UJ 

o 

IL 
U- 
O 

o 

z 

z 
(J 
q: 
o 


UJ  S  z 

rr  u  < 
05"- 


<  _i 


>UJ 

uJz 
UJ^J 

-■  < 


tru 

_IZ 

ou 

I- 

UJlO 
I-  UJ 
ZK 


o 


Icn 


^?P1^^ 


ot£uj|a 
iozj 


m 

ID 


03 


3 
c3 

(I 
O 
t-i 

+3 

c 

a 

f-r 


bC 


Jl 


3  < 

a  -J 
I-  o 


y^-- 


|-<n"-J, 

i-z<o^£ 

<  O;  I- 


CC  UJO 
UJ  ^  t- 

Qo:  o 
o  2  z 

UJ  Z 

Q  CC  O 

00 


cr  !z 

LU  D 
HO 

^    I 

UJO 

y-ij 


a. 

rr 

UJ 

III 

Q 

IT 

v 

U 

0 

or 

0 

< 

UJ 
Q 

5 

088S 


932 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS 


933 


Fig.  3  —  Automatic  intertoll  trunk  testing  equipment. 


circuit,  sometimes  referred  to  as  "far  end  equipment,"  is  associated 
with  the  group  of  code  104  test  lines  for  performing  the  transmission 
measurements.  When  simultaneous  transmission  test  calls  arrive  in  the 
distant  office  from  different  originating  offices,  the  calls  wait  on  the 
code  104  test  lines  and  are  served  by  the  transmission  measuring  and 
noise  checking  circuit,  one  at  a  time,  in  their  proper  turn. 

After  the  trunk  test  frame  has  obtained  a  path  through  the  switching 
train  in  the  originating  office  to  the  trunk  to  be  tested  as  explained 
above,  it  pulses  forward  over  the  trunk  the  desired  test  line  code,  either 
code  103  or  code  104.  In  response  to  the  code,  the  switching  equipment 
in  the  distant  office  sets  up  a  path  through  the  switching  train  to  one  of 


934  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1950 

the  code  103  or  oode  104  test  lines.  A  steady  off-hook  signal  is  returned 
over  the  established  connection  to  the  test  frame  at  the  originating  office 
to  indicate  that  the  test  may  proceed. 

The  process  of  setting  up  a  test  call,  as  described  above,  simulates 
very  closely  the  procedures  followed  in  setting  up  a  normal  call  from  an 
incoming  trunk  in  the  originating  office  to  a  desired  number  in  the 
distant  office.  Therefore,  any  irregularities  in  the  operational  features 
while  setting  up  the  test  call  will  be  detected  by  the  test  frame  and  will 
result  in  appropriate  trouble  indication  at  the  test  frame  at  the  originat- 
ing end. 

The  automatic  testing  arrangements  aaIU  operate  with  offices  where 
terminating  calls  are  switched  either  on  a  terminal  net  loss  (TNL)  or 
on  a  via  net  loss  (VNL)  basis.  This  is  done  by  including  appropriate 
pads  for  use  at  VNL  offices. 

FEATURES  OF  INTERTOLL  TRUNK  TEST  FRAME 

Control  of  Test  Connector 

When  the  trunk  test  frame  is  put  into  operation,  it  closes  the  first 
crosspoint  of  the  first  test  connector  crossbar  switch  on  the  test  con- 
nector frames  to  prepare  for  testing  the  first  trunk  in  the  test  sequence. 
When  the  trunk  test  is  completed,  the  test  frame  advances  to  the  next 
crosspoint  for  testing  the  next  trunk.  This  progression  continues  through 
all  the  test  connector  frames  until  all  intertoll  trunks  in  the  office  have 
been  tested.  The  test  frame  stops  when  the  test  cycle  is  completed.  Par- 
ticular circuit  selection  keys  are  provided  on  the  test  frame  so  that  the 
test  connector  can  be  directed  manually  to  any  point  for  testing  an 
individual  trunk  or  for  starting  a  test  cycle  at  some  intermediate  point 
in  the  test  sequence,  rather  than  with  the  first  trunk.  As  the  test  frame 
progresses  through  a  test  cycle,  it  also  displays  on  lamps  a  4-digit  "trunk 
identification  number"  corresponding  to  the  test  connector  crosspoint 
which  is  closed.  When  a  trouble  is  encountered,  the  attendant  uses  this 
4-digit  luimber  to  identify  the  trunk  being  tested  as  a  particular  trunk 
to  a  particular  destination.  The  Teletypewriter  prints  the  trunk  identifi- 
cation number  as  a  part  of  each  trunk  test  record. 

Busy  Test 

Before  starting  a  test,  the  test  frame  tests  the  trunk  sleeve  lead  for 
busy.  If  the  trunk  is  busy,  the  test  frame  waits  for  the  trunk  to  become 
idle.  A  "pass  busy"  key  is  provided  which,  when  operated,  cancels  the 
waiting  period  and  causes  the  test  frame  to  immediately  pass  over  busy 


AUTOMATIC    TESTING    OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  935 

trunks  to  save  time.  The  circuits  are  arranged  so  that,  if  desired,  the  Tele- 
typewriter may  print  a  record  of  busy  trunks  passed  over  without  test. 
By  means  of  a  timing  key  this  record  can  be  delayed  two  minutes  or  four 
minutes  to  wait  for  the  trunk  to  become  idle.  This  is  used  when  it  is 
preferable  to  wait  a  reasonable  time  for  trunks  to  become  idle  to  secure 
tests  on  a  larger  proportion  of  the  trunks. 

Trunk  Classes 

A  class  relay,  operated  by  a  contact  on  the  test  connector  crosspoint 
as  previously  mentioned,  indicates  to  the  test  frame  the  type  of  trunk 
being  tested  so  that  it  can  properly  handle  the  test  call.  There  are  33  of 
these  relays.  A  flexible  cross-connection  in  the  path  of  the  class  contact 
on  each  test  connector  crosspoint  permits  each  crosspoint  to  be  assigned 
to  the  particular  one  of  the  33  class  relays  which  represent  the  charac- 
teristics of  the  intertoll  trunk  associated  with  that  crosspoint.  Twenty- 
eight  of  the  class  relays  are  used  in  connection  with  trunks  on  which  auto- 
matic transmission  tests  are  made  and  indicate,  among  other  things,  the 
specified  loss  of  the  trunk  being  tested.  These  relays  are  provided  in  such 
a  manner  that,  for  any  trunk,  a  class  can  be  chosen  w^hich  agrees  with  the 
specified  loss  of  the  trunk  to  within  ±0.1  db  over  the  range  3.8  db  to  12.1 
db.  The  specified  loss  is  used  by  the  automatic  transmission  test  and 
control  circuit  when  computing  the  deviation  of  the  measured  loss  from 
the  specified  value,  as  covered  later. 

Test  Cycles 

The  test  frame  may  be  set  up  by  means  of  control  keys  to  perform 
^'arious  kinds  of  test  cycles.  Some  of  these  test  cycles, are  described 
briefly  below. 

Code  103  Tests.  A  complete  check  is  made  of  all  the  circuit  operating 
features  including  the  ringing  and  the  supervisory  features  while  the 
connection  is  established.  If  this  test  is  passed  successfully,  one  may 
assume  that  the  intertoll  trunk  circuit  and  the  associated  signaling  chan- 
nel will  properly  handle  normal  calls  although  this  does  not  prove  that 
the  transmission  performance  is  satisfactory. 

Signaling  Channel  Tests.  This  is  an  abbreviated  code  103  test  to  verify 
the  integrity  of  the  trunk  and  its  signaling  channel.  It  can  be  made  quite 
rapidly  and  is  useful  for  checking  the  correctness  of  patching  after  daj'' 
and  night  circuit  layout  changes. 

Pass  Idle  Test.  This  is  a  test  cycle  which  may  be  I'un  occasionally 
during  a  very  light  load  period  to  detect  trunks  which  may  l)e  falsely 
busy. 


936  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

Repeat-2  Tests.  This  consists  essentially  of  two  code  103  tests  on  the 
same  trunk  in  rapid  succession.  It  is  used  to  insure  that  a  connection 
through  the  switching  train  in  the  distant  office  will  be  properly  broken 
down  when  a  call  is  completed. 

Repeat  Test.  A  "repeat  test"  key  on  the  test  frame  cancels  the  advance 
of  the  intertoll  trunk  test  connector.  Since  the  test  frame  cannot  then 
advance  to  the  next  test  connector  crosspoint,  it  tests  the  same  trunk 
repeatedly.  This  is  useful  for  verifying  a  trouble  condition  and  for  de- 
tecting an  intermittent  trouble,  or  for  obtaining  data  on  stability  versus 
time. 

Manual  Tests.  When  the  test  frame  is  set  up  for  making  manual  tests, 
it  engages  the  office  common  control  equipment  to  set  up  a  path  through 
the  switching  train  to  the  trunk  to  be  tested  but  does  not  pulse  forward 
code  103  or  104.  Instead  the  attendant  can  pulse  forward  the  proper 
code  to  reach  the  toll  test  board  at  the  distant  end.  This  permits  dial 
type  trunks  to  distant  offices,  not  equipped  with  test  lines,  to  be  tested 
manualh^ 

Code  104  Tests.  A  3-position  key  controls  transmission  testing.  When 
the  key  is  normal,  the  test  frame  makes  operational  tests.  When  the  key 
is  operated  to  the  transmission  and  noise  position,  a  two-way  transmis- 
sion loss  measurement  is  made  and  is  followed  by  a  noise  check  at  each 
end  of  the  trunk.  When  the  key  is  operated  to  the  transmission  only 
position  the  noise  checks  are  omitted.  The  latter  position  is  used  when 
it  is  permissible  to  omit  the  noise  checks  to  save  time.  When  making  code 
104  tests,  the  test  frame  sets  up  and  breaks  down  the  test  connection  in 
the  same  way  as  when  making  code  103  tests  and,  while  the  connection 
is  established,  it  receives  supervisory  signals  from  the  far  end.  Thus 
most  of  the  trunk  operating  features,  except  for  ringing,  are  also  checked 
as  an  incidental  part  of  the  transmission  test.  Irregularities  in  the  circuit 
operating  features  can  result  in  a  trouble  indication  in  the  same  way  as 
when  making  operational  tests. 

Trouble  Indications 

During  a  test,  progress  lamps  display  the  progress  of  the  test  call  and, 
when  trouble  is  detected,  one  of  a  number  of  trouble  indicating  lamps 
may  also  be  lighted.  The  progress  and  trouble  indicating  lamps  indicate 
the  general  nature  of  the  trouble. 

When  the  Teletypewriter  is  not  in  operation,  a  trouble  indication 
causes  the  test  frame  to  stop,  to  hold  the  trunk  busy  and  to  sound  an 
alarm  while  awaiting  the  attention  of  the  attendant.  It  is  the  usual 
practice  for  the  attendant  to  make  a  repeat  test  on  the  same  trunk  to 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  937 

verify  the  trouble  condition.  He  notes  the  nature  of  the  trouble  from 
the  progress  and  trouble  indicating  lamps  and  then  causes  the  test 
frame  to  resume  testing  by  advancing  it  to  the  next  trunk  with  a  manual 
advance  key. 

When  the  associated  Teletypewriter  is  provided  and  operating,  it  is  not 
always  necessary  to  sound  an  alarm  and  thus  interrupt  the  regular  work 
of  the  attendant.  Instead  the  Teletypewriter  may  print  a  trouble  record. 
For  this  purpose  troubles  are  grouped  into  18  categories.  When  a  trouble 
is  detected,  the  Teletypewriter  prints  a  record  of  the  trunk  identification 
number  together  with  a  letter  in  a  separate  column  indicating  one  of 
these  categories.  The  test  frame  then  usually  makes  a  repeat  test  on  the 
same  trunk  to  verify  the  trouble  except  when  the  connection  must  be 
held,  as  discussed  later.  If  the  second  test  is  satisfactory,  the  trouble  was 
of  a  transient  nature  and  the  test  frame  resumes  testing,  leaving  a  single 
line  trouble  record  on  the  Teletype  tape.  If  the  trouble  is  still  present  on 
the  second  trial,  a  second  record  is  printed  on  the  next  line  for  the  same 
trunk. 

If  the  nature  of  the  trouble,  as  indicated  by  its  category,  is  such  as  to 
render  the  trunk  unfit  for  service,  the  test  frame  will  stop  after  the  second 
trial,  hold  the  trunk  busy,  and  sound  an  alarm  to  attract  the  immediate 
attention  of  the  attendant.  If,  however,  the  trouble  is  of  a  minor  nature 
that  can  be  tolerated  temporarily,  the  test  frame  advances  automatically 
to  the  next  trunk  after  the  second  record  is  printed,  and  resumes  testing 
without  sounding  an  alarm.  By  periodic  inspection  of  the  Teletype  record 
the  attendant  can  note  those  trunks  needing  maintenance  attention  by 
means  of  the  double  line  trouble  records.  A  test  cycle  can  thus  be  com- 
pleted with  the  minimum  of  supervision  on  the  part  of  the  attendant. 

When  the  nature  of  a  trouble  is  such  that  its  identity  is  likely  to  be 
lost  if  the  original  connection  is  broken  down,  e.g.,  failure  of  a  holding 
ground,  the  test  frame  will  not  attempt  a  second  trial  but  stop,  hold  the 
trunk  busy,  and  sound  an  alarm.  Failure  to  complete  a  transmission  test 
satisfactorily  is  included  in  this  class  because  such  failures  can  be  due 
to  the  testing  equipment  itself. 

AUTOMATIC   TRANSMISSION   TESTS 

Basic  Scheme  of  Measurement 

An  automatic  transmission  loss  measurement  consists  essentially  of 
adjusting  the  loss  of  a  pad  at  the  receiving  end  of  the  trunk  to  bring  the 
test  power  level  at  the  pad  output  to  a  fixed  value.  A  functional  diagram 
of  the  arrangement  is  shown  in  Fig.  4. 


938  THE   B?:LL   system   TECHXICAL  journal,   JULY    1956 

The  standard  one  milliwatt  source  of  test  power  is  used  at  the  sending 
end.  The  receiving  end  includes  an  amplifier,  a  set  of  adjustable  resistance 
pads  which  are  relay  controlled  and  an  amplifier-rectifier  with  a  measur- 
ing relay  (m)  in  its  output  circuit.  Relay  (m)  is  a  polarized  relay  of  a 
type  widely  used  in  the  telephone  plant. 

The  amplifier  has  a  fixed  gain  of  19.9  db  and  it  includes  considerable 
negative  feedback  so  that  its  gain  is  constant.  The  pad  components  are 
precision  resistors  to  insure  accuracy. 

The  amplifier-rectifier  consists  of  a  two-stage  amplifier  followed  by  a 
rectifier  tube  and  a  detector  tube  for  controlling  relay  (m).  This  circuit  is 
designed  so  that  the  margin  between  the  input  power  which  will  hold 
relay  (m)  operated  and  the  input  power  which  will  insure  that  relay  (m) 
will  release  is  less  than  0.1  db.  The  gain  is  adjusted,  by  means  of  a  poten- 
tiometer, so  that  relay  (m)  will  operate  when  the  test  power  level  at  the 
output  from  the  receiving  pads  in  Fig.  4  is  one  milliwatt  or  higher  and 
so  that  it  will  release  when  the  power  level  at  this  point  is  0.1  db  or  more 
below  one  milliwatt.  This  close  margin  between  operate  and  release 
permits  relay  (m)  to  be  used  as  an  accurate  measuring  device  with  a  pre- 
cision comparable  with  that  of  manual  transmission  measuring  equip- 
ment using  direct  reading  meters.  Negati^^e  feedback,  built  into  the 
amplifier  portion  of  the  amplifier-rectifier,  insures  gain  stability  and  the 
amplifier-rectifier  will  maintain  its  gain  adjustment  over  a  long  period. 

When  making  a  transmission  loss  measurement,  the  power  from  the 
sending  end  operates  relay  (m)  in  the  amplifier-rectifier.  The  loss  in  the 
receiving  pads  is  then  increased,  by  means  of  control  circuitry,  until  the 
power  level  at  their  output  is  reduced  to  one,  milliwatt.  In  making  this 
adjustment,  relay  (m)  is  used  as  the  power  level  indicating  device.  When 
this  adjustment  is  finished  the  trunk  loss  will  be 

Intertoll  Trunk  Loss  =  19.9  db  —  Receiving  Pad  Loss. 

Adjustment  of  Receiving  Pads 

The  receiving  pads,  shown  in  Fig.  4  consist  of  9  individual  pads 
having  losses  of  10,  5,  4,  2,  1,  0.5,  0.4,  0.2  and  0.1  db.  Each  pad  is  in- 
serted into  the  input  circuit  to  the  amplifier-rectifier  by  the  operation 
of  a  corresponding  pad  control  relay.  Adjustment  of  the  pad  loss  takes 
place  in  steps. 

When  relay  (m)  operates  on  arrival  of  the  test  power,  the  control 
circuit  operates  relay  10  to  insert  the  10  db  pad.  If  this  reduces  the  test 
power  level  at  the  output  from  receiving  pads  to  a  \'alue  below  one  milli- 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  939 

watt,  relay  (m)  in  the  amplifier-rectifiei-  will  release.  The  control  circuit 
then  releases  relay  10  also  to  remove  the  10  db  pad  before  it  proceeds 
to  the  next  step.  If  the  test  power  level  remains  one  milliwatt  or  higher 
after  the  10  db  pad  is  inserted,  relay  (m)  remains  operated.  The  control 
circuit  then  locks  relay  10  in  its  operated  position  to  retain  the  10  db 
pad  before  it  proceeds  to  the  next  step.  In  the  next  step,  pad  control 
relay  5  is  operated  to  insert  the  5  db  receiving  pad.  The  5  db  receiving  pad 
will  then  be  rejected  or  retained,  as  described  above,  depending  upon 
which  position  relay  (m)  takes  after  the  5  db  pad  is  inserted.  This 
process  continues  until  all  9  individual  receiving  pads  have  been  tried  in 
descending  order  ending  with  the  0.1  db  pad.  When  this  process  is  com- 
pleted, the  combination  of  the  9  pad  control  relays  which  remain  locked 
in  the  operated  position  determines,  additively,  the  receiving  pad  loss 
and  consequently,  this  combination  is  related  directly  to  the  trunk  loss. 
At  the  originating  or  control  end  this  combination  of  operated  relays  will 
be  translated  to  the  measured  loss  of  the  intertoll  trunk  being  tested, 
when  the  results  of  the  measurement  are  recorded.  The  method  of  trans- 
mitting the  measured  loss  from  the  far  end  to  the  originating  end  is 
discussed  later. 

The  transmitting  and  check  pads  shown  in  Fig.  4  are  a  separate  set 
of  pads  also  controlled  by  the  pad  control  relays.  At  the  start  of  the  test 
the  total  loss  in  these  pads  is  19.9  db.  Whenever  a  pad  control  relay 
operates  to  insert  a  receiving  pad,  it  removes  an  equal  loss  from  the 
transmitting  pads.  Therefore,  when  the  receiving  pad  adjustment  is 
finished,  the  loss  remaining  in  the  transmitting  pads  will  be  equal  to  the 
loss  of  the  trunk.  Also,  the  sum  of  the  losses  in  the  two  sets  of  pads  is 
always  19.9  db  regardless  of  the  trunk  loss  being  measured,  provided  all 
pad  components  and  all  pad  control  relay  contacts  are  in  perfect  order. 
This  condition  permits  a  precise  accuracy  check  to  be  made,  as  discussed 
later. 

Whenever  the  control  circuit  leaves  pad  control  relay  4  or  0.4  in  its 
operated  position  to  retain  the  4  db  or  0.4  db  pad,  the  subsequent  2  db 
and  1  db  or  0.2  db  and  0.1  db  pad  control  relays  are  disabled.  There  will 
will  then  be  no  action  as  the  control  circuit  passes  through  the  2  db  and 
1  db  or  the  0.2  db  and  0.1  db  steps.  This  limits  the  maximum  receiving 
pad  loss  to  19.9  db,  which  is  the  maximum  range  of  the  automatic  meas- 
urement. This  range  amply  covers  the  range  of  losses  of  intertoll  trunks 
in  a  usable  condition.  Loss  measurements  attempted  outside  the  range 
of  0  to  19.9  db  will  cause  failure  of  the  built-in  checks,  mentioned  later, 
and  will  result  in  an  alarm  at  the  control  end  of  the  trvuik. 


o 

z 
ai 

z 


ai 
o 

UJ 

a. 


(/I 

Q 

Q-  a 

Xffl 


a 

0) 


o 

CO 


CO 

c 


+3 

08 


02 


Tin 

.  ti 

s 


<      Q- 

5     a. 

"^ 

\Iit-? 

c^ 

A I^  in  in 

y  —  UJ 

, • 

^5hQ: 

UJ 

UJ     5 

S    o 

O       Q. 

940 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  941 

Accuracy  Checks 

If  the  receiving  pad  adjustment  has  been  successful,  the  power  level 
at  the  pad  output  will  be  very  close  to  one  milliwatt  and  the  measuring 
relay  (m)  will  be  just  on  the  verge  of  moving  from  its  front  to  its  back 
contact,  or  vice  versa.  Errors  may  creep  in,  however,  to  prevent  these 
things  from  being  true.  Some  such  sources  of  error  are: 

(1)  One  or  more  of  the  pad  control  relays  might  fail  to  lock  in  the 
operated  position  when  they  should,  or  fail  to  release  when  they  should. 
It  would  then  be  impossible  to  adjust  the  total  receiving  pad  loss  to  the 
correct  value. 

(2)  The  trunk  loss  might  change  suddenly  while  the  pad  adjustment 
is  in  progress  and  make  it  impossible,  with  the  pads  remaining  to  be 
tried,  to  bring  the  power  level  at  the  pad  output  to  one  milliwatt. 

(3)  The  amplifier  or  amplifier-rectifier  gains  might  increase  or  de- 
crease due  to  a  defective  component. 

(4)  The  milliwatt  test  power  supply  might  deviate  from  the  standard 
value. 

(5)  Defective  components  or  faulty  control  relay  contacts  might  cause 
the  individual  pad  losses  to  be  incorrect. 

To  detect  errors  of  the  type  in  items  (1)  and  (2)  a  "trunk  check"  is 
made  immediately  after  the  pad  adjustment  is  finished.  Referring  to 
Fig.  4,  two  0.5  db  pads,  a  and  b,  are  provided  in  the  input  circuit  to  the 
amplifier-rectifier,  pad  a  being  normally  out.  Before  the  sending  end  re- 
moves the  test  power,  pad  a  is  inserted,  momentarily.  The  resulting 
decrease  in  input  power  to  the  amplifier-rectifier  should  cause  relay  (m) 
to  release.  Both  pads  a  and  b  are  then  cut  out.  The  resulting  increase  in 
input  power  should  cause  relay  (m)  to  operate.  If  relay  (m)  fails  to  pass 
either  of  these  checks  the  receiving  pad  loss  is  in  error  by  0.5  db  or  more 
and  another  trial  is  needed  to  secure  a  more  accurate  adjustment.  Pre- 
mature removal  of  the  test  power  at  the  sending  end  would,  of  course, 
cause  relay  (m)  to  fail  on  the  second  check  and  result  in  another  trial. 

Immediately  after  the  trunk  check  and  while  pad  b  is  still  cut  out,  the 
receiving  end  rearranges  its  circuit  locally  as  shown  in  Fig.  5  for  a  "loop 
check"  to  guard  against  errors  of  the  types  mentioned  in  items  (3),  (4) 
and  (5)  above.  This  rearrangement  inserts  a  0.3  db  pad  in  place  of  the 
0.5  db  pad  b,  which  is  cut  out.  The  local  milliwatt  supply  then  applies 
power  to  the  amplifier-rectifier  at  a  level  about  0.2  db  higher  than 
necessary  to  operate  relay  (m)  .  Relay  (m)  will  fail  to  operate  and  pass 
this  check  if  the  combined  effect  of  any  decrease  in  the  value  of  the  milli- 
watt test  power  supply,  any  decrease  in  the  amplifier  and  the  amplifier- 
rectifier  gains  and  cumulative  errors  in  the  receiving  pads  and  check 
pads  adds  more  than  0.2  db  loss.  After  the  above  check,  a  0.5  db  loss  is 


942 


THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    195G 


added  in  the  looped  circuit.  This  reduces  the  input  power  to  the  ampli- 
fier-rectifier about  0.2  db  below  that  which  causes  relay  (m)  to  release. 
Relay  (m)  will  remain  operated  and  fail  to  pass  this  check  if  the  com- 
bined effect  of  increases  in  the  milliwatt  test  power  supply  or  amplifier 
and  amplifier-rectifier  gains  and  cumulative  errors  in  the  pads  exceeds 
0.2  db  gain.  By  means  of  the  loop  check  the  maintenance  forces  will  be 
notified  whenever  the  measuring  equipment  drifts  more  than  ±0.2  db 
from  the  initially  calibrated  setting. 

After  the  loop  check  the  receixing  end  restores  its  circuit  to  the 
original  connections  shown  in  Fig.  4  and  by  means  of  relays  not  shown, 
cuts  out  all  of  the  receiving  pad  loss.  Relay  (m)  then  reoperates.  The 
circuit  I'ests  in  this  condition  to  await  the  removal  of  the  test  power  at 
the  sending  end. 

When  the  sending  end  removes  the  test  power,  relay  (m)  releases.  If 
all  accuracy  checks  have  been  passed  successfully,  the  receiving  end  then 
prepares  for  the  next  phase  of  the  test.  If,  however,  the  accuracy  checks 
failed  in  any  respect,  the  receiving  end  restores  its  circuit  to  the  original 
condition  at  the  start  of  the  measurement  and  returns  a  signal  to  the 
sending  end  to  request  reconnection  of  the  test  power  for  another  trial. 

Intertoll  Trunk  Loss  Measurement  and  Noise  Check 

An  intertoll  trunk  loss  measurement  consists  of  two  successive  one-way 
measurements,  as  described  above,  one  for  each  direction  of  transmis- 
sion. The  transmission  test  call  is  set  up  to  one  of  the  code  104  test  lines 
in  the  distant  office.  If  the  transmission  measuring  and  noise  checking 
circuit  at  the  far  end  is  already  engaged  because  another  call  arrived 


CONNECTION 

DURING 

MEASUREMENT 

AND 
TRUNK    CHECK 


CONNECTION 

DURING 
LOOP    CHECK 


19.9  DB 
GAIN 


RECEIVING 
PADS 


^VW 


19.9  DB  MINUS 
TRUNK    LOSS 


TRANSMITTING 
PADS 

V/v 


EQUALS 
TRUNK  LOSS 


TRUNK 
CHECK  PADS 


LOOP 
CHECK  PADS 


ONE  MILLIWATT 

TEST 
POWER  SUPPLY 


Fig.  5  —  Arrangement  for  loop  check. 


AUTOMATIC    TESTING    OF    INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  943 

just  previously  from  some  other  originating  office,  this  call  waits  on  the 
test  line.  When  the  transmission  measuring  and  noise  checking  circuit 
is  ready  to  serve  this  call,  it  connects  to  the  test  line  on  which  this  call 
is  waiting  and  then  returns  a  steady  off -hook  signal  to  the  originating  end. 
This  notifies  the  originating  end  that  the  transmission  test  may  begin. 

The  philosophy  of  a  two-way  transmission  measurement  is  as  follows. 
The  near  end  sends  test  power  over  the  trunk  and  the  far  end  measures 
the  loss  as  previously  described.  In  this  process  the  loss  of  the  trans- 
mitting pad  at  the  far  end  is  adjusted  to  a  value  equal  to  the  trunk  loss 
in  the  near  to  far  direction.  The  far  end  then  returns  test  power,  first 
directly  over  the  trunk  and  next,  through  the  transmitting  pad.  The 
power  levels  received  at  the  near  end  are  a  measure  of  first,  the  trunk 
loss  in  the  far  to  near  direction  and  next,  the  sum  of  the  losses  in  the  two 
directions.  Measurement  of  these  levels  provides  data  for  recording  the 
loss  in  each  direction  at  the  near  end. 

The  two-way  transmission  measurement  takes  place  in  four  steps  as 
shown  in  Fig.  6.  These  steps  are  described  below. 

Slevl 

The  near  end  sends  one  milliwatt  and  the  far  end  adjusts  its  pads  and 
checks  the  measurement.  After  about  3  seconds  the  near  end  removes 
the  test  power  and  then  pauses  for  a  short  interval  to  wait  for  a  signal 
denoting  whether  or  not  the  accuracy  tests  were  successful. 

If  they  were  unsuccessful,  the  far  end  will  restore  itself  to  the  condi- 
tion prevailing  at  the  start  of  Step  1  and  will  also  return  a  short  (about 
3^2  second)  on-hook  signal  to  the  near  end.  The  near  end  then  reconnects 
the  test  power  for  three  seconds  for  another  trial.  The  test  frame  at  the 
near  end  stops  and  sounds  an  alarm  after  a  third  unsuccessful  trial. 

If  the  far  end  is  successful  in  any  one  of  the  first  three  trials,  an  on-hook 
signal  will  not  be  returned  to  the  near  end  when  the  test  power  is  re- 
moved. The  near  end,  after  the  short  pause,  then  sends  a  short  spurt  of 
test  power  which  reoperates  the  measuring  relay  at  the  far  end.  This 
signal  at  the  far  end,  after  a  successful  Step  1,  indicates  to  the  far  end 
that  this  is  a  full  automatic  test. 

Step  2 

For  Step  2  the  near  end  connects  a  far-near  amplifier,  a  set  of  far-near 
receiving  pads  and  an  amplifier-rectifier.  The  far  end  disconnects  its 
receiving  eciuipment  and  returns  one  milliwatt  over  the  trunk.  The  far- 
near  receiving  pads  at  the  near  end  are  now  inserted  in  the  proper  com- 


944  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

bination  to  reduce  the  power  level  at  their  output  to  one  milliwatt.  The 
combination  of  the  nine  far-near  pad  control  relays  remaining  operated 
after  the  adjustment  is  finished  will  be  translated  later  to  measured  loss 
of  the  intertoll  trunk  in  the  far  to  near  direction.  After  about  3  seconds 
the  far  end  removes  the  test  power  and  pauses  for  a  short  interval.  This 
completes  Step  2.  Each  end  then  prepares  for  Step  3. 

Steps 

For  Step  3  the  near  end  retains  the  far-near  amplifier  and  the  setting 
of  the  far-near  receiving  pads  and  adds  a  near-far  amplifier  and  a  set  of 
near-far  receiving  pads  in  tandem  in  the  input  circuit  to  the  amplifier- 
rectifier.  The  far  end,  after  the  short  pause,  again  sends  one  milliwatt 
but  this  time  it  sends  through  the  transmitting  pad  which  was  adjusted 
in  Step  1  to  represent  the  near-to-far  trunk  loss.  The  near-far  receiving 
pads  at  the  near  end  are  now  automatically  arranged  to  reduce  the  power 
level  at  their  output  to  one  milliwatt. 

In  the  adjustment  of  Step  2  the  over-all  loss,  including  the  trunk  in 
the  far-to-near  direction,  the  far-near  amplifier  and  the  far-near  receiv- 
ing pads,  was  made  0  db.  Consequently,  the  net  loss  being  measured  in 
Step  3  is  simply  that  of  the  transmitting  pad  at  the  far  end,  which  is  the 
same  as  the  trunk  loss  in  the  near-to-far  direction.  Therefore  the  com- 
bination of  the  9  near-far  pad  control  relays  remaining  operated  after 
Step  3  is  finished  can  be  translated  to  measured  loss  of  the  intertoll  trunk 
in  the  near-to-far  direction.  After  about  3  seconds  the  far  end  will  re- 
move the  test  power  to  complete  Step  3  and  it  will  then  pause  for  a  short 
interval  before  proceeding  with  Step  4. 

At  the  near  end  there  are  also  two  sets  of  check  pads,  not  shown,  which 
are  associated  with  the  far-near  and  near-far  receiving  pads,  respectively, 
as  indicated  in  Fig.  4.  During  Step  2  and  Step  3  the  near  end  makes  the 
trunk  check  previously  described  to  verify  the  accuracy  of  the  pad  loss 
settings  and,  in  addition,  in  Step  3,  rearranges  its  circuit  in  the  manner 
shown  in  Fig.  5  for  the  loop  check.  Thus  at  the  near  end  the  two  sets  of 
check  pads,  the  far-near  and  near-far  amplifiers,  and  the  two  sets  of 
receiving  pads  are  all  connected  in  tandem  for  the  loop  check. 

During  the  short  pause  following  Step  2  and  Step  3  the  far  end  re- 
connects its  amplifier  and  amplifier-rectifier  as  shown  for  Step  1  in 
Fig.  6.  If  the  near  end  is  unsuccessful  in  the  trunk  check  in  Step  2  or 
in  either  the  trunk  check  or  loop  check  in  Step  3,  it  will  restore  the 
circuit  to  the  original  condition  at  the  beginning  of  Step  2  and  will  also 
send  a  short  spurt  of  test  power  to  the  far  end  as  shown  for  Step  1  in 
Fig.  6.  This  reoperates  the  measuring  relay  (m)  at  the  far  end  momentar- 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL  TRUNKS  945 

ily.  The  far-end  then  repeats  Steps  2  and  3  for  another  trial.  The  test 
frame  at  the  near  end  will  stop  and  sound  an  alarm  after  a  third  unsuc- 
cessful attempt. 

If  the  trunk  loss  in  the  near-to-far  direction  exceeds  10  db,  the  loss  in 
the  transmitting  pad  at  the  far  end  will  exceed  10  db.  Under  this  condi- 
tion the  far  end  will,  prior  to  Step  3,  remove  10  db  loss  from  the  trans- 
mitting pad  to  increase  the  test  power  level  on  the  trunk.  This  is  done  to 
improve  the  test  power  level-to-noise  ratio  and  to  reduce  the  error  when 
measuring  losses  of  intertoll  trunks  having  apparatus  whose  loss  is  de- 
pendent on  signal  amplitude.  The  far  end  will  also  return  to  the  near 
end  a  short  on-hook  signal.  This  on-hook  signal  at  the  near  end,  just 
prior  to  Step  3,  is  an  "add  10"  signal  and  causes  the  near  end  to  add  10 
db  to  its  loss  measurement  in  Step  3,  to  compensate  for  the  loss  which 
Avas  removed  at  the  far  end. 

Immediately  after  Step  3,  if  the  transmission  test  control  key  on  the 
test  frame  is  in  the  transmission  only  position,  the  test  frame  will  cause 
the  teletypewriter  to  record  the  results  of  the  measurements  and  will 
then  break  down  the  connection  and  advance  to  the  next  trunk.  If  the 
transmission  test  control  key  is  in  the  transmission  and  noise  position,  the 
test  frame  will  wait  after  Step  3  for  each  end  to  complete  a  noise  check 
in  Step  4. 

816^4 

For  Step  4  the  near-end  removes  its  near-far  amplifier  and  the  near-far 
and  far-near  receiving  pads  and  increases  the  gain  of  the  amplifier-recti- 
fier for  a  noise  check  at  the  near-end.  Likewise,  the  far-end  removes  the 
receiving  pads  and  increases  the  gain  of  the  amplifier-rectifier  for  a  noise 
check  at  the  far  end.  Each  end  rests  in  this  condition  while  the  amplifier- 
rectifier  at  each  end  integrates  the  noise  voltage  over  a  5-second  interval. 
If  the  integrated  value  of  noise  voltage  at  either  end  exceeds  a  pre- 
determined value,  the  amplifier-rectifier  at  that  end  will  operate  measur- 
ing relay  (m)  in  its  output  which  causes  a  high  noise  condition  to  be 
registered  at  that  end.  If  neither  end  registers  a  high  noise  condition, 
the  test  call  proceeds  to  completion  without  a  noise  indication  being 
recorded  at  the  near  end. 

When  the  transmission  measuring  and  noise  checking  circuit  at  the 
far  end  completes  the  noise  check,  it  releases  itself  from  the  test  line  and 
is  then  free  to  serve  a  new  call  while  the  test  line  returns  an  on-hook 
signal  to  notify  the  originating  end  that  the  test  is  completed.  This  will 
be  either  a  steady  on-hook  signal  if  the  far  end  has  not  registered  a  high 


J, 

T 

T 

_l     ^ 

->  .0 

o^< 

^"z 

t 

^ 

1 

"J  a  fr 

t-^tn 

-£     ^ 

> 

> 

> 

=) 


3 


III 


u 

I- 
< 

o 

I- 

< 

LU 
CO 


Z 
UJ 


I-  D- 
<  ^ 

_i  en 
-J  m 

^1 

til  CL 
LU 


O 

>> 
UJ 

o 

UJ, 


10 

H  Q  CC 

5ujiu 


Ct  Z 

I 

< 

u. 


\ 


0. 
UJ 


« 


C\J 


Q. 
UJ 


940 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  947 

noise  condition,  or  a  120  TPM  flashing  signal  if  the  far-end  has  registered 
a  high  noise  condition.  The  near  end  is  thus  advised  of  the  results  of  the 
noise  check  at  the  far  end.  The  test  frame,  on  receipt  of  this  signal, 
causes  the  Teletypewriter  to  complete  the  record  and  then  breaks  down 
the  connection  and  advances  to  the  next  trunk. 

The  amplifier,  which  precedes  the  amplifier-rectifier  includes  a  net- 
work which  provides  FlA  noise  weighting  during  the  noise  check.  The 
amplifier-rectifier  is  adjusted  in  the  noise  checking  condition  (that  is, 
when  its  gain  is  increased)  so  that  a  noise  indication  will  be  given  when 
the  noise  exceeds  about  35  or  40  or  45  dba.  Since  this  test  is  intended 
only  as  a  rough  check  to  detect  any  abnormal  noise  condition,  the  noise 
rejection  limit  used  in  any  given  office  will  be  governed  by  the  types  of 
intertoll  trunk  facilities  terminating  in  that  office.  Xo  correction  is  made 
for  the  measured  loss  of  the  trunk  at  the  time  of  the  noise  check,  hence 
the  noise  is  checked  at  the  receiving  switchboard  level.  For  the  usual 
types  of  noise  the  results  of  the  noise  check  agree  roughly  with  those 
which  would  be  obtained  by  an  average  observer  using  a  2-B  Noise 
Measuring  Set  for  a  similar  "go-no  go"  type  of  check. 

As  is  evident  from  the  previous  description,  each  end  is  expected  to 
complete  the  various  steps  of  its  functions  within  allotted  time  intervals. 
Timing  intervals  at  the  far  end  ai'e  controlled  by  a  multivibrator  circuit. 
Timing  at  the  near  end  is  controlled  by  a  similar  multivibrator  in 
the  intertoll  trunk  test  frame.  To  insure  that  the  test  circuits  always 
perform  as  they  should  and  that  the  timing  circuits  are  functioning 
properl}^,  checks  are  built  into  the  circuits  so  that  anything  which  pre- 
vents the  successful  completion  of  a  2-way  measurement  on  schedule 
causes  the  automatic  outgoing  intertoll  trunk  test  frame  at  the  near  end 
to  stop,  hold  the  trunk  busy  and  sound  an  alarm  while  awaiting  attention 
of  the  attendant.  The  transmission  measuring  and  noise  checking  circuit 
at  the  far  end  will,  however,  release  itself  from  the  test  line  so  that  it  will 
be  free  to  handle  other  calls. 

Semi- Automatic  Test 

One-milliwatt  test  power  supply  outlets  ha\'e  been  provided  in  toll 
offices  for  some  time  for  making  a  one-way  transmission  measurement 
freciuently  referred  to  as  a  code  102  test.  A  test  board  attendant  can  reach 
the  one  milliwatt  test  power  supply  l)y  pulsing  forward  code  102  or  bj^ 
requesting  an  operator  at  the  distant  end  of  a  manual  trunk  for  a  con- 
nection. The  test  power  is  applied  at  the  distant  end  for  about  10  seconds 
diu-ing  which  time  the  attendant  measures  the  loss  in  the  receiving 
(far-to-near)  direction.  This  is  a  fairly  fast  semi-automatic  test  luit.  of 


948  THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

course,  has  the  disadvantage  that  it  is  a  one-way  test  and  cannot  be 
used  for  all  purposes. 

In  order  to  provide  a  semi-automatic  two-way  test,  the  far-end  equip- 
ment is  arranged  so  that  a  test  board  attendant  can  make  a  code  104 
measurement  unassisted.  This  measurement  is  carried  out  in  3  steps  as 
shown  in  the  lower  portion  of  Fig.  6. 

Step  1 

The  attendant  connects  a  test  cord  to  the  test  jack  of  the  intertoll 
trunk  and  pulses  forward  code  104  using  his  test  position  dial  or  key  set. 
When  the  far  end  is  ready,  it  returns  an  off-hook  signal  which  retires 
the  test  cord  supervisory  lamp.  He  then  connects  the  other  end  of  the 
cord  to  the  one  milliwatt  test  power  supply.  The  far  end  then  adjusts 
the  receiving  and  transmitting  pads  in  the  same  way  as  for  a  full  auto- 
matic test.  After  about  3  seconds  the  attendant  disconnects  the  test 
power  and  at  that  time  observes  the  cord  supervisory  lamp ;  a  single  flash 
indicates  that  the  far  end  was  unsuccessful  and  is  requesting  a  second 
trial.  If  the  supervisory  lamp  remains  steadily  dark  he  connects  the 
cord  to  the  receive  jack  of  his  transmission  measuring  circuit  to  prepare 
for  Step  2. 

Step  2 

The  far  end  will  pause  about  2  seconds  after  the  attendant  removes  the 
test  power  to  give  him  time  to  prepare  for  Step  2.  During  this  pause  the 
far  end  will  not  receive  a  short  spurt  of  test  power  as  in  the  case  of  a  full 
automatic  test.  Consequently,  after  the  2  second  interval  the  far  end 
will  return  one  milliwatt  for  10  seconds  on  a  semiautomatic  test  to  give 
the  attendant  time  to  complete  a  measurement.  The  received  power  is 
read  directly  on  the  meter  of  the  transmission  measuring  circuit  and  is 
the  loss  in  the  far-to-near  direction.  When  the  far  end  removes  the  test 
power,  the  meter  reading  drops  back  to  the  position  of  no  current  (in- 
finite loss)  and  at  that  time  the  attendant  observes  the  cord  lamp.  A 
single  flash  at  this  time  is  an  "add  10"  signal  and  indicates  that  10  db 
should  be  added  to  the  next  measurement.  A  steady  dark  lamp  indicates 
that  the  next  measurement  should  be  recorded  without  correction. 

Step  3 

After  about  2  seconds  delay  to  give  the  attendant  time  to  record  the 
first  measurement,  the  far  end  again  returns  1  milliwatt,  this  time 
through  the  transmitting  pad  set  up  in  Step  1 .  The  meter  now  reads  the 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  949 

loss  of  the  trunk  plus  the  loss  of  the  transmitting  pad  at  the  far  end. 
Since  the  transmitting  pad  loss  equals  the  trunk  loss  in  the  near-to-far 
direction,  the  difference  between  the  measurements  in  Step  3  and  Step  2 
is  the  trunk  loss  in  the  near-to-far  direction.  After  about  10  seconds  the 
far  end  removes  the  test  power  and  starts  the  noise  check  in  the  same 
way  as  if  this  were  a  full  automatic  test. 

When  the  far  end  removes  the  test  power  after  Step  3,  the  attendant 
leaves  the  connection  intact  until  the  cord  supervisory  lamp  lights  to 
indicate  completion  of  the  noise  check  at  the  far  end.  A  flashing  lamp 
indicates  that  the  noise  at  the  far  end  exceeds  the  prescribed  limit  and  a 
steadily  lighted  lamp  indicates  the  noise  at  the  far  end  is  below  this 
value.  A  noise  test  at  the  near  end  may  be  made  by  the  attendant  if  he 
judges,  after  a  listening  test,  that  a  noise  test  is  desirable.  For  this  test 
he  uses  the  standard  noise  measuring  equipment. 

PRESENTATION  OF  TEST  RESULTS 

When  making  operational  tests  and  a  Teletypewriter  is  not  being  used, 
troubles  are  registered  by  means  of  an  audible  alarm  and  accompanying 
display  lamps.  When  making  transmission  loss  measurements,  however, 
a  complete  record  of  the  measurements  on  all  trunks  tested,  both  good 
and  bad  is  frequently  needed.  A  Teletypewriter  then  becomes  a  practical 
necessity;  otherwise  the  attendant  would  be  required  to  supervise  the 
automatic  equipment  continuously  and  to  record,  from  a  lamp  display 
or  similar  indication,  the  results  of  each  measurement  as  it  was  made. 
Having  provided  the  Teletypewriter  for  transmission  testing,  its  ability 
to  print  letters  to  represent  trouble  indications  is  utilized  to  avoid  halt- 
ing the  progress  of  the  tests  when  operational  troubles  are  experienced, 
except  when  completely  inoperative  conditions  are  encountered. 

Computer  Circuit 

As  mentioned  earlier  intertoll  trunk  transmission  performance  is 
rated  in  terms  of  bias  and  distribution  grade  which  are  calculated  from 
the  deviations  of  the  measured  losses  of  the  intertoll  trunks  from  their 
specified  values.  For  such  calculations  the  maintenance  forces  are,  there- 
fore, more  interested  in  the  deviations  than  they  are  in  actual  measured 
losses.  Accordingly,  the  automatic  transmission  test  and  control  circuit 
at  the  near-end  has  a  computer  built  into  it  which  will  compute  the 
deviation  for  each  measurement  so  that  the  deviation  can  be  recorded 
by  the  Teletypewriter. 

The  computer  is  a  bi-quinary  relay  type  adder  similar  to  those  used 


950       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  195G 

for  other  purposes  in  the  telephone  plant,  for  example,  in  the  computer 
of  the  automatic  message  accounting  system.  It  obtains  the  specified  net 
loss  of  the  trunk  being  tested  from  the  class  relay  which  remains  operated 
throughout  the  test.  When  a  computation  is  to  be  made  of  the  deviation 
in  the  far-to-near  direction,  for  example,  the  control  circuit  extends  to 
the  adder  a  number  of  leads  from  the  contacts  of  the  far-near  pad  control 
relays.  Some  combination  of  the  9  far-near  pad  control  relays  remains 
operated  after  the  far-near  pad  adjustment  is  finished  and  therefore  some 
combination  of  the  leads  extended  to  the  adder  will  be  closed.  These 
leads  furnish  to  the  adder  the  measured  loss  of  the  intertoll  trunk  in  the 
far-to-near  direction.  The  adder  then  subtracts  the  specified  loss  from 
the  measured  loss  and  presents  the  answer  together  with  the  proper 
sign,  -|-  or  — ,  to  the  teletypewriter  for  a  printed  record.  The  deviation 
in  the  near-to-far  direction  is  computed  in  the  same  manner  by  extending 
corresponding  leads  from  the  near-far  pad  control  relays  to  the  adder 
at  the  proper  time. 

Deviation  Registers 

In  determining  bias  and  distribution  grade  by  the  method  discussed 
in  the  companion  article,*  the  deviations  from  specified  net  loss  are  cal- 
culated for  each  measurement.  These  deviations  are  grouped  together  in 
0.5  db  increments  from  +8  db  to  —8  db,  all  deviations  exceeding  +7.8 
db  or  —7.8  db  being  considered  as  -(-8.0  db  and  —8.0  db  respectively. 
For  example,  all  deviations  of  -|-0.3  db  to  -f-0.7  db,  inclusive  are  con- 
sidered to  be  -f  0.5  db  and  are  so  tallied  on  the  data,  or  stroke,  sheet. 

To  assist  in  this  work  the  automatic  test  equipment  includes  thirty- 
three  manually  resettable  counters  corresponding  to  the  0.5  db  incre- 
ments from  -f-8.0  db  to  —8.0  db  inclusive.  Just  prior  to  a  transmission 
test  cycle  all  these  counters  are  reset  to  zero.  At  the  time  a  deviation 
computation  is  made,  the  computer  also  causes  the  proper  counter  to 
register  one  count.  After  the  test  run  on  a  group  of  trunks,  the  counter 
readings  can  be  transcribed  directly  as  the  final  tally  on  the  stroke  sheet 
and  may  be  used  to  determine  the  bias  and  distribution  grade.  A  "total 
tests"  coimter  keeps  a  tally  of  all  the  computations.  At  the  end  of  the 
test  run  the  total  count  serves  as  a  check  of  the  total  count  of  the  other 
33  counters. 

Check  for  Excessive  Deviations 

In  addition  to  obtaining  data  for  the  calculation  of  bias  and  distribu- 
tion grade,  the  maintenance  forces  would  also  like  to  know  promptly 

*  H.  H.  Felder  and  E.  N.  Little,  Intertoll  Net  Loss  Maintenance  Under  Opera- 
tor Distance  and  Direct  Distance  Dialing,  page  955  of  this  issue. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF   INTERTOLL   TRUNKS  951 

when  the  loss  of  an  intertoll  trunk  deviates  an  abnormal  amount  from 
its  specified  value.  The  maintenance  practices  currently  require  that, 
Avhenever  an  intertoll  trimk  is  found  to  have  a  deviation  of  ±5  db  or 
more  in  either  direction,  the  trunk  should  be  removed  from  service  im- 
mediately and  the  cause  of  the  abnormal  deviation  corrected.  Accord- 
ingly, the  computer  circuit  includes  an  alarm  feature  which  sounds 
an  alarm  to  attract  the  immediate  attention  of  the  attendant  whenever 
the  computed  deviation  is  ±5.0  db  or  greater. 

The  maintenance  forces  may  also  like  to  know  promptly  about  trunks 
with  wide  deviations  but  which  are  not  so  bad  as  to  recjuire  immediate 
remo\-al  from  service.  For  this  purpose  the  computer  also  includes  a 
limit  checking  feature.  This  can  be  set,  by  means  of  optional  wiring,  to 
detect  deviations  in  excess  of  dz3.0  db,  dz4.0  db  or  ±5.0  db.  Whenever 
a  deviation  exceeds  the  limit  for  which  the  computer  is  wired,  this 
feature  performs  as  follows: 

(1)  When  the  Teletypewriter  is  not  in  operation  the  test  frame  stops 
and  sounds  an  alarm. 

(2)  When  the  Teletypewriter  is  recording  all  measurements,  the 
letter  U  is  added  in  a  separate  column  at  the  end  of  the  test  record.  The 
letter  stands  out  on  the  record  to  j^ermit  fiuick  spotting  of  trunks  wdth 
abnormal  deviations. 

(3)  By  means  of  a  control  key,  a  transmission  test  record  can  be 
printed  only  for  those  trunks  whose  deviation  exceeds  the  computer 
checking  limit  or  which  are  "noisy"  at  either  end. 

Teletypewriter  Record 

The  Teletypewriter  is  put  into  operation  by  means  of  a  key  on  the 
test  frame.  When  this  key  is  normal,  no  records  are  printed.  Under  this 
condition  a  trouble  causes  the  test  frame  to  stop  and  sound  an  alarm. 
When  the  Teletypewriter  is  operating  it  prints  various  records  and  a  mi- 
nor operational  trouble  may  result  only  in  a  record,  without  an  alarm. 
Each  record  occupies  a  separate  line  on  the  tape.  Each  line  starts  wdth  the 
four-digit  trunk  identification  number  in  the  first  column.  Fig.  7  shows  a 
short  specimen  of  the  the  Teletypewriter  record. 

When  the  pass  busy  key  on  the  test  frame  is  in  its  nonoperated  posi- 
tion, the  Teletypewriter  will  print  the  trunk  identification  number,  fol- 
lowed by  the  letter  B,  for  each  trunk  passed  over  without  test  because  it 
was  busy.  This  is  done  on  both  operational  and  transmission  test  cycles. 
When  the  pass  busy  key  is  operated  no  record  is  made  of  busy  trunks 
passed  without  test. 

During  operational  tests  no  record  is  printed  for  trunks  which  are 


952 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


satisfactory.  Troubles  during  either  operational  or  transmission  test 
cycles  result  in  a  record  of  the  trunk  identification  number  followed  by  a 
cue  letter  in  a  separate  column  denoting  the  nature  of  the  trouble.  This 
may  be  a  single  line  record  or  a  double  line  record  for  a  repeat  test  on  the 
same  trunk  as  previously  discussed.  For  example,  in  Fig.  7,  the  letter  Y 
in  the  second  line  indicates  that  on  trunk  1267  the  far  end  was  unable 
to  complete  its  transmission  measurement  successfully.  The  letter  A  in 
lines  3  and  4  indicates  that  the  test  frame  was  unable  to  establish  a  con- 
nection over  trunk  1293  on  either  its  first  or  second  attempt.  The  record 
of  transmission  tests  is  printed  in  several  columns.  Reading  from  left 
to  right  (see  Fig.  7)  these  are  (1)  trunk  identification  number,  (2)  speci- 
fied net  loss,  (3)  deviation  in  the  far-to-near  direction  together  with  the 
sign,  and  (4)  deviation  in  the  near-to-far  direction  together  with  the 
sign.  In  columns  2,  3,  and  4  the  decimal  points  are  omitted  and  the 
ten's  digits  are  omitted  when  they  are  zero  (0).  Column  5  will  contain 
an  N  if  the  far  end  is  "noisy"  or  the  letter  U  if  the  deviation  in  the  far-to- 
near  direction  exceeds  the  computer  check  limits,  preference  being  given 
to  N  if  both  conditions  occur  on  the  same  trunk.  Likewise  column  6 
contains  an  N  if  the  near  end  is  "noisy"  or  a  U  if  the  deviation  in  the 
near-to-far  direction  exceeds  the  computer  check  limits.  Transmission 
test  cycles  will,  of  course,  include  a  trouble  record  whenever  an  opera- 
tional trouble  is  encountered  or  whenever  the  transmission  test  cannot 
be  completed  successfully. 


z 
o 

3 

z 

h- 

O 

o 

g 

< 

Ul 

p 

1- 

1- 

(J 

;?!    <^ 

1- 

z 

a. 

< 

LL 

5    in 

a:o 

<  7 

> 

1- 

z 

UJ 
^  LU 

8  3 

cr 

1-       Q 

cr  y 

o    t 
>-    u 

<cr 

"4 

y  cr 

5s 

LLI  LJJ 
03 

3^ 

lO      LU 

>< 

>  cr 

Z^ 

^i 

1 

3    a 

CD      i/l 

LU  LU 
Q  Z 

LU  < 

Qu: 

cncr 
<o 

1234 

1267 

Y  1 

1293 

A  i 

1293 

72 

1376 

+ 

08^ 

"^ 

bv 

' 

1377 

75 

— 

11 

+ 

07 

N 

1378 

75 

- 

52  + 

07 

U 

1379 

75 

+ 

07 

- 

51 

U 

Fig.  7  —  Teletypewriter  test  record. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   INTERTOLL  TRUNKS 


953 


APPLICATION 

Maximum  benefits  can  be  derived  from  the  automatic  testing  equip- 
ment by  locating  it  at  points  having  a  considerable  number  of  intertoll 
trunks.  This  suggests  that  the  near-end  installations  be  placed  in  offices 
in  larger  cities  and  far-end  installations  be  placed  at  points  with  enough 
trunks  available  to  near-end  equipment  to  justify  the  far-end  equipment. 
As  has  been  indicated  the  far-end  equipment  can  operate  with  either  an 
automatic  transmission  test  and  control  circuit  or  with  a  test  board 
attendant  at  the  opposite  end.  Therefore,  once  an  office  has  been  supplied 
with  far-end  test  equipment,  all  incoming  and  two-way  dial  type  intertoll 
trunks  from  offices  provided  with  near  end  equipment  can  be  tested  on 
a  fully  automatic  basis  and  all  incoming  and  two-way  dial  type  intertoll 


NO.  4 
OFFICE 


NO.  4 
OFFICE 


RC  OR   SC 


RC  OR  SC 


NEAR-END 
TEST  CIRCUIT 

FAR-END 
TEST   CIRCUIT 


FULLY-AUTOMATIC 
'  CODE  104 


FAR-END 
TEST   CIRCUIT 


PC 


NEAR-END 
TEST  CIRCUIT 

FAR-END 
TEST  CIRCUIT 

I 


NEAR-END 
TEST  CIRCUIT 

FAR-END 
TEST   CIRCUIT 


SC  OR  PC 


k 


tpL 


^ 

SEMI- 
AUTOMATIC 
"CODE  104  ' 
OR  CODE  102 


FAR-END 
TEST  CIRCUIT 


> 


FULLY-AUTOMATIC 
CODE  104 


I 


NO. 4 
OFFICE 


FULLY-AUTOMATIC 
CODE  104 


FAR-END 
TEST    CIRCUIT 


SxS 

CROSSBAR 

TANDEM 

NO.  5 

CROSSBAR 


\ 
\ 

\         ^^ 


SEMI-AUTOMATIC 
CODE  104    _- 
OR  CODE  102 


I 

I 

PC  ORJTC 


I 


-SEMI-AUTOMATIC  CODE  102' 


SxS 

CROSSBAR 

TANDEM 

NO.  5 

CROSSBAR 


note: 

it  is  assumed  that  code  102  mw 
supply  circuits  will  be  available  at 
all  offices  and  can  be  used,  or  that 
test  board  to  test  board  measurements 
can  be  made  when  desired 


LEGEND 

RC  =  REGIONAL   CENTER 
SC   =  SECTIONAL  CENTER 
PC  =  PRIMARY  CENTER 
TC  =  TOLL  CENTER 
TP  =  TOLL  POINT 


Fig.  8  —  Typical  layout  for  automatic  testing. 


954  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TEC?IXICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 

trunks  from  other  toll  offices  can  be  tested  on  a  semi-automatic  basis 
from  the  toll  test  board  in  the  distant  office. 

Fig.  8  shows  a  possible  application  of  automatic  test  circuits.  In  such 
an  application,  all  No.  4  type  toll  crossbar  offices  would  have  both  near- 
end  and  far-end  equipments.  Other  offices  would  have  far-end  equipment 
only  when  they  have  a  sufficient  number  of  direct  trunks  to  No.  4  type 
offices  to  justify  its  use.  The  several  types  of  tests  which  would  be  pos- 
sible are  indicated  in  the  illustration. 

It  can  be  seen  that  a  well  distributed  number  of  near-end  and  far-end 
test  circuits  will  make  it  possible  to  test  automatically  a  large  percentage 
of  the  intertoll  trunks  throughout  the  country.  This  is  particularly  true 
in  the  more  populous  sections,  where  the  concentration  of  trunks  results 
in  the  probability  of  toll  centers  having  trunks  to  more  than  one  office 
furnished  with  near-end  equipment. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Automatic  intertoll  trunk  testing  arrangements,  including  transmis- 
sion tests,  are  the  result  of  the  ideas,  efforts  and  experiences  of  many 
people  concerned  with  intertoll  switching  and  maintenance  problems 
throughout  the  Bell  System.  Mr.  L.  L.  Glezen  and  Mr.  L.  F.  Howard 
deserve  particular  mention  in  this  regard.  Specific  credit  should  also  be 
given  to  Mr.  B.  McKim  and  Mr.  T.  H.  Neely  for  the  basic  scheme  of 
two-way  transmission  measurements  and  accuracy  checks  and  to  Mr. 
C.  C.  Fleming  for  the  design  of  the  amplifier  and  amplifier-rectifier. 
Appreciation  is  given  to  various  departments  of  the  American  Tele- 
phone and  Telegraph  Company  for  their  assistance  during  the  develop- 
ment and  trial  of  this  equipment.  Mention  should  also  be  made  of  the 
hearty  cooperation  and  aid  given  by  the  A.T.  &  T.  and  Associated 
Company  plant  forces  during  the  field  trial  of  automatic  transmission 
testing. 


« 


Intertoll  Trunk  Net  Loss  Maintenance 

under  Operator  Distance  and  Direct 

Distance  Dialing 

By  H.  H.  FEEDER  and  E.  N.  LITTLE 

(Manuscript  received  March  15,  1956) 

Nearly  all  of  the  components  of  an  intertoll  trunk  contribute  in  some  degree 
to  its  variations  in  transmission  loss.  Automatic  transmission  regulating  de- 
vices in  carrier  systems  and  in  many  voice-frequency  systems  control  in- 
herent variations  in  the  intertoll  trunk  plant.  These  variations  in  transmis- 
sion come  mainly  from  unavoidable  causes  such  as  temperature  changes.  The 
success  of  these  devices  depends  on  how  precisely  the  trunk  is  lined  up  and 
the  manner  in  which  the  maintenance  adjustments  are  made.  When  the  na- 
tionwide dialing  plan  with  automatic  alternate  routing  is  in  full  swing,  main- 
tenance requirements  will  be  more  severe  because  of  the  material  increase  in 
switched  business  and  the  number  of  possible  links  in  tandem,  and  because 
operator  checks  will  not  be  obtained  on  most  calls.  Therefore,  the  maintenance 
forces  will  have  to  keep  closer  watch  on  intertoll  trunk  transmission  perform- 
ance and  insure  that  the  necessary  adjustments  are  made  in  the  right  places. 
This  article  discusses  some  of  the  maintenance  techniques  now  used  and  sug- 
gests fields  for  further  study. 

TABLE    OF   CONTENTS 

Page 

Introduction 956 

The  Prolilem  of  Net  Loss  Maintenance 956 

Effect  of  Switching  Plans 957 

Manual  Operation 957 

Dial  Operation 958 

Effect  of  Carrier  Operation 960 

Table  1 960 

Quantitative  Aspects  of  the  Problem 962 

Table  II 963 

Use  of  Transmission  Loss  Data 964 

Procedure  for  Analyzing  Measurements 965 

Effectiveness  of  Over-all  Trunk  Test  and  Analysis 969 

Simple  Layouts 969 

Complex  Lajouts 970 

Need  for  Education 971 

Summary  and  Conclusions 972 

955 


956  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JLUY    1956 

INTRODUCTION 

Currently  there  are  over  230,000,000  long  distance  calls  made  in  the 
Bell  System  per  month.  They  range  from  relatively  simple  connections 
involving  a  single  intercity  trunk  to  complex  connections  involving  sev- 
eral intercity  trunks  in  tandem,  perhaps  totaling  4,000  miles  in  length. 
In  each  case  there  is  a  toll  connecting  trunk  at  each  end.  Almost  half  of 
this  traffic  involves  distances  over  30  miles.  The  transmission  engineer's 
problem  is  how  to  provide  uniformly  good  and  dependable  transmission 
so  that  every  one  of  these  calls  will  be  satisfactory  to  the  customers  in- 
volved. To  accomplish  this  requires  among  other  things  that: 

1.  The  design  loss  of  every  trunk  must  be  the  lowest  permissible  from 
the  standpoint  of  echo,  singing,  crosstalk  and  noise. 

2.  The  actual  loss  of  every  trunk  must  be  kept  close  to  the  design  loss 
at  all  times. 

Meeting  the  first  requirement  is  a  matter  of  system  design  and  circuit 
layout  engineering.  The  factors  involved  have  been  covered  in  a  previous 
article.^  Meeting  the  second  requirement  is  an  important  function  of  the 
maintenance  forces  and  is  discussed  in  this  article. 

THE   PROBLEM    OF   NET    LOSS   MAINTENANCE 

The  transition  from  manual  operation  under  the  ''general  toll  switch- 
ing plan"  to  dial  operation  under  the  "nationwide  dialing  plan"^-  ^  is  re- 
quiring material  changes  in  intertoll  trunk  design  and  also  in  techniques 
for  maintaining  these  trunks.  While  precise  maintenance  is  becoming  in- j 
creasingly  necessary,  it  is  also  becoming  more  difficult  to  achieve.  There 
are  three  important  reasons  for  this. 

First,  the  nationwide  dialing  plan  increases  both  the  possible  number 
of  trunks  used  in  tandem  for  a  given  call  and  the  variety  of  the  connec- 
tions in  which  any  particular  trunk  may  be  used.  This  increases' 
the  chances  of  impairment  due  to  deviations  from  assigned  loss  in  indi- 
vidual trunks  since  these  deviations  may  combine  unfavorably  in  multi- 
switched  connections.  To  minimize  this,  the  transmission  stability  of  the 
individual  trunk  links  must  be  better  than  under  the  old  plan. 

Second,  more  and  more  of  the  trunks  are  being  put  on  carrier  because 


*  H.  R.  Huntley,  Transmission  Design  of  Intertoll  Telephone  Trunks,  B. S.T.J. , 
Sept.  1953. 

2  H.  S.  Osborne,  A  General  Switching  Plan  for  Telephone  Toll  Service,  B. S.T.J. , 
July,  1930. 

'  A.  B.  Clark  and  H.  S.  Osborne,  Automatic  Switching  for  Nationwide  Tele- 
phone Service,  B.S.T.J.,  Sept.,  1952. 

*  J.  J.  Pilliod,  Fundamental  Plans  for  Toll  Telephone  Plant,  B.S.T.J.,  Sept. 
1952. 


INTERTOLL   TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE 


957 


it  is  the  best  solution  to  the  transmission  and  economic  problems.  How- 
('\er,  carrier  involves  many  more  variable  elements  and  requires  higher 
precision  of  adjustment  than  voice-frequency  systems  need.  These  in- 
crease the  difficulty  of  maintaining  trunk  losses  close  to  design  values  on 
a  day-by-day  basis. 

Third,  as  operator  distance  and  direct  distance  dialing  grow,  there  is 
constantly  diminishing  opportunity  for  operators  to  detect  and  change 
unsatisfactory  connections  or  to  report  unsatisfactory  transmission  con- 
ditions to  the  appropriate  testboards  for  action. 

Thus  the  maintenance  problem  is  in  two  parts: 

1.  How  can  we  reduce  departures  from  design  standards  even  in  the 
[face  of  increasing  complexity  of  plant? 

2.  What  substitute  can  we  find  for  operator  detection  of  troubles,  and 
can  we  find  even  better  means  of  detection? 

The  ways  in  which  switching  plans  and  the  use  of  carrier  reflect  upon 
Ithe  problem  of  trunk  net  loss  maintenance  is  discussed  in  more  detail  in 
the  follo\\dng  sections. 


EFFECT    OF   SWITCHING   PLANS 


Manual  Operation 


For  many  years  long  distance  traffic  has  been  handled  on  a  manual  ba- 
sis under  the  "general  toll  switching  plan"  illustrated  in  Fig.  1.  Between 
two  points  indicated  by  toll  centers,  TC  and  TC",  it  was  theoretically 
possible  to  get  as  many  as  five  trunks  in  tandem.  This  rarely  occurred  be- 


RC' 


Po'(>: 


I"- 


TC 


■& 


.'I 

.1. 

I 

!    / 


^^. 


RC" 


"O  PO" 


\ 
"-A 


■B  TC" 


TC  =  Toll  Center        PO  =  Primary  Outlet        RC  =  Regional  Center 
Fig.  1  —  General  toll  switching  plan  —  manual  operation. 


958 


THE   BP:LL   system  technical  journal,   JULY    195G 


cause  handliug  .switched  connections  manuully  was  so  complicated  and 
expensive  that  direct  trunks  were  provided  wherever  they  were  econom- 
ical and  alternate  routes  were  assigned  and  used  sparingly.  The  result 
was  that  the  manual  switching  plan  was  characterized  by  a  minimum  of 
switching. 

Under  manual  operation,  operators  passed  information  over  every 
trunk  in  the  connection,  as  w^ell  as  over  the  completed  connection,  before 
it  was  turned  over  to  the  customers.  If  anything  was  radically  wrong  with 
a  trunk,  the  operators  recognized  it  and  substituted  another  trunk.  When 
this  was  necessary,  they  could  report  the  defective  trunk  to  the  appropri- 
ate testboard  for  action.  Under  these  conditions,  if  trunk  losses  wandered 
appreciably  from  their  specified  values,  the  consequences  were  seldom 
serious. 

Dial  Operation 

With  dial  operation,  not  only  is  the  plan  more  complex  (as  shown  on 
Fig.  2),  with  an  abundance  of  alternate  routes,  but  intertoll  trunk  switch- 
ing is  so  fast  and  reliable  that  the  number  of  switching  points  has  little 
effect  on  speed  of  service.  Thus  the  dial  operating  plan  can  take  full  ad- 
vantage of  alternate  routing  and  the  use  of  trunks  in  tandem  \\\\\  occur 
much  more  freciuently  than  with  manual  operation. 


TC  =  Toll  Center        PC  =  Primary  Center         SC  =  Sectional  Center 

RC  =  Regional  Center 

Fig.  2  —  Nationwide  dialing  plan  —  dial  operation. 


INTERTOLL   TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE  959 

Here  again  the  alternate  routing  follows  a  definite  plan.^  As  shown  in 
iMg.  2,  a  call  from  toll  center,  TC,  to  toll  center,  TC",  will  follow  the 
direct  route,  if  it  is  available  and  not  busy.  A  second  choice  will  be  via  a 
higher  ranking  office  in  the  chain  from  TC"  to  the  regional  center,  RC". 
A  third  choice  may  be  available  to  a  still  higher  ranking  office.  Thus,  if 
the  originating  office  cannot  use  its  direct  route,  the  call  will  be  advanced 
over  the  alternate  routes  according  to  a  predetermined  pattern.  If  all 
other  alternatives  fail,  the  call  will  follow  the  heavy  solid  line  7-link  route 
shown  on  Fig.  2,  or,  in  special  cases,  the  8-link  route  via  RC". 

These  attempts  involve  many  operations  but  the  automatic  equipment 
completes  them  cjuickly.  This  makes  it  feasible  to  provide  small,  high 
usage,  direct  trunk  groups  between  two  points,  with  the  realization  that 
in  busy  periods  alternate  routes  can  handle  the  overflow^  traffic  with  neg- 
ligible time  delay.  Thus  over  a  good  part  of  the  day,  the  direct  trunks 
or  first  choice  trunks  will  handle  the  traffic.  In  the  busy  periods,  use  of 
alternate  routes  with  a  mnnber  of  links  in  tandem  vdW  be  a  frequent 
occurrence.  Therefore,  it  is  important  to  have  losses  on  alternate  routes 
not  greatly  different  from  those  on  direct  routes  so  customers  will  not 
experience  noticeable  contrasts. 

Operators  will  seldom  talk  to  each  other  over  the  complete  connection, 
and  even  less  over  the  individual  trunks.  Only  on  person-to-person  or  col- 
lect calls  will  they  talk  even  to  the  called  party.  On  station-to-station 
calls  they  merely  dial  or  key  up  the  desired  number  and  rely  on  super- 
visory signals  to  disclose  the  progress  of  the  call. 

On  operator  dialed  calls,  the  operator  may  sometimes  pick  up  the  in- 
tertoU  trunk  in  her  switchboard  multiple,  but  in  many  cases  she  will 
reach  it  over  a  tandem  trunk.  In  the  former  case  she  can  identify  the  in- 
tertoll  trunk  forming  the  first  link  in  the  connection  but  assistance  would 
be  needed  at  intermediate  testboards  to  identify  succeeding  trunks.  In 
the  latter  case,  testman  assistance  would  be  required  at  the  originating 
office  in  order  to  identify  even  the  first  trunk  of  the  connection.  In  either 
case  the  need  for  holding  the  customer's  line  during  identification,  to 
avoid  breaking  down  the  connections  makes  such  means  of  identifica- 
tion impracticable  Avith  presently  available  techniques. 

On  direct  distance  dialed  calls  there  are  no  operators  involved  and  pres- 
ent means  of  identification  of  trunks  in  trouble  after  the  connection  has 
])een  established  are  even  more  impracticable.  This  is  because  the  calling 
party  must  release  the  connection  before  he  can  report  a  trouble,  thus 
destroying  any  possibility  of  trunk  identification. 

6  R.  I.  Wilkinson,  Theory  for  Toll  Traffic  Engineering  in  the  U.  S.  A.,  B.S.T.J., 
March,  1956. 


960 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956 


Thus  under  dial  operation  there  is  a  need  for  better  trunk  stability. 
Therefore,  a  greater  burden  is  placed  on  the  plant  forces  to  locate  unsatis- 
factory trunks  so  that  proper  maintenance  action  can  be  taken  before 
customers  experience  difficulty. 

EFFECT  OF  CARRIER  OPERATION 

Carrier  is  the  principal  transmission  instrumentality  which  makes  it 
possible  to  go  ahead  A\dth  natiomvide  dialing  with  assurance  that  people 
can  talk  satisfactorily  over  the  complex  connections  set  up  by  the  switch- 
ing sj^stems.  But  it  brings  with  it  formidable  problems  of  maintenance. 
The  high  attenuation  per  mile  of  the  hue  conductors  at  carrier  frequencies 
increases  the  number  of  variable  elements  as  well  as  the  precision  with 
which  they  must  be  adjusted.  The  interrelation  between  the  elements 
adds  to  the  complication. 

Table  I  illustrates  this  by  giving  some  figures  comparing  100  miles  of  a 
voice-frequency  cable  trunk  with  100  miles  of  a  typical  trunk  on  K  car- 
rier, which  is  \\idely  used  on  cable  facilities.  The  figures  apply  in  both 
cases  to  one  direction  of  transmission. 

The  ten-to-one  ratio  in  the  number  of  electron  tubes  represents  a 
greater  chance  of  trouble  developing  in  the  carrier  trunk  due  to  aging  or 
failure  of  electron  tubes.  In  the  carrier  trunks  there  are  more  automatic 
adjustable  features.  For  instance,  in  a  typical  K2  carrier  system  there  are 
five  flat  gain  regulators  and  one  twist  regulator  in  one  twist  section  of 
approximately  100  miles,  against  a  single  regulator  in  a  voice-frequency 
trunk  100  miles  long.  These  regulators  are  depended  upon  to  keep  the 
loss  variations  to  tolerable  amounts.  Any  malfunction  can  have  a  serious 
effect  on  trvmk  loss.  Furthermore,  they  must  be  adjusted  to  the  desired 
regulating  range  and  therefore  they  are  points  at  which  maladjustments 
may  be  made. 

The  channels  of  any  one  carrier  system  or  of  a  12-channel  group  are 
commonly  routed  by  the  circuit  layout  engineers  to  a  number  of  terminal 


Table  I 


Total  Conductor  Loss  -db 

Gain  Required  to  Reduce  to  Via  Net  Loss  -db 

Percentage  of  Line  Loss  Represented  by  a  2  db  Variation 

Number  of  Electron  Tubes 

Number  of  Amplifiers 

Number  of  Automatic  Regulators 


V-f 

K2  Carrier 

Trunk 

Trunk 

35 

378 

31 

377.4 

5.7 

0.53 

3 

28 

3 

7 

1 

6 

INTERTOLL   TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE 


961 


ALPHA 


BETA 


GAMMA 


' 

' 

--\ 

r  — 

— ._  ^ 



— 1                        j — 





—  - 

- 

T, 

A        j 

1     c     1 

T, 

1^ 

-* 

^- 

^       1 

^_   V 

f                                  1 

■X- 

T2 

T3 

\ 

/ 

• 

\ 
/ 

< 

T3 

B 

/ 

\ 

1        D 

T2 

\ 

-* 

■x-- 

/ 

,,  ,  \ 

^ 

J 

> 

T4 

T4 

*  TO   THIS    OR   OTHER    DESTINATIONS 

Fig.  3  —  Typical  carrier  channel  assignments. 

points  even  though  circuit  requirements  to  a  given  point  are  sufficient  to 
utilize  12  or  more  channels.  This  is  done  to  minimize  the  chances  that  all 
of  the  trunks  between  two  points  will  be  interrupted  by  a  system  failure. 
A  simple  case  is  illustrated  by  Fig.  3  which  shows  trunks  between  Alpha 
and  Gamma  connected  at  an  intermediate  point,  Beta,  in  such  a  manner 
that  a  failure  in  any  one  of  the  systems  A,  B,  C,  or  D  will  affect  only 
half  the  trunks. 

This  routing  problem,  however,  complicates  the  maintenance  problem. 
For  example,  if  trunk  Tl  were  found  to  have  excess  loss  in  the  Alpha- 
Gamma  direction  it  could  be  corrected  by  raising  the  channel  gain  at 
Gamma.  On  the  other  hand,  a  correct  diagnosis  might  have  disclosed  that 
the  trouble  was  due  to  a  repeater  in  system  A.  If  this  were  the  case, 
merely  compensating  for  the  excess  loss  in  Tl  by  changing  the  channel 
gain  would  still  leave  all  other  trunks  associated  with  system  A  in 
trouble.  Later  on,  if  the  repeater  difficulty  were  corrected,  and  no  further 
action  were  taken,  the  net  loss  of  Tl  would  then  be  too  low. 

Thus,  the  flexibility  which  is  so  desirable  to  minimize  interruptions  of 
whole  circuit  groups  leads  to  a  difficult  problem  in  the  administration  of 
trunk  loss  adjustment  and  maintenance.  Furthermore,  because  of  the 
larger  numbers  and  greater  dispersion  of  trunks  and  terminal  points,  the 
situation  in  the  actual  telephone  plant  is  much  more  complex  than  in  the 
above  example.  Also,  the  diagnosis  of  trouble  conditions  is  made  more 
difficult  by  the  normal  variations  of  channel  losses  in  the  carrier  systems 
and  consequently  of  the  trunk  losses  about  their  design  values.  This  can 


962       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

be  better  appreciated  when  some  quantitative  aspects  of  the  problem 
are  considered. 

QUANTITATIVE   ASPECTS    OF   THE    PROBLEM 

When  the  nationwide  dial  switching  plan  began  to  take  shape  some  8 
or  10  3'ears  ago,  intensiA-e  study  of  the  transmission  maintenance  prob- 
lem was  undertaken.  The  existing  situation  was  examined  to  determine 
whether  or  not  the  plant  ^^'ould  continue  to  be  satisfactory  under  the 
changed  conditions.  This  was  done  by  analyzing  the  results  of  many 
thousands  of  transmission  measurements  which  had  been  made  on  a  rou- 
tine basis  in  toll  test  rooms  all  over  the  Bell  System.  Both  the  measured 
and  the  assigned  losses  were  available  so  the  differences  between  them 
could  be  derived  and  analyzed  statistically. 

Although  the  distribution  of  differences  expressed  in  db  for  an  office 
did  not  necessarily  follow  precisely  a  normal  probability  law,  the  distri- 
butions were  close  enough  to  normal  law  so  that  they  could  be  treated  as 
normal.  The  results  were  similar  throughout  the  System.  The  differences 
within  an  office  were  random  as  also  were  the  means  of  the  differeJnces 
from  office  to  office.  However,  the  means  tended  to  be  biased  in  the  direc- 
tion of  excess  loss.  The  performance  of  trunks  in  multi-link  connections 
which  would  be  set  up  by  the  switching  machines  could  therefore  be  esti- 
mated with  reasonable  accuracy.  In  the  statistical  analysis  of  measure- 
ments on  the  group  of  trunks,  the  performance  was  expressed  in  terms 
of  "distribution  grade"  and  "bias."  In  telephone  transmission  mainte- 
nance terminology,  bias  is  the  algebraic  average  of  the  measured  trans- 
mission departures  in  db  from  individual  specified  net  losses  for  the  group 
of  trunks.  The  distribution  grade  is  the  standard  deviation  of  the  differ- 
ences between  measured  and  specified  trunk  losses  about  this  bias  value. 
The  distribution  grades  found  in  these  studies  were  about  as  follows: 

For  trunks  under  500  miles  —  about  1.8  db. 

For  longer  trunks  —  about  2.5  db. 

Table  II  illustrates  the  effects  of  the  distribution  grades  on  connections 
involving  various  combinations  of  these  trunk  links,  assuming  that  bias 
can  be  neglected. 

The  design  loss  objective  for  a  4-link  connection,  say  1,000  miles  long, 
is  abovit  7  or  8  db  (including  2  db  of  connecting  trunk  or  pad  loss  at  each 
end),  ^rable  II  shows  that,  in  an  appreciable  percentage  of  the  4-link  con- 
nections in\'olving  the  above  type  of  plant,  the  \'ariations  can  he  ex- 
pected to  exceed  the  design  loss.  Variations  of  this  magnitude  can  result 
in  transmission  impairment  d\w  to  (H'ho,  hollownoss,  singing,  crosstalk, 


INTERTOLL   TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE 


963 


Table  II 


Number  of  IntertoU  Trunks  in  the  Connection  . 


Distribution  Grade  in  db 

Per  cent  of  Connections  Departing 
from  Average 

±2  db  or  more 

±4  db  or  more 

±8  db  or  more 


2.5 


42 
11 
0. 


4.4 


65 
36 

7 


5.0 


69 
42 
11 


8* 


5.6 


73 
47 
15 


Includes  two  trunks  over  500  miles  long. 


noise  or  low  volume.  Furthermore,  undesirable  contrast  may  be  encoun- 
tered on  successive  calls  between  the  same  two  telephones. 

The  results  of  the  study  as  well  as  experience  with  the  beginning  of 
automatic  alternate  routing  show  that  the  performance  of  the  existing 
trunk  plant  must  be  improved.  Three  immediate  objectives  have  been 
set: 

1.  Reduction  of  distribution  grades  to  about  }^  of  the  values  men- 
tioned above,  i.e.,  about  1.0  db. 

2.  Maintenance  of  office  bias  within  ±0.25  db. 

3.  Removal  from  ser\'ice  of  individual  trunks  differing  widely  from 
their  design  losses  (in  the  order  of  4  or  5  db). 

To  achieve  these  objecti^'es  requires  effort  along  four  lines.  First, 
systems  should  be  designed  to  have  sufficient  stability  once  they  are 
adjusted.  This  involves  the  inclusion  of  stable  circuit  elements  and  the 
provision  of  automatic  regulating  devices  to  compensate  for  unavoidable 
transmission  variations  arising  from  natural  causes.  These  features  have 
been  applied  to  existing  systems  within  limits  imposed  by  economic  con- 
siderations and  the  state  of  the  art.  Further  extension  of  these  features 
will  be  required  in  the  future  in  order  to  meet  the  above  objectives. 

Second,  before  a  trunk  is  placed  in  service,  each  of  its  component  parts 
and  the  over-all  trunk  should  be  adjusted  to  give  the  correct  loss.  From 
the  transmission  maintenance  point  of  view,  it  is  extremely  important  for 
each  trunk  to  start  out  with  all  of  its  adjustments  correctly  made. 

Third,  existing  and  incipient  troubles,  and  deterioration  or  maladjust- 
ment of  components,  must  be  detected  and  corrected  by  routine  mainte- 
nance of  indi\'idual  systems  used  in  making  up  trunks.  Such  activity 
must  make  up  for  the  inability  to  design  systems  to  have  the  desired 
stal)ility. 

Fourth,  significant  departures  from  trunk  design  losses  must  be  de- 
tected by  over-all  transmission  measurements,  and  must  be  corrected  be- 


964  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 

fore  service  reactions  occur.  Such  measurements  will  also  be  of  aid  in  de- 
termining the  effectiveness  of  efforts  along  the  first  and  third  lines. 

As  discussed  earlier,  the  presence  of  the  operator  on  every  call  was  of 
material  assistance  in  the  detection  of  unsatisfactory  trunks.  On  operator 
or  direct  distance  dailed  calls,  there  will  be  little  or  no  operator  conversa- 
tion over  the  intertoll  trunk  connection.  As  a  substitute,  the  maintenance 
forces  may  need  to  make  more  frequent  checks  of  the  transmission  per- 
formance of  the  trunks  unless  the  stability  of  individual  systems  and 
components  of  systems  can  be  improved.  Manual  methods  have  been 
used  by  the  maintenance  forces  in  the  past  to  measure  trunk  losses.  Semi- 
automatic measuring  methods  have  been  developed  to  reduce  the  time 
and  effort  required.  In  many  cases  the  necessary  number  of  measurements 
will  be  economical  only  when  made  by  automatic  devices.  One  form  of 
such  gear  is  described  in  a  companion  paper. ^ 

The  ability  to  measure  over-all  trunk  losses  simply  and  frequently  is 
of  direct  aid  in  detecting  when  loss  deviations  exceed  maximum  toler- 
ances. Such  measurements  in  themselves,  however,  are  insufficient  to 
detect  incipient  troubles  or  to  indicate  the  component  part  responsible 
for  unsatisfactory  transmission.  An  attempt  has  been  made  to  achieve 
these  objectives  by  using  statistical  analysis  of  the  measured  data  as 
an  aid  to  diagnosis.  The  following  sections  discuss  the  application  of  such 
analysis. 

Use  of  Transmission  Loss  Data 

It  has  been  shown  that  considerable  variation  can  be  expected  in  trunk 
losses  even  in  the  absence  of  trouble  conditions.  For  any  given  group  of 
trunks  selected  for  analysis,  the  performance  is  described  by  the  distri- 
bution grade  and  the  bias.  If  a  group  of  trunks  is  found  to  have  bias,  it 
is  usually  an  indication  of  some  assignable  cause.  One  such  cause  might 
be  a  change  in  gain  of  an  amplifier  common  to  the  group.  Another  cause 
might  be  improper  gain  adjustment  for  channel  units  of  a  carrier  termi- 
nal associated  with  the  group. 

If  a  group  of  trunks  is  found  to  have  a  greater  distribution  grade  than 
the  distribution  grade  for  all  the  trunks  in  the  office,  this  may  indicate 
excessive  instability  in  a  component  part  common  to  the  trunks  in  the 
group.  If  analysis  of  all  the  trunks  terminating  in  an  office  shows  a  higher 
distribution  grade  than  is  usually  fomid  in  similar  offices,  the  fault  may 
be  due  to  maintenance  routines  being  inadequately  or  improperly  ap- 
plied. 

*  H.  H.  Felder,  A.  J.  Pascarella  and  H.  F.  Shoffstall,  Automatic  Testing  of 
Transmission  and  Operational  Functions  of  Intertoll  Trunks,  page  927  of  this 
issue. 


INTERTOLL   TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE  965 

Statistical  analyses  must  thus  be  made  of  data  for  small  groups  as 
well  as  for  large  groups  of  trunks.  Furthermore,  the  groups  which  arc 
studied  must  have  elements  or  factors  in  common  in  order  for  the  statis- 
tics to  have  significance.  Analyses  of  periodic  measurements  of  losses  for 
the  same  trunk  or  groups  of  similar  trunks  can  likewise  indicate  signifi- 
cant changes  in  performance. 

As  yet,  the  problems  of  properly  selecting  the  trunks  to  be  analyzed 
and  of  correlating  the  results  of  the  analyses  with  particular  system  ele- 
ments needing  maintenance  attention  have  been  solved  only  partially. 
In  addition  to  the  need  for  proper  procedures,  there  is  the  need  for  thor- 
ough training  of  maintenance  personnel.  The  complexity  of  the  telephone 
plant  today  is  increasing  the  importance  of  all  maintenance  personnel 
ha\dng  a  thorough  knowledge  of  how  individual  systems  function  and 
how  the  performance  of  the  various  system  elements  reacts  upon  over- 
all trunk  performance. 

Procedure  for  Analyzing  Measurements 

In  an  effort  to  facilitate  the  application  of  statistical  analysis  of  trunk 
performance  by  plant  personnel,  a  special  data  sheet  and  associated 
templates  have  been  devised.  These  are  shown  in  Figs.  4,  5,  and  6.  The 
method  of  analysis  gives  only  approximate  results  but  has  been  found 
to  be  sufficiently  accurate  for  reasonably  large  amounts  of  data.  It  is 
simple,  rapid  and  easily  comprehended  by  the  plant  personnel.  The 
procedure  to  be  followed  consists  first  of  subtracting  the  specified  loss 
from  the  measured  loss  for  each  of  the  trunks  under  study.  A  stroke  is 
placed  on  the  chart  for  each  of  the  resulting  deviations  at  the  intersection 
of  the  appropriate  classification  and  tally  lines.  For  example,  the  first 
deviation  between  —3.25  db  and  —3.75  db  would  be  stroked  on  the 
horizontal  line  for  that  band,  just  to  the  left  of  the  vertical  line  for  tally  1 
(See  Fig.  4).  The  second  deviation  in  that  band  would  be  stroked  just  to 
the  left  of  the  tally  2  line.  This  is  continued  until  all  the  deviations  have 
been  recorded. 

The  last  stroke  in  each  j^^  db  band  indicates  the  number  of  deviations 
found  having  values  within  that  band.  As  shown  on  Fig.  4,  for  the 
analysis  by  the  template  method  this  value  is  written  in  the  first  column, 
marked  "Line  Tots.  (A)."  These  values  are  added  and  should  equal  the 
total  number  of  measurements  in  the  study  (533  in  the  example). 

Next,  the  column  "Cum.  to  3^^"  is  filled  out.  Beginning  at  the  top 
line,  totals  are  accumulated  to  the  point  where  adding  the  next  line  total 
will  result  in  a  value  exceeding  3-^  the  grand  total  of  measurements  (266 
in  the  example).  Similarly  a  value  is  obtained  accumulating  the  totals 
from  the  bottom.  In  Fig.  4  these  values  are  246  and  166,  respectively. 


966 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 


P 1 1 -F 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 \ 1 1 1 1 1 \ 1 1 T            t            I            1             1            f             1             I             i 

o 

rrnpmqmp<»)or?ocnomom_rooc»>Ofop':PP;^P'^P'3SSS 

Xi 

!                                                1 

1              .               ,              .              i              i 

^ 

^  J 

'ui6ih6in6tfi<b»ii6'^ii/>i>>^            ,h     d3     ^     <ti     li^     <i>     m     i3     <tt     C     </t,     O     it)     o     ity   a 

'•''    1    11!    1    '    !    1    1    !    1    .tttttrttttttttt* 

|! 

'■                        -->rf*<^^Ks^^S?S:c;SS<»-»»--- 

> 

1                                    ^.o<-''^^-5?i5:3:Hfs$SSfv,.>.-oO^ 

^                                                                       HI9— 2-fi-ii-ii-i-f-f-^-yfM*f -i-»ft*fl*H'Z+-^"'a 

1 1 1^ '       ' 

Is 

r 

o 

o 
to 

2 

z 

1 
S 

S 

1 

II 

in 

«/3 

■65 

i 

Is 

\ 

c 
o 

I 

J5 

\ 

</> 
S 

1 

i 

o 

IP 

II 

E 

5 

<J> 

z 

^ 

1        = 

1 

^ 

1 

m 

— 1 — 

— 1 — 

7 

8  greater  than  7b 
Therefore,  the  BIAS- 

iOate  In  Fig.   5  is 
enter  line  on  the 
located  at  the  -l/4   _ 
3  absclsaa  marking 
he  chart* 

+ 

X 

II 

•51  • 
II 

-    !i 
-S 

-  s 

-s 

-S 

m 

es 

OO* 

to' 

^  ' 

CM 

2 

at  1 

eo 
r^ 

«0 

m 

1 

. ■ — -= 

N 

re 

m 
II 

— > 

— » 
1 

II 

-J 

- 1 

: 

= ■ 

. 

' — p 

*fcr\      «3   j  «  o 
-1    1  H  £    O        rH 

...J 

1 

== 

- 

-^ 

''F 

+ 

• 

II 

IS 

is 

t;  =    1 
«  E    w 

£  =  o 

a,s  + 
?f  1 

■     t 

1 

1 

!     ■ 

X 

■ 

+         y 

"    ■ 

1 

\ 

■ 

■ 

■ 

.     ..      . 

,         • 

t      • 

' 

f      ■ 

y 

1 — 

T 

■ 

" 

' 

+ 

■ 

" 

i  : 

n       h 

n       i 

q 

X»           1 

1      1 

3     ? 

-        c 

■sj           C 

"    ' 

n       ii 

SI       r 

3 

t>j       r 
Ci        C 

n       u 
■-       r 

3         - 

n        tj 
-.        c 

si           C 

--        c 

si        e 

n       u 

S(        r 
ri        n 

1         u 

T          U 

3     fi 

S        u 

3    i 

->       ^ 

n       u 

SI            f 

o       u 

6      f 

->         u 

> 

ki^  t/)  tJ"*  xit  tj^  «/>  tD  U^  li^  t/^  U^  ti^  W>  Ut  IJ^  U*> 


«A       t/1       tn       ^       ^ 


r^        csi        r^ 


ti'i        u^        i/^         ti->         u^ 


fsl  —  -^ 

I      I      I 


^-         —        «s(        cs^ 


I      I      i     ■*•     -t-     •*■     •¥ 

IIP  u(  $$01  )3M  p4!|p9ds  snuiH  sso*)  pajnse)^ 


t/i  u^       M^       Lr>       (it  u^ 

fsj  r^        cs>       1-^        c>j  r^ 

tiS  u~>        (O       ix>        r^  f^ 

+  ♦♦■♦•■•■  + 


INTEKTOLL   TRUNK    NET    LOSS    MAINTENANCE  967 


Fig.  5  —  Combined  template  on  stroke  chart. 

By  use  of  this  information  the  approximate  bias  is  determined.  The 
scale  of  the  bias  values  on  the  stroke  sheet  is  shown  in  ^^  db  steps  along 
the  left-hand  edge  of  the  "Line  Tots.  (A)"  column,  and  bias  is  deter- 
mined to  the  nearest  }^-i  db.  If  the  two  cumulative  totals  differ  from  each 
other  by  less  than  25  per  cent  of  the  larger  value,  an  arrow  indicating 
the  bias  is  placed  midway  between  the  two  class  lines  representing  these 
cumulative  totals.  Its  value  is  read  on  the  bias  scale.  If  the  two  cumula- 
tive totals  differ  from  each  other  by  25  per  cent  or  more  of  the  larger 
value,  an  arrow  indicating  the  bias  is  placed  ^?^  of  the  distance  between 
the  two  class  lines  representing  these  cumulative  totals  and  nearer  the 
larger  value.  In  Fig.  4,  since  246  minus  166  (80)  is  greater  than  25  per 
cent  of  246  (61.5),  the  arrow  is  placed  ^4  of  the  way  from  the  line  repre- 
senting 166  toward  the  line  representing  246;  i.e.,  at  the  —  3>^  db  point 
on  the  bias  scale.  A  second  arrow  is  placed  at  the  corresponding  point  on 
the  tally  1  line. 

As  shown  in  Fig.  5,  a  combined  template  is  then  placed  over  the  chart 
so  that  the  center  line  of  the  template  coincides  with  the  two  arrows. 
Along  the  center  line  of  the  template  there  is  a  scale  indicating  numbers 
of  measurements  from  50  throvigh  700.  The  template  is  moved  horizon- 
tally so  that  the  point  on  the  scale  corresponding  to  the  grand  total  of 
measurements  (533  in  the  example)  is  placed  on  the  1  tally  line.  En\^elope 


9G8 


THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


— r- 

<5 


>«■"     w     »■ 

<-(        3-       5 


r^     o 


■«       00        r--      o5 
~»        T        O      ^ 


.  ro   o 


m     o 


**>     p     ro     p 
o     iri     o 
m     eg     CM 


m 

ON) 


d 


m     o     en     o 
d     «     r\<     ^ 


m     p 
lb     oi 


roonpoiofoorop 
cviibdindioNoiib 


s 


:i 


<i       «5      !f» 

S     v<^     K 


Jul  O     IS     p~ 

"» r^  r«^     lb     vb 

II       I       I 


~i?>      p      37" 
CO     rn     csi 
I        I        I 


eg      -i 

J L 


o 


St'? 


!o      a     ^      9     O     0 

*■    i    2'    S    ^    -»' 

■H      'T      *      "^      ^ 


W)       o 


0    1^ 


iti      '      tr>     p     iS     p     tA     p" 
dOo^^cgcNiro 

J — .  -^  t  t  t  t  r 


~o    K    5    S    S    iK    S    S~3 

»»^if)ir)ibibr>^r<o6 

trrttrtt 


'iiw 


lb     lb 
I       I 


''I 


INTERTOLL   TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE  969 

curves  for  distribution  grades  from  0.38  db  to  3  db  are  shown  on  the 
template.  The  smallest  envelope  having  not  over  8  per  cent  of  the  grand 
total  of  measurements  outside  of  the  envelope  represents  the  approxi- 
mate distribution  grade.  In  the  example,  this  is  the  1  db  curve,  for  which 
22  points  or  4.1  per  cent  of  the  total  fall  outside  of  the  curve.  Using  a 
cut-out  template  corresponding  to  the  distribution  grade,  a  trace  is 
placed  on  the  stroke  sheet,  as  shown  on  Fig.  6. 

In  cases  where  the  small  number  of  measurements  or  the  character 
of  the  dispersion  makes  it  difficult  to  fit  the  data  with  any  of  the  en- 
velope curves  of  the  template,  RMS  methods  of  determining  the  distri- 
bution grade  and  bias  afford  a  better  estimate.  In  the  example  on  Fig. 
6,  the  bias  is  thus  found  to  be  —0.18  db  and  the  distribution  grade  is 
found  to  be  1.14  db. 

When  the  automatic  transmission  test  and  control  circuit  described 
in  the  companion  paper  is  used  for  measuring  net  losses,  the  bias  and  dis- 
tribution grade  can  be  determined  more  quickly  and  easily.  This  circuit 
measures  the  transmission  in  terms  of  deviations  from  the  specified  loss 
and  records  these  by  a  teletypewriter.  In  addition,  registers  indicate  the 
total  number  of  measurements  and  the  number  of  deviations  falling  in 
the  ^'2  db  bands  shown  on  the  stroke  chart.  The  final  strokes  for  each 
band  can  thus  be  placed  on  the  chart  directly  without  the  need  for 
stroking  each  measurement.  From  this  point  on,  the  analysis  and  the 
final  tracing  of  the  envelope  curve  which  is  selected  are  the  same  as  in 
the  case  illustrated  by  Fig.  6. 

EFFECTIVENESS    OF    OVER-ALL   TRUNK   TESTS   AND   ANALYSES 

Simple  Layouts 

With  simple  trunk  layouts  particularly  those  involving  one  voice- 
frequency  or  carrier  link,  plant  forces  have  been  able  to  use  over-all 
trunk  measurements  and  analyses  as  a  direct  aid  in  maintenance.  Early 
field  trials  of  the  stroke  chart  method  were  made  at  two  operating  tele- 
phone company  offices.  The  testers  made  up  stroke  sheets  from  their 
routine  measurements  and  interpreted  the  results  to  find  clues  as  to 
what  to  investigate.  Stroke  sheets  made  at  successive  routine  testing 
periods  also  showed  them  what  improvements  they  were  obtaining  in 
the  operation  of  the  trunks. 

Both  offices  started  with  distribution  grades  of  about  1.8  db  and  with 
biases  of  about  ^^  db.  The  trunk  plant  was  then  given  a  thorough  cleanup 
and  realignment  more  rigorous  than  that  called  for  in  the  maintenance 
practices  at  the  time.  Similar  rigorous  circuit  order  tests  were  followed 


970       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  195G 

as  circuit  order  changes  were  made.  Many  small  troubles  were  found  and 
cleared.  As  the  result  of  such  rigorous  circuit  order  work  and  the  use  of 
statistical  analyses,  the  distribution  grades  at  the  end  of  the  trial  were 
reduced  to  about  1  db  and  the  biases  were  brought  close  to  zero. 

The  maintenance  activities  were  conducted  by  the  regular  test  forces 
during  normall}'  available  maintenance  time.  Although  the  initial  work 
in\'oh'ed  in  cleaning  up  the  trunks  necessitated  some  slippage  in  the 
periodic  maintenance  tests,  troubles  requiring  realignment  were  eventu- 
ally reduced  to  the  point  where  it  became  possible  to  carry  on  the  periodic 
testing  work  concurrently  with  the  more  rigorous  circuit  order  work. 

Complex  Layouts 

During  the  field  trial  of  the  automatic  transmission  test  and  control 
circuit  discussed  in  a  companion  paper,  there  was  an  opportunity  for 
studying  transmission  data  taken  on  intertoll  trunks  of  greater  length 
and  complexity  of  layout.  These  trunks  were  composed  of  two  or  more 
carrier  links  and  connected  Washington,  D.C.  to  several  outlying  points; 
namely,  Atlanta,  Georgia;  Boston,  Massachusetts;  Hempstead,  New 
York;  New  York,  New  York;  Oakland,  California;  and  Richmond,  Vir- 
ginia. A  total  of  231  trunks  were  in  the  groups.  When  the  trial  began, 
without  preliminary  rigorous  circuit  order  work  on  the  trunks  involved, 
the  distribution  grade  was  2.26  db  and  the  bias  was  -|-0.35  db.  Mainte- 
nance investigation  was  initiated  only  when  trunks  were  foimd  to  have 
departed  more  than  a  prescribed  amount  from  their  specified  net  losses. 
Initially  this  value  was  4  db  and  later  it  was  reduced  to  3.5  db. 

As  many  of  these  wide  de\'iations  were  investigated  and  corrected  as 
available  manpower  permitted.  The  layouts  were  so  complex,  however, 
that  it  was  found  impracticable  to  give  prompt  attention  to  all  of  them; 
and  in  many  cases  it  was  impossible  to  check  carrier  systems  that  were 
suspected  of  being  the  source  of  some  of  the  deviations.  At  the  end  of 
the  trial  the  distribution  grade  had  been  reduced  from  the  original  2.26 
db  to  a  range  of  about  1.8  to  2  db.  The  bias  had  not  been  changed  sig- 
nificantly from  the  original  -1-0.35  db. 

These  results  indicated  very  little  improA'ement  from  the  limited  re- 
adjustments found  practicable  diu'ing  the  tests.  Analysis  of  the  test  re- 
sults has  shown  that  transmission  maintenance  methods  must  be  im- 
proved in  some  respects.  An  example  of  this  was  a  case  where  the  data 
indicated  several  trunks  to  be  affected  by  excessive  variation  from  some 
common  cauKC.  This  was  traced  to  a  group  pilot  being  out  of  limits.  If 
routine  maintenance  methods  had  indicated  this  difficulty  earlier,  the 
amount  of  time  in  which  service  could  have  been  affected  by  thesc^  trunks 
would  have  been  reduced.  This  is  important  because  of  the  difficulty  of 
finding  evidence  of  common  trouble  sources,  with  complex  layouts. 


INTERTOLL  TRUNK   NET   LOSS   MAINTENANCE  971 

The  scope  of  the  trial  was  then  limited  to  a  smaller  group  of  intertoll 
trunks  which  could  be  given  close  attention.  The  42  trunk  group  between 
Washington,  D.C.,  and  Atlanta,  Ga.,  was  selected  and  these  trunks  were 
put  through  rigorous  circuit  order  tests  and  adjustments  approaching 
the  completeness  of  initial  line-up  tests.  A  test  cycle  composed  of  trans- 
mission loss  measurements  made  on  the  42  trunks  in  both  directions 
was  performed  four  times  daily  for  a  period  of  about  five  months.  During 
the  period  covered  by  this  phase  of  the  trial,  adjustments  were  made 
only  as  indicated  by  carrier  pilot  ^'ariations,  by  deviations  from  specified 
net  loss  large  enough  to  operate  the  limit  feature  of  the  automatic  trans- 
mission test  and  control  circuit,  or  with  other  trouble  clearance. 

The  tests  for  each  day  were  analyzed  as  a  group.  On  the  first  day  the 
distribution  grade  of  the  deviations  from  specified  net  loss  for  the  group 
was  0.8  db  and  the  bias  was  +0.5  db.  On  the  last  day  the  distribution 
grade  was  1.2  db  and  the  bias  was  —0.25  db.  For  the  entire  group  of 
measurements  (584  test  cycles),  the  distribution  grade  of  the  deviations 
was  1.26  db  and  the  bias  was  —0.08  db.  This  represented  a  substantial 
improvement  over  the  results  obtained  in  the  first  phase  of  the  trial.  It 
showed  that  a  great  deal  can  be  accomplished  by  improving  the  circuit 
order  procedures  and  increasing  the  thoroughness  with  which  they  are 
carried  out. 

It  was  found  that  combination  carrier  trunks  composed  of  perma- 
nently connected  links,  thus  not  having  the  benefit  of  control  by  ter- 
minal-to-terminal pilots,  have  more  variability  than  individual  trunks 
having  over-all  pilots.  Adjustment  of  such  combination  trunks  requires 
coordinated  action  at  the  various  pilot  terminals  through  which  the 
trunk  passes,  in  order  that  readjustment  of  the  over-all  trunk  loss  can 
be  made  at  the  point  in  the  system  responsible  for  the  deviation.  In  the 
case  of  many  route  junctions,  the  complexity  of  the  layout  makes  it 
difficult  to  coordinate  the  necessary  measurements  at  several  points  so 
that  the  proper  point  for  adjustment  can  be  determined. 

NEED    FOR    EDUCATION 

The  complexity  of  carrier  system  layout  as  indicated  above,  has  im- 
posed a  difficult  task  on  the  plant  transmission  maintenance  forces.  Al- 
though our  present  transmission  maintenance  practices  seem  to  be  ade- 
cjuate  for  systems  in  simple  layouts,  some  expansion  appears  needed  for 
the  more  complex  layouts.  This  will  recjuire  further  study. 

It  is  important  to  keep  in  mind,  however,  that  the  pro\'ision  of  good 
practices  and  training  of  personnel  in  following  the  detailed  steps  therein 
are  not  in  themselves  sufficient  to  assure  good  transmission  maintenance. 
There  is  an  additional  need  for  education  of  plant  personnel  in  fundamen- 
tal considerations  affecting  operation  of  carrier  systems.  This  must  in- 


972  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 


elude  over-all  objectives,  inherent  capabilities  and  limitations,  and  the 
interrelation  of  functions  of  the  many  basic  blocks  comprising  carrier 
systems.  Personnel  so  educated  can  approach  the  problems  of  transmis- 
sion maintenance  with  understanding  and  avoid  the  maladjiistments 
and  troubles  due  to  "man-failure"  which  are  potential  hazards  in  any 
complex  systems. 

SUMMARY   AND    CONCLUSIONS 

In  summary,  the  problem  of  maintaining  satisfactory  transmission 
over  trunks  under  distance  dialing  involves,  primarily : 

1 .  Impro\dng  the  over-all  trunk  net  loss  stability  so  that  the  distribu- 
tion grade  does  not  exceed  1  db,  as  an  initial  objective. 

2.  Reducing  trunk  loss  bias  for  individual  offices  to  less  than  ±0.25  db. 

3.  Removing  from  operation  those  trunks  having  excessive  loss  devia- 
tions before  unfavorable  service  reactions  occur. 

To  do  these  things  in  the  face  of  the  increasing  complexity  of  our  plant 
and  the  absence  of  operator  surveillance  will  require  that: 

1 .  Individual  systems  have  adequate  short  term  stability  to  keep  day- 
to-day  variations  small. 

2.  Routine  tests  and  adjustments  be  made  on  individual  systems  and 
components  to  correct  for  long-term  deterioration. 

3.  Frequent  over-all  trunk  tests  be  made  to  locate  trunks  whose  per- 
formance is  beyond  acceptable  limits  and,  as  a  quality  control  measure, 
to  monitor  the  performance  of  the  trunk  plant. 

4.  Trunk  trouble-shooting  be  performed  on  a  well  coordinated  basis 
to  locate  and  correct  the  source  of  trouble.  (Compensating  maladjust- 
ments must  be  avoided.) 

Although  facilities  are  available  and  methods  are  known  for  doing 
some  of  these  things,  considerable  effort  is  required  as  follows: 

1.  Study  of  performance  of  individual  systems  to  determine  capabili- 
ties of  present  design  and  major  sources  contributing  to  over-all  trunk 
instability. 

2.  Study  of  transmission  maintenance  procedures,  both  routine  and 
trouble-shooting,  to  determine  the  proper  test  intervals  and  how  best 
the  procedures  can  be  carried  out  on  a  coordinated  basis. 

3.  Development  of  improvements  in  systems  and  test  facilities  as 
indicated  by  the  above  studies.  Convenience  is  an  important  factor  in 
test  arrangements. 

4.  Thorough  education  of  personnel  in  the  over-all  make-up,  function 
and  interrelation  of  systems  within  the  trunk  plant,  and  in  the  significance 
of  transmission  maintenance  in  pro\'iding  uniformly  good  and  depend- 
able transmission. 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not 
Published  in  This  Journal 

Abbott,  L.  E./  and  Pomeroy,  A.  F.^ 

How  To  Get  More  Range  From  An  Air  Gage,  Am.  Machinist,  100,  pp. 
113-115,  Feb.  27,  1956. 

Ahearn,  a.  J.,1  and  Law,  J.  T.^ 

Russell  Effect  in  Silicon  and  Germanium,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  Letter  to 
the  Editor,  24,  pp.  633-634,  Mar.,  1956. 

Anderson,  P.  W.,  see  Clogston,  A.  M. 

Arlt,  H.  G.i 

Standardization  of  Materials,  Standards  Engineering,  8,  pp.   6-7, 
Mar.,  1956. 

Bashkow,  T.  R} 

DC  Graphical  Analysis  of  Junction  Transistor  Flip-Flops,  A.I.E.E. 
Commiin.  and  Electronics.,  23,  pp.  1-6,  Mar.,  1956. 

Becker,  J.  A.,^  and  Brandes,  R.  G.^ 

A  Favorable  Condition  for  Seeing  Simple  Molecules  in  a  Field  Emis- 
sion Microscope,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  221-223,  Mar.,  1956. 

Bennett,  W.  R} 

Characteristics  and  Origins  of  Noise  —  Part  I.,  Electronics,  29,  pp. 
154-160,  Mar.,  1956. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Electrical  Noise  —  Part  II:  Noise  Generating  Equipment,  Electronics, 
29,  pp.  134-137,  Apr.,  1956. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Synthesis  of  Active  Networks,  Proc.  Symp.  Modern  Network  Syn- 
thesis, MRI  Symposia  Series,  5,  pp.  45-61,  1956. 

^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

973 


974  the  bell  system  technical  journal,  july 

Blecher,  F.  H.^ 

A  Junction  Transistor  Integrator,  Pioc.  National  Electronics  Con- 
ference, 11,  pp.  415-430,  Mar.  1,  1956. 

BoMMEL,  H.  E.,1  Mason,  W.  1\,'  and  Wainer,  A.  W.^ 

Dislocations,  Relaxations  and  Anelasticity  of  Crystal  Quartz,  Phys. 
Rev.,  102,  pp.  64-71,  Apr.  1,  1956. 

BOZORTH,   R.   M.i 

Quelques  Proprietes  Magnetiques,  Electrioques  Et  Optiques  Des 
Films  Obtenus  Par  Electrolyse  Et  Par  Evaporation  Thermique,  Le  J. 
De  Physique  Et  Le  Radium,  17,  pp.  256-262,  Mar.,  1956. 

BoYET,  H.,  see  Weisbaum,  S. 

Brady,  G.  W.^ 

X-Ray  Study  of  Tillurium  Oxide  Gas,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  Letter  to  the 
Editor,  24,  p.  477,  Feb.,  1956. 

Brandes,  R.  G.,  see  Becker,  J.  A. 

Brattain,  W.  H.,  see  Garrett,  C.  G.  B. 

Braun,  F.  A} 

Moimting  Scheme  for  Large  Cathodes,  Rev.  Sci.  Instr.,  Lab.  and 
Shop  Notes  Section,  27,  p.  113,  Feb.,  1956. 

Clogston,  a.  M.,1  Suhl,  H.,^  Walker,  L.  R.,^  and  Anderson,  P.  W.^ 

Possible  Source  of  Line  Width  in  Ferromagnetic  Resonance,  Phys. 
Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  101,  pp.  903-905,  Jan.  15,  1956. 

DE  Leeuw,  K.,^  Moore,  E.  F.,i  Shannon,  C.  E.,^  and  Shapiro,  N.^ 

Computability  by  Probabilistic  Machines,  Automata  Studies,  (Prince- 
ton Univ.  Press),  pp.  183-212,  Apr.,  1956. 

EiGLER,  J.  H.,  see  Sullivan,  M.  V. 

Fox,  A.  G.i 

Wave  Coupling  by  Warped  Normal  Modes,  LR.E.  Trans.,  PGMTT, 
3,  pp.  2-6,  Dec,  1955. 


^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


•3, 


TECHNICAL    PAPERS  975 

Francois,  E.  E.,  see  Law,  J.  T. 

Gardner,  I\I.  B.^ 

Speech  We  May  See,  Volta  Review,  58,  pp.  149-155,  Apr.,  1956. 

Garrett,  C.  G.  B.,^  and  Brattain,  W.  H.^ 

Some  Experiments  on,  and  a  Theory  of.  Surface  Breakdown,  J.  Appl. 
Phys.,  27,  pp.  299-306,  Mar.,  1956. 

Haynes,  J.  R.,^  and  Westphal,  W.  C.^ 

Radiation  Resulting  fron  Recombination  of  Holes  and  Electrons  in 
Silicon,  Phy«.  Kev.,  101,  pp.  1676-1678,  Alar,  lo,  1956. 

Herrmann,  D.  B.,  see  Williams,  J.  C. 

Kelly,  M.  J} 

Contributions   of  Research   to   Telephony  —  A   Look   at  Past   and 
Glance  into  Future,  Franklin  Inst.  J.,  261,  pp.  189-200,  Feb.,  1956. 

Kleimack,  J.  J.,  see  Wahl,  A.  J. 

Law,  J.  T.,1  and  Francois,  E.  E.^ 

Adsorption  of  Gases  on  Silicon  Surface,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  60,  pp.  353- 
358,  I\Iar.,  1956. 

Law,  J.  T.,  see  Ahearn,  A.  J. 

Lloyd,  S.  P.,i  and  McMillan,  B.i 

Linear  Least  Squares  Filtering  and  Prediction  of  Sampled  Signals, 
Proc.  Symp.,  PIE,  V,  pp.  221-247,  Apr.,  1955. 

Logan,  R.  A.^ 

Thermally  Induced  Acceptors  in  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp. 
1455-1459,  Mar.  1,  1956. 

Mason,  W.  P.^ 

Comments  on  Weertman's  Dislocation  Relaxation  Mechanism,  Phys. 
Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  101,  p.  1430,  Feb.,  15  1956. 

Mason,  W.  P.,  see  Bomniel,  H.  E. 

McMillan,  B.,  see  Lloyd,  S.  P. 
1  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


976  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   JULY    1956 

Mendel,  J.  T.^ 

Microwave  Detector,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  503-508,  Apr.,  1956. 

Merz,  W.  J.,  see  Remeika,  J.  P. 

Moore,  E.  F} 

Gedanken-Experiments  on  Sequential  Machines,  Automata  Studies 
(Princeton  Univ.  Press),  pp.  129-153,  Apr.,  1956. 

Moore,  E.  F.,  see  de  Leeuw,  K. 

PoMEROY,  A.  F.,  see  Abbott,  L.  E. 

Remeika,  J.  P.,^  and  Merz,  W.  J.^ 

Guanidine  Vanadium  Sulfate  Hexahydrate:  A  New  Ferroelectric 
Material,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  102,  p.  295,  Apr.  1,  1956. 

Robertson,  S.  D.^ 

Ultra-Bandwidth  Fmlme  Coupler,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  PGMTT,  3,  pp.  45- 
48,  Dec,  1955. 

Rose,  D.  J.^ 

On  the  Magnification  and  Resolution  of  the  Field  Emission  Electron 
Microscope,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  215-220,  Mar..,  1956. 

Shannon,  C.  E.,  see  de  Leeuw,  K. 

Shapiro,  N.,  see  de  Leeuw,  K. 
SUHL,  H.^ 

Subsidiary  Absorption  Peaks  in  Ferromagnetic  Resonance  at  High 
Signal  Levels,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  101,  pp.  1437-8, 
Feb.  15,  1956. 

SuHL,  H.,  see  Clogston,  A.  M. 

Sullivan,  M.  V.,^  and  Eigler,  J.  H.^ 

Five  Metal  Hydrides  as  Alloying  Agents  on  SiHcon,  J.  Electrochem. 
Soc,  103,  pp.  218-220,  Apr.,  1956. 

Sullivan,  M.  V.,^  and  Eigler,  J.  H.^ 

Electrolytic  Stream  Etching  of  Germanium,  J.  Electrochem.  Soc, 
103,  pp.  132-134,  Feb.,  1956. 

^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


technical  papers  977 

Trent,  R.  L.^ 

Design  Principles  of  Junction  Transistor  Audio  Amplifiers,  I.R.E. 
Trans.,  PQA,  3,  pp.  143-161,  Sept.-Oct.,  1955. 

Turner,  D.  R.^ 

The  Anode  Behavior  of  Germanium  in  Aqueous  Solutions,  J.  Electro- 
chem.  Soc,  103,  pp.  252-256,  Apr.,  1956. 

Uhlir,  A.,  Jr.^ 

High-Frequency  Shot  Noise  in  PN  Junctions,  Proc.  I.R.E. ,  Corre- 
spondence, 44,  pp.  557-558,  Apr.,  1956. 

Van  Haste,  W.^ 

Statistical  Techniques  for  a  Transmission  System,  A.I.E.E.  Commim. 
and  Electronics,  23,  pp.  50-54,  Mar.,  1956. 

Van  Haste,  W.^ 

Component  Reliability  in  a  Transmission  System,  Elec.  Engg.,  75,  p. 
413,  May,  1956. 

Van  Roosbroeck,  W.^ 

Theory  of  the  Photomagnetoelectric  Effect  in  Semiconductors,  Phys. 
Rev.,  101,  pp.  1713-1724,  Mar.  15,  1956. 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G.^ 

High  Resistivity  Nickel  Ferrites  —  The  Effects  of  Minor  Additions 
of  Manganese  or  Cobalt,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  24,  p.  306,  Feb.,  1956. 

Wahl,  a.  J.,^  and  Kleimack,  J.  J.^ 

Factors  Affecting  Reliability   of  Alloy  Junction   Transistors,   Proc. 
I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  494-502,  Apr.,  1956. 

Wainer,  a.  W.,  see  Bommel,  H.  E. 

Walker,  L.  R.,  see  Clogston,  A.  M. 

Weisbaum,  S.,^  and  Boyet,  H.^ 

A  Double-Slab  Ferrite  Field  Displacement  Isolator  at  11  KMC,  Proc. 
I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  554-555,  Apr.,  1956. 

Westpiial,  W.  C,  see  Haynes,  J.  R. 
^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


978       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

Williams,  J.  C.,^  and  Herrmann,  D.  B.^ 

Surface  Resistivity  of  Nonporous  Ceramic  and  Organic  Insulating 
Materials  at  High  Humidity  with  Observations  of  Associated  Silver 
Migration,  I.K.E.  Trans.,  PGRQC,  6,  pp.  11-20,  Feb.,  1956. 

WOLONTIS,    V.    M.l 

A  Complete  Floating-Decimal  Interpretive  System  for  the  IBM  650 
Magnetic  Drum  Calculator,  IBM  Technical  Newsletter,  11,  Mar., 
1956. 


Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


Recent  Monographs  of  Bell  System  Technical 
Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal* 

Arnold,  W.  O.,  and  Hoefle,  R.  R. 
A  System  Plan  for  Air  Traffic  Control,  Monograph  2483. 

Babcock,  W.  C,  Rentrop,  E.,  and  Thaeler,  C.  S. 
Crosstalk  on  Open-Wire  Lines,  Monograph  2520. 

Beck,  A.  C,  and  Mandeville,  G.  D. 

Microwave  Traveling- Wave  Tube  Millimicrosecond  Pulse  Gener- 
ators, Monograph  2551. 

BozoRTH,  R.  M.,  Williams,  H.  J.,  and  Walsh,  Dorothy  E. 

Magnetic  Properties  of  Some  Orthoferrites  and  Cyanides  at  Low 
Temperatures,  ]\Ionograph  2591. 

Bridgers,  H.  E. 

A  Modern  Semiconductor  —  Single -Crystal  Germanium,  Monograph 
2552. 

Cetlin,  B.  B.,  see  Gait,  J.  K. 

Chynoweth,  A.  G. 

Measuring  the  Pyroelectric  Effect  with  Special  Reference  to  Barium 
Titanate,  Monograph  2545. 

CoRENZwiT,  E.,  see  Matthias,  B.  T. 

Cutler,  C.  C. 

Spurious  Modulation  of  Electron  Beams,  ^Monograph  2543. 

Dail,  H.  W.,  Jr.,  see  Gait,  J.  K. 


*  Copies  of  these  monographs  ma}'  be  obtained  on  request  to  the  Publication 
Department,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  46.3  West  Street,  New  York  14. 
N.  Y.  The  numbers  of  the  monographs  should  be  given  in  all  requests. 

979 


980  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    1956  j 

1 

Davis,  H.  M,,  see  Wemick,  J.  H. 

Dbsoer,  C.  a. 

Iterative  Solution  of  Networks  of  Resistors  and  Ideal  Diodes,  Mono- 
graph 2583. 

Duncan,  R.  S.,  and  Stone,  H.  A.,  Jr. 

A  Survey  of  the  Application  of  Ferrites  to  Inductor  Design,  Mono- 
graph 2579. 

Feldman,  W.  L.,  see  Pearson,  G.  L. 

Fewer,  D.  R.,  see  Kircher,  R.  J. 

Fry,  Thornton  C. 

Mathematics  as  a  Profession  Today  in  Industry,  Monograph  2585. 

Galt,  J.  K.,  Yager,  W.  A.,  Merritt,  F,  R.,  Cetlin,  B.  B.,  and  Dail, 
H.  W.,  Jr. 

Cyclotron  Resonance  in  Metals:  Bismuth,  Monograph  2535. 
Geballe,  T.  H.,  see  Hrostowski,  H.  J. 

GlANOLA,  U.  F. 

Photovoltaic  Noise  in  SiUcon  Broad  Area  p-n  Jimctions,  Monograph 
2546. 

Goss,  A.  J.,  see  Hassion,  F.  X. 

Gyorgy,  E.  M.,  see  Heinz,  O. 

Hagelbarger,  D.  W.,  see  Pfann,  W.  G.;  also  Shannon,  C.  E. 

Harker,  K.  J. 

Periodic  Focusing  of  Beams  from  Partially  Shielded  Cathodes,  Mono- 
graph 2553. 

Hassion,  F.  X.,  Thurmond,  D.  C.,  Trumbore,  F.  A.,  and  Goss,  A.  J. 

Germanium:  on  the  Melting  Point;  on  the  Silicon  Phase  Diagram, 
Monograph  2489.  a 

Heidenreich,  R.  D.,  see  Williams,  H.  J. 


MONOGRAPHS  981 

Heinz,  0.,  Gyorgy,  E.  M.,  and  Ohl,  R.  S. 
Solid-State  Detector  for  Low-Energy  Ions,  Monograph  2568. 

Herrmann,  D.  B.,  see  Williams,  J.  C. 

HoEFLE,  R,  R.,  see  Arnold,  W.  0. 

Hrostowski,  H.  J.,  MoRiN,  F.  J.,  Geballe,  T,  H.,  and  Wheatley, 
G.  H. 

Hall  Effect  and  Conductivity  of  InSb,  Monograph  2586. 

Ingram,  S.  B. 

The  Graduate  Engineer  —  His  Training  and  Utilization  in  Industry, 
Monograph  2554. 

Kelly,  M.  J. 

Contributions  of  Research  to  Telephony,  Monograph  2590. 

Ketchledge,  R.  W. 
Distortion  in  Feedback  Amplifiers,  Monograph  2488. 

KiRCHER,  R.  J.,  Trent,  R.  L.,  and  Fewer,  D.  R. 

Audio  Amplifier  AppUcations  of  Junction  Transistors,  Monograph 
2484. 

KuH,  E.  S. 

Special  Synthesis  Techniques  for  Driving  Point  Impedance  Func- 
tions, Monograph  2581. 

Lee,  C.  Y. 

Similarity  Principle  with  Boundary  Conditions  for  Pseudo -Analytic 
Functions,  Monograph  2587, 

Mandeville,  G.  D.,  see  Beck,  A.  C. 

Matthias,  B.  T.,  and  Corenzwit,  E. 
Superconductivity  of  Zirconium  Alloys,  Monograph  2526. 

Merritt,  F.  R.,  see  Gait,  J.  K. 

Miller,  L.  E. 

Negative  Resistance  Regions  in  Collector  Characteristics  of  Point- 
Contact  Transistor,  Monograph  2574. 


982  THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    JULY    195G 

Moll,  J.  L.,  and  Ross,  I.  M. 

Dependence  of  Transistor  Parameters  on  Distribution  of  Base  Layer 
Resistivity,  Monograph  2575. 

Montgomery,  H.  C,  see  Pearson,  G.  L. 
MoRiN,  F.  J.,  see  Hrostowski,  H.  J. 
Nesbitt,  E.  a.,  see  Williams,  H.  J. 
Ohl,  R.  S.,  see  Heinz,  0. 

Owens,  CD. 

Stability  Characteristics  of  Molybdenum  Permalloy  Powder  Cores, 
Monograph  2576. 

Pearson,  G.  L.,  Montgomery,  H.  C.,  and  Feldmann,  W.  L. 
Noise  in  Silicon  p-n  Junction  Photocells,  Monograph  2555. 

Pedersen,  L. 

Aluminum  Die  Castings  for  Carrier  Telephone  Systems,  Monograph 
2593. 

Pederson,  D.  0. 

Regeneration  Analysis  of  Junction  Transistor  Multivibrators,  Mono- 
graph 2452. 

Pfann,  W.  G.,  and  Hagelbarger,  D.  W. 

Electromagnetic  Suspension  of  a  Molten  Zone,  Monograph  2556. 

Prince,  M.  B. 

High -Frequency   Silicon-Aluminum  Alloy  Junction   Diodes,   Mono- 
graph 2557. 

Rentrop,  E.,  see  Babcock,  W.  C. 

Ross,  I.  M.,  see  Moll,  J.  L. 

Schawlow,  A.  L. 

Structure  of  the  Intermediate  State  in  Superconductors,  Monograph 
25()9. 


MONOGRAPHS  983 

Shannon,  C.  E.,  and  Hagelbarger,  D.  W. 

Concavity  of  Resistance  Functions,  Monograph  2547. 

SiMKiNS,  Q.  W.,  and  Vogelsoxg,  J.  H. 

Transistor  Amplifiers  for  Use  in  a  Digital  Computer,  Monograph  2548. 

Snoke,  L.  E. 

Specific  Studies  on  Soil-Block  Procedure  for  Bioassay  of  Wood  Pre- 
servatives, Monograph  2577. 

SOUTHWORTH,    G.    C. 

Early  History  of  Radio  Astronomy,  Monograph  2544. 
Stone,  H.  A.,  Jr.,  see  Duncan,  R.  S. 

Tanner,  T.  L. 

Current    and    Voltage-Metering    Magnetic    Amplifiers,    Monograph 

2582. 

Thaeler,  C.  S.,  see  Babcock,  W.  C. 
Thurmond,  D.  C,  see  Hassion,  F.  X. 
Trent,  R.  L.,  see  Kircher,  R.  J. 
Trumbore,  F.  A.,  see  Hassion,  F.  X. 
Ulrich,  W.,  see  Yokelson,  B.  J. 
YoGELSONG,  J.  H.,  see  Simkins,  Q.  W. 
Walsh,  Dorothy  E.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Wernick,  J.  H.,  and  Davis,  H.  M. 

Preparation  and  Inspection  of  High-Purity  Copper  Single  Crystals, 

Monograph  2571. 

Wheatley,  G.  H.,  see  Hrostowski,  H.  J. 
Williams,  H.  J.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Williams,  H.  J.,  Heidenreich,  R.  D.,  and  Nesbitt,  E.  A. 

How  Cobalt  Ferrite  Heat  Treats  in  a  Magnetic  Field,  Monograph 

2558. 


984       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

Williams,  J.  C,  and  Herrmann,  D.  B. 

Surface  Resistivity  of  Non-Porous  Ceramic  and  Organic  Insulating 
Materials,  Monograph  2560. 

Yager,  W.  A.,  see  Gait,  J.  K. 

YoKELSON,  B.  J.,  and  Ulrich,  W. 
Engineering  Multistage  Diode  Logic  Circuits,  Monograph  2592. 


Contributors  to  This  Issue 

Arthur  B.  Crawford,  B.S.E.E.  1928,  Ohio  State  University;  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  1928-.  Mr.  Crawford  has  been  engaged  in  radio 
research  since  he  joined  the  Laboratories.  He  has  worked  on  ultra  short 
wave  apparatus,  measuring  techniques  and  propagation;  microwave 
apparatus,  measuring  techniques  and  radar,  and  microwave  propagation 
studies  and  microwave  antenna  research.  He  is  author  or  co-author  of 
articles  which  appeared  in  The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal,  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  I.R.E.,  Nature,  and  the  Bulletin  of  the  American  Me- 
teorological Society.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  the  I.R.E.  and  a  member  of  Sigma 
Xi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  and  Pi  Mu  Epsilon. 

C.  Chapin  Cutler,  B.S.  1937,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  1937-.  Mr.  Cutler's  early  work  was  in  research 
related  to  the  problems  of  the  short  wave  multiplex  radio  transmitter. 
During  World  War  H  he  was  engaged  in  research  on  the  proximity  fuse 
and  microwave  antennas  for  radar  use.  Since  the  war  he  has  been  con- 
cerned with  research  on  the  microwave  amplifier  and  the  traveling  wave 
tube.  Mr.  Cutler  is  a  member  of  the  LR.E.  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Harry  H.  Felder,  B.S.  in  Electrical  and  Mechanical  Engineering, 
ClemsonA.  and  M.,  1918.  After  some  months  in  the  U.  S.  Signal  Corps 
he  joined  the  Engineering  Department  of  the  American  Telephone  and 
Telegraph  Company  in  1919.  He  joined  the  Laboratories  in  1934.  He 
has  been  engaged  in  general  transmission  problems  in  connection  with 
telephone  repeater  development  and  toll  circuit  layout  and  switching. 
During  World  War  H,  Mr.  Felder  assisted  in  the  development  of  a 
method  of  lapng  telephone  wires  from  airplanes.  Since  that  time  he  has 
continued  to  work  on  the  transmission  aspects  of  intertoll  trunk  design, 
switching,  maintenance  and  loading.  He  was  also  associated  with  adapt- 
ing of  cable  carrier  circuits  for  radio  broadcast  networks.  Mr.  Felder  is  a 
member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

J.  H.  FoRSTER,  B.A.  1944,  M.A.  1946,  University  of  British  Colum- 
bia; Ph.D.  1953,  Purdue  University;  Bell  Laboratories  1953-.  Since  join- 
ing the  Laboratories,  Dr.  Forster  has  been  engaged  in  research  on  semi- 

985 


986       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

conductor  devices  including  point-contact  transistor  development, 
transistor  reliability  studies  and  the  development  of  low-noise  alloy- 
transistors.  He  also  served  as  instructor  of  semiconductor  electronics  in 
the  Laboratories  Communications  Development  Training  program.  At 
present  he  is  engaged  in  surface  studies  and  semiconductor  device  re- 
liability. Member  of  Sigma  Pi  Sigma  and  Sigma  Xi. 

David  C.  Hogg,  B.SC,  University  of  Western  Ontario,  1949;  M.Sc. 
and  Ph.D.,  McGill  University,  1950  and  1953.  Dr.  Hogg  joined  Bell 
Telephone  Laboratories  in  July  1953  and  has  worked  at  the  Holmdel 
Laboratory.  He  has  been  engaged  in  studies  of  artificial  dielectrics  for 
microwaves,  antenna  problems,  and  over-the-horizon  and  millimeter 
wave  propagation  as  a  member  of  the  Radio  Research  Department. 
During  World  War  II  Dr.  Hogg  was  in  the  Canadian  Army  and  spent 
five  years  in  Europe.  From  1950  to  1951  he  was  engaged  in  research  for 
the  Defense  Research  Board  of  Canada.  He  is  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi. 

John  L.  Kelly,  Jr.,  B.A.  in  1950,  M.A.  in  1952,  and  Ph.D.  in  1953, 
all  in  Physics  at  the  L^niversity  of  Texas.  Dr.  Kelly  joined  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories  in  1953  as  a  member  of  the  Television  Research  De- 
partment at  the  Murray  Hill  Laboratory.  He  has  been  engaged  in  ex- 
perimental work  on  the  nature  of  television  pictures  as  w^ll  as  theoretical 
investigations  pertaining  to  applications  of  the  Information  Theory  to 
television.  In  1944  he  was  commissioned  a  Navy  pilot  and  served  three 
years. 

Archie  P.  King,  B.S.  California  Institute  of  Technology,  1927.  After 
three  years  with  the  Seismological  Laboratory  of  the  Carnegie  Institu- 
tion of  Washington,  Mr.  King  joined  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in 
1930.  Since  then  he  has  been  engaged  in  ultra-high-frequency  radio  re- 
search at  the  Holmdel  Laboratory,  particularly  with  waveguides.  For  the 
last  ten  years  Mr.  King  has  concentrated  his  efforts  on  waveguide  trans- 
mission and  waveguide  transducers  and  components  for  low-loss  circular 
electric  wave  transmission.  He  holds  at  least  a  score  of  patents  in  the 
waveguide  field.  Mr.  King  was  cited  by  the  Navy  for  his  World  War  II 
radar  contributions.  He  is  a  Senior  Member  of  the  I.R.E.  and  is  a  Mem- 
])er  of  the  American  Physical  Society. 

J.  G.  LiNviLL,  A.B.,  William  Jewell  College,  1941 ;  S.B.  in  1943,  S.M. 
in  1945  and  Sc.D.  in  1949,  all  in  electrical  engineering  at  Massachusetts 
Institute  of  Technology.  Dr.  Linvill  served  at  M.  I.  T.  as  assistant  pro- 


' 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO    THIS   ISSUE  987 

fessor  in  electrical  engineering  from  1949  to  1951  and  was  a  consultant 
to  Sylvania  Electrical  Products.  He  joined  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 
in  1951  and  worked  on  active  network  problems  involving  applications 
of  transistors  as  the  active  element.  In  March,  1955,  he  became  Asso- 
ciate Professor  of  Electrical  Engineering  at  Stanford  University.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers,  Institute 
of  Radio  Engineers,  Sigma  Xi,  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu. 

Edward  N.  Little,  A.B.,  Yale,  1916;  S.B.,  Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology,  1919;  Signal  Corps  and  Air  Service  Radio  Officer  training. 
World  War  I.  Joined  Long  Lines  Department  of  A.  T.  &  T.  in  1919  to 
work  on  transmission  studies.  Transferred  to  Transmission  Section  of 
0.  &  E.  Department  in  1922  in  work  dealing  with  telephone  repeaters. 
Nine  years  later  joined  the  group  working  on  transmission  maintenance, 
and  since  then  has  worked  principally  on  various  phases  of  voice- 
frequency  toll  transmission  maintenance.  For  the  last  eight  years  he  has 
been  working  on  the  problems  of  intertoll  trunk  transmission  mainte- 
nance posed  by  the  advent  of  nationwide  intertoll  dialing  with  full  auto- 
matic alternate  routing.  One  angle  of  this  work  has  been  the  develop- 
ment and  application  of  statistical  analyses  as  tools  for  helping  to  attain 
the  required  reduction  in  net  loss  variations. 

Enrique  A.  J.  Marcatili,  University  of  Cordoba,  Argentina.  Mr. 
Marcatili  was  awarded  the  Argentine  title  of  Aeronautical  Engineer  in 
1947  and  the  title  of  Electrical  Engineer  in  1948.  He  received  a  Gold 
Medal  from  the  University  of  Cordoba  for  the  highest  scholastic  record. 
He  joined  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in  1954  after  studies  of  Cherenkov 
radiation  in  Cordoba,  and  has  been  engaged  in  waveguide  research  at 
Holmdel.  Specifically,  Mr.  Marcatili  has  been  concerned  with  the  theory 
and  design  of  filters  in  the  ixdllimeter  region  to  separate  channels  in  w^ave- 
guides.  He  has  published  technical  articles  in  Argentina  and  belongs  to 
the  A.  F.  A.  (Physical  Association  of  Argentina). 

Lewis  E.  Miller,  B.S.  in  Engineering  Physics,  Lafayette  College, 
1949;  General  Aniline  and  Film  Corp.,  1949-1952;  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  1952-.  Since  joining  the  Laboratories  Mr.  Miller  has 
specialized  in  the  development  of  transistors.  His  early  work  was  on  the 
development  for  manufacture  of  the  point-contact  transistor.  From  1954 
to  May  1956  he  was  concerned  with  surface  problems  and  the  develop- 
ment of  germanium  alloy  transistors.  At  present  he  is  concentrating  on 
diffused  silicon  transistors.  Mr.  Miller  is  a  member  of  the  American 
Physical  Society. 


988       THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  JULY  1956 

A.  J.  Pascarella,  E.E.,  Columbia  University,  1916.  After  his  gradu- 
ation he  entered  the  student  course  of  the  General  Electric  Company  at 
Schenectad3^  Shortly  after  our  entrance  into  World  War  I,  Mr.  Pasca- 
rella joined  the  U.  S.  Navy  and  was  put  in  charge  of  the  electrical  labora- 
tory of  the  Gas  Engine  School  at  Columbia.  In  1921  he  joined  the 
Western  Electric  Company  and  in  1925  the  Technical  Staff  of  the  Labo- 
ratories. Here  with  the  Systems  Department  he  was  concerned  with  the 
development  of  toll  testboards,  toll  signaling,  telegraph,  carrier  and 
miscellaneous  testing  equipment.  Later  his  work  consisted  of  formu- 
lating maintenance  requirements  for  the  over-all  testing  of  toll  lines 
and  the  detecting  and  location  of  faults  on  toll  cables.  During  World 
War  II  he  was  concerned  with  developing  high  level  auditory  systems 
for  use  in  psychological  warfare.  He  also  acted  as  editor  of  repair  manuals 
used  by  the  Armed  Services.  At  the  present  time  he  is  working  on  mili- 
tary projects.  Licensed  Professional  Engineer,  New  York  State. 

L.  G.  ScHiMPF,  B.E.E.,  Ohio  State  University,  1937;  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  1937-.  From  1937  to  1940  Mr.  Schimpf  was  engaged  in  re- 
search on  the  application  of  electronic  devices  to  switching  functions, 
with  particular  emphasis  on  cold  cathode  tubes.  With  the  outbreak  of 
World  War  II,  he  turned  his  attention  to  research  and  development  work 
on  military  projects.  For  six  years  after  the  war  he  specialized  in  trans- 
mission research  studies  of  local  subscriber  station  circuits  and  acoustics. 
Since  1952  he  has  been  engaged  in  transistor  circuit  research.  In  this  field 
he  has  concentrated  particularly  on  the  high  frequency  operation  of 
transistors  in  transmission  circuits.  Senior  Member  of  I.R.E.,  member 
of  Acoustical  Society  of  America,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

H.  F.  Shoffstall,  B.E.E.,  Ohio  State  University,  1916;  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  1916-35;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, 1935-.  Mr.  Shoffstall  worked  on  the  development  of  telephone  re- 
peaters and  on  toll  equipment  for  central  offices  until  he  came  to  the 
Laboratories  in  1935.  Since  then  he  has  been  associated  with  the  switch- 
ing development  group  engaged  in  the  design  of  toll-switching  circuits. 
Member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers. 

Harold  Seidel,  B.E.E.,  College  of  the  City  of  New  York,  1943; 
M.E.E.,  D.E.E.,  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn,  1947  and  1954.  Dr. 
Seidel  joined  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in  1953  after  employment  with 
the  Microwave  Research  Institute  of  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brook- 
lyn, the  Arma  Corporation  and  the  Federal  Telecommunications  Labora- 


I 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO   THIS   ISSUE  989 

tories.  His  work  at  the  Laboratories  has  been  concerned  with  general 
electromagnetic  problems,  especially  regarding  waveguide  applications, 
and  with  analysis  of  microwave  ferrite  devices.  Dr.  Seidel  is  a  member 
of  Sigma  Xi  and  the  I.R.E. 

S.  Weisbaum,  B.A.,  M.S.  and  Ph.D.,  New  York  University,  1947, 
1948  and  1953;  instructor  in  physics,  New  York  University,  1950-53; 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1953-.  Since  joining  the  Laboratories,  Dr. 
Weisbaum  has  specialized  in  the  development  of  microwave  ferrite  de- 
vices, such  as  isolators  and  circulators.  He  is  a  member  of  the  American 
Physical  Society  and  Sigma  Xi. 


HE      BELL      SYSTEM 


meal  lournal 


OTED    TO    THE    SCIENTIFIC   ^^^     AND    ENGINEERING 
»ECTS    OF    ELECTRICAL    COMMUNICATION 


UME  XXXV  SEPTEMBER    1956  NUMBER  5 


Electronics  in  Telephone  Switching  Systems  a.  e.  joel     991 

Combined  Measurements  of  Field  Effect,  Surface  Photo-Voltage 
and  Photo-Conductivity     w.  h.  brattain  and  c.  g.  b.  garrett  1019 

Distribution  and  Cross-Sections  of  Fast  States  on  Germaniimi 
Surfaces  c.  g.  b.  garrett  and  w.  h.  brattain  1041 

Transistorized  Binary  Pulse  Regenerator  l.  r,  wrathall  1059 

Transistor  Pulse  Regenerative  Amplifiers  f.  h.  tendick,  jr.  1085 

Observed  5-6  mm  Attenuation  for  the  Circular  Electric  Wave  in 
Small  and  Medium-Sized  Pipes  a.  p.  king  1115 

Automatic  Testing  in  Telephone  Manufacture  d.  t.  robb  1129 

Automatic  Manufacturing  Testing  of  Relay  Switching  Circuits 

L.  D.  HANSEN    1155 

Automatic  Machine  for  Testing  Capacitors  and  Resistance-Capaci- 
tance Networks  c.  c.  cole  and  h.  r.  shillington  1179 

A  60-Foot  Diameter  Parabolic  Antenna  for  Propagation  Studies 

A,  B.  CRAWFORD,  H.  T.  FRIIS  AND  W.  C.  JAKES,  JR.    1199 

The  Use  of  an  Interference  Microscope  for  Measurement  of  Ex- 
tremely Thin  Surface  Layers  w.  l.  bond  and  f.  m.  smits  1209 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal  1223 

Recent  Bell  System  Monographs  1230 

Contributors  to  This  Issue  1233 


COPYRIGHT  1956  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE   AND  TELEGRAPH   COMPANY 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL 


ADVISORY    BOARD 

F.  R.  KAPPEL,  President,  Western  Electric  Company 

M.  J.  KEiiLY,  President,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 

E.  J.  McNEELY,  Executive  Vice  President,  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

EDITORIAL    COMMITTEE 


B.  MCMILLAN,  Chairman 

A.  J.   BUSCH 
A.  C.   DICKIESON 
R.   L.   DIETZOLD 
K.  E.   GOULD 
E.    I.  GREEN 


R.  K.  HONAMAN 
H. R. HUNTLEY 
F.   R.   LACK 
J.  R.   PIERCE 
H.   V.   SCHMIDT 
G. N. THAYER 


EDITORIAL    STAFF 

J.  D,  TEBo,  Editor 

R.  L.  SHEPHERD,  Production  Editor 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a  year 
by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  195  Broadway,  New  York 
7,  N.  Y.  Cleo  F.  Craig,  President;  S.  Whitney  Landon,  Secretary;  John  J.  Scan- 
Ion,  Treasurer.  Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $3.00  per  year.  Single  copies  are 
75  cents  each.  The  foreign  postage  is  65  cents  per  year  or  11  cents  per  copy.  Printed 
in  U.  S.  A. 


THE   BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 

VOLUME  XXXV  SEPTEMBER   1956  number  5 

Copyright  1956,  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

Electronics  in  Telephone  Switching 

Systems 

By  A.  E.  JOEL 

(Manuscript  received  March  18,  1956) 

In  recent  years  a  number  of  fundamentals  has  been  discovered  through 
research  which  place  new  tools  at  the  disposal  of  the  circuit  and  system  de- 
signers. Examples  of  this  ^'new  art"  are  concepts  such  as  information 
theory,  dealing  with  the  quantization  and  transmission  of  information,  and 
solid  state  principles  from  which  have  developed  the  transitor  and  other  de- 
vices. This  paper  surveys  certain  new  art  principles,  techniques  and  devices 
as  they  apply  to  the  design  of  new  telephone  switching  systems. 

Over  the  past  forty  years  a  great  background  and  fund  of  knowledge 
has  developed  in  the  field  of  telephone  switching.  Constant  improvement 
in  available  devices  has  resulted  in  increasing  the  scope  of  their  appli- 
cation. The  field  has  almost  reached  a  point  of  perfection  as  an  art  and 
is  now  rapidly  entering  a  more  scientific  era. 

The  tools  of  the  present  day  telephone  system  design  engineer  are 
well  known  and  some  are  illustrated  in  Figure  1.  These  are  the  relay 
and  the  various  forms  of  electromechanical  switching  apparatus.  But 
over  the  years,  while  the  art  employing  these  tools  was  developing, 
the  field  of  electronics  has  also  been  developing.  Its  applications  were 
most  needed  when  dealing  with  its  characteristics  of  sensitivity  rather 

991 


992        THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   SEPTEMBER    1956 


^i''^   *t^s^<iS  ^       '</g^pi^f.% 


Fig.  1  —  Typical  telephone  relays  and  switches. 


ELECTRONICS   IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING    SYSTEMS 


993 


than  speed.  Even  in  the  telephone  switching  field,  this  property  of 
electronics  has  made  its  inroads  to  provide  us  with  better  signaling  and 
more  accurate  timing. 

It  was  not,  however,  until  World  War  II  that  the  speed  advantages 
of  electronics  were  exploited.  This  exploitation  came  primarily  in  the 
quantizing  of  information,  both  in  transmission  and  information  proc- 
essing equipment.  In  the  latter  field  new  digital  computers  made  their 
appearance.  These  machines  brought  forth  the  development  of  new 
forms  of  electronic  devices,  most  important  of  which  are  those  classified 
as  "bulk  memory"  devices.^  Later  in  this  paper  the  characteristics  of 
many  of  these  devices  will  be  discussed  in  more  detail. 

In  the  post-war  period  the  exploitation  of  another  phase  of  electronics 
developed  from  research  in  semiconductor  devices.  The  transistor  is 
perhaps  the  best  known  invention  to  emerge  from  these  investigations. 
The  impact  of  the  application  of  semiconductor  devices  is  yet  to  be 
felt  in  the  electronics  industry  and  it  will  most  likely  find  greatest 
application  in  the  information  processing  field  and  in  communications 
generally. 

Before  one  may  understand  and  appreciate  the  impact  electronics 
will  have  on  the  design  of  new  telephone  switching  systems  it  is  nec- 
essary to  consider  the  question:  "What  is  a  Telephone  Switching  Sys- 
tem?" By  evolution  it  is  now^  generally  recognized  that  the  central 
office  portion  of  a  telephone  switching  system  consists  of  two  prin- 
cipal parts  and  certain  physical  and  operational  characteristics  of  these 
parts.  These  parts,  as  illustrated  in  Figure  2,  are  the  interconnecting 
network,  or  conversation  channel,  and  its  control. 

In  some  switching  systems,  particularly  those  of  the  progressive 


LINES- 


SWITCHING  NETWORK 


CONC 


N  I 
T  I 


GATHERING 


DIST 


EXP 


CONTROL 


INFORMATION 

PROCESSINGS 

INTERPRETING 


-TRUNKS 


EFFECTING 


Fig.  2  —  Principal  parts  of  common  control  telephone  switching  system. 


i 


994        THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


direct  control  type,  such  as  the  step-by-step  system,  these  parts  are 
inexorably  integrated.  But  in  the  modern  systems  they  have  largely 
been  separated.  For  purposes  of  the  following  discussion  this  type  of 
sj^stem,  viz.,  common  control,  will  be  assumed.  The  bulk  nature  of  thei 
electronic  memory  devices  makes  them  more  readily  adaptable  to  sys- 
tems of  the  common  control  type,  where  the  control  functions  con- 
sisting of  the  receipt,  interpretation,  and  processing  of  input  signals  and 
the  effecting  of  output  signals  may  be  concentrated. 

INTERCONNECTING   NETWORK 

In  electromechanical  switching  systems  the  interconnecting  network 
is  composed  of  crossbar  switches  or  other  electromechanical  devices. 
Each  connection  through  the  network  is  physically  separated  in  space 
from  the  others  and  hence  the  type  of  network  can  be  called  generically 
a  "Space  Division"  type  of  network.  Such  networks  are  subdivided 
functionally.  First  there  is  the  concentration  stage  where  active  lines 
are  separated  from  those  not  being  called  or  served  at  a  particular  time. 
Next  there  is  distribution  stage  where  interconnection  of  active  lines 
and  trunks  is  accomplished.  Finally  there  may  be  an  expansion  stage 
where  active  call  paths  are  connected  to  selected  destinations. 

In  electronic  switching  systems  three  classes  of  switching  networks 
have  been  described. 2    These  are: 

a.  "Space  Division"  similar  to  the  space  division  for  electromechani- 
cal apparatus  except  that  electronic  devices  such  as  gas  tubes  are 
employed  in  place  of  mechanical  contacts  as  the  crosspoint  element.'^ 

b.  "Time  Division"  where  calls  are  sampled  in  time,  each  one  being 
given  a  "time  slot"  on  a  single  channel.^ -^ 

c.  "Frequency  Division"  such  as  employed  in  carrier  systems  where 
each  call  is  modulated  to  a  different  frequency  level  on  a  single  trans- 
mission medium.  ^'^ 

Thus  in  electronic  switching  the  interconnecting  networks  derive 
their  basic  characteristics  from  the  known  methods  of  telephone  trans- 
mission. Since  transmission  techniques  are  used  it  is  generally  not 
feasible  to  pass  direct  current  signals  through  such  networks.  Also 
certain  ac  signals  such  as  20-cycle  current  now  used  for  ringing  are  of 
such  a  high  power  level  that  they  would  overload  the  electronic  switch- 
ing devices  employed.  For  this  reason  it  appears  that  to  accomplish 
switching  with  an  electronic  interconnecting  network  a  change  is  re- 
quired in  the  customer's  apparatus  to  make  it  capable  of  responding  to 
a  lower  level  ac  for  the  call  signal.  Telephone  sets  with  transistor  ampli- 
fiers and  an  acoustical  horn  are  being  developed.  (See  Fig.  3.)  Interrupted 


ELECTRONICS   IN  TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS 


995 


tones  in  the  voice  frequency  range  can  be  used  effectively  to  call  the 
user  to  the  telephone.^ 

As  in  most  electromechanical  switching  networks,  the  concepts  of 
connecting  successive  stages  of  switching  devices  (stages  to  perform 
the  functions  of  concentration,  distribution  and  expansion)  to  form 
the  network  also  apply.  Since  there  is  more  than  one  method  of  inter- 
connection, the  successive  stages  of  a  network  may  employ  different 
switching  techniques  —  electronic,  electromechanical,  or  both.  In 
electromechanical  switching,  different  devices  may  also  be  used  in 
different  stages. 

In  electromechanical  space  division  networks  certain  types  of  cross- 
points  are  more  adapted  to  common  control  operation  than  others. 
Systems  with  electromechanical  selector  switches  most  generally  are 
set  progressively.  In  systems  with  relays  or  relay-like  crosspoints  all 
crosspoints  involved  in  a  connection  may  be  actuated  simultaneously. 
In  either  case  the  switching  device,  or  the  circuit  in  which  it  is  used, 
has  a  form  of  memory.  This  memory,  shown  as  a  square  labeled  M  in 
Fig.  4,  may  be  the  ability  of  a  selector  to  remain  mechanically  held  in  a 
particular  path  connecting  position  or  in  a  locking  or  holding  circuit 
associated  with  a  crosspoint  relay  or  crossbar  switch  magnet. 

To  minimize  the  time  consumed  by  the  common  control  elements, 
simultaneous  operation  of  relay  or  relay-like  crosspoints  is  most  de- 
sirable. However,  this  type  of  network  requires  a  grid  of  link  testing 
and  control  leads  such  as  shown  in  Fig.  5  for  a  typical  stage  of  a  cross- 
bar switching  network.  In  a  network  of  this  type  the  calling  rate  ca- 
pacity is  limited  by  the  slow  actuating  speed  of  the  electromechanical 
relay  or  switch.  Efficient  network  configurations  can  be  devised  for 


Fig.  3  —  Tone  ringer  telephone  set. 


996        THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHXICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

large  capacity.  To  set  up  connections  at  a  high  rate  in  such  a  network 
requires  a  pluraHty  of  controls  each  capable  of  operating  on  all  or  part 
of  the  network.  In  any  case,  the  controls  function  in  parallel  on  the 
network  because  of  the  speed  considerations. 

With  electronics  applied  to  space  division  switching  networks,  two 
improvements  over  the  operation  of  relay  type  space  division  networks 
may  be  achieved.  First,  the  speed  of  operation  of  the  crosspoint  elements 
may  be  made  high  enough  so  that  only  one  control  is  needed  to  operate 
on  networks  of  the  size  now  requiring  a  plurality  of  controls.  Second, 
the  properties  of  proposed  electronic  crosspoint  elements  are  such  that 
the  principle  of  "end-marking"  may  be  employed. 

In  contrast  to  the  grid  of  testing  and  actuating  wires  required  in 
electromechanical  versions  of  space  division  networks,  the  electronic 
space  division  switching  network  requires  only  the  selectors  at  each  end 
of  a  desired  network  connection  to  apply  the  marking  potentials.  (This 
is  what  is  meant  by  "end-marking";  see  Fig.  6).  The  electronic  cross- 


I  o 


•C- 


-^ 


2  O- 


m 


z 


a 


-> 


-O  A 


m 

A 


-O  8 


m 

b 


m 

B 


Fig.  4  —  Space  division  switching. 


CROSSBAR 
SWITCHING    NETWORK 


Dn 


^B. 


^ 


[} 


X  )( 


COMMON    CONTROL 
(MARKER) 


):  )? 


NETWORK 
CONNECTOR 


Fig.  5  —  Typical  common  control  of  a  crossbar  switching  network. 


ELECTRONICS    IN    TELEPHONE    SWITCHING    SYSTEMS 


997 


point  element  will  be  actuated  if  the  link  to  which  it  connects  is  idle. 
h]ventually  all  available  paths  between  input  and  output  will  be 
marked.  Means  must  be  provided  for  sustaining  only  one  of  the  possible 
idle  paths.  Here  the  memory  property  of  the  crosspoint  device  takes  over 
to  hold  the  path  until  it  is  released  by  release  marks  or  removal  of  the 
sustaining  voltages.  So  it  may  be  seen  that  in  space  division  networks 
the  memory  requirements  must  be  satisfied  the  same  as  in  electrome- 
chanical networks. 

Multiplexing  and  carrier  transmission  systems^  employ  time  and  fre- 
quency division  but  the  physical  terminals  at  both  ends  of  a  channel 
for  which  the  facilities  are  derived  have  a  one-to-one  correspondence 
Avhich  can  only  be  changed  manually.  In  a  switching  system  means 
must  be  provided  to  change  automatically  the  input-output  relations 
as  required  for  each  call.  Here  the  need  arises  for  a  changeable  memory 
for  associating  a  given  time  or  fref[uency  slot  to  a  particular  call  at  any 
given  time.  At  some  other  time  these  points  in  time  or  frequency  must 
be  capable  of  being  assigned  automatically  to  different  inputs  and  out- 
puts. For  the  period  that  they  are  assigned,  some  form  of  memory  must 
record  this  assignment  and  this  memory  is  consulted  continuously  or 
periodically  for  the  duration  of  the  call. 

With  time  division  switching  this  new  concept  in  the  use  of  memory 
in  a  switching  network  appears  most  clearly,  see  Fig.  7(a).  To  associate 
an  input  with  an  output  during  a  time  slot  the  memory  must  be  con- 
sulted which  associates  the  particular  input  with  the  particular  output. 
To  effect  the  connection  during  a  time  slot  the  input  and  output  must 
be  selected  A  memory  is  consulted  to  operate  simultaneously  high  speed 

GAS    TUBE 
SWITCHING    NETWORK 


Fig.  6  —  Typical  "End  Marking"  control  of  a  gas  tube  switching  network. 


998         THE    RET.L    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL    JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

selectors  for  both  the  input  and  output.  Each  selector  receives  informa- 
tion from  a  memory  which  actuates  crosspoints  to  associate  the  input 
or  output  with  the  common  transmission  medium.  The  information 
from  the  memory  which  controls  the  selection  process  is  known  as  an 
"address".  The  crosspoint  is  non-locking  since  it  must  open  when  the 
selector  receives  its  next  address.  The  individual  memory  of  crosspoints 
for  space  division  networks  has  thus  been  changed  by  time  division  to 
changeable  memory,  usually  in  the  form  of  a  coded  address  associated 
with  each  time  slot.  Furthermore  since  the  successive  addresses  actuate 
the  same  selectors  and  hence  may  be  held  in  a  common  high  speed 
device,  electronic  bulk  memory  is  ideally  suited  for  this  task.  The 
memory  must  be  changeable  to  allow  for  different  associations  of  input 
to  output  at  different  times. 

In  frequency  division  the  control  characteristics  of  the  interconnect- 
ing network  require  a  modulation  frequency  to  be  assigned  each  simul- 
taneous conversation  to  be  applied  within  the  bandwidth  of  the  com- 
mon medium.  As  shown  in  Fig.  7(b)  the  application  of  the  modulation 
frequencies  requires  a  separate  selector  for  each  input  and  output.  These 


I  o- 
20- 


1 


-O  A 
-OB 


COMMON 
MEDIUM 


Fig.  7(a)  —  Time  division  switching. 

selectors  are  nothing  more  than  space  division  switching  networks  and 
therefore  require  memory  in  the  switching  devices  whether  they  are 
electromechanical  or  electronic. 

In  addition  to  memory  for  associations  within  the  switching  network, 
selecting  means  are  also  needed  to  activate  a  terminal  to  be  chosen  in 
space  division  (e.g..  Fig.  6),  to  place  address  information  in  the  proper 
time  slot  in  time  division  switching  or  to  set  the  frequency  applying 
switching  network  in  frequency  division. 

CONTEOL 


The  control  of  the  switching  system  provides  the  facilities  for  receiv- 
ing, interpreting  and  acting  on  the  information  placed  into  it.  In  par- 


ELECTRONICS   IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS 


999 


20 


Fig.  7(b)  —  Frequency  division  switching. 


ticular  this  is  the  address  of  the  output  desired.  A  service  request  de- 
tector (SR-D)  is  provided  for  each  hne  or  trunk. 

In  electromechanical  systems  these  logic  and  information  gathering 
functions  are  performed  by  relays  or  electromechanical  switches.  In 
order  to  keep  up  with  the  flow  of  information  from  a  large  number  of 
customers,  a  number  of  register  circuits  must  be  provided  to  perform 
the  same  function  simultaneously  on  different  calls.  Here  information 
is  being  gathered  on  a  "space  division"  basis  and  therefore  a  control 
switching  network  may  be  visualized  as  depicted  in  Fig.  8.  The  regis- 
ters designated  R-M  constitute  the  memory  used  to  store  the  input  in- 
formation as  it  is  being  received  in  a  sequential  manner  from  lines  and 
trunks.  As  in  the  case  of  the  conversation  switching  network,  a  space 
division  control  switching  network  has  been  used  in  electromechanical 
systems  because  the  speed  of  these  devices  is  not  adequate  to  accom- 
modate the  rate  at  which  information  flows  into  the  system.  It  is  inter- 
esting to  note  in  passing  that  in  the  step-by-step  system  the  control 
and  conversation  switching  networks  are  coincident.  In  the  No.  5 
crossbar  system^"  the  same  network  is  used  for  both  control  and  con- 
\ersation  on  call  originations  but  when  so  used  the  functions  are  not 
coincident,  that  is,  the  network  is  used  for  either  control  or  conversa- 
tion. In  other  common  control  systems,  separate  control  networks 
known  as  "register  or  sender  links"  are  employed. 

When  using  relays  to  receive  the  information  pulsed  into  the  office 
l)y  customers  or  operators  a  plurality  of  register  circuits  are  needed. 
The  number  of  the  registers  required  is  determined  by  the  time  required 
to  actuate  the  calling  device  and  for  it  to  pulse  in  the  information.  The 


1000      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

registering  function  has  two  parts,  one  to  detect  or  receive  the  informa- 
tion and  the  second  to  store  it  until  a  sufficient  amount  has  been  re- 
ceived for  processing.  The  processing  function  is  usually  allotted  to 
other  circuits  such  as  the  markers  in  Crossbar  systems. 


SR-D 


CONVERSATION 

SWITCHING 

NETWORK 


CONTROL 

SWITCHING 

NETWORK 


R-M 

R-M 

R-M 

Fig.  8  —  Control  access. 

Since  the  input  of  information  to  a  switching  system  is  usually  limited 
to  two  conductors,  a  serial  form  of  signaling  is  used.  It  would  seem  only 
natural  that  if  a  detector  were  fast  enough  it  could  function  to  receive 
the  serial  information  in  several  simultaneously  active  inputs.  Relays 
are  not  fast  enough  to  do  this,  but  high  speed  time  sharing  electronic 
devices  have  been  designed  to  perform  this  information  gathering  func- 
tion. Since  it  is  a  time  sharing  arrangement  it  is  analogous  to  the  time 
division  switching.  A  time  division  control  access  as  shown  in  Fig.  8  and 
9  requires  memory  to  control  the  time  division  switching  function.  Time 
sharing  when  applied  to  the  gathering  of  information  in  telephone 
switching  systems  has  been  called  "scanning".  The  individual  register 
memories  are  still  in  parallel  form  because  of  the  relatively  long  time 
required  for  sufficient  information  to  be  received  before  processing  may 
start.  Higher  speed  means  for  placing  information  into  switching  sys- 
tems such  as  preset  keysets  is  one  way  of  reducing,  if  not  eliminating, 
this  need  for  parallel  register  storage  in  the  switching  system  prior  to 
processing.  However,  with  this  type  of  device  one  merely  transfers  the 
location  of  the  storage  from  the  central  office  to  the  customer's  telephone 
set.  The  fundamental  limitation  is  the  rate  at  which  a  human  being  is 
able  to  transfer  information  from  his  brain  into  some  physical  repre- 
sentation. 

Lower  cost  memory  is  a  practical  means  for  improving  this  portion 


ELECTRONICS   IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS 


1001 


1 

M 

M 
M 


-^ 


iR-m 


fR-ivn 


1 


Fig.  9  —  Time  division  control   access  with  separate  functional  memory. 

of  the  switching  system.  Many  small  low  cost  relay  registers  have  been 
designed  and  placed  into  service.^"  Electronics,  however,  offers  memory 
at  one  tenth,  or  less,  of  the  cost  per  bit  if  used  in  large  quantities  with 
a  common  memory  access  control.  New  low  cost  bulk  electronic  mem- 
ories are  now  available  to  be  used  in  this  manner.  As  shown  in  Fig.  10 
the  memor^y  for  the  control  of  the  time  division  control  access  network 
and  the  register  memory  may  be  combined  in  the  bulk  memory. 


o- 


\o 

[> — "^ 

BULK 

MEMORY 

. 

t 

Fig.  10  —  Time  division  control  access  with  bulk  memory. 

Memory  appears  in  the  control  portion  of  a  switching  system  in 
many  ways.  Some  are  obvious  and  others  are  more  subtle.  Fig.  11  shows 
a  typical  electromechanical  switching  system,  much  like  No.  5  crossbar 
and  attempts  to  indicate  various  memory  functions.  First  there  is 
active  memory  designated  A  such  as  the  call  information  storage  A2 
whether  in  a  register,  sender  or  marker  during  processing.  There  is 
also  certain  pertinent  call  information  storage  associated  with  trunk 
circuits  such  as  a  "no  charge  class"  on  outgoing  calls  or  the  ringing 
code  used  on  incoming  calls.  Another  type  of  active  memory  Ai  has 
been  mentioned  in  connection  with  switching  networks  to  remember  the 
input-output  associations.  In  most  electromechanical  systems  active 
memory  has  been  emplemented  with  relaj^s  or  switches. 

Another  form  of  memory  is  also  employed  in  all  telephone  switching 
systems  and  much  effort  has  been  devoted  to  devising  improved  means 
for  effecting  this  memory.  This  memory  is  of  the  type  that  is  not 
changed  with  each  call  but  is  of  a  more  permanent  nature.  Examples 
of  this  type  of  memory,  which  may  be  called  passive  memorj^,  designated 
P,  (Fig.  11),  are  the  translations  required  in  common  control  sytems  to 
obtain  certain  flexibility  between  the  assignment  of  lines  to  the  switch- 
ing network  and  their  directory  listing.  These  translations  between 


1002      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

equipment  numbers  (network  location)  and  directory  numbers  are 
required  to  direct  incoming  calls  to  the  proper  terminals  (such  as  the 
number  group  frame  in  No.  5  crossbar,  Fig.  12)  and  to  provide  on 
originating  calls  information  for  charging  purposes  (such  as  the  AMA 
"Dimond"  ring  translator,!^  pig  13)  Each  of  these  translators  for  a 
10,000  line  office  represent  about  10^  bits  of  information.  Another  use 
for  passive  memory  is  to  translate  central  office  codes  into  routing  in- 
formation. In  local  central  offices  this  is  also  done  by  cross-connections 
as  shown  in  Fig.  14. 

Another  form  of  passive  memory  is  the  punched  card  or  tape.  These 
have  been  used  widely  in  telephone  accounting  systems.  A  step  toward 
electronic  memory  is  the  card  translator  which  provides  routing  in- 
formation in  the  crossbar  toll  switching  system^^  (see  Fig.  15).  Here  the 
cards  represent  passive  memory  and  are  selected  and  read  by  a  com- 
bination of  electromechanical  action  and  light  beam  sensing  with 
phototransistor  detectors.  One  such  device  equipped  with  1,000  cards 
represents  the  storage  of  approximately  10^  bits  of  information. 

In  all  of  the  above  types  of  passive  memory  limitations  in  the  speed 
are  involved  in  the  choice  of  devices  used  within  the  memory  or  the 
access  to  it.  This  is  one  of  the  reaons  these  translators  are  subdivided  so 
that  the  various  portions  may  be  used  in  parallel  in  order  to  satisfy  the 
total  information  processing  needs  of  the  office. 

A  discussion  of  passive  memory  would  not  be  complete  without  one 
further  illustration,  Fig.  16.  This  is  a  wiring  side  view  of  a  typical  relay 
circuit  in  the  information  processing  portion  of  a  switching  system.  It 


o- 


EN 


SWITCHING 

NETWORK 

A| 


MARKER 
A2-P1 


DN-^EN 
P2 


REGISTER 


A  =    ACTIVE    MEMORY 
P    =   PASSIVE  MEMORY 


ON 


Fig.  11  —  Memory  in  typical  electromechanical  switching  system. 


ELECTRONICS   IN  TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS 


1003 


Fig.  12  —  No.  5  number  group. 


could  be  any  other  unit,  for  example,  a  trunk  circuit.  The  principal 
point  is  that  each  wire  on  such  a  unit  is  remembering  some  passive 
f|  relationship  between  the  active  portions  of  the  circuit,  such  as  relays. 
This  is  the  memory  of  the  contact  and  coil  interrelationships  as  con- 
ceived by  the  designer  and  based  on  the  requirements  of  what  the  cir- 
cuit is  required  to  accomplish.  It  is  the  program  of  what  the  central 
office  must  do  at  each  step  of  every  type  of  call.  Modern  digital  com- 
puters have  been  built  with  the  ability  to  store  programs  in  bulk 
memories  for  the  solutions  of  the  various  types  of  problems  put  to  them. 
It  is  conceivable  that  the  program  of  a  telephone  contral  office  may  also 
I  >e  stored  in  bulk  memories  to  eliminate  the  need  for  much  of  the  fixed 
wiring  such  as  appears  in  relay  call  processing  circuits. 


1004      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


Fig.  13  —  AMA  translator. 


ELECTRONICS   IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS 


1005 


Fig.  14  —  No.  5  route  relay  frame. 

The  form  of  memory  available  in  electronics  is  considerably  different 
from  that  which  has  been  previously  available.  Electronic  memory  has 
been  characterized  as  "common  medium"  or  "bulk"  memory.  A  single 
device  is  used  capable  of  storing  more  than  a  single  bit  of  information 
which  is  the  limit  of  most  relays  or  other  devices  capable  of  operating  in 
a  bistable  manner.  A  number  of  different  types  of  electronic  bulk 
memories  have  been  devised  for  digital  processing.  They  differ  appre- 


1006      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


Fig.  15  —  No.  4A  card  translator. 


cig.bly  in  physical  form,  each  taking  advantage  of  the  phenomenon  of 
some  different  area  of  the  physical  sciences  —  electrostatic,  electromag- 
netic, optic.  Magnetic  tapes"  and  drums^^  (Fig.  17),  cores^^  (Fig.  18), 
electrostatic  storage  in  tubes^^'  ^"^  (Fig.  19)  and  ferroelectrics^^' 2" 
(Fig.  20)  and  photographic  storage^'  (Fig.  21)  are  available. 

Several  properites  of  these  memory  devices  are  of  interest.  Being 
electronic,  the  speed  with  which  stored  information  may  be  read  is  of 
primary  interest.  This  is  known  as  "access  speed".  Another  property 
of  these  common  medium  memory  systems  or  devices  is  the  ability  to 
change  what  has  been  written.  If  the  changes  can  be  made  rapidly 
enough  they  may  be  used  in  electronic  systems  in  much  the  same  man- 
ner as  relays  are  used  in  electromechanical  systems  to  process  informa- 
tion. If  the  change  must  be  made  relatively  infrequently,  such  as 
changing  photographic  plates,  they  may  be  used  as  substitutes  for  the 
type  of  memory  in  these  systems  which  are  provided  by  cross  connec- 
tions and  wiring.  The  required  fixed  or  semipermanent  electronic  mem- 
ory may  be  characterized  primarily  b}^  a  high  reading  speed,  large 
capacity,  and  the  ability  to  hold  stored  information  even  during  pro- 


ELECTRONICS    IN   TELEPHONE    SAVITCHING   SYSTEMS 


1007 


iiFi<i:mM^^'&'^-'m. 


Fig.  16  —  Wiring  side  of  relay  unit. 

longed  intervals  of  loss  of  power.  The  amount  of  memory  is  measured 
in  terms  of  binary  digits  or  "bits".  The  number  of  bits  equivalent  to 
single  cross  connection  can  be  rather  large.  Therefore,  electronic  mem- 
ory replacing  fixed  memory  such  as  in  the  card  translator  in  modern 
electromechanical  systems  should  be  high  in  bit  capacity,  from  10^  to 
10^  bits  for  10,000  lines. 


Fig.  17  —  Magnetic  drum. 


1008      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


Fig.  18  —  Magnetic  core  array  (Courtesy  of  IBM). 


One  way  in  which  electronic  memory  for  various  system  applications 
may  be  evaluated  is  given  by  the  chart  of  Fig.  22.  This  chart  attempts  to 
show,  for  the  various  forms  of  storage,  the  relation  between  the  ca- 
pacity in  bits  and  cycle  time,  which  includes  access,  reading  and,  if 
necessary,  the  regeneration  time  of  the  stored  information.  For  sake  of 
simplicity,  ferroelectric  and  magnetic  core  memories  have  been  com- 
bined as  coordinate  access  arrays.  Single  bit  electronic  memory  will  be 
described  in  more  detail  later. 


ELECTRONICS    IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING    SYSTEMS 


1009 


In  the  control  portion  of  a  switching  system  it  is  not  only  necessary 
to  gather  and  store  information  but  it  must  be  interpreted  and  appro- 
priate action  taken.  This  function  is  called  "processing".  Processing 
circuits  control  the  information  gathering  and  storage  functions  and 
perform  logical  functions  to  produce  the  necessary  flow  of  information. 
In  the  logic  circuits  of  electronic  systems,  to  keep  pace  with  the  time 
sharing  nature  of  the  information  gathering  function,  the  devices  used 
must  be  several  orders  of  magnitude  faster  than  their  counterparts,  the 
relays,  of  the  electromechanical  system.  The  scanning  and  bulk  memory 


Fig.  19  —  Electrostatic  storage  tube. 


1010      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


Fig.  20  —  Ferroelectric  array. 


access  speeds  must  be  comparable  in  speed  if  they  are  not  to  become  the 
speed  bottleneck.  All  portions  of  the  system  must  be  in  balance  time- 
wise. 

Devices  and  techniques  for  use  in  the  design  of  high  speed  logic  cir- 
cuits are  available. ^^  With  such  devices  information  processing  pre- 
viously carried  out  by  complex  relay  circuitry  may  be  carried  out  in 
microseconds  instead  of  milliseconds.  Devices  such  as  semiconductor 
diodes  and  transistors  seem  to  be  pointing  the  way  to  the  future  in  per- 
forming these  functions.2^  Previously,  hot  cathode  tubes  with  high 
power  consumption  were  needed  to  achieve  the  same  functions  at  simi- 
lar high  speeds  and  for  a  long  time  this  has  been  one  of  the  greatest 
deterrents  to  electronic  switching. 

Semiconductor  diode  gate  circuits  are  now  quite  familiar^*  and  take 


ELECTRONICS   IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS  1011 

the  place  of  the  conventional  make  and  break  contacts  in  the  electro- 
mechanical switching  art  (see  Fig.  23  for  the  "AND"  function). 
Magnetic  core  circuitry  is  also  being  exploited  to  perform  high  speed 
switching  functions-^  (Fig.  24). 

There  are  a  number  of  differences  between  the  circuit  configuration 
used  for  relay  contacts  and  diode  or  magnetic  core  gates  for  switching 
logic.  When  interconnecting  such  gates  to  realize  complex  logic  func- 
tions other  gates  are  required  when  circuit  elements  are  placed  in  series 
or  parallel,  whereas  in  the  wiring  of  relay  contacts  in  series  or  in  parallel 
no  additional  circuit  elements  are  required  (Fig.  25).  Pulse  signals 
passing  through  diode  gate  circuits  are  usually  attenuated  since  the 
electronic  device  is  not  a  perfect  switcher  (infinite  impedance  open  cir- 
cuit to  zero  impedance  closed  circuit).  Some  minute  currents  flow 
when  open  and  some  resistance  is  encountered  when  closed.  Therefore, 
some  amplification  is  needed  at  various  places  in  logic  circuits  and  this 
can  be  provided  by  transistor  amplifiers.  The  use  of  transistors  as  the 
gating  element  eliminates  this  shortcoming  by  providing  amplification 
in  each  gate  (see  Fig.  24).  Transistors  have  also  been  successfully  used 
in  a  new  form  of  logic  to  provide  relay  contact  like  logic  thus  eliminating 
the  need  for  gate  elements  to  represent  the  series  of  paralleling  func- 
tions^^  (see  Fig.  26). 

The  processing  of  information  usually  requires  a  sequence  of  logic 
actions.  To  provide  such  sequences,  momentary  elements  similar  to 
locking  relays  but  with  microsecond  action  times  are  required.  When 
this  condition  obtains  a  bistable  or  "flip-flop"  circuit  using  transistors 
may  be  emplo3^ed.  Several  forms  of  transistor  circuits  have  been  de- 
vised using  either  the  Eccles-Jordan  principle,^^  negative  resistance 
properties,'^  such  as  achieved  with  a  gas  tube,  or  a  regenerative  ap- 
proach.2^  Some  suggestions  have  been  made  on  the  use  of  semiconductor 
diodes  in  special  energy  storing  circuits  to  amplify  pulses  instead  of  the 
more  conventional  transistor  amplifiers.^" 


CYLINDRICAL 
LENS 

^  EMULSION 

TUBE   "^    COLLECTOR 


CATHODE  RAY _„,.  „^^ ^         f" 


SLIT 


.^OUTPUT 
VOLTAGE 


--  1  ■) 

CATHODE      pHOTOMULTIPLIER 
FIELD  LENS  TUBE 


ROTATING   PLATE 
FLYING  SPOT  SCANNING  A  ROTATING   DISC 

Fig.  21  —  Photographic  storage  (from  Proc.  I.R.E.,  Oct.  1953). 


1012      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 
EQUIPMENT   CONCEPTS 

111  what  has  been  said,  consideration  was  given  only  to  the  concepts 
and  circuitry  of  electronic  telephone  switching  systems,  but  the  things 
which  the  manufacturer  and  user  come  in  contact  with  are  the  physical 
or  equipment  realizations  of  these  concepts.  One  thing  that  is  outstand- 
ing about  the  physical  aspects  of  an  electronic  system  is  the  large  num- 
ber of  small  components  which  are  required.  Fortunately,  most  of  these 
components  such  as  resistors,  diodes,  transistors,  condensers,  etc.,  are 
all  of  the  same  physical  or  similar  mechanical  design.  From  the  manu- 
facturer's point  of  view  the  problem  then  is  to  find  the  most  economical 
way  in  which  these  many  devices  may  be  manufactured,  assembled  and 
tested,  because  of  the  large  numbers  required  in  a  system.  The  basic 
solution  appears  to  be:  automatic  production.  This  has  led  to  the  con- 
cept of  small  packages  of  components.  These  packages  are  the  building 
blocks  of  a  system  and  contain  basic  circuits  which  may  be  used  repeti- 
tively. The  trend  in  making  such  packages  appears  to  be  the  use  of 
printed  wiring  with  automatic  means  of  placing  the  components  on  the 
printed  wiring  boards. ^^ 

Despite  the  fact  that  there  are  large  numbers  of  these  small  com- 


10' 
10^ 

lO' 

m 

V     10' 

h- 

< 

°-  3 

<     10 
o 

lO' 
10 


PHOTOGRAPHIC  STORE 
1 


ELECTRO- 
STATIC 
-   TUBE 
STORE 


10' 


IR 


1  COORDINATE 

ACCESS 

ARRAY 


MAGNETIC 
DRUM 


MAGNETIC 
/  TAPE 


/    SINGLE    BIT 
/        MEMORY 


J (_L 


_L 


I  10  10'         lO'         10*        10*         10* 

CYCLE     TIME -MICROSECONDS 


10' 


10'         10' 


Fig.  22  —  Memory  system  capabilities. 


ELECTRONICS   IN   TELEPHONE   SWITCHING   SYSTEMS 


1013 


ponents  required  in  electronic  telephone  switching  they  are  small  and 
when  eciuipment  using  a  multiplicity  of  printed  wiring  boards  is  assem- 
bled it  takes  on  the  aspect  of  a  three-dimensional  arrangement  of 
components,  with  components  mounted  in  depth  as  well  as  on  the  sur- 
face. This  is  in  contrast  to  electromechanical  systems  where  all  com- 
ponents are  generally  mounted  on  a  vertical  surface.  By  using  only  one 
or  two  common  control  circuits  of  a  given  type  (due  to  high  speed)  and 


r^ 


4 


A' 
B- 


■♦C 


WITH     RELAYS 


AB=C 
FUNCTION    AND  SYMBOL 


A 


_n_ 


B N * 


-TL 


TRANSMISSION    TYPE 
DIODE    GATE 


DC    COUPLED 
DIODE    GATE 


Fig.  23  —  The  "And"  function. 


_rL 


-TL 


_n_ 


MAGNETIC    CORE 
"AND"    GATE 


DC    COUPLED 
TRANSISTOR   "AND"  GATE 


Fig.  24  —  Other  "And"  circuits. 


1014      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

(•omnioii  medium  bulk  memory,  fewer  system  elements  are  required 
which  ill  the  overall  result  in  material  space  saving. 

Another  phase  of  the  equipment  aspects  of  electronic  switching  is  that 
the  devices  reciuire  closer  environmental  control.  Air  conditioning 
appears  necessary  in  early  systems  because  of  temperature  limitations 
and  other  characteristics  of  some  of  the  devices  presently  available. 
Also,  vacuum  tubes  and  other  high  power  devices  may  develop  objec- 
tionable hot  spots  in  the  equipment  which  make  it  advisable  to  exhaust 
hot  air. 

MAINTENANCE    CONCEPTS 

There  is  insufficient  experience  at  this  time  to  say  what  the  main- 
tenance problems  of  electronic  telephone  systems  will  be.  Much  has 
been  written  about  the  problems  encountered  in  maintaining  electronic 


A- 
B- 


AB+CD=E 
A    LOGIC    FUNCTION 


f^T 


WITH    RELAYS 


Fig.  25  —  A  logic  function  with  relays. 


ELECTRONICS    IX    TELEPHONE    SWITCHING    SYSTEMS 


lOlo 


computers;  however,  in  designing  a  telephone  system  an  entirely  dif- 
ferent philosophy  must  be  pursued  since  it  should  not  be  necessary  to 
have  engineering  caliber  maintenance  forces.  At  no  time  should  the 
system  be  incapable  of  accepting  and  completing  calls.  This  does  not 
mean  that  portions  of  the  system  may  not  be  worked  on  for  routine  or 
trouble  maintenance. 

A  promising  approach  appears  to  be  the  use  of  marginal  condition 
routine  tests  for  detecting  in  advance  components  which  are  about  to 
fail.^^  Automatic  trouble  locating  arrangements  may  be  devised  for 
giving  information  as  to  the  specific  location  of  a  package  in  trouble 
when  it  occurs.^^  This  automatic  trouble  locator  combined  with  the 
equipment  concept  of  plug-in  units  means  that  service  may  be  main- 
tained without  long  interruptions.  By  designing  devices  which  are 
reliable,  employing  them  in  a  manner  to  give  maximum  service  life  and 


A 

a) — 

^ 

\^^ 

\       ,^-'' 

r- 

B^ 

"" 

D 

< 

1^     J 

> 

J 

+ 
> 

A    -         ,-, 

n            1- 

< 

> 

•> 

J 

> 

> 

-> 

1 

1* 

D  — 

-^ J 

-H J 

i — i 

WITH    DIODES 


WITH    TRANSISTORS 


Fig.  26  —  A  logic  function  with  diodes  or  transistors. 


1016      THE    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195G 

by  judiciously  introducing  redundancy  into  the  equipment,  the  chance 
of  simultaneous  failures  of  any  two  identical  parts  should  be  extremely 
improbable.^-  With  automatic  trouble  locating,  the  maintenance  forces 
will  not  be  reciuired  to  have  a  thorough  understanding  of  the  device 
characteristics  and  the  circuitry  used.  Centralized  repair  of  defective 
units  as  in  modern  telephone  transmission  systems^^  and  perhaps  even 
expendability  of  defective  units  are  a  distinct  possibility. 

As  a  result  of  some  of  these  maintenance  considerations  it  is  quite 
likely  that  equipment  in  the  future,  besides  being  smaller  and  more  com- 
pact, will  appear  more  generally  in  enclosed  low  cabinets  rather  than 
exposed  frames.  The  administrative  control  may  be  from  consoles 
rather  than  vertical  panels.  More  attention  will  be  paid  to  appearance. 
The  appurtenances,  such  as  ladders  required  for  high  frames  in  electro- 
mechanical systems,  may  be  eliminated. 

Another  change  in  concept  which  may  come  with  electronics  in  tele- 
phone switching  is  the  form  of  the  power  supply.  Present  day  telephone 
systems  use  a  centralized  single  voltage  dc  distribution  system  with 
reserve  battery.  The  wide  variety  of  devices  and  associated  voltages, 
and  the  need  for  close  regulation  in  some  portions  of  electronic  systems 
make  a  reliable  ac  distribution  system  with  individual  power  rectifiers  at 
the  point  of  use  appear  quite  attractive.  To  insure  reliability  of  service 
the  ac  distribution  must  be  continuous  and  not  dependent  directly  upon 
the  commercial  sources. 

There  is  no  question  that  reliability  is  imperati\'e  if  electronic  switch- 
ing systems  are  to  survive  among  electromechanical  systems  which 
have  achieved  a  high  degree  of  reliability  over  a  long  period  of  years. 
The  device  reliability  of  the  first  electronic  system  may  not  be  com- 
parable since  some  of  the  components  of  the  electronic  switching  sys- 
tems will  not  in  their  initial  applications  be  as  reliable  as  the  least  reli- 
able component  in  our  present  day  systems.  Reliability  will  be  earned 
and  this  will  probably  require  considerable  effort.  Even  if  initially  some 
devices  employed  in  electronic  systems  do  not  measure  up  to  the  present 
high  standard  which  has  been  set,  continuity  of  high  (luality  service  is 
a  must.  It  is,  therefore,  necessary  to  design  a  system  which  will  mask 
the  shortcomings  of  any  individual  electronic  component. ^^  As  their 
reliability  is  proven  an  optimum  balance  will  be  sought  between  system 
redundancy  and  component  quality.  Telephone  engineers  familiar  only 
with  the  high  degree  of  reliability  of  present  day  apparatus  will  have  to 
accommodate  themselves  to  the  characteristics  of  new  electronic  de- 
vices. 


ELECTRONICS    IN   TELEPHENE    SWITCHING    SYSTEMS  1017 


REFERENCES 

1.  J.  R.  Eckert,  A.  Survey  of  Digital  Computer  Memory  Systems,  I.R.E.  Pro- 

ceedings, 41,  pp.  1393-1406,  Oct.,  1953. 

2.  T.  H.  Flowers,  Electronic  Telephone  Exchanges,  Proceedings  I.E.E.,  99,  Part 

I,  pp.  181-201, 1952. 

3.  U.  S.  Patent  2,387,018. 

4.  U.  S.  Patent  2,490,833. 

5.  U.  S.  Patent  2,408,462. 

6.  U.  S.  Patent  2,379,221. 

7.  W.  A.  Depp,  M.  A.  Townsend,  Cold  Cathode  Tubes  for  Audio  Frequency 

Signaling,  B.S.T.J.,  32,  pp.  1371-1391,  Nov.,  1953. 

8.  Tone  Ringer  May  Replace  Telephone  Bell,  Bell  Laboratories  Record,  pp. 

116-117,  March,  1956. 

9.  W.  R.  Bennett,  Time  Division  Multiplex  Systems.  B. S.T.J. ,  20,  p.  199,  1941. 

10.  F.  A.  Korn,  J.  G.  Ferguson,  No.  5  Crossbar  Dial  Telephone  Switching  System, 

Elec.  Eng.,  69,  pp.  679-684,  Aug.,  1950. 

11.  J.  W.  Dehn,  R.  E.  Hersev,  Recent  New  Features  of  the  No.  5  Crossbar  Switch- 

ing System,  A.I.E.E.  Paper  No.  55-580. 

12.  T.  L.  Dimond,  No.  5  Crossbar  AMA  Translator,  Bell  Laboratories  Record, 

p.  62,  Feb.,  1951. 

13.  L.  N.  Hampton,  J.  B.  Newsom,  The  Card  Translator  for  Nationwide  Dialing, 

B.S.T.J.,  32,  pp.  1037-1098,  Sept.,  1953. 

14.  Review  of  Input  and  Output  Equipment  LTsed  in  Computing  Systems.  A.LE.E. 

Special  Publication  S53. 

15.  Cohen,  A.  A.,  Magnetic  Drum  for  Digital  Information  Processing  Systems, 

Mathematical  Aids  to  Computation.  4,  pp.  31-39,  Jan.,  1950. 

16.  M.  E.  Hines,  M.  Chruney,  J.  A.  McCarthy,  Digital  Memory  in  Barrier  Grid 

Storage  Tubes,  B.S.T.J.,  43,  p.  1241,  Nov.,  1955. 

17.  M.  Knoll,  B.  Kazan,  Storage  Tubes  and  Their  Basic  Principles,  John  Wilev  & 

Sons,  1952. 
IS.  M.  K.  Haj-nes,  Multidimensional  Magnetic  Memory  Selection  System.  Trans- 
actions of  the  I.R.E. ,  Professional  Group  on  Electronic  Computers,  pp. 
25-29,  Dec,  1952. 

19.  D.  A.  Buck,  Ferroelectrics  for  Digital  Information  Storage  and  Switching, 

Report  R212,  M.I.T.  Digital  Computer  Laboratories,  June,  1952. 

20.  J.  R.  Anderson,  Ferroelectric  Materials  as  Storage  Elements  for  Digital  Com- 

puters and  Switching  Svstems,  Communications  and  Electronics,  pp.  395- 
401,  Jan.,  1953. 

21.  G.  W.  King,  G.  W.  Bi-own,  L.  N.  Ridenour,  Photographic  Techniques  for  In- 

formation Storage,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  1421-1428,  Oct.,  1953. 

22.  Staff  of  Harvard  Computation  Laboratorj-,  Synthesis  of  Electronic  Computing 

and  Control  Circuits,  Vol.  37  of  Annals  of  Harvard  Computation  Labora- 
tory, 1951. 

23.  B.  J.  Yokelson,  W.  Ulrich,  Engineering  ^Multistage  Diode  Logic  Circuits, 

Communications  and  Electronics ,  pp.  466-474,  Sept.,  1955. 

24.  M.  Karnaugh,  Pulse  Switching  Circuits  Using  Magnetic  Cores,  Proc.  I.R.E., 

43,  pp.  576-584,  May,  1955. 

25.  R.  H.  Beter,  W.  E.  Bradley,  R.  B.  Brown,  M.  Rubinoff,  Surface  Barrier  Tran- 

sistor Switching  Circuits,  I.R.E.  Convention  Record,  Part  4,  pp.  139-145, 
1955. 

26.  R.  L.  Trent,  Two  Transistor  Binary  Counter,  Electronics,  25,  pp.  100-101, 

July,  1952. 

27.  A.  E.  Anderson,  Transistors  in  Switching  Circuits,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  pp.  1541- 

1558,  Nov.,  1952. 

28.  J.  H.  Felker,  Regenerative  Amplifier  for  Digital  Computer  Applications,  Proc. 

I.R.E.,  40,  pp.  1584-1956,  Nov.,  1592. 

29.  J.  H.  Felker,  Typical  Block  Diagrams  for  a  Transistor  Digital  Computer, 

Communications  and  Electronics,  pp.  175-182,  July,  1952. 


1018      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMEER    1956 

30.  Promising  Electronic  Components  —  Diode  Amplifiers,  Radio  Electronics 

p.  45,  Nov.,  1954.  ' 

31.  A.  A.  Lawson,  Mass  Production  of  Electronic  Subassemblies,  Electrical  Manu-     i 

facturing,  54,  p.  134,  Oct.,  1954.  j 

32.  C.  J.  Crevelens,  Increasing  Reliability  by  the  Use  of  Redundant  Circuits 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  pp.  509-515,  April,  1956. 

33.  A.  L.  Bonner,  Servicing  Center  for  Short-Haul  Carrier  System,  Communica- 

tions and  Electronics,  pp.  388-396,  Sept.,  1954. 
^■^^  ^\^}",--  I^aggett,  E.  S.  Rich,  Diagnostic  Programs  and  Marginal  Checking  in 

Whirlwind  I  Computer,  I.R.E.  Convention  Record,  Part  7,  pp.  48-54    1953 
35.  MAID  Service  for  Computer  Circuits,  Automatic  Control,  p.  23,  Aug    1955 


% 


Combined  Measurements  of  Field  Effect, 

Surface  Photo-Voltage  and 

Photoconductivity 

By  W.  H.  BRATTAIN  and  C.  G.  B.  GARRETT 

(Manuscript  received  May  10,  1956) 

Combined  measurements  have  been  made  of  surface  recombination  veloc- 
ity, surface  photo-voltage,  and  the  modulation  of  surface  conductance  and 
surface  recombination  velocity  by  an  external  field,  on  etched  germanium 
surfaces.  Two  samples,  cut  from  an  n-type  and  a  p-type  crystal  of  known 
body  properties,  were  used,  the  samples  being  exposed  to  the  Brattain- 
Bardeen  cycle  of  gaseous  ambients.  The  results  are  interpreted  in  terms  of 
the  properties  of  the  surface  space-charge  region  and  of  the  fast  surface 
states.  It  is  found  that  the  surface  barrier  height,  measured  with  respect  to 
the  Fermi  level,  varies  from  —0.13  to  -\-0.13  volts,  and  that  the  surface 
recombination  velocity  varies  over  about  a  factor  of  ten  in  this  range.  From 
the  measurements,  values  are  found  for  the  dependence  of  charge  trapped 
in  fast  surface  states  on  barrier  height  and  on  the  steady-state  carrier  con- 
centration within  the  semiconductor. 

I.    INTRODUCTION 

This  and  the  succeeding  paper  are  concerned  with  studies  of  the 
properties  of  fast  surface  states  on  etched  germanium  surfaces.  The  ex- 
periments involve  simultaneous  measurement  of  a  number  of  different 
physical  surface  properties.  The  theory,  which  will  be  presented  in  the 
second  paper,  interprets  the  results  in  terms  of  a  distribution  of  fast 
surface  states  in  the  energy  gap.  The  distribution  function,  and  the 
cross-sections  for  transitions  from  the  states  into  the  conduction  and 
valence  bands,  may  then  be  deduced  from  the  experimental  results. 

Early  experiments^  on  contact  potential  of  germanium,  and  on  the 
change  of  contact  potential  with  light,  indicated  that  there  are  two 
kinds  of  surface  charge  associated  with  a  germanium  surface,  over  and 
above  the  holes  and  electrons  that  are  distributed  through  the  surface 
space-charge  region.  One  kind  of  surface  charge,  usually  called  "charge 

1019 


1020      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

in  fast  traps"  can  follow  a  change  in  the  space-charge  region  very  fast 
in  comparison  with  the  light-chopping  time  used  in  that  work  (Koo 
sec);  the  other  kind,  imagined  to  be  more  closely  connected  with  ad- 
sorbed chemical  material,  can  only  change  rather  slowly.  In  a  previous 
paper  by  the  authors  it  was  pointed  out  that  the  Brattain-Bardeen 
experiments,  taken  by  themselves,  do  not  furnish  unambiguous  infor- 
mation concerning  the  distribution  of  these  "fast"  traps,  but  that  such 
information  might  be  obtained  by  performing,  simultaneously,  other 
measurements  on  the  germanium  surface.  More  recently  Brown  and 
Montgomery^'  ^  have  provided  a  valuable  tool  in  their  studies  of  large- 
signal  field  effect;  they  point  out  that  if,  under  given  chemical  conditions, 
it  is  possible  to  apply  a  field,  normal  to  the  surface,  large  enough  to 
force  the  surface  potential  to  the  minimum  in  surface  conductivity; 
then  it  becomes  possible  to  determine  the  initial  surface  potential  ab- 
solutely (provided  certain  considerations  as  to  the  mobility  of  the 
carriers  near  the  surface  are  valid). 

This  paper  concerns  studies  of  a  number  of  physical  properties  that 
depend  on  the  distribution  and  other  characteristics  of  the  surface 
traps  or  "fast"  states.  Measurements  are  reported  of  (i)  the  change 
of  conductivity  of  a  sample  with  field;  (ii)  the  photoconductivity; 
(iii)  the  change  of  photoconductivity  with  field;  (iv)  the  filament  life- 
time; and  (v)  the  surface  photo-voltage.  Measurements  were  made  in  a 
series  of  gaseous  ambients,  first  described  by  Brattain  and  Bardeen. 
Evidence  is  presented  to  the  effect  that  the  variation  in  gas  ambient 
changes  only  the  "slow"  states,  leaving  the  distribution  and  other 
properties  of  the  traps  substantially  unaffected.  From  measurements 
(i)  to  (iii)  it  is  possible  to  construct  the  whole  field-effect  curve  (con- 
ductance versus  surface  charge),  even  though  the  fields  used  were  in 
general  not  large  enough  to  reach  the  minimum  in  conductance. 

Using  the  field  effect  data,  values  for  the  surface  potential  Y  in  units 
of  kT/e  could  be  obtained  at  each  point,  and  also  of  the  quantity 
(d'Ls/dY)s=o  ,  where  2s  is  the  charge  in  surface  traps,  and  the  suffix  5  =  0 
implies  zero  illumination.  From  measurements  (ii)  and  (iv),  the  sin'face 
recoml)ination  velocity  s  could  be  deduced.  (A  more  detailed  study  of 
photoconductivity  in  relation  to  surface  recombination  \'elocity  will 
be  reported  at  a  later  date.)  Combined  with  the  field  effect  data,  this 
enables  one  to  deduce  the  relation  between  s  and  Y. 

Measurements  of  the  surface  photo-voltage  may  be  presented  in  terms 
of  the  quantity  dY/d8,  where  5  is  ec|ual  to  Ap/ui ,  Ap  being  the  density 
of  added  carrier-pairs  in  the  body  of  the  material,  and  Ui  the  intrinsic 
carrier  density.  The  quantity  dY/d8  is  closely  related  to  the  ratio  of  the 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES    1021 

change  in  surface  potential  produced  by  illumination  of  the  surface  to 
the  change  in  the  quasi-Fermi  level  for  minority  carriers.  By  measuring 
dY/db  rather  than  dY/dL,  discussed  in  Reference  2,  the  surface  re- 
combination velocity  is  eliminated  from  the  surface  photo-voltage  data: 
the  limiting  values  of  dY/dd,  after  correction  for  the  Dember  effect, 
ought  to  be  (po/ni)  and  —  (ni/po) ,  no  matter  what  the  surface  recombina- 
tion velocity  may  be. 

By  combining  this  information  with  the  field-effect  data,  one  can  de- 
duce the  quantity  (5Ss/55)r  •  This  and  the  previous  differential,  deduced 
directly  from  the  field-effect  data,  completely  define  the  dependence  of 
charge  in  surface  traps  on  the  two  independent  parameters  Y  and 
8  —  that  is,  the  dependence  on  chemical  environment  and  on  the  bulk 
non-equilibrium  carrier  level. 

The  further  interpretation  of  the  cjuantities  (dI,s/dY)s=o ,  (52s/55)r 
and  s  in  terms  of  the  distribution  of  surface  traps  is  postponed  to  the 
succeeding  paper.  Here  it  is  sufficient  to  say  that  the  results  are  con- 
sistent with  the  assumption  that  the  traps  responsible  for  surface  re- 
combination are  also  those  pertinent  to  the  field  effect  and  surface 
photovoltage  experiments.  Then  the  ciuantity  (d2s/^F)a=o  depends  only 
on  an  integral  over  the  distribution  in  energy  of  traps;  (31,^/88)  y  depends 
also  on  the  ratios  of  cross-sections  for  transitions  to  the  valence  and 
conduction  bands;  and  s  depends  in  addition  on  the  geometric  mean 
cross-sections. 

II.    OUTLINE    OF   THE   EXPERIMENT 

The  experiment  is  carried  out  with  a  slice  of  germanium,  0.025  cm 
thick,  which  is  supported  in  such  a  way  that  there  is  a  gap  0.025  cm  wide 
between  the  slice  and  a  metal  plate.  Substantially  ohmic  contacts  are 
attached  to  the  ends  of  the  slice.  Three  kinds  of  experiment  are  now 
carried  out: 

(i)  The  conductance  of  the  slice  is  modulated  by  illuminating  it 
with  a  short  flash  of  light;  the  subsequent  decaj^  of  photoconductivity 
with  time  is  studied,  and  the  time-constant  of  the  exponential  tail 
measured. 

(ii)  A  sinusoidally  varying  potential  difference  of  about  500  volts 
peak-to-peak  is  applied  between  the  metal  plate  and  the  germanium. 
Facilities  are  available  for  measuring  the  changes  in  conductance  pro- 
duced by  the  field.  The  sample  is  also  illuminated  with  light  chopped 
at  a  frequency  different  from  that  of  the  applied  field.  One  measures: 

(a)  the  magnitude  of  the  peak-to-peak  conductance  change  in  the  dark; 

(b)  the  same  in  the  presence  of  the  light;  and  (c)  the  change  in  con- 


1022      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

ductance,  at  zero  field,  produced  by  the  light.  The  applied  field  is  suffi- 
ciently small  for  the  dark  field  effect  and  the  apparent  field  effect  in  the 
presence  of  light  to  be  substantially  linear. 

(iii)  The  metal  plate,  disconnected  from  the  high  voltage  supply,  is 
connected  to  a  high-impedance  detector;  chopped  light  is  shone  on  the 
germanium,  and  the  change  in  contact  potential  produced  at  the  sur- 
face opposite  the  metal  plate  by  illumination  of  the  sample  measured, 
and  compared  with  the  photoconductivity. 

The  interpretation  of  the  field  effect  data  has  been  given  by  Brown 
and  Montgomery^'  ^  and  by  the  authors."  The  surface  conductance  AG 
is  equal  to  enp{Tp  +  6r„),2  where  Tp  and  r„  are  surface  excesses  of  holes 
and  electrons,  and  are,  in  equilibrium  (i.e.,  in  the  absence  of  light) 
functions  of  the  surface  potential  Y  and  of  the  body  type  and  resistivity. 
The  minimum  in  the  surface  conductance  curve  occurs  at  a  particular 
value  of  Y,  so  that,  if  a  field  effect  experiment  allows  passage  through 
this  minimum,  values  of  Y  may  be  obtained.* 

In  our  experiments,  measurements  were  made  in  a  series  of  different 
chemical  environments,  and  the  minimum  in  surface  conductance  did 
not,  in  general,  occur  within  the  range  of  field  employed.  However,  it 
was  found  to  be  possible  to  piece  together  the  complete  surface  con- 
ductance curve  (AG  versus  surface  charge)  by  making  use  of  simulta- 
neous measurements  of  the  photoconductance  and  the  change  in  photo- 
conductance  with  field.  (See  Section  VI.)  From  the  surface  conductance 
curve,  one  may  deduce  the  fraction  of  the  surface  charge  (whether  in- 
duced electrically,  by  application  of  a  field,  or  chemically,  by  changing 
the  environment)  which  goes  into  the  fast  surface  states  or  traps. ^'  ^ 
There  is,  indeed,  an  assumption  here,  to  the  effect  that  the  distribution 
of  traps  is  unaffected  by  a  change  in  the  chemical  environment.  The 
justification  for  this  is  the  observation  of  Brown  and  Montgomery* 
that  it  was  possible  to  superpose  overlapping  large  signal  field  effect 
curves  obtained  in  different  environments.  There  is  also  evidence  for 
the  validity  of  this  assumption  from  the  self-consistency  of  the  procedure 
used  (see  Section  V  and  Fig.  4). 

The  photoconductivity  measurements  have  been  interpreted  on  the 
following  basis.  Illumination  of  the  sample  will  do  two  things:  it  will 
change  the  surface  excesses  Tp  and  r„  ,^  and  it  \\ill  also  change  the 

*  The  question  of  the  mobility  of  carriers  near  the  surface  should  be  mentioned 
liere.  For  extreme  values  of  Y,  the  mobility  of  the  carriers  tliat  are  constrained  to 
move  in  the  narrow  surface  well  is  reduced.  Values  for  this  reduction  in  mobility 
have  been  calculated  by  Schrieffer.^  However,  for  values  of  }'  near  zero  the  Schrief- 
fer  correction  is  small,  and  at  somewhat  larger  (positive  or  negative)  values  AG 
is  increasing  so  fast  that  the  error  in  Y  introduced  by  ignoring  the  Schrieffer  cor- 
rection is  small. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES    1023 

steady-state  carrier  density  deep  inside  the  sample.  If  the  sample  is 

thin  in  comparison  with  the  body  diffusion  length  and  with  (D/s),  as 

was  the  case  in  our  experiments,  the  added  carrier  density  Ap  will  be. 

almost  uniform  throughout  the  thickness  t  of  the  sample,  and  one  can 

easily  convince  oneself  that  the  photoconductance  arising  from  this 

cause  is  of  the  order  of  it/£)  times  larger  than  that  arising  from  the 

changes  in  the  surface  excesses,  where  £  is  a  Debye  length  for  the 

I  material.  This  being  the  case,  the  photoconductivity  may  be  considered 

I  to  be  a  bulk  rather  than  a  surface  effect,  the  surface  entering  only 

i  through  the  surface  recombination  velocity  s.  Under  the  conditions  of 

the  present  work  the  magnitude  of  the  photoconductivity  w^as  in  fact 

inversely  proportional  to  s,  as  was  verified  in  a  separate  set  of  experi- 

I  ments.  Surface  recombination  is  of  interest  in  that  this  also  calls  for 

I  "fast"  trapping  centers  on  the  surface;  in  fact  any  trap  contributing 

\  to  the  field  effect  experiment  may  be  a  recombination  centre,  if  the 

i  cross-sections  are  right.  The  questions  as  to  whether  the  recombination 

I  centres  and  the  "fast  states"  affecting  the  field  effect  are  the  same,  or 

I  not,  is  taken  up  in  the  succeeding  paper. 

I      The  surface  photo-voltage,  like  the  field  effect,  is  affected  both  by 

I  changes  in  the  surface  excesses  and  by  changes  in  Ss ,  the  charge  in  sur- 

I  face  traps.  In  the  experiments,  the  change  in  contact  potential  in  a  cer- 

I  tain  light  (usually  chosen  so  that  the  change  i  s  small  in  comparison 

[  with  kT/e)  is  compared  with  the  change  in  conductance  produced  by  the 

same  light.  From  the  latter  one  may  calculate  8  (defined  as  Ap/ui) 

directly.  The  change  in  contact  potential,  measured  in  units  of  kT/e,  is 

I  taken  to  be  equal  to  AY.  Thus  the  surface  photo-voltage  experiment 

I  measures  the  quantity  (dY/d8),  the  differential  being  taken  at  constant 

surface  charge.  By  a  slight  generalization  of  the  argument  previously 

given  by  the  authors,"  one  can  show  that: 

dy  ^  _   (d/d8)Y{Tp  -  rj  +  id2jd8)Y  (.. 

(18  (d/dVUTp  -  r„)  +  (dXs/dVh  ^  ^ 

Now  the  first  terms  in  the  numerator  and  denominator  on  the  right- 
I  hand  side  are  determinate  functions  of  Y,  and  so  are  known ;  the  quantity 
I  {d'2s/dY)B  may  be  deduced  from  the  field-effect  measurements,  so  that 
I  the  only  remaining  ciuantity,  (53,, /(95)  r  ,  niay  be  deduced  from  the 
I  measurements  of  surface  photo-voltage. 

In  concluding  this  section,  a  word  as  to  the  meaning  to  be  attached  to 
(dT^s/dS)  Y  is  in  order.  The  sign  of  this  quantity  depends,  roughly  speak- 
ing, on  whether  the  traps  in  question  (i.e.,  those  near  the  Fermi  level 
under  the  conditions  of  the  experiment)  are  in  better  contact  with  the 


1024      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

conduction  or  the  valence  band.  This  in  turn  depends  both  on  the  surface 
potential  and  on  the  ratio  of  cross-sections  for  transitions  to  the  two 
.bands.  For  F  «  —  1,  one  expects  (52^/(95)  y/(62s/ay)5  to  have  the  value 
—  X~';  for  F  »  +1,  the  vakie  +X.  These  limiting  values  may  be  deduced 
by  a  somewhat  general  argument. 

At  some  intermediate  value  of  surface  potential,  the  above  ratio 
must  change  sign.  If  the  distribution  of  surface  states  in  energy  is  known 
from  the  field  effect  measurements,  then  the  value  of  F  at  which  the 
above  ratio  changes  sign  determines  the  ratio  of  cross-sections  for  those 
traps  which  are  close  to  the  Fermi  level  for  that  value  of  F.  By  repeating 
the  experiment  for  samples  of  differing  bulk  resistivity,  it  is  then  possible 
to  determine  whether  the  same  ratio  holds  for  the  states  at  some  dif- 
ferent position  in  the  energy  gap. 

III.    EXPERIMENTAL    DETAILS 

Fig.  1  shows  the  experimental  arrangements.  The  sample  of  ger- 
manium, of  dimensions  shown,  was  prepared  by  cutting,  sandblasting, 
etching  in  CP4  and  washing  in  distilled  water.  The  exposed  faces  were 
approximately  (100).  The  end  contacts  were  made  by  sandblasting  and 
soldering.  The  slots  A,  A'  in  the  ceramic  were  incorporated  in  order  to 


GERMANIUM 


GOLD 


GOLD 


--GERMANIUM 


BINDING   POSTS- 


Fig.  1  —  Experimental  arrangement. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES 


1025 


reduce  the  high  field  that  would  otherwise  be  present  near  the  edges  of 
the  ceramic.  The  gold  electrode  was  deposited  by  evaporation  through 
a  mask.  Connections  from  the  gold  and  from  the  ends  of  the  sample  were 
made  to  binding  posts  passing  through  the  ceramic  block. 

The  ceramic  block  was  set  into  a  metal  box,  divided  into  two  com- 
partments. In  the  upper  compartment,  which  contained  the  sample, 
there  were  inlet  and  outlet  tu}:)es,  to  allow  the  gas  to  be  changed.  The 
lower  compartment  contained  electrical  components,  which  were 
thereby  protected  to  a  large  extent  from  the  changes  in  gas  in  the  upper 
compartment.  Facilities  were  available  for  the  type  of  cycle  of  gas  en- 
vironment described  by  Brattain  and  Bardeen,^  which  cycle  was  found 
by  them  to  produce  reversible  cyclic  changes  in  surface  potential.  In 
the  top  of  the  box  was  a  window,  through  which  light  could  be  shone 
onto  the  germanium  either  from  a  chopped  or  a  flash  source. 

The  electrical  circuit  is  shown  in  Fig.  2.  The  condenser  Ci  is  that 
formed  between  the  germanium  and  the  gold,  and  has  a  capacity  of 
about  2  ijlijlF.  Impedances  Zi  and  Zo  form  a  Wagner  ground,  which  has 
to  be  balanced  first.  Then,  by  adjusting  resistance  Ri  and  condenser 
C2 ,  one  may  obtain  a  balance  in  the  case  that  there  is  no  dc  flowing 
through  the  sample.  A  current  (determined  by  the  battery  B  and  the 


HORIZONTAL 


VERTICAL 


ELECTROMETER - 

TUBE 
PRE-AMPLIFIER 


:!^  B 


Fig.  2  —  Electrical  circuit. 


1026      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

resistance  Rz)is  now  switched  in,  and  the  resulting  off-balance  (repre- 
senting the  field  modulation  of  conductivity)  presented  on  the  vertical 
plates  of  an  oscilloscope.  The  supply  voltage  is  connected,  via  the  high.j 
bleeder  resistance  Ri ,  to  the  horizontal  plates.  The  frequency  of  the 
oscillator  was  chosen  to  be  25  cyc/sec,  a  value  sufficiently  low  to  obviate 
lifetime  difficulties;  the  peak-to-peak  swing  was  generally  500  volts. 

During  a  field-effect  measurement,  the  sample  was  also  illuminated 
with  light  chopped  at  90  cyc/sec.  This  had  the  result  of  causing  to  be 
presented  on  the  oscilloscope  screen  a  pattern  such  as  that  shown  in 
Fig.  3.  The  lower  tilted  line  represents  the  (dark)  field  effect  curve;  the 
vertical  separation  represents  the  photoconductivity,  as  modified  by  the 
applied  field.  Measurements  were  made  of  the  mean  vertical  separation, 
and  of  the  slopes  of  the  upper  and  lower  lines  (by  reading  gain  settings). 

During  a  surface  photo-voltage  measurement,  the  gold  electrode  was 
disconnected  from  the  high-voltage  supply,  and  connected  to  a  high- 
impedance  detector,  similar  to  that  used  in  the  work  of  Brattain  and 
Bardeen.^  A  value  for  the  chopped  light  intensity  was  chosen  to  give  a 
contact  potential  change  that  was  generally  not  more  than  5  mV.  A 
simultaneous  measurement  of  the  photoconductivity  was  also  made. 

The  gas  cycle  was  similar  to  that  described  by  Brattain  and  Bar- 
deen.^  Some  variations  were  made  in  it  to  try  to  spread  out  the  rate  of 
change  with  time  so  that  the  data  could  be  obtained  without  large  gaps. 
The  cycle  used  was:  (i)  sparked  oxygen  1  min,  (ii)  dry  O2 ,  (iii)  mixture 
of  dry  and  wet  O2 ,  (iv)  wet  O2 ,  (v)  wet  No ,  (vi)  a  mixture  of  dry  and 
wet  N2 ,  (vii)  dry  O2 ,  (viii)  dry  O2 ,  triple  flow,  and  (ix)  ozone  normal 
flow.  The  normal  rate  of  gas  flow  was  about  2  liters  per  minute;  the  wet 
gas  was  obtained  by  bubbling  through  water  (probably  about  90  per 


Fig.  3  —  Picture  of  field  effect-photoconductivity  pattern,  as  observed  on 
oscilloscope.  Dark  curve  at  the  bottom.  , 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES    1027 

cent  r.h.)  and  the  mixture  of  dry  and  wet  was  obtained  by  letting  ap- 
proximately one-half  the  gas  flow  bubble  through  H2O.  In  carrying  out 
the  experiment,  it  was  found  convenient  to  carry  out  alternately  a  com- 
plete cycle  of  field  effect  and  surface  photo-voltage  measurements.  The 
values  of  the  photoconductivity  at  equivalent  points  in  successive  cycles 
could  be  compared,  in  order  to  check  that  no  systematic  error  was  intro- 
duced by  this  procedure. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  the  folloAving  measurements  Avere  made: 

1.  All  dimensions  were  determined. 

2.  The  resistivity  of  the  sample  was  found,  and  also  the  body  life- 
time, on  another  specimen  cut  from  the  same  crystal. 

3.  The  amplitude  of  the  voltage  swing  was  measured. 

4.  The  amplifiers  in  the  field  effect  circuit  were  calibrated. 

5.  The  capacity  of  the  germanium-gold  condenser  was  determined 
(by  a  substitutional  method).  The  value  obtained  was  larger  than 
that  calculated  from  the  parallel-plate  formula,  because  of  the  edge 
effects. 

6.  A  standard  square-wave  voltage  was  introduced  into  the  surface 
photo-voltage  circuit,  in  order  to  calibrate  the  high-impedance  detector. 

7.  At  several  points  in  the  cycle,  the  fundamental  mode  lifetime  of  the 
sample  was  determined  by  the  photoconductivity  decay  method.  This 
calibrated  the  90  cyc/sec  photoconductivity  measurements,  without  the 
necessity  for  a  knowledge  of  the  light  intensity. 

IV.  RESULTS 

Measurements  were  made  on  two  samples:  one  n-type,  22.6  ohm  cm 
(X  =  0.345),  the  other  p-type,  8.1  ohm  cm  (X  =  17.7).  The  body  life- 
time for  both  samples  was  greater  than  10~  sec,  so  that  for  slices  of  the 
thickness  used  (0.025  cm.  or  less),  and  for  values  of  s  in  the  range  en- 
countered, body  recombination  may  be  ignored. 

Results  of  typical  field-effect  runs  for  the  two  samples  are  indicated 
in  Tables  I  and  II.  The  first  column  in  each  table  gives  the  time  in 
minutes  from  the  beginning  of  the  cycle  at  which  the  measurements 
were  made.  The  second  column  shows  the  "effective  mobility,"  dAG/d'2, 
obtained  from  the  observed  (dark)  field  effect  signal  voltage  AFi  (see 
Fig.  3)  by  use  of  the  formula:  jueff  =  wh^AVi/Ipo^CVapp  ,  where  w  is  the 
width  of  the  slice,  t  the  thickness,  /  the  dc  flowing  through  it,  po  the  re- 
sistivity, C  the  capacity  of  the  germanium-gold  condenser,  and  Fapp 
the  voltage  applied  across  it.  The  third  column  shows  the  mean  value  of 
8{  =  Ap/ni),  obtained  from  the  mean  photoconductivity  signal  voltage 


1028      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195G 


Table  I  —  22,6  ohm  cm  n-TYPE  Cycle  12. 
Relative  Light  Intensity  0.082 


Time  min. 

cm^ 

s 

^      cm2 

cm 

'^"  volt  sec 

""^    volt  sec 

sec 

0 

Sparked  O2 

1 

Changed  to  dry  C 

>o 

1.5 

334 

7.85  X  10-2 

520 

90 

2.5 

344 

6.9    X  10-2 

585 

103 

5.5 

344 

6.2    X  10-2 

595 

114 

6.5 

344 

6.07  X  10-2 

595 

117 

7.0 

Changed  to  mixture  of  dry  &  wet  O2 

7.5 

136 

4.4    X  10-2 

520 

161 

8.5 

84 

4.02  X  10-2 

440 

177 

9.0 

52 

3.60  X  10-2 

270 

196 

10.0 

Changed  to  full  wet  O2 

11.0 

-660 

2.26  X  10-2 

-440 

314 

11.5 

-890 

1.74  X  10  2 

-780 

408 

12.0 

-960 

1.67  X  10-2 

-910 

425 

13.0 

Changed  to  full  wet  N2 

18.0 

Changed  to  mixture  of  dry  &  wet  No 

19.5 

-1150 

1.67  X  10-2 

-1060 

425 

20.5 

-1050 

1.74  X  10-2 

-960 

408 

22.5 

-990 

1.83  X  10-2 

-890 

390 

23.0 

Changed  to  dry  C 

)., 

23.5 

-430 

2.98  X  10-2 

-220 

238 

23.8 

-290 

.    3.2    X  10-2 

0 

222 

24.0 

-84 

3.81  X  10-2 

240 

186 

24.5 

31 

4.3    X  10-2 

310 

165 

26.5 

146 

4.7    X  10-2 

410 

151 

27.0 

Tripled  flow  of  dry  O2 

27.5 

220 

5.1     X  10-2 

450 

139 

29.5 

260 

5.7    X  10-2 

510 

124 

31.5 

280 

6.2    X  10-2 

510 

114 

35.0 

Changed  to  ozone 

35.5 

310 

6.8    X  10-2 

510 

104 

37.5 

320 

8.2    X  10-2 

490 

87 

AF2  by  use  of  the  formula:  8  =  wtpiAVn/Kmpo',  where  p,  is  the  intrinsic 
resistivity  and  fm  the  length  of  the  illuminated  part  of  the  slice.  The 
fourth  column  shows  the  apparent  effective  mobility  in  the  presence  of 
light,*  obtained  from  the  field  effect  signal  voltage  AF3  in  the  presence 
of  light,  using  the  same  formula  as  that  giving  iJen  .  The  last  column 
shows  the  surface  recombination  velocity,  which  is  proportional  to  8" 
for  fixed  light  intensity,  the  constant  of  proportionality  being  deter- 
mined by  comparison  with  measurements  of  the  fundamental  mode 
lifetime. 

The  results  of  typical  surface  photo-voltago  nms  are  sho\\n  in  Tables 

*  One  must  be  careful  to  avoid  thinking  of  Mtif*  as  a  true  field  clfect  mobilit.y, 
since  it  is  really  a  sum  of  two  cjuite  different  components:  the  true  held  effect 
mobility  Meff  ,  and  a  term,  proportional  to  thickness  of  the  slice,  arising  from  the 
jjhotoconductivity. 


?! 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES    1029 


Table  II  • — 8.1  ohm  cm  ^-type  Cycle  5. 
Relative  Light  Intensity  0.25 


Time  min. 

cm2 

s 

,      cm2 

cm 

Me  f  f        1  ^ 

Meff       ■    fi 

volt  sec 

volt  sec 

sec 

0 



Started  sparked  O2 

1.0 

Changed  to  dry  O2 

1.5 

307 

4.1  X  10-2 

490 

503 

3.5 

318 

3.2  X  10-2 

490 

660 

6.0 

Changed  to  mixture  of 

wet  &  dry  O2 

7.5 

273 

1.4  X  10-2 

376 

1480 

9.5 

239 

1.3  X  10-= 

320 

1580 

11.0 

Changed  to  wet  C 

)2 

11.5 

94 

1.2  X  10-2 

-194 

1690 

12.5 

-200 

1.1  X  10-2 

-230 

1820 

15.5 

-216 

1.2  X  10-2 

-285 

1690 

17.0 

Changed  to  wet  N2 

IS.  5 

-352               1 

1.6  X  10-2 

-570 

1310 

22.0 

Changed  to  mixture  of 

wet  &  dry  O2 

25.0 

-80 

1.1  X  10-2 

-137 

1820 

26.5 

0 

1.2  X  10-2 

31 

1690 

27.5 

3.3 

1.3  X  10-2 

58 

1630 

28. 0 

Changed  to  dry  C 

)■! 

29.0 

193 

1.9  X  10-2 

330 

1070 

29.5 

239 

2.2  X  10-2 

400 

1000 

30.5 

250 

2.4  X  10  2 

420 

873 

33.0 

Tripled  flow  of  dry  O2 

33.5 

296 

3.2  X  10  2 

500 

645 

fc    34.5 

296 

3.7  X  10-2 

525 

560 

■  -^6.5 

296 

4.2  X  10-2 

570 

490 

■   37.5 

296 

4.6  X  10-2 

570 

455 

■^    38.0 

Changed  to  ozone 

42.5 

330 

6.4  X  10  2 

535 

323 

III  and  1\'.  Values  of  8  were  obtained  from  the  photoconductivity  signal, 
as  before,  taking  the  actual  ilhiminated  length  as  the  length  of  the 
sample.  In  making  use  of  the  standard  square-wave  calibration  for  the 
surface  photo-voltage  measurement  (Section  III),  it  is  necessary  to 
allow  for  the  fact  that  the  measured  capacity  involves  the  whole  length 
of  the  sample,  plus  end  and  side  fringing  effects,  whereas  the  surface 
photo-voltage  measurements  im'ohcs  only  the  illuminated  length,  plus 
the  fringe  effect  at  the  sides. 

The  penultimate  column  in  Tables  III  and  1\  shows  the  ratio  of  the 
change  in  contact  potential,  measured  in  units  of  (kT/e),  to  the  added- 
carrier  parameter  5,  which  was  deduced  from  the  photoconductivity. 
This  is  not  j^et,  however,  the  true  surface  photo- voltage  function 
{dY/d8),  since  the  observed  change  in  contact  potential  includes  also 
the  Dember  potential  AF/^"^  which  occurs  between  the  illuminated  and 
non-illuminated  parts  of  the  body  of  the  semiconductor.  The  last  column 
in  Tables  III  and  lY  shows  the  true  values  of  (dY/d8),  obtained  by  sub- 


1080      THE    HELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SErTEMBER 

]mC) 

Table  III  —  22.6  ohm  cm  ti-type 

Cycle  7 

Time  mins. 

Relative  Light 
Intensity 

« 

ACP  volts 

/3ACP 
6 

dV 

ds 

Starting  condition  wet  N2 

6.5 

2.25 

0.36 

6.5  X  10-3 

0.7 

-0.10 

11.5 

2.25 

0.34 

1.0 

0.115 

-0.045 

12.0 

Changed  to  mixture  wet  and  dry  N2 

12.5 

2.25 

0.32 

2.2 

0.27 

0.10       ! 

13.0 

2.25 

0.34 

3.5 

0.40 

0.23 

13.5 

2.25 

0.35 

4.6 

0.51 

0.34 

14.5 

2.25 

0.38 

6.8 

0.70 

0.53 

15.5 

0.56 

0.10 

3.1 

1.2 

1.03 

17.5 

0.56 

0.11 

3.7 

1.33 

1.16 

18.0 

Changed  to  dry  O2 

18.5 

0.56                 0.16 

5.7 

1.4 

1.2     : 

19.5 

0.14                 0.06 

3.4 

2.2 

2.0 

22.0 

Changed  to  dry  O2  triple  flow 

24.5 

0.14 

0.082 

6.1 

2.9 

2.7 

Table  IV — -8.1  ohm  cm  p-type  Cy'cle  8 


Time  mins. 


Relative  Light 
Intensity 


ACP  volts 


/3ACP 
S 


dV 
dS~ 


Starting  condition  wet  N2 


0 

Changed  to 

mixture  wet 

and  dry  No 

0.5 

0.14               0.011 

-3.5  X  10-3 

-12.5 

-12.6 

1.0 

0.14               0.0088 

-2.1 

-9.6 

-9.7 

5.0 

Changed  to  mixture  wet 

and  dry  O2 

5.5 

0.56 

0.0275 

-1.8 

-2.6 

-2.7 

6.0 

0.56 

0.03 

-1.45 

-1.9 

-2.0 

7.5 

0.56 

0.0325 

-1.16 

-1.4 

-1.5 

9.5 

0.56 

0.035 

-1.08 

-1.2 

-1.3 

10.0 

Changed  to  dry  O2 

10.5 

0.56               0.044 

-0.71 

-0.63 

-0.69 

11.5 

0.56               0.055 

-0.49 

-0.35 

-0.41 

14.0 

Changed  to  dry  O2  tripl 

3  flow 

14.5 

0.56 

0.0625 

-0.32 

-0.20 

-0.26 

16.5 

2.25 

0.28 

-0.72 

-0.10 

-0.16 

20.5 

2.25 

0.33 

-0.42 

-0.05 

-0.11 

30.0 

Changed  to  ozone 

31.5 

2.25 

0.47 

+0.47 

+0.039 

-0.023 

32.5 

2.25 

0.53 

+  1.4 

+0.103 

+0.041 

tractiiig  from  (8A  c.p./5)  a  Dember  potential  correction,  given  by 
{b  —  1)/(X  +  b\'^).  (The  boundaries  of  the  illuminated  region  were 
sufficiently  distant  from  the  contacts  for  this  formula  to  apply.) 

Tables  III  and  IV  include  only  data  from  the  second  half  of  the 
cycle  (wet  N2  -^  ozone),  since  the  rate  of  change  of  A  c.p.  during  that 
part  of  the  first  half  in  which  dry  oxygen  was  replaced  by  wet  oxygen 
was  too  fast  to  follow. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1031 

The  reproducibility  of  all  the  data  from  cycle  to  cycle  was  good.  One 
surprising  result  is  that  the  surface  recombination  velocity  assumed 
its  maximum  value  close  to  the  "wet  nitrogen"  extreme  for  both  p-type 
and  n-type.  This  behavior  is  quite  different  from  that  reported  by 
Brattain  and  Bardeen/  who  found  s  to  be  constant  within  20  per  cent 
throughout  the  range  and  Stephenson  and  Keyes,*  who  found  a  maxi- 
mum value  sometimes  at  one  end,  sometimes  at  the  other,  and  some- 
times in  the  middle.  There  is  quite  good  agreement  on  the  other  hand, 
with  the  results  of  Many  et  al.^^"\  who  report  a  maximum  in  s  near  the 
wet  end  of  the  cycle.  The  result  of  Brattain  and  Bardeen  is  not  under- 
stood at  the  present  time,  and  is  probably  wrong.  The  differences  between 
the  present  work  and  that  of  Stephenson  and  Keyes  may  be  associated 
with  differences  in  surface  preparation. 


V.    ANALYSIS    OF  THE   RESULTS 

From  now  onwards  we  shall  express  all  experimental  and  calculated 
c[uantities  in  terms  of  the  following  dimensionless  ratios: 

Xs  =  :2s/eni£,  S  =  Ss  +  Tp  -  r„  (2) 

AG    —    AG/enilJLp£,  /leff    =    J"eff/Mp  ,  /"eff*    =    MeffV^P 

where  AG  is  the  surface  conductance,  £  the  Debye  length  for  intrinsic 
germanium  (1.4  X  10~  cm),  and  /Xp  is  the  mobility  for  holes  (1800  cm  v" 
sec~^).  Tables  V  and  VI  show  values  of  the  quantities  we  shall  need,  as 
functions  of  the  surface  potential  F,  calculated  from  the  theoretical 
considerations  of  Garrett  and  Brattain."  The  surface  conductance,  and 
the  differentials  in  the  fifth  and  sixth  columns,  are  evaluated  for 
8  =  0. 


Table  V  — 22.6  ohm  cm 

n-TYPE 

Y 

F-  InX 

Vp  -  r„ 

AG 

/a(Tp-f„)\ 

V         dY         Js 

-4.1 

/diTp  -  r„)\ 
V       ds       )y 

3 

4.1 

-10.3 

17.5 

-1.3 

2 

3.1 

-7.0 

10.6 

-2.6 

-0.8 

1 

2.1 

-4.9 

6.2 

-1.8 

-0.4 

0 

1.1 

-3.4 

3.3 

-1.3 

0.0 

-1 

0.1 

-2.3 

1.45 

-1.1 

0.5 

-2 

-0.9 

-1.2 

0.36 

-1.1 

1.3 

-3 

-1.9 

0.0 

0.0 

-1.4 

2.7 

-4 

-2.9 

1.7 

0.65 

-2.1 

5.2 

-5 

-3.9 

4.4 

2.65 

-3.5 

9.4 

-6 

-4.9 

8.9 

6.8 

-5.8 

16.3 

-7 

-5.9 

16.4 

14.4 

-9.5 

27.7 

1032      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   SEPTEMBER    1956 


Table  VI  —  8.1  ohm  cm  p-type 


Y 

F  -  InX 

ip  -  r„ 

AG 

/afrp  -  r„)  \ 

{d{Tp  -  Vn)\ 

8 

5.1 

-8 

9.8 

-5.5 

-87 

7 

4.1 

-4 

3.4 

-3.1 

-42 

6 

3.1 

-2 

0.8 

-1.9 

-19 

5 

2.1 

0 

0.0 

-1.45 

-8.2 

4 

1.1 

1 

0.25 

-1.3 

-3.4 

3 

0.1 

2 

1.3 

-1.45 

-1.5 

2 

-0.9 

4 

2.8 

-1.75 

-0.62 

1 

-1.9 

6 

4.8 

-2.4 

-0.21 

0 

-2.9 

9 

7.4 

-3.4 

0.0 

-1 

-3.9 

12 

10.9 

-4.3 

0.15 

-2 

-4.9 

18 

16.4 

-6.4 

0.31 

-3 

-5.9 

26 

25.0 

-10.0 

0.53 

The  first  problem  is  the  constructing,  from  the  experimental  results, 
of  the  curve  relating  AG  and  S.  The  experiments  provide  a  series  of  pic 
tures  like  Fig.  3,  each  one  corresponding  to  a  different  chemical  environ- 
ment, and  so  to  a  different  Y.  At  each  of  two  succeeding  pictures  of  this 
sort  one  knows  (i)  the  vertical  displacement  (photoconductivity)  be- 
tween the  dark  and  light  field  effect  curves;  and  (ii)  the  mean  difference 
in  the  dark  and  light  slopes,  and  hence  the  rate  of  change  of  photocon- 
ductivity with  applied  field,  and  therefore  with  S.  The  problem  is  to  de- 
duce the  horizontal  displacement  (in  2)  between  the  two  pictures. 

A  corrrection  must  first  be  made  for  the  fact  that  the  ambient  changes 
2  uniformly  on  both  surfaces,  whereas  the  applied  field  induces  charge 
only  on  the  lower  surface,  plus  fringing  effects.*  The  correction  is  applied 
by  taking  the  difference  in  slopes  (lUei*  —  /Jen),  and  multiplying  this  by 
(2/1.27),  where  the  number  1.27  is  deduced  for  the  given  geometry  from 
the  standard  edge-effect  formula.  This  having  been  done,  it  is  now  pos- 
sible to  take  the  revised  pictures  and  piece  them  together  to  form  tA\() 
smooth  curves  (Fig.  4).  The  process  of  assembling  such  a  diagram  de- 
termines the  horizontal  and  vertical  distances,  and  therefore  the  change 
of  2  and  AG,  between  successive  experiments. 

This  argument  may  be  given  analytically  as  follows.  First  notice  that 
the  photoconductivity  ^•oltage  in  the  absence  of  field  (AT%  in  Fig.  3)  is 
proportional  to  (1/s).  The  application  of  a  voltage  between  the  gold 
and  the  germanium  induces  some  charge  density  2  at  each  point  on  the 
germanium  surface,  2  being  (due  to  fringing  effects)  a  complicated 
function  of  position.  At  each  point  (1/s)  is  changed  by  an  amount 
2[(i(l/s)/(/2].  This  causes  the  photocondu(!tivity  in  the  presence  of  field 


We  are  indebted  to  W.  L.  Brown  for  l^ringing  this  to  our  attention. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1033 


24  — 
22- 
20- 
18  - 
16  - 
14  - 


G  12 
10 
8 
6 
4 
2 


\ 

\ 

\ 


/ 


J L 


I         I         I         I 


iLUdi 


• 

• 
• 


J L 


J L 


-50 


-40 


-30 


-20 


■10 


0 

St 


10 


20 


30 


40 


50 


Fig.  4  —  Construction  of  the  curve  relating  AG  (surface  conductivity,  in  units 
of  ejupMjcC)  and  s  (surface  charge,  in  units  of  en,£). 


to  differ  from  that  in  zero  field,  and  gives  rise  to  the  voltage  difference 
(AFs  —  AFi)  shown  in  Fig.  3.  Expressing  this  difference  in  terms  of  the 
difference  (jUeff*  —  Meff)  between  the  apparent  and  true  effective  mobilities 
in  the  presence  of  light  (see  Section  IV),  one  finds: 

^.f/(l/s)    /CuniA 


iMeff*    ~    Meff)     — 


di: 


2w 


(3) 


where  K  is  the  constant  of  proportionality  between  (1/s)  and  the  photo- 
I  conductivity  signal  AVo ,  and  C'unit  is  the  capacity  per  unit  of  the  ger- 
manium-gold condenser  in  the  illuminated  region,  which  is  1.27  times 
[  the  parallel-plate  formula.  From  a  series  of  measurements  of  (^eff*  —  fJeu) 
I  and  AFo  it  is  now  possible  to  obtain  S  by  graphical  integration: 


S  = 


2/2 


^  unit 


dAV-2 


eni£>/  \/po'C/  \  2w  /  J   ijl^.u*  —  Meff 


(4) 


This  and  the  giuplucul  method  are  of  course  e(iuivalent.  it  is  worth- 
while emphasizing  again  that  either  technitiue  depends  for  its  validity 
I  on  the  fact  that  the  distribution  of  fast  states  is  unaffected  by  the  gas 
I  changes  in  the  Brattain-Bardeen  cycle,  as  shown  in  the  experiments  of 
jl  Brown  and  Montgomery.^  If,  however,  the  assumption  were  too  far  from 
the  truth,  the  fitting  of  both  slopes  in  Fig.  4  would  be  impossible.  The  only 


1034      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


18 


16 


14 


12 


10 


p3 

1 

\ 

1-2 

\ 

\ 

-1 

y 

I 

/ 

V,0 

y 

/ 

\-2_' 

./ 

-50 


■50  -25 


0 
St 


-25 


25 


50 


75 


100 


125 


28 


26 


24 


22 


20 


18 


16 


14 


12 


10 


150 


Fig.  5  —  Curves  showing  AG  (surface  conductivity,  in  units  of  eij.pni£)  and 
S  surface  charge,  in  units  of  en,£)  for  the  22.6  ohm-cm  sample  (upper  curve)  and 
for  the  8.1  ohm-cm  sample  (lower  curve).  Values  of  Y,  deduced  from  the  surface 
conductivity,  are  indicated  on  the  curves. 


place  at  which  fitting  was  at  all  difficult  was  at  the  extreme  wet  end.  For 
most  of  the  range,  therefore,  the  method  is  at  least  internally  consistent. 
Fig.  5  shows  the  result  of  carrying  out  this  procedure  for  the  n  and  p- 
type  samples.  The  data  were  averaged  over  a  number  of  runs.  The  num- 
bers appearing  on  the  curves  represent  values  of  Y,  obtained  by  reference 
to  Tables  V  and  VI. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1035 

From  Fig.  5  one  may  now  calculate*  the  changes  occurring  in  Xs , 
the  (reduced)  charge  in  fast  states,  since  Fp  —  r„  may  be  read  from 
Tables  V  and  VI,  and  Ss  -  S  -  (f^  -  f,).  Fig.  6  shows  (d2s/dY)i 
as  a  function  of  1"  —  In  X,  calculated  from  the  experimental  results  in 
this  way.  [The  reason  for  plotting  against  Y  —  In  X  instead  of  Y  is  that 
this  quantity  represents  the  difference,  in  imits  of  (kT/e),  between  the 
electrostatic  potential  at  the  surface  and  the  Fermi  level.  In  this  way  the 
effects  of  difference  from  sample  to  sample  in  the  position  of  the  Fermi 
level  in  the  interior  are  eliminated.]  Notice  that  the  measurements  of 
{dT^s/dY)s  for  the  two  samples  have  the  same  general  shape,  and  that 
the  turning  points  of  the  two  curves  occur  at  about  the  same  value  of 


dY 


-30 


Fig.  6  —  Differential  charge  in  fast  states  versus  surface  potential.  The  graphs 
show  {dZs/dY)  plotted  against  F  —  In  X.  Dots:  p-type;  circles:  n-type.  Atypical 
result  of  Brown  and  Montgomery,  using  28  ohm-cm  p-type  germanium,  is  also 
shown. 


1036      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


(F  —  111  X).  Fig.  7  shows  the  variation  of  surface  rerombiiiation  velocity 
with  F  —  hi  X,  using  the  experimental  photoconductivity  data  and  values 
of  y  read  from  Fig.  5.  The  values  of  s  have  been  divided  by  (X  +  X~'), 
as  indicated,  since  s/(X  +  X"  )  is  expected  to  be  the  same,  at  a  given 
value  of  ()'  —  In  X),  for  all  samples,  so  long  as  the  distribution  of  fast 
states  is  the  same.  The  agreement  shown  in  Fig.  7  is  probably  closer 
than  would  be  expected  in  the  light  of  the  experimental  accuracy. 

Fig.  8  shows  the  observed  dependence  of  dY/d8  on  (F  —  In  X)  for  both 
samples,  using  the  data  of  Tables  III  and  IV,  and  using  the  photocon- 
ducti^'ity  to  determine,  from  Fig.  7,  the  value  of  F  at  each  point.  On 
the  figiu'e  the  expected  limiting  values  (  —  X  and  X~  )  are  shown  for  both 
samples.  Of  the  four  asymptotes,  the  higher  limit  of  (dY/d8)  for  the 
At-type  sample  is  satisfactorily  reached  for  large  negative  values  of  Y; 
the  experimental  values  for  the  p-type  sample  appear  to  be  approaching 
the  expected  limit  for  large  positive  values  of  F,  while  the  information 
regarding  the  approach  to  the  two  lower  limits  is  too  fragmentary  to  do 
more  than  show  that  the  order  of  magnitude  is  as  expected.  Now  taking 
the  data  shown  in  Fig.  8,  making  use  of  (1)  and  the  calculations  given 
in  Tables  III  and  IV,  one  calculates  (82^/88) Y/(d2,/dY)s  .  The  values 
so  found  are  plotted  against  Y  in  Fig.  9.  Fig.  6,  7  and  9,  showing  the  ob- 
served variation  of  {dXs/dY)s  ,  s  and  {d2s/d8)Y/id2s/dY)s  with  F, 
furnish  a  complete  description  of  the  properties  of  the  fast  states  at  the 

200 


CO 


100 
80 

60 

k   50 

+ 

-^40 
30 

20 

10 


o 
o 

o 
o 

._5 1 

—  o 

: • •    

o 

o 

^2 ? 

.o • 

o  • 

o 


-2 


-1  0  1 

Y-mx 


Fig.  7  —  Surface  recombination  velocity  versus  surface  potential.  The  curves 
show  s/(X  +  X~')  plotted  against  F  —  In  X.  Dots:  p-type;  circles:  n-type. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1037 


10 


dY 
drf"  4 


10-' 
e 


10 


y 

^ 

,»— — 

- 

^/^ 

r 

/^- 

- 

P^ 

• 





— -2 

8 

«5. 

» 

» 

/. 

r 

• 

c 

\ 

- 

/ 

\ 

- 

/ 

\ 

0 

- 

-wl 

/' 

\  ® 

- 

/ 

•^ 

£3"  a 

3 

<» 

1» 

4 

/ 

O 

a, 

/ 

i 

- 

/ 

a 

' 

- 

/ 

1 

- 

"~~~"" 

^s 

/ 

»          / 

5^ 

- 

1 
^ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\l 

-4 


-2 


-1  0  1 

Y-ln\ 


Fig.  8  —  Surface  photo-voltage  (change  in  contact  potential  in  relation  to 
added  carrier  concentration).  dY/d8  is  shown  plotted  against  F  —  In  X.  Dots:  p- 
fype;  circles:  7i-type.  Data  from  different  runs  are  distinguished  by  modifications 
to  these  symbols.  The  left-hand  branches  denote  absolute  magnitudes,  since  the 
ratio  is  negative  there.  At  the  extreme  left  hand  of  the  diagram,  the  fast  states 
near  to  the  Fermi  level  are  in  good  contact  with  the  valence  band:  at  the  extreme 
right  hand,  to  the  conduction  band.  The  theoretical  asymptotes  (X~i  to  the  left 
and  X  to  the  right)  are  also  indicated. 


temperature  studied.  This  is  the  basic  information  which  any  theoreti- 
cal treatment  must  explain.  In  the  succeeding  paper  this  matter  is  dis- 
cussed from  the  point  of  view  of  the  statistics  of  a  distribution  of  fast 
states,  and  information  on  the  cross  sections,  as  well  as  on  the  distribu- 
tion itself,  is  derived  from  the  data  just  presented. 


1038      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

10 


w 


>       4 


10 

W 


10" 


10-2 


- 

y 

^ 

- 

- 

/ 

/ 

^- 

^ 

u       — 

8--. 

,^^ 

■o^. 

/ 

/ 

/ 

^^ 

V 

/ 

< 

N. 

- 

/ 

\ 

- 

/ 

i 

\ 

- 

/ 

\ 

\ 

- 

/ 

- 

- 

- 

- 

-6         -5 


-3        -2-1  0  1 

Y-ln\ 


Fig.  9  — The  function  (a2s/S5)y/(9S,/ay)j  plotted  against  F  -  In  X.  Dots: 
p-type;  circles:  n-type. 


VI.    FURTHER     COMMENTS 

The  development  given  in  the  previous  section  has  concerned  particu- 
larly the  properties  of  the  fast  states.  As  to  the  slow  states,  the  experi- 
ments are  much  less  informati^'e.  The  variations  of  1^  with  gas  are 
generally  consistent  with  the  variations  of  contact  potential  previously 
reported/  although  the  total  range  in  Y  (±0.13  volt)  is  smaller  by  about 
a  factor  of  2  than  that  in  contact  potential  found  in  the  previous  work. 
One  must  say  that  roughly  half  the  change  of  contact  potential  is  in 
Y B  ,  (i.e.,  8Y)  and  half  in  Vd  ,  the  potential  drop  across  the  ion  layer. 


COMBINED  MEASUREMENTS  ON  ETCHED  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1039 

It  may  be  seen  from  the  figures  that  it  is  the  quantity  (F  —  hi  X), 
lather  than  Y,  which  appears  to  be  characteristic  of  the  point  in  the  cycle 
reached.  This  property  of  a  semiconductor  surface,  and  possible  reasons 
therefore,  have  often  been  discussed  in  the  literature."  The  total  range 
of  surface  potential  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  10,  which  is  drawn  to  scale,  and 
also  shows  sundry  other  points  of  interest  found  in  the  present  research. 
The  potential  diagrams  for  n-type  and  p-type  are  drawn  with  the  Fermi 
levels  aligned,  to  show  the  relation  between  the  property  (F  —  In  X)  = 
const,  and  the  frequently  observed  smallness  of  the  contact  potential 
difference  between  n  and  p-type  germanium. 

As  to  the  reproducibility  and  accuracy  of  the  work  presented  here, 
the  following  points  may  be  of  interest:  (i)  The  measurements  were  re- 
peated on  another  n-type  sample  of  nearly  the  same  resistivity  as  the 
one  reported  here,  but  cut  from  a  different  crystal.  The  results  on  this 
sample  were  indistinguishable,  within  the  experimental  error,  from  those 
found  on  the  first  n-type  sample,  (ii)  If  the  sample  was  re-etched  in  pre- 
cisely the  same  way  as  before,  and  the  experiments  repeated,  the  re- 
sults were  in  good  agreement  with  those  obtained  before.  However, 
variations  in  the  etching  procedure  sometimes  gave  quite  different  re- 


X    MAXIMUM   IN    S 

o   ZERO  OF  dv/dcT 

□    INVERSION    POINT 


p-TYPE    SAMPLE 


n-TYPE   SAMPLE 


Fig.  10  —  The  shapes  of  the  surface  space-charge  regions  for  the  p-type  and 
/i-type  samples  in  the  extremes  of  gaseous  environment.  The  two  surfaces  are  to 
the  center  of  the  figure.  The  solid  curves  show  the  center  of  the  gap  (intrinsic 
Fermi  level)  plotted  against  distance,  in  units  of  an  intrinsic  Debj-e  length.  Also 
shown  are  the  positions  of  the  zeros  of  (dY/dS),  the  maxima  of  s,  and  the  minima 
of  surface  conductivitj'. 


1040      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

suits.  Wc  hope  to  discuss  this  at  a  future  date,  (iii)  The  accuracy  of  the 
measurements  is  not  high.  Some  of  the  more  directly-derivable  quanti- 
ties, such  as  s,  should  be  known  to  5  per  cent,  but  a  quantity 
like  (d'2s/d8)/(dZs/dY),  which  is  only  obtained  after  a  long  and  elabo- 
rate calculation  involving  a  number  of  corrections,  is  perhaps  uncertain 
to  30  per  cent.  ^ 

VII.    CONCLUSIONS 

This  paper  has  presented  results  of  combined  measurements  of  field 
effect,  photoconductivity,  change  of  photoconductivity  with  field,  fila- 
ment lifetime  and  surface  photo-voltage,  on  slices  of  germanium.  From 
the  measurements,  the  surface  potential  Y  has  been  found  at  each  point, 
and  the  variations  of  the  quantities  (dZs/dV),  s  and  {dI,,/d8)/(dI,s/dY) 
with  Y  determined. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  record  our  thanks  to  W.  L.  Brown,  for  comments 
on  field  effect  techniques  and  many  stimulating  discussions,  to  H.  R. 
Moore,  mIio  constructed  the  high-voltage  power  supply,  and  to  A.  A. 
Studna,  who  assisted  in  the  experiments.  We  are  also  grateful  to  C\ 
Herring  for  comments  on  the  text. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  J.  Bardeen,  Surface  Properties  of  Germanium,  B. S.T.J. , 

32,  pp.  1-41,  Jan.  1953. 

2.  C.  G.  B.  Garrett  and  W.  H.  Brattain,  Physical  Theory  of  Semiconductor  Sur- 

faces, Phys.  Rev.,  99,  pp.  376-387,  July  15,  1955. 

3.  W.  L.  Brown,  Surface  Potential  and  Surface  Charge  Distribution  from  Semi- 

conductor Field  Effect  Measurements,  Phys.  Rev.,  98,  p.  1565,  June  1,  1955. 

4.  H.  C.  Montgomery  and  W.  L.  Brown,  Field-Induced  Conductivity  Changes  in 

Germanium,  Pliys.  Rev.,  103,  Aug.  15,  1956. 

5.  J.  R.  Schrieffer,  Effective  Carrier  Mobility  in  Surface  Charge  Layers,  Phj's. 

Rev.,  97,  pp.  641-646,  Feb.  1,  1955. 

6.  C.  G.  B.  Garrett  and  W.  H.  Brattain,  Interfacial  Photo-Effects  in  Germanium 

at  Room  Temperature,  Proc.  of  the  Conference  on  Photo  Conductivity, 
Nov.,  1954,  Wiley,  in  press. 

7.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  C.  G.  B.  Garrett,  Surface  Properties  of  Germanium  and 

Silicon,  Ann.  N.  Y.  Acad,  of  Science,  58,  pp.  951-958,  Sept.,  1954. 

8.  D.  T.  Stevenson  and  R.  J.  Keyes,  ]\Ieasurements  of  Surface  Recombination 

Velocity  at  Germanium  Surfaces,  Physica,  20,  pp.  1041-1046,  Nov.,  1954. 

9.  J.  Clerk  Maxwell,  Electricity  and  Magnetism,  3rd  Edition,  1,  p.  310,  Clarendon 

Press,  1904. 
K).  W.  van  Roosbroeck,  Theory  of  Photomagnetoelectric  Effect  in  Semiconduc- 
tors, Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.  1713-1725,  March  15,  1956. 

11.  J.  Bardeen  and  S.  R.  Morrison,  Surface  Barriers  and  Surface  Conduction, 

Physica,  20,  p.  873,  1954. 

12.  1'].  Harnik,  A.  Many,  Y.  Margoninski  and  E.  Alexander,  Correlation  Between 

Surface  Recombination  Velocity  and  Surface  Conductivity  in  Germanium, 
Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.  1434-1435,  Feb.  15,  1956. 


Distribution  and  Cross- Sections  of  Fast 
States  on  Germanium  Surfaces 

By  C.  G.  B.  GARRETT  and  W.  IL  BRATTAIN 

(Manuscript  recieved  May  10,  1956) 

A  theoretical  treatment  uf  the  Jield  effect,  tiurface  photo-voltage  and  surface 
recombination  phenomena  has  been  carried  out,  starting  with  the  Hall- 
Shockley-Read  model  and  generalizing  to  the  case  of  a  continuous  trap  dis- 
tribution. The  theory  is  applied  to  the  experimental  results  given  in  the 
previous  paper.  One  concludes  that  the  distribution  of  fast  surface  states  is 
such  that  the  density  is  loivest  near  the  centre  of  the  gap,  increasing  sharply 
as  the  accessible  limits  of  surface  potential  are  approached.  From  the  sur- 
face photo-voltage  measurements  one  obtains  an  estimate  of  150  for  the  ra- 
tio (a-p/an)  of  the  cross-sections  for  transitions  into  a  state  from  the  valence 
and  conduction  bands,  showing  that  the  fast  states  are  largely  acceptor-type. 
On  the  assumption  that  surface  recombination  takes  place  through  the  fast 
states,  the  cross-sectioris  are  found  to  be:  dp  '-^6  X  10"^  cm  and  o-„  -^ 
4  X  10"''  cm~. 

I.    INTRODUCTION 

The  existence  of  traps,  or  "fast"  states,  on  a  semiconductor  surface, 
becomes  apparent  from  three  physical  experiments:  measurements  of 
field  effect,  of  surface  photovoltage,'  and  of  surface  recombination  ve- 
locity s.  Results  of  combined  measurements  of  these  three  quantities  on 
etched  surfaces  of  p-  and  r?-type  germanium  have  been  presented  in 
the  preceding  paper. ^  The  present  paper  is  concerned  with  the  conclu- 
sions which  may  be  drawn  from  these  experiments  as  to  the  distribution 
in  energy  of  these  surface  traps,  and  the  distribution  of  cross-sections 
for  transitions  between  the  traps  and  the  conduction  and  valence  bands. 

The  statistics  of  trapping  at  a  surface  level  has  been  developed  by 
Brattain  and  Bardeen^  and  by  Stevenson  and  Keyes,^  following  the  work 
on  body  trapping  centers  of  Half  and  of  Shockley  and  Read. 

It  is  known  that  surface  traps  are  numerous  on  a  mechanically  dam- 
aged surface  or  on  a  surface  that  has  been  bombarded  but  not  annealed; 

1041 


1042      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

and  that  on  an  etched  surface  their  density  is  comparatively  low.  It  is 
also  known  that  the  available  results  cannot  be  accounted  for  by  a 
single  level,  or  even  two  levels,  so  that  one  is  evidently  dealing  either  with 
a  large  number  of  discrete  states  or  a  continuous  spectrum.  A  given  trap- 
ping centre  is  completely  described  by  specifying:  (i)  whether  it  is  donor- 
like (either  neutral  or  positive)  or  acceptor-like  (neutral  or  negative); 
(ii)  its  position  in  energy;  and  (iii)  the  values  for  the  constants  Cp  and 
Cn  (related  to  cross-sections)  occurring  in  the  Shockley-Read  theory. 
In  this  paper  we  shall  deduce  what  we  can  about  these  quantities,  using 
the  experimental  results  previously  presented. 

At  the  outset  it  must  be  admitted  that  it  is  by  no  means  certain  that 
the  same  set  of  surface  states  appear  in  the  field-effect  experiment  and 
give  rise  to  surface  recombination.  However,  (i)  it  is  found  that  such  sur- 
face treatments  as  increase  s  also  reduce  the  effective  mobility  in  the 
field-effect  experiment;  (ii)  any  surface  trap  must  be  able  to  act  as  a 
recombination  centre,  unless  one  of  the  quantities  Cp  and  C„  is  zero; 
and  (iii)  the  capture  cross-sections  obtained  by  assuming  that  the  field- 
effect  traps  are  in  fact  recombination  centres  are,  as  we  shall  see  below, 
eminently  reasonable. 

As  to  the  nature  of  the  surface  traps,  not  too  much  can  be  said  at  the 
moment.  The  lack  of  sensitivity  to  the  cycle  of  chemical  environment 
used  argues  against  their  being  associated  with  easily  desorbable  surface 
atoms;  the  intrinsically  short  time  constants  (Section  5)  suggest  that 
they  are  on  or  very  close  to  the  germanium  surface.  The  possibility  that 
the  surface  traps  are  Tamm  levels  remains;  or  they  could  be  corners 
or  dislocations.  However,  the  reproducibility  with  w  hich  a  given  value  of 
s  may  be  obtained  by  a  given  chemical  treatment  of  a  given  sample, 
followed  by  exposure  to  a  given  ambient,  suggests  that  there  is  nothing 
accidental  about  their  occurrence. 

II.   STATISTICS    OF   A    DISTRIBUTION    OF   SURFACE   TRAPS 

We  start  by  quoting  results  from  the  work  of  Shockley  and  Read 
and  Stevenson  and  Keyes''  on  the  occupancy  factor  ft  and  the  flow  U 
of  minority  carriers  (per  unit  area)  into  a  set  of  traps  having  a  single 
energy  level  and  statistical  weight  unity: 

ft  =  (Cnfi.  +  Cpp,)/[Cn(n.  +  ni)  +  Cp(p,  +  p,)]  (1) 

U  =  CnCp(p,ns  -  ni)/\(\{n.  +  m)  +  C,(p..  +  pOl  ,  (2) 

where  the  symbols  ha\^e  the  following  mc^anings: 

ns ,  Ps  —  densities  of  electrons  and  iioles  present  at  the  surface 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1043 

>h  ,  pi  —  values  which  the  equilibrium  electron  and  hole  densities 
at  the  surface  would  have  if  the  Fermi  level  coincided  with 
the  trapping  level 
Cn  =  NtVTnCTn  ',  Cp  =  NiVrpCTp  ,  where  iV^  stands  for  density  of  traps  per 
unit  area,  Vm  is  the  thermal  speed  for  electrons  and  Vtp  that 
for  holes,  and  a„  and  a,,  are  the  cross-sections  for  transitions 
between  the  traps  and  the  conduction  and  valence  bands 
respectively. 
If  we  introduce  the  surface  potential  Y  and  the  c^uantity  5,  defined  as 
(Ap/'Hi),  where  Ap  is  the  added  carrier  density  in  the  body  of  the  semi- 
conductor, we  may  write: 

ris  =  X~^/iie^(l  +  X5) 

Ps  =  Xn;e~^(l  +  \~^8) 

where  X  =  po/ni ,  po  being  the  e(iuilibriiun  hole  concentration  in  the  body 
of  the  semiconductor.  We  further  introduce  the  notation: 

7ii  =  iiier"         pi  =  nj-e" 

(4) 

(Cp/CnY    =    X 

The  quantity  v  thus  represents  the  energy  difference,  measured  in 
units  of  (kT/e),  between  the  trapping  level  and  the  centre  of  the  gap;* 
and  is  positive  for  states  below,  negative  for  those  above,  this  le^'el.  The 
parameter  x  ^vill  be  most  directly  associated  m  ith  whether  the  state  is 
donor-like  or  acceptor-like.  If  it  is  donor-like  (neutral  or  positive),  a 
transition  involving  an  electron  in  the  conduction  band  will  be  aided  by 
Coulomb  attraction  whereas  one  involving  a  hole  will  not;  so  one  would 
expect  X  «  1-  For  an  acceptor-like  trap,  (neutral  or  negative)  the  con- 
trary holds,  and  one  expects  x  ^  1- 

Using  (4),  the  occupancy  factor  (1)  becomes 

.    ^  X~'X-Va  +  X3)  +  xe' 

'       X-'\-'e^l  +  X5)  +  x-'e-"  +  xXe-'Xl  +  ^''8)  +  xe"  (5) 

=  iX~*e~*''e*''  sech  ii  {Y  +  v)  -  h  (n  X]         for  5  =  0 

Note  that,  in  thermodynamic  ec[uilibrium,  the  occupancy  factor  does 
not  depend  in  any  way  on  the  cross-sections,  whereas  for  5  5^  0  it  does, 
through  the  ratio  x- 

*  Strictly  speaking,  one  should  say  "position  of  the  Fermi  level  for  intrinsic 
semiconductor"  instead  of  "centre  of  the  gap."  These  will  fail  to  coincide  if 
the  effective  masses  of  holes  and  electrons  are  unequal,  as  they  certainly  are  in 
germanium. 


1044      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Similarly,  the  flow  of  carrier-pairs  to  the  surface  (2)  becomes: 

U  = 

(6) 


x-iX-ie^(l  +  X5)  x-'e-"  +  xXe"''(l  +  X'^S)  xe" 


wliich,  for  6-^0,  tends  to  the  linear  law  U  =  sniS,  where  s,  the  surface 
recombination  velocity,  is  given  by: 

s/{:VTnVTpf''    =    NtSt 

where 

St  ={\  +  X'')ian<7,y''/2\ch(p  +  fnx)  +ch(Y  -  (n\  -  fnx)]     (7) 
The  surface  density  Sg  of  trapped  charge  is  given  by: 

=  Nd\  (8) 


2., 


where  ft  is  the  occupancy  factor,  given  by  (5). 

Now  let  us  turn  to  the  question  of  a  distribution  of  surface  traps 
through  the  energy  v.  Suppose  that  the  density  of  states  having  v  lying 
lietween  v  and  v  -\-  dp  is  N(v)  dv,  expressed  in  units  (ni£).  Then  the  total 
surface  recombination  velocity  arising  from  all  traps,  and  the  total 
trapped  surface  charge  density,  are  given  by : 

s/ivrnVrpY"  =  ni£  J  St{p)N{v)  dv  (9) 

2,  =  \  Jt{v)N{v)dp  (10) 

where  St{v)  and /«(i')  are  explicit  functions  of  v,  given  by  (5)  and  (7). 
The  limits  of  the  integrals  in  (9)  and  (10)  are  the  values  of  v  correspond- 
ing to  the  conduction  and  valence  band  edges;  however,  as  we  shall  see, 
it  is  often  possible  to  replace  these  limits  by  ±  «= . 

In  summing  up  the  contributions  in  the  way  represented  l\v  (9),  we 
ha\'e  implicitly  ignored  the  possibility  of  inter-trap  transitions,  suppos- 
ing that  the  popidation  of  each  trap  depends  only  on  the  rates  of  ex- 
change of  charge  with  the  conduction  and  valence  bands,  and  is  inde- 
pendent of  the  population  of  any  other  trap  of  differing  energy. 

What  kind  of  function  do  we  expect  N{v)  to  be?  Brattain  and  Bardeen' 
postulated  that  N{v)  was  of  the  form  of  two  delta-functions,  correspond- 
ing to  discrete  trapping  levels  high  and  low  in  the  band.  This  assumption 
is  not  cousislciit  with  the  observed  facts  in  ri'gard  to  field  cITi^-l,  surface 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES      1045 

photo-voltage,  or  surface  recombination  velocit}'.  The  general  difficult}' 
is  that  the  obser\'ed  cjuantities  usually  vary  less  rapidly  with  surface 
potential  than  one  would  expect.  It  is  possible  to  fit  the  field-effect  obser- 
vations of  Brown  and  Montgomer}'"  with  a  larger  number  of  discrete 
levels,  but  this  would  call  for  a  "sharpening  up"  of  the  trapped  charge 
distribution  as  the  temperature  is  lowered,  and  this  appears  to  be  con- 
trary to  what  is  observed.*  It  is  always  possible  that  the  surface  is  patchy, 
in  w^hich  case  almost  any  variation  with  mean  surface  potential  could  be 
explained.  The  simplest  assumption,  however,  seems  to  be  that  N{v) 
is  a  rather  smoothly-varying  function.  All  we  need  assume  for  the 
moment  is  that  it  is  everywhere  finite,  continuous  and  differentiable. 
We  may  then  differentiate  equation  (10)  with  respect  to  Y  and  5  under 
the  integral  sign,  and  get  {d^s/dY)^  and  (5Ss/55)f,  the  cjuantities  for 
which  experimental  measurements  were  reported  in  the  previous  paper  :^ 


i-^    =    [- 
\dYji       J  4 


N{p)  ch 


ch\h{v  -f  Y)  -  \tn  X] 

N{v){h{\-'  +  \)m{v  -  Y)  -f  i  ^n  X 

+  In  x]  +  \{\~'  -  X))  civ 

4.ch\h{v  +Y)  ~\  (n  X] 


(11) 
(12) 


Notice  that  the  expression  in  brackets  in  the  numerator  of  (12)  gener- 
ally has  the  value  X~  or  —X,  except  near  the  point  v  =  Y  —  fn\  —  2fnx- 
This  is  indicative  of  the  fact  that,  whatever  the  exact  form  of  N(v),  the 
ratio  of  —  (32s/35)y/(3Ss/(9F)5  tends  to  these  limiting  values  (X^^  and 
—X)  for  sufficientlj^  large  negative  and  positive  Y  respectively. 

It  may  be  verified  from  (7),  (11)  and  (12)  that  {dXs/dY)^ ,  found  from 
the  field  effect  experiment,  depends  only  on  N(v) ;  (d'Zs  88)  y  ,  found  from 
the  surface  photo- voltage,  depends  on  N{v)  and  x;  while  s,  the  surface 
recombination  velocity,  depends  in  addition  on  the  geometric  mean 
cross-section  (anapY''.  Both  x  and  (a-„(7p)  '"^  might  themselves,  of  course, 
be  functions  of  p.  Thus  relations  (7),  (11)  and  (12)  are  integral  eciuations, 
from  which  the  three  unknown  functions  of  v  may  in  principle  be  de- 
duced from  the  experimental  results.  (Equation  11 ,  in  fact,  may  be  solved 
explicitly.  P.  A.  Wolff'^  has  shown,  how^ever,  that,  to  determine  N{v) 
unambiguously,  it  is  necessary  to  know  (52^/(9 F)j  for  all  values  of  Y 
in  the  range  ±  ^  .) 

The  foregoing  considerations  apply  to  "small-signal"  measurements. 


*  There  are  some  changes  with  temperature,  but  not  what  one  would  expect  if 
there  were  only  discrete  surface  states. 


1046      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


z 

>- 

w 


>- 
in 


3.0 


2.5 


2.0 


1.5 


1.0 


0.5 


-0.5 


-1.0 


-1.5 


>w, 

^ 

N 

\ 

N 

\ 

•<j 

s/\ 

1 

k 

^-. 

p 

< 

r^ 

•^. 

c 

N. 

X. 

• 

; 

-5 


-2 


-1  0 

Y-Ln\ 


Fig.  1  —  The  fit  between  Equations  (13)  and  (14)  and  the  experimental  data. 
The  circles  and  dots  give  the  experimental  data  for  the  n  and  jo-type  samples 
respectively  and  the  solid  straight  lines  represent  Equations  (13)  and  (14). 

But  it  is  also  possible,  once  A^(j'),  x  and  (cr^o-p)^'^  are  known,  to  calculate 
the  expected  behavior  of  the  surface  photo-voltage  and  surface  recombi- 
nation rate  at  high  light  intensities,  and  compare  the  answer  with  the 
experimental  findings.  We  hope  to  discuss  this  matter  in  a  later  paper. 


III.    ANALYSIS    OF    THE    EXPERIMENTAL    DATA    BY    USE    OF    THE    DELTA- 
FUNCTION   APPROXIMATION 

Let  US  first  consider  the  interpretation  of  our  field  effect  measure- 
ments by  means  of  (11).  We  start  by  finding  empirical  expressions  that 
describe  the  observed  dependence  of  (d'Zs/dY)  on  Y  (Fig.  6  of  the  pre- 
ceding paper^).  Except  at  values  of  (F  —(n  X)  close  to  the  extremes 
reached  one  may  fit  quite  well  by  a  hyperbolic  cosine  function.  Fig.  1 
shows  the  function  whose  hyperbolic  cosine  is  {d'2s/dY)/(d'Es/dY)min 
plotted  against  Y  —  tn  X.  From  this  figure  we  find: 

22.6  ohm-cm  n-type: 


^"  )    =  4.5c/i[0.36(y  -  (n  X)  -  0.8] 


(13) 


(for  (F  -  (n  X)  >  -4 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1017 

8.1  ohm-cm  p-type: 

=  9.7c/; [0.31  (F  -  (n  X)  -  0.5]  (14) 

for  2  >  (F  -  (n  X)  >  -4 

For  values  of  (F  —  (n  X)  less  than  —4,  it  appears  that  Ss  is  changing 
more  rapidly  with  F  than  is  indicated  by  (13)  and  (14).  We  shall  comment 
on  this  point  later.  Excluding  this  region,  we  note  that  in  both  cases  the 
variation  with  F  is  everywhere  slow  in  comparison  with  e^,  and  proceed 
on  the  assumption  that  N{v)  is  a  function  of  v  that  varies  everywhere 
slowly  in  comparison  with  c" .  Then  (11)  indicates  that  there  is  one  fairly 
sharp  maximum  in  the  integrand  in  the  range  ±  « ,  occurring  at  that 
value  of  V  which  coincides  with  the  Fermi  level: 

V  ^  -F  +  (n  X  (15) 

The  integral  in  (11)  could  be  evaluated  in  series  about  this  point 
(method  of  steepest  descents).  The  zero-order  approximation  is  got  by 
replacing 

i  sech'  \h{v  +  F)  -  \(n  X]         by         6(i^  +  F  -  Cn  X). 

Later  we  shall  proceed  to  an  exact  solution,  and  we  shall  find  that  this 
delta-function  approximation  is  not  too  bad.  From  (11)  we  now  find: 

-f  F  -  (ri  X)  dv  =  N{-Y  +  (n.  X)       (15) 

This  mathematical  procedure  will  be  seen  to  be  eciuivalent  to  identify- 
ing {d'Ls/dY)i  with  the  density  of  states  at  the  point  in  the  gap  which 
coincides  with  the  Fermi-level  at  the  surface.  Using  (13)  and  (14),  one 
gets: 

22.6  ohm-cm  n-type: 

N{v)  =  4.5  chiOMv  +  0.8)  (16) 

8.1  ohm-cm  p-type: 

N{v)  =  9.7  chiQMv  +  0.5)  (17) 

As  we  shall  see  in  the  next  section,  the  exact  solutions  differ  from  (16) 
and  (17)  only  in  the  coefficients  preceding  the  hyperbolic  cosines. 

Turning  to  the  surface  photo-voltage  measurements,  we  take  (12) 
and  again  replace 

I  sech'  [^{v  +  }')  -  \tn  XJ         by         h{v  +  Y  -  In  X) 


1048   THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  SEPTEMBER  1956 

Using  (15),  one  gets: 

~  (dXs/dY)B 

=  i(X-'  +  X)  th(-Y  +  fn\+  (n  x)  +  hO^~'  -  X) 


(18) 


This  procedure,  inaccurate  as  it  is,  has  the  advantage  that  no  particu- 
lar assumption  need  be  made  concerning  the  functional  dependence  of 
X  on  V,  it  being  understood  that  x  in  (18)  has  the  value  holding  for  v  = 

—  Y  -\-  (n  X.  In  particular,  if  }^o  is  that  ^•alue  of  Y  at  which  the  ratio 
-(a2s/a5)y/(a2,/a}')5  changes  sign, 

/"wxo  =  To  -  Cn  X  +  t}r\{\  -  X"')/(X  +  X~')]  (19) 

From  the  experimental  data,  one  linds,  for  the  /^-tj-pe  sample,  In  xo  '^ 
2.4  (at  V  =   —3.5);  for  the  p-type  sample,  (n  xn  ^'  1.0  (at  v  =  1.9). 

In  \-iew  of  the  approximations  made,  these  estimates  would  not  be 
expected  to  be  more  precise  than  ±  1  to  2  units.  Notice  that  both  \alues 
are  positive,  and  that  the  difference  between  them  is  small  in  compari- 
son with  the  difference  in  v.  This  suggests  that  we  start  afresh  with  the 
assumption  that  x  is  independent  of  v,  and  woi'k  out  the  surface  photo- 
voltage  integral  exactly.  This  is  done  in  the  next  section. 

IV.    EXACT  TREATMENT  FOR  THE  CASE  N{v)    =   A  ch  {qv  +   B) ,  AVITH  CON- 
STANT  CROSS-SECTIONS 

The  results  of  the  previous  section  suggest  the  procedure  of  assuming 
that  N{v)  is  of  the  functional  form  given  by  (16)  and  (17),  and  evaluat- 
ing the  integrals  (9),  (11)  and  (12)  exactly.  The  integral  for  {dliJdY), 
(11),  depends  only  on  the  form  of  N{v)  and  ma}^  be  eA'aluated  at  once. 
To  get  idfijdb),  (12),  one  must  know  how  x  depends  on  v.  On  the 
basis  of  the  work  of  the  previous  section,  we  shall  suppose  that  x  is  in- 
dependent of  V.  (Properly,  we  need  only  assume  that  x  varies  with  v 
more  slowly  than  e^  Since  the  function  th[\{v  —  Y)  -f  ^Cn  X  +  (n  x] 
has  one  of  the  values  ±1  everywhere  except  close  to  j'  =   Y  —  (n  X 

—  2Cn  X,  and  since  the  denominator  of  (12)  has  a  sharp  minimum  at 
V  =  —  Y  -\-  (n  X,  it  follows  that  the  region  in  which  (3Ss/d5)y  changes 
sign  will  be  governed  mainly  by  the  value  of  x  at  ^  =  —  (n  x)  To  get  s  [(9), 
using  (7)],  one  must  also  assume  something  about  the  geometric  mean  cross- 
section,  {an(T,^  ".  In  the  absence  of  any  information  on  this  score,  we 
shall  assume  that  (o-„a-p)'  "  also  is  independent  of  v,  and  see  how  the  com- 
puted variation  of  s  with  Y  compares  with  the  experimental  results. 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1049 

We  assume: 

N(v)  =  A  ch  (qv  +  B)  (20) 

and  substitute  in  (11),  (12)  and  (7).  In  view  of  the  sharp  maximum  in 
the  integrands  of  these  expressions,  it  is  permissible  to  set  the  limits 
which  should  correspond  to  the  edges  of  the  gap  or  of  the  state  distribu- 
tion equal  to  ±  <» .  The  integrals  are  conveniently  evaluated  by  the  con- 
tour method  (see  Appendix  1)  and  yield  the  following  results: 


(  -^  j    =  Attq  cosec  TQ  ch  [B  —  q{Y  —  /n  X)] 
/aS,\     ^   _ATrq  cosec  vq  ch  [B  -  q{Y  -  (n  X)]  X 


where 


'y  =  }'  -  (n  X  -  (n  X 
(S,  =  B  -  qtnx 


(21) 


(22) 


(23) 


{VrnVrp)"-'  (24) 

=  I  (X  -f  X~^)(o-„(Tp)^'^ni£  2x  A  sh  qy  ch  (B  cosec  irq  cosech  'y 


Comparing  (21)  with  (15),  we  see  that  the  delta-function  approxima- 
tion is  in  error  to  the  extent  that  it  replaces  irq  cosec  irq  by  1.  With  the 
value  of  q  found  experimentally,  this  is  not  too  bad;  we  can  now,  how- 
ever, by  fitting  the  right-hand  side  of  (21)  to  the  experimental  facts, 
(13)  and  (14),  obtain  exact  solutions  for  A''(j'): 

22.6  ohm-cm  n-type 

iY(j;)  =  3.6  chiQMu  +  0.8)        (for  u  <  4) 

8.1  ohm-cm  p-type  (25) 

N(v)  =  8.3  chiOMp  +  0.5)        (for  p  <  4) 

The  question  arises  as  to  whether  this  solution  for  the  distribution  is 
unique.  We  have  already  pointed  out  that  the  mathematical  methods 
fail  if  the  distribution  is  discontinuous.  It  seems  that  (25)  represents  the 
only  solution  that  is  slowl3^-^'arying,  in  the  sense  used  in  the  previous 
section;  its  correctness  could  presumably  be  checked  by  carrying  out 
experiments  at  different  temperatures.  For  v  >  4:,  the  abo\-e  expressions 


1050      THK   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

do  not  fit  the  observed  facts,  because,  for  F  —  ^n  X  <  —  4,  the  charge  in 
fast  states  is  found  to  change  more  rapidly  than  is  given  by  the  empirical 
expressions  in  (13)  and  (14).  The  behaviour  in  this  region  is  perhaps  in- 
dicative of  the  existence  of  a  discrete  trapping  level  just  beyond  the 
range  of  v  which  can  be  explored  by  our  techniques.  The  observations 
(see  Fig.  6  of  preceding  paper^)  can  be  described  by  postulating,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  continuous  distribution  of  states  given  above,  a  level  of  den- 
sity about  10  ^  cm"  ,  situated  at  j^  =  6,  or  a  higher  density  still  further 
from  the  center  of  the  gap.  Statz  et  al,^'  using  the  "channel"  techniques, 
which  are  valuable  for  exploring  the  more  remote  parts  of  the  gap,  have 
proposed  a  level  of  density  '^  10  cm~^,  situated  at  about  0.14  volts  be- 
low the  center  of  the  gap  (v  =  5.5) :  this  is  not  in  disagreement  with  the 
foregoing. 

In  order  to  compare  (22)  with  the  experimental  data  derived  from  the 
surface  photo-voltage,  it  is  necessary  to  choose  a  value  for  x-  Fig-  2  shows 
the  comparison  with  the  results  presented  in  the  preceding  paper.  On  the 
vertical  axis,  the  values  of  (dl^s/d8)/(d'2s/dY)  plotted  have  been  divided 
by  (X  +  X"  ),  in  order  to  show  the  n  and  p-type  results  on  the  same  scale. 
(Note  that  the  limiting  values  of  this  quantity  should  be  X/(X  -|-  X"^) 
and  —  X~V(^  +  ^~^)j  so  that  the  vertical  distance  between  the  limiting 
values  should  be  1,  independent  of  X).  The  theoretical  curves  have  been 
drawn  with  the  value  Inx  =  2.5,  in  order  to  give  best  fit  between  theory 
and  experiment  at  the  points  at  which  the  ordinate  changes  sign.  (It 
may  be  seen  from  the  form  of  (22)  that,  with  the  actual  value  of  the  other 
parameters,  the  main  effect  of  adopting  a  different  value  of  in  x  would 
be  to  shift  the  theoretical  curve  horizontally,  while  a  change  of  X  shifts 
it  vertically  without  in  either  case  greatly  modifying  its  shape).  The  fit 
between  theory  and  experiment  is  not  quite  as  good  as  could  be  expected, 
even  taking  into  account  the  rather  low  accuracy  of  the  measurements. 
The  variation  of  (6Ss/55)/(6Ss/6F)  with  Y  found  experimentally  seems 
to  be  rather  slower  than  the  theory  would  lead  one  to  expect.  The  main 
points  to  make  are :  (i)  the  difference  in  Y  between  the  zeros  for  the  two 
samples  (5.4  ±  1)  is  about  what  it  should  be  (4.8)  on  the  assumption 
that  in  X  is  the  same  for  both  samples  and  of  the  order  of  unity;  and  (ii) 
paying  attention  mainly  to  the  zeros,  the  estimate  (nx  —  2.5  is  likely  to 
be  good  to  ±1. 

Now  let  us  consider  the  surface  recombination  velocity.  Here  we  are 
on  somewhat  shakier  ground,  in  that,  in  deriving  (24),  we  have  had  to 
assume  not  only  that  x  is  independent  of  v,  but  (o-„crp)^'^  also.  First  we  note 
from  (24)  that  the  maximum  value  of  s  should  occur  at  F  —  (n  X  =  in  x- 
Comparing  with  the  experimental  results  given  in  the  preceding  paper, 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1051 


10 
W 
to 

10 


to 


1.0 


0.8 


0.6 


0.4 


0.2 


-0.2 


-0.4 


-0.6 


-0.8 


1.0 


/ 

^^ 

/ 

/ 

•/ 

1 

y 

V 

,__,s^ 

> 

./ 

^ 

— 

k 

/ 

/ 

Vi 

/ 

■ 

>^ 

y 

J 

— 

y 

-6 


-2  0  2 

Y-Ln\ 


Fig.  2 


Experiment  and  theory  for 


95 


)K^- 


X  +  X- 


Solid  lines  theory;  circles  and  dots,  with  smooth  curves  through  the  points,  repre- 
sent experimental  results  for  n  and  p-type  samples,  respectively. 

we  see  maxima  at  F  —  ^w  X  =  2.0  for  the  p-type  sample,  and  3.5  for  the 
n-type  sample.  Both  these  values  are  within  the  limits  to  (n  x  given  in 
the  previous  paragraph,  thus  confirming  the  estimate  made  there.  Fig. 
3  shows  a  comparison  between  the  experimental  results  and  (24).  The 
graph  has  been  fitted  horizontally,  by  setting  (n  x  =  2.5,  as  found  above ; 
vertically,  to  agree  with  the  mean  value  at  that  point.  The  agreement 
with  experiment  is  reasonable,  although  again,  just  as  in  Fig.  2,  the  ex- 
perimental variation  of  s  with  ( Y  —  in  X)  is  rather  slower  than  one  would 
expect. 

The  fact  that  the  experimental  values,  both  of  surface  photo-voltage 
and  of  surface  recombination  velocity,  vary  more  slowly  than  expected, 
is  susceptible  of  a  number  of  interpretations:  (i)  The  deduced  distribu- 
tion of  fast  states  might  be  wrong.  However,  the  most  likely  alternative 
distributions  —  isolated  levels,  or  a  completely  uniform  distribution  — 


1052      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

give  (in  at  least  some  ranges  of  F)  a  more  rapid  instead  of  a  smoother 
variation  of  these  quantities  so  long  as  the  surface  is  homogeneous,  (ii) 
The  estimates  of  the  changes  in  Y  might  be  too  large.  It  is  unlikely  that 
our  calibration  is  sufficiently  in  error,  and  other  workers  have  obtained 
results  comparable  to  ours.  The  only  possibility  would  be  that  the  mo- 
bility of  carriers  near  the  surface  is  larger  (instead  of  smaller,  as  found  by 
Schrieffer)  than  inside  • —  which  seems  cjuite  out  of  the  question,  (iii) 
The  ratio  of  capture  cross-sections  varies  with  v.  This,  however,  w^ould 
only  be  in  the  right  direction  if  one  were  to  assume  that  the  ratio  x  'in- 
creases with  the  height  of  the  level  in  the  gap  —  i.e.,  that  the  high  states 
behave  like  acceptors,  and  the  low  ones  like  donors.  While  not  quite 
impossible,  this  is  an  unlikely  result,  (iv)  The  surface  is  patchy.  It  is 
probable  that  a  range  of  variation  of  two  to  four  times  (kT/e)  in  surface 
potential  would  be  sufficient  to  account  for  the  observed  slow  variation 
of  surface  photo-voltage  and  recombination  \'elocity  with  mean  surface 
potential.  We  ha\'e  refrained  from  detailed  calculations  of  patch  effects, 
on  the  grounds  that,  without  detailed  knowledge  of  the  magnitude  and 
distribution  of  the  patches,  it  would  be  possible  to  construct  a  model 
that  could  indeed  fit  the  facts,  but  one  w^ould  have  little  confidence  in 
the  result.  The  possibility  of  patches  warns  us  to  view  with  caution  the 
exact  distribution  function  deduced  for  the  fast  states.  It  would  still 
be  conceivable,  for  example,  that  one  has  but  two  discrete  states,  as 
originally  proposed  by  Brattain  and  Bardeen,"  and  that  the  apparent 
existence  of  a  band  of  states  in  the  middle  of  the  gap  arises  from  the  fact 
that  there  are  always  some  parts  of  the  surface  at  which  the  Fermi  level 
is  close  to  one  or  other  of  these  states.  Fortunately  the  conclusions  as  to 
the  cross-sections  are  not  too  sensitive  to  the  exact  distribution  function 
assumed. 

Using  the  mean  of  the  two  coefficients  in  (25),  substituting  //,•  = 
2.5  X  10'^  cnr^  £  -  1.4  X  10"'' cm,  {vrnVrp)"'  =  1.0  X  10' cm/sec,  in 
(24),  and  using  the  experimental  result  (see  Fig.  3)  that  s,nax/(X  -f  X~\)  = 
1.2  X  10"  cm/sec,  one  obtains  ((Tp(T,y~  =  5  X  10~'  cm'.  Now  setting 
(ap/a„)  =  x"  '^  c'  ^^  150,  one  gets  for  the  separate  cross-sections: 

o-p  =  <)  X  10"''  cm" 
an  =    l  X  10"''  cm' 

There  values  appear  lo  he  emiiicntly  reasonable.  Burton  et  al,  "  who 
studied  re('()inl)ination  through  body  centres  associated  with  nickel  and 
copper  ill  germanium,  found  cr^  >  4  X  10  '"^  cm",  o-,,  =  8  X  10"'^  cm* 
for  nickel,  and  a„  =  1  X  10  '%„  =  1  X  10"''  for  copper.  The  fact  that 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1053 


200 


m 


100 

90 

80 

70 

~ 

60 

u 

LU 

■sn 

(/) 

5 

40 

o 

u 

30 

+ 

,< 

20 


10 


8 

7 
-6 


.V 

o 
• 

o 

o 

-> 

X 

1 

•   \ 

•  / 

/ 

> 

V 

<u 

/ 

\ 

• 

/ 

\, 

)        • 

i 

/ 

> 

^ 

0 

• 

/ 

• 

0 

• 

/ 

0 

• 

/ 

• 

• 

/ 

/ 

f 

/ 

/ 

-5 


-4 


-3 


-2 


-1  0 

Y-lnX, 


Fig.  3  —  Experiment  and  theory  for  surface  recombination.  Solid  curve  theory 
circles  and  dots  for  n  and  p-type  samples,  respectively. 

our  estimates  for  ap  and  o-„  appear  to  be  of  the  expected  order  of  magni- 
iitudes  lends  strong  support  to  the  view  that  identifies  the  traps  appear- 
ing in  the  field-effect  and  surface  photo-voltage  experiments  with  those 
responsible  for  surface  recombination. 

The  result  that  (o-p/cr„)  =  150  is  good  evidence  that  the  fast  states  are 
acceptor-like.  This  statement  must  be  restricted  to  the  range  \  v  \  <  4; 
the  states  that  are  outside  this  range  might  be  of  either  type.  Also  one 
might  allow  a  rather  small  fraction  of  the  states  near  the  middle  to  be 
donor- type,  without  serious  trouble;  but  the  experimental  results  compel 
one  to  believe  that  most  of  the  fast  states  within  0.1  volts  or  so  of  the 
centre  of  the  gap  are  acceptor-like. 


V.   TRAPPING    KINETICS 


The  foregoing  considerations  have  concerned  the  steady-state  solution 
to  the  siu'face  trapping  problem.  If  the  experimental  constraints  are 
changed  sufficiently  rapidly,  however,  there  may  be  effects  arising  from 
the  finite  time  required  for  the  charge  in  surface  states  to  adapt  itself 


1054      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

to  the  new  conditions.'  This  section  will  concern  itself  with  the  trapping 
time  constants  (which  are  not  directly  related  to  the  rate  of  recombina- 
tion of  minority  carriers). 

One  case  of  trapping  kinetics  has  been  discussed  by  Haynes  and  Horn- 
beck.^  A  general  treatment  of  surface  trapping  kinetics  is  necessarily  quite 
involved,  and  will  be  taken  up  in  a  future  paper.  Here  we  shall  restrict 
ourselves  to  giving  an  elementary  argument  relating  to  the  high-fre- 
quency field  effect  experiment  of  Montgomery.  To  simplify  the  discus- 
sion, we  assume  that  the  surface  in  question  is  of  the  "super"  type;  i.e., 
the  surface  excess  of  the  bulk  majority  carrier  is  large  and  positive.  At 
time  i  =  0,  a  large  field  is  suddenly  applied  normal  to  the  surface;  the 
induced  charge  appears  initially  as  a  change  in  the  surface  excess  of  the 
bulk  majority  carrier;  as  time  elapses,  charge  transfer  between  the  space- 
charge  region  and  the  fast  states  takes  place,  until  equilibrium  with  the 
fast  states  has  been  re-established.  What  time  constant  characterizes 
this  process? 

Take  electrons  as  the  majority  carrier.  Then  the  flow  of  electrons  into 
the  fast  states  must  equal  the  rate  of  decrease  of  the  surface  excess  of 
electrons.  For  a  single  level  one  may  write: 

Un    =    NtVTn(rn[(l    "   ft)ns    -   Ml] 

(26) 

=  -r„ 

For  a  continuous  distribution  of  levels,  one  can  say  that  only  those 
levels  within  a  few  times  (kT/e)  of  the  Fermi  level  at  the  surface  will  be 
effective,  so  that  one  may  regard  the  distribution  as  being  equivalent  to 
a  single  state  with  rii  =  rii  exp  (Y  —  In  X),  which  will  be  about  half  full. 
We  assume  further  that  the  density  of  fast  states  is  sufficient  for  the 
changes  in  r„  to  be  large  in  comparison  with  those  in  ft ,  as  is  reasonable, 
having  regard  to  the  relative  magnitudes  of  the  measured  values  of 
(dI,s/dY)i  found  in  the  present  research,  and  of  (dTp/dY)5  and  {dT„/dY)s . 
Thus/<  may  be  treated  as  a  constant  in  equation  (26).  Further,  we  may 
set  Hs  =  4r„  /nj£  ,  as  may  be  proved  from  considerations  on  the  space- 
charge  region.'  Solving  (26)  with  these  conditions,  one  finds,  for  the 
transient  change  in  r„  between  the  initial  and  the  quasi-equilibrium 
state : 


Ar„  cc  M  -  th-]  (27) 

where 

r  =  \e-''&/[NtVTn(rnV2  Vftil  -  ft)] 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES 


1055 


I 

I 


To  clarify  the  order  of  magnitude  of  time  constant  invoh'ed,  let  us 
substitute  £  '^  10"  cm,  Nt  ~  10^^  cm~^,  tv,.  ~  10^  cm/sec,  cr„  ~  10"^^ 
cm  ,/t  '^  0.5,  Ae~  '~  1.  This  gives  r  -^  10~'  sec,  which  suggests  that  one 
would  be  unlikely  to  run  into  trapping  time  effects  in  the  field-effect  ex- 
periment at  frequencies  less  than  10  Mcyc/sec.  This  conclusion  is  con- 
sonant with  the  findings  of  Montgomery. 

Appendix  1 
evaluation  of  the  integrals  in  section  4 

The  integrals  occurring  in  Section  4,  giving  the  experimentally  acces- 
sible quantities  (d2s/dY),  (dXs/d8)  and  s  in  terms  of  the  surface  trap 
distribution  and  cross-sections,  are  conveniently  evaluated  by  contour 
integration.  In  view  of  the  general  applicability  of  this  method  in  deal- 
ing with  integrals  of  the  sort  that  arise  from  such  a  distribution  of  traps, 
we  include  here  a  short  note  on  the  precedure  used.  The  integrals  needed 
are : 

.+00 


/T-ou 
ch{cx  +  g)  sech"  x  dx 
00 

/+00 
th{x  -\-  b)  ch(cx  -{•  g)  sech^  x  dx 
00 

-L 


+00 


h 


chicx  -\-  g) 


con- 


e/la; -\-  chk 

To  evaluate  /i ,  we  evaluate   /  ch(cz  +  g)  sech^  z  dz  around  the 

tour  shown  in  Fig.  4.  The  contributions  from  the  parts  z  =  ±R  vanish 
in  the  limit  R  -^  oo ,  so  that  the  integral  has  the  value : 

/+00  /.+00 

ch(cx  -\r  g)  sech'^  x  dx  —  i  sin  ctt   / 
00  •'—00 

sh(cx  +  g)  sech'^  x  dx 


Fig.  4  —  Evaluation  of  7i  . 


1056      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHXICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

The  integrand  has  one  pole  Avithin  the  contour,  at  x  =  ^iw,  at  which  the 
residue  is  —  c(cos  ^cr  sh  g  -\-  i  sin  ^cir  ch  g).  Multiplying  by  2x1  and 
equating  the  real  part  to  that  in  the  above  expression,  one  obtains: 

/i  =  xc  cosec  \cir  ch  y 

The  same  contour  is  used  in  evaluating  lo  ;  there  are  now  poles  at  z  = 
^/tt  and  at  z  =  \iir  —  b,  and  one  obtains: 

1-2  =  TTC  coth  b  ch  g  cosec  ^ctt 

—  27r  cosec  ^CTT  cosech"  b  sh  ^bc  ch{}/'2bc  —  g) 

To  evaluate  h  ,  one  integrates  /  [ch{cz  +  g)/(chz  +  chh-)]  dz  around 

the  contour  shown  in  Fig.  5.  There  are  poles  at  iw  ±  k.  Proceeding  as 
before,  one  finds: 

I3  =  2ir  sli  ck  ch  g  cosec  ire  cosech  k 


Appendix  2 

limitation   of   surface   recombination   arising   from  the   space- 
charge  barrier 

The  ([uestion  of  the  resistance  to  How  of  carriers  to  the  surface  arising 
from  the  change  in  potential  across  the  space-charge  layer  has  been 
discussed  by  Brattain  and  Bardeen.  Here  we  shall  recalculate  this  effect 
by  a  better  method,  which  again  shows  that,  \\ithin  the  range  of  surface 
potential  studied,  the  effect  of  this  resistance  on  the  surface  recombina- 
tion velocity  is  for  etched  surfaces  ciuite  negligible. 

Let  Ip  and  /„  be  the  hole  and  electron  (particle)  currents  towards  the 
surface,  and  let  x  be  the  distance  in  a  direction  perpendicular  to  the  sur- 
face, measuring  .r  positive  outwards.  Then  the  gradient  of  the  fiuasi- 
Fermi  levels  (pp  and  <pn  at  any  point  is  given  by: 


n  n       7i         x"'/ 


(1) 


-R  +R 

Fig.  5  —  Evaluation  of  I3  . 


DISTRIBUTION  AND  CROSS-SECTIONS  OF  GERMANIUM  SURFACES       1057 

Then  the  total  additional  change  in  (pp  and  <pn  across  the  space-charge 
t-egion,  arising  from  the  departure  in  uniformity  in  the  carrier  densities 
t)  and  n,  is : 


A,,  =   -£.  /  (i  -  1)  ,,. 

Mn  J    \n        no/ 


(2) 


Suppose  now  that  the  true  surface  recombination  rate  is  infinite,  so 
that  the  ciuasi-Fermi  levels  must  coincide  at  the  surface,  and: 

(Pp    -f    A<Pp    =    <pn    -+-    A(pn  (3) 

These  equations,  together  with  the  known  space-charge  equations, 
icomplete  the  problem.  Notice  first,  from  (2),  that  A<pp  will  be  large  only 
if  there  is  a  region  in  which  p  is  small  (F  ^  1),  while  A^„  is  large  onl}^ 
when,  in  some  region,  n  is  small  (F  <3C  —  1).  Introducing  the  cjuantity  5, 
approximating  for  8  small,  equating  Ip  and  /„  and  setting  the  result  eciual 
to  sriid,  one  finds: 


F  «  - 1 


{Dn/£)(\"'  +  X"'^')e^'' 


F  »  1  (4) 

The  coefficients  {Dn/S)  and  (Dp/£)  are  of  the  order  of  4  X  10'  cm/sec. 
The  most  extreme  case  encountered  in  our  work  is  that  occurring  at  the 
ozone  extreme  for  the  n-type  sample  (X  =  0.34,  F  =  —6),  for  which  the 
surface  recombination  velocity,  if  limited  by  space-charge  resistance 
alone,  would  be  about  one-quarter  of  this  (10''  cm/sec).  The  fact  that 
the  observed  surface  recombination  velocity  is  lower  than  that  by  more 
than  two  orders  of  magnitude  shows  that  space-charge  resistance  is  not 
a  limiting  factor  in  the  present  experiments.  Equations  4  might  Avell 
hold  on  a  sand-blasted  surface,  however,  where  the  trap  density  is  much 
higher. 


'!-)* 


References 

1.  W.  L.  Brown,  Surface  Potential  and  Surface  Charge  Distribution  from  Semi- 

conductor Field  Effect  Measurements,  Phys.  Rev.  98,  p.  1565,  June  1,  1955. 

2.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  J.  Bardeen,  Surface  Properties  of  Germanium,  B.S.T.J., 

32,  pp.  1-41,  Jan.,  1953. 

3.  W.  H.  Brattain  and  C.  G.  B.  Garrett,  page  1019  of  this  issue. 


1058      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

4.  D.  T.  Stevenson  and  R.  J.  Keyes,  Measurements  of  Surface  Recombination 

Velocity  at  Germanium  Surfaces,  Physica,  20,  pp.  1041-1046,  Nov.  1954. 

5.  R.  N.  Hall,  Electron-Hole  Recombination  in  Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  87,  p. 

387,  July  15,  1952. 

6.  W.  Shockley  and  W.  T.  Read,  Jr.,  Statistics  of  the  Recombination  of  Holes 

and  Electrons,  Phys.  Rev.,  87,  pp.  835-842,  Sept.  1,  1952. 

7.  T.  M.  Buck  and  F.  S.  McKim,  Depth  of  Surface  Damage  Due  to  Abrasion  on 

Germanium,  J.  Elec.  Chem.  Soc,  in  press. 

8.  H.  H.  Madden  and  H.  E.  Farnsworth,  Effects  of  Ion  Bombardment  Cleaning 

and  of  O.xygen  Adsorption  on  Life  Time  in  Germanium,  Bull.  Am.  Phys. 
Soc,  II,  1,  p.  53,  Jan.,  1956. 

9.  J.  A.  Hornbeck  and  J.  R.  Haynes,  Trapping  of  Minority  Carriers  in  Silicon. 

I.  P-Type  Silicon.  II.  N-Type  Silicon,  Phys.  Rev.,  97,  pp.  311-321,  Jan.  15, 
1955,  and  100,  pp.  606-615,  Oct.  15,  1955. 

10.  Ig.  Tamm,  Uber  eine  mogliche  Art  der  Elektronenbindung  an  Kristallober 

flachen,  Phy.  Zeits.  Sowj.,  1,  pp.  733-746,  June,  1932. 

11.  H.  C.  Montgomery  and  W.  L.  Brown,  Field-Induced  Conductivity  Changes  in 

Germanium,  Phys.  Rev.,  103,  Aug.  15, 1956. 

12.  J.  A.  Burton,  G.  W.  Hull,  F.  J.  Morin  and  J.  C.  Severiens,  Effects  of  Nickel  and 

Copper  Impurities  on  the  Recombination  of  Holes  and  Electrons  in  Ger- 
manium, J.  Phys.  Chem.,  57,  pp.  853-859,  Nov.  1953. 

13.  H.  Statz,  G.  A.  deMars,  L.  Davis,  Jr.,  and  H.  Adams,  Jr.,  Surface  States  on 

Silicon  and  Germanium  Surfaces,  Phys.  Rev.,  101,  pp.  1272-1281,  Feb.  15, 
1956. 

14.  C.  G.  B.  Garrett,  The  Present  Status  of  Fundamental  Studies  of  Semicon- 

ductor Surfaces  in  Relation  to  Semiconductor  Devices,  Pi'oc.  West  Coast 
Electronics  Components  Conf.  Los  Angeles,  pp.  49-51,  June,  1955. 

15.  H.  C.  Montgomery  and  B.  A.  McLeod,  Field  Effect  in  Germanium  at  High 

Frequencies,  Bull.  Am.  Phys   Soc,  II,  1,  p.  53,  Jan.,  1956. 

16.  C.  G.  B.  Garrett  and  W.  H.  Brattain,  Physical  Theory  of  Semiconductor  Sur- 

faces, Phys.  Rev.,  99,  pp.  376-387,  July  15,  1955. 

17.  P.  A.  Wolff,  Private  communication. 


i 


Transistorized  Binary  Pulse  Regenerator 

By  L.  R.  WRATHALL 

(Manuscript  received  March  14,  1956) 

A  stjnple  transistorized  device  has  been  constructed  for  amplifying  and 
regenerating  binary  code  signals  as  they  are  transmitted  over  substantial 
lengths  of  transmission  line.  By  the  use  of  simple  circuitry,  means  are  pro- 
vided whereby  the  distortion  in  the  output  of  one  repeater  due  to  low  fre- 
quency cutoff  is  compensated  in  the  next  repeater.  Furthermore,  the  repeater 
is  effectively  and  simply  timed  from  its  own  regenerated  output.  A  brief 
discussion  of  the  theory  of  the  circuit  is  presented  along  with  measured  re- 
sults and  oscillograms  showing  its  performance.  The  effects  of  extraneous 
interference  on  the  production  of  errors  in  such  a  repeater  are  reported. 
These  results  are  in  substayiiial  agreement  with  theory. 

1.   INTRODUCTION 

Long  distance  communication  using  digital  transmission  is  not  new 
but  was  used  by  man  in  his  earliest  communication  system.  In  fact,  his 
first  successful  electrical  system,  the  telegraph,  made  use  of  binary 
pulse  codes.  It  was  not  until  the  invention  of  the  telephone  that  the 
emphasis  was  shifted  from  the  digital  to  carrier  and  voice  systems. 
During  recent  years  the  development  of  new  electronic  devices  and 
techniques  have  brought  digital  transmission  into  the  picture  again, 
and  it  now  seems  possible  to  use  it  not  only  for  telephony  but  for  tele- 
vision as  well.  Future  systems  will  probably  make  use  of  the  binary 
code,  this  choice  being  dictated  by  circuit  simplicity  and  performance. 

The  fundamental  requirement  for  perfect  binary  transmission  is  to 
be  able  to  detect  the  presence  or  absence  of  a  pulse  in  each  of  a  regular 
set  of  discrete  time  intervals.  From  this  requirement  the  principal  ad- 
vantages of  such  a  system  may  be  tabulated.  First,  a  pulse  can  be 
recognized  in  the  presence  of  large  amounts  of  interference.  Second, 
when  a  pulse  is  recognized  it  can  be  faithfully  regenerated,  suppressing 
the  effect  of  the  interfering  noise  to  any  desired  degree.  Third,  simple 
high-efficiency  non-linear  devices  such  as  multivibrators  or  blocking 
oscillators  can  be  used  to  regenerate  the  pulses.  The  great  disadvantage, 

1059 


1060      THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195() 

common  to  all  pulse  systems  is  the  large  bandwidth  required  for  trans 
mission. 

On  wire  linos  this  large  transmission  band  will  create  a  number  of 
problems.  The  phase-loss  ^'ariations,  crosstalk  and  temperature  effects 
will  be  greatly  increased  over  the  transmission  band  as  compared  to  that 
of  the  more  conventional  systems.  It  can  be  shown  however  that  if  the 
repeater  spans  are  made  sufficiently  short  these  problems  will  largely 
disappear.  Only  rough  equalization  will  be  needed,  crosstalk  and  tem- 
perature effects  become  negligible.  Furthermore  the  repeater  power 
requirements  will  be  small  and  the  circuitry  comparatively  simple, 
since  only  partial  regeneration  will  be  required.  The  problem  remains 
to  build  a  regenerative  repeater  so  simple  that  it  will  be  economically 
sound  to  use  on  short  spans  of  line.  The  development  of  the  transistor 
with  its  small  size  and  low  power  requirements  has  made  such  a  repeater 
feasible.  | 

1.1  Pulse  Distortion  Caused  by  Low  Frequency  Cutoff 

Since  the  frequency  spectrum  of  a  binary  pulse  train  will  extend  down 
to  and  include  dc,  the  ideal  repeater  should  be  able  to  handle  the  complete 
frequency  band  to  avoid  signal  distortion.  This  would  preclude  the  use 
of  coupling  transformers  and  condensers  which  attenuate  the  low  fre- 
quencies and  remove  the  dc.  Practical  considerations  however  dictate 
the  use  of  these  elements  which  means  that  the  repeater  will  have  a 
low  frequency  cutoff.  The  distortion  of  a  binary  pulse  train  produced  by 
low  frequency  cutoff  presents  one  of  the  most  vexing  problems  the 
designer  of  a  regenerative  repeater  must  cope  with.  It  produces  what  is 
probably  the  most  potent  source  of  intersymbol  interference  found  in  an 
average  binary  pulse  communication  system.  This  interference  consists 
of  a  transient  response  whose  effect  may  be  appreciable  far  beyond  the 
end  of  the  pulse  itself. 

When  a  train  of  ideal  fiat  top  pulses  with  infinitely  steep  sides  is  applied 
to  a  load  through  a  condenser  or  a  transformer,  the  transient  response 
persisting  beyond  the  end  of  the  pulse  is  an  exponential  and  may  be 
expressed  as 

T  =  kPoe~''  (1) 

The  time  t,  is  measured  from  the  end  of  the  pulse  and  the  damping  co- 
efficient 6  is  a  function  of  the  low  frequency  cutoff.*  Po  is  the  amplitude 

*  The  value  of  b  may  be  approximated  by 

b   =   27r/o 

\vhere/o  is  the  frequent-y  in  cycles/sec  at  which  the  low  fre(iuency  loss  characteris- 
tic of  the  transformer  is  6  db  above  that  of  the  pass  band. 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY    PULSE   REGENERATOR 


1061 


I  of  the  pulse  and  k  is  given  as 


k  =  1 


-htr. 


where  fp  is  the  pulse  duration.  The  sum  of  the  transients  of  a  sequence 
of  pulses  will  shift  the  zero  potential  from  the  base  of  the  pulse  toward 
its  average  value  as  shown  on  Fig.  1(b).  This  phenomenon  has  been  re- 


(aj 


(b) 


(cj 


TRIGGER 
THRESHOLD 


TRIGGER 
THRESHOLD 


(d) 


(e) 

(d-b) 


(f) 


A 


zx/\zx./x/\ 


A 


r 


L 


r 


L 


L  LL 


r  r  r 


L 


r  r  r 


L 


TRIGGER 
THRESHOLD         i 


(9) 

(d-b  +  f) 


7 


x^ 


& 


r\ 


\J 


^ 


ta~P""a 


M 


n 


n 


a 


n 


oi 


^ 


^ 


r\ 


r> 


^^\ 


TIME 


Fig.  1  —  (a),  a  perfectly  regenerated  pulse  train;  (b)  showing  the  effect  of  low- 
frequency  cutoff;  (c),  showing  (a)  after  passing  over  equalized  line;  (d),  showing 
(b)  after  passing  over  equalized  line;  (e),  effect  of  (d)  minus  (b);  (f),  inverted 
pedestal  timing  wave;  (g),  composite  wave  at  input  to  repeater,  namely,  (d)  minus 
(b)plus  (f). 


1062      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

ferred  to  as  "zero  wander."  In  a  regenerative  repeater  the  trigger  poten- 
tial is  tied  to  the  zero  level  by  a  constant  bias.  Zero  wander  then  will 
produce  a  changing  bias  which  reduces  the  signal  to  noise  margins  of 
the  repeater,  or  in  some  cases  even  prevents  regeneration.  Suppose,  for 
example,  a  transmission  line  is  equalized  so  the  ideal  pulse  train  shown 
on  Fig.  1(a)  will  appear  as  Fig.  1(c)  after  being  transmitted  over  the 
line.  The  individual  pulses  have  widened  until  the  envelope  of  a  sequence 
of  consecutive  pulses  shows  as  a  ripple  with  a  much  smaller  amplitude 
than  the  individual  pulse.  If  the  pulse  train  distorted  by  low  frequency 
cutoff  shown  on  Fig.  1(b)  is  transmitted  over  this  line  its  output  will 
appear  similar  to  that  shown  on  Fig.  1(d).  The  portion  of  the  signal  where 
the  peak  amplitude  Hes  below  the  trigger  threshold  will  not  be  regener- 
ated. 

1.2  Compensatio7i  for  Low-Frequency  Distortion 

In  the  past  many  circuits  have  been  devised  to  prevent  zero  wander, 
but  none  have  been  completely  satisfactory.  The  repeater  described  in 
this  paper  effectively  eliminates  zero  wander  in  a  string  of  consecutive 
repeaters  by  means  of  a  new  and  simple  method.  This  may  be  better  un- 
derstood by  referring  to  Fig.  2.  Here  are  represented  two  successive  re- 
peaters of  a  transmission  system.  These  repeaters  have  what  appears  as 
a  conventional  negative  feedback  loop  consisting  of  a  pair  of  resistors,  R. 
The  function  performed  by  this  feedback  loop  bears  little  if  any  resem- 
blance to  the  negative  feedback  of  linear  amplifiers  and  is  referred  to  as 
"Quantized  feedback"  in  this  paper.* 

Suppose  an  isolated  pulse  of  amplitude  P,„  is  regenerated  in  repeater 
M  and  is  applied  to  the  line  through  its  output  transformer.  The  low 
freciuency  cutoff"  of  this  transformer  will  produce  a  transient  response  to 
the  regenerated  pulse  as  given  in  (1).  A  spectrum  analysis  of  the  transient 
tail  shows  that  most  of  its  energy  occurs  in  the  lower  portion  of  the  pass 
band  of  the  equalized  line.  Consequently,  it  will  be  transmitted  over  the 
line  to  the  next  repeater  with  little  if  any  frequency  or  phase  distortion, 
but  will  be  attenuated  by  a  factor  a.  This  transient  at  the  input  of  the 
following  repeater  may  be  expressed  as 

Tm  -  akMPMe~''  (2) 

where  t  is  again  measured  from  the  end  of  the  pulse.  Suppose  the  re- 
generation of  the  pulse  at  the  output  of  repeater  N  is  delayed  by  time  ti 

*  A  paper  by  Rajko  Tomovich  entitled  "Quantized  Feedback"  was  published 
in  the  I.R.E.  Transactions  on  Circuit  Theory.  There  are  some  fundamental  dilTer- 
ences  in  the  meaning  of  the  term,  quantized  feedback,  as  used  in  these  papers. 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY    PULSE   REGENERATOR 


LINE 


INPUT 


K 


Z>^ 


LINE 
EQUALIZER 


REGENERATIVE 

REPEATER 

M 


R 

AAAr 


A^A^■ 

R 


LINE 


Da 


R 

AAA- 


R 


REGENERATIVE 

REPEATER 

N 


SIGNAL 
OUT  , 


>c 


1063 


— I  LINE 


Fig.  2  —  Block  diagram  of  a  section  of  equalized  line  and  its  terminating 
regenerative  repeaters. 

compared  to  the  pulse  at  the  input  of  the  repeater.  The  transient  re- 
sponse of  the  regenerated  pulse  after  passing  through  its  output  trans- 
former f  will  be 

Tiv  =  fcivPive"'^'-'^^  (3) 


7        T^        '''l     ~~^^ 

KN^Ne    e 


(4) 


If  the  transient  (4)  is  attenuated  by  factor  3  and  added  in  opposite  phase 
to  Tm  through  the  feedback  loop  at  the  input  of  the  repeater,  their  sum  is 


T,r 


BT.y  =  ak-MPMc'''  -  8kNPNe"'e~'" 


-bl. 


bt\ 


=  e-'Xak,,PM  -  Bk^Pj.e"'') 
This  can  be  made  equal  to  zero  if 

akufPyi  =  Bk^PiijC 


(5) 
(0) 

(7) 


which  is  accomplished  by  adjusting  the  value  of  d  which  represents  the 
feedback  attenuation  introduced  by  resistances  R.  If  the  regenerated 

t  It  is  assumed  that  the  electrical  characteristics  of  the  output  transformers 
of  all  the  repeaters  are  identical.  In  this  case  the  damping  coefficients  will  be 
identical  for  all  the  regenerated  outputs. 


1064      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

output  pulses  of  .1/  and  N  are  identical,  then  Pm  =  Fj^  and  Icm  =  Id^ 
and  eq.  (6)  becomes 

Tm  -  QTs  =  e-^'huPMioc  -  8e"')  (8) 

This  expression  can  be  made  equal  to  zero  if 

8  =  ae"^''  (9) 

By  this  means  zero  wander  produced  in  one  repeater  can  be  eliminated 
at  the  input  of  the  next  repeater.  The  low  frecjuency  distortion  of  one 
repeater  corrects  for  the  corresponding  distortion  produced  in  the  pre- 
vious repeater. 

If  the  electrical  characteristics  of  uU  the  repeater  output  transformers 
are  identical  it  is  possible  to  completely  remove  the  effects  of  the  tran- 
sient tails  due  to  low  frequency  cutoff.*  It  is  important  however  that  t\ 
should  not  be  so  large  that  the  feedback  pulse  occupies  the  next  timing 
interval.  W.  R.  Bennett  has  shown  that  a  similar  cancellation  of  tran- 
sients can  be  accomplished  for  more  complicated  types  of  low  frequency 
cutoff  characteristics.  In  this  case  the  transient  tails  ^^  ill  be  the  sum  of  a 
number  of  exponentials  having  different  amplitudes  and  damping  co- 
efficients. Here  the  ciuantized  feedback  must  be  provided  by  multiple 
loops,  of  greater  complexity. 

It  may  be  disturbing  at  first  to  observe  the  resultant  sum  of  the  incom- 
ing signal  and  feedback  as  shown  on  Fig.  1(e).  It  should  be  noted  how- 
ever that  the  signal  is  not  changed  in  any  way  until  the  repeater  has 
triggered  the  regenerated  pulse,  and  at  the  next  time  slot  the  tails  have 
been  cancelled,  so  that  when  the  next  pulse  arrives  it  too  will  begin  at 
the  zero  axis.  Tails  may  also  be  produced  by  high  fre(|uency  phase-loss 
characteristics.  These  however,  may  be  removed  by  proper  equalization. 

1.3  Timing  In  a  Regenerative  Repeater 

The  binary  regenerative  repeater  must  not  only  regenerate  the  shape 
and  amplitude  of  each  individual  pulse  but  it  must  also  keep  them  in 
proper  time  seciuence  with  other  signal  pulses.  To  accomplish  this  a  suit- 
able timing  wave  must  be  provided.  This  timing  wave  may  be  trans- 
mitted over  separate  pairs  of  wires  or  it  may  be  derived  from  the  signal. 
In  the  past  it  has  been  connnon  to  obtain  a  sine  wave  of  the  repetition 

*  It  can  be  shown  that,  with  reasonable  differences  in  damping  coefficients, 
quantized  f(!edback  will  fjreatly  reduce  interyyml)()l  interference  even  when  con- 
sidei'ing  a  single  pulse.  If  the  coiil  ril)utions  from  all  the  transients  of  an  infinite 
train  of  random  pulses  are  summed,  the  resvUt;int  interference  is  further  reduced 
and  can  be  considered  negligible. 


TRANSISTOR    BINARY    PULSE    REGENERATOR  1065 

I  frequency  by  exciting  a  high  Q  filter  circuit  from  the  received  pulse  train. 
[Short  timing  pips  generated  from  this  wave  are  used  to  time  the  regen- 
erated output  pulses  precisely.  This  procedure  is  far  too  involved  to  be 
used  in  a  simple  repeater.  If  less  precision  in  timing  is  acceptable  it  may 
be  accomplished  with  a  minimum  of  circuitry  by  use  of  a  sinusoidal  wave 
derived  from  the  repeater  output.  This  is  referred  to  in  this  paper  as 
"self  timing." 

Self  timing  prohibits  the  use  of  short  timing  pips  derived  from  the 
i-egenerator  output.  In  this  case  most  of  the  timing  control  would  be 
exercised  by  the  filter  circuit  and  little,  if  any,  by  the  input  signal.  The 
direct  use  of  the  sinusoidal  output  of  this  filter  provides  suflficient  control 
by  the  input  signal  with  only  a  small  penalty  due  to  less  precise  timing.* 
Self  timing  also  sets  certain  requirements  on  the  regenerator.  If  the  tim- 
ing wave  is  derived  from  an  independent  source  it  can  be  added  to  the 
signal  in  such  a  way  as  to  act  as  a  pedestal,  lifting  the  signal  above  the 
tiigger  level.  In  such  a  circuit  neither  the  signal  nor  the  timing  wave 
alone  can  trigger  the  regenerator.  If  the  timing  wave  is  derived  from  the 
output  it  is  obvious  that  the  signal  alone  must  be  able  to  trigger  the 
regenerator,  since  the  generation  of  a  timing  wave  depends  upon  the  sig- 
nal triggering  the  regenerator.  A  timing  wave  derived  by  filtering  the 
output  of  a  random  pattern  of  binary  pulses  will  also  have  a  varying 
amplitude  which  could  cause  variations  in  repeater  noise  margins.  It  is 
apparent  then  that  self  timing  output  cannot  be  used  as  a  pedestal  in  a 
regenerator.  All  these  objections  can  be  overcome  by  the  use  of  "inverted 
pedestal"  timing. 

Inverted  pedestal  timing  is  produced  by  tying  the  peaks  of  the  timing 
wave  having  the  same  polarity  as  the  signal  pulses  to  a  fixed  level  by 
means  of  a  diode.  This  is  illustrated  on  Fig.  1(f).  The  timing  wave  is  added 
to  the  signal  at  the  input  so  the  sum  of  the  signal,  feedback  and  timing 
looks  somewhat  like  the  wave  on  Fig.  1(g).  The  effect  of  the  inverted 
pedestal  timing  is  to  inhibit  triggering  except  in  the  time  interval  near 
the  peaks  of  the  timing  wave.  This  permits  the  signal  to  trigger  the  re- 
generator without  a  timing  wave,  yet  allows  timing  control  to  be  exer- 
cised as  the  amplitude  of  the  timing  wave  builds  up.  With  sinusoidal 
timing,  noise  often  causes  the  regenerator  to  trigger  either  early  or  late, 
introducing  a  phase  shift  in  the  regenerated  ouput  which  will  be  reflected 
in  the  timing  wave.  Since  the  timing  wave  is  derived  from  the  code  pat- 
tern by  a  relatively  high  Q  tuned  circuit,  the  phase  distortion  of  the  tim- 
ing wave  from  a  shift  of  a  single  pulse  will  be  small.  With  a  random  dis- 

*  E.  D.  Sunde,  Self-timing  Regenerative  Repeaters  (paper  being  prepared  for 
publication). 


106G      THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

tribiition  of  noise  the  resultant  phase  shift  of  the  timing  wave  will  be 
negligible.  If  the  interference  has  low  frequency  components,  the  phase 
shift  of  the  timing  wave  may  be  appreciable  but  these  are  slow  and  con- 
sequently will  not  seriously  effect  the  performance  of  the  regenerator. 

2.0      DESCRIPTION   OF   REPEATER   CIRCUIT 

The  circuit  diagram  shown  on  Fig.  3  will  aid  in  understanding  the  op- 
eration of  the  repeater.  The  incoming  signal  after  being  transmitted  over 
the  equalized  line  is  applied  through  the  input  transformer  Ti  to  the 
emitter  of  transistor  (1).  The  function  of  this  transistor  is  to  provide  gain 
to  the  incoming  signal.  This  amplified  signal  is  applied  to  the  emitter 
of  transistor  (2)  through  the  blocking  condenser  C2  .  The  second  transis- 
tor functions  in  a  single  shot  blocking  oscillator  circuit  being  biased  in  the 
"off"  condition  through  the  resistance  i?2 .  When  the  positive  signal  ex- 
ceeds the  trigger  threshold,  a  pulse  is  regenerated  by  the  blocking  oscil- 
lator. During  the  pulse  period  a  large  emitter  current  flows  through  Di 
in  the  conducting  direction.  T^  is  the  output  transformer  while  trans- 
former T3  provides  the  essential  positive  feedback  for  the  blocking  oscilla- 
tor. 


L,  R, 

-'TW VW 

N 


BOOTSTRAP  TIMING 
TUNED  TO  672  K.C 


INPUT 


QUANTIZED   FEEDBACK 

AAA- 


Fig.  3  —  Circuit  diagram  of  the  regenerative  repeater. 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY   PULSE   REGENERATOR  10G7 

2.1  Inhibiting  in  Blocking  Oscillator 

The  secondary  of  Ts  is  connected  between  the  transistor  base  and 
ground  with  the  diode  D2  and  resistor  R^  in  series  across  it.  The  combina- 
tion of  diode  and  resistance  across  T^  serves  a  very  important  function, 
the  inhibiting  of  multiple  triggering  on  a  single  input  pulse.  During  the 
interval  in  which  the  pulse  is  regenerated  a  negative  potential  is  applied 
between  the  base  and  ground.  A  current  h  flows  through  the  base  of  the 
transistor,  the  diode  Do  being  poled  to  restrict  the  flow  of  current  in  7?3 . 
At  the  end  of  the  pulse  the  current  h  in  T^  drops  suddenly  to  a  low  value. 
This  current  change  in  the  inductive  winding  of  T3  induces  a  relatively 
large  potential  across  the  base  of  the  blocking  oscillator.  The  impedance 
of  D2  becomes  low  and  current  flows  in  Rz  and  T3 .  The  potential  across  T-s 
decays  exponentially  and  with  proper  circuit  values  will  take  the  form  of 
a  damped  cosine  wave. 

E  =  Eoe~"'  cos  wo^  (10) 

I  where  t  is  the  time  measured  from  the  peak  of  the  pulse.  The  values  of 
a  and  coo  can  be  adjusted  by  varying  the  inductance  the  transformer  and 
the  capacity  and  resistance  connected  across  it.  E  should  become  sub- 
stantially zero  at  or  near  the  next  timing  interval.  The  damping  coeffici- 
ent a  should  be  sufficiently  large  to  prevent  an  appreciable  negative  ex- 
cursion of  E  since  this  will  reduce  the  effective  bias  on  the  repeater  and 
consecjuently  its  noise  margins.  This  will  be  further  discussed  in  the  sec- 
tion on  the  measurements  of  errors. 

2.2  Quantized  Feedback 

The  quantized  feedback  is  provided  by  coupling  the  input  and  output 
transformers  by  means  of  resistances  R.  The  fed  back  pulse  must  be  in 
the  opposite  phase  compared  to  the  input  signal. 

2.3  Timing  Wave  Circuit 

The  timing  wave  is  derived  by  means  of  the  parallel  resonant  tank  cir- 
cuit L2C5  which  is  tuned  to  the  signal  repetition  frecjuency.  The  regen- 
erated pulses  are  applied  to  this  network  through  the  relatively  large 
resistance  7^4  .  The  amoimt  of  energy  added  to  the  network  by  each  pulse 
as  well  as  the  amount  dissipated  in  it  is  a  function  of  Q.  The  higher  the  Q 
the  smaller  will  be  the  variations  of  timing  wave  amplitude  as  the  aver- 
age pulse  density  of  the  signal  train  changes.  This  does  not  mean  that 
the  highest  Q  will  be  the  most  desirable  for  increased  Q  means  larger, 


1068      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

more  expensive  coils.  Higher  Q's  also  produce  greater  variations  in  im- 
pedance and  phase  with  small  changes  of  resonant  frequency  which  re- 
(luirc  much  closer  control  of  inductance  and  capacity  with  temperature. 
In  the  circuit  described  here  the  Q  has  a  value  of  about  100  and  its  opera- 
tion is  quite  satisfactory'.  The  tank  circuit  is  coupled  through  the  small 
condenser  Cz  to  the  diode  Dz  .  This  diode  ties  the  positive  peaks  of  the 
timing  wave  to  ground  as  is  reciuired  for  inverted  pedestal  timing.  The 
network  N  pro^'ides  the  timing  delay  needed  for  optimum  repeater  per- 
formance. 

2.4  DC  Compensation  in  Timing  Wave 

The  timing  wave  amplitude  from  the  tank  circuit  is  insufficient  to  allow 
it  to  be  applied  directly  to  the  emitter  of  the  blocking  oscillator.  Conse- 
quently in  the  interest  of  circuit  simplicity  the  signal  amplifier  is  used 
for  the  timing  wave  as  well.  To  avoid  the  complications  introduced  by 
dc  coupled  circuits  when  close  bias  tolerances  must  be  maintained,  the 
amplifier  was  coupled  to  the  blocking  oscillator  by  condenser  C2  .  This 
presents  a  problem  as  to  how  to  neutralize  the  charge  the  dc  component 
of  the  timing  wave  builds  up  on  C2  .  The  means  by  which  this  is  accom- 
plished can  be  more  easily  understood  by  referring  to  Fig.  4. 

In  this  figure  the  time  constant  of  the  feedback  loop  RoCiRi ,  is  made 
large  so  that  substantially  equal  charges  are  added  to  Ci  by  each  regen- 
erated pulse.  In  the  timing  loop  this  is  also  nearly  true  even  though  noise 


INPUT 


T 


yf 


Cp 


REGENERATIVE 
REPEATER 


R, 


:C, 


.^  A  A  _. 


V    V   ^ 


X 
X 


c 


T 


Roy  r^i 

x'' 


OUTPUT 


Fig.  4 


QUANTIZED   FEEDBACK 

Method  for  maintaining  the  dc  values  of  timing  wave. 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY   PULSE   REGENERATOR  1069 

may  change  the  phase  of  indi^•idllal  pulses.  The  change  of  amplitude  of 
the  sinusoidal  timing  wave  in  one  pulse  period  will  be 

AAr  =  Ar[l  -  e-''"^""]  (11) 

w  here  Q  =  wL/R  and  tm  is  the  timing  interval.  In  a  similar  manner  the 
\ariation  of  the  amplitude  of  the  voltage  across  Ci  will  be 

AAc  =  AcW  -  e-'-'/^i^^]  (12) 

If  now  7?i  and  Ci  are  adjusted  until 

TV  1 


Q      RiC, 


(13) 


and  Ro  varied  initil  the  amplitude  Ac  is  eriual  to  the  a^•erage  value  of 
At  ,  the  charge  on  the  interstage  coupling  condenser  should  be  effectively 
neutralized  at  all  times.  Since  both  loops  are  made  up  of  passive  elements 
with  common  inputs  and  outputs  a  single  adjustment  should  suffice 
even  though  the  pulse  amplitude,  width,  or  signal  pulse  density  may  vary. 
In  the  repeater  circuit  shown  on  Fig.  3  this  neutralizing  principle  is 
used  but  is  more  difficult  to  see.  When  a  pulse  is  regenerated,  a  large 
emitter  current  flows  in  Di ,  which  produces  a  sharp  negative  voltage 
spike.  This  voltage  adds  a  charge  to  C2  which  tends  to  neutralize  the  one 
the  timing  wave  adds  to  it.  The  time  constant  of  C2  and  its  associated 
circuit  may  be  made  to  equal  the  decrement  of  the  tank  circuit  and  the 
two  amplitudes  made  equal  by  adjusting  the  level  of  the  timing  wave. 
By  this  means  effective  dc  transmission  of  the  timing  wave  is  achieved 
through  capacity  coupling. 

2.5  Line  Equalization 

The  line  equalizer  is  not  essentially  a  part  of  the  repeater  itself.  It  is 
however  so  intimately  connected  with  the  repeater  it  is  logical  that  they 
be  considered  together.  One  of  the  important  ecjualizer  requirements  is 
simplicity,  another,  that  the  impedance  seen  from  the  repeater  input 
shall  be  substantially  constant  over  a  relatively  large  frequency  range. 
This  latter  requirement  comes  from  the  need  of  transmitting  the  feed- 
back pulse  around  the  feedback  loop  to  the  emitter  of  the  first  transistor 
without  too  much  distortion.  The  equalizer  is  not  used  to  equalize  the 
low  frecjuency  losses  of  transformers  but  only  the  frequency  characteris- 
tic of  the  line.  The  eciualization  must  be  such  that  the  individual  pulses 
are  allowed  to  widen  but  not  enough  to  cause  inter-symbol  interference. 


1070      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

A  gaiLssian  shaped  pulse  at  the  output  of  the  Hue  is  one  of  the  most  eco- 
noniical  to  use  and  can  have  a  maximum  span  of  on(!  timing  interval  at 
its  base.  Howe^'er,  in  this  case  the  envelope  of  a  long  consecutive  se- 
(juence  of  such  pulses  will  show  substantially  no  ripple.  It  can  be  readily 
seen  that  in  such  a  seciuence  the  onl}-  timing  control  exercised  by  the 
input  upon  the  timing  wnve  comes  from  the  first  pulse.  In  the  interest 
of  better  timing  and  consecjuently  better  repeater  performance  one  should 
be  content  with  narrower  pulses  at  the  repeater  input.  The  resulting  rip- 
ple of  the  envelope  of  a  consecutive  pulse  sequence  allo^^"S  each  incoming 
pulse  some  control  over  the  repeater  timing. 

3.0   REPEATER   PERFORMANCE 

To  check  the  performance  of  the  regenerative  repeaters  a  binary 
code  generator  was  built  having  a  nominal  pulse  repetition  rate  of  672  kc 
producing  an  eight  digit  code.  Any  code  combination  from  the  possible 
256  can  be  selected  or  the  code  automatically  changed  at  periodic  inter- 
vals reproducing  all  possible  codes  in  orderly  sequence.  Random  codes 
may  also  be  generated  by  making  the  absence  or  presence  of  a  pulse 


52 


<rt  48 


44 


z 
g 

z 

UJ 


40? 


<  36 


32 


0.56  MILES  OF 
EQUALIZED    32  GAUGE-, 
CABLE   USED  IN  TEST      \ 
^— ^-n— n    __Q_     I      n     I     '■ 


10 


..-cr 


--?' 


2.3  MILES  OF 

EQUALIZED 

19  GAUGE  CABLE. 


20  40        60     80  100  200  400 

FREQUENCY    IN    KILOCYCLES    PER   SECOND 


600 


1000 


PULSE 

CODE 

GENERATOR 


-EQUALIZERS ^^ 


(b) 

Fig.  5(a)  — Equalized  characteristics  of  19  and  32  gauge  line. 
Fig.  5(b)  —  Block  diagram  of  equalizer  for  32  gauge  line. 


TRANSISTOR    BINARY    PULSE    REGENERATOR  1071 

ill  anj^  time  slot  dependent  on  the  polarity  of  random  noise.  The  output 
(if  the  code  generator  was  made  substantially  the  same  as  the  outputs 
I  »f  the  repeaters  both  in  shape  and  amplitude.  Two  types  of  transmission 
line  were  used,  a  line  from  a  51  pair  19  gauge  exchange  cable  and  a  pair 
from  a  32  gauge  experimental  cable.  The  nominal  lengths  of  cable  be- 
tween repeaters  was  2.3  miles  for  the  19  gauge  and  0.56  miles  for  the  32 
nauge  cable.  Fig.  5(a)  shows  the  equalized  characteristics  for  both  these 
lines.  The  important  differences  between  the  two  is  a  greater  flat  loss 
w  ith  a  better  high  frequency  characteristic  for  the  32  gauge  cable.  This 
was  advantageous  in  the  study  of  error  production  and  consequently, 
the  error  measurements  were  all  made  with  this  cable.  The  19  gauge 
characteristic  represents  about  the  maximum  high  frequency  loss  that 
can  be  tolerated  by  these  regenerative  repeaters. 

The  performance  of  the  regenerative  repeater  circuit  can  best  be  shown 
by  photographs  taken  from  a  cathode  ray  oscilloscope  representation. 
Plate  I  shows  the  effect  of  the  19  gauge  line  equalizer.  The  output  pulse 
(1)  transmitted  over  the  unequalized  line  has  become  very  broad,  ex- 
tending over  several  timing  intervals,  which  are  indicated  by  small 
pips  along  the  trace.  The  addition  of  the  equalizer  reduces  the  width 
of  the  received  pulse  (2)  until  it  is  somewhat  narrower  than  the  normal 
pulse  interval  of  the  code.  Plate  II  shows  a  series  of  photographs  taken 
of  the  input  and  output  of  a  repeater  with  or  without  interference  added 
at  the  repeater  input.*  A  signal  code  at  the  input  of  the  repeater  is 
shown  on  (a)  and  its  regenerated  output  on  (b).  A  sinusoidal  inter- 
ference having  a  frequency  of  about  100-kc  pictured  on  (c)  is  added  to  the 
signal  as  represented  on  (d).  The  regenerated  output  of  input  (d)  is 
shown  on  (e) .  From  these  it  can  be  seen  that  while  interference  does  not 
change  the  pulse  shape  or  size,  it  does  produce  a  phase  modulation. 


Plate  I  —  Single  pulse  at  output  of  2.3  miles  of  19  gauge  cable.  1  —  Unequa- 
lized. 2  —  equalized. 

*  The  input  signal  of  this  and  some  of  the  following  photographs  was  taken 
with  the  repeater  in  an  inoperative  condition.  This  was  done  in  order  to  avoid  the 
resulting  complexity  that  results  when  both  the  quantized  feedback  and  timing 
wave  are  added  to  the  combinations  of  incoming  signal  and  interference. 


1072      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


(a) 


AJ^ 


(0 


(d) 


rsa 


(e) 


Tl^ 


Plate  II  —  (a),  repeater  input,  no  interference;  (b),  regenerated  output  with 
input  (a);  (c),  sinusoidal  interference;  (d),  repeater  input,  signal  (a)  plus  sinusoi- 
dal interference  (c);  (e),  regenerated  output  of  (d). 

3.1  Performance  of  Repeaters  in  Tandem 

Plate  III  shows  the  results  when  certain  phase  modulated  codes  are 
transmitted  through  a  series  of  repeaters  in  tandem.  The  regenerated 
signal  from  each  successive  repeater  is  transmitted  over  2.3  miles  of 
equalized  19  gauge  line.  One  code  which  has  two  out  of  a  possible  eight 
pulses  present  has  most  of  the  phase  jitter  removed  after  passing  through 
the  three  additional  repeaters.  The  other  fixed  code  shown  contains  four 
out  of  a  possible  eight  pulses.  The  jitter  is  removed  much  more  rapidlj^ 
with  this  code,  after  passing  through  two  repeaters  it  is  regenerated  al- 
most perfectly.  The  reason  for  the  difference  in  the  regeneration  of  the 
two  codes  is  variations  in  the  amplitude  of  the  timing  wave.  In  any  period 
of  time  the  energy  delivered  to  the  tank  circuit  is  proportional  to  the 
number  of  regenerated  pulses  in  that  interval.  The  amplitude  of  the 
timing  wave  for  a  fixed  code  with  two  pulses  of  the  eight  will  be  half 
the  one  produced  by  the  code  having  four  pulses  out  of  eight  present. 
The  average  number  of  pulses  in  a  normal  PCM  signal  will  be  half  the 
maximum  possible  pulses.  The  timing  wave  should  then  average  the 
same  as  that  produced  by  the  fixed  code  having  four  out  of  a  possible 
eight  pulses  present.  The  phase  jitter  of  the  random  code  should  be  re- 
moved as  quickly  as  it  was  with  this  fixed  code.  This  is  confirmed  by 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY   PULSE   REGENERATOR 


1073 


regenerating  a  noise-dictated  random  code  having  the  same  pulse 
density  expected  of  a  normal  PCM  signal.  The  results  are  shown  on 
Plate  III(c).  After  passing  through  two  repeaters  the  jitter  has  been 
substantially  removed  as  shown  by  the  sharp  vertical  lines  marking  the 
pulses.  The  thickening  of  the  horizontal  lines  are  produced  by  transients 
produced  by  low  frequency  cut  off  distortion.  In  all  these  photographs 
the  oscillograph  synchronization  was  obtained  from  the  code  generator. 

3.2  Possible  Effects  of  Line  Temperature  Variations 

The  gain  and  phase  characteristics  of  a  particular  wire  transmission 
line  is  a  function  not  only  of  its  length  but  of  temperature  as  well.  To 
the  first  order  approximation  the  effect  of  an  increase  in  temperature 
may  be  considered  as  caused  by  an  increase  in  the  length  of  the  line. 
In  order  to  better  understand  the  effect  of  temperature  change  on  re- 
peater performance  the  following  steps  were  taken;  The  repeater  was 
adjusted  for  optimum  performance  with  2.3  miles  of  line  between  it  and 
the  preceding  repeater  and  then  the  length  of  the  connecting  transmis- 
sion line  was  decreased  by  about  25  per  cent.  It  was  found  that  for  the 
same  interference  on  the  input  of  the  repeater  no  difference  in  the 
performance  of  the  repeater  was  observed.  Plate  IV  shows  a  fixed  code 
signal  after  it  has  traversed  2.3  miles  of  equalized  cable.  Superimposed 


TWO-PULSE    CODE 


lb) 

FOUR-PULSE  CODE 


(C) 
RANDOM  CODE 


Plate  III  —  (a),  set  code  having  2  pulses  out  of  possible  8;  (b),  set  code  having 
4  pulses  out  of  possible  8;  (c),  random  code  having  an  average  of  4  pulses  out  of  a 
possible  8.1  (a  and  b),  input  signal  plus  interference;  2  (a  and  b),  regenerated 
output  of  1;  3,  expanded  section  of  2;  4,  output  of  2nd  repeater;  5,  output  of  3rd 
repeater;  6,  output  of  4th  repeater.  1(c),  input  signal  alone;  2(c),  imput  signal 
plus  interference. 


1074   THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  SEPTEMBER  1956 

on  this  is  the  same  signal  after  traversing  a  1.75  mile  length  of  line  and 
the  same  equalizer.  Shortening  the  line  results  in  the  transmitted  pulses 
having  higher  peak  amplitudes  and  narrower  widths.  Faulty  high  fre- 
quency equalization  of  the  shorter  lengths  produces  the  short  tail 
following  the  pulse.  It  is  interesting  to  observe  that  the  transient  tail 
due  to  the  low  frequency  cut  off  has  not  changed  appreciably  as  the 
line  was  shortened.  This  is  to  be  expected  since  it  can  be  shown  that 
the  energy  of  the  low  frequency  cut  off  transient  is  concentrated  in  low 
frequency  end  of  the  transmission  spectrum.  In  this  region  changes  in 
the  length  of  the  line,  or  changes  in  the  primary  constants  will  result 
in  inconsequential  changes  in  attenuation  and  phase  as  is  shown  on 
Fig.  6.  If  the  quantized  feedback  is  adjusted  for  the  worst  condition, 
i.e.,  the  highest  temperature  likely  to  be  encountered,  it  will  not  need 
to  be  changed  with  lower  temperatures. 

4.0   ERROR   PRODUCTION    BY   EXTRANEOUS    INTERFERENCE 

A  knowledge  of  the  performance  of  a  regenerative  repeater  with 
various  types  and  amounts  of  interference  added  to  the  input  signal  is 
important.  Consequently  a  study  of  such  errors  produced  in  one  of 
these  repeaters  was  undertaken.  Two  general  types  of  extraneous  inter- 
ference was  used  in  this  study.  The  first  is  impulse  noise,  the  type  which 
is  produced  by  telephone  dials,  switches,  lightning  surges  and  crosstalk 
from  other  pulse  systems.  The  second  is  sinusoidal  noise,  the  type  which 
come  from  power  line  or  carrier  crosstalk.  This  interference  may  affect 
the  regenerated  output  in  a  number  of  ways.  It  may  produce  a  phase 
shift  or  "jitter"  in  the  output;  cause  a  pulse  to  be  omitted;  or  cause  a 
spurious  pulse  to  be  inserted  in  the  signal  code.  The  phase  jitter  will  be 
largely  removed  by  timing  regeneration  in  subsequent  repeaters,  but 
omission  and  most  insertion  errors  will  be  carried  through  the  remaining 
repeaters,  causing  distortion  in  the  decoded  signal. 


Plate  IV  —  Superimposed  picture  of  the  outputs  of  2.3  and  1 .75  miles  of  19  gauge 
cable  with  identical  injjuts. 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY   PULSE    REGENERATOR 


1075 


60 
55 
50 
45 
40 
35 
30 
25 
20 
15 
10 
5 
0 


, 

y 

/ 

EQUALIZED    2.3    MILES 

/ 

1 
/ 

— 

_!L. 

^_    .» 

V 

> 

1 

EQUALIZER 

=  LUS 

"-y 

^ 

1.75   MILES    CABLE 

A 

^^ 

\ 

2.3    MILES    CNB 
19    GAUGE  CABLE 

.^ 

^' 

1 





1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

8    10  20  40        60     80  100  200 

FREQUENCY  IN    KILOCYCLES   PER   SECOND 


400     600       1000 


Fig.  6  —  Effect  of  changing  the  length  of  19  gauge  line  with  fixed  equalization. 

4.1  Description  of  Error  Detecting  and  Counting  Circuit 

An  error  detecting  and  counting  circuit  was  built  to  count  insertion 
and  omission  errors.  This  circuit  (block  diagram,  Fig.  7)  is  a  coincidence 
detector  in  which  each  pulse  or  space  of  the  repeater  input  signal  is 
compared  to  its  corresponding  regenerated  output.  As  long  as  the  two 
sources  are  the  same,  i.e.,  having  corresponding  pulses  or  spaces,  there 
is  no  output  from  the  detector.  If  the  two  differ  the  detector  produces 
an  output  pulse  which  may  be  caused  to  actuate  the  counting  circuit. 
The  code  generator  as  has  already  been  described  produces  a  number  of 
different  types  of  signal  codes. 

The  output  of  the  code  generator  is  transmitted  over  0.56  miles  of 
equalized  32  gauge  cable  to  the  regenerative  repeater  under  test.  Inter- 
ference is  introduced  at  the  repeater  input  when  desired.  A  portion  of 
the  code  generator  output  is  differentiated  and  passed  over  a  delay 
cable  whose  delay  is  substantially  that  of  the  section  of  32  gauge  line 
over  which  the  signal  is  transmitted.  This  delayed  signal  is  regenerated 
without  error  by  the  single  shot  blocking  oscillator  A,  The  width  of  the 
blocking  oscillator  pulses  are  adjusted  to  be  about  half  of  the  total 
timing  interval.  The  width  of  the  pulses  from  the  regenerative  repeater 


1076      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

are  likewise  widened  to  a  corresponding  width  by  blocking  oscillator  B. 
Unfortunately  a  variable  phase  shift  is  introduced  in  the  repeater  output 
by  interference  and  by  variations  in  the  timing  wave  amplitude  and 
phase.  This  variable  phase  shift  prevents  perfect  coincidence  between 
the  outputs  of  blocking  oscillators  A  and  B.  An  example  of  phase  "jitter" 
caused  by  interference  is  shown  on  Plate  V(a).  To  overcome  this  a 
sharp  sampling  pip;  as  shown  on  the  same  plate,  is  provided  to  enable 
the  detection  of  the  narrow  region  of  coincidence  between  the  two  signals. 
These  pips  are  generated  from  the  repeater  timing  wave,  hence  they 
follow  the  timing  wave  phase  variations.  The  regenerated  signal  pulses 
also  follow  the  timing  wave  phase.  If  the  sampling  pulse  is  positioned  to 
fall  in  the  center  of  the  regenerated  pulses,  it  will  tend  to  maintain  that 
position  as  the  timing  wave  changes. 

The  gates  require  a  signal  pulse  and  sampling  pip  to  be  present 
simultaneously  before  there  can  be  an  output.  This  output,  then,  will 
have  substantially  the  same  shape  and  position  as  the  sampling  pip. 
When  a  signal  pulse  is  simultaneously  applied  to  each  gate  the  two 
outputs  can  be  made  to  cancel  when  added  in  opposite  phase  as  is  done 
in  Ti .  If  however  there  is  a  pulse  on  one  gate  and  a  blank  on  the  other, 
an  output  pulse  will  be  produced.  The  polarity  of  this  pulse  will  depend 
upon  which  gate  contains  the  signal  pulse.  Since  the  decade  counter  is 


PULSE 

CODE 

GENERATOR 


■w-v 


DELAY 
LINE 


BLOCKING 
OSCILLATOR 

(A) 


V\AP 


AMPLIFIER 


DIFFEREN- 
TIATOR 


iULJL 


"and" 

GATE 
(A) 


VvV      MAI 


SAMPLING 

BLOCKING 

OSCILLATOR 


BLOCKING 
OSCILLATOR 

(B) 


J] n. 


"and" 

GATE 

(B) 


OMISSION     ERROR 


OUTPUT    TO   CABLE 
"AND    NEXT  REPEATER 


11_L 


TI 


JLJ_ 


POLARITY 

REVERSING 

SWITCH 


JL 


BLOCKING 

OSCILLATOR 

(D) 


JL 


DECADE 
COUNTER 


Fig.  7  —  Block  diagram  of  error  detecting  circuit. 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY   PULSE   REGENERATOR 


1077 


(a) 


(b) 


Plate  V  —  (a)  with  1,  repeater  output;  2,  jitter  on  output  pulse;  3,  sampling 
pulse,  (b)  with  1,  signal  pulse  at  repeater  input;  2,  672-kc  timing  pips;  3,  interfer- 
ence  input. 

triggered  by  pulses  of  one  polarity,  the  reversing  switch  permits  the 
independent  measuring  of  different  types  of  errors.  The  counter  used 
in  this  study  has  9  decades  capable  of  counting  and  recording  (10^  —  1) 
errors  at  10^  counts  per  second. 

4.2  Discussion  of  Impulse  Noise  Generator 

A  study  of  the  noise  in  cable  pairs  leading  from  a  central  office  indicate 
that  impulse  noise  will  cause  much  of  the  expected  interference  on  pulse 
systems.  In  order  to  simulate  the  effect  of  this  type  of  interference,  a 
generator  was  built  which  produces  uniformly  shaped  pulses  over  a  wide 
range  of  rates.  The  polarity  of  these  pulses  can  be  reversed  and  their 
amplitude  varied  continuously  from  zero  to  a  value  exceeding  the 
peaks  of  the  signal  pulses.  These  impulses  were  introduced  into  the 
center  of  a  transmission  cable  through  a  high  impedance.  Plate  V(b) 
shows  photographs  comparing  the  impulse  with  a  signal  pulse.  The 
repetition  rate  for  the  impulse  interference  used  in  this  investigation 
was  lOVsec,  which  is  low  compared  to  the  nominal  pulse  repetition  rate 
of  the  signal  (6.72  X  lOVsec).  With  the  relatively  large  separation  be- 
tween interfering  impulses,  there  is  no  measurable  interaction  between 
errors  produced  in  the  repeater.  At  the  same  time  the  impulse  rate  is 
high  enough  to  get  an  excellent  statistical  distribution  in  the  10  second 
interval  used  in  these  measurements. 


1078      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

4.3  Production  of  Impulse  Errors  —  Nomenclature  and  Discussion 

To  expedite  the  discussion  of  impulse  errors,  the  following  system  of 
nomenclature  is  used.  Any  impulse  having  the  same  polarity  as  the 
signal  pulse  is  designated  as  "plus."  Those  having  the  opposite  polarity 
are  "minus."  Two  types  of  errors  are  produced.  First,  a  spurious  pulse 
may  be  added  to  the  regenerated  signal;  this  is  called  an  "insertion" 
error.  Second,  a  signal  pulse  may  be  removed,  which  is  called  an  "omis- 
sion" error.  A  "plus  insertion"  error  is  a  spurious  pulse  introduced  bj^ 
an  impulse  having  the  same  polarity  as  the  signal.  A  "plus  omission" 
error  on  the  other  hand  is  pulse  omitted  because  of  a  pulse  of  same 
polarity  as  the  signal.  A  "minus  omission"  error  is  a  pulse  omitted  be- 
cause of  an  impulse  having  a  polarity  opposite  to  that  of  the  signal. 

A  positive  pulse,  if  large  enough,  can  produce  a  spurious  pulse  at 
any  instant  of  time  not  already  occupied  by  a  pulse.  The  only  require- 
ment for  the  production  of  such  a  pulse  is  that  the  sum  of  the  impulse 
and  timing  wave  exceed  the  trigger  level.*  On  the  other  hand,  a  nega- 
tive impulse  cannot  produce  a  spurious  pulse  but  can  only  cause  a 
signal  pulse  to  be  omitted.  If  a  pulse  is  to  be  omitted  the  sum  of  its 
amplitude,  the  timing  wave  and  the  impulse  must  not  exceed  the  trigger 
level.  It  would  be  expected  that  the  number  of  plus  insertion  errors  will 
exceed  the  minus  omission  errors.  This  follows  from  the  fact  that  a 
spurious  pulse  may  be  produced  at  any  point  not  already  occupied  by  a 
pulse.  On  the  other  hand  if  a  signal  pulse  is  to  be  omitted  the  negative 
impulse  must  occur  in  the  time  interval  occupied  by  the  signal  pulse. 
A  positive  impulse  is  indirectly  responsible  for  the  positive  omission 
error.  When  a  spurious  pulse  is  produced  a  short  interval  of  time  ahead 
of  a  signal  pulse,  the  latter  may  be  removed  by  the  inhibiting  reaction 
of  the  spurious  pulse.  There  is  no  apparent  way  in  which  a  minus  insertion 
error  can  be  produced.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  fact  that  no  error  of  this 
type  was  observed  in  this  investigation.  Thus  we  have  three  types  of 
errors  produced:  plus  insertion,  minus  omission  and  plus  omission. 

4.4  Results  of  Impulse  Interference  Measurements 

Preliminary  measurements  of  errors  as  functions  of  impulse  amplitude 
were  made  using  random  code.  These  measured  values,  shown  on  Fig.  8 
exhibit  many  of  the  expected  characteristics.  For  example  the  insertion 
errors  are  more  numerous  than  the  omission  and  the  threshold  of  the 
plus  omission  errors  is  considerably  higher  than  those  of  the  other  two. 

*  The  trigger  level  is  normally  considered  to  be  the  negative  dc  bias  applied  to 
the  emitter  of  the  blocking  oscillator.  There  are  however  other  components  of  the 
bias  that  will  be  discussed  later. 


TRANSISTOR    BINARY    PULSE    REGENERATOR 


1079 


If) 

/ 

UJ 

X 

0) 

/ 

_1 

J 

fi 

2  25 

^ 

/ 

/ 

5 

/   ^ 

/ 

PLUS 

/o/ 

o 

INSERTION/        /' 

z 

ERRORS/ 

/ 

/ 
/ 

fe20 

A 

/ 

/       / 

a. 

LU 

m 

5 
Z) 

/     ^ 

/       / 

MINUS 

/       / 

OMISSION 

z 

f       / 

/ 

ERRORS, 

s" 

c/ 

^^ — ^"^ 

/ 

/ 

" 

'""'^ 

o 

/ 

^^^^ 

1— 

/     / 

y^ 

> 

o 

/  ^ 

/     / 

• 

1- 

2  10 

/    / 
/    / 

/ f 

A' 

f        / 

P 

/    /       / 
/  /    / 

/  1    / 

A^' 

•■^ 

UJ 

Q- 

1 1  / 

r^ 

CALCULATED 

X  o  A     MEASURED 

f) 

1 1  / 

/ 

< 

tr    ^ 
o 

\      / 

y  9^' 

CE 

7       / 

PLUS 

UJ 

A 

/    / 

/ 

OMISSION 

^.5. 

, ^ 

/J 

ERRORS 

^x-^'- 

'■^' 

I      ^ ^x^^'^ 

0 

wr             / 

v    „  X  — "—^  "T"*'^ 

40  50  60  70  80  90  100 

IMPULSE   AMPLITUDE  AS   PER  CENT   OF    SIGNAL   AMPLITUDE 

Fig.  8  —  Repeater  errors  as  a  function  of  interference  amplitude. 


On  the  other  hand  there  are  some  deviations  from  the  simple  theory  of  a 
perfect  regenerator  such  as  the  low  common  threshold  value  of  the  plus 
insertion  and  minus  omission  errors.  Some  of  the  differences  can  be 
attributed  to  the  extremely  sensitive  method  of  measuring  errors.  Here 
the  maladjustments  of  timing  tank  circuit,  quantized  feedback  ampli- 
tude as  well  as  other  factors  which  cannot  be  readily  detected  by  other 
means  are  reflected  as  sources  of  error.  However  with  care  these  errors 
can  be  made  small  and  the  measured  values  should  follow  the  theoretical 
values  reasonably  well. 

Most  variations  from  theoretical  values  are  due  to  changes  in  the 
effective  bias  caused  by  intersymbol  crosstalk.  This  can  be  demon- 
strated by  measurements  made  using  set  codes.  In  all  these  codes  the 
number  of  pulses  equaled  the  number  of  blanks  but  combinations  varied 
from  one  to  another.  On  Fig.  9  the  omission  errors  are  plotted  for  a 
fixed  impulse  amplitude  as  a  function  of  the  nimiber  of  pulses  which 


1080      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


1-4 


CODE;     1 


CODE   COMBINATIONS 

'  juiriji 

2  jirL.._.._n_rL.._.. 

3  iirL.A..A.._.. 

-  _rL..A..jL._n... 


1  2  3  4  5  6 

NUMBER    OF    PULSE  -  BLANI<,   COMBINATIONS   IN   EACH    CODE   GROUP 


Fig.  9  —  Repeater  errors  as  a  function  of  pulse  distribution  in  code. 

are  followed  by  a  space  in  the  particular  code.  The  codes  used  for  various 
points  on  the  abscissa  are  shown  on  the  graph.  The  omission  error  curves 
plotted  in  this  manner  are  linear.  These  data  demonstrate  that  the 
presence  of  a  pulse  modifies  the  trigger  level  in  the  next  timing  interval. 
This  is  largely  due  to  the  negative  excursion  of  the  damped  cosine  volt- 
age from  base  to  ground  in  the  blocking  oscillator.  On  Fig.  10(a)  is 
shown  the  circuit  of  the  single  shot  blocking  oscillator  used  in  the 
repeater.  With  no  timing  an  incoming  signal  must  overcome  bias  V dc 
to  trigger  the  repeater.  The  solid  curve  on  Fig.  10(b)  shows  the  dc  bias 
with  the  timing  wave  added  at  the  blocking  oscillator  emitter.  Fig.  10(c) 
shows  the  base  voltage  when  a  pulse  is  produced  in  the  first  timing  inter- 
val. The  pulse  begins  at  U  and  ends  at  U  .  As  previously  mentioned  the 
sudden  rise  of  the  base  and  collector  impedance  coupled  with  the  fall 
of  the  current  in  the  transformer  windings,  produces  an  inductive  voltage 
surge  across  transformer  Tz  at  h  .  The  decay  of  this  voltage  surge  can 
be  controlled  by  the  inductance  of  the  transformer  and  the  damping 
resistor  Rf,  .  This  positive  decay  voltage  across  the  base  will  inhibit  the 
blocking  oscillator  from  triggering.  It  is  essential  that  this  decay  be 
adjusted  so  it  will  inhibit  triggering  until  the  following  time  slot.  If 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY    PULSE   REGENERATOR 


1081 


the  decay  transient  is  a  damped  oscillation  and  the  base  voltage  passes 
through  zero  at  the  next  normal  triggering  time,  sufficient  damping  must 
be  provided  so  the  negative  excursion  is  negUgible.  The  dashed  line 
shows  how  the  effective  bias  at  the  emitter  is  modified  by  this  voltage 
across  the  base. 

Fig.  1 1  shows  the  measured  values  of  plus  insertion  and  minus  omis- 
sion errors  for  two  set  codes.  These  are  plotted  as  functions  of  impulse 
amplitude.  The  first  code  has  alternate  pulses  and  blanks  while  the 
second  consists  of  pairs  of  pulses  separated  by  pairs  of  blanks.  With 
these  two  curves  the  error  threshold  values  may  be  determined  from 


REPEATER 

BLOCKING 

OSCILLATOR 


OUTPUT 


NO. 2    PLUS 
I        INSERTION 
I       THRESHOLD 
I 


TIME 


TIME 


Fig.  10  —  (a)  Circuit  diagram  of  blocking  oscillator  showing  various  compo- 
nents of  the  effective  bias,  (b)  The  effective  bias  as  a  function  of  time,  (c)  Inhibit- 
ing voltage  Vb  produced  by  a  regenerated  pulse. 


1082      THE   BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   SEPTEMBER    1956 


30 


UJ 


CODE 

rL.Ji..Ji..Ji 
nR....jin_._. 


CALCULATED  MEASURED 

o     X 


45  50  55  60  65  70  75  80 

IMPULSE   AMPLITUDE   AS    PER  CENT   OF    SIGNAL    AMPLITUDE 


Fig.  11  —  Calculated  and  measured  repeater  errors  for  two  set  codes. 


1  ST  NEGATIVE 

OMISSION 
THRESHOLD ^ 


PULSE 
HEIGHT 


2  ND  POSITIVE 

INSERTION 

THRESHOLD 

=  C=Vd 


1ST  POSITIVE 

INSERTION 

THRESHOLD 

=  b 
Fig.  12  —  Bias  levels  used  in  calculating  repeater  errors. 

the  points  of  discontinuity.  Fig.  12  illustrates  these  various  error  thresh- 
olds with  reference  to  a  signal  pulse.  Theoretical  curves  were  plotted 
using  these  values  and  the  observed  values  of  timing  and  signal  aniph- 
tudes  as  shown  on  Fig.  11.  It  can  be  seen  that  very  good  agreement  exists 
between  the  measured  and  computed  values. 
The  separate  lower  thresholds  for  insertion  and  omission  errors  may 


TRANSISTOR   BINARY   PULSE   REGENERATOR 


1083 


be  explained  from  Fig.  10(b).  These  are  caused  by  the  phase  shift  intro- 
duced by  the  inhibiting  voltage  to  the  effective  bias  compared  to  that 
of  the  timing  wave.  The  omission  thresholds  are  determined  chiefly  by 
the  maximum  signal  amplitude.  On  the  other  hand  the  insertion  thresh- 
olds are  determined  by  the  point  of  maximum  trigger  bias.  There  exists 
then  two  separate  threshold  values  for  a  timing  interval  which  follows  a 
regenerated  pulse.  These  values  can  be  measured  from  points  "a"  and 
"b"  on  Fig.  10(b). 

4.5  Result  of  Sinusoidal  Interference  Measurements 

On  Fig.  13  are  shown  the  errors  produced  by  sinusoidal  interference. 
Here  a  110-kc  sine  wave  is  added  to  the  signal  and  the  various  types 

10 


1.0 


a: 
o 

(£ 
UJ 


to 

I- 

3 

m 

UJ 

2 


10" 


li. 

o 


10" 


OJ 

u 
a. 


10" 


10" 


^^ 

TOTAL 

errors  yP^ 

<** 

^ 

V"^ 

x'' 

/  / 

/' 

/ 

/ 

l/l 

7 

l/l 

///omission 
///  errors 

1 

1 1 
HI 
pi 
1 ' 

1  1 

'I 

'  1 

INSERTION    ^ 
ERRORS  '' 

/ 
1 

1 

1 
f 

50  55  60  65  70  75  80 

PEAK-TO-PEAK    AMPLITUDE    OF    INTERFERENCE 

X  100% 


85 


Fig.  13  - 
interference 


PEAK    AMPLITUDE   OF    SIGNAL 

Repeater  errors  as  a  function  of  interferences  level  for  sinusoidal 


1084      THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL    JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

of  errors  counted.  Random  code  was  used  in  this  case  and  the  repeater 
bias  was  adjusted  to  provide  equal  omission  and  insertion  thresholds. 
The  threshold  for  this  particular  case  occurred  when  the  peak  to  peak 
sinusoidal  interference  was  63  per  cent  of  the  signal  amplitude.  This  is 
lower  than  the  theoretical  maximum  which  with  a  constant  bias  centered 
at  the  half  amplitude  point,  would  be  100  per  cent  of  the  peak  to  peak 
signal  amplitude.  For  the  bias  conditions  illustrated  on  Fig.  12,  this 
percentage  would  be  86  per  cent  for  the  positive  insertion  threshold  and 
88  per  cent  for  the  minus  omission.  This  becomes  apparent  when  the 
negative  and  positive  excursions  of  the  interfering  sine  wave  are  con- 
sidered as  minus  and  positive  impulses  respectively.  The  remaining  loss 
in  the  interference  margins  can  easily  be  due  to  maladjustments  of  tim- 
ing, quantized  feedback  or  inhibiting. 

When  the  frequency  of  the  sinusoidal  interference  is  varied,  the 
number  of  errors  for  a  constant  interference  voltage  at  the  blocking  os- 
cillator emitter  does  not  change  appreciably.  However,  the  input  trans- 
former and  condenser  coupling  introduce  a  substantial  frequency  charac- 
teristic. This  reduces  considerably  the  errors  caused  by  power  line 
crosstalk.  One  of  the  striking  things  about  the  sinusoidal  interference 
errors  is  the  rate  at  which  they  increase  above  the  threshold.  For  ex- 
ample, a  change  of  1  per  cent  of  the  interference  amplitude  can  triple 
or  quadruple  the  total  number  of  errors. 

5.0   SUMMARY 

New  techniques  and  devices  now"  make  it  possible  to  build  practical 
regenerative  repeaters  for  use  in  digital  transmission.  Such  a  repeater 
which  is  suitable  for  a  12-channel,  7-digit  PCM  system,  is  discussed. 
Simple,  inexpensive  devices  are  used  to  eliminate  the  effects  of  distortion 
due  to  low  frequency  cutoff  and  to  provide  self  timing  for  the  circuit. 
Experimental  evidence  is  presented  which  shows  the  repeater  to  func- 
tion as  expected. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

I  am  deeply  indebted  to  J.  V.  Scattaglia  for  his  aid  in  tliis  project  and 
to  the  pioneering  work  of  A.  J.  Rack  on  quantized  feedback  which  was 
of  great  help  in  the  development  of  this  regenerative  repeater.  I  also 
wish  to  thank  W.  R.  Bennett,  C.  B.  Feldman  and  Gordon  Raisbeck  for 
their  aid  and  many  valuable  suggestions. 


Transistor  Pulse  Regenerative 
Amplifiers 

By  F.  H.  TENDICK,  JR. 

(Manuscript  received  April  5,  1956) 

A  pulse  regenerative  amplifier  is  a  histate  circuit  which  introduces  gain 
(ind  pidse  reshaping  in  a  pulse  transmission  or  digital  data  processing 
system..  Frequently  it  is  used  also  to  retime  the  ptdses  which  constitute  the 
flow  of  information  in  such  systems.  The  small  size,  r-eliahility ,  and  low 
power  consumption  of  the  transistor  have  led  naturally  to  the  use  of  the 
transistor  as  the  active  element  in  the  amplifier.  It  is  the  purpose  of  this 
paper  to  describe  some  of  the  techniques  that  are  pertinent  to  the  design  of 
.synchronized  regenerative  amplifiers  operating  at  a  pulse  repetition  rate 
of  the  order  of  one  megacycle  per  second.  An  illustrative  design  of  an  amp- 
lifier for  use  in  a  specific  digital  computer  is  presented. 

1.    INTRODUCTION 

A  basic  building  block  of  many  modern  digital  data  processing  or 
transmission  systems  is  a  pulse  regenerative  amplifier.  The  particular 
high  speed  transistor  regenerative  amplifiers  to  be  discussed  in  this 
paper  are  intended  for  use  in  systems  where  the  logic  operations  on  the 
digit  pulses  are  performed  by  passive  circuits  and  the  amplifiers  are 
inserted  at  appropriate  intervals  to  amplify,  reshape,  and  retime  the 
pulses.  The  design  of  these  amplifiers  for  any  specified  system  involves 
a  knowledge  of  the  environment  of  the  amplifier  in  the  system,  a  study 
of  possible  functional  circuits  which  are  combined  to  form  an  amplifier 
circuit,  and  the  selection  of  a  combination  of  these  functional  circuits 
to  achieve  the  desired  amplifier  performance.  Although  a  study  of  the 
functional  circuits  constitutes  the  major  portion  of  this  paper,  the 
design  of  an  amplifier  for  a  particular  digital  computfM'  is  presented  to 
illustrate  the  general  design  procedure. 

One  important  way  in  which  these  amplifiers  differ  from  many  pulse 
amplifiers  is  that  they  must  function  properly  under  adverse  conditions. 
That  is,  instead  of  merely  expecting  superior  performance  most  of  the 

1085 


1080      THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

time  under  relatively  special  operating  conditions,  consistently  good 
performance  is  demanded  at  all  times,  even  with  wide  variations  of  cir- 
cuit parameters  and  operating  conditions  (as,  for  example,  a  twenty-to- 
one  variation  in  the  required  output  current).  Therefore,  various  circuit 
possibilities  will  be  examined  from  the  standpoint  of  reliable  per- 
formance. 

When  the  switching  and  mathematical  operations  of  a  digital  data 
processing  system  are  accomplished  by  a  network  of  passive  logic  cir- 
cuits with  amplifiers  interspersed  to  overcome  circuit  losses,^- ^  the 
environment  of  an  amplifier  is  generally  as  indicated  in  Fig.  1.  The 
signal  information  that  passes  from  one  logic  network  to  another  is 
represented  in  a  code  by  a  group  of  discrete  pulses.  Due  to  the  nature 
of  this  digital  information,  utmost  reliability  of  each  amplifier  is  an 
important  requirement  that  greatly  influences  the  amplifier  design. 
Since  the  position  of  a  pulse  in  time  or  place  determines  its  significance 
to  the  system,  it  is  necessary  that  each  pulse  be  identically  amplified 
and  that  noise  or  extraneous  disturbances  do  not  cause  false  output 
pulses  from  an  amplifier.  The  effect  of  an  error  or  a  failure  in  operation 
is  different  for  different  systems  and  in  a  given  system  depends  upon 
the  time  or  place  of  the  failure.  In  some  computers  a  single  mistake  will 
invalidate  an  entire  computation  cycle,  while  a  permanent  failure  of 
even  a  single  amplifier  will  cause  complete  system  failure  in  almost  any 
digital  machine.  Experience  with  the  type  of  amplifier  under  discussion 
indicates  that  failure  rates  of  less  than  a  tenth  of  one  percent  per  thou- 
sand hours  are  attainable. 


Jf 


LOGIC 


LOGIC 


t! 


LOGIC 


DELAY 


u 


it 


LOGIC 


U 


LOGIC 


It 


LOGIC 


LOGIC 


n 


DELAY 


Fig.  1  —  Typical  environment  of  an  am])lifier. 


TRANSISTOE   PULSE    REGENERATIVE    A.MPLIFIERS 


1081 


This  goal  of  reliable  circuit  operation  can  be  realized  if  the  amplifiers 
have : 

a.  Simple  circuitry  with  a  minimum  number  of  parts. 

b.  The  ability  to  operate  with  wide  variations  of  signal  level. 

c.  Ample  margins  against  crosstalk  and  noise. 

d.  Low  sensitiveness  to  changes  in  component  values. 

e.  Low  power  dissipation  to  realize  long  component  life. 

f .  Sufficient  gain  margins  with  system  variations. 

Although  these  features  are  desirable  in  any  circuit,  they  are  often 
subordinated  in  order  to  obtain  special  performance,  usually  at  the  ex- 
pense of  reliability.  In  the  amplifiers  under  discussion  these  features  rep- 
resent the  primary  design  goal. 

As  is  so  often  true,  some  compromises  usually  must  be  made  to  obtain 
a  suitable  balance  of  these  features  in  a  particular  design.  It  is  sometimes 
possible  to  accept  an  increase  in  power  consumption  for  other  desired 
performance.  However,  because  of  the  large  number  of  amplifiers  em- 
ployed, low  power  operation  is  desirable  in  order  to  reduce  the  physi- 
cal size  and  weight  of  a  system.  In  this  paper  considerable  emphasis  is 
placed  on  efficient  low  power  circuits  which  do  not  require  critical  com- 
ponents. 

A  convenient  way  to  study  regenerative  amplifiers  is  to  consider  an 
amplifier  as  a  small  system.  The  following  functional  breakdown  has- 
been  found  useful: 

a.  Transistor  properties. 

b.  Feedback  circuits. 

c.  Input  trigger  circuits. 

d.  Output  coupling  circuits. 

e.  Synchronizing  circuits. 

The  block  diagram  of  an  amplifier  then  might  take  the  form  shown  in 


TIMING 
SIGNAL 
INPUT 

SYNCHRONIZING 
CIRCUIT 

FEEDBACK 
CIRCUIT 

' ' 

1 

SIGNAL 
INPUT 

TRIGGER 
CIRCUIT 

TRANSISTOR 

OUTPUT 
CIRCUIT 

OUTP 

~ 

"*" 

Fig.  2  —  Regenerative  amplifier  block  diagram. 


1088      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Fig.  2.  In  the  following  sections  the  relation  between  each  of  the  above 
functional  features  and  amplifier  performance  is  discussed,  various  circuit 
configurations  to  achieve  each  function  are  investigated,  and  the  inter- 
actions between  the  functional  circuits  are  examined.  The  design  of  any 
particular  ampUfier  then  consists  of  a  suitable  selection  of  a  transistor 
and  functional  circuits  to  achieve  the  desired  amplifier  performance. 

2.    TRANSISTOR   PROPERTIES 

In  a  regenerative  amplifier  the  transistor  operates  as  a  switch  with 
power  gain.  The  "on"  and  "off"  state  usually  are  characterized,  re- 
spectively, by  high  and  low  collector  current  levels,  and  changes  of  state 
are  initiated  by  applied  control  signals.  The  performance  items  of  interest 
are  the  power  dissipation  in  the  two  states,  the  speed  with  which  the 
transistor  changes  state,  the  amount  of  power  gain  available,  and  the 
attainable  margins  against  false  operation.  The  transistor  parameters 
related  to  these  items,  as  discussed  below,  are  listed  in  Table  I  with 
typical  values  for  several  classes  of  transistors.  Desirable  and  satisfactory 
values  have  been  indicated  in  italics. 

The  power  dissipated  in  a  transistor  in  the  "off"  state  is  proportional 
to  Ico  ,  the  collector  current  with  the  emitter  open  circuited,  and  to  the 
collector  supply  voltage.  This  is  wasted  power  and,  since  the  minimum 
collector  supply  voltage  usually  is  dictated  by  other  considerations,  a 
low  Ico  current  is  desirable  to  reduce  standby  power.  Point  contact  units 
are  relatively  poor  in  this  respect.  In  junction  imits  the  7,0  power  is 
almost  negligible  compared  to  other  circuit  standby  power. 

The  power  dissipated  in  a  transistor  in  the  "on"  state  is  proportional 
to  the  saturation  voltage  between  the  collector  and  the  common  terminal. 

Table  I  —  Transistor  Switching  Properties 


Switching  Features 


Ico  at  Vc  =  lOv 

Collector  to  emitter  satura- 
tion voltage  at  Ic  =  10  ma. 

fa  cut-off 

Base  resistance 

Collector  capacitance  at 
Vo  =  lOV 

Collector  breakdown  volt- 
age  

Punch  through  voltage 

llmitter  breakdown  voltage 

Ratio  of  alpha  at  le  =  10  /xa 
to  alpha  at  lo  =  1  ma .  . . 


Point  Contact 

Transistors 

(Low  Resistivity  Ge) 


1500  Ma 

0.8  V 
15  VIC 
SO  oJmis 

0.5  UUF 

40  V 
no  punch  through 
40  V 

3 


Junction  Triode  Transistors 


Ge  Grown 


5  fxa 

0.5  V 
2  mc 
500  ohms 

10  UUF 

100  V 
100  V 
5  V 

0.8 


Ge  Alloy 


5fxa 

0.05  V 
4  mc 
100  ohms 

20  UUF 

35  V 
35  V 
35  V 

0.8 


Si  Grown 


0.01  iM 
4  V 

4  mc 
500  ohms 

10  UUF 

100  V 
100  V 
1  V 

0.6 


TRANSISTOR    PULSE    REGENERATIVE    AMPLIFIERS  1089 

Again,  this  represents  wasted  power,  but  also  important  is  the  fact  that 
it  places  an  upper  limit  on  the  output  power  available  from  the  transistor. 
Hence,  it  is  desirable  to  have  as  low  a  saturation  voltage  as  possible. 
Alloy  junction  transistors  are  especially  good  in  this  respect. 

The  speed  with  which  a  transistor  changes  state  is  principally  a  func- 
tion of  the  alpha  cut-off  frequency  (which  should  be  high),  base  re- 
sistance, and  collector  capacitance  (both  of  which  should  be  low).*'* 
Both  the  rise  and  fall  times  of  the  transistor  response  are  greatly  in- 
fluenced by  the  associated  circuitry;  generally  a  blocking  oscillator 
circuit  yields  the  fastest  response. 

The  amount  of  effective  power  gain  available  from  a  regenerative 
amplifier  is  influenced  by  two  transistor  properties.  One  property  is  the 
breakdown  voltage,  which  may  be  the  collector  to  base  breakdown  volt- 
age or  the  collector  to  emitter  punch  through  voltage  (whichever  is 
lower).  This  limits  the  output  power  by  limiting  the  collector  supply 
voltage.  The  other  factor  is  the  variation  of  alpha  with  emitter  current, 
especially  at  low  emitter  currents.  The  minimum  average  emitter  current 
required  to  initiate  self-sustaining  positive  feedback  determines  the 
minimum  input  power.  Point  contact  units  are  especially  good  in  this 
respect  in  that  alpha  may  approach  ten  at  emitter  currents  as  low  as 
five  microamperes.  Junction  units  are  poor  since  alpha  generally  de- 
creases rapidly  at  emitter  currents  below  one  hundred  microamperes. 

Even  though  the  attainable  margins  against  false  operation  are  largely 
a  matter  of  circuit  design,  two  transistor  properties  occasionally  become 
important.  In  point  contact  units  trouble  with  lock  up  in  the  "on"  state 
may  occur  due  to  internal  base  resistance.  Although  this  property  of  base 
resistance  is  exploited  in  negative  resistance  feedback  circuits,  it  is  un- 
desirable in  circuits  where  the  feedback  is  obtained  by  external  coupling. 
In  grown  junction  units  the  emitter  to  base  reverse  breakdown  voltage 
may  limit  the  voltage  margin  against  false  triggering  caused  by  noise  or 
crosstalk.  Normally  it  is  desirable  to  have  a  one  or  two  volt  margin. 

From  the  above  discussion  it  can  be  seen  that  no  one  type  of  transistor 
is  outstanding  in  all  features.  The  choice  of  which  unit  to  use  in  a  specific 
amplifier  depends  upon  the  repetition  rate,  gain,  and  power  requirements 
desired  of  the  amplifier.  Although  the  point  contact  type  has  the  best 
overall  performance  of  the  types  shown  in  Table  I,  it  is  quite  possible 
that  new  types  (such  as  PNIP  or  diffused  triodes^^)  and  improved  de- 
signs of  the  present  types  will  change  the  picture. 

3.    FEEDBACK    CIRCUITS 

The  use  of  positive  feedback  in  an  amplifier  results  in  high  gain  and 
short  rise  time.  If  the  input  circuit  is  isolated  from  the  feedback  loop  by 


1090      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   SEPTEMBER    1956 

a  diode  or  large  resistor,  these  effects  are  enhanced  and  the  shape,  dura- 
tion, and  ampHtude  of  the  output  signal  become  independent  of  the 
input  signal.  These  results  are  possible  because  once  the  circuit  has  been 
triggered  and  the  feedback  loop  gain  is  greater  than  unity,  the  response 
proceeds  independently  of  input  conditions  and  is  determined  solely  by 
the  transistor  and  circuit  parameters. 

By  definition  a  regenerative  amplifier  must  have  positive  feedback 
sufficient  to  cause  instability  during  the  transition  period  between  the 
"off"  and  "on"  states.  When  investigating  various  circuits,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  eliminate  circuits  which  are  never  unstable  when  a  pulse  is 
applied  to  the  input  circuit.  If  the  circuit  is  unstable  under  either  of  the 
conditions  shown  in  Fig.  3,  sufficient  instability  is  possible.  However, 
if  the  circuit  is  stable,  linear,  and  either  the  small  signal  open  circuit 
voltage  gain  or  the  short  circuit  current  gain  is  less  than  unity  or  nega- 
tive at  all  frequencies,  it  is  impossible  to  have  instability.  These  latter 
conditions  for  instability  often  can  be  easily  checked  by  inspection  with- 
out tedious  computation  or  experimentation. 

This  use  of  positive  feedback  requires  that  attention  be  given  to  its 
control.  To  be  useful,  the  amplifier  must  be  stable  in  one  state  and  at 
least  quasi-stable  in  the  other  state.  The  change  from  instability  in  the 
transition  period  to  stability  in  the  end  states  is  accomplished  by  a  non- 
linear change  in  the  gain  or  impedance  of  some  element  in  the  feedback 
loop.  Usually  the  "off"  state  is  made  stable  by  causing  the  voltage  and 
current  conditions  in  the  input  circuit  to  reverse  bias  the  transistor  in- 
put. The  "on"  state  may  be  made  stable  (or  quasi-stable  when  there  are 
reactive  coupling  elements  in  the  loop)  in  several  ways.  For  example, 
the  transistor  may  be  permitted  to  saturate  when  the  desired  pulse 
voltage  is  reached;  a  "catching"  diode  may  be  used  to  clip  the  pulse 
voltage  at  an  appropriate  level;  or  a  current  switch  may  be  used  to 


FEEDBACK 


TRANSISTOR 


FEEDBACK 


TRANSISTOR 


Voc     ef'v 


iSC 


(a)    OPEN-CIRCUIT    LOOP    VOLTAGE  (W    SHORT-CIRCUIT    LOOP    CURRENT 

Fig.  3  —  A  check  for  instability. 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS  1091 

introduce  an  impedance  in  the  feedback  loop  at  a  predetermined  current 
level. 

The  degree  of  stability  of  the  amplifier  in  the  "on"  state  may  be 
thought  of  as  the  amount  of  power  required  to  initiate  the  transition  to 
the  "off"  state.  During  the  early  portion  of  the  output  pulse  duration 
the  degree  of  stability  should  be  large,  but  near  the  end  of  the  pulse 
duration  it  should  be  relatively  small  to  make  turn-off  easier.  Also,  the 
degree  of  stability  should  not  change  over  the  range  of  output  loading 
expected  for  the  amplifier  and  should  be  effected  without  excessive 
wastage  of  pulse  or  supply  power.  These  conditions  are  difficult  to  fulfill 
when  the  range  of  output  load  current  may  be  as  large  as  20  to  1 . 

Three  methods  of  obtaining  positive  feedback  in  transistor  circuits 
will  now  be  considered:  (a)  negative  resistance  feedback;  (b)  capacitor 
coupled  feedback;  and  (c)  transformer  coupled  feedback.  Of  these, 
transformer  coupled  feedback  appears  to  be  the  best  for  most  applica- 
tions. It  will  be  assumed  that  the  type  of  feedback  under  discussion  is 
the  dominant  or  only  type  present;  circuits  employing  more  than  one 
feedback  mechanism  generally  violate  the  premise  of  simple  circuitry 
and  will  not  be  discussed. 

3.1  Negative  Resistance  Feedback 

With  the  advent  of  point  contact  transistors  a  novel  form  of  negative 
resistance  was  offered  to  circuit  designers  for  use  in  positive  feedback 
applications.^  This  negative  resistance  property  occurs  when  the  current 
gain  of  a  transistor  is  greater  than  unity  and  the  emitter  and  base  small 
signal  currents  are  in  phase.*  At  first  sight  this  property  appears  to 
lead  to  attractively  simple  regenerative  amplifiers.  However,  as  systems 
become  more  complex  and,  consequently,  amplifier  requirements  more 
severe,  the  original  simplicity  often  is  lost  due  to  the  additional  circuitry 
required  to  control  the  negative  resistance.  An  example,  shown  in  Fig. 
4,  is  similar  to  a  regenerative  amplifier  described  by  J.  H.  Felker.^  The 
functional  circuits  are  indicated  by  dashed  outlines. 

This  amplifier  operates  at  a  one  megacycle  pulse  repetition  rate  with 
one-half  microsecond,  three  volt  pulses.  It  is  capable  of  driving  from  one 
to  six  similar  amplifiers.  The  output  pulse  rise  time  is  0.05  microsecond, 
the  average  dc  standby  power  is  33  milliwatts,  only  a  few  components 
operate  at  as  much  as  half  of  maximum  ratings,  and  the  supply  voltage 
marginsf  are  greater  than  ±15  per  cent.  Seven  hundred  of  these  ampli- 


*  Although  point  contact  transistors  are  noted  for  this  property,  certain  types 
of  junction  transistors  also  exhibit  it.  For  example,  see  Reference  7. 

t  Supply  voltage  margins,  the  amount  by  which  the  supply  voltage  may  be 


1092      THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL    JOUKXAL,    SEPTEMBER    1950 


fiers  operated  in  a  system  for  over  17,000  hours  with  a  faihire  rate  of] 
slightly  less  than  0.07  per  cent  per  thousand  hours. 

These  features,  however,  are  obtained  at  the  expense  of  relative  com-] 
plex  circuitry.  This  negative  resistance  type  of  high  speed  regenerative 
amplifier  has  the  following  inherent  limitations. 

1.  The  degree  of  stability  in  the  "on"  state  depends  critically  on  the 
collector  current.  In  the  example  a  dummy  load  must  be  strapped  in 
when  the  amplifier  drives  less  than  four  logic  circuits. 

2.  A  steering  diode  (D3)  and  a  timing  circuit  diode  (Dl)  have  critical 
reverse  recovery  time^  specifications.* 

3.  The  requirements  on  transistor  parameters  (primarily  the  dynamic 
alpha  versus  emitter  current  and  base  resistance  characteristics)  are 
relatively  critical. 

4.  A  relatively  large  amount  of  synchronizing  power  is  required. 

5.  With  transformer  output  coupling  (as  discussed  in  Section  5.1)  a 
large  amount  of  the  total  standby  power  is  absorbed  by  a  circuit  required 
to  protect  the  transistor  in  case  the  timing  voltage  fails  (In  the  example 
21  milliwatts,  or  64  per  cent  of  the  standby  power,  is  absorbed  by  R3.) 


INPUT    TRIGGER    CIRCUIT 
!+6V 


FEEDBACK 

CIRCUIT 


TRANSISTOR 


OUTPUTS 


20V 
PEAK-TO-PEAK 

1  MC 
SINE    WAVE 


SYNCHRONIZING 
CIRCUIT 


OUTPUT 

COUPLING 

CIRCUIT 


DUMMY 
LOAD 


Fig.  4  —  Negative  resistance  feedback  amplifier. 


varied  without  causing  an  operational  failure,  are  an  indication  of  the  sensitivity 
of  the  amplifier  to  changes  in  component  values. 

*  At  lower  pulse  repetition  rates  this  property  may  not  be  critical. 


TRANSISTOR    PULSE    REGENERATIVE    AMPLIFIERS 


1093 


The  use  of  an  inductor,  instead  of  a  resistance,  in  the  base  lead  does 
not  appear  to  mitigate  the  hmitations.    * 

3.2  Capacitor  Coupled  Feedback 

A  second  method  of  obtaining  positive  feedback  is  by  external  coupling 
through  a  capacitor  or  capacitor-resistor  network.  This  method  is  sel- 
dom used  for  the  principal  feedback  for  reasons  to  be  mentioned.  Oc- 
casionally, in  conjunction  with  some  other  type  of  feedback,  it  may  be 
used  to  provide  additional  feedback  during  the  rise  time  of  an  amplifier. 

Since  the  voltage  and  current  gain  of  a  capacitor  can  not  exceed 
unity,  the  open  circuit  voltage  gain  and  the  short  circuit  current  gain  of 
the  rest  of  the  loop  (Fig.  3)  must  be  greater  than  unity  for  instability. 
This  criterion  indicates  that  capacitor  feedback  is  limited  to  point  con- 
tact, or  other  transistors  with  an  alpha  greater  than  unity,  or  to  a  junc- 
tion transistor  in  the  common  emitter  configuration.* 

A  circuit  with  capacitor  feedback  around  a  short-circuit  stable  point 
contact  transistor  might  take  the  form  shown  in  Fig.  5.  Although  this 
type  of  circuit  has  the  merit  of  simplicity,  it  has  the  following  limitations : 

1.  The  initial  feedback  current  is  highly  dependent  upon  the  incre- 
mental output  load  impedance.  This  may  result  in  a  failure  to  trigger 
when  the  load  approximates  a  short  circuit,  as  in  the  case  of  diode  gates 
or  a  large  stray  capacitance. 

2.  The  degree  of  stability  in  the  ''on"  state  is  critically  dependent  on 
the  load  current  and  the  collector  supply  voltage.  Variations  in  either 
may  cause  a  foreshortened  output  pulse  or  require  an  excessive  timing 
signal  current  for  turn-off. 


FEEDBACK    CIRCUIT 
R 


V, \AAr 


TRIGGER  CURRENT 
FROM 
INPUT  CIRCUIT    ■ 


INPUT    TRIGGER 
CIRCUIT 


AAA- 


c 


SINE   WAVE 

TIMING 

VOLTAGE 


SYNCHRO- 
NIZING 
CIRCUIT 


n:i 


.^^^UTPU T  ^ 


TRANSISTOR  I 


OUTPUT    COUPLING 
CIRCUIT 


Fig.  5  —  RC  feedback  amplifier. 


An  inverting  transformer  is  necessary  with  the  junction  transistor. 


1094;      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOvJRNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

3.  The  necessity  of  a  feedback  circuit  time  constant  equal  to  or  shorter 
than  the  output  pulse  length  results  in  a  relatively  low  output  power 
efficiency. 

Due  to  the  above  considerations,  capacitor  feedback  appears  to  be  the 
least  attractive  type  of  feedback. 

3.3  Transformer  Coupled  Feedback 

A  transformer  appears  to  be  the  most  convenient  and  versatile  com- 
ponent for  feedback  coupHng  in  a  regenerative  amplifier.  The  pertienent 
features*  of  a  transformer  are: 

1.  Current  or  voltage  gain  (impedance  matching.)  This  feature  per- 
mits full  use  of  the  power  gain  of  the  transistor,  even  if  such  gain  be  in 
the  form  of  voltage  or  current  gain  only. 

2.  Bias  isolation  between  circuit  parts  and  the  possibility  of  supplying 
dc  voltage  bias  without  the  use  of  additional  elements. 

3.  Phase  inversion,  if  desired. 

All  of  these  featvu-es,  conveniently  combined  in  a  transformer,  provide 
great  design  freedom  to  meet  specified  circuit  objectives.  Since  positive 
feedback  is  possible  with  any  type  of  transistor  (with  power  gain,  of 
course),  the  choices  of  transistor  and  connection  are  determined  by  other 
circuit  requirements. 

The  use  of  transformer  coupled  feedback  yields  the  familiar  blocking 
oscillator  circuit.  An  important  feature  of  this  circuit  is  the  fast  rise  time 
that  is  obtainable.  Linvill  and  Mattson^  have  shown  that  a  junction  - 
transistor  with  an  alpha  cutoff  frequency  of  two  megacycles  may  exhibit 
a  rise  time  of  0.1  microsecond  in  an  unloaded  blocking  oscillator  with 
collector  to  emitter  coupling.  Fig.  6  (a).  It  can  be  shown  that  the  same 
response  may  be  expected  with  collector  to  base  or  base  to  emitter 
coupling,  provided  that  the  transformer  turns  ratio  is  modified.  Figs. 
6  (b)  and  6  (c) .  When  the  circuit  is  providing  useful  output  power  into  a 
load,  a  slightly  different  turns  ratio  would  be  used  for  optimum  rise  ■ 
time,  which  may  be  appreciably  slower  than  in  the  unloaded  case.  How- 
ever, it  should  be  noted  that  the  foregoing  gives  no  information  about  the 
initial  response  of  the  circuit  from  the  time  that  the  input  trigger  is 
applied  until  the  output  reaches  ten  per  cent  of  its  final  value.  In  some 
instances  this  initial  time,  which  is  a  complicated  function  of  the  trans- 
istor non-linearities,  may  be  comparable  to  the  output  rise  time. 

In  a  blocking  oscillator  circuit  with  a  fixed  output  load,  the  degree  of 
stability  in  the  "on"  state  decreases  with  time.  The  reason  is  that  the 


*  The  operation  of  a  transformer  over  the  non-linear  portion  of  its  magnetiza- 
tion characteristic  is  outside  the  scope  of  this  paper. 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS 


109 


O 


voltage  across  the  coupling  transformer,  which  is  approximately  constant 
during  the  pulse  duration,  causes  an  increasing  magnetizing  current  to 
be  subtracted  from  the  initial  feedback.  When  the  feedback  current  can 
no  longer  support  the  required  output  current,  the  circuit  turns  off.  In 
a  synchronized  amplifier  the  value  of  the  feedback  transformer  mutual 
inductance  may  be  specified  to  give  the  desired  degree  of  stability  at  the 
end  of  the  predetermined  pulse  length.  Thus,  the  least  stable  condition 
occurs  at  the  end  of  the  pulse  duration  and  is  under  the  circuit  designer's 
control.  At  other  times  during  the  pulse  duration  the  circuit  is  more 
stable,  which  reduces  the  possibility  of  premature  turn-off. 

Other  considerations,  such  as  stability  variations  with  output  current, 
power  dissipation,  and  output  voltage  regulation,  depend  upon  whether 
the  output  load  is  in  series  or  in  shunt  with  the  feedback  loop.  Therefore, 
these  considerations  are  discussed  in  connection  with  output  coupling  in 


n+i:  1 

(a)   COMMON   BASE 


(b)  COMMON  EMMITER 


n+1 

(C)  COMMON   COLLECTOR 


P  +  CVc 


te 


(d)  ASSUMED  TRANSISTOR 
EQUIVALENT  CIRCUIT 


Lg  =  LEAKAGE   INDUCTANCE   OF   TRANSFORMER 
n  =   TURNS   RATIO   FOR  COMMON   EMMITER  CONNECTION 

CCq  =   LOW   FREQUENCY  VALUE  OF  COMMON   BASE 
SHORT    CIRCUIT   CURRENT   GAIN 

CVq  =    CUTOFF    RADIAN    FREQUENCY   OF    Ot 


Fig.  6  —  Transformer  coupled  blocking  oscillator  circuits. 


109G      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Section  5.2.  For  constant  voltage,  variable  current  loads,  transformer 
coupled  feedback  with  the  output  load  in  series  with  the  feedback  loop 
results  in  low  power  dissipation,  relatively  small  degree  of  stability 
variations  versus  output  current  variations,  and  non-critical  com- 
ponents. The  possible  limitations  are  that  transformers  generally  are 
more  expensive  than  other  passive  components  and  are  not  as  readily 
available  in  a  variety  of  stock  values. 

4.    INPUT   TRIGGER   CIRCUITS 

The  primary  function  of  the  input  trigger  circuit  is  to  initiate  the  tran- 
sition from  the  "off"  to  the  "on"  state  when  there  is  an  input  signal.  At 
all  other  times  the  input  circuit  must  provide  a  threshold  or  margin 
against  false  triggering  due  to  noise  or  spurious  disturbances. 

Although  the  input  circuit  must  supply  sufficient  energy  to  establish 
regeneration,  it  is  unnecessary  and  undesirable  that  any  additional  energy 
be  supplied.  To  do  so  reduces  the  gain  of  the  amplifier,  since  gain  may  be 
defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  output  power  to  the  input  power  during  one 
cycle  of  operation.  Because  regeneration  makes  the  input  and  output 
power  independent  of  each  other,  any  reduction  in  input  power  results 
in  greater  amplifier  gain. 

In  an  amplifier  with  external  feedback  coupling  it  is  possible,  but  not 
always  practical,  to  have  the  input  circuit  trigger  the  transistor  at  the 
collector,  base,  or  emitter  terminal.  The  collector  terminal  seldom  is 
selected  because  then  the  input  circuit  must  supply  energy  to  the  output 
load  as  well  as  to  the  transistor.  Also,  the  base  is  usually  not  used  (ex- 
cept occasionally  with  negative  resistance  feedback)  because  extra  com- 
ponents are  required  to  steer  the  triggering  energy  into  the  transistor 
and  it  is  diffiult  to  apply  a  timing  signal.*  However,  the  following  dis- 
cussion and  the  dc  input  characteristic  of  Fig.  7  (a)  are  equally  valid  for 
triggering  at  the  base  or  emitter  terminal  of  junction  or  point  contact 
transistors  which  are  short-circuit  stable. 

One  of  the  simplest  types  of  triggering  circuits  is  shown  in  Fig.  7  (b). 
The  voltage  and  current  increments  assumed  necessary  to  initiate  regen- 
eration are  designated  Vt  and  /,  .  Therefore,  the  required  input  signal 
voltage  Vs  and  current  /«  are : 

Vs  ^  V,  +  IJix  (1) 

^        Ri\  ,   Vt  ,    Fi  -  V2 


'■^'■['+m)  +  w.  +  '^^  '■■'^ 


*  Also,  for  junction  tninsistors,  about  twice  as  much  energy  is  required  to  trig- 
ger at  the  base  as  at  the  emitter.' 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS 


1097 


The  purpose  of  diode  Di  is  to  provide  a  low  impedance  current  threshold, 
the  amount  of  current  given  by  the  last  term  of  (2) .  This  type  of  thresh- 
old is  especially  effective  for  preventing  false  operation  from  electro- 
statically induced  crosstalk.  Also,  it  allows  a  faster  rate  of  discharge  of 
stray  capacity  on  the  input  terminal  at  the  end  of  the  input  pulse  period. 
Although  the  circuit  of  Fig.  7  (b)  is  attractively  simple,  it  is  undesir- 
ably sensitive  to  variations  in  signal  voltage.  An  increase  in  the  input 
pulse  voltage  causes  excessive  triggering  current  and  a  decrease  may 
easily  result  in  failure  to  trigger.  Since  the  circuit  must  be  designed  to 
operate  reliably  with  the  smallest  expected  input  pulse,  it  is  wasteful  of 
input  power  with  the  average  amplitude  of  input  pulse. 


'1 


h-it 

A 

f 

^1 

— V, 

(a)    TRANSISTOR    INPUT    CHARACTERISTIC 


.Sr\  J, 


± 


D1 


I 

V, 


R1 


TRIGGER 
CURRENT 


R2 


(b) 


SIMPLE    INPUT    CIRCUIT 


V^ 


,1^ 


V, 


D2 


R2 


I+V3 


'R3 


It 


TRIGGER 
CURRENT 


V 


'  r'l 

A 

1 

^ 

s,    T- 

/ 

_j 

V, 

(C)    ONE    TERMINAL    AND-TYPE    INPUT    CIRCUIT 


Fig,  7  —  Input  trigger  circuits. 


1098      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

The  single  terminal  AND-type  circuit^  ■  ^°  Fig.  7  (c)  has  the  desirable 
characteristics  of  the  previous  circuit,  and  is  relatively  insensitive  to 
input  signal  variations.  In  this  circuit  the  input  pulse  switches  the  cur- 
rent through  R3  into  the  transistor  input  and  then  encounters  the  rela- 
tively high  resistance  R2,  as  compared  to  the  parallel  resistance  of  R2 
and  El  in  Fig.  7  (b).  The  blocking  action  of  D2  thus  reduces  variations  in 
the  input  signal  current.  However,  R2,  R3,  F3  and  V2  cannot  be  increased 
without  limit  to  reduce  the  variations;  the  dc  power  dissipated  in  R2 
and  R3  would  become  excessive. 

Another  advantage  of  the  AND-type  circuit  is  that  several  inputs  may 
be  paralleled  with  a  common  R3  to  provide  an  AND  logic  function  as 
well  as  an  input  trigger  function.  This  feature,  when  desired,  saves  com- 
ponents and  does  not  reduce  the  gain  of  the  amplifier. 

When  both  the  input  circuit  and  the  feedback  circuit  terminate  at  the 
same  transistor  input  terminal,  as  is  usually  the  case,  some  additional 
components  are  generally  required  to  prevent  one  circuit  from  shunting 
the  other  circuit.  To  steer  the  trigger  current  into  the  transistor,  a  diode 
may  be  placed  in  the  feedback  path  so  that  the  diode  is  reverse  biased 
except  when  there  is  feedback  current.  Similarly,  a  diode  or  a  resistor 
may  be  placed  in  the  input  circuit  so  as  to  prevent  the  feedback  current 
from  flowing  into  the  input  circuit.* 

Although  the  discussion  has  assumed  positive  polarity  input  pulses, 
the  remarks  apply  equally  well  to  negative  pulses  if  the  polarity  of  the 
diodes  and  the  supply  voltages  are  reversed. 

It  is  recognized  that  the  preceding  remarks  assume  that  the  minimum 
triggering  energy  is  known  and  that  a  step  function  of  current  or  voltage 
is  the  optimum  form  of  the  triggering  energy.  Actually,  until  a  study  is 
made  of  the  circuit  and  transistor  parameters  (including  the  non-linear 
aspects)  that  affect  the  initial  triggering  before  the  feedback  is  estab- 
lished, the  design  of  an  optimum  input  trigger  circuit  will  remain  an 
experimental  art.  Experience  with  the  AND-type  input  circuit  has  indi- 
cated that  appreciably  more  current  is  required  to  trigger  junction  luiits 
than  point  contact  units. 

5.    OUTPUT   COUPLING   CIRCUITS 

In  addition  to  the  obvious  function  of  efficient  power  transfer  from 
the  amplifier  to  a  load,  the  output  coupling  circuit  is  a  convenient  point 
at  which  to  perform  other  functions,  as  for  example,  dc  level  restoration 


i 


*  This  precaution  is  not  necessary  if  the  transistor  input  exhibits  appreciablr 
negative  resistance. 


TRANSISTOR    PULSE    REGENERATIVE    AMPLIFIERS 


1099 


[and  pulse  inversion.  In  a  system  of  logic  circuits  interspersed  with  ampli- 
fiers at  regular  intervals,  it  is  apparent  that  the  dc  level  at  similar  points, 
such  as  the  outputs  of  the  amplifiers,  must  be  identical  if  the  amplifiers 
are  to  be  interchangeable.  Without  some  circuit  or  element  to  restore  the 
dc  level,  the  levels  along  the  transmission  path  will  monotonically  de- 
crease* due  to  the  dc  voltage  loss  through  the  logic  circuits  and  across 
the  transistor  in  the  amplifier.  The  output  circuit  is  one  point  where 
restoration  of  the  dc  level  may  be  readily  combined  with  other  functions.! 
In  the  following  two  sections  three  methods  of  output  coupling  are 
discussed  and  the  interaction  between  the  output  and  feedback  circuits 
is  considered. 

5.1  Output  Coupling  Elements 

Three  types  of  coupling  circuits  are  RC,  transformer,  and  diode  cou- 
pling. Each  of  these  methods  permits  the  dc  level  of  the  signal  pulses  to  be 
corrected  to  a  predetermined  level.  However,  the  restoration,!  efl&ciency, 
and  versatility  characteristics  of  each  circuit  are  quite  different. 

Although  RC  coupling  is  common  in  linear  amplifiers,  it  is  seldom  used 
in  transistor  pulse  amplifiers  that  operate  at  duty  cycles  near  50  per 
cent.  The  reason  is  that  the  time  constants  encountered  do  not  permit 
both  proper  restoration  of  the  capacitor  and  high  efficiency  of  the  output 
circuit.  As  indicated  in  Fig.  8  (a),  the  transistor  is  a  low  impedance  in 


TRANSISTOR 


TRANSISTOR 


ON 


R1  yOFF 

(SMALL) 

".RS 


-—\ 


I 


>(LARGE) 


■R3 


(a)    RC    COUPLING 


(b) 


TRANSFORMER  COUPLING 


Fig.  8  —  Reactive  output  coupling  circuits. 


*  Decrease  for  positive  pulses;  increase  for  negative  pulses. 

t  An  exception,  to  be  discussed,  is  diode  output  coupling  where  it  is  occasionally 
more  convenient  to  correct  the  dc  level  in  the  input  of  the  logic  circuits  or  the 
amplifier. 

t  This  refers  to  restoration  of  a  reactive  element  (i.e.,  the  return  to  a  quiescent 
state)  and  is  not  to  be  confused  with  restoration  of  the  dc  level  of  a  circuit. 


llOO      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

the  "on"  state  and  a  high  impedance  in  the  "off"  state.  Since  C  must  be 
relatively  large  to  make  the  voltage  drop  across  it  small  during  the  pulse 
duration,  R3  must  be  equal  to  or  smaller  than  Rl  for  satisfactory  restora- 
tion (50%  duty  cycle  assumed).  But  then  the  current  transmission 
efficiency  of  the  coupling  network  is  less  than  50  per  cent  because  gener- 
ally Rl  is  smaller  than  the  input  resistance  of  the  driven  circuits  during 
the  pulse  duration.  Unless  the  pulse  length  is  only  a  small  fraction  of  the 
pulse  repetition  period,  it  is  seldom  possible  to  effect  a  suitable  compro- 
mise. Also,  it  might  be  noted  that  variations  of  Ico  current,  which  flows 
through  R3,  cause  variations  in  the  output  pulse  amplitude.  Finally  it 
is  not  possible  to  obtain  pulse  inversion. 

A  transformer  coupled  circuit.  Fig.  8  (b),  works  efficiently  with  a 
transistor.  Diode  D2  isolates  the  transformer  from  the  load  and  inter- 
lead  stray  capacitance  during  the  interdigit  period*  so  that  the  restora- 
tion time  of  the  transformer  is  controlled  by  the  value  of  R3.  The  restora- 
tion time  is  approximately  proportional  to  the  mutual  inductance  divided 
by  the  total  shunting  resistance.  Diode  Dl  prevents  R3  from  shunting 
down  the  output  during  the  pulse  duration,  thus  permitting  high  output 
efficiency  and  proper  restoration. f 

As  noted  in  Section  2,  the  maximum  output  power  from  the  transistor 
is  determined  by  the  maximum  collector  voltage  (as  set  by  breakdown 
or  punch-through)  and  the  maximum  collector  current  consistent  with 
the  permissible  dissipation  in  the  transistor.  Usually  this  maximum 
voltage  exceeds  the  desired  amplifier  output  voltage  and,  occasionally, 
the  maximum  collector  current  is  insufficient;  in  such  instances  a  voltage 
step  down  is  desirable.  When  the  transistor  is  not  required  to  operate  at 
maximum  power  dissipation,  it  often  is  advantageous  to  balance  the 
"off"  and  "on"  power  dissipation.  An  increase  in  the  collector  supply 
voltage  increases  the  "off"  power  and  decreases  the  "on"  power  (by 
decreasing  the  required  collector  current  for  the  same  output  power). 
Thus  the  collector  voltage  may  be  adjusted  to  give  the  lowest  total  power 
dissipation  consistent  with  the  average  duty  cycle  of  the  amplifier.  The 
transformer  turns  ratio  is  specified  to  match  the  optimum  collector 
voltage  to  the  desired  output  voltage.  Furthermore,  Ico  variations  have 
negligible  effect  on  the  output  voltage  amplitude  and  pulse  inversion  (if 
desired,  for  example,  for  inhibition)  is  possible.  For  these  reasons  trans- 
former coupling  appears  to  give  optimimi  output  coupling  performance. 

*  The  minimum  time  interval  between  the  end  of  one  pulse  and  the  beginning 
of  a  succeeding  pulse;  for  a  50  per  cent  duty  cycle  the  interdigit  period  is  equal  to 
the  pulse  duration. 

t  Occasionally  it  is  possible  to  specify  the  collector  impedance,  the  transformer 
losses,  and  the  reverse  impedance  of  D2  so  that  Dl  and  R3  are  not  necessary. 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE    AMPLIFIERS 


1101 


A  third  method  of  couphng,  which  is  attractive  for  systems  using  only 
AND-  and  OR -type  logic,  utilizes  the  reverse  characteristic  of  a  break- 
down diode,  Fig.  9  (a).  The  interesting  feature  of  this  diode  is  the  sharp 
transition  between  the  high  and  low  incremental  resistance  regions  of  the 
reverse  characteristic.  With  this  diode  it  is  possible  to  shift  dc  levels  by 
an  amount  ec^ual  to  the  rcA^erse  breakdown  voltage  of  the  diode,  as  indi- 
cated in  Fig.  9  (b).  In  the  ciuiescent  state  D2  operates  in  the  breakdown 
region  and  Dl  serves  to  clamp  the  collector  voltage  at  —  F3  ;  during  the 
pulse  duration  D2  operates  in  the  high  resistance  portion  of  its  reverse 
characteristic.  If  the  driven  circuit  has  a  ^'oltage  threshold,  like  the 
transistor  threshold  in  Fig.  7  (a),  less  than  —  F^  +  Vb  +  Vs  and  Vs 
<|Fb|,  the  circuit  operates  like  a  normal  AND-type  circuit  except  for 
the  dc  level  change.  For  this  reason  it  is  convenient  with  AND-OR  logic 
circuits  to  include  only  Dl  and  R2  in  the  output  circuit  of  the  amplifier 
and  use  D2  and  Rl  as  the  AXD  input  elements  in  the  logic  circuits. 

The  principal  advantages  of  diode  coupling  are  simplicity  and  the 
lack  of  an  energy  storage  element.  The  limitations  are  that  there  is  no 
opportunity  to  match  transistor  and  output  conditions,  variations  in 


-V 


♦--BREAKDOWN    REGION -*• 

'                           +v- 

RRFAKDOWN                                         ^| 

VOLTAGE                                       3W 
Vb                                                   I 

1      ; 

' 

(a)    BREAKDOWN    DIODE 

V-I    CHARACTERISTIC 


-V. 


If^ 


Dl 


BREAKDOWN 
DIODE  N 
I 

W 


l+v, 


R1 


-V3) 


OUTPUT 


D2 


(-V3  +  VB) 


R2 


-V3        -V2 

(b)     COUPLING     CIRCUIT     UTILIZING 
A    BREAKDOWN    DIODE 


Fig.  9  —  Direct  output  coupling  circuit. 


1102      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

diode  breakdown  voltage  reduce  amplifier  margins,  and  pulse  inversion 
is  not  possible.  For  these  reasons  diode  coupling  has  limited  utility,  but 
is  attractive  for  some  applications. 

5.2  Connection  of  Output  and  Feedback  Circuits 

The  performance  of  the  amplifier  is  greatly  affected  by  the  method  used 
to  connect  the  output  circuit  and  the  feedback  circuit  together  at  the  | 
output  of  the  transistor.  Should  these  two  circuits  be  connected  in  a 
shunt  or  a  series  fashion?  Performance  features,  such  as  rise  time,  suf- 
ficient output  voltage,  degree  of  stabihty  versus  load  current  variations, 
and  power  dissipation  directly  depend  upon  this  choice.  With  transformer 
output  coupling,  the  choice  always  exists;  with  other  types  of  output 
coupling  the  choice  may  or  may  not  exist,  depending  upon  the  type  of 
feedback  coupling.  The  following  discussion  is  in  terms  of  transformer 
coupled  output  and  feedback  circuits  and  the  general  conclusions  may 
be  extended  to  other  cases. 


Y\    .    t-- 


OUTPUT    OF 
AMPLIFIER 


_!_ 


■ 

LOGIC    CIRCUIT 

. 

Vs 

1 

NUMBER  1 

, 

i    '^ 

LOGIC    CIRCUIT 

Vs 

NUMBER  n 

(a)    CONNECTION     OF    AMPLIFIER    LOAD 


■nl. 


I 
T 


(b)    V-I    CHARACTERISTIC    OF    AMPLIFIER    LOAD 

Fig.  10  —  Output  load  characteristic. 


TRANSISTOR    PULSE    REGENERATIVE    AMPLIFIERS 


1103 


The  principal  factor  that  influences  the  choice  of  the  output-feedback 
connection  is  the  nature  of  the  output  load  of  the  ampHfier.  In  the 
majority  of  computer  and  switching  systems  the  ampUfier  must  drive  a 
multiplicity  of  paralleled  load  circuits,  as  indicated  in  Fig.  10  (a).  The 
input  characteristic  of  each  load  circuit  is  assumed  to  be  of  the  threshold 
type,  like  the  AND-type  input  characteristic  of  Fig.  7  (c),  which  results 
in  the  amplifier  load  characteristic  of  Fig.  10  (b).  During  the  initial  por- 
tion of  the  rise  time  of  the  output  pulse  the  incremental  impedance 
is  almost  zero  and  during  the  remainder  of  the  pulse  duration  it  is  rela- 
tively large.  Due  to  the  voltage  threshold  nature  of  the  load,  the  ampli- 
fier load  variations  are  current  variations  at  a  constant  voltage.  The 
minimum  current  is  encountered  in  the  system  position  where  the  ampli- 
fier drives  the  smallest  number  of  logic  circuits,  often  a  single  logic  cir- 
cuit; the  maximum  current  is  hmited  by  the  maximum  output  power  of 
the  amplifier.  Although  a  desirable  ratio  of  maximum  to  minimum  cur- 
rent may  be  as  high  as  20 : 1 ,  the  amplifier  is  expected  to  exhibit  optimum 
performance  at  any  load  current  within  this  range. 

The  shunt  connection  of  the  output  and  feedback  circuits  is  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  11.12  Windings  l:wi  constitute  the  feedback  couphng  and 
1 :  Hi  the  output  coupling.  The  two  circuits  shunt  each  other  in  the  sense 
that  the  ratio  of  the  feedback  to  the  output  current  is  determined  by  the 
ratio  of  the  impedance  of  these  circuits  as  modified  by  the  turns  ratio 
of  the  transformer. 


INPUT    TRIGGER    CIRCUIT 


-TL 


OUTPUT 


SINE   WAVE 
TIMING  VOLTAGE 


SYNCHRONIZING    CIRCUIT 


OUTPUT 
COUPLING    CIRCUIT 


Fig.  11  —  Shunt  connection  of  output  and  feedback. 


1104      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

There  are  two  limitations  associated  with  this  output-feedback  con- 
nection. In  the  first  place  there  is  the  possibility  of  insufficient  output 
voltage,  slow  rise  time,  or  complete  faihu'e  of  regeneration.  This  is 
caused  b}'  the  shunt  effect  of  the  output  load  which  places  an  almost  zero 
initial  incremental  impedance  across  the  feedback  path.  In  order  to 
overcome  this  limitation  a  current  switch  (R5  and  DO  in  Fig.  11)  is  used 
to  obtain  a  low  initial  feedback  impedance  and  the  output  diode  (D4) 
is  reverse  biased  so  that  the  initial  load  impedance  is  large.  The  price 
paid  is  the  undesirable  power  dissipation  in  the  current  switch.  ]\Iore- 
over,  stray  capacity  across  the  output  terminal  or  a  load  current  that 
exceeds  the  design  value  may  still  result  in  a  long  rise  time,  low  output 
voltage,  or  regeneration  failure. 

The  series  connection  of  the  output  and  feedback  circuits  is  shown  in 
Fig.  12.  In  this  connection  the  output  load  is  in  series  with  the  feedback 
loop.  Thus,  the  transistor  output  current,  feedback  current,  and  output 
load  current  are  all  proportional  to  each  other.  This  situation  assures 
regeneration  regardless  of  output  load  current  variations. 

The  regeneration  cycle  of  the  series  type  amplifier  is  as  follows.  In 
the  quiescent  state  diode  D2  is  reverse  biased  by  VI  to  prevent  false 
triggering.  After  the  arrival  of  an  input  signal,  the  timing  signal  voltage 
goes  positive  and  steers  the  trigger  current  into  the  transistor.  Xo 


TRIGGER 
CURRENT 


R1 


INPUT   TRIGGER 
CIRCUIT 


FEEDBACK    CIRCUIT 

D2 

1^ 


Dt 


TIMING 
SIGNAL 


SYNCHRONIZING 
CIRCUIT 


Lp 


TRANSISTOR 


D6 


I 
I 
I 
I 

V4 


»l   t 


_rL 


OUTPUT 


I    I     OUTPUT  COUPLING 


Fig.  12  —  Series  connection  of  output  and  feedback. 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE   REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS  1105 

appreciable  output  current  flows  until  the  voltage  across  transformer  Tl 
is  sufficient  to  forward  bias  diode  D2.  Then  both  the  feedback  and  output 
current  build  up  simultaneously  and  rapidly  since  the  turns  ratio  l:ni 
of  Tl  is  selected  to  give  a  feedback  loop  gain  greater  than  unity.  When 
the  sum  of  the  voltages  across  the  primaries  of  the  feedback  and  output 
transformers  almost  equals  the  collector  supply  voltage,  the  transistor 
saturates  and  stabilizes  the  feedback  loop.  At  the  end  of  the  pulse  dura- 
tion the  timing  signal  voltage  goes  negative  and  robs  current  from  the 
feedback  loop,  thus  forcing  the  transistor  out  of  saturation  and  causing 
the  amphfier  to  turn  off. 

Because  the  feedback  current  is  proportional  to  the  output  current 
during  the  rise  time,  the  amplifier  can  deliver  any  value  of  load  current 
up  to  the  current  corresponding  to  the  maximum  allowable  collector 
current.  Also,  assuming  that  the  leakage  inductances  of  the  transformers 
are  small,  a  large  stray  capacitance  across  the  output  terminal  does  not 
appreciably  degrade  the  rise  time.  Since  a  current  switch  is  not  neces- 
sary, the  standby  power  dissipation  in  the  feedback  loop  is  negligible. 
These  are  the  outstanding  features  of  the  series  connection. 

Two  important  performance  considerations  of  the  series  type  amplifier 
are  the  change  in  the  degree  of  stability  versus  load  current  variations 
and  the  action  of  the  amplifier  when  the  timing  signal  fails.  Both  of  these 
items  may  be  controlled  by  the  selection  of  suitable  values  for  the  turns 
ratio  and  the  primary  inductance  of  the  feedback  and  output  transform- 
ers.* In  order  to  prevent  burnout  of  the  transistor  in  the  event  that  the 
timing  signal  fails,  the  amount  of  excess  feedback  current  must  decrease 
during  the  pulse  duration.  Due  to  the  low  impedance  of  the  feedback 
loop,  this  condition  may  be  approximately f  stated  in  terms  of  the  pri- 
mary inductances  as: 


Vi 
niLi 


> 


a 


(3) 


where  Vsat  is  the  collector  saturation  voltage  and  Li  and  L2  are  the 
primary  inductances  of  Ti  and  T2  respectively. 

The  degree  of  stability  in  the  series  amplifier  at  the  end  of  the  pulse 
duration  is  proportional  to  the  output  load  current.  This  situation  may 
be  seen  more  clearly  if  a  "catching"  diode  (D6  in  Fig.  12)  is  added  to  the 


*  If  the  transistor  is  not  short  circuit  stable,  it  is  also  usually  necessary  to 
use  a  small  resistance  in  series  with  the  emitter. 

t  The  principal  approximation  is  that  alpha  is  constant  versus  collector  current. 
The  value  of  alpha  at  the  end  of  the  pulse  duration  is  a  conservative  value. 


1106      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

circuit  to  prevent  saturation  in  the  transistor,*  Because  the  feedback 
loop  gain,  as  determined  by  the  alpha  of  the  transistor  and  the  turns 
ratio  111 ,  must  be  greater  than  unity  for  regeneration  reasons,  there  will 
be  current  flow  through  D6  during  the  pulse  duration.  This  current  is 
proportional  to  the  degree  of  stability.  An  increase  Aiout  in  the  output 
current  causes  an  increase  of 

Az,  =  ^^^^'-^  (1) 

in  the  collector  current.  Therefore,  the  current  in  D6  increases  by  an 
amount  equal  to 


AZdb  = 


^-1 

\_ni 


riiAiont  (5) 


This  variation  in  the  degree  of  stability  may  be  reduced  by  selecting 
a/rii  close  to  unity  and  reducing  no .  However,  since  it  is  desirable  to 
have  a/rii  much  larger  than  unity  for  short  rise  time  and  since  any  reduc- 
tion in  n2  increases  the  Ico  standby  power,  f  a  compromise  is  necessary. 

6.    SYNCHRONIZING    CIRCUITS 

The  majority  of  modern  digital  data  processing  systems  employ  coin- 
cidence gate  circuits  to  perform  the  logical  functions.  In  order  to  insure 
that  digit  pulses  will  coincide  at  the  inputs  to  the  logic  circuits,  it  is  con- 
venient to  synchronize  the  amplifiers.  Usually  a  master  oscillator,  or 
"clock,"  produces  the  timing  signals  that  are  distributed  to  the  ampli- 
fiers. The  function  of  the  synchronizing  circuit  in  the  amplifier  is  to  turn 
on  and  to  turn  off  the  amplifier  at  predetermined  time  intervals  in  re- 
sponse to  the  clock  signal. 

In  a  regenerative  amplifier  there  is  always  a  small  delay  from  the  time 
triggering  commences  until  the  full  output  pulse  is  developed.  Then 
there  are  variations  in  the  transmission  time  to  other  amplifiers.  For 
these  reasons  the  clock  signal  must  lag  the  input  signal  to  the  amplifier 
in  order  to  maintain  control  of  turn-on  and  to  obtain  a  uniform  pulse 
length  from  all  amplifiers.  Generally  the  time  lag  is  one-fourth  of  the 


*  In  an  actual  amplifier  D6  is  not  required  if  the  transistor  saturation  voltage 
is  relatively  constant  versus  collector  current  and  the  pulse  fall  time  is  not  ad- 
versely affected  by  minority  carrier  storage  in  the  transistor.  Often  the  inductive 
"kick"  of  the  transformers  and  the  regenerative  feedback  are  sufficient  to  make 
the  minority  carrier  storage  effect  negligible.  If  D6  is  used,  its  reverse  recovery 
time  may  adversely  affect  the  pulse  fall  time,  thus  nullifying  its  usefulness. 

t  The  Ico  standby  power  is  proportional  to  V2  ,  which,  for  a  given  output  volt- 
age, is  inversely  proportional  to  no  . 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS  1107 

repetition  period  and,  in  such  a  case,  the  clock  signal  is  made  available 
in  four  phases. 

Although  the  clock  signal  may  have  any  one  of  a  number  of  forms,  a 
sine  or  a  square  wave  are  the  most  common  forms.  Usually  a  sine  wave 
is  preferred  because  it  is  simpler  to  distribute  to  a  large  number  of 
amplifiers.  Exceptions  occur  in  cases  where  exceptionally  precise  timing 
is  necessary,  or  the  use  of  a  square  wave  requires  considerably  less  clock 
power.  In  the  following  discussion  of  where  to  synchronize,  a  square  wave 
will  do  as  well  or  better  than  the  assumed  sine  wave.  With  either  signal 
it  is  desirable  to  keep  the  clock  power  to  a  minimum. 

If  the  synchronizing  circuit  is  to  be  effective,  the  clock  signal  must  be 
capable  of  accomplishing  the  following  actions: 

a.  It  must  be  able  to  hold  the  transistor  in  the  "off"  state  in  the  pres- 
ence of  trigger  current  in  order  to  control  turn-on. 

b.  At  the  turn-on  time  it  must  rapidly  inject  the  trigger  current  into 
the  transistor. 

c.  At  the  turn-off  time  it  must  alter  the  conditions  in  the  feedback 
loop  in  such  a  manner  that  the  transistor  turns  off  promptly. 

In  other  words  the  synchronizing  circuit  must  act  like  an  inhibit  logic 
circuit  with  the  clock  signal  appearing  as  the  inhibit  signal  during  the 
interdigital  period. 

It  is  recognized  that  there  are  many  amplifier  configurations  and 
several  ways  to  synchronize  each  configuration.  Generally  it  is  preferable 
to  synchronize  at  only  one  input  terminal  of  the  transistor  or  at  only  one 
point  in  the  feedback  circuit.  A  relatively  complete  discussion  can  be 
given  with  the  aid  of  the  following  four  examples. 

A  circuit  that  employs  negative  resistance  feedback,  such  as  in  Fig.  4, 
requires  a  relatively  large  amount  of  clock  power  for  synchronization. 
Because  a  capacitor  (C2)  is  required  on  the  emitter  foi  regeneration, ^ 
the  clock  signal  must  be  applied  to  the  base  of  the  transistor  to  control 
turn-on  accurately.  As  far  as  turn-off  is  concerned,  another  clock  signal 
might  be  applied  to  the  emitter  or  to  the  current  gate  in  the  feedback 
circuit.  However,  this  would  result  in  additional  components,  a  second 
clock  signal  180°  out  of  phase  with  the  base  clock  signal,  and  approxi- 
mately the  same  required  clock  power  as  if  the  base  clock  signal  alone 
were  used.  Turn-off  at  the  emitter  is  impractical  due  to  the  negative  re- 
sistance characteristic.  The  power  that  the  clock  signal  on  the  base  must 
furnish  is  made  up  of  two  parts.  One  part  is  the  average  standby  power 
that  is  absorbed  every  time  the  clock  voltage  is  positive.  It  is  composed 
of  the  Ico  power  supplied  to  the  transistor  plus  the  power  dissipated  in 
in  Rl  and  R2.  R2  and  D2  serve  to  reduce  the  clock  current  in  Rl  and 


1108      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

R2,  but  the  maximum  value  of  R2  is  limited  by  stray  capacitance  from 
the  transistor  base  to  ground.*  The  average  clock  standby  power  for 
this  circuit  (with  a  10  volt  peak  clock  voltage)  is  approximately  13  milli- 
watts. The  second  part  of  the  clock  power  occurs  at  turn-off  when  the 
clock  must  supply  approximately  the  full  "on"  state  collector  current. 
In  this  design  the  clock  supplies  about  20  milliamperes  of  current  for  0.1 
microsecond  at  voltages  up  to  about  6  volts  peak  before  the  transistor 
turns  off.  Therefore,  a  negative  resistance  feedback  circuit  usually  re- 
quires a  relatively  large  amount  of  standby  clock  power  continuously 
and  a  high  peak  clock  power  at  turn-off.  Also  it  should  be  noted  that 
diode  Dl  must  have  a  short  reverse  recovery  time  in  order  to  prevent 
false  triggering  during  the  negative  portion  of  the  clock  cycle. 

A  second  example  of  synchronization  is  shown  in  Fig.  11.  Here  the 
clock  signal  is  introduced  in  the  feedback  circuit  to  control  turn-off.  It 
is  also  applied  to  R2  in  the  input  circuit  so  as  to  control  turn-on.  In  this 
circuit  most  of  the  clock  power  is  dissipated  in  R5  and  R6  when  the  clock 
voltage  is  positive  during  the  output  pulse  time  slot  (whether  or  not  an 
output  pulse  is  produced).  Necessarily,  this  power  is  relatively  large  be- 
cause the  clock  must  supply  the  full  amount  of  feedback  current.  Also, 
it  is  necessary  to  clip  the  positive  peak  of  the  clock  voltage  in  order  to 
prevent  false  triggering  via  R2  when  there  is  no  input  pulse.  A  square 
wave  clock  signal  would  eliminate  the  need  for  R6  and  D7,  but  would 
not  change  the  power  in  R5.  The  average  clock  power  in  a  typical  circuit 
of  this  type  is  approximately  20  milliwatts,  which  is  relatively  large.  The 
principal  advantage  of  this  method  is  that  diode  reverse  recovery  time 
is  not  a  problem. 

A  third  method  of  synchronization  is  to  apply  a  square  wave  clock 
signal  (a  sine  wave  is  not  suitable  in  this  case)  between  the  base  of  the 
transistor  and  ground  (for  example,  assume  in  Fig.  11  that  R2  and 
R5  are  returned  directly  to  V6  and  that  the  base  of  the  transistor  is 
the  clock  terminal  instead  of  ground).  Before  turn-on  the  clock  voltage 
must  be  more  positive  than  the  trigger  voltage  on  the  emitter.  At  turn- 
on  the  clock  voltage  drops  rapidly  to  ground  potential  and  triggering 
takes  place.  During  the  pulse  duration  the  base  current  of  the  transistor 
is  supplied  by  the  clock  source.  At  turn-off  the  clock  voltage  must  rise 
rapidly  several  volts  until  D6  conducts  and  robs  current  from  the  feed- 
back loop.  The  clock  power  required  by  this  method  is  relatively  large 
(order  of  20  milliwatts)  for  point  contact  transistors  because  the  base 
current  of  such  units  is  large.  In  a  junction  transistor  with  alpha  close 

*  The  capacitance  causes  the  base  voltage  to  lag  the  clock  voltage  at  turn-on 
if  R2  is  large,  which  degrades  the  timing. 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS  1109 

to  unity  the  base  current  is  small  and  the  required  clock  power  may  be 
as  low  as  3  milliwatts.  However,  it  should  be  noted  that  this  method  of 
synchronization  applies  only  to  amplifiers  with  a  gated  feedback  circuit 
(such  as  R5  and  D6  in  Fig.  11).  In  other  circuits  (Fig.  12,  for  example), 
a  clock  voltage  applied  to  the  base  terminal  of  the  transistor  may  never 
be  able  to  turn  off  the  transistor  (the  feedback  current  may  actually 
increase  instead  of  decrease).  Thus,  this  method  of  synchronization  is 
limited  and  is  a  low  power  method  only  when  used  with  junction  tran- 
sistors. 

A  fourth  synchronization  method,  which  avoids  the  limitations  cited 
in  the  previous  examples,  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  12.  The  timing  circuit 
is  simply  diode  Dl.  The  operation  of  the  circuit,  which  is  like  an  inhibit 
logic  circuit,  is  as  follows.  When  trigger  current  commences,  the  clock 
voltage  is  negative  and  Dl  conducts  the  trigger  current  away  from  the 
emitter  terminal.  As  the  clock  voltage  rises  positiveward,  the  emitter 
voltage  follows  until  it  reaches  the  threshold  voltage  of  the  transistor, 
usually  ground  potential.  Then  the  trigger  current  flows  into  the  tran- 
sistor which  turns  on.  As  the  clock  voltage  continues  positiveward  the 
emitter  conduction  clamps  the  emitter  voltage  so  that  Dl  opens  and  the 
clock  does  not  shunt  the  feedback  path  during  the  pulse  duration.  At  the 
end  of  the  pulse  duration  the  clock  voltage  goes  negativeward  through 
ground  potential  and  Dl  becomes  conducting.  This  action  robs  current 
from  the  feedback  loop,  thus  causing  the  transistor  to  turn  off.  If  no 
input  pulse  is  present,  Dl  is  always  non-conducting  and  any  small  re- 
verse leakage  current  is  drained  off  through  El  (which  is  returned  to 
voltage  VI). 

Because  diode  Dl  is  always  non-conducting  when  no  input  pulse  is 
present,  the  standby  clock  power  is  essentially  zero.  During  a  pulsing 
cycle  the  clock  conducts  only  a  small  current  before  turn-on  and  only 
instantaneously  at  a  low  voltage  at  turn-off.  Hence,  the  required  clock 
power  is  usually  less  than  two  milliwatts. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  amplitude  of  the  negative  peak  of  the 
clock  voltage  usually  should  not  be  more  negative  than  the  quiescent 
bias  voltage  on  the  emitter.  If  it  should  be,  Dl  will  conduct  and,  due  to 
minority  carrier  storage,  may  cause  false  triggering  when  the  clock  volt- 
age goes  positive.  The  current  through  Dl  at  turn-off  might  have  the 
same  effect  in  the  succeeding  cycle  except  that  the  flyback  voltage  of 
the  transformers  during  the  interdigit  period  removes  the  minority  car- 
riers from  both  Dl  and  D2.  Since  D2  carries  a  larger  current  for  a  longer 
period  than  Dl,  the  carriers  are  cleared  from  Dl  first.  It  is  then  reverse- 
biased  for  almost  one-half  the  repetition  period  before  there  is  any  chance 


1110      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

of  false  triggering.  Hence,  diode  reverse  recovery  time  is  not  a  problem. 
However,  Dl  should  have  a  short  forward  recovery  time  in  order  that   : 
turn-off  will  occur  rapidly. 

One  possible  limitation  of  this  synchronization  method  is  that  a  low 
impedance  clock  source  is  necessary.  This  is  usually  not  difficult  to  ob- 
tain with  a  resonant  circuit  in  the  output  of  the  clock  signal  source. 
Offsetting  this  point  are  the  advantages  of  low  clock  power,  esentially 
zero  standby  clock  power,  only  one  additional  component,  and  no  criti- 
cal component  tolerances. 

7.    ILLUSTRATIVE    DESIGN 

In  the  preceding  sections  the  features  of  various  configurations  for 
the  functional  circuits  of  an  amplifier  have  been  described.  The  following 
discussion  illustrates  the  application  of  these  ideas  to  an  amplifier  design 
for  use  in  a  digital  computer  system.  It  is  intended  that  the  descrip- 
tion of  the  design  philosophy  be  sufficient  to  permit  its  application  to 
other  systems. 

In  the  computer  under  consideration  the  amplifier  is  to  be  combined 
with  a  single  level,  diode  logic  circuit  to  form  a  logic  network.  The  logic 
networks,  together  with  delay  lines,  will  be  connected  in  appropriate 
arrays  to  perform  the  logic  functions  of  the  sytem,  such  as  addition, 
multiplication,  etc.  Digital  information  is  to  be  represented  by  one-half 
microsecond  pulses  and  the  amplifiers  are  to  be  synchronized  at  a  one 
megacycle  pulse  repetition  rate  by  a  four  phase  sine  wave  master  oscil- 
lator. Other  system  requirements  are  mentioned  in  connection  with  the 
selection  of  the  corresponding  functional  circuit. 

Since  the  amplifier  is  considered  as  a  small  system  of  functional  cir- 
cuits, it  is  necessary,  as  in  most  system  designs,  to  re-examine,  and  pos- 
sibly change,  circuit  choices  as  the  design  progresses.  However,  for  the 
sake  of  clarity,  the  following  discussion  omits  the  re-examination  and 
frequently  refers  to  the  final  schematic  shown  in  Fig.  13. 

The  first  step  in  the  design  is  to  select  the  feedback  configuration  most 
suitable  to  the  computer  requirements.  For  this  computer  the  dc  and 
clock  power  are  to  be  minimized  and  the  amplifier  should  be  able  to  drive 
from  1  to  12  logic  networks.  Miniaturization  of  the  computer  implies 
that  there  may  be  an  appreciable  amount  of  stray  capacity  across  the 
amplifier  output.  These  considerations  suggest  transformer  coupled  feed- 
back connected  in  series  with  an  output  circuit.  Since  both  positive  and 
negative  output  pulses  are  to  be  required  (one  polarity  for  AND  and 
OM  logic  and  the  other  polarity  for  inhil)ition),  transformer  output  cou- 
pling is  indicated. 


TRANSISTOR   PULSE    REGENERATIVE   AMPLIFIERS 


nil 


The  next  basic  selection  is  the  choice  of  an  appropriate  transistor.  In 
this  computer  it  is  expected  that  pulses  will  occur  in  only  about  one 
third  or  less  of  the  pulse  time  slots  due  to  the  nature  of  the  digital  in- 
formation. In  order  to  minimize  the  dc  standby  power  an  alloy  junction 
transistor  is  a  logical  choice  for  this  application  because  of  the  low  Ico 
current.  However,  even  with  a  junction  unit  possessing  an  alpha  cut- 
off frequency  of  eight  megacycles,  it  is  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  ob- 
tain acceptable  gain  and  rise  time  with  the  desired  output  load  current 
at  a  one  megacycle  repetition  rate.  If  the  rise  time  is  improved  by  in- 
creasing the  trigger  current,  the  gain  is  decreased.  The  principal  cause 
of  the  poor  "gain-bandwidth"  appears  to  be  the  depletion  layer  capaci- 
tance.^^ The  difficulty  can  be  overcome  by  selecting  a  point  contact 
transistor.  A  particular  germanium  transistor  coded  GA-52996*  appears 
to  be  suitable  and  has  the  following  pertinent  characteristics: 

a.  Collector  capacitance  less  than  0.5  uuf, 

b.  Alpha  cut-off  frequency  in  excess  of  80  mc, 

c.  Base     resistance     less    than     100     ohms. 

Since  the  alpha  of  this  unit  is  greater  than  2  at  collector  currents  of 
the  order  of  10  ma,  the  common  base  connection  will  yield  the  greatest 
current  gain.  The  disadvantage  of  a  point  contact  unit,  of  course,  is  the 
Ico  current.  For  this  reason  the  amplifier  will  have  to  be  designed  to  use 
the  smallest  possible  collector  supply  voltage. 

The  point  contact  transistor,  due  to  its  high  cut-off  frequency  relative 
to  the  amplifier  pulse  repetition  rate  and  its  high  alpha  at  small  emitter 


T~L 


INPUT 


I 

-8V 


I 
I 

+6V 


3 VOLT  PEAK 

i I  MEGACYCLE 

SINE  WAVE 

VOLTAGE 


I-2V 


_rL 


-w- 


OUTPUT 


Fig.  13  —  Illustrative  design 


*  This  is  a  relatively  special  unit  especially  suited  for  high  speed  switching 
applications. 


1112      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195G 

currents,*  permits  the  use  of  a  simple  input  circuit.  The  AND  type  input 
circuit  is  suitable  and  desirable  for  another  reason.  When  AND  type 
logic  is  added  to  the  amplifier,  it  may  be  paralleled  with  the  basic  input 
circuit  and  the  input  sensitivity  of  the  complete  network  will  be  the  same 
as  for  the  amplifier  alone.  Other  logic  circuits  will  be  added  to  an  ampli- 
fier in  a  manner  similar  to  that  described  by  Felker-  so  that  the  input 
sensitivity  will  be  reduced  at  most  by  the  voltage  drop  across  one  series 
diode  (approximately  0.3  volts). 

The  input  pulse  voltage  and  current  requirements  depend  upon  the 
voltage  threshold  necessary  to  prevent  false  operation  and  the  minimum 
trigger  current  for  reliable  regeneration.  A  test  of  several  sample  tran- 
sistors indicates  that  approximately  0.3-ma  emitter  current  is  required 
to  trigger  the  transistor  with  an  estimated  collector  supplj^  voltage  of 
10  volts.  The  emitter  breakpointf  voltage  is  found  to  vaTy  between 
—  0.25  and  +0.25  volts.  To  allow  for  aging  variations  of  the  transistor 
and  of  R2,  it  seems  reasonable  to  use  a  6-volt  source  and  R2  ec^ual  to 
9090  ohms,  which  results  in  a  trigger  current  a  little  more  than  twice  the 
required  minimum.  Previous  experience  with  computers  of  this  type  in- 
dicates that  a  2-voIt  threshold  will  be  sufficient  to  prevent  false  trigger- 
ing. Thus,  the  secondary  winding  of  the  feedback  transformer  is  returned 
to  —2  volts  and  Rl  is  chosen  to  give  a  quiescent  emitter  voltage  of  —2 
volts.  With  these  considerations  and  an  estimated  voltage  drop  across 
R3,  the  input  pulse  amplitude  is  calculated  to  be  2.3  volts  and  0.9  ma. 
Allowing  0.3  volts  for  a  series  logic  diode,  the  minimum  output  voltage 
and  current  of  the  amplifier  are  2.6  volts  and  0.9  ma  per  driven  network. 

The  selection  of  the  collector  supply  voltage  and  the  turns  ratio  of  T2 
depends  upon  the  dc  power  dissipation  due  to  Ico  current  and  output 
voltage  regulation  versus  collector  current.  For  this  transistor  a  unity 
turns  ratio  appears  to  represent  a  reasonable  compromise.  Then,  by 
estimating  the  voltage  drops  across  Tl,  T2,  and  the  transistor,  it  is 
found  that  a  collector  supply  voltage  of  —  8  volts  is  suflScient  to  produce 
an  output  pulse  voltage  about  0.5  volt  greater  than  the  required 
miminum. 

The  next  step  is  the  selection  of  the  turns  ratio  of  Tl  and  the  primary 
inductances  of  both  Tl  and  T2.  The  two  considerations  involved  are 
sufficient  feedback  with  the  minimum  output  current  (the  worst  case 
with  respect  to  feedback)  and  the  maximum  collector  dissipation  in  the 
event  that  the  clock  fails.  By  means  of  the  formulas  and  assumptions 
indicated  in  section  5,  primary  inductance  values  of  0.4  mh  for  Tl  and 


*  Usually  a  >  4  for  ie  =  0.5  ma. 

t  The  transition  point  of  the  emitter  diode  from  cut-ofT  to  conduction. 


TRANSISTOR    PULSE    REGENERATIVE    AMPLIFIERS  1113 

0.2  mh  for  T2  together  with  a  turns  ratio  of  1.4  for  Tl  are  selected.  Since 
the  GA-52996  transistor  is  not  quite  short  circuit  staple,  a  50-ohm 
resistor  is  added  in  series  with  the  emitter.  The  excess  emitter  current 
at  the  end  of  the  pulse  duration  is  greater  than  2  ma,  thus  assuring  suffi- 
cient stability,  and,  if  the  clock  fails,  the  amplifier  will  turn  off  by  itself 
in  approximately  7  jusec,  at  which  time  the  instantaneous  collector  dissi- 
pation will  be  approximately  240  mw  (considered  to  be  a  safe  instan- 
taneous dissipation  for  this  transistor). 

For  low  clock  power  and  circuit  simplicity  the  single  diode  synchroniz- 
ing circuit  is  chosen.  Although  a  peak  clock  voltage  of  2  volts  would  nor- 
mally be  used  (this  value  corresponds  to  the  quiescent  emitter  bias  volt- 
age) it  is  found  that  the  clock  may  be  varied  between  1  volt  and  6  volts 
peak  without  a  failure  occurring.  Therefore,  the  nominal  clock  voltage 
is  set  at  a  centered  value  of  3  volts  peak.  The  dc  level  of  the  clock  voltage 
is  0  volts,  which  approximately  corresponds  to  the  emitter  break  point 
voltage  of  the  transistor.  This  concludes  the  basic  selections  in  the  de- 
sign procedure. 

The  power  dissipated  in  the  amplifier  is  quite  modest.  In  the  quiescent 
state  the  amplifier  absorbs  only  0.2  mw  average  clock  power  and  30  mw 
dc  power  (this  would  be  only  10  mw  if  the  I co  power  w'ere  negligible). 
When  the  amplifier  is  pulsing  every  microsecond  the  dc  power  is  50  mw 
and  the  averge  clock  power  is  2  mw.  Since  the  amplifier  is  so  conser- 
vative of  power,  it  is  possible  to  use  4,000  networks  in  a  computer  and 
require  less  than  200  watts  dc  power. 

One  indication  of  the  component  sensitivity  of  a  pulse  amplifier  is  the 
magnitude  of  the  supply  voltage  margins.  In  this  amplifier  the  supply 
voltages  may  be  varied,  one  at  a  time,  over  ±12  per  cent  of  the  nominal 
values  before  a  failure  occurs.  Generally  margins  of  this  magnitude  under 
the  worst  conditions  are  considered  sufficient  to  guarantee  against  fail- 
ures caused  by  aging,  or  to  insure  that  such  failures  will  be  indicated  by 
routine  checks  before  they  occur.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  in  a  tem- 
perature test  the  amplifier  continued  to  operate  properly  over  a  tempera- 
ture range  from  —20  to  +80°C.  Even  at  -f75°C  the  supply  voltage 
margins  were  10  per  cent  or  better. 

8.    SUMMARY 

A  method  of  analysis  and  design  procedure  have  been  presented  in 
which  a  transistor  regenerative  amplifier  is  considered  as  an  intercon- 
nected system  of  functional  circuits.  Each  functional  circuit  may  be 
evaluated  or  chosen  in  terms  of  the  requirements  of  the  complete  digital 
system  in  which  the  amplifier  is  to  be  used.  In  general  no  particular  cir- 


1 

lU-i   THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  SEPTEMBER  1956 

cuit  or  collection  of  circuits  can  result  in  an  amplifier  suitable  for  use 
in  every  type  of  digital  system.  The  use  of  an  AND  type  input  circuit, 
transformer  coupled  output  and  feedback  circuits,  and  an  inhibit  type 
synchronizing  circuit  appear  to  be  an  optimum  set  of  functional  circuits 
to  make  up  an  amplifier  for  use  in  a  synchronous  digital  computer  system 
emplojdng  passive  logic  circuits.  An  illustrative  design  is  presented  for 
such  an  amplifier  which  operates  at  a  pulse  repetition  rate  of  1  mc, 
uses  12  components  (none  of  which  are  especially  critical),  requires  an 
average  of  40-mw  dc  power  and  1-mw  clock  power,  is  capable  of  driving 
from  1  to  12  similar  amplifiers,  and  has  voltage  margins  in  excess  of  12 
per  cent.  Although  the  design  philosophy  was  developed  for  this  type  of 
amplifier,  it  is  believed  that  much  of  the  philosophy  is  applicable  to 
regenerative  amplifiers  for  use  in  other  digital  data  processing  systems. 

9.  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

The  final  design  and  the  performance  data  of  the  illustrative  amplifier 
are  due  to  L.  C.  Thomas  and  H.  E.  Coonce.  The  author  also  wishes  to 
express  his  appreciation  for  the  many  helpful  and  stimulating  discus- 
sions with  other  colleagues,  especially  A.  J.  Grossman,  T.  R.  Finch, 
J.  H.  Felker,  and  J.  R.  Harris. 

REFERENCES 

1.  S.  Greenwald,  et  al.,  SEAC,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  Oct.,  1953. 

2.  J.  H.  Felker,  Regenerative  Amplifier  for  Digital  Computer  Applications,  Proc. 

I.R.E.,  Nov.,  1952. 

3.  J.  L.  Moll,  Large-Signal  Transient  Response  of  Junction  Transistors,  Proc. 

I.R.E.,  Dec,  1954. 

4.  J.  G.  Linvill  and  R.  H.  Mattson,  Junction  Transistor  Blocking  Oscillators, 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  Nov.,  1955. 

5.  A.  E.  Anderson,  Transistors  in  Switching  Circuits,  B. S.T.J. ,  Nov.,  1952. 

6.  T.  E.  Firle,  et.  al.,  Recovery  Time  Measurements  on  Point-Contact  Germa- 

nium Diodes,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  May,  1955. 

7.  S.  L.  Miller  and  J.  J.  Ebers,  Alloyed  Junction  Avalanche  Transistors,  B.S. 

T.J.,  Sept.,  1955. 

8.  J.  J.  Ebers  and  S.  L.  Miller,  Design  of  Alloyed  Junction  Germanium  Transis- 

tors for  High  Speed  Switching,  B.S.T.J.,  July,  1955. 

9.  T.  C.  Chen,  Diode  Coincidence  and  Mixing  Circuits  in  Digital  Computation, 

Proc.  I.R.E.,  May,  1950. 

10.  L.  W.  Hussey,  Semiconductor  Diode  Gates,  B.S.T.J.,  Sept.,  1953. 

11.  J.  M.  Early,  Design  Theory  of  Junction  Transistors,  B.S.T.J.,  Nov.,  1953. 

12.  Q.  W.  Simkins  and  J.  H.  Vogelsong,  Transistor  Amplifiers  for  Use  in  a  Digital 

Computer,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  Jan.,  1956. 

13.  M.  Tanenbaum  and  D.  E.  Thomas,  Diffused  Emitter  and  Base  Silicon  Tran- 

sistors, B.S.T.J.,  Jan.,  1956. 


Observed  5-6  mm  Attenuation  for  the 

Circular  Electric  Wave  in  Small  and 

Medium-Sized  Pipes 

By  A.  P.  KING 

(Manuscript  received  March  20,  1956) 

At  frequencies  in  the  50-60  kmc  region  the  use  of  circular  electric  wave 
transmission  can  provide  lower  transmission  losses  than  the  dominant 
mode,  even  in  relatively  small  pipes. 

The  performance  of  two  sizes  of  waveguide  was  investigated.  In  the  small 
size  (Kg"  ^•^-  X  Me"  wall)  the  measured  TEoi  attenuation  was  approxi- 
mately 5  db/100  ft  and  is  appreciably  less  than  that  of  the  dominant  mode. 
The  measured  attenuation  for  the  medium  sized  (%"  I.D.  X  }^i'^  wall) 
waveguide  was  0.5  dh/100  ft  which  is  about  one-fourth  that  for  the  dominant 
mode. 

This  paper  also  considers  briefly  some  of  the  spurious  mode  conversion- 
reconversion  effects  over  the  transmission  band  and  their  reduction  when 
spurious  mode  filters  are  distributed  along  the  line.  Allowance  has  been 
made  for  the  added  losses  due  to  oxygen  absorption  when  air  is  present. 

INTRODUCTION 

Since  5.4-mm  dominant-mode  rectangular  waveguide  has  attenuations 
of  the  order  of  60  db/100  ft,  another  transmission  technique  is  required 
in  applications  which  involve  appreciable  line  lengths.  Losses  may  be 
reduced  by  the  use  of  oversize  waveguide ;  some  earlier  work  with  domi- 
nant mode  transmission  in  slightly  oversize  round  waveguide  (two  or 
three  propagating  modes)  has  been  reported.^  The  possibility  of  still 
lower  losses  exists  with  circular  electric  wave  transmission  in  an  over- 
size round  waveguide.  Miller  and  Beck-  have  computed  the  theoretical 
relative  transmission  losses  of  the  TEoi  and  TEn  modes  as  functions  of 


'  A.  P.  King,  Dominant  Wave  Transnaission  Characteristics  of  a  Multimode 
Round  Waveguide,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  pp  966-969,  Aug.,  1952. 

2  S.  E.  Miller  and  A.  C.  Beck,  Low  Loss  Waveguide  Transmission,  Proc.  I.R.E., 
41,  pp  348-358,  March,  1953. 

1115 


1116      THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

guide  size  and  frequency.  At  5.4  mm,  a  J^e"  I-I^-  waveguide  has  an 
appreciably  lower  attenuation  with  the  circular  electric  mode  than  with 
the  dominant  mode.  A  %"  I.D.  guide  has  a  circular  electric  attenuation 
approximately  one-fourth  that  of  the  dominant  mode  in  the  same  pipe. 
It  is  the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  present  some  experimental  results 
which  have  been  observed  with  circular  electric  wave  transmission  in 
the  5-6  mm  wavelength  region.  The  attenuation  for  three  different  hnes 
and  the  transmission  variations  due  to  moding  effects  are  reported.  Al- 
lowance for  the  loss  due  to  oxygen  absorption  has  been  included. 

DESCRIPTION   OF   THE   TEST   LINES 

The  TEoi  mode  attenuation  measurements  were  made  on  approxi- 
mately straight  runs  of  line  ranging  from  about  100  to  200  feet  in  length. 
The  copper  pipe  comprising  these  lines  is  believed  to  conform  to  the 
best  tolerances  and  internal  smoothness  which  are  current  manufacturing 
practice  for  waveguide  tubing.  The  relative  tolerances  and  their  effect 
upon  transmission  are  considered  in  a  later  section.  Three  kinds  of  copper 
line  were  measured:  a  waveguide  of  oxygen-free  copper,  one  line  of  low 
phosphorous-deoxidized  copper  and  one  line  of  steel  with  a  20-mil  low 
phosphorous-deoxidized  copper  inner  lining.  The  oxygen-free  high-con- 
ductivity-copper with  its  higher  conductivity  and  somewhat  greater 
ductility  was  chosen  to  provide  comparative  performance  data  with  the 
low  phosphorous-deoxidized  copper  which  is  commonly  used  in  wave- 
guide manufacture.  A  waveguide  whose  outer  wall  is  constructed  of 
steel  to  provide  the  necessary  strength  and  wall  thickness  to  support  a 
very  thin  copper  inner  wall  has  the  advantage  that  such  waveguide  re- 
quires less  copper.  This  composite  wall  tubing  was  obtained  to  ascertain 
whether  the  tolerances  and  the  nature  of  the  inner  surface  would  yield 
transmission  data  comparable  to  solid  copper  waveguide. 

The  lines  Avere  supported  on  brackets  which  were  accurately  aligned 
and  spaced  at  6-ft  intervals.  Although  the  brackets  provided  for  an 
accurately  straight  line,  the  manufactured  pipe  was  not  perfectly  straight 
but,  in  some  samples,  varied  as  much  as  %"  in  a  12-ft  length.  Installing 
the  pipe  on  the  brackets  tended  to  straighten  the  line  and  reduce  these 
variations  to  about  half  this  amount.  A  general  view  of  the  lines  is  shown 
in  the  photograph  of  Fig.  1. 

The  sections  of  waveguide  were  joined  together  with  a  more  or  less 
conventional  threaded  coupling,  but  with  one  very  important  difference. 
The  threads,  which  are  cut  at  the  ends  of  each  section,  are  cut  relative 
to  center  of  the  inside  diameter  and  not  the  outside  diameter.  This  is 
achieved  by  employing  a  precision  pilot  to  provide  a  center  for  the  cut- 


i 


5-6   MM   ATTENUATION   FOR   THE   CIRCULAR   ELECTRIC   WAVE       1117 


^''■m 


m  9^ 


m    #% 


Fig.  1  —  General  view  of  the  circular  waveguide  lines  and  the  millimeter  wave 
measuring  equipment. 


ting  die.  Since  the  internal  diameter  is  made  as  precise  as  possible,  the 
variations  of  outside  diameter  become  a  function  of  the  tolerances  of 
both  the  internal  diameter  and  wall  thickness  and  cannot  be  as  precise 
as  the  inside  of  the  pipe.  Any  thread  cut  relative  to  the  outside  diameter 
as  in  regular  plumbing  practice,  will  not,  in  general,  be  concentric  to  the 


1118      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

inside  wall.  To  avoid  an  offset  at  the  joint  it  is  therefore  important  that 
the  thread  be  centered  relative  to  the  inside  diameter.  After  a  section 
was  threaded  the  ends  were  faced  off  to  make  the  ends  square  and  thus 
avoid  any  tilt  between  sections  when  the  ends  are  butted  together. 

Of  the  two  sizes  tested  the  smaller  diameter  (Ke"  I-D.  X  Ke"  wall) 
was  chosen  to  provide  a  moderate  line  loss,  while  limiting  the  number 
of  propagating  modes.  In  the  band  of  interest  (5.2-5.7  mm)  the  theoreti- 
cal TEoi  wave  attenuation  is  about  4  db/100  ft.  The  number  of  modes 
which  can  be  supported  at  X  =  5.2  mm  is  limited  to  12  modes  and  to 
only  one  of  the  circular  electric  modes.  The  higher  order  TEon  modes  are 
beyond  cut-off.  These  features  limit  the  number  of  spurious  modes  and 
simplify  the  mode  filtering  problem.  Furthermore,  in  this  smaller  sized 
waveguide,  the  associated  components  which  may  set  up  TEon  waves, 
for  example  conical  tapers,  need  not  be  as  long  proportionately  as  in 
larger  waveguides.  The  %6"  I-I^-  guide  has  the  advantage  of  smaller 
size,  lower  cost  and  greater  ease  of  transmitting  TEoi  through  specially 
constructed  bends.  The  attenuation  of  this  smaller  diameter  guide  is 
large  enough  that  system  requirements  will  usually  restrict  its  usage  to 
lengths  of  line  of  a  hundred  feet  or  so. 

The  larger  size  (J^''  I.D.  X  3^"  wall)  is  exactly  twice  the  diameter  of 
the  small  size  discussed  in  the  preceding  paragraph  but  has  only  one- 
tenth  the  attenuation,  or  about  0.4  db/100  ft.  The  low  loss  of  this  larger 
size  becomes  more  attractive  for  runs  as  long  as  several  hundred  feet. 
This  diameter  guide  will,  of  course,  support  more  modes,  50  at  X  =  5.2 
mm;  four  of  which  are  circular  electric  modes  — •  TEoi ,  TE02 ,  TE03 
and  TE04 .  Some  of  the  disadvantages  which  accompany  the  increased 
diameter  are:  (1)  greater  care  must  be  taken  as  to  line  straightness,  (2) 
longer  conical  tapers  are  required  when  converting  from  one  guide  diam- 
eter to  another,  and  (3)  longer  mode  filters  are  required  since  the  desired 
mode-filtering  attenuations  vary  inversely  with  the  filter  diameter  at  a 
given  frequency.  Flexible  spaced-disk  lines  employed  as  uniform  bends 
for  TEoi  transmission  require  much  greater  bending  radii  than  bends  in 
the  smaller  diameter  guide  if  the  bend  loss  is  to  be  kept  proportionately 
low.  This  problem  is  considered  in  some  detail  in  another  paper.^  With 
reasonable  care  the  accumulative  effect  of  these  foregoing  factors  can 
be  held  to  a  reasonably  low  value.  Expressed  in  terms  of  the  ratio  of 
measured  to  theoretical  attenuation  the  values  are,  on  the  average, 
about  10  per  cent  higher  in  the  %"  I.D.  waveguide  than  in  the  J4.6" 
I.D.  waveguide. 


A.  P.  King,  forthcoming  paper  on  bends. 


5-6  MM   ATTENUATION   FOR   THE    CIRCULAR   ELECTRIC   WAVE      1119 


»»         '  • "  K>if 


.^^.  .^W-  -^P-  .I^P. 


Fig.  2  —  Waveguide  portion  of  millimeter  wave  measuring  set. 


MEASURING    PROCEDURE 

With  straight  runs  of  round,  TEoi  waveguide  lines  whose  length  lies 
in  the  100-200  ft  range,  it  is  convenient  to  make  attenuation  measure- 
ments on  a  round  trip  basis.  This  method  has  the  advantage  of  conven- 
ience in  that  the  attenuation  can  be  measured  directly  by  using  a  wave- 
guide switch  but  has  the  disadvantage  of  requiring  a  careful  impedance 
match  of  the  measuring  equipment  to  the  line.  Fig.  1  shows  an  overall 
view  of  the  lines;  Fig.  2  shows  the  arrangement  of  the  5-6  mm  measuring 
set,  and  Fig.  3  shows  a  block  diagram  of  the  set-up  employed. 

This  measuring  set  makes  use  of  two  klystrons  developed  by  these 
laboratories.*  The  double  detection  receiver  features  a  separate  beating 
oscillator  klystron  which  is  frequency  modulated  and  a  narrow  band 
(1.7  mc  at  60  mc)  IF  ampHfier.  The  resulting  IF  pulses  are  detected 
wuth  a  peak  detector  and  then  amphfied  to  provide  the  usual  meter 
indication.  This  method  with  its  circuitry  has  been  developed  by  W.  C. 
Jakes  and  D.  H.  Ring,^  and  provides  a  greater  amplitude  stability  than 
is  possible  with  a  cw  beating  oscillator. 

In  the  waveguide  schematic  of  Fig.  3  about  a  tenth  of  the  power  is 

^  E.  D.  Reed,  A  Tunable,  Low  Voltage  Reflex  Klystron  for  Operation  in  the 
50-60  Kmc  Band,  B.S.T.J.,  34,  p.  563,  May  1955. 
*  W.  C.  Jakes  and  D.  H.  Ring,  unpublished  work. 


1120      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

taken  from  the  signal  oscillator  to  provide  monitoring  and  wavemeter 
indication.  The  remaining  power,  after  suitable  padding,  is  fed  into  a 
3-db  directional  coupler  or  hj^brid  junction  2.  This  junction  is  employed 
as  a  waveguide  bridge  so  that,  when  arms  A  and  B  are  properly  termi-  ' 
nated,  no  power  flows  in  receiving  arm  C.  Any  reflection  in  line  A  will, 


WAVE 
METER 


0 


MONITOR 


SIGNAL 
OSCILLATOR 


X 


•-10DB 


, Q 

oDB  v_y 

I 

^4- 


2>/ 


^3DB    COUPLER  WAVEGUIDE 

/-^{HYBRID   JUNCTION)  SWITCH 

/  y^         ROUND 

TUNER TAPER  ^^     <•         WAVEGUIDE 

LINE 


X        TE 


TEo,    TEo, 


Fig.  3  —  Schematic  of  measuring  equipment. 


ADJUSTING 
KNOB 


-RG  98/u 


Fig.  4  —  Structure  of  impedance  matching  tuner. 


5-6   MM   ATTENUATION   FOR   THE    CIRCULAR   ELECTRIC   WAVE     1121 


Fig.  5  —  Structure  of  waveguide  switch. 


however,  produce  a  power  flow  in  the  arm  C  to  the  balanced  converter 
of  the  receiver  and  an  indication  in  the  output  meter.  So  far  this  set  is 
similar  to  a  setup  for  measuring  the  round  trip  loss  in  a  terminated 
waveguide  system.  The  impedance  of  the  TE?o  ^  TEoi  wave  trans- 
ducer,^ taper  section  and  mode  filter  connected  as  shown  in  the  section 
A-D  of  Fig.  3  can  be  matched  to  the  rectangular  waveguide  at  A  by  an 
appropriate  adjustment  of  the  dielectric  post  tuner^  Ti  whose  structure 
is  shown  in  Fig.  4.  Under  these  conditions  a  conical  taper  termination 
placed  in  the  round  waveguide  at  D  will  again  produce  a  balance  and 
again  no  power  will  flow  in  arm  C.  A  ^vaveguide  switch  whose  structure 
is  shown  in  Fig.  5  is  connected  between  the  point  D  and  the  line  under 
test.  A  movable  short  at  the  far  end  of  the  line  completes  the  set-up. 

With  the  impedances  matched  as  described  above,  the  only  reflection 
which  reaches  the  receiver  wdll  be  from  the  far  end  of  the  line  when  the 
switch  S  is  open  or,  when  shorted,  from  the  switch  itself.  The  round- 
trip  attenuation  is  the  difference  in  attenuation  measured  for  the  two 
positions  of  the  switch.  By  means  of  a  movable  short  at  the  far  end  of 
the  line,  the  line  length  can  be  varied  to  produce  mode  conversion  and 
mode  reconversion  effects,  and  the  resultant  variation  in  TEoi  mode 
transmission  can  be  observed.  This  phenomena  is  described  in  some  de- 
tail elsewhere.^ 


"  Reference  2,  page  354,  Fig.  14. 

■  C.  F.  Edwards,  U.S.  Patent  2,563,591,  Aug.  7,  1951.  The  millimeter  tuner 
employs  an  adjustable  dielectric  post  in  place  of  a  metallic  tuning  screw  described 
in  the  patent. 

*  Reference  2,  pp  356,  357. 


1122      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 
LOSSES   DUE   TO    OXYGEN   ABSORPTION 

In  addition  to  the  losses  which  result  from  imperfect  conductivity, 
surface  effects,  and  mode  conversions,  there  is  a  very  appreciable  loss 
due  to  oxygen  absorption  when  the  guide  is  open  to  the  atmosphere.  In 
a  waveguide  the  loss  due  to  O2  absorption  is: 

where 

A  is  the  absorption  due  to  oxygen  in  the  atmosphere 
=  X/Xc 
=  free  space  wavelength 

=  cut-off  wavelength 


V 

X 

Xc=    ^    = 


k        3.83  -.:  ._ 

d    =  internal  diameter  of  waveguide  ^ 

k    =  Bessel  root  for  TEoi  mode  =  3.832 
The  loss   due   to  absorption  of  oxygen  which  is  present  in   the   at- 
mosphere (at  approximately  sea  level)  was  obtained  from  the  experi- 
mental data  of  D,  C.  Hogg.^  The  added  loss  produced  by  the  presence 

0.5 


o 
o 


CO 
o 


O 

o 

I- 

UJ 

D 
Q 

(/) 
W 

o 

_l 


in 
< 

a. 
o 

z 


0.4 


0.3 


0.2 


0.1 


\ 

\ 

V 

V 

■h- 

\ 

v\ 

\ 

2,.c- 

>\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

X 

^^ 

=-- 

5.0  5.2  5.4  5.6 

WAVELENGTH    IN    MM 


5.8 


Fig.  6  —  TEoi  transmission  loss  in  waveguides  due  to  oxygen  absorption. 


'  A.  B,  Crawford  and  D.  C.  Hogg,  Measurement  of  Atmospheric  Attenuation 
at  Millimeter  Wavelengths,  B.S.T.J.,  35,  pp.  907-917,  July,  1956. 


5-6  MM  ATTENUATION  FOR  THE    CIRCULAR  ELECTRIC   WAVE     1123 

of  oxygen  in  the  waveguide  in  terms  of  (1)  is  plotted  in  Fig.  6.  It  will 
be  noted  that  this  loss  becomes  very  appreciable  at  the  short  wave- 
length end  of  the  band.  At  X  =  5.2  mm  this  loss  is  in  the  0.3-0.4  db/100 
ft  range.  For  the  larger  size  waveguide  hue  (J^"  I.D.)  the  loss  due  to 
O2  is  approximately  equal  to  the  theoretical  wall  losses;  for  the  smaller 
size  lines  this  amounts  to  about  a  tenth  the  wall  loss.  At  the  other  end 
of  the  millimeter  band  the  O2  losses  are  very  small,  being  in  the  0.02 
-  0.03  db/100  ft  range  at  X  =  5.7  mm. 

The  relative  effects  of  theoretical  wall  and  expected  oxygen  ab- 
sorption losses  are  shown  plotted  in  Fig.  7.  For  the  two  sizes  of  wave- 
guide the  upper  dashed  curve  represents  the  combined  effect  of  these 
two  factors  and  the  lower  solid  line  curve  is  the  theoretical  attenuation 
of  the  TEoi  mode  in  empty  pipe.  The  shaded  area  indicates  the  increase 
which  is  the  result  of  oxygen  absorption. 

In  order  to  minimize  the  transmission  losses  in  any  practical  system 
it  becomes  desirable  to  exclude  the  presence  of  oxygen  from  the  hne,  for 
example,  by  introducing  an  atmosphere  of  dry  nitrogen.  Since  the  ex- 


5.0 


4.5 


I- 

UJ 
ID 


O 

o 

a. 
Ill 

Q. 
HI 

m 
o 

UJ 

o 


4.0 


3.5 


3.0 


WAVEGUIDE 
+O2   LOSS 

rO 

J  LOS 

S 

-3--' 

^ 

\ 

V/^ 

>2 

7^ 

■^.^^ 

/ 

^ 

y^ 

^ 

THEORETICAL 
WAVEGUIDE    LOSS 

5.0       5.1        5.2       5.3       5.4      5.5      5.6       5.7      5.8 

WAVELENGTH   IN    MILLIMETERS 

(a)    TEq,    loss  IN   7/16"  I.D  COPPER 


0.8 


Z 
O 

w 

z 
< 

a. 


0.7 


0.6 


0.5 


0.4 


0.3 


0.2 


THEORETICAL     WAVEGUIDE    LOSS 


5.0       5.1         5.2       5.3       5.4       5.5      5.6       5.7       5.8 

WAVELENGTH    IN    MILLIMETERS 

(.b)     TEq,    loss    in     ys"   I.D.  COPPER 

Fig.  7  —  TEoi  transmission  losses. 


1124      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


tn  a. 


D  OJ 

<.  o 

O  Q- 

cc^-'ai 

-  Q. 

LINE 
RLTE 
JOINT 
T    LIN 

1  to  q 

Z    LUl"- 

-    <^    M 

<  gO'O 

I   N 

-i  9<S 

Q.  O 

a.  ^oi^ 

Q  X 

1 

-■  O 

1 

1     HI 

1 

r~|<DQ 

1 

I 
h- 

z 

LL) 


OJ 

z 


cr 

U- 


z  cc     II 
o  <-> 


z 

LU 


OJ 

z 


« 

I 

k 

\ 

^  y 

_/> 

\  -J 

\l 

7 

'  < 

Q  \ 

\ 

1- 

UJ     \ 

\ 

Ol 

cr 

N.\ 

QC 

CO 

\' 

S.  iJJ 

< 

> 

/^I 

UJ 

/^ 

^<r- 

« 

A 

1 

Q 

ai 

z 


O-  _) 

UJ  LU 

CL  UJ 

O  to 
U 


tr  I- 
Lu  y  z 

-I    Li.  -1 
Z    UJ  I 

<  9'-' 
_j  9< 

Q-    2  UJ 


r-|oo 


z 

UJ 

_l 

UJ 

z 


\ 

vi 

\ 

?it 

\. 

\y  N 

V. 

\      \ 

v^ 

.^    \ 

\\- 

/  K      \ 

UJ 

1  /  \ 

A^ 

/ 

lUJ 

/\ 

'l 

f\  \ 

|i- 

Sv 

\ 

« 

^vS 

-  \ 

^\  \ 

A 

.    1 

vi 

\ 

^ 

iy 

in 

^  5 
in 

z 

in  H- 

rt  z 

^.   UJ 

in  -I 

LU 

m  5 

(\j 
in 


for^  (Din         ^         nco^^         to 

dddddddod 
Id  001    H3d    aa    Nl    NOIlvnN3iiV 


in 
o 


LU 
CL 
CL 

o 
u 


fO 


LU 

cc 

.U. 


d 


LU 

O 

> 
X 

o 


t-|<o 


d 


Q 
UJ 
Q 
Q 
< 

I 

u. 


Q 
UJ 
I- 
L) 
D 

Q< 

UJ  H- 

Q  < 

Q 


UJ    UJ 
Z    Q 

li  o 

if 


(O  5 
UJ  o 
lO  CC 
(O  U. 

o 


O 


OJ 


o 

ID 


03 
O 


o 


t3 

a 

O 


CO 

W) 


Id  001    ySd    90     Nl    N0liVnN3iiV 


5-6   MM   ATTENUATION   FOR   THE   CIRCULAR   ELECTRIC   WAVE      1125 

elusion  of  oxygen  was  not  very  feasible  in  the  experimental  TEoi  lines, 
the  effects  due  to  oxygen  absorption  were  included  in  the  measurements. 
However,  in  order  to  simpHfy  the  presentation  of  the  attenuation  data 
these  absorption  losses,  as  indicated  in  Figs.  6  and  7,  have  been  sub- 
tracted from  the  measured  data. 

The  measured  attenuation  of  the  four  lines  are  shown  in  Fig.  8  as  a 
function  of  wavelength  (5.1-5.8  mm).  In  each  case  the  dash-dot-dash 
lines  represent  the  theoretical  attenuation  for  copper.  Each  plot  shows 
two  solid  lines  which  indicate  the  range  of  values  measured  over  the  mm 
band.  The  same  range  was  observed  either  by  varying  the  length  of  the 
line  by  means  of  a  sliding  piston  at  the  far  end  of  the  line  or  by  imposing 
a  sweep  voltage  on  the  repeller  of  the  signal  klystron  to  produce  a  small 
frequency  modulation.  These  variations  in  attenuation  correspond  to 
piston  movements  which  are  greater  than  a  half  wavelength  and  are  due 
to  the  mode  interference  effects  produced  by  spurious  modes  generated 
in  the  line.  The  resultant  signal  fluctuations  which  are  due  to  mode  con- 
version and  reconversion  effects  have  been  described  in  considerable 
detail  by  Miller.^o 

Referring  again  to  Fig.  8,  the  measured  data  shown  by  the  solid  lines, 
which  are  for  a  plain  line  without  mode  filters,  indicates  that  the  oxygen- 
free  high  conductivity  copper  line  gave  the  lowest  measured  average 
attenuation  as  well  as  the  least  variation.  The  low  phosphorous  deox- 


Table  1 


■'At'  LD. 

%"  I.D. 

W  I.D. 

W  I.D. 

OFHC  Copper 

OFHC  Copper 

Low  Phos. 
Deoxidized  Copper 

Copper  Lined 
Steel 

Wall  Thickness  

Me" 

W 

W 

W 

ameas.  (db/100  f t) . . 
a  meas 

4.33  ±  0.24 
1.17 

1/1100 
0.0004" 

1/730 
0.0006" 

1/310 
0.0014" 

0.47  ±  0.02 
1.29 

1/1100 
0.0008" 

1/875 
0.001" 

1/730 
0.0012" 

0.49  ±  0.05 
1.34 

1/1200 
0.00075" 

1/875 
0.001" 

1/430 
0.002" 

0.52  ±  0.04 
1.42 

a  calc 

Average  ovality 

A 

B 

Maximum  ovality 

A 

B 

Maximum  tolerance 

A 

B 

1/585 
0.0015" 

1/290 
0.003" 

1/290 
0.003" 

'"  S.  E.  Miller,  Waveguide  as  a  Communication  Medium,  B. S.T.J. ,  33,   pp. 
1229-1247,  Nov.  1954. 


1120      THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

idized  copper  was  next  best  while  the  steel  line  with  a  20-mil  inner  copper 
lining  was  the  poorest. 

In  the  "J/ig"  I-I^-  oxygen-free  high  conductivity  copper  line  the  meas- 
ured attenuation  was  17  per  cent  higher  than  the  calculated  value  (see 
a  meas/a:  calc  in  Table  I).  This  higher  loss  is  attributed  to  spurious  mode 
conversion  and  to  surface  conductivity  effects.  In  the  %"  line  of  the 
same  material  the  a  meas/a  calc  =  1.29  which  is  an  increase  of  12  per 
cent  relative  to  the  smaller  waveguide.  Since  the  %''  diameter  line  sup- 
ports about  four  times  the  number  of  modes  of  the  Jite"  diameter  line, 
this  increase  in  loss  is  attributed  to  mode  conversion.  In  the  other  two 
%''  diameter  guides  the  added  losses  are  believed  to  be  increased  mode 
conversion  which  results  from  the  poorer  dimensional  tolerances.  These 
data  are  listed  in  Table  I  together  with  dimensional  tolerances.  In  this 
table  Q!meas  is  the  measured  attenuation  averaged  over  the  5.2-5.7  mm 
band  together  with  the  variations  shown  in  Fig.  8;  acaic  is  the  average 
theoretical  attenuation  for  standard  (I ACS)  copper.  The  I.D.  tolerances 
are  listed  in  two  sets  of  rows  A  and  B ;  row  A  gives  the  fractional  variation 


CARBON-LOADED 
NEOPRENE 


END' 
COUPLING 
SECTION 


TYPE 

MEDIUM 
SMALL 


O.  P. 
2" 


I.D. 

7/ a" 

7/16" 


o.oao" 

0.081" 


i 


Fig.  9  —  Structure  of  spaced-disk  mode  filter. 


5-6   MM   ATTENUATION   FOR   THE    CIRCULAR   ELECTRIC   WAVE       1127 


-e 


Fig.  10  —  Mode  filters. 

I 

ji  relative  to  the  average  diameter  and  the  rows  marked  B  indicate  the 
corresponding  variations  in  inches.  The  average  ovahty  gives  the  aver- 

,  age  difference  between  maximum  and  minimum  diameters,  maximum 

i  ovahty  the  maximum  difference  in  diameter  and  the  maximum  toler- 
ance  gives   the   maximum  difference  between  diameter  and  ovality. 

'  These  measurements  have  been  limited  to  measuring  at  the  two  ends 
of  each  section  of  pipe.  In  spite  of  this  small  sampHng  the  TEoi  loss 
measurement  appears  to  follow  the  I.D.  tolerances  quite  well;  the 
OFHC  line  shows  both  the  lowest  attenuation  and  the  best  tolerances. 
Mode  interference  effects  can  be  reduced  considerably  by  increasing 
the  loss  to  the  undesired  modes.  This  effect  can  be  accomplished  by  modi- 
fying the  structure  so  that  the  spurious  modes  are  highly  attenuated 
while  the  TEoi  losses  are  increased  only  slightly.  One  way  is  to  construct 


Table  II  —  Average  Performance  of  TEoi  Waveguides  with 

Mode  Filters 


a  measured  (average  db/100  ft.). 
a  measured 

a  calculated 


Vie"  I.D.  OFHC 
copper 


4.24  ±  0.1 
1.16 


W  l.p.  low  phos. 
deoxidized  copper 


0.51  ±  0.025 
1.39 


%"  I.D.  copper 
lined  steel 


0.56  ±  0.012 
1.52 


1128      THE    BELL    SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

the  waveguide  wall  with  a  series  of  disks  which  are  closely  spaced  as  shown 
in  Fig.  9  and  the  photograph  of  Fig.  10.  The  spacers  serve  a  dual  pur- 
pose; to  hold  the  disks  in  alignment  and  to  provide  loss  for  the  spurious 
modes.  The  circular  disks  provide  the  necessary  continuity  to  support  the 
TEoi  and  TE02  modes  and  the  gaps  introduce  high  resistivity  to  the  longi- 
tudinal currents  of  the  other  modes.  The  spaced-disk  filters,  which  were 
arbitrarily  designed  to  provide  a  10  db  loss  to  the  TMn  wave,  were  1  %" 
and  3  }/i"  long  for  the  Ke"  ^i^d  14,"  waveguide  sizes,  respectively.  In  the 
experiments  to  be  described,  a  mode  filter  was  inserted  at  each  joint  of 
the  line,  at  approximately  12-ft.  intervals.    , 

The  measured  attenuation  data  with  mode  filters  at  each  joint  of  the 
various  fines  are  indicated  by  the  dashed  lines  of  Fig.  8.  As  shown  the 
effect  of  the  mode  filters  is  to  reduce  the  TEoi  loss  variation  by  a  factor 
of  at  least  two. 

The  average  attenuation  is,  however,  generally  somewhat  higher  than 
for  the  unfiltered  lines.  This  higher  loss  is  partly  due  to  spurious  mode 
power  which  is  absorbed  by  the  mode  filter  and  is  not  reconverted  to 
TEoi  power  and  to  a  slight  degree  to  the  increased  TEoi  loss  introduced 
by  the  mode  filters.  These  results  are  shown  in  tabular  form  in  Table  II, 
where  the  nomenclature  is  the  same  as  in  Table  I.  Because  of  the  ex- 
cellent performance  of  the  14"  ^•^-  hi^e  (OFHC  copper)  by  itself  no  meas- 
urements with  mode  filters  were  performed  on  this  line. 

CONCLUSIONS 

The  measured  data  presented  above  indicate  the  feasibility  of  realizing 
transmission  losses  as  low  as  0.5  db/100  ft.  with  the  TEoi  mode  over  dis- 
tances up  to  several  hundred  feet.  The  transmission  variations  which 
occur  over  the  frequency  band  are  a  function  of  the  circularity  or  tol- 
erances of  the  waveguide.  In  a  particular  line  the  variations  can  be  re- 
duced considerably  by  adding  mode  filters  along  the  line.  It  is  reasonable 
to  expect  that  these  variations  can  be  reduced  further  by  adding  longer 
mode  filters  at  the  joints  or  adding  more  mode  filters  at  shorter  intervals 
along  the  line.  Oxygen  must  be  excluded  from  the  line  if  the  losses  are  to 
be  a  minimum. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The  author  wishes  to  thank  J.  W.  Bell  and  W.  E.  Whitacre  for  their 
help  in  the  measurements. 

This  study  was  carried  out  at  Holmdel  and  was  sponsored  in  part  by  a 
Joint  Service  Contract  administered  by  the  Office  of  Naval  Research, 
Contract  Nonr-687(00). 


Automatic  Testing  in  Telephone 
Manufacture 

By  D.  T.  ROBB 

(Manuscript  received  May  8,  1956) 

A  general  discussion  is  given  on  the  philosophy  behind  the  development  of 
automatic  test  facilities  and  the  relationship  of  this  activity  to  product  design 
and  manufacturing  engineering.  A  brief  historical  discussion  of  early  auto- 
matic test  machines  used  by  the  Western  Electric  Company  leads  to  a  sum- 
mary of  design  considerations.  These  considerations  are  then  illustrated  by 
descriptions  of  the  specific  techniques  used  in  three  automatic  facilities  of 
considerable  diversity. 

INTRODUCTION 

Many  of  the  parts  used  in  the  telephone  plant  are  made  in  such  num- 
bers that  automatic  shop  testing  of  them  is  desirable.  The  cost  of  manual 
testing  by  suitable  personnel  is  high,  and  its  nature  so  repetitive  and  dull 
that  accuracy  suffers.  Fortunately,  in  many  cases  the  complexity  of  the 
test  requirements  has  matched  the  state  of  the  art  and  the  business  pic- 
ture well  enough  to  warrant  the  development  of  machine  methods.  It  is 
our  purpose  in  these  articles  to  review  the  art  as  it  has  evolved  in  the 
Manufacturing  Division  of  the  Western  Electric  Company,  and  to  de- 
scribe some  of  the  techniques.  This  is  done  with  the  hope  that  improve- 
ments or  extensions  to  other  testing  or  manufacturing  problems  may  be 
suggested. 

It  should  be  emphasized  that  the  developments  treated  here  and  in 
the  other  papers^ '^  have  required  cooperation  among  testing  and  manu- 
facturing engineers  in  the  Western  and  product  design  engineers  in  the 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories.  Modifications  of  design  for  Western's  con- 
venience, changed  methods  for  translating  basic  requirements  into  man- 
ufacturing test  requirements,  informal  Laboratories  suggestions  of  ap- 
proaches to  manufacturing  and  testing  problems,  all  are  commonplace. 
The  boundaries  of  the  specialists'  domains  are  readily  crossed. 

Testing  is  a  process  for  proving  something  such  as  quality  of  a  prod- 

1129 


1130      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

uct  or  accuracy  of  a  computation.  In  one  form  or  another,  testing  is  essen- 
tial in  manufacture.  It  insures  against  further  investment  of  effort  in 
product  found  bad.  More  importantly,  it  provides  information  for  the 
manual  or  automatic  correction  of  earlier  processes,  to  prevent  manufac- 
ture of  additional  faulty  product.  Also,  its  techniques  and  devices  are 
used  in  many  applications  where  testing  is  not  the  object.  Table  I  gives  a 
listing  of  functions,  with  examples  of  some  of  our  automatic  means,  that 
illustrates  this.  Of  these,  la,  4,  and  5a  are  testing  functions.  The  remain- 
der are  manufacturing  processes. 

Table  I 

Function  Example 

1.  Sorting,  either 

a.  sorting  good  from  bad  or  A  network  testing  machine  at  Indian- 

polis.' 
A  relay  coil  test  set  at  Kearny. ^ 

b.  sorting  into  cells  for  selective  as-    A    capacitor    test    machine    at    Haw- 
sembly  thorne.^ 

2.  Adjusting:  An    adjusting   machine    for    flat    type 

resistors  at  Haverhill.* 

3.  Calibrating:  "  A    calibrating   machine    for    oscillator 

film  scales  at  Kearny.^ 

4.  Plotting  data:  Continuous  thickness  test  systems  for 

alpeth  and  stalpeth  cable  sheath  at 
Hawthorne  and  Kearny."-  ^ 

5.  Operation  of  wired  equipment,  Cardomatic  and  tape-o-matic  test  sets 

a.  to  verify  accuracy  of  wiring  or  ful-  for   key   telephone    equipments    and 
fillment  of  purpose,  and  wired  relay  units  at  Hawthorne  and 

b.  to   enable    prompt    location    and  Kearny.^-  ' 
correction  of  faults. 

GENERAL 

The  fundamental  steps  necessary  to  any  testing  operation  are: 

1 .  Putting  the  item  to  be  tested  in  location ; 

2.  Subjecting  the  item  to  a  specified  set  of  conditions; 

3.  Observing  the  results  or  the  reaction  of  the  item  to  the  conditions; 

4.  Comparing  the  observed  results  to  required  results; 

5.  Deciding  on  the  basis  of  the  comparison  what  disposition  to  make 
of  the  item; 

6.  Indicating  the  disposition; 

7.  Making  the  disposition.  (This  may  mean  transportation,  repair  or 
adjustment.) 

In  purely  manual  testing  all  of  these  steps  would  be  initiated  by  human 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTUEE  1131 

operators.  In  many  cases  it  is  feasible  for  all  steps  to  be  taken  automat- 
ically. The  bulk  of  our  accomplishment  in  automatic  testing,  however, 
has  been  in  steps  2  through  6.  We  do  not  ordinarily  use  "automatic"  to 
describe  rudimentary  automaticity  in  combinations  among  steps  3,  4, 
and  5. 

The  present  models  of  many  of  our  machines  have  evolved  from  earlier 
models,  either  because  of  changed  product  or  test  requirements  or 
through  improved  designs  worked  out  for  plant  expansion  or  cost  reduc- 
tion. The  names  of  engineers  associated  with  the  various  developments 
mentioned  are  included  in  the  references.  About  1927  there  were  put  in 
use  at  Hawthorne  two  machines,  one  for  gaging  a  number  of  critical 
dimensions  and  performing  a  breakdown  test  on  carbon  protector 
blocks,^"  and  the  other  for  heat  coils.^^  In  the  protector  block  machine 
the  blocks  follow  a  linear  course  drawn  by  an  indexing  chain  conveyor 
through  a  number  of  positions  where  the  various  checks  are  performed. 
Failure  of  any  block  at  a  position  causes  a  jet  of  air  to  blow  the  block 
into  the  opening  of  a  chute  which  conducts  it  to  a  reject  pan.  Good  blocks 
are  delivered  into  a  pan  at  the  end  of  the  run.  The  heat  coil  machine  has 
an  indexing  turret  over  a  ring  of  ports  which  open  selectively  to  permit 
good  or  rejected  coils  to  fall  into  chutes.  The  test  parameters  are  three 
,<!;aged  dimensions  and  dc  resistance. 

In  1929  a  machine  with  an  indexing  turret  was  put  in  use,  testing  paper 
capacitors  for  dielectric  strength  and  leakage  resistance,^^  and  sorting 
them  into  13  cells  for  capacitance  grouped  around  a  nominal  1  mf.  The 
13  cells  correspond  to  13  segments  in  a  commutator  disposed  along  the 
scale  of  a  microfarad  meter.  For  a  given  test  capacitor,  when  the  meter 
needle  reaches  its  deflection  a  bow  depresses  it  against  the  nearest  seg- 
ment, establishing  a  circuit  through  a  relay.  A  system  of  relays  then 
locks  up  and  serves  as  a  memory  to  operate  a  solenoid  later  when  the 
turret  has  brought  the  capacitor  to  the  point  of  disposition.  Action  of 
the  proper  solenoid  causes  the  capacitor  to  be  deposited  in  its  cell.  The 
cells  are  arranged  as  parallel  files  in  a  horizontal  plane  and,  starting  with 
the  cells  empty,  the  machine  will  in  effect  produce  a  stovepipe  distribu- 
tion curve.  Capacitors  from  the  middle  cell  and  its  upper  neighbors  may 
be  used  as  1  mf  capacitors,  and  those  from  more  remote  cells  combined, 
large  with  small,  to  make  2-mf  capacitors. 

Also  in  1929  a  turret  type  machine  was  first  used  for  sorting  mica  lam- 
inations. ^^  The  sorting  parameter  was  ac  dielectric  strength,  the  criterion 
being  failure  at  1760  volts  r.m.s.  The  individual  laminations  were  carried 
from  position  to  position  by  vacuum  fingers  mounted  on  a  turret.  Again 
locking  relays  were  used,  in  this  case  to  operate  a  solenoid  controlled 


1132      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

valve  in  the  vacuum  line  at  the  right  time  in  the  turret  indexing  cycle  to 
drop  the  laminations  as  class  "A"  or  "B"  mica. 

Experience  with  these  machines  and  with  others  that  followed  brought 
into  being  a  more  or  less  orderly  body  of  knowledge  as  to  what  features 
are  desirable  and  what  constitutes  good  design  in  an  automatic  test  ma- 
chine. 

If  the  machine  is  to  have  speed,  reliability  and  long  life,  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  following  matters: 

1.  Reduction  of  the  test  process  time  to  as  low  a  figure  as  the  capabilities 
and  use  of  the  product  will  permit.  Thus,  if  one  of  the  requirements  of  a 
capacitor  is  a  maximum  limit  on  its  leakage  current  measured  after  a 
charge  time  of  60  seconds,  and  if  the  material  sand  manufacturing  process 
are  such  that  a  unit  is  surely  good  or  bad  after  a  25-second  charge,  then 
the  machine  may  be  designed  to  charge  for,  say,  30  seconds.  Frequently 
the  only  limitation  is  the  speed  of  the  machine  itself.  When  this  is  true, 
it  must  be  worked  out  so  as  to  satisfy  the  needed  production  rate.  Obvi- 
ously the  machine  should  satisfy  the  rate  of  the  line  it  serves,  or  more 
than  one  machine  should  be  provided. 

2.  Rationalization  of  the  number  of  test  positions  in  the  machine  with  the 
production  rate  and  the  total  test  process  time.  This  requires  breaking  the 
test  time  down  into  bits  equal  to  the  desired  output  cycle.  In  the  example 
above,  if  the  output  needed  is  a  capacitor  every  5  seconds  then  the  30-sec- 
ond  charge  will  have  to  extend  over  6  positions. 

3.  Ruggedness.  This  must  be  stressed,  even  at  the  expense  of  space, 
power  consumption,  and  dollars  of  first  cost.  If  a  project  is  large  enough 
to  justify  automatic  test  facilities,  then  any  down  time  associated  with 
it  will  be  expensive.  A  good  mechanical  design  is  essential. 

4.  Provision  of  self -stopping  and  alarm  features  to  serve  in  the  event  of 
certain  types  of  failure.  A  limited  torque  clutch  in  the  main  drive  will  pre- 
vent jamming  and  damage  caused  by  parts  getting  into  the  wrong  places, 
or  in  certain  applications  overload  cutouts  will  suffice.  Gong  and  lamp 
alarms  are  desirable  to  attract  attention.  The  point  is  that  allowance 
must  be  made  for  mishaps  which,  without  precautions,  could  result  in 
shutdowns  of  the  equipment. 

5.  Provisions  of  adequate  checking  for  accuracy.  Accessible  check  points 
and  suitable  easy-to-use  standards  are  essential.  Checking  intervals  are 
determined  by  experience,  but  schedules  should  be  laid  out  to  cause  as 
Hi  tic  interference  with  use  as  possible.  Where  practicable  there  may  be 
means  for  self-checking  in  the  regular  operation  of  the  machine.  In  this 
case,  periodic  checking  of  the  checking  devices  themselves  is  necessary. 

6.  Incorporation  of  features  in  the  product  and  in  the  handling  methods 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE  1133 

that  will  facilitate  feed  automatic  testing.  This  requires  the  cooperation  of 
the  product  design  and  product  manufacturing  interests.  It  is  almost 
axiomatic  that  automation  in  manufacture  requires  special  consideration 
in  product  design.  Automatic  testing  imposes  the  same  requirement.  A 
notch  or  a  lug  may  be  needed  for  proper  use  of  automatic  feed  devices, 
or  terminals  may  have  to  be  properly  chosen.  Again,  the  method  of  trans- 
port from  the  previous  operation  needs  to  be  studied,  rationalized,  and 
fully  agreed  upon.  If  continuous  conveyor  transportation  can  be  justified, 
so  much  the  better.  In  the  consideration  of  conveyor  feed,  the  need  for 
time  flexibility  must  not  be  overlooked.  It  is  important  that  provision  be 
made  for  easy  storage  of  product  whenever  the  test  machine  is  inopera- 
tive, lest  a  breakdown  of  this  machine  shut  down  the  entire  line. 

7.  Arrangement  of  the  events  in  the  operating  cycle  in  such  a  way  that 
their  sequence  is  reliably  self  determined .  This  is  comparatively  straight- 
forward when  the  programming  is  done  by  gear  driven  cams  or  other 
mechanical  means.  It  requires  care  when  switching  logic  is  used.  Switch- 
ing engineers  are  familiar  with  the  phenomena  known  as  "relay  races" 
and  "sneak  circuits."  These  have  psychophysical  analogies  wherever 
humans  and  machines  work  together.  The  prevention  of  both  the  switch- 
ing errors  and  their  analogs  is  essential  in  automatic  test  set  design.  Inter- 
locks must  be  provided  against  any  conceivable  mishap. 

8.  Enough  margin  and  design  flexibility  in  electrical  and  mechanical 
parameters  to  cope  with  reasonable  variations  in  product  design.  Improve- 
ments are  constantly  being  made  in  telephone  apparatus  and  equipment, 
and  these  occasionally  result  in  major  redesigns  or  in  entirely  new  sys- 
tems. Also  the  need  for  adding  new  features  to  a  historical  complex  of 
existing  telephone  plant  causes  the  generation  of  an  endless  variety  of 
special  equipments.  The  product  designer  needs  as  much  freedom  as  we 
can  afford.  There  has  to  be  enough  flexibility  in  the  costly  automatic 
test  sets  to  permit  adaptation  as  new  designs  of  product  come  along. 

These  considerations  are  in  addition  to  the  fundamental  matters  of 
personnel  safety  and  comfort,  motion  economy,  quietness  and  appear- 
ance. 

While  dealing  with  general  considerations  we  must  recognize  one  im- 
portant difference  between  the  product  design  and  the  facilities  design 
problems.  In  product  design  there  is  a  premium  on  optimization  of  pa- 
rameters, or  striving  toward  perfection.  There  is  generally  also  oppor- 
tunity for  winning  this  premium  on  later  tries  even  though  the  rush  for 
first  production  may  have  denied  it  to  us  in  the  original  design.  In  facili- 
ties design  there  is  no  such  premium  and  frequently  no  such  opportunity. 
While  careful  design  is  very  important,  the  real  premium  here  is  on  a 


1134      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,   SEPTEMBER    1956 


a 
o 


■/3 

a; 


3 

if 
<u 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN  TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE  1135 

device  that  will  do  the  required  job  and  that  can  be  put  in  use  in  time 
for  early  production.  Once  the  facility  is  in  use  it  may  be  starting  on  a 
productive  life  that  will  run  thirt}^  years  or  longer.  The  designer  may 
think  of  countless  ways  to  improve  it  or  to  redesign  it  completely.  If  his 
improvements  or  redesign  can  be  proved  in  on  a  business  basis,  they  may 
be  undertaken.  Sometimes  the}^  cannot  be  proved  in.  The  evolution  that 
has  taken  place  in  test  set  designs  has  been  possible  mainly  because  the 
customers  have  wanted  newer  products,  or  products  delivered  at  a  greater 
rate.  Advancement  has  been  attained  under  a  compulsion  to  take  each 
step  ciuickly  and  siu'ely.  This  has  represented  a  real  and  continuing  chal- 
lenge to  the  test  engineering  force. 

With  these  general  considerations  in  mind  the  author  has  chosen  three 
automatic  testing  devices  of  diverse  character  to  discuss  in  some  detail. 
The  associated  papers^'  ^  cover  additional  machines.  The  machines  de- 
scribed illustrate  in  various  ways  the  principles  discussed  above. 

THE    NETWORK   TESTING    MACHINE    AT    INDIANAPOLIS^ 

The  425B  network^^  is  used  in  the  500  series  telephone  sets  to  furnish 
the  transmission  link  between  the  handset  and  the  line.  Its  shop  testing 
requires  three  tests  for  transmission,  three  for  capacitance  tolerance, 
three  for  leakage  current,  two  for  ac  dielectric  strength,  one  for  dc  dielec- 
tric strength  and  four  for  continuity.  The  rotating  turret  type  test  ma- 
chine (Figs.  1  and  2)  performs  all  these  tests,  applies  a  conditioning 
"burnout"  voltage  and  counts  and  date  stamps  the  good  networks. 
Rejects  from  each  test  position  are  segregated  in  roller  conveyors. 
In  the  rotation  of  the  turret  an  empty  test  fixture  is  presented  to  the 
operator  every  3^^  seconds  moving  from  left  to  right.  She  must  load  each 
position,  taking  networks  from  the  pans  at  her  right;  good  networks, 
ejected  automatically  in  a  roller  chute  at  the  left,  are  hand  loaded  into 
the  carriage  fixtures  of  the  overhead  storage  type  conveyor,  which  pass 
within  easy  reach  of  the  operator's  left  hand.  The  pans  at  the  left  are 
used  to  store  good  networks  when  the  accessible  fixtures  of  the  overhead 
conveyor  are  full.  The  twelve  roller  conveyors  for  rejected  networks  are 
arranged  along  the  sides  of  the  machine,  six  on  each  side. 

The  turret  contains  forty  test  fixtures  (Fig.  3  and  4)  and  the  machine 
forty  positions.  The  turret  rotates  continuously,  causing  eleven  contact 
brushes  associated  with  each  fixture  to  pass  against  fixed  commutator 
segments  and  a  ground  ring  associated  with  the  test  positions.  As  each 
fixture  advances  past  one  test  position  a  gear  connected  cam  shaft  rotates 
through  a  complete  cycle.  Seventeen  switches  are  operated  by  the  cams 


1130      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


•-  *•«!»' ■^J^TTT' 


Fig.  2  —  The  network  test  machine. 


to  assure  the  proper  sequence  and  timing  of  the  conditioning  and  testing 
events  occurring  at  the  various  positions.  Table  II  shows  the  order  of  the 
positions  and  the  approximate  timing,  with  respect  to  cam  rotation.  The 
result  of  the  test  at  each  test  position  is  remembered  by  a  self-locking 
relay  until  the  fixture  comes  just  opposite  the  entrance  to  the  correspond- 
ing rejection  chute.  At  that  instant  a  cam  switch  closes  and  causes  re- 
jection if  the  test  result  was  a  failure.  Unloading  into  the  rejection  chutes 
is  effected  by  compressed  air  operated  cylinders  as  explained  below. 

The  clamping  movement  of  each  fixture  as  it  leaves  the  loading  area 
(entering  position  7)  is  driven  by  a  helical  spring  which  lowers  the  con- 
tact fixture  over  the  terminals  of  the  network,  bringing  spring  loaded 
plungers  into  contact  with  the  terminals.  (See  Fig.  3)  At  a  rejection  loca- 
tion a  plunger  rises,  driven  by  an  air  (cylinder  under  the  control  of  a  sole- 
noid operated  valve.  The  rising  of  the  plunger  first  forces  the  fixture  to 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTUKE 


1137 


unclamp  against  the  compression  of  the  helical  spring,  and  then  operates 
an  ejection  arm  which  drives  the  network  horizontally  out  of  the  fixture. 
The  top  rollers  of  several  of  these  ejection  arms  can  be  seen  in  the  fixtures 
at  the  front  of  the  machine  in  Fig.  2. 

The  measuring  circuits  associated  with  the  various  test  positions  are 
straightforward.  If  there  is  a  dielectric  failure  in  one  of  the  breakdown 
tests  at  position  8  or  9,  the  current  through  a  relay  coil  in  series  with  the 


C>^ 


CABLE  TO 
BRUSHES 


Fig.  3  —  Test  fixture,  loaded. 


1138      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

test  exceeds  a  predetermined  value.  This  causes  another  relay  to  lock  up 
and  remember  the  faihu'e  until  the  network  reaches  the  reject  location. 
In  a  typical  transmission  test  position  (Position  10,  35  or  36)  a  fixed- 
voltage,  swept-frequency  signal,  300  to  3,500  c.p.s.,  is  impressed  across 
two  terminals  of  the  network.  The  three  tests  are  for  transmission  and 
short  and  long  hne  sidetone  with  suitable  terminations  connected  as  in 
actual  use.  In  each  case  the  signal  from  two  output  terminals  should  be 
less  than  or  greater  than  a  specified  value.  This  signal  is  amplified  and  fed 


Fig.  4  —  Test  fixture,  unloaded. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE 


1139 


to  a  sensitrol  relay,  which  is  mechanically  biased  in  amount  and  sense  to 
correspond  to  the  limit.  If  the  sensitrol  operates  it  prevents  rejection. 

In  the  three  capacitance  test  positions  12,  13,  and  14,  capacitors  in 
the  networks  are  connected  into  a  60  c.p.s.  comparison  bridge.  The  out- 
put signal  from  the  bridge  is  amplified  and  rectified,  and  impressed  on  a 
balanced  dc  amplifier  which  drives  a  sensitrol  relay.  If  the  bridge  is  out 
of  balance  (that  is  if  the  capacitance  is  greater  or  less  than  nominal)  cur- 
rent flows  in  the  relay,  but  always  in  the  same  sense.  If  the  current  in  the 
relay  exceeds  an  amount  corresponding  to  either  capacitance  limit,  re- 
jection occurs.  Determination  of  which  capacitance  limit  was  violated  is 
done  manually  in  a  separate  analysis  of  defects.  It  may  be  observed  also 
that  any  rejection  at  the  capacitance  positions  could  have  been  caused 
by  a  loss  unbalance  of  the  bridge.  If  the  conductance  of  the  test  capacitor 
were  such  as  to  cause  this  it  would  so  appear  in  the  separate  analysis, 
mentioned  above.  The  effect  of  any  ordinary  conductance  deviation  at 
60  c.p.s.  is  neghgible.  Quality  is  protected  by  the  fact  that  a  conductance 
deviation  could  not  cause  an  out-of -limit  capacitor  to  be  accepted. 

Considerable  pains  are  taken  at  each  capacitance  test  position  to  pre- 
vent damage  to  the  equipment  from  various  kinds  of  mishaps.  The  sen- 
sitive winding  of  the  sensitrol  is  short  circuited  at  all  times  except  for 
about  0.2  second  when  the  actual  test  is  performed.  This  prevents  dam- 
age and  erroneous  rejections  that  would  otherwise  be  caused  by  switching 

Table  II  —  Sequence  of  Events  in  Network  Test  Machine 


CAM  ROTATION  — 

(TWELFTHS  OF  A  POSITION) 


POSITION 

PROCESS         C 

) 

2 

4 

6 

8 

10 

12 

1    TO   6 

LOAD 

1 

7 

BURNOUT 

DISCHGl 

8 

AC   BKDN. 

TEST- 

'P 

7KV) 

O  - 

-  Ill  - 

-» 
UJ  - 

* 

9 

DC   BKDN. 

TEST- 

10 

TRANSMISSION  1 

1  , 

TEST- 

II 

DISCHARGE 

1 

12 

CAPACITANCE    1 

^CIRCUIT  SETUP-^ 

lESTJ^ 

M 

iMORY 4 

13 

2 

II 

M 

11 

14 

3 

■1 

H 

II 

15 

BURNOUT 

-CHA 

R6E- 

DISCHGl       1 

16  TO  31 
(1  MINUTE) 

CHARGE  FOR 
LEAKAGE  TEST 

-  C^Anuc 

32 

LEAKAGE     1 

TEST 

33 

2 

II 

34 

3 

II 

35 

TRANSMISSION  2 

II 

36 

3 

M 

37 

CONTINUITY 

>-  TEST  4  CIRCUITS    AT  ONCE  - 

^ 

38 

UNLOAD 

—UNLOAD 

39 

RESET 

40 

LOAD 

1 

<l 

1140      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

transients  from  this  and  other  circuits.  During  the  short  interval  of  actual 
test  no  other  switching  takes  place  in  the  machine. 

A  fixture  that  has  no  network  because  of  rejection  at  an  earlier  test 
position  or  because  of  operator  failure  to  load  it,  would  cause  open  circuit 
in  one  bridge  arm  on  capacitance  test.  Without  intervention  this  would 
cause  a  violent  unbalancing  of  the  bridge,  overloading  of  the  detector 
system  and  possible  damage  to  the  sensitrol.  Ordinary  methods  of  limit- 
ing the  overload  signal  would  be  only  partially  effective  and  would  de- 
tract from  the  sensitivity.  To  forestall  this  trouble  from  empty  fixtures, 
each  capacitance  test  position  is  equipped  with  a  microswitch  which  is 
operated  by  a  dog  at  the  bottom  end  of  the  ejection  arm  of  any  empy  fix- 
ture (Fig.  3).  When  the  microswitch  operates  it  causes  the  bridge  to  be 
disconnected  from  the  test  leads  and  connected  to  a  capacitor  that  is  just 
out  of  limits,  several  tenths  of  a  second  before  the  removal  of  the  short 
circuit  from  the  sensitrol.  Then  w'hen  the  test  is  made  it  results  in  a  re- 
jection. 

There  is  also  an  interlock  circuit  which  will  stop  the  machine  if  a  failure 
of  the  bridge  and  detector  system  causes  an  empty  fixture  not  to  show 
rejection.  This  serves  as  a  random  occasional  check  on  the  functioning 
of  the  circuit. 

The  conditioning  of  the  three  capacitors  for  the  leakage  current  tests 
l)egins  at  position  16.  Because  of  charging  and  absorption  currents  ob- 
scuring the  effect  of  pure  leakage,  the  test  for  leakage  is  made  to  an  arbi- 
trary current  limit  specified  at  one  minute  of  charge.  To  insure  that  good 
units  pass  the  test,  it  is  desirable  to  use  the  whole  minute.  But  if  the  leak- 
age current  reading  is  taken  after  more  than  a  minute  of  charge,  quality 
is  jeopardized.  Accordingly  it  is  necessary  to  make  sure  that  the  charge 
is  for  a  minute  and  no  longer  on  each  capacitor.  Therefore,  at  position  16 
the  first  unit  is  put  on  charge,  at  17  the  second,  and  at  18  the  third.  Then 
at  position  32  the  first  unit  is  tested  while  the  other  two  remain  on  charge. 
At  33  the  first  unit  is  discharged,  the  second  tested,  and  so  on. 

The  leakage  test  itself  is  made  by  measuring  the  voltage  across  a  large 
resistor  in  series  with  the  test  capacitor  and  a  dc  voltage  source.  The 
energy  in  this  signal  is  small  and  must  be  amplified  before  there  is  enough 
to  operate  a  sensitrol.  A  dc  amplifier  with  high  input  impedance  is  used 
for  this  purpose.  In  addition  the  mechanical  bias  of  the  sensitrol  is  kept 
small  to  increase  sensitivity,  and  a  carefully  controlled  dc  biasing  source 
is  used  to  insure  accuracy  and  stability. 

At  position  37  three  capacitors  and  a  coil  ^\•inding  are  given  a  final 
check  for  contirmity.  The  test  of  the  winding  is  made  by  connecting  it  in 
series  with  a  relay  coil  (say  No.  1)  and  battery.  If  current  passes,  relay 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE  1141 

No.  1  operates.  The  three  capacitors  are  tested  simultaneously  by  con- 
necting each  of  them  in  series  with  an  8,000  c.p.s.  source  and  detectors. 
The  detectors  consist  of  bridge  type  rectifiers  and  relays.  If  all  of  these 
three  relays  operate,  a  series  connection  through  their  closed  contacts 
causes  another  relay  to  operate  and  lock  up.  Finallj^  this  relay  when 
operated  has  open  contacts  in  parallel  with  open  contacts  on  relaj^  No.  1, 
so  that  when  the  reject  cam  closes  it  finds  an  open  circuit  and  rejection 
does  not  occvu*. 

The  reader  may  question  the  necessity  for  continuity  tests  on  capaci- 
tors that  have  already  been  tested  for  capacitance.  Perhaps  the  most 
convincing  answer  is  that  there  is  an  occasional  failure  on  the  continuity 
test.  Telephone  apparatus  is  always  exposed  to  more  severe  conditions 
in  test  than  it  will  encounter  in  ordinary  use.  The  leakage  resistance 
charge  and  test  operations  and  the  transmission  tests  can  on  rare  oc- 
casions cause  the  metallized  connections  at  the  ends  of  the  capacitors  to 
open.  As  the  cost  of  making  the  final  continuity  test  is  vanishingly  small, 
the  additional  insurance  is  economical. 

The  detail  list  of  checking  standards  for  this  machine  contains  some 
twenty  items.  Most  of  them  are  modified  425B  networks,  specially  ar- 
ranged in  one  way  or  another  to  check  certain  functions  of  the  machine. 
These  are  used  right  in  the  individual  fixtures. 

It  is  interesting  to  reflect  on  the  labor  saving  virtues  of  this  machine. 
The  operator  in  one  eight  hour  shift  handles  over  five  tons  of  networks. 
She  does  it  easily  and  without  fatigue.  The  testing  would  not  be  even 
attempted  on  a  manual  basis,  because  over  and  above  multiple  handlings, 
the  added  human  effort  of  closing  fixtures,  operating  switches  and  the 
like  could  not  be  tolerated. 

In  contrast  to  the  multiposition  set  described  above,  it  is  instructive 
to  consider  two  single  position  sets  of  diverse  character.  They  are  a  relay 
coil  test  set  and  a  film  scale  calibrating  set. 

THE    RELAY    COIL   TEST    SET   AT    KEARNY^ 

Coil  assemblies  for  the  U,  Y  and  UA  types  of  relays^^  are  tested  for  dc 
resistance,  direction  of  winding  and  breakdown  before  assembly  into 
complete  relays.  INIany  thousands  of  the  relays  are  used  in  any  crossbar 
office.  Minimum  and  maximum  tolerance  limits  arc  placed  on  their  wind- 
ing resistances,  to  control  cinnulative  current  requirements  and  to  insure 
a  proper  margin  of  relay  operation.  Each  coil  assembly,  as  presented  to 
the  test  position,  consists  of  a  magnetic  core,  a  solenoidal  winding  assem- 
bly and  a  terminal  assembly.  A  winding  assembly  may  have  one,  two  or 


'ukI^hK^^ 


Fig.  5  —  Relay  coil  test  set  control  panel. 
1142 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE  1143 

three  windings  (called  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary).  The  primary 
and  secondary  are  wired  to  corresponding  pairs  of  terminals  on  the  ter- 
minal assembly,  while  the  tertiary  leads  at  this  stage  are  not  on  terminals 
and  must  be  connected  to  the  test  contact  fixture  by  hand. 

Direction  of  winding  is  important  in  the  multiwinding  coils  because  of 
external  fields  and  the  fact  that  the  relays  are  required  to  respond  to 
currents  in  more  than  one  winding  and  the  proper  direction  of  flow  in 
each,  relative  to  the  other,  must  be  known.  In  some  relays  one  or  two 
of  the  windings  may  be  noninductively  wound,  to  serve  merely  as  resis- 
tors. Also,  many  windings  are  wound  part  copper  and  part  resistance 
wire  to  obtain  the  desired  resistance  without  unnecessary  increase  in 
copper,  inductance  and  response  time.  In  such  cases  the  percentages  of 
copper  and  resistance  wire  are  known.  This  is  important  because  of  the 
effect  of  temperature  on  the  resistivity  of  copper.  Resistance  tolerances 
on  the  test  windings  are  specified  at  68°F,  but  shop  testing  is  done  at  any 
value  of  room  temperature.  The  effect  of  the  difference  on  copper  is  seri- 
ous enough  to  cause  errors  larger  than  some  of  the  tolerances,  and  the 
effect  on  resistance  wire  may  be  neglected.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to 
have  the  test  set  compensated  for  temperature  in  such  a  way  as  to  allow 
for  the  proportions  of  copper  and  reistance  wire. 

The  coil  test  set  (Fig.  5)  tests  all  windings  for  resistance  and  direction 
of  winding  and  for  breakdown  to  each  other  and  the  core.  The  maximum 
total  test  time  for  three-winding  coils  is  less  than  3  seconds  under  normal 
conditions.  A  borderline  winding  resistance  will  cause  some  delay.  There 
are  lamps  to  indicate  the  type  of  failure  on  a  rejection.  Other  lamps  indi- 
cate satisfaction  of  the  requirements.  At  the  completion  of  test  on  a  good 
coil  an  "OK"  lamp  lights  on  the  test  fixture,  so  that  the  operator  need 
look  at  the  set  itself  only  when  there  is  a  rejection. 

Requirements  data  are  stored  in  the  set  before  a  given  code  of  coil  is 
tested.  The  codes  come  to  the  set  in  batches,  so  that  one  setup  will  serve 
for  a  large  number  of  coils.  Three  six-decade  resistance  standards  are 
set  to  the  nominal  values  for  the  respective  windings.  If  there  are  fewer 
than  three  windings,  a  key  is  operated  to  disable  bridges  and  furnish 
substitute  continuity  paths.  The  percentage  tolerances  for  the  windings 
are  set  on  selector  switches:  ±1,  2,  5,  10  and  15  per  cent  tolerances  are 
available.  Also,  the  known  percentages  of  resistance  wire  in  the  windings 
are  set  on  selector  switches  in  steps  of  5  per  cent  from  0  to  100.  Keys  are 
operated  to  warn  the  set  of  noninductive  windings  and  bypass  the  direc- 
tion of  winding  circuits  as  needed. 

Once  a  coil  is  placed  and  connected  in  the  test  fixture  and  the  fixture 
closed  by  operation  of  a  pedal,  the  test  is  automatic  up  to  the  point  where 


1144      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

the  operator  must  make  disposition.  The  sequence  of  events  within  the 
set  is  controlled  by  a  switching  circuit  containing  thirty  telephone  relays, 
a  sensitrol  relay  and  two  electron  tubes.  The  sensitrol  is  used  in  succession 
to  detect  the  existence  and  sense  of  unbalance  of  six  dc  bridge  circuits 
(high  and  low  limit  for  each  of  three  windings) .  The  operation  sequence 
for  primary  windings  is  shown  in  Table  III. 

Fig.  6(a),  shows  schematically  a  typical  bridge  arrangement  for  testing 
a  winding  at  one  tolerance  limit.  A  and  B  correspond  to  the  ratio  arms 
of  an  ordinary  Wheatstone  bridge,  and  are  nominally  1,000  ohms  each. 
The  temperature  compensation  referred  to  above  is  obtained  by  including 
the  same  resistance  percentage  (within  2.5  per  cent)  of  copper  in  the  A 
arm  of  the  bridge  as  there  is  known  to  be  in  the  winding.  Inspection  of 
the  bridge  balance  equation  in  Fig.  6(a)  will  show  that  an  error  in  X  could 
be  compensated  by  a  proportional  error  in  either  A  or  C.  A  is  chosen  as 
the  compensating  arm  because  of  its  simplicity.  It  has  available  twenty 
resistors  of  copper  and  twenty  of  low  temperature  coefficient  resistance 
wire.  Each  resistor  is  50  ohms,  measured  at  68°F.  The  selector  switch  is 
arranged  so  that  the  arm  always  has  tw^enty  resistors,  the  indicated  per- 
centage being  resistance  wire. 

For  proper  compensation  it  is  necessary  that  the  A  arm  be  as  near  am- 
bient temperature  and  the  temperature  of  the  coils  as  possible.  The  di- 

Table  III  —  Sequence  of  Events  in  Test  of  Primary  Winding 
FOR  High  Limit  Resistance 


"ok"  LAMP 

STEP 

DEFECT  LAMP 

POWER  SWITCH  CLOSED 

SENSITROL  RESETS  AND   HOLDS 

OPERATOR   CLOSES  FIXTURE 

FIXTURE  START  SWITCH  CLOSES 

CONTINUITY  TEST  -   ALL  WINDINGS 

"P  OPEN"    ETC. 

"HIGH"  B  ARM  CONNECTED  TO  PRI.  BRIDGE 

SENSITROL  RESET  RELEASED 

SENSITROL  OPERATES 

"HIGH" 

"LOW"B  ARM  CONNECTED  TO  PRI.   BRIDGE 

BREAKDOWN  TEST  ON   PRIMARY 

"BREAKDOWN" 

SENSITROL  RESETS  AND  HOLDS 

SENSITROL  RESET  RELEASED 

"P  RES.  GOOD" 

SENSITROL  OPERATES 

"LOW" 

DIRECTION  OF  WINDING  DETECTOR  ENABLED 

D.C.  POWER  DISCONNECTED  FROM  PRIMARY  BRIDGE 

INDUCED  VOLTAGE  IN  PICKUP  COIL 

"P  DIR.  OF  WDG.  DEFECT" 

("OK") 

SENSITROL  RESETS  AND  HOLDS 

V 

"HIGH"B  ARM  CONNECTED  TO  SEC.  BRIDGE 

\ 

(SECONDARY  TEST  PROCEEDS;     SIMILAR   TO 
PRIMARY) 

/FOR  SINGLE -WINDING  COILN 

\LAMP  ON    FIXTURE  LIGHTS/ 

AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE 


1145 


AT   BALANCE: 

BX  =  CA 

A  =  I000^AT68°F 
1000 

I  ±.OI(TOL.%) 
C  =  NOM.RES.  OF  X 

(2-^ TO  35K) 
X=    WINDING  RES. 


TO  CIRCUITS 
FOR    FOLLOWING 
TESTS 


UNLOCK 


(B) 

Fig.  6  —  Circuits  used  in  Relay  Coil  Test  Set.  (a),  resistance  bridge,  simpli- 
fied schematic;  (b)  continuity,  simplified  schematic. 


1146      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

vision  into  twenty  resistors  helps  in  this  by  maintaining  high  effectiveness 
of  dissipation.  In  addition,  the  automatic  switching  circuits  are  arranged 
to  keep  the  duty  cycle  of  current  in  the  bridge  arms  low. 

The  B  arm  of  the  bridge  is  selected  by  the  setting  of  the  percentage 
tolerance  switch.  Each  resistor  is  used  alone  and  consists  of  low  tempera- 
ture coefficient  resistance  wire  as  in  standard  bridge  practise.  The  value 
of  each  resistor  in  ohms  is  1 ,000  divided  by  one  plus  or  minus  the  corre- 
sponding tolerance  fraction.  Thus,  for  ±1  per  cent  tolerances  the  re- 
sistors are  1,000/1.01  (  =  990.0)  and  1,000/0.99  (  =  1010.1),  respectively. 
One  setting  of  the  switch  indicates  zero  tolerance  and  is  equipped  with 
1,000-ohm  resistors  to  permit  easy  checking  of  the  C  arm  precision. 

The  six-decade  standard  resistor  in  the  C  arm,  which  is  set  to  the  nom- 
inal value  of  the  test  winding,  is  of  a  high  quality  commercial  type  with 
a  range  of  0  to  40,000  ohms  in  steps  of  0.1  ohm.  Because  the  C  and  X  arms 
may  contain  values  as  low  as  2  ohms,  no  relay  contacts  are  used  in  them. 
Relay  switching  is  done  in  the  A  and  B  arms  where  the  resistances  are 
always  of  the  order  of  1,000  ohms  and  small  variations  in  contact  resist- 
ance are  negligible.  The  more  stable  wiping  contacts  of  selector  switches 
do  appear  in  the  X  arm.  These  switches  permit  any  contact  in  the  test 
fixture  to  be  connected  to  any  bridge  terminal,  to  enhance  flexibility. 

A  continuity  test  on  all  windings,  before  resistance  test,  is  desirable 
for  two  reasons.  The  effect  on  the  sensitrol  of  the  severe  bridge  unbalance 
caused  by  an  open  winding  would  be  life-shortening  and  is  to  be  avoided 
if  possible.  Also,  the  result  of  the  resistance  test  would  only  show  high 
resistance,  and  separate  analysis  would  be  needed  to  reveal  that  a  wind- 
ing was  open.  The  continuity  test  circuit  in  Fig.  6(b)  was  devised  to  prove 
continuity  for  windings  having  resistance  values  as  high  as  35,000  ohms. 
A  relay  (UA-104)  was  chosen  which  is  sensitive  enough  to  close  a  pair 
of  "preliminary  make"  contacts  (m)  on  0.005  ampere,  and  which  pro- 
vides the  number  of  other  contacts  needed  to  satisfy  circuit  requirements. 
When  the  test  winding  is  connected  at  X,  the  currents  through  it  and 
the  100,000  ohms  combine  to  equal  0.005  ampere  or  more.  This  closes  m, 
connecting  the  20,000-ohm  resistor  in  parallel  with  the  100,000  ohms, 
thus  locking  the  relay  and  assuring  that  all  the  other  contacts  operate. 
In  the  act  of  proving  continuity,  the  relay  disconnects  itself  from  the 
test  winding  and  remains  locked.  The  make  contacts  shown  at  the  right 
end  of  the  relay  symbol  are  in  series  with  similar  contacts  on  the  con- 
tinuity relays  for  the  other  two  test  windings,  and  when  all  are  closed 
they  pass  operating  current  to  a  relay  which  initiates  the  first  resistance 
test  (for  primary  high  limit). 

In  the  direction  of  winding  circuit.  Fig.  7(a),  it  is  necessary  to  have  a 
negative  pulse  from  the  pickup  coil,  in  the  test  fixture,  cause  the  313CA 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN  TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE 


1147 


gas  tube  to  fire  and  the  relay  to  operate.  The  circuit  is  designed  to  handle 
a  wide  range  of  pulse  amplitudes.  The  VR  tube  Hmits  negative  pulses  to 
90  volts  to  protect  the  6AK5.  The  varistor  dissipates  positive  pulses  and 
prevents  any  false  acceptance  that  might  be  caused  by  damped  oscilla- 
tions following  a  positive  pulse.  The  6AK5  furnishes  the  needed  sensi- 
tivity for  small  pulses. 
Occasionally  a  winding  will  have  a  value  of  resistance  just  equal  to 


.5MEG 

I— vw 


+  130 


PICKUP   COIL 
30,000  TURNS 
ON   PERMALLOY 


50  K 


Mitt 


QUENCH 


CIRCUIT 
FOR  NEXT 
TEST 


UNLOCK 


AAA/ M 55V.  AC      l^c.T.    GROUNDED 


/ONE   SIDE   OF    IIOV.  AC\ 


(A) 


^; 


SENSITROL 

RESET    <|_r 
SOLENOID   -•    P 


50MF-r 


SLOW 
RELEASE 
3  SEC. 


20  K 


1 


(B) 


Fig.  7  —  Circuits  used  in  relay  coil  test  set.  (a),  direction  of  winding,  simpli- 
fied schematic;  (b)  anti-stall,  simplified  schematic. 


1148      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

its  upper  or  lower  tolerance  limit.  On  the  corresponding  resistance  test, 
the  sensitrol  will  balance  and  not  operate  either  way.  Without  an  anti- 
stall  device  the  test  cycle  would  then  be  stalled  until  the  balance  failed. 
Current  flowing  through  the  A  arm  would  eventually  heat  it  up  and 
vitiate  the  temperature  compensation  feature.  The  anti-stall  circuit  in 
Fig.  7(b)  is  essentially  a  slow  release  device  to  which  external  energy  is 
interrupted  at  the  same  time  as  the  sensitrol  reset  is  released.  Energy 
stored  in  the  50-mf  capacitor  prevents  release  of  the  relay  for  about  3 
seconds,  long  after  the  bridge  test  is  ordinarily  finished.  If  at  release  the 
bridge  is  still  balanced,  a  50,000-ohm  resistor  is  thrown  in  parallel  with 
that  ratio  arm  which  will  make  the  sensitrol  accept  the  test  winding. 
A  prominent  and  hitherto  valuable  feature  of  this  test  set  is  its  adapta- 
bility to  a  large  variety  of  coil  assemblies.  Some  hundreds  of  distinct 
designs  of  product  are  presently  accommodated.  In  the  Kearny  relay 
coil  shop  there  are  four  sets  of  the  design  described  here  and  four  sets  of 
earlier  designs.  It  is  possible  that  future  development,  if  justifiable,  will 
be  directed  toward  greater  automaticity  for  some  of  the  simpler  and 
more  numerous  product  codes,  with  less  emphasis  on  universal  applica- 
tion. 

THE   CALIBRATING   MACHINE   FOR   56-A   OSCILLATOR   FILM   SCALES^ 

Photographic  films  are  used  for  the  frequency  scales  of  some  oscillators 
to  afford  scale  length  and  enhance  readability.  There  have  been  several 
successive  designs  of  film  scale  calibrators  built  and  put  in  use  at  the 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  and  at  Kearny.  Some  have  been  described 
in  the  hterature.^^'  "■  ^^  One  very  early  design  is  still  in  use  on  production 
at  the  Marion  Shops  in  Jersey  City.  In  its  use,  a  calibrating  run  requires 
about  an  hour,  and  the  possibility  of  frequency  drift  due  to  temperature 
variations  makes  the  use  of  an  air  conditioned  room  essential.  All  of  those 
used  at  Western,  prior  to  the  one  described  here,  depended  for  accuracy 
on  the  film  scale  of  a  standard  prototype  of  the  oscillator  to  be  calibrated. 
Using  a  frequency  controlled  servo  linkage,  the  scale  of  the  standard  was 
reproduced  photographically  on  the  film  of  the  product.  Some  of  the 
prior  art  appears  in  the  design  of  the  new  machine.  In  order  to  describe 
the  principle  clearly,  it  seems  necessary  to  discuss  some  features  which 
were  previously  covered,  but  which  now  are  used  in  new  ways. 

The  56A  is  a  heterodyne  oscillator  designed  for  use  in  the  field  testing 
of  L3  installations.*^  It  has  a  usable  range  of  50  kc  to  10  mc.  One  com- 
ponent oscillator  is  fixed  at  or  near  90  mc  and  the  other  may  be  varied 
between  80  and  90  mc  by  means  of  a  tunable  cavity.  The  calibrated 
portion  of  the  35-mm  film  scale  geared  to  the  cavity  tuner  is  about  17 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE 


1149 


Fig.  8  —  Film  scale  calibrator, 


feet  long.  It  has  sprocket  holes  and  is  moved  by  a  standard  movie 
sprocket.  The  required  precision  of  each  calibration  mark  is  ±2  kc.  Two 
resonant  devices  are  included  in  the  circuit  to  permit  checking  and  ad- 
justing two  widely  separated  points  on  the  scale,  100  kc  and  7,266  kc. 
Considering  the  output  frequency  as  a  function  of  scale  setting,  one  of 
the  two  adjustments  controls  the  lateral  displacement  of  the  curve  and 
the  other  its  average  slope.  By  design  the  curve  approaches  linearity 
but  not  closely  enough  to  permit  less  than  a  uniciue  calibration  for  each 
oscillator  manufactured. 

Fig.  8  shows  the  machine  which  performs  the  calibration,  with  an 
oscillator  connected,  and  the  control  cabinet.  The  oscillator  is  shown  in 
its  shipping  frame.  An  unexposed  photographic  film  to  be  calibrated  is 
mounted  in  a  camera  so  that  it  can  be  driven  by  a  sprocket.  The  sprocket 
is  connected  by  gears  to  a  drive  motor  which  also  drives  the  take-up  reel 
and,  through  a  flexible  shaft,  the  cavity  tuner  and  sprocket  in  the  oscil- 
lator itself.  The  gear  arrangement  is  such  that  the  peripheral  speeds  of 
the  two  sprockets  are  the  same. 

A  positive  master  film  is  provided  which  has  a  scale  similar  to  the  one 
to  be  made  for  the  product  except  that  it  is  very  precisely  hnear.  A  por- 
tion of  the  master  is  shown  in  Fig.  9(b).  The  master  film  passes  over  a 
sprocket  which  is  driven  by  a  servo  motor.  A  lamp  illuminates  and  shines 
through  that  portion  of  the  master  which  is  in  front  of  an  aperture  at 


1150      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

any  instant.  An  optical  system,  Fig.  9(a),  produces  on  the  unexposed 
film  an  image  of  the  illuminated  portion  of  the  master.  As  the  oscillator, 
its  film,  and  the  master  advance,  the  markings  on  the  master  can  be  re- 
produced on  the  new  film. 

The  problem  in  control  is  to  cause  each  mark  on  the  master  film  to 
pass  the  slit  just  as  the  oscillator  goes  thru  the  corresponding  value  of 
frequency.  To  do  this  we  drive  the  oscillator  and  its  scale  together  at  a 
constant  linear  speed.  The  oscillator  frequency  increases  steadily  but 
not  at  a  constant  rate.  Its  rate  of  increase  varies  according  to  the  law  of 
its  particular  cavity.  So  our  problem  reduces  to  causing  the  master  film 
to  move  according  to  that  same  law. 

The  method  is  to  time  the  passage  of  known  points  in  the  oscillator 
frequency  spectrum,  and  then  to  pace  the  movement  of  the  master  film 
to  maintain  precise  correspondence.  The  pacing  is  done  by  detecting 
small  differences  in  times  of  arrival  at  corresponding  points  and  correct- 
ing the  speed  of  the  master  film  to  keep  successive  differences  small. 
Fig.  10  is  a  block  schematic  of  the  automatic  control  system.  The  varying 
oscillator  output  passes  through  multiples  of  10  kc  at  a  rate  near  five  mul- 
tiples per  second.  When  it  is  compared  in  a  balanced  modulator  with 

APERTURE 


sow.  PROJECTION 
LAMP 


UNEXPOSED - 
FILM 


(A) 


DQDai! 


/aDaDDDDDDDDDDaDD 


1.200 


1,300 


i    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I 
aDDaDDDDaDDDDDDDDDD 


(B) 

Fig.  9  —  Film  scale  calibrator,  (a),  optical  system  schematic;  (b)  section  of 
master  film. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN  TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE  1151 

the  fixed  harmonics  of  a  standard  10-kc  signal,  the  first  order  difference 
frequency  in  the  modulator  output  varies  back  and  forth  between  0  and  5 
kc.  It  passes  through  the  2500  c.p.s.  point  twice  per  period  of  variation, 
or  twice  per  10-kc  interval  of  the  oscillator  frequency. 
The  output  of  the  modulator  is  sent  through  a  narrow  band  amplifier 
I  which  peaks  at  2500  c.p.s.  A  burst  of  signal,  therefore,  leaves  this  ampli- 
i  fier  twice  per  10-kc  interval.  The  bursts  are  further  amplified  and  recti- 
fied and  become  pulses  which  time  the  progress  of  the  oscillator  through 
its  spectrum.  The  pulses  are  impressed  across  the  winding  of  a  high  speed 
relay,  causing  its  contacts  to  close  momentarily  twice  per  10-kc  interval. 
During  the  instant  when  the  contacts  are  closed  they  connect  a  particular 
value  from  a  sawtooth  voltage  wave  to  a  0.1 -mf  capacitor. 

The  voltage  of  the  capacitor  biases  the  grid  of  a  cathode  follower  tube, 
and  the  output  voltage  from  this  tube  is  fed  to  a  servo  system  and  con- 
trols the  speed  of  its  motor.  Thus  the  motor  runs  at  a  speed  determined 
by  the  voltage  of  the  sawtooth  at  the  instant  when  the  relay  contacts 
close.  As  the  sawtooth  itself  is  timed  by  the  rotation  of  the  servo  motor, 
its  voltage-time  relationship  is  the  device  for  pacing  the  master  film.  The 
sawtooth  wave  originates  in  the  alternate  shorting  and  charging  of  a 
1-mf  capacitor.  Each  tooth  begins  when  a  pair  of  shorting  contacts  is 
closed  momentarily  by  a  cam  geared  to  the  servo  motor.  After  a  dis- 
charge, the  voltage  on  the  1-mf  capacitor  increases  negatively  as  a  prac- 
tically linear  function  of  time,  with  charging  current  flowing  through  a 
one  megohm  resistor.  Thus  the  value  of  voltage  transmitted  to  the  0.1-mf 
capacitor  at  the  instant  of  closure  of  the  relay  contacts  depends  on  the 
time  elapsed  since  the  most  recent  shorting  of  the  1-mf  capacitor.  Twenty 
volts  at  the  input  to  the  servo  system  corresponds  to  midvoltage  of  the 
sawtooth  and  to  3,600  rpm  of  the  motor,  which  is  the  same  as  the  con- 
stant speed  of  the  motor  driving  the  oscillator  and  undeveloped  film. 

If  the  characteristic  of  the  oscillator  causes  a  given  2,500-cycle  point 
to  occur  early,  the  contacts  of  the  relay  will  close  at  a  higher  positive 
voltage  point  on  the  corresponding  sawtooth.  The  servo  motor  will  start 
to  speed  up  to  make  subsequent  sawteeth  start  earlier  than  they  other- 
wise would  have.  The  motor  will  slow  down  if  the  2,500-cycle  points  fall 
later  and  lower  on  the  teeth. 

Several  design  features  in  the  system  are  of  interest.  The  servo  system 
was  supplied  by  Industrial  Control  Company  (SL-1035).  It  has  a  ta- 
chometer feedback  in  inverse  sense  to  enhance  system  stability.  The  cam 
used  to  operate  the  shorting  contactor  and  start  the  sawtooth  is  a  small 
permanent  magnet  mounted  on  a  wheel.  The  moving  field  causes  the 
contactor  to  operate  very  briefly  as  the  magnet  swings  past.  The  con- 
tactor itself  is  a  Western  Electric  222- A  mercury  switch,  which  has  a 


1152      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


10  KC 
STANDARD 

OSCILLATOR 
F=  (   (t) 

' 

HARMONIC 
GENERATOR 

MODULATOR 

2500  CPS 
B.R    FILTER 

■300 


COMPARISON 
CIRCUIT 


MASTER   FILM 
SPROCKET 

0=  f  (t) 


20  RPM 
(NOM.) 


NOM.  SPEED 
3600    RPM 


I  MEG 


600  RPM 
(NOM.) 


600   RPM 
(NOM.) 


IMF 


-|Vj^              -NN^  +250 
)l r 1       VI 


I  MEG 


Fig.  10  —  Block  diagram  of  film  scale  calibrator  with  schematic  of  comparison 
circuit. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   IN   TELEPHONE   MANUFACTURE  1153 

hydrogen  atmosphere,  high  speed  capabihty  and  high  current  capacity. 
The  magnetic  arrangement  reduces  shock  torque  loads  on  the  servo 
motor,  which  might  result  from  mechanical  operation.  The  high  speed 
relay  which  operates  at  the  2,500-cycle  points  is  a  Western  Electric  275-B, 
chosen  because  of  the  speed  required  (about  10  operations  per  second). 

The  time  comparison  circuit  has  a  small  amount  of  long  time  constant 
positive  feedback  (shown  at  1  in  Fig.  10)  to  raise  or  lower  the  midvoltage 
of  the  sawtooth  wave  in  cases  of  extreme  correction  and  prevent  the 
control  point  from  slipping  one  or  more  teeth.  In  effect  this  supplies  extra 
acceleration  to  the  master  film  when  needed. 

There  is  also  incorporated  in  the  design  an  arrangement  which  permits 
an  important  variation  in  the  method  of  use.  A  magnetic  tape  is  driven 
by  a  sprocket  which  is  geared  to  the  main  drive  motor  and  moves  with 
the  oscillator  drive.  The  magnetic  head  for  recording  on  the  tape  receives 
its  signal  in  the  form  of  2,500  c.p.s.  bursts  through  an  amplifier.  These  are 
the  same  bursts  that  time  the  progress  of  the  oscillator  through  its  spec- 
trum. Thus  it  is  possible  to  separate  the  function  of  calibration  from 
that  of  printing  the  film  scale.  The  calibration  data  on  the  oscillator  is 
stored  on  the  tape  and  may  be  checked  for  absence  of  abrupt  departures 
from  linearity  before  it  is  used  to  drive  the  servo  and  master  film  in  an 
actual  printing  run.  This  eliminates  some  wastage  of  raw  film.  Also  a 
recording  (or  calibrating)  run  is  made  without  the  servo  linkage  and  can 
be  made  at  twice  the  speed  of  a  printing  run.  A  56A  oscillator  can  be 
driven  through  its  spectrum,  50  to  10,000  kc,  in  100  seconds,  allowing 
very  little  opportunity  for  temperature  effects  to  change  the  check  points. 
In  fact  no  particular  effort  need  be  made  to  control  the  temperature 
beyond  an  ordinary  warm  up  interval. 

The  control  portion  of  the  machine  contains  various  circuits  for  con- 
venience in  setting  up  and  starting  the  runs.  For  example  one  relay  cir- 
cuit under  the  control  of  a  start  button  brings  a  fixed  dc  voltage  into  the 
servo  loop,  and  automatically  disconnects  after  a  period  long  enough  for 
the  motor  to  reach  approximately  the  right  speed.  A  gear  shift  lever  per- 
mits changing  the  ratios  between  the  speeds  for  the  recording  run  and 
the  printing  run. 

It  is  doubtful  that  a  calibration  of  the  56A  oscillator  could  ho  per- 
formed by  manual  means.  It  has  been  estimated  that  even  if  possible, 
such  a  task  would  require  more  than  a  week  of  the  most  painstaking 
effort,  under  very  carefully  controlled  conditions.  By  comparison,  the 
calibrator  requires  one  minute  forty  seconds  to  obtain  the  data,  and 
three  minutes  twenty  seconds  to  reproduce  it.  Development  and  checking 
of  the  exposed  film  takes  about  a  day.  Accuracy  of  the  scales  has  always 
been  well  within  the  ±2-kc  limit. 


llo-t      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


CONCLUSION 

111  this  and  the  accompanying  articles  we  have  given  a  partial  picture 
of  the  facilities  for  automatic  testing  in  the  Western  Electric  Compaiw. 
At  this  writing  several  new  machines  are  under  development,  and  modi- 
fications are  in  progress  extending  the  application  of  some  of  the  present 
machines.  There  is  a  continuing  search  for  new  fields  in  which  to  apply 
these  techniques.  A  staff  portion  of  the  manufacturing  engineering  force 
now  devotes  its  full  attention  to  automation  techniques  in  general,  keeps 
abreast  of  the  field,  bulletinizes  important  additions  to  the  literature, 
lends  assistance  in  the  solution  of  problems,  and  develops  specific  appli- 
cations. It  is  likely  that  the  near  future  will  see  important  extensions  in 
the  use  of  automatic  test  equipment. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The  author  is  indebted  to  the  people  cited  in  the  references  for  informa- 
tion used  in  this  article,  and  particularly  to  A.  L.  Bennett,  J.  Lamont 
and  F.  W.  Schramm  who  furnished  valuable  comments  on  the  early 
drafts. 

References 

1.  Developed  bj-  A.  L.  Bennett  and  C.  R.  Rasmussen. 

2.  The  original  design  of  automatic  relay  coil  test  set  was  developed  at  Haw- 

thorne by  R.  W.  Brown.  The  set  discussed  here  is  a  Kearny  modification 
developed  by  J.  Lamont. 

3.  C.  C.  Cole  and  H.  R.  Shillington,  page  1179  of  this  issue. 

4.  Developed  by  G.  H.  Harmon  and  A.  E.  Rockwood. 

5.  Developed  by  F.  W.  Schramm  based  on  suggestions  by  T.  Slonczewski,  Bell 

Telephone  Laboratories. 

6.  B.  M.  Wojciechowski,  Continuous  Incremental  Thickness  Measurements  of 

Non-Conductive  Cable  Sheath,  B.S.T.J.,  p.  353,  1954. 

7.  W.  T.  Eppler,  Thickness  Measurement  and  Control  in  the  Manufacture  of 

Polyethylene  Sheath,  B.S.T.J.,  p.  599,  1954. 

8.  A.  N.  Hanson,  Automatic  Testing  of  Wired  Relay  Circuits,  A.LE.E.  Techni- 

cal Paper  53-407,  Sept.,  1953. 

9.  L.  D.  Hansen,  Tape  Control,  Automation,  p.  26,  May,  1956.  Also  see  page 

1155  of  this  issue. 

10.  Developed  by  C.  F.  Dreyer  and  A.  W.  Schoof. 

11.  Develoi)ed  by  L.  H.  Brown  and  N.  K.  Engst. 

12.  Information  was  supplied  by  C.  A.  Purdy. 

13.  A.  F.  Bennett,  An  Improved  Circuit  for  the  Telephone  Set,  B.S.T.J.,  p.  611, 

1953. 

14.  Improved  U,  UA,  and  Y  Type  Relays,  Bell  Lab.  Record,  p.  466,  1951. 

15.  J.  O.  Israel,  Broadband  Test  Oscillator  for  the  L-3  Coaxial  Carrier  Sj^stem, 

Bell  Lab.  Record,  p.  271,  July,  1955. 

16.  W.  J.  Means  and  T.  Slonczewski,  Automatic  Calibration  of  Oscillator  Scales, 

A.I.E.E.  Miscellaneous  Paper  50-80,  Dec,  1949. 

17.  T.  Slonczewski,  A  Servo  System  for  Heterodyne  Oscillators,  A.I.E.E.  Tech- 

nical Paper  51-218,  May,  1951. 

18.  F.  W.  Schramm,  Calibrating  Strip  Type  Dials,  Electronics,  pp.  102-3,  May, 

1950. 


Automatic  Manufacturing  Testing  of 
Relay  Switching  Circuits 

By  L.  D.  HANSEN 

(Manuscript  received  May  18,  1956) 

The  large  variety  and  quantity  of  shop-wired  relay  switching  equipments 
produced  by  the  Western  Electric  Company  lead  to  the  use  of  comprehensive 
and  flexible  manufacturing  testing  facilities  to  insure  quality  of  product  and 
to  reduce  costs.  An  older  manual  type  test  set  is  briefly  described  and  used 
to  illustrate  the  functions  and  operation  of  two  automatic  test  sets  designated 
as  Card-0-Matic  and  Tape-0-Matic  respectively. 

INTRODUCTION 

Early  telephone  central  office  installations  were  of  the  manual  switch- 
board type  which  were  relatively  simple  and  refjuired  few  relay  circuits 
other  than  those  located  in  switchboards  themselves.  Installation  effort, 
in  addition  to  actual  erection  of  the  switchboards,  equipment  frames, 
fuse  boards  and  the  like  consisted  largely  of  running  and  terminating  the 
central  office  cabling.  As  the  telephone  art  grew,  both  with  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  dial  telephones,  and  carrier  and  repeater  equipments  for  long 
distance  calls  and  the  consequent  need  for  interconnection  of  these 
various  types  of  systems,  a  considerable  variety  of  relay  switching  cir- 
cuits was  required. 

To  reduce  the  installation  time  and  effort  the  practice  of  doing  as 
much  circuit  wiring  in  the  factory  as  possible  was  introduced.  Relay 
switching  units  are  now  completely  assembled,  wired  to  terminal  strips 
and  tested  in  the  shop.  Since  these  are  in  effect  working  circuits  the  in- 
stallation testing  effort,  after  the  connection  of  office  cabling,  consists 
largely  of  overall  tests  required  to  insure  the  proper  functioning  of  the 
entire  office. 

Due  to  the  wide  variety  and  complexity  of  these  units,  many  of  which 
have  optional  circuit  conditions  that  can  be  supplied  on  order  and  few 
of  which  have  sufficient  demand  to  justify  specially  designed  high  pro- 

1155 


1156      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

duction  test  sets  for  their  exclusive  use,  adaptable  manually  operated 
test  sets  were  first  used.  These  sets  required  a  high  degree  of  flexibility 
in  interconnecting  the  terminals  of  the  circuit  under  test  to  those  of  the 
test  set  and  in  applying  the  proper  potentials  in  sequence  that  would 
insure  putting  the  cii'cuit  through  its  paces  and  checking  that  the  switch- 
ing functions  are  properly  performed. 

It  should  be  stated  here  that  since  all  apparatus  components  of  these 
circuits  such  as  relays,  transformers,  capacitors,  inductors  and  resistors 
are  tested  and  inspected  for  their  respective  electrical  and  mechanical 
requirements  when  manufactured,  except  in  the  case  of  some  types  of 
relays  which  require  adjustment  to  meet  their  particular  circuit  recjuire- 
ments,  the  testing  of  switching  circuits  is  largely  confined  to  verification 
of  the  circuit  wiring  with  normal  voltages.  Although  marginal  component 
tests  are  not  normally  applied,  operation  tests  will,  of  course,  detect 
defective  apparatus  components  which  cause  malfunctioning  of  the 
circuit. 

MANUAL  TEST   SET 

Fig.  1  shows  a  representative  manual  type  test  set  that  was  extensively 
used  for  wired  relay  vmit  testing  before  the  introduction  of  the  automatic 
test  sets  to  be  described  later.  On  the  left  side  is  a  pin  jack  field  into  which 
the  numbered  wires  of  the  connecting  cable  can  be  individually  plugged 
in  order  to  connect  the  test  set  terminals  to  the  proper  terminals  of  the 
relay  unit  under  test.  The  other  end  (not  shown)  of  the  cable  is  equipped 
with  a  contact  fiixture  arranged  to  give  quick  electrical  connections  to 
the  terminals  of  the  wired  relay  unit.  The  plugging  of  the  pins  into  the 
proper  pin  jacks  is  a  feature  needed  to  provide  flexibility  in  a  test  set 
arranged  to  test  many  types  of  circuits  and  is  a  part  of  the  setup  opera- 
tion for  any  one  circuit.  It  is  a  slow  and  time-consuming  operation  since 
each  lead  has  to  be  identified  and  plugged  into  the  proper  pin  jack.  The 
pin  plug  setup  must  be  taken  down  and  rearranged  in  order  to  test  any 
other  type  of  relay  circuit. 

The  test  set  is  equipped  with  signal  lamps  for  visual  response  indica- 
tions and  manually  operated  keys  for  the  use  of  the  tester  in  performing 
the  test  operations.  Separate  power  cords  are  plugged  into  power  distri- 
bution jacks  which  supply  the  various  potentials  commonly  used  in 
telephone  central  oflSces. 

After  the  initial  setup  the  tester  operates  the  numbered  keys  and  ob- 
serves the  lamp  signal  responses  in  accordance  with  the  chart  clipi^ed 
to  the  front  of  the  test  set.  Failure  to  get  a  particular  lamp  indication 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   RELAY   SWITCHING   CIRCUITS 


1157 


Fig.  1  —  Manual  wired  unit  test  set. 


requires  that  he  analyze  the  circuit  conditions  and  locate  the  cause  of 
the  trouble.  Usually  a  circuit  fault  must  be  corrected  before  testing  can 
proceed. 

Fig.  2  shows  a  small  portion  of  a  simplified  circuit  test  arrangement 
for  such  a  manual  test  set.  In  this  illustration  a  single  key,  when  operated, 
supplies  battery  and  ground  potentials  to  the  winding  of  a  relay  in  the 
circuit  under  test.  Assumption  is  made  that  the  three  relay  contact 
terminals  are  wired  directly  to  the  relay  unit  terminal  strip  so  that 


1158      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


thej''  can  be  connected  to  ground  and  to  battery  through  lamps  for  cir- 
cuit closure  indications.  The  switching  functions  of  the  relay  can  then 
be  checked  by  operating  the  test  key  and  observing  that  signal  lamp  (1) 
extinguishes  and  that  (2)  lights. 

While  such  an  arrangement  can  adequately  test  most  switching  cir- 
cuits of  any  complexity  by  further  extension  of  the  basic  scheme,  when 
supplemented   by   internal   circuit   connections   where   necessary,    the 


SIGNAL 
LAMPS 


(2)    (C 


(I) 


S: 


^ 


X 


> 


MANUALLY  OPERATED 
TEST  KEY 


X 


PIN 
JACKS 


PIN 
PLUGS 


CONTACT 
FIXTURE 


/ 


^ 


— ^ 


^ 


TEST  CABLE-" 


/Cl 


CIRCUIT 
TERMINALS 


PORTION  OF 
RELAY  CKT 
UNDER  TEST 


Fig.  2  —  Simplified  circuit  sketch  for  manual  test  operation. 


WATCHING 
1  RELAYS 


SIGNAL 
RELAYS 


CONTACT 
CROSS  CONNECTING  FIXTURE 

DEVICE  /  CIRCUIT 

>  /TERMINALS 


I I    f 

TEST  CABLE 


PORTION  OF 
RELAY  CKT 
UNDER  TEST 


Fig.  3  —  Simplified  circuit  sketch  for  automatic  test  operation. 


AUTOAIATIC   TESTING   OF   RELAY   SAVITCHING   CIRCUITS  1159 

system  is  at  best  a  slow  and  laborious  one  which  is  subject  to  human 
error.  Wages  for  testers  are  determined  not  primarily  on  their  ability 
to  operate  keys  and  check  the  indications  of  lamps  but  on  their  skill  in 
analyzing  and  clearing  trouble  conditions.  If  some  quick  and  automatic 
means  could  be  devised  to  make  the  initial  cross  connection  setup,  apply 
the  potentials  in  the  proper  sequence  under  control  of  some  programing 
device  and  check  the  circuit  responses  at  each  step  a  real  advance  in 
speeding  up  tests  and  reducing  human  errors  would  be  accomplished 
Such  an  automatic  set  ideally  should  have  improved  response  indications 
to  aid  the  the  tester  in  locating  circuit  troubles  when  the  test  set  stops 
on  the  failure  of  meeting  any  test  requirement. 

THE  AUTOMATIC   TEST   SET 

The  key  and  visual  lamp  indicating  functions  of  the  manual  test  set 
can  be  replaced  by  relays  in  an  automatic  test  set  which  perform  these 
operations  if  they  are  under  control  of  suitable  programing  and  advanc- 
ing circuits  as  shown  in  Fig.  3.  Here  the  "signal"  relays  operate  through 
the  contacts  of  the  relay  under  test  and  their  operating  positions  are 
checked  by  the  "watching"  relays  whose  contact  closures  must  match 
those  of  the  signal  relays.  The  series  path  through  the  contacts  of  all 
signal  and  watching  relays  is  called  a  chain  lead.  The  program  circuit 
establishes  the  positions  of  the  watching  relays  to  meet  the  expected  con- 
ditions prior  to  operating  the  key  relay  and  then  any  lack  of  continuity 
through  the  chain  lead  caused  by  failure  to  satisfy  test  conditions  halts 
the  progress  of  the  tests  under  control  of  the  advancing  circuit.  At  this 
point  additional  contacts  (not  shown)  on  the  signal  and  watching  relays 
may  be  used  to  light  signal  lamps  to  convey  information  to  the  tester 
as  to  which  portion  of  the  circuit  failed  to  operate  properly. 

For  quick  setup  a  pre-wired  multi-contact  adapter  plug  may  be  used 
as  a  cro?s-connection  device  to  permit  establishing  the  proper  test  con- 
nections to  the  unit  under  test.  One  will  be  required  for  each  type  of 
relay  circuit  to  be  tested.  These,  together  with  some  means  whereby 
the  sequential  operation  of  the  programing  circuit  can  be  controlled, 
constitute  the  essential  features  of  an  elementary  automatic  relay  switch- 
ing circuit  test  set.  How  these  basic  features  can  be  extended  into  prac- 
tical embodiments  will  be  explored  further  below. 

THE   CARD-O-MATIC   TEST   SET 

Key  equipment  relay  units  are  small  switching  circuits  used  as  cir- 
cuit building  blocks  to  provide  the  desired  optional  features  in  conjunc- 
tion with  the  key  boxes  or  key-in-base  telephones  often  seen  in  small 


1160      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195G 


Fig.  4  —  Card-0-Matic  test  set. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF    RELAY    SWITCHING    CIRCUITS  1161 

)usines.s  offices  to  furnish  the  flexibiHty  needed  in  answering  and  trans- 
ferring calls.  These  s3^stems  are  used  where  the  number  of  telephones 
served  does  not  warrant  the  use  of  a  regular  PBX  switchboard. 

These  circuits  are  relatively  simple  but  their  large  scale  pi'oduction 
warrants  the  use  of  high  speed  automatic  test  sets  to  perform  the  test 
functions  and  to  indicate  circuit  trouble. 

Fig.  4  shows  the  operating  position  of  the  Card-0-Matic*  test  set 
which  was  developed  to  test  such  unit  assemblies.  The  keys  shown  are 
used  to  initiate  and  control  the  automatic  operation  of  the  test  set  and 
in  trouble  shooting.  They  are  not  to  be  confused  with  those  that  per- 
form the  actual  testing  functions  described  previouslj^  for  the  manual 
test  set.  The  lamps  pro^'ide  indications  of  the  progress  of  the  tests  and 
of  the  positions  of  the  watching  relays  which  are  also  needed  to  aid  in 
determining  the  point  of  circuit  failure.  The  meter  type  relay  in  the 
upper  left  corner  of  the  operating  panel  provides  a  sensiti\'e  checking 
de\'ice  for  audio  freciuency  tests  through  the  \'oice  transmission  circuits. 
The  telephone  dial  affords  a  simple  means  of  generating  any  recjuired 
number  of  pulses  for  operating  stepping  selectors  on  some  types  of  units. 
The  terminal  field  in  the  lower  front  of  the  cabinet  gi\^es  the  tester  access 
to  the  circuit  terminals  of  both  the  unit  under  test  and  the  test  set  for 
his  use  in  analyzing  and  locating  faults.  The  upper  cabinet  was  a  later 
addition  and  contains  the  multi-contact  rela3\s  needed  to  permit  testing 
units  with  more  than  one  circuit.  The  row  of  push  buttons  are  used  to 
select  the  circuit  to  be  tested. 

Fig.  5  is  a  rear  ^'iew  of  the  set  that  shows  the  perforated  insulating 
card  from  which  the  set  derives  its  name.  The  coded  card  controls  the 
sequence  of  test  operations  and  is  hung  on  pins  over  the  field  of  1,000 
spring  plungers  (20  X  50)  as  a  part  of  the  setup  operation  for  a  particu- 
lar relay  unit.  Closing  the  door  and  screwing  up  the  hand  wheel,  which 
is  necessary  to  provide  the  force  required  to  depress  the  plungers,  will 
ground  those  which  coincide  with  holes  in  that  particular  card. 

Cross-connection  setup  of  the  test  leads  is  achieved  by  the  use  of  a 
plug-board  such  as  is  commonly  used  for  quick  change  over  on  perforated 
card  type  business  machines.  Fig.  6  shows  the  plug  board  being  inserted 
into  the  transport  mechanism.  The  relatively  large  number  of  terminals 
are  retjuired  because  each  of  60  test  leads  must  be  capable  of  being 
patched  in  to  an  equi\'alent  number  of  terminals  on  a  maximum  of  ten 
different  circuits.  Not  all  of  our  test  sets  are  equipped  with  the  upper 
cabinet  since  most  key  units  have  only  one  circuit  and  on  these  a  simpler 


*  Patent  No.  2,329,491. 


1162      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


Fig.  5  —  Rear  view  of  Card-0-Matic  test  set  showing  insertion  of  perforated  card. 


cross  connection  fixture  is  plugged  into  the  location  where  the  lower 
end  of  the  cable  joining  the  two  cabinets  is  shown  terminated  in  Fig.  5. 
A  side  view  of  the  test  set  is  shown  in  Fig.  7  to  give  an  indication  of 
the  amount  of  switching  e([uipinent  and  wiring  necessary  for  an  auto- 
matic test  set  of  this  sort.  The  set  is  powered  from  a  r20-\'olt  60-cy('le 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   RELAY   SWITCHING   CIRCNITS  1163 

source  from  which  are  derived  the  24-volt  dc,  90-volt  20-cycle  ringing 
current  and  600-cycle  audio  tone  supplies  that  are  required.  The  test 
circuit  features  mchide  tone  transmission  checking,  dial  pulsing,  90-volt 
20-cycle  ringing  and  ground  and  batter}^  supplied  either  directly  or  under 
relay  control.  Other  battery  and  ground  relays  are  available  for  checking 
the  response  of  the  circuit  under  test. 

These  test  features  have  been  sufficient  to  perform  operation  tests  on 
most  relay  units  associated  with  key  telephone  systems.  The  test  cycle 
is  fast  and  the  twenty  test  steps  can  be  performed  in  approximately  ten 
seconds.  The  lamp  indications  given  when  the  test  is  interrupted  by  an 
open-circuited  chain  lead,  convey  information  to  the  tester  as  to  which 
test  step  is  involved  and  when  any  pairs  of  signal  and  watch  relays  fail 


Fig.  6  —  Insertion  of  cross-connection  plug  board  into  Card-0-Matic  test  set. 


IKU      TIIK    BELL   SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBEE    1956 


Fig,  7  —  Interior  of  Card-0-Matic  test  set. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF    RELAY    SWITCHING    CIRCUITS  1165 

to  match  each  other.  Simplified  circuit  sketches  which  show  the  inter- 
connection of  test  set  and  wired  unit  circuits  are  provided  to  enal:)le  the 
1  ester  to  determine  quickly  the  cause  of  the  failure. 
I  Th(^  C'ard-(^-Matic  test  set,  while  performing  admirably  on  the  rela- 
tively simple  relay  circuits  within  its  range  and  capabilities,  falls  down 
on  the  more  complicated  relay  switching  circuits  used  in  telephone 
central  offices  for  several  reasons.  The  most  important  of  these  are: 

1.  A  fixed  cycle  within  a  maximum  of  twenty  steps  with  any  one 
coded  card. 

2.  No  provision  for  alternate  or  optional  circuit  conditions  on  a  card. 

3.  The  only  power  supplies  provided  to  operate  relays  are  negative 
24-volt  dc  and  90-volt  20-cycle  ringing  whereas  telephone  office  units 
frequently  also  require  negative  48-volt  and  positive  130-volt  dc  as  well 
as  positive  or  negative  biased  ringing  currents  for  party  line  ringing. 

4.  The  increase  of  either  test  steps  or  features  would  increase  the 
size  of  the  perforated  card  beyond  a  practical  size. 

THE   TAPE-O-MATIC   TEST   SET 

The  experience  gained  in  the  design  and  successful  operation  of  the 
Card-0-Matic  test  set  led  naturally  to  the  exploration  of  ways  and 
means  whereby  a  more  versatile  and  comprehensive  set  could  be  devised. 
The  five  hole  coded  perforated  teletype  tape  was  selected  as  a  cheap 
and  flexible  programing  device.  It  afforded  a  means  of  providing  a  test 
cycle  of  any  required  length  and,  since  the  perforating  and  reading 
mechanisms  were  already  available,  it  appeared  to  be  nearly  ideal  for 
its  purpose. 

Consideration  was  given  to  the  following  desirable  features  all  of 
which  were  incorporated  in  the  design  of  the  new  set: 

1.  Provision  for  cross-connecting  (under  control  of  the  coded  tape) 
any  test  set  circuit  to  any  terminal  of  the  circuit  under  test  for  as  long 
as  necessary  and  then  disconnecting  for  reuse  in  later  testing  steps  if 
required.  This  A\'ould  greatly  extend  the  range  and  capabilities  of  the 
set. 

2.  Provision  for  several  power  voltage  sources  which  could  be  selected 
as  required  to  meet  the  normal  telephone  office  voltage  requirements 
of  the  unit  under  test. 

3.  Provision  for  alternate  or  optional  tests  to  be  coded  into  the  tape 
to  meet  the  various  circuit  arrangements  that  may  be  wired  into  the 
unit  as  required  by  the  Telephone  Company  who  is  our  customer.  Such 
optional  test  arrangements  could  be  applied  by  the  test  set  under  the 
control  of  keys  to  be  operated  by  the  tester  as  part  of  the  setup  at  the 
start  of  the  tests. 


1166      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

4.  Provision  for  stopping  the  test  cycle  to  enable  the  tester  to  per- 
form manual  operations  such  as  inserting  a  test  plug  in  a  jack  on  the 
unit  or  insulating  relay  contacts  in  order  to  isolate  portions  of  the  cir- 
cuit for  test  simplification  and  to  obtain  a  more  detailed  test. 

5.  Provision  of  improved  lamp  indications  to  aid  the  tester  in  clearing 
wiring  faults  or  in  locating  defective  apparatus.  These  would  include 
the  necessary  information  as  to  which  test  set  circuits  are  connected 
to  which  unit  terminals  as  well  as  which  relays  of  the  wired  unit  should 
be  operated  at  that  stage  of  the  test  cycle. 

6.  Provision  for  connecting  several  terminals  of  the  unit  under  test 
together  as  a  means  of  providing  circuit  continuity  where  required. 

7.  Provision  for  measuring  resistance  values  of  circuit  components. 

8.  Provision  for  insertion  of  various  resistors  in  battery  or  ground 
leads  to  control  currents  to  desired  values. 

9.  Provision  for  checking  voice  transmission  paths  through  non- 
metallic  circuits  such  as  transformers  or  capacitors. 

10.  Provision  for  measuring  circuit  operating  times  in  steps  of  ap- 
proximately 100  milliseconds. 

11.  Provision  for  sending  and  receiving  dial  pulses. 

12.  Provision  for  a  single  code  for  releasing  all  test  connections  and 
conditions  previously  established  by  the  coded  tape  as  a  means  of  quick 
disconnect.  This  is  in  addition  to  the  release  of  individual  connections 
mentioned  in  (1)  above. 

13.  Provision  for  audible  and  visual  indications  of  completion  of  a 
successful  test  cycle. 

Through  the  use  of  two  letters  (each  of  which  has  its  own  combination 
of  the  five  holes)  for  each  signal  it  was  possible  to  obtain  the  over  500 
codes  required  to  control  all  test  and  switching  functions  even  though 
the  teletype  keyboard  has  only  32  keys.  The  only  Teletype  transmitter 
(tape  reader)  available  when  the  test  set  was  first  designed  operated 
at  a  speed  of  368  operations  per  minute  and  was  arranged  for  sequential 
read  out  on  two  wires  by  means  of  a  commutator.  Conversion  to  five 
wire  operation  and  removing  the  commutator  permitted  reading  each 
row  of  holes  simultaneously.  The  gearing  was  also  changed  to  permit  600 
operations  per  minute  but  even  so  the  hole  reading  contact  dwell  time 
was  increased  from  approximately  20  milliseconds  to  70  milliseconds  for 
more  reliable  operation  with  ordinary  telephone  relays. 

The  machine  which  was  designated  as  the  Tape-0-Matic*  test  set,  is 
shown  in  Fig.  8  in  operation  on  a  typical  wired  relay  unit  mounted  in 
its  shipping  frame.  The  contact  fixture  is  attached  to  the  unit  terminal 

*  Patent  No.  2,328,750. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF    RELAY    SWITCHING    CIRCUITS  1167 


Fig.  8  —  Tape-0-Matic  test  set  in  operation". 


strip  and  cabled  to  a  gang  plug  which  in  turn  is  plugged  into  a  receptacle 
behind  the  operator.  These  leads  are  extended  through  a  duct  to  the 
metal  enclosure  at  the  base  of  the  set  for  entry  to  the  test  set  proper. 
The  coded  tape  is  dropped  into  the  receptacle  at  the  side  of  the  key 
shelf  to  which  it  returns  after  its  traverse  through  the  reader.  A  row  of 
circuit  breakers  on  the  end  of  the  key  shelf  control  the  application  of 


1168      THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

and  provide  protection  for  the  various  power  supplies.  Two  of  these 
supplies  are  mounted  on  the  top  of  the  set. 

The  rows  of  vertical  push  button  keys  on  the  key  shelf  afford  the 
tester  a  means  of  determining  (for  trouble  shooting  purposes)  the  asso- 
ciation (through  lamp  display  signals)  of  the  wired  unit  circuit  terminals 
with  those  of  the  test  set  and  the  corresponding  test  voltages  which  are 
connected  at  that  particular  stage  of  the  test.  The  lamp  display  panel 
also  indicates  which  test  set  circuits  are  in  use  and  through  fast  or  slow 
(0.5  or  1  second)  flashes  whether  the  fault  thus  indicated  is  the  result 
of  a  failure  to  meet  either  an  expected  condition  or  the  occurrence  of  an 
unexpected  condition.  This  feature  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  9  which  shows 
one  link  of  the  chain  leads  which  extend  through  all  pairs  of  signal  and 
watching  relays  for  the  check  of  satisfaction  of  all  test  conditions  and 
the  application  of  steady  or  interrupted  ground  to  the  associated  test 
feature  lamp.  The  operating  condition  of  all  test  set  key  relays  as  pre- 
viously established  by  the  tape  is  also  indicated  by  the  display  lamps. 
xA.nother  type  of  information  obtained  from  the  lamp  display  panel 
which  is  valuable  to  the  tester  in  trouble  clearing  is  the  indication  of 
the  particular  unit  relays  which  should  be  operated  at  that  part  of  the 
test  cycle.  By  checking  the  lamps  against  the  operated  or  non-operated 
position  of  the  relays  he  can  frequently  localize  the  fault  in  a  minimum 
of  time. 

As  mentioned  above  an  important  part  of  the  test  set  flexibility  is 
the  ability  of  the  tester  to  set  up  the  test  set  to  test  only  those  optional 
circuit  arrangments  which  are  provided  in  any  particular  unit  ordered 


X 


FAST 

GROUND 

PULSES 

TO   CKT. 
UNDER     _ 
TEST 


ASSOCIATED    FEATURE 
SIGNAL    LIGHT 


( 


cr 


TO  PRECEDI 
WATCH  RELAY 


NG^ 


CHAIN 
LEAD  ' 


TO  BATT  OR 
GRO.ASREQ'D. 


"j-t.^" 


SIG    RELAY 


c-^ 


SLOW 
GROUND 
PULSES 


•-  TO  GROUND  WHEN 
REQUIRED    FOR 
EXPECTED 
OPERATION 


HI 


^ 


CHAIN 


T»^^ 


0  SUCCEEDING 
SIGNAL    RELAY 


"watch"  relay 


Fig.  9  —  Chain  circuit  showing  watching  rehiy  function. 


AUTOMATIC  TESTING    OF    KEL.VY    S^^  ITCHING    CIKCUITS 


1169 


Fig.  10  —  Lower  portion  of  lamp  display  panel. 


by  the  customer.  Failure  to  provide  this  would  result  in  fixed  test  cycles 
and  many  more  tapes,  which  might  be  similar  but  varying  only  in  regard 
to  the  options,  would  have  to  be  prepared.  Figure  10  shows  the  lower 
portion  of  the  lamp  display  panel  with  the  push-pull  option  keys  on 
the  bottom  row.  Directly  above  are  the  manual  operation  keys  with 
their  associated  lamps  which  the  tester  must  operate  to  cause  the  test 
set  to  resume  the  testing  cycle  after  it  has  stopped  for  him  to  perform 
a  manual  operation. 

A  side  view  of  the  interior  of  the  set  is  shown  in  Fig.  11.  Two  bays 
each  facing  the  opposite  direction  from  the  other  are  housed  within  the 
cabinet  and  are  used  for  mounting  the  crossbar  switches  and  telephone 
type  relays  which  are  the  principal  circuit  components.  Two  doors  on 


1170      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195G 


.    M-f!    x-t    I  ■!    I  .(  •[  .r    i 
J-  a*  ■  >  •  I  •  1  •  r   (   I   f  •  > '  I  n    j 

.   ji  ->  -I    t    I    (    !    I    i    t  .r    ^ 

M'-mf  fi--«~^  f^**  wfifr  -wm        ■*• 


'|r||M|l||||4|fj 

'i^rrrriTllHfiiil 


ft "» 


Fig.  11  —  Interior  of  Tape-0-Matic  test  set. 

each  side  give  convenient  access  to  all  wiring  and  apparatus  for  mainte- 
nance purposes. 

A  fairly  large  portion  of  the  mounting  space  is  occupied  hy  the  cross- 
bar switches  which  perform  the  functions  of  interconnecting  the  circuit 
terminals  of  the  unit  under  test  and  those  of  the  test  set.  They  also 
connect  the  proper  voltages  to  these  circuits.  The  switching  plan  Fig.  12 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING    OF   RELAY   SWITCHING   CIRCUITS 


1171 


shows  in  abbreviated  diagramatic  form  that  the  unit  terminals  0-99 
appear  on  the  horizontal  inputs  of  the  two  10  X  20  and  one  10  X  10 
switches  that  comprise  the  primary  group.  The  horizontal  multiple  of 
these  switches  are  split  so  that  each  section  runs  through  five  verticals 
to  afford  connection  to  each  of  the  hundred  unit  terminals. 

The  vertical  outputs  of  the  primary  switches  are  connected  to  the 
horizontal  inputs  of  the  two  10  X  20  secondary  switches.  The  horizontal 
multiple  of  these  switches  are  split  so  that  each  section  runs  through 
eight  verticals.  The  verticals  of  the  secondary  switches  are  linked  to 
the  horizontals  of  the  two  10  X  20  tertiary  switches  which  have  their 


tru- 
tjj  fr, 


90 


GROUP   0 


'00 


GROUP  0 


9  Q 


GROUP  0 


,8 

I 

I 

I  1 
■o— 


p A09 


THROUGH 

-  GROUPS - 

1-8 


crui 
uji- 


\ 


THROUGH 

-GROUPS  - 

1-3 


THROUGH 

-GROUPS  - 

1  8.  2 


99 


GROUP   9 


'09 
-o — 


GROUP  4 


0  0 


0  0 


GROUP  3 


,30 


39 


PRIMARY 

SWITCHES 

2-  10  X  20 
1  -10  X  10 


SECONDARY 
SWITCHES 


2  -10  X  20 


TERTIARY 
SWITCHES 

2  -  10  X  20 


i| 

QUJ 

0.1- 

28 


THROUGH 
FEATURES  0-9 


-^-O- 


00 


09 


THROUGH 
FEATURES   10-29 


THROUGH 
FEATURES    30-39 


CORRESPONDING 
LEVELS   MULTIPLED 


30 


39 


TERMINATING 
SWITCHES 


■  10X  20 


Fig.  12  —  Switching  plan. 


1172      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

multiple  split  into  groups  of  ten.  The  40  verticals  of  the  latter  are  con- 
nected directly  to  the  40  test  set  feature  circuits  designated  0-39. 

Two  additional  10  X  20  crossbar  switches  perform  the  function  of 
connecting  any  of  the  five  power  or  five  multiple  terminations  to  any 
of  the  forty  test  set  features.  These  terminations  are  comprised  of  5 
loops  and  one  each  of  ground,  negative  24  volts,  negative  48  volts,  90- 
volt  20-cycle  ringing  current  and  positive  130  volts. 

Thus  it  can  be  seen  that,  through  proper  operation  of  the  primary, 
secondary,  tertiary  and  terminating  crossbar  switch  cross  points,  a 
path  can  be  established  from  any  circuit  terminal  to  any  test  set  feature 
and  supplied  with  any  of  the  available  power  or  loop  terminations.  It  is 


7  CROSSBAR 
SWITCHES 


RELAY 

SWITCHING 

TYPE  CIRCUIT 

UNDER  TEST 


MAX.  99 
LEADS 


AUTOMATIC 
SWITCHING 

OF   CIRCUIT 

TERMINALS  TO 

DESIRED   TEST 

FEATURES 


QUICK  CONNECT 

CONTACT  FIXTURES 


TELETYPE   TRANSMITTER 

MODIFIED   FOR  5-WIRE 

OPERATION 


40 

LEADS 


CONNECT  «. 

DISCONNECT 

SIGNALS 


TRANSMITTED 

CODES 

5    LEADS 


TEST 
FEATURES 

CIRCUITS  APPLY 

DIFFERENT    TESTS 

AND  CHECKING 

CONDITIONS 


40 
LEADS 


TEST 

FEATURE 

SIGNALS 


TAPE 
DECODING 
CIRCUITS 


10  KEYS 


OPTIONAL 
FEATURES 
CIRCUITS 

PERMITS  VARIATION 

OF  TEST  LISTED  ON 

STANDARD  TAPES 


TEST  SIGNALS  AND  CHECK  RESPONSE 


2  CROSSBAR 
SWITCHES 


CONTROL 
CIRCUITS 

A  SPECIAL  CODE  AT 
END  OF  EACH  TEST 
STEP  PERMITS  THESE 
CIRCUITS  TO  TRANS- 
FER CONTROL  OF  THE 
TRANSMITTER  TO  THE 
CHAIN  LEAD 


RESET  KEY 

INDEXES  TAPE       i^ 
TO  STARTING 
POSITION  i 


TERMINATION 
SWITCHING 
OF  POWER 
8.  SIGNALS 
t130VDC  GROUND 
90V  PO'^  RING  5  LOOPS 
-48  V  DC    -24  V  DC 

TO  TEST 
FEATURES  CIRCUITS 


TERMINATION 

SWITCHING 

SIGNALS 


TROUBLE 

INDICATING 

CIRCUITS 

1.  LAMPS  INDICATE 
PROGRESS  OF  TEST 
AND  ANY  FAILURES 

2.  INDICATES  FAILING 
CIRCUITS 

3.  SHOWS  POSITION  OF 
RELAYS  IN  TESTED 
CIRCUITS 


(-—CHAIN    LEAD 

CHECKS  POSITION  OF  ALL  TEST 
FEATURE   RELAYS  WITH  WATCH- 
ING RELAYS.   IF   CHAIN   IS 
CLOSED,  TAPE  IS  INDEXED  TO 
NEXT  TEST  CODE  POSITION. 
IF  CHAIN  IS  OPEN,  CONTROL 
CIRCUIT  WILL   SWITCH  TO 
TROUBLE  INDICATING  CIRCUITS 


START   KEY 

STARTS  AUTOMATIC 

PROGRESSION 

OF   TAPE 


Fig.  13  —  Block  schematic. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   RELAY   SWITCHING   CIRCUITS  1173 

also  apparent  that  several  paths  can  be  found  that  will  satisfy  any  one 
switched  connection.  Paths  are  assigned  in  sequence  by  a  series  relay 
loop  circuit.  The  entry  point  on  this  circuit  is  changed  periodically  to 
distribute  wear  on  the  relays  and  switch  cross  points. 

Although  only  one  lead  for  the  switched  circuit  is  shown  for  each 
cross  point  in  Fig.  12  there  are  actually  four  leads  through  corresponding 
pairs  of  contacts  through  each  cross  point.  The  remaining  leads  are 
associated  with  the  holding  and  signalling  functions  of  the  switch. 

The  block  schematic  (Fig.  13)  shows  the  principal  functions  which 
must  be  included  in  an  automatic  test  set  of  this  sort.  A  somewhat  more 
detailed  schematic  is  presented  in  Fig.  14  in  order  to  show  the  functions 
of  the  forty  test  features  0-39.  These  are  tabulated  in  Table  I. 

The  coding  of  the  two  letter  combinations  in  the  tape  must  follow  a 
defuiite  sequence  in  order  that  the  machine  may  recognize  and  act  on 
the  information  it  receives.  This  sequence  is  as  follows: 

1.  Code  FW  to  stop  the  tape  at  the  end  of  the  reset  cycle  after  which 
tests  will  proceed  w^hen  the  start  button  is  pressed.  This  is  the  first  code 
on  all  tapes. 

2.  Codes  to  set  up  crossbar  switches  to  connect  each  circuit  terminal 
to  its  proper  test  set  terminal  and  the  proper  termination.  Knock  down 
or  release  codes  may  also  be  sent. 

3.  Codes  to  operate  or  release  "Kej^"  relays.  These  relays  are  shown 
without  windings  in  Fig.  14. 

4.  Codes  to  operate  or  release  the  watching  relaj^s  associated  with 
the  "Signal"  relays  which  are  shown  with  windings  in  Fig.  14. 

5.  Codes  to  operate  or  release  relays  controlling  the  lamps  associated 
with  relays  in  the  circuit  under  test  to  aid  in  trouble  shooting. 

6.  Codes  to  delay  the  timing  out  interval  up  to  a  maximum  of  ten 
seconds. 

7.  Code  FJ  which  checks  the  matching  of  all  signal  and  watching 
relays  through  the  chain  circuit  for  satisfaction  of  all  test  conditions 
being  applied. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  additional  codes  can  be  inserted  after  each 
FJ  test  signal  to  stop  progress  of  the  test  to  permit  the  tester  to  perform 
some  required  manual  operation.  After  completion  of  this  step  he  presses 
a  button  associated  with  that  operation  and  the  test  proceeds.  Option 
codes  can  also  be  inserted  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  each  testing  step 
to  permit  bypassing  of  that  part  of  the  tape  if  the  corresponding  option 
keys  are  operated  at  the  beginning  of  the  test.  A  common  knock  down 
code  FR  can  be  inserted  at  any  time  to  release  all  connections  and  re- 
lays for  a  quick  disconnect  and  make  all  test  set  features  available  for 


1174      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


03810038  SV  SNOIiVNIWagj.  Oi    S3H0J.1MS   dvassodD  naHi 


a.03d  SV  66-0  uNwai  j-ind  Avnsy  oi  S3hoiims  yvgssoyo  Auvaaai  qnv  oas  'iHd  ndHi 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   RELAY   SWITCHING   CIRCUITS 


1175 


reuse.  A  final  code  SC  must  be  put  in  every  tape  to  operate  the  OK 
lamp  and  gong  if  a  successful  test  cycle  has  been  performed  or  conversely 
to  indicate  that  the  tape  should  be  re-run  if  trouble  has  been  found 
and  cleared  during  the  test  cycle  to  be  certain  that  no  new  faults  have 
been  introduced. 

Preparation  for  testing  a  particular  wired  relay  unit  requires  only  the 
selection  of  a  test  cable  one  end  of  which  is  equipped  with  a  suitable 
contact  fixture  for  attachment  to  the  unit  terminal  strip  and  the  other 
with  a  gang  plug  for  connection  to  the  set.  The  proper  tape  is  selected 
from  a  nearby  file  cabinet  and  inserted  in  the  gate  of  the  tape  reader 
as  shown  in  Fig.  15.  The  tape  is  stored  in  a  cardboard  carton  3^^  X  4 

Table  I 


Feature  Numbers 


1  and  2 


3  and  4 

5  through  19 
20 

21  and  22 


23  and  24 

25  through  34 
35 

36  and  37 
38  and  39 


Description  of  Functions 


High  sensitivity  relay  circuit.  Simulates  1,800-ohm  sleeve 
circuit  for  busy  test  and  general  continuity  through  high 
resistance  ciruits. 

Simulates  the  distant  tip  and  ring  terminations  of  a  subscriber 
or  exchange  trunk.  Provides  for  ringing,  tone  receival,  dial 
pulse  sending,  line  resistance,  high-low  or  reverse  battery  su- 
pervision, pad  control,  continuity,  and  resistance  verifica- 
tion. 

Auxiliary  tip  and  ring  circuit  for  holding,  checking  continu- 
ity, receival  of  tone  on  four  wire  or  hybrid  coil  circuits. 
Loss  range  of  less  than  0.5 db,  0.5  to  1.5  db,  1.5  to  6  db  and  6 
to  15  db  can  be  checked. 

Direct  connections  for  supplying  any  of  the  ten  terminating 
conditions. 

Simulates  low  or  medium  resistance  sleeve  circuits  for  margi- 
nal tests. 

Simulates  the  local  tip  and  ring  terminations  of  a  switch- 
board or  trunk  circuit.  Provides  for  ringing  and  dialing  re- 
ceival, high-low  reverse  battery  supervision,  transmission 
pad  control,  tone  transmission,  continuity  and  resistance 
check  by  balance. 

An  auxiliary  tip  and  ring  circuit  for  holding,  checking  con- 
tinuity, tone  transmission  on  four-wire  hybrid  coil  circuits. 

Low  sensitivity  relay  circuits  for  general  continuity  checking. 

A  circuit  for  checking  balance  on  the  (M)  lead  of  composite  or 
simplex  signalling  circuits  and  for  checking  receival  of  none, 
one  or  two  pulses. 

Medium  sensitivity  relay  circuits  for  continuity  checking. 

Direct  connections  for  supplying  any  of  the  ten  terminations. 


1176      THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  SEPTEMBER  1956 


Fig.  15  —  Perforated  tape  being  inserted  in  reader. 


inches  in  size,  the  label  of  Avhich  carries  all  pertinent  information  required 
for  setup  of  the  option  keys,  preliminary  tests  and  manual  operations 
during  test.  A  separate  12  conductor  cable  equipped  with  individual 
test  clips  permits  connection  to  internal  parts  of  the  circuit  if  needed 
for  adequate  tests.  No  other  information  than  that  on  the  box  label, 
the  circuit  schematic  and  the  lamp  panel  display  is  needed  by  the  tester 
to  operate  the  test  set  and  to  analyze  and  locate  circuit  faults  when 
they  occur. 

With  the  tape  inserted,  the  test  connections  established  and  am'- 
preliminary  operations  pei-formed  the  tester  has  only  to  push  the  RESET 
button  to  index  the  tape  to  the  initial  perforation  on  the  tape  and  the 
START  button  to  initiate  the  test  cycle.  The  set  will  continue  to  operate 
until  either  a  circuit  trouble  is  encountered  or  a  manual  operation  must 
be  performed.  After  a  defect  has  been  repaired,  the  automatic  progres- 
sion of  the  tape  is  again  started  by  the  momentary  depression  of  the 
STEP  button.  When  a  manual  operation  is  performed  the  tape  is  re- 
started by  the  momentary  depression  of  the  red  button  associated  with 
the  lighted  manual  operation  lamp  signal. 


AUTOMATIC   TESTING   OF   RELAY    SWITCHING   CIRCUITS 


1177 


TEST-TIME    PER   CIRCUIT 
HANDLING-TIME    PER    CIRCUIT 


iv'AsSl      SETUP-TIME    PER    CIRCUIT 

START-UP-TIME    PER    CIRCUIT 
LOCATING-TIME    PER    DEFECT 


MANUAL  TAPE 


MANUAL  TAPE 


Fig.  16  —  Comparison  of  manual  and  Tape-0-Matic  test  operation  times. 

As  might  be  expected  the  easy  setup,  automatic  testing  and  superior 
trouble  indicating  features  of  the  Tape-0-Matic  test  set  have  materially 
improved  the  quality  and  reduced  the  testing  time  and  effort  required 
for  wired  relay  units  as  compared  to  the  older  manually  operated  sets. 
The  aA'erage  time  per  circuit  for  six  representative  units  are  shown 
graphically  in  Fig.  16.  One  time  consuming  operation  on  manual  testing 
is  the  start  up  time  allowance  for  reading  and  understanding  the  written 
test  instructions  which  has  no  counterpart  in  the  Tape-0-Matic  tests 
and  this  alone  represents  a  sizeable  gain.  The  handling  time  of  the  unit 
itself  is  the  only  operation  which  is  not  reduced  in  automatic  testing. 


HISTORY 

The  initial  Card-0-Matic  test  set  was  installed  in  1938  in  the  Western 
Electric,  Kearny,  New  Jersey  plant.  Post  war  and  subsequent  expansions 
of  production  levels  have  necessitated  construction  of  six  more  sets  of 
improved  design  of  the  type  described  earlier  in  this  article. 

The  first  three  Tape-0-Matic  test  sets  were  built  in  1942  for  the  Wired 
Relay  Unit  Shop  and  additional  sets  have  since  been  constructed  to 
bring  the  number  to  twenty-six  including  six  that  are  used  in  testing 
trunk  units  in  the  Toll  Crossbar  Shop.  They  have  performed  admirably 
with  few  changes  from  the  initial  design.  They  have  been  used  to  test 
well  over  a  million  wired  units  with  a  minimum  of  maintenance.  This 


1178      THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,  SEPTEMBER  1956 

may  be  accounted  for,  in  part,  by  the  fact  that  most  of  the  component 
parts  are  telephone  type  apparatus  designed  for  heavy  duty  use. 

A  maintenance  feature  is  the  use  of  18  specially  coded  tapes  which, 
together  with  a  properly  strapped  input  plug,  permit  the  maintenance 
technician  to  obtain  indications  on  the  lamp  display  panel  of  the  per- 
formance of  the  set. 

Nearly  three  thousand  tapes  have  been  coded  to  date.  Of  these  ap- 
proximately two  thousand  are  in  active  use  on  the  many  types  of  wired 
relay  units  made  at  the  Kearny  plant.  More  tapes  are  being  added 
weekly  as  the  Bell  System  telephone  plant  grows  in  size  and  complexity. 

CONCLUSION 

Automatic  testing  of  wired  relay  switching  circuits  has  been  success- 
fully applied  to  the  manufacture  of  these  equipments  at  the  Kearny, 
New  Jersey,  plant  of  the  Western  Electric  Company  for  a  number  of 
years.  Even  though  the  total  production  is  large,  manufacture  is  essen- 
tially of  a  job  lot  nature  due  to  large  number  of  types  made  and  is  further 
compounded  by  the  optional  circuit  arrangments  that  may  be  ordered. 
The  solution  to  the  problem  was  found  through  provision  of  flexibility 
in  programing  and  cross  connection  leading  to  quick  setup,  rapid  testing 
and  improved  transmittal  of  essential  information  to  the  tester  to  aid 
him  in  clearing  circuit  faults. 


Automatic  Machine  for  Testing  Capacitors 
and  Resistance-Capacitance  Networks 

By  C.  C.  COLE  and  H.  R.  SHILLINGTON 

(Manuscript  received  May  8,  1956) 

The  modern  telephone  system  consists  of  a  variety  of  electrical  components 
connected  as  a  complex  network.  Each  year,  millions  of  relays,  capacitors, 
resistors,  fuses,  protectors,  and  other  forms  of  apparatus  are  made  for  use  in 
telephone  equipment  for  the  Bell  System.  Each  piece  of  apparatus  must  meet 
its  design  requirements,  if  the  system  is  to  function  properly.  This  article 
describes  an  automatic  machine  developed  hy  the  Western  Electric  Company 
for  testing  paper  capacitors  and  resistance-capacitance  networks  used  in 
central  office  switching  equipment. 

INTRODUCTION 

The  capacitors  discussed  in  this  article  are  the  ordinary  broad  Hmit 
units  made  ^^dth  windings  of  paper  and  metal  foil,  packaged  in  a  metal 
case.  They  include  both  single  and  double  units  in  a  package,  connected 
to  two,  three,  or  four  terminals.  The  networks  consist  of  a  capacitor  of 
this  same  type  connected  in  series  with  a  resistor. 

The  testing  requirements  for  capacitors  include  dielectric  strength, 
capacitance,  and  insulation  resistance.  These  same  tests  plus  impedance 
measurements  are  specified  for  networks.  In  general,  requirements  of 
the  kind  involved  here  could  be  adequately  verified  by  statistical  sam- 
pling inspection.  However,  in  equipment  as  complex  as  automatic  tele- 
phone switching  frames,  even  the  minor  number  of  dielectric  failures 
that  would  elude  a  properly  designed  sampling  inspection  would  result 
in  an  intolerable  expense  in  the  assembly  and  wiring  operations.  While 
engineering  considerations  thus  called  for  a  detailed  inspection  for  di- 
electric breakdown,  it  was  recognized  that  detailed  inspection  of  the 
other  electrical  requirements  could  be  obtained  at  no  additional  expense 
for  labor  with  automatic  testing  machines. 

1179 


1180      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 
DESIGN   CONSIDERATIONS 

In  the  development  of  this  machine,  the  designer  was  faced  with  the 
same  problems  that  obtain  in  the  conception  and  design  of  any  unit  of 
complex  equipment.  These  included  the  economic  feasibility,  reliability, 
simplicity,  and  versatility  of  such  a  machine. 

Economic  Feasihilitij 

This  can  be  determined  by  comparing  the  cost  of  performing  the  opera- 
tions to  be  made  by  the  proposed  machine  with  the  cost  by  alternative 
methods.  Estimates  indicated  that  the  cost  of  the  machines  could  be  re- 
covered within  two  years  by  the  saving  in  labor  that  would  be  effected. 

Reliability 

Reliability  has  two  connotations,  (1)  freedom  from  interruptions  of 
production  because  of  mechanical  or  electrical  failure  and  (2)  consistent 
reproducible  performance.  A  rugged  mechanical  design  combined  with 
the  use  of  the  most  reliable  electrical  components  available  is  necessary. 
In  addition,  safeguards  are  required  to  protect  the  equipment  from  me- 
chanical or  electrical  damage.  To  achieve  consistent  reproducible  per- 
formance, it  is  important  that  testing  circuits  of  adequate  stability  be 
used.  Besides,  it  was  recognized  that  each  circuit  should  be  so  ar- 
ranged that  in  case  of  a  circuit  failure,  there  would  be  immediate  and 
positive  action  by  the  machine  to  prevent  acceptance  of  defective  prod- 
uct. All  circuits  are  designed  to  provide  positive  acceptance.  This  means 
that  the  machine  must  take  action  to  accept  each  item  of  product  at 
each  test  position.  In  the  case  of  the  dielectric  strength  tests,  a  self- 
checking  feature  is  included. 


Fig.  1  —  Types  of  capacitors  and  networks  tested. 


AUTOMATIC   MACHINE   FOR   TESTING   CAPACITORS   AND    NETAVORKS      1181 

SimTplicity 

This  type  of  equipment  is  operated  by  non-technical  personnel.  To 
'minimize  the  possibility  of  improper  operation  of  the  equipment,  it  is 
important  that  adjustments  and  judgment  decisions  by  the  operator  be 
minimized.  From  a  production  standpoint,  it  is  important  that  the  ma- 
chine be  designed  to  permit  quick  changes  to  handle  the  variety  of  prod- 
uct to  be  tested.  All  "set-ups"  are  made  by  the  operator  and  the  switch- 
ing of  circuits  and  changing  of  contact  fixtures  are  simply  and  easily 
done. 

Versatililij 

The  product  tested  by  this  machine  includes  a  variety  of  physical 
sizes  and  terminal  arrangements  with  a  wide  range  of  electrical  test 
requirements  (Fig.  1). 

a.  Physical  Sizes.  The  aluminum  containers  for  this  type  of  capacitors 
and  R.C.  Networks  all  have  the  same  nominal  length  and  width  but  are 
made  in  three  different  thicknesses. 

b.  Terminals.  The  product  is  made  with  terminals  of  two  different 
lenths,  two  different  spacings,  and  four  different  patterns  connected  in 
eight  combinations.  It  is  necessary  to  provide  contact  fixtures  and 
switching  facilities  to  handle  all  of  these  combinations. 

c.  Electrical  Tests 

(1)  Dielectric  strength  tests  are  made  between  terminals,  and  between 
terminals  and  can,  on  single  unit  packages.  Two-unit  packages  require 
an  additional  test  between  units. 

(2)  Capacitance:  The  capacitance  of  the  product  to  be  tested  ranges 
from  0.02  mf  to  5.0  mf  or  any  combination  within  this  range  in  one-  or 
two-unit  packages  with  no  series  resistance  in  the  case  of  capacitors,  but 
with  a  series  resistor  from  100  ohms  to  1,000  ohms  in  the  case  of  net- 
works. This  problem  is  discussed  in  more  detail  in  the  description  of  the 
capacitance  test  circuit. 

(3)  Insulation  Resistance :  The  minimum  requirements  vary  from  375 
megohms  to  3,000  megohms. 

(4)  Impedance:  The  RC  networks  have  impedance  requirements  at 
15  kc  that  range  from  100  ohms  to  1,000  ohms. 

MECHANICAL   ASPECTS   OF   TESTING   MACHINE 

Packaging  of  the  product  precludes  a  magazine  type  of  feed  because 
the  variety  of  terminal  combinations  associated  with  two-unit  packages 
necessitates  orientation  in  the  contact  fixtures  that  can  not  be  done  by 


1182      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


1.  HANDWHEEL   FOR  POSITIONING   TEST    FIXTURES. 

2.  ROTARY    FEED    MECHANISM. 

3.  PRODUCT  PASSING  ALL  TESTS  EJECTED  FROM  FIXTURE. 

4.  INSULATION  RESISTANCE  TEST  PANEL  AND  TERMINAL 
COMBINATION  "setup"  SWITCHES. 

5.  CABINET   HOUSING  TEST   CIRCUITS. 

6.  CONTAINERS  FOR  REJECTED  PRODUCT. 

Fig.  2  —  Testing  machine  in  operation. 


mechanical  means.  A  turret  type  construction  is  used  to  permit  one 
operator  to  perform  both  the  loading  and  unloading  operations. 

Fig.  2  shows  this  machine  in  operation.  The  networks  or  capacitors 
are  fed  into  the  fixtures  by  an  operator  and  as  the  turret  carries  the  fix- 
tures past  the  feed  mechanism,  rollers  on  the  feed  mechanism  are  syn- 
chronized with  the  fixtures  and  the  roller  forces  the  unit  under  test  into 
the  contact  fixture  against  a  spring  loaded  plunger  to  make  contact  with 
the  fixture  contact  springs.  Also,  synchronized  wdth  the  feed  mechanism 
is  the  closing  of  the  gripper  hook  on  the  bottom  end  of  the  can  contain- 
ing the  unit  under  test. 


AUTOMATIC    MACHINE    FOR   TESTING    CAPACITORS    AND    NETWORKS       1183 


REJECT 
CHUTE 


UPPER  FIXTURE 
FOR  SHORT 
TERMINAL   PRODUCT. 


PRODUCT  ON  TEST 


GRIPPER  HOOK 


PIN  FOR 
SYNCHRONIZING 
ROTARY  FEED 
MECHANISM. 


gripper  h00;< 
follower  arm 
and  roller. 

"acceptance" 

SOLENOID  plunger 

"acceptance" 
solenoid. 


Fig.  3  —  View  of  rejection  and  acceptance  mechanisms. 


commutator  brush  assembly 
and  associated  wiring. 


UPPER  CONTACT   FIXTURE 
FOR  SHORT  TERMINAL 
PRODUCT. 


OVERLOAD  SLIP   CLUTCH 
AND  OVERLOAD   SHUT-OFF 
SWITCH. 


Fig.  4  —  View  of  turret. 


1184      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    195G 

The  acceptance  or  rejection  of  a  unit  under  test  at  any  one  of  the  six' 
test  positions  depends  on  whether  the  test  on  the  unit  energizes  the  i 
"acceptance"  solenoid  associated  with  that  test  position.  The  gripper 
hook,  which  locks  the  unit  under  test  in   the  contact  fixture,  is  con- 
nected to  a  release  shaft,  follower  arm,  and  roller  (see  Fig.  3).  The  roller 
rides  in  a  track  in  which  the  plunger  of  each  "acceptance"  solenoid  hes, 
unless  removed  by  energizing  the  solenoid  from  its  associated  test  cir-i 
cuit.  In  the  case  of  a  defective  unit,  the  acceptance  solenoid  is  not  ener-  ■ 
gized  and  the  roller  in  passing  over  the  plunger  of  the  "acceptance"  » 
solenoid  trips  the  gripper  hook  and  the  spring  loaded  plunger  in  the  'H 
contact  fixture  ejects  the  defective  unit.  Units  that  pass  all  tests  are 
ejected  on  a  turntable  to  the  left  of  the  operator  from  which  they  are 
stacked  in  handling  trays  by  the  operator. 

The  turret  assembly  includes  the  test  fixtures,  the  gripper  hooks  and 
associated  release  shaft,  follower  arm  and  I'oller,  and  the  brush  assembly 


DIELECTRIC   STRENGTH  CONTROL 
PANEL. 


RESISTANCE  STANDARDS  FOR 
IMPEDANCE   TEST  CIRCUIT. 


SENSITROL  RELAY  FOR  IMPEDANCE 
TEST   CIRCUIT. 


5    KILO-CYCLE   OSCILLATOR. 


POWER  SUPPLIES   AND  SWITCHING 
PANELS. 


Fig.  5  —  Control  panels  for  dielectric  strength  and  impedance  tests. 


AUTOMATIC    MACHINE    FOR    TESTING    CAPACITORS   AND    NETWORKS      1185 

connected  to  the  test  fixtures.  The  commutator  is  stationary  and  its 
segments  are  connected  to  the  test  circuit  through  permanent  wiring. 
Fig.  4  shows  the  turret.  Each  fixture  has  two  sections,  one  above  the 
other,  with  the  contacts  wired  in  parallel.  The  lower  section  is  designed 
for  making  contact  to  stud  mounted  units  with  long  terminals  and  the 
upper  section  for  strap  mounted  units  with  short  terminals.  To  change 
the  machine  "set-up"  from  one  fixture  to  the  other,  the  turret  assembly 
i.s  raised  or  lowered  by  means  of  the  hand  wheel,  shown  on  Fig.  2,  lo- 
cated at  the  right  of  the  operator.  This  feature  was  incorporated  in  this 
machine  to  facilitate  rapid  "set-up"  which  is  essential  for  testing  small 
lots.  An  overload  clutch  is  incorporated  in  the  driving  mechanism  to 
prevent  mechanical  damage  to  the  machine  in  case  of  a  "jam". 

Fig.  5  shows  the  control  panels  for  dielectric  strength  and  impedance 
and  Fig.  6  shows  the  control  panels  for  the  capacitance  circuits. 


*    'JSi.    'ii. 


ij;;  CAPACITANCE  STANDARDS 
FOR  PADDING  TEST 
CIRCUIT  ON  UNIT  NCI 


-CAPACITANCE  STANDARD 
SERIES-PARALLEL 
AND   RANGE 
SELECTOR  SWITCHES. 


CAPACITANCE  STANDARDS 
FOR  PADDING  TEST 
CIRCUIT  ON  UNIT  N0.2 


Fig.  6  —  Control  panels  for  capacitance  circuits. 


< 


L 


z 

LU 
liJ3 

Ct  LU 
<C0 

Oct 

ii 

2 
O 
O 


z 

LU 
10 

h- 
LU 


o 


\ 


■"  UaaHi 

1^ 


-ICE 

<o 

j.     0] 

O  «1 

O  uu 


-AAAr 


I— w^ 

o    .o 

I    <'0 

OU(0 

Z      lU 
;       tr 


m    o 


11 

is' 

LU  Q"^ 

tr  z 
CD  - 


E 


'-^AVi 


nswtTM 


O   1£) 


CD 


QI0N3"I0S 
,ONIid3DOV,> 

— OrCTP 


1  <^ 

u  <  ;o  "^ 

o  q'~  tr 


CO 


O  V 

O  _l  < 

I  <  -J 

z 


tr 


t 


^ 


(r 

Q  _| 

Z 


ONilVDIQNI 
NM0aviV3aQ 
AaVQNODaS 


cr 
lU  O 
O  I- 

o  o 

>   LU 

tr 


Hi 


O  _l  'J 
Z       (/) 


cc  -1 
tui- 

OJ 

'  I- 


^ 


■S-   ^  ( 1 1 
UJ  I 


'a 


q:<; 


1186 


>    AUTOMATIC   MACHINE    FOR   TESTING   CAPACITORS   AND    NETWORKS      1187 
ELECTRICAL   ASPECTS   OF   TESTING   MACHINES 

Tests  are  applied  to  the  product  in  sequence  during  one  revolution  of 
the  turret. 

1.  Dielectric  strength  test  between  terminals  and  can,  and  between 
terminals  and  studs. 

2.  Dielectric  strength  test  between  units  in  the  same  can  when  the 
can  contains  two  units. 

3.  Dielectric  strength  test  between  terminals  of  each  unit. 

4.  Impedance  test. 

5.  Capacitance  test. 

6.  Insulation  resistance  test. 


Dielectric  Strength  Test  Circuit  Operation 

Since  the  three  dielectric  strength  tests  are  made  on  similar  circuits, 
the  operation  of  one  of  these  circuits  is  described  using  the  nomenclature 
and  circuit  designations  shown  in  Fig.  7.  A  graphic  interpretation  of  the 
circuit  operations  shown  in  Fig.  7  is  given  in  Fig.  8. 

The  "heart"  of  each  circuit  is  a  calibrated  current  sensitive  relay  K2 
that  operates  on  minute  values  of  current  resulting  when  a  defective 
unit  under  test  attempts  to  charge  on  the  "test"  commutator  position. 


CAPACITOR  ATTACHED  TO  INITIAL 
ICHARGE  COMMUTATOR  SEGMENT 
I 


3  SECONDS 


TEST 
CAPACITOR 


® 


DEFECTIVE 
PRODUCT 


;  CAPACITOR  CHARGED 

ACCEPTABLE    /Os 
PRODUCT       W 


K2 
K3 
K4 


o- 


CAPACITOR 

ATTACHED 

TO   TEST 

SEGMENT 


OPENS  K5 

OPERATORS    PATH 

(PRODUCT    REJECTED) 


K2- 


K3- 


I-l 
LAMP 


TEST   CIRCUIT 
NORMAL 


-> 


RESETS 

TEST 
CIRCUIT 


T 


■^ 


2  SECONDS 


v;s2 

CAM  SWITCH 


--K5 


2|   SECONDS 


S4 

CAM  SWITCH 

K9 


CAPACITOR 
DISCHARGED 


--K7,K11 


ACCEPTANCE 
SOLENOID, 
PRODUCT 
ACCEPTED 


wCAMMED  TIME 
■SWITCH 

:k6 

K2 
K3 


--*^^1       %^\ 


I-l 
LAMP 


Fig.  8  —  Sequence  chart  for  dielectric  strength  test  circuit  operation. 


1188      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Two  commutator  segments  are  required  to  make  a  dielectric  strength 
test.  These  segments  are  known  as  "initial  charge"  and  "test".  After 
the  unit  under  test  has  been  charged  at  the  test  voltage  for  three  sec- 
onds on  the  "initial  charge"  segment,  it  passes  to  the  "test"  segment  in' 
which  the  unit  is  again  connected  to  the  test  voltage  through  relay  K2,' 
current  limiting  and  calibrating  resistors  R3  and  R4  and  the  contacts; 
on  the  preset  terminal  selecting  relays  KIO.  ■. 

One  of  the  two  conditions  (under  heading  A  and  B  below)  may  be^ 
encountered  in  making  this  test  and  the  circuit  operation  for  each  will 
be  discussed  separately. 

A.  Circuit  Operation  for  AcceptaUe  Product.  An  acceptable  product 
retains  the  charge  received  on  the  "initial  charge"  segments  and  when! 
this  unit  reaches  the  "test"  segment,  no  further  charging  current  of  a- 
magnitude  great  enough  to  operate  relay  K2  will  flow  through  the  unit. 
Two  seconds  after  the  unit  under  test  has  been  connected  to  the  test 
segment,  a  cammed  timing  switch  S4  closes  to  operate  discharge  relay  K9 
to  discharge  the  unit  under  test  to  ground  through  R7.  The  "self-check-" 
ing"  feature  mentioned  earlier  in  this  article  under  "Design  Considera- : 
tions"  functions  as  follows:  After  the  unit  under  test  has  been  on  the 
"test"  segment  for  approximately  2%  seconds,  a  cammed  timing  switch  ; 
(not  shown)  closes  the  memory  test  relay  K6  which  in  turn  closes  the  \ 
"go"  calibration  indicator  relay  K5  and  the  "A"  contacts  on  this  relay; 
grounds  the  high  voltage  test  circuit  through  resistor  R6.  This  resistor  | 
is  of  such  a  value  as  to  permit  sufficient  current  to  operate  relay  K2.  i 
The  contacts  on  relay  K2  are  not  adequate  to  carry  much  current,  so  ' 
an  auxiliary  relay  K3  is  closed  through  contacts  "A"  on  relay  K2. 
Contacts  "B"  on  relay  K3  closes  the  indicator  light  circuit  II  and  oper- 
ates relay  Kll  and  the  acceptance  solenoid  K7.  Contacts  "A"  on  the 
same  relay  lock  relay  Kll.  The  circuit  is  reset  for  the  next  vmit  to  be 
tested  by  momentarily  opening  the  reset  cammed  switch  S2.  Relay  Kll 
was  added  to  the  circuit  to  eliminate  a  "sneak  circuit"  that  occurred 
occasionally  following  the  reset  when  relay  K5  opened  faster  than  relay 
K3.  This  would  result  in  relay  K4  operating  to  reject  the  next  unit  tested. 
Relay  Kl  is  controlled  by  switch  SI  operated  by  the  manual  control 
Tl  on  the  test  voltage  power  supply.  The  function  of  this  relay  is  to  add 
calibrating  resistor  R4  to  the  test  circuit  for  voltages  above  1,000  volts. 
Resistor  R5,  relay  K8,  and  switch  S3  control  the  manual  calibrating 
"No  Go"  circuit  for  breakdown  indicating  relay  K2. 

B.  Circuit  Operation  for  Defective  Product.  Defective  product  will  not 
retain  the  charge  it  received  on  the  "initial  charge"  segment  and  when 
it  reaches  the  "test"  segment,  current  will  flow  through  the  breakdown 


AUTOMATIC    MACHINE    FOR   TESTING    CAPACITORS    AND    NETWORKS      1189 

indicating  relay  K2  in  an  attempt  to  charge  the  defective  unit,  l)ut  this 
current  will  close  relay  K2  which  in  turn  closes  relay  K3.  This  completes 
the  circuit  through  the  "B"  contacts  of  relays  K3,  K5,  and  Kll  to  close 
memory  relay  K4.  The  closure  of  relay  K4  prevents  the  memory  test 
I  relay  KG  from  closing  the  "go"  calibration  indicator  relay  K5,  thereby 
heaving  contact  "C"  open  on  relay  K5  and  no  power  is  applied  to  the 
"acceptance  solenoid"  K7  circuit,  which  rejects  the  unit  under  test. 

IMPEDANCE  — •  TEST   CIRCUIT    OPERATION 

The  impedance  test  is  made  with  a  15-kc  circuit  (see  Fig.  9).  One  arm 
of  the  circuit,  composed  of  resistor  R12  paralleled  by  capacitor  C5  and 
the  imit  under  test,  is  compared  with  another  arm,  composed  of  resistor 
Pvll,  paralleled  by  capacitor  C4  and  either  one  of  two  resistance  boxes, 
R13  and  R14  respectively,  representing  maximum  and  minimum  im- 
pedance limits.  The  detector  consists  of  a  balanced  diode  V2  with  a  1-0-1 
microampere  sensitrol  relay  K24  connected  between  the  diode  cathodes. 
If  the  impedance  of  the  unit  imder  test  falls  within  the  limits  for  which 
the  resistance  boxes  were  set,  the  acceptance  solenoid  will  be  energized 
to  accept  the  unit  under  test.  A  product  outside  the  preset  limits  is  re- 
jected because  the  acceptance  solenoid  is  not  energized. 

The  circuit  operation  is  discussed  for  the  following  four  conditions 
under  A,  B,  C,  and  D. 

A.  Impedance  Test  on  Dual  Unit  Capacitors 

This  test  is  made  on  capacitors  to  prevent  shipment  of  resistance- 
capacitance  networks  mislabeled  as  capacitors.  Fig.  9  shows  dual  unit 
networks  connected  to  the  test  terminals.  Capacitors  to  be  tested  are 
connected  to  these  same  terminals.  The  greater  than  minimum  test 
cutout  relay  K18  is  preset  closed  by  the  switching  circuit  K23.  The 
cammed  memory  reset  timing  switch  S14  (normally  closed)  is  opened 
momentarily  to  clear  relay  K19,  K20,  and  K21  at  the  start  of  the  test. 

The  sensitrol  relay  reset  switch  S16  is  cammed  shut  momentarily  to 
reset  the  contactor  on  the  sensitrol  relay  K24.  With  relay  K2(3  open,  the 
"less  than  maximum"  resistance  box  R13  is  connected  to  the  test  cir- 
cuit. If  unit  "A"  of  the  dual  unit  capacitor  under  test  is  acceptable 
product,  the  contactor  on  sensitrol  relay  K24  will  close  on  contact  "A", 
which  applies  power  to  close  and  lock  test  No.  1  "less  than  maximum" 
memory  relay  K19.  Cam  operated  switch  S13  applies  power  to  close 
relay  K26  to  connect  the  "greater  than  minimum"  resistance  box  R14 
into  the  test  circuit.  This  resistance  box  is  set  on  zero  ohms  when  capaci- 


—nm^ — 

aiON3"10S 

,3Nlld3DDV„ 

S2M 


CO 


f\ 


-2- 

O  <  5 


O    <t-    -=    > 


20< 


Ul  '"  ^  ,  n  1^ 


^ 


J;  <  5  > 

I-  Ul  X  ,f  ,  liJ 

in  1/1  <  !i  ct 

Ly  uj  5  ^ 

1 —  I 


1  -'  ( 


I 


u 

UJ  CO 

I/) 

UJ  O 
CC  Z 


aj5 

OCt- 

't—  UJ 


.(HI 


I      (M     I 


Avn3d  aaAOHoiiMS 
xoB  aavQNVis 


tr 


c/)  < 

~  a. 


tr 
O 

5-1  en 

</) 
o 


|22| 


CDuJt 
(,0       I- 


1190 


AUTOMATIC   MACHINE   FOR   TESTING    CAPACITORS   AND    NETWORKS      1191 

tors  are  tested.  Sensitrol  relay  reset  switch  S16  is  cammed  shut  momen- 
tarily to  reset  sensitrol  relay  K24,  after  which  the  sensitrol  relay  con- 
tactor closes  on  its  "B"  contact,  thereby  applying  power  to  close  and 
lock  test  No.  1  "greater  than  minimum"  memory  relay  K21. 

Switch  S13  is  cammed  open  which  opens  relay  K26  and  connects  the 
"less  than  maximum"  resistance  box  R13  into  the  test  circuit.  At  the 
same  time  switch  S12  is  cammed  shut  to  close  relay  K27  which  discon- 
nects unit  "A"  from  test  and  connects  unit  "B"  to  the  test  circuit. 
Switch  S16  is  cammed  shut  momentarily  to  reset  the  sensitrol  relay  con- 
tactor. If  the  unit  "B"  on  test  is  an  acceptable  product,  the  sensitrol  relay 
contactor  will  close  on  its  "A"  contacts  and  applies  power  to  close  and 
lock  test  No.  2  "less  than  maximum"  memory  relay  K20  through  con- 
tacts "B"  of  relay  K27. 

Switch  S13  is  cammed  shut  to  close  relay  K26  and  connect  the  "greater 
than  minimum"  resistance  box  R14  into  the  test  circuit.  Switch  S16  is 
cammed  shut  momentarily  to  reset  the  sensitrol  relay  K24  after  which 
its  contactor  closes  on  the  "B"  contact  for  acceptable  product.  Mem- 
ory circuit  timing  switch  S15  is  cammed  shut  and  power  from  one  side 
of  the  110  volt  ac  line  flows  through  the  acceptance  solenoid,  contacts 
"A"  on  relay  K19,  contacts  "A"  on  relay  K20,  the  closed  contacts  on 
relay  K18  to  the  other  side  of  the  110-volt  ac  line  to  close  K25  and  to 
accept  the  dual  unit  capacitor  under  test.  The  failure  of  either  relay  K19 
or  K20  to  operate  because  of  defective  product  tested  opens  the  ac- 
ceptance solenoid  circuit  and  rejects  the  capacitor  tested. 

B.  Impedance  Test  on  Single  Unit  Capacitors 

The  impedance  test  on  a  single  unit  capacitor  is  identical  with  the 
testing  of  dual  unit  capacitors,  except  test  No.  2  cutout  relay  K22  is 
preset  closed  and  test  No.  2  "less  than  maximum"  memory  relay  K20 
is  not  operated  since  only  a  single  unit  is  tested. 

C.  Impedance  Test  on  Dual  Unit  Networks 

The  impedance  test  on  dual  unit  networks  is  identical  with  the  test 
for  dual  unit  capacitors,  except  the  "greater  than  minimum"  test  cut- 
out relay  K18  is  not  preset  closed  and  the  resistance  boxes  R13  and  R14 
are  set  to  represent  maximum  and  minimum  limits. 

D.  Impedance  Test  on  Single  Unit  Networks 

The  impedance  test  on  single  unit  networks  is  identical  with  the  test 
of  dual  unit  networks  except  test  No.  2  cutout  relay  K22  is  preset  closed 
for  the  same  reason  given  above  for  the  test  of  single  unit  capacitors. 


1192      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


1 


Fig.  10  —  Details  of  modified  microfarad  meter. 


CAPACITANCE   TEST   CIRCUIT   OPERATION 

The  wide  range  of  capacitance  values  to  be  measured,  both  with  and 
without  the  series  resistance  in  resistance-capacitance  networks,  and  the 
one  and  two-unit  construction  of  the  product  imposed  limitations  on  the 
type  of  capacitance  measuring  circuits  that  could  be  used  in  this  ma- 
chine. The  method  selected  consists  of  modified  Weston  Model  372 
microfarad  meters  that  automatically  set  up  external  circuits  associated 
with  the  meters  to  accept  or  reject  the  product  as  determined  by  limits 
preset  into  the  machine. 

Two  decade  capacitance  boxes,  having  a  range  from  0.001  to  1.0  mf 
in  steps  of  0.001  mf  are  connected  in  series  or  parallel  with  the  capacitoi' 
on  test  to  make  the  resultant  capacitance  fit  the  range  of  the  meter  and 
control  the  maximum  and  minimum  limits.  This  procedure  increases  the 
number  of  capacitor  codes  that  may  be  tested  on  a  given  meter.  Capaci- 


AUTOMATIC    MACHINE    FOR    TESTING    CAPACITORS    AND    NETWORKS       1193 

tors  from  0.02  to  5  microfarads  are  tested  on  this  machine  to  an  accuracy 
of  ±2  per  cent. 

The  modified  microfarad  meters  are  equipped  with  two  brass  seg- 
ments, covered  with  an  overlay  of  silver  (Fig.  10).  These  segments  are 
mounted  end  to  end  in  a  predetermined  cutout  portion  of  the  meter 
scale,  representing  maximum  and  minimum  capacitance  conditions.  The 
physical  distance  between  the  adjacent  ends  of  these  two  segments  is  as 
small  as  possible  without  the  two  segments  touching.  A  small  silver  con- 
tact is  mounted  on  an  insulated  portion  of  the  meter  pointer,  directly 
at)Ove  but  not  touching  the  segments  while  the  meter  pointer  traverses 
its  arc  of  rotation.  The  armature  of  the  relay,  mounted  on  the  meter, 
i  actuates  a  contactor  arm  which  forces  the  silver  contact  on  the  pointer 
I  down  against  the  silver  overlay  segment,  thus  closing  external  circuits 

connected  to  the  segments  and  contactor. 
I       The  testing  machine  is  equipped  with  three  ranges  of  the  special 
microfarad  meters  as  follows: 

1.  Suppressed  scale  from  1.2  to  1.8  mf,  with  the  dividing  point  be- 
tween the  two  segments  at  1.60  mf. 

2.  Suppressed  scale  from  0.25  to  0.75  mf,  with  the  dividing  point  be- 
tween the  two  segments  at  0.63  mf. 

3.  Suppressed  scale  from  0.051  to  0.075  mf  with  the  dividing  point 
between  the  two  segments  at  0.062  mf. 

Two  meters  for  each  of  the  above  ranges  are  necessary  in  each  testing 
machine,  one  for  each  unit  in  a  dual  unit.  Likewise,  four  capacitance 
boxes  are  necessary,  two  for  each  unit  in  a  dual  unit. 

The  discussion  that  follows,  which  is  divided  into  two  headings,  A 
and  B,  is  a  detailed  description  of  the  capacitance  test  circuit.  The  cir- 
cuit component  designations  are  those  shown  in  Fig.  11. 

A .  Capacitance  Test  on  Dual  Unit  Capacitors  or  Networks 

The  cammed  switch  S5  is  opened  momentarily  at  the  beginning  of  the 
test  to  restore  the  test  circuit  to  normal;  following  this,  the  cammed 
switch  S8  closes  and  operates  relay  K14,  which  applies  power  and  closes 
the  power  supply  circuit  through  the  microfarad  meters  and  the  capacitor 
on  test. 

The  capacitance  decade  box  "less  than  maximum"  C2  is  shown  in 
series  with  test  capacitor  No.  1  by  the  preset  series-parallel  switch  SIO, 
and  in  a  like  manner  a  capacitance  box  is  connected  in  series  with  test 
capacitor  No.  2. 


1194      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


'im^ 


AUTOMATIC   MACHINE   FOR   TESTING   CAPACITORS   AND    NETWORKS      1195 

Note:  The  capacitance  decade  box  for  Test  No.  2  is  not  shown  in  Fig. 
11.  Also,  only  the  segments  for  M2  Test  No.  2  microfarad  meter  are 
sliown. 

If  capacitor  units  No.  1  and  No.  2  under  test  are  acceptable  product, 
the  pointer  on  the  microfarad  meters  Ml  and  M2  will  both  swing  to 
segment  "A".  The  cammed  switch  S7  will  close  and  energize  the  relay 
on  the  microfarad  meters  (not  shown  on  meter  M2)  which  will  operate 
the  meter  contactor  and  close  the  circuit  through  segments  "A"  of  meters 
Ml  and  M2  and  apply  24  volts  dc  to  close  and  lock  the  "less  than  maxi- 
mum" memory  relay  K12. 

The  cammed  switch  S7  is  opened  to  release  the  meter  pointer  from 
segments  "A"  on  Ml  and  M2.  Cammed  swdtch  S8  is  opened  momen- 
tarily to  release  relay  K14  which  removes  the  test  voltage  from  the 
capacitors  on  test  and  from  meter  Ml  and  M2.  During  this  interval 
cammed  switch  Sll  is  closed  to  energize  relay  K16  which  connects  the 
"greater  than  minimum"  capacitance  box  C3  in  series  with  capacitor 
unit  No.  1  on  test  and  meter  Ml.  In  a  like  manner  a  second  "greater 
than  minimum"  capacitance  decade  box  (not  shown  on  Fig.  10)  is  con- 
nected in  series  with  capacitor  unit  No.  2  and  microfarad  meter  No.  2. 
If  the  capacitor  units  No.  1  and  No.  2  under  test  are  acceptable  product, 
the  microfarad  meter  pointers  will  swing  to  segments  "B".  The  cammed 
switch  S7  will  close  and  energize  the  relay  on  the  microfarad  meters  Ml 
and  M2  which  will  operate  the  contactor  that  depresses  the  Ml  and  M2 
meter  pointers  against  segments  B  and  closes  and  locks  the  "greater  than 
minimum"  memory  relay  K13.  With  relays  K12  and  K13  closed  as 
described  above,  the  cammed  switch  S6  is  closed  which  operates  the 
acceptance  solenoid  K17  through  the  "A"  contacts  on  relays  K12  and 
K13  to  accept  the  dual  unit  capacitor  under  test. 

It  may  be  readily  observed  that  in  case  either  or  both  of  the  capacitor 
units  on  test  are  out  of  limits,  the  circuit  will  not  close  either  or  both 
relays  K12  and  K13,  w'hich  would  leave  the  acceptance  solenoid  K17 
circuit  open,  and  the  product  would  be  rejected. 

B.  Capacitance  Test  of  Single  Unit  Capacitors  or  Networks 

The  capacitance  test  of  single  unit  capacitors  is  the  same  as  for  dual 
unit  capacitors,  except  test  No.  2  circuit  and  test  No.  2  microfarad 
meter  M2  are  not  used.  Test  No.  2  cutout  relay  K15  is  closed  to  apply 
ground  to  its  contacts  B  and  D. 


CURRENT    LIMITING    RESISTORS 
R15 


SWITCHING 
CIRCUITS 


S2I 

TEST    NO. 2 

CUTOUT    SWITCH 


Fig.  12  —  Simplified  schematic  of  insulation  resistance  test  circuits. 

1196 


AUTOMATIC  MACHINE  FOR  TESTING  CAPACITORS  AND  NETWORKS       1 197 
IXSULATION   RESISTANCE   TEST   CIRCUIT   OPERATION 

In  general,  the  insulation  resistance  test  consists  of  a  charging  period 
and  a  test  period.  The  charging  of  the  unit  inider  test  recjuires  10  posi- 
tions or  30  seconds  time  to  insure  that  the  unit  is  thoroughly  charged 
before  it  reaches  the  test  position.  At  the  test  position  the  capacitor  or 
network  on  test  is  connected  to  form  part  of  a  voltage  divider  in  the 
grid  circuit  of  a  sensitive  balanced  detector.  This  sets  up  relays  to  accept 
or  reject  the  unit  vmder  test  depending  on  whether  the  unit  meets  the 
limits  for  which  the  circuit  was  preset  and  calibrated.  Two  insulation 
resistance  circuits  are  rec^uired,  one  for  each  unit  in  a  dual  unit  capacitor 
or  network.  A  calibrating  circuit  is  provided  by  switch  S23  and  resistors 
lUl,  IU2,  and  R43. 

The  discussion  that  follows  is  a  detailed  description  of  the  sequence  of 
operation  of  the  insulation  resistance  test  circuit.  The  component  desig- 
nations are  those  shown  on  Fig.  12.  The  discussion  is  divided  into  two 
headings  A  and  B  as  follows: 

A .  Insulation  Resistance  Test  on  Dual  Unit  Capacitors  or  Networks 

The  capacitor  or  network  on  test  is  automatically  connected  in  suc- 
cession to  the  INITIAL  CHARGE  POSITION,  the  LONG  SOAK  POSITION  and 

FIVE  CONDITIONING  POSITIONS  which  assures  that  the  acceptable  product 
is  thoroughly  charged  before  it  reaches  the  test  position.  The  switching 
circuits  K28,  K29,  K30,  K31  switch  S18,  and  the  temperature  compen- 
sating switch  S17  are  manual  preset  switch  circuits  for  the  particular 
code  on  test. 

For  the  sake  of  simplicity,  the  balanced  detector  and  the  reset  solenoid 
for  sensitrol  relay  K3-1:  for  test  circuit  No.  2  are  not  shown.  If  the  insula- 
tion resistance  of  the  imits  on  test  meets  the  limits  for  which  the  circuit 
was  calibrated  and  preset,  the  contactor  on  K33  and  K34  both  close  on 
the  "A"  contacts.  Switch  S20  is  then  cammed  closed  to  apply  power 
through  the  "A"  contacts  on  the  sensitrol  relays  to  energize  the  accept- 
ance solenoid  K36  to  accept  the  units  on  test.  At  the  close  of  the  test, 
capacitor  discharge  timing  switch  S22  is  cammed  closed,  thereby  closing 
the  capacitor  discharge  relay  K32  which  discharges  the  imits  on  test 
before  they  are  ejected  as  acceptable  product.  It  may  be  readily  observed 
from  the  schematic  that  a  unit  or  units  defective  for  insulation  resistance 
will  fail  to  close  either  or  both  of  the  "A"  contacts  on  the  sensitrol  relays 
K33  and  K34,  which  leaves  the  acceptance  solenoid  circuit  K3G  open, 
thereby  rejecting  the  units  tested. 


1198      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

B.  Insulation  Resistance  Test  on  Single  Unit  Capacitors  or  Networks 

The  insulation  resistance  test  on  single  unit  capacitors  or  networks  is  ; 
the  same  as  for  dual  units,  except  the  second  test  circuit  is  not  required 
and  test  No.  2  cutout  switch  S21  is  closed  to  operate  test  No.  2  cutout  ' 
relay  K35  which  eliminates  the  second  test  circuit  and  its  sensitrol  relay 
K34. 


CONCLUSION 

This  machine  has  been  in  successful  operation  on  a  multishift  basis 
for  several  years  and  has  proven  itself  economically.  Inspection  of  the 
product  tested  shows  that  the  machine's  performance,  quality  wise,  is 
highly  satisfactory.  Difficulties  that  have  been  encountered  were  largely 
those  associated  with  product  handling,  contact  fixtures,  etc.  Machines 
of  this  type  that  are  planned  for  the  future  will  make  use  of  circuitry 
developed  since  this  machine  was  built,  but  many  of  the  features  de- 
scribed will  be  incorporated. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  to  the  develop- 
ment of  this  machine  of  G.  E.  Weeks  of  the  Western  Electric  Company 
S.  V.  Smith  and  S.  E.  Frisbee  of  the  Electric  Eye  Company. 


A  60-Foot  Diameter  Parabolic  Antenna 
for  Propagation  Stndies* 

By  A.  B.  CRAWFORD,  H.  T.  FRIIS  and  W.  C.  JAKES,  JR. 

(Manuscript  received  February  2,  1956) 

A  solid-surface  parabolic  antenna,  sixty  feet  in  diameter  and  of  alumi- 
iium  construction,  has  been  erected  on  a  hilltop  near  Holmdel,  New  Jersey. 
This  antenna  can  be  steered  in  azimuth  and  elevation  and  was  specially 
ih  signed  for  studies  of  beyond-the-horizon  radio  propagation  at  frequencies 
of  460  mc  and  4,000  mc. 

The  electrical  properties  of  the  antenna  and  the  technique  of  measure- 
ment are  described;  construction  and  mechanical  details  are  discussed  briefly. 

IXTRODUCTION 

Studies  in  recent  years  have  demonstrated  that  transmission  of  useful 
amounts  of  microwave  energy  is  possible  at  distances  considerably  far- 
ther than  the  horizon. ^  The  exact  mechanism  responsible  is  not  as  yet 
completely  understood,  although  scattering  by  atmospheric  irregularities 
seems  to  play  a  significant  part.  A  program  to  study  the  nature  of  these 
effects  has  been  started  at  the  Holmdel  Laboratory.  An  important  and 
necessary  tool  for  this  work  is  a  steerable  antenna  having  unusually  high 
gain  and  narrow  beam  width.  Such  an  antenna  has  been  built,  and  it  is 
the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  describe  its  design  and  the  methods  used  to 
measure  its  radiation  properties. 

DESCRIPTION    OF   THE   ANTENNA 

The  antenna  is  a  60-foot  diameter  paraboloid  made  up  of  forty-eight 
radial  sectors,  each  constructed  of  sheet  aluminum.  Each  sector  is  held 
to  the  correct  doubly-curved  surface  by  reinforcing  ribs,  and  all  are 
fastened  to  a  central  hub  eight  feet  long  and  thirty  inches  in  diameter. 
During  assembly,  the  axis  of  the  paraboloid  was  vertical;  thus  no  scaf- 

*  This  work  was  supported  in  part  by  Contract  AF  18(600)-572  with  the  U.S. 
Air  Force,  Air  Research  and  Development  Command. 

'  Proc.  I.R.E.,  October,  1955,  contains  many  papers  by  workers  in  this  field. 

1199 


1200      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


Fig.  1  — ■  Fastening  the  I'adial  sectors  to  the  hub. 

folding  was  required.  Figs.  1  to  5  illustrate  the  paraboloid  construction 
and  support.  The  weight  of  the  antenna  is  carried  on  a  vertical  column 
which  is  mounted  on  bearings  to  permit  movement  in  azimuth.  The 
column  is  held  upright  by  a  tripod  structure.  The  central  hub  of  the 
paraboloid  is  fastened  to  a  steel  girder  which  extends  to  the  rear  along 
the  paraboloid  axis  and  is  pinned  to  a  yoke  carried  by  the  vertical  col- 
umn, thus  permitting  movement  in  elevation.  The  antenna  is  scanned 
by  two  motors  mounted  on  an  A-frame  and  connected  to  the  end  of  the 
axial  girder  by  crank  mechanisms.  The  total  scanning  range  of  the  an- 
tenna is  about  3°  in  both  azimuth  and  elevation. 

The  antenna  is  designed  for  use  at  frequencies  of  460  mc  and  4,000 
mc.  The  tolerance  on  the  parabolic  reflecting  surface  is  set  by  the  higher 
frequency  and  thus  must  be  ±t6  i^^ch  to  meet  the  usual  ±X/i6  criteria. 
The  focal  length  is  25  feet,  so  that  the  total  angle  intercepted  by  the 
paraboloid  as  seen  from  the  focal  point  is  124°.  Design  of  a  feed  horn  for 


A    60-FOOT   PARABOLIC   ANTENNA   FOR   PROPAGATION   STUDIES       1201 

this  angle  so  that  the  illumination  is  tapered  to  — 10  db  at  the  edge  of 
the  paraboloid  is  not  difficult;  the  horn  used  is  diagramed  in  Fig.  6,  with 
dimensions  given  in  wave-lengths.  The  feed  horn  is  mounted  in  a  tripod 
.support  extending  out  from  the  front  surface  of  the  paraboloid.  It  is  made 
strong  enough  so  that  two  460  mc  horns  can  be  mounted  side  by  side. 

The  paraboloid  itself  weighs  approximately  53-^  tons;  the  frontal  Avind 
'load  for  a  100  mph  wind  is  about  40  tons.  It  is  expected  that  winds  of 
this  force  will  be  withstood. 

The  antenna  is  mounted  atop  Crawford  Hill  near  Holmdel,  New 
Jersey,  at  an  altitude  of  370  feet.  It  is  aimed  towards  Pharsalia,  New 
i  York,  a  distance  of  about  171  miles. 

I  MEASUREMENT  TECHNIQUE 

I      The  two  important  properties  of  the  antenna  which  had  to  be  deter- 

'  mined  before  it  could  be  put  into  use  were  its  gain  and  radiation  pattern 

at  the  operating  frequencies  of  460  mc  and  4  kmc.  It  was  also  hoped  to 


Fig.  2  —  Assembling  the  sectors. 


I 


Fig.  3  —  The  completed  antenna. 


Fig.  4  —  Front  view  of  the  paraboloid. 
1202 


A   60-FOOT   PARABOLIC   ANTENNA   FOR   PROPAGATION   STUDIES      1203 


Fig.  5  —  Antenna  scanning  motors. 


0-30^ 


Fig.  6  —  Feed  horn  dimensions. 


measure  these  properties  at  9.4  kmc  to  get  some  idea  of  how  good  the 
mechanical  tolerances  actually  are. 

The  first  requisite  for  making  antenna  measurements  is  a  suffi- 
ciently uniform  incident  field.  The  source  producing  this  field  must  be 
located  at  a  distance  of  at  least  2b VX,  (b  is  the  paraboloid  diameter), 
which  means  a  distance  of  about  0.6  mile  at  460  mc,  six  miles  at  4  kmc, 
and  thirteen  miles  at  9.4  kmc.  An  obvious  and  convenient  place  for  the 
sources  was  at  Murray  Hill,  22.8  miles  away,  which  is  on  the  transmis- 
sion path  to  Pharsalia.  Having  located  the  sources  at  a  suitable  distance 
it  was  then  necessary  to  test  the  incident  field  for  uniformity.  A  64-foot 


1204      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


4KMC 
9.4KMC 


Fig.  7  —  Height  run  tower  with  the  three  standard  horns  during  preliminary 
studies  of  the  incident  field. 


tower  was  used  for  this  purpose,  and  the  variation  of  the  incident  field 
with  height  w^as  measured  before  the  antenna  was  erected.  Figs.  7  and 
8  show  a  typical  set  up.  Height  runs  were  taken  at  intervals  of  15  feet 
along  a  line  normal  to  the  direction  of  transmission  in  the  plane  which 
w^ould  eventually  contain  the  antenna  aperture.  The  results  of  these 
tests  showed  that  the  Murray  Hill  location  was  satisfactory  for  the  4 
and  9.4  kmc  sources,  with  ground  reflections  giving  rise  to  ±1  db  varia- 
tions with  height.  In  each  case  several  complete  cycles  occurred  in  the 
60-foot  height  run  so  that  an  average  signal  level  could  be  established 
Avith  an  accuracy  of  a  few  tenths  of  db. 

However,  at  460  mc  the  variation  with  height  was  about  5  db,  and 
only  a  portion  of  one  cycle  was  available,  so  that  the  average  signal  could 
not  be  determined.  The  solution  was  to  bring  the  source  to  a  location 
as  close  as  possible  to  the  effective  ground  reflecting  surface.  Such  a 
location  was  found  at  the  far  edge  of  a  large  body  of  water  lying  in  the 
path,  and  the  source  antenna  was  placed  in  a  mobile  truck  10  feet  above 
the  water  and  eight  miles  away.  The  resulting  variation  with  height  was 
now  only  about  1  db. 

In  all  cases  the  variation  of  field  at  right  angles  to  the  direction  of 
transmission  w^as  found  to  be  no  worse  than  ±1  db;  thus  it  was  felt  that 
suitable  sources  for  test  at  all  three  frequencies  were  now  ready. 


A    60-FOOT   PARABOLIC   ANTENNA   FOR    PROPAGATION   STUDIES      1205 

The  standard  method  of  measuring  the  gain  of  a  microwave  antenna 
is  to  compare  the  signal  received  from  the  antenna  to  that  from  another 
antenna  whose  gain  is  accurately  known.  A  pyramidal  horn  of  about  20 
db  gain  is  usually  used  as  the  standard.  Such  horns  are  readily  available 
at  4  kmc  and  9.4  kmc,  and,  in  principle,  also  at  460  inc.  Under  the 
present  set  up,  however,  the  physical  dimensions  of  the  standard  horn 
were  limited  by  the  necessity  of  raising  the  horn  on  a  carriage  attached 
to  the  64-foot  tower.  The  largest  horn  that  could  be  so  mounted  had  an 
aperture  of  4  feet  X  4  feet,  or  1.8X  on  a  side  at  460  mc.  Since  the  gain  of 
a  horn  of  this  small  aperture  size  cannot  be  accurately  calculated  by  the 
usual  formulas  a  scale  model  was  made  and  tested  at  4  kmc.  The  result 
of  this  test  showed  that  the  actual  horn  gain  was  15.05  db,  which  is 
about  0.4  db  more  than  the  calculated  gain. 

A  typical  gain  measurement  on  the  60-foot  paraboloid  was  thus  made 
as  follows: 

1.  The  feed  position  and  antenna  orientation  were  adjusted  to  obtain 
maximum  received  signal  level. 


Fig.  8  —  Position  of  height  run  tower  during  gain  measurements. 


1206      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

2.  The  average  incident  field  was  determined  by  a  height  run  with  a 
standard  horn. 

3.  The  decibel  gain  of  the  antenna  was  then  calculated  by  adding  the 
db  gain  of  the  standard  horn  to  the  db  difference  in  the  signal  levels 
determined  in  (1)  and  (2). 

The  problem  of  adjusting  the  60-foot  antenna  for  maximum  received 
signal  at  4  kmc  and  9.4  kmc  was  complicated  by  the  scintillations  of  the 


/■^'^:^\\^ 


Fi{ij.  9  -A  view  of  the  iuitennus  at  Crawl'uiU  Hill  used  for  beyund-t  he-horizon 
propagation  studies  and  showing  the  60-foot,  a  28-foot  and  an  8-foot  paraboliod, 
the  latter  between  the  two  larger  ones. 


A   60-FOOT   PARABOLIC   ANTENNA   FOR   PROPAGATION   STUDIES       1207 


Table  I 


Frequency 


460  mc 
3.89  kmc 
9.40  kmc 


Area 

Gain,* 

db 


38.90 
57.44 
65.12 


Gain,  db  Meas. 


37.0  ±  0.1 
54.6  ±  0.2 

61.1  ±  0.5 


Ratio  of 

Effective 
Area  to 

Actual 

Area 

3  db  beam 

width 

1st  Minima 

Calc. 

Meas. 

0.65 
0.52 
0.40 

2.35° 
0.28° 
0.12° 

2.45° 

0.3° 

0.14° 

-33db 
-25db 

1st  Minor 
lobes 


-23db 
-18db 


47r 
*  The  area  gain  is  defined  as  10  log  — —  ,  where  A  is  the  paraboloid  projected 

area,  2,830  square  feet. 

incident  field  at  these  frequencies  due  to  the  remote  location  of  the 
source.  Accordingly,  instead  of  adjusting  the  feed  position  for  maximum 
signal  level,  it  was  adjusted  to  give  vertical  and  horizontal  radiation 
patterns  having  the  best  possible  symmetry,  deepest  minima,  and  lowest 
minor  lobes.  It  was  then  assumed  that  this  was  also  the  point  of  maxi- 
mum gain.  At  460  mc  the  scintillations  were  so  small  that  the  conven- 
tional technique  of  adjusting  for  maximum  output  was  effective. 

A  double  detection  receiver  was  used  for  making  all  measurements. 
Signal  level  decibel  differences  were  established  by  an  attenuator  in  the 
intermediate  frequency  (65  mc)  channel,  and  could  be  determined  to  an 
accuracy  of  dz0.02  db. 


RESULTS 

Carrying  out  the  measuring  procedure  described  above  the  results 
given  in  Table  I  were  obtained.  At  460  mc  the  restricted  scanning  range 
did  not  permit  inspection  of  the  minor  lobes. 


CONCLUDING   REMARKS 

The  overall  performance  of  this  antenna  is  considered  to  be  excellent. 
In  general  the  radiation  patterns  are  clean  with  satisfactory  minor  lobe 
structure.  The  good  performance  at  9.4  kmc  (61  db  gain)  is  particularly 
gratifying,  since  the  mechanical  tolerance  of  zt^fe  inch  is  equivalent  to 
itX/7  at  this  frequency. 

As  stated  earlier,  this  antenna  was  designed  to  provide  a  research  tool 
for  propagation  studies  and  thus  has  some  features  which  are  neither 
necessary  nor  desirable  in  an  antenna  intended  primarily  for  communi- 
cation use.  A  consideration  of  the  problem  of  providing  a  sturdy  60-foot 


1208      THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER,    1956 

antenna  for  fixed  point-to-point  service  led  to  the  square  "bill-board" 
design*  and  antennas  of  this  type  are  now  in  production. 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  construction  of  the  antenna  described  in  this  paper  was  carried 
out  under  the  general  direction  of  H.  W.  Anderson,  Supervisor  of  the 
Holmdel  Shops  Department.  The  paraboloid  was  assembled  in  place 
by  members  of  the  Carpenter  Shop  supervised  by  C.  P.  Clausen.  Daniel 
Beaton,  of  Lorimer  and  Rose,  served  in  an  advisory  capacity  on  some 
features  of  the  construction.  Assistance  in  the  design  and  testing  of  the 
antenna  was  given  by  many  members  of  the  technical  staff. 


*  A  picture  and  short  description  of  this  antenna  appeared  in  Bell  Laboratories 


Record,  34,  p.  37,  Jan.,  1956. 


^i 


The  Use  of  an  Interference  Microscope 

for  Measurement  of  Extremely 

Thin  Surface  Layers 

By.  W.  L.  BOND  and  F.  M.  SMITS 

(Manuscript  received  March  15,  1956) 

A  method  is  given  for  the  thickness  measurement  of  p-type  or  n-type  sur- 
face layers  on  semiconductors.  This  method  requires  the  use  of  samples  with 
optically  flat  and  reflecting  surfaces.  The  surface  is  lapped  at  a  small  angle 
in  order  to  expose  the  p-n  junction.  After  detecting  and  marking  the  p-n 
junction,  the  thickness  is  measured  by  an  interference  microscope.  Another 
application  of  the  equipment  is  the  measurement  of  steps  in  a  surface.  The 
thickness  range  ineasurahle  is  from  5  X  10^^  cm  to  10~^  cm. 

INTRODUCTION 

Extremely  thin  p-type  or  n-type  surface  layers  can  be  obtained  on 
semiconductors  by  recently  developed  diffusion  techniques.^-  -  Layer 
thicknesses  of  the  order  of  10~^  cm  are  currently  used  for  making  diffused 
base  transistors.^'  ^  The  thickness  of  the  diffused  layer  is  an  important 
parameter  for  the  evaluation  of  such  transistors.  Its  measurement  is 
facilitated  by  lapping  a  bevel  on  the  original  surface,  thus  exposing  the 
p-n  junction  within  the  bevel  where  the  thickness  appears  in  an  enlarged 
scale.  With  a  sharp  and  well  defined  angle,  one  would  obtain  the  thick- 
ness by  the  measurement  of  the  angle  and  of  the  distance  between  the 
vertex  and  the  p-n  junction. 

However,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  obtain  vertices  sharp  enough  for 
measurements  of  thicknesses  of  the  order  of  10~*  cm.  To  avoid  this  diffi- 
culty, an  interferometric  method  was  developed  in  which  the  depth  is 
measured  directly  by  counting  interference  fringes  of  monochromatic 
light.  The  method  can  also  be  used  for  the  measurement  of  small  steps 

1  C.  S.  Fuller,  Phys.  Rev.,  86,  p.  136,  1952. 

2  J.  S.  Saby  and  W.  C.  Dunlap,  Jr.,  Phys.  Rev.,  90,  p.  630,  1953. 
'  C.  A.  Lee,  B.S.T.J.,  35,  p.  23,  1956. 

*  M.  Tanenbaum  and  D.  E.  Thomas,  B.S.T.J.,  35,  p.  1,  1956. 

1209 


I 

1210      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

and  similar  problems  occurring,  for  example,  in  the  evaluation  of  con- 
trolled etching  and  of  evaporated  layers. 

PRINCIPLE^ 

A  half-silvered  mirror  is  brought  into  contact  with  a  reflecting  surface. 
If  this  combination  is  illuminated  with  monochromatic  light,  one  ob- 
serves interference  fringes.  Dark  lines  appear  where  the  distance  between 
mirror  and  surface  is  n  X  X/2,  where  n  is  an  integer.  Between  two  points 
on  adjacent  fringes  the  difference  in  this  distance  is  therefore  X/2.  Hence  j 
the  fringes  can  be  regarded  as  contour  lines  for  the  distance  between 
the  mirror  and  the  surface  under  consideration.  Since  the  mirror  is  op- 
tically flat,  one  can  deduce  the  profile  of  the  surface.  Equidistant  and 
parallel  fringes,  for  example,  prove  the  surface  to  be  flat.  By  taking  the 
profile  across  a  bevel  or  a  step,  one  is  able  to  measure  the  depth  of  one 
part  of  the  surface  with  respect  to  another  optically  flat  part  of  the  sur- 
face. The  reflectivity  of  the  crystal  surface  should  be  as  high  as  possible, 
and  that  of  the  mirror  should  be  of  the  same  order.  The  fringes  are  then 
produced  by  the  interference  of  several  wave  trains  which  make  the 
fringes  very  sharp,  and  one  can  measure  fractions  of  X/2.  With  the  equip- 
ment described  here,  one  is  able  to  interpolate  to  3^o  of  X/2  or  less. 

Since  small  linear  dimensions  are  involved,  this  principle  was  adapted 
for  use  under  a  microscope.  Hence,  it  is  possible  to  measure  small  linear 
dimensions  and  the  correlated  depth  simultaneously. 

The  measurement  of  small  steps,  or  steps  not  too  steep  in  an  other- 
wise flat  surface,  can  be  done  without  altering  the  sample.  For  measure- 
ment on  steep  and  high  steps  a  bevel  must  be  lapped  on  the  sample. 

For  the  measurement  of  p-type  or  n-type  surface  layers  on  semicon- 
ductors, it  is  essential  to  lap  a  bevel  on  the  original  surface.  The  p-n 
junction  is  thus  exposed  and  can  be  found  by  an  electrical  method.  After 
marking  its  position  within  the  bevel,  it  is  then  possible  to  measure  its 
depth  with  respect  to  the  original  surface  by  taking  the  profile  across 
the  bevel.  The  marking  has  to  be  such  that  it  will  be  visible  in  the  fringe 
pattern.  By  a  proper  adjustment  of  the  optical  flat,  a  fringe  pattern  can 
be  produced  in  which  the  profile  is  easily  interpreted  and  the  depth 
measurement  amounts  to  a  counting  of  fringes. 

PREPARATION   OF  THE   SAMPLES  1 

The  method  requires  the  use  of  samples  with  optically  flat  and  highly 
reflecting  surfaces  with  respect  to  which  a  depth  can  be  measured.  It  is 

'  S.  Tolansky,  Multiple-Beam  Interferometry  of  Surfaces  and  Films,  Oxford,  at 
at  the  Clarendon  Press,  1948. 


INTERFERENCE   MEASUREMENT    OF   THIN   SURFACE   LAYERS       1211 

also  advisable  to  use  plane-parallel  samples  to  facilitate  the  lapping  of  a 
l)Ovel  at  a  small  angle. 

For  lapping,  the  sample  is  waxed  with  its  back  side  to  the  face  of  a 
short  steel  cylinder.  The  face  is  cut  at  a  small  angle.  Angles  of  0.5°  or 
1.0°  are  practical.  The  cylinder  is  placed  in  a  jig,  in  svich  a  position  that 
approximately  half  of  the  sample  surface  projects  above  the  plane  of 
'the  jig  (Fig.  1).  A  short  grind  on  a  slightly  rough  glass  plate  using  a 
line  abrasive  with  water  gives  usable  bevels.  For  a  shiny  finish  just  the 
light  degree  of  roughness  of  the  glass  is  important.  The  use  of  a  lapping 
machine  with  a  vulcanized  fiber  plate  and  fine  abrasive  gives  a  better 
surface  finish,  but  the  ridge  is  not  as  sharp.  A  0.5°  bevel  could  be  obtained 
only  on  a  glass  plate. 


Fig.  1  —  Jig  for  lapping  a  bevel. 


MARKING   OF   p-TYPE    OR   n-TYPE   SURFACE   LAYERS 

In  a  sample  with  a  p-type  or  n-type  surface  layer  the  junction  is  ex- 
posed within  the  bevel.  The  next  step  is  to  detect  and  mark  the  junc- 
tion. 

The  sample  is  fixed  on  a  microscope  stage  which  allows  a  micrometer 
controlled  movement  in  two  directions  (Fig.  2  shows  a  Wilder  microm- 
eter cross  slide).  The  sample  is  oriented  in  such  a  way  that  the  ridge 
is  parallel  to  one  direction  of  movement  (y-direction).  One  or  two  lines 
of  aquadag  are  applied  to  the  surface  of  the  sample,  perpendicular  to 
the  ridge.  The  acjuadag  should  be  diluted  with  water  in  such  a  proportion 
as  to  achieve  a  thin  film  w^hich  is  non  reflecting. 

A  needle  is  fixed  to  the  base  of  the  stage  with  a  suitable  linkage  leav- 
ing a  vertical  degree  of  freedom.  The  needle  is  brought  into  contact  with 
the  surface  of  the  sample  outside  the  acjuadag.  Thus,  the  sample  can  be 
moved  under  the  needle  while  the  needle  maintains  contact.  In  a  suitable 
electrical  circuit,  the  needle  serves  as  detector  of  the  junction.  The  sam- 
ple is  moved  in  the  direction  perpendicular  to  the  ridge  (x-direction) 


1212      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


T: 


Fig.  2  —  Apparatus  for  locating  and  marking  p-n  junctions. 


1 


until  the  needle  rests  on  the  p-n  junction  as  seen  by  the  electrical  detec- 
tor. By  moving  the  sample  in  the  y-direction  the  same  needle  scrapes  a 
line  through  the  aquadag.  In  this  line,  the  reflecting  sample  surface  is 
bared  and  thus,  a  reflecting  line  is  produced  within  a  non-reflecting  sur- 
rounding and  can  be  seen  in  the  fringe  pattern. 

If  the  ridge  of  the  sample  is  exactly  lined  up  with  the  y-direction,  the 
needle  moves  along  the  junction  and  the  line  in  the  aquadag  indicates 
the  position  of  the  junction  exactly.  To  minimize  an  error  due  to  poor 
alignment,  it  is  advisable  to  locate  the  jimction  close  to  the  edge  of  the 
aquadag.  By  doing  this  on  two  different  sides  of  the  coating,  the  average 


INTERFERENCE    MEASUREMENT    OF   THIN    SURFACE    LAYERS       1213 

of  both  readings  compensates  the  error.  To  obtain,  however,  the  maxi- 
mum of  accuracy,  one  can  locate  the  junction  at  any  point.  (See  Fig.  3, 
Point  A).  IVIoving  the  sample  in  the  y-direction  scribes  a  line  through 
the  point  at  which  the  junction  was  found.  A  movement  in  the  x-direc- 
tion  with  the  needle  in  the  acjuadag  marks  a  point  B  on  this  line.  The 
distance  from  this  point  to  the  junction  can  be  obtained  from  the  read- 
ings on  the  micrometer.  Thus,  the  exact  point  at  which  the  junction  was 
located  can  be  reproduced  under  the  microscope. 


DETECTION    OF   THE   p-n   JUNCTION 

1.  Thermoelectric  Probe 

The  thermoelectric  voltage^  occurring  between  a  hot  and  a  cold  con- 
tact to  the  sample,  changes  sign  by  crossing  the  junction  with  the  hot 
contact.  The  advantage  of  this  probe  is  that  it  does  not  depend  upon 
the  rectification  properties  of  a  p-n  junction.  The  thermoelectric  probe 
is  most  suitable  for  germanium  since  lapping  across  a  p-n  junction  nor- 
mally produces  a  "short"  between  the  two  regions.  However,  it  is  likely 
to  give  a  p-reading  on  lightly  doped  n-material.  It  is  therefore  only 
usable  on  heavily  doped  layers,  where  the  nearly  compensated  zone  is 
very  small.  In  the  case  of  silicon,  the  junction  normally  maintains  recti- 
fying properties  after  lapping;  thus,  a  photocurrent  is  present.  This  cur- 
rent is  superimposed  upon  the  thermocurrent.  Therefore,  the  thermo- 
electric probe  is  only  usable  in  the  dark.  The  photoelectric  method  (see 
below)  is  more  convenient  for  these  cases. 

The  thermoelectric  probe  used,  consisted  of  a  commercial  phonograph 
needle,  which  had  a  good  hemispherical  point  and  was  surrounded  by  a 
piece  of  ceramic  tubing  carrying  a  heating  coil.  Between  needle  and  sam- 


Fig.  3  —  Schematic  view  of  a  scribed  p-n  junction. 


«  V.  A.  Johnson  and  K.  Lark-Horowitz,  Phys.  Rev.,  69,  p.  259,  1946. 


1214      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

pie  a  sensitive  galvanometer  is  connected.  It  is  unimportant  whether  the 
contact  is  made  to  the  p-type  or  to  the  n-type  side  of  the  sample.  The 
best  results  are  obtained  on  freshly  lapped  and  clean  surfaces.  It  is, 
therefore,  advisable  to  keep  the  sample  on  the  steel  cylinder  while  ap- 
plying the  thermoelectric  probe. 

When  applying  the  probe,  the  sample  is  moved  in  the  x-direction  to 
the  point  of  zero  deflection  on  the  galvanometer,  whereby  the  point  rests 
on  the  junction. 

2.  Point  Rectification  on  the  Surface 

This  test  is  also  usable  on  p-n  junctions  which  are  not  rectifying.  With 
one  fixed  ohmic  contact  to  the  sample,  the  point  rectification  of  the  mov- 
able needle  can  be  displayed  on  an  oscilloscope.  By  crossing  the  junction 
with  the  needle,  the  characteristic  changes  from  p-n  to  n-p.  Thus,  the 
needle  again  can  be  placed  on  the  junction. 

This  test  was  applied  on  lightly  doped  Ge-layers.  The  oscilloscope  pat- 
tern is  not  very  definite,  since  on  a  lapped  surface  the  point  rectification 
is  poor.  However,  with  some  experience  the  junction  can  be  located.  It 
is  advisable  to  repeat  the  measurements  several  times.  Boiling  the  sam- 
ple in  water  before  applying  the  probe  improves  the  surface. 

3.  Photoelectric  Probe 

This  method  requires  that  the  junction  exhibit  rectifying  properties. 
It  is  most  successfully  applied  to  silicon.  Between  the  needle  and  a  con- 
tact to  either  the  p-type  side  or  the  n-type  side  of  the  sample,  a  high 
impedance  voltmeter  is  connected.  While  the  sample  is  strongly  illumi- 
nated, it  is  moved  in  the  x-direction.  When  the  needle  crosses  the  junc- 


n    LAYER 
P   MATERIAL 


Fig.  4 — ^  Arrangement  for  Cu-plating  the  p-tj^pe  side  of  a  p-n  junction. 


INTERFERENCE   MEASUREMENT   OF   THIN   SURFACE   LAYERS       1215 

tion,  a  change  in  the  photoelectric  voltage  occurs.  For  more  careful 
measurements  one  might  plot  the  photovoltage  versus  the  x-coordinate 
in  units  of  the  micrometer.  Such  a  plot  allows  an  accurate  location  of 
the  junction  in  these  units.  If  the  micrometer  is  set  for  this  reading,  the 
needle  will  rest  on  the  p-n  junction. 


4.  Potential  Prohe 

This  is  another  method  for  locating  the  junction  where  the  junction 
is  at  least  slightly  rectifying.  One  needs  two  contacts  to  the  sample,  one 
on  the  p-type  side  and  the  other  on  the  n-type  side.  When  a  current  is 
passed  through  the  sample  in  the  reverse  direction,  the  voltage  between 
the  needle  and  either  contact  shows  a  discontinuity  at  the  junction.  The 
voltage  can  be  plotted  in  a  similar  way  as  described  for  the  previous 
method,  and  thus  the  needle  can  be  set  on  the  p-n  junction. 


m 


MONOCHROMATIC 
LIGHT   SOURCE 


HALF-SILVERED 
MICROSCOPE    SLIDE 

BEVELED    CRYSTAL 


Fig.  5  —  Diagrammatic  view  of  the  light  path  in  the  interferometer. 


1216      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

5.  Plating  the  p-sidc  of  the  p-ti  Junction* 

This  method  detects  and  marks  the  junction  in  one  process  without 
using  the  micrometer  arrangement,  ^^oltages  are  applied  in  such  a  way 
that  only  the  p-type  side  is  plated  (See  Fig.  4).  Since  the  plating  pro- 
jects up  and  is  not  optically  flat,  it  can  be  recognized  under  the  interfer- 
ometer. It  has  the  advantage  of  showing  the  junction  as  a  line.  The  dis- 
advantage is  that  it  is  only  convenient  on  rectifying  p-n  junctions 
(silicon),  with  n-type  layers  since  the  plating  ought  to  take  place  on  the 
body  side  of  the  p-n  junction. 

THE   INTERFEROMETER 

The  main  part  of  the  interferometer  is  a  microscope  with  illumination 
through  the  objective.  As  a  source  of  monochromatic  light,  a  sodium 
lamp  for  which  X  =  5.89  X  10~^  cm  is  most  convenient.  The  use  of  a 


Fig.  6  —  Interferometer  with  light  source. 


This  method  was  developed  by  N.  Holonyak. 


INTERFERENCE   MEASUREMENT    OF   THIN   SURFACE   LAYERS       1217 

shorter  X  would  increase  the  resokition.  However,  a  sodium  lamp  gives 
enough  light  that  one  can  easily  work  in  daylight. 

The  microscope  is  mounted  above  a  micrometer  cross-slide  of  the  same 
kind  as  used  in  the  procedure  for  marking  the  p-n  junctions.  The  stage 
carries  a  special  sample  support.  Fig.  5  gives  a  diagrammatic  view  of 
the  light  path  in  the  interferometer.  A  normal  microscope  is  used  with 
an  attachment  carrying  a  semi-transparent  mirror.  Fig.  6  shows  a  photo 
of  the  complete  arrangement,  and  Fig.  7  gives  the  details  of  the  sample 
support. 

The  prepared  sample  is  waxed  to  a  microscope  slide  and  covered  by 
a  half-silvered  mirror.  Both  are  placed  on  the  adjustable  lower  jaw  of 
the  sample  support.  The  lower  jaw  is  raised  so  that  the  upper  jaw  presses 
against  the  mirror.  In  this  position  it  is  fixed  by  tightening  the  screw 
in  the  back.  Thus  the  mirror  and  sample  are  in  contact,  and  the  fringes 
can  be  observed  through  the  microscope.  Three  screws  in  the  lower  jaw 
make  it  possible  to  change  the  relative  position  of  mirror  and  sample. 
Thus  the  fringe  pattern  can  be  adjusted  to  make  it  most  suitable  for  the 
particular  case. 

THE   MEASUREMENTS 

The  measurement  of  a  layer  thickness  was  chosen  to  demonstrate  the 
principle  of  evaluating  a  fringe  pattern.  (See  Fig.  8.)  The  first  illustration 


Fig.  7  —  Sample  support. 


1218      THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

AQUA  DAG 


"7^^ 


\ 


-ORIGINAL  SURFACE 


JUNCTION 


BEVELED  SURFACE 


0.10 


'^W 


m 


0.05 


0 
0.10 


V 

I 
\ 

\ 

— («- 

—  16-^^- 

cr 
m 

1- 

LU 

I- 

z 

LU 
U 

z 
X 


0.05 


0 
0.10 


1 

/ 

I 

i 

1 

I 

\ 

V 

1 

-  17- 

^- 

0.05 


V 

\ 

\ 

-e-- 

-16.5- 

^ 

10  20         30         40 

n 


Fig.  8  —  Evaluation  of  the  interference  fringe  pattern  on  a  scribed  'p-n  junction. 


INTERFERENCE    MEASUREMENT    OF    THIN    SURFACE   LAYERS        1219 


COPPER-PLATED    BODY 


ORIGINAL 
-SURFACE    OF 
GERMANIUM 


BEVELED 
SURFACE 


Fig.  9  —  Evaluation  of  the  interference  fringe  pattern  on  a  Cu-plated  p-n  junction. 


"" • '*i«^^Nfciiir 


Fig.  10  —  Evaluation  of  the  interference  fringe  pattern  of  a  shallow  step  in  a 
surface. 


1220      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

shows  a  sample  with  aquadag  coating  and  the  hnes  marking  the  p-n 
junction.  Under  this,  three  typical  fringe  patterns  obtained  on  this  sam- 
ple are  presented.  As  pointed  out  in  the  beginning,  one  can  regard  the 
fringe  pattern  as  contour  lines  for  the  distance  between  mirror  and  sam- 
ple. The  profile  along  any  arbitrary  straight  line  will  show  the  structure 
of  the  sample  surface.  The  profiles  along  the  marked  x-axes  are  shown 
to  the  right  in  each  case.  They  were  obtained  by  plotting  the  points  of 
intersection  between  the  n-th  fringe  and  the  x-axis  against  n.  The  origi- 
nal surface  and  the  bevel  (in  this  case  1°)  are  easily  recognized.  The 
dashed  line  is  an  extrapolation  of  the  original  surface.  The  vertical  line 
marks  the  position  of  the  p-n  junction.  The  layer  thickness  is  obtained 
as  the  difference  in  n  at  this  point  between  the  extrapolated  original 
surface  and  the  beveled  surface.  Note  that  the  beveled  surface  need  not 
necessarily  be  flat. 


.iii— i**-ir-*^ 


9 


^S^WSIHpwSS? 


jjpl^*.' 


Fig.  11  ^ —  Evaluation  of  the  interference  fringe  pattern  of  a  steep  and  high  step 
in  a  surface. 


INTERFERENCE    MEASUREMENT    OF   THIN    SURFACE    LAYERS        1221 

In  the  second  case  the  fringes  turn  liack.  With  a  sUghtly  different  set- 
ting of  the  mirror  the  fringes  could  be  ahiiost  parallel  "wdth  the  turning 
|)()int  outside  the  field  of  sight.  The  fringe  pattern  then  resembles  the 
lirst  case,  and  therefore  it  might  be  easily  misinterpreted. 

The  third  case  makes  the  plot  unnecessary.  The  x-axis  is  chosen  in 
such  a  way  that  it  coincides  with  a  fringe  in  the  original  surface.  Thus, 
in  the  profile  plot,  the  original  surface  is  horizontal.  Hence,  the  layer 
thickness  can  be  obtained  by  counting  the  number  of  intersecting  fringes 
between  original  surface  and  the  p-n  junction.  This  is,  therefore,  the  most 
convenient  setting  of  the  mirror. 

The  noted  number  gives  in  each  case  the  layer  thickness  in  "fringes." 
All  three  cases  are  in  essential  agreement.  The  layer  thickness  in  this 
:  case  is 

An  X  ^   =  (16.5  ±  0.5)  X  ~  X  10"'  cm 

=  (4.85  ±  0.15)  X  10"'  cm 

j       Fig.  9  gives  the  fringe  pattern  obtained  with  a  silicon  p-n  junction 

marked  by  the  plating  procedure. 

The  evaluation  of  steps  in  a  surface  is  shown  for  two  cases.  The  very 
'   shallow  step  in  Fig.  10  is  an  example  in  which  fractions  of  X.'2  are  to  be 

measured.  The  step  here  is 

^       X  ^  =  0.195  X  ^^  X  10"'  cm  =  5.75  X  10"'  cm 


a  +  6        2  2 

In  Fig.  11  the  step  is  so  high  and  steep  that  it  is  impossible  to  correlate 
the  fringes  crossing  the  step.  But  with  the  aid  of  the  bevel,  seen  in  the 
lower  part  of  Figure  11,  a  correlation  is  possible.  The  height  of  the  step 
along  the  drawn  line  is 


*t) 


(25  -  12)  X  ^  =  13  X  ^  X  10"'  cm  =  3.8  X  10"'  cm 

The  accuracy  of  the  method  depends  mainlj^  on  the  (juality  of  the  opti- 
cally flat  mirror  since  it  serves  as  a  plane  of  reference.  A  thin  mirror  is 
likely  to  be  slightly  bent  under  the  pressure  of  the  clamp.  Therefore,  it 
is  advisable  not  to  work  with  too  high  a  pressure.  For  the  measurement 
of  layer  thicknesses  the  (juality  of  the  original  surface  is  also  important. 
An  accuracy  of  5  per  cent  is  easily  obtained  using  half-sih'ered  micro- 
scope slides  for  the  mirror.  These  slides  are  essentially  flat  over  the  small 
region  covered  by  the  microscope. 


I 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not 
Published  in  This  Journal 

Albrecht,  E.  G.,^  Dietz,  A.  E./  Christoferson,  E.  W.,®  and  Slot- 

HOWER,,   J.    C.^ 

Co-ordinated  Protection  for  Open-Wire  Joint  Use  —  Minneapolis 
Tests,  A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  217-223,  May, 
1956. 

Anderson,  P.  W.^ 

Note  on  Ordering  and  Antiferromagnetism  in  Ferrites,  Phys.  Rev., 
102,  pp.  1008-1013,  May  15,  1956. 

Atalla,  M.  M.,  see  Preston,  K.,  Jr. 

Baker,  W.  O.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

Benson,  K.  E.,  see  Goss,  A.  J. 

Bennett,  W.  R.  ^ 

Techniques  for  Measuring  Noise.  Part  III,  Electronics,  29,  pp.  162- 
165,  May,  1956. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Electrical  Noise,  Part  IV.  Design  of  Low  Noise  Equipment,  Electronics, 
29,  pp.  154-157,  June,  1956. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Electrical  Noise.  Part  V.  Noise  Reduction  in  Communication  Systems, 
Electronics,  29,  pp.  148-151,  July,  1956. 

Bennett,  W.  R.^ 

Methods  of  Solving  Noise  Problems,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  609-638, 
May,  1956. 

*  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 

^  Northwestern  Bell  Telephone  Company, 

^  Northern  State  Power  Company,  Minneapolis. 

1223 


1224      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 


BOGERT,    B.    P.' 

The  VOBANC  -A  Two-to-One  Bandwidth  Reduction  System.  J. 
Acous.  Soc,  28,  pp.  399-404,  May,  1956. 

Bonneville,  S.,  see  Noyes,  J.  W. 
Boyd,  R.  C.^ 

Objectives  and  General  Description  of  the  Type-Pl  Carrier  System, 
A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  188-191,  May,  1956. 

BoYET,  H.,  see  Weisbaum,  S. 

BuLLARD,  W.  R.,*  and  Weppler,  H.  E.- 

Co-ordinated  Protection  for  Open-Wire  Joint  Use  —  Present  Trends, 
A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  215-216,  May,  1956. 

Chynoweth,  a.  G.^ 

Surface  Space  Charge  Layers  in  Barium  Titanate,  Phys.  Rev.,  102, 
pp.  705-714,  May  1,  1956. 

Chynoweth,  A.  G.^ 

Spontaneous  Polarization  of  Guanidine  Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexahy- 
drate  at  Low  Temperatures,  Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp.  1021-1023,  May  15, 
1956. 

Chynoweth,  A.  G.^  and  McKay,  K.  G.^ 

Photon  Emission  From  Avalanche  Breakdown  in  Silicon,  Phys.  Rev. 
102,  pp.  369-376,  Apr.  15,  1956. 

Dietz,  A.  E.,  see  Albrecht,  E.  G. 

Ditzenberger,  J.  A.,  see  Fuller,  C.  S. 

Dudley,  H.  W.^ 

Fundamentals  of  Speech  Synthesis,  J.  Audio  Engg.  Soc,  3,  pp.  170- 
185,  Oct.,  1955. 

Eberhart,  E.  K.,^  Hallenbeck,  F.  J.,^  and  Perkins,  E.  H.^ 

Circuit  and  Equipment  Descriptions  of  Type-Pl  Carrier  System, 
A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  195-204,  iMay,  1956. 

'■  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc.  ^ 

2  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Companj^  Inc. 
''  Ebasco  Services,  Inc.,  New  York. 


1 


TECHNICAL    PAPERS  1225 

Ellis,  H.  M./  Phelps,  J.  W.,'  Roach,  G.  L.,^  and  Treen,  R.  EJ 

Co-ordinated  Protection  for  Open-Wire  Joint  Use  —  Ontario  Tests, 
A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  223-236,  May,  1956. 

Fuller,  C.  S.,^  and  Ditzenberger,  J.  A.^ 

Diffusion  of  Donor  and  Acceptor  Elements  in  Silicon,  J.  Appl.  Phys., 
27,  pp.  544-553,  May,  1950. 

Fuller,  C.  S.^ 

Some  Analogies  Between  Semiconductors  and  Electrolyte  Solutions, 
Record  of  Chem.  Progress,  17,  pp.  75-93,  No.  2,  1956. 

Garrett,  C.  G.  B.,  see  Law,  J.  T. 

Gaston,  C.  M.i 

Stop  Playing  Hide-and-Seek  with  Engineering  Drawings,  Iron  Age 
Magazine,  177,  pp.  100-101,  May  17,  1956. 

Gaudet,  S.,  see  Noyes,  J.  W. 

Geller,  S.^ 

The  Crystal  Structure  of  Gadolinium  Orthoferrite,  GdFeOs ,  J.  Chem. 
Phys.,  24,  pp.  1236-1239,  June,  1956. 

GiLLEO,  M.  A.i 

Magnetic  Properties  of  a  Gadolinium  Orthoferrite,  GdFeOs  Crystal, 
J.  Chem.  Phys.,  24,  pp.  1239-1243,  Jmie,  1956. 

Giloth,  p.  K.i 

A  Simulator  for  Analysis  of  Sampled  Data  Control  Systems,  Proc. 
Natl.  Simulation  Conf.,  pp.  21.1-21.8,  Jan.,  1956. 

Goss,  A.  J.,1  Benson,  K.  E.,^  and  Pfann,  W.  G.  ^ 

Dislocations  at  Compositional  Fluctuations  in  Germanium-Silicon  Al- 
loys, Acta  Met.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  4,  pp.  332-333,  May,  1956. 

Hallenbeck,  F.  J.,  see  Eberhart,  E.  K. 

Harrower,  G.  A.^ 

Auger  Electron  Emission  in  the  Energy  Spectra  of  Secondary  Elec- 
trons from  Mo  and  W.,  Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp.  340-347,  Apr.  15,  1956. 

'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 

^  Hydro-Electric  Power  Commission  of  Ontario,  Toronto,  Ont.,  Canada. 

*  Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Canada,  Montreal,  Que.,  Canada. 


1226      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Harrower,  G.  A.^ 

Dependence  of  Electron  Reflection  on  Contamination  of  the  Reflect-  I 
ing  Surface,  Phys.  Kev.,  102,  pp.  1288-1289,  June  1,  1956. 

Howard,  J.  D.,  Jr.^ 

Application  of  the  Type-Pl  Carrier  System  to  Rural  Telephone  Lines, 
A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  205-21-1,  i\Iay,  1956. 

HuTSON,  A.  R} 

Effect  of  Water  Vapor  on  Germanium  Surface  Potential,  Phys.  Rev., 
102,  pp.  381-385,  Apr.  15,  1956. 

Katz,  D.^ 

A  Magnetic  Amplifier  Switching  Matrix,  A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Elec- 
tronics, 24,  pp.  236-241,  May,  1956. 

KowALCHiK,  M.,  see  Trumbore,  F.  A. 

Law,  J.  T.,1  and  Garrett,  C.  G.  B.^ 

Measurements  of  Surface  Electrical  Properties  of  Bombardment- 
Cleaned  Germanium,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  p.  656,  June,  1956. 

Lewis,  H.  W.^ 

Two-Fluid  Model  of  an  "Energy-Gap"  Superconductor,  Phys.  Rev., 
102,  pp.  1508-1511,  June  15,  1956. 

Logan,  R.  A.,  see  Thurmond,  C.  D. 

LOZIER,  J.  C.^ 

A  Study  State  Approach  to  the  Theory  of  Saturable  Servo  Systems, 
LR.E.  Trans.,  PGAC,  1,  pp.  19-39,  1956. 

LuNDBERG,  J.  L.,^  and  Zimm,  B.  H.^ 

Sorption  of  Vapors  by  High  Polymers,  J.  Phys.  Cheni.,  60,  pp.  425- 
428,  Apr.  16,  1956. 

Matthias,  B.  T.,^  and  Remeik.\,  J.  P.^ 

Ferroelectricity  in  Ammonium  Sulfate,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to  the 
Editor,  103,  p.  262,  July  1,  1956. 


^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 

2  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  Inc. 

*  General  Electrical  Research  Laboratories. 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  1227 

McKay,  K.  G.,  see  Chynoweth,  A.  G. 

I 

McLean,  D.  A.i 

ii  ' 

Tantalum  Solid  Electrolytic  Capacitors,  Proc.  Natl.  Conf.  Aeronauti- 
cal Electronics,  pp.  289-294,  Alay,  1956. 

McSkimin,  H.  J.i 

Propagation  of  Longitudinal  Waves  and  Shear  Waves  in  Cylindrical 
Rods  at  High  Frequencies,  J.  Acous.  See,  28,  pp.  484-494,  May,  1956. 

Notes,  J.  W.,^  Gaudet,  G.,^  and  Bonneville,  S.^ 

Development  of  Communications  in  Canada,  Elec.  Engg.,  75,  p.  539, 
June,  1956. 

O'Brien,  J.  A.i 

Cyclic  Decimal  Codes  for  Analoge  to  Digital  Converters,  A.LE.E. 
Commun.  and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  120-122,  May,  1956. 

Owens,  C.  D.i 

Stability  Characteristics  of  Molybdenum  Permalloy  Powder  Cores, 

Elec.  Engg.,  75,  pp.  252-256,  Mar.,  1956. 

Pearson,  G.  L.^ 

Electricity  from  the  Sun,  Proc.  World  Symp.  Appl.  Solar  Energy,  pp. 
281-288,  Book. 

Perkins,  E.  H.,  see  Eberhart,  E.  K. 

Pfann,  W.  G.i 

Zone  Melting:  A  Fresh  Outlook  for  Fractional  Crystallization,  Chem. 
&  Engg.  News,  34,  pp.  1440-1443,  Mar.  26,  1956. 

Pfann,  W.  G.,  see  Goss,  A.  J. 

Phelps,  J.  W.^ 

Protection  Problems  in  Telephone  Distribution  Systems,  Wire  and 
Wire  Products,  31,  pp.  555-596,  May,  1956. 

Phelps,  J.  W.,  see  Ellis,  H.  M. 

'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 

*  Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Canada,  Montreal,  Que.,  Canada. 


1228      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Pierce,  J.  R.^ 

Physical  Sources  of  Noise,  Pro.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  601-608,  May,  1956. 

Pomeroy,  a.  F.,^  and  Suarez,  E.  M.^ 

Determining  Attenuation  of  Waveguide  From  Electrical  Measure- 
ments on  Short  Samples,  I.R.E.  Trans.  MTT-4,  pp.  122-129,  Apr., 
1956. 

PONDY,  P.  R.i 

Dust-Lint  Control  in  Tube  Fabrication,  Electronics,  29,  pp.  246-250, 
June,  1956. 

Preston,  K.,  Jr.^  and  Atalla,  M.  M.^ 

Transient  Temperature  Rise  in  Semi-Infinite  Solid  Due  to  a  Uniform 
Disc  Source,  J.  Appl.  Mechanics,  23,  p.  313,  June,  1956. 

Prince,  E.^ 

Neutron  Diffraction  Observation  of  Heat  Treatment  in  Cobalt  Ferrite, 
Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp.  674-676,  May  1,  1956. 

Remeika,  J.  P.,  see  Matthias,  B.  T. 

Reiss,  H.^ 

p-n  Junction  Theory  by  the  Method  of  Functions,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27, 
pp.  530-537,  May,  1956. 

Rice,  S.  O.^ 

A  First  Look  at  Random  Noise,  A.I.E.E.  Commun.  and  Electronics, 
24,  pp.  128-131,  May,  1956. 

Smith,  D.  H.^ 

Power  Supplies  for  the  Type-Pl  Carrier  System,  A.I.E.E.  Commun. 
and  Electronics,  24,  pp.  191-195,  May,  1956. 

Suarez,  E.  M.,  see  Pomeroy,  A.  F. 

Theuerer,  H.  C.^ 

Purification  of  Germanium  Tetrachloride  by  Extraction  with  Hydro- 
chloric Acid  and  Chlorine,  J.  of  Metals,  8,  pp.  688-690,  May,  1956. 

'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 


N 


TECHNICAL    PAPERS  1229 

Thurmond,  C.  D./  and  Logan,  R.  A.^ 

The  Distribution  of  Copper  Between  Germanium  and  Ternary  Melts 
Saturated  with  Germanium,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  60,  pp.  591-594,  May, 
1956. 

Thurmond,  C.  D.,  see  Trumbore,  F.  A. 

Trumbore,  F.  A.,^  Thurmond,  C.  D.,^  and  Kowalchik,  M.^ 

The  Germanium- Oxygen  System,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  Letter  to  the 
Editor,  24,  p.  1112,  May,  1950. 

Weisbaum,  S.'  and  Boyet,  H.^ 

Broadbank  Non-Reciprocal  Phase  Shifts  -  Analysis  of  Two  Ferrite 
Slabs  in  Rectangular  Guide,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  519-524,  May, 
1956. 

Weppler,  H.  E.,  see  Billiard,  W.  R. 

WiNSLow,  F.  H.,1  Baker,  W.  0.,^  and  Yager,  W.  A.i 

The  Structure  and  Properties  of  Some  Pyrolyzed  Polymers,  Proc. 
Conf.  on  Carbon,  pp.  93-102,  1956. 

Wood,  E.  A.  Mrs.  i 

The  Question  of  a  Phase  Transition  in  Silicon,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  60, 
l)p.  508-509,  Apr.,  1956. 

Yager,  W.  A.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 
1  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 


Recent  Monographs  of  Bell  System  Technics 
Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal* 

Bashkow,  T.  R. 

DC  Graphical  Analysis  of  Junction  Transistor  Flip-Flops,  Monograph 
2615. 

Becker,  J.  A.,  see  Rose,  D.  J. 

BiTTRicH,  G.,  see  Compton,  K.  G. 

BoYET,  H.,  see  Weisbaum,  S. 
Brandes,  R.  G.,  see  Rose,  D.  J. 
Brattain,  W.  H.,  see  Garrett,  C.  G.  B. 
Compton,  K.  G.,  Ehrhardt,  R.  A.,  and  Bittrich,  G. 
Brass  Plating,  Monograph  2467. 

Egerton,  L.,  and  Koonce,  S.  E. 

Structure  and  Properties  of  Barium  Titanate  Ceramics,  Monograph 

2517. 

Ehrhardt,  R.  A.,  see  Compton,  K.  G. 
EiGLER,  J.  H.,  see  Sullivan,  M.  V. 
Francois,  E.  E.,  see  Law,  J.  T. 
Fuller,  C.  S.,  see  Reiss,  H. 
Garrett,  C.  G.  B.,  and  Brattain,  W.  H. 

Some  Experiments  on,  and  a  Theory  of.  Surface  Breakdown,  Mono- 
graph 2589. 

Hagelbarger,  D.  W. 
SEER,  A  Sequence  Extrapolating  Robot,  Monograph  2599. 


*  Copies  of  these  monographs  may  be  obtained  on  request  to  the  Publication 
Department,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  463  West  Street,  New  York  14, 
N.  Y.  The  numbers  of  the  monographs  should  be  given  in  all  requests. 

1230 


MONOGRAPHS  1231 

[aynes,  J.  R.,  and  Westphal,  W.  C. 

Radiation  Resulting  from  Recombination  of  Holes  and  Electrons  in 
Silicon,  Monograph  2622. 

[Ierring,  C,  and  Vogt,  E. 

Transport  and  Deformation-Potential  Theory  for  Many-Valley  Semi- 
conductors, Monograph  2596. 

Ierring,  C,  see  Vogel,  F.  L.,  Jr. 

Xleimack,  J.  J.,  see  Wahl,  A.  J. 

KooNCE,  S.  E.,  see  Egerton,  L. 

uAw,  J.  T.,  and  Francois,  E.  E. 
Adsorption  of  Gases  on  a  Silicon  Surface,  Monograph  2600. 

Lewis,  H.  W. 
Superconductivity  and  Electronic  Specific  Heat,  Monograph  2597. 

jOGan,  R.  a. 
Thermally  Induced  Acceptors  in  Germanium,  Monograph  2601. 

LuNDBERG,  J.  L.,  see  Zimm,  B.  H. 

May,  J.  E.,  Jr. 

Low-Loss   1000-Microsecond    Ultrasonic    Delay   Lines,   Monograph 

2584. 

Mendel,  J.  T. 
Microwave  Detector,  Monograph  2602. 

Paterson,  E.  G.  D. 
An  Over-all  Quality  Assurance  Plan,  Monograph  2630. 

PoMEROY,  A.  F.,  and  Suarez,  E.  M. 

Attenuation  of  Waveguide  from  Electrical  Measurements  on  Short 
Samples,  Monograph  2625. 

Press,  H.,  and  Tukey,  J.  W. 

Power  Spectral  Methods  of  Analysis  and  Application  in  Airplane  Dy- 
namics, Monograph  2606. 


1232      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

Read,  W.  T.,  Jr.,  see  Yogel,  F.  L.,  Jr. 

Reiss,  H.,  and  Fuller,  C.  S. 

Influence  of  Holes  and  Electrons  on  Solubility  of  Lithium  in  Silicon,  , 
jMonograph  2603. 

Rose,  D.  J.,  Becker,  J.  A.,  and  Brandes,  R.  G. 

On  the  Field  Emission  Electron  Microscope,  Monograph  2588. 

Suarez,  E.  M.,  see  Pomeroy,  A.  F. 

Sullivan,  M.  V.,  and  Eigler,  J.  H. 

Electrolytic  Stream  Etching  of  Germanium,  ]\'Ionograph  2595. 

Thomas,  D.  E. 

Tables  of  Phase  of  a  Semi-Infinite  Unit  Attenuation  Slope,  Mono- 
graph 2550. 

TuKEY,  J.  W.,  see  Press,  H. 

Van  Uitert,  L.  G. 

High -Resistivity  Nickel  Ferrites-Minor  Additions  of  Manganese  or 
Cobalt,  IMonograph  2594. 

VoGT,  E.,  see  Herring,  C. 

VoGEL,  F.  L.,  Jr.,  Herring,  C,  and  Read,  W.  T.,  Jr. 
Dislocations  in  Plastic  Deformation,  Monograph  2616. 

Wahl,  a.  J.,  and  Kleimack,  J.  J. 

Factors  Affecting  Reliability  of  Alloy  Junction  Transistors,  Monograph 
2604. 

Westphal,  W.  C.,  see  Haynes,  J.  R. 

Weisbaum,  S.,  and  Boyet,  H. 

A  Double-Slab  Ferrite  Field  Displacement  Isolator  at  11  kmc,  Mono- 
grapli  2605. 

ZiMM,  B.  H.,  and  Lundberg,  J.  L. 

Sorption  of  Vapors  by  High  Polymers,  Monograph  2573. 


Contributors  to  This  Issue 

W.  L.  Bond,  B.S.  1927  and  M.S.  1928,  Washington  State  College; 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1928-.  Mr.  Bond  has  conducted  investi- 
gations in  the  mineral  field  including  studies  of  the  piezoelectric  effect 
in  minerals  and  similar  studies  of  synthetic  crystals.  He  has  designed 
optical,  X-ray,  and  mechanical  tools  and  instruments  for  the  orientation, 
cutting  and  processing  of  crystals.  Mr.  Bond  also  served  as  consultant 
on  quartz  crystals  with  the  War  Production  Board.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  American  Physical  Society,  and  of  the  American  Crystallographic 
Association. 

Walter  H.  Brattain,  B.S.,  Whitman  College,  1924;  M.A.,  Univer- 
sity of  Oregon,  1926;  Ph.D.,  University  of  Minnesota,  1929.  Honorary 
D.Sc.  Portland  University,  1952,  Whitman  College  and  Union  College, 
1955.  Radio  section,  Bureau  of  Standards,  1928-29.  Bell  Telephone 
I  Laboratories,  1929-.  Co-inventor  with  Dr.  John  Bardeen  of  point  contact 
I  transistor.  Primary  activity  at  Laboratories  in  semi-conductors.  Re- 
search in  field  of  thermionics,  particularly  electronic  emission  from  hot 
surfaces.  Frequency  standards,  magnetometers  and  infra-red  phenom- 
ena. Studied  magnetic  detection  of  submarines  for  National  Defense 
Research  Committee  at  Columbia  University,  1942-43.  Visiting  lecturer 
at  Harvard  University,  1952-53.  Author  of  numerous  technical  articles. 
Recipient  of  John  Scott  Medal,  1955,  and  Stuart  Ballantine  Medal  of 
Franklin  Institute,  1952.  Fellow  of  American  Physical  Society,  American 
Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences  and  American  Association  for  the  Ad- 
vancement of  Science.  Member  of  Franklin  Institute,  Phi  Beta  Kappa 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

C.  C.  Cole,  B.S.  in  E.E.,  State  College  of  Washington,  1923;  U.  S. 
Navy  1917-1919;  Western  Electric  Company  1923-.  His  first  assign- 
ment was  in  manufacturing  development  on  paper  and  mica  capacitors. 
Other  assignments  include  manufacturing  development  on  loading  coils, 
quality  control,  and  inspection  development  laboratory.  During  World 
War  II  he  handled  the  design  and  construction  of  testing  facilities  for 
various  defense  projects.  Since  World  War  II  he  has  been  engaged  in 

1233 


1234      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956  i 

•I 
:t 

inspection  methods  development  and  in  the  development  and  design  of 
testing  facilities  for  telephone  apparatus  and  cable.  Member  of  Sigma  i 
Tau  and  A.I.E.E. 

Arthur  B.  Crawford,  B.S.E.E.  1928,  Ohio  State  University;  Bell] 
Telephone  Laboratories,  1928-.  Mr.  Crawford  has  been  engaged  in  radio 
research  since  he  joined  the  Laboratories.  He  has  worked  on  ultra  short 
wave  apparatus,  measuring  techniques  and  propagation;  microwave 
apparatus,  measuring  techniques  and  radar,  and  microwave  propagation 
studies  and  microwave  antenna  research.  He  is  author  or  co-author  of 
articles  which  appeared  in  The  Bell  System  Technical  Journal,  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  I.R.E.,  Nature,  and  the  Bulletin  of  the  American  Me- 
teorological Society.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  the  LR.E.  and  a  member  of  Sigma 
Xi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  and  Pi  Mu  Epsilon. 

Harald  T.  Friis,  E.E.,  1916,  D.Sc,  1938,  Royal  Technical  College' 
(Copenhagen);  Engineering  Department  of  the  Western  Electric  Com-i 
pany,   1919-1924.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1925-.  Dr.  Friis,  Di-i| 
rector  of  Research  in  High  Frequency  and  Electronics,  has  made  im-i 
portant    contributions    on    ship-to-shore    radio    reception,    short-wave  i 
studies,  radio  transmission  (including  methods  of  measuring  signals  and( 
noise),  a  receiving  system  for  reducing  selective  fading  and  noise  inter-' 
ference,   microwave   receivers   and   measuring   equipment,   and   radar, 
equipment.  He  has  published  numerous  technical  papers  and  is  co-author 
of  a  book  on  the  theory  and  practice  of  antennas.  The  LR.E.'s  Morris 
Liebmann  Memorial  Prize,  1939,  and  Medal  of  Honor,  1954.  Valdemar 
Poulson  Gold  Medal  by  Danish  Academy  of  Technical  Sciences,  1954. 
Danish  "Knight  of  the  Order  of  Dannebrog,"  1954.  Fellow  of  LR.E. 
and  A.I.E.E.  Member  of  American  Association  for  the  Advancement  of 
Science,  Danish  Engineering  Society  and  Danish  Academy  of  Technical  > 
Sciences.  Served  on  Panel  for  Basic  Research  of  Research  and  Develop- ' 
ment  Board,  1947-49,  and  Scientific  Advisory  Board  of  Army  Air  Force, 
1946-47. 

C.  G.  B.  Garrett,  B.A.,  Cambridge  University  (Trinity  College), 
1946;  M.A.,  Cambridge,  1950;  Ph.D.,  Cambridge,  1950.  Instructor  in 
Physics,  Harvard  University,  1950-52.  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
1952-.  Before  coming  to  the  Laboratories,  Dr.  Garrett's  principal  re- 
search was  in  the  field  of  low-temperature  physics.  At  the  Laboratories 
he  has  been  engaged  in  research  and  exploratory  development  on  semi- 
conductor surfaces  and,  for  the  past  year,  has  supervised  a  group  work- 
ing in  this  field.  He  is  the  author  of  "Magnetic  Cooling"  (Harvard 


CONTRIBUTOES   TO   THIS   ISSUE  1235 

University  Press,  1954).  Senior  Scholar  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge, 
1945.  Twisden  Student  of  Trinity  College,  1949.  Fellow  of  Physical 
Society  (London).  Member  of  American  Physical  Society. 

L.  D.  Hansen,  B.S.,  Montana  State  College,  1924;  Western  Electric 
Company,  1924-.  Mr.  Hansen  joined  the  Equipment  Engineering  Or- 
'ganization  at  the  Hawthorne  Plant  of  The  Western  Electric  Company 
in  Chicago  in  1924  where  he  was  engaged  in  preparation  of  telephone 
central  office  specifications.  He  transferred  to  the  Kearny,  N.  J.,  Plant 
in  1928  where  he  was  promoted  to  section  chief  in  1929.  He  transferred 
to  the  Engineer  of  Manufacture  Organization  in  1930  and  worked  on 
carrier  and  repeater  test  development  and  methods  until  1941  when  he 
was  promoted  to  Department  Chief  in  charge  of  wired  switching  ap- 
paratus and  equipment  test  set  development  and  methods. 

William  C.  Jakes,  Jr.,  B.S.E.E.,  Northwestern  University,  1944; 
M.S.,  Northwestern,  1947;  Ph.D.,  Northwestern,  1948.  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  1949-.  Dr.  Jakes  is  engaged  in  microwave  antenna  and 
propagation  studies  and  holds  a  patent  in  microwave  antennas.  He  is 
the  author  of  chapter  in  antenna  engineering  handbook  (McGraw-Hill). 
Member  of  Sigma  Xi,  Pi  Mu  Epsilon,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  LR.E.  and  Phi 
Delta  Theta. 

Amos  E.  Joel,  Jr.,  B.S.,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology,  1940; 
M.S.,  M.I.T.,  1942;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1940-.  Mr.  Joel  is 
Switching  Systems  Development  Engineer  responsible  for  coordinating 
the  exploratory  development  of  a  trial  electronic  switching  system. 
Prior  to  his  present  position  he  worked  on  relay  engineering,  crossbar 
test  laboratory,  fundamental  development  studies,  circuits  for  relay  com- 
puters, preparation  of  a  text  and  teaching  switching  design,  designing 
j  AMA  computer  circuits  and  making  fundamental  engineering  studies 
on  new  switching  systems.  He  holds  some  forty  patents.  Member  of 
A.I.E.E.,  LR.E.,  Sigma  Xi  and  Association  for  Computing  Machinery. 

Archie  P.  King,  B.S.,  California  Listitute  of  Technology,  1927.  After 
three  years  with  the  Seismological  Laboratory  of  the  Carnegie  Institu- 
tion of  Washington,  Mr.  King  joined  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in 
1930.  Since  then  he  has  been  engaged  in  ultra-high-frequency  radio  re- 
search at  the  Holmdel  Laboratory,  particularly  with  waveguides.  For  the 
I  last  ten  years  Mr.  King  has  concentrated  his  efforts  on  waveguide  trans- 
mission and  waveguide  transducers  and  components  for  low-loss  circular 


1236      THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    SEPTEMBER    1956 

electric  wave  transmission.  He  holds  at  least  a  score  of  patents  in  the 
waveguide  field.  Mr.  King  was  cited  by  the  Navy  for  his  World  War  II 
radar  contributions.  He  is  a  Senior  Member  of  the  I.R.E.  and  is  a  Mem- 
ber of  the  American  Physical  Society. 

D.  T.  RoBB,  B.S.,  University  of  Chicago,  1927;  Western  Electric 
Company,  1927-.  Mr.  Robb  has  been  concerned  with  measurement 
and  testing  problems  throughout  his  career.  In  the  electrical  laboratory  ■ 
at  Hawthorne  Works,  Chicago,  he  specialized  in  ac  standardization. 
Later  he  worked  on  the  development  of  shop  test  methods  and  test  sets.  ' 
In  1944  he  transferred  to  take  charge  of  radar  test  engineering  at  the 
Eleventh  Avenue  Plant  of  Western  Electric  in  New  York  City.  In  1946 
he  supervised  the  engineering  of  the  standards  laboratory  at  Chatham 
Road  Plant  in  Winston  Salem,  N.  C.  Currently,  he  has  charge  of  trans- 
mission test  set  development  and  test  set  design  at  Kearny  Works,  N.  J. 

Harry  R.  Shillington,  B.S.  in  E.E.  Iowa  State  College,  1937;  Long 
Lines  Department  of  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company, 
1928-1932;  Western  Electric  Company,  1937-.  Mr.  Shillington's  first 
assignment  was  that  of  product  engineering  on  panel  dial  equipment. 
During  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  War  he  was  engaged  in  test  engi- 
neering on  various  defense  projects.  He  is  presently  concerned  with  the 
development  of  special  test  facilities  for  telephone  apparatus.  Member  of 
Eta  Kappa  Nu  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Friedolf  M.  Smits,  Dipl.Phys.  and  Dr.Rer.Nat.,  University  of  Frei- 
burg, Germany,  1950;  research  assistant,  Physikalisches  Institut,  Uni- 
versity of  Freiburg,  1950-54;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1954-.  As  a 
member  of  the  Solid  State  Electronics  Research  Department  of  the : 
Laboratories,  Dr.  Smits  has  been  concerned  with  diffusion  studies  of 
germanium  and  silicon  for  semiconductor  device  applications.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  American  Physical  Society  and  the  German  Physical 
Society. 

Frank  H.  Tendick,  Jr.,  B.S.E.E.,  1951,  University  of  Michigan; 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1951-.  Mr.  Tendick  was  first  engaged  ini 
work  pertaining  to  the  synthesis  of  networks  employed  in  the  L3  coaxial  i 
cable  system.  Later  he  engaged  in  the  design  of  transistor  networks  for 
digital  computers.  More  recently,  he  has  been  associated  with  exploratory 
studies  of  submarine  cable  systems.  He  is  a  member  of  the  I.R.E.  Mr. 


CONTRIBUTORS   TO   THIS   ISSUE  1237 

Tendick  also  belongs  to  four  honor  societies,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Eta  Kappa 
iNu,  Sigma  Xi  and  Phi  Kappa  Phi. 

Leishman  R.  Wrathall,  B.S.,  1927,  University  of  Utah.  Mr.  Wrathall 
did  another  year  of  graduate  work  at  the  University  of  Utah  and  joined 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  in  1929.  For  many  years  he  was  primarily 
concerned  with  studies  of  the  characteristics  of  non-linear  coils  and  ca- 
pacitors. During  World  War  II  non-linear  coils  were  used  extensively  in 
radar  systems,  and  his  work  in  this  field  was  intensified.  Later  he  was 
occupied  with  general  circuit  research.  He  is  now  engaged  in  studies  of 
conductor  problems,  particularly  digital  repeaters,  as  a  member  of  the 
Transmission  Research  Department  at  Murray  Hill. 


! 


HE      BELL      SY  S^  E  M 


/ 


ecnnicm  louma^ 

OTED    TO    THE    SC  I  E  N  T  I  FIC^^^    AND     ENGINEERING 
•ECTS    OF    ELECTRICAL    COMMUNICATION 


UME  XXXV  NOVEMBER    1956  NUMBER  6 


Ft 

Nobel  Prize  in  Physics  Awarded  to  Transistor  Inventors  i 

Theory  of  the  Swept  Intrinsic  Structure  w.  t.  bead,  jbT.  1239 

A  Medium  Power  Traveling- Wave  Tube  for  6,000-Mc  Radio  Relay 

J.  p.  LAico,  H.  L.  Mcdowell  and  c.  r.  moster  1285 

Helix  Waveguide  s.  p.  morgan  and  j.  a.  young  1347 

Wafer-Type  Millimeter  Wave  Rectifiers  w.  m.  sharpless  1385 

Frequency  Conversion  by  Means  of  a  Nonlinear  Admittance 

C.  F.  EDWARDS    1403 

Minimization  of  Boolean  Functions  e.  j.  mccluskey,  jr.  1417 

Detection  of  Group  Invariance  or  Total  Symmetry  of  a  Boolean 
Function  e.  j.  mccluskey,  jr.  1445 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal  1454 

Recent  Bell  System  Monographs  1461 

Contributors  to  This  Issue  1465 


COPYRIGHT  1956   AMERICAN  TELEPHONE   AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL 


ADVISORY    BOARD 

A.  B,  GOETZE,  President,  Western  Electric  Company 

M.  J.  KELLY,  President,  BeU  Telephone  Laboratories 

E.  J.  McNEELY,  Execviivc  Vice  President,  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 

EDITORIAL    COMMITTEE 

B.  McMillan,  Chairman 

S,  E.  BRILLHART  E.    I.GREEN 

A.  J.   BUSCH  R.  K.  HONAMAN 

L.  R.  COOK  H.   R.  HUNTLEY 

A.  C.   DICKIE80N  F.  R.   LACK 

R.   L.   DIETZOLD  J.  R.   PIERCE 

K.  E.  GOULD  G.  N.  THAYER 

EDITORIAL    STAFF 

J.  D.  TEBO,  Editor 

R.  L.  SHEPHERD,  Production  Editor 


THE  BELL  SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a  year 
by  the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company,  195  Broadway,  New  York 
7,  N.  Y.  F.  R.  Kappel,  President;  S.  Whitney  Landon,  Secretary;  John  J.  Scan- 
Ion,  Treasurer.  Subscriptions  are  accepted  at  $3.00  per  year.  Single  copies  are 
75  cents  each.  The  foreign  postage  is  65  cents  per  year  or  11  cents  per  copy.  Printed 
in  U.  S.  A. 


Nobel  Prize  in  Physics  Awarded 
to  Transistor  Inventors 

The  Swedish  Royal  Academy  of  Sciences  announced  on  November  1 
that  a  Nobel  Prize  in  Physics,  most  highly  coveted  award  in  the  world 
of  physics,  had  been  awarded  jointly  to  Dr.  Walter  H.  Brattain  of  the 
Laboratories  Physical  Research  Department,  with  Dr.  John  Bardeen 
and  Dr.  William  Shockley,  both  former  members  of  the  Laboratories. 
The  prize  was  awarded  for  ''investigations  on  semiconductors  and  the 
discovery  of  the  transistor  effect." 

This  marks  the  second  time  that  Avork  done  at  the  Laboratories  has 
been  recognized  by  a  Nobel  Prize.  The  previous  recipient  Avas  Dr.  C.  J. 
Davisson  who  shared  in  the  1937  prize  for  his  discovery  of  electron  dif- 
fraction as  a  result  of  experiments  carried  out  with  Dr.  L.  H,  Germer, 
also  of  the  Laboratories. 

Each  of  the  three  Avinners  of  this  year's  prize  Avill  receive  a  gold  medal, 
a  diploma  and  a  share  of  the  $38,633  prize  money.  When  he  Avas  notified 
that  he  Avas  one  of  these  Avinners,  Dr.  Brattain  said,  "I  certainly  ap- 
preciate the  honor.  It  is  a  great  satisfaction  to  have  done  something 
in  life  and  to  haA^e  been  recognized  for  it  in  this  Avay.  HoAvever,  much  of 
my  good  fortune  comes  from  being  in  the  right  place,  at  the  right  time, 
and  having  the  right  sort  of  people  to  Avork  Avith." 

The  principle  of  transistor  action  Avas  discovered  as  a  result  of  funda- 
mental research  directed  toAA^ard  gaining  a  better  understanding  of  the 
surface  properties  of  semiconductors.  Following  World  War  II,  intensiA^e 
programs  on  the  properties  of  germanium  and  silicon  AA'ere  undertaken 
at  the  Laboratories  under  the  direction  of  William  Shockley  and  S.  0. 
Morgan.  One  group  in  this  program  engaged  in  a  study  of  the  body 
properties  of  semi-conductors,  and  another  on  the  surface  properties. 
Dr.  John  Bardeen  served  as  theoretical  physicist  and  R.  B.  Gibney  as 
chemist  for  both  groups.  These  iuA'estigations,  Avhich  resulted  in  the  in- 
\'ention  of  the  transistor,  made  extensiA^e  use  of  knoAvledge  and  tech- 
niques developed  by  scientists  here  and  elscAvhere,  particularly  by  mem- 
bers of  the  Laboratories — R.  S.  Ohl,  J.  H.  Scaff  and  H.  C.  Theuerer. 

Since  the  transistor  Avas  announced,  little  more  than  eight  years  ago, 
it  has  become  increasingly  important  in  Avhat  has  been  called  the  "neAv 


11 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    195G 


The  Nobel  Prize  winners  in  an  historic  photograph  taken  in  1948  when  the 

annonncement  of  the  invention  of  the  transistor  icas  made.  Left  to  right, 

John  Bardccn,  William  Shockley  and  Walter  H.  Brattain. 


electronics  age."  As  new  transistors  and  related  semiconductor  devices 
are  developed  and  improved,  the  possible  fields  of  application  for  these 
devices  increase  to  such  an  extent  that  they  may  truly  be  said  to  have 
"revolutionized  the  electronics  art." 

The  invention  of  the  transistor,  basis  for  the  Nobel  Prize  award,' 
represents  an  outstanding  example  of  the  combination  of  research  team- 
work and  individual  achievement  in  the  Bell  System  that  has  meant  so; 
much  to  the  rapid  development  of  modern  communications  systems. 

Dr.  Brattain  received  a  B.S.  degree  from  Whitman  College  in  1924,  an 
M.A.  degree  from  the  University  of  Oregon  in  1926,  and  a  Ph.D.  degree 
from  the  University  of  Minnesota  in  1928.  He  joined  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories  in  1929,  and  his  early  work  was  in  the  field  of  thermionics, 
particularly  the  study  of  electron  emission  from  hot  surfaces.  He  also 
studied  frequency  standards,  magnetometers  and  infra-red  phenomena. 


NOBEL    PRIZE    IN    PHYSICS  111 

Subsequently,  Mr.  Brattain  engaged  in  the  study  of  electrical  con- 
ductivity and  rectification  phenomena  in  semiconductors.  During  World 
War  II,  he  was  associated  with  the  National  Defense  Research  Com- 
mittee at  Columbia  Fni\'ersity  ^\■here  he  worked  on  magnetic  detection 
of  submarines. 

Mr.  Brattain  has  received  honorary  Doctor  of  Science  degrees  from 
Whitman  College,  Union  College  and  Portland  University.  His  many 
awards  include  the  John  Scott  Medal  and  the  Stuart  Ballantine  INIedal, 
both  of  which  he  received  jointl^y  with  John  Bardeen.  Mr.  Brattain  is  a 
Fellow  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences. 

Dr.  Bardeen  received  the  B.S.  in  E.E.  and  M.S.  in  E.E.  degrees 
from  the  University  of  Wisconsin  in  1928  and  1929  respectively,  and  his 
Ph.D.  degree  in  Mathematics  and  Physics  from  Princeton  University 
in  1930.  After  serving  as  an  Assistant  Professor  of  Physics  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Minnesota  from  1938  to  1941,  he  worked  with  the  Naval  Ord- 
nance Laboratory  as  a  physicist  during  World  War  II.  In  1945  he  joined 
the  Laboratories  as  a  research  physicist,  and  was  primarily  concerned 


Clinton  J .  JJuvisson  Previous  Laburatories  Nobel  Laureate 

In  December,  J  937,  Di'.  Clinton  J.  Davisson  of  the  Laboratories  was 
awarded  the  Xobel  Prize  in  Piiysics  for  his  discovery  of  electron  tliffrac- 
tion  and  the  wave  properties  of  electrons. 

He  shared  the  jDrize  with  Professor  G.  P.  Thompson  of  London,  who 
worked  in  the  same  field,  though  there  was  little  in  common  between  their 
techniques.  Dr.  Davisson's  work  on  electron  diffraction  started  as  an  at- 
tempt to  understand  the  characteristics  of  secondary  emission  in  multi- 
grid  electron  tubes.  In  this  work  he  discovered  patterns  of  emission  from 
the  surface  of  single  crystals  of  nickel.  By  studying  these  patterns,  Dr. 
Davisson,  with  Dr.  L.  H.  Germer  and  their  associates,  proved  that  reflected 
electrons  have  the  properties  of  trains  of  waves. 

Dr.  Davisson  was  awarded  the  B.S.  degree  in  physics  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago  in  1908  and  the  Ph.D.  degree  from  Princeton  in  191L 
From  September,  1911,  until  June,  1917,  he  was  an  instructor  m  physics 
at  the  Carnegie  Institute  of  Technology,  coming  to  the  Laboratories  on  a 
wartime  leave  of  absence.  He  found  the  climate  of  the  Laboratories 
conducive  to  basic  research,  however,  and  remained  until  his  retirement 
in  1946.  Besides  his  work  on  electron  diffraction.  Dr.  Davisson  did  much 
significant  work  in  a  varietj^  of  fields,  particularly  electron  optics,  mag- 
netrons, and  crystal  physics. 


iv  THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

with  theoretical  problems  in  solid  state  physics,  including  studies  of 
semiconductor  materials. 

Mr.  Bardeen,  whose  honors  include  an  honorary  Doctor  of  Science 
degree  from  Union  College,  the  Stuart  Ballantine  Medal,  the  John 
Scott  Medal,  and  the  Buckley  Prize,  is  a  member  of  the  National  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences.  He  joined  the  University  of  Ilhnois  in  1951. 

Dr.  Shockley  received  a  B.Sc.  degree  from  the  California  Institute  of 
Technology  in  1932,  and  a  Ph.D.  degree  from  the  Massachusetts  In- 
stitute of  Technology  in  1936.  He  joined  the  staff  of  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories  in  1936.  In  addition  to  his  many  contributions  to  solid 
state  physics  and  semiconductors,  Mr.  Shockley  has  worked  on  electron 
tube  and  electron  multiplier  design,  studies  of  various  physical  phe- 
nomena in  alloys,  radar  development  and  magnetism. 

His  many  awards  include  an  honorary  degree  from  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania,  the  Morris  Liebmann  Memorial  Prize,  the  Buckley  Prize, 
the  Comstock  Prize  and  membership  in  the  National  Academy  of 
Sciences.  Dr.  Shockley  left  the  Laboratories  to  form  the  Shockley  Semi- 
conductor Laboratory  at  Beckman  Instruments,  Inc.,  in  1955. 


THE   BELL  SYSTEM 

TECHNICAL  JOURNAL 


VOLUME  XXXV  NOVEMBER   1956  number  6 


Copyright  1966,  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 


Theory  of  the  Swept  Intrinsic   Structure 

By.  W.  T.  READ,  JR. 

(Manuscript  received  March  4,  1956) 

The  electric  field  and  the  hole  and  electron  concentrations  are  found  for 
reverse  biased  junctions  in  which  one  side  is  either  intrinsic  (!)  or  so  weakly 
doped  that  the  space  charge  of  the  carriers  cannot  he  neglected.  The  analysis 
takes  account  of  spare  charge,  drift,  diffusion  and  non  linear  recombination. 
A  number  of  figures  illustrate  the  penetration  of  the  electric  fii eld  into  a  PIN 
structure  with  increasing  bias  for  various  lengths  of  the  I  region.  For  the 
junction  between  a  highly  doped  and  a  weakly  doped  region,  the  reverse  cur- 
rent increases  as  the  square  root  of  the  voltage  at  high  voltages;  and  the  space 
charge  in  the  weakly  doped  region  approaches  a  constant  value  that  depends 
on  the  fixed  charge  and  the  intrinsic  carrier  concentration. 

The  mathematics  is  greatly  simplified  by  expressing  the  equations  in 
terms  of  the  electric  field  and  the  sum  of  the  hole  and  electron  densities. 

i  I.    INTRODUCTION 

Applications  have  been  suggested  for  semiconductor  structures  having 
j  both  extrinsic  and  intrinsic  regions.  Examples  are  the  "swept  intrinsic" 

structure,  in  which  a  region  of  high  resistivity  is  set  up  by  an  electric 
[  field  that  sweeps  out  the  mobile  carriers,  and  the  analogue  transistors, 
!  where  the  intrinsic  region  is  analogous  to  the  vacuum  in  a  vacuum  tube. 

However,  the  junction  between  an  intrinsic  region  and  an  N  or  P  region 

1239 


1240       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

is  considerably  less  well  understood  than  the  simple  NP  junction.  Most 
of  the  assumptions  that  make  the  NP  case  relatively  simple  to  deal  with 
do  not  apply  to  junctions  where  one  side  is  intrinsic.  Specifically,  the 
space  charge  is  that  of  the  mobile  carriers;  thus  the  flow  and  electrostatic 
problems  cannot  be  separated  as  they  can  in  PN  junction  under  reverse 
bias.  The  following  sections  analyze  the  iV-intrinsic  -  P  structure  under 
reverse  bias. 

For  a  given  material  with  fairly  highly  doped  extrinsic  regions,  the 
problem  is  defined  by  the  length  of  the  intrinsic  region  and  the  applied 
voltage.  Taking  the  intrinsic  region  infinitely  long  gives  the  solution  for 
a  simple  A^-intrinsic  or  P-intrinsic  structure.  The  results  are  given  and 
plotted  in  terms  of  the  electric  field  distribution.  From  this  the  potential, 
space  charge  and  carrier  concentrations  can  be  found;  so  also  can  the 
current-voltage  curve.  The  final  section  considers  the  case  where  the 
middle  layer  contains  some  fixed  charge  but  where  the  carrier  charge 
cannot  be  neglected. 

Qualitative  Discussion  of  an  N-intrinsic-P  Structure 

Consider  an  A^-intrinsic-P  structure  where  the  intrinsic,  or  /,  region  is 
considerably  wider  than  the  zero  bias,  or  built-in,  space  charge  regions 
at  the  junctions,  so  that  there  is  normal  intrinsic  material  between  the 
junctions.  The  field  distribution  at  zero  bias  can  be  found  exactly  from 
the  zero-current  analysis  of  Prim.'  Throughout  the  intrinsic  region,  hole 
and  electron  pairs  are  always  being  thermally  generated  and  recombining 
at  a  rate  determined  by  the  density  and  properties  of  the  traps,  or  recom- 
bination centers.  Under  zero  bias  the  rates  of  generation  and  recombina- 
tion are  everywhere  equal.  Suppose  now  a  reverse  bias  is  applied  causing 
holes  to  flow  to  the  right  and  electrons  to  the  left.  Some  of  the  carriers 
generated  in  the  intrinsic  region  will  be  swept  out  before  recombining.  | 
This  depletes  the  carrier  concentration  in  the  intrinsic  region  and  hence 
raises  the  resistivity.  It  also  produces  a  space  charge  extending  into  the 
intrinsic  layer.  The  electrons  are  displaced  to  the  left  and  the  holes,  to  ■ 
the  right.  Thus  the  space  charge  opposes  the  penetration  of  the  field 
into  the  intrinsic  region;  that  is,  the  negative  charge  of  the  electrons  on  i 
the  left  and  positive  charge  of  the  holes  on  the  right  gives  a  field 
distribution  with  a  minimum  somewhere  in  the  interior  of  the  intrinsic 
region  and  maxima  at  the  NI  and  IP  junctions.  If  holes  and  electrons 
had  equal  mobilities,  the  field  distribution  would  be  symmetrical  with  a 
minimum  in  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region.  Likewise,  the  total  carrier 

1  R.  C.  Prim,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  32,  p.  665,  May,  1953. 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1241 

[concentration  (holes  plus  electrons)  would  be  symmetrical  with  a  maxi- 
[mum  in  the  center.  As  the  applied  bias  is  increased  the  hole  and  electron 
distributions  are  further  displaced  relative  to  one  another  and  the  space 
charge  increases.  Finally,  at  high  enough  biases,  so  many  of  the  carriers 
are  swept  out  immediately  after  being  generated  that  few  carriers  are 
left  in  the  intrinsic  region.  Now  the  space  charge  decreases  with  increas- 
ing bias  until  there  is  negligible  space  charge,  and  a  relatively  large  and 
constant  electric  field  extends  through  the  intrinsic  region  from  junction 
to  junction.  This  may  happen  at  biases  that  are  still  much  too  low  to 
appreciably  affect  the  high  fields  right  at  the  junction  or  in  the  extrinsic 
layers,  which  remain  approximately  as  they  were  for  zero  bias. 

The  current  will  increase  with  voltage  until  the  total  number  of 
carriers  in  the  intrinsic  region  becomes  small  compared  to  its  normal 
value.  After  that,  there  is  negligible  further  increase  of  current  with 
voltage.  All  the  carriers  generated  in  the  intrinsic  region  are  being  sw^ept 
out  before  recombining.  In  general,  the  current  will  saturate  while  the 
minimum  field  in  the  intrinsic  region  is  still  small  compared  to  the 
average  field. 

Comparison  with  the  NP  Structure 

The  analysis  is  more  difficult  than  in  a  simple  reverse-biased  NP 

structure.  In  the  NP  case  there  is  a  well  defined  space  charge  region  in 

I  which  carrier  concentration  is  negligible  compared  to  the  fixed  charge  of 

i  the  chemical  impurities;  so  the  field  and  potential  distributions  are  easily 

found  from  the  known  distribution  of  fixed  charge.  Outside  of  the  space 

i  charge  region  are  the  diffusion  regions  in  which  the  minority  carrier  con- 

j  centration  rises  from  a  low  value  at  the  edge  of  the  space  charge  region 

;  to  its  normal  value  deep  in  the  extrinsic  region.  However,  there  is  no 

,  space  charge  in  this  region  because  the  majority  carrier  concentration, 

I  by  a  very  small  percentage  variation,  can  compensate  for  the  large  per- 

I  centage  variation  in  minority  carrier  density.  The  minority  carriers  flow 

by  diffusion.  Since  the  disturbance  in  carrier  density  is  small  compared  to 

the  majority  density,  the  recombination  follows  a  simple  linear  law 

(being  directly  proportional  to  the  excess  of  minority  carriers).  Thus 

the  minority  carrier  distribution  is  found  by  solving  the  simple  diffusion 

equation  with  linear  recombination. 

None  of  these  simplifications  extend  to  the  NIP  or  NI  or  IP  structure. 
There  is,  in  the  intrinsic  region,  no  fixed  charge;  hence  the  space  charge 
is  that  of  the  carriers.  There  is  no  majority  carrier  concentration  to 
maintain  electrical  neutrality  outside  of  a  limited  space  charge  region. 


1242       THE    BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

It  is  necessary  to  take  account  of  (1)  space  charge,  (2)  carrier  drift,  (3) 
carrier  diffusion  and  (4)  recombination  according  to  a  nonlinear  bi- 
molecular  law.  Of  these  four,  only  space  charge  and  recombination  are 
never  simultaneously  important  in  practical  cases.  Nevertheless  certain 
simplifications  can  be  made  if  the  problem  is  formulated  so  as  to  take 
advantage  of  them.  The  field  and  carrier  distributions  in  the  intrinsic 
region  are  found  by  joining  two  solutions:  one  solution  is  for  charge 
neutrality;  the  other,  which  we  shall  call  the  no-recombination  solution 
is  for  the  case  where  the  recombination  rate  is  negligible  compared  to  the 
rate  of  thermal  generation  of  hole  electron  pairs.  We  shall  show  that  in 
practical  cases  the  ranges  of  validity  of  the  two  solutions  overlap;  that 
is,  wherever  recombination  is  important,  we  have  charge  neutrality. 

Prim's  Zero-Current  Approximation 

Prim*  derived  the  field  distribution  in  a  reverse  biased  NIP  structure; 
on  the  assumption  that  the  hole  and  electron  currents  are  negligibly  small 
differences  between  their  drift  and  diffusion  terms,  as  in  the  zero- bias 
case.  He  showed  that  the  average  diffusion  current  is  large  compared 
to  the  average  current.  However,  as  it  turns  out,  this  is  misleading.: 
Throughout  almost  all  of  the  intrinsic  region  (where  the  voltage  drop 
occurs  in  practical  cases)  the  diffusion  current  is  comparable  to  or 
smaller  than  the  total  current.  The  larger  average  diffusion  current  comes 
from  the  extremely  large  diffusion  current  in  the  small  regions  of  high 
space  charge  at  the  junctions.  Prim's  analysis,  in  effect,  neglects  the  space 
charge  of  the  carriers  generated  in  the  intrinsic  region.  These  may  be 
neglected  in  calculating  the  field  distribution  if  the  intrinsic  region  is 
sufficiently  narrow  or  the  reverse  bias  sufficiently  high.  In  the  appendix 
we  derive  the  limits  within  which  Prim's  calculation  of  the  field  and 
potential  will  be  valid.  The  range  will  increase  with  both  the  Debye 
length  and  the  diffusion  length  in  the  intrinsic  material.  However,  in 
cases  of  practical  interest  the  zero-current  approximation  may  lead  to 
serious  errors  in  the  field  distribution  and  give  a  misleading  idea  of  the 
penetration  of  the  field  into  the  intrinsic  region.  The  present,  more 
general  analysis,  reduces  to  Prim's  near  the  junctions  where  the  zero- 
current  assumption  remains  valid.  The  zero  current  approximation  was, 
of  course,  not  intended  to  give  the  hole  and  electron  distributions  in  the 
intrinsic  region  or  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  interacting  drift,  diffusion 
and  recombination. 


Ibid. 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1243 

Outline  of  the  Following  Sections 

Sections  II  through  V  deal  with  the  ideal  ease  of  equal  hole  and  elec- 
tron mobilities.  Here  the  problem  is  somewhat  simplified  and  the  physics 
easier  to  visualize  because  of  the  resulting  symmetry.  In  Section  VI, 
the  general  case  of  arbitrary  mobilities  is  solved  by  an  extension  of  the 
methods  developed  for  solving  the  ideal  case.  The  technique  is  to  deal 
not  with  the  hole  and  electron  flow  densities  but  with  two  linear  com- 
binations of  hole  and  electron  flow  densities  that  have  a  simple  form. 

Section  II  deals  with  the  basic  relations  and  in  particular  the  formula 
for  recombination  in  an  intrinsic  region  for  large  disturbances  in  carrier 
density.  The  nature  and  range  of  validity  of  the  various  approximations 
are  discussed.  Section  III  derives  the  field  distribution  in  regions  where 
recombination  is  small  compared  to  pair  generation.  Section  IV  treats 
the  recombination  region  and  the  smooth  joining  of  the  recombination 
and  no-recombination  solutions.  Section  V  considers  the  role  of  chffusion 
in  current  flow  and  the  situation  at  the  junctions  where  the  field  and 
carrier  concentration  abruptly  become  large.  The  change  in  form  of 
the  solution  near  the  junctions  is  shown  to  be  represented  by  a  basic  in- 
stability in  the  governing  differential  equation.  Section  VI  extends  the 
results  to  the  general  case  of  unequal  mobilities.  Section  VII  deals  with 
the  still  more  general  case  where  there  is  some  fixed  charge  in  the  "in- 
trinsic" region.  If  the  density  of  excess  chemical  impurities  is  small  com- 
pared to  the  intrinsic  carrier  density,  the  solution  remains  unchanged  in 
the  range  where  recombination  is  important.  In  the  no-recombination 
region  the  solution  is  given  b}''  a  simple  first  order  differentiatial  equation 
which  can  be  solved  in  closed  form  in  the  range  where  the  carrier  flow  is 
by  drift.  The  fixed  charge  may  have  a  dominant  effect  on  the  space 
charge  even  when  the  excess  density  of  chemical  impurities  is  small  com- 
pared to  the  density  n,  of  electrons  in  intrinsic  material.  Consider,  for 
example,  a  junction  between  an  extrinsic  P  region  and  a  weakly  doped 
n  region  having  an  excess  density  N  =  Nd  —  Na  oi  donors.  In  the  limit, 
as  the  reverse  bias  is  increased  and  the  space  charge  penetrates  many 
difi"usion  lengths  into  the  n  region,  the  field  distribution  becomes  linear, 
corresponding  to  a  constant  charge  density  equal  to 

m  +  Vn^  +  8  n.-^jeV^i'] 

where  Li  is  the  diffusion  length  in  the  weakly  doped  n  type  region  and  £ 
is  the  Debye  length  for  intrinsic  material.  For  germanium  at  room  tem- 
perature £,/Li  is  the  order  of  10~^  Thus,  in  this  example,  a  donor  density 
as  low  as  lO"  cm~^  will  have  an  appreciable  effect  on  the  space  charge. 


1244       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


II.    BASIC    RELATIONS 

The  problem  can  be  stated  in  terms  of  the  hole  density  p,  the  electron 
density  Ji,  and  the  electric  field  E  and  their  derivatives.  Let  the  distance 
.T  be  measured  in  the  direction  from  N  to  P.  The  field  will  be  taken  as 
positive  when  a  hole  tends  to  drift  in  the  -{-x  direction.  The  field  in- 
creases in  going  in  the  -fx  direction  when  the  space  charge  is  positive. 
Poisson's  equation  for  intrinsic  material  is 

f  =  a(p  -  «)  (2.1) 

where  the  constant  a  has  the  dimensions  of  volt  cm  and  is  given  in  terms 
of  the  electronic  charge  q  and  the  dielectric  constant  k  by 

■iirq 

a  =  — - 

K 

For  germanium  a  =  1.17  X  10~   volt  cm. 

The  hole  and  electron  flow  densities  Jp  and  J„  are^ 


Jp  =  nEv  -  d'^  =  ^,Je  -—^Inv 
ax  \  q   dx 


Jn  =  —hi  nEn  +  D  -^  j  =  —bun 


E  -\ -Inn 

q   dx 


(2.2) 


where  n  and  D  =  n  kT/q  are  the  hole  mobility  and  diffusion  constant  re- 
spectively, k  is  Boltzmann's  constant  (8.63  X  10~^  cv  per  °C)  and  T  is 
the  absolute  temperature.  The  ratio  b  of  electron  mobility  to  hole  mo- 
bility we  take  to  be  unity.  This  makes  the  problem  symmetrical  in  n  and 
p  and  consequently  easier  to  understand.  Section  \T  will  extend  the  re- 
sults to  the  general  case  of  arbitrary  b. 

Charge  and  Particle  Flow 

For  some  purposes  it  helps  to  express  the  flow  not  in  terms  of  Jp  and 
Jn  but  rather  in  terms  of  the  current  density  /  and  the  flow  density 
J  =  Jp  -\-  Jn  oi  particles,  or  carriers.  The  current  density  /  =  q{Jp  — 
Jn).  Each  carrier,  hole  or  electron,  gives  a  positive  contribution  to 
J  if  it  goes  in  the  +.r  direction  and  a  negative  contribution  if  it  goes  in 
the  —X  direction.  In  other  words,  J  is  the  net  flow  of  carriers  regardless 
of  their  charge  sign.  The  current  /  is  constant  throughout  the  intrinsic 


^  See,  for  example,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  by  W.  Shockley. 
D.  Van  Nostrand  Co.,  New  York,  1950. 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC    STRUCTURE 


1245 


region.  Particle  flow  is  away  from  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region. 
Carriers  are  generated  in  the  intrinsic  region  and  flow  out  at  the  two  ends, 
the  electrons  going  out  on  the  N  side  and  holes  on  the  F  side.  Thus  J  is 
positive  near  the  IP  junction  and  negative  near  the  NI  junction. 
From  the  definitions  of  /  and  J  and  equations  (2.2) 


-  =  nE{p  -\-  n)  -  D  -J- {-p  -  11) 
q  ax 

J  =  m£'(p  -  n)  -  D^(p-\-n) 


(2.3) 


It  is  convenient  to  express  the  equations  in  terms  of  E  and  a  dimen- 
sionless  variable 


s  = 


n  +  p 
2ni 


(2.4) 


I  which  measures  how  "swept"  the  region  is.  In  normal  intrinsic  material 
s  =  1.  In  a  completely  swept  region  s  =  0;  at  the  junctions  with  highly 

''  extrinsic  material  s  ^  I.  Using  Poisson's  equation  to  express  p  —  n  in 
terms  of  E,  equations  (2.3)  become 


r        J,     qD  ctE 

1  =  asE  -  ■ —  -— 
a    ax- 


J  = 


d_ 
dx 


2a 


-  27uDs 


(2.5) 


where  a  =  2  /x  n,g  is  the  conductivity  of  intrinsic  material.  The  particle 
flow  J  is  thus  seen  to  be  the  gradient  of  a  flow  potential  that  depends 
only  on  E  and  s. 

Equations  (2.5)  can  be  written  in  the  form 


[ 


a\  sE  -  £■ 


drE 

dx^ 


(2.6) 


(2.7) 


where  £  —  \/kT/2aniq  is  the  Debye  length  in  intrinsic  material  and 

V2kT 


q& 


(2.8) 


is  a  field  characteristic  of  the  material  and  temperature.  Specifically  Ex 
is  \/2  times  the  field  required  to  give  a  voltage  drop  kT/q  in  a  Debye 


1246       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,   NOVEMBER    1956 

length.  For  germanium  at  room  temperature  £  =  6.8  10~*  cm  and  Ei  = 
383  volts  per  cm. 

Both  /  and  /  are  the  sum  of  a  drift  term  and  a  diffusion  term.  For 
charge  neutrahty,  where  p  —  nis  small  compared  to  p  +  n,  both  charge 
diffusion  and  particle  drift  can  be  neglected.  We  shall  see  later  that, 
except  right  at  the  junctions,  charge  diffusion  is  negligible. 

The  Equations  of  Continuity 
The  two  equations  of  continuity  are 


I 


(.ttJ  p  (J/fJ  fi 

dx         dx 


=  g  -  r  (2.9) 


where  g  is  the  rate  of  pair  generation  and  r  the  rate  of  recombination.  In 
terms  of  /  and  /,  these  become  I 

^  =  0  (2.10) 


or  /  =  constant  and 


^  =  2(^  -  r)  (2.11) 


which  says  that  the  gradient  of  particle  flow  is  equal  to  the  net  rate  of 
particle  generation,  that  is,  twice  the  net  rate  of  pair  generation. 

To  complete  the  statement  of  the  problem  it  remains  to  express  g  and 
r  in  terms  of  n  and  p. 

Generation  and  Recombination 

The  direct  generation  and  recombination  of  holes  and  electrons  follows 
the  mass  action  law,  in  which  g  —  r  is  proportional  to  w/  —  np.  The  con- 
stant of  proportionality  can  be  defined  in  terms  of  a  lifetime  t  as  fol- 
lows: Let  8p  =  871  <$C  Ui  be  a  small  disturbance  in  carrier  density.  Then 
defining  T(g  —  r)  =  —8n,  we  see  that  the  proportionality  constant  in 
the  mass  action  law  is  (2niT)~  .  So 

,  _  ,  =  !^ipi!£  (2.12) 


and  the  generation  rate 


g  =  ^  (2.13) 


is  independent  of  carrier  concentration. 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1247 

In  actual  semiconducting  materials,  recombination  is  not  direct. 
Rather  it  occurs  through  a  trap,  or  recombination  center.  The  statistics 
of  indirect  recombination  has  been  treated  by  Shockley  and  Read^  for  a 
recombination  center  having  an  arbitrary  energy  level  &i  somewhere  in 
the  energy  gap.  At  any  temperature  the  trap  level  can  be  expressed  by 
the  values  rii  and  pi  which  n  and  p  would  have  if,  at  that  temperature, 
the  Fermi  level  were  at  the  trap  level.  Shockley  and  Read  showed  that, 
at  a  given  temperature,  the  lifetime  for  small  disturbances  in  carrier 
density  is  a  maximum  in  intrinsic  material.  It  drops  to  limiting  values 
T„o  and  Tpo  in  highly  extrinsic  n  and  p  material,  respectively.  The  formula 
for  gr  —  r  in  terms  of  n  and  p  is 

g  -  r  =  — T— - — .     ,      ^. . r  (2.14) 

Tpo(n    +    ni)     +    Tnoip    +    Pi) 

For  our  purposes  it  is  more  convenient  to  define  the  hfetime  r  not  by 
'''(d  ~  f)  =  —  6n  «  Wi ,  but  rather  as  the  proportionality  factor  in  the 
mass  action  law.  Then  r  is  not  necessarily  constant  independent  of  carrier 
density.  From  (2.12)  and  (2.14) 

Tpo(n  +  Wi)  +  T„o(p  +  P\)  i^  .  re. 

r  =  ~ (2.15) 

We  shall  be  interested  in  the  hfetime  in  the  region  where  7i  and  p  are 
equal  to  or  less  than  n,  .  r  decreases  as  n  and  p  decrease;  that  is,  t  is  less 
in  a  swept  region  than  in  normal  intrinsic  material.  Let  r  =  Tj  for  7i  = 
p  =  7ii  and  T  =  To  for  n  =  p  =  0.  The  total  range  of  variation  of  r  is  by 
a  factor  of 

II  =  1  +  ^^'(t'po  +  rpo)  ,^  ^g. 

TO  PlTnO    +    rilTpO 

Let  the  energy  levels  be  measured  relative  to  the  intrinsic  level,  and 
define  a  level  8o  by 


\      TpO 

Then  if  &t  =  &o ,  niTpo  =  piTno  •  Now  eq.  (2.16)  becomes 


So  =  kT\n  .., 

TpO 


^^^sech(^i^)  (2.17) 

Thus  the  variation  in  r  increases  as  the  ratio  of  Tno  to  Zpo  deviates  from 
unity  and  as  the  trap  level  moves  away  from  the  level  8o . 

3  W.  Shockley  and  W.  T.  Read,  Jr.,  Phys.  Rev.,  87,  p.  835,  1952. 


1248      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

The  data  of  Burton,  Hull,  Morin,  and  Severien*  shows  that  a  typical 
value  of  the  ratio  of  Tpo  and  r„o  is  about  10.  This  means  that  the  varia- 
tion in  r  with  carrier  concentration  will  be  less  than  10  per  cent  provided 
St  is  about  -ikT  from  So .  In  what  follows  we  shall  assume  that  this  is  so. 
Then  we  have  the  mass  action  law  (2.12)  with  r  a  constant,  which  could 
be  measured  by  one  of  the  standard  technicjues  involving  small  dis- 
turbances in  carrier  density.  The  general  case  of  variable  t  is  considered 
briefly  at  the  end  of  Section  IV. 

Outline  of  the  Solution 

To  conclude  this  section,  we  discuss  briefly  the  form  of  the  equations 
and  the  solution  in  different  parts  of  the  intrinsic  region.  First  consider 
(2.6)  for  the  current  in  the  ideal  case  of  equal  mobilities.  In  Sections  III 
and  V  we  shall  show  that  throughout  almost  all  of  the  intrinsic  region  the 
current  flows  mainly  by  pure  drift  so  we  can  take  I  =  asE.  The  reason 
for  this  is  as  follows.  The  quantity  £  is  so  small  that  the  diffusion  term 
remains  negligible  unless  the  second  derivative  of  E  becomes  large  —  so 
large  in  fact  that  the  E  versus  x  curve  bends  sharply  upward  and  both 
the  drift  and  diffusion  terms  become  large  compared  to  the  current  /. 
This  is  the  situation  at  the  junction  where  /  is  the  small  chfference  be- 
tween large  drift  and  diffusion  terms.  Thus  (2.6)  has  two  limiting  forms: 

(1)  Except  at  the  junctions  the  current  is  almost  pure  drift  so  7  = 
asE  is  a  good  approximation.  In  Section  III  we  derive  an  upper  limit 
for  the  error  introduced  by  this  approximation  and  show  how  the 
approximate  solution  can  be  corrected  to  take  account  of  the  diffusion 
term. 

(2)  At  the  junction,  the  drift  term  becomes  important  and  the 
current  rapidly  becomes  a  small  difference  between  its  drift  and  diffusion 
terms  and  the  solution  approaches  the  zero  current  solution,  for  which 
sE  =  £^  (fE/dx^.  In  Section  V  we  derive  an  approximate  solution  that 
joins  onto  the  I  =  asE  solution  near  the  junction  and  then  turns  con- 
tinously  and  rapidly  into  the  zero  current  solution.  We  shall  call  this  the 
junction  solution. 

The  abrupt  change  in  the  solution  from  (1)  to  (2)  near  the  junction 
is  shown  to  be  related  to  a  basic  instability  in  the  differential  equation. 
This  makes  it  impractical  to  solve  the  equations  on  a  machine. 

When  the  applied  bias  is  large  compared  to  the  built-in  voltage  drop, 
the  junction  region  will  be  of  relatively  little  interest  so  the  I  =  asE 
solution  can  be  used  throughout. 

In  the  region  where  /  =  <tsE  there  are  two  overlapping  regions  in 
which  the  equations  assume  a  simple  form.  These  are  the  following:       ' 

^  Burton,  Hull,  Morin  and  Severiens,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  57,  p.  853,  1953. 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1249 

The  No-Recojnhination  Solution 

Here  recombination  is  small  compared  to  generation,  r  «  g.  This  will 
be  so  in  at  least  part  of  the  intrinsic  region  for  reverse  biases  of  more 
than  a  few  kT/q.  The  E  versus  x  curve  turns  out  to  be  given  by  a 
simple,  cubic  algebraic  equation. 

The  Recombination,  or  Charge  Neutrality,  Solution 

Here  7i  —  ja  is  small  compared  to  n  +  p,  so  the  particle  flow  is  by  dif- 
fusion. We  shall  find  that  the  s  versus  x  curve  is  given  by  a  third  degree 
elliptic  integral.  As  we  move  away  from  the  center  of  the  intrinsic 
region  and  toward  the  junctions,  recombination  becomes  small  com- 
pared to  generation  and  the  recombination  solution  goes  into  the  no- 
recombination  solution.  In  the  region  where  both  solutions  hold,  the 
solution  has  the  simple  form  s  =  I/aE  =  A  —  x'  where  A  is  a  constant 
that  must  be  less  than  f  and  the  unit  of  length  is  twice  the  diffusion 
length. 

As  the  bias  on  an  NIP  structure  is  increased  and  the  space  charge 
penetrates  through  the  intrinsic  region,  the  region  where  the  recombina- 
tion is  important  will  shrink  and  eventually  disappear. 

Fig.  1  is  a  schematic  plot  of  the  field  distribution  for  the  case  where 
the  applied  bias  is  large  compared  to  the  built-in  potential  drop  but  not 
large  enough  to  sweep  all  the  carriers  out  of  the  intrinsic  region.  As  the 
voltage  is  increased,  the  drop  in  field  in  the  intrinsic  region  will  become 
less  and  finally  the  field  distribution  will  be  almost  flat  from  junction  to 
junction.  Only  half  of  the  intrinsic  region  is  shown  in  Fig.  1.  For  equal 
mobilities  the  field  distribution  will  be  symmetrical  about  the  center 
Xi  of  the  intrinsic  region. 

The  illustration  shows  the  recombination  solution  (1),  which  holds 
near  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region  and  overlaps  (2),  the  no-recom- 
bination solution.  The  junction  solution  (3)  joins  continuously  onto  the 
no-recombination  solution  at  the  point  .To  and  rapidly  breaks  away  and 
approaches  the  zero-current  solution  at  the  junction.  The  figure  is  sche- 
matic and  has  not  been  drawn  to  scale.  In  most  cases  of  interest,  the  low 
fields  in  the  recombination  region  will  be  much  lower  and  the  junction 
solution  will  hold  over  a  smaller  fraction  of  the  intrinsic  region. 

It  is  convenient  to  take  x  =  0  not  at  the  center  .r,  of  the  intrinsic 
region  but  at  the  minimum  on  the  no-recombination  solution.  As  the 
applied  bias  increases,  x,  approaches  zero. 

Unequal  Mobilities 

In  the  general  case  of  unequal  mobilities,  it  is  no  longer  so  that  /  is 
pure  drift  except  at  the  junctions.  However  we  can  define  a  linear  com- 


1250       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


--Ec 


/ 

// 

/L^ 

1 

1          X 

^  /■• 

1 

1 

1    / 
1    / 
1   / 

/ 

1  / 
1  / 
1  / 

/ 

1  / 
1/ 

/ZERO 

/  BIAS 

/ 

^^^_y 

^ 

1 

Fig.  1  —  Schematic  of  the  field  distribution  and  the  three  overlapping  solutions. 

bination  of  Jp  and  J„  Avhich  has  the  same  form  as  /  m  (2.6)  and  in 
which  the  diffusion  term  is  neghgible  except  near  the  junction.  As  we 
show  in  section  VI,  the  effect  of  unequal  mobiHties  is  (1)  to  introduce 
some  asymmetry  into  the  curve  in  the  region  where  the  curvature  is 
upward  and  (2)  to  displace  the  curve  toward  the  NI  junction  (for  the 
case  where  the  electrons  have  the  higher  mobility).  Thus  the  field  is 
higher  on  the  side  where  the  carrier  mobility  is  lower,  as  would  be  ex- 
pected. 


III.    THE    NO-RECOMBINATION    CASE 

This  section  deals  with  the  case  where  recombination  can  be  neglected 
in  comparison  with  generation.  This  will  be  so  where  7ip  is  small  com- 
pared to  Hi  . 

The  continuity  equation  for  J  now  becomes 


dJ       „         ni 
—  =  2g  =  — 

ax  T 


(3.1) 


( 


THEORY   OF  THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1251 

Combining  this  with  (2.7)  gives 

^(^-,)  =  JL  (32) 

where  L/  =  Z)r  is  the  diffusion  length  in  intrinsic  material. 

Equation  (3.2)  can  be  immediately  integrated.  There  are  two  con- 
'stants  of  integration,  one  of  which  can  be  made  to  vanish  by  choosing 
[a;  =  0  at  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region,  where  the  first  derivatives  of 
E  and  s  vanish.  {E  is  a  minimum  here  and  s  a  maximum).  The  solution 
obtained  by  two  integrations  is 


r     -^=(~]    -A  (3.3) 


As  we  shall  see  later,  the  constant  A  is  determined  by  the  voltage  drop 

j across  the  unit. 

I     The  exact  procedure  now  would  be  to  substitute  s  from  (3.3)  into  (2.6). 

The  resulting  second  order  differential  equation  could,  in  principle, 
Ithen  be  solved  for  E  versus  x.  The  exact  solution,  however,  would  be 
i quite  difficult.  We  shall  discuss  it  in  Section  V.  Here  we  make  the  assump- 
'tion  that  throughout  the  intrinsic  region  the  charge  flow  is  mainly  by 
'drift,  so  that  we  can  neglect  the  diffusion  term  in  (2.6)  and  take  /  = 

asE,  as  discussed  in  Section  IL  Later  in  this  section  we  find  an  upper 

limit  on  the  error  due  to  this  assumption  and  show  how  the  cubic  can  be 
i  corrected  to  take  account  of  the  diffusion  term. 
1     Putting  s  =  I/(tE  in  (3.3)  gives  a  cubic  equation 


1  for  E/Ei  as  a  function  of  x/2Li .  This  equation  contains  two  parameters 

I  /  and  A .  A  determines  the  voltage  and  /  is  determined  by  the  length 

i  2L  of  the  intrinsic  region.  The  relation  is  as  follows:  Let  the  applied 

[  voltage  drop  across  each  junction  be  at  least  a  few  kT/q.  Then  the 

minority  carrier  currents  from  the  extrinsic  regions  will  have  reached 

their  saturation  values.  Call  Is  the  sum  of  the  hole  current  from  the 

A^  region  and  the  electron  current  from  the  P  region.  Is  comes  from  pairs 

generated  in  the  extrinsic  regions  near  the  junctions.  7s  can  be  made 

arbitrarily  small  by  making  the  N  and  P  regions  sufficiently  highly 

doped  (provided  the  diffusion  length  in  the  extrinsic  material  does  not 

decrease  with  doping  faster  than  the  majority  carrier  concentration  in- 


1252       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHJVICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

creases).  The  current  generated  in  the  intrinsic  region  is  qg  per  unit 
volume.  So  the  density  of  current  from  pairs  generated  in  the  intrinsic 
layer  is  2Lqg  =  qniL/r.  Hence 

/  =  /.  +  ^ 

r 

In  what  follows  we  shall  assume  that  Is  is  negligibly  small  compared  to, 
/.  Then 

r  _  /^'^A  J        (qUiD 

'-\-7)^-\-L- 

Thus  /  is  L/Li  times  a  characteristic  current  equal  to  (1)  the  diffusion 
current  produced  by  a  gradient  rii/Li  or  (2)  the  drift  current  produced  by  ." 
a  field  that  gives  the  voltage  drop  kT/q  in  two  diffusion  lengths  in  normal 
intrinsic  material.  In  germanium  this  characteristic  current  is  about  5 
milliamperes  per  cm  . 

That  the  current  /  is  proportional  to  L  and  independent  of  voltage 
follows  from  the  neglect  of  recombination.  When  recombination  is  small 
compared  to  generation,  then  the  current  has  reached  its  maximum,  or 
saturation,  value.  All  the  carriers  generated  in  the  intrinsic  region  are 
swept  out  before  recombining.  It  will  sometimes  be  convenient  to  take 
(jEi  as  the  unit  of  current.  From  the  above  and  (2.8) 

/     „V2£L  ^3_^^ 


In  germanium  aEi  is  about  7  amperes  per  cm*.  In  general  we  will  be  deal- 
ing with  currents  that  are  small  compared  to  this.  For  example,  if  L, 
is  1  mm,  we  would  have  to  sweep  out  an  intrinsic  region  3  meters  long 
in  order  to  get  a  current  this  large.  If  we  take  Ei  as  the  unit  field,  aEi  as 
the  unit  current  and  2Li  as  the  unit  length  then  the  cubic  becomes  E  — 
I/E  =  x^  -  A. 

For  a  given  structure  and  temperature  the  field  versus  x  curves  form 
a  one  parameter  family.  A  determines  both  the  field  distribution  and  the 
voltage.  The  voltage  increases  as  A  decreases.  Fig.  2  is  a  plot  of  E/Ei 
versus  x/2Li  for  L/2Li  =0.1  and  several  different  values  of  A.  Fig.  3 
is  for  L  =  2Li  and  Fig.  4  for  L/2L,  =  3. 

There  is  an  upper  limit  on  A  but  not  lower  limit.  The  reason  is  as 
follows:  As  A  increases,  the  minimum  value  of  E  (at  x  =  0)  decreases 
and  the  maximum  value  of  s  increases.  So  if  A  is  too  large,  the  maxi- 
mum 8  will  be  so  large  that  we  cannot  neglect  recombination,  which 
becomes  important  when  np  approaches  n',  or  s  approaches  1.  Fre- 


I 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE 


1253 


quently  recombination  can  be  neglected  over  parts  of  the  intrinsic 
region  but  not  near  the  center,  where  the  field  is  a  minimum  and  the  car- 
rier concentration  a  maximum.  Then  (3.4)  will  represent  the  field  dis- 
tribution over  that  part  of  the  region  where  recombination  is  unimpor- 
tant. The  correct  solution  will  join  onto  the  cubic  as  we  move  away 
fi'cjm  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region,  which  will  no  longer  be  at  the 
x  —  0  point  on  the  cubic.  In  Section  IV  we  solve  the  ecjuations  for  the 
recombination  region  and  show  how  the  solution  approaches  the  cubic. 
^\e  ^\•ill  show  that,  as  A  increases,  the  distance  from  the  center  of  the 
intrinsic  region  to  the  x  =  0  point  on  the  cubic  also  increases.  The 
value  A  =  %  corresponds  to  an  infinitely  long  intrinsic  region.  For  a 
larger  A  there  exists  no  exact  solution  that  could  join  onto  the  cubic 
as  recombination  becomes  negligible.  In  Figs.  3  and  4  the  .4  =  §  curves 
join  onto  recombination  solutions  at  values  of  E  which  are  too  low  to 
show. 


0.15 
0  14 
0.13 
0.12 
0.11 
0.10 
0.09 
0.08 
0.07 
0.06 
0.05 
0.04 
0.03 
0.02 
0.01 


y 

y 

^ 

A=-0.01 

^^ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

A=0.0025 

/ 

/ 

>> 

y 

/ 

^ 

y 

/^ 

/ 

'< 

^ 

A=0.01 

-<- 

^ 

y 

— 

0.02 


0.04      ,  0.06 

x/2Ll 


0.08 


0.10 


Fig.  2  —  Field  Distributions  for  L  =  0.2Li 


1254      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

As  A  decreases  and  becomes  negative  the  cubic  approaches  the  form 


E'  =  Eo'  +  Ei 


(3.6) 


where  Eq  =  —AEi  is  the  minimum  value  of  E".  This  form  of  the  solu- 
tion will  be  valid  when  the  minimum  E  is  large  compared  to  {lEi/a). 
As  Eq  increases,  the  voltage  increases  and  the  curve  becomes  flatter. 
This  is  because  the  increasing  field  sweeps  the  carriers  out  and  reduces 
the  space  charge;  so  the  drop  in  field  decreases. 

If  (3.4)  for  E/Ei  versus  x/2Li  is  extended  to  indefinitely  large  values 
of  x/2Li ,  it  approaches  the  straight  line  of  slope  1  going  through  the 
origin.  Since  E  is  always  positive  the  curve  is  above  this  straight  line  at 
X  =  0.  li  A  is  negative  the  curve  is  always  above  the  straight  line  and 
always  concave  upward.  If  A  is  positive,  the  curve  crosses  the  straight 

1.5 


1.4 
1.3 

1.2 

1.1 


1.0 


0.9 


0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 


0 


^ 

y 

y 

^^ 

^ 

/ 

A  =  -1 

^^ 

^ 

^^ 

// 

// 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

0  / 

/ 

/ 

'  > 

/o.i    y 

/ 

/ 

/, 

/ 

/'/3 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

Ia=2/3 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

^ 

J 

_^ 

/ 

0         0.1         0.2       0.3       0.4      0.5       0.6      0.7       0.8      0.9       1,0 
X/2Ll 


Fig.  3  —  Field  Distributions  for  L  =  2L,- 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE 


1255 


line  at  E/Ei  =  I/aEiA  and  thereafter  remains  under  it  approaching  it 
from  below.  For  positive  A  the  curvature,  which  is  upward  near  the  ori- 
gin, changes  to  downward  at  about  x/2Li  =  -y/A. 

The  carrier  concentrations  n  and  p  can  be  found  from  the  E  versus  x 
curves  with  the  aid  of  Poisson's  equation  p  —  n  =  1/a  dE/dx  and  the 
definition  s  =  (w  +  p)/2ni  with  s  =  I/aE.  These  relations  and  (3.4) 
give 


p  —  n  _  X 
p  +  n       L 


1 


1  + 


IE,'' 


(3.7) 


From  (3.4)  and  (3.7)  we  may  distinguish  the  following  two  regions 
on  the  cubic: 

(1)  When  E^/Ei  is  smaller  than  I/aEi  (which  as  we  have  seen  is 
usually  smaller  than  unity),  the  E  versus  x  curve  is  concave  upward,  the 
hole  and  electron  concentrations  are  almost  equal  (charge  neutrality) 
and  the  particle  flow  is  by  diffusion. 

(2)  When  E^/E-^  is  greater  than  I/aEi ,  in  general  there  is  space 
charge  and  the  particle  flow,  like  the  charge  flow,  is  by  drift.  The  curve 
is  concave  downward  for  positive  A. 

Figure  6,  which  we  will  discuss  in  Section  IV,  shows  the  field  and  car- 
rier distributions  for  L  =  2Li  and  A  =  0.665  plotted  on  a  logarithmic 


2.8 
2.4 

^ 

/ 

/// 

2.0 

/ 

// 

// 

/ 

1- 

/ 

y/ 

// 

/ 

1.2 

A 

2 
~~  3 

/ 

// 

/ 

/ 

/ 

0.8 
0.4 

. 

.  n 

/  / 

/ 

V 

/ 

/ 

y^ 

2 

/ 

0 

^ 

3 

r 

0  0.4        0.8         1.2  1.6         2.0         2.4        2  8        3  2 

X/2Ll 


Fig.  4  —  Field  Distributions  for  L  =  GL,-  . 


1256       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

scale  to  show  the  behavior  at  low  values  of  field  and  carrier  density. 
In  the  region  of  no-recombination  the  field  distribution  is  indistinguish- 
able from  that  for  A  =  ^,  which  is  plotted  in  Fig.  3  on  a  linear  scale.  In 
the  region  where  recombination  is  important  the  solution  is  found  from 
the  assimiption  of  charge  neutrality  as  will  be  discussed  in  Section  IV. 
The  cubic  and  charge  neutrality  solutions  are  each  shown  dashed  outside 
of  their  respective  ranges  of  validity.  For  A  =  0.665  the  half  length  of 
the  intrinsic  region  is  2.098  X  2Li .  Thus  the  length  of  the  intrinsic  re- 
gion is  more  than  twice  the  effective  length  2L  in  which  current  is 
generated.  The  effective  length  will  be  discussed  in  more  detail  in  Section 
IV  and  it  will  be  shown  that  the  effective  length  2L  of  current  generation 
is  equal  to  the  twice  the  distance  from  the  IP  junction  to  the  minimum  on 
the  cubic.  As  explained  earlier,  it  is  convenient  to  take  x  =  0  at  the  mini- 
mum on  the  cubic. 

Inirinsic-Exirinsic  Junction  Under  Large  Bias 

Consider  the  limiting  case  of  an  intrinsic-extrinsic  junction  as  the 
bias  is  increased  and  the  space  charge  penetrates  many  diffusion  lengths 
into  the  intrinsic  material.  Then  the  field  distribution  approaches  the 
straight  line  E/Ei  =  x/2Li .  This,  by  Poisson's  equation,  means  that 
there  is  a  constant  charge  density  of  Ni  where 

2aLi         Li 

Thus  in  the  limit,  the  field  in  the  intrinsic  region  approaches  that  in  a 
completely  swept  extrinsic  region  having  a  fixed  charge  density  of  Ni . 
In  germanium  at  room  temperature  Ni  is  about  4.10^"  cm~^  As  the 
field  approaches  the  limiting  form,  the  voltage  V  approaches  EiL^/iLi . 
Thus  the  limiting  form  of  the  current  voltage  curve  is 


aEi       L,  y  2EiL 


So  in  the  limit  the  current  varies  as  the  square  root  of  the  voltage.  Typical 
values  for  germanium  at  room  temperature  are  a-Ei  =  7  amps  cm"""', 
£/Li  =  10"^  and  2EiLi  =  50  volts. 

Equivalent  Generation  Length  for  an  Lntrinsic-Extrinsic  Junction 

It  should  be  noted  that  for  an  IP  structure  the  current  is  the  same  as 
for  an  NIP  structure  with  an  infinite  /  i-egion,  or  at  least  an  /  region 
that  is  long  compared  to  the  distance  of  penetration  of  the  space  charge. 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1257 

Thus  the  equivalent  length  of  current  generation  is  2L  even  though  the 
current  is  actually  being  generated  in  an  effective  length  L.  The  reason 
is  that  for  an  NIP  structure  the  holes  entering  the  right  hand  half  of  the 
/  region  were  generated  in  the  left  hand  side.  For  an  IP  structure  the 
holes  entering  the  space  charge  regions  from  the  left  were  injected  at  the 
external  left  hand  contact  to  the  /  region. 

Applied  Voltage 

In  all  cases  the  voltage  can  be  found  from  the  area  under  the  E  versus 
X  curve.  In  Figs.  2  to  4  the  area  under  the  curves  gives  the  voltage  ac- 
curately; recombination  becomes  important  only  where  the  field  is  so 
low  as  to  have  a  negligible  effect  on  the  total  voltage  drop. 

Correction  of  the  Cubic 

To  conclude  this  section  we  consider  the  error  introduced  by  using  the 
assumption  /  =  asE.  For  simplicity  take  Ei  as  the  unit  field,  2Li  as 
the  unit  length  and  aEi  as  the  unit  current.  Then  the  cubic  becomes 
E"  —  I  IE  =  x"  —  A.  The  corresponding  exact  solution  is  E'  —  s  = 
x^  —  A  where  the  relation  between  s  and  E  is  given  by  equation  (2.6) 
which  in  dimensionless  form  is 

^'%-^B-I  (3.8) 

where  £  is  of  the  order  of  10~  . 

Let  bE  and  bs  represent  the  difference  between  the  cubic  and  the  cor- 
rect solution  at  a  giv^en  x.  Assume  that  bE  and  its  second  derivative  are 
small  compared  to  E  and  its  second  derivative  respectively.  Then  bs  = 
2EbE  and  on  the  correct  solution  sE  -  I  =  (2lf  -f  I/E)bE.  So  (3.8) 
becomes 


bE       (      £'      \d'-E 


E       \2E^  +  //  dx'- 


(3.9) 


To  obtain  a  first  approximation  to  bE/E  we  use  the  cubic  to  evaluate 
d  E/dx  .  It  is  convenient  to  express  the  results  in  terms  of  a  dimension- 
less  variable  z  =  E/I^'^,  or  if  E  and  /  are  measured  in  conventional  units 
z  =  E{a/Eilf'\  Then  (3.9)  becomes 

bE  __  1  (L,£\-"  (     z     \-    ,    (  X  Y  ^'(1  -  z)  (3  ^Q^ 


E       2\U  /      \z^  +  hJ        \2LJ   {z^  +  i)^ 
iV'hen  the  lengths  are  in  conventional  units. 


1258       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

The  first  term  has  a  maximum  value  of  0.35  (L,£/L^)^'^  at  2  =  0.6 
and  the  second  term  a  maximum  value  of  0.18  at  2  =  0.5  and  x  =  L. 

The  dashed  curve  in  Fig.  2  for  ^  =  ,01  is  the  corrected  cubic.  For 
the  other  curves  in  Fig.  2,  the  correction  is  smaller.  For  the  curves  in 
Figs.  3  and  4  the  correction  is  too  small  to  show. 

Limits  on  the  Solution 

We  now  show  that  8E  as  derived  above  is  not  only  a  first  approxima- 
tion but  also  upper  limit  on  the  correction  necessary  to  take  account  of 
charge  diffusion.  That  is,  an  exact  solution  to  (3.8)  lies  between  the  cubic 
and  the  corrected  cubic. 

Consider  the  region  where  the  second  derivative  of  E  is  positive  so 
that  the  perturbed  curve  lies  above  the  cubic  as  in  Fig.  2.  On  the  cubic 
we  have  s£'  —  7  =  0.  As  we  move  upward  from  the  cubic  and  toward  the 
dashed  curve,  sE  —  I  increases.  The  value  oi  sE  —  I  on  the  dashed  curve 
just  equals  the  value  of  £'  d'E/dx'  on  the  cubic.  However,  the  dashed 
curve  has  a  smaller  second  derivative  than  the  cubic.  Thus  in  moving 
upward  from  the  cubic  toward  the  dashed  curve  sE  —  I  increases  from 
zero  and  £'  d  E/dx  ,  which  is  positive,  decreases;  on  the  dashed  curve 
sE  —  I  is  actually  greater.  Therefore  there  is  a  curve  lying  just  under 
the  dashed  curve  where  the  two  sides  of  (3.8)  are  equal.  The  same  argu- 
ment applied  to  the  region  where  the  second  derivative  is  negative  shows 
that  the  equation  is  satisfied  by  a  curve  lying  just  above  the  first  per- 
turbation of  the  cubic.  Where  the  curvature  changes  sign,  the  cubic  is 
correct. 

It  should  be  emphasized  again  that  the  neglect  of  the  diffusion  term 
in  the  current  is  justified  only  for  the  ideal  case  of  equal  hole  and  electron 
mobilities.  For  unequal  mobilities  both  drift  and  diffusion  will  be  im- 
portant in  current  flow.  However,  as  we  will  discuss  in  section  5,  we  can 
simplify  the  problem  of  unequal  mobilities  by  defining  a  fictitious  current 
that  has  the  same  form  as  /  in  (2.6)  and  (3.8). 

IV.    RECOMBINATION 

As  discussed  in  Section  III,  when  the  voltage  for  a  given  current  is  re- 
duced, s  increases  and  near  x  =  0  becomes  comparable  to  unity.  Then 
recombination  becomes  important  and  the  cubic  solution  breaks  down, 
or  rather  joins  onto  a  solution  that  takes  account  of  recombination. 
When  recombination  is  important  the  center  Xi  of  the  intrinsic  region  is 
no  longer  at  the  .r  =  0  point  on  the  cubic  but  to  the  left  of  it.  That  is,  if 
we  want  the  same  current  with  continually  decreasing  voltage,  we  even- 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT    INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1259 

tually  get  to  the  point  where  a  longer  intrinsic  region  is  required.  Finally 
for  a  given  current  we  reach  a  minimum  voltage  which  corresponds  to  an 
infinite  length  of  intrinsic  region.  Another  way  of  saying  this  is  that, 
when  recombination  becomes  important,  the  length  L  defined  in  terms  of 
the  current  by  /  =  qg2L  =  qrii/rL  is  no  longer  the  half  length  of  the 
intrinsic  region. 

Equivalent  Generation  Length 

We  shall  continue  to  define  L  by  /  =  qnilrh.  Thus  L  is  an  equivalent, 
or  effective,  half  length  of  current  generation  and  not  the  half  length  of 
the  intrinsic  region.  By  definition  L  is  the  length  such  that  the  amount 
of  generation  alone  in  the  length  L  is  equal  to  the  net  amount  of  genera- 
tion (generation  minus  recombination)  in  the  total  half  length  of  the 
intrinsic  region.  Hence 

gL  =   [  \g  -  r)dx  (4.1) 

where  Xi  is  at  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region  and  Xp  at  the  IP  junction. 
We  shall  for  the  most  part  deal  with  reverse  biases  of  at  least  a  few  kT/g, 
in  which  case  recombination  is  negligible  at  the  junctions.  Then  the  exact 
solution  becomes  the  no- recombination  solution  before  reaching  the  junc- 
tions. We  shall  continue  to  take  x  =  0  at  the  point  dE/dx  =  ds/dx  =  0 
on  the  no-recombination  solution  which  the  exact  solution  approaches 
as  recombination  becomes  negligible. 

Simplifying  Assumptions 

The  general  differential  equation  with  recombination  will  be  the 
same  as  for  no-recombination  except  that  g  —  r  replaces  g.  From  (3.1) 
and  (3.2) 

From  (2.12)  and  (2.13)  and  Poisson's  equation 

r  =  !^  =  A^  +  pY  _  (^  -  P)^  =  s'  -  9  (—  —\        a  '\) 
g       n?       V   2n,    /  (2n,)  ^  \E,  dx )  "-^"^^ 

The  following  analysis  will  be  based  on  the  assumption  of  charge  neu- 
trality. That  is  we  neglect  terms  m  p  —  n  in  comparison  with  those  in 
p  -\-  n.\n  particular  this  means: 

(1)  The  charge  flows  by  drift  so  /  =  asE.  This  is  the  same  assumption 


1260      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

made  in  the  no-recombination  case.  It  will  be  an  even  better  approxima- 
tion in  the  recombination  region,  where  the  second  derivative  of  E  is  less. 

(2)  The  particle  flow  is  by  diffusion.  That  is,  E'^/E-C  can  be  neglected 
in  comparison  with  s. 

(3)  The  ratio  of  recombination  rate  r  to  generation  rate  g  is  propor- 
tional to  ^  —  r;  that  is  ^  —  r  =  ^(1  —  s~). 

All  of  these  simplifying  assumptions  can  be  justified  by  substituting 
the  resulting  solution  into  the  original  expressions  and  showing  that  the 
neglected  terms  are  small  when  recombination  is  important.  If  the 
solution  is  substituted  into  (4.3)  and  (2.6)  the  neglected  terms  will 
turn  out  to  be  negligible  —  and  therefore  assumptions  (1)  and  (3), 
justified  —  when  s^  is  large  compared  to  £/L,  .  Assumption  (2)  follows 
from  (1)  and  the  fact  that  IjaEx  is  small  compared  to  unity. 

Assumptions  (2)  and  (3)  may  also  be  justified  by  the  discussion  fol- 
lowing (3.7)  in  the  following  way:  Where  recombination  is  important  s 
must  be  near  unity.  So  the  cubic  will  begin  to  break  down  when  s  = 
II<jE  becomes  near  to  unity,  or  when  E  approaches  I  la.  However,  if 
E  is  approximately  I  /a  then  cE^/IEi  is  approximately  {I/aEif,  which, 
as  we  saw  in  the  Section  III,  is  small  compared  to  unity  in  practical 
cases.  Thus  recombination  becomes  important  and  the  solution  joins 
onto  the  cubic  in  the  range  where  E'^/Ei  is  small  compared  to  I/aEi  . 
In  this  range  the  particle  flow  is  by  diffusion  and  p  —  n  is  small  compared 
to  p  -f  n.  As  we  move  toward  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region  s  increases 
and  E  and  dE/dx  decrease.  Therefore,  since  assumptions  (2)  and  (3) 
are  good  where  the  solution  joins  onto  the  cubic,  they  are  good  through- 
out the  region  where  recombination  is  important. 


The  Recombinafion  Solution 
The  differential  ecjuation  (4.2)  now  takes  the  form 

d's  (1  -  s') 


dx"  2L,2 


(4.4) 


The  solution  for  s  in  the  recombination  range  is  seen  to  be  the  same  for 
all  values  of  the  current.  When  s  has  been  found  E  is  found  from  E  = 
I/as. 

For  small  disturbances  in  normal   carrier  concentration,   s  is  only 
slightly  different  from  unit}'  and  (4.4)  takes  the  familiar  form 

d'   ,  .        I  -  s 

-r^  (1  -  s)  = 


dx'  L 


2 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT    INTRINSIC    STRUCTURE  1261 

which  says  that  the  disturbance  in  carrier  concentration  varies  expo- 
nentially as  .t/L,  . 

Equation  (4.4)  can  be  integrated  once  to  give 

where  So  is  the  value  of  s  at  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region  where  s  is  a 
maximum. 

As  recombination  becomes  unimportant,  s   becomes  small  compared 
to  unity  and  (4.5)  approaches  the  form 


'dsY         1  /,        So^^ 


(4.6) 


\dx/        Lj" 
and  the  solution  joins  onto  the  no-recombination  solution. 

Joining  onto  the  Cubic. 

We  have  seen  that  the  solution  joins  onto  the  no  recombination  solu- 
tion, in  the  region  where  particle  flow  is  by  diffusion  so  that  the  no 
recombination  solution  has  the  form  s  =  A  —  (.r/2L,:)  .  This  is  readily 
transformed  to  the  form  (4.6)  with 

^  =  So  (l  -  ^)  (4.7) 

Thus  the  one  arbitrary  parameter  so  in  the  recombination  solution 
determines  the  parameter  A  in  the  cubic  that  the  recombination  solution 
approaches.  Since  the  maximum  value  of  So  under  reverse  bias  is  unity, 
the  maximum  value  of  /I  is  f .  Negative  values  of  A  correspond  to  solu- 
tions where  recombination  is  always  negligible. 

The  s  versus  x  Curve 

To  find  s  versus  x  we  integrate  (4.5).  There  is  one  constant  of  integra- 
tion, which  is  fixed  by  the  choice  of  x  =  0.  We  have  taken  a:  =  0  at  the 
point  where  dE/dx  =  ds/dx  =  0  on  the  cubic.  To  make  the  recombina- 
tion solution  join  the  cubic  we  choose  the  constant  of  integration  so  that 
the  recombination  solution  extrapolates  to  s  =  0  at  {x/2Lif  =  A.  Then 

^  =  Vl-^f    /„,  f     ,   ,=^  (4.8) 

2Li  2    Jo    v3(so  —  s)  —  (so'  —  s^) 

which  can  be  expressed  in  terms  of  elliptic  integrals. 


12G2       THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL    JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


1.0 


0.9 


0.8 


0.7 


0.6 


0.5 


0.4 


0.3 


0.2 


0.1 


^ 

"^ 

^ 

v,^ 



■"--'^ 

So=0.9  5 

X 

^ 

^ 

0.5 

\ 

kk 

^v 

\ 

\ 

■ 

— 

0.25 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\, 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

V 

-0.8  -0.7    -0.6    -0.5   -0.4  -0.3  -0.2  -0.1  0        0.1        0.2      0.3      0.4     0.5      0.6      0.7      0.8      0.9 

X/2Ll 

Fig.  5  —  Variation  of  s  =  -plni  =  n/n;  in  the  range  where  recombination  is 
important. 

Deep  in  an  infinitely  long  intrinsic  region  the  carrier  densities  ap- 
proach their  normal  values  n  =  7?  =  n,  ,  or  s  =  1.  Putting  So  =  1  in 
(4.8),  we  find  that  as  s  approaches  So  =  \-,x  becomes  infinite.  This  will 
be  the  solution  for  a  simple  intrinsic-extrinsic  junction.  Fig.  5  is  a  plot 
of  s  versus  x  for  various  values  of  So  .  The  dashed  curves  represent  the 
corresponding  no-recombination  solution  s  =  ^  —  {x/2LiY. 


The  IP  Junction 

It  remains  to  find  the  position  of  the  IP  boundary.  We  now  show  that 
if  recombination  is  unimportant  at  the  junction,  so  that  the  solution 
joins  onto  a  no-recombination  solution,  then  the  position  of  the  junction 
is  at  a;  =  L  where  L  is  the  effective  length  of  current  generation  and 
a*  =  0  is  the  point  where  dE/dx  =  ds/dx  =  0  on  the  no-recombination 
solution  (which  of  course  will  not  be  valid  at  x  =  0).  The  proof  is  as 
follows:  From  the  definition  (4.1)  of  L  and  (4.2) 


L  =  /;"(l-./,)rfx  =  2L/£'|,(g-.)*- 


=  2Lv 


_dx  \E{' 


(4.9) 


If  the  boundary  comes  where  recombination  is  negligible  so  that 
{E/Eif  -  s  =    (a-/2L,)'   -  A,  then   (4.9)  gives  Xj,   =   L.  Physically 


THEORY   OF  THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1263 

this  means  that  the  amount  of  recombination  in  the  interval  from 
X  =  0  to  a;  =  L  is  just  equal  to  the  excess  amount  of  generation  in  the 
interval  from  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region  to  x  =  0. 

If  the  applied  reverse  bias  is  less  than  a  few  kT/q  then  recombination  is 
important  even  at  the  junction  and  there  is  no  joining  onto  a  no-recom- 
bination solution.  In  this  case  (4.9)  says  that  for  a  given  choice  of  cur- 
rent (and  hence  of  L)  the  boundary  comes  where 

Example.  Fig.  6,  which  we  discussed  briefly  in  Section  III,  is  a  plot 
of  the  field  and  carrier  distributions  for  L  =  2Li  and  So  =  0.95,  for  which 
A  =  0.665.  The  hole  and  electron  densities  were  found  from  (3.7)  and 
p  -{-  71  =  2niS  where  s  is  found  from  Fig.  5.  When  s  approaches  So  (4.8) 
for  X  versus  s  takes  the  simple  form 

•^  '^i    So  S  /'lIlN 

ZLi  1  —  So^ 

This  will  be  accurate  when  So  —  s  is  small  compared  to  1/so  —  So .  We 
have  used  (4.11)  to  evaluate  the  s  versus  x  curve  beyond  the  range  of 
the  So  =  0.95  curve  in  Fig.  5. 

It  is  seen  that  the  recombination  solution  in  Fig.  6  joins  the  cubic 
in  the  range  where  n  and  p  are  still  almost  equal. 

Variable  Lifetime. 

Finally  consider  the  general  case  where  the  variation  in  r  with  car- 
rier density  cannot  be  neglected.  Then,  with  n  =  p  =  UiS,  (2.15)  be- 
comes r  =  To  +  (tj  —  To)s  and  Li"  in  (4.4)  is  replaced  by  Dt[1  +  (tj/tq  — 
l)s]  where  Tj/tq  is  given  by  (2.17).  The  more  general  form  of  (4.4)  can 
be  solved  graphically  after  one  integration.  The  solution  will  join  onto  a 
cubic  if  (ri/ro  —  l)s  becomes  small  compared  to  unity  before  space 
charge  becomes  important.  This  will  be  so  if  (t,/to  —  Vf'I/aEi  is  small 
compared  to  unity. 

V.    THE   JUNCTION   SOLUTION 

In  this  section  we  consider  the  solution  near  the  junctions,  where 
the  assumption  /  =  usE  breaks  down.  We  shall  deal  with  reverse  biases 
of  at  least  a  few  kT/q  so  that  recombination  is  negligible  at  the  junctions. 
The  junction  solution  will  therefore  join  onto  the  no-recombination 
solution.  We  shall  use  the  cubic  solution  in  the  no  recombination  region. 

Again  it  is  convenient  to  use  dimensionless  variables  with  Ei  as  the 


1264       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


1.0 


10 


10 


10 


.,     . 

1 

8 

-^=-=s 

-^ 

CHARGE 
NEUTRALITYy 

\ 

f- 

-1 

\ 

8 
6 

4 

2 
-? 

\ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

8 
6 

4 

2 

J 

\ 

./ 

\ 

CENTER    OF 

•^^ 

CUBIC 

^ 

,'V 

7 

pV 

U-' 

X  =  Xi. 

) 

'~~~~ 



;^ 

y 

Pi 

j 

^    J 
El 

il 

-3 

n 
1 

-1.2  -1.0  -0.8         -0.6        -0.4        -0.2  0 

x/2Li, 


0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1.0 


Fig.  6  —  Field  and  carrier  distributions  for  L  =  2Lt  and  A  =  0.665  (so  =  0.95). 


unit  field,  2Lj  as  unit  length  and  (tEi  as  unit  current.  Then  on  the  cubic 
s  =  //£",  and  E^  —  I  IE  =  x  —  A.  The  current  is  related  to  L  by 
/  =  '\/2£L  where  the  dimensionless  £  is  of  the  order^of  10~  for  ger- 
manium at  room  temperature.  Substituting  the  exact  no-recombination 
solution  E'  —  s  =  .r'  —  A  into  the  solution  (2.6),  or  (3.8),  for  the  current 
gives  the  second  order  differential  equation 


EJ 


E{x'  -  A)  -  I 


(5.1) 


for  E  as  a  function  of  .t.  The  two  boundary  conditions  are  as  follows:  At 
X  =  0,  clE/dx  =  0  by  symmetry.  At  the  IP  junction  the  carrier  concen- 
tration must  rise  and  approach  that  in  the  normal  P  material.  For  a 
strongly  extrinsic  P  region  the  normal  hole  concentration  P  is  large 
compared  to  both  iii  and  the  electron  concentration.  Thus  s  must  in- 
crease and  approach  P/2w,  »  1  as  we  approach  the  P  region.  Clearly 
the  cubic  cannot  satisfy  this  requirement.  On  the  cubic  the  maximum 
value  of  .s  comes  at  x  =  0  and  is  less  than  unity.  As  we  approach  the  June- 


THEORY    OF   THE    SWEPT    INTRINSIC    STRUCTURE  1265 

tion  E  increases  so  s  =  I/E  must  decrease.  Thus  the  correct  solution 
must  break  away  from  the  cubic  near  the  junction. 

Instability  of  the  Solution 

Equation  (5.1)  has  two  Hmiting  forms  and  makes  a  rather  abrupt 
transition  between  them.  Over  most  of  the  intrinsic  region,  the  quantity 
in  brackets  [£'s  —  /]  =  [E{E^  —  x^  -\-  A)  —  I]  ahnost  vanishes.  It  differs 
from  zero  just  enough  that  when  multiplied  by  the  very  large  factor 
£^  ;^  10*^  it  gives  the  correct  second  derivative  of  E.  In  Section  III  we 
derived  an  upper  limit  on  the  small  deviation  bE  from  the  cubic  required 
to  satisfy  the  differential  equation.  If  E  deviates  from  the  cubic  by  more 
than  this  small  amount,  then  the  second  derivative  of  E  becomes  too 
large.  This  increases  the  deviation  from  the  cubic,  which  further  in- 
creases the  second  derivative  and  so  on.  E  and  s  rapidly  approach 
infinity  in  a  short  distance.  This,  of  course,  is  the  reciuired  behavior  at 
the  junction.  The  rapid  increase  in  s  makes  it  possible  for  s  to  approach 
P/2ni . 

In  Section  III  we  showed  that  there  is  a  solution  to  the  differential 
equation  that  lies  within  a  small  interval  bE  from  the  cubic.  Suppose  we 
try  to  solve  (5.1)  graphically  or  on  a  machine  starting  at  x  =  0.  There 
are  two  boundary  conditions:  By  symmetry  dE/dx  =  0  at  x  =  0.  We 
choose  for  E(0)  a  value  somewhere  in  the  interval  8E(0).  The  resulting 
solution  will  not  long  remain  in  the  interval  8E(x).  In  fact  there  is  only 
one  choice  of  E(0)  for  which  the  solution  remains  close  to  the  cubic 
from  .T  =  0  to  a;  =  oc  .  For  any  other  E(0)  the  solution  would  remain 
close  to  the  cubic  for  a  certain  distance  and  then  abruptly  become  un- 
stable and  both  E  and  s  approach  infinity.  £"(0)  must  be  so  chosen  that 
the  solution  becomes  unstable  and  E  and  s  become  large  at  the  junction. 
However  it  is  impractical  to  set  E(0)  on  a  machine  with  sufficient  ac- 
curacy to  insure  that  the  solution  will  remain  stable  for  a  reasonable 
distance.  A  more  practical  procedure  is  to  find  a  solution  which  holds 
near  the  junction  and  joins  the  cubic  to  a  solution  in  the  adjacent 
extrinsic  region. 

Zero  Bias 

It  may  be  helpful  to  approach  the  junction  solution  by  reviewing  the 
simple  case  of  an  IP  junction  under  zero  bias.  Both  charge  and  particle 
flow  vanish.  The  vanishing  of  particle  flow  means  that  in  the  intrinsic 
region  E'  —  s  is  constant,  (2.7).  Since  E  =  0  and  s  =  1  in  the  normal 
intrinsic  material,  it  follows  that  E^  —  s  =  1.  With  7  =  0  the  equation 


1266       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

for  current  becomes 


sE 

£2 


E^  +  E 
£2 


(5.2) 


This  can  be  integrated  at  once.  The  boundary  conditions  are  dE/dx  =  01 
when  E  =  0  and  E  =  Ej  at  x  =  L;  the  field  Ej  at  the  IP  junction  will 
be  determined  by  joining  the  solutions  for  the  /  and  P  regions.  The 
solution  can  best  be  expressed  by  parametric  equations  giving  x  and  the 
potential  V  as  functions  of  E. 


L  —  X 


£ 


J  E 


dE 


=  £ 


Vj  -  F  =  £ 


E 


E  Vl  +  E'-/2 

dE  2kT 


csch' 


E 

V2 


—  csch 


-i^j 


Vl  +  E-'/2 


Q    L 


sinh" 


1l 

V2 


sinh' 


— 1 


V2j 

E  - 

V2_ 


(5.3) , 
(5.4) 


where  we  have  used  the  relation  between  dimensionless  quantities 
£  =  ■\/2kT/q,  which  follows  from  (2.8)  with  Ei  =  1.  It  will  be  more 
convenient  to  express  voltages  in  terms  of  kT/q  rather  than  in  terms  of 
the  unit  voltage  2EiLi  ;  then  the  ratio  qV/kT  is  independent  of  the 
units.  For  convenience  we  take  the  voltage  as  increasing  in  going  toward 
the  IP  junction  with  V  =  0  in  the  normal  P  material.  The  voltage  Vj 
at  the  junction  is  found  by  joining  solutions. 

On  the  P  side,  let  the  excess  acceptor  density  be  P.  Adding  the  term 
—  aP  to  the  right  hand  side  of  Poisson's  (2.1),  and  proceeding  as  before 
we  have,  instead  of  (2.5) 


—  s 


qT 
'"  kT, 


=  J  =  0 


where  Sp  =  P/2ni .  We  shall  assume  that  the  P  region  is  strongly  ex- 
trinsic so  that  n  <K  p.  Then  s  =  Sp  in  the  normal  p  material,  where 
j^  =   V  =  0.  Hence 


E' 


'qV 


'"'"Vkr     \ 


(5.5) 


In  the  intrinsic  material  the  corresponding  solution  is  -E""  —  s  =  —  1 . 
Since  both  E  and  s  are  continuous  at  the  junction,  qVj/kT  =  1  —  1/Sp 
where  l/sp  can  be  neglected.  Thus  i?/  =  Sj  =  Sp  exp  [  —  (qVj/kT)]  = 
Sp/e  where  e  =  2.72  is  the  base  of  the  natural  logarithms. 

Knowing  Ej  we  can  find  the  field  and  potential  distributions  in  the 
intrinsic  material  from  (5.3)  and  (5.4). 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1267 

Reverse  Bias 

Now  in  the  intrinsic  region,  E^  —  s  =  x"^  —  A.  Let  Ec  be  the  value 
of  E  at  the  junction  as  given  by  the  cubic,  and  let  Sc  =  I/Ec  be  the 
corresponding  value  of  s.  Then  at  the  junction  x^  —  A  =  E^  —  Sc  .  In 
the  P  material  equation  (5.5)  will  still  be  a  good  approximation  near 
the  junction,  where  the  additional  terms  arising  from  the  flow  will  be 
negligible.  Joining  the  solutions  for  the  /  and  P  regions  and  neglecting 
Sc  in  comparison  with  Sp  gives 

^-  =  1  +  ^ 

fC  i  Sp 

Again  using  sy  =  Sp  exp  [—  {jqV j/kT)]  we  have 

Ef  =  E;  +  Sp  exp  [-  (1  +  E^/sp)]  (5.6) 

■In  most  practical  cases  Ec   will  be  small  compared  to  Sp  =  P/2ni  so 
Ej  will  be  the  same  as  for  zero  bias. 

Junction  Solution 

We  now  consider  an  approximate  solution  that  joins  smoothly  onto 
the  cubic  and  has  the  required  behavior  at  the  junction.  Let  x  =  Xo 
be  the  point  where  this  solution  is  to  join  the  cubic.  Then  in  (5.1)  x^ 
must  lie  between  .To  and  L  .  We  can  obtain  two  limiting  forms  of  the 
solution  by  giving  x  the  two  constant  values,  Xo  and  L  respectively. 
It  will  be  best  to  take  x  =  Xo  since  in  practical  cases  the  x~  term  is  not 
important  except  near  the  point  where  the  junction  solution  joins  the 
cubic.  In  all  cases  the  uncertainty  due  to  taking  x^  =  constant  can  be 
estimated  by  comparing  the  solutions  for  x  =  Xo  and  x  =  L. 

With  X  constant,  (5.1)  can  easily  be  integrated.  The  two  boundary 
conditions  are  (a)  E  =  Ej  at  x  =  L,  where  Ej  is  given  by  (5.6),  and  (b) 
to  insure  a  smooth  joining,  the  slope  at  x  =  Xo  must  be  the  same  as  that 
of  the  cubic,  namely 


2a;o 


\dx  /o       2Eo  +  I/Eo' 
The  first  integration  of  (5.1)  with  x  =  .To  gives 


(5.7) 


'dEY  ^  (cIEY       2^ 
,rf.T  /         \dx  A       £- 


^  -  ^  (Eo'  -  I/Eo)  -  IE 
4  Z 


(5.8) 
where  (dE/dx)  is  given  by  (5.7)  and  Ed^  —  I/Eo  =  Xo  —  A.  The  E  versus 


12G8      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


X  curve  can  now  bo  found  from  (5.8)  and 

X    -   Xo    =  I  -r 

L  - 


0  \dx/ 


=/:©"'- 


(5.9) 


In  general  we  will  be  intrested  in  cases  where  the  junction  solution 
holds  over  a  length  L  —  .To  that  is  small  compared  to  L,  so  we  can  take 
.To  =  L  in  (5.7).  It  will  also  be  valid  to  let  Eo  in  (5.7)  and  (5.8)  be  the 
value  Ec  on  the  cubic  at  x  =  L.  Putting  Ec  =  Eo  in  equation  (5.6)  then 
gives  Ej  in  terms  of  Eo  and  Sp  =  P/2ni ,  where  P  is  the  majority  carrier 
concentration  in  the  extrinsic  region.  In  what  follows  we  shall  use  these 
approximations.  It  will  be  convenient  to  express  .To  =  L  in  (5.7)  in 
terms  of  /  using  /  =  \/2Z/<£.  We  continue  to  use  dimensionless  quan- 
tities with  El ,  2Li  and  aEi  as  the  units  of  field,  length  and  current  re- 
spectively, and  2LiEi  as  the  unit  of  voltage.  In  general  however  we  can 
express  voltages  in  terms  of  kT/g. 

When  Eo^  is  either  large  or  small  compared  to  /,  the  junction  solution 
takes  a  simple  form  and  the  field  and  potential  distributions  can  be 
found  analytically.  We  next  consider  two  approximations  that  hold  in 
those  two  cases  respectively.  Relatively  good  agreement  between  the 
two  solutions  at  Eo  =  I  indicates  that  each  solution  may  be  used  up  to 
this  point. 

Case  of  Eo  Large  Compared  to  I 
From  (5.7)  to  (5.9) 


X  —  Xo  =   -x/ScC   / 

J  E 


0    l_ 


3\2 


+  {E'  -  Eo') 


-1/2 


dE 


(5.10) 


This  can  be  solved  in  the  following  two  overlapping  ranges  where  the 
integrand  has  a  simple  form: 

Range  1.  Here  E  —  Eo'is  small  compared  to  2Eo ,  so  (5.10)  becomes 


£ 


X  —  Xo  = 


\/2Ec 


sinh 


-1 


\e  -  Eo)  ?f-'j 


(5.11) 


Since  E  and  Eo  are  almost  equal,  we  have  for  the  voltage  drop  in  this 
range 

V  -  Vo  =  Eo(x  -  Xo)  (5.12) 

Range  2.  Here  E'^  —  Eo'  is  large  compared  to  2(£L/Eof,  so  (5.10) 
gives 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE 


1269 


dE 


L-x=V2S^r^ 


En 


^2£  ^etnh- i  -  ctnh- i")     (5.13) 


£"0 


En 


En 


From  Eq  ^  /  it  follows  that  Ranges  1  and  2  overlap.  By  joining  the 
two  solutions  in  the  overlap  region,  the  solution  in  Range  2  can  be 
written  as 


£ 


X   —   Xq   = 


\/2Ec 


(n 


8En^  E    —    En 


I    E  -\-  Eo 


(5.14) 


Putting  E  =  Ej  in  (5.14)  gives  the  distance  over  which  the  junction 
solution  holds.  In  general  we  will  be  interested  in  cases  where  Ej  is 
large  compared  to  Eq  so  (5.14)  becomes 


L  —  .To  _  3  (n2zQ 
I  2     2o 


(5.15) 


where  I  =  \^&/I^'^  and  as  before  2o  =  Eq/V^.  In  conventional  units 


I  =  2L 


L2 


(5.16) 


Fig.  7  is  a  plot  of  (L  —  Xd)/1  versus  Zq  .  In  germanium  at  room  tempera- 
ture £,Li  will  be  around  10~  cm.  Thus  the  junction  solution  will  hold 
over  a  region  that  is  small  compared  to  L  if  L  is  large  compared  to 
3  X  10"^  cm. 

Again  it  is  convenient  to  use  the  relation  &  =   '\/2kT/q  to  express 
the  voltage  in  terms  of  kT/q. 

'")       (3.17) 


Je         \dx/  q 


Ej"  —  Eo 


T?2  TP  2 


By  joining  the  two  solutions  in  the  overlap  region,  the  voltage  in  Range 
2  can  be  expressed  as 


kT 


2Eo\  ^g> 


e;-) 


(5.18) 


Setting  V  =  V j  and  E  =  Ej  in  (5.18)  gives  the  total  voltage  drop  in 
the  region  where  the  junction  solution  holds.  Let  AF  be  the  difference 
between  Fy  —  Fo  and  the  built  in  voltage  drop  at  the  junction.  Then 
substituting  (5.6)  with  Ec  —  Eq  into  (5.18)  and  subtracting  the  built  in 
drop  we  have  for  AF, 


AT  =  ^ 


9   L 


(n 


En 


Eo_ 

s 


p  -i 


(5.19) 


1270       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 
5 


o 
f<   0.5 


0.2 


O.I 


0.05 


'! 


0.01 


0.1 


1.0 
20 


10 


100 


Fig.  7  —  Variation  of  (L  —  Xo)/(  with  Zo  . 

I/Eo  is  equal  to  the  value  of  s  on  the  cubic  at  x  =  L.  For  positive  values 
of  A  the  maximum  value  of  E^/I  is  L/I  =  l/\/2£  as  can  be  seen  from 
the  cubic.  In  germanium  at  room  temperature  <£  is  about  10~  (for 
2Li  =  unit  length)  so  the  reverse  bias  produces  an  additional  voltage 
drop  in  the  junction  region  equal  to  about  IkT/q.  For  negative  values 
of  A  the  additional  voltage  drop  near  the  junction  would  be  higher. 

Comparing  (5.3)  and  (5.13)  we  see  that  the  junction  solution  reduces 
to  the  zero  bias  solution  when  £""  is  large  compared  to  Eo"  +  2.  In  this 
case  both  solutions  have  the  simple  form 


(5.20) 


and 


Vi-  V 


Q  E 


(5.21) 


Case  of  Eo   Small  Compared  to  I 

Now  from  (5.7)  and  (5.8)  with  xo  =  L  =  I\/2£,  we  have 


£' 


2Fj  +  {E-  Eof  (^  +  ^' 


(5.22) 


THEORY    OF   THE    SWEPT   IXTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1271 

Again  there  are  t^^■o  o\-erIapping  ranges  where  the  solution  has  a  simple 
form : 

Range  1.  Here  E'  is  small  compared  to  21 /Ea  .  This  will  be  so  even 
when  E  becomes  large  compared  to  Eq  .  Setting  Ci  =  2Eo/I  and  y  = 
E  —  Eo  in  equation  (5.22)  and  integrating  gives 


X  ^0    —     ^    /\/    ~~r~ 


E,  r^"^"         dy 


I   X  Vci^  +  If 


(5.23) 


^  ,/Eo    .  ,  -1  /E  -  Eo\ 

and 

V  -  Vo 

IT       /9F         (5.24) 

=  ^  y  Y  (Vci^  +  (^  -  E,r-  -  ri)  +  2Eo(x  -  .To) 

Range  2.  Here  E  is  large  compared  to  Eq  .  It  follows  from  Eq    «  I 
that  E  is  also  large  compared  to  Ci  .  Setting  ci  =  21 /Eq  we  have 

•^'-  dE 


L  -  X  =   V2£  /      f 
Jr    e 


E  VWT~c? 


Joining  (5.21)  and  (5.23)  where  they  overlap  we  have  in  range  (2) 


X  —  Xo  =  £  a/  ~  hi  I  ^3 


'Mf. 


E 


C2 


+  \/c.^  +  E' 


(5.26) 


Putting  X  =  L  and  /i"  =  Ej  in  (5.26)  gives  the  length  f,  —  .r„  in  which 
the  junction  solution  holds.  If  Ej  is  lai'ge  compared  io  c.> ,  then 

^=y/|(«i  (5.27) 

where  as  before  Zo  =  Eo/I^'^  and  Z  is  given  by  (5.16).  Fig.  7  is  a  plot  of 
(L  —  Xo)/l  versus  zo .  The  two  approximations  (5.15)  and  (5.27)  for 
Zn  «  1  and  Zo  ^  I  respectively  are  shown  dashed.  Both  become  inaccu- 
rate as  they  are  extended  toward  zo  =  I.  The  point  at  ^o  =  1  was  ob- 
tained graphically.  Each  approximation  is  in  error  by  about  28  per  cent 
here.  The  error  will  decrease  as  each  approximation  is  (wtendod  away 
from  00  =  1  toward  its  range  of  validity. 
The  voltage  in  Range  2  is  given  by 


1272       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    195G 

Vj  —  V  =  Sinn     — ^  —  sinh     -  (o.28> 

q   L         C2  C2J 

or  again  joining  (5.28)  to  the  solutions  in  Range  1  we  have  in  Range  2 

V  -  7o  =  --  sinh"'  -  +  2Eo{x  -  Xo)  (5.29)1 

q  C2 

The  total  voltage  drop  in  the  junction  can  be  found  by  setting  V  =  Vy' 
and  E  =  Ej  in  (5.29).  The  term  2Eo(L  -  xo)  will  be  negligible.  Wheni 
E'^  is  large  compared  to  Co"  +  2  the  junction  solution  reduces  to  the 
zero  current  solution  as  can  be  seen  by  comparing  (5.3)  and  (5.25). 
Then  the  solution  has  the  simple  form  (5.20)  and  (5.21).  Ej  will  always 
be  large  compared  to  C2 .  (Ef  is  appi'oximately  Sp/e  and  Co"  =  2so  where  1 
So  is  the  value  of  s  where  the  junction  solution  joins  the  cubic.)  Thus  the 
difference  AV  between  Vj  —  T^j  and  the  built  in  voltage  is 

AF  =  --fn^  (5.30) 

q       I 

Example.  Fig.  8  shows  the  field  distribution  near  the  IP  junction 
for  the  case  L  =  2Li  and  /I  =  f ,  for  which  the  intrinsic  region  is  in- 
finitely long.  The  field  distribution  near  the  junction,  however,  will  he 
indistinguishable  from  that  for  A  =  0.6G5,  or  ,%  =  0.95,  for  which  the; 
intrinsic  region  is  about  twice  the  effective  length  of  current  generation. 
We  have  taken  Ej  =  30,  which  corresponds  to  an  excess  acceptor  den- 
sity P  =  4.7  X  10'  Ui  in  the  P  region.  Over  the  range  where  the  junc- 
tion solution  holds  the  cubic  gives  an  almost  constant  field  E  =  En  =  Ec . 
The  junction  solution  goes  from  the  cubic  to  the  zero  bias  solution  in  a  , 
distance  of  the  order  of  the  Debye  length.  The  sum  of  the  built  in  volt- 
age and  the  voltage  derived  from  the  cubic  differ  from  the  correct  voltage 
by  the  order  of  £Ei  or  about  kT/q.  The  total  voltage  is  about  0.3  EiLi , 
which  would  be  about  11  volts  in  germanium  at  room  temperature. 

VI.    GENERAL   CASE,    UNEQUAL   MOBILITIES 

This  Section  deals  with  the  general  case  where  the  ratio  of  the  hole 
and  electron  mobilities  is  arbitrary.  The  procedure  is  similar  to  that 
used  in  the  preceding  Sections.  Many  of  the  results  for  6  =  1  are  useful 
in  the  present,  more  general,  case.  We  shall  deal  first  with  the  no-recom- 
bination case  and  again  find  that  E  is  given  by  a  cubic.  However,  the 
field  distribution  is  no  longer  symmetrical  and  the  coefficient  of  the  I/E 
term  in  the  cubic  is  a  linear  function  of  x  instead  of  a  constant.  The 
differential  equation   foi'  .s  in   the  recombination  region  remains  un- 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE 

30 

20 


10 
8 

6 
5 


1273 


_E_ 
E, 


1.0 
0.8 

0.6 
0.5 
0.4 

0.3 
0.2 


0.1 


E  =  E 

J 

- 

- 

ll 

h 

/ 

li 
1 1 

1 

- 

X  =  Xo 

// 

/ 

^ 

_^^^ 

^ 

1 

; 

/ 

-o— 

SS=^. 

. 

——— 

-T" 
f 

-( 

E-Ec-ho 

CUBIC 

1 
1 

1 
1 

t 

/zero 

/    BIAS 

/ 

/ 
1 

1 

/ 

/ 
/ 
/ 

X-L 


Fig.  8  ■ —  Field  Distribution  near  the  IP  Junction  for  L  =  2L;  and  A  =  f. 

changed.  It  is  no  longer  so  that  charge  diffusion  can  be  neglected  except 
near  the  junctions.  However,  there  is  a  linear  combination  of  Jp  and  J„ 
in  which  the  diffusion  term  is  negligible  except  near  the  junctions. 

Basic  Relations 

The  equations  are  the  two  continuity  (2.9)  and  Poisson's  (2.1).  The 
formulas  for  g  —  r  remain  unchanged,  since  they  involve  only  the 
statistics  of  recombination  and  are  independent  of  mobility.  The  hole 
and  electron  currents  are  given  by  (2.2)  with  b  arbitrary.  Eciuation  (2.2) 
for  Jp  in  terms  of  E,  p  and  n  remains  unchanged.  Now  ./„/6  has  the  same 


1274       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

form  as  J„  had  for  the  b  =  1  case.  It  is  therefore  desirable  to  deal  with 
the  fictitious  carrier  flow  J p  +  J„/b  and  the  ficfitious  current  q{Jp  — 
Jn/b)  since  these  have  the  same  form  in  terms  of  E  and  s  =  (w  +  p)/2ni 
as  J  and  /  had  for  b  =  1.  Thus 


bj        1  +  6"  L""        ™   dx 


'  dx^] 


Es  -  £'~\  (6.2) 


where  Ei  and  £  have  the  same  meaning  as  before  and  the  conductivit}' 
of  intrinsic  material  is  noAv  a  =  qniij.(l  +  b).  As  before  D  and  fj.  are  re- 
spectively the  diffusion  constant  and  mobility  for  holes.  Equations  (6.1) 
and  (6.2)  reduce  respecti\Tly  to  (2.7)  for  ./  and  (2.6)  for  I  =  cj{Jp  —  /„) 
where  6=1. 

When  the  flow  is  by  pure  diffusion,  the  holes  and  electrons  diffuse  "in 
parallel"  so  the  effective  diffusion  constant  is  the  reciprocal  of  the  average 
of  the  reciprocal  hole  and  electron  diffusion  constants.  Hence  the  effective 
diffusion  length  is  given  by 

Lf  =  Dr  ^^  (6.3) 

We  continue  to  let  2L  =  I/qg  be  the  effective  length  of  current  genera- 
tion; again  it  is  the  actual  length  for  the  no  recombination  case.  Let  x,, 
and  Xp  be  the  coordinates  of  the  AU  and  IP  junctions  respectively. 
Since  the  problem  is  not  symmetrical  we  will  not  take  a'  =  0  in  the  center 
of  the  intrinsic  I'ogion  even  for  the  no-recombination  case. 

No-Recoinbiualiun  Case 

Setting  r  =  0  we  can  immediately  integrate  the  continuity  equa+ ' 

dJp  _  dJn  _ 
dx         dx 

subject  to  the  boundary  conditions: 

at  the  iV/ junction,  x  =  rc„  ,         Jp  =  0,  Jn  =  ~Uq 

at  the  IP  junction,  x  =  Xp  ,         Jp  =  I/(j,         Jn  =  0 

The  result  is  Jp  =  g(x  —  .r„)  and  J„  =  g{x  —  Xp).  This  agrees  with  /  = 
q(Jp  —  J„)  =  "^qgL  since  2L  =  Xp  —  x„  is  the  length  of  the  intrinsic 
region,  which,  for  no-recombjnation,  is  also  the  effective  length  of  cur- 


I  THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1275 

i|  fent  generation.  It  will  be  convenient  to  choose  a;  =  0  so  that  .t„  = 
—Xp/h.  Then  the  origin  is  nearer  to  the  NI  junction  for  6  >  1.  Now 
from  this  and  the  boundary  conditions  (6.4)  and  I  =  2qgL  we  have  the 
positions  of  the  junctions: 

L        1  +  6'  L        1  +  6  ^^'^^ 

A.S  before,  the  junctions  are  at  .r  =  ±  L  for  6=1. 

We  can  now  find  the  fictitious  carrier  flow  Jp  +  J„/6  and  the  fictitious 
current  q{Jp  —  Jn/i>)  as  functions  of  x. 

■fp+T=  (M^)  !'^  (6.6) 

where  the  dimensionless  parameter  j8  =  (6^  —  l)/46.  Thus  the  fictitious 
current  q(Jp  —  J„/b)  is  equal  to  the  actual  current  times  a  linear  func- 
tion of  X.  This  function  is  always  positive  and  varies  from  a  minimum  of 
1/6  to  a  maximum  of  1. 
Combining  (6.6)  with  (6.1)  and  integrating  gives  the  equation 

that  we  had  before.  Now,  however,  E  is  not  a  minimum  at  the  same  point 
where  s  is  a  maximum.  As  before,  when  recombination  is  negligible 
throughout  all  of  the  intrinsic  region,  A  determines  the  voltage;  and, 
when  recombination  is  important  over  part  of  the  region,  A  determines 
both  the  voltage  and  the  length  of  the  intrinsic  region  Xp  —  Xn  >  2L  = 
\/o 

'  ibining  (6.7)  with  (6.2)  gives 


(6.9) 


which  is  similar  to  the  previous  (3.6)  except  that  /  is  nuiltiplied  by  the 
factor  1  +  j3.r/L,  which  ^'aries  from  1  +  1/6  to  1  +  6.  The  same  argu- 
ments used  in  Section  V  apply  here  and  show  that  the  second  term  in 
brackets  (the  diffusion  term)  can  be  neglected  except  near  the  junctions. 
In  other  words,  although  /  is  always  part  drift  and  pai't  diflusion, 
7(1  +  ^x/L)  is  approximately  pure  drift  except  at  the  junctions. 

Eliminating  s  between  (6.9)  and  (6.8)  and  neglecting  the  diffusion 


127G       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956  l! 

term  in  (6.9)  gives  the  cubic  equation  ' 

for  the  field  distribution. 

In  germanium,  where  b  =  2.1,  /?  =  0.406,  Xp  =  1.35L  and  x„  = 
—  0.65L.  The  coefficient  of  I/aEi  therefore  varies  from  1.47  to  3.10,  or 
by  a  factor  of  a  Httle  more  than  2.  This  will  introduce  some  asymmetry 
into  the  E  versus  x  curve  in  the  low  field  region  where  the  fictitious  car- 
rier flow  Jp  +  Jn/b  is  by  diffusion.  It  is  evident  that,  as  the  voltage  in-i 
creases,  the  field  versus  x  curve  becomes  increasingly  symmetrical  about 
the  x  =  0  point;  so  the  effect  of  having  b  9^  1  is  simply  to  shift  the 
field  distribution  along  the  x  axis. 

Recombination  -s 

The  arguments  of  section  4  again  apply.  Where  recombination  is  im- 
portant, n  —  p  is  small  compared  to  n  -\-  p,  so  g  —  r  =  g(l  —  s^).  The 
diffusion  term  dominates  in  the  fictitious  particle  flow  Jp  +  Jn/b;  that 
is,  E^/Ei  is  small  compared  to  s,  so  (6.1)  becomes 


•^=  -2n,D^ 
0  ax 


Jp  +-^=  -^mD"^ 


The  continuity  equations  give 


So  again  we  have 


(fs^^       (1  -  /) 
dx^  2Li2 


(6.11) 


The  solution  joins  the  no  recombination  solution  where  s  =  A  — 
{x/2Li)".  Therefore  A  is  again  related  to  Sq  ,  the  maximum  s,  by  ^  =  :j 
So(l  —  si/Z)  and  the  s  versus  x  curve  is  given  by  (4.8)  and  is  symmetrica] 
about  the  point  where  s  is  a  maximum.  When  the  recombination  solu- 
tion joins  onto  no-recombination  solutions,  there  will  be  a  difi'orent 
no-recombination  solution  on  each  side  of  the  recombination  region. 
The  junctions  will  be  at  the  points  Xp  and  .r„  on  the  respective  no-recom- 
bination solutions.  The  length  of  the  intrinsic  region  will  not  be  Xp  — 
Xn  =  2L  since  the  x  =  0  points  are  different  on  the  two  no-recombination 
solutions  and  are  separated  by  a  region  of  maximimi  recombination. 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT   INTRINSIC   STRUCTURE  1277 

To  find  E  when  s  is  known  we  express  the  current  I  =  qiJp  —  Jn) 
in  terms  of  s  and  E.  Since  w  —  p  is  small  compared  to  n  +  p,  we  set 
/;  =  p  =  sUi  in  (2.2)  and  obtain 


I  = 


[  j^       1  -  h  kT  dsl  ,„  ,„v 

Thus  the  current  contains  both  a  drift  and  a  diffusion  term.  This  is  to  be 
expected  for  unequal  mobilities.  When  holes  and  electrons  have  the 
same  concentration  gradient,  the  electrons,  which  have  the  higher  dif- 
fusion constant,  diffuse  faster  than  the  holes;  hence  the  diffusion  gives  a 
net  current.  It  is  seen  that  in  the  recombination  region  the  total  carrier 
concentration  has  a  symmetrical  distribution  about  the  point  where  it 
is  a  maximum  but  the  field  remains  unsymmetrical. 

Junction  Solution 

When  (Eo/Eif  is  large  compared  to  I/cEi  the  junction  solution  is 
independent  of  6;  so  the  solution  obtained  in  Section  V  is  valid.  In  all 
cases  the  junction  solution  can  be  found  using  the  method  of  Section  V. 
The  effect  of  h  will  be  small  over  most  of  the  range  where  the  junction 
solution  holds  because  the  concentration  of  one  type  of  carrier  will  be 
negligible.  To  be  exact,  /  in  (5.8)  should  be  multiplied  by  the  factor 
(1  +  ^Xo/L),  which  can  be  taken  to  be  (1  +  b)/2b  at  the  NI  junction 
and  (1  -f  b)/2  at  the  IP  junction.  Instead  of  equation  (5.7)  we  have 

as  can  be  seen  by  differentiating  (6.10)  with  Ei  =  2Li  =  o-  =1. 

VII.  EFFECT  OF  FIXED  CHARGE 

This  section  will  deal  briefly  with  the  case  where  there  is  some  fixed 
charge  but  where  the  carrier  charge  cannot  be  neglected.  For  no  recom- 
bination, the  field  distribution  is  given  by  a  first  order  differential  equa- 
tion. Solutions  in  closed  form  are  obtained  for  the  case  of  pure  drift  flow. 
For  recombination  and  charge  neutrality  the  solution  in  Section  IV  is 
valid  provided  the  fixed  charge  is  small  compared  to  Ui .  We  have  seen 
that  at  large  fields  the  E  versus  x  curve  becomes  linear,  correspond- 
ing to  a  fixed  charge  density  of  A'';  where  Ni  =  \/2n{£/L,- .  Thus 
the  fixed  charge  may  have  a  dominant  effect  on  the  space  charge  while 
having  a  negligible  effect  on  the  solution  in  the  range  where  recombi- 
nation is  important. 


1278      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Let  the  density  of  fixed  charge  he  N  =  Nd  —  Na  =  excess  density 
of  donors  over  acceptors.  N  may  be  either  positive  or  negative.  In  what 
follows  we  shall  assume  that  N  is  positive.  So  the  structure  is  NvP 
where  v  means  weakly  doped  n-type.  Equations  (2.2)  for  the  hole  and 
electron  currents  remain  unchanged.  Poisson's  equation  becomes 

^=  aip-n-\-  N)  (7.1) 

ax 

We  shall  deal  with  the  general  case  of  arbitrary  mobilities.  As  in  Section 
VI  it  is  convenient  to  deal  with  a  fictitious  current  q(Jp  —  Jn/b)  and  a 
fictitious  particle  flow  Jp  +  Jn/b.  The  extra  term  in  (7.1)  drops  out  by 
differentiation  when  (7.1)  is  substituted  into  the  equation  for  Jp  —J„/'b 
so  (6.2)  remains  unchanged.  However,  instead  of  (6.1)  we  have 

So  the  fictitious  particle  flow  is  no  longer  the  gradient  of  a  potential 
involving  only  E  and  s. 

No  Recovibination 

As  in  Section  VI  the  continuity  equations  can  be  immediately  inte- 
grated to  give  (6.6)  and  (6.7).  Again  /  is  given  by  (6.9)  where  the  dif- 
fusion term  on  the  right  can  be  neglected  except  at  the  junctions;  so 
again  we  have  asE  =  1(1  -\-  ^x/L).  Substituting  this  into  (7.2)  and  com- 
bining (7.2)  and  (6.6)  gives  a  first  order  differential  equation  for  E  versus 
X.  It  is  convenient  to  again  use  dimensionless  quantities  with  Ei  ,  2L, 
and  aEi  as  the  units  of  field,  length  and  current  respectively.  Then  the 
differential   eriuation    becomes 


!l 


dx 
where 


=  2(.'c  +  aE)  (7.3) 


I 


N 


and  as  before  Ni  =  \/2ni£/Li ,  which  is  around  4  X  10'"  in  germanium 
at  room  temperature.  The  solution  of  (7.3)  contains  one  arbitrary  con- 
stant (which  corresponds  to  A  in  the  V  =  0  case).  The  lower  limit  on 
the  constant  is  determined  by  the  necessity  of  joining  onto  a  recombina- 
tion solution  \\hcre  s  approached  unity.  The  positions  of  .r„  and  Xp  of 
the  Nv  and  vP  junctions  respectively  are  given  by  (6.5). 


THEORY    OF   THE   SWEPT    INTRINSIC    STRUCTURE  1279 

In  the  region  of  low  fields  where  E^  is  comparable  to  or  less  than  I, 
(7.3)  would  have  to  be  solved  graphically  or  on  a  machine.  At  higher 
fields  the  equation  is  easily  integrated  as  discussed  below. 

Case  of  Pure  Drift 
When  the  flow  is  entirely  by  drift,  E^  »  /  and  (7.3)  becomes 

5^  =  £  +  "  (^-^^ 

which  is  made  integrable  by  the  substitution  E  =  yx.  A  family  of  solu- 
tions for  positive  E  throughout  the  v  region  is 

{E  -  a,xT{E  +  a.xT-  =  Eo"'^"'  (7.5) 

where  2ai  =  \/4  +  «'  +  «  and  2a2  =   -vZ-i  -\-  a-  —  a  and  Eo  is  the 

value  of  E  at  x  =  0.  For  an  intrinsic  region  N  =  a  =  0  and  (7.5)  reduces 

to  E^  =  Eq'  +  x^,  which  is  the  same  as  (3.9)  for  negative  .4.  Fig.  9  shows 

several  curves  for  \'arious  values  of  Eo .  These  remain  above,  and  at 

5  large  distances  approach,  the  asymptotic  solutions  E   =    aix  on  the 

I  right  of  the  origin  and  E  =  —a2X  on  the  left.  These  curves  differ  from  the 

corresponding  curves  for  an  intrinsic  region  in  that  the  straight  line 

I  asymptotes  now  have  slopes  of  ai  and  —  oo  instead  of  ±1.  Toward  the  P 

I  side  the  slope  is  greater  because  the  positive  change  qN  of  the  excess  do- 

I  nors  is  added  to  the  charge  of  holes.  Toward  the  A^  side  of  the  v  re- 

'  gion  the  slope  is  reduced  because  A^  compensates  to  some  extent  for  the 

I  electron  charge.  As  a  increases  and  the  v  region  becomes  more  n  type, 

the  solution  approaches  that  for  a  simple  NP  junction,  where  E  =  ax 

on  the  A^  side. 

Another  set  of  solutions  of  (7.4)  are  given  by 

(ai.r  -  EY^aox  +  E)"'  =  ai^'aa^V  (7.6) 

Several  of  these  are  shown  in  Fig.  9.  They  remain  below  the  linear 
asymptotes  and  go  through  zero  field  at  x  =  ±:Xc  .  Actually  these  will 
join  onto  solutions  of  the  more  general  equation  (7.3)  when  E  becomes 
small  and  the  diffusion  term  becomes  important. 

Rccomhinaiion.  When  the  fixed  charge  density  is  small  compared  to  the 
intrinsic  hole  and  electron  density  the  treatment  of  recombination  in 
Section  IV  remains  \'alid.  The  recombination  solution  joins  onto  a  solu- 
tion of  (7.3)  at  small  fields.  When  N  is  comparable  to  ??» the  recombina- 
tion solution  is  difficult  even  with  the  assumption  of  charge  neutrality. 


1280       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


E. 
E, 


J  a'  Xf       J 

y'    /    X  '  y 

^J^ti  \ 


-3.0        -2.5        -2.0        -1.5         -1.0  0.5  0  0.5  1.0  1.5  2.0  2.5  3.0 

X/2LL 

Fig.  9  —  Field  Distribution  in  the  Range  of  Pure  Drift  for  a  fixed  charge 
N  =  N{  ,ora  =  1 . 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  author  wishes  to  thank  Miss  M.  M.  Segrich  for  doing  the  exten- 
sive computations  and  plotting  the  curves,  and  Miss  M.  C.  Gray  for 
help  with  the  calculations  leading  to  Fig.  7. 

APPENDIX  A 


Prim's  Zero-Current  Approximation 

Prim's  analysis  is  based  on  the  assumption  that  the  hole  and  electron 
currents  are  negligibly  small  differences  between  their  drift  and  diffusion 
terms.  Setting  Jp  =  /„  =  0  then  gives  n  and  p  as  functions  of  the  po- 
tential, which  is  found  by  substituting  n  and  p  into  Poisson's  equation 
and  solving  subject  to  the  boundary  conditions  at  the  junctions.  These 
conditions  involve  the  applied  bias  and  the  majority  carrier  densities  in 
the  extrinsic  regions.  Since  the  current  is  assumed  to  vanish,  the  phe- 
nomena of  carrier  generation  and  recombination  do  not  enter  the 
problem  and  the  results  are  independent  of  carrier  mobility.  The  results 
will  be  exact  when  there  is  no  applied  voltage;  the  potential  drop  across 
the  unit  is  then  the  built-in  potential.  In  this  appendix  we  use  an  internal 
consistency  check  to  see  for  what  values  of  applied  bias  the  analysis 


THEORY    OF   THE    SWEPT    INTRINSIC    STRUCTURE  1281 

breaks  down.  First  we  find  where  the  carrier  concentration  is  in  error  by 
finding  the  bias  at  which  the  minimum  drift  current  as  calculated  from 
qn(n  +  p)E  becomes  equal  to  the  total  current,  as  found  from  the  excess 
of  generation  over  recombination  in  the  intrinsic  region.  We  then  go  on 
to  find  where  the  error  in  carrier  concentration  gives  a  sufficient  error  in 
space  charge  to  affect  the  calculation  of  electric  field.  As  we  shall  see,  the 
zero-current  approximation  gives  too  low  a  carrier  concentration  in  the 
interior  of  the  intrinsic  region.  This  will  lead  to  serious  errors  in  the  field 
distribution  only  if  the  space  charge  of  the  carriers  is  important.  When 
the  bias  is  sufficiently  high  or  the  intrinsic  region  sufficiently  narrow 
that  the  intrinsic  region  is  swept  so  clean  that  the  carrier  space  charge  is, 
in  fact,  negligible,  it  will  not  matter  that  the  calculated  carrier  density 
is  too  low,  even  by  orders  of  magnitude.  In  such  cases,  the  electric  field  is 
constant  throughout  most  of  the  intrinsic  region. 

In  the  following  we  shall,  for  simplicity,  take  6=1  and  assume  that 
the  extrinsic  regions  are  ecjually  doped  so  that  the  problem  is  symmetri- 
cal. 

Carrier  Density 

We  now  find  where,  on  the  zero  current  assumption,  the  drift  current 
becomes  equal  to  the  total  current.  This  involves  knowing  only  the 
carrier  concentrations  and  the  field  Ei  in  the  center  of  the  intrinsic 
region,  where  the  drift  current  qyi,{n  -f-  p)Ei  is  a  minimum.  By  symmetry 
n  and  y  are  equal  here  and  n  =  p  =  7ii  exp  (  —  qVa/2kT)  where  Va  is 
the  applied  bias.  The  minimum  field  Ei  is  given  by  the  total  voltage 
drop  V  and  the  field  penetration  parameter  rj,  which  is  the  ratio  of  the 
minimum  field  to  the  average  field.  Thus  r)  =  2LEi/V  where  2L  is  the 
width  of  the  intrinsic  regions.  The  difference  between  V  and  Va  is  the 
built-in  voltage  {2kT/q)/ln{N /rii)  where  N  is  the  majority  carrier 
concentration  in  the  extrinsic  regions.  We  now  have  for  the  drift  current 
in  the  center  of  the  intrinsic  region 

,.(,.  + p)£  =  , ,0(1;)^  exp  (-1^)  (Al) 

We  next  find  the  total  current  from  the  excess  of  generation  over  re- 
combination in  the  intrinsic  region.  From  the  zero  current  assumption, 
np  =  Ui   exp  (  —  qVa/kT)  is  constant  throughout  the  intrinsic  region. 
Hence  g  —  r  is  constant.  So  the  current  /  =  q(g  —  r)2L  =  qL{ni  —  np)/ 
TUi  is 


qLrii 


1  —  exp 


(A2) 


1282       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Equating  this  to  the  drift  current  (Al)  in  the  center  of  the  intrinsic 
region  gives 

The  error  in  carrier  concentration  is  less  for  narrower  intrinsic  regions 
and  lower  biases.  Thus  (A3)  gives  a  curve  of  L  versus  Va  such  that  the 
zero  current  solution  gives  a  good  approximation  to  carrier  concentration 
for  points  in  the  VaL  plane  lying  well  below  the  curve.  As  expected,  for 
zero  bias,  the  solution  is  good  for  any  value  of  L.  However,  for  a  bias  of  \ 
several  kT/q,  the  solution  for  carrier  concentration  breaks  down  unless  ^ 
L  is  a  very  small  fraction  of  a  diffusion  length. 

Carrier  Space  Charge. 

In  Prim's  analysis  the  carrier  space  charge  is  so  low  throughout  most 
of  the  intrinsic  region  that  the  field  remains  approximately  constant 
and  equal  to  Ei .  However  there  must  be  enough  carriers  present  that 
the  drift  currents  of  holes  and  electrons  can  remove  the  carriers  as  fast 
as  they  are  generated.  In  this  section  we  ask  where  the  space  charge  of 
the  necessary  carriers  becomes  large  enough  that  its  effect  on  the  field 
can  no  longer  be  neglected.  Let  i^E  be  the  change  in  field  due  to  the 
space  charge  in  the  intrinsic  region  (not  counting  the  high  field  regions 
near  the  junctions).  Unless  LE  is  small  compared  to  Ei  the  neglect  of 
carrier  space  charge  will  not  be  justified.  We  shall  find  the  ratio  of  AE 
to  Ei . 

If  the  field  is  to  be  approximately  constant,  then  the  hole  and  electron 
concentrations  can  easily  be  found  from  the  hole  and  electrons  currents. 
We  shall  deal  with  applied  biases  of  at  least  a  few  kT/q,  for  which 
recombination  is  negligible  and  the  total  current  I  =  qg2L  =  qUiLlr. 
Since  g  —  r  =  g\s>  constant,  the  hole  and  electron  currents  are  linear  in 
X  and,  for  constant  field,  are  proportional  to  the  hole  and  electron  con- 
centrations respectively.  Thus  the  net  space  charge  of  the  moving 
carriers  q{'p  —  n)  is  proportional  to  x  and  varies  from  zero  in  the  center i 
of  the  intrinsic  region  to  qp  near  the  IP  junction,  where  n  is  small 
compared  to  p  and  the  current  flows  by  hole  drift,  so  /  =  q^ipEi .  Thus 
the  maximum  charge  is  I/iiEi  and  the  total  positive  charge  of  the  car- 
riers on  the  P  side  of  the  center  is  IL/2iJ.Ei .  This  gives  a  drop  in  field 

„  _    alL    _  arii  kT  L 
"  2qiJ.Ei  ~  'YqEiL} 


THEORY   OF   THE   SWEPT   II 

"JTRINSI 

Dividing  by  Ei  =   7]V/2L  gives 

AE         L' 

(kTV 

Ei       £'L,' 

\mvj 

1283 


(A4) 

Setting  AE  equal  to  some  fraction,  say  20  per  cent  of  E^  gives  a  family 
of  curves  for  V  versus  L  with  ??  as  a  parameter.  Prim  has  plotted  such 
curves  in  Fig.  11  of  his  paper.  His  curves  will  be  good  approximations 
when  V  for  a  given  L  and  77  lies  above  the  V  given  by  (A4). 

Prim's  results  are  expressed  in  terms  of  the  parameters  U  = 
qV/2kT  and  L  =  2L/£e  where  £e  is  the  Debye  length  in  the  extrinsic 
material.  £e  is  given  by  the  same  formula  as  £  except  that  A''  replaces  n» . 
Substituting  these  into  (A4)  and  setting  AE  =  Ei/5  gives 

L  =  3.57  — '■  r,U  (A5) 

ni£ 

Prim's  U  versus  L  curves  will  be  accurate  up  to  the  point  where  they 
intersect  the  corresponding  curves  from  (A5).  For  germanium  a  reason- 
able value  of  NLi/ni£  is  about  10  .  This  says  that  Prim's  curves  go  bad 
at  about  L  =  10  ,  which  would  be  about  2.1  X  10~^  cm  in  germanium 
at  300°C. 

Branching  of  the  V  versus  L  Curves 

An  effect  which  does  not  emerge  from  the  zero-current  analysis  is 
that  V  may  have  several  values  for  the  same  L  and  7/.  In  other  words 
the  V  versus  L  curve  for  given  ??  will  have  more  than  one  branch.  Specifi- 
cally, there  will  be  a  single  V  versus  L  curve  up  to  a  certain  L  at  which 
the  curve  splits  into  three  branches  that  diverge  as  L  increases.  This 
may  be  seen  as  follows:  Consider  an  intrinsic  region  that  is  long  compared 
to  the  diffusion  length.  Suppose  a  bias  is  applied  that  is  low  enough  not 
to  appreciably  affect  the  space  charge  and  potential  drop  at  the  junc- 
tions. A  current  will  flow  and  a  proportional,  ohmic  voltage  drop  will  be 
developed  across  the  intrinsic  region.  If  the  intrinsic  region  is  long 
enough,  this  ohmic  voltage  may  become  large  compared  to  the  built-in 
voltage  before  the  voltage  drop  at  the  junctions  has  changed  appre- 
ciably. In  this  range  the  field  penetration  parameter  will  be  rising  from 
zero  to  about  unity  as  V  increases  from  the  built-in  voltage  and  ap- 
proaches the  ohmic  voltage.  As  the  voltage  continues  to  increase,  the 
space  charge  begins  to  penetrate  the  intrinsic  region  and  a  majority  of 
the  voltage  drop  comes  in  the  space  charge  regions.  Let  L  be  the  ef- 
fective length  of  current  generation.  When  L  is  larger  than  a  diffusion 


1284       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

length  but  small  compared  to  the  length  of  the  intrinsic  region,  then  the 
voltage  drop  at  the  ends  of  the  intrinsic  region  will  be  proportional  to 
L  while  the  current,  and  consequently  the  minimum  field,  will  be  propor- 
tional to  L.  Thus  r?  will  be  proportional  to  1/L  and  will  decrease  as  V 
increases  and  the  region  becomes  more  swept.  Finally  the  two  space 
charge  regions  meet;  then  ??  rises  again  with  V  and  approaches  unity. 
Hence,  for  a  given  -q  and  length  of  intrinsic  region,  there  will  be  three 
different  values  of  V.  For  lower  L  the  dip  in  the  i]  versus  V  curve  will  be 
less,  and  there  will  be  only  one  V  for  some  values  of  77.  Since  -q  starts 
from  zero  at  the  built-in  voltage  and  approaches  unity  for  infinite  volt- 
age, there  must  be  either  one  or  three  values  of  V  for  every  r?.  Thus 
when  the  V  versus  L  curve  (or  in  Prim's  notation  the  U  versus  L  curve) 
branches,  it  branches  at  once  into  three  curves.  Prim's  plot  gives  the 
upper  branch  in  cases  where  all  three  are  present. 


A  Medium  Power  Traveling-Wave  Tube 
for  6,000-Mc  Radio  Relay 

By  J.  P.  LAICO,  H.  L.  McDOWELL  and  C.  R.  MOSTER 

(Manuscript  received  May  15,  1956) 

This  paper  discusses  a  traveling-wave  amplifier  which  gives  30  dh  of  gain 
at  5  watts  output  in  the  5,925-  to  6,425-nic  common  carrier  hand.  A  descrip- 
tion of  the  tube  and  detailed  performance  data  are  given. 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  Page 

I.  Introduction 1285 

II.  Design  Considerations 1288 

III.  Description  of  the  Tube 1291 

3.1  General  Description 1291 

3.2  Tlie  Electron  Gun  and  Electron  Beam  Focusing 1295 

3.3  The  Helix 1302 

3.4  The  Collector 1311 

IV.  Performance  Characteristics 1314 

4.1  Method  of  Approach 1314 

4.2  Operation  Under  Nominal  Conditions 1315 

4.3  Operation  Over  an  Extended  Range 1325 

4.4  Noise  Performance 1333 

4.5  Intermodulation 1336 

V.  Life  Tests 1342 

VI.  Acknowledgements 1343 

I.    INTRODUCTION 

During  the  past  ten  years  traveling-wave  tubes  have  received  con- 
siderable attention  in  vacuum  tube  laboratories,  both  in  this  country 
and  abroad.  So  far  their  use  in  operating  systems  has  been  somewhat 
limited,  the  most  notable  exceptions  being  in  radio  relay  service  in  France, 
Great  Britain,  and  Japan.  However,  it  appears  that  sufficient  progress 
in  both  tube  and  system  design  has  been  made  so  that  traveling-wave 
tubes  may  see  widespread  application  in  the  near  future. 

This  paper  describes  an  experimental  helix  type  traveling-wave  tube 
representative  of  a  class  which  may  see  extensive  use  as  a  power  amplifier 
in  radio  relay  systems.  The  tube  is  designated  as  the  Bell  Laboratories 
type  MI789.  Stated  briefly,  the  performance  characteristics  under 
nominal  operating  conditions  arc: 

1285 


1286       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Frequency  Range 5,925-6,425  mc 

Power  Output 5  watts 

Gain  at  5  watts  output 31-35  db 

Noise  Figure <  30  db 

The  tube  is  designed  for  use  with  w-aveguide  input  and  output  circuits. 
The  input  voltage  standing  wave  ratio  (VSWR)  is  less  than  1.1  and  the 
output  VSWR  is  less  than  1.4  over  the  500-mc  band  when  the  tube  is 
delivering  5  watts  of  output.  Fig.  1  shows  a  photograph  of  an  MI789 
and  of  an  experimental  permanent-magnet  focusing  circuit. 

In  developing  this  tube  we  have  endeavored  to  produce  an  amplifier 
which  could  be  considered  "practical"  for  use  in  a  transcontinental  radio 
relay  system.  Because  such  an  application  requires  a  high  degree  of 
reliability  and  refinement  in  performance,  the  tube  was  rather  con- 
servatively designed.  This  made  it  possible  to  obtain  the  desired  gain 
and  power  output  without  difficulty.  On  the  other  hand,  the  contem- 


Fig.  1  —  The  M1789  traveling-wave  tube  and  an  experimental  permanent  mag- 
netic circuit  used  to  focus  it.  The  circuit  contains  two  specially  shaped  bar  mag- 
nets l)et\veen  which  the  tube  is  mounted.  The  magnetic  flux  density  obtained  is 
600  gauss,  and  the  overall  circuit  weight  is  about  25  pounds. 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1287 

plated  system  application  made  it  necessary  to  investigate  in  detail  the 
problems  associated  with  band  flatness,  matching,  noise  output,  certain 
signal  distortions,  reproducibility,  and  long  life. 

The  solution  of  some  of  these  problems  required  the  development  of  a 
precisely  constructed  helix  assembly  in  which  the  helix  winding  is  bonded 
to  ceramic  support  rods  by  glaze.  Others  required  the  initiation  of  a  life 
test  program.  Early  results  indicate  that  life  exceeding  10,000  hours 
can  be  obtained.  This,  in  no  small  measure,  is  a  result  of  a  dc  potential 
profile  which  minimizes  the  ion  bombardment  of  the  cathode.  Since 
power  consumed  by  focusing  solenoids  seriously  degrades  the  o\'erall 
efficiency  of  a  traveling-wave  amplifier,  permanent  magnet  focusing  cir- 
cuits such  as  the  one  shown  in  Fig.  1  have  been  designed.  Finally,  to 
further  improve  efficiency,  a  collector  which  can  be  operated  at  abcut 
half  the  helix  voltage  was  developed. 

The  major  difficulties  encountered  in  the  course  of  the  MI789  develop- 
ment were:  excessive  noise  output,  ripples  in  the  gain-frequency  char- 
acteristic, and  lack  of  reproducibility  of  gain.  There  is  evidence  that  a 
growing  noise  current  wave  on  the  electron  stream  was  the  source  of  the 
high  noise  output.  This  phenomenon  has  been  observed  by  a  number  of 
experimenters  but  is  not  yet  fully  explained.  By  allowing  a  small  amount 
of  the  magnetic  focusing  flux  to  link  the  cathode,  the  growing  noise  wave 
was  eliminated,  and  the  noise  reduced  to  a  reasonable  level  for  a  power 
amplifier.  Reflections  caused  by  slight  non-uniformities  in  the  helix  pitch 
were  the  source  of  the  gain  ripples.  Precise  helix  winding  techniques  re- 
duced these  reflections  so  that  the  ripples  are  now  less  than  ±0.1  db. 
The  lack  of  reproducibility  in  gain  was  caused  by  variations  in  helix 
attenuation.  Here,  too,  careful  construction  techniques  alleviated  the 
problem  so  that  in  a  recent  group  of  tubes  the  range  of  gain  variation  at 
five  watts  output  was  ±2  db. 

We  have  divided  this  paper  into  four  main  parts.  The  next  section 
discusses  some  of  the  factors  affecting  the  design  of  the  traveling-w-ave 
tube.  (We  will  henceforth  use  the  abbreviation  TWT.)  Section  III 
describes  the  tube  itself.  Certain  performance  data  are  included  there 
when  closely  related  to  a  particular  portion  of  the  tube.  Section  IV 
considers  the  rf  performance  in  detail.  There  comparisons  are  made 
lietween  the  performance  predicted  from  TWT  theory  and  that  actually 
observed.  Finally  Section  V  summarizes  our  life  test  experience. 

This  paper  is  written  primarily  for  workers  in  the  vacuum  tube  field 
and  assumes  knowledge  of  TWT  theory.  However,  we  believe  that 
readers  interested  in  TWT's  from  an  application  standpoint  may  also 
benefit  from  the  discussion  of  the  rf  performance  in  Section  IV.  Much  of 
that  section  can  be  understood  w'ithout  detailed  knowledge  of  TWT's. 


1288       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 
II.    DESIGN    CONSIDERATIONS 

While  TWT  theory  served  as  a  general  guide  in  the  development  of 
the  MI789,  a  number  of  important  tube  parameters  had  to  be  determined 
either  by  experimentation  or  by  judgement  based  on  past  experience. 
The  most  important  of  these  were : 

Saturation  power  output 12  watts 

Mean  helix  diameter 90  mils 

7a --^    1.6 

Magnetic  flux  density 600  gauss 

Cathode  current  density '^  200  ma/cm^ 

These  quantities  and  the  requirement  of  30-db  gain  at  five  watts  output 
largely  determined  the  TWT  design. 

The  saturation  output  of  12  watts  was  found  necessary  to  obtain  the 
desired  linearity  at  five  watts  output  and  the  7a  value  of  1.6  to  obtain  the 
flattest  frequency  response  over  the  desired  band. 

The  choice  of  helix  diameter  and  magnetic  flux  density  represented  a 
compromise.  For  the  highest  gain  per  unit  length,  best  efficiency,  and 
lowest  operating  voltage,  a  small  helix  diameter  was  called  for.  On  the 
other  hand,  a  large  helix  diameter  was  desirable  in  order  to  ease  the 
problem  of  beam  focusing  and  to  facilitate  the  design  of  a  light-weight 
permanent  magnet  focusing  circuit.  In  particular,  the  design  of  such  a 
circuit  can  be  greatly  simplified  if  the  field  strength  required  is  less  than 
the  coercive  force  of  available  magnetic  materials.  This  allows  the  use  of 
straight  bar  magnets  instead  of  much  heavier  horseshoe  magnets.  More- 
over, the  size  and  weight  of  the  magnetic  circuit  is  minimized  by  employ- 
ing a  high  energy  product  material.  These  considerations  led  us  to  choose 
a  flux  density  of  600  gauss,  thereby  permitting  us  to  design  a  magnetic 
circuit  using  Alnico  bar  magnets. 

To  obtain  long  tube  life  we  felt  it  desirable  to  limit  the  helix  intercep- 
tion to  about  one  per  cent  of  the  beam  current.  On  the  basis  of  past 
results  we  estimated  that  this  could  be  done  with  a  magnetic  flux  density 
2.6  times  the  Brillouin  value  for  a  beam  entirely  filling  the  helix.  With 
this  restriction,  Fig.  2  shows  how  the  TWT  design  is  affected  by  varying 
the  helix  diameter.  A  choice  of  600  gauss  is  seen  to  result  in  a  mean  helix 
diameter  of  90  mils. 

In  the  selection  of  cathode  current  density,  a  compromise  between 
long  life  and  ease  of  focusing  had  to  be  made.  To  obtain  long  life,  the 
current  density  should  be  minimized.  However,  this  calls  for  a  highly 
convergent  gun  which  in  turn  complicates  the  focusing  problem.  We 
decided  to  use  a  sprayed  oxide  cathode  operating  at  about  200  ma/cm^. 
Experience  with  the  Western  Electric  41 6B  microwave  triode  had  shown 


bOUO 

5000 
4000 
3000 
2000 
1000 
0 

/ 

t 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

y 

30 
25 

20 
15 
10 

5 

0 

\ 

\i 

N 

\. 

v,^^ 

^ 

120 

100 

80 

60 

40 

20 

0 

\ 

> 

\ 

\ 

s.  ' 

^ 

^ 

» 

in     120 

UJ 

a. 

LU 
CL 

< 


100 


80 


60 


40 


20 


12 


10 


5 
z 


z 

LU 

tr 
cr 

D 
O 

5 
< 

UJ 
CD 


(/) 
LU 

I 

u 

z 

z 

X 

_l 
LU 

I 

LL 
O 

I 
I- 
15 
Z 
UJ 

_l 


1200 
1/1 

01 

<  1000 


40  60  60         100        120        140 


160 


>- 
(3 
ul 

z 

UJ 
Q 

X 

D 
_l 
U. 

u 

I- 
m 
z 
o 
< 
5 


800 


600 


400 


200 


40 


60 


80 


100        120       140       160 


MEAN    HELIX    DIAMETER  IN   MILS 


Fig.  2  —  Alternate  designs  for  the  M1789.  These  curves  are  an  estimate  of  how 
the  TWT  design  would  be  affected  by  changing  the  helix  diameter.  They  represent 
essentially  a  scaling  of  the  M1789  design.  In  all  cases  the  expected  maximum 
power  output  is  12  watts  and  the  low-level  gain  is  33  db.  The  line  at  90  mils  mean 
diameter  in  the  curves  represents  the  present  M1789  design.  In  these  calculations 
it  was  assumed  that : 

a.  7a  =  1.6 

b.  power  output  =  2.1  CIoVo  =  12  watts 

c.  the  magnetic  flux  density  is  2.6  times  the  Brillouin  flux  density  for  a  beam 
entirely  filling  the  helix. 

d.  the  ratio  of  wire  diameter  to  pitch  is  0.34. 

e.  the  dielectric  loading  factor  is  0.79. 

f .  the  ratio  of  effective  beam  diameter  to  mean  helix  diameter  is  0.5. 


1289 


1290      THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  I — Summary  of  M1789  Design 


I.  Helix  Dimensions 
Mean  Diameter 
Inside  Diameter 
Wire  Diameter 
Turns  per  Inch 
Pitch 

Wire  Diameter/Pitch 
Active  Length 
II.  Voltages  and  Currents 

Electrode 


III. 


IV, 


V. 


90      mils 

80      mils 

10      mils 

34 

29.4  mils 

0.34 

5^      inches 


Voltage 
(volts) 


Cathode  0 

Beam  Forming  Electrode  0 

Accelerator  2600 

Helix  2400 

Collector  1200 
Heater  Power 
TWT  Parameters  at  Midband  (6175  mc) 


6  watts 


Current 
(ma) 

40 

0 

<   0.1 

<0.4 

>39.5 


ka 

C 

QC 


1.58 
0.148 
0.058 
0.29 
30 


As  defined  by  Tien' 


N  (number  of  X's  on  helix) 

Dielectric  Loading  factor  0.79 

Impedance  Reduction  factor        0.4 

Electron  Gun 

Gun  type  —  Converging  Pierce  Gun 

Cathode  type  —  Spraj'ed  oxide 

Cathode  Current  Density  213  ma/cm^  (for/x  =  40  ma) 

Cathode  diameter  —  192  mils 

Convergence  half  angle  12°  40'_ 

Cathode  radius  of  curvature  (r^)  438  mils 
Anode  radius  of  curvature  (/•„)  190  mils 
It^c/n,  2.3 

Pervernce  0.3  X  10~^  amps/volts^'z 

VVa/Tk  =  1.61  for  Tk  =  720°C 
At  the  beam  minimum  in  absence  of  magnetic  field: 
rmin  (from  Pierce^") 

from  Danielson,  Rosenfeld  &  Saloom^ 


r9i 

Tt/a- 

a 


Brillouin  flux  density  for  80  mil  helix  ID 
Actual  focusing  flux  density  required 
Beam  transmission  from  cathode  to  collector  at  5  watts 
output 


11.5 

mils 

0.220 

20.5 

mils 

3.50 

4.80 

mils 

240 

gauss 

600 

gauss 

99% 


RF  Performance 

Frequency  range 

5925-6425  mc 

Saturation  power  output 

12 

watts 

Nominal  power  output 

5 

watts 

Gain  at  5  watts 

31-35 

db 

Noise  figure 

<30 

db 

Input  VSWR 

<1.1 

"I  impedance  match   to  WR  159 
/     waveguide 

Output  VSWR  (at  5  watts) 

<1.4 

For  an  explanation  of  symbols  see  page  1345. 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1291 

that  tube  life  in  excess  of  10,000  hours  was  possible  with  such  a  cathode. 
Moreover,  an  electron  gun  of  the  required  convergence  (about  13°  half 
angle)  could  be  designed  using  standard  techniques. 

The  various  dimensions,  parameters,  voltages  and  currents  involved 
in  the  design  of  the  MI789  are  summarized  in  Table  I.  For  the  sake  of 
completeness,  some  rf  performance  data  are  also  included. 

III.    DESCRIPTION    OF   THE   TUBE 

3.1  General  Description 

This  section  describes  the  mechanical  structure  of  the  MI789  and 
presents  some  performance  data  closely  associated  with  particular 
portions  of  the  tube.  The  overall  rf  performance  is  reserved  for  considera- 
tion in  the  next  section.  In  the  MI789  we  have  tried  to  achieve  a  design 
which  could  be  easily  modified  for  experimental  purposes  and  which 
would  also  be  adapted  to  quantity  production.  To  assist  in  obtaining  low 
gas  pressure,  a  rather  "open"  structure  is  used,  thereby  minimizing  the 
pumping  impedance.  In  addition,  all  parts  are  designed  to  withstand 
comparatively  high  temperatures  during  outgassing,  both  when  the  tube 
is  pumped  and,  in  the  case  of  the  helix  and  gun  assemblies,  during  a 
vacuum  firing  treatment  prior  to  final  assembly.  Fig.  3  shows  an  MI789 
and  its  subassemblies.  Fig.  4  shows  a  simplified  drawing  of  the  whole 
tube  and  Fig.  5  shows  how  the  tube  is  mounted  with  respect  to  the  perma- 
nent magnet  circuit  and  to  the  waveguides.  The  permanent  magnets  are 
shown  schematically  in  Fig.  5.  In  actual  practice  they  are  shaped  so  as 
to  produce  a  uniform  field  between  the  pole  pieces.  The  means  of  doing 
this  was  discussed  by  M.  S.  Glass  at  the  Second  Annual  Meeting  of  the 
I.R.E.  Professional  Group  on  Electron  Devices,  Washington,  D.  C., 
October  26,  1956. 

Control  of  Positive  Ions 

Our  experience  with  previous  TWT's  has  indicated  that  an  improve- 
ment in  life  by  as  much  as  a  factor  of  ten  is  obtained  by  arranging  the 
dc  potential  profile  so  that  positive  ion  bombardment  of  the  cathode  is 
minimized.  This  improvement  has  been  observed  even  in  tubes  in  which 
all  reasonable  steps  have  been  taken  toward  minimizing  the  residual 
gas  pressure.  From  Table  I  it  is  seen  that  the  relative  values  of  ac- 
celerator, helix,  and  collector  voltage  are  arranged  to  drain  positive  ions 
formed  in  the  helix  region  toward  the  collector.  These  ions  are  thereby 
kept  from  reaching  the  cathode.  Spurious  ion  modulation  which  can 
result  from  accumulation  of  ions  in  the  helix  is  also  prevented.^ 


a: 
o 
\~ 
u 
bj 
-J 
_j 
o 
u 


n       ^ 

U   "J 

1    CD 

;i    5 

Id 

10 

to 

< 

l         ac 

O 

{- 

o 

bj 

-J 

_J 

X 

o 

3 

! 

yj 

X 

X 

3 

lU 

X 

i 

i 

Z 

^    D 

O 

>- 

o: 

< 

1- 

z 

D 

o 


UJ 

CL 
O 
_J 
UJ 

> 

Z 
LJ 


CO 

D 

H 

h- 

^ 

D 

H 

UJ 

CO 

UJ 

fv. 

J 

a. 

s 

5  5 

o 
u 


XI  o  >> 

t,  03  a 

-^  -13   O 

0)   G  _^ 

■+^'>-.  bC 
n   u   G 


CU 


OJ    CJ    iH    >> 

go  g^ 

G    .      O)^ 

-*J     '-'     in     ^ 
CO  ."     O     ^ 

«    S'^    G 

G   g^^ 
G   0)   X    0) 


QJ 


' — I    ^    '•^    ^ 

Oj  ~  IS 

X   o3   to  +^ 

M  rt_0    G 

_G  _Q    QJ    02 

-5  m  G  o 

G  OJ     N 

o;  "  o  £ 

^   "'  -G   ~ 
CO  ,^~ 

G  ««  T^ 

C    C3    O 

s  g  ^  ^ 

Qj      _-:  — 

-e  o  =:  5 

03  ^ 


CO  ""   ~ 

*J  -T"   J- 


a; 


ra    CO    o  "^ 

^  _,       ^ 

S   G    ^'  -1^ 


00.2  G 


--G    ^    C    CO 

HIg  i-"^ 
I  ^  ^^ 

M  G  2  -^ 
•  -   C  _c   O] 

1^    a;   <u    0) 
co^^ 


1292 


o 

O 

UJ 

-1 
_j 
o 
o 


_J 

UJ 

I 


z 


m 
in 


CD 

< 


o 


_r;_aj       o-o 


*t>^ 

^ 

m 

-J 

CD 

■^" 

V 

en 
o 


F^ 


T*  _D  '^  ^    *-< 

X  1^  o  w 

o  ":3  oj  CO  111 
■r;  cu  c-"i^ 

5  OJ  c 
o  ,£2   c3 


to   cl 


C   W2   bC  CO 


a>  <p 


"  O    02 

bC  <U   o 

d  QJ  C 

^  .      e3 

O  >>  in 


a^^.ii 


a 


O    „    :^^    G    it 


*^    CO    tH    03 

^  S  0)  S  =^ 

S  ^  B  a^-3 

-*j  tH  'is  a; 
Oi-r;  c3        o5 

ri    <    t^i  t4-i    QJ 
^         --=-    O  ^ 

,ii!  ^  -(J  aj  _g 

-2  =  2^^ 

^    ^C3    CO    - 


-  «  $ 


^  02 

D  O 

>  a 

'"  ^  ^ 

^  1^  " 

3 -Co 

CO  a;  -^^ 


e 

'So 
(-1 

03 


O 


o3  a;  •-! 

^^    rH    S-i 
C    !-,    « 


fl  rt 


.^"^ 


a:"  02 
C  o 

c3   c3 

o3 
Hi 


G    Ml 

03    ^ 
C    13 


^   ^   c    G 


02 ;::; 

02    G 


a  S  G  9i'a3 


03   3   o 

J    03    ^ 
03  -^J  Ij-- 


P    MJ 

-H*    03    02 


03 


^  s 


03 


02  r^ 
03 
!h    03 


0) 

-G 


03 

G 

o3 


03    ^H    d 

;h     ^     ^ 
_,    02    O 

•+J    03  C3 

•^    CO  rt 

fe     0)  " 

■^-G  02 

b»  CO 

03    M^ 

V; 

o3 


•i-H       /-^      *"•       _ 


X 


?2  MS 

p' 

03 
o3 


CO   C 

03    5 

■"    M 

03 

c3    03 
.-, -G 


M-> 
03    P 

"^    13 


t«    O 
O-G 

CZ3 

^£ 
>j  02 


T3 
03 

yG 


G    (2 

M  a; 
o3   o 


03    G 


rS-G  ="  =^ 


G    O  03 

'X    02  G 

+-■  G 

I     U  M 

^   ^"os' 

CO 

h'r  G  1^ 


"    O 


iJ    03 

o  ;3 


G  03  fl 
0;£3     03 

<^    03    o 

o  B  o. 

■S     02^ 

5:g^ 

-■^  G 

03 

1/2 

tZ3 

o3 

^  M 
;-< 

+J  03 
G^ 
03  -^^ 

S=" 
§° 
O  03 
02  '^ 

03=5-- 

a,  1-  +2 

O  GyG 

— .    03 

4^    «^    03 

>  s  § 

03         "o 
M  " 

«  G   c3 

->^  TS    03 

„.  c^ 
M-r-  o3 
(-»   s-(    _, 

-7^  G  02 
—    03  *-^ 


rn 

G 

^ 

.ij 

>> 

03 

C3 
C3 

03 

-T3 

-D 

03 

03 

G 

ti 

•  r-l 

03 

_Q 

(.'J 

03 

o 

03-73 

03 

CO 

c3 

-u 
o 

03 
03 

03 

-G 

-a 

G 

X 

C3 

r1 

1— < 

D4  c3 

C0«<-1 

& 

s 

1293 


1294       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


rr  \— 

/^l^ 

— ^ 

T-'^f^— rrr^ 

■■■,-■ 

■>..Ul- 
■   LU  O 

;:     LU    :                 \  <^<       5=4 

z°- 

:    ■  <  ^ 

■          _l  .                                                    s 

f=? 

/■  ■■   1   UJ,:,:  ^:.>, 

O 

,0.                                               rr- 

^#^      ^  -vZ  CD ■;;;.;■■■;; ;:;:;-: 

.:.....:....,..:;.:.^^t    III 

]■■ 

'^'~ 

f^^:- 

Z^ 

i     1 

UJ 

-o 

-•     T 

^ 

^ 

m  — ~J  c 

'■ '  '■  'i  "-l 

,  lllli 

rnTi 

lll.tr 

&— 

T  h 

G 

u 

\ 

. 

'vvvvvvVvvV/VV 

- 

t\ 

\ 

, 

////////// 

//////// 

^ 

^ 

/////////////. 

, 

/'        1 

\ 

's 

'/////// J 

////////////// 

/ 

. ; 

\ 

//////// 

'//yx// /////// 

N          '' 

\ 

^ 

//////// 

nu.f 

\ 

;; 

^m 

■  V  '!a  ^  •. 

^  \z. 

^  1  E 

yA\  cc 

UJ 

\    UJ 

^//yyyy// 

CL 

Q_l 

////yyyy 

< 

ZQ. 

//////// 

1- 

O 

/yyy//vv 

z 

<8 

^w 

I 

z>- 

//////// 

u 

LUb 

V//V/V/ 

yvY.'^ 'vvy//// 

(3 

HO 

y/jr///// 

/Z^/^/yyyyyyy 

< 

z< 

//////// 

ovy'^oY/yy// 

2 

<Q_ 

//////// 

'Zyy'^'Zy//Z', 

< 

yy////y/ 

Zy/</yyyyy// 

u 

//////// 

W/^W% 

vyyyyyy/' 

/V/^yyyyyy/y 

/V/V///V 

'yy^^'T^y/// 

^/VV/V/// 

////^yyyyyyy. 

//////// 

Zy/^y/Zyv// 

//////// 

vyyy<wyyy// 

yyyyyyy/ 

W/^^yyyy/// 

/yyyyy// 

Mm^/ 

UJ 
Q 

0^^ 

^ 

o 

UJ 

i  i 

iD         I/) 

i    \ 

I 

1 

t 

Q 

_l 
UJ 

w 

.     ^ 

i    E 

;^ 

X 

^p 

\    ppnrrV 

■rV^              C 

y 

4^ 

[ 

■     , 

1- 

UJ 

'^^y%V/ 

■ 

z 

////////y 

' 

i 

(J 

/yy//vv/ 

M 

'yy///yy//////. 

0 

< 

y//y////^y 

Wyy/^ 

ttUii 

33          I      5 
rr-T    r — '  i    c 

.lilH 

^  2 

/ 

■■^-■■' ■■■■■■  ■^■■■.v-;:V:;.\:w.V::i:;       fj^ 

^L   iSs; 

1 '.  ^  Vl 

/ 

LU                               :"::':' 

LU      ■. 

.■■■.■;1 

.     .    Q_ 

-i 

:.\j'>-::^r: 

:v;-P5;':^::: 

1 

T 

,    -LU. 

'^'1 

' 

1    f;^ 

MAGNE 
SUPPC 

ri 
1 

i          ^ 

\ 

\ 

1          \ 

11 

1               s 

^ 

■:K    1    LU  :::■::■:: ■: 

1  Ti  " 

1 

^ 

' 

^ 

^Vlv-zm  ■■:::;:■.■::- 

^ 

I?."ill 

\^,_^^^JJ^)^      ^^^-*— .^^:j>i*-^                                     ^\^   j^y 

• 

V 

ii. 

^j^*'''*'^***^*-^ 

— __^~j 

Si    O   O     I     CO 


bjO*"    O^    IS 
bC  tH    o^    ?f 


5  oi  ci^  js 

cc    X  0^   ^  fl 

-^    gj  fl     d  03 

bil  OJ  "q  H=o  2 

>H  »^  a. 

o  "3  c  ^  — 

■*-';n  r  <u  5P 


rt  .-;     « 


O    bJO  P 
"    >*   «, 


b£^ 


OJ   bX)  ii   C 
fl   c3   K  •- 


CO 


03. 


a;  q; 


2  '^  ^  aj--2  TO 
o-.S  S  ^  o 


H  o 

t>.   s- 


C)     CO 


is  !-  H  o 
S  a>  S  u 

tp    M  CO 

C   G    a;   fii 
Ifi  2  'S-  b£  S    ° 

r  <«  to  5  o  o 

Oi     CO  .-.      r^      CD     O 
-TI     <U     .        CO—     O 

>-  Qj  bJ}<r^  g.^ 
bci^a:^^^ 

GO  Qj    _^    o 

■?   ^i^^   §   O 

•  ^   bC  >   O   bC  g 
■ti   G   o3   cc   G    t, 

"    CO  -^    5i    ^,  -iJ 

o  tS  ~-     ^ 

^    m   p   bC  c   CO 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1295 


The  effect  that  ions  can  have  on  cathode  life  was  clearly  demonstrated 
in  a  TWT  which  was  in  many  aspects  a  prototype  of  the  MI789.  This 
tube  operated  with  the  accelerator,  helix  and  collector  at  successively 
higher  voltages,  with  consequent  ion  draining  toward  the  cathode.  Severe 
ion  bombardment  of  the  cathode  brought  about  failure  of  most  of 
these  tubes  in  from  500  to  2,000  hours.  In  contrast  to  this  the  average 
life  of  the  M1789  is  in  excess  of  10,000  hours  in  spite  of  a  cathode  current 
density  about  twice  that  in  the  prototype  tube.  Moreover,  failure  of  the 
M1789  comes  about  from  exhaustion  of  coating  material  rather  than  as  a 
result  of  ion  bombardment.  During  the  course  of  the  work  of  the  proto- 
type tube,  an  experiment  was  performed  to  determine  how  much  the 
ion  bombardment  would  be  affected  by  changing  the  potential  dif- 
ference between  tube  electrodes.  In  this  experiment  a  small  hole  was 
drilled  in  the  center  of  the  cathode  and  an  ion  current  monitoring  elec- 
trode placed  behind  it.  The  ion  monitor  current  was  then  investigated  as 
a  function  of  electrode  voltages.  Fig.  6  shows  the  results.  We  see  that 
comparatively  small  potential  differences  are  adequate  to  control  the 
flow  of  positive  ions. 

3.2  The  Electron  Gun  and  Electron  Beam  Focusing 


The  electron  gun  used  in  the  MI789  is  a  converging  Pierce  gun.  The 
values  of  the  gun  parameters  are  summarized  in  Table  I.  Included  are 
both  the  original  parameters  introduced  by  Pierce  as  well  as  those  defined 
in  a  recent  paper  by  Danielson,  Rosenfeld  and  Saloom-  in  which  the 
effects  of  thermal  velocities  are  considered.  Fig.  7  shows  a  drawing  of 
the  electrically  significant  contours  of  the  J\II789  gun.  Fig.  8  shows  the 
completed  electron  gun  assembly.  The  method  of  constructing  the  gun  is 
a  modification  of  a  procedure  used  in  oscilloscope  and  television  picture 
tubes.  The  electrodes  are  drawn  parts  made  of  molybdenum  or,  in  the 
case  of  the  cathode,  of  nickel.  They  are  supported  by  rods  which  are  in 
turn  svipported  from  a  ceramic  platform  to  which  these  rods  are  glazed. 
The  whole  gun  structure  is  supported  from  the  end  of  the  helix  by  the 
helix  connector  detail.  Since  this  part  must  operate  at  helix  potential, 
it  is  insulated  from  the  remainder  of  the  gun  by  a  ceramic  cylinder  which 
is  glazed  both  to  it  and  to  the  accelerator. 

To  obtain  good  focusing,  the  cathode  must  be  accurately  aligned  with 
respect  to  the  other  electrodes.  However,  it  must  be  omitted  from  the 
gun  during  the  glazing  process  and  during  a  subsequent  vacuum  out- 
gassing  because  the  cathode  coating  cannot  withstand  the  temperatures 
involved.  To  insure  proper  placement  of  the  cathode  in  the  gun  assembly 


1296       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


ION 
COLLECTOR 
-20  VOLTS 


BEAM-FORMING 
^  ELECTRODE 
0   VOLTS 


COLLECTOR 

1600,1800  OR 

2000   VOLTS 


^^S9W<R)W^''-  timmmifMF-  ■ 


T 

CATHODE 
0   VOLTS 


ACCELERATOR 
1800  VOLTS 


HELIX 


l.U 

0.9 

1 

0.8 
0.7 

r\ 

0.6 

^ 

0.5 
0.4 

0.3 
0.2 

XL 

_-,/ 

ir" 

¥  N 

— i 

lA 

f 

N 

k  > 

\  1 
\\ 
/ 1 

/ 1 

1  1 

\ 

/(;=  18( 

DO  V 

f  1 

O.IO 
0.09 
0.08 

0.07 

0.06 

0.05 
0.04 

0.03 

/j 

.^^ 

1   \ 

.-^"' 

r    1 

'"2000  V 

^ ^ 

A 

a^ 

0.02 

— • — r 

16C 

1 " 

)0V       . 

1 1 

, .- 

-300 


-200  -100  0  100 

POTENTIAL    DIFFERENCE    BETWEEN    HELIX 
AND    ACCELERATOR    IN    VOLTS 


200 


Fig.  6  —  Effect  of  electrode  voltages  on  ion  bombardment  of  the  cathode  in  a 
prototype  of  the  M1789.  In  this  e.xperiment  the  helix  voltage  was  varied  while  the 
positive  ion  current  to  a  monitor  electrode  behind  a  hole  in  the  cathode  was  meas- 
ured. Curves  are  shown  for  the  collector  voltage  greater  than,  equal  to,  and  less 
than  the  accelerator  voltage.  During  this  experiment  the  accelerator  voltage  was 
held  constant  at  1800  volts  with  a  resulting  beam  current  of  40  ma.  The  experi- 
ment was  performed  on  a  continuously  pumped  sj'stem  with  the  pressure  main- 
tained at  2  X  10-'  mm  Hg.  The  helix  ID  was  80  mils,  the  cathode  diameter  300 
mils,  and  the  cathode  hole  diameter  20  mils.  These  curves  show  that  the  ion 
bombardment  of  the  cathode  can  be  reduced  by  as  much  as  a  factor  of  20  by  prop- 
erly arranging  the  voltage  profile. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE   FOR   6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY 


1297 


at  a  later  stage,  an  alignment  cylinder  is  included  in  the  gun  at  the  time 
of  glazing  (outer  cathode  alignment  cylinder  in  Fig.  8) .  When  the  gun  is 
ready  to  receive  the  cathode,  the  subassembly  shown  in  Fig.  9  is  slid 
into  the  outer  alignment  cylinder.  The  cathode  to  beam  forming  electrode 
spacing  is  set  using  a  toolmakers  microscope,  and  welds  are  made  be- 
tween the  inner  and  outer  aligmnent  cylinders. 

Initially,  we  thought  that  the  cathode  should  l)e  completely  shielded 
from  the  magnetic  field,  and  that  the  field  should  be  introduced  in  the 
region  between  the  accelerator  and  the  point  at  which  the  beam  would 
reach  its  minimum  diameter  in  the  absence  of  magnetic  field.  This  ar- 


// 

/ra=l9i 

/  / 

/      / 

ACCELERATOR     ;         /    > 

y//////////////////////////////^///^//y 


CATHODE 


\er r^  =192 >j 

(COATED    DIAMETER) 


Fig.  7  —  The  electricall.y  significant  contours  of  the  M1789  gun.  All  dimensions 
are  in  mils.  These  contours  were  determined  using  an  electrolytic  tank  and  follow- 
ing the  procedure  originated  by  Pierce.  The  measured  potential  at  the  beam  boun- 
dary in  the  tank  was  made  to  match  the  calculated  value  within  ±j  per  cent  of 
the  accelerator  voltage  to  within  10  mils  of  the  anode  plane.  The  aperture  in  the 
accelerator  was  made  sufficiently  large  so  that  substantially  no  beam  current  is 
intercepted  on  it.  The  significant  parameters  of  this  gun  are: 


P  =  0.3  X  10-«  amps/volts3/2  rel<y 

fc/l-a  =2.30  tr 

e   =  12.67°  7-95 

VvIrFk  =  lM{Tk  =  720°C)  J 


=  3.50         lAt    the    beam    mini- 
=  4.80  mils  [mum   in    absence    of 
=  20.5  milsj  magnetic  field 
=  213  ma/cm2 


1298       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


HELIX 

CONNECTOR 

TUBE 


HELIX  LEAD 
INSULATOR 
\ 


BEAM    FORMING 
ELECTRODE 


^-  GLAZE    BOND 

-ACCELERATOR 


1.64" 


CATHODE 
SUPPORT   WIRES, 
THREE   AT  120°    ~ 
SPACING 


i 


HELIX   LEAD- 


GLAZE    BONDS 


METAL   RIBBON    HAS  THREE    TABS 

AT  120°    SPACING    WHICH    ARE 

LATER    WELDED   TO    COUPLER    ON 

HELIX    ASSEMBLY 


SUPPORT    WIRES,  THREE 

CONNECTED  TO    EACH 

ELECTRODE 

AT  120°    SPACING 


-^  GLAZE    BONDS 


CERAMIC 
SUPPORT    PLATFORM 


HEATER 


CATHODE 


OUTER    CATHODE 
ALIGNMENT    CYLINDER 


-  —  INSULATOR 


---__       INNER    CATHODE 

ALIGNMENT  CYLINDER      | 


Fig.  8  —  M1789  electron  gun  assembly.  In  constructing  the  gun,  all  the  parts 
with  the  exception  of  the  cathode,  heater,  and  inner  support  cylinder  are  mounted 
on  a  mandrel  which  fixes  their  relative  positions.  Glass  powder  is  applied  to  the 
areas  where  glazed  joints  are  desired.  The  unit  is  then  heated  in  forming  gas 
(85%  No  ,15%  H2)  to  1.00°C  to  melt  the  glass  and  form  the  glazed  bonds.  With 
this  technique  the  precision  required  for  alignment  and  spacing  of  the  electrodes 
resides  entirely  in  the  tools.  The  helix  connector  tube  later  slides  into  the  coupler 
detail  of  Fig.  14  to  align  gun  and  helix  assemblies.  The  inner  and  outer  cathode 
alignment  cylinders  are  welded  together  at  two  points  at  the  end  remote  from  the 
cathode.  Optical  comparator  inspection  shows  that  the  significant  dimensions  of 
these  guns  are  held  to  a  tolerance  of  less  than  ±2  mils. 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY 


1299 


rangement  did  result  in  the  best  beam  transmission  to  the  collector. 
We  later  discovered,  however,  that  the  noise  on  the  electron  stream  be- 
came extremely  high  when  there  was  no  magnetic  flux  at  the  cathode. 
This  effect  will  be  discussed  further  in  Section  IV.  We  found  that  by 
having  a  flux  density  of  about  20  gauss  at  the  cathode,  the  noise  figure 
could  be  considerably  reduced  with  the  only  penalty  being  a  slight  in- 
crease in  interception  on  the  helix.  The  penalt^y  results  from  the  fact  that 
the  flux  linking  the  cathode  causes  a  reduction  in  the  angular  velocity  of 
the  electrons  in  the  helix  region  (from  Busch's  theorem),  and  this  in 
turn  diminishes  the  magnetic  focusing  force. 

Fig.  10  shows  the  distribution  of  axial  magnetic  field  in  the  gun  region. 
The  curve  represents  a  compromise  between  that  which  gives  best  fo- 
cusing (zero  flux  density  at  the  cathode)  and  that  which  gives  best 
noise  performance  (about  25  gauss  flux  density  at  the  cathode).  This 
flux  density  variation  was  arrived  at  by  empirical  methods. 


CATHODE 

SUPPORT  LEGS 

THREE  AT  120° 

SEPARATION 


HEATER T 


HEATER    LEAD 
INSULATOR 


CATHODE 


INNER  CATHODE 
-   ALIGNMENT 
CYLINDER 


METAL  TABS 

TO    HOLD 

HEATER    IN 

PLACE 


Fig.  9  —  The  cathode  subassembly.  In  this  unit  the  cathode  is  connected  to 
the  inner  alignment  cylinder  by  three  legs.  These  legs  are  first  welded  to  the  cath- 
ode and  then  oven  brazed  to  the  alignment  cylinder.  During  the  brazing,  a  jig 
holds  the  cathode  accurately  concentric  with  this  cylinder.  The  cathode  is  then 
coated  and  the  unit  is  ready  for  assembly  into  the  gun.  The  heater  power  required 
to  raise  the  cathode  to  its  operating  temperature  of  720°C  is  about  si.x  watts. 


1300       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Meaiirements  of  beam  interception  as  a  function  of  magnetic  flux 
density  are  sfiown  for  several  beam  currents  in  Fig.  1 1 .  These  measure- 
ments were  obtained  without  any  rf  input  to  the  TWT.  An  interesting 
way  of  normalizing  these  data  is  shown  in  Fig.  12.  Here  the  magnetic 


ACCELERATOR--.  ,  / 

/ 
/ 

CATHODE  ^  / 


^ 


MAGNET 
POLE    PIECE 


, HELIX    CONNECTOR 


^ 


_fou  0  tFffWwi)' 


BEAM- 
FORMING 
ELECTRODE 


in 


\///^////////A 


MAGNETIC 
M    SHIELD 


y////////////////////////////. 

800 
600 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

- 

y 

H^ 



400 
200 

- 

/ 

f- 

/ 

100 
80 

/ 

- 

i 

/ 

_ 

/ 

60 

/ 

/ 

40 

/ 

/ 

20 

y 

f 

/^ 

^"^ 

in 

/ 

-0.4  0  0.4  0.8  1,2 

DISTANCE    FROM    CATHODE    IN    INCHES 


1.6 


Fig.  10  —  Variation  in  magnetic  flux  density  as  a  function  of  distance  from  the 
cathode.  A  schematic  representation  of  the  gun  electrodes  and  of  the  magnetic 
parts  which  have  been  used  to  control  the  flux  is  also  shown.  All  the  elements  in- 
side the  tube  are  non-magnetic  so  that  the  flux  density  variation  is  determined 
entirely  by  magnetic  parts  external  to  the  tube  envelope.  The  flux  density  at  the 
cathode  is  built  up  (i.e.,  the  step  is  put  into  the  curve)  by  having  the  magnetic 
shield  end  near  the  cathode.  The  flux  which  leaves  the  shield  at  this  point  increases 
the  flux  density  at  the  cathode  over  what  it  would  be  if  the  shield  extended  well 
behind  the  cathode. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY 


1301 


flux  density  has  been  divided  by  the  Brillouin  flux  density  for  a  beam 
entirely  filling  the  helix.  This  quantity  is  the  minimum  flux  density 
which  could  theoretically  be  used  to  focus  the  beam.  This  normalization 
tends  to  bring  all  of  the  curves  together.  Thus  we  see  that,  although 
the  conditions  in  the  IMI789  are  far  from  those  of  ideal  Brillouin  flow 
(because  of  transverse  thermal  velocities,  aberrations  in  the  gun,  and 
magnetic  field  at  the  cathode),  the  concept  of  the  Brillouin  flux  density 
still  retains  meaning,  i.e.,  it  appears  that  the  flux  density  required  main- 
tains a  fLxed  ratio  to  the  Brillouin  value. 

Applying  sufficient  rf  input  to  the  MI789  to  drive  it  into  non-linear 
operation,  results  in  defocusing  caused  by  the  high  rf  fields  (both  from 
the  helix  wave  and  from  space  charge)  near  its  output  end.  Fig.  13  shows 
how  the  beam  interception  for  different  magnetic  flux  densities  varies  as 
a  function  of  the  power  output  of  the  TWT.  From  these  curves  we  see 
that  an  output  level  of  five  watts  can  be  maintained  with  about  one  per 
cent  interception  with  a  flux  density  of  600  gauss. 


6.( 
x 

_J 
m 
I  4.1 


z 
o 


a 

LU 


4.0 


3.5 


3.0 


I- 
z  2.5 

LU 

cr 
tr 

D 
U 


2.0 


5 
< 

LU 
OD 

U. 
O 


LU 


1.5 


1.0 


O  0.5 
tr 

UJ 

Q-      n 


1 

i 

40MA 

Va=  variable 

Vh  =  2400  VOLTS 
Vc=  1200  VOLTS 

20  MaI 

\" 

DMA 

\     1 

1  \ 

30M/1 

\ 

1        1 

c 

\      \ 

\\ 

\      ' 

\ 

\\ 

\ 
\ 

\ 

\ 

I         \ 

\ 
\ 

i       \ 

\ 

\] 

^ 
\ 

kl 

,N 

\ 

V 

\ 

^ 

1^ 

1 

fe^ 

w 

^ 

^ 

^—          — i 

^-,- 

200 


300 


400  500  600 

MAGNETIC    FLUX    DENSITY   IN  GAUSS 


700 


600 


Fig.  11  —  Per  cent  intercej^tion  on  the  helix  as  a  function  of  magnetic  flux 
density.  These  measurements  were  taken  using  a  precision  solenoid  to  focus  the 
TWT.  The  component  of  field  perpendicular  to  the  TWT  axis  was  less  than  0.1 
per  cent  of  the  longitudinal  field.  During  these  measurements  there  was  no  rf 
input  to  the  TWT  and  there  was  substantiallj-  no  (<0.1  ma)  interception  on  the 
accelerator  electrode. 


1302       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

3.3  The  Helix 

The  MI789  helix  assembly  is  a  rigid  self-supporting  structure  com- 
posed of  three  ceramic  support  rods  bonded  with  glaze  to  the  helix  wind- 
ing. A  drawing  of  the  helix  assembly  is  shown  in  Fig.  1-4.  The  support 
rods  are  made  from  Bell  Laboratories  F-66  steatite  ceramic.  This  material 
was  chosen  because  of  its  low  rf  losses  and  because  these  losses  do  not 
increase  rapidly  with  temperature.  Fig.  15  shows  an  enlarged  photograph 
of  the  glaze  bonds  between  the  winding  and  one  of  the  support  rods. 
Attenuation  is  applied  over  a  length  of  two  inches  starting  li-^  inches 
from  the  input  end  by  spraying  the  helix  assembly  with  aquadag  (carbon 
in  water  suspension)  and  then  baking  it. 

Supporting  the  winding  by  glazing  it  to  ceramic  support  rods  has  the 
following  advantages : 


4.5 


V  20  MA 

n  30  MA 

O  40  MA 

A  50  MA 

Va  =  VARIABLE 
Vh  =  2400  volts 
Vc=  1200  VOLTS 


0.5 


(.0  1.5  2.0  2.5  3.0 

MAGNETIC    FLUX    DENSITY 


3.5 


4.0 


BRILLOUIN     FLUX    DENSITY    FOR    BEAM    FILLING    HELIX 


Fig.  12  ^  The  measurements  of  Fig.  11  normalized  in  terms  of  the  Brillouin 
flux  density  for  a  beam  entirely  filling  the  helix.  The  fact  that  the  curves  tend  to 
come  together  indicates  that  the  concept  of  the  Brillouin  flux  density  retains  some 
meaning  in  the  M1789.  Because  of  the  additional  defocusing  effects  encountered 
when  the  M1789  is  driven  to  high  output  levels,  the  tube  is  usually  used  with 
about  2.6  times  the  Brillouin  flux  density. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR   6,000-MC   RADIO   RELAY 


1303 


(1)  The  dielectric  loading  and  intrinsic  attenuation  of  the  helix  are 
comparatively  low  because  the  amount  of  supporting  structure  in  the  rf 
fields  is  small. 

(2)  High  loss  per  unit  length  in  the  helix  attenuator  is  made  possible. 
The  reason  for  this  will  be  discussed  further  below. 

(3)  The  heat  dissipation  capability  of  the  helix  is  greatly  increased 
because  the  glaze  provides  an  intimate  thermal  contact  between  winding 
and  support  rods.  This  is  illustrated  by  Fig.  16  which  compares  the  heat 
dissipation  properties  of  glazed  and  non-glazed  helices. 

(4)  Mechanical  rigidity  is  realized  and  therefore  the  helix  can  be 
handled  without  risk  of  disturbing  the  pitch  or  diameter  of  the  winding. 

On  the  other  hand,  use  of  the  ceramic  rods  in  the  j\II789  has  a  signifi- 
cant disadvantage  in  that  it  makes  the  outside  radius  of  the  vacuum 
envelope  large  compared  to  the  helix  radius,  thus  making  coupled  helix 
matching  out  of  the  question.  However,  since  the  MI789  is  required  to 
match  over  less  than  a  10  per  cent  band,  this  is  not  particularly  serious. 

To  obtain  reproducibihty  of  performance  in  the  MI789,  the  helix 
must  be  precisely  constructed.  Together,  the  pitch  of  the  helix  and  the 
amount  of  dielectric  loading  determine  the  synchronous  voltage.  A 
pitch  variation  of  ±1  per  cent  results  in  a  voltage  variation  of  about 
±50  volts,  and  a  loading  variation  of  it  1  per  cent  results  in  a  variation 


»- 

ir  -■ 


m 
U 


LU 
CL 


y/sOO    GAUSS 

/^ 

6 

/ 

r 

i 

V 

y 

/ 

600 

y 

^ 

^ 

^ 

•  700 

2.5  5.0  7.5         10.0        12.5        15.0 

POWER    OUTPUT    IN    WATTS 


17.5       20.0 


Fig.  13  —  Per  cent  interception  on  the  helix  a.s  a  function  of  rf  power  output. 
These  measurements  were  made  u.sing  permanent  magnet  circuit.s  charged  to 
different  field  strengths.  The  magnetic  field  variation  as  a  function  of  distance 
from  the  cathode  was  as  shown  in  Fig.  10.  The  component  of  magnetic  field  per- 
pendicular to  the  tube  axis  in  these  circuits  was  less  than  0.2  per  cent  of  the  longi- 
tudinal field.  All  measurements  were  taken  with  a  beam  current  of  40  ma  and  with 
the  helix  voltage  adjusted  to  maximize  the  power  output. 


1304       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1950 


0)  03  (3  ro 

^  -C  --^  ■'^ 


mo 


faC«   "   O   „     - 


=«  g 


1_x  gS  =-« 


c3 

OJ 

c3 


N  ^    O)    _    O    ^    ni 


O 


bC 

03    ^ 


^ 

& 


CO 
O 


a 


O    ^    g    m    M 
o        '       ^ 


1-a 


-  0:1:    . 

0+^   03  _Q 


M^   03    ,. 

•r  e-=  03^ 


S^   bCO   03  M   i| 

~    OS  -is    te    03  CO       • 

"^   £   03   g  W)^ 

CO  . -.  -t^  H-J  --3  S    ,^ 

tn     _     C3  O     X 

O    O    „  .    -^ 


^.2 
oj'm 

03    CO 


to 


-^^03 

o  o 


a  03 


03 


03    W 


^  'S.  C  -t^P~--^  CO 
^  ^;g  'o  1^  3  ,2 
a^  ci-^  -g^-J.  "^ 

^  03    03    Sh       . 

^  tj  ;;3  o  -t-i  o 

03   c   >i+^     ^  > 

5^  o3  o  a3  e 
2j  a^g  ^.2§ 

ao  S  "1^  3  ^ 

03  C 
G  c3  _C  cS 
■r'  03  -»^ 

Si    .       03 


;;3  13 


03    X    -^ 

fl-e  CO 

Cl    P    03  O 


03 


a 


b  +-  .2  • 


CO 


.  (/3    . 


S  o 


•-H       O 


03 

cc 

03 

03 


6   03 

X' 

C  ^  03 
O  03  bC 
--^03 
C  -iJ 
«    03— H 


oj.i 


5  S  g^^  5P2 


oj  a  3 
S^  o  032  g 


.2    03    03 


^   03" 


c  o  0 


03-dH-=.>M 


_  "^^    03    tC 


r-     S     ^     flj    -^  '"^     03 


P     O     N    «       .^ 


M  o3 
bJD.S   m 


1h  .  X    03    O    (^  r, 


Oi  _o 


•—73-0    '^    tH    O    03^ 

•r  ra  x:  c3  c  °  o 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR   6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY  1305 

of  about  ±25  volts.  It  is  not  difficult  to  hold  the  average  pitch  variations 
to  less  than  d=l  per  cent.  The  loading,  however,  is  a  more  difficult  prob- 
lem for  not  only  must  the  dielectric  properties  of  the  support  rods  and  of 
the  glaze  material  be  closely  controlled,  but  attention  must  also  be  paid 
to  the  size  and  density  of  the  glaze  fillets.  The  gain  of  the  tube  is  affected 
by  the  amount  of  loss  in  the  helix  attenuator.  For  the  particular  loss 
distribution  used  in  the  MI789  a  variation  of  ±5  db  out  of  a  total 
attenuation  of  70  db  results  in  a  gain  variation  of  about  ±1  db.  The 
helix  attenuator  depends  to  a  large  extent  on  a  conducting  "bridge" 
between  helix  turns  and  therefore  the  amount  of  attenuation  is  sensitive 
to  the  size  and  the  surface  condition  of  the  glaze  fillets.  Thus,  the  glazing 
process  must  be  in  good  control  in  order  to  minimize  variations  in  both 
gain  and  operating  voltage.  With  our  present  techniques,  we  are  able  to 
hold  the  voltage  for  maximum  gain  to  within  ±50  ^'olts  of  the  nominal 
value.  The  gain  is  held  to  ±2  db  —  about  half  of  the  spread  we  believe 
to  be  caused  by  variations  in  loss  distribution  and  about  half  by  differ- 
ences in  beam  size. 


Fig.  15  —  Enlarged  photograph  of  part  of  an  M1789  helix.  Two  of  the  ceramic 
support  rods  can  be  seen.  The  other  is  directly  opposite  the  camera  behind  the 
lielix  and  is  out  of  focus.  The  fillets  of  glaze  which  bind  the  helix  to  the  rods  can 
he  seen  along  the  upper  rod.  This  section  of  helix  was  free  from  applied  loss. 


1306       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Helix-to-Waveguide  Matching 

In  the  helix-to-waveguide  transducer  the  hehx  passes  through  the 
center  of  the  broad  face  of  the  waveguide  and  energy  is  coupled  between 
helix  and  waveguide  by  an  antenna  and  matching  taper.  A  capacitive 
coupler  on  the  helix  and  an  rf  choke  on  the  waveguide  place  an  effective 
ground  plane  at  the  waveguide  end  of  the  antenna.  The  rf  choke  also 
assists  in  minimizing  leakage  of  rf  power.  Details  of  this  transducer  are 
shown  in  Figs.  5  and  14. 


600 


Hi 
Q 

< 

a. 

\- 
z 

o 

<n 

UJ 
HI 

o 


550 


500 


450 


400 


-  350 


LU 


300 


O 


liJ 


LU 

cc 

D 

< 

cc 

Q- 

LLI 

1- 


250 


200 


150 


iOO 


10  15  20  25 

POWER    INPUT    TO    HELIX    IN    WATTS 


Fig.  16  —  Comparison  of  heat  dissipation  properties  of  different  helix  struc- 
tures. In  this  experiment,  the  helices  were  heated  by  passing  dc  current  through 
them  while  they  were  mounted  in  a  vacuum.  The  temperature  was  determined 
from  the  change  in  helix  wire  resistance. 

Along  with  the  results  for  glazed  and  non-glazed  helices  in  a  normal  round 
envelope,  this  figure  shows  results  on  a  structure  consisting  of  a  glazed  helix  in  an 
envelope  which  has  been  shrunk  around  the  helix  support  rods.  This  technique 
produces  a  structure  which,  l)y  virtue  of  the  good  thermal  contact  between  the 
support  rods  and  the  envelope,  can  dissipate  more  power  than  the  conventional 
structure.  The  additional  complication  of  shrinking  the  envelope  is  not  necessary 
for  the  power  levels  used  in  the  IM1789.  However,  this  method  could  be  used  if  it 
were  necessary  to  extend  the  tube's  output  range  to  higher  power  levels. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR   6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY  1307 

ij     The  dimensions  of  this  transducer  were  determined  empirically.  It 

j  was  found  that  the  antenna  length  affects  mainly  the  conductive  com- 

!  ponent  of  the  admittance  referred  to  the  plane  of  the  helix.  The  length  of 

the  matching  taper  affects  mainly  the  susceptive  component,  and  the 

distance  from  helix  to  a  shorting  plunger,  which  closes  off  one  end  of  the 

waveguide,  affects  both  components.  If  for  each  tube,  the  position  of  the 

I  waveguides  along  the  axis  of  the  TWT  and  the  position  of  the  shorting 

plunger  are  optimized,  the  VSWR  of  the  transducers  will  be  less  than  1.1 

I  (~26  db  return  loss)  over  the  entire  500-mc  frequency  band.  With  these 

j  positions  fixed  at  their  best  average  value,  the  VSWR  will  be  less  than 

I  about  1.3  (--^IS  db  return  loss). 

Internal  Reiiections 

A  problem  that  has  required  considerable  effort  has  been  that  of 
"internal  reflections."  By  this  we  mean  reflections  of  the  rf  signal  from 
various  points  along  the  helix  as  contrasted  with  reflections  from  helix- 
to-waveguide  transducers.  The  principal  sources  of  internal  reflections 
are  the  edge  of  the  helix  attenuator  and  small  variations  in  pitch  along 
the  helix.  In  the  MI789  the  pitch  variations  are  the  main  source  of 
difficulty. 

The  type  of  performance  degradation  caused  by  small  internal  reflec- 
tions can  be  illustrated  by  the  following.  Consider  a  signal  incident  on 
the  TWT  output  as  a  result  of  a  reflection  from  a  radio  relay  antenna. 
Except  for  a  small  reflection  at  the  transducer,  energy  incident  on  the 
TWT  output  will  be  transferred  to  the  helix,  propagated  back  toward  the 
input,  and  for  the  most  part  be  absorbed  in  the  helix  attenuator.  How- 
ever, if  there  are  reflection  points  along  the  helix,  reflected  signals  will  be 
returned  to  the  output  having  been  amplified  in  the  process  by  the  TWT 
interaction.  Because  of  this  amplification,  even  a  small  reflection  of  the 
backward  traveling  wave  can  result  in  a  large  reflected  signal  at  the  TWT 
output.  In  the  MI789,  these  amplified  internal  reflections  are  con- 
siderably larger  than  the  reflection  from  the  output  transducer.  They 
limit  the  overall  output  VSWR  to  about  1.4,  whereas  the  transducer 
alone  has  a  VSWR  of  about  1.1. 

If  there  is  a  long  length  of  waveguide  between  the  TWT  and  the  an- 
tenna, the  echo  signal  resulting  from  a  reflection  at  the  antenna  and 
a  second  reflection  at  the  TWT  will  vary  in  phase  with  respect  to  the 
primary  signal  as  frequency  is  changed.  This  will  cause  ripples  in  both 
the  gain  and  in  the  phase  delay  of  the  system  as  functions  of  frequency. 
Suppose  the  VSWR  of  the  antenna  is  1.2  and  that  of  the  TWT  is  1.4 
and  the  two  are  separated  by  100  feet  of  w^aveguide.  The  amplitude  of 


1308       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


-a 
-4 

0 

t 

V 

i 

\ 

:3 

5     4 

^ 

\ 

I 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

lij 

"      8 

Z 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/n 

i 

1 

\ 

/ 

[ 

f 

\ 

LOSS 

i 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

I 

/ 

/ 

\ 

i  t6 

(- 

UJ 

/ 

\ 

y 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

/ 

\ 

20 

(5 

t) 

J 

/ 

\ 

V 

J 

i 

r 

\ 

24 

V 

y 

/ 

\ 

if 

\ 

28 

v/ 

4.4      4.6        4.8        5.0        5.2        5.4        5.6        5.8        6.0        6.2        6.4 

FREQUENCY   IN    KILOMEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


6.6 


6.8 


7.0 


PERIOD    OF     PITCH    DEVIATIONS 
0.450" »+« 0.445" 


■^- 


0.455" 


■-^ 


NOMINAL    TPI=  40 

EACH    POINT    REPRESENTS   ONE    TURN 


DISTANCE    ALONG    HELIX  > 

Fig.  17  —  Pitch  deviations  and  internal  reflections  in  an  early  M1789  TWT.  ■ 
The  ordinate  of  the  pitch  deviation  curve  is  the  difference  between  the  measured 
spacing  between  heli.v  turns  and  the  nominal  value,  which  for  this  particular 
helix  was  25  mils.  (The  tube  operated  at  1,600  volts.)  Each  point  represents  a  helix 
turn.  It  is  seen  that  the  pitch  deviations  are  periodic  in  nature,  repeating  about 
every  0.450  inch. 

The  internal  reflections  were  measured  by  matching  the  TWT  with  beam  off ' 
at  each  individual  frequency  with  a  tuner  to  a  VSWR  of  less  than  1.01  (return 
loss  greater  than  40  db).  The  beam  was  then  turned  on  and  the  resulting  reflection 
taken  as  an  approximate  measure  of  the  internal  reflection.  There  appeared  to  be 
no  appreciable  change  in  the  helix-to-waveguide  transducer  reflection  as  a  result 
of  turning  th(!  beam  on.  Evidence  for  this  is  the  fact  that  when  the  beam  was 
turned  on  with  the  lielix  voltage  adjusted  so  that  the  TWT  did  not  amplify,  there 
was  little  change  in  the  reflection. 

The  peaks  of  the  internal  reflection  curve  occur  at  five,  six  and  seven  half  wave- 
lengths i)er  i)eriod  of  the  helix  pitch  deviations,  indicating  that  the  reflections 
from  each  period  arc  adding  in  phase  at  these  frequencies.  At  the  5,800-mc  peak 
the  return  loss  is  positive.  This  indicates  a  reflected  signal  larger  than  the  incident 
signal.  Shorting  the  TWT  output  caused  the  tube  to  oscillate  at  this  frequency. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY  1309 

the  gain  fluctuations  will  be  about  0.25  db,  the  amplitude  of  the  phase 
I  fluctuations  will  be  about  0.9  degree  and  the  periodicity  of  the  fluctua- 
tions will  be  about  six  mc.  This  effect  may  be  eliminated  by  using  an 
I  isolator  between  the  TWT  and  the  antenna  to  eliminate  the  echo  signal. 
I      In  addition  to  echo  signals  that  occur  between  the  TWT  and  the 
1  antenna  there  are  echoes  which  occur  wholly  within  the  TWT  as  a  result 
of  a  reflection  of  the  signal  from  the  output  transducer  and  a  second 
reflection  from  some  point  along  the  helix.  Thus  even  if  a  TWT  is  operat- 
ing into  a  matched  load  it  may  have  ripples  in  gain  or  phase  characteris- 
tics. These  ripples  may  be  controlled  by  minimizing  the  internal  re- 
flections. In  the  MI789  they  are  less  than  ±0.1  db  in  gain  and  one-half 
degree  in  phase.  Their  periodicity  is  about  100  mc. 

In  addition  to  causing  transmission  distortions,  internal  reflections 
can  seriously  reduce  the  margin  of  a  TWT  against  oscillation.  Outside 
of  the  frequency  band  of  interest,  the  helix-to-waveguide  transducer 
may  be  a  poor  match  or  the  TWT  may  even  be  operating  into  a  short 
circuit  in  the  form  of  a  reflection  type  bandpass  filter.  At  such  fre- 
quencies, the  internal  reflections  must  not  be  large  enough  so  that  an 
echo  between  transducer  or  filter  and  an  internal  reflection  point  will 
see  any  net  gain,  or  else  the  TWT  will  oscillate. 

With  many  types  of  helix  winding  equipment,  variations  in  helix 
pitch  are  periodic  in  nature.  This  causes  the  helix  to  exhibit  a  filter-like 
behavior  with  respect  to  internal  reflections.  At  frequencies  at  which 
the  period  of  the  pitch  variations  is  an  integral  number  of  half-wave 
lengths,  the  resultant  reflections  from  each  individual  period  will  add  in 
phase,  thereby  causing  the  helix  to  be  strongly  reflecting  at  these  fre- 
quencies. This  effect  can  perhaps  best  be  illustrated  by  considering  some 
results  obtained  in  an  early  stage  of  the  MI789  development.  Fig.  17 
shows  measurements  of  the  spacing  between  turns  of  an  early  helix. 
Also  shown  is  the  return  loss  as  a  function  of  frequency  that  a  signal 
incident  on  the  output  of  an  operating  TWT  would  see  as  a  result  of 
internal  reflections  alone.  Helix-to-waveguide  transducer  reflections  were 
eliminated  with  waveguide  tuners  during  this  experiment.  The  deviations 
in  helix  pitch  from  nominal  are  rather  large  and  are  markedly  periodic 
in  nature.  The  resulting  internal  reflections  show  strong  peaks  at  fre- 
quencies corresponding  to  five,  six  and  seven  half-wavelengths  per 
period  of  the  pitch  deviations. 

In  the  present  M1789  this  situation  has  been  considerably  improved 
b}^  increased  precision  in  helix  winding  and  by  insuring  that  the  re- 
maining periodicity  does  not  produce  a  major  reflection  peak  in  the  band. 
Fig.  18  shows  pitch  measurements  and  internal  reflections  for  a  recently 
constructed  tube. 


1310      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


(6 


cc  ~ 


30 


/^^ 

\ 

\ 

\, 

/ 

\ 

/ 

\ 

s^ 

^ 

J\ 

VJ 

/ 

v„ 

5.0 


5.5 
FREQUENCY 


IN 


6.0  6.5 

KILOMEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


7.0 


7.5 


01 


Z 

o 

> 

ai 
o 


-1 


t  -2 


NOMINAL  TPI  =  34 

\  / 

k^ 

kj 

■V 

S. 

.^\v- 

A, 

/\ 

A , 

^,^/XM 

^ 

\    ^ 

\.^ 

^0^ 

s. 

V 

V 

Twy*- 

1 

V 

\jf 

V^ 

DISTANCE    ALONG    HELIX    (EACH    POINT    REPRESENTS    ONE     TURN) 


Fig.  18  —  Pitch  deviations  and  internal  reflections  in  a  recent  M1789  TWT. 
By  precise  helix  winding  techniques  the  pitch  deviations  have  been  reduced  by  a  i 
factor  of  about  10  over  those  occurring  in  early  tubes.  The  resulting  internal  re- 
flections have  been  improved  by  about  25  db  although  there  is  still  a  residual 
periodicity  remaining. 

For  return  losses  greater  than  about  25  db,  we  begin  to  see  internal  reflections 
originating  from  the  edge  of  the  heli.\  attenuator.  At  these  values  of  return  loss, 
the  measurements  also  begin  to  be  in  appreciable  error  as  a  result  of  the  residual 
transducer  reflections. 

Helix  Attenuator 

Attenuation  is  applied  to  the  helix  by  spraying  aquadag  directly  on 
the  heUx  assembly  and  then  baking  it.  The  result  is  a  deposit  of  carbon  on 
the  ceramic  rods  and  on  the  glaze  fillets.  The  attenuation  is  held  between 
65  and  80  db  and  is  distributed  as  shown  in  Fig.  19.  Evidently  most  of 
the  loss  is  caused  by  a  conducting  bridge  which  is  built  up  between 
helix  turns.  This  was  indicated  by  one  experiment  in  which  we  cleaned 
the  deposit  off  the  rods  of  a  helix  by  rubbing  them  with  emery  paper. 
Only  the  carbon  directly  between  helix  turns  then  remained.  This  de- 
creased the  total  attenuation  by  less  than  20  per  cent.  Having  the  helix 
glazed  to  the  support  rods  is  apparently  necessary  in  order  to  get  good 
contact  between  the  winding  and  the  carbon  "bridge."  We  have  been 
able  to  obtain  about  four  times  as  much  loss  per  unit  length  with  glazed 
hehces  as  with  non-glazed  ones.  Using  our  method  of  applying  attenua- 
tion we  can  add  in  excess  of  80  db/inch  to  a  glazed  helix.  The  ability  to 
obtain  such  high  rates  of  attenuation  allows  us  to  concentrate  the  loss 
along  the  helix  thereby  minimizing  the  TWT  length. 

The  machine  used  for  spraying  aquadag  on  the  helix  is  shown  in  Fig. 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1311 

20.  A  glass  cylinder  and  photocell  arrangement  is  used  to  monitor  the 
amount  of  carbon  deposited.  In  this  manner  the  attenuation  added  is 
made  independent  of  both  the  aquadag  mixture  and  the  nozzle  setting 
of  the  spray  gun.  This  machine  has  been  checked  alone  by  using  it  to 
spray  glass  slides  which  are  then  made  into  attenuator  vanes.  Over  a 
two-year  period  we  have  found  that  a  gi\'en  light  transmission  through 
the  monitor  slide  results  in  the  same  vane  attenuation  within  ±2  db  out 
of  40  db. 

After  a  helix  has  been  sprayed,  it  is  vacuum  fired  at  800°C  for  thirty 
minutes  and  then  the  loss  is  measured.  About  60  per  cent  of  the  helices 
fall  within  the  desired  range  of  65-80  db.  The  principal  cause  of  the 
differences  in  attenuation  is  believed  to  be  variation  in  the  condition  of 
the  glaze  fillets.  Helices  not  meeting  specifications  are  sprayed  and  fired 
a  second  time  (after  cleaning  off  excess  acpadag  if  necessary) .  This  second 
treatment,  brings  the  attenuation  of  almost  all  helices  to  within  the 
desired  range. 

3.4  The  Collector 

It  is  desirable  to  operate  the  collector  at  the  lowest  possible  voltage 
in  order  to  minimize  the  dc  power  input  to  the  TWT.  This  increases  the 
overall  efficiency  and  simplifies  the  collector  cooling  problem.  On  the 


-J-    lUU 

u 

z 

S     75 
Q. 

to 

i    50 
u 

LU 

Q 

2     25 

10 

f) 
o 
-J       0 

1 

j 

\ 

\ 

\ 

0.5       1.0 


1.5        2.0       2.5       3.0        3.5 
DISTANCE   FROM   INPUT 


HELIX   INPUT 


4.0       4.5       5.0 


HEL 


5.5 

t 
X   OUTPUT 


Fig.  19  —  Distribution  of  helix  attenuation.  The  attenuation  pattern  has  a 
gradually  slanting  edge  facing  the  output  to  provide  a  smooth  transition  into  the 
loss  for  any  signals  traveling  backwards  toward  the  input.  Reflections  of  these 
signals  must  be  \evy  small  since  the  reflected  signals  will  be  amplified  in  the 
process  of  returning  toward  the  output.  Cold  measurements  (i.e.,  measurements 
on  the  heli.x  without  electron  beam)  made  by  moving  a  sliding  termination  inside 
the  helix,  indicate  that  the  return  loss  from  the  attenuator  output  is  better  than 
45  db,  the  limiting  sensitivity  of  our  measurement.  The  input  side  of  the  helix 
attenuator  is  also  tapered  to  minimize  reflections  but  this  taper  is  much  sharper 
than  that  on  the  output  side  because  there  is  comparatively  little  gain  lietween 
input  and  attenuator.  Cold  measurements  with  a  sliding  termination  showed  a 
return  loss  for  this  taper  of  about  40  db.  (Surprisingly,  even  a  sharp  edge  pro- 
duces a  reflection  with  a  return  loss  of  almost  30  db.) 


1312       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

other  hand,  if  there  is  appreciable  potential  difference  between  helix 
and  collector,  we  must  insure  that  few  secondary  or  reflected  electrons 
return  from  the  collector  to  bombard  the  helix  and  accelerator,  or  else 
we  may  overheat  these  electrodes.  Fig.  21  shows  a  drawing  of  the  col-- 
lector  used  in  the  M1789.  It  takes  the  form  of  a  long  hollow  cylinder 
shielded  from  the  magnetic  field.  Inside  of  the  collector  the  beam  is 
allowed  to  gradually  diverge  and  the  electrons  strike  the  walls  at  a  graz- 
ing angle.  This  design  reduces  secondary  electrons  returned  from  the 
collector  to  almost  negligible  proportions. 


^CYLINDRICAL 
'  GLASS   SLIDE 


PHOTOCELL 


Fig.  20  —  Schematic  diagram  of  the  machine  used  for  .spra.ying  aquadag  attenu- 
ation on  the  helix.  In  this  machine  the  helix  is  rotated  rapidly  to  insure  uniform 
exposure  to  the  spray.  At  the  same  time  the  masking  drum  rotates  at  a  slower 
speed  and  the  spra}-  gun  traverses  back  and  forth  along  the  masking  drum.  The 
drum  therefore  acts  as  a  revolving  shutter  between  the  helix  and  the  spray  gun 
and  its  degree  of  opening  serves  to  control  the  amount  of  aquadag  reaching  the 
helix.  From  a  knowledge  of  the  rate  of  attenuation  increase  as  a  function  of  the 
amount  of  carbon  deposited  (empirically  determined)  the  shape  of  the  drum  open- 
ing can  he  calculated  so  as  to  give  any  desired  attenuation  pattern. 

The  spray  gun  also  passes  over  a  glass  cylinder  at  one  end  of  the  masking  drum 
so  that  it  receives  a  sample  of  the  aquadag  spray.  A  photocell  is  used  to  monitor 
light  transmitted  through  the  cylinder.  Before  starting  to  spray,  the  glass  is 
cleaned  and  the  photocell  reading  is  taken  as  100  j)er  cent  light  transmission. 
The  helix  is  then  sprayed  until  the  light  transmission  has  decreased  to  the  proper 
value.  The  photoelectric  monitoring  techniciue  makes  the  attenuation  added  in- 
sensitive to  the  aquadag  composition  and  to  the  spray  gun  nozzle  opening. 


TRAVELING    WAVE    TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY 


1313 


O    QJ    03    <B 
-    cc   Oj   S 


o       o  o      c 

o       o  o 

n       (\j  — 

SSnVO  Nl  AIISNHQ  xn~id 


II 


1314       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Fig.  22  shows  the  total  accelerator  and  helix  interception  as  functions 
of  collector  voltage  at  various  output  levels.  When  there  is  no  rf  drive, 
the  intercepted  current  remains  low  to  a  collector  voltage  of  about  200 
volts  at  which  point  it  suddenly  increases  to  a  high  value.  This  appears 
to  be  caused  by  the  phenomenon  of  space  charge  blocking.  As  the  col- 
lector voltage  is  progressively  lowered,  the  space  charge  density  at  the 
mouth  of  the  collector  increases  because  of  the  decrease  in  electron 
velocity  at  this  point.  Increasing  the  charge  density  causes  the  potential 
depression  in  the  beam  to  increase  until  at  some  collector  voltage  the 
potential  on  the  axis  is  reduced  to  cathode  potential.  At  collector  voltages 
lower  than  this,  some  of  the  beam  is  blocked,  i.e.,  it  is  turned  back  by  the 
space  charge  fields. 

When  the  TWT  is  operated  at  appreciable  rf  output  levels,  the  col- 
lector voltage  must  be  increased  to  permit  collection  of  all  electrons 
which  have  been  slowed  down  by  the  rf  interaction.  Unfortunately,  some 
electrons  are  slowed  far  more  than  is  the  average,  so  that  we  must  supply 
to  the  TWT  several  times  more  dc  power  than  we  can  take  from  it  in  the 
form  of  rf  power.  However,  as  seen  from  Fig.  22,  there  is  still  an  apprecia- 
ble advantage  to  be  gained  by  operating  the  collector  at  lower  than  helix 
potential.  These  curves  should  not  be  taken  as  an  accurate  measure  of 
the  velocity  distribution  because  there  are  undoubtedly  space  charge 
blocking  effects  which  even  at  higher  collector  voltages  have  some  in- 
fluence on  the  number  of  electrons  returned  from  the  collector.  This 
arises  from  the  fact  that  the  rf  interaction  causes  an  axial  bunching  of 
the  electrons,  thereby  causing  the  space  charge  density  in  an  electron 
bunch  to  be  much  higher  than  it  is  in  an  unmodulated  beam.  Thus,  as  a 
bunch  enters  the  collector,  the  local  space  charge  density  may  be  high 
enough  to  return  some  electrons. 

IV.    PERFORMANCE    CHARACTERISTICS 

4.1  Method  of  Approach 

In  this  section  we  will  consider  the  overall  rf  performance  of  the 
Ml 789  and  make  some  comparisons  between  theory  and  observed  re- 
sults. The  following  TWT  parameters  can  be  varied:  input  level;  helix 
voltage;  beam  current;  frequency;  and  magnetic  field.  Our  approach 
here  will  be  to  first  consider  the  operation  of  the  tube  under  what  might 
be  called  nominal  conditions.  This  will  be  followed  by  a  discussion  of  the 
variations  in  low-level  gain  and  in  maximum  output  over  an  extended 
range  of  beam  current,  frequency,  and  magnetic  field.  By  this  procedure 
we  are  able  to  obtain  a  description  of  tube  performance  without  presenta- 
tion of  a  formidable  number  of  curves.  Two  topics,  noise  and  inter- 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1315 


20 


18 


16 


14 


12 


10 


< 

HI 
CD 

LL 
O 

I- 

z 

LU 

u 

a. 

m 

Q. 


1 

? 

1 

\  10  WATTS 
\  OUTPUT 

\ 

lj 

1 

\ 

1 

NO  RF      ! 
OUTPUT 

\ 

V 

\ 

1 

\ 

\ 

i 

i 

1 

^o-< 

\ 

J^ 

—Wl— 

"^^^^^ 

r   _-; 

0.2  0.4         0.6  0.8  1.0  1.2  1.4  1.6 

COLLECTOR    VOLTAGE    IN    KILOVOLTS 


1.8 


2.0 


2.2 


Fig.  22  —  Intercepted  current  as  a  function  of  collector  voltage  with  helix  and 
accelerator  voltages  held  constant  at  their  nominal  values.  Below  the  knee  of  the 
curves  about  three  quarters  of  the  total  intercepted  current  goes  to  the  heli.x  and 
about  one  quarter  is  focused  all  the  way  back  to  the  accelerator.  Curves  are  shown 
for  no  rf  input  and  for  output  levels  of  1,  5,  and  10  watts.  With  no  input,  the  lowest 
permissible  collector  voltage  is  determined  by  the  phenomenon  of  space  charge 
blocking.  With  rf  input,  it  is  determined  mainly  b3'  the  velocity  spread  of  the 
electrons.  In  all  cases  it  was  found  that  the  alignment  of  the  TWT  with  respect 
to  the  magnetic  circuit  becomes  more  critical  as  the  knee  of  the  curve  is  ap- 
proached. For  this  reason  the  M1789  is  usually  operated  with  a  collector  voltage 
about  200  volts  above  the  knee. 

modulation,  will  be  divorced  from  the  discussion  as  outlined  above  and 
treated  separately  in  Sections  4.4  and  4.5. 


4.2  Operation  Under  Nominal  Conditions 

Basic  Characteristics 

By  nominal  conditions  for  the  Ml 789  we  mean  the  following: 

frequency 6175  mc   (band  center) 

beam  current 40  ma 

magnetic  flux  density 600  gauss 

collector    voltage 1200   volts 


1316       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Fig.  23(a)  shows  representative  curves  of  output  power  as  a  function  of 
input  power  for  several  values  of  helix  voltage.  This  information  is  re 
plotted  in  Fig.  23(b)  in  terms  of  gain  as  a  function  of  output  power.  We 
see  that  the  TWT  operates  as  a  linear  amplifier  for  low  output  levels. 
As  the  output  level  is  increased,  the  tube  goes  into  compression  and* 
finally  a  saturation  level  is  reached.  The  maximum  gain  at  low  input 
levels  is  obtained  with  a  helix  voltage  of  2,400  volts  (about  10  per  cent 
higher  than  the  synchronous  voltage  because  of  space  charge  effects). 


2 

a 


3 
CL 


O 


50 


45 


40 


35 


30 


5 

o 

Q-      25 


20 


Z 

o 
<n 
If) 
lii 
cc 

Q. 

5 
o 
u 

I- 
z 

LU 
L> 

a. 

LU 
CL 


(a) 

/    A    A   / 

40         35         30        25 

GAIN   IN    DECIBFt  S 

-r^ 

38-t] 

f=^ 

A 

H 

h 

r^i 

S — 

2400      / 
VOLT^/ 

^ 

V 

K 

yi 

600/1 

1100 

A 

/ 

/ 

150 

100 

50 

0 

-50 

1 

(c) 

INVE 
1 
I 

1 

=tSION 

2400 

VOLTS 

y 

A 

1 

COMF 

'RESS 

ON 

A 

y 

I 

1 
1 
1 

t 

^_^ 

k 

ir^ 

V 

^600 

/  2" 

'00 

EXPA 
1 

u 

SISiON 

'i' — H 

r^-^ 

U-^ 

15.0 


Z        12,5 

o_i 

S.v,  10.0 


Z' 

Q-  U1 
I    LU 

QUJ 

HCC 
I    15 

5liJ 


7.5 


5.0 


2.5 


(e) 

2700    /\ 
VOLTSy^     ^ 

\ 

K 

\ 

/ 

2600) 

\ 

/ 

V 

\ 

\ 

1 

r^ 

^ 

A 

\2400 

15.0 


zCi 

I    LU 
OLU 

I  e> 
51U 


12.5 


10.0 


7.5 


5.0 


2.5 


-15 


-10 


-5  0  5  10  15 

POWER    INPUT   IN    DBM 


20 


25 


0 
28 


(f) 

/ 

2700     / 
VOLTSy^ 

2( 

5ooyC 

P^ 

Pi 

-^ 

^ 

^ 

1 

^,-1 


30  32         34         36         38 

POWER    OUTPUT   IN    DBM 


Fig.  23  —  See  opposite  page  for  caption 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  G,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY      1317 

The  maximum  output  at  saturation  is  obtained  at  a  higher  helix  voltage 
as  is  common  in  TWT's.  The  helix  voltage  also  affects  the  shape  of  the 
input-output  curves  —  linear  operation  being  maintained  to  higher 
output  levels  at  higher  helix  voltages. 

As  a  measure  of  the  efficiency  of  electronic  interaction  in  a  TWT,  we 
use  an  "electronic  efficiency"  which  is  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  rf  out- 
put power  to  the  beam  power  (product  of  helix  voltage  and  beam  cur- 
rent). The  "over-all  efficiency"  we  define  as  the  ratio  of  the  rf  output 
power  to  the  total  dc  power  (exclusive  of  heater  power)  delivered  to 
the  tube.  With  the  collector  operated  at  1,200  volts,  it  is  about  twice  the 
electronic  efficiency.  For  the  M1789,  maximum  efficiency  occurs  at  the 
saturation  level  with  a  helix  voltage  of  2,600  volts.  The  electronic  and 
over-all  efficiencies  there  are  equal  to  about  14  per  cent  and  28  per  cent, 
respectively. 

The  curves  of  Figs.  23(a)  and  (b)  were  taken  with  sufficient  time  al- 
lowed for  the  tube  to  stabilize  at  each  power  level.  If  the  TWT  is  driven 
to  a  high  output  level  after  having  been  operated  for  several  minutes 
'  with  no  input  signal,  the  output  will  be  somewhat  greater  than  is  shown 
'  in  the  curves.  It  will  gradually  decrease  until  it  reaches  a  stable  level  in  a 
period  of  about  two  minutes.  This  "fade"  is  caused  by  an  increase  in  the 
intrinsic  attenuation  of  the  helix  near  the  output  end.  The  increase  is  a 
result  of  heating  from  rf  power  dissipation.  At  maximum  output  the 
fade  is  about  0.6  db  (about  15  per  cent  decrease  in  output  power).  At 

the  five-watt  output  level  the  fade  is  about  0.1  db  (about  2  per  cent 

.(  — — ■ ' 

Fig.  33  —  See  opposite  page 

j  -c:  (a)  Output  power  as  a  function  of  input  power.  Both  ordinate  and  abscissa  are 
in  dbm  (db  with  respect  to  a  reference  level  of  one  milliwatt).  A  straight  line  at 
45°  represents  a  constant  gain.  A  gain  scale  is  included  along  the  top  of  the  figure. 
For  this  tube  a  helix  voltage  of  2,400  volts  gives  maximum  gain  at  low  signal  levels 
and  a  voltage  of  about  2,600  gives  maximum  output  at  saturation. 

(b)  Gain  as  a  function  of  output  power.  This  is  an  alternate  way  of  presenting 
the  information  shown  in  (a). 

(c)  Compression  as  a  function  of  input  power.  Three  regions  are  shown  in  the 
figure.  The  "compression"  region  is  that  in  which  there  is  less  than  one  db  change 
in  output  level  for  a  db  change  in  input  level.  The  "expansion"  region  is  that  in 
which  there  is  more  than  one  db  change  in  output  level  for  a  db  change  in  input 
level.  The  "inversion"  region  is  that  in  which  the  output  level  decreases  when 
the  input  level  increases  (or  vice  versa).  It  occurs  for  input  levels  greater  than 
that  necessarj^  to  drive  the  TWT  to  saturation.  In  this  region  the  change  in  out- 
put is  of  opposite  sign  to  the  change  in  input.  Using  the  definition  in  the  text  this 
gives  rise  to  compression  values  in  excess  of  100  per  cent. 

(d)  Compression  as  a  function  of  output  power. 

(e)  Conversion  of  amplitude  modulation  to  phase  modulation  as  a  function  of 
input  power.  This  conversion  arises  because  the  electrical  length  of  the  TWT  is  a 
function  of  the  input  level.  The  effect  can  cause  rather  serious  difficulties  in  cer- 
tain types  of  low  index  FM  systems. 

(f)  Conversion  of  amplitude  modulation  to  phase  modulation  as  a  function  of 
output  power. 


1318      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

decrease  in  output  power).  We  will  present  some  additional  data  on  this 
effect  in  Section  4.3. 

Distortion  of  the  Modulation  Envelope 

The  curves  of  Figs.  23(a)  and  (b)  tell  what  happens  when  a  single 
frequency  carrier  signal  is  passed  through  the  TWT.  In  addition  we 
would  like  to  know  the  effect  on  modulation  which  may  be  present  on 
the  signal.  In  particular,  it  is  desirable  to  know  the  compression  of  the 
envelope  of  an  AM  signal  and  the  amount  of  phase  modulation  generated 
in  the  output  signal  as  a  result  of  amplitude  modulation  of  the  input 
signal,  (an  effect  commonly  known  as  A]\I-to-PM  conversion).  As  a 
measure  of  compression  of  an  AM  signal  the  quantity  per  cent  com- 
pression will  be  used.  This  is  defined  as 


%  Compression 


AV,/V,_ 


100 


where  Vo  is  the  voltage  of  the  output  wave,  Vi  is  the  voltage  of  the 
input  wave,  and  AYo  is  the  change  in  output  voltage  for  a  small  change 
AVi  in  the  input  voltage.  When  AF/F  is  small  it  can  be  expressed  in  db 
as  8.68  AF/F  =  AF/F  in  db.  From  this  it  follows  that 


%  Compression 


1 =-  >  ni  do 

APi 


100 


where  APo  is  the  change  in  output  power  for  a  change  APi  in  input  power, 
and  the  two  powers  are  measured  on  a  db  scale.  When  the  per  cent 
compression  is  zero  the  TWT  is  operating  as  a  linear  amplifier;  when  it 
is  100  per  cent  the  TWT  is  operating  as  a  limiter. 

From  the  above  expression  it  may  appear  that  the  per  cent  compres- 
sion could  be  determined  directly  from  the  slopes  of  the  input-output 
curves.  This  would  be  the  case  were  it  not  for  fading  effects.  Since  there 
is  fading,  however,  the  slope  for  rapid  input  level  changes  is  different  at 
high  levels  from  the  slope  of  the  static  curves.  Thus  it  is  necessary  to 
determine  compression  from  the  resulting  effect  on  an  AM  signal. 

The  electrical  length  of  a  TWT  operated  in  the  non-linear  region  is  1 1  > 
some  extent  dependent  on  the  input  level.  Therefore,  an  AM  signal  ap- 
plied to  the  input  of  the  TWT  will  produce  phase  modulation  (PM)  of 
the  output  signal.  This  effect  ma}^  be  of  particular  concern  when  a  TWT 
operating  at  high  output  levels  is  used  to  amplify  a  low-index  FM  signal. 
If  such  a  signal  contains  residual  amplitude  modulation,  the  TWT 
generates  phase  modulation  with  phase  deviation  proportional  to  the 
input  amplitude  variation.  Under  certain  circumstances  this  can  cause 


TRAVELING    WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY 


1319 


severe  interference  with  the  signal  being  transmitted.  We  wU  discuss  a 
particular  example  after  consideration  of  the  compression  and  AM-to- 
PM  conversion  characteristics  of  the  M1789. 

As  in  the  case  of  compression,  we  must  measure  AM-to-PM  conversion 
dynamically.  This  is  necessary  because  point-by-point  measurements  of 
the  shift  in  output  phase  as  input  level  is  changed  include  a  component  of 
phase  shift  caused  by  changes  in  temperature  of  the  ceramic  support 
rods  and  a  consequent  change  in  their  dielectric  constant.  However, 
this  thermal  effect  does  not  follow  AM  rates  of  interest  and  therefore 
does  not  produce  AM-to-PM  conversion. 

Fig.  24  shows  a  simplified  block  diagram  of  the  test  set  used  to  measure 
compression  and  AM-to-PM  conversion.  This  equipment  amplitude 
modulates  the  input  signal  to  the  TWT  under  test  by  a  known  amount 
and  detects  the  AM  in  the  output  signal  with  a  crystal  monitor  and  the 
PM  with  a  phase  bridge.  A  more  complete  discussion  of  this  measurement 
is  given  by  Augustine  and  Slocum.^ 

Compression  is  given  as  a  function  of  power  input  in  Fig.  23(c)  and 
as  a  function  of  power  output  in  Fig.  23(d).  We  see  that  compression 
sets  in  more  suddenly  at  higher  helix  voltages.  Above  about  2,500  volts 


REFERENCE 
PHASE 


PHASE  SHIFTER 


SIGNAL 
SOURCE 


.1 


H 


AMPLITUDE 
MODULATOR 


HYBRID 
JUNCTION 


PHASE 
BRIDGE 


OSCILLO- 
SCOPE 


TRAVELING- 
WAVE   TUBE 


Fig.  24  —  Simplified  block  diagram  of  test  set  used  to  measure  compression  and 
conversion  of  amplitude  to  phase  modulation.  A  ferrite  modulator  introduces  one 
db  of  60  cps  amplitude  modulation  into  the  test  signal.  The  60  cps  rate  is  much 
higher  than  that  which  can  be  followed  by  thermal  changes  in  the  TWT.  Half  of 
the  modulated  signal  serves  as  input  to  the  TWT  under  test  and  half  serves  as  a 
reference  phase  for  a  phase  detector.  The  signals  at  the  phase  detector  input  are 
maintained  equal  and  at  constant  level  and  nominally  in  phase  quadrature.  The 
detector  is  essentially  a  bridge  circuit,  the  output  of  which  is  a  dc  voltage  propor- 
tional to  the  phase  difference  of  the  two  inputs.  When  operated  with  inputs  in 
quadrature  it  is  not  sensitive  to  amplitude  changes  of  as  much  as  two  db  in  either 
or  both  inputs.  Phase  modulation  introduced  by  the  amplitude  modulator  appears 
at  both  inputs  and  thus  does  not  produce  an  indication.  The  output  of  the  de- 
tector is  therefore  a  direct  measure  of  the  phase  modulation  created  in  the  TWT. 
Compression  is  determined  by  comparing  the  percentage  amplitude  modulation 
at  the  input  and  output  crystal  monitors. 


1320       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

35.0 


Z 

g 
m 
a  12.50 

UJ 

> 

2 

q  11.25 

2 

Q.   10.00 
I 

o 


5 
< 


5.00"- 


32.5 
30.0 


I      8.75  -    CD  27.5 


O 

7.50  h    '='  25.0 

Z 

6.25  I-    Z  22.5 


< 


20.0 
17.5 

15.0 
2200 


/ 

r 

(b) 

GAIN^ 

• 

r*"" 

"^ 

< 

1 
1 

1 

c 

Y 

N 

\, 

1 

CONVERSION 

k 

compression\ 

N 

i 

J 

H 

1 

f\ 

I 

r 

1 

^*v.^ 

1 

> 

\ 

'    1 

N 

^ 

2300  2400  2500  2600 

HELIX    VOLTAGE    IN    VOLTS 


2700 


100  9 
in 

LU 

75  Q: 
Q. 

50  8 

I- 

25  5 
O 

o5 

2800     II- 


Fig.  25  —  Gain,  compression  and  amplitude  to  phase  conversion  as  a  function 
of  heli.x  voltage  with  the  output  power  maintained  constant  at  a  level  of  five 
watts  (a)  and  ten  watts  (b). 


there  is  expansion  for  some  values  of  power  input.  Figs.  23  (e)  and  23(f) 
give  the  AM-to-PM  conversion,  as  functions  of  input  and  output  power 
respectively.  These  data  indicate  that  the  conversion  is  very  much  less 
if  the  tube  is  operated  at  lower  helix  voltages.  For  example,  the  con- 
version at  the  saturation  level  of  the  2, 700- volt  curve  is  about  2^  times 
that  for  the  2, 400- volt  curve. 

A  final  method  of  plotting  gain,  compression,  and  AM-to-PM  con- 
version data  is  shown  in  Fig.  25.  The  abcissa  here  is  the  helix  voltage. 


TRAVELING    WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY  1321 

For  these  measurements  power  output  was  held  constant  by  adjusting 
input  level  at  each  voltage.  The  figure  shows  that  as  helix  voltage  is 
increased,  the  compression  decreases  but  the  AM-to-PM  conversion 
increases.  The  choice  of  a  helix  voltage  at  which  to  operate  the  tube 
must  therefore  represent  a  compromise  between  these  quantities. 

Phase  Modulation  Sensitivity 

The  equipment  of  Fig.  24  was  also  used  to  measure  the  phase  modula- 
tion sensitivity  of  various  electrodes  by  omitting  the  amplitude  modula- 


OSCILLO- 
SCOPE 


SWEPT    VIDEO 

SIGNAL    SOURCE 

0-10  MC 


FM 

TRANSMITTING 

TERMINAL 


o 

FM 
RECEIVING 
TERMINAL 

-■Z. 

^ 

X 


SOURCE 

OF  ONE  DB 

OF  AM 


TRAVELING- 
WAVE  TUBE 


UJ 

O 

UJ 
Q 


Q. 

I- 

O 
UJ 

> 

< 

-J 
UJ 


-2 

-3 
-4 
-5 


ADDING 
PHASE,,^ 

.--- 

^^ 

"^ 

OPPOSING 
.^.PHASE 

^^ 

^^ 

^ 

^ 

234  56789 

VIDEO   FREQUENCY   IN   MEGACYCLES    PER   SECOND 


10 


Fig.  26  —  Example  of  frequency  response  shaping  caused  bj'  AM-to-PM  con- 
version. This  figure  shows  the  calcuhited  frequency  response  viewed  between 
FM  terminals  for  the  system  shown  in  the  block  diagram.  Curves  are  given  for  the 
case  in  which  the  phase  modulation  generated  in  the  TWT  both  adds  to  and  sub- 
tracts from  that  of  the  transmitted  signal.  Inclusion  of  a  limiter  at  point  A  would 
result  in  a  flat  frequency  response. 


1322       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


-20 


-15 


0  5  10 

INPUT    IN     DBM 


Fig.  27  —  Output  power  as  a  function  of  input  power  at  various  beam  currents. 
Tliese  curves  were  all  taken  with  the  helix  voltage  adjusted  to  give  the  maximum 
gain  at  low  signal  levels.  At  low  beam  currents  (<20  ma)  there  is  insufficient  gain 
between  the  attenuator  and  the  output  so  that  at  these  currents  the  attenuator 
section  is  limiting  the  power  output.  This  accounts  for  some  of  the  difference  in 
shape  of  the  curves  near  maximum  output. 

tor  and  introducing  small  changes  in  electrode  voltages.  The  modulation 
sensitivity  of  the  helix  is  about  two  degrees  per  volt  and  that  of  the 
accelerator  about  0.1  degree  per  volt  with  the  TWT  operating  under 
nominal  conditions. 


Significance  of  AM-to-PM  Conversion 

Let  us  return  briefly  to  a  discussion  of  some  consequences  of  AM-to- 
PM  conversion.  As  an  example,  we  will  consider  the  case  of  a  low -index 
FM  signal.  Assume  the  frequency  deviation  is  ±5  mc  peak  to  peak. 
This  gives  a  phase  deviation  of  ±0.5  radian  for  a  10  mc  modulating 
signal.  These  values  are  typical  of  what  might  be  found  in  a  radio  relay 
system.  Let  us  also  assume  that  there  is  a  residual  amplitude  modulation 
of  one  db  (about  13  per  cent)  in  this  signal  and  suppose  further  that  the 
signal  is  amplified  by  a  TWT  having  a  value  of  AM-to-PM  conversion  of 
10  degrees  per  db.  The  phase  modulation  thus  created  in  the  TWT  can 
either  add  to  or  subtract  from  that  of  the  original  FM  signal,  thus  chang- 
ing its  modulation  index.  At  low  modulation  signal  frequencies  the  phase 
deviation  of  the  FM  signal  will  be  large  compared  to  that  of  the  PM 
interference  and  the  interference  will  be  of  little  consequence.  At  high 
modulation  signal  frequencies  the  phase  deviation  of  the  original  FM 
and  of  the  interfering  PM  signals  will  be  comparable  and  the  interference 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE   FOR   6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY 


1323 


can  considerably  change  the  net  phase  deviation  of  the  overall  signal. 
For  the  example  we  are  considering  the  frequency  responses  in  Fig.  26 
show  what  would  be  seen  at  the  output  FM  terminal.  Curves  are  given 
both  for  the  PM  interference  adding  to  and  subtracting  from  the  original 
FM  signal.  We  see  that  a  gain-frequency  slope  of  about  4  db  over  10 
mc  is  introduced  by  AM-to-PM  conversion.  To  prevent  such  an  effect, 
a  limiter  should  be  used  prior  to  the  TWT  in  applications  of  this  nature  so 
as  to  remove  the  offending  AM  from  the  input  signal. 

The  fact  that  compression  and  amplitude-to-phase  conversion  vary 
with  input  level  means  that  in  addition  to  the  first  order  distortion  just 
described,  higher  order  distortions  of  the  modulation  envelope  will 
occur.  If,  for  example,  the  input  signal  is  amplitude  modulated  at  fre- 
quency /i  ,  the  output  modulation  envelope  will  contain  amplitude  and 
phase  modulation  both  at  /i  and  at  harmonics  of  /i .  The  amount  of 
higher  order  distortion  can  be  estimated  by  expanding  the  compression 
and  amplitude-to-phase  conversion  curves  as  a  function  of  power  input 
in  a  Taylor  series  about  the  operating  point.  Such  an  expansion  shows 
that  the  greater  the  slope  of  these  curves  the  greater  will  be  the  higher 
order  distortions. 


40 
35 
30 
25 
20 
15 
10 

0 

.X 

A 

y^" 

A 

."'■' 

HELIX 
VOLTAGE 

J 

w 

Y 

/ 

\A 

V 

> 

/ 

V 

;ain 

/ 

7 

/ 

/ 

2450 


2400 


l5LU 

io 

o>, 


2350   li.^ 


2300 


2250 


IU_| 

I< 


2200 


10  20  30  40  50  60 

BEAM   CURRENT  IN    MILLIAMPERES 


70 


Fig.  28  —  Low-level  gain  as  a  function  of  beam  current.  The  helix  voltage  was 
adjusted  for  maximum  gain  at  each  current. 


1324       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Reproducibility 

The  curves  presented  in  this  section  are  all  for  the  same  tube,  one 
which  is  representative  of  a  group  of  50  which  were  built  at  the  conclusion 
of  the  Ml 789  development  program.  The  tubes  in  this  group  had  char- 
acteristics falling  within  the  following  ranges.  The  numbers  represent 
the  range  containing  90  per  cent  of  the  tubes  tested. 

Accelerator  Voltage  for  40  ma 2,500-2,700 

Helix  Voltage  for  maximum  low-level  gain 2,350-2,450 

Low-level  gain 33-37  db 

Gain  at  5  watts  output 31-35  db 

Maximum  power  output J  40.5-42  dbm 

\(1 1.2-15.8  watts) 


/ 
/ 

45 

/ 

y 

/ 
/ 

^          1 

,70  MA 

40 

/   ^ 

r^ 

n"'cx^6o     >v 

K 

/ 

^ 

N 

k 

/) 

\^ 

f    7  ^ 

r^^^° 

\ 

\ 

35 

/  / 

y^ 

/ 

^^s-l 

Nl           \ 

// / 

Y 

/ 
/ 

^^^0 

N 

\ 

k 

^    30 

LU 

m 
u 

UJ 

a   25 

z 

/ 

V/i 

r^ 

/ 
/ 

^>^ 

i      N 

L  N 

\ 

lj[/  / 

/ 
/ 

'--^ 

k 

\ 

\    ^ 

M 

^ 

/ 

/ 

^ 

k 

\  1 

K  \ 

\ 

z 

< 

O   20 

15 
10 

X 

1 

K 

\ 

\ 

\  ^ 

\^  \ 

L 

WA 

Y 

1 

1 
1 
1 

1 

i    \ 

A 

y 

i/^ 

1 

1 

>^o 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\          T 

m/ 

1 

1 

1 

L 

N 

i 

*^  y 

5 

juj/l 

A 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\  1 

\  \ 

^ 

/ 

1 

N 

<5  MA 

N 

1 

\ 

\ 

\l 

0 

/f 

\ 

\ 

\ 

2000    2100   2200   2300   2400    2500    2600   2700 

HELIX  VOLTAGE  IN  VOLTS 


2800   2900 


3000 


Fig.  29  —  Low-level  gain  as  a  function  of  helix  voltage  for  various  beam  cur- 
rents. The  dotted  line  represents  the  locus  of  the  maxima  of  the  curves. 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  O-OOO-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1325 


4.5 


5.0       5.5        6.0        6.5       7.0       7.5 

FREQUENCY  IN  KILOM  EGACYCLES  PER  SECOND 


8.0 


Fig.  30  —  Low-level  gain  and  helix  voltage  for  maximum  gain  as  functions  of 
frequenc}'  for  several  beam  currents.  The  TWT  was  matched  to  the  waveguide 
(with  tuners  where  necessary  outside  of  the  5,925  to  6,425-mc  range)  at  each  fre- 
(luency.  The  solid  curves  show  the  gain-frequency  characteristic  with  the  helix 
voltage  adjusted  for  maximum  gain  at  6,000  mc  for  each  beam  current  and  then 
held  constant  as  frequency  was  changed.  Experimental  points  correspond  to  this 
condition.  The  dotted  curves  show  how  the  characteristics  change  when  helix 
voltage  is  optimized  at  each  frequency.  The  optimum  helix  voltage  increases  by 
about  100  volts  in  going  from  6,000  down  to  4,500  mc  because  of  slight  dispersion  in 
the  phase  velocity  of  the  helix. 

4.3  Operation  Over  an  Extended  Range 

We  now  turn  to  a  consideration  of  tj^pical  Ml 789  characteristics  over 
an  extended  range  of  beam  current,  frequency,  and  magnetic  field.*  We 
shall  concentrate  on  two  items,  the  low-level  gain  and  the  maximum 
power  output.  From  variations  in  these  quantities  the  complete  compres- 
sion ctirves  can  be  roughly  deduced.  This  situation  is  illustrated  in  Fig.  27 
which  sho^vs  output  as  a  function  of  input  at  different  beam  currents. 
While  the  shapes  of  these  curves  are  slightly  different,  for  the  most  part 
they  can  be  derived  from  the  40-ma  curve  by  shifting  it  along  the  abcissa 

*  The  characteristics  of  the  tuV)e  used  for  the  low-level  gain  measurements 
in  this  Section  were  slightly  different  from  those  of  the  tube  used  for  the  maxi- 
mum output  measurements  and  both  were  slightly  different  from  those  of  the 
tube  used  for  the  measurements  of  Section  4.2.  All  tubes,  however,  had  charac- 
teristics falling  within  the  ranges  listed  above. 


1326       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


( 


by  the  amount  the  low-level  gain  changes,  and  along  the  ordinate  by  the 
amount  the  maximum  output  changes  as  beam  current  is  varied.  A 
similar  procedure  can  be  followed  for  variations  Avith  frequency  and 
magnetic  field.  In  all  figures  in  this  Section,  parameters  not  being  pur- 
posely varied  were  held  at  the  nominal  values  given  on  page  1315. 

Low-level  Gain 

Fig.  28  shows  the  variation  in  low-level  gain  with  beam  current  and 
Fig.  29  shows  its  variation  with  helix  voltage  for  several  different  beam 
currents.  Fig.  30  shows  the  variation  with  frequency  and  Fig.  31  the 
variation  with  magnetic  field. 


X 

Hz 

lUO  0.8 


ujq: 


0.4  - 


Ol 


2400  I- 


O 
> 


2380 


H  2360 

OJ 

I 


2340  1 


6 


JO 
01 

_l 

UJ 

m  36 

c 

r^ 

~ . 

o 

UJ 
Q 

Z 
■"  34 

Z 

< 

19 

^ 

32 

500  550  600  650 

MAGNETIC    FLUX    DENSITY   IN   GAUSS 


700 


750 


Fig.  .31  —  Low-level  gain,  helix  voltage  for  maximvim  gain  and  helix  intercep- 
tion at  low  signal  level  as  functions  of  magnetic  flux  density.  These  measurements 
were  made  using  different  strength  permanent  magnet  circuits.  The  gain  varies 
with  magnetic  flux  density  mainly  as  a  result  of  its  effect  on  l)eam  size  and  there- 
fore on  the  degree  of  coupling  l)etween  electron  stream  and  lielix.  The  helix  voltage 
varies  because  of  the  effect  of  beam  size  on  QC  and  therefore  on  the  ratio  of  the 
optimum  gain  voltage  to  the  helix  synchronous  voltage. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR   6,000-MC   RADIO    RELAY  1327 


70 


65 


60 


55 


50 


45 


IT) 


LU 

40 

OJ 

o 

UJ 

Q 

35 

z 

z 

30 

< 

15 

25 


20 


10 


o- 

■-0    EXPERIMENTAL 

,                         r- 

ALCULATED 

b/b  =0.6 

f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

} 

/. 

V 

^0.4 

/ 

''A 

/ 

/ 

/ 

0 

^ 

A 

/ 

/ 

/ 

^/ 

y 

t 

// 

f 

/' 

0        0.5      1.0       1.5       2.0       2.5      3.0      3.5      4.0      4.5      5.0      5.5      6.0 

r/3-(MA)'/^ 

Fig.  32  —  Measured  and  calculated  low-level  gain  as  a  function  of  the  one-third 
power  of  beam  current.  The  parameter  b/a  is  the  ratio  of  effective  beam  diameter 
to  mean  helix  diameter. 


40.0 


37.5 


35.0 


32.5 


Q    30.0 


Z   27.5 
< 


25.0 


22.5 


20.0 


^ 

"^ 

^ 

1  =  0.6 

^ 

^ 

[>»•''" 

? — 

^—1 

'" 

>-  — .. 

3 .J 

? 

r""- 

\ 

,^''' 

5'-' 

y" 

^, 

'■--, 

-. 

V^ 

"\ 

\ 

^ 

^v 

s. 

^^ 

X 

4  =  0.4^ 

\ 

^v 

'^^ 

N, 

CALCULATED 
EXPERIMENTAL 

N 

\ 

o — — O 

\ 

•v 

4.5 


5.0  5.5  6.0  6.5  7.0  7.5 

FREQUENCY    IN   KILOMEGACYCLES    PER    SECOND 


8.0 


Fig.  33  —  Measured  and  calculated  frequency  response  for  a  current  of  40  ma. 


1328       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

The  observed  gain  compares  well  with  that  calculated  from  low-level 
TWT  theory  provided  that  we  properly  consider  the  effect  of  the  helix 
attenuator  and  provided  that  we  assume  a  hi  a  of  one-half.  The  method 
we  have  used  in  calculating  the  Ml 789  gain  is  discussed  further  in 
Appendix  I.  Fig.  32  compares  the  measured  and  calculated  gain  as  a 
function  of  beam  current  and  Fig.  33  compares  them  as  a  function  of 
frequency.  Fig.  34  shows  measured  and  calculated  ratios  of  voltage  for 
maximum  gain  to  synchronous  voltage  as  a  function  of  beam  current. 
In  all  these  figures  calculations  are  shown  for  several  values  of  the  ratio 
of  effective  beam  diameter  to  mean  helix  diameter  (6/a).  We  see  that 
the  effective  value  of  6/a  appears  to  be  about  one-half.  On  the  basis  of 
measurements  made  by  probing  the  beam  of  a  scaled  up  version  of  a 


1.26 


1.24 


1.22 


1.20 


1.18 


1.16 


1.14 


V/Vs 


1.12 


1.10 


1.08 


1.06 


1.04 


1.02 


1.00 


y 

<• 

^/^ 

y 

b/a  =  o.2^ 

y 

y 

/ 

/ 

0.4^ 

^ 

-^ 

/ 

^ 

\ 

( 

** 

-•"^ 

/ 

^^ 

fe 

,""" 

-"^ 

'^ 

/ 

^ 

x^ 

<^ 

"^ 

0^8^ 

,<f 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

""XZ 

^^ 

/  ^ 

'^  ^ 

-^ 

^^ 

A// 

r 

:^ 

1  •/  J 

^ 

10         15  20        25         30         35         40         45         50 

BEAM    CURRENT   IN    MILLIAMPERES 


55 


60 


65 


70 


Fig.  34  —  Measured  and  calculated  ratio  of  voltage  for  maximum  gain  to  syn- 
chronous voltage  as  a  function  of  beam  current.  The  calculated  curves  are  shown 
for  several  values  of  the  ratio  of  effective  beam  radius  to  mean  helix  radius  (b/a). 
The  location  of  the  measured  curve  among  the  calculated  ones  is  taken  as  an 
indication  of  the  effective  value  of  b/a  in  the  M1789.  At  40  ma  it  is  about  0.5. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR   6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY  1329 


z 
tr 

LU 

5 

o 

Q. 


CL 


32.5 

30.0 

27.5 

25.0 

22.5 

20.0 

17.5 

15.0 

12.5 

10.0 

7.5 

5.0 

2.5 

0 
2800 

2700 


LU 

O   2600 
>  2500 


liJ  2400 

I 


3 

o 


r 

V 

FORE    FADE 
TER    FADE 

HELIX    VOLTAGE 

SET    FOR 

MAXIMUM    OUTPUT, 

/ 

/ 

• 
^ 



-    AF 

/ 

A 

\ 

( 
/ 

y, 

/  \ 

A 

/ 

/ 
/ 

/ 

A 

t 

^     > 

r 

• 

V 

y 

^X 

/  / 

• 

A 

/^^  HELIX    VOLTAGE 
^                SET    FOR 

A 

/ 

f 

.^' 

r 

MAXIMUM    GAIN 
AT    LOW    LEVEL 

A 

{' 

/' 

Y 

^ 

A 

/ 

J, 

v> 

^^ 

^'^ 

.^ 

#^^ 

2300 


2200 


^^ 

^ 

^ 

"^ 

,y 

X^^OLTAGE    FOR 
MAXIMUM     OUTPUT 

y' 

A 

) 

__, 

' 



^ 

> 

>     VOL 

TAGE    FOR    MAXIMUM 
LOW    LEVEL    GAIN 

^ 

10  15         20         25         30         35         40        45         50         55         60         65         70 

BEAM    CURRENT    IN    MILLIAMPERES 


Fig.  35  —  Maximum  power  output  and  heli.x  voltage  as  functions  of  beam  cur- 
rent. Curves  are  shown  for  before  and  after  fading,  and  for  tlie  helix  voltage  ad- 
justed for  the  ma.ximum  gain  at  low-level  and  for  maximum  output. 


1330      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


4.0 


4.5  5.0  5.5  6.0  6.5  7.0  7.5 

FREQUENCY    IN   KILOMEGACYCLES    PER   SECOND 


Fig.  36  —  Maximum  power  output  after  fading  as  a  function  of  frequency  for 
several  beam  currents;  in  (a)  with  the  helix  voltage  adjusted  for  maximum  gain 
at  low-level  and  in  (b)  with  the  helix  voltage  adjusted  for  maximum  power  output. 


TRAVELING  WAVE  TUBE  FOR  6,000-MC  RADIO  RELAY     1331 


b 

Z 

^- 
Q. 

UJ 

U 

a. 

LU 

1-  3 

z 

X 

_i 
^2 

t- 
Z 

UJ 

u 

\ 

k 

1 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

tr    ' 

UJ 
Q. 

^ 

P 

0 

500  550  600  650  700 

MAGNETIC   FLUX    DENSITY   IN   GAUSS 


750 


Fig.  37  —  Maximum  power  output  after  fading,  voltage  for  maximum  output, 
and  helix  interception  at  maximum  output  as  functions  of  magnetic  flux  density. 
These  measurements  were  made  using  magnetic  circuits  charged  to  different 
strengths.  Helix  interception  above  about  one  per  cent  is  undesirable  if  long  tube 
life  is  required. 


1332 


THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


focusing  system  similar  to  that  employed  in  the  M1789,  we  estimate  the 
actual  beam  diameter  (for  99  per  cent  of  the  current)  to  be  about  65 
mils  (Jb/a  =  0.7).  However,  the  current  density  distribution  is  peaked 
at  the  center  of  the  beam  because  of  the  effect  of  thermal  velocities  of 
the  electrons.  Thus  an  effective  h/a  of  0.5  is  not  unreasonable. 

Maximum  Power  Output  ' 

Fig.  35  shows  the  maximum  power  output  as  a  function  of  beam  cur- 
rent both  immediately  after  rf  drive  is  applied  and  after  the  tube  has 
had  time  to  stabilize.  We  see  that  at  high  rf  power  outputs  the  fading 


3.0 


2.5 


iJ   2.0 

> 

u 

z 

ly  1.5 
o 
u. 
H]  '-0 


0.5 

0 
4.0 

3.5 

3.0 


^2.5 
U 

z 

y  2.0 

u 

IL 

li    1.5 


1.0 


0.5 


THEORETICAL 
60  MA 

20  MA 

O     6 

a   4 

r 

0  MA 
0  MA 

L— 

3 

-^ 

'^ 

\; 

— -< 

—        ^ 

1 

t — 

20  MA 

I 

\ 

(a) 

^^ 

60  MA 

— 

— 

— 

S 

y***"*.^ 

THEORETI 
60  MA 

CAL 

— 

— 

40  MA 

20  MA 

^ 

) 

1 

}■ 

-r:' 

J . 

1^ 

F^— P 

"" 

I 

20MA 

i 

I 

k 

I 

1 

' 

' ' 

' 

(b) 

4.0 


4.5  5.0  5.5  6.0  6.5 

FREQUENCY    IN   KILOMEGACYCLES   PER  SECOND 


7.0 


7.5 


Fig.  38  —  Ratio  of  electronic  efficiency  to  gain  parameter  C  as  a  function  of 
frequency.  The  efficiencies  used  for  this  comparison  are  all  before  fading.  The  dot- 
ted line.s  are  estimated  from  the  Tien  theory  corrected  for  the  intrinsic  loss  of  the 
helix.  The  curves  in  (a)  are  for  the  case  of  the  heli.x  voltage  adjusted  for  the  maxi- 
mum low-level  gain  and  those  in  (b)  for  the  case  of  the  helix  voltage  adjusted  for 
maximum  power  output. 


TRAVELING    WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY  1333 

becomes  very  serious  and  eventually  limits  the  TWT  output  to  about  30 
watts.  If  it  were  necessary  to  reduce  this  fading,  the  envelope  shrinking 
technicjue  illustrated  in  Fig.  16  could  be  used.  The  maximum  power 
output  after  fading  is  shown  as  a  function  of  frequency  for  several  beam 
currents  in  Fig.  36  and  as  a  function  of  magnetic  flux  density  in  Fig.  37. 
The  theory  of  the  high  level  behavior  of  a  TWT**  predicts  that  the  ratio 
of  electronic  efficiency  (i.e.,  E  =  power  output/beam  power)  to  the  gain 
parameter  C  should  be  a  function  of  C,  QC  and  7b  (where  h  is  the  beam 
diameter).  However,  with  the  range  of  parameters  encountered  in  the 
M1789,  the  variation  in  E/C  should  be  small.  Fig.  38(a)  shows  E/C  as  a 
function  of  frequency  when  the  TWT  is  operating  at  the  voltage  for 
maximum  gain  at  low  signal  levels.  Fig.  38(b)  shows  the  maximum  value 
of  E/C  obtainable  at  elevated  helix  voltage.  In  both  figures  we  show  the 
efficiency  as  estimated  using  the  results  of  Tien^  corrected  for  the  effect 
of  intrinsic  loss  following  the  procedure  of  Cutler  and  Brangaccio.^ 
All  etticiencies  in  these  two  figures  are  the  electronic  efficiency  before 
fading.  It  would  be  quite  difficult  to  compare  the  efficiency  after  fading 
with  theory  because  the  intrinsic  attenuation  in  this  case  varies  along 
the  helix  in  an  unknown  manner  so  that  we  cannot  properly  take  it  into 
account.  From  the  figures  we  see  that  the  calculated  value  of  E/C  at 
6,000  mc  and  40  ma  is  not  far  from  the  experimental  value  but  the  ex- 
perimental points  show  more  variation  with  frequency  than  is  predicted 
by  theory.  The  low  efficiency  at  20  ma  results  from  the  fact  that  there 
is  insufficient  gain  between  the  helix  attenuator  and  the  output.  As  a 
result,  the  TWT  "overloads  in  the  attenuation." 

4.4  Noise  Perjormance 

A  new  and  important  noise  phenomenon  was  observed  in  the  course  of 
the  Ml 789  development.  It  was  found  that  the  noise  figure  is  strongly 
dependent  on  the  magnetic  flux  linking  the  cathode  and  on  the  rf  output 
level  of  the  TWT.  For  example,  with  the  TWT  operating  near  maximum 
output  and  with  a  cathode  completely  shielded  from  the  magnetic  field, 
noise  figures  of  about  50  db  were  observed.  By  allowing  20  gauss  at  the 
cathode,  the  noise  figure  was  reduced  to  30  db.  Fig.  39  shows  the  noise 
figure  as  a  function  of  magnetic  flux  density  at  the  cathode  for  several 
values  of  rf  power  output.  We  see  that  there  is  a  peak  of  noise  figure 
roughly  symmetrical  about  zero  flux  at  the  cathode,  and  that  the  magni- 
tude of  this  peak  is  considerably  increased  by  operating  the  TWT  at 
high  output  levels. 

Some  additional  observed  properties  of  the  noise  peak  are: 
(1)  The  magnitude  depends  on  the  synchronous  voltage  of  the  helix. 
For  a  1,600-volt  helix  it  is  about  10  db  higher  than  shown  in  Fig.  39  and 


1334      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

for  a  2,600-volt  helix  it  is  about  5  db  lower.  The  noise  figure  for  25  gauss 
at  the  cathode  remains  constant,  however. 

(2)  There  appears  to  be  a  threshold  level  of  about  15-ma  beam  current 
below  which  the  peak  does  not  occur.  Between  15  and  25  ma  the  peak 
increases.  Above  25  ma  it  is  roughly  constant  in  magnitude. 

(3)  The  peak  can  be  considerably  reduced  by  intercepting  some  of 
the  edge  electrons  before  they  reach  the  helix  region. 

For  this  discussion  it  has  been  necessary  to  extend  the  concept  of 
noise  figure  to  the  case  of  non-linear  operation  of  the  TWT.  Essentially 
this  noise  figure  is  defined  by  the  means  we  use  to  determine  it.  A  block 
diagram  of  the  equipment  is  shown  in  Fig.  40.  The  outputs  of  a  calibrated 
broad  band  noise  source  and  a  signal  oscillator  are  combined  and  used 
for  the  input  to  the  TWT  under  test.  The  noise  output  from  the  TWT  is 
passed  through  a  filter  tuned  about  100  mc  away  from  the  signal  so  as  to 
reject  the  carrier.  It  is  then  detected  by  a  receiver  tuned  to  the  filter 
frequency.  The  noise  figure  is  measured  by  turning  the  noise  source  off 
and  on,  noting  the  change  in  receiver  output  level  and  calculating  the 
noise  figure  in  the  conventional  manner.  This  procedure  reduces  to  an 
ordinary  noise  figure  measurement  in  the  absence  of  input  signal. 

There  are  other  ways  that  could  be  used  to  measure  noise  figure  of  a 
non-linear  amplifier.  A  method  more  closely  related  to  the  use  of  the 


50 


45 

<n 

_I 

UJ 

o 

^40 


UJ 

cc 


35 


111 
in 
o 

z 


30 


/ 

^ 

T 

/ 

/^ 

^7DBM 

\ 

/ 

/ 

X 

\ 

\ 

// 

/ 

LOw\ 
LEVEL 

^ 

\\ 

V 

^^<:> 

-20  -15  -10  -5  0  5  10  15 

MAGNETIC  FLUX  DENSITY  AT   THE  CATHODE  IN    GAUSS 


20 


Fig.  39  —  Noise  figure  as  a  function  of  magnetic  flux  density  at  the  cathode 
for  several  values  of  rf  power  output.  The  flux  density  was  varied  by  using  an  in- 
ductive heater  through  which  ac  current  was  passed.  The  present  ]\I1789  uses  19 
gauss  at  the  cathode,  all  of  which  is  obtained  from  the  focusing  magnet  —  the 
heater  now  being  non-inductive. 


TRAVELING    WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC    RADIO    RELAY 


1335 


TWT  in  an  FM  radio  relay  was  investigated  briefly.  In  this  measurement 
an  FM  receiver  tuned  to  the  carrier  frequency  was  used  to  detect  the 
noise  modulation  present  in  the  TWT  output.  The  noise  figure  was  deter- 
mined in  the  usual  manner  from  the  ratio  of  receiver  outputs  with  the 
noise  source  turned  off  and  on.  When  the  TWT  was  operated  in  the 
linear  region,  this  measurement  gave  the  same  result  that  our  first 
method  did.  With  the  TWT  operated  in  the  non-linear  region  it  gave 
a  value  within  a  few  db  of  that  obtained  from  the  first  method. 

The  cause  of  the  high  noise  output  observed  for  low  magnetic  flux 
densities  at  the  cathode  is  at  the  present  time  not  clearly  understood. 
Fried  at  MIT  and  Ashkin  and  Rigrod  at  Bell  Laboratories  have  all 
probed  the  beam  formed  by  guns  of  the  M1789  type  and  have  found 
certain  anomalous  efl"ects.  Normally  one  would  expect  to  find  a  standing 
wave  of  noise  current  along  the  electron  beam.  For  the  M1789  gun  they 
find  instead  that  after  about  two  minima  of  the  standing  wave  pattern, 
the  noise  current  on  the  beam  begins  to  grow  and  continues  to  do  so 
until  a  saturation  value  is  reached.  The  noise  current  at  this  saturation 


LOW    NOISE 
TRAVELING- 
WAVE   TUBE 


SIGNAL 

POWER 

MONITOR 


NOISE 
LAMP 


SIGNAL 
SOURCE 


RECEIVER 


y/C 


FILTER 


HYBRID 


H 


GK-r 


SIGNAL 
6000   MC 


X 


TRAVELING- 
WAVE  TUBE 
UNDER  TEST 


RECEIVER    LOCAL 

OSCILLATOR 

6170  MC 


FILTER 
6080 


BAND 
6100 

20  MC 


Fig.  40  —  Block  diagram  of  noise  measuring  equipment.  Tiie  noise  source  con- 
sists of  a  fluorescent  lamp  the  output  of  which  is  amplified  by  a  low-noise  TWT  so 
as  to  bring  the  noise  level  to  about  35  db  above  kTB  at  the  M1789  input.  The  out- 
put from  the  M1789  is  passed  through  a  20-mc  bandpass  filter  which  eliminates 
both  the  single  frequency  test  signal  and  the  noise  in  the  image  band  of  the  re- 
ceiver. The  noise  figure  is  measured  by  noting  the  difference  in  noise  level  at  the 
receiver  output  with  the  noise  source  off  and  on,  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  used 
in  a  conventional  noise  figure  measurement. 


1336       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

value  may  be  considerably  higher  than  the  original  average  noise  level. 
As  is  the  case  with  the  noise  figure  in  the  M1789,  the  growing  noise 
current  has  been  found  to  be  very  sensitive  to  magnetic  field  at  the 
cathode.  By  allowing  sufficient  field  to  link  the  cathode,  the  growing 
noise  current  can  be  eliminated  leaving  the  normal  noise  current  standing 
wave  pattern  on  the  beam.  This  phenomenon  is  not  peculiar  to  the 
M1789  gun.  It  has  been  observed  by  various  workers  at  MIT^  and  else- 
where on  other  guns  producing  beams  with  comparable  current  densities. 
A  satisfactory  explanation  for  it  has  not,  at  the  time  of  this  writing,  been 
arrived  at.  It  seems  safe  to  say,  however,  that  the  growing  noise  current 
on  the  beam  is  the  source  of  the  high  noise  figures  obtained  in  the  M1789 
when  the  cathode  is  completely  shielded  from  the  magnetic  field. 

4.5  Inter  modulation 

It  has  been  found  that  certain  intermodulation  effects  in  the  Ml 789 
can  be  predicted  from  a  knowledge  of  the  compression  and  AM-to-PM 
conversion.  Alternatively,  these  effects  can  be  used  to  determine  com- 
pression and  AM-to-PM  conversion.  The  procedure  to  be  described  has 
the  advantage  of  being  simple  to  implement  as  compared  with  the  phase 
bridge  arrangement  of  Fig.  24. 


UNIT  VECTOR--.    .^ — ■ 
ROTATING  AT      / 

ANGULAR        / 

VELOCITY        1^ 

2  7rAf  \ 


UNIT 
AMPLITUDE 


-Af  — >| 


FREQUENCY 

(a) 


(b) 


4^    4* 


4^ 


AM 
VECTORS 


PM 
VECTORS 


(C) 


Fig.  41 

(a)  Spectrum  of  input  signal  to  amplifier. 

(b)  Vector  diagram  of  two  input  signals  and  the  resultant  signal  (R)  in  a  frame 
of  reference  rotating  at  an  angular  velocity  2irAf .  Dotted  line  is  the  locus  of  the  re- 
sultant signal. 

(c)  The  rotating  vector  of  the  proceeding  diagram  can  be  broken  down  into  a  set 
of  two  vectors  representing  amplitude  modulation  and  a  set  of  two  vectors  rep- 
resenting frequency  or  phase  modulation. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR    6,000-MC   RADIO    RELAY  1337 

Intermodulation  effects  are  ordinarily  complicated  and  results  are 
jvery  hard  to  predict  from  single  frequency  measurements  on  an  amplifier, 
i'or  a  TWT,  however,  one  case  —  that  in  which  two  signals  of  very 
[different  amplitude  are  passed  through  the  tube  —  can  be  treated  simply, 
IConsider  an  input  to  a  TWT  consisting  of  two  signals  at  frequencies 
l/i  and  /i  +  A/  with  the  signal  at/i  being  very  much  larger  in  amplitude. 
The  composite  signal  applied  to  the  amplifier  will  then  be  a  signal  at 
frequency  /i  which  is  amplitude  and  phase  modulated  at  a  rate  A/  in  an 
amount  proportional  to  the  relative  magnitudes  of  the  two  signals. 
This  can  be  represented  vectorially  as  shown  in  Fig.  41(a)  and  b.  In  this 
figure  the  amplitude  of  the  signal  /i  +  A/  has  been  normalized  to  unity. 
"A"  thus  represents  the  ratio  of  the  larger  to  the  smaller  signal.  The 
locus  of  the  resultant  signal  is  shown  by  the  dotted  line.  The  single 
rotating  vector  can  be  considered  as  the  sum  of  vectors  at  /i  +  A/  and 
/i  —  A/  as  shown  in  Fig.  41(c).  One  set  of  vectors  produces  PM  and  the 
other  AM.  The  AM  and  PM  vectors  cancel  at  /i  —  A/  and  add  at  /i  + 

A/. 

Suppose  this  signal  is  put  through  an  amplifier  operating  in  com- 
pression. For  the  time  being  let  us  assume  this  amplifier  has  no  AM-to- 
PM  conversion.  The  compression  in  the  amplifier  will  operate  on  the 
AM  sidebands  of  the  signal  but  will  leave  the  PM  sidebands  unaffected. 
Let  us  define  the  quantity  c  as  a  measure  of  compression  in  the  amplifier 
by 

'  =  '-  AVW<  ^'^ 

where  Vo  is  the  output  voltage,  Vi  input  voltage,  and  AFo  is  the  change 
in  output  voltage  for  a  change  AVi  in  the  input  voltage.  This  quantity  is 
the  per  cent  compression  used  in  Section  4.2  divided  by  100.  If  the  signal 
in  Fig.  41  is  put  through  the  amplifier  while  it  is  in  compression,  and  the 
level  of  the  signal  at  /i  is  subsequently  brought  back  to  amplitude  A, 
we  would  then  expect  to  have  the  situation  shown  in  Fig.  42.  Each  AM 
sideband  component  has  been  multiplied  by  the  factor  (1-c).  The  locus 
of  the  composite  signal  is  now  elliptical.  Let  Si  and  S2  be  the  magnitude 
of  the  sidebands  at  /i  +  A/  and  /i  —  A/  respectively.  From  Fig.  42  it  is 
seen  that 

^1  =  K  +  Hd  -  c)  =1-  c/2  (2) 

S9  =  y2-  Hil  -  c)  =  c/2  (3) 

When  c  =  0,  the  amplifier  is  operating  in  the  linear  region  and  *Si  =  1, 


1338      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


^2  =  0.  This  is  the  condition  in  Fig.  41.  When  the  amphfier  is  operating  \ 
as  a  perfect  Umiter,  c  =  1  and  Si  =  S2  =  0.5.  Thus,  in  this  case,  the  side-  1 
band  *Si  is  down  6  db  from  its  value  when  the  amplifier  is  operating  in 
the  linear  region. 

When  there  is  conversion  of  AM-to-PM  in  the  amplifier,  the  situation 
becomes  somewhat  more  complex.  Suppose  an  AM  signal  is  fed  into  the 
amplifier  and  that  its  voltage  is  given  by 


V  =  Vi{l  -\-  a  sin  wj)  sin  Uct 


where  coc  and  oom  are  the  carrier  and  modulating  radian  frequencies  and 
V\  and  a  are  constants.  The  outputs  will  be  given  by 

V  =  KVi[l  +  «(1  —  c)  sin  oo,nt]  sin  {coct  +  kpa  sin  co^O  (5) 

Here  K  is  the  amplification,  c  is  the  compression  factor  and  kp  is  a  factor 
which  is  a  measure  of  the  AM-to-PM  conversion.  It  is  seen  that  kp  is 
the  output  phase  change  for  a  given  fractional  input  change  a.  Thus 


rCp   — 


A^ 


a 


(6) 


where  AO  is  the  phase  change  in  radians  caused  by  a  fractional  input 
change  a.  Later  on  it  will  be  desired  to  express  kp  in  terms  of  degrees 
phase  shift  per  db  change  in  input  amplitude.  To  express  a  in  db  we 


i(i-c)  ^ 


AM 
VECTORS 


4^ 

PM 
VECTORS 


(a) 


(4)  ' 


Fig.  42 

(a)  After  passing  through  an  amplifier  in  compression  tlie  AM  sidebands  are 
reduced  in  amplitude  but  the  PM  sidebands  are  unaffected.  The  lower  two  side- 
bands which  represent  a  signal  at  frequency  fi  —  Af  no  longer  cancel  and  so  there 
is  a  net  signal  at  that  frequency. 

(b)  The  locus  of  the  resultant  signal  now  assumes  an  elliptical  shape. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE   FOR   6,000-MC   RADIO   RELAY  1339 

lust  evaluate  20  logio  (  1  +  a).  The  quantity  loge  (1  +  a)  can  be  ex- 
)anded  in  a  series  to  give 

loge  (1  +  a)   =a  —  -a-\--a+  •  •  •  . 

A.S  long  as  a  <3C  1,  we  can  approximate  it  by  taking  only  the  first  term  of 
the  above  expression.  Converting  to  the  base  ten  and  converting  Ad 
Prom  radians  as  it  appears  in  (6)  to  degrees,  we  find  that 


k. 


0.152 


Ad  (in  degrees) 
A  input  level  (in  db) 


(7) 


Now  let  us  consider  the  case  in  which  the  signal  of  Fig.  41  is  put 
through  an  amplifier  having  AM-to-PM  conversion.  Fig.  43  shows  the 
vector  picture  of  the  resulting  signal  after  the  level  of  the  signal  at  /i 
has  been  brought  back  to  amplitude  A.  In  this  case  the  original  PM 
sidebands  and  the  compressed  AM  sidebands  are  the  same  as  in  Fig.  42, 
but  there  is  now  an  additional  set  of  PM  sidebands  as  a  result  of  the  AM- 
to-PM  conversion.  Since  the  peak  deviation  of  output  phase  due  to  this 
latter  set  of  sidebands  comes  when  the  instantaneous  amplitude  is  either 
a  maximum  or  a  minimum,  they  are  90  degrees  out  of  phase  with  the 
other  two  sets  of  sidebands.  From  Fig.  43  it  is  seen  that  we  can  write 


PM    VECTORS 

GENERATED    BY 

AMPLIFIER 


AM 
VECTORS 


PM 
VECTORS 


(a) 


o  j    »      o  )    » 


ys. 


Fig.  43 

(a)  After  passing  through  an  amplifier  having  both  compression  and  amplitude 
to  phase  conversion,  the  AM  vectors  are  reduced  in  magnitude  and  a  new  set  of 
PM  vectors  have  appeared. 

(b)  The  locus  of  the  resultant  signal  of  the  vectors  shown  above  is  elliptical  but 
the  axis  is  tilted  with  respect  to  vector  A. 


1340       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

1.2 


a 
z 
< 

in 

LU 
Q 

3 


1.1 

1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 


0 
-15 


32  =  2400  VOLTS 


::--Y 


-ZS'-'^^ 


.^ 


-p- 


/ 


-^ 


/S2  =  2600  VOLTS 


•10 


0  5  10 

POWER   INPUT    IN    DBM 


15 


20 


25 


Fig.  44  —  Relative  side  band  amplitudes  Si  and  S2  for  the  M1789  as  a  function 
of  power  input  for  two  values  of  helix  voltage. 

for  the  sideband  amplitudes  &\  and  >S^2  at/i  +  A/and/i  —  A/ respectively 


^"  =  [M  +  M(i  -  c)f  + 


I-/,.  -12 


=  (1  -  c/2f  +  (^ 


S2'  =  [3^  -  Vzil  -  c)f  + 


"A^ 


i 


=  {c/2r  + 


Solving  for  c  and  kp  we  obtain 

c  =  1  -  {Si   -  S2) 


K  =  2[s.'  -  (i^ 


.s: 


2\  2- 


1/2 


(8)    ; 

(9) 

(10) 
(11) 


Thus  we  see  that  from  a  measurement  of  the  amplitudes  Si  and  S2  the 
values  of  c  and  kp  can  be  determined. 

To  check  the  validity  of  this  approach  to  intermodulation,  we  deter- 
mined the  values  of  compression  and  AM-to-PM  conversion  for  an 
M1789  from  an  intermodulation  measurement  and  compared  them  with 
values  obtained  using  the  phase  bridge  set-up  described  in  Section  4.2. 
In  the  intermodulation  measurement  the  two  signals  were  100  mc  apart 


J 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE   FOR   6,000-MC    RADIO   RELAY 


1341 


150 


125 


I/) 

LU    100 
CE 

a. 


o 
o 


75 


50 


25 


r 

7 

^^ 

kJ 

D 

,^ 

^y/^ 

^600  VOLTS 
/ 

2400  VOLTS^ 

^ 

/ 

J 

^ 

y 

/ 

^ — 

A>-^ 

^ 

J2 

r-^ 

-tf^ 

x^ 

-10 


-5 


5  10 

POWER   INPUT    IN    DBM 


15 


20 


25 


Fig.  45  —  Compression  as  a  function  of  input  level  for  two  values  of  helix  volt- 
age. Triangles  represent  data  obtained  with  the  test  set  of  Fig.  24.  Circles  and 
squares  represent  data  obtained  by  the  two  signal  intermodulation  measurement. 

in  frequency  and  30  db  different  in  level.  From  measurements  of  signal 
strength  at  the  various  frequencies  involved,  the  magnitudes  of  S>\  and 
*S2  were  determined  with  the  results  shown  in  Fig.  44.  From  these  re- 
sults the  values  of  c  and  h^  were  calculated  and  then  converted  to  % 
compression  and  degrees  per  db  in  order  to  compare  with  the  results  of 


_l 

10.00 

UJ 

m 

o 

8.75 

111 

Q 

rr 

7.50 

LU 

Q. 

01 

6.25 

LU 

LU 

ct 

(J 

5.00 

LU 

O 

z 

3.75 

z 

n 

(0 

2.50 

cr 

LU 

> 

7 

1.25 

O 

O 

? 

0 

Q- 

O 

1- 

-1.25 

5 

< 

-2.60 

D 

2600  VOLTS/ 

r 

\ 

/ 

\ 

/ 

1 

J^ 

/- 

n 

k 

t 

\ 

A 

^ 

\ 

A 

V 

f 

2400  VOLTs\ 

D -- 

^ 

!> 

' 

■J 

i 

-15 


-10 


-5 


0  5  10 

POWER   INPUT   IN    DBM 


15 


20 


25 


Fig.  46  —  Conversioia  of  amplitude  modulation  to  phase  modulation  as  a  func- 
tion of  input  level  for  two  values  of  heli.x  voltage.  Triangles  represent  data  ob- 
tained with  the  test  set  of  Fig.  24.  Circles  and  squares  represent  data  obtained  by 
the  two  signal  intermodulation  measurement. 


1342       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


20 


cr  18 

O 

^    16 

u. 

o 

(0    14 
Q 

Z 

^   12 

O 

f    10 


UJ 


o 

z 

I- 
< 

a 
o 


TUBE 

TUBES 

FAILURES 

TEST 

— 

^ 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

Fig.  47  —  Life  test  results.  The  open  bars  indicate  tubes  that  have  failed;  the 
solid  bars  tubes  that  were  operating  as  of  May  1,  1956.  These  tubes  were  operated 
with  cathode  temperatures  between  720°  and  760°C. 

Figs.  23(c)  and  23(e).  The  latter  curves  are  repeated  as  Figs,  45  and 
46  with  the  experimental  points  calculated  from  Si  and  S2  shown.  It  is 
seen  that  the  results  of  the  two  types  of  measurements  compare  remark- 
ably well  considering  that  the  calculations  of  c  and  kp  both  require  the 
subtraction  of  nearly  equal  quantities.  Thus  we  may  conclude  that  our 
method  of  considering  the  intermodulation  is  substantially  correct  and 
that  we  can  obtain  compression  and  AM-to-PM  conversion  from  an 
intermodulation  measurement . 

V.    LIFE   TESTS 

We  feel  that  sufficient  data  have  been  accumulated  to  indicate  that 
tube  life  in  excess  of  10,000  hours  can  be  expected.  Fig.  47  summarizes 
our  life  test  experience.  All  tube  failures  were  caused  by  cathode  failure 
and  these  were  evidently  the  result  of  exhaustion  of  coating.  End  of  life 
for  these  tubes  comes  comparatively  suddenly  i.e.,  in  a  few  hundred 
hours  after  the  cathode  current  begins  to  drop.  At  this  time  the  emission 
becomes  non-uniform  over  the  cathode  surface  with  consequent  beam 
defocusing  and  helix  interception.  This  in  turn  causes  gas  to  be  released 
into  the  tube  which  then  accelerates  the  cathode  failure  through  cathode 
poisoning.  The  rf  performance  remained  good  over  the  tube  life  —  the 
gain  and  output  power  actually  increasing  slightly  near  the  end  of  life 
as  the  beam  started  to  defocus. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE   FOR   6,000-MC   RADIO    RELAY  1343 

VI.    ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The  M1789  TWT  is  the  outcome  of  an  intensive  efTort  which  has 
included  many  individuals  in  addition  to  the  authors.  R.  Angle,  J.  S. 
Gellatly,  E.  G.  Olson,  and  R.  G.  Voss  all  have  contributed  to  the  me- 
chanical design  of  the  tube  and  to  its  reduction  to  practice.  R.  W. 
DeVido  has  materially  assisted  with  the  electrical  testing.  M.  G.  Bodmer 
and  J.  F.  Riley  have  been  responsible  for  setting  up  the  life  test  program 
and  J.  C.  Irwin  and  J.  A.  Saloom  contributed  importantly  to  the  design 
work  on  the  electron  gun.  P.  P.  Cioffi  and  M.  S.  Glass  have  been  largely 
responsible  for  the  design  of  the  magnetic  circuits  and  P.  I.  Sandsmark 
for  the  helix-to-waveguide  transducers.  D.  0.  Melroy  studied  the 
effects  of  positive  ions  and  performed  the  experiments  on  ion  bombard- 
ment referred  to  in  Section  III.  D.  R.  Jordan  contributed  to  the  studies 
on  noise.  In  addition  to  the  above,  the  authors  would  like  to  thank 
E.  D.  Reed  for  his  very  helpful  criticism  of  this  manuscript. 

Appendix  I  —  Gain  Calculations 

The  gain  calculations  for  the  M1789  follow  the  procedure  outlined 
by  Pierce"^  with  some  minor  modifications.  The  steps  involved  in  the 
gain  calculations  for  the  loss  free  region  of  the  helix  are  as  follows: 

-  (1)  The  experimental  synchronous  voltage  is  used  to  determine 
ya  and  the  dielectric  loading  factor  as  defined  by  Tien.^ 

(2)  From  7a  the  value  of  helix  impedance  K  is  obtained  from  Ap- 
pendix VI  of  Pierce.^ 

(3)  The  value  of  K  is  corrected  using  Tien's^  results  and  C  is  then 
calculated  in  the  usual  manner. 

(4)  The  number  of  wavelengths  Ni  per  inch  of  helix  is  obtained  using 
the  experimentally  determined  (from  synchronous  voltage)  wave- 
length. 

(5)  The  value  of  cog/w  is  determined.  In  this  calculation  the  curves 
for  cop/cog  from  Watkins^  are  employed. 

(6)  QC  is  determined  from 

QC  = 

(7)  From  QC,  B  is  determined  from  Fig.  8.10  of  Pierce'^  and  the  gain 
BCNi  in  the  loss  free  region  is  calculated. 

In  calculating  the  effect  of  the  attenuator  section,  we  have  had  to 
make  some  rather  gross  assumptions.  Fortunately,  it  turns  out  that  the 


134-4       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

gain  in  the  attenuator  is  a  small  fraction  of  the  total  gain  in  the  tube  so 
that  the  over-all  gain  is  not  particularly  sensitive  to  the  means  we  use 
for  treating  the  attenuator.  Essentially  what  we  have  done  is  to  con- 
sider the  high  loss  part  of  the  attenuator  as  a  severed  helix  region  and 
the  low  loss  part  of  the  attenuator  as  a  lossy  helix  region. 

Fig.  48  shows  the  value  of  the  growing  wave  parameter  as  a  function 
of  the  loss  parameter  d  for  various  values  of  QC  as  calculated  from  theory. 
Because  of  discontinuity  losses  to  the  growing  wave  as  it  propagates  in 
a  region  of  gradually  increasing  loss,  the  actual  gain  will  be  less  than 
that  calculated  from  Fig.  48.  Some  rather  crude  probe  measurements 
have  indicated  that  the  effective  x  vs.  d  curve  can  be  approximated  by 
a  straight  line  through  the  d  =  0  and  d  =  1  points  —  the  dotted  line  in 
Fig.  48. 

Since  the  helix  is  effectively  severed  by  the  high  loss  portion  of  the 
attenuator  we  must  subtract  some  discontinuity  loss  from  the  gain  in 
the  attenuator  region.  The  effective  drift  length  in  the  severed  region 
is  unknown  so  this  discontinuity  loss  cannot  be  accurately  calculated 
from  the  low-level  theory.  The  discussion  in  chapter  nine  of  Pierce^ 
indicates  that  an  average  value  of  about  6  db  is  reasonable. 

An  alternate  method  of  treating  the  attenuator  was  also  tried.  In  this 
calculation,  the  x  vs.  d  curves  in  Fig.  48  were  assumed  to  be  correct  to 


0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 


0.3 


0.2 
0.1 


\ 

N, 

\s 

v 

v^ 

^-^^ 

V 

^^•. 

"""--- 

QC  =  0 

^ 

S^^ 

V^ 

^sN 

^>        ' 

^ 

% 

....,,0^5 

^^N 

— ^ 

0.5 



— 

V 

^N 

0.4 


0.8 


1.2 


1.6 


2.0 

d 


2.4 


2.8 


3.2 


3.6 


4.0 


Fig.  48  —  Curves  of  growing  wave  parameter  x  as  a  function  of  loss  parameter 
d  showing  approximation  (dotted  lines)  used  in  gain  calculations  for  the  M1789. 


TRAVELING   WAVE   TUBE    FOR   6,000-MC   RADIO   RELAY  1345 

(/  =  1.  The  region  for  which  d  >  1  was  considered  as  a  severed  helix 

region  with  6-db  discontinuity  loss.  Calculations  using  this  procedure 

gave  total  gains  for  the  TWT  within  a  couple  of  db  of  the  first  method. 

The  remaining  steps  in  calculating  the  gain  of  the  TWT  are  therefore: 

(8)  The  quantity  a  is  determined  from  the  slope  of  the  dotted  lines 
in  Fig.  48. 

(9)  The  length  of  helix,  4  in  the  attenuator  for  which  x  >   0  is 
determined  by  using  Fig.  48. 

(10)  The  total  attenuation  L,  in  the  section  of  the  attenuator  effective 
in  producing  gain  is  calculated. 

(11)  The  initial  loss  parameter  A  is  obtained  from  Fig.  94  of  Pierce  J 

(12)  The  gain  is  calculated  from 

Gain  =  A  -6dh  +aL  +  BCNi  (3.5  +  /«) 

where  the  six  db  is  the  discontinuity  loss  in  the  attenuator  section  and  the 
3.5  inches  is  the  length  of  loss  free  helix. 

Glossary  of  Symbols 

a  loss  factor  from  Pierce^ 

A  discontinuity  loss  parameter  at  input  of  helix  from  Pierce^ 

B  magnetic  flux  density  or  the  space  charge  parameter  from  Pierce 

Bb  Brillouin  flux  density  for  a  beam  entirely  filling  the  helix 

C  gain  parameter  from  Pierce^ 

a  helix  radius 

b  beam  radius 

d  loss  parameter  from  Pierce'^ 

/  frequency 

Ik  cathode  current 

la  accelerator  current 

Ih  helix  current 

Ic  collector  current 

k  2ir/Xo  where  Xo  is  the  free  space  wavelength 

fe  length  of  helix  attenuator  in  which  gain  is  possible 

L  loss  in  the  part  of  the  attenuator  section  which  is  capable  of  pro- 
ducing gain. 

A''  number  of  wavelengths  in  TWT 

Ni  number  of  wavelengths  on  the  helix  per  inch 

QC  space  charge  parameter  from  Pierce^ 

Ta  anode  radius  of  curvature  of  gun 

Tc  cathode  radius  of  curvature  of  gun 

Tmin  minimum  beam  radius  from  Pierce'" 


1346       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Tc  cathode  radius 

r95  radius  at  the  beam  minimum  through  which  95  per  cent  of  t 

current  flows 

(7  standard  deviation  of  electron  trajectory 

Tk  cathode  temperature 

Va  accelerator  voltage 

Vn  helix  voltage 

Vc  collector  voltage 

X  growng  wave  parameter  from  Pierce 

CO  radian  frequency 

oic  carrier  radian  frequency 

ojm  modulating  signal  radian  frequency 

ojp  radian  plasma  frequency 

cog  corrected  radian  plasma  frequency 

c  compression  factor 

kp  AM-to-PM  conversion  factor 

7  radial  propagation  constant 

References 

1.  Cutler,  C.  C,  Spurious  Modulation  of  Electron  Beams,   Proc.  I.R.E.,  44, , 

pp.  61-64,  Jan.,  1956. 

2.  Danielson,  W.  E.,  Rosenfeld,  J.  L.,  and  Saloom,  J.  A.,  A  Detailed  Analysis  of  " 

Beam  Formation  with  Electron  Guns  of  the  Pierce  Type,  B. S.T.J.  35,  pp. 
375-420,  March,  1956. 

3.  Augustine,  C.  F.,  and  Slocum,  A.,  6KMC  Phase  Measurement  System  For 

Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  I.R.E.  Trans.  PGI-4,  Oct.,  1955. 

4.  Tien,  P.  K.,  A  Large  Signal  Theory  of  Traveling-Wave  Amplifiers,  B.S.T.J., 

35,  pp.  349-374,  March,  1956. 

5.  Brangaccio,  D.  J.,  and  Cutler,  C.  C,  Factors  Affecting  Traveling-Wave  Tube 

Power  Capacity,  I.R.E.  Trans.  PGED-3,  June,  1953. 

6.  Smullin,  L.  D.,  and  Fried,  C,  Microwave  Noise  Measurements  on  Electron 

Beams,  I.R.E.  Trans.,  PGED-4,  Dec,  1954. 

7.  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Traveling-Wave  Tubes,  D.  Van  Nostrand,  Inc.,  1950. 

8.  Tien,  F*.  K.,  Traveling-Wave  Tube  Helix  Impedance,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  41,  pp. 

1617-1623,  Nov.,  1953. 

9.  Watkins,  D.  A.,  Traveling-Wave  Tube  Noise  Figure,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  pp. 

65-70,  Jan.,  1952. 
10.  Pierce,  J.  R.,  Theory  and  Design  of  Electron  Beams,  D.  Van  Nostrand,  Inc., 
1949. 


Helix  Waveguide 

By  S.  P.  MORGAN  and  J.  A.  YOUNG 

(Manuscript  received  July  23,  1956) 

Helix  waveguide,  composed  of  closely  wound  turns  of  insulated  copper 
wire  covered  with  a  lossy  jacket,  shows  great  promise  for  use  as  a  communi- 
cation medium.  The  properties  of  this  type  of  waveguide  have  been  investi- 
gated using  the  sheath  helix  model.  Modes  whose  wall  currents  follow  the 
highly  conducting  helix  have  attenuation  constants  which  are  essentially 
the  same  as  for  copper  pipe.  The  other  modes  have  very  large  attenuation 
constants  which  depend  upon  the  helix  pitch  angle  and  the  electrical  proper- 
ties of  the  jacket.  Approximate  formidas  are  given  for  the  propagation  con- 
stants of  the  lossy  modes.  The  circular  electric  mode  important  for  long- 
distance communication  has  low  loss  for  zero-pitch  helices.  The  propagation 
constants  of  sotne  of  the  lossy  modes  in  helix  waveguide  of  zero  pitch  have 
been  calculated  numerically,  as  functions  of  the  jacket  parameters  and  the 
guide  size,  in  regions  where  the  approximate  formulas  are  no  longer  valid. 
Under  certain  conditions  the  attenuation  constant  of  a  particular  mode  may 
pass  through  a  maximum  as  the  jacket  conductivity  is  varied. 

Glossary  of  symbols 

a  Inner  radius  of  waveguide 

h  =  13  —  ia     Complex  phase  constant 

n  Angular  mode  index 

p  Denotes  p„„,  or  pnm'  according  to  context 

Pnm  in^^  zero  of  Jn{x) 

Pnm'  w*^  zero  of  Jn{x) 

r,  d,  z               Right-handed  cylindrical  coordinates 

a  Attenuation  constant 

/?  Phase  constant 

/?o  =  27r/Xo  =  wifxoeoY'^    Free-space  phase  constant 

€o  Permittivity  of  interior  medium 

€  Permittivity  of  exterior  medium 

e  e/eo 

1347 


e" 


13-48       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

..  r    2  /  /  •  //\  7  2il/2 

§2  L<^  Mo€o(.e    —  te   )  —  ll  \ 

Xo  Free-space  wavelength 

Xc  =  2-Kaf'p     Cutoff  wavelength 

juo  Permeability  of  interior  and  exterior  media 

V  =  Xo/Xc  =  p\o/2ira  Cutoff  ratio 

[e    -  I  +  V    -  te  ) 

^  +  IT]  


e'  -  ie" 


n  Electric  Hertz  vector 

n*  Magnetic  Hertz  vector 

0"  Conductivity  of  exterior  medium 

rj/  Pitch  angle  of  helix 

CO  Angular  frequency 

e"  Harmonic  time  dependence  assumed  throughout 

J  nix)  Bessel  function  of  the  first  kind 

Jn(x)  dJn{x)/dx 

Hn'^ix)  Hankel  function  of  the  second  kind 

Hn^'^'ix)  dHS-\x)/dx 

MKS  rationalized  units  are  employed  throughout.  Superscripts  i  and  e 
are  used  to  indicate  the  interior  and  exterior  regions. 

I.   INTRODUCTION  AND   SUMMARY 

Propagation  of  the  lowest  circular  electric  mode  (TEoi)  in  cylindrical 
pipe  waveguide  holds  great  promise  for  low-loss  long  distance  communi- 
cation.^' ^  For  example,  the  TEoi  mode  has  a  theoretical  heat  loss  of  2 
db/mile  in  waveguide  of  diameter  6  inches  at  a  frequency  of  5.5  kmc/s, 
and  the  loss  decreases  with  increasing  frequency.  Increased  transmission 
bandwidth,  reduced  delay  distortion,  and  reduced  waveguide  size  for  a 
given  attenuation  are  factors  favoring  use  of  the  highest  practical  fre- 
quency of  operation.  An  increased  number  of  freely  propagating  modes 
and  smaller  mechanical  tolerances  are  the  associated  penalties.  Any 
deviation  of  the  waveguide  from  a  straight  circular  cylinder  gives  rise  to 
signal  distortions  because  of  mode  conversion-reconversion  effects. 

One  solution  to  mode  conversion-reconversion  problems  is  to  obtain  a 
waveguide  having  the  desired  low  attenuation  properties  of  the  TEoi 
mode  in  metallic  cylindrical  waveguide  and  very  large  attenuation  for 
all  other  modes,  the  unwanted  modes.^'  ^  The  low  loss  of  the  circular 
electric  modes  in  ordinary  round  guide  is  the  result  of  having  only  cir- 

1  S.  E.  Miller,  B.S.T.J.,  33,  pp.  1209-1265,  1954. 

2  S.  E.  Miller  and  A.  C.  Beck,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  41,  pp.  348-358,  1953. 

3  S.  E.  Miller,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  40,  pp.  1104-1113,  1952. 


HELIX    WAVEGUIDE  1349 

cumferential  current  flow  at  the  boundary  wall.  All  other  modes  in  round 
guide  have  a  longitudinal  current  present  at  the  wall.  Thus  the  desired 
attenuation  properties  can  be  obtained  by  providing  a  highly  conducting 
circumferential  path  and  a  resistive  longitudinal  path  for  the  wall  cur- 
rents. This  is  done  in  the  spaced-disk  line  by  sandwiching  lossy  layers 
between  coaxially  arranged  annular  copper  disks. ^  Another  possibility 
which  has  been  suggested  is  a  helix  having  a  small  pitch. 

Helix  waveguide,  formed  by  winding  insulated  wire  on  a  removable 
mandrel  and  coating  the  helix  with  lossy  material,  has  been  made  at  the 
Holmdel  Radio  Research  Laboratory.  Wires  of  various  cross  sections 
and  sizes  have  been  used  to  wind  helices  varying  from  3^  to  5  inches  in 
diameter,  which  have  been  tested  at  frequencies  from  9  to  60  kmc/s. 
Pitch  angles  of  from  nearly  0°  (wire  in  a  plane  perpendicular  to  the  axis 
of  propagation)  to  90°  (wire  parallel  to  the  axis  of  propagation)  have 
been  used.  The  helices  having  the  highest  attenuation  for  the  unwanted 
modes  while  maintaining  low  loss  for  the  TEoi  mode  are  those  wound 
with  the  smallest  pitch  from  insulated  wire  of  diameter  10  to  3  mils 
(American  Wire  Gauge  Nos.  30  to  40).  The  high  attenuation  properties 
for  unwanted  modes  also  depend  markedly  on  the  electrical  properties 
of  the  jacket  surrounding  the  helix. 

In  this  paper  the  normal  modes  of  helix  waveguide  are  determined 
using  the  sheath  helix  approximation,  a  mathematical  model  in  which 
the  helical  winding  is  replaced  by  an  anisotropic  conducting  sheath.  A 
brief  formulation  of  the  boundary  value  problem  leads  to  an  equation 
which  determines  the  propagation  constants  of  modes  in  the  helix  guide. 
Since  the  equation  is  not  easy  to  solve  numerically,  approximations  are 
presented  which  show  the  effects  of  the  pitch  angle,  the  diameter,  the 
conductivity  and  dielectric  constant  of  the  jacket,  and  the  wavelength, 
when  the  conductivity  of  the  jacket  is  sufficiently  high. 

By  proper  choice  of  the  pitch  angle  and,  in  some  instances,  of  the 
polarization,  a  helix  waveguide  can  be  made  to  propagate  any  mode  of 
ordinary  round  guide,  with  an  attenuation  constant  which  should  be 
essentially  the  same  as  in  solid  copper  pipe.  The  pitch  is  chosen  so  that 
the  wall  currents  associated  with  the  desired  mode  follow  the  direction 
of  the  conducting  wires.  The  losses  to  the  other  modes  are  in  general 
much  higher,  and  are  determined  by  both  the  pitch  angle  and  the  jacket 
material. 

Special  attention  is  given  in  the  present  work  to  the  limiting  case  of  a 
helix  of  zero  pitch,  since  the  attenuation  constant  of  the  TEoi  mode  will 
be  smallest  when  the  pitch  angle  is  as  small  as  possible.  To  explore  the 

^  Reference  3,  p.  1111. 


1350       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

region  where  the  approximate  formulas  for  the  propagation  constants 
of  the  lossy  modes  break  down,  some  numerical  results  have  been  ob 
tained  for  helices  of  zero  pitch  using  an  IBM  650  magnetic  drum  calcu 
lator.  Tables  and  curves  are  given  showing  the  propagation  constants  of 
various  modes  in  such  a  waveguide,  as  functions  of  the  electrical  proper- 
ties of  the  jacket  and  for  three  different  ratios  of  radius/ wavelength.  In 
many  cases  it  is  found  that  the  attenuation  constant  of  a  given  mode 
passes  through  a  maximum  as  the  jacket  conductivity  is  varied,  the 
other  parameters  remaining  fixed.  The  numerical  calculations  indicate 
that  it  is  possible  to  get  unwanted  mode  attenuations  several  hundred 
to  several  hundred  thousand  times  greater  than  the  TEoi  attenuation 
for  the  size  Avaveguide  that  looks  most  promising  for  low-loss  communi- 
cation. 


US 


J," 


Fig.  1  —  Schematic  diagrams  of  the  helical  sheath  and  the  helical  sheath  de- 
veloped, showing  the  unit  vectors  and  the  periodicity. 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE  1351 

II.   SHEATH  HELIX   BOUNDARY   VALUE   PROBLEM 

Ordinary  cylindrical  waveguide  consists  of  a  circular  cylinder  of  radius 
a,  infinite  length,  and  zero  (or  very  small)  conductivity,  imbedded  in  an 
infinite*  homogeneous  conducting  medium.  The  sheath  helix  waveguide 
has  the  same  configuration  plus  the  additional  property  that  at  radius  a 
dividing  the  tAvo  media,  there  is  an  anisotropic  conducting  sheath  which 
conducts  perfectly  in  the  helical  direction  and  does  not  conduct  in  the 
perpendicular  direction.  The  attenuation  and  phase  constants  are  deter- 
mined by  solving  Maxwell's  equations  in  cylindrical  coordinates  and 
matching  the  electric  and  magnetic  fields  at  the  wall  of  the  guide. 

The  helix  of  radius  a  and  pitch  angle  \J/  =  tan~^  s/2ira  is  shown  in  the 
upper  part  of  Fig.  1.  The  developed  helix  as  viewed  from  the  inside  when 
cut  by  a  plane  of  constant  6  and  unrolled  is  shown  in  the  lower  part  of 
the  illustration.  A  new  set  of  unit  vectors  e^  and  Cj.  parallel  and  perpen- 
dicular respectively  to  the  helix  direction  is  introduced.  These  are  re- 
lated to  er ,  ee ,  and  Cz  by 

er  X  e\\  —  ex 

e\\  =  ez  sin  t^  +  ee  cos  rp 

fij.  =  ez  cos  \p  —  e$  sin  xj/ 

The  boundary  conditions  at  r  =  a  are 

K  =  E{  =  0 

Ej  =  E/ 

where  the  superscript  i  refers  to  the  interior  region,  0  ^  r  ^  a,  and  the 
superscript  e  refers  to  the  exterior  region,  a  '^  r  -^  co .  An  equivalent  set 
of  boundary  conditions  in  terms  of  the  original  unit  vectors  is 

E;  tan  ^p  +  Ee'  =  0 

E,"  tan  rp  +  Ee'  =  Q 

(1) 

e:  =  e: 

H;  tan  ,A  -f  He'  =  Hf  tan  ^p  +  /// 
We  are  looking  for  solutions  which  are  similar  to  the  modes  of  or- 


*  The  assumption  of  an  infinite  external  medium  is  made  to  simplify  the  mathe- 
matics. The  results  will  be  the  same  as  for  a  finite  conducting  jacket  which  is  thick 
enough  so  that  the  fields  at  its  outer  surface  are  negligible. 


1352      THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

dinary  waveguide,  i.e.,  "fast"  modes  as  contrasted  with  the  well-known 
"slow"  modes  used  in  traveling- wave  tubes. ^'  ^  To  solve  the  problem  we 
follow  the  procedure  set  up  by  Stratton^  for  the  ordinary  cylindrical 
waveguide  boundary  problem.  The  fields  E  and  H  are  derived  from  an 
electric  Hertz  vector  IT   and  a  magnetic  Hertz  vector  11*  by 


^  =  vxvxn-  ^■w/xV  X  n* 
H=  {a  +  iwe)'^  X  ii  +  V  X  V  xn* 


(2) 


where 


(3) 


(4) 


n  =  ezU, 

n*  =  Ln* 

and,  assuming  a  time  dependence  exp  (iwt), 

00 

ni  V~^  i  7"    /  V     N    —ihz—inB 

z    =    2^   anJn{tir)e 

n=— 00 

00 

ne  V"*  ejr    (2)/ 5,     \    —ihz—inB 

n=— 00 

00 

n*i  V~^      7     i  T    /  <,     \    —ihz—inB 

z    =    2^    OnJn{hr)e 

n=— 00 

Jl= — 00 

In  these  expressions 

5-2  2  7,2 

f  1    =  CO  )Ltoeo  —  h 

5-2  2  /    /  ■   ,/\  7  2 

e    —  ie"  =  e/eo  —  ia/weo 

where  the  interior  region  is  assumed  to  have  permittivity  eo  and  perme- 
ability ^0 ,  while  the  exterior  region  has  permittivity  e,  permeability  no , 
and  conductivity  a.  The  superscripts  i  and  e  refer  to  the  interior  and  ex- 
terior regions  respectively,  and  the  a's  and  6's  are  amplitude  coefficients. 

6  J.  R.  Pierce,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  35,  pp.  111-123,  1947. 

*  S.  Sensiper,  Electromagnetic  Wave  Propagation  on  Helical  Conductors,  Sc.D. 
thesis,  M.I.T.,  1951.  In  Appendix  B  of  this  reference,  Sensiper  shows  that  when 
the  interior  and  exterior  media  are  the  same,  only  slow  waves  will  exist  except  in 
special  cases.  Fast  guided  waves  become  possible  if  the  conductivity  of  the  exterior 
medium  is  sufficiently  high. 

'J.  A.  Stratton,  Electromagnetic  Theory,  McGraw-Hill,  New  York,  1941,  pp. 
524-527.  Note  that  Stratton  uses  the  time  dependence  exp  (—icot). 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1353 


Attention  is  restricted  to  waves  traveling  in  the  positive  ^-direction, 
which  are  represented  by  the  factor  exp  {  —  ihz),  where  /i  (  =  /3  —  ia)  is 
the  complex  phase  constant.  However  it  is  necessary  to  consider  both 
right  and  left  circularly  polarized  waves;  this  accounts  for  the  use  of 
both  positive  and  negative  values  of  n. 

Substitution  of  (2),   (3),  and  (4)  into  the  boundary  conditions  (1) 
leads  to  the  following  set  of  equations: 


V  2  ,        ,        hn 
fi  tan  \l/  —  — 
a 


Jn(^ia)an   +  i(^iJ.(ihJn'{tia)hn    =  0 


^2  tan  yp  —  — 
a 


(5) 


•to;eofiJ«'(fia)a„*  + 


.  2  .        ,       hn 
fi   tan  yp  —  — 
a 


Jn(^ia)hn 


(2)', 


+  (o-  +  icoe)^2Hn  '   {^2a)an 


[ 


>  2  +       ,       hn 
ti  tan  \l/  —  — 
a 


Hr.''\ha)h:  =  0 


If  the  conductivity  of  the  exterior  region  is  infinite,  it  is  possible  to 
satisfy  the  boundary  conditions  with  only  one  of  the  amplitude  coeffi- 
cients different  from  zero;  for  example 


hn   =  a«'  =  6„*  =  0 


a„ 


0 


or 


dn     —    CLn     =    bn     =    0 

bj  9^  0 


Jni^xO)    =    0  Jn'iria)    =    0 

The  first  case  corresponds  to  TM  modes  and  the  second  to  TE  modes 
in  a  perfectly  conducting  circular  guide.  Linearlj^  polarized  modes  may 
be  represented  as  combinations  of  terms  in  a,/  and  a-n\  or  bn  and  6_„*. 
If  the  exterior  region  is  not  perfectly  conducting,  one  can  still  find 
solutions  having  the  fields  confined  to  the  interior  region  by  propedy 
choosing  the  angle  of  the  perfectly  conducting  helical  sheath.  For  exam- 
ple, it  is  easy  to  verify  that  equations  (5)  are  satisfied  under  the  follow- 
ing conditions: 


ttn 


an    =  bn    =  0 


bj  9^  0 


tan  yp  = 


hn 


Jn'i^ia)  =  0 


1354       THE   BELL   SYSTEM  TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

li  n  9^   0,  these  conditions  correspond  to  circularly  polarized  TE„ 
waves,  in  which  the  wall  currents  follow  the  direction  of  the  conducting 
sheath.  If  n  =  0,  then  i^  =  0,  and  one  has  TEom  modes  with  circum- 
ferential currents  only.  \ 
The  equations  can  also  be  satisfied  with 

bn     =    ttn     =    bn      =    0 
ttn     9^  0 

yl^  =  90° 
Jnitia)  =  0 

corresponding  to  the  TM„m  modes  (either  circularly  or  linearly  polarized) 
of  a  perfectly  conducting  pipe,  which  are  associated  with  longitudinal 
wall  currents  only. 

In  the  general  case  when  the  jacket  is  not  perfectly  conducting  and 
the  helix  pitch  angle  is  not  restricted  to  special  values,  it  is  necessary  to 
solve  (5)  simultaneously  for  the  field  amplitudes.  The  equations  admit  a 
nontrivial  solution  if  and  only  if  the  determinant  of  the  coefficients  of 
the  a's  and  b's  vanishes.  The  transcendental  equation  which  results  from 
equating  the  determinant  of  the  coefficients  to  zero  is 


f: 


f  1  tan  V   —  r—  )     r  it^     \   ~   ^  Moeo 


=    t. 


(6) 

(2)// 


f 2  tan  1^  -  -—  I         , —  CO  MoeoCe    -  te  )  ,  - 

f2ay  H^V'{^2a)  Hr.^"\^2a)  J 


The  solution  of  this  equation  determines  the  propagation  constant  ih 
and  therefore  the  attenuation  and  phase  constants  a  and  /3.  When  ih 
has  been  obtained,  it  is  a  straightforward  matter  to  determine  the  a  and 
b  coefficients  from  equations  (5)  and  the  electric  and  magnetic  fields 
from  (2),  (3),  and  (4). 

"It  is  well  known^  that  the  only  pure  TE  or  TM  modes  that  can  exist 
in  a  circular  waveguide  with  walls  of  finite  conductivity  are  the  circularly 
symmetric  TEom  and  TMom  modes.  The  other  modes  are  all  mixed  modes 
Avhose  fields  are  not  transverse  with  respect  to  either  the  electric  or  the 
magnetic  vector.  In  general  the  modes  of  helix  waveguide  are  also  mixed 
modes,  and  no  entirely  satisfactory  scheme  for  labeling  them  has  been 
proposed.  In  the  present  paper  we  shall  call  the  modes  TE„m  or  TM„m 
according  to  the  limits  which  they  approach  as  the  jacket  conductivity 
becomes  infinite,  even  though  they  are  no  longer  transverse  and  their 

8  Reference  7,  p.  526. 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE  1355 

field  patterns  may  be  quite  different  when  the  jacket  is  lossy.  This  sys- 
tem is  not  completely  unambiguous,  because  as  will  appear  in  Section 
IV  the  mode  designations  thus  obtained  are  not  always  unique.  However 
it  is  a  satisfactory  way  to  identify  the  modes  so  long  as  the  jacket  con- 
ductivity is  high  enough  for  the  loss  to  be  treated  as  a  perturbation. 
Approximations  derived  on  this  basis  are  presented  in  the  next  section. 

III.   APPROXIMATE   EXPRESSIONS   FOR    PROPAGATION   CONSTANTS 

If  the  jacket  were  perfectly  conducting,  the  helix  waveguide  modes 
would  be  the  same  as  in  an  ideal  circular  waveguide,  with  propagation 
constants  given  by 

where 

V  =  Xo/Xc  =  p\o/2Tra 

p  =  ??i*^  zero  of  Jnix)  for  TM„m  mode,  or  rn^^  zero  of  Jn(x)  for  TE„m 
mode 

If  the  jacket  conductivity  is  sufficiently  large,  approximate  solutions 
of  (6)  may  be  found  by  replacing  Hn'\^2a)  and  Hn'^'i^iO)  with  their 
asymptotic  expressions,  and  expanding  Jni^ia)  or  Jn'(^ia)  in  a  Taylor 
series  near  a  particular  zero.  This  calculation  is  carried  out  in  the  ap- 
pendix. The  propagation  constant  may  be  written  in  the  form 

ih  =  a  +  i{^nm  +  A|S) 
where  to  first  order  the  perturbation  terms  are 
TM„„  modes 

a  +  m  =     ,\  ^  \„  rXT-^r-,  (7a) 

a(l  —  v-y^  1  -\-  tan^  \p 

TE„TO  modes 

a  4-  i\B  -      ^  +  ''^         ^V"      [tan  ^  -  n(l  -  vyVyvf     .  ,  . 
^'^^~a(l  -, 2)1/2  ^^^7^2  1  -f  tan^  ^  ^'^^ 

and 

?  +  ^>  =  (e'  -  ie'T'" 
e    =   e/eo  ,  e     =  cr/coeo 

The  approximations  made  in  deriving  (7)  are  discussed  in  the  appen- 


1356       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

dix.  In  practice,  the  range  of  validity  of  these  expressions  is  usually 
limited  by  the  criterion 

/1  2\l/2 

^^^"^^      \a  +  iA^\«l  (8) 

V 

The  numerical  calculations  described  in  Section  IV  indicate  that  the 
approximations  are  good  so  long  as  the  left-hand  side  of  (8)  is  less  than 
about  0.1,  and  that  they  break  down  a  little  sooner  for  TE  modes  than 
for  TM  modes. 

Inspection  of  (7)  reveals  three  cases  of  particular  interest,  namely 
^  =  0°,\p  =  tan~^  w(l  —  v^f^/pp,  and  i/-  =  90°.  These  cases,  which  were 
mentioned  in  Section  II  and  are  discussed  again  below,  correspond  to 
preferential  propagation  of  certain  modes,  in  which  the  wall  currents 
follow  the  direction  of  the  conducting  helix.  The  preferred  modes  have 
zero  attenuation  in  the  present  treatment  because  the  helical  sheath  is 
assumed  to  be  perfectly  conducting.  In  practical  helices  wound  from 
insulated  copper  wire  the  loss  should  be  only  slightly  greater  than  in 
round  copper  pipe  of  the  same  diameter.  The  slight  increase  (of  magni- 
tude 10  per  cent  to  30  per  cent)  is  due  to  the  slightly  nonuniform  cur- 
rent distribution  in  the  wires,  an  effect  that  can  be  kept  small  by  keeping 
the  gaps  between  the  wires  of  the  helix  small.  In  general  the  attenuation 
constants  of  modes  whose  wall  currents  do  not  follow  the  helix  are  orders 
of  magnitude  larger  than  the  attenuation  constants  of  the  preferred 
modes. 

iA  =  0° 

The  circular  electric  (TEom)  modes  have  attenuation  constants  sub- 
stantially the  same  as  in  solid  copper  pipe.  The  additional  TEom  loss  if 
the  pitch  angle  is  not  quite  zero  is  proportional  to  tan^  \{/.  This  added  loss 
can  be  made  very  small  by  using  fine  wire  for  winding  the  helix. 

The  losses  for  the  unwanted  modes  can  be  made  large  by  a  proper 
choice  of  jacket  material.  When  ^  =  0,  equations  (7)  yield 


TM„„j  modes 


a(l  —  v^y^ 


TE„m  modes 


a  +  iA/3  =  i^ 'J-  -^^  (^  +  iv)  (9b) 

a         p^  —  n^ 


HELIX    WAVEGUIDE  1357 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  compare  the  attenuation  constants  given  by 
(9)  with  the  results  obtained  by  calculating  the  power  dissipated  in  the 
walls  of  a  pipe'  which  has  different  resistances  in  the  circumferential  and 
longitudinal  directions.  If  the  wall  resistance  for  circumferential  currents 
is  represented  by  Re  and  for  longitudinal  currents  by  Rz ,  the  expressions 
for  a  are 

TM nm  modes 

Rz 

a 


TE„TO  modes 


a  = 


{(xo/eoY'-aa  -  I'V 


Rev'  +  Rz{n/v)\l  -  v')       p' 


(Mo/€o)^/-a(l   -  i/'Y'^       p2  _  ^2 

The  results  for  ordinary  metallic  pipe  are  obtained  by  setting 

Re  =  Rz  —  R  =  (co^o/2cr) 

[f   Re   =   0,    the    expressions    above   agree    with    (9),    inasmuch    as 
I   =  R(eo/ixo)  '"  when  the  jacket  conductivity  is  large. 

4/  —  tan~^  n(l  —  v')^''/vv,  n  ^  0 

For  this  value  of  rp  the  circularly  polarized  TE„^  mode  which  varies  as 
exp(—in9)  has  low  attenuation.  (We  assume  7i  9^  0,  since  the  case 
n  =  0  has  been  treated  above.)  One  of  the  properties  of  helix  waveguide 
is  the  difference  in  propagation  between  right  and  left  circularly  polarized 
TE„m  modes.  By  properly  designing  the  helix  angle  for  the  frequency, 
mode,  and  size  of  guide,  the  loss  to  one  of  the  polarizations  can  be  made 
very  low.  If  the  jacket  is  lossy  enough  the  attenuation  of  the  other 
polarization  should  be  quite  high.  Thus  only  one  of  the  circularly  polar- 
ized modes  should  be  propagated  through  a  long  pipe.  Such  a  helix  has 
features  analogous  to  the  optical  properties  of  levulose  and  dextrose 
solutions,  which  distinguish  between  left  and  right  circularly  polarized 
light. 

Let  an  be  the  attenuation  constant  of  the  mode  which  varies  as 
exp{  —  i7i9),  and  a_„  the  attenuation  constant  of  the  mode  which  varies 


^  S.  A.  Schelkunoff,  Electromagnetic  Waves,  van  Nostrand,  New  York,  1943, 
pp.  385-387. 


1358       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

as  exp  (-{-ind).  Then  from  (7b),  for  any  pitch  angle  t/', 

^        p'  v'  [tan  ^  +  7i(l  -  vflvvf 

a  -n    =    - 


i 


CXn    = 


a 


-n   —   a„    =    4 


a  p2  _  ^2  (1  -  v'yi'  1  +  tan2  yf, 

^       p  V  [tan  \p  —  n{l  —  v^Y'  /pvf 

ap^  -  n''  {1  -  v2)i/2  1  +  tan-  rp 

^       np  V  tan  ip 


ap"^  —  'n?  1  -\-  tan^  yp 

The  mode  which  varies  as  exp(  — zn0)  has  lower  loss  if  \p  and  n  have  the 
same  sign. 

The  TM„m  attenuation  constants  are  independent  of  polarization  and 
are  given  by  (7a). 

yp  =  90° 

These  "helices,"  with  wires  parallel  to  the  axis  of  the  waveguide, 
should  propagate  TM„m  modes  with  losses  approximately  the  same  as 
in  copper  pipe.  For  the  TE„„i  modes,  (7b)  gives 

TEnm  modes 

2  2 

a  +  iA(3  =  "  -T^—2  (^  +  ^■'?) 

a(l  —  j'-)^'-  p^  —  v} 

IV.   NUMERICAL   SOLUTIONS    FOR   ZERO-PITCH  HELICES 

The  main  interest  in  helix  waveguide  is  for  small  pitch  angles  where 
the  TEoi  attenuation  is  very  low.  The  propagation  constants  of  various 
lossy  modes  in  helix  guides  of  zero  pitch  have  been  calculated  by  solving 
the  characteristic  equation  (6)  numerically.  These  calculations  will  now 
be  described. 

Equation  (6)  is  first  simplified  by  setting  yp  —  Q  and  replacing  the 
Hankel  functions  with  their  asymptotic  expressions.  The  condition  for 
validity  of  the  asymptotic  expressions,  namely 

I  r2a  I  »  I  {^n    -  l)/8  I 

is  well  satisfied  in  all  cases  to  be  treated  here.  Equation  (6)  may  then  be 
rearranged  in  the  dimensionless  form 

Fni^a)  =  i^oaf  [{nhafJn\Ua)  -  (/5ca)'(fia)V„''(ria)] 

-  i{^,af  [{nhaf  -f  (^oa)^(e'  -  Z6")(^a)V/(fia)/n(fia)     (10) 
=  0 
There  is  no  difference  between  the  propagation  constants  of  right  and 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE  1359 

left  circularly  polarized  waves  when  xp  =  0.  Using  the  relationships 

ha  =  KM'  +  (M'  (e'  -  ie"  -  l)f\         Im^a  <  0 

ha  =  {%af  -  (rla)T'^         Im  /la  <  0 

it  is  clear  that  Fni^a)  is  an  even  function  of  ^a,  involving  the  parame- 
ters Pott  (=  27ra/Xo),  e',  e",  and  n. 

When  specific  values  have  been  assigned  to  /3oa,  e',  and  e",  roots  of 
(10)  can  be  found  numerically  by  the  straightforward  procedure  of 
evaluating  Fni^a)  at  a  regular  network  of  points  in  the  plane  of  the 
complex  variable  ^a,  plotting  the  families  of  curves  Re  F„  =  0  and 
Im  Fn  =  0,  and  reading  off  the  values  of  ^a  corresponding  to  the  inter- 
sections of  curves  of  the  two  families. 

The  procedure  just  outlined  has  been  applied  to  the  cases  n  =  0  and 
n  =  1.  When  n  =  0  one  can  take  out  of  Fo(fia)  the  factor  Jo'(fia),  whose 
roots  correspond  to  the  TEom  modes;  the  roots  of  the  other  factor  are 
the  TMom-limit  modes.  When  n  =  1  the  function  Fi(ha)  does  not  factor, 
and  its  roots  correspond  to  both  TEi^-limit  and  TMi^-limit  modes.  If 
the  jacket  conductivity  is  high  it  is  easy  to  identify  the  various  limit 
modes,  and  a  given  mode  can  be  traced  continuously  if  the  conductivity 
is  decreased  in  sufficently  small  steps. 

The  numerical  calculations  were  set  up,  more  or  less  arbitrarily,  to 
cover  the  region  0  ^  Re  ^a  ^  10,  —10  ^  Im  ^a  ^  10,  for  each  set 
of  parameter  values.  A  few  plots  of  Re  Fn  and  Im  Fn  made  it  apparent 
that  for  propagating  modes  the  roots  in  this  region  are  all  in  the  first 
quadrant  and  usually  near  the  real  axis.  The  entire  process  of  solution 
was  then  programmed  by  Mrs.  F.  M.  Laurent  for  automatic  execution 
on  an  IBM  650  magnetic  drum  calculator.  The  calculator  first  evaluated 
Fni^ci)  at  a  network  of  points  spaced  half  a  unit  apart  in  both  directions, 
then  examined  the  sign  changes  of  Re  F„  and  Im  Fn  around  each  ele- 
mentary square.  If  it  appeared  that  a  particular  square  might  contain 
a  root  of  Fn  ,  the  values  of  Fn  at  the  four  corner  points  were  fitted  by  an 
interpolating  cubic  polynomial °  which  was  then  solved.  If  the  cubic 
had  a  root  inside  the  given  square,  this  was  recorded  as  an  approximate 
root  of  Fn  .  The  normalized  propagation  constant  iha  =  aa  -{-  i(3a  was 
also  recorded  for  each  root. 

The  calculated  roots  ^a  and  the  normalized  propagation  constants 
are  summarized  in  Tables  1(a)  to  1(f),  which  relate  to  the  following  cases: 

Table  1(a)— /3oa  =  29.554,  e'  =  4,  e"  variable 

Table  1(b)  —/3oa  =  29.554,  e'  =  100,  e"  variable 

Table  1(c)  —/3oa  =  29.554,  e    =  e",  both  variable 

10  A.  N.  Lowan  and  H.  E.  Salzer,  Jour.  Math,  and  Phys.,  23,  p.  157,  1944. 


1360       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Table  1(d)  —  M  =  12.930,  e'  =  4,  e"  variable 

Table  1(e)  —  fi.a  =  12.930,  e'  =  e",  both  variable 

Table  1(f)  —  fi^a  =  6.465,  e'  =  4,  e"  variable  j 

The  three  values  of  ^oa  correspond  to  waveguides  of  diameter  2  inches, 
I  inch,  and  ye  inch  at  Xo  =  5.4  mm.  The  jacket  materials  (mostly  carbon- 
loaded  resins)  which  have  been  tested  to  date  show  a  range  of  relative 
permittivities  roughly  from  4  to  100.  There  is  some  indication  that  the 
permittivity  of  a  carbon-loaded  resin  increases  as  its  conductivity  in- 
creases; this  suggested  consideration  of  the  case  e    =  e  . 

The  tables  cover  the  range  from  e"  =  1000  down  to  e"  =  1  at  small 
enough  intervals  so  that  the  general  course  of  each  mode  can  be  followed. 
It  is  worth  noting  that  at  5.4  mm  a  resistivity  (l/o-)  of  1  ohm  cm  cor- 
responds to  e'  =32.  Copper  at  this  frequency  has  an  e  of  approxi- 
mately 2  X  10^ 

In  general  the  tables  include  the  modes  derived  from  Fo(^ia)  whose 
limits  are  TMoi ,  TM02 ,  and  TM03 ,  and  the  modes  derived  from  /^i(fia) 
whose  limits  are  TEu  ,  TMn  ,  TE12 ,  TM12 ,  and  TE13  (except  that  in 
the  i^-inch  guide  TM03,  TM12 ,  and  TE13  are  cut  off).  Some  results  are 
given  for  the  TMis-limit  mode,  namely  those  which  satisfy  the  arbitrary 
criterion  Re  fia  ^  10;  but  these  results  are  incomplete  because  for  large 
e"  the  corresponding  root  of  Fi(^ia)  approaches  10.173.  Furthermore  for 
small  values  of  e"  the  attenuation  constants  of  a  few  of  the  TM-limit 
modes  become  quite  large  and  the  corresponding  values  of  ^la  move  far 
away  from  the  origin.  Since  our  object  was  to  make  a  general  survey 
rather  than  to  investigate  any  particular  mode  exhaustively,  we  did  not 
attempt  to  pursue  these  modes  outside  the  region  originally  proposed 
for  study. 

The  results  of  the  IBM  calculations  are  recorded  in  Table  I  to  three 
decimal  places.  Since  the  roots  f  la  were  obtained  by  cubic  interpolation 
in  a  square  of  side  0.5,  the  last  place  is  not  entirely  reliable;  but  spot 
checks  on  a  few  of  the  roots  by  successive  approximations  indicate  that 
it  is  probably  not  off  by  more  than  one  or  two  units.  The  propagation 
constants  of  some  of  the  relatively  low-loss  modes  (especially  TE12  and 
TE13 ,  whose  wall  currents  are  largely  circumferential)  were  calculated 
from  the  approximate  formulas,*  as  noted  in  the  tables.  The  attenuation 

(Text  continued  on  page  1375) 


*  The  formulas  used  were  (A9)  and  (AlO)  of  the  appendix,  which  are  slightly 
more  accurate  than  (7)  of  the  text. 


Table  1(a)  — 

2-INCH  Guide  at  Xq  =  c 

).4  MM  (/3oa  =  29.554) 

WITH  e'  =  4  AND  t"  Variable 

Limit  Mode 

€" 

fia 

aa  +  t/3o 

TMoi 

00 

2.405 

29.4561 

1000 

2.154  +  0.384i 

0.028  +  29.4781 

250 

2.094  +  0.974i 

0.069  +  29.4961 

100 

2.408  +  1.679i 

0.137  +  29.5041 

90 

2.482  +  1.772i 

0.149  +  29.5031 

SO 

2.579  +  1.878i 

0.164  +  29.5021 

64 

2.804  +  2.083i 

0.198  +  29.4951 

40 

3.519  +  2.547i 

0.304  +  29.4561 

25 

4.604  +  3.165i 

0.496  +  29.3691 

16 

5.870  +  3.763i 

0.756  +  29.2191 

10 

7.564  +  4.131i 

1.082  +  28.8871 

8 

8.464  +  4.158i 

1.229  +  28.6461 

TM02 

00 

5.520 

29.0341 

1000 

5.399  +  0.127i 

0.024  +  29.0571 

250 

5.274  +  0.268i 

0.049  +  29.0811 

100 

5.109  +  0.445i 

0.078  +  29.1131 

90 

5.081  +  0.472i 

0.082  +  29.1181 

80 

5.047  +  0.504i 

0.087  +  29.1251 

64 

4.968  +  0.569i 

0.097  +  29.1391 

40 

4.716  +  0.701i 

0.113  +  29.1841 

25 

4.375  +  0.677i 

0.101  +  29.2371 

16 

4.172  +  0.551i 

0.079  +  29.2641 

10 

4.047  +  0.448i 

0.062  +  29.2791 

8 

4.004  +  0.412i 

0.056  +  29.2851 

4 

3.905  +  0.344i 

0.046  +  29.2971 

1 

3.820  +  0.310i 

0.040  +  29.3081 

TM03 

00 

8.654 

28.2591 

1000 

8.577  +  0.078i 

0.024  +  28.2821 

250 

8.500  +  0.1601 

0.048  +  28.3061 

100 

8.408  +  0.260i 

0.077  +  28.3341 

90 

8.395  +  0.275i 

0.081  +  28.3381 

80 

8.378  +  0.293i 

0.086  +  28.3431 

64 

8.344  +  0.330i 

0.097  +  28.3541 

40 

8.253  +  0.424i 

0.123  +  28.3821 

25 

8.125  -t-  0.545i 

0.156  +  28.4211 

16 

7.943  +  0.678i 

0.189  +  28.4751 

10 

7.658  +  0.779i 

0.209  +  28.5561 

8 

7.511  +  0.780i 

0.205  +  28.5951 

4 

7.200  +  0.693i 

0.174  +  28.6731 

1 

6.986  +  0.612i 

0.149  +  28.7241 

TEii 

00 

1.841 

29.4971 

1000 

1.703  +  0.234i 

0.014  +  29.5061 

250 

1.764  +  0.630i 

0.038  +  29.5081 

100 

2.465  +  0.963i 

0.081  +  29.4671 

90 

2.660  +  0.748i 

0.068  +  29.4441 

80 

2.633  +  0.604i 

0.054  +  29.4431 

64 

2.594  +  0.464i 

0.041  +  29.4441 

40 

2.546  +  0.312i 

0.027  +  29.4461 

25 

2.508  +  0.226i 

0.019  +  29.4481 

16 

2.481  +  0.176i 

0.015  +  29.4501 

10 

2.455  +  0.140i 

0.012  +  29.4521 

8 

2.445  +  0.129i 

0.011  +  29.4531 

4 

2.418  +  0.106i 

0.009  +  29.4551 

1 

2.394  +  0.095i 

0.008  +  29.4571 

1361 


Table  1(a)  —  Continued 


Limit  Mode 

t" 

rw 

aa  +  i/3o 

TMn 

00 

3.832 

29.305i 

1000 

3.652  +  0.197i 

0.024  +  29.328i 

250 

3.457  +  0.440i 

0.052  +  29.355i 

100 

2.978  +  0.880i 

0.089  +  29.417i 

90 

2.821  +  1.215i 

0.116  +  29.445i 

80 

2.945  +  1.476i 

0.148  +  29.444i 

64 

3.146  +  1.868i 

0.200  +  29.446i 

40 

3.728  +  2.564i 

0.325  +  29.432i 

25 

4.659  +  3.175i 

0.504  +  29.361i 

16 

5.921  +  3.727i 

0.756  +  29.204i 

10 

7.613  +  4.135i 

1.090  +  28.875i 

8 

8.487  +  4.153i 

1.231  +  28.639i 

TE.2 

00 

5.331 

29.069i 

1000 

0.0008  +  29.070i* 

250 

0.0016  +  29.071i* 

100 

0.0026  +  29.072i* 

64 

0.0033  +  29.072i* 

40 

0.0042  +  29.073i* 

25 

0.0055  +  29.074i* 

10 

0.0092  +  29.075i* 

4 

5.297  f  0.072i 

0.013    +  29.076i 

1 

5.322  +  0.096i 

0.018    +  29.071i 

TMi2 

00 

7.016 

28.710i 

1000 

6.918  +  0.099i 

0.024    +  28.733i 

250 

6.821  +  0.203i 

0.048    +  28.757i 

100 

6.701  +  0.330i 

0.077    +  28.786i 

90 

6.683  +  0.349i 

0.081    +  28.791i 

80 

6.660  +  0.372i 

0.0S6    +  28.796i 

64 

6.612  +  0.419i 

0.096    +  28.808i 

40 

6.475  +  0.535i 

0.120    +28.8411 

25 

6.253  +  0.655i 

0.142    +28.8931 

16 

5.965  +  0.682i 

0.141     +28.9541 

10 

5.719  +  0.590i 

0.116    +29.0021 

8 

5.641  +  0.541i 

0.105    +29.0161 

4 

5.471  +  0.419i 

0.079    +  29.0471 

1 

5.317  +  0.347i 

0.063    +  29.0741 

TEi3 

00 

8.536 

28.2951 

1000 

0.0003  +  28.2951* 

250 

0.0006  +  28.2951* 

100 

0.0010  +  28.2961* 

64 

0.0012  +  28.2961* 

40 

0.0016  +  28.2961* 

25 

0.0020  +  28.2961* 

10 

0.0034  +  28.2971* 

4 

0.0050  +  28.2961* 

1 

0.0058  +  28.2951* 

TM„ 

00 

10.173 

27.7481 

100 

9.963  4-  0.219i 

0.078    +  27.8251 

90 

9.952  +  0.231i 

0.083    +  27.8291 

80 

9.938  +  0.246i 

0.088    +  27.8341 

64 

9.911  +  0.277i 

0.098    +  27.8451 

40 

9.840  +  0.356i 

0.126    +  27.8701 

25 

9.746  +  0.460i 

0.101    +27.9051 

16 

9.625  +  0.591i 

0.204    +  27.9501 

10 

9.433  +  0.757i 

0.255    +  28.0201 

8 

9.305  +  0.837i 

0.278    +  28.0651 

4 

8.836  +  0.898i 

0.281    +  28.2181 

1 

8.485  +  0.781i 

0.234    +  28.3221 

Approximate  formula. 


1362 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1363 


Table  1(b)  — 2-inch  Guide  at  Xo  =  5.4  mm  (/Soa  =  29.554) 
WITH  e'  =  100  AND  e"  Variable 


Limit  Mode 

t" 

fia 

aa  +  i^a 

TMe. 

00 

2.405 

29.456i 

1000 

2.178  +  0.391i 

0.029    +  29.4761 

250 

2.291  +  0.885i 

0.069    +  29.4791 

100 

2.677  +  1.062i 

0.097     +  29.4521 

80 

2.764  +  1.047i 

0.098    +  29.4431 

64 

2.834  +  1.0191 

0.098    +  29.4361 

40 

2.928  +  0.950i 

0.094    +  29.4241 

25 

2.973  +  0.893i 

0.090    +  29.4181 

10 

3.004  +  0.831i 

0.085    +  29.4131 

4 

3.013  +  0.806i 

0.083    +  29.4111 

1 

3.016  +  0.793i 

0.081    +  29.4111 

TMo2 

00 

5.520 

29.0341 

1000 

5.406  +  0.133i 

0.025    +  29.0561 

250 

5.339  +  0.298i 

0.055    +  29.0691 

100 

5.372  +  0.473i 

0.087    +  29.0661 

SO 

5.398  +  0.508i 

0.094    +  29.0621 

64 

5.429  +  0.535i 

0.100    +  29.0561 

40 

5.492  +  0.566i 

0.107    +  29.0451 

25 

5.540  +  0.573i 

0.109    +  29.0361 

10 

5.589  +  0.569i 

0.109    +  29.0271 

4 

5.608  +  0.563i 

0.109    +29.0231 

1 

5.617  +  0.560i 

0.108    +  29.0211 

TMo3 

00 

8.654 

28.2591 

1000 

8.581  +  0.082i 

0.025    +  28.2811 

250 

8.537  +  0.179i 

0.054    +  28.2951 

100 

8.548  +  0.279i 

0.084    +  28.2921 

80 

8.561  +  0.300i 

0.091     +  28.2891 

64 

8.575  +  0.317i 

0.096    +  28.2851 

40 

8.606  +  0.339i 

0.103    +28.2761 

25 

8.630  +  0.348i 

0.106    +  28.2681 

10 

8.658  +  0.352i 

0.108    +  28.2601 

4 

8.669  +  0.352i 

0.108    +  28.2571 

1 

8.675  +  0.351i 

0.108    +  28.2551 

TEn 

00 

1.841 

29.4971 

1000 

1.719  +  0.236i 

0.014    +  29.5051 

250 

1.871  +  0.504i 

0.032    +  29.4991 

100 

2.132  +  0.484i 

0.035    +  29.4811 

80 

2.161  +  0.451i 

0.033    +  29.4791 

64 

2.178  +  0.420i 

0.031     +  29.4771 

40 

2.191  +  0.372i 

0.028    +  29.4751 

25 

2.192  +  0.343i 

0.026    +  29.4751 

10 

2.190  +  0.316i 

0.023    +  29.4751 

4 

2.188  +  0.306i 

0.023    +  29.4751 

1 

2.187  +  0.301i 

0.022    +  29.4751 

1364       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL 

JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Table  1(b)  — 

Continued 

Limit  Mode 

«" 

fia 

aa  +  i^a 

TMa 

00 

3.832 

29.305i 

1000 

3.663  +  0.204 

I                        0.026    +  29.3271 

250 

3.579  +  0.485 

I                        0.059    +  29.341i 

100 

3.715  +  0.788 

I                        0.100    +  29.331i 

80 

3.787  +  0.826 

I                        0.107    +  29.322i 

64 

3.856  +  0.843 

1                        0.111     +  29.3141 

40 

3.969  +  0.836 

I                          0.113     +  29.299i 

25 

4.043  +  0.817 

I                        0.113    +  29.288i 

10 

4.100  +  0.777 

I                        0.109    +  29.279i 

4 

4.119  +  0.759 

I                        0.107    +29.2761 

1 

4.128  +  0.749 

I                        0.106    +  29.2741 

TE12 

00 

5.331 

29.0691 

1000 

0.0008  +  29.070i* 

250 

0.0018  +  29.0711* 

100 

0.0028  +  29.0711* 

64 

0.0032  +  29.0701* 

40 

0.0034  +  29.0701* 

25 

0.0035  +  29.0701* 

10 

0.0036  +  29.0701* 

4 

0.0036  +  29.0701* 

1 

0.0036  +  29.0691* 

TM12 

00 

7.016 

28.7101 

1000 

6.923  +  0.103 

I                        0.025    +  28.7321                 1 

250 

6.868  +  0.226 

I                        0.054    +  28.746i                 \ 

100 

6.885  +  0.355 

I                        0.085    +  28.7431                 1 

80 

6.902  +  0.381 

I                        0.092    +  28.7401                 { 

64 

6.922  +  0.403 

1                         0.097    +  28.7351                 ^ 

40 

6.965  +  0.429 

I                        0.104    +  28.7251 

25 

7.000  +  0.440 

I                        0.107    +28.7171                 ; 

10 

7.037  +  0.443 

I                        0.109    +  28.7081 

4 

7.051  +  0.441 

L                        0.108    +  28.7041 

1 

7.058  +  0.440 

I                        0.108    +  28.7031 

TEx3 

00 

8.536 

28.2951 

1000 

0.0003  +  28.2951*                ! 

250 

0.0007  +  28.2951* 

100 

0.0010  +  28.2951* 

64 

0.0012  +  28.2951* 

40 

0.0013  +  28.2951* 

25 

0.0013  +  28.2951* 

10 

0.0013  +  28.2951* 

4 

0.0013  +  28.2951* 

1 

0.0013  +  28.2951* 

Approximate  formula. 


Table  1(c)  — 

2-INCH  Guide  at  Xq  =   5 
WITH  e    =  e 

.4  MM  (I3,a  =  29.554) 

Limit  Mode 

e'  and  e" 

fia 

aa  +  i0a 

TMoi 

CO 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

32 

25 

16 

12 

10 

4 

2 

1 

2.405 

2.338  +  0.341i 
2.418  +  0.707i 
2.677  +  1.062i 
2.925  +  1.226i 
3.309  +  1.324i 
3.540  +  1.299i 
3.787  +  1.162i 
3.946  +  0.800i 
3.950  +  0.647i 
3.946  +  0.573i 
3.905  +  0.344i 
3.869  +  0.252i 
3.820  +  0.185i 

29.4561 

0.027     +  29.4641 
0.058    +  29.4641 
0.097     +  29.4521 
0.122    +  29.4351 
0.149    +  29.3991 
0.156    +  29.3711 
0.150    +  29.3341 
0.108    +  29.3011 
0.087     +  29.2961 
0.077    +  29.2951 
0.046    +  29.2971 
0.033    +  29.3011 
0.024    +  29.3071 

TM02 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

32 

25 

16 

12 

10 

5.520 

5.469  +  0.136i 
5.423  +  0.282i 
5.372  +  0.473i 
5.337  +  0.624i 
5.294  +  0.874i 
5.279  +  1.0611 
5.319  +  1.367i 
5.852  +  1.969i 
6.472  +  2.1781 
7.026  +  2.1981 

29.0341 
0.026    +  29.0441 
0.053     +  29.0541 
0.087     +  29.0661 
0.115     +  29.0751 
0.159     +29.0901 
0.193     +  29.0991 
0.250    +  29.1051 
0.397    +  29.0391 
0.4S7     +  28.9231 
0.536    +  28.7961 

TM03 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

32 

25 

16 

12 

10 

4 

2 

1 

8.654 

8.620  +  0.0851 
8.587  +  0.1731 
8.548  +  0.2791 
8.521  +  0.3551 
8.483  +  0.4611 
8.458  +  0.5261 
8.425  +  0.6111 
8.330  +  0.8241 
8.206  +  1.0371 
8.034  +  1.2401 
7.200  +  0.6931 
7.098  +  0.4831 
6.998  +  0.3491 

28.2591 
0.026    +  28.2691 
0.052    +  28.2801 
0.084    +  28.2921 
0.107     +  28.3021 
0.138    +  28.3151 
0.157    +28.3231 
0.182    +  28.3351 
0.242    +  28.3691 
0.300    +  28.4131 
0.350    +  28.4711 
0.174    +  28.6731 
0.120    +  28.6941 
0.085    +  28.7161 

TEu 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

32 

25 

16 

12 

10 

4 

2 

1 

1.841 

1.810  +  0.1901 
1.911  +  0.3841 
2.132  +  0.4841 
2.270  +  0.4531 
2.365  +  0.3661 
2.389  +  0.3241 
2.406  +  0.2811 
2.420  +  0.2191 
2.424  +  0.1871 
2.424  +  0.1691 
2.418  +  0.1061 
2.409  +  0.0781 
2.394  +  0.0561 

29.4971 
0.012    +  29.4991 
0.025    +  29.4951 
0.035    +  29.4811 
0.035    +  29.4701 
0.029     +  29.4621 
0.026    +  29.4591 
0.023    +  29.4571 
0.018    +  29.4561 
0.015    +  29.4551 
0.014    +  29.4551 
0.009    +  29.4551 
0.006    +  29.4561 
0.005    +  29.4571 

1365 


Table  1(c) — Continued 

'V 

Limit  Mode 

«'  and  e" 

ria 

aa  +  i/3a                              I 

TMu 

oo 

3.832 

29.3051 

1000 

3.759  +  0.203i 

0.026    +  29.3151 

250 

3.714  +  0.439i 

0.056    +  29.3231 

100 

3.715  +  0.788i 

0.100    +  29.3311 

64 

3.797  +  1.070i 

0.139    +  29.3291 

40 

4.080  +  1.400i 

0.195    +  29.3051 

32 

4.276  +  1.550i 

0.226    +  29.2851 

25 

4.586  +  1.661i 

0.260    +  29.2451 

16 

5.359  +  1.579i 

0.291     +29.1091 

1 

12 

5.587  +  1.043i 

0.201     +  29.0411 

10 

5.560  +  0.859i 

0.164    +  29.0401 

4 

5.471  +  0.419i 

0.079    +  29.0471 

2 

5.438  +  0.249i 

0.047    +  29.0511 

1 

5.444  +  0.131i 

0.025    +  29.0491 

TEi2 

1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 

5.331 

29.0691 
0.0009  +  29.0701* 
0.0018  +  29.0701* 
0.0028  +  29.0711* 
0.0035  +  29.0711* 
0.0044  +  29.0711* 
0.0055  +  29.0721* 
0.0087  +  29.0731* 

4 

5.297  +  0.072i 

0.013    +  29.0761 

2 

5.272  +  0.108i 

0.020    +  29.0801 

1 

5.198  +  0.132i 

0.023    +  29.0941 

TMio 

oo 

7.016 

28.7101 

1000 

6.971  +  0.107i 

0.026    +  28.7211 

250 

6.931  +  0.217i 

0.052    +  28.7311 

100 

6.885  +  0.355i 

0.085    +  28.7431 

64 

6.852  +  0.457i 

0.109    +  28.7531 

40 

6.801  +  0.6101 

0.144    +  28.7681 

32 

6.768  +  0.708i 

0.167    +  28.7781 

25 

6.720  +  0.850i 

0.198    +  28.7931 

16 

6.562  +  1.359i 

0.309    +  28.8501 

12 

6.869  +  2.095i 

0.499    +  28.8251 

10 

7.322  +  2. 3741 

0.605    +  28.7371 

TE,3 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

8.536 

28.2951 
0.0003  +  28.2951* 
0.0007  +  28.2951* 
0.0010  +  28.2951* 
0.0013  +  28.2951* 
0.0016  +  28.2951* 
0.0021  +  28.2951* 
0.0032  +  28.2961* 
0.0050  +  28.2961* 
0.0094  +  28.2951* 

TMu 

00 

10.173 

27.7481 

25 

9.981  +  0.4971 

0.178    +  27.8231 

16 

9.910  +  0.6521 

0.232    +  27.8521 

12 

9.841  +  0.7851 

0.277    +  27.8801 

10 

9.776  +  0.8931 

0.313    +  27.9071 

4 

8.836  +  0.8981 

0.281     +  28.2181 

2 

8.656  +  0.5961 

0.183    +  28.2651 

1 

8.523  +  0.4091 

0.123    +  28.3021 

Approximate  formula. 


1366 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1367 


Table  1(d)— |-inch  Guide  at  Xq  =  5.4  mm  {^oa  =  12.930) 

WITH  e'  =  4  AND  e"  VARIABLE 


Limit  Mode 

e" 

no 

aa  +  ij3o 

TMoi 

1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 
6.4 
4.0 
2.5 
1.0 

2.405 

2.286  +  0.1401 

2.183  +  0.3241 

2.113  +  0.5951 

2.114  +  0.8001 
2.185  +  1.0721 
2.377  +  1.3691 
3.212  +  1.6991 
3.694  +  1.4401 
3.765  +  1.0291 
3.700  +  0.8531 
3.624  +  0.7331 

12.7041 
0.025    +  12.7271 
0.056    +  12.7491 
0.098    +  12.7711 
0.132    +  12.7821 
0.183    +  12.7901 
0.255    +  12.7861 
0.431    +  12.6471 
0.426    +  12.4821 
0.312    +  12.4161 
0.254    +  12.4211 
0.214    +  12.4351 

TMo2 

1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 
6.4 
4.0 
2.5 
1.0 

5.520 

5.468  +  0.0541 
5.416  +  0.1111 
5.356  +  0.1831 
5.317  +  0.2351 
5.266  +  0.3081 
5.206  +  0.4101 
5.073  +  0.7721 
5.095  +  1.137i 
5.486  +  1.4291 
5.818  +  1.3791 
6.041  +  1.1881 

11.6921 
0.025    +  11.7171 
0.051    +  11.7421 
(V083    +  11.7701 
0.106    +  11.7891 
0.137    +  11.8141 
0.180    +  11.8441 
0.328    +  11.9231 
0.485    +  11.9481 
0.664    +  11.8141 
0.689    +  11.6501 
0.624    +  11.5111 

TMo3 

CO 

1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 
6.4 
4.0 
2.5 
1.0 

8.654 

8.620  +  0.0341 
8.587  +  0.0691 
8.550  +  0.1111 
8.525  +  0.1411 
8.494  +  0.1831 
8.459  +  0.2391 
8.393  +  0.4111 
8.386  +  0.5321 
8.426  +  0.6681 
8.515  +  0.7691 
8.676  +  0.8241 

9.6071 
0.030    +    9.6371 
0.061    +    9.6671 
0.098    +    9.7011 
0.124    +    9.7231 
0.160    +    9.7521 
0.207    +    9.7851 
0.350    +    9.8511 
0.452    +    9.8661 
0.571    +    9.8471 
0.669    +    9.7841 
0.741    +    9.6511 

TEu 

00 

1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 
6.4 
4.0 
2.5 
1.0 

1.841 

1.767  +  0.0741 
1.717  +  0.1911 
1.706  +  0.3681 
1.734  +  0.5001 
1.857  +  0.6561 
2.126  +  0.7731 
2.436  +  0.4111 
2.413  +  0.3161 
2.386  +  0.2621 
2.364  +  0.2341 
2.341  +  0.2121 

12.7981 
0.010    +  12.8091 
0.026    +  12.8171 
0.049     +  12.8221 
0.068    +  12.8231 
0.095    +  12.8131 
0.129    +  12.7781 
0.079    +  12.7061 
0.060    +  12.7071 
0.049    +  12.7111 
0.043    +  12.7141 
0.039    +  12.7181 

1368       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  1(d)  —  Continued 


Limit  Mode 

f" 

ria 

aa  +  ij3a 

TMii 

00 
1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 
6.4 
4.0 
2.5 
1.0 

3.832 

3.750  +  0.081i 
3.676  +  0.171i 
3.588  +  0.290i 
3.530  +  0.382i 
3.447  +  0.516i 
3.329  +  0.757i 
3.749  +  1.664i 
4.275  +  1.750i 
4.701  +  1.553i 

4.843  +  1.274i 

4.844  +  1.031i 

12.349i 
0.025    +  12.375i 
0.051    +  12.398i 
0.084    +  12.426i 
0.108    +  12.445i 
0.143    +  12.474i 
0.201    +  12.519i 
0.499    +  12.496i 
0.606    +  12.343i 
0.600    +  12.160i 
0.511    +  12.067i 
0.415    +  12.040i 

TE12 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

5.331 

11.780i 
0.0007  +  11.780i* 
0.0015  +  11.781i* 
0.0024  +  11.782i* 
0.0030  +  11.782i* 
0.0039  +  11.783i* 
0.0051  +  11.784i* 
0.0085  +  11.785i* 
0.0125  +  11.784i* 
0.0146  +  11.781i* 

TMu 

00 
1000 
250 
100 
64 
40 
25 
10 
6.4 
4.0 
2.5 
1.0 

7.016 

6.972  +  0.043i 
6.930  +  0.087i 
6.883  +  0.141i 
6.853  +  0.179i 
6.814  +  0.233i 
6.769  +  0.305i 
6.679  +  0.541i 
6.670  +  0.718i 
6.755  +  0.935i 
6.942  +  l.Oeii 
7.193  +  1.054i 

10.861i 
0.027    +  10.889i 
0.055    +  10.917i 
0.088    +  10.947i 
0.112    +  10.967i 
0.144    +  10.992i 
0.187    +  11.023i 
0.326    +  11.090i 
0.431    +  11.109i 
0.570    +  11.080i 
0.671     +  10.981i 
0.700    +  10.819i 

TEi, 

CO 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

8.536 

9.712i 
0.0002+    9.712i* 
0.0005  +    9.712i* 
0.0008  +    9.712i* 
0.0010  +    9.713i* 
0.0012  +    9.713i* 
0.0016  +    9.713i* 
0.0027  +    9.713i* 
0.0040  +    9.713i* 
0.0048  +    9.712i* 

TM,3 

CO 

10 
6.4 
4.0 

10.173 

9.949  +  0.340i 
9.943  +  0.436i 
9.970  +  0.543i 

7.980i 
0.409    +    8.276i 
0.523    +    8.293i 
0.655    +    8.277i 

Approximate  formula. 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1369 


Table  1(e)  —  |-inch  Guide  at  Xq  =  5.4  mm  (jSoa  =  12.930)  with 


e    =  € 


Limit  Mode 

e'  and  e" 

fia 

aa  +  t/3a 

TMoi 

00 

2.405 

12.704i 

1000 

2.360  +  0.141i 

0.026    +  12.714i 

250 

2.339  +  0.295i 

0.054    +  12.720i 

100 

2.351  +  0.482i 

0.089    +  12.724i 

64 

2.382  +  0.608i 

0.114    +  12.724i 

40 

2.450  +  0.766i 

0.148    +  12.720i 

25 

2.573  +  0.942i 

0.191     +  12.708i 

10 

3.052  +  1.244i 

0.301    +  12.630i 

4 

3.765  +  1.029i 

0.312    +  12.416i 

2 

3.841  +  0.653i 

0.203    +  12.366i 

1 

3.768  +  0.438i 

0.133    +  12.378i 

TMo2 

00 

5.520 

11.692i 

1000 

5.497  +  0.058i 

0.027    +  11.704i 

250 

5.475  +  0.118i 

0.055    +  11.715i 

100 

5.451  +  0.190i 

0.088    +  11.727i 

64 

5.435  +  0.241i 

0.111    +  11.735i 

40 

5.416  +  0.310i 

0.143    +  11.746i 

25 

5.393  +  0.402i 

0.184    +  11.760i 

10 

5.338  +  0.701i 

0.317    +  11.802i 

4 

5.486  +  1.429i 

0.664    +  11.814i 

2 

6.389  +  1.780i 

0.996    +  11.425i 

1 

6.901  +  1.040i 

0.652    +  11.003i 

TMo3 

00 

8.654 

9.607i 

1000 

8.639  +  0.0.37i 

0.033    +    9.621i 

250 

8.624  +  0.074i 

0.067    +    9.635i 

100 

8.607  +  0.118i 

0.105    +    9.650i 

64 

8.596  +  0.148i 

0.132    +    9.661i 

40 

8.581  +  0.189i 

0.168    +    9.675i 

25 

8.563  +  0.241i 

0.213    +    9.694i 

10 

8.512  +  0.393i 

0.344    +    9.747i 

4 

8.426  +  0.668i 

0.571     +    9.847i 

2 

8.320  +  1.094i 

0.910    +    9.999i 

1 

8.812  +  1.915i 

1.721    +    9.806i 

TEii 

oo 

1.841 

12.798i 

1000 

1.810  +  0.072i 

0.010    +  12.803i 

250 

1.807  +  0.161i 

0.023    +  12.804i 

100 

1.833  +  0.265i 

0.038    +  12.802i 

64 

1.870  +  0.330i 

0.048    +  12.799i 

40 

1.939  +  0.401i 

0.061    +  12.790i 

25 

2.047  +  0.459i 

0.074    +  12.776i 

10 

2.295  +  0.414i 

0.075    +  12.732i 

4 

2.386  +  0.262i 

0.049    +  12.711i 

2 

2.389  +  0.186i 

0.035    +  12.709i 

1 

2.369  +  0.129i 

0.024    +  12.712i 

1370       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  1(e)  —  Continued 

Limit  Mode 

e'  and  «" 

fio 

aa  +  ij3a 

TMu 

00 

3.832 

12.349i 

1000 

3.794  +  0.086i 

0.026    +  12.361i 

250 

3.766  +  0.176i 

0.054    +  12.371i 

100 

3.739  +  0.288i 

0.087    +  12.381i 

64 

3.725  +  0.369i 

0.111    +  12.388i 

40 

3.711  +  0.485i 

0.145    +  12.396i 

25 

3.708  +  0.651i 

0.195    +  12.406i 

10 

3.893  +  1.161i 

0.365    +  12.390i 

4 

4.701  +  1.553i 

0.600    +  12.160i 

2 

5.319  +  1.062i 

0.477    +  11.843i 

1 

5.241  +  0.614i 

0.272    +  11.840i 

TE12 

00 

5.331 

11.780i 

1000 

0.0008  +  11.780i* 

250 

0.0016  +  11.780i* 

100 

0.0026  +  11.781i* 

64 

0.0032  +  11.781i* 

40 

0.0041  +  11.781i* 

25 

0.0051  +  11.782i* 

10 

0.0081  +  11.783i* 

4 

0.0125  +  11.784i* 

1 

0.0236  +  11.782i* 

TM12 

00 

7.016 

10.861i 

1000 

6.996  +  0.047i 

0.030    +  10.874i 

250 

6.976  +  0.094i 

0.060    +  10.887i 

100 

6.955  +  0.149i 

0.095    +  10.902i 

64 

6.942  +  0.187i 

0.119    +  lO.Olli 

40 

6.924  +  0.238i 

0.151     +  10.923i 

25 

6.903  +  0.305i 

0.192    +  10.939i 

10 

6.841  +  0.509i 

0.317    +  10.988i 

4 

6.755  +  0.935i 

0.570    +  ll.OSOi 

2 

7.053  +  1.730i 

1.106    +  11.030i 

1 

8.138  +  1.672i 

1.325    +  10.272i 

TE,3 

00 

8.536 

9.712i 

1000 

0.0003  +    9.712i* 

250 

0.0005  +    9. 7121* 

100 

0.0008  +    9.712i* 

64 

0.0010  +    9.712i* 

40 

0.0013  +    9.712i* 

25 

0.0016  +    9.712i* 

10 

0.0025  +    9.713i* 

4 

0.0040  +    9.713i* 

1 

0.0076  +    9. 7131* 

TM13 

00 

10.173 

7. 9801 

4 

9.970  +  0.543i 

0.655    +    8. 2771 

2 

9.863  +  0.826i 

0.963    +    8. 4571 

1 

9.698  +  1.418i 

1.561    +    8. 8081 

Approximate  formula. 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1371 


^1     Table  1(f)— t^ 

-INCH  Guide  at  Xq  =  5.4  mm  %a  =  6.465)  with 
e'  =  4  AND  e"  Variable 

Limit  Mode 

t" 

fia 

aa  +  i/3o 

Moi 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

2.405 

2.287  +  0.141i 
2.228  +  0.244i 
2.197  +  0.324i 
2.170  +  0.439i 
2.169  +  0.594i 
2.355  +  0.943i 
2.740  +  1.040i 
2.961  +  0.878i 

e.ooii 

0.024    +    6.0251* 
0.053    +    6.0491 
0.090    +    6.0741 
0.117    +    6.0901 
0.156    +    6.1071 
0.210    +    6.1231 
0.364    +    6.1051 
0.478    +    5.9661 
0.446    +    5.8301 

rMo2 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

5.520 

5.468  +  0.054i 
5.439  +  0.088i 
5.420  +  0.112i 
5.396  +  0.146i 
5.370  +  0.191i 
5.327  +  0.328i 
5.369  +  0.512i 
5.539  +  0.614i 

3.3651 
0.043    +    3.4081* 
0.086    +    3. 4501 
0.137    +    3.4991 
0.172    +    3.5301 
0.221    +    3.5701 
0.284    +    3.6161 
0.471    +    3.7071 
0.740    +    3.7121 
0.965    +    3.5241 

TEn 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

1.841 

1.772  +  0.069i 
1.744  +  0.129i 
1.731  +  0.176i 
1.726  +  0.244i 
1.744  +  0.334i 
1.925  +  0.493i 
2.121  +  0.425i 
2.152  +  0.319i 

6.1971 
0.009    +    6.2061* 
0.020    +    6.2181 
0.036    +    6.2271 
0.049    +    6.2311 
0.068    +    6.2351 
0.093    +    6.2351 
0.153    +    6.1931 
0.147    +    6.1231 
0.112    +    6.1061 

TMii 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

3.832 

3.751  +  0.082i 
3.710  +  0.134i 
3.683  +  0.173i 
3.650  +  0.227i 
3.615  +  0.303i 
3.581  +  0.546i 
3.763  +  0.810i 
4.038  +  0.816i 

5.2071 
0.028    +    5.2351* 
0.058    +    5.2661 
0.094    +    5.2971 
0.119    +    5.3171 
0.155    +    5.3431 
0.204    +    5.3721 
0.360    +    5.4221 
0.570    +    5.3501 
0.639    +    5.1541 

TE12 

00 

1000 

250 

100 

64 

40 

25 

10 

4 

1 

5.331 

3.6571 
0.0005  +    3.6571* 
0.0009  +    3.6581* 
0.0015  +    3.6581* 
0.0019  +    3.6591* 
0.0024  +    3.6591* 
0.0031  +    3.6591* 
0.0052  +    3.6601* 
0.0079  +    3. 6601* 
0.0097  +    3.6581* 

Approximate  formula. 


29.6 


oca 

0  0.04         0.08         0.12  0.16  0.20         0.24         0.28         0.32  0.36         0.40 


29.4 


29.2 


29.0 


/3a 


28.8 


26,6 


28.4 


2  8.2 


28.0 


1000  TEii 


TMqi 


1000  K") 


1000 


TE 


12 


1000 


TE 


13 
1000 


"^ 


TM„ 


TMc 


TM,2 


TM, 


03 


W~^, 


(b) 

/3oa  =29.554 
f'=100 


0  0.04         0.08         0.12  0.16  0.20         0.24         0.28         0.32  0.36  0.40 

aa 

Fig.  2(a)  and  (b) 
Fig.  2  —  Plots  of  phase  constant  versus  attenuation  constant  for  modes  in 
various  helix  waveguides.  Representative  values  of  «"  are  shown  on  the  curves.   , 

1372 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1373 


0.04        0.08        O.I 


aa 

0.20        0.24        0.28        0.32         0.36        0.40 


11.4 


yOa 


11.0 


10.6 


10.2 


9.8 


9.4 


TM 


12 


TMr 


0.1  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0 

aa 


Fig.  2(c)  and  (d) 


1374       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


13. 


12.6 


12.2 


11.8  J 


11  .4 


caa 

0.1  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0 


/3a 


11.0 


10.6 


10.2 


9.8 


9.4 


6.4 


6.0 


5.6 


5.2 


/3a 


4.8 


4.4 


4.0 


3.6 


3.2 


.TE,2 


01 


TM 


-TM11 


TM02 


0.1  0.2  0.3  0.4 


0.5 

aa 


(f) 

/3oa  =6.465 
f'=4 


0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0 


Fig.  2(e)  and  (f) 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE  1375 

constants  calculated  from  the  approximate  formulas  are  given  to  four 
decimal  places,  i.e.,  usually  two  significant  figures. 

The  contents  of  Table  I  are  displayed  graphically  in  Figs.  2(a)  through 
(f),  which  show  plots  of  (3a  vs  aa  for  all  modes  except  TM13 .  Repre- 
sentative values  of  e  are  indicated  on  the  curves.  Note  that  the  scales 
are  different  for  the  different  guide  sizes,  and  that  the  jSa-scale  is  com- 
pressed in  all  cases.  If  aa  and  jSa  were  plotted  on  the  same  scale,  the 
curves  would  make  an  initial  angle  of  45°  with  the  aa-axis  when  e  = 
constant,  or  22.5°  when  e    —  e". 

Figs.  3(a)  to  (f)  show  the  normalized  attenuation  constants  aa  of 
various  modes  plotted  against  e"  on  a  log-log  scale.  In  Fig.  3(b)  the 
curves  for  all  TM  modes  would  be  similar  to  the  two  shown,  and  in 
Fig.  3(d)  the  TM03  curve  is  like  TM12  .  Although  for  some  modes  the 
attenuation  constant  increases  steadily  as  the  conductivity  decreases 
over  the  range  of  our  calculations,  in  many  cases  the  attenuation  passes 
through  a  maximum  and  then  decreases  as  the  conductivity  is  further 
decreased.  This  phenomenon  will  be  discussed  in  Section  V. 

It  may  be  noticed  that  in  some  instances  the  limit  modes  are  not 
unique.  For  example,  Tables  1(a),  with  e'  =  4,  and  1(c),  with  e'  =  e", 
for  the  large  guide  have  in  common  the  case  e'  =  4,  e"  =  4.  For  this 
case  consider  the  circular  magnetic  mode  corresponding  to  fia  = 
3.905  -1-  0.344t.  If  e'  is  constant  (=4)  while  e"  tends  to  infinity,  this 
mode  approaches  the  TM02  mode  in  a  perfectly  conducting  guide;  but 
if  e'  and  e  tend  to  infinity  while  remaining  equal  to  each  other,  the  same 
mode  approaches  TMoi  in  a  perfectly  conducting  guide.  Presumably  the 
TMoi-limit  mode  in  the  former  case  coincides  with  the  TMo2-limit  mode 
in  the  latter  case ;  but  the  value  of  f la  for  this  mode  is  outside  the  range 
of  our  calculations  at  e'  =  e  =  4.  A  similar  interchange  occurs  between 
the  TMii-limit  and  TMi2-limit  modes  in  the  large  guide,  depending  on 
whether  e'  is  constant  or  e'  tends  to  infinity  with  e".  There  is  no  evidence 
of  any  such  phenomenon  in  the  smaller  guide  of  Tables  1(d)  and  1(e); 
but  the  fact  that  it  can  occur  means  that  the  limit-mode  designations  of 
modes  in  a  lossy  waveguide  are  not  entirely  unambiguous.  The  phen- 
omenon is  not  due  to  the  presence  of  the  helix,  since  a  helix  of  zero  pitch 
has  no  effect  on  circular  magnetic  modes. 

Finally  it  is  of  interest  to  compare  the  propagation  constants  given 
by  the  approximate  formula  with  those  obtained  by  numerical  solution 
of  the  characteristic  equation.  A  reasonably  typical  case  is  provided  by 
the  TMo2-limit  mode  in  a  2-inch  guide  at  Xo  =  5.4  mm  with  e  =  4,  as 
in  Table  1(a).  Exact  and  approximate  results  for  ^a  vs  aa  and  aa  vs  e" 
are  plotted  in  Fig.  4.  As  the  conductivity  decreases,  the  attenuation  con- 


2.0 

I  .0 
0.5 

0.2 
0.10 
0.05 

aa  0.02 

0.010 
0.005 

0:002 
o.ooto 

0.0005 

0.0002 
1.0 

0.5 

0.2 

0.  I  0 
0.05 


(a) 

-/3oa  =  29.564 
f'=4 

/" 

J 

/ 

/ 

TMoy 

^"^^^ 

TMo3 



^ 

■V 

\ 

■^ 

K.^J^^ 

^ 

N^ 

TMo2 

^ 

\ 

■ T^ 

^ 

^ir^ 

y^ 

/- 

^ 

^,3 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

y^ 

aa 


0.02 
0.010 
0.005 

0.002 
0.0010 
0.0005 

0.0002 

2 

1.0 
0.5 

0.2 
0.10 
0.05 


(C) 

r^ 

V3oa  =  29.55  4 

TMo2 

^ 

k 

vTMoj 

^ 

^ 

^ 

s 

k 

^ 

9^ 

V 

\J\rMi,  ^ 

^ 

X^ 

^ 

1                              _^_^ 

/" 

" 

\ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

'   V 

< 

^ 

'TE,2 

^ 

^ 

,^ 

^ 

TE,3 

^ 

^ 

^ 

«a 


0.02 
0.010 
0.005 

0.002 
0-0010 
0.0005 

0.0002 


/\ 

(e) 

f'=f" 

^J^^ 

.yi 

^ 

\ 

^ 

X 

^^ 

^ 

r^            J 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

■^ 

> 

y 

^ 

-> 

^.^■^^ 

E,2 

y^ 

^ 

<X 

^ 

y' 

^ 

^3 

^ 

^ 

y^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

--' 

(b) 

-/3oa  =29.554 
f'=  100 

TM„ 

.^ 

^ 

^ 

" 

1 

TMq, 

^ 

>^ 



TE„ 

/ 

TE,2 

^ 

/ 

TE,3 

y 

^ 

(d) 

TMo2^  TM|2 

/3oa    =12.930 
f'=  4 

.^'^ 

^ 

K.        TK 

rMoi_ 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

y 

N 

^ 

y 

TE^" 

~ 

/^ 

^ 

-y* 

TE,2 

^ 

^ 

X 

^^ 

^ 

,^ 

TE,3 

^ 

,^ 

^ 

y 

^ 

^ 

y^ 

y 

^ 

(f) 

-/3oa   =  6.465 
f'=  4 

TMo2 

.<< 

TMll 

y^ 

^ 

'y- 

TMoi 

,^ 

y 

t>^ 

—- 

j:eh_ 

. 

'^^ 

\y 

y 

^ 

^ 

> 

y 

y 

^y 

y 

^ 

^ 

-TEiT 

-X' 

y 

y 

y^ 

1000  200    100     50       20      10       5  2        1   1000  200    100     50       20      10       5  2        1 

e"  e" 

Fig.  3  —  Attenuation  constant  as  a  function  of  jacket  conductivity  for  modes 
in  various  helix  waveguides. 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1377 


29.32 


29.28 


29.24 


29.20 


/3a 


29.  16 


29.1  2 


29.08 


29.04 


29.00 


It 

k 

N 

\ 

APPROXIMATE 

\ 

■ 

) 

.' 

,-'-' 

^^^ 

.  —  - O  — 
10 

^-N. 

,oJ 

/ 

y 

\ 

N 
\ 

/ 

Y 

0 

\ 

\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 

100^ 

•noc 

0 

(a) 

l< 

0  0.04       0.08        0.12         0.16        0.20       0.24       0.28        0.32       0.36       0.40       0.44 


aa 


0.5 
0.4 


0.2 

0.10 
0.08 

0.06 
0.04 

0.02 


- 

EXACT 

APPROXIMATE 

,.'-' 

^-' 

--'• 

,--- 

* 

,.-"' 

x' 

- 

<< 

^ 

> 

Ss,^^ 

- 

X<^ 

- 

^ 

f"' 

"" 

"--. 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

(b) 

I 

1 

1 

1 

1 

\ 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1000     600  400  200  100        60      40  20  10   8      6        4  2  1 

e" 

Fig.  4  —  Comparison  of  exact  and  approximate  formula.s  for  the  propagation 
constant  of  a  typical  mode  (TM02-  limit  in  a  guide  with/3oa  =  29.554  and  «'  =  4). 


staiit  first  becomes  larger,  in  all  cases,  than  predicted  by  the  approximate 
formula.  For  still  lower  conductivities  the  attenuation  constant  may  pass 
through  a  maximum,  as  in  the  present  example,  and  decrease  again.  The 
existence  of  a  maximum  in  the  attenuation  vs  conductivity  curve  is  not 
indicated  by  the  approximate  formula. 


1378       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOUKNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


V.    DISCUSSION   OF   RESULTS 


«ai 


The  dimensioiiless  results  of  Section  IV  may  easily  be  scaled  to  any  >.  \\ 
desired  operating  wavelength,  and  the  attenuation  constants  and  guides 
wavelengths  expressed  in  conventional  units.  If  Xo  is  the  free-space  wave- 
length in  centimeters,  then  the  guide  diameter  d  in  inches,  the  attenua- 
tion constant  a  in  db/meter,  and  the  guide  wavelength  X^  in  centimeters 
are  given  by  the  following  formulas: 

din  =  0.12532  (M(Xo)cn. 


«db/m    = 


vAgjcm    — 


5457.5  (aa) 

(|8oa)(Xo)cm 

(i8oa)(Xo)cm 


,< 


ta 


Table  II  lists  the  guide  diameters  and  the  conversion  factors  for  a  and 
Xg  for  the  three  values  of  /Soa  used  in  Section  IV,  at  frequencies  corre- 
sponding to  free-space  wavelengths  of  3.33  and  0.54  cm.  The  table  also 
lists  the  number  of  propagating  modes  in  a  perfectly  conducting  guide 
as  a  function  of  jSoa  (different  polarizations  are  not  counted  separately). 

When  helix  waveguide  is  used  to  reduce  mode  conversions,  an  im- 
portant parameter  is  the  ratio  of  the  attenuation  constant  of  any  given 
unwanted  mode  to  the  attenuation  constant  of  the  TEoi  mode.  The 
theoretical  attenuation  constants  of  the  TEoi  mode  at  Xo  =  5.4  mm  in 
copper  guides  of  various  sizes  are  listed  below: 


Diameter 

aa 

adb/m                    ^! 

2" 

2.77  X  10"' 

9.47  X  10"' 

nti 

8 

1.50  X  10"' 

1.17  X  10"'            i 

7   // 
16 

7.11  X  10"' 

1.11  X  10"'         : 

1l 

Table  II  —  Conversion  Factors  for  Attenuation  Constants  and 
Guide  Wavelengths  in  Various  Waveguides  \ 


Propa- 
gating 
modes 

Xo  =  3.33  cm 

Xo  =  0.54  cm 

Poa 

Diameter 

(inches) 

a  db/meter 

\g  cm 

Diameter 
(inches) 

a  db/meter 

\g  cm 

29.554 

12.930 

6.465 

227 

44 
12 

12.33 
5.40 
2.70 

55.5  aa 
127      aa 
253      aa 

98.41/^a 
43.06/^a 
21.53//3a 

2.000 
0.875 
0.4375 

342  aa 

782  aa 

1563  aa 

15.959/;8a 
6.982//3a 
3.491//3a 

HELIX   WAVEGUIDE  1379 

Referring  to  the  values  of  aa  listed  in  Table  I,  we  see  that  the  un- 
Iwanted  mode  attenuations  can  be  made  to  exceed  the  TEoi  attenuation 
[by  factors  of  from  several  hundred  to  several  hundred  thousand  in  the 
[large  helix  guide.  The  attenuation  ratios  are  somewhat  smaller  in  the 
[smaller  guide  sizes. 

The  attenuation  versus  conductivity  plots  of  Fig.  3  show  that  for 
I  many  of  the  modes  there  is  a  value  of  jacket  conductivity,  depending  on 
■the  mode,  the  value  of  ;Soa,  and  the  jacket  permittivity,  which  maximizes 
the  attenuation  constant.  Since  one  is  accustomed  to  think  of  the  at- 
tenuation constant  of  a  waveguide  as  an  increasing  function  of  frequency 
for  all  sufficiently  high  frec^uencies  (except  for  circular  electric  waves), 
or  as  an  increasing  function  of  wall  resistance,  it  is  worth  while  to  see 
why  one  should  really  expect  the  attenuation  constant  to  pass  through 
a  maximum  as  the  frequency  is  increased  indefinitely  in  an  ordinary 
metallic  guide,  or  as  the  wall  resistance  is  increased  at  a  fixed  frequency. 
The  argument  runs  as  follows: 

Guided  waves  inside  a  cylindrical  pipe  may  be  expressed  as  bundles  of 
plane  waves  repeatedly  reflected  from  the  cylindrical  boundary."  The 
angle  which  the  wave  normals  make  with  the  guide  axis  decreases  as  the 
frequency  increases  farther  above  cutoff;  and  the  complementary  angle, 
which  is  the  angle  of  incidence  of  the  waves  upon  the  boundary,  ap- 
proaches 90°.  If  the  walls  are  imperfectly  conducting,  the  guided  wave  is 
attenuated  because  the  reflection  coefficient  of  the  component  waves  at 
the  boundary  is  less  than  unity.  The  theory  of  reflection  at  an  imper- 
fectly conducting  surface  shows  that  the  reflection  coefficient  of  a  plane 
wave  polarized  with  its  electric  vector  in  the  plane  of  incidence  first 
decreases  with  increasing  angle  of  incidence,  then  passes  through  a  deep 
minimum,  and  finally  increases  to  unity  at  strictly  grazing  incidence. ^^ 
For  a  metallic  reflector,  the  angle  of  incidence  corresponding  to  minimum 
reflection  is  very  near  90°.  Inasmuch  as  all  modes  in  circular  guide  except 
for  the  circular  electric  family  have  a  component  of  E  in  the  plane  of 
incidence  (the  plane  6  =  constant),  one  would  expect  the  attenuation 
constant  of  each  mode  to  pass  through  a  maximum  at  a  sufficiently  high 
frequency.  For  example,  the  TMoi  mode  in  a  2-inch  copper  guide  should 
have  maximum  attenuation  at  a  free-space  wavelength  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  0.1  mm  (100  microns),  assuming  the  dc  value  for  the  conductivity 
of  copper.  To  find  the  actual  maximum,  of  course,  would  require  the 
solution  of  a  transcendental  equation  as  in  Section  IV. 

The  circular  electric  waves  all  have  E  normal  to  the  plane  of  incidence. 

"  Reference  9,  pp.  411-412. 
12  Reference  7,  pp.  507-509. 


1380       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

For  this  polarization  the  reflection  coefficient  increases  steadily  from  its 
value  at  normal  incidence  to  unity  at  grazing  incidence.  Thus  one  has  an 
optical  interpretation  of  the  anomalous  attenuation-frequency  behavior 
of  circular  electric  waves. 

If  instead  of  varying  the  frequency  one  imagines  the  wall  resistance 
varied  at  a  fixed  frequency,  he  can  easily  convince  himself  that  there 
usually  exists  a  finite  value  of  resistance  which  maximizes  the  attenua- 
tion constant  of  a  given  mode.  An  idealized  illustrative  example  has  been 
worked  out  by  Schelkunoff.  He  considers  the  propagation  of  transverse 
magnetic  waves  between  parallel  resistance  sheets,  and  shows  that  if  the 
sheets  are  far  enough  apart  the  attenuation  constant  increases  from  zero 
to  a  maximum  and  then  falls  again  to  zero,  as  the  wall  resistance  is  made 
to  increase  from  zero  to  infinity.  It  may  be  instructive  to  consider  that 
maximum  power  is  dissipated  in  the  lossy  walls  when  their  impedance  is 
matched  as  well  as  possible  to  the  wave  impedance,  looking  normal  to 
the  walls,  of  the  fields  inside  the  guide. 

In  conclusion  we  mention  a  couple  of  theoretical  questions  which  are 
suggested  by  the  numerical  results  of  Section  IV. 

(1)  Limit  modes.  It  has  been  seen  that  the  limit  which  a  given  lossy 
mode  approaches  as  the  jacket  conductivity  becomes  infinite  may  not 
be  unique.  Can  rules  be  given  for  determining  limit  modes  when  the 
manner  in  which  |  e'  —  ?'e    |  approaches  infinity  is  specified? 

(2)  Behavior  of  modes  as  a  — ^  0.  It  is  known^^  that  the  number  of  true 
guided  waves  (i.e.,  exponentially  propagating  waves  whose  fields  vanish 
at  large  radial  distances  from  the  guide  axis)  possible  in  a  cylindrical 
waveguide  is  finite  if  the  conductivity  of  the  exterior  medium  is  finite. 
The  number  is  enormously  large  if  the  exterior  medium  is  a  metal;  but 
the  modes  presumably  disappear  one  by  one  as  the  conductivity  is  de- 
creased. If  the  conductivity  of  the  exterior  medium  is  low  enough  and  if 
its  permittivity  is  not  less  than  the  permittivity  of  the  interior  medium, 
no  true  guided  waves  can  exist.  At  what  values  of  conductivity  do  the 
first  few  modes  appear  in  a  guide  of  given  size,  and  how  do  their  propa- 
gation constants  behave  at  very  low  conductivities? 

The  complete  theory  of  lossy -wall  waveguide  would  appear  to  present 
quite  a  challenge  to  the  applied  mathematician.  Fortunately  the  en- 
gineering usefulness  of  helix  waveguide  does  not  depend  upon  getting 
immediate  answers  to  such  difficult  analytical  questions. 


13  Reference  9,  pp.  484-489. 

"  G.  M.  Roe,  The  Theory  of  Acoustic  and  Electromagnetic  Wave  Guides  and 
Cavity  Resonators,  Ph.D.  thesis,  U.  of  Minn.,  1947,  Section  2. 


HELIX    WAVEGUIDE  1381 

APPENDIX 
APPROXIMATE    SOLUTION    OF   THE    CHARACTERISTIC    EQUATION 

The  characteristic  equation  (6)  of  the  heUx  guide  may  be  written  in 
the  dimensionless  form 


[i^a  tan  ^  -  -^  ^^.^  -  (fta)  -j-^^ 


fia  tan  ^  -  -^  ]    J^,,^    .  —  (M' 

(Al) 

If  I  e'  —  «"  I  is  sufficiently  large,  the  right  side  of  the  equation  is  large 
and  either  J„(fia)  or  Jn'itio,)  is  near  zero.  Let  p  denote  a  particular  root 
of  Jn  or  Jn',  then  to  zero  order, 

Tia  =  p 

ha  =  finma  =  i8oa(l  -  v')'''  (A2) 

Ua  =  iSoaie'  -  U"  -  1  -  vy 

where 

V  =  p/^oa 

Henceforth  assume  that 

I  r2a  1  »  I  (4n'  -  l)/8  I  (A3a) 

and 

I  r2a  I  »  I  n  I  (A3b) 

It  is  convenient  to  postulate  both  inequalities,  even  though  the  first  is 
more  restrictive  than  the  second  unless  \  n  \  =  lor|nl  =2. 

If  (A3a)  is  satisfied,  the  Hankel  functions  may  be  replaced  by  the 
first  terms  of  their  asymptotic  expressions,  and 

Eq.  (Al)  becomes 

A      ,        ,         7ihaY  Jniha)        /«    n2  ^n'(fia) 


ijia 


2 


Ua  tan  ^p  —  —-  j   +  (M'U  -  'i^") 


1382       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURN.IL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

It  follows  from  (A3b),  using  the  zero-order  approximations  (A2),  that 

1  nha/r2a  \  «  \  I3,a{e'  -  ie'f'^  \ 
so  the  characteristic  equation  finally  takes  the  approximate  form 


m 


(A4) 


f2a 


[(fsa  tan  4^)'  +  (MV  -  ie')] 


Now  let 


f itt  =  p  +  .r,         I  a;  I  <<C  1 


h\ 


where  a:  is  a  small  complex  number.  The  normalized  propagation  con- 
stant becomes,  to  first  order, 

iha  =  [(fia)'  -  (MT 

=    2M(1    -    vy"   -  ivx{l    -   vT'" 

=  aa  +  i(l3nma  +  A^a) 

where  /3„„i  is  the  phase  constant  of  the  mode  in  a  perfectly  conducting 
guide,  and  the  perturbation  terms  are 


aa  +  iA^a  =  — 


ivx 


(1     -    v2)l/2 


(A5) 


For  the  TM„„i  mode,  let  p  be  the  //;*''  root  of  J„  ;  then  from  Tajdor's 
series,  to  first  order  in  x. 


Jni^ia)    =    J  nip    +    .r)     =    .Vjn(p) 


(A6) 


Substituting  (A6)  into  (A4),  neglecting  the  first  term  on  the  left  side  of 
(A4),  and  replacing  everything  on  the  right  side  by  its  zero  approxima- 
tion according  to  (A2),  one  obtains 

(/3oa)^       ipMU  —  ■2"e"  -  1  +  i'^)  tan"  \p  +  (e    —  ie')] 


X 


{e'  -  ie"  -  1  +  v'~y 


12 


or 


i{^  +  iyi) 

X   = 

v\\  +|l  -    ]  ~  ^Itan^V- 
L           I           e    -  le    ]                J 

(A7) 


HELIX   WAVEGUIDE 


1383 


where 


^  +  iv  = 


1  - 


1  - 


2    -] 


ie" 


1/2 


It  follows  from  (A5)  and  (A7)  that  for  TM  modes, 


a  +  iA^  = 


a(l  -  u') 


2  \  1  2 


1+1 


___|  tan  V_ 


where  ^  +  irj  is  given  by  (A8). 

For  the  TE„„  mode,  let  p  be  the  m*^  root  of  J,/ ;  then 

/n'(fia)     =    Jn'iV   +   X)    =    ^""^    ~/^''  Mp) 


y 


Equation  (A4)  yields 


X 


ip  V 


tan  rp 


nil  -  v') 
pv 


2\l/2-|2 


(^  +  irj) 


(p^  —  n^) 


1+  i-e^'  r^"'* 


and,  using  (A5),  we  have  for  TE  modes, 

a  +  2A/3 


V 


tan  \p  — 


n(l  -  /) 


2\l/2-12 


(^    +    t^) 


(p-  -  71^)  a(l  -  1^2)1/2 


1+1 


7>^tan   lA 


t€ 


where  ^  +  z??  is  given  by  (AS). 

In  view  of  (A5),  the  condition  that  |  a;  |  <3C  1  is  equivalent  to 

^^  I  aa  +  lA^a  \  «  1 


(AS) 


(A9) 


(AlO) 


(All) 


In  all  the  numerical  cases  treated  in  the  present  paper,  the  approximate 
formulas  agree  well  with  the  exact  ones  provided  that  the  left  side  of 
(All)  is  not  greater  than  about  0.1. 

A  condition  Avhich  is  usually  satisfied  in  practice,  although  not  strictly 
a  consequence  of  the  assumptions  (A3)  or  (All),  is 


1 


«1 


^e 


1384       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956  | 

This  final  approximation  leads  to  the  simple  equations  (7a)  and  (7b)  of 
Section  III,  namely: 

TMnm  modes 


a  +  iA/3 


a(l  -  vY'''[l  +  tanV] 
TE„;„  modes 

.     . .  ^  ^     (^  +  iy)  v'V        [tan  yp  -  n{l  -  vf^/yvf 

"  ^  ^^       a(l  -  v'^yi''  {f-  -  ^2)  [1  +  tanV] 

where 


i 


Wafer-Type  Millimeter  Wave  Rectifiers* 

By  W.  M.  SHARPLESS 

(Manuscript  received  June  18,  1956) 

A  wafer-type  silicon  point-contact  rectifier  and  holder  designed  pri- 
marily for  use  as  the  first  detector  in  millimeter  wave  receivers  are  described. 
Measurements  made  on  a  pilot  production  group  of  one  hundred  wafer 
rectifier  units  yielded  the  following  average  performance  data  at  a  wave- 
length of  5.4  millimeters:  conversion  loss,  7£  dh;  noise  ratio,  2.2;  interme- 
diate frequency  output  impedance  34O  ohms.  Methods  of  estimating  the 
values  of  the  circuit  parameters  of  a  point-contact  rectifier  are  given  in  an 
Appendix. 

INTRODUCTION 

Point-contact  rectifiers  for  millimeter  waves  have  been  in  experi- 
mental use  for  several  years.  These  units,  for  the  most  part,  have  been 
coaxial  cartridges  which  were  inserted  in  a  fixed  position,  usually  cen- 
tered, in  the  waveguide.  Impedance  matching  was  accomplished  by 
means  of  a  series  of  matching  screws  preceding  the  rectifier  and  an  adjust- 
able waveguide  piston  following  the  rectifier.  Tuning  screws  are  gener- 
ally undesirable  l^ecause  of  the  possibility  of  losses,  narrow  band  widths 
and  instability. 

It  is  the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  describe  a  new  type  millimeter-wave 
rectifier  and  holder  which  were  designed  to  eliminate  the  need  for  tuning 
screws  and  to  provide  a  readily  interchangeable  rectifier  of  the  flat  wafer 
type.  This  wafer  contains  a  short  section  of  waveguide  across  which  the 
point  contact  rectifier  is  mounted.  The  necessary  low  frequency  output 
terminal  (and  the  rectified  current  connection)  together  with  the  high- 
frequency  bypass  capacitor,  are  also  contained  within  each  wafer.  The 
basic  idea  of  the  wafer-type  rectifier  is  that  the  unit  can  be  inserted  in  its 
holder  and  moved  transversely  to  the  waveguide  to  obtain  a  resistive 
match  to  the  guide ;  the  reactive  component  of  the  rectifier  impedance  is 
then  tuned  out  by  an  adjustable  waveguide  plunger  behind  the  rectifier. 

*  This  work  was  supported  in  part  by  Contract  Nonr-687(00)  with  the  Office 
of  Naval  Research,  Department  of  the  Navy. 

1385 


1386       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

The  wafer  unit  and  holder  were  developed  primarily  for  use  as  the 
first  converter  in  double  detection  receivers  operating  in  the  4-  to  7-mil- 
limeter wavelength  range.  In  order  to  check  the  practicability  of  the 
design  and  to  supply  rectifiers  for  laboratory  use,  a  pilot  production 
group  of  one  hundred  units  was  processed  and  measured.  Performance 
data  obtained  with  this  group  are  presented.  A  balanced  converter  using 
wafer  rectifiers  is  also  described. 

Methods  of  estimating  the  values  of  the  various  circuit  parameters  of  a 
point-contact  rectifier  are  outlined  in  an  appendix.  These  calculations 
proved  useful  in  the  design  of  the  wafer  unit  and  in  predicting  the  broad- 
band performance  of  the  converter. 

DESCRIPTION    OF   WAFER   UNIT   AND    HOLDER 

Fig.  1  is  a  drawing  of  the  wafer  type  rectifier.  The  unit  is  made  from 
stock  steel  iV-inch  thick  and  is  gold  plated  after  the  milling,  drilling  and 
soldering  operations  are  completed.  To  allow  for  the  transverse  impe- 
dance matching  adjustment,  the  section  of  waveguide  contained  in  the 
wafer  is  made  wider  than  the  RG98U  input  guide  to  the  holder.  By 
making  the  wafer  thin  {-^  inch),  the  short  sections  of  unused  guide  on 
either  side  will  remain  "cut-off"  over  the  operating  range  of  the  recti- 
fiers. The  silicon  end  of  the  rectifier  consists  of  a  copper  pin  on  which  the 
silicon  is  press  mounted,  the  assembly  held  in  place  with  Araldite  ce- 
ment which  also  serves  as  the  insulating  material  for  a  quarter-wave- 
length long  high  frequency  bypass  capacitor.  The  pin  serving  as  the  inter- 
mediate frequency  and  direct  current  output  lead  is  also  cemented  in 
place  with  Araldite  cement.  A  soft  solder  connection  is  made  between  this 
pin  and  the  pin  holding  the  silicon  wafer.  A  nickel  pin  with  a  conical  end 
on  which  a  pointed  tungsten  contact  spring  is  welded  is  pressed  into 
place  from  the  opposite  side  of  the  guide  at  the  time  of  final  assembly. 


DC  AND  IF 
OUTPUT 


0.031  "x  0.234^ 
WAVEGUIDE 


0.063"  "BRIGHT    GOLD" 
STEEL  WAFER 


BORON- doped/ 
SILICON 


-CONTACT  SPRING 

Fig.  1  —  Millimeter-wave  wafer  unit. 


WAFER   TYPE   MILLIMETER   WAVE   RECTIFIERS 


1387 


?^^^^^^^^ 


"ARALDITE" 

BONDING 

RESIN 


WELD 


0.014"  SILICON 

SQUARES 
0.0065"  THICK 


0.0009"  DIA 
TUNGSTEN 
WIRE 


WAVEGUIDE 


Fig.  2  —  Millimeter-wave  point-contact  assembly. 


The  region  of  the  wafer  unit  containing  the  silicon  and  point  contact  is 
shown  in  Fig.  2.  The  methods  used  in  preparing  the  silicon  wafer  and 
the  spring  contact  point  are  similar  in  many  respects  to  the  standard 
techniques  used  in  the  manufacture  of  rectifiers  for  longer  wavelengths. 
Some  modifications  and  refinements  in  technique  are  called  for  by  a 
decrease  in  size  and  the  increased  frequency  of  operation. 

A  single-crystal  ingot,  grown  from  high  purity  DuPont  silicon  doped 
with  0.02  per  cent  boron,  furnishes  the  material  for  the  silicon  squares 
used  in  the  wafer  unit.  Slices  cut  from  the  ingot  are  polished  and  heat 
treated.  Gold  is  evaporated  on  the  back  surface  and  the  slices  are  diced 
into  squares  approximately  0.014-inch  square  and  0.0065-inch  thick. 
These  squares  are  pressed  into  indentations  formed  in  the  ends  of  the 
0.030-inch  copper  pins  which  have  previously  been  tin-plated.  The  rods 
are  then  cemented  in  place  in  the  wafer.  The  spring  contact  points  are 
made  of  pure  tungsten  wire  that  has  been  sized  to  0.9  mil  in  diameter  by 
an  electrolytic  etching  process.  A  short  length  of  this  wire  is  spot  welded 
on  the  conical  end  of  the  0.031 -inch  nickel  rod.  The  wire  is  then  bent  into 


1388       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Fig.  3  — ■  Micro-photograph  showing  successive  stages  in  the  formation  of  the 
contact  spring.  The  posts  are  3*0  inch  in  diameter. 


(a) 


(b) 


Fig.  4  —  Cathode-raj^  oscilloscope  display  of  wafer  unit  static  characteristic: 
(a)  before  and  (b)  after  tapping. 


the  "S"  configuration  in  a  forming  jig.  By  an  electrolytic  process  the 
spring  is  then  cut  to  the  proper  length  and  pointed.  The  niicro-photo- 
graphs  in  Fig.  3  show  successive  stages  in  the  formation  of  the  contact 
spring. 

In  the  final  assembly  of  the  unit  the  nickel  rod  with  the  contact  spring 
is  pressed  into  place  until  contact  is  made  with  the  silicon.  It  is  then 
advanced  a  half  mil  to  obtain  the  proper  contact  pressure.  The  voltage- 
current  characteristics  as  viewed  at  60  cycles  on  a  cathode-ray  oscillo- 
scope will  then  appear  as  shown  in  Fig.  4(a).  The  unit  is  "tapped"  into 
final  adjustment.  This  is  done  by  clamping  the  unit  in  a  holder  and 
rapping  it  sharply  on  the  top  of  a  hard  wood  bench.  This  procedure  re- 
quires experience  as  excessive  "tapping"  will  impair  the  performance 
of  the  unit.  Usually  one  vigorous  "tap"  is  sufficient  to  produce  the 
desired   effect  and  the  voltage-current   characteristic  will  appear  as 


WAFER   TYPE    MILLIMETER   WAVE    RECTIFIERS 


1389 


shown  in  Fig.  4(b).  The  static  characteristic  of  a  typical  unit  is  shown  in 
Fig.  5. 

The  conversion  loss  of  each  unit  is  measured  before  the  end  of  the 
nickel  rod  carrying  the  contact  point  is  cut  off  flush  with  the  wafer.  In 
the  event  that  this  initial  measurement  shows  that  the  conversion  loss 
exceeds  an  arbitrarily  chosen  upper  limit  (8.5  db),  it  is  possible  at  this 
stage  to  withdraw  the  point  and  replace  it  with  a  new  one.  This  pro- 
cedure, w^hich  was  necessary  on  only  a  few  of  the  units  processed,  always 
resulted  in  an  acceptable  unit.  The  final  operation  is  to  cut  off  the  pro- 
truding end  of  the  nickel  rod  flush  with  the  wafer. 

A  holder  designed  to  use  the  wafer  units  is  shown  in  Figs.  6  and  7.  At 
the  input  end  of  the  converter  block  is  a  short  waveguide  taper  section 
to  match  from  standard  RG98U  waveguide  to  the  ^-inch  high  wave- 
guide used  in  the  wafer  unit.  As  the  wafer  unit  is  moved  in  and  out  to 
match  the  conductance  of  the  crystal  to  the  waveguide,  the  output  pin 
of  the  wafer  unit  slides  in  a  chuck  on  the  inner  conductor  of  the  coaxial 


6.0 

5.5 

5.0 

4.5 

(O  4.0 
111 
a: 
ai 
Q-  3.5 

< 

J  3.0 

?2.5 


I  2.0 

cr 

^   1.5 


1.0 


0.5 


-0.5 


•0.4 


-0.2 


0  0.2 

VOLTS 


0.4 


0.6 


Fig.  5  — •  Static  characteristic  of  typical  millimeter-wave  wafer  unit. 


1390       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

output  jack.  The  unit  may  be  clamped  in  position  after  matching  adjust- 
ments are  made  by  tightening  the  knurled  thumb  screw  which  pushes  a 
cylindrical  slug  containing  an  adjustable  piston  against  the  wafer  unit. 
The  piston  is  a  short  septum  which  slides  in  shallow  grooves  in  the  top 
and  bottom  of  the  ya-inch  high  waveguide,  thus  dividing  the  waveguide 
into  two  guides  which  are  beyond  cut-off.  This  septum  is  made  of  two 
pieces  of  thin  beryllium  copper  bowed  in  opposite  directions  so  that  good 
contact  is  made  to  the  sides  of  the  grooves  in  the  top  and  bottom  of  the 
waveguide.  Since  the  piston  with  its  connecting  rod  is  very  light  in  weight 
and  is  held  firmly  in  place  by  the  spring  action  of  the  bowed  septum,  no 
additional  locking  mechanism  need  be  provided.  Since  the  rectifier  is 
essentially  broadband  by  design,  the  adjustment  of  the  piston  is  not 
critical  and  is  readily  made  by  hand.  The  piston  rod  is  protected  by  a 
cap  which  is  snapped  in  place  over  the  thumb  screw  when  all  tuning 
adjustments  are  completed. 


B 


n 


L, 


3 


"0    or 


2 

^ 

- 

1 

£ 

1^^:: — l| 

J 


SECTION    B-B 


SECTION    A -A 

Fig.  6  —  Assembly  drawing  of  millimeter-wave  converter. 


WAFER   TYPE    MILLIMETER    WAVE    RECTIFIERS 


1391 


'"  ^^H****-^ 


\ 


\ 


Fig.  7  —  Explosed  view  of  millimeter-wave  converter. 

With  the  converter  fixed-tuned  at  5.4  millimeters,  a  shift  in  wave- 
length to  6.3  millimeters  (17  per  cent  change)  produces  a  mismatch  loss 
of  from  1.6  to  4.0  db  depending  on  the  rectifier  used. 


PERFORMANCE   DATA    FOR   WAFER-TYPE   RECTIFIER   UNIT 

A  pilot  group  of  one  hundred  wafer  units  was  processed  and  measured. 
Figs.  8,  9  and  10  are  bar  graphs  of  the  distribution  of  the  conversion  loss 
L,  and  noise  ratio  A^r*,  and  the  60  megacycle  intermediate  frequency 
output  impedance  Zip  ,   for  the  hundred  rectifiers  measured  in  the 

*  Nu  is  the  ratio  of  the  noise  power  available  from  the  rectifier  to  the  noise 
power  available  from  an  equivalent  resistor  at  room  temperature. 


1392       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

mixer  of  Fig.  7  at  a  wavelength  of  5.4  millimeters.  In  order  that  the 
measurements  might  be  more  readily  compared  with  those  made  on 
commercially  available  rectifiers  used  at  longer  wavelengths,  the  avail- 
able beating  oscillator  power  was  maintained  at  a  level  of  one  milliwatt 
for  all  measurements.*  Further,  in  the  case  of  the  conversion  loss,  a 

35 


30 


25 
20 

15 
10 


6.2 


T 

^ 

'""  !1 

^^S"' 

1 

6.6  7.0  7.4  7.8  8.2 

CONVERSION    LOSS  IN    DECIBELS 


8.6 


Fig.  8  —  Conversion  loss  (L)  of  100  wafer  units  at  a  wavelength  of  5.4  railli- 
meters  with  one-milliwatt  beating  oscillator  drive  (average  7.2  db). 


50 
45 
40 
35 


(f) 


Z  30 

D 


"25 

LU 

2  20 

Z 
15 


to 


' 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1.2  1.6  2.0  2.4  2.8  3.2 

NOISE    RATIO    Nr  times 


3.6 


4.0 


Fig.  9  —  Noise  Ratio  (jVr)  for  100  wafer  units  at  a  wavelength  of  5.4  milli- 
meters with  a  one-milliwatt  beating  oscillator  drive  (average  2.21  times). 

*  Power  levels  were  determined  by  the  use  of  a  calorimeter.  See,  A  Calorimeter 
for  Power  Measurements  at  Millimeter  Wavelengths,  I.  R.  E.  Trans.,  MTT-2, 
pp.  45-47,  Sept.,  1954. 


WAFER   TYPE    MILLIMETER   WAVE    RECTIFIERS 


1393 


40 
35 

12  30 

2 
3 

u.  25 
O 

N 

5""      ■ 

s, 

1 

1" 

£20 
m 

5 

10 

■ 

J. 

5 

^^ 

""vwpp 

0 

150  200  250  300  350  400  450  500 

60-MC   INTERMEDIATE  FREQUENCY   IMPEDANCE,  Z|p, IN  OHMS 

Fig.  10  —  Sixty-megacj'cle  intermediate-frequency  output  impedance  (Zif) 
for  100  wafer  units  with  one  milliwatt  beating  oscillator  drive  (average  338  ohms) 

limit  of  8.5  db  was  arbitrarily  adopted.  This  required  the  readjustment 
of  eleven  units,  with  a  new  point  inserted  in  each  case.  No  units  were 
rejected  because  of  high  noise  and  none  of  the  hundred  units  processed 
was  lost. 

From  the  bar  graphs  it  may  be  seen  that  the  wafer  units  have  the 
average  characteristics  shown  in  the  accompanying  table  at  a  wave- 
length of  5.4  millimeters.* 

Conversion  Loss  L 7 . 2  db 

(5.3  times) 

Noise  Ratio  A^r 2.2  times 

IF  Impedance  (60  mc)  Zj-p 338  ohms 

Knowing  the  noise  figure,  Nif  ,  of  the  IF  amplifier  intended  for  use 
with  the  rectifiers,  the  overall  receiver  noise  figure,  A^rec  >  may  be  cal- 
culated by  the  following  formula  (using  numerical  ratios) : 

NnKc  =  L(N,,  -  1  +  A^if) 

Assuming  an  IF  amplifier  noise  figure  of  4.0  db  (2|  times)  and  the 
average  values  of  "L"  and  'Wr"  given  above  for  the  millimeter  wafer 
units,  we  have  for  the  case  of  a  noiseless  beating  oscillator; 

ATrec  =  5.3  (2.2  -  1  +  2.5)  ^  20  (13  db) 


*  A  few  wafer  units  have  also  been  measured  at  a  wavelength  of  4.16  millimeters. 
The  conversion  losses  averaged  about  1.6  db  greater  than  those  measured  at  a 
wavelength  of  5.4  millimeters. 


1394       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Table  I  —  Comparison  of  Low-Power  Characteristics  of 
Cartridge-Type  and  Wafer-Type  Rectifiers 


Test  Conditions 


power 


Frequency 

Beating     oscillator 

level 

Noise  reference  resistor 

Conversion  loss 

Noise  ratio 

Nominal       IF       impedance 

range 


JAN  Specifications  for  Cartridge-Type 
Rectifiers 


IN26 


23984  mc 

1.0  milliwatts 
300  ohms 
8.5  db  (max) 
2.5  (ma.x) 

300  to  600  ohms 


IN53 


34860  mc 

1 .0  milliwatts 
300  ohms 
8.5  db  (max) 
2.5  (max) 

400  to  800  ohms 


Performance  of 

Wafer-Type 

Rectifiers 


55500  mc 

1.0  milliwatts 
300  ohms 
8.5  db  (max)* 
2.2  (average) t 

250  to  500  ohms 


*  Limit  arbitrarily  set  on  basis  of  100  per  cent  yield  as  explained  in  the  text, 
t  Limit  not  set.  Actually  in  more  recent  production  A'^r  has  averaged  1.7  times. 

In  practice,  the  beating  oscillator  noise  sidebands  can  be  eliminated 
by  the  use  of  a  matched  pair  of  rectifiers  in  a  balanced  converter  ar- 
rangement described  later.  The  resulting  overall  noise  figure  of  13  db 
on  an  average  compares  quite  favorably  with  the  figures  obtained  at 
longer  wavelengths. 

In  Table  I  it  is  seen  that  a  high  percentage  of  the  group  of  one  hundred 
units  would  be  able  to  pass  low-power  JAN  specifications  similar  to  those 
set  down  for  the  commercially  available  IN26  and  IN53  rectifiers  used 
at  longer  wavelengths. 

effect   of   VARYING   THE    BEATING    OSCILLATOR   POWER 

When  the  optimum  over-all  receiver  noise  figure  is  desired,  it  may 
well  turn  out  that  a  beating  oscillator  drive  of  one  milliwatt  (correspond- 
ing to  a  dc  rectified  current  for  different  wafers  of  from  jq  to  Ij  milli- 
amperes)  is  too  large.  Fig.  11  shows  the  effect  on  the  performance  of  a 
typical  unit  as  the  beating  oscillator  drive  is  varied  above  and  below  the 
one  milliwatt  level  as  indicated  by  the  change  in  the  dc  rectified  current. 
It  is  seen  that  the  value  of  N^.  tends  to  increase  rapidly  for  a  beating 
oscillator  drive  much  in  excess  of  one  milliwatt;  with  reduced  drive,  the 
over-all  noise  figure  of  the  receiver,  A^'rec  for  the  example  taken,  im- 
proves, reaching  a  minimum  value  near  a  rectified  current  of  about  ^u 
m.illiampere  corresponding  to  a  drive  of  about  f  of  a  milliwatt. 


A   BALANCED    CONVERTER   FOR   WAFER   UNITS 

A  broad-band  balanced  first  converter  has  been  developed  which  makes 
use  of  a  pair  of  wafer- type  millimeter-wave  rectifiers.  This  converter 


WAFER  TYPE   MILLIMETER   WAVE   RECTIFIERS 


1395 


14. Or 


-I  13.5 


o 

HI  13.0 

Q 


12.5 


d: 
2  12.0 

LU 

5  11.5 


11.0 


ai 
to 

O  10.5 

cc 
^10.0 

LU 

o 

^     9.5 

Q 

<     9.0 

ID 
I/) 

O    8.5 

_i 

2 

O     8.0 

CO 

cc 

HI 

>     7.5 
z 
o 
u 

7.0 


6.5 


note: 

this  curve  was  calculated  using 
an  assumed  value  of  5.5db  for  the 
noise  figure  of  the  if  amplifier  "^^ 


3.5 


(0 
-3.0 

(/) 
h  ^2.5 


2.0 


O  '-^ 

t- 
< 
°^    1.0 

LU 

If) 

O  0.5 


STANDARD   UNIT  NO.  46 

• 

\ 
\ 

HI 
> 

CC 
Q 

O 

CD 

5 

111 
z 
o 

^^ 

^ 

.^^^ 

"«^, 

_ 

Nrec 

s 

N 
N 

.Z,F 

^> 

X. 

\ 

N 

N 

s. 

^x^ 

^ 

'x 

^x 

< 

> 

k-- 

^^ 

^ 



Nr 

r 

-^ 

^L 

— 

— 

— 

— 

380 
360 
340 
320 
300 
280 
260 
240 


>- 
O 

111  o 
cr  I 

U-  (J 

I-  9 

<  <o 
5 


LU 


LU 
:^  Q. 


N 


0.4       0.5       0.6       0.7       0.8       0.9        1.0        1.1         1.2        1.3 
RECTIFIED    CURRENT  IN    MILLIAMPERES 


Fig.  11  —  Typical  performance  curves  for  wafer-type  rectifiers. 


was  designed  to  operate  over  the  4-  to  7-millimeter  band  and  is  pic- 
tured in  Fig.  12.  A  compact  arrangement  has  been  achieved  which 
makes  use  of  a  waveguide  finline-to-coaxial  input  circuit  for  the  beating 
oscillator  while  the  signal  is  introduced  through  a  separate  impedance- 
matched  waveguide  "Tee"  section.  Return  loss  measurements  show  that 
with  a  matched  pair  of  Avafer  units,  fixed-tuned  in  the  center  of  the  5-  to 
6-millimeter  band,  an  excess  loss  of  about  1  db  may  be  expected  at  the 
edges  of  a  15  per  cent  band.  At  midband,  an  improvement  of  5  db  in 
over-all  receiver  noise  figure  was  obtained  by  substituting  the  balanced 
converter  for  an  unbalanced  one  in  a  test  receiver  using  an  M1805  milli- 


1396       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


2 


Fig.  12  —  Balanced  converter  with  wafer-type  rectifiers. 

meter-wave   reflex  klystron*  as  the  beating   oscillator  and  a   60-mc 
intermediate  frequency  amplifier  with  a  5-db  noise  figure. 


REVERSED    POLARITY   WAFER   UNIT 


When  using  crystal  rectifiers  in  a  balanced  converter  arrangement, 
there  is  a  distinct  advantage,  circuit-wise,  in  using  two  units  of  opposite 
polarity.  For  this  reason,  a  reversed-polarity  wafer  type  rectifier  has 
also  been  developed.  This  was  done  by  interchanging  the  silicon  and  the 


*  E.  D.  Reed,  A  Tunable,  Low-Voltage  Reflex  Klystron  for  Operation  in  the 
50  to  60  kmc  Band,  B.  S.  T.  J.,  34,  pp.  563-599,  May,  1955. 


WAFER   TYPE    MILLIMETER   WAVE    RECTIFIERS  1397 

point  contact  spring  in  a  standard  unit.  The  standard  and  reverse- 
polarity  wafer  have  the  same  outer  physical  dimensions  and  thus  they 
may  be  used  interchangeably  in  the  holders  as  dictated  by  the  specific 
problems  at  hand. 

CONCLUDING   REMARKS 

Aside  from  their  intended  use  as  first  detectors  in  double  detection 
receivers,  wafer  units  have  been  used  for  single  detection  measurements 
at  freauencies  as  high  as  107  kmc. 

It  is  felt  that  the  pilot  production  group  of  one  hundred  units  is  a 
sample  of  sufficient  size  to  yield  representative  data  and  to  demonstrate 
the  practicability  of  the  design.  It  should  be  pointed  out  that  the  units 
have  not  been  filled  with  protective  waxes  and  hsive  not  been  subjected 
to  temperature-humidity  cycling  tests.  However,  a  few  reference  units 
have  been  in  use  in  the  laboratory  for  over  a  year  and  have  shown  no 
measurable  deterioration.  No  attempt  has  been  made  to  establish  a 
burn-out  rating  for  the  rectifier,  but  units  have  withstood  available  cw 
input  powers  of  the  order  of  15  milliwatts  and  narrow  pulse  discharges 
of  the  order  of  xV  ^rg  without  causing  noticeable  changes  in  the  con- 
version loss  or  noise  ratio. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The  author  wishes  to  express  his  gratitude  to  H.  T.  Friis  and  A.  B. 
Crawford  for  their  helpful  suggestions  and  guidance  during  the  course 
of  this  work.  Extensive  use  has  also  been  made  of  the  experience  and 
techniques  of  R.  S.  Ohl.  E.  F.  Elbert  participated  in  the  development 
of  the  wafer  unit,  being  particularly  concerned  with  the  techniques  of 
fabrication.  H.  W.  Anderson  and  S.  E.  Reed  were  most  helpful  in  solving 
mechanical  problems  encountered  in  the  production  of  wafer  units  and 
holders. 

APPENDIX 

This  section  describes  some  calculations  that  were  made  for  the  pur- 
pose of  estimating  the  values  of  the  various  parameters  involved  in  the 
design  of  a  high  frequency  point  contact  rectifier.  These  parameters  are 
the  barrier  resistance,  the  spreading  resistance,  the  capacitance  of  the 
barrier  layer  and  the  inductance  of  the  contact  spring.  Knowing  the  ap- 
proximate values  of  these  parameters  one  can,  by  an  equivalent  circuit 
analysis,  arrive  at  a  simple  parallel  circuit  for  the  rectifier  which  may 


1398       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

be  used  in  designing  an  appropriate  holder.  Also,  using  this  equivalent 
circuit,  one  may  calculate  the  bandwidth  expected  for  the  converter. 

Fig.  13  shows  the  point  contact  rectifiers  under  consideration  and  an 
enlarged  view  of  the  point  contact  region.  On  the  right  of  the  figure  are 
shown  equivalent  circuits  of  the  rectifier.  Circuit  I  is  the  generally  ac- 
cepted circuit  of  a  point  contact  rectifier.  The  true  circuit  for  a  rectifier 
operating  at  millimeter  wavelengths  is  probably  more  complicated  than 
that  shown  in  the  figure  but,  for  an  approximate  analysis,  the  simplified 
circuit  has  been  found  to  yield  useful  results.  In  the  folloAving  para- 
graphs, values  are  derived  for  the  parameters  of  this  equivalent  circuit. 
MKS  units  are  used  and  values  appropriate  to  the  millimeter  wave 
wafer  unit  are  used  as  examples. 

Spreading  Resistance 

The  spreading  resistance,  Rs ,  may  be  calculated  if  we  know  the  re- 
sistivity of  the  silicon  used  for  the  rectifier  and  the  radius  of  the  contact 
area  formed  when  the  units  are  assembled.  For  DuPont  high-purity 
silicon,  doped  with  0.02  per  cent  boron  by  weight,  W.  Shockley*  gives 
the  resistivity,  p,  as  0.90  X  10~  ohm  meters.  From  numerous  measure- 
ments on  millimeter  wave  contact  areas,  R.  S.  Ohl  finds  the  contact 
radius,  n  ,  to  be  about  1.25  X  10"    meters.  The  spreading  resistance, 


RECTIFIER 
UNIT 


-SPRING 


ENLARGED 

POINT 
CONTACT 


EQUIVALENT  CIRCUITS 


BARRIER 


SL+0.02%B 
RESISTIVITY  p 


L  =  INDUCTANCE   OF    SPRING 
C=  CAPACITANCE    OF  BARRIER    LAYER 
R  =  RESISTANCE    OF    BARRIER    LAYER 
Rs=  SPREADING   RESISTANCE 


a>C, 


wC 


^(^^) 


R,= 


1  +  (a)CR)' 


COL; 


R2=Rs+Ri  + 


KM 

Rs  +  R, 


Fig.  13  —  Point  contact  rectifier  and  equivalent  circuits. 


*  W.  Shockley,  Electrons  and  Holes  in  Semiconductors,  New  York:  D.  Van 
Nostrand  Co.,  Inc.,  1950,  p.  284. 


WAFER   TYPE    MILLIMETER    WAVE    RECTIFIERS  1399 

itf  Rs ,  assuming  a  circular  contact  area,  may  be  calculated  from  the  for- 
mula, Rs  =  p/4ri  .*  For  the  above  example,  Rs  =  18  ohms. 

Barrier  Resistance 

The  approximate  operating  value  of  the  barrier  resistance,  /?,  may  be 
determined  from  a  knowledge  of  the  intermediate  frequency  impedance 
of  a  typical  rectifier.  A.  B.  Cra^^^ord  has  sho-wn  that  the  optimum  inter- 
mediate frequency  output  impedance  of  a  crystal  mixer  rectifier  is  a 
function  of  the  exponent  of  the  static  characteristic  of  the  rectifier  and 
the  impedance  presented  to  the  rectifier  at  the  image  and  signal  fre- 
quencies. This  information  is  presented  in  Fig.  12.3-6  in  G.  C.  South- 
worth's  book.f  In  the  millimeter  wave  case  it  is  a  good  assumption  that 
the  impedances  for  the  signal  and  image  frequencies  are  equal;  for  this 
case  and  for  matched  conditions,  the  magnitude  of  the  high  frequency 
impedance  is  seen  to  be  a  simple  multiple  of  the  intermediate  frequency 
impedance  Rif  • 

From  numerous  measurements  on  mixer  rectifiers  operating  at  differ- 
ent frequencies  it  is  known  that  the  intermediate  frequency  impedance 
of  an  average  rectifier  is  very  nearly  400  ohms.  We  also  know  from  the 
DC  static  characteristics  of  our  millimeter  wave  type  rectifiers  that  the 
average  exponent  is  about  four.  With  this  information,  and  the  curves 
in  Southworth's  book,  it  is  found  that  R  ^  Rif/1.5.  Thus,  the  barrier 
resistance  R  is  about  250  ohms.| 

Capacitance  of  Barrier  Layer 

From  a  knowledge  of  the  point  contact  area,  the  barrier  layer  thick- 
ness, and  the  dielectric  constant  of  the  silicon,  the  capacitance  of  the 
point  contact  may  be  calculated.  The  radius  of  the  contact  point  area  is 
the  same  as  that  used  for  the  calculation  of  the  spreading  resistance.  The 
barrier  layer  thickness,  h,  for  the  heat  treated  silicon  used  for  millimeter 
waves  has  been  measured  by  R.  S.  Ohl  to  be  about  10'  meters.  The 
dielectric  constant  of  sihcon  is  fr  =  13.  The  capacitance  is  given  by  the 
following  formula 


^& 


2 


*  J.  H.  Jeans,  Mathematical  Theory  of  Electricity  and  Magnetism,  5th  Ed., 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1925. 

t  G.  C.  Southworth,  Principles  and  Applications  of  Waveguide  Transmission, 
New  York:  D.  Van  Nostrand  Co.,  Inc.,  1950. 

t  This  resistance  cannot  be  readily  measured  directly  at  millimeter  waves. 


1400       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


For  the  above  case  C  =  5.7  X  10"  farads  or  l/coC  at  5.4  millimeters 
is  about  50  ohms. 

The  accuracy  of  this  capacitance  calculation  can  be  verified  later 
when  a  completed  rectifier  is  measured  for  its  high  frequency  conversion 
loss.  This  is  possible  because  we  know  the  calculated  low  frequency 
conversion  loss  of  the  rectifier,  for  the  case  of  zero  spreading  resistance 
from  Southworth's  book.  Fig.  12.3-7.  For  an  exponent  of  four  this  loss 
is  given  as  4.4  db.  The  additional  loss  at  high  frequency  due  to  the 
capacitance,  C,  may  be  calculated  (see  Equivalent  Circuit  II)  by  the 
formula : 


Additional  Loss 


10  logic  :?L+_?f  db 
/ti 


(2) 


From  the  text  (Fig.  8),  it  is  seen  that  the  average  wafer  rectifier  unit 
has  a  conversion  loss  at  5.4  millimeters  of  7.2  db;  thus,  the  difference 
between  the  low  and  high  frequency  conversion  losses  is  very  nearly  3  db. 
This  means  that  about  one-half  the  signal  power  is  lost  in  the  spreading 
resistance;  hence  Ri  and  i?,  are  about  equal.  By  transferring  back  to 
Equivalent  Circuit  I,  the  average  value  of  the  capacitance  is  found  to  be 


4.1  X  10      farads,  which  is  a  reasonable  check  with  the  calculated  value 
given  by  (1). 


Inductance  of  the  Contact  Spring 

The  remaining  parameter  of  the  equivalent  circuit  to  be  determined 
is  the  inductance  of  the  contact  spring.  The  value  of  the  equivalent 
parallel  resistance,  i?2 ,  depends  on  the  inductance  L  (the  other  param- 
eters being  fixed),  or  conversely,  for  a  given  value  of  R2 ,  the  appropriate 
value  for  L  may  be  calculated  from  the  formula  for  Equivalent  Circuit 
III.  For  an  off-center  match  of  the  rectifier  to  the  waveguide,  R2  must 
equal  the  guide  impedance,  Zd  ,  at  the  rectifier  location.  Also,  for  a 
match,  the  distance,  I,  from  the  rectifier  to  the  waveguide  piston  must 


'/////////////////////////////J///////////////////^///////A 


'R'. 


I 


PISTON 


V////////////////////////////^///////////////////////>////////. 
WAVEGUIDE  B|  J 


T 

I 

b 
I 
I 
I 

i_ 


V///y^////y'y'//J///////////////77777y 


I 


V///////////f////y/////////y/y7/77/A 


k 


. -A 


Fig.  14  —  Mulching  circuit  for  rectifier  offset  in  waveguide. 


WAFER   TYPE   MILLIMETER   WAVE    RECTIFIERS 


1401 


satisfy  the  relation,  Zd  tan  2-Ki/\g  =   —  coLa .  (See  Fig.  14.)  The  imped- 
ance of  the  guide  as  a  function  of  d/a  is  given  by, 


Zd  =  2407r  - 


'/RU 


sni 


xd 


a 


(3) 


As  a  compromise  between  electrical  and  mechanical  requirements,  a 
waveguide  height,  6,  of  -5^  inch  was  chosen  for  the  wafer  unit ;  the  width 
of  the  guide  was  taken  to  be  the  same  as  RG9SU.  For  b  =  7.88  X  10~*, 
a  =  3.76  X  10"',  d/a  =  |  and  X  =  5.4  X  10~',  (3)  gives  a  value  of  113 
ohms  for  Zd  (and  R2).  The  appropriate  value  for  L  then  becomes  3.38  X 
10"^"  henries. 

An  estimate  of  the  size  of  a  contact  spring  having  the  inductance 
given  above  can  be  made  from  the  formula  below  which  gives  the  in- 
ductance of  a  straight  thin  wire  of  length  *S  as  a  function  of  its  sidewise 
position  in  the  waveguide.*  (See  Fig.  15.) 


2S  log, 


.     ird 
2a  sm  — 
a 

r2«d 


\-y 


X  10     henries 


(4) 


For  d/a  =  I  and  2r2  =  2.28  X  10  ^  (0.9  X  10  '  inches),  the  length,  S, 
is  found  to  be  about  3.38  X  10"  meters  or  about  0.013  inches. 

Since  the  spring  must  be  so  very  small,  the  circuit  from  the  base  of 
the  spring  to  the  waveguide  wall  is  completed  with  a  large  low  induc- 
tance conical  post  as  shown  in  Fig.  2  of  the  text. 


Bandwidth  Calculation 

Having  assigned  values  to  all  the  parameters  of  the  equivalent  cir- 
cuit, it  is  now  possible  to  calculate  the  mismatch  loss  of  a  fixed-tune 


Y- 


a 


i 


'/////////////////////////////7777. 


I   fSTRAIGHTA 
•"V      WIRE       ] 


-ZT2 


V///////////}//////////////77777yA 


U-d-J 


I 

s 

I 
I 

JL 


Fig.  15  —  Thin  wire  in  waveguide. 


*  Private  communication  from  S.  A.  Schelkunoff. 


1402       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


converter  for  a  given  change  in  operating  wavelength.  This  loss  is  given 
by  the  following  formula: 


Mismatch  loss 


=  10  log 


4Zd 


10 


R2 


1  + 


R2 


+ 


+ 


wLo       tan  2iri/\g, 


db     (5) 


For  the  wafer  miit,  calculation  shows  that  the  rectifier  is  matched  to  the 
waveguide  at  a  wavelength  of  5.4  X  10"^  meters  for  d/a  =  j  and  ^  = 
3.14  X  10^  .  If  now  the  wavelength  is  changed  to  6.3  X  10~^  meters, 
without  re  tuning  (17  per  cent  change)  the  mismatch  loss  calculated  by 
(5)  is  1.6  db.  It  was  stated  in  the  text  that  a  number  of  wafer  units  gave 
measured  mismatch  losses  of  from  1.6  to  4.0  db  for  a  17  per  cent  change 
in  wavelength  without  retuning.  This  is  considered  to  be  a  reasonable 
correlation  between  calculations  and  measurements. 


Frequency  Conversion  by  Means  of  a 
Nonlinear  Admittance 

C.  F.  EDWARDS 

(Manuscript  received  June  20,  1956) 

This  paper  gives  a  mathematical  analysis  of  a  heterodyne  conversion 
transducer  in  which  the  nonlinear  element  is  made  up  of  a  nonlinear  re- 
sistor and  a  nonlinear  capacitor  in  parallel.  Curves  are  given,  showing  the 
change  in  admittance  and  gain  as  the  characteristics  of  the  nonlinear  ele- 
ments are  varied.  The  case  where  a  conjugate  match  exists  at  the  terminals  is 
treated. 

It  is  shown  that  when  the  output  frequency  is  greater  than  the  input  fre- 
quency, modulators  having  substantial  gain  and  bandwidth  are  possible, 
but  when  the  output  frequency  is  less  than  the  input  frequency,  the  con- 
verter loss  is  greater  than  unity  and  is  little  affected  by  the  nonlinear  ca- 
pacitor. The  conditions  under  which  a  conjugate  match  is  possible  are 
specified  and  it  is  concluded  that  a  nonlinear  capacitor  alone  is  the  pre- 
ferred element  for  modidators  and  that  a  nonlinear  resistor  alone  gives  the 
best  performance  in  converters. 

INTRODUCTION 

Point  contact  rectifiers  using  either  silicon  or  germanium  are  used  as 
the  nonlinear  element  in  microwave  modulators  to  change  an  inter- 
mediate frequency  signal  to  an  outgoing  microwave  signal  and  in  re- 
ceiving converters  to  change  an  incoming  microwave  signal  to  a  lower 
intermediate  frequency.  Most  point  contact  rectifiers  now  in  use  behave 
as  pure  nonlinear  resistors  as  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  in  either  of  the 
above  uses  the  conversion  loss  is  the  same.  In  recent  experiments  with 
heterodyne  conversion  transducers*  using  point  contact  rectifiers  made 
with  ion  bombarded  silicon  this  was  found  to  be  no  longer  true.  The 
conversion  loss  of  the  modulator  was  found  to  be  unusually  low  and 

*  This  term  is  defined  in  American  Standard  Definitions  of  Electrical  Terms 
—  ASA  C42  —  as  "a  conversion  transducer  in  which  the  useful  output  frequency 
is  the  sum  or  difference  of  the  input  frequency  and  an  integral  multiple  of  the 
frequency  of  another  wave". 

1403 


1404       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

that  of  the  converter  was  several  decibels  greater.  In  one  instance  the 
loss  in  a  modulator  used  to  convert  a  70  mc  signal  to  one  at  11,130  mc 
was  found  to  be  only  2.3  db  but  when  the  direction  of  transmission 
through  it  was  reversed  and  it  was  used  as  a  converter,  the  loss  was  7.8 
decibels. 

h  Similar  effects  were  observed  several  years  ago  in  conversion  trans- 
ducers using  welded  contact  germanium  rectifiers.  In  these  early  experi- 
ments substantial  converter  gain  and  negative  conductance  at  the  inter- 
mediate frequency  terminals  were  also  observed.  These  results  were 
accounted  for  by  assuming  the  presence  of  a  nonlinear  capacitance  at  the 
point  contact  in  parallel  with  the  nonlinear  resistance.  At  that  time  at- 
tention was  devoted  mainly  to  the  behavior  of  converters  where  noise 
is  a  vital  factor.  It  was  found  that  although  the  conversion  loss  could 
be  reduced,  the  noise  temperature  increased  and  no  improvement  in 
noise  figure  resulted.  However,  the  noise  temperature  requirements  in 
modulators  are  much  less  severe  and  the  nonlinear  capacitance  effect  is 
useful  and  can  substantially  improve  the  performance. 

THEORY 

The  mathematical  analysis  given  here  was  undertaken  in  order  to 
clarify  the  effect  of  the  nonlinear  capacitance  in  the  frequency  conversion 
process  and  to  obtain  an  estimate  of  the  usefulness  of  modulators  ex- 
hibiting gain.  The  analysis  is  restricted  to  the  simplest  case  in  which 
signal  voltages  are  allowed  to  develop  across  the  nonlinear  elements  at 
the  input  and  output  frequencies  only.  This  is  not  an  unrealistic  restric- 
tion since  the  conversion  transducers  used  in  microwave  relay  systems 
have  filters  associated  with  them  which  suppress  the  modulation  products 
outside  the  signal  band.  The  final  results  will  be  given  only  for  those  con- 
ditions which  permit  a  conjugate  match  at  the  input  and  output  of  the 
transducer. 

The  procedure  used  to  obtain  expressions  for  the  admittance  and 
gain  of  conversion  transducers  utilizing  a  nonlinear  element  made  up 
of  a  nonlinear  resistance  and  a  nonlinear  capacitance  in  parallel  follows 
the  commonly  used  method  of  treating  the  nonlinear  elements  as  local 
oscillator  controlled  linear  time  varying  elements.  The  current  through 
the  nonlinear  resistor  is  a  function  of  the  applied  voltage.  The  derivative 
of  this  function  is  the  conductance  as  a  function  of  the  applied  voltage. 
Thus  when  the  local  oscillator  is  applied,  the  conductance  varies  at  the 
local  oscillator  frequency  and  the  conductance  as  a  function  of  time 
may  be  obtained.  This  is  periodic  and  may  be  expressed  as  a  Fourier 
series.  The  conductance  is  real  and  if  we  make  the  usual  assumption  that 


FREQUENCY   CONVERSION   BY   A    NONLINEAR   ADMITTANCE        1405 


it  may  be  expressed  as  an  even  function  of  time,  we  may  write 


7  = 


(1) 


where  coo/27r  is  the  local  oscillator  frequency  /o  and  the  Fourier  coeffi- 
cients Gn  are  real.  Similarly  the  charge  on  the  nonlinear  capacitor  is  a 
function  of  the  applied  voltage.  The  derivative  of  this  function  is  the 
capacitance  as  a  function  of  the  applied  voltage.  The  application  of  the 
local  oscillator  thus  causes  the  capacitance  to  vary  at  the  local  oscillator 
frequency  so  that  it  also  may  be  expressed  as  a  Fourier  series.  The  ca- 
pacitance K  is  real,  and  assuming  it  may  be  expressed  as  an  even  function 
of  time,  we  have 


+  Cae"''""'  +  Cre~'"''  +  Co  +  Cie^""'  +  C^e'^"''  + 


(2) 


It  is  assumed  that  the  current  and  charge  functions  are  single  valued  and 
that  their  derivatives  are  always  positive. 

When  a  small  signal  voltage  v  is  apphed  to  the  nonlinear  resistor,  the 
signal  current  through  the  resistor  is  given  by  yv.  When  it  is  applied  to 
the  nonlinear  capacitor  the  charge  on  the  capacitor  is  kv.  The  total  cur- 
rent i  which  flows  through  the  two  nonlinear  elements  connected  in 
parallel  thus  becomes 


(3) 


V  of  course  must  be  small  and  not  affect  the  value  of  7  and  k. 

Fig.  1  shows  a  heterodyne  conversion  transducer  made  up  of  a  non- 
linear resistor  and  a  nonlinear  capacitor  in  parallel  driven  by  an  internal 
local  oscillator,  /i  is  the  signal  frequency  at  the  terminals  1-2,  and  7/1  is 
the  external  admittance  connected  to  these  terminals.  The  signal  fre- 
quency at  the  terminals  3-4  is  /2 ,  and  y2  is  the  external  admittance. 


I, 

> 

1 

+  v- 

3 

h* 

^          ( 

' 

+ 

yi 

+ 

V, 

A 

B 

m 

ys 



r^           *.« 

2 

4 

L<^>_i 

y/////////////////////////m///////m//////////////////////,//////^^^^^ 

Fig.  1  —  Heterodyne  conversion  transducer. 


140G       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

A,  B  and  C  are  ideal  frequency  selective  networks  whose  admittances 
are  zero  at  /i ,  f^  and  /o  respectively,  and  infinite  at  all  other  frequencies. 
This  circuit  permits  the  application  of  the  local  oscillator  voltage  to  the 
nonlinear  elements  but  permits  signal  voltages  to  develop  across  them 
at  /i  and  f^  only.  Similarly,  signal  currents  at  frequencies  other  than  /i 
and  /2  encounter  no  external  impedance,  so  they  cannot  alter  the  signal 
voltage  or  contribute  to  the  external  power.  This,  of  course,  assumes  that 
if  the  nonlinear  element  is  a  point  contact  rectifier  the  spreading  resist- 
ance normally  present  is  negligible. 

If  /i  is  a  frequency  less  than  half  the  local  oscillator  frequency  /o  (it  is 
generally  very  much  less),  the  network  B  can  be  selected  to  make  /2 
either  /o  +  /i ,  or  fo  —  fi  ■  To  distinguish  between  the  two  cases,  we  will 
call  the  former  a  noninverting  conversion  transducer  since  an  increase 
in  one  signal  frequency  causes  an  increase  in  the  other.  The  latter  will 
be  called  an  inverting  conversion  transducer  since  an  increase  in  one 
signal  frequency  results  in  a  decrease  in  the  other.  When  yi  contains 
the  generator  and  2/2  the  load,  the  device  becomes  a  modulator.  When  2/2 
contains  the  generator  and  yi  the  load,  it  is  a  converter. 

The  real  part  of  the  signal  voltage  may  be  written 

V  =  Vie''^''  +  Vi*e~'"''  +  V^e'"''  +  ¥2*6-'"''  (4) 

where  V*  is  the  complex  conjugate  of  V  and  w  =  27r/,  Similarly,  the  real 
part  of  the  signal  current  may  be  written 

•  ^  j^^J-it  _|.  /^*e-i"i«  +  72gi"2t  ^  /2*e~'"=^'  (5) 

If  we  multiply  equations  (1)  and  (4)  and  retain  only  those  terms  con- 
taining /i  and  /2  we  obtain,  in  the  case  of  the  non-inverting  conversion 
transducer  where  /2  =  /o  +  /i , 

(6) 
+  [GoV,*  -f  G,V2*]e~'"''  -f  [GiFi*  +  GoV2*]e~'"'' 

Similarly,  if  we  multiply  (2)  and  (4)  we  get  an  expression  like  (6)  with 
the  G's  replaced  by  C's.  If  we  differentiate  this  expression  we  get 

~  M  =  jcci  [CoVi  +  CV^le'"''  +  MiCiVi  +  C0V2W'''' 

at  (7) 


-  jcoiiCoFi*  -f  CiF2*]e-^"^ '  -  icoslCiFi*  +  C,V2*]e 


■joi2  t 


When  we  perform  the  addition  indicated  by  (3)  and  compare  the  result 
with  (5)  we  obtain 

/i  =  [Go  +  icoiColFi  -f  [G,  -f  jmCi]V2 

(8) 
h  =  [Gi  +  ic^CJFi  +  [Go  +  JCC2C0W2 


FREQUENCY   CONVERSION   BY   A    NONLINEAR  ADMITTANCE        1407 


Going  through  the  same  steps  for  the  hivertmg  conversion  transducer 
where  /2  =  /o  —  /i  we  obtain 


/i  =  [Go  +  icoiCo]Fi  +  [G,  +  iciCilFo* 
h*  =  [G,  -  jwoCiW,  +  [Go  -  MC0W2* 
Equations  (8)  and  (9)  are  in  the  form 

/i  =  FnFi  +  F12F2 

I2    =     ^21'''l    ~l~     F22F2 


(9) 


(10) 


A  heterodyne  conversion  transducer  may  thus  be  represented  by  a 
linear  4-pole,  and  the  admittance  and  gain  of  the  4-pole  may  be  expressed 
in  terms  of  the  admittance  coefficients.  In  Fig.  1  we  see  that  the  admit- 
tance of  the  4-pole  yi  at  the  terminals  1-2  is  eciual  to  Ii/Vi  and  the 
admittance  2/2  connected  to  terminals  3-4  is  — /2/l^  .  Putting  these  in 
(10)  we  find 

YuY,,  (11) 


yi 


Yn 


F22  +  Vi 


Similarly  the  admittance  of  the  4-pole  2/2'  at  the  terminals  3-4  is  72/ F2 
and  the  admittance  yi  connected  to  terminals  1-2  is  —Ii/Vi .  Putting 
these  in  (10)  gives 


2/2 


F 


22 


i  12^  21 
Yn  +  2/1 


(12) 


To  compute  the  gain  of  the  4-pole  when  7/1  contains  the  generator  and 
y-i  the  load,  it  is  convenient  to  assume  a  current  source  connected  across 
?/i .  If  the  current  from  this  source  is  Jo  we  have  Ii  =  lo  —  yiVi  .  I2 
equals  —y2V2  as  before.  Putting  these  in  (10)  gives 


-'0         _        T^ 


(Fn    +    2/l)(F22    +    ?/2) 


F 


(13) 


21 


If  we  let  yi  =  Qi  -{-  jbi  and  ?/2  =  ^2  +  i&2 ,  the  power  in  the  load  isF2  ^2 
and  the  power  available  from  the  generator  is  /oV4^i  .  Therefore  the 
transducer  gain  ri2  defined  as  the  ratio  of  the  power  in  y2  to  that  avail- 
able from  2/1  becomes 


F2' 
Tu  =4gig2j-^  =  "igig 

1  n" 


21 


(14) 


F12F21  -   (Fn  +  2/1) (F22  +  2/2) 

When  ?/2  contains  the  generator  and  yi  the  load,  we  may  proceed  in  the 
same  way  (letting  7o  flow  in  terminal  4)  and  obtain 

2 


r2i  =  4^-1^2 


F 


12 


F12F21    -    (Fu   +   ?/0(F22   +   2/2) 


(15) 


1408       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

We  may  now  obtain  expressions  for  the  admittance  and  gain  of  the 
4-pole  when  the  nonhnear  element  consists  of  a  nonUnear  resistor  and 
a  nonlinear  capacitor  in  parallel.  We  shall  do  this  for  the  case  where  a 
conjugate  match  exists  at  the  terminals  by  letting  ?//  =  ^i*  and  y^  = 
1)1*.  Equations  (11)  and  (12)  may  thus  be  written 

(Fii  -  2/i*)(F22  +  ?/2)  =  (Fn  +  VxWii  -  y2*)  =  F12F21      (16) 

When  this  is  multiplied  out,  letting  ¥„,„  =  Gmn  +  jBmn  ,  and  the  real 
and  imaginary  parts  set  equal  as  indicated  by  the  first  equality  we  ob- 
tain Gng2  =  G-iigx  and  giiBn  +  &i)  =  QiiB-n  +  62).  In  (8)  and  (9)  it  is 
seen  that  Gn  =  (722  =  (?o  and  that  ^22  is  positive  in  equations  (8)  and 
negative  in  equations  (9).  We  thus  obtain 

gi  =  g2        bi  +  wiCo  =  62  ±  C02C0  (17) 

where  the  upper  symbol  of  the  ±  sign  is  used  in  the  noninverting  case 
and  the  lower  symbol  in  the  inverting  case.  When  the  real  and  imaginary 
parts  are  set  equal  as  indicated  by  the  second  equality  in  (16)  we  obtain, 
using  the  results  in  (17), 

g'  =  Go'  -  Gi   ±  C01C02C1'  -  B'  (18) 

where 

g  =  gi  =  g2  (19) 

and 

B    =    bl  +  COiCo    =    62  ±   COsCo    =    ±  ^    (C02   ±   C0l)(7l  (20) 

2G-0 

These  results  may  be  put  in  (14)  to  obtain  the  modulator  gain.  Since  a 
conjugate  match  exists  at  the  terminals  of  the  4-pole,  this  is  the  maxi- 
mum available  gain.  The  result  is 

MAO.  =  ,^::^^%  (2.) 

For  the  converter,  using  equation  (15)  we  obtain 

These  results  are  valid  only  when  a  conjugate  match  exists  at  the  ter- 
minals. For  this  to  be  possible,  the  right  side  of  (18)  must  be  positive. 
If  it  is  negative  no  combination  of  values  of  gi  and  ^2  will  result  in  a 
match. 


FREQUENCY   CONVERSION    BY   A    NONLINEAR   ADMITTANCE        1409 

It  may  be  shown  that  if  the  slope  of  the  voltage-current  characteristic 
of  the  nonlinear  resistor  is  always  positive,  then  Gi/Go  can  never  be 
greater  than  unity.  (Reference  1,  p.  410.)  It  is  therefore  convenient  to 
normalize  the  above  results  with  respect  to  Go  .  If  we  let 


—  =  p, 

CO-) 


COlCl 


=  px, 


CO' 


2C1 


Go  Go 

equations  (18)  through  (22)  become 


=  X, 


Gi 

Go 


7T  =  y, 


Go  _ 
Gx      ^ 


If  ±  px-  - 


XIJ 


(l±p)i^ 


Go 


=  ± 


:i±p)f 


pxz. 


MAG12  = 


MAGn  = 


62  ^ 
Jf  +  X- 


XIJ 


±(1  ±  p)  '-^  ±  xz 


1  + 


Go 


+ 


(1  ±p) 


xii_ 


y'  +  {9xY 


1  + 


Q_ 

Go 


+ 


(1±P)^ 


(23) 


(24) 


(25) 


(26) 


(27) 


In  these  equations,  p  is  less  than  \  in  the  noninverting  case  and  less  than  1 
in  the  inverting  case.  Ordinarily  it  will  be  very  much  less  than  1.  The 
value  of  z  will  be  determined  by  the  shape  of  the  nonlinear  capacitor 
characteristic.  However  z  appears  only  in  (25)  where  it  influences  the 
values  of  the  matching  susceptances  so  that  it  does  not  affect  the  con- 
ductance or  gain.  While  we  can  be  certain  that  y  will  have  values  be- 
tween 0  and  1,  limitations  on  the  value  of  x  will  depend  on  the  particular 
device  used.  We  will  therefore  assume  that  x  may  have  any  value. 


EFFECT   OF   NONLINEAR   CAPACITOR 

We  may  now  examine,  in  a  general  way,  the  manner  in  A\hich  the  non- 
linear capacitor  influences  the  behavior  of  the  4-pole.  Consider  first  the 
case  where  the  nonlinear  capacitor  is  absent.  It  is  well  known,  and  can 
be  seen  in  the  above  equations  by  letting  Go  =  Gi  =  0,  that  the  non- 
inverting  and  inverting  cases  are  alike,  that  the  4-pole  can  always  be 
matched  and  that  the  gain  is  the  same  in  both  directions  and  can  never 
be  greater  than  unity.  In  addition,  the  matching  susceptances  are  zero 
and  the  gain  is  independent  of  frequency  so  that  there  is  no  limitation 
to  the  bandwidth.  When  the  nonlinear  capacitor  is  added,  all  but  one  of 
these  conditions  are  changed.  Equations  (8)  and  (9)  show  that  the  non- 


1410       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

inverting  and  inverting  cases  are  different,  (24)  may  become  negative 
so  that  the  4-pole  cannot  ahvays  be  matched  and  (26)  and  (27)  are  dif- 
ferent so  that  the  gains  through  the  4-pole  are  not  the  same  in  the  two 
directions.  Furthermore,  (26)  can  be  greater  than  unity  so  that  modula- 
tors may  have  gain.  However,  as  will  be  shown,  the  converter  gain 
given  by  (27)  is  still  restricted  to  values  less  than  unity.  It  is  also  seen 
that  the  matching  susceptances  are  no  longer  zero  and  that  the  gain 
varies  with  frequency  so  that  the  bandwidth  is  limited. 

If  we  remove  the  restriction  that  a  conjugate  match  exists  and  operate 
the  4-pole  between  arbitrary  admittances,  it  may  be  shown  in  (11)  and 
(12)  that  the  conductance  of  the  4-pole  may  become  negative,  and  in  (14) 
and  (15)  that  the  gain  may  have  any  value,  however  large.  This  is  true 
for  both  noninverting  and  inverting  modulators  and  converters.  How- 
ever, we  see  in  (14)  and  (15)  that  the  ratio  of  the  modulator  gain  to  the 
converter  gain  is  |  F21/F12 1".  This  is  greater  than  unity,  so  that  for  the 
same  operating  conditions  the  modulator  gain  will  be  greater  than  the 
converter  gain.  Although  increased  gain  is  possible,  it  is  obtained  at  the 
expense  of  reduced  bandwidth  and  increased  sensitivity  to  changes  in  the 
terminating  admittances,  particularly  in  the  case  of  converters.  The 
present  analysis  will  therefore  be  restricted  to  the  case  where  a  conjugate 
match  exists. 


1.0 


0.9 


0.8 


0.7 


0  6 


0.5 


0.4 


0.3 


0.2 


0.1 


\ 

N^ 

yv  Go   1 

\^ 

O.J 

\ 

0  sV 

v 

i 

\s 

V^ 

\ 

\ 

^ 

^ 

x 

^.9 

V 

X^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

== 

= 

^^^ 

1.0 



|-^ 

/ 

1.1 

y^""^ 

^ 

■'^ 

0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14 

X 


Fig.  2  —  Conductance  contours  of  noninverting  transducer. 


FREQUENCY   CONVERSION   BY   A    NONLINEAR  ADMITTANCE         1411 


1.0 


0.9 


0.8 


0  7 


0.6 


0.5 


0.4 


I       0.3 


0.2 


0  1 


\ 

N^ 

\ 

V 

\\ 

\ 

\    > 

s^ 

\ 

\^ 

!bv 

\ 

\^ 

^ 

V 

^ 

\ 

\ 

\; 

^ 

"^^ 

0.3 

k 

\? 

ES 

X 

07^ 

05^ 

^ 

^-«^^ 

0.9\ 

\ 

X 

' 

^ 

X 

7 
X 


10  11  12  13  14 


Fig.  3  —  Conductance  contours  for  inverting  transducer. 


CONDUCTANCE   AND    GAIN   VERSUS   X   AND    y 

By  assigning  a  value  to  p,  curves  may  be  plotted  showing  how  the 
conductance  and  gain  of  the  4-pole  change  as  the  characteristics  of  the 
nonlinear  resistor  and  nonlinear  capacitor  are  varied.  The  particular  case 
when  /2  is  about  160  times  /i  will  be  treated.  This  corresponds,  for  ex- 
ample, to  an  intermediate  frequency  of  70  mc  and  a  local  oscillator  f re- 
fluency  of  11,200  mc. 

Figs.  2  and  3  show  the  normalized  conductance  contours  as  functions 
of  .T  and  y  as  given  by  (24)  for  the  noninverting  and  inverting  cases  re- 
spectively. It  wall  be  seen  that  in  most  instances,  increasing  the  value  of 
X  causes  g/Go  to  decrease.  An  exception  occurs  in  the  noninverting  case 
(Fig.  2)  when  y  is  less  than  2-\/p/(p  +  1)  or  0.157  where  it  is  seen  that 
increasing  x  causes  g/Go  to  increase.  When  x  and  y  have  values  corre- 
sponding to  points  above  the  g/Go  =  0  curve,  the  4-pole  cannot  be 
matched  and  (23)  through  (27)  are  not  applicable.  However,  it  will 
be  noted  that  connecting  a  resistor  across  either  the  nonlinear  elements 
or  across  the  input  and  output  terminals  has  the  effect  of  increasing  Go  . 
By  this  means  the  4-pole  can  always  be  reduced  to  the  condition  w^here 
it  can  be  matched. 

Figs.  4  and  5  show  the  modulator  gain  contours  as  functions  of  x  and  y 


1412       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


1  .u 
0.9 
0  8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 

\ 

V 

x^ 

\ 

\  \ 
\  \ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\i 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

-5     I 

\ 

N 

\^ 

' 

0 

\^ 

^^. 

"-^. 

\ 

^ 

I 

"""* — 

^^ 

_, 

0.2 

0.1 

0 

^*-^v^ 

—  —  ^. 



V 

\, 

15DB\ 
1    \ 

3  4  5  6  7  B 

X 


9  to  \\  12  13  14 


Fig.  4  —  Gain  contours  for  noninverting  modulators. 


1.0 


0.9 


0.8 


0.7 


0.6 


0.5 


0.4 


0.3 


0.2 


0.1 


\ 

V 

\ 

\ 

I  \ 
\  \ 

\ 

\  \ 
\  \ 
\    \ 
\    \ 

\ 

\" 

\  \ 

1 

V 

-5     1 

\ 

\ 
\ 

> 

\ 

C 

3 

\ 

\ 

X, 

\ 

.        "^^ 

'^-'^. 

^^ 

\l( 

3 

N 

^- 

"^--. 

'•«*^ 

A 

15DB 

^. 

--^ 

-s. 

3  4  5  6 


7  6  9  10  11  12  13  14 

X 


Fig.  5  —  Gain  contours  for  inverting  modulator. 


FREQUENCY   CONVERSION    BY   A    NONLINEAR  ADMITTANCE        1413 


■--, 

\. 

-5DB 

X 

\ 

.^> 

-10[ 

3B 

^ 

^-< 

NONINVERTING 

/ 

^<s 

INVERTING^^^ 

1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 


0.5        1.0        1.5       2.0       2.5       3.0       3.5      4,0      4.5       5.0 
X 

Fig.  6  —  Gain  contours  for  converter. 

as  given  by  (26) .  Here  it  is  seen  that  increasing  the  value  of  x  causes  the 
gain  to  increase.  For  values  of  x  less  than  about  3,  the  gains  in  the  non- 
inverting  and  inverting  cases  are  the  same.  In  the  nonin verting  case,  x 
may  increase  indefinitely,  provided  y  is  less  than  0.157,  and  a  gain  equal 
to  the  ratio  of  the  output  frequency  to  the  input  frequency  eventually 
reached,  22.1  db  in  this  case.  In  the  inverting  case,  the  maximum  gain 
obtainable  is  19.3  db,  and  it  occurs  when  y  is  zero. 

Fig.  6  shows  the  converter  gain  contours  as  given  by  equation  (27). 
Here  we  see  that  increasing  x  causes  a  decrease  in  the  loss,  but  the  de- 
crease is  small  and  in  no  case  can  the  gain  be  greater  than  0  db.  This  oc- 
curs when  X  is  zero.  The  nonlinear  capacitor  is  thus  of  small  benefit  in 
the  converter  case.  About  the  most  benefit  that  can  be  obtained  is  a  de- 
crease in  loss  of  perhaps  1  db.  For  example,  if  the  nonlinear  resistor  alone 
has  a  loss  of  6  db  {y  =  0.8),  this  could  be  reduced  to  5  db  by  adding  a 
nonlinear  capacitor  of  such  value  as  to  make  x  =  1.3. 


BANDWIDTH 


Since  both  the  admittance  and  gain  of  the  4-pole  vary  with  frequency, 
the  bandwidth  over  which  it  can  be  used  is  limited.  Figs.  7  and  8  show 
the  modulator  gain  as  a  function  of  x  for  input  frequencies  of  50,  70  and 
90  mc,  and  a  local  oscillator  frequency  of  11,200  mc.  These  curves  were 


1414       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    195G 
22 

20 
18 
16 
14 


'^  12 

ffl 
^  10 

LLI 
Q 

Z     8 
Z 
<      « 


-4 


■^ 

y 

50  UZy 

y 

-- 

^^" 

70 

/> 

-.^" 

^^^ 

--' 

'fo 

/ 

.'-- 

// 

r"^ 

/f  ^ 

/ 
// 

■V 

// 

/ 

'/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

0    -      2  4  6  a  10         12  14         16  18         20        22 

X 

Fig.  7  —  Gain  of  noninverting  modulator,  q/Gq  =  0.3. 

computed  using  values  of  y  which  make  qIG^  =  0.3  at  midband.  They 
are  thus  near  the  largest  gains  obtainable  for  a  given  value  of  x.  The 
matching  susceptances  were  assumed  to  be  a  single  inductance  or  capaci- 
tance connected  across  the  terminating  resistors.  Co/Ci  was  arbitrarily 
assumed  to  have  a  value  of  2.  The  procedure  used  was  to  compute  y, 
hi/ Go  ,  ho/ Go  and  the  maximum  available  gain  at  midband  using  (24), 
(25)  and  (26);  hi/Go  and  hi/Go  were  then  multiplied  by  the  appropriate 
frequency  ratio  to  obtain  the  terminating  susceptances  at  50  and  90  mc 
and  the  gain  at  these  frequencies  was  then  computed  using  (14). 

Figs.  7  and  8  show  that  with  the  simple  matching  susceptances  used, 
the  gain  variation  across  the  band  increases  as  the  gain  increases.  For 
the  same  midband  gain,  the  variation  in  the  inverting  case  is  somewhat 
greater  than  in  the  noninverting  case.  The  gain  is  thus  limited  by  the 
bandwidth  requirements . 

When  the  gain  at  50,  70  and  90  mc  is  calculated  using  larger  values 
of  g/Go  it  is  found  that  as  g/Go  increases  the  gain  variation  across  the 
band  decreases.  In  the  limit  the  least  variation  is  obtained  when  y  is 


FREQUENCY   CONVERSION   BY   A    NONLINEAR   ADMITTANCE 

24 
22 
20 
18 

16 


1415 


14 


^t2 
u 

LU 

Q 


10 


Z      8 
< 

(J 


2 
0 

-2 

-4 


./ 

y 

90 MC  ,/ 

yA            . 

^ 

/ 

:^ 

,-'-' 

y^ 

-y 

^-^ 

<o' 

/ 

V 

.-"' 

A 

/, 

,'-' 

y 

/ 

// 
A/" 

•  / 

t 

r 

// 

y 

/ 

6 
X 


10 


12 


Fig.  8  —  Gain  of  inverting  modulator,  glG^  =  0.3. 

zero.  When  the  midband  gain  is  15  db,  Figs.  7  and  8  show  that  the  gain 
variation  is  2.0  db  in  the  nonin verting  case  and  2.7  db  in  the  inverting 
case.  When  y  is  zero  these  variations  are  reduced  to  0.8  db  and  1.0  db 
respectively  for  the  same  midband  gain.  The  nonlinear  resistor  therefore 
degrades  the  performance  and,  assuming  complete  freedom  in  the  choice 
of  X,  a  greater  bandwidth  can  be  obtained  if  it  is  absent. 


PREFERRED    NONLINEAR   ELEMENTS 

Thus  we  see  that,  under  the  requirement  that  a  conjugate  match  exist 
at  the  terminals  of  the  4-pole,  the  nonlinear  resistor  contributes  little 
to  the  gain  of  a  nonlinear  capacitor  modulator  while  the  nonlinear  capaci- 
tor is  of  little  benefit  in  a  nonlinear  resistor  converter.  In  a  modulator 
having  appreciable  gain,  the  degree  of  nonlinearity  permissible  in  the 
nonlinear  resistor  is  quite  small.  For  gains  exceeding  15  db,  y  must  be 
less  than  0.2.  Such  a  nonlinear  resistor  used  alone  would  have  a  con- 


1416       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

version  loss  exceeding  20  db.  We  thus  find  that,  for  the  greatest  band- 
width, the  preferred  nonhnear  element  for  modulators  is  a  nonlinear; 
capacitor  while  the  preferred  nonlinear  element  for  converters  is  a  non-  ■ 
linear  resistor.  In  modulators,  the  nonlinear  capacitor  device  should ! 
have  as  little  resistance  as  possible,  so  that  an  external  resistor  could 
be  used  to  control  the  value  of  x.  It  could  be  connected  across  the  non- 
linear capacitor  or  across  the  input  and  output  terminals. 

CONCLUSIONS 

The  results  given  above  show  that  the  preferred  nonlinear  element 
for  use  in  modulators  is  a  pure  nonlinear  capacitor  while  the  preferred 
nonlinear  element  for  use  in  converters  is  a  pure  nonlinear  resistor.  By 
shunting  the  nonlinear  capacitor  or  the  terminals  of  a  nonlinear  capacitor 
modulator  with  an  appropriate  resistance,  an  impedance  match,  ade- 
quate bandwidth,  and  a  performance  superior  to  that  of  a  nonhnear 
resistor  modulator  can  be  obtained.  Nonlinear  capacitance  effects  are 
not  useful  in  converters  because  of  stability  and  bandwidth  limitations 
and  also  because  there  is  no  evidence  that  an  improved  noise  figure  would 
result  from  a  reduction  in  conversion  loss. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The  writer  is  indebted  to  H.  E.  Rowe  for  many  helpful  suggestions  in 
the  mathematical  analysis  and  to  R.  S.  Ohl  for  supplying  the  bombarded 
silicon  rectifiers  used  in  the  experiments  which  lead  to  the  ideas  presented 
here. 

REFERENCES 

1.  H.  C.  Torrey  and  C.  A.  Whitmer,  Crystal  Rectifiers,  15,  Radiation  Laboratory 

Series,  McGraw-Hill,  New  York,  1948,  Chapter  13. 

2.  L.  C.  Peterson  and  F.  B.  Llewellyn,  The  Performance  and  Measurement  of 

Mixers  in  Terms  of  Linear  Network  Theory,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  33,  July,  1945. 


Minimization  of  Boolean  Functions* 

E.  J.  McCLUSKEY,  Jr. 

(Manuscript  received  June  26,  1956) 

A  systematic  procedure  is  presented  for  writing  a  Boolean  function  as 
a  minimum  sum  of  products.  This  procedure  is  a  simplification  and  exten- 
sion of  the  method  presented  hy  W.  V.  Quine.  Specific  attention  is  given  to 
terms  which  can  be  included  in  the  function  solely  for  the  designer's  con- 
venience. 

1      INTRODUCTION 

In  designing  switching  circuits  such  as  digital  computers,  telephone 
central  offices,  and  digital  machine  tool  controls,  it  is  common  practice 
to  make  use  of  Boolean  algebra  notation.^-  2.3.4  'pj-^g  performance  of  a 
single-output  circuit  is  specified  by  means  of  a  Boolean  function  of  the 
input  variables.  This  function,  which  is  called  the  circuit  transmission, 
is  equal  to  1  when  an  output  is  present  and  equals  0  when  there  is  no 
output.  A  convenient  means  of  specifying  a  transmission  is  a  table  of 
combinations  such  as  that  given  in  Table  I.  This  table  lists,  in  the  column 
under  T,  the  output  condition  for  each  combination  of  input  conditions. 
If  there  are  some  combinations  of  input  conditions  for  which  the  output 
is  not  specified  (perhaps  because  these  combinations  can  never  occur), 
d-entries  are  placed  in  the  T-column  of  the  corresponding  rows  of  the 
table  of  combinations.  The  actual  values  (0  or  1)  assigned  to  these  rows 
are  usually  chosen  so  as  to  simplify  the  circuit  which  is  designed  to 
satisfy  the  requirements  specified  in  the  table  of  combinations. 

For  each  row  of  the  table  of  combinations  a  transmission  can  be  written 
which  equals  "one"  only  when  the  variables  have  the  values  listed  in 
that  row  of  the  table.  These  transmissions  will  be  called  elementary 
product  terms  (or  more  simply,  p-terms)  since  any  transmission  can 
always  be  written  as  a  sum  of  these  p-terms.  Table  I  (b)  lists  the  p-terms 
for  Table  1(a).  Note  that  every  variable  appears  in  each  p-term.  The 

*  This  paper  is  derived  from  a  thesis  submitted  to  the  Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the  requirements  for  the  degree  of  Doctor 
of  Science  on  April  30,  1956. 

1417 


Xi 

X2 

X3 

T 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

Xl 

X2 

X3 

Xi' 

X2' 

X3 

Xl' 

X2 

Xz' 

Xl' 

Xl 

X3 

Xl 

Xt' 

Xz' 

Xl 

a-2' 

Xz 

Xl 

Xi 

Xz' 

Xl 

X2 

Xz 

1418       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Table  I  —  Circuit  Specifications 
(a)  Table  of  Combinations  (b)  p-terms 

0 
1 
2 
3 

4 
5 
6 

7 

(c)  Canonical  Expansion 

T    =    Xx'Xt'Xz   +  Xi'XtXz     +  Xi'XtXz   +  XxXi'Xz'   +  XiXt'Xz   +  XiXiXz 

p-term  corresponding  to  a  given  row  of  a  table  of  combinations  is  formed 
by  priming  any  variables  which  have  a  "zero"  entry  in  that  row  of  the 
table  and  by  leaving  unprimed  those  variables  which  have  "one"  entries. 
It  is  possible  to  write  an  algebraic  expression  for  the  over-all  circuit 
transmission  directly  from  the  table  of  combinations.  This  over-all 
transmission,  T",  is  the  smn  of  the  p-terms  corresponding  to  those  rows 
of  the  table  of  combinations  for  which  T  is  to  have  the  value  "one." 
See  Table  1(c).  Any  transmission  which  is  a  sum  of  p-terms  is  called  a 
canonical  expansion. 

The  decimal  numbers  in  the  first  column  of  Table  1(a)  are  the  decimal 
equivalents  of  the  binary  numbers  formed  by  the  entries  of  the  table 
of  combinations.  A  concise  method  for  specifying  a  transmission  function 
is  to  list  the  decimal  numbers  of  those  rows  of  the  table  of  combinations 
for  which  the  function  is  to  have  the  value  one.  Thus  the  function  of 
Table  I  can  be  specified  as  ^(1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6). 

One  of  the  most  basic  problems  of  switching  circuit  theory  is  that  of 
writing  a  Boolean  function  in  a  simpler  form  than  the  canonical  expan- 
sion. It  is  frequently  possible  to  realize  savings  in  equipment  by  writing 
a  circuit  transmission  in  simplified  form.  Methods  for  expressing  a 
Boolean  function  in  the  "simplest"  sum  of  products  form  were  published 
by  Karnaugh,^  Aiken, ^  and  Quine.®  These  methods  have  the  common 
property  that  they  all  fail  when  the  function  to  be  simplified  is  reason- 
ably complex.  The  following  sections  present  a  method  for  simplifying 
functions  which  can  be  applied  to  more  complex  functions  than  previous 
methods,  is  systematic,  and  can  be  easily  programmed  on  a  digital  com- 
puter. 

2    the  minimum  sum 

By  use  of  the  Boolean  algebra  theorem  a;ia:;2  +  a;/a;2  =  Xo  it  is  possible 
to  obtain  from  the  canonical  expansion  other  equivalent  sum  functions; 


MINIMIZATION    OF   BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS  1419 

that  is,  other  sum  functions  which  correspond  to  the  same  table  of  com- 
binations. These  functions  are  still  siuiis  of  products  of  variables  but 
not  all  of  the  variables  appear  in  each  term.  For  example,  the  transmis- 
sion of  Table  1,  T  =  xix-Zx^  +  X1X2X3  +  XiXiX-s  +  aia-2'a;3'  -f  a-i.t;2'a;3  + 
.Tia;2.r3'  =  (xiXz'Xi  +  X1X2X5)  -f  (aTi'a;2a;3'  +  a-ia,-2i-3')  +  (a;i.r2'ar3'  +  .t-ia-2'a;3)  = 
(.ri'a:2'.i'3  +  X1X2X3)  +  (.<■/.^•2.^■3'  +  .r/.r2a;3)  +  (.-»ia;2'a;3'  +  a;i.T2a:;3')  can  be 
written  as  either  T  =  .r/.rs  +  .r2.r3'  +  xix-/  or  T  =  x^x^  -f  a;i'x2  +  XiX^' . 
A  literal  is  defined  as  a  variable  with  or  without  the  associated  prime 
{xi  ,  x-i  are  literals) .  The  sum  functions  which  have  the  fewest  terms  of 
all  equivalent  sum  functions  will  be  called  minimum  sums  unless  these 
functions  having  fewest  terms  do  not  all  involve  the  same  number  of 
literals.  In  such  cases,  only  those  functions  which  involve  the  fewest 
literals  will  be  called  minimum  sums.  For  example,  the  function 

T  =  E(7,  9,  10,  12,  13,  14,  15) 
can  be  written  as  either 

T  =  XiXoXi'  +  .r;i.r2.ri  +  .r4.r2'.ri  +  .r4.r3.r1' 

or  as 

T  =  Xi^XiXx    -f  .r3a-2.ri  +  Xi^ci'xx  +  Xi\,x% 

Only  the  second  expression  is  a  minimum  sum  since  it  involves  11  literals 
while  the  first  expression  involves  12  literals. 

The  minimum  sum  defined  here  is  not  necessarily  the  expression  con- 
taining the  fewest  total  literals,  or  the  expression  leading  to  the  most 
economical  two-stage  diode  logic  circuit,^  even  though  these  three  ex- 
pressions are  identical  for  many  transmissions.  The  definition  adopted 
here  lends  itself  well  to  computation  and  results  in  a  form  which  is  useful 
in  the  design  of  contact  networks.  A  method  is  presented  in  Section  9 
for  obtaining  directly  the  expressions  corresponding  to  the  optimum 
two-stage  diode  logic  circuit  or  the  e.xpressions  containing  fewest  literals. 

In  principle  it  is  possible  to  obtain  a  minimum  sum  for  any  given 
transmission  by  enumerating  all  possible  eciuivalent  sum  functions  then 
selecting  those  functions  which  have  the  fewest  terms,  and  finally  select- 
ing from  these  the  functions  which  contain  fewest  literals.  Since  the 
number  of  equivalent  sum  functions  may  be  c^uite  large,  this  procedure 
is  not  generally  practical.  The  following  sections  present  a  practical 
method  for  obtaining  a  ixiinimum  sum  without  resorting  to  an  enumera- 
tion of  all  eciuivalent  sum  functions. 

3      PRIME   IMPLICANTS 

When  the  theorem  XxXt  +  Xxx^  =  x\  is  used  to  replace  by  a  single 
term,  two  p-terms,  which  correspond  to  rows  i  and  j  of  a  table  of  combi- 


1420      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

nations,  the  resulting  term  will  equal  "one"  when  the  variables  have 
values  corresponding  to  either  row  i  or  row  j  of  the  table.  Similarly, 
when  this  theorem  is  used  to  replace,  by  a  single  term,  a  term  which 
equals  "one"  for  rows  i  and  j  and  a  term  which  equals  "one"  for  rows 
k  and  m,  the  resulting  term  will  equal  "one"  for  rows  i,  j,  k  and  m  of  the 
table  of  combinations.  A  method  for  obtaining  a  minimum  sum  by  re- 
peated application  of  this  theorem  (.Ti.r2'  +  .Ti.'C2  =  Xi)  was  first  pre- 
sented by  Quine.^  In  this  method,  the  theorem  is  applied  to  all  possible 
pairs  of  p-terms,  then  to  all  possible  pairs  of  the  terms  obtained  from 
the  p-terms,  and  so  on,  until  no  further  applications  of  the  theorem  are 
possible.  It  may  be  necessary  to  pair  one  term  with  several  other  terms 
in  applying  this  theorem.  In  Example  3.2  the  theorem  is  applied  to  the 
terms  labeled  5  and  7  and  also  to  the  terms  labeled  5  and  13.  All  terms 
paired  with  other  terms  in  applying  the  theorem  are  then  discarded.  The 
remaining  terms  are  called  prime  implicants.  Finally  a  minimum  sum  is 
formed  as  the  sum  of  the  fewest  prime  implicants  which  when  taken  to- 
gether will  equal  "one"  for  all  required  rows  of  the  table  of  combinations. 
The  terms  in  the  minimum  sum  will  be  called  minimum  sum  terms  or 
ms-terms. 


Example  3.1 

T  =  Z(3,  7,  8,  9,  12,  13) 
Canonical  Expansion: 
T  =  x/xi'xsXi  -{-  Xi'xiXsXi  +  a:ia;2'a^3  Xt   +  XyXz  Xs  Xi 


0  0  11 
3 


0  111 

7 


10  0  0 

8 


10  0   1 
9 


-f  a:ia;2a;3'a;4'  +  XiX^Xs'xi 


110  0 
12 


110   1 
13 


The  bracketed  binary  and  decimal  numbers  below  the  sum  terms  indi- 
cate the  rows  of  the  table  of  combinations  for  which  the  corresponding 
term  will  equal  "one."  A  binary  character  in  Avhich  a  dash  appears 
represents  the  two  binary  numbers  which  are  formed  by  replacing  the 
dash  by  a  "0"  and  then  by  a  "1."  Similarly  a  binary  character  in  which 
two  dashes  appear  represents  the  four  binary  numbers  formed  by  re- 
placing the  dashes  by  "0"  and  "1"  entries,  etc. 

a;i'a;2  x^Xi  +  xi  x^x^xt  =  xi    x^xt 


0  0  11 
3 


0 


1  1  1 

7 


"O-l  l1 
_    3,7   J 


MINIMIZATION    OF   BOOLEAN   FUNCTIONS 


1421 


XxX-lxzxl   +  X\X2XzXi    =   .T1.T2  X3 


10  0  0 

8 


"10  0  1' 
9 


X1X2X3  Xi     +     0:1X2X3  X4    =    XiXzXz 

[1100]    fl  10  1I    [110-1 
L     12     J     L     13     J     L  12,13  J 

XiXiXz        +       ^1X2X3         =       Xi     Xz 

[10  0-1    [110-1    [1-0 

L    8,9     J     L  12,13  J     [8,9,12 


.12,13 


Prime  Implicants; 


X\    Xz , 

1-0  - 
_8,9,r2,13_ 


Xi     XzXi 

"0- 
3 


-111 

:,7   J 


Minimum  Sum; 
Example  3.2 


T   =   XiXz     +  XiXzXi 

T  =  2:(5,  7,  12,  13) 


Canonical  Expansion: 

T  =  x(xix{xi^  +  xlx-iXzXi^  +  X\XiXzxl  +  X\XiXz  a;4 


0' 


[0  10  1I    [0  1  1  1I    [110 
L      5      J    L      7      J    [     12 

X-lxixixii,  +  XxXiXzXi    =   X\  Xi     Xi 
XiXiXzXi  +  XiXiXzXi      =      .T2.T3  Xi 

'110  01     [110   1I   [110  -1 
_     12     J     L     13     J    L  12,13  J 


110   1 
13 


Prime  Implicants: 


Xi  X2     Xi  , 


x^xz  Xi ,        Xia:2X3 


[0  1  -  1I     [- 1  0  1I      [110-1 
L    5,7    J     L  5,13   J       L  12,13  J 


1422       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Minimum  Sum: 

T  =  Xi'xzXi  +  xiXipcz 

« 

Quine's  method,  as  illustrated  in  Examples  3.1  and  3.2,  becomes 
unwieldly  for  transmissions  involving  either  many  variables  or  many 
p-terms.  This  difficulty  is  overcome  by  simplifying  the  notation  and 
making  the  procedure  more  systematic.  The  notation  is  simplified  by 
discarding  the  expressions  invoh'ing  literals  and  using  only  the  binarj^ 
characters.  This  is  permissible  because  the  expressions  in  terms  of  literals 
can  always  be  regained  from  the  binary  characters.  The  theorem  being 
used  to  combine  terms  can  be  stated  in  terms  of  the  binary  characters 
as  follows:  If  two  binary  characters  are  identical  in  all  positions  except 
one,  and  if  neither  character  has  a  dash  in  the  position  in  w^hich  they 
differ,  then  the  two  characters  can  be  replaced  by  a  single  character 
which  has  a  dash  in  the  position  in  which  the  original  characters  differ 
and  which  is  identical  with  the  original  characters  in  all  other  positions. 

Table  II  —  Determination  of  Prime  Implicants  for  Transmission 
T  =  X)  (0>  2,  4,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11,  12,  13,  14,  16,  18,  19,  29,  30) 
(a)     I  (b)     II  (c)     III 

XiXiXzX-iXi  X^XiXzX-iXi  X^XiXzXiXi 

02  OOO-OV  0246  00--0V 

04  00-00\/  028  10  O-O-OV 

08  0-OOOV  02  16  18  -00-0 

0  16  -OOOOa/  048  12  0--00V 


0 

0  0  0  0  0  V 

2 

4 

8 

16 

0  0  0  1  0  v 

0  0  1  0  0  V 

0  1  0  0  0  V 

1  0  0  0  0  a/ 

6 
10 
12 
18 

0  0  1  1  0  V 
0  1  0  1  0  v 

0  1  1  0  0  V 

1  0  0  1  0  V 

4  12  0  -  1  0  0  V 

8  10  0  1  0  -  0  v 

8  12  0  1  -  0  0  V 

7        OOlllV  16  18  100-OV 

11        0  1  0  1  1  V  

13  01101a/  67  0011- 

14  01110a/              6  14  0-llOv/ 
19        10  0  11a/            10  U  O  1  O  1  - 
10  14  0  1  -  1  O  V 

29  1  1  1  0  1  V  12  13  0  110- 

30  11110a/  12  14  0  1  1  -  0  V 


26  00-lOV  26  10  14  O-'lOV 

2  10  0-010a/  46  12  14  0-1-OV 

2  18  -0010a/  8  10  12  14  01--0\/ 

4    6  0  0  1  -  0  V 


18  19 

10  0  1- 

13  29 

14  30 

-  1  1  0  1 

-  1  1  1  0 

(d)    IV 

XfiXiXzXiXl. 

02468  10  12  14  0 0 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN   FUNCTIONS  1423 

The  first  step  in  the  revised  method  for  determining  prime  implicants 
is  to  list  in  a  column,  such  as  that  shown  in  Table  11(a),  the  binary 
equivalents  of  the  decimal  numbers  which  specify  the  function.  It  is 
expedient  to  order  these  binary  numbers  so  that  any  numbers  which 
contain  no  I's  come  first,  followed  by  any  numbers  containing  a  single 
1,  etc.  Lines  should  be  drawn  to  divide  the  column  into  groups  of  binary 
numbers  which  contain  a  given  number  of  I's.  The  theorem  stated  above 
is  applied  to  these  binary  numbers  by  comparing  each  number  with  all 
the  numbers  of  the  next  lower  group.  Other  pairs  of  numbers  need  not 
be  considered  since  any  two  numbers  which  are  not  from  adjacent  groups 
must  differ  in  more  than  one  binary  digit.  For  each  number  w^hich  has 
I's  wherever  the  number  (from  the  next  upper  group)  with  which  it  is 
being  compared  has  I's,  a  new  character  is  formed  according  to  the 
theorem.  A  check  mark  is  placed  next  to  each  number  which  is  used  in 
forming  a  new  character.  The  new  characters  are  placed  in  a  separate 
column,  such  as  Table  11(b),  which  is  again  divided  into  groups  of  char- 
acters which  have  the  same  number  of  I's.  The  characters  in  this  new 
column  will  each  contain  one  dash. 

After  each  number  in  the  first  column  has  been  considered,  a  similar 
process  is  carried  out  for  the  characters  of  column  two.  Two  characters 
from  adjacent  groups  can  be  combined  if  they  both  have  their  dashes 
ill  the  same  position  and  if  the  character  from  the  lower  group  has  I's 
wherever  the  upper  character  has  I's.  If  any  combinations  are  possible 
the  resulting  characters  are  placed  in  a  third  column  such  as  Table  11(c), 
and  the  Column  II  characters  from  which  the  new  characters  are  formed 
are  checked.  All  the  characters  in  this  third  column  will  have  two  dashes. 
This  procedure  is  repeated  and  new  columns  are  formed,  Table  11(d), 
until  no  further  combinations  are  possible.  The  unchecked  characters, 
which  have  not  entered  into  any  combinations,  represent  the  prime 
implicants. 

Each  binary  character  is  labeled  with  the  decimal  equivalents  of  the 
binary  numbers  which  it  represents  (see  note  in  Example  3.1).  These 
decimal  numbers  are  arranged  in  increasing  arithmetic  order.  For  a 
character  having  one  dash  this  corresponds  to  the  order  of  its  formation : 
When  two  binary  numbers  combine,  the  second  number  always  contains 
all  the  i's  of  the  first  number  and  one  additional  1  so  that  the  second 
number  is  always  greater  than  the  first.  Characters  having  two  dashes 
can  be  formed  in  two  ways.  For  example,  the  character  (0,  2,  4,  6)  can 
be  formed  either  by  combining  (0,  2)  and  (4,  6)  or  by  combining  (0,  4) 
and  (2,  6)  as  given  in  Table  III.  Similarly,  there  are  three  ways  in  which 
a  character  having  three  dashes  can  be  formed  (in  Table  II  the  0,  2,  4, 


1424       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Table  III  —  Example  of  the  Two  Ways  of  Forming 
A  Character  Having  Two  Dashes 


0 

0  0  0  0 

2 

4 

0  0  10 
0  10  0 

0  2 
0  4 

0  0-0 
0-00 

0  2  4  6 
(0426 

0  - 
0  - 

-  0 
-0) 

2  6 
4  6 

0-10 
0  1-0 

0  110 


6,  8,  10,  12,  14  character  can  be  formed  from  theO,  2,  4,  6,  and  8,  10,  12, 
14  characters  or  the  0,  2,  8,  10,  and  4,  6,  12,  14  characters  or  the  0,  4,  8, 
12  and  2,  6,  10,  14  characters),  four  ways  in  which  a  character  having 
four  dashes  can  be  formed,  etc. 

In  general,  any  character  can  be  formed  by  combining  two  characters 
whose  labels  form  an  increasing  sequence  of  decimal  numbers  when 
placed  together.  It  is  possible  to  shorten  the  process  of  determining 
prime  implicants  by  not  considering  the  combination  of  any  characters 
whose  labels  do  not  satisfy  this  requirement.  For  example,  in  Table 
11(b)  the  possibility  of  combining  the  (0,  4)  character  with  either  the 
(2,  6),  (2,  10)  or  the  (2,  18)  character  need  not  be  considered.  If  the 
process  is  so  shortened,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  place  check  marks  next  to 
the  two  characters  from  which  a  new  character  is  formed;  each  member 
of  all  pairs  of  characters  which  would  produce  the  same  new  character 
w^hen  combined  must  also  receive  check  marks.  More  simply,  when  a 
new  character  is  formed  a  check  mark  is  placed  next  to  all  characters 
whose  labels  contain  only  decimal  numbers  which  occur  in  the  label  of 
the  new  character.  In  Table  II,  when  the  (0,  2,  4,  6)  character  is  formed 
by  combining  the  (0,  2)  and  (4,  6)  characters,  check  marks  must  be 
placed  next  to  the  (0,  4)  and  (2,  6)  characters  as  well  as  the  (0,  2)  and 
(4,  6)  characters.  If  the  process  is  not  shortened  as  just  described,  the 
fact  that  a  character  can  be  formed  in  several  ways  can  serve  as  a  check 
on  the  accuracy  of  the  process. 

It  is  possible  to  carry  out  the  entire  process  of  determining  the  prime 
implicants  solely  in  terms  of  the  decimal  labels  without  actually  writing 
the  binary  characters.  If  two  binary  characters  can  be  combined  as  de- 
scribed in  this  section,  then  the  decimal  label  of  one  can  be  obtained 
from  the  decimal  label  of  the  other  character  by  adding  some  power  of 
two  (corresponding  to  the  position  in  which  the  two  characters  differ) 
to  each  number  in  the  character's  label.  For  example,  in  Table  lib  the 
label  of  the  (4,  G)  (0  0  1  -  0)  character  can  be  obtained  by  adding  4  =  (2^) 
to  the  numbers  of  the  label  of  the  (0,  2)  (0  0  0  -  0)  character.  By  searching 
for  decimal  labels  which  differ  by  a  power  of  two,  instead  of  binary  char- 
acters which  differ  in  only  one  position,  the  prime  implicants  can  be 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN   FUNCTIONS  1425 

determined  as  described  above  without  ever  actually  writing  the  binary 
characters. 

4      PRIME   IMPLICANT   TABLES 

The  minimum  sum  is  formed  by  picking  the  fewest  prime  imphcants 
whose  sum  will  equal  one  for  all  rows  of  the  table  of  combinations  for 
which  the  transmission  is  to  equal  one.  In  terms  of  the  characters  used 
in  Section  3  this  means  that  each  number  in  the  decimal  specification 
of  the  function  must  appear  in  the  label  of  at  least  one  character  which 
corresponds  to  a  ms-term  (term  of  the  minimum  sum). 

The  ms-terms  are  selected  from  the  prime  implicants  by  means  of  a 
prime  implicant  table,*  Table  IV.  Each  column  of  the  prime  implicant 
table  corresponds  to  a  row  of  the  table  of  combinations  for  which  the 
transmission  is  to  have  the  value  one.  The  decimal  number  at  the  top  of 
each  column  specifies  the  corresponding  row  of  the  table  of  combinations. 
Thus  the  numbers  which  appear  at  the  tops  of  the  columns  are  the  same 
as  those  which  specify  the  transmission.  Each  row  of  the  prime  implicant 
table  represents  a  prime  implicant.  If  a  prime  implicant  equals  "one"  for 
a  given  row  of  the  table  of  combinations,  a  cross  is  placed  at  the  inter- 
section of  the  corresponding  row  and  column  of  the  prime  implicant 
table.  All  other  positions  are  left  blank.  The  table  can  be  written  directly 
from  the  characters  obtained  in  Section  3  by  identifying  each  row  of  the 
table  with  a  character  and  then  placing  a  cross  in  each  column  whose 
number  appears  in  the  label  of  the  character. 

It  is  convenient  to  arrange  the  rows  in  the  order  of  the  number  of 
crosses  they  contain,  with  those  rows  containing  the  most  crosses  at  the 
top  of  the  table.  Also,  horizontal  lines  should  be  drawn  partitioning  the 
table  into  groups  of  rows  which  contain  the  same  number  of  crosses, 
Table  IV.  If,  in  selecting  the  rows  which  are  to  correspond  to  ms-terms, 
a  choice  between  two  equally  appropriate  rows  is  required,  the  row  hav- 
ing more  crosses  should  be  selected.  The  row  with  more  crosses  has 
fewer  literals  in  the  corresponding  prime  implicant.  This  choice  is  more 
obvious  when  the  table  is  partitioned  as  suggested  above. 

A  minimum  sum  is  determined  from  the  prime  implicant  table  by 
selecting  the  fewest  rows  such  that  each  column  has  a  cross  in  at  least 
one  selected  row.  The  selected  rows  are  called  basis  roivs,  and  the  prime 
implicants  corresponding  to  the  basis  rows  are  the  ms-terms.  If  any 
column  has  only  one  entry,  the  row  in  which  this  entry  occurs  must  be  a 
basis  row.  Therefore  the  fir.st  step  in  selecting  the  basis  rows  is  to  place 

*  This  table  was  first  discussed  by  Quine."'  However,  no  sj'stematic  procedure 
for  obtaining  a  minimum  sum  from  the  prime  implicant  table  was  presented. 


1426       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  IV  —  Prime  Implicant  Table  for  the 

Transmission  of  Table  II 
0    2    4    8     16    6     10     12    18    7     11     13     14    19    29    30 


B 

C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
H 


X      X      X      X 


X      X 


XXX 


X  X 

X  X 

X 
X 


an  asterisk  next  to  each  row  which  contains  the  sole  entry  of  any  cohmm 
(rows  A,  B,  C,  D,  E,  G,  H,  in  Table  IV).  A  line  is  then  drawn  through  all 
rows  marked  with  an  asterisk  and  through  all  columns  in  which  these 
rows  have  entries.  This  is  done  because  the  requirement  that  these  col- 
umns have  entries  in  at  least  one  basis  row  is  satisfied  by  selecting  the 
rows  marked  with  an  asterisk  as  basis  rows.  When  this  is  done  for 
Table  IV,  all  columns  are  lined  out  and  therefore  the  rows  marked  with 
asterisks  are  the  basis  rows  for  this  table.  Since  no  alternative  choice  of 
basis  rows  is  possible,  there  is  only  one  minimum  sum  for  the  transmis- 
sion described  in  this  table. 


5      ROW   covering 

In  general,  after  the  appropriate  rows  have  been  marked  with  asterisks 
and  the  corresponding  columns  have  been  lined  out,  there  may  remain 
some  columns  which  are  not  lined  out;  for  example,  column  7  in 
Table  V(b).  When  this  happens,  additional  rows  must  be  selected  and 
the  columns  in  which  these  rows  have  entries  must  be  lined  out  until 
all  columns  of  the  table  are  lined  out.  For  Table  V(b),  the  selection  of 
either  row  B  or  row  F  as  a  basis  row  will  cause  column  7  to  be  lined  out. 
However,  row  B  is  the  correct  choice  since  it  has  more  crosses  than  row 
F.  This  is  an  example  of  the  situation  which  was  described  earlier  in 
connection  with  the  partitioning  of  prime  implicant  tables.  Row  B  is 
marked  with  two  asterisks  to  indicate  that  it  is  a  basis  row  even  though 
it  does  not  contain  the  sole  entry  of  any  column. 

The  choice  of  basis  rows  to  supplement  the  single  asterisk  rows  be- 
comes more  complicated  when  several  columns  (such  as  columns  2,  3, 
and  6  in  Table  VI (a))  remain  to  be  lined  out.  The  first  step  in  choosing 
these  supplementary  basis  rows  is  to  determine  whether  any  pairs  of 
rows  exist  such  that  one  row  has  crosses  only  in  columns  in  which  the 


MINIMIZATION    OF   BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS 


1427 


31 


Table  V  —  Determination  of  the  Minimum  Sum  for 

5"  =  E  (0.  1.  2,  3,  7,  14,  15,  22,  23,  29,  31) 
(a)  Determination  of  Prime  Implicants 


0  0  0  0  0  V 


1 

2 

0  0  0  0  1  v/ 
0  0  0  1  0  >/ 

3 

0  0  0  1  1  V 

7 
14 
22 

0  0  1   1   1  v/ 

0  1  1  1  0  v/ 

1  0  1  1  0  V 

15 
23 
29 

0  1  1  1  1  >/ 

1  0  1  1  1  v/ 
1  1  1  0  1  V 

0 
0 


1 

2 


X5X4X3X2X1 

X5X4X3X2X1 

0  0  0  0  -  v 
0  0  0  -  0  v 

0     12    3 
7  15  23  31 

0  0  0  -  - 

--111 

1  3 

2  3 

0  0  0  -  1  V 
0  0  0  1  -  v 

3     7 

0  0-11 

1  1  1  1  1  >/ 


7  15 

0  -  1  1  1  V 

7  23 

-  0  1  1  1  V 

14  15 

0  111- 

22  23 

10  11- 

15  31 

-  1  1  1  1  V 

23  31 

1  -  1  1  1  V 

29  31 

111-1 

(b)  First  Step  in  Selection  of  Basis  Rows 
1        2        3        7       14        22        15        23         29      31 


A 
B 

C 
D 
E 
F 


1       1 

i : 

X 

i 

c 

: 

I 

^ 

If 

n 

■% 

r 

1 

t 

X 

* 
* 


(c)  Minimum  Sum 
r  =  2  ((0,  1,  2,  3),  (7,  15,  23,  31),  (29,  31),  (22,  23),  (14,  15)] 

T   —    Xi'XtXi     +  X3X2X1  +  X6X4X3X1  +  X6X4'X3X2  +  X6'X4X3X2 


other  member  of  the  pair  has  crosses.  Crosses  in  Hned-out  cohimns  are 
not  considered.  In  Table  VI (a),  rows  A  and  B  and  rows  B  and  C  are 
such  pairs  of  rows  since  row  B  has  crosses  in  columns  2,  3,  and  6  and  row 
A  has  a  cross  in  column  6  and  row  C  has  crosses  in  columns  2  and  3.  A 
convenient  way  to  describe  this  situation  is  to  say  that  row  B  covers 
rows  A  and  C,  and  to  write  B3A,BZ)C.If  row  i  is  selected  as  a  sup- 
plementary basis  row  and  row  i  is  covered  by  row  j ,  which  has  the  same 
total  number  of  crosses  as  row  i,  then  it  is  possible  to  choose  row  j  as  a 
basis  row  instead  of  row  i  since  row  j  has  a  cross  in  each  column  in  which 
row  i  has  a  cross. 

The  next  step  is  to  hne  out  any  rows  which  are  covered  by  other  rows 
in  the  same  partition  of  the  table,  rows  A  and  C  in  Table  VI (a).  If  any 


1428  THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    195G 


Table  VI  —  Prime  Implicant  Tables  for 

7"  =  Z  (0.  1»  2,  3,  6,  7,  14,  22,  30,  33,  62,  64,  71,  78,  86) 

(a)  Prime  Implicant  Table  with  Single  Asterisk  Rows  and 

Corresponding  Columns  Lined  Out 

0     1     2    64     3    6    33    7    14     22    30    71     78    86    62 


!i 


A 
B 
C 

D 
E 
F 
G 
H 
I 


A 
B 
C 

D 
E 
F 
G 
H 
I 


■ 

c    : 

X 

:    X 

X 
X      X 
X 

1       1       1 

XXX 
X 

1 

V 

V 

Y          1 

1 

* 

^ 

r 

1 

3 

C 

X 

1 

■^ 

r 

^ 

r 

1 

1 

(b)  Prime  Implicant  Table  with  Rows  which  are  Covered 
by  Other  Rows  Lined  Out 


0    1 

2    64    3    6    33     / 

'    14    22    30    71     78    86    62 

\ 

1       1 

y           V 

1 

f        ■> 

X 

X      X 

V 

J 

c 

^ 

: 

c 

1 , 

column  now  contains  only  one  cross  which  is  not  lined  out,  columns  2 
3,  and  6  in  Table  VI (b),  two  asterisks  are  placed  next  to  the  row 
in  which  this  cross  occurs,  row  B  in  Table  VI  (b),  and  this  row  and  all 
columns  in  which  this  row  has  crosses  are  lined  out.  The  process  of  draw- 
ing a  line  through  any  row  which  is  covered  by  another  row  and  selecting 
each  row  which  contains  the  only  cross  in  a  column  is  continued  until  it 
terminates.  Either  all  columns  will  be  lined  out,  in  which  case  the  rows 
marked  with  one  or  two  asterisks  are  the  basis  rows,  or  each  column  will 
contain  more  than  one  cross  and  no  row  will  cover  another  row.  The 
latter  situation  is  discussed  in  the  following  section. 


6      PRIME  implicant  TABLES  IN  CYCLIC  FORM 

If  the  rows  and  columns  of  a  table  which  are  not  lined  out  are  such  that 
every  column  has  more  than  one  cross  and  no  row  covers  another  row,  as 
in  Table  VI  1(b),  the  table  will  be  said  to  be  in  cyclic  form,  or,  in  short. 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS 


1429 


Table  VII  —  Determination  of  Basis  Rows  for  a 
Cyclic  Prime  Implicant  Table 


'a)  Selection  of  Single  Asterisk  Rows 
0  4 16  12  24  19  28  27  29  31 


A. 
B 

C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
H 


(c)  Selection  of  Row  1  as  a  Trial  Basis 
Row  (Column  0) 


X   X 
X         X 
X  X 

X  X 

X                       X 
X               X 
X X 

X      I      X 

X  X 

X      X 


0  4 16  12  24  19  28  27  29  31 


A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

J 


1 

r 

y-L, 

y 

*n 

— 

1 

V 

I 

X 

I 

r                  1 

LT 

^ 



■      X 

' 

t       1 

' 

** 
** 


(b)  Selection  of  Double  Asterisk  Rows 
0  4 16  12  24  19  28  27  29  31 


A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

J 


(d)  Selection  of  Row  2  as  a  Trial  Basis 
Row  (Column  0) 


X    X 
X         X 
X            X 
X               X 

X                       X 
X                X 

V                               V 

' 

-''    1 

'    1 

1 

1    1 

0  4 16  12  24  19  28  27  29  31 


A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

J 


1  1 

r^ 

\ 

"  1  ' 

y 

, 

^ 

'     I        ' 

^ 

: 

■J 

c 

■( 

c 

. 

'^ 

1       y       I 

1 

* 


to  be  cyclic.  If  any  column  has  crosses  in  only  two  rows,  at  least  one  of 
these  rows  must  be  included  in  any  set  of  basis  rows.  Therefore,  the 
basis  rows  for  a  cyclic  table  can  be  discovered  by  first  determining 
whether  any  column  contains  only  two  crosses,  and  if  such  a  column 
exists,  by  then  selecting  as  a  trial  basis  row  one  of  the  rows  in  which  the 
crosses  of  this  column  occur.  If  no  column  contains  only  two  crosses, 
then  a  column  which  contains  three  crosses  is  selected,  etc.  All  columns 
in  which  the  trial  basis  row  has  crosses  are  lined  out  and  the  process  of 
lining  out  rows  which  are  covered  by  other  rows  and  selecting  each  row 
which  contains  the  only  cross  of  some  column  is  carried  out  as  described 
above.  Either  all  columns  will  be  lined  out  or  another  cyclic  table  will 
result.  Whenever  a  cyclic  table  occurs,  another  trial  row  must  be  se- 
lected. Eventually  all  columns  will  be  lined  out.  However,  there  is  no 
guarantee  that  the  selected  rows  are  actually  basis  rows.  The  possibility 
exists  that  a  different  choice  of  trial  rows  would  have  resulted  in  fewer 
selected  rows.  In  general,  it  is  necessary  to  carry  out  the  procedure  of 
selecting  rows  several  times,  choosing  different  trial  rows  each  time,  so 


1430       THE    BELL    SYSTEM    TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


CT 


0 


that  all  possible  combinations  of  trial  rows  are  considered.  The  set  of 
fewest  selected  rows  is  the  actual  set  of  basis  rows.  '|  \\ 

Table  VII  illustrates  the  process  of  determining  basis  rows  for  a 
cyclic  prime  implicant  table.  After  rows  G  and  J  have  been  selected  u|  |et( 
cyclic  table  results,  Table  VII  (b).  Rows  A  and  B  are  then  chosen  as  al 
pair  of  trial  basis  rows  since  column  0  has  crosses  in  only  these  two  rows. , 
The  selection  of  row  A  leads  to  the  selection  of  rows  D  and  E  as  given  in ; 
Table  VII (c).  Row  A  is  marked  with  three  asterisks  to  indicate  that  it 
is  a  trial  basis  row.  Table  VII (d)  illustrates  the  fact  that  the  selection! 
of  rows  C  and  F  is  brought  about  by  the  selection  of  row  B.  Since  bothi 
sets  of  selected  rows  have  the  same  number  of  rows  (5)  they  are  both 
sets  of  basis  rows.  Each  set  of  basis  rows  corresponds  to  a  different  min- 
imum sum  so  that  there  are  two  minimum  sums  for  this  function. 

Sometimes  it  is  not  necessary  to  determine  all  minimum  sums 
for  the  transmission  being  considered.  In  such  cases,  it  may  be  possible 
to  shorten  the  process  of  determining  basis  rows.  Since  each  column 
must  have  a  cross  in  some  basis  row,  the  total  number  of  crosses  in  all 
of  the  basis  rows  is  equal  to  or  greater  than  the  number  of  columns. 
Therefore,  the  number  of  columns  divided  by  the  greatest  number  of 
crosses  in  any  row  (or  the  next  highest  integer  if  this  ratio  is  not  an 
integer)  is  equal  to  the  fewest  possible  basis  rows.  For  example,  in  Table 
VII  there  are  ten  columns  and  two  crosses  in  each  row.  Therefore, 
there  must  be  at  least  10  divided  by  2  or  5  rows  in  any  set  of  basis  rows. 
The  fact  that  there  are  only  five  rows  selected  in  Table  VII (c)  guaran- 
tees that  the  selected  rows  are  basis  rows  and  therefore  Table  VII  (d)  is 
unnecessary  if  only  one  minimum  sum  is  required.  In  general,  the  process 
of  trying  different  combinations  of  trial  rows  can  be  stopped  as  soon  as 
a  set  of  selected  rows  which  contains  the  fewest  possible  number  of  basis 
rows  has  been  found  (providing  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  discover  all 
minimum  sums) .  It  should  be  pointed  out  that  more  than  the  minimum 
number  of  basis  rows  may  be  required  in  some  cases  and  in  these 
cases  all  combinations  of  trial  rows  must  be  considered.  A  more  accurate 
lower  bound  on  the  number  of  basis  rows  can  be  obtained  by  considering 
the  number  of  rows  which  have  the  most  crosses.  For  example,  in  Table 
VI  there  are  15  columns  and  4  crosses,  at  most,  in  any  row.  A  lower 
bound  of  4  {—-  =  3f )  is  a  little  too  optimistic  since  there  are  only  three 
rows  which  contain  four  crosses.  A  more  realistic  lower  bound  of  5  is 
obtained  by  noting  that  the  rows  which  have  4  crosses  can  provide  crosses 
in  at  most  12  columns  and  that  at  least  two  additional  rows  containing 
two  crosses  are  necessary  to  provide  crosses  in  the  three  remaining  col- 
umns. 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS  1431 

CYCLIC    PRIME   IMPLICANT   TABLES   AND    GROUP   INVARIANCE 

It  is  not  always  necessary  to  resort  to  enumeration  in  order  to  deter- 

ne  all  minimum  sums  for  a  cyclic  prime  implicant  table.  Often 
here  is  a  simple  relation  among  the  various  minimum  sums  for  a  trans- 
nission  so  that  they  can  all  be  determined  directly  from  any  single 
ninimum  sum  by  simple  interchanges  of  variables.  The  process  of  select- 
ng  basis  rows  for  a  cyclic  table  can  be  shortened  by  detecting  before- 
aand  that  the  minimum  sums  are  so  related. 

An  example  of  a  transmission  for  which  this  is  true  is  given  in  Table 
VIII.  If  the  variables  a'l  and  x-2  are  interchanged,  one  of  the  minimum 
sums  is  changed  into  the  other.  In  the  prime  implicant  table  the  inter- 
change of  Xi  and  Xz  leads  to  the  interchange  of  columns  1  and  2,  5  and  6, 
9  and  10,  13  and  14,  and  rows  A  and  B,  C  and  D,  E  and  F,  G  and  H. 
The  transmission  itself  remains  the  same  after  the  interchange. 

In  determining  the  basis  rows  for  the  prime  imphcant  table,  Table 
VIII  (d),  either  row  G  or  row  H  can  be  chosen  as  a  trial  basis  row.  If  row 
G  is  selected  the  i-set  of  basis  rows  will  result  and  if  row  H  is  selected 
the  ii-set  of  basis  rows  will  result.  It  is  unnecessary  to  carry  out  the 
procedure  of  determining  both  sets  of  basis  rows.  Once  the  i-set  of  basis 
rows  is  known,  the  ii-set  can  be  determined  directly  by  interchanging 
the  Xi  and  X2  variables  in  the  i-set.  Thus  no  enumeration  is  necessary  in 
order  to  determine  all  minimum  sums. 

In  general,  the  procedure  for  a  complex  prime  implicant  table  is  to 
determine  whether  there  are  any  pairs  of  variables  which  can  be  inter- 
changed without  effecting  the  transmission.  If  such  pairs  of  variables 
exist,  the  corresponding  interchanges  of  pairs  of  rows  are  determined. 
A  trial  basis  row  is  then  selected  from  a  pair  of  rows  which  contain  the 
only  two  crosses  of  a  column  and  which  are  interchanged  when  the  varia- 
bles are  permuted.  After  the  set  of  basis  rows  has  been  determined,  the 
other  set  of  basis  rows  can  be  obtained  by  replacing  each  basis  row  by 
the  row  with  which  it  is  interchanged  w^hen  variables  are  permuted.  If 
any  step  of  this  procedure  is  not  possible,  it  is  necessary  to  resort  to 
enumeration. 

In  the  preceding  discussion  only  simple  interchanges  of  variables  have 
been  mentioned.  Actually  all  possible  permutations  of  the  contact  varia- 
bles should  be  considered.  It  is  also  possible  that  priming  variables  or 
both  priming  and  permuting  them  will  leave  the  transmission  unchanged. 
For  example,  ii  T  =  Xi  Xs  Xo  Xi  +  x/  Xs  x-/  xi  ,  priming  all  the  variables 
leaves  the  function  unchanged.  Also,  priming  Xi  and  x^  and  then  inter- 
changing X4  and  x^  does  not  change  the  transmission.  The  general  name 
for  this  property  is  group  invariance.  This  was  discussed  by  Shannon.^ 


1432       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

A  method  for  determining  the  group  invariance  for  a  specified  trans^ 
mission  is  presented  in  "Detection  of  Group  Invariance  or  Total  Sym; 
metry  of  a  Boolean  Function."* 

8      AN    APPROXIMATE    SOLUTION    FOR    CYCLIC    PRIME    IMPLICANT    TABLES 

It  has  not  been  possible  to  prove  in  general  that  the  procedure  pre 
sented  in  this  section  will  always  result  in  a  minimum  sum.  However, 
this  procedure  should  be  useful  when  a  reasonable  approximation  to  a 
minimum  sum  is  sufficient,  or  when  it  is  possible  to  devise  a  proof  to! 
show  that  the  procedure  does  lead  to  a  minimum  sum  for  a  specific  trans- 
mission (such  proofs  were  discussed  in  Section  6).  Since  this  procedure 
is  much  simpler  than  enumeration,  it  should  generally  be  tested  beforef 
resorting  to  enumeration. 

The  first  step  of  the  procedure  is  to  select  from  the  prime  implicant 
table  a  set  of  rows  such  that  (1)  in  each  column  of  the  table  there  is  a 
cross  from  at  least  one  of  the  selected  rows  and  (2)  none  of  the  selected 
rows  can  be  discarded  without  destroying  property  (1).  Any  set  of  rows 
having  these  properties  will  be  called  a  consistent  row  set.  Each  consistent 
row  set  corresponds  to  a  sum  of  products  expression  from  which  no 
product  term  can  be  eliminated  directly  by  any  of  the  theorems  of 
Boolean  Algebra.  In  particular,  the  consistent  row  sets  having  the  fewest 
members  correspond  to  minimum  sums.  The  first  step  of  the  procedure 
to  be  described  here  is  to  select  a  consistent  row-set.  This  is  done  by 
choosing  one  of  the  columns,  counting  the  total  number  of  crosses  in  each 
row  which  has  a  cross  in  this  column,  and  then  selecting  the  row  with 
the  most  crosses.  If  there  is  more  than  one  such  row,  the  topmost  row  is 
arbitrarily  selected.  The  selected  row  is  marked  with  a  check.  In  Table 
IX,  column  30  was  chosen  and  then  row  A  was  selected  since  rows  A  and 
Z  each  have  a  cross  in  column  30,  but  row  A  has  4  crosses  while  row  Z 
has  only  2  crosses.  The  selected  row  and  each  column  in  which  it  has  a 
cross  is  then  lined  out.  The  process  just  described  is  repeated  by  selecting 
another  column  (which  is  not  lined  out).  Crosses  in  lined-out  columns 
are  not  counted  in  determining  the  total  number  of  crosses  in  a  row.  The 
procedure  is  repeated  until  all  columns  are  lined  out. 

The  table  is  now  rearranged  so  that  all  of  the  selected  rows  are  at  the 
top,  and  a  line  is  drawn  to  separate  the  selected  rows  from  the  rest. 
Table  X  results  from  always  choosing  the  rightmost  column  in  Table 
IX.  If  any  column  contains  only  one  cross  from  a  selected  row,  the  single 
selected-row  cross  is  circled.  Any  selected  row  which  does  not  have  any 


See  page  1445  of  this  issue. 


MINIMIZATION    OF   BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS 


1433 


Table  VIII  —  Determination  of  the  Minimum  Sums  for 

T  =  J2iO,  1,  2,  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  11,  13,  14,  15) 

(a)  (c) 

0:4X3X2X1 


f  0 

0  0  0  0  V 

'  1 

2 

0  0  0  1  v 

0  0  1  0  v 

,   5 
6 
9 

■  10 

0  1  0  1  V 

0  1  1  0  V 

1  0  0  1  V 
1  0  1  0  V 

7 

0  1  1  1  V 

11 

1  0  1  1  V 

13 

1  1  0  1  V 

14 

1  1  1  0  v 

15 


1  1  1  1  v 


(b) 

1 

X4X3X2X1 

0 

1 

0  0  0- 

:  i  0 

2 

0  0 

-  0 

1 

5 

0 

_ 

0  1  V 

1 

9 

- 

0 

0  1  V 

2 

.  6 

0 

- 

1  0  V 

9 

10 

- 

0 

1  0  V 

5 

7 

0 

1 

-  1  V 

5 

13 

- 

1 

0  1  V 

6 

7 

0 

1 

1  -  V 

6 

14 

- 

1 

1  0  V 

9 

11 

1 

0 

-1  V 

9 

13 

1 

— 

0  1  V 

;10 

11 

1 

0 

1  -  V 

|10 

14 

1 

- 

1  0  V 

7 

15 

_ 

1 

1  1  V 

11 

15 

1 

- 

1  1  V 

13 

15 

1 

1 

-1  V 

14 

15 

1 

1 

1  -  V 

A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 

G 
H 


1 

2 

5  9  13 

6  10  14 

X4X3X2X1 

--01 
--10 

5 

6 

9 

10 

7  13  15 

7  14  15 

11  13  15 

11  14  15 

-1-1 
-  1  1  - 
1  -  -  1 
1  -  1  - 

(d) 


0 

1 

2 

5 

6 

9 

10 

7 

11 

13 

14 

15 

X 

X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 
X 

X 

X 
X 
X 

X 
X 
X 
X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

(e) 

(i)  (0,  1)  +  (2,  6,  10,  14)  +  (5,  7,  13,  15)  +  (  9,  11,  13,  15) 
(ii)  (0,  2)  +  (1,  5,    9, 13)  +  (6,  7,  14,  15)  +  (10,  11,  14,  15) 

Ti      =    X4'X3'X2'    +    X2X1'    +    X3X1    +    X4X1 

Tii  =  X4'x3'xi'  +  X1X2'  +  X3X2  +  X4X2 


of  its  crosses  circled  can  be  discarded  without  violating  the  requirement 
that  each  column  should  have  at  least  one  cross  from  a  selected  row. 
Rows  with  no  circled  entries  are  discarded  (one  by  one,  since  removal  of 
one  row  may  require  more  crosses  to  be  circled)  until  each  selected  row 
contains  at  least  one  circled  cross.  This  completes  the  first  step.  The  se- 
lected rows  now  correspond  to  a  first  approximation  to  a  minimum  sum. 
A  check  should  be  made  to  determine  whether  the  number  of  selected 
rows  is  equal  to  the  minimum  number  of  basis  rows.  In  Table  X  there 
are  at  most  4  crosses  per  row  and  26  columns  so  that  the  minimum  num- 


1434       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  IX  —  Table  of  Prime  Implicants  for  Transmission 

^  =  Z  (0>  1.  2,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  11,  13,  14,  15,  16,  18,  19,  20, 
21,  23,  24,  25,  26,  27,  28,  29,  30) 
The  selection  of  row  A  is  shown 
0  1  2  4  8  16  5  6  9  18  20  24  7  11  13  14  19  21  25  26  28  15  23  27  29  30 


A 
B 

— 

X 

1 
X 

C 

k 

D 

X 

E 

X 

F 

X 

G 

X 

H 

X 

I 

X 

J 

X 

K 

X 

L 

X 

M 

X 

X      X 

N 

X 

X 

X 

0 

X 

X 

X 

P 

X 

X 

X 

Q 

X 

X   X 

R 

X 

X 

X 

S 

X 

X 

X 

X 

T 

X 

X 

X 

X 

U 

X 

X 

X 

X 

V 

X 

X   X 

X 

W 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

Y 

Z 

X 
X 


X 
X 


X 
X 


X 
X 


X 
X 


X — X 

I 


X 
X 


i 


2' 


ber  of  basis  rows  is  [-^]  +  1  =  7.  Since  the  number  of  selected  rows  is 
9  there  is  no  guarantee  that  they  correspond  to  a  minimum  sum. 

If  such  an  approximation  to  a  minimum  sum  is  not  acceptable,  then 
further  work  is  necessary  in  order  to  reduce  the  number  of  selected  rows. 
For  each  of  the  selected  rows,  a  check  is  made  of  whether  any  of  the  rows 
in  the  lower  part  of  the  table  (non-selected  rows)  have  crosses  in  all 
columns  in  which  the  selected  row  has  circled  crosses.  In  Table  X  row 
E  has  a  circled  cross  only  in  column  19;  since  row  Y  also  has  a  cross  in 
coluimi  19  rows  E  and  Y  are  labeled  "a".  Other  pairs  of  rows  which  have 
the  same  relation  are  labeled  with  lower  case  letters,  b,  c,  d,  e  in  Table  X. 
It  is  possible  to  interchange  pairs  of  rows  which  are  labeled  Avith  the  same 
lower  case  letter  without  violating  the  requirement  that  each  column 
must  contain  a  cross  from  at  least  one  selected  row.  If  a  non-selected  row 
is  labeled  with  two  lower  case  letters  then  it  may  be  possible  to  replace 
two  selected  rows  by  this  one  non-selected  row  and  thereby  reduce  the 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS 


1435 


ej  .O  «  T3  aj 


o^ 


4j      a 


o 

ec 

05 

c^ 

r^ 

(M 

w 

(M 

>C 

r-H 

on 

c^ 

«o 

o 

c^ 

"Z 

NH 

>« 

z 

(N 

o 

1— 1 

1—1 

p-^ 

H 

tf 

05 

< 

1— I 

Ph 

•^ 

« 

1— t 

w 

£2 

< 

n 
H 


© 

X 

© 

XXX 

X         X 

X 

© 

X 

® 

X        X 

© 

XX                    X 

X  X 

X                             X 

X   X 

XX                                   X 

© 

XX                        X 

® 

X 

© 

X 

© 

XXX                               X 

© 

X 

X  X 

X                       X 

© 

XX                          XXX                    X 

© 

X                   XX 

X                               X 

X 

XX                  X 

X                        XX 

© 

X               X 

® 

XX                   XXX              X 

X   X 

XX                        X 

© 

X                  X 

© 

XX              XX 

© 

X 

© 

X             X 

XXX 

XXX 

-jJWfeOH-iWH;::)^  moQW^  jS^OPiO'tf  a5>X>^N 


1436       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


o 

CO 


Q   CO 

< 


^ 

Q 

(M 

«t^ 

►J 

05 

w 

« 

f-H 

^ 

e«5 

a 

'4. 

1-H 

< 

^ 

t>. 

\^ 

^ 

•^ 

W 

C^ 

cc  o 

is  "^ 

H   05 


X 


»o 


H 

n  CD 

<  ^ 

H 

I      00 


X 


a  IN 

n 
<  -^ 


© 

X 

© 

XXX 

© 

X                   X 

© 

X 

© 

X  X 

© 

XX              X 

© 

XX                        X 

® 

XXX                              X 

® 

XX                              X 

© 

X 

© 

X 

© 

X                        XX                             X 

© 

X 

© 

XXX 

® 

XX                    XXX                    X 

© 

XXX 

© 

X                                                 X 

© 

X             X 

© 

X                          X                    X   X   X              X 

G 

XX                        X 
X                  X 

© 

XX              XX 

© 

X 

(^                                                                            X              X 

XXX 

XXX 

<*^>^0>-^\^U'^  Wp^WP30QWH3S;z;OPHC?tf  a!>Xts5 


MINIMIZATION    OF   BOOLEAN   FUNCTIONS  1437 

total  number  of  selected  rows  (a  check  must  be  made  that  the  two 
selected  rows  being  removed  do  not  contain  the  only  two  selected-row 
crosses  in  a  column).  In  Table  X  no  such  interchange  is  possible. 

Next  a  check  should  be  made  as  to  whether  two  of  the  labeled  non- 
selected  rows  can  be  used  to  replace  three  selected  rows,  etc.  In  Table 
X  rows  Y(a)  and  J(b)  can  replace  rows  E(a),  F(b)  and  K  or  rows  Y(a) 
and  P(d)  can  replace  rows  E(a),  T(d)  and  K.  The  table  which  results 
from  replacing  rows  E,  F  and  K  by  rows  Y  and  J  is  given  in  Table  XL 
The  number  of  selected  rows  is  now  8  which  is  still  greater  than  7,  the 
minimum  number  possible.  This  table  actually  represents  the  minimum 
sum  for  this  transmission  even  though  this  cannot  be  proved  rigorously 
by  the  procedure  being  described. 

If  it  is  assumed  that  a  minimum  sum  can  always  be  obtained  by  ex- 
changing pairs  of  selected  and  nonselected  rows  until  it  finally  becomes 
possible  to  replace  two  or  more  selected  row^s  by  a  single  selected  row, 
then  it  is  possible  to  show  directly  that  the  Table  XI  does  represent  a 
minimum  sum.  The  only  interchange  possible  in  Table  XI  is  that  of 
rows  T  and  P.  If  this  replacement  is  made  then  a  table  results  in  which 
only  rows  J  and  F  can  be  interchanged.  Interchanging  rows  J  and  F 
does  not  lead  to  the  possibility  of  interchanging  any  new  pairs  of  rows 
so  that  this  process  cannot  be  carried  any  further. 

On  the  basis  of  experience  with  this  method  it  seems  that  it  is  not 
necessary  to  consider  interchanges  mvolving  more  than  one  non-selected 
row.  Such  interchanges  have  only  been  necessary  in  order  to  obtain  al- 
ternate minimum  sums;  however,  no  proof  for  the  fact  that  they  are 
never  required  in  order  to  obtain  a  minimum  sum  has  yet  been  dis- 
covered. 

9      AN   ALTERNATE    EXACT   PROCEDURE 

It  is  possible  to  represent  the  prime  implicant  table  in  an  alternative 
form  such  as  that  given  in  Table  XII  (b).  From  this  form  not  only  the 
minimum  sums  but  also  all  possible  sum  of  products  forms  for  the  trans- 
mission which  correspond  to  consistent  row  sets  can  be  obtained  sys- 
tematically. For  concreteness,  this  representation  will  be  explained  in 
terms  of  Table  XII.  Since  column  0  has  crosses  only  in  rows  B  and  C, 
any  consistent  row  set  must  contain  either  row  B  or  row  C  (or  both). 
Similarly,  column  3  requires  that  any  consistent  row  set  must  contain 
either  row  D  or  row  E  (or  both).  When  both  columns  0  and  3  are  con- 
sidered they  require  that  any  consistent  row  set  must  contain  either 
row  B  or  row  C  (or  both)  and  either  row  D  or  row  E  (or  both).  This 
requirement  can  be  expressed  symbolically  as  (B  -f  C)  (D  -f  E)  where 


1438      THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  XII  —  Derivation  of  the  Minimum  Sums 
FOR  the  Transmission 

T  =  E  (0,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  10,  11) 


(a)  Table  of  Prime  Implicants 


Xi  Xi 
XiX%X\ 

X3X2X1 

Xi'XiXi 
Xz'x^Xx 

XiXa'Xi 


A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 


0 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

10 

11 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 
X 

X 

X 

X 

X 
X 

(b)  Boolean  Representation  of  Table 
(B  +  C)(D  +  E)(A  +  B)(A)(A)(A  +  D)(C)(F)(E  +  F) 

(c)  Consistent  Row  Sets 

(A,  C,  F,  D),        (A,  C,  F,  E) 

T  =  Xi'xz  +  xz'xi'xi'  +  xaz'x2  +  a;4'x2a;i 

T    =    Xa'X3   +   Xs'Xi'Xi'   +   X^Xz'Xi   +   Xi'XiXx 


"or"  (non-exclusive)  and  multiplication  signifies 


addition  stands  for 
"and."  This  expression  can  be  interpreted  as  a  Boolean  Algebra  expres- 
sion and  the  Boolean  Algebra  theorems  used  to  simplify  it.  In  particular 
it  can  be  "multiplied  out": 

(B  +  C)  (D  +  E)  =  BD  +  BE  +  CD  +  CE 

This  form  is  equivalent  to  the  statement  that  columns  0  and  3  require 
that  any  consistent  row  set  must  contain  either  rows  B  and  D,  or  rows 
B  and  E,  or  rows  C  and  D,  or  rows  C  and  E. 

The  complete  requirements  for  a  consistent  row  set  can  be  obtained 
directly  by  providing  a  factor  for  each  column  of  the  table.  Thus  for 
Table  XII  the  requirements  for  a  consistent  row  set  can  be  written  as: 

(B  +  C)(D  +  E)(A  +  B)(A)(A)(A  +  D)(C)(F)(E  +  F) 

By  using  the  theorems  that  A-(A  +  D)  =  A  and  A- A  =  A,  this  can 
be  simplified  to  ACF(D  +  E).  Thus  the  two  consistent  row  sets  for  this 
table  are  A,  C,  F,  D  and  A,  C,  F,  E  and  since  they  both  contain  the 
same  number  of  rows,  they  both  represent  minimum  sums.  This  is  true 
only  because  rows  D  and  E  contain  the  same  number  of  crosses.  In 
general,  each  row  should  be  assigned  a  weight  w  =  n  —  \og,2k,  where 
n  is  the  number  of  variables  in  the  transmission  being  considered  and 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS 


1439 


Table   XIII  —  Determination    of   the   Minimum   Sums   for   the 

Prime  Implicant  Table  of  Table  VII  by  Means  of 

THE  Boolean  Representation 

(a)  Boolean  representation  of  the  Prime  Implicant  Table  of  Table  VI 
(A+B)  (A+C)  (B+D)  (C+E)  (D+F)  (G)  (E+F+H)  (G+I)  (H+J)  (1+ J) 

(b)  The  expression  of  (a)  after  multiplying  out.  (The  terms  in  italic 

correspond  to  minimum  sums) 

ADEJG  +  ACDFJG  +  ACDHJG  +  ADEHIG  +  ACDHIG  +  ABEFJG 

+  ABEFHIG  +  BCDEJG  +  BCDHJG  +  BCDHIG  +  BCFJG  +  BCFHIG 


-G- 


A 


(c)  Tree  circuit  equivalent  of  (b) 

J 

B E---F- 


---D 


■--H- 
--H- 


--I 

--J 

--I 

--J 


-E--- 


-B--- 


-C 


D- 


-_F 


---H 

---J 

"1 

---E 

---H 

--I 
--I 

--J 

---H 1 

---J 



5 
6 
5 
5 
5 
5 
4  V 

5 
5 
5 
5 

4  V 


k  is  the  number  of  crosses  in  the  row.*  To  select  the  minimum  sums,  the 
sum  of  the  weights  of  the  rows  should  be  calculated  for  each  row  set 
containing  the  fewest  rows.  The  row  sets  having  the  smallest  total  weight 
correspond  to  minimum  sums.  If,  instead  of  the  minimum  sum,  the  form 
leading  to  the  two-stage  diode-logic  circuit  requiring  fewest  diodes  is 
desired,  a  slightly  different  procedure  is  appropriate.  To  each  row  set 
is  assigned  a  total  weight  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  weights  of  the  rows 
plus  the  number  of  rows  in  the  set.  The  desired  form  then  corresponds  to 
the  row  set  having  the  smallest  total  weight. 

The  procedure  for  an  arbitrary  table  is  analogous.  A  more  compli- 
cated example  is  given  in  Table  XIII.  In  this  example  the  additional 

*  n-log2    k  is  the  number  of  literals  in  the  prime  implicant  coriesponding  to 
a  row  containing  k  crosses. 


1440       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


theorem  (A  +  B)(A  +  C)  =  (A  +  BC)  is  useful.  This  example  shows 
that  for  a  general  table  the  expressions  described  in  this  Section  and 
the  multipHcation  process  can  become  very  lengthy.  However,  this  pro- 
cedure is  entirely  systematic  and  may  be  suitable  for  mechanization. 

Since  the  product  of  factors  representation  of  a  prime  implicant 
table  is  a  Boolean  expression,  it  can  be  interpreted  as  the  transmission 
of  a  contact  network.  Each  consistent  row  set  then  corresponds  to  a 
path  through  this  equivalent  network.  By  sketching  the  network  directly 
from  the  product  of  factors  expression,  it  is  possible  to  avoid  the  multi- 
plication process.  In  particular  the  network  should  be  sketched  in  the 
form  of  a  tree,  as  in  Table  XIII (c)  and  the  Boolean  Algebra  theorems 
used  to  simplify  it  as  it  is  being  drawn.  For  hand  calculations,  this 
method  is  sometimes  easier  than  direct  multiplication. 


I 


10      d-TERMS 

In  Section  1  the  possibility  of  having  rf-entries  in  a  table  of  combina- 
tions was  mentioned.  Whenever  there  are  combinations  of  the  relay 
conditions  for  which  the  transmission  is  not  specified,  f/-entries  are  placed 
in  the  T-column  of  the  corresponding  rows  of  the  table  of  combinations. 

Table  XIV  —  Determination  of  the  Minimum 
Sum  for  the  Transmission 

T  =  X)(5,  6,  13)  +    f/(9,  14)  Where  9  and  14  are  the    cI-Terms, 


(d) 


(a)  Determination  of  Prime  Implicants 


Xi  Xs  X2X1 

5  0  1  0  1  V 

6  0  1  1  0  V 
9        1  0  0  1  V 


5  13 

6  14 
9  13 


13        1  1  0  1  V 
(d)  14        1  1  1  0  V 


(b)  Prime  Implicant  Table 
5       6        13 


* 

X 

X 

* 

X 

X 

X4X3  ^"2X1 

-  1  0  1 

-  1  1  0 
1-01 


(c) 
Basis  rows:     (5,  13),  (6,  14) 


(d) 
T  =  XaXi'xi  +  Tso-oa-i' 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN    FUNCTIONS  1441 

The  actual  values  (0  or  1)  of  these  d-entries  are  chosen  so  as  to  simplify 
the  form  of  the  transmission.  This  section  will  describe  how  to  modify 
the  method  for  obtaining  a  minimum  sum  when  the  table  of  combina- 
|{  tions  contains  rf-entries. 

The  p-terms  which  correspond  to  rf-entries  in  the  table  of  combinations 
will  be  called  d-terms.  These  d-terms  should  be  included  in  the  list  of 
p-terms  which  are  used  to  form  the  prime  implicants.  See  Table  XIV. 
However,  in  forming  the  prime  implicant  table,  columns  corresponding 
to  the  d-terms  should  not  be  included.  Table  XlV(b).  The  d-terms  are 
used  in  forming  the  prime  implicants  in  order  to  obtain  prime  impli- 
cants containing  the  fewest  possible  literals.  If  columns  corresponding 
to  the  f/-terms  were  included  in  forming  the  prime  implicant  table  this 
would  correspond  to  setting  all  the  rf-entries  in  the  table  of  combina- 
tions equal  to  1.  This  does  not  necessarily  lead  to  the  simplest  minimum 
sum.  In  the  procedure  just  described,  the  rf-entries  will  automatically  be 
set  equal  to  either  0  or  1  so  as  to  produce  the  simplest  minimum  sum. 
For  the  transmission  of  Table  XIV  the  14  d-entry  has  been  set  eciual  to 

I  and  the  9  c^-entry  has  been  set  equal  to  0. 

II  NON-CANONICAL   SPECIFICATIONS 

A  transmission  is  sometimes  specified  not  by  a  table  of  combinations 
or  a  canonical  expansion,  but  as  a  sum  of  product  terms  (not  necessarily 
prime  implicants).  The  method  described  in  Section  3  is  applicable  to 
such  a  transmission  if  the  appropriate  table  of  combinations  (decimal 
specification)  is  first  obtained.  However,  it  is  possible  to  modify  the 
procedure  to  make  use  of  the  fact  that  the  transmission  is  already  partly 
reduced.  The  first  step  is  to  express  the  transmission  in  a  table  of  binary 
characters  such  as  Table  XVa.  Then  each  pair  of  characters  is  examined 
to  determine  whether  any  different  character  could  have  been  formed 
from  the  characters  used  in  forming  the  characters  of  the  pair.  For 
example,  in  Table  XV (a)  a  (1) (00  00  1)  was  used  in  forming  the 
(0,  1)(0000-)  character  and  a  (3) (000  1  1)  was  used  in  forming  the 
(3,  7)(0  0  -  1  1)  character.  These  can  be  combined  to  form  a  new  char- 
acter (1,  3) (000-  1).  The  new  characters  formed  by  this  process  are 
listed  in  another  column  such  as  Table  XV (b).  This  process  is  continued 
until  no  new  characters  are  formed. 

In  examining  a  pair  of  characters,  it  is  sufficient  to  determine  whether 
there  is  only  one  position  where  one  character  has  a  one  and  the  other 
character  has  a  zero.  If  this  is  true  a  new  character  is  formed  which  has 
a  dash  in  this  position  and  any  other  position  in  which  both  characters 
have  dashes,  and  has  a  zero  (one)  in  any  position  in  which  either  charac- 


1442       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHXICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Table  XV  —  Determination  of  the  Prime   Implicants  for  the 
Transmission  of  Table  XV  Specified  as  a 
Sum  of  Product  Terms 


(a)  Specification 

(b)  Characters  Derived  from  (a) 

Xa  Z4  Z3a;2  a:i 

a;5  X4  3:3  a;2  a^i 

0       1        0  0  0  0  -  v/ 

0      2        0  0  0  -  0  V 

3       7        0  0-11 

14     15        0  111- 

22     23         10  11- 

29     31         111-1 

1  3        0  0  0  -  1  V 

2  3        0  0  0  1  -  V 
7     15        0  -  1  1  1  V 
7     23        -  0  1   1   1  V 

15    31        -  1   1   1   1  x/ 
23    31         1  -  1   1   1    \' 

(c)  Characters  De 

ivcd  from  (a)  and  (b) 

XiX^XzX-iXi 

0     12    3 
7  15  23  31 

0  0  0  -  - 

-  -  1  1  1 

ter  has  a  zero  (one).  In  Table  X\'a  the  (0,  1)  character  has  a  zero  in  the 
.r2-position  while  the  (3,  7)  character  has  a  one  in  the  .ro-position.  A  new 
character  is  fornied  (1,  3)  which  has  a  dash  in  ihe  .<-2-p()sition. 

This  rule  for  constructing  new  characters  is  actually  a  generalization 
of  the  rule  used  in  Section  3  and  corresponds  to  the  theorem. 

.ri.r2  +  .r/.rii  =  XiX-s  +  .ri'.r;5  +  .r2.r3  . 

Repeated  application  of  this  rule  will  lead  to  the  complete  set  of  prime 
implicants.  As  described  in  Section  3,  any  character  which  has  all  of  the 
numbers  of  its  decimal  label  appearing  in  the  label  of  another  character 
should  be  checked.  The  unchecked  characters  then  represent  the  prime 
implicants.  The  process  described  in  this  section  was  discussed  fi'om  a 
slightly  different  point  of  view  by  Quine.^ 

12    summary  and  conclusions 

In  this  paper  a  method  has  been  presented  for  writing  any  transmis- 
sion as  a  minimum  sum.  This  method  is  similar  to  that  of  Quine;  how- 
ever, several  significant  improvements  have  been  made.  The  notation 
has  been  simplified  by  using  the  symbols  0,  1  and  -  instead  of  primed 
and  unprimed  variables.  While  it  is  not  completeh^  new  in  itself,  this 
notation  is  especially  appropriate  for  the  arrangement  of  terms  used  in 
determining  the  prime  implicants.  Listing  the  terms  in  a  column  which 
is  partitioned  so  as  to  place  terms  containing  the  same  number  of  1  's  in 
the  same  partition  reduces  materially  the  labor  involved  in  determining 
the  prime  implicants.  Such  a  list  retains  some  of  the  advantage  of  the 
arrangement  of  squares  in  the  Karnaugh  Chart  without  reciuiring  a 
geometrical  representation  of  an  n-dimensional  hj^percube.  Since  the 


MINIMIZATION    OF    BOOLEAN   FUNCTIONS  1443 

l)i-ocodure  for  determining  the  i)rinie  iniplicants  is  completely  systematic 
it  is  capable  of  being  programmed  on  a  digital  computer.  The  arrange- 
ment of  terms  introduced  here  then  results  in  a  considerable  saving  in 
both  time  and  storage  space  over  previous  methods,  making  it  possible 
to  solve  larger  problems  on  a  given  computer.  It  should  be  pointed  out 
that  this  procedure  can  be  programmed  on  a  decimal  machine  by  using 
the  decimal  labels  instead  of  the  binary  characters  introduced. 

A  method  was  presented  for  choosing  the  minimum  sum  terms  from 
the  list  of  prime  iniplicants  by  means  of  a  table  of  prime  implicants. 
This  is  again  similar  to  a  method  presented  l:)y  Quine.  Howe\'er,  Quine 
did  not  give  any  systematic  procedure  for  handling  cyclic  prime  impli- 
cant  tables;  that  is,  tables  with  more  than  one  cross  in  each  column.  In 
this  paper  a  procedure  is  given  for  obtaining  a  minimum  sum  from  a 
cyclic  prime  implicant  table.  In  general,  this  procedure  requires  enumera- 
tion of  several  possible  minimum  sums.  If  a  transmission  has  any  non- 
trivial  group  invariances  it  may  be  possible  to  avoid  enumeration  or  to 
reduce  considerably^  the  amount  of  enumeration  necessary.  A  method 
for  doing  this  is  given. 

The  process  of  enumeration  used  for  selecting  the  terms  of  the  mini- 
mum sum  from  a  cyclic  prime  implicant  table  is  not  completely  satis- 
factory since  it  can  be  quite  lengthy.  In  seeking  a  procedure  which  does 
not  require  enumeration,  the  method  involving  the  group  invariances  of 
a  transmission  was  discovered.  This  method  is  an  improvement  over 
complete  enumeration,  but  still  has  two  shortcomings.  There  are  trans- 
missions which  have  no  nontrivial  group  invariances  but  which  give 
rise  to  cyclic  prime  implicant  tables.  For  such  transmissions  it  is  still 
necessary  to  resort  to  enumeration.  Other  transmissions  which  do  possess 
nontrivial  group  invariances  still  reciuire  enumeration  after  the  in- 
variances have  been  used  to  simplify  the  process  of  selecting  minimum 
sum  terms.  More  research  is  necessary  to  determine  some  procedure 
which  will  not  require  any  enumeration  for  cyclic  prime  implicant 
tables.  Perhaps  the  concept  of  group  invariance  can  be  generalized  so 
as  to  apply  to  all  transmissions  which  result  in  cyclic  prime  implicant 
tables. 

13      ACKNOW'LEDGEMENTS 

The  author  wishes  to  acknowledge  his  indebtedness  to  Professor  S.  H. 
Caldwell,  Professor  D.  A.  Huffman,  Professor  W.  K.  Linvill,  and  S.  H. 
Unger  with  whom  the  author  had  many  stimulating  discussions.  Thanks 
are  due  also  to  W.  J.  Cadden,  C.  Y.  Lee,  and  G.  H.  Mealy  for  their 
helpful  comments  on  the  preparation  of  this  paper. 


1444       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

This  research  was  supported  in  part  by  the  Signal  Corps;  the  Office 
of  Scientific  Research,  Air  Research  and  Development  Command;  and 
the  Office  of  Naval  Research. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1.  Karnaugh,  M.,  The  Map  Method  for  Synthesis  of  Combinational  Logic  Cir- 

cuits, Trans.  A.I.E.E.,  72,  Part  I  pp.  593-598,  1953. 

2.  Keister,  W.,  Ritchie,  A.  E.,  Washburn,  S.,  The  Design  of  Switching  Circuits, 

New  York,  D.  Van  Nostrand  Company,  Inc.,  1951. 

3.  Shannon,  C.  E.,  A  Sj^mbolic  Analysis  of  Relay  and  Switching  Circuits,  Trans. 

A.I.E.E.,  57,  pp.  713-723,  1938. 

4.  Shannon,  C.  E.,  The  Synthesis  of  Two-Terminal  Switching  Circuits,  B. S.T.J. , 

28,  pp.  59-98,  1949. 

5.  Staff  of  the  Harvard  Computation  Laboratory,  Synthesis  of  Electronic  Com- 

puting and  Control  Circuits,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1951,  Harvard  University 
Press. 

6.  Quine,  W.  V.,  The  Problem  of  Simplifying  Truth  Functions,  The  American 

Mathematical  Monthly,  59,  No.  8,  pp." 521-531,  Oct.,  1952. 

7.  Quine,  W.  V.,  A  Wav  fo  Simplify  Truth  Functions,  The  American  Mathe- 

matical Monthly,  62,  pp.  627-631,  Nov.,  1955. 


Detection  of  Group  Invariance  or  Total 
Symmetry  of  a  Boolean  Function* 

By  E.  J.  McCLUSKEY,  Jr. 

(Manuscript  received  June  26,  1956) 

A  method  is  presented  for  determining  whether  a  Boolean  function  pos- 
sesses any  group  invariance;  that  is,  whether  there  are  any  permutations  or 
primings  of  the  independent  variables  which  leave  the  function  unchanged. 
This  method  is  then  extended  to  the  detection  of  functions  which  are  totally 
symmetric. 

1      GROUP   INVARIANCE 

For  some  Boolean  transmission  functions  (transmissions,  for  short)  it 
is  possible  to  permute  the  variables,  or  prime  some  of  the  variables,  or 
both  permute  and  prime  variables  without  changing  the  transmission. 
The  following  material  presents  a  method  for  determining,  for  any  given 
transmission,  which  of  these  operations  (if  any)  can  be  carried  out  with- 
out changing  the  transmission. 

The  permutation  operations  will  be  represented  symbolically  as  fol- 
lows: 

Si2z...nT  will  represent  the  transmission  T  with  no  variables  permuted 
8213.. -nT  will  represent  the  transmission  T  with  the  xi  and  X2  variables 

interchanged,  etc. 
Thus  *Si432T(.x-i ,  X2 ,  xs ,  X4)  =  T(xi  ,  Xi ,  Xs ,  X2') 
The  symbolic  notation  for  the  priming  operation  will  be  as  follows: 
Noooo-.-oT  will  represent  the  transmission  T  with  no  variables  primed 
A^ono.  --oT  will  represent  the  transmission  T  with  the  .r2  and  ;i;3  variables 

primed,  etc. 
Thus  NiowT(xi  ,  :r2 ,  X3 ,  Xa)  =  T(xi,  X2 ,  Xs,  Xi). 

The  notation  for  the  priming  operator  can  be  shortened  by  replacing 
the  binary  subscript  on  N  by  its  decimal  equivalent.  Thus  N9T  is  equiv- 

*  This  paper  is  derived  from  a  thesis  submitted  to  the  Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the  requirements  for  the  degree  of  Doctor 
of  Science  on  April  30,  1956. 

1445       . 


144G       THE   BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  I  —  Transmission  Matrices  Showing  Effect  of 

Interchanging  or  Priming  Variables 

(a)  Tr 

ansmission  IVIatrix 

(b)  Transmission  jNIatrix 

with  a-3  and  x^  columns 

interchanged 

(c)    Transmission    Ma- 
trix with  entries  of  the 
x%  and  Xi  cokimns 
primed 

0 
1 

2 

9 

10 

11 

Xi    X%   Xz    Xi 

0    0    0    0 
0    0    0    1 
0    0    10 
10    0    1 
10    10 
10    11 

0 
2 
1 

10 
9 

11 

X\    Xi    Xi    Xz 

0    0    0    0 
0    0     10 
0    0    0     1 
10     10 
10    0     1 
10     11 

3 

2 
1 

10 
9 
8 

X\    X2  Xz'  Xi' 

0    0    11 
0    0    10 
0    0    0    1 
10    10 
10    0    1 
10    0    0 

alent  to  NwoiT.  The  permutation  and  priming  operators  can  be  combined. 
For  example, 

S2mN3T(xi ,  X2 ,  xs ,  Xi)  =  T{x2 ,  Xi ,  x^,  Xi) 

The  symbols  SiNj  form  a  mathematical  group, ^  hence  the  term  group 
invariance. 

The  problem  considered  here  is  that  of  determining  which  A^,-  and  Sj 
satisfy  the  relation  NiS/F  =  T  for  a  given  transmission  T.  Since  there 
are  only  a  finite  number  of  different  Ni  and  Sj  operators  it  is  possible  in 
principle  to  compute  NiSjT  for  all  possible  NiSj  and  then  select  those 
NiSj  for  which  NiSjJ'  =  T.  If  T  is  a  function  of  n  variables,  there  are 
n!  possible  Sj  operators  and  2"  .V,  operators  so  that  there  are  n!2"  pos- 
sible combinations  of  N'iSj .  Actually,  if  NiSjT  =  T  then  NiT  must 
equal  SjT''^^  so  that  it  is  only  necessary  to  compute  all  NiT  and  all  Sj7\ 
For  /I  =  4,  n!  =  24  and  2"  =  16  so  that  the  number  of  possibilities  to 
be  considered  is  quite  large  even  for  functions  of  only  four  variables.  It 
is  possible  to  avoid  enumerating  all  NiT  and  SjT  by  taking  into  account 
certain  characteristics  of  the  transmission  being  considered. 

The  first  step  in  determining  the  group  invariances  of  a  transmission 
is  the  same  as  that  foi  finding  the  prime  implicants.*  The  binary  equiva- 
lents of  the  decimal  numbers  which  specify  the  transmission  are  listed 
as  in  Table  1(a).  This  list  of  binary  numbers  will  be  called  the  transmis- 
sion matrix.  When  two  variables  are  interchanged,  the  corresponding 
columns  of  the  transmission  matrix  are  also  interchanged,  Table  1(b). 
When  a  variable  is  primed,  the  entries  in  the  corresponding  column  of 
the  transmission  matrix  are  also  primed,  0  replaced  by  1  and  1  replaced 
by  0,  Table  1(c). 

If  an  NiSj  operation  leaves  a  transmission  unchanged  then  the  cor- 

*  Minimization  of  Boolean  Functions,  see  page  1417  of  this  issue. 


GROUP   INVAKIANCE    OR   TOTAL   SYMMETRY 


1447 


responding  matrix  operations  will  not  change  the  transmission  matrix 
aside  from  possibly  reordering  the  rows.  In  other  words,  it  should  b^ 
possible  to  reorder  the  rows  of  the  modified  transmission  matrix  to  re- 
gain the  original  transmission  matrix.  The  matrices  of  Table  1(a)  and 
(b)  are  identical  except  for  the  interchange  of  the  1  and  2  and  the  9 
and  10  rows.  It  is  not  possible  to  make  the  matrix  of  Table  1(c)  identical 
with  that  of  Table  1(a)  by  reordering  rows;  therefore  the  operation  of 
priming  the  x^  and  .r4  variables  does  not  leave  the  transmission  T  = 
J]  (0,  1,  2,  9,  10,  11)  michanged. 

If  interchanging  two  columns  of  a  matrix  does  not  change  the  matrix 
aside  from  rearranging  the  rows,  then  the  columns  which  were  inter- 
changed must  both  contain  the  same  number  of  I's  (and  O's).  This  must 


Table  II  —  Partitioning  of  the  Standard  Matrix  for 
2^  =  Z  (4,  5,  7,  8,  9,  11,  30,  33,  49) 


(a)  Transmission  Matrix 


Xi 

X2 

Xs 

Xi 

Xi 

X6 

4 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

8 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

9 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

33 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

7 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

1 

11 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

49 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

30 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

Number  of  O's 

7 

7 

5 

5 

6 

3 

Number  of  I's 

2 

2 

4 

4 

3 

6 

(b)  Standard  Matrix  for  (a)  Matrix 

Weight 
1 
1 
1 


Xi 

Xi 

Xs 

Xi 

Xs 

xe' 

4 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

8 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

32 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

6 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

9 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

1 

10 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

48 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

31 

0 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

7 

7 

5 

5 

6 

6 

2 

2 

4 

4 

3 

3 

2 
2 

2 
2 
2 


(c)  Second  Partitioning  of 
rows  for  (b)  matrix 


(d)  Final  Partitioning 
for  (b)  matrix 


Xi    Xi 

0    0 
0    0 

a-3  Xi 

0  1 

1  0 

Xi  xe' 
0    0 
0    0 

X\ 

0 
0 

X2 

0 
0 

Xz    Xi 

0  1 

1  0 

Xi  Xe' 
0    0 
0    0 

1     0 

0    0 

0    0 

1 

0 
0 
0 
0 

1 

0 

0 

0    0 

0    0 

oooo 
oooo 

0     1 

0  1 

1  0 
1     0 

0  1 

1  0 

0  1 

1  0 

0 
0 
0 
0 



1 

1 

0     1 

0  1 

1  0 
1     0 

0  1 

1  0 

0  1 

1  0 

1   1 

0    0 

0    0 

0    0 

0    0 

0     1 

1     1 

1   1 

1   1 

1   1 

1448       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

be  true  since  rearranging  the  rows  of  a  matrix  does  not  change  the  total 
jiumber  of  I's  in  each  column.  Similarly,  if  priming  some  columns  of  a 
matrix  leaves  the  rows  unchanged,  either  each  column  must  have  an 
equal  number  of  I's  and  O's  or  else  for  each  primed  column  which  has  an 
unequal  number  of  O's  and  I's  there  must  be  a  second  primed  column 
which  has  as  many  I's  as  the  first  primed  column  has  O's  and  vice  versa. 
Such  pairs  of  columns  must  also  be  interchanged  to  keep  the  total  num- 
ber of  I's  in  each  column  invariant.  For  the  matrix  of  Table  11(a)  the 
only  operations  that  need  be  considered  are  either  interchanging  xi  and 
X2  or  Xz  and  Xt  or  priming  and  interchanging  x^  and  .re  . 

For  the  present  it  will  be  assumed  that  no  columns  of  the  matrix  have 
an  equal  number  of  O's  and  I's.  It  is  possible  to  determine  all  permuting 
and  priming  operations  which  leave  such  a  matrix  unchanged  by  con- 
sidering only  permutation  operations  on  a  related  matrix.  This  related 
matrix,  called  the  standard  matrix,  is  formed  by  priming  all  the  columns 
of  the  original  matrix  which  have  more  I's  than  O's,  the  Xq  column  in  the 
matrix  of  Table  11(a).  Each  column  of  a  standard  matrix  must  contain 
more  O's  than  I's,  Table  11(b).  The  NiSj  operations  which  leave  the 
original  matrix  unchanged  can  be  determined  directly  from  the  oper- 
ations that  leave  the  corresponding  standard  matrix  unchanged.  It  is 
therefore  only  necessary  to  consider  standard  matrices. 

Since  no  columns  of  a  standard  matrix  have  an  equal  number  of  I's 
and  O's  and  no  columns  have  more  I's  than  O's  it  is  only  necessary  to 
consider  permuting  operations.  The  number  of  I's  in  a  column  (or  row) 
will  be  called  the  weight  of  the  column  (or  row).  Only  columns  or  rows 
which  have  the  same  weights  can  be  interchanged.  The  matrix  should 
be  partitioned  so  that  all  columns  (or  rows)  in  the  same  partition  have 
the  same  weight.  Table  11(b).  It  is  now  possible  to  interchange  columns 
in  the  same  column  partition  and  check  whether  pairs  of  rows  from  the 
same  row  partition  can  then  be  interchanged  to  regain  the  original 
matrix.  This  can  usually  be  done  by  inspection.  For  example,  in  Table 
11(b)  if  columns  .r4  and  .r3  are  interchanged,  then  interchanging  rows  4 
and  8,  5  and  9,  and  6  and  10  will  regain  the  original  matrix. 

The  process  of  inspection  can  be  simplified  by  carrying  the  partition- 
ing further.  In  the  matrix  of  Table  11(b),  row  32  cannot  be  interchanged 
with  either  row  8  or  row  4.  This  is  because  it  is  not  possible  to  make 
row  32  identical  with  either  row  8  or  row  4  by  interchanging  columns  .ti 
and  X2 .  Row  32  has  weight  1  in  these  columns  while  rows  8  and  14  both 
have  weight  0.  In  general,  only  rows  which  have  the  same  weight  in  each 
submatrix  can  be  interchanged.  Permuting  columns  of  the  same  partition 
does  not  change  the  weight  of  the  rows  in  the  corresponding  submatrices. 


GROUP    INVAUIANCE    OU   TOTAL   SYMMETRY 


1449 


The  matrix  can  therefore  be  further  partitioned  by  separating  the  rows 
into  groups  of  rows  which  have  the  same  weight  in  every  cokmin  parti- 
lion,  Table  11(c).  Similar  remarks  hold  for  the  columns  so  that  it  may 
then  be  necessary  to  partition  the  columns  again  so  that  each  column  in 
a  partition  has  the  same  weight  in  each  submatrix,  Table  11  (d).  Par- 
titioning the  columns  may  make  it  necessary  to  again  partition  the 
rows,  which  in  turn  may  make  more  column  partitioning  necessary.  This 
process  should  l)e  carried  out  until  a  matrix  results  in  which  each  row 
(column)  of  each  submatrix  has  the  same  weight.  Inspection  is  then 
used  to  determine  which  row  and  column  permutations  will  leave  the 
matrix  unchangetl.  Only  permutations  among  rows  or  columns  in  the 
same  partition  need  be  considered. 

From  the  matrix  of  Table  11(d)  it  can  be  seen  that  permuting  either 
columns  .r^  and  .r4  or  columns  x^  and  x^'  will  not  change  the  matrix  aside 
from  reordering  certain  rows.  This  means  that  interchanging  .T3  and  X4 
or  priming  and  interchanging  X5  and  x^  in  the  original  transmission  will 
leave  the  transmission  unchanged.  Interchanging  x^  and  .T5  means  re- 
placing X5  by  xt  and  x^  by  x^,'  which  is  the  same  as  interchanging  x^  and 
x%  and  then  priming  both  Xi,  and  Xq  .  Thus  for  the  transmission  of  Table 
II  0124356-Z   =  T  and  A* 000011*^123465-^  =  N^Sus^ebT  =  T. 

A  procedure  has  been  presented  for  determining  the  group  invariance 
of  any  transmission  matrix  which  does  not  have  an  equal  number  of  I's 
and  O's  in  any  column.  This  must  now  be  extended  to  matrices  which  do 
have  equal  numbers  of  O's  and  I's  in  some  columns,  Table  Ill(a).  For 
such  matrices  the  procedure  is  to  prime  appropriate  columns  so  that 
there  are  either  more  O's  than  I's  or  the  same  number  of  O's  and  I's  in 
each  column,  Tal)le  Ill(a).  This  matrix  is  then  partitioned  as  described 
above  and  the  permutations  which  leave  the  matrix  unchanged  are  de- 
termined. The  matrix  of  Table  Ill(a)  is  so  partitioned.  Interchanging 


Table  III  —  Transmission  Matrices 

FOR    T 

= 

Z  (0,  6,  9,  12) 

(a)  Transniission  Matrix 

(b)    Tr 
with 

ansmission    Matrix 
Xi  and  X2  primed 

0 

Xi    X2 

0    0 

Xz    Xi 

0    0 

0 

10 
5 

12 

Xi'X2' 

0    0 

Xz    Xi 

0    0 

6 
9 

0  1 

1  0 

1    0 
0    1 

1     0 
0     1 

1     0 
0     1 

12 

1     1 

0    0 

1   1 

0    0 

Number  of  O's 
Number  of  I's 

2    2 
2    2 

3    3 
1     1 

2    2 
2    2 

3    3 
1     1 

1450       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

both  xi  and  X2 ,  and  .T3  and  Xi  leave  this  matrix  unchanged  so  that 
^21437"  =  T.  The  possibiHty  of  priming  different  combinations  of  the 
columns  which  have  an  equal  number  of  O's  and  I's  must  now  be  con- 
sidered. Certain  of  the  possible  combinations  can  be  excluded  before- 
hand. In  Table  III  (a)  the  only  possibility  which  must  be  considered  is 
that  of  priming  both  xi  and  X2  .  If  only  xi  or  X2  is  primed,  there  will  be 
no  row  which  has  all  zeros.  No  permutation  of  the  columns  of  this 
matrix  (with  Xi  or  .1-2  primed)  can  produce  a  row  with  all  zeros.  Therefore 
this  matrix  cannot  possibly  be  made  equal  to  the  original  matrix  by  re- 
arranging rows  and  columns.  Priming  both  Xi  and  X2  must  be  considered 
since  the  12-row  will  be  converted  into  a  row  with  all  zeros.  The  opera- 
tion of  priming  .Ti  and  X2  is  written  symbolical!}^  as  A^ioo  =  A''i2  .  In 
general,  if  the  matrix  has  a  row  consisting  of  all  zeros,  only  those  Ni 
operations  for  which  i  is  the  number  of  some  row  in  the  matrix,  need  be 
considered.  If  the  row  does  not  have  an  all-zero  row,  only  those  A'',  for 
which  i  is  not  the  number  of  some  row  need  be  considered.  Similarly,  if 
the  matrix  has  a  row  consisting  of  all  I's,  only  those  A\-  for  which  there 
is  some  row  of  the  matrix  which  will  be  convei'ted  into  an  all-one  row% 
need  be  considered.  This  is  equivalent  to  considering  only  those  Ni  for 
which  some  row  has  a  number  /c  =  2"  —  1  —  t*  where  n  is  the  number 
of  columns.  If  the  matrix  does  not  have  an  all-one  row,  only  those  A^,  for 
which  no  row  has  a  number  A:  =  2"  —  1  —  i  should  be  considered. 

Each  priming  operation  which  is  not  excluded  by  these  rules  is  applied 
to  the  transmission  matrix.  The  matrices  so  formed  are  then  partitioned 
as  described  previously.  Any  of  these  matrices  that  have  the  same  par- 
titioning as  the  original  matrix  are  then  inspected  to  see  if  any  row  and 
column  permutations  will  convert  them  to  the  original  matrix.  For  the 
matrix  of  Table  III  (a)  the  operation  of  priming  both  Xi  and  X2  was  not 
excluded.  The  matrix  which  results  when  these  columns  are  primed  is 
shown  in  Table  Ill(b).  Inspection  of  this  figure  shows  that  interchange 
of  either  Xs  and  .T4  or  Xi  and  X2  will  convert  the  matrix  back  to  the 
matrix  of  Table  III  (a).  Therefore,  for  the  transmission  of  this  table 
SuizNimT  =  T  and  S2i3iNnmT  =  T. 

2      TOTAL   SYMMETRY 

There  are  certain  transmissions  whose  value  depends  not  on  which 
relays  are  operated  but  only  on  how  many  relays  are  operated.  For 

*  The  number  of  the  row  which  has  all  ones  is  2"  —  1 .  If  Ni  operating  on  some 
row,  k,  is  to  produce  the  all-one  row,  i  must  have  I's  wherever  k  has  O's  and  vice 
versa.  This  means  that 

i  +  k  =  2""  -  1     or     A;  =  2"  -  1  -  i. 


GROUP  ixvakiaxcf:  or  total  symmetry  1451 

Table  IV  —  Transmission  Matrix  for 

T  =  S  (3,  5,  6,  7)  =  S2,z(xi ,  X2 ,  .1-3) 

X3    X2    Xi 

3  Oil 

5  10     1 

6  110 

7  111 

example,  the  transmission  of  Table  IV  equals  1  whenever  two  or 
three  relays  are  operated.  For  such  transmissions  any  permutation  of 
the  variables  leaves  the  transmission  unchanged.  These  transmissions 
are  called  totally  symmetric.  They  are  usually  written  in  the  form, 
T  =  Soi  ,  a«---a„X^i  ,  X2 ,  •••  Xn),  whcrc  thc  transmission  is  to  equal 
1  only  ^^•ilen  exactly  ai  or  a-z  or  •  •  •  or  Um  of  the  variables  Xi ,  x^  •  ■  •  Xn 
are  equal  to  one.  The  transmission  of  Table  IV  can  be  written  as 
'S2,3(.i"i ,  x<i ,  Xz).  This  definition  of  symmetric  transmissions  can  be  gen- 
eralized by  allowing  some  of  the  variables  {xi ,  X2 ,  ■  ■  •  .r„)  to  be  primed. 
Thus  the  transmission  S^ixi ,  X2 ,  Xz)  will  equal  1  only  when  Xi  =  X2  = 
X:i  =  1  or  0^1  =  x-i  =  1  and  X2  =  0.  It  is  useful  to  know  when  a  trans- 
mission is  totally  symmetric  since  special  design  techniques  exist  for 
such  functions.'* 

It  is  possible  to  determine  whether  a  transmission  is  totally  symmetric 
from  its  matrix.  Unless  all  columns  of  the  standard  matrix  derived  from 
the  transmission  matrix  have  the  same  weight,  the  transmission  cannot 
possibly  be  totally  symmetric.  If  all  columns  do  have  equal  weights,  the 
rows  should  be  partitioned  into  groups  of  rows  which  all  have  the  same 
weight.  Whether  the  transmission  is  totally  symmetric  can  now  be  de- 
termined by  inspection.  If  there  is  a  row  of  weight  k;  that  is,  a  row  which 
contains  k  I's,  then  every  possible  row  of  weight  k  must  also  be  included 
in  the  matrix.  This  means  that  there  must  be  nCk  rows  of  weight  k  where 
71  is  the  number  of  columns  (variables).*  If  any  possible  row  of  weight  k 
was  not  included  then  the  corresponding  k  literals  could  be  set  equal  to 
1  without  the  transmission  being  equal  to  1.  This  contradicts  the  defi- 
nition of  a  totally  symmetric  transmission.  In  Table  V(b)  there  are  4 
rows  of  weight  1  and  1  row  of  weight  4.  Since  4C1  =  4  and  4C4  =  1  this 
transmission  is  totally  symmetric  and  can  be  written  as  Si,i(xi ,  X2',  Xz , 
Xi).  The  number  of  rows  of  weight  1  in  Table  V(d)  is  2  and  since  iCi  =  4 
this  transmission  is  not  totally  symmetric. 

A  difficulty  arises  if  all  columns  of  a  transmission  matrix  contain  equal 


*  nCk  is  the  binomial  coefficient  -. "    ,,  , 

(n  —  K)\li\ 


1452       THE   BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 


Table  V  — •  Determination  of  Totally  Symmetric  Transmission 


(a)  Transmission  Matrix  for 
T=T.{h  4,  7,  10,  13) 


1 

4 

10 

7 
13 


Number  of  O's 
Number  of  I's 


Xi    Xi    Xz    Xi 

0    0    0     1 
0     10    0 

10     10 

0     111 

110     1 

3    2    3    2 
2    3    2    3 


(c)  Transmission  Matrix  for 
T  =  X(3,5,  10,  12,  13) 


Xl 

X2 

^3 

3-4 

3 

0 

0 

1 

1 

5 

0 

1 

0 

1 

10 

1 

0 

1 

0 

12 

1 

1 

0 

0 

13 


Number  of  O's 
Number  of  I's 


110    1 


2  2    3     2 

3  3     2    3 


(b)    Standard    Matrix    for 

r  =  X  (1>  4,  7,  10,  13) 

showing    that 

T  =  Si, 4  {Xi  ,  X-i    ,  Z3  ,  x/) 


1 

Xl 

0 

X2 

0 

XsZ 

0 

-   4 
1 

2 

0 

0 

1 

0 

4 

0 

1 

0 

0 

8 

1 

0 

0 

0 

15 

1 

1 

1 

1 

3 

3 

3 

3 

2 

2 

2 

2 

(d)  Standard  Matrix  for 

T  = 

V  (3,  5,  10,  12,  13) 

showing 

that  it  is  not 

totally  symmetric 

Xl' 

X2' 

X3  Xi' 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

8 

1 

0 

0 

0 

7 

0 

1 

1 

1 

14 

1 

1 

1 

0 

3 

3 

3 

3 

2 

2 

2 

2 

Table  VI  —  Determination  of  Total  Symmetry  for 
^  =  Z  (0,  3,  5,  10,  12,  15) 


(a)  Transmission  Matrix 

for  T{xi  ,  X2 

,  3-3  ,  Xi) 

Xl   X2    Xs 

2-4 

0 

0    0    0 

0 

3 

0    0     1 

1 

5 

0     1     0 

1 

10 

1     0     1 

0 

12 

1     1     0 

0 

15 

1     1     1 

1 

Number  of  O's 

3    3    3 

3 

Number  of  I's 

3     3    3 

3 

(b)  Standard  Matrix 

for  Til,  X2  , 

Xz   ,   Xi) 

Xi    Xz     Xi 

1  0  0 

0  1  0 

0  0  1 

Number  of  O's 

2  2  2 

Number  of  I's 

1  1   1 

T{1,    X2  ,   Xz  ,    Xi)     =    SiiXi',    Xz',    Xi) 


(c)  Standard  Matrix  for  T(0,  x^  ,  Xz  ,  Xi) 

X2   Xz   Xi' 


0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

0 

Number  of  O's 

2 

2 

2 

Number  of  I's 

1 

1 

1 

T{0,   X2   ,  Xz  ,  Xi)    =    Sl{X2  ,  Xz   ,  Xi')    =    ^2(^2',  Xz',  Xi) 


GROUP    INVARIANCE   OR   TOTAL   SYMMETRY  1453 

numbers  of  zeros  and  ones  as  in  Table  VI (a).  For  such  a  matrix  it  is  not 
clear  which  variables  should  be  primed.  It  is  possible  to  avoid  considering 
all  possible  primings  by  "expanding"  the  transmission  about  one  of  the 
variables  by  means  of  the  theorem 

T{xi  ,x.2,  ■■■  Xn)  =  XiT{l,  X,,  ■■■  x„)  +  x,'T(0,  x., ,  ■  ■  ■  XnY-' 

and  then  making  use  of  the  relation: 

*^ai   1  a->   1    '  '  '    amv^'l  )    •^'''  )    "  *  '    "^n) 

=    Xik!)ai_i  ,  a-z—l  )  ao— 1  >    '  '  '    a„— IV-^'s  j    '  '  '   X^J 

4-   XiSa^   ,  a-,  ,    •••<!„   ^'2  ,    •  ■  •   Xn)^ 

This  technique  is  illustrated  in  Table  \1.  The  standard  matrix  for 
^(l,  Xo ,  Xz  ,  .T4)  has  three  rows  each  containing  a  single  one  so  that 

7X1,  X2  ,  Xi ,  X4)  =  Siix2,  X3,  Xi) 

The  transmission  7'(0,  X2 ,  Xs ,  Xi)  has  an  identical  standard  matrix  so 
that 

i  (0,  X2  ,  X3  ,  Xa)    =    01  (.T2  ,  Xz  ,  X\) 

This  can  be  written  in  terms  of  Xt\  x/,  and  Xi  : 

Sl{X2  ,  X3  ,  Xi)    =    S2iX2,  Xs,  Xi^. 

Finally 

T{Xi  ,  X2  ,  X3  ,  Xi)    =   XiT{\,  X2  ,  X;  ,  Xi)   +  XiT{0,  X2  ,  Xz  ,  Xi) 

=    XiSi{X2,  Xi,  Xi)    +   XiS2{X2,  Xz,  Xi)    =    S2{Xi  ,  X2,  Xs,  Xi).* 

The  method  just  presented  for  detecting  total  symmetry  is  more  sys- 
tematic than  the  only  other  available  method''  and  applies  for  transmis- 
sions of  any  number  of  variables. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1.  Birkhoff,  G.,  and  MacLane,  S.,  A  Survej'  of  Modern  Algebra,  The  MacMillan 

Company,  New  York. 

2.  Shannon,  C.  E.,  The  Synthesis  of  Two-Terminal  Switching  Circuits,  B. S.T.J. , 

28,  pp.  59-98,  1949. 

3.  Shannon,  C.  E.,  A  Symbolic  Analysis  of  Relay  and  Switching  Circuits,  Trans. 

A.I.E.E.,  57,  pp.  713-723,  1938. 

4.  Keister,  W.,  Ritchie,  A.  E.,  Washburn,  S.,  The  Design  of  Switching  Circuits, 

New  York,  L).  Van  Nostrand  Company,  Inc.,  1951. 

5.  Caldwell,  S.  H.,  The  Recognition  and  Identification  of  Symmetric  Switching 

Circuits,  Trans.  A.I.E.E.,  73,  Part  I,  pp.  142-146,  1954. 

*  This  technique  for  transmission  matricies  having  an  equal  number  of  zeros 
and  ones  in  all  columns  was  brought  to  the  author's  attention  bj'  Wayne  Kellner, 
a  student  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technologj'. 


Bell  System  Technical  Papers  Not 
Published  in  This  Jovirnal 

Anderson,  O.  L.^ 

Effect  of  Pressure  on  Glass  Structure,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  943-949, 
Aug.,  1956. 

Anderson,  P.  W.^ 

Ordering  and  Antiferromagnetism  in  Ferrites,  Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp. 
1008-1013,  May  15,  1956. 

Anderson,  P.  W.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 

Arnold,  S.  M.,^  and  Koonce,  S.  Eloise^ 

Filamentary  Growths  of  Metals  at  Elevated  Temperatures,  J.  Appl. 
Phys.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  27,  p.  964,  Aug.,  1956. 

Bonneville,  S.,  See  Noyes,  J.  W. 

Bridgers,  H.  E.^ 

The  Formation  of  P  N  Junctions  in  Semiconductors  by  the  Variation 
of  Crystal  Growth  Parameters,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  746-751,  July, 
1956. 

BozoRTH,  R.  M.,1  WiLLL\MS,  H.  J.,^  and  Walsh,  Dorothy  E.^ 

Magnetic  Properties  of  Some  Orthoferrites  and  Cyanides  at  Low 
Temperatures,  Phys.  Rev.,  103,  pp.  572-578,  August  1,  1956. 

Chase,  F.  H.^ 

Power  Regulation  by  Semiconductors,  Else.  Engg.,  75,  pp.  818-822, 
Sept.,  1956. 

Chen,  W.  H.,  see  Lee,  C.  Y. 


Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

1454 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  1455 

Chynoweth,  a.  G.^ 

Spontaneous  Polarization  of  Guanidine  Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexa- 
hydrate  at  Low  Temperatures,  Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp.  1021-1023,  May 
15,  1956. 

Cook,  R.  K.^  and  Wasilik,  J.  H.^ 

Anelasticity  and  Dielectric  Loss  of  Quartz,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp. 
83G-837,  July,  1956. 

Darrow,  K.  K,^ 
Electron  Physics  in  America,  Physics  Today,  9,  pp.  23-27,  Aug.,  1956 

David,  E.  E.,  Jr.i 

Naturalness  and  Distortion  in  Speech  Processing  Devices,  J.  Acous. 
See.  Am.,  28,  pp.  586-589,  July,  1956. 

David,  E.  E.,  Jr.,^  and  McDonald,  H.  S.^ 

A  Bit-Squeezing  Technique  Applied  to  Speech  Signals,  I.R.E.  Con- 
vention Record,  4,  Part  4,  pp.  118-153,  July,  1956. 

Dewald,  J.  F.^  and  Lepoutre,  G.^ 

I  —  The  Thermoelectric  Properties  of  Metal-Ammonia.  II  —  The 
Thermoelectric  Power  of  Sodium  and  Potassium  Solutions  at  —78° 
and  the  Effect  of  Added  Salt  on  the  Thermoelectric  Power  of  Sodium 
at  —33°.  Ill — ^  Theory  and  Interpretation  of  Results,  J.  Am.  Chem. 
Soc,  78,  pp.  2953-2962,  July  5,  1956. 

Eder,  M.  J.,  see  Veloric,  H.  S. 

Embree,  M.  L.,^  and  Williams,  D.  E.^ 

An  Automatic  Card  Punching  Transistor  Test  Set,  Proc.  1956  Elec- 
tronic Components  Symposium,  pp.  125-130,  1956. 

Farrar,  H.  K.,  see  Maxwell,  J.  L. 

Feher,  G.^ 

Method  of  Polarizing  Nuclei  in  Paramagnetic  Substances,  Phys. 
Rev.,  Letter  to  the  Editor,  103,  pp.  500-501,  July  15,  1956. 


^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 


145G       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Feher,  G.,^  and  Gere,  E.^ 

Polarization  of  Phosphorus  Nuclei  in  Silicon,  Phys.  Rev.,  Letter  to 
the  Editor,  103,  pp.  501-503,  July  15,  1956. 

Freynik,  H.  S.,  see  Gohn,  G.  R. 

Fthenakis,  E.i 

A  Voltage  Regulator  Using  High  Speed  of  Response  Magnetic  Am- 
plifiers With  Transistor  Driver,  Proc.  Special  Tech.  Conf.  on  Mag- 
netic Amplifiers,  T-86,  pp.  185-199,  July,  1955. 

Gaudet,  G.,  see  Noyes,  J.  W. 

Geller,  S.,1  and  Wood,  Mrs.  E.  A.,^ 

Crystallographic  Studies  of  Perovskite-Like  Compounds.  I  —  Rare 
Earth  Orthoferrites  and  YFeO.i ,  YCrO;i ,  YAIO3 ,  Acta  Crys.,  9,  pp. 
563-568,  July  10,  1956. 

Gere,  E.,  see  Feher,  G. 

Gianola,  U.  F.,^  and  James,  D.  B.' 

Ferromagnetic  Coupling  Between  Crossed  Coils,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27» 
pp.  608-609,  June,  1956. 

Gilbert,  E.  N.^ 

Enumeration  of  Labelled  Graphs,  Canadian  J.  of  Math.,  8,  pp.  405- 
•411,  1956. 

Gohn,  G.  R.^ 

Fatigue  and  Its  Relation  to  the  Mechanical  and  Metallurgical  Proper- 
ties of  Metals,  SAE  Trans.,  64,  pp.  31-40,  1956. 

Gohn,  G.  R.,^  Freynik,  H    S.,*  and  Guerard,  J.  P.^ 

The  Mechanical  Properties  of  Wrought  Phosphor  Bronze  Alloys, 
A.S.T.M.  Special  Tech.  Pub.,  STP  183,  pp.  1-114,  Jan.,  1956. 

Guerard,  J.  P.,  see  Gohn  G.  R. 

H  ANN  AY,  N.   B.^ 

Recent  Advances  in  Silicon — -Progress  in  Semiconductors,  Book,  1, 
pp.  1-35,  1956.  (Published  by  Heywood  &  Co.,  Ltd.,  London) 

'  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

*  Riverside  Metal  Co.,  Div.,  H.  K.  Porter  Co.,  Inc.,  Riverside,  N.  J. 


TECHNICAL   PAPERS  1457 

IToLDEN,  A.  N.,*  Matthias,  B.  T./  Anderson,  P.  W.,'  and  Lewis, 
H.  W.i 

New  Low-Temperature  Ferromagnets,  Phys.  Rev.,  102,  p.  1463,  June 
15,  195G. 

Huntley,  H.  R.^ 

The  Present  and  Future  of  Telephone  Transmission,  Elec.  Engg., 
75,  pp.  G8G-G92,  Aug.,  195G. 

James,  D.  B.,  see  Gianola,  U.  F. 

Jones,  H.  L.^ 

A  Blend  of  Operations  Research  and  Quality  Control  in  Balancing 
Loads  on  Telephone  Equipment,  Trans.  Am.  Soe.  Quality  Control 
(195G  Montreal  Convention). 

Kaminow,  L  p.,  see  Kircher,  R.  J. 

KiRCHER,  R.  J.^  and  Kaminow,  L  P.^ 

Super-Regenerative  Transistor  Oscillator,  Electronics,  29,  pp.  1G6- 
167,  July,  1956. 

Kretzmer,  E.  R.^ 

Reduced-Alphabet  Representation  of  TV  Signals,  LR.E.  Convention 
Recortl,  4,  Part  4,  pp.  140-147,  1956. 

KooNCE,  S.  Eloise,  see  Arnold,  S.  M. 

Lee,  C.  Y.,1  and  Chen,  W.  H." 

Several-Valued  Combinational  Switching  Circuits,  Commun.  and 
Electronics,  25,  pp.  278-283,  July,  1956. 

LePoutre,  G.,  see  Dewald,  J.  F. 

Lewis,  H.  W.^ 

Two-Fluid  Model  of  an  "Energy-Gap"  Superconductor,  Phys.  Rev., 
102,  pp.  1508-1511,  June  15,  1956. 

Lewis,  P.  W.,  see  Holden,  A.  N, 

^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

2  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company. 

*  Universit.y  of  Florida,  Gainesville,  Fla. 

9  Illinois  Bell  Telephone  Company,  Chicago,  111. 


1458       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Manley,  J.  M.,1  and  Rowe,  H.  E.^ 

Some  General  Properties  of  Non-Linear  Elements.  Part  1  —  Gen- 
eral Energy  Relations,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  904-913,  July,  1956. 

Matthias,  B.  T.,  see  Holden,  A.  N.;  Wood,  E.  A. 

Maxwell,  J.  L.,^  and  Farrar,  H.  K.^ 

Automatic  Dispatch  System  for  Teletypewriter  Lines,  Elec.  Engg., 
75,  p.  705,  Aug.,  1956. 

McDonald,  H.  S.,  see  David  E.  E. 

McClean,  D.  A.i  and  Power,  F.  S.^ 

Tantalum  Solid  Electrolytic  Capacitors,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  44,  pp.  872- 
878,  July,  1956. 

McMahon,  W.i 

Dielectric  Effects  Produced  by  Solidifying  Certain  Organic  Compounds 
in  Electric  or  Magnetic  Fields,  J.  Am.  Chem.  See,  78,  pp.  3290-3294, 
July  20,  1956. 

Merz,  W.  J.i 

Effect  of  Hydrostatic  Pressure  on  the  Hysteresis  Loop  of  Guanidine 
Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexahydrate,  Phys.  Rev.,  103,  pp.  565-566,  Aug. 
1,  1956. 

Merz,  W.  J.^ 

Switching  Time  in  Ferroelectric  BaTiO^  and  Its  Dependence  on 
Crystal  Thickness,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  938-943,  Aug.  1,  1956. 

Nelson,  L.  S.^ 

Windowed  Dewar  Vessels  for  Use  at  Low  Temperatures,  Rev.  Sci. 
Instr.,  27,  pp.  655-656,  Aug.,  1956. 

NoYES,  J.  W.,^  Gaudet,  G.,^  and  Bonneville,  S.^ 

Development  of  Transcontinental  Communications  in  Canada,  Com- 
mun.  and  Electronics,  25,  pp.  342-352,  July,  1956. 


1  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

^  Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Canada,  Ltd.,  Montreal,  Que.,  Canada. 

^  Pacific  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co.,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 


TECHNICAL    PAPERS  1459 


PiLLioD,  J.  J.- 


Clinton R.  Hanna  1955  Lamme  Medalist  —  History  of  the  Metal, 
i       Elec.  Engg.,  75,  p.  706,  Aug.,  1956. 

Power,  F.  S.,  see  McLean,  D.  A. 

Prince,  IM.  B.,  see  Veloric,  H.  S. 

RiNEY,  T.   D.i 

On  the  Coefficients  in  Asymptotic  Factorial  Expansions,  Proc.  of  Am. 
Math.  Soc,  7,  pp.  245-249,  Apr.,  1956. 

RowE,  H.  E.,  see  Manley,  J.  M. 

SlIULMAN,   R.  G.^ 

Hole  Trapping  in  Germanium  Bombarded  by  High-Energy  Electrons, 
Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp.  1451-1455,  .June  15,  1956. 

Shulman,  R.  G.,^  and  Wyluda,  B.  J.' 

Copper  in  Germanium;  Recombination  Center  and  Trapping  Center, 
Phys.  Rev.,  102,  pp.  1455-1457,  June  15,  1956. 

Slighter,  W.  P.^ 

On  the  Morphology  of  Highly  Crystalline  Polyethylenes,  J.  Poly.  Sci., 
21,  pp.  141-143,  July,  1956. 

Tien,  P.  K.i 

A  Dip  in  the  Minimum  Noise  Figure  of  Beam-Type  Microwave 

Amplifiers,  Proc.  I.R.E.,  Correspondence  Sec,  44,  p.  938,  July,  1956. 

Veloric,  H.  S.,i  Eder,  M.  J.,i  and  Prince,  M.  B.^ 

Avalanche  Breakdown  in  Silicon  Diffused  P-N  Junctions  as  a  Func- 
tion of  Impurity  Gradient,  J.  Appl.  Phys.,  27,  pp.  895-899,  August, 
1956. 

Walsh,  Dorothy  E.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Wasilik,  J.  H.,  see  Cook,  R.  K. 


^  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc. 

^  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company, 


14G0       THE    BELL    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    195G 

Wernick,  J.  H.i 

Determination  of  Diffusivities  in  Liquid  Metals  by  Means  of  Tern 
perature-Gradient  Zone-Melting,  J.  Chem.  Phys.,  25,  pp.  47-49 
July,  1956. 

Wilkinson,  R.  I.^ 

Beginnings  of  Switching  Theory  in  the  United  States,  Elec.  Engg., 
75,  pp.  796-802,  Sept.,  1956. 

Williams,  D.  E.,  see  Embree,  M.  L. 

Williams,  H.  J.,  see  Bozorth,  R.  M. 

Wood,  Mrs.  E.  A.^ 

Guanidinium  Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexahydrate;  Crystallographic  Data, 
Acta  Crys.,  9,  pp.  618-619,  July  10,  1956. 

Wood,  Mrs.  E.  A.^ 

The  Question  of  a  Phase  Transition  in  Silicon,  J.  Phys.  Chem.,  60, 
p.  508,  1956. 

Wood,  Mrs.  E.  A.,'  and  Matthias,  B.  T.' 

Crystal  Structures  of  NbAu  and  Vi^Au,  Acta  Crys.,  9,  pp.  534,  June 
10,  1956. 

Wood,  E.  A.,  see  Geller,  S. 

Wyluda,  B.  J.,  see  Shulman,  R.  G. 
1  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 


ecent  Monographs  of  Bell  System  Technical 
Papers  Not  Published  in  This  Journal 

I  Albrecht,  E.  G.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Anderson,  P.  W. 

Ordering  and  Antiferromagnetism  in  Ferrites,  Monograph  2636. 

Baker,  W.  O.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 

Bennett,  W.  R.,  see  Pierce,  J.  R. 

BOGERT,  B.   P. 

The  Vobanc  —  A  Two-to-One  Speech  Bandwidth  Reduction  System, 
Monograph  2643. 

BoMMEL,  H.  E.,  Mason,  W.  P.,  and  Warner,  A.  W. 

Dislocations,  Relaxations,  and  Anelasticity  of  Crystal  Quartz,  Mono- 
graph 2618. 

BoYET,  H.,  see  Weisbaum,  S. 

Bullard,  W.  R.,  Weppler,  H.  E.,  Albrecht,  E.  G.,  Dietz,  A.  E., 
Christoferson,  E.  W.,  Slothower,  J.  E.,  Ellis,  H.  M.,  Phelps,  J. 
W.,  Roach,  C.  L.,  and  Treen,  R.  E. 

Co-Ordinated  Protection  for  Open-Wire  Joint  Use  —  Trends  and 
Tests,  Monograph  2662. 

Christoferson,  E.  W.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Chynoweth,  a.  G. 

Spontaneous  Polarization  of  Guanidine  Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexa- 
hydrate  at  Low  Temperatures,  Monograph  2645. 


*  Copies  of  these  monographs  ma_v  be  obtained  on  request  to  the  Publication 
Department,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.,  463  West  Street,  New  York  14, 
N.  Y.  The  numbers  of  the  monographs  should  be  given  in  all  requests. 

1461 


1462     the  bell  system  technical  journal,  november  1956 

Chynoweth,  a.  G. 

Surface  Space-Charge  Layers  in  Barium  Titanate,  Monograph  2628. 

Chynoweth,  A.  G.,  and  McKay,  K.  G. 

Photon  Emission  from  Avalanche  Breakdown  in  Silicon,  Monograph' 
2619. 

Dacey,  G.  C.,  see  Thomas,  D.  E. 

Danielson,  W.  E.,  Rosenfeld,  J.  L.,  and  Saloom,  J.  A. 

Analysis  of  Beam  Formation  with  Electron  Guns  of  the  Pierce  Type, 

]\Ionograph  2609. 

Darlington,  S. 

A  Survey  of  Network  Realization  Techniques,  IMonograph  2620. 

DiETZ,  A.  E.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Ditzenberger,  J.  A.,  see  Fuller,  C.  S. 

Dudley,  H.  W. 
Fundamentals  of  Speech  Synthesis,  Monograph  2648. 

Ellis,  H.  M.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Fuller,  C.  S.,  and  Ditzenberger,  J.  A. 

Diffusion  of  Donor  and  Acceptor  Elements  in  SiHcon,  Monograph 
2651. 

GiANOLA,  U.  F.,  and  James,  D.  B. 
Ferromagnetic  Coupling  Between  Crossed  Coils,  Monograph  2653. 

Harrower,  G.  a. 

Auger  Electrons  in  Energy  Spectra  of  Secondary  Electrons  from  Mo 
and  W,  Monograph  2621 . 

Heidenreich,  R.  D. 

Thermionic  Emission  Microscopy  of  Metals,  Monograph  2445. 

HoLDEN,  A.  N.,  Merz,  W.  J.,  Remeik.\,  J.  P.,  and  Matthias,  B.  T. 

Properties  of  Guanidine  Aluminum  Sulfate  Hexahydrate  and  Some 
of  Its  Isomorphs,  Monograph  2580. 


MONOGRAPHS  1463 

HuTsoN,  A.  E. 

Effect  of  Water  Vapor  on  Germanium  Surface  Potential,  Monograph 
2023. 

James,  D.  B.,  see  Gianola,  U.  F. 

Kaminow,  I.  P.,  see  Kircher,  R.  J. 

IVATZ,   D. 

A  Magnetic  Amplifier  Switching  Matrix,  Monograph  2654. 

Kelly,  M.  J. 

The  Record  of  Profitable  Research  at  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories, 
Monograph  2663. 

KiRCHNER,  R.  J.,  and  Kaminow,  I.  P. 

Superregenerative  Transistor  Oscillator,  Monograph  2664. 

Logan,  R.  A.,  see  Thurmond,  C.  D. 

Mason,  W.  P.,  see  Bomniel,  H.  E. 

Matthl\s,  B.  T.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 

McKay,  K.  G.,  see  Chynoweth,  A.  G. 

McSkimin,  H.  J. 

Propagation  of  Longitudinal  and  Shear  Waves  in  Rods  at  High  Fre- 
quencies, Monograph  2637. 

Merz,  W.  J.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 

Pearson,  G.  L. 

Electricity  from  the  Sun,  Monograph  2658. 

Phelps,  J.  W. 

Protection  Problems  on  Telephone  Distribution  Systems,  Monograph 
2631. 

Phelps,  J.  W.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Pierce,  J.  R.,  and  Bennett,  W.  R. 

Noise  —  Physical  Sources;  and  Methods  of  Solving  Problems,  Mono- 
graph 2624. 


1464     the  bell  system  technical  journal,  november  1956 

Prince,  E. 

Neutron  Diffraction  Observation  of  Heat  Treatment  in  Cobalt  Fer- 
rite,  Monograph  2632. 

Reiss,  H. 

P-N  Junction  Theory  by  the  Method  of  6-Functions,  Monograph  2638 
Remeika,  J.  P.,  see  Holden,  A.  N. 
Rice,  S.  0. 

A  First  Look  at  Random  Noise,  Monograph  2659. 
Roach,  C.  L.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 
RosENFELD,  J.  L.,  866  Danielson,  W.  E. 
Saloom,  J.  A.,  see  Danielson,  W.  E. 
Slothower,  J.  E.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 
Theuerer,  it.  C. 

Purification  of  Germanium  Tetrachloride  by  Extraction  with  Hydro- 
chloric Acid  and  Chlorine,  Monograph  2639. 

Thomas,  D.  E.,  and  Dacey,  G.  C. 

Application  Aspects  of  Germanium  Diffused  Base  Transistor,  Mono- 
graph 2660. 

Thurmond,  C.  D.,  and  Logan,  R.  A. 

Copper  Distribution  Between  Germanium  and  Ternary  Melts  Sat- 
urated with  Germanium,  Monograph  2640. 

Treen,  R.  E.,  See  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Warner,  A.  W.,  see  Bommel,  H.  E. 

Weisbaum,  S.,  and  Boyet,  H. 

Broadband    Nonreciprocal    Phase    Shifts  —  Two    Ferrite    Slabs    in 
Rectangular  Guide,  Alonograph  2642. 

Weppler,  H.  E.,  see  Bullard,  W.  R. 

Winslow,  F.  H.,  Baker,  W.  O.,  and  Yager  W.  A. 

The  Structure  and  Properties  of  Some  Pyrolyzed  Polymers,  Mono- 
graph 2572. 

Yager,  W.  A.,  see  Winslow,  F.  H. 


Contributors  to  This  Issue 

C.  F.  Edwards,  B.A.  1929  and  M.A.  1930,  Ohio  State  University; 
A.  T.  &  T.  Co.  1930-34;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1935-  Research 
in  transoceanic  short  wave  transmission,  transoceanic  short  wave  trans- 
mission using  multiple  unit  steerable  antenna  receiving  system,  wave- 
guide cii'cuit  design,  frequency  converters  for  microwave  radio  relay 
systems  and  time  division  multiplex  telephone  system.  Author  of  articles 
published  in  I.R.E.  Proceedings.  Member  of  I.R.E. 

Joseph  P.  Laico,  M.E.,  Brooklyn  Polytechnic  Institute,  1933;  Gen- 
eral Drafting  Company,  1920-23;  American  Machine  and  Foundry  Com- 
pany, 1923-29;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1929-.  Supervision  in  the 
field  of  mechanical  design  and  development  of  electronic  devices  is  Mr. 
Laico's  occupation  at  the  Laboratories.  He  holds  some  twenty  patents, 
all  in  electronic  devices,  and  is  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

E.  J.  McCluskey,  Jr.,  A.B.,  1953,  Bowdoin  College,  B.S.  and  M.S. 
1953  and  Sc.D.  1956,  M.I.T.;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  co-operative 
student,  1950-52;  M.LT.  research  assistant  and  instructor,  1953-55; 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1955-.  Research  in  connection  with  elec- 
tronic switching  systems.  Non-resident  instructor  at  M.I.T.,  summer 
195G.  Lecturer  at  C.C.N.Y.,  1956.  Member  of  I.R.E.,  Phi  Beta  Kappa, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Hunter  L.  McDowell,  B.E.E.,  Cornell  University,  1948;  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  1948-.  At  the  Laboratories,  Mr.  McDowell  has  been 
principally  engaged  in  vacuum  tube  development,  particularly  traveling 
wave  amplifiers.  He  is  a  member  of  I.R.E. 

Samuel  P.  Morgan,  B.S.  1943,  M.S.  1944  and  Ph.D.  1947,  Cali- 
fornia Institute  of  Technology;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1947-.  A 
research  mathematician,  Dr.  Morgan  specializes  in  electromagnetic 
theory.  Studies  in  problems  of  waveguide  and  coaxial  cable  transmission 
and  microwave  antenna  theory.  Member  of  the  American  Physical 
Society,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi  and  I.R.E. 

1465 


1466       THE    BELL   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    NOVEMBER    1956 

Clarence  R.  Moster,  B.E.E.,  Alabama  Polytechnic  Institute,  1942; 
S.M.,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology,  1947;  Naval  Research' 
Laboratory,  1942-45;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1947-.  Mr.  Moster's 
main  work  at  the  Laboratories  has  been  in  vacuum  tube  development, 
specializing  in  microwave  tubes.  Member  of  Institute  of  Radio  En- 
gineers, Sigma  Xi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu  and  Phi  Kappa  Phi.  I' 

W.  T.  Read,  Jr.,  B.S.  1944,  Rutgers  and  M.S.  1948,  Brown  Uni- : 
versity;  National  Defense  Research  Committee,  1943-46;  Engaged  in 
air-blast  and  earth-shock  tests  at  Princeton  University  Station  and  ( 
measurements  of  air  blast  at  Bikini  atom  bomb  tests;  Bell  Telephone 
Laboratories,  1947-.  Photoelastic  and  mathematical  stress  analysis.  Dis-  { 
location  theory  and  problems  of  plastic  deformation  were  early  studies. 
Later  involved  with  theory  of  flow  and  space  charge  of  holes  and  elec- 
trons and  with  electrical  and  mechanical  effects  of  dislocations  and  other 
imperfections  in  semiconductors.  Author  of  "Dislocations  in  Crystals," 
McGraw-Hill,  1953.  Member  of  Phi  Beta  Kappa. 

William  Merlin  Sharpless,  B.S.  in  E.E.  1928  and  Professional  En- 
gineering in  E.E.  1951,  University  of  Minnesota;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, 1928-.  Studies  of  optical  behaviors  of  the  ground  for  short  radio 
waves,  artificial  ground  systems  for  short  wave  reception,  angle  of  arrival 
of  transatlantic  short  wave  signals,  multiple  unit  steerable  antenna  sys- 
tem, microwave  radio  circuits,  noise  factors  in  microwave  silicon  recti- 
fiers, broad  band  balanced  and  unbalanced  crystal  converters,  radar, 
propagation  of  microwaves  over  land  paths,  angle  of  arrival  of  micro- 
waves, and  antenna  systems  and  artificial  dielectrics  for  microwaves. 
Several  patents.  Published  papers  on  short  radio  waves  and  microwaves. 
Member  of  American  Physical  Society  and  Scientific  Research  Society 
of  America.  Senior  member  of  I.R.E. 

James  A.  Young,  Jr.,  B.S.  1943,  California  Institute  of  Technology; 
Radio  Officer,  U.  S.  Army  Signal  Corps,  1943-1946;  Jet  Propulsion  Labo- 
ratory of  California  Institute  of  Technology,  1946-1947;  Ph.D.  1953, 
University  of  Washington;  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  1953-.  Con- 
cerned primarily  with  low  loss  circular  electric  mode  waveguide.  Member 
of  American  Physical  Society,  Sigma  Xi  and  I.R.E. 

r 


HE      BELL     SYSTEM 

Uechnical  ournal 

[voted  to  the  scientific^^^  and   engineering 
pects  of  electrical  communication 


ADVISORY  BOARD 

A.  B.  GoETZE  M.  J.  Kelly 

E.  J.  McNebly 

EDITORIAL  COMMITTEE 

B.  McMiLLAX,  Chairman 
S.  E.  Brillhart  E.  I.  Green 

A.  J.   BUSCH  H.  K.  HONAMAN 

L.  R.  Cook  H.  R.  Huntley 

A.  C.  DicKiEsoN  F.  R.  Lack 

R.  L.  DiETzoLD  J.  R.  Pierce 

K.  E.  Gould  G.  N.  Thayer 


EDITORIAL  STAFF 

J.  D.  Tebo,  Editor  R.  L.  Shepherd,  Production  Editor 

KANSAS  CITY,  MO. 
INDEX  PUBl/- y 

FFR  1  '^  1Q57 
VOLUME  XXXV  I  i^u  ±o  \^ut 

1956 


AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  AND  TELEGRAPH  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK 


LIST  OF  ISSUES  IN  VOLUME  XXXV 

No.  1  January Pages  1-248 

2  March 249-534 

3  May 535-766 

4  July 767-990 

5  September 991-1238 

6  November i-iv,  1239-1466 


Index  to  Volume  XXXV 


lM    See  Amplitude  Modulation 
idam,  Armand  (). 
biographical  material     531 
Crossbar  Tandem  as  a  Lung  Distance 
Switching  System     91-108 
Adda,  L.  P. 
zone  leveler 
development    660 
[Adminstration  Equipment 
translator 
magnetic  drum    741-44;  illus    740 
block  diagram    742 
Admittance 
nonlinear 
frequency 
conversion     1403-16 
Akron,  Ohio 

toll  traffic  graph    429 
Albany,  New  York 

toll  traffic  graphs    427-28 
Algebra     See  Boolean  Algebra 
Alloy 
silicon 
diode 

announcement     661 
Alloy  Junction  Transistor    See  Tran- 
sistor: junction 
Alphabet 
signaling 
binary 
group    203-34 
best    212-15 
defined    207 
properties    204-19 
special  features     203 
Alternate  Routing    See  Routing 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph 
Company 
functions,  primary    422-23 
operating    companies,    see    Operating 
Companies 


Amplifier 

feedback,  negative,  design     296-308 
pulse 
regenerative 
described     1085 
transistorized     1085-1114 
reliability     1085-86 
signal 
binary 

transistorized     1059-84 
summing    308-13 
transistor 
junction 
tetrode 
design    813-40 
traveling  wave    See  Electron  Tube 
Amplitude  Modulation 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
Ml  789     1321-22 
Analog  Systems 
transistor 
junction 

applications     295-332 
Anderson,  H.  W. 
antenna 
parabolic 
design     1208 
rectifier 
wave 

millimeter 
wafer-tj^pe     1397 
Angle,  R. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Antenna 
microwave 
testing 
pulses,  millimicrosecond    45-48 
parabolic 
60-foot  diameter     1199-1208;  illus 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Antenna,  continued 
pulse 

millimicrosecond    45-48 
Apparatus 

reliability  studies 
experiment  time 

reduction,     by     statistical     tech- 
niques    179-202 
Aqueous  Solutions 

semiconductors,  analog}-     637 
Atlantic      Telephone      Cable        See 

Transatlantic  Telephone  Cal)le 
Attenuation 
atmospheric 
wavelengths 
millimeter 
measurement 
radar    907-16 
slope 

unit,  semi-infinite 
phase,  tables    747-49 
wave 
circular 
pipes 

medium-sized 

5-6  mm     1115-28 
small 
5-6  mm     1115-28 
waveguide 
helix    1358 
Attenuator 

coupled  helix     165-67 
Automatic  Machine  for  Testing  Capacitors 
and      Resistance-Capacitance      Net- 
works (C.  C.  Cole,  H.  R.  Shillington) 
1179-98 
Automatic  Manufacturing  Testing  of  Re- 
lay Switching  Circuits   (L.  D.  Han- 
sen)    1155-78 
Automatic  Testing  in  Telephone  Manufac- 
ture (D.  T.  Robb)     1129-54 
Automatic  Testing  of  Transmission  and 
Operational    Functions    of    Intertoll 
Trunks    (H.   H.  Felder,  A.  J.  Pas- 
carella,  H.  F.  Shoffstall)     927-54 

B 

Babcock,  Wallace  C. 

biographical  material     531 

Crosstalk  on  Open-Wire  Lines    515-18 


Bardeen,  John  illus    ii 

biographical  material    iii-iv 
Nobel  Prize  in  Physics,  1956    i-iv 
Base 
diffused 

high-frequency 

transistor  'j 

junction 
p-n-p 

germanium    23-34  I 

Beam     See  Electron  Beam 
Beaton,  Daniel 
antenna 
parabolic 
design     1208 
Beck,  A.  C. 

biographical  material     244 
Waveguide   Investigations    with    Milli- 
microsecond Pulses    35-65 
Bell,  J.  W. 
wave 
electric 
circular 

attenuation     1128 
Bell  Laboratories  Type  M1789  Tube 

See  Electron  Tube:  traveling  wave 
Bell  System 

intertoll  trunks    423 
outside  plant,  see  Outside  Plant  De- 
partment 
Bell  System     Technical     Journal 
advisor}'  board,  see  inside  front  cover 
editorial   committee,  see  inside  front 

cover 
editorial  staff,  see  inside  front  cover 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories 

Nobel  Prizes  in  Physics    i-iv 
Bennett,  A.  L. 
testing 
automatic     1154 
Bennett,  Donald  C. 

biographical  material     762 
Single  Crystals  of  Exceptional  Perfec- 
tion and  Uniformity  by  Zone  Leveling 
637-60 
Bennett,  W.  R. 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 
tetrode    840 


INDEX 


regenenitor 
pulse 
binary 
transistor     1()S4 
iBergwall,  F.  W. 
zone  leveler 
development    660 
BiFiLAR  Helix    See  Helix:  coupled 
Binary  Microwave  Pulse    See  Pulse 
Binary       Pulse       Transmission    See 

Transmission 
Binary  Signaling  Alphabet    See  Al- 
phabet 
Blecher,  Franklin  H. 

biographical  material     531 
Trnnsistor    Circuits    for    AtiaUxj    and 
Digital  Systems    295-332 
Bloomsburg,  Pennsylvania 
automatic  alternate  routing 
schematic     440 
Bodmer,  M.  G. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Bond,  W.  L. 

biographical  material     1233 
Use  of  an  Interference  Microscope  for 
Measurement  of  Extremely  Thin  Sur- 
face Layers     1209-21 
Boolean  Algebra 
circuits 
switching 
design     1417 
invariance 
group 

detection     1445-53 
symmetry 
total 
detection     1445-53 
Bosworth,  R.  H. 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 

tetrode    840 
Brannen,  Miss  M.  J. 
isolator 

field  displacement    896 
Brattain,  Walter  H.  illus    ii 

biographical  material     ii-iii,  1233 


Combined  Measurements   of  Field  Ef- 
fect, Surface  Photo-Voltage  and  Pho- 
to-Conductivity    1019-40 
Distribution  and  Cross-Sections  of  Fast 
Slates  on  Gernianium  Surfaces     1041- 
58 
Nobel  Prize  in  Physics,  1956    i-iv 
transistor 
point-contact 
experiments     770 
Breakdown  Voltage     See  Voltage 
Brooks,  C.  E. 
concentrator 
line,  remote  controlled 
development    293 
Buffalo,  New  York 

toll  traffic  graphs     427-28 
Buhrendorf,  F.  G. 
biographical  material    762 
Laboratory     Model     Magnetic     Drum 
Translator  for  Toll  Suntching  Offices 
707-4 
Burke,  P.  J. 

toll  traffic  study    506 


Cable 
coaxial 
equalization 
phase,  tables 

tabulation     747-49 
translatlantic     See  Transatlantic  Tele- 
phone Cable 
Capacitor 
nonlinear 
frequency 

conversion     1409-11 
testing 
machine 

automatic     1179-98 
Card-0-Matic  Test  Set    See  Test  Set 
Card  Translator    See  Translator 
Carthage,  N. 
transistor 

point-contact 
surface  effects    810 
Center    See  Wire  Center 


6 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Central  Office 
concentrator 
line 

remote  controlled 
circuits     274-86 
defined     250 
Chapman,  A.  G. 

transposition  theory    515 
Chemical  Interactions  among  Defects  in 
Germanium  and  Silicon  (C.  S.  Fuller, 
F.  J.  Morin,  H.  Reiss)     535-636 
Cioffi,  P.  P. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
Ml  789     1343 
Circuit 
concentrator 
line 

remote  controlled     261-70 
switching 
design 

Boolean  algebra     1417 
relay 
testing 

automatic     1155-78 
transistor 
junction 

analog  systems     295-332 
digital  systems    295-332 
translator 

magnetic  drum    725-41 
Circular  Wave    See  Wave 
Class  of  Binary  Signaling  Alphabets  (D. 

Slepian)     203-34 
Clausen,  C.  P. 
antenna 
parabolic 
design    1208 
Clos,  C. 

toll  traffic  study    431,  470 
Coaxial  Cable    See  Cable 
Coil 
relay 
tr-Type 
C  testing 

automatic     1141-48 
UA-type 
testing 
automatic     1141-48 


I 


Y-type 
testing 

automatic     1141-48 
Cole,  C.  C. 
Automatic  Machine  for  Testing  Capa' 
citors     and     Resistance-Capacitance 
Networks     1179-98 
biographical  material     1233 
Collector 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1311-13 
Combined  Measurements  of  Field  Effect, 
Surface    Photo-Voltage    and    Photo 
Conductivity  (W.  H.  Brattain,  C.  G.j. 
B.  Garrett)     1019^0 
Comparator 

voltage    320-27 
Complex  Ion    See  Ion 
Component(s) 
reliability  studies 
experiment  time 

reduction,    bj'    statistical    lechni- 
ques     179-202 
Computer    See  Analog  S3-stems:  Digi- 
tal Systems 
Concentrator 
line 

remote  controlled 
experimental    249-93 
illus    277,  287,  289 
circuits    261-70 

central  office    274-86 
economy    249-93 
field  trials    286-93 
operation     270-74 
power  supply     269-70 
relay 

reed  switch 
traffic  loading 
Conductivity 
modulation 
rectifier 
series  resistance 
See  also  Photoconductivity 
Contact 
transistor 
point-contact 
formed    770-83 
unformed    783-96 


Co- 


f 


252-53 
249-93 


666-70 


INDEX 


ON  VERSION 

frequency 
admittance 

nonlinear     1403-16 
Cook,  J.  S. 
biographical  material     244 
Coupled  Helices     127-78 
CnoNCE,  H.  E. 
amplifier 
pulse 
regenerative 
transistor     1114 
Copper 
plating 
transistor 

point-contact 
surface    776-81 
Copper  Oxide  Rectifier    See  Rectifier 
Cost 

concentrator,  line     249-93 
drums,  magnetic    707 
outside  plant    249-93 
switching     249-93 
See  also  Economy 
Coupled  Helices  (J.  S.  Cook,  R.  Kompf- 

ner,  C.  F.  Quate)     127-78 
Coupled  Helix    See  Helix 
Coupled  Helix  Attenuator    See  At- 
tenuator 
Coupled     Helix     Transducer       See 

Transducer 
Coupler 
stepped 

helices,  coupled     158-59 
tapered 

helices,  coupled     157-58 
Crawford,  Arthur  B. 
biographical  material     985,  1234 
Measiirement  of  Atmospheric  Attenua- 
tion at  Millimeter  Wavelengths    907- 
16 
rectifier 
wave 

millimeter 
wafer-type     1397 
60-Foot  Diameter  Parabolic  Antenna  for 
Propagation  Studies     1199-1208 
Crossbar  Systems 
4-type 

development    423 


5-type 

concentrator 
line 

remote     251-93 
switching  plan     257-61 
tandem 

switching  system,  long  distance 
major  toll  switching  features     91 
See  also     Switching  Systems 
Crossbar  Tandem  as  a  Long  Distance 
Switching    System     (A.     O.     Adam) 
91-108 
Crosstalk 
coupling 

types    515 
measurement    516 
Crosstalk   on   Open-Wire   Lines    (W.    C. 
Babcock,   Miss   E.   Rentrop,    C.    S. 
Thaeler)     515-18 
Crystal 
defects 

interaction    535-636 
diffusion     Sec  Diffusion 
germanium 

acceptor  content 

zone  leveling    638-60 
defects 

interactions,  chemical    535-636 
donor  content 

zone-leveling    638-60 
etched 
field  effect     1019-40 
measurements 

combined     1019^0 
photoconductivity     1019-40 
photo-voltage 
surface     1019-40 
semiconductor  applications 

requirements     641-55 
shaping 

electrolytic     333-47 
surface 
fast  states 

cross-sections     1041-58 
distribution     1041-58 
transistor  forming,  relation     796- 
808 
testing    642-43 
lattice,  see  Lattice 


8 


THE   BELL   TELEPHONE   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Crystal,  continued 
silicon 
defects 

interactions,  chemical    535-636 
diffusion     664-66 

rectifiers     661-84 
diode,  see  Diode 
shaping 
electrolytic    333-47 
shaping 
electrolytic     333-47 
Customer   Direct   Distance    Dialing 

See  Dial  Telephone:  nationwide 
Cutler,  C.  Chapin 
biographical  material     985 
electron  beam  formation,  theory    375 
generator,     pulse,     regenerative,     de- 
velopment   36 
Nature  of  Power  Saturation  in  Travel- 
ing Wave  Tubes    841-76 


Danielson,  W.  E. 
biographical  material     531 
Detailed  Analysis  of  Beam  Formation 
u'ith  Electron  Guns  of  the  Pierce  Type 
375-420 
Data  System    See  Digital  Systems 
Davisson,  Clinton  J. 

biographical  material     iii 
Nobel    Prize    in    Physics,    1937     i,  iii 
Defect 
crystal 
interaction     535-636 
DeLange,  O.  E. 
biographical  material     244 
Experiments    on    the    Regeneration    of 
Binary  Microwave  Pulses    67-90 
Delay 
distortion 
phase 
tables 
tabulation     747-49 
I)elay  Distortion  Repeater    See  Re- 
'  J    peater 


Design 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 
tetrode 


circuit 
switching 
Boolean  algebra     1417 
electron  gun 
Pierce-type    378-79,     399,      402-13 
418-20 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave    867-68 
M1789     1289-91 
isolator 

field  displacement    884-91 
relays    991 
switching  systems 

electronics  in     991-1018 
transistor 
junction 
n-p-n 

base,  diffused     14-21 
emitter,  diffused     14-21 
point-contact     769 
Design  of  Tetrode  Transistor  Amplifier 
(J.  G.  Linvill,  L.  G.  Schimpf)     813- 
40 
Detailed  Analysis  of  Beam  Formation  with 
Electron   Gunds  of  the  Pierce    Type 
(W.  E.  Danielson,  J.  L.  Rosenfeld, 
J.  A.  Saloom)     375-420 
Detection  of  Group  Invariance  or   Total  ' 


1) 


813-40 


Symmetry  of  a  Boolean  Function  (E. 
J.  McCluskey,  Jr.)     1445-53 
DeVido,  R.  W. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Dial  Telephone,  Dialing 
crosstalk,  see  Crosstalk 
direct  distance    955-72 

crossbar  tandem  systems     107-08 
lines,  see  Transmission  Lines 
nationwide 

aspects,  general    93-94 

crossbar   tandem   switching   system 

91-108 
customer  direct 

crossbar  tandem  systems     107-08 
expansion     423 
routing,  see  Routing 
service  requirements    436-37 
translator 
card     716-19 


INDEX 


magnetic  drum     707-45 
trunks 
intertoll 

testing,  automatic     927-54 
operator  distance    965-72 
United  States  statistics    423 
testing,  automatic     1129-54 
traffic,  see  Traffic 

transmission    lines,    see   Transmission 
Lines 
Dickten,  E. 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 

tetrode     840 
Dielectrics 

helices,  coupled,  between     148-50 
Dietzold,  R.  L. 
phase,  tables 

computation     749 
Diffused  Emitter  and  Base  Silicon  Tran- 
sistors    (IVI.     Tanneiil)aum,     1).     E. 
Thomas)     1-22 
Diffused  Junction  Silicon  Diode     See 
Diode 

I    Diffused  p-n  Junction   Silicon  Rectifiers 
(M.  B.  Prince)     661-84 
Diffusion 
crystal 
silicon     664-66 
rectifiers    661-85 
Digital  Systems 
drums,  magnetic     707-45 
transistor 
junction 

applications     295-332 
Digital  Transmission     »See  Transmis- 
sion 
Diode 
junction 
germanium 
large  area 

announcement     661 
temperature    661 
silicon 
diffused 

current-voltage  characteristic 
equations,  basic     688-706 


forward    685-706 
silicon  allo}^ 

announcement     661 
temperature     661 
PIN     See     Diode:    junction:    silicon: 

diffused 
voltage 
breakdown    685 
Diode  Rectifier    See  Rectifier 
Direct    Distance    Dialing    See    Dial 

Telephone 
Distortion 
delay 
phase 
tables 

tabulation    747-49 

Distribution  and   Cross-Sections   of  Fast 

States  on  Germanium  Surfaces  (W.  H. 

Brattain,  C.  G.  B.  Garrett)     1041-58 

Dominant     Mode     Waveguide       See 

Waveguide 
Drum 
magnetic  illus  1007 
access  time    707 
applications    707,  745 
digital -data  storage    707 
features     709-16 
geography    712 
memory  imits    707 
reading    713-16 
speed     107 
switching 
toll 

translator    707-45 
writing    712-13 

E 

Economy 

concentrator,  line     249-93 
outside  plant    249-93 
switching    249-93 
See  also  Cost 
Edwards,  C.  F. 
biographical  material     1465 
Frequency   Conversion  by  Means  of  a 
Nonlinear  Admittance     1403-16 
Effect  of  Surface   Treatments  on  Point- 
Contact  Transistors   (J.  H.  Forster, 
L.  E.  Miller)     767-811 


10 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Elbert,  E.  F. 
rectifier 
wave 
millimeter 
wafer-type     1397 
Electric  Field 
helices,  coupled     139-42,  144-46 
junction 
PIN 
bias 

reversed     1239-84 
Electrolytic  Etching    See  Etching 
Electrolytic  Shaping  of  Germanium  and 

Silicon  (A.  Uhlir,  Jr.)     333-47 
Electron  (s)  and  Holes 
chemical  entities    537-46 
interaction     537-57 
junction 
PIN 
bias 

reversed     1239-84 
Electron  Beam 
amplifier 
traveling  wave 

coupling,  finite,  effects    349-74 
space  charge,  eflects    349-74 
wave 

backward    351-55 
forward    351-55 
electric  field    859-63 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
Ml  789     1298-1303 
formation 
electron  gun 
Pierce -type    375-420 
size 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave    856-58 
spent 

electron  tube 
traveling  wave    846-54 
spreading    388-401 
waves 

growing,   due  to   transverse  veloci- 
ties    109-25 
Electron  Flow 
waves 

growing,   due  to   transverse  veloci- 
ties    109-25 


Electron  Gun 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 

M1789     1298-1303;  illus     1296-97 
Pierce -type 
anode  lens    379-88 
beam 

current  densities    413-16 

formation     375-420 

spreading    388-401 
design    378-79,  399,  402-13,  418-20 
development    377 
Electron  Tube 

gun,  see  Electron  Gun 
microwave 

electron  gun,  see  Electron  Gun 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1285-1346 

illus     1286,  1292-93 

AM  to  PM  conversion     1321-22 

collector     1311-13 

description     1291-1313 

design     1289-91 

electron  beam     1298-1303 

electron  gun     1298-1303;  illus 
1296-97 

gain  calculations     1343-44 

helix     1303-11 

intermodulation     1335-42 

life  expectancy     1342-43 

noise     1328-35 

performance     1313-42 

relaj^  sj'stems 
radio     1285-1346 
amplifier 

equations    355-59 

non-linear  behavior    349  74 

signal,  large,  theory     349-74 
applications     1285 
circuit  elements     129-30 
design    867-68 
dispersive 

helices,  coupled     159-61 
efficiency    841 

measurements    844-46 
electron  beam 

spent    846-54 
helices,  coupled     127-78 
operating  characteristics 

non-linear    841-76 


INDEX 


11 


power  saturation    841-76 
research     1285 
space  charge     854-56 
See  also  Amplifier 
Electronics  in  Telephone  Switching  Sys- 
tems (A.  E.  Joel,  Jr.)     991-1018 
Electroplating 
transistor 
point  contact 
surface 
copper    776-81 
]']mitter 
transitor 
junction 
n-p-n 
diffused     1-22 
Encoder 
voltage 

transistor    327-29 
Equalization 
cable 
coaxial 

phase,  tables 
tabulation     747-49 
dela.v  distortion 

pulses,  milliniicrosecoiid     54-57 
Equipment 
administration,  see  Administration 

l^Ajuipment 
reliability  studies 
experiment  time 

reduction,    by    statistical    techni- 
ques    179-202 
Erhart,  D.  L. 
zone  leveler 
development    660 
Etching 
electrolytic 
crystal 
germanium    333-47 
silicon     333-47 
Experiment  Time 
reliability  studies 
reduction 
statistical  methods     179-202 
Experimental    Remote     Controlled    Line 
Concentrator  (A.  E.  Joel,  Jr.)     249-93 
Experiments     on     the     Regeneration     of 
Binary    Microwave    Pulses     (O.    E. 
DeLange)     67-90 


4-Type  Crossbar  System    See  Crossbar 
Systems 

4A     Toil     Switching     System       See 
Switching  Systems 

5-Type  Crossbar  Systems    See  Cross- 
bar Systems 
56A  Oscillator    See  Oscillator 
425B  Network    See  Network 

Fabrication 
transistor 
junction 
n-p-n 
silicon 

base,  diffused     2-6 
emitter,  diffused     2-6 
p-n-p 
germanium 

base,  diffused     23-24 
Feedback  Amplifier    See  Amplifier 
Felder,  Harry  H. 
Automatic  Testing  of  Transmission  and 
Operational    Functions    of    Intertoll 
Trunks    927-54 
biographical  material    985 
Intertoll  Trunk  Net  Loss  Maintenance 
under  Operator  Distance  and  Direct 
Distance  Dialing    955-72 

Feldman,  C.  B. 
regenerator 
pulse 
binary 

transistor     1084 
Felker,  J.  H. 
amplifier 
pulse 
regenerative 
transistor    1114 
Field     See  Electric  Field 
Field  Displacement  Isolator   (H.  Siedel, 

S.  Weisbaum)     877-98 
Field  Effect 
germanium 
etched 

measurements 

combined     1019-40 


12  THE   BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Finch,  T.  R. 

amplifier 

pulse 

regenerative 
transistor     1114 
transistor  circuit  research    329 
Fleming,  C.  C. 
trunks 
intertoll 
testing 
automatic    954 
Flow     of     Electrons    See     Electron 

Flow 
Forster,  J.  H. 
biographical  material    985 
Effect  of  Surface  Treatments  on  Point- 
Contact  Transistors    767-811 
Forward  Characteristic  of  the  PIN  Diode 

(D.  A.  Kleinman)     685-706 
Foster,  F.  G. 
semiconductors 
defects 
chemical  interactions    613 
Fox,  A.  G. 
ferrite  devices 
nonreciprocal     877 
Frequency 
conversion 
admittance 
nonlinear 

mathematical   analysis     1403-16 
helices,  coupled 
strength    of    coupling    versus    fre- 
quency    142-44 
microwave 
pulses,  binary 

regeneration    67-90 
Frequency  Conversion  by  Means  of  a  Non- 
linear Admittance   (C.  F.  Edwaixls) 
1403-16 
Friis,  Harold  T. 
biographical  material     1234 
rectifier 
wave 
millimeter 
wafer-type     1397 
60-Foot  Diameter  Parabolic  Antenna  for 

Propagation  Studies     1199-1208 
Frisbee,  S.  E. 
testing  machines     1198 


Fuller,  Calvin  S. 

biographical  material     762 
Chemical  Interactions  among  Defects  in 
Germanium  and  Silicon    535-636 
Function 
Boolean 

minimization     1417-44 
prime  implicants     1419-40 
sum,  minimum     1418-19 
writing 
products,  sum  of     1417-44 
transmission 
Boolean 
invariance 
group 

detection     1445-53 
symmetry 
total 
detection     1445-53 

G 

Garrett,  C.  G.  B. 

biographical  material     1234 
Combined  Measurements  of  Field  Ef- 
fect,    Surface      Photo-Voltage      and 
Photo-Conductivity     1019-40 
Distribution  and  Cross-Sections  of  Fast 
States  on  Germanium  Surfaces 
1041-58 
Gellatly,  J.  S. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789    1343 
Generator 
pulse,  regenerative 
block  diagram    37 
development    36-38 
See  also  Regenerator 
Germanium 
crystal,  see  Crystal 
defects 

interactions,  chemical     535-636 
diode,  see  Diode 
zone  leveling    638-68 
apparatus    655-60 
technique    655-60 
zone  refining    637 
Germanium     P-N-P     Transistor    See 

Transistor:  junction 
Germer,  L.  H. 
electron  diffusion  studies    i 


INDEX 


13 


Gibney,  R.  B. 

semiconductor  studies     i 
Glass,  M.  S. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
Ml  789     1343 
Glezer,  L.  L. 
trunks 
intertoU 
testing 
automatic    954 
Goeltz,  Miss  J.  D. 
phase,  tables 
tabulation     749 
Graham,  R.  E. 
information  rate 
interpretation     926 
Grant,  D.  W. 

magnettor,  construction     329 
Gray,  Miss  M.  C. 
semiconductors 
defects 

chemical  interactions     613 
Grossman,  A.  J. 
amplifier 
pulse 

regenerative 
transistor     1114 
Group  Alphabet    See  Alphabet 
Growing  Waves  due  to  Transverse  Veloci- 
ties (J.  R.  Pierce,  L.  R.  Walker)  109- 
25 
Gun     See  Electron  Gun 

H 

Hall,  W.  J. 

toll  traffic  study    506 
Hamming,  R.  W. 
phase,  tables 
tabulation     749 
Hannay,  N.  B. 
semiconductors 
defects 
chemical  interactions    613 
Hansen,  L.  D. 

Automatic    Manufacturing    Testing   of 

Relay  Switching  Circuits     1155-78 
biographical  material     1235 


Harris,  J.  R. 

amplifier 

pulse 

regenerative 
transistor     1114 
Harris,  W.  B. 

magnettor,  construction     329 
Haj'ward,  W.  S. 

toll  traffic  study    506 
Heilos,  L.  J. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
power  saturation    867 
Helix 
coupled     127-78 
applications.  Bell  System     154-67 
attenuator     165-67 
bifilar 

dispersion     146-48 
coupler 
stepped     158-59 
tapered     157-58 
dielectrics  between,  eft'ect     148-50 
field  equations     169-73 
fields     139-42,  144-46 
power  transfer,  maximum     151-52 
solutions,  non-synchronous     137-39 
strength    of    coupling    versus    fre- 
quency    142-44 
transducer     161-65 
transmission  line  equations     133-37 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1303-11 
Helix  Transducer    See  Transducer 
Helix  Waveguide   (S.  B.  Morgan,  J.  A. 

Young)     1347-84 
Henning,  H.  A. 

biographical  material     762 
Laboratory    Model     Magnetic      Drum 
Translator  for  Toll  Switching  Offices 
707-45 
Herbert,  N.  J. 
transistor 
point-contact 
surface  effects    810 
Heterodyne  Conversion  Transducer 

See  Transducer 
High-Frequency   Diffused    Base    Germa- 
nium Transistor  (C.  A.  Lee)     23-34 


14 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    1956 


375 


Hines,  M.  E. 

electron  beam  formation,  theory 
Hogg,  David  C. 

biographical  material    986 
Measurement  of  Atmospheric  Attenua 
tion  at  Millimeter  Wavelengths    907- 
16 
Holder 
rectifier 
wave 

millimeter     1385 
Hole(s)     See  Electron  (s)  and  Holes 
Howard,  L.  F. 
trunks 


intertoll 
testing 
automatic 


954 


Impedance 
helices,  coupled 
modes     152-54 
Impttrity 
semiconductors 

diffusion  into     1-34 
Indianapolis    Works     (Western    Elec- 
tric) 
network 
425B 
testing 

automatic     1135-41 
Information 
storage 

drums,  magnetic     707-45 
See  also  Digital  Systems 
Information  Rate 
interpretation 
new    917-26 
Insulation     See  Dielectric  (s) 
Integrator 

transistor    313-20 
Interconnecting  Network    <See  Net- 
work 
Interference    See  Crosstalk:  Noise 
Interference  Microscope    See  Micro- 
scope 
Intermodulation 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789    1335^2 


Intertoll    Trunk   Xet    Loss   Maintenance 
under  Operator  Distance  and  Direct 
Distance    Dialing    (H.    H.    Felder, 
E.  N.  Little)     955-72 
Ion(s) 
complex- 
formation     557-65 
pairing    565-636 
calculations    578-82 
carrier 
mobility 
effect    601-07 
(by)  diffusion    591-601 
energy  levels     610-11 
relaxation  time    582-91,  607-10 
semiconductors 

phenomena    575-78 
solubility,  effect     613-17 
theories    567-75 
Irwin,  J.  C. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Isolator 
field  displacement    877-98 
illus    878,  890 
design    884-91 


Jakes,  William  C,  Jr. 

biographical  material     1235 
60-Foot  Diameter  Parabolic  Antenna  for 
Propagation  Studies     1199-1208 
Joel,  Amos  E.,  Jr. 

biographical  material     532,  1235 
Electronics     in     Telephone     Switching 

Systems     991-1018 
Experimental  Remote   Controlled  Line 
Concentrator    249-93 
Johnston,  R.  L. 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 

development    684 
Jones,  M.  S. 
transistor 
point-contact 
surface  effects    810 


INDEX 


15 


Jordan,  D.  R. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M17S9     1343 
Junction 
NP    1241-42 
TIN 
bias 

reversed 
electrons  and  holes     1239-84 
Junction  Diode    See  Diode 
Junction  Silicon  Diode    jSee  Diode 
Junction     Tetrode     Transistor    See 

Transistor 
Junction  Transistor    See  Transistor 


Kearney  Works  (Western  Electric) 
coil 
relay 
testing 
automatic     1141-48 
Kell}',  John  L.,  Jr. 

biographical  material     986 
Xew  Interpretation  of  Information  Rate 
917-26 
King,  Archie  P. 

biographical  material     986,  1235 
Observed  5-6mm  Attenuation  for  the  Cir- 
cular  Electric   Wave   in   Small    and 
Medium-Sized  Pipes     1115-28 
Transmission  Loss  Due  to  Resonance  of 
Loosely-Coupled  Modes  in  a  Multi- 
Mode  System    899-906 
Kingsbury,  B.  A. 
phase,  tables 

computation    749 
Kleinman,  David  A. 
biographical  material     763 
Forward    Characteristic    of    the    PIN 
Diode    685-706 
Kleinman,  D.  A. 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 

development    684 
Kompfer,  R. 
biographical  material    244 
Coupled  Helices     127-78 


Kosten,  L. 

toll  traffic  study 


431 


Laboratories    See      Bell      Telephone 

Laboratories 
Laboratory  Model  Magnetic  Drum  Trans- 
lator for  Toll  Switching  Offices  (F.  J. 
Buhrendorf,   H.   A.   Henning,   ().  J. 
Murphy)     707-45 
Laico,  Joseph  P. 

biographical  material     1465 
Medium    Power    Traveling-Wave    Tube 
for     6000-Mc     Radio     Relay      1285 
1346 
Lamont,  J. 
testing 
automatic     1154 
Large-Signal   Theory  of  Traveling-Wave 

Amplifiers  (P.  K.  Tien)     349-74 
Lattice 
crystal 
germanivmi 

zone  leveling     638 
perfection 
zone  leveling    649-55 
Leagus,  Miss  D.  C. 

amplifier,  traveling  wave 
large  signal  theorj-     373 
Lee,  Charles  A. 

biographical  material     245 
High-Frequency    Diffused    Base     Ger- 
manium Transistor    23-34 
Lennon,  Miss  C.  A. 

toll  traffic  study     506 
Leveler    See  Zone  Leveler 
Life  Expectancy 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1342-43 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon    680-83 
reliability  studies 
experiment  time 
reduction,     by     statistical     tech- 
niques    179-202 
Line(s),     transmission     See    Transmis- 
sion Lines 


16 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL  JOURNAL,    1956 


Line  Concentrator    See  Concentrator 
Linvill,  J.  G. 
biographical  material     986 
Design  of  Tetrode  Transistor  Amplifiers 
813-40 
Little,  Edward  N. 

biographical  material     987 
Intertoll  Trunk  Net  Loss  Maintenance 
under  Operator  Distance  and  Direct 
Distance  Dialing    955-72 
Local  Switching    See  Switching 
Long   Distance   Traffic    See   Traffic: 
toll 

M 

M1789    Electron    Tube     See    Electron 

Tube:  traveling  wave 
McCluskey,  E.  J.,  Jr. 

biographical  material     1465 
Detection  of  Group  Invariance  or  Total 
Synnnetry    of    a    Boolean    Function 
1445-53 
Minimization    of    Boolean    Functions 
1417-44 
McDowell,  Hunter  L. 

biographical  material     1465 
Medium   Power    Traveling -Wave    Tube 
for  6000-Mc  Radio  Relay     1285-1346 
McKim,  B. 
trunks 
intertoll 
testing 
automatic     954 
Magnetic  Drum    See  Drum 
Magnetic      Drum      Translator    See 

Translator 
]^  Iaintenance 

switching  systems     1014-16 
trunks 
intertoll 
testing 
automatic     927-54 
Malta,  J.  P. 
semiconductors 
defects 

chemical  interactions     613 
Marcatili,  Enrique  A.  J. 
biographical  material    987 


Transmission  Loss  due  to  Resonance  of 
Loosely-Coupled  Modes  in   a   Multi- 
Mode  System     899-906 
Matrix 
Boolean 
transmission 
invariance     1445-53 
s.ymmetiy     1445-53 
Mead,  Mrs.  Sallie  P. 

toll  traffic  study    506 
Measurement    of    Atmospheric    Attenua- 
tion  at  Millimeter   Wavelengths    (A. 
B.  Crawford,  D.  C.  Hogg)     907-16 
Medium  Power  Traveling-Wave  Tube  for 
6000-Mc  Radio  Relay   (J.  P.  Laico, 
H.    L.    McDowell,    C.    R.    Moster) 
1285-1346 
Melroy,  D.  O. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
Ml  789     1343 
Melting    See  Zone  Melting 
Miami,  Florida 

toll  traffic  7nap    439 
Microscope 
interference 
surface  layers 
measurement     1209-21 
Microwave  Antenna    See  Antenna 
Microwave     Modulator     See     Modu- 
lator 
Microwave  Pulse    See  Pulse 
Microwave  Pulse  Regenerator    See 

Regenerator 
Microwave  Transmission     See  Trans- 
mission 
Microwave  Tube    See  Electron  Tube 
Military  Applications 
transistor 
point-contact    768 
Miller,  Lewis  E. 

biographical  material     987 
Effect  of  Surface  Treatments  on  Point- 
Contact  Transistors    767-811 
Miller,  S.  E. 
ferrite  devices 
nonreciprocal    877 
Millimeter  Wave     See  Wave 
Millimicrosecond  Pulse    See  Pulse 


j!i« 


If 


INDEX 


17 


Minimization   of  Boolean  Fiaictions    (E. 
J.  McCluskey,  Jr.)     1417  44 

MlXXESOTA 

intertoll  trunk  groups,  principal  map 
424 
Mode 

loosely-coupled 
resonance 
transmission 
loss    899-906 
spurious 
resonance    899-906 
Modulation     See    Amplitude    Modula- 
tion; Intermodulation;  Phase  INIodu- 
lation 
Modulator 
microwave 
noise      temperature      requirements 
1404 
rectifier 
point  contact     1403-16 
Molina,  E.  C. 

toll  traffic  study     506 
Moll,  J.  L. 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 
development    684 
Monographs,    recent,    of    Bell    System 
Technical   Papers  not  published  in 
this  Journal    242-43,  527-30,  759-61, 
979-84,  1230-32,  1461-64 
Moore,  H.  R. 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 
development     684 
Morgan,  S.  O. 

semiconductor  studies  i 
Morgan,  Samuel  P. 

biographical  material     1465 
Helix  Waveguide    1347-84 
Morin,  F.  J. 

biographical  material     763 
Chemical  Interactions  among  Defects  in 
Germanium  and  Silicon     535-636 
Moster,  Clarence  R. 

biographical  material     1467 


Medium   Power    Trapcling-W'ave    Tube 

for  6000-Mc  Radio  Relay     1285-1346 

Multi-Mode     Transmission     System. 

See  Transmission  S^ystems 
Murphy,  O.  J. 

biographical  material     763 
Laboratory     Model     Magnetic     Drum 
Translator  for  Toll  Switching  Offices 
707-45 

N 

No.  4  Crossbar  System    See  Crossbar 

System 
Xo.   4A  Toll  Savitching   System    See 

Switching  Systems 
Xo.  5  Crossbar  System    See  Crossbar 

Sj'stems 
No.   56A   Oscillator    See   Oscillator 
No.  425B  Network    See  Network 
X^P  Junction     See  Junction 
N-P-X"     Transistor     See     Transistor: 

junction 
Nationwide    Dialing    See   Dial   Tele- 
phone 
Nationwide  Switching    See  Switching 
Nature  of  Power  Saturation  in  Traveling 

Wave  Tubes  (C.  C.  Cutler)     841-76 
Xeely,  T.  H. 
trunks 
intertoll 
testing 
automatic    954 
X'egative     Feedback    Amplifier    See 

Amplifier 
Network 
425B 
testing 
automatic     1135-41 
interconnecting 

switching  sj^stems    994-98 
resistance-capacitance 
testing 
machine 

automatic     1179-98 
New  Interpretation  of  Information   Rate 

(J.  L.  Kelly,  Jr.)     917-26 
X"ew'  York  City 

toll  traffic  graph    431 


18 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE   SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Newark,  New  Jersey 
toll  traffic  graph    429 
Nobel  Prize  in  Physics 
awards 
1937 
Davisson,  Clinton  J.     i,  iii 
Thompson,  G.  P.     iii 
1956 
Bardeen,  John    i-iv 
Brattain,  Walter  H.     i-iv 
Shockley,  William    i-iv 
Noise 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1328-35 
modulator 
microwave 

temperature  requirements     1404 
Nonlinear    Admittance     See    Admit- 
tance 
Nonlinear   Capacitor    See   Capacitor 
NoNRECiPROCAL    Ferrite    Device    See 

Isolator 
Number     4      Crossbar     System     See 

Crossbar  System 
Number   4A   Toll   Switchinc    System 

See  Switching  Systems 
Number  5  Crossbar  System    See  Cross- 
bar System 
Number    56 A    Oscillator    See    Oscil- 
lator 
Number  425B  Network    See  Network 
Nyquist,  H. 

toll  traffic  study    506 


Observed     5-6mm     Attenuation    for     the 
Circular  Electric  Wave  in  Small  and 
Medium-Sized  Pipes    (A.    P.   King) 
1115-28 
Office    See  Central  office 
Ohl,  R.  S. 

frequency  conversion     1416 
rectifier 
wave 

millimeter 
wafer-type     1397 
semiconductor  studies  i 
Ohmic  Resistance     See  Resistance 


Olsen,  K.  M. 

zone  leveler,  design     655 
Olson,  E.  G. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Open-Wire     Lines     See     Transmission 

Lines 
Operate  Speed 

drum,  magnetic     707 
electronics    993 
relays    995 
Operating  Companies 

functions,  primary     422-23 
Operator  Distance  Dialing    See  Dial 

Telephone 
Oscillator 
56A 

film  scales 

calibration     1148-54 
Outside  Plant  Department 
costs    249 
concentrator 
line 

remote  controlled 
economy    249-93 


PIN  Diode    See  Diode:  junction:  sili 

con:  diffused 
PIN  Junction    See  Junction 
PM     See  Phage  Modulation 
P-N-P     Transistor    See     Transistor: 

junction 
Pairing 

ions    565-636 

calculations    578-82 

carrier 
mobility 
effect    601-07 

(by)  diffusion    591-601 

energy  levels    610-11 

relaxation  time    582-91,  607-10 

semiconductors 

phenomena    575-78 

solubility,  effect    613-17 

theories    567-75 
Parabolic  Antenna    See  Antenna 


INDEX 


19 


Parameter 

design 
transistor 
junction 
n-p-n 
silicon 

base,  diffused 

calculation     14-21 
emitter,  diffused 
calculation     14-21 
rectifier,  millimeter  wave 
wafer-type     1397-1402 
transistor 
amplifier 

performance,  relation     815-26 
Pascarella,  A.  J. 
Automatic  Testing  of  Transmission  and 
Operational    Functions    of    JntertoU 
Trunks     927-54 
biographical  material     988 
Phase  Modulation 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1321-22 
Photoconductivity 
germanium 
etched 
measurements 

combined  "  1019-40 
Photo-Voltage 
surface 
germanium 
etched 
measurements 

combined     1019-40 
Physics    Prize    See    Nobel     Prize    in 

Physics 
Pierce,  John  R. 
amplifier,  traveling  wave 
large  signal  theory    373 
biographical  material     245 
Growing     Waves     due     to     Transverse 
Velocities     109-25 
Pierce-Type  Electron  Gun    See  Elec- 
tron Gun 
Pietruszkiewicz,  A.  J.,  Jr. 
semiconductors 
defects 
chemical  interactions    613 


Pipe    See  Waveguide 
Plant    See  Outside  Plant  Department 
Plating    See  Electroplating 
Point  Contact  Rectifier    See  Rectifier 
Point  Contact  Transistor    See  Tran- 
sistor 
Power  Supply 

concentrator,   line,  remote  controlled, 
experimental     269-70 
Prince,  M.  B. 

biographical  material     764 
Diffused  p-n  Junction  Silicon  Rectifiers 
661-84 
diode 
PIN     706 
Prize    See  Nobel  Prize  in  Physics 
transmission 
rate    917-26 
Propagation 

waveguide,  helix     1355-58 
Pulse 
microwave 
binary 
regeneration    67-90 
testing    69-73 
millimicrosecond 
antenna    45-48 
generation    36-41 
waveguide 
dominant  mode 
testing    35-65 
apparatus    36-43 
regenerative 

generator,  see  Generator 
Pulse  Regenerator    See  Regenerator 
Pulse  Transmission     See  Transmission 


Quate,  C.  F. 

biographical  material    245 
Coupled  Helices     127-78 


R 


Rack,  A.  J. 
regenerator 
pulse 
binary 
transistor 


1084 


20 


THE    BELL  TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Radar 

frequency-modulation 
attenuation 
atmospheric 
wavelengths 
millimeter 
measurement    907-16 
Radio 

propagation 

beyond-the-horizon 
antenna 
parabolic 
60-foot     diameter     1199-1208; 
illus 
relay  systems 
6000  mc 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1285-1346 
Radio    Detection    and    Ranging    See 

Radar 
Raisbeck,  Gordon 
regenerator 
pulse 
binary 
transistor     1084 
Rate     See  Information  Rate 
Read,  W.T.,Jr. 

biographical  material     1466 
Theory    of    Swept    Intrinsic    Structure 
1239-84 
Reading 

magnetic  drum     713-16 
Rectifier 
characteristics,  ideal     662-63 

graph    662 
copper  oxide 

introduction     661 
development 

problems    662-63 
diode 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 
diffused    681-83 
silicon 

diffused    661-84;    illus    671 
design    678-80 

electrical  characteristics    671- 
78 


fabrication     670-71 
life  expectancy    680-83 
reliability    680-83 
point-contact 
wafer-type 
silicon 
waves 

millimeter     1385-1402 
selenium 

introduction     661 
semiconductor 
characteristics,  ideal    662-63 
graph    662 
series  resistance 
control 
conductivity 
modulation     666-70 
wave 
millimeter 
wafer-type     1385-1402 
converter  illus     1390,  1391,  1396 
description     1386-91 
parameters     1397-1402 
performance     1391-94 
wave-wafer  unit  illus     1386 
Reed,  E.  F. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
Ml  789     1343 
Reed,  S.  E. 
rectifier 
wave 

millimeter 
waver-t^-pe     1397 
Reed  Switch  Relay    See  Relay 
Refining    See  Zone  Refining 
Regenerative  Pulse  Generator    See 

Generator 
Regenerative      Repeater    See      Re- 
peater 
Regenerator 
pulse 
binary 

transistorized     1059-84 
microwave    73-82 
description     83-89 
signal 
binary 
transistorized     1059-84 


INDEX 


21 


Reiss,  Howard 
biograpliical  material     764 
Chemical  Interactions  among  Defects  in 
Germanium  and  Silicon     535-636 
Relaxation     Time 
ions 
pairing    582-91,  607-10 
Relay 

design     991 
U-type 
coils 
testing 

automatic     1141-48 
UA-type 
coils 
testing 

automatic     1141-48 
Y-type 
coils 
testing 
automatic     1141-48 
reed  switch  ill  us  253 
concentrator 
line 

remote  controlled     252-53 

speed  995 

Relay,  Radio     See  Rsidio:  relay  sj^stems 

Reliability 

amplifier 

pulse 

regenerative 

transistorized     1085-86 
Bell  System  standards    708 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon    680-83 
switching  sj'stems 
electronic     1016 
transistor     295,  1085 
point-contact     768 
Reliability  Studies 
experiment  time,  reduction 
statistical  methods     179-202 
Rentrop,  Esther  M. 
biographical  material    532 
Crosstalk  on  Open-Wire  Lines     515-18 
Repeater 

delaj^  distortion 


phase,  tables 

tabulation    747-49 
regenerative 

block  diagram     68 
Resistance 
ohmic 
diodes    685 
Resistance-Capacitance         Network 

See  Network 
Resonance 
modes 

loosely-coupled     899-906 
spurious    899-906 
Richardson,  P.  H. 
phase,  tables 

computation     749 
Riley,  J.  F. 
electron    tube 
traveling  wave 
:\I17S9     1343 
Riordan,  J. 

toll  traffic  study    507 
Robb,  D.  T. 
Automatic  Testing  in  Telephone  Manu- 
facture   1129-54 
biographical  material     1236 
Rosenfeld,  Jack  L. 

biographical  material     532 
Detailed  Anahjsis  of  Beam  Formation 
ivith  Electron  Guns  of  the  Pierce  Type 
375-420 
Ross,  I.  M. 
diode 

PIN     706 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 
development    684 
Round  Waveguide    See  Waveguide 
Routing 
alternate 
toll 

administration     441-42 
economics    437-41 
engineering    441-42 

methods,    practical    487-505 
dialing,  nationwide    97-99 
majj,  1965,  96 


22 


THE   BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Rowe,  H.  E. 

frequency  conversion     1416 

RUGGEDNESS 

Bell  System  standards    708 
transistor 
point-contact    768 
Rulison,  R. 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 
development    684 


Saloom,  Joseph  A.,  Jr. 

biographical  material     532 
Saloom,  J.  A. 
Detailed  Analysis  of  Beam  Formation 
with  Electron  Guns  of  the  Pierce  Type 
375-420 
Saloom,  J.  A. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Sandsmark,  P.  I. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789     1343 
Sansalone,  F.  J. 
isolator 
field  displacement    896 
Sawyer,  Baldwin 
biographical  material    764 
Single  Crystals  of  Exceptional  Perfec- 
tion and  Uniformity  by  Zone  Leveling 
637-60 
Scaff,  J.  H. 

semiconductor  studies    i 
Scattaglia,  J.  V. 
regenerator 
pulse 
binary 

transistor     1084 
Scheideler,  C.  E. 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 

tetrode    840 


Schimpf,  L.  G. 
biographical  material    988 
Design  of  Tetrode  Transistor  Amplifiers 
813-40 
Schramm,  F.  W. 
testing 

automatic     1154 
Seidel,  Harold 

biographical  material    988 
Field  Displacement   Isolator    877-98 
Selenium  Rectifier    See  Rectifier 
Semiconductor  (s) ,        Semiconducting 
Materials 
aqueous  solutions,  analogy    537 
impurities 

diffusion  into     1-34 
ions 
pairing 
phenomena    575-78 
leveling,  see  Zone  Leveling 
Xobcl  Prize  in  Physics,     1056    i-iv 
regions 
extrinsic     1239-84 
intrinsic     1239-84 
shaping 
electrolytic     333-47 
mechanical     333 
structure 

swept  intrinsic 
theory     1239-84 
surface 
layers 

measurement    1209-21 
traps 

cross  sections     1041-58 
distribution     1041-58 
zone  leveling,  see  Zone  Leveling 
See  also  Crj'stal;  Diode;  Junction 
Semiconductor  Rectifier    See  Recti- 
fier 
Series  Resistance  Rectifier    See  Rec- 
tifier 
Service    IVIaintenance     See    Mainten- 
ance 
Shannon,  C.  E. 
information  rate 
interpretation    926 
Shaping 
electrolytic 


INDEX 


23 


crystal 

germanium    333-47 
silicon    333-47 
semiconductors    333^7 
Sharpless,  William  M. 

biographical  material     1466 
Wafer-Type  Millimeter  Wave  Rectifiers 
1385-1402 
Shillington,  Harry  R. 
Automatic  Machine  for  Testing  Capaci- 
tors and  Resistance-Capacitance  Net- 
uwrks     1179-98 
biographical  material     1236 
Shockley,  William  illus    ii 
biographical  material     iv 
Nobel  Prize  in  Phj'sics,  1956    i-iv 
Shoffstall,  H.  F. 
Automatic  Testing  of  Transmission  and 
Operational     Functions     of    JnteroU 
Trunks    927-54 
biographical  material    988 
Signal 
binary 

amplification 

transistorized     1059-84 
regeneration 

transistorized     1059-84 
Signaling  Alphabet    See  Alphabet 
Silicon 
crystal,  see  Crystal 
defects 
interactions,  chemical    535-636 
Silicon  Diode    See  Diode 
Silicon  N-P-N  Transistor    See  Trans- 
istor 
Silicon  Rectifier    See  Rectifier 
Single  Crystals  of  Exceptional  Perfection 
and    Uniformity    by    Zone    Leveling 
(D.  C.  Bennett,  B.  Sawyer)     637-60 
60-Foot  Diameter  Parabolic  Antenna  for 
Propagation   Studies    (A.    B.    Craw- 
ford, H.  T.  Friis,  W.  C.  Jakes,  Jr.) 
1199-1208 
Slepian,  David 

biographical  material     245 
Class   of  Binary   Signaling  Alphabets 
203-34  ' 
Smith,  K.  D. 
rectifier 
junction 


p-n 
silicon 
development    684 
Smith,  S.  V. 

testing  machines     1198 
Smits,  Friedolf  M. 
biographical  material     1236 
Use  of  an  Interference  Microscope  for 
Measurement  of  Extremely  Thin  Sur- 
face Layers     1209-21 
Sobel,  Milton 
biographical  material    246 
Statistical  Techniques  for  Reducing  the 
Experimental    Time    in    Reliability 
Studies     179-202 
Solution     See  Aqueous  Solutions 
Speed    See  Operate  Speed 
Spent  Beam    See  Electron  Beam 
Spurious     Modes    See     Mode 
Statistical  Methods 
reliability  studies 
experiment  time,  reduction     179-202 
Statistical    Techniques  for   Reducing   the 
Experiment     Time     in      Reliability 
Stiidies  (M.  Sobel)     179-202 
Stepped  Coupler    See  Coupler 
Stiles,  G.  J. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 

power  saturation     867 
Storage  Systems    See  Digital  Systems 
Summing  Amplifier    See  Amplifier 
Surface 
semiconductor 
layers 

measurement     1209-21 
transistor 
point-contact 
treatments 
effects    767-811 
Surface    Photo-Voltage     See    Photo- 
Voltage 
Swenson,  R.  C. 
rectifier 
junction 
p-n 
silicon 
development    684 
Swept  Intrinsic  Structure     See  Semj- 
c9nductor(s)  J  structure 


24  THE    BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Switch 
waveguide 

structure  illus     1121 
Switching 

background    991 
concentrator 
line 
remote  controlled 
economy    249-93 
knowledge    991 
local 

crossbar  tandem 
application     91-93 
nationwide 

crossbar  tandem 
application    94-97 
toll 

translator 
card    716-19 
magnetic  drum    707^5 
Switching  Systems 
4A  toll 

translation 
card    716-19 
magnetic  drum    708-45 
concentration     249 
control    998-1012 
defined    993 
design 

electronics  in    991-1018 
electronic 

reliability     1016 
electronics  in      991-1018 
equipment  concepts     1012-14 
interconnecting  network    994-98 
long  distance 

crossbar  tandem  as    91-108 
maintenance     1014-16 
See  also  Crossbar  Systems 
^  Syracuse,  New  York 
toll  traffic  7tiap     439 


TWT  See  Electron  Tube:  traveling 
wave 

Tables  of  Phase  of  a  Semi-Infinite  Unit 
Attenuation  Slope  (D.  E.  Thomas) 
747-49 

Tandem  Crossbar  See  Crossbar  Sys- 
tems 


Tannenbaum,  Morris 

biographical  material     246 
Diffused    Emitter    and    Base    Silicon 
Transistors     1-22 
Tape-0-Matic  Test  Set    See  Test  Set 
Tapered  Coupler    See  Coupler 
Technical    Papers,    Bell    System,    not 
published   in    this   Journal     235-41, 
519-26,    751-58,    973-78,     1223-29, 
1454-60 
Telephone    See  Dial  Telephone 
Temperature 
diode 
junction 

germanium    661 
silicon  alloy    661 
modulator 
microwave 
noise     1404 
Tendick,  Frank  H.,  Jr. 

biographical  material     1236 
Transistor  Pulse  Regenerative  Ampli- 
fiers    1085-1114 
Test(s),  Testing 
antenna 
microwave 
pulses,  millimicrosecond    45-48 
circuits 
relay 

switching 
automatic     1155-78 
crystal 

germanium     642-43 
defined     1129-30 
dial  telei)hone 
(in)  manufacture 
automatic     1129-54 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789    1342-43 
manual 

cost     1129-54 
network 
425B 

automatic     1135-41 
oscillator 
56A 

film  scales 

calibration     1148-54 


INDEX 


25 


pulse 
microwave 
Innarj' 
regeneration    69-73 
rectifier 
diode 
junction 
p-n 
silicon    681-83 
relay 
U-type 

automatic     1141-48 
UA-type 

automatic     1 141-48 
Y-type 
automatic     1141-48 
reliability  studies 
experiment  time 

reduction,     by     statistical     tech- 
niques    179-202 
translator 

magnetic  tlrum     744-45 
trunks 
intertoll 
automatic 
operation    927-54 

equipment     929-34;  ill  us     933 
scheme,  basic     937-52 
transmission    927-54 
equipment     929-34;  ilhis    933 
scheme,  basic    937  52 
waveguide 

dominant  mode 

pulses,    millimicrosecond     35-65 
apparatus     36^3 
See  also  Life  expectancy;  Reliability; 
Ruggedness 
Test  Set 
card-o-matic 

relay  circuits     1155-78 
tape-o-matic 
relay  circuits     1155-78 
Test  Machines 
capacitors     1179-98 
development     1129-35 
networks 

resistance -capacitance     1179-98 
requirements     1132-33 
Tetrode   Transistor    See   Transistor: 
junction 


Thaeler,  Charles  S. 

biographical  material    533 

Crosstalk  on  Open-Wire  Lines    515-18 

Theories  for  Toll  Traffic  Engineering  in 

the  U.  S.  A.  (R.  i.  Wilkinson)     421- 

514 

Theory  of  Swept  Intrinsic  Structure  (W. 

T.  Read,  Jr.)     1239-84 
Theurer,  H.  C. 

semiconductor  studies    i 
Thomas,  Donald  E. 

biographical  material     246,  765 
Diffused    Emitter    and    Base    Silicon 

Transistors     1-22 
Tables  of  Phase  of  a  Semi-Infinite  Unit 
Attenuation  Slope    747-49 
Thomas,     L.     C. 
amplifier 
pulse 

regenerative 
transistor     1114 
Thompson,  G.  P. 

Nobel  Prize  in  Physics,  1937     iii 
Tien,  Ping  King 

biographical  material    533 
Large-Signal  Theory  of  Traveling -Wave 
Amplifiers     349-74 
Toll  Alternate  Routing    See  Routing 
Toll  Switching    See  Switching 
Toll  Traffic    See  Traffic 
Traffic 

concentrator 
line 

remote  controlled     249-93 
routing,  see  Routing 
toll 

Clos,  C,  study    431,470 
engineering 

United  States    421-514 
expansion    423 
Kosten,  L.,  study    431 
overflow 
moments    507-11 
peakedness  443-46;  graph    444 
Wyckoff,  Miss  E.  V.,  study    445 
t ranking     421-514 
Transatlantic  Telephone  Cable 
repeaters 
delay  distortion 
phase,  tables 

tabulation     747-49 


26 


THE   BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Transducer 
helix 

coupled    161-65 
heterodyne     conversion 
nonlinear  element 
admittance     1403-16 
gain     1403-16 
Transistor 
base,  see  Base 
contacts,  see  Contact 
high-frequency  operation 

base  layers,  thin     1 
junction 
alloy 
germanium 
concentrator,  line 

remote  controlled     253 
temperature,  effect    253 
analog   systems,    applications     295- 

332 
digital    systems,    applications     295- 

332 
n-p-n 
silicon 
base,  diffused     1-22 
design     14-21 
electrical     characteristics     6- 

10 
fabrication     2-6 
parameters,    design     14-21 
structure    10-14 
emitter,  diffused     1-22 
design     14-21 
electrical     characteristics     6- 

10 
fabrication     2-6 
parameters,    design     14  21 
structure     10-14 
p-n-p 

germanium 
base,  diffused    23-34 
electrical  characteristics     26- 

33 
fabrication     23-24 
physical     characteristics     24- 
26 
properties     295 
parameter,  see  Parameter 


point-contact 
applications    768 
characteristics 
surface  treatments 
effect    767-811 
demand     768 
dependal)ility     768 
design     769 

electrical  characteristics    768 
knowledge 

empirical     769 
military  applications    768 
physical  properties    769-811 
processing 

surface  effects    767-811 
reliability    768 
ruggedness    768 
power  consumption     295,  1085 
reliability     295,  1085 
size    295,  1085 
surface,  see  Surface 
Transistor  Amplifier    See  Amplifier 
Transistor  Circuits  for  Analog  and  Digi- 
tal Systems  (F.  H.  Blecher)     295-332 
Transistor     Integrator    See     Inte- 

grator 
Transistor  Pulse  Regenerative  Aviplifiers 

(F.  H.  Tendick,  Jr.)     1085-1114 
Transistor     Voltage     Encoder     See 

Encoder 
Transistorized  Binary  Pulse  Regenerator 

(L.  R.  Wrathall)     1059-84 
Translator 
card 
4A  illus     1006 

magnetic     drum     alternative     707, 
709 
magnetic     drum     illus    710 

administration    equipment    741-44 ; 
illus    740 

block  diagram    742 
l)lock  diagram    720-21 
card  translator 

alternative    707,  709 
circuit  design    725-41 
equipment    725-41 
functions    719-25 
interchangability     719 
switching 

toll    707-45 
testing  program    744-45 


INDEX 


27 


Transmission 
data,  sec  Digital  Systems 
digital 

historj-     1059-84 
loss 
resonance 
modes 
loosely-coupled    899-906 
1  runk 
intertoll    955 
dialing 
direct  distance    955-72 
operator  distance    955-72 
microwave 
pulse,  binary 

advantages     67-68 
regeneration     67-90 
rate     917 

routing,  see  Routing 
trunks 
intertoll 
testing 
automatic    927-54 
See  also  Information  Rate 
Transmission  Lines 

concentrator,  see  Concentrator 
dispersion 

helix,  bifilar     146-48 
helices,  coupled 

equations     133-37 
open -wire 
crosstalk    515-18 
transpositions    515-18 
Transmission  Loss  due  to  Resonance  of 
Loosely-Coupled  Modes  in  a  Multi- 
Mode  System  (A.  P.  King,  E.  A.  J 
Marcatili)     899-906 
Transmission  Systems 
multimode 
loss 
modes 
loosely-coupled    899-906 
Transposition 
transmission  lines 
open-wire    515-18 
Traveling-Wave    Tube     See   Electron 

Tube 
Trunk(s),  Trunking 
intertoll 


Bell  System  statistics    423 
loss 
net 
maintenance 
dialing 
direct  distance    955-72 
operator  distance    955-72 
operation 
testing 

automatic    927-54 
transmission 
testing 
automatic    937-54 
routing,  alternate     437-42 
traffic  engineering    421-514 
Tube,  Electronic     See  Electron  Tube 
Type  M1789  Electron  Tube    See  Elec 
tron  Tube:  traveling  wave 

U 

Ulilir,  Arthur,  Jr. 

biographical  material    533 
Electrolytic  Shaping  of  Germanium  and 
Silicon    333-47 
United  States 

telephone     statistics    423 
Use   of  an   Interference   Microscope  for 
Measurement  of  Extremely  Thin  Sur- 
face  Layers    (W.    L.    Bond,    F.    M. 
Smits)     1209-21 


Vacuum  Tube    See  Electron  Tube 
Voltage 
breakdown 

diodes    685 
photo,  see  Photo-Voltage 
Voltage      Comparator    See      Compa- 
rator 
Voltage  Encoder    See  Encoder 
Voss,  R.  G. 
electron  tube 
traveling  wave 
M1789    1343 

W 

Wafer-Type   Millimeter    Wave   Rectifiers 
(W.  M.  Sharpless)     1385-1402 


28 


THE    BELL   TELEPHONE    SYSTEM   TECHNICAL   JOURNAL,    1956 


Walker,  Laurence  R. 

amplifier,  traveling  wave 

large  signal  theory    373 
biographical  material     247 
Growing     Waves     due     to     Transverse 
Velocities     109-25 
Wallace,  R.  L.,  Jr. 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 

tetrode    840 
Wave 
backward 

amplifier,  traveling  wave    351-55 
circular 
attenuation 
5-6mm 
pipes 
medium-sized     1115-28 
small     1115-28 
forward 

amplifier,  traveling  wave    351-55 
millimeter 
rectifier 

point-contact 
wafer-type     1385-1402 
slow 
propagation 

electron  flow     109-25 
Wave  Coupler    See  Coupler 
Wave  Rectifier    See  Rectifier 
Waveguide 

coupler,     see     Coupler 
dominant  mode 
testing 
pulses 
millimicrosecond    35-65 
apparatus    36-43 
helix     1347-84 
attenuation     1358 
boundary  value  problem     1351-55 
composition     1347-84 
equation     1381-84 
formation     1348-50 
propagation  constants     1355-58 
helices 

zero-pitch     1358-78 
mode,  see  Mode 


round 

attenuation 

5-6mm     1115-28 
medium-sized 
wave 
circular 
attenuation 
5-6mm     115-28 
small 
wave 
circular 
attenuation 
5-6mm     115-28 
switch,  see  Switch 
transmission,  see  Transmission 
Waveguide  Investigations  with  Millimicro- 
second Pulses  (A.  C.  Beck)     35-65 
Weeks,  G.  E. 

testing  machines     1198 
Weisbaum,  S. 

biographical     material     989 
Field  Displacement  Isolater    877-98 
Weiss,  M.  T. 
ferrite  devices 

nonreciprocal    877 
Weiss,  Miss  R.  A. 
phase,  tables 
tabulation     749 
Western  Electric 
test  machines     1129-54 
testing 
automatic 
facilities     1154 
Whit  acre,  W.  E. 
wave 
electric 
circular 
attenuation     1128 
Wilkinson,  Roger  I. 

biographical  material     533 
Theories  for  Toll  Traffic  Engineering  in 
the  U.S.  A.    421-514 
Wire  Center 
defined    250 
Wisconsin 

intertoll  trunk  groups,  principal 
timp     424 


INDEX 


29 


Wolfertz,  W.  F. 
amplifier 
transistor 
junction 
tetrode    840 
Wolontis.V.M. 

amplifier,  traveling  wave 
large  signal  theory     373 
Wrathall,  Leishman  R. 

biographical  material     1237 
Transistorized  Binary  Pulse  Regener- 
ator    1059-84 
Writing 

magnetic  drum     712-13 
Wyckoff,  Miss  E.  V. 

toll     traffic     study    445 


Young,  James  A.,  Jr. 
biographical  material     1466 
Helix  Waveguide    1347-84 


Zone  Leveler  illus    656 
Zone  Leveling 

germanium 

apparatus     655-60  illus    656 
technique    655-60 

principles,  basic     638-41 
Zone  Melting 

defined    637 
Zone  Refining 

germanium  637 


Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 


jwwmmnmi 


