Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


/nai  i  A^  .  •-•<ij 


I 


♦  -■ 


♦ 


1 


/ 


BIOGRAPHIA   BRITANNICA 

LITERARIA. 


ANGLO-NORMAN  PERIOD. 


BIOGRAPHIA   BRITANNICA 

LITERARIA; 


OR 


Of  %itevavv  e^vatuvit 


or 


GREAT  BRITAIN  AND   IRELAND, 


ARRANGED 


IN   CHRONOLOGICAL   ORDER. 


ANGLO-NORMAN  PERIOD. 


BY 

THOMAS  WRIGHT,  M.A. 

CORRBSPONDING   MBMBER   OF   THE   INSTITUTE    OF   FRANCE 
(aCADEMIE  DE8  INSCRIPTIONS  ET  BELLES  LETTRBS). 


? LONDON: 
JOHN  W.  PARKER,  WEST  STRAND. 


1846. 


/^^53 .  c/f 


T 


A 


/f7^"^  ^/i'^£^^^>^. 


.'■^i 
//n.. 


V, 


BOUND  APH  10      t4 


i-t 


BIOGRAPHIA  BRITANNICA 

LITERARIA; 


OR 


Viogvap^V  of  Hitrrnrff  <iM)ara(ter0 


OF 


GREAT   BRITAIN   AND    IRELAND. 


PUBLISHED  UNDER  THE  SUPERINTENDENCE  OF  THE  COUNCIL 


OF  THB 


ROYAL  SOCIETY  OF  LITERATURE. 


I 

v.* 


I.ONI>ON  \  J.  B.  I^ICSOI,»  ANP  iO)^,  FKINTKHii  25>  FAm^IAMPNT  8TlilSKT« 


The  Royal  Society  of  Literature  was  founded 
by  Royal  Charter,  granted  in  the  year  1825  by 
His  Majesty  King  George  IV.,  for  the  purpose 
of  promoting  Literature  in  its  more  important 
branches,  with  a  special  attention  to  the  improve- 
ment of  the  English  Language. 

The  plan  proposed  for  effecting  this  object,  in- 
cluded— 1 .  The  residing  at  the  Society's  meetings 
and  the  publication  in  its  Transactions,  of  papers 
on  History,  Philosophy,  Poetry,  Philology,  and  the 
Fine  Arts  : — 2.  The  adjudication  of  honorary  re- 
wards for  works  of  great  literary  merit,  and  for 
important  discoveries  in  literature  : — 3.  The  pub- 
lication of  inedited  remains  of  ancient  literature, 
and  of  such  woi^ks  as  may  be  of  great  intrinsic 
value,  but  not  of  that  popular  character  which 
readily  commands  the  attention  of  publishers. 


U  ROYAL  SOCIETY  OF  LITERATURE. 

In  furtherance  of  the  first  portion  of  this  plan, 
the  Council  of  the  Society  has  already  published 
six  parts,  making  three  volumes  in  quarto,  of  its 
Transactions,  and  a  fourth  volume  in  octavo,  the 
first  of  a  new  series,  comprising  researches  into 
the  origin  of  different  languages,  elucidations  of 
ancient  monuments,  as  medals,  vases,  and  statues, 
disquisitions  on  points  of  ancient  geography, 
classical  history,  and  archaeology  in  general, — 
speculations  on  the  hieroglyphical  language  of 
Egypt,  the  chronology  of  its  several  royal  dynas- 
ties, and  the  age  of  its  most  celebrated  monu- 
ments,— the  illustration  of  Greek  and  Latin  inscrip- 
tions, with  other  subjects  relating  to  the  history 
and  developement  of  the  human  intellect.  A  fifth 
volume  is  in  the  press,  and  nearly  ready  for  pub- 
lication. 


The  second  division  of  the  Society's  plan  has 
likewise  been  to  some  extent  carried  into  effect. 
Two  gold  medals,  placed  at  their  disposal  by  its 
Royal  founder,  were  annually  awarded  by  the 
Pouncil  during  His  Majesty's  life,  viz. : — 


ROYAL  SOClfiTY  OF  LITERATURE. 


Ill 


1824,  to 


1825,  to 


1826,  to 


1827,  to 


1828,  to 


1829,  to 


18dO,  to 


W.  MiTFORD,  Esq. 

MONSIGNOR  AnGELO  Ma'i. 

James  Rennell,  Esq.  F.R.S. 

Charles  Wilkins,  Esq.  LL.D. 

Professor  Schweighauser. 

DuGALD  Stewart,  Esq.  F.R.S. 

Sir  Walter  Scott,  Bart. 

Robert  Southey,  Esq. 

The  Rev.  George  Crabbe,  M.A. 

The  Venerable  Archdeacon  Coxb. 

Wm.  Roscoe,  Esq.  LL.D. 

Le  Baron  Antoine  Isaac  Silvestre  de  Sacy. 

Washington  Irving,  Esq, 

Henry  Hall  am,  Esq.  F.R.S. 


This  part  of  the  plan  was  unfortunately  sus- 
pended by  the  demise  of  His  Majesty  King  George 
the  Fourth,  without  any  provision  having  been 
made  for  the  continuance  of  the  Royal  bounty. 


In  the  third  department  of  its  operations,  the 
Society  has  likewise  been  hitherto  restrained  by 
the  limited  extent  of  its  funds.  It  has  neverthe- 
less continued,  in  a  second  volume  of  sixty  folio 
plates,  the  publication  of  hieroglyphics,  begun  by 
the  Egyptian  Society,  under  the  editorship  of  the 
late  learned  Dr.  Thomas  Young.    The  liberality  of 


IV  ROYAL  SOCIETY  OP  LITERATURE. 

some  of  its  members  has  further  enabled  the 
Council  to  engage  in  the  present  undertaking; 
and  they  have  lately  become  entitled,  in  aid  of 
this  department  of  their  labours,  to  the  sum  of 
5,000/.,  bequeathed  to  the  Society  by  the  late  Rev. 
Dr.  George  Richards,  one  of  its  original  promoters 
and  most  zealous  friends. 


Vre»ilient0  ot  tt^t  ttosal  SkotUtp  of  Uttetatute. 

THE  RIGHT  REVEREND  THOMAS  BURGESS,  D.D.  BISHOP 

OF  SALISBURY, 

First  President, 

THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE  LORD  DOVER, 

Elected  1832. 

THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE  THE  EARL  OF  RIPON, 

Elected  1834. 

HENRY  HALLAM,  ESQ. 
Elected  1845. 


COUNCIL 

OF  THE 

ROYAL  SOCIETY  OP  LITERATURE 

FOR  THE  YEilR  1845—6. 


PRBSZDBNT. 

HENRY  HALLAM,  Esq.  F.R.S. 

VX0a-PRB8IDBNT8. 

HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  RUTLAND,  K.6. 
HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  NEWCASTLE,  K.G. 
THE  RIGHT  HON.  THE  EARL  OF  CLARE,  K.S.P. 
THE  RIGHT  HON.  THE  EARL  OF  RIPON,  F.R.S. 
THE  RIGHT  HON.  LORD  BEXLEY,  F.R.S. 
THE  RIGHT  HON.  LORD  COLBORNE. 
WILLIAM  R.  HAMILTON,  Esa.  F.R.S. 
WILLIAM  MARTIN  LEAKE,  Esa.  F.R.S. 
LOUIS  HAYES  PETIT,  Ebo.  F.R.S. 
THE  REV.  J.  H.  SPRY,  D.D. 

COUNOZL. 

THE  MOST  NOBLE  THE  MARQUIS  OF  NORTHAMPTON, 
P.R.S. 

THE  LORD  KENYON,  D.C.L. 

THE  VEN.  ARCHDEACON  BURNEY,  F.R.S. 

THOMAS  BIGGE,  Esa. 

THE  REV.  RICHARD  CATTERMOLE,  B.D.  (Sbcrktaet). 

THE  REV.  HENRY  CLISSOLD,  M.A. 

SIR  JOHN  DORATT,  M.D.  (Librarian  and  Forrign 

Secretary). 
THE  REV.  THOMAS  FULLER,  M.A. 
JOHN  HOGG,  Esa.  F.R.S. 
HENRY  HOLLAND,  Esa. 
WILLIAM  JERDAN,  Esa. 
WILLIAM  OSBURN,  Esa. 
DAVID  POLLOCK,  Esa.  Q.C.,  F.R.S. 
CHARLES  A.  SMITH,  Esa. 
DAWSON  TURNER,  Esa.  F.R.S. 

WILLIAM  TOOKE,  Esa.  F.R.S.  Trrasurbr. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Thb  literary  history  of  the  Anglo-Norman  period  is,  on 
the  whole,  less  in  need  of  an  Introductory  Essay  than 
that  of  the  Anglo-Saxons,  for  it  not  only  includes  a  much 
shorter  space  of  time,  and  is  of  a  less  varied  character, 
but  a  smaller  proportion  of  its  writings  are  anonymous, 
so  that  it  is  tolerably  complete  in  the  description  of 
the  works  of  each  successive  author.  Very  little  of  the 
popular  literature  of  this  period  has  come  down  to  us ; 
and  it  is  probable  that  it  was  not  very  extensive,  or,  at 
least,  that  the  larger  portion  was  never  committed  to  writ- 
ing. It  was  an  age  of  oppression  and  violence,  during 
which  the  greater  part  of  the  population  of  England  was 
reduced  to  a  state  of  extreme  misery  and  ignorance.  We 
have  seen,  in  the  former  volume  of  the  present  work,  how, 
towards  the  latter  end  of  the  Saxon  period,  learning,  that 
is,  the  study  of  Latin  literature,  was  sinking  into  neglect  in 
this  island,  and  how  knowledge  of  every  kind  was  then 
spreading  abroad  in  works  written  only  in  the  Anglo-Saxon 
tongue.  The  use  of  this  latter  language,  in  writing,  was 
almost  abolished  after  the  invasion  of  the  Normans.  It  was 
only  preserved  in  the  continuation  for  a  time  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  Chronicle,  and  in  some  productions,  mostly  of  a 
religious  or  moral  character,  for  which  we  are  probably 
indebted  to  the  few  Anglo-Saxon  monks  who  were  per- 
mitted to  retain  their  places  in  our  monasteries.  Towards 
the  end  of  this  period,  the  native  literature  begins  again 
to  make  its  appearance.    At  this  time  the  Anglo-Norman 

b 


X  INTRODUCTION. 

language  had  taken  the  place  of  the  older  Saxon  ;  and  we 
may  properly  divide  the  literature  of  the  whole  period  into 
the  two  classes  of  Anglo-Latin  and  Anglo-Norman. 

§  I. — Anglo-Latin  Literature. 

At  the  period  of  the  Norman  invasion  of  England^  a 
great  intellectual  movement  had  commenced  in  the  schools 
on  the  continent.  This  showed  itself  in  an  increasing 
study  of  the  ancient  writers  of  Rome,  and  a  consequent 
improvement  in  literary  taste  and  style.  Latin  composi- 
tion was  cultivated  nowhere  with  greater  success  than  in 
the  schools  of  Normandy  3  and  some  of  the  most  distin- 
guished ornaments  of  those  schools  were  brought  over 
into  our  island  by  the  Conqueror.  From  that  moment 
the  Anglo-Latin  writers  took  a  position  in  the  literature 
of  Europe  which  they  had  long  lost,  or  which,  more  truly, 
they  had  never  held  before ;  for  the  Latinity  of  the  early 
Saxon  writers  is  tame  and  incorrect  when  compared  with 
that  of  the  scholars  of  Lanfranc  and  Anselm.  It  was, 
however,  essentially  owing  to  the  importation  of  learned 
men ;  for,  during  the  first  half  of  the  Anglo-Norman  period, 
the  distinguished  Latin  writers  in  our  island  were,  with 
very  few  exceptions,  foreigners  who  were  brought  over  by 
the  Norman  monarchs  to  be  the  dignitaries  of  the  English 
church.  The  earlier  Anglo-Norman  scholars  were  almost 
entirely  theologians,  and  the  epigrams  of  Godfrey  of  Win- 
chester stand  alone  amid  a  mass  of  writings  which,  with 
the  exception  of  some  valuable  letters,  and  a  few  historical 
tracts,  have  little  interest  at  the  present  day. 

The  great  developement  of  the  scholastic  system  on  the 
continent,  and  the  intellectual  agitation  to  which  it  gave 
birth,  had  a  visible  influence  on  the  literature  of  our  island, 
although  it  appears  that,  perhaps  from  the  greater  extent 
of  our  political  troubles,  the  disputes  of  the  scholastic 
philosophers  were  not  much  encouraged  here.    Although 


INTRODUCTION.  XI 

the  schools  at  Oxford  and  Cambridge  existed  in  the  earlier 
part  of  the  twelfth  century^  they  seem  to  have  had  little 
influence  during  the  whole  Norman  period,  and  were  looked 
upon  only  as  introductory  to  the  universities  of  France. 
Thither  flocked  most  of  our  native  scholars ;  and  English- 
men, such  as  Athelard,  Robert  de  Retines,  Robert  de  Me- 
lun,  Daniel  de  Merlai,  John  of  Salisbury,  &.C.,  became  the 
most  distinguished  ornaments  of  the  continental  schools. 

The  Latin  of  the  earlier  writers  is  characterized  by  con- 
siderable vigour  of  style,  arising  from  clearness  and  simpli- 
city of  diction,  which  subsequently  gave  way  to  an  affiecta- 
tion  of  florid  ornament  which  made  the  style  of  the  later 
writers  very  confused  and  often  unintelligible.  We  meet 
with  good  Latin  poetry  throughout  the  twelfth  century ;  the 
writings  of  Laurence  of  Durham,  Henry  of  Huntingdon, 
John  of  Salisbury,  John  de  Hauteville,  Nigellus  Wireker, 
Alexander  Neckam,  and  others,  contain  passages  of  great 
beauty,  and  almost  classic  elegance ;  whilst  a  new  style  of 
Latin  versification,  in  which  rhymes  took  the  place  of  the 
ancient  metres,  beginning  with  Hilarius,  and  brought 
to  perfection  in  the  satirical  poems  attributed  to  Walter 
Mapes,  possesses  a  certain  energy  and  sprightliness  which  is 
not  without  considerable  attraction*  This  class  of  poetry 
became  extremely  popular,  and  continued  to  exist  in  its 
original  vigour  long  after  the  style  of  the  more  serious 
Latin  writers  had  become  hopelessly  debased.  Indeed, 
the  period  at  which  it  appears  to  have  flourished  most  was 
the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century,  under  the  troubled 
reign  of  Henvy  IIL  It  may  be  observed  that  poetry  in 
general  was  peculiarly  the  literature  of  the  schools,  and  of 
the  secular  clergy ;  and  much  of  that  of  the  twelfth  and 
thirteenth  centuries  is  distinguished  by  its  hostility  to 
monacbism. 

By  far  the  most  important  class  of  Latin  writers  during 
the  twelfth  century  was  that  of  historians.    At  first  their 

b  2 


Xll  INTRODUCTION. 

works  were  mere  dry  chronicles  of  events,  like  the  remains 
of  Florence  of  Worcester  and  Turgot.  Eadmer's  historical 
works  may  be  considered  in  some  degree  as  political  trea- 
tises, their  object  being  to  commemorate  and  defend  the 
conduct  of  his  friend  and  patron  Anselm.  Ordericus  Vitalis 
first  made  history  the  object  of  laborious  research^  but  his 
work  wants  system  and  arrangement.  William  of  Malms- 
bury  is  the  most  elegant  of  our  medieval  historians ;  and 
after  his  time  several  of  his  countrymen^  such  as  Giraldus 
Cambrensis  and  William  of  Newbury,  attempted  with  suc- 
cess to  raise  the  character  of  the  historian  above  that  of  the 
mere  chronicler.  We  can  only  look  upon  Geoffrey  of  Mon- 
mouth as  a  writer  of  romance.  It  was  in  these  histories  diat 
the  Latin  style  of  the  schools  became  most  rapidly  debased, 
partly  because  the  authors  were  in  many  cases  monks  and 
not  schoolmen,  and  partly  because  they  had  to  deal  with 
matters  of  private  life,  in  which  they  were  obliged  to  in- 
troduce a  barbarous  phraseology.  This  becomes  more  ap- 
parent towards  the  beginning  of  the  thirteenth  century ; 
and  such  writing  as  that  of  Jocelin  de  Brakelonde  presents 
a  strange  contrast  to  the  style  of  John  of  Salisbury  and 
Giraldus  Cambrensis.  Very  little  Latin  prose  that  is  to- 
lerable was  written  after  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury. Norman  and  English  had  then,  to  a  certain  degree, 
driven  the  Latin  out  of  the  field,  or  at  least  had  thrown  it 
into  the  hands  of  a  school  of  heavy  theologians. 

The  scholastic  writers  of  the  twelfth  century  appear  to 
have  prided  themselves  on  their  epistolary  style,  and  many 
very  important  volumes  of  letters,  collected  and  pub- 
lished by  them  or  by  their  disciples,  have  been  preserved. 
These  are  among  the  most  valuable  illustrations  of  the 
public  and  private  history  of  the  age  to  which  they  be- 
long. They  begin  with  those  of  Lanfranc  and  Anselm» 
and  become  very  numerous  in  the  reign  of  Henry  IL 
Those  of  Becket  and  his  friends,  as  well  as  those  of  his 


•  •  • 


INTRODUCTION.  Xlll 

opponent  Gilbert  Foliot  (which  are  preparing  for  publica- 
tion by  Dr.  Giles),  were  evidently  published  from  political 
motives.  Among  the  most  valuable,  and,  in  a  literary 
point  of  view,  the  most  interesting,  we  must  place  those 
of  John  of  Sahsbury  and  Peter  of  Blois,  which  make  us 
intimate  not  only  with  the  political,  but  with  the  scholas- 
tical,  history  of  the  latter  half  of  the  twelfth  century. 

§  II. — Anglo-Norman  Literature. 

When  the  Normans  entered  England,  although  but  a 
century  and  a  half  had  elapsed  since  their  settlement  in 
France,  they  had  entirely  lost  the  language  they  had  brought 
with  them  from  the  North,  and  had  long  adopted  that  of 
the  people  whom  they  had  conquered,  one  of  the  dialects 
derived  from  the  ancient  Latin,  called,  from  their  origin, 
lingua  Romanoy  or  langue  Romane^  which  has  in  the  sequel 
been  moulded  down  into  the  modern  French.  As  early 
even  as  the  time  of  the  second  of  the  Norman  dukes, 
William  I.,  only  a  few  years  after  the  death  of  RoUo,  we 
are  told  by  Dudo  de  St.  Quentin,  that  the  duke  was 
obliged  to  send  his  son  to  Bayeux  to  learn  the  Danish 
tongue,  as  the  langue  Romane  was  almost  the  only  tongue 
spoken  at  Rouen,  then  the  chief  seat  of  the  power  of 
the  Northmen  in  France.*  Benoit  de  St.  Maure,  para- 
phrasing Dudo  in  his  History  of  the  Dukes  of  Normandy, 
speaks  still  more  strongly, — 

Si  k  Roem  1e  fax  garder  If  I  cause  him  to  be  kept  at  Rouen 

£  norir  gains  longuement.  And  nonrished  very  long, 

II  ne  sanra  parler  neient  He  will  not  know  how  to  talk  at  ^ 

Daneis ;  kar  nul  ne  Vi  parole,  Danish ;  for  no  one  speaks  it  there. 

8i  Toil  k'U  seit  k  tele  escole,  It  is  very  weU  that  he  be  at  soch  a 

school, 

*  Qnoniam  quidem  Rotomagensis  civitas  Romana  potius  quam  Daeieem 
nUtar  eloquentiat  et  Bajocassensis  fmitnr  freqnentias  DaciMCa  Ungua  quam 
Bomana,    Dudo,  lib.  iii.  p.  112. 


XIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


Que  as  Dsneis  sache  parler ; 

Ci  ne  tavent  rienfort  Romanz . 
Mais  k  Baiues  eo  a  tanz 
Qai  ne  savent  si  Daneia  non. 


That  he  may  know  how  to  talk  to 

the  Danes ; 
Here  they  know  nothing  but  Romany ; 
Bat  at  Bayeuz  there  are  many 
Who  know  nothing  but  Daniah. 


We  learn  from  another  source,  that  at  the  council  of 
Mouson-sur-Meuse  in  995,  the  bishop  of  Verdun  spoke 
in  French.*  It  is  probable  that,  with  their  language^  the 
Normans  had  lost  most  of  their  national  traditions  and 
poetry ;  for  the  literature  of  Normandy,  when  it  first  be- 
comes known  to  us,  is,  in  this  respect,  purely  French. 

The  popular  literature  of  the  Normans  in  France  and 
England  previous  to  the  twelfth  century  is  totally  unknown 
to  us.  The  poet  Taillefer  is  said  to  have  repeated  one  of 
the  songs  of  his  native  country  at  the  battle  of  Hastings ; 
but  this  rests  on  authority  not  earlier  than  the  middle  of 
that  century,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  the  song  attri- 
buted to  him  related  to  RoUo,  the  founder  of  the  Norman 
dynasty  in  France,  or  to  Roland  the  celebrated  hero  of 
French  romance.  There  does  not  appear  to  be  any  monu- 
ment of  the  language  earlier  than  the  year  llOO.f 

However,  as  most  of  the  popular  literature  of  this  period 
was  confined  to  the  jongleurs,  who  were  at  the  same 
time  authors  and  minstrels,  and  as  it  was  probably  sel- 
dom or  never  committed  to  writing,  we  have  no  difficulty 
in  accounting  for  its  loss.  We  know  that  there  were 
jongleurs  in  Normandy  at  an  early  period,  and  that  they 
followed  their  patrons  into  England.  But  we  only  become 
acquainted  with  their  compositions  at  a  later  period. 

In  literature,  the  Anglo-Norman  language  first  makes 
its  appearance  in  poems  of  a  religious  and  serious  charac- 

*  Harduini  Condi,  torn.  vi.  p.  734. 

t  The  Abb6  de  la  Rue,  Easaia  Historiques,  tom.  i,  pp.  li,  lii,  has  suppoaed 
that  an  epitaph  in  French  on  Frodoard,  which  he  there  prints,  ia  contem- 
porary with  the  death  of  that  historian,  which  occurred  in  dG6 ;  but  it  ia 
clearly  of  a  much  more  recent  dnte. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XV 


ter ;  and  it  seeiDS  to  have  first  found  a  distinguished  patron 
in  Adelaide  of  Louvaine,  queen  of  Henry  I.  The  patron- 
age of  this  lady  was  bestowed  not  only  on  Philip  de  Thaun, 
who  dedicated  to  her  his  metrical  Bestiary,  but  also  on 
an  anonymous  irouv^re,  or  poet^  apparently  a  Benedictine 
monkj  who  composed  the  legend  of  St.  Brandan  in  Anglo- 
Norman  verse.  This  latter  poem,  if  we  may  venture  to 
give  it  such  a  name^  opens  with  the  following  lines  :* — 


Donna  Aaliz  la  reine, 
PUr  qui  ▼aldrat  lei  divine, 

Par  qui  creistrat  lei  de  tenre, 

E  remandrat  tante  gaerre 
For  lea  armes  Henri  la  rei, 
£  par  le  conseil  qui  ert  en  tei, 

Salvet  tei  mil  e  mil  feiz 
Li  apoetoiles  dans  Benediz. 

Que  comandas,  90  ad  enpris, 

En  letre  mis  e  en  Romanz, 

£  si  cum  fud  li  teons  cumanz, 
De  saint  Brendan  le  boa  abeth  ; 

Mais  tn  1*  defent,  ne  seit  gabetti. 

Qnant  dit  que  set  e  fait  que  peot, 

Itel  serrant  blasmer  n'esteot ; 
Mais  si  qui  peot  e  ne  voile, 
Dreiz  est  que  cil  mult  se  doile. 


The  lady  Alice  the  queen, 

Through  whom  the  divine  law  wiU 
flourish, 

Tlirough  whom  the  law  of  the  land 

*    will  increase. 

And  so  great  war  will  be  pacified 

Through  the  arms  of  Henry  the  king, 

And  through  the  counsel  which  will 
be  in  thee, 

The  pope  dan  Benedict 

Salute  thee  a  thousand  and  a  thou- 
sand times. 

What  you  commanded,  I  have  under- 
taken, 

Have  put  in  writing  and  in  Ro- 
manz, 

As  it  was  thy  command, 

[The  life]  of  St.  Brandan  the  good 
abbot ; 

Moreover  you  forbade  that  it  should 
be  done  disrespectfully. 

When  any  one  has  said  what  he 
knows  and  dooe  what  he  can. 

We  should  not  blame  such  a  servant; 

But  he  who  can  and  will  not, 

It  is  right  that  he  should  have  much 
grief. 


There  is,  however,  none  of  the  spirit  or  poetry  of  the 
jongleur  in  these  pieces,  and  it  is  quite  evident  that  their 
only  object  was  to  make  the  subjects  on  which  they  treated 
familiar  to  those  who  were  not  acquainted  with  the  Latin 


*  It  is  preserved  in  MS.  Cotton.  Vespas.  B.  z. 


xn 


INTRODUCTION. 


y 


language ;  and  they  were  written  in  verse  as  an  aid  to  the 
memory,  and  perhaps  also  with  the  hope  that  the  religious 
legends  of  the  monks  might  thus  take  the  place  of  the 
profane  songs  of  the  secular  poets.  We  find  during  the 
twelfth  century  much  anonymous  verse  in  Anglo-Norman 
on  pious  and  legendary  subjects.  A  metrical  collec- 
tion of  Miracles  of  the  Virgin  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
British  Museum  (MS.  Egerton,  No.  612)^  written  either 
at  the  end  of  the  twelfth  or  beginning  of  the  thirteenth 
century^  appears  to  have  been  composed  at  an  earlier 
date.  The  author,  whose  name  was  William,  tells  us  that 
his  contemporaries  were  too  much  attached  to  poetry  which 
treated  on  love,  and  battles,  and  ^^  other  adventures,^'  al- 
though he  confesses  that  there  was  something  to  be  learnt 
from  such  subjects  as  these. — 


Li  home  de  jolift^, 
Ki  tant  aiment  lor  volent^i 
Amereient  milz  autre  eicrit 
Ke  cuntaat  amerua  delit, 
U  bataille,  u  altre  aventore, 
Eq  tela  escria  mettent  lur  cure. 

Tea  escriz  ne  sunt  k  defendre, 
Kar  grant  sens  i  poet  Ven  aprendre 


De  curtesie  e  de  laTeir. 


Men  of  pleasure, 

Who  love  80  much  their  will, 

Would  like  better  some  other  writing 

Which  told  of  love, 

Or  battle,  or  other  adventure ; 

In  such  writings   they   place  their 

care. 
Such  writings  are  not  to  be  forbidden, 
For  we  may  learn  from  them  great 

knowledge 
Of  courtesy  and  wisdom. 


M8,  Eg.  No.  612,  fol.  9,  r*. 


However,  he  says  that  they  ought  not  to  hold  poems  of 
this  kind  in  so  much  esteem  as  to  neglect  more  pious  sub- 
jects, such  as  the  miracles  of  the  Virgin,  and  of  the  other 
saints.  Even  in  the  reign  of  Stephen,  when  the  works 
of  the  trouvhres  became  much  more  numerous,  they 
are  chiefly  of  a  religious  character,  and  their  authors  were 
generally  monks.  We  must,  however,  be  understood  as 
speaking  of  the  written  literature  of  the  day ;  for  there 
can  be  no  doubt  that  a  great  body  of  the  medieval  romances 


INTRODUCTION. 


XVll 


were  in  existence  at  this  period^  of  which  we  have  an  ex- 
ample in  the  noble  chanson  de  Roland,  by  the  trouvhre 
Turold,  of  which  an  early  manuscript  in  the  Anglo-Nor- 
man dialect  has  been  preserved. 

Most  of  this  religious  and  serious  poetry  consisted  in 
mere  translations  or  paraphrases  from  the  Latin,  and  the 
writers  make  no  further  pretension.  We  have  a  few  trans- 
lations in  prose  which  appear  to  belong  to  the  earliest  pe- 
riod of  Anglo-Norman  literary  history.  One  of  the  oldest 
of  these  is  a  version  of  the  Psalms^  which  is  found  in  seve- 
ral manuscripts  in  England.  The  first  Psalm^  taken  from 
a  copy  in  the  British  Museum  (MS.  Cotton.  Nero  C.  vi.), 
will  furnish  an  example  of  Anglo-Norman  prose  probably 
of  the  reign  of  Henry  I. 


Beoniure  banm  chi  ne  alat  el  cnn- 
leil  des  fehmsi  et  en  la  veie  des  pec- 
heora  ne  stout,  et  en  la  chaere  de 
pestilence  ne  sist. 

• 

Mais  en  la  lei  de  nostre  seignor  la 
Tolonted,  e  en  la  sue  lei  porpenserat 
par  jum  e  par  nuit. 

E  iert  ensement  came  le  fust  qued 
et  de  juste  les  decurs  des  ewes,  kl 
dnnrat  sun  froit  en  son  tens. 

E  sa  fuille  ne  decurrat,  e  tutes  les 
coses  que  11  unques  ferad  serunt  fait 
prospres. 

Nient  eissi  11  felun,  nient  eissi, 
mais  ensement  cume  la  puldre  que 
11  ven2  getet  de  la  face  de  terre. 

En  pur  iqo  ne  surdent  11  felun  en 
jnise,  ne  ti  pecheor  el  conseil  des 
dreituriers. 

Kar  nostre  sire  cunuist  la  Teie  des 
justes,  e  I'eire  des  feluns  perirat. 


Blessed  is  the  man  that  walketh 
not  in  the  counsel  of  the  ungodly, 
and  standeth  not  in  the  way  of  sin- 
ners, nor  sitteth  in  the  seat  of  the 
scornful. 

But  his  delight  is  in  the  law  of  our 
Lord :  and  in  this  law  doth  he  medi- 
tate day  and  night. 

And  he  shall  be  like  a  tree  planted 
by  the  riyers  of  water,  that  bringeth 
forth  his  fruit  in  his  season.  His  leaf 
also  shall  not  wither,  and  whatsoever 
he  doeth  shall  prosper. 

The  ungodly  are  not  so :  but  are 
like  the  chaff  which  the  wind  driveth 
away. 

Therefore  the  ungodly  shall  not 
stand  in  the  judgement,  nor  sinners 
in  the  congregation  of  the  righteous. 

For  the  Lord  knoweth  the  way  of 
the  righteous :  but  the  way  of  the 
ungodly  shall  perish. 


In  a  fine  manuscript  of  the  first  half  of  the  twelfth 
century,  in  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  the  Anglo-Norman 


•  t  • 

ZTUl 


INTAODUCTiaN. 


version  of  the  Psalms  is  given  as  an  interlinear  gloss.  A 
translation  of  the  four  books  of  Kings,  evidently  in  Anglo- 
Norman,  has  been  printed  in  Paris,  under  the  editoriaji 
care  of  M.  Le  Roux  de  Lincy,  from  a  manuscript  pre- 
served at  Paris,  but  probably  written  in  England  also  in 
the  first  half  of  the  twelfth  century.  The  following  extract 
will  serve  for  comparison  with  the  preceding  example  of 
the  Anglo-Norman  of  the  Psalms : — 


Samuel  issi  le  fist.  Revint  al 
pople,  et  si  lor  dit : 

Rel  m'avez  demanded.  Deus  Tad 
oi,  si  Pad  granted ;  mais  snr  tub 
tele  seigDurie  aura  que  voz  fiz  &  sun 
plaisir  prendra  :  des  uns  en  frad  che- 
Talers,  des  altres  curliens  derant  sun 
cfaarrei ; 

Des  uns  en  frad  ses  preTOz  e  cu- 
nestableSf  des  altres  vileins  pur  as 
terre  arer,  e  pur  ses  blez  seer,  e  pur 
ses  armes  forgier,  e  ses  curres  a- 
greier. 

£  voz  fillesy  les  unes  frunfc  les 
uignemenz,  les  altres  le  mangier ; 
les  altres  erent  al  pestrin. 

Voz  champs,  voz  bones  rignes,  yob 
oliyers,  toldra  e  k  ses  serfs  les  durra. 


Voz  blez»  les  fruiz  des  vignes,  il 
les  dismera;  as  ses  serjanz  il  les 
durrad. 

Voz  serfz,  toz  anceles,  le  eslite 
bachelerie  prendra,  e  h,  sun  servise 
les  metra. 

De  vostre  pecunie  frad  sun  plaisir; 
serfs  serrez,  si  1*  vus  estuverad  sufihir. 

Lores  crierez  k  Deu  merci,  mais 
il  ne  vus  deignerad  oir,  pur  qo  que 
YU8  demandes  rei»  e  degetez  lui  e 
mei. 


And  be  [Samuel]  said.  This  will 
be  the  manner  of  the  king  that  shall 
reign  over  you:  he  will  take  your 
sons,  and  appoint  them  for  himself, 
for  his  chariots,  and  to  be  his  horse- 
men ;  and  some  shall  run  before  his 
chariots. 

And  he  will  appoint  him  captains 
over  thousands,  and  captains  over 
fifties ;  and  will  set  them  to  ear  his 
ground,  and  to  reap  his  harvest,  and 
to  make  his  instruments  of  war,  and 
instruments  of  his  chariots. 

And  he  will  take  your  daughters 
to  be  confectionaries,  and  to  be  cooks, 
and  to  be  bakers. 

And  he  will  take  your  fields  and 
your  vineyards,  and  your  oliveyards, 
even  the  best  of  them,  and  give  them 
to  his  servants. 

And  he  will  take  the  tenth  of  your 
seed,  and  of  your  vineyards,  and  give 
to  his  officers,  and  to  his  servants. 

And  he  will  take  your  men-ser- 
vants, and  your  maid-servants,  and 
your  goodliest  young  men,  and  your 
asses,  and  put  them  to  his  work. 

He  will  take  the  tenth  of  your 
sheep  :  and  ye  shall  be  his  servants. 

And  ye  shall  cry  out  in  that  day 
because  of  your  king  which  ye  shaU 
have  chosen  you :  and  the  Lord  wiU 
not  hear  you  in  that  day. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XIX 


Among  other  translations^  we  may  mention  that  of  the 
laws  of  William  the  Conqueror,  which,  although  not  pre- 
served in  any  very  early  manuscript,  appears  to  be  in  the 
language  of  the  twelfth  century,  as  the  following  passage 
will  show : — 


De  entremeins  aveir;  k*il  voldrat 
darner  emblet,  e  il  Tolge  doner  wage 
e  trover  plege  k  persair  sonn  apel» 
dune  I'estaverad  k  celui  qui  Paaverad 
entrc'ineins  nomer  8«unt  guarant,  si 
il  Tad ;  e  8*il  ne  Tad,  dune  nomerad 
sonn  heimelborh  e  ces  testimoines,  e 
ait  lea  &  jar  e  k  termer  b'iI  les  ad  u 
s'il  les  pot  aver.  £  li  entercenr 
iiveriad  en  guage  sei  siste  mein ;  e 
li  altre  le  mettrad  en  la  main  soon 
warant  n  k  heimelborh,  lequel  qn'il 
averad.  E  s'il  n'ad  guarant  ne  heim- 
dborh  e  il  ait  testimoines,  que  il 
I'achatad  al  marchiet  li  rei,  e  qn*il  ne 
set  soun  warant  ne  le  plege  vif  ne 
morti  960  jurad  od  ses  testimoines 
par  plein  sennent;  si  perdra  sonn 
chatel ;  si  il  testimoinent  qne  il  heim- 
elborh en  prist,  e  s'il  ne  pot  ayeir 
gnarant  ne  testimoine  qne  il  heim- 
elborh en  prist,  e  s*il  ne  pot  aveir 
gnarant  ne  testimoine,  si  perdrad  e 
pnrsoldrad  ;  pert  sa  werre  vers  sonn 
seignnr ;  qo  est  en  Merchendae.  £ 
en  Denelae  e  en  Westsezenelae  ne 
▼ocherad  mie  sonn  seignour  warant, 
i^eo  qne  seit  mis  en  gnage ;  e  en 
Danelae  mettre  en  vele  main  d'issi 
li  qne  il  se  derained,  e  s'il  pot  prover 
qne  ^eo  soit  de  sa  nurture  par  treia 
parts  sonn  vigned,  se  il  averad  de- 
raignet. 


Of  possession  of  live-stock ;  if  any 
one  shall  daim  it  as  stolen,  and  he 
will  give  pledge  and  find  sureties  for 
pursuing  his  claim,  then  it  will  be- 
hove  him  who  shall  have  it  in  his 
possession  to  name  his  warrant,  if  he 
have  one;  and  if  he  has  not  one, 
their  he  shall  name  his  *  heimelborh' 
(title  of  possession)  and  witnesses, 
and  have  them  at  day  and  term,  if 
he  has  them  or  if  he  can  have  them. 
And  the  claimant  shall  give  in  pledge 
himself  and  five  others ;  and  the  other 
shall  put  it  in  the  hand  of  his  warrant, 
or  to  the  heimelborh,  whichever 
he  may  have.  And  if  he  has  no 
warrant  or  heimelborh,  and  he  haa 
witnesses  that  he  bought  it  in  the 
king's  market,  and  he  does  not  know 
his  warrant  or  his  pledge,  alive  or 
dead,  he  shall  swear  that  vrith  his 
witnesses  by  full  oath  ;  and  he  shall 
lose  the  goods ;  if  they  witness  that 
he  took  heimelborh  of  it,  and  if  he 
cannot  have  warrant  or  witness  that 
he  took  hdmdborh  of  it,  he  shaU 
lose  it  and  pay  a  fine  ;  he  loses  his 
*  were  *  (head-money,)  towards  his 
lord  ;  this  is  in  Mercian-law.  And 
in  Danish-law  and  Westsaxon-law 
he  shall  not  give  his  lord  his  warrant 
before  the  claimant  be  put  in  pledge  ; 
and  in  Danish-law  they  will  put  the 
property  in  the  hand  of  a  neutral 
until  he  be  cleared,  and  if  he  can 
prove  that  it  be  of  his  breeding  by 
three  parts  of  his  *  visnet,'  he  shaU 
be  acquitted. 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

The  only  known  English  writers  of  Anglo-Norman 
prose  are  Walter  Mapes,  Robert  de  Borron^  and  Luces  de 
Gastj  the  authors  of  some  of  the  most  popular  romances 
of  the  cycle  of  the  Round  Table.  An  example  of  Mapes's 
style  is  given  at  p.  305  of  the  present  volume  ;  it  will  be 
seen  that  the  language  had  changed  considerably  from  that 
of  the  earlier  translations  of  the  Psalms  and  books  of 
KingS;  but  the  variety  of  manuscripts  of  the  work  from 
which  it  is  taken  renders  it  impossible  to  say  which  of 
them  represents  most  faithfully  the  language  in  which 
Mapes  wrote. 

In  the  reign  of  Stephen  there  arose  a  new  class  of  trou- 
vhresy  who  took  their  subjects  from  national  history. 
Gaimar  translated  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  into  Anglo-Nor- 
man verse^  and  added  to  it  a  history  of  the  Saxon  kings,  in 
which  we  first  meet  with  the  romance  of  Haveloc ;  and  a 
writer  named  David,  whose  work  is  lost,  wrote  a  history 
of  the  reign  of  Henry  I.  in  the  same  form.  Under  Henry 
II.  the  writers  of  this  class  become  more  numerous.  Wace 
again  translated  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  and  wrote  a  metri- 
cal history  of  Normandy.  His  rival  Benoit  de  St.  Maure 
wrote  a  much  more  diffuse,  but  less  poetical,  history  of 
the  Norman  dukes.  Jordan  Fantosme  wrote  a  history  of 
one  of  Henry  the  Second's  wars,  in  which  he  had  himself 
been  present.  Guernes  du  Pont  de  St.  Maxence  wrote 
the  life  of  Thomas  Becket.  These  are  the  only  Anglo- 
Norman  poets  whom  we  know  to  have  flourished  during 
the  reign  of  Henry  II.  Wace  and  Benoit  have  more  spirit 
than  the  monkish  writers  of  legends  and  miracles ;  but, 
with  the  exception  of  a  few  passages  here  and  there,  their 
poems  are  very  fiat  and  dull.  Jordan  Fantosme  and  Guernes 
are  more  vigorous. 

A  new  era  of  Anglo-Norman  literature  opens  with  the 
reign  of  Richard  I.    The  lion-hearted  King  prided  himself 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXI 


on  his  poetic  talents,  and  he  was  the  patron  of  jongleurs 
and  trouveres,  whose  works,  as  far  as  we  are  now  acquainted 
with  them,  become  more  numerous  at  this  period.  Some 
of  them,  such  as  Bozun,  Herman,  Simon  du  Fresne,  and 
William  the  Clerk,  still  devoted  themselves  to  religious 
and  moral  subjects.  These  writers  were  not  properly  min- 
strels ;  they  did  not  recite  their  own  works,  but  committed 
them  to  writing,  which  is  the  cause  of  their  being  pre- 
served in  early  manuscripts.  They  were  monks  ;  and  some 
of  them  appear  to  have  embraced  the  monastic  life  after 
having  been  professed  poets,  and  to  have  made  atone- 
ment for  the  profane  productions  of  their  earlier  years  by 
dedicating  their  talents  to  sacred  subjects.  Several  of 
the  writers  of  metrical  legends  allude  to  their  own  pro- 
fane poems,  which  have  since  perished,  because  at  this  pe- 
riod the  clergy  alone  committed  their  works  to  writing. 
Thus  William  the  Clerk  tells  us  in  a  religious  poem : — 

6ttillaame,aD8  clers  qui  fa  Normans,      William,  a  clerk  who  was  of  Nor- 
mandy, 
Who  wrote  verses  in  Romans, 
Used  to  tell  fables  and  tales, 
In  foolish  and  vaia  matter 
He  sinned  often,  may  God  forgive 
him  1 


Qui  versifia  en  Romans, 
Fables  et  contes  soleit  dire. 
En  fole  et  en  vaine  matire 
Pecfaa  sovent,  Dens  li  pardont  1 


Many  of  the  metrical  romances  were  preserved  orally 
by  successive  jongleurs,  alid  when  committed  to  writing 
they  differed  much  from  the  original  copy.  This  is  the 
reason  that  different  manuscripts  of  the  earlier  romances^ 
taken  down  from  the  recital  of  different  persons,  vary  so 
much  from  one  another,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Chanson  de 
Roland. 

A  few  romances,  by  known  writers  of  the  reigns  of 
Richard  and  of  John,  such  as  William  the  Clerk  (just  men- 
tioned), Hugh  de  Rutland,  Thomas,  and  Philip  de  Reimes, 
as  well  as  some  songs  of  this  period,  are  still  preserved. 


XZU  INTRODUCTION. 

It  is  probable  that  some  of  the  anonymous  productions 
found  in  manuscripts  of  the  thirteenth  century  also  be- 
long to  the  same  date,  but  of  this  we  cannot  speak  with 
any  degree  of  certainty. 

It  will  be  seen  by  this  brief  review  of  the  literature  of 
the  Anglo-Norman  language  during  the  twelfth  century, 
that,  until  the  close  of  the  century,  it  has  no  great  attrac- 
tions, beyond  a  few  historical  productions  which  might  as 
well  have  been  written  in  Latin,  and  one  or  two  metrical  ro- 
mances. These  productions  are  most  valuable  in  a  philo- 
logical point  of  view,  because  they  give  us  the  forms  of 
the  language  at  particular  and  well  ascertained  dates.  This 
language,  in  England,  appears  to  have  gone  through  less 
rapid  changes  than  on  the  Continent ;  and  early  in  the 
thirteenth  century  it  affords  a  means  of  comparison  which 
we  should  not  otherwise  have  possessed.  In  literature, 
this  period  can  only  be  looked  upon  as  an  introduction 
to  the  history  of  French  poetry  in  England  and  on  the 
Continent  in  the  thirteenth  century,  when  its  field  be- 
came extensive,  rich,  and  varied.  The  Latin  writers  of 
the  twelfth  century  contain  many  aUusions  to  the  exist- 
ence  of  the  jongleurs  and  trouveres,  but  it  was  not  till  the 
thirteenth  century  that  their  compositions  were  preserved 
in  writing :  And  then  their  history  in  England  becomes 
more  complicated,  because  a  more  purely  national  literature 
was  springing  up,  in  which  the  other  was  gradually  merged* 

It  would  be  in  vain  to  attempt  a  history  of  English 
literature  in  the  twelfth  century,  because  everything  con- 
nected with  it  is  vague  and  uncertain.  The  proverbs  of 
Alfred,  in  semi-Saxon  verse,  still  preserved,  existed  in 
the  time  of  Ailred  of  Rievaux,  who  mentions  them.*  A 
Bestiary,  written  in  much  the  same  style  and  language, 

*  See  the  Biog.  Brit.  Litenria,  Anglo-Saxon  Period,  p.  396. 


INTRODUCTION.  XXUl 

may  probably  be  of  the  same  date.'*'  A  version  of  the 
popular  metrical  dialogue  or  debate  between  the  body  and 
the  soul  has  also  been  found»  with  a  modernization  of 
Alfric's  Grammar»  in  a  manuscript  of  the  twelfth  century. 
A  translation  into  early  English»  or  semi-Saxon»  of  the 
"  Rule  of  Nuns^'  of  Simon  de  Ghent»  which  is  preserved  in 
several  manuscripts»  and  a  few  collections  of  English 
sermons»  belong  certainly  to  a  period  not  later  than  the 
beginning  of  the  thirteenth  century.t  These  productions» 
of  no  great  importance  in  themselves»  joined  with  the 
larger  works  of  Orm  and  Layamon»  and  the  elegant  poem 
on  the  Owl  and  the  Nightingale  by  Nicholas  de  Guild- 
ford» serve  to  connect  the  Saxon  of  the  Chronicle  with 
the  English  literature  of  the  thirteenth  century. 

*  Both  are  printed  in  the  Reliquiae  Antiquse. 

t  Spedmens  of  all  these  will  be  found  in  the  Reliquiee  Antiqnae. 


BIOGRAPHIA  BRITANNICA  LITERARIA. 


ANGLO-NORMAN  PERIOD, 


SECTION  I,— Thx  Lattbs  Half  op  tbb  EtBVtNTB  CsNTUKTi 

LANFRANC. 

Lanpranc  stands  justly  at  the  head  of  the  Anglo- 
Nonnan  period  of  our  literary  history,  not  only  for  the 
high  position  which  he  held  in  the  state  under  William 
the  Conqueror,  but  because  he  may  be  considered  the 
father  of  Latin  literature  in  England  during  the  ages 
which  followed.*  He  was  a  native  of  Lombardy,  his 
parents  being  of  senatorial  rank  in  the  city  of  Pavia^f  and 
was  bom  about  the  year  1005.^  Although  from  his  child- 
hood Lanfranc  was  destined  to  the  bar,  his  thirst  for 
learning  was  displayed  at  an  early  age,  and,  after  exhaust* 
ing  the  means  of  instruction  in  his  native  city,  he  left  it 
to  visit  the  more  famous  universities  of  Italy.  Having 
made  himself  master  of  all  the  sciences  then  taught,§ 
he  returned  to  Pavia,  and  practised  as  a  pleader  in  the 

*  There  If  a  life  of  Lanfranci  said  to  be  written  by  his  disdple  Milo 
Criipiny  cantor  of  Bee,  shortly  after  hia  death,  and  printed  in  the 
edition  of  bis  collected  works*  The  other  anthorities  of  most  importance 
are,  Orderie.  Vital,  lib.  It.  p.  209,  W.  Malmsb.  de  Pontif.  lib.  i.  p.  205,  «t 
seq.  and  William  of  Jomidges. 

t  Pater  ejus  de  online  illomm  qui  jura  et  leges  ciTitatis  assenrabant  fuit. 
Vita  Lanfrand,  c.  1 .  William  of  Malmsbury  says  only,  Is  gente  Longo- 
bardus,  non  adeo  alijecta  et  obscvra  progenie  oriundns  erat.  De  Gest. 
Pontif.  Ub.  i.  p.  305. 

t  Hist  Lit.  de  France,  toI.  viii.  p.  260. 

i  Ubi  plorimo  tempore  demoratos,  omni  scientia  sieculari  peifecte  Im- 
bntnsrediit.   Vita  Lanfr.  c.  I. 

VOL.  !!•  B 


2  LANFRANC.  [Bom  1005. 

court  with  great  success.  But  the  ambition  which  dis- 
tinguished Lanfranc  through  life,  and  which  was  ill  con- 
cealed by  the  outward  modesty  and  self-restraint  which 
his  biographers  ascribe  to  him,  led  him  to  desert  the 
profession  of  the  law  for  one  which  offered  higher  distinc- 
tions ;  he  crossed  the  Alps,  passed  through  France  into 
Normandy^  and  opened  a  school  at  Avranches.  This 
occurred  subsequently  to  1035,  for  Normandy  was  then 
governed  by  duke  William. 

Lanfranc  possesse4  in  an  eminent  degree  the  qualities 
requisite  for  shining  as  a  teacher,  particularly  at  a  period 
when  in  Normandy  learning  was  in  a  very  low  condi- 
tion. He  had  already  obtained  an  extensive  reputation 
for  his  great  proficiency  in  the  liberal  sciences.  He 
was,  moreover,  eloquent  in  an  extraordinary  degree ;  * 
and  the  school  of  Avranches  was  soon  crowded  with 
•ehoUurs.  In  a  short  time  the  clergy  of  Normandy,  who 
had  previously  been  celebrated  only  for  their  want  of 
education,  became  distinguished  for  the  excellence  of  their 
Latinity.  When  Lanfrano's  reputation  as  a  teacher  had 
beepme  established,  a  new  field  opened  itself  to  his 
ambition.  He  was  as  yet  but  a  layman,  and  could  aspire 
to  no  further  dignity  than  that  of  the  schools ;  the  church 
was  to  him  the  only  road  to  higher  honours  and  power, 
and  the  way  in  which  he  entered  it  was  a  proof  of  his 
political  talent.  He  suddenly  disappeared  from  Avrmiches, 
without  giving  any  intimation  of  the  reason  of  his  de^ 
parturi,  or  the  direction  he  had  taken.  At  that  period 
there  eidsted  a  small  house  of  monks  at  Bee,  which  had 
been  brought  together  by  their  unlettered  abbot  Herluin, 
and  whose  poverty  obliged  them  to  provide  by  manual 
labour  the  common  necessaries  of  life.     Hither  the  teaober 

*  Tomalt  AMmdHa  apposite  diMite  mbm  niptnrTit.    Orimr.  Vltel, 
p.  909. 


Died  1069.}  lanfranc.  S 

of  Avranches  bent  his  steps :  he  found  the  abbot  Herltiin 
occupied  in  the  humblest  domestic  duties^  but  he  was 
not  deterred  from  entering  himself  as  a  member  of  the 
brotherhood.  This  occurred  in  1042.  He  remained  here 
in  the  strictest  privacy  during  three  years,  at  the  end  of 
which  period,  having  been  elected  to  the  office  of  prior, 
he  suddenly  reopened  his  school  in  the  then  small  abbey 
of  Bee.*  At  a  later  period  Lanfiranc's  disciples  spread 
abroad  a  story  relating  to  this  important  step  in  his  life, 
which  was  probably  intended  to  enforce  their  prejudices 
against  the  secular  learning  which  was  then  gaining  ground. 
They  said  that  he  was  on  the  way  from  Avranches  to 
Rouen,  whither  he  intended  to  remove  his  school,  when, 
in  passing  the  woods  on  the  banks  of  the  river  ^  Risla,*  he 
was  attacked  by  robbers,  plundered,  and  bound  to  a  tree, 
his  hoe  covered  with  his  capuce.  Without  any  hope  of 
being  released  in  this  solitary  spot,  Lanfranc  turned  his 
thoughts  to  Him  who  only  had  the  power  to  assist  him, 
but  he  found  that,  amid  his  multifarious  studies,  he  had 
n^lected  to  commit  to  memory  the  forms  of  prayer 
enjoined  by  the  church  (debitas  laudes  Domino).  In  this 
dilemma  he  was  seized  with  bitter  compunction,  and 
made  a  vow  that,  if  he  escaped  with  his  life,  he  would 
tarn  himself  entirely  to  theological  studies  and  pious 
exeroses.f  The  following  morning  he  was  released  by 
some  passengers  who  accidentally  came  to  the  spot,  and, 
inquiring  for  the  poorest  monastic  establishment  in  the 
neighbourhood,  he  was  directed  to  Bee. 
Three  years'  fasting  had  rather  increased  than  dulled 

*  Vita  Unflr.  o».  1, 8.  Ordaric.  Vital,  p.  910.  W.  hfalmab.  4a  Poatlf.  p.  90S. 

t  St  ooayanot  ad  DomimiiD»  Domina  Deai,  ait,  tantam  tampoa  ia  dii- 
oandd  axpaadi,  at  corpoa  at  aBimom  ia  studiis  litararom  attriTl,  at  adbae 
qooflMdo  ta  dabaam  oraia  atqaa  landit  ottoia  tlbl  partolvara  bob  dldid. 
J^\mn  ma  da  baa  tribolatioBa,  at  ago,  ta  aozUianta,  sio  irltam  maam  aorri* 
fare  at  iaititiiare  curabo,  at  tibi  tamre  yaleam  et  tdam.  Vita  LaaftiBct,  a.  Ij 

b2 


4  LA.NFRANC.  [Bom  1005, 

the  growing  appetite  for  learning,  and  no  sooner  war 
Lanfranc's  reappearance  publicly  known,  than  he  was 
surrounded  by  multitudes  of  scholars.    The  glory  of  the 
school  of  Bee  soon  surpassed  that  of  Avranches.*    Lan- 
franc  pretended  that  his  only  object  in  teaching  was  to 
relieve  the  poverty  of  his  monastery ;  but,  in  his  pride  of 
superior  learning,  he  even  showed  his  contempt  for  the 
ignorance  of  his  brethren,  and  when,  with   the  riches 
amassed  from  the  liberality  of  his  scholars  and  their 
friends,  he  proposed  to  pull  down  the  old  lodgings  of  the 
monks,  and  build  a  magnificent  monastery  in  its  place, 
his   proposal  shocked  the  humility  of  abbot  Herluin. 
But  he  overcame  Herluin's  scruples  by  the  same  craftiness 
which  he  appears  to  have  shown  on  several  other  occa- 
sions ;  in  the  midst  of  their  debates  on  the  subject,  the 
old  presbytery  suddenly  fell  to  the  ground,  the  abbot  was 
convinced  that  it  was  an  intimation  from  heaven  of  the 
approval  of  Lanfranc's  designs,  and  the  foundation  of 
the  new  monastery  was  commenced.    The  arrogance  of 
the  scholar  was  not  jconfined  within  the  walls  of  his 
cloister;  it  raised  him  numerous  and  powerful  enemies 
without.     On  one  occasion,  when  duke  William's  chap* 
lain,  bishop  Herfast,  came  to  hear  him  with  a  numerous 
company  of  courtiers,  Lanfranc  insulted  him  by  offering 
him  a  spelling-book.t    Herfast  made  his  complaint  to  the 
duke,  which  was  probably  enforced  by  those  of  many 
others  of  the  offended  Norman  clergy,  and  William  gave 
immediate  orders  to  eject  the  teacher  from  Bee,  and 


*  Ezivit  fama  ejus  FemotiBsimas  Latinitatis  plagas,  eratque  Beccum  mag- 
num et  famoBom  Uteratorae  gymnasiam.  W.  Malmsb.  de  Vit.  Pontif.  p.  5^5 

t  Herfastus  jam  Willielmi  comitis  postea  regis  capellanns,  ad  lamosum 
gymnatiiim  magna  sodonim  et  equoram  pompa  pervenit :  turn  Lanfranciu^ 
ex  prima  coUocutione  intelligens  qaam  prope  nihil  eciret,  abecedariiun  ipsi 
expediendum  appoinit,  ferodam  hominis  Italica  facetia  iUudeni.  W.  Malmabt 
dtVit.Pontif.lib.ii.  p.  238. 


Died  1089.]  LAnfranC.  5 

banish  him  from  Normandy^  and  to  burn  a  farm  or  grange 
dependent  on  the  abbey.  The  latter  part  of  the  duke's 
direction  was  immediately  executed ;  but  Lanfraiic, 
mounted  on  a  lame  horse^  repaired  to  the  court.  ^^  I  am 
ready  to  obey  thy  orders/'  he  said  to  the  duke^  ^'  but  my 
horse  is  ill  fitted  for  speedy  fiight :  give  me  a  better^  and 
thy  wishes  will  be  more  quickly  accomplished/'  The 
duke's  mirth  was  excited  by  the  strange  figure  of  the  monk 
and  his  horse,  which  thus  produced  the  intended  effect ;  a 
brief  interview  was  sufficient  to  make  William  acquainted 
with  the  surpassing  talents  of  the  man  whom  he  was  per- 
secuting, and  from  this  moment  Lanfranc's  life  was  but 
a  series  of  advancements. 

Lanfranc^  now  become  the  intimate  counsellor  of  the 
duke,  found  immediate  opportunities  of  displaying  his 
abilities  to  advantage.  Duke  William  had  disobeyed  the 
pope  in  marrying  his  cousin,  Matilda  of  Flanders,  who  wais 
within  the  limits  of  consanguinity  then  forbidden  by  the 
church,  and  Normandy  was  in  consequence  placed  imder 
the  papal  interdict.  It  appears  that  one  part  of  Lanfiranc's 
offence  had  been  his  open  condemnation  of  that  measure,* 
although  most  of  the  early  historians  pass  over  this  cir- 
cumstance in  silence.  He  now  declared  himself  in  favour 
of  the  marriage,  repaired  to  Rome  in  1050,  and,  by 
representing  the  political  advantages  to  be  derived  from 
a  toleration  of  it,  obtained  the  repeal  of  the  interdict*o]l 
the  condition  that  the  duke  and  duchess  should  each  of 
them  found  a  monastery  at  Caen.  A  circumstance  which 
now  happened  raised  Lanfranc's  influence  at  Rome,  and 
probably  contributed  not  a  little  to  the  success  of  his 
negociations  for  the  duke*  One  of  Lanfiranc^s  scholastic 
friends  was  the  famous  Berengarius,  who  taught  at  Tours, 

*  Vita  Lanfrancij  c.  3. 


$  1.4NFRANQ.  [B^m  lOOl. 

imd  who  was  now  «ctiyely  spreading  his  opinionst  Ht 
declaiedi  in  opposition  to  the  doctrine  then  held  by  the 
chureh  of  Rome,  that  the  eucharistic  bread  and  wine  were 
not  transubstantiated  into  the  real  body  and  blood  of  Christ. 
It  does  not  appear  that  the  opinions  of  the  western  church 
were  as  yet  uniform  on  this  subject»  and  it  is  probable  that 
Lanfranc  had  shared  in  the  doctrine  of  Berengarius;  at 
least  he  appears  to  have  been  seriously  compromised  by 
some  letters  between  him  and  Berengarius  which  had 
accidentally  been  made  public*  The  ostensible  object  of 
his  journey  to  Rome  was  to  clear  himself  from  these  sus*» 
picionsj  and  he  gave  such  full  satisfaction  of  his  orthodox 
opinions  at  that  time,  and  such  proofs  of  his  skill  as  a 
controversialist,  that  he  was  from  that  period  looked  upon 
as  the.  champion  of  the  church  against  the  heretical 
doctrines  of  its  adversary,  and  in  that  capacity  he  was 
present  at  the  councils  of  Rome  and  VerceUi  in  the  same 
year.  He  returned  to  Bee  towards  the  end  of  the  year 
(1050),  and  continued  his  teaching  until  1066,*  when 
duke  William,  having  finished  his  monastery  of  St« 
Stephen  at  Caen,  made  Lanfranc  its  first  abbots  and  be 
removed  thither  his  schools,  which  had  increased  in 
celebrity  since  the  display  of  his  dialectical  learning  in 
the  controversy  with  Berengarius,  and  were  now  fre- 
quented by  scholars,  not  only  from  Normandy^  but  from 
France,  Gascony,  Bretagne^  and  Flander8.t 

In  1070,  when  William,  then  king  of  England^  had 

*  See  Le  Provost,  note  on  Orderic.  Vit«l.  lib.  W.  p.  213.  The  eommoa 
aoconnt  sayi  in  1063,  which  agrees  with  W.  of  Malmsburj^s  statement  (De 
Qest  Font,  p*  31S)  that  Anselm  was  prior  cf  Bee  fifteen  jrears ;  bat  Orde- 
rions,  who  liv^d  so  soon  after  Anselm,  seems  to  have  been  too  well  aoqnainted 
with  the  history  of  the  Norman  abbeys  to  hare  fallen  into  an  error. 

f  Ftoma  perititt  illius  hi  tota  nbertira  innotait  Europa ;  unde  ad  magis- 
term»  cjns  malti  coaYeoeniiit  de  Freacia,  de  Wasoonia,  de  Britaonia,  neene 
Plandria.  Order.  Vital,  lib.  iy.  p.  210. 


DM  lost «]  liANVBANCi.  t 

d«po««d  «rehbiahop  8tig«nd|  with  several  other  Angloi» 
Saxon  prelates,  he  invited  Lanfranc  to  England  to  take 
the  vaoant  aee  of  Canterbuty.  But  I^anfifane^  who  had 
already  refiieed  the  arehbishoprie  of  Roven,  exhibited  at 
least  a  feigned  reluetanoe^  and  deelined  the  honouri 
although  in  the  sequel  he  was  compelled  to  aoeept  it 
by  the  nigent  solieitatlona  of  the  king,  the  pop4#  and 
above  all^  as  he  saidi  by  those  of  his  aged  frietid  abbot 
Herlnin*  He  was  consecrated  archbishop  of  Canterbury 
on  the  29th  et  August^  1070 }  and  he  immediately  pr<H 
seeded  to  treat  the  Eoglish  ehurch  in  the  same  manner 
as  his  royal  master  had  treated  the  people.  Within  the 
space  of  a  few  years  a  laige  part  of  the  native  English 
dergy  was  deprivedi  in  order  to  make  room  for  foreigners* 
He  Anglo-Saxon  churchy  during  the  whole  «of  this  cen<* 
tury#  had  been  more  or  less  obnoxious  to  the  papal  courts 
and  the  Norman  conquest  was  considered  by  the  pope  ai 
a  signal  victory  of  Catholicism.  Lanfranc  ejected  entirely 
the  secular  olerks>  who  had  recovered  their  position  in  the 
church  since  the  time  of  Dunstan,  and  supplied  their  plaee 
with  monks.  He  even  treated  with  contempt  the  memory 
of  the  AngIo*Saxon  saints  i  he  abolished  every  part  of  the 
Anglo-Saxon  service  which  differed  from  the  continental 
practice ;  he  reduced  the  see  of  York  to  subjection  to  that 
of  Canterbury ;  and  he  would  have  deposed  the  amiable 
and  venerable  bishop  Wulstan.  In  return^  as  a  mark  of 
especial  favour,  he  restored  to  the  English  bishops  the 
precedency  in  the  council  and  parliament,  according  to  the 
order  which  had  been  in  use  under  the  Saxon  monarohs.* 
But,  in  the  sequel,  he  conferred  a  more  solid  benefit  oil 
England  by  the  number  of  scholars  whom  he  brought 
over,  and  who  laid  the  foundation  of  a  school  in  which 

*  W.  MalmBb.dtQMi.lcs«Ub.iiLp.  lis* 


8  LANFRANC.  [BoTn  1005. 

science  and  literature  were  cultivated  to  a  much  greater 
extent  than  under  the  Anglo-Saxons. 
/  The  remainder  of  Lanfranc's  life  belongs  rather  to  his- 

/  tory  than  to  literature.  He  was  the  favourite  counsellor 
^  of  the  Conqueror^  and  was  entrusted  with  the  reins  of 
government  during  his  absence  in  Normandy»  We  owe^ 
probably^  to  his  wisdom  much  of  the  moderation  which 
characterised  this  king's  reign.*  The  dispute  with  the  see 
of  York  was  long  and  obstinate.  In  107 1  I^nfranc  made 
his  last  visit  to  Rome^  in  company  with  archbishop 
Thomas  of  York  and  Remigius  of  Lincoln,  The  pope 
received  him  with  unusual  marks  of  respect,  and  delivered 
him  the  palUum  with  his  own  hand«  Lanfranc  then  laid 
before  the  pontiff  his  claims  to  spiritual  sovereignty  over 
the  see  of  York ;  but  the  pope  recommended  him  to  try  this 
question  in  a  national  council,  which  was  held  at  London 
in  1072,  and  decided  in  his  favour.  Lanfiranc  occupied 
himself  very  actively  with  his  reforms  in  the  English 
church.  Two  councils  were  held  at  Winchester  in  1076, 
for  the  regulation  of  church  discipline,  which  were  especi- 
ally directed  against  the  wives  of  priests»  Another  council 
was  held  at  London  in  1078,  in  which  some  changes  were 
made  in  the  episcopal  sees.  In  the  following  year,  or 
early  in  1080,  Lanfranc  wrote  his  celebrated  treatise 
against  Berengarius.t 

The  monkish  writers  extol  Lanfranc  for  his  liberality 
and  affability.    They  represent  him  as  willingly  absenting 

*  The  writer  of  Lenfranc's  Ufe  says  that  at  one  of  the  gteat  festiTitieSt 
Qoidam  scurra  videos  regem  anro  et  gemmis  radiantem»  ezclamant  in  aula 
magna  adnlationis  Toce,  et  dixit,  **  Ecoe  Denm  video,  ecce  Demn  video  I"  and 
that  the  king,  at  Lanfranc's  request,  ordered  him  to  be  beaten  for  his  gross 
attempt  at  flattery.    Vita  Lanfranci,  c.  13. 

t  This  appears  from  the  circumstance  that  it  contains  an  allusion  to  the 
Council  of  Rome  in  1078,  and  that  it  must  have  been  composed  before 
Berengarins*!  retraction  of  his  opinions  in  1080. 


Died  1089.3  lanfranc.  9 

himself  from  the  duties  laid  upon  him  by  the  state  to 
watch  over  the  welfare  of  his  own  diocese.  The  latter 
years  of  his  life  appear  to  have  been  chiefly  spent  in  en- 
riching and  enlarging  his  cathedral  and  the  monasteries 
which  were  in  his  more  immediate  neighbourhood.  His 
charity  was  felt  by  all  classes  that  were  in  need  of 
his  support.  Soon  after  his  appointment  to  the  arch- 
bishopric of  Canterbury^  he  had  sent  for  the  aged  abbot 
Herluin ;  and  in  1077  he  returned  the  visit,  and  conse- 
crated the  new  church  of  Bee.  He  preserved  his  love  of 
literature  through  life ;  he  frequently  employed  his  leisure 
in  hearing  the  disputations  of  poor  scholars,  and  dismissed 
them  with  handsome  presents.*  He  spent  much  of  his 
time  in  correcting  the  English  manuscripts  of  the  Fathers 
and  of  the  Scriptures,  and  in  reducing  the  text  of 
botb  to  strict  conformity  with  that  which  was  then  re- 
cognised as  authentic  at  Rome ;  t  for  the  manuscripts  in 
England  represented  the  text  as  it  had  existed  at  an 
earlier  period,  and  they  were  also  probably  filled  with 
errors  of  the  copyists,  the  Anglo-Saxon  scribes  being 
extremely  inaccurate.  The  writers  of  the  Histoire  Litte-» 
raire  de  France  speak  of  manuscripts  existing  in  the  last 
century  which  were  corrected  by  the  hand  of  Lanfranc,  and 
which  sometimes  contained  his  observations  in  the  margin  ;| 
and  Dacherius  has  printed  among  Lanfranc's  works  four 

*  Nee  pudebatarchiepiflcopum  alte  suocinctum  pauperibus  cibos  apponere, 
et  tenuioris  fortune  scholarea  ad  diapntationiiiii  pngnam  committere.  Post 
rerba  utrique  laeti  abibant,  dam  et  victor  scientue  premium  et  yictus  ac« 
ciperet  verecundiie  solatiom.    W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Pontif.  p.  S14. 

t  Lectioni  erat  assiduas  et  ante  episcopatum  et  in  episcopatu  quantum 
poterat.  Et  quia  scriptnr»  aciiptomm  vitio  erant  nimium  corrupte,  omnes 
tam  Veteris  quam  Nori  Testamenti  libros,  necnon  etiam  acripta  sanctorum 
patnmiy  secundum  orthodoxam  fidem  studuit  corrigere.  Et  etiam  multa  de 
his  quibus  utimur  nocte  et  die  in  servitio  eeclesin  ad  unguem  emendavit : 
et  hoc  non  tantum  per  se,  sed  etiam  per  discipulofl  fecit.  Vita  Lanfranciy 
c  15« 

t  Hkt*  Litr  dc  ftance^  vol.  Yiii.  p.  987» 


10  I.AN9IIAN0.  [B0m  lOM. 

sucb  notes  on  the  Collationei  P^tnun  of  Johannes  Caeii* 
anus.  Perhaps  the  Anglo-Saxon  writers  received  some 
mutilation  in  the  progress  of  correction^  for  we  have  still 
manuscripts  in  which  passages  relating  to  the  doctrine  of 
the  Eucharist  hare  been  erased*  In  his  earlier  days  Lan* 
franc  had  been  distinguished  for  his  attachment  to  dialee* 
ticsj  but  after  his  advance  in  the  church  he  spoke  of  that 
science  in  a  disparaging  manner,  and  mamtained  that  in 
matters  of  faith  authority  ought  to  supersede  argument. 
The  following  extract  from  the  seventh  chapter  of  the 
celebrated  treatise  against  Berengarius  contains  his  opi* 
nions  on  this  subject,  and  affords  a  specimen  of  his  style 
of  writing  and  of  reasoning  :— 

B<r#i^^«Hit«.  Npn  enim  oonitare  potent  »Slrmatio  onmii,  parte  imlmtt  i 
et  hoc  tieat  didt  beatui  Aagaftinva  in  libro  de  Doctrina  Christiana :  inipaa 
•ternitatii  Teiftate,  qn»  Devi  ett  inditsoluMUter  coattat. 

lAo^flrmmeut»  Raliotli  saeria  aufhoritataboa  ad  Dialeotiaam  oaeA^im 
fiMsii.  Et  qvidam  de  myaterio  fidei  anditnrua  ao  feiponionia,  qiue  ad  rem 
debeaat  pertinere  maUem  audire,  ac  retpondere  sacraa  authoritatea  quam 
dialedieaa  fatlaeaa.  Vwnni  contra  li«6  qmoqme  noilrl  erit  atndii  Mapeetoe» 
ne  qpaina  artia  inopia  ma  pntea  in  hac  tiU  parte  deeaae :  fortaaae  jaetsetla 
qnibnadam  fidebitor,  et  oatentationi  masia  quam  neoesaitati  depntabitnr. 
Sed  teatia  mihi  Dena  eat  et  conadentia  mea,  quia  in  tractatu  ditlnantm  lite- 
rana  see  prapeetie  nee  ad  prepeailaa  raapondere  evperen  dIaleetleeaqvM- 
tionea  Tel  eanun  aolutionea.  Btaiquando  materia  diapntandi  lalia  eatt  et 
biqna  artia  regvlaa  yaleat  enudeatins  explicari,  in  quantum  poaaom  per  «qui- 
pottentiaa  prepeaitionum  tego  artem,  ne  ridear  magia  arte  quam  teritate 

sanoloruiqua  patrum  amtheritale  coBidera Adhne  alio  argemaaW 

probate  oontendia,  panem  Tinumque  poat  conaecrationem  in  principaUbua 
permanere  eiaentiia,  dicens,  Non  enim  conatare  potent  aArmatio  omnia, 
parte  aubruta.  Ad  eqna  rei  probattonem  non  oportuit  iaferri  parlMhurem 
negationemt  qua  de  pnaaanti  qnaationa  nihil  oolisitwr»  aed  nniferaalaai 
potlnat  per  quam  ennntlalur,  nuUa  afirmatio  eonstere  poterit  parte  anbnta. 
Age  enim  particularia  lit  negatio  tna,  non  omnia  aflrmatb  eonataro  pofearll 
parte  anbrmta,  ruraua  aaaomptio  tua.  Fania  et  Tinmm  altaria  foleaMBodo  aunt 
Moramentum,  rtl  pania  et  Tinum  altaria  aolemaMde  ami  Temm  ChtM 
oerpua  at  aanguia;  utrumque  aifirmatio  eat.  Hla  doabua  partleelarfbw 
pnaoedemtibQa,  poleriane  regulariter  oonelndeie,  parte  lubruta  ea  non  aaat 
oonatare  ?  Abait.  In  nulla  quippe  ayllogiamorum  Sgira»  pmoedeuMbua 
duabua  partioularibua  eonaeqeenter  inlertur  eoneluaio  uQa.  Male  IgUmr  earn 
coUocaati.  lUud  yero  perfunctorie  non  est  prKtereundum,  quod  praSita 
propoaitionia  tn»  reritatem  in  ipaa  trtereUsia  twitato»  fMl  Dssi  asi;  Ma- 


DM  1089*}  liANf  AANO.  1 1 

toUiVUItor  QOiiittre  pwtril^uiiti,  ldg«t  bMH  A«|«iUni  dt  Pootnu  ChilititiM 
authoriUto  firmafti.  fitqaidem  propoiitio  iptatera  est,  yersque  propo- 
MonUiPltt iM lo^ pMita •bttatrtl:  «td  ttt  auOi  «(  Itttafadlcr  «k  pd« 
ndtlli  A«. 

It  ia  Mid  thiit  tawttrda  the  end  of  WiUimn'a  reign  Lift* 
finuio  hed  lost  some  pert  of  the  royel  feroiir.  On  the 
king's  death  in  1087i  he  and  Wolstan  of  Worcester  were 
the  prlndpal  means  of  fiaing  the  orown  on  the  head  of 
his  son  WiUiatn  Rufus^  to  the  prejudice  of  his  elder 
fasother  Robert.*  Lanlrane  survived  his  benefactor  only 
nineteen  months ;  he  died  on  the  28th  of  May,  1089^  and 
wu  buried  in  his  cathedral  at  Canterbury.  He  was 
long  remembered  in  Kent  for  the  good  usages  he  had 
introduoedit  and  for  the  number  of  churches  and  houses 
which  he  had  erected  in  the  arohiepiscopal  manors.^  Ilie 
Saxon  Chronicle  gives  him  the  tide  (which  had  been  ap« 
plied  to  Eihelwald  and  Dunstan)  of  the  father  and  pro* 
tector  of  monks«§ 

Although  Lanfranc  bad  done  so  much  to  promote  diei 
extension  of  learning»  and  had  founded  in  England  a  new 
school  of  l4atinists>  yet»  as  was  remarked  in  the  age  whieh 
followed  his  death»  |i  he  left  few  monuments  of  hie  own 

*  T«ta  hf  BobiUlM  Aiiglla  tohimnit  emiiM  Robertam  In  ngesi»  «k. 
oepio  I^tnfranooarcluf  piioopo  Cantnarenai  et  W^lrtano  epiMiopo  WygornitBiL 
Radborne,  Hist.  Mag.  Wint.  ap.  Wharton,  p.  363. 

t  Hie  mnltaa  bonas  coaaaatadliiea  fecit:  eaaqueperpetim obierrari  deberv 
■t^tmt  at  pnMapit«    Birohiagton,  Yit.  Arch.  Cant  p.  6^  ap«  Wharton. 

X  In  maneriif  ad  avohiepiioopum  pertinentibiu  moltaa  et  honestea  eodealaa 
«diilcaYit,  multaa  et  honeatiaaimaa  domoa  pneparaTit.  MS.  Cotton.  Cland« 
C.  VI.  M.  168, 1«,  written  in  the  tweUUi  eentnry.  Conf.  Wharton,  Ang. 
Saer.  L  p.  I»5. 

$  An,  1089.  On  Naum  geare  se  anmrSa  moneca  feder  -j  froTer  Landfiiar 
aroebbcop  ge-wat  of  Miram  life ;  ac  we  hopiat$  j(  he  ferde  to  -p  heofanlloe  rice» 

i)  Tk  9f4m  Indnatriaai  pnedieabit  Cantia,  et^w  doetrtnam  in  diid^alli  ijw 
itupebit  Latinitas,  qnantam  omnea  anni  dorabant.  Nam  ipse  panen  ^«^pftjl 
aui  monumenta  reliqnit,  decretalea  epistolafl,  et  pnedpnam  contra  Bereqga- 
rinm.  W.  Malmsb.  de  Qest.  Pontif.  p.  31  d.  Osbum,  who  wrote  at  hit  order 
the  life  of  St.  dphae*»  ^f^  ^s  pralae  ol  Lanftane,  Ac  qnemadnodnni  pna* 
d]^te  invi^Hnimo  ioiiim  IdithUiMik  mi^tro  Laoftranooarchiepiaoopo,  fee. 


12  LANFRAKC,  [Bom  1005. 

scholarship.  His  principal  work  is  the  treatise  against 
Berengarius^  written  at  the  close  of  1079>  or  early  in, 
1080^  and  addressed  to  Berengarius  in  the  form  of  a 
letter.  Many  manuscripts  of  this  work  exists  and  it  has 
been  frequently  printed.  It  is  sometimes  found  under 
the  singular  title  of  lAber  Scintiliarum»  The  more 
common  title  is^  ^^  Liber  de  Corpore  et  Sanguine  Domini 
contra  Berengarium.^^  It  is  directed  to  Berengarius  in 
the  following  words:  '^Lanfrancus  misericordia  Dei 
catholicus  Berengario  catholicee  ecclesiee  adversario.^^ 

2.  The  editor  of  his  collected  works  has  published  under 
the  name  of  Lanfranc  a  commentary  on  the  Epistles  of  St. 
Paul^  which  the  writers  of  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de  France 
believe  not  to  be  his,  because  two  passages  cited  by  Sige- 
bert  from  Lanfranc's  Commentary  on  the  Hebrews  are  not 
found  in  it.  In  a  fine  manuscript  of  the  twelfth  century 
in  the  British  Museum  (MS.  Reg.  4  B.  iv.),  which  for- 
merly belonged  to  the  priory  of  Worcester,  we  find  a  copy 
of  Lanfranc's  Commentary  on  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul  to 
the  Romans  and  Corinthians,  at  the  conclusion  of  which 
the  scribe  seems  to  have  been  interrupted  in  his  labours. 

r 

It  appears  by  comparison  with  this  that  the  printed  work 
is  an  abridged  copy  of  Lanfranc,  which  accounts  for  the 
omission  of  the  passages  quoted  by  Sigebert.  It  appears 
also  that  Mabillon  had  in  his  possession  a  perfect  copy  of 
this  work.  In  the  manuscript  of  the  British  Museum 
just  alluded  to,  Lanfranc's  commentary  is  followed 
by  anonymous  commentaries  on  the  Song  of  Solomon 
and  the  Apocalypse,  which  have  been  attributed  also  to 
Lanfranc,  but  (as  there  is  every  reason  to  believe,)  erro- 
neously. 

3.  These,  with  sixty  Epistles,  chiefly  on  ecclesiastical 
matters,  Lanfranc's  Regulations  for  the  English  Benedic-» 
tine  Monks  (Decreta  Lanfrand  pro  ordine  S.  Benedict!), 


XHed  1089.]  lanfrano.  13 

and  a  brief  tract  De  celanda  confessione  (which  the  writers 
of  the  Histoire  Litt&aire  de  France  believe  to  be  suppo- 
sititious)^  form  the  collection  of  his  works  published  by 
Dacherius. 

4.  The  editor,  however,  subsequently  discovered  ano- 
ther short  tract  or  discourse  by  Lanfranc,  which  he  printed 
in  his  Spicilegium,  under  the  title  of  Sermo  sive  Sententia* 

5.  There  is  extant  another  book,  frequently  found  in 
manuscripts  without  any  name  of  author,  and  sometimes 
attributed  to  Anselm,  which  we  think  was  written  by  Lan- 
franc, probably  before  his  elevation  to  the  see  of  Canter- 
cury.  It  is  composed  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between  a 
master  and  his  disciples,  and  is  entitled  Elucidarium^ 
because,  as  its  author  informs  us,  its  object  was  to  eluci- 
date some  obscure  questions,  chiefly  in  theology,  on  which 
his  disciples  had  asked  for  his  judgment.  In  a  manu- 
script of  this  work  preserved  in  the  British  Museum,* 
written  probably  early  in  the  twelfth  century,  it  is  dis-^ 
tinctly  attributed  to  Lanfranc  in  the  following  contempo- 
rary Rubric :  Incipit  Liber  beati  Lanfranci  Cantuariensis 
archiepiscopi  in  sagacitate  omnium  sacri  eloquii  exposi- 
torum.  The  writers  of  the  Histoire  Litteraire  de  France 
have  made  the  strange  statement,  that  the  Elucidarium  is 
nothing  but  the  Commentary  on  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul 
under  another  name.f 

It  is  clear  that  some  of  Lanfranc's  writings  are  lost. 
His  disciple  William  abbot  of  Mersburg  speaks  of  his 
Commentary  on  the  Psalms.^  Eadmer  §  mentions  a  brief 
history  of  the  church  by  Lanfranc,  which  is  probably  the 
same  as  the  history  of  his  own  time,  which  appears  to  have 
been  extant  in  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries,  and 
as  the  work  which  Sigebert  calls  the  praises,  triumphs, 

« 

♦  MS.  Reg.  5  E.  VI.  f  Hist.  Lit.  de  France,  vol.  viii.  p.  29T. 

:  Conf.  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  viii.  294.  §  Hiit.  Nov.  p.  30. 


14  LANVRANO.  [JSOfll  1005. 

and  deeds  (laudes,  triumphosi  et  res  gestas)  of  l^^Uiam 
the  Conqueror.  The  lists  of  the  older  bibliographers  give 
titles  of  many  works  by  Lanfranc  which  certainly  never 
existed :  Bale  has  made  a  number  of  different  works  out 
of  the  one  treatise  against  Berengarius. 

BdUUnu. 

Aooordlag  to  F»bridiif ,  the  fint  printed  edition  of  the  treitite  of  Lufirane 
•gainit  Berengarins  was  edited  bj  FraD9oiB  Carri  (Frandaoiii  Carreat), 
but  he  does  not  mention  the  date. 

PUlaftrii  Epiioopi  Briziensis  Hsresetfn  Catalogns.  Cui  adjeetu  eat  eradi- 
tlisiflana  libeUna  Lanfirand  episcopi  Canthnariensis  de  Saorame&to 
BnoharittiaB  adTersos  Berengariom  none  recens  editi.  Edited  bj  John 
Sichard.  Baaili«,  ez  officina  Frobenii,  1528.  8to.  Pantser  mentions  a 
pMTions  edition  of  this  ▼olnme,  without  date  or  name  of  place. 

There  wai  a  reprint  of  this  Tolnme  in  1551 . 

Lanfrancns  adrersus  Berengariam,  was  again  printed  with  Pasohasiiu  Bad* 
bertns,  8to.  1540.  It  was  included  among  the  Orthodoxograpbi,  fai 
1565,  and  was  giren  in  all  the  early  colleetlons  published  under  the  title 
of  Bibliotheca  Patmm. 

It  was  printed  with  the  writings  of  Algerus,  Guimundns,  &o.  by  Ultimerius, 
Bto.  Loran.  1561. 

Apoitolatus  Benedietiaorum  in  AngUa,  sive  Diaeeptatio  Historiea  de  Anti- 
qultate  ordinis  congregationisque  Monachorum  Nigrorom  Saneti  Bene- 
dicti  in  Regno  Angli»  ....  Opera  et  Industria  R.  P.  Clementis  Rey- 
heiL  Duad»  16S6.  fol.  pp.  911— S53,  Decreta  D.  Lanfiraadpro  Or- 
4ae  8.  Benedicti. 

Bead  Lanliraiid  Caotoariepsia  Arohiepisoopi  et  Aa|^  Primalia,  Ordinis  S. 
Benedicti,  Opera  omnia  qun  reperiri  potuenmt,  erulgaTlt  Oomnus  Lu* 
eat  Daeherius.  .  .  .  Luteds  Parisionim,  1648.  fol. 

IVAehertt  Spidlegiom,  4to.  16SS.77.  torn.  It.  p.  SfT.ieeend  edit.  fol.  I7t3, 
tom.  i.  p.  449.    Sermo  sive  sententia  Lanf^nd  ardiiepiscopi. 

Maxima  Bibliotheca  Veterum  Patntm.  Tomus  Deeimus  Octayus.  Lug« 
dnai,  1677.  fol.  pp.  69l-«76S,  Beati  Laaihmd . .  in  omnes  D.  Panli 
tpiftolaa  Commentarii,  eu«  glossula  iateijecta.*^pp.  768—777.  DIti 
Lanfrand. .  adversus  Berengarimn  Turonensem,  de  Corpore  et  San* 
guiae  Domini.— pp.  778 — 806,  Decreta  Lanftrand  pro  Ordine  Saneti 
Beaadieti.<«^pp.  807'^8Sd»  Beati  LaafraDci..Epistolanim  liber.— pp. 
8S6— 833,  Beati  l^anfrand  Cantuariensia  Arohiepisoopi  de  odanda  con- 
Ibsdone  libellus. — ^p.  833,  Ejusdem  Lanfrand  Ardiiepisoopi  Cantua- 
lieaila  sermo  dre  sententls. 

Letters,  Venice,  1633.  4to.  (indicated  by  Watt.) 


IHed  abwt  1076.]     out  bishop  of  amixni.  IS 


GUY  BISHOP  OF  AMIENS. 

Among  the  Norman  prelates  who  came  over  to  England 
after  the  Conquest^  was  Ouy  bishop  of  Amiens,  who, 
although  his  stay  was  not  of  long  duration,  deserves  to  be 
mentioned  here  on  account  of  the  Latin  poem  which  he 
composed,  probably  at  the  king's  desire,  on  the  battle  of 
Hastings.  He  was  the  almoner  of  queen  Matilda,  whom 
he  accompanied  to  England  in  1068.*  He  appears  to 
have  been  a  friend  of  Lanfranc,  to  whom  he  dedicates  his 
poem  in  a  brief  prologue.  He  died  in  or  before  the  year 
1076, 

The  poem  of  Ouy  of  Amiens  is  preserved  in  a  manu- 
script at  Brussels ;  and  is  important  for  the  interesting 
and  authentic  details  it  contains  relating  to  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  Normans  immediately  after  their  arrival  in 
England.  The  style  in  which  this  poem  is  written  is  very 
mean.  The  following  lines  afford  a  fair,  perhaps  a  favour- 
able specimen.  Guy  says  that  William  refused  to  give 
Harold's  body  to  his  mother : — 


lUsilt  pottqvtm  fhmU  oUrwtiiM  Uapu, 

£t  maadnm  ftirvii  expiat  a  tenebriiv 
LvstniTit  campnin,  toUmu  et  cma  enoniin 

GMpora,  dux  teme  oondidit  in  gremio. 
Vermibai  atqnalapti,  avibw  oanilmBqne  Toranda 

Deteiit  Aiiglonim  corpora  strata  solo. 
Heraldl  oorpvf  ooU«glt  dllaotrttnm, 

CoUactnm  lexit  dudose  pvrpvroa, 
Detolit  at  Menm  repetent  sua  oMtra  marina, 

Biplaat  «t  tolitu  fimerit  ezequiai. 
Hfvtldl  «wtar  aimio  oooftriota  dolora 

Miiit  ad  ntqiia  dnetm»  pottulat  et  predbiu 


*  la  den»  qui  ad  dhlaa  ei  ministraliat,  Celebris  Guido  Ambiaaomm  pne- 
ml  «niasbat,  q«i  Jam  Mrtamta  Heraldi  at  GoUItlml  TeniSee  ediderat. 
OrdwiOM  VitaUt,  Hilt  Sod.,  lib.  iv.  p.  181,  (ed.  Le  Pre? ott) ;  lae  aUo  the 
tame  writar,  lib.  lii,  p.  158,  with  M.  Le  Prevost's  note ;  and  QaiUkume  de 
JamUfM,  Ub.  Ti.  0.  43« 


16  OEELAND*  {^Flourished  1082, 

Orbattt  misene  natU  tribus  et  Tiduatae 

Pro  tribus  uniuB  reddat  ut  ossa  sibi. 
Si  placet)  ant  corpus  puro  proponderet  auro ; 

Sed  dux  iratus  prorsusi  utrumque  negat, 
Jurans  quod  potius  pnesentis  littora  portus 

Illi  committet  aggere  sub  lapidum. 
Ergo  yelut  fiierat  testatus,  rupis  in  alto 

Precepit  claudi  vertice  corpus  humi. 
Extempio  quidam  partim  Normannus  et  Anglus 

Compatit  Heraldi ;  jussa  libenter  agit : 
Corpus  enim  regis  cito  sustulit  et  sepeliTit 

Imponens  lapidem,  scripsit  et  in  titulo : 
''  Per  mandata  ducis,  rex»  hie,  Heralde,  quiescii, 

Ut  custos  maneas  littoris  et  pelagi." 

The  concluding  lines  of  this  extract  remind  us  of  a 
similar  sentiment  in  an  extract  from  an  Anglo-Saxon 
poem^  given  in  the  introduction  to  our  Biography  of  the 
Anglo-Saxon  period.* 

Editiofu, 

Appendix  C.  to  Mr.  Purton  Cooper's  Report  on  Rymer*s  Fosdera»  pp. 

78 — 86.     De  Bello  Normannico,  seu  de  Conquisitione  Anglitt  per 

Guilelmum  ducem  NormannisBi  Carmen  elegiacum.  Edited  by  Mr.  W« 

H.  Black. 
Collection  of  Historians  edited  by  order  of  the  Record  Commission,  vol.  i. 

pp.  856 — 872.    De  bello  Hastingensi  carmen,  auctore  W. 
Chroniques  Anglo-Normandes. . . .  recueil. . . .  public  par  Francisque  Michel. 

Tome  troisi^me.    Rouen,  1840.  8yo.  pp.  1—38.    Widonis  carmen  de 

Hasting»  Prtelio. 

GERLAND. 

Gerland  is  the  earliest  known  writer  in  England  on 
mathematical  science  after  the  Norman  Conquest.  So 
little  is  known  of  his  personal  history^  that  he  has  gene- 
rally been  confounded  with  John  de  Garlandia^  who  lived 
in  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century,  and  he  was  sup- 
posed by  the  authors  of  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de  Francef 
to  have  been  a  French  monk  of  the  twelfth  century.  Bos- 
ton of  Bury,  as  quoted  by  Tanner,  states  that  Gerland 

*  P.  11.  t  Hist.  Litt.  de  Fr.  vol.  xli.  p.  288. 


JFIoumhed  1062.]  gbblanp.  17 

flourished  in  1040;  which,  however,  is  not  correct,  for 
Roger  Infans,  who  wrote  on  the  same  subject  in  1124, 
informs  us  that  Gerland  had  observed  an  eclipse  of  the 
sun  in  1086,*  and  Gerland's  own  tables  published  in  his 
treatise  on  the  Computus  begin  with  the  year  1182,  in 
which  year,  or  in  the  year  preceding,  the  book  was  most 
probably  composed.  There  is  a  good  copy  of  Oerland's 
treatise  on  the  Computus  in  the  British  Museum ;  t  the 
author  appears  to  be  learned  in  his  subject,  and  avows  that 
his  design  in  compiling  this  work  was  to  correct  and  clear 
up  the  errors  and  doubts  of  his  predecessors,  especially  of 
Bede. 

The  following  is  the  preface  to  this  work,  (from  the 
manuscript  in  the  British  Museum,)  which,  while  it  may 
serve  as  a  specimen  of  the  style  of  one  of  our  early  men 
of  science,  shows  how  cautiously  and  timorously  the 
philosophers  of  the  old  school  ventured  to  question  the 
doctrines  handed  down  to  them  from  the  ^^  masters,^'  at 
the  moment  when  a  new  school,  founded  upon  that  of  the 
Arabs,  was  on  the  point  of  making  the  most  daring  inno- 
vations, and  questioning  every  thing  which  had  been  done 
in  previous  times, 

Saepe  yoluiiiina  donmi  Bed»  de  scientia  computandi  repUcans,  et  in  eia 
qnedam  aliter  qnam  traditio  doctonun  pnesentium  ostenderet  reperieni, 
Dei  fretos  adjatorio,  Denm  inyocans  praeesse  meo  stadio,  qots  Tisa  mihi  fae* 
rant  ntilissima  inde  pro  captu  ing^ioli  mei  defloravii  et  deflorata  com  qui- 
bnsdam  aliunde  conquisitiain  unam  congessi.  Qaseso  itaqne  si  unquam  hnc 
compatationia  fimbria,  hsec  styli  ariditaa,  haec  scientise  gntta  ad  alicujas 
intnitam  penrenerit,  ne  statim  in  monnm  livoria  dentes  acuat,  ne  anteqoam 
perlegat  praejudicet,  ne  siqoid  in  toto  notandnm  invenerit,  pro  parte  totum 
nt  nonnulli  solent  yituperet,  qnandoquidem,  ut  aiant  quidam  non  insipien- 
tium,  nihil  est  ab  omni  parte  beatum.  Non  equidem  me  latet  quosdam  qni 
Ulpricum  legenmt,  et  tabulam  Dionysii  videmnt,  aliter  in  quibusdam  sen- 

*  Tempore  antem  Gerlandi  facta  est  eclypsis  solis,  anno  Domini  secandnm 
ipsum  M.lxxz.vi.,  licet  tabvdam  snperiorem  prius  incepit.  Bibl.  Bodl.  MS. 
Digby,  No.  40,  fol.  49,  ▼•. 

t  MS.  Cotton.  Vespas.  A.  ix. 

VOL.   II.  C 


18  ROBERT  BlditO^  Of  HEREFORD.      [DM  1095. 

ttre  qiium  ego ;  feed  slquu  Bedam  perlegeiit)  sfc  natttralem  eompottuii  ItMire 
▼oltierit,  hie  «t  arbitror  partim  auctoritati,  partim  artis  natur»  adquiesoena, 
non  indigne  feret  hie  quedam  podta  qaae  obviare  Tiderunt  Dionysio,  quft- 
dam  antem  quae  tJlprico.  Nee  in  hoe  tantnm  eos  censeo  per  omnia  redat*- 
fttettdoi,  Bi  in  aliqnaiti  paHetn  oparii  lomnttB  obrepierit,  quia  apiritni  nbi 
mlt  fpirat,  aliquando  antem  nt  ardentius  qneratur  inbterfngit. 

Oerlatid  was  also  the  author  of  a  treatise  on  the 
Abacus^  the  system  of  arithmetitial  calculation  which  had 
inade  so  much  noise  since  it  was  brought  into  fashion  by 
Oerbert.  This  tract  is  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
Biblioth^ue  Royale  at  Paris.^i* 

Bale  is  the  only  authority  for  placing  as  contempory 
with  Gerland  a  monk  of  Malmsbury  named  Oliver,  Who, 
he  says,  was  so  profoundly  learned  in  mathematics  that 
his  contemporaries  regarded  him  as  a  magician.  Bale 
gives  as  the  titles  of  his  books,  Aitrologorum  dogmata^  lib. 
i.  De  planetarum  signU^  lib.  i.  De  Geomaniia,  lib.  i.  and 
says  that  he  flourished  in  1060.  There  are  at  present  no 
traces  of  such  works  having  ever  existed. 


ROBERT  BISHOP  OF  HEREFORD. 

Among  the  more  distinguished  of  king  William's  fb- 
reign  bishops  was  Robert  of  Hereford,  a  hatlve  of  Lor- 
raine, whence  he  is  sometimes  called  Robertus  Losinga. 
After  having  made  great  progress  in  natural  and  mathe- 
matical science,  he  is  said  to  have  taught  for  sortie  time 
in  the  schools  in  Flanders.  He  was  brought  to  England 
With  other  scholars  by  king  William  some  time  after  the 


*  Fnnds  da  St.  lector,  No.  533.  See  the  vtrj  intereating  RzpUoationi 
des  Trait^s  de  PAbacns,  by  M.  Chaales,  (read  befora  the  Acad^ie  det 
Sdencea  in  January  and  February  1843,)  p.  38. 


Died  10950     ROdSttt  tttSHOP  of  HERBPOftO.  19 

Conquest,  and  appears  to  have  settled  at  Wol*cestef, 
where  he  was  ordained  a  priest  by  bishop  Wtdstan,  with 
whom,  during  the  remainder  of  thAt  prelate's  life,  he  lived 
on  terms  of  the  warmest  friendship.    In  1079,  Robert  was 
chosen  to  fill  the  vacant  see  of  Hereford,  to  which  he  was 
consecrated  by  Lanfranc  on  the  29th  of  Decembei*.  During 
the  petty  wars  on  the  Welsh  border^  the  cathedral  of 
Hereford  had  been  reduced  almost  to  it  heap  of  ruins^  and 
one  of  Robert's  first  cares  was  to  rebuild  it  in  a  style  worthy 
to  contain  the  shrine  of  St  Ethelred.    He  took  for  his 
model  the  church  of  Aix-la-Chapelle,  which  had  been 
originally  built  by  Charlemagne.*    Wulstan  spent  much 
of  his  leisure  In  the  society  of  bishop  Robert,  and  it  is 
related,  as  a  proof  of  their  affectionate  regard  for  each  other, 
that,  when  Wulstan  lay  on  his  death-bed  at  the  beginning 
of  the  year  1095,  Robert,  who  Was  attending  the  court, 
dreamt  that  his  friend  came  to  tell  him  of  his  approaching 
end,  and  to  request  that  he  would  hasten  to  Worcester  to 
see  him  before  he  died,  or  at  least  to  give  the  directions 
for   his  funeral.    Robert   obeyed   the    call,   but,  when 
he  had  nearly  reached  the  end  of  his  journey,  he  again 
saw  Wulstan  in  a  dream,  who  told  him  that  he  was 
alr^dy  dead ;  he  added,  that  Robert  should  prepare  for 
his  own  death,  as  he  would  not  long  survive  him,  and  that, 
in  testimony  of  the  truth  of  this  prediction,  he  Would 
receive  a  gift  in  remembrance  of  their  friendship,  which  he 
would  immediately  recognise.    After  having  performed  the 
last  duties  to  his  friend,  as  Robert  was  mounting  his 
horse  to  depart,  the  prior  of  Worcester  came  to  oflfer  him 
Wulstan's  favourite  cap,  lined  with  lamb's  wool ;  he  recog- 
nised the  sign  which  Wulstan  had  promised  him^  went 

*  Qui  ibi  edcikiiMii  tereti  ttdificatit  lehematof  Aqaaniem  batiliotm  pro 
modo  imitatns  iiio.    W.  Malmtb.  da  Qtit»  Poatif*  p»  88S« 

0  2 


20  ROBERT  BISHOP  OF  HEREFORD,      [Died  1095. 

soon  afterwards  to  Hereford,  and  died  there  on  the  26th  of 
June  following.*  Bishop  Robert  was  one  of  the  prelates 
who  took  part  most  decidedly  with  the  king  against  arch- 
bishop Anselm,  in  the  council  of  1095,  a  short  time  before 
his  own  death. 

Robert  was  looked  upon  as  one  of  the  most  distin- 
guished men  of  science' of  the  latter  part  of  the  eleventh 
century ;  and  it  is  said  that  he  excelled  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  abacus^  of  the  lunar  computus,  and  of  the  courses 
of   the  celestial   bodies.t    The  work  to  which  he  owed 
most  of  his  reputation  was  an  abridgment  of  the  chro- 
nicle, or  rather  of  the  chronology,  of  Marianus  Scotus. 
Marianus  was  a  German  monk  who  had  devoted  him- 
self to  the  study  of  chronology,  and  had  first  observed  the 
discrepancies  between  the  calculations  of  Dionysius  Exi- 
guus  and  the  dates  of  the  sacred  writers ;  he  had  undertaken 
the  laborious  task  of  collating  and  correcting  the  works  of 
former  chronographers,  and  reducing  them  to  order.    As 
soon  as  this  work  was  published,  which  was  in  or  shortly 
after  the  year  1082,  bishop  Robert  obtained  a  copy^  and 
immediately  undertook  to  abridge  and  perfect  it.    We 
are  informed  by  William  of  Malmsbury,  that  he  executed 
his  task  with  so  much  skill  and  judgment,  that  the  abridg- 
ment was  worthy  to  supersede  the  too  extensive  and  diffuse 
original.^     In  fact,  there  appear  to  be  reasons  for  doubting 
if  the  chronicle  now  known  and  printed  as  that  of  Marianus 
Scotus  be  anything  more  than  Robertas  abridgment.  § 

*  W.  Malmsb.  de  Oest.  Pontif.  p.  386. 

f  OmDiam  liberalium  trdam  peritissimuB,  abacum  pnecipue,  et  lanarem 
compatam,  et  coelestium  astrorum  cursum  rimatus.  -  W.  Malmsb.  ib.  Simeon 
of  Dorham  Hist.  Eccl.  Dunelm.  ap.  Decern  Script,  col.  910,  gives  a  similar 
acooaat,  and  praisei  his  great  learning. 

X  Deniqoe  captns  Mariani  ingenio  quicquid  itle  largius  dizerat,  in  arctnm 
contr*ihens  defloravit,  adeo  fiplendide,  ut  magis  valere  videatur  defloratio 
qnam  infentis  ilUua  Tolominti  diffasio.    W.  Malmsb.  ib. 

$  See  WbHrton,  Angl.  Sac.  vol.  i.  pref.  p.  zzit  ;  Tanner,  p.  636 ;  and  the 


Died  1096.]        william  bishop  of  Durham.  21 

The  old  bibliographers  also  attribute  to  this  prelate^ 
besides  some  theological  works  (especially  several  com- 
mentaries on  portions  of  the  Holy  Scriptures),  a  work  on 
the  motions  of  the  stars^  another  on  the  Computus^  and 
a  collection  of  Mathematical  Tables.  These  titles  are 
probably  merely  founded  on  the  words  of  William  of 
Malmsbury.  The  writers  of  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de 
France  seem  to  think  him  the  author  of  a  treatise  on  the 
Computus,  which  has  been  attributed  to  Marianus  Scotus. 


WILLIAM  BISHOP  OP  DURHAM, 

This  prelate  appears  to  have  been  a  native  of  Bayeux^ 
to  the  church  of  which  he  was  attached,  until  he  left 
it  to  become  a  monk  of  St.  Calais  au  Maine  (Sancti 
Karilefi),  whence  he  became  commonly  known  by  the 
name  of  Gulielmus  de  Sancto  Karilefo.  After  being  pro- 
moted to  the  rank  of  prior  in  this  monastery,  he  was 
elected  to  be  abbot  of  that  of  St.  Vincent  du  Mans>* 
and  was  at  last^  in  1080^  brought  to  England  to  succeed 
Walcher  as  bishop  of  Durham.  He  was  consecrated  on 
the  third  of  January,  1081.  In  1089  he  incurred  the 
displeasure  of  king  William  Rufus,  for  the  part  he  had 
taken  in  the  intrigues  of  bishop  Odo^  and  was  obliged  to 

Hht.  Lit.  de  France,  vol.  Till.  p.  417*  A  copy  bearing  thd  name  of  Robert 
as  the  compiler  is  preserved  in  tbe  Bodleian  Library,  MS.  Bodl.  594 ;  the 
twentieth  year  of  WiUiam  the  Conqaerori  i.  e.  1086,  is  there  spoken  of  as 
being  the  present  year,  or  that  in  ^hlch  it  was  written. 

*  Ex  olero  Bajocensis  ecclesise  in  monasterio  Sancti  Karilephi  monachicd 
habitn  snscepto,  primo  prior  clanstri,  postmodnm  abbas  est  eifectus  in 
monasterio  Sancti  Vincentii.  Simeon.  Dan.  Hist.  Dunelm.  eccl.  p.  343. 
W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Pontif.  p.  ^7,  calls  him  erroneously  Abbas  Sancti 
Karilephi. 


99  Wllilif AM  BI8H0?  OF  DURHAM.      [J)Mt  1096. 

fl;  to  Normandy»  where  he  remained  in  exile  till  Septem- 
ber, 1091.  On  bis  return  be  recovered  entirely  the  king's 
fayour,  and  was  the  chief  of  the  bishops  who  supported 
^lim  against  Anselm»  in  the  assembly  of  Rockingham,  in 
1095.  Soon  after  this  he  again  incurred  the  king's  dis- 
pleaciure;  but  he  appears  tp  have  been  more  sincerely 
^ponciled  with  iVi^selm,  who  by  his  express  desire 
attended  on  his  death-bed.  Bishop  William  died  at 
G^oucesteri  on  the  second  of  January  1096,  and  was 
buried  at  Durham. 

William  of  Malmsbury  has  preserved  a  story  which 
appears  to  have  been  current  among  Anselm's  partizans, 
who  said  that  the  bishop  of  Durham  had  aspired  to 
the  see  of  Canterbury,  and  that  he  joined  the  king 
against  Anselm  in  the  hope  that  he  would  be  deposed, 
and  that  the  king  would  then  have  appointed  him  to 
be  his  successor.*  The  old  writers  state,  however,  that 
he  was  generally  esteemed  and  beloved.  He  laboured 
much  for  the  improvement  of  his  church  and  diocese. 
Simeon  of  Durham  speaks  of  a  collection  of  his  let- 
ters written  to  the  monks  of  Durham  while  in  exile, 
which  was  extant  in  his  time,  but  they  appear  now 
to  be  lost.  The  history  of  his  exile,  preserved  in  a 
manuscript  at  Durham,  which  has  by  some  been  attributed 
to  him,  was  written  apparently  by  one  of  his  companions. 
It  is  printed  in  the  appendix  to  Bedford's  edition  of 
Simeon  of  Durham. 

"^  W.  MaUnib.  4«  Gest.  Pwtif.  p.  S77. 


DM  1Q98.]  8« 


OSMUND  BISHOP  OF  SALISBURY, 

Osmund  waa  by  birth  a  Norman,  a  kinsman  of  Wil- 
liam the  Conqueror,  and  was  in  his  own  pountry  cou^t 
of  Sees,  in  England  e^rl  of  Dorset  He  was  «Iso 
chancellor  of  England.  ^^  In  }077  be  was  chosen  to 
succeed  Hereman  as  bishop  of  Salisbury^  and  he  coi|^- 
pleted  the  cathedral  which  Hereman  had  beguPt  As  a 
bishop,  Osmund  appears  to  hav^  retired  much  from  the 
worlds  and  to  have  lived  chiefly  in  the  society  of  the 
learned  canopy  whom  he  had  drawn  together  by  his 
liberality.  He  collected  for  his  church  a  noble  library ; 
and  it  is  stated,  as  a  proof  of  his  humility,  thitt  he  not 
only  copied  books  himself,  but  th^t  he  even  bound  them 
with  his  own  hands.f  He  died  on  the  third  or  fourth  qf 
December,  1099 ;  authorities  differ  ^h  to  the  day.  Osmund 
is  said  to  have  written  a  life  of  Aldhelm,  which  is  not 
now  extant.  He  also  compiled  a  ritual  for  the  use  of  his 
church,  of  which  Bale  has  evidently  made  two  titles  of 
different  works,  Canone^  Offidorum  ^cclesHe^  and  Consue- 
tudindriuni  EcclesuB.  This  became  afterwards  the  cele 
brated  liturgy  ad  uwm  Sarum^  which  was  followed  by  % 
large  portion  pf  the  EngUsh  plergy4 

*  8m  Sir  R.  C.  Hoare't  HUtorj  of  Wiltshire,  City  of  Balisbury,  pp.  8,  9. 

t  librorum  oopia  conquisi^,  cum  opUoopuf  ipio  pec  icribert  ace  i«riptoi 
Ugare  fiutidiret.    W.  Malmsb.  de  6e|t.  Pontif.  p.  ^50, 

X  Higden,  Polychron.  lib.  vii.  fol.  201,  r°.  (MS.  Arand.  No.  86.)  Hie 
quoqiia  oompotoit  ordinalem  eeeleaiattiei  ofidi  qaem  ConsnetudiiiAridiki 
▼oeanti  qao  fere  nunc  tota  ADglia,  Wallia  utitur  et  Hibernla.  DictaWt 
etiwa  Vitam  Siuicti  Aldelmi.  Tbe  Ordinale  of  bisbpp  Osmwi4  U  itill 
preKnred  in  the  library  of  Salisbury  Cathedral.  See  WUtshirfi,  City  of 
Saliabory,  p.  71^* 


24  [Died  1 100. 


THOMAS  ARCHBISHOP  OF  YORK. 

Thomas  of  York  was  considered  one  of  the  most 
learned  prelates  of  the  end  of  the  eleventh  century.  He 
was  the  brother  of  Samson  bishop  of  Worcester,  and 
son  of  a  married  priest  of  Bayeux  in  Normandy.  Under 
the  patronage  and  by  the  encouragement  of  Odo  bishop 
of  Bayeux,  Thomas  studied  at  Bee  as  well  as  at  some  of 
the  German  schools,  and  he  is  said  even  to  have  visited 
Spain  in  order  to  make  himself  acquainted  with  the  learn- 
ing of  the  Arabs.^  This  is  somewhat  doubtful.  We 
know  with  more  certainty  that  in  the  sequel  Odo  made 
him  canon  and  treasurer  of  the  church  of  Bayeux,  and 
tliat  he  accompanied  that  prelate  to  England.  In  1070 
William  the  Conqueror  made  him  archbishop  of  York, 
and  he  immediately  became  involved  in  the  controversy 
with  Lanfranc  in  defence  of  the  independence  of  his  see. 
When  he  accompanied  Lanfranc  to  Rome,  the  same  year, 
he  was  accused  of  being  the  son  of  a  priest,  and  was  only 
allowed  to  retain  his  see  by  Lanfranc's  intercession.  At 
York  he  found  the  ruins  of  a  cathedral,  with  only  three 
almost  houseless  canons;  but  he  soon  collected  around 
him  a  body  of  learned  clergy,  and  he  rebuilt  the  cathedral 
on  a  magnificent  scale.  He  was  accused  by  his  succes- 
sors of  having  wasted  the  patrimony  of  his  church  on 
these  objects.t  In  1089,  after  Lanfranc^s  death,  arch- 
bishop Thomas  consecrated  Anselm  as  his  successor;  and 
in  August  of  1 100  he  officiated  at  the  coronation  of  Henry  I, 

•  Stubbs,  de  Pont.  Eborac.  col.  1705,  who  says,  '*  pectus  stium  Hispa- 
nicarom  fecit  armariam  scientiaram.''  I  doubt  if  this  refers  to  the  learning 
of  the  Arabs.  Stubba  and  William  of  Malmsbury  are  the  chief  authorities 
for  the  life  of  archbishop  Thomas. 

t  Wi  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Pontif.  p.  S73. 


Died  1100.]    thomas  archbishop  of  york.  25 

Anselm  being  then  in  exile.     He  died  on  the  18th  of 
November  following. 

We  have  little  left  to  attest  the  literary  abilities  of 
Thomas  of  York.  A  letter  from  him  to  the  archbishop 
of  Canterbury  is  printed  among  the  letters  of  Lanfranc ; 
and  another^  written  in  1084,  in  which  he  bears  witness 
to  his  miraculous  cure  at  the  shrine  of  St.  Cuthbert,  is 
preserved  in  the  annals  of  Roger  de  Hoveden.  The  latter 
is  a  remarkable  proof  of  credulity  in  a  man  whom  William 
of  Malmsbury  compares  with  the  ancient  philosophers.^ 
He  was  particularly  attached  to  church  music,  and  spent 
much  of  his  time  in  composing  hymns  and  chants.  It 
has  been  supposed  that  some  of  these  still  exist  in  the 
old  liturgies.  It  is  further  remarked  of  him  that,  when- 
ever he  heard  any  new  and  popular  secular  song  or  ballad 
sung  by  the  minstrels,  he  immediately  composed  sacred 
parodies  on  the  words  to  be  sung  to  the  same  tune.f  The 
only  specimen  now  extant  of  his  poetical  talents  is  the 
following  epitaph  on  the  death  of  William  the  Conqueror, 
preserved  by  Ordericus  Vitalis.J 

dui  rezit  rigidos  Normannosy  atque  Biitannos 

Audacter  vicit,  fortiter  obtinuit, 
£t  Cenomannenses  Tirtute  coercuit  enses, 

Imperiique  sui  legibus  applicuit, 
Rex  magnus  parya  jacet  hie  Gnillelmus  in  urna, 

Sufficit  et  magno  parra  domus  domino. 
Ter  septem  gradibus  ae  volverat  atque  daobns 

Virginia  in  gremiis  PhoebuSi  et  hie  obiit. 

*  Philosophns  antiqnis  scientia  comparandus.  W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest. 
Pontif.  p.  273. 

f  Nee  cantu  nee  Toee  minor,  multa  eccleaiastiea  eomposuit  carmina :  si 
qnis  in  audita  ejus  arte  joculatoria  aliquid  yocale  sonaret,  statim  iUud  in 
diyinas  landes  effigiabat.    W.  Malmsb.  lb.    Conf.  Stobbs,  eol.  1709. 

X  Lib.  Tils.  p.  663,  (ed  Duchesne.) 


26  [Died  abwt  nW. 


OSBEBN  OF  CANTERBURY. 

Ovtbt  life  ofOsbemveiy  little  it  known  fiuiher  than  thit, 
M  be  inform!  us  himself^  he  wm  born  et  Canterbury^  and 
that  he  received  his  education  in  the  monastery  of  that  city. 
He  was  ordained  by  Lanfranc,  and  was  appointed  succes- 
sively precentor  and  superior  of  his  house.  It  appears 
from  his  writings  that  he  was  present  when  the  cathedral  of 
Canterbury  was  burnt  in  1070.  It  is  probable  that  he  did 
not  dio  before  the  end  of  the  eleventh^  or  the  beginning 
of  the  twelfth  century )  but  the  year  is  unknown.  We 
learn,  however»  from  an  old  obituary  of  Canterbury^  that 
the  day  of  his  death  was  the  28tb  of  November.  * 

Osbem  appears  to  have  enjoyed  the  esteem  of  his  con» 
temporaries  for  bis  learning  and  talents^  He  is  said  to 
have  been  very  skilful  in  music.f  We  learn,  however^ 
from  the  Introduction  to  his  Life  of  Dunstan»  that  his 
favourite  occupation  was  translating  the  lives  of  the 
English  saints  from  Anglo-Saxon  into  Latin»  in  which  he 
was  encouraged  by  the  exhortations  of  his  fellow-monks. 
After  the  elevation  of  La^franc  to  the  see  of  Canterbury, 
some  dispute  had  arisen  relating  to  the  sanctity  of  arch- 
bishop Alfege  (who  had  been  murdered  by  the  Danish  in- 
vaders) ;  it  ended  in  bis  being  acknowledged  by  the 
Normans  as  a  saint  and  martyr,  and  Lanflranc  employed 
Osbem  first  to  write  a  hymn  or  anthem  to  his  memory, 
and  afterwards  to  gather  together  the  materials  for  his 

*  TImm  ftuits  an  coUtctod  together  by  Whtrtoii,  Anglia  8«or»,  toI.  ii.  pnsf . 
p.  vili. 

f  Fluni  «t  noa  c(mlMiiiiend«  de  nxo  [Danttano]  Tokntem  dieere  rerocat 
CantnariK  cantor  OsbemuB»  qui  ejus  ntam  Romana  alegantia  oompoauit» 
nuUi  nostro  tempore  stylo  secimdua,  musica  oerte  omniom  sine  controyenia 
primni.  W.  Malmsbt  de  Gest.  Reg.  lib.  ii.  p.  56.  Again,  speaking  of 
Gotcdin,  be  says  of  him,  ''  MusicK  porro  palmam  post  Osbernnm  adeptns.'* 
De  G«8t.  Rag.  lib.  iT.  p»  130. 


about  1100.]   08BERN   OF   CANTBBBURT.  2j 

li&i  which  Utter  was  perhaps  not  finished  until  after  the 
pnmate's  death.  He  gives  the  following  aooount  of  the 
mode  in  which  he  performed  this  undertaking;  it  will 
serve  as  a  specimen  of  his  style,  which  was  so  m^cb 
praised  by  William  of  Malmsbury. 

Sane  Teritatem  reram  ita  polUpeor ;  ut  nulla  me»  fublato  ai  quis  inftierit 
splendora  verbonim,  dlctnrum  profitear,  qtut  non  ant  ab  Ub  qui  videnmt,  ant 
a  Tidentibiu  andienint,  acoeperim,  et  eis  ftde  timnl  et  aootoritate  plarimom 
praMtantibua.  Qaoram  quidem  Tocabnla  icdrco  sponte  reAigio;  qnoniam 
dicendi  primitias  barbarida  appdlationibua  decolorare  nolo.  Aliqua  tamen 
de  his  rebuB  non  Incommode  scripta  inrenl ;  qnorum  sententiaa  exinde  aa- 
ramptaa  prweenti  scriptone  congnio  ordine  inaerenda  jndicayi.  Illiua  itaqne 
fireti  anzilioy  cigiiB  gratnita  bonitate  lamut  quicquid  bene  snmiia»  cnjus  lar- 
giflna  miieratione  aapimns  quicqnid  bene  sapimua,  tangamna  psalterium, 
tangamna  et  cytharam.  In  altero  sempiternam  martyris  gloriam  ezoltando 
pnedioemns ;  in  altero  corporalea  ejus  paanonea  imitando  Teneremur.  Ac 
qnemadmoduni  pneoipiente  inTictis9uno  totiua  La^nitatU  megiatro  Lianfipvico 
arcMepiacopOy  mnsica  yirum  modulatione  dudum  eztulimua ;  lic  oogentibus 
iia  qnas  disdmna  rationnm  cauais,  oratoria  eundem  narratione  eztollamna. 

We  have  also  a  Life  of  St.  Dunstan^  and  a  collection  of 
his  posthumous  miracles^  by  this  writer;  and  lives  of 
Bregwin  and  Odo^  archbishops  of  Canterbury^  which  have 
been  attributed  to  him,  though  others  have  ascribed  the 
first  to  John  of  Tynemouth,  and  the  latter  to  Eadmer. 
The  question  of  their  authorship  appears  to  be  very 
doubtful.  In  a  manuscript  in  Corpus  Christi  college^ 
Cambridge  (No.  161)  a  Life  and  Miracles  of  king  Ed- 
ward the  Confessor  are  ascribed  to  Osbem.  Bale  and 
Pits  make  him  the  author  of  other  works,  but,  as  the  only 
references  they  giv^e  appear  to  be  quite  erroneous,  the 
titles  hardly  deserve  to  be  repeated.  His  treatise  on 
music^  if  he  wrote  one,  is  lost.  This  Osbem  is  supposed 
to  be  the  author  of  the  second  and  fifth  letters  of  the  third 
book  of  Anselm's  Epistles. 

Bdiiunu. 

Acta  Sanctorum  Aprllia.  Tomna  II.  AntrerpiM,  1675.  Ibl.  pp.  SSI— 64^« 
Vita  Sancti  Elphegi,  anctore  Osbemo  eoeleaisB  Cantoarieniia  monaeho. 
Ex  MS.  Codice  S.  Marl»  Bonlfontis. 

Acta  Sanctomm  Ordinis  S.  Benedict!.    Sieculnm  V.    Luteoiie  PuiaionuB, 


28  INGULF.  [Died  in  1109. 

1685.  fol.  pp.  287—396,  Vita  S.  OdoDis.  pp.  654—688,  Yito  Sancti 
Danstani  archiepiscopi  Cantuariensis.  Auctore  Osbemo  Cantuariensi 
monacho  ssculo  XI.  pp.  689 — 701,  Incipit  Liber  Miracalorum  ejos- 
dem.     Auctore  eodem  Osberno  monacho. 

Acta  Sanctorum  Mail.  Tomus  IV.  Antverpise,  1685.  fol.  pp.  359 — 384. 
Alia  vita  [S.  Dunstani]  auctore  Osbemo  prtecentore  Cantuariensi.  Ex 
MS.  AntYcrpiensi  et  Bonifontis. 

Anglia  Sacra  (edited  by  H.  Wharton.)  Pars  secunda.  Lond.  1691.  fol. 
pp.  75 — 77.  Vita  S.  Bregwini,  archiepiscopi  Cantuariensis,  authore 
(ut  yidetur)  Osberno.  pp.  78 — 87,  Vita  Odonis,  archiepiscopi  Cantua- 
riensis, auctore  (ut  videtur)  Osbemo.  pp.  88—131,  Vita  S.  Dunstani, 
archiepiscopi  Cantuariensi*,  authore  Osbemo  monacho  et  prsecentore 
Ecclesise  Christ!  Cantuariensis.  pp.  127 — 147,  Vita  S.  Elphegi  archie- 
piscopi Cantuariensis,  authore  Osbemo. 


INGULF. 

Ingulf  was  by  birth  an  Englishman^  and,  having  ob- 
tained the  favour  of  William  the  Conqueror,  then  duke  of 
Normandy,  was  made  his  scribe  or  secretary.  He  after- 
wards visited  Jerusalem,  became  a  monk  and  subse- 
quently prior  of  Fontinelle  under  abbot  Gerbert,  and 
was  recalled  to  his  native  country  by  king  William,  to 
succeed  Ulfketel  as  abbot  of  Croyland,  who  had  been 
deprived  of  his  office  by  the  Normans  in  1075.  After 
having  presided  over  this  ancient  and  celebrated  monastic 
establishment  during  nearly  thirty-five  years  in  a  period 
of  trouble  and  difficulty,  he  died  on  the  17th  of  December^ 
1 109.* 

These  facts  we  gather  from  Ordericus  Vitalis,  who  was 
well  acquainted  with  the  affairs  of  Croyland,  where  he  ap- 
pears to  have  been  residing  about  the  year  1112,  three 
years  after  Ingulfs  death.f  In  the  History  of  Croyland 
published  under  Ingulfs  name,  he  is  made  to  give  a  more 
detailed  account  of  his  own  history.     He  says  that  his 

*  Orderic.  Vital.  Hist.  Eccles.  lib.  iv.  p.  287  (ed.  Le  PreTOst.)  The  du* 
ration  of  his  abbacy,  as  giyen  in  Le  PrcYOSt's  text,  xxy.  must  be  an  error 
for  zzxv.  According  to  Ordericus  the  date  of  bis  death  was  the  16  kal«  Pec. 
i.  e.  NoTemb.  16. 

t  Orderic«0,  tb*  p.  389* 


Died  1109.]  ingulf.  2B 

parents  were  citizens  of  London^  who  sent  him  when  a 
child  to  the  school  at  Westminster^  from  whence  he  was 
removed  to  the  university  of  Oxford ;  ^^  and,  when  I  had 
made  greater  proficiency  in  Aristotle  than  many  of  those 
of  my  own  age,  I  also  studied  profoundly  the  first  and 
second  books  of  the  rhetoric  of  Tully/'  As  he  grew  up, 
he  continues,  he  became  ashamed  of  the  mean  estate  of  his 
parents,  and  left  tJietn^  in  order  to  frequent  the  court, 
where  his  taste  for  pomp  and  finery  increased  every 
day.  It  was  at  this  time  (i.  e.  1051)  that  WiUiam  duke  of 
Normandy  visited  the  English  court,  and  he  took  Ingulf 
into  his  family  in  the  quaUty  of  a  scribe.  Accompanying 
his  new  master,  on  his  return  to  Normandy,  he  tells  us 
that  he  rose  so  high  in  the  favour  of  duke  William  that 
he  ruled  the  whole  court  at  his  will,  raising  or  humiliating 
whom  he  would,  which  excited  the  envy  and  jealousy  of  the 
other  courtiers.  In  1064,  be  tells  us,  he  joined  the  expe- 
dition to  Jerusalem,  consisting  of  seven  thousand  pilgrims. 
At  Constantinople  they  performed  their  reverence  io  the 
emperor  Aleans,  and,  after  being  attacked  and  plundered  in 
their  way  through  Lycia,  arrived  at  Jerusalem,  where  they 
were  received  by  the  patriarch  Sophronius.  On  his  return 
to  Normandy  Ingulph  became  a  monk  at  Fontinelle.* 

Doubts  have  long  been  entertained  of  the  authenticity 
of  the  history  published  under  the  name  of  Ingulf.f 
Nearly  all  the  charters  inserted  in  his  work  are  forgeries, 
which  must  have  been  fabricated  either  in  IngulPs  time 
or  subsequently ;  and,  even  in  the  former  case,  he  must 
have  been  aware  of  their  character,  and  would  hardly  have 
published  them  ostentatiously.  His  narrative,  the  ground- 
work of  which  appears  to  have  been  the  common  histo- 
rians of  those  times,  is  full  of  errors  and  anachronisms, 

•  Ingulfi  Hist.  p.  73,  ed.  Gale. 

t  The  donbtfal  character  of  this  History  was  first  pointed  out  by  Sir 
Francis  Pal^ave.  in  an  article  in  the  Quarterly  Review. 


So  IN6ULF.  [DUd  1109. 

even  in  the  events  of  the  age  in  which  he  lived.*  The 
writer  appears  also  to  have  used  books^  such  as  the  Life 
of  Hereward,  compiled  subsequently  to  the  time  at  which 
Ingulf  flourished.  There  are  many  other  circumstances 
connected  with  the  book  which  concur  to  strengthen 
our  suspicions.  Even  the  account  of  the  author  is  pet- 
haps  a  mere  amplification  of  that  given  by  OMericus 
Vitalis.  It  appears  too  vain-glorious  to  have  been 
written  by  himself.  The  account  of  Ingulf^s  education 
is  evidently  fabulous ;  his  studying  Aristotle  at  Oxford 
indicates  the  thirteenth  or  fourteenth^  mther  than  the 
eleventh  century;  and  an  anecdote  of  his  (childhood 
which  he  is  made  to  relate  in  another  place  seems  to  con- 
tradict the  description  he  gives  above  of  his  father^s  station , 
when  he  states  that  while  at  school  he  used  to  visit  his 
father,  who  reHded  at  court,  and  there  he  became  known  to 
the  queen^  JBdith^  who  argued  questions  with  him  in  logicf 
He  speaks  of  visiting  the  emperor  Aleids  at  Constanti- 
nople in  1064  (which  is  known  from  other  sources  to  have 
been  the  date  of  the  pilgrimage  that  Ingulf  is  stated 
to  have  accompanied) ;  yet  Alexis  Comnenus  did  not 
ascend  the  throne  of  Constantinople  till  1081.  It  is  quite 
impossible  that  Ingulf  himself  could  have  faUen  into  such 
an  error  as  this,  who  in  the  same  place  speaks  of  William 
the  Conquerbr  as  reigning  when  he  wrote,  so  that  it  m&y 
be  doubted  if  Ingulf  could  at  that  time  have  known  that 
Alexis  had  been  crowned  emperor ;  it  is  more  probably  the 
fault  of  a  compiler,  who  confounded  the  expedition  alluded 

*  dd*  the  ac6oiiiit  giY^tt  by  Lappenberg,  Getehichte  t6A  EnfltAd»  V61*  i. 

pp.  bdii.  liiT. 

t  Vidi  ego  illam  multotieni,  cum  patrem  meum  in  regit  curia  morantem 
adknc  puer  iiiTiserein,  et  saepios  mihi  de  scholia  Tenienti  de  Uteris  ac  trArtu 
meo  apponebat,  cam  oceorrerem,  et  libentisaime  de  grammatica  soUdate  ad 
logicam  leTitatem,  qua  callebat,  decUnans,  cam  argmnentoniiii  lubtOi  liga- 
mine  me  oondnaiiMt,  temper  tribns  aut  quatuor  nommlt  per  andllnlam  niuie- 
ratii  ad  regivia  penu  traasmiiit,  et  rftfectQia  dimliit.    Ingnlfl  Hltior.  p.  6f . 


PMWOd.]  iNOt^Ll^.  81 

to  with  thftt  of  Petet  the  Bermit.  A  difficulty  in  ascer- 
taining the  date  at  which  this  work  was  compiled  arises 
from  the  circumstance  that  no  manuscript  of  any  an^ 
tiquity  is  now  known  to  exist  ^^  but  it  has  been  supposed 
not  to  be  older  than  the  fourteenth  century.  It  is  not 
impossible  thftt  the  compiler  has  interwoven  into  his 
text  some  fragments  written  by  Ingulf ;  in  which  case  we 
might  probably  attribute  to  him  the  desctiption  of  the 
fire  in  lOBl.  But  it  is  singular  that  neither  OrderieUb 
VitaUs,  (who  had  been  at  Croyland,  and  was  dUigent  in 
searching  for  historical  doouments^)  nor  William  Of 
Croyknd^  who  wrote  the  Uffe  of  eari  Waltheof,  and  who 
mentions  on  three  occasions  the  removal  of  the  body  of  the 
e&rl  by  Ingulf  t  (which  is  also  described  in  the  history  Attri- 
buted to  Ingulf  :^)j  should  have  been  aware  that  Ingulf  was 
the  author  of  a  history  of  Croylandi  if  he  ever  had  written 
such  a  book.  It  is  stated  in  the  history  of  Croyland  that  itk 
reputed  author.  Ingulf^  also  wrote  a  life  of  St.  Guthlac ;  but 
no  such  work  is  known  to  exists  nor  is  it  mentioned  else<- 
where.  If  the  history  be  a  forgery^  its  object  probably  wait 
to  support  the  claims  of  the  abbots  of  Croyland  in  their 
law«suits  with  the  monks  of  Spalding. 

The  account  of  the  life  of  Ingulf  previous  to  his  settle- 
ment in  the  abbey  of  Fontinelle  deserves  to  be  quoted  as 
a  specimen  of  the  Pseudo-Ingulf  s  Latinity. 

Ego  enim  Ingulf  us  hamilis  magUter  S«  Guthlad  monasteriiqiie  ivi  Croi* 
landdniif)  natiu  in  Anglia,  eta  porentibas  Anglicu»  qnippe  orbiBpuloheniflMB 
LondoniaraiBy  pro  Uteris  addisoendis  in  teneriori  atate  constitiitas»  primiwi 
WeatmonaateriOf  poitmodam  Ozonienai  studio  traditns  eram.  Cvmqiie  in 
Aristotile  arripiendo  supra  multos  coRtaneos  meos  profedssem,  etiam  lUie* 


^rtbi** 


*  There  Is  S  traiiserit»t  of  the  latter  part  of  the  sixteenth  oeatuiy  among 
the  Anudel  MSB.  in  the  British  Mnienm,  No.  178,  which  was  OYideatl/  the 
eop3r  from  which  fiavile  printed  his  edition.  The  MS.  used  hj  Gale  Is  seid 
tS  eiltt  in  the  Ubrary  at  HoUdiam. 

t  win.  Monac.  Croiland*  Vita  et  Pasaio  Walderi  eomitis,  ap.  Chroniqaes 
Anglo-Normandes,  vol.  ii.  pp.  101,  118,  I99t 

X  Ingulfl  Hist  p.  lOS. 


32  INGULF,  [Died  1 109. 

toricam  TuUii  primam  et  Becundam  talo  tenus  indaebam.  Factas  ergo  ado- 
lescentior,  fastidiens  parentum  meorum  exiguitatem,  patemos  lares  relinquere, 
et  palatia  regam  aut  principum  affectans,  mollibus  Testiri  pomposisque  la- 
ciniis  amiciri  indies  ardentias  appetebam.  Et  ecce  inclytas  nanc  rex  noster 
Anglise,  tunc  adhuc  comes  Normanniae  WilheUnusi  ad  colloquium  tone  regis 
Anglife  Edwardi,  cognati  sui,  cum  grandi  mioistrantium  comitatu  Londonias 
adventabat.  Quibns  citius  insertus,  ingerens  me  ubique  ad  omnia  emer- 
gentia  negotia  peragendai  cum  prospere  plurima  perfecissemf  in  brevi  agnitos 
illustrissimo  comiti  et  astrictissime  adamatus,  cum  ipso  Normanniam  ena- 
Tigabam.  Factus  ibidem  scriba  ejus,  pro  libito  totam  comitis  curiam  ad 
nonnullorum  invidiam  regebam,  quosque  Toloi  hnmiliabam,  et  quos  volni 
exaltabam.  Cumque  juvenili  calore  impulsus  in  tarn  celso  statu  supra  meos 
natales  consistere  teederem,  quin  semper  ad  altiora  conscendere  instabUi 
ammo  ac  nimium  prurienti  affectu  ad  erubescentiam  ambitiosus  ayidissime 
desiderarem,  nuntiatur  per  uniyersam  Normanniam  plurimos  archiepiscopos 
imperii  cum  nonnullis  allis  terrse  piincipibus  Telle  pro  merito  animarum 
suarum  more  peregrinorum  com  debita  devotione  Hierosolymam  profidsci. 
De  familia  ergo  comitis  domini  nostri  plnrimi  tam  milites  quam  clericif 
quorum  primus  et  pnecipuus  ego  eram,  cum  licentia  et  domini  nostri  comitiB 
benevolentia  in  dictum  iter  nos  omnes  accinximus ;  et  Aiamanniam  petentes, 
equites  trigiota  numero  et  amplius,  domino  Magunfclno  conjuncti  sumus. 
Parati  namque  omnes  ad  viam  et  cum  dominis  episcopis  oonnumerati  septem 
millia,  pertranseuntes  prospere  multa  terrarum  spatia,  tandem  Constantino- 
polim  perrenimus,  ubi  Alexim  imperatorem  ejus  adorantes,  Agiosophiam 
Tidimusi  et  infinica  sanctuaria  osculati  sumus.  Divertentes  inde  per  Lyciam, 
in  manus  Arabicomm  latronum  incidimus,  evisceratique  de  infinitis  pecuniis» 
cum  mortibus  multorum,  et  maximo  yitse  nostrse  periculo  tIx  evadente8> 
tandem  desideratissimam  civitatem  Hierosolymam  Iseto  introitu  tenebamus. 
Ab  ipso  tunc  patriarcho,  Sophronio  nomine,  viro  veneranda  canitie  hones- 
tissimo  ac  sanctissimo,  grandi  cymbalornm  tonitru  et  luminarium  immenso 
fulgore  suscepti,  ad  divinissimam  ecclesiam  sanctissimi  sepulchri  tam  Syrorum 
quam  Latinorum  solenni  processione  deducti  sumus.  Ibi  quot  preces  ino- 
rayimus,  quot  lachrymas  inflevimus,  quot  suspiria  inspiravimusi  solus  ejus 
inhabitator  novit  Dominus  noster  Jesus  Christus.  Ab  ipso  itaque  glorio- 
sissimo  sepulchro  Christi  ad  alia  sanctuaria  civitatis  invisenda  circumducti, 
infinitam  summam  sanctarum  ecclesiarum  et  oratorium,  quse  Achim  soldanus 
dudum  destruxerat,  oculis  lachrymosis  vidimus ;  et  omnibus  minis  sanc- 
tissims  civitatis  tam  extra  quam  intra  numerosis  lacbrymis  intimo  affectu 
compassi,  ad  quorundam  restaurationem  datis  non  paucis  pecuniis,  exire  in 
patriam  et  sacratissimo  Jordane  intingi  universaque  Christi  vestigia  osculari 
desiderantissima  devotione  suspirabamus.  Sed  Arabum  latrunculi,  qui  omnem 
viam  observabant,  longios  a  civitate  evagari  sua  rabiosa  multitudine  innu- 
mera  non  sinebant.  Vere  igitur  accidente,  stolus  navium  Januensium  in 
porta  Joppensi  applicuit,  in  quibus  cum  sua  mercimonia  Christiani  mercatores 
per  civitatis  maritimas  commutassenti  et  sancta  loca  similiter  adorassent. 
Ascendeotes  omnes»  mari  nos  commisimus,  et  jactati  fluctibus  et  procellis  in- 
numeris  tandem  Brundusium  appulimus. 


Died  1 107«]       GODFREY  OP  WXNCHfiSTEB.  33 

The  history  of  Ingalf  embraces  the  whole  period  from 
the  first  fomidation  of  Croyland  to  the  year  of  Ingulfs 
death,  after  which  we  have  an  equally  spurious  continu- 
ation,  attributed  to  the  celebrated  Peter  of  Blois.  An 
edition  was  first  printed  by  Sir  Henry  Savile  from  a  ma- 
nuscript which  was  incomplete  at  the  end,  and  a  complete 
edition  was  wanting  till  that  of  Fell  appeared  in  the  third 
volume  of  Calebs  Scriptores.  It  is  not  known  with  cer- 
tainty what  became  of  the  manuscript  from  which  this 
edition  was  printed. 

SditUm». 

• 

Reniin  Anglicaram  Scriptores  post  Bedam  procipui»  ex  Tetiutiflsimis  codi- 

cibuB  mamucriptifl  nunc  primvin  in  lucem  editi  (by  Sir  Henry  Sayile). 

Londinifl,  1596,  foL    Reprinted,  Francofurti,  1601.  fol.  pp.  850—916. 

Ingulphi  Historia. 
Kenim  Anglioamm  Scriptonixn  Tetemm.  [Gale]  Tom.  I*    Quonun  Ingiilfus 

nunc  primnm  integer,  c«teri  nunc  primnm  prodetint.  fol*   Oxonic, 

1684.    pp.  1—107.    Historia  Ingulfi. 


GODFREY  OF  WINCHESTER. 

Godfrey,  prior  of  St.  Swithin's  at  Winchester,  was 
one  of  the  most  accomplished  of  the  Norman  writers  who 
settled  in  England  after  the  conquest.  He  is  said  to  have 
been  a  native  of  Cambrai,  but  npthing  further  is  known 
of  his  personal  history,  until  he  succeeded  Simon  as  prior 
of  Winchester  in  the  year  1082.*  In  the  twenty-five 
years  during  which  Godfrey  held  this  office  he  was  re- 
markable for  his  attachment  to  literature,  for  the  holiness 
of  his  life,  and  for  the  unremitting  attention  he  gave  to 
the  interests  of  his  house,  which  was  benefited  as  much 
by  the  example  of  his  virtues  as  by  the  prudence  with 

*  Amiales  £ccl.  Winton.  up.  WltartoDi  Angl.  Sacr.  vol.  i.  p.  S94. 
VOL.  II*  P 


34  QODFRBT  OF  VINCHSSTBB.        [Died  1107« 

which  he  administered  its  worldly  concerns^  and  the  dona- 
tions which  he  conferred  upon  it.*  He  died  in  1107«t 
It  is  remarked  that  the  steeple  of  his  church  fell  on  the 
day  of  his  decease. 

Godfrey  of  Winchester  was  the  first  and  best  of  the 
Anglo-Norman  writers  of  Latin  verse;  in  such  of  his 
works  as  are  now  extant^  he  rises  more  successfully  than 
any  other  poet  of  his  own  or  the  succeeding  age  above 
the  barbarisms  of  medieval  style,  and  in  some  of  his 
epigrams  he  approaches  nearly  to  the  pmity  of  Martial, 
who  was  his  model.  William  of  Mahnsbury,  in  addition 
to  other  writings  of  which  *he  has  not  preserved  the  titles, 
mentions  his  Epistles^  composed  ^^in  that  familiar  and 
sweet  style,''  his  epigrams,  and  his  verses  '^  in  praise  of 
the  primates  of  England.^'^  The  last  two  of  these  works 
are  all  which  are  now  known  to  exist,  and  are  found  in  a 
manuscript  in  the  Cottonian  library,  and  in  two  manu- 
scripts at  Oxford.§  Camden  first  drew  attention  to  the 
merits  of  Godfrey's  epigrams,  and  printed  some  of  them 
in  his  ^*  Remaines."    They  are  arranged  in  several  series, 

*  See  William  of  Malmsb.  Hist.  lib.  v.  p.  173.  The  Annals  of  Winches- 
ter, loc.  cit.  call  Godfrey  "vir  perfectts  bonitatis  et  pietatis,"  and  add, 
''Quantse  autem  discretionis  et  bonitatis  et  caritatis  prsedicti  pnepositi  Simeon 
et  Godefridua  ftierint,  testantor  qnsB  adhuc  snnt  in  Wintoniensi  ecclesia 
illorum  donaria.*'  The  epitaph  printed  by  Tanner  from  a  MS.  at  Oxford, 
says,^ 

"  Wintonise  monaches  prior  ntpote  semper  amandus 
Rebus  dita^it,  moribna  ezcolnit." 
f  A.  Mcyii.  Godefridus  prior  Wintoniensis  venerabilis  memoria  deoessit. 
Annal.  Eccl.  Wint.  p.  297.    The  epitaph  in  Tanner  thus  records  the  day 
of  his  death : 

**  Sol  erat  in  GeminJs,  et  erat  Cancmm  sabitams 
Post  sex  inde  dies,  cum  Godefridus  obit." 
X  Literarum  protestantur  libri  plures,  et  epistols  familiari  illo  et  dulci 
stylo  editte,  mazimeque  epigrammata  quae  satirico  modo  absolvit,  praeterea 
▼ersns  de  primatum  Anglic  laudibus.    W.  Malmsb.  Hist.  lib.  ▼.  p.  173. 

$  MS.  Cotton.  Vitellius  A.  xii.  and  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  MSS.  Digby, 
No.  65,  «ad  Digby  No.  US. 


Died  11O70      OODFRBT  of  winghbstbr.  35 

two^  four^  six^  and  eight  lines  each,  their  object  being  to 
inculcate  moral  sentiments,  or  to  ridicule  or  satirize  either 
the  personal  vices  of  some  of  his  contemporaries,  or  the 
general  vices  of  his  time.  The  following  specimens  will 
give  a  notion  of  his  distichs : 

Pauea  uHUa  muitU  inutiiibtu  proponm^. 

Pauoa  Titas  pretioss  dabat,  sed  rilia  plura  i 
Ut  mellora  habeam  pavea  det  oro  Titus. 

Neque  decipere  neque  decipi. 

Nnlluio  decipias  nee  decipiaris  ab  ullo, 
Fallere  vel  falli,  Pirame,  par  Titium  est. 

ExituB  rerum  intpieiendos. 

Aut  sapit  Archesilas  et  prospicit  ultima  rerum, 
Aut  si  oontemnit  non  sapit  Archesilas. 

In  the  following  tetrastich,  Godfrey  enforces  the  gospel 
doctrine  of  doing  to  others  as  we  would  wish  to  be  done 
by: 

QHUB  aliiafeeeris  ab  eis  ejtpectare  modern, 

Jurgia,  damores  tibi  gloria,  gloria  lites, 

Et  facia  et  dicis  omnibus  unde  noces  ; 
Ezpectas  eadem  qna  nobis  feceris,  Albi, 

Nam  qnem  tu  kedis  te  ferit  ille  libens. 

In  another,  he  amplifies  a  well-known  proverb  : 

Locum  morea  nan  mutare. 

Serpentem  innocuum  facinnt  deserta  loconun, 
Non  quia  virus  abest,  sed  quia  cui  noceat ; 

Dat  Tims  natura,  locus  non,  ergo  recedens 
Tu  Tims  tecum,  Gratidiane,  feres. 

In  a  third  he  describes  the  vicissitudes  of  human  life : 

Viiam  kominii  voriam  me» 

Alternis  vicibns  mntantpr  tempora  mundi, 

Temperies  coelii  Plaute,  vices  patitur ; 
Sic  altematur  humane  formula  vitse, 

Tristibiis  et  tetis  assimulata  ruit. 

The  lines  on  Lanfranc  may  be  given  as  a  specimen  of 
Godfrey's  collection  of  epigrams  on  some  of  the  great 
men  of  his  time. 

d2 


36  liUCiAN  OF  CHESTER.      [Flourished  llOO. 

J)e  La^firanco  arehitpUcopo, 

YizUti,  venerande  pater,  sapienter  et  fleqae^ 

Vixiflti  Yivens,  mors  quoque  vita  tibi. 
Inter  divitias  pauper,  Lanfrance,  foisti, 

Divitiis  manans  pauperom  amator  eras* 
Qutt  te  florentes  artes  valuere  Latinte, 

Grsecia  de  nobis  ecce  triumphat  orans. 
Tu  Latios  ortu  Gallosque  docendo  lerasti, 

Te  sibi  primatem  oardo  Britannus  habet. 
In  terra  d^ens  ooelestia  mente  petebas, 

Exemptus  terra  sidera  liber  adis. 
Sol  Geminos  denis  obsederat  igne  diebas, 

Promsit  luna  diem,  nocte  solntos  abis. 

Tanner  indicates  one  or  two  other  small  pieces  which 
have  been  attributed  to  Godfrey  of  Winchester,  but  ap- 
parently without  any  good  reason.  His  epigrams  have 
not  yet  been  printed.* 


LUCIAN  OF  CHESTER. 

Among  the  manuscripts  in  the  Bodleian  library^f  a 
book  is  preserved,  which  purports  to  have  been  written 
by  a  monk  of  Chester,  who  names  himself  Lucianus,  and 
which  is  entitled  De  Lavdibus  CestruBy  (On  the  Praises  of 
Chester.)  This  treatise  is  curious  as  being  the  earliest 
attempt  we  know  at  writing  the  history  or  description  of 
a  town.  It  is  supposed  to  have  been  written  about  the 
year  1 100,  and  the  manuscript  is  perhaps  contemporary, 
or  nearly  contemporary,  with  that  date.  Unfortunately, 
the  chief  ornaments  of  Chester  in  the  eyes  of  the  author 
of  this  book  were  its  monks ;  and,  after  giving  a  few 
desultory  chapters  on  the  city,  its  gates,  streets,  and 
churches,  he  proceeds  to  the  monastery  of  St.  Werburgh, 

*  Articles  on  Godfrey  of  Winchester  will  be  found  in  Leyser,  Hist.  Poet. 
Med.  ^v.  p.  371,  and  in  the  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  iz.  p.  352. 
t  MS.  Bodley,  No.  672. 


Flourished  1102.]  SiEWULF.  37 

the  praises  of  which,  and  of  the  clerks^  monks^  bishop^ 
abbot,  prior,  sub-prior,  &c.  take  up  by  much  the  larger 
part  of  the  book.  Nothing  further  is  known  of  the  writer ; 
but  it  is  pretended  that  he  was  the  author  of  another  his- 
torical work,  entitled  Instrumenium  Histaricum  Af^licB.* 
The  following  extract,  which  contains  the  commencement 
of  the  description  of  Chester,  will  serve  as  a  specimen  of 
the  character  of  this  book. 

Primo  Tidendnm  quod  Cestria,  id  esty  qnse  sdificatar  ut  dvitaB  cnjai^ 
positio  invitat  aspectam,  qiue  in  occiduis  Britannifle  positai  legionibiu  ex 
longinqno  yenientibus  receptoria  quondam  ad  repansandum  fuit,  et  Roman! 
serf  ana  limitem  imperii,  clayesi  ut  ita  dixerim,  Hibernorum  custodire 
sufficit.  Nam  contra  aquilonare  comu  Hibemise  opposita,  non  tarn  crebro 
quam  continue  ob  causas  meantium  et  commoda  merdum  diversarum,  velis 
aptatis  Tiam  aperit  cursibus  nayium  atque  nautamm;  dumque  orientem 
yersua  prstendit  intuitu  non  solum  Romanam  ante  se  cathedram  et  im- 
perium  Terum  et  orbem  prospidt  universum,  ut  tanquam  spectaculum 
proposita  sint  obtutibus  oculorum  fortia  facta  patmm,  series  longissimi 
rerum,  et  quicquid  in  orbe  quibusque  personis,  locis,  temporibus»  bene 
gestum  est  cognoscatur,  quod  male  actum  est  cayeatur.  Quse  a  yentis 
quatuor  portas  quatuor  habens,  ab  oriente  prospectat  Indiam,  ab  occidente 
Hiberniamy  ab  Aquilone  mitforem  Normanniam,  a  meridie  earn  quam  diyina 
seyeritaa  ob  ciyiles  et  naturales]  discordias  Britannia  reliquit  aogularem 
angustiam.  Qui  olim  discidiis  et  odiis  amans  Britanniam  in  Angliam 
mutayerity  et  quibus  adhuc  moribus  fnlgeant  qui  yidnantur  ds  cum  lacrimis 
legunt. 


SiEWULP. 

Within  a  few  years  after  the  Norman  Conquest  a  tra- 
veller^ whose  name  shows  him  to  have  been  an  Anglo- 
Saxon,  visited  the  Holy  Land,  and  wrote  an  account  of 
his  travels,  which  is  still  preserved.  Scewulf  has  left  us 
no  further  information  concerning  himself  than  his  name 
and  the   narrative   of  his  wanderings;  but  William  of 

*  Tanner;  Biblioth.  p.  487. 


38  8AWULF.  [Flouriihed  1102. 

Malmsbury  has  preserved  a  story  of  a  man  of  this  name^ 
who  lived  at  the  same  time,  and  whose  character  seems 
so  far  to  coincide  with  that  of  the  traveller^  that  we  can 
hardly  hesitate  in  believing  him  to  be  the  same  person* 
William  of  Malmsbury  tells  us  that  SsQwulf  was  a  mer- 
chant who  frequently  repaired  to  Wulstan  of  Worcester 
to  confess  his  sins^  and  as  frequently^  when  his  fit  of  peni- 
tence was  over,  fell  back  into  the  same  course  of  worldli- 
ness.  Wulstan  advised  him  to  quit  the  profession  in 
which  he  met  with  such  continual  temptations^  and  become 
a  monk ;  and  when  he  refused,  the  bishop  prophecied  that 
the  time  would  arrive  when  he  should  take  the  habit  in 
spite  of  his  previous  repugnance;  '^  which/'  says  the  relator, 
"  I  afterwards  saw  fulfilled,  for  he  was  converted  in  our  mo- 
nastery in  his  old  age^  driven  to  it  by  disease/^  ^  It 
seems  natural  enough  that  the  merchant,  in  a  moment  of 
penitence,  should  have  undertaken  a  pilgrimage  to  Jeru- 
salem, to  which  people's  attention  had  just  been  called  by 
the  first  conquests  of  the  crusaders.  I  think  there  is  no- 
thing in  the  narrative  to  lead  us  to  believe  that  the  tra- 
veller was  a  monk  at  the  time  he  made  the  voyage ;  and 
he  speaks  in  remarkable  terms  of  his  own  failings.f 

Saewulf  s  narrative  begins  abruptly  with  his  departure 
from  Monopoli  on  the  coast  of  Italy,  on  the  13th  of  July, 
1 102.  A  violent  storm  drove  the  pilgrims  along  the  coast  to 
Brindisi,  where  they  were  obliged  to  stay  till  their  ship 
was  repaired.  Having  again  left  the  coast  of  Italy,  Sae- 
wulf passed  by  the  Ionian  islands,  Corfu  (July  24),  and 
Cephalonia  (Aug«  1)  and  arrived  at  Corinth  on  the  9th  of 
August,  from  whence,  passing  by  Stives,  the  ancient 

*  W.  Malmsb.  de  Geit.  Pontif.  p.  382. 

t  Ego  SRwlfds,  licet  indignus  et  peccator,  Jerosolimam  pergens..  ..yel 
pondere  pre9tu»  peeeamhiMinf  toI  penuria  Xk&yiB,  per  Bltain  pelagOB  tran- 
flire  nequiyi.    Prolog. 


Flourished  1102.]  ajswulf»  39 

Thebes,  he  reached  Negropont  on  the  23rd.  Here  the 
pilgrims  embarked  again,  and,  after  touching  at  many  of 
the  islands  of  the  Grecian  archipelago,  and  suffering  much 
from  tempestuous  weather,  they  landed  at  Joppen,  or 
Jaffa,  on  the  12th  of  October.  The  next  seven  months 
were  spent  in  visiting  Jerusalem  and  the  holy  places  from 
Gennesareth  to  Hebron,  the  account  of  which  occupies 
the  larger  portion  of  Saewulf's  narrative.  He  left  Jaffa 
on  his  return  on  the  17th  of  May,  1103,  and,  retracing 
partly  the  same  route  by  which  he  had  come^  he  went 
to  Constantinople,  where  the  narrative  leaves  him  in 
the  month  of  October. 

The  relation  of  Siewulf  is  of  small  extent,  and  his  lati- 
nity  is  rude  and  unpolished.  It  is  valuable  for  a  few 
points  of  historical  and  geographical  information  which  it 
contains^  and  as  a  link  in  the  chain  of  evidence  relating  to 
the  holy  sites.  Only  one  manuscript  of  this  book  is 
known  to  exist;  *  from  which  it  was  edited  by  the  learned 
geographer  M.  IPAvezac,  who,  in  his  Introduction,  has 
investigated  with  remarkable  penetration  and  erudition 
the  dates  of  Swwulf's  wanderings  and  his  geographical 
nomenclature.  The  description  of  the  storm  which  he 
escaped  on  his  first  arrival  at  Jaffa,  will  give  a  notion  of 
the  latinity  of  the  merchant-pilgrim. 

Arrigite  aures,  carissimi,  et  audite  misericordiam  qaam  Dei  dementia 
mihiy  licet  ultimo  lerro  svo,  meisque  ezhibuit.  Nam  eadem  die  qua  appu* 
limuB,  quidam  dixit  mihi,  ut  credo»  deifice,  **  Domine,  hodie  litut  asoendey 
ne  forte  nocte  vel  diluculo  tempestate  superreniente  craa  aacendere  non 
poMis.''  Quod  dum  audivi,  statim  captus  desiderio  ascendeodi,  naviculum 
conduxi,  et  cum  omnibus  meis  ascendi.  Me  autem  aacendente,  mare  turbaba- 
tur ;  crevit  commotio  et  facta  est  tempestas  valida,  sed  ad  litus  divina  gratia 
fayente  perveni  illsesus.  Quid  plura  ?  Civitatem  hospitandi  causa  intrayi- 
muBf  et  longo  labore  victi  atque  lassatii  refecti  pausayimus.  Mane  vero» 
dum  ab  ecelesia  venimus,  sonitum  maris  audiyimus,  clamorem  populi,  omnes- 
que  concurrentes  atque  mirantes  de  talibus  prius  inauditis;  nos  autem 

•  MS.  Corp.  Cbr.  Coll.  Cambr.  No.  111. 


40  SiBWULF.  [Flourished  1102. 

timentes  cnrrendo  rimul  cnm  aliia  TeniiiiiiB  ad  litus ;  dam  enim  iliac  penre- 
nimoBi  vidimas  tempestatem  altitadinem  superexcellere  montium  ;  corpora 
quidem  innnmerabUia  hominum  atriasqae  sexas  siunmerBoram  ia  littore 
miserrime  jacentia  aspeximos ;  naves  minatatim  fractas  jazta  yolatantes 
simol  TidimuB-  Sed  quis  pneter  rai^tam  maris  et  fragorem  naviom  quic- 
qnam  aadire  potait  ?  Clamorem  etiam  populi,  sonitumqae  omnium  turba- 
rum  ezeessit  Navis  aatem  nostra  maxima  atqae  fortissima,  aliseqae  multte 
fromento  alitiqae  mercim'oniis  atque  peregrinis  venientibos  atqoe  redevnti- 
bus  oneratae,  ancboris  fanibasque  adbnc  in  profundo  ntcnnqae  detentn,  quo- 
modo  ilactibas  jactabantur  I  qnomodo  mali  metu  incidebantur !  quomodo 
mercimonia  abjieiebsatar  I  qoalis  ocnlns  intuentiam  tam  durus  atqae 
lapideas  a  fleta  se  posset  retinere?  Non  dia  illnd  aspeximos  anteqoam 
Tiolentia  andaram  Tel  flactnom  anchorse  lapserunt;  fiines  vero  rampe- 
bantar ;  nsTes  rero,  sereritate  andaram  laxatK,  omni  spe  evadendi  erepta, 
nanc  in  altam  elevatae,  naoc  in  ima  detrasse»  paalatim  de  profanditate 
tandem  in  arenam  Tel  in  scopolos  projiciebantar ;  ibi  yero  de  latere  in 
latas  miserrime  coliidebantori  ibi  minatatim  a  tempestate  dilacera- 
bantar;  neque  ferocitas  Tentorom  in  profandnm  rererti  integras,  neque 
altitado  arense  sinebat  eas  ad  litas  perrenire  illssas.  Sed  quid  atti> 
net  dicere  quam  flebiliter  nautse  et  peregrini,  qaidam  naTibus,  quidam  Tero 
malls,  qaidam  antennis,  quidam  autem  traostris,  omni  spe  CTadendi  privati, 
adhsserunt?  Quid  plant  dicam?  Qaidam  stupore  consumpti  ibidem 
dimersi  sunt ;  qaidam  a  lignis  propriae  navisi  quod  incredibile  multis  Tide- 
tur,  adhserentes,  me  TidentCi  ibidem  sunt  obtruncati ;  quidam  autem  a  tabulis 
navi  evulsis  iterum  in  profundum  deportabantur ;  quidam  autem  natare  sci* 
entes  sponte  se  flnctibus  commiserunt,  et  ita  qaamplures  perienmt;  per- 
paud  quippe»  propria  Tirtute  confidenteSf  ad  litus  illesi  pervenerunt.  Igi- 
tur  ex  navibus  triginta  maximisy  quarum  qusedam  dromundiy  quiedam  Tero 
guUfri,  qUBdam  autem  catti  Tulgariter  Toeantur,  omnibus  oneratis  palmariis 
Tel  roercimoniis,  anteqnam  a  litore  discessissem,  tIx  septem  illses»  perman- 
seruot.  Homines  Tero  diversi  sexus  plusquam  miUe  die  ilia  perierunt :  ma- 
jorem  etenim  miseriam  una  die  nullus  Tidit  oculus ;  sed  ab  bis  omnibus  sui 
gratia  eripuit  me  Dominusi  ctti  bonor  et  gloria  per  intinita  secula :  Amen. 

Editiont 

Recueil  de  Voyages  et  de  M  ^moires  publics  par  la  Soci^t^  de  Geographic 
torn.  It.  Paris,  1839,  4to.  pp.  817 — 854.  The  Voyage  of  Snwulf,  edited, 
with  a  Tery  learned  and  Taluable  Introduction,  by  M.  D*ATezac. 


Died  1108.']  gundulf.  41 


GUNDULF. 

Gundulf,  *  one  of  the  most  celebrated  of  our  early  Nor- 
man bishops^  was  bom  in  the  diocese  of  Rouen^  and 
studied  grammar  at  Rouen  in  his  boyhood.  His  talents 
and  behaviour  procured  him  the  friendship  of  William 
archdeacon  of  that  churchy  and^  through  himi  of  the  arch- 
bishop Maurilius.f  In  company  with  the  archdeacon  he 
undertook  a  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem^  and^  being  over- 
taken by  a  dangerous  storm  on  their  return^  they  both 
made  vows  to  become  monks  if  they  escaped.  They  even- 
tually reached  Rouen  in  safety,  and  each  hastening  to  fulfil 
his  vow^  Gundulf  repaired  to  Bee  to  place  himself  under 
the  rule  of  abbot  Herluin  and  prior  Lanfranc.  It  was 
there  that  he  first  made  the  acquaintance  of  Anselm^  who 
entered  the  abbey  of  Bee  the  same  year  (A.  D.  1059),  and 
formed  a  friendship  which  lasted  during  his  life.  The 
amiable  spirit  of  Gundulf  soon  rendered  him  a  favourite 
with  Lanfranc^  who^  when  he  became  abbot  of  Caen,  took 
him  with  him  to  assist  in  the  management  of  that  monas- 
tery.J  William  of  Malmsbury  has  preserved  a  story 
which  represents  Lanfranc,  while  abbot  of  Caen^  prophe- 
cying  that  his  disciple  Gundulf  would  one  day  be  a 
bishop.§  When,  in  IO70,  the  abbot  of  Caen  was  promoted 
to  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury,  he  took  Gundulf  with 
him  to  England^  and,  well  acquainted  with  his  skill  in 
domestic  business,  placed  him  over  his  own  household. || 

*  An  tnoii3rmott8  life  of  Gundulf^  written  by  a  monk  of  Rochester  soon 
after  hiB  death,  is  printed  in  the  Anglia  Sacra,  torn.  ii.  p.  373. 

t  Vita  Gnndulfi,  p.  274. 

X  Ut  secnm  in  ^osdem  coenobii  gnbematione  coadjutorem  haberet.  Vita 
Gondnlfi,  p.  376. 

§  W.  Malmsb.  de  Vit  Pontif.  lib.  1.  p.  Sd3. 

II  Et  quia  in  rebut  etiam  ezterioribns  indnstrins  Yalde  erat»  rei  famlliaris 
gate  procoratorem  conitituit.  Vita  Gunduldi  pt  376» 


42  GiTKOttLP.  [2>ied  1108, 

In  this  office  Gundulf  had  the  distribution  of  tl.e  arch- 
bishop's numerous  charities^  an  occupation  which  appears 
to  have  been  peculiarly  suited  to  his  taste^  for  his  bio- 
grapher descants  frequently  on  the  benevolence  of  his 
disposition.*'  Anselm  now  renewed  by  his  letters  the 
acquaintance  which  appears  to  have  been  broken  off  since 
Gundulf  s  departure  from  Bee.  Some  of  Anselm^s  letters 
to  Gundulf  are  still  preserved  among  his  correspondence. 

In  1076  Lanfranc  promoted  Gundulf  to  the  bishopric 
of  Rochester,  and  he  was  consecrated  on  the  19th  of 
March,  1077-  He  rebuilt  his  church,  increased  the  num- 
ber of  monks,  raised  the  monastery  to  a  high  state  of 
prosperity,  and  was  indefatigable  in  the  defence  and  im- 
provement of  his  diocese.  Before  his  promotion  to  the 
bishopric,  he  had  gained  the  good  opinion  of  William  the 
Conqueror ;  and  he  conducted  himself  with  so  much  pru- 
dence in  the  disputes  between  Anselm  and  William  Rufus, 
as  neither  to  offend  the  king  nor  desert  his  friend.f  He  was 
a  principal  instrument  in  securing  the  crown  to  Henry  I., 
whose  favour  and  that  of  his  queen  Matilda  he  enjoyed 
during  the  remainder  of  his  life.  Gundulf  died  on  the 
8th  of  March,  1108,  and  was  buried  in  the  cathedral  of 
Rochester.  A  time-worn  and  almost  shapeless  effigy  in 
stone,  still  preserved  there,  is  believed  to  have  formerly 
adorned  his  tomb. 

Although  Gundulf  was  not  distinguished  as  a  writer,^; 
he  evidently  possessed  a  love  of  letters  and  of  art.  One 
at  least  of  his  letters  to  Anselm  is  preserved,  and  several 
letters  from  Anselm  prove  that  he  must  have  written  at 
least  an  equal  number,  which  it  is  to  be  feared  are  now 
lost.    Gundulf  appears  to  have  been  an  active  assistant  of 

•  Vita  Gundnlfi,  pp.  376,  280,  284. 
f  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  iz.  p.  369. 

%  MalmslKiiy  nyi»  Brttqve  6and«lAis  rdlgioais  plettVf ,  litmnim  non 
nesciuB,  in  rebus  foreniAlmt  m«  et  tiimatis. 


Died  1108.]    oxrard  abohbishop  of  tobk.  43 

Lanfranc  in  copying  and  correcting  the  ancient  ecclesiastical 
writers.  The  authors  of  the  Histoire  litt^raire  de  France 
mention  a  laige  Bible  written  with  his  hand^  which  was 
sold  at  Amsterdam  among  the  books  of  Herman  van  de 
Wal  in  1 734 :  at  the  beginning  was  inscribed  Prima  par$ 
Biblia  per  bona  memoria  Gundulphum  Roffenaem  epieeo* 
pum/f^  In  modern  times  Gundidf  s  chief  celebrity  rests 
upon  his  skill  as  an  architect»  Besides  the  church  of 
Rochester^  he  is  said  to  have  built  for  the  king  the  formi- 
dable keep  of  Rochester  castle^  which  became  the  model 
for  most  of  the  castles  of  his  time» 


GERARD  ARCHBISHOP  OP  YORK. 

Gerard  was  the  nephew  of  Walchelin  bishop  of  Win- 
chester, and  of  Simeon  abbot  of  Ely^  and  was  therefore 
distantly  related  to  the  Conqueror.  He  was  grand-chanter 
of  the  church  of  Rouen^  and  probably  came  to  England  at 
the  invitation  of  his  uncle  bishop  Walchelin,  by  whose 
interest  he  was  made  one  of  the  chaplains  to  William 
Rufus.  That  king  sent  him  with  another  of  his  chaplains 
to  Rome  to  watch  the  proceedings  of  Anselm's  friends,  at 
the  time  of  his  quarrel  with  the  archbishop.  In  1096, 
Gerard  was  made  bishop  of  Hereford  \  being  then  only 
subdeacon,  he  was  ordained  deacon  and  priest  on  the 
same  day,  and  the  day  following  was  consecrated  bishop.f 
Bishop  Godwin  says  that  he  was  chancellor  of  England. 
He  was  promoted  to  the  archbishopric  of  York  in  1100, 
on  the  death  of  archbishop  Thomas,  and  went  to  Rome  to 
receive  the  pallium. 

Archbishop  Gerard  appears  not  to  have  been  high  in 

*  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  U.  p.  374.  f  lb.  p.  376. 


44  GERARD  ARCHBISHOP  OF  YORK.    [Died  1108. 

favour  with  the  English  clergy  of  his  time.  William  of 
Newbury  accuses  him  of  avarice.  But  a  much  more 
serious  crime  appears  to  have  been  his  refusal  to  acknow- 
ledge the  primacy  of  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  until 
he  was  persuaded  by  the  king  or  terrified  by  the  pope  into 
a  compliance.*  It  is  probable  also  that  he  was  attached  to 
scientific  studies,  on  which  the  more  orthodox  among  his 
contemporaries  were  then  accustomed  to  throw  discredit. 
The  writer  just  mentioned,  who  flourished  about  a  cen- 
tury later,  tells  us  that  he  was  accused  of  practising  sor- 
cery,t  and  it  is  related  as  a  thing  disgraceful  to  his 
memory  that  after  his  death  the  astrological  writings  of 
Julius  Firmicus  were  found  under  his  pillow.  He  died 
unexpectedly,  and  while  his  household  were  occupied  with 
different  affairs,  and  consequently  without  confession  and 
absolution.  His  clergy  made  this  an  excuse  for  refusing 
him  burial  within  the  church ;  he  was  committed  ignobly 
to  the  ground  without  the  doors,  and  his  body  was  allowed 
to  be  insulted  by  those  who  were  looking  on.t  His  suc- 
cessor,'however,  ordered  his  remains  to  be  disinterred, 
and  buried  them  honourably  beside  his  predecessors.  His 
death  occurred  in  1108. 

The  writers  of  the  Histoire  Littdraire  de  France  cite  a 
poem  as  being  preserved  in  the  Cottonian  Library,  under 
the  title  of  Versus  Girardi  archiepiscopi  Eboracensis ;  but 
nothing  of  the  sort  appears  now  in  the  catalogue  of  this 
collection.  Anselm  speaks  of  this  prelate  as  ^^  vir  admo- 
dum  literatus/^§  Three  of  Gerard's  letters  to  Anselm 
are  preserved  among  Anselm's  Epistles  and  in  Eadmer's 
History. 

*  W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Pontif.  lib.  iii.  p.  973.    W.  Newbrig.  Derebas 
Angl.  lib.  i.  e.  3. 
t  Uc  plorimi  asseTeront,  maleficiui  etlam  aftsttetas.    W*  Newbrig.  ib. 
t  W.  Malmsb.  and  W.  Newbr.  ib. 
§  Aiuelmi  ESpist.  lib.  iy.  ep.  2. 


nth  cent.]        sulcard.    ricemarchus*  45 


Minor  Writers  op  the  Eleventh  Century. 

Sulcard  is  known  only  as  the  writer  of  a  short  legen- 
dary history  of  the  abbey  of  Westminster,  of  which  he 
was  a  monk.  As  it  is  dedicated  to  the  abbot  Vitalis,  it 
must  have  been  written  between  1076  and  1082;  and  the 
writer  says  that  he  saw  the  old  monastery  before  it  was 
pulled  down  and  rebuilt  by  Edward  the  Confessor,  which 
must  have  been  early  in  that  monarch's  reign.  Bale  con- 
sidered him  to  have  been  an  Englishman ;  but  the  writers 
of  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de  France  are  of  opinion  that  he 
was  a  Norman,  in  which  case  he  must  have  been  one  of 
the  foreign  clergy  introduced  into  our  island  in  the  reign  of 
the  Confessor.  Two  copies  of  this  tract  are  preserved  in 
the  British  Museum.^  Pits  says,  that  in  his  time  Sul- 
card's  tombstone  was  still  seen  at  Westminster  with  the 
inscription :  Sulcardus  monackus  et  chronograpkus. 

RiGEMARGHus,  bishop  of  St.  David^s,  wrote  a  life  of  St. 
David,  which  was  the  foundation  of  all  subsequent  bio- 
graphies of  that  saint.  Of  this  author  little  is  known : 
according  to  Wharton,t  he  was  made  bishop  of  St.  David^s 
about  1085,  and  he  is  said  to  have  died  in  1096.  Several 
manuscripts  of  his  life  of  St.  David  are  preserved;  j:  and  a 
portion  of  it,  containing  matter  not  found  in  the  life  of 
the  same  saint  by  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  was  printed  by 

*  MSS.  Cotton.  Faustina,  A.  iii.  and  Titus,  A.  viii.  It  consists  of  six 
leaves.  The  writers  of  the  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  vol.  yiii.  p.  138,  supposed  it  to 
be  a  large  book. 

f  AngL  Sacr.  vol.  ii.  pref.  p.  xxy.     Others  say  in  1088. 

X  One  in  the  British  Museum,  MS.  Cotton.  Vespas.  A.  xiv.  two  in  the 
Bodleian  Library,  and  one  in  the  library  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cam- 
bridge. 


46  HEMMINQ,      HAMXLINU8.      OOLHAN.      [II th  Cent. 

Wharton  in  the  Anglia  Sacra.*     It  is  written  in  a  very 
proUx  and  affected  style. 

HsicMiNO^  sub-prior  of  Worcester  under  bishop  Wul- 
stan^  is  known  by  the  valuable  chartulary  of  the  church  of 
Worcester  which  he  compiled  by  Wulstan^s  directions. 
This  chartulary  contains  some  pieces  of  his  own  writing, 
particularly  a  brief  memoir  of  his  patron  the  bishop^ 
written  soon  after  his  deaths  which  has  been  printed  by 
Wharton.  The  whole  chartulary  was  afterwards  published 
by  Heame.t  Considerable  extracts  are  also  printed  in 
the  Monasticon. 

Bditiofu. 

Anglia  Sacra  (edited  by  H.  Wharton),  pars  prima.    Lond.  1691 ,  fol.  p.  541 . 

Vita  S.  Wlfltanl  episoopi  Wigomienais.     Anctore  Hemmlngo  monacho 

Wigorniensi. 
Hemingi  Chartnlarinm  Eccleaise  Wigomienais. .  .deaoripsit  ediditque  Tho. 

Heamins.    Ozonii,  1733,  2  vols.  8to. 

Hahelinus  of  Verulam,  prior  of  St*  Albania  and  a  dis- 
ciple of  Lanfranc,  compiled  a  book  on  the  customs 
and  government  of  monks^  extracts  from  which  are 
printed  in  the  Thesaurus  Anecdotorum  of  Martene  and 
Durand.t 

CoLMAN^  a  monk  of  Worcester,  also  wrote  the  life  of 
bishop  Wulstan.  He  was  the  bishop's  chaplain  during 
fifteen  years,  and  signs  a  charter  in  1089  (printed  in  the 
Monasticon)  as  his  chancellor.  He  was  subsequently 
made  by  Wulstan  prior  of  Westbury,§  and  according  to 
Florence  of  Worcester  died  on  the  4th  of  October,  1113, 
probably  at  a  very  advanced  age.    William  of  Malmsbury 

*  Angl.  Sacr.  yoI.  ii.  pp.  645—647. 

t  The  original  ia  MS.  Cotton.  Tiberiua,  A.  xiti. 

X  Thesaur.  Aneed.  torn.  ▼.  col.  1454. 

§  W.  Malmsb.  de  Vit*  Wvlstani,  lib.  ill*  c.  10. 


lliheentJ]     ai^win*    faritiu».    lxofrio.  47 

says  that  he  wrote  his  life  of  Wulstan  in  EngUsh  (i^  e«  in 
Anglo-Saxoti).* 

Alwin  or  AiLWiN^  an  EngUsh  hermit  who  is  supposed 
to  have  lived  at  the  end  of  the  eleventh  century,  wrote  a 
book  said  by  Pits  to  be  extant  in  the  library  of  St.  Peter's 
College,  Cambridge,  which  he  describes  as  ^^Librum 
quendam  ad  Herebertum  episcopum  Norwich' 

Among  the  writers  of  lives  of  saints  who  flourished  at 
this  period  we  must  not  omit  the  name  of  Faritius,  the 
writer  of  a  life  of  Aldhelm  frequently  quoted  by  William  of 
Malmsbury.  He  is  said  to  have  been  a  native  of  Tuscany, 
and  to  have  been  brought  over  to  England  by  Lanfranc. 
He  became  first  a  monk  of  the  abbey  of  Malmsbury, 
which  he  quitted  to  be  made  abbot  of  Abingdon  in  the 
year  1100.  Faritius  was  a  skilful  physician,  and  as  such 
is  reported  to  have  been  high  in  the  favour  of  the  king.  He 
is  said  to  have  written  a  book  to  prove  that  children  dying 
without  baptism  could  not  be  saved.  Bale  also  attributed 
to  him  a  collection  of  letters.  His  life  of  Aldhelm  is  ex- 
tant, and  was  printed  as  an  anonymous  biography  in  the 
Acta  Sanctorum,  from  a  MS.  in  the  Cottonian  Library.f 
Faritius  died  in  11 17. 

One  of  the  few  Anglo-Saxon  writers  after  the  Conquest 
was  Leofrio  of  Brun,  a  priest  in  the  service  of  Hereward. 
The  writer  of  the  Latin  life  of  Hereward  has  preserved  the 


*  ColmannoB  monachus  Tester,  vir  nee  scientiae  imperitas,  nee  sermone 

patrio  infaoetoi.    Seriptit  enim  AngUoei  ne  gettorum  avolaret  memoria, 

▼itam  ejntdem  patria ;  ai  atteadaa  ad  senaomi  lepore  graTi,  ai  ad  literam 

simpliciute  rudi.    W.  Malmib.    De  Vit.  Wnbt.  ap.  Angl.  Sac.  voL  ii. 

i  p.  243. 

t  Aiota  Sanetomm  Mail,  torn.  ▼!.  p.  84.    See  the  authoritlea  for  the 
account  of  Faritins,  in  Tanner,  p^  873. 


48        WARNIBR.     JOHANNES  ORAMMATIC0S«     [ll th  Cent. 

name  of  this  man  from  oblivion ;  he  says  that  he  wrote  the 
history  of  Hereward's  youth^  and  that  it  was  his  fjEtvourite 
occupation  to  collect  together  the  romantic  legends  of 
his  country^  and  commit  them  to  writing  in  his  native 
tongue.* 

Warnier^  or  Garnier^  who  from  his  writings  obtained 
the  title  of  homeliariuSf  was  a  monk  of  Westminster^  and 
dedicated  his  homilies^  which  appear  now  to  be  lost^  to 
Gilbert  Crispin.  We  learn  from  Thomas  of  Ely  that  he 
was  present,  and  then  very  aged,  at  the  translation  of  the 
body  of  St.  Withburg  in  October,  1 106,  Besides  his  col- 
lection of  homilies  or  sermons  for  the  whole  year^  he  is 
said  to  have  written  Deflarationes  SS.  Patrum,  which  is 
supposed  to  be  the  same  work  which  was  printed  at  Basil 
in  1494  under  the  title,  Jei^neri  abbatis  deflorationes  super 
Evangelia  de  tempore  per  anni  ctrculum.  This  cannot  be 
the  work  of  Warmer  of  Westminster,  who  was  never 
abbot.  The  Fasciculus  Temporum  has  also  been  wrongly 
ascribed  to  him. 

Several  writers  place  immediately  after  the  Conquest  an 
English  grammarian  whom  they  name  Johannes  Gram- 
MATicus,  and  to  whom  they  attribute  various  works  which 
were  certainly  written  by  other  persons.f  As  far  as  I 
have  been  able  to  discover,  this  writer  is  a  mere  creature 
of  the  imagination,  made  out  of  the  names  of  Johannes 
Philoponus,  Johannes  Guallensis,  and  Johannes  de  Gar- 
landia,  some  of  whose  writings  have  been  attributed  to 
an  imaginary  personage,  because  they  happened  to  be 
found  under  the  simple  name  of  magister  Johannes. 

*  Hujus  enim  memorati  presbyter!  erat  stadianii  omnes  actus  gigantam 
et  bellatorum  ex  fabulis  antiquonmii  aat  ex  fideli  relatione,  ad  edificationem 
audientium  congregare,  et  ob  memoriam  Angliae  Uteris  commendare.  De 
Gestis  Herwardi,  ap.  Chron.  Anglo-Normandes,  toI.  ii.  p.  S. 

t  See  Warton,  History  of  English  Poetry,  yoI.  i.  p.  cxvii.  (edit,  of  1840} 
and  Tanner,  nnder  Johmnet  Gramtnaiicut* 


Died  ilOO.]  akselm.  49 


ANSELM, 

Anselm,  like  his  predecessor  Lanfranc^  was  a  native  of 
Italy.*  He  was  bom  at  Aosta,  in  Piedmont^  at  the  foot 
of  the  Graian  Alps^  about  the  year  1033.  His  parents 
held  an  honourable  rank  in  society  j  for  his  mother,  Er- 
menberga,  appears  to  have  been  distantly  related  to  the 
counts  of  Maurienne^  the  ancestors  of  the  ducal  house  of 
Savoy .t  His  father^  Gundulf,  was  descended  from  a 
noble  Lombard  family,  and  had  settled  at  Aosta^  where 
he  married  Ermenberga.  They  possessed  a  moderate 
fortune ;  but  it  required  all  the  prudence  of  Anselm's 
mother,  who  was  a  careful  housekeeper,  to  preserve  it 
from  the  effects  of  his  father's  extravagance.  It  appears 
that  Gundulf  was  a  man  of  violent  temper,  and  that  his 
life  was  somewhat  irregular,  until  at  the  approach  of  death 
he  took  the  habit  of  a  monk.  Anselm  in  his  childhood  im- 
bibed religious  sentiments  from  the  teaching  and  example 
of  his  mother,  and  exhibited  an  early  taste  for  learning. 

*  Our  chief  aathority  for  the  history  of  Anselm  is  the  life  by  his  disciple 
Eadmer,  and  the  Historia  NoTomm  of  the  same  writer.  William  of  Malms- 
bury,  who  g^Tes  a  long  account  of  Anselm,  professes  to  follow  Eadmer 
chiefly.  The  Life  and  Works  of  Anselm  hsTebeen  frequently  treated  by  mo- 
dem writers.  A  Spaniard  named  Joseph  Saens  d'Aguire  wrote  a  large  work 
on  the  Theology  of  St.  Anselm  in  the  latter  halfof  the  seventeenth  century, 
which  was  tvice  printed  in  three  vol.  folio,  at  Salamanca,  1679 — 1685,  and 
Rome,  1688 — 1690.  An  Istoria  panegyrica  di  S.  Anselmo,  by  Andrea 
Raineri,  in  4  vol.  4to.  was  published  at  Modena,  1693 — 1706.  In  Germany, 
more  recently,  G.  F.  Franck  published  a  Darstellung  Anselm's,  Ttibingen, 
184S  ;  and  F.  R.  Hasse,  who  had  published  a  scholastic  dissertation  (An- 
selmi  Cantuariensis  de  imagine  divina  doctrine,)  in  Ilgen's  Zeitschrift  far 
histor.  Theologie  in  1835,  has  given  to  the  world  the  first  volume  of  a  larger 
memoir  under  the  title,  Anselm  von  Canterbury,  8vo.  Leipsig,  1843. 

f  Eadmeri  Yit.  Anselmi,  p.  2.  In  Gerberon's  edition  of  his  works. 
Hasse,  Anselm  v.  Cunt.  vol.  i.  p.  4S. 

VOL.  II.  B 


50  ANSSLM.  [Bom  1033. 

His  father  discouraged  the  child  in  his  pursuits^  and  when, 
at  the  age  of  fifteen,  Anselm  ventured  to  declare  his  wish 
to  embrace  a  monastic  life,  the  anger  of  the  parent  was 
so  strongly  expressed  that  the  youth  determined  to  quit 
his  home  and  country  and  throw  himself  upon  the  wide 
world.*  He  left  home  secretly,  in  company  with  a  do- 
mestic chaplain,  who  perhaps  had  encouraged  the  design, 
and  they  loaded  an  ass  with  a  sack  containing  a  small 
stock  of  provisions.  These  failed  them  when  they  were 
passing  over  mount  Cenis  3  they  were  compelled  to  melt 
snow  in  their  mouths  to  quench  their  thirst,  and  Anselm 
became  so  weary  and  faint  that  he  was  unable  to  proceed. 
A  small  loaf,  unexpectedly  found  in  a  comer  of  the  sack, 
gave  him  courage  and  strength  to  continue  his  way,  and 
enabled  them  to  reach  the  bounds  of  these  inhospitable 
regions.  Of  the  next  three  years  of  Anselm's  life,  we  only 
know  that  they  were  spent,  perhaps  fruitlessly,  partly  in 
Burgundy,  and  partly  in  France.  It  does  not  appear  how 
he  was  occupied  during  this  period,  but  in  the  course  of 
his  wanderings  he  arrived  at  Avranches,  and  there  he  first 
heard  of  the  fame  of  his  countryman  Lanfranc  and  the 
school  of  Bee. 

The  eagerness  after  learning  which  had  distinguished 
Anselm  in  his  childhood  now  returned,  and  he  hastened 
to  Bee  to  place  himself  under  Lanfiranc's  tuition.  He 
devoted  himself  to  his  studies  with  wonderful  persever- 
ance, scarcely  quitting  his  books  by  night  or  by  day, 
and  often  forgetting  his  meals.  When  Lanfranc  at  length 
made  him  a  partner  in  his  labours,  and  entrusted  to  him 
the  instruction  of  others,  Anselm  showed  little  taste  for 

*  Patrlam  terrain  ^zeiindl  patrfs  ira  adoleficenti  occaeionem  ingessit :  quam 
cum  ille  nuLlo  posset  lenire  ingenlo,  ne  domestiea  simultas  in  yiolationem 
mtiurae  tranairet,  absoessn  fefidlit  buo.  W.  Mabnsb.  de  Gestis  Pontif.  lib.  i. 
p.  216.    Conf.  Eadmer,  pp.  S,  3.    HaNe,  rol  I  p.  46. 


Died  1 109.]  anselm.  5 1 

this  occupation ;  he  preferred  solitude  and  meditation  to 
an  active  life^  and^  after  much  doubting  as  to  where  and 
how  he  should  take  the  habit,  and  alter  consulting  with 
Lanfranc  and  with  Maurilius  archbishop  of  Rouen,  he 
became  a  monk  in  the  abbey  of  Bee,  in  the  twenty-seventh 
year  of  his  age  (a,p.  1060).     Still  Anselm  was  not  allowed 
to  remain  inactive ;  for,  when  Lanfranc  was  made  abbot 
of  Caen  (not,  as  commonly  supposed,  in  1063,  but  in 
1066),  Anselm  was  chosen  to  succeed  him  as  prior  of  Bee, 
an  office  which  he  held  till  abbot  Herluin's  death  in  1 078, 
when  he  was  farther  raised  to  be  his  successor.    As  monk 
and  prior,  Anselm  was  disting^shed  so  much  by  his  piety 
and  virtues  that  his  brethren  believed  him  to  be  possessed 
of  the  power  of  working  miracles.    At  his  election  to  fill 
this  office,  the  other  monks  were  jealous  at  seeing  so 
young  a  man  passed  over  their  heads,  but  he  gradually 
conciliated  them  by  the  gentleness  of  his  temper.     He 
was  indefatigable  in  teaching  and  in  attending  to  the 
spiritual  welfare  of  those  committed  to  his  care.    At  the 
same  time  he  found  abundant  leisure  for  study  and  medi- 
tation ;  for  it  was  during  this  period  that  he  composed 
the  greatest  portion  of  his  works,  including  the  Monolo- 
gion  and  the  Proslogion,  the  tract  against  Gaunilo,  the 
treatises  de  Veritate,  de  Casu  Diaboli,  de  Libertate  Ar- 
bitrii,  and  De  Grammatico,  and  his  Meditations.     With 
these  works  his  fame  spread  not  only  through  Normandy, 
France,  and  Flanders,  and  the  surrounding  countries,  but 
he  was  well  known  in  England,  and  added  to  the  reputation 
as  well  as  to  the  riches  of  his  abbey.* 

The  abbey  of  Bee  had  possessions  in  England,  and  soon 
after  his  election  abbot  Anselm  found  it  necessary  to  visit 
them.  This  was  a  favourable  opportunity  of  consulting 
with  his  ancient  friend  Lanfranc,  by  whom  he  was  re- 

*  Eadmer,  Yit.  Anselmiypp.  3—8.    W.  Malmib.  p.  216. 

E  2 


5^  ANSELM.  [Bom  1033. 

ceived  at  Canterbury  with  the  greatest  marks  of  distinc- 
tion and  esteem.  He  spent  a  short  time  in  the  society  of 
the  monks  of  Canterbury,  and  gave  his  advice  in  the  ques- 
tion then  agitated  relating  to  the  sanctity  of  the  Saxon 
archbishop  ^Elfege.* 

In  other  parts  of  England  Anselm  was  received  with 
the  same  marks  of  respect  as  at  Canterbury.  This  oc- 
curred in  the  year  1079,  and  Anselm  appears  not  to  have 
visited  our  island  again  until  he  was  invited  over  by 
Hugh  earl  of  Chester,  in  1092,  to  settle  a  colony  of  monks 
of  Bee  in  the  monastery  which  that  nobleman  had  founded, 
or  rather  restored,  in  that  city.  At  this  time  Lanfranc 
had  been  dead  about  four  years,  during  which  period  the 
see  of  Canterbury  was  allowed  to  remain  vacant,  and  the 
king,  William  Rufus,  collected  the  revenues  into  his  own 
treasury.  It  appears  that  the  eyes  of  the  English  clergy 
had  long  been  directed  towards  Anselm  as  his  successor  ; 
and  it  is  said  that  he  deferred  his  visit  to  England  to 
avoid  giving  any  occasion  of  believing  that  he  was  ambi- 
tious of  the  dignity .t  Anselm  arrived  at  Canterbury  on 
the  7th  of  September,  1092,  and  proceeded  immediately 
to  Chester,  where  he  remained  during  the  greater  part  of 
the  winter.  At  Christmas  the  bishops  and  barons  pressed 
upon  the  king  the  necessity  of  filling  up  the  vacant  arch- 
bishopric, and  recommended  Anselm ;  but  William  re- 
fused to  listen  to  them,  and  was  only  reluctantly  com- 
pelled to  yield  by  the  terror  caused  by  a  dangerous  disease 
with  which  he  was  shortly  afterwards  visited.  It  appears 
from  his  letters  that  Anselm  was  retained  in  England  by 

*  Eadmer,  Vit.  Anselm.  p.  10. 

f  Hujusmodi  verba  ad  aures  ejus  perlata  continuerunt  eum  in  Normannia 
totis  5  annis,  qaamYis  crebro  causis  ingruentibus  ultra  mare  advocaretur : 
invitayit  ergo  eum  mnltorum  necessitas,  sed  retrahcbat  timor  ne  faroK  me- 
lioris  oblitus  raptari  ambitione  arcbiepiscopatus  putaretnr.  W.  Malmsb.  de 
Gest.  Pontif.'lib.  i.  p.  217. 


Died  1 109.]  anselm.  53 

the  affairs  of  the  monastery  of  Bee:*  in  the  February 
of  1093  he  was  preparing  for  his  return,  when  the  king 
suddenly  declared  his  election  to  the  see  of  Canterbury, 
Anselm  obstinately  refused  the  proffered  dignity :  but  the 
English  bishops,  after  vainly  attempting  to  overcome  his 
scruples,  forced  the  pastoral  staff  into  his  hand,  dragged 
him  into  the  church  of  Gloucester  (where  the  court  was 
then  held),  and  there  hastily  consecrated  him,  on  Sunday 
the  6th  of  March,  1093.  Anselm  declared  that  this  act 
was  null,  as  being  contrary  to  his  will :  but  he  was  at 
length  prevailed  upon  to  waive  his  scruples  and  obey  the 
king's  commands.  He  made  his  entry  into  Canterbury 
on  the  25th  of  September  following,  and  he  was  more 
regularly  consecrated  on  the  4th  of  December. 

Anselm's  conduct,  and  the  reasons  he  gave  for  it,  show 
that  he  had  a  presentiment  of  the  troubles  with  which  his 
new  dignity  was  afterwards  attended.  At  the  feast  of 
Christmas  immediately  following  his  ordination,  Anselm 
attended  the  court,  and  the  king  took  that  opportunity  of 
demanding  the  heriot,  which  in  England  it  had  been  the 
practise  to  demand  on  the  death  of  the  holder  and  in- 
duction of  his  successor,  even  in  ecclesiastical  estates. 
The  archbishop  offered  him  five  hundred  pounds  of  silver; 
but  after  it  had  been  received  with  apparent  satisfaction, 
some  of  the  courtiers  who  were  opposed  to  Anselm  per- 
suaded the  king  that  this  sum  was  too  small,  and  he  de- 
manded a  thousand  instead  of  five  hundred  pounds. 
Anselm  refused,  on  the  ground  that  by  giving  so  great  a 
sum  he  would  incur  the  suspicion  of  having  obtained  the 
primacy  by  simony,  and  the  king  dismissed  him  in  anger.f 
This  first  quarrel  with  the  king  was  almost  immediately 
followed  by  another,  arising  out  of  the  primate's  urgent 

*  AnBelmi  Epist.  lib.  2,  p.  51» 

t  Eadmer»  p.  13.    Hasse,  pp.  293,  394. 


S4  ANSBLM.  [Bom  10S3. 

representations  of  the  necessity  of  discontinuing  and  re- 
pairing the  injuries  which  William  Rufiis  was  inflicting 
upon  the  Churchy  and  of  enforcing  discipline.  Anselm 
now  felt  the  uneasiness  of  his  position^  and  looked  back 
with  regret  to  the  tranqxdllity  of  his  abbacy :  yet  amid  the 
persecutions  to  which  he  was  at  this  time  subjected  he 
found  leisure  from  his  secular  occupations  to  write  his  trea- 
tise jye  Incamaiione  Pi?rM,  which  he  dedicated  to  the  pope.* 
On  the  king's  return  from  Normandy  in  November 
1094,  Anselm  repaired  to  court  to  request  his  permission 
to  risit  Rome  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  the  pallium 
of  Pope  Urban  II.  At  this  time  the  succession  to  the 
papal  chair  was  disputed  by  two  candidates.  King  Wil- 
liam burst  into  a  violent  passion  when  he  heard  the  name 
of  Urban,  declared  that  he  had  not  acknowledged  him  as 
pope,  and  that  it  was  not  the  custom  for  any  one  to  be 
acknowledged  as  pope  in  England  without  the  king's 
consent.t  Anselm  refused  to  yield  this  point,  and  re- 
ferred it  for  more  mature  consideration  at  a  fuller  as- 
sembly of  the  prelates  and  barons,  which  was  accordingly 
held  at  Rockingham,  on  the  11th  of  March;  and  the 
debate  was  prolonged  through  two  days.  Nearly  all  the 
bishops,  headed  by  William  bishop  of  Durham,  sided 
with  the  king,  and  a  few  of  the  secular  barons  only  plead- 
ed in  favour  of  the  primate.  The  proceedings  were  violent 
and  noisy.  It  was  decided  to  be  a  breach  of  allegiance  to 
the  crown  to  acknowledge  Urban  as  pope,  and  Anselm 
was  himself  treated  with  rudeness.  At  the  conclusion  of 
the  meeting  Anselm  requested  permission  to  retire  to  the 

*  Eadmeri  Vit.  Anselm.  p.  14. 

t  At  ille  ad  nomen  Urbani  turbatus,  dixit  se  ilium  pro  papa  non  tenere, 
nee  scue  conmetcuttBif  esse  at  absque  sua  eleotiotie  alievi  liceret  in  regno  suo 
papam  nominare.  Eadmer,  de  Vit.  Ansel,  p.  17.  Conf.  Eadm.  Hist.  Novor. 
p.  57.  (?).  CoDsaetndo  regni  mei  est  a  patre  meo  instituta,  at  nuUus  pr«eter 
Ucentiam  regis  appelletur  papa.    TT,  Malmsb.  p.  ?19. 


Died  1109.']  ANSELM.  S5 

continent,  which,  after  many  protnises  and  delays,  the 
king  refused.     The  monkish  writers,  who  were  favourable 
to  Anselm,  follow  Eadmer  in  accusing  all  the  English  pre- 
lates of  being  influenced  in  their  conduct  by  mercenary 
motives ;  a  charge  which  does  not  appear  to  be  supported 
by  other  circumstances,  or  by  their  individual  characters. 
The  excitement  caused  by  these  proceedings  had  scarcely 
subsided,  when  a  royal  ordinance  suddenly  appeared  ac- 
knowledging Urban  II.  as  pope.    The  king  had  sent  two 
messengers  to  Rome,  and  by  promises  and  gifts  having 
made  his  peace  with   the   pope,  the  latter  sent  back  a 
legate  with  the  pallium,   which  Anselm  was  obliged  to 
receive  through  the  king's  medication.     A   reconciliation 
was  at  the  same  time  effected,  and  Anselm  was  allowed  to 
remain  in  peace  during  the  rest  of  the  year.*     This  peace 
lasted  during  the  following  year  (l096),  king  William  be- 
ing occupied  with  the  affairs  of  Normandy :  but  new  causes 
of  dispute  arose  on  his  return  in  the  February  of  1097. 
When,  after  the  successful  termination  of  an  expedition 
against  the  turbulent  Welshmen,  Anselm  was   repairing 
to  court  for  the  purpose  of  urging  the  necessity  or  reform- 
ing the  church,  he  was  arrested  on  the  road  by  an  angry 
letter,  in  which  the  king  accused  him  of  intentionally  send- 
ing a  smaller  number  of  soldiers  than  was  due  from  him  as 
archbishop,  and  thus  endangering  the  affairs  of  the  state. 
Anselm  returned  no  answer  to  this  charge,  but,  after  an 
angry   interview  with  William,  he  obtained  a  reluctant 
licence  to  go  to  Rome.     He  proceeded  immediately,  ac- 
companied by  two  or  three  of  his  monks,  to  Dover,  where 
he  was  detained  fifteen  days  by  contrary  weather.     During 
his  stay  at  Dover  he  was  placed  under  the  surveillance  of 

*  Serena  pads  tranquillitafi  toto  iUo  anno  ab  animo  Anselmi  curas  depolit, 
et  bononim  hominum  le^aTit  sollicitadines.  W.  Malmsb.  De  Gest.  Pont, 
lib.  i.  p,  220. 


56  ANSBLM.  IBom  1033. 

one  of  the  king^s  clerks,  named  William  de  Warelwast,  and 
when,  at  the  end  of  October,  1097,  he  went  on  ship-board, 
he  was  subjected  to  the  further  indignity  of  having  his 
baggage  brought  out  on  the  beach  and  publicly  searched.* 
Anselm  landed  at  Witsand,  and  proceeded  immediately 
to  the  monastery  of  St.  Bertin,  where  he  remained  five 
days.     He  then  continued  his  route  through  Flanders  and 
France  to  Cluny,  amid  the  most  extravagant  and  joyful 
congratulations  of  the  population  through  whose  country 
he  passed  ;  so  that  his  progress  resembled  more  a  triumphal 
march  than  the  flight  of  a  persecuted  fugitive.     His  only 
companions  were  two  English  monks,  Baldwin  and  Ead- 
mer,  to  the  latter  of  whom  we  owe  the  history  of  his 
troubles.    Anselm  arrived  at  Cluny  the  third  day  before 
Christmas,  and  met  there   his   friend   Hugh  bishop   of 
Lyons,  whom  he  accompanied  to  that  city.     In  the  middle 
of  March,  1098,  Anselm  quitted  Lyons  on  his  way  to 
Rome,  where  he  was  received  by  the  Pope  with  the  greatest 
marks  of  distinction.     After  a  stay  of  only  ten  days  at 
Rome,  the  unusual  heat  of  the  weather  afforded  him  an 
excuse  for  visiting  one  of  his  old  scholars,  John  abbot  of 
Telesi,  near  the  confluence  of  the  rivers  Galore  and  Vol- 
tumo,and  the  heat  being  there  scarcely  less  oppressive  than 
at  Rome,  he  subsequently  retired  to  a  small  farm  belonging 
to  the  abbot  on  the  summit  of  a  mountain,  where  he  re- 
signed himself  to  the  same  contemplative  life  which  he  had 
formerly  led  at  Bee.     In  this  solitary  spot,  which  was 
known  by  the  name  of  Sclavia,  Anselm  finished  his  treatise 
entitled    Cur  Deus  homo?  which  had  been  commenced 
amid  his  troubles  in  England.     In  May  he  visited  Roger 
earl  of  Sicily  in  his  camp  before  Capua,  and  was  present 
during  part  of  the  siege  of  that  place.    After  its  surrender, 

*  Eadmer,  Vit.  Anselm.  p.  19.    W.  Malmsb.  pp.  220,  221.    Eadmer, 
Hist.  Not. 


Died  1109.]  ANSELM.  57 

early  in  June^  he  accompanied  the  pope  to  Aversa.  Anselm 
took  this  opportunity  of  requesting  to  be  permitted  to  re- 
sign his  archbishopric ;  but  the  pontiff  refused  to  accede  to 
his  request,  represented  to  him  the  pusillanimity  of  desert- 
ing his  flock^  and  urged  him  to  return,  requesting  him  how- 
ever to  attend  the  council  of  fiari  against  the  schismatic 
Greeks  in  October,  where  he  should  hear  his  final  deter- 
mination. Anselm  spent  the  intervening  time  in  retire- 
ment at  Sclavia ;  and,  after  distinguishing  himself  at  Bari 
by  his  eloquent  defence  pf  the  Romish  church  against  the 
Greeks,  returned  with  the  pope  to  Rome,  where  he  re- 
mained about  six  months,  and  was  present  at  the  council 
held  there  for  the  regulation  of  discipline,  April  24,  1099, 
and  the  day  after  the  conclusion  of  the  council  he  left 
Rome  and  returned  to  Lyons.  He  awaited  here  the  result 
of  the  pope's  expostulations  with  the  English  king ;  but 
Urban  died  in  the  mean  time  on  the  29th  of  July,  1099,  an 
event  which  lengthened  the  period  of  Anselm's  exile ;  and 
he  was  still  residing  at  Lyons  when  in  the  beginning  of 
August,  1100,  news  arrived  of  the  sudden  death  of  William 
Rufus.  During  his  residence  at  Lyons  Anselm  wrote 
several  of  his  works.* 

On  the  accession  of  Henry  I.  Anselm  was  immediately 
recalled  and  received  into  favour,  for  the  king  was  obliged 
to  conciliate  the  favour  of  the  church,  as  a  support  against 
the  adherents  of  his  brother.  Anselm  had,  however, 
now  become  the  unflinching  champion  of  the  temporal 
power  of  the  church  of  Rome,  and  he  was  very  soon 
dragged  into  new  disputes.  It  had  been  customary  for 
the  prelates  of  the  church  to  receive  the  ring  and  crozier, 
by  which  the  temporalities  of  the  see  were  understood  to 

*  Eadmer,  Vit.  Anaelmi,  pp.  80—33.  Hist.  Novor.  pp.  65—74.  W. 
Malmsb.  pp.  282-^984.  Hasse,  Anselm  yon  Canterbury,  book  u.  chap.  5, 
pp.  S^B'-SSZ. 


58  ANSELSt.  [Bom  lOfi^. 

be  conveyed,  from  th^  hands  of  the  sovereign ;  but  the 
pope  had  been  long  endeavouring  to  take  this  investiture 
out  of  the  hands  of  the  Seculat  prince,  and  it  had  been 
decided  in  the  council  of  Rome  in  1099  that  any  layman 
who  should  presume  to  graht  such  investiture,  Or  the  priest 
who  might  accept  it,  should  thereby  incur  the  sentence 
of  excommunication.  The  real  question  was,  whether 
the  clergy  should  hold  their  estates,  and  be  the  subjects,  of 
the  king  or  of  the  pope.  A  few  days  after  his  return,  the 
king  required  Anselm  to  make  the  usual  homage  for  his 
archbishopric.  Anselm  referred  the  king  to  the  decision 
of  the  Roman  council,  and  met  his  demand  by  an  absolute 
refasal.  The  matter  was  referred  to  the  new  pope,  Pasca- 
cius  II.,  who  decided  against  the  king.  But  Henry  was 
resolute  in  opposing  this  invasion  ot  the  rights  of  the 
crown,  and,  after  every  attempt  had  been  made  to  over- 
come the  scruples  of  the  primate,  it  was  at  last  resolved 
that  he  should  repair  to  Rome  in  person,  where  he  found 
the  king's  messenger,  who  had  arrived  before  him,  and 
who  made  an  unavailing  effort  fo  obtain  from  the  pope 
the  concession  of  the  right  of  investiture.  It  was  inti- 
mated to  Anselm,  as  he  was  returning  from  Rome,  that  he 
would  not  be  received  in  England  unless  he  rendered  the 
same  allegiance  to  his  sovereign  which  had  been  yielded 
by  his  predecessors,  and  he  again  sought  an  asylum  at 
Lyons.  The  king  thereupon  seized  the  temporalities  of 
the  see  of  Canterbury. 

Anselm  remained  at  Lyons  during  the  whole  of  1104 
and  the  first  months  of  the  year  1105  ;  but  towards  the 
summer  of  the  latter  year  he  accompanied  Adela  countess 
of  Blois  to  meet  king  Henry  in  Normandy,  where  he  was  re- 
ceived into  favour  and  restored  to  his  rights,  although  his 
return  to  England  was  delayed  for  different  reasons,  and  he 
retired  to  Bee.    The  dispute  between  the  king  and  the 


Died  1109.]  ANSfiLM.  59 

pope  was  at  length  set  at  rest  by  mutual  concession,  the 
latter  yielding  to  the  secular  prince  the  right  of  exacting 
homage  but  not  of  investing.  Anselm  returned  to  Eng- 
land in  the  autumn  of  1 106,  and  employed  himself  zealously 
and  effectually  in  the  reform  of  many  abuses  which  had 
crept  into  the  church  during  his  troubles,  and  which  occu- 
pied the  remaining  years  of  his  life.  On  the  24th  of  May, 
1108,  a  council  was  held  at  London  for  the  enforcing  of 
discipline.  The  year  following  Ansdm  appears  to  have 
been  chiefly  employed  in  writing :  he  composed  at  this 
time  his  tract  De  Voluntaie  and  the  treatise  De  Concordia 
prmscientim  et  pradestinationis  et  graiuB  Dei  cum  libero 
arbitrio,  and  was  commencing  a  new  work  De  origine 
amnuB  when  death  put  a  stop  to  his  laboiurs.  He  died  of 
a  lingering  illness,  attended  by  a  distaste  for  all  kinds  of 
nourishment,  on  the  21st  of  Aprils  1109^  in  the  seventy- 
sixth  year  of  his  age5  after  having  held  the  see  of  Canter- 
bury sixteen  years.  He  was  buried  in  his  cathedral,  at 
the  head  of  his  friend  and  predecessor  Lanfranc.^ 

Anselm  was  equal  to  Lanfranc  in  learning,  and 
far  exceeded  him  in  piety.  In  his  private  life  he  was 
modest,  humble,  and  sober  in  the  extreme.  He  was 
obstinate  only  in  defending  the  interests  of  the  church  of 
Rome,  and,  however  we  may  judge  the  claims  themselves, 
we  must  acknowledge  that  he  supported  them  from  con- 
scientious motives.  Reading  and  contemplation  were 
the  favourite  occupations  of  his  life^  and  even  the  time 
required  for  his  meals,  which  were  extremely  frugal,  he 
employed  in  discussing  philosophical  and  theological 
questions.f      By  his  rare  genius  he  did  much  towards 

*  The  history  of  the  last  nine  years  of  the  life  of  Anselm  is  g:iYeii  by 
Eadmer,  Vit.  Anselm.  pp.  24—26,  and  more  fully  in  the  Hist.  Novor.  pp« 
75-.103.    W.  Mahnsb.  pp.  224—229.     Howie,  book  ii.  chap.  6—11. 

t  Eadmer,  Vit.  Anselm.  p.  15,  who  adds.  Cum  vero  absentibos  hospitiboB 
priyatim  coin  fm  cderet;  et  nulla  qusesiio  9piritualis  cnjusris  ex  parte  pro- 


60  AN8BLM.  [Bom  103:^. 

bringing  metaphysics  into  repute.  He  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  a  new  school  of  theology,  which  was  free  from  the 
servile  character  of  the  older  writers,  who  did  little  more 
than  collect  together  a  heap  of  authorities  on  the  subjects 
which  they  treated.  The  Monologium  and  the  Pros- 
logium  are  admirable  specimens  of  abstract  reasoning. 
His  reading  was  extensive,  and  his  style  is  clear  and 
vigorous.  The  following  extract  from  the  first  of  tlie 
treatises  just  mentioned  will  serve  as  a  specimen. 

Qitod  ilia  ratio  rit  qHtcdam  rerum  loeuti    t»icut/aber  dicii  print  apud  se 

quodfacturui  est. 

Ilia  autem  forma  renuDy  quse  in  ejus  ratione  res  creandas  pnecedebat, 

quid  aliud  est  qoam  reram  qiuedam  in  ipsa  ratione  locutio  ;  yeluti  cum  faber 

facturus  aliquod  sun  artis  opus  prius  illud  intra  se  didt  mentis  conceptione  ? 

Mentis  autem  sive  rationis  locutionem  hie  intelligo,  non  cum  voces  rerum 

significatiTB  cogitantur ;  sed  cum  res  ipsss  ve\  fiiturse  vel  jam  ezistentes  acie 

cogitationis  in  mente  conspiciuntur.     Frequenti  namque  usu  cognoscitur  quia 

rem  unam  tripliciter  loqui  possumns.    Ant  enim  res  loquimar  signis  sensibi- 

libus,  id  est,  quae  sensibus  corporeis  sentiri  possunt  sensibiliter  utendo ;  aut 

eadem  signa,  quae  foris  sensibilia  sunt,  intra  nos  insensibiliter  oogitando ; 

aut  nee  sensibiliter,  nee  insensibiliter  his  signis  utendo  ;  sed  res  ipsas,  vel 

corporum  imaginatione,  vel  rationis  intellectn,  pro  rerum  ipsarum  diver- 

sitate,  intus  in  nostra  mente  dicendo.    Aliter  namque  hominem  dioo,  cum  eum 

hoc  nomine,  quod  est  homo»  significo ;  aliter  cum  idem  nomen  tacens  cogito  : 

aliter  cum  eum  ipsum  hominem  mens,  aut  per  corporis  imaginem,  aut  per  ra- 

tionem  intuetur ;  per  corporis  quidem  imaginem,  ut  cum  ejos  sensibilem 

figuram  imaginatur :  per  rationem  vero,  ut  cum  universalem  ejus  essentiam, 

quse  est,  animal  rationale  mortale  cogitat.     Hee  vero  tres  loquendi  varie- 

tates  singulse  verbis  sui  generis  constant :  sed  illius,  quam  tertiam  et  ulti- 

mam  posui,  locutionis  verba,  cum  de  rebus  non  ignoratis  sunt,  naturalia 

sunt,  et  apud  omnes  gentes  sunt  eadem.    Et  quoniam  omnia  alia  verba 

propter  htec  sunt  inventa :  ubl  ista  sunt,  nullum  aliud  verbum  est  neces- 

sarium  ad  rem  cognoscendam ;   ut    ubi   ista  esse  non   possunt,  nullum 

aliud  est  utile  ad  rem  ostendendam.     Possunt  etiam  non  absurde  dici  tanto 

veriora,  quanto  magis  rebus,  quarum  sunt  verba,  similia  sunt,  et  eas  ex- 

pressius  significant ;  ezceptis  namque  rebus  illis,  quibus  ipsis  utimur  pro  no- 

minibus  suis  ad  easdem  significandas,  ut  sunt  qusedam  voces,  velut  A  vo- 

calls :  exceptis,  inquam,  his,  nullum  aliud  verbum  sic  videtur  rei  simile, 

cujuB  est  verbum,  aut  sic  eam  exprimit,  quomodo  ilia  similitudo  quse  in  acie 

diret,  praelibato  potios  quam  sumpto  cibo  mox  cessabat,  lectionique  int^n- 
dens  manducantes  expectabat. 


Died  1109.]  anselm.  61 

mentis  rem  ipsam  cogitantis  exprimitur.  lUud  igitur  jure  dicendum  est 
maxime  propriam  et  principale  rei  verbum.  Quapropter  si  nulla  de  qnalibet 
re  locutio  tantum  propinqnat  rei,  quantum  ilia  qus  hnjusmodi  verbis  con- 
stat ;  nee  aliquid  aliud  tarn  simile  rei  vel  future,  yel  jam  ezistenti  in  ratione 
alicujus  potest  esse :  non  immerito  yideri  potest  apud  summam  substantiami 
talem  rerum  locutionem  et  fuisse,  antequam  essent,  ut  per  eam  fierent,  et 
esse,  cum  facta  sunt,  ut  per  eam  sciantur. 

The  published  writings  of  Anselm  are  * 

1.  The  Monologion,  a  metaphysical  treatise,  in  which 
Anselm  attempts  to  establish  by  abstract  reasoning  the 
existence  of  God,  his  attributes,  &c.  He  submitted  this 
work  to  the  judgment  of  Lanfranc,  before  he  ventured  to 
publish  it. 

2.  The  Proslogion,  in  which  he  undertakes  to  prove  the 
existence  of  God  by  one  single  continued  argument.t 

3.  The  answer  to  Gaunilo,  a  monk  of  Marmoutier,  who 
had  criticised  the  Proslogion  and  espoused  the  cause  of  the 
insipiens  (whom  Anselm  had  introduced  as  his  imaginary 
opponent)  against  Ansehn's  arguments.  In  this  tract  he 
enlarges  and  explains  some  of  his  arguments  which  had 
been  misunderstood. 

4.  On  the  Trinity  and  the  Incarnation,  a  controversial 
treatise  against  the  celebrated  philosopher  Roscelin. 

5.  On  the  Procession  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  another  con- 
troversial treatise,  in  which  he  collected  the  arguments  he 
had  employed  in  the  council  of  Bari  against  the  Greeks, 
who  denied  that  the  Holy  Ghost  proceeded  from  the  Son. 
Anselm  is  said  to  have  written  this  book  between  1100 
and  1103,  at  the  request  of  Hildebert  bishop  of  Mans. 

6.  A  dialogue  in  twenty-eight  chapters  De  casu  Diabolic 
treating  chiefly  on  the  subject  of  the  origin  of  evil. 

7.  A  treatise  entitled  Cur  Deus  Homo?  in  two  books, 

*  A  good  detailed  account  of  Anselm's  writings  is  giTen  in  the  Hist.  Lit. 
de  Prance,  vol.  ix.  pp.  416—465. 

t  Coepi  mecum  queerere  si  forte  posset  inveniri  unum  argumentum  quod 
nuUo  alio  ad  se  probandum  quam  se  solo  indigeret.     Prsef.  in  Proslog. 


02  AN8BL1I.  [B&m  1033. 

written  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between  the  author  and 
Boso  abbot  of  Bee,  for  the  purpose  of  showing  the  neces- 
sity of  the  Christian  scheme  of  redemption,  and  proving 
the  resurrection  of  the  body.  It  was  begun  in  England 
and  finished  in  Italy. 

8.  A  treatise  in  twenty-nine  chapters  on  the  Conception 
of  the  Virgin  and  on  Original  Sin,  composed  at  Lyons, 
and  addressed  to  the  same  abbot  Boso  who  appears  in  the 
Cur  Deu8  Homo  ? 

9.  A  dialogue  De  Veriiate  between  a  master  and  his 

disciple. 

10.  A  treatise  De  f^oluntate,  first  published  by  Gerbe- 
ron,  who  found  it  without  the  name  of  the  author,  but 
with  strong  internal  proofs  that  it  was  a  work  of  Anselm. 

11.  A  dialogue  De  Libero  Arbitrio. 

12.  The  treatise  De  Concordia  prascientue  et  prcsdes- 
tinationis  et  gratus  Dei  cum  libero  arbitrio.  This  was 
Anselm's  last,  and  perhaps  his  most  profound,  work,  in 
which  he  undertakes  to  prove,  first,  that  prescience  is  not 
repugnant  to  free-will,  secondly,  that  predestination  does 
not  exclude  free-will,  and,  thirdly,  that  grace  does  not  ex- 
clude free-will. 

13.  A  short  tract  Defermento  et  azymo, 

14  and  15.  Two  brief  treatises  on  Priests  who  keep 
Concubines,  and  on  Marriage  between  certain  degrees  of 
affinity,  questions  then  agitated  in  England. 

16.  A  dialogue  on  Dialectics,  entitled  De  Grammatico. 

17.  A  very  short  treatise  De  Voluntate  Dei. 

18.  Sixteen  homilies. 

19.  A  treatise  on  the  Contempt  of  Temporal  Things. 

20.  Another  short  tract  in  question  and  answer  entitled 
Admonitio  morienti» 

21.  Twenty-one  Meditations,  of  some  of  which  the 
authenticity  is  doubtful. 


Died  1109.]  ansblu.  63 

22.  A  collection  of  serenty-four  prayers. 

23.  Hymns,  and  a  Psalter  of  the  Virgin,  which  are  pro- 
bably erroneously  attributed  to  Anselm. 

24.  A  large  collection  of  miscellaneous  letters,  many  of 
which  afford  valuable  materials  for  the  history  of  the 
time. 

25.  His  Constitutions. 

In  addition  to  these,  the  writers  of  the  Histoire  Litteraire 
de  France  enumerate  no  less  than  thirty- six  treatises 
which  have  been  wrongly  attributed  to  Anselm.  Among 
these  we  may  plac^  the  poem  De  CofUemptu  Mtmdi, 
which  was  the  work  of  Alexander  Neckham.  Some  ad- 
ditions might  still  be  made  from  manuscripts  to  his 
authentic  works,  particularly  to  the  Homilies,  Meditations, 
and  Letters ;  and  perhaps  some  of  Anselm*s  writings  are 
entirely  lost,  such  as  the  poem  on  the  death  of  Lanfranc, 
mentioned  by  Ordericus  Vitalis. 

BdiiUmt. 


Opera  et  tractatut  beati  Anielmi  archiepUcopi  Cantnarien.  ordinia  aancti 
Benedict!.  At  the  end,  Opera  aancti  Anaelmi  que  ii  soripsit  hoc  libro 
qnam  salutari  sidere  clauduntnr.  Anno  xp'i  .M.cocclzzzjg.  die  vero 
Ticeaimaseptima  martii  Nurenberge.  per  Caspar  Hochfeder:  opifecem 
mira  arte  ac  dilij^ntia  impresaa.  fol.  This  volume  containa  the  Duo 
libri  cur  Deua  homo  ;  liber  unua  de  incarnatione  verbi ;  De  oonceptn 
▼irginali  et  peccato  originali ;  Declaratio  ciqnadam  de  eodem ;  Fh>i« 
logion ;  Monologion ;  De  processione  apiritua  aancti  contra  Gnecos ; 
Dyalogua  de  caan  Dyaboli ;  Pro  inaipiente ;  Contra  inaipientem ;  De 
diveraitate  aaeramentonim ;  De  fermento  et  aaimo ;  Expoaitionea  mem- 
brorum  et  actunm  Dei  et  Teatimentonuu ;  De  rolantate ;  De  eoncordia 
prsBcientiK  et  prcdeatinationia  et  gr^sa  Dei  cnm  libero  arbitrio ;  De 
libero  arbitrio ;  De  veritate ;  De  aimilitudinibua ;  De  menanratione 
crucia  {  Meditationea  magnse  Anaelmi ;  Meditatio  ejoadem  de  redemp- 
tione  generia  human! ;  De  paaaione  Domini ;  Speculum  eyangelici  aer- 
monia;  Uomelia,  lutraTit  Jeaua  in  quoddam  caatellumi  Epiatol» 
Sancti  Anaelmi ;  De  imagine  mundi. 

Thia  edition  waa  reprinted  in  1494. 

temonea  tres  de  paaaioiu  Chriati.  Argeatie,  M.Mec.zon.  4to.  At  the 
end,  Big.  &  4t  ii  i^dMf  ABMlmi  derQtiiiiau  d»  puiioiie  Jmu  Chriitl 


64  ANSELM.  [Bom  1033. 

queretis  de  gloriosisBime    b't'e  Marie  V'guiis   respondent*,  dyalogus 
incipit  feliciter. 

Opuscula  beati  Anselmi  archiepiscopi  Cantuariensis  ordinis  sancti  benedicti. 
fol.  without  name  of  place  or  datCi  It  contains  two  tracts  not  in  the 
edition  of  1491|  De  miseria  hominis,  and  De  ezcellentia  Virginis  Maris. 
It  also  contains  an  index.  There  was  another  edition  of  the  Opuscula 
without  date. 

Omnia  diyi  Anselmi  Cantuariensis  archiepiscopi  theologomm  omnium  sui 
temporis  facile  principis  Opuscula,  Antonii  Democharis  Ressonni  in- 
dustria  nunc  primum  restituta.  Parisiisy  1544.  fol.  This  contains,  in 
addition  to  the  previous  editions,  the  tracts  De  similitudinibus,  and  De 
▼oluntate  DeL     Reprinted  in  1549. 

D.  Anselmi  Cantuariensis  archiepiscopi,  theologorum  omnium  sui  temporis 
feicile  principis,  nemlnique  eorum  qui  post  eum  fuerunt  vel  sanctitate, 
vel  eruditione,  yel  eloquentia  secundi»  luculentissimae  in  omnes  sanc- 
tissimi  Pauli  apostoli  epistolas  et  aliquot  Evangelia  enarrationes.  Has 
enarrationes  alii  D.  Hervco  ascribunt.     Parisiis,  1544.  fol. 

Opera  Venet.  1549.  This  edition  appears  to  have  been  reprinted  at  the 
same  place  in  1568. 

Anselmi  Elucidarium.    Paris,  1560. 

Opera,  Colon.  1560.  fol.  and  again,  Colon.  1573.  fol. 

B.  Anselmi  Vita  et  Opera  iv.  tomis,  ubi  ejus  Epistole  adject»  sunt  et  notis 
illustrates,  per  Joh.  Piccardum.  Col.  Agr.  1612.  More  complete  than 
any  of  the  preceding  editions. 

B.  Anselmi  Opera  extraneis  in  Sacros  Libros  Commentariis  exonerata,  re- 
censuit  et  edidit  Theoph.  Raynaudus.    Lugd.  1630.  3  yoIs.  fol. 

S.  Anselmi  Cantuariensis  archiepiscopi  de  Felicitate  Sanctorum  dissertatio. 
Exscriptore  Eadinero  Anglo  canonico  regulari.  Editore  Joanne  Bapt. 
de  Machault,  Parisino,  Soc.  Jesu.     Parisiis,  1639.  8to. 

The  dialogue  De  libero  arbitrio,  was  published  in  the  third  volume  of  the 
Opuscula  of  St.  Augustine,  4to.    Lovan.  1648. 

Divi  Aurelii  Augustini  Hippon.  episcopi  Meditationes,  Soliloquia,  et  Ma- 
nuale.  Meditationes  B.  Anselmi,  cum  tractatu  de  humani  generis  re- 
demptione,  &c.     Coloni»  Agrippinse,  1649.     16mo. 

D'Acherii  Spicilegium,  4to.  1653—77,  tom.  iii.  p.  24.  Second  Edit.  Paris, 
1723,  fol.  vol.  i.  pp.  443 — 449.  Sancti  Anselmi  Cantuariensis  archie- 
piscopi tractatus  asceticus,  4to.  tom.  iii.  p.  121,  tom.  ix.  pp.  116 — 123. 
Second  ed.  tom.  iii.  p.  433 — 435.     Some  letters  of  Anselm. 

Usher,  Veterum  Epistolarum  Hibernicarum  Sylloge.  4 to.  Dublin.  1632.  pp. 
88 — 99.     Six  letters  of  Anselm. 

Sancti  Anselmi  ex  Beccensi  abbate  Cantuariensis  Archiepiscopi  Opera  .... 
labore  ac  studio  D.  Gabrielis  Gerberon  monachi  congregationis  S. 
Mauri  ad  MSS.  fidem  expurgata  et  aucta.  Secunda  editio,  correcta 
et  aucta.  Lutetia  Parisiorum,  1721 ,  fol.  The  first  edition  was  pub- 
lished  at  Paris  in  1675.  A  third  was  printed  at  Venice,  1744,  in  2  vols, 
folio. 
The  works  of  St.  Anselm,  more  or  less  complete,  will  also  be  found  in  dif- 
ferent collections  printed  under  the  title  of  Bibliotheca  Patnun. 


Died  ]  109.]  anselh.  65 

DranslaiMm*. 

A  French  translation  of  the  Meditationi  of  Anselm  was  pnblished  in  1571  > 
and  reprinted  in  1588,  1603,  and  1643. 

Another  French  Transktion  of  the  Meditations,  by  Cerisins,  ^>peared  in 
1650.  A  German  translation  of  the  Meditations  had  been  printed  at 
Lunenburg  in  1638. 

The  Monnt  of  Olives :  or.  Solitary  DeTOtions.  By  Henry  Vaughan, 
Silurist.  With  an  excellent  discourse  of  the  blessed  state  of  Man  in 
Glory,  written  by  the  most  rererend  and  holy  fkther  Anselm,  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  and  now  done  into  English.    London,  1653.    ISmo. 

A  third  French  translation  of  the  Meditations  was  published  anonymously  in 
1700. 

Pbus  Breathings.  Being  the  Meditations  of  St.  Augustine,  his  Treatise  of 
the  Love  of  God,  Soliloquies,  and  Manual,  to  which  are  added  Select 
Contemplations  from  St.  Anselm  and  St.  Bernard.  Made  English  by 
George  Stanhope,  D.D.  chaplain  in  ordinary  to  his  Majesty.  London, 
1701.     8yo. 

A  translation  into  French  of  the  treatise  Cur  Deu$  homo  ?  has  been  recently 
published  in  Paris. 


VOL.  IL 


66 


Section  ii.*— Reign  of  Henry  I. 

HENRY  I. 

King  Henry  I.  is  said  to  have  received  the  surname 
or  title  of  Beauclerc  (Bellus  clerictAs)  on  account  of  his 
learning  and  literary  taste.  He  was  a  scholar  of  Lan- 
franc^  and  must,  therefore,  have  received  a  superior 
education*  That  he  studied  at  Cambridgei  or  at  Oxford, 
and  took  the  degree  of  master  of  arts  there,  is  but  the 
legend  of  a  later  date.*  The  fact  of  his  having  published 
a  code  of  laws  is  certainly  no  proof  of  the  king's  Uterary 
talents,  although  Leland  for  this  work  has  given  Henry 
a  place  among  the  learned  English  writers.  Bale  says 
that  he  wrote  ^^  Letters  to  Anselm,'^  probably  the  official 
letter  which  was  written  by  the  king's  order  to  recall  the 
primate  to  England.  The  abb^  de  la  Rue,  for  equally 
unsatisfactory  reasons,  placed  the  king  among  his  list  of 
Anglo-Norman  trouveres,  and  believed  him  to  have  been 
the  author  of  the  collection  of  Esopean  fables  alluded  to 
by  the  poetess  Marie  de  France,  and  of  an  Anglo-Norman 
poem  on  behaviour  at  table,  &c.  entitled  Le  Diciie 
d^Urbain,  The  first  of  these  works  more  probably  went 
under  the  name  of  Alfred  than  Henry,  and  has  been 
already  spoken  of  in  our  account  of  that  monarch.  The 
DictiS  (PUrbain  was  written  at  a  later  date;  it  is  not  in 
the  slightest  degree  probable  that  Henry  I.  was  its  author. 
M.  de  la  Rue  has  published  four  lines  of  an  anonymous 
Latin  poem,  entitled  Urbanus,  preserved  in  a  MS.  of  the 
BibUotheque  Royale  at  Paris  (No.  3718),  in  which  it  is 

*  I  believe  the  earliest  authority  for  this  statement  is  Rudbum's  Historyi 
in  Wharton,  Angl.  Sacr.  toL  i.  p.  ^3. 


nourished  lllO.']    wiluam  of  Chester.  67 

said  that  ^^  the  old  king  Henry  ^^  had  published  the  pre- 
cepts there  given ;  but  it  does  not  seem  dear  that  this 
appellation  belongs  to  Henry  I.  of  England^  or  that  the 
^^  documenta"  alluded  to  were  anything  more  than  the 
rules  of  behaviour  followed  in  the  household  of  the 
kings  and  of  the  great  barons  at  the  time  the  poem  was 
written^  which  may  have  been  established  in  the  form 
then  existing  by  this  king  :* 

Clerus  praecipue)  miles,  matrona,  puella, 
Qailibet  iflgenaiu  haec  senret  scripta  noTella ; 
Rex  yetus  Henricns  primo  dedit  hsec  docomenta 
lUepidis»  libroque  novo  scribniitar  In  uto. 


WILLIAM  OF  CHESTER- 

Very  little  is  known  of  William  of  Chester,  except 
that  he  was  the  fUend  of  Anselm.  The  writers  of  the 
Histoire  Litteraire  de  France  are  probably  correct  in  sup- 
posing him  to  have  been  a  native  of  Normandy  and  a  monk 
of  Bee,  where  he  appears  to  have  been  one  of  Anselm's 
disciples.  He  was,  perhaps,  one  of  the  colony  of  monks 
from  Bee  which  Anselm  established  at  Chester  in  1092.t 
It  is  evident  that  he  survived  Anselm,  but  it  is  not  at  all 
probable  that  he  was  the  same  person  who  was  elected 
abbot  of  St.  Werburg's  at  Chester  in  1131,  and  died  in 
1140,  as  Tanner  seems  to  intimate.  Wil^am  wrote  a 
poem  on  the  elevation  of  Anselm  to  the  see  of  Canter- 
bury, and  another  on  his  death,  in  Latin  elegiacs.  The 
letter  in  which  Anselm  acknowledges  the  receipt  of  the 

*  M.  de  la  Rue's  article  on  Henry  I.  will  be  found  in  hia  Eaaaia  Hlato- 
riqnes  ntr  lea  Bardes,  lea  Jonglenn,  et  les  TrouT^rea  Normands  et  Anglo* 
Normandfl,  vol.  ii.  pp.  33^40. 

t  Hiatf  lit.  de  Fhmos,  tom.  z.  p.  IS* 

f2 


68  GILBERT  CRISPIN.  [Died  1114. 

fonner  is  extant,*  as  well  as  the  poems  themselves. 
They  are  both  short.  The  elegy  commences  with  a  brief 
abstract  of  Anselm's  life;  the  following  lines  will  serve 
to  convey  an  idea  of  the  style  in  which  it  is  written  : 

?elix  ItalU  pne  cnnctifl  partibi»  orbis, 

QoB  meruit  talem  progennisse  ▼inun. 
Infelix  itemm  quae  talem  perdit  alumnum, 

lufelix  plane  pignoris  orba  sui. 
Tu  quoque  coenobium  quondam  Beccense  vigebaa, 

Dum  tuns  Anaelmus  dux  fuit  et  monachus ; 
Amiait  veterem  focies  tua  pene  decorem, 

Dum  tuus  Anselmua  desiit  ease  pater. 
Cantia,  tu  quondam  totum  veneranda  per  orbem 

Pnesulis  Anaelmi  tempore  aigna  dabas. 
Te  minor  orbia  erat ;  populos  tua  fama  per  omnes 

Fluzit  amica  bonia,  invidioaa  malia. 
Te  monachua,  clerua,  populuaque  docendus  adibat, 

Dum  tuna  Anaelmua  vizerat  ille  bonua. 

Edition. 

Staphani  Baluzii  Tntelenaia  Miacellanea,  noyo  ordine  digeata,  tomus  iv. 
Lucse,  1764,  fol.  p.  15,  Carmen  in  laudem  aancti  Anaelmi  arcbiepiscopi 
Cantuariensia.  p.  16,  Epicedion  in  obitum  ejusdem.  Probably  they 
were  taken  from  the  same  manuscript  which  was  formerly  in  the 
possession  of  Leland. 


GILBERT  CRISPIN. 

Gilbert  Crispin  was  one  of  the  most  distinguished  of 
the  monks  whom  Lanfranc  brought  into  England  from 
the  abbey  of  Bee.  He  was  of  a  noble  Norman  family, 
being  descended  from  Gilbert  count  of  Brienne,  who  had 
obtained  the  surname  of  Crispin,  or  Crespin,  from  his 
crisp  or  curly  hair.  His  father  placed  him  in  the  school 
of  Bee  at  a  very  early  age,  and  he  had  made  great  pro- 

*  Anaelmi  Epist.  lib.  iii.  ep.  34. 


Died  1\14,]  gilbert  Crispin*  69 

gress  in  all  branches  of  learning,  first  under  Lanfranc  and 
Herluin^  and  afterwards  under  Anselm^  when  Lanfranc 
brought  him  to  England^  and  made  him  abbot  of  West- 
minster. He  is  said  to  have  held  this  dignity  thirty-two 
years,  and  to  have  died  in  1114  or  11 17.* 

Gilbert  Crispin  appears  to  have  enjoyed  considerable 
reputation  as  a  writer.  His  most  celebrated  work  was  a 
treatise  against  the  Jews,  some  of  whom  he  is  said  to  have 
converted.  This  treatise^  dedicated  to  Anselm^  is  written 
in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between  a  Jew  and  a  Christian. 
In  the  following  lines  of  the  introductory  letter  to  Anselm, 
Gilbert  describes  the  occasion  on  which  this  book  was 
written. 

Patemitati  et  pradentise  vestrse  discutiendnm  mitto  Ubelliim,  quern  nuper 
scripei,  pagin»  commendana  quae  Judeeus  quidam  olim  meoum  disputans, 
contra  fidem  nostram  de  lege  sua  proferebat,  et  qusB  ego  ad  objecta  illius 
pro  fide  nostra  respondebam.  Nescio  unde  ortus,  sed  apud  Moguntiam 
litteris  educatus,  legis  et  litterarum  etiam  nostrarnm  bene  sciens  erat,  et 
exercitatum  in  scripturis  atque  disputationibus  contra  nos  ingenium  habebat. 
Plarimum  mihi  familiaris  seepe  ad  me  Teniebat,  turn  negotii  sui  causa,  turn 
me  yidendi  gratia :  quoniam  in  aliquibus  illi  multum  necessarius  eram :  et 
quotiens  conveniebamus,  mox  de  scripturis  ac  de  fide  nostra  sermonem 
amico  animo  habebamus.  Quadam  ergo  die  sotito  majus  mihi  et  illi  Deus 
otium  concessit ;  et  mox  unde  solebamus  inter  nos  quaestionem  cospimus. 
Et  quoniam  quae  opponebat  convenienter  satis  et  consequenter  opponebat, 
et  ea  quae  opposuerat  non  minus  convenienter  protequendo  explicabat,  nostra 
vero  responsio  vicino  satis  pede  ad  opposita  illius  respondebat  et  scriptu- 
rarum  «eque  testimonio  nitens  eadem  ipsi  concessu  fadlis  esse  videbatur  et 
approbanda,  rogaverunt  quidam  qui  aderant  ut  memorise  darem  nostram 
banc  disceptationem  fortasse  aliquibus  profnturam.  Scripsi  igitUTi  et  tadto 
mei  et  ipsius  nomine  scripsi  sub  persona  Judiei  cum  Christiano  de  fide  nostra 
disceptantisi  scriptumque  et  exaratum  hoc  opus  yestroe  transmitto  examl- 
nandum  censurse. 

The  only  other  work  of  this  writer  which  has  been 
printed  is  the  Life  of  Herluin,  first  abbot  of  Bee.  Most 
of  the  treatises  ascribed  by  Cave  and  others  to  Gilbert 
Crispin  belong  to  other  persons  of  the  name  of  Gilbert ; 

*  The  better  authorities  appear  to  be  in  fkvour  of  the  earlier  date.  8e% 
Tanner.  The  writers  of  the  Hist.  lit.  de  France  seem  inclined  to  place  his 
death  several  years  later,  but  their  evidence  is  not  satisfactory. 


\ 


70  T  VRGOT.  [Died  1115. 

the  comments  on  the  Bible  are  the  work  of  Gilbertus 
Universalis*  The  writer  of  the  article  on  Gilbert  in  the 
Hist.  lit.  de  France  states  erroneously  that  there  is  a  dia* 
logue  on  the  Procession  of  the  Holy  Spirit  by  Gilbert  of 
Westminster  in  the  Cottonian  Library.  The  same  bio* 
grapher*  quotes  the  following  titles  from  an  early  cata- 
logue of  books  giyen  to  the  abbey  of  Bee :  ^^  Contra  Judeeos 
liber  Gisleberti  Crispin!.  Item^  ejusdem  de  Simoniacis^ 
et  de  veritate  corporis  et  sanguinis  Domini»  Item^  ejus- 
dem sermo  de  dedicatione  ecdesiee.  Item,  homilia  ejus* 
dem  super :  Cum  vigilasset  Dominusi  Item,  ejus  epistolse 
tres."' 

Bditiotu, 

Beati  Lanfranci  •  •  opera  •  eTul^vIt  donmu  Lveas  Dacheriu.    Lut.  Par. 

1648,  fol.    Appendix,  pp.  3S— ^.     Vita  Mancti  et  glorioeisflmi  patris 

Uerluini .  •  authore  Gilberto  Crispiiie  abbate  Wettmoiiasterleiiii. 
Acta  Sanctomm  Ordinia  8.  Benedloti  .  .  .  Snciiliim  tI.  Pan  Seennda. 

Latedse  Pariiiomin,  1701,  fol.  pp.  340— ^55,  Vita  B.  Herioini  Bec- 

oenBie  abbatia  primi  et  eonditorie*    Attctore  Gialeberto  Crigpino  abbate 

WeatmonasterienBi,  ejus  dladpiilo. 
Sancti  Anselmi  opera,  fol.  Pariaiii,  1721.  pp.  512—544.    Disputatio  Jndsei 

cum  Cbrutiano  de  fide  Christiana,  aoripta  a  domno  Gisleberto  abbate 

Westmonaf  terii,  kactenns  inedHa. 


TURGOT. 

Among  the  earliest  historical  writers  after  the  Con-- 
quest  was  Turgot,  who  wrote  a  history  of  the  monastery 
of  Durham  from  the  first  settlement  of  the  monks  there 
to  his  own  time,  which  contains  valuable  notices  relating 
to  the  history  of  the  north  of  England  in  the  Anglo- 
Saxon  and  eariiest  Anglo-Norman  times.  We  first  hear 
of  Turgot  in  1074,  when  a  monk  named  Aldwin  quitted 
his  own  monastery  of  Winchelescombe  (or  Winchcomb) 

*  HUt,  Lit  de  Fr.  tom.  x,  p.  196. 


DiedlllB.']  TURGOt.  71 

in  Gloucestershire^  to  visit  some  of  the  monasteries  which 
had  been  injured  or  ruined  in  the  troubles  of  the  preceding 
age.    Aldwin  went  with  one  or  two  companions  to  Eve- 
sham^ York,  Newcastle^  Jarrow  or  Yarrow,  from  which 
latter  place  he  was  invited  by  bishop  Walcher  to  Durham. 
He  was  accompanied  from  Jarrow  to  Durham  by  Turgot, 
who  was  then  a  young  man  and  a  clerk,  but  not  a  monk.* 
Aldwin  and  Turgot  soon  rose  high  in  the  favour  of  Wal- 
cher, who  gave  to  them  and  their  companions  the  monas- 
tery of  Jarrow,  which  they  began  to  raise  from  its  ruins. 
The  monks,  however^  appear  not  to  have  agreed  well  in 
this  place;  and  a  party  of  them,  with  Aldwin  at  their 
head,  left  it  and  repaired  to  Melros.  Turgot  was  again  one 
of  Aldwin's  companions   on  this  occasion*    They  were 
here  persecuted  by  the  king  of  the  Scots^  and,  induced  by 
the  persuasions  and  threats  of  Walcher,  they  returned  to 
Durham^  and  the  bishop  settled  them  at  Wearmouth, 
which  also  they  raised  in  some  measure  from  its  ruins. 
Here  Turgot  received  the  tonsure  at  the  hands  of  Aldwin. 
In  1083,  after  Watcher's  death,  bishop  WiUiam  (his  suc- 
cessor) obtained  the  king's  licence  to  turn  out  the  secular 
canons  attached  to  his  cathedral,  and  introduce  monks  in 
their  place.    On  this  occasion  he  transferred  the  monks  of 
Jarrow  and  Wearmouth  to  Durham,  and  reduced  those 
two  ancient  houses  to  the  position  of  cells  to  his  larger 
house,  of  which  latter  he  made  Aldwin  the  first  prior. 
Aldwin  dying  in  1087,  Turgot,  who  enjoyed  the  favour  of 
his  bishop,  was  chosen  to  succeed  him,  and  as  prior  as- 
sisted at  the  foundation  of  the  new  monastery  in  1093. 
He  was  subsequently  made  archdeacon  of  the  diocese,  and 
in  1 109  he  was  elected  to  the  bishopric  of  St.  AndreVs^ 

*  At  Aldwiniu  de  Gyrnnensi  monasterio  egrediens,  comitem  itlneris  et 
propositi  in  eleiicati  adhnc  liabitu  Tnrgotnin  liabidt^  Sim.  Danelm.  Hist, 
de  DnndLm.  Eccles.    col.  45. 


72  TURGOT.  [Died  1115. 

which  he  held  till  1115^  when,  sick  and  aged,  and  dis- 
gusted with  the  treatment  he  received  from  the  Scottish 
king,  he  obtained  licence  to  resign  and  return  to  Durham, 
where  he  died  two  months  after  his  arrival,  at  the  begin- 
ing  of  September,  1115,* 

Turgot's  history  of  his  monastery  of  Durham  appears 
to  have  been  republished  about  fifty  years  afterwards  by 
Simeon  of  Durham,  who  put  his  own  name  to  it,  although  he 
made  scarcely  any  alterations  in  it,  and  did  not  even  con- 
tinue it^t  It  is  written  in  clear  and  simple  language.  The 
following  is  Turgot's  description  of  the  site  of  Durham,  at 
the  time  of  the  arrival  of  the  monks  of  Lindisfarne,  who 
had  escaped  from  the  Danes  with  the  body  of  their  saint. 

Comitans  Banctisdmi  patris  Cathberti  corpus  universas  populas  in 
Dunelmum,  locum  quidem  natura  munitnm  sed  non  fecile  habitabilem  in- 
Ycnit,  quoniam  densissima  undique  ailya  totum  occupaverat.  Tantum  in 
medio  plauicies  erat  non  grandis,  quam  arando  et  seminando  excolere  con- 
sueverant :  ubi  episcopus  Aldhunus  non  panram  de  lapide  postea  ecdesiam 
ereziti  aicut  in  consequentibus  apparebit.  Igitnr  priefotus  antistes  totius 
populi  auzilio  et  comitis  Northanimbrorum  Uhtredi  adjutorio  totam  eztirpana 
Bilvam  Buccidit,  ipsumque  locum  brevi  babitabilem  fecit.  Denique  a  flumine 
Coqued  usque  ad  Teisam  universa  populomm  multitude  tam  ad  hoc  opuB 
quam  ad  construendam  postmodum  ecdesiam  prompto  animo  accessit,  et 
donee  perficeretur  devota  insistere  non  cessavit.  Eradicata  itaque  silva,  et 
unicoique  mansionibus  sorte  distributis  presul  antedictus  an  ore  Christi  et 
sancti  Cuthberti  fervens,  ecdesiam  honesto  nee  paryo  opere  inchoavit,  et  ad 
perficiendam  omni  studio  intendit.  Interea  sanctum  corpus  de  ilia  quam 
superius  diximus  ecclesiola  in  aliam  translatum  que  alba  ecclesia  yocabatur, 
tribus  ibidem  annis  dnm  major  ecclesia  construeretur  requievit. 

*  This  information  is  gathered  from  the  brief  but  valuable  Annals  of 
Durham  printed  in  the  Monasticon,  vol.  i.  p.  235,  and  from  Turgot's  own 
history. 

f  It  was  printed  under  Simeon*s  name  by  Twysden.  See  the  article  on 
Simeon  in  the  present  volume.  A  fine  early  manuscript  of  Turgors  book  is 
in  the  firitish  Museum,  MS.  Cotton.  Faustina  A.  v.  A  learned  essay 
written  by  Sdden  to  prove  that  Turgot,  and  not  Simeon,  was  the  author,  is 
printed  in  Twysden.  Rudd,  who  published  a  new  edition,  endeavours  to 
confute  the  arguments  of  Selden,  and  the  question  still  seems  involved  in 
some  doubt.  It  may  be  observed  that  the  passages  quoted  by  Fordun  from 
Tuigot  are  not  found  in  the  History  of  Durham  attributed  to  him. 


Died  Ills.]        FLORENCB    OF  WOBCESTBB.  73 

Turgot  also  wrote  the  Life  of  St,  Margaret  queen  of 
Scotland^  probably  during  the  period  he  held  the  see  of 
St.  Andrew's:  it  was  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
Cottonian  library  which  unfortunately  perished  in  the 
fire.*  Bale  pretends  that  Turgot  also  wrote  a  history  of 
the  kings  of  Scotland^  a  life  of  king  Malcolm^  and  a 
history  of  his  own  time.  The  historian  Fordun  quotes 
frequently  from  Turgot's  writings. 


FLORENCE  OF  WORCESTER. 

The  first  general  historian,  or  rather  chronicler,  who 
wrote  in  England  after  the  Norman  conquest,  was  Flo- 
rence, a  monk  of  Worcester.  All  we  know  of  the  per- 
sonal history  of  this  writer  is,  that  he  died  on  the  fifth 
of  June  1 118,  and  that  he  was  esteemed  by  the  monks  of 
his  house  as  a  man  of  great  erudition  and  industry .f  Le- 
land  gives  an  exaggerated  estimate  of  his  character.  His 
chronicle,  which  commences  with  the  creation,  and  is  con- 
tinued to  the  year  of  his  death,  is  little  better  than  a  com- 
pilation from  the  chronicle  of  Marianus  Scotus,  and  from 
the  Saxon  Chronicle.  The  part  which  relates  to  our  own 
island  is  almost  a  literal  translation  from  the  latter  work. 
An  anonymous  continuation  of  the  chronicle  of  Florence 
from  lll8toll41isof  much  greater  value  than  the  chro- 
nicle itself.  The  account  of  events  which  occurred  in  the 
year  1083  will  furnish  an  example  of  Florence's  style,  and 

*  MS.  Cotton.  Tiberius  D.  iii.  This  life  is  quoted  by  Fordun,  Scoti- 
chron.  lib.  v.  c.  S3. 

f  His  continuator  says,  A.  1 118,  Nonis  Julii  obiit  dominns  Florentius 
Wigornensis  monachus.  Hujas  subtili  scientia  et  studiosi  laboris  industria, 
prieeminet  cunctis  hsec  Chronicarum  Chronica.  The  Worcester  Annals^ 
printed  in  Wharton,  Anglia  Sacra,  torn.  i.  p.  475,  give  the  same  date. 


74  FLORBNOB  OP  WORCSSTBR.       iDUd  lllS. 

may  be  compared  with  the  account  of  the  same  year  in 
the  Saxon  Chronicle.* 

1083.  Henricus  urbem  Romse  inliregit  et  oepit,  Wigbertam  in  sede  apoB- 
tolica  ooiutitait.  HUdebrandiu  Tero  Beneveiitam  adilt,  abi  «sque  ad  obitvm 
saum  dqjuit.  Henrioiu  rex  in  Tentonicain  patiiam  rediit.  Seditio  neftuida 
inter  monachos  et  indigne  nominandnm  abbatem  Tontanum  GlaatoniaB  facta 
est,  qnem  rex  Gnlielmns  de  monasterio  Cadomi,  nulla  pmdentia  instmctum, 
eidam  loco  abbatem  pivfeeerat.  Hie  inter  CKtera  stultitie  nue  opera, 
Gregoriannm  cantum  aspematus,  monachos  coepit  oompellere  nt  illo  relicto 
cujnsdam  Gnlielmi  Fescamnensis  cantum  discerent  et  cantarent.  Quod 
dnm  segre  acciperent,  quippe  qui  jam  tam  in  hoc  quam  in  caetero  ecclesias- 
tico  officio  secundum  morem  Romanae  ecdesie  insenuerant,  subito  (armatus 
militari  manu)  illis  ignorantibus  quadam  die  in  capitulnm  irruit,  monachos 
nimio  terrore  fugientes  in  ecclesiam  usque  ad  altare  persequitur,  jaculisque 
et  sagittis  cruces  et  imsgines  ae  feretn  «anetomm  manus  militaris  transfi- 
gens,  unum  etiam  monachum,  amplexantem  altare  lancea  transrerberans  in- 
teremit,  alium  ad  altaris  crepidinem  sagittis  oonfossum  necayit.  Csteri 
rero  necessitate  compulsl  scamis  et  eandelabiis  ecdesift  fortiter  se  defend- 
entei»  lloet  graviter  nJiierati,  miUtea  omiies  retio  ohornm  ab^genint ;  aieque 
ftctum  est  ut  duo  ocdsi  quatuordedm  yulnenti  ex  monaehis,  nonnulli  etiam 
de  militibus  sauciati  existerent.  Hinc  moto  judicio,  dum  maxima  abbatis 
ease  cvUptL  patait,  rex  evndem  abbatem  summovlt,  et  In  monasterio  suo  in  Nor- 
mannia  posuit  De  monaohia  Tero  quam  plurimi  per  episoopetos  et  abbatias 
jussn  regis  custodiendi  disperguntur.  Ciqus  post  mortem,  idem  abbas  ite- 
rum  abbatiam  suam  a  filio  ejus  Gulielmo  quingentis  libris  argenti  emit,  et 
per  eodesiis  poasesslones  aliquot  auds  perragatus,  krnge  ab  ipso  monasterio 
(ut  dignus  erat)  miiere  vitam  finirit.  Regina  Matiildia  quarto  Nonas  No- 
▼embris  feria  quinta  decessit  in  Normannia,  et  Cadomi  est  sepulta. 

The  old  bibliographers  attribute  several  other  works  to 
Florence  of  Worcester ;  but  there  is  strong  reason  for  be- 
lieving that  they  had  no  authority  for  them» 

•  W.  Malmsb.  De  Antiq.  GlsstoB.  Eoeleai»»  q>.  Gale,  p.  383,  in  die 
chapter  De  Discordiis  inter  Turstanum  et  suum  oouTentum,  et  de  cmoe  tuI- 
nerata ;  at  the  end  says,  Acta  sunt  hsec  anno  Domini  MLXXXI"  :  hujus 
etiam  rdi  testis  est  Orosius  Angloram  hlstoriographus.  As  no  other  writer 
mentions  anj  EagUsh  ehronider  of  this  name^  at  the  end  of  the  eleventh  and 
beginning  of  the  twelfth  centuries,  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  Ortmu»  is  a 
mere  error  of  the  scribe  for  Flormtim$.  It  is  singular  that  Orderiens  VltaBs, 
speaking  apparently  of  Florence  of  Worcester,  calls  him  John,  lib.  iiL  p.  159 
(ed.  Le  PreTost).  Periiaps,  like  Ordericus  himself,  ha  may  have  had  mote 
names  than  one.  This  historian  says,  that  John  of  Woraester,  the  chro* 
nicler,  was  of  Anglo-Saion  Mood,  and  wm  edacated  In  the  monastery  tnm 
his  childhood. 


Died  1 1 19.]    hbrsbbbt,  bishop  of  nobwioh*         75 


Editions. 

ChronicoD  ex  Chronic»,  ab  initio  mundi  usque  ad  annum  Domini  1118  de- 
ductom,  Auctore  Florentio  l^^igorniensi  monacho.  Acceasit  etiam  con- 
tinuatio  usque  ad  annum  Christi  1141,  per  quondam  ejusdem  eoenoUl 

eruditum Londini,  ezcudebat  Thomas  Dausonus,  pro  Bioazdo 

Watkins,  1592,  4to.  Edited  by  William  Howard,  and  dedicated  to 
Lord  Burghley« 

Flores  Historiarum  per  Matthieum  WestmonasterieiiBem  eoUeotl*  •  •  •  •  •  £1 
Chronicon  ex  Chronicis  ab  initio  mundi  usque  ad  annum  Domini 
MCXTIII  deductum  :  Auctore  Florentio  Wigomiensi  monacho.  Cui 
acoessit  Continuatio  usque  ad  annum  Christi  MCXLI,  per  quondam 
ejusdem  coenobii  eruditum*    FrancoAirti,  1601,  fol. 

Collection  of  Historians,  edited  by  order  of  the  Reoord  CommJMioni  vol.  i. 
pp.  522 — 615.  Chronicon  ex  Chronicis,  ab  initio  mundi  usque  ad  an- 
num Domini  M.C.XYIII.  deductum,  auctore  Florentio  Wtgomiensi 
monacho.  The  portion  extending  ftom  AJ>.  4^0  to  the  Noman  Con- 
quest, pp.  616 — 644.  Florentii  Wigomiensis  ad  Chronicon  Appendix. 
Tables  of  bishops,  kings,  &c. 


HEREBERT,  BISHOP  OF  NORWICH. 

HBREBBRT^known  commonly  by  the  surname  of  Losinga, 
was  born  at  Hiesmes  in  Normandy,  (pagus  Oximensis,*) 
and  became  a  monk  in  tbe  abbey  of  Fecamp,  of  which  he 
was  subsequently  made  prior.  William  Rufus  invited  him 
to  England  in  1087,  and  made  him  abbot  of  Ramsey. 
By  the  king's  favour,  and  other  means^  Herebert  soon  be- 
came very  rich;  and  in  1091  he  bought  of  the  king^  for 
the  sum  of  a  thousand  pounds,  the  bishopric  of  Thetford 
for  himself,  and  the  abbacy  of  Winchester  for  his  fictther 
Robert.t    This  transaction  appears  to  have  created  much 

*  The  greater  nnmber  of  modem  biographers,  with  Bartholemew  de  Cot- 
ton, in  the  Anglia  Sacra,  vol.  i.  p.  407,  have  read  Ozunensis,  and  Oxonien* 
sis,  and  supposed  him  to  be  a  natiye  of  Oxford. 

t  W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Reg.  lib.  IV.  p.  128,  and  de  Gest.  Pontif.  lib.  II. 
p.  338.  Roger  de  Hoveden.  Annal*  p.  464.  See  also  the  articles  on  Here^ 
bert  in  the  Hijit,  lit.  de  France,  torn,  z,  and  in  Godwin  de  Episc. 


76  ^EREBERT^    BISHOP    OF   NORWICH.       [Died  1119. 

scandal  at  the  time^  and  to  have  been  loudly  condemned. 
Herebert  went  in  person  to  Rome  to  obtain  absolution  of 
his  sin  of  simony,  and  endeavoured  to  make  amends  for 
it  by  his  exemplary  conduct  in  after  life.  On  his  return 
from  Rome  in  1094,  he  removed  his  see  from  Thetford  to 
Norwich,  and  founded  at  the  former  place  a  house  of 
Cluniac  monks.  At  Norwich'  he  built  the  cathedral  and 
founded  the  monastery  at  his  own  charges ;  and  he  also 
built  five,  parish  churches  in  his  diocese,  two  at  Norwich, 
and  the  others  at  Elmham,  Lynn,  and  Yarmouth.  He 
died  on  the  22nd  of  July,  1119,  and  was  buried  in  his 
cathedral  church.* 

William  of  Malmsbury  speaks  of  Herebert  as  a  man  of 
considerable  learning ;  and  Henry  of  Huntingdon  mentions 
his  writings  then  extant.f  According  to  Bale  he  was  the 
author  of  a  book  of  sermons,  eighteen  in  number,  begin- 
ning with  the  words,  Convenistis,  dilectissimi  fratres ;  and 
of  separate  treatises,  Be  proliantate  temporum^  and  De  fine 
mundi ;  he  also  attributes  to  him  a  set  of  constitutions 
for  the  government  of  monks,  a  collection  ^of  letters,  and 
a  treatise  Ad  Anselmum  contra  sacerdotes.  If  these  works 
ever  existed,  they  appear  now  to  be  lost.  But  we  learn 
from  the  Histoire  Litteraire  de  France,!  that  in  the  last 
century  there  was  still  preserved,  in  the  library  of  the 
abbey  of  Cambron,  Herebert* s  treatise  on  the  seven  sacra- 
ments^ under  the  title,  Herebertus  de  Septem  Sacramentis. 

*  Bale  and  Pits  place  his  death  in  1120  ;  but  the  other  date  is  supported 
by  better  authorities.     See  Tanner. 

t  NorwiciK  sedit  Herbertus,  vir  benignus  et  doctus,  cujus  extant  scripta. 
H.  Hunt.  De  mundi  contemptui  p.  700. 

t  Tom.  X,  p.  2C7. 


77 


REGINALD  OF  CANTERBURY. 

The  next  Anglo-Norman  poet  of  any  importance  after 
Godfrey  of  Winchester  was  Reginald  of  Canterbury.  We 
learn  from  his  own  writings  that  he  was  bom  and  educated 
at  Fagia,  apparently  in  the  south  of  France,*  and  that 
Aimericlord  of  Fagia  was  his  patron.f  He  came  to  England, 
and  became  a  monk  in  the  Benedictine  abbey  of  St.  Augus- 
tine at  Canterbury.  We  have  no  date  of  any  event  of  his 
life ;  but  we  know  that  he  was  the  contemporary  of  Anselm, 
to  whom  he  addresses  some  of  his  writings,  and  that  he 
was  intimate  with  most  of  the  scholars  of  that  age.  In  a 
short  poem  addressed  to  Gilbert  Crispin  abbot  of  West- 
minster, he  speaks  of  his  principal  poem,  the  legend  of  St. 
Malchus,  and  as  Gilbert  himself  died  in  1117^  we  may 
perhaps  conclude  that  that  poem  was  composed  at  least 
from  three  to  five  years  before  that  date,  in  which  case 
Reginald  must  be  considered  as  having  flourished  about 
A.D.  11 J  2.t  We  have  no  information  on  the  date  of  his 
death. 

We  have  abundant  proofs  that  Reginald  had  studied 
with  attention  the  classic  poets  of  ancient  Rome;  his 
Latinity  is  not  incorrect,  and  he  writes  with  much  facility 
and  spirit,  although  he  has  the  taste  of  a  barbarous  age.  He 

*  In  his  poem  ad  Fagiam  castellumf  Reginald  says, — 
Fagia,  dum  yivam,  te  lando  meam  genitivam 
Terram,  dam  fnero,  grates  tibi  solvere  qunero. 
Fagia,  favisti,  genuistii  perdocuisti 
Olim  me  puerum  falso  discernere  vernm. 
t  He  addresses  one  of  his  poems  to  Domino  stio  Americo  Fagiensi. 
X  This  approximate  date  is  farther  supported  by  the  circumstances  that 
the  MSS.  contain  some  verses  addressed  to  Reginald,  and  complimenting 
him  on  his  life  of  Malchus,  by  Thomas  archbishop  of  York,  who  was  made 
archbishop  in  1109>  and  died  in  1114« 


78     REGINALD  OF  CANTERBURY.     [Flourished  in  1112. 

uses  the  rhyming  hexameters  which  were  termed  Leonine 
verse^  and  tasks  his  ingenidty  to  produce  a  continual  varia- 
tion of  rhymes^  and  of  modes  of  attaching  them  together. 
His  principal  work  is  a  long  poem  on  the  legendary  his- 
tory of  an  eaatem  saint  named  Malchus,  who  lived  in  the 
fourth  century»  The  following  description  of  the  cave  of 
Malchus  will  be  sufficient  to  convey  a  notion  of  tiie  style 
of  tMs  long  verbose  composition.^ 

Hac  sab  rape  specoB  fait  oUm  lomiae  cttcos. 
Antram  semlratom,  Yastanif  penetrabile,  matomi 
Solii  inaeoeifiim  radUiy  oaUgine  pressam. 
QiUB  tamen  irrorat  loea  fout  sol  ilia  Taporat. 
Janoa  dBtarnSf  viz  hoc  rabet  igne  laceraae. 
Sed  te  lndiiioOy  lapidem  com  janaa  dico. 
CardOf  foras,  ailitas»  lapis  est  non  arte  politos. 
Poites  petra  dabat,  sibi  ^oos  natora  creabat. 
Intrantiqae  tamen  dabat  arctam  petra  foramen. 
At  neqoMS  teeto  te  siatere,  eorpore  recto ; 
Ni  qaadrapes  ibist  non  hac  irrvmpere  qoibis. 
Hone  aditam  terras  panra  potes  obice  petrse 
Clandercy  nee  fares  tanc  magni  pendere  cares. 

Some  of  Reginald's  smaller  poems^  more  especially  the 
one  in  praise  of  Fagia,  give  us  a  better  opinion  of  the 
poefs  taste,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  following  lines  from  the 
last  mentioned  poem,  written  in  cross-rhymed  Leonines, 
which  are  best  understood  by  being  divided. 

Fagia,  si  loquerer 

lixigais,  et  millia  nossem 
Plectra,  prias  morerer 

qoam  aingola  scribeie  possem. 
Fagiai  dnm  calidis 

sol  carribas  oocidet  undis 
Cerolese  Thetidis, 

hastes  mnonme  retondis. 


*  A  brief  analysis  of  this  poemi  with  some  extracts,  and  the  two  poems  of 
Reginald  to  Fagia  and  Aimeric,  are  given  in  Sir  Alexander  Croke's  Essay  on 
the  Origin^  F^ogressi  and  Decline  of  Rhyming  Latin  Verse,  pp.  63—89. 


Died  1134.]    brkulph  bivsop  of  Rochester.        79 

FagUf  donee  aper 

tSivtiM,  et  flvnunA  piicU , 
Et  Ylrgolta  caper 

repetuity  tn  ontoave  disoli* 
PagUr  doneo  apes 

CTtisttiii,  jaTcnemque  puella, 
Esnrlenaqae  dapea 

amatf  ardea  viBoere  baDa« 

The  poems  of  Reginald  of  Canterbury  are  preserved  in 
manuscript  in  the  British  Museum^*  and  at  Oicford.f 


ERNULPH,  BISHOP  OP  ROCHESTER. 

Ernulph  was  a  native  of  Beauvais^  where  he  was 
bom  about  the  year  1040.  In  his  youth  he  studied  under 
Lanfranc  at  Becj  and  subsequently^  on  his  return  to 
Beauvais,  he  became  a  monk  in  the  monastery  of  St. 
Lucian^  where  he  taught  grammar.  Dissatisfied  with  the 
behaviour  of  the  monks  of  his  house,  about  1070,  he 
wrote  to  Anselm  and  Lanfranc,  to  ask  their  advice  on  the 
steps  he  should  pursue,  and,  at  the  invitation  of  the 
latter,  he  came  to  England  and  entered  the  priory  of  Can- 
terbury. He  there  continued  to  teach  grammar,  and,  after 
the  accession  of  Anselm  to  the  archbishopric,  was  raised  to 
the  office  of  prior.  In  1107  Emulph  was  made  abbot  of 
Peterborough,  and  in  1114  he  was  promoted  to  the 
bishopric  of  Rochester.]:  One  of  his  most  important 
works  as  bishop  was  the  collecting  of  the  various  early 
charters,  &c.  of  his  see  into  a  volume,  which  is  still  pre* 

•  MS.  Cotlon.  Veapaa.  B.  in. 

t  Bibl.  Bodl.  MS.  Land.  No.  40. 

t  V.  Malmab.  de  Geat.  Pontif.  p.  834,  and  the  Hiat.  Lit.  de  Fr.  torn,  z, 

p.4ii. 


80  EADMEB.  [Died  about  1124. 

served  and  known  by  the  title  of  the  Texttis  Rqffensis. 
Besides  the  charters  of  the  church,  this  volume  con- 
tains a  valuable  collection  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  and  early 
Anglo-Norman  laws,  and  some  other  small  documents 
of  historical  importance.  It  has  furnished  materials 
to  the  different  printed  collections  of  English  laws 
and  constitutions;  a  few  articles  of  its  contents  were 
given  in  the  Anglia  Sacra;  and  finally  the  whole  was 
printed  by  Hearne.  There  are  also  preserved  two  long 
letters  from  Ernulph  to  Walkelin  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  Lambert  abbot  of  St.  Bertin;  the  first  relating  to 
adulterous  marriages,  the  other  to  the  sacrament  of  the 
altar  and  some  other  theological  questions.  Bishop 
Ernulph  died  on  the  15th  of  March,  1 124,  at  the  age  of 
eighty-four. 

Bditiofu, 

Anglia  Sacra.  (Edited  by  H.  Wharton,)  para  prima.  Lond.  1691.  fol.  pp. 
329 — 34.  Eraulfi  Episcopi  Roifensis  Collectanea  de  Rebus  Ecclesin 
Roffensis,  from  the  Teztas  Roffensis. 

Teztas  Roffensis.  Accedunt,  Professionum  antiquomm  Anglie  Episcopo- 
rum  Formulse,  de  canonica  obedientia  archiepiscopis  Cantuariensibus 

preestanda,   &c £   Codicibos  MSS.   descripsit  ediditque  Tho. 

Heamios.    Oxonii,  1730,  8yo. 

Lucas  D'Achery,  Spicilegium  siyc  Collectio  veterum  aliquot  Scriptorum. 
Tomus  III.  Farisiis,  1723,  fol.  pp.  464 — 471.  Emulfi  monachi  Bene- 
dictini,  postea  Roffensis  episcopi,  Epistola  ad  Walchelinum  episcopum 
Wentanum.  pp.  471—474,  Ejusdem  Epistola  ad  Lambertum.  These 
Epistles  appeared  in  the  second  volume  of  the  earlier  edition  of  the 
Spicilegium,  pp.  410  and  431. 


EADMER. 

Eadmer  appears  to  have  been  born  of  an  English 
family ;  he  is  said  to  have  been  placed  at  an  early  age  in 
the  monastery  at  Canterbury^  where  he  became  a  chanter^ 


Died  1124.]  eadmer.  81 

and  where  he  obtained  the  friendship  and  patronage  of 
Anselm  after  his  elevation  to  the  archbishopric.  He 
accompanied  the  primate  in  all  his  troubles  and  wander- 
ings, of  which  he  composed  the  history  after  Anselm's 
death.  To  him  also  was  entrusted  the  direction  of 
Anselm's  funeral.  He  appears  to  have  enjoyed  the 
favour  of  Anselm's  successor,  archbishop  Radulph,  whom 
also  he  accompanied  to  Rome  in  1119.  On  his  return 
to  England,  in  1120,  he  was  elected  bishop  of  St.  Andrew's 
in  Scotland,  but  for  some  reason  or  other  he  returned  to 
Canterbury  the  year  following.*  The  day  of  his  death 
is  known  to  have  been  the  13  th  of  January ;  the  year  is 
less  certain,  but  it  is  supposed  to  have  been  1124. 

As  a  writer,  Eadmer  appears  under  three  characters, 
those  of  a  historian,  of  a  compiler  of  lives  of  saints,  and 
of  a  theologian.  His  principal  historical  work,  the  His^ 
toria  Novorum,  or  history  of  his  own  times,  in  six  books, 
is  the  most  valuable  work  we  possess  relating  to  the 
events  of  the  reign  of  William  Rufus,  and  of  the  earlier 
part  of  that  of  Henry  I.  It  ends  with  the  close  of 
the  archiepiscopate  of  Radulph,  who  died  in  1122,  but 
a  portion  of  it  appears  to  have  been  written  before  the 
death  of  Ansehn,  and  is  even  said  to  have  been  revised 
by  Anselm  himself.  The  life  of  Anselm,  in  two  booksj 
forms  a  necessary  supplement  to  this  history.  The 
Historia  Novorum  was  first  printed  by  Selden:  it  ap- 
pears to  have  been  very  popidar  in  the  twelfth  century, 
and  is  spoken  of  in  high  terms  of  praise  by  William  of 
Malmsbury. 

Eadmer  compiled  lives  of  several  Anglo-Saxon  saints 
connected  with  the  see  of  Canterbury,  such  as  Odo, 
Bregwin,  and    Dunstan,  and  Peter  first  abbot  of  St. 

*  Wharton,  AngUa  Sacra,  vol.  ii.  p.  13. 
VOL.  II.  O 


8^  BABXBR.  [DiedllU. 

Augustine's^  and  of  Oswald  and  Wilfrid  archbishops  ol 
York.  Thiese  have  been  printed  by  Wharton  and  others» 
He  is  said  also  to  hare  written  a  Kfe  of  Aldhebn,  but 
this  is,  perhaps,  an  error  arising  from  the  misreading  of 
Aldhehn  instead  of  Ansdm.  An  early  manuscript  (per- 
haps contemporary)  in  the  Kbrary  of  Corpus  Christi 
College^  Cambridge,*  contains  nearly  all  tiie  works  known 
to  have  been  written  by  Eadmer,  and  more  especially  the 
lives,  but  no  life  of  Aldhelm  occurs  amongst  them. 

Eadmer's  theological  and  miscellaneous  writings  are 
bri^,  and  without  importance.  The  manuscript  just 
alluded  to  contains  his  verses  on  St.  Dunstan ;  a  hymn 
on  St.  Edward  the  king  and  martyr;  a  tract  on  the 
assertion  of  the  monks  of  Glastonbury  that  they  possessed 
the  body  of  Dunstan ;  a  tract  entitled  Scrotum  de  ardi^ 
naiione  beoH  GrefforU  Angbyntm  a^sioli;  on  the  Ex- 
eellence  of  the  Virgin  Mary]  Scriptum  ie  beatitutHne 
vUiB  peremMy  deiumptum  es  semume  kabito  ah  Anaelmo 
Cemtuar.  in  C€Bnobh  CluniaeenH ;  on  the  Conception  of  the 
Virgin  Mary ;  SentenHa  de  memoria  sanctorum  quo»  vene- 
raris;  Scriptum  Eadmeri  peceatoria  ad  eommovendam  mper 
Be  misericordtam  beaH  Petri  janitoris  regni  ccelestie;  a 
discourse  on  the  relics  of  St.  Owen  and  other  saints, 
freserved  at  Canterbury;  and  a  tract  bearing  the  title 
hmpida  qwedam  divinuB  dUtpemationis  eonsideratio  edita 
ab  Eadmero  magna  peccatore  de  beoHssvmo  Gabriele  arch^ 
angelo.  Gerberon,  in  his  e(^on,  restored  to  Eadmet 
two  works  which  had  been  attributed  to  Anselm,  ^^  On 
the  Four  Virtues  which  were  in  the  blessed  Vii^,**  and 
^  Oft  the  Similitudes  of  St.  Anselm.^'  T%e  latter  con- 
tains the  oral  sayings  of  Anselm.  Some  of  Eadmer's 
epistles  are  preserved  in  MS.  Cotton.  Otho,  A.  xii.    A  few 

•  MS.  C.  C.  C.  C.  No.  371. 


Dkd  1124.]  BADKEB.  8S 

other  tracts  «re  ftttributed  to  Eadmer  by  Bale,  which^  if 
they  ever  existed^  appear  now  to  be  lost. 

Eadmer's  account  o£  hia  jo«ira«y  with  A&adboi  from 
Lyons  to  Rome^  in  the  Vita  Ansebniy  will  serve  as  a 
specimen  of  his  style  and  manner  of  writing. 

Cnm  autem  liOgdiiniun  veniaaet,  et  ab  archiepucopo  ciTitatis  ipsius  glo- 
riose  SQBoephis  fiiuaet,  post  dies  paucos  mtesis  Uteris  consiUum  a  domino 
papa  de  n^gpotio  sao  quaesivit»  et  quia  partim  imbecillitate  sm  corporis,  par- 
tim  afiis  pluribos  causis  prsepeditos  ultra  Lnj^aaum  progredi  nequaquam 
posset,  ei  suggessit.  Ita  ergo  Lugduni  resedit,  reditnm  nuntiorom  saorum 
Ibi  ezpectans.  Post  tempus  Roma  nuntii  redeunt*  et  qaoniam  omni  snb- 
lata  excuiatione  eiun  ad  se  papa  properare  prieceperit,  referant.  Ille  nes- 
cins  mors  pontiixcalibus  jussia  obaudit,  yife  se  periculis  mortem  pro  Deo 
mm  Veritas  tradit.  Hlnc  Secnsiam  Tenimus,  et  nos  abbati  loci  iUius  prn- 
sentavimas.  Eramus  quippe  monachi  tres,  dominas  videlicet  et  pater  An- 
selmusy  dominas  Balduinus»  et  ego  qui  heec  scribo  frater  Eadmeros,  qoi 
ita  ibamos  quasi  pares  essemos,  nullo  indicio  qais  coi  prsestaret  coram  aliis 
ostendentes.  Ab  abbate  igitur  qui  vel  nnde  essemos  interrogati,  panels 
respondimos.  Et  audito  qnosdam  ex  nobis  Beccensis  coenobii  monachos 
esse,  sdflcitatns  est :  Fratres,  obsecro  vos,  vivit  ille  adbuc,  ille  Dei  et  om- 
nium bonoTum  amicus  Anselmus,  scilicet  coenobii  ipsius  abbas,  vir  in  omni 
reBgione  probatus  et  acoeptns  ?  Balduinus  ad  biec :  Ille,  ait,  ad  archiepis- 
copatum  in  aliud  regnum  raptus  est.  At  ille,  Audivi ;  sed  nunc  quseso  qua- 
liter  est  ?  valet  ?  Equidem  ex  eo  tempore,  ait,  quo  functus  est  pontificatu, 
non  viifi  eum  Becci :  didtur  tamen  bene  valere  ubi  est.  Tunc  abbas :  Et 
ut  valeat  oro.  Hec  de  se  Anselmus  dici  audiens,  confestim  tecta  cuculae 
sute  capitio  capite,  demisso  vultu  sedebat.  Nolebamus  enim  agnosci,  ne 
forte  pnecurrente  fama  de  adventu  tanti  viri  cuivis  periculo  nostra  incuria 
fieremus  obnoxH.  Celebratis  dehinc  in  coenobio  sancti  Micbaelis  archangeli, 
quod  in  monte  situm  Clusa  vocatur,  Passionis  ac  Resurrectionis  Dominic» 
solenniis,  in  iter  reversi  Romam  festinavimus.  Mirum  dicta.  Pauci  atque 
ignoti  per  loca  peregrina  ibamus»  neminem  agnoseantes,  nemini  qui  vel  unde 
essemus  innotescentes,  et  ecce  solus  Anselmi  aspectus  in  admirationem  sui 
populos  excitabat,  eumque  esse  virum  vitie  designabat.  Unde  cum  jam  hos* 
pitati  etiam  intef  eos»  quorum  insidias  metuebamus,  fuissemus ;  nonnun- 
quitt  fill  «am  muliiribiis  ho^iitiuiitt  intnure»  «t  ut  homlnem  vMere  ejusqoe 
mererentur  benedictione  potiri,  obnixe  pvecabantor. 

Edition», 

fratris  Ediaeri  Angli  de  Vita  D.  Aaaelmi  Archiepiscopi  Cantuariansis» 
lib.  II.  nunquam  antehac  editi.  Antverpise,  1551,  12mo.  It  was 
aftenrardfl  inierted  in  the  editions  of  Anselm's  works. 

o2 


84  STEPHEN  HARDING.  [Died  1134. 

Eadmeri  Monaclii  CantnarienBis  Historic  Novorum  siye  sui  Saecoli.  libri 
VI.  Res  gestas  (quibuB  ipse  non  modo  spectator  diligens  sed  comes 
etiam  et  actor  plemnqne  interfuit)  sub  GuUelmis  I.  et  II.  et  Hen- 
rico I.  Anglise  regibus,  ab  anno  nempe  salatis  MLXVI.  ad  MCXXII. 
potissimum  complex!.  In  Lucem  ex  Bibliotheca  Cottoniana  emisit 
Joannes  Seldenus,  et  notas  porro  adjecit  et  spicileginm.  Londini, 
1623.  fol. 

Acta  Sanctorum  Ordinis  S.  Benedict!.  Sseculum  III.  pars.  i.  fol.  Paris, 
1672,  pp.  196-238,  The  Life  of  Wilfrid.  Seec.  V.  fol.  Paris,  1685, 
pp.  288-296,  The  Life  of  Odo  (ascribed  wrongly  to  Osbem). 

Ansehni  Opera,  ed.  Gerberon.  fol.  Paris,  1675.  The  works  of  Eadmer  as  a 
supplement. 

Anglia  Sacra,  sive  CoUectio  Historiarum  antiquitus  scriptarum  de  Archie- 
piscopis  et  Episcopis  Angli»,  a  prima  Fidel  Christianec  susceptione  ad 
annum  MDXL.  Pars  Secunda,  1691.  Edited  by  Henry  Wharton, 
pp.  78-^87,  Osberni  (verius  Eadmeri)  liber  de  Vita  S.  Odonis  archie- 
piscopi  Cantuar.  pp.  181 — 183,  Eadmeri  librorum  de  Vita  S.  Anselmi 
que  desunt  in  editis.  pp.  184 — 190,  Eadmeri  Liber  de  Vita  S.  Breg- 
wyni.  pp.  191— 210,  Eadmeri  liber  de  Vita  S.  Oswald!,  pp.  211— 221, 
Eadmeri  liber  de  Vita  S.  Dunstani.  pp.  222—226,  Eadmeri  epistola 
ad  monachos  Glastonienses  de  Corpore  S.  Dunstani.  p.  238,  Ead- 
meri epistola  ad  monachos  Wigomienses  de  electione  episcopi. 

Eadmeri  Cantuariensis  Monacbi  Ordinis  S.  Benedict!  Opera:  labore  ac 
studio  Monachorum  Congregationis  S.  Mauri  restituta  et  emendata.  fol. 
Paris,  1721.  As  a  supplement  to  the  works  of  Anselm.  This  collec- 
tion contains  the  Vita  Anselmi ;  Historia  Novorum  (¥rith  Selden*8 
notes)  ;  De  Ezcellentia  Virginia  Mar!»  liber ;  De  Quatuor  Virtutibns 
quee  fuerunt  in  Beata  Maria ;  De  Beatitudine  Coelestis  Patris  liber ; 
De  Sancti  Anselmi  similitadinibus  liber. 


STEPHEN  HARDING. 

Stephen^  whose  patronymic  Harding  shows  him  to 
have  belonged  to  a  purely  Anglo-Saxon  family,  was,  as  we 
are  informed  by  William  of  Malmsbury,  of  obscure  birth. 
At  an  early  age  he  was  entered  as  a  monk  in  the  Bene- 
dictine abbey  of  Shirburn ;  but,  as  he  grew  up,  he  became 
weary  of  a  monastic  life,  and,  quitting  Shirburn,  he  visited 
Scotland  and  Frjince,  and  in  this  latter  country  applied 


Died  1134.]  Stephen  hardino.  85 

himself  for  some  time  to  literary  studies.  It  seems 
that  here  his  earlier  ascetic  feelings  returned ;  he  went 
with  a  fellow  student  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Rome^  and^ 
on  his  return  thence^  he  resumed  the  monastic  habit  in 
the  abbey  of  Moleme  in  France.  Dissatisfied  with  the 
conduct  of  his  fellow  monks  in  this  establishment,  he 
accompanied  a  small  party  to  the  desert  of  Citeauz,  where 
in  1098  they  laid  the  foundation  of  a  monastery  and  of 
an  order  which  soon  became  numerous  and  powerful 
under  the  name  of  Cistercians.* 

Stephen  Harding  is  generally  considered  as  the  prin- 
cipal founder  of  the  order.  In  1109  or  1110  he  became 
the  third  abbot  of  Citeaux,  and  in  1113  Bernard  of  Clair- 
vaux  and  others^  who  were  afterwards  the  most  distin- 
guished ornaments  of  the  order,  placed  themselves  under 
him.  In  1133,  when  very  aged  and  weak,  Stephen  re- 
signed his  office,  and  he  is  said  to  have  died  on  the  l7th 
of  April  in  the  year  following. 

The  only  writings  of  Stephen  Harding  are  some  ordi- 
nances and  sermons  relating  to  his  order,  which  have 
little  connection  with  the  literature  of  England.  They 
have  been  printed  separately  or  in  the  collections  relating 
to  the  Cistercians.t  The  Charta  Caritatis,  a  code  of  re- 
gulations for  the  order,  is  believed  to  be  entirely  his 
composition.  But  the  work  which  gave  him  the  greatest 
claim  to  literary  distinction,  was  a  revision  of  the  Latin 
text  of  the   Bible   by  comparison  with    the    Hebrew, 

*  W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Reg.  lib.  IV.  p.  127.  See  the  article  oa  Ste- 
phen Harding  in  the  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  xi.  p.  213  ;  and  on  the  fonnda- 
dation  of  the  order,  P.  Heliot,  Hist,  des  Ordr.  Relig. 

t  The  Charta  Caritati»  is  printed  in  the  Menologiom  Cisterc.  Antwerp, 
1635  ;  and  in  the  Annales  Cisterc.  of  Manriquez.  An  Exordium  partmm 
eui  ordinia  was  inserted  in  the  Bibliotheca  Cisterciensis,  Paris,  1660.  A 
sermon  attributed  to  Stephen  Harding  is  also  printed  by  Manriquez,  and 
another,  by  Bernard  de  Brito,  Chron.  Cist.  lib.  i.  c.  22.  Two  of  his  letters 
will  be  found  among  those  of  St.  Bernard.    See  Tanner. 


86  PHILIP  OE  THAUN.   IFlourisked  1120. 

which  he  is  said  to  have  had  interpreted  to  him  by  some 
Jews.  The  original  manuscript  of  this  work  shears  to 
have  been  preserved  in  the  library  of  Citeaux  down  to  the 
time  of  the  French  reyolulion.*  Stephea  is  said  to  have 
undertaken  this  task  in  11 09. 


PHILIP  DE  THAUN. 

Philip  de  Thaw  is  the  first  writttr  in  the  Anglo- 
Nenaim  branob  of  the  languages  d^ved  from  tiie  Latisi 
ol  whom  wa  huve  any  distinct  infonnation,  and  he  is, 
p^haps,  the  earliest  port  in  the  langue  ^M  of  whom 
th«»  are  any  remains.  His  name  appears  to  have  been 
derived  from  the  manor  of  Than  or  Thaun  near  Caen  in 
Normandy,  and  the  Abb^  de  la  Hue  believed  that  he  had 
traced  the  family  of  the  poet  in  that  neighbourhood*  It 
is  certain,  however,  that  Philip  himself  lived  and  wrote  in 
England,  an4  that  some  branches  of  his  femiiy  sit  least 
were  established  here.  At  the  commencement  of  one  of 
ffiis  works,  he  tells  us  that  he  wrote  in  honour  of  Adelaide 
of  Louvaine,  queen  of  Henry  I.f  which  would  lead  us  to 
believe  that  he  was  pati^onised  by  that  princess,  who  came 
to  England  in  1 1 2 1 .  The  other  poem  of  Philip  de  Thaun, 
the  Livre  de$  Cremture»,  i^  dedicated  to  his  unde  Humphrey 
de  Thaun,  whom  he  describes  as  the  ebaplain  of  Yhun, 
Yun,  or  Ydun,  seneschal  of  the  king.J    The  Abb^  de  la 

*  Hist.  Lit.  de  France,  ikid. 

t  See  the  Popular  Treati^  on  Science,  p.  74. 

X  A  sun  uncle  renveiet,  que  amender  la  deiet, 
Si  rien  i  ad  mesdit  ne  en  fait  ne  en  escrit» 
A  Unfirei  de  Thaun,  le  chapelein  Yhun  (al.  Yun,  Ydun) 
£  seneschal  lu  rei,  icho  tus  dl  par  mei. 

ib.  p.  30. 


Flouri$hed  1120.']  philip  bb  thaun.  87 

Rue  iffts  of  opinion  that  the  person  designated  by  this 
name  was  Hugh  Bigot,  afterwards  created  earl  of  Norfolk ; 
bat,  from  researches  I  have  made  since  the  publication 
of  my  edition  of  the  text,  I  feel  much  more  indined  to 
bdieye  tiiat  he  was  Eudo,*  commonly  known  by  t^e  tide 
of  Dapifer,  another  name  for  seneschal^t  which  office  he 
had  received  from  the  Conqueror,  and  continued  to  enjoy 
during  the  reigns  of  his  two  sons,  WilUam  Rufus  and 
Henry  I.  till  his  death  on  Ae  last  day  of  February, 
1120«  Eudo  Dapifer  was  the  friend  of  Gundulf  bishop 
of  Rochester,  ajftd  of  sereral  of  the  more  distinguished 
ecclesiafltics  ef  his  time,  and  is  best  known  as  the  founder 
of  the  abbey  of  St.  John  at  Colchester.  We  are  thus 
enabled  to  fix  with  exactitude  the  time  at  whidi  Philip 
de  Thaun  flourished ;  for  one  of  the  two  poems  by  which 
he  is  known  must  have  been  written  before  the  year  1120, 
and  the  other  after  1121. 

These  two  poems  are  chiefly  interesting  as  valuable 
documents  of  the  Anglo-Norman  language.  As  poetical 
compositions  they  have  littie  merit,  and  deserve  no  higher 
character  than  that  of  rhyming  prose.  They  are  written 
in  lines  of  twelve  syllables,  the  middle  of  each  line  rhyming 
with  the  end.  The  first  of  these  poems,  entitled  the  Livre 
des  Creatures,  is  a  treatise  on  astronomy  as  far  as  it  was 
cultivated  by  the  priesthood  as  a  means  of  calculating  the 
moveable  times  and  seasons  observed  by  the  Church. 
The  author  appears  not  as  an  original  writer,  but  as  a 
mere  compiler  and  translator  from  the  older  treatises  on 

*  It  appears  that  Tun,  or  Sun^  was  the  common  form  in  French  and 
Anglo-Norman  for  Endo  ;  WiUiam  of  Newbury  says  of  a  person  of  that 
name,  Sudo  is  dicebatur  .  .  .  .  ita  dementatns,  nt  qunm  sermone  GalUco 
Eun  diceretor,  &c.    W.  Newbr.  De  Rebus  AngUcIs,  lib.  i.  c.  19. 

t  Eudoniy  qui  erat  mtjor  domus  regis,  quern  nos  vulgariter  senescallum 
vel  dapiferum  Yocamus.  Historia  Fnndat.  Abbat.  S.  Johan.  CoLeonU  printed 
in  the  Monasticon,  yoI.  IY.  p.  607»  last  Edit. 


88  PHILIP  DE  THAUN.   [Fhurished  1120. 

the  Compotus  of  Bede^  Helperic^  Turchil^  and  Gerland. 
He  informs  us  that  he  composed  this  book  for  the  use  of 
the  priests  of  his  time,  and  from  the  terms  in  which  he 
speaks  of  them  we  may  conclude  that  many  of  them  were 
not  able  to  study  this  science  in  the  Latin  of  the  origi- 
nal writers.  The  second  poem  of  Philip  de  Thaun,  his 
Bestiary^  is  also  translated  and  compiled  from  Latin 
originals.  It  is  a  book  of  natural  liistory  as  that  subject 
was  then  treated,  consisting  of  brief,  often  fabulous,  de- 
scriptions of  animals,  with  long  moralisations^  in  which 
the  different  characteristics  of  the  animals  are  interpreted 
to  represent  symbolically  the  mysteries  and  doctrines  of 
the  Church.  This  mode  of  considering  objects  of  animated 
nature  was  very  popular  during  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth 
centuries.  The  authorities  which  Philip  de  Thaun  cites 
most  frequently  are  two  Latin  tracts,  which  he  calls 
Physiologus  and  Bestiarius ;  but,  as  several  different 
treatises  on  the  same  subject  were  published  under  each 
of  those  names,  it  is  not  quite  certain  to  which  of  them 
he  refers.  The  account  of  the  unicorn  ( here  called 
mono8ceros)y  one  of  the  shortest  chapters^  will  best  convey 
to  the  reader  an  idea  of  the  language  and  style  used  by 
Philip  de  Thaun  in  his  poems^  as  well  as  of  the  manner 
in  which  he  treats  natural  history. 

Monosceros  est  beste,  nn  com  ad  en  la  teste, 
Fur  geo  ad  si  &  nuiii  de  buc  ad  fa9i]iir 
Par  pucele  est  prise,  or  oez  en  quel  guise. 
Quant  horn  le  Tolt  cacer  e  prendre  *]  enginner, 
Si  yent  horn  al  forest  u  sis  repairs  est ; 
lA  met  une  pucele  hors  de  sein  sa  mamele, 
£  par  odurement  monosceros  la  sent ; 
Dune  vent  k  la  pucele,  e  si  baiset  sa  mamele, 
En  sun  devant  se  dort,  issi  vent  a  sa  mort ; 
li  horn  survent  atant,  ki  Pocit  en  dormant, 
U  trestut  vif  le  prent,  si  fait  puis  sun  talent. 
Grant  choBe  Bignefie,  ne  larel  ne  V  vus  die. 


Flourished  1124.]       rooer  infans.  S9 

Monosceros  Gnu  est,  en  Franceis  un  com  est : 

Beste  de  tel  baiUie  Jhesu  Crist  signefie ; 

Un  deu  est  e  serat  e  fad  e  parmaindrat ; 

En  la  yirgine  se  mist,  e  pur  horn  cham  i  prist, 

£  pur  -virginited  pur  mustrer  casteed  ; 

A  Tirgine  se  pamt  e  vii^gine  le  concent, 

Yirgine  est  e  serat  e  tu2  jurz  parmaindrat. 

Or  oez  brefment  le  signefiement. 

Ceste  beste  en  vert^  nns  signefie  D^ ; 

La  virgine  signefie  sacez  Sancte  Marie ; 

Par  sa  mamele  entent  sancte  eglise  ensement ; 

£  puis  par  le  baiser  yeo  deit  signefier, 

Qae  horn  quant  il  se  dort  en  semblance  est  de  mort : 

D^s  cum  bom  dormi,  ki  en  la  cruiz  mort  sufri, 

£  sa  destmctiun  nostre  redemptiun, 

£  sun  trayeillement  nostre  reposement, 

Si  decent  D^s  diable  par  semblant  cuYenable  ; 

Anme  e  cors  sunt  un,  issi  fud  D^s  "3  horn, 

£  960  signefie  beste  de  tel  baillie. 

Several  manuscripts  of  the  Livre  des  Creatures  of  Philip 
de  Thaun  have  been  preserved,  but  only  one  copy  of  the 
Bestiary  is  known  to  exist.    Both  have  been  printed. 

Edition. 

Popular  Treatises  on  Science  written  daring  the  Middle  Ages,  in  Anglo- 
Saxon,  Anglo-Norman,  and  English.  £dited  by  Thomas  Wright.  8yo. 
London,  1841.  pp.  20 — 73,  li  Livre  des  Creatures,  by  Philip  de  Thaun* 
pp.  74 — 131,  The  Bestiary  of  Philip  de  Thaun*  Each  accompanied 
with  a  literal  translation  in  English. 


ROGER  INFANS. 

RoGER^  who  for  some  reason  or  other  (perhaps  for  his 
precocity  of  learning)  obtained  the  appellation  of  Infans^ 
and  to  whom  Leland  without  any  reason  has  given  the 
name  of  Yonge,  appears  to  have  been  distinguished  as 
a  mathematician  of  the  old  school  at  the  era  when  the 
Arabian  sciences  were  beginning  to  be  introduced.  The 
only  work  he  is  known  to  have  written  is  a  treatise  on 


90  RO«BR  IKFAVft.        [JbttKifaif  IIM. 

the  Compotus^*  in  which  he  appears  to  hare  enlarged 
and  improved  on  the  labours  of  his  predecessors.  Tanner^ 
following  Wood,  has  fallen  into  an  error  with  regard  to 
the  date  at  which  he  lived,  and  appears  to  have  con- 
founded him  with  Roger  of  Hereford.  He  tells  us  him- 
self that  his  treatise  on  the  Compotiis  was  published  in 
1124.t  He  says  in  his  prefiace  that  at  the  time  he  com- 
posed this  work^  he  had  been  occupied  Mveral  years  in 
teaching,]:  and  he  complains  of  the  enrj  and  jealousy  to 
which  he  was  exposed.  The  chief  authorities  he  quotes 
are  Gerland  and  Helpoic,  whom  he  £requ«n4iy  corrects. 
He  informs  us  that  at  the  time  he  wrote  tiiis  book  he  was 
a  young  man.  In  the  preface,  of  which  the  following  is 
a  portion,  he  gives  us  some  aceount  of  his  uotiTes  for  the 
compilation  of  a  treatise  on  the  Compotus» 

Cum  non  At  hamanie  beneyolentue  rem  ploribus  sed,  qaod  mAgis  eflt,  sin- 
gulis  necessariam  infra  terminos  faoilitatu  includere,  de  compoto,  quamyia 
diffidllimam  sit  tantie  rei  a  Tiris  sammis  sRpe  et  diligenter  tractatas  aUquid 
novi  adderoi  fed  et  prsiumptuomm  Tideatur  jurenem  tot  emim  scripta  re* 
tractare,  odultomm  tamen  petltionibuB  qnoa  ad  hoc  Inijiia  acieiktla  iirntaTit 
exoellentia  Boribere  compeQor.  Hoc  namqoe,  ut  asterit  Timflras  PUtonia, 
In  benefido  ocalomm  seminariiim  tothis  extitit  pfailoaopbin,  qase  primo  con- 
aiderata  mirabili  motuum  ac  temporam  Tarlatione  «e  ereztt  ad  liberrimaa 
humaniB  nature  excellentiaa,  sermonem  videlicet  ac  rationem  exomandas ; 
aermonem  quidem  scientia  recte  loqnendi  yel  scribendi  ad  inteUigentiam, 
argute  vero  disserendi  ad  fidem,  ornate  decorandi  ad  pennaaonem ;  aed  et 
rationem  ipsami  ut  sicut  cuncta  numero,  pondere,  et  mensora  conaiatunt, 
ita  horom  triom  acientiia  ad  remm  natnram  hnrestigandom  et  superioram 
et  inferiorum  penrexit.    Necnon  et  ipsa  theologia,  qoie  eat  de  creatoria  cog- 


j 


*  The  only  copy  known  to  exist  is  in  the  Bodleian  library,  MS.  Digby, 
No.  40,  fol.  21,  t».f  where  It  ocmuneaeea  wUSk  the  robric  0a  a  hand  of  «he 
thirteenth  oentury),  FneMo  magiatri  Rogaii  Inlantia  in  Compotnm. 

t  MS,  Digby,  No.  40,  foL  50,  r». 

X  Sed  et  otinm  quod  mlhi  contingit  pro  ivgimlne  scholaram  qolbmi  jam 
plnribns  annis  deeudati,  et  pro  deatrictione  rel  fhrnOtaria  qned  non  fodle 
felinquit  me  immomoren  toiy  malebam  in  gtudendo  mihi  qutm  aliis  con* 
flnmere. 


ffomi$M  1  in.]         nwAMWM.  »1 


nitioiw,  Imhms  liU  tanqiian  <le  exiadu  «rtiu»  «stfMoiMa  iiMun  elii;lt  por- 
tionem,  non  solam  libi  sed  omni  vitip  tarn  commimi  qnam  ttndioMe  maxiinft 
necessitatem.    Hanc  tamen  tant»  excellenti«  gdentiam  atftrologi,  natnrft 


flutes,  eompotamqna  ab  ilia  certitadiae  mnltiini  diicrepare  xeperientoif 
falaam  ab  omni  pbilosophica  disciplina  aljiciendam  arbitnudtar.  Sed  et 
eoBpotiatiB  iirter  attanqmm  intealina  pnelia  oomiiioyeBltea»iiatiinaBBTidgarem 
^oaoi^Qlw»  •  ata  nbtilitata  diaoiepantBrnt  mutpa^m  asBswni  9fimamm 
HQam  xitionia  wrftatem  fuequeotem  algioiiiiit,  flontra  ▼nlgarpa  natnntoi 
a  sennbua  amotam  aoliqne  rationi  patentem  vaiiaiii  ixianemqae  acientiamy 
fVMi  DM  ocAi  ^nMt  mc  «uis  Mdivity  qipdlMit. 


HILARIUS. 

A  POET  of  this  name^  belonging  to  the  earlier  half  of 
the  twelfth  century^  l^aa  left  a  small  collection  of  light 
pieces  in  Latin  rhjnmi,  whiek  «to  preserved  in  a  ma- 
nuscript now  in  the  BibHoth^que  Royale  at  Paris* 
Different  allusions  in  tiiese  poemt^  and  I3ie  names  of  the 
friends  to  whom  some  of  them  are  addressed,  or  who  are 
commemorated  in  them,  afford  the  strongest  reasons  for 
believing  their  author  to  have  been  an  £qglishman.  He 
appears  to  have  left  his  native  land  in  order  to  become  a 
disciple  of  Abelard,  who  also  is  the  subject  of  one  of  his 
poems.  It  was  addressed  to  that  philosopher  on  the  oc- 
oasion  of  Us  temponry  retirement  from  his  school  about 
Ae  year  1125,  and  is  the  only  one  of  them  the  date  of 
which  we  are  able  to  fix.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that 
ail  these  pocans  were  written  in  nranee. 

The  poems  of  Hilarius  consist  of  three  scriptural  dramas, 
and  a  nimiber  of  shorter  pieces  addressed  to  his  friends 
of  both  sexes.  They  are  aU  written  in  rhyming  verse,  in 
a  style  more  or  less  playful,  and  some  of  Aem  are  inter- 
spersed with  lines  of  French*    The  dramas,  the  subjects 


92  HiLARius.  [Flourished  1125. 

of  which  are  a  miracle  of  St.  Nicholas^  the  raising  of 
Lazarus,  and  the  history  of  Daniel,  are  the  first  rude  out* 
lines  of  the  mysteries  and  miracle  plays  of  a  later  age, 
and  on  that  account  possess  considerable  interest.  The 
smaller  poems  are  chiefly  addressed  to  religious  persons, 
and  are  of  a  serious  character,  although  one  or  two  appear 
to  be  nothing  less  than  love  songs.  The  style  is  that  of 
most  similar  productions.  The  following  lines  from  the 
poem  in  praise  of  Caliastrum  (Chalautre-la-Petite,  in  the 
diocese  of  Sens)  exhibits  Hilarius  in  his  best  vein. 

Regam  aulas  atque  palatia 
Cleriooram  eequant  hospitia ; 
Sunt  nimiram  loca  regalia, 
Non  eremi  yastse  mapalia. 

Vinetumqiie  multam  et  fertile 
VinQm  confert  firmam  et  nobUe ; 
Nee  Falenuun  est  comparabile, 
Nee  gostavit  SilenuB  simile. 

Fontis  quoqne  sasnrrans  riyulns, 
Per  quern  alte  yidetur  calculus» 
Pegasaeo  nimimm  semulus, 
Voluptatls  accedit  cumulus. 

Fdns  sincerus,  fons  indeficiens» 
Fons  per  solem  siccari  nesciensy 
Ad  quern  tendat  doctrlnam  sitiensy 
Inde  bibat,  et  erit  sapiens. 

The  first  stanzas  of  the  poem  to  Peter  Abelard  will 
show  the  manner  in  which  Hilarius  mixes  French  with 
his  Latin ;  he  alleges  the  indiscretion  of  a  servant  as  the 
cause  of  the  misunderstanding  between  Abelard  and  his 
scholars. 

lingua  seryi,  lingua  perfidift, 
Rizae  motus,  semen  discordise, 
Quam  sit  prava  sentimus  hodie, 
Subjacendo  gravi  sententise. 

Tort  a  vers  not  U  mestrei. 


Flourished  1125.]  hilariub.  93 

Lingua  servi,  nostnun  discidimn, 
In  no8  Petri  commoTit  odium. 
Quam  meretur  ultorem  gladium. 
Quia  nostrum  extinxit  studium ! 
Ibrt  a  veri  no9  li  mestre. 

In  the  foUowing  lines  from  the  same  piece,  Hilarius 
speaks  of  himself  in  a  manner  which  would  lead  us  to 
believe  that  at  this  time  he  was  not  a  young  man. 

Heu  i  quam  crudelia  est  iste  nundus 
Dicens,  **  Fratres,  exite  citius  : 
Habitetur  vobis  Quinciacus  ; 
Alioquin  non  leget  monachuB," 
Tort  a  vert  nos  U  mestre. 

Quid,  Hilari,  quid  ergo  dubitas  ? 
Cur  non  abis  et  villam  habitaa  ? 
Sed  te  tenet  diei  brevitas, 
Iter  longum,  et  tua  grayitas. 

Tort  a  vert  not  li  mettre. 

Ex  diyerso  multi  conyenimus, 
Quo  logices  fons  erat  plurimus ; 
Sed  discedat  summus  et  minimus , 
Nam  negatur  quod  hie  quaesiyimus. 
Tort  a  vert  not  U  mettre. 

We  may  cite  as  another  specimen  of  the  lyric  talents  of 
Hilarius  a  few  lines  from  a  poem  addressed  to  an  English 
lady  named  Rosea. 

Aye,  splendor  puellarum, 

generosa  domina. 
Gemma  micana,  sidua  clarum, 

speciosa  femina, 
Que  prseceliis,  et  non  parum, 

mulierum  agmina, 
Bonum  ingens,  bonum  ramm, 

mea  lege  carmina. 

Credo  mihi»  cum  natura 

te  primo  composidt, 
Ad  probandum  sua  jura 

te  mundo  proposuit. 
Dotes  multas,  bona  plura 

tibi  quidem  tribuit ; 
Et  quid  posset  sua  cura 

prudenter  ezhibuit. 


94  ATHELAS9  09  BATH.  [FlomrMed 

Te  protect 


TeprodnaH 


TeieT«nni»t0J4 
doctriiuB 
Nomen  taiim  «gnat  rosami 

€k  O0C6  VlI]JIIIlttt« 

The  manuscript  containing  the  only  i^opy  known  of  the 
poems  of  Hilarius  remained  long  buried  in  the  obscurity 
of  private  libraries.  It  was  «aed  by  Duchesne,  in  1616, 
and  by  Mabillon  in  1713^  stffcer  which  it  was  entirely  lost 
sight  of  till  it  was  offered  for  sale  at  Paris  in  the  library 
of  M.  de  Rosny  in  183.7>  and  bought  £or  the  Bibliotheque 
Royale.  Duchesne  published  the  poem  on  Abelard  in  his 
edition  of  the  works  of  the  great  scholastic  writer. 

Hilarii  Vemu  et  Lndi.  L«tate  Paxiiionuii»  1838^  ISno.    Edited  by  M. 
Champollion-Figeac* 


ATHELARD  OP  BATH. 

Athelard'^  is  the  greatest  name  in  English  science 
before  Robert  GrossetSte  and  Rogwr  Bacon.  His  name 
would  lead  us  to  beliere  that  he  was  of  Saxon  blood. 
He  was  bom  probably  in  the  latter  part  of  the  eleyenth 
century,  and  first  quitted  England  to  study  in  the  schools 
of  Tours  and  Laon.  In  the  lattev  fdaee  h6  opened  a 
school^  and  had  among  other  disciples  his  nephew,  to 
whom  he  appears  to  have  he&x  affectionately  attached. 
But  Athelard's  love  of  knowledge  was  unsatisfied  with 

•  In  the  Latin  MSS.  he  U  caUe4  Adelardoe,  d  Mag  the  letter  which  in 
Latin  afforded  the  nearest  appreatUMttoii  to^  llio  Mfund  of  the  English  iS, 


111(^1120.]        AVHBZ.ABD  OF  UATMs  M 

ibe  state  of  icieiiee  in  Fraacey  and  he  left  kia  aohook  and 
crossed  Hhe  Alps  to  Salerno^  from  whence  he  proceeded 
to  Gieece  and  Asia  Muxor^*  and  it  is  refy  probable 
that  he  went  to  stadj  anwng  the  Arabs  i»  the  East. 
Bagdad  and  Egypt  weve  then  the  seats  of  Arabia»  learnings 
On  his  armat  in  his  natire  country  after  a»  absence 
of  seven  yeaars,  the  thione^  he  tells  ns^  was  ocevpied 
by  Henry  I. ;  f  and  one  of  the  first  books  he  published 
after  his  avrrral^  being  dedicated  to  Wilham  bishop  of 
Syracuse,  must  have  been  written  before  1116«  the  date 
of  that  prdate's  death.  This  tract,  which  bears  some 
resemUance  to  the  Judgment  of  Hercules  by  the  Ghiecian 
Phniicus,  and  which  is  entitled  De  eodem  ei  diveraoy  is  an 
allegery,  in  which  Athelard  justifies  his  passion  for  the 
sdences;  he  introduces  Philosophy  and  Philocosmia  (or  the 
love  of  wordly  enjoyment)  as  i^peanng  to  him  on  the  banks 
of  the  Loire  in  the  form  of  two  women,  when  he  was  a 
student  at  Tours,  and  disputing  for  the  possession  of  his 
afteetions^  until  he  threw  himself  hito  the  arms  of  Philoso- 
phy, drdve  away  her  rival  with  disgrace,  and  entered  on  the 
path,  of  learning  with  that  ardour  which  induced  him 
subsequently  to  seek  instruction  even  among  the  distant 
Arabs.  It  appears  that  after  his  return  from  his  travels 
he  opened  a  school,  probably  in  France  or  Normandy, 
where  he  taught  the  Arabian  sciences.  These  were  still 
new  in  the  west  of  Europe,  and  were  decried  by  many, 
and  among  others  as  it  seems  by  Athelard's  nephew. 
Athelard  wrote  one  of  his  most  popular  works,  the  QtkSi- 
tiones  Naturalesy  to  oppose  this  prejudice,  and  to  give  a 

*  Athelsrd  de  Bodem  et  Direrso,  sub  ilney  dted  by  Jonrdaiiiy  lUcherdkfli 
critiques  sur  les  TraductioDS  d'Arfstote,  p.  300. 

t  Cum  in  Angliam  nuper  redierim  Henrico  Willelmi  AngUs  imperante, 
qnvni  fl  patrnt  gmss  studii  diu  ue  eKceperanit  occursus  aniconm  eC  jocun- 
dus  mflii  ftiie  et  commodus.  Dedicst.  Nfttnral.  Cbuest.  MS.  Cotton.  Galba, 
E.  lY.  fol.  214. 


96  ATHELARD  OF  BATH*  [Flourished 

specimen  of  the  doctrines  on  natural  history  which  he  had 
brought  home.  He  reminds  his  nephew  how,  seven  years 
before,  when  he  had  dismissed  him  (then  a  mere  youth) 
with  his  other  disciples,  it  had  been  agreed  between  them 
that  he  would  himself  go  and  seek  the  learning  of  the 
Arabs,  and  that  his  nephew  should  in  the  meantime  make 
himself  master  of  all  the  science  which  could  be  found 
among  the  Franks.*  In  reply,  the  nephew  is  made  to 
express  a  distaste  for  his  uncle's  Saracenic  doctrines,  and 
for  the  extravagant  terms  in  which  he  spoke  of  their 
superiority  over  the  old  studies  of  the  western  schools.f 
Athelard  then  proceeds  to  defend  his  opinions  on  this 
subject,  and  provokes  his  nephew  to  propose  what  were 
considered  some  of  the  most  difficult  questions  in  natural 
hi8tory4  In  the  following  passage  taken  from  the  sixth 
chapter  of  this  treatise,  which  will  serve  as  a  specimen  of 
his  style,  Athelard  describes  briefly  the  principle  of  the 
school  of  natural  philosophy  which  he  was  founding,  and 
which  was  more  perfectly  developed  at  a  later  period  by 
the  great  lord  Bacon. 

iV.  De  istis  qnee  paerilia  sunt,  TerisimiUa  magiB  quain  necessaria  dizisti. 
Quare  ad  ipsam  animalium  naturam  ascendamoB  ;  ibi  enim,  ut  animus  mihi 
prsesagit,  scrupulum  tibi  innectam.  jf.  De  animalibus  difficilis  est  mea 
tecum  discertio.    Ego  enim  aliud  a  magistris  Arabicis  ratione  duoe  didici,  tu 


*  Meministi  nepos  quod  septennio  jam  transacto,  cum  te  in  Gallicis  studiis 
pene  puerum  juxta  Laudisdonum  una  cum  cseteris  auditoribus  meis  dimise- 
rim,  id  inter  nos  convenisse,  ut  Arabum  studia  ego  pro  posse  meo  scrutarer, 
tu  vero  Gallicarum  sententiarum  inconstantiam  non  minus  adquireres.  MS. 
Cotton,  ib. 

f  Quia  cum  Saracenorum  sententias  te  ssepe  exponentem  auditor  tan- 
tum  notayerim  earumque  non  paucee  satis  fuiiles  mihi  Tideantur. . . .  Quippe 
et  illos  impudice  eztollis,  et  nostros  detractionis  modo  inscitia  invidiose 
arguis. 

X  Hoc  tamen  Titato  incommodo,  ne  quis  me  ignota  proferentem  ex  mea  id 
sententia  facere,  Terum  Arabicorum  studiorum  sensa  putet  proponere  • .  • « 
Quare  caumun  Arabum  nou  meam  agam. 


1110 — 1120.]  ATHELARD   OF  BATH*  97 

vera  aliud  anctoritatU  pictara  captns  capistriun  BequeiiB.  Quid  enim  aliud 
auctoritas  dicenda  est,  quam  capiatrain  ?  Ut  brata  quippe  animalia  capistro 
qnolibet  ducuntnr,  nee  qao  aut  quare  dncuntar  discemunt,  restemque  qua 
tenentur  solum  sequuntur,  sic  non  paucos  yestrum  bestiali  credulitate  captos 
ligatosque  auctoritas  scriptonun  ia  periculum  ducit.  Unde  et  quidam  nomea 
auctoritatis  sibi  usurpantes  nimia  scribendi  licentiausi  sunt,  adeo  utpro 
yens  falsa  bestialibus  yiris  insinuare  non  dubitayerint.  Cur  enim  chartas 
non  impleas,  cur  et  a  ter|;o  non  scribasy  cum  tales  fere  bujus  temporia  audi- 
tores  habeas,  qui  nuUam  sibi  judicii  rationem  exigant,  tituli  tantum  no^ 
mine  yetusti  confidant  ?  Non  enim  intelligunt  ideo  rationem  singulis  datam 
esse,  ut  inter  yemm  et  fidsum  ea  prima  judioe  discematur.  Nisi  enim  ratio 
judex  nniyersalis  esse  deberet,  frustra  singulis  data  esset.  Sufficeret  enim 
prsescriptorum  scriptura  data  esse  unidico  yelpluribus,  cseteri  eorum  institu- 
tiB  et  auctoritatibus  essent  contenti.  Amplius,  ipsi  qui  auctores  yocantur 
non  aliunde  primam  fidem  apud  minores  adept!  sunt,  nisi  quia  rationem 
secuti  sunt,  quam  quicunque  sentiunt  yelnegligunt,  meritocRci  habendi  sunt. 
Neque  enim  id  ad  yiyum  reseco,  ut  auctoritas  me  judice  spernenda  sit ;  id 
autem  assero,  quod  prius  ratio  inquirenda  sit,  ea  inyenta  auctoritas  si  adjacet 
demum  subdenda  est.  Ipsa  yero  sola  nee  fidem  pbilosopho  facere  potest,  nee 
ad  hoc  adducenda  est.  Unde  et  logic!  locum  ab  auctoritate  probabilem  non 
necessarium  esse  consenserunt.  Qnare  si  quid  aliud  a  me  amplius  audire 
desideras,  rationem  refer  et  recipe.  Non  enim  ego  ille  sum  quem  pelUs  pic- 
tura  pascere  possit.  Omnis  quippe  litera  meretriz  est,  nunc  ad  hos  nunc  ad 
illos  affectus  ezposita.  N,  Sit  sane  ut  postulas,  cum  mihi  rationabiliter 
opponere  facile  sit,  neque  Arabum  tuorum  auctoritates  sequi  tutum  sit. 
Stet  igitur  inter  me  et  te  ratio  sola  judex,  ut  sit. 

The  manner  in  which  Athelard  speaks  of  the  reception 
of  the  Arabian  sciences  seems  to  show  that  they  were 
then  quite  new  among  the  Christians  of  the  West^  and  to 
contradict  the  opinion  founded  on  a  legend  preserved  by 
William  of  Malmsbury,  that  they  had  been  introduced 
long  before  by  Qerbert.  We  know  nothing  more  of 
Athelard's  personal  history.^  His  celebrity  was  great  in 
after  times^  and  in  the  thirteenth  century  Vincent  of 
Beauvais  gives  him  the  title  of  Philosophtis  Anglorum. 
Aihelard's  writings  appear  to  have  enjoyed  a  great  popu- 

*  The  date  of  Athelard^s  death  is  unknown.  Mr.  Hunter  is  inclined  to 
think  he  may  be  the  Adelardus  de  Bada  mentioned  in  the  pipe  roll  as  redd- 
ing in  England  in  1130.  This  is,  howeyer,  at  the  least  yery  doubtful ;  the 
name  was  yery  common  in  England,  and  I  think  it  hardly  probable  that  our 
Athelard  would  haye  been  resident  here  at  that  time» 

VOL.  1«  H 


98  ATHSLAJRD  OF  BATH»  IFhuiirMed 


We  may  dmde  them  into  two  dasses;  OTiginat 
works  and  translations  from  the  Arabic.  Among  the 
former  avcy 

1.  The  treatise  De  eodem  et  dSverm  abeady  mentioned^ 
o£  which  the  only  copy  known  to  exist  is  preserved  in  a 
znanucript  la  the  KUiotheqne  Royate  at  Pari».*  It  is 
written  in  the  form  of  a  letter  to  his  nephew^  and  def- 
eated to  William  bishop  of  Syracuse. 

2.  Tanner  mentions  a  tract  with  the  somewhat  sfmilar 
title  of  De  sic  et  non  sic,  which  he  says  commenced  with 
the  words^  Memimsti  ew  quo  incepmus* 

3.  The  Queestiones  Natitrales,  of  which  there  are  many 
manuscripts  existing  under  a  great  variety  of  titles.  This 
treatise  was  printed  apparently  as  early  as  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury. It  is  written^  as  already  intimated^  in  the  form  of  a 
dialogue  between  Athelard  and  his  nephew,  and  is  dedi- 
cated to  Richard  \nshop  of  Bayeioc  (1 108— 113d).  In  this 
tract  Athelard  gives  his  opinions  on  various  physical  ques- 
tions concerning  animala,  man,  and  the  elements.  At  the 
conclusion  he  promises  a  treatise  on  higher  philosophical 
subjects,  De  initio  et  initiis, 

4.  Reguhe  Abaci.  This  tract,  on  a  subject  which  since 
the  time  of  Gerbert  had  employed  the  pens  of  a  multitude 
of  mathematicians,  was  perhaps  one  of  Athelard's  earliest 
writings.  It  is  preserved  in  a  MS.  of  the  Library  of 
Leyden,  where  it  is  preceded  by  a  short  preface  con- 
taining Athelard's   name,t  &nd  without  the  preface  or 

*  No.  2389.  An  analyai»  of  this  trettne  is  giTen  bjr  JottEdain,  Tlecherch« 
critiques  sur  les  TraductioiiB  d'Aristote,  pp.  285^300. 

t  MS.  Scaliger,  No.  I.  The  prefkce  is  at  foUows :— AdeAtrdos  phi- 
losophoram  assecla  ultinms  H.  buo  salutem.  Cum  inter  nonnulla  fercula 
philoflophise  mensc  apposita  noftfa  dextrorsiun  solitariig  diflcambentibusy 
prozimi  conviTK  de  parte  secnnda  tnpHciter  ramerent,  et  me  de  qnadrifidA 
lance  paoca  ori  tao  instillante  omnia  ibtidins,  qoippe  qoK  ab  afik  sepoafta 
et  hactenns  intemptata  tibi  Tideres,  Pytagorivm  antidotnm  ante  prselibasti. 
Perhaps  H  should  be  If  (nepoti  soo).    The  trsct  itietf  b^gfan  with  the 


1110^1120.}         ATHELABD  OF  BATH.  99 

name  in  a  nuumacript  in  the  Bibliotii^que  Royale  at 
Paris.* 

5.  A  treatise  on  the  Astrolabe^  evide&ily  taken  from 
Aiabam  «riteni.  A  copy  ia  preserved  in  the  Bikiah  Mu- 
»eiun.t  Ldand,  vho  sometimes  qpeaks  rather  extraTa>- 
gantly  of  the  style  of  the  medieval  writers^  ealls  this  ^'  U- 
belh»  argntiun,  numeroBura^  rotundnm.^  It  is  certainly 
the  one  of  Athelard's  works  which  kaat  merits  that  cha- 
racter. 

&  ProUenuUa*  Leland  mentiens  a  work  of  Athelard's 
under  this  title  which  he  had  seen  in  the  library  of  the 
Franciscans  at  Londcm^,  but  whidi  had  afterwards  dia* 
appeared. 

7.  De^  sepiem  artibu9  liieralibus.  Tanner^  on  the  autho- 
rity of  Boston  of  Bury^  mentions  a  work  of  Athekrd'a 
bearing  tiiia  title,  wxittai  pardy  in  prooe  and  pertly  in 
verse,  and  eoDamencing  with  the  words,  Sapemmera  est 
^pkihsophm^ 

8.  A  treatise  on  the  Ckm^tns^  mentumed  by  Tani^r 
as  having  farmeriy  been  in  the  library  of  the  Earl  a( 
Stamford. 

9.  Tanner  states  that  atract  is  indicated  in  the  old  table 
of  contents  of  a  manuscript  in  the  ICing'a  Library  under 
the  title  Liber  magistri  Adelardi  Bathjoniends  qui  iicttiar 
Mappm  daviatkiy  but  the  tract  itself  had  been  torn  out.t 

words,  Pytagorici  vero  hoc  opus  oomposuenmty  et  ea  quae  magistro  sno  Og- 
tagora  docente  audieranti  &e«. 
•  MS.  Bibl.  Boyale,  Fonda  de  Sk  Victor,  No.  533. 
f  MS.  Anmdely  No.  377»  fol.  69,  t». 

X  Athelard's  worVs  appear  to  have  been  peculiarly  nnfortuiate  in  acci- 
dente  of  tUi  kind.  I  ant  soformcd  by  M.  Chaslea,  thai  the  old  tahle  of 
contents  of  a  MS.  in  the  library  of  Avranches  contains  the  following  titles 
of  tracts  which  haye  been  torn  ont : — 

Astronomioonun  prtestigiomm  Thebidis  secundnm  Ptolomenm  et  Her- 
metem  per  Adelardum  Batfaomensem  ex  Arabico  translatns  Hber  unns. 
Isagoga  minor  Japharis  mathematici  in  astronomiam  per  Adelardnm 
BaUionienBcm  ex  Arabico  sompta,  liber  unns. 

h2 


100  ATHELARD  OF  BATH.   [Flourished  1110-20. 

The  most  important  of  Athelard's  translations  from  the 
Arabic  was, — 

1.  The  Elements  of  Euclid.  This  became  the  text  book 
of  all  succeeding  mathematicians.  The  manuscripts  of 
Athelard's  Euclid  are  numerous.  It  was  afterwards  pub- 
lished with  a  commentary  under  the  name  of  Campanus, 
and  printed  at  Venice  as  early  as  1482.  Mr.  HaUiwell 
has  mentioned  some  reasons  for  believing  that  the  com- 
mentary also  was  in  reality  the  work  of  Athelard**  Dn 
Dee  possessed  a  manuscript  which  contained  translations 
of  Euclid's  Optics  and  Catoptrics  under  the  name  of  Athe- 
lard.f    Athelard  also  translated  the  following  works, — 

2.  The  laagoge  minor  Jafaris  mathematici  in  Astrono^ 
miam^  There  is  a  copy  of  this  work  in  the  Bodleian 
library.J 

3.  Ezich  Elkauresmiy  hoc  est,  tabula  Chatvaresmica  ex 
Arabico  traduct<e.  A  translation  of  the  Kharismian  tables. 
There  is  a  copy  of  this  also  in  the  Bodleian  library.§ 
Leland  mentions  a  work  translated  from  the  Arabic  by 
Athelard  under  the  title  Erith  Elcharetmi,  which  Bale 
and  Boston  of  Bury  give  more  correctly  Ezich-Jafarim  or 
Ezich-Jafaris  I  it  appears  to  be  a  corruption  of  Zydj 
Djafar,  and  was  probably  only  another  name  for  the 
Kharismian  tables. 

4.  The  Prtestigia  astronomica  Thebidis^  which  formerly 
existed  in  a  manuscript  of  the  library  of  Avranches,  indi- 
cated in  a  note  on  the  preceding  page. 

Perhaps  some  other  tracts  of  Athelard  exist  in  manu- 
scripts as  yet  unexamined;  or  pass  as  anonymous  treatises. 
M.  Jourdain  was  inclined  to  attribute  to  him  a  piece  en- 

*  See  Halliwell's  Rara  Mathematica,  p.  57»  where  an  account  is  g;iven 
of  the  principal  MSS.  of  Athelard's  Euclid, 
t  Dr.  Dee's  Diary,  edited  by  HalUwell,  p.  67. 
I  MS.  Digby,  No.  68,  fol.  121. 
§  MS.  Hatton,  No.  US. 


Died  after  1129."]  simeon  of  Durham.  101 

titled  Liber  imbrium  secundum  Indos^  preserved  in  the 
Biblioth^que  Royale  at  Paris.* 

EditioM, 

Sequitar  tabula  btius  Ubelli. .  • . .  •  Incipit  prologns  Adelardi  Bathonienni 
in  soas  questiones  naturales  perdifficiles.  At  the  end,  Ezpliciunt  qaes- 
tiones  natnrales  Adelardi  Bachonienais.  Lana  deo  et  virgini,  AMEN. 
Qui  petit  occnltas  rerum  ag^oscere  causaa  Me  yideat,  quia  sum  IseTis 
ezplanator  earum.  4to.  without  other  title,  or  the  name  of  place  or 
date,  but  printed  in  an  early  shaped  Gothic  type.  There  are  two  dif- 
ferent editiona  answering  to  this  description,  the  one  evidently  a  reprint 
of  the  other.    They  are  both  in  the  British  Museum. 

Martene  and  Durand,  Thesaurus  Notus  Anecdotorum.  Tomus  I.  Lntet. 
Paris,  1717,  fol.  col.  S91.    The  preface  to  the  Naturales  Qosestiones. 

Jourdain,  B«cherches  Critiques  sur  Page  etTorigine  des  Traductions  Latines 
d'Aristote.  Paris,  1819.  Syo.  pp.  494 — 497.  The  dedication  and 
commencement  of  Athelard's  treatise  De  eodem  et  diverso* 


SIMEON  OF  DURHAM. 

All  that  we  know  of  Simeon  is  that  be  was  a  monk  of 
the  monastery  of  Durham^  where  he  held  the  ofBce  of 
precentor.  His  history  of  the  kings  of  England  closes  with 
the  year  1129,  soon  after  which  date  it  is  probable  that  he 
died.  He  appears  to  have  been  a  man  of  no  original  talent, 
for  he  is  not  only  said  to  have  published  Turgof  s  History 
of  Durham  under  his  own  name,  but  a  large  portion  of 
his  own  history  of  the  kings  of  England  is  a  literal  copy  of 
the  Chronicle  of  Florence  of  Worcester.  Simeon's  compi- 
lation is  however  valuable  for  many  details  of  northern 
history,  taken  from  sources  which  are  no  longer  known. 
It  is  difficult  to  describe  the  peculiar  style  of  such  a  com- 
piler as  this,  who  makes  so  free  with  the  property  of  others. 
The  following  observations  on  the  death  of  the  Scottish 
king  Malcolm,  in  1093,  are  perhaps  his  own. 

Rex  Scottorum  Malcholmus  et  primogenitus  filios  egos  Eadwardus  cum 
moltis  aliis  in  Northymbrisi  die  festivitatis  sancti  Bricii,  a  militibus  Rod- 

*  MSS.  Bibl.  Roy.  Nos.  7316  and  7399. 


102  «IMEON  OF  DURHAM.  [Died  (^€r  1129. 

berti  Norflmnbronim  comitu  oecisi  faat.    In  cajus  morte  jostitia  jndicaiitiB 
Dei  aperte  consideraturi  ut  yidelicet  In  ilia  pronnda  cum  mi»  interiret, 
qaam  ssepe  ipse  Tastare  avaritia  Btimtilante  consaevit ;  quinquies  namque  illam 
atroci  depopulatione  attrivit,  et  miseroB  indigenas  in  seiritutem  redigendoB 
abduxit  captivoB.  Semel  Eadwardo  regnante,  qnando  Tosti  comes  Eboracen- 
«M  profectos  Honam  fioM^t.    Itenm  regpante  WfllielmOi  t^riando  etiam 
Clivelandam  depopvlatofl  erft.    Tertio  regnaiite  eodem  rege  WIQielmo  usque 
Tfuam  progreesuB,  post  emdts  honmnim  at  concremationeB  locormn  multa 
c«m  pneda  levertitur.    Quarto  regnante  Willicflmo  jumore,  cum  suis  copiis 
inllDitiB  uaqoe  Ceatftraaa,  mem  longe  a  Donelmo  «tarn,  per^emt,  animo  in- 
tendesB  uUerhiB  progretfi ;  sed  adunate  contra  eum  militari  maun  non  multa 
ascAu  ipso  oitins  rerertitiir.    Chunto  cum  omui  quo  potuH  ezercitu  in  ulti- 
mam  deductunu  deselalloBem  Korthymbriam  inrasit,  'sed  juxta  flumen  Alne 
perimitw  com  primegoBMo  auo  Eadwardo,  quern  hnredem  regni  post  Be 
diflpoMMvat.    ExerdtuB  lUins  tcI  gladlis  confodituTy  vel  qui  gkdios  ftigerunt 
ifwadatAaae  flvBinumy  quK  tone  plu^ras  UemalibuB  plus  soBto  concreverant, 
•btoipti  sunt.    Corpus  vero  teffSf  eum  suorum  nulius  remaneret  qui  terra 
illud  cooperirab,  dncez  Indigeids  carroimpositttmin  TynemnHie  aepcJIierunt. 
Sicque  factum  est  ut  ubi  multos  vita  et  rebus  et  libertate  privaverat,  ibidem 
ipse  Dei  judicio  yitam  simul  cum  rebus  amitteret.    Cujus  morte  cognita, 
regina  Scottorum  Maigareta  tauta  affaofta  «st  tdaHtia,  ut  subito  magnam 
incideret  infirmitatem.    Nee  mora,  presb3rteris  ad  se  accersitisi  ecclesiam  in- 
travlt,  Aiaque  peeoata  sua  4i«AfBBsa,  oko  ae  perungi  ceelefltique  aiumii  viatico 
fecit,  Deum  assiduis  et  precibus  intentissimis  ezorans,  ut  in  bac  «rumnoia 
yita  diutius  illam  vivere  non  permitteret.    Nee  multo  tardins  exaudita  est. 
Nam  post  tres  ^es  ocdnonis  eegis,  flduta  camis  TincuHs,  utcredlturai 
gandia  tnuDaint  setemc  salntifl.    Qnippe  dnm  TiTeret  jaBtitise,  paeia,  et 
caritatis  xniltrlx  extflit  devota,  frequens  in  orationibns  corpus  ««igiliis  et 
Jejuniis  /uaceraTit,  ecclesias  et  monasteria  ditavit,  servos  et  ancillas  Dei 
dUndt  et  bonorant,  esuiientibuB  panem  irangebat,  nudos  restiebat,  omnibus 
f)ere^nis  ad  se  venientibus  bospitia,  yeatimeiiita,  et  a]iiBentapriBb^bat,<et 
Deum  tota  mente  diligebat.    Qna  mortua  Dufenaldum  regis  Malcbolmi 
fratrem  -Scdtta  sibi  in  regem  degerunt,  et  omnes  Anglos  qui  de  curia  regis 
cftttteiBit,  de  Sootia  expuleriBt. 

Twywden,  who  gaT«  an  «dition  of  Simeon's  edition  of 
Tnrgot,  and  of  hie  Hstory  of  the  Smglish  Idngs^  also  printed 
a  letter  fvom  Simeon  to  Hugh  dean  of  York,  containing  an 
Accoont  of  the  «rchbiflhops  of  that  «ee. 


i 

I 


Historise  Anglicanse  Scriptores  X  ...  ex  Vetustis  ManuscripUs  nunc  pri- 
mumtnlucem  editi.  (by  Twysden)  Londini,  1652,  fol.  colL  1^58, 
Simeoms,  monacbi  Dunelmensisy  Historia  de  Dunelmensi  £cclesia«— 
coll.  75«»82,  Epifttola  Simeoxuf  moDaehi  •  •  .  nd  Hugonem  decanum 


Died  lill4.'\  qilbert^  bishop  of  london.  lOt 

EWnoenson  4e  arohiepiiociiif  Eborad. — coll.  85—8(6,  fibDeonis 
Doiielmeiiaia  fiutoria  de  gestis  regom  Anglomn. 

Symeonifl  monachi  Danhelmensis  libellns  de  ezordio  atqae  procursu  Dvn- 
hdnoiinfl  cocnflUB*  Ou  pncmiCtilur  rcvcimcH.  Tin  xhointB  nad  cnidita 
dtflquisitio,  im  qvaprabatur  nonTaiipotiim,  sed  Symoonan  ftusae  venua 
hnjuB  libelli  «uctorem.  E  oodice  MS.  perantiquo  in  Bibliotbeea  pnb- 
lica  Episcopomm  Dnnbelmensium  deflcripsit  ediditque  Thomas  Bedford. 
A^eoedunt)  prater  alia,  ex  codiee  Hifftorie  Dmihelmenmum  episcopo- 
nun  Ck>iitiiiiiafio :  et  libellM  de  iajvata  Texatioae  Willelmi  I.  epiaoopi^ 
nimc  primam  editos.    Londini,  1 733.    8to. 

Collectioii  of  Historians  edited  by  order  of  tbe  Record  Commission,  vol.  1. 
pp.  €45—688, 6i»6onis  Dcnehncasis  Hktoria  de  Gestis  Begom  Anglo- 
nun,  ab  A.D.  VCXVl.  adnique  A.D.  DCCCC.LYII. 


GILBERT  BISHOP  OP  LONDON. 

This  prelate,  who  from  the  diversity  of  his  learning 
obtained  the  title  of  Gflbertus  Universalis^  is  said  to 
have  been  a  native  of  Bretagne.*^  He  appears  among 
the  clergy  of  Auxerre  as  early  as  the  year  1 110,  when  his 
name  occurs  as  one  of  the  witneBses  to  a  deed  of  the  abbey 
of  Fleury,  with  the  title  of  magister,  which  seems  to  show 
that  he  then  directed  the  schools  of  Auxerre,  as  we  know 
he  did  those  of  Nevers  when  he  was  called  to  the  bishopric 
of  London  in  1 127.t  We  know  little  further  of  his  history, 
except  that  he  died  at  an  advanced  age  on  the  other  side 
of  the  Alps,  in  his  way  to  Rome,  llie  date  of  Grilbert's 
death  appears  to  be  somewhat  doubtful ;  Wharton  %  places 
it  on  the  10th  of  Atigust,  1134;  but  tbe  oontinuator  of 
Florence  of  Worcester  gives  1138  as  the  year  of  his  decease, 
and  an  authority  quoted  by  Iceland  fixes  it  in  1139.§ 

*  Ridiard  of  Poitien,  ap.  Martene,  Ampl.  Col.  toI.  t.  col.  1179* 

t  Hiat.  Lit.  de  F^rance,  torn.  si.  p.  936. 

X  De  Epiic  London,  p.  51. 

%  Conf.  Tanner,  Biblioth.  p.  318,  and  Godwin*  de  Epise^ 


104  AiLMER.  [Z)ierfll37. 

• 

Even  the  character  of  bishop  Gilbert  is  diflFerently 
represented,  St.  Bernard,  who  corresponded  with  him, 
speaks  in  the  highest  terms  of  his  exemplary  poverty  and 
of  his  charity ;  *  while  Henry  of  Huntingdon,  who  was 
also  his  contemporary,  charges  him  with  avarice  and  extor- 
tion, and  says  that  a  vast  sum  was  found  in  his  treasury 
after  his  death,  which  was  seized  by  the  king,  because  he 
died  without  a  testament.  The  old  writers  are,  however, 
imanimous  with  regard  to  his  great  learning.  The  au- 
thor just  cited  declares  that  there  was  not  his  equal  in 
science  on  this  side  of  Rome.f  Yet  the  only  writings 
attributed  to  him  are  a  gloss  on  the  whole  Bible,  said  to 
have  been  composed  while  he  resided  at  Auxerre,  which 
the  writers  of  the  Histoire  Litteraire  de  France  speak  of 
as  being  extant  in  the  last  century ;  and  glosses  on  some 
detached  books  of  Scripture,  viz.  the  Lamentations,  the 
Psalter,  and  the  Song  of  Solomon. 


AILMER. 

AiLMBR,  Aelmer,  or  Ealmer  (the  name  is  differently 
spelt)  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  ascetic  writers  of 
the  reign  of  Henry  I.  All  we  know  of  his  personal 
history  at  present  appears  to  be  that  he  was  made  prior 

*  Epist.  S*  Bemardi,  Ep.  xziv. 

t  Quid  memorem  Gislebertum  cognomine  Uniyenalemi  episcopum  Lun- 
doniensem  ?  Non  fuit  ad  usque  Romam  par  ei  scientia.  Artibus  erat  era- 
ditisaimus,  theoria  singularU  et  unicua  ;  fama  igitur  Celebris  et  splendidus. 
Quapropter  dum  scholas  regeret  in  Nivernis  Gallis,  ad  summum  Lundoniee 
Bacerdotium  yocatus  est,  et  exoratus  accessit.  Qui  magna  ezpectatione  bus- 
ceptus,  coepit  ayaritife  crimine  deservire :  multa  perquirens,  pauca  largiens. 
Moriens  siquidem  nihil  divisit.  Sed  infinitam  thesauri  copiam  rex  Hen- 
ricus  in  ejus  delitiis  invenit.  Ocrese  etiam  eptscopi  auro  et  argento  refertse 
in  fiscum  regium  allata:  sunt.  Unde  yir  summse  scientise  ab  omni  populo 
habitus  est  pro  stultissimo.  Henr.  Hunt.  Epi«t.  ad  Walteram,  ap.  Wharton, 
Angl.  Sac.  p.  698* 


BADUIiPH^   ARCHBISHOP   OF   CANTERBURY.  105 

of  Canterbury  in  1128^  and  that  he  died  on  the  11th  of 
May,  1137*  Few  of  his  writings  are  now  preserved, 
unless  they  lie  concealed  in  some  of  the  cathedral  libraries. 
A  manuscript  in  the  Cottonian  library,  now  nearly  de- 
stroyed by  the  fire^f  contained  his  epistles  to  different 
monks  of  his  house  or  neighbourhood ;  and  another  copy 
is  preserved  in  the  library  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge4 
His  other  works  were,  a  book  of  sermons  or  homilies,  and  a 
treatise  in  five  books,  De  exerciiiis  spiritualis  vita,  both 
which  works  were  seen  by  Leland  in  the  monastery  of  St. 
Augustine  at  Canterbury ;  and  different  treatises,  entitled, 
De  bono  vita  claustralis,  Recordationes  beneficiorum  Dei, 
Contra  hi^us  mundi  miserias,  De  inquisitione  Dei,  and  De 
absentia  vultus  Dei,  enumerated  by  Bale,  who  gives  the 
first  words  of  each. 


Minor  Writers  op  the  reign  of  Henrt  I. 

Radulph  bishop  of  Rochester,  and  afterwards  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  whom  John  of  Bromton  calls 
Radulph  de  Turbine,§  is  known  as  the  author  of  a  col- 
lection of  homilies  still  extant.  ||  We  learn  from  William 
of  Malmsbury,1i  that  he  had  been  first  a  monk,  and  after- 
wards successively  subprior,  prior,  and  abbot  of  S^es,  in 
Normandy,  from  whence  he  was  driven  by  the  tyranny  of 
Robert  de  Belesme.  On  his  arrival  in  England  he  lived 
as  a  guest  in  different  abbeys,  and  in  the  household  of 

*  See  Wharton,  Angl.  Sacr.  vol.  i.  p.  137. 

t  Otho  A.  XII. 

X  MS.  Gale,  Trio.  CoU.  Cant.  O.  10,  16. 

§  See  Anglia  Sacra,  vol.  i.  p.  763. 

II  In  a  MS.  in  the  Bodleian  library,  MS.  Land,  D.  49. 

\  Vf.  Malmsb.  de  Pontif.  lib.  i.  p.  230,  who  gives  a  detailed  account  of 
hia  epifcopate.  It  is  not  probable  that,  aa  Tanner  seems  to  have  supposed, 
he  was  the  same  person  aa  the  Radulph  monk  of  Caen,  who  accompanied 
Lanfiranc  to  England,  and  was  made  abbot  of  Battle, 


106  vi€»oi«A«9  FBIO&  or  woiucEansaL. 

archUshop  Ansdm,  idth  wIknh  he  liad  been  oa  temui 
of  mtanaey  in  hisifovdi,  until  the  death  of  bishop  Giutdvif 
in  IIO85  iviien  Aneelm  obteiiied  for  lum  the  Tjishopne  <if 
Bochestor,  whence^  mx.  yean  «fterwards^  fae  was  dectod  to 
sveceed  his  patron  as  «xvhbwhop  of  CanteriMuy»  He  died 
on  the  20tii  of  October,  1122,  Williun  of  Malmsbnrp 
who  was  his  contemporary,  bears  witness  to  bis  piety,  his 
learning,  and  his  liberality.*  Ser^ral  letters  «of  this  prelate, 
dhiefly  relating  to  Eadmer,  are  printed  in  the  ConeHki  of 
Wilkins.t  Much  of  his  time  was  occnpied  in  llie  disputes 
with  l%unrtan  of  Yoik  conemning  the  primacy, 

Nicholas  piior  of  Worcester  is  only  known  to  us  as  the 
writer  of  two  tracts  or  letters  addressed  to  Eadmer,  on 
the  claims  of  the  archbishops  of  York  to  primacy  over  the 
Scotish  bishopric  of  St.  Andrew's,  and  on  the  mother  of 
king  Edward  the  Confessor.|  Nicholas  was  of  Anglo- 
Saxon  blood,  and  had  been  baptised  by  bishop  Wulstan^ 
whose  &v0«r  be  enjoyed  undl  that  prelate's  deaths  After 
having  reeeiTed  his  ^rlier  lessons  in  litranrture  from  Wvir 
Stan's  own  lips,  Nicholas  was  sent  to  Canterbury  to  profit 
by  Hie  teaching  of  Lanf  rane,  where  probably  he  became 
aoquainted  with  Eadmer*  fie  was  made  prior  of  W(n*ce8- 
ter  under  bishop  Tlieulph,  who  aucoeeded  Sumpson  in  tiie 
see  of  Worceeter  in  1115*  Nicholas  died  on  the  24dt  of 
June,  1184.  WilHam  of  Makaebury,  to  whom  we  owe  all 
our  informatioB  coaaoermng  Nidiobs,  frequently  dtes  his 
oral  testimony  in  his  life  of  Wulstan^  and  describes  him  as 


*  Religione  impar  nnllii  peritia  ikenunua  nafpaifica  poUau^  aflhfailitate 
certe  facile  omnium  Drimafl,  qui  fortunariHn  amptitncUne  niiul  plug  ju;%m- 
sierity  nisi  at  plus  beffefacere  poBaet  quibiu  vdlet.    W.  liahnsb.  ib«  p.  83S. 

t  Wilkina,  CodcU.  toL  i.  pp.  394—396. 

t  PreseiTed  in  MS.  Corp.  Chr.  CoUoga»  Camhridgey  No.  371»  arts.  3 
and  4.  The  one  relating  to  the  primacy  of  the  bighops  of  Tork  ia  printed 
in  the  Anglia  Sacra»  toL  ii*pp.  334—^6« 


«RTOFFRST.     «BNSDIOT.  lOf 

a  nami  whose  seal  for  learning  had  done  nmcli  towards 
introducing  a  taste  for  letters  among  the  monks  of 
Worcester.* 

OfiOTPRBTj  ^ftj  aooordix^  to  some^  Stephen^i'  dean  of 
Ijandflff^  Was  brolifeer  of  Uraanifs^  who  had  been  made 
bishop  isf  LAndaff  in  HOT?  at  tiie  age  of  tiurty-two.  He 
was  preaental;  the  translation  of  the  vemaiAs  of  St.  Dabri- 
«nis  in  liflfd.  He  is  known  chiefly  by  alife  of  Ae  Wehh 
«aint  TeliavHS  or  Teilo ;  batfsvaidtohaTeahoeoffipiled, 
at  the  ivfoei*  of  his  brolftm,  the  Register  ^  lihe  Chnreh 
^  Laadaff,  whidi  hem  been  iwea^  pmbfiidied. 

J^glUSMMu  (Bditod  bf  H.  Wkaitas.)  Bus  «aetata.  LMia.l€»l,M. 
pp.  663-^66.  Vita  S.  TeUavi  epiaoopi  IjandaTeniify  «authore  Galfrido 
afias  atephano  LandavenBi. 

Tb/t  Ubsr  Trasiwrwida,  l^yk'Nk^y'^  te-asslefAyfegiflter  of lifae Cathedna 
«hwrdi  of  TilmJaff;  rramJiSS.in  «he  UbnuiBa  of  Ufoaipnk,  aadaf 
Jeans  College,  Oxford :  with  an  English  Translation  and  ezplanatorf 
noteSi  l>y  the  "Rey.  W.  J.  Rees.  Published  for  Che  Welsh  MSS.  Society. 
lAnidowBryy  ISSO.    6^. 

Contonporarjr  with  Oeafeey  «of  landad^  U^ed  another 
writer  of  the  aame  olaas,  Bbvbdsct  monk  of  fit  Peter's  at 
GckNioester^  to  whom  we  owe  a  life  ef  fit.  Dufatkhuu  As 
in  daat  wvnk  he  deaerihes  the  traaslatm^  libe  vemsnis  of 
DubriesM^  whsA  took  place  in  lldQ,  it «s  «apposed  HMt 
htt  Shfe  of  Ihdmciiis  was  pdiUished  «hoiliy  trftor  thaft 
date  iX  but  we  have  no  other  information  respeeling  hiai. 

BdUUm. 
Ani^Ua  8aeia«    (fifited  ^\ff  fionry  Wfaaiton.)    IPars  aeciinda.    liond.  16.91^ 

•  W.  Mahnsb.  de  Vit.  S.  Wnlstani,  lib.  iii.  c.  17,  ap.  Wharton,  Angl. 


t  iBthettftetoUBbookdiiMa.Ootlon.  Vatpa8.A.iitir.heisBpokea«C 
as  6a]frido>  i.  e.  Stephano,  Urbani  Landavensis  qnBcopi  firatri. 
4  WhuftSB»  4Ae^  Sacra,  voU  IL  p.  scvtt.  (Fnefiit.) 


108  DAVID   OF   BANGOR.      GILBERT. 

fol.  pp.  644 — 661.    Vita  S.  Dubricii  Archiepiscopi  Urbis  Legionum. 
Authore  Benedicto  monacbo  Claudiocestrensi. 

Another  literary  Welsh  bishop  of  this  period^  although 
by  birth  a  Scotchman,  was  David  of  Bangor.  It  appears 
that  he  left  his  native  country  in  search  of  learning,  and 
settled  at  Wurzburg,  in  Germany,  where  he  attracted  the 
attention  of  the  emperor  Henry  V.,  who  made  him  one  of 
his  chaplains.  Henry,  having  succeeded  his  father  in  1 106, 
continued  his  hostilities  against  the  pope,  and,  invading 
Italy  in  1111,  made  the  sovereign  pontiff  his  captive,  and 
forced  him  to  concede  his  demands  relating  to  the  German 
churches.  David  was  employed  by  the  emperor  to  write 
the  history  of  this  expedition,  in  which  William  of  Malms- 
bury  informs  us  that  he  exhibited  too  much  partiality  for 
his  imperial  patron;*  a  circumstance  which  probably 
has  hindered  it  from  being  preserved,  for  neither  this  nor 
any  other  of  his  writings  are  now  known  to  be  extant. 
On  his  return  to  his  native  island,  David  was  made  bishop 
of  Bangor  in  1 120.  He  is  mentioned  by  the  continuator  of 
Florence  of  Worcester  as  being  alive  in  1125,  after  which 
we  have  no  information  relating  to  him.  Bale,  with- 
out any  apparent  authority,  attributes  to  him  three  other 
works  under  the  titles,  Magiatratuum  insignia^  lib.  i.,  Apo- 
loffium  ad  Caaarem,  lib.  i.,  De  Regno  Scottorum^  lib.  i. 
Dempster  states  incorrectly  that  there  were  some  of  his 
works  amongst  the  manuscripts  of  Corpus  Christi  college, 
Cambridgcf 

We  may  add  to  the  foregoing  list  of  minor  writers  Giii- 
BERT  archdeacon  of  Buckingham,  to  which  office  he  was 

*  Sediter  illudad  Romam....  David  Scottus  Bancornensis  epUcoput 
expoBuit,  magis  in  regis  gratiam  quam  historicum  deceret  acclivus.  W. 
Malmsb.  de  Hist.  Reg.  lib.  v.  p.  166. 

t  See  Tanner,  and  the  continuator  of  Florence  of  Woroester,  ad  an.  Uj^. 


OEOFFRETr     THOMAS  OF  BATEUX.  109f 

appointed  by  Robert  bishop  of  Lincohi^  who  died  in  the 
beginning  of  1123.  He  was  succeeded,  probably  on  his 
death,  by  Roger,  who  was  made  bishop  of  Chester  in  1129* 
Gilbert  is  only  known  to  us  through  Henry  of  Huntingdony 
who  says  that  he  had  written  in  verse  and  in  prose.* 

Early  in  the  reign  of  Henry  I.  Geoffrey,  a  Norman 
scholar  of  the  University  of  Paris,  was  invited  to  England 
by  Richard  abbot  of  St.  Alban's,  to  superintend  the  school 
of  Dunstable.  He  there  composed  a  play  of  St.  Katharine 
{ludum  8.  KcUherifue),  written  without  doubt  in  Latin, 
which  was  acted  by  his  scholars,  and  he  borrowed  copes 
from  the  sacrist  of  St.  Alban's  to  dress  the  characters.f 
This  is  the  earliest  mention  of  a  dramatic  piece  acted  in 
England.  In  1119,  Geoffrey  was  elected  abbot  of  St. 
Alban's.     He  died  in  1146. 

Two  archbishops  of  York  during  this  reign  enjoyed 
some  literary  reputation.  Thomas  of  Bayeux,  the  nephew 
of  the  first  archbishop  Thomas,  after  being  one  of  the 
king's  chaplains,  was  made  archbishop  of  York  in  1 109^ 
and  died  in  1114.  He  is  said  to  have  imitated  his  uncle  in 
composing  hymns  for  the  pubUc  service  of  the  church,  and 
Bale  also  attributes  to  him  an  Offidarium  ^'usdem  ecclesia. 

Thurstan,  his  successor,  was  one  of  the  few  English 
clergy  of  that  age  who  were  elevated  to  dignities  in  the 
church.  He  had  been  previously  a  canon  of  St.  Paul's 
and  one  of  the  king's  chaplains.  On  his  election  he  re- 
vived the  old  dispute  concerning  the  primacy,  and  after 
much  trouble  was  consecrated  by  the  pope  in  1119,  with- 

*  Bachingeham  prseposait  Alaredam  parvum,  cui  successit  Gislebertus, 
yeraibus  et  prosa  et  habitn  curialissimus,  quibus  saccessit  Rogerus  jam  Ces- 
trensis  episcopus  effectus.  Henr.  Hunt.  Epist.  ad  Walteram,  ap.  Angl. 
Sac.  Tol.  ii.  p.  696.  Tanner  enters  Gilbert  in  hia  Bibliotheca  under  the 
name  Doreadiua  {GUberttuJ. 

t  Mattb.  Paris,  Vit.  Abbat.  p.  56.  Conf.  Warton,  Hist,  of  English  Poetry, 
vol.  i.  p.  cxii. 


110  TBirMTAll.     WSPHBN* 

ont  htfniig  taken  the  oath  of  subadaaion  to  the  see  of 
Cantexburj.  But  the  kbig  and  archhidiop  of  Caatei- 
bury  weie  with  diffienltj  eompdled  by  die  threats  ol 
the  pope  lo  allow  Um  to  take  poaBCKsum  of  hiaaee.*  Oa 
the  2Ist  of  Juwarj  1140,  Thuntan  lesigned  the  and^ 
bjahiiipiic^  and  letiicd  to  the  aUbej  of  Ponftefract^  where 
be  Aed  on  Ibe  5th  ol  February  fottowing.  He  wrote  a 
long  epntle  to  WilUam  archbifdiop  of  Cantesfaury,  on  the 
oaigin  of  Fountains  abbey^  whidi  k  printed  iot  the  Mo» 
naaticon.  Hie  CamtiiHHo  4e  deUtis  ekriearmn  d^fimei^- 
rwm  was  prmted  by  WiUdnekt  Bale  attributes  to  hi»  two 
other  works,  De  9Uo  pnmaiM  wl  CmlMtum  jMjpafn^  lihw  L 
and  Contra  Junkrem  AMsdmum^  Ub.  i,  which  perhaps 
never  existed. 

Stephen,  abbot  first  of  Whsdiy  and  afterwards  ol  St. 
Mary^s  at  York,  has  left  e  short  history  of  the  fbnndation 
of  the  htst-mentioBed  abbey,  iriuch  is  printed  in  the  M(»ia»* 
ticoD,  under  the  name  of  Sbnon  of  WarwhdL  Thewzitere 
of  the  Literary  History  of  FrsnoehaJtre  slated  good  reaaau 
lor  beheving  that  this  man  was  a  native  of  Britany  or 
Normandy :  he  was  the  friend  of  Ahui,  sen  of  Ehido^  duke 
of  Britany.  He  went  to  Whiitby  in  1078^  and,  being 
driven  thence  with  his  monks  by  the  persecutions  of  WU- 
Ham  de  I%rcy,  he  established  himself  at  York  in  1088,  and 
remained  there  till  his  death  in  1112.  He  wes  in  fevonr 
with  WilKam  the  Conquer<nr  and  Wililiam  Rufus,  and  the 
latter  was  a  patron  of  his  abbey  of  York4 

*  See  W.  Malmsb.  de  Gest.  Pontif.  p.  275,  and  Godwin  de  Epucopii. 
OrdericuB  Yittlis,  p.  858. 
t  Condi.  Mag.  Brit,  et  Hib.  voL  i.  p.  412. 
t  See  the  HiaU  lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  x.  p.  16. 


Ill 


SacsiON  ui.*— Ths  KBunr  of  Sranix». 

ORDEBiCUS  VITALI8. 

Oadebicu»  was  bori^  as  he  infonns  u%*  on  &e  I7tb 
of  Febroary^  1075^  at  the  vUlage  of  Attingeaham.  (now 
AtGbaitt)^  on  tiie  banks  of  the  Sevens  about  three  milea 
from  Shrewsbury.  His  father  Odeleriua  was  a  married 
priest,  and  quitted  his  Dative  city  of  Orieans  to  accom- 
pany Roger  de  Montgomery  to  England^  who  presented  him 
to  the  chuordi  of  Shrewsbury.  The  child  was  bqptissed  by 
OrdericuSy  the  priest  of  Attingesham,  from  whom  he  re^ 
ceived  hia  name.  At  the  age  of  five  yeaia  he  waa  eur- 
trusted  to  the  care  of  another  pnest  named  Seward,  to  be 
mstrocted  in  the  rudiments  of  learning»  and  remained 
with  him  tiU  Ids  teoth  yeaar,  when  he  waa  trawfiened  to 
ibe  care  of  a  monk  of  the  name  of  Raynald^  who  carried 
him  to  N<«nandy  in  1085,  for  the  purpose  of  dedi- 
cating him  to  a  mcmastie  life  in  the  abbey  of  Ouche 
(Uticum)  or  St.  Evroult  in  the  diocese  of  lisieux*  He 
soon  made  rapid  advances  in  the  favour  of  his  abbot  Mai- 
neriu8>  and  of  all  the  brotherhood;  his  education  waa 
entrusted  to  the  subprior,  John ;  and  iu  108fi  he  received 
the  tonsnre  and  the  monastic  habit,  on  which  occasion  he 
changed  his  name  of  Qrderifeus  for  that  of  Yitalis»  the 
saint  on  whose  festival  he  became  a  monk.  He  was 
ordained  a  sub-deaoom  at  the  age  of  sisUeen,  and  dea- 
con two  years  later.  Fifteen  years  afterwards,  in  his 
thirty-tliird  year,  a.  b.  1107^  he  was  made  a  priest.    A 

«  At  tfa»  btginmps  of  the  fifOk  book  of  bw  Uitory.    AU  ow  matoiali  for 
the  life  of  Ordericns  are  found  in  his  own  writings. 


112  ORDERICtTS  VITALIS,  [Bom  1075. 

considerable  portion  of  his  life  appears  to  have  been 
spent  in  collecting  materials  for  his  History^  and  it  seems 
that  he  visited  England  several  times  with  this  object.^ 
All  that  we  know  relating  to  his  death  is  that  it  must 
have  occurred  subsequently  to  1143^  as  events  of  that 
year  are  mentioned  in  his  writings. 

The  thirteen  books  of  the  Ecclesiastical  History^  as  he 
has  entitled  it^  of  Ordericus  YitaUs,  (for  he  is  generally 
cited  by  both  names^)  exhibit  many  marks  of  having  been 
composed  at  different  periods,  and  also  of  having  been 
retouched  subsequently  to  their  first  publication.  The  first 
two  books  form  in  themselves  a  complete  work^  consisting 
of  a  chronicle  from  the  birth  of  Christ  to  his  own  time^  in 
which  Ordericus  dwells  chiefly  on  the  history  of  the  church. 
This  portion  of  the  history,  which  was  commenced,  as 
he  tells  us,  at  the  desire  of  his  abbot  Roger^  and  there- 
fore previous  to  the  year  1123  (when  he  resigned),  is  dedi- 
cated to  his  successor,  abbot  Guarin,  who  died  in  1 137 ;  it 
was  probably  completed  in  1136,  at  which  date  the  second 
book  concludes.  Yet  before  the  last  paragraph  we  find 
an  account  of  events  which  happened  in  1138  and  1139, 
and  under  the  date  1136  is  an  allusion  to  the  captivity 
of  king  Stephen  in  1141 .  These,  as  weU  as  the  concluding 
paragraphs  of  a  chronology  of  the  popes,  brought  down 
to  the  year  1 142,  must  have  been  added  to  the  original 
compilation  at  a  later  period. 

It  is  clear  that  the  third,  fourth,  fifth,  and  sixth  books, 
also  formed  originally  a  distinct  work.  They  contain  the 
history  of  the  wars  of  the  Normans  in  England,  France, 
and  Apulia,  down  to  the  death  of  William  the  Conqueror, 

*  He  speaks,  on  one  occasion,  of  having  examined  an  historical  book  at 
Worcester.  Unum  eonim  [codicum]  Wigomse  vidi  in  Anglia.  lib.  iii.  tub 
fine.  He  also  visited  Croyland,  of  the  history  of  which  he  gives  some 
details. 


Died  a/ier  114S.]    ordericus  vitaus.  113 

with  that  of  most  of  the  Norman  bishoprics  and  monas- 
teries. These  three  books  were  also  dedicated  to  the 
abbot  Guarin.  It  is  probable  that  they  were  published 
before  any  other  portion  of  the  work ;  for  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  fifth  book  Orderic  speaks  of  having  written 
previously  no  more  than  two  books  (the  third  and  fourth 
of  his  work  as  it  now  stands)^  and  calls  that  he  was 
then  commencing  the  third.*  At  the  end  of  the  fourth 
book  the  author  teUs  us  that  he  was  obliged  to  discon- 
tinue his  work  by  the  approaching  rigours  of  winter ;  and 
at  the  commencement  of  the  fifth  book  he  states  that  he 
had  then  been  a  monk  forty-two  years,  which,  by  com- 
parison with  the  other  dates  he  gives  us  connected  with 
his  own  life,  proves  that  he  wrote  that  book  in  the  year 
1128.  The  sixth  book  appears  to  have  been  written,  or 
at  least  completed,  about  the  year  1135. 

The  third  part  of  the  work,  consisting  of  the  remaining 
seven  books,  continues  the  history  from  the  death  of 
William  the  Conqueror  to  a.d.  1141.  It  commences  with 
a  brief  chronology  of  the  kings  of  France  to  the  time  of 
William^s  death.  This  part  of  the  work  appears  to  have 
been  composed  at  different  periods,  perhaps  in  fragments, 
which  were  afterwards  joined  together  and  revised.  The 
ninth  book  appears,  by  internal  evidence,  to  have  been 
written  in  1129.  In  the  tenth  book,  which  ends  with  the 
year  1101,  we  find  allusions  connected  with  the  year 
1133.  The  twelfth  book  was  written  in  1138,  for  Orderi- 
cus states  there  that  Hugh  de  Montfort  had  been  in  prison 
fourteen  years  at  the  time  he  wrote  it,  and  we  know  that 
that  nobleman  was  committed  to  prison  in  1 1 24,     In  the 

*  Jam  duos  opitalante  Deo  libellos  edidi,  quiboB  de  raparatione  sedia 
nostne  et  de  tribus  abbatibus  nostris. . . .  Amodo  tertium  ab  anno  in- 
carnationis  Dominicae  M°lxx**v''  libellum  exordiar.  Ord.  Vit.  Hist.  Eccl. 
lib.  y.  S  1. 

VOL.  II.  I 


114  ORDKRICUS  YITALIS.  [Bom  1075* 

same  book  Ordericns  applies  a  prophecy  of  Merlin,  and 
quotes  it  in  the  words  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth ;  this 
must  haTe  been  added  after  the  publication  of  Geoffrey's 
▼crsion  of  Meiiin's  prophecies,  which  appeared  some  time 
before  the  same  writer's  History  of  the  Britons. 

On  the  whole,  the  thirteen  books  of  Ordmcus  VitaHs 
form  one  of  the  most  raluable  of  our  old  historical  works. 
The  eaiiier  part  of  his  compilation  is  nearly  all  taken  from 
the.common  authorities  for  ecclesiastical  history,  which,  as 
well  as  the  works  of  the  historians  of  his  own  time  and  of 
the  ages  which  immediately  preceded  it,  he  seems  to  hare 
sought  and  used  with  great  diligence ;  but  he  is  rich  in 
original  information  on  the  history  of  Normandy  and 
England,  during  the  period  which  followed  the  accession  of 
William  the  Conqueror  to  the  English  throne.  The 
greatest  faults  of  Ordericus  as  a  writer  are  his  want  of 
system  and  method,  and  his  frequent  episodes  and  in- 
terruptions. He  is  also  often  inaccurate,  even  in  the 
events  of  his  own  time,  in  dates  and  in  minor  details ; 
and  in  more  than  one  instance  he  gives  different  dates  for 
the  same  event  in  different  parts  of  his  book,  an  error 
into  which  he  was  liable  to  fall  by  his  desultory  manner 
of  writing.  His  Latinity,  without  possessing  any  great 
excellency,  is  that  of  a  man  of  learning  and  education. 
The  following  is  his  account  of  the  coronation  of  William 
the  Conqueror. 

Deniqne  anno  ab  incarnatione  Domini  Mlxvii^  [i.  e.  1066'!^]  indictione  v*. 
in  die  natalis  Domini,  Angli  Landoni»  ad  ordinandnm  regem  oooTenenrnty 
et  Normannorum  tnrme  circa  monasterium  in  annia  et  equia  (ne  qnid  doU 
et  seditionis  oriretur)  prasaidio  dispoaitae  fuerunt.  Adelredus  itaque  archie- 
piaoopna  in  basilica  Sancti  Petri  apostolomm  principis,  quae  Westmonas- 
terinm  nuncupatur,  ubi  Eduardus  rex  venerabiliter  humatna  quiesdt,  in 
prttsentia  prsaolum  et  abbatum,  procemmqae  totina  regni  AttMonia,  Gnil- 

1  '^"  I       II..  ..I..  .  .1       ..   ■■  I       M       .      ■!.  ..I  ..^    I.    ■    «.I  ■         I  II 

*  A«eording  to  the  style  of  computation  uaed  by  Orderiena,  Cfariatmas 
Day  was  the  first  day  of  the  year  1067. 


Died  after  lUS.]     ordericus  vitalis.  115 

lermQitt  dncem  Nonn&tmomm  in  regem  Anglonun  conMcniTit,  et  cUadema 
r^nm  capiti  ejus  imposuif .  Interea,  instigaiite  Satana,  qm  bonis  omnibua 
contrarius  est,  importana  res  ntrique  populo,  et  portenhxm  fatnne  calami- 
tatisi  ez  improviso  exortiun  est.  Nam  dum  Adelredus  prsesul  alloqueretur 
Anglos,  et  Goisfredus  Constantiniensw  Normannos»  an  concederent  Gnil- 
lelmum  regnare  super  se,  et  universi  consensum  hilarem  protestarentor  una 
▼006,  non  nnius  ItngusB  locutione,  armati  milites;  qui  extrinsecns  erant  pro 
raonim  tnitionei  mox  ut  Tocirerationem  gandentis  in  eccleaia  populi  et  ignotse 
lingntt  strepitnm  andierant,  rem  sinistrara  arbitrati,  flamraam  tedibns  im- 
prndenter  injecerunt.  Currente  festinanter  per  domos  incendio,  plebs  quae 
in  ecclesia  Isetabatur  perturbata,  et  multitudo  virorum  ac  mulierum  divers» 
dignitatis  et  qualitatis  infortunio  perurgente  celeritur  basilicam  egressa  est. 
Soli  preesules  et  pauci  clerici  cum  monachis  nimium  trepidantes  ante  aram 
perstiterunt,  et  officium  consecrationis  super  regem  vehementer  trementem  rix 
peregerunt,  aliique  pene  omnes  ad  ignem  nimis  furentem  cucurrerunt,  quidam 
nt  vim  foci  viriliter  oocarent,  et  piures  ut  in  tanta  perturbatione  sibi  prndas 
diriperent.  Angli  factionem  tarn  insperatae  rei  dimetientes  nimis  irati  sunt, 
et  postea  Normannoa  semper  suspectos  habuerunt,  et  infidos  sibi  dqudicantes 
ultionis  tempus  de  eis  optaverunt. 

Dr.  Lappenberg,  who  has  given  a  particular  and  detailed 
account  of  the  historical  work  of  Ordericus^  and  of  the 
sources  of  his  information,^  observes  that  it  appears  to 
have  been  very  little  known  in  the  Middle  Ages.  Cam- 
den, in  his  Collection  of  Historical  Writers,  printed  from 
a  manuscript  at  Caen  an  anonymous  piece,  under  the  title 
De  WiUielmo  Conquestare  Fragmentumy  which  is  nothing 
more  than  a  portion  of  the  seventh  book  of  Ordericus 
Vitalis.  The  entire  work  was  first  printed  in  the  collection 
of  Duchesne  in  1619;  but  no  person  had  undertaken  a 
separate  edition  before  the  very  excellent  one  now  in 
progress  of  publication  by  M.  Le  Prevost. 

Historise  Normannomm  Scriptores  Antiqui.  •  •  •  Ex  MSS.  Codd.  omnia 
fere  nunc  primum  edidit  Andreas  Duchesnius  Turonensis.  Lutetiee 
Parisiomro,  1619.  fol.  pp.  321 — 925.  Orderici  Vitalis  Angligense, 
coenobii  Uticensis  monacbi,  Historiae  Ecclesiasticfe  fibii  xiii. 

Orderici  Vitalis  Angligens,  coenobii  Uticensis  monacbi,  Historiae  Ecelesl- 
astice  libii  tredecim ;  ex  veteris  codicis  Uticensis  coUatione  emendavit, 


*  Gkschichte  von  England,  vol.  ii.  pp.  378 — 393. 

I2 


116  EGBERT  DB    RETINES,    [FfowmAerf  1143. 

et  suas  animadvereiones  adjecit  Augustus  le  PreYOst.  Tomus  Primus. 
Parisiis,  1838.  Tomus  Secundus.  ib.  1840.  In  the  coarse  of  publication 
by  the  Society  de  THistoire  de  France. 

TVanaiation. 

Orderic  Vital,  Histoire  de  Normandie.  4  vols.  8vo.  Paris,  1825 — 1827. 
Translated  by  M.  Louis  Dubois,  and  forming  the  twenty^fifth  and  fol- 
lowing volumes  of  the  '  Collection  dcs  M^moires '  published  under  the 
direction  of  M.  Guizot. 


ROBERT  DE  RETINES. 

The  first  Englishman  after  Athelard,  as  far  as  we  can 
discover,  who  travelled  among  the  Arabs  to  indulge  his 
ardour  in  the  pursuit  of  science  was  Robert  de  Retines.* 
Leland  tells  us,  but  without  stating  any  authority,  that  he 
studied  first  in  England,  and  that  he  afterwards  travelled 
through  France,  Italy,  Dalmatia,  and  Greece,  into  Asia, 
where  he  made  himself  master  of  the  Arabic  language, 
'  and  then  returned  to  Spain.  At  present  we  have  no 
authority  extant  for  supposing  that  he  obtained  his  know- 
ledge of  Arabic  elsewhere  than  in  the  latter  country,  where 
be  formed  a  close  friendship  with  another  zealous  scholar, 
Hermann  the  Dalmatian,  and  they  appear  to  have  studied 
the  Arabian  sciences  together  at  Evora.  Peter  the  Vene- 
rable, abbot  of  Cluny,  began  about  this  time  to  show  his 
religious  zeal  against  the  doctrines  of  Mohammed,  and 
determined  to  visit  Spain  in  order  to  obtain  more  exact 

*  In  the  MSS.  the  name  is  sometimes  spelt  Ketines,  perhaps  by  a  mere 
error  of  the  scribe.  He  seems  to  liave  been  confounded  with  a  Robert 
Ketene,  or  de  Ketene,  who  lived  more  than  a  century  later.  Some  modem 
writers  have,  wiUioutany  reason,  called  him  Robert  of  Reading  :  I  believe 
they  are  wrong  in  supposing  his  name  to  have  any  connection  with  that 
town. 


Flourished  1143.1     Robert  de  retines.  117 

information  on  the  religious  opinions  of  the  Arabs ;  he 
found  our  two  philosophers  studying  '  astrology*  at  Evora, 
and  by  offers  of  a  great  reward  he  prevailed  upon  them  to 
quit  for  a  time  their  favourite  pursuits  in  order  to  trans- 
late the  Koran.*  This  work  they  completed  to  his  satis- 
faction in  the  year  1143,t  at  which  time,  or  immediately 
after,  as  we  learn  from  the  abbot  Peter's  letter,  Robert 
was  made  archdeacon  of  Pampeluna.  We  know  no- 
thing more  of  his  history.  Pits  states,  apparently  from 
mere  conjecture,  that  he  died  at  Pampeluna  in  1 143.  The 
date  is  probably  quite  incorrect.  In  the  preface  to  the 
translation  of  Ptolemy's  Planisphere  by  Hermann,  and 
which  was  probably  written  some  time  after  the  publica- 
tion of  the  translation  of  the  Koran,  Hermann  speaks  of 
his  friend  Robert,  and  in  a  manner  which  would  almost 
lead  us  to  believe  that  he  had  some  share  in  this  work 
also.t 
Although  the  translation  of  the  Koran  was  the  joint 

*  Interpretantibns  scilicet  viris  utriusque  lingois  peritis,  Roberto  Rete- 
nensi  de  Anglia,  qui  nnnc  Papilonensis  ecclesie  archidiaconvs  est,  Her- 
manno  quoque  Dalmata,  acntissimi  et  literati  iDgenii  Scholastico ;  quos  in 
Hispania  drca  Hibemm  astrologicse  arti  studentes  inyeni,  eosque  ad  luec 
faciendam  multo  pretio  conduzi. — Peter's  Letter  to  Bernard  of  Clairvanz, 
introductory  to  the  Sumrna,  or  brief  treatise,  on  the  Mohammedan  religion» 
which  he  had  caused  to  be  translated  by  Peter  of  Toledo  and  a  monk  of 
Cluny,  also  called  Peter.  M.  Jonrdain,  Recherches  Critiques  sur  les  Tra-^ 
ductions  d'Aristote,  p.  101,  has  fallen  into  an  error  in  supposing  that 
Peter  had  any  share  in  the  translation  of  the  Koran. 

t  We  learn  this  from  the  conclusion  of  the  book, — Dlustri  gloriosoque 
yiro  Petro  Cluniacensi  abbate  prsecipiente,  tuus  Angligena  Robertus  Rete» 
nensis  librum  istum  transtulit,  anno  Domini  Mczliii,  Anno  Alezandri 
Mcccciii,  anno  Alhigere  Dzzxvii,  anno  Persarum  quingentesimo  undecimo. 

t  Tuam  itaque  Tirtutem  quasi  propositum  intuentes  speculum,  ego  et 
unicus  atque  illustris  socius  Rodbertus  Retenensis,  nequitise  displicere  licet 
plurimum  possit,  perpetuum  habemus  propositum,  cum,  ut  Tullius  meminiti 
misera  sit  fortuna  cni  nemo  inviderat.  MS.  Reg.  Paris.  No.  7377,  b. 
This  preface,  which  is  not  found  in  the  printed  editions,  is  addressed  tO 
his  '  preceptor  Theodoricns,'  probably  a  Spaniard  in  whose  school  the  two 
friends  pursued  their  studies. 


118  ROBERT  DB  RBTiNBs.  [Flourished  11^» 

work  of  Robert  and  Hermann,  the  pre&tory  epistle  is 
written  in  the  name  of  the  former  only.  Robert  de  Re* 
tines  gives  the  following  account  of  the  sentiments  with 
which  it  was  midertaken.  The  work  itself  is  a  tolerably 
literal  translation  from  the  Arabic. 

Unde  qnanqiuin  te  velat  alumnwm  et  luBredem  aqpieiatue  cohon  Mpiea* 
tmm  circumflaa  oonstipet,  suas  maniu  tuis  nutibiu  benigne  conferens ; 
quonun  conTentu  me  minime  dignum  adhac  sentio :  yestrum  tamen  rnnnuB- 
culiim,  pateom  pneiignatiuii  pandens,  saltern  semd  boh  obliqae  tuna  penpi* 
caz  intaitm,  qasBSO  dignetur  aapioere.  Qoanqaam  enim  in  effragili  faldtam 
ingeniolo  plara  pneceasenrnt  incommodai  turn  hinc  eloqnii  penuria,  illinc 
acientUe  tenuitas,  tain  id  quod  ad  nil  agendum  est  efficacins,  seoordise  vide- 
licet negligentiaeque  mater  desperado  mnltiplez  ob  translationifl  nostras  Wlem 
et  dissolttbilem  ac  incompaginatam  materiam,  pro  sui  modo  prorsns,  Aiabico 
tantum  semoto  velaminei  tuBC  magestati  prtebendam,  non  minus  tamen 
obnize  tuum  obsequium  aggressus  sum :  confisus  nil  effectn  quassari,  quo 
tnum  TOtum  igne  divino  plenom  adspirat.  Liapides  igitur  et  ligna,  ut  twim 
delude  pulcberrimum  et  commodissimum  sedificium  coagmentatum  et  indis- 
solubile  surgat,  nil  excerpens,  nil  sensibiliter  nisi  propter  intelligentiam 
tantum  alterans,  attuli,  Machometique  fumum,  ad  ipsius  tuis  foUibus  ez- 
tinctum,  et  puteum  ad  iUius  exhaustumi  tuo  vase,  ignisque  yestri  tuo  yenti- 
labro  fomentum  atque  fervorem,  nostrique  fontis  eductu  tuo  discnrsum, 
patefeci.  Jus  igitur  exigit,  ut  hostium  castrum,  imo  caveam  delendo, 
puteum  exsiccando,  cum  tu  sis  dextra  mundi  pars  optinuti  cos  religioids 
acutissima,  charitatis  manus  largiflua,  tuorum  munimen  corrobores,  tela 
diligenter  acuas,  fontemque  suum  fortius  emanare,  suseque  cbaritatis  yallum 
protensius  atque  capacius  efficias. 

In  the  Bodleian  library*  there  is  a  manuscript  entitled 
TVanslatio  Chronica  Saracenorumy  by  Robert  de  Retines, 
with  a  dedicatory  epistle  to  Peter  abbot  of  Cluny.  It  is 
the  same  work  which  is  printed  anonymously  in  the  col- 
lection of  Bibliander  (p.  213)  from  an  imperfect  manu- 
script, without  the  preface,  under  the  title  Incipif  Chronica 
Saracenorum, 

Jourdan,  in  his  Researches  on  the  Latin  Translations  of 
Aristotle^t  states  his  opinion  that  Robert  de  Retines  was  the 
same  person  as  the  Robertus  Castrensis  to  whom  Mangett 
attributes  the  Latin  version  of  Morien  De  Compositione 

*  MS.  Seld.  Sup.  31.  f  Bechercbes  Critiques,  p.  104* 

t  Bibl.  Cbym.  Car.  1,  p.  519. 


Plaurished  l\4S.]      Robert  de  retines.  119 

AlchimuBy  said  to  have  been  made  in  1 182.  But  it  is  hardly 
probable  that  Robert  de  Retines  should  have  been  so 
young  in  1143  as  to  be  stiH  an  active  writer  forty  years 
afterwards. 

Tanner  attribxites  to  Robert  de  Retines  a  tra<:;t  con- 
tained in  several  manuscripts  at  Oxford^  entitled  Judida 
Jiteobi  Alkindi  Asfrologi  tx  translatume  Roberii  Angliciy 
toirhieh  he  affixes  the  date  1272.  This  date  is  certainly 
meorrect  if  it  be  the  work  of  Robert  de  Retines,  which 
appears  not  improbable  from  the  drcumstance  that  a  copy 
of  the  same  tract  occurs  in  a  manuscript  of  the  beginning 
of  the  fourteenth  (or  perhaps  of  the  thirteenth)  century  in 
the  British  Museum*  with  the  title,  Incipiunt  Judida 
AlkifuH  Astrology  Rodberti  de  Ketene  translation  Its 
subject  is  purely  astrological,  the  object  being  to  reduce 
to  a  system  which  admits  of  calculation  the  supposed  in- 
fluences of  the  planets  on  the  elements,  on  mankind,  and 
on  private  actions  and  political  events. 

JSditiofU, 

Machmnetis  Sarracenoram  principis  vita  ac  doctrina  omnia,  qun  et  Isma* 
helitamm  lex,  et  Alcoranom  dicitur,  ex  Arabica  lingua  ante  CCCC  annos 
iA  LatiDam  Translata. . . .  Item  Philippi  Melancthonis,  viri  doctiss. 
pnemonitio  ad  lectorem,  &c.  fol.  The  copy  in  the  British  Mnaettm 
haa  the  lower  part  of  the  title  torn  off,  bat  it  appears  to  be  the  edition 
printed  at  Basil,  by  Brylinger,  for  J.  Oporinns,  in  1543. 

Fabridua  mentions  a  sepsirate  edit,  of  the  Koran,  printed  at  Zurich.  1543. 
He  probably  refers  to  a  tract  entitled,  Alcorani  Epitome,  Roberto 
Ketenense  interprete,  published  with  Mahometis  Abdallse  filii  Theologia, 
dialogo  ezplicata,  Hennanno  Nellingaunense  interprete,  in  that  year. 

Machumetis  ejusque  suooesBorum  vitte,  doctrina,  ac  ipse  Alcoran,  quae  D.- 
Petrus,  abbas  Clan,  ex  Arabica  lingua  in  Lat.  transferri  ourovit,  earn 
Phil.  Melanchtonis  preemonitione,  &c.     [Tiguri,]  1550.  fol. 

*  MS.  Cotton,  Appendix  VI.  fol.  109,  r°.     Robert  may  be  the  translator 
of  some  of  the  other  tracts  of  Alkindi,  two  of. which  were  printed  under  the 

title,  —  Astroru    Indices'!  q^JlL.   Me  plnriis  imbribus  et  Tetis :  ac  aeris 

mntatioe.    Venetiis  Anno  Dni  1507*    Ex  offidna  Petri  Liechtenstein.   4to* 
black  letter* 


120  [Time  of 


TUROLD. 

The  earliest  known  romance  in  the  Anglo-Norman  lan- 
guage is  the  Chanson  de  Roland  of  the  trouvere  Turold. 
The  conjectures  of  the  abbd  de  la  Rue  concerning  the 
family  and  date  of  this  writer  are  so  extremely  vague  and 
unsupported  by  evidence,  that  they  do  not  deserve  to  be 
repeated.  The  only  information  relating  to  Turold  which 
can  be  gleaned  from  his  poem  is  his  name,  which  occurs 
in  the  concluding  line  ;*  and  the  name  Thorold,  Torold, 
Turold,  was  so  common  in  the  eleventh  and  twelfth  cen- 
turies, that  it  would  be  vain,  with  no  further  evidence,  to 
attempt  to  trace  his  family  connections.  There  can  be 
little  doubt  that  he  flourished  in  England ;  the  manuscript 
from  which  his  poem  has  been  printed  appears  to  be  as 
old  as  the  latter  half  of  the  twelfth  century,  and  the  lan- 
guage induces  us  to  believe  that  he  flourished  about  the 
time  of  king  Stephen. 

The  poem  of  Turold  begins  somewhat  abruptly,  and 
describes  the  same  disastrous  battle  of  Roncevaux  which 
had  already  been  made  popular  in  the  Latin  story  pub- 
lished under  the  name  of  bishop  Turpin,  and  which  has 
been  so  often  celebrated  in  the  poetry  of  subsequent  ages. 
Although  the  language  is  nearly  the  same  as  that  of  Philip 
de  Thaun,  its  style  diflfers  entirely  from  that  of  any  Anglo- 
Norman  poem  which  we  can  safely  attribute  to  a  remoter 
date.  Instead  of  the  rhyming  treatise  on  science,  or  the 
scarcely  less  prosaic  narratives  of  miracles  of  saints,  we 
recognise  here  a  poem  which  was  undoubtedly  intended  to 
be  recited  with  the  accompaniment  of  the  minstrel's  harp; 

*  Ci  fait  la  geste  que  Taroldus  declinet* 

Chanson  de  Rolandi  p.  \h^. 


Stephen.]  turold.  121 

and,  although  devoid  of  the  artificial  ornaments  of  more 
refined  poetry,  the  story  marches  on  with  a  kind  of  lofty 
I  grandeur  which  was  well  calculated  to  move  the  hearts  of 

the  hearers  for  whom  it  was  intended,  and  which  even  to 
a  modern  reader  is  not  without  its  charms.  The  primitive 
form  of  the  language  has  also  a  certain  degree  of  dignity 
which  was  lost  in  its  subsequent  transformations.  The 
form  of  the  verse  has  some  peculiarities ;  it  is  one  of  the 
oldest  poems,  in  which,  instead  of  rhyming  couplets,  we 
have  a  continuous  series  of  lines,  varying  in  number, 
bound  together  by  one  final  rhyme,  and  this  rhyme  rests 
upon  the  last  or  last  two  vowels,  entirely  independent  of 
the  consonants.  This  kind  of  assonance,  rather  than 
rhyme,  is  I  believe  found  in  no  other  work  of  the  trou- 
veres,  although  it  occurs  in  the  dialects  of  the  south 
(Spanish  and  Proven9al)  and  even  in  Latin  poems  of  the 
tenth  and  eleventh  centuries.*  The  following  passage  of 
the  poem,  taken  almost  at  random,  will  best  illustrate 
these  observations :  it  describes  the  occupations  of  the 
court  of  Charlemagne  on  the  arrival  of  the  Moorish  am- 
bassador. 

Li  empereres  se  fait  e  balz  e  liez, 
Cordres  a  prise  eles  mnrs  peceiez, 
Od  ses  cadables  lea  tors  en  abatied, 
Mult  grant  eschech  en  unt  si  chevaler 
D'or  e  d*argent  e  de  gnamemenz  chers. 
£n  la  citet  n'en  ad  rem^  paien 
'  Ne  seit  ocis  u  devient  chrestien. 

Li  empereres  est  en  nn  grant  verger, 
Eosembr  od  loi  Rollans  e  Oliver, 
Sansnn  11  dux,  e  Anseis  li  tiers, 
Gefreid  d^Anjon  le  rei  gnnfannner ; 
E  si  i  furent  e  Gerin  e  Gerers. 


*  For  an  example  of  this  assonant  rhyme  in  Latin,  cloeely  resembling 
that  of  Turold,  see  the  poem  on  St.  Nicholas,  printed  in  the  Reliquin  Anti- 
qnse,  vol.  ii.  p.  199* 


122  TUROLD.  [Time  of 

Lk  (l  cist  fdrenty  dea  altres  i  out  Men  9 
De  dnlce  France  i  ad  quinze  millien. 
Sur  palies  blancs  siedent  cil  oeralerst 
As  tibl«s  jnent  pur  eli  eslMnBier, 
£  as  eschces  li  plus  saxve  e  li  Teill, 
E  escremissent  cil  bachder  leger. 
DesQS  m  poUy  deles  qh  ^[lenteri 
Ua  fi^eitoed  i  nnt  fUt  tat  d'or  mer : 
Li  siet  li  reis  qui  dnlce  France  tient, 
Blanche  ad  la  barbe  e  tut  flurit  le  chef, 
6ent  ad  le  eon  e  la  cmtenanoe  fier. 
S'est  ki  V  demaadet,  ne  I'estoet  enfle%ner  ; 
£  li  message  descendirent  i  pied. 
Si  1'  salnerent  par  amor  e  par  bien. 

As  in  most  of  the  early  romances,  the  largest  portion  of 
the  poem  of  Tnrold  consists  of  battle  scenes,  descriptions 
most  suitable  to  the  taste  of  a  warlike  age,  which  are  told 
with  somewhat  of  Homeric  vigour.  In  relating  the  disas- 
ters of  the  war,  the  poet  introduces  pathetic  traits  which 
sometimes  possess  considerable  beauty.  The  following 
incident  forms  part  of  the  narrative  of  the  death  of  the 
hero  Roland. 

Halt  rant  li  put  e  nralt  halt  lea  arbrea, 

Quatre  pemms  i  ad  luisant  de  marbre. 

Snr  I'erbe  verte  li  qnens  Rollans  se  paamet ; 

Uns  Sarrarins  tute  veie  Pe^gnardet, 

Si  se  feinst  mort,  si  gist  entre  lea  aitros» 

Del  sane  Inat  aim  eora  e  aim  Tiaage, 

Met  sei  en  piea  e  da  cure  s^aatet ; 

Bels  Alt  e  fora  e  de  grant  vassdage : 

Par  snn  oigoill  enmeiioet  mortal  rage, 

RoUant  saisit  e  aun  oora  e  aes  armea, 

£  dist  on  mot :  '' Venent  eat  li  nite  Carlea . 

Iceste  esp^  porterai  en  Aiabo/* 

£n  eel  tireres  li  qnens  a'apar9at  alqnes. 

Co  sent  Rollans  qne  s'esp^  li  tolt, 
Uverit  les  oilz,  si  li  ad  dit  un  mot : 
*'  Men  esdentre  I  tn  n*ies  mie  des  nos.*' 
Hent  I'olifan,  qne  unques  perdre  ne  Tolty 
Si  rfiert  en  I'elme  Id  gemmet  fdt  k  or, 
Fndaaet  I'aoor  e  la  teste  e  lea  oa, 
Amadous  lea  oili  del  chef  U  ad  mia  fon, 


SiephenJ]    evbbard  and  hbi^ys  of  winohb8tbr.  123 

Jus  i  868  pies  si  V  ad  trestornet  mort, 

Apr^s  li  dit :  **  Calvert  paien,  cum  fiu  unkes  si  08 

Que  me  saisis  ne  i  dreit  ne  2l  tort  ? 

Ne  V  omt  hvaae  no  t'en  dioget  pur  toL 

Fendiu  en  est  mis  oliftois  eL  gros, 

Ca  joz  en  est  li  cristals  e  li  ors." 

The  only  manuscript  of  Turold^s  poem^  in  its  origmal 
f  onn^  known  to  exist  at  the  period  when  it  was  printed  by 
M.  Michel^  is  preserved  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  Copies 
of  the  same  text^  modernized  and  containing  many  yaria- 
tions,  but  without  the  name  of  Turold,  are  found  in  map- 
nuscripts  of  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  centuries.* 

Edition. 

La  Chanson  de  Roland,  ou  de  Roncevauz^  da  xii"  si^cle,  pnbli^  poor  la 
premiive  ftns,  d'apr^  le  Manuscrit  de  la  Blblioth^ne  Bodl^ienne  k 
Oxford,  par  FtaDcisque  Michel.    Svo.    Pans,  1837. 


EVERARD  AND  HELYS  OF  WINCHESTER. 

Ths  account  which  the  abb^  de  la  Rue  gives  of  the 
trouTere  Everard  is  extremely  incorrect.  All  that  we 
know  of  this  poet  is  that  he  wrote  a  metrical  translation 
into  Anglo-Norman  of  the  Disticha  of  Dionysius  Cato^ 
the  popular  book  of  morality  in  the  Middle  Ages,  and  that 
he  was  a  monk.    In  one  of  the  manuscripts  of  this  trans- 

*  SeYeral  such  MSS.  are  described  in  M.  Michel's  Introduction  to  his 
edition  of  the  poem  of  Torold,  and  in  prof.  Keller's  reoent  pnblioataoiiy 
BomYart :  Beitn^e  sur  mitteUdterlicher  Dichtungaus  Italienisolien  Biblio* 
theken.  Svo.  Mannheim,  1844,  pp.  12,  28.  See  also  on  the  subject  of  this 
poem,  M.  Monin's  Dissertation  sur  le  Roman  de  RoDoevauz.  The  earliest 
of  the  foreign  manuscripts  (dating  from  the  commencement  of  tiie  thirteenth 
century)  is  preserved  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris,  fonds  de  Colbert»  No* 
7337^.,  and,  as  I  am  informed  by  M.  Pau^n  Paris,  resembles  closely  the  text 
of  the  Oxford  MS.,  except  that  it  is  much  more  correctly  written  and  more 
complete. 


124        EV£RARD    AND    HELYS    OF   WINCHESTER.    [Time  o/ 

lation  its  author  is  called  Avrard.  Tanner,  on  the  autho- 
rity of  Dempster  (who  is  not  generally  deserving  of  much 
credit)  mentions  a  Scottish  monk  of  the  name  of  Everar- 
dus^  canon  of  Kirkham  in  Yorkshire  (founded  in  1121)^ 
and  subsequently  first  abbot  of  Holme  Cultram  in  Cum- 
berland (founded  in  1150),  to  whom  he  attributes  Lives  (in 
Latin)  of  St.  Adamnanus^  St.  Cumeneus  Albus^  and  St. 
Walthenus.  M.  de  la  Rue^  without  any  reason^  identifies 
these  two  Everards  ;  and^  which  is  much  less  excusable^ 
states  that  Everard  in  his  translation  of  Cato  tells  us  that 
he  was  canon  of  Kirkham^  although  all  that  the  writer  says 
of  himself  is  that  he  was  a  monk.  There  is  every  reason  for 
believing  that  Everard  of  Kirkham,  of  whose  writings  (if 
they  ever  existed)  nothing  remains,  was  a  different  person 
from  the  Everard  of  whom  we  are  now  speaking.  At  the 
same  time  the  language  he  uses,  and  the  age  of  the  manu- 
scripts, induce  us  to  believe  that  they  may  have  been  con- 
temporary, and  that  the  translator  of  Cato  lived  perhaps 
not  later  than  the  reign  of  Stephen. 

The  translation  of  Everard  appears  to  have  enjoyed 
some  popularity ;  and  it  was  subsequently  retouched  or 
altered  by  other  persons,  and  made  the  foundation  of  other 
works.  This  practise  of  pirating  literary  property  was  not 
uncommon  in  the  Middle  Ages.  In  a  manuscript  in  the 
British  Museum,*  we  have  an  Anglo-Norman  metrical 
version  of  the  Disticha  of  Cato,  written  by  Helys  (or  He- 
lias)  of  Winchester,  who  also,  by  the  title  of  dans  {do- 
minus  J  which  he  gives  himself,  must  have  been  an  eccle- 
siastic or  a  monk.t     Helys  translates  the  first  book  of 

*  MS.  Harl.  No.  4388.    There  is  another  copy  in  MS.  CoL  Corp.  Chr. 
Cambridgei  No.  405.     M.  de  la  Rne  places  Helys  of  Winchester  Tery  erro« 
neonsly  in  the  thirteenth  century, 
t  In  the  prologue,  MS.  Harl.  No.  4388,  fol.  115,  v^  ;— 

Ki  Tolt  saveir  la  faitement 
Ke  Katun  i\  sun  fiz  prent, 


Stephen.^  evebabd  and  hblys  of  Winchester.    12S 

Cato  in  the  same  measure  as  that  adopted  by  Everard^ 
whom  he  frequently  copies  with  slight  variations  through 
several  lines,  whilst  at  other  times  he  changes  his  original 
entirely,  but  in  such  a  manner  that  we  easily  see  that  he 
had  the  version  of  Everard  before  his  eyes.  Many  of  the 
variations  are  mere  differences  in  the  readings  of  manu* 
scripts.  In  the  second  book  Helys  gives  a  translation 
differing  both  in  words  and  measure  from  that  of  his  pro- 
totype, to  which  however  he  returns  again  in  the  third  and 
fourth  books.  The  respective  translations  of  the  first  six 
lines  of  the  first  book  will  serve  as  a  specimen  of  the 
manner  in  which  Helys  has  changed  the  version  of  Eve- 
rard when  he  differs  most  from  it. 

Tramlaiion  of  Everard,  Translation  of  Helys  of  Winchester, 

Si  DevLs  est  animus^  nobis  ut  carmina  dicunt, 
Hie  tibi  pracipue  sit  pura  menie  colendus. 

Si  Deus  H  cativer  De  purpense  pure. 

Est  tel  purpenseri  Cum  dit  I'escripture) 

cum  dient  chescun,  Deu  devum  cultiver, 

Lk  seit  ton  curage  Lui  deis-tu  meimement 

Perm  en  sun  estage,  Acuragiement 

sanz  nul  flichisun.  servir  et  honurer. 

Plus  viyila  semper,  nee  somno  deditus  esto  ; 
Nam  diutuma  qtiies  vitiis  alimenta  ministrat. 

Tat  tens  garde  vus  Purvei  tuteveis 

Ke  Yus  esveillez  plus  Ke  tu  trop  ne  seies 

ke  ne  prengez  summe  ;  al  dormir  desirus ; 

Kar  par  grant  dormir  Repos  et  trop  dormir 

Sout  suvent  chair  Fait  home  devenir 

en  vices  meint  hume.  malveis  e  perecusi 


S'en  Latin  ne  1*  set  entendre, 
Ci  le  pot  en  Romanz  aprendre, 
Cum  Helis  de  Guincestre, 
Ki  D^s  mettet  k  sa  destr^. 
La  translatat  si  faitement,  etc. 

And  in  the  concluding  lines  of  the  poem  : — 

Ki 's  translata  l*  entent  tut  altresi, 
Danz  Helys,  dunt  Jesus  ait  merci  I 


12<$      BTBRARD  AND   HELYB  OF  WINCHESTER.    [Thne  qf 

TroMlation  qfJBverard,  TrtuulaHim  of  HtlyM  of  WmeKetttr, 

Virtuiem  primam  eueputa  compeseere  lin^tMm  ; 
Proximut  ille  Deo  ett  qui  »cii  ratione  taeere. 

La  Yerta  premere  La  premere  vertu 

Ki kid seit  ciiere,  Est,  Men le nchei-tai 

est  kage  refreoer ;  ta  laoge  refranar ; 

A  Den  est  prochein,  Deu  pot  k  gr6  seryir, 

Ki  par  reaim  certein  Ki  set  e  Tolt  taisir, 

set  taiiir  e  parler.  e  par  leteiin  parler« 

In  the  following  passi^es^  taken  a  little  farther  on  in  the 
first  book,  the  two  versions  become  more  closely  iden- 
tical:— 

Omtt&m  ti  leni»,  He  ui  ru  eapoituiati  etio : 
Ten^oribu9  moree  sapiem  »iM  crimine  muM. 

Red  e  suef  seez,  Paisibles  et  saef  iras 

Selung  go  ke  ta  veies  Salunc  90  ke  verras 

ke  les  dkMea  i  vont ;  qoe  ka  choaes  a^en  Yitnt ; 

Li  sages,  sana  bleamer  Li  sages  sens  blaamer 

Ses  mure  set  atemprer  Ses  mors  set  atanprer 

selunc  que  choses  sunt.  snlmic  les  tens  que  sunt. 

Nil  temere  uxori  de  eervie  erede  guerenti  ; 
Sape  etetUm  mulier  quern  eonjux  dUigit  odii. 

Ne  creies  folement  Ta  fsemme  *  foleaMnt 

Ta  femme  quant  auTent  Ne  crdre,  de  ta  gent 

de  tea  aeijanz  se  claime ;  si  ele  ae  claimet  s 

Kar  suTent  eschet  Kar  surent  avient 

Que  la  dame  het  Ke  femme  en  baar  tient 

ceus  ke  H  sires  aime.  ke  si  sires  aime. 

Cum  moneat  aliquemf  ?iee  se  velit  ille  moneri, 

Si  tibi  eit  earns,  noli  desittere  c<Bptis, 
Si  de  ses  folies  Si  de  ses  folies 

Acun  de  tons  chasties,  Alkun  chasties, 

e  il  ne  r  Yoillie  entendre,  ki  ne  1'  voile  entendre, 

*  I  eonsider  the  oecorrence  of  the  «  diphtiiong  in  tids  mannseript,  and  in 
those  of  Philip  de  Thaun,  GnerBes  do  Pont  de  St.  Mazence,  and  one  or  two 
others,  a  proof  of  their  being  written  in  the  twelfth  century ;  I  account  for 
them  by  supposing  the  MSS.  to  have  been  written  by  scribes  who  were 
in  the  custom  of  writing  Latin,  and  who,  when  writing  que,  femme,  &c. 
wrote  as  though  it  were  the  Latin  qum,  ftemina,  8tc.  And  even  in  Latin 
MSS.  the  <e  went  out  of  use  towards  the  end  of  the  twelfth  eentury : — 1 
never  met  with  a  MS.  containing  it  which  could  be  attributed  by  any  stretch 
of  probability  to  a  later  date  than  the  reign  of  John,  excepting,  of  course, 
manuscripts  written  after  the  fifteenth  century. 


tSiephenJ]  cybrard^nd  hblts  of  winchsitsb.  127 

TVwMiMMi  ^  Mmrard.  Tyantlaiion  ^f  BOy»  ^  Whtekmier. 
Ne  Ml  p«r  ^  cesser.  Par  teat  ae  P  deis  Isiswr» 

Parqvel  qve  Taies  cher.  Si  tu  1'  ts  aldies  cher, 

mevs  de  tent  plu  reprendre.  msis  dire  en  nprendre. 


Bjn§iuum  muntu  cum  dat  tibi  pauper  muieuMf 
jiedpiio  plaeide,  plene  et  laudare  memmtQ, 

Quant  un  petit  dun  S*avieat  k'vn  petit  dm 

Te  met  k  baundon  Te  mette  it  bandon 

le  ton  povre  ami,  li  ton  povres  ands^ 

Receif  le  bonement>  Receif  le  boaeieati 

E  plenerement  E  loenges  Pen  read, 

t*en  lo  par  tnt  de  li.  e  g^ranz  grez  et  merdi. 

J^mtfsm  nmdum  mm  U  ntiimra  ereariif 
PaupertatU  onu$  patietUer  ftrre  menuuio, 

dnant  el  mnnd  venis,  Ne  t^esmaie  pnr  perte» 

PoTffSS  e  chaitift  Safre  te  porerto, 

e  an  et  d<dent,  et  par  bon  Toleir, 

La  charge  de  poverte,  Si  te  ddt  sayenir 

De  meseise  e  de  perte,  Ke  D^s  to  fist  venir 

•ofre  bonemeirt.  el  mnnd  sens  «feir. 

The  opening  lines  of  the  second  book  will  serre  to  show 
the  style  of  Helys  of  Winchester  when  he  writes  inde- 
pendently of  his  predecessor : — 

niluris  fifbrU  velU  cognoteere  culfus, 
FXry^teM  Uffito,    Quod  «t  moffe  ntme  Ubonu 
Herbarum  vtre«,  Maeer  has  tibi  earmme  dieet. 
Si  Ronuma  etqfU  vel  Punica  nogeere  bella, 
iMeamtm  qutenUf  qmi  Martiipralia  dieei. 
Si  quid  amort  Ubet  «t/  dUetre  amort  UgtudOf 
Nttsonem  petiio. 

Si  ta  Tons  saver  Talent  de  terre  gainier 
Terre  cnltirer,  pur  qnei  tn  aies  fis, 

ke  bl4  ne  ftdie  nde,  Vlrgfles  t'en  set  adrescer, 
Yirg^ie  lises,  si  tn  lis  ses  escris. 

£  saver  pnrrez  £  tn  herbe  vols  saveir 

ases  de  gnainerie.  la  force  et  la  rertn. 

Si  Yoaa  fWdea  Danz  Maeres  t*en  dirrat 
estre,  e  saver  ben  le  veir,  qnant  Tanras  purven 

duner  les  mescines,  Si  de  Romains  n  AlMcans 
Maere,  ke  ne  ment,  bataille  vols  saveir, 

Les  granz  vertnz  t'aprent  Bien  les  te  dirrat  danz  Lncans, 

d'  erbes  e  de  radnes*  si  tn  liz  &  leisir. 


128     EVERABD   AND    HELYS   OF   WINCHESTER.    [Time  of 

lYanalation  of  Everard,  JYanslation  of  Helys  of  Winchester, 

Si  YOQS  ke  ta  ne  failles  E  cil  ki  volt  sayeir  d'amur, 

De  saver  les  batailles  e  aprendre  k  amer, 

d'Aufrike  e  de  Rume,  Ovide  Tamerus  autur 

Lucan  aprenez,  li  estuverat  recorder. 

Kar  iloc  truverez 

de  guerre  meinte  sume* 
Si  Yous  saver  d'amurs, 
Cum  volent  li  plusurs, 

Use  les  Ovides, 
E  tost  saveras  amer, 
E  pus  desamer, 

meuz  ke  ta  ne  quides. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Everard  was  the  original 
writer,  and  that  Helys  was  the  copyist,  because  Everard's 
translation  is  uniformly  written,  whereas  the  prologue  and 
translation  of  the  second  book  of  the  other  are  altogether 
in  a  diflferent  style  from  the  rest. 

In  the  British  Museum  there  is  another  Anglo-Nor- 
man version  of  Cato,  in  a  manuscript  of  the  earlier  part  of 
the  fourteenth  century,*  which  also  is  written  in  the  same 
measure  as  that  of  Everard  j  and  I  am  inclined  to  think 
that  the  author  took  Everard  for  his  model,  but  he  has  dis- 
guised what  he  has  borrowed  much  more  effectually  than 
Helys  of  Winchester. 

The  best  copy  of  the  poem  of  Everard  is  found  in  a 
manuscript  in  the  British  Musuem  (MS.  Arundel,  No.  292, 
which,  when  examined  by  M.  de  la  Rue,  was  in  the  library 
of  the  Royal  Society).  An  inferior  copy  is  preserved  in 
a  manuscript  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris  (fonds  Notre 
Dame,  No.  277)j  from  which  it  has  been  printed  by  M. 
Le  Roux  de  Lincy.  The  manuscript  cited  by  M.  de  la 
Rue  as  fonds  Notre  Dame  No.  5,  is  the  same  as  the  one 
just  mentioned,  but  his  reference  is  incorrect. 

M.  de  la  Rue  attributes  to  Everard,  I  think  incorrectly, 

•  MS.  Harl.  No.  4(i57. 


SAMSON   DE   NANTEUIL.  129 

a  smaller  poem  in  the  Arundel  manuscript^  (a  short  me« 
trical  discourse  on  the  Passion^)  merely  because  it  is 
contained  in  the  same  volume,  and  is  written  in  the 
same  kind  of  verse  as  the  translation  of  Cato.  We  meet 
not  unfrequently  with  similar  poems,  which  might  be 
attributed  to  the  same  writer  with  as  much  justice,  for, 
although  contained  in  one  manuscript,  the  two  poems 
are  separated  by  a  number  of  small  pieces  in  different 
languages  and  by  different  authors.  A  similar  poem  has 
been  published  by  M*  Jubinal;*  and  another  will  be 
found  in  the  manuscript  in  the  Harleian  Library ,t  which 
has  already  been  cited  as  containing  a  translation  of  Cato 
in  the  same  structure  of  verse  as  that  of  Everard,  which 
it  immediately  precedes. 

Bdiiion. 

he  Livre  des  ProYerbes  Frangaisi  par  Le  Roux  de  Lincy.  ISmo.  Paris,  1842. 
Tome  Second,  pp.  359—375.  Everard's  Translation  of  the  pistichs 
of  Cato. 


SAMSON  DE  NANTEUIL. 

Samson  db  Nantbuil  is  another  of  the  Anglo-Nor- 
man trouveres  whom  we  know  only  by  his  writings.  It  is 
probable,  from  the  character  of  his  work,  that  he  was  an 
ecclesiastic.  We  are  enabled  to  fix  the  date  at  which 
Samson  flourished,  for  he  informs  us  that  he  was  attached 
to  the  household,  or  court,  of  Adelaide  de  Conde,  at  whose 

*  Un  Sermon  en  yers,  public  poor  la  premiere  fois,  par  Achille  Jabinal, 
d'apr^s  le  Manuscrit  de  la  Bibliotbdqne  da  Roi.  8to.  Pisris,  1834. 
t  MS.  Harl.  No.  4657. 

VOL,   II.  K 


ISO  SAMSON  DS  NANTBUIL« 

request  he  composed  the  only  work  which  bears  his  name^ 
a  metrical  Anglo-Norman  translation  of^  and  gloss  upon^ 
the  Proverbs  of  Solomon.*  This  lady  was  the  wife  of 
Osbert  de  Cond^^  lord  of  Homcastle^  in  Lincolnshire^  and 
lived  during  the  reigns  of  Henry  I.  and  Stephen.  Horn- 
castle  was  one  of  the  numerous  castles  which  were 
destroyed  in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.  In 
1148;  Adelaide  de  Cond^^  with  her  son  Roger  de  Cond^^ 
gave  several  donations  to  the  priory  of  Rufford.f  Samson 
de  Nanteuil  may  therefore  be  considered  as  belonging  to 
the  reign  of  Stephen. 

Only  one  manuscript  of  the  translation  of  the  Proverbs 
by  this  trouvere  is  known  to  exists  and  it  has  never  been 
printed.  It  possesses  very  little  interest,  and  hardly  de- 
serves to  be  dragged  from  its  obscurity.  The  translator 
takes  the  Latin  text  phrase  by  phrase,  giving  first  a  nearly 
literal  translation,  and  then  a  gloss.  The  following  lines 
will  serve  as  an  example  (taken  from  the  MS.  fol.  5,  r^.) 

*  Ki  ben  en  volt  estere  enqneranz, 

Entendet  dune  k  ceat  Romanz, 

Que  al  loenge  Dame-De 

£  i  B*enor  at  translate 

Sanson  de  Nantuil,  ki  sovient 

De  M  dame  quHl  aime  et  creleat, 

Ki  mainte  feiz  Ten  out  preid, 

Que  li  desdatrast  eel  trailed. 

Le  num  de  ceste  damme  eacrist 

Cil  ki  translation  fist, 

Aelii  de  Cund^  Tapele 

Noble  damme  enaeigne  6  bele. 

Ne  quident  pas  li  losengier 

Qu*ot  ens  se  ToUle  acompaigner, 

Kar  trestat  oil  de  la  contrte 

Unt  ben  oi  sa  rennm^.    fol.  2,  r^. 
t  Hftii  is  stated  hj  M.  de  la  Rue,  without  ginng  his  authority. 
t  MS.  Harl.  No.  4388,  of  the  twelfth  century. 


Btepken*']  ovisoard  db  BBAiTLnn.  ISI 

Utera, 
Enpr^B  li  dit,  fix,  n'aflsentir 
Ab  pecchanx,  all  te  Tont  blandir, 
N*«iof  nwn  de  lor  aldter, 
Kar  anuire  ne  tat  meiter. 

fflose. 
CoBjeetnre  fait  cQ  qui  I'ereie, 
Que  pere  et  mere  li  chaiteiei 
Pur  960  que  li  meret  quenchir 
Tot  Palaiter  et  le  blandir 
Des  peeheoft»  ki  loaengler 
Le  Tolent  de  mal  comeuoer. 
Alaiter  par  tent  I  enfant, 
Ki  d'naer  pain  est  non  poant. 
li  peehenr  oelni  alaiteat» 
Qne  par  vantanee  i  mal  rehaitent. 
De  ploa  te  met  en  sorqnidance» 
Qne  ne  pot  areir  defeif anoe ; 
Par  yantaneei  I'en  Telt  toner 
A  perdre  90  qne  deit  garder. 
Apr^  li  tient  male  hnere  enprendre. 
Com  enliuit  ki  ne  Mit  entendre 
De  faire  90  qne  Tarn  li  dit, 
Ne  ne  set  s'est  perte  n  profit. 
De  tel  alaiter  de  pechled 
Flidt  li  pere  al  fia  ram  ddret. 
Si  n'avnna  eel  reepit  en  main, 
Que  l*am  snelt  dire  del  yilain, 
Ki  ne  ereit  anm  pere  et  aa  mere, 
Noiele  oratt  male  et  amare. 


GUISCARD  OR  GUICHARD  DE  BEAULIEU. 

This  writer  has  been  hitherto  known  only  by  a  poem 
of  some  length  which  in  the  manuscript  is  entitled  the 
Sermon  of  Ouiscard  de  Beaulieu.*  He  tells  us  that  he 
had  passed  his  youth  in  secular  enjoyments,  until,  dis* 

*  Id   fine  le  flermim  Gniichart  de  Beanlln.     MS.  Harl.  No.  4388, 
tol.  99,  ▼•. 

k2 


132  ouiscABD  DE  BEAULIEU.  [Reign  of 

gusted  with  the  vanities  of  the  worlds  he  had  retired  to  a 
monastery  5  and  his  ^^  sermon'^  is  a  long  satire  against  the 
vices  of  the  age. 

A  contemporary  (or  nearly  contemporary)  writer  has 
however  preserved  an  interesting  account  of  Guiscard  de 
Beanlieu,  not  hitherto  noticed.  Walter  Mapes  informs 
us  that  Guiscard  was  a  man  of  wealthy  distinguished 
for  his  valour;  that  in  his  old  age  he  had  surren- 
dered his  estates  to  his  son  Imbert,  and  not  only  as- 
sumed the  habit  of  a  monk  of  the  order  of  Cluny^  but  be- 
came a  poet  in  his  own  language^  the  French  or  Anglo- 
Norman^  and  was  distinguished  as  ^^  the  Homer  of  the 
laity/*  *  Subsequently,  when  his  son,  by  the  violence  of 
his  enemies  and  his  own  want  of  courage,  had  been  ex- 
pelled from  his  paternal  possessions,  Guiscard  returned 
for  a  time  to  the  world,  assumed  his  arms,  reinstated 
him,  and  then  retired  again  to  the  cloister,  where  he  re- 
mained till  his  death.t  From  the  manner  in  wliich  he  is 
here  spoken  of,  we  ought  probably  to  consider  Guiscard 
as  living  in  the  reign  of  Stephen,  and  dying  early  in  that 
of  Henry  II. 

The  abb^  de  la  Rue  supposed  that  our  trouvere  took 
his  name  from  the  circumstance  of  his  being  a  monk  in 
the  priory  of  Beaulieu  in  Bedfordshire,  founded  early  in  the 
twelfth  century  as  a  dependent  on  the  great  abbey  of  St. 
Alban's.  This  was  not,  however,  a  house  of  Cluniac 
monks:  and  from  the  account  just  cited  from  Walter 
Mapes  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  he  must  have  belonged 
to  some  other  abbey,  and  that  Beaulieu  was  the  family 

*  Collectifl  Tuibus  se  subito  poetam  penensiti  8uo  qnomodoi  lingua  8C. 
Gallica  pnetonsos  effulgens,  laicoram  Homerus  fait  By  laicorum  Home^ 
rutf  I  presume  that  Mapes  means  he  became  bj  the  language  of  his  writings 
the  poet  of  the  laity,  who  could  not  understand  those  who  wrote  in  Latin. 

t  Walter  Mapes,  De  Nugis  Curialium,  Distinct,  i.  cap.  13. 


Stephefi.]  GUiscARD  de  beaulieu.  133 

name.  The  words  of  the  writer  just  mentioned  would 
lead  us  to  believe  that  Guischard  had  written  more  than 
one  poem.  The  Sermon  is,  however,  all  that  is  now  known 
of  his  compositions.  It  is  preserved  in  a  manuscript  of 
the  twelfth  century  in  the  British  Museum,*  and  (in  a 
mutilated  form)  in  a  manuscript  of  the  Royal  Library  at 
Paris,t  from  which  last  copy  an  edition  was  published  by 
M.  Jubinal. 

The  Sermon  of  Guiscard  de  Beaulieu  is  written  in  the 
same  kind  of  versification  which  characterises  most  of  the 
earlier  metrical  romances,  and  of  which  we  have  had  an 
example  in  the  Chanson  de  Roland,  the  assonance  of 
Turold  being  however  exchanged  for  more  perfect  rhymes* 
The  style  bears  marks  of  much  greater  poetical  talent  than 
is  observed  in  the  poems  of  Everard  and  Samson  de  Nan- 
teuil,  and  frequently  exhibits  considerable  elegance  and 
energy  of  expression.  We  select  the  following  lines,]: 
both  as  a  fair  specimen  of  the  whole,  and  as  preserving  a 
curious  trait  of  the  religious  belief  of  the  age. 

ChasoonB  heom  coTient  ke  biei\  se  seit  parreiK ; 

Kar  il  i  ad  dons  complaingnz  ki  mult  nmt  fien  et  dun : 

L'lm  est  Tangle  dea  dels,  et  I'altre  des  perdus. 

Dirrai  yus  de  cbascon  com  deit  estre  cremuz ; 

E  11  bona  escriz  noz  biena  et  toz  noz  yertoz, 

Et  li  mala  noz  pechez  lea  granz  et  lez  menuz. 

Entre  ena  nen  ad  j&  paia,  tat  tena  aont  iraacns : 

L'on  volt  noitre  damage,  bien  en  aeez  aeurz, 

Et  Vautre  eat  curioa  coment  il  foat  vencuzi 

Co  est  par  bona  ovrea  deit  eatre  confimdez. 

A  celu  TOB  tenez  dunt  aerrez  meintennz, 

Devant  Deu  yus  merrat,  U  serrez  bien  venoz. 

Quant  li  bona  est  saula  et  Faltre  est  mal  peoz. 

Quant  il  est  veatiiz,  li  colverz  eat  tnt  muz. 


♦  MS.  Harl.  No.  4388. 

t  BibUoth^ue  Royale,  No.  1856  (indicated  by  M.  de  la  Rue  as  No* 
2560). 
t  MS,  Harl.  No.  4388,  fol.  94,  t**. 


134  WILLIAM  OF  ICALMiBCRY.         [tloUrMed 

L'mi  Tolt  bout  Testimeni,  gunemens  «gwh 

DeBtrert  bien  enaeelez,  et  palefrai  tiwdiUi 

Escuz  peint  i  or,  esp^  esmiilnzy 

E  mantaalfl  tralnaiis  de  grant  palles  tesduz  t 

Duao  8«rnit  pur  m9  tv  amei  eC  conxui 

Ki  sivre  le  yoldrett  celui  aerrat  ses-druz ; 

Jk  eertes  kl  I'cremit  derant  Deu  n'ert  rexa, 

De  eeU  dit  tuaiptan  4  be»  prof  rant  perdu. 

Bon  conaeil  en  dinrai,  le  jo  en  ere  crenx» 

Trestnt  doner  k  poyres,  k  meseals,  et  k  mnz, 

Et  faire  pnnz  snr  ewes,  dnnt  tust  meintenna 

EgUeea  et  nraaten  U  D^  jii«t  «onviw. 

Ki  ren  done  pur  Den,  mnlt  par  i  ad  ben  yendv ; 

Quant  mester  aurat,  trestut  li  ert  renduz. 

CU  ki  beM  iiit  pur  B'thne^  ii  fei  ral  rend  «do». 

JSdUuM* 

Le  Sennon  de  Qviebtrd  de  Boeidieii,  pvbli^  poor  b  preni^  fm  d'aprte  le 

Manuscrit  unique  de  la  Bibliothdque  du  Roi.    8to,    lettrea  Gotbiquei. 
PariB,  1834.     [Edited  by  M.  Achille  Jubinal.] 


WILLIAM  OF  MALMSBURY- 

William  of  Malmaburjr  desenres  to  be  oonsidered  as 
one  of  the  most  remarkable  writers  of  the  twelfth  cen- 
tury ;  yet  we  know  little  of  his  personal  history,  and  that 
little  we  have  to  deduce  from  the  allusions  in  his  own 
writings.  He  tells  us  that^  his  father  having  destined  him 
for  the  church,  he  apent  all  his  youth  in  dose  application 
to  books,  and  made  himself  well  acquainted  with  the 
principal  branches  of  learning,  but  that  history  was  his 
favourite  study.  He  began  by  obtaining  with  his  own 
money  the  principal  writers  of  foreign  history,  and  then, 
turning  to  the  annals  of  his  own  country,  and  finding  them 
imperfectly  handed  down  by  other  writers,  he  was  led  to 
collect  the  materials  for  a  new  work,  in  which  some  of  the 


in  1140.]  WthhIAU  OF  MALH8BURY.  }35 

defects  of  his  predecessors  were  to  be  supplied.*  He  was 
librarian  and  precentor  of  his  notonastery^f  and  would 
have  been  elected  abbot,  if  he  had  not  resigned  his  claims 
in  favour  of  his  competitor,  abbot  John,|  who  was  elected 
in  1140,  and  died  the  same  year* 

This  is  the  only  incident  in  William's  life  of  which  we 
possess  the  exact  date.  In  the  prologue  to  the  fourth 
book  (d  his  History  of  the  English  Kings,  he  speaks  of 
William  Rufus  and  Henry  I.  as  kings  o/  his  own  time,  §  to 
distinguish  them  from  William  the  Conqueror,  and  says 
that  thenceforth  he  shall  have  to  speak  of  what  came 
within  his  own  knowledge.  He  must  therefore  have  lived 
in  the  time  of  the  second  William,  and  we  may  place  his 
birth  in  the  latter  part  of  the  eleventh  century.  In  an- 
other of  his  works,  the  Commentary  on  Jeremiah,  pro- 
bably written  soon  after  Henry^s  death,  he  says  that  he 
had  seen  an  ostrich  in  England  in  the  time  of  king  Henry.  || 
He  states  that  when  he  wrote  the  work  just  alluded  to 
he  was  forty  years  old,  and  that  he  had  written  on  his- 
tory when  younger.lf    This  is  no  doubt  an  allusion  to  his 

*  Prologua,  lib.  ii.  Hist.  Reg.  Angl.  In  the  prologae  to  lib.  iii.  he  tells 
us  that  one  of  his  parents  was  Norman,  the  other  English,  ntrinsqne  gentis 
sangaiaem  traho. 

t  He  gives  himself  the  first  of  these  titles  In  the  introduction  to  his  His- 
torin  NoTellsB. 

X  So  Leland  informs  us,  on  the  authority  of  his  Itinerary  of  Abbot  Johtti 
now  lost.  §  Nostri  temporis  regum. 

II  Qualem  in  Anglia  yidimus  tempore  regis  Henrici  eztraneorum  mon- 
strorum  appetentissimi.  Expos.  Thren.  Hierem.  MS.  Bodl.  No.  868, 
quoted  by  Sharpe. 

f  Otim  «urn  historiis  lasi,  viridioribus  annis  remmque  Istiti»  congruebat 
rerum  jocunditas ;  nunc  astas  progressior  et  fortuna  deterior  alind  dioendi 
genus  expostulant.  Quadragenarius  sum  hodie.  Pnef.  in  Expos.  Thren* 
Hierem.  This  was  probably  written  in  the  midst  of  some  family  griefs : 
from  the  manner  in  which  he  speaks  of  his  being  forced  to  be  a  schohur,  I 
think  it  probable  that  William  was  a  younger  son  of  a  rich  and  at  least 
knightly  family,  and  that  it  was  his  father  who  was  a  Norman,  and  his 
mother  a  Saxon. 


136  WILLIAM  OF  MALMSBURY.       [Flourished 

five  books  of  the  History  of  the  EngUsh  Kings,  of  which 
the  first  three  were  published  separately,  and  followed  by 
the  other  two ;  and  these  last,  as  appears  evidently  by  the 
manner  in  which  the  author  addresses  Robert  earl  of  Glou- 
cester at  the  end,  were  published  during  the  life  of 
Henry  I.*  He  wrote  the  life  of  Wulstan  before  1140, 
for  it  is  addressed  to  Guarin  prior  of  Worcester,  who  died 
in  that  year.  It  is  probable  that  William's  next  work, 
after  the  Commentary  on  Jeremiah,  was  the  Gesta  Ponti- 
ficumy  or  History  of  the  English  Bishops.  In  the  prologue 
to  this  work  he  speaks  of  his  history  of  the  English  kings  as 
having  been  written  formerly ;  t  but  his  reluctance  to  speak 
of  his  contemporaries  deprives  us  of  the  means  of  fixing 
its  exact  date.  As,  however,  he  speaks  of  the  death  of 
Thurstan  archbishop  of  York,  which  occurred  on  the  5  th  of 
February  1140,  and  mentions  Robert  de  Betun  bishop  of 
Hereford  as  still  alive,  the  book  must  have  been  written 
between  1140  and  1148,  in  which  latter  year  Robert  de 
Betun  died.  He  says  in  this  work  that  he  was  then  occu- 
pied in  writing  the  lives  of  some  of  the  native  saints,  X 
alluding  probably  to  the  lives  of  Dunstan,  Patrick,  In- 
dract,  and  others.  The  HistoruB  NovelUSy  or  modem  his- 
tories, dedicated  to  Robert  earl  of  Gloucester,  must  have 
been  written  between  1142,  at  the  end  of  which  year  they 
conclude,  and  1 147,  when  the  earl  died.  We  cannot  doubt 
that  William  of  Malmsbury  was  alive  in  this  latter  year, 
because  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  who,  as  is  shown  in  the 

*  De  militise  porro  vestrs  indoBtria  qiiis  haesitat,  cum  earn  exceUentissi- 
mils  pater  in  vobU  sutpiciat  ?  Cum  enim  aliqui  motus  in  Normannia  nuH' 
eianturf  vot  pramittitt  et  virtute  yestra  profligentur  suspecta»  sagacitate 
redintegretur  concordia :  cum  redit  in  regnunif  vos  reducitf  ut  titis  eifori» 
tuteUpt  domi  latitia,  omamenio  ubigue. 

t  Nee  puto  a  ratione  dividere»  ut  qui  quondam  regum  Anglonim  gesta 
perstrinxi,  nunc  Anglorum  pontificum  nomina  transcurram. 

X  In  indigenanim  saactorum  miraculifl  manus  occupatas  habeo. 


in  1140.]  WILLIAM    OF    MALMSBURY.  137 

article  dedicated  to  him,  wrote  in  that  year,  speaks  of 
him  and  of  Henry  of  Huntingdon  as  being  then  still  occu- 
pied in  writing  on  English  history.*  His  latest  work 
with  which  we  are  acquainted  was,  probably,  the  History 
of  Glastonbury,  in  which  he  speaks  of  having  formerly 
written  the  life  of  Dunstan  in  two  books,  the  life  of  St. 
Patrick,  the  Miracles  of  Benignus,  and  the  Martyrdom  of 
Indractus.  He  speaks  of  the  election  of  Henry  of  Blois  to 
the  abbacy  of  Glastonbury  (in  1126)  and  to  the  bishopric 
of  Winchester  not  long  after  \  (in  1129)  in  a  manner  which 
would  lead  us  to  believe  that  it  was  written  some  years 
after  the  latter  event ;  and  he  addresses  the  book  to  Henry 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  who,  if  the  name  be  not  a  mistake  of 
the  scribes  (for  no  Henry  bishop  of  Lincoln  is  mentioned 
in  this  century),  must  have  been  a  successor  of  Robert  de 
Chesney,  who  died  in  1147.  We  have  no  means  what- 
ever of  fixing  the  date  of  WiUiam^s  death. 

William  of  Malmsbury  was  the  first  English  writer 
after  the  time  of  Bede  who  attempted  successfully  to 
raise  history  above  the  dry  and  undigested  details  of  a 
chronicle.  He  boasts,  and  not  without  reason,  of  his  in- 
dustry in  coUecting  materials.  J  We  cannot  discover  that 
he  used  any  written  authorities  for  the  earlier  portion  of 
his  history  except  such  as  are  well  known;  but  he  lived 

*  RegeB  vero  Sazonmn  Guillelmo  Malmesberiensi  et  HeDiico  Hontendo- 
nensi  (permitto)  :  quos  de  regibus  Britonum  tacere  jubeo,  cum  non  habeant 
Ulum  librum  BritaDnici  sermonis,  quern  Gualterus  Oxenefordensis  Archi- 
diaconus  ex  Britannia  advexit,  quern  de  historia  eorum  veracitas  aditum  in 
honore  preedictorum  principum  hoc  modo  in  Latinam  sermonem  transferre 
curavi.     Galfr.  Monumet.  Hist.  Britonum,  in  epilog. 

f  Qui  etiam  Episcopus  Wintoniensis  non  multo  post  factns  est.  W. 
Malmsb.  de  Antiq.  Giaston.     Sub  fine. 

X  Cseternm  in  utramvis  partem  prssentium  non  magnipendo  judicium, 
habiturus  ut  spero  apud  posteros,  post  decessum  amoris  et  livoris,  si  non 
eloquentie  tituluro,  saltem  industriee  testimonium.  Prolog,  in  lib.  i.  De 
Gest.  Reg.  Angl. 


138  WILLIAM   OF  MALM8BUBT.         [FhUfishcd 

at  a  period  when  a  vast  number  of  valuable  traditions  and 
legends  of  the  Saxon  times  still  existed,  and  he  foita-< 
nately  had  the  taste  to  collect  many  of  them  and  preserve 
them  in  his  work.  On  this  account,  next  to  the  Saxon 
Chronicle,  he  is  the  most  valuable  authority  for  Anglo- 
Saxon  history.  In  his  annals  of  the  Norman  period^  and 
of  his  own  time,  he  is  judicious,  and,  as  far  as  could  bf 
expected,  imprejudiced :  and  his  constant  reluctance  to 
treat  of  the  period  at  which  he  was  writing  shows  his 
desire  to  be  unbiassed  and  impartiaL  He  was  evidently  a 
good  scholar,  and  had  read  much«  His  Latin  is  not  inoor*- 
rect,  and  his  style  is  much  more  pleasing  than  that  of  any 
previous  writer  of  English  history.  This  circumstance  con* 
tributed  much  towards  procuring  for  his  book  the  great 
popularity  which  it  afterwards  enjoyed.  It  is  difficult  to 
give  any  sufficient  idea  of  the  style  of  a  writer  like  Wil- 
liam of  Malmsbury  in  a  small  compass :  but  we  quote  his 
reflections  on  the  battle  of  Hastings  as  the  best  specimen 
that  can  be  given : — 

lUa  fail:  dies  fittalis  Anglic^  fonettom  acidium  didcit  palriiR,  pro  hoto- 
nun  dominonim  commutatio&e.  Jam  eiiim  pridem  morilMU  Anglonun  ia- 
BoeTerat,  qai  yarii  admodum  pro  temporibas  fuere.  Nam  prirnU  adventas 
Boi  azmis  vnltn  et  g6atu  barbarico»  nan  bellico,  rita  fimatioo  Tivebant; 
sed  postmodiun  Chriati  fide  anacepta,  paulatim  et  per  ijioreme»ta  temporia, 
pro  otio  quod  actitabant  exercitiam  armorum  in  secundis  ponentes,  omnem 
in  rdigione  operam  insiimpsere.  Taceo  de  panperibus,  qnoa  fortunarom 
tenuitas  pleramqae  continet  ne  cancellos  justitiB  transgrediantur :  pmter- 
mitto  gradunm  ecdeaiaaticoram  Tirol,  quoa  nonnunqaam  profeaaionia  con- 
toitiui,  sed  et  infamias  metoa  a  vero  deviare  non  sinit.  De  regibua  dioo, 
qui  pro  ampUtudine  mm  poteatatis  Ucenter  indnlgere  Tolaptatibua  posaent ; 
quorum  qnidam  in  patria,  quidam  RornK,  mutato  habitu  csleste  luorati  anat 
regnum,  beatam  nacti  commeroium,  multi  specie  tenna  tota  vita  mnndum 
amplexi,  ut  thesauros  egenia  effund^ent,  monaateriils  dividerent.  Quid 
dicam  de  tot  epiacopiB,  heremitiay  abbatibua  ?  Nonne  tota  insula  indlgena- 
rum  tantis  rellquiis  fu]gurat,  ut  vix  atiquem  vicum  iniignem  prsetereaa*  obi 
novi  sancti  nomen  non  audiaa.  Quam  multonun  etiam  periit  memoria,  pro 
Bcriptorum  inopia!  Verumtamen  Uteraram  et  religionis  atudia  eetate  proce- 
dente  obsolererunt,  non  panda  ante  adventum  Normannomm  annis.  Clerioi 
Uteratura  tumultoaria  contenti,  viz  sacramentorum  verba  bidbutiebaat :  atn- 


in  1140«]  WILUAM   09  MALK6BURT.  139 

pori  et  miracajo  trat  cftttris  qmi  grammatical  noiiet.  Monachi  nbtiUbns 
indumentis  et  indiifeFenti  genere  ciborum  regcdam  Ittdificabant.  Optimatea 
gals  et  Teneri  dediti,  ecdesiam  more  Christiano  mane  non  adibant :  led  in 
oMtai»  et  Mtr  «xorioa  am]ilexM  matatfcDanDB  ■okmnia  et  miaiaram  a  fea- 
tmante  preabjtero  anribiu  tantnm  libabant.  YvUgoM  in  medio  ezpoaitwa 
prteda  erat  potentioribuB,  ut  Tel  eonim  substantiia  ezhaustiB,  vel  etiam  cor- 
perlbui  In  longinqnai  terras  dlstraetis,  acerroa  tfaesanrorum  congererent, 
qvan^Mun  mi^  ingcnltim  «t  ilU  genti  oommeaiatioubui  qqam  optfibw 
inhiare.  Iliad  erat  a  natora  abhorrena,  quod  molti  anciUaa  snaa  ex  ae  gra^ 
▼Idas,  ubi  libidini  latisfecissent,  ant  ad  publicum  prostibulum  ant  ad  «ter- 
iram  ohaaqoiwa  «wdlcabBnt.  Pelabatar  in  oommnne  ab  onmiboa»  in  hoc 
Btadio  noctea  peitnde  «t  diea  perpetnaiitihnii  partia  et  abjeetis  domibna 
totos  fomptaa  abaamebant;  Francis  et  Normannis  absimiles,  qai  amplis  et 
snperbis  cdiftcHa  modlcaa  expensaa  agoiit.  Sequebantor  vitia  ebrietatia 
soda,  quae  ffavrvn  aniaNa  eJwimtnait.  Blue  Aietnm  est,  nt  aaagia  temeii* 
t^te  at  furore  pnecipiti  qoam  acientia  militari  WaUialmo  congresajl,  «no  pro« 
lio  et  ipso  perfiacili,  serritati  se  patriamque  pessnmdederint.  Nihil  enim 
temeiitabe  lerina,  sed  qnlcqvld  cam  impeta  inchoat,  cito  desinit  ^el  compes- 
citor.  Ad  sammam,  tanc  erant  Angli  veatibua  ad  asediam  genn  eoEpedltl, 
crines  tonsii  barbaa  raai»  armiUia  aureia  brachia  onerati,  pictoratia  atipna- 
tiboa  catem  inaigniti ;  in  dbla  orgentes  crapulam,  in  potibus  irritantea  Tomi- 
cam.  Et  hsc  qnidem  extrema  fictoribas  suis  participanmt,  de  caeterls  in 
aornm  moraa  tranaanntaa.  Sad  hiso  mala  de  oaonibva  generalitcr  Anglis 
dicta  intelligi  nolim.  Scio  dericos  mnltos  tunc  temporis  simplici  vita  semif 
tam  sanctitatiB  trlYisse :  sdo  moltoa  laicos  omnis  generis  et  conditionis  in 
1mm  aadem  genta  Deo  plaeidaM^  ftMaaaat  ab  hae  relalioDe  inridia;  non 
eonotos  pariter  b«c  InroMt  cahimnia.  Vemm  aicot  in  tranqoiUltatB  maloa 
com  bonis  fovet  plerumque  Dd  serenitasi  ita  in  captiTitate  bonoa  com 
malla  nonnnnqnam  ^nsdem  conatringit  sereritas.  Porro  Normanni  (at  de 
da  qn«Miae  diem)  arant  tunc  ct  aont  adhnc  vaatibos  ad  invidiam  coltl,  dbia 
dtra  oUam  nimietatem  delicati:  gens  militise  assueta,  et  sine  bello  pane 
yiyere  nesda,  in  hostem  impigre  procurrere ;  et  ubi  vires  non  sncoessissenty 
non  mlnna  dolo^et  peennk  corrampere.  Domi  ingentia  aedificia  (at  dizi) 
modaratos  awnptiia  moliiii  paribna  iimdara»  anperiorea  prmtergftdi  YaUa» 
aubjectoa  ipsi  yelUcantea  ab  alienis  tutari:  dominis  fideles»  mozqna  leyi 
oiTenaa  infidda.  Cam  ftito  ponderare  perfidiam,  cum  nummo  mutare  sen- 
tantiaaa.  Cvtannn  omniom  gentiam  benigniasimi  adyenaa  seqnali  secum 
honore  colunt ;  matrimonia  qnoqna  cum  aubdltis  jungont.  Bdigioaia  no»- 
mam  in  Anglia  nsquequaque  emortuam  adventu  suo  susdtarunt*  Videas 
nbique  in  yilHs  ecclesias,  in  yicis  et  orblbus  monasteria  novo  eediftcandi 
genere  comrargere :  reoenti  ritn  patriam  ilorsre>  ita  at  sibi  perisse  diem  qui- 
que  opulentua  ezistimeti  quam  non  aliqua  prseclara  magnificanCia  illnatrat. 

William  of  Malmsbury  was  a  prolific  writer,  and  most  of 
the  works  which  proce^ed  from  his  pen  are  preserved. 
They  are. 


140  WILLIAM  OF  MALMSBURY.       [Flourished 

1.  The  History  of  the  Kings  fHistoria  Reguin  Anglo- 
rum),  extending  from  the  first  entry  of  the  Saxons  to  the 
year  1120,  in  five  books,  of  which  there  have  been  several 
editions.    The  manuscripts  of  this  work  are  numerous. 

2.  The  HistoruB  Novella,  in  two  books,  including  the 
history  of  the  period  from  1126  to  1143.  This  likewise 
has  been  printed  more  than  once. 

3.  Four  books  of  the  histories  of  the  English  bishops, 
De  Gestis  Pontificum  Anghrum,  also  printed. 

4.  The  History  of  Glastonbury,  2)e-4«^ijwt/a/i5i«  Glas- 
tofdensis  Ecclesia,  of  which  there  are  two  editions. 

5.  The  life  of  Aldhelm,  also  twice  printed,  which  is 
generally  considered  as  the  fifth  book  of  the  History  of 
the  English  Bishops. 

6.  The  life  of  Wulstan,  printed  by  Wharton  in  the  An- 
glia  Sacra. 

7.  The  life  of  Dunstan,  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in 
the  Bodleian  Library  (MS.  Rawlinson,  No.  263). 

8.  Four  books  of  Commentaries  on  the  book  of  Lamen- 
tations, also  preserved  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  MS.  Bod- 
ley,  No.  868 ;  and  formerly  in  a  manuscript  in  the  Qot- 
tonian  Library,  Tiberius  A.  xii.  which  perished  in  the 
fire. 

9.  The  Miracles  of  St.  Andrew,  DeMiractMs  S.  Andrea, 
preserved  in  MS.  Cotton.  Nero,  E.  i.  fol.  51,  v®.;  and  in 
another  volume  in  the  same  collection,  Tiberius,  D.  iii., 
now  nearly  destroyed.  It  is  stated  in  the  prologue  to  be 
an  abridgement  of  an  older  and  larger  work. 

10.  An  abridgement  of  the  treatise  of  Amalarius  on  the 
offices  of  the  church,  Abbreviatio  Amalarii  de  Ecclesiasticis 
Officiis,  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the  archiepiscopal 
library  at  Lambeth,  No.  380. 

11.  An  epitome  of  the  history  of  Aimon  of  Fleury, 


in  lliO.]  WILLIAM   OF   MALMSBURY.  141 

Epitome  HisioruB  Aimonis  FUynacefma,  preserved  in  the 
Bodleian  Library,  MS.  Selden,  Arch,  B.  16. 

12.  The  martyrdom  of  Indractus^  an  Irish  saint,  also 
preserved  in  the  Bodleian  library^  MS.  Digby,  No.  112. 

13.  A  life  of  St.  Patrick,  extracts  from  which  are  given 
by  Leland,*  but  the  book  itself,  as  well  as  those  which 
follow,  appears  to  be  now  lost. 

14.  The  life  of  St.  Benignus,  which  the  author  mentions 
in  his  history  of  Glastonbury. 

15.  A  collection  of  miracles  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  which 
was  seen  by  Leland.t 

16.  An  account  of  the  journey  of  abbot  John  towards 
Rome,  Itinerarium  Johannis  ahbaiis  Meldunensia  versus 
Romamy  of  which  Leland  also  saw  a  copy.^ 

17«  A  Latin  poem,  in  fifteen  books,  entitled  De  Serie 
Evangelistaruniy  of  which  Leland  found  a  copy  in  the 
library  of  Malmsbury.  § 

18.  Another  metrical  work  on  the  miracles  of  St. 
Alfgiva. 

Bale  gives  the  titles  of  one  or  two  other  works  pre- 
tended to  be  written  by  William  of  Malmsbury,  but  there 
is  no  other  authority  for  them.  He  is  believed  to  be  the 
writer  of  the  marginal  notes  to  a  volume  in  Baliol  college, 
Oxford,  which  contains  Eutropius,  Paulus  Diaconus, 
Jornandes,  Aimon  (abbreviated),  and  Orosius.  || 

*  CoUectan.  vol.  ii.  p.  336. 

t  CoUectan.  toL  It.  p.  155. 

:  CoUectan.  vol.  iii.  p.  272  (ed.  1774). 

§  Leland,  CoUectan.  vol.  iii.  p.  364, 

II  See  Tanner,  BibUoth.  p.  360.  It  appears  that  in  the  Lambeth  Library, 
MS.  No.  3S4,  there  is  a  manuscript  of  some  of  the  works  of  Anselm  in 
WiUiam  of  Malmsbury's  hand-writing,  with  the  foUowing  lines  prefixed : 

Dispatat  Anselmus  pnesnl  Cantorburiensis, 
Scribit  WiUelmns  monachns  Malmesberiensis : 
Ambos  gratifice  complectere,  lector  amice. 


142  WILLIAM  OF  MALMBBtTRT.      lHoUfished  1140. 


BditUnu, 

Remra  Brftannicanun,  id  est  Angliae,  Scoti»,  yicinarainqae  inialtfnm  ac 
regioniimy  scriptores  Tetostlores  ac  pnecipul.  By  Hleronymui  Comme- 
linu.  Logdimi,  1587.  fol.  pp.  881*-S48.  De  GMtia  Anglomm  libri 
tres,  inoerto  auctore.  A  mutilated  copj  of  the  three  first  books  of 
William  of  Malmsbiuy. 

Remm  ADgUcanim  Scriptores  post  Bedam  pnecipui,  ex  TehtstlBBimts  eodid* 
bus  mannscriptis  nunc  primum  in  luoem  editL  Bdited  by  Savile« 
Lond.  1596.  fol.— Franoofurti,  1601.  fol.  pp.  6—174.  l^nUiehni  mo- 
nachi  Malmsburiensis  de  Gestis  Regum  Anglorum,  libri  V. — ^pp.  174 — 
195.  Histori»  Novelise,  lib.  II.->pp.  195—994.  De  Qestis  POntifteum 
Anglorum»  libri  IV. 

Determinatio  Fr.  Joannis  Parisiensis  PrsedicatoriSi  de  Modo  Ezistendi  Cor- 
pus Christ!  in  Sacramento  Altaris.  Londini,  1686.  8to.  pp.  83 — 84. 
Bzcerptam  ex  Abbreviatione  Amalaril  per  WUlelmum  ICabneaburi- 
ensem. 

Historiae  Britannicae,  Saxonicae»  Anglo- Danicae*  Scriptores  XV.  exVetustis 
Codd.  MSS.  editi  Opera  Thomae  Oale.  Oxon.  1691.  fol.  (The  third 
Tol.  of  Gale's  Collection),  pp.  891 — 335,  WiUialmus  MalmeiBburieiisis 
de  Antiquitate  Glastoniensis  Eoclesiae.-.-  pp.  337 — 381«  Wilhelmi 
Malmesburiensb  Liber  V.  de  Pontlficibus.  (The  life  of  Aldhelm,  not 
printed  in  Savile*s  edition.) 

Aqglia  Sacra,  sive  Collectio  Historiarum,  antiquitos  scriptarwiii  de  Aichie- 
piscopis  et  Episcopis  Anglise,  a  prima  Fldei  Christianse  susceptione  ad 
annum  MDXL.  Pars  secunda.  Londini,  1691.  fol.  pp.  1—49, 
Liber  quintns  Wilhelmi  Malmesberiensis  de  PontiAdbus  Anglonim  i  seu 
Vita  AUhelmi  Scirebumensis  Episoopi.— pp.  239— S70,  Will  Malms* 
beriensis  de  Vita  Wlstani. 

Adami  de  Domerham  Historia  de  Rebus  G^estis  Glastoniensibns....  primus 
In  lucem  protulit  Tho.  Heamius.  Qui  et,  praeter  alia«  • .  •  Guilielmi 
Malmesburiensis  Ubrum  de  Antiquitate  Ecclesiie  Glastoniensis. . .  pras- 
misit.  Oxonii,  1737.  8to.  Vol.  I,  pp.  1— 13S.  William  of  Makns- 
bury's  History  of  Glastonbury. 

Willelmi  MalmesbiriensiB  Monachi  Gesta  Regum  Anglorum,  atque  Historia 
Novella.  Ad  fidem  codicum  manuscriptorum  recensuit  Thomas  Puffus 
Hardy.  Londini :  1840.  3  vols.  8yo.  Published  by  the  English  His- 
torical Society. 

JYantlation. 

The  History  of  the  Kings  of  England  and  the  Modem  History  of  William  of 
Malmesbury.  Translated  from  the  Latin  by  the  Rer.  John  Sharpe. 
London,  1815.    4to. 


143 


GEOFFREY  OP  MONMOUTH. 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  writers  of  the  twelfth  cen« 
tury>  both  for  the  popular  reputation  which  he  has  since 
contiaaed  to  enjoy,  and  the  influence  he  exercised  over 
subsequent  historians,  was  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.  He 
appears  to  have  been  a  native  of  the  town  from  which  he 
takes  his  name ;  probably  he  was  a  monk  of  the  Bene- 
dictine abbey  there,  and  he  was  subsequently  archdeacon 
of  the  church.  He  was  patronised  by  Robert  earl  of  Glou« 
cester,  natural  son  of  king  Henry  L,  and  by  Alexander 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  both  of  them  celebrated  for  their  encou- 
ragement of  learned  men.  He  was  the  friend  of  Walter 
Calenius  archdeacon  of  Oxford,*  also  a  patron  of  learning, 
who,  after  a  visit  to  Britany,  had  brought  home  with 
him  some  books  in  the  Breton  language,  containing  histo- 
ries (or  rather  romances)  then  current  in  that  country, 
which  he  requested  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  to  translatcf 
Geofirey  appears  to  have  enjoyed  the  reputation  of  being 
well  acquainted  with  the  Breton  language ;  and  before  he 
had  proceeded  far  in  his  undertaking  he  was  obliged  to 
lay  it  aside  in  order  to  gratify  the  wish  of  Alexander 
bishop  of  Lincoln  to  possess  a  latin  version  of  the  prophe- 

*  Walter  Caleoiiis  miut  have  been  made  archdeaoon  of  Oxford  when 
young,  and  appears  to  hare  held  that  dignity  during  many  years,  ainoe,  ac- 
cording to  the  anthcritiea  cited  by  Tanner,  we  find  him  described  by  this 
title  in  the  11th  Hen.  I.  (1110  or  1111),  in  1138,  and  in  1147.  There  14»- 
pears  no  reason  for  placing  him  in  the  list  of  English  writers. 

t  Talia  mibi  et  de  taHbus  multotiens  oogitanti,  obtaUt  WaHenis  Oxene- 
fordensis  archidiaconos,  vir  in  oratoria  arte  atque  in  ezoticis  historiis  emdt- 
tos,  qvendam  Britannid  sermonis  librom  Tetustissimam,  qui  a  Bmto  primo 
rege  Britonnm  nsqne  ad  Cadyaladrum  filiom  Cadvalonis  actus  omninm  con- 
tinue et  ez  ordine  perpulcris  orationibus  proponebat,  &c. 


144  OEOFFREY   OF  MONMOUTH.        [Died  1154. 

cies  of  Merlin.*  When  he  had  completed  his  other  work, 
which  he  dedicated  to  the  earl  of  Gloucester,  he  inserted 
in  it  the  prophecies  of  Merlin,  which  form  the  seventh 
book.  The  terms  in  which  he  speaks  of  Alexander  bishop 
of  Lincoln  in  the  prologue  to  this  seventh  book  f  prove 
beyond  a  doubt  that  that  prelate  was  then  dead,  so  that 
we  are  enabled  to  fix  the  date  of  the  publication  of  Geoff- 
rey's history  in  the  autumn  of  the  year  1147,  for  bishop 
Alexander  died  abroad  in  August,  and  earl  Robert  died 
at  the  end  of  October  of  the  same  year.  It  was  partly 
perhaps  the  reputation  of  this  book  which  procured  its  au- 
thor the  bishopric  of  St.  Asaph  in  the  February  of  1152, 
which  he  enjoyed  but  a  very  brief  period,  for  there  seems 
little  reason  to  doubt  that  Geoffrey  died  in  1154.:|:  Geoff- 
rey's ^^  History "  soon  became  extensively  popular,  and 
within  no  long  time  after  its  publication  the  celebrity 
which  he  had  given  to  the  legendary  king  Arthur  obtained 
for  him  the  title  of  Galfridm  Arturus.^ 

It  is  impossible  to  consider  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth's 
History  of  the  British  Kings  in  any  other  light  than  as  a 
tissue  of  fables.  Its  author  was  either  deceived  by  his 
materials,  or  he  wished  to  deceive  his  readers.  It  is  certain 
that,  if  he  did  not  intentionally  deceive,  we  must  under- 
stand, by  tramlatint/  the  Breton  book,  that  he  meant  only 

*  Nondum  autem  ad  hnnc  locum  historue  perveneram,  com,  de  Merlino 
divulgato  roinore,  compellebant  me  undique  contemporanei  mei  prophetias 
ipsiofl  edere,  maxime  autem  Alexander  LlncolDieiuiB  epiacopus,  vir  summ» 
religionls  et  pradentite. 

t  Non  erat  alter  in  clero  aive  in  populo  cui  tot  famularentor  nobiles,  quos 
ipsius  mansueta  pietaa  et  benigna  largitaa  in  obsequium  ejus  allieiebat. 

X  Henry  Wharton,  De  Episcopis  AssaTenB.,  p.  305,  306.  The  Godefri- 
dus  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  whom  Godwin  has  confounded  with  Geoffrey,  was 
certainly  another  person  who  subsequently  held  the  see. 

§  Gaufridus  hie  dictus  est,  agnomen  habens  Arturi ;  pro  eo  quod  fabulas 
dc  Arturo,  &c.  Guil.  Neubrig.  Hist,  prohem. — HistoriaBritonum  a  Galfrido 
Arthuro  tractata.  Girald.  Cambr.  lib.  i,  c.  5. 


1716^11540       GEOFFREY   OF   MONMOUTH.  145 

working  up  the  materials  furnished  by  it  into  his  history ; 
for  some  parts  of  the  latter  work  are  mere  compilations 
by  himself  from  the  old  writers  on  British  affidrs  then  com- 
monly referred  to.    The  question  as  to  the  nature  of  the 
book  which  Geoffirey  obtained  from  Walter  archdeacon  of 
Oxford  is  by  no  means  so  easy  of  solution.     It  is  probable 
that  at  that  time  the  Bretons^  like  all  nations  at  a  certain 
period  of  their  history^  possessed  a  mythic  genealogy  of  their 
princes^  commencing  with  a  long  list  of  heroes  (or  demigods) 
and  continued  down  to  their  great  fabulous  hero  Arthur^ 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  Anglo-Saxon  mythic  genealogy 
is  brought  down  to  Woden^  and  that  Geofirey  of  Mon- 
mouth mistook  this  for  veracious  history»  and  supposed 
that  it  concerned  the  Britons  of  our  island.     If  a  writer  of 
the  twelfth  century  had  treated  in  the  same  manner  the 
mythic  genealogy  of  the  Anglo-Saxons^  with  the  romantic 
legends  relating  to  it  then  in  existence»  he  would  have 
made  a  work  precisely  similar  to  the  History  of  the  British 
Eangs.    The  legends  of  the  British  kings  appear  to  have 
been  brought  over  from  Bretagne,  and  not  to  have  had 
their  origin  among  the  Welsh ;  for  we  not  only  find  no 
traces  of  them  before  the  Norman  conquest»  when  multi- 
tudes of  Bretons  came  in  with  the  invaders»  but^  although 
we  begin  to  observe  traces  of  the  legends  relating  to  Arthur 
and  Merlin  before  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  wrote,  yet  even 
the  Welsh  of  that  time  appear  to  have  rejected  his  narra- 
tive as  fabulous.     Giraldus  Cambrensis»  who  wrote  in  the 
same  century  as  Geoffirey  of  Monmouth»  tells  us  of  a 
Welshman  who  had  the  faculty  of  seeing  evil  spirits»  and 
who  gave  an  unerring  judgment  on  the  truth  or  falsity  of 
books  placed  before  him  or  in  his  hands»  by  the  freedom 
with  which  the  evil  spirits  approached  them:  ^^Once/* 
says  Giraldus,  "  when  he  was  much  tormented  by  the  evil 
spirits,  he  placed  the  Gospel  of  St.  John  in  his  bosom, 

VOL.  II,  I* 


146  OBOFFBBY  or  MONKOUTH.      [DUd  115^. 

when  they  immediately  vanished  from  his  sight,  flying 
away  like  birds ;  afterwards  he  laid  the  gospel  aside,  and 
for  the  sake  of  experiment  took  the  History  of  the  Britons, 
by  GaUridos  Arthurus,  in  its  place,  when  they  returned 
and  covered  not  only  his  body,  but  the  book  in  his  bosom, 
&r  more  thickly  and  more  troublesome  than  usuaL^'* 
A  contemporary  of  Giraldus,  William  of  Newbury,  also 
indicates  the  common  opinion  of  the  falseness  of  this 
history,  and  treats  its  author  with  remarkable  rudeness^f 

In  spite  of  the  judgment  of  the  sober  historians  of  the 
age  in  which  it  was  published,  Oeoffirey's  history  became 
extensively  popular,  and  there  are  few  other  works  of 
which  so  great  a  number  of  copies  exist  in  manuscript. 
He  had,  unknowingly  perhaps,  wandered  from  the  domain 
of  history  into  that  of  romance,  which  was  more  agreeable 
to  the  taste  of  his  time.  His  book  was  soon  translated 
into  Anglo-Norman,  into  English,  and  even  into  Welsh, 
and  each  tuccessive  translator  added  to  his  original  from 
other  legends  or  from  his  own  imagination.  Within  a 
century  after  its  first  publication  it  was  generally  adopted 
by  writers  on  English  history,  and  during  several  centuries 
only  one  or  two  rare  instances  occur  of  persons  who  ven- 

*  Ginld.  Cambr.  Itmer.  Cambri»,  lib.  I,  c,  5, 

t  Quidam  nostris  temporibus  . . .  Gaofridos  hie  dictus  est,  agnomen  habens 
Arturi,  pro  eo  quod  fabulas  de  Arturo  ex  prisda  Britonnm  figmentfa  sumptaa, 
et  ex  proprio  auctaa.  per  auperductDm  Imtim  aermonia  coloreniy  boneato 
biator»  nomine  palliayit  ,  ,  •  Pneterea  in  Ubro  wo,  quem  Britonam  Histo- 
riam  vocat,  qqam  petulanter  et  impudenter  fere  per  omnia  mentiatur,  nemo 
nisi  yetemm  hiatoriaram  ignanxs,  com  in  Ubrum  ilium  inciditi  ambtgere 
iloitar  •  .  •  Omtto  quanta  de  gestia  Britoouip  anta  Julii  Cieaaria  imperinm 
et  adyentum  homo  ille  confident,  vel  ab  aliia  conficta  tanquam  autentica, 
scripserit.  Omitto  quiecunque  in  landibua  Britonum  contra  fidem  hiatorice 
yeritada  delirayit,  &c. — Wil.  Neabrig.  De  rebua  AngUciai  prooem.  It  la 
hardlf  naceaiary  to  refer  to  the  numerona  attempts  which  haye  been  made 
to  defend  Geoffrey  and  his  history :  they  are  chiefly  remarkable  for  their  want 
of  critical  discrimination.  The  introduction  to  Thomson's  translation  may 
be  taken  ai  a  apecimen. 


Died  1154.]      6B0VPRBT  ow  monmouth.  147 

tared  to  speak  Bgainst  its  veracity.  The  beautifdl  stories 
with  which  it  abounds  became  the  foundation  of  a  consi- 
derable portion  of  the  national  literature,  and  its  author 
has  thus  obtained  a  place  among  the  classical  writers  of 
our  island*  The  first  part  of  the  history  of  king  Lear 
will  serve  as  a  specimen  of  Geoffrey's  style^  which  is  not 
superior  to  that  of  the  common  writers  of  his  age. 


OdflQte  isitsr  Iktif  Baldodo  erigitar  Leir  ejusdam  fiUua  in  regem,  qui 
gBxaginU  annis  patriam  Tiriliter  rexit.     ^dificaTit  autem  super  fluYiom 
Soram  ciTitatem  quae  Britonum  lingua  Kaerleir,  Sazonice  Lelrcestre  nnncn- 
patur.    Cni  ncgatn  maaooliBi  loma  prole,  nate  lunt  flliae  treg  roeatsB  Oono- 
riUa,  Bagana,  Cordeilla.  Qui  eaa  miro  amore  sed  maximo  minimamy  Cordeil- 
1am  yidelicet,  diligebat.    Comque  in  senectutem  yergere  coepiaset,  cogitayit 
regnnm  snnm  ipaia  ditidere,  eoqne  talibos  mantis  dare  qui  easdem  cum  regno 
haberent.    Sed  nt  icirei  qoso  illarom  r^gni  potiore  parte  dignior  esset,  adivit 
singulas  sciscitana  qnse  ipsom  ploa  diligeret.    Interrogante  ergo  illo,  Gono- 
rilla  prima  respondente  nnmina  coeli  testata  est  patrem  sibi  plus  cord!  esse 
qnam  animam  qua  degebat  t  oui  pater,  ''Quoniam  seneetutem  meam  Tittt 
tnm  prvpofuisti,  te,  charissinia  filia,  maritabo  juveni  qoemcunque  elegeris, 
cum  tertia  parte  Britanniae."'    Deinde  Ragana,  quee  secunda  erat,  exemplo 
sororis  suae  benerolentiam  patris  allicere  yolens,  Jnrejurando  respondit  se 
nnllatanus  conceptum  ezprimere  posse,  nisi  quod  ipsum  super  oranes  crea* 
tnraa  diligerat.   Credulus  ergo  pater  eadem  dignitate  quam  primogenitae  pro- 
miserat,  cum  tertia  yidelicet  parte  regni  eam  maritandam  ducit.    At  Cor- 
deiUa  ultima  cum  intellexisset  cum  praedictamm  adulationibus  acquievisse, 
tentare  ilium  cupieus  aliter  respondere  pergit ;  **  Est  uspiam,  mi  pater,  tilia 
quae  patrem  suum  plusquam  patrem  dillgere  praesumat  i  Non  reor  equidem 
uUam  esse  quae  hoc  fateri  audeat,  nisi  jooosis  verbia  Teritatem  celare  nitatur : 
nempe  ego  dilezi  te  semper  ut  patrem,  nee  adhne  a  proposito  diver ter,  etai  a 
me  magis  eztorquere  insistis  <  audi  in  te  mei  amoris  quantitatem,  et  quem 
adversus  te  jugiter  habeo,  et  interrogationibus  tuia  iinem  impone,  etenim 
quantum  babes  tantum  ndes  tantumque  te  diligo/'     Porro  pater  iratus  eam 
ex  abundantia  stomachi    dixisse  yehementer   indignans,  quae  respondens 
erat  manifestare  non  distulit ;  ^  Quia  in  tantum  senectutem  patris  tui  spre- 
yisti,  ut  yel  eo  amore  quo  me  sorores  tnae  diligunt  dedignata  es  diligere,  ego 
et  te  dedignabor,  nee  «squam  in  regno  meo  cum  tuis  sororibus  partem 
babebis :  non  dico  tamen,  cum  filia  mea  sis,  quin  alicui  (ai  ilium  fortuna 
obtulerit)  utcunque  maritem ;  iUud  autem  affirmo,  quod  nnnquam  eo  honore 
quo  sorores  tuas  te  maritare  laborabo,  quippe  cum  te  hucusque  plusquam 
caeteras  dilexerim,  tn  yero  me  minus  quam  reliquae  diligas.*'  Nee  mora,  con- 
silio  procerum  regni  dedit  prtedictas  puellas  duas  duobus  ducibus,  Comubiae 
yidelicet  et  Albaniie,  com  medietatse  tantum  insules  dum  Ipse  viyeret,  post 

l2 


148  OEOFFREY   OF  MONMOUTH.        [Died  1154. 

obitum  autem  ejus  totam  monarchiam  Britaniu»  eudem  habendam  con* 
cedebat. 

It  has  been  already  observed  that  the  prophecies  of 
Merlin  formed  originally  a  distinct  work  from  the  His- 
tory of  the  Britons:  we  frequently  find  it  separate  in 
early  manuscripts^  and  in  the  thirteenth  century  it  was 
made  the  subject  of  a  learned  commentary  by  Alanus  de 
Insulis^  which  contains  some  valuable  notices  of  English 
history.  Another  life  of  Merlin,  written  in  very  superior 
Latin  verse,  has  also  been  long  attributed  to  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth,  but  apparently  without  sufficient  reason.  In 
this  poem  the  subject  is  treated  in  a  manner  so  entirely 
different  from  the  prose  account  of  MerUn  by  Geoffrey, 
and  it  is  written  with  so  much  more  spirit  and  genius,  that 
we  can  hardly  doubt  its  being  the  composition  of  another 
person.  None  of  the  allusions  of  the  writer  of  the  poem  to 
himself  agree  with  the  person  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth. 
He  speaks  of  himself  as  a  well  known  poet ;  he  addresses 
his  poem  to  Robert  bishop  of  Lincoln,  *^the  glory  of 
prelates,'^  and  complains  of  the  neglect  with  which  he  had 
been  treated  by  his  predecessor. 

Fatidici  vatia  rabiem  musamque  jocosam 
Merlini  cantare  paro :  tn  corrige  cannen* 
Gloria  pontificam,  calamos  moderando,  Roberte  I 
ScimuB  enim  quia  te  perfadit  Dectare  sacro 
PhiloBophia  snoi  fecitque  per  omnia  doctom, 
Ut  docnmenta  dares,  dux  et  praeceptor  in  orbe. 
Ei^o  meis  coeptis  fayeas,  vatemqae  tueri 
Auapicio  meliore  velis,  qnam  fecerit  alter 
Coi  modo  succedis,  merito  promotuB  honori  : 
Sic  etenim  mores,  sic  yita  probata  genusque, 
Utilitasque  loci,  cleros  populusque  petebant; 
Unde  modo  felix  Lincolnia  fertur  ad  astra. 
Ergo  te  cuperem  complecti  carmine  digno : 
Sed  noD  snfficioi  licet  Orpheus  et  Camerinus 
Kt  Macer  et  Marius,  magnique  Rabirius  oris, 
Ore  meo  canerent,  Musis  comitantibus,  omnes. 


Died  1154.]       GEOFFREY   OF   MONMOCJTH.  149 

Ad  YOB|  consnetse  mecum  cantare  Camoente, 
Propositum  cantemus  opus,  cytharunque  sonate. 

Robert  de  Cheineto^  the  only  Robert  to  whom  Geoffirey 
could  have  dedicated  the  poem^  had  not  the  slightest  claim 
to  any  of  the  epithets  here  bestowed  on  Robert  bishop  of 
Lincoln^  whose  predecessor  Alexander  was  the  historian's 
patron  and  friend ;  while  the  description  applies  so  ex- 
actly to  the  great  philosopher  of  the  thirteenth  century, 
Robert  Orostdte,  that  we  can  hardly  hesitate  in  attributing 
the  metrical  life  of  Merlin  to  some  poet  who  sought  his 
patronage.  The  error  appears  to  have  arisen  from  the 
following  lines  found  at  the  end  of  the  poem  in  the  only 
perfect  manuscript  now  extant,  and  probably  composed 
toward  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century  by  some  writer 
who,  finding  it  without  any  name  of  its  author,  was  led  by 
its  subject  to  attribute  it  to  Geofirey  of  Monmouth : — 

Duzimua  ad  metam  caimen :  yoa  ergo,  Britanni, 
Laurea  serta  date  Gaofrido  de  Monumeta. 
£st  etenim  Tester :  nam  quondam  pralia  Teatra 
Vettronimque  ducum  cednit,  aeripaitque  libellum 
Quem  nunc  Gesta  vocant  Britonnm  celebrata  per  orbem. 

Another  work  has  been  attributed  with  still  less  reason 
to  Geofirey  of  Monmouth.  It  is  extant  in  two  manu- 
scripts in  the  Library  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cam- 
bridge,* and  is  entitled  Compendium  Gaufredi  de  Corpore 
Christi  et  Sacramento  EucharistuB.  But  its  author  ap- 
pears to  have  been  a  Frenchman,  who  was  in  his  youth  a 
disciple  of  Abelard,  until  he  deserted  his  school  to  range 
himself  under  the  scholastic  banner  of  St.  Bernard ;  it  is 
in  fact  a  well-known  treatise  of  Geofirey  of  Auxerre.  Bale 
gives  several  other  titles  of  books  pretended  to  have  been 
written  by  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  which  are  so  evidently 
the  ofilspring  of  his  own  imagination  that  they  deserve  no 
further  consideration. 

•  No.  177|  art.  44,  and  No.  331,  art.  8. 


150  GBOFVRBT  OF  MONMOUTH.      [Died  11 64* 


SdittOM, 

Brit&nie  vtrinsq)  reg;a  8t  pricipu  Origo  &  Gesta  iniigiiia  ab  Galfrido  Mone- 
matenfti  «z  afitiqiiiflBiiiiit  Britaimici  seilnoiiui  mofntiftientig  in  Lstinam 
wrmoBem  S  iradnota  &  ab  Aacensio  o«n  &  impSdio  auigiatn  I«OBle 
Cauellati  in  luoem  edita :  proatant  in  eiuadem  «edibaB.  4to.  Id.  Jul. 
1508. 

Britamd»  Ttrinaqi  Begfl  «t  Prln«ipiim  Origo  &  gaatft  ilkrignlA  ab  GiUrldo 
Monemntenai  ex  antiqviaaimia  Britannid  aermonia  aonvmentia  in 
Tiatinnin  traducta :  &  ab  Aacenaio  nmua  majore  accuratione  impreaia. 
Vgentmdantnr  in  einsdem  eedibus.    4 to.    Id.  Septem.  1517. 

Renun  Britannicanuni  in  est  Angliae,  Sootiaef  ti<iinar«lD<|M  HiaulanHn  ae 
regionnm,  Soriptorea  yetnatioreB  ac  prtBcipvi*  Fol.  Heidelberg,  (Com- 
melin.)  1587.  pp.  1 — S^t  Galfiredi  MonumetenBia  Historiie  Regom 
Britanme. 

Prophetia  Anglicamii  Merlini  Ambrosii  Britaani,  oi  incnbo  olim  («t  bond- 

num  fama  eat)  ante  annoB  mille  ducentoB  circiter  in  Anglia  nati,  Yati- 

dnia  et  Pnedictiones ;  a  Galfredo  Monumetensi  Latine  convense  :  una 

cum  Beptem  libria  ejrplanationum. .  • .  Alani  de  InBolia,  &c.  Franoofilftli 

1603.     Small  8to< 

Propbetia  ADglicana  et  Roman»,  hoe  est,  Merlini  Ambroaii  Britanni,  ex 
incubo  olim  ante  annos  mille  ducentos  in  Anglia  nati,  Vaticinia,  a  Gal- 
fredo Monumetenai  Latine  eonsoripta,  una  cum  Septem  librit  Explana- 
tionum. . . .  Alani  de  Inaulia,  &e.     Francof)Brti«  1608«  Sro. 

Gaofiridi  Arthur!  Monenatheaaia  Arcbldiatfoni,  postaa  Tero  eplaoopi  Aaa- 
phenBifl,  de  Vita  et  Vatioiniia  MerllBi  Calidonil  carmen  herokum.  Lon- 
dini,  1830.  4to.  Edited  by  W.  H.  Blaek,  for  the  Roabtrghe  Club. 

Galfridi  de  Monemuta  Vita  Merlini.  Vie  de  Merlin  attribu^  k  Geoifiroy  de 
Monmouth,  auivie  dcB  Proph^tieB  de  ce  Barde,  tir^  du  iv*  Uvre  de 
PHlstolre  des  Bretons ;  publics,  d*aprd8  lea  Manuaerita  de  Londres, 
par  Franoisqua  Michel  et  Thmnaa  Wright.    Parkiis,  1837.  8to« 

Galfridi  Monumetenaia  Hiatoria  Britonum,  nunc  primum  in  Anglia  ex  noyem 
codicibuB  MSStis.  edita,  ab  I.  A.  Giles,  e  C.C.C.  Ozon.  8to.  (M  th€ 
pten.) 

TVamlatiofU. 

The  British  History,  translated  into  English  from  the  Latin  of  Jeifrey  of 
Monmouth.  With  a  large  Preface  concerning  the  authority  of  the 
History.  By  Aiuron  Thompson^  lato  of  Ctoeen'a  Cdkge,  Ozon.  8to« 
London,  1718. 

The  British  History  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.  In  twelTO  books.  Trana- 
lated  from  the  Latin,  by  A.  Thompson,  Esq.  A  new  edition,  rerised 
and  oorreetod,  by  J.  A.  Giles,  LL.Di  8to.  London,  1843. 


151 


GAIMAR  AND  DAVID. 

Geoffrey  GAiMARWas  a  distdnguiahed  trouv^re  of  the 
reign  of  Stephen.  All  we  know  of  bis  personal  history  is 
that  he  was  attached  to  the  household  of  Constance^  the 
wife  of  Ralph  Fitz  Gilbert^  at  whose  request  he  composed 
his  history  of  England  in  Anglo-Norman  verse.  He  was 
the  first  who  published  an  Anglo-Norman  version  of  the 
History  of  the  British  Kings  by  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth. 
He  gives  an  account  of  the  materials  he  used  in  the  fol- 
lowing lines,  which  have  been  strangely  misunderstood 
and  misinterpreted  by  the  abbe  de  la  Rue,  who  beheved 
that  he  translated  his  history  of  the  British  kings  from  a 
Welsh  book  independently  of  the  history  of  Geoffrey. 

Ici  Toil  del  rei  finer. 
Ceste  estorie  fist  translater 
DatM  Cuatance  1«  gentil ; 
Gaimar  i  mist  Mars  e  Averil 
E  tuz  lea  dusze  mais, 
Ainz  k'il  oust  translatt^  des  reis. 
U  purchaoa  maint  eaamplaire, 
Liverea  EnglAia  e  par  gramaire, 
£  en  Romanz  e  en  Latin, 
Alnz  k*en  pnst  traire  i  la  fin. 
Si  aa  dame  ne  U  aidaat^ 
Jk  k  nul  jor  ne  Pacheyast. 
Ele  enveiad  k  Helmeslac 
Par  le  Urere  Walter  Espac. 
Robart  11  quens  de  Gloncettre 
Fist  translater  icele  geste 
Solum  les  lireres  as  Waleis 
K'll  aToient  des  Bretons  reis ; 
Walter  Espec  le  demandat, 
li  quens  Robert  li  enveiat ; 
Puis  le  prestat  Walter  Bspec 
A  Raid  le  llf  Gilebert. 


152  GAiMAR  AND  DAVID.  [Flourished 

Dame  Ciutaiice  I'enpruntat 

De  son  seignur,  k'ele  mult  amat. 

Geffrai  Oaimar  eel  liyere  escrit, 

Le  translata  e  f^s  i  mist 

Ke  li  Waleia  oiirent  leiss^, 

K*il  aveit  ainz  purchase, 

U  fust  k  dreit  u  fust  k  tort, 

li  bon  livere  de  Oxeford, 

Ki  fust  Walter  rarcediaen 

Si  en  amendat  son  livere  bien. 

E  de  Testorie  de  Wincestre 

Fust  amende  ceste  geste ; 

De  Wassingburc  un  livere  Engleis, 

U  il  trovad  escrit  des  reis 

E  de  tuz  les  empemrs 

Ke  de  Rome  fnrent  seignurs, 

E  de  Engleterre  ourent  treu, 

Des  reis  ki  d*els  ourent  tenu, 

De  lur  Ties  e  de  lur  plaix, 

Des  ayentures  e  des  faiz, 

Coment  chescons  maintint  la  terre, 

Quel  ama  pes,  e  liquel  guerre ; 

De  tut  le  plus  pout  9i  trover» 

Ki  en  cest  livere  volt  esgarder. 

It  appears  very  evidently  from  this  recital  that  the  only 
history  of  the  British  kings  used  by  Gaimar  was  the  then 
recently  published  work  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.  He 
says  that  Robert  earl  of  Gloucester  had  caused  it  to  be 
translated  from  the  ^^  Welsh"  book^  a  mistake  in  the  de- 
scription of  the  original^  into  which  he  very  easily  fell, 
considering  the  dubious  import  of  the  Latin  Britanrdcus 
at  that  time.  Walter  Espec,  a  Yorkshire  baron  well  known 
for  his  munificent  liberality,  obtained  a  copy  of  this  book^ 
immediately  after  it  was  completed^  from  earl  Robert 
himself.  Subsequently^  after  long  seeking  for  it^  Gaimar 
heard  of  this  copy  in  the  possession  of  Walter  Espec^  and 
his  patroness^  through  the  means  of  her  husband,  obtained 
the  loan  of  it.  He  repeats  that  the  original  of  this  was 
the  "  Welsh*'  (i.  e.  Breton)  book  of  Oxford,  belonging  to 
.  Walter  the  archdeacon^  information  which  he  gleaned  from 


in  1148.]  QAIMAR   AND    DAVID.  153 

GeoflFrey's  preface.  Gaimar  then  tells  us  that  he  trans- 
lated and  transferred  the  facts  of  the  British  History  into 
his  own  book^  "  and  thereby  improved  his  book  very 
much.'*  His  history  was  also  improved  by  the  Win- 
chester History,  as  well  as  by  an  English  book  of  Wassin- 
burgh,  where  he  found  the  histories  of  the  emperors  of 
Rome  to  whom  England  was  tributary,  and  of  the  kings 
who  held  of  them ;  perhaps  Alfred's  Orosius,  or  a  copy 
of  the  Saxon  Chronicle.  It  it  not  easy  to  say  where  M. 
de  la  Rue  learnt  that  Gaimar  had  Geoffrey's  translation  of 
the  Breton  book  of  Walter  Calenius  and  also  a  translation 
of  a  Welsh  book  of  the  same  history,  and  that  he  cor- 
rected the  one  by  the  other. 

The  History  of  the  British  kings  formed  only  a  portion 
of  Gaimar's  history,  which  was  continued  through  the 
Anglo-Saxon  period  and  the  reigns  of  the  two  first  princes 
of  the  Norman  dynasty ;  and  he  declares  at  the  conclusion 
his  intention  at  a  future  period  of  writing  a  separate  history 
of  the  reign  of  Henry  I.*  The  portion  translated  from 
Geofirey  of  Monmouth  appears  to  have  been  so  entirely 
eclipsed  by  the  later  and  probably  more  ample  ver- 
sion of  Wace,  that  it  seems  now  to  be  lost;  and  the 
only  part  extant  is  the  Anglo-Saxon  history  with  the  con- 
clusion, preserved  in  four  manuscriptsf  as  a  continuation 
of  the  Brut  of  Wace.  Gaimar's  history  is  chiefly  valuable 
for  the  attention  which  he  paid  to  the  traditions  and 
legends  of  his  time,  several  of  which  appear  in  his  story, 
such  as  the  romance  of  Havelok,  and  the  story  of  Here- 

*  Ore  dit  Gaimar,  s'il  ad  guaranty 
Del  rei  Henri  dirrat  avant, 
Ke  8'il  en  volt  an  poi  parler, 
E  de  sa  Tie  translater, 
Tela  mil  choaes  en  purrad  dire 
Ke  unkea  Davit  ne  fist  eacrivere,  &c. 
t  MS.  Reg.  13  A.  XXI.  and  three  mannacripts  in  the  College  of  Arms 
and  in  the  libraries  of  Durham  and  lancoln  Cathedrali • 


\ 


1 54  OAiii AR  AND  DAVID.      [FhuHshed  ]  148« 

ward.  His  style  is^  on  the  whole^  more  pleAsing  than  ihAt 
of  Waoe«  We  are  enabled  to  fix  with  tolerable  precisioii 
the  period  at  which  he  wrote  his  history  by  the  persons  to 
whom  he  alludes.  M.  de  la  Rue  was  wrong  in  supposing 
that  it  must  have  been  finished  before  the  death  of  Robert 
earl  of  Gloucester ;  on  the  contrary  it  is  more  than  pro-' 
bable  that  it  was  begun  subsequently  to  that  event*  But 
ai^  Walter  Espec  died  in  1153|  and,  as  Gaimar  mentions 
Adelaide  of  Louvaine  as  still  living,  who  died  in  1151| 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  our  poet  wrote  between  1147 
and  1151« 

Gaimar  speaks  of  a  contemporary  Anglo-Norman  poet 
named  David,  who  had  written  by  order  of  Adelaide  of 
Louvaine  a  metrical  history  of  the  reign  of  Henry  I.^ which 
Gaimar  blames  as  barren  in  details  and  in  historical  in- 
terest; and  he  advises  him  to  revise  and  enlarge  his  Work. 
Tet  he  says  that  queen  Adelaide  held  it  in  great  esteemi 
and  that  his  patroness  the  lady  Constance  had  given  a 
mark  of  silver  to  have  a  transcript,  which  she  frequently 
read  '^  in  her  chamber.^^*  We  have  no  other  informntion 
relating  to  this  trouvdre  or  his  works* 

Bditiom. 

The  andeiit  English  romance  of  Havdlok  the  Dane ;  acoompaBied  by  the 
French  text :  with  an  Introduction,  Notei,  and  a  Glossary,  by  Frede- 
rick Madden,  Esq. . . .  I^rinted  for  the  Roxbnrghe  Club.  London,  1838. 
4to.  pp.  149—180.  The  portion  of  Gtimar  whkh  relates  to  the  story 
of  Havelok. 

Chroniques  Anglo-Normandes.  Recueil  d'Extraits  et  d'Eorits  relatifs  k 
THistoife  de  Normondie  et  de  FAngleterre  pendant,  les  ici*  et  Sen* 
sitelet ;  public.  •  par  Fmnoisqve  Michel.  Tome  premier.  Sto.  Rodeil^ 
1835.  The  latter  portion  of  Gaimar's  History,  commencing  with  the 
Norman  conquest. 

Collection  of  Historians  edited  by  order  of  the  Record  Commission,  vol.  1. 
pp.  764 — 829)  L'Estorie  dee  Engles  solum  la  Translation  maistre  Gef- 
frei  Gaimar.  The  portion  of  the  history  prerions  to  the  Conquest,  with 
the  concluding  lines  of  the  poem  in  which  the  author  speaks  of  himself 
and  his  undertaking* 

*  SeethtconilttdinglineBof  Gaimar'sHbtory* 


155 


ALFRED  OF  BEVERLEY. 

This  author  derives  his  chief  importance  from  the  dia» 
pute  which  has  arisen  whether  he  preceded  or  came  aftef 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.  Historians  and  hibliographers 
have  all  fixed  at  too  early  a  date  the  period  when  Alfred  of 
Beverley  compiled  his  history*  All  that  we  know  of  his 
life  is  derived  from  his  own  writings.  It  is  probable  that  he 
was  bom  about  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  centuryi  for 
he  states  at  the  commencement  of  his  book  that  the  oolony 
of  Flemings  had  been  planted  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Ross 
on  the  borders  of  Wales^  by  E^ing  Henry  h,  in  bis  time,  an 
event  which  is  considered  to  have  taken  place  about  a«d. 
1105.  He  tells  us  that  in  the  days  of  ^^his  silence/' 
when  the  diocese  of  York  laboured  under  an  interdict,  and 
the  clergy  were  not  allowed  to  perform  their  ecclesiastical 
duties,*  he  tried  to  occupy  his  forced  leisure,  and  turn 
away  his  thoughts  from  the  vexations  with  which  he  was 
encompassed  to  the  study  of  history,  and  from  this  cir- 
cumstance he  derived  his  taste  for  historical  researches. 
There  cannot  be  the  least  doubt  that  Alfred  refers  to  the 
troubles  which  arose  in  the  diocese  of  York  from  the 
rivalry  of  the  two  archbishops,  Henry  and  William,  sup- 
ported scnreraUy  by  the  contending  parties  in  the  dvil  cdn- 
irolsiotis  6f  the  reigti  of  Stephen.f    This  dispute,  which 

*  111  diebtts  iflentH  tttmtti,  (qvoaido  fiOii  poteramud  reddere  0e6  qiife  Dei 
erant,  et  talnen  eogebaniiii'  tedder«  CiMari  qnte  CsesarlK  efant,  qtiod  propter 
pnesentem  ezcommunicatoram  miiltitndinem  secundum  LondoniensiB  oOncilli 
dccretum  A  diriiili  oeiiabamiu»  et  regii^  elaeti<mibiu  aMictl  titam  ttedlosam 
agebamiu,  gfsstfaate  Oppressione  qaa,  ezptilaiB  ad  regis  edictmn  de  sedibtlA 
nds  eeelesUe  nottne  «SolimmiB,  din  graTiterque  Ycxatoi  sum. — AlA*.  BererL 
ia  prolog*  p«  S* 

t  See  Qodwin.  4e  Epiwopii. 


156  ALFRED    OF   BEVERLEY.  IFlowrished 

began  in  1141  or  1142^  causing  the  diocese  to  be  placed 
under  an  interdict^  only  ended  with  the  death  of  arch- 
bishop WiUiam,  who  was  poisoned,  as  it  is  said,  by  his  clergy 
in  1154.  While  occupied  with  his  historical  researches,  it 
appears  that  the  history  of  GeoflBrey  of  Monmouth  was 
published,  and  began  to  create  a  great  sensation.  Alfred, 
hearing  people  talk  of  British  kings  of  whom  he  was  en- 
tirely ignorant,  and  ashamed  to  be  obliged  continually  to 
confess  that  he  knew  nothing  about  them,  became  anxious 
to  obtain  a  sight  of  the  new  history,  and  with  much  diffi- 
culty succeeded.  He  perused  it  with  avidity,  and,  charmed 
with  the  novelty  of  its  contents,  he  would  have  made  a 
transcript  of  it  for  himself,  if  he  had  been  allowed  sufficient 
time  and  had  possessed  money  enough  to  buy  the  materials 
at  once ;  but  this  not  being  the  case,  he  determined  to 
make  an  abridgment  of  it.^  Alfred,  like  Gaimar,  does 
not  mention  the  name  of  Geoffirey  of  Monmouth  as  the 
author  of  the  book  he  abridged,  but  he  quotes  it  by 
the  title  which  Geoffi-ey  gave  to  it,  Histaria  Britonufn,f 
and  no  one  who  has  read  over  the  two  books  can  doubt 
for  a  moment  that  Geoffiey's  history  was  the  original,  for 
Alfred  often  transfers  Geoffirey^s  words  to  his  own  book. 
It  appears  quite  clear,  from  the  manner  in  which  Alfred 
speaks,  that  all  that  was  known  about  this  history  origi- 
nated in  the  work  of  Geoffirey,  and  that  it  was  quite  new 

*  Queesivi  historiam,  et  ea  yix  inventai  lectioni  ejus  intentissime  stndiom 
adhibui.  Dumque  rerum  antiquarum  nova  lectione  delectarer,  mox  mihi 
anlmoB  ad  earn  transcribendam  scatebat,  aed  temporis  opportunitas  et  mar- 
supii  facuUas  non  suppetebat.  Ut  autem  desiderio  gliscenti  aliqua  ex  parte 
satisfacerem. . . .  de  prtefata  historia  quaedam  deflorare  studoi. — Alf.  Bev.  in 
Prolog,  ut  supra. 

t  He  sometimes  refers  his  readers  to  the  Hiitoria  Britonum  for  the 
details  of  the  more  interesting  storiesi  as  in  that  of  Lear, — Qualiter  autem 
vcrgente  eo  in  senium,  ipse  a  duabus  Aliabus  spretus  et  ab  earum  maritis  sit 

pulsatus,  qualiterque  junior  filia  eum  susceperit,  &c Historia  9ritonum 

plenius  docet. — ^Alfr.  Beverl.  p.  14. 


1140—1150.]  ALFRED   OP  BEVERLEY.  157 

even  to  historians^  and  on  that  account  had  excited  much 
curiosity. 

Alfred  goes  on  to  inform  us  that^  having  abridged  the 
history  of  the  Britons^  he  determined  to  abridge  other 
historians^  so  as  to  continue  his  book  through  the  Saxon 
and  Norman  times.  We  trace  as  having  gone  through 
this  process,  among  others,  Bede^  Florence  of  Worcester, 
and  the  northern  writer,  Simeon  of  Durham,  which  his- 
torian appears  to  have  been  the  last  he  used,  for  Alfred's 
history  closes  in  the  same  year  with  that  of  Simeon, 
A.D.  1129,  the  29th  year  of  Henry  I.  Many  writers,  be- 
lieving that  he  continued  his  history  to  the  end  of  his  life, 
have  fixed  upon  that  year  as  the  date  of  his  death,  which 
probably  did  not  take  place  till  the  reign  of  Henry  II.* 
We  only  know  that  he  was  a  monk  of  Beverley ;  the  titles 
in  the  earlier  manuscripts  are  unanimous  that  he  was 
treasurer  of  that  church,  or,  as  one  manuscript  called  him, 
sacristan,  which  was  but  another  name  for  the  same  office. 
Some  modem  writers  have  advanced  the  opinion,  directly 
opposed  to  the  historical  evidence,  that  the  title  of  trea- 
surer was  given  him  only  as  a  literary  honour,  because 
his  book  is  a  treasure  of  history,  which  it  certainly  is  not. 
His  historical  notices  are  extremely  brief,  and  his  style  is 
that  of  the  ordinary  writers  of  his  age  :  the  following  lines 
include  the  period  from  the  battle  of  Hastings  to  king 
William's  departure  for  Normandy. 

Anno  igitur  M^lzvi  ab  incamaUone  Domini  dux  Normannomm  Willielmus, 
occiflo  in  bello  rege  Haroldo,  ab  Hastinga  moyens,  Tastatis  provinciis,  venit 
ad  Wertham,  nbi  Aldredus  archiepiaoopas,  Wlstanua  Wigorniensia  episco-*. 
pu8>  WalteruB  Herefordensis  episcopuS)  clito  EdganUi  comitea  Edwinua  et 


*  He  appears  also  to  have  used  Henry  of  Huntingdoni  from  whom  his 
account  of  the  four  wonders  of  Britain  in  his  prologue  as  it  now  stands,  and 
the  verses  beginning  with  the  words,  *'  Anglia  terra  ferax/'  with  which  John 
Withamstede  says  the  book  commenced,  were  taken. 


ISS  OflBXEN  OF  OLOUCSSTBR.  [Lwcd  in 

HordMJtts,  «t  de  Loadoua  qoiq^g^  maliore*,  cum  mnltU  td  «am  yaiitraiitf 
et  datis  obBidibus  illi  deditionem  fecerant,  fidelitatemque  juravenmt.  Inde 
cum  ezerdtu  Lundoniain  adiit,  et  in  die  Natalia  Domini  ab  Aldredo  Ebora- 
oanii  irelii«pii0opo,  quia  Stigtndua  Cantiuiienaif  arehitpiioopHB  a  papa 
calwmniatm  eratpaUiam  non  siucepiaie  canonicei  apnd  Weitinaiifatcriim  in 
regem  consecratas  est  bonorifice  :  priaa,  ut  idem  arcbiepiscopns  ezi^ebat  ab 
eo,  ante  altare  Sancti  Petri  coram  clero  et  populo  jarejnrando  promittens, 
m  VOU0  iaodM  Dei  meXmua  ac  reotom  eamm  defendflra,  et  «wnetam  popo» 
lum  sibi  «ubjectiun  jiute  nc  r^ali  profidentia  rcgere^  r^ctam  legem  statofira, 
tenere,  rapinas  injustaqne  penitna  interdioere.  Post  hec  in  Qoadrai^efima 
m  WillieiinaB  Nonnanniam  repetiit. 

Bale  has  increased  the  number  of  works  attributed  to 
Alfred  of  Beverley^  by  making  three  different  titlas  out  of 
his  one  known  historical  epitome.  He  is  said  to  have 
written  a  life  of  John  of  Beverley  j  but  we  know  with  more 
certainty  that  he  was  the  author  of  a  work  on  the  rights 
and  privileges  of  his  churchy  which  he  is  said  in  the  title 
to  have  translated  from  English  into  Latin^  and  which 
was  preserved  in  the  Cottonian  library^  but  the  volume 
containing  it  unfortunately  perished  in  the  fire.* 

Edition. 

Alnredi  BeTeriaoensis  Annalea,  sive  Historia  de  Gestis  Regum  Britanaiie» 
Libria  IX.  e  oodice  penFetiisto....De8crfpBit  edlditque  Tbo.  HearaEua. 
OxoDii,  1716«  8yo. 


OSBERN  OP  GLOUCESTER. 

OsBEBN^  monk  of  Gloucester,  who  is  only  known  to  us 
through  his  writings,  holds  a  high  place  among  the  theolo* 
gical  writers  of  the  twelfth  century.   Leiand  passes  a  warm 

*  MS,  Cotton.  OthOf  C.  xvi.  Libertates  Eccleaie  S.  Job.  Bevarlae.  cum 
privikfiia  apostoUcifl  et  epiacopalibua,  quae  magister  Aluredai  sacrista  cjna. 
dem  eccLeais  de  Anglico  in  Latinum  transtnlit*  Prine.  Jhcuna  per 
ordinem,  • 


1150.]  OIBXBN  OF  OLOUeMTB».  159 

aulogium  on  his  style  And  learning,  which  is  not  altogether 
onmerited*  As  one  of  his  works  is  dedicated  to  Gilbert 
bishop  Qt  Hereford^  who  held  that  see  from  1149  to  il62y 
and  he  had  no  doubt  lived  in  the  society  of  that  prelate 
while  he  was  abbot  of  Oloucester,  from  which  office  he 
was  promoted  to  the  episcopacy,  Osbem  may  be  conr- 
sidered  as  haying  flourished  in  1150.  We  have  no  further 
information  relating  to  his  life* 

Osbem's  Latinity  is  good  for  the  age,  and  his  style, 
considering  the  subject,  is  easy  and  agreeable.  His  diar 
logues,  which  form  properly  one  work,  are  a  kind  of 
commentary  on  the  five  books  of  the  Pentateuch ;  his 
friend  Nicholas,  probably  a  monk  of  the  same  house,  is 
made  to  raise  objections  to  different  points  in  the  sacred 
text,  which  Osbern,  in  reply,  explains  and  defends*  The 
following  extract  from  the  dialogue  on  the  book  of  Genesis 
will  serve  to  show  the  nature  of  this  work : — 

NieoL  Sana  sunt  ista,  et  animo  mazime  imprimenda.  Sed  com  Bcriptam 
Bit»  Qui  yivit  in  Ktemnm  erevnt  omnia  mtmlf  qnare  Moyves  divisis  tempori- 
bus  afiserit  omnia  create  f  Plurimnm  ftiteor  diasonare  Tidetor,  cum  una 
Boriptora  simul  omnia,  alia  separatim  et  divise  testatur  create. 

OtbeimMt,  Rttdam  illam  et  infbrmem  reram  matftriam  simnl  Dent  eraavit, 
it «,  nt  eBMBt  qooddam  umverBitatig  pjrimordium  do  nihilo  conaistere  Cecity 
qu8B  n^c  a  Deo  adeo  Jnformis  fuit  ut  a  formoso  factpre  sine  forma  omnino  for- 
maretur ;  sed  iccirco  maxime  didtur  quasi  informiter  create,  vel  quia  nee  dnm 
hanc  IbrmoBam  in  qna  rerom  ordinatio  consiatit  reoepit  vaiiuBtatem»  vel  qui» 
in  ipsa  craationis  pennixtiooe  sic  foit  omnium  pariter  eia  eiientia,  nt  non^ 
dum  fades  singulorum  appareret  distincte.  Non  enim  in  iUa  creatione  iste 
hodie  iHa  in  erastino  pvius  quKdam,  qondam  prodierunt  poaterius ;  sed  ite 
potins  fimvl,  «C  iuiivwM>rum  in  u»a  permfxti4»nA  adaBcet  «ooereatio»  et  omnia 
in  his  per  substentiam  seminalem  condite  essent,  quae  in  sno  nondum 
ordine  distincte  apparebant.  Nee  mora  hanc  secute  est  aut  terditas,  quia 
•flicaz  animi  impariiim  qnam  celerem  protoUt  renun  effeotum,  quB  etiam 
a4eo  in  meU«B  profMit,  ut  qui  prioa  ex  pofasntia  divini  opificts  existenti» 
naturam  assumpsit,  protinns  ex  ejusdem  beneficio  formse  et  decoris  oma- 
tum  assumeret,  et  sic,  secundum  prophetem,  fecit  Dans  quiB  faete  sunt, 
cum  omnia  priaa  in  rerum  proceBserunt  creationem,  deiiide  sa  manilbstius 
ostenderunt  in  creationis  distinctionem. 

Osbem  also  wrote  a  commentary  on  the  book  of  Judges^ 


160  LAURENCE   OF   DURHAM.  [Died  1154. 

in  six  books^  dedicated  to  Gilbert  bishop  of  Hereford ; 
and  four  treatises  on  the  Incarnation^  Nativity,  Passion^ 
and  Resurrection^  of  Christy  which  appear  to  compose  one 
continued  work. 

All  the  works  above  mentioned  are  contained  in  one 
very  handsome  manuscript  on  vellum  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum^* which  Leland^  who  saw  it  at  Gloucester^  believed 
to  be  Osbem's  original  copy.  We  are  not  aware  that 
any  other  copy  of  Osbern's  writings  is  known  to  exist, 
and  none  of  them  have  been  printed.  Leland  mentions 
another  work  by  Osbern,  dedicated  to  the  abbot  Hamelin, 
and  entitled  Panormia^  which  Bale  attributes  to  Osbern  of 
Canterbury.  In  the  time  of  Leland  a  manuscript  of  this 
work  was  preserved  in  the  abbey  at  Gloucester^  but  it 
appears  to  be  now  lost. 


^ 


LAURENCE  OF  DURHAM. 

The  most  remarkable  writer  of  Latin  verse  during  the 
reign  of  Stephen  was  Laurence^  a  monk  of  Durham,  where 
he  first  held  the  office  of  precentor,  and  was  then  taken 
to  court  in  the  capacity  of  a  chaplain,  and  enjoyed  the 
favour  of  the  king.f  He  was  made  prior  of  Durham 
about  the  year  1149.  An  old  historian  of  the  see  of 
Durham  describes  him  as  ^^  a  man  of  great  discretion  and 
honest  conversation,  skilled  in  the  law,  endowed  with 
eloquence,  well  grounded  in  the  divine  institutes,  and  not 
needing  to  beg  counsel  of  others  in  adversity.^'J    This 

*  MS.  Reg.  6  D.  IX. 

f  See  the  Prologue  to  his  Hypognosticon,  and  Wharton,  Anglia  Sacra, 

vol.  i.  p.  787. 

X  Rogero  priori  successit  Laurentius,  vir  magnic  discretionis  et  honestse 
vonversationis,  in  jure  peritus^  cloquentio  pneditus,  divinis  institutis  suffi- 


Died  1154.]        laurbnge  of  Durham.  161 

writer  informs  us  that  Laurence  died  in  1154,  prior  of 
Durham;*  so  that  Leland  must  be  in  error,  when  he 
states  that  he  was  made  abbot  of  Westminster  by  Henry  I, 
We  learn  from  another  annalist  of  the  see  of  Durham 
that  Laurence,  having  in  1153  accompanied  Hugh  the 
elect  bishop  to  Rome,  was  attacked  by  sickness  in  his 
way  back  and  died  in  France,  and  that  his  body  was 
brought  to  Durham  to  be  buried.t 

The  most  important  work  of  Laurence  of  Durham 
is  a  scriptural  history  in  nine  books,  written  in  Latin 
elegiacs,  under  the  title  of  Hypognosticon.  In  the  first 
six  books  Laurence  versifies  the  principal  events  of  the 
Old  Testament,  sometimes  paraphrasing  the  language  of 
the  Bible,  and  at  others  adding  reflections,  moralisations, 
and  explanations  of  his  own.  Thus,  speaking  of  the 
children  of  Adam,  he  tells  us  that  the  sons  of  Seth  were 
diligent  inquirers  into  the  natures  of  things. 

Ceetera  posteritas  Seth  quid  facit?     Ilia  qaid,  inquam, 

Stirps  agit  hie,  cui  nil  preeter  honesta  placet  ? 
Cai  comes  est  virtUB,  cai  lex  natora  creatrix, 

Cui  dux  est  ratio,  cui  deos  ars  et  amor ; 
Cui  studium  causas  inquirere»  quail ter  iguem 

Temperat  ethereum  duplicis  algor  aquse  ; 
Quis  coeli  motus,  quibus  astra  recursibus  ipsi 

Obvia  dbcurrunt,  quidve  per  istud  agunt ; 
Ut  sol  nocte  diem  vel  mutat  lumine  noctem, 

Utque  calore  suo  res  animare  solet ; 
Quod  luQ»  sit  opus,  quis  splendor,  et  ejus  in  orbem 

Cornua  quid  ducat,  quidve  resolvat  item ; 
Quid  sit  et  unde  mat  nix,  grando,  fulmen,  et  imber ; 

Quse  Yis  Tentorum,  quisve  sit  ortus  eis; 
Quae  nature  feras,  yis  herbas,  commoda  fruges. 

Gratia  commendet  semina,  nosse  student. 


cienter  instructus,  nee  habens  opus  ab  aliis  mendicare  consilium  in  adTenis. 
Annals  of  Durham,  MS.  Cotton.  Claudius  D.  ly.  fol.  77,  t^. 

*  Anno  Domini  Millesimo  .cliiij.*^  post  mortem  Laurentii  creatus  est 
Absolon  in  priorem  Dunelmensem.  MS.  Cotton.  Claud.  D.  iv.  fol.  79,  v\ 

t  Wharton,  Anglia  Sacra,  loc.  cit. 

VOL.  II,  M 


163  LAURENCE   OF   DURHAM.  [DM  1164* 

Talibu  ecce  ftudent ;  ]api«  tamen  orU  tolupUs 
Et  male  vexat  eos,  et  probat  esse  reos. 

In  the  following  description  of  the  sobriety  of  ante- 
diluvian manners,  Laurence  seems  to  identify  the  world 
before  the  flood  with  the  golden  age  of  the  Grecian  poets: 

Hactenus  ant&qois  patribns  non  esus  in  nsu 

Gamis  erat,  nee  adhno  vina  bibebat  bomo. 
Vestis  ei  teitura  rndis,  domiis  antrai  cibasque 

Panis,  fons  potus,  res  pecos,  anna  manus. 
Cultior  esca  tamen  tunc  crada  legumina,  glandes, 

Poma,  mel,  et  potus  lac  pretiosus  «rat. 
Ipsiufl  In  domibas  paries,  fimdamina,  tectum» 

Virga  sequazy  solidus  cespes,  anindo  rudis. 
Tunc  illi  vires  sine  marte  taert  ▼iriles, 

Et  sine  flagitio  vita  qnieta  fuit. 
Ut  tamen  in  venerem  prorsus  rniti  irruit  unda, 

Perdens  saeva  pares  crimine  morte  pari. 

After  relating  Solomon^s  lapse  to  idolatry,  Laurence 
runs  into  a  long  dissertation  on  the  power  and  effects  of 
love,  and  similar  digressions  arise  from  other  subjects. 
The  seventh  book  is  devoted  to  the  praise  of  the  Virgin 
Mary ;  the  eighth  tells  briefly  the  principal  events  of  the 
gospel  history;  and  the  ninth  is  chiefly  occupied  with 
the  enumeration  of  saints  and  martyrs,  among  whom  St. 
Cuthbert,  the  patron  of  Durham^  holds  a  prominent  place. 
It  appears  that  this  poem  was  commenced  at  Durham, 
when  its  author  was  precentor,  and  that  he  had  only 
reached  the  end  of  the  first  book  when  he  was  called  to 
court.  He  still,  however,  persisted  in  his  favourite  studies, 
and  in  the  opening  lines  of  the  second  book  he  describes 
and  laments  the  change  in  his  position. 

Hactenus  ipse  meus  musis  studiosus  adhaesi, 

£t  lusi  yario  carmina  ssepe  stilo ; 
Lusit  et  exactum  calamo  spatiante  libellum 

Mens  mea  more  pari  cietera  posse  putans. 
Jam  vero  quid  agam  ?  raptum  slbi  curia  onris 

Implicate  et  sibi  dans  me  mihi  tolUt  atroz. 


Died  1154,]       laurencb  of  Durham.  163 

Pondera  pro  meCris  meditarier  urgeor,  «ra 

SepiuB  in  manibiu  qnam  bona  scripta  fereni. 
Ssepias  inTigUo  quot  mille  talenta  minntlB 

Constent,  qnam  pedibu  quot  mihi  Tersns  eat* 
Si  tamen  interdum  P6gaaea  via  recta  tubopto» 

Ant  montam  capitum  tempto  tenere  daum, 
Has  mea  meni  et  eas  admitfeere  nescia  curas 

Insimal,  hinc  alias  moz  rerocata  Tenit ; 
£t  yelut  apprensa  polehra  spado  virgine,  triste 

Sospiimt,  tristis  pectora,  sic  et  ego. 
Ant  vice  me  pueri  plorando  yindico,  coeptnm 

Nam  tamen  hoc  calamus  noster  omittet  opus  ? 
Non  ita.    Namqne  licet  nequeam  quicquid  toIo,  saltern 

Hoc  Yolo  quod  possum ,  dictaque  prodet  opus. 
Et  sic  pro  claustro  mihi  curia,  proque  Dunelmo 

Angtia,  pro  requie  sepe  tumultus  erit. 

And  again  at  the  beginning  of  the  ninth  book,  when 
declaiming  against  the  vice  of  idleness,  he  draws  the  fol- 
lowing comparison  between  his  own  tastes  and  occupa- 
tions and  the  pursuits  of  the  courtiers  amidst  whom  he 
lived. 

Qsec  ego  dam  recoloi  pro  viribus  otia  vito, 

Tito  quod  fnvitat  prorans  ad  omne  malum. 
Et  quid  ago  ?  non  arma  fero,  non  moenia  pono» 

Ad  lucre  non  sudo,  semina  nulla  sero. 
Sed  mlsns  et  carmen  amo  ;  neque  curia  caram 

Hanc  in  Pieridum  tollere  nostra  potest. 
Feryeat  ecce  licet  levis  alea,  tessera  certet, 

Turgeat  acer  eques,  verba  superba  volent ; 
Et  seri  licet  inde  senes  sua  seria  tractent, 

Hinc  instet  yariis  leta  juventa  jocis. 
In  strepitu  studio  plerumque  vacare  laborOi 

Hinc  quasi  non  videam  stulta  videre  queo. 
Hinc  licet  ad  nostras  sermo  strepat  impius  aures, 

Sepe  licet  tangat  non  tamen  intrat  eas. 
Pierides  mihi  sunt  equitesi  sed  et  alea  nobis 

Nostra  Thalia,  stilus  tessera  grata  mihi. 
Accipiter  mihi  s«pe  liber,  versum  vice  nisi 

Tracto,  pro  canibus  carmina  sKpe  sequor ; 
Pro  phalen  pluteum,  calamum  jaculi  vice  porto, 

Arena  et  arma  meus  dam  Tacat  est  calamus. 
Qui  licet  exhibeat  neque  fulmina  Quintiliani, 

Nee  iluvios  PlauU,  seu  Ciceronis  opes, 

m2 


Ifi-i  LAURENCE   OP   DURHAM.  [Ofcrf  1154. 

Et  lioet  huDc  superet  brevitate  Salustius  apta, 

Eanius  ingenio,  pondere  Varro  suoi 
Sic  tamen  interdum  brevis  esse  laborat,  ut  idem 

Non  nimis  obscurus  sit  brevitate  sua ; 
Ne  nimis  enervis  sectetur  leviay  captans 

Grandia,  ne  nimium  turgeat  nsque  studet. 
Utqne  frequenter  eo  procul  otia  peilo,  repello 

Tsedia,  sic  etiam  crimina  pello  simul. 
Et  si  non  aliis,  mihi  sic  mea  carmina  prosnnt ; 

£t  quia  sic  prosunt,  me  quoque  jure  juvant. 

These  extracts  will  be  sufficient  to  show  that  Laurence 
wrote  Latin  verse  with  considerable  elegance  and  facility, 
for  the  time  at  which  he  lived.  There  are  two  good 
manuscripts  of  the  Hypognosticon  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum^* and  it  is  found  in  other  libraries. 

Next  to  the  Hypognosticon,  the  most  important  work 
of  Laurence  of  Durham  is  a  Consolation  on  the  death  of 
a  friend  (Consolatio  pro  morte  amid),  consisting  of  a  dia- 
logue in  prose  intermixed  with  short  poems  in  various 
metres.  It  is,  in  fact,  an  imitation  of  the  work  of  Boe- 
thius  De  Consolatione  Fhilosophia.  The  versification  in 
this  work  is  more  pleasing  than  that  of  the  Hypognosti- 
con, because  the  writer  appears  less  fettered  by  his  sub- 
ject.  The  following  lines  may  serve  as  a  specimen : 

Optantem  vetitis  currere  curribus, 
Inferrique  locis  exitialibus, 
Phaetontem  temeris  nititur  ausibus 

Absterrere  suus  pater. 
Sed  flecti  refugit  mens  temeraria, 
Ignavumqne  putat  coepta  relinquere, 
Nee  voti  cupidus  quam  gravis  exitus 

Ipsum  subsequitur  videt. 

*  MS.  Cotton.  Vespas.  D.  xi.  and  MS.  Reg.  4  A.  vi.  One  of  the  early 
transcribers  of  this  poem,  named  GalienuSi  composed  some  rhyming  verses 
forming  a  brief  table  of  contents  of  the  nine  books,  and  givfes  the  following 
account  of  their  author  (MS.  Cotton.  Claudius  D.  iv.  fol.  77,  v°.) — 

Utque  palam  pateat  quis  sit  Laurentius  iste, 

Initium  breviter  tanti  reserabo  sophistse ; 

Hoc  sacra  Dunelmi  domus  est  decorata  priore, 

Hujus  adomatur  studio  studiique  labore. 


Died  1154.']        laurencb  of  Durham.  165 

Foeliz  si  vel  eos  ipse  relinqaeret 
Dissoasos,  yel  iter  carperet  a  patre 
Ostensum,  sed  et  h«c  iUaque  devoTenSi 

Luctus  causa  patri  pent. 
O  quos  alterins  yisa  pericula, 
Aat  audita,  docent  nolle  nocentia, 
Dignos  laude  pato  :  tu  quoque  laudibas 

Dignus  si  sapias  eris. 

This  work  precedes  the  Hypognosticon  in  the  Cottonian 
manuscript^  at  the  end  of  which  are  several  short  pieces 
resembling  rhetorical  exercises  in  prose^  entitled,  Oratio 
Laurentii  pro  Laurentio,  Oratio  Laureniii  pro  naufroffia, 
Oratio  Laureniii  pro  juvenibua  compeditisy  Invectio  Laur 
rentii  in  Malgerum,  Oratio  Laurentii  pro  Milone.  The 
Annals  of  Durham  above  quoted  recite  the  titles  of  all  the 
preceding  works  of  Laurence  of  Durham,  and  add  to  them 
a  Rythm  on  Christ  and  his  disciples  (Rythmus  /actus  de 
Christo  et  disciptdis  suisj,  and  a  poem  on  the  city  and 
bishopric  of  Durham,  by  way  of  dialogue  between  Lau- 
rence and  Peter.*  He  wrote  also  in  prose  a  life  of  St. 
Bridget,  dedicated  to  Ethelred,  one  of  the  officers  of  the 
king's  household  {dispensator  domus  regiai)^  and  therefore 
probably  while  he  was  residing  at  court.  This  is  the  only 
work  of  Laurence  of  Durham  which  has  been  printed. 
Bale,  Leland,  and  Leyser,  ascribe  to  him  other  works, 
some  of  which  are  merely  titles  made  out  of  the  ninth  book 
of  the  Hypognosticon,  and  some  the  works  of  another 
writer  of  the  same  name.f 

*  Scripsit  etiam  metrice  de  civitate  et  episcopatu  Dunelmi  per  modum 
dialogi  inter  Laarentium  et  Petmm.   MS.  Cotton.  Claud.  D.  iy.  fol.  77»  ^» 

f  In  the  catalogue  of  the  books  of  Durham  in  the  twelfth  century,  among 
those  printed  by  the  Surtees  Society,  p.  8,  we  find  a  list  of  the  Libri  Lau» 
rentii  pHori»,  from  which  it  would  appear  that  his  private  library  was  not 
very  eztensiTe,  as  it  is  there  made  to  consist  only  of  seven  books,  four  of 
which  are  glosses  on  the  Psalter,  the  Epistles  of  St  Paul,  and  Isaiah,  and  the 
other  three  the  Sermons  of  Bernard  of  Clairvaujc,  a  book  entitled  Venariwp 
and  Tullius  de  Amicitia* 


166  CARADOO  OF  LANCARVAN.     [Died  about  IIB4. 

Edition. 

Acta  Sanctorum  Februarii.  Tomua  I.  Antrerpia,  1658,  fol.  pp.  172-166. 
Vita  S.  Brigid»  Virg.  auctore  lAvrentio  DHiietneiiti,  ex  MS.  Salman- 
ticenai. 


CARADOC  OP  LANCARVAN, 

This  writer  was  a  contemporary  of  Geoffirey  of  Mon* 
mouth,  from  whom  we  learn  that  he  was  occupied  in  com* 
piling  a  history  of  the  Welsh  princes  from  the  death  of  Cad* 
wallader  to  the  middle  of  the  twelfth  century.*  This  work, 
which  there  can  be  no  doubt  was  written  in  Latin,  appears 
to  be  now  lost ;  except  in  a  pretended  Welsh  version, 
which  has  again  been  translated  into  English,  and  printed 
with  a  continuation.  How  far  this  translation  is  a  faithful 
representative  of  Caradoc's  history,  we  cannot  determine 
without  the  original  text.  Pits  states  that  in  his  time 
there  was  a  copy  of  the  original  in  the  library  of  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Cambridge. 

Caradoc  also  wrote  a  short  life  of  Gildas,  which  is 
extant.  This  tract  appears  to  be  a  mere  legend.  The 
modem  editor  supposes  that  it  was  wrongly  ascribed  to 
Caradoc;  but  we  have  given  reasons  for  believing  the  con* 
trary  in  the  first  volume  of  the  present  work.f  Bale 
states  further  that  Caradoc  wrote  commentaries  on  Merlin, 
and  a  book  De  situ  orbis.  Caradoc's  history  is  said  to  have 
been  brought  down  to  the  year  1154,  about  which  time  he 
is  generally  supposed  to  have  died, 

*  Regea  autem  illorum  qui  ab  iUo  tempore  in  Gnaliia  auceeiaenuit  Karadoeo 
Lancarranensi  contemporaneo  meo  in  materia  scribendi  pemitto.  Geoifrer 
of  Monmouth,  Hist.  Briton,  cap.  ult. 

t  See  vol.  i.  Anglo- Saxon  period,  p.  119,  note. 


Ji^4  qfter  llii.]      BBNRY   OP  HUNTINGDON*  167 

BditUm, 

QikUui  de  £xcidio  Brltanniae.  recens.  Joi.  SteTenson.  Lond.  1838.  870.  pp. 
JXf-r-yaXi,  Y\tk  8.  GUd»,  a«etore  (at  fertiur)  Caiadoce  LanoairmBenii. 

Traiulaiiatu, 

TUq  hiatorie  of  CambrUi  now  palled  Wales :  a  part  of  the  «aoat  famous 
Yland  of  Brytaine,  written  in  the  Brytiah  language  aboue  two  hundreth 
yearea  paat:  tranalated  into  English  by  H.  Lhoyd,  Gentleman :  Correctedi 
aqfrneoted,  and  continued  out  of  Records  and  beat  approoned  Antkora» 
by  Danid  Powel,  Doctor  in  divinitie.  4to,  LondoUf  1584. 

The  History  of  Wales :  comprehending  the  Lives  and  Succeasion  of  the 
Princes  of  Walea.  from  Cadwalader  the  last  King,  to  Lhewelyn  the  last 
Prinoe,  of  Britiah  Blood,  With  a  short  Aeeoupt  of  the  Affaira  of 
Walea,  under  the  Kinga  of  England.  Written  originally  in  Britiah,  by 
Caradoc  of  Lhancarran;  and  formerly  published  in  English  by  Dr. 
Pttwel.  Now  newly  augmentod  and  improved  by  W.  Wynne,  A.M.  Lon- 
don, 1697.  8vo. 

Another  edition,  or  a  reprint  of  thia  edition,  waa  published  in  1709,  8vo. 

The  History  of  Walea,  written  originally  in  Britiah,  by  Caradoc  of  Lhan- 
carvan»  Bnglished  by  Dr.  PoweU,  and  augmented  by  W.  Wynne,  .  .  . 
to  which  ia  added,  A  De&cription  of  Walea,  by  Sir  John  Price,  A  new 
edition,  greatly  improved  and  enlarged.     London,  1774.  8vo. 

The  History  of  Walea.  Written  originally  in  British  by  Caradoc  of  Llan- 
fWFvaii;  tranalated  into  Engliah  by  Dr.  Powell;  augmented  by  W. 
Wynne ;  reviaed  and  corrected,  and  a  collection  of  Topographical  Noticea 
attached  thereto,  by  Richard  Llwyd,  gent,  of  Llannerch-Brockwel,  in 
tiie  county  of  Montgomery.    Shrewabury,  183S.  8vo. 


HENRY  OF  HUNTINGDON. 

Henry  of  Huntingdon  is  another  distinguished  writer 
whose  personal  history  is  only  known  from  a  few  scattered 
allusions  in  his  own  works.*  He  informs  us  that  his  father, 
who,  like  the  father  of  Ordericus  Vitalis,  was,  a  married 
priest  or  clerk,  was  named  Nicholas  ;t  and  that  at  a  very 

*  Bven  John  Capgrare,  in  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century,  who  Intro* 
duoea  Henry  of  Huntingdon  into  hia  book  De  illuatribua  Henricia,  could 
find  no  other  information  relating  to  him. 

t  I  have  only  the  authority  of  LeUnd  for  the  name,  and  of  Cave  for  the 


168  HBNRY  OP  HUNTINGDON.     [Died  after  ll64. 

early  age  he  was  introduced  into  the  household  of  Robert, 
bishop  of  Lincoln,*  where  he  was  educated  in  company 
with  the  sons  of  princes  and  nobles,  and  that  to  his  firiend- 
fihip  and  protection  he  owed  all  his  advancement  in  life. 
Robert  Bloet  was  bishop  of  Lincoln  during  thirty  years, 
from  1092  to  1122.  Henry  appears  to  have  been  ap- 
pointed archdeacon  of  Huntingdon  and  Hertfordshire 
shortly  before  the  death  of  that  prelate.f  The  date  of  his 
death  is  not  known,  but  it  probably  occurred  soon  after 
1154. 

Henry,  who  takes  the  name  by  which  he  is  commonly 
known  from  his  archdeaconry,  appears  to  have  been  early 
connected  with  th^  abbey  of  Ramsey,  two  of  the  abbots 
of  which,  Alduin  and  Reginald,  he  names  as  his  literary 
friends  and  preceptors,  and  he  honours  with  the  same 
title  Albinus  canon  of  Lincoln,  j:  Another  of  his  most  inti- 
mate friends  was  named  Walter,  whom  Leland  supposed 
to  have  been  Walter  abbot  of  Ramsey,  though,  according 
to  others,  he  was  Walter  Calenius,  archdeacon  of  Oxford, 
which  last  opinion  appears  to  be  countenanced  in  some 
degree  by  the  epithet  of  consors  which  he  applies  to  him.§ 
It  was  to  this  person,  as  he  himself  states,  that  he  ad- 
dressed  his   poetical    writings,   the   work   of  his  youth. 

circnmstance  of  his  being  a  married  priest,  but  I  suppose  they  took  their 
informatioD  from  the  inedited  portion  of  his  works. 

*  Cum  puerulus,  cum  adoletcens,  cum  juvenis,  Roberti  pnesulis  nostri 
gloriam  conspicerem.  Epist.  ad  Walterum,  ap.  Wharton,  Angl.  Sac.  vol.  ii. 
p.  694. 

t  lb.  p.  696. 

X  Leland,  de  Scrip.  Brit.  vol.  i.  p.  197,  from  the  eighth  (inedited)  book 
of  Henry's  work. 

§  In  the  letter  addressed  to  Walter  he  speaks  of  Walter  Calenius  in  the 
third  person,  yet  in  the  manner  he  might  be  expected  to  speak  of  a  friend. 
Ozenfordic  quidem  prseposuit  Alfredum,  cui  successit  Walterus  superlative 
rethoricus.  Epist.  ad  Walter,  ap.  Wharton,  p.  696.  Leyser,  Hist.  Poet. 
Med.  8vo.  p.  427,  calls  him  Walter  bishop  of  Winchester,  which  is  an  evi- 
dent mistake. 


Died  a/ier  1154,^     henry  op  Huntingdon.  169 

Henry  of  Huntingdon's  poetry  is  superior  to  the  general 
standard  of  medieval  Latin  verse.  It  is  somewhat  mis- 
cellaneous^ consisting  of  metrical  treatises  on  herbs,  gems, 
spices,  &c.  of  hymns,  of  amatory  poetry,  and  of  epigrams. 
Leland  quotes  the  following  elegant  lines  from  the  invo- 
cation to  his  poem  on  herbs,  which  is  founded  on  the 
older  treatise  of  Macer : — 

Vatum  mag^e  parensi  herbanim  Phoebe  repertor, 
Vosque,  quibus  resonant  Tempe  jocosa,  deie, 

Si  mihi  serta  prins  hedera  florente  parastis, 
Ecce  meos  flores,  serta  paratCi  fero. 

There  is  a  copy  of  his  epigrams  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum ;*  they  are  written  in  diflferent  metres,  and  some  of 
them  are  in  rhyme.  Martial  appears  to  have  been  his 
model.     In  the  following  he  attacks  a  slanderous  critic, — 

De  Zoilo, 

Hominis  esse  yelim  pr«clari|  Zoilus  inquiti 

Et  famB  ingentis,  yincnla  ferte,  furit. 
Hec  mensura  tuie  est  elatio  certa  niinsBi 

Ex  libra  quantum  celsus  es,  imus  eris. 
Die  ubi  prseteriti  sunt  plausus,  laus,  honor,  anni  ? 

Poene  causa  peris,  poena  perennis  erit. 

In  the  foUowing  epigram  he  speaks  of  lore  in  very 
gingUng  rhimes : 

De  Amore, 

Qui  teneromm  vulnus  amorum  non  rereretur, 
Innumerorum  tela  dolorum  perpetuetnr. 

The  next  is  addressed  to  himself : — 

In  aeipsum. 

Sunt,  yates  Henrice,  tibi  versus  bene  culti, 
£t  bene  culta  domus,  et  bene  cultns  ager. 


•  MS.  Reg.  13  C.  II. 


170  HBNBY   OF   HUNTINGDON.      [Dtedf  «//a*  11S4. 

£t  bene  sunt  thalami,  bene  sunt  pomeria  eulta^ 

Hortus  centimodis  cnltibuB  ecce  nitet. 
O  jam  oulta  tibi  bene  lunti  led  tu  male  oultvt ) 

Se  quiconque  caret,  die  mkd,  die,  quid  habet  ? 

These  playful  productions  were  the  amusement  of  his 
youth.  In  his  maturer  years  he  applied  himself  to  more 
serious  subjects.  In  1135,*  he  wrote  a  book  entitled  De 
Summitatibus  Rerum,  in  the  beginning  of  which  he  treats 
on  the  subject  which  then  engrossed  the  attention  of  the 
western  church,  the  end  of  the  world,  which  was  believed 
to  be  near  at  hand.  At  a  later  period  he  was  urged  by 
Alexander  bishop  of  Lincoln,  whose  friendship  he  enjoyed, 
to  write  a  history  of  England,  compiled  from  different 
writers,  commencing  with  Bede.  This  he  completed  in 
seven  books,  ending  with  the  death  of  Henry  I.  But  he 
subsequently  wrote  a  continuation,  in  one  book,  embracing 
the  reign  of  Stephen,  and  ending  with  the  year  1154. 
One  of  his  last  writings  was  probably  the  letter  already 
alluded  to,  addressed  to  his  friend  Walter,  De  Mundi  Con- 
temptu;  in  it  he  recounts  to  his  friend  the  number  of 
rich,  and  powerful,  and  learned  men  whom  they  b^id  seen 
sink  successively  into  the  grave.  As  he  mentions  William 
archbishop  of  York,  then  alive,  as  being  the  successor  of 
archbishop  Henry,  this  letter  must  have  been  wiitten 
between  October  1153,  when  Henry  died,  and  June  1154, 
when  William  was  poisoned.  At  the  commencement  he 
speaks  of  himself  and  his  friend  as  being  both  far  advanced 
in  age,  and  near  their  time  of  quitting  the  vanities  of  this 
world,  and  at  the  conclusion  of  the  epistle  he  states  that 
he  had  already  received  the  news  of  Walter's  death,  and 
that  the  conclusion  of  his  letter  must  be  an  epitaph.t     If 

*  Hie  est  annus  qui  comprehendit  scriptorem,  annus  scilicet  zzxt.  regni 
gloriosi  et  inyictissimi  regis  Henrici,  annus  Ixiz.  ab  adventu  Normannorum* 
t  Epist.  ad  Walternnii  p.  701. 


Died  after  IIB4.]    rsnry  of  Huntingdon.  171 

the  Walter  thus  spoken  of  be  Walter  Calenius^  we  are  by 
this  letter  enabled  to  fix  the  period  of  his  death. 

The  last  literary  labour  of  Henry's  old  age  appears  to  have 
been  to  ooUect  together  aU  his  writings,  and  arrange  them 
into  one  series,  whioh  he  divided  into  twelve  books.  There 
are  two  manuscripts  of  this  book  in  the  archiepiscopal 
library  at  Lambeth.  The  first  seven  books  contain  the 
English  History  to  the  death  of  Henry  L  The  eighth 
book  contains  the  history  of  the  reign  of  Stephen ;  in 
some  manuscripts  this  is  transposed,  and  forms  the  tenth 
book.  The  ninth  book  begins  with  the  tract  De  Summiia^ 
tibue  Rerumy  which  forms  the  prologue,  and  is  followed  by 
a  lett^  to  king  Henry  containing  chronological  taUes  of 
the  kings  and  emperors  of  the  Jews,  Assyrians,  Persians, 
Maeedonians,  and  Romans ;  a  letter  to  Warin  the  Breton 
on  the  series  of  British  kings  given  by  Geoffirey  of  Mon- 
moutbj  which  he  had  omitted  in  his  history,  and  which 
he  now  took  from  a  copy  of  Geoffrey's  book  which  he 
found  at  Bee  f^  and  the  letter  to  Walter,  De  Contempiu 
Mutuky  before  mentioned.  The  tenth  book,  De  Sanctie 
AngluB  et  de  MiracuHe  eorum,  he  compiled  from  Bede  and 
some  other  writers.  The  eleventh  book  contains  the 
epigrams ;  and  the  twelfth  his  other  metrical  pieces.  It 
has  been  observed  by  Wharton  that  Bale  and  Pitsius 
have  made  more  than  twenty  titles  of  books  out  of  this 
work,  giving  sometimes  even  the  title  of  an  epigram  as  that 
of  a  separate  book. 

A  large  portion  of  the  earliest  part  of  -Henry^s  History 
is  compiled  and  translated  from  the  Saxon  chronicle ;  he 
even  translates  the  metrical  parts,  and  in  some  instances 

*  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  had  reflected  upon  Henry  of  Huntingdon  for  his 
knowing  nothing  of  the  British  kingi,  in  the  conelnsion  of  his  Historia 
Britonnm.  See  the  note  to  p.  137,  of  the  present  Tolume.  The  first  seven 
books  of  Henry's  history  were  therefore  published  before  the  appearance  of 
that  of  Gaoifray  of  Monmouth. 


172  HENRY  OF  HUNTINGDON.     [Died  after  1154. 

incorrectly,  which  shows  that  so  early  as  the  reign  of  Ste- 
phen the  language  of  Anglo-Saxon  poetry  was  becoming 
obsolete.  He  gives  us  some  valuable  notices  of  Anglo- 
Saxon  history,  which  appear  to  be  taken  from  old  songs, 
and  from  tradition.  Lappenberg  has  justly  remarked 
that  he  differs  in  one  respect  from  all  the  other  monkish 
historians,  who  set  no  bounds  to  their  zeal  in  raising  the 
character  of  Dunstan,  while  Henry  of  Huntingdon  bestows 
remarkable  praise  on  king  Eadwy.  This  perhaps  may  be 
attributed  to  his  love  of  the  popular  songs  of  his  country. 
He  frequently  quotes  from  Latin  historical  poets  who  are 
no  longer  extant,  and  sometimes  inserts  verses  of  his  own. 
In  the  history  of  the  Anglo-Norman  period  he  tells  us 
that  he  wrote  down  what  he  had  heard  from  those  who 
were  witnesses  or  who  had  the  means  of  learning  the  truth, 
or  what  he  had  seen  himself,  and  this  part  of  his  history 
is  valuable  for  its  originality.  His  dates  are  frequently 
confused.  As  a  specimen  of  Henry's  style  we  give  his 
account  of  the  events  of  the  ninth  year  of  the  reign  of 
Stephen,  which  we  are  led  to  select  because  it  is  a  passage 
in  which  he  speaks  from  his  own  observation. 

Nono  rex  Stephanns  anno  Lincoliam  obsedit,  ubi  cum  mnnitioDem  contra 
oastellam,  quod  yi  obtinebat  consul  Cestrensis,  conatrueret,  operatores  sui 
ab  hostibus  prsefocati  sunt  fere  octoginta.  Re  igitur  imperfecta  rex  confusus 
abscessit.  Anno  autem  ipso  consul  Gaufridus  de  Magnavilla  regem  Talidis- 
sime  vexavit,  et  in  omnibus  valde  gloriosus  effnlsit.  Mense  autem  Augusti 
miraculum  justitia  sua  dignum  Dei  splendor  exhibuit.  Duos  namque  qui 
monachia  ayulsis  ecclesias  Dei  converterant  in  castella  similiter  peccantes 
simili  poena  mulctavit.  Robertus  namque  Marmiun,  vir  bellicosus,  hoc  in 
ecclesia  de  Coyentre  penrersus  exegerat.  Porro  Gaufridus  de  MagnariUa 
(ut  diximus)  in  ecclesia  Ramesiensi  scelus  idem  patraverat.  Insurgens 
igitur  Robertus  Marmiun  in  hostes  inter  iogentes  suorum  cuneos  coram  ipso 
monasterio  solus  interfectus  est,  et  excommunicatus  morte  depascitur  teterna. 
Similiter  Gaufridus  consul  inter  acies  suorum  confertas,  a  quodam  yilissimo 
pedite  solus  sagitta  percussus  est,  et  ipse  valnus  ridensi  post  dies  tamen  ex 
ipso  Tulnere  excommunicatus  occubuit.  Ecce  Dei  laudabilis  omnibus  seculis 
prndicanda  ejusdem  sceleris  eadem  vindicta.  Dum  autem  ecclesia  ilia  pro 
castello  teneretor,  ebuUivit  sanguis  e  parietibus  ecclesite  et  claustri  adjacentis, 


Died  after  1154:.]    william  de  conches,  17S 

indignationem  divinam  manifestansy  Bceleratoram  exterminationem  denun- 
cians.  Quod  multi  qaidem,  et  ego  ipse  oculie  meis  inspezi.  Quia  igitur 
improbi  dicebant  Deum  dormire,  excitatus  est  Deus,  et  in  hoc  signo  et  in 
significato.  Eodem  quippe  anno  et  Ernulfus  fiUus  consuIiSi  qui  post  mortem 
patris  ecclesiam  incastellatam  retinebat,  captus  est,  et  per  hoc  ezulatus ; 
et  prinoeps  militum  suorum  in  hospitio  suo  ab  equo  corruens  effnso  cerebro 
expiravit.  Princeps  autem  peditum  suoram,  Reimeras  nomine,  cujus  officinm 
fuerat  ecdesias  frangere  vel  incendere,  dum  mare  cum  uxore  sua  transiret 
(nt  multi  perhibuerunt)  navis  immobilis  facta  est.  Quod  monstrum  nautis 
stupentibus,  sorte  data  reicausam  inquirentibus,  sors  cecidit  super  Reimerum; 
quod  cum  ille  nimirum  totis  contradiceret  nisibus,  secundo  et  tertio  sors 
jactata  in  eum  devenit.  Positus  igitur  in  scapha  est,  et  uxor  ejus  et  pecunia 
scelastissime  acquisita,  et  statim  navis  cursu  velocissimo  ut  prius  fecerat 
peUgus  sulcat,  scapha  vero  cum  nequissimis  subita  Toragine  circumducta 
in  sternum  absorpta  est.  Eodem  anno,  Celestino  papa  defuncto,  Lucius 
substituitur. 


Bdiiiotu. 

Rerum  Anglicarum  Scriptores  post  Bedam  preecipui.  Edited  by  Henry 
Savile.  Loud.  15.96.  fol.  Francofurti,  1601,  fol.  pp.  295—399.  Henrici 
archidiaconi  Huntindoniensis  Historiarum  libri  octo. 

Anglia  Sacra  (Edited  by  H.  Wharton)  pars  secunda.  Lond.  1691.  fol.  pp. 
694— -702.  Henrici  archidiaconi  Huntingdoniensis  epistola  ad  Wal- 
terum  de  Mundi  Contemptu,  sive  de  episcopis  et  viris  illastribus  sui 
temporis. 

Lucas  d*Achery,  Spicilegium,  sive  collectio  veterum  aliquot  Scriptorum  qui 
in  Gallie  Bibliothecis  delituerant,  Tomus  III.  Parisiis,  1723,  fol.  pp. 
503<^507.  Henrici  Huntindonensis  archidiaconi  Lincolnensis  exemplar 
tertiee  epistolse  de  contemptu  muDdi  per  ea  qu»  ipsi  vidimus  hoc  est. 
In  the  first  edition  it  was  printed  in  tom.  viii.  p.  178. 

Collection  of  Historians  edited  by  order  of  the  Record  Commission,  vol.  i. 
pp.  689—763,  Henrici  archidiaconi  Huntindunensis  Historis  Aoglorum, 
libri  octo,  ab  anno  scilicet  A.C.  lx.  adusque  A.D.  m.c.liy.  Books 
1,  2,  4,  5,  and  6. 


WILLIAM  DE  CONCHES. 

This  writer's  claims  to  a  place  in  our  volume  are  very 
slight.     He  is  said  to'^have  been  born  at  the  little  town  of 


174  WILLIAM   DB   CONCHES.  [BOfil  lOfiO. 

Conches  in  Normandy,  about  the  year  1080  *  It  is  cer- 
tain that  he  was  a  native  of  Normandy,  and  that  he  taught 
with  considerable  success  at  Pbris,  but  there  appears  no 
authority  beyond  Tanner  and  Bale  for  stating  that  he 
studied  in  England,  Among  his  disciples  were  the  cele- 
brated John  of  SaUsbury,  who  must  have  attended  his 
school  subsequently  to  1136,  and  Henry  count  of  Anjou, 
afterwards  Henry  IL  of  England,  who  can  hardly  have 
been  his  scholar  before  1144.  It  appears  from  Alberic 
des  Troisfontaines  that  he  was  still  alive  in  1154. 

William  de  Conches  appears  to  have  been  chiefly  cele- 
brated as  a  grammarian,  for  John  of  Salisbury,  his  dis- 
ciple, mentions  him  more  than  once  with  the  title  of  gram" 
maticus  ;\  yet  nearly  aU  his  works  relate  to  natural  philoso- 
phy! The  writer  just  quoted  informs  us  that  William 
was  a  great  opponent  of  the  Cornificiens,  a  sect  of  his 
time  who  decried  the  use  of  method  in  treating  of  philo- 
sophy. His  most  popular  work  was  written  in  the  form 
of  a  dialogue  between  himself  and  his  princely  scholar 
count  Henry,  to  whom  it  is  dedicated  in  a  short  preface* 
Many  copies  of  this  tract,  which  generally  bears  the 
simple  title  of  Phihsophia,  are  preserved.^  In  the  preface 
the  author  complains  of  the  degraded  state  of  the  schools 
and  of  the  church,  and  of  the  double  neglect  of  learning 
and  justice. 

Quod  igitur  omnes  fere  contemporanei  nostri  sine  his  duobut  officium 
docendi  aggrediuntur,  causa  est  quare  minus  sibi  credatur.  Discipuli  etiam 
culpa  non  carent,  qui  relicta  Pitagoricse  doctrinse  formai  qua  constitutum 
erat  discipulum  yij.  annis  audireet  credere,  octavo  demum  anno  interrogare, 
ex  quo  scholas  intrant  antequam  sedeant  interrogant,  imOt  quod  deterius 


*  Hist.  Lit.  de  France,  vol.  xii»  p.  455.  The  English  bibliographers  have 
very  erroneously  considered  his  name  as  a  Latin  translation  of  Shelley, 

t  John  of  Salisbury  speaks  of  him  in  the  Metalog.  lib.  i.  c.  5,  lib.  ii. 
c.  10,  and  lib.  iii.  o.  10. 

t  A  good  copy  of  it  will  be  found  in  the  British  Museum,  MS.  Arundel, 
No.  377r  fol.  104. 


Djetf  «^er  1154.]    williah  dx  conohes.  175 

att,  jadiomt ;  iini«s  Tero  anni  fpacio  neg^geater  stndetitet,  totam  sapientiam 
sibi  ceBsisse  putantes,  arreptis  ab  ea  pannicoliB,  Teato  gamditatia  et  saperbise 
pleni,  poftdere  remm  Taooi  abeunt,  et  cum  a  eoia  parentibiu  et  ab  aliis 
andiantur,  in  Tirbia  eonmi  parum  aut  nUiil  utUitatia  perpenditnr)  atatimque 
quod  a  magistris  acceperint  hoc  solum  creditar,  «nde  magiatri  auctoritaa 
ttinuitiir.  Prfelati  etlam  aed  maxima  epiaoopi  non  aimt  extra  cttlpam,  qui 
quae  sua  sunt  boa  qutt  Jhetu  Christi  quttrentea,  ut  sine  omni  conditions 
bona  ecclesiaram  detrahunt,  sapientes  et  nobiles  ab  ecclesiis  suis  ezcludunt, 
et,  ne  locus  vacuus  remaneat,  insipientes  ignobiles  umbras  clericorum  non 
clericos  includunt.  Inde  fit  ut  qui  in  scientia  si  studerent  proficere  possent, 
intelligentes  se  nihil  inde  aliud  quam  odium  et  invidiam  adquirere,  episcopos 
divitem  archam  non  divitem  aoimnm  qusrere»  diversum  iter  vits  ingredi- 
entes,  Incris  et  qusestibus  inhiant. 

He  proceeds  to  state  that  he  places  his  hopes  of  re- 
formation in  Henry  and  his  children.  One  of  the  earliest 
works  of  William  de  Conches  appears  to  have  been  his 
treatise  De  dementis  philosophice^  in  four  books^  which  was 
inserted  by  mistake  among  the  works  of  Bede  in  the  old 
printed  editions.  In  this  book  he  begins  with  the  creation 
of  the  Universe,  and  treats  nearly  the  whole  range  of 
natural  philosophy  with  so  much  freedom  of  opinion  that 
it  gave  great  offence  to  the  clergy,  and  was  violently 
attacked  by  Guillaume  de  S.  Thierry.*  In  a  subsequent 
tract,  entitled  Dragmaticon  phihsopkiay  William  retracted 
his  errors,  which  he  lays  to  the  charge  of  his  youth  when 
'  he  composed  the  obnoxious  work.  His  other  works  are 
a  treatise  on  the  nature  of  man,  entitled  Secunda  philo^ 
sophia^  and  another  on  cosmography,  entitled  Tertia 
philoBophia;  and  one  or  two  other  similar  books.  He 
also  wrote  a  commentary  on  Boethius  De  Comolatione, 
of  which  there  is  a  copy  in  the  library  of  Jesus  College, 
Oxford. 

Editioni. 
Tanner  saentiona  a  work  by  William  de  Conches,  entitled  Opui  historicum 


*  A  detailed  abstract  of  this  work  is  given  in  the  Hist  Lit.  de  Fr.  as 
cited  above, 
t  There  is  a  copy  of  this  in  a  MS.  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris. 


176  HUGO  CANDIDAS.         [Died  ofier  1155. 

de  operibw  nx  dierum,  printed  in  fol.  about  the  year  1473,  of  which  a 

copy  wag  in  Baliol  College,  Oxford. 
De  naturis  saperioribus  et  inferioribus.    An  edition  of  a  work  of  William 

de  Conches  under  this  title  was  printed  about  the  year  1474. 
Dragmaticon  Philosophi».     Strasburg,  1566.     8yo. 
Yenerabilis  Bedse  Opera.  The  treatise  De  Elementis  Philosophise  is  inserted 

in  the  second  volume  of  the  editions  of  Basil  and  Cologne. 


HUGO  CANDIDUS. 

Hugo,  known  as  one  of  the  best  of  our  early  local  his- 
torians, has  left  us  but  few  notices  of  his  own  life,  and  we 
know  nothing  of  him  from  other  sources.  It  is  even  un- 
certain why  he  received  the  epithet  of  Candidas :  some 
asserting  that  it  was  the  candour  of  his  manners,  or  the 
veracity  of  his  history,  which  obtained  for  him  that  appel- 
lative, while  others  attribute  it  to  the  paleness  of  his  face. 
It  is  but  a  vulgar  error  to  call  him  Hugh  Whyte,  as  Leland 
has  done.  Hugo,  with  his  brother  Remaldus,  was  placed  in 
the  abbey  of  Peterborough  at  a  tender  age.  He  tells  us  that 
he  was  a  child  there  under  abbot  Ernulph^  who  ruled  that 
house  from  1 107  to  11 14.  Both  appear  to  have  been  Nor- 
mans. Hugo  was  present  at  the  fire  which  burnt  the  church 
in  1 1 1 7;  and  was  one  of  the  witnesses  when  the  right  arm  of 
St.  Oswald  was  shown  to  Alexander  bishop  of  Lincoln,  which, 
according  to  Hugo^s  own  calculation,  occurred  in  1130.  In 
the  time  of  abbot  Martin  he  was  appointed  subprior,  and 
he  died  early  in  the  abbacy  of  William  de  Waterville,  who 
was  elected  in  1155,  and  deposed  in  1175.*  Hugo's  his- 
tory of  the  monastery  of  Peterborough  is  preserved  in  a 
volume  in  the  archives  of  the  cathedral,  known  by  the  title 
of  Liber  Swaffham.  It  commences  with  the  foundation  of 
the  monastery,  and  ends  after  the  election  of  William  de 

*  A  more  detailed  dissertation  on  the  different  points  of  Hugo's  personal 
history  will  be  found  in  the  preface  to  Gunton's  History  of  Peterborough. 


Died  after  1155. "]     hugo  candidus.  177 

Waterville,  which  event  probably  its  author  did  not  long 
survive.  He  has  preserved  a  few  interesting  historical 
notices  which  are  not  found  elsewhere ;  but  his  style  has 
nothing  to  distinguish  it  from  that  of  the  common  mo- 
nastic chronicles.  He  appears  to  have  used  local  autho- 
rities^ some  of  which  are  lost  ]  but  there  can  be  no  doubt 
he  took  many  of  his  details  from  the  Peterborough  copy  of 
the  Saxon  Chronicle^  and  in  one  instance  at  least  he 
has  mistranslated  a  Saxon  word  in  his  original.^  That  he 
was  not  a  good  English  etymologist  will  appear  by  the 
following  account  of  the  site  of  his  monastery : 

Burch  vero  in  regione  Gynrionim  est  fandatus,  quia  ibi  incipit  eadem  palui 
in  oriental!  parte,  quse  per  milliaria  sexaginta  vel  ampUus  durat.  Est  autem 
eadem  palus  hominibus  permaxime  necessariai  quia  ibi  accipiuntur  ligna  et 
fltipula  ad  ignem,  et  foenum  ad  pabula  jumentorum,  et  coopertorium  ad  domos 
cooperiendaa,  et  plurima  alia  necessaria  et  utilia ;  et  est  ferax  avium  et  piscosa. 
Sunt  enim  ibi  diversi  amnes,  et  plurimee  aqus,  et  maxima  stagna  piscina ; 
estque  regio  in  hiis  rebus  abundantissima.  Idem  autem  Burch  in  optimo 
loco  est  constructus  ;  quia  in  una  parte  palude  et  aquis  optimis,  in  alia  vero 
terrisi  sylvis,  pratis,  et  pascuis  plurimis  faonoratur ;  estque  ex  omni  parte 
formosus,  et  per  terram  accessibilis,  prater  ad  orientalem  plagam,  per  quam 
nisi  navigio  non  venitur.     Praeterfluit  etiam  juxta  monasterium  amnis  Nen 

*  The  passage  referred  to  is  the  account  of  the  marvels  seen  on  the  arrival 
of  abbot  Henry,  thus  related  in  the  Saxon  Chronicle,  A.D.  1127.  Sva  rad- 
lice  swa  Henri  abbat  l>8er  com. .  )>a  son  )>«r  eefter  ^a  ssegon  ^  hserdon  fela 
men  feole  huntes  hunten.  ha  hnntes  wseron  swarte  i  micele  "j  ladlice,  i  here 
hundes  ealle  swarte  *]  brad-egede  *;)  ladlice ;  i  hi  ridone  on  swarte  hors  *)  on 
swarte  bwces.  )>e8  wees  segen  on  the  selve  der-fald  in  ]>a.  tune  on  Burch,  i 
on  ealle  )>a  wudes  )>a  weron  fram  >a  selve  tune  to  Stanforde  ;  *]  )>e  muneces 
herdon  )>a  horn  blawen  j»  hi  blewen  on  nihtes.  Sot^feste  men  heom  kepten 
on  nihtes,  seidon  >e8  ]>e  heom  J>uhte  j)  \>kt  mihte  wel  ben  abuton  twenti  ot$e 
J>ritti  horn  blaweres.  Hugo's  account  is  clearly  taken  from  this : — Eodem 
anno  cum  venisset  ad  abbatiam  visa  sunt  et  audita  monstra  per  totam  quadra- 
gesimam,  et  hoc  noctibus»  et  per  sylvas  et  per  plana  a  monasterio  usque  ad 
Stanford.  Nam  visi  sunt  quasi  venatores  cum  comibus  et  canibus,  sed  omnes 
nigerrimi  erant,  et  equi  eorum  et  canes,  et  aliqui  quasi  haedos  equitantes,  et 
oculos  grandes  habebant.  Et  erant  quasi  viginti  aut  triginta  simul.  Hoc 
non  est  falsum,  quia  plurimi  veracissimi  homines  videnmt  et  audierunt  cor- 
nua.  Hugo  has  translated  bucees  by  hados  instead  of  cervos  t  an  easy  mistake 
for  a  Norman,  who  had  in  his  mind  the  word  bouca.  It  is  very  similar  to 
his  rendering  crttland  by  cruda  terra,  instead  of  terra  corvorum, 

VOL.  II.  N 


178  GEOFVBBY  OF  BURTON.  [Reign  of 

in  aufltrali  parte,  quo  transmeato  libemm  babet  ire  quo  quiaque  Tult  oontinao. 
In  hujus  amnis  medio  est  locus  quasi  qusedam  Yorago,  qui  tarn  profundus  et 
frigidus  est,  ut  in  media  festate,  cum  solis  calor  camino  videtnr  esse  fenren- 
tior,  nuUus  natantium  ejus  ima  adire  poaait,  nee  tamen  nnquam  in  hyeme 
gelatur.  Est  enim  ibi  fons,  ut  dicunt,  unde  ebullit  aqua.  Huno  locum  Me> 
desuuelle  antiqui  appellarunti  a  quo  primi  fundatores  ipsius  monasterii, 
quia  juxta  monasterinm  est,  Medeshamstede  vocaverunt.  Nam  sicut  Ely  a 
oopia  anguillarum  quse  in  paludibns  et  in  aquis  capinntur,  et  Thomeya  prop- 
ter spineta  ibi  succrescentia,  et  Crulandia  propter  crudam  terram,  sunt  dictas, 
ita  Medesbamstede  ab  illo  loco,  sicut  diximus,  nuncupabatur.  Sed  restau- 
ratores  ipsius,  sicut  inA'a  dicemus,  eum  melius  Burch  Toeayerunt.  Hunc 
igitur  locum  ?identes  primi  fiiudatores  ipsius  tarn  egregium.  tarn  perspicnum, 
tarn  amoenum,  tarn  aptum,  atque  fertilissimum  et  jocundissimum,  omni- 
busque  rebus  uberrimum  et  formosissimum,  et  quasi  paradisum  in  terris  sibi 
a  Deo  oblatum,  monasterium  ibi  fundarerunt. 

An  abridged  translation  of  Hugo^s  history  into  Anglo- 
Norman  verse  has  been  preserved,  and  will  be  found  in 
Sparke^s  collection,  where  Hugo's  own  work  is  printed. 
It  has  been  supposed,  on  very  slight  grounds,  that  Hugo 
or  his  brother  Remaldus  wrote  the  contemporary  part  of 
the  Peterborough  copy  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle. 

Edition. 

Historic  Anglicansa  Scriptores  varii,  e  Codicibus  Manuscriptis  nunc  primum 
editi   (by  Josepb   Sparke).     Londini,   1723,  fol.     Historic  Coenobii  ^ 
Burgensis  Scriptores  Tarii.  pp.  1—94,  Hugonis  Candidi  Coenobii  Bur- 
gensis  Historia. 


MINOR  WRITERS  UNDER  STEPHEN. 

Among  the  minor  biographers,  or  rather  writers  of 
saints'  legends,  of  this  reign,  were  Geoffrey  of  Burton 
and  Robert  of  Salop.  The  former  is  said  to  have  been  first 
a  monk  of  Winchester,  of  which  he  was  made  prior  in  1  ill, 
and  from  whence  he  was  removed  in  1114  to  be  made 
abbot  of  Burton-upon-Trent.     He  held  this  office  till  his 


Siiphen.']  ROBBBT  of  salop.  179 

death  j  which  happened  on  the  2nd  of  August,  1151.*  The 
only  work  which  it  seems  certain  that  abbot  GeoflFrey 
wrote  was  a  life  of  St  Modwen,  the  patron  saint  of  his 
house,  for  which,  as  he  stated  in  his  preface,  he  had  pro- 
cured the  materials  from  Ireland.  The  life  of  St.  Modwen, 
in  a  manuscript  of  the  twelfth  century  in  the  Cottonian 
Library,  (Cleop.  A.  11.)  bears  in  an  old  hand  the  title. 
Vita  Modwennm  virginis  HibemictB^  per  Gulielmum  Edys 
Surtanensem  manachum,  A  later  hand  attributes  it  to 
Geoffrey ;  but  it  is  distinctly  stated  in  the  text  to  have 
been  written  by  an  Irishman  named  Concubranus,  of  whom 
nothing  further  is  known.  The  book  itself  is  of  little  value  ; 
no  copy  appears  now  to  exist  with  Geofirey's  preface. 
Perhaps  he  only  procured  a  copy  of  the  book  of  Concu- 
branus from  Ireland,  and  added  a  preface  to  it  for  the  use 
of  his  English  monks. 

We  are  totally  ignorant  of  the  personal  history  of  Ro- 
bert OF  Salop.  He  composed  a  life  of  St.  Winifred,  which 
he  dedicated  to  Guarin,  abbot  of  Worcester,  who  appears 
to  have  died  in  1140.  A  copy  of  this  book,  which  con- 
tains some  curious  legendary  history,  exists  in  MS.  Cotton. 
Claudius  A.v.,  and  has  been  printed.  Bale  represents  this 
writer  as  flourishing  in  1140.  He  can  hardly  be,  as  Tanner 
seems  to  suspect,  the  Robert  of  Salop  who  was  bishop  of 
Bangor  in  1210. 

Bditiott, 
The  life  of  St.  Winifred  is  said  to  have  been  printed  in  1633i  but  perhaps 
it  has  been  confounded  with  the  English  translation  printed  in  1635. 

Drmulaiion, 
The  admirable  life  of  Saint  Wenefiride,  Virgin,  Martyr,  Abbesse.    Written 
in  Latin  above  500  years  ago,  by  Robert,  Monke  and  Prionr  of  Shrews- 
bury, of  the  Yen.   Order  of  S.  Benedict.     Devided  into  two  bookes. 
And  now  translated  into  English,  out  of  a  very  ancient  and  authenticall 

*  See  Tanner,  and  Wharton,  Angl.  Sac.  vol.  i.  p.  324. 

n2 


180        NICHOLAS.      WILLIAM   OP   RIBVAUX.  [Reifftl  of 

manuscripti  for  the  edification  and  comfort  of  Catholikes.  By  J.  F. 
of  the  Society  of  Jesus.  Permissu  Superiorii,  M.DC.  XXXV.  12»^ 
This  volume  was  reprinted  in  1712,  and  this  new  Edition  republished 
with  obsenrations  by  Bishop  Fleetwood,  in  his  <*  Life  and  Miracles  of 
St.  Wenefrede,  together  with  her  Litanies,  and  some  historical  obsenra. 
tions  made  thereon.*'    8to.  London,  1713. 

About  this  time  lived  a  monk  named  Nicholas^  said 
to  have  been  prior  (not  abbot)  of  St.  Alban's^  and  to  have 
written  a  treatise  De  Conceptione  Vtrginia.  Tanner  sup- 
posed he  was  the  same  person  as  Nicholas  prior  of  Wal- 
lingford  (a  cell  to  St.  Alban^s),  who  is  known  as  the  writer 
of  a  book  on  the  life  and  miracles  of  St.  Edmund  the 
martyr^  which,  however,  is  not  extant.  Among  the  manu- 
scripts of  the  monastery  of  Peterborough  there  was  an 
*'  Epistle  of  Nicholas,  prior  of  St.  Alban's,  to  Maurice  the 
monk.^'*    Bale  states  that  he  flourished  in  1140. 

William  op  Ribvaux,  a  monk  of  Rushford,  com- 
piled about  this  time  a  history  of  England,  which  he 
dedicated  to  Ailred,  abbot  of  Rievauz,  and  which  is 
mentioned  by  Higden  in  his  introduction  to  the  Poly- 
chronicon.  Bale  says  that  he  died  in  1146;  while  Pits 
places  his  death  in  1160. 

Richard  of  Worcester,  a  Latin  poet  of  this  age,  who 
appears  to  have  been  a  monk  of  Winchester,  is  known  to 
us  only  by  the  following  lines  on  the  death  of  Henry  I. 
preserved  in  a  nearly  contemporary  manuscript.t 

Rieardi  Uuigomenns. 

Clenis  pastore,  monachus  patre,  plebs  monitorei 
Proh  dolor !  urbs  Wenta  solito  yiduatur  honore. 
Nam  tua  dam  viguit  terris,  Henrice,  potestas, 
Uuintonie  fraus  nulla  fait,  regna^it  honestas. 

*  Sec  Ganton,  Hist,  of  Peterb.  p.  201. 

t  MS.  Reg.  6  A.  vi.  fol.  109,  t<».  in  the  British  Maseum. 


Stephen.]  richard  of  Worcester.  181 

Nanc  pro  morte  toa  flet  ciyis,  plorat  arator» 

JuBtitise  cultor,  cum  milite  juris  amator. 

Deflet  NormanniUi  cnm  Francigena,  Cenomannisi 

Sed  magis  est  Anglis  et  erit  dolor  omnibus  annis. 

Lex  Ciceronem,  jusque  Catonem,  fiwque  Varonem, 

Flangite  tarn  dignum,  sapientemi  tamque  benignum. 

Nobilitas,  mores,  pradentia,  lausi  et  honores, 

Flete  vinim  magnnm,  fortem,  mitem  yelut  agnnm. 

Moribas  omatom,  yirtatom  flore  beatnm, 

Eztitit  et  monim  decus  et  diadema  bonomm. 

Clara  stirpe  satusi  specnlo  Tit»  deooratus» 

Prsecluis  in  sensn,  preclaros  divite  oensu ; 

Yir  pius  ac  mitis,  florescens  ntpote  Titis 

Qose  non  marescit,  nt  adhnc  bona  funa  patescit. 

Lande  Tirens  clara,  qnia  Christns  mentis  in  ara 

Affuit  in  vita  dum  nobilis  hie  coenobita. 

Non  in  eo  fuerat  crimen  sed  mens  Salomonis ; 

Non  mens  perfidies  torvi  sed  posse  Neronis ; 

Non  Paridis  mala  fama  fait  sed  forma  vennsta ; 

Hectoris  et  yirtus,  oratio  pro  grege  jnsta. 

Ergo  jure  dolet  Uointoma,  nam  sna  jura 

Nunc  in  morte  viri  tam  magni  sunt  pexitura. 

Si  prece  yel  pretio  magno  redimi  potuisset, 

Hsec  sibi  continuo  pia  concio  nostra  dedisset. 

Omnibus  Henrico  coenobitis  semper  amico 

Sit  prece  justorum  requies  super  aatra  polommy 

Pastor  ut  indenmis  maneat  sine  fine  peremiis. 


182 


Section  IV. — ^Thb  Rbion  of  Hsnbt  II. 

ROBERT  LE  POULE. 

One  of  the  most  distinguished  literary  men  of  the  be- 
ginning of  the  reign  of  Henry  II,  was  Robert,  named  in 
Latin  Robertus  Pullus,*  which  would  be  the  translation 
of  Robert  le  Poule,  or  Robert  the  chicken.  We  have  no 
information  as  to  the  place  of  his  birth»  but  there  can  be 
little  doubt  that  he  studied  in  Paris,  from  whence  he 
came  to  Exeter,  probably  early  in  the  reign  of  Stephen. 
From  Exeter  he  removed  to  Oxford,  where  he  lectured  on 
the  Scriptures,  which  had  fallen  into  neglect  in  the  schools, 
and  preached  on  Sundays  to  the  people  during  five  years.f 
One  of  his  hearers  was  the  celebrated  John  of  Salisbury. 
In  1141,  or  soon  after,  he  was  invited  to  Rome  by  pope 
Innocent  II.,  wher«  in  1144  he  was  made  a  cardinal  by 
Celestine  II.,  and  he  Was  subsequently  made  chancellor 
of  the  church  of  Rome  by  Lucius  II.  (pope  from  1144  to 
to  1145).  He  is  stated  to  have  been  likewise  archdeacon 
of  Rochester.  The  date  of  his  death  is  quite  uncertain ; 
Tanner  says  he  flourished  in  1150,  and  he  belongs  per- 
haps with  more  propriety  to  the  reign  of  Stephen  than  to 
that  of  Henry  II. 

Robert's  principal  work  was  a  sort  of  compendium  of 

•  Tanner  and  Leland  call  him  Polenius,  Polenos,  PoUas,  Pulcy,  Pollen, 
Bullen.     Pullua  is  the  only  form  for  which  there  is  good  authority. 

t  For  these  facts  we  have  the  authority  of  an  anonymous  continuator  of 
Bede.  Venit  magister  Robertus  cognomento  PuUns  de  civitate  Exonia  Oze- 
fordam,  ibique  scripturas  divinas,  quae  per  idem  tempus  in  Anglia  obsolue- 
ranti  prse  echolaaticis  quippe  neglectie  fiierant,  per  quinquennium  legit, 
omnique  die  dominico  verbum  Dei  populo  prsedicayit,  ex  ciyus  doctrina 
plurimi  profecenmt. 


Flourished  in  1150.]      robbrt  le  poulb.  183 

the  doctrines  and  practice  of  the  churchy  in  eight  books^ 
published  under  the  title  of  BententioB,  or  lAbri  Senteip' 
tiarumy  or  Sententue  de  THniiate.  There  is  a  good  copy 
of  this  book  in  the  British  Museum.  It  exhibits  great 
learning  in  the  theology  of  that  age.  The  following  ac- 
count of  Elijah  and  Enoch,  taken  from  the  twelfth  chapter 
of  the  eighth  book,  will  serve  as  a  specimen  of  Robert's 
style,  and  is  illustrative  of  a  curious  legend  prevalent 
during  the  Middle  Ages. 

Helias  et  Enoc,  alter  post  diluyium  alter  ante,  in  paradUum  assumpti  snnti 
ezpectantes  ut  quemadmodum  Johannes  Salvatoris  antecessit  et  demonstra- 
Yit  adventam  ita  et  ipsi  jadicis  adventum  sno  preeconata  circa  finem  mnndi 
anAYintieikty  qnatennf  omnee  prime  contra  Antiehristi  conflictom  postmodnm 
contra  judicium  piwparati  festinent.  Hi  duo  quoniam  absque  cibi  et  potus 
sOBtentationey  tamen  neque  esuiunt  neque  atiunt,  imo  quoniam  eos  nulla 
omnino  mcklestiaattingitf  multo  melius  creduntur  habere  quam  nos,  multoque 
minus  quam  habituri  sunt.  Habent  nimirum  felicitatem  tanto  loco  condig- 
nam,  sed  sperant  in  coelo  longe  pretiosiorem.  Hi  juzta  praedicationem 
Chriati  triennio  panloque  amplius  verbo  Dei  insistentes  creduntur  reducturi 
corda  filiomm  ad  patres,  id  est,  Judeeorum  ad  fidem  patriarcharum,  et  con  • 
firmaturi  et  prsemunituri  ecclesiam  Dei  contra  jam  jamque  venturam  mundi 
immntatlonem.  Nimirum  tunc  Judnos  post  longam  captivitatero  ab  undique 
ad  terram  suam  traditio  est  redituros,  nisi  verbum  fidei  audient  atquo  susd- 
pient,  ubi  ab  Antichristo,  ibidem  sedem  regni  usurpaturo,  tormenta  tanquam 
boni  athlete  Christi  fbrtiter  sustinebunt.     Interim  autem  male  habebit  gens 

ilia,  miserieordiam  tandem  consecutura Inter  primes  autem  Helyas 

et  Enoc  peracto  officii  suo  curriculo  ab  Antichristo,  tanquam  rationibus  snis 
incommodi,  interficientur,  et  in  plateia  jacentes  sepellri  prohibebuntur,  ne 
qua  Adncia  sit  resurrectionis  quam  prsedioaverant,  ne  qua  illorum  imitatio  sit 
aut  in  dootrin«  aut  in  vita.  Quos  miseros  uniyersi  cernant.  Post  mortem 
autem  illorum,  quae  futura  circa  initium  sestimatur  regni  Antiehristi,  in  sua 
pace  circa  tres  annos  et  dimidium,  subjugate  prius  sibi  variis  modis  mundo, 
r^naturfts  pntatur. 

Twenty  sermons  by  this  writer  are  preserved  in  a  manu- 
script at  Lambeth ;  a  comment  on  some  parts  of  the  book 
of  Psalms  follows  the  Senteniue  in  the  manuscript  in  the 

*  MS.  Reg.  10  B.  V.  Incipiunt  Sententise  magistri  Roberti  PuUi,  sanctae 
Romanes  ecelesise  pretbyteri,  cardinalis,  et  cancellarii.  There  was  an  early 
MS.  of  this  work  in  the  library  of  the  abbey  of  S.  Germain-des-Pres  at  Paris, 
from  which  some  extracts  were  printed  by  Jo.  Morinns,  De  Disciplina  Poeni- 
tentiiBy  p«  44* 


184       RICHARD    AND    JOHN,    PRIORS    OF    HEXHAM. 

British  Museum ;  and  he  is  said  to  have  written  also  a 
commentary  on  the  Apocalypse^  a  treatise  on  the  con- 
tempt of  the  world,  and  another  on  the  sayings  of  the 
learned  men  (super  doctorum  diciisj. 

EditUm. 
Robert!  Polli  Sententice,  edited  by  Hugo  Mathoat,  Paris,  1655,  fol. 


RICHARD  AND  JOHN,  PRIORS  OF  HEXHAM. 

Two  successive  priors  of  Hexham,  in  Northumberland, 
distinguished  themselves  as  writers  during  the  earlier  part 
of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.  Richard  of  Hexham  is  said  to 
have  been  made  prior  of  his  house  in  1143,  which  is  all 
we  know  of  his  personal  history.  He  compiled  a  short 
history  of  the  last  two  years  of  the  reign  of  Henry  I.  and 
of  the  more  remarkable  events  of  that  of  Stephen,  especi- 
ally of  the  celebrated  battle  of  the  Standard,  which  was 
then  a  memorable  event  in  the  history  of  his  native  dis- 
trict. His  other  work  is  a  history  of  the  church  of  Hex- 
ham^ from  its  foundation  to  the  time  of  archbishop  Thurs- 
tan.  Tanner  also  attributes  to  Richard  of  Hexham  a 
history  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.  commencing  with  the 
words.  Anno  igitur  Bom,  incamat,  Mclvi^,  and  a  brief 
chronicle  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  the  time  of 
the  emperor  Henry  V.  The  only  reason,  however,  for 
attributing  to  him  the  last-mentioned  tract  appears  to  be 
the  circumstance  of  its  following  one  of  his  writings  in 
the  manuscript  from  which  Twysden  printed  them. 

John  of  Hexham  occurs  as  abbot  in  1170.  He  wrote 
a  continuation  of  the  history  of  Simeon  of  Durham  from 


RICHARD   AND   JOHN,    PRIORS    OF    HEXHAM.        185 

1130  to  1154.  The  other  two  books  attributed  to  him  by 
Bale^  De  Signis  et  Cometis,  and  Descriptio  belli  Scotici, 
are  only  parts  of  his  continuation  of  Simeon.  Bale  also 
ascribes  to  prior  John  Condones  aliquot. 

The  works  of  these  two  writers  are  of  small  extent^  and 
have  little  merits  except  so  far  as  they  contain  some  histo- 
rical notices  peculiar  to  themselves.  Their  style  is  that 
of  the  ordinary  Latin  writers  of  the  age  in  which  they 
lived,  as  will  be  seen  by  the  following  passage  of  John  of 
Hexham's  continuation  of  Simeon  of  Durham,  describing 
the  remarkable  natural  phenomena  which  had  been  ob- 
served on  the  2nd  of  August,  1133. 

Cum  igitur  rex  prsedictuB  Henricus  circa  maris  litns  transfretandi  causa 
moraretuT;  vento  perssepe  ad  transiretaiidum  existente  secundo,  tandem  die 
prsefato  circa  meridiem  cum  ad  mare  transiturus  perrezisset»  suorum»  ut 
mos  est  regibus,  constipatus  militum  turmis,  subitoin  aere  nubes  apparuit, 
quK  tamen  ejusdem  quantitatis  per  universam  Angliam  non  companiit.  In 
quibusdam  enim  locis  quasi  dies  obscurus  videbatur,  in  quibusdam  vero 
tantae  obscuritatis  erat  ut  lumine  candelfe  ad  quodlibet  agendum  ipsa  pro- 
tecti  homines  indigerent.  Unde  rex  latusque  regium  ambientes  et  alii  quam- 
plures  mirantesy  et  in  coelum  oculos  levantes,  solem  ad  instar  novee  lunee 
lucere  conspexerunt,  qui  tamen  non  diu  se  uno  modo  habebat,  nam  aliquando 
latior,  aliquando  subtilior,  quandoque  incurvior,  quandoque  erectior,  nunc 
solito  modo  firmusi  modo  movens  et  admodnm  vivi  argenti  motus  et  liquidus 
videbatur.  Asserunt  quidam  ecclipsim  solis  factam  fuisse  ;  quod  si  Yemm 
est,  tunc  sol  erat  in  capite  draconis  et  luna  in  cauda,  rel  sol  in  cauda  et 
luna  in  capite  in  y.  signo,  id  est  leone,  in  xvii.  gradu  ipsius  signi.  Erat 
autem  tunc  luna  in  xxvii.  Eodem  etiam  die  et  eadem  hora  stelle  plurimse 
appamere.  Kecnon  die  eodem  cum  naves  ad  praedicti  regis  transitnm 
parate  in  litore  anchoris  firmarentur,  mari  pacatissimo  yentoque  modico 
persistente,  cujusdam  nayis  magns  anchor»  a  terra  quasi  yi  aliqua  ayulsse 
sunt,  nayisque  commota  nultis  mirantibus  eamque  tenere  nitentibns  nee 
yalentibus,  sibi  proximam  nayim  commoyit,  et  sic  octo  naves  vi  ignota  com- 
motue  sunt,  ut  nulla  illarum  illsesa  remansisset. 

Bdition, 

Historite  Anglicanse  Scriptores  X. . . .  ex  vetustis  manuscriptis  nunc  primum 
in  lucem  editi.  [by  Twysden]  coll.  257-282,  Incipit  Historia  Jo- 
hannis  prioris  Hagustaldensis  ecclesiae  xxv.  annorum.  coll.  285-308, 
Ricardus  prior  Hagustaldensis,  de  statu  et  episcopis  Hagustaldensis 
ecclesi».  coll.  309*330,  Incipit  Historia  piae  memoriae  Ricardi  prioris 
Hagustaldensis  ecclesiee  de  Gestis  regis  Stephani  et  de  BeUo  Standardii, 


186 


ROBERT  OP  CRICKLADE. 

Leland  and  Wood  call  this  writer  Roberttu  Canutui, 
but  it  does  not  appear  on  what  authority.  He  names 
himself  o/  Cricklade,  of  which  place  he  was  probably  a 
native,  and  he  says  that  he  was  prior  of  Oxford.*  Wood 
states  that  he  was  made  prior  of  St.  Frideswide's  in  II4I9 
and  pretends  that  he  was  rector  of  the  schools.  He  occurs 
in  a  document  as  prior  of  St.  Frideswide's  at  Oxford  in 
1159.  He  enjoyed  the  favour  of  Henry  II.,  for  whose 
use  he  compiled  an  abridgment  of  the  Natural  History  of 
Pliny  the  Elder,  which  he  comprised  in  nine  books.  A 
copy  of  this  work  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum^f 
with  the  following  dedication  to  the  king,  which  will 
serve  as  an  example  of  his  style : 

Tibi»  illiiitriBiime  rex  Anglonun  Henriee,  ego  tvns  founalui  Rodbertot 
hoc  opua  dedicavi,  quod  de  NaturalU  HiatoriB  Plinii  Seoundi  liboria  triginte 
Mptem  qoaei  ex  immenso  pelago  ingenioU  mei  sagena  extrazi»  rqptttMM  meevaa 
incongnium  Talde  fore  de  tot  et  tantarum  regioDum  dominma  et  reetorem 
ignorare  partes  orbia  cujaa  non  minima  parti  domlnaris.  Siqvidem  tiotam 
est  quia  cum  sis  in  belUcis  negotiis  inTictisaimus,  parto  otio  non  minus  es 
in  litterali  scieatia  studiosus.  In  hoc  igitur  opusculo  cognosces,  ti  kgert 
dignabem,  fluxus  et  refluxua  oceani  circumgirantis  et  irrumpantis  terram, 
diTenitates  populorum  et  mores  eorum,  ferociaa  bestiarum  et  impetui 
ferarum,  naturae  animalium  et  Tolucrum,  pisdumque  et  reptiMum,  «t  alia 
mira  quae  duce  natura  vel  contra  naturam  iiunt  in  coelo  sursum,  sire  in 
terra  deorsum,  in  singulis  quoque  dementis.  Fostremo  arborusa  el  her- 
barum  Tires,  et  caetera  quae  ex  animantibus  ad  morborum  remedia  pertinent» 
lapidum  quoque  plurimorum  gemmammque  nomina  et  Tirtutee.  GapituU 
Ycro  singulorum  librorum  prsnotavi,  ut  cum  tibi  placuerit,  quidpiam  horum 
ad  menaoriam  reducere,  sive  aliis  manifestare,  prsenotato  numero  dtius 
oocurrat.     Sains  et  sanitat  tibi  proTeniat  bic  et  in  «ternum.    Amen. 

*  Studiosis  et  praedpue  claustralibus  et  scbolaaticis  Rodbertus  Krike- 
landensis  prior  Oxinefordias  non  superbe  sapere  sed  tramitem  disdplinie 
humiliter  percurrere.    Proaem.  in  Deflorat.  Plin. 

t  MS.  Reg.  15  C.  XrV. 


2>ferfll66.]  AILRBD   OF  RIBYAUZ.  187 

The  other  works  of  this  writer  are,  ft  treatise  De  eon^ 
nubio  Jacob,  dedicated  to  a  person  (apparently  an  abbot) 
named  Laurence  |  another  treatise  in  four  books  entitied 
the  Mirror  of  Faitii  (Speculum  FideiJ ;  and  fortyM>ne 
homilies  *'  on  the  last  part  of  Ezeohiel^  where  pope  Ghre-* 
gory  ended/'  dedicated  to  a  canon  or  prior  named 
Reginald.  A  manuscript  of  the  first  of  these  works  is 
preserved  in  Baliol  College^  Oxford ;  and  one  of  the  last  in 
Pembroke  Hall^  Cambridge*  Various  commentaries  on 
different  parts  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  are  also  ascribed  to 
Robert  of  Criokladei  by  Bale  and  others^  but  they  are  of 
doubtful  authority. 


AILRED  OP  RIEVAUX. 

Th£  name  of  this  eminent  writer^  which  was  properly 
Ethelred^  is  variously  spelt  in  old  manuscripts  Ailred^ 
Aelred^  Alred^  Ealred^  Alured^  &c.  Ailred^*  the  most 
usual  form^  appears  to  be  merely  a  north-coimtry  abbre- 
viation of  Ethelred.  He  was  bom  in  1109,  and  was  edu- 
cated in  company  with  Henry  son  of  David  king  of  Scotland^ 
whose  friendship^  as  well  as  that  of  his  father,  he  continued 
long  to  enjoy,  and  tiie  latter  woidd  have  raised  him  to  a 
bishopric,  but  he  preferred  entering  himself  as  a  Cistercian 
monk  in  the  abbey  of  Rievaux  in  the  north  riding  of  ^ 
Yorkshire*  Here  his  virtues  and  abilitiee  were  soon  ac- 
knowledged by  his  fellow-monks,  and  he  was  made  master 
of  the  novices.     His  monkish  biographer  tells  us  that  his 

*  The  nsue  is  tprtt  thiu  in  the  eariy  catelogve  of  the  lihrary  of  the  abbey 
of  Rieranx,  printed  in  the  Reliquise  Antiquae,  toI.  ii.  p.  18.  An  eariy 
«nonyiiKraf  life  of  Ailred  if  printed  in  Gapgrare»  and  reprinted  in  the  Acta 
Sanctorum  Jannariiy  toI.  i.  p.  749. 


188  AILRED   OF   RIEVAU^X,  [5or«1109. 

extraordinary  sanctity  was  exhibited  by  miracles  which  he 
performed  almost  in  his  childhood. 

After  remaining  some  time  at  Rievaux,  Ailred  was  re- 
moved to  be  made  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Revesby  in 
Lincolnshire^  which  was  a  more  recent  foundation  of  the 
Cistercian  order.*  It  is  probable  that  he  did  not  long  hold 
this  office^  for  he  was  chosen  abbot  of  Rieyaux  in  1146^t 
in  the  reign  of  king  Stephen^  and  he  appears  to  have 
long  enjoyed  the  favour  of  Henry  II.,  to  whom  he  dedi- 
cated one  of  his  writings  before  Henry's  accession  to  the 
English  throne.  In  1156,  according  to  John  of  Peterbo- 
rough, Ailred  wrote  his  "  Epitaph  of  the  kings  of  Scot- 
land,*'  X  a  work  which  appears  now  to  be  lost.  In  1162  he 
exerted  his  influence  with  the  king  so  as  to  be  chiefly  instru- 
mental in  procuring  a  reconciUation  between  him  and  the 
pope.§  It  was  probably  about  this  time  that  he  attended 
the  chapter  of  his  order  at  Citeaux.  Reginald  of  Durham, 
who  received  the  story  from  Ailred's  mouth, |i  informs  us 
that  he  employed  himself  on  the  way  to  Citeaux  in  com- 
posing a  rythmical  prose  in  honour  of  St.  Cuthbert,  whom 
he  respected  above  all  the  other  saints ;  but  he  laid  aside 
his  unfinished  work  on  his  arrival,  and  he  appears  to  have 

*  There  u  no  reason  for  doubting  this  fact :  the  anonymous  biographer. 
Act.  Sanct.  p.  749,  distinctly  states  that  he  was  abbot  of  Revesby,  preyious 
to  being  elected  abbot  of  Rievanx,  and  John  of  Peterborough,  as  quoted  in  the 
note  below,  makes  the  same  assertion.  The  list  of  the  earlier  abbots  of 
Reyesby  is  very  imperfect. 

t  See  John  of  Hexham,  ap.  Decern  Scriptores,  col.  274. 

X  Sanctus  Alredus  abbas  Rievallensis  ex  abbate  Revesbyensi  Epitaphium 
regum  Scotorum  scripsit.  Chron.  Joh.  abbatis  S.  Petri  de  Burgo,  Ed. 
Sparke,  p.  78. 

§  Rex  Henricus  honorifice  recepit  papam  Alexandrum  versus  GaUias 
venientem,  inductus  ad  ejus  obedientiam  per  literas  Amulphi  episoopi  Luxo- 
viensis,  et  maxime  viva  voce  sancti  Alredi  abbatis  Ryevallioe.  Chron.  Jo.  ab. 
S.  Petr.  p.  79. 

II  Hsec  dominus  Rievallensis  nobis  quam  sspius  retuUt^  qui  veridicus 
testis  et  relator  de  hia  subsistit.    Reg.  Ponelm.  p,  177. 


Died  1166.']  ailbbd  of  rievaux.  189 

forgotten  it  entirely  during  his  journey  to  the  coasts  on 
his  return  in  company  with  the  other  EngUsh  abbots  of 
his  order.  They  found  the  sea  raging  with  tempest^  which 
kept  them  in  anxious  suspense  during  fifteen  days^  when 
at  length  Ailred  suddenly  bethought  him  of  his  prose  in 
honour  of  his  favourite  saint,  which  he  recommenced,  and 
the  sea  became  calm  and  propitious  the  moment  it  was 
finished.  "  Christ,^*  says  Reginald,  ^^  willed  thus  to  de- 
clare the  power  of  St.  Cuthbert,  when  he  chose  to  calm 
the  troubled  sea  for  the  prayer  of  none  other  of  the  saints 
to  whose  help  they  committed  themselves,*'  An  anec- 
dote like  this,  more  than  any  other  circumstance,  exhibits 
the  weak  superstition  which  obscured  Ailred*s  piety.  His 
rules  for  the  government  and  behaviour  of  nuns  furnish  a 
singular  picture  of  the  austerity  of  his  disposition,  for  he 
there  condemns  the  indulgence  of  the  most  innocent 
afiiections  which  are  natural  to  their  sex,  as  in  the  following 
passage  where  he  forbids  the  society  of  little  children : 

Paeris  et  puellis  nullum  ad  te  concedas  accessum.  Sunt  queedam  inclusae 
quee  in  docendis  puellis  occupantur,  et  cellam  suam  vertunt  in  scholam  :  ilia 
sedet  ad  feneatram,  iste  in  portion  resident,  ilia  intuetur  singulas,  et  inter 
puellares  motus  nunc  irascitur,  nunc  ridet,  nunc  minatur,  nunc  percutit, 
nunc  blanditur,  nunc  osculatur,  nunc  flentem  vocat  pro  verbere  propius, 
palpat  faciem,  atringit  collum,  et  in  amplezum  mens  nunc  liliam  vocat,  nunc 
amicam.  Qualiter  inter  heec  memoria  Dei,  ubi  ssecularia  et  carnalia,  etsi  non 
perficiantur,  moventur  tamen,  et  quasi  sub  oculis  depingiintur  ? 

Reginald  of  Durham  tells  us  that  at  this  time  Ailred  was 
enfeebled  by  disease ;  and  we  know  from  another  source 
that  during  the  last  ten  years  of  his  life  he  suffered  from 
the  combined  evils  of  the  stone  and  the  gout.*  Yet  these 
appear  to  have  placed  little  restraint  upon  his  activity. 
In  1163  he  was  present  in  the  abbey  of  Westminster  at 
the  translation  of  the  relics  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  pro- 

*  Licet  enim  calculo  et  artbritica  passione  ante  obitum  per  decennium 
Texatas  fuisset.    Vita  ap.  Capgrave. 


190  AiLRBD  OF  RtEYAtrx.         [Bom  1109. 

cured  by  abbot  Laurence  and  celebrated  by  Thomas 
Becket ;  and  on  that  occasion  he  oflfered  the  Life  of  king 
Edward  (one  of  the  most  celebrated  of  his  works)  and  a 
homily  in  his  praise  on  the  text  Nemo  accendit  htcemam.^ 
In  the  following  year,  a.  d.  1164,  Ailred  made  an  exour* 
sion  to  the  south-west  of  Scotland,  for  the  purpose  of 
ciyilizing  the  half-savage  Pictish  population  of  Galloway^ 
and  visited  Kirdcudbright  on  the  20th  of  March,  the  fes- 
tival of  his  favourite  saintf  Ailred  died  on  the  12th  of 
January,  1166,  at  the  age  of  fifty-seven  4  He  was  canon- 
ised in  1191.§  In  Leland's  time  his  tomb  was  still  shown 
in  the  church  of  Rievaux,  adorned  sumptuously  with  gold 
and  silver. 

Ailred  obtained  the  honour  of  canonisation  by  the  ex- 
treme austerity  of  his  life.  He  raised  the  reputation  and 
increased  the  riches  of  his  abbey  of  Rievaux,  which  at  his 
death  consisted  of  a  hundred  and  eighty  monks  and  fifty 
lay-brethren.  His  early  biographer  tells  us  that  he  read 
much,  and  that  he  was  particularly  attached  to  the  works 
of  St.  Augustine,  whose  style  and  sentiments  he  seems  to 
have  aimed  at  imitating.  Ailred's  writings  exhibit  no 
great  share  of  learning  or  literary  taste;  but,  amid  his 
superstitious  weakness,  there  is  a  warmth  and  earnestness 
of  piety  which  we  find  in  few  of  his  contemporaries.    The 

•  Translatio  sancti  Edwardi  regis  et  confeasoris,  procurata  per  Laorentiuin 
ex  priore  Dunelmensi  Westmonaaterii  abbatem,  oelebrata  est  per  sanctnm 
Thomam  archiepiscopum  Cantaariensem.  Sanctos  Alredus  abbas  huic 
translationi  interfuit,  offerens  Vitam  regis  et  Ocoeliam  super  Nemo  accendit 
lucemam,  etc.  ad  laudem  ejusdem  sancti  mirifice  dictatam.  Chron.  Jo.  ab» 
S.  Petri  de  Burgo,  ap.  Sparke,  p.  79. 

t  Vita  M\r.  ap.  Capgrave,  where  will  be  found  a  striking  picture  of  the 
barbarous  manners  of  the  people  of  Galloway.  The  dates  and  some  inci- 
dents of  the  journey  are  given  by  Reginald  of  Durham,  p.  178. 

t  Vita  ap.  Capgrave,  in  the  Acte  SS.  Januarii,  vol.  i.  p.  751.  Chron. 
JoU.  abb.  S.  Petri,  p.  80,  and  Tanner. 

§  Chron.  Jo.  ab.  S.  Petri  de  Burgo,  p.  87. 


Died  1166.]         ailbbd  op  ribvaux.  191 

following  passage  is  taken  from  the  seventh  chapter  of  the 
Compendium  Speculi  Charitatis : 

Quid  eiiSm  snayiuSf  quid  glorioaini,  quam  mnndi  contemptn  mnndo  se 
cemere  cekiorem  ?  Ac  in  bonn  conscientle  yertioe  consistentem,  totum 
mundum  habere  sub  pedibus?  nihil  videre  quod  appetat,  nnllam  quern 
metnat,  nallnm  cni  invideat ;  nihil,  quod  possit  ab  alio  anfferri,  ttram  esse ; 
nihil,  quod  ab  alio  sibi  possit  inferrii  malum  esse ;  dumque  in  illam  haeredi- 
tatem  ineorraptibilem,  et  incontaminatam,  et  immarcescibilemy  conserratam 
in  coelifl  dirigit  mentis  obtutam,  SKCulares  diyitias  quasi  corniptibiles,  car- 
nales  illecebras  quasi  contaminatas»  omnes  mundipompas  quasi  marcescibiles, 
quadam  mentis  nobilitate  contemnerei  et  in  iUud  propheticum  ezultare : 
omnia  caro  foenumi  et  omnia  gloria  ejus  tanquam  flos  foeni ;  ezsiecatum  est 
foenum  et  ceddet  flos,  verbum  autem  Domini  manet  in  etemum  ?  Quidrogo 
dulcius,  quidTe  tranqulllius,  quam  turbidis  carnis  motibus  non  agitari,  car- 
nalium  incentiTorum  inoendiis  non  aduri,  ad  nullum  illecebrosum  moveri 
aspectum  ;  sed  tepescentem  rore  pudidtin  carnem  spiritui  habere  substratam, 
non  jam  ad  carnales  Toluptates  illectricem,  sed  ad  spiritualia  ezercitia  obe- 
dientissimam  adjutricem  ?  Quid  tandem  divin»  tranquillitati  tam  prozimum, 
quam  illatis  oontumeliis  non  moveri,  nullo  supplicio»  nuUaTe  persecutione 
terreri,  unam  mentis  et  in  prosperis  et  in  adTersis  habere  constantiam ;  ini- 
mieum  et  amicum  eodem  oculo  intueri ;  ad  ejus  se  simllitudinem  conformare 
qui  facit  solem  suum  oriri  super  bonos  et  malos,  et  pluit  super  justos  et 
injustos?  H«o  simul  omnia  in  cantata,  et  non  niai  in  caritate  simul  omnia ; 
ac  proinde  in  ilia  vera  tranquillitas,  ^era  suayitas ;  quia  ipsa  est  jugum  Do- 
mini, quam  si  Domino  invitante  tulerimus,  inveniemus  requiem  animabus 
nostris,  quia  jugum  Domini  suave  est  et  onus  leve»  Proinde  cnterse  yirtutes 
sunt  nobis  aut  quasi  fesso  vehiculum,  aut  quasi  yiatori  viaticum,  aut  quasi 
Incema  caligantibus,  aut  quasi  arma  pugnantibus ;  at  caritas,  quae,  licet  ut 
alia  Yirtutes  sint,  sit  oportet  in  omnibus,  specialius  tamen  ipsa  et  requies 
fatigato,  et  yiatori  mansio,  et  plena  lux  pervenienti,  et  perfeota  corona 
yictori. 

As  a  historical  writer,  Ailred  has  little  importance  in 
comparison  even  with  the  ordinary  chroniclers  of  his  age, 
for  he  too  generally  prefers  improbable  legends  to  sober 
truth.  We  may  give  as  an  example  the  following  account 
of  the  legendary  consecration  of  the  church  of  Westmin- 
ster by  the  apostle  St.  Peter,  taken  from  the  life  of  Ed- 
ward the  Confessor ;  it  will  serve,  with  the  passages  already 
quoted,  as  a  specimen  of  Ailred's  style  and  language : 

Nocte  autem  dedicationem  ejusdem  ecclesin  precedente,  piscatori  cuidam 
Thamesia  fluvii,  qui  idem  monasterium  praterfluit,  ulteriori  ripa  in  habitu 


192  AILRED  OF   RIEVAUX.  [Bom  1109. 

peregrino  B.  Petrus  apparens,  promissa  mercede,  transponi  se  ab  eodem  et 
petiit  et  promeruit.  Egressus  autem  de  navicula,  ecclesiam  piscatore  cer- 
nente  ingreditur,  et  ecce  subito  lux  coelestis  emicult,  miroque  spleadore  illus- 
traDs  omnia  noctem  conyertit  in  diem.  Adfuit  cum  apostolo  multitado 
civium  supemorum  ingredientiam,  melodiaque  coelestis  insonuit,  indicibilis 
odoris  fragrantia  nares  peifandebat.  Peractis  autem  omnibus  quae  ad  ecclesise 
dedicationem  spectant  solemniis,  redit  ad  piscatorem  piscium  piscator  egre- 
gius  hominum ;  quem  dum  diyini  luminis  fulgore  perterritum  et  alienatum 
pene  sensibus  repexisset,  blanda  consolatione  reddit  hominem  sibi,  animum 
rationi.  Ingredientes  cymbam  simul  uterque  piscator,  ait  Petnu :  Num- 
quid  pnlmentarium  non  habes  ?  Et  ille,  Inconsaetsci  inquit,  luds  perfusione 
stupidus  et  ezpectatione  tui  detentus,  nihil  cepi,  sed  promissam  a  te  mer- 
cedem  securus  ezpectayi.  Ad  haec  apostolus  ait :  Laxa  nunc  retia  in  cap- 
turam.  Paruit  tmperanti  piscator,  et  mox  implevit  rete  piscium  maxima 
multitudo.  Omnes  erant  ejusdem  generis  pisces,  preeter  unum  mine 
enormitatis  esocium.  Quibus  ad  ripam  extractis,  dixit  apostolus :  Hunc  qui 
prse  cieteris  pretio  et  magnitudine  prsecellit,  Mellito  ex  mea  parte  defer 
piscem  episcopo.  Pro  nautica  vero  mercede  csetera  tibi  toUe.  Hujus  generis 
copia  abundabiB  in  vita  tna,  et  longo  tempore  post  te  progenies  tua :  tantum 
ne  ultra  piscari  audeatis  in  celebritate  dominica.  Ego  sum  Petrus  qui 
loquor  tecum,  qui  cum  meis  concivibus  constructam  in  meo  nomine  basili- 
cam  dedicavi,  episcopalemque  benedictionem  mese  sanctificationis  auctoritate 
prseveni.  Die  ergo  pontifici  quae  vidisti  et  audisti,  tuoque  sermoni  signa 
parietibus  impressa  testimonium  perhibebunt  •  •  •  •  His  dictis  confestim  ab 
oculis  ejus  disparuit. 

Ailred's  historical  writings  are  not  very  numerous.  They 
consist  of, — 

1.  The  Life  of  Edward  the  Confessor,  which  has  been 
frequently  printed. 

2.  An  account  of  the  battle  of  the  Standard,  printed  by 
Twysden. 

3.  A  work  entitled  in  the  old  catalogue  of  Rievaux,  De 
generositate  et  moribus  et  morte  regis  Davidy  which  also 
has  been  printed  by  Twysden,  who  gives  it  the  title, 
Genealogia  regum  Anglorum,  This  book,  dedicated  to 
Henry  II.  before  his  accession  to  the  throne,  begins  with 
an  account  of  David  king  of  Scotland,  which  is  followed 
by  a  brief  history  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  and  Anglo-Norman 
kings.  The  old  bibliographers  have  made  more  than  one 
book  out  of  this  tract. 


Died  1166.]  ailred  of  rievaux.  193 

4.  The  Life  of  St.  Margaret^  queen  of  Scotland,  which 
is  only  preserved  in  an  abridged  form. 

5.  The  Story  of  a  nun  of  Watton  in  Yorkshire,  who  was 
seduced  and  afterwards  repented.  This  tract  is  printed 
in  Twysden. 

6.  7-  The  early  catalogue  of  the  Library  of  Rievaux, 
printed  in  the  Reliquiae  Antique,*  enumerates  among 
Ailred's  writings  a  Vita  Sancti  Nimani  Episcopi,  and  a 
treatise  De  Miraculis  Hagtistaldensis  Ecclesia.  The  life 
of  St.  Ninianus  was  formerly  in  MS.  Cotton.  Tiberius  D. 
III.  now  nearly  destroyed.  The  miracles  of  the  church 
of  Hexham  are  preserved  in  the  Bodleian  Library .f  John 
of  Peterborough,  under  the  date  1153,  observes,  ^' Here 
ends  the  chronicle  of  Ailred.*' J 

Ailred's  theological  writings  are  more  numerous,  and 
consist  of, 

8.  Thirty-three  homilies  or  sermons  De  Onere  Baby- 
lonisy  on  the  thirteenth,  fourteenth,  fifteenth,  and  sixteenth 
chapters  of  Isaiah,  addressed  to  Gilbert  bishop  of  London, 
and  therefore  written  after  1161. 

9.  The  Speculum  CharitatiSy  or  mirror  of  divine  love. 

10.  A  Compendium  Speculi  Charitatis. 

1 1 .  A  dialogue  De  Spirituali  AmuAtia,  the  plan  of  which 
arose  from  the  perusal  of  the  treatise  De  Amiciiia  of 
Cicero. 

12.  A  tract  on  the  words  of  the  Evangelist,  cum  /actus 
esset  Jesus  annorum  duodecimo  which  is  sometimes  entitled 
De  duodecimo  anno  Christi.  This  work  and  the  four  pre- 
ceding were  collected  and  printed  at  Douai  early  in  the 
seventeenth  century  by  Richard  Gibbons,  a  Jesuit,  and 
were  reprinted  in  the  Bibliotheca  Patrum. 

*  Vol.  ii.  p.  188. 

t  MS.  Laud,  F.  15. 

X  Hie  finit  chronica  Alredi.    Chron.  Jo.  ab.  S.  Petri,  p.  77. 

VOL.   II.  O 


194  AILRBD   OF   RIfiVAUZ.  [Bom  1109, 

IS.  Liber  de  Inslituiione  Inclusarum^or  the  Rule  of  Nuns. 
This,  being  found  without  the  name  of  the  authot,  was 
printed  among  the  Workii  of  St.  Augustine,  but  it  was  given 
linder  Ailred's  name  in  the  collection  of  monastic  rules  pub" 
lished  by  Lucas  Holstenius.  It  is  enumerated  among  Ail- 
red's  works  in  the  early  catalogue  of  the  Rieraux  Library. 

14.  Ailred  wrote  a  considerable  number  of  homilies 
and  sermons^  some  of  Mrhich  have  been  printed.  Thirty* 
two  of  his  sermons  are  intermixed  with  those  of  St. 
Bernard  in  a  manuscript  at  Lambeth^*  and  twenty-five 
inedited  sermons  of  the  same  writer  were  printed  in  the 
Bibliotheca  Cisterciensium. 

15.  A  latge  collection  of  epistles  by  Ailred  appear  to 
be  entirely  lost. 

16i  His  dialogue  De  Natura  Aninue  is  preserved  in  the 
Bodleian  Library,  MS.  Bodl.  Mus.  52.t 

17.  The  old  catalogue  of  Rievaux  mentions  a  Work  by 
Ailt^ed  entitled  Fasciculus  Frondium. 

TitleiS  of  other  works  ascribed  to  Ailred  are  given  by 
Tanner,  from  Bale  and  others,  most  of  which  appear  to 
be  elthei*  titles  of  single  homilies,  or  given  Wifongly  under 
his  name.  His  rythmical  prose  In  honour  of  St.  Cuthbert, 
a«  well  as  his  "  Epitaph  on  the  Kings  of  Scotland  '*  is 
lost3  unless  the  latter  be  the  prosaic  Chronicon  Itythtnicum 
printed  at  the  end  of  the  Chronicon  of  Mailros,  in  the 
tftdition  by  Mr.  Stevenson.  Among  the  manuscripts  of 
Gains  College,  Cambridge,  according  to  Tanner,  there  is 
a  Version  of  the  Life  of  St.  Edward  in  Leonine  Latin 
ESlegifeics,  ascribed  to  Ailred,  and  commencing  with  the 
line,— ' 

Cam  tibi,  Lanrenti,  cogot  parere  jubenti. 

•  See  Wharton,  Auctuar.  Hist.  Dogm.  Usserii,  p.  403. 
t  A  good  modem  transcript  of  this  work,  from  what  MS.  is  not  stated,  is 
contained  in  the  British  Museum,  MS.  Lansdowne,  No.  209,  fol.  1. 


Died  1166.]  ailred  op  rievaux.  195 

On  account  of  this  poem,  Leyser.  admits  Ailred  into  his 
list  of  medieval  Latin  poets. 

Editions. 

De  probatifl  Sanctomm  HiBtoriiB  .  .  .  Per  F.  Laurentiam  Surium  Carthu- 
siannm.  Tomus  Primus.  Coloni»  Agrippinse,  1570.  fol.  pp.  127 — 138, 
£d7ardi  regis  Vita,  authore  Alredo  Rhieyallo  Anglo,  moDacho  et  abba. 
Tomus  Tertins»  1572.  pp.  577 — 581,  Vita  S.  Margaretse  reginse  Scotiae, 
quam  qaidem  S.  Adelredus  abbas  primo  conscripsiti  sed  hsec,  quam  dos 
edimus,  ab  alio  quodam  incerto  authore,  ex  illo  breyius  descripta  est. 
Vitn  Sanctorum  ex  probatis  authoribus,  &c.  (the  enlarged  edition  of 
Surius).  Tom.  i.  Col.  Agrip.  1617,  pp.  62—78.  Ailred's  life  of  St. 
Edward.  Tom.  III.  lb.  1618.  mens.  Jnn.  pp.  167^170.  The  abridged 
life  of  St.  Margaret. 

Opera  Diyi  Aelredi  RhioTaliensis  quondam  in  Anglia  ex  ordine  Cisterciensi 
abbatis,  et  D.  Bemardi  contemporalis  :  omnia  ope  et  studio  R.  P. 
Richardi  Gibboni  Societatis  Jeau  Theologi,  ex  vetustis  MSS.  nunc 
primum  in  Incem  producta,  Variisque  Lectionibus,  Marginalibus  Cita- 
tionibus,  et  Indicibus  illustrata.  Duaci,  1631.  4to.  This  volume  con- 
tains the  Sermonea  de  Onere  Babylonis,  the  Compendium  Speculi 
Charitatifl,  the  Speculum  Charitatis,  the  treatise  de  Spirituali  Amicitia, 
and  the  Traotatus  super  ETangeliuiD«  cum  factua  esset  Jesus  annorum 
duodecim.    The  first  edition  of  this  collection  was  published  in  1616. 

Magna  fiibliotheca  Veterum  Patrum  .  .  .  Tomus  Decimus  Tertius.  Colonise 
Agrippin«,  1618.  fol.  pp.  1 — 154.  The  works  of  Ailred  reprinted  from 
the  Douai  edition  of  Richard  Gibbon,  with  the  addition  of  a  fragment 
from  the  tract  De  rebus  (/.  regibus)  Anglise. 

Sancti  Bemardi  Claravallensis  abbatis  primi .  .  .  Opera  Omnia,  Luteti» 
Parisiorum,  1640.  coll.  82 — 91*  Dominica  infra  octaTam  Epiphanis, 
Homilia  de  Puero  Jesu  duodeni :  incorrectly  ascribed  to  St.  Bernard* 

Acta  Sanctorum  •  .  .  collegit,  digessit,  notis  illustravit  Joannes  Bollandus 
.  .  .  JanoArius.  AntTBrpi»,  1643.  tom.  i.  fol.  pp.  292 — 302.  Vita 
S.  Edwardi  Confes*  regis  Angl.  auctore  Sancto  Ealredo. 

Historise  Anglicanse  Scriptorea  X ex  vetustis  manuscriptis,  nunc 

primum  in  lucem  editi.  (By  Sir  Roger  Twysden.)  Londini,  1652.  fol. 
coll.  337—346,  Incipit  Descriptio  Viri  Venerabilis  Ethelredi  abbatis 
Rierallensii,  de  hello  inter  regem  ScotisB  et  baronea  AngUe  apud 
Standardum  juxta  Alvertonam.  Coll.  347 — 370,  Ailredi  abbatis  Rievallis 
genealogii^  regum  Anglorum.  Coll.  369—414,  Vita  Sancti  Edwardi  regis 
et  confessoris.  Coll.  415->-422,  Ailredus  abbas  Rievallis  de  Sanctimonial! 
de  Wattun. 

Combesis,  Bibliotheca  Patrum  Condonat  fol.  Paris,  1662,  indicated  by 
Tanner,  contains  the  Homilies  of  Ailred  of  Rievaux. 

Maxima  Bibliotheca  Veterum  Patrum  .  .  .  Tomus  Vigesimustertius.  Lug- 
duni,  1677,  fol.  pp.  1—165.  The  works  of  Ailred  reprinted  from  tha 
Magna  Bibliotheca  Veterum  Patrum»  tom.  13. 

O  2 


196  R^soTNALD  OF  DURHAM.  [Flouris/ied 

Twenty-iiTe  inedited  sermons  of  Ailred  were  printed  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Cisterciensiam,  vol.  v.  p.  162. 

SdDcti  Bernardi  Abbatis  primi  Clars-ValleDsis  vol  amen  II.  continens  duos 
poBteriores  tomos  V.  et  V  I.  .  .  .  Post  Horstium  den  no  recognita,  repur- 
gata,  et  inmeliorem  ordinem  digesta,  tertiis  curis  D.  Jobannis  Mabiilon, 
nova  Editio.  Parisiis,  1719.  fol.  coll.  568—574,  Sermo  ^Iredi  abbatis 
Rievallensis  in  Anglia  Ord.  Cisterciensis,  in  Adventu  Domini»  de 
Undecim  oneribus  IsaiK.  Coll.  590^603,  Tractatus  ^Iredi  abb. 
Rievallis,  de  Jesu  puero  duodenni. 

Lucse  Holstenii  Yaticanae  Basilicae  canonic!  et  Bibliothece  prsefecti  Codex 
Regularnm  monasticarum  et  canonicarum.  Tomus  I.  Augostie  Vin- 
delicorum,  1759.  fol.  pp.  420 — 440.  Beati  ^Iredi  abbatis  Rievallensis 
Regala  sive  Institutio  Inclusarum  ad  Sororem.  The  first  edition  of  this 
work  appeared  in  1663. 


REGINALD  OF  DURHAM. 

This  writer  was  a  monk  of  Durham,  and,  from  the 
circumstance  of  his  being  sometimes  called  Reginald  of 
Coldingham,  it  is  probable  that  he  was  either  a  native 
of  that  place,  or  had  received  there  his  monastic  instruc- 
tion in  the  cell  dependent  on  the  monastery  of  Durham, 
All  we  know  of  him  further  is  that  he  was  the  friend  of 
Ailred  of  Rievaux,  to  whom  he  dedicated  his  book  on 
the  miracles  of  St.  Cuthbert.  In  this  work  he  speaks  of 
the  year  1165  as  occurring  in  his  own  time;  and  he 
alludes  elsewhere  to  events  which  happened  so  late  as 
1173,  but  these  were  probably  added  to  the  original  work, 
which  is  dedicated  to  Aih-ed,  who  died  in  1166. 

Reginald's  work  on  the  miracles  of  St.  Cuthbert  has 
been  printed  by  the  Surtees  Society.  It  is  written  in  the 
ordinary  Latinity  of  his  age,  but  the  style  is  less  dis- 
agreeable than  that  of  most  works  of  a  similar  kind,  and, 
though  distinguished  by  an  extraordinary  degree  of  credu- 
lity, it  is  a  rich  store  of  information  on  the  manners  and 


in  1165.]  REGINALD   OP   DURHAM.  197 

history  of  the  North  of  England  in  the  twelfth  century. 
One  of  these  miracles  furnishes  the  following  description 
of  a  party  of  fishermen  overtaken  by  a  storm^  which  will 
serve  as  a  specimen  of  the  manner  in  which  Reginald 
embellishes  his  narrative. 

Nautee  qaidam,  dum  pacata  eequora  aligero  sulcarent  remigiOi  omnia  pros- 
pera  sapra  qood  optare  potuerant  habuere,  pro  destinato  sui  propositi  desi- 
derio.  Nihil  eis  difficultatis  occurrerat ;  nihil  quod  alicajus  offendicidi  im- 
pedimentum  generare  pnevalebat.  Qui  quandoqne  jocando  laxabant  retia  in 
capturam,  et  piscantes  contrahabant  predse  mnltitadinem  copiosam.  Nego- 
ciandi  qnidem  opus  noverant,  et  tamen  piscatorise  artia  peritiam  pro  libito 
exercebant.  Nam  dam  sereni  aeria  dementia  dabat  spatiandi  locam  sive 
Incri  cujuslibet  emolumentum,  utraque  exercebant  pro  tempore,  et  qussrebant 
victai  necessaria  pro  aenim  et  temporum  moderata  dispensatione.  Tempore 
igitur  isto  secum  ntraque  conduxerant ;  quia  retibus  et  mercibos  hac  -vice 
onerata  naTi  abundabant.  Nempe  siquid  piscandi  laboribus  adqaiaissent, 
tam  ad  esna  sui  cibaria  quam  ad  yendendi  commercia  secum  deportare 
potoissent.  Ad  vicinas  siquidem  regiones  vel  semotas  quandoqae  nayigabant 
pro  Tendendia  negotiationibusy  sire  pro  mercimoniis  comparandis  :  nonnun- 
quam  vero*  sicut  et  modo,  marinis  immorantea  fluctibus,  piscandi  gratia  in« 
sistebant.  Sabito  ergo  mare  tnrbinibus  agitur,  fluctibus  inquietia  pertnr- 
batur,  et  tempestatum  fariis  inquietioa  agitatur.  Flnctns  navim  lateraliter 
impellont  et  rejiciunt ;  nunc  proram  in  aera  extoUantes  erignnt ;  nunc  ad 
maris  infima  in  praecipitio  diducunt ;  modo  puppis  suprema  absorbentes 
alluunt,  nunc  undarum  spumantium  pocula  infundunt.  Frigoris  tamen 
asperitas  tanta  inhorruerat  quod  algentia  membra  nulla  arte  calefacere  prse- 
yalebant.  Vela  tandem  nimiis  temptationum  flabris  dissilierant :  malus  ex 
medio  confractus  concrepuerat,  et  turbinibus  dissipatce  tabulamm  jnncturse 
jam  pene  dissolut»  parebant.  Manus  etiam  in  remigiis  retinendis  jam 
defeceranty  undisque  cum  nimio  ponderis  impetu  supercadentibuSf  de  yiribua 
lascescientium  remigia  ipsa  ex  parte  detraxerant,  partemque  residuam  ipai 
renitentes  detrivendo  confregerant.  Nauta  insuper  armaturam  regiminis, 
qua  navis  disponi  debuerat,  amisit ;  et  navis  sine  gubemaculi  destituta 
solamine,  quocunque  impetus  fluctuum  jactaverat  dissiliebat.  Tunc  omnia 
spes  vitse  ablata  fuerat,  nullusque  nisi  mortis  solius  exitum  de  eis  aliquomodo 
sperare  valebat. 

Reginald  of  Durham  is  said  also  to  have  written^  at  the 
instigation  of  Ailred  of  Rievaux,  and  dedicated  to  Hugh 
de  Pudsey;,  bishop  of  Durham,  the  life  and  miracles  of 
St.  Godric  of  Finchale,  a  copy  of  which  is  in  the  Bodleian 
Library.*    His  other  works,  preserved  in  the  same  col- 

•  MS.  Laud,  E.  47. 


198  HUGH  ABBOT  OF  B^ABiNQ.       [Died  1164f 

lection^*  are  the  Lives  and  Miracles  of  St  Oswald^  ad- 
dressed to  Henry  subprior  of  Durham^  and  of  St.  £bba« 

Bdition. 

Reginald!  Monachi  Dnnelmensis  LibelluB  de  admirandii  Beati  Cnthberd 
Virtutibus  quee  novellis  patrattt  sunt  tempori)»WI«  8to.  Lonclpn,  1835, 
(Edited  by  the  ReT.  James  Raine.) 


HUGH  ABBOT  OF  READING. 

Hugh  abbot  of  Reading  belongs  as  a  writer  to  Nor- 
mandy more  than  to  our  island^  and  we  ought  perhaps  to 
have  placed  him  at  an  earlier  date.  He  was  a  native  of 
France^  had  studied  at  Laon^  and  took  the  monastic  hi^bit 
at  Cluny.t  Ordericus  Vitalis  speaks  of  him  in  a  manner 
which  would  lead  us  to  believe  that  he  was  a  native  of 
Amiens.l  lie  resided  in  England  during  part  of  the  reign 
of  Henry  I.^  whose  favour  he  appears  to  have  enjoyed ; 
and  by  whom  he  was  made  successively  prior  of  St.  Pan- 
eras  at  Lewes^  first  abbot  of  Reading  on  the  15  th  of 
April,  1123,  and  archbishop  of  Rouen  in  1130.  We 
learn,  from  a  letter  which  he  wrote  to  the  pope,§  that 
he  attended  the  death-bed  of  king  Henry  I.  Arch- 
bishop Hugh  died  on  the  10th  of  November,  1164.||    The 

•  MS.  Fairfax,  (Bibl.  Bodl.)  No.  6. 

f  At  the  conclusion  of  his  dedicatory  epistle,  which  precedes  his  seven 
books  of  Dialogues,  addressed  to  Mathew  bishop  of  Alby,  he  says,  Nos 
enim  et  una  generis  consanguinitas  et  ejusdem  professionis  in  Christo  junxit 
Bocietas,  quos  Francia  genuit,  quos  Laudnnense  solum  educavit  et  docuit, 
quos  veste  Christi  Cluniacus  induit. 

X  Orderius  Vitalis,  Hist.  Eccl.  lib.  xii,  sub  fine. 

§  Preserred  by  W.  Malmsb.  Hist.  Noyell.  lib.  i,  p.  178.  Martene,  who 
printed  this  letter  in  his  AmpUssima  Collectio,  states  erroneously  that  it 
related  to  king  Stephen. 

II  See  further  on  this  prelate,  the  Gallia  Christiana,  vol.  i.  p.  580,  the 
Monaaticon,  voL  YI.  p.  30,  and  Tanner. 


J)i€d  1164.]         HUGQ   ABBOT   OF   READING.  199 

work  by  which  he  is  chiefly  known  is  a  treatise  on  theo- 
logy in  seven  books^  written  in  the  form  of  dialogue,  which 
exhibits  much  profundity  of  thought  and  metaphysical 
learning.  From  a  comparison  of  the  manuscripts,  Martene, 
who  published  this  treatise,  was  led  to  believe  that  it  was 
originally  written  while  its  author  was  abbot  of  Reading, 
and  that  it  was  revised  at  a  subsequent  period  of  his  lifa* 
The  following  extract  will  give  some  notion  of  the  manner 
in  which  he  treats  the  theological  questions  which  are 
discussed  in  it, 

Ini,  Tu4  piihi  responsio  placet,  Sed  quomodo  Dens  ubique  est  ?  An 
p«r  singiila  rermn  magni^  vel  minima  diffusiu  partitiuve  est  ? 

Resp.  Scire  debes  quia  Deus,  cum  ubique  est,  non  mole  corporea  vel 
magnitudine  spatiosa  per  ctincta  diffusus  est.  Non  est  enim  minor  in  parte 
qnam  in  toto,  nee  in  toto  quam  in  parte  major ;  sicut  immortalitas  quae  in 
Christo  pnecessit,  et  nobis  in  fine  promittitur»  non  erit  in  aliqna  parte  cor- 
poris majus  vel  minus.  Quantitas  sane  corporis  in  partibus  suis  amplioribus 
amplioF  est,  in  brevioribus  minor.  Qnalit^  verp  corporis,  quK  dicitur  im- 
mortalitas, tanta  erit  in  majoribus  quanta  in  minoribus  subjecti  corporis 
partibus.  Dispar  erit  in  membrorum  magnitudine  quantitas  ;  sed  par  erit 
in  disparibus  qualitas,  dum  una  per  totum  erit  sanitas  vel  immortalitas.  Sed 
diffemnti  mode  qaalitas  hseo  erit  in  oorpore  subjecto,  et  Dens  in  omni  ereate. 
Si  ei^im  sua  qnalitatibus  snbject»  toleris,  qualitates  nusqnam  erunt,  et  ideo 
nee  erunt.  Quemadmodum  si  corpora  spatiis  locorum  auferas,  corpora 
nusquam  erunt ;  et  quia  nusquam  erunt,  nee  ipsa  erunt.  At  vero  Deus  inest 
quidem  rebus,  et  simul  omnibus  totus,  et  in  singulis  totus,  manens  quidem 
ubique  in  se  ipso  totus.  In  se  ipso  dixi :  quia  cum  omne  cui  inest,  sine 
ipso  esse  non  possit,  ipse  non  egens  aliquo,  tanquam  non  possit  esse  sine 
illo,  perfectus  et  beatua  manet  in  se  ipso  solo. .  ■ 

Martene  has  printed  a  life  of  St.  Adjutor  by  this  writer, 
and  two  tracts  on  Memory  and  on  the  Catholic  faith.  He 
was  also  the  author  of  a  tract  on  the  heresies  which  rose 
in  Britany  in  his  days ;  and  there  was  formerly  in  the 
library  of  Christ^s  Church,  Canterbury,  a  letter  of  Hugh 
abbot  of  Reading  to  the  bishop  of  Anjou  on  the  deposi- 
tion or  excommunication  of  priests,  and  another  letter  on 
the  soul  fDe  Anima).  Pits  mentions  other  letters  to 
pope  Celestine  IL  and  to  Peter  of  Blois. 


200  ROBERT  DE  MELUN.  [Died  ifl 


Ediiions, 

Martene,  Thesaurus  Noyus  Anecdotorum,  Tomus  Quintus.  Lutetise  Paris- 
iorum,  1717.  fol.  coll.  891 — 1008,  Hugonis  archiepiscopi  Rotomagen- 
sb  Dialogorum,  seu  Queestionum  Theologicarum,  Libri  VII.  Ex  duobus 
MSS.  uno  Colbertiao,  altero  Rothomagensi  domini  Grebovaldi. 
Coll.  1011 — 101 8|  Vita  Sancti  Adjutoris  monachi  Tironensis,  auctore 
Hugone  arcblepiscopo  Rotomagensi  hujus  nominis  tertio. 

Veterum  Scriptorum  et  Monumentonim  Historicomm,  Dogmaticorum, 
Moralium,  amplissima  coUectio.  Tomus  IX.  Prodiit  nunc  primum 
studio  et  opera  domni  Edmundi  Martene  et  domni  Ursini  Durand. 
Parisiis,  1733.  fol.  coll.  1185 — 1212,  Tractatus  de  Memoria,  complectens 
tres  libroB  in  laudem  memoris,  auctore  Hugone  Rothomagensi  arcble- 
piscopo. Coll.  1211 — 1236,  Hugo  Rothomagensis  archiepiscopus,  Super 
fide  catholica,  et  oratione  dominica.  Col.  1236,  Epistola  Hugonis 
archiepiscopi  Rothomagensis,  ad  Innocentium  papam  II.,  de  obitu 
Stephani  regis  Anglorum. 


ROBERT  DE  MELUN,  BISHOP  OF  HEREFORD. 

Robert  de  Melun  was  a  native  of  England,  who, 
having  been  a  disciple  of  Abelard,  avoided  those  doctrines 
of  his  master  which  were  offensive  to  the  church,  and 
opened  a  school  at  Paris,  where  he  taught  with  great 
reputation.  But  he  subsequently  removed  his  school  to 
Melun,  where  he  continued  long  to  teach,  and  from  this 
circumstance  he  obtained  his  name.*  He  remained  in 
France  from  about  1130  to  1160.  Among  his  scholars 
were  John  of  Salisbury,  John  of  Cornwall,  and  Thomas 
Becket.  By  the  influence  of  the  latter,  Robert  de  Melun, 
who  had  returned  to  England  soon  after  the  date  last 
mentioned,  was  made  bishop  of  Hereford  on  the  22nd  of 
May,  1163.  It  appears  that  he  was  then  advanced  in 
years,  and  he  died  on  the  28th  of  February,  1167. 

*  See  Joh.  Sarisb.  Metalogicns,  lib.  iL  c.  10.  Magistro  Roberto  Mela- 
densi,  ut  cognofnine  desigaetur  quod  meroit  in  scholanun  regimine ;  natione 
siquidem  Angligena  eat. 


11670  ROBERT  DE  MELUN.  201 

Robert  de  Melun  was  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
metaphysicians  of  his  age,  and  has  been  praised,  perhaps 
more  than  he  deserves,  for  the  elegance  of  his  diction. 
After  quitting  the  school  of  Abelard,  he  became  one  of 
the  leaders  of  the  realists,  and  his  disciples  formed  a  sect 
which  was  long  known  by  the  name  of  Robertines.  They 
established  their  school  on  the  summit  of  the  mountain 
of  St.  Genevieve,  and  appear  in  the  sequel  to  have  shown 
a  leaning  towards  nominalism.  Godefroi  of  St.  Victor,  who 
wrote  a  curious  rhyming  poem  on  the  philosophical  sects 
of  his  day,  of  which  extracts  are  given  in  the  Histoire 
Xitteraire  de  France,*  speaks  of  the  Robertines  with  con- 
siderable asperity. 

Heerent  saxi  vertice  tarbee  Robertin», 
Sazese  doritise  vel  adamantins, 
Qnos  nee  rigat  pluvia  neque  ros  doctrinee : 
Vetant  amnis  aditum  scopulorum  minte. 

Ipsi  falsum  litigant  nihil  sequi  vere ; 
Quamvis  tamen  ipsimet  post  hos  abiere 
Qui  de  solo  nomine  fingunt  mille  fere : 
Igitur  pro  nihilo  licet  hos  censere. 

Tlie  work  by  which  Robert  de  Melun  was  chiefly  known 
is  a  profound  metaphysical  treatise  on  the  nature  of  God, 
angels,  and  man,  of  the  soul,  of  man^s  state  and  position 
before  and  after  the  fall,  and  of  his  redemption.  It  bears 
sometimes  the  simple  title  of  SententuBy  and  at  others  is 
entitled  Summa  Sententiarumy  or  Summa  Theohgue. 
There  was  a  good  manuscript  in  the  library  of  St.  Victor 
at  Paris,  from  which  Du  Boulay  printed  very  extensive 
extracts  ;t  and  a  good  copy  of  the  latter  part,  and  an 
abridgment  of  the  whole,  are  preserved  in  the  British 

*  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  vol.  xv.  p.  83.    An  article  on  Robert  de  Melun  will 
be  found  in  the  same  work,  vol.  ziii.  p.  371* 
t  Bolieitfi  Hist.  Univ.  Parifl,  yol.  ii.  pp.  585—^28. 


202  BOBS  AT  PB  Mi;LyN,  \piedin  1167« 

Museum**  The  following  brief  chapter  will  convey  to 
the  rei^der  some  notion  of  the  style  ^nd  cbftnicter  of  hi« 
work }  it  is  taken  from  the  first  division  or  book  of  tb9 
Museum  MS.|  which  appeitrs  to  have  be^n  the  twelfth  of 
the  whole  work : 

c.  zxv.     QtfO(f  homo  nihil  hahet  commune  eum  gpiritibu»  caUsfibuSf  «t 
iwium  eti  corpu»  «r  miima  ei  a^me  een^ponium. 

9i  oBim  ipmm  corpus,  quod  hominein  erap  obloqnvatar,  ntioBalo  esfi 
et  sapieptum  ethiiicomm  et  chriftianoram  orthodoxorum  omniB  distlnctio 
quam  de  hominis  natnris  faciunt  vana  et  falsa  esse  comprobatur.  Aiunt 
eiiim  homineio  nataraiq  oorpoream  eum  animalibus  irradonalibus  habere 
oQmmunem,  wd  naturam  incorpoream  oum  spiiitibus  eoeleatibus.  Q,vm 
distinctio  vaua  et  fedsa  ei^t,  si  homo  tantum  corpus  est.  ^am  si  bomo 
tantum  corpus  est,  et  ipse  id  solum  est  quod  cum  animalibus  brutis  com- 
mune habet.  Hoc  autem  si  unum  est,  quod  esse  oportet  si  tantum  corpus 
est  homo,  vana  et  cassa  distinctio  est  quam  constat  ab  omnibus  de  sub- 
stantiis  hominis  fieri.  Omnes  enim  hominem  unam  lui  partem,  id  est  cor- 
poream  substantiam,  cum  brutis  animalibus  dieunt  habere  communem, 
alteram  vero  sui  partem  cum  spiritibus  oeeleatibua,  id  egt  animam,  habet 
indifferentem.  Quare  enim  hujuspiodi  distinetio  fiacta  sit  de  substantiis 
hominis  nulla  causa  esse  videtur,  cum  et  ipse  homo  ejus  solum  sit  naturae 
cujus  iUa  ejus  pars  est  quam  cum  brutis  animalibus  habet  communem.  Quod 
namque  totum  cum  parte  habet  commune  non  toti  attribuendum  sic  est, 
ut  a  parte  tollatur,  nee  quod  pars  cum  toto  babet  commune,  parti  sic  est  con- 
ferendum,  quod  a  toto  removeatur.  £t  ideo  si  compositum  ex  anima  et  cor- 
pore  corpus  est,  pro  nihilo  distinctio  facta  est,  quae  hominem  quandam  partem 
8ui  dicit  habere  communem  cum  brutis  animalibus,  aliam  yero  cum  spiritibus 
ooelestibns.  Nam  non  solum  quandam  sui  partem,  id  est  corpus,  quod  cum 
anima  oo^junotum  ipsum  homiuem  constituent,  oum  brutia  auimalibua  habet 
communem,  quia  etiam  ipsum  copipositum  ex  anima  et  corpore  si  ipsum 
corpus  est,  in  quantum  corpus  est  cum  brutis  animaUbus  communis  natarse 
est.  Et  ideo  distinctio  de  partibus  hominis  facta  est  oasaa  et  Tana,  si  ex 
corpore  et  anima  compositum  solum  est  corpus. 

Du  Boulay  ascribed  wrongly  to  this  prelate  a  Poenitential 
which  was  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the  library  of  St 
Victor.  Robert  de  Melun  has  been  frequently  confounded 
with  Robert  Losinga^  and  sometimes  with  Robert  Foliot^ 
bishops  of  Hereford, 

*  The  portion  of  the  work  Itself  In  MS.  Reg.  7  C.  11.  and  the  abridgement 
in  MS.  Reg.  7  F.  XIII. 


203 


WILLIAM  OP  PETERBOROUGH. 

All  we  know  of  this  writer  ia  that  he  waa  ft  monk  of 
Ramsey^  that  he  waa  a  learned  theologian  and  gram- 
marian, and  that  his  works  were  long  treasured  up  in  hia 
abbey,  of  which  he  was  remembered  as  a  bright  ornament 
aa  late  aa  the  time  of  Leland.  He  ia  said  to  hare  flou- 
rished in  1168.  Wood  pretenda  that  he  atudied  in  the 
univeraity  of  Oxford.  The  titlea  of  his  worka,  preserved 
in  the  bibliographical  catalogue  of  Boston  of  Bury,  were 
DUtinciUmM  Theoloffica,  in  one  book;  two  volumes  of 
Homilies;  one  of  Commentaries  on  the  Song  of  Solo- 
mon ;  EupkrasHea,  or  expositions  of  some  of  the  more 
diflicult  passages  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  in  a  hundred 
chapters  i  a  work  entitled  Liber  Partium ;  and  interpreta- 
tions of  Scripture  names.  The  Euphrastiea  is  still  extant 
in  a  manuscript  in  the  Bodleian  Library,*  apparently  the 
same  which  Leland  saw  at  Ramsey. 


THOMAS  BECKET,  ARCHBISHOP  OP 

CANTERBURY. 

The  life  of  this  remarkable  man  belongs  rather  to  poll* 
tical  than  to  literary  history ;  he  appears  to  have  exercised 
but  little  direct  influence  on  the  literature  of  his  country^ 
and  his  only  claim  to  a  place  among  English  writers  seems 
to  rest  upon  a  collection  of  his  letters  chiefly  relating  to 

*  MS.  Bodl.  Super  A.  1,  «t.  44. 


204  THOMAS  BECKBT.  [Died  1170. 

the  political  aiFairs  in  which  he  was  engaged^  which  are 
said  to  have  been  first  arranged^  with  a  great  number  of 
letters  by  other  persons^  in  four  books,  by  John  of  Salis- 
bury. The  father  of  Becket  was  a  merchant  of  London, 
who  had  married  a  Saracen  damsel,  and  their  connection 
was  the  subject  of  an  interesting  story  or  legend.  Thomas 
was  bom  in  London  in  1119;  he  received  his  first  educa- 
tion from  the  prior  of  Merton,  and  afterwards  studied 
at  Paris.  Theobald  archbishop  of  Canterbury  sent 
him  subsequently  to  Bologna,  to  study  the  canon  law. 
By  the  friendship  of  this  prelate,  and  afterwards  of  king 
Henry  II.,  he  went  through  a  series  of  rapid  promotions 
until  he  was  elected  archbishop  of  Canterbury  in  1162. 
His  subsequent  disputes  with  his  former  benefactor,  and 
the  circumstances  which  led  to  his  murder  on  the  29th  of 
December,  1 1 70,  are  detailed  in  every  history  of  England. 
He  was  canonized  in  1173. 

The  only  writing  attributed  to  Thomas  of  Canterbury, 
besides  his  epistles,  is  a  Latin  hymn  to  the  Yii'gin,  com- 
mencing with  the  words  Gaude  flore  virginaliy  which  is 
fomid  in  manuscripts.  His  epistles  are  written  in  a  good 
style,  and  are  strongly  characteristic  of  the  violence  of 
character  which  marked  his  political  history.  The  follow- 
ing is  the  commencement  of  a  letter  to  Robert  Foliot 
bishop  of  Hereford,  one  of  the  prelates  who  remained 
firm  to  the  party  of  the  king : 

Si  litene  nostrse  fratemitatis  tase  excitavere  soUicitudinem,  utinam  nee 
affectu  desidem  reperissemy  nee  eirca  officii  suscepti  effectum  minus  vigilem. 
Elegl  ego  abjectus  esse  anathema  pro  omnibus  vobis,  opprobrium  hominum 
et  abjectio  plebis,  ne  Tiderem  mala  sanctorum,  et  dissimularem  injuriam 
gentis  nostrsBi  ezpectaos  si  quis  forte  ex  omnibus  Yobis  zelans  legem  Dei, 
ecclesise  libertatem  saltem  affectans,  exiret  post  me  et  yeniret,  et  non  dare- 
mus  comua  peccatoribus.  Et  ecce  tu,  quern  credebam  mihi  a  Domino 
datum  esse,  ut  mecum  »dificares,  eyeUeres,  et  plantares,  propinas  mihi  sti- 
mulum  in  ruinam,  solatium  in  desolationem,  prtedicans  humiiiationem,  immo 
dqectioDem,  aimanciftiia  bonum  cum  undique  sit  turbatio»  in  pemiciem 


Died  after  1171.]  wage.  206 

ecclesise  et  clericorum.  £t  cum  deberes  aninii  Tacillantis  formare  constan- 
tiam,  sustinere  mecum  congressum  ad  defendendum  patrimonium  crucifixii 
et  reprimendos  et  expugnandos  hostes  eccIesisBy  instillare  auribus  meis, 
inspirare  animo  meo.  ut  ob&ecrarem  instantius,  argaerem  arctius,  et  incre- 
parem  durius.  Qaod  si  me  non  audierit,  ezclamare  certe  debueras  oontr^i 
me :  Exsurge,  quare  obdormis  ?  Exere  gladium  beati  Petri,  vindica  san- 
guinem  servorum  Cbristi,  qui  effusas  est,  injurias  ecdesise,  que  in  nobis  et 
nostris  fiant  tota  die.  Exciditne  a  memoria  tna,  quantis  sim  afflictoa 
iDJuriis,  quibus  contumeliis  affectus,  cum  in  persona  mea  contra  omnem 
autboritatem,  contra  omnem  juris  formam,  itemm  judicaretur  Christns  ante 
tribunal  principis  ?  Non  revoco  certe  ad  animum  proprise  personse  inju- 
riam,  etsi  ecclesi».  Attende  diligentius,  arctius  in  corde  repone,  quid 
ageretur  ante  exitum  meum,  quid  in  exitu,  quid  postea,  quid  etiam  agatur 
singulis  diebus  in  terra  ilia  circa  Dei  ecclesiam  et  ejus  ministros.  Qua 
animi  conscientia  dissimulare  potes  tu,  de  quo  sperabatur,  quod  esses 
redempturus  Israel,  a  servitute  liberaturus  ecclesiam  ?  Et  nunc  qui  tanto 
tempore  tacuisti,  doleo  super  te,  frater,  till  mi  primogenite.  Timeo  ne  suc- 
cedat  tibiy  qui  toUat  tua  primogenita,  et  auferat  primogeniti  benedictionem : 
quod  absit  a  te. 


Edition. 

Epistolse  et  Vita  Divi  Tbomae  martyris  et  archlepiscopi  Cantuariensis.  Nee 
non  Epistolae  Alexandri  III.  Pontificis,  Gallise  Regis  Ludorid  Septimi, 
Anglise  Regis  Henrici  II.,  aliarumque  plurium  sublimium  ex  utroque 
foro  personaram :  concernentes  Sacerdotii  et  Imperii  concordiam :  in 
lucem  productie  ex  MS.  Vaticano :  opera  et  studio  F.  Cbrlstiani  Lupi, 
Iprensis.  Bruxellis,  1682.  4to. 

Tanner  mentions  a  previous  edition  of  the  Epistolae  with  the  Life  (the 
Quadrilogus),  printed  at  London  in  149«^. 


WAGE. 

Wage  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  Anglo-Norman 
poets  of  the  twelfth  century,  and  (partly  from  accidental 
circumstances)  he  has  obtained  a  much  greater  reputation 
in  modern  times  than  any  of  the  others.  Some  errors 
have  arisen  from  not  observing  that  the  name  is  merely 


206  WAOB.  [Died 

the  vernacular  form  of  the  Latin  Eustaciu^,  and  from  pre- 
suming him  to  be  related  to  other  persons  of  the  same 
name  mentioned  in  early  documents."*^  All>  indeed^  that 
we  know  of  Wace*s  personal  history  is  derived  (as  in  the 
case  of  so  many  other  eminent  men  of  letters  or  Bcience) 
from  the  account  he  gives  of  himself  in  his  own  writings. 
He  tells  us  that  he  was  bom  in  the  isle  of  Jersey^  that 
when  a  child  he  was  carried  to  Caen^  where  he  was 
put  to  school,  that  he  afterwards  studied  during  a  length 
of  time  in  France,  and  that,  after  his  retium^  he  resided 
long  at  Caen,  and  employed  himself  in  writing  in  Romans 
(or  in  the  French  language).  Subsequently,  as  his  repu- 
tation as  a  poet  increased^  King  Henry  IL  gave  him  a  pre* 
bend  at  Baieux.f  In  other  places  Wace  informs  us  that 
he  had  seen  the  three  king  Henries,  Henry  I.,  his  grand- 
son Henry  II.,  and  the  son  of  Henry  II.,  who  was  crowned 
while  his  father  was  alive,  and  that  he  was  a  reading  clerk 
fckrc  lisantj  in  the  time  of  all  these  three  kings.J  We 
must,  therefore,  place  his  birth  early  in  the  twelfth  century. 
He  informs  us,  at  the  end  of  his  Roman  de  Brut,  that  that 
poem  was  completed  in  the  year  1155,§  immediately  after 
the  accession  of  Henry  IL  to  the  throne.  The  poem,  at- 
tributed to  Wace,  entitled  the  Ascending  Chronicle,  states 

*  Our  poet  has  been  called  Robert  Wace,  and  Matthew  Wace,  and 
Richard  Wace.  The  first  of  these  names  arose  out  of  a  singular  misappre- 
hension of  the  language  of  the  poet,  who  tells  us,  at  the  end  of  his  life  of  St. 
Nicholas,  that  he  composed  that  poem  at  the  request  of  Robert  son  of  Tiout, 
or  Fitz-Tiout : 

A  Toes  Robert  le  fitz  Tiout, 
Qui  taint  Nicholas  mult  amout. 

Which  Httet,  in  his  Origines  de  Caen,  read  as  though  it  had  been  Robert  h 
fit  toutt  or,  Robert  made  it  all^  and  applied  it  to  the  poet  himself. 

t  Roman  de  Rou,  ed.  Pluquet,  toI.  ii.  p.  95. 

X  Roman  de  Rou,  ed.  Pluquet,  vol.  i.  p.  272,  and  voL  ii.  p.  408. 

§  Roman  de  Brut,  ed.  Le  Roux  de  Lincy,  vol.  ii.  p.  298. 


diftef  1171.]  WACB.  807 

that  Watse  composed  the  Aoman  de  Rou  in  11  GO;  but 
this  cannot  be  strictly  tttie^  foir  he  alludes  to  the  translation 
of  the  body  of  duke  tUchard  II.  to  the  abbey  of  Fesdatnp^^ 
which  took  place  in  1161^  and  the  young  prince  Henry,  of 
whose  coronation  he  speaks,  was  crowned  in  the  year  1170« 
It  is  therefore  more  probable  that  the  Roman  de  Rou 
was  completed  about  the  year  1171«  He  appears  to  have 
ended  his  task  in  disgust,  because  king  Henry  had  ordered 
another  poet,  Benoit,  to  write  the  history  of  the  Normans ) 
and  Wace  seems  at  this  time  to  have  been  advanced  in 
years  and  fallen  into  neglect.  He  complains  that  the  king 
had  made  him  promises  which  he  had  not  fulfilledf.  We 
have  no  information  relative  to  the  date  of  his  death,  but 
he  probably  did  not  long  outlive  the  completion  of  his 
most  celebrated  poem.  Wace  appears  to  have  passed 
nearly  his  whole  life  in  Normandy ;  he  belongs  to  English 
literature  chiefly  by  the  subjects  of  his  principal  poems, 
though  his  use  of  English  words,  and  various  allusions 
contained  in  his  writings,  would  lead  us  to  believe  that  he 
was  not  a  stranger  to  our  island. 

Wace^s  first  great  undertaking  was  a  translation  into 
Anglo-Norman  verse  of  the  newly  published  British 
History  of  Geofirey  of  Monmouth,  under  the  title  of  lA 
Romans  de  Bruty  which  extends  to  upwards  of  fifteen 
thousand  lines.  In  this  poem  Wace  sometimes  translates 
his  original  very  closely,  at  others  he  paraphrases  it  with 
considerable  amplification 85  and  here  and  there  he  adds  an 
incident  taken  from  his  own  imagination  or  from  popular 

*  Roman  de  Ron,  vol.  i.  p.  370» 

t  Li  reis  jadia  maint  bien  me  fist» 
Mult  me  dana,  plus  me  pramist ; 
E  se  il  tot  dun^  m'^ust 
Go  k'il  me  pramiit,  mielx  me  fVist : 
Ne  r  poiz  aveir,  ne  plout  al  rei, 
Mail  n'eat  mie  remez  en  mei. 


208  WAGE.  IDied 

traditions  and  legends  which  he  gathered  in  Britany.  In 
this  respect  chiefly  Wace's  translation  is  of  value,  because 
he  was  certainly  acquainted  with  the  legendary  lore  of  the 
country  from  which  the  original  materials  of  Geoffrey's 
history  are  said  to  have  been  brought.  In  some  of  his 
poetical  amplifications,  Wace  rises  much  above  the  arid 
style  of  the  mere  metrical  chronicler.  There  is  vigour  in 
the  following  picture  of  the  wrestling  between  Corineus 
and  the  giant  Gogmagog : 

Bras  k  bras  sunt  al  lniter  pris, 
Bras  ont  desus  et  desos  mis. 
Es-les-TOUB  ensamble  jost^s, 
Pis  contre  pis,  1^  contre  l^s  ; 
Par  derier  les  dos  s'embrachierent, 
Et  par  air  los  mains  lachierent. 
Dont  yeissi^  tor  contre  tor, 
Vigor  metre  contre  vigor, 
£t  pi^  avant  et  pi^s  ariere, 
Et  engin  de  mainte  maniere. 
Tornent  de  91V  tornent  de  U, 
Chescun  fu  fors,  si  s'aira  ; 
Des  poitrines  s'entrebotoient. 
Et  des  gambes  loins  s'afor^oient, 
A  la  foie  s'asambloient 
Si  que  tot  droit  k  mont  estoient ; 
Dont  les  T^ist-on  bien  sner, 
Et  des  n^s  froncher  et  sofler ; 
Faces  noircir,  iels  roellier, 
Sorcils  lever,  sorcils  baissier, 
Dens  treskigner,  color  mner, 
Testes  froier,  testes  hurter. 
Bouter  et  sacher  et  empaindre, 
Lever,  soufascher,  et  estraindre, 
Baissier,  et  derchier,  et  esmer, 
Et  gambes  faire  et  tost  tomer. 
A  la  hance  i  ot  maint  tor  fait, 
Et  sofascid  et  k  mont  trait ; 
Cascuns  voloit  Paltre  soprendre, 
Et  se  penoit  de  Ini  desfendre. 

The  Roman  de  Rou  (or  of  Rollo)  contains  nearly  seven- 
teen  thousand  lines.     It  comprises  a  history  of  the  Nor- 


aftet  1171.]  WACE.  209 

mans  from  their  first  settlement  in  Normandy  to  the 
battle  of  Tinchebray  in  1106^  and  is  divided  into  two 
parts.  The  first  part  commences  in  the  same  short  metre 
in  which  the  Roman  de  Brut  is  written ;  but  when  Wace 
comes  to  the  invasion  of  Rollo  he  suddenly  adopts  the 
long  metre^  with  many  consecutive  rhymes,  of  the  early 
romances,  and  continues  to  use  it  during  the  rest  of  this 
part  of  the  poem,  i.  e.  down  to  the  reign  of  duke  Richard 
I.  The  following  character  of  duke  Richard  is  given  as  a 
specimen  of  this  part  of  the  work  : 

Richart  sont  en  Daneiz  [e]  en  Normant  parler ; 
Li  poil  aveit  anqes  rons,  le  tIs  apert  e  der ; 
L'altrui  sont  e  li  8uen  bien  prendre  e  doner ; 
Une  chartre  sout  lire,  e  li  parz  deviser, 
Li  pere  Pout  bien  fet  duire  e  dontriner. 
De  tables  e  d'eschez  sout  oompaignon  mater ; 
Bien  sout  paistre  nn  oisel  e  livrer  e  porter ; 
En  bois  sout  oointement  e  bereer  e  yener  ; 
As  talevas  se  sont  bien  conyrxr  e  moler, 
Mestre  pi6  destre  avant  e  entre  d'els  dobler ; 
Talons  sout  remuer  e  retraire  e  noxer, 
Saillir  deverz  senestre  e  treget  tost  geter : 
C*est  un  colp  damageuz  ki  ne  s'en  seit  garder» 
Mez  Ten  ne  s'i  deit  mie  lungement  demorer. 

With  the  second  part,  Wace  returns  to  the  shorter 
metre,  which  is  continued  through  the  rest  of  the  poem. 
In  the  earlier  portion  of  his  history  of  the  Normans, 
Wace  compiles  chiefly  from  William  of  Jumieges  and 
Dudo  of  St.  Quentin,  adding  from  time  to  time  curious 
details,  of  the  sources  of  which  we  are  ignorant.  His 
knowledge  of  the  local  legends  of  Normandy  and  Britany, 
to  which  he  seems  to  have  been  attached,  gives  him  his 
greatest  importance  in  the  eye  of  the  historian.*    Thus, 

*  I  think  the  editor  of  the  Roman  de  Brut,  in  giying  Wace  the  credit  of 
wishing  to  discriminate  between  the  true  and  the  false  in  the  British  History 
(Analyse,  p.  33),  has  misunderstood  the  lines — 

Les  teces  Artnr  tous  dirai, 

Noiant  ne  tous  en  mentirai.  It 

YOL.  II.  P 


210  WACE.  [Died 

for  some  incidents  of  the  history  of  William  Longue» 
esp^e^  he  refers  to  the  authority  of  the  people  of  F^eatnp, 
and  at  the  same  time  he  tells  us  that  in  his  childhood  he 
had  heard  the  jogleurs  or  minstrels  chaunt  episodes  of 
ike  history  of  the  Normans : 

Entende  cil  ki  m'ot,  si  me  (kce  esoolter ; 

Jo  ne  die  mie  fable,  ne  jo  ne  yoil  fabler ; 

TeitiBttigne  m'en  pot  cil  de  Fesoam  porter. 

La  gette  est  grande,  lunge»  e  grieve  k  tramUter, 

Mez  Ten  me  porreit  bien  mon  engien  aviver. 

Mult  m*e8t  douz  U  trayail,  quant  jo  kuid  cunqneater ; 

Li  Normans  e  lor  gestes  m'eaCnet  avant  mener* 

A  jngleora  oi  en  m'effanoe  chanter 

Ke  Willame  jadia  fiat  Oamont  eaaorber,  &c. 

And^  when  he  digresses  to  speak  of  the  wonders  of  the 
forest  of  Brecheliant  in  Britany^  he  tells  us  that  he  had 
visited  the  spot  in  search  of  the  marvellous^  but  in  vain  : 

hk  alai-jo  merveiUefl  querre, 
Vis  la  forest  e  vis  la  terre  ; 
MerveiUes  quis,  maiz  ne*s  trovai ; 
Fol  m*ea  revins,  fol  i  alai» 
Fol  i  alai,  fol  m*en  revina, 
Folic  quisy  por  fol  me  tins. 

The  manner,  however,  in  which  he  here  speaks  of  himself 
seems  to  absolve  him  from  too  much  credulity.  In  the 
part  of  his  history  subsequent  to  the  Norman  invasion  of 
England,  Wace  becomes  so  valuable  an  authority  that  we 
have  reason  to  regret  that  he  did  not  continue  his  history 
down  to  the  time  at  which  he  wrote.  As  a  poet,  he  is 
more  remarkable  for  naivete  of  description  than  for  lofti- 
ness of  sentiment  or  beauty  of  style* 

In  addition  to  the  two  great  poems  already  described, 
three  other  pieces  bearing  the  name  of  Wace  are  preserved. 

It  is  the  mere  usual  assertion  of  the  truth  of  the  hiatory,  in  which  the  poet 
of  course  believed. 


after  1171.^  waob.  211 

two  at  least  of  which  are  certainly  of  his  composition. 
These  are^ 

A  metrical  life  of  St.  Nicholas,  which  is  found  in  several 
manuscripts,  both  in  England  and  on  the  continent. 

A  poem  on  the  establishment  of  the  Festival  of  the 
Conception  of  our  Lady,  (which  was  formerly  known  as 
the  Feste  aux  Normans^  by  an  abbot  of  Ramsey  in  the 
reign  of  William  the  Conqueror. 

A  metrical  genealogy  of  the  dukes  of  Normandy,  intitled 
La  CTironique  Ascendante  des  Dues  de  Normandiej  which  M. 
Michel,  in  his  Introduction  to  the  edition  of  Benoit,  con- 
jectures to  have  been  written  by  another  person,  about 
twenty  years  after  the  time  of  Wace,  under  that  poet's 
name.*  Indeed  it  appears  to  give  a  wrong  date  to  the 
composition  of  the  Roman  de  Rou.f 

All  these  poems  have  been  printed.  We  have  no  rea- 
son for  believing  that  Wace  wrote  anything  else ;  and  it 
was  only  by  misunderstanding  a  passage  of  the  Roman  de 
Rou,  in  which  its  author  speaks  in  general  terms,  that 
the  abb^  de  la  Rue  was  led  to  attribute  to  him  '^  a  crowd 
of  romances  '^X  as  well  as  lais  and  serventois.§ 

SdiHom, 

Mimoiret  de  la  Soeiit^  des  Antiquaires  de  la  Normandie,  torn.  i.  Rouen, 
1825.  8yo.  second  part,  pp.  444->447.  The  Chroniqtt^  Aicendanti 
de9  Duct  de  Normandie,  edited  by  M.  Plaquet. 

Le  Roman  de  Ron  et  des  Dues  de  Noimandie,  par  Robert  Wace,  poite 
Normand  da  xii*  si^le  ;  pnbli^  ponr  la  premiere  foisi  d*aprd8  les  manu- 


*  Michel,  Introduction  to  Benoit,  p.  zy. 

t  It  is  jnst  possible  that,  as  M.  de  la  Rue  thinka,  the  first  part  of  the 
Roman  de  Rou  was  written  in  1160,  and  the  second  part  at  a  sabseqnent 
period,  althongh  his  chief  argument  for  this  supposition,  that  Wace  wrote 
the  second  part  in  rivalry  to  Benoit,  is  not  sound. 

\  Cette  fonle  de  romans.  M.  de  la  Roe,  Des  TrouT^res,  &c.  toI.  ii.  p.  149. 

(  M.  de  la  Rue,  ib.  p.  180. 

p2 


212  RADULPH   DE   DUNSTABLE,   AND      [FTouHshed 

scrits  de  France  et  d'Angleterre  ;  avec  des  notes  pour  seryir  k  rintellL- 
gence  du  texte,  par  Fr^^ric  Pluqaet.    Rouen,  1897.  2  volt.  8to.* 

An  edition  of  the  Life  of  St.  Nicholas  has  been  printed  for  the  Soci^t6  des 
Bibliophiles  Fran^ais,  by  M.  de  Monmerqu^. 

Le  Roman  de  Brut,  par  Wace,  po^te  da  zii".  Si^cle ;  public  pour  la  pre- 
miere fois  d'apr^s  les  manuscrits  des  Biblioth^ques  de  Paris,  ayec  un 
Commentaire  et  des  Notes,  par  Le  Roux  de  Lincy.  Tom.  I.  Rouen, 
1836.  Tom.  11.  ib.  1838.  8vo.  With  a  Description  des  Mannscrita, 
published  separately. 

L*£tablissement  de  la  F^te  de  La  Concepcion  Notre-Dame  dite  la  FSte  auz 
Normands,  par  Wace,  trouvdre  Anglo>Normand  du  zii*.  si^de,  public 
pour  la  premiere  fois  d*aprds  les  manuscrits  de  la  Biblioth^ue  du  Roi, 
par  MM.  6.  Mancel  et  G.  S.  Trebutien.    Caen,  1842.  8vo. 


RADULPH  DE  DUNSTABLE  AND  WILLIAM  OF 

ST.  ALBAN'S. 

The  first  of  these  writers,  who  is  known  by  a  Latin  me- 
trical life  of  St.  Alban  and  St.  Amphibalus,  in  two  books, 
is  called  by  some  Robert ;  but  we  have  the  direct  testimony 
of  John  de  Whethamstede,t  and  of  an  apparently  trust- 
worthy writer  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Alban^s  in  the  fourteenth 
century,  (who  enumerates  him  among  the  worthies  of  that 
house,  and  who  tells  us  that  his  poetry  was  equal  to  that  of 
Virgil,)  that  his  name  was  Radulph.^  Radulph  de  Dunsta- 
ble was  a  monk  of  St.  Alban's  about  the  middle  of  the 
twelfth  century,  as  it  is  supposed,  for  there  are  consider- 
able difficulties  in  fixing  his  exact  date.  Bale  and  others 
placed  his  death  in  1151,  but  they  confound  him  with  the 

*  This  book  should  be  accompanied  with  the  Observaiiont  philotogiquti 
et  grammaticaUt  sur  le  Roman  de  Ron  by  M.  Raynouard,  8vo.  1829.  M. 
Pluquet  has  published  in  8yo.  18S4,  h  Notice  eur  la  Vie  et  Its  Berite  de 
Robert  Waee, 

t  Jo.  Whethamstede,  Granar.  cited  by  Tanner. 

X  Radalphus  de  Dunstaplia  non  impar  Maroni  floruit,  qui  scripsit  metrice 
vitas  sanctorum  Albani  et  Amphibali.  MS.  Cotton.  Claud.  E.  iv.  fol. 
339,  v'.  Tanner  has  entered  this  writer  as  three  persons  under  the  three 
heads,  Dunstable  (Robertits  de);  Radulphus  fani  Jibani  wonaehut:  and 
Radulphue  de  Dunetaplia, 


11?0.]  WILLIAM   OP   8T.   ALBAN^S.  213 

abbot  Radulph  de  Gubiun.  He  wrote  his  life  of  St.  Alban 
at  the  request  of  another  monk  of  the  same  house,  named 
William,  who  had  written  on  the  same  subject  in  prose, 
and  who  died  before  Radulph  had  completed  the  first  book 
of  his  metrical  work.  A  copy  of  William's  prose  life  of 
St.  Alban  is  preserved  in  the  Cottonian  Library.*  Bale 
says  that  this  writer  flourished  in  1170,  which  appears  to 
have  been  nothing  more  than  a  conjecture.  The  book  is 
dedicated  to  Simon,  who  was  abbot  of  St.  Alban's  from  1167 
to  1188,  and  who  is  represented  as  a  patron  of  literature ; 
but  in  a  manner  which  would  seem  to  indicate  that  it  had 
been  written  some  time  previous  to  his  being  raised  to  that 
dignity.  William  states  that  his  book  was  merely  a  trans- 
lation from  an  English  life  of  the  saint,  perhaps  frota  one 
of  the  Anglo-Saxon  homilies,  with  the  exception  of  one 
circumstance  taken  from  the  History  of  the  Britons  by 
Geoflrey  of  Monmouth.  This  preface  is  brief,  and  will 
serve  as  a  specimen  of  this  author's  style : 

Reyerendo  patri  et  Domino  karissimo  Symoni  Willelmiu  ia  Domino  salu- 
tem.  Cum  liber  Anglico  sermone  conscriptns,  passionem  beati  martyris 
Albani  continensi  ad  Testram  notitiam  penreniaset,  ut  earn  verbis  Latinis 
exprimerem  prBcepistia.  Ego  vero  Tobis  non  obedire  nefas  eziatimansy 
dicto  pami,  non  tamen  ex  aliqua  prsesomptione,  sed  ne  contemni  jubentis 
auctoritas  yideretur.  Qood  opus  nomini  testro  credidi  consecrandum,  non 
inveniens  cni  magis  oris  mei  primitias  offerrem  qnam  Domini  sacerdoti. 
Siquid  minus  Latino  forte  sonnerit  apad  doctas  aures,  interpretem  novum 
obedientia,  quge  Tiribus  pleramqne  majora  prsesnmit,  excusabit  Sciendum 
aatem  quod  hnic  operi  beati  clerici  nomen  adjecerim,  quod  non  in  libro 
quem  transfero,  sed  in  historia  quam  Gaufridus  Arturus  de  Britannico  in 
Latinum  se  yertisse  testatur,  inyeni.  Sed  ne  yerborum  prolixitas  homini 
displiceat  occupato,  restat  nunc  qualiter  auctori  operis  sui  prsefationem  diri* 
gat  audiatnr. 

In  the  manuscript  this  life  is  followed  by  an  account  of 
the  posthumous  miracles  of  the  two  saints,  and  by  a  history 
of  the  discovery  of  their  bodies  in  1178,  which  appear, 

*  MS.  Cotton.  Faustina,  B.  iv.  According  to  Tanner,  there  is  another 
MS.  of  this  work  in  the  library  of  Magdalen  College»  Oxford. 


214  RADULPH  Ds  DUV8TABL8.     [Flourished  1170. 

by  their  difference  of  style,  to  have  been  written  by  ano* 
ther  (a  later)  author.  We  may  probably  place  WiUiam'a 
deathi  and  the  composition  of  the  poem  by  Radulph  de 
Dunstable,  in,  or  soon  after,  the  year  1170. 

Ralph's  poem  is  contained  in  two  manuscripts  in  the 
British  Museum,  the  earliest  of  which*  is  less  complete 
than  the  later  eopy.t  Leland  calls  this  writer  poeta  non 
etmtemnendus  ;  and  his  work  tersum,  canarumy  et  rotundwn 
opus;  but  his  verses  hardly  support  the  eulogy  given  him 
by  the  anonymous  writer  of  the  fourteenth  century  quoted 
above.  In  the  following  }Hrologue  be  addresses  his  poem 
to  the  monk  William : — 

Albani  oelebren  ooelo  tenriiqua  tiittapkvm 

Raminftt  incoUo  carmine  Clio  nidis. 
Ardoa  res  poscit  pectus  studiumqae  Maronis  : 

Nob  Maro  sum  fateor,  sed  neqae  Godrus  ego. 
Non  acie  mentis,  non  «rtis  Inoeo  cnltn, 

Ut  metrioe  martyr  martyris  esse  queam. 
Martyris  interpres  me  martyris  ire  poetam 

Tqi  Willelme,  mihi  dux  stimnlasqne  dea  | 
Quern  de  barbarie  veteri  noTitate  Latina 

EvolTis,  Terstt  me  recitare  Tolens. 
Qui  cnpis  Amphibali  fortis  sublime  tropbKum, 

Quod  socias  prosa,  me  sociare  metro. 
Allegans  quod  eos  fidei  ichola  foedere  piimo, 

Et  nunc  consorti  nectat  honore  polus. 
Me  plus  discipulo  doctorem  carmine  pulsat 

Jungere,  quod  jungat  me  tibi  pignns  idem. 
Hoc  me  compellit  ad  quod  petis  et  magis  urget 

Quolibet  imperio,  quod  piuf  orat  amor. 
Sis  igitur  clipeusi  plus  auso,  panpere  vena, 

^acidc  Chiron  non  mihi  tendo  chelim. 

This  poem  is  not  a  mere  translation  from  William's 
prose,  as  Radulph  adds  circumstances  not  found  in  the 
original,  and  considerably  amplifies  the  text.  In  the  first 
book  he  introduces  Amphibalus  discoursing  at  some  length 
on  the  scripture  history,  commencing  with  the  creation 

*  MS.  Cotton.  JnttttSy  D.  iii. 
t  MS.  CottOB,  Cliradiuf,  B.  it. 


HimrkAed  1170.']      john  of  Cornwall.  215 

and  ending  widi  the  passion  of  Christ.  The  following 
description  of  paradise  will  serve  as  a  further  specimen  of 
the  style  of  this  poem : — 

lUe  locvB  thaiamns  raqmei*  regia  pacu, 

Theca  voluptatis,  Ijetitiseqae  sinos. 
Tatus  et  assidausy  spectabilis  atqae  salnber, 

Temperie,  forma,  fertilitate,  sita ; 
Quern  sic  eoua  vertex  levat  ut  nisi  dactu 

Iliac  divino  scandere  nemo  quest. 
Fractifer»  semper  nova  dant  ibi  germina  virM, 

Qaas  Tsga  qaadrifidi  semita  fontis  alit. 
lUic  se  yeris  spectantes  mutuo  nati 

Alternant  vultos  conficiuntque  suos. 
Nil  illic  tonitru  nnbes»  nil  turbine  yenti, 

Nil  SBstas  lestu,  nil  nive  bruma  potest. 

There  appears  no  reason  for  attributing  to  Radulph  de 
Dunstable  the  anonymous  poems  which  follow  in  the 
earlier  manuscript  of  his  Life  of  St.  Alban,  from  which 
they  diflfer  entirely  in  style  and  character. 


JOHN  OP  CORNWALL. 

John  of  Cornwall^  so  named  probably  from  the  district 
in  which  he  was  born^  is  said  by  Leland  to  have  studied 
at  Rome,  and  elsewhere  in  Italy,  but  Leland  gives  no  au- 
thority for  this  statement ;  it  appears  more  certain  that 
he  had  been  a  disciple  of  Peter  Lombard  and  Robert  de 
Melun,  in  France.  We  know  nothing  further  of  the  per- 
sonal history  of  John  of  Cornwall.  He  is  generally  con- 
sidered as  haying  flourished  in  11 70.  His  most  remark- 
able work,  written  to  controvert  some  theological  doctrines 
of  Peter  Lombard,  Abelard,  and  others,  relating  to  the  hu- 
manity of  Christ,  belongs  to  one  of  the  prominent  contro- 
versies of  his  time ;  it  generally  bears  the  title  of  Eulo- 
gium,  and  is  addressed  to  Pope  Alexander  III.  It  has 
been  supposed  that  this  book  was  published  in  1169  or 


216  JOHN*  OF  CORNWALL.     [Flourished  11^ 0. 

1170.*  Peter  Lombard  replied  to  this  attack  with  consi- 
derable asperity,  although  the  doctrines  against  which  it 
was  directed  had  been  formally  condemned  in  the  council 
of  Tours  in  1163.  The  Eulogium  of  John  of  Cornwall  is 
not  uncommon  in  manuscripts  :  the  following  passage  of 
the  Prologue  shows  the  spirit  in  which  it  was  written : 

In  TnroneDsi  concilio  quod  dadum  convocatis  plerisqae  omnibos  tain 
Anglicanse  quam  Gallicanae  pnelatis  ecclesiK  autoritate  vestra  celebratum  est 
et  praesentia  illustratam,  dogma  quonimdam  asserentiam  quod  Christos  no  a 
est  aliqois  homo,  et  quod  Christus  secundum  quod  homo  non  est  quid,  dis- 
pntando  ventilari  coopit.  Utra  yero  pars  dispute ntium  in  pugna  verborum 
pnevaluerit  nescio,  sed  tarn  iniquam  et  fidei  ChristiaDse  inimicam  falsitatem 
in  tali  ac  tanto  Christi  auditorio  nuUis  credo  fuisse  veritatis  aut  victoriK 
titulis  insignitam.  Noluit  tamen  tam  dives  et  copiosa  mansuetudinis  vestrse 
dementia  assertionem  illam  statim  canonica  ferire  censura,  ne  ejus  auctores 
et  defensores,  qui  forte  non  pertinacia  sed  ignorantia  deliquerant,  Tel  ipsa 
condemnatio  pravitatis  tantum  invoWeret,  vel  perpetuam  eis  iufamis  notam 
impingeret.  Ex  eadem  vero  mansuetudine  vestra  multo  postmodum  temporis 
sustentationis  elapso,  etiam  quadam  epistola  decretali,  quae  super  arroga- 
tionem  pravae  illius  doctrinse  ad  Tenerabilem  Guillelmum  tunc  Senonensem 
hodie  Remensem  archiepiscopum  legitur  directa,  nequaquam  exprimitur 
anathemate  percussos  vel  etiam  percellendos  esse,  qui  errore  ilium  tenere 
sen  docere  prsssumerent.  Quoniam  itaque  iniiniti  scholares  hoc  calice 
debriati  et  in  fiirorem  versi  usque  in  hodiemum  diem  patientia  vestra  con- 
tumaciter  abutuntur,  qui  nequaquam  misericordise  yestrae  piam  dispensati- 
onem  laudant,  sed  impium  dogma  velut  catholicum  prasdicant ;  fiat  tandem 
iUud  Prosperi  quod  in  Decretis  legitur. 

John  of  Cornwall  had  previously  written  a  shorter  tract 
on  the  same  subject,  which  has  been  erroneously  inserted 
among  the  works  of  Hugo  de  St.  Victor  under  the  title 
Apologia  de  ChrisH  incarnatione. 

Another  treatise  by  this  writer,  who  appears  to  have 
enjoyed  considerable  reputation  as  a  theologian,  is  found 
in  a  manuscript  at  Cambridge^f  with  the  title  Summa 
magistri  Johannis  Cornubiemis  qualiter  fiat  sacranietitum 
altaris  per  virtutem  sancta  cruets,  et  de  septem  canonibus 
vel  ordinibus  missa.  The  old  bibliographers  have  made 
three  separate  books  of  this  title,  and  attribute  to  the  same 

•  Hist.  Lit.  de  Pr.  torn.  xiv.  p.  197. 

t  MS.  CoU.  Corp.  Chr.  Cambridge,  No.  459. 


Flourished  lllOJ]      oervasr  op  Chichester.         217 

writer  one  or  two  other  works,  for  the  titles  of  which  there 
appears  to  be  no  authority. 

EdiiUm. 

Thesaurus  Notus  Anecdotorum,  Tomus  Qointus.  Prodit  nunc  primum 
stadio  et  opera  domni  Edmundi  Martene  et  domni  Ursini  Durand. 
Lutetue  Parisiorum,  1717,  fol.  coll.  1655 — 1702.  Eologiom  magistri 
Johannia  Comubiensis  ad  Alexandrum  papam  III.  qaod  Christas  sit 
aliquis  homo.  According  to  Fabriciasy  the  Eulogium  of  John  of  Corn- 
wall was  also  printed  among  the  works  of  Hugo  de  St. Victor,  toI.  III. 
p.  399. 


GERVASE  OP  CHICHESTER. 

Gervase,  who  probably  took  his  cognomen  from  the 
place  of  his  birtli^  was  one  of  the  learned  men  collected 
together  by  Thomas  Becket^  of  whom  he  was  a  staunch 
partizan^  although  he  did  not  follow  him  in  his  exile.  We 
are  informed  that  he  was  then  young  ;*  so  that  Bale  and 
Pits  place  him  somewhat  too  early  when  they  say  he 
flourished  about  A.  D.  1160.  The  work  by  which  Gervase 
is  chiefly  known  is  a  "  commentary  on  the  prophecy  of  Ma- 
lachi^  on  the  duties  of  the  priesthood/'  in  thirteen  books^ 
of  which  there  is  a  good  manuscript  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum.t  In  the  following  rhyming  verses,  prefixed  to  the 
book  in  this  manuscript,  he  informs  us  that  he  had  also 
written  a  life  of  Thomas  Becket,  as  the  model  of  a  good 
priest,  and  that  he  was  then  advanced  in  years : 

Vernta  Gervarii. 
Proxima  confectom  senio  me  fata  vocabant, 
Nee  tamen  a  stadio  manus  affectusqne  vacabant. 

— — I 1 I       t.- ■— ■— M — ■ • — — — ~ ■ 1 m  -t^M-  -  J   I  J   _ 

*  The  tract  entitled  Catalogus  Eruditorum  Beati  Thorn»  Martyris,  printed 
at  the  end  of  the  Qnadrilogus,  gives  ns  the  following  account  of  Gervase : — 
Post  hnnc  Genrasios,  similiter  sicat  nationci  at  cognomine  Cicestrensis, 
juvenis  certe  tunc  sicnt  in  moribosi  et  in  literamm  scientia  oommendabilis. 
Venim  nee  iste,  cum  nee  Tocaretnr,  patriam  egressns  est. 

t  MS.  Reg.  3B.X.  Super  Malachiam  prophetami  de  ordinis  sacerdotalis 
instructione» 


^^^^r . 


Ex  hinc  aggrediens  OM«l|g  ^nflj^o^lam, 
Ethiciu  ezplicai  peiploca  libl9lClAC^*e ; 
In  quo  JQfltiti»  Tarios  diasemuiQ  flom, 
Atque  aacerdotam  diatortoa  dingo  mores ; 
Cone  penrigilia  pastoribua  bnpiimo  formam, 
Ordinia  et  juris  sectandam  profero  nonnam. 
Hia  Yultus  ruttlos  Yirtutum  pingo  figuris. 
His  facies  faedas  vitiomm  sculpo  litoris. 
Presbyter  aut  prsesnl  qoa  se  Tirtnte  decoret, 
Quid  doceat,  celebret,  quid  agat,  quid  sedalos  or«t, 
Quo  zelo  reprobos  feriat,  jostos  adamajido 
Confoyeat,  deno  temoque  yolumine  pando. 

Ad  nora  post  animo  laadam  precoma  flezOf 
Pontificis  TbomB  yitam  meritumqiie  retexo  ; 
Meque  coegit  amor  cui  yiyo  yiyus  adhssi, 
Martyiis  interitum  gladiis  describen  cmd, 
Qnem  yelut  appositam  prselatis  inspicieadam» 
Pastoris  ligidi  formam  describo  tenendam ; 
Aaperitaa  Ttstia,  solidse  conatantiA  mcntia, 
Ezilii  damnum,  feritas  contampta  potentis, 
Lictomm  gladiis  ceryix  oblata  cmentia, 
In  gremio  matris  yirtus  erecta  cadentisi 
Bzoussnm  oerebnim  saBgnisqne  per  atris  mm«Mr 
Copia  signorumt  languorum  miUa  sanans» 
Omnia  pastori  fiunt  exempla  regendi, 
Ne  cadat  a  cora  cogente  metn  moriendi. 
Attendaa  igitur»  paator»  mea  scripta  legendo» 
Ut  qnalem  doceo  sis  talis  oyila  regendo. 

licland  Bpeak»  of  having  seen  a  book  of  Homilies^  and 
a  commentary  on  the  Psalma  of  David^  by  Gervase  of 
Chichester  i  a  homily  on  the  sanctity  of  the  sacerdotal 
order^  and-  another  in  praise  of  St,  John  the  Baptisty 
follow  his  commentary  on  Malachi  in  the  manuscript  in 
the  British  Museum. 


ROGER  OF  HEREFORD. 

RooBR  OF  Hbebford  was  a  mathematiciaii  of  oon« 
siderable  note^  but  we  are  quite  ignorant  of  his  personal 


1170.]  ROGER   09   SBRKFORD.  219 

history.  Such  of  his  writings  as  are  preserved  do  not 
appear  to  possess  much  importance.  They  are  found 
chiefly  in  the  Bodleian  Library  at  Oxford,*  under  the 
tides  TTieorica  Planetarum ;  De  Quatuor  Partibus  JudtcH 
Astronomue  in  four  books ;  De  Ortu  et  Occa9t(  Signorum ; 
De  Rebus  Metallicis,  Leland  mentions  another  work  by 
Roger,  entitled  CoUectaneum  Afinorum  Omnium  Plane^ 
tarum,  written,  as  he  informs  us,  at  Hereford  in  1170. 
A  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum  contains  an  astro- 
nomical table  by  Roger  of  Hereford,  with  a  brief  intro- 
duction, in  which  it  is  stated  to  have  been  composed  ''for 
midnight  at  Hereford,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  1178,  after 
the  eclipse  which  happened  at  Hereford  in  the  same 
year.^^t  It  is  clear  from  these  notices  that  Roger  lived 
and  made  his  observations  at  Hereford ;  and  he  appears 
to  have  been  a  follower  of  the  Arabian  sciences,  for  in  the 
introduction  to  the  table  just  mentioned  he  apologises  for 
using  the  Christian  year  and  the  Roman  months,  '*  because 
the  years  and  months  of  the  Arabs  are  difficult  to  our 
people,  who  are  not  accustomed  to  use  them.'':^  Bale 
further  ascribes  to  Roger  of  Hereford  a  work  entitled 
Eucpositionea  JElphidii,  which  is,  perhaps,  merely  the  trea- 
tise of  Alphidius,  De  Creatione  Metallorum,  found  by 
Leland  in  the  same  manuscript  which  contained  the  tract 
of  Roger  of  Hereford,  De  Rebus  Metallicis. 

*  The  references  to  them  will  be  found  in  Tanner,  who  has  followed 
Leland  in  makinf  two  separata  artides  of  Rogeri  uder  the  titles  Ro^enu 
HenqfbrtenM  and  Bogtrut  Herrfordm, 

t  Compositi  a  magistro  Rogero  snper  annos  Domini  ad  mediam  noctem 
HerefordiR  anno  ab  incamatione  Domini  M^.  c*.  Izx^.  viij*.  post  ediprim 
quae  contigit  Herefordi»  eodem  anno.  MS.  Arundel,  No.  377,  fol.  86,  t^. 

X  Maluimus  enim  htec  qnam  annos  Arabum  et  eorom  menses  propter 
difficultatem  sequi»  eo  quod  innsitati  sint  H»ud  nottnutei.  MS*  Anind,  ib« 


220  ALFRED.  [Flourished  1170. 


ALFRED. 

Alfred^  who  by  some  writers  is  named  the  Philosopher, 
is  enumerated  by  Roger  Bacon  among  those  who  had 
translated  the  Arabian  books  of  science  into  Latin.*  Pits, 
partly  on  the  authority  of  Boston  of  Bury^  tells  us  that 
he  wandered  in  search  of  learning  through  France  and 
Italy^  and  that  at  Rome  he  was  received  into  the  family 
of  Cardinal  Ottoboni,  who  made  him  his  chaplain,  and 
brought  him  to  England  when  he  was  sent  as  legate  by 
pope  Urban  IV.  to  make  peace  between  Henry  III.  and 
his  barons.  This  however  cannot  be  correct,  for  one  of 
Alfred^s  principal  works,  the  translation  (from  the  Arabic) 
of  Aristotle's  treatise,  De  Vegetabilibus  et  Plantis^  is  dedi- 
dicated  to  Roger  of  Hereford,  whose  contemporary  he 
must  have  been.  In  the  manuscripts  of  this  book,  pre- 
served in  the  Bibliotheque  Royale  at  Paris,  the  author  is 
sometimes  named  simply  Magister  Alfredus,  and  at  others 
Alfredus  de  SarcheLf  M.  Jourdain  states  reasons  for  be- 
lieving that  this  work  was  translated  in  Spain.  Pits  men- 
tions the  titles  of  several  other  books  attributed  to  him, 
most  of  which  are  still  extant :  they  are 

1.  De  MtisicUf  of  which  he  gives  as  the  first  words. 
Licet  mihi  inter  meditandum. 

2.  In  Boethium  de  Consolatione  PhilosophuBy  in  five 
books,  not  now  known  to  exist. 

3.  In  Meteor  a  Aristotelis,    This  is  preserved  in  a  ma- 

*  Alii  vero,  qui  infinita  in  Latinum  conyerterant,  ut  Gerardus  Cremo- 
nensisy  Michael  Scottus,  Aloredus  Anglicus,  HennannuB  Alemannus.  Bacon, 
de  Utilitate  Linguarum,  cited  by  Joardain. 

t  See  Jourdain,  Recherches  critiques  sur  les  Traductions  d'Aristote^ 
p.  106. 


Flourished  W^ 4.]      Jordan  fantosme.  221 

nuscript  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris,  where  the  author's 
name  is  corruptly  spelt  Alphiohia. 

4.  De  Rerum  Natura.  M.  Jourdain  believes  this  to  be 
the  treatis  De  Causia  Elementorum,  which  is  found  in  most 
of  the  manuscripts  joined  to  the  translation  of  Aristotle 
De  FegetabilUmSy  and  clearly  resembles  it  in  style. 

5.  De  Motu  Cordis.  M.  Jourdain  thinks  this  may  be 
the  same  as  a  short  treatise,  evidently  translated  from  the 
Arabic,  which  is  found  under  the  same  title  in  a  MS.  in 
the  Royal  Library  at  Paris,  MS.  Lat.  No.  6443. 

6.  Leland  mentions  a  treatise  by  this  writer  (or  some 
person  of  the  same  name)  De  Educatione  Accipitrutn,  Per- 
haps the  Aluredus  Anglicus  mentioned  by  Boston  of  Bury 
as  cardinal  Ottoboni's  chaplain,  and  as  the  author  of  the 
treatise  on  music  and  the  commentary  on  Boethius,  was  a 
different  person  from  the  philosopher. 


JORDAN  FANTOSME. 

Jordan  Fantosme,  if  we  may  judge  from  his  book,  was 
an  Anglo-Norman,  and  not,  as  it  has  been  supposed,  an 
Italian.  He  appears  to  have  been  spiritual  chancellor  of 
the  diocese  of  Winchester,  under  bishop  Henry  de  Blois. 
On  the  10th  of  April,  1160,  Richard  de  Anesly,  engaged 
in  a  protracted  law- suit,  found  Jordan  with  the  bishop  at 
Fareham  near  Portsmouth.*  Jordan  Fantosme  was  pre- 
sent in  the  north  of  England,  when  that  district  was  in- 
vaded by  the  Scots  under  William  the  Lion  in  1173  and 
1174;  and  he  subsequently  wrote  an  account  of  this  war 

*  Et  inveni  episcopum  apud  Ferham  juzta  Portesmue,  et  inde  mecum  re- 
duxi  magistrum  Jordanum  Fantafima  et  Nicholaum  de  Chandos,  qui  testifi- 
carent  Yiva  voce  quod  episcopus  ante  testilicaverat  per  breve  suum.  Palgrave, 
liise  and  Progress  of  the  English  Commonwealth,  vol.  i.  part  S^  p.  lxxviii« 


322  JORDAN  FANTOSMS.  IFhufiihed 

in  Anglo-Norman  verse.  About  this  period  we  find  him 
described  as  a  master  in  the  schools  at  Winchester^  and 
as  enjoying  an  absolute  jurisdiction  over  them^  which  had 
been  infringed  by  another  ^  clerk '  of  Winchester  named 
John ;  who  had  opened  a  school  at  Winchester  without 
having  obtained  a  licence  from  him.  The  cause  between 
them  was  tried  before  the  celebrated  John  of  Salisbury^ 
who  decided  in  favour  of  Jordan  Fantosme,  and  enjoined 
his  opponent  to  close  his  school  on  pain  of  excommunica- 
tion.* We  have  no  information  as  to  the  date  of  Jordan's 
death. 

Jordan's  historical  poem  is  extant  in  two  manuscripts, 
preserved  in  the  cathedral  libraries  of  Durham  and  Lin- 
coln«  It  commences  with  the  dissension  between  Henry 
II.  and  his  son  in  11 73^  and  ends  with  the  defeat  and 
capture  of  William  the  Lion  king  of  Scotland  in  1174. 
It  is  not  long,  extending  only  to  2,071  lines ;  but,  as  a 
historical  document,  it  is  full  of  interest,  and,  as  a  literary 
composition,  it  is  equal  to  the  best  production  of  the 
Anglo-Norman  trouvdres  of  his  age.  It  is  composed  in 
the  same  long  lines,  with  a  multitude  of  consecutive 
rhymes,  which  distinguish  the  older  metrical  romances, 
and  of  which  we  have  had  examples  in  Guischard  de 
Beaulieu  and  Thorold.  The  naive  manner  in  which  Jor- 
dan Fantosme  relates  the  events  of  the  war,  is  especially 
pleasing ;  as  our  readers  may  judge  by  the  following  de- 
scription of  the  arrival  of  the  messengers  who  brought  to 
king  Henry  the  first  intelligence  of  the  final  defeat  of  the 
Scots  and  capture  of  their  king : 

Id  reii  etteit  entr^  en  aa  chambre  demeine, 

Quant  le  message  Tint ;  snfFert  ot  molt  grant  peine : 


*  This  information  is  given  in  a  letter  of  John  of  Salisbury,  Epist.  zix. 
p.  94,  which  is  printed  in  the  preftice  to  M.  Michel's  edition  of  the  poem, 
p.  zzKvii* 


1174,]  JOBDON  »ANT68ME.  223 

II  n*ot  bea  ne  mangi6  treb  jon  de  la  semeine, 
Ne  gnmeiUi^  del  oil  par  lanoyele  oerteiiie; 
M^s  de  jon  e  de  nuiz  d'errer  Be  peine : 
II  ad  fait  mult  que  sage,  il  aorad  bone  estreinOi 

li  reia  iert  acnt^  e  on  poi  tunellla, 
Un  yadlet  k  sea  pies,  ki  snef  lea  grata ; 
N'i  «at  noiae  ne  ori»  ne  nnla  n'i  parla, 
Harpe  ne  Tiele  nul  d'ure  n'i  anna, 
Ouant  li  mla  Tint  al  ub  e  snef  apela. 
E  dk  U  ohamberieni :  <•  Ki  eatea-vni  U?" 
"  Meaaagier  aui,  aania  ;  or  Tenes  ploa  en  9k. 
Dan  Randulf  de  Glannle  deaqne  d  m'enyeia 
P«r  porler  one  le  rei,  kar  grant  meatier  en  a." 
fi  dit  H  ohaBBberlena  :  '*  Par  matin  aett  TaCdra/' 
«  Par  ma  fei  I"  d^at  U  m^a,  **  ains  i  parlerai  en  eire. 
Mun  seignar  ad  el  oner  e  dolnr  e  contraire : 
ft  me  laiaaiex  «ntreTi  ehamberleng  debonaire." 
E  dit  li  chamberlena :  '*  Ne  I'oaereie  paa  faire. 
li  reia  est  endormiz :  ariere  tub  estnt  traire." 

A  $0  qn'fl  parolent  s'est  li  reia  eBTeilliez, 
B  oid  4  o«l  na  oiiar,  **  Oyrea!  oTrtt  1" 
**  Ki  eat  «o  ?*'  diBt  U  reia,  <<  &  dire  me  sachiex." 
**  Sire,"  diat  li  chamberlens,  ''ore  endreit  le  sanrei. 
MeaBage  eat  de  9I1  nort,  tr^  Men  le  eannlBaies, 
Hnmo  Bandnlf  de  Olanvile  $  Brian  eat  apelas." 
«  Par  ma  fei  V*  diat  li  reia,  **  ore  Bni  mult  treapenaei : 
11  ad  meatier  d*aTe,  9aenz  yenir  le  laisaiez.** 
Li  aMMAgier  entrad.  Id  mult  Aid  enaeigniet, 
£  aalua  le  rei,  cam  ji  oTr  purres : 
"  Sire  rei,  Deu  yu8  aalt  qui  maint  en  Trinitex, 

Vostre  cora  en  ayant,  e  puia  tus  yos  priyez  t** 

«  a  •  • 

A  tant  eat  li  meaaage  k  aun  ostel  al£, 

A  mangier  e  k  beiyre  en  ad  ik  grant  plenty. 

B  li  reia  eat  ai  ties  la  nnit  e  ai  haiti^, 

Qn'il  yint  aa  ckeyalien,  ai*8  ad  tns  eayeilli^ : 

Baruns,  eayeilliez-yua :  bor  yua  fud  anniti6. 

Tele  cbose  ai  oTe  dunt  jo  yua  frai  haiti^ : 

Pria  eat  li  reia  d'Eacocey  90  m*ad  Tem  dit  pur  yerti» 

Ore  aiss  me  yint  noyele,  quant  dui  estre  culchi£.*' 

BdUUm. 

Chronicle  of  the  War  between  the  Engliah  and  the  Scota  in  1173  and  1174, 
by  Jordan  Fantoame.  Now  fint  publiahed,  with  a  translation,  an  intro- 
d«ction,  notes,  and  an  appendix,  by  Franciaqae  Michel.  8yo.  Lou* 
don,  1840.    (Published  by  the  Surtees  Society.) 


224  ODO  OF  KENT.  [Flourished 


ODO  OF  KENT,  AND  OTHERS. 

Odo  of  Kent  was  one  of  the  intimate  friends  of 
Thomas  Becket^  and  of  John  of  Salisbury^  and  is  men- 
tioned with  expressions  of  great  esteem  by  the  latter 
writer.*  He  appears  first  in  history  in  11/2,  as  prior  of 
Canterbury,  when  he  distinguished  himself  by  a  protracted 
resistance  to  the  attempts  of  the  crown  to  usurp  the  right 
of  electing  the  archbishop.f  In  1175,  he  was  made  abbot 
of  Battle,:!:  and  in  the  time  of  Leland  a  handsome  marble 
tomb  marked  the  place  of  his  burial  in  the  abbey  church. 
He  died  on  the  20th  or  21st  of  January^  but  the  year 
appears  to  be  doubtful;  some  placing  his  death  in  1176, 
while  better  authorities  appear  to  fix  it  in  1199  or  1200, 
at  which  date  he  must  have  been  an  old  man.§  As  a 
writer,  however,  Odo  belongs  to  the  reign  of  Henry  II. 
A  letter  from  him  to  a  person  named  Adam,  whom  he  had 
sent  to  France  to  study  philosophy,  but  who  had  retired 
from  the  world  to  enter  the  monastery  of  Igny,  has  been 
printed  by  Mabillon,||  and  does  not  convey  a  very  favour- 
able opinion  of  his  judgment.  It  would  be  difiicult  to 
clear  entirely  the  writings  of  Odo  of  Kent  from  the  con- 
fusion in  which  they  have  been  involved  by  ascribing  to 
him  books  written  by  other  persons  of  the  name  of  Odo ; 

*  See  the  EutheticuSf  11. 1675|  et  seqq. 

t  Gervase  Dorob.  ap.  Decern  Script,  col.  1432.  Rad.  de  Diceto,  ib. 
col.  568. 

X  Had.  de  Dicet.  col.  588.  An  account  of  the  circumstances  attending 
this  promotion  is  given  in  the  last  edition  of  the  Monasticon,  vol.  iii.  p.  235. 

§  See  Tanner,  p.  559.  The  Monasticon ,  loc.  cit.  and  Wharton,  Angl. 
Sac.  vol.  I.  p.  138. 

II  Analecta,  torn.  I.  p.  349.  Epistola  ad  Adamum  Igniacensem  quendam 
fratrem  novitiam, 


in  1175.]  ODO   OF   KENT^   AND   OTHERS.  225 

but  they  seem  to  have  consisted  chiefly  of  commentaries 
on  the  Holy  Scriptures^  and  of  sermons.  In  a  manu- 
script of  the  fourteenth  century  in  the  British  Museum 
some  monastic  compiler  has  arranged  in  one  series  the 
homilies  of  John  of  Abbeville,  Odo  of  Kent^  and  Roger  of 
Salisbury,  on  the  Sunday  Gospels  throughout  the  year,* 
without  indicating  which  belonged  to  each  particular 
writer,  and  they  resemble  each  other  so  much  in  style 
and  manner  that  it  does  not  seem  possible  to  distinguish 
them.  They  all  present  one  characteristic  which  is  much 
less  common  in  the  writers  of  sermons  at  an  early  date, 
the  frequent  illustration  of  the  subject  by  short  stories  or 
fables,  some  of  which  are  totally  irrelevant.  The  follow- 
ing example  is  taken  at  random  :t 

Qnidam  reZ|  ut  dicitur,  gloriam  mundi  diligens,  fecit  paTimentum  aula 
suee,  sedilla,  ac  parietes  cortinis  pretiosis  cooperiri,  mensam  vero  mappa 
aureisque  vaaia  et  argenteis  fecit  ornari.  Sapiens  autem  quidam,  cum  inter 
cooYivas  esset  inyitatus,  et  ad  mensam  regis  sederit,  circumspexit  nndique 
ubi  competentius  posset  spuere.  Et  cum  videret  omnia  loca  omamentis 
cooperta,  conspuit  in  barbam  regis.  In  quern  statim  servi  regis  circum- 
stantes  manns  injecerunt.  Rex  autem  non  sine  ratione  sapientem  hoc  fecisse 
autumans,  sevitiam  serrientium  repressit;  et  sedatis  omnibus  quBsitnm 
est  a  philosopbo  cur  hoc  Yel  sic  fecissit.  Quibus  ille  respondit ;  Cortinas, 
inquit,  et  vasa  pretiosa  intuens,  non  yidi  locum  meliorem  quam  barbam  regis 
pinguedine  ciborum  perunctam^  et  ideo  in  illam  conspueram.  Sic  et  tn,  si 
stndiose  corpus  tuum  adornaveris  in  prasenti,  cum  hiis  omnibus  in  morte 
spoliatus  fueris,  dsmones  fsetido  sputo  et  calido  in  faciem  tuam  conspuent 
in  inferno.  Ne  ergo  glorieris,  homo,  in  pulcritudine  aliqtta,  cum  lilia  agri 
pulcriora  te  sint,  nee  in  fortitudine  tua,  cum  asinus  fortior  te  sit;  nam 
majus  onus  fert  asinus  ad  molendinum  quam  homo  fortissimus. 

Leland  mentions  Odo's  Epistles,  his  book  de  Moribus 

• 

*  MS.  Arundel,  No.  331,  in  2  vols.  Homeliae  magistri  Jobannis  de 
Abbatisvilla,  magistri  etiam  Odonis  de  Cantia,  et  magistri  Rogeri  de  Saris- 
biria.  At  the  end,  Expliciunt  morales  expositiones  magistri  Jobannis  de 
Abbatisvilla,  magistri  etiam  Odonis  de  Cantia,  et  magistri  Rogeri  de  Saris- 
biria,  in  unum  compactee  super  Evangelia  dominicalia  per  totum  annum. 
Manuscripts  of  the  sermons  of  Odo  of  Kent,  separate  from  the  others, 
appear  to  be  preserved  at  Oxford. 

t  MS.  Arund.  No,  331,  vol.  11.  fol.  50,  r». 
VOL.  II.  Q 


22^  Qoo  QW  KVNTi  ANO  OTQEBit      [FJourUhed 

Eeokria9tici9i  and  his  treatise  in  three  books  4^  V%tii9  ^ 
Virtuiibua  AnimtBy  the  latter  of  which  he  believes  was  dedi- 
cated to  Thomas  Becket.  Some  letters  printed  in  the 
Spicilegium  of  D'Acherius  under  the  name  of  Odo  are 
supposed  to  belong  to  Odo  of  Kent. 

Contemporary  with  Odo  of  Kent  lived  Odo  de  C|- 
BiNOTON,  a  writer  whose  history  is  involved  in  obscurity, 
but  who  is  known  as  the  author  of  a  curious  collection  of 
Esopean  fables,  with  moralizations,  which  were  much  used 
by  the  Romish  preachers  in  subsequent  ages.  The  ear- 
liest manuscript  of  this  book  appears  to  be  one  preserved 
in  the  Arundel  library  in  the  British  Museum  i  *  later 
copies  are  generally  much  enlarged.  The  name  is  variously 
spelt,  Ciringtonia,  Syrentona,  Ceritona,  &c.  Some  mo- 
dern writers  have  called  him  Odo  de  Shirton.  The  fol- 
lowing fable  will  give  a  notion  of  the  character  of  the 
book,  which  is  written  in  a  very  unpolished  style : 

J>e  icrabone  et  usare  nut, 

Scrabo  volans  per  patriam  transiTit  per  palcherrimas  arbores  florentes,  et 
per  pomeria  etrosas  et  lilia,  in  locis  amoeDissimis,  tandem  projecit  se  in  ster- 
qailinium  ubi  erant  stercora  eqaoram,  et  invenlt  ibi  nxorem  suam,  qnse  qun- 
sivit  node  veniret.  Et  ait  scrabo»  Circuivi  terrain  et  transYolayi  earn :  ridi 
floreg  amigdalarum  et  liliorum  et  rosarum,  sed  nunquam  vidi  ita  locum 
amoenum  sicat  iste,  demonstrato  sterquilinio.  ^  Sic  pleriqne  clerici,  mona- 
cbi,  laici,  audiunt  yitas  patrum,  transeunt  per  lilias  conTallium,  per  rosas 
martyram,  per  Tiolas  confessorum,  sed  nunquam  videtur  eia  ita  placidum  et 
ita  amoenum  sicut  meretrix,  sicut  taberna,  sicut  ezercitium  cantuumi  quod 
eet  sterquilinium  foetid um  et  congregatio  peccatorum.  Ideo  dicitur  in  Eccle» 
aiaatico  ix.  Omnia  mulier  quae  est  fornicaria,  sicut  stercus  in  via  conculca- 
bitur.  Maledictus  et  in  naturali  talis  scrabo,  talis  impius,  cui  plus  sapit 
stereos  peccati  quam  Christus,  loca  diaboii  quam  ecclesia  Dei,  stercora 
arundlnum  quee  exciecant  oculos  eorum  quam  Titas  et  exempla  sanctorum. 

This  book  has  sometimes  been  attributed  to  Odo  of 
Kent ;  and,  if  the  sermons  mentioned  above  be  really  the 
work  of  that  writer,  the  similarity  of  style  between  (he 

*  MS.  Arundel,  No.  292,  fol.  18.    Nanationei  msgifltri  d€  Ciringtoiua. 


USrS.]  PANIIL  DB  MSBIiAl.  287 

febles  introdaoed  in  them  and  those  of  Odo  de  Curing- 
ton  would  lead  us  to  suspect  that  they  were  the  same 
person.* 

KoGBB  ov  Salisbury^  whose  sermons  are  mixed  in 
the  Arundel  manuscript  with  those  of  Odo  of  Kant^  is  said 
to  have  flourished  in  1160,  but  we  know  nothing  of  his 
personal  history,  Iieland^  in  his  CoUectaneait  mentions 
his  Commentary  on  the  Psalter ;  and  a  work  ascribed  to 
him,  or  some  other  person  of  the  /same  name,  with  the 
title  Verborum  sifftdftcationes  super  librum  sententiarum, 
was  formerly  in  the  library  of  the  church  of  Peter- 
borough. 


DANIEL  DE  MERLAL 

Daniel  de  Merlai  is  supposed  by  the  old  biblio- 
graphers to  have  been  bom  at  Morley,  in  Norfolk  $  and  he 
seems  by  his  own  account  of  himself  to  have  been  a  native 
of  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  In  the  preface  to  his  treatise 
De  naturis  iitferiarum  et  superiorum,  Daniel  informs  us  that 
he  quitted  his  native  country  to  pursue  his  studies  at  Paris, 
but  that,  soon  disgusted  with  the  unprofitable  studies  of  the 
schools  in  that  city,  he  went  thence  to  Toledo,  then  the 
chief  seat  of  learning  among  the  Spanish  Arabs.  After  re- 
maining some  time  at  Toledo,  he  yielded  to  the  pressing  so- 

*  A  forther  acooaat  of  the  fftblet  of  Odo  dp  Ciriiigton  wiU  be  found  in 
Doace'8  lUiutratioBs  of  Shakespeare;  Douoe  calls  him  *^  Tutor  in  theology 
to  the  celebrated  John  of  Salisbury,"  thns  taking  for  granted  that  he  was  Odo 
of  Kent.  Several  of  the  fables  of  Odo  de  Cirington  haTO  been  printed  in 
**  A  Selection  of  Latin  Stories  from  Manuscripts  of  the  thirteenth  and 
fourteenth  centuries,*'  edited  by  the  writer  of  the  present  volumei  pp.  50— 
53,  55,  57,  58,  80. 

t  VoL  III.  p.  9. 

q2 


228  DANIEL  DE  MSRLAi.  [Flourished 

licitations  of  bis  friends  at  home^  and  returned  to  England 
with  a  ^'  costly  multitude  of  books/*  Finding,  however, 
that  science  was  neglected  in  his  native  land,  he  was  pre- 
paring again  to  travel  in  search  of  it,  when  be  met  with 
John  bishop  of  Norwich,  who  appears  to  have  persuaded 
him  to  settle  in  England,  and  to  whom  he  dedicated  his 
book.  The  following  extract  from  Daniel's  preface  con- 
tains all  that  we  know  of  his  personal  history : 

Cam  dadam  ab  Anglia  me  caasa  stadii  excepissemi  et  Parisias  aliqnandiu 
moram  fedssem,  videbam  quosdam  bestialea  in  scholia  gravi  auctoritate 
•edes  occnpare,  habentes  coram  ae  scamna  duo  vel  tiia  et  descriptos  codices 
importabiles  aureis  Itteris  Ulpiani  traditiones  repnesentantesi  necnoa  et 
tenentes  stilos  plambeos  in  manibusi  cum  quibus  asteriscos  et  obelos  in 
libris  snis  quadam  reverentia  depingebant;  qui  dam  propter  inscientiam 
•nam  locum  statuae  tenerent,  tamen  volebant  sola  tacitumitate  Tideri  sa- 
pientes,  sed  tales  cum  aliquid  dicere  conabantur  infantissimos  repperiebam. 
Cum  hoc,  inquam,  in  hunc  modum  se  habere  deprehenderem,  ne  et  ego 
simile  damnum  incurrerem,  artes  quae  scripturas  illuminant  non  in  transitu 
salutandas  Tel  sub  oompendio  pnetereundas  mecum  sollicita  deliberatione 
tractabam  ;  sed  quoniam  doctrina  Arabum,  quae  in  quadruyio  fere  tota  ex- 
istit,  maxime  his  diebus  apud  Toletum  celebratar,  iliac  at  sapientiores 
mundi  philosophos  audirem  festinanter  properavi.  Vocatus  Tcro  tandem  ab 
amicis  et  invitatus  ut  ab  Hyspania  redirem,  cum  pretiosa  multitudine  libro- 
rum  in  Angliam  veni ;  cumque  nuntiatum  esset  mihi  quod  in  partibus  illis 
disciplinse  liberales  silentium  haberent,  et  pro  Ticio  et  Seio  penitus  Aristo- 
tiles  et  Plato  oblivioni  darentur,  Tchementer  iodolaii  et  tamen  ne  ego  solus 
inter  Romanes  Grecus  remanerem,  ubi  hujusmodi  studium  florere  didiceram 
iter  arripui,  sed  in  ipso  itinere  obtiam  habui  dominum  meum  ac  patrem 
spiritualem  Johannem  Noruuicensem  episcopum,  qui  me  honorifice,  ut 
eum  decebat,  recipiens,  valde  meo  congratulabatur  adventui.  Cum  itaque, 
ut  fit  in  primo  amicorum  conventUi  a  domino  episcopo  de  mirabilibua  et 
diaciplinis  Tholetanis  satis  qunsitum  esset,  ad  ultimum  de  motibus  supers 
coelestium  corporum  scrutabundus  inqairens,  ad  astronomiam  sermonem 
direxit. 

It  appears  that  this  conversation  gave  rise  to  the  work 
by  which  chiefly  Daniel  de  Merlai  is  known.  In  the  first 
of  the  t^o  books  into  which  it  is  divided,  he  treats  of  the 
creation  and  nature  of  matter  and  of  the  world.  On  these 
subjects  he  quotes  frequently  the  Arabian  and  Grecian 
philosophers,  the  latter  probably  through  th^  Arabians. 


\ 


\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 


1175.]  DANIEL    DE    MERLAI.  229 

The  following  passage^  in  which  he  pursues  his  argument 
on  the  priority  of  matter  to  creation,  will  convey  a  notion 
of  his  manner  of  writing : 

Estque  materise  vetltum,  ne  seipsam  componat,  ant  sibi  formam  imponat. 
QivM  cam  ita  se  habeant,  neceue  eat  habere  genitorem  omne  genifcumy  om- 
neqae  compositum  composltorem,  discementem  inter  genera  et  species 
omuium  rerum.  Compositor  yero  talis  non  nisi  genitor  nniyersitatis  Deua 
esse  potest,  qui  sua  sapientia  semel  et  simnl  unde  singula  provenirent  dnas 
quantum  ad  distinctionem  primordiales,  inferiorum  videlicet  et  superiorum 
materias,  ex  nihilo  creavit,  easque  ut  datam  legem  rate  conditionis  inyiola* 
tam  servarent,  in  ipsa  creatione  »temo  cujusdam  divini  spiraculi  flatu  ani- 
mavit.  Hanc  enim  legem  natnram  appello,  que  unicuique  rei  corporess 
secundum  subject!  proprietatem,  motum,  vel  quietem  disponit.  Ista  Tcro 
quia  sine  ratione  nihil  facit,  ab  anima  consilium  capit,  ita  tamen  quod 
neutra  sine  altera  aliquid  operetur.  Heec  sunt  duo  instrumenta  magni  arti- 
ficis,  que  sicut  a  magtstro  didicerunt  in  his  inferioribus  omne  compositum 
quadam  harmonia  componunt,  et  iterum  quadam  dissonantia  dissolynnt,  et 
tamen  hoc  totum  artifici  ascribituri  quia  ab  artifice  hoc  originis  ducatum 
sumpserunt.  Licet  enim  aliquis  faber  suis  instrumentis  operetur,  non  tamen 
instrumentornm  sed  artificis  opus  dicitur.  Sic  quamvis  Deus  hiis  duobus 
instrumentis  ex  jam  prsejacente  materia  formam  mundo  prseataverit,  non 
tamen  mundus  opus  naturae  sed  opus  Dei  recte  nominatur.  Verbi  gratia, 
licet  natura,  cujus  est  officium  humanam  homini  imprimere  liguram,  in 
utero  matemo  umbram  informet,  concayet,  et  disponat,  tamen  homo  propter 
partem  digniorem  opus  Dei  et  est  et  yocatur.  Sic  et  belua,  et  ayis,  et 
hnjusmodi. 

In  the  second  book  he  proceeds  to  treat  of  the  nature 
and  movements  of  the  celestial  bodies,  and  of  the  influ- 
ence of  the  planets ;  and  he  gives  the  following  illustra- 
tion of  the  power  exercised  by  the  moon  upon  the  earth. 

Extra  muros  etenim  civitatis  Tholeli  juxta  Tagum  in  eminentiori  quodam 
loco  exuberant  duo  fontes  antiqua  paganorum  soUertJa  excogitati,  ad  quos 
dum  per  subterraneas  yias  aqua  artificial!  dnctu  discurrit,  tandem  per  duo 
stricta  foramina  erumpens  a  geminis  umis  lapideis  est  recepta,  quas  gens 
Tholetana  yulgari  yocabulo  conchas  yocat.  Cum  yero  luna  plene  su!  drcui- 
tus  orbe  apparet,  pnedictse  conch»  usque  ad  summum  impletae  inyeniuntur, 
ita  quod  nee  etiam  gutta  aqu»  exeat,  nee  majorem  copiam  alterius  aquae  sine 
effusione  sufficiant  retinere.  Si  quia  xero  quoad  mundus  stabit  aquas  inde 
hauriret,  semper  in  plenilunio  conchas  abundant!  aqua  impletas  inyeniret. 
Cum  autem  luna  in  parte  lumine  curtatur,  ita  quod  se  semiplenam  ostendat» 
aqua  in  se  retrahitur,  et  ultra  medietatem  concharum  non  excrescit.  Nee 
enim  siquis  tunc  totum  fluyium  Tag!  successiye  pnedictis  urceolis  infunderet, 
ecLS  impleret,  yd  saltern  in  eis  aquam  augmentaret.    Aqua  quidem  in  gustu 


230  JOHN  OF  BALI8BUBT.  [Died  1180. 

■alia  repperitur,  lioet  mare  ad  miniu  per  eez  dietaa  diitat  a  Tholeta  Ex 
altera  yero  parte  ciyitatifl  Bunt  et  alii  gemini  fontea  dulcia  aqme  conaimili 
artificio  elaboratii  qoi  similiter  secundnm  augmentnm  et  decrementom  lane 
angmentantar  et  decreacunt»  et  hii  quidem  fontea  manant  sub  pede  cajnadam 
preciosee  mpia,  aapra  qvam  mira  arte  fabricatum  est  atnpendam  Gbliene 
palatiam. 

Notwithstanding  Daniel  de  Merlai's  boast  of  the  supe- 
riority of  his  Arabian  philosophy»  towards  the  conclusion 
of  his  book  he  runs  into  the- most  puerile  superstitions  of 
the  astrologers  relating  to  the  influence  of  the  planetary 
positions  on  men's  births,  and  other  events. 

We  have  no  other  indication  of  the  age  at  which  this 
writer  flourished  than  the  fact  of  his  acquaintance  with 
John  of  Oxford,  who  was  bishop  of  Norwich  from  1175 
to  1200;  and  if  we  assume  (which  is  not  itaprobable) 
that  Daniel  returned  to  England  soon  after  John  was  made 
bishop,  the  former  date  may  be  taken  as  that  at  which 
he  flourished.  A  good  copy  of  the  treatise,  which  has 
furnished  the  foregoing  extracts,  is  preserved  in  the  British 
Museum  (MS.  Arundel,  No.  3775  fol.  88,  r®).  There  arc 
no  traces  of  any  other  work  of  the  same  writer,  though 
Bale  attributes  to  him  a  treatise  in  one  book,  De  principiis 
mathematicis. 


JOHN  OP  SALISBURY. 

John  oi?  Salisbury  is  perhaps  the  most  celebrated 
writer  of  the  reign  of  Henry  11.  He  was  probably  bom 
in  the  city  from  which  he  took  his  name,  about  the  year 
1120.*     In  an  interesting  account  of  his  own  studies, 

^  The  year  of  hia  birth  haa  been  aUted  to  be  1110,  for  which  there  la  no 
authoritjTi  and  which  ia  inconaiatent  with  hia  own  atatement  that  he  waa 
odmodum  adolHcem  ia  1136.    It  baa  alfo  b«en  aaierted  that  bii  fcmilf 


Died  1160.']         john  of  Salisbury.  231 

which  he  gires  in  the  second  book  of  the  Metahgicusy  he 
tells  ns  that  when  a  mere  youth  he  went  to  Paris,  the  year 
after  the  death  of  Henry  I,  (i.  e.  1186),  and  that  he  there 
attended  the  lectures  of  Abelard  on  the  mountain  of  St# 
Genevi^e.  After  the  departure  of  that  philosopher,  John 
attended  the  schools  of  Alberic  and  of  Robert  de  Meluti, 
who,  like  Abelard^  taught  chiefly  dialectics.  He  neit 
studied  grammar,  t.  e.  the  writers  of  antiquity,  three  years 
in  the  school  of  William  de  Conches,  during  which  period 
he  informs  us  that  he  read  much  and  profitably.  Sub- 
sequently, in  the  school  of  Bernard  FEveque,  he  resumed 
his  former  course  of  studies,  and  entered  upon  the  q^ia^ 
driviumy  or  circle  of  mathematical  and  physical  sciences, 
in  which  he  had  been  initiated  under  the  German  Hardei- 
yinus,  but  for  which  he  seems  to  have  had  little  taste. 
About  this  time,  or  soon  after,  he  also  recommenced  under 
Peter  Helias  the  study  of  rhetoric,  which  he  had  before 
read  rather  superficially  under  a  teacher  named  Theodoric. 
His  poverty  at  this  period  compelled  John  of  Salisbury 
to  seek  support  by  instructing  young  noblemen,*  which 
did  not  hinder  him  from  continuing  his  studies  with  dili- 
gence, and  he  contracted  an  intimate  friendship  with  his 
countryman  Adam  du  Petit  Pont,  who  had  especially 
attached  himself  to  the  doctrines  of  Aristotle.  William 
de  Soissons  had  then  recently  opened  a  school,  and  pro- 
mulgated new  philosophical  opinions,  which  John  of 
Salisbury  eagerly  followed  for  a  while,  but  he  finally  re- 


name was  Petitt  on  the  supposition  that  the  word  parvum  in  the  following 
passage  from  his  192nd  letter  is  intended  for  a  pun,  of  which  the  evidence  is 
certainly  ftir  from  conclnsire — Sed  quantum  est  hoc  quod  me  totum,  id  est 
hominem  parrnm  nomine,  facnltate  minorem,  minimum  merito  Tobis  deber! 
proilteor  ?    Nam  totnm  istud  pro  merito  pamm  est. 

*  Et  quia  nobilium  liberos,  qui  mihi  amicorum  et  cognatorum  auxiliis 
destitttto,  paupertati  mese,  solatiante  Deo»  alimenta  prsestabant,  instruendoi 
Busceperam. 


232  JOHN  OF  SALISBURY.  [Died  1180, 

jected  them  as  unsatisfactory,  and  left  this  new  master  in 
order  to  open  a  srchool  for  himself.  He  still  attended  the 
lectures  of  Gilbert,  supposed  to  be  Gilbert  de  la  Porree 
fPorretanusJy  who,  quitting  Paris  in  1142,  appears  to  have 
been  succeeded  first  by  Robert  le  Poule,*  and  next  by 
Simon  de  Poissy ;  these,  as  John  of  Salisbury  informs  us, 
were  his  instructors  in  theology  only.t  In  his  267th 
Epistle  he  seems  to  intimate  that  he  had  also  studied 
theology  under  Odo  of  Kent. 

In  this  manner,  John  of  Salisbury  tells  us,  he  spent 
about  twelve  years.  His  account  is  somewhat  confused, 
but  it  appears  hardly  to  bear  the  explanation  recently 
hazarded  by  professor  Petersen,  in  his  edition  of  the 
Entheticus,]:  that  a  portion  of  this  period  was  spent  in 
England,  and  that  he  studied  at  Oxford.  His  teaching 
seems  to  have  been  attended  with  no  great  success;  and, 
unable  longer  to  struggle  with  the  indigence  in  which  it 
left  him,  he  sought  a  shelter  in  the  abbey  of  Mo&tier-la- 
Celle,  in  the  diocese  of  Troyes,  where  he  was  received  in 
the  quality  of  clerc  or  chaplain  of  the  abbot,  Peter  de 
Celles,  who  became  during  the  remainder  of  his  life  his 
constant  friend  and  patron.§  His  letters  contain  many 
allusions  to  his  obligations  to  Peter  de  Celles,  and  strong 
expressions  of  his  gratitude.  About  the  year  1151,  after 
he  had  remained  three  years  in  the  abbey,  he  returned  to 
England,  with  letters  from  Peter  de  Celles  and  St.  Bernard 
recommending  him  to  Theobald  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
who  appointed  him  his  secretary,  John  soon  gained  the 
confidence  of  his  new  master,  and  through  him  became 

*  The  history  of  thia  person  is  involved  in  considerable  confusion,  but  I 
think  he  must  have  been  teaching  in  Paris  at  the  time  John  of  Salisbury 
attended  his  lectures.    See  the  account  of  him  at  p.  1 83  of  the  present  volume. 

t  Jo.  Sarisb.  Metalog.  lib.  ii.  c.  10. 

t  Pp.  73—77. 

f  Jo.  Sarisb,  Epist.  85.    Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  xiv.  p.  93. 


Died  1180.]  john  of  Salisbury.  233 

acquainted  with  Thomas  Beckct^  at  that  time  chancellor 
of  England^  who  presented  him  to  the  king  and  employed 
him  in  various  important  missions.  He  informs  us  in 
the  MetalogicuSy  written  about  the  year  1160,  that  he  had 
passed  the  Alps  ten  times,  been  twice  in  Apulia,  treated 
various  afiairs  at  Rome  for  his  masters  and  friends,  and 
frequently  travelled  into  various  parts  of  England  and 
France.*  In  the  course  of  these  negociations  he  obtained 
the  friendship  of  pope  Adrian  IV.  (who  was  an  English- 
man), and  he  brought  from  Rome  the  bull  by  which  that 
pontiff  authorized  the  English  monarch  to  conquer  Ire- 
land and  reduce  it  to  conformity  with  the  Romish  church. 
He  appears  however  to  have  lost  the  king's  favour,  for  a 
period,  in  1160,  and  to  have  been  obliged  to  retire  to  the 
continent. 

When  Thomas  Becket  was  made  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury John  of  Salisbury  was  continued  in  the  office  of 
secretary,  which  he  had  held  under  his  predecessor  Theo- 
bald, who  had  named  him  to  be  one  of  the  executors  of  his 
will.f  He  soon  became  distinguished  as  one  of  the 
stanchest  partizans  of  the  new  archbishop  in  his  oppo- 
sition to  the  crown,  and  thus  became  an  especial  object  of 
the  king's  aversion.  Peter  de  Blois  %  calls  him  the  eye 
and  arm  of  the  archbishop.  He  had  preceded  Becket  in 
his  flight  into  France,  where,  deprived  of  all  he  had  in 
England,  he  again  suffered  under  the  pressure  of  poverty, 
and  it  is  evident  that  he  was  urging  his  friends  in  England 
to  exert  themselves  to  make  his  peace  with  the  court  in 
order  that  he  might  be  enabled  to  return.  The  terms 
offered  were  that  he  should  promise  no  longer  to  give  the 
archbishop  his  outward  support,  and  that  he  should  swear 

*  Johan.  Sarisb.  Metalog.  lib.  iii.  prolog, 
f  Wharton,  Anglia  Sacra,  toI.  it.  p.  zi. 
X  Epist.  zxi. 


234  JOHN  OF  sALiflBURT.  [Died  llBO. 

that  he  had  done  nothing  contrary  to  the  king's  dignity 
during  his  exile.  The  pope  forbade  him  to  take  the  oath^ 
under  the  pretence  that  he  would  not  allow  the  acts  which 
he  had  done  in  obedience  to  the  church  to  be  brought 
into  question ;  and  he  refased  himself  openly  to  desert 
his  patron.*  He  says  that  although  he  had  always  been 
faithful  to  the  archbishop  he  often  disapproved  of  his  in- 
discreet zeal— ^^  It  is  known  to  the  Inspector  of  hearts 
and  the  Judge  of  words  and  works^  that  I  blamed  the 
archbishop  more  frequently  and  with  more  asperity  than 
any  other  mortal^  for  the  things  in  which  from  the  first 
he  appeared  to  hare  provoked  indiscreetly  by  his  zeal 
the  king  and  court  to  bitterness^  when  out  of  regard  to 
the  place  and  time  and  persons  many  things  might  hare 
been  allowed/'  f  He  concludes  by  promising  that  if  he 
might  be  allowed  to  return  in  peace  without  the  two  con- 
ditions just  mentioned^  he  would  *^  be  in  future  a  cour- 
tier '*  fero  de  catero  curialUJ.  In  one  or  two  other  in- 
stances^ when  apparently  influenced  by  the  desire  of  re- 
turning from  his  exile^  he  speaks  thus  disapprovingly  of 
Becket's  violence ;  yet  at  other  times  he  himself  exhibits 
equal  bitterness  and  animosity^  and  not  only  speaks  con- 
tinually of  the  king  and  his  courtiers  in  the  most  abusive 
terms^  but  lavishes  on  the  English  clergy,  many  of  whom 
had  sided  with  the  king,  the  most  tevolting  epithets^* 
aacrUegi,  adult eriy  prtBdoneSy  Jkifre$. 


*  Si  enim  ezigeretar  a  me  at  abnegarem  arcliiepiscopam  meumi  quod 
niillas  laonim  fecit  adhae,  nee  aliqdit  de  tdta  Anglia,  abiit  ut  aoquiescam 
tante  tarpitadini  primus  aut  Qltimus.  Bpist.  150,  addrelaed  to  tlie  bUhop 
of  Exeter. 

t  Novit  enim  cordium  Inspectdr  et  rerborum  Judex  et  oj^rum,  quod 
BKpius  et  asperiuB  quam  aliquia  mortalium  corripuerim  dominum  arcbiepiB- 
oopum  de  bis  in  quibus  ab  initio  dominum  regem  et  suoi  zelo  quodam  ia- 
consultiufl  yisus  eit  ad  amaritudinem  provocastfey  cum  pro  loco  et  tempore 
et  peraonia  multa  fuerint  dispensanda.    lb. 


Died  1190.']         john  of  Salisbury.  235 

During  his  exile,  John  of  Satisbury  was  actively  em- 
ployed in  the  cause  of  his  patron,  and  made  more  than  one 
journey  to  Rome.  Filled  with  joy  at  the  reconciliation 
of  the  archbishop  and  the  king  iii  1170,  he  was  one  of  the 
first  to  hasten  baek  to  his  natire  country  ;*  but  he  con- 
tinued to  support  Beoket  in  all  his  proceedings,  and  in 
the  closing  catastrophe  he  is  said  to  have  been  destined 
to  the  same  fate^  had  he  not  escaped  by  a  mistake  of 
the  assassins,  who  took  another  person  for  him,  after 
Becket's  death*  John  of  Salisbury  continued  attached  to 
the  new  archbishop,  Richard,  whose  cause  he  espoused 
with  seal  when  the  court  was  opposed  to  his  election. 

In  1176,  John  of  Salisbury  was  made  bishop  of  Char- 
tres,  a  dignity  which  he  owed  chiefly  to  his  signal  zeal  in 
the  cause  of  Thomas  Becket,  in  testimony  of  which  he 
sometimes  wrote  at  the  head  of  his  charters,  Johanne$ 
dMna  dignatiane  ei  tnerUiB  8.  Thomes  Carnotensis  ecclesuB 
mnister  kumilii.f  He  was  consecrated  in  the  month  of 
August,  by  Maurice  archbishop  of  P^s.  He  lived  to 
enjoy  this  dignity  only  four  years,  dying  at  Chartres  on 
the  25th  of  October  1180.^  He  was  succeeded  by  his 
old  firiend  Peter  de  Celles.  It  appears  that  while  bishop 
of  Chartres  John  was  accused  of  having  been  rendered 
proud  and  arrogant  by  his  advancement. 

As  a  writer,  John  of  Salisbury  is  estimable  for  his  great 
erudition,  and  for  the  general  correctness  of  his  style.  We 
learn  from  his  own  writings  that  his  favourite  pursuits 
were  grammar  and  rhetoric,  ».  e.  the  study  of  the  ancient 
writers,  and  he  quotes  several  who  are  no  longer  extant. 
His  style  is  however  sometimes  confused.  He  seems  to 
have  had  little  taste  for  scientific  studies ;  and  he  appears 

*  See  Epist.  S79  and  280. 
f  Hist.  lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  ziv.  p.  96. 

X  Snffideat  reatons  ftnr  adopting  thii  date  instead  of  118 1  are  giren  in 
th«  Hift«  lit.  de  Fr.  ton.  lir.  p«  97. 


236  JOHN  OP  SALISBURY.  [Died  1180. 

less  as  a  philosopher  himself  than  as  a  critic  of  the 
systems  of  the  various  sects  of  antiquity^  as  well  as  of  those 
of  the  age  in  which  he  lived.  He  avows  a  strong  leaning 
towards  the  doctrines  of  the  Peripatetics. 

John  of  Salisbury  appears  to  have  been  chiefly  occupied 
in  literary  labours  during  the  period  when  he  was  secre- 
tary to  archbishop  Theobald,  and  they  seem  all  to 
have  had  the  same  object,  to  expose  the  corruptions  of 
the  age,  and  show  the  humanizing  influence  of  philosophy 
and  scholastic  studies.  The  PolycraticuSy  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  productions  of  the  middle  ages,  which  appears 
to  have  been  written  partly  in  England  and  partly  during 
a  mission  into  Italy,  is  said  to  have  been  completed  in 
1156,^  although  it  must  have  been  re-touched  in  some 
parts  during  the  subsequent  years.  The  full  title  of  this 
work  is  Polycraticiis  de  nugia  curialium  et  vestigiis  philo- 
sophorum ;  by  vestigia  phUosophorum  he  means  that  por- 
tion of  the  doctrines  of  the  philosophers  which  was 
worthy  to  be  followed  and  adopted,  and  the  nugm  were 
the  vain  occupations  and  pursuits  by  which  the  larger 
portion  of  mankind  was  then  influenced.  In  a  poetical 
introduction  bearing  the  title  of  EutheticuSy  addressed  to 
Thomas  Becket,  then  chancellor  of  England,  the  author 
says  that  these  nugcB  or  vain  pursuits  occupied  and  per^ 
vaded  almost  every  class  of  his  contemporaries. 

Omnia,  si  nescis,  loca  sunt  plenissima  nugis, 

Quanim  tota  eohors  est  inimica  tibi. 
Ecclesia  nugse  regnant,  et  principis  aula  ; 

In  claustro  regnant,  pontificisque  domo. 
In  nngis  clerus,  in  nugis  militis  nsus, 

In  nugis  juvenes,  totaqae  turba  senum  ; 
Rusticus  in  nugis,  in  nugis  sezus  uterque, 

Servus  et  iogenuus,  dives,  egenus  in  his. 


*  MCLVI.  Johannes  Salisbiriensis  scripsit  Polyoraticum  suam.    Chron. 
Jo.  Abbatis  S.  Petri  de  Burgo,  ap.  Sparke,  p.  78. 


Died  IISO.}  john  of  Salisbury.  237 

In  the  first  chapter  of  this  work  its  author  points  out 
the  dangers  attendant  upon  honours  and  riches^  and  the 
moral  intoxication  to  which  they  lead.  The  poisoning 
seductions  which  accompany  prosperity  are  the  greatest 
enemies  to  truth  and  virtue.  He  states  briefly  the  duties 
which  are  imposed  on  us  by  nature,  reason,  justice,  &c., 
and  then  proceeds  to  treat  at  length  on  the  pleasures  and 
vanities  which  were  allowed  to  take  their  place.  At  the 
head  of  the  list  stand  the  pleasures  of  the  chase,  which  in 
the  time  of  John  of  Salisbury  was  a  great  source  of  ex- 
travagance and  luxury  to  the  great,  and  no  less  an  instru- 
ment of  oppression  and  injustice  towards  the  lower  classes 
of  society.  He  next  treats  of  the  use  and  abuse  of  dice ;  of 
music  and  musical  instruments,  and  of  different  classes  of 
actors  and  minstrels,  or  jogelours.  Of  these  he  observes, 
after  speaking  of  the  minstrelsy  of  Nero, — 

Eniii  vero  adhnc  aliqui  pro  parte  imitantur,  etsi  foeditate  ilHus  nemo  dig- 
netnr  inTolvi ;  cum  gratiam  soam  bistrionibos  et  mimis  multi  prosUtuant, 
et  in  exbibenda  malitia  coram  ceeca  quadam  et  contemptibili  munlficentia 
non  tarn  mirabiles  quam  miserabiles  faciunt  Bumptua.  lUa  tamen  tetas  (at 
sic  interim  dicam)  bonestiores  babait  bistriones:  si  tamen  aliquo  modo 
bonestum  est,  quod  omni  bomine  libero  comprobator  indignom.  Nee  tamen 
bistrionem  assero  turpiter  in  arte  sua  versari,  etsi  indabitanter  turpe  sit  esse 
bistrionem.  Et  qnidem  bistriones  erant,  qui  gestu  corporis  arteque  ver- 
borum  et  modulatione  vocis  factas  aut  fictas  bistorias  sub  aspectu  publico 
referebant,  quos  apud  Plautum  inTeois  et  Meoandrum,  et  quibus  ars  nostri 
Tcrentii  innotescit.  Porro  comicis  et  traglcis  abeuntibus,  cum  omnia  levitaa 
occupaverit,  clientes  eorum,  comoedi  videlicet  et  tragoedi,  exterminati  sunt. 
Sed  eos  in  serviU  conditione  dnntazat  plerumqne  reperies.  Quis  vero  eoram 
usus  extiteriti  poetica  docens  aperit : 

Aut  prodesse  volunt,  aut  delectare,  poetae, 

Aut  jucunda  simul  et  idonea  dicere  vitse. 

At  nostra  setas,  prolapsa  ad  fabulas  et  qusevis  inania,  non  modo  aures  et 
cor  prostituit  vanitati»  sed  oculorum  et  aurium  voluptate  suam  mulcet  de- 
sidiami  luxuriam  accendit,  conquireus  undique  fomenta  vitiorum.  Nonne 
piger  desidiam  instruit  et  somnos  provocat  instrumentorum  suavitate ;  aut 
vocum  modulis,  bilaritate  canentium ;  aut  fabulantium  gratia ;  sive,  quod 
turpius  est,  ebrietate  vel  crapula  ?   Artem  utique  elegantiorem  docuit  Flaccusi 

ter  uncti 

Transnanto  Tyberim,  somnQ  quibus  est  opus  alto. 


998  lOHM  or  IALI8BVRT.         [ZNedf  1180. 

Ait  qnoque  «onobnator»  Dolow  eit  souuras  operanti,  sit^  panim  sWe 
multum  comedat.  Exercitatio  siquidem  paiit  et  alit  qnietis  gratianiy  qms 
otii  continoatione  et  quodam  inerti»  siue  marcore  perimitiir.  Utique  in 
det ideriia  eat  ommi  otioaiii,  c«m  et  otioaitas  inimica  sit  anisuB  et  de  domi* 
pilio  ejus  omnia  atndia  Tirtatis  eliminet.    Cl^mat  ethicosi 

Cernis  nt  igvavum  comunpant  otia  corpoa, 
Et  capiant  Titium  m  moyeantur  aquR. 

Qaod  ?  inquifl.    Audi.    Disces  si  eidem  credideria. 

Qttttritnr  ^gisthus  qnare  sit  factus  adulter ; 
Cansa  est  in  promptn,  desidiosos  erat. 

literatissimi  ergo  yiri  eonailiuni  est,  at  hostis  te  semper  inveniat  ocen- 
patnm,  quo  Tariis  tantationibiia  ejos  ooeapationom  tnarom  clypeoa  tarn  lUi- 
oiter  qnam  pmdenter  opponas.  Vitanda  est,  inqnit  etMcns,  improba  siren 
desidu».  At  earn  noatris  prorogant  histriones.  Ezoccnpatis  etenim  menti- 
bus  snrrepunt  taediSi  seseque  non  snstinerent,  si  non  alicijas  roloptatia 
solatio  mnlcerentv.  Admiasg  aunt  ergo  tpecticvla  et  infinita  tjrodnia 
vanitatii,  qnibus  qni  omnino  otiari  non  possnnt  perniciosiaa  occupantnr. 
Satins  enim  fnerat  otiari,  qnam  torpiter  occnpari.  Hinc  mimi,  salii,  Tel 
saUares,  balatrones,  «miliani,  gladiatores,  palaatiitK,  gignadii,  piaatigia- 
tores,  malefici  qnoqne  mnlti,  et  tota  jocnlatomm  aoena  proeedit. 

The  foregoing  extract  affords  a  fidr  speoimen  of  John 
of  Salisbury's  general  style.  He  proceeds  in  the  sequel 
to  declaim  on  the  vanity  of  magic^  soothsaying,  sorcery^ 
and  the  observance  of  signs,  omens,  and  dreams.  The 
subject  of  omens  and  dreams  is  continued  through  the 
second  book*  It  is  there  shown  that  all  prognostications 
and  signs  of  future  events  are  not  to  be  despised,  and 
many  examples  are  cited,  more  especially  that  of  the  de- 
struction of  Jerusalem  by  Titus,  the  history  of  which 
event,  taken  chiefly  from  Josephus,  occupies  several  chap- 
ters. From  the  consideration  of  prognostications  the 
author  proceeds  to  the  interpretation  of  dreams,  and  the 
science  of  astrology,  and  to  some  theological  questions 
arising  out  of  this  part  of  his  subject.  The  third  book  of 
the  Polycraticus  is  much  more  brief,  and,  commencing 
with  the  consideration  of  man's  nature  and  position  in 
society  and  of  the  wickedness  of  pride  and  avarice,  is 
chiefly  devoted  to  the  subject  of  flatterers  and  parasites. 


ZHftf  1180.]  JOBV  OV  SAtlSBUBT.  239 

It  ends  with  ft  chapter  on  tyrants^  a  subject  which  is  con- 
tinued in  the  fourth  book*.  John  of  Salisbury  openly 
preaches  the  doctrine  that  a  tyrant  is  the  enemy  of  so- 
cietyi  and  that  it  is  the  duty  of  individuals  to  slay  him, 
but  he  reserves  to  the  ecclesiastical  body  alone  the  right 
of  judging  vho  might  be  worthy  of  the  name,  and  of 
giving  the  order  for  his  destruction.  This  dangerous  doo» 
trine,  which  the  church  of  Rome  has  ever  been  too  eager 
to  promulgate  and  to  act  upon,  is  nowhere  stated  with 
more  boldness  than  in  the  present  work,  and  is  the  more 
remarkable  because  it  comes  so  directly  from  the  pen  of 
the  lealous  partisan  of  Thomas  Becket.  A  king,  he  says, 
is  but  a  servant  of  the  priesthood,  and  inferior  to  the 
clergy: 

Hnao  «rgo  gUdium  de  mana  aodesitt  aodpit  piincepiy  com  ipit  tamen 
gladiiun  sengvinia  omnino  aoo  habeat.  Habet  tamen  el  iatiim:  aed  eo 
Qtitiir  per  principis  manunii  cui  coercendorum  corporam  contulit  poteatateniy 
Bpiritnaliam  sibi  in  pontificibna  autoritate  reserrata.  Est  ergo  princeps 
lacerdotii  qnidem  minUtar,  et  qui  saeromm  ofleionun  illam  partem  ezercet 
qntt  aaoerdotii  manibns  Tidetnr  indigna.  Saeramm  namqne  legum  omne 
officinm  religioanm  et  pium  est ;  illud  tamen  inferios,  quod  in  poenis  crimi- 
nnm  eiercetur,  et  qnandam  carnificix  repraesentare  Tidetnr  imaginem.  Unde 
at  ConatantinuB  Romanomm  fideliaatmna  imperator,  cnm  aaoerdotom  con- 
cilinm  Niceam  conyocasset,  nee  primum  locam  tenere  ausua  est»  nee  ae 
presbyteromm  immiscere  consessibus»  sed  sedem  novissimam  occupaTit. 
Sententiaa  Tero  qnas  ab  eia  approbates  audivit,  ita  yeneratna  est  ac  al  eaa  de 
diyin*  m^eatatia  aenaiaaet  emanaaae  jndidQ.  8ed  et  Ubelloa  inacriptionnm, 
quoa  adinyicem  conceptoa  sacerdotnm  crimina  continentes  imperatori  por- 
rexeranty  suacepit  qnidem  cbiusosqne  reposnit  in  sinn  sno.  Cnm  antem 
eosdem  ad  oharitatem  et  eoncordiam  rerooaaaet,  dixit  aibi,  tanqnam  homini 
et  qni  jndidp  anbjaceret  aacerdotnm,  iUicitnm  eaae  Deorum  examinare  canaaa, 
qni  non  poaannt  niai  a  aolo  Deo  jndicari ;  libelloaqne  qnoa  receperat  non 
inspeetos  dedit  incendio,  fratmm  yeritna  crimina  yel  conyitia  pnblicare,  et 
Cham  reprobi  filii  maledictionem  incvrrere  qni  patria  yerenda  non  tezit. 
Unde  et  in  acriptia  Nicolai  Bomani  pontificia  idem  dixiaae  narratnr,  Vera 
si  propriia  oculis  vidissem  sacerdotem  Dei,  ant  aliqnem  eomm  qni  monachico 
faabitn  circnmamicti  annt,  peccantemi  chlamydem  meam  expUcarem  et 
cooperirem  earn  ne  ab  aliquo  videretnr. 

In  other  respects  our  author  gives  good  counsel  to 
princes  on  their  duties  towards  their  subjects  and  the 


240  JOHN  OF  SALISBURY.  [Died  1180. 

state.  In  the  fifth  book  he  continues  to  treat  of  the 
regal  dignity,  and  on  its  moral  obligations.  The  sixth 
1)ook  treats  chiefly  on  the  armed  portion  of  the  commu- 
nity, or  the  knights,  of  its  duties  and  privileges,  and 
of  the  corruptions  which  pervaded  that  and  aU  other 
classes  of  society  in  his  time,  with  interesting  allusions  to 
contemporary  history.  In  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  this 
book,  John  of  Salisbury  relates  a  conversation  which  he 
had  with  pope  Adrian  lY.  on  the  causes  of  the  corruptions 
of  the  church,  when  on  a  friendly  visit  to  that  pontiff  at 
Beneventum.  The  seventh  and  eighth  books  of  the  Poly" 
ci^aticus  are  both  long.  The  author  now  proceeds  to  dis- 
cuss the  tenets  of  the  ancient  philosophers  on  the  subject 
of  virtue,  and  confesses  his  preference  for  those  of  the 
Academics.  He  then  describes  the  vices  most  prevalent 
at  courts  and  most  dangerous  to  the  state,  deplores  men's 
errors,  and  shows  virtue  to  be  the  true  road  to  happiness. 
He  contrasts  true  glory  with  false  glory,  avarice  with 
liberality,  the  love  of  power  with  the  love  of  liberty,  glut- 
tony with  temperance,  incontinence  with  chastity ;  and, 
finally,  he  returns  to  the  subject  of  tyranny,  and  to  the 
duty  of  slaying  tyrants. 

A  metrical  treatise  by  John  of  Salisbury,  entitled.  En- 
iheiictts  de  dogmatephilosophorumy  of  which  a  good  edition 
has  been  recently  published  by  professor  Petersen  of  Ham- 
burgh, gives  us  a  favourable  opinion  of  the  author's  skill 
in  versification,  and  resembles  closely  in  its  object  the 
Polycraticusy  except  that  it  commences  by  comparing  the 
doctrines  of  the  philosophers,  and  ends  with  lamenting 
the  vices  of  the  court  and  of  the  age.  Professor  Petersen 
adduces  reasons  for  believing  that  this  poem  was  written 
in  1160;  and,  like  the  former  work,  it  was  dedicated  to 
the  chancellor,  Thomas  Becket.  It  is  valuable  because, 
while  in  the  Polycraticus  John  of  Salisbury  attacks  the 


Died  IISC]  john  of  Salisbury.  241 

vices  and  errors  of  his  age  in  general^  he  here  holds  up  to 
obloquy  those  of  individuals ;  but  the  satire  is  rendered 
obscure  by  the  circumstance  of  his  having  concealed  the 
real  objects  of  his  aspersion  under  fictitious  names.  In 
the  following  lines  he  describes  the  doctrines  of  Epicurus : 

SobrioB  ezaudit  leges  Epiennu»  et  idem 

Ebrios  est  reneri  snbditos  atqae  golee. 
Hie  faber  incadem,  qaam  circiimYallat  inani» 

Figit  in  incerto,  cetera  casus  agit. 
Conflat  in  immensum  corpuscula  casus  acenrum, 

Ut  fiat  mundi  maximus  iste  globus  ; 
Fixaque  sint  elementa  locis  sub  lege  perenni, 

Utque  vices  peragant  tempora  certa  suas. 
Hsec  quoque  secta  docet,  animam  cum  came  perire, 

Et  fhistra  leges  juatitiamque  coli. 
Flatibns  assimulat  subtilia  corpora  mentes, 

Mentiturque  piis  prsemia  nulla  darL 
Quid  deceat,  nescit ;  Venus,  alea,  somnusi  odores, 

Crassa  culina,  jocus,  otia,  vina  jurant. 
Istis  addantur  plausus,  faUacia,  nugae, 

Et  quicquid  mimus,  histrio,  scurra  probant. 

The  following  extract  will  serve  to  show  the  manner  in 
which  the  courtiers  of  Henry  II.  are  treated  in  this  poem. 
It  is  uncertain  who  was  intended  by  the  appellation  of 
Sporus. 

Exigit  a  cunctia  munuscula  Sporus,  at  ilia 

Si  dederis,  perdes  ;  nil  dabis,  hostis  eris. 
Si  sit  amicus,  obest ;  si  non  sit,  qunrit  obesse  ; 

Quidquid  agas,  oberit,  aut  volet  ease  nocens. 
Rem  fortasse  tuam  poteris  servare,  sed  ejus 

A  vitiis  animum  non  reyocare  potes. 
Munus  amicitise  speciem  producit,  at  ipsam 

Rem  gignit  virtus  vera,  probatque  fides. 
Augetur  tamen  obsequiis,  sumitque  vigorem, 

Nam  probitas  meritis  prsmia  digna  refert. 

At  the  time  when  this  poem  was  composed^  its  author 
seems  to  have  been  in  disfavour  with  the  king^  which  will 
perhaps  account  for  the  bitterness  of  his  satire.  About  the 
same  time  he  is  supposed  to  have  written  the  Metahgkw, 

VOL.  II.  R 


Hi  JOHN  09  SALIBBVltT.  [Died  II8O1 

which  is  hardly  inferior  in  importance  to  the  Pob/cratieui* 
The  object  of  this  work  was  to  vindicate  the  philosophical 
studies  of  the  schools  against  the  sneers  and  outcries  of 
ignorant  people^  and  more  especially  against  a  self*-suffi- 
cient  sect  whom  he  calls  Comificians.  It  ends  with  a  long 
lamentation  on  the  miseries  of  the  age.  This  work,  which 
consists  of  six  books,  contains  valuable  materials  for  the 
history  of  scholastic  philosophy  during  the  twelfth  century, 
and  furnishes  portraits  of  the  leaders  of  the  different  sects, 
by  one  who  had  lived  and  studied  in  their  society. 

Next  in  importance  to  the  works  just  described  are  the 
letters  of  John  of  Salisbury,  of  which  a  considerable 
number  are  preserved.  Upwards  of  three  hundred  were 
printed  at  Paris  by  Jean  Masson  in  1611;  and  others 
have  been  since  printed  among  the  letters  of  Thomas 
Becket,  and  in  other  publications.  These  letters  are  of 
the  greatest  importance  for  the  history  of  the  period 
during  which  John  of  Salisbury  held  the  office  of  secretary 
to  the  archbishops  of  Canterbury. 

In  1163,  Thomas  Becket,  then  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, was  taking  steps  to  obtain  the  canonization  of  his 
predecessor,  Anselm,  and  with  this  object  he  employed 
John  of  Salisbury  to  write  an  abridged  life  of  that  prelate, 
which  was  presented  to  the  pope  at  the  council  of  Tours, 
in  the  month  of  May.  Becket's  disputes  with  his  sovereign 
hindered  the  further  prosecution  of  this  object ;  but  the  life 
of  Anselm  is  preserved,  and  has  been  printed  by  Wharton. 

John  of  Salisbury  also  wrote  a  life  of  Thomas  Becket, 
which  has  been  supposed  to  be  preserved  only  in  the 
abridgment  inserted  in  the  Quadriloffusy  or  life  by  four 
authorities,  compiled  in  the  fourteenth  century  by  order 
of  pope  Gregory  XI.  There  is  a  MS.  life  of  Becket,  pur- 
porting to  be  by  John  of  Salisbury,  in  the  Bodleian 
library,  M8«  Laud.  F.  14. 


Died  IIBO.']         jrOH^  of  salisburt*  243 

Commentaries  on  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul  are  also  at- 
tributed to  John  of  Salisbury,  which  are  preserved  in  manu- 
script, but  are  found  under  the  names  of  different  writers* 
A  Poenitentiale  said  to  have  been  compiled  by  him  occurs 
in  the  Bodleian  Library. .  To  his  poetical  compositions, 
we  may  add  a  metrical  version  of  tiie  fable  of  the  mem- 
bers which  conspired  against  the  stomach,  commencing 
with  the  lines : 

Concilinm  celebrant  humani  corporis  artus 
Inter  M|  de  ae  plnrima  verba  serunt. 

The  titles  of  several  other  books,  ascribed  to  John  of 
Salisbury  by  the  older  bibliographers,  are  either  made  from 
different  Subjects  treated  In  the  Polycraticus,  or  fcTunded 
in  errors  of  other  kinds. 

Sdition», 

Hie  liber  Ititolatnr  de  nng*  CQria]i&  &  veatigiifi  pb'or*  cni'  Johanneft  Salea- 
beriensis  CamotSsis  epus  fait  actor,  fol.  Supposed  to  have  been  printed 
at  Cologne  or  Brussels  about  the  year  1475.  At  the  end  is  the  poem 
De  metnbris  corporis  qnomodo  adversus  stomachnm  conspirareraut. 

Johanis  SaresberiSsis  Policraticns  de'  nngis  cnrialifi  et  vestigijs  ph*or*  con- 
tines  libros  octo  (at  the  head  of  the  first  page).  At  the  end,  lohannis 
Saresberiensis,  policraticus  de  nngis  curialium  &  restigijs  phllosophomm, 
in  octo  partitns  libros  partiales :  finitur  cnranit  imprimi  honestus  vir 
Constantinus  fradin  biblippola  Anno  d*Qi  M.ecccc.  &  .xiij.  Eztrema 
manns  apposita  fuit  code  anno  .zrij.  Kalendas  Maij. 

Policratici  contenta,  festiufl  opus :  &  omni  statu!  delectabile  lectu  :  quod  in- 
titulatnr  Policratica,  Denugis  curialiu  etvestiglis  philosopho'  Joanis  Sa- 
lesberiensis  doctissimi  sane  Sc  eloquBtissiml  riri,  exemplar  vnde  ezcusum 
est  emedatissimu  et  annotationib'  marginalib^  adiutd :  prestate  et  emis- 
sions p.cnrate  gravissimo  doctissimoq*  patre  confessore  regis  ....  Venale 
in  rico  sancti  Jacobi  in  Sole  aureo :  et  in  lilio  aureo  apnd  beniuolos 
mercatores  magr'm  Bertholdu  Rebolt.  &  JoanS  pamu.  At  the  end» 
%  Pinit  opus  preclaru  Policratici  De  nugis  curlalifl>  &  restigiis  philoso- 
phorn :  cui'  loanes  SalesberiSsis  actor  fiiit.  In  Sole  aureo  rici  sancti 
lacobi.  Impressum  Parrhisi'  opera  et  expSsis  maglstri  Bertholdi  Rem- 
bolt,  &  loanis  parui.    Anno  domini  M.n.ziii.    Die  vero  zxr.  Maij.  4to. 

The  writer  of  the  article  on  John  of  Salisbury  in  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de 
France  has  stated  erroneously  that  the  Metalogicus  was  joined  with  this 
edition. 

R  2 


244  JOHN  OF  SALISBURY.  [Died  1180. 

JoannU  SaresberiensU  Policraticas :   sive  de  nugis  cnrialiom,  et  Testigiis 
philosophorum,  Libri  octo.    Lugduni  BaUTorum,  ex  officina  Plantini- 
ana.     1595.  870. 
Joannis  Saresberienda  Metalogicus.    £  codice  MS.  Academie  Cantabrigi 
ensis,  nunc  primum  editus.     Parinia,  apud  Uadrianum    Beys,    Yik 
Jacobea.     1610.    8to. 
The  Epiitlea  of  John  of  Salisbury  printed  with  those  of  Grerbert  and  Stephen 

of  Tournay,  by  Masson,  4to.    Paris,  1611. 
Magna  Bibliotbeca  Vetenun  Patrum,  et  Antiquorum  Scriptornm  Ecclesias- 
tioorum,  Tomus  Decimusqulntus,  sive  Supplementum,  Tel  Appendix. 
Colonise  Agrippinse,  162S.  fol.  pp.  338-498,  Joannis  Saresberiensis 
Policraticus  :  sive  de  nugis  curialium,  et  vestigiis  philosophorum,  libri 
octo. — pp.  498 — 612,  EpistolK  Joannis  Saresberiensis  episcopi  Camo- 
tenais,  studio  et  industria  Papyrii  Massoni  in  lucem  editae. 
An  edition  of  the  Metalogicus  is  said  to  have  been  printed  at  Leyden,  in 
1630,  but  this  is  perhaps  an  error,  as  the  edition  of  1639»  printed  at  the 
same  place,  is  stated  in  the  title  to  be  the  second. 
According  to  Fabricius,  the  portion  of  the  Commentary  on  the  Epistles  of 
St.  Paul  which  relates  to  the  Epistle  to  the  CoUossians  was  printed 
in  1630. 
Joannis  Saresberiensis  Policraticus,  sive  de  nugis  curialium,  et  Testigiis  phi- 
losophorum,  libri  octo.    Lugduni  Batayorum,  ex  officina  Joannis  Maire. 
1639.    8vo.    To  this  edition  is  added,  Joan.  Saresberiensis  Metalogi- 
cus, e  codice  manuscripto  Academite  Cantabrigiensis.    Editio  altera, 
priore  accuratior  et  emendatior. 
The  Commentaries  on  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul,  attributed  to  John  of  Salis- 
bury, are  said  to  have  been  printed  at  Amsterdam,  4to.  1646. 
The  Eutheticus  (or  metrical  introduction  to  the  Polycraticus)  and  the  poem 
De  membris  conspirantibus,  were  printed  with  a  poem  by  Fulbert  of 
Chartres,  by  Andreas  Rivinus,  Lips.  1655,  8to. 
Johannis  Saresberiensis  Policraticus,  with  the  Metalogicus,  Amsterdam, 

1664,  small  8vo. 
Maxima  Bibliotheca  Veterum  Patrum.    Tomus  Vigesimus  Tertius.    Lug- 
duni, 1677»  fol.  pp.  243 — 409.     Johannis  Sariabiriensis  Policraticus,  sive 
de  nugis  curialium  et  yestigiis  philosophorum,  libri  octo. — pp.  410 — 535. 
Epistolae  Joannis  Sarisberiensis  episcopi  Carnotensis. 
Epistolae  et  Vita  divi  Thomae  Martyris  et  Archiepiscopi  Cantuariensis  . . 
opera  et  studio  F.  C.  Lupi.    Bruxellis,  1682,  4to.     Ninety- three  letters  of 
John  of  Salisbury  are  printed  in  this  volume. 
Anglia  Sacra,  sive  CoUectio  Historiarum  antiquitus  scriptarum  de  archi- 
eplscopis  et  episcopis  Anglise.  (by  Henry  Wharton.)   Pars  Secunda.  Lon- 
dini,  1691 ,  fol.  pp.  151 — 176.   Vita  S.  Anselmi  archiepiscopi  Cantuariensis, 
authore  Johanne  Sjirisburiensi  episcopo  Camotensi. 
Martene,  Thesaurus  Novus  Anecdotorum,  Tomus  Primus.     Lutet.  Paris. 
1717,   fol.  coll.  596,  597,  602,  604.    A  charter  and   three  previously 
inedited  letters  of  John  of  Salisbury. 


Pied  llBO.Jl  ADAM    HV    PETIT   PONT.  245 

Jo.  Alb.  Fabricii  Bibliotheca  Latina  Mediae  et  Infimse  leUtis.  Patavu,  1754, 
torn.  iv.  p.  296.     Joannls  Saresberiensis  de  Membris  ConspLrantibiu. 

Recaeil  des  HUtoriens  des  Gaoles  et  de  la  France.  Tome  seizl^me.  Par 
Michel-Jean-Joseph  Brial.  A  Paris,  1814.  fol.  pp.  438—625,  Joannis 
SaresberieQsis,  qui  fait  Camotensis  episcopus,  epistolee  cvi. 

Johannis  Saresberiensis  Entheticos,  de  Dogmate  PhilosopKorum,  nunc 
primum  editus  et  commentariis  instmctus  a  Christiano  Petersen.  Ham- 
burg!, 1843.  8yo. 

Tranglation. 

A  French  translation  of  the  Polycraticus,  by  Meserai,  under  the  title,  Va- 
nit^  de  la  Conr,  par  Jean  de  Sarisb^ry,  is  said  to  have  been  printed  at 
Paris  in  1640,  4to.  but  no  copy  appears  now  to  be  known  to  exist. 


ADAM  DU  PETIT  PONT. 

This  celebrated  teacher  in  the  university  of  Paris  was 
an  Englishman  by  birth^  as  we  learn  from  the  writings  of 
his  friend^  John  of  Salisbury.  He  studied  at  Paris  under 
Matthew  of  Angers  and  Peter  Lombard^  and  he  after- 
wards opened  a  school  near  the  Petit  Pont,  from  which 
he  took  his  name.  He  taught  chiefly  grammar  and  legic^ 
and  was  so  warm  an  advocate  of  the  method  of  Aristotle 
that  he  was  sometimes  designated  by  the  name  of  Adam 
the  Peripatetic.  John  of  Salisbury  accuses  him  of  having 
introduced  a  refined  subtilty  of  reasoning  which  degene- 
rated into  a  system  of  quibbling.  Adam  was  subsequently 
made  a  canon  of  Ndtre  Dame^  after  which  he  taught  only 
theology.  We  know  few  dates  or  facts  in  the  life  of  this 
eminent  scholar ;  but  he  was  at  the  council  of  Paris  under 
pope  Eugene  III.  in  1147,  when  the  opinions  of  Gilbert 
de  la  Porree  were  condemned;  and  he  went  to  the  Lateran 
council  in  1179  to  defend  his  old  teacher,  Peter  Lombard. 
Previous  to  this  latter  date  he  had  settled  in  England, 


246  6IRARD  LA  PUCELLB»  {Died  1 184. 

and  in  1176  he  was  made  bishop  of  St.  Asaph's.     He  died 
in  1180. 

No  fragment  of  the  writings  of  Adam  da  Petit  Pont  is 
preserved.  John  of  Salisbury  speaks  of  him  as  a  man  of 
great  learning,  and  mentions  his  book  entitled  Ar^  DU~ 
serendi,  which  he  says  was  written  in  a  confused  and  in- 
tricate style.  Pits  and  Bale  ascribe  to  him  four  books  of 
commentaries  on  Peter  Lombard^  and  some  other  works^ 
which  are,  perhaps,  mere  suppositions  of  those  inaccurate 
bibliographers.* 


GIRARD  LA  PUCELLE. 

GiBARD  LA  PucELLE  (in  Latin  Girardus  Puella)  was 
one  of  the  most  celebrated  professors  of  the  university  of 
P^s  in  the  latter  half  of  the  twelfth  century .f  Roger  of 
Croyland^  one  of  the  earlier  writers  of  the  life  of  HThomas 
Becket,  states  that  he  was  an  Englishman  ;|  and  he  ap- 
pears to  have  entered  the  church  at  an  early  age.  He  is 
said  to  have  taught  at  Paris,  with  occasional  and  long  in- 
terruptions^ from  1160  to  1 177^  and  he  enjoyed  the  espe- 
cial esteem  of  the  French  king^  which  however  he  lost  by 
suddenly  quitting  Paris  to  establish  himself  at  Cologne^ 
then  the  seat  of  a  schism  in  the  church  raised  by  the 
archbishop,  Rainold.  The  church  was  much  scandalised 
by  the  public  secession  of  an  ecclesiastic  of  so  much 

*  Compare  on  tliis  writeri  John  of  Salifburyi  Metelog.  lib.  li.  c.  10, 
Ub.  iii.  c.  3y  and  lib.  iv.  c.  3,  and  the  Entheticiu,  p.  8»  3,  with  Piof.  Peter- 
sen's notes»  with  the  article  in  the  Hist.  Lit.  de  France,  torn.  xiv.  p.  189. 

f  We  know  his  personal  history  chiefly  from  some  letters  in  the  coUeetioB 
of  those  of  Thomas  Becket.  See  the  article  in  the  Hist.  Lit.  de  Fr.  to». 
xIt.  p.  301. 

%  Koi^er,  CroUaad,  in  QuadiUog.  cited  byTamier. 


Died  1184.]         gibabd  la  pucellb.  247 

celebrity  as  Girard^  and^  although  he  declared  that  he  had 
not  joined  the  party  of  the  schismatics,  every  effort  was 
made  to  withdraw  him  from  intercourse  with  them.  He 
at  length,  partly  by  the  intervention  of  Becket,  obtained 
permission  to  settle  in  England ;  but  his  stay  there  was 
short,  for  he  almost  immediately  returned  to  Cologne, 
and  accepted  a  benefice  from  the  schismatic  archbishop. 
For  this  act,  which  amounted  to  an  avowal  of  his  appro- 
bation of  the  schismatics,  Girard  was  excommunicated  by 
the  pope ;  yet  Becket  and  his  other  friends  again  inter* 
fered,  and  he  was  prevailed  upon  to  make  a  public  decla- 
ration that  he  condemned  the  schism,  and  to  resign  all 
the  benefices  he  had  received  at  Cologne,  on  condition  of 
being  absolved  from  the  sentence  of  excommunication 
and  being  permitted  to  return  to  his  school  at  Paris.  He 
appears  to  have  quickly  regained  the  favour  of  the  pope 
(Alexander  III.)  who  in  1 1 76  granted  in  his  favour  a  bull 
which  gave  ecclesiastical  professors  in  the  schools  the 
privilege  of  non-residence  on  their  church  benefices,  and 
a  letter  of  the  same  pontiff,  dated  the  15th  of  March,  1178, 
confirms  to  him  the  benefices  which  he  had  previously 
received  of  the  schismatics  of  Cologne.  In  1177,  at  the 
invitation  of  Richard  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  he  came 
again  to  England,  and  remained  attached  to  that  prelate^s 
household  until  1182  or  1183,  when  he  was  made  bishop 
of  Coventry,  or,  as  the  see  was  then  sometimes  called, 
Chester,  the  two  sees  being  then  joined  in  one.  He  died 
at  Coventry  on  the  13th  of  January,  1184,  and  was  buried 
in  his  cathedral. 

All  the  early  historians  who  mention  Girard  la  Pucelle 
agree  in  extolling  his  great  learning  and  eloquence,  and 
Roger  of  Croyland  distinctly  speaks  of  his  writings ;  yet 
we  have  now  no  other  trace  of  their  existence,  and  if  the 
writer  of  the  notice  of  Girard  in  the  Histoire  Litt^raire 


248       BARTHOLOMEW   BISHOP    OF    EXETER.   [^Died  1186. 

de  France  be  correct  in  ascribing  to  bim  tbe  lS3rd  letter 
of  tbe  collection  of  epistles  of  Tbomas  of  Canterbury^ 
(publisbed  under  tbe  name  of  Jobn  of  Salisbury),  it  is  tbe 
only  document  extant  wbicb  came  from  bis  pen. 


BARTHOLOMEW  BISHOP  OF  EXETER. 

Bartholomew  of  Exeter  was  one  of  tbe  most 
learned  tbeologians  of  tbe  reign  of  Henry  II.  He  appears  to 
bave  been  a  native  of  Brittany,*  and  be  probably  studied 
at  Paris.  We  bear  of  bim  first  as  arcbdeacon  of  Exeter, 
of  wbicb  see  be  was  cbosen  bisbop  in  1160.  Tbe  king 
seems  to  bave  been  opposed  to  bis  nomination,  until  ap- 
peased by  Tbeobald  arcbbisbop  of  Canterbury.  We  learn 
from  tbe  writers  of  tbe  time  tbat  Bartbolomew  was  remark- 
able for  bis  great  piety.  He  was  tbe  prelate  in  wbom 
Tbomas  of  Canterbury  and  Jobn  of  Salisbury  placed 
tbeir  entire  confidence,  and  to  wbom  during  tbeir  exile 
tbey  sent  aU  tbeir  instructions ;  yet  be  appears  to  bave 
acted  witb  so  mucb  prudence  tbat  be  never  compromised 
bimself  witb  tbe  court,  and,  after  Becket^s  deatb,  tbe 
king  employed  bim  as  bis  cbief  adviser  in  ecclesiastical 
affairs.  His  deatb  is  stated  by  Roger  Hovedenf  to 
bave  occurred  in  1184;  by  tbe  Wincbester  annalist  tit 
is  placed  in  1 1 86  j  and  Walter  Mapes  in  bis  work  de  Ntngis 
Curialiuniy  written  apparently  at  tbe  end  of  tbe  year  1187, 
speaksof  bim  as  still  alive  and  occupied  in  literary  pursuits, 
althougb  advanced  in  years.§ 

*  See  Jo.  Salisb.  Epist.  169. 
t  Roger  Hoveden,  Annal.  p.  633. 
X  Annel.  Winton.  ap.  Wharton,  Ang.  Sac.  vol.  i.  p.  30^. 
I  Bartholomcoa  Ezoniensis  episcopal,  vir  senex  et  facundos,  hoc  tem- 
pore Kribit.  W»  Map.  de  Nug.  Curial.  Dist.  i,  c.  \% 


Died  1186,1  Bartholomew  bishop  of  exeter.     249 

Giraldus  Cambrensis  speaks  of  Bartholomew  of  Exeter 
as  one  of  the  great  luminaries  of  his  country  ;*  yet  his 
writings^  most  of  which  appear  to  be  lost,  were  of  no  great 
importance.  The  work  by  which  his  name  is  best  known 
is  a  penitential,  compiled,  it  may  be  supposed,  chiefly  for 
the  use  of  his  own  diocese.  Several  copies  of  this  work 
are  preserved ;  t  it  consists  entirely  of  extracts  from  pre- 
vious works  of  the  same  description,  and  from  the  canons 
and  constitutions  of  the  church.  His  Dialogue  against 
the  Jews,  which  was  dedicated  to  his  friend  Baldwin 
bishop  of  Worcester,  is  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
Bodleian  Library.  Four  letters  of  Baldwin  bishop  of 
Exeter  are  found  among  the  Epistles  of  John  of  Salis- 
bury, j:  Leland  ascribes  to  him  a  treatise  De  Prcsdeatina" 
Hone  et  Libera  Arbitrio,  which  is  perhaps  the  same  as  that 
mentioned  by  Tanner  under  the  title  De  Fatalitate  et  Fato 
as  being  dedicated  to  Baldwin  bishop  of  Worcester,  and 
which  appears  to  be  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Oxford.  Bale  and  Pits  give  the  titles  of 
other  works,  some  6f  which  are  certainly  not  by  this 
Bartholomew.  The  chief  of  these  are  a  book  of  sermons 
said  to  have  commenced  with  the  words,  Tollite  jugum 
meum  9upeT  vos,  and  a  discourse  on  the  death  of  Thomas 
Becket,  beginning  with  the  words.  Secundum  multitudinem 
dolorum. 


*  Girald.  Cambren.  ap.  Wharton.  Ang.  Sac.  vol.  ii.  p.  425. 

t  There  ia  one  in  the  BritUh  Museum,  MS.  Cottont  Faustina  A.  viif . 

X  Epp.  991,  295,  297,  298. 


it50  [Flouriihed 


JOHN  DE  HAUTEVILLE, 

John  d«  H AUTVViiiLfi  wa9  oae  of  the  mo»t  remarkable 
l4^  paets  of  the  twelfth  century ;  yet  we  know  «o  little 
pf  hU  personal  hiatory  that  eyen  hU  name  has  been  the 
subject  of  mmj  doubts.  The  old  bibliographers  call  him 
Hanwill,  AnnieviUanus^  and  Hantvillensis ;  and  the  writers 
of  the  Histoire  litteraire  de  France  give  him  the  name  of 
Hantville^  and  suppose  that  he  was  a  native  of  the  hamlet 
of  Anville,  near  Evreux.  There  can  be  no  doubt  how- 
ever from  the  authority  of  the  manuscripts  that  the  name 
should  be  Hauville  or  Hauteville,  One  of  the  manu-» 
scripts  in  the  British  Museum  calls  him  Johannes  de  Al« 
villa  ;^  another  calls  him  Johannes  de  Hawilla  ;t  and  a 
third  saya  he  was  of  '^  Auville  beside  Rouen. '^t  ^^ 
name  John  de  Eigham^  which  has  also  been  given  to  this 
writer^  originated  in  an  «rror  of  some  person  who  mistook 
the  name  of  a  possessor  of  the  manuscript  in  which  the 
poem  of  John  de  Hauteville  is  contained^  for  that  of  the 
attthor.§  This  poem  is  a  singular  satire  on  the  man*> 
ners  of  tiie  age,  and  is  dedicated  to  Walter  de  Coiltaaeee, 
who  is  described  as  then  exchanging  the  bishopric  of 
Lincoln  for  the  archbishopric  of  Rouen,  a  circumstance 
which  fixes  the  date  of  the  composition  of  the  poem  to 

*  MS.  Harl.  No.  4066,  Incipit  Architrenius  ma§^tri  JobABnli  de  AItIUa. 

f  MS.  Cotton.  Vespafl.  B.  xiii.  Magister  Johannes  de  HaTTilla  compo« 
suit  ifltnm  libnim  de  peregrino  JohanniSi  et  eundem  libram  nominant  Ar* 
chitrenium. 

X  MS.  Reg.  15.  C.  v.  latum  libram  fecit  Johannes  de  Auoilla  juzta  Ro- 
themagum  ezistente  ducatn  Normanniae  sub  rege  Anglico. 

§  MS.  Cotton.  Vespas.  B.  xiii.  liber  fratris  Johannis  de  Eighom  (ovi 
Erghom)  in  qno  Bubscripta  continentur.  A  list  of  the  contents  of  the 
Tolnme  follows. 


in  1184.]  /OHN   DB   HAUTBVILLB.  351 

the  year  1184,  Beyeral  allusions  in  the  poem  would  lead 
us  to  belieye  that  its  author  had  passed  a  part  of  his  life 
in  Eingland :  but  there  appears  to  be  no  evidence  for  die 
assertions  of  former  biographers  that  John  de  HauteriUe 
was  educated  in  this  island,  or  tiiat  he  was  a  monk  of  SU 
Albania. 

The  only  poem  known  to  have  been  written  by  John 
de  Hauteville  bears  for  title  the  name  of  its  hero,  Archi- 
trenius,  a  personage  who  is  introduced  lamenting  perpe- 
tually oyer  the  mismes  and  vices  of  mankind.  The 
Latinity  and  versification  are  oftMi  respectable,  and  some- 
times approach  to  purity  and  elegance ;  but  its  author 
falls  into  the  common  vice  of  the  medieval  poets,  of  dwel- 
ling BO  long  on  his  images  and  descriptions  that  they  become 
extremely  tedious.  In  the  greater  number  of  manuscripts, 
the  poem  is  prefaced  by  a  brief  prologue  or  argument  in 
prose,  stating  the  plan  of  the  work.  The  poem  itself, 
which  commences  witii  these  lines, — 

VeMcatur  Athoe,  dubio  mare  ponte  ligatar, 
Remus  arat  collefli  pedibus  Bubsternitor  unda, 

opens  with  some  general  observations  on  the  vice  of  sloth, 
and  on  others  which  arise  out  of  it,  frovtx  which  the  writer 
suddenly  turns  to  address  Walter  de  Coiitances,  to  whom 
the  book  is  dedicated — 

O  ctgofi  studio,  quo  remige,  nayigat  «sta 

Mnndanoque  mari  tamidis  exempta  proeeSit 

Linconise  sedes,  o  quem  non  pneterit  «qui 

CalculoBi  0  cvjas  momm  redolentia  coelum 

Spondet,  et  cbk  neqak  Tirtos  aitissima  mijor, 

IndiTisa  miaor,  cajus  se  nomen  et  astria 

Inserit,  et  famse  litao  circmnsonat  orbem. 

O  quem  Rotomagi  sedes  vidnata  maritnm 

Sperat  et  aspirat,  solidisqne  amplexibus  ardet 

Astrinzisse  yiram,  fragrantis  odorlbus  uti 

Momm  deUdis,  yiitiitis  aromate,  sponsi 

Pectore,  quod  Fhceibiim  rtivlet,  quod  NMtora  pbgoty  ket 


252  JOHN  DB  HAUTEViLLE.  \_Fiouri8hed 

When  the  poet  has  concluded  his  eulogy  of  the  new 
archbishop^  Architrenius  is  first  introduced^  as  a  youth 
just  arrived  at  years  of  maturity;  he  passes  in  review  the 
various  circumstances  of  his  life,  and  laments  that  so  litde 
of  it  has  been  devoted  to  virtue.  He  breaks  into  loud 
complaints  against  Nature,  who  has  made  him  weak  and 
liable  to  temptations,  and  he  determines  to  set  out  on 
foot  in  search  of  her,  and  beg  her  assistance  to  enable  him 
to  contend  with  them.  On  his  way  he  first  arrives  at  the 
palace  of  Venus,  where  he  finds  the  goddess  surrounded 
with  young  damsels,  whose  hearts  she  inflames.  The  de- 
scription of  one  of  the  companions  of  Venus,  who  ex- 
celled in  beauty  all  the  rest,  occupies  the  latter  part  of 
the  first  book  and  the  earlier  portion  of  the  second, 
each  particular  member  or  part  of  the  body  forming 
the  subject  of  a  separate  chapter.  The  description  of 
Cupid  and  of  his  dress,  which  follows,  is  alike  long  and 
tedious.  Architrenius,  pursuing  his  pilgrimage,  arrives 
at  the  abode  of  gluttony,  and  the  poet  indulges  in  severe 
satire  on  the  prevalence  of  this  vice  in  his  days.  The 
questions  which  chiefly  attracted  the  attention  of  gour- 
mands, and  the  eagerness  with  which  they  were  discussed, 
are  told  in  some  elegant  lines : 

Inter  yentricolas  yenatar  qaaBstio»  piece 
Quis  colitnr  meliore  lacuSi  quis  fertilis  aer 
AlidboB,  quse  terra  feras  producat  edales  ; 
Quos  assare  cibos,  qnos  elixare»  palati 
Luxuries  discincta  velit,  quK  fercola  molU 
Jure  natent,  qun  sicca  gule  trudantur  avemo  ; 
Qua  juris  jactura  meri  redimatur  in  unda, 
Qnot  capiat  factura  modos,  quo  foedere  nodet 
Appositos  miztnra  cibos,  quo  frixa  paratu 
Ezacuant  gustus,  que  corpora  cnra  nepotum 
Dictet  aromatico  panis  mandare  supulchro, 
Quse  novitas  adjecta  cibis  epulonis  acutum 
Commendet  studium ;  nam  quevis  prima  voluptas 
Delitiaji  noYitate  capit ;  nam  gratia  rebus 


in  1184.]  JOHN   DE    HAUTE VILLB.  253 

Frompta  novis,  prednmque  veniti  pracepsque  bonorum 
Gloria,  temporibus  recipit  fragmenta  favoria. 
Quidque  dapes  varise  prosunt,  possintne  cadentem 
Erexisse  famenii  nam  prona  paratibus  iisdem 
Occurrit  facies,  recipit  fomenta  dbomm 
Alternata  fames,  diyersaque  fercula  guatus 
Invitant,  similesqiie  creant  fastidia  mensae. 

The  wines  are  a  subject  of  no  less  anxious  discussion  than 
the  meats^  and  were  the  cause  of  still  greater  excesses^  in 
which  the  natives  of  our  island  are  more  especially  accused 
of  indulging.  The  following  lines  describe  an  English 
drinking  party  in  the  twelfth  century : — 

Consedere  duces,  et  Bacchi  stante  corona 
Surgit  ad  os  paterae  dominas  septemplicis  Ajax 
Anglicns,  et  calice  similis  contendit  Ulixes. 
Hsec  ibi  fanduntur  Baccho  prseconia,  tales 
Multiplicat  plansns  plebes  devota  refertis 
Incnbuisse  cipbis,  erroris  prodiga,  mente 
Saucia  langnenti,  rationis  dedita  sacrum 
Extinxisse  jubar,  rapido  submersa  Lyeo. 
Ergo  vacante  cipbo  distincto  gutture  uuetheil 
Ingeminant,  uuesheii.    Labor  est  plus  perdere  vini 
Quam  sitis,  exbaurire  merum  studiosius  ardent 
Quam  exbaurire  sitim  ;  commendatiTa  Lyei 
Est  sitis,  et  candens  calices  iterare  palatum 
Imperiosa  jubet,  ad  Bacchi  munera  dextros 
Blandius  invitat ;  pluris  sunt  pocnla,  pluris 
Ariditate  sitis,  Bacchusque  ad  vota  perustse 
Candentisque  guise  recipit  crementa  favoris. 

The  author  turns  from  the  picture  of  gluttony  to  the  praise 
of  sobriety,  and  describes  the  frugal  table  of  Philemon  and 
Baucis.  Architrenius  meanwhile  pursues  his  way,  and  at 
the  end  of  the  second  book  he  arrives  at  Paris,  which  was 
then,  by  the  celebrity  of  its  university,  looked  upon  as 
the  centre  of  learning  in  Europe.  The  third  book  is  al- 
most entirely  occupied  with  the  miseries  and  sufferings  of 
the  scholars,  and  affords  an  interesting  picture  of  scho- 
lastic life  at  this  early  period.  The  poet  describes  the 
poverty  and  personal  appearance  of  the  students : — 


S54  sonif  Dfe  HAVTCViLLi.         [Fhuti^hid 

Non  colviise  eomiuii  stadio  delectet  aitttitit 
Pectinifly  ernmtiqae  Viam  moftastriisfle  dapiUo  $ 
Langnenti  stomacho  ulttdi  noH  sentit  e^ftas 
CultuB  delidtui)  disflvada  llbidiaia  odit 
Pectinia  arte  coli»  formsB  oofltenta  reniuto 
Quam  natura  dedit }  ifaajor  depeltore  pngiiat 
Sollicitudo  fameiti}  gtatiorcin  g^tla  eryoiiiiDi 
Qnse  Thietim  ore  bibens  animo  bibit  ebria  Phoebom. 

He  dwells  on  the  meanness  of  their  dress^  on  their  bad 
lodgings^  spare  nourishment^  and  hard  beds^  on  the  base- 
ness of  those  who  served  them^  the  excessive  htbour  re- 
quired to  become  master  of  the  seven  arts )  he  pictures 
them,  after  having  spent  a  great  part  of  the  night  in  study, 
roused  from  their  sleep  before  daylight  to  attend  the  lec- 
tures of  the  masters,  treated  there  with  continual  rude- 
ness, and  finally,  after  having  surmounted  all  the  difficul- 
ties of  their  path,  obliged  to  see  the  rewards  and  honours 
for  which  they  were  striving  distributed  with  unjust  par- 
tiality on  those  who  have  least  deserved  them — 

Pnemla  quie  Davus  recipit  meraiaset  Homern*. 

The  labours  and  toils  of  the  schools  end  in  pride  and 
vanity,  by  which  the  philosophers  of  the  ttvelfth  century 
too  often  made  themselves  remarkable;  while  the  rich  and 
great  squandered  their  wealth  on  base  jogelours  and  min- 
strels, instead  of  applying  it  to  the  encouragement  of  true 
learning  and  merit.  Architrenius  turns  from  this  scene, 
and,  at  the  beginning  of  the  fourth  book,  arrives  at  the 
mount  of  ambition,  which  is  covered  with  beautiful  gar- 
dens and  flowers,  and  watered  by  a  limpid  stream  which 
runs  from  the  top  over  shining  pebbles  of  gold  and  silver. 
At  the  summit  he  beheld  a  vast  and  stately  palace.  The 
poet  now  proceeds  to  treat  of  the  evils  which  spring  from 
ambition,  and  gives  a  long  and  interesting  description  of 
the  manners  and  corruptions  of  the  court.  Not  far  from 
the  mountain  of  ambition  he  found  the  hill  of  presump- 


In  1184.]  iOftfr  Dtt  ttAtTtlBVILL>4  iSB 

tion  {eottis  prasuthpHofM)  tehich  is  desciibdd  ftt  tiie  be- 
ginning of  th6  fifth  book.  Its  inhabitants  wete  chiefly 
ecclesiastics^  doctors  or  masters^  and  monks,  and  he  is  led 
to  ft  bitter  satire  on  the  manners  of  the  clergy.  Hie  scho- 
lastic  profesiiors  Were  ihore  often  presumptuous  than 
leanifed  f— 

Hie  TolgiiB  cathedrM  rapta  ddtate  magistri 
Inailiti  et  Tactut  de  mojestate  tamorem 
CoDdpit,  impnbii  et  ttiento  ct  luente  Tlrentlf 
Crndiia  adhac  sacoo  juyenem  soUdosqiie  virilM 
PneYeniens  calmosi  nee  ihaturata  aenecte 
t^dpid  lamro  noii  expectaaae  reretor. 
Hoa  ego  pfntereo  tactoa  dne  nomine»  roaque 
Pnrterit  ignotua  insania  nota  magiater. 
O  rabies  sedisse  Rabi,  dtilciqae  MinervK 
Intomrfase  tuba,  nondtna  patientlbiti  annia. 
Hie  in  philoaopboa  auaa  eat  aftrire  flagdlo 
Mortis  alumna  famea,  animoqne  potentia  Phoebi 
Pignora  panperiea  corarom  umberat  Hydra. 

In  his  zeal  against  this  vice  the  poet  complains  of  the 
presumption  of  old  age^  which  had  dared  to  whiten  the 
looks  of  good  king  Henry* 

Hie  nbi  delegit  smnmam  pnesnmptio  iedem, 
Inserpit  festina  oomia,  erispatqne  aenecta 
Henrici  fadem»  quern  flaya  Britannia  regem 
Jactat,  eoqne  dace  titulia  Normannia  ridet, 
tit  bdli  et  pads»  totamqne  snpermeat  orbem^ 
Indole  qnam'  belli  nunqnam  fregere  tnmnltna, 
Dedididtque  Tiram  gladio  matnra  juYentnai 
Hia  vemare  genia  setemnm  debolt  svl. 

Architrenius,  ever  lamenting  and  weeping  over  the  vani- 
ties of  the  world,  turns  away  from  the  prospect^  and  beholds 
a  hideous  monster,  whose  head  extends  to  the  skies.  This 
was  cupidity,  a  vice  on  which  the  poet  proceeds  to  mo- 
ralise, attacking  more  especially  the  avarice  and  greediness 
of  the  prelates  of  his  days.  The  wanderer  is  interrupted 
in  his  reflections  by  the  noise  of  a  terrible  combat  be* 
tween  the  prodigals  and  the  misers  {inter  largos  et  avaros) ; 


256  JOHN  DE  HAUTEViLLE.         [Flourished 

and  he  here  enters  into  details  taken  from  the  fabulous 
British  History  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  or  from  popular 
romances.  In  the  sixth  book  he  is  suddenly  carried  to 
distant  Thule,  where  he  finds  the  ancient  Grecian  philo- 
losophers,  who  are  introduced  declaiming  against  the  vices 
of  mankind,  and  their  declamations  continue  through  the 
seventh  and  part  of  the  eighth  books.  Architrenius 
listens,  and  continues  his  lamentations,  until  suddenly 
lifting  up  his  eyes  he  beholds  before  him  a  beautiful 
woman,  in  the  midst  of  a  flowery  plain,  surrounded  by  nu- 
merous attendants.  Learning  that  this  lady  was  Nature, 
he  throws  himself  at  her  feet :  but  before  listening  to  his. 
prayer  she  delivers  a  long  discourse  on  natural  philosophy, 
which  is  continued  to  the  middle  of  the  ninth,  or  last, 
book.  Architrenius  then  tells  his  griefs  and  misfortunes, 
and  relates  what  he  has  seen  in  his  wanderings.  Dame 
Nature  takes  pity  on  his  sufferings,  consoles  him  by  giving 
him  a  beautiful  wife  named  Moderation,  and  ends  with  a 
chapter  of  good  counsel  on  his  conjugal  duties. 

This  poem  appears,  by  the  numerous  manuscripts  still 
extant,  to  have  been  extremely  popular  during  the 
thirteenth  and  fourteenth  centuries.  It  was  made  the 
subject  of  learned  commentaries.  But  we  have  no 
traces]  of  any  other  work  by  the  same  author.  There  is 
no  reason  for  attributing  to  John  de  Hauteville  the  me- 
trical treatise  De  Epistolarum  Compositione  which  follows 
the  Architrenius  in  a  manuscript  at  Oxford  ;*  and  the  old 
bibliographers  seem  to  have  had  no  authority  for  ascribing 
to  him  the  poem  De  Rebus  Occultis,  or  the  ^^Epigrammata, 
episiolasj  etpoemata/^  mentioned  by  Bale. 

Edition. 

An  edition  of  the  Architrenius  was  printed  by  Jodocus  Badius  Assenaius,  in 
small  4to.  Paria,  1517|  hot  is  so  extremely  rare  that  we  have  not  been 
able  to  obtain  sight  of  a  copy. 

«  MS.  Digby,  No.  64. 


Flourished  1185.]  257 


JOCELIN  OF  PURNESS. 

JocELiN^  distinguished  as  a  writer  of  biographies^  chiefly 
of  saints^  was  a  monk  of  Fumess  abbey  in  Lancashire, 
Tanner  seems  to  think  that  he  was  a  Welchman.  It  ap- 
pears from  the  prologue  to  his  life  of  St.  Patrick^  which 
he  compiled  at  the  request  of  Thomas  archbishop  of 
Armagh  and  Malachias  (another  Irish  prelate)  and  John 
de  Curcy  the  conqueror  of  Ulster,  that  he  flourished 
about  the  year  1185.  This  life  is  a  mere  compilation  from 
the  vulgar  legends  relating  to  the  saint  which  were  then 
current  in  Ireland,  and  has  no  historical  value,  as  may  be 
judged  from  the  following  example ; 

De  tripliei  pettUentia  de  Hibemiaper  taneium  Patrieium  ^ffitgata, 

SanctiBsimuB  Patricius  pestilentiae  tripliei  eliminandsB  sumtnam  operam 
et  diligentiam  adhibaiti  et  torn  lalutari  docfcrina,  tarn  ferveotiuims  ora- 
tio&is  obtenta,  Hibemiam  bujus  grassantis  veneni  ezsortem  ezhibuit.  ;  Ipse 
Damque  pastor  pnestantissimiis  mana  Domini  Jesu  baculam  bajulavit,  ejus- 
que  elevatione  comminatoria  omnia  yenenata  animantia,  angelico  snffultus 
suifragio,  ez  nniversis  Hibernise  partibus  in  nnum  congregavit.  Deinde 
omnia  usqne  ad  editissimnm  insulse  promontorium  in  fogam  compulit,  quod 
scilicet  Crttaehan-ailge  dicebatur  tunc,  nunc  vero  Cruach-pkadruig  dicitur^ 
ibique  totam  turbam  pestiferam  de  prieropta  mentis  crepidine,  in  Tirtate 
prseeepti,  pnecipiti  lapsn  oceano  absorbendam  depnlit.  O  signnm  insigne  I 
O  miraculum  magniiicam,  a  mundi  ezordio  inexpertnm,  nunc  tribubus» 
populis,  et  Unguis  compertnm,  cunctis  fere  nationibns  notorium,  specialiter 
Hiberni»  incolis  pernecessarium !  Hnic  tarn  miracnloso  tamqae  peratili 
spectacoio  nnmerosns  populus  intererati  quorum  pars  plurima  ad  signa 
▼idenda,  qusedam  ad  verba  Titse  percipienda  nndique  confluzerat.  Convertit 
deinde  faciem  suam  versus  Manniam  et  cssteras  insulas,  quas  fide  Cbristi  et 
sacramentis  imbuit,  et  benedizit,  ac  precum  suarum  obtentu  reptUium 
yenenatorum  omnes  iilas  tantum  ezpertes  fecit  et  reddidit. 

Jocelin  was  also  the  author  of  a  life  of  St.  Kentigem, 
first  bishop  of  Glasgow,  which  is  dedicated  to  Jocelin, 
bishop  of  the  same  see  from  1174  to  1199,  and  is  preserved 

VOL.  II.  s 


258  BENOiT  DE  SAINTE-MAUR.         [Fhurtshed 

in  a  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum  (MS.  Cotton. 
Vitellius,  C.  viii.) ;  of  a  life  of  St.  Helen,  an  abridgment  of 
which  is  cited  by  Tanner  as  being  found  in  a  manuscript 
in  the  Bodleian  Library ;  and  of  a  life  of  David  king  of 
Scotland,  extracts  from  which  will  be  found  in  the  sixth 
book  of  Fordun^s  Scotichronicon.  As  it  is  recorded  that 
bishop  Jocelin  amplified  his  see,  and  enlarged  and  adorned 
his  church  of  St  Kentigem,  in  1181,  we  may  conjecture 
that  the  Life  of  St.  Kentigem  was  composed  on  that  occa* 
sion.^  Stowe,  in  his  Survey  of  London,  mentions  a  history 
of  the  bishops  of  the  Britons  fDe  Britonum  episcopisj  by 
Jocelin  of  Fumess.f 

EditioH, 
Florilegium  Insuls  sanctonimi  seu  Vitee  et  Acta  Sanctorum  Hibemiae   .  .  . 
Omnia  . .  •  collegit,  et  pnblicabat  Thomas  Metsinghamus.     ParisiiB, 
16^1  fol.  pp.  1—85,  Jocelini  monachi  de  Fomesio  Vita  Sancti  Patricii. 


BENOIT  DE  SAINTE-MAUR. 

There  are  strong  reasons  for  believing  that  this  trouv^re 
was  a  native  of  the  little  town  of  Sainte-Maur  in  the  dis- 
trict of  Tours,  and  that  he  was  a  monk  or  clerk  of  the 
monastery  of  Marmoutier  in  that  place4  We  know  nothing 
more  of  his  personal  history  than  that  he  was  patronised 
by  Henry  II.  by  whose  direction  he  composed  his  metrical 
history  of  the  dukes  of  Normandy,  a  circumstance  which 

*  JocelinuB  episcopna  sedem  episcopalem  dilatavit,  et  lancti  Kentegemi 
ecclesiam  gloriose  magnlficavit.    Chronica  de  Mailroa,  ed.  Steyenson,  p.  91. 

t  Stowe'8  London,  p.  177  (Ed.  1842). 

X  This  information  is  deduced  chiefly  from  the  cirenmstance  of  a  fine  MS. 
of  the  Chronicle  of  the  Dukes  of  Normandy  haying  been  recently  discovered 
at  Tours,  which  had  belonged  to  the  abbey  of  Marmoutier.  See  the  ap- 
pendix to  the  third  yolume  of  M.  Michel's  edition  of  Benoit. 


1180.]  BENOIT  BE  SAINTB-HAUS.  259 

excited  the  jealousy  of  a  rival  poet,  Wace.*  As  he  ap« 
pears  to  have  been  younger  than  the  author  of  the  Roman 
de  Rou,  we  may  suppose  that  Benoit  de  Sainte-Maur 
flourished  about  the  year  1180. 

The  earliest  of  Benoifs  two  great  poems  was,  probably, 
his  metrical  romance  of  the  History  of  Troy,  a  subject  of 
great  interest  in  the  middle  ages,  because  most  of  the 
western  nations,  pretended  to  trace  their  origin  to  the 
dispersion  of  the  Trojans.  The  poem  of  Benoit  is  chiefly 
a  paraphrase  of  the  suppositious  history  of  the  Phrygian 
Dares,  with  some  additions  from  the  similar  work  pub- 
lished under  the  name  of  Dictys ;  but  the  Anglo-Norman 
trouvere,  faithful  to  the  taste  of  his  age,  has  turned  the 
Grecian  and  Trojan  heroes  into  medieval  knights  and 
barons.  At  the  commencement  of  his  poem  Benoit  quotes 
the  authority  of  Salomon,  that  men  ought  not  to  conceal 
their  knowledge  from  the  world,  as  an  excuse  for  his  un- 
dertaking to  translate  this  history  from  the  Latin,  in  which 
it  was  hidden  from  the  unlearned.  He  then  gives  us  an 
account  of  the  original  authorities,  founded  on  the  preface 
to  the  pseudo-Dares.  Homer,  he  says,  was  a  marvel- 
lously learned  clerk,  but  he  lived  more  than  a  hundred 
years  after  the  events  he  describes,  and  his  want  of  veracity 
is  sufiiciently  evident.  The  people  of  Athens  fell  into  a 
great  "  contention**  regarding  him,  and  would  have  con- 
demned his  book  because  he  made  the  gods  fight  with 
mortals;  but  Homer  had  so  much  personal  influence, 
that  his  book  was  finally  received  as  authority,  t 

Omen,  qui  clen  fa  mervillonsy 
Et  sages  et  escuintious, 

*  See  before»  p.  SOT»  of  the  preseDt  volume. 

f  There  is  a  complete  MS.  of  the  Roman  de  Troye  in  the  Harleian 
Collection,  No.  4482,  from  which  onr  extracta  are  taken.  Long  extracts 
fh>m  a  MS.  in  the  library  of  St.  Mark  at  Yenioe,  are  printed  by  Keller, 
in  his  RomTart,  p.  86. 

s2 


260  BENOIT  DE  SAINTB-MAUR.     [Flourished 

EBcrit  de  la  destraction, 
Del  grant  siege,  de  roquoisoD) 
Par  col  Troie  fa  desert^e, 
Conqaes  puis  ne  fa  habitue ; 
Maia  ne  dit  pas  ses  Uyres  voir. 
Qaer  bien  sayons  de  fit  poar  Toir 
Qull  ne  fa  pais  de  cent  ans  nez, 
Qe  11  grans  os  fa  assamblez ; 
N'est  merveille  s'il  1  failli, 
Car  ains  verity  n*en  oi. 
Quant  il  en  ot  son  livre  fait, 
Et  i  Athenes  Tot  retrait, 
Si  ot  estrange  contenson  ; 
Dampner  le  vorrent  par  raison, 
Ponr  ce  qu'ot  fait  les  damrediex 
Combatre  o  les  bommes  mortez. 
Tenu  li  fu  k  desaerie, 
Et  ^  merveille  et  k  folie, 
Qae  les  dieas  o  bommes  bumains 
Faisoit  combatre  as  Troyens. 
Et  qaant  son  livre  reciterent, 
Poar  itant  si  le  refoserent. 
Mais  tant  fa  Omers  de  grant  pris, 
Qoe  tant  fist  pais,  si  com  je  lis, 
Qae  les  Uvres  fa  receas, 
Et  en  aactoriteit  tenas. 

Benoit  goes  on  to  inform  us  that  in  the  time  of  the 
Romans  lived  Sallust^  a  very  rich  and  learned  man,  who 
had  a  nephew  named  Cornelius.  Cornelius  was  sent  to 
study  at  Athens ;  and  there,  seeking  for  books  of  "  gram- 
mar" in  a  cupboard,  he  found  a  copy  of  the  original  work 
written  in  Greek  by  Dares. 

.T.  jour  qaeroit  en  an  aumaire 
Pour  traire  livres  de  gramaire, 
Tant  i  a  quia  et  triboul^, 
Qu'entre  les  aatres  a  trouvd 
L*estoire  que  Daires  ot  escrite. 
En  Grace  langne  faite  et  dite. 
Cis  Daires  dont  yus  9i  oez 
Fa  k  Troies  noorris  et  nez. 

Dares,  he  states,  had  been  present  at  the  siege  of 
Troy,  and  was  an  eye-witness  of  all  he  related.     His  book 


1180.]  BENOIT  DE  SAINTB-MAUR.  261 

had  long  been  forgotten^  when  it  was  discovered  by  Cor- 
nelius, who  lost  no  time  in  translating  it  into  Latin. 
Benoit  de  Sainte-Maur  translated  it  from  Cornelius's 
Latin  version  into  French. 

Ceste  hystoire  n'est  pas  us^e, 
Ne  en  gaires  de  lieus  trov^e ; 
Jk  retraite  ne  fhst  encore, 
Mais  Beneois  de  Sainte  More 
L'a  commencie  et  faite  et  dite, 
£t  k  808  mains  Ta  toate  escrite, 
l9i  taiUie,  19!  oavr^, 
19!  escrite,  iqfi  pos^e, 
Et  plus  ne  mains  n'i  a  mestier ; 
Ci  wet  Pestoire  commencier. 

The  Romance  of  Troy  contains  nearly  thirty  thousand 
lines.  It  is  a  heavy  and  dull  poem,  and  possesses  little 
interest  at  the  present  day ;  although  it  abounds  in  those 
repeated  descriptions  of  warfare  which  constituted  the 
great  beauty  of  such  productions  in  the  twelfth  century. 
Almost  the  only  passage  approaching  to  any  degree  of 
poetical  elegance  is  the  description  of  Spring,  in  the  ac- 
count of  the  departure  of  the  Argonauts  for  the  conquest 
of  the  golden  fleece,  which  has  been  quoted  by  M»  de  la 
Rue — 

Qnant  vint  el  tens  quHyers  derire, 
Que  Perbe  vers  point  en  la  rive ; 
Lorsque  fiorissent  li  ramel ; 
E  dolcement  chantent  oiseli 
Merle,  manvisi  e  loriol, 
£  estomel  e  rossignol, 
La  blanche  flor  pent  en  I'espine, 
E  reverdoie  la  gandine, 
Qnant  11  tens  est  dobt  et  soueat, 
Lor  sortirent  del  port  les  nez. 

The  Romance  of  Troy  was  so  much  admired  at  the 
time  of  its  publication,  that  its  author  was  requested  by 
Henry  II.  to  undertake  a  metrical  chronicle  of  the  dukes 


262  BBNOIT  DB  BAINTB-MAUB.      [FUmrtBhed 

of  Normandy^  which  also  has  been  presenred.*  That 
Benoit  received  many  benefits  from  this  monarch  is  evi- 
dent from  the  eagerness  with  which  he  seizes  every  oppor- 
tunity of  introducing  his  praise  into  his  work ;  he  speaks 
of  him  as 

-^^"  le  bon  rei  Henri  secimd, 
Flon  det  princes  de  tot  le  mnnd, 
Ki  fail  rant  dignes  de  memoire» 
E  ki  Deni  dnnt  force  e  vietoire, 
LoDse  Tie,  proiperit^, 
Senz  aisse  e  mm  ayereit^  I 
Saintisme  e  bone  seit  aa  fins  I 

And  in  another  place  he  thus  expresses  the  hope  that 
his  writuig  may  be  agreeable  to  the  king — 

Or  dunge  Dens  par  sa  du^or 
Qa'al  plaiflir  leit  de  mon  seignor, 
Del  bon  rei  Henri  fis  Mahent, 
Que  ai  benlgne  cum  il  aeut 
Seit  al  oir  e  al  entendre  1 
N'eat  paa  de  mes  pours  la  mendre 
Que  de  meaifire  e  de  mesfaire 
Chose  qui  ne  li  dele  plaire. 

The  metrical  chronicle  of  the  dukes  of  Normandy  by 
Benoit,  which  extends  to  thirty  thousand  lines,  begins 
with  a  brief  sketch  of  the  cosmographical  doctrines  of  the 
age,  which  leads  to  the  account  of  the  origin  of  the  Nor- 
mans and  their  first  piratical  voyages,  and  the  history  is 
continued  to  the  death  of  Henry  I.  The  larger  portion 
is  a  mere  paraphrase  of  the  Latin  histories  by  Dudo  of 
St.  Quentins  and  William  of  Jumi^ges,  with  some  slight 
additions  of  matter  not  found  in  those  authorities ;  but  it 

*  The  MS.  from  which  the  text  of  Benoit's  Chronicle  of  the  Dukes  of 
Normandy  has  been  printed,  is  presenred  in  the  British  Museum,  MS.  Harl. 
No.  1717.  A  second  manuscript  has  since  been  found  in  the  library  of  the 
city  of  Tours,  in  France.  In  the  introduction  to  the  first  Tohime  M.  Michel 
had  stated  hU  opinion  that  the  author  of  the  Chronicle  was  not  the  same 
person  as  the  author  of  the  Romance  of  Troy,  which,  howerer,  he  has  been 
induced  to  retract  by  the  drcnmstances  connected  with  the  second  MS. 


1180.]  BSNOIT  BE  8AINTB-1IAUB.  263 

is  inferior  as  a  historical  document  and  as  a  literary  com- 
position to  the  similar  work  of  Wace,  which  appears  from 
the  first  to  have  enjoyed  a  greater  degree  of  popularity. 
Among  the  few  narratives  peculiar  to  Benoit  is  that  of 
the  love  of  duke  Robert  and  Harlette,  the  mother  of 
William  the  Conqueror,  which  is  told  with  much  sim- 
plicity and  elegance.  The  following  description  of  Har- 
lette  is  a  favourable  specimen  of  the  poet's  style : 

A  Faldse  esteit  sojomanz 
Li  bont  dux  Robert  U  Norakanz ; 
Mult  U  ert  le  lens  covenables 
E  beaus  e  saiiiB  e  delitables, 
C*e8teit  uni  de  ses  grans  deporz 
Qu'od  danzeles,  ce  sui  reoorz. 
Un  jor  qu'il  yeneit  de  cbacier 
En  chobi  une  en  un  gravier» 
Denz  le  missel  d'un  fontenil^ 
Oh  en  blanchisseit  un  cheinsil 
Od  autres  filles  de  borgeis, 
Dunt  ayeit  od  li  plus  de  treis, 
Tirez  ayeit  ses  dras  ensus, 
Si  cum  puceles  unt  en  us, 
Par  enyeisure  e  par  geu 
Peeres  quant  sunt  en  itel  leu. 
Beaus  fa  li  jorz  e  li  tens  chauz ; 
Ce  que  ne  coyri  sis  blianz 
Des  piez  e  des  jambes  parurenty 
Qui  si  tr^s-beaus  e  si  blans  fiirent 
Que  ce  fu  bien  au  duo  ayis 
Que  neifs  ert  pale  e  flors  de  lis 
Ayers  la  soe  grant  blancheor : 
MeryeHles  i  toma  s*amor. 

Fille  ert  d*un  borzeis  la  puode, 
Sage  e  corteise  e  proz  e  bele, 
Bloie,  od  bel  front  e  od  beaus  oilz 
Ob  ja  ne  fitst  troyez  orguilz, 
Mais  benignitez  e  franchise ; 
Si  n'en  fn  nule  mieuz  aprise. 
£  s' ayeit  la  color  plus  fine 
Que  flors  de  rose  ne  d'espine, 
N^  bien  seant,  boche  e  menton  $ 
Biens  n'ont  plus  ayenant  fa9on» 


264  BENOIT  DE  8AINTE-MAUB*  [FlouHshed 

Ne  plus  bel  col  ne  plas  beaos  braz. 
Iteu  parole  tob  en  fu, 
Que  gente  fa  e  blanche  e  graue 
Eiasi  que  lea  beautez  treapaase 
Dea  aatrea  totea  dea  regn^, 
Pol  Tona  ai  dit  de  sa  beauts 
A  ce  qui  'n  ert,  ce  sachez  bien. 

The  following  lines  desciiptdve  of  Spring,  from  the 
account  of  RoUo's  departure  from  England,  may  be 
compared  with  the  similar  passage  of  the  Romance  of 
Troy: 

Quant  U  irtn  fu  treapaasezi 
Vint  11  dolz  tena  e  U  eates, 
Venta  Tanre  auere  e  quoie, 
Chanta  li  merlea  e  11  treie, 
Boia  reverdirent  e  prael, 
E  gent  florirent  11  ramel, 
Parut  la  roae  bnen  olanz, 
E  altrea  llors  de  maint  aemblanx. 

The  two  poems  described  above  are  the  only  works 
known  to  have  been  written  by  Benoit  de  Sainte-Maur. 
Tyrwhitt  ascribed  to  him  a  life  of  Thomas  Becket  in 
Anglo-Norman  verse^  and  the  abb^  de  la  Rue  believed 
him  to  be  the  author  of  a  song  on  the  crusade  in  the  same 
language,  found  at  the  end  of  the  Harleian  MS.  containing 
his  chronicle.  The  life  of  St.  Thomas  is  evidently  the 
work  of  a  later  writer  of  the  name  of  Benoit^  as  M.  de  la 
Rue  has  observed.  The  song  was  written  by  a  knight 
on  his  way  to  oin  the  crusade,  who  speaks  of  his  lady 
whom  he  had  left  behind  him,  and  could  not  therefore 
have  been  written  by  a  monk  of  Marmoutier. 

Edition. 

Collection  de  Documents  in^dits  sur  I'Histoire  de  France  public  par  ordre 
du  roi. — Chronique  dea  dues  de  Normandie,  par  Benoit,  trouv^re  Anglo- 
Normand  du  xii*.  si^de»  public  pour  la  premitire  fois  d'apr^a  un  manu- 
scrit  du  Mus^e  Britannique,  par  Frandsque  Michel.  Tome  I.  Paris, 
1836.    Tome  II.  Paris,  1838.    Tome  III.  Paris,  1844.  4to. 


1180.]  CLEMENT  OF  LANTHONY.  265 


CLEMENT  OF  LANTHONY. 

We  have  very  little  information  relating  to  this  writer, 
who  was  successively  sub-prior  and  prior  of  Lanthony.* 
We  learn  from  Giraldus  Cambrensis  that  he  was  attached 
to  study^  and  negligent  of  the  affairs  of  his  monastery, 
and  that  he  died  of  a  paralytic  stroke.f  As  he  is  witness, 
as  prior,  to  a  charter  of  David  bishop  of  St.  David^s,  j:  he 
must  have  been  chosen  to  that  office  before  the  year 
1 176,  when  that  prelate  died.  From  the  manner  in  which 
Giraldus  speaks  of  him,  Clement  appears  to  have  died 
about  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  or  early  in  that 
of  Richard  I.  Osbert  of  Stoke,  his  contemporary,  speaks 
of  him  as  one  of  the  most  illustrious  men  of  his  age  for 
learning  and  piety.§ 

The  work  by  which  Clement  was  best  known  was  a 
harmony  of  the  Gospels,  with  a  commentary  selected  from 
the  writings  of  the  fathers.  To  the  text  he  gave  the  title 
of  Series  Collecta,  and  to  the  accompanying  exposition 
that  of  Collectarium.  Several  manuscripts  of  this  work 
are  preserved,  ||  and  it  was  so  much  admired  that  towards 
the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century  an  English  version  was 

*  Wharton,  Anglia  Sacra,  torn.  ii.  p.  32S. 

t  Girald.  Camb.  Itin.  Cambrieey  lib.  i.  cap.  3. 

X  See  Tanner,  v.  Clemen»  Lanthonieiui», 

§  Venerabilis  prior  Lanhoudenensis,  Clemens  nomine  et  opere,  vir  sin-» 
gularis  religionis  et  elimate  scientie,  preeclarus  sno  illuzit  tempore  inter 
illustres  yiros  Anglise.  Osbert.  de  translatione  reliq.  D.  Eadbnrgte,  ap. 
Leland. 

II  The  MS.  from  which  our  extract  is  made  is  preserved  in  the  public 
library  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  where  it  stands  under  the  shelf-mark 
Dd,  1,  17.  The  work  is  there  entitled,  Incipit  concordia  quatuor  Evau- 
gelistamm,  historire  ordo  Evangelicfe,  et  Evangeliorum  manuale  breTiarium, 


266 


CLEH8NT  OP  LANTHONT.        [Flourished 


made^  supposed  to  be  the  work  of  one  of  the  followers  of 
Wycliffe,  of  which  also  several  copies  are  extant.*  The 
following  extract  from  the  preface  will  give  some  idea  of 
the  objects  of  the  writer,  and,  at  the  same  time,  furnish 
a  specimen  of  the  style  of  the  original  and  of  the  English 
translation : 


Prologut. 

Clemens    Lantoniensis    ecclesie 
preBbjter  n.  paoem  ntnmque.    Ha- 
ju  operii,  fill    carisaixne,    caiuam 
requirifl  et  fructum.     Quaeris  etiam 
qna  fretua  autoritate  quatuor  Evan- 
gellatamm  narrationea  In  nnam  con- 
traxerim.    Qnaeris  et  tituli  et  ordinis 
rationem.     Prima  igitur  duo,  caoaa 
scilicet  et  fnictns,  licet  circa  idem 
yersentor,  aliqua  tamen  distinctionis 
ratione  dividi  possnnt.    Causa  enim 
est  nt  pne  ocuUs  habeam  que  ab 
nnoqnoqne  quatuor  ETangelistanun 
sunt  dicta,  quae  prtetennissa,  quae 
prseoccnpata,  que  etiam  commemo- 
rata.  Non  enim  omnes  omnia  dicunt, 
et  quae  dicunt  non  omnia  secundum 
ordinem  natnralem  loco  suo  dicunt, 
sed  quae  pobterius  facta  praeoccupant, 
et  que  ante  facta,  postea  commemo- 
rant.     Unusquisque  tamen  Evange- 
listarumi  ut  ait  beatus  Augustinus, 
sic  contezit  narrationem  suam  ut 
tanquam  nihil  praetermittentis  series 
digesta  yideatur.    Tacitis  enim  quae 
non  yult  dicere,  sic  ea  quae  yult  dicere 
illis  quae  dicebat  adjuugit,  ut  ipsa 
continuo  sequi  yideantur.     Sed  cum 
alter  ea  didt  quae  alter  tacuit,  dili- 


Tke  prolog  on  oon  book  mood  (^ 
foure  ff09peUeris, 

Clement,  a  preest  of  the  chirobe 
of  Lantony,  gaderid  alle  the  sen- 
tensis  of  foure  gospeleleris  into  o 
story.    Thre  profytis  ben  of  this 
trayel.    The  firste,  for  a  man  may 
liaye  redily  what  tliinges  ben  seyd  of 
ech  gospeler  by  hym  silf,  and  whiche 
thingis  ben  lefte  out,  and  whiche 
ben  before  ocupied,  and  whiche  hen 
remembrid ;  for  not  alle  gospeleris 
seyen  alle  thingis,  and  the  thingis 
whiche  the!  seyen,  the!  seyen  not 
alle  thingis  by  kyndely  ordre  in  her 
place,  but  thei  bifore  ocupien  tho 
thingis  that  ben  don  aftirward,  and 
thei  remembren  aftirward  the  thingis 
that  ben  don  bifore.    Tho  thingis 
whiche  ech  gospeler  seith  by  hym  silf, 
ben  sette  forth  withouten  onyabreg- 
ginge  ;   tho  thingis  whiche  tweyne, 
either  thre,  either   foure  gospeleris 
seien,  ben  sette  oonys,  and  natheless 
what  eyere  thing  ech  of  hem  settith 
to  withouten   othere  is   set    forth 
opinly.    The  secunde  profyte  is  this, 
that  this  trayeyle  schewith  acordinge 
of  foure  gospeleris.  The  thridde  pro- 
fyte is  this,  that  this  trayel  declarith 


*  There  are  seireral  MSS.  of  the  English  yersion  in  the  British  Museum. 
Our  extract  is  made  from  MS.  Reg.  17  D.  VIII.  At  the  end  is  the  follow- 
ing rubric :  Here  eendith  oon  of  foure,  that  is  o  book  of  alle  foure  gospeleris 
gaderid  schortly  into  oo  story,  by  Clement  of  Lantony.  Blessid  be  the  holy 
IVynit^.    Amen. 


1180.] 


OLBMENT  OF  LANTHONY. 


267 


the  ordre  of  thlngla  don,  that  h'erby 
esier  entringe  of  undintondinge  be 
opyn  into  the  ordre  of  the  gospels, 
and  that  the  reioun  of  ordenatmce  of 
the  gospeli  be  clerer.  •  .  .  Clement 
settith  in  the  begynnynge  of  a 
chapitre  what  gospeler  seith  the  first 
ientence,  and  at  ech  sentenee  of 
another  gospeler  he  settith  the  name 
of  that  gospeler,  )he  for  o  word. 
So  that  in  many  placis  of  his  book 
the  names  of  the  gospeleris  oeiqrien 
mnche  more  space  than  the  sentencis 
don.  Therfore  leste  this  ofte  re- 
henringe  and  medlinge  of  the  names 
of  the  gospeleris  among  the  sentence 
schulde  make  the  sentence  dark  and 
combre  simple  mennes  wyttys,  I 
sette  in  the  bygynnynge  of  a  chapitre 
alle  the  gospelleris  that  tretyn  that 
chapitre,  and  in  what  place  of  the 
Bible. 


genter  ordo  consideratvfl  indioat 
locmn  nbi  ea  potaerit  a  quo  prteter- 
missa  sunt  transilire,  at  ea  quae 
dicere  intenderat  ita  snperioribus 
copnlaret,  tanqnamipsa  nnllis  inter- 
positis  sequerentur.  Fructns  antem 
hnjns  operis  triplex  est;  primus 
quod  brevitatis  compendium  prc- 
stat,  ea  tamen  quae  singnli  dicunt 
nulla  breTitate  contracta  sunt,  quK 
▼ero  duo  Tel  tres  yel  omnes  itera 
abbreriatione  restricta  sunt,  semel 
enim  posita  sunt,addito  tamen  quic- 
quid  quilibet  eorem  pneter  cseteros 
apponit.  Secundus  quia  concordiam 
quatuor  Evangelistarum  demonstrate 
nee  tamen  alium  alii  confert  quo 
dissidentes  vel  concordes  appareant, 
sed  loca  quasi  contraria  et  sibi  re- 
pugnantia  simul  ponit,  ut  ex  hoc 
diligent!  inquisitori  non  esse  dissi- 
dentia  innotescat.  Tertius,  quia 
ordinem  remm  gestarum  dedarat, 
ut  in  seriem  ipsorum  Eyangeliomm 
per  banc  distinctionem  facilior  in- 
telligentise  aditus  pateat,  et  evan- 
gelicsB  ordinationis  ratio  clarius  elu- 

cescat Ratio  tituli  ex  supra- 

dictis  patet ;  ordo  autem  necessitatis 
est,  aut  commoditatis,  aut  rationis. 
Necessitas  cogit,  [commoditas  aptat, 
ratio  narrationis  ordinem  non  de- 
mutat. 

It  is  said  that  the  work  was  left  incomplete  by  Clement 
of  Lanthony^  and  that  it  was  finished  at  a  much  later 
period  by  William  of  Nottingham.*  The  two  parts  seem 
to  have  been  considered  as  separate  works;  and  the 
simple  series  of  the  harmony  of  the  Gospels  is  often  found 
without  the  commentary.  It  is  so  found  in  the  English 
version. 

Clement  of  Lanthony  was  the  author  of  several  other 
works.     His  treatise  on  the  wings  of  the  cherubim  is 

*  See  Tanner,  Bibl.  r.  Clemetu  LanihonieniU. 


268  ROBERT  OF  BRIDLINGTON.  [FloWtshed 

found  in  numerous  manuscripts  in  the  libraries  of  Oxford 
and  Cambridge.  His  commentary  on  the  Acts  of  the 
Aposdes  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum  (MS.  Reg. 
2  D.  v.)  He  also  published  commentaries  on  the  canonical 
epistles,  which  are  presenred  in  the  archiepiscopal  library  at 
Lambeth.  Clement's  gloss  on  the  Psalter,  and  his  treatise 
De  arte  fidei  catholiae  are  extant  in  the  Bodleian  Li- 
brary, and  in  the  libraries  of  Trinity  and  Magdalene  col- 
leges^ Oxford.  Bale  also  ascribes  to  this  writer,  EpistoUe 
ad  diversos,  Lecture  scfiolastica,  and  a  treatise  De  orbibus 
astrologuAs. 


ROBERT  OF  BRIDLINGTON. 

Another  very  productive  theological  writer  of  this 
period  was  Robert  of  BridUngton,  who,  from  being  con- 
stantly occupied  in  writing,  was  commonly  known  by  the 
name  of  Robert  the  Scribe.  He  was  fourth  prior  of  the 
monastery  of  Bridlington,  and  in  Leland's  time  his  monu- 
ment might  still  be  seen  in  the  cloister,  before  the  entrance 
to  the  chapter  house,  with  the  inscription,  RobertuSy  cog^ 
nomento  Scriba^  qttarttts  prior.  His  writings  were  chiefly 
commentaries  on  the  Holy  Scriptures,  several  of  which 
are  still  extant  in  manuscript.  Leland  found  in  the  library 
of  the  priory  of  Bridlington,  where  they  were  then  care- 
fully preserved,  prior  Robert's  Commentaries  on  the  books 
of  Genesis,  Exodus,  Leviticus,  Numbers,  Deuteronomy, 
the  twelve  Prophets,  the  Psalter,  the  Gospels  of  St.  Mat- 
thew and  St.  John,  the  Epistles  of  St  Paul,  and  the 
Apocalypse,  with  a  Dialogue  de  corpore  et  sanguine  Domini 
and  a  treatise  de  ecclesia  caikolica.  Bale  adds  to  these, 
Commentaries  on  the  Song  of  Solomon,  and  on  the  creed 
of  St.  Athanasius  and  the  Lord's  Prayer,  a  treatise  de 
operibus  sex  dierum^  and  a  book  of  sermons. 


1180.]  HEREBERT  OF  BOSH  AM.  269 


HEREBERT  OP  BOSHAM. 

Herebert  of  BosHAM  was  probably  a  native  of  the 
town  of  that  name  in  Sussex.^  He  is  said  to  have  studied 
in  France^  and  to  have  returned  to  his  native  country  at 
the  solicitation  of  Thomas  Becket^  whom  he  afterwards  fol- 
lowed in  all  his  fortunes^  and  to  whom  he  appears  to  have 
performed  the  duties  of  a  secretary.  At  a  later  period  he 
collected  into  a  volume  the  letters  which  he  had  written, 
both  in  the  name  of  his  patron  and  in  his  own.f  It  has 
been  stated^  but  apparently  without  reason,  that  Herebert 
was  one  of  the  witnesses  of  Becket's  death.  We  have  no 
information  as  to  the  time  at  which  he  died ;  but  he  com- 
piled a  life  of  his  patron^  probably  towards  the  year  1188. 
This  life  was  one  of  the  four  biographies  which^  in  an 
abridged  form,  entered  into  the  composition  of  the  Qua- 
drUogus.  Bale  attributes  to  Herebert  de  Bosham  other 
books^  entitled  Defensorium  Anrue  (which,  he  says,  com- 
menced with  the  words  Errorum  veterum  inventoresj ;  De 
suisperegrinationibus ;  Glossa  in  PsaUerium ;  and  a  Com- 
mentary on  the  Epistles  of  St.  Paul.  Some  of  these  were 
perhaps  the  works  of  other  writers  of  the  name  of  Here- 
bert. The  commentary  on  the  Psalms  is  preserved  in  a 
manuscript  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  Herebert  de  Bosham 
appears  to  have  been  confounded  with  another  ecclesiastic 

*  Herebert  U  enamerated  as  a  maa  of  learning  and  reputation  in  the 
Catalogus  emditomm  B.  Thomse  Martyris,  and  he  is  there  distinctly  stated 
to  have  been  an  Englishman. 

t  A  copy  is  presenred  among  Archbishop  Parker's  MSS.  in  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Cambridge,  No.  123  ;  it  is  entitled  in  Nasmith's  Catalogue, 
Epislola  Herberti  de  BosMtn  tarn  in  persona  Thoma  Beckei  quam  in  sua 
adpapam  ei  alios  episeopoSf  et  responsiones  ad  iihs. 


270  GILBERT  FOLIOT.  [DUd 

of  the  same  (or  a  similar)  name,  who  retired  to  Rome,  and 
was  made  by  the  pope  archbishop  of  Benevento,  and  after- 
wards, in  1178,  a  cardinal. 


GILBERT  AND  ROBERT  FOLIOT. 

Gilbert  Foliot  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  men 
of  his  age,  and  is  praised  by  many  of  his  contemporaries 
for  his  learning  and  piety,  as  well  as  for  his  eloquence  and 
skill  in  secular  afiairs.  He  was  descended  of  a  powerful 
family  which  came  in  with  William  the  conqueror,  and, 
after  having  been  (as  it  is  said)  archdeacon  of  Middlesex, 
he  became  a  monk  of  Cluny.  In  1139,  by  the  influence 
of  his  kinsman  Milo  constable  of  Gloucester  and  of  Robert 
de  Betun  bishop  of  Hereford,  he  was  made  abbot  of 
Gloucester;  in  1148  he  was  advanced  to  the  bishopric  of 
Hereford;  and  in  1163  he  was,  at  the  especial  desire  of 
the  king,  made  bishop  of  London.*  In  the  disputes  be- 
tween the  king  and  Becket,  Gilbert  bishop  of  London 
distinguished  himself  by  his  faithful  adherence  to  the 
former.  At  the  end  of  the  year  11 64  he  went  to  Rome  to 
plead  Henry's  cause.  On  his  return  the  king  appointed 
him  receiver  of  the  rents  of  the  confiscated  property  of 
the  church,  and  employed  him  as  his  chief  adviser  in  eccle- 
siastical matters.  As  might  be  expected,  he  became  one 
of  the  most  prominent  objects  of  the  hatred  of  the  party  of 
Becket ;  and  in  the  letters  of  the  archbishop  and  John  of 
Salisbury  he  is  loaded  with  epithets  of  the  coarsest  abuse. 
Becket  himself  did  not  scruple  to  designate  him  as  *^  the 
forerunner  of  Antichrist  and  the  exciter  of  all  the  king's 

*  Henry  Wharton,  de  London.  EpUcopis,  where  there  ia  a  long  article 
on  thia  prelate.  Conf.  Godwin,  de  Epiac.  and  the  article  in  Tanner'a  Bib- 
liotheca.    Bale  states  erroneously  that  Gilbert  was  abbot  of  Leicester. 


1188.]  GILBBRT  FOLIOT.  271 

malice/' — Anfichristi  praambulum  et  totius  malituB  regis 
incentorem.*  His  enemies  accused  Gilbert  of  aspiring  to 
the  archbishopric ;  and  they  reproach  him  with  his  pre- 
sumption in  asserting  that  the  see  of  London  owed  no 
submission  to  that  of  Canterbury,  and  in  refusing  to  obey 
Becket's  orders*  In  the  coimcil  held  at  London  in  1169, 
Gilbert  Foliot  appealed  from  the  archbishop  to  the  pope, 
for  which  act  of  contumacy  he  was  solemnly  excommu- 
nicated by  Becket ;  but  he  repaired  to  Rome  in  person, 
and  obtained  his  absolution  in  11 70.  He  had  no  sooner 
been  delivered  from  this  sentence  than,  before  the  end  of 
the  last  mentioned  year,  Becket  excommunicated  him  a 
second  time ;  and  on  this  occasion  the  sentence  was  con- 
firmed by  the  pope,  who  suspended  him  from  his  func- 
tions. The  bishop  of  London  remained  under  the  sen- 
tence until  after  Beckef  s  death,  and  the  hatred  of  Becket's 
party  was  carried  so  far  that  they  accused  him  of  having 
been  accessory  to  the  murder.  When  the  pope's  legates  at 
length  absolved  him  at  Gisors  in  the  beginning  of  August 
1171^  he  was  obUged  to  pledge  himself  that  he  had  not 
by  deed  or  word  procured  the  death  of  the  archbishop. 
Some  of  his  contemporaries  invented  a  story,  which  is 
preserved  by  Matthew  Paris,  how  he  was  one  night  re- 
clining on  his  couch,  reflecting  on  a  long  consultation 
which  he  had  just  had  with  the  king  on  Becket's  affairs, 
when  a  strange  voice  uttered  in  his  hearing  the  following 
rhymes, — 

O  GUberte  Fotiot, 
Dam  reTolvis  tot  et  tot, 
Deus  tans  est  Astarot. 

It  is  added  that  the  bishop  replied  without  hesitation, 
MentiriSj  damon,  Deus  meus  est  Deus  Sabaoth,  Gilbert 
died  on  the   18th  of  February,   1187,  which  probably 

*  Bpist.  S.  ThomiB,  lib.  iii.  ep.  59. 


272  GILBERT  FOLIOT.  [Dt^rf 

means  1187-8 ;  for  Walter  Mapes^  in  his  treatise  De  nugi» 
curuUiumy  written  apparently  at  the  end  of  1187^  speaks 
of  him  as  still  alive^  though  very  aged  and  almost  blind^ 
and  states  that  he  was  employing  bis  latter  years  in  lite- 
rary occupations.* 

By  the  terms  in  which  Mapes  speaks  of  his  skill  in 
Latin^  French,  and  English^  we  might  be  led  to  suppose 
that  Bishop  Gilbert  had  written  in  the  three  languages. 
Such  of  his  works  as  are  known  to  us  were^  however^  all 
written  in  Latin,  and  appear  to  have  been  composed  in 
the  earlier  period  of  his  life.  His  commentary  In  cantica 
canticorum  is  dedicated  to  Robert  de  Betun,  bishop  of 
Hereford ;  and  his  letters^  of  which  a  considerable  number 
are  preserved,  belong  to  the  period  when  he  was  abbot  of 
Gloucester.  These  epistles,  of  which  a  few  are  preserved 
in  a  manuscript  in  Hereford  Cathedral,  and  a  larger  num- 
ber (between  forty  and  fifty)  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
British  Museum,t  are  addressed  to  Theobald  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  the  bishops  of  Worcester,  Winchester, 
Landaff,  Salisbury,  and  Ely,  several  successive  popes,  and 
other  ecclesiastics,  and  relate  chiefly  to  the  state  of  the 
border  of  Wales,  and  to  violences  offered  to  the  church 
during  the  troubled  reign  of  Stephen.  They  are  thus  of 
considerable  historical  interest.  The  following,  addressed 
to  the  bishop  of  Worcester,  may  serve  as  an  example : — 

Patii  8U0  domino  Simoni  Wigorn.  Dei  gratia  episcopo  frater  G.  ecde- 
aiee  beati  Petri  Glooestrise  dictus  abbas,  cum  pietate  frnctus  operari 
jttstitiee.    Compellit  me  caritaa  et  debita  vobis  suadet  obedientia,  ut  quod 


*  Gillebertua  Filiot  nunc  Lnndinensis  episcopns,  yir  trium  peritiasimns 
linguarum,  Latinae,  Gallicse,  AnglicKi  et  lucidissime  disertas  in  singulis, 
in  hoc  senio  suo,  quo  lumiois  fere  defectum  incurrit,  cum  paucos  modi- 
cos  et  luculentos  feoerit  tractatus,  quasi  poenitentiam  perditK  vacationis 
agens.    W.  Map.  de  Nug.  Curial.  Distinc.  i.  c.  13. 

t  MS.  Reg.  8  A.  XXI. 


1188.]  GILBERT  FOLIOT.  273 

ad  honorem  ▼estrum  consenrandom  vel  aliquatenns  ampliandnm  spectare 
cognovero,  hoc  yobU  cum  opportannm  faerit  et  prsBsenB  suggeram  et 
absens  scripto  commoneam.  Instant  prope  tempore  pericnloaa  et  dies 
mali  supervenerant  nobis,  in  quibus  mana  inimici  hominig  super  seminata 
zisania  messem  bonam  pene  suflfocare  pnevalent  ant  comprimere.  Nee 
tamen  gentilitas  est  in  qna  snmns,  sed  omni  gentilitate  pejor  inbumana 
crndelitas,  cui  totom  quod  libet  licet,  totnm  vilait  quod  honestum  est»  nil 
amplectens  desiderio  quod  christianse  simpUcitati  et  sacris  legibus  obviare 
non  constet.  Nempe  ut  audita  taceamus,  vidimus  ante  acta  bebdomada 
ecclesiam  sanctse  Dei  genetricis  apud  Slobtres  mirabili  modo  diruptam, 
tectum  ejus  manu  sacrilega  convulsum,  in  parietibus  ejus  nunquam  «edificata 
propugnacula  inmissos  satellites  impietatis  deseirire  promptissimos.  Yidi- 
mus,  inquam,  et  doluimus,  locum  sanctuarii  sine  honore,  ecclesiam  Del  tur- 
piter  contaminatam  et  ausu  temerario  in  domieilium  Satan»  commutatam. 
Hujus  etiam  occasione  malitiie  qtudam  ilios  expugnare  adorsi  sunt.  Istis 
itaque  in  ecclesiam  ipsam  lapides,  tela,  faces  jacientibus,  aliis  resistentibus, 
non  sine  sanguinis  effusione  et  multa  hominum  lesione  biduum  ibi  misera- 
bile  confectum  est.  Scimus  adhuc  lupos  intra  parietes  ejusdem  ecclesise 
in  ipso  ovili  Domini  latitantes,  et  in  gregem  Domini  simplicem  et  inno- 
cuum  laniantes,  aliter  fugari  non  posse,  quam  si  bonus  pastor  adveniens  eos 
sonitu  buccinse  et  latratu  canum  terreat,  dissipet,  et  disperdat.  Hortor 
itaque  patemitatem  vestram  consulendo  vobis  caritate  qua  debeo,  ut  cum 
honestioribus  et  eruditioribus  clericis  vestris  locum  flagitii  festinanter  adeatis, 
et  commissam  vobis  ecclesiam  primo  purgari  deinde  redintegrari  faciatis. 
Vel  si  monitionem  vestram  manus  sacrilega  minus  auderet,  actores  et  adju- 
tores  sceleris  scientibus  et  Tidentibus  ipsis  gladio  Domini  feriatis,  ut  dum 
in  future  condlio  bujuscemodi  tractabuntur  excessns,  honor  sit  vobis  coram 
simul  discumbentibus  opposuisse  tos  murum  pro  domo  Israeli  et  illatas  sibi 
contumelias  repulisse  yiriliter  aut  vindicasse.    Vale. 

In  another  letter^  addressed  to  the  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury, in  which  he  excuses  himself  from  attending  a 
council  at  London,  he  speaks  of  an  invasion  of  the  border 
by  the  Welsh,  and  of  his  own  losses : — 

Patri  800  et  domino  Cant.  Dei  gratia  archiepiscopo  et  totius  Anglise  prl- 
mati  T.  frater  G.  Gloucestrin  dictns  abbas  humilem  ex  caritate  non  ficta 
obedientiam.  Rogamus  benevolentiam  vestram  in  Cbristo,  dilecte  pater, 
ut  excusationem  quam  ad  prsesens  necessitate  prtetendimus,  ipsi  suscipiatis 
et  de  mandate  vestro  siquid  minus  agimus,  paterna  hoc  nobis  caritate 
remittatis.  Absit  enim  ut  quid  audeam  in  prsesentia  yestra  confingere,  qui 
summum  mihi  solamen  sestimem  una  vobiscum  dies  hujus  incolatus  individua 
Titse  conjunctione  transigere.  Sed  his  qui  circa  nos  sunt  satis  superque 
notum  est,  quomodo  noper  irruerint  Goalenses  in  nos,  et  quod  trans  Sabri- 
nam  fluyium  potissimum  habebamus  totum  fere  usque  in  ipsas  Goallifls  pro- 

VOL.  II.  T 


274  ROBERT  FOLiOT.  [Died  1186. 

fimditates  abegernnt.  Unde  necesae  est  milii  hao  ipsa  dondnica  qua  Lon- 
donitt  conyenieretis  coUoqulo  regnm  Gualenaiiim  interease  in  Glamorgan, 
▼el  plnaqoam  trecent  marcarum  dampnum  irrecnperatorie  sostinere.  Quia 
ergo  in  tota  terra  cordis  yestri  ad  plenum  dominatur  caritas,  dabitia  filio 
exoranti  hane  yeniam,  ut  patema  licentia  ad  pnssens  urgenti  et  instant!  pin* 
rlmnm  ecdesiiB  nostr»  neoessitati  deseryiam.  Val.  domnvs  et  pater  mens 
dileetissimuB. 

A  much  larger  collection  of  Gilbert  Poliot's  letters  is 
preserved  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  of  which  an  edition  is 
promised  by  Dr.  Giles.  The  other  works  attributed  to 
Gilbert  are  chiefly  letters  and  writings  relating  to  the 
disputes  between  the  king  and  Becket.  Some  of  these 
are  printed  among  the  Epistoke  8.  ThotMBj  and  one  will 
be  found  in  the  Concilia  of  Wilkins.  Gilbert  Foliot  has 
been  often  confounded  with  Gilbertus  Universalis,  and 
with  other  Gilberts  whose  works  have  been  wrongly  as- 
cribed to  him. 

Robert  Foliot,  probably  a  kinsman  of  Gilbert,  who 
was  also  bishop  of  Hereford,  has  frequently  been  con- 
founded with  Robert  de  Melun.  We  first  hear  of  him 
as  archdeacon  of  Oxford.  He  is  said  to  have  been  a 
friend  of  Becket,  and  to  have  been  made  by  his  influence 
bishop  of  Hereford,  to  which  see  he  was  consecrated  on 
the  6th  of  October  1174.  He  died  at  Hereford  on  the 
9th  of  May  1186,  and  was  buried  in  the  cathedral.  The 
only  work  which  he  is  known  to  have  written  is  a  treatise 
De  sacramentis  Veterii  Testamenti,  which  Leland  saw 
in  the  library  of  the  abbey  of  Bury  St.  Edmund^s, 
and  which  Tanner  mentions  as  being  preserved  in  the 
Lumley  Library.  The  Excerpta  ex  chronicis  Mariani 
Scoti,  attributed  to  Robert  Foliot,  was  the  work  of  an 
earlier  Robert,  bishop  of  Hereford.*  He  is  also  said  to 
have  composed  a  volume  of  sermons.f 

*  See  before,  p.  20»  of  the  present  yolame. 

t  The  sources  of  all  we  know  of  thif  writer  are  indicated  in  the  BibUo' 
tkica  of  Turner, 


Died  1190,]        RANVLPH  db  glanville.  275 

SdiHon. 

The  commeatery  m  Caniiea  Cdnticorum  of  Gilbert  Foliot  was  printed  by 
Patrick  Jnnios,  4to.    London,  1638. 


RANULPH  DE  GLANVILLE. 

Banulfh  db  Glanyille,  one  of  the  most  illustrious 
statesmen  of  the  reign  of  Henry  11.^  is  known  in  literary 
history  as  the  presumed  author  of  the  first  treatise  on 
English  law.  He  is  said  to  have  been  born  at  Stratford 
in  SuflFolk,*  He  founded  the  abbey  of  Butteley,  in  Suf- 
folkj  in  1171 ;  but  his  influence  appears  to  have  lain 
chiefly  in  the  North  of  England,  where,  after  the  death  of 
Conan,  earl  of  Richmond,  in  11 71,  Ranulph  held  the 
castle  and  honour  of  Bichmond,  in  Yorkshire,  in  fee  of 
the  king,  and  as  governor  of  Richmond  Castle  he  joined 
actively  with  the  other  barons  of  the  North  in  opposing 
the  invasion  of  the  Scots  under  William  the  Lion,  in 
1173  and  1174.  In  the  battle  of  Alnwick  in  11 7^^  it  was 
Ranulph  de  Glanville  who  captured  the  Scotish  king, 
and  he  carried  his  royal  prisoner  to  king  Henry  in  Nor- 
mandy, In  1175  he  was  made  sherifl*  of  Yorkshire,  an 
ofiice  which  he  held  many  years.  In  the  year  following  he 
was  made  a  judge  of  the  king's  court ;  and,  the  king  having 
in  the  same  year  divided  the  kingdom  into  six  circuits, 
and  appointed  three  justices  itinerant  for  each,  Ranulph 
de  Glanville  was  appointed  one  of  those  for  the  Northern 
circuit.t  In  1179,  England  being  divided  into  four  similar 
drcuits,  he  was  named  one  of  the  six  justices  itinerant 
for  the  Northern  division.^     In   1180  he  was  appointed 

*  So»  at  leasti  it  \e  stated  in  the  preface  to  the  Englifh  tnmslation  of 
hiabook. 
t  Roger  HoTedea»  Aaaal.  p.  549. 
t  Roger  HoYeden^  Annal.  p.  591. 

T  2 


276  RANULPH  DB  OLANVILLE.  [Died  1190. 

chief  justiciary  of  England,*  which  under  the  Norman 
kings  was  the  highest  office  under  the  crown,  not  only  the 
chief  administration  of  the  laws,  but  the  command  of  the 
armies,  and  the  government  of  the  realm  during  the  ab- 
sence of  the  king,  being  lodged  in  his  hands.  It  appears 
that  Ranulph  gained  this  high  degree  of  royal  favour  not 
only  by  his  great  abilities  as  a  statesman^  and  his  pro- 
found acquaintance  with  the  laws,  but  by  the  firmness 
which  he  shewed  in  supporting  the  royal  prerogative 
against  the  encroachments  of  the  church.  Yet  in  1184 
he  fell  into  some  degree  of  odium  for  an  alleged  act  of 
tyrannical  injustice,  which  involved  him  in  a  dispute  with 
the  bishop  of  Worcester.t  In  1 186  he  took  the  cross,  with 
some  other  of  the  great  barons  in  England ;  and  in  the  year 
following  he  was  employed  on  an  embassy  to  the  French 
court,  and  was  active  in  negotiating  the  peace  of  Oisors.  j; 
Ranulph  de  Glanville  held  the  office  of  chief  justiciary  until 
king  Henry's  death,  and  he  continued  to  enjoy  the  royal 
favour  after  the  accession  of  Richard  I.  We  learn  from 
William  of  Newbury,  that  he  was  at  table  with  the  new 
king  at  the  time  of  the  sanguinary  insurrection  against  the 
Jews  in  London,  which  happened  soon  after  his  corona- 
tion ;  and  that  he  was  immediately  sent  in  the  hopes  that 
his  known  prudence  and  authority  would  be  most  efficient 
in  allaying  the  tumult.§  He  was  now  advanced  in  years 
{grand(BVU8)y  and  is  said  to  have  been  dissatisfied  with 
some  of  the  measures  of  the  youthful  court.  The  same 
year   (1190),  he  resigned   his  offices,    and    determined 


*  Hoveden,  ib.  p.  600. 

t  See  Hoveden,  ib.  pp.  622,  623. 

\  Hoveden,  ib.  pp.  629  and  633. 

§  Mittitur  a  latere  regis  Ranulplius  de  GlanTilla,  regni  procurator,  vir 
potens  et  pmdens,  cum  aliis  seque  uobilibus,  ut  yel  flecteret  Tel  fraenaret 
attdaces.    Will,  Neubr.  Hist.  lib.  iv.  c.  1. 


J>tVrfll90.]         RANULPH  D£  GLANVILLE.  277 

to  join  thp  crusade  which  had  been  proclaimed  in  the 
preceding  year.  He  went  in  company  with  archbishop 
Baldwin  and  Hubert  bishop  of  Salisbury,  embarked  at 
Marseilles,  and  arrived  in  Syria  to  take  an  active  part  in 
the  siege  of  Acres,  where  he  was  killed,  being  one  of  the 
first  men  of  distinction  who  fell  in  the  christian  cause.* 

Ranulph  de  Glanville  appears  to  have  zealously  occupied 
himself  in  compiling  and  digesting,  as  well  as  enforcing, 
the  English  laws,  which  were  then  in  a  confused  state. 
It  is  somewhat  singular  that  Roger  Hoveden  (who  was 
Ranulph^s  contemporary),  after  stating  his  appointment  to 
the  office  of  chief  justiciary,  adds,  that  **  by  his  wisdom 
were  compiled  the  under-written  laws  which  we  call 
English*'  (cujvs  sapientia  conditce  sunt  leges  subscripice  quas 
Anglicanas  vocamusj,  and  then  gives  the  Latin  text  of  the 
laws  of  William  the  Conqueror.  Probably  the  Annalist 
means  no  more  than  that  Ranulph  de  Glanville  repub- 
lished and  enforced  more  strictly  the  observance  of  the 
older  code  of  Anglo-Norman  laws.  He  is  said  also  to 
have  been  the  author  of  the  act  of  Novel  Disseisin. 
But  his  great  fame  among  lawyers  has  arisen  from 
the  treatise  De  legVms  et  consuetudinitms  regni  Anfflite, 
which  has  been  repeatedly  published  under  his  name,  and 
which  was  probably  compiled  at  least  by  his  directions. 
There  is  no  distinct  authority  for  attributing  it  to  him ; 
yet  the  arguments  which  have  been  brought  forward 
against  his  claims  (such  as  that  no  one  but  an  eccle- 
siastic could  have  written  in  Latin)  are  altogether  devoid 
of  force ;  and  it  is  distinctly  stated  to  have  been  published 
during  the  time  when  he  held  the  administration  of  the 
laws,  in  the  title  which  it  bears  in  the  earliest  manuscripts. 
It  is  certain  that  it  was  a  treatise  of  the  highest  authority ; 

*  W.  Neabrig.  lib.  ir.  c.  4.    Roger  HoTeden,  Anna]*  pp.  668  and  685* 


276  BANULPH  DB  OLANVILLB.         [Died  1190. 

it  was  copied  and  republished,  in  a  mutilated  fonn,  in 
Scotland,  in  the  work  commonly  known  by  the  title  of 
Regiam  Mqfesiatem ;  and  it  is  the  groundwork  of  the  later 
treatise  of  Bracton.  The  treatise  of  Banolph  de  Olan- 
yille  forms  a  regular  system  of  English  jurisprudence, 
confined  in  general  to  such  matters  as  came  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  king's  court,  or  curia  regii.  It  is 
divided  into  fourteen  books,  of  which  the  first  three  com- 
prise the  proceedings  in  a  writ  of  right  for  the  recovery  of 
land.  The  first  details  the  various  forms  of  proceeding, 
until  the  two  parties  appear  in  court ;  the  second  and 
third  books  describe  the  proceedings  after  the  cause 
has  been  brought  into  court,  and  treat  of  the  duel,  the 
grand  assise,  &c.  The  writer's  observations  on  the  ad- 
vantages of  the  grand  assize  (lib.  ii.  c.  7)  will  serve  as  an 
example  of  the  style  of  the  book — 

Est  autem  magna  assisa  regale  qaoddam  beneficium,  dementia  prindpis 
de  consilio  procenim  populis  indultum,  quo  yitn  hominnm  et  status  inte- 
gritati  tarn  salubriter  consulitnr,  nt  in  Jure  quod  quia  in  libera  soli  tene* 
mento  possidet  retinendo,  duelli  casum  dedinare  possnnt  homines  ambiguum. 
Ac  per  hoc  contigit  insperatae  et  prsematurse  mortis  ultimum  eyadere  sup- 
plicium,  yel  saltem  perennis  Infami»  opprobrium,  illius  infesti  et  inyere- 
cundi  terbi  quod  in  ore  yicti  turpiter  sonat  eonsecutiyum.  Ex  «quitate 
autem  maxima  prodita  est  legaUs  ista  institutio.  Jus  enim,  quod  post 
multas  et  longas  dilationes  yix  evincitur  per  duellum,  per  beneficium  istius 
constitutionis  commodius  et  accderatius  expeditur.  Asrisa  enim  ipsa  tot 
non  expectat  essonia  quot  duellum,  ut  ex  sequentibus  liquebit.  Ac  per  hoc 
et  laboribus  hominum  parcitur,  et  sumptibus  pauperum.  Prseterea,  quanto 
magis  ponderat  in  judiciis  plnriam  idoneorum  testium  fides  quam  unius  tan- 
tum,  tanto  majori  sequitate  nititur  iita  constitutio  quam  dueUum.  Com 
enim  ex  unius  jurati  testimonio  procedat  duellum,  duodecim  ad  minus  lega- 
lium  hominum  exigat  ista  constitutio  juramenta.  Peryenitur  autem  ad 
assisam  ipsam  hoc  ordine.  Quare  is  qui  se  in  assisam  posuit  ab  initio  per* 
quiret  breye  de  pace  habenda,  ne  de  cKtero  ab  adyersario  ponator  in  plad- 
tum  per  breye,  quo  prius  inter  eos  placitum  fnit  de  tenemento  unde  tenens 
posuit  se  in  assisam. 

The  fourth,  fifth,  and  sixth  books  are  respectively  occu- 
pied with  questions  relating  to  advowson,  villenage,  and 


Died  1190.]        ranulph  db  glanvills*  279 

dower.  The  seventh  treats  of  various  questions  relating 
to  inheritance^  such  as  alienation^  descents,  succession^ 
wardship,  and  testaments.  The  eighth  book  treats  of 
final  concords,  and  of  records  in  general ;  the  ninth,  of 
homage,  relief,  fealty,  services,  and  purprestures  and  re- 
moval of  boundaries ;  and  the  tenth,  of  debts  and  matters 
of  contract.  The  eleventh  treats  of  attorneys,  whose  duty 
it  is  to  represent  their  principals  in  court.  Having 
finished  the  subject  of  actions  originally  commencing  in 
the  curia  regis,  the  writer  proceeds  in  the  twelfth  book 
to  treat  of  writs  of  right  when  brought  in  a  lord's  court, 
and  of  the  manner  of  removing  them  thence  into  the 
county  court  and  curia  regis.  The  thirteenth  book  treats 
of  assises  and  disseisins ;  and  the  fourteenth  is  occupied 
with  the  discussion  of  the  doctrine  of  pleas  of  the  crown, 
of  concealment  of  treasure  trove,  homicide,  arson,  robbery^ 
rape,  forgery,  &c. 

Bditiotu. 

Tractatufl  de  l^gibas  et  coDBuetudinibiu  r^gni  Anglie,  tempore  Regis  Henrid 
secundi  compositus,  losticie  gubernacala  tenente  illnstri  Tiro  Ranulpho 
de  Glanuilla  iuria  regni  et  antiquanmi  coiuraetadinil  eo  tempore  peri* 
tiesimo.  Bt  illas  solu  legee  continet  et  consuetadineB  secundam  quae 
placitatur  in  Caria  Regis  ad  scaccarium  et  coram  lusticiis  ybicnnque 
faerint.  Hole  adiectae  sunt  a  quodam  legam  studioso  adnotationes  ali- 
quot morginalet  non  inutilee.  On  the  last  leaf,  Londini  in  «dibns 
Richardi  Totteli.  1^.  Supposed  to  have  been  printed  about  1554,  at  the 
suggestion  or  under  the  direction  of  Sir  William  Sanford,  judge  of  the 
common  pleas. 

Tractatus  de  Legibus,  &c.  Qui  nunc  imprimitur  post  50  annos  a  priori  et 
prima  Impressione,  quia  in  pluribus  concordat  cum  antiquo  libro 
Legum  Scotis  Tocato  Regiam  Maiestatem  precipuse  in  locis  hoc  signo 
notatis*.  Cum  diuersis  manuscriptis  nuper  ezaminatis. .  .InsBdibus 
Thoma  Wight,  1604.  ISmo.    London. 

This  edition  was  reprinted,  with  the  omission  of  the  preface,  in  1673. 

Trait^s  sur  les  Coutumes  Anglo-Normandes,  publics  en  Angleterre,  depuis 
le  onsieme  jusqu*an  quatorei^me  Sitele. .  . .  Par  M.  Houard,  Avocat  an 
Parlement.  Tome  Premier.  A  Rouen,  1776,  4to.  pp.  373 — 581. 
Tractatus  de  Legibus  et  Consuetudinibus  Regni  Anglic,  tempore  Regis 
Henrici  II.  compositus,  Justicie  Gubemacula  tenente  illustri  yiro 
Ranulpho  de  GlanviUa»  &c» 


280  THOMAS  AND  RICHARD  OF  ELY.  [Reifffl  o/ 

Tractatus  de  Legibus,  &c.  Cum  MSS.  Harl.  Cott.  Bodl.  et  Mill.  oollatuB. 
Londini,  1780,  8vo.  Edited  by  John  Rayner  ;  but  the  collations  and 
correciion«  of  the  text  were  by  ^J.  £.  Wilmot,  son  of  Sir  Gardley 
Wilmot 

Dratulation, 

A  Translation  of  GianTille,  by  John  Beames,  Esq.  of  Lincoln's  Inn,  Bar- 
rister-at-Law.    To  which  are  added  notes.    London,  1812.    8yo. 


THOMAS  AND  RICHARD  OF  ELY. 

Two  monks  of  Ely  distinguished  themselves  among  the 
local  historians  who  lived  in  the  twelfth  century.  Thomas 
of  Ely  is  only  known  by  his  writings.  In  his  life  of 
St.  Etheldreda^  he  states  that  his  father  was  a  man  of 
learning,  and^  as  he  mentions  bishop  Geoffrey^  who  was 
elected  to  the  see  of  Ely  in  1174,  he  must  have  lived  after 
that  date.  Richard  of  Ely  appears  to  have  been  distin- 
guished above  his  fellow  monks  by  his  talents.  We  find 
that  he  was  employed  on  a  mission  to  the  pope  for  the 
interests  of  his  monastery  between  1149  and  1154,  and 
he  appears  as  subprior  of  Ely  in  a  document  written  in 
1173.*  In  1177  he  was  elected  prior,  and  he  died  some- 
time before  1195^  when  the  office  of  prior  was  occupied 
by  another  person. 

Thomas  of  Ely  wrote  the  history  of  his  monastery  from 
its  first  foundation  to  the  year  1107,  divided  into  two  parts 
or  books,  the  first  of  which,  consisting  chiefly  of  the  life 
of  St.  Etheldreda,  ended  with  the  reign  of  Edgar,  a.  d.  970. 
This  history  is  also  found  in  an  abridged  form,  in  which 
the  words  of  the  original  are  strictly  preserved,  and  which 

*  See  Wharton,  Angl.  Sac.  vol.  i.  pnef.  p.  xlr. 


Henry  IL]       thomas  and  richard  of  ely.  281 

is  supposed  to  have  been  the  work  of  the  original  author. 
It  is  from  this  epitome  that  portions  have  been  printed  by 
Mabillon,  Gale^  and  Henry  Wharton.  Both  texts  are 
found  not  uncommonly  in  manuscripts.  The  chief  value 
of  this  history  consists  in  the  old  local  traditions  which  it 
has  preserved.  Thomas  states  that  the  life  of  Etheldreda 
was  translated  from  an  English  (t.  e.  Anglo-Saxon)  bio- 
graphy. He  also  compiled  a  history  of  the  translation 
and  a  collection  of  the  posthumous  miracles  of  the  same 
saint^  which^  like  all  the  early  collections  of  this  kind^  is 
curious  for  the  light  it  throws  on  the  manners  of  the  times. 
A  good  copy  of  the  whole  of  Thomas's  writings  is  preserved 
in  the  Cottonian  Library  (Domitian^  A  xv.). 

Richard  of  Ely  continued  Thomas's  History  from  the 
year  1107  to  1169.  Boston  of  Bury  mentions  numerous 
sermons  {settnones  quamplures)  by  Richard  prior  of  Ely, 
the  first  of  which  commenced  with  the  words  Ascendet 
ricut  virffulium  coram»  Bale  also  ascribes  to  him  car^ 
mina  diveraa  et  epvftohB  /amiliares.  The  continuation  of 
Thomas's  History,  printed  by  Wharton,  is  not  Richard's 
own  work,  but  a  compilation  from  it. 

The  following  extracts  will  furnish  a  specimen  of  the 
style  of  these  two  writers,  and  of  the  ordinary  compilers 
of  local  histories  in  their  time.  The  first  is  an  account 
(probably  taken  from  local  tradition)  of  the  martyrdom  of 
the  first  abbot,  Brihtnoth,  in  981,  by  queen  Alfrida,  the 
mother  of  Ethelred,  the  king  then  reigning,  taken  from 
lliomas's  History. 

Qnodam  die  oontigit  abbatem  Bridnodum  ad  curiam  regis  Edelredi  pro 
ecclesiK  negotiis  profidsci.  Cis  (xeldesdune  per  silvam  quae  Nova  Foresta 
▼ocatur  ibati  ubi,  at  fertur,  ad  usus  nature  remotiora  loca  repetiit ;  cavens, 
ut  erat  homo  simplex  et  magnie  yerecundiie,  undique  circumspexit;  reginam 
forte  sub  quadam  arbore  offendit  nomine  Aelstritham»  suis  veneficiis  yacan- 
tern.  Quo  yiso,  non  absque  luctu  et  pavore  ingenti  in  talibus  se  perceptam 
ingemuit :  peritisttma  yero  in  arte»  mechanica,  at  fertuTi  habebatar.    Sed 


282  THOMAS  AND  RICHARD  OF  BLT.  [Reign  qf 

vir  Domini,  ex  hixjuscemodi  rebus  tnrbfttas  nimium,  qnantociai  inde  reoes- 
sit,  et  ad  regis  curiam  deyeniens,  magnifice  susceptus,  ecclesise  suae  nego- 
tia  citiuB  adimplerit.  Itaque  munificentia  regis  perfonctus  et  ezhilaratuf, 
ad  sua  redire  Tiam  repetiTit,  et  ne  reginam  licet  abhorrens  declinaret,  ad 
ejus  descendit  aulam,  quam  fortuito  ab  omnibus  vacuam  penitus  inyenit ; 
tameu  celeriter  reginse  innotuit  illins  adyentus.  lUa  vero  petiyit  ut  cum 
festinatione  ad  illam  solus  Teniret^  et  quod  cum  eo  de  salute  animse  suae  non- 
nulla  secrete  tractare  habuit  mandayit.  Cui  ingresso  plures  enormitateslas- 
civise  nimis  favorabiliter  et  inyerecunde  locuta  est,  precibus  et  promissis 
ilium  yelttti  sanctum  Joseph  mulier  impudica  si  posset  incontinentite  sibi 
nodis  alliceret,  «stimans  fraude  maligna  sanctum  Dei  in  scelere  secum  com- 
misceri,  quoniam  per  ilium  metuerat  detegi  a  malitia  quam  illam  exercere 
invenit.  Ille  viribus  et  verbis  obstat,  negat,  et  abhorret.  Unde  in  furorem 
commota,  evocatis  ex  suo  nequam  famulatu  ancillis,  et  quia  conceplt  dolorem 
peperit  iniquitatem,  beatum  yirum  neci  tradere  jussit,  nolens  eum  supenti* 
tern  quern  fore'dubitayit  suorum  aliquando  scelerum  proditorem.  Excogitat 
quomodo  ilium  extinguat,  corpore  a  vulnere  reserrato  immune,  non  appa- 
rente  Isesione.  Admonet  eas  muoronum  capulos  in  Igne  ferrere,  et  sub 
asoellis  sancti  abbatis  imprimi  usqui  dum  spiritum  excutiat»  Quo  hcto 
clamavit  intrinsicus,  velut  tali  infortunio  pave&cta.  Unde  ministri  abbatis 
et  qui  cum  illo  yenerant  adcurrunt  monacbi,  eum  subita  morte  prayentum 
ab  eis  audiunt,  et  ingemiscunt. 

The  second  extract^  taken  from  Richard's  History,  de* 
scribes  the  miserable  condition  to  which  the  country  round 
the  monastery  was  reduced  when  the  monks  of  Ely  had 
incurred  the  anger  of  king  Stephen. 

Propterea  rex  Stephanus  ira  grayiter  accensus  omnia  hsec  reputayit  ab 
episcopo  Nigello  machlnari,  et  jussit  eyestigio  posaessiones  ecdeslse  a  suis 
undequaque  distrahi  in  yindictam  odiorum  ejus.  Succisa  igitur  monachls 
rerum  facultate  suarum,  nimis  «gre  compelluutur  in  ecclesia,  maxime  cibo- 
rum  inedia,  unde  non  babentes  stipendia  yictuum,  gementes  et  anxii,  reli- 
quias  thesaurorum  quae  paryo  in  loco  residuas  erant,  yii.  de  octo  feretris, 
argentum  quod  inyeniunt  et  aurum  sumpserunt ;  quae  deinceps  minime  sunt 
reformata.  Oppresserat  enim  fames  omnem  regionem,  et  segra  seges  yictum 
omnem  negayerat.  Per  yiginti  milliaria  seu  triginta  non  bos,  non  aratrum 
est  inyentus,  qui  particulam  terrae  excoleret.  Vix  paryissimus  tunc  modius 
emi  poterat  ducentis  denariis.  Tantaque  hominum  clades  de  inopia  pania 
secuta  est,  ut  per  yicos  et  plateas  centeni  et  milleni  ad  instar  uteris  inflati 
exanimes  jacerent.  Fens  et  ? olatilibus  cadayera  inhumata  relinquebantur. 
Nam  multo  retro  tempore  talis  tribulatio  non  fuit  in  cunctis  terrarum  reg* 
nis.  Potentes  per  circuituq[L  late  vastando  milites  ex  rapina  conducunt, 
yiUas  oombunint,  captiyos  de  longe  ducentes  miserabiliter  tractabant,  pios 
aUigabant  in  compedibiu  et  nobiies  in  manicifl  ferreis.    Furit  itaque  nbiM 


Hewry  //•]  osrvasb  of  tilbury.  283 

yesana ;  inTicta  iKtator  malituu  Non  sexm  non  pareimt  letati ;  mille  mortifl 
species  infemnty  ut  ab  afflictis  pecunias  excntiant.  Fit  clamor  dirna  plan- 
ge&tium,  inhormit  luetos  ubiqni  moetentinmi  et  constat  foissa  oompletiun 
quod  nanciator  in  ApooalTpsi  Joannia :  Qn«rent  homines  mori  et  ftagiet 
mors  ab  eis. 

BditUm. 

Acta  Sanctorum  Ordinia  S.  Benedactl  in  sttonlonnn  olassefl  distribnta*  dis- 
culum  ii.  LutetiK  Parisiomm,  1691.  fol.  pp.  738—774.  Vita  S. 
Ethildrit»  virginis  et  reginte,  abbatissce  Bliensis  prime.  Auctore 
Thoma  Eliensi  monaoho»  qui  sttcalo  xii.  Tiiit.  The  first  ix>ok  of  Tho- 
mas's Ely  History* 

Historise  Britannicse,  Saxonicse,  Anglo- Danicse,  Scriptores  zr.  Ez  Tetostis 
codd.  MSS.  editi  opera  Thomse  Gale,  Th.  Pr.  Ozohift,  1091»  fbl. 
pp.  489.  Bz  seoundo  llbro  Historise  Elyensia.  The  second  book 
of  Thomas's  History»  with  some  omissions  explained  in  Gale's  preface. 

Anglia  Sacra,  sive  CoUectio  Historiarum,  &c.  (by  Henry  Wharton). 
Pars  Prima,  Londini,  1691.  pp.  zzziz — ^zlii.  The  prologue  and  eom- 
mencement  of  Thomas's  History  of  Ely.  pp»  593—614.  Thomn  mona- 
chi  EUensis  Historia  Bliensis  [the  abridged  edition] .  pp.  615 — 630. 
Richardi  prioris  Bliensis  Continnatio  fiistoriae  Bliensis  ab  anno 
MCVII.  ad  annum  MCLXIX.  p.  6BS.  Thornn  monadii  Bliensis 
Fragmentnm  de  dignitate  abbatis  EUeiuii* 


QERVASE  OP  TILBURY,  AND  RICHARD  BISHOP 

OF  LONDON, 

Gbbvask  OF  TiLBURT  is  one  of  the  most  amusing 
writers  of  this  period.  He  is  said  to  hare  been  a  kinsman 
of  king  Henry  II.  of  England,  but  there  appears  to  be 
no  authority  for  this  statement.  He  was  probably  bom 
at  Tilbury  in  Essex,  but  the  date  is  unknown.  He  appears 
to  have  studied  in  the  foreign  schools ;  and  he  rose  so  high 
in  the  favour  of  the  German  emperor  Otho  IV.  that  that 
monarch  made  him  marshall  of  the  kingdom  of  Aries. 
Otho  himself,  who  was  elected  emperor  in  1198,  was  de- 
scended from  king  Henry's  mother,  the  empress  Matilda, 


I 

I   « 


284  GERVA8B  OF  TILBURY.  {ReiffHo/ 

and  was  in  constant  intercourse  with  the  English  court. 
The  Otia  Jmperialia,  the  only  work  Geryase  is  known 
with  any  certainty  to  have  written,  was  compiled  in  the 
reign  of  king  John,  and  was  dedicated  to  the  emperor 
Otho ;  but  the  author  speaks  from  his  own  remembrance 
of  events  which  occurred  at  the  death  of  the  young  king 
Henry  (the  son  of  Henry  II,),  in  1183.* 

The  title  which  Gervase  gave  to  his  book  appears  to 
signify  that  it  was  intended  for  the  amusement  of  the 
emperor's  leisure  hours.  It  is  divided  into  three  ctecisi- 
ones,  or  books,  the  contents  of  which  are  of  a  somewhat 
miscellaneous  nature.  It  exhibits  extensive  reading  and 
considerable  learning,  and  its  author  appears  to  have  shared 
largely  in  the  taste  then  prevalent  for  collecting  popular 
legends,  a  circumstance  which  renders  his  work  especially 
valuable  for  the  history  of  the  popular  superstitions  of  the 
Middle  Ages.  In  the  first  book  Gervase  treats  of  the  crea- 
tion of  the  world,  of  the  elements,  of  paradise,  of  natural 
phenomena,  and  of  various  matters  connected  with  these 
subjects ; — of  fauns  and  satyrs  (i.  e.  fairies  and  spirits  sup- 
posed to  haunt  the  woods),  of  the  sons  and  immediate 
descendants  of  Adam,  of  the  origin  and  history  of  music, 
of  Seth,  Enoch,  Methusalem,  &c.  and  of  the  Deluge.  In 
the  second  book  he  treats  of  the  division  of  the  sons  of 
Noah,  of  the  four  empires,  and  of  the  threefold  division 
of  the  earth,  which  is  followed  by  a  detailed  geographical 
description  of  each  country  and  of  its  singularities.  The 
author  then  proceeds  to  give  a  succinct  historical  account 
of  the  Israelites,  of  the  kings  of  Latium,  of  the  destruc- 
tion of  Troy,  of  the  kingdoms  of  the  Romans,  Jews, 
Medes,  Macedonians,  Egyptians,  and  Persians,  of  the 
empire  of  the  Romans  and  the  origin  of  the  Goths  and 
Lombards,  of  the  Britons  (in  which  he  follows  Geoffrey 

*  Otia  Imper.  Decis.  ii.  c.  SO. 


Henry  IIJ]         qervase  op  tilbury.  285 

of  Monmouth)^  of  the  Francs^  of  the  Roman  emperors 
subsequent  to  Charlemain^  of  the  succession  of  the  kings 
of  France,  and  of  the  Norman  kings  of  England ;  which  is 
followed  by  a  detailed  description  of  the  Holy  Land,  and 
shorter  descriptions  of  Egypt,  Europe  in  general,  and 
Cisalpine  Gaul  in  particular.  The  remaining  chapters  of 
the  second  book  treat  of  the  origin  of  provinces  and  states, 
of  the  settlement  of  the  immediate  descendants  of  Noah, 
and  of  the  six  ages  of  the  world.  The  third  book  treats 
of  wonders  of  every  description,  natural  and  artificial,  and 
abounds  in  curious  popular  legends  relating  chiefly  to 
England  and  to  the  district  of  Aries.  As  examples  we 
may  quote  a  legend  of  St.  Ceesarius  of  Aries,  and  an  ac- 
count of  a  class  of  hobgoblins,  a  belief  in  which  formed  part 
of  the  popular  mythology  of  England  in  the  twelfth  cen- 
tury. 

De  venio  quern  in  chiroiheea  amcltait  iancttu. 

Quia  vero  ventornm  ac  montium  fecimus  mentionem,  asserentes  montes 
plnrimos  omnibus  vetitis  esse  altiores,  illud  quoque  annectimas»  valles  esse 
sic  montiom  contiguitate  conclusas»  quod  ad  iUas  nuDquam  aura  perrenit. 
Ecce  in  rftgno  Arelatensip  episcopatu  Yasconensi,  castrum  Divionis  Colonia 
inhabitatum.  Hoc  in  vallci  circumquaque  montibus  circumsepta,  positum  est> 
in  quod  [eo  quod  ventus  nee  levissimus  subintraverat  usque  ad  tempora 
Caroli  M.  sterilis  semper  vallb  extiterat,  omnique  humano  commodo  pror- 
sus  inutilis.  Verum  infoecunditatem  ipsius  comperiens  archiepiscopus  Are- 
latensisy  sanctissimus  vir,  miracnlis  preeclarus,  Ciesarius,  mare  civitati  suae 
subjacens  adiit,  et  chirothecam  suam  vento  marino  repletam  strinzit.  Acce- 
dens  itaque  ad  vallem,  inutilem  tunc  habitam,  in  nomine  Christi  chirothe* 
cam  plenam  vento  scopulo  cuidam  injecit,  ventumque  perpetuum  jussit 
emittere.  Sicque  factum  est,  quod  statim  rupit  facto  foramine  per  sclssuratn 
ezhaustum  ventum  semper  eructuat,  quem  pontianum  vulgns  nominat,  quasi 
a  pouto  illuc  yirtute  divina  translatum.  Hie,  inquami  impetuosus  terminos 
cujusdam  subterfluentis  aquse  non  transgreditur»  omnia  foecundat,  omnia 
salubrat,  et  dum  pnetereuntes  a  fronte  salutat,  eos  altiore  flatus  algore  fla- 
gellat,  quos  vallis  confinium  egressos  quasi  prohibitus  ne  datas  sibi  metas 
excedat  non  approzimat. 

The  second  extract  relates  to  a  superstition  which  still 
exists  in  some  of  the  more  secluded  parts  of  our  island. 


286  0BRVA8B  OF  TILBURT.  IBeiffH  of 

De  Neptftnis  «toe  PorhttUtf  qui  homines  ilhtdunt, 

Sicnt  inter  homines  mlrabilia  qusedam  natura  prodncit,  ita  spirituB  in 
oorp<iri]nui  aereii  qn»  aMumont  ez  divina  permistione  Indibria  svi  faeinnt. 
Ecce  enim  in  AngUa  dBmonea  quoadam  habet,  dsmones  inquam,  neacio 
dizerim  an  secretaa  et  ignotn  generationia  effii^iea,  quos  QBUJlNeptunos  AngU 
Portunoi  nominant.  Istia  insitum  est,  quod  simpUcitatem  fortunatomm 
oolonomm  amplectontnrp  et  cum  noetonuui  propter  domesticaa  operas 
agnnt  Tigilias,  snbito  clausis  jannis  ad  ignem  calefiunt,  et  ranuncnlas  ez 
shin  projectas  pninis  impositas  comedunt,  senili  Tnltu,  facie  cormgata,  sta- 
tora  posillii  dimidinm  poUicis  non  habentes.  Fsnnicalls  consertis  indnim- 
tor,  et  si  quid  gestandam  in  domo  fiierit  ant  onerosi  opens  agendom,  ad 
operandum  se  jungnnt,  citius  hnmana  facilitate  ezpediunt.  Id  illis  insitum 
est,  nt  obsequi  possint,  et  obesse  non  possint.  Vemm  unicum  qnasi  modu- 
lum  nocendi  habent.  Cnm  enim  inter  ambignas  noctis  tenebras  Angli  soli- 
tarii  quandoqne  eqnitant,  Portunus  nonnunquam  invisns  eqnitanti  se  oopnlati 
et  cum  diutius  comitatur  euntem,  tandem  loris  arreptis  equnm  in  lutum  ad 
manum  dndt,  in  quo  dum  infizus  volutatur,  Portunus  eziens  cachinnum 
fkoiti  et  hiQusoemodi  lodibrlo  hnmanam  simpUcitatem  deridet. 

As  the  author  of  the  Otia  Imperialiay  Gervase  of  Til- 
bury belongs  rather  to  the  reign  of  John  than  to  that  of 
Henry  II.  But  tradition  has  ascribed  to  him  a  treatise 
in  form  of  a  dialogue  on  the  Exchequer  and  its  officers, 
which  the  author  says  was  begun  in  the  23rd  of  Henry  IL 
(A.D.  Il77)>  and  which  appears  from  internal  eyidence  to 
have  been  completed  about  the  end  of  the  following  year. 
The  writer  of  this  book  must  have  lived  early  in  the 
reign  of  Henry  II.  for  it  appears  from  his  own  statements 
that  he  had  seen  Robert  earl  of  Leicester,  the  chief 
justice,  who  died  in  1168 ;  that  he  had  conversed  with 
Henry  de  Blois,  bishop  of  Winchester,  who  is  said  to 
have  died  in  1171 ;  and  that  he  had  supplied  the  place 
in  the  Exchequer  of  Nigellus  bishop  of  Ely,  who  died  in 
1169,  during  the  temporary  absence  of  that  prelate. 

Madox,  who  published  the  Dialogus  de  Scaccario  in  his 
History  and  Antiquities  of  the  Exchequer,  has  attempted  to 
prove  that  Gervase  of  Tilbury  was  not  the  author  of  that 
treatise.  His  chief  arguments  are,  that  we  have  no  reason 
for  believing  that  Gervase  ever  was  a  clerk  of  the  Exche- 


Henry  //.]    richabd' bishop  of  lonbon.  287 

quer ;  that  the  author  appears  to  have  been  an  ecclesiastic^ 
which  could  not  have  been  the  case  with  the  person  who 
was  appointed  to  so  decidedly  a  lay  office  as  that  of 
marshal  of  Aries ;  and  that  Gervase^  if  he  were  (as  is  pre- 
tended) grandson  of  Henry  IL  could  not  at  the  time  the 
book  was  written  be  of  a  sufficient  age  to  be  identified 
with  this  writer.  These  negative  arguments^  however, 
seem  to  us  to  have  no  great  weight.  There  appears  to 
be  no  proof  of  the  affinity  between  Oervase  of  Tilbury 
and  Henry  IL  and  the  former  may  have  been  a  young 
man  in  the  23rd  year  of  that  monarch's  reign,  and  still 
have  written  a  work  in  the  reign  of  John  at  no  very  ad- 
vanced age.  The  author  of  the  Otia  Imperialia  must  have 
been  a  derk,  and  his  book  has  quite  as  much  appearance 
of  having  been  written  by  an  ecclesiastic  as  the  Dialogue 
on  the  Exchequer.  We  do  not  know  enough  of  his  his- 
tory to  be  able  to  state  that  he  never  held  a  place  in  that 
office.  An  argument  of  much  greater  weight  is  furnished 
by  the  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer,  written  in  the  reign 
of  Henry  III.  which  contains  a  copy  of  the  treatise  alluded 
to.  The  writer  of  that  document,  as  quoted  by  Madox, 
appears  to  ascribe  this  book  distinctly  to  Richard  bishop 
of  London.*  Richard  was  a  son  of  Nigellus  bishop  of 
Ely;  he  held  the  dignities  of  a  canon  of  London,  archdea- 
con of  Ely,  and  dean  of  Lincoln,  and  is  said  to  have  pur- 
chased the  office  of  high  treasurer  in  1169,  which  he  filled 
so  much  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  king  during  the  whole 
of  his  reign  that  before  he  died  he  obtained  for  him  the 
bishopric  of  London,  to  which  he  was  consecrated  on 
the  31st  of  December  1189.  He  died  on  the  10th  of 
September  1198.  It  must  be  observed,  however,  that 
there  is  nothing  in  the  book  itself  to  induce  us  to  believe 
that  its  author  held  the  high  office  of  treasurer» 

*  Madox,  Hiflt.  of  Ezcheq.  vol.  ii.  pp.  345,  346  (seooad  edition). 


288  GERVASE  OF  TILBURY.  [ReiffU  of 

The  Dialogue  on  the  Exchequer  is  divided  into  two 
books.  The  author  tells  us  that  when  he  was  sitting  in 
the  room  of  a  chamber  which  looked  upon  the  river 
Thames,  in  the  23rd  year  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  he 
heard  a  voice  which  said  to  him,  *^  Master,  knowest  thou 
not  that  in  science  or  treasure  which  is  hidden  there  is  no 
utility  ?'"*  This  voice  turns  out  to  be  that  of  a  fellow 
clerk,  who  urges  him  to  commit  to  writing  his  great 
knowledge  of  the  a£Fiairs  of  the  Exchequer.  He  expresses 
his  reluctance  to  this  undertaking,  and  among  other  rea- 
sons he  represents  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  treat 
the  subject  otherwise  than  in  rude  language  with  barba- 
rous words.f  He  is,  however,  finally  persuaded,  and  pro- 
ceeds to  describe  the  nature  of  the  Exchequer,  and  the 
meaning  of  the  word.  The  passage  in  which  he  defines 
the  name,  and  gives  his  opinion  of  its  derivation,  will 
serve  as  a  specimen  of  the  style  of  this  book,  which  it 
must  be  confessed  differs  considerably  from  that  of  the 
Otia  Imperialia  of  Gervase  of  Tilbury. 

Diseipultu,  Quid  est  scaccariam  ? 

Magister.  Scaccariam  tabula  est  quadrangula  que  longitudinis  quasi 
decern  pedum,  latitudiois  quiuque,  ad  mod  urn  mensse  circumsedentibus 
apposita  undique  habet  limbum  altitndinis  quasi  quatuor  digitorumi  ne 
quid  appositum  ezcidat.  Superponitur  autem  scaccario  superiori  pannus 
in  termino  Paschce  emptus,  non  quilibet,  sed  niger  yirgis  distinctus,  dis- 
tantibus  a  se  virgis  vel  pedis  vel  palmoe  extent»  spatio.  In  spatiis  autem 
calculi  sunt  juxta  ordines  suos  de  quibus  alias  dicetur.  Licet  autem  tabula 
talis  scaccarium  dicatur,  transmutatur  tamen  hoc  nomen  ut  ipsa  quoque 
curia  que  consedente  scaccario  est  scaccarium  dicatur ;  adeo  ut  si  quando- 
que  per  sententiam  aliquid  de  communi  cousilio  fuerit  constitutum,  dicatur 
factum  ad  scaccarium  iUius  vel  illius  anni.  Quod  autem  hodie  dicitur  ad 
scaccarium  I  olim  dicebatur  ad  taleas. 

*  Anno  xxiij.  regni  regis  Henrici  secundi,  cum  sederem  ad  fenestram  8pe« 
culse  quie  est  juxta  fluvium  Tamensem,  factum  est  verbum  hominis  in  im- 
petu  loquentis  ad  me,  dicens,  Magister,  non  legisti  quod  in  scientia  vel 
thesauro  abscondito  nulla  sit  utilitas  ? 

t  De  hiis  rebus  quas  petis  impossibile  est  nisi  rusticano  sermone  et  com- 
munibua  loqui  yerbis. 


Henry  IL']  oervase  of  tilbury.  289 

D.  Qu»  est  ratio  hujas  nominis  ? 

If.  Nulla  mibi  Yerior  ad  prflesens  occurrit,  quam  quod  scaccarii  Insilis 
similem  habet  formam. 

2>.  Numquid  antiquorum  prudentia  pro  sola  forma  sic  nominavit,  cum  et 
simili  ratione  possit  Tabularium  appellari  ? 

M.  Merito  te  scmpulosum  dizi.  Est  et  alia,  sed  occultior.  Sicut  enim 
in  scaccario  Insili  quidam  ordines  Sunt  pugnatorum,  et  certis  legibus  yel  li- 
mitibuB  prooedont  vel  subsistnnt,  pnesidentibns  aliis  et  aliis  prtecedentibus, 
sic  iu  hoc  quidam  prsesidenti  quidam  assident  ex  officio,  et  non  est  cui- 
quam  liberum  leges  constitutas  ezcedere ;  quod  erit  ex  consequentibus  mani- 
festum.  Item  sicut  in  lusili  pugna  committitur  inter  reges,  sic  in  hoc  inter 
duos  principaliter  conflictns  est  et  pugna  committitor,  tbesaurarium  scilicet 
et  Yicecomitem  qui  assidet  ad  compotum,  rcsidentibus  aliis  tanquam  jadi- 
dbus  ut  Tideant  et  judicent. 

The  writer  proceeds  to  treat  of  the  different  offices  and 
officers  of  the  exchequer^  and  of  their  duties,  privileges^ 
and  dignities^  of  the  assay  of  money,  scutage,  prosecution 
of  murder,  of  danegeld,  forests,  essarts,  of  hides,  hun- 
dreds, and  counties.  In  the  second  book  he  treats  in  suc- 
cessive order  of  summonses,  of  the  duties  of  sheriffs,  of 
purprestures  and  escheats^  of  the  rents  {censusj  of  forests^ 
of  pleas  and  conventions,  of  enforcing  payments,  &c. 

The  author  of  this  treatise  tells  us  that  he  had  written 
a  history  of  the  affairs  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  to 
which  he  had  given  the  title  of  Tricolumnits,  because  it 
was  arranged  in  three  columns,  the  first  containing  the 
affairs  of  the  church,  the  second  the  political  history  of 
Henry's  reign,  and  the  third  miscellaneous  matters  and 
judgments  of  the  courts  of  law.^  This  work  appears  to 
be  entirely  lost. 

Bale,  as  usual,  attributes  to  Gervase  of  Tilbury  a  num- 
ber of  writings,  most  of  which  are  nothing  more  than 

*  Libellus  quidem  est  a  nobis  utcunque  tempore  juventutis  editas  de  tri- 
partita regni  Angli»  bistoria  sub  illustri  Anglorum  rege  Henrico  secundo, 
quem  quia  per  tres  columnas  per  universum  digessimus,  diximus  TYieolum' 
num.  In  prima  quidem  de  ecclesie  Anglicanse  negotiis  plurimis,  et  de 
nonnuUis  rescnptis  sedis  apostolicoe ;  in  secunda  vero  de  insignibus  prsdicti 
regis  gestifly   quae  iidem  bumanam  excedunt;  in  tertia  vero  de  pluribus 

VOL.  II.  U 


290  .       OBRVASE  OF  TiLBUHT.         [JSRmrj^.  /Ii 

chapters  of  the  Otia  Imperialia.  The  only  one  of  which 
there  can  be  any  doubt,  is  described  by  the  old  biblio- 
grapher as  lUustratianes  Galfredi,  lib.  iv.  commencing^  he 
teUs  us^  with  the  words^  Descripiio  quantiiatis  et  mtdt. 

Editi(m$. 

HistorUe  Franeonim  icriptores. . . .  opera  ad  itudio  ftlti  post  pttrem  Frtft- 
dflci  Duchesne.  Tomiu  III.  Lutete  ParisioniBi,  1641 »  M,pp.  363— 
379.  Fragmentam  de  Regibas  Francomm  et  Angloratt,  ex  Libro  de 
Mirabilibns  Mandi,  qui  alias  Solatium  Imperatorls,  ieti  Otia  Imperi- 
alia, nominator.  Auctore  Gervasio  TtUeberiensi  mareaeallo  regal 
Arelatensis. 

Gervasii  Tilberiensis,  Arelatensis  quondam  regni  maresohalUy  De  Imperio 
Romano,  et  Gottorum,  Lombardorum,  Brittonum,  Francorum,  Anglo- 
rumque  regnis,  Commentatio,  ex  ipsius  Otlis  ImperiaUbus  ad  Otto- 
nem  IV.  Imperatorem,  cum  aliis,  quae  aTersa  monstrat  paginay  nunc 
primum  edita  a  Joachimo  Joanne  Madero.     Helmestadii,  1673,  4to« 

Scriptores  Renim  Brunsvicensium  illustrationi  in8ervientes....cura  Gode- 
fridi  Guilielmi  Leibnitii.  Hanoverse,  1707,  foL  pp.  881—1004,  Gerraiii 
Tilberiensis  Otia  Imperialia  ad  Ottonem  IV.  Imperatorem  ex  MSStis. 

Scriptorum  Bmnsvicensia  illustrantiam  tomus  secundus. . . .  cura  Godefridi 
Guilielmi  Leibnitii.  Hanoverse,  1710,  fol.  pp.  751—784.  Emenda- 
tiones  et  supplementa  Otiorum  Imperialium  GerrasU  Tilberiensiiy 
tomo  prime  editorum  ex  MSStis. 

Antiquus  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  Genrasio  de  Tilbury  vulgo  adscriptus,  £ 
duobus  vetustis  Codd.  MSS.  Nigro  et  Rubra,  in  Scaccario  regie  aaser- 
yatis.  Nunc  primum  editus.  Dialogum  recensuit,  Lectionas  Variantes 
Notasque  adjecit,  ac  Dissertationem  Epistolarem  prsemisit,  Thomas 
Madox.  Londonise,  1711,  fol.  An  Appendix  to  the  first  edition  of 
Madox's  History  and  Antiquities  of  the  Exchequer. 

The  History  and  Antiquities  of  the  Exchequer  of  the  Kings  of  England.... 
By  Thomas  Madox,  Esq.  The  Second  Edition.  London,  1769,  4to. 
Tol.  ii.  pp.  339 — 452.  Antiquus  Dialogus  de  Scaccario,  &c.  The  same 
title  throughout  as  in  the  previous  edition. 

Translation. 

The  Ancient  Dialogue  concerning  the  Exchequer,  published  from  two 
manuscript  volumes,  called  the  Black  Book  and  the  Red  Book.  Pub- 
lished originally  in  Latin,  by  Tho.  Madox,  Esq.  Historiographer.  Now 
carefully  translated  into  English,  by  a  gentleman  of  the  Inner  Temple. 
London,  1758,  4to. 

negotiis  tam  publicis  quam  familiaribus,  necnon  curiee  et  judlciis  agitur. 
Hie  si  forte  in  manus  tuas  inciderit,  cave  ne  se  effugiat ;  utilis  enim  poterit 
futuris  esse  temporibus  et  jocundus  his  qui  de  regni  statu  sub  pnedicto 
principe  solliciti  fuerint.    Dialog,  de  Scacc.  p.  369  (second  ed.) 


Died  1190.]    Baldwin  arohbp.  op  Canterbury*  291 


BALDWIN  ARCHBISHOP  OP  CANTERBURY. 

Archbishop  Baldwin  is  best  known  in  history  as  the 
preacher  of  the  third  crusade.  He  is  said  to  have  been 
born  of  poor  parents  in  the  city  of  Exeter,  where  he 
gained  his  living  by  exercising  the  profession  of  school- 
master^ until,  having  taken  holy  orders,  and  having 
attracted  notice  by  his  literary  acquirements  and  by  his 
piety,  he  was  raised  to  the  dignity  of  archideacon,  which 
however  he  resigned  in  order  to  become  a  monk  in 
the  Cistercian  abbey  of  Ford  in  Devonshire.  We  learn 
from  his  friend  Giraldus  that  he  here  so  far  outshone 
his  brethren  in  the  virtues  requisite  for  the  monastic  life, 
that  within  a  year  after  he  had  assumed  the  habit  he  was 
elected  abbot.*  A  few  years  afterwards  he  was  promoted 
to  the  bishopric  of  Worcester,  to  which  he  was  consecrated 
in  llSO.t  In  1184,  he  rendered  himself  remarkable  by 
his  spirited  opposition  to  the  powerful  Ranulph  de  Glan- 
ville,  in  protecting  from  his  vengeance  a  knight  named 
Gilbert  de  Plumptun.t  In  1184,  after  the  death  of  arch- 
bishop Richard,  the  right  of  election  to  the  primacy  be- 
came a  subject  of  obstinate  contention  between  the  monks 
of  Canterbury  and  the  bishops  of  the  province,  and,  the 
king  having  interfered  in  vain,  both  parties  carried  their 
claims  before  the  pope.  After  a  great  expenditure  of 
money  and  time,  the  bishops  obtained  the  right  of  voting 

♦  Giraldus  Cambr.  Itmerar.  Camb.  lib.  ii.  c.  14.    Genraa.  Dorob.  Act. 
Pontif.  col.  1675.    Cfodwin,  de  Epiaoopia. 
t  Wliarton,  Angl.  Sac.  vol.  i.  p.  447. 
X  Roger  Horeden,  p.  623. 

u  2 


292      BALDWIN  ARCHBP.  OF  CANTERBURY.     [Died  1190. 

in  the  election^  and  the  king  appointed  a  time  and  place 
for  the  election.  But  the  monks  were  still  obstinate^  and 
refused  to  attend,  whereupon  the  bishops  proceeded  to 
choose  Baldwin  bishop  of  Worcester,  and  the  king  con- 
firmed their  election.  With  some  difficulty  the  king  at 
last  persuaded  the  monks  to  comply,  and  Baldwin  was 
consecrated  archbishop  of  Canterbury  on  the  19th  of  May 
1 1 85.  The  monks  were,  however,  never  sincerely  recon- 
ciled to  him,  and  he  was  engaged  in  constant  disputes  with 
them  during  the  remainder  of  his  life.*  In  1 1 88,  after 
the  capture  of  Jerusalem  by  Saladin  in  the  latter  part  of 
the  preceding  year,  archbishop  Baldwin  took  the  cross, 
and  travelled  over  the  kingdom  to  preach  a  general  crusade. 
He  was  accompanied  by  Oiraldus  Cambrensis,  and  in  part 
of  his  route  by  Ranulph  de  Glanville,  and  his  success  was 
so  great  that  in  Wales  alone  he  raised  about  three  thousand 
men.f  The  advanced  age  of  king  Henry,  and  other  cir- 
cumstances, rendered  the  archbishop's  exertions  on  this 
occasion  useless,  but  on  the  accession  of  Richard  I.  he 
again  entered  with  zeal  into  the  project  of  a  crusade.  In 
1189,  soon  after  king  Henry's  death,  Baldwin  consecrated 
at  once  four  bishops,  Godfrey  of  Winchester,  William  of 
Ely,  Hubert  of  Salisbury,  and  Richard  of  London ;  and 
within  a  few  days  after,  by  the  award  of  the  pope,  a  final 
reconciliation  was  effected  between  him  and  his  monks, 
on  the  condition  that  on  one  side  the  prior  whom  the 
archbishop  had  appointed  against  the  will  of  the  monks 
should  be  deposed,  and  the  chapel  which  he  had  built  in 
the  suburb  of  Canterbury  should  be  demolished,  while  on 
the  other  side  the  monks  should  promise  to  be  obedient 
in  future  to  the  mandates  of  the  archbishop.    The  arch- 

*  An  account  of  these  disputes  will  be  found  in  Oervase  of  Dover,  coU. 
1676^1678,  and  in  Godwin, 
t  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  Itin.  C^mb.  lib.  i.  c.  }.  and  lib.  ii,  c.  13. 


Died  1190.]    Baldwin  archbp.  of  canterbury.    293 

bishop  thereupon  chose  another  prior  with  the  consent  of 
the  monks,  but  they  deposed  him  as  soon  as  they  received 
intelligence  of  Baldwin's  death.*  Soon  after  his  disputes 
with  the  monks  were  thus  appeased,  archbishop  Baldwin 
quitted  England  and  embarked  at  Marseilles  for  Syria, 
where  he  arrived  when  the  Christians  engaged  in  the  siege 
of  Acre  were  disheartened  by  the  want  of  provision  and 
the  desolations  of  pestilence,  and  his  last  days  were  occu- 
pied in  administering  help  and  comfort  to  the  sufferers.f 
He  himself  died  before  the  end  of  the  year  1190.:!: 

Giraldus  describes  archbishop  Baldwin  as  a  man  of  a 
darkish  complexion,  of  an  open  and  handsome  countenance, 
of  mean  stature,  and  in  body  rather  slender  than  corpident. 
He  was  modest  and  sober  in  his  living,  a  man  of  few  words, 
and  slow  to  anger.  But  Giraldus  adds  (which  seems  in- 
consistent with  his  unflinching  opposition  to  the  monks 
of  Canterbury,)  that  he  wanted  vigour  and  severity  of 
character,  and  that  on  account  of  his  mildness  and  remis- 
ness  in  enforcing  discipline,  he  was  better  fitted  to  be  a 
simple  monk  than  an  abbot  or  a  bishop ;  and  he  assures 
us  that  his  negligence  in  this  respect  was  so  well  known, 
that  on  one  occasion  the  pope  wrote  him  a  letter  in  which 
he  addressed  him  ironically  as  monacho  /erventissimoy  ab- 
bait  calidoy  episcopo  tepido^  archiepiscopo  remisso. 

Baldwin  appears  to  have  spent  much  of  his  time  in 
literary  pursuits.  His  principal  works  now  extant  are  a 
treatise  de  commendatione  fidei;  another,  de  sacramento 
altaris,  which  was  written  while  he  was  abbot  of  Ford, 
and  dedicated  to  Bartholomew  bishop  of  Exeter ;  and  six-* 
teen  tracts  on  various  religious  subjects.  All  these  books 
have  been  printed.    They  are  written  in  a  style  which 

*  Roger  HoTcdeD,  Annal.  p.  661 . 

t  Giraldtti  Cambrensis,  Itin.  Camb.  lib.  ii.  c.  14. 

t  Roger  Hoveden,  Annal.  p.  685. 


294      BALDWIN  ABCHBP.  OF  CANTKEBURT.    [Died  1190. 

shows  their  author  to  have  been  a  man  of  deep  reading. 
The  following  extract  from  die  second  of  the  short  tracts, 
entitled  De  corruptis  morUms  cJeri  et  pojpuli,  contains  some 
reflections  on  the  manners  of  his  age,  and  exhibits  the 
expectation  so  prevalent  in  the  twelfth  century  that  the 
world  was  approaching  to  its  end. 

Signa  qnoque,  qnse  diem  jndicii  prseventura  sunt,  presentibns  morib«i 
nostril  oonfignrabantur,  et  qaalia  Tisibiliter  fiitara  flunt,  talia  Bpiritoaliter  in 
nobis  jam  apparent.  Scriptum  est :  Sol  convertetur  in  tenebrasy  et  lona  in 
sangninemy  anteqnam  yeniat  dies  Domini  magnus  et  terribilis.  Quod  in  fir- 
mamento  sunt  sol  et  luna,  hoc  in  ecclesia  Dei  sunt  ordo  rectomm  et  yita 
snbditonun :  ecclesiastica  quoqne  anthoritas,  et  s«cnlaris  potestas.  I/uia 
sole  inferior  est,  et  a  se  non  Inceti  sed  a  sole.  Sic  et  yita  subditonun  infe- 
rior est  quam  yita  prselatomm»  per  quos  accendi  debent  et  illominari.  Ad 
eos  qnippe  dictum  est :  Vos  estis  lux  mnndi.  In  lis  autem  rectoribns,  qui 
ignorant  et  errant,  qui  cnci  sunt  et  duces  csooram,  sol  oonyertitnr  in  tene- 
bras ;  ideoque  in  yita  subditorom  luna  conyertitur  in  sangninem,  in  sangoi- 
nem  yidelicet  corruptionis  et  cmdelitatLs.  Ecce  enim  refrigescit  cbaritas 
mnltomm,  et  abnndat  iniqnitas.  Ascendit  sanguis  de  lacn  usque  ad  frtenos 
equorum,  usque  ad  rectores  populoram,  et  sangftts  sangninem  tetigit.  Non 
inyeniunt  laid  in  nobis  quod  debeant  imitari ;  inyeniunt  quod  yolunt  per- 
sequi.  Persequuntur  nos  calumniis,  persequuntur  injuriis,  persequuntnr  nos 
damnifl,  declarationibus,  opprobriis ;  tandem  persequuntur  et  gladiis.  Nu- 
per  enim  furor  persequentium  in  capite  nos  yulnerayit ;  qui  Christi  Domini 
beatissimum  Thomam  prsesulem  nostrum,  ob  insignem  ecclesiasticse  Uber- 
tatis  defensionem,  usque  ad  mortem  persecuti  sunt.  Et  si  yerum  est,  quod 
causa  rei  fama  sparsit,  et  multorum  oonscientia  metuit,  yita  nostra  indisd- 
plinata  tanti  mali  seminarium  fuit,  tantique  odii  fomitem  ministrayit.  Non 
enim  existimayit  nos  homo  sicut  ministros  dei  et  dispensatores  mytteriorum 
Dei ;  sed  judicium  Dei  portabit,  quicunque  est  ille. 

A  Posnitential  by  this  prelate  is  preserved,  with  some 
other  tracts,  in  a  manuscript  in  the  archiepiscopal  library 
at  Lambeth.*  The  old  bibliographers  ascribe  to  him,  in 
addition  to  the  works  already  mentioned,  commentaries  on 
the  books  of  Eangs ;  on  the  sacraments  of  the  churdi ;  a 
collection  of  thirty-three  sermons ;  a  collection  of  epistles; 
and  other  books  with  the  titles,  De  orthodoxcR  fidei  dog- 
nuitibm;  De  sectia  htereticorum ;  De  unitate  cTuxaritatis ; 

*  See  Wharton.    Auctuar.  Hist.  Dogmat.  J.  Usserii»  pp.  407—409. 


Reign  of  Henry  IL]      Walter  mapes.  295 

De  sacerdotio  Joannis  Hyrcani;  Super  eruditione  Criraldi ; 
De  amore  ;  Contra  Henricum  fVintoniensem ;  Commendatio 
virginitaiis;  Carmen  devotionis;  De  cruce;  De  angeli  nuncio; 
Mythohgia;  De  utUitate  et  virtute  sermonie  dei  vivi. 
Several  of  his  tracts  and  sermons  are  preserved  in  a  MS. 
at  Lambeth.  Some  of  the  books  mentioned  in  the  above 
list  are  of  very  doubtfal  authority. 

Edition*. 

The  treatise  De  Sacramento  Altaris  is  said  by  Tanner  to  have  been  printed 

at  Cambridge  in  1591,  8vo.  and  in  1531,  4to. 
BibliothecsB  Patmm  Cisterdensiiun.  • . .  tomns  quintus. . .  •  Lahore  et  studio 

F.    Bertrandi    Fissier.     Bono-fonte,    Anno  Domini,    166S,   fbl.  pp. 

I — 159.    Baldaini,  ex  abbate  Fordensi  ordinis  Cisterc.  Cantuariensis 

archiepiscopi,  opera.    The  sixteen  tracts  and  the  treatises  De  commen- 

daitione  fidei  and  De  sacramento  altaris. 


WALTER  MAPES. 

Walter  Mapes,  or  more  correctly  Map,*  was  one  of 
the  most  remarkable  of  the  literary  men  at  the  court  of 
Henry  II.  He  was  a  native  of  the  borders  of  Wales, 
probably  of  Gloucestershire  or  Herefordshire ;  t  and  his 
parents,  he  tells  us,  had  rendered  important  services  to 
king  Henry  both  before  and  after  his  accession  to  the 
throne.J  Mapes  studied  in  the  University  of  Paris, 
where,  as  he  informs  us,  he  was  witness  to  many  of  the 
tumults  between  the  scholars  and  the  townsmen;§  and  he 

*  He  gives  himself  this  name  in  the  last  chapter  of  his  treatise  De  Nvgis 
Curialiumt  and  it  is  so  spelt  in  all  the  most  authentic  docmnents.  The 
other  has  been  adopted  more  popularly  in  modern  times. 

t  He  calls  himself  a  Marcher  (qui  marchio  sum  Walensihus.  De  Nug. 
Cur.  Distinc.  ii.»  c.  S3),  and  calls  the  Welshmen  his  countrymen  (Compa- 
triotse  nostri,  Distinc.  ii.  c.  20).  He  tells  so  many  Herefordshire  legends  in 
this  book,  that  we  may  be  led  to  suppose  him  of  that  county.  He  calls 
England  nuiternostraf  Distinc.  iv.  c.  1. 

%  De  Nug.  Cur.  Distinc.  v.  c.  6. 

$  De  Nug.  Cur.  Distinc.  y.  c.  5. 


296  WALTER  MAPES.  [ReiffH  of 

tells  us  in  another  part  of  his  work  that  he  had  attended 
the  school  of  Girard  la  Pucelle,*  which  was  probably  in 
or  soon  after  11 60,  when  that  eminent  teacher  is  said  to 
have  commenced  lecturing  there.  Soon  after  this  he  ap- 
pears to  have  been  at  the  court  and  in  the  favour  of  the 
English  king.  He  was  familiar  in  the  household  of 
Thomas  Becket^  and  repeats  conversations  he  had  with 
that  remarkable  man,  before  he  was  made  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,t  which  event  occurred  in  1162.  In 
11789  Walter  Mapes  presided  at  the  assize  at  Glouces- 
ter as  one  of  the  judges  ambulant,^  and  he  can  hardly 
then  have  been  less  than  thirty  years  of  age.  In  the  same 
year  he  was  with  the  court  at  Limoges,  and  had  the  care 
of  providing  for  Peter  archbishop  of  Tarentabe ;  §  and  he 
appears  to  have  accompanied  the  king  during  his  war 
against  his  sons.||  The  next  event  of  his  life  of  which  he 
gives  us  any  notice  was  a  mission  to  the  court  of  Louis 
le  Jeune,  king  of  France,  with  whom  he  lived  a  short  time 
on  intimate  terms ;  and  soon  after  this  he  was  sent  by 
the  English  king  to  attend  the  council  which  had  been 
called  by  pope  Alexander  III.  at  Rome,  and  in  his  way 
was  hospitably  entertained  at  the  court  of  Henry  the 
Liberal,  count  of  Champagne.1[  At  this  council  Mapes 
was  held  in  so  much  consideration  that  he  was  deputed 
to  examine  and  argue  with  those  deputies  of  the  then  rising 
sect  of  the  Waldenses,  who  had  been  sent  to  Rome  to 

*  De  Nag.  Cur.  Distinc.  ii,  c.  7.  Vidi  Parisiua  Lucam  HuDgarum  in 
schola  magistri  Girardi  Puellse. 

t  De  Nug.  Cur.  ii.  23. 

t  Madox,  Hist.  Excheq.  vol.  i.  p.  701.  from  the  Mag.  Rot.  19  H.  II. 
Giraldua  Cambrensis  informs  us  that  Mapes  frequently  acted  with  the  judges 
itinerant. 

S  De  Nug.  Curial.  Distinc.  ii,  c.  3. 

II  De  Nug.  Cur.  Distinc.  iy.  c.  1. 

^  De  Nug.  Cur,  Distinc.  y.  c,  5* 


Henry  //.]  walteb  mapes.  297 

obtain  the  papal  authority  for  preaching  and  reading  the 
Scriptures  in  the  vernacular  tongue.*  This  council  was 
probably  the  Lateran  council  held  in  the  year  1179. 

Walter  Mapes  informs  us  that  he  was  the  personal 
enemy  of  the  king's  illegitimate  son  Geofirey^  afterwards 
archbishop  of  York^  but  that  his  own  great  influence  with 
his  sovereign  shielded  him  from  his  resentment ;  Mapes 
had  resisted  several  of  Geofirey's  acts  of  extortion  and 
injustice^  and  had  smswered  his  threats  with  cutting 
sneers.  When  Geofirey  was  elected  to  the  see  of  Lin- 
coln, about  the  year  1176,  Mapes  was  appointed  to  suc- 
ceed him  as  canon  of  St.  Paul's^f  and  with  this  appoint- 
ment he  also  held  that  of  precentor  of  Lincoln.^  He 
likewise  held  many  other  smaller  ecclesiastical  preferments, 
among  which  was  the  parsonage  of  Westbury  in  Glou- 
ce8tershire.§ 

Mapes  appears  to  have  had  a  special  employment  in  the 
court  of  the  young  king  Henry,  after  he  had  been  crowned 
by  his  father,  until  his  untimely  death  in  1182,  and  he 
shows  great  afiection  for  the  memory  of  that  prince,  and 
speaks  leniently  of  his  errors.  ||  It  appears  by  the  anec- 
dotes related  by  himself  and  by  Giraldus  Cambrensis  that 
he  accompanied  king  Henry  II.  in  nearly  all  his  pro- 
gresses. He  was  with  him  in  Anjou  soon  after  the  elec- 
tion of  Geofirey  to  the  archbishopric  of  York,  in  1183.1[ 
In  1196  Mapes  was  appointed  archdeacon  of  Oxford;** 
from  which  date  we  lose  sight  of  him  entirely. 

*  The  account  of  his  interview  with  the  Waldenses  is  given  in  the  De 
Nag.  Car.  Diatinc.  i.  c.  31. 

t  De  Nug.  Car.  Distinc.  v.  c.  6. 

t  In  a  charter  of  Ralph  de  DicetOi  given  in  Tanner,  Mapes  is  described  as 
Ltncolniensis  Ecclesiae  precentor  et  noster  concanonicus. 

§  Giraldas  Cambrensis,  Spec.  Eccles.  in  the  Appendix  to  the  Introduction 
to  the  Latin  Poems  commonly  aHribated  to  Walter  Mapes,  pp.  xzxi,  andzzxiv. 

II  De  Nug.  Cor.  Distinc.  iv.  c.  1. 

^  De  Nog.  Cur.  Distinc.  v.  c.  6. 

•*  De  cantorc  Lincolniensi  Waltero  Map  in  Oxenefordensem  archidia* 


298  WALTER  MAPES.  [Beiffn  o/ 

We  owe  these  few  details  of  the  life  of  Walter 
Mapes  chiefly  to  his  own  treatise  De  Nugis  Curialium. 
He  was  evidently  a  man^  not  only  of  much  learning 
and  extensive  readings  but  of  great  taste  for  lighter 
literature.  His  mind  appears  to  have  been  stored  with 
legends  and  anecdotes^  and  he  was  universally  admired 
for  his  ready  wit  and  humour.  He  speaks  of  himself 
as  enjo3^ng  the  reputation  of  a  poet,*  but  he  gives  us 
no  clue  to  the  character  of  the  compositions  by  which 
he  had  entitled  himself  to  this  name.  His  Latin  is  very 
unequal ;  but  we  are  perhaps  not  entirely  competent  to 
pronounce  judgment  in  this  respect^  as  the  text  in  tibe 
unique  manuscript  of  his  prose  Latin  work  which  has  come 
down  to  us  is  extremely  corrupt.  His  style  is  in  general 
not  pure ;  he  often  becomes  wearisome  by  his  attempts 
at  embellishment,  and  his  writings  are  too  much  inter- 
spersed with  puns  and  jests.  His  knowledge  of  the 
world  was  evidently  extensive,  and  his  observations  on 
men  and  politics  are  judicious  and  acute.  He  sometimes 
rises  above  the  prejudices  of  his  age,  as  in  his  account  of 
Arnold  of  Brescia  in  his  book  De  Nugis  Curialium,  whilst 
at  other  times  he  is  influenced  by  the  weakest  feelings  of 
superstition,  as  in  what  he  says  of  the  miracles  of  Peter 
archbishop  of  Tarentaise  and  of  the  monk  Gregory  of  Glou- 
cester in  the  same  work.  Mapes  is  distinguished  by  the 
same  love  of  the  popular  legends  of  his  country  which 
was  so  remarkable  in  his  friend  Giraldus  Cambrensis. 
His  sketch  of  the  history  of  the  Anglo-Norman  kings 
down  to  his  own  time,  with  which  his  treatise  De  Nugis 
Curialium  closes,  is  invaluable. 


conum  tranglatione  facto.    Rad.  do  Dioet.  col.  695,  Conf.  joh.  Bromtoiii 
Chron.  col.  1271. 
*  Conf.  De  Nog.  Curial.   Difitinc.  i.  c.  10,  Distinc.  W.  e.  S,  mdDistinc. 

T.  0.  1. 


1 


Heiiry  I/.]  Walter  mapeb.  299 

The  earliest  work  that  we  can  trace  firom  the  pen  of 
this  writer  is  a  playful  treatise  against  marriage^  in  Latin 
prose.  Mapes  says  that  he  once  found  one  of  his  in- 
timate friends  in  the  court  in  a  state  of  great  melancholy^ 
and,  on  questioning  him,  he  discovered  that  he  was  not 
only  in  love  but  that  he  was  actually  going  to  marry. 
Mapes  expostulated  with  his  friend  on  what  he  looked 
upon  as  a  rash  action ;  but  finding  no  favourable  hearing, 
he  wrote  him  this  tract  in  the  form  of  an  Epistle,  address- 
ing his  friend  by  the  feigned  name  of  Rufinuiy  and  appro- 
priating to  himself  that  of  Valerius.  He  takes  as  his  text 
the  line, 

Loqni  probibeor,  et  tacere  hon  possmn, 

and  enforces  his  arguments  by  examples  taken  from  an- 
cient fable  and  history,  and  from  the  Old  Testament. 
Mapes  tells  us  that  this  work  was  much  admired  when  it 
was  made  public,  and  that  copies  of  it  were  speedily 
spread  abroad,  but  that,  it  being  published  anonymously, 
there  were  some  who  would  have  deprived  him  of  the 
honour  of  being  its  author.*  In  fact,  this  treatise  is  still 
rather  common  in  manuscripts,  under  the  title  Dissuasio 
Valerii  ad  Rufinum  phUosqphum  de  dv>cenda  meore.  He 
subsequently  acknowledged  the  authorship  of  this  Epistle, 
and  inserted  it  in  his  larger  work  De  Nugis  Curiodium. 

This  latter  work  is  imfortunately  preserved  in  only  one 
manuscript  (in  the  Bodleian  Library  at  Oxford),  and  that 
a  very  incorrect  one.  It  is  divided  into  five  books,  or,  as 
as  he  calls  them,  Distinctiones,  and  forms  a  singular  med- 
ley of  various  subjects.  Mapes  tells  us  that  it  was  written 
at  the  court  by  snatches  (raptimj,  at  different  times  and 


*  Seimas  banc  [Epiatolam]  plaovisse  mnltifli  avide  rapitoTt  traiucribitiir 
intentei  plena  joconditate  legitor ;  meam  tamen  eaae  quidam  sed  de  plebe 
ttegaat.    De  Nug.  Ciffial.  Dutinci  i?.  e.  5. 


300  WALTER  MAPES.  [Reign  of 

under  different  circumstances;  and  this  is  sufficiently 
evident,  not  only  from  the  repetition  of  the  same  story  in 
different  parts  of  the  book,  (as  those  of  king  Herla,  of 
the  Cluniae  monk  who  quitted  his  monastery  to  re-^mbark 
in  worldly  affairs,  and  of  Edric  the  Wild,)  but  from  the 
indications  of  several  different  dates  as  the  period  of  com- 
posing different  portions  of  the  work.  It  appears  from 
the  15th  chapter  of  the  first  Distinction,  that  the  author 
was  writing  that  part  of  the  book  when  the  news  arrived 
of  the  capture  of  Jerusalem  by  Saladin,  which  must  there- 
fore have  been  the  latter  part  of  the  year  1187;  in  the 
11th  chapter  of  the  fourth  Distinction,  Mapes  tells  us  that 
Pope  Lucius  had  just  succeeded  pope  Alexander  IIL,  and 
that  the  year  before  this  in  which  he  was  writing  Lucius 
had  been  bishop  of  Ostia,  so  that  it  must  have  been 
written  early  in  1182,  yet  at  the  beginning  of  the  same 
Distinction  he  says  that  he  is  writing  on  St.  Bama- 
bas's  Day  (the  11th  of  June,)  the  same  day  on  which  the 
young  king  Henry  died  in  1182,  evidently  looking  back 
to  that  event  as  being  some  time  past;  and  in  the  sixth 
chapter  of  the  fifth  Distinction  he  speaks  in  one  place  of 
the  death  of  king  Henry  IL,  which  occarred  in  1189,  a 
little  after  which  he  alludes  to  events  which  occurred  when 
Richard  I.  and  Philip  of  France  were  in  the  Holy  Land, 
and  immediately  afterwards  speaks  of  Henry  IL  as  being 
alive ;  so  that  the  work  is  evidently  a  number  of  scraps 
collected  together  and  revised  and  augmented  at  different 
times  by  its  author.  It  appears  that  Mapes  had  become 
disgusted  with  the  intrigues  and  jealousies  of  the  court ;  and 
that  while  in  this  state  of  mind  one  of  his  friends  named 
Geoffrey  requested  him  to  write  a  poem,  the  subject  of 
which  was  to  be  "  The  sayings  and  doings  which  had  not 
yet  been  committed  to  writing.^'  Mapes,  in  answer,  pro- 
ceeds to  compile  a  work  in  prose,  in  which  his  object 


Henry  /!•]  waltrr  mapes.  SOI 

seems  to  have  been  to  show  that  it  was  impossible  for 
any  one  involved  in  the  troubles  of  a  court  to  apply 
himself  to  poetry  with  success ;  but  as  he  proceeds  he 
seems  to  have  lost  sight  of  his  primary  object,  and  goes  on 
stringing  together  stories  and  legends  which  have  no  inti- 
mate connection  with  the  general  subject.  In  the  first 
book  he  begins  by  comparing  the  English  court  to  the 
infernal  regions^  drawing  comparisons  with  the  fabled 
labours  of  Tantalus^  Sisyphus,  &c.,  after  which  he  pro- 
ceeds to  relate  some  legends  and  stories  relating  to 
the  follies  and  crimes  of  courts,  which  are  followed  by 
monastic  stories,  a  bitter  lamentation  over  the  taking  of 
Jerusalem,  accounts  of  the  origin  of  the  different  orders  of 
monks  and  of  the  Templars  and  Hospitallers,  with  some 
severe  reflections  on  their  growing  corruptions,  and  a  long 
and  very  violent  attack  on  his  especial  enemies  the  Cis- 
tercians. Next  we  have  interesting  accounts  of  different 
sects  of  heretics  which  had  sprung  up  in  the  twelfth 
century,  and  the  first  Distinction  ends  with  the  story  of 
three  remarkable  hermits.  The  second  Distinction  begins 
with  tales  relating  to  pious  monks  and  hermits  and 
their  supposed  miracles,  which  are  followed  by  some 
anecdotes  of  the  manners  of  the  Welsh,  and  subsequently 
by  a  carious  collection  of  fairy  legends.  The  five  chapters 
of  the  third  Distinction  consist  of  a  series  of  stories  of  a 
very  romantic  nature.  The  fourth  distinction  opens  with 
the  Epistle  of  Valerius  to  Rufinus,  already  noticed,  which 
is  followed  by  another  series  of  tales  and  legends,  many 
of  them  of  great  interest,  from  their  connection  with 
popular  manners  or  with  historical  personages.  Tlie  fifth 
Distinction  contains  a  few  historical  traditions  relating 
to  earl  Godwin  and  Cnut  the  Dane,  followed  by  a  sketch 
of  the  history  of  the  English  court  from  the  reign  of 
William  Rufus  to  that  of  Henry  II.,  which  occupies  the 


S02  WALTBR  MAPX8*  IReiffH  qf 

larger  portion  of  this  division  of  the  work*  The  two 
following  stories  relating  to  the  manners  of  the  Welsh 
will  give  a  notion  of  the  general  character  of  this  singular 
book. 

De  hoapitalitate  Waiensium, 

Contra  hunc  morem  contigit  vir  qiiidain  iUaram  partiam  hospitem  sua- 
oepit,  ipaoqne  relicto  domiy  sumpta  lanceamane  facto  in  agenda  sua  peirezity 
6t  pernoctavit  aliaa,  et  secundo  mane  reyersna  non  inrento  quem  qnserebat 
hospite  quserit  ab  nzore  quo  deveniBset.  At  ilia,  '' Jacebat  dilncnlo,  et 
aperto  contra  se  hostio  visaque  tempestate  maxima  ventorum  et  niyium,  ait, 
DeuB  bone  I  quam  pericnlosa  procella !  et  ego  respondi»  Modo  fadt  bonnm 
perhendinare  ignayo  Tiro  in  domo  sapientis.  Turn  ille  com  magno  gemita 
ait,  Pessima  foemina,  non  perhendino  ;  et  exiliit  cum  lancea,  nee  potui  enm 
reyocare.**  Vir  se  delusum  dicens  ipsam  sua  tranafodit  lancea^  et  cum 
qulatu  flebili  yeittgiis  inhaesit  hospitia,  diuque  secutua  lupnm  inyenit  ocd- 
aum,  et  post  ilium  circa  aemitam  preoedentis  octo,  et  demum  lanceam 
fractam,  post  hec  ipsum  a  longe  sedentem  yidit,  unumque  aed  maximum 
lupum  ipai  de  proximo  insilientem  quem  sequebatur.  Tum  ille  properans 
abegit  lupum,  pedibusque  hoapitia  sui  proyolutua  yeniam  sibi  de  uxoris 
delicto  petit,  enarrans  ab  ilia  ultionem.  Ille  miser  omnino  exammis  fere 
lupum  yidens  expectantem  quid  fieret,  **  Hoc,**  inquit,  "  tibi  pacto  mes  te 
mortis  immunem  concedo,  ut  te  bine  dnm  quid  mihi  yirium  et  yitae  auper- 
est  amoyeas,  quatinus  in  incurau  lupi  qui  mihi  tarn  improbe  quasi  ad- 
hssrere  yidetur  ipsum  interficere  possim. ' '  Secessit  igitur  in  partem  rogatus, 
et  lupus  in  yulneratum  imiit,  et  ab  ipso  lancea  transfixus  est  quam  ei  com- 
modayerat  qui  astabat.  Seminecem  igitur  domum  secom  referena  hospitem 
hospes,  panlo  post  mortuum  sepeliyit.  Hsec  fuit  odii  prima  causa  inter 
generationes  yiyi  et  mortui,  et  ultionis  mutuie  usque  in  hodiemum  diem. 
Cumque  parentes  yiyi  sine  culpa  sint,  sine  yituperio  non  sunt,  ob  causam 
facte  suapicionis  et  proyerbium  uxoris  inyid».  Et  quia  de  Walenaibus  sermo 
coepit,  yeniat  in  medium  judicium  diu  inter  eos  quteaitum  et  tarde  pro- 
ductum. 

De  Luelino  rege  WalenH, 

Rex  Walliae  Luelinus,  yir  infidus  ut  fere  omnes  decessores  ejus  et  poster!, 
nxorem  habebat  pulcberrimam,  quam  yehementius  amabat  quam  amaretur 
ab  ipsa,  unde  se  totum  armayit  in  insidias  castitatis  illius,  et  suspiciosiasima 
xelotipia  decoctua  nihil  aliud  agebat  quam  ut  non  tangeretur  ab  alio.  Per- 
yenit  ad  eum  forte  juyenem  iUarum  partium  elegantissimum,  fiemia,  nobilitate 
morum,  generis,  et  formae,  statuque  rerum  et  personae  felicissimum,  somni* 
asse  quod  cum  ipaa  rem  habuisset.  Delusum  se  dicit  rex,  et  quaai  de  re 
yeraciter  acta  stomachatur,  dolet,  et  dolo  oomprehendit  innoxium,  et  si  non 
obstet  reyerentia  parentum  et  timor  ultionis  ipsum  cruciatibus  affliget  ad 
mortem.    Ut  moria  est  yadem  se  offert  pro  jnyene  tota  cognatioi  et  cayere 


Henry  IL"]  waltsr  mateu.  SOS 

jmlieio  lUti.  Ipse  negat  et  judidnm  itatdm  fieri  petit.  Repulei  de  repulia 
quemntory  et  dam  tenetur  in  vinculiB  Tindictam  difFerant.  Multi  ad  judidom 
8»pe  conyeniunt  tun  jossu  principisi  turn  alterius  inyitatione  partis,  et  in 
omni  oontractn  defectl  plnrea  inToeant  nndeqnaqae  pnidentes.  Tandem 
nnnm  consnlnnt  quern  fama  fiunebant  pnecipunm,  et  res  non  minus,  quibut 
ille,  **  Judicia  terrae  nostra  sequi  oportet,  et  quae  statuerunt  patres  pracepta 
longaque  consuetudine  firmata  sunt,  ntdla  possimus  ratione  destmere. 
Sequamur  eo0|  et  antequam  in  contrarium  decreta  ducent  publioa  nihil 
noTUm  proferamus.  Ab  antiquissimis  promulgatum  est  institutis,  ut  qui  regis 
Wallin  reginam  adulterio  deturpaverit,  mille  solutis  regi  yaccis  cetera  in- 
demnis  liber  abibit.  De  uzoribus  similiter  principum  et  magnatum  quorum- 
cunque  secundum  singulomm  dignitates  constituta  est  poena  sub  certo 
numero.  Iste  accusatur  de  somnio  concubitus  cum  regina,  nee  infieiatur  de 
▼eritate  criminis  confessa.  Certum  est  quod  mille  vaccs  darentur.  De 
somnio  damns  judicium,  quod  juTcnis  hie  mille  vaocas  in  conspectu  regis 
super  ripam  stagai  de  Behthenio  statuat  in  ordine,  sole  luoente,  ut  sint 
umbrae  singularum  in  aqua,  et  sint  umbrae  regis,  yaccae  yero  cujus  ante,  cum 
sit  somnium  yeritatis  umbra.*'  Approbata  est  ab  omnibus  sententia  haee  et 
ezeeutioni  mandata,  licet  objurgante  Luelino. 

Walter  Mapes  was  distinguished  as  a  writer  in  the 
Anglo-Norman  language^  as  well  as  in  Latin.  It  is  to  him 
we  owe  a  large  portion  of  the  cycle  of  the  romances  of  the 
Round  Table  in  the  earliest  form  in  which  they  are  known. 
This  first  series  of  these  romances  consists  of  the  Roman 
de  St  Graal,  or  the  history  of  the  Graal  before  its  pre- 
tended arrival  in  Britain,  brought  by  Joseph  of  Arima- 
thea ;  of  the  Roman  de  Merlin ;  of  the  Roman  de  Lance- 
lot du  Lac ;  of  the  Quite  du  Saint  Graaly  which  is  a  sequel 
to  the  adventures  of  Lancelot ;  and  of  the  death  of  King 
Arthur,  forming  the  Roman  de  la  Mort  Arthtis.  The 
three  latter  were  the  work  of  Mapes,  as  we  learn  from  the 
concluding  paragraph  of  the  Mort  Arthus;  *  and  from  a 
later  writer  of  another  branch  of  the  series,  Helie  de 
Borron,  who  completed  the  Roman  de  Tristan  in  the  reign 

*  The  passage  stands  .thus  in  a  yery  good  MS.  of  these  romances  in  the 
British  Museum,  in  three  yolumes,  MSS.  Addit.  Nos.  10,872-3-4.— Si  se 
taist  ore  maistre  Gautiers  Map  de  I'estoire  de  LAncelot,  car  ben  Ta  toute 
mente  k  fin  selonc  les  choses  que  en  ayindrent,  et  define  ensi  sen  liyre  si 
ontr^ement  que  apr^  che  n'en  poroit  nus  raconter  chose  qn'il  ne  mentist. 


304  WALTER  MAPES.  [Rciffn  of 

of  Henry  III.*  These  authorities  appear  to  intimate 
that  Mapes  translated  his  romances  from  a  Latin  original, 
which  is  distinctly  stated  in  some  of  the  jnanuscripts ;  t 
but  we  have  no  other  evidence  of  the  existence  of  euch  an 
original^  and  it  is  probable  that  a  great  part  of  the  inci- 
dents of  the  story  was  the  work  of  the  writer's  own  imagi- 
nation^ the  whole  being  founded  on  popular  legends  then 
floating  about.  The  love  of  legendary  stories  which  cha- 
racterises the  treatise  De  Nuffis  Curialinm,  is  very  con- 
sistent with  the  fact  that  Walter  Mapes  was  the  author  of 
the  French  Lancelot  and  its  sequel,  but  it  is  singular  that 
the  writer  of  the  latter  should  not,  among  the  numerous 
legends  and  romances  in  the  other  work,  make  the  slightest 
allusion  to  any  incident  of  the  romantic  cycle  of  king 
Arthur. 

The  manuscripts  containing  this  series  of  prose  Ro- 
mances are  rather  numerous ;  but  they  are  mostly  of  the 
latter  half  of  the  thirteenth  and  beginning  of  the  four- 
teenth centuries,  and  no  copy  appears  to  be  known  which 
can  be  attributed  to  the  age  in  which  their  authors  lived. 
From  this  circumstance,  and  the  fact  that  most  of  those 
now  existing  were  written  in  France,  the  manuscripts 
cannot  be  considered  as  representing  accurately  the  lan- 
guage in  which  they  were  originally  written.  Their  style 
is  not  unlike  that  of  some  of  the  longer  stories  in  the 
treatise  De  Nugis  Curialium.  The  following  incident  from 
the  earlier  part  of  the  QuSte  du  Saint  Graal^  taken  from 

*  £t  meiBinement  je  croi  bien  toachier  BOr  les  livres  que  maistres  Gautiers 
Maup  fist,  qui  fit  lou  propre  livre  de  moDsoingneur  Lancelot  don  Lac. 
Panlin  Paris,  Les  Manuscrits  Fran9ois  de  la  Biblioth^ne  du  Roi,  torn.  i. 
p.  139. 

t  Cy  fine  le  livre  de  messire  Lancelot  du  Lac,  lequel  translata  maistre 
Gautier  Map.  Paulin  Paris,  ib.  p.  147.  The  notion  that  Walter  Mapes 
was  the  author  of  the  supposed  Latin  text,  instead  of  the  translation,  appears 
to  be  a  mere  misapprehension. 


Henry  IL]  WALTfift  mapbs-  S05 

the  manuscript  of  the  British  Museum,  indicated  in  the 
note  to  the  preceding  page,  written  at  the  beginning  of 
the  fourteenth  century,  may  serve  as  a  specimen  of  the 
text  and  language  furnished  by  the  manuscripts  in  gene- 
ral. 

Bnsi  fu  tottte  la  cort  trouble  por  Pamor  de  eels  qui  partir  s'en  devoient, 
et  quant  lea  tables  ftirent  ost^es  par  les  cambres  et  el  palais,  et  les  dames 
furent  assambl^  od  les  cheTalers,  lors  comenga  li  deals  noviaz«  Car  chas- 
cnne  dame  et  damoisele,  fust  espos^e  ou  amie,  dist  al  cheraler  qu'ele  ama 
qu*ele  iroit  o  lui  en  la  queste  du  Saint  Graal,  et  si  1  ot  de  tels  laiens  qui 
ben  si  acordassent,  se  ne  fust  un  iriez  bom  qui  laiens  entra,  vestus  de  robe 
de  religion,  apr^s  souper,  £t  quant  il  fu  venus  devant  le  roi,  si  parla  si 
haut  que  ben  le  porent  tuit  oir,  et  dist,  ''  O^s,  seignor  cbevaler,  qui  av^s 
jnr^  la  queste  du  Saint  Graal,  ce  yus  mande  Nascijens  par  moi,  que  nus 
ne  maint  en  ceste  queste  dame  ne  damolsele  qu'il  n'en  chie  en  peeie  mortel, 
ne  que  nus  n'i  entre  qu'il  ne  soit  confes  ou  aille  k  confesse ;  car  nus 
en  si  haut  service  ne  doit  entrer,  comme  est  li  commencemens  des  grans 
secr^s  des  privaut^s  nostre  seignor,  que  11  bans  maistres  monstrera  aperte- 
ment  al  boineur^  cbevaler  qu'il  a  esleu  i  estre  son  seijant  entre  les  autret 
cheyalers  terriens,  a  qui  il  monstrera  les  grans  merveilles  del  Saint  Graal,  et 
li  fera  yeoir  ce  que  cuers  mortels  ne  poroit  penser  ne  langue  terriene  dire." 

Par  ceste  parole  ne  mena  nus  d'aus  dame  ne  damoisele  avoec  lui,  et  li  rois 
fist  le  preudome  berbergier  bel  et  ricbement,  et  11  demanda  grant  partie  de 
son  estre.  Mais  il  li  en  dist  petit.  Car  il  pensoit  k  autre  chose  que  al  roi. 
La  roine  vint  k  Galaad,  si  s'asist  daUs  lui,  et  li  commencbe  idemander  dont 
il  est,  et  de  quel  pats,  et  de  quel  gent.  £t  il  li  en  dist  grant  partie,  comme 
cU  qui  ass^s  en  savoit.  Mais  de  ce  qu'il  fu  fiex  Lancelot  n*i  ot  il  mot  parl^. 
Et  ne  porquant  as  paroles  que  la  roine  i  aprist,  conut  ele  ben  qull  estoit 
iiez  Lancelot,  et  qu'il  avoit  este  engenres  en  la  fiUe  an  roi  Pelles,  si  com  ele 
avoit  oi  dire  maintes  fois. 

Besides  the  writings  above  mentioned,  tradition  has 
ascribed  to  Walter  Mapes  a  considerable  quantity  of 
rhyming  Latin  verse  of  a  satirical  character,  which  occurs 
frequently  in  old  manuscripts,  and  upon  which  hb  repu- 
tation in  modern  times  chiefly  rests.  The  treatise  De 
Nvffis  Curialium  contains  ample  evidence  of  Mapes'si 
opposition  to  some  of  the  corruptions  of  the  court  of 
Rome,  and  of  his  hostility  to  the  monkish  orders  in  gene- 
ral, and  more  especially  to  the  Cistercians.  A  long  chap-* 
ter  of  the  book  just  quoted  is  filled  with  anecdotes  of  the 

VOL.  II.  X 


806  WALTJBR  HAPBS.  [Rdgn  of 

rapacity  of  the  Cistercian  monks  both  in  England  and 
abroad^  and  Giraldus  Cambrengis  has  preserred  several 
of  his  oral  remarks  against  the  same  order**  Giraldus 
informs  us  that  this  hostility  arose  from  the  unjust  en- 
croachments of  the  Cistercian  monks  of  Newenham  in 
Gloucestershire  on  the  possessions  of  his  own  church  of 
Westbury  j  and  he  tells  us  that  when  on  several  occasions 
he  was  one  of  the  judges  itinerant,  and  as  such  obliged  to 
take  the  oath  of  administering  justice  faithfully  to  every 
one,  he  was  accustomed  to  add  ^^  excepting  Jews  and 
Cistercian  monks/'  The  same  writer  tells  us  a  ludicrous 
anecdote  of  an  attempt  of  the  Cistercians  to  persuade  him 
on  a  bad  of  sickness  to  enter  their  order.  In  a  manuscript 
in  the  Ashmolean  Library  at  Oxford  is  preserved  a  short 
poem  by  a  canon  of  St.  Frideswithe's  named  Bothewald^ 
in  defence  of  the  Cistercians  against  the  attacks  of  the 
satirical  archdeacon^f  in  the  rubric  of  which  it  is  stated 
that  Mapes  wrote  against  the  order,  both  in  his  youth 
and  in  his  old  age,  in  prose  and  verse,  and  Bothewald 
quotes  the  following  apparently  as  a  line  of  Mapes's 
poetry,— 

LaDcea  Longini,  gres  albas,  ordo  nefandus. 

It  is  also  remarkable  that  Mapes  speaks  of  himself  on 
several  occasions  as  enjoying  the  reputation  of  being  a 
poet.  On  the  other  htind  the  poetry  which  has  in  modem 
times  been  attributed  to  Walter  Mapes  is  not  written  in 
hexameters,  like  the  line  here  given,  and  is  not  directed 
against  the  Cistercians.  It  consists  of  general  satires 
against  the  corruptions  of  the  court  and  church  of  Rome 
and  the  manners  of  the  clergy,  and  appears  most  com- 

*  Giraldus  Cambrensisi  Speculum  Ecclesise,  printed  in  the  appendix  to 
the  Introduction  to  The  liatin  Poems  commonly  attributed  to  Walter  Mapes, 
p.  xtxi,  et  seq. 

t  Printed  lb.  p.  zxxy. 


Hinry  TL]  waltbb  uapes.  807 

movlj  under  the  name  of  Oolias  or .  Gk)liatdtt8|  whidh 
then  signified  a  person  of  loose  life  who  said  all  he 
thought  without  the  foar  of  any  one*  If  any  of  this  Goli- 
ardic  poetry  was  written  by  Mdpes^  the  S<Screcy  of  the 
authorship  was  so  well  kept  in  his  lifetime^  that  Giraldus 
speaks  against  them  and  their  supposed  author  Oolias 
with  great  harshness  in  a  chapter  of  the  same  book  in 
which  he  dwells  with  so  much  warmth  on  his  friend 
Mapes's  praise^*  and  he  cites,  as  an  example,  some  lines  of 
one  of  the  poems  which  has  been  most  constantly  attri* 
buted  to  this  writer^  the  Can/essio  GoUm»  A  large  portion 
of  this  poetry  is  certainly  not  the  work  of  Mapes ;  indeed 
it  can  hardly  be  dated  earlier  than  the  reign  of  Henry  III. 
It  is  not  necessary  here  to  do  more  than  refer  to  the  list 
in  Leyser^t  and  to  the  collection  printed  under  the  title 
of  The  Latin  Poems  commonly  attributed  to  Walter 
Mapes.  The  poem  which  we  hate  the  strongest  reason  for 
beliering  Mapes  to  have  written  is  entitled  jipocalypsU 
GoUm  qriiccpi*  It  occurs  very  frequently  iti  manuscripts 
<rf  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  centuries^  and  became 
remarkably  popular  at  the  period  of  the  reformation^  when 
it  was  printed  by  Flaoius  Illyrious^  and  reprinted  in  seve- 
ral other  works.  This  poem  is  found  in  manuscripts  in 
the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries  under  the  name  of 
Mapes,  so  that  we  can  hardly  tenture  to  reject  it  TliC 
writer  is  supposed  to  fall  into  a  trance,  during  which 
the  vices  of  the  di£ferent  orders  of  the  Roman  clergy  are 
revealed  to  him.  He  sees  four  Animals  full  of  eyes,  and 
furnished  with  wings,  resembling  respectively  a  lion,  a 
calf,  an  eagle,  and  a  man*    These  are  explained  to  signify 

*  lb.  p.  zzxriil. 

t  Folycarpi  Leyieri  HUtorU  Poetantm  et  Poemftlam  Mtdii  ^Ti,  p.  776. 

X  2 


ftOS  WALTER  MAPE««  [Reifffl  o/ 

the  pope  and  the  three  grades  of  bishops^  archdeacons 
and  dean8« 

Est  leo  pontifez  t ommiu,  qui  devont ; 

qui  Ubras  sitieos  libros  impignorat ; 

marcAin  respiciens,  Marcum  dedecorat ; 

In  avminis  naTigans,  in  nummis  anchorat. 
Eat  ille  Titolaa  praeaal,  qui  pneviua 

in  loco  pascu»  pnecurrit  citias, 

roditqae  niminana  quod  novit  melius , 

et  saginatos  est  bonis  alteiius. 
Est  aquila»  que  sic  alis  innititur, 

archidiaconus,  qui  pnedo  dicitur ; 

qui  videt  a  longe  pnedam  quam  sequitur, 

et  cum  circumvolat  ex  rapto  vivitar. 
Est  quod  induitur  humana  facie, 

decanus  tacitse  plenus  versutise, 

qui  fraudes  operit  forma  justitias» 

piumque  simpUci  mentitnr  specie, 
Ista  sunt  quatuor  alas  habentia, 

quia  circumYolant  rerum  negotia ; 

plena  sunt  oculis,  eo  quod  praevia 

lucra  respicinnt,  et  subsequentia. 

He  goes  on  to  expose  the  faults  of  the  lower  branches  of  the 
clergy  in  the  same  unsparing  manner^  but  more  in  detail, 
pointing  out  their  luxurious  mode  of  living,  their  incontir 
nence^  avarice,  and  injustice ;  and  he  closes  with  the  monks. 

Quisque  de  monacbo  fit  diemoniacus, 

et  cuique  monacLo  congarrit  monachus, 

ut  pica  picae,  ut  psittaco  psittacus, 

cui  dat  ingenium  magister  stomachus. 
Hiis  mola  dentium  tumorem  fauciumi 

lagena  gutturis  ventris  diluvium, 

oris  aculeus  dat  flammas  litium, 

et  fratrum  malleus  calorem  noxium. 
Cum  inter  fabulas  et  Bacchi  pocula 

modum  et  regulam  suspendit  crapula, 

dicunt  quod  dicitur  favor  a  fabnla, 

modus  a  modio,  a  gula  regula. 
£t  sic  lit  ordinis  crebra  transgressio, 

fraudes,  peijuria,  livor,  detractio, 

mentis  esuries,  rerum  distractio, 

ventris  ingluvies,  renum  concuseio. 


Henry  If.]  walteh  mapes«  SO&^ 

This  is  the  general  style  of  the  poetry  attributed  to 
Mapes,  though  ,the  metres  differ.  The  bibliographers  of 
the  sixteenth  century  fell  into  the  error  of  ascribing  to 
him  all  the  rhyming  Latin  poems  of  this  kind  they  found, 
and  they  are  our  only  authority  for  placing  his  name  to 
any  one  of  these  poems  except  the  one  just  described* 
One  of  the  most  remarkable  is  entitled  Confessio  Golue; 
the  hero  is  introduced  making  a  mock  confession  of  his 
three  vices^  the  love  of  women^  the  love  of  dicci  and  the 
love  of  wine.    Of  the  third  he  says, — 

Tertio  capitulo  memoro  tabernam : 

illam  ziiiUo  tempore  sprevi,  neqne  spernaiUy 

donee  sanctoi  angelos  Yenientes  cemam» 

cantantes  pro  mortoo  requiem  setemam. 
Meum  est  propoattum  in  taberna  mori : 

•vinnm  sit  appositnm  morientis  ori, 

ut  dicant  cam  renerint  angelomm  chori, 

"  DeuB  sit  propitius  huic  potatori.'' 

Some  one  at  a  very  late  period  (perhaps  after  the  inven- 
tion of  printing)  took  the  second  of  these  quartains  with 
some  lines  which  follow,  and  arranged  them  as  a  drinking 
song ;  and  this  led  succeeding  writers  into  great  mistakes 
as  to  the  history  and  character  of  Walter  Mapes,  who  bas 
been  termed  "  the  jovial  archdeacon  *'  and  ^^  the  Anacreon 
of  his  age/^  with  various  other  inappropriate  titles.  There 
is  no  known  circumstance  connected  with  him  which  could 
authorise  us  to  look  upon  him  in  any  other  light  than  as 
a  learned  and  elegant  scholar,  a  man  of  good  sense,  high 
cliaracter,  and  strict  morality.  The  confessions  in  the 
poem  alluded  to  refer  merely  to  the  pretended  author 
Golias,  whose  name  stands  at  the  head.  He  speaks 
of  himself  only  as  a  poet  whose  chief  haunts  are  the 
tavern—* 

Loca  vitant  pnblica  quidam  poetarum, 
et  secretas  eligunt  eedes  latebraram  t 


310  ROBERT  PK  BORRON.  [Reign  qf 

fodant,  ipiUnti  Tigllaiit,  nee  laborant  param, 

et  yix  tandem  reddere  possnnt  opoa  danim. 
JejuDant  et  abstinent  poetarum  chor!» 

Iltea  Titant  publisas  et  tnmultnt  fori  { 

ft  Qt  carmen  faoiant  ^ood  non  poaiit  moHt 

morinntnr  atndio,  snbditi  laboii. 
Unlcoiqiie  proprium  dat  nature  mnnns  t 

ego  nnnqnam  potui  loribere  jejwuia  i 
*   m9  jejmiiim  Tincere  posaet  pner  unna  i 

flitim  et  jqonium  odi  tanquam  fdnns. 
UBievlque  proprinm  dat  nature  donnm : 

0go  Teriuf  liwiena  bibo  ▼innm  bonnm, 

et  qnod  habent  meliw  do|U  canponHn  i 

tale  Tinnm  generet  copia  aennonam. 

Editioru» 

The  Latin  Poems  commonly  attributed  to  Walter  Mapes,  ooUected  and 
edited  by  Thomas  Wright,  London»  printed  for  the  Camden  Society, 
1841.    4to. 

Gualteri  Mapes  de  Nugls  Cvrialium  Dlstinctiones  quinque.  Edited  from  a 
manuscript  in  the  Bodleian  Library  at  Oxford,  by  Thomas  Wright, 
London»  printed  for  the  Cemden  Sodety.    4to.    fin  M«/)rMt«) 


ROBERT  DE  BORRON  AND  LUCES  DE  GAST, 

Besides  Walter  Mapes^  two  other  writers  of  the  reign 
of  Henry  the  Second^  employed  themselves  in  compiling 
the  French  prose  romances  of  the  Round  Table.  Their 
works  are  preserved,  but  concerning  their  personal  his- 
tory we  are  almost  entirely  in  the  dark.  To  one  of  these 
writers^  named  Robeht  de  Borron,  we  owe  the  Roman 
du  Saint  Graal  and  the  Roman  de  Merlin^  which  form  the 
first  portion  of  the  series  completed  by  Walter  Mapes,  All 
we  know  of  him  is  that  he  was  the  kinsman  of  Helie  de 
Borron^  wHo  at  a  somewhat  later  period  completed  the  prose 


Henry  IL]  luces  db  gast.  Sll 

romance  of  Tristan,  and  who  tells  us  that  he  was  "  begot- 
ten of  the  blood  of  the  gentle  paladins  of  Barres,  who 
have  always  been  commanders  and  lords  of  Outres  in 
Romenie,  which  is  now  called  France.'^*  Robert  pub- 
lished his  romances  anonymously;  and  among  the 
reasons  which  he  gives  at  the  commencement  of  the 
St*  Graal  for  concealing  his  name,  one  is,  the  fear  that 
some  might  think  worse  of  the  book  on  account  of  the 
humble  merits  of  the  compiler*  He  gives  as  another 
reason,  his  fear  that  people  might  not  believe  the  history, 
if  they  knew  that  it  had  been  revealed  to  an  humble  indi- 
vidual :  so  that  this  writer  at  least  does  not  pretend  to 
have  translated  from  any  other  source. 

LucBs  OB  Oast  was  the  author  of  the  first  part  of  the 
Romance  of  Tristan,  which  forms  a  portion  of  the  same 
series.  The  name  is  differently  spelt.  Cast,  Gant,  and 
Gad,  in  different  manuscripts,  and  in  the  brief  account 
he  gives  of  himself  he  says  that  this  castle,  of  which  he 
was  lord,  was  situated  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of 
Salisbury,  and  that  he  was  an  Englishman  by  birth.f  He 
pretends  to  have  translated  his  romance  from  the  Latin ; 
but  this  was  probably  a  mere  common-place  assertion  of 
the  early  romance  writers,  to  give  an  air  of  greater  authority 
to  their  narratives.  The  style  and  language  of  the  writ- 
ings of  Luce  de  Gast  and  Robert  de  Borron  resemble 
those  of  the  romances  of  Walter  Mapes,  and  it  is  not 
necessary  to  give  a  further  specimen.  The  manuscripts 
of  the  Roman  de  Trietan  are  rare  in  England,  but  there 
is  a  considerable  number  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris. 

*  Paulin  Paris,  Lea  Maantcrits  FranQoiSi  vol.  i.  p.  139. 

t  lb.  p.  128, 133, 136,  139.  M.  de  la  Rue,  who  haa  pat  a  forced  tcaA 
false  conBtraction  oa  the  words,  sappoies  him  to  hare  been  lord  of  Cast  ia 
tformandy. 


312  MINOR   WKITERS.  [RelffU  o/ 


MINOR  WRITERS  OF  THE  REIGN  OP 

HENRY  II. 

The  reign  of  Henry  II.  produced  a  considerable  number 
of  writers  whose  works  are  of  minor  importance,  either 
from  their  brevity  or  from  their  literary  character.  In 
this  class  we  may  place  one  or  two  writers  of  Latin  verse^ 
such  as  Seblo,  who  from  a  canon  of  Tork  became  a 
monk  of  Fountains  abbey^  which  he  afterwards  changed 
for  that  of  Kirkstall,  in  Yorkshire.  Hugh  of  Kirkstall, 
writing  about  the  year  1220^  speaks  of  him  (if  it  be  the 
same  person)  as  being  still  alive^  and  about  a  hundred 
years  old.  He  wrote  a  Latin  song  or  chaunt  upon  the 
celebrated  battle  of  the  standard  in  the  reign  of  Stephen, 
which  is  printed  in  the  Decem  Scriptores,  edited  by 
Twysden,  and  commences  with  the  following  lines, 

David  Ule  manu  fortis,  sceptnim  tenens  SGoticom, 
Armatoram  multa  manu  regnum  intrat  Anglicnnii 
Sed  cum  Tysan  contra  snam  transit  infortuniumi 
Qneni  invadit  tU  evasit  Stephani  Standardium. 

He  is  said  to  have  written  a  similar  chant  on  the  death 
of  Snmerled,  king  of  Man,  in  1164,  beginning  with  the 
words,  David  rege  mortis  lege  clauso  ;  and  three  metrical 
treatises,  De  dictionibus  univocisy  De  dictionibtts  dissilalns^ 
and  De  dictionibus  €BquivociSy  are  likewise  attributed  to 
him.  Another  poet  of  the  same  name,  who  is  said  to . 
have  flourished  about  the  year  1160,  was  a  monk  of 
Dover,  and  is  said  to  have  written  on  similar  subjects, 
De  differeniiis  nominum  et  verborum  and  De  proverbiiSy  as 
well  as  a  commentary  on  the  Pentateuch.  To  one  of  these 
Serbs,  are  attributed  some  Latin  verses  on  the  transitory 


Henry  IL]  minor  WRiTfiRS;  313 

character  of  worldly  things^  which  are  thus  introduced  in  a 
manuscript  in  the  British  Museum  (MS,  Cotton.  Julius 
A.  XI.  fol.  112,  r".) 

Hoe  qtuB  de  mundi  eonlemptu  ver^ificator 
IllusirU  Serlo  nmt  earmina  digna  notari. 
Mnndiu  abit,  res  nota  quidem,  res  usque  notanda, 

Kota  tibi  mundi  sit  nota,  mundus  abit. 
Mnndus  abit,  non  mundus,  id  est,  hsec  macbina  mundi 

DicOy  sed  mundi  gloria,  mundus  abit. 
Mnndus  abit,  tria  sunt,  fuit,  est,  erit,  hoec  tria  mundum 

Mota  movent,  clamant  b»c  tria  mundus  abit,  &c. 

A  writer  named  Serlo,  of  the  same  age,  perhaps  one  of 
those  just  named,  was  the  author  of  a  Latin  poem  against 
the  corruptions  of  the  monks,  preserved  in  manuscripts  of 
the  Bodleian  Library.  There  were,  however,  several 
writers  of  this  name,  foreign  and  English,  whose  history 
is  very  confused.* 

A  Latin  poet  named  Daniel  Church  is  only  known 
by  the  account  of  him  which  Bale  found  in  a  chronicle  he 
discovered  at  London ;  he  was  there  described  as  a  skilful 
writer  in  prose  and  verse,  and  is  said  to  have  held  an 
o£Elce  in  the  household  of  Henry  II.  Bale  attributes  to 
him  a  Latin  poem  entitled  UrbanuSy  a  treatise  on  polite- 
ness of  behaviour.  A  poem  under  this  title,  and  answer- 
ing to  Balers  description,  is  preserved  anonymously  in 
several  manuscripts,  t 

Thomas,   a  native  of  Beverley  in  Yorkshire,  and  a 

*  See  Tanner,  and  an  article  at  tbc  beginning  of  tbe  fourteenth  Tolume  of 
the  Hist.  Lit.  de  France.  It  may  be  observed,  that  Mr.  Stevenson,  in  his 
notes  to  the  Chronicle  of  Lanercost,  has  printed  some  of  tbe  poems  of 
Godfrey  of  Winchester  under  the  name  of  Serlo. 

t  One  in  Trin.  Coll.  Dublin;  another  in  Worcester  Cathedral;  and 
others  elsewhere.    See  also  our  article  on  Henry  I, 


314  MINOA  WBITBBI.  [iM^  ^Zf 

monk  of  the  abbey  of  Fresmont,  in  the  diocese  of  Beaa« 
vu8^  in  Picardy,  wrote  in  verte  and  prose  a  life  of 
St.  Margaret  of  Jerusalem^  a  large  portion  of  whidi 
was  printed  by  Manriquez  in  his  Annates  Cistercienses^ 
under  the  year  1187)  and  some  following  years.  Thomas 
IS  said  to  have  flourished  about  the  year  1 170.* 

A  poet  named  Gualo,  frequently  with  the  appellations 
Britannus  and  Brito,  occurs  as  the  writer  of  a  few  satirical 
rhymes  against  the  corruptions  of  the  monks,  which  occur 
rather  frequently  in  manuscripts,  and  were  printed  anony- 
mously by  Flacius  Illyricus.t  This  poem  begins  with  the 
lines, 

Sacrilegif  monachis  emptoribus  ecdesianun, 
Compotnl  satlrftm,  carmen  per  taeeula  claram  $ 
Quam  quia  vir  magnus  corroborat  Hago  Diennsi 
Noster  amicna  earn  legat  Otto  SuessionensiB. 

Bale  says  that  he  flourished  in  1170,  but  the  date  ap- 
pears to  be  somewhat  doubtfuL 

Anoliher  Latin  poet  who  appears  to  have  lived  during 
the  reign  of  Stephen,  and  the  earlier  part  of  that  of  Henry 
IL,  was  Hugo  SoTi«VAOiNA,  or  Sotavagina,  who  is 
styled  in  a  manuscript  in  the  Cottonian  Library,  in  which 
some  fragments  of  his  poetry  are  contained,  chanter  and 
archdeacon  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter  at  Tork4  Richard 
of  Hexham  quotes  two  lines  of  a  poem  of  "  Hugo  Sote* 
vagina  archdeacon  of  York,''  on  the  battle  of  the  standard.  § 
The  poem  preserved  in  the  Cottonian  manuscript  is  a 

*  See  Leyser,  Hist.  Poet,  et  Poem.  Med.  My.  p.  435. 

t  Flacina  Illyricnsy  p.  489,  under  the  title,  In  monaehoi  eanmn  iaiyri* 
cum»  Tanner  statea  that  Gualo  ia  mentioned  in  the  Poljcraticiu  of  John  of 
Saliflbnry. 

I  Versufl  Hugonis  Sotavaginn  cantoris  et  archidlaconi  eccL  lancti  Petri 
Eborad.    MS.  Cotton.  Yitel.  A.  kli.  fol.  130,  f. 

$  Rio.  Hagvst.  in  the  Decern  Scriptdres,  col.  3S1« 


Henry  IIJ]  minor  wi^itsm»  S15 

declamation,  in  Latin  elegiacs  which  are  not  inelegant  for 
the  time,  on  the  degeneracy  of  his  age,  and  commences 
thus,*^ 

Phllosophiii  qttidtm  qtiiMitiu  qnid  tit  amietM» 

PanQfi  piio»  mflditwiSi  lU  ail,  alter  e^. 
Alteratri  eed  Qemo  potest  modo  dicere  Tcre, 

Sum  velat  alter  tn,  ta  Tclut  alter  ego. 

This  is  followed  in  the  manuscript  by  a  rhyming  poem 
against  the  corruptions  of  the  Cluniac  monks ;  and  then  we 
have  another  short  poem,  much  in  the  same  style  as  the 
other^  and  probably  by  the  same  author^  as  he  states  his 
name  to  be  Hugo,  These  lines  are  addressed  to  a  priest 
named  William^  whom  Hugo  blames  for  his  levity  of 
character; — 

Hugo  laeerdoti  WiUeliDO,  quK  tria  roce 

Re  minime  diatanti  ordine  digna  sno. 
Utile  nil  jugto,  nil  justum  distat  honesto, 

Sed  trIa  rant  «imm,  qui  bene  perepiciet. 


A  chaplain  of  Henry  II.,  named  Walter,  who  is 
sometimes  known  by  the  title  of  Gualterus  Atifflicw, 
was  distinguished  as  a  grammarian.  Having  been  sent  by 
Henry  as  an  instructor  to  his  son-in-law  William  king  of 
Sicily,  the  latter  made  him  archbishop  of  Palermo^  in 
which  town  he  died  in  1177»  Pits  attributes  to  him  a 
book  on  the  Rudiments  of  the  Latin  tongue.'*^ 

Among  the  writers  on  science  (or,  at  least,  on  numbers) 
during  this  reign>  may  be  mentioned  Odd,  abbot  of 
Muremund,  said  to  have  flourished  about  the  year 
1180^  whose  treatise  De  analecticis  Temarii^  or  on  the 
mysteries  of  the  number  three,  is  preserved  in  a  manu« 

*  See  tanner. 


316  MINOR  WRITERS.  {Rdgn  of 

script  in  the  Cottonian  Library,*  and  appears  by  internal 
evidence  to  have  been  written  soon  after  the  death  of 
Bernard  of  Clairvaux.  Bale  attributes  some  other  works  to 
him,  but,  as  it  would  appear,  incorrectly.  William  the 
Clerk  {Gulielmus  Clericus)^  was  an  astronomer  of  some 
eminence,  and  is  said  by  Hoveden  to  have  been  astrologer 
to  John  constable  of  Chester.  He  wrote  a  prognostic 
founded  on  the  conjunction  of  the  planets  in  the  year 
1185,  but  this  appears  to  be  his  only  claim  to  the  title  of 
an  author.f 

The  minor  theological  writers  of  this  reign  are  nume- 
rous, but  many  of  them  possess  very  little  merit  or  im- 
portance. Many  of  the  names  admitted  into  the  lists  of 
medieval  writers,  can  claim  that  honour  only  for  some 
brief  and  unadorned  narrative  of  events  in  which  they 
were  concerned,  or  of  the  pretended  miracles  of  Uie  saint 
who  founded  or  presided  over  the  monastic  house  to 
which  they  belonged. 

A  monk  of  Fountains  named  Richard,  who  was  a 
native  of  York,  lived  at  the  beginning  of  Henry's  reign, 
and  was  the  author  of  a  book  of  Homilies.  He  left  Eng- 
land to  settle  at  Clairvaux,  of  which  house  he  was  after- 
wards chosen  abbot,  and  where  he  formed  an  intimacy 
with  St.  Bernard.  He  was  recalled  to  England  by  Henry 
archbishop  of  York,  who  consecrated  him  second  abbot 
of  Fountains.  He  is  frequently  called  Richard  the 
Sacristan,  as  having  held  that  office  either  at  Clairvaux  or 
at  Fountains.  Hugh  of  Kirkstall,  in  his  history  of  Foun- 
tains abbey,  calls  him  Richard  Fastolf,  and  describes 
him  as  preecentor  in  the  abbey  of  Clairvaux.  His  Homilies 
appear  to  be  no  longer  extant.    A  treatise  De  Harmonia, 

»  MS,  Cotton.  Vespas.  B.  xxvi.  f  Rog.  HoTeden.  Anna!,  p.  625t 


Henty  IL]  minor  writers.  SI 7 

or  De  Musica,  has  been  attributed  to  this  writer,  but  per- 
haps he  is  confounded  with  another  person  bearing  a 
similar  name.* 

A  canon  of  St.  Osyth's  in  Essex,  contemporary  with 
Richard j  wrote  a  life  of  St.  Osyth.  He  is  named  Albe- 
Bicus  PB  Vere,  and  is  said  to  have  belonged  to  the 
poble  family  of  that;  name;  Dugdale  makes  him  the 
second  son  of  the  second  Alberic  de  Vere  earl  of  Oxford, 
who  died  early  in  the  reign  of  Stephen.  A  life  of  St. 
Osyth,  printed  in  the  collection  of  Surius,t  is  supposed 
to  be  the  work  of  Alberic ;  but  its  brevity  renders  it  more 
probable  that  it  is  a  mere  abridgment  of  it.  Bale  and 
Pits  also  attribute  to  him  a  history  of  his  monastery  (which 
Tanner  supposes  to  have  been  only  a  part  of  the  life  of 
St.  Osyth^)  and  a  treatise  on  the  Eucharist. 

Another  biographer  of  this  period  was  William  de 
Wycumb^  prior  of  Lanthony^  and  chaplain  of  Robert  de 
Betun  bishop  of  Hereford.  After  that  prelate's  death, 
which  occurred  in  1149^  William  wrote  a  sketch  of  his 
life,  which  is  printed  in  the  second  volume  of  the  Anglia 
Sacra.  It  is  found  with  two  different  prefaces^  one  ad- 
(Iressed  to  Henry  of  Blois  bishop  of  Winchester,  the  other 
to  Reginald  prior  of  Wenlock.  We  learn  from  an  early 
history  of  Lanthony,  that  prior  William  wrote  a  narra- 
tive of  the  acts  of  violence  and  injustice  perpetrated  against 
his  monastery  by  Milo  constable  of  Gloucester,  which 
gave  great  offence  to  Milo's  son  Roger,  who  eventually 
joined  with  the  monks  of  Lanthony,  to  whom  his  harsh* 
ness  and  severity  had  made  him  obnoxious,  in  ejecting 
him  from  his  office.     William  is  said  to  have  passed 

*  Tanneri  in  v.  Riehardum  AngHeum. 

t  SuriM»  De  prob.  vit.  Sanct.  torn.  iv.  Oct.  7. 


S18  MINOR  WRITBM.  [R9lgn  ^ 

the  remainder  of  his  life  in  retirement  at  Frome.    He 
flourished  about  the  year  1160. 

Thomas  of  Monmouth^  who  appears  to  have  been  a 
monk  of  Norwioh^  and  who  flourished  about  the  same 
time^  wrote  a  life  of  St^  William,  a  ehild  said  to  have  been 
erucified  by  the  Jews  of  Norwich^  as  well  as  a  iUifflttiVi 
of  miracles  pretended  to  have  been  ^rformed  at  his  tomb. 
This  book  appears  to  be  lost :  it  was  dedioitid  to  WiUiim 
bishop  of  Norwich  (11S1-*1175}* 

NioaoLASi  a  monk  of  Durham^  wrote  in  the  same  age  i 
life  of  St.  Godric  the  hermit,  with  whom  he  was  personally 
acquainted.  There  is  a  life  and  miracles  of  St«  Qodrie  in 
MS.  Harl.  No«  323,  Which  may  be  the  Work  of  the  monk 

Nicholas. 

OsBBKT  OP  Clarx,  wbo  beloHgs  more  prop^ly  to 
the  reign  of  Stephen,  is  known  as  a  writer  of  Epistles, 
which  are  preserred  in  a  manuscript  in  the  library  of  Tri^ 
nity  College,  Cambridge  (MS.  Gale,  0. 10,  IG).  He  tells 
us  himself  that  he  was  a  native  of  the  town  of  Clare  * 
(Stoke  Clare  in  Suffolk) }  and  We  learn  from  his  letters  that 
he  was  a  monk,  and  subsequently  prior  of  Westminster* 
He  was  sent  to  Rome  on  the  business  of  his  house  more 
than  once :  on  one  occasion  he  carried  thither  the  com-» 
plaints  of  his  convent,  which  had  been  violently  deprived 
of  some  of  its  possessions }  and  on  another  he  went  on  an 
unsuccessful  mission  from  the  king  to  obtain  leave  to 
establish  a  great  festival  in  honour  of  Edwatd  the  Con^ 
fessor,  whose  body  had  been  exhumed  in  Westminster 

*  Frater  Osbertua  muuicipio  quod  Clara  dicitar  oriundus.  Ep.  9.— 
Frater  Osbertua  de  Clara.   Ep.  18. — Mtmioipii  Clarensis  indigena.  Ep.  34. 


HmirylL]  uitfon  writbrs.  819 

Abbey*  *  It  appears  that  he  wrote  in  commemoration  of 
this  occurrence  a  life  of  king  Edward^  not  now  known  to 
be  extant*  Subsequently  to  this  he  fell  into  some  dis^ 
grace  in  his  monastery^  and  into  disfavour  with  king  Ste- 
phen^ and  suffered  a  temporary  banishment  from  his 
native  oountry«t  His  offence  is  not  very  clearly  inti* 
mated;  but  we  learn  from  other  letters  that  he  was 
involved  in  debt,  and  it  seems  probable  that  he  was  perse- 
cuted by  Jews  who  had  lent  him  money4  Different  oir« 
cumstances  lead  us  to  conjecture  that  he  died  early  in  the 
reign  of  Henry  II.  His  letters^  forty  in  number^  are  not 
of  much  interest.  Two  of  theA  ore  treatises  in  praise  of 
virginity^  addressed  to  Adelis^  abbess  of  Barkings  and  on 
the  conception  of  the  Virgin>  addressed  to  Warine,  prior 
of  Worcester.  Among  them  we  find  also  a  curious  poem 
in  rhyming  Latin  on  the  accession  of  Henry  II.  to  the 
throne^  beginning — 

Dm  SUutrU  Normonnomm. 

Osbert  was  also  the  author  of  a  life  of  St.  Ethelbert  the 
fnartyr^  of  which  there  is  a  manuscript  in  Corpus  Christi 
College^  Cambridge ;  a  life  of  St^  Edburgha,  from  which 
Lelandhas  given  extracts  in  his  Collectanea ;§  and  a  collec- 
tion of  miracles  of  St.  Edmund  the  martyr^  preserved  in 
the  Bodleian  Library.  A  life  of  Dunstan,  printed  by 
Surius^  has  been  erroneously  ascribed  to  this  Writer* 

Adalbert^  monk  of  Spalding,  who  also  flourished 
about  the  year  1160^  obtaified  some  celebrity  as  a  labo- 
rious compiler  from  the  works  of  St.  Gregory*  This  com- 
pilation^ to  which  he  gave  the  title  of  Speculum  de  statu 

*  Epp.  1  and  6. 

t  Peccatb  auis  exigentlbni  ia  Anglorum  regao  proscriptns.    Ep.  16.    In 
terra  aliena  peregrinns  et  hoapca.    Ep.  IB. 
%  Epp.  34,  S7»  etc.  $  Lelsad.  Collectaa.  vol.  z.  p«  337« 


S20  MINOR  WRITERS.  [Reifffl  of 

hominisy  is  printed  in  the  Thesaurus  Anecdotorum  of 
Martene  and  Durand.  Bale  attributes  to  the  same  writer 
a  book  of  Homilies. 

Radulf^  a  monk  of  Westminster  abbey,  in  which  he 
held  the  office  of  almoner,  was  distinguished  in  the  earlier 
part  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.  as  a  popular  preacher. 
He  enjoyed  the  friendship  of  Laurence  abbot  of  West- 
minster, at  whose  request  he  collected  his  sermons  into 
a  volume,  which  was  completed  under  his  successor  abbot 
Walter,  to  whom  he  dedicated  them.  The  old  biblio- 
graphers attribute  also  to  Radulf  a  series  of  homilies  on 
the  New  Testament,  and  a  treatise  entitled  De  peccatore. 

Walter  Daniel,  monk  of  Rievauz,  is  known  to  us 
through  Leland,  who  saw  a  number  of  his  theological 
writings  in  the  library  of  Rievaux  abbey  a  little  before  its 
suppression.  He  gives  as  their  titles.  Centum  Senteniim ; 
Centum  HomiluB,  beginning  with  the  words  Adventus 
Domini;  a  volume  of  Epistles,  beginning  with  the  words 
Mandasti  mihi ;  De  virginitate  Maria,  beginning  Crebris 
me  Gualterum ;  an  exposition  upon  the  text  Missus  est 
angelus  Gabriel;  De  honesta  virgims  formula,  beginning 
In  primis  hujus ;  two  books  De  onere  jumentorum  austri, 
beginning  with  the  word  Animadvertens ;  De  vera  amicUia, 
in  five  books ;  De  concepiione  beatm  Maria,  contra  Nico- 
laum  monachumJ^  Leland  speaks  of  him  as  the  friend  of 
Ailred^  and  states  that  he  flourished  in  1 1 70,  and  that  he 
died  and  was  buried  at  Rievaux. 

Samson,  a  monk  of  Canterbury,  wrote  at  this  time  a 

*  These  works  are  not  found  in  the  catalogue  of  the  Rievaux  library  printed 
in  the  Reliquiie  AntiquiSi  vol.  il.  p.  180;  but  the  Psalierium  magUtri 
Walteri  gtosainm  there  mentioned  (p.  186)  may  refer  to  this  writer. 


Henry  ILI  minor  writers.  S2L 

collection  of  Homilies^  of  which  Leland  saw  a  copy  at 
Gloucester. 

Robert  of  Glastonbury,  of  which  place  he  was  a 
monk,  and  finally  abbot,  after  haying  been  some  time 
prior  of  Winchester,  wrote  a  narrative  of  the  acts  of  Wil- 
liam and  Henry  bishops  of  Winchester,  which  is  printed 
in  Wharton's  Anglia  Sacra.  He  was  chosen  abbot  of 
Glastonbury  in  1171* 

About  this  time  also  lived  Henry  of  Saltrby,  the 
author  of  a  fabulous  history  of  the  visit  of  a  knight  named 
Owen  to  St.  Patrick's  Purgatory,  a  tract  which  soon  ob- 
tained extensive  popularity,  and  of  which  a  great  number 
of  manuscript  copies  are  still  extant.  Henry  was  a  monk  of 
the  Benedictine  abbey  of  Saltrey  in  Huntingdonshire,  and 
received  his  story  from  Gilbert  abbot  of  Louth,  who  is 
said  by  some  to  have  also  published  a  written  account  of 
the  extraordinary  visions  of  his  hero  Owen.* 

Laurence  abbot  of  Westminster  claims  a  place  among 
our  list  of  minor  theological  writers.  Previous  to  his 
election  to  govern  the  abbey  of  Westminster,  Laurence 
had  been  successively  archdeacon  of  Durham  and  a  Bene- 
dictine monk  in  the  abbey  of  St.  Alban's.  His  sermons 
for  the  different  times  and  festivals  of  the  year  are  said  to 
be  still  preserved  in  Balliol  college,  Oxford.  He  has  been 
frequentiy  confounded  with  Laurence  of  Durham.  Lau- 
rence abbot  of  Westminster  died  in  1176,  and  was  buried 
in  the  northern  part  of  the  cloisters.f 


*  So  Wendover,  sab  an.  1153i  «eems  to  say,  bat  it  i«  perbaps  an  error» 
founded  on  a  mitanderstanding  of  Henry  of  Saltrey't  own  wordf • 
f  See  Tanner,  f*  Lmtrrniiha  Wntm* 

VOL.  XI.  T 


S3S  MiNOii  WRiTXM*  i^Mgn^ 

Adau,  a  Soot,  who  is  laid  to  hare  died  about  the  year 
1 1 80^  wrote  a  numerous  collection  of  sermons,  a  comment- 
ary  on  the  rule  of  St.  Augustine,  a  treatise  on  the  triple 
tabernacle  of  Moses,  and  a  book  De  tr^iei  genere  wnr 
ten^loHania,  which  were  printed  at  Antwerp  in  1659. 
Ftat  of  them  had  been  previously  printed  at  Ptois  in 
1518.* 

Roger  of  Fordb,  in  Devonshire,  was  also  a  minor 
writer  of  this  period.  He  wrote  a  narrative  of  the  martyr- 
dom of  the  eleven  thousand  villus,  which  was  preserved 
in  MS.  Cotton.  Otho  A*  xii.  now  no  longer  in  esdst» 
enoe.  His  account  of  the  Revelations  of  St.  Elizabeth  of 
Flanders,  dedicated  to  Baldwin  abbot  of  Forde  (afterwards 
archbishop  of  Canterbury),  is  extant  in  the  library  of  St. 
John's  eollege,  Oxford.  Roger  also  composed  a  Latin  poem 
in  praise  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  which  appears  to  be  lost. 


Walter,  monk  of  St.  Alban's,  of  which  abbey  be  is 
to  have  been  librarian  and  precentor,  flourished  about  the 
year  1180.  A  chronicle  of  English  aflfairs,  and  a  book 
De  Uteri$  teckM^  are  ascribed  to  him,  but  they  are  not 
known  to  be  now  extant. 

Philip,  prior  of  St.  Frideswithe's  at  Oxford,  who 
flourished  about  1180,  or  soon  after,  wrote  a  narrative  of 
the  miracles  of  the  patron  saint  of  his  house  subsequent  to 
the  translation  of  her  remains,  of  which  there  is  a  copy 
among  the  Digby  manuscripts  in  the  Bodleian  Library. 

The  last  of  the  minor  writers  of  this  reign  to  whom  we  shall 
give  a  place  is  Adam,  elected  abbot  of  Evesham,  in  116  K 

*  Tanner. 


Henry  IL]  minor  writers.  323 

He  was  one  of  the  persons  who  brought  the  pallium  from 
Rome  to  Thomas  Becket  in  1162.*  He  died  in  Nov. 
1191.  Leland  found  in  the  library  of  Evesham  abbey  a 
collection  of  Epistles  by  this  writer^  as  weU  as  two  treatises 
with  the  respective  titles  Exhortatio  ad  saeras  virgines 
Godestovenna  ccmobiu  and  De  miraculo  ewharistue  ad 
MahuMuMi^. 

*  Ralph  de  Dicet.  col.  534. 


T  2 


324 


Section  V. — Reigns  of  Richard  I.  anb  John. 
KING  RICHARD  CGEUR  DE  LION. 

We  have  seen,  under  Stephen  and  Henry  II.,  the  heavier 
Latin  literature  of  the  Anglo-Norman  theological  writers 
giving  way  gradually  to  a  class  of  lighter  productions,  a 
change  which  became  more  decisive  when  the  throne  was 
occupied  by  the  heroic  gallantry  of  Richard,  who  himself 
held  a  distinguished  place  among  the  vernacular  poets  of 
that  age.  Richard  had  passed  much  of  his  life  in  the 
softer  clime  of  the  trobadors,  with  whom  his  name  is  as- 
sociated as  a  writer ;  but,  although  he  is  said  to  have  ex- 
celled in  writing  love-songs,  his  favourite  compositions 
appear  to  have  belonged  to  a  class  more  consonant  with 
his  own  restless  disposition.  These  were  termed  Hrventes^ 
and  were  satirical  or  declamatory  personal  attacks  in  verse 
arising  out  of  momentary  feuds  or  long  cherished  enmities. 
A  few  fragments  of  this  monarch's  poetry  are  still  pre- 
served in  scattered  manuscripts,  and  some  of  them  have 
been  printed.  The  earliest  mention  of  Richard's  talents 
in  this  style  of  composition  is  found  in  the  history  of  his 
expedition  to  Syria,  written  by  Geoffrey  Vinsauf,  who 
tells  us  that,  when  the  crusaders  had  relinquished 
the  design  of  marching  to  Jerusalem,  great  dissensions 
arose  between  the  French  and  the  English,  and  Henry 
duke  of  Burgundy  wrote  an  abusive  song  against  King 
Richard,  which  was  industriously  spread  among  the  sol- 
diers and  sung  publicly ;  in  revenge  of  which  the  king 
composed  a  simUar  poem  to  abuse  the  other  party.* 

*  The  wordi  of  Vinsauf  are  carious.    £t  super  hiec  omnia  Henricoj  dux 
Boifondiie  arrogantiRnequain  spiritus  instiiictu,  yel  selo  forte  daotusliToria 


Died  1199,]      RICHARD  ggbur  de  lion,  325 

On  his  return  from  the  Holy  Land^  Richard^  as  is  well 
known^  fell  into  the  power  of  his  enemy  the  archduke  of 
Austria^  who  retained  him  a  considerable  period  in  close 
confinement.  In  his  prison  he  wrote  a  rirvente  against 
his  own  barons^  whom  he  charged  with  negligence  or 
lukewarmness  in  their  efforts  to  deliver  him^  beginning 
with  the  line,— 

Ja  nnlB  horn  pres  non  dira  sa  razon. 

This  piece  is  found  in  several  manuscripts,  differing 
considerably  in  them  all,  and  sometimes  written  in  the 
dialect  of  the  trobadors,  at  others  in  that  of  the  trouveres.* 
According  to  an  old  story  (the  authenticity  of  which  there 
appears  to  be  reason  for  doubting),  it  was  the  king's  min* 
strel,  named  Blondel,  who  discovered  the  place  of  Rich- 
ard's imprisonment,  the  former  making  himself  known  to 
the  captive  by  singing  a  song  of  his  own  composition, 
which  was  only  known  to  Blondel  and  himself.f 

The  last  incident  we  know  of  the  literary  history  of  king 
Richard  relates  to  his  war  with  the  king  of  France.  The 
dauphin  of  Auvergne  and  his  cousin  the  count  Guy  had, 
at  Richard's  instigation,  revolted  against  Philippe  Au- 
guste;  but  the  English  king,  having  made  a  separate 

inconTenientisy  plvrimnm  cantionia  institiiit  verba  compoaita  publice  canti* 
tari,  verba  quidem  pudenda  nee  proferendum  in  pnblicam,  si  qna  superesset 

ea  componentibns  verecondia Postqnam  hnc  inyidiosaadinventio  passim 

per  ezereitnm  freqnentaretur,  rex  nimiam  super  eo  commotnsy  consimili 
tantom  arbitratus  est  infligendam  yindictam  talione.  Cantavit  igitar  et  ipse 
nonnulla  de  ipsis,  sed  non  plurimnm  laboravit  in  adinyentionem,  quia  super- 
abundans  suppetebat  materia,  quid  enim  siqna  responderet  verba  ad  tot 
fictitia  et  objecta  opprobria.  Galf.  Vinos.  Iter  Uierosol.  lib.  vi.  c.  8,  ap. 
Gale.  It  may  be  observed  that  the  abb^  de  la  Rue's  reference,  **  De  nova 
poetria,  p.  409/'  is  quite  erroneous. 

*  The  best  text  of  this  Sirvente  In  Provencal  wiU  be  found  in  Raynouard, 
Choix,  torn.  iv.  p.  430.  The  northern  version  is  printed  in  M.  Le  Ronx  de 
Lincy's  Recueil  de  Chants  Historiques,  torn.  i.  p.  56. 

t  The  best  authority  for  this  story  is  the  Chronique  de  RainSi  written 
in  the  Uurtoentb  centary»  edited  by  Mt  Louis  Paris,  p.  53« 


326  BICHARO  C<SUK  Dfi   LION.        [ZXcrf  1199. 

truce^  they  were  left  at  Philippe's  mercy,  and,  in  a  moment 
of  irritation  at  Richard's  neglect,  they  entered  into  alliance 
with  his  enemy.  When,  at  the  end  of  the  truce,  the  dau- 
phin and  count  Guy  refused  to  join  the  standard  of  king 
Richard,  he  sent  them  a  bitter  sirvente,  accusing  them  of 
faithlessness,  avarice,  and  cowardice.  The  following  are 
the  two  first  stanzas  of  this  poem,  which  is  preserred  in 
two  manuscripts  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris.* 

Dalfin,  jeuB  Toill  deresnier, 
Voa  e  le  oomte  Gviob» 
QiM  ftm  dB  eotto  «eitoii 
Yob  feifltet  bon  guerrier. 
E  T08  jonstes  ou  moi ; 
B  m*eB  foitMtM  liel  fol 
Com  b'  Aeagrii  i  Rainart : 
Et  sembl^s  dou  poil  lUurt. 

VoB  me  laifltes  iddier 
For  treive  do  guierdon ; 
E  car  imriaB  qu^i  CUiioii 
Non  a  aigeat  ni  deaier. 
Et  Tos  Tolets  riche  roi, 
Bon  d'armea,  qui  Toa  port  foi. 
Et  jo  ittia  ekiehe,  coarC, 
Si  Foa  Tireta  de  Tantre  part. 

The  dauphin  wrote  a  sirvente  in  reply,  in  which  he  de- 
nied the  charges  made  against  him  and  his  cousin^and 
accused  Richard  of  being  the  author  of  all  the  troubles  and 
discord  in  which  they  were  engaged.  The  sirvente  just 
quoted  appears  to  have  been  written  at  the  beginning  of 
October  1198 ;  king  Richard  died  only  a  few  months  after, 
on  the  6th  of  April,  1199.  His  death  was  a  subject  of 
especial  grief  to  the  poets  of  the  day,  and  several  of  their 
metrical  lamentations  on  the  occasion  are  extant.t 


*  The  whole  is  printed  in  M.  Le  Ronz  de  limcf,  Clttnts  Hiatoriqie% 
Tol.  i.  p.  6$.    See  ako  RayBovard»  Choix,  ton.  ▼.  p.  490. 

t  A  UOlad  on  Richaid^a  deatb,  ia  Vrwm^tX  amd  in  Noftben  Fkeaek»  U 
printed  in  Le  Roox  de  lamcf,  loc.  ck.  p.  71.  Hm  two  ant  atanna  of 
another  copy  are  printed  by  Keller  (RooiTarty  p.  4S5)  from  a  ICS.  in  the 
Vatican.    See  also  Gcoffi^  ^^ualf,  Noti  Poetr*  sp.  Leyveri  pt  Wt» 


Died  1199.]      eichabd  cobue  db  lion.  327 

The  following  song^  which  has  been  published  as  that 
which  served  as  the  means  of  making  known  the  place  of 
king  Richard's  imprisonment^  appears  to  be  of  somewhat 
doubtful  authenticity, 

DomnAy  Tottra  bentas» 
E  las  bellas  faiaaosyl 
Ell  bclfl  ollt  anoroi. 
Els  gna  oor  ben  taiiiatst 
0on  aien  empresenata 
De  Toatra  amor  que  mi  lia 
tt  M  trop  atfuiaU. 
Ja  de  Toa  non  portnl. 
Que  major  honorai, 
Sol  en  Yotre  demati 
Q»e  ftntra  dea  Maaa 
Tot  can  de  tos  Tolzia. 

The  following  more  authentic  fragment  of  one  of 
Richard^s  loreniongs  was  communicated  by  M«  Baynouard 
to  the  Annuaire  Historique  for  the  year  1837^  from  a  MS» 
disGorered  at  Aix. 

Ja  df  iOf  pea  DO  m  partiva» 
S'U  plagaef  qulen  a  loi  aerria, 
£t  sivala  d*aitant  m'enrequia 
Que  dieiaea  que  ma  dona  era ; 
Qii'en  ren  ala  bob  wj  mon  yoktf 
Jor  ni  nueliy  ne  matin  ni  aer^ 
Ni  ala  mon  cor  non  desira* 

Genaer  dona  el  mont  no  ni  mira^ 
Guai'  e  blanca  coma  ermiay 
Plua  freaca  que  rosa  ni  lia ; 
Een  ab  non  m*ea  deaeapera* 
Dieuat  ai  poray  Ton  rezer 
Qu'ieu  josta  leia  puesca  jazer ; 
Ben  ai  dregy  maa  trop  mi  tinu 

A.  few  other  scraps  of  the  compositions  of  this  celebrated 
monarch  are  scattared  oter  different  manuscript  ooUee* 
tions.  It  is  ^Bfficttlt  to  decide  whether  as  a  poet  he  ought 
to  be  classed  exohuiTsly  with  ih»  tarobftdors  or  with  ths 
trouT^rest 


328  OUEBNE8  DU  PONT  DB  8T.  MAZBNCE.       [Eeiffn 


GUERNES  DU  PONT  DE  ST.  MAXENCE, 

The  writings  of  the  Anglo-Norman  trouve^es  become 
much  more  numerous  in  this  reign  than  in  the  preceding, 
and  furnish  us  with  several  names  which,  as  their  exact 
dates  are  in  general  uncertain,  we  may  here  place  toge- 
ther. The  first  of  these,  named  Guernes,  who  belongs 
more  properly  to  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  was  a  native  of 
the  town  of  Pont  de  St.  Maxence  in  Picardy.*  He  lived 
afterwards  as  a  monk  at  Canterbury,  and  there  composed 
a  life  of  Thomas  Becket  in  Anglo-Norman  verse.  He 
informs  us  that  he  commenced  this  work  the  year  after  the 
primate  was  slain,  A.D.  1 1 72^  &nd  that  he  completed  it  in  the 
fifth  year  after  that  event,  or  117^^  it  having  thus  occupied 
him  three  years.  We  learn  nothing  further  of  his  personal 
history,  and  he  is  not  known  as  the  author  of  any  other 
work.  The  best  manuscript  of  the  poem  of  Guernes  du 
Pont  de  St.  Maxence  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum, 
MS.  Harl.  No.  270,  which  is  nearly  if  not  quite  contem- 
porary with  the  author.  A  considerable  fragment  of  ano- 
ther copy,  written  apparently  about  the  beginning  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  is  found  in  the  same  repository.  MS. 
Cotton.  Domit.  A.  xi.  Another  MS.,  imperfect  at  the 
beginning,  is  in  the  library  of  Wolfenbiittel,  from  which  it 
was  printed  by  Immanuel  Bekker.    We  believe  there  is  a 

*  The  abb^  de  la  Rae  has,  as  usual,  given  a  rery  inaccurate  account  of 
this  poet,  whom  he  calls  Geiraise,  following  the  later  copy  in  MS.  Cotton. 
Domit.  A.  XI.  He  seems  to  have  taken  very  hasty  notes  of  the  MS.,  and  to 
have  filled  up  the  outline  from  his  imagination.  In  the  latter  part  of  hit 
poem  (p.  160,  ed.  Bekker),  Guernes  speaks  of  himself  as— » 

Guernea  li  ders,  de  Pont  de  Saiat  MeMOoe  nes» 


iC.i/.]    OUBANE8  DU  PONT  DB  ST.  MAXBNOB.     829 

fourfih  copy  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris.  The  poet's 
account  of  himself  is  contained  chiefly  in  the  concluding 
lines  of  the  poemj  which  we  quote  as  a  specimen  of  the 
language  of  the  Harleian  Manuscript. 

Guernes  li  clerc  de  Punt  fine  qi  sun  sermon 
Del  martyr  seint  Thomu  e  de  ea  paistony 
£  meinte  feii  le  lis  li  la  tnmbe  al  baron. 
Mil  n*i  mis  un  snl  mot  se  la  Terit^  nnn. 
De  noz  meffaiz  nus  face  li  plus  Dte  vetr  pardon. 

Ainc  m^  si  bon  Romans  ne  fa  fet  ne  troves» 
A  Cantorbire  fa  e  faiz  e  amendes ; 
N'i  ai  mis  on  sol  mot  ki  ne  seit  yerites. 
Li  Ters  est  d'ane  rime  en  cine  clauses  cnples, 
£  bons  est  mis  Isn^^nages  e  en  France  fai  nes. 

L*an  secnnd  qoe  li  saint  fa  en  Tigiise  ocds 
Cnmencai  cest  Romans,  e  mnlt  m'en  entremis  ; 
Des  prices  saint  Thomas  la  verity  apris. 
Meintefeiz  en  ostai  900  qne  ains  i  escris. 
Par  oster  la  men^nngCi  al  qaint  an  fin  i  mis. 

Ceo  sacent  tut  cil  ki  ceste  vie  orront, 
Qne  pore  verity  par  tut  oir  pnrmnt. 
£  ceo  sacent  tnt  cil  ki  del  saint  traiti^  nnt, 
U  Romans  a  JLatinf  e  cest  chemin  ne  Tont, 
U  el  dient  qae  jeo,  k'encontre  verity  sont. 

This  poem  is  especiaUy  valuable  in  a  philological  point 
of  yiew,  because  we  know  the  exact  date  at  which  it  was 
written.  It  is  historically  important  as  the  earliest  of  the 
lives  of  Becket.  Ouemes  teUs  us  in  the  preceding  extract 
that  he  had  collected  his  materials  from  Becket's  friends 
and  acquaintance,  that  he  had  repeatedly  and  carefully 
corrected  it,  and  that  he  had  read  it  many  times  at  the 
martyr's  tomb.  His  narrative  is  very  clear  and  vigorous, 
and  furnishes  valuable  information  not  found  in  the  same 
detail  in  the  other  biographers;  but,  in  common  with 
them  all,  he  is  prejudiced  in  favour  of  his  hero.  In  de« 
scribing  the  messengers  sent  by  king  Henry  to  the  king  of 
France  and  the  pope,  he  gives  the  following  account  of 
Gilbert  Foliot^  which  we  quote  from  Bekker's  text : 


SSO        OUBRNBi  BU  FOKT  DS  fiTT*  IIAXSKOS*        {jReigU  t^ 

b  wlwmwgeviat  Oikbirt  Fol&ot 
Des  lettres  lont  Mes,  e  fenri  Astaxot : 
Mais  puis  arint  tel  jar  que  SI  t*eii  tint  pvr  sot, 
CcM6  ttMsootrc  Ic  iUttt  Bttfliiiic  cot  psfift  nil  Ml  mot* 
De  SodomecitflMm,  e  nit  Is*  traMi  Lot. 


A  litde  farther  on  Guemes  gi^es  us  a  very  amusing  de- 
scription of  the  appeannoe  of  these  meftengem  before  the 
pope: — 

L  trcwcsqtK  I  Yiot  ^[u  crBTVCinc  ttt  nustKi 

wit  u  raS|  0  1  6VW(£Ufi  1  Ifnlt  d6  WiTMCStPCi 

E  11  qaena  d'Anmdd,  e  Rldun  d'ltMestre, 
Johanz  d'Oxenelbrd,  l^eresqne  d*BzecMtre, 
Hae  de  Gandetile,  Hylalres  de  Cicestre. 

CU  de  Sslitt  Waleii»  Rettab,  i  est  Temur ; 
Henris  H  Ax  Qerold,  qol  ert  des  team  dm ; 
GKlctot  Potiot,  qui  ne  s*l  flst  pas  nms ; 
£  des  autres  plusurs  e  Jovenes  e  dutniix. 
Tels  i  paria  purquant  qui  fx  pur  fol  temtt. 

Devint  la  pape  estofeat  U  meesagier  real: 
Alquant  dlselent  Men,  ptuisur  diaeieDt  ma! ; 
Li  alqaant  en  Latia,  tel  ben  tel  anomaly 
Tel  qui  ftst  personel  del  terbe  impenonil, 
Sioguler  e  plnrd  aveit  tut  pnr  igal. 

Tds  i  ont  des  prdaz  parla  si  egvement, 
Que  la  pape  li  dlst,  *'  Fratre,  tempreement : 
Car  Bieadire  de  hd  m  ««fferaft  Ment.** 
XdBT  panlei  n'ai  pas  tafees  fi  ea  pwaeat, 
Mais  de  90  que  nnt  reqnis  dinai  mun  escient* 
_  • 

The  faittory  is  eontintied  after  Beckefs  deaths  to  gire 
a  particolar  account  of  the  pilgrimage  of  Hemy  IL  to 
Beckefe  aihrine  in  1174« 

Leben  des  h.  Thomas  von  Canterbury,  AltfraiuOsiMlii  hentv|^ben  Toa 
Immannei  Bekker.  Berlifif  1838,  8to« 


tUc^  //«]  BOZUN^  Om  BOSON.  S81 


I 


BOZUN»  OR  BOSON. 

A  trouvere  of  this  name,  of  whose  history  we  are  en- 
tirely  ignorant^  was  the  author  of  nine  short  metrical  lives 
of  female  saints,  preserved  in  a  MS.  of  the  British  Mu- 
seum^ MS.  Cotton.  Domit.  A*  xi,  and  perhaps  of  a  short 
piece  written  in  the  same  style^  entitled  Le  Evangel  trans^ 
late  de  Latin  en  Franceys,  which  immediately  precedes 
them  in  the  same  vohime.  The  author's  name  is  men- 
tioned at  the  conclusions  of  the  lives  of  St.  Mary  Mag- 
dalen (fol.  95,  r^)— 

M^  jeo  pri  Marie  k  dulce, 
Ke  sa  bont^  point  ne  grouce 
De  ayder  Bozun  en  son  mester, 
Ki  sa  yie  Toolt  tranalaterf 
Ke  gent  la  pnssent  plus  amer, 
E  del  Hre  merit  arer. 

and  of  St  Agnes, — 

Jeo  pri  Angtt^,  de  Dieu  clieriey 
K'ele  nas  seit  en  aye, 
£  k'ele  prie  pur  JSoztm, 
Ki  ad  descrit  sa  passiun. 

The  style  of  these  poems  appears  to  be  that  of  the  end  of 
the  twelfth  century,  though  the  manuscript  was  written  at 
a  later  date.  The  abb€  de  la  Rue  supposes  this  writer  to 
be  the  same  Boson  who,  according  to  Tanner,  was  an 
Englishman,  the  nephew  and  secretary  of  pope  Adrian  IV.^ 
made  cardinal  in  1153,  and  who  died  in  1181.  But  the 
name  of  Boson  was  too  oommon  at  this  period  to  allow 
much  force  to  this  supposition.  The  following  account  oi 
part  of  the  conversation  between  St  Margaret  and  the 
demon  will  serve  as  a  specimen  of  Bosuu^s  style:*-* 

*  MS.  Cotton.  M.  ^t  !*• 


SS2  HERMAN.  [Reiffn  Qf 


Et  U  puoele  ait  k  U, 

"  Par  quel  estes  8i  entonr 

A  cristiens  de  fere  dolour  ?  " 

"  De  nature  commpa 

Vers  cristiens  jeo  su  esma. 

Peyse  k  nous  k*il  sernint  dimes 

En  la  joye  ke  ons  perdimes ; 

Pur  $eo  ne  avams  autre  feste, 

Fori  k  cristiens  fere  moleste. 

li  roy  yaylant  e  li  os, 

Salomon,  areit  enclos 

Sans  nombre  de  nostre  oompanye 

En  vn  vessel  tntte  sa  yye ; 

Aprte  sa  mort  les  genz  quiderent 

Trover  tresor,  e  le  debriserent, 

Nos  compaynons  eschaperentf 

E  meynt  homme  pns  greverent.'* 

E  Mergarete  li  ad  demand^, 

**  Ke  est  Yostre  nonn,  vus  bmoH  ?'' 

**  BeltiBoo,"  dit-il,  "  sa  nom^e, 

Ki  meynte  alme  ay  encombr^ ; 

Ki  grever  ne  pose  en  veylantp 

Jeo  les  g^ye  en  dormant, 

E  nom^ement  eels  ke  ne  unt 

De  la  croice  le  siogne  en  front*** 

La  pacele  danc  le  comanda 

En  desert,  e  oonjnra, 

Ke  de  cele  cure  en  avant 

Homme  ne  grevat,  femmsi  na  enfent* 


HERMAN. 

Herman  is  another  Anglo-Norman  religious  poet  who 
appears  to  belong  more  properly  to  the  reign  of  Henry  II. 
His  works  are  found  scattered  in  manuscripts  partly  in 
England  and  partly  in  France,  and  for  the  latter  we  must 
depend  upon  the  description  given  by  the  Abbe  de  la  Rue, 
The  first  is  a  Life  of  Tobit,  written,  as  he  tells  us  himself^ 
at  the  request  of  William  prior  of  Kenilworth^^- 


Bie,  IL}  HERMAN.  8S3 

Car  jeo  tom  toA  tel  choie  dijre» 
Qui  mult  est  de  bone  matire : 
Le  prior  Gmllame  me  prie, 
De  I'igUse  Sainte  Marie 
De  Keneilleworth  en  Ardenne, 
Qui  porte  le  pint  haute  penne 
De  charity  que  nnUe  igliae 
De  tat  le  realme  k  dense, 
Qae  jeo  mis  en  Romans  la  Tie 
De  celtti  qui  ot  nom  Tobie. 

It  is  a  poem  of  about  fourteen  hundred  lines^  com- 
mencing with  an  account  of  the  creation  and  of  the  fall  of 
Adam.  The  author  here  introduces  Truth  and  Jasticej 
Mercy  and  Peace,  in  the  presence  of  God,  the  two  former 
pleading  against  man  as  guilty  of  disobedience,  whilst  the 
other  two  solicit  his  pardon,  which  they  obtain  through 
the  promise  of  a  Redeemer. 

The  second  poem  attributed  to  this  writer  by  the  abb^ 
de  la  Rue  is  entitled  Lesjoies  de  Notre  Dame,  a  very  com- 
mon subject  among  the  medieval  poets.  The  author,  in 
describing  the  birth  of  Christ,  gives  a  curious  account  of 
ancient  Rome,  of  its  temples,  theatres,  palaces,  and  innu- 
merable statues ;  and  he  thanks  God  that  in  our  island,  (of 
which  he  was  evidently  a  native,)  during  the  times  of  pa- 
ganism, they  celebrated  a  festival  on  the  night  between  the 
twenty-fourth  and  twenty-fifth  days  of  December,  as  being 
the  first  of  nights,  which  they  called  Modreniest,  and  which 
he  seems  to  consider  as  prophetically  shadowing  forth  the 
night  of  Christ's  birth. 

The  third  work  described  by  M.  de  la  Rue  is  a  disser- 
tation in  verse  on  the  three  words  smoke,  rain,  and  woman^ 
which,  according  to  Solomon,  drive  a  man  from  his  house ; 
and  it  appears  from  the  poem  that  it  was  composed  at  the 
suggestion  of  Alexander  bishop  of  Lincoln,  who  died  in 
1147. 


S34  BBBMAN.  lIMgn  qf 

Treis  moft  ^ui  me  aoiit  saohftigiMy 
Dont  jea  ma  mi  ftrc^  attigMSt 
Vns  dirai,  le  w  plMt  entandrtp 
£t  TessamUU  «t  boa  i  ^^raadro* 
MntU^  m*a  Te?  eq«e  Aliatndri, 
Qui  a«taikt  €om  la  Mkmaadra 
Aime  le  fen  et  la  chalor, 
Aime  cortaine  et  valor, 
Qae  treix  obotM  el  iiMde  aoat 
Qui  a  home  mult  fraat  mal  foaty 
£t  le  chaoent  de  sa  meson, 
Clii*il  De  piiet  en  nnle  seson 
Maindre  ^  ele  ne  demorer, 
A  force  Ten  covient  aler. 

The  poem,  extending  to  upwards  of  eight  hundred  lineij 
is  a  moralization  on  these  words. 

The  fourth  poem  enumerated  by  M.  de  la  Rue  is  a 
fabulous  history  of  the  preaching  and  miracles  of  the 
Magdalen  at  Marseilles, 

These  four  poems  are  contained  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
Royal  Library  at  Paris,  cited  by  M.  de  la  Rue,  as  No, 
2560 :  they  were  evidently  written  by  an  Englishman ;  but 
we  have  no  means  of  ascertaining  for  what  reasons  they 
are  attributed  to  the  writer  who  is  the  subject  of  the 
present  article.  We  are  equally  ignorant  whether  in  the 
manuscript  they  contain  the  name  of  Herman  or  of  Wil- 
liam, for  M.  de  la  Rue  calls  our  poet  Guillaume  Herman. 

The  only  work  by  Herman  with  which  we  have  met,  is 
a  poem  of  seven  or  eight  thousand  lines  on  the  history  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  written  in  a  different  measure  and  style 
from  the  foregoing  poems,  and  filled  with  medieval  fictions. 
The  versification  of  this  poem  resembles,  in  metre  and  in 
the  repetitions  of  the  same  rhyme,  that  of  the  Sermon  of 
Guiscard  de  Beaulieu  and  of  the  earlier  metrical  romances. 
It  commences  with  the  creation  of  the  world  and  the  fall 
of  Lucifer — 

Comenx  de  sapience  est  la  cremor  de  Dien, 
Ki  fiat  dd  et  terre,  eye  et  feu,  en  teu  fibren. 


fiiCf  Hi]  HSRICAK*  885 

AiigelM  Ut  eC  arclungiles,  nmlt  Im  inifi  tn  bri  ton ; 
Nag  tniyfun  en  escrit  en  Ijitin  et  de  Ebren, 
Partie  trebachA  aval  en  enfemal  fen» 
teaot  tt  YoMreat  fegner  et  loiir  I#  regno  k  Dien. 

And  at  the  end  «re  the  following  lines^— 

Or*  ir«U  IL  td  parler»  Id  ai  ftoi  la  dvu^oA  t 
Jeo  ai  i  non  Hermane»  nen  nbliez  mnn  nam» 
Jeo  Tofly  ma  bele  dame»  qne  atena  ma  raison, 
Preatre  nd  ordlnes,  tia  aera  rai  et  tie  homy 
Ore  iai  ton  oomandi  fin^  ai  k  cb«n90n« 

This  poem  is  found  in  MS.  Harl.  No.  222.  An  abridg- 
ment from  it  occurs  in  MS.  Cotton,  Domit.  A»  xi,  foL  80^^ 
v^,  ending  with  the  two  lines^ — 

Ma  daaae,  ^  ton  bonnr  Ui  a j  $eo  obangemi ) 

Jeo  ay  k  noon  Cbermani i  ne  ublies  mye  mon  noniu 

The  Utter  part  of  Herman's  poem  is  also  found  in  MS. 
Harl,  No.  5234^  where  the  lines  quoted  abore  stand  as 
follows>«-- 

Ore  voil  k  tai  parler  ki  ai  fait  le  cban^on ; 

Jo  ai  k  nam  Tbomaa,  ne  abliez  pas  man  nam ; 

Vna  pri,  ma  bale  amle,  entendex  ma  relson, 

Preitre  aol  ordenA,  tl  aerfii  an!  et  tl  hnm, 

Ore  ai  fbt  ton  oommandement,  flni  ay  ma  chann^nn. 

In  the  Parisian  manuscript  quoted  by  M,  de  la  Rue^  the 
lines  appear  thus,— 

Jeo  ai  i  nom  GoiHame,  n'obliez  |>a8  mon  notti 
Preatre  ani  orden£,  tia  aers  et  tia  hom. 
Ore  ai  fait  ton  comanti  rim^  ai  ma  chanaon. 

It  is  evidentj  therefore,  that  different  persons  copied  out 
portions  of  Herman's  poem,  and  placed  their  own  names 
to  them ;  and  the  Abb^  de  la  Rue  is  altogether  in  error  in 
supposing»  from  the  occurrence  here  of  the  name  Ouil- 
laume,  that  the  author's  real  name  was  GuiUaume 
Herman* 


S36  HERMAN.  [Reign  ijf 

In  a  manuscript  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris,*  we 
find  a  long  French  poetical  narrative  of  some  of  the  prin- 
cipal events  of  Scriptural  history,  mixed  with  a  great 
quantity  of  apochryphal  matter,  written  by  a  poet  of  the 
name  of  Herman:  it  is  entitled  Genesis.  The  writer^ 
who  was  a  priest,  tells  us  that  on  a  Christmas  day  he  had 
seized  a  brand  to  beat  one  of  his  clerks,  and,  not  per- 
ceiving that  it  was  hot,  burnt  his  own  hand.  The  wound 
festered,  and  he  had  nearly  lost  all  hope  of  recovery, 
when  he  dreamt  that  the  Virgin  appeared  to  him  and 
promised  an  immediate  cure,  if  he  would  undertake  to 
translate  into  French  verse  the  portions  of  Scripture 
which  she  pointed  out  to  him.  He  said  that  he  had 
never  tried  the  craft  of  poetry,  but  she  urged  him  to  make 
the  attempt  and  promised  him  her  assistance.  Herman 
'soon  afterwards  recovered  his  health,  and  in  gratitude  he 
wrote  the  poem  of  which  we  are  speaking.  In  this  poem 
Herman  tells  us  that  he  was  a  priest,  and  that  he  was^a 
native  of  Valenciennes — 

Signer,  or  escoUs,  entendds  ma  raison : 

Je  ne  tos  di  pas  fable,  ne  ne  tos  di  cannon : 

Clers  sni,  povres  de  sens,  si  sui  moult  poTres  hon, 

N68  sni  de  Valencienes,  Herman  m*aplele  on. 

De  persone  Dez  care  ne  prend  8*e8t  grande  ou  non ; 

On  a  aoyent  grant  aise  en  petite  maison ; 

De  petite  fontaine  tot  aon  saol  boit-on. 

Tot  oe  di-je  por  voir,  je  auli  moult  petit  hon, 

Canones  sni  et  prestre  par  grant  election. 

If  this  be  the  same  Herman  who  wrote  the  poems 
described  above,  it  is  probable  that  he  quitted  his  native 
country  to  settle  in  England  or  Normandy,  for  it  is  to  be 
observed  that  most  of  his  poems  are  found  in  manuscripts 
written  in  our  island.    The  writer  of  the  article  on  Herman 

»  MS.  Bibl.  Reg.  Paris,  No.  7534. 


Mid,']  H8RMAN.  337 

in  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de  France^*  who  describes  this 
poem^  thinks  that  its  author  lived  in  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury^ and  it  is  not  improbable  that  there  were  more  than 
one  poet  of  the  name.  In  a  manuscript  of  the  Genesis> 
which  was  in  the  possession  of  M.  Leroux  de  Lincy^  the 
scribe  has  inserted  in  the  middle  of  the  poem  a  remarkably 
wild  and  incoherent  poetical  legend^  in  a  different  measure 
of  verse^  relating  to  the  Virgin^s  parentage^t  but  there 
appears  no  good  reason  for  attributing  it  to  the  same 
writer. 

Saint  Palaye^  as  cited  in  the  Histoire  Litteraire  de 
France^  gives  a  list  of  several  other  works  attributed  to 
Herman^  but  it  does  not  appear  on  what  grounds.  The 
abb^  de  la  Rue  attributes  also  to  Herman^  without  stating 
any  reasons  for  this  appropriation,  a  poem  on  the  Sibyls, 
commencing  with  the  lines, — 

n  Airent  dis  Sibiles, 
Gentils  dames  nobiles, 
Ki  orent  en  lor  vie 
Eiprit  de  prophetic, 
£t  Buncioieiit  k  la  gent 
De  leur  avenement. 

And  he  says  that  it  is  stated  in  this  poem  that  the  em- 
press Matilda,  who  had  recommended  the  subject  to  the 
author,  died  during  the  time  he  was  occupied  in  composing 
itj(  which  would  fix  it  to  the  year  1167*  But  unfor^ 
tunately  little  dependence  can  be  placed  on  the  state- 
ments of  M.  de  la  Rue,  unless  they  have  been  compared 
with  the  sources  from  which  they  are  said  to  be  derived. 

*  Hist*  Lit.  de  France,  torn,  xviii.  p.  830. 

t  An  abstract  of  this  legend  will  be  found  in  the  Hist.  Lit*  as  jiut  quoted, 
and  in  M.  Leronz  de  Lincy's  Livre  des  L^gendes,  p.  24. 


VOL.  II. 


8S8  BUGH^  me  rovland.  [Rmf^  ^f 


HUGH  DE  RUTLAND. 

AoecNNliiig  to  M.  de  U  Rik^  Hugh  de  Butlaiui  «IwiAk  tt 
CradenhiU  in  ComwaiL  He  appeiurs  to  ihAve  liFed  to^ 
wArds  tbe  end  <rf  the  tvelftb  eemtury,  for^  in  eiLcunng  his 
iiwn  fictions  by  cfaaigyig  Welter  Mi^>ee  with  tbe  uiae 
fault,  he  speaks  of  the  latter  as  his  contemporary,  so  tbat 
be  muet  have  written  soon  after  Mapes  had  poblisbed  the 
vomaoeet  of  the  Bound  Table. 

Ne  mettes  mie  toot  sur  md, 
8wl  A0  lai  fM  it  mtnllr  Vmi, 
W«U«r  H«p  «iet  bs«ii  m  part. 
En  mendre  afaire  mut  «\iTeiit 
XJn  bien  rainable  hom  mesprent ; 
NeparqvaDi,  i  U  mti»  «vtovto, 
Ne  quif  pat  ke  aiU  de  w  wente. 

Hugh  de  Rutland  plapea  tbe  ecene  of  his  stories  in 
Italy,  and  introduces  eome  of  the  celebrated  names  of 
ancient  fable  under  a  very  strange  medieval  garb.  His 
best  known  poem  is  the  Romanee  of  ipomedon^  pre* 
sffirved  In  the  British  Museum  (MS.  Cotton.  Vespas.  A« 
Tir.  fol.  S75  r^,  and  extending  to  upwards  of  ten  thon- 
sand  lines.*  Like  the  other  writers  of  t^e  same  class,  Hugh 
prstends  that  his  book  is  trsnslated  froqi  the  Latin,— 

Moult  me  menrail  de  oee  clere  lagea 
Ky  enteadeot  piiieiin  iaagagee, 

K*U  ont  lesi^  oeste  estorie, 
Ke  nos  ne  out  en  memorie. 
Ne  di  pas  q*il  bien  ne  dit, 
CU  qi  en  Latin  Tad  deicHt; 


*  An  early  English  metrical  version  of  this  romance  is  printed  in  Webei's 
Metrieal  RomanceSi  toI.  ii.  p.  281. 


Ke*  t.}  BUOH*  Ml   Hm'LAND.  M9 

Mis  plus  i  «d  Ml  ke  feHres, 
Si  li  lAttn  s'Mt  imMBfcMf 
Gairet  b*1  emt 
Por  ^ea-Tofl  Are  ea 

Si  enteodrwkt  derc  Mt  lai. 
Hoe  de  HoMlande  bus  dit, 
Kf  «HlMtosifi  sMidiiHfW 
Xf  d«  MJA  v«l  BamMs  Ibh*» 
Ne  loi  delt  I'em  &  mtl  retif  re 
S^fl  m  po€t  tu  dee  mIv  gaHer» 
00  Men  iKt  I»  iMt  Iprner. 

The  andior'f  ntina  ipytri  9gt»  At  ih«  esd  of  tbt 

poem : — 

Ceste  estoire  tim  ai  desdoie, 
Hue  s'en  test  e  se  repose» 
Que  de  Rotelende  dit, 
B  Tus  rnustre  per  cest  eserit, 
Ke  unkes  pie  eel  lene  m  fat  mes, 
Ne  cheraler  ne  derc  lettres, 
Ki  del  tet  eeni  faire  san  h$m 
Amest  cam  fist  Ipomedon. 

Mtffi^f  ibJtt  tti  furt  Btffnunt 
Par  «est  Hae  de  RoteUnde 
De  par  le  Dea  de  amor  enmuM, 
D4»  «•  Mte  le«lM»t  «Mr 
Shu  trictoie  •  sens  ^«ser»  dtc 

IpMisdo0»  Aooording  to  tlbe  romanos,  was  tbs  soa  of 
Hennogmefl^  kaig  of  ApuUa:  he  beoomet  enainoiijred  of 
tbe  daugbtar  of  the  duke  ot  Calabria»  and  after  many  cii^ 
Tabtooa  adventuvea  wins  ber  for  bia  wife.  After  tbe  pub» 
licatioo  of  this  romaAee,  Hugh  de  RuUaod  composed  e 
seeondf  entitled  tbe  romanee  of  firodieailaiM»,  wbicb  forma 
a  eoBtiniaatiOo  of  tbe  praoeding*  Tbe  author  tdla  na»  that 
be  tboai^t  it  sbamefttl  to  remain  idle,  aad  be  theielovabad 
no  sooner  completed  his  first  work  tfaan  be  befui  tbe  new 
one — 

Hoe  de  BMUoAe  dit, 
Qal  traiter  revolt  ecet  eicrit ; 
CU  4«!  raJtoB  et  bien  eotent^ 
Ke  doit  reposer  longaemeiit, 

Z  2 


340  THOMAS.  [JSejyn  of 

Aim  jon  et  noU  et  tax  temi 
Set  ovres  montrer  et  son  leni ; 
Kar  por  repos  ne  por  pareice 
Ne  TcndFa  jji  horn  2l  haltesce. 

Ipomedon  has  two  sons^  Danaus  and  Prothesilaus^  who 
share  his  estates  after  his  death;  but  the  latter  is  deprived 
of  his  portion  by  his  brother.  The  marvellous  adventures 
of  Prothesilaus,  before  he  recovers  his  heritage^  form  the 
subject  of  this  second  romance^  of  which  a  manuscript  is 
jpreserved  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris^  and  which^  ac- 
cording to  M.  de  la  Rue^  extends  to  nearly  eleven  thou- 
sand lines. 


THOMAS. 

Another  writer  of  Romances  of  this  age  is  known  only 
by  the  name  of  Thomas,  and  has  been  the  object  of  con- 
siderable discussion.  We  are  totally  ignorant  of  his  his- 
tory, but  he  was  the. author  of  two  of  the  most  remarkable 
monimients  of  our  earlier  literature^  the  romance  of  Horn 
and  that  of  Tristan.  The  most  perfect  copy  of  the 
romance  of  Horn  is  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
public  library  of  the  University  of  Cambridge  (Pf.  6.  17), 
which  however  unfortunately  wants  a  leaf  or  two  both  at 
the  beginning  and  at  the  end.  The  two  other  manuscripts 
are  mere  fragments^  one  in  the  Harleian  Library  (No. 
527)>  which  contains  the  conclusion,  the  other  in  the  Col- 
lection of  the  late  Mr.  Douce,  now  in  the  Bodleian  library 
at  Oxford.  The  author's  name  is  found  in  the  following 
lines  in  the  body  of  the  poem, — 

Seignun,  oiavez  le  yeni  del  parchemini 
Cam  le  ben  Aalnf  est  yeDnz  &  la  fin ; 
Mestre  Thomas  ne  toU  qo*il  seit  mis  \,  declin, 
K'il  ne  die  de  Horn  le  vaiUant  orphelin. 


Tlic.L]  THOMAS.  341 

and  again  at  tlie  conclusion^ — 

Tomas  n'en  dirrat  plus :  in  auiem  chanterat. 

The  writer  of  the  French  romance  of  King  Waldef,  now  in 
the  library  of  Sir  Thomas  Fhillipps^  composed  in  the 
thirteenth  century^  distinctly  states  that  the  Romance  of 
Horn  had  been  translated  from  an  English  original^  which 
was  previously  suspected  from  several  circumstances  con- 
nected with  it.  A  short  romance  of  Hom^  in  English 
verse^  certainly  as  old  as  the  thirteenth  century,  is  stiU 
preserved  in  three  manuscripts,  and  was  printed  from  one 
of  them  by  Ritson.  It  is  not  impossible  that  this,  in  an 
older  form,  may  have  been  the  groundwork  of  Thomases 
Anglo-Norman  poem.  The  story  is  well  known  by  this 
EngUsh  version,  ^d  by  a  somewhat  more  modem  one 
preserved  in  the  celebrated  Auchinlech  MS.  The  Anglo- 
Norman  romance  of  Horn  is  written  in  the  same  long 
lines,  with  a  continuance  of  the  same  rhymes,  which  dis- 
tinguish many  of  the  early  metrical  romances.*  The 
account  given  by  Horn  of  his  own  parentage,  extracted 
from  the  Cambridge  MS.,  will  serve  as  a  specimen. 

Mia  pares  ftid  una  ban,  Taiflant  horn  dnrementf 
Aalnf  ad  k  nvaa,  ai  ma  geate  ne  ment ; 
En  Suddene  fd  nez,  si  la  teintlongement, 
ReU  Silanf  le  trova,  si  1'  norrit  bonement. 
Aprda  fa  konea,  par  Dea  oomandement, 
Qu'il  iert  de  geate  real  deacenda  veirement. 
Newu  fu  Baderonfi  de  sa  fille  al'cors  gent, 
Ooldebnrc  ont  k  nnm  i  sun  baptismement. 
Ne  sai  ai  one  oistes  de  reis  td  parlement ; 
Pnu  e  hard!  forent,  de  bon  contenement, 
Dea  anmea  ait  merd  li  reis  omnipotent. 

Qaant  ^oe  fad  konen  ke  Aalof  fdd  Men  a^, 
Qa*il  la  nefs  fiaderoof  le  bon  e  Talos^^ 
Ki  iert  sor  Aiemaans  enperere  dam^, 


*  An  analyais  of  this  romance  (from  the  Cambridge  MS.)  by  the  writer  of 
the  preaent  Tolamey  will  be  foond  in  the  Foreign  Qoarterly  ReTiew,  toL  zri. 
pp.  133^141» 


Dune  U  ad  reii  Silavi  par  graal  amar  doft^ 
Use  lUle  qa*il  out,  le  via  out  colnri, 
B  «vve  B  i«M  a^a  ail  i«a  f«ga*, 
Diaeat  dwat  ioe  ma  di  aai  joa  joiaa  a  lad. 

Of  tfa«  rooaaAce  of  Tristm^  by  Tbomas^a few  £nigmeAto 
only  are  pfcsan^ed*  One  of  dieae,  contained  in  a  mami- 
serift  beloAgMAg  to  Mr.  Douce,  and  printed  in  M«  Michelle 
CoUectio%  Iiad  already  f  vumiaLed  the  name  of  the  anthov, 
wko  jitit  befcNTe  refers  to  a  atiU  older  anthority^  wbon  he 


Qnaal  ot  afoU  Kahfrdia 
Par  cast  plaie  e  par  caat  mai, 
ABT6UMI  inatran  vrwrerBai 
la  lqiM«H«  pw  YMlt. 
Thosaaa  1^0  granter  ma  Tolt* 
fi  ai  Tolt  par  raiann  nmatrar 
daa  if9  aa  pee  p«  eataer*     . 

XjialaayVoLtf^f.  41. 

Anotlter  fragment  of  Thomas'e  t^tan,  which  hae  been 
printed  from  a  manuecript  in  a  piirale  eoHection  hnt  hae 
not  yet  been  pnblished,  contains  the  oondnsion  of  die 
poem }  Hionias  there  apeaks  of  himself  at  the  author,  and 
dedicatee  his  poem  to  all  true  loters^  for  irboae  comfort  and 
consolation  he  says  tiial  it  was  composed. 

Tamaa  ftiie  <^I  aan  ascrli : 
A  ttts  amaaa  aalus  1  dit,  ite. 

The  Tristan  of  Thomas  appears  to  hare  been  the  ground* 
work  of  the  greater  part  of  what  was  written  upon  this 
hero  in  subsecjpMni  tinMi.  It  ia  most  probable  that  the 
author  was  the  Thomas  ton  Britanie^  from  whose  French 
poem  Godfrey  of  Straaburg,  iu  the  thirteenth  century, 
professes  to  have  translated  die  romance  of  Tristan  into 
German  verse.*  An  English  metrical  translation  was 
made  about  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  or  beginning  of  the 

*  See  for  fbvllMr  Mmarka  od  tUa  tabjaot  the  notaa  to  tlia  laat  aditioa  of 
Warton'a  Hiatory  o^En^liih  Poetry  (1840),  toI.  i,  pp.95-*US» 


tUe^  /.}  THOMAS.  S4S 


fottrteenlih  eentary^  tlie  writer  of  wbidi  also  refers  to 
TbomM  as  lus  origiiiel  authority^  but  he  baa  eridantly 
CsUen  into  the  error  of  supposing  the  Thomas  of  the  French 
romance  to  have  been  Thomas  of  Ercildoune,  a  name 
which  happened  to  be  then  popular  in  certain  metrical 
prophecies  relating  chiefly  to  the  Scottish  wars. 

I  wu  at  Ertheldouii, 

With  Tomaa  spak  j  than ; 
Ther  herd  y  rede  in  roane, 

Who  Tristrem  gat  and  bare, 
Who-was  king  with  cronn, 

And  who  him  fosterd  jare. 
And  who  was  bold  baroun 

Aa  thair  eldera  ware 
In  |ere> 
Tomaa  teQea  in  tonn 

TUt  anreaftonn  at  thai  war». 

This  English  romance  is  preserved  in  the  Audrinlech  MS. 
at  EdSnburgh,  and  was  pubKshed  (not  rery  accurately)  by 
Sir  Walter  Scott^  who  had  formed  some  rery  wrong  notions 
as  to  its  history. 

The  romance  of  Tristan  by  Thomas^  which  does  not 
appear  to  have  been  of  great  extent^  is  written  in  a  dif- 
ferent measure  and  style  from  the  romance  of  Hom^  as  will 
be  seen  by  the  folloiiring  extract  descriptiTC  of  the  city  of 
London  in  the  twelfth  century. 

Lnndrea  est  mnlt  riche  dt^, 
Melinr  n*ad  en  cHstieiit^y 
Flos  iraQhuita,  ne  laeli  aaiit^ 
Mels  gaoamie  de  gent  preisfe* 
Mnlt  aiment  largesce  e  honnr, 
Conteinent  se!  par  grant  baldur* 
La  recoYrer  eat  de  Eng&eterre, 
Ayant  dlloc  ne  Testnet  qnerre, 
Al  p^  del  mnr  U  cnrt  Tamisoi 
Fsr  \k  Tent  la  marehaadise 
De  tntea  lea  [terres]  tpi  svnt, 
U  marcheant  cristien  Tvnt. 
li  hwae  i  sont  de  grant  engini 


344  PHILIP  DE  REIMES.  [Seiffn  o/ 

M.  de  la  Rue  ascribes  to  this  trouvere  a  poem  on  the  death 
of  the  Virgin  Mary,  which  however  is  notliing  more  than 
the  poem  on  that  subject  by  Herman,  with  the  name  of 
Thomas  attached  to  it* 

Edition, 

The  Poetical  Romancea  of  Tristan,  in  French,  in  Anglo-Norman,  and 
in  Greek,  composed  in  the  zii.  and  xiii.  centuries,  edited  by  Francisque 
Michel.    London,  1835,  2  vols.  12mo. 


PHILIP  DE  REIMES. 

The  abb^  de  la  Rue  supposes  this  trouvere  to  have  been 
of  one  of  the  English  families  known  by  the  name  of  de 
Reitnes,  de  Raimes,  or  de  Rames  {de  RamisJ,  who  had 
extensive  possessions  in  Essex,  Su£folk,  and  Norfolk  in 
the  twelfth  century,  but  we  have  no  authentic  informa- 
tion to  enable  us  to  identify  him.  He  is  the  author  of 
two  metrical  romances,  the  scene  of  one  of  which  is  lud 
in  Scotland,  that  of  the  other  in  England.  The  first  of 
these  is  entitled  la  Manekine ;  its  subject  is  a  story  very 
popular  in  different  forms  during  the  Middle  Ages.  The 
heroine  is  the  daughter  of  a  king  of  Hungary;  being  con- 
demned unjustly  to  be  burnt,  she  is  saved  by  the  steward, 
who,  placing  the  damsel  in  a  boat  with  a  sufficient  supply 
of  provisions,  commits  her  to  the  mercy  of  the  sea.  She 
is  carried  by  the  waves  to  Scotland,  the  king  of  which 
country  marries  her.  But  she  there  becomes  an  object  of 
hatred  to  her  mother-in-law,  and  when,  during  the  absence 
of  the  king,  she  is  confined  and  letters  are  written  to  him 
announcing  her  safe  delivery  of  a  son,  the  queen-mother 

*  See  before,  p.  335  of  the  preaent  rolnme. 


Ric.  L]  PHILIP  DE  BEIHES.  345 

substitutes  others^  by  means  of  which  the  young  queen  is 
adjudged  to  be  burnt.  The  steward  of  Scotland  also  saves 
her,  and  she  is  again  committed  in  a  boat  to  the  waves. 
The  king,  on  his  return^  discovers  the  treason  of  his  mo- 
ther and  the  innocence  of  his  wife^  wanders  seven  years  in 
search  of  the  latter,  and  at  length  discovers  her  at  Rome, 
where  her  father  also  unexpectedly  arrives,  and  the  hh 
mance  ends  in  a  general  reconciliation. 

In  the  introduction  to  this  romance^  Philip  speaks  with 
diffidence  of  his  own  powers  of  versification^  and  uses  the 
term  leonime,  which  has  very  much  puzzled  the  writers  on 
this  subject,  and  of  which  the  meaning  is  not  clear» 

Et  ae  je  ne  sui  leonime, 
Merreillier  ne  8'en  doit  mie  ; 
Car  molt  petit  sal  de  dergie, 
Ne  onqaes  nuds  rime  ne  fie ; 
MaiB  ore  m'en  soi  entremis 
Poar  9011  que  rraie  est  la  matere 
Dont  je  Toel  ceste  rime  fere, 
N'il  n'est  mie  drois  c'on  ae  taiae 
De  ramembrer  ooae  qui  plaiae» 

It  would  appear  by  this  that  the  Roman  de  la  Manekine 
was  our  author's  first  metrical  composition.  He  shows 
himself  however  in  this  poem  superior  to  many  of  the 
trouv^res  who  were  his  contemporaries,  and  there  are  some 
touches  of  good  poetry  in  his  descriptions.  He  thus  de<« 
scribes  the  month  of  May : — 

Ce  ftt  en  la  douce  aaiaon, 
Que  U  rouaaignol  ont  raiaon 
De  chanter  pour  le  tana  joli, 
Que  11  pr^  sont  vert  et  flouri, 
Et  11  vergi^  cargi6  de  fruit ; 
Que  la  bele  rose  eat  en  bruit, 
Dont  lea  damea  font  lea  capiaus, 
Dont  li  amant  font  leur  aviaua ; 
Que  I'erbe  vert  eat  revenue. 
Qui  par  la  froidure  eat  perdue : 
Caacuna  oiaiaua  en  aon  latin 
Cante  dovcement  au  matixi 


Pour  la  MifOB  qii  est  noveto. 
Toute  rieni  adont  te  rerete, 
v|v0  M  jon  JuwiMnr  vniwiw 
li  «bmI  Iti  iaawei  «•^▼•nti 
Qui  en  yrcr  erent  espanei. 
Ot  keurent  karoler  eet  gtfeei» 

▲TOec  biflf  onfc  Robeson, 
£t  Colinet  et  Jelianet ; 
Puv  r  en  ^ont  n  bov  M  ini^et. 
Capianp  ImI'40  MMBito  Bsuera, 
Aiffiia  qiie  reviegnent  aniere. 
Belei  flont  lea  naia  et  li  jour 
A  ein»  ^  SMfaititiieDt  mmt. 


Philip's  otiier  Romance^  that  of  Blonde  of  Oxford  tnd 
John  of  Dammartifty  is  written  in  the  same  style^  and  is 
peculiarly  interesting  as  a  pietitre  of  tNOtmial  manners  in 
England  in  the  twelfth  century.  John  is  a  youth  who 
leaves  his  father's  household  and  hia  natire  country,  to 
seek  his  fortune.  He  afiives  in  England,  and  enters  the 
service  of  the  earl  of  Oxford,  of  whose  daughter  Blonde 
he  becomes  enamoured*  A  considerable  portion  of  the 
poem  is  occupied  with  their  love  adventures,  and  the 
dMtcnteifs  into  wfaidi  they  are  led  in  their  endeavour»  to 
tfonceal  Aem*  At  length  the  earl  of  Oxford  affiances  Us 
daughter  to  the  eari  of  Olooeester,  to  escape  wUdi  inateh 
idle  leaves  koae  with  ber  kver,  and  they  fly  to  France. 
Thty  ate  vigorously  poi s«ied  by  the  earl  of  Oloueester» 
but,  after  various  adventures^  a  general  recoBoiliatiofl.  is 
effected  by  the  interference  of  the  French  monarch,  and 
Blonde  is  married  to  J<An,  who  is  aiade  count  of  Dam* 
martin.  These  two  romances  are  preserved  in  a  manu- 
script in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris. 

Koman  de  la  Manekine,  par  Philippe  de  Reimeti  •  . .  public  par  Pran- 
djqne  MicheL    Imprira^  A  Paris  pour  le  Bannatyne  Club,   mdcccxl.  4to. 

The  Romance  of  Blonde  of  Oxford  and  Jehan  of  Dammartin,  by  Philippe 
de  Reimes,  edited  by  Le  Rqux  do  Lincy,  London :  printed  for  the  Camdoi 
Society,  4Co. 


HtC  /•]  HAVMQU  AMU  FSTft»  BB  OJtAON.  547 


MAURICE  AND  P£T£R  DE  CRAON. 
RKNAUD  D£  HOILANDfi. 


Among  the  song-writen  of  tilif  period  we  find  two 
Englishmen,  father  and  son,  named  Maurice  and  Peter  de 
Craon,  of  a  family  which  came  into  our  iahod  with  William 
the  Conqueror^  «d  ww  setded  in  LineoliHliire.  Maurice 
de  Craon,  who  had  considerable  estates  in  the  county  of 
Surrey,  seems  to  bare  been  in  fisTour  at  the  court  of 
Henry  IL^  who  made  him  in  1174  goremor  of  Aneems ; 
he  appears  the  same  year  as  one  of  the  witnesses  la  Ihi 
act  of  pacification  between  the  king  and  his  children^  and 
in  ll77i  he  was  appointed  with  the  bishope  of  Maa#« 
Naate%  and  Perigueux,  to  judge  any  disputes  which 
might  arise  oat  of  the  treaty  between  Henry  II.  and  king 
Louis  of  France.  He  died  in  1216,  and  his  son  Peter  bad 
thtti  livery  oi  the  estates  in  Surrey.* 

A  manuscript  ki  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris  oontuns 
two  iKmgs  by  Maurice  and  Peter  de  Craon,  The  first 
stanca  of  the  song  by  Maurice  de  Craon  will  glre  the  best 
aotien  of  its  style  of  c<Hnpositioo. 

Alsatfsai  M  im  lemise 

Del  tans  noavelt 
Que  naiflt  la  flours  en  Vespinei 

Bt  cnit  oiSu 
Cnsntent  pmal  n  usawne 

Sen  e€  Del| 
I/Oiit  ne  fmmt  smottrt  fliie 

Xy  «B  trei  doMT  ttolf 
Qosr  Je  oe  peni  k  HeDS  d 
Ven  U  ft  mei  «wn  ■'soUae. 

*  Thete  pArticnlars  were  collected  by  the  sbb4  de  U  Ras* 


348  RENAUB  DE  HOILAND,  IRetfffl  of 

In  the  first  stanza  of  the  song  attributed  to  Peter  de 
Craon^  he  speaks  of  having  derived  the  faculty  and  privi- 
lege of  singing  of  love  from  his  ancestors,  as  though  his 
father  and  himself  were  not  the  only  poets  of  the  family: — 

Fine  amoun  daimme  en  moi  par  hiretage 
Droit :  a'eat  raisona,  quar  bien  et  loianment 
L*oiit  aenri  de  Creon»  lor  aage, 
Li  bon  aeignear,  qui  tindrent  ligament 
Pria  et  Talour  et  tout  enaeignement, 
S'en  chanterent,  et  je  tout  enaement 
VueiU  que  de  chant  et  d'amour  lor  letraie, 
Et  del  aeurplux  me  met  en  aa  manaie 
De  cuer,  decora,  et  d'amour  et  de  vie, 
Com  i  ma  douce  droite  aeignourie. 

A  manuscript  in  the  Vatican  also  contains  songs  of 
Maurice  de  Craon,*  but  we  do  not  know  how  many. 
Among  them  is  a  copy  of  the  song  last  quoted,  which  is 
there  attributed  to  Maurice  and  not  to  Peter. 

The  above  specimens  wiU  give  a  notion  of  the  style  of 
the  numerous  song-writers  of  this  age«  Most  of  them 
were  natives  of  France,  and  appear  to  have  had  no  intimate 
connection  with  this  country;  but  a  song  recently  disco- 
vered among  some  old  documents  of  a  totally  different 
nature,t  has  made  us  acquainted  with  the  name  of  Re- 
NAUD  DE  HoiLANDE,  probably  a  native  of  that  district  of 
Lincolnshire,  who  perhaps  lived  at  the  end  of  the  twelfth 
century.  The  following  is  the  first  stanza  of  the  song 
attributed  to  this  writer. 

Si  toat  c*amia  entant  a  ben  amer, 

Prant  garde  amonra,  ai  doit  merchi  «Yoir, 

Qui  ae  garde  pora  ik  celi  donner 

Qpi  aenri  I'a  ai  qu'il  i  doit  paroir. 
Per  <{0U  ai-jon  tel  Yoloir 

*  See  Keller*8  Romyarti  p.  J259»  'where  the  aong  alluded  to  ia  printed 
at  length  from  the  Vatican  MS. 

t  Thia  aong  is  printed  in  the  Anecdota  literariai  by  the  writer  of  the 
present  yolnme,  p.  88i 


BiC^  L}  BIHON  J>n  nEflNB.  349 

Que  je  ne  yoel  mis 

Que  ma  dame  entt  m*amie 

Est6  lors  que  je  leri 

Pour  autre  tour,  s'estre  pooit  enii. 

BditioH. 

Chaniona  de  Maurice  et  de  Pierre  de  Craoui  poetei  Anglo-Normandi  du 
zii*  nicle,  public    .    •    par  G.  S.  Xrebutieo.  Caen,  1843.  Square  12">». 


SIMON  DU  FRESNE. 

We  only  know  the  age  of  this  poet  from  the  circum- 
stance of  his  having  been  the  friend  of  Giraldus  Cam* 
brensis,  to  whom  he  addressed  some  Latin  epigrams.  He 
is  stated  to  have  been  a  canon  of  Hereford  cathedral. 
His  name  is  attached  in  a  rather  singular  manner  to  a 
French  metrical  abridgment  of  one  of  the  most  popular 
books  of  the  middle  ages^  the  treatise  De  Consolatione  of 
Boethius^  found  in  a  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum.^ 
At  the  conclusion  it  is  stated^ — 

Idl  ke  cete  Romanse  fit, 
Sun  noun  en  cete  Romanse  mist, 
Mia  eat  en  Tint  primere  Ten» 
Ceo  poet  ver  ke  est  clera. 

And  accordingly  the  initial  letters  of  the  first  twenty 
lines  (allowing  for  what  appear  to  be  misreadings  of  the 
scribe)  make  the  words^  Simun  du  Fresne  me^st,  ^^  Simon 
du  Fresne  made  me  i'^ — 

iS'olaa  dune  et  tolt  ire 
/cest  Romaniei  ke  od  lire 
JfcTult  porte  en  sei  grant  deport, 
Un  eicriat  eat  de  grant  confort 
JVe  deit  home  oonustre  ben 
De  Payer  pur  perdre  ren, 

*  MS.  Reg,  fiOB.  XIT.  fol.  68,  y. 


SSO  ntu<m  Dtr  tssticv.  [^Mf*  ^ 

De  I'altre  part  pitr  rea  ke  tcit 
Plni  Joivt  ettn  b6  dnL 
i^ls  eft  ke  p«r  «d  «rolr 
Ani  wft  Joier  v  4otefr> 
An  p<H  de  him  Tit  et  rent, 
Li  sages  homme  plet  ne  tent. 
ir«at  «Mir  foil  dwee  tvine, 
X  he  «!feir  «itvr  at  pclM, 
Afnit  le  qvert  od  grant  dolur, 
J?  tnt  le  part  a  chef  de  tur. 
F^U  est  ke  aveir  desire, 
Jk  ne  sem  sans  martjre, 
Am  <»a  ••  aem  «ffi, 
Tknt  li  com  penaer  sore. 

A  more  coned  manuscript  is  preserved  in  the  collection  of 
Mr.  Douce  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  The  poem  is  there 
entitled  the  Romance  of  Dame  Fortune.  M.  de  la  Bue 
appears  to  tis  to  have  judged  somewhat  too  partially  of 
the  style  of  this  poenb 

Simon  da  Fresne  alao  wrote  epigrama  and  short  poema 
in  Lfttinf  a  few  of  which  are  preserved  in  manuscripts  at 
Lambeth  palace  and  in  the  library  of  Corpus  Cbriiti 
College,  Cambridge.  They  appear  to  have  been  mostly 
written  in  defen^^  of  Giraldua  Cambrensis,  against  the 
attacks  of  some  of  Us  poetjeal  detmelors,  such  as  Adam 
of  Dore.*  An  epigram  by  Simon  du  Fresne,  add^ressed 
to  Giraldus,  is  preserved  in  MS.  Cotton.  Vkel.  E.  v.,  In 
wMch  he  spedcs  of  Ginddus  as  not  lunrtng  yet  been 
made  a  bishop,  which  justifies  us  in  plaeing  this  writer 
in  the  reign  of  Richard  L 

•  See  Tanner,  who  follows  Leland  in  entering  this  writer  rather  absurdly 
nnder  the  name  of  Simon  /Uh$,    In  Latin  his  Prea«h  name  is  translated  D» 


Bk.  L]  Ht^nhLvn  wmaxm.  ^51 


NIGELLUS  WIB£KEB. 

Nigellu«  Wiseker,  as  tbii  writer  i$  feMnlly  called,* 
held  the  office  of  pneeentor  in  the  ehurefa  of  Canterbury, 
and  was  one  of  the  more  remarkable  Utenuy  men  of  the 
end  of  the  twelfth  eentarjr#  AltboHg^  a  mmk  himself  he 
seems  to  have  been  opposed  to  the  corruptions  which 
characterized  the  monastic  ordersj  and  which  had  crept 
into  every  part  of  the  dluireii.  He  «as  tli^intiflnate  friend 
of  William  de  Longcbamp  bishop  of  Ely»  so  celebrated  in 
the  history  of  the  reign  of  Richard  h,  whose  cbiu:mcter  ap- 
pears to  have  been  blackened  by  the  monkish  historians 
because  he  was  hostile  to  their  orden  The  writings  of 
NigeUus  enjoyed  a  very  extensive  popularity  in  subse- 
quent timesy  as  we  may  judg^  by  the  numeicns  mann* 
scripts  of  them  still  existing* 

The  earliest  productions  of  Nigellus  now  known  a^ppear 
to  be  some  short  pieces  of  Latin  rtm  pivserved  at 
the  beginning  of  a  manuscript  in  the  Cottonian  Library 
(MS.  Cotton.  Yespas.  D.  xix.)  The  first  of  these  com- 
mences with  a  Csncifol  play  on  has  own  name  and  on  that  of 
Honorius  prior  of  Canterbury,  «nd  must  therefore  have 
been  written  between  1186,  when  he  was  elected  to  that 
office^  and  1189»  when  be  died  of  the  plague  at  Rome. 

la  guMim^iie  maam  psrmMrU  Ifte  libeljai* 
Dicat,  in  sterna  raqnieicat  pac0  NJ|0bUii«. 
Si  qnid  in  hoc  modioo  quod  te  JnTct  Mae  UMIo 
Contigerit,  dtcas,  lit  loz  Ktern»  NifiUp^ 

*  No  early  authority  it  adduced  for  the  inmame  of  Wlreker,  to  ftr  ai 
we  are  aware.  JacobiitThomaUas  pnbliahed  a  Dieputatio  de  Nifello  Wirc- 
keroi  lips.  1679.    See  Tanner. 


352  KIQBUUS  WIRBKEB.  [ReiffH  o/ 

HnjuB  qnuqnii  em  conspeetor  forte  libelU, 
Die  ita,  Christe  Jhesu  mUeri  miserere  Nigelli. 
Factorij  memor  esto  tni  tict  panre  libelle» 
Siepiiu  et  dices»  ViTas  sine  fine,  Nigelle. 
EcdesiflB  Christi  nobilitatis,  Hooori» 
Non  onus  es,  sed  honos,  decns  et  decor,  aptus  honor! ; 
Jure  tibi  quod  babes  dat  honor  de  nomine  nomen, 
Nomen  honoris  habes,  cum  nomine  nominis  omen. 
Nomen  honoris  habes,  quo  debes  jure  Tocari» 
Qao  toa  fscta  magis  qnam  fata  dedere  bean» 
Nomen  honoris  habes,  sed  factis  nomen  honoras» 
Nominis  inteipres  de  nomine  fiusta  eoloras ; 
Dumqoe  stndes  fieri  popnli  qnod  diceris  ore. 
Facta  decent  qnis  es,  quantos,  qnam  dignns  honore. 
Non  vacat  hoc  igitnr  qnod  Honorius  ipse  Tocaris, 
Bz  re  nomen  habesi  quod  diceris  esse  proberis. 

In  another  of  these  short  pieces^  Nigellus  speaks  of  the 
death  of  Honorius.  They  are  followed  by  a  longer  poem^ 
in  good  Latin  elegiacs^  on  the  miracles  of  the  Virgin^ 
which  are  perhaps  to  be  attributed  to  the  same  author. 

Two  other  manuscripts  in  the  Cottonian  Library,  Julius 
A.  VII.  (fol.  58,  v«,)  and  Cleopatra  B.  iii.  (fol.  112,  r<>,) 
contain  copies  of  a  poem  by  the  same  Nigellus,  which 
commences  with  the  following  description  of  Spring,  no 
unfavourable  specimen  of  this  writer's  metrical  powers : — 

Fostquam  tristis  hyems  sephyro  spirante  reoessit, 

Grandoi  nives,  plurias  consultiere  fugse, 
Terra  parens  florum  vires  rediriva  resumpdt, 

Exeruitque  caput  ezhilarata  suuffli 
Ver  caput  atque  comes  aestatis  in  otia  cures 

Laxat,  et  ablato  frigore  flore  nitet. 
Vemat  fronde  nemus,  yestitur  gramine  tellus, 

Veris  odoriferi  spirat  ubique  vapor. 
Quioquid  hyems  hyemlsque  graves  rapuere  minlstri, 

Redditit  «statis  gratia  vere  novo. 
Veris  ad  imperium  surgens  statione  soluta, 

Clause  sub  itotivo  carcere  cedit  hyems. 
Flante  levi  sephyro  dum  ver  lascivit  in  herbasi 

^stas  multiplici  flore  maritat  humum. 
Temporis  atque  loci  facie  redeunte  serensi 

Sidtibus  et  silvis  redditur  exul  avis ; 


BiC.  /.]  NIGBLLUS   WIREKER.  353 

QittBqiie  din  silnit  philomena  lilentU  solvit» 

Voce  ana  redimens  verba  negate  sibL 
Ciqus  ad  ezemplam,  sterili  torpore  remote, 

Morem  temporibus  qui  gerk  ipse  sapit. 

It  appears  by  the  concluding  lines^  that  this  poem  was 
dedicated  to  William  de  Longdiamp,  soon  after  he  was 
raised  to  the  chancellorship  in  1190.  The  writer  addresses 
his  book  in  Leonines : — 

Si  mihi  credideris  nulla  ratione  moreris, 

Perficies  leviter  hoc  breritetis  iter ; 
Nee  timeas  enses»  quia  sen  statnant  Elyensea 

Prelia,  siye  joci  sint  ibi  more  lod, 
Prssnle  tutus  erisi  rite  yotoque  firneris, 

Legatnsque  tibi  non  erit  liostis  ibi, 
Nee  oanceUatusy  sed  ab  ipso  canonicatus 

Jure  rererteris»  sioque  perennis  eris. 

This  short  poem  appears  to  be  merely  an  introduction  to 
a  prose  treatise  on  the  corruptions  in  the  church  which 
follows  it  in  the  manuscript  last  mentioned^  anxi  which  is 
addressed  likewise  to  the  bishop  of  Ely.'^  In  this  treatise^ 
Nigellus  speaks  of  the  bishop  in  jbbe  most  flattering  terms^ 
and  addresses  him  as  an  enlighteued  reformer  of  the  abuses 
of  the  age.  He  describes  the  disorders  which  had  crept 
into  the  church  during  tibe  preceding  reign^  and  illus- 
trates his  observations  by  anecdotes  which  add  consider- 
ably to  the  value  of  the  book,  which  has  never  been  printed. 
The  following  extract  will  give  the  best  notiou  of  the  style 
in  which  it  is  written. 

Longe  antem  aliter  alter!  contigit.  Reye  Henrico  in  finibns  VaHise  cum 
ezerdtn  agente,  mmor  subito  ad  ciuiam  perlatus  jsst  qnod  dericus  quidam 
dives  Talde  diem  .dausisaet  eactremom.  Habebat  antem  idem  multas  ecde- 
stas  pretiosas,  unam  temen  pretipsiorem  inter  alias.  Quo  andito,  dericus 
quidam  qui  inter  alios  gratiam  in  oculis  regis  ampliorem  invenisse  gloriaba- 
tnr,  surrezit  yejodter  et  petiit  a  rege  litteras  ad  abbatem  quendam  pro 

*  It  begins  with  the  words,  '*  RcTerendo  patri  et  domino  Willelmo  Dei 
ipratia  ElieOsi  epiMopo,  apostolicss  sedis  legato»  regni  Anglue  cancellario, 
Cantuariensis  ecclesise  fratmm  minimus  firater  Nigellusi  Teste  monachus; 
y^te  peccator,  gradu  presbyter  sed  indignus.*' 

yOL.  ij.  2  A 


354  NioBLLUs  wiRBKBR*  [Reign  of 

ecelei ia  pnedicto.  QaibiiB  impetntiB,  quia  abbas  ille  ad  qnem  spectabat 
donatio  octo  dieram  itinere  diatabat  a  rege,  feBtinavit  ne  alios  pnecnrreret 
et  apprehenderet  braTinm,  et  pneriperet  be&edictionem.  Mutatis  igitur 
non  semel  equitatnris  et  quibnsdam  interfectia,  ac  socits  itineris  impotentio- 
ribns  obitum  relictis,  bis  iiij^'  dietas  fere  duobos  confedt.  Sabstitit  enim 
citra  locam  nbi  abbas  morabatnr  .z.  miliaribus,  non  quia  roluntas  progredi- 
eodi  deficeret,  sed  virtus  propria,  comitum  et  equorum  regionis  ignotss  error 
suspectus  et  noz  pro  parte  jam  exacta  ulterius  progredi  probibebat.  Fati- 
gatus  autem  ex  itiaere,  et  tristior  effectus  audito  quod  eo  die  ecclesia  alteri 
esset  collata,  acrius  coepit  aegrotari,  yersusque  ad  parietem  nee  cibnm  nee 
consolationem  volnit  acdpere ;  nnde  in  crastino  utroque  homine,  altero  prae 
fktigatione,  altero  prae  anzietate  fmstrari  deaiderii,  defidente,  abdormint  in 
mortem.  Delatusque  est  ad  abbatiam,  et  abbati  ante  mortnus  nuntiatus  et 
ezpositus,  quam  ipse  causam  adventus  sni  ezponeret ;  adbuc  litterae  regis 
fadentes  pro  mo  recenti  daudebantur  sigillo,  et  jam  mortuus  claudebatnr 
sepulcro.  Priusque  scitum  est  quare  non  recederet,  qu2im  cur  tam  subito 
adveniret ;  ante  passus  est  ruinam,  qukm  petitio  ejus  pateretnr  repulsam. 
Nondum  abbas  regiae  petitioni  abnuerat,  et  ipse  de  non  petendo  ulterius  jam 
satisdabat.  Si  mortuus  est  pro  ecclesia  quam  ita  ambierat,  non  est  causan* 
dus  rezy  qui  pro  clerioo  suo  scripsit,  neque  abbas  qui  rei  nesdns  nee  concessit 
nee  negavit.  Imo  ipse  qui  in  deferenda  abbati  petitione  regia  et  nimis 
moratus  «t  nimis  festinavit ;  sicque  dum  nimio  hiatu  anhelavit  ad  obtinendum 
non  habita,  prius  babita  perdidit  qukm  obtineret  quod  optavit. 

The  most  remarkable  and  most  generally  known  of  the 
writings  of  Nigellus  is  the  Speculum  StuUorum,  a  satire 
in  Latin  elegiacs  on  the  follies  of  his  age,  directed 
more  especially  against  the  corruptions  of  the  monastic 
orders.  This  poem  enjoyed  a  very  extensive  popularity 
during  the  middle  ages ;  many  copies  are  still  preserved 
in  manuscript,  and  it  was  frequently  printed  by  the  early 
printers,  who  however  fell  generally  into  the  error  of 
calling  the  author  VigeUus.  This  poem  is  addressed  to  a 
iriend  named  William  :— 

Susdpe  panca  tibi  Teteris,  Willehne,  Nigdli 

Scripta,  minus  sapido  nuper  arata  stylo : 
Hoc  modicum  novitatis  opus  tibi  mitto  legendum» 

Maxima  pars  animae  dimidiumque  meie. 

This  person  is  also  supposed  to  be  William  de  Longchamp 
bishop  of  Ely,  in  which  case  it  must  have  been  composed 


Ric»  /.]  NIQBLLUS  WIRBKBR.  355 

at  the  latter  end  of  the  reign  of  Henry  11.^  before  William 
was  raised  to  the  prelacy,  as  here  and  in  the  prose  prologue 
which  generally  accompanies  the  poem*  he  is  not  ad- 
dressed as  an  ecclesiastic  of  rank.  As  the  author  applies 
to  himself  the  term  vetus,  we  may  suppose  that  he  was 
then  advanced  in  years.  The  hero  of  this  singular  pro- 
duction is  an  ass  named  Brunellus,  who  is  introduced  dis- 
satisfied with  his  own  condition^  and  ambitious  of  possess- 
ing a  longer  tail.  The  ass,  we  are  informed  in  the  prose 
abstract,  represents  the  monks  in  general,  who  were  always 
longing  after  some  new  acquisition  which  was  inconsis- 
tent with  their  profession.  Brunellus  consults  a  physician, 
Ghdienus,  who  represents  to  him  the  folly  of  his  request, 
and  states  that  in  this  particular  king  Louis  of  France 
was  no  less  deficient  than  himself. 

In  titnlo  caudiB  Franconim  rez  Lndoriciu 

Non  tibi  precellit,  pontificesre  sni« 
Finniter  ergo  tene  quod  babes,  quia  conditionem 

De  facili  posses  damnificare  tuam. 

Gahenus  proceeds  to  tell  a  fable  of  two  cows,  who  were 
caught  by  the  tails  in  the  ice  during  a  sudden  frost ;  but 
at  last  he  ^ves  him  a  receipt  to  make  his  tail  grow  longer, 
and  sends  him  to  Salemum  to  obtain  the  ingredients. 
Brunellus  is  there  cheated  by  a  merchant  of  London,  and 
on  his  way  home  falls  into  other  misfortunes,  in  the  course 
of  which  he  loses  a  part  of  his  tail,  and  drowns  a  Cistercian 
monk  who  had  plotted  against  his  life.  Ashamed  to  return 
to  his  native  town  without  having  profited  by  his  journey, 
he  determines  to  visit  the  schools  to  study,  and  with 
this  object  he  proceeds  to  Paris.  On  the  way  he  makes 
acquaintance  with  another  traveller,  named  Gerhardus, 
who  is  repairing  to  Paris  with  the  same  object,  and  who 

*  Dilecto  sibi  in  Christo  et  semper  diligendo  fratri  Guilbelmo  snus  Nigel» 
luB  salntem  in  sammo  et  Tero  salutari. 

2  a2 


356  NIGBLLU8  WIRBKBR.  [ReiffH  o/ 

tells  him  the  story  of  a  priest's  son  and  a  cock,  as  an  ex- 
ample of  the  danger  of  provoking  vengefiil  sentiments  even 
in  those  who  are  weaker  than  ourselves.  At  length  they 
arrive  at  Paris,  and  Bninellus  associates  himself  with  the 
scholars  of  the  English  nation. 

Talia  jam  pariter  gradientes  plum  referre&t, 

Fariaiiis  subeunt,  hospitiiimque  petunt. 
Corpora  fessa  quies  recreat,  tenuisque  dieta, 

Damna  recompenaant  menaa  caUxqne  frequens. 
Oaaa,  catem,  nerros,  quae  Td  labor  ant  Yia  longa 

Qnaaaarat,  refoTent  balnea,  cnra,  qnies. 
Bmnelluaqne  sibi  mimiit,  crinesque  totonditi 

Induit  et  tunica  se  meliore  sua. 
Fexiis  et  ablntna,  tandem  progresfos  in  nibem» 

Intrat  in  ecdesiam,  vota  preoeaque  fiunt. 
Inde  acholaa  adiena,  aecmn  deliberat  ntrum 

Ezpediant  potius  ista  yel  ilia  aibi. 
Et  quia  aubtilea  eenan  considenit  Anglos, 

Plnribns  ex  cansis  se  sociavit  eis. 
Moiibna  egregii,  verbo  Toltaqiie  lamgd, 

Ingenio  pollent  consilioqne  Tigent. 
0ona  pluimt  popnlis,  et  detestantor  avaras ; 

Fercola  moltiplicant,  et  sine  lege  bibnnt 
W^theil  et  drincheil,  nee  non  persona  seconda» 

Hkc  tria  snnt  yitia  qiue  oomitantar  eis. 
His  tribus  ezoeptis,  nihil  est  qnod  in  his  reprehendaa  ; 

Hkc  tria  si  toUas,  ccetera  cmicta  plaoent. 

Brunellus  proves  himself  an  unapt  scholar,  and  quits 
Paris  in  despair,  but  at  length  he  determines  on  enter- 
ing one  of  the  monastic  orders.  He  then  successively 
reviews  their  several  characters,  and  condemns  them  all. 
The  duties  of  the  templars  and  hospitallers  are  too  full  of 
danger  and  hardship;  the  monks  of  Cluny,  the  Cistercians, 
those  of  Orandmont,  the  Carthusians,  &c.  are  all  objected 
to  for  their  vices  or  their  absurdity.  The  secular  canons 
are  charged  with  reckless  profligacy. 

Hi  nihil  ezdpiunt,  nee  dieont  despidendum, 
Qnicqnid  in  obseqnio  corporis  esse  potest. 

Hind  prvdpue  tamen  institnere  tenendum 
Omnibus  in  tota  poeteritate  sua, 


Ric,  /.]  NIOBLLUS  WIBEKBR*  S57 

Lex  Tetus  «t  luasit,  ne  quiUbet  abaqoe  m  ik, 

£t  quod  qiuiqne  guas  point  habere  dues. 
Hi  rant  qm  nmndam  cum  flore  cadente  tenentes, 

Ne  cito  maroeaeat  i«pe  rigare  stadent. 
Hi  rant  qui  facinnt  qaicqnid  petulantia  camia 

Imperat,  at  vitiia  ait  Tia  pronaania. 
Totna  inerrorem  mnndiia,  pneeontibiia  istia, 

Dndtar,  hi  pneeont  pnedpiteaqne  raont. 

The  nuns  are  described  as  being  equally  faulty  with  the 
monks— 

Corpore  aeipentea,  riicnea  tocc^  draconea 
Pectore,  Snaanna  amigmate,  oorde  Paria. 

And  we  are  further  informed  that — 

Nnnquam  rizantnr,  niai  com  locoa  exigit,  ant  rea  ; 

Sed  neqne  pereatinnt,  ait  nisi  canaa  gratia. 
Harum  aont  qmedam  aterilea,  qnaedam  parientea, 

Yirgineoqne  tamen  nomine  eoncta  tegnnt. 
Qjam  paatonOia  bacnli  dotatnr  honore, 

Ilia  qnidem  melina  fertilinaqne  parit. 
Viz  etiam  qnsTia  aterilia  repeiitor  in  iHia, 

Donee  eis  aetaa  talia  poaae  negat. 

Dissatisfied  with  all  the  existing  monastic  orders,  Brunei- 
lus  resolves  to  form  a  new  sect  for  himself,  in  which  he 
joins  the  more  agreeable  characteristics  of  the  others. 
In  the  midst  of  his  reflections,  he  meets  his  old  adviser, 
Oalienus,  tells  him  at  some  length  his  observations  on  the 
different  ranks  and  orders  of  the  clergy  and  on  the  various 
classes  of  society,  and  advises  him  to  enter  his  new  order. 
But  in  the  midst  of  his  speculations  Brunellus  suddenly 
falls  into  the  hands  of  his  master,  from  whom  he  had 
escaped  when  he  visited  Salemum,  and  he  is  compelled  to 
end  his  days  in  the  degraded  position  for  which  he  was 
originally  formed.  Thus  concludes  the  Speculum  Stulto^ 
rum,  a  severe  satire  on  the  condition  of  society  in  the  age 
when  it  was  written. 
Several  other  tracts  are  ascribed  to  Nigellus  by  the  old 


358  BENEDICT  OF  PETERBOROUGH.      IDlcd  1195. 

bibliographers,  some  of  which  appear  to  be  only  different 
titles  of  the  same  work.  The  poem  in  the  Cottonian  MS. 
beginning  with  the  words.  Si  mihi  credideriSy  Unguam  co- 
hibej  is  nothing  more  than  John  of  Salisbury's  poetical 
introduction  to  the  PolycraUcus,  entitled  in  some  editions 
Eutheticus.  The  Distinctiones  super  Novum  et  vetus  TeS" 
tamentumy  the  Excerptiones  ex  Guarnerio  Gregoriano  super 
moralia  Job,  the  Glosses  in  Joharmemy  which  are  given 
under  his  name  by  Leland  and  Bale,  appear  to  be  lost 

Edition». 

The  first  edition  of  the  ^/fteulum  Stultorttm  was  printed  in  folio«  without 

date,  and  is  now  very  rare. 
Speculam  stnltomm.    The  second  leaf  begins,  Incipit  epistola  Teteris  yigeUi 

ad  Vnilhelmum  amicnm  sanm,  &c.    Ends,  Elzplidt  specnlom  stoltonim. 

With  an  epigram  in  six  lines.  4to.  black  letter,  without  place  or  date, 

(BHt,  Mui,) 
Another  edition,  without  date  or  name  of  place,  in  black  letter,  was  printed 

in  the  fifteenth  centary. 
Liber  qui  Ititulatur  Bruoellus  in  speculo  stultorum.     Narratio  Galiem  de 

bruneta  et  bicomi.    Narratio  de  gallo  et  querimon^s  galline.   Brunellns 

9uertit  se  ad  sing'los  status  holm.     At  the  end, — BrunelU  in  speculo 

stultorum  Finis  adest  felidtur   In  imperial!  feliciq;  ciuitate  Coloniensi 

Anno  dominice   incamatidis   mlllesimo  quadringentesimo  nonageaimo 

nono  die  ultima  February.  4to.  {Brit  Mtu.) 
An  edition  in  small  4to,  was  printed  at  Paris,  J.  Petit,  1506. 
Nigaldi  Wiroker,  anglici  bardi,  Speculum  Stultorum.     Parisiis,  1601. 
Bninellus  Vigelli,  &  Vetola  Ovidii.  Sen :  opuscula  duo  Auctorum  Incerto- 

rum  :  Prius  quidem  Vigelli,  qui  fertur,  Speculum  Stultorum ;  Posterina 

vero  Libri  tres  de  Vetola,  Ovidii,  fslso  sic  dicti .  • .  Anno  do  lOCLXII. 

Wolfcrbyti.  8vo. 


BENEDICT  OF  PETERBOROUGH. 

Benedict  appears  to  have  been  originally  a  monk  of 
Canterbury.  He  held  the  office  of  chancellor  to  Becket's 
successor,  archbishop  Richard;  in  1175  he  was  elected 


Died  1193.]       benedict  of  Peterborough.  359 

prior  of  Canterbury,  and  in  1177  he  was  remored  thence 
to  be  made  abbot  of  Peterborough.*  He  died  at  the  latter 
end  of  September,  in  the  year  ll93.t 

Benedict  is  known  chiefly  by  a  history,  or  rather  a 
chronicle,  of  his  own  times,  written  in  Latin  in  a  plain 
style,  commencing  with  11 70,  the  year  before  the  death  of 
Becket,  and  ending  with  the  year  1192,  that  which  pre^ 
ceded  his  own  death.  It  is  the  most  valuable  account  left 
us  of  the  events  of  this  period,  being  compiled  with  labour 
and  by  a  contemporary.  Few  monastic  writers  give  so 
many  official  documents  as  are  inserted  in  this  history.  It 
was  transferred  almost  literally  into  the  Annals  of  Roger 
de  Hoveden.  The  following  short  extract  will  serve  as  a 
specimen  of  Benedict's  latinity : 

De  mgreuu  Lodowiei  regis  in  Normanniam. 

Similiter  antem  circa  octabas  apostolomm  Petri  et  P^nli,  Lodowicns  rex 
Franciee  com  magno  ezercita  intravit  Normanniamy  et  obaedit  Vemolimn,  et 
atadm  fecit  fieri  machinas  bellicaa,  et  cotidie  circamqnaqtte  fecenmt  imoltam 
Id  eo.  Sed  Hugo  de  Lasci  et  Hugo  de  Bellocampo,  qui  inde  conatabularii 
eranty  Tillam  Yemolii  Tiriliter  et  constanti  animo  defenderunt,  cum  militibus 
et  aerrientibus  qui  intus  erant ;  nee  regem  Franci»  nee  machinas  snaa  time- 
bant.  Nam  rex  Franciae  cum  auo  maguo  exercitu  pamm  proficiebat,  quia 
jam  per  mensem  ibi  moram  fecerat,  et  in  nullo  eis  nocere  potuit,  nisi  ex  parte 
ilia  ubi  tentoria  sua  fixa  fnerant.  Ibi  enim  posit»  erant  machin»  suse  bellic». 
Erant  quidem  infra  Vemolium  tres  burgi  prster  castellum,  et  unusquisque 
eorum  separatus  erat  ab  altero  et  interclnsus  forti  muro  et  fosso  aqua  pleno ; 
unus  Tero  illorum  dicebatnr  magnus  burgus,  et  ibi  extra  murum  fixa  erant 
tentoria  regis  Frands  et  machina  illins  bellice.  In  fine  autem  iUius  mensis, 
cum  burgenses  de  burgo  yidissent  quod  yictus  et  necessaria  eis  defecissent, 
nee  haberent  quid  mandncassent,  oompnlsi  lame  et  inopia  indudas  triduanas 
oeperunt  a  rege  Franciei  ut  libere  irent  et  exirent  ad  regem  Angli«  propter 
succursum,  et  nisi  infra  sequens  triduum  ab  eo  succursum  haberent,  red- 
derent  ei  burgum  ilium  quem  tenebant. 

An  edition  of  this  work  was  published,  not  so  judiciously 
as  could  be  desired,  by  Thomas  Hearne,  from  a  manu- 

*  Qenras.  ap.  Wharton,  A.  Sac  toI.  i.  p.  13d. 
t  Annal.  Job.  ab.  Burg.  ap'.  Sparke. 


560  RICHARD  OF  0BVIZE8.  [Reign  qf 

script  in  the  Haorleian  Idbrarf^  ediated  iritfi  two  manu- 
scripts in  the  Cottonian  library  (MSS.  Cotton*  Julius 
A.  xi^  and  Vitellius  E.  xvii)^  both  of  which  are  still  pre- 
served^ although  the  latter  has  suffered  much  from  the 
fire.  An  edition  of  the  remaining  works  of  this  writer  is 
promised  by  Dr.  Giles.  His  life  of  Becket  appears  to  be 
lost^  but  an  abridgement  of  it  was  printed  by  Surius^ 
Benedict  was  also  the  author  of  a  collection  of  the  miracles 
attributed  to  Becket^  distributed  into  five  books,  ci  which 
Dr.  cues  has  discovered  a  copy  among  the  manuscripts 
in  a  continental  library.  Tanner  states  erroneously  that 
Benedict  was  one  of  the  authors  of  the  Quadrilogus*  L^ 
land*  found  in  the  library  at  Canterbury  a  treatise  on  the 
CompotuSj  and  a  Ubellus  de  augmenio  et  decremento  lunm 
ascribed  to  Benedicius  mofMchtu,  but  it  does  not  appear 
that  this  was  Benedict  of  Peterborough. 

BditUm, 


BenMfictttB  abbas  Petrobnrgensia  de  Vita  et  Gestu  Henrid  II.  et  Rkardi  I. 
E  codioe  MS.  in  Bibliotbeca  Harleiana  deacripsit  et  none  primiiBa 
edidit  Thomaa  Hearniua*    Ozonii,  MDcexzxv.  2  toI.  8to. 


RICHARD  OP  DilVlZES. 

Richard  of  Devizes^  so  called  probably  from  the  pla(^ 
of  his  birth^  was  a  monk  of  the  priory  of  St.  Swithun  at 
Winchester^  and  the  intimate  friend  of  his  prior^  Robert. 
The  latter  was  remored  in  1191  to  be  made  prior  of  the 
Charterhouse  at  Witham,  and  Richard  yisited  him  there^ 
but  he  soon  returned  to  Winchester,  and  there,  shortly 
afterwards^  wrote  a  history  of  the  first  years  of  the  reign  of 

*  Ck>llectaii.  toI  iii.  p.  189* 


Rie.  /•]  RICHARD  OP  DBYIZBS.  361 

Richard  I^  beginning  in  IISS^  and  ending  with  the  king's 
departure  from  Palestine  in  1 192.  He  dedicated  this  book 
to  his  friend  prior  Robert,  in  a  short  prologue  from  which 
we  derive  all  that  is  known  of  the  author.  It  is  probably 
his  only  work,  for  there  is  no  reason  for  ascribing  to  him 
the  general  chronicle  which  precedes  it  in  a  manuscript  in 
the  library  of  Corpus  Christi  college,  Cambridge,  No.  339. 
The  chronicle  of  Richard  of  Devizes  is  one  of  the  earliest 
and  mo9t  authentic  memorials  of  the  period  to  which  it 
relates,  but  it  is  written  in  an  affected  style,  fiUed  with 
passages  from  the  classic  writers.  The  following  singular 
character  by  a  Jew  of  the  chief  cities  in  England  will 
serve  as  a  specimen ; 

Valedixit  Jadaeo  rao ;  cni  Jadffivs,  "  Vade/'  ait,  ^*  virfliter.  Deas  patmm 
mednim  deducat  te  aicnt  deaidero.*'  Et,  impoaitis  manibna  snper  caput  ejtia, 
ao  ai  eaaet  hirciia  emiaaarina,  poat  atridoraa  qnosdam  guttnria  et  taoitaa  im- 
preeatioxiM,  jam  de  pneda  aecnniB,  acyedt,  **  ibrti  animo  eatOi  obliTiacere 
popnliim  tQum  et  terram  toam,  quia  omnia  terra  forti  patria  est» 

Ut  piadbua  nqnor, 
Et  Tolocri  Tacuo  quioqaid  in  orbe  patet 

AngHam  ingreaada  ai  Londoniaa  Teneria,  oeleriter  pertranaibia ;  multurn  eninr 
mihi  diaplidt  ilia  polia.  Omne  homlnum  ^niia  in  iUam  oonfluit  ex  omni 
natione  que  anb  ooelo  eat ;  omnia  gena  ana  vitia  et  saoa  morea  nrbi  intnlit. 
Nemo  in  ea  aine  crimine  yiyit ;  non  omnia  in  ea  vicna  non  abnndat  triatibna 
obioenia ;  eo  ibi  qniaqnia  mdior  eat  quo  foerit  nugor  in  toelere.  Non  ignoro 
qnem  inatmo :  habea  anpra  toam  statem  ferrorem  ingenii,  frigiditatem 
memorin,  ex  ntrinqne  contrariia  temperantiam  rationla.  Nihil  de  te  mihi 
metoo,  niai  cnm  male  Tiyentibna  commoreria ;  ex  convictn  enim  mores  for- 
mantnr.  Eato,  esto,  Londonias  Teniea.  Ecoe,  prsedico  tibi,  qnicqnid  in 
ringnUa,  qvicquid  in  nniTeraia  partibna  mnndi  mall  Tel  malitisB  eat,  in  mat 
ilia  ciTitate  reperies.  Lenonnm  choroa  non  adeaa,  ganearam  gregibna  non 
immiacearia ;  vita  tahim  et  tesseram,  theatnun  et  tabeniam.  Plnrea  ibi  quanf 
in  tota  Gallia  thraaonea  offendea,  gnatfaonum  autem  infinitna  est  nnmems. 
Hiatrionea,  acnrr»i  glabrionea,  ganmantes»  palponea,  pnsionea,  molleai  maa^ 
cnlarii,  ambnbaie,  pharmaoopolse,  criaaaris,  phitoniasse,  Tnltoariae,  noctivagv^ 
magi,  mimi,  mendici,  balathronea,  hoc  genua  omne»  replerere  domos.  Ergo, 
ai  nolueritia  habitare  oum  tnrpibua,  non  habitabia  Londonila ;  non  loquor  in 
literatoa  vel  rdigiosos,  aire  Judaeoa ;  quamvia  et  ex  ipsa  cohabitatione  ma-^ 
lomm,  minua  eos  ibi  quam  alibi  crediderim  esse  perfectos.    Nee  eo  pergit 


362  WILLIAM  FITZ-8TSPHBN.  [Reign  OjT 


ontio,  ut  ntdlain  te  radpiaa  chitatem,  emu  meo  ooniilio  njutpam  tibi  nt  i 
in  wbe  manendum,  refiert  tamen  in  qua.  Si  igitor  circa  Cantuariam  appn- 
lerifl,  iter  habebis  perdere ;  si  yel  per  earn  tranaieria.  Tota  est  ilia  perdi' 
toram  collectio  ad  snnm  nescio  qnem  nnper  doficatamy  qui  ftierat  Cantoari» 
arebipresbyter,  quod  paasim  prae  inopia  pania  et  otio  per  plateas  morinntiir 
ad  8oIem«  Roreoestria  et  Cioestria  vicnli  sunt,  et  cor  civitatea  did  debeant 
prater  aedea  flaminum  mbll  obtendnnt  Qzonia  yix  snoa  clericoa  non  dioo 
aatiaty  sed  avatentat.  Exonia  eodem  turt  refidt  bominea  et  jnmenta. 
Batfaonia  in  imia  TaUium  in  craaao  nimia  aere  et  yapore  anlpbnreo  poeita,  imo 
deposita,  est  ad  portaa  inferi.  Sed  nee  in  arctois  aedem  tibi  legeris  nrbibnar 
Wigomia,  Cestria,  Herefordia,  propter  Walenaea  vits  prodigoa.  Eboracam 
Scottia  abnndatr  foedia  et  infidia  bominibna  Tel  homnncionibna.  Elienaia^ 
pagua  pntidua  eat  pro  drcomfuiia  palndiboa.  In  Dandmo,  Northwico,  8i?e 
lincolnia,  peipaneoa  de  potentiboa  de  toa  conditione,  noUnm  penitua  audiea 
Romane  loqnentem.  Apud  BriatoUnm  nemo  eat  qm  non  sit  vel  ftierit  aapo- 
narina,  et  omnia  Francna  aaponarioa  amat  vt  ttercorarioa.  Poat  nrbea»  omne 
foram,  villa,  vd  oppidnm,  inoolaa  babet  mdea  et  ruaticoe.  Omni  inauper 
tempore  pro  talibua  Conmbienaea  habeto,  qnalea  in  Franda  uostri  noatroa 
Flandrenaea  baberi.  Csetemm  regio  ipsa  generaliter  in  rore  coeli  et  in  pingne* 
dine  terra  tota  beatiaaima  eat ;  in  nngnlia  etiam  loda  aliqni  boni  aunt,  aed 
multo  minos  in  omnibus  quam  in  una  Wintonia.*' 

Bdition. 

Cbronicon  Bicardi  DiTiaienaia  de  rebua  geatia  Ricardi  Primi  regia  Angliae: 
Nunc  primum  typia  mandatnm,  curante  Joaepho  Sterenaon.  Londini, 
M.DCco.xxxviii.  8to.    Published  hj  the  English  Historical  Sodety. 

TrmulaiUm, 

The  Chronicle  of  Richard  of  Derizea  concerning  the  deeds  of  Richard  the 
Firat,  king  of  England.  Alao,  Richard  of  Cirenoeater'a  Deacription  of 
Britain.  Tranalated  and  edited  by  J.  A.  Gilea»  LL.D.  London,  1841 .  8to. 


WILLIAM  FITZ-STEPHEN. 

One  of  the  best  writers  of  the  life  of  Thomas  Becket  was 
William  Pitz-Stephen,  a  native  of  London,  and  a  clerk  in 
Becket's  household,  who  placed  so  much  confidence  in 
him  that  he  gave  him  important  employments    in  his 


Jtic.  L]  WILLIAM    FITZ-8TEPHBN.  363 

chancery,  in  his  chapel,  and  in  his  court.*  He  farther 
informs  us  that  he  was  present  with  the  primate  in  the 
parliament  at  Northampton^  one  of  the  most  important 
events  in  the  history  of  Becket's  disputes  with  the 
king;  and  that  he  was  a  witness  of  his  murder,  as  well  as 
of  many  other  of  the  events  mentioned  in  his  narrativcf 
It  appears  also,  from  a  part  of  this  life  not  contained  in 
the  printed  text,  that  William  Fitz-Stephen  was  excepted 
from  the  persecution  which  raged  over  the  heads  of  Beckefs 
other  friends  at  the  time  of  his  exile,  in  return  for  a  me- 
trical prayer  which  he  had  once  presented  to  the  king  in 
the  chapel  of  Brehul  {de  BruhtUla),  and  which  commenced 
with  the  lines — 

Rex  canctomm  saecnlomm,  rex  ards  setherue, 
Rector  poll,  rector  soli»  regam  rex  altissime, 
Qui  et  maris  dominarifl»  contorbas  et  exdtaa, 
£t  qnnm  placet,  stratum  jacet,  motnrn  ejus  mitigas. 
Tu  creastii  ta  formasti,  coelos,  terras,  maria ; 
Quae  fecisti,  condidisti,  ta  gubemas  omnia. 
Omne  bonum  taam  donum,  omnipotentissime ; 
Concta  grata  tua  data,  dominonim  domine. 

The  whole  of  this  prayer  is  inserted  in  the  Life  of  Becket. 
This  life,  which  appears  to  have  been  composed  some  time 
after  the  primate's  death,  is  written  in  a  calmer  style 
(although  by  a  partizan),  and  the  narrative  is  more  lucid, 
than  most  of  the  other  lives  of  Becket.  It  was  printed  by 
Sparke,  but  from  a  very  incomplete  manuscript;  a  much 

*  Ego  WiUelmns  filiiis  Stephani ejnsdem  domini  mei  condyis, 

dericas,  et  conyictor,  ^  ad  partem  solicitadinis  ejus  oris  ipsius  invitatas  allo- 
qiiio,  ftii  in  canoellaria  ejus  dictator,  in  capella  eo  celebrante  sabdiaoonns, 
sedente  eo  ad  cognitionem  cansamm  epistolamm  et  instmmentomm  qiue 
offerebantor  lector,  et  aliquanim  eo  qnandoque  jnbente  cansarum  patronus* 
Prolog,  in  Vit.  Thomie. 

t  Concilio  Northamtonise  habito,  nbi  maximum  fait  rerom  momentum, 
cam  ipso  intertm ;  passionem  ejus  Cantuarise  inspexi ;  cstera  plorima,  quse 
hie  scribuntur,  oculis  vidl,  auribus  audivi,  qundam  a  consdis  dldid  relato- 
ribns.    lb. 


364  WILLIAM  FITZ-STBPHBN*  [Reiffn  qf 

superior  edition  is  now  in  preparation  by  Dr.  Giles.  It 
opens  with  a  detailed  account  of  the  city  of  London^  and 
of  the  manners  of  its  inhabitants,  as  the  natire  place  both 
of  its  author  and  of  Becket;  this  has  been  printed  separ 
rately  in  Stowe's  Survey  of  London,  by  Heame  in  his 
edition  of  Leland^s  Itinerary,  and,  with  a  translation,  by 
Dr.  Pegge.  As  a  specimen  of  William's  Latinity,  we  give 
his  account  of  the  schools  which  existed  in  London  in 
the  twelfth  century. 

In  Londonift  tres  prindpala  eodniae  schoIaB  celebres  habent  de  priyikgio  et 
antiqna  digmtata.  Fterdmqne  tnnea  fiiTore  penonali  alicigiui  notonun  ae- 
candam  philosophiam  pliireg  ibi  Bcholae  admittuntar.  Diebia  foatia  ad  eoda-r 
aiaa  fSsatiyaa  magiatri  eonventiia  celebrant.  Diapntant  acbolarea^  qnidam  de- 
monatratire,  dialeotioe  alii;  hii  rotant  entfaymemafca,  hii  perfeetia  meliua 
atontor  ayUogianua.  Qnidam  ad  oetentationem  ezeroentor  diapntationei  qnn 
eat  inter  ooUnctantea;  alii  ad  veritatem,  qn»  eatperapectionia  gratia.  SopfaiatK 
aimnlatorea  agmine  et  innndatione  Terbomm  beati  jndicantor;  aiii  paralogi- 
sant.  Oratorea  aliqni  qoandoqne  oratiombna  rhetoricia  aliqnid  dicnnt  opposite 
ad  pennadendnm,  curantes  artia  pneoepta  aervarey  et  ex  contingentibna  nihil 
omittere.  Pneil  diTenamm  acholamm  veraibna  inter  ae  oomizantor;  ant 
de  prindiriia  artia  grammaticfle,  yel  regalia  praeteritonim  vel  anpinonun,  con- 
tendnnt.  Snnt  alii  qni  in  epigrammatibna,  rytfamia,  et  metria,  ntuntnr  yetere 
ilia  triyiali  dicacitate ;  licentia  Feacennina  aocioe,  anppreaaia  nominibna,  libe- 
fiiia  lacerant ;  loedoriaa  jacnlantnr  et  acommata ;  aalibna  Socratida  aodonim 
tel  forte  majonun  yitia  tangnnt,  yel  mordadna  dente  rodunt  Theonino 
andadbna  ditfayrambia.    Anditorea, 

mnltom  ridere  parati, 
Ingeminant  tremnloa  naao  criapante  eacliinnoe. 

Bale  attributes  to  William  Fitz-Stephen  a  book  of  visions 
seen  after  Becket's  death,  and  another  of  his  miracles, 
which  were  probably  only  the  latter  chapters  of  the  life. 
Fitz-Stephen  refers  for  his  miracles  to  a  lai^  volume  of 
them,  collected  at  Canterbury,*  which  he  would  hardly 
have  done  had  he  published  a  collection  himself.  A  col- 
lection of  miracles  ascribed  to  Becket,  published  in  the 

*  Sed  de  miracnlia  qua  in  Anglia  aacerdotom  et  bononun  yironun  teati- 
monio  dedaratiB, — et  in  capitolo  Cantuarienaia  eocleaiie  pnblice  redtatia, 
inagnna  codex  oonacriptna  extat.    Vit.  S.  Thorn»  (in  Dr.  Gilea'a  text). 


lUc,  L]  ALAN  OF  TEWKESBURY.  365 

QuadriloffUf  under  the  name  of  William  of  Canterbury^ 
has  been  supposed  to  be  the  work  of  Fitz-Stephen. 

Ediiian. 

Hutori»  AngUean»  Scriptores  vara,  a  Codiciboa  Mannacriptia  xumc  primom 
editi.  Londlni,  1723,  foL  (by  Sparke)— Vita  Saacd  llioiiue  Arehifl- 
pisoqpi  &  Blaityria,  a  Willielmo  filio  StephanL 

Htz-Stephen'a  Description  of  the  City  of  London,  nswlj  trandated  from  the 
Latin  original ;  with  a  neoeasarj  Commentary,  a  Diaaertation  on  the 
Audior,  and  a  correct  Edition  of  the  Original,  &c.  By  an  Antiquary 
[Samuel  Pegge,  LL.D.]  177S.  4to. 


OTHER  WRITERS  OF  THE  LIFE  OF  BECKET. 

The  life  of  Becket  employed  die  pens  of  many  writers 
during  this  period.  One  of  diese  was  Alan  abbot  of 
Tewkesbury.  He  had  been  a  monk  of  Christ's  Churchy 
Canterbury,  and  in  1 179  was  appointed  prior  of  the  church. 
In  1186,  he  was  elected  abbot  of  Tewkesbury.  He  died 
in  1202.*  Alan  wrote  a  supplement  to  John  of  Salisbury's 
life  of  Becket,  containing  a  more  detailed  account  than 
that  writer  had  given  of  the  transactions  of  the  council 
of  Clarendon.  In  a  manuscript  in  the  Bodleian  library, 
the  life  and  preface  by  John  of  Salisbury  are  introduced 
between  the  preface  and  work  of  Alan  of  Tewkesbury.f 
According  to  Pits,  a  manuscript  at  Louvain  in  his  time 
contained  sermons  and  letters  by  Alan  of  Tewkesbury. 
Two  of  his  sermons  are  still  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in 
the  Bodleian  library.  A  manuscript  in  the  library  of 
Corpus  Christ!  College,  Cambridge,  No.  288,  contains 
letters  of  Alan  prior  of  Canterbury  to  king  Henry,  as  well 
as  to  the  king  of  France  and  others,  chiefly  relating  to 

*  See  Tanner,  and  Wharton,  Ang.  Sac.  vol.  i.  p.  138. 

t  There  is  another  copy  in  the  British  Museum,  MS.  Addit.  No.  11,506. 


566  ROGER  OF  CROTLAND.  [Ric.  L 

the  translation  of  Beckef  s  body ;  with  others  addressed 
to  archbishop  Baldwin,  relating  to  certain  rights  which 
the  metropolitan  see  of  Canterbury  claimed  over  the  see 
of  Rochester.  Pits  also  attributes  to  this  writer  Proble- 
nudum  lib.  %.,  which  he  appears  not  to  have  seen. 

RooER^monkofCroyland^andafterwardspriorof  Freston 
in  Lincolnshire,  was  also  the  author  of  a  life  of  Becket, 
commenced  in  the  last  year  of  the  reign  of  Richard  I. 
and  finished  late  in  that  of  John.  It  was  dedicated  to 
Henry  abbot  of  Croyland,  and,  according  to  Leland,  was 
divided  into  six  books.  There  are  manuscripts  of  a  life  of 
Becket,  supposed  to  be  that  of  Roger  of  Croyland,  in  the 
Bodleian  library,  and  in  the  library  of  University  College, 
Oxford,  but  only  in  three  books,  except  in  the  latter,  where 
a  fourth  book  is  added,  De  gestis  post  martyrium.  Roger 
of  Croyland  is  believed  to  have  written  the  second  or 
revised  copy  of  the  life  and  letters  of  Becket,  first  pub- 
lished by  John  of  Salisbury. 


PETER  OF  BLOIS. 

Pbter  of  Blois  was  one  of  those  foreign  ecclesiastics 
who  so  frequently  during  the  twelfth  century  obtained  bene- 
fices in  England,  and  earned  their  celebrity  as  writers  in 
their  adopted  country.  He  was  bom  at  Blois,  of  a  noble 
family  of  lower  Britany,  and  appears  to  have  been  edu- 
cated at  Tours.'^  He  tells  us  himself  that  from  his  child- 
hood he  had  passed  his  life  either  in  the  schools  or  in  the 
courts  of  prince8.t    He  removed  from  Tours  to  Paris, 

*  See  Epist.  ziL    There  ia  a  good  article  on  Peter  of  Blois  in  the  Hist, 
lit.  de  Fr.  torn,  xt,  p.  341. 
t  Ep.  csudx. 


Died  after  119&.]  pbtbr  op  blois.  367 

where  he  appears  to  have  studied  under  John  of  Salisbury, 
whom  he  mentions  as  one  of  his  teachers,^  which  would 
fix  the  date  to  between  1 140  and  1 150.  He  next  went  to 
Bologna,  to  study  jurisprudence ;  and  he  seems  to  have 
quitted  that  place  about  1160  or  1161,  when,  on  his  way 
to  Rome  to  do  homage  to  pope  Alexander  III.,  he  and 
his  companions  were  robbed  and  beaten  by  the  emissaries 
of  the  anti-pope  Victor  IV.f  On  his  return,  he  applied 
himself  to  the  study  of  theology  at  Paris,}  and  at  the 
same  time  he  taught  children  and  younger  students. 
About  the  year  1167,  he  accompanied  Stephen  du  Perche 
into  Sicily,  to  assist  him  in  governing  that  island  during 
the  minority  of  William  III.  and  regency  of  that  prince's 
mother,  queen  Margaret,  and  was  made  keeper  of  the 
royal  seal.  Peter  soon,  however,  became  obnoxious  to  the 
Sicilians,  and,  in  order  to  induce  him  to  resign  his  office, 
several  bishoprics  were  offered  him,  which  he  refused. 
At  length,  after  he  had  held  the  royal  seal  about  a  year, 
he  found  himself  compelled  to  leave  Sicily,  and  he  again 
commenced  teaching  at  P&ris,  where  he  appears  to  have 
gained  a  considerable  reputation  for  his  learning  and 
literary  acquirements.§ 

Peter  of  Blois  was  invited  to  England  by  king  Henry  II., 
and  made  chancellor  to  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury;  but 
we  are  ignorant  of  the  date  of  this  event  It  would  ap- 
pear from  one  of  his  letters  that  he  had  been  sent  on  a 
mission  to  Pftris  by  king  Henry  IL  in  1173  ;||  but  we 
know  with  more  certainty  that  in  the  beginning  of  the 
year  1175  he  returned  from  a  mission  to  Rome  with  which 

•  Ep.  zzii. 

i*  Spp*  xxriy  zhdii. 

t  Ep.  zxvi. 

§  Epp.  Izzii,  xc,  czxxi. 

11  Ep.  Izzi. 


368  PBTBR  OF  BLOI8.      .[Died  after  1198. 

he  had  been  intrusted  by  the  English  monarch.*  In 
1177  he  was  sent  to  Rome,  in  company  with  Girard  la 
Puoelle,  to  defend  the  claims  of  the  archbishop  of  Can* 
terbury  against  the  abbey  of  St.  Aogostine,  in  a  quarrel 
which  had  arisen  between  them;  but  he  was  unsuccess{ul.t 
In  1 187>  he  was  again  sent  to  the  pope,  Urban  III.,  then 
residing  at  Verona,  to  support  the  cause  of  archbishop 
Baldwin  against  his  monks4  We  hare  no  information  of 
the  date  at  which  Peter  was  made  aichdeacon  of  Bath, 
but  it  was  probably  towards  the  end  of  the  reign  of 
Henry  II.  He  appears^  firom  some  reason  or  otiier^  to 
have  been  in  disfavour  with  Richard  I.^  but  he  was  sup- 
ported by  the  firiendship  of  the  bishops  of  Worcester  and 
Durham,  and  after  their  deaths  he  obtained  the  favour  of 
queen  Eleanor,  the  widow  of  his  patron  king  Henry  II., 
who  made  him  her  secretary,  an  office  which  he  held  firom 
1  i91  until  after  1195.  He  was  a  steady  fiiend  of  WiUiam 
de  Longchamp,  bishop  of  Ely,  to  whom  he  wrote  a  letter 
of  consolation  on  his  disgrace,§  in  which  he  predicts  his 
restoration  to  his  dignities  on  the  return  of  the  king.  His 
attaehment  to  this  prelate  was  perhaps  the  cause  of  some 
of  his  own  misfortunes ;  for  we  find  him  at  this  time  ex- 
posed to  the  attacks  of  many  enemies,  who  at  length,  by 
accusations  which  are  now  no  longer  known,  caused  him 
to  be  deprived  of  his  dignity  of  archdeacon  of  Bath.  In 
the  following  letter||  to  two  friends  at  court,  he  laments  the 
treatment  which  he  had  experienced  on  this  occasion,  and 
compares  with  his  present  disgrace  the  favour  he  had 
enjoyed  in  the  preceding  reign. 

*  See  Hist.  lit.  de  Fr.  XV.  p.  343. 

t  Hist.  W.  Thorn,  ap.  Decern  Scriptores,  ool.  1821. 

X  Genrai.  Dorob.  Hist  coL  1498. 

%  Ep.  IzzxTii. 

II  Ep.  cxlix. 


Died  after  1198.]      pbtbr  op  blois.  3^ 

Ab  amaritndine  anima  itteae  et  ab  mcoDsolabiU  dolore  cordis  mei  totas  ab- 
•orbeor,  et  utmam  ornnea  cataract»  capitis  mei  floant  in  fletnm.  Utinam 
maiiina  pan  cerebri  atqae  maxillamm  totias  miseii  corporis  mei  liquescat 
in  lachrymaa,  at  possim  flere  et  plangere,  qnod  videre  non  possum^  A  rege 
Henrico  Tocatns  in  Angliam,  et  ab  eo  atqae  filiis  ejus  ditatus  largitioDibus 
efiosisi  nee  non  ab  archiepiscopis  et  episcopis  et  oniyersis  magnatibos  terrae 
omni  veneratione  nsqae  ad  malitiam  hnjas  temporis  exaltatas,  nanc  occasione 
qoammdam  littenuram,  qnse  et  per  tadtamitatem  Teritatis  et  perexpreasioneni 
fidsitatiB  obtent»  sont  a  domino  papa,  cradellBsime  drcamvento  toto  popnlo 
et  clero  tantae  dvitatis,  quorum  curia  et  custodia  mihi  commtssa  est,  senex  et 
emeritus  a  juvene,  simplex  et  ▼aletudinarius  ab  ambitioso,  mansuetus  et  inno- 
oens  a  Yerrato,  et  at  tempermtias  loqoar,  taipi  crimine  diffamatus  ab  omni 
honore  archidikoonatas  mei  violenter  expellor.  Porro  lator  prasentium  tra- 
goediam  istam  vobis  apertius  explanabit:  singultuosus  enim  dolor  os  meum 
syncopis  et  \eiwoBvfiia  impediens,  me  loqui  aut  scribere  non  permittit.  Da* 
tus  Bom  per  astatiam  malignantis  in  opprobrium  et  contemptum,  nisi  miseria 
mea  yestram  excitet  misericordiam,  et  passiones  mese  yestrae  compassionis 
affectum  proyocayerint.  Miseremini  mei  saltem  yos  amici  mei,  quos  etsi 
meritorum  meonim  exigentia  mihi  amicos  non  fecit,  tamen  misenun  hone 
amare  compellat  pia  oompassio,  qun  yenire  frequenter  in  oontractum  amicitis 
consueyit.  Nulli,  nisi  yobis  duobns,  in  curia  scribo:  unicam  enim  post 
Deum  in  yobis  spei  me«  ancboram  fixi ;  nee  sum  immemor  yerbi  quod  yeri- 
tas  in  Eyangelio  dicit :  Super  quacumque  re  dno  ex  yobis  consenserint  super 
terram,  fiet  illis.    Ethnicas  etiam  dieit, 

Non  caret  effectu  quod  yoluere  duo. 

Disgusted  with  his  treatment  in  England,  Peter  of  Blois 
was  on  the  point  of  leaving  his  adopted  country  and  re- 
turning to  France,  when  he  was  made  archdeacon  of 
London  by  Gilbert  Foliot.  The  revenues  and  power  of 
the  archdeaconry  of  London  being  then  very  small,  the 
bishop  exerted  himself  successfully  to  obtain  from  the 
pope  the  same  privileges  as  those  enjoyed  by  the  other 
archdeacons,  and  he  also  gave  Peter  the  deanery  of 
Wolverhampton ;  but  this  he  soon  resigned  on  account 
of  the  immoral  conduct  of  the  canons.*  We  know  nothing 
of  his  subsequent  life,  but  he  is  generally  supposed  to 
have  died  soon  after  1198.  f 

*  Epp.  cli.  dii. 

t  In  the  Close  RoU  of  14tli  John  (A.D.  1212)  is  the  following  entry 
relating  to  the  ezecaton  of  Peter  of  Blois,  but  it  does  not  appear  how  long 

VOL.  II.  2    B 


S70  PETBB  OP  BLOI8.      [DUd  dfier  1198* 

The  most  important  of  the  writings  of  Peter  of  Blois 
are  his  letters^  written  in  good  Latin^  and  collected  to* 
gether  at  the  express  desire  of  King  Henry  11.  They 
are  full  of  interesting  notices  relating  to  the  history  and 
to  the  manners  of  his  times.  In  them  he  appears  per- 
sonally as  a  man  of  irritable  temper^  violent  in  bis 
resentments^  and  vain  of  his  own  talents.  We  see^ 
evidently,  that  it  was  his  ambition  to  be  an  universal 
scholar ;  he  prides  himself  on  his  facility  and  rapidity  in 
composition  and  on  the  varied  character  of  his  reading, 
and  he  sneers  at  others  for  passing  their  lives  in  rumi- 
nating on  one  branch  of  science.  *  In  a  letter  to  a  friend 
who  bore  the  same  name  as  himself,  and  whom  he 
congratulates  on  this  coincidence,  he  boasts  of  the  popu- 
larity and  durability  of  his  writings,  which,  he  says,  would 
outlive  the  effects  of  flood  or  fire,  and  would  neither  be 
destroyed  by  sudden  ruin  or  by  the  slow  effects  of  time,  f 
We  learn  from  his  letters  that  in  his  youth  he  had  addicted 
himself  to  literature  of  a  lighter  character,  and  had  com- 
posed love-songs,  which,  however,  he  had  relinquished  for 
more  serious  occupations  on  the  approach  of  manhood.]: 
He  rejoices  in  having  converted  his  brother  William  from 

he  had  then  heen  dead.  Rex  Brieno  de  Insulis,  &c.  Pnecipimas  tihi  quod, 
sine  dilatione  hahere  permittaa  ezecntoribna  magistri  Petri  Blesenais  quondnm 
archidiaooDi  London,  plenam  et  Ubenm  dispoaitiottem  rernm  et  catallonun 
que  haboit  et  habere  debet  in  balliva  tua.  Testo  domino  P.  Wint.  epiacopo 
apnd  Torrim  London,  xz,  die  Mali. — It  appears  from  the  Close  Roll  of  the 
9th  John  (A.D.  1308)  tl^at  Peter  of  Bloisi  canon  of  Ripon,  had  had  his 
l^oods  seized  in  the  time  of  the  interdict ;  but  this  may  haye  been  another 
person,  as  we  liave  already  heard  of  one  other  Peter  of  Blois  in  this  age. 

•  See  £p.  xliii. 

t  Nostra  etiam  scriptai  qnss  se  diilhndant  et  pnblicant  circamquaqne,  nee 
innndatio,  nee  incendium,  nee  ruina,  nee  multiplex  sseculomm  ezcorsna 
poteift  abolere.    Ep.  IzxTiL 

I  Ego  qnidem  nugis  et  cantibns  venereis  qnandoque  operam  dedi,  sed  per 
gMitfam  ejus  qui  me  segregavit  ab  utero  matrismese  rejed  hsec  omnia  a  primo 
limine  juventntis.    Ep.  IxxW. 


Died  after  1198.]      pbtsr  of  bloisu  371 

these  vain  studies;"*^  and  nrgea  the  friend  and  name- 
sake to  whom  we  hare  just  alluded  to  follow  his  example, 
and  abstain  from  frivolous  writings  and  jests^  {ab^tmere  a 
ludicria  et  scurrUibus^)  and  the  ^^  fabulous  comments  of  the 
Gentiles/^  —  **  What,'"  he  says,  "  have  ygu  to  do  with 
these  false  vanities  and  follies  ?  What  concern  have  you, 
who  ought  to  be  an  organ  of  truth,  with  the  fabulous  loves 
of  the  gods  of  the  Gentiles  ?  '^t  ^^  You  have  spent  your 
days  until  old  age  in  the  fables  of  the  Gentiles,  in  the 
studies  of  the  philosophers,  and  finally  in  civil  law,  and, 
contrary  to  the  wishes  of  all  who  loved  you,  you  have 
endangered  your  soul  by  avoiding  the  sacred  page  of  theo- 
^^Sy"t  Yet  at  other  times  he  speaks  of  his  own  love  for 
the  writers  of  antiquity;  and  he  ends  a  letter  to  his 
nephew  full  of  complaints  on  the  vanities  of  the  world, 
with  a  request  that  he  would  send  him  the  songs  and  play- 
ful pieces  which  he  had  composed  in  his  youth  at  Tours, 
in  order  that  he  might  himself  make  transcripts  of  them.§ 
In  another  letter  we  learn  that  a  monk  named  G.  d'Aunai 
had  complained  to  him  of  being  exposed  to  and  tormented 

• 

*  Illnd  nobile  iogenram  fratris  me&  magvtri  Gnillelmi,  qnandoqae  in 
scribendis  comoediiB  et  tragoediit  quadam  oecnpatione  servili  degenenns, 
salutaribus  monitis  ab  ilia  peremptoria  iranitate  retraxi :  qui  in  breri  pne- 
eminens  in  exercitio  doctrinae  ceelastia  frnctnosa  prndicationiB  instantia  per- 
diti  jactnram  temporis  pleniBsime  reatanravit.  2k,  I  haYO  printed  one  of 
the  *'  Comedies"  of  William  of  Blois.  the  Alda,  in  my  ''Selection  of  Latin 
Stories,*' p.  192. 

t  Te  quidem  in  sammos  eminentlK  titolos  scientia  scholaram  exhilarat : 
comque  debuisses  aliis  esse  Tirtutam  fonna  et  specnlnm  honestatis,  per  scnr- 
riles  nugas  et  fabulosa  commenta  gentiliom  faetos  es  multts  iaqaeos  in 
minam.  Quid  tibi  ad  yanitates  et  insanias  (alsas  ?  Quid  tibi  ad  deorum 
gentilinm  fabolosos  amores,  qui  debneras  ease  organnm  veritatis  ?  Ep.  Ixxri. 

t  In  fabolis  paganonun,  in  philosophornm  'studiis,  tandepi  in  jnre  cirili 
dies  tuos  usque  in  senium  ezpendisti,  et  contra  omnium  te  diligentium 
Toluntatem  sacram  theologise  paginam  damnabiliter  horruisti.  lb. 

§  Mitte  mihi  Tersus  et  ludicra  quae  feci  Turonis :  et  scias»  cum  apud  um 
transcripta  fuerint,  eadem  sine  dilatione  aliqua  rehabebis.    Ep.  xii. 

2  b2 


^ 


372  PETER  OF  BLOI8.      {Died  after  1198. 

by  the  temptations  of  the  fleshy  and  at  ihe  same  time  had 
asked  for  copies  of  some  of  the  lighter  compositions  of 
his  youth  to  amuse  his  leisure  hours.  Peter  of  Blois,  in 
reply,  represents  to  him  that  such  writings  would  only  in- 
crease the  temptations  of  which  he  complained^  and,  in- 
stead of  them,  sends  him  a  pious  song,  the  work  of  his 
more  mature  pen,*  which  is  almost  the  only  specimen 
remaining  of  his  compositions  of  this  class.  It  is  long 
and  dull,  commencing  thus : — 

CantiietM  de  hteta  eamii  et  ipirittu. 

OUm  mititeTeram 

pompis  hiyus  Bscnli, 
qoibus  flores  obtali 

mete  jnyentiitis. 
Pedem  tamea  retoli 
Circa  Titae  ▼esperaniy 
Nunc  dataros  operam 
militise  Tirtutii. 

This  poem  was  written  in  1193,  and  contains  a  series  of 
reflections,  arising  out  of  the  misfortunes  of  king  Richard 
on  his  return  from  the  Holy  Land.  In  the  body  of  the 
poem  he  says — 

Quia  aqQam  tao  capiti, 

qnii  dabR  tibi  laciTHias, 
Ut  landea  teipM  indyti 

fraudesque  duels  eiprimas  ? 

In  regionea  ultimai 
Plancta  diacnrrat  anzio 

proditiOy 
Nostrique  regis  captio, 

qiue  tot  aflligit  animaa. 

And  after  another  stanza  on  the  same  subject,  he  con- 
tinues,— 


*  Quod  autem  amatoria  jnTentatis  et  adolescentis  nostrB  ludicra  poatulaa 
ad  solatium  tcdiorum,  oonsiliosum  non  arbitror»  cum  talia  tentationes  ezcitare' 
solaant  et  fovere.     Omissis  ergo  lasdrioribus  cantilenis,  panca  quae  maturiore 
stylo  oedni  tibi  mitto,  si  te  forte  relerent  a  tiedio  et  Kdificeot  ad  salutem. 
Ep.  ItU. 


Died  (ffter  1198.]      pbtbr  of  blois.  373 

Flos  reg^QiDy  ducom,  procenuii, 
Iter  qaod  erat  libemm 

sensit  inextricabile. 
Dam  inddit  in  Cerbenim, 

qui  flMsile 

detezit  cor  ignobile, 

▼as  Deo  detestabiley 
Vm  scelenun. 
Dam  cradfigit  itemm 

Christam  in  Christi  pagile. 
Judas  Christam  distrazerat, 

doz  regem  vendit  AogliK» 
Sed  crimen  hoc  exaggerat 

idolatra  pecuniae. 

Nam  impie 
Fkcem  com  rege  finxerat,  • 

Dum  ei  rez  improperat» 
Quod  fugerat, 

rdicta  cradf  ade» 

oedens  in  partem  Syriae. 

No  other  documents  throw  so  much  light  on  the 
literary  jealousies  and  feuds  of  the  latter  half  of  the 
twelfth  century,  as  the  letters  of  Peter  of  Blois,  who  him- 
self appears  to  have  been  by  no  means  free  from  them.  In 
one  instance,  while  he  was  attached  to  the  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  a  professor  of  grammar  at  Beauvais  in 
Picardy,  named  Ralph,  wrote  him  a  letter  attacking  the 
manners  and  studies  of  the  clergy  who  lived  in  the  courts 
of  princes  and  prelates.  In  his  reply,  Peter  of  Blois  gives 
an  interesting  character  of  the  learned  men  dependent  on 
the  archbishop: — ^'^ There  are,''  he  says,  ^^in  the  house 
of  my  lord  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  men  deeply 
versed  in  literature,  among  whom  is  found  all  rectitude  of 
justice,  all  prudence  of  foresight,  every  form  of  learning. 
These,  after  prayers  and  before  eating,  exercise  themselves 
assiduously  in  the  reading,  arguing,  and  deciding  of  causes. 
All  the  knotty  questions  of  the  kingdom  are  referred  to 
us;  which  being  propounded  among  our  fellows  in  the 
common  auditory,  each  in  his  turn  without  strife  or  con- 
tention sharpens  his  mind  to  speak  well,  and  puts  forth 


374  PBTSR  OF  BLOiB.      [Died  after  1198. 

with  his  cunning  whatever  appears  to  him  most  advisa- 
ble and  profitable-*'*  In  revenge  for  the  too  firee  obser- 
vations of  his  correspondent;  he  sneers  at  the  narrow 
compass  of  his  grammar  studies.  ^'  You  have  remained 
with  the  ass  in  the  mire  of  a  very  dull  intelligence.  Pris- 
cian  and  TuUy,  Lucan  and  Persius,  these  are  your  gods. 
I  fear  lest  when  you  die  it  may  be  said  to  you  in  reproach. 
Where  are  your  gods  in  whom  you  have  put  your  trust  T^'f 
The  chief  fault  in  the  style  of  Peter  of  Blois  is  an 
affectation  of  far-fetched  comparisons  and  allegories  (which 
was  a  common  failing  in  the  writers  of  his  day)  and  the 
heaping  together  of  a  multiplicity  of  citations  from  ancient 
authors^  for  which  he  was  remarkable  even  among  his 
contemporaries.  His  letters  are  sometimes  filled  with 
verses  from  the  Latin  poets.  In  one,^  he  defends  him- 
self at  some  length  against  a\;ritic  who  had  charged  him 
with  this  latter  fault ;  and  in  the  following  lines,  which 
are  extracted  from  the  letter  alluded  to,  he  quotes  Terence 
once  and  Horace  twice. 

Arguit  «mnluBy  et  temeiitati  adscribit,  quod  literas  meas  passim  et  vane 
^speraas  in  xtmxm  colligo  :  quod  formam  dictandi  pneacribo  simplicibiu,  quod 
public»  utilitati  rnunns  devoti  laboiia  et  offidum  charitatii  impendo.  Ces- 
aet  aemulus  a  Terbomm  injuriia :  nam  ai  pergit  dicerc  quae  Tult,  audiet  qxm 
non  Tult.    Flenus  sum  rimarum, 

hac  atque  iliac  perflno. 

*  In  domo  domini  mei  Cantuariensis  archiepiscopi  viri  litentisaimi  sunty 
apud  quos  inyenitur  omnia  rectitudo  justitiae,  omnia  cautela  providentiie, 
omnis  forma  doctrinie.  Isti  post  orationem,  et  ante  comestionem,  in  lectione, 
in  dispntatione,  in  causarum  decisione,  jugiter  se  ezerceant.  Omnes  quaes» 
tiones  regni  nodosae  referuntur  ad  nos ;  quae  cum  inter  socios  nostros  in 
commune  auditorium  deducuntur,  imusquisque  secundum  ordinem  suum  sine 
lite  et  obtrectatione  ad  bene  dicendum  mentem  suum  acnit,  et  quod  ei  con- 
ailiosius  videtur  et  sanius  de  rena  subtiliore  producit.    Ep.  yi. 

f  Vos  in  coeno  crassioris  intelligentiae  cum  asino  remaoBistis.  Priscianua 
et  Tullius,  Lucanus  et  Persius,  isti  sunt  dii  yestri.  Vereor  no  in  extremae 
necessitatis  articulo  vobis  improperando  dicatur,  Ubi  sunt  dii  tui  in  quibus 
habebas  fiduciam  ?    lb. 

X  Ep.  xeii. 


Died qfier  l\9H.']      pbtbr  of  bloib.  375 

Qai  me  oommorit,  melios  non  tangere  clamo, 
Flebit,  et  insignis  toU  cantabitvr  urbe. 

Utinaiii  ezperiatar  inTidiu  meus  ingenii  sui  yiresi  ac  de  flotcuUs  sacri  eloquii 
compilatU,  simile  componat  opiuculum.  Si  tamen  hoc  attentaverit,  quod 
modo  leyiaaimmn  putat,  vereor  ne  multum  sudet,  frnstraque  laboret» 

Infelix  opeiia  gumma,  quia  ponere  totom 

Neaciet. 

Ladpere  quidem  poterit,  ted  ai  dot!  bominia  facnltatem,  ignomiaioae  et  infe- 
liciter  consammabit.  Quicquid  canea  oblatreDt,  qoicquid  grumiia&t  sues» 
ego  semper  semnlabor  acripta  Tetemm :  in  his  exit  occnpatio  mea ;  nee  me,  si 
potero,  sol  ni^qnam  inveoiet  otiosam.  Nos  quasi  nani  super  gigantum  hume- 
ros  sumus,  quorum  beneficio  longius  quam  ipst  specalamur,  dum  antiquorom 
tractatibus  iuhserentes  elegantiores  eorum  sententias,  quaayetustaa  abolererat,- 
hominumTe  neglectus,  quasi  jam  mortnos  in  quandam  novitatem  essentic 
snscitamus. 

In  the  following  brief  extract  from  another  letter^'i^  he 
quotes  Ovid^  Persius^  and  one  of  the  Epistles  of  Senec|y 
whom  he  speaks  of  as  the  wise  man :  it  is  an  interesting 
passage,  as  describing  the  extreme  attachment  he  felt 
towards  his  benefactor,  king  Henry  IL 

Sdo,  quia  eoa  qui  in  curia  domini  regit  morantur,  aut  potius  morinntnr, 
tpet  r^gisB  liberalitatia  frequenter  ezhilarat,  qute  quandoque  in  multot  magni- 
fioe  et  munifioe  ae  eflTundit.  Sperat  autem  unusquisque  sibi  erenturum» 
quod  Tidet  pluribut  aliia  ereniste.  Sub  istias  expectationit  dulcit  et  incerta 
tolatio  tttdiosa  delectant»  grana  levigantur,  amara  dulcescunt,  nostrique 
martyret  laboret,  quamvia  infirmi,  expentaa  etiam,  quamvia  avari,  non 
sentiunt. 

Sic,  ut  non  perdat,  non  oessat  perdere  lusor, 
Et  revocat  cupidas  alea  blanda  menus. 
Videntur  mihi  in  verbis  et  desideriis  ilium  Persii  Tersare  rersiculum. 
Jam  dabitur,  jam,  jam ;  donee  deceptus  et  ezspes, 
Nee  quicquam  ftmdo  suspirat  nummua  in  imo. 

Porro  jazta  Sapientem,  sera  est  in  fando  parsimonia.  Illud  in  curia  detesta- 
bile  est,  quia  qui  magis  diligunt  minus  diliguntur.  Imperiti  enim  et  omnino 
inutiles  elegantioribus  benefidis  ampllantur,  divitiae  accumulantur  divitibus  : 
nee  est  qui  respidat  ad  inopem  et  mendicum.  HelizKus  imp]ebat  vasa  yacua, 
et  plena  implentur,  ligna  in  syWas  et  aquae  in  maria  deferuntur.  Ego  sane 
dispendia  enormium  expensarum,  et  super  omnia  jacturam  perditi  temporis, 
deplorarem  :  nisi,  quia  maximum  laboris  mei  repute  fructum,  quod  nostrum 
principem  per  gratiam  Dei  et  suam  semper  habui  propitium,  mitem»affabilem, 
et  benignum.  Nunquam  porrexi  d  preoes,  quae  non  admiterit  Uberaliter : 
prseparationem  etiam  cordis  mei  in  pluribus  ejus  benignitas  quandoque  prse- 

*Ep.  xir. 


376  PETER  OF  BLOI8.      [Died  after    1198 

▼enit.  Diligebftin  ipsam,  et  diligOy  et  lemper  dOigam  ex  affecta :  nee  me 
diligat  Deus,  cum  ab  ipsios  dilectione  desistam.  Gratia  namqne  «jus  m« 
perpetno  vindicaTit  in  anum :  Buamqae  semper  erit,  si  quid  cogito,  si  quid 
scribo,  si  quid  sum,  si  quid  valeo,  ri  quid  possum.  Hinc  erat,  quod  quaodiu 
▼estra  usus  sum  comitiva,  quslibet  dies,  in  qua  domini  regis  alloquio  non 
fruebar,  mihi  tristis  et  nubila  yidebatur  dies ;  in  qua  vero  suo  me  dignabatur 
alloquio,  mibi  tota  tanquam  dies  imperialis  in  gaudio  ducebatur.  Confiden- 
tissime  dioo,  majoremque  partem  mundi  testem  babeo.  in  hac  parte  a  tem- 
pore Carol!  nullum  fuisse  principem  adeo  benignum,  prudentem,  largum,  ct 
strenuam* 

As  a  further  example  of  the  style  of  this  celebrated 
writer,  we  may  cite  the  following  picture  of  a  tempest  at 
sea^  written^  during  one  of  his  missions^  to  the  archbishop 
of  Canterbury.* 

Me  nuper  ad  obedientiam  Testne  jussionis  accinzeram,  jamque  lieentiatas 
et  accepts  Testra  benedlctionis  gratia  reoedam,  cum  propter  negotia  qusdam 
easualiter  tunc  emergentia  rerocastis  me,  ac  firmiter  injunxistis  ut  tos  fre- 
quentioribus  nuntiis  certiorarem  de  statu  meo  et  de  his  qjuse  mihi  in  via 
contingerent.  Descenderam  ad  mare  et  navem  ascenderam»  cumque  jam 
exposuissemus  vela  Tentis  et  vitam  pericnlis,  ecce  nix,  grando,  imber,  ac  spi- 
ritus  procellarum  coelos  obduxerunt  caligine,  atque  in  terribiles  aquarum 
montcs  maris  deformarere  planitiem.  Mirabiles  ermt  elationes  maris,  fluctus 
enim  asoendebant  in  ccelos,  et  descendebant  in  abyssos,  et  anima  mea  in  ipsis 
tabescebat.  Omnes  qui  in  naye  erant  moti  sunt  et  tnrbati  sunt  sicut  ebrius, 
et  onmis  sapientiaeorum  devorata  est.  Hie  qui  gubemaculo  pneerat  et  sede- 
bat  in  puppi,  abjeeta  arte  et  derelicta  sede,  navem  fortuito  commisit  erentni. 
Uniyersi  patiebantur  spiritnm  yertiginis,  spiritum  abominationis  et  nansese. 
Non  erat  qui  manus  aut  oculos  in  caelum  erigeret ;  non  erat  qui  ponrigeret 
Deo  preces,  qui  satisfactioni  aut  pcenitentiK  se  offenet.  Jacebant  omnes  des- 
tituti  officio  membrorum,  aut  animo  constemati,  et  £tcti  sunt  yelut  mortni. 
licet  autem  tunc  aestiyale  solstitium  ad  incrementum  diei  plurimumdenoctift 
spacio  reddisset,  nunquam  tamen  nox  aliqua  adAO  longa  yisa  est  mihi.  Nam 
a  meridie  nox  ista  iocepit,  qu«  tempus  alienum  sibi  quadam  tyrannide  pro- 
cellosa  usurpans  in  suas  tenebras  lucem  yertit  O  nox  damnatissima,  nee  in 
toto  anni  circulo  computanda,  noz  turbinis,  nox  irae,  nox  horroris  et  mortis. 

Besides  the  Epistles,  which  were  collected  into  a  large 
volume  by  the  author  at  the  request  of  Henry  II.,  and  his 
Sermons,  the  printed  edition  of  the  works  of  Peter  of 
Blois  contains  seventeen  tracts  or  opmcala^  none  of  them 
possessing  any  great  importance  at  the  present  day.  They 
are,— 

*  Ep,  lii. 


~1 


Died  after  1198.]       petbr  of  blois.  377 

1.  A  treatise  on  the  transfiguration  of  Christ. 

2.  Oh  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul. 

3.  A  Compendium  on  Job ;  he  composed  this  at  the 
king's  desire,  in  order  to  inspire  him  with  patience  under 
some  of  his  tribulations. 

4.  An  Exhortation  to  the  crusade,  entitled,  De  Jeroso^ 
lymitana  peregrinatione  accelerando. 

5.  A  treatise  entitled  Inatructiofideiy  which  is  considered 
to  be  of  doubtful  authenticity. 

6.  On  the  Sacramental  Confession. 

7.  On  Penitence. 

8.  De  Institutione  Ejriscqpi,  a  treatise  on  the  duties  of 
a  bishop,  addressed  to  John  de  Coutances,  who  was  ap- 
pointed to  the  see  of  Worcester  in  1196,  so  that  this  must« 
have  been  one  of  Peter's  latest  writings. 

9.  An  inyective  against  a  writer  who  made  an  attack 
upon  him. 

10«  A  tract,  *^  against  the  perfidy  of  the  Jews.'' 

11.  On  Christian  friendship  and  charity  towards  God 
and  our  neighbour. 

12.  On  the  utility  of  tribulations. 

13.  A  violent  satire  against  the  bishops  of  Aquitaine 
and  the  abuses  in  the  church  there,  entitled  Qtiales  sunt. 
The  writer  of  the  article  in  the  Histoire  Litt^raire  de 
France  believes  this  to  be  the  work  of  another  author. 

14.  A  fragment  of  an  Bpistola  aurea  de  silentio  servanda. 

15.  A  fragment  of  the  book  De prtBstigiis  fortune.  This 
work,  which  was  the  one  on  which  he  laboured  most,  was 
devoted  to  the  history  and  encomium  of  his  patron,  king 
Henry  II.*  and  is  mentioned  more  than  once  in  his  letters. 
It  unfortunately  appears  to  be  lost. 

16.  A  short  tract  on  the  division  of  the  sacred  writings 
and  writers. 

17*  A  treatise  on  the  Eucharist. 

*  See  Kp.  Izxvii. 


378  PfiTfift  OF  B1.0IS.       [Died  after  1198. 

A  few  tracts  by  this  writer,  not  printed  in  his  works, 
may  still  be  found  in  different  collections.  Dr.  Giles 
has  discovered  about  fifty  inedited  letters.  Leland,  in  his 
Collectanea,  has  given  some  extracts  from  lives  of  Wilfred 
and  Guthlac  attributed  to  Peter  of  Blois.  His  Dialogue 
between  King  Henry  and  the  abbot  of  Bonval  is  pre- 
served in  a  manuscript  in  the  archiepiscopal  library  at 
Lambeth,  No.  cv.  Other  tracts  are  of  more  doubtful 
authenticity.  The  p^re  Buss^,  in  his  edition  of  the  works 
of  Peter  of  Blois  (1600),  printed  under  his  name  the  Ser- 
mons of  Petrus  Comestor. 

The  name  of  Peter  of  Blois  has  also  been  placed  at  the 
head  of  a  continuation  of  the  history  of  Croyland  attri- 
.buted  to  Ingulf.  If,  as  seems  probable,  the  work  ascribed 
to  Ingulf  be  a  forgery,  the  continuation  must  share  in  the 
same  character ;  and  internal  evidence  appears  to  support 
us  in  looking  upon  the  latter  as  supposititious.  In  the 
first  place  it  is  not  probable  that  the  monks  of  Croyland 
should  have  applied  to  a  stranger  to  write  the  history  of 
their  house,  and  we  can  trace  no  connection  between  them 
and  Peter  of  Blois.  The  work  in  question  is  prefaced  by 
a  letter  from  Henry  de  Longchamp  (made  abbot  of  Croy- 
land in  1191)  to  Peter,  acquainting  him  with  the  desire 
of  his  monks  that  he  would  imdertake  to  continue  the 
history  of  Ingulf,  and  Peter's  reply  acquiescing  in  their 
wishes.  Neither  this  letter,  nor  the  book  itself,  exhibit 
any  of  the  pectdiarities  of  style  found  in  the  works  of 
Peter  of  Blois.  One  of  the  most  interesting  passages  in 
this  work  is  the  account  of  the  school  of  abbot  Joffrid  at 
Cambridge  in  the  early  part  of  the  twelfth  century,  where, 
as  the  writer  of  this  history  informs  us,  Joffirid  lectured 
on  the  writings  of  the  Arabian  philosopher  Averroes.  Now 
Averroes  himself  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of  the  same 
century,  and  died  at  Marocco  in  1198.  It  is  very  im- 
probable therefore  that  Peter  of  Blois  should  have  made 


Died  after  1198.]      pbtsb  op  blois.  '  379 

such  a  mistake  as  this  passage  implies  \  or  that  he  could 
himself  hare  been  acquainted  with  the  writings  or  even 
with  the  name  of  the  Arabian  philosopher* 

Incipiut  epifltole  Magistri  petri.  At  the  end,  EzpUciut  epittole  maglBtri 
petii  bleBensis  bstboniensis  archidyaooni.  fol.  Without  date  or  place, 
but  printed  at  BrosMli,  aboat  the  year  1480,  no  doubt  by;  one  of  the 
communities  of  Fratm  cfMimums  vita  established  in  or  near  that 
town. 

f  Petri  Blesends  diyimurn  ac  humanarG  litterar*  Tiri  admodfi  copiosissimi  in- 
signia opera  in  unCi  Tolumc  collecta  &  emendata  authore  J.  M.  doctore 
theologo  subsequeti  ordme  habentur.  Epistole.  Sermones.  Tractatns 
in  librum  Job.  Contra  perfidiam  iudeormn.  De  confessione.  De  ami* 
citia  Christiana.  %  Venundantnr  ab  Johanne  paruo  sub  lilio  aureo 
in  Tia  Jacobea.  Cum  priuilegio.  At  the  end,  ^  Petri  Blesensis  Batho- 
niesis  archidiaconi  Opera,  diuersis  in  locis  recoUecta,  multi8q3  medis 
purgata  Paris'  felici  auspido  finS  sumpsere :  opera  et  industria  magistri 
Andree  boucard  calcographi.  Impensis  autem  Johannis  petit  illius 
Tniuersitatis  biblippole  iurati.  Ex  die  zy.  Octobris.  m.cgccc.  ziz.  fol. 
The  editor's  name  was  Jacques  Merlin. 

Opera  Petri  Blesensis,  Bathoniensis  quondam  in  AngUa  archidiaconi,  et  apud 
Cantuariensem  archiepisoopum  canodlarii.  Ope  et  studio  Joannis 
Bussei  Noviomagi,  Sooietatis  Jesu  Theologi.    Moguntise,  cl9.  Is.  c.  4to. 

Hiis  edition  was  reprinted  in  ihe  twelfth  volume  of  the  Bibliotheca  Patrum 
of  Cologne. 

Paralipomena  Opusculorum  Petri  Bleseiyis,  et  Joannis  Trithemii,  aliorumque, 
nuper  in  typographeo  Moguntino  editornm,  a  Joanne  Busseo  Societatis 
Jesu  theologo  ....  Colonise  Agrippinie,  Anno  m.dc.xxiv.  8to.  It 
contains  the  tracts  De  Perfidia  Judseorum,  De  Amicitia  Christiana,  and 
De  Charitate  Dei  et  Proximi.  The  first  edition  of  this  supplement  to 
Buss^'s  edition  was  published  in  1608. 

Petri  Blesensis  Bathoniensis  in  Anglia  archidiaconi  Opera  omnia  ad  fidem 
manuscriptorum  codicum  emendata,  notis  et  variis  monumentis  illus- 
trata,  Editio  nova,  in  qua  nonnuHa  ejusdem  auctoris  opuscula  hactenus 
inedita  nunc  primum  prodeunt.  .  .  •  Parisiis,  m.dc.lzvii.  fol.  Edited 
by  Pierre  de  Gussanville. 

This  edition  was  reprinted  in  the  twenty-fourth  volume  of  the  Magna  Bib- 
.    liotheca  Patrum  of  Lyons,  pp.  911 — 1365. 

Rerum  Anglicarum  Scriptorum  Veterum  Tom.  I.  (Ed.  Gale)  Oxoniee, 
M.DC.LXXxiT.  fol.  pp.  108 — 130.  Petri  Blesensis  continuatio  ad 
Historiam  Ingulphi. 


360  GIRAl^DUS  CAMBRENSIS.        [JBom  1146. 


OIRALDUS  CAMBRENSIS. 

GiBALDUs  DE  Barri^  OF,  as  he  is  more  commonly 
entitled  from  the  country  of  which  he  was  a  native^ 
Giraldus  Cambrensis,  was  bom  about  the  year  1146.* 
He  was  the  fourth  son  of  William  de  Barri^  a  powerfdl 
Norman  baron^  and  by  the  maternal  side  he  was  near  of 
kin  to  the  princes  of  South  Wales  and  to  most  of  the 
powerful  families  of  the  principality.  His  taste  for  letters 
was  exhibited  when  very  young ;  he  tells  us  that  when 
a  child  he  used  to  amuse  himself  with  drawing  churches 
and  monasteries  in  the  sand,  that  his  father  called  him 
playfidly  his  little  bishop,  and  that  he  predicted  his  future 
progress  in  learning.  These  expectations,  however, 
seemed  to  have  little  prospect  of  being  fulfilled,  until  his 
uncle  David  FitzGterald,  bishop  of  St.  David's,  undertook 
his  education.  He  appears  to  have  remained  with  this 
prelate  until  he  had  reached  his  twentieth  year,  when  he 
repaired  to  Paris  to  pursue  the  higher  branches  of  study,t 
and,  after  having  attained  «  considerable  reputation  for 
literary  attainments,  he  lectured  there  on  rhetoric  and 
polite  literature. 

In  1172  Giraldus  returned  to  England  and  obtained 
preferment  in  the  church  there  and  in  Wales.  Ob- 
serving great  negligence  in  the  ecclesiastical  govern- 
ment in  this  latter  country,  he  obtained  from  Richard, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  in  1175,  a  commission  to  examine 
into  and  correct  these  abuses,  and  he  proceeded  in  a 
vigorous  and  resolute  manner  in  his  attempts  to  reform 

*  tlie  principal  materials  for  the  life  of  GHraldos  are  found  in  his  own 
work,  D€ffe$ti9  iuU,  of  which  Sir  Richard  Colt  Hoare  has  given  an  ahstract 
in  the  Introdnction  to  his  translation  of  the  Itinerary  of  Wales. 

t  De  Gestis,  lib.  i.  c.  3. 


Died  1223.]         oiraldus  cambrbnsis.  381 

the  morals  of  the  clergy,  especially  in  forcing  the  married 
priests,  who  appear  to  have  been  then  numerous,  to  sepa- 
rate from  their  wives  or  concubines.  The  archdeacon  of 
Brecknock  was  obstinate  in  resisting  the  will  of  the  doctor 
on  this  latter  point,  and,  having  been  very  negligent  of 
his  duties  in  other  respects,  he  was  deprived  of  his  arch- 
deaconry, which  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  bestowed 
on  Oiraldus,  as  a  mark  of  his  approbation  of  the  effective 
manner  in  which  he  had  executed  his  commission.  The 
rigour  with  which  Giraldus  executed  his  new  duties,  and 
his  boldness  in  asserting  the  rights  of  the  church,  led  him 
into  many  disputes  and  gained  him  not  a  few  enemies ; 
but  his  conduct  was  so  far  approved  by  the  chapter  of  St. 
David's,  that  on  the  death  of  the  bishop  in  1176,  they 
chose  him  to  succeed  in  that  see.* 

King  Henry  was  dissatisfied  with  the  choice  made  by 
the  canons,  and,  when  they  persisted  in  defending  it,  he 
threatened  angrily  to  seize  their  temporal  possessions. 
It  was  at  last  referred  by  the  king  to  the  judgment  of  the 
archbishop  and  bishops  of  his  province,  and  Giraldus 
himself  informs  us  that  the  king  stated  to  them  that  his 
only  objection  to  him  was  the  circumstance  of  his  being 
a  Welshman  and  nearly  related  to  the  Welsh  princes  and 
nobles.  He  said  that  the  pride  and  pretensions  of  the 
Welsh  would  be  increased  by  such  an  appointment, 
asserting  that  ^'it  was  neither  neeessary  nor  expedient  for 
the  king  or  the  archbishop,  that  too  upright  or  active  a 
man  should  be  bishop  of  St.  David's,  lest  either  the  crown 
of  England  or  the  see  of  Canterbury  should  receive  detri- 
ment.''t     Giraldus  and  the  canons  persisted  no  longer  in 

*  De  Gestifl,  lib.  i.  c.  3—9. 

t  Nee  regi  nee  archiepUcopo  opus  esse  ant  expe^itsoMf  nimig  probum  aat 
gtrenamn,  ne  Yd  Anglue  eorona  vel  Canti»  cathedra  detrimentnm  aentiat,  in 
ccclesiK  sancti  David  epiacopmn  esae.    De  GeatiSi  lib.  i.  c.  10,  p.  476. 


382  QIRALDUS  CAMBRBNSIS.  [jBor»1146. 

their  resistance  to  the  king's  will ;  but^  being  called  into 
the  royal  chamber  at  Winchester,  they  elected  the  person 
he  recommended  to  them,  Peter  de  Leia  prior  of  Wenlock. 

Giraldus,  disappointed  in  his  ambition,  retomed  to 
Paris,  and  devoted  himself  to  the  study  of  jmrisprudence, 
intending,  as  he  expresses  it,  '^  to  raise  up  the  walls  of  the 
laws  and  canons  on  the  foundation  of  arts  and  literature."* 
In  the  account  he  has  given  of  his  studies  at  this  period, 
he  speaks  with  pride  of  the  fame  he  acquired  by  his  elo- 
quent declamations  in  the  schools,  and  boasts  how  the 
crowded  audiences  of  doctors  and  scholars  were  never 
tired  in  listening  to  them,  charmed  by  the  sweetness  of  his 
voice,  the  beauty  of  his  language,  and  the  force  of  his 
arguments.f  In  II 7^  he  was  elected  public  professor  of 
canon  laws ;  but  he  refused  to  accept  this  honourable  office, 
and  soon  afterwards  returned  to  England,  taking  his  vay 
through  Flanders,  where  he  was  present  at  a  tournament 
held  by  the  count  Philip  in  the  city  of  Arras. 

On  reaching  England  he  paid  a  visit  to  Canterbury, 
where  he  was  hospitably  received  by  the  prior  and  monks 
of  Christ's  Church,  and  proceeded  thence  in  company  with 
a  party  of  pilgrims  to  London.  On  his  arrival  he  found 
the  bishop  of  Winchester  in  his  consistory  court  at 
Southwarky  hearing  a  cause  pleaded  between  the  sister 
of  Giraldus  and  her  husband,  who  had  sued  for  a  divorce, 
but  by  his  intermediation  they  were  reconciled,  and  the 
cause  dismissed.  On  his  return  to  Wales,  Giraldus  found 
that  the  bishop  of  St.  David's  had  quarrelled  with  his 
clergy,  and  that  he  had  quitted  his  episcopal  residence  to 

*  Super  artimn  et  literatur»  fandamentam  legum  et  canonom  parietes  in 
altam  erigere. 

t  Tanta  nempe  verbonim  dulcedine  fderant  et  deliniti,  at  dicentia  ab  ore 
tanqnam  penduli  et  auspeasi  longo  licet  eloquio  et  prolixo,  etc.  De  Gestis, 
lib.  il.  c.  I.  p.  477. 


Died  1223.]       oiraldus  gambrenbis.  383 

wait  in  an  English  convent  until  peace  should  be  restored 
to  his  diocese.  By  the  interest  of  the  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  Giraldus,  who  still  retained  his  archdeaconry 
of  Brecknock,  was  appointed  administrator  of  the  diocese 
in  the  absence  of  the  bishop ;  and  he  tells  us  that  he  ex- 
ecuted his  office  with  the  greatest  prudence  and  modera- 
tion. But  in  the  sequel  the  bishop  interfered  between 
Giraldus  and  the  clergy  of  St.  David's  so  violently  and 
injudiciously  that  the  former  resigned  his  office,  and 
threatened  to  carry  his  complaints  before  the  pope.  They 
were  however  at  last  reconciled  by  the  exertions  of  their 
common  friends.* 

Soon  after  these  events^  in  1184^  King  Henry,  visiting 
the  borders  of  Wales  to  repress  the  turbulence  of  the 
borderers^  heard  of  the  great  learning  of  Giraldus,  and 
invited  him  to  his  court.  He  was  subsequently  sent 
to  the  border  in  the  quality  of  a  pacificator,  and  was 
present  at  Hereford  at  the  conference  between  Rhys^ 
prince  of  South  Wales,  and  the  royal  commissioners, 
archbishop  Baldwin  and  Ranulph  de  Glanville.f  The 
same  year  he  accompanied  the  king  to  Normandy.  Henry 
was  so  well  satisfied  with  his  services  on  these  occa- 
sions that  he  appointed  him  his  chaplain^  and  made  him 
repeated  promises  of  high  preferment ;  which^  however, 
were  never  fulfilled,  for  he  still  expressed  himself  jealous 
of  him  as  a  native  Welshman  and  a  near  kinsman  of  the 
Welsh  princes.  He  was  shortly  afterwards  appointed 
preceptor  to  prince  John,  whom,  in  11 85^  he  accompanied 
into  Ireland  in  the  capacity  of  secretary.  During  his  stay 
there,  two  Irish  bishoprics  were  o£Pered  to  him,  but  be 
declined  them,  as  he  tells  us,  on  account  of  the  corruptions 

*  De  Gestifl»  lib.  ii.  c  5  to  7. 
t  De  QestU,  lib.  ii.  c.  8,  9. 


384  OTRALDUS  CAMBRENSI8.         [Bom  1146. 

and  disorders  which  Jie  observed  in  the  Irish  church.  In 
the  middle  of  Lent  1186^  he  delivered  a  public  oration  or 
sermon  before  the  council  in  Dublin,  in  which  he  spoke 
on  this  subject  with  great  freedom^  but  its  only  result 
was  to  establish  in  that  country  his  fame  as  an  eloquent 
preacher.* 

While  in  Ireland  Oiraldus  occupied  himself  diligently 
in  collecting  materials  for  a  description  of  the  country, 
and  he  remained  there  to  complete  his  collections  some 
time  after  the  departure  of  prince  John.  Soon  after  the 
Ekister  of  1186  he  returned  to  Wales,  and  he  devoted  the 
remainder  of  that  year  to  the  composition  of  his  Topogra- 
phy of  Ireland,  which  was  completed  in  1187«  This  book 
is  divided  into  three  parts  or  distinctions  (distinctiones),  a 
term  which  seems  to  have  been  fashionable  in  his  time^  as 
it  is  used  by  several  other  writers.  These  three  parts,  as 
soon  as  completed,  Giraldus  recited  before  a  public 
audience  of  the  university  of  Oxford,  on  three  successive 
days,  and  on  each  day  he  gave  a  sumptuous  feast ;  on  the 
first  he  entertained  the  poor  people  of  the  town,  on  the 
second  the  doctors  and  students  of  greatest  celebrity, 
and  on  the  third  the  other  scholars  and  the  burghers  and 
soldiers  of  the  place.  He  relates  his  doings  on  this  occasion 
with  much  self-complacency,  says  that  they  were  worthy 
of  the  classic  ages  of  the  poets  of  antiquity,  and  asserts  that 
nothing  like  them  had  ever  been  witnessed  in  England.f 

*  De  GkstiB,  lib.  iL  c.  14.  It  appears  that  one  of  hia  chai^ges  agamtt  the 
Irish  chnrch  was  that  it  had  had  no  martjrs ;  and  that  the  bishop  of  CasheQ, 
who  happened  to  be  present,  replied  that  this  was  true,  for  the  native  Irish 
were  too  pions  to  make  martyrs  of  their  clergy,  bat  that  a  people  had  now 
oome  to  settle  in  Ireland  who  not  only  knew  how  to  make  martyrs,  bnt  who 
put  their  knowledge  into  practice.    Topog.  Hibem.  distinct,  iii.  c.  33. 

t  Snmptnosaqnidem  res  et  nobilis,  quia  renoyata  sunt  quodammodo  auten- 
tica  et  antiqua  in  hoc  fiu;to  poetarum  tempore,  nee  rem  similem  in  Anglia 
factam  yd  prcsens  etas  vel  ulla  recolit  antiquitas.    De  Gestis,  lib.  ii.  c.  16. 


Died  1223.]        giraldus  cambrbnsis.  385 

The  fame  of  this  ostentatious  exhibition  increased  the 
celebrity  of  Giraldus,  and  he  continued  to  enjoy  the  royal 
favour.  When  in  the  latter  part  of  the  year  1187»  on 
receiving  intelligence  of  the  capture  of  Jerusalem  by 
Saladin,  king  Henry  proclaimed  a  new  crusade,  and  arch- 
bishop Baldwin  was  sent  to  preach  it  to  the  Welsh, 
he  was  accompanied  by* Giraldus,  who  represents  his 
own  eloquence  as  one  of  the  main  causes  of  their  suc- 
cess.* They  were  attended  by  Ranulph  de  Glanville, 
as  far  as  Hereford,  from  whence  the  archbishop  and 
the  archdeacon  proceeded  to  Radnor,  where  tbey  arrived 
on  Ash  Wednesday,  1188.t  Thence  they  passed  through 
Hay  and  Brecknock,  by  Lanthony,  to  Abergavenny  and 
Caerleon,  and  thence  to  Cardiff,  Llandaff,  Caermarthen, 
and  to  Haverfordwest»  Here  Giraldus  assures  us  that 
the  effects  of  his  own  eloquence  were  almost  miraculous, 
for,  although  the  only  languages  he  made  use  of  were 
Latin  and  French,  of  which  the  greater  portion  of  his  audi* 
tors  were  totally  ignorant,  yet  they  were  so  much  affected 
by  his  discourse  that  even  the  most  illiterate  of  the  mul- 
titude burst  into  tears,  and  they  hurried  in  crowds  to  take 
the  cross.;^  The  archbishop  afterwards  said  that  he  never 
saw  so  many  tears  shed  in  one  day  as  he  had  witnessed 
on  this  occasion  at  Haverford.§  The  missionaries,  after 
visiting  Pembroke,  proceeded  to  St.  David's,  and  thence 

*  The  account  of  thiB  expedition  is  given  in  the  book  De  Gestit,  lib.  ii.  o. 
17,  18,  and  in  the  Itinenuriiim  Cambria. 

f  Itiner.  Cambr.  lib.  1.  c.  1. 

X  Ubi  pro  mirando  et  quasi  pro  miracnlo  ducebatnr  a  mnltis,  qnod  ad  ver- 
bnm  Domini  ab  arehidiacono  probtam,  cum  tamen  lingua  Latina  et  Gallica 
loqueretuFf  non  minus  illi  qui  neatram  noTenmt  linguam,  qnam  alii,  ad 
lacrimarum  o^nentiam  moti  fuerant,  atque  etiam  ad  cmcis  signaculum  cater* 
yatim  accurremnt.  Itiner.  Cambr.  lib.  i.  c.  11.  Conf.  De  Grestis,  lib.  ii,  c.  18. 

§  Unde  et  archiepiscopus  plnries  in  illo  itinere  dicebat  nusquam  se  tot 
lacrimas  quantas  apud  Haverfordtam  viderat  nno  die  vidisse.  De  Gestis , 
lib.  ii.  c.  18. 

VOL.  II.  2  C 


386  QIRALDUS  OAIIBBBNSIS.        [BOTO  1146. 

through  Cardigan,  Caernarvon,  and  Bangor,  to  the  isle  of 
Anglesey,  and  then  returned  to  England  through  the  wilds 
of  Snowdon,  and  by  Rhuddlan  to  Chester,  from  whence 
they  proceeded  into  Powisland,  and  passed  along  the  bor- 
der through  Shrewsbury,  Wenlock,  and  Leominster  to 
Hereford,  the  point  firom  which  they  first  entered  Wales. 
Giraldus  informs  us  that  during  their  progress  they  en- 
listed for  the  crusade  about  three  thousand  Welshmen. 

In  1189,  Giraldus,  with  archbishop  Baldwin  and  Ra* 
nulph  de  GlanviUe,  accompanied  the  king  on  his  last 
expedition  into  France,*  and  the  archdeacon  appears  to 
have  been  present  at  Henry's  death  at  Fontevralt.  He 
was  immediately  sent  by  earl  Richard  to  England  with 
letters  to  the  grand  justiciary  (Ranulph  de  Glanville),  and 
from  thence  into  Wales  to  pacify  his  countrymen,  who 
had  shown  an  inclination  to  rebel  on  hearing  of  the  king's 
decease.  Giraldus  enjoyed  the  confidence  and  esteem  of 
the  new  king,  but  his  zeal  for  the  crusade  appears  to  have 
cooled,  for,  when  the  time  of  the  king's  departure  ap* 
proached,  he  and  the  bishop  of  St.  David's,  who  had  both 
taken  the  vow,  obtained  absolution  on  the  plea  of  age  and 
poverty ;  which  was  only  granted  on  the  condition  that 
they  should  repair  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  David's, 
and  assist  the  crusaders  with  all  the  means  in  their  power* 
When  king  Richard  left  England,  he  showed  the  estima- 
tion in  which  he  held  Giraldus,  by  appointing  him  a 
coadjutor  with  William  de  Longchamp  bishop  of  Ely  in 
the  administration  of  the  kingdom  during  his  absence. 
Giraldus  now  began  to  hope  that  the  high  preferment 
withheld  by  king  Henry  would  be  conferred  upon  him 
by  his  successor,  and  he  successively  refused  the  bishopric 
of  Bangor  in  1190,  and  that  of  Llandaff  in  1191,  fearing, 

*  De  Gestis,  lib.  ii.  c.  21. 


Died  1223.1         giraldus  cababrbnsis.  387 

as  it  appears,  that  these  might  stand  in  the  way  of  some^ 
thing  better..  But  he  was  again  disappointed  in  his  ex- 
pectations, and  in  disgust  he  determined  to  quit  the 
courts  and  indulge  his  taste  for  literary  retiretnent.  For 
this  purpose  he  had  prepared^  tO'  return  to  Paris ;  but, 
being  prevented  by  the  sudden  breaking  out  of  wai^  be- 
tween tiie  two  countries,  he  went  to  Lincoln  and  there 
devoted  himself  to  study  under  the  chancellor  of  that 
diocese,  William  du  Mont  CDe  MdnieJ,  an  eminent  scholar 
whom  he  had  known  ih  his  earlier  years  at  Paris.*  Du- 
ring his  i^esidence  at  Lincdln,  Giraldus  wrote  several  of 
his  books,  one  of  flie' first  of  which  was  his  life  of  Qeoflrey 
archbishop  of  York,  published  in  1193.  In  1 197  he  wrote 
the  work  entitled  Gemma  eccleBiasiica, 

In  1198,  Peter  de  L^ia  bishop  of  St  David's  died,  and 
a  new  prospect'  was  opened  to  Giraldus  of  obtaining  what 
appears  to  have  been  long  the  object  of  his  ambition — 
the  vacant  bishopric.  He  was  elected  by  the  chapter 
early  in  1199 ;  but  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  alleging 
the  same  reasons  as  had  formeriy  been  given  by  king 
Henry,  refused  to  accept'  the  nomination.  In  the  midst 
of  this  dispute  king  Richard  died,  and  his  successor  John, 
although  he  seemed  at  first  inclined  to  favour  the  choice 
of  the  canons,  allowed  himself  to  be  persuaded  by  the 
arguments  of  his  primatel  Giraldus  again  left  the  court 
in  vexation,  paid  a  visit  of  three  weeks  to  Ireland,  and 
then  repaired  to  St.  David's.  The  chapter,  compelled  to 
proceed  to  a  new  election,  again  chose  him  for  their  pastor. 
The  pertinacity  of  the  canons  involved  them  in  a  violent 
quarrel  with  the  king,  and  Giraldus  proceeded  to  Rome 
to  plead  their  cause  before  the  sovereign  pontiff.  He  ar- 
rived there  on  the  30th  of  November,  and  was  received 

"*  De  Gestis,  lib.  iii.  e.  3. 

2c2 


388  G1RALDU8  CAMBR£N8I8.        [Bom  1146. 

by  the  pope  with  marks  of  personal  esteem.  In  the  May 
of  the  year  1200^  being  appointed  administi^tor  of  the 
temporal  and  spiritual  concerns  of  the  church  of  St. 
David's  during  the  continuation  of  the  disputes,  he  re- 
visited his  native  land,  but  in  the  middle  of  Lent  1201  he 
was  again  at  Rome.  He  returned  to  England  in  the  sum- 
mer of  the  same  year,  and  was  occupied  with  litigationa 
at  home  until  the  second  of  November,  when  he  started 
a  third  time  for  Rome,  and  arrived  there  on  the  4th  of 
January,  1202.  On  the  15tii  of  April,  1203,  the  pope 
gave  his  definitive  sentence,  annulling  the  election  of 
Giraldus.  This  controversy  had  excited  much  contentious 
feeling  in  Wales ;  the  clergy  of  St.  David's,  supported  by 
the  princes  of  North  and  South  Wales,  treated  Giraldus 
as  their  bishop  elect,  and  he  seems  to  have  taken  that 
titie  himself,  which  exposed  him  to  the  anger  of  king 
John,  who  proclaimed  him  an  enemy  to  the  crown,  accused 
him  of  a  design  to  stir  up  the  Welsh  to  rebellion,  and 
seized  upon  his  lands.* 

In  the  August  of  1203,  Giraldus  returned  to  England, 
and  made  his  peace  with  the  court ;  and  on  the  Iptii  of 
November  Geoffrey  de  Henelawe  was  elected  bishop  of 
St.  David's.  Giraldus  resigned  his  archdeaconry  in  favour 
of  one  of  his  nephews,  retaining  his  other  preferments, 
for  he  was  a  canon  of  Hereford  and  rector  of  Chesterton 
in  Oxfordshire.  The  rest  of  his  life  vnis  spent  almost 
e;ntirely  in  writing  books,  and  in  correcting  those  which 
he  had  already  published.  In  1204  and  1205,  he  wrote 
the  Description  of  Wales,  the  Symbolum  Ekciorumj  the 
Speculum  duorumy  the  Invectiones^  the  legend  of  St. 
Remigius,  and  the  book  De  gestis  suis.  In  1215,  the  see 
of  St.  David^s,  the  source  of  all  his  troubles,  being  again 

^  Tht  account  of  this  controversy  is  given  at  some  length  in  the  work  De 
p€$ti9  iuis,  lib.  iii.  c.  4,  et  9eqq. 


Died  1223.]  giraldus  cambrenbis.  389 

TEcant,  was   offered  to   him,  but  under  circumstances 
<  which  made  him  unwilling  to  accept  it.     In  1218,  he 
wrote  his  dialogues  on  the  rights  of  the  church  of  St. 
'  David^s.     In  1220,  he  finished  two  of  his  most  important 
works,  the  treatise  De  Principis  Instructione  and  the 
*  Speculum  EcclesuBy  Biid  revised  a  second  edition  of  the 
dialogues  on  the   rights  of  the  church  of  St  David's. 
■From  a  docunlent  quoted  by  Tanner,  we  learn  that  in 
'1225  the  church  of  Chesterton  in  Oxfordshire  was  vacant 
^^  by  the  death  of  master  G.  de  Barri,"  so  that  he  died 
either  in  that  year  or  towards  the  end  of  the  year  pre- 
ceding.    He  was  buried  in  the  cathedral  of  St.  David's, 
where  his  monument  is  still  preserved. 

The  works  of  Giraldus  Cambrensis  are  numerous,  and 
they  are  all  interesting  for  the  light  they  throw  on  the 
historical  events  and  on  the  political  and  religious  condi- 
tion of  the  age  in  which  he  lived.  They  are  not  the  me- 
ditations of  the  soUtary  student,  or  the  controversial  dis- 
quisitions of  the  theologian ;  but  they  reflect  faithfully  the 
thoughts  and  opinions  of  a  man  busy  in  all  the  intrigues 
and  convulsions  of  the  world  around  him,  and  are  filled 
with  minute  and  private  anecdotes  and  stories  of  the 
people  among  whom  he  lived  and  with  whom  he  acted. 
His  style,  though  less  ostentatiously  learned  than  that 
of  Peter  of  Blois,  is  that  of  a  scholar  and  a  man  of  exten- 
sive reading.  His  descriptions  are  generally  marked  by  a 
clearness  of  narrative  and  a  distinctness  of  conceptior 
which  are  not  often  found  among  the  medieval  writers; 
and,  when  he  dwells  on  his  own  wrongs,  or  enters  upon 
his  own  enmities,  his  style  is  distinguished  by  a  warmth 
of  eloquence  which  is  peculiar  to  him.  Though  a  bitter 
enemy  of  the  monks,  more  particularly  of  the  Cistercian 
order,  and  unsparing  in  his  remarks  on  the  avarice  and 
corruption  of  the  court  of  Rome,  he  appears  throughout 


390  6IBALDVS  CAMBRBNBiS.  [Bom  1146. 

his  writings  credulous  and  superstitious.  He  occupies 
no  small  portion  of  the  narratiye  of  his  own  actions  in 
recounting  his  dreams^  and  his  descriptions  of  Wales  and 
Ireland  are  thickly  interspersed,  not  only  with  monkish  le- 
gends, but  with  fairy  tales,  which  renders  him  a  valuable 
authority  for  the  earlier  history  of  our  popular  mythology. 
The  account  of  the  beavers  which  then  frequented  the 
river  Tivy,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Cardigan,  taken  from 
the  Itinerary  of  Wales,  may  be  given  as  a  fair  spedmen 
of  his  descriptive  language. 

Inter  muTersos  namquie  Cambrin  sea  etiam  Loegrie  flvvios,  wins  hie 
castores  habet.  In  Albania  qnippe,  at  fertar,  flavio  similiter  onico  habentar, 
sed  ran.  De  cujos  bestin  natora,  qaaliter  a  sjlyis  ad  aquas  materiam 
Yehanti  quanto  artifioio  ez  attracta  materia  mediip  in  flnptibns  monimenta 
connectant,  quam  defeniionis  artem  contra  yenatores  in  ooiadente  pretend- 
ant,  qoam  in  oriente,  de  caudis  qaoqae  piseeis  pauca  interserere  non  inutile 
repntavi. 

Castores  enim,  at  castra  sibi  in  mediis  fluvUs  constmant,  soi  generis  lern» 
pro  rheda  ateotes,  a  silvis  ad  aquas  lignea  robora  miro  yectune  modo  oon- 
trahunt  et  conducnnt.  Qoidam  enim  ez  his  nature  imperio  senrire  parati, 
ligna  ab  aliis  precisa  Tentrique  supine  impoaita  qnatuor  pedibus  oom- 
plectentes,  lignoqne  in  ore  ez  transyerso  locato,  deotibus  ab  aliis  bine  inde 
cohKrentibuSi  retrogpradeque  trahentibus,  non  absque  intuentium  admiratione 
simul  cum  oneribos  attrafauntnr.  Simili  quoque  nature  artificio  in  scroblum 
purgatione,  quas  sibi  pedibos  in  terram  fodiendo  scalpendoqne  Qosfonnant, 
Qielote  utuntar.  In  aliquo  yero  profundissimo  fluyii  angulo  et  pacifico,  in 
castrorum  constructione  tanto  artificio  ligna  connectunt,  ut  ne  aque  stilla 
de  ikdli  penetrando  subintret,  nee  procelle  yis  labefactando  concutiat,  nee 
yiolentiam  quamlibet  prster  humanam,  et  banc  ferro  munitam,  reformident. 
Ez  salicum  etiam  ramis  in  castrorum  constructione  ligna  connectunt, 
soliisque  yariis  in  altam  quantum  aqua  ezcrescere  solet,  et  ultra  ostiis  in- 
terius  a  solio  in  solium  aptatis,  machinam  dJstinguunt,  at  juzta  fluminis 
incrementa  fluctuantes  undas  (cum  yoluerint)  ab  alto  despioere  valeant.  ESz 
salicibus  autem,  ut  per  annos  crescendo  salicum  saltus,  hispidum  ezteriua 

silyescat  arbustum  tota  interius  arte  latente Notandum  quoque  quod 

castores  caudaa  lud>ent  latas,  et  son  longas,  in  modum  palme  human»  spissaa, 
quibus  tanquam  pro  remigio  natando  fonguntur,  cumque  totum  corpus  reli- 
quum  pilosum  habeant,  banc  partem  omni  pilositate  carentem  in  morem 
phoce  marine  planam  habent  et  leyigatam ;  unde  et  in  Germania  Arctoisqua 
regionibuSf  ubi  abundant  bwtrs,  caudis  hujusmodi,  plf^ium  ut  aiui^t  naturam 
tarn  sapore  quam  colore  sortitis,  yiri  etiam  magni  et  religiosi  jejunionun  tem*- 


Died  1223.]         giraldus  cambbbnsis.  891 

pore  pro  pisee  Yesemitar.  Vidatiir  tamea,  quod,  jarig  in  toto  quoad  totnm» 
hoc  ia  parte  quoad  partem,  nee  pars  a  toto  tanta  generis  diversitate  distare 
cottsuevit. 

As  a  historian^  Giraldus  manifests  continually  the  strong 
bias  of  his  personal  feelings ;  and  his  praise  and  dispraise^ 
expressed  with  equal  warmth,  must  be  taken  with  caution. 
His  resentment  against  king  Henry  II.  and  his  family 
appears  constantly  in  his  later  writings,  and  this  feeling 
seems  to  have  become  more  intense  as  he  advanced  in  years. 
In  one  of  the  works  of  his  old  age,  the  treatise  De  institu- 
tione  principisy  he  speaks  as  follows  of  the  monarch  whom 
Peter  of  Blois  and  others  regarded  as  a  pattern  of  wisdom 
and  magnanimity. 

In  primis  etenim  FraDconim  reginam  Alienoram  domino  suo  Ludo^ico 
Francomm  regi,  sicut  satis  est  notam,  indebite  subtraxit,  sibique  de  facto 
conjugal!  vincnlo  copalayit :  ex  qua  et  prolem  pradictam  processu  temporis 
omine  infausto  suscepit,  per  quam,  ut  dudmus,  ob  boc  et  alia  delicta  gra- 
vissimai  quorum  qutedam  subsequenter  enumerabimusi  eum  Dominus,  quia 
▼ezatis  dabit  intellectum,  humiliari  voluit  et  ad  pceoitentiam  revocari,  vel  si 
obstinatus  lUTentus  fuerit,  prole  propria  patrem  i^ecti  et  came  camifioem 
crucian.  Fuerat  enim  et  ab  initio  et  usque  ad  finem  nobilitatis  oppressor,  jus 
et  injuriam  fasque  nefSasque  pro  comanodo  pensans,  justitise  venditor  et 
dilator,  verbo  yarius  et  versutus,  nee  solum  terbi  Temm  etiam  fidei  trans- 
gressor et  sacramenti ;  adulter  publieus,  Deoque  ingratus  et  indevotus,  eccle- 
sie  malleus  et  filius  in  pemiciem  natus:  unde  et  ad  oumulum  quoque 
nequitis  perfidisque,  sicut  pater  ejusdem  in  beatum  Gerardum  Sagiensem 
antistitem  suo  tempore  crudiliter  desiit,  sic  et  iste  longeque  crudelius  sua 
commaculans  tempora,  in  gloriosum  martyrem  nostrum  Thomam  Can- 
tuariensem  arcbiprnsulem,  in  malo  patrizans,  dessevire  praesampdt. 

We  have  some  remains  of  the  Latin  poetry  of  Giraldus^ 
which  consisted  chiefly  of  epigrams  and  short  pieces. 
The  earliest  of  his  compositions  was  a  treatise  on  chrono* 
graphy  and  cosmography  in  Latin  elegiacs,  which  appears 
to  be  lost.  The  second  part  of  the  Symbolum  electorum^  a 
collection  of  miscellaneous  pieces,  dedicated  to  king  Richard^ 
is  in  Latin  verse.  In  the  following  lines  addressed  to  Henry 
II.,  extracted  from  this  book,  we  observe  none  of  the 


892  GIRALDUS  OAltfBRKNSIfl.  [Bom  1146. 

bitterness  of  feeling  which  characterises  the  passage  in 
prose  quoted  above.  Our  extract  is  taken  from  a  manu- 
script in  Trinity  College,  Cambridge^  marked  0. 10. 16. 

Ad  An^hrmm  r^gtm  Henrieum  ieemndum^ 

Mens  tibi  tcribendo  desudat,  oorpns  agendo, 

Certant  obfleqtuis  iUud  et  iHa  soif  • 
Sed  neqne  diacanoB  Tasioa  neqne  oaimina  cnnar 

Hinc  opus  hinc  operam  eora  laborqne  pent. 
Res  pereont  abenntqae  dies,  tn  damna  diemm 

Non  reparas  qnanqnam  res  reparare  qneas. 
Sed  quod  nee  remm  nee  te  jaotoia  diemm 

Movet,  me  gravins  hoc  mo?et  ac  remofet. 
Snnrint  tibi  totas  homo,  cui  sola  laboris 

Cruz  pretiiun  liiteor,  pmnia  magna  cnioemu 
Serriift  ergo  cmd  cruoe  vir  signatus,  eiqne 

Reddere  qui  solus  resqne  diesqne  potest. 
CiQiis  nee  clandi  scit  janna  nee  reserari 

Jndigne,  Incri  nescia  sed  meriti. 
Cai  nihil  eztorsit  ant  improbos  ant  simulatorr 

Cni  virtoB  minime  vel  tacitnma  vacat. 
Coi  neque  palpo  procax  nee  vir  Ungaosos  adhnsit. 

Cm  neque  vir  duplex  displicuisse  nequit. 
Qui  me  detrazit  yirtuti  Ihror»  apud  quern 

Quilibet  ex  merito  statre  caditye  suo. 
Qui  meritum  pensat,  qui  dignis  digna  rependit, 

Librans  et  moderans  pondere  cuncta  tuo. 
Qui  cum  spondet  adest,  qui  cum  largitur  abunde, 

Dat  sine  defectu  rem,  sine  nocte  diem. 

The  following  epigrams,  from  the  same  book  and  manu* 
script,  and  equally  inedited,  will  serve  as  specimens  of 
the  Latin  poetry  both  of  Giraldus  and  of  bis  friend  Walter 
Mapes : — 

JDe  baculo  cui  empui  natura  curvaoerai,  pedem  an  amutverai,  Mtqn^ 

trmumU$mi, 
Versibus  omatum  bis  senis  acdpe  munuSi 

Et  de  tot  gemmis  elege,  Mqpe,  duos. 
Dat  camerum  natura  caput,  finemque  fiibrilts ; 

Ars  facit  armatum,  fabrica  fessa  levat. 
Ars  nodum,  natura  modum,  firmans  in  acumen» 

Ferri  descendnnt  fessaque  membra  regunt ; 
Artis  figmentum  firmans  natura  recurvum 

Apponit  recto,  dat  faber  anna  pedi. 


Died  1923.]      oiraldus  cambrbnsis.  d9S 

Aitis  opui  geminat,  jatfit  ]iatara«  seniqiie 
Prodiit  hinc  podium  feasa  focosque  juvans. 

Me  duo  oomponunt  an  et  natora,  senilea 
Aitoa  snstineoy  fena  focosqae  rego : 

Pes  9gQ  docre{»tiai  offeniis  virgat  leramen 
Fesaisp  obscnris  orbitai  fiirca  focis. 

Bmptmrio. 

Vernbu  imparibus  reapondet  amknu  amico, 

fiia  aenia  totidem  reddit  agitqoe  vicea. 
Munoa  amicoa  amat,  et  nftimera  landat  amicii 

Muneria  at  laudes  landat  amatque  magia. 
Qnalibet  ergo  probana  baeoU  plus  approbo  landea, 

Et  Yersva  Undo  venibna  arte  minor. 
Hoa  dnm  apecto  placea,  illoa  dum  specto  places  bis, 

Specto  hoe  atqne  iUoe  terqne  qnaterqne  places. 
Pracipni  primi  snnt,  pmdpnique  tecnndi, 

Sic  qui  prtecednnt  qniqne  eeqnentnr  enmt. 
Eligo  sic  igitnr  cunctos,  et  prsfero  nnlloa, 

Eztollena  titnlia  aingnla  qnnqne  suis. 

Giraldus  has  left  us  a  list  of  his  own  works,  compiled 
after  the  completion  of  the  treatise  De  instructione  prin- 
cipisy  and  therefore  at  the  time  when  he  had  nearly  ended 
his  literary  labours.  Most  of  these  works  are  preserved, 
and  they  all  merit  publication.    They  are, — 

1.  The  chronography  and  cosmography,  in  Latin  hexa- 
meters and  pentameters,  written,  as  he  informs  us,  in  his 
earlier  years^  and  in  some  parts  '^  following  the  doctrines 
of  the  philosophers  more  than  those  of  the  theologians."* 
No  work  answering  to  this  description  is  now  known. 

2.  The  Topographia  Hibemue,  in  three  books^  dedicated 
to  king  Henry  II.  The  first  book  describes  the  island^ 
and  the  animals  peculiar  to  it ;  the  second  treats  of  the 
wonders  of  Ireland,  its  stormy  seas,  extraordinary 
islands,  fountains^  and  lakes,  with  a  multitude  of  strange 
legends  and  pretended  miracles;  the  third,  of  the  first 
peopling  of   the  island  and  its   earlier  history,  of   the 

*  Plua  pbiiosophicum  quam  theologicum  nonnnUis  in  locis  dogma  secuta. 


894  oiRALDus  GAMBASNSfs.       [Bom  1146b 

manners  and  vioes  of  its  inhmbitaiitsy  and  of  the  state  of 
the  churchy  with  the  history  of  its  Icings  down  to  the 
invasion  of  the  Northmen. 

B.  The  EapupnaHo  Hiberma,  MPe  Sktoria  Vatidnalis, 
in  one  book,  a  narrative  of  the  conquest  of  Ireland  by  the 
Normans,  forming  a  sequel  to  tke  preceding  work. 

4.  Legends  of  Sainta.  These  include  Ae  lives  of  St, 
David,  St.  Caradoc,  St.  Ethelbert  the  martyr,  St  Re- 
migius  the  first  bishop  of  Lincoln,  and  St.  Hugh  bishop  of 
the  same  see.  Some  of  these  lives  have  he&a.  printed  in 
Wharton^s  Anglia  Sacra;  those  of  Hugh  and  Caradoc 
appear  to  be  lost ;  that  of  St.  Ethelbert  is  preserved  in  a 
manuscript  in  the  Cottonian  Library,  Vitdtios  E.  .vii. 

5.  llie  life  of  Geofirey  archbishop  of  York,  also  printed 
by  Wharton.     It  was  compiled  in  1193. 

6.  The  Symbolum  Electorum,  a  small  collection  of  let- 
ters and  verses,  distributed  into  two  books,  the  first  book 
in  prose,  the  second  in  verse.  A  copy  of  this  work  ia 
preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the  Library  of  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Cambridge,  mentioned  above ;  and  there  appears  Jx> 
be  another  copy  or  portion  of  it  in  the  Bodleian  Library. 

7*  A  work  entitled  lAber  InvecHormm^  which  seems  to 
have  been  an  attack  upon  the  enemies  who  conducted  the 
accusations  against  him  in  the  court  of  Rome. 

8.  Speculum  duorum  cammoniiorium  et  consolatoriunij 
which  appears  to  have  been  of  the  same  character  as  the 
preceding.  Neither  of  these  books  are  now  known  to 
exist. 

9.  The  Gemma  Ecclesiastical  in  two  parts,  the  first 
containing  instructions  for  the  clergy,  relating  to  the 
observation  of  the  "greater  and  more  necessary  sacra- 
inents,*'*  and  the  second  on  the  decency  and  continence 

*  De  deri  circa  MCFBmeiiU  majora  maj^ue  neoessaria  inetnictioae. 


Died  IMS.']      gibaldus  cambbsmbib.  895 

of  the  derioal  orders.    This  work  is  pveserved  in  hubmi- 
scnpt* 

10«  The  Itinecary  of  Cambria,  in  two  books,  dedioated 
to  Stei^ifin  erdibiidiep  of  Camtorbury. 

11.  The  Topograpkia  Cambrue^  aluo  zq  two  books,  the 
first  only  of  which,  containing  die  description  of  Wales,  or 
De  LaudaUBbus  Cambria,  was  printed  in  the  early  editions. 
The  second,  entitled  De  lUoMidabUibiu  WaUu^  was  first 
printed  in  the  Anglia  Sacra.  The  first  edition  of  this 
work  was  dedicated  to  Hugh  bishop  of  Lincoln,  but  an 
enlarged  edition  was  subsequentiy  dedicated,  like  the 
Itinerary,  to  Stephen  ardibishop  of  Canterbury.  At  the 
end  of  the  second  book  is  a  shorter  list  of  the  works  of 
Oiraldus,  with  his  retrtuAaiiones,  He  infonns  us  that  he 
eompiled  a  map  of  Wales  to  accompany  tiiis  woik.* 
Such  a  map  is  described  by  Tanner  as  preceding  the  Topo- 
grapkia Cambrim  in  ^the  Library  at  Westminster/^  {in 
Bibl.  Westmonast.) 

12.  A  treatise,  De  fideifruetuftdeiqHe  d^^fisetUj  which  is 
lost. 

13.  The  treatise  De  princtpie  imtrucHone,  which  has 
been  printed  with  considerable  omissions  in  the  French 
colleetion  of  Historians  commenced  by  Dom.  Bouquet. 
It  was  written  at  the  time  when  the  English  barons  called 
orer  prince  Louis  to  assist  them  against  king  John,  and 
its  grand  object  appeara  to  be  to  extol  the  virtues  and 
jnety  of  the  reigning  house  of  France  at  the  expense  of 
Heniy  II.  and  his  sons,  who  are  spoken  of  in  terms  of  the 

*  Forro  circiter  id  ipgam  temporis>  quo  Cambrue  descriptionem  stylo 
pentrinxfanofl»  Mappam  ejnsdem  ezpreswm,  quatenus  et  natale  solum  son 
tantnm  Uteris»  sod  «ttam  protractkniibiis  qmbasdam»  et  qvasi  pictnris 
Tariis,  non  incompetentibiis  ant  indecentibus,  nostra  foret  ad  nngnem  opera 
declaratnm,  bren  in  locnlo  arctoqne  folio  loca  qnam  plnrima  oomplectentes, 
eademqne  turn  dilneide  satis  et  distincte  disponentes,  noo  absque  stodioso 
kbore  propalaTimns. 


396  GIRALDUS   CAMBRBN818.        [Bom  1146. 

greatest  abhorrence.    It  is  divided  into  three  distinctions 
or  books. 

14.  The  narrative  De  gestis  Giraldi  labariosia,  a  history 
of  his  own  life^  and  especially  of  his  troubles  in  relation 
to  the  see  of  St.  David's^  in  three  books.  The  only  copy 
known  is  preserved  in  the  Cottoniam  MS.  Tiberins  B. 
XIII.,  from  which  it  was  printed  by  Wharton,  but 
which  is  unfortunately  mutilated  of  a  very  large  portion, 
although  the  table  of  contents  of  the  whole  is  pre- 
served. 

15.  Dialogues  de  jure  et  statu  Menevensis  eccksuBy  in 
seven  distinctions,  printed  in  the  Anglia  Sacra* 

16.  The  above  complete  Oiraldus's  own  list,  but  we 
must  add  to  them  the  Speculum  EccleauB,  one  of  the  latest 
and  most  remarkable  of  his  literary  productions.  It  is 
divided  into  four  distinctions  or  books,  of  which  the  first 
three  contain  a  long  and  bitter  attack  on  the  corruptions 
of  the  monks,  full  of  scandalous  anecdotes,  and  the  fourth 
book  is  devoted  to  a  consideration  of  the  state  of  the 
court  and  church  of  Rome.  The  only  copy  known  of  this 
work  is  contained  in  the  Cottonian  Library  (MS.  Cotton. 
Tiber.  B  xiii.),  and  is  unfortunately  much  mutilated  by 
the  fire  which  endangered  the  existence  of  that  valuable 
collection.    This  work  has  not  been  printed. 

The  old  bibliographers  add  many  titles  to  this  list,  but 
they  are  apparently  mere  errors  and  misappropriations  of 
the  works  of  others.  In  the  Topographia  Hibemiof, 
Ginddus  refers  to  his  metrical  treatise  De  phUosophicis 
flosculis,*  which  perhaps  was  nothing  more  than  the  cAro- 
nographia  et  cosmographia  mentioned  above.  It  appears 
that  he  intended  to  publish  Topographies  or  descriptions 


'  *  In  libdlo  tamen  quern  de  philosophids  floscuKi  metrice  conscripsimus, 
dilucida  breTitate  sunt  hec  explanata.    Topogr.  Hibern.  Distinc,  iii.  c.  3, 


Died  1223.]       giraldus  «ambrbnsis.  397 

of  England^*  and  of  ScoUand^f  but  we  can  discover  no 
reason  for  believing  that  he  ever  put  this  design  into 
execution.     No  such  works  are  now  in  existence. 

Edidont, 

Itinerarinm  Cambri»:  sen  laboriosK  Balduini  Cantoar.  archiepiicopi  per 
Walliam  legationis,  accurata  descriptio,  auctore  Sil.  Giraldo  Cambrense. 
Cnm  annotattonibus  DaTidis  Poveli  sacne  theologi»  professoris.  Lon- 
dini,  1585.  8?o.    Joined  with  Ponticiui  Virunnins. 

Anglica,  Normannica,  Cambrica,  a  veteribos  scripta :  .  .  .  .  Flerique  nunc 
primum  in  lacem  editi  ex  bibli«theca  Gulielmi  Camdeni.  Francofdrti, 
1603.  fol.  pp.  692-~754.  Topographia  Hibernie ;  live  de  Mirabilibiis 
Hibernise,  authore  SiWestro  Giraldo  Cambrenae. — )?p.  755 — 813.  £x- 
pagnatio  Hiberniaei  bitc  Historia  yaticinalia  SilTestris  Giraldi  Cam- 
brensis.— Pp.  818—878.  Itinerariam  Cambric.— Pp.  879-^91.  Cam- 
bric Deacriptio,  anctore  Sil.  Giraldo  Cambrense. 

Anglia  Sacra  .  .  .  Pars  Secmida.  Londini,  1691.  fol.  pp.  351 — 354,  Vita 
Hugonia  Nonant,  Episcopi  CoTentrenais  et  Lichfeldensia,  ex  Giraldi 
Cambrensia  Speculo  Ecdeaic.  Pp.  373 — 640,  Giraldi  Cambrensii, 
archidiaconi  et  episcopi  electi  Menevensis,  Vita  Galfridi  ardiiepiaoopi 
Eboracensis.  Vits  episcoporum  Lincolniensium.  Vita  sex  episco- 
pomm  cotetaneorum.  Epistola  ad  Stephanam  Langton  archiepiscopam, 
Cantuariensem.  De  libris  a  se  scriptis.  De  Descriptione  Walliae,  liber 
secundus.  Retractationes.  De  rebus  a  se  gestis  libri  III.  De  jure  et 
statu  MeneveDsisEcclesiseDistinctiones  VII.  Vita  S.  Dayidis  arcbiepis- 
oopi  Menerensis. 

Itinerariam  Cambric  sen  laboriosc  Baldvini  Cantnariensis  archiepiscopi  per 
Walliam  legationis  accurata  descriptio,  auctore  SiW.  Giraldo  Cambrense. 
Cum  Annotationibus  Davidis  Poweli.    Londini,  1806.  4to. 

Recueil  des  Historiens  des  Gaules  et  de  la  France,  tome  dix-hnitidme.  A 
Paris,  1822,  fol.  pp.  ISl— 163.  Ex  Silvestris  Giraldi  Cambrensia  de 
Instructione  Principis  libris  tribus. 

Dramiation,  L 

The  Itinerary  of  Archbishop  Baldwin  through  Wales,  A.D.MC^XXXVIII. 
by  Giraldus  de  Barri  ;  translated  into  English,  and  illustrated  with 
views,  annotations,  and  a  life  of  Giraldus,  by  Sir  Richard  Colt  Hoare, 
Bart.  F.R.S.  F.S.A.    London,  1806.    8  toIs.  4to. 

*  Donee  .  .  .  Cambric  quam  pre  manibus  habemns  descriptio  et 
Brytannica  Topographia  in  publicam  notitiam  emanaverint.  Prcf.  prin. 
in  Cambr.  Descrip.  Cum  notabilem  illam  Brittannic  Topographiam 
enucleatius  ezpedietur.     Topogr.  Hibem.  Distinc.  iii«,  c.  21. 

t  Cum  de  utriusque .  terrc,  Gwallic  scilicet  et  Scotic  situ  et  proprietate, 
deque  utriusque  gentis  engine  et  natura  tractabimusi  plenins  expUoabitur. 
Topogr.  Hibem.  Distinc.  i.,  c.  21. 


598 


GEOFFREY  DE  VINSAUF. 

We  know  little  more  o£  the  personal  history  of  Greoffrey 
de  Vinsauf  CGalfHdus  de  VinosalvoJ  than  that  he  was  an 
Englishman,  and  that  he  appears  to  have  resided  for 
some  time  in  Italy,  and  to  have  enjoyed  the  favour  of 
pope  Innocent  III.  He  is  frequently  called  Galfridus 
Anglicu^  Ghde  has  supposed  him  to  be  the  same  per- 
son as  Walter  de  Constantiis,^  but  without  any  sufficient 
groundis.  Greoffrey  de  Yinsauf  is  known  as  the  author  of 
a  metrical  treatise  m  Latin  on  the  art  of  poetry,  which 
generally  bears  the  tide  of  Nova  Poetria,  and  the  exten- 
sive popularity  of  which  during  the  ages  which  followed 
its  publication  is  evinced  by  the  great  number  of  copies 
still  extant  in  manuscripts  of  the  thirteenth  and  four- 
teenth centuries.  It  is  however  a  heavy  tiresome  poem,  and 
is  only  interesting  as  being  the  key  to  the  general  style  of 
the  Latin  poetical  writers  of  the  thirteenth  century,  which 
was  formed  on  the  rules  given  in  this  work.  A  writer  of 
the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century  seems  to  intimate 
that  Geoffirey  had  been  sent  to  Rome  on  a  mission  from 
King  Richard  I.f 

The  Nova  Poetria  is  dedicated  to  pope  Innocent,  the 
author's  patron,  and  commences  with  an  exaggerated  en- 
comium of  that  ponti€f.    We  may  perhaps  conclude  from 

*  6ale*8  Scriptoref »  vol  ii.  prolog. 

t  John  of  Bamboroughi  Bnbprior  ofTynmonth,  who  wrote  an  "  Argu- 
ment*' to  this  book  in  1438,  in  which  it  la  stated — Causa  efficiens  [hujus 
operis]  est  magister  Galfridus  Anglicua ;  causa  finalis  communis  est  et  pri- 
tata  ;  communis  est  instruere  lectorem  in  rhetorica,  privata  negotium 
Ricardi  regis  AngUe,  qui  culpa  nobis  ignota  papam  offenderat. — Tanner. 


Rie.  /•]  GBOFFEST  DB  TINdAVF.  399 

the  following  lines  of  1ihe<dedioatK>ii  that  it  was  written  at 
Rome: — 

-*«-  Me  transtolit  An^a  Bomam, 
Tanqvam  de  terris  ad  CGelum.    Transtnlit  ad  yoi, 
De  tenebria  Telut  ad  lacem.  ' 

The  poem,  or  rather  treatise,  opens  with  some  general 
observations  and  rules  for  poetical  composition. 

Si  quia  habet  fondare  domum,  xum  currat  ad  actum 
Impetnota  manna ;  mtcinseca  linea  oordia 
Pnemetitiir  opus,  Beriemqne  aab  ordine  certo 
Interior  pnncribit  homo,  totamqae  fignrat 
Ante  manna  oardia»  qnom  corporis  at  Btatua  ejus, 
Et  prina  andietypaa,  qnm.  aanailia.    Ipaa  poesia 
Spectat  in  hoe  speeiilo ;  qusB.lex  sit  danda  poetia. 
Non  manna  ad  oaiamnm  ■  pnacBpa,  non  lingua  sit  ardena 
Ad  verbmns  nentram  manibns  committe  regandam. 
Fortun»,  aed  mena  diacrela  pneambnla  hdd, 
Ut  melios  fortnnetopna,  anapcmdat  eamm 
Offieinm,  tracfeatqne  din  da  tbemafta  Boeunu 
Ciroinna  interior,  memaa  prscireinet  omna 
Materin  ipatinm.    Gertna  preliminct  ordot 
Unde  prfBarripiat-cnTanm  atilns,  ant  ubi  gadea 
Figat,    Opna  totnm  prndcm  in  paotoria  arcem 
Contrabe,  aitqne  prina  in  pectore  qnam  sit  in  ore. 

These  lines  are  a  fair  specimen  of  Geoffrey^s  style.  The 
following  chapters  treat  in  succession  of  the  distribution  of 
the  work ;  of  the  ordering  and  arrangement  of  it;  of  the 
exordium ;  and  of  the  method  of  treating  the  subject,  and 
the  different  ways  of  amplification,  which  was  looked 
upon  as  the  most  important  branch  of  the  art,  and  occu- 
pies a  large  portion  of  this  metrical  treatise. 

—  Si  vis  bene  dad, 
Te  certo  committe  dnci.    Subscripts  reYolve. 
Ipsa  stilnm  dncent^  et  utrimque  decentia  dicent. 
Formnla  materise,  qnssi  qnsdam  formula  oerae, 
Primitus  est  duri  tactna.    Si  sednla  cura 
Igniat  ingeninm,  snbito  moUescitad  ignem 
Ingenii,  sequiturque  manum  qnocnnque  vocarit,. 
Ductilis  ad  quicquid  hominis  menus  interioris 
Dudt,  amplificet,  vel  curtet,  si  fticis  amplnm. 

The  rules  and  examples  are  sometimes  good,  but  they 


400  GEOFPRBY  DE  VIN8AUF.  [Reign  of 

are  as  often  in  bad  taste,  and  well  calculated  to  produce 
the  inflated  and  meretricious  style  of  writing  which  too  often 
distingiushed  the  writers  of  the  succeeding  age.  Some  of 
the  examples  refer  to  the  historical  events  of  the  time,  as 
in  the  famous  lamentation  for  the  death  of  king  Richard^ 
who  received  his  wound  on  a  Friday,  which  day  is  thus 
apostrophised, — 

O  Veneris  lacrimosa  dies !  o  sidos  amAnim  ! 

Ilia  dies  tna  nox  fiiit,  et  Venus  ilia  Tenenom. 

Ilia  dedit  Tnlnns.    Sed  pessimns  iUa  diemm 

Primns  ab  nndeno,  qni  yitn  Titricos»  ipsnm 

Clansit.    Uterqne  dies  homictda  tjrnuinide  mira 

Trajedt  clansos  exclnsam,  tectos  apertam, 

ProTidns  Incantmn,  miles  monitas  inermem, 

Et  proprium  regem.    Qoid  miles  ?  perfide  miles  1 

PerfidisB  miles,  pndor  orbis,  et  nnica  soides 

Militis,  miles  msnnnm  fiustnra  soaram. 

Ansns  es  hoc  in  enm  soelus  ?  hoc  soelus  ?  istndes  ansns  ? 

O  dolor !  O  plus  qoam  dolor !  O  mors  1  O  tnumlenta 

Mors  I    Esses  vtinam  mors  mortiuu    Quid  mendnisti 

Ansa  neftts  tantum  ?    Placnit  tibi,  toUere  solem 

Et  tenebris  tenebrare  solom.    Sds  quern  n^nisti  ? 

Ipse  fiiit  jabar  in  oculis,  et  dnloor  in  anre, 

Et  stupor  in  mente.     Scis  impia  quern  rapuisti  ? 

Ipse  fuit  dominns  armornm,  gloria  regnm, 

DeUti«  mundi.    NU  addere  noverat  ultra, 

Ipse  fuit  quicquid  potuit,  natura.    Sed  istud 

Causa  fuit,  quare  rapuisti.    Res  pretiosas 

Eligisi  et  riles  quasi  dedignata  relinquis. 

There  is  keen  satire  in  Chaucer's  allusion  to  this  over- 
strained affectation  of  grief, — 

O  Gaufride,  dere  maister  soterain, 

That,  whan  thy  worthy  king  Eichard  was  slain 

With  shot,  complainedest  his  deth  so  sore. 

Why  ne  had  I  now  thy  science  and  thy  lore, 

Tke  Friday  for  to  ehiden,  as  did  ye  ? 

(For  on  a  Friday  sothly  slain  was  he) 

Than  wold  I  shew  you  how  that  I  coud  plaine 

For  Chauntecleres  drede  and  for  his  paine. 

Cant.  T.  I.  15,353. 

The  following  may  be  taken  as  another  example  of  the 


RiC.  /.]  GEOFFREY  DE  VIN8AUF.  '101 

beauties  of  style  vrhich  found  favour  in  the*  rhetorical 
school  represented  by  Geoffrey  de  Vinsauf : — 

Vd  si  dicamns  de  tempore  navibus  apto  :— 
Non  objurgat  aquas  aquilOi  neo  inebriat  auster 
Aera ;  sed  solis  radius,  quasi  scopa  lutosi 
Aeris,  emandat  coelum,  vultuque  sereQO 
Tempus  adulatur  pelago ;  dandestina  flatus 
Murmura  stare  freta  faciunt,  et  currere  vela. 

After  explaining  at  length  all  the  beauties^  and  warning 
against  what  were  then  considered  the  vices,  of  composi- 
tion, the  Nova  Poetria  concludes  with  three  epilogues,  the 
first  of  which  is  another  extravagant^  we  might  even  say 
impious,  address  to  the  pope, — 

Jam  mare  transcurri,  gades  in  littore  fixi, 

Et  mihi  te  portum  statno,  qui,  maxima  rerom, 

Nee  Deus  es,  nee  homo,  quasi  neuter  es  inter  utrnmqve, 

Quern  Deus  elegit  socium.     Socialiter  egit 

Tecum  partitas  mundom.     Sibi  nduit  uiius 

Omnia,  sed  voluit  tibi  terras,  et  sibi  coelum. 

Quid  potuit  melius  ?  quid  majns  ?  cui  meliori  ? 

Vel  cui  majori  ?     Dico  minus.     Imo  vel  sque 

Magno,  vel  simili. 

The  second  epilogue  is  addressed  to  the  emperor,  and 
is  a  petition  for  the  liberation  of  king  Richard^  so  that 
we  may  suppose  the  book  to  have  been  originally  com- 
posed in  1193,  although  not  pubUshed  till  after  Richard's 
death.    This  epilogue  commences  with  the  lines, — 

Imperialis  apex,  cui  8er?it  poplite  flexo 
Roma  caput  mundi. 

The  third  epilogue  is  addressed  to  an  archbishop 
named  William,  whom  some  have  supposed  to  have  been 
no  other  than  William  de  Longchamp  bishop  of  Ely. 
This,  however,  appears  to  be  a  mere  conjecture  without 
foundation.     It  begins  with  the  words, — 

Quod  papse  scripsi  munus  speciale  libelli 
Aceipe,'flo8  regni. 

VOL.  II.  2   D 


402  JOSEPH  OF  BXBTBR.  [Reign  qf 

The  old  bibliographers  make  separate  works  of  these  epi- 
logues, as  well  as  of  some  portions  of  the  Nova  Poeiria, 
They  also  make  Geoffrey  de  Vinsauf  the  author  of  a 
poem  against  the  c(J)Tuptions.of  the  church,  printed  by 
Flacius  Illyricus  under  the  title  Gaufredu9  de  sUOu  curia 
Ramana  et  de  yus  ironica  rec(m$nendalioney  which,  how- 
ever, carries  internal  evidence  of  having  been  written  as 
late  as  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century.  Other 
poems  have  been  attributed  to  this  writer,  but  it  seems 
most  probable  that  the  Nova  Poetria  is  the  only  work 
known  of  which  he  was  the  author.  Leland  found  the 
name  ^^  Galfridus  Vinesave'^  inscribed  on  the  last  page  of 
a  treatise  De  rebus  Micis,  which  was  probably  only  a 
copy  of  the  well-known  poem  entitled  FloriJegus. 

Gale  has  published  under  the  name  of  Geoffirey  de 
^nsauf  the  Itinerarium  Ricardi  Anglorvm  regie  in  Ter- 
ram  Sanctum,  which  appears  to  belong  more  justly  to 
Bichard  the  Canon. 

BdUioiu. 

An  edition  is  said  io  have  been  printed  at  Vienna,  Bpjud  Wolfimgnm  Lasinm. 
Polycarpi  Leyieri  Histom  Poetarum  et  Poematom  Medii  JRii  decern,  post 

annnm  a  nato  Chriato  cccc,  aecnlomm.  Halae  Magdeb.  1721.  8to.  pp. 

861^978.    Galfridi  de  Vino  SaWo  Poetria  Nora. 
GaJfridi  de  VinoealTO  An  Poetica  ante  qningentoa  annoa  oonacripta    .    •    . 

edita    ...    a  Polycarpo  Leyiier.  Helmatadii,  anno  mdccxziy.  8to. 


JOSEPH  OF  EXETER. 

The  best  of  our  medieval  Anglo-Latin  poets  was  Jo- 
seph of  Exeter,  who,  fortunately,  wrote  before  the  poetical 
rules  of  Geoffirey  de  Vinsauf  were  established  in  the 
schools.  Leland  learnt  from  one  of  his  lost  books  that 
Joseph  was  a  native  of  Exeter ;  his  patron  was  archbishop 
Baldwin,  to  whom  he  dedicates  his  poem  De  BeUo  Trq/ano, 


Ric.  /.]  JOSEPH  OP  EXBTBR.  403 

which  was  finished  when  Henry  IL  was  preparing  for  the 
crusade*  Camden,  who  had  the  Antiochm  before  him^ 
states  that  Joseph  accompanied  king  Richard  to  Syria. 
We  know  nothing  of  the  time  of  his  death ;  Bale's  state- 
ment that  he  flourished  in  1210  is  a  mere  guess^  and  the 
supposition  of  Leland  that  he  died  in  the  reign  of  Henry 
III.  arose  from  a  mistake  of  the  following  passage  of  the 
poem  of  the  Trojan  War^  in  which  the  third  Henry,  here 
compared  with  Hector,  is  the  son  of  Henry  II.,  crowned 
as  Henry  III.  during  his  father's  life,  who  died  prema- 
turely in  1184. 

Tantos  in  HectoreaB  audaz  decreverat  iras 
TertiuB  Henriciu  noster,  qao  rege  BritanDus 
Major,  quo  dace  NonnanniUy  quo  Francua  alumno 
Ririt,  et  in  bellia  gens  martia  nacta  priorem 
Non  illi  inyidit  Bellonam,  at  Pallada  nobis. 

Many  parts  of  Joseph's  poem,  in  five  books,  on  the 
Trojan  War,  approach  so  near  the  pure  taste  of  the  classic 
ages,  that  it  was  printed  at  first,  and  passed  through  some 
editions^  under  the  name  of  Cornelius  Nepos,  until  the 
collation  of  more  perfect  manuscripts  restored  it  to  its 
right  author.  Tet  it  seems  to  have  been  so  little  appre- 
dated  at  the  time  it  was  written  that  it  is  not  alluded  to 
in  any  of  the  books  of  the  succeeding  age,  and  it  occurs 
very  rarely  in  manuscripts.  Warton  ♦  and  Leland  f  have 
pointed  out  some  of  the  best  passages  of  this  poem,  which 
opens  with  the  following  elegant  exordium : — 

Diadam  lacrymaa,  concesaaqoe  Pergama  fktM, 
Pnelia  bina  ducam,  bis  adaetam  cladiboi  arbem 
In  dneras,  qaerimor ;  flemosqae  qaod  Hereolis  ira, 
Hesionea  raptaa,  Helense  faga,  fregerit  aroem, 
Impolerit  Phrygios»  Danaas  ezciverit  arbes. 


*  History  of  Bnglish  Poetry,  vol.  i.  pp.  czzvii—cxzxii.  ed.  1840. 
t  Commentarii  de  Seriptoribns  Britannicis,  p.  836. 

2  d2 


404  JOSEPH  OF  BXBTBR.  IReiffti  of 

Joseph  dedicates  his  work  to  archbishop  Baldwin^  in 
the  following  no  less  finished  lines,  which  were  much  mu« 
tilated  in  the  early  printed  editions,  and  are  defectiye  in 
the  latest  reprints. 

Mire  qoidem  dicta,  sed  vere,  advertite,  pandam. 
Nun  Tati  Fhrygio  Martem  oertiaiimiig  index 
Explicnit  pneaena  ocuhu,  qaem  fabula  nesdt. 
Hone  ubi  combiberit  avid»  apes  ardua  mentis, 
Quos  snperos  in  Tota  Tocem  ?  mens  conscia  veri 
Proscripsit  longe  Indentem  ficta  poetam ; 
Chun  te  Cecropii  mentita  lioentia  pagi, 
Et  liedant  figmenta,  pater,  quo  preside  floret 
Cantia,  et  in  priacaa  reapint  libera  leges. 
In  nnmenun  jam  crescit  honoa ;  te  tertia  poscit 
Infdla ;  jam  meminit  Wigomia,  Cantia  discity 
Romanus  meditatar  apex ;  et  nanfraga  Petri 
Ductorem  in  mediis  expectat  cymba  prooellis. 
In  tamen  ocdduo  degis  contentus  ovili, 
Tertius  a  Thoma,  Thomasqne  secnndns  et  alter ; 
Sol  oriens,  rebus  snccessor,  moribus  haeres. 
Felices  quos  non  trahit  ambitns  1  ardua  nactus 
Non  in  se  descendit  honos ;  non  caeca  potestas 
Quid  possit  fortuna  videt :  non  perfida  sentit 
Prosperitas,  flevisse  humilem,  qui  ridet  in  altis. 
Pardte,  venales  qoisqms  venatur  honores, 
Unde  ruat  tabulata  struit.    Fremit  nltio  noxaa 
Tunc  greyior,  qnum  tarda  venit :  tunc  plena  timoris, 
Quum  terrore  caret :  blanda  nil  sscYius  ira, 
Qnum  floret  miseri  feliz  ii^uria  Toti. 

At  tn  dissimilis  longe,  cui  fronte  serena 
Sanguinis  egregii  lucrum,  paoemque  litata 
Emptam  anima  pater  ille  pius,  summumqne  cacumen 
In  tnnm  renisse  Telit,  cui  cederit  ipse 
Prorsus,  vel  propriaa  Uetus  sociaret  habenas. 

Hactenus  hsec,  tuque  oro  tuo  da,  maxime,  vati 
Ire  iter  inoeptum,  Trojamque  aperire  jaAentem : 
Te  aacre  assument  acies,  divinaque  bella, 
ToBC  dignnm  majore  tuba,  tunc  pectore  toto 
Nitar  et  immensum  mecum  spai^re  per  orbem. 

Warton  has  remarked  justly  that  the  style  of  this  poem  is 
a  mixture  of  Ovid,  Statius,  and  Claudian,  who  in  Joseph's 
time  were  the  most  popular  writers  of  antiquity ;  and  he 


/ 


Ric.  I.]  JOSRPH  OF  RXKTEft.  405 

describes  the  diction  as  generally  pure^  the  periods  rounds 
and  the  numbers  harmonious.  In  matter,  it  is  only  a 
paraphrase  of  the  fabulous  history  which  was  circulated 
during  the  middle  ages  under  the  name  of  Dares  Phrygius. 
The  last  lines  of  the  preceding  extract  are  addressed  to 
Henry  II.  who  was  at  that  time  preparing  to  undertake 
a  crusade  against  Saladin,  and  they  are  considered  as 
implying  a  promise  to  make  that  expedition  the  subject  of 
a  future  poem.  The  six  books  of  the  Trojan  War  were  pro- 
bably the  labour  of  a  considerable  space  of  time;  and  at  the 
end,  as  the  passage  is  given  by  Leland,  the  poet  promises 
more  distinctly  a  future  work,  in  the  following  lines — 


Compendia  veri 


Etf  si  quando  auctor  ranu,  tamen  altera  sacne 
Tendo  fila  lyne  plectro  majore  canenda. 
Antiochi  nunc  bella  Tocanti  nee  dicere  votum 
Chrifticolas  ades,  et  nostne  signa  sibyllse, 
Quse  yirtaSi  qnee  dona  crncis,  nee  fnndit  anhda 
Hos  mihi  circa  pedes  animi  fidentis  hiatum, 
Celsior  et  coelo  venit  impletunis  Apollo. 
Tn  quoque,  magne  pater,  nostri  fidncia  ccepti, 
Altera  et  in  pelago  pandes  mihi  vela  secundo. 
Hoc  tibi  hidet  opus,  saccedet  serior  setaa, 
Seria  sucoedent  aores  meritnra  pudicas. 
Si  tans  in  nostros  candor  consenserit  ansua, 
Hand  metaam  culids  stimaloa  fdcive  snsnmun. 

The  Antiocheis  of  Joseph  of  Exeter  appears  unfortunately 
to  be  lost.  Leiand,  after  long  search,  met  with  a  muti- 
lated copy  among  the  dust  of  the  monastic  library  of 
Abingdon.*  Camden,  who  laments  the  entire  loss  of 
this  work,  has  printed  the  only  passage  now  known.f 
Warton  informs  us  that  *^  Mr.  Wise,  the  late  Rad- 
cliffe  librarian^  told  me  that  a  manuscript  of  the  Antio- 
cheis was  in  the  library  of  the  duke  of  Chandos  at  Ca- 
nons.''   It  appears,  however,  that  neither  of  these  manu- 

« 

*  Oim  ezcuterem  polverei   et  blattas  AbandnnenBis  bibliothecK. 
t  In  hia  Remains,  p.  880. 


406  JOSEPp  OF  EXETER.         [Bciffn  o/Ric.  L 

scripts  can  be  traced,  and  their  fate  is  unknown.  In  the 
following  lines — ^the  fragment  of  this  poem  preserved  by 
Camden — Joseph  celebrates  the  heroes  of  the  fabulous 
British  history. 

■         lorlyta  fuliit 
Posteritai  ducibus  tantis,  tot  divef  alomniB, 
Tot  foecaodA  Tins,  premerent  qui  viribos  orbem 
Et  fama  yeteres.     Hinc  Conitaotioua  adeptut 
Imperium,  Romam  tenoit,  Byzantion  anzit 
Hinc  Seno&om  ductor  captiva  Brennins  urbe 
Romnleas  domuit  flammiB  Tictricibus  aroea. 
Hinc  et  Scaeva  satnsi  pan  non  obscnra  tamultas 
Civilia,  magnum  8olu8  qui  mole  solnta 
Obsedit,  meliorqne  stetit  pro  Caeaare  munu. 
Hinc  celebri  fato  felici  floruit  ortu 
Flos  rpgum  Artburua,  cnjus  tameo  acta  stupori 
Non  micuere  minus :  totus  quod  in  sure  voloptas, 
Et  popolo  plaudente  favus.     QuKCUoque  priorum 
Inspice :  PelUeum  oonmiendat  fama  tyrannum, 
Pagina  Caesareos  loquitur  Romana  triumpbos  ; 
Aldden  domitis  attollit  gloria  monstris ; 
Sed  nee  pinetum  coryli,  nee  sydera  solem 
Equant.    Annales  Graios  Latiosque  rerolTC, 
Prisca  parem  neacit,  aequalem  postera  nullum 
Exbibitura  dies.     Reges  supereminet  omnes : 
Solus  praeteritis  melior,  majorque  futuris. 

We  know  not  on  what  authority  Leland  attributes  to 
Joseph  of  Exeter  epigrams,  and  love-verses  {NugiB  ama-- 
toriai).  He  is  also  pretended  to  have  written  in  Latin 
verse  De  institutione  Cyriy  beginning  with  the  words  Pnelia 
bina  ducum  canimus  ;  but  this  is  perhaps  a  mere  fabrica- 
tion, grounded  on  the  second  line  of  the  exordium  to  the 
poem  on  the  Trojan  War. 

Bditiona. 

The  first  printed  edition  of  the  Poem  de  Bello  Trojano  appeared  at  BasQ, 
1541,  8yo.  which  was  taken  from  a  very  bad  manuscript. 

Daretis  Phrygti  vetustissimi  scriptoris  de  bello  Trojano,  in  quo  ipse  militayity 
libri  sex,  a  Comelio  Nepote  in  Latinum  sermonem  couTersi.  Adjnnzi- 
mus  Pindari  Thebani  Iliados  Homeri  Epitome,  et  Homeri  Ilias  a  Nico- 
lao  Valla  et  Vincentio  Obsopoeo  politissimo  carmine  reddita.  Bosilise, 
1558,  8to. 


Bom  1136.]        WILLIAM  OF  NBWBURY.  407 

Another  edition  waAjprinted  At  the  same  place  in  1583«  fol.  joined  with  the 

Diad. 
Daretia  Phrygii  Poetanim  et  Hiatoricorom  omninm  primi  de  Bello  Tro« 

jano  libri  aex,  a  Comelio  Nepote  Latino  cannine  donatL    Antrerpie, 

1608.  Sto. 
Joaephi  lacani  poetae  elegantiaaimi  de  Bello  Trojano  libri  aex,  hactenoa  Cor« 

nelii  Nepotia  nomine  aliqnotiea  editi,  nunc  antori  reatitnti,  et  notia  ez- 

plicati,  qnibna  alii  plnrimi  iUnatrantnr,  a  Samnele  Dreaemio  Dithmarao. 

Francofiirti,  1620.  4to. 
Tliia  edition  waa  reprinted  at  theaame  place  and  in  the  same  form  in 

1623. 
Daietia  Fhrygii  poetanim  et  hiatoricorom  omninm  primi  de  Bello  Trojano 

libri  aez  Latino  carmine  eleganter  redditi  a  Comelio  Nepote.    Medto- 

lani,  1669. 12mo. 
Daretia  Phrygii  de  Bello  Trojano  lib.  tL    Lat.  carmine  a  Joaepho  Exonienai 

redditi»  reoogniti  ac  emendati  cora  et  atadio  J.  Mori.    Londini,  1675. 

8to. 
Dictya  Cretenaia  et  Darea  Phrygina  de  Bello  et  Ezddio  Trajse,  in  nanm 

aeremaaimi  Delphini,  cnm  inteipretatione  Annie  Daoerue.    Accednnt 

in  hac  nora  editione  Notae  Variorum  integrse ;  nee  non  Joaephna  laoa* 

nua,  cam  notia  Sam.  Dreaenui.  AmateUedami,  170S.  4to. 
Dictya  Cretenaia  et  Darea  Phrygina  de  Bello  Trojano,  ex  editione  Sam.  Ar- 

topoei,  com  notia  et  interpretatione  in  nanm  Delphini,  variia  leett.  notia 

▼arior.    Accedont  Joaephi  lacani  de  Bello  Trojano  libri  vL  Londini» 

1825.    8to.  2  yola.    (Valpy'a  edition). 


WILLIAM  OP  NEWBURY. 

One  of  the  most  valuable  historians  who  flourished 
at  this  period  was  William  of  Newbury,  a  native  of 
Bridlington,  in  Yorkshire,  bom,  as  he  infonns  us,  in 
the  first  year  of  the  reign  of  king  Stephen,*  a^d.  1136, 
and  educated  in  the  monastery  of  Newbury,  of  which 
he  became  a  canon.  He  is  sometimes  called  Guliebnus 
Partms.f  According  to  Cave,  he  died  in  the  year 
1208.      His    patron    was    Roger,   made  abbot   of   the 

*  Cnjna  anno  primo  ego  G.  aervorum  Chriati  minimna  .  .  .  anm  natna. 
Proem,  in  Hiat.  anb  fine, 
t  Tanner,  following  Lelandi  placea  him  under  the  head  of  Ptfyi  [GWi- 

a/Mtiff.} 


408  WILLIAH  OF  NEWBURY.         [jBom  1136. 

• 

neighbouring  monastery  of  Byland  in  1141,  at  whose 
request  he  compiled  a  commentary  on  the  Song  of  Solo- 
mon^ which  was  preserved  in  the  library  of  Newbury  in 
the  time  of  Leland.  At  a  more  advanced  age  he  under- 
took to  write  the  history  of  his  own  times^  of  which 
several  manuscripts  have  been  preserved,  and  which  has 
been  repeatedly  printed.  In  this  work,  which  is  certainly 
one  of  the  best  arranged  histories  produced  at  that  period, 
William  aspired  with  some  success  to  rise  above  the  ordi- 
nary chroniclers  and  annalists.  In  a  preface  of  some 
length,  he  protests  against  the  absurdity  of  the  fabulous 
history  of  king  Arthur,  and  the  prophecies  of  MerUn,  and 
treats  very  contemptuously  the  authority  of  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth.  His  own  work  is  divided  into  five  books, 
the  first  of  which,  after  a  brief  notice  of  the  Anglo-Norman 
history,  includes  the  reign  of  Stephen;  the  second  and 
third  contain  the  history  of  the  reign  of  Henry  II.,  and 
the  fourth  and  fifth  are  devoted  to  that  of  Richard  I.  down 
to  the  year  1197^  at  which  date  its  author  concludes  his 
labours.  The  language  of  this  writer  is  correct,  and  less 
characterised  by  rhetorical  pretension  than  that  of  most 
of  his  contemporaries.  His  authority  is  especially  valu- 
able ;  and  he  has  preserved  many  personal  anecdotes  and 
some  curious  popular  legends.  The  following  character  of 
king  Henry  II.  is  drawn  with  evident  fidelity,  and  may 
be  compared  with  what  other  writers  cited  in  the  present 
volume  have  said  of  that  monarch. 

Sane  idem  rez  et  pluribas  qnee  personam  ornant  regiam  fiiisse  noscitnr 
virtatibus  praeditns,  et  quibasdam  nihilominus  vitiis  obnozius  que  christianum 
principem  plarimum  dedecorent.  In  libidinem  pronior  conjngalem  modom 
ezcessit,  formam  quidem  in  hoc  tenens  ayitam,  sed  tamen  avo  hujus  intempe- 
rantise  palmam  reliquit.  Regina  pro  tempore  snflScientMr  nsos  ad  sobolem, 
ea  desinente  parere,  sectando  Yoluptatem  spurios  fecit.  Venationis  delicias 
seque  ut  avus  plus  justo  diligens,  in  punieodis  tamen  pomtamm  pro  feris  legum 
transgressoribua  avo  mitior  fnit.      Ille  enim,  ut  suo  loco  dictum  est,  homici- 


Diedl20S.']        WILLIAM  OF  NBWBUHY.  409 

damm  et  fBriddanun  in  pnbUotB  aniiAadTenionllms  nulliim  T4»1  parvum  esse 
▼oMt  distantiam.  Hie  autem  hujoBinodi  tranBgressores  caroerall  custodia 
rive  eziHo  ad  tempsa  ooercoit*  Gentem  perfidam  «t  Christianis  inimicam, 
Jvdseos  sciiioet  foenerantei,  propter  laigiora  quae  ^  eonim  percipiebat  foene* 
rationibas  commoda,  phis  jvato  font ;  in  tantam  ut  in  Christianos  protervi 
et  cervicosi  existerent,  plurimaqua  eis  gravamina  irrogarent.  Inexquirendis 
peonniifl  paulo  immoderatior  fhit ;  aed  temporis  lequentia  supra  modnm  ez- 
cresceBB  malitia  jnatifioavit  earn  in  hac  parte,  et  deoentem  modnm  ab  eo  in- 
nnit  ease  Benratnm ;  ezcepto  eo  quod  Tacantes  eptscopatas,  nt  provenientia 
perdperet  commoda,  din  vacare  voluit,  et  ecclesiaaticiB  potins  usibns  ap- 

plicanda  in  fiscnm  redegit Fait  in  illo  regni  liutidio  tnend»  et  foveDd» 

paciB  public»  stndiosiBsimvB ;  iaportando  gladio  ad  yindictam  malefactorum, 
quietem  vero  bonoium,  Dei  minister  mnltom  idoneus ;  remm  et  libertatum 
ecdesiasticamm,  sicnt  post  mortem  ejus  darnit,  defensor  et  conservator  prs- 
cipnus.  Pupillomm,  viduaram,  pauperum,  in  shIb  praeceptionibus  mnltam 
cnram  habnit,  et  lods  pluribus  insignes  eleemosynas  larga  mann  impendit, 
Yiros  religiosos  speclaliter  honoravit,  et  res  eorum  tequo  cum  suis  dominiis 
jare  conservari  praecepit.  Antiquam  inhumanam  circa  naufragos  consuetu- 
dinem  in  ipsis  regni  sui  initiis  eximia  pietate  correzit,  atque  hujnsmodi  homi- 
nibns  ab  eqnoreo  discrimine  liberatis,  hnmanitatis  officiam  ezhiberi  prsed- 
piens,  graves  in  eos  poenas  sanxit  qui  forte  iHis  in  aliqno  molesti  esse  vd  de 
rebus  eorom  quippiam  usurpare  praesumerent.  Nullum  grave  regno  Anglo- 
rum  vd  terris  suis  transmarinis  onus  unquam  imposuit,  usque  ad  illam  novis- 
simam  dedmationem,  causa  ezpeditionis  lerosolymitanae,  quae  nimirum  de- 
dmatio  in  aliis  aequo  fiebat  regionibus.  Tributum  more  aliorum  principum 
sub  cujuslibet  necessitatis  obteotu  ecclesiis  sive  monasteriis  nunquam  indixit ; 
qaibus  etiam  ab  angariis  et  exactionibus  publicis  religiose  studio  immunita- 
tem  servavit  Discrimen  sanguinis  et  mortes  hominum  ezborresoens,  armis 
quidem  cum  aliter  non  potuit,  sed  libentius  pecunUs  cum  potuit,  pacem 
quaerere  studuit.  His  aliisque  bonis  personam  omans  regiam,  multis  tantum 
ad  sola  ejus  mala  oculos  babentibus  gratus  non  fuit.  Ingrati  homines  et 
cmnrersi  in  animum  piUvum  propni  mala  prindpis  aasidue  carpebant ;  bona 
vero  nee  audire  sustinebanti  quibos  utique  sequentis  temporis  sola  vexatio 
jam  dedit  intellectum. 

The  commentary  on  the  Song  of  Solomon  is  not  now 
known  to  exist.  Hearne  has  printed  at  the  end  of  his 
edition  of  the  history  three  homilies  ascribed  to  William 
of  Newbury^  which  are  perhaps  part  of  the  sermones  attri- 
buted to  him  by  Bale. 

Editions. 

The  first  edition  of  the  History  appeared  at  Antwerp,  in  8vo.  1567.    Edited 
by  GuUdmus  Silvius,  whidi  was-  reprinted  in  1577f  and  in  1587  in  the 


h-- 


410  ROOBB  DE  HOTBDEN.  {Died  after  1201. 

Heiddberg  oollection  of  English  chronicleB.    The  test  of  time  ediftioii» 

was  very  imperfect. 
Gnilielmi  Neabrigensifl  Angli,  canoniei  ed  r^golam  S.  Angvetini,  de  Rebii» 

Anglids  soi  temporiB  libri  qmnque.    Nunc  prinnim  aoodores  zi.  ct, 

pitnliB  hacteniB  detideFatiui,  -et  notie  JoamuB  Picardi  BeUovad  nqne 

cuionici  ad  8.  Victoria  Pkriaieiisis.    Pariiiia,  1610.  8?o. 
Goilielini  NeabrigenaLi  Hiatoria  aiye  Chronica  Remm  Anglicanmiy  ISbrie 

qninqne  ....  Studio  atque  indoatrla  Hionue  Heamii.    Aooedunt  Ho- 

mili»  tres  eldem  Gviliehno  a  yiria  emditia  adscriptK  . . .  Ozouk,  e 

Theatro  SheldoniBBO,  1719.  8yo.  3  toIb. 
RecaeU  des  Historiena  dea  Ganlea  et  de  la  France.    Tome  diz-hoitiime.    A 

Paria,  1822,  fol.  pp.  1^58.    £z  GmUelmi  Neubrigenaia  libria  qoiiiqii» 

de  Rebna  Aaglicia. 


ROGER  DE  HOVEDEN. 

Roger  de  Hovbdbn  is  on  many  accounts  one  of  the 
most  valuable  historical  writers  of  this  age.  He  was 
probably  bom  at  Hoveden^  or  Howden,  in  Yorkshire; 
and  we  learn  from  his  continuator^  Walter  of  Coventry,* 
that  he  was  attached  to  the  household  of  king  Henry  11.^ 
who  sent  him  to  visit  the  abbey  of  Christ's  Church  in 
Norwich,  and  several  other  reUgious  houses  which  were 
without .  abbots,  a  mission  which  he  performed  to  the 
king's  satisfaction.  We  know  nothing  more  of  his  per- 
sonal history,  except  that  he  finished  his  annals,  the  only 
work  he  appears  to  have  composed,  in  the  year  1201. 
The  chief  merit  of  Roger  de  Hoveden  appears  to  be  that 
of  being  a  laborious  compiler  and  copyist,  with  no  very 
great  share  of  originality ;  but  he  has  introduced  a  great 
number  of  copies  of  letters  and  other  documents  which 
are  not  found  elsewhere,  and  are  of  great  value  to  the 
historian.  One  of  the  chief  writers  from  whom  he  compiled 
was  Simeon  of  Durham.     In  the  latter  part  of  his  annals 

*  MS.  Harl.  689  as  quoted  by  Tanner. 


Died  qfter  1201.]  roger  ds  hovedbn.  411 

he  has  copied  almost  verbatim  the  history  of  Benedict 
of  Peterborough.  We  can  have  little  doubt  that  Roger^ 
and  not  Benedict,  was  the  copyist^  for  the  former  not  only 
appears  to  have  been  the  later  writer  of  the  two^  but  in 
the  years  which  coincide  with  those  included  in  Benedict's 
work^  he  gives  an  account  of  the  place  where  the  court 
kept  its  Christmas  festivities^  and  of  the  persons  present, 
with  some  other  of  Benedict's  peculiarities  of  arrangement, 
not  found  in  other  parts  of  the  annals.  As  a  specimen  of 
the  manner  in  which  Roger  has  copied  the  style  of  Bene- 
dict, we  give  the  passage  from  the  annals  corresponding 
to  the  extract  previously  given  in  the  article  on  Benedict 
of  Peterborough. 

Interim  Lodowicus  rex  Francorom  et  rex  Anglis  filius  obsedenrnt  Vemo- 
lium;  Bed  Hugo  de  Lasci  et  Hugo  de  Bello  CampOi  qui  inde  constabularii 
erant,  ▼Dlam  Vemolii  yiriliter  et  constaoti  animo  defendenmt.  Attamen 
com  rex  Francise  ibi  per  meosam  moram  fecuset,  yix  expugnavit  partiunculam 
▼iHb  iUiuB,  ex  parte  ilia  ubi  machinse  sue  bellice  posuerant.  Erant  quidem 
infra  Vernolium  trea  bnrgi  prseter  casteUum ;  et  unuaquisque  illonun  separa- 
tu8  erat  ab  alterOi  et  interclusua  forti  muro  et  fossa  aqua  plena.  Et  unus 
iUorum  dioebatur  magnus  bnrgus,  ubi  extra  murum  fixa  erant  tentoria  regis 
Fraud»  et  machinae  illius  bellicsB.  In  fine  autem  illius  mensisi  cum  bur- 
genses  de  burgo  magno  Tiderent,  quod  Tictus  et  necessaria  eis  defeclssent, 
nee  haberent  quid  manducarent,  compulsi  fame  et  inopia  inducias  triduanas 
oeperunt  a  rege  Francis  eundi  ad  dominum  suum  regem  Angli»,  propter  suc- 
cursum  ab  eo  babendum.  Et  nisi  infra  sequens  triduum  succursum  baberent, 
redderent  ei  burgum  ilium.  Et  statutus  est  eis  dies  peremptorins  in  Tigilia 
Sancti  Laurentii. 

Bdition», 

Rerum  Anglicarum  Scriptores  post  Bedam  prsedpui,  ex  vetustissimis  codicibus 
manuscriptis  nunc  primum  in  lucem  editi  (edited  by  Savile).  Franoo- 
fnrti,  1601.  fol.  pp.  401 — 8S9.  Rogeri  de  Hoveden  Annalium  para  prior 
et  posterior. 

Receuil  des  Historiens  des  Gaules  et  de  la  France.  Tome  dix-septi^me.  A 
Parb,  1818.  fol.  pp.  546 — 615.  Ex  Rogeri  de  Hoveden  Annalium 
parte  posteriori. 


412  JOHN  OF  BROHPTON.  {Rcjlffn  of 


JOHN  OF  BROMPTON. 

Another  history  of  this  period^  which  begins  with  the 
year  588,  the  date  at  which  Geofirey  of  Monmouth's 
history  concludes,  and  ends  with  th^  death  of  Richard  I* 
in  1198,  passes  under  the  name  of  John  of  Brompton,  who 
was  abbot  of  Jervaux,  in  Yorkshire,  in  1 193.  Selden,  and 
after  him  bishop  Nicholson,  were  of  opinion  that  it  is  not 
the  work  of  the  abbot  of  Jervaux,  but  that  it  was  merely  an 
,  anonymous  chronicle  copied  for  the  use  of  that  abbey ; 
and  there  is  still  preserved  in  the  library  of  Corpus  Christi 
College,  Cambridge  (MS.  No.  96),  a  manuscript  of  this 
work  ending  with  the  colophon, — Liber  monasterti  Joreval- 
lensia  ex  procuratione  domini  Johannis  Brompton  abbatis 
ejusdem  loci :  si  quia  hunc  librum  alienaverit  dehbitur  de 
libro  vit4B.  This  manuscript  appears  to  be  comparatively 
modern ;  but  an  additional  reason  for  believing  that  the 
chronicle  was  not  written  by  a  monk  of  the  abbey  of 
Jervaux  is  found  in  the  circumstance  that  it  contains  no 
account  of  the  foundation  or  history  of  that  monastic 
house. 

This  chronicle,  like  so  many  histories  composed  during 
the  middle  ages,  is  a  mere  compilation  from  other  sources, 
and  contains  little  or  no  original  information.  Under  the 
year  1171  we  find  a  long  description  of  Ireland,  abridged 
from  the  Topographia  of  Giraldus  Cambrensis.  In  the 
year  following  this  date  the  compiler  abridges  from  Bene- 
dict of  Peterborough,  as  will  be  seen  from  the  following 
extract,  corresponding  with  that  given  above  from  Roger 
de  Hoveden. 

Similiter  etiam  circa  octabas  apostolorom  Petri  et  Paali  Ludowicos  rex 
Francis  cam  ezercitu  magao  Normanniam  intrans  Vemolium  obaedit,  et 


Ric.  /.]  RAOULPH  DE  DICETO*  413 

madiiiiSs  beUids  statim  Ikctif  TiUam  circimqiiaqiie  ineultabftt  coddle.  Sed 
burgenaes  et  milites  infra  podti  TiUam  yiriliter  defendenint.  Nam  rex  Franciae 
qui  jam  per  mensem  cam  exerdta  auo  ibi  jacaerat,  panim  profidens,  in  nuUo 
da  nocere  potuit  nisi  ez  parte  ifla  ubi  erant  tentoria  sua  fixa.  In  fine  autem 
illias  mensis  victualibus  in  bnrgo  defidentibns,  bnrgenses  fame  etinopia 
compulsi  inducias  triduanas  nt  libere  ezirent  et  pro  succursa  ad  regem  AngUse 
transirent  a  rege  Frande  petienmt,  et  nisi  infra  sequens  tridunm  ab  eo  suc- 
cnraum  haberent  slbi  yiDam  redderent  quam  tenebant. 

Edition. 

Historifls  Anglicanse  Scriptores  X.  (edited  by  Sir  Roger  Twysden).  Londini, 
1652.  fol.  coll.  721^1284.  Chronicon  JohanmS  Brompton  abbotis 
Jorvalensisy  ab  anno  Domini  588  quo  ^.  Angnstinns  Tenit  in  .^ngliam 
usque  mortem  regis  Ricardi  I.  scilicet  annum  Domini  1198.  Nunc 
primum  editum  &  MSS.  codidbus  fideliter  coDatis. 


RADULPH  DE  DICETO. 

This  historian  is  said  to  have  travelled  through  a  great 
part  of  Europe,  and  to  have  been  made  on  his  return 
archdeacon  of  Middlesex,  about  the  year  1160.  About 
11 64  he  obtained  the  rectory  of  Aynho  in  Northampton- 
shire, which  he  resigned  in  1190.  He  Was  also  rector  of 
Finchingfield  in  Essex,  in  the  time  of  Hubert,  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  and  therefore  subsequently  to  1193.  In 
1183  he  had  been  made  dean  o{  London.  It  is  not  known 
when  he  died,  but  the  old  bibliographers  are  certainly 
wrong  in  stating  that  he  flourished  in  1210.*  There  is 
some  confusion  in  the  accounts  of  this  writer's  works, 
whi6h  it  seems  difficult  to  correct.  Two  were  published 
in  Sir  Roger  Twysden's  collection  of  historians,  an  abbre- 
viated history  brought  down  to  the  year  1198,  and  a  rather 
more  difiuse  history  which,  according  to  the  writer's  own 
statement,  began  in  the  year  1147and  ended  in  1193,though 

*  See  Tanner,  in  y.  Dieeto,    K  manuscript  quoted  by  Gale  called  bim 
Radulpbus  de  Diiseto, 


414  RADULPH  DE  DiCBTO.  [R^iffn  qf 

in  the  manuscripts  it  is  generally  continued  to  the  year 
1199  or  1200.  Gale  published  under  the  name  of  Radulph 
de  Diceto  a  short  abridgement  of  the  fabulous  British 
history^  which  is  supposed  to  be  the  same  book  that 
Wharton  says  he  saw  in  the  Norwich  library.  Some 
other  historical  tracts,  relating  chiefly  to  ecclesiastical 
affairs,  are  printed  in  the  Anglia  Sacra.  A  few  letters  by 
Radulph  de  Diceto  are  preserved  among  the  Cottonian 
manuscripts :  the  old  biographers  give  the  titles  of  theo- 
logical works  by  this  writer. 

The  historical  writings  of  Radulph  de  Diceto  are  chiefly 
valuable  for  the  copious  notices  they  contain  relating  to 
the  affairs  of  the  English  church.  He  is  not  distinguished 
in  any  other  way  from  the  ordinary  chroniclers  of  his  age. 
The  account  of  the  siege  of  Vemeuil,  in  1I73>  will  serve 
to  compare  his  style  with  that  of  the  historians  who  have 
been  spoken  of  in  the  preceding  articles. 

Ludoricos  rex  Francomm  ad  Nonnanniam  penitoa  devastandam  inniime- 
rabtlem  congrogavit  exercitum  octabia  sancti  Johaanu  Baptiate.  Anziliiriia 
«ndiqne  concarrentibiui  primo  impetu  itatoit  ddere  VemoHimi.  Fbaa  dr- 
emnqaaqae  tentoriiay  qnanam  ex  parte  primoa  experiretnr  oonatna  ndaaia 
exploratoiibiiB  coepit  mqnirera.  Reportatnm  eat  caatram  macocaaibile,  atpote 
foantis  drcumdatam,  dnctmn  moris,  propognaculia  obfirmatamy  Tins  belli- 
ooaia  ebuUieDa,  radiantiboa  annia  refertom»  Tictnalibua  multia  abundaaa,  et 
niai  longa  obsidio  fame  coarctaTerit  multitadinem  intoa  obaeaaam,  Fraud 
poterant  inani  labore  oonaimdy  vel  atteri  prorana  irreparabiU  jactara.  Ad 
ramptua  igitar  exerdtu  proTidendoa,  rdatio  neoeaearia  domidlio  cajuaque 
tranamittitar.  Per  totam  Galliam  fit  deacriptio  generalia.  Nnllua  immunltate 
gandebat.  A  aedente  in  aoUo  luque  ad  laborantem  in  mola,  yel  in  proatflralo 
dormientem,  mannm  extendere  yidebantnr  regii  exactorea.  Non  aexoi,  mm 
ordo,  non  dignitaa  a  mnneribua  aordidia  vacationem  habebat.  Persona  for- 
tmuB  iigaria  miaerabilia  ri  vel  agellnlom  poasideret  vel  asinam  nigebator 
oonferre.  Hignaoemodi  paaaim  imprecabantnr  expeditiioni,  qui  at  exerdtoi 
necessaria  miniatrarent,  distrahere  patrimonia  cogebantor ....  Intra  aepta 
Vemolii  bnignm  qnoddam  diyitibns  mixtim  et  panperibns  inbabitatam,  alto 
dananm  moro,  ceitia  diatinctom  limitibna,  proprio  designatam  Tocabnlo, 
Bnigoin  viddioet  Reginae,  qnoniam  a  tempore  obddionia  panpenun  et  debi- 
linm  intoa  foerat  mnltitndo  condnaa,  fame  coepit  periditari.    Qnod  com  ad 


RiC.  /.]  RICHARD  THE  CANON.  415 

regU  Franeomm  notitiam  perrenissety  bnrgi  portas  nbi  petiit  aperiri,  leg;Q 
proposita»  quod  si  qnis  intra  tridiram  prozimum  anbreniret  bnrgo  ooncliuiBy 
quod  imposaibile  judicabat,  ab  omsi  laeaioDe  seirarentnr  indempnea. 

EditUms. 

Twysden,  Hiatorite  Anglicans  Scriptorea  X.  Londini,  1653,  fol.  coll.  4S9 — 
710.  Radulpbi  de  Dioeto  decani  Londonienaia  Abbreviationes  Chroni- 
comm  et  Ymagines  Hiatorianun.  Nunc  primnm  edits  ez  MSS.  oodi- 
dboa  fidelitercoUatia. 

Hiatoris  Britannic»,  Saxonies,  Anglo-Danics,  Scriptorea  XV.  Ez  yetnatia 
Codd.  MSS.  Editi  opera  Hioms  Gale.  Ozonis,  1691.  fol.  pp.  553 — 
562.  Hiatoria  compendioea  de  Regibos  Britonum  per  Radnlphum 
Dioetum. 

Wbarton,  AngUa  Sacn.  London.  1691.  fol.  torn.  i.  pp.  87 — 9»  Indicnlum 
de  sncceaaione  arcbiepiacoporum  Cantnar.  et  a  qnibna  apoatolicia  pallia 
auacepemnt. — ^tom.  ii.  pp.  677 — 693,  Hiatoria  aedia  Cantnar. 


RICHARD  THE  CANON. 

Richard  thb  Canon  is  said  to  have  been  a  monk  of 
the  priory  of  the  Holy  Trinity  in  London,  about  the 
year  1200.  The  late  Mr.  Petrie,  who  had  the  opportunity 
of  comparing  the  manuscripts  preserved  at  Cambridge 
and  elsewhere,  was  of  opinion  that  the  history  of  the 
expedition  of  Richard  I.  to  Syria,  which  Gale  printed 
under  the  name  of  Geoffrey  de  Vinsauf,  is  the  work  of 
Richard  the  Canon.  It  had  previously  been  printed 
anonymously  in  the  Gesta  Dei  per  Francos.  Leland 
speaks  of  Richard  as  being  the  author  of  histories  of  this 
crusade  in  prose  and  verse,  of  which  he  had  only  seen  the 
latter.  The  Itinerarium  printed  by  Gale  is  in  prose,  but 
it  is  interspersed  with  quotations  in  verse,  and  seems  to 
be  the  work  of  one  who  was  in  the  habit  of  reading  the 
classic  writers  of  antiquity.  It  is  a  valuable  contempo- 
rary document,  and  gives  us  a  more  detailed  account  of 
the  expedition  than  any  other  chronicle.  As  a  specimen 
of  the  style  of  this  writer,  we  may  cite  one  of  the  inci- 
dents which  occurred  at  the  siege  of  Acre. 


416  WALTER  D£  COUTANGES.  [Died  1207- 

Petrariarum  hostiUvm,  qoAnua  f«lt  in  ciTitate  copia,  una  fait  incompara- 
bllia,  et  aagaltudiDe  compactes  machiiie  et  pro  Toto  torquentiam,  inaeati- 
mabilis  molia  lapidea  jacnlando  efficax.  Hajua  nihil  potait  resiatere  yehemen* 
tis.  Incredibilia  molia  qnippe  lapidea  jacebat,  emiasoa  etiam  lapidea  procul 
impetoa  egit. 

Omnia  comminuit  jactoa  qusecunque  feriret. 

Lapidea  uilulamiaiiay  qnotiea  nuUo  retardarentor  obstaculo»  unioa  pedia  Ion- 
gitudine  agebantur  in  terram  cadentes.  NonnuUaa  potrariarum  noetramm 
percutifina  in  particnlaa  diaperait,  "hH  carte  inutileB  effecit,  macbinaa  qnoqne 
aliaa  plorea  Tel  ietu  diaaolyit,  -vel  particalam  qnam  attigerat  abacidit.  Tanta 
niminim  eimt  vebementia  jacalandi»  et  impetoa  tarn  pertinax,  quod  nihil  tarn 
aolidum  vel  ita  fiiit  compactum  cujuscnnqae  materite  Tel  anbstantic,  qnod 
poaaet  inoolnme  tam  intelerabilia  percnaanra  austinere  iiq'oriam.  Hcc 
igitnr  tatia  in  qnendam  ex  noatria  hominem  lapidem  enormia  mag^nitudinia 
dedit  a  tergo,  aversa  qnippe  facie  steterat  nihil  anapicans,  aed  nee  natimana 
tam  procul  posae  lapidem  penreniase,  aed  nee  hominem  quidam  vel  in  minimp 
lieaity  imo  nee  loco  movit,  aed  reailiena  a  tergo  tanquam  a  monte  feneo  deci- 
dit  hand  procul  inefficax.  Qnem  yir  ille  reapiciena  plna  habuit  horroria  ez 
yisui  qnam  doloris  ex  ictn.  Qnia  hoc,  inquam,  non  aacriberet  divins  miaera- 
tioni  ?  quia  hoc  intelligens  non  penaaret  magna  opera  Domini,  cujoa  pro  se 
certantiboa  aemper  pneato  eat  dementia  ?  Ad  cujua  conunendandam  ubique 
merito  magnificentiam  quid  operatiua  est  aubjiciam. 

Edition. 

Hiatoria  Anglicanse  Scriptorea  quinque  ex  Tetuatia  codicibna  MSS.  nunc 
primum  in  lucem  editi.  vol.  ii.  Oxonis,  1687,  fol.  pp.  247—429,  Iti- 
nerarinm  regis  Anglomm  Richardi  et  aliorum  in  terram  Hierosolymorum, 
aaetore  Ganfrido  Viniaauf. 


WALTER    DE    COUTANCES,    AND    OTHER 
WRITERS  ON  THE  CRUSADE. 

Walter  de  Coutances  {de  Constantiis  or  de  Con- 
stantia)  is  stated  by  Giraldus  Cambrensis^*  and  by  John 
de  Hauteville^  to  have  been  a  native  of  Cornwall^  and 
to  have  been  descended  of  British  blood.  John  of  Salis- 
buryt  calls  him  Walter  de  Insida,  from  which  circmn- 

*  Ginild.  Cambr.  ap.  Angl.  Sacr.  vol.  ii.  p.  418. 
t  Epist.  187. 


Died  12070  WALTfliI  DB  COUTANCBS.  41? 

stance  the  writer  of  the  article  on  Walter  de  Coutances  in 
the  Histoire  litt^raire  de  France*  conjectures  that  he  was 
a  native  of  the  Isle  of  Jersey,  which  then  belonged  to  the 
diocese  of  Coutances  in  Normandy.  We  know  nothing 
of  his  history  until  we  find  him  in  1173  holding  the  high 
position  of  vice-chancellor  of  England,  when  we  learn 
that  he  was  also  a  canon  of  Rouen,  f  He  was  evidently 
in  very  high  favour  with  the  king,  who,  in  1177^  sent 
him  in  his  quality  as  vice-chancellor  with  Ranulph  de 
GlanviUe  on  a  mission  to  the  count  of  Flanders.j:  In 
1180  he  was  sent  with  the  bishop  of  Winchester  on  an 
embassy  to  the  court  of  France.§  Among  his  other 
ecclesiastical  dignities,  he  was  a  canon  of  Lincoln,  and 
archdeacon  of  Oxford. 

It  appears  that  the  grand  object  of  Walter's  amlntion 
was  the  bishopric  of  lisieuz,  and  that  he  used  every 
endeavour  to  persuade  or  force  bishop  Amulf  to  vacate  it 
in  his  favour.  Arnulf,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  Richard 
bishop  of  Winchester,  II  complains  bitterly  of  the  perse- 
cutions to  which  he  was  subjected  through  Walter's  in- 
fluence at  court ;  and  from  another  letterlf  it  appears  that 
he  had  offered  Amulf  money  to  pay  his  debts  on  condition 
of  his  compelling  the  chapter  to  promise  him  their  votes 
for  the  first  vacancy.  In  1183,  when  Gteoffrey,  who  had 
been  bishop  elect  of  Lincoln  several  years,  was  promoted 
to  the  archbishopric  of  York,  the  see  of  Lincoln  was  given 
to  Walter  de  Coutances,  who  was  immediately  consecrated 
at  Anjou  by  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury.**  In  less  than 

*  Tom.  ZTi.  p.  536. 

t  Rad.  de  Diceto,  coL  568. 

X  Roger  de  Hoveden,  Annal.  p.  561. 

I  Rad.  de  Dioeto,  col.  609. 

il  Anra^hi  Lexor.  Epist  ed.  GUea,  Ep.  107»  page  266. 

%  Amnlph.  ib.  Ep.  117- 

**  Rad.  de  Diceto,  col.  615. 

VOL.  n.  2  b 


418  -WALTER  Dfi  COUTANCB8.         [Died  1207« 

a  year  after  this  he  was  promoted  to  the  metropolitan  see 
of  Rouen,  a  poorer  benefice,  but  a  higher  dignity,  than  that 
which  he  left* 

From  this  period  the  name  of  the  archbishop  of  Rouen 
occurs  continually  in  connection  with  the  political  events 
of  his  age.  In  1188  he  took  the  cross,  and  engaged  him- 
self to  accompany  king  Henry  II.  in  his  intended  cru- 
sade. On  that  monarches  death  he  invested  Richard  with 
the  dukedom  of  Normandy,  and  then  hastened  to  England 
to  assist  at  his  coronation.  After  holding  a  provincial 
council  at  Rouen>  he  accompanied  king  Richard  in  his 
voyage  to  Syria^f  and  appears  to  have  enjoyed  the  entire 
confidence  of  that  monarch.  When  the  king  received 
intelligence  of  the  troubles  caused  by  the  dissensions 
between  William  de  Longchamp  and  his  opponents,  he 
sent  the  archbishop  of  Rouen  back  to  England,  with  let- 
ters  constituting  him  regent,  with  the  offices  of  chief 

justice  and  chancellor.it  ^^  ^^^  ^^^^  ^^  ^^  capacity 
of  regent,  calling  a  parliament  at  Oxford,  on  the  arrival  of 
intelligence  of  the  captivity  of  Richard  in  his  return  from 
the  Holy  Land.§  Archbishop  Walter  was  a  stanch  de- 
fender of  the  rights  of  the  church ;  and,  at  a  period  sub- 
sequent to  that  last  mentioned,  we  find  him  obstinately 
opposed  to  the  king,  when  the  latter  began  to  build  the 
Ch&teau  Gaillard  at  Andely^  which  was  a  territory  belong- 
ing to  the  church.  His  opposition  was  carried  so  fitr  that 
he  made  a  personal  appeal  to  the  pope^  who  however 
justified  the  king,  and  the  archbishop  immediately  ac- 
quiesced. ||     Walter  died  on  the  16th  of  November,  1207« 


*  W.  Neubrig.  Hist.  lib.  iii.  c.  8. 

t  Roger  de  Hoveden,  Annal.  p.  667. 

\  Roger  de  HoTeden,  Annal.  pp.  687»  706.     Rad.  de  Dicet.  col.  1231. 

§  Roger  de  Hoveden,  p.  721. 

W  Roger  de  Hoveden,  Annal.  p.  769. 


Ric^  /.}  GBRVABE  OF  CANTERBURY.  419 

The  only  writings  of  this  prelate  now  preserved  are  a 
few  letters  8ca,ttered  through  the  pages  of  contemporary 
annalists.  But  he  is  said  to  have  written  a  history  of  the 
crusadC)  which  is  not  extant,  and  which^  if  such  a  work 
ever  existed,  is  a  great  loss  to  the  historian. 
.  Another  writer,  called  by  the  old  bibliographers  Gu- 
liiBLMUS  PjBREGRiNUS,  is  Said  likewise  to  have  written  a 
history  of  king  Richard's  expedition  against  the  Saracens» 
in  Latin  verse,  which  he  dedicated  to  Hubert  archbishop 
of  Canterbury  and  Stephen  de  Tumham.  But  this  also 
appears  to  be  lost. 

Another  history  of  king  Richard  and  of  his  expedition 
to  Syria  is  said  to  have  been  written  by  one  Hugh  db 
HovEDEN,  and  to  have  been  preserved  among  the  Digby 
manuscripts  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  Tanner  quotes  the 
following  lines  from  Robert  of  Gloucester  (which  are  not 
found  in  Hearne's  edition) — 

Bat  who  BO  wole  of  his  chevalrie  knowe  or  wyte, 
Rede  he  in  the  oornycles  that  ben  of  htm  wryte, 
That  mayeter  Hew  bath  of  Howdane  ]r>wroa|te. 

It  seems,  however,  probable  that  Hugh  de  Hoveden  is 
only  an  error  for  Roger  de  Hoveden  the  annalist. 


GERVASE  OP  CANTERBURY. 

Gbbvasb  was  a  monk  of  the  priory  of  Christ's  Churchy 
Canterbury^  where  he  appears  to  have  held  the  office  of 
sacristan^  but  this  is  all  we  know  of  his  history.  He 
was  present  when  Canterbury  cathedral  was  burnt  in 
1174^  and  watched  the  progress  of  building  the  new 
church  until  the  year  1184^  the  date  of  the  election  of 
Baldwin  to  the  archbishopric,  when  he  wrote  an  account 

2  B  2 


420  GBBVABB  OF  CANTBBBURT.      [Reign  of 

of  these  erents  under  the  title  of  T^aetaiuB  de  combu»^ 
Hone  et  reparaiiane  Dorobomeneis  eccleria.  In  another 
tract,  which  was  probably  written  soon  after  the  accession 
of  archbishop  Habert  in  1193,  Gervase  gives  a  detailed 
account  of  the  dissentions  between  archbishop  Baldwin 
and  his  monks.  His  next  work,  a  history  of  the  arch- 
bishops of  Canterbury,  terminating  soon  after  the  accession 
of  Hubert,  was  probably  also  published  during  the  reign 
of  Richard  !•  His  chronicle,  of  the  reigns  of  Stephen, 
Henry  II.,  and  Richard  I.,  ends  with  the  death  of  the 
latter  monarch  in  1199,  and,  as  Gervase  states  at  the  con- 
clusion that  it  was  only  the  first  part  of  a  work  of  which 
the  second  was  to  be  devoted  to  the  reign  of  John,  it  ap* 
pears  to  have  been  compiled  in  the  first  years  of  the 
thirteenth  century.  The  second  part  appears  never  to 
have  been  written. 

A  manuscript  in  the  library  of  Corpus  Christi  College^ 
Cambridge  (No.  438),  contains  a  historical  treatise  by 
Gervase  of  Canterbury,  entitled  Mappa  Mundi,  in  two 
parts,  the  first  of  which  appears  to  consist  of  a  topogra- 
phical description  of  England  as  divided  into  counties, 
with  lists  of  the  bishops'  sees  and  monasteries  in  each ; 
and  the  second,  of  lists  of  the  archbishops  ^^  of  the  whole 
world  '^  and  of  their  suffragans.  The  same  volume  con- 
tains a  chronicle  of  England  by  Gervase,  beginning  with 
the  fabulous  ages  and  ending  with  the  death  of  Richard  I., 
the  latter  part  of  which  is  probably  the  same  as  the  printed 
chronicle. 

Gtervase  is  deserving  of  the  character,  given  to  him  by 
bishop  Nicolson,  of  a  diligent  and  judicious  historian. 
His  writings  show  great  care  in  collecting  information^ 
and  discrimination  in  using  it ;  and  his  chronicle  of  the 
reigns  of  Stephen,  Henry,  and  Richard  is  one  of  the  most 
valuable  of  the  historical  memorials  of  the  twelfth  century. 


lUc.  L]  GBRVA8E  OP  CANTERBURY.  421 

The  following  extract  from  the  prologue  to  this  chronicle 
will  serve  as  a  specimen  of  the  style  of  Gervase^  and  at 
the  same  time  show  us  his  notions  of  the  distinction 
between  a  chronicler  and  a  historian  : 

Sanctonun  Tero  oiHiodoxonim  patmm  glorioea  et  imitanda  ezempU  oon* 
tinentar  in  histoiiis  vd  aDnalibuSi  quae  alio  nomine  chronica  nuncapantnr. 
In  qnibiia  mnlta  quKrenti  sednlo  bene  Tirendi  repperinntnr  ezempla,  qnibna 
humana  ignora^tia  de  tenebris  edacitiir,  et  nt  in  bono  proftdat  edocetar. 
Historid  antem  et  chnmici  secondnm  aliquid  una  eat  intentio  et  materia^  aed 
divenas  tractandi  modna  est  et  forma  varia.  Utrinaqne  una  eat  intentio, 
quia  uterque  veritati  intendit.  Forma  tractandi  raria,  quia  hiatoricua  diflfoae 
et  deganter^incedit,  chronicus  yero  rimplidter  graditiir  et  breviter.  Projidt 
historicua  ampullaa  et  aeaquipedalia  rerba;  cbronicua'  Tero  dWeatrem 
muaam  tenui  meditatnr  avena.  Sedet  hiatoricua  mter  magniloquoa  et  grandta 
verba  aerentea,  at  duronicua  aub  panperia  amida  pauaat  tngnrio  ne  ait  pugna 
pro  panpere  tecto.  Froprium  eat  historid  veritati  intendere,  audientea  vd 
legentea  duld  aermone  et  deganti  demulcere,  actna,  morea,  vitamque  ipdua 
quem  deacribit  edooere,  nihilque  aliud  comprdiendere  niai  quod  hiatori»  da 
ratione  videtur  competere.  Chronicua  autem  annoa  incamationia  Domini 
annorumque  menaea  computat  et  kalendas,  actua  etiam  regum  et  prindpum 
quae  in  ipna  eveniunt  breviter  edocet,  erentna  etiam,  portenta,  vd  miracula 
commemorat.  Sunt  autem  plurimi  qui  chronicaa  yel  annalea  acribentea 
limitea  auoa  excedunt,  nam  philacteria  aua  dilatare  et  fimbriaa  magnificare 
ddectant.  Dum  enim  chronicam  compilare  cupiunt,  hiatorici  more  inoedunt, 
et  quod  breviter  aermoneque  hnmili  de  modo  acribendi  dicere  debuerantt 
verbia  ampulloais  aggravare  conantur. 

Bdiiion. 

Hiatoris  AngUcanae  Scriptorea  X.  (Twyaden).  Londini,  1652.  fbl.  coll. 
1285—1684.  Oervaaii  monachi  Dorobemenaia  dve  Cantuarienaia. 
Tractatua  de  oombustione  et  reparatione  Dorobomenaia  ecdeaic :  Ima« 
ginationea  de  discordiia  inter  monachoa  Cantuariensea  et  ardiiepiacopum 
Baldewinum :  Chronica  de  tempore  regum  Angliae  Stephani,  Hen.  II. 
et  Ricardi  I.  Vit«  Dorobomenuum  archiepiaooporum, 

A  Report  of  the  Prooeedinga  of  the  Britiah  Arehteobgical  Aaaodatton ;  at 
the  firat  General  Meeting,  held  at  Canterbury,  in  the  month  of  Sep- 
tember, 1844.  Edited  by  Alfred  John  Dunkin.  London,  1845,  8vo. 
pp.  194 — S40.  Genra^e'a  account  of  the  burning  and  repairing  the 
church  of  Canterbury. 


422  RADULPH  NIGER.  [Reifffl  o/ 


RADULPH  NIGER. 

Radulph,  better  known  by  the  Latin  surname  of 
Niger,  is  said  by  Tanner  to  have  been  born  at  Bury,  in 
Suffolk ;  and  it  appears  from  the  inedited  preface  to  one 
of  his  theological  works  that  he  studied  at  Paris  under 
Girard  la  Pucelle.  At  the  beginning  of  one  of  his  theo- 
logical works  he  is  entitled  archdeacon  of  Gloucester. 
He  was  a  violent  partizan  of  Becket,  and  for  his  activity 
against  the  king  he  was  driven  into  exile,  in  revenge  for 
which  he  wrote  a  most  calumnious  account  of  the  cha- 
racter of  Henry  II.,  after  that  monarch's  death.  As  the 
chronicle  to  which  this  character  is  attached  is  very  slight, 
and  of  no  importance,  we  can  only  imagine  that  he  wrote 
it  for  the  purpose  of  publishing  a  libel.  A  continuator 
has  brought  it  down  in  one  MS.  (MS.  Cotton,  Vespas.  D.  x.) 
to  1178,  and  in  another  (MS.  Reg.  13  A.  XII.)  to  1206, 
A  considerable  portion  of  Radulph  Niger's  chronicle  ap- 
pears to  be  merely  abridged  from  William  of  Malmsbury. 

There  is  another  chronicle,  somewhat  more  diffuse,  in 
MS.  Cotton,  Cleopat.  C.  x.,  also  by  Radulph  Niger,  who, 
at  fol.  50,  gives  a  list  of  his  own  writings  in  these  words : 
Rodulphm  Niger  scripsit  vij\  digesta  super  EptaHctim; 
scripsit  ei  Moralia  Regumy  et  Epitomen  Veteris  Testamenti^ 
in  Paralipomenony  et  Remediarium  in  Esdram;  scripsit 
eiiam  libmm  de  re  mUitari  et  tribus  viis  peregrinationis 
SierosolymitawB,  et  libmm  de  quatuor  festivitatibus  beatte 
Maria  virginis,  et  librum  de  interpretationibtis  HebrcRorum 
nominum  ;  scripsit  et  luec  Chronica. 

Most  of  the  theological  works  indicated  in  this  list  were 
preserved  among  the  manuscripts  of  Lincoln  Cathedral. 


Ric.  /•]  RADULPH  NIOBR.  42S- 

Radulph^s  Chronicles  occur  not  very  unfrequently  in 
manuscripts  of  the  thirteenth  century.  The  following  is 
the  latter  part  of  his  character  of  Henry  11.^  with  the 
observations  of  the  writer  who  continued  the  chronicle. 

Corroptns  a  Ricardo  archiepiscopo  monetam  corrampi  permisit,  cormp- 
tores  tandem  saspendio  decedere  compelleiiB.  ATibas  cceli,  piscibus  flami- 
nam,  bestiis  terrse,  immniiitateai  dedit,  et  sata  paapenim  loca  pascun  fecit. 
Cansam  fidei  laes»  et  advocationiB  ecclesiamm  in  curia  decidi  constituit. 
E^lectionis  jus  ita  ddintvit  quod  toto  sui  regni  spacio  nee  unus  ex  millibas 
canonice  sit  promotus.  Vulgns  inauditum  maoibus  et  pedibua  tnincavit. 
Comites  et  episcopos  in  servitatem  fossandi  et  cceterornm  operam  Berrilium 
coegit.  Tribntarius  ezteria,  in  domeaticos  pnedo,  scutagiis,  recognitionibua, 
et  variia  angariarum  allavionibus  fere  omnes  depreasit.  Omne  jus  poli  jure 
fori  demutavit.  Scripta  autentica  omnium  enervavit.  Libertatibua  omn'um 
inaidiana  qnaai  e  apecula,  solotenna  egit  innoxiomm  mnuicipia.  Filias  misere 
conditionia  corruptaa  et  oppreaaaa  copulana  clariaaimis,  haeredea  omnes  me- 
chanicos  creavit.  Serbia  generoaaa  copulana,  pedane»  conditionia  fecit  uni- 
▼eraoa.  Hnreditatea  retinuit,  aut  Tendidit,  fortonam  aemper  in  exitu  prater 
dnofl  annoa  vitas  ultimoa  blandam  expertoa.  Ezin  aacta  ei  inaolentia,  nihil 
intemeratnm  reliqait,  nihil  intactnm  pneteriit,  et  totua  in  anro  anrum  eaurie- 
bat,  aitiebat,  anhelabat,  et  creacentem  auri  cnmulnm  vincebat  avaritia.  Ora- 
torinm  ingreaaua,  pictnrae  aut  ansurro  vacabat,  horaa  regulares  quaai  aconitum 
fogiebat.  Preabyteroa  innoxios  oompeditos  habnit  in  vincalta»  nullam  dis- 
tinctionem  habena  clerici  vel  matici,  abbatia  vel  cerdonia,  monachi  yel  peda- 
ciae.  In  cauaia  diiTerendia  cayilaciaaimoa,  ut  aaepe  joa  venderet.  Episcopa- 
tua  vacantea  electione  din  auapendit,  nt  eia  dintiua  abuteretur,  et  cnm  priua 
debeant  clerici  et  monachi  in  epiacopos  et  abbatea  canonice  eligi  quam  con- 
aecrari  vel  benedici,  hodie  priua  in  Anglia  conaecrantur  et  benedicuntur. 
Nnnquam  enim  elignntur,  aed  a  laicia  intmduntur.  Inter  eligentea  aerena 
diaoordiaa,  quod  ei  etiam  inter  filioa  consuetiaaimnm,  nt  ^actionem  propriam 
aliena  malignitate  obnuberet.     Ethtec  ei  cauaa  excidii  prsecipua. 

Hucuaqne  protraxit  banc  chronicam  magiater  Radulphus  Niger,  quiaccuaa- 
tua  apud  prsdictum  principem  et  in  exilium  pulana,  ob  eipulaionis  injuriam 
atrociora  quam  decuit  de  tanto  ac  tarn  aereniasimo  rege  mordaci  atilo  con- 
acripait,  magniticoa  ejus  actus  quibua  inaignis  ubiqoe  habebatur  reticendo, 
atque  prava  ejus  opera  abaque  alicujoa  excuaationia  palliatione  replicando, 
cum  pleraque  de  his  quse  commemoravit  in  pluribna  articnlia  aliquantulam 
admittant  excuaalionem,  ai  geatorum  ejua  intentio  justo  libramine  ponderetur, 
ai  regise  poteatatis  lubrica  libertas  penaetur,  quae  fere  cunctia  potentibus  dat 
licere  quod  Ubet,  quorum  Titiia  facile  favent  inferiorea,  proni  ad  imitandum, 
prompt!  ad  aduUndum,  cnm  et  impunitaa  praeatet  audaciam,  divitiae  vero 
acuant  et  accendant  culpam. 


k  ^M." 


424  WILLIAM  OF  RAM8XY.  [ReiffH  o/ 


WILLIAM  OP  RAMSEY. 

William  of  Ramsby  is  known  as  a  writer  of  lives  of 
English  saints.  He  appears  to  have  been  a  native  of  the 
place  from  which  he  took  his  name;  and  subsequently 
became  a  monk  of  Croyland.  We  know  no  more  of  his 
personal  history,  which,  in  fact^  is  very  obscure.  One  of 
his  earliest  works  was  perhaps  the  Life  and  Miracles  of 
the  Saxon  Waltheof,  who  had  been  beheaded  by  William 
the  Conqueror  and  buried  at  Croyland,  of  which  place  he 
had  been  a  benefactor,  and  where  popular  love  and  super- 
stition afterwards  venerated  him  as  a  saint.  In  the  title 
to  this  tract  the  author  is  styled  simply  a  monk  of  Croyland, 
and  in  subsequent  parts  of  the  tract  the  events  are  twice 
brought  down  to  the  year  1219,  and  the  abbacy  of  Henry 
de  Longchamp.  William  of  Ramsey  also  wrote,  in  Latin 
verse,  lives  of  St.  Outhlac,  king  Edmund  the  Martyr,  St. 
Birin,  and  St.  Fredemund,  once  preserved  in  a  manuscript 
in  the  Cottonian  library  (Vitellius,  D.  xiv.),  which  perished 
in  the  fire.  Other  copies  appear,  however,  to  be  contained 
in  a  manuscript  in  the  public  library  of  the  University  of 
Cambridge.  The  life  of  Guthlac  was  dedicated  to  Henry 
de  Longchamp,  abbot  of  Croyland  (a.  d.  1191 — 1236); 
and  that  of  St.  Birin  to  Peter  de  Rupibus,  bishop  of  Win- 
chester, and  therefore  after  1204.  A  Life  of  St.  Neot  is 
also  ascribed  to  this  writer,  but  it  seems  rather  uncertain 
which  of  the  lives  of  that  saint,  found  anonymously  in 
several  manuscripts,  ought  to  be  assigned  to  him.  His 
name  is  attached  in  a  comparatively  modem  hand  to  the 
Life  of  St.  Neot  in  a  Cottonian  manuscript  (MS.  Cotton. 


JRtC.  /.]  W1LI.IAM   OF  &AM8KY*  ^5 

Claud.  A^v.).*  It  is  stated  in  a  manuscript  of  the  end 
of  the  fourteenth  century,  that  William,  monk  of  Ramsey, 
wrote  thirty  homilies  on  the  Song  of  Solomon,t  but  it 
seems  doubtful  whether  this  be  the  same  person  or  not. 

William^s  life  of  Waltheof  is  only  valuable  as  contain- 
ing a  curious  romantic  legend,  relating  to  the  origin  of 
Waltheof 's  family.  Otherwise  it  is  neither  remarkable 
for  the  style  in  which  it  is  written  nor  important  for  the 
historical  information  it  contains.  Perhaps. the  best  ex- 
ample of  the  Latinity  of  this  writer  will  be  furnished  by 
one  of  the  miracles. 

Qwiit/er  adoleteens  eacuB  in  eodem  loco  prUiino  oeuUtrum  himM  $U 

reddiius. 

Sequent!  qnoque  tempore,  id  est  xr.  kalendas  Jiinii»  de  viUa  que  eft 
super  Bmneewaldy  Ludiugton  Tocitata,  tributum  monasterio  sancti  Benedicti 
prsbeute  de  Ramesia,  crebrescente  ubique  ramore  sanctitatis  beati  Waldevi, 
▼enit  quidam  adolesoens,  nomine  Radulfus,  oculorum  officio  diu  pri^atus. 
Monachns  etenim  Ulius  ecclestse,  nomine  Godricus,  una  oum  ductore  sno  ad 
tumbam  sancti  Waldevi  ilium  adduzit,  eodem  rogante  attentius.  Qui  com  ibi- 
dem in  oratione  prostratns  permansisseti-non  iUa  sed  subsequent!  nocte,  circa 
sonitum  matutin»  synaxeos,  sopore  levi  jam  inundatus  et  quasi  semiyigilanSy 
vidit  quendam  egregia  valde  forma  Timm  de  sepuiohro  surgere,  cattumque  ab 
eo  nigrum,  qnem  in  coUo  gerere  sibi  etecns  ipse  Yidebatur,  eztractum  longius 
prqjicere.  Quod  dum  fieret,  oonfestim  expereotus  qno  tenebatur  somno, 
miseratione  divina  vidit  candelas  et  cereos  circa  idem  sepulcbrum  accensos. 
Facto  igitur  mane,  ejnsdem  ecelesiaB  oonventns  oomperto  miraculo  cni  nihil 
est  impossibile  laudaverunt  Dondnum,  qui  est  soUmen  et  ezpectatio  sancto- 
rum suorum.  Idem  autem  juvenis  de  irilla  qua  renit  testimonium  multis 
illuminationi  iUius  perhibenttbus,  pro  adepta  miraculi  l«titia  a  fratribus  adhuc 
reteutus,  plane  videns  in  eadem  seryit  eeclesia. 

Edition». 

Chroniques  Anglo-Normandes  .  .  .  public  par  Franoisque  Michel.  Tome 
Second.  Rouen,  1636.  8to.  pp.  99—142.  TiU  et  Passio  Waldevi 
comitis.    Miracula  sancti  Waldevi  gloriosi  martyris. 

*  On  the  lives  of  St.  Neot,  see  Oorham's  History  of  St.  Neot*s,  voL  i. 
pp.  247—970,  and  Whitaker*s  Life  of  St.  Neot,  8vo.  Lond.  1809. 

t  Gulielmus  monacbus   de  Ramsey  scripstt   super  Cantica  CantiooruiiL 
omelias  xxz.     MS.  Cotton.  Claud.  E.  iv.  fol.  353,  v*>. 


420  WILLIAM  THB  CLERK.  [Aei^m  of 


WILLIAM  THE  CLERK. 

This  poet^  or  trouvfere,  was  a  native  of  Normandy ; 
he  was  a  clerk^  although  be  wrote  in  Anglo-Norman 
instead  of  L^tin,  and  often  chose  profane  subjects ;  and  be 
lived  in  the  reign  of  king  John.  The  poem  by  which  he 
is  best  known,  and  whicb  seems  by  the  number  of  manu- 
scripts remaining  to  have  been  most  popular,*  is  a  metri- 
cal Bestiary,  or  treatise  on  Natural  History  as  it  was  then 
taught,  with  moralizations  giving  a  symbolical  interpreta- 
tion and  application  of  the  properties  and  characteristics 
of  the  different  animals  described  in  it.  The  author  tells 
us  in  the  following  opening  lines  that  this  work  was 
written  when  Philippe  Auguste  held  the  crown  of  France 
and  during  the  interdict  to  which  England  was  subjected 
under  king  John,  and  complains  of  the  corruption  of 
manners  which  was  then  too  prevalent  in  the  court  of 
England  as  well  as  in  that  of  Rome. 

Qui  ben  comence  e  bein  define, 
Co  est  verity  seive  e  fine, 
En  totes  OTeraigoes  en  deit 
Estre  loez,  qui  que  ii  seit. 
Livre  de  bone  comenfaile, 
Qoi  avera  bone  definale 
E  bon  dit  e  bone  matyre, 
Vielt  GttUlame  en  Romans  dire. 
De  bon  Latin  ob  il  le  troeve 
Ceste  oveiiagne  fa  fete  noeve 
£1  tens  qae  Fhelipe  tint  France, 


*  Our  extracts  are  taken  from  MS.  Reg.  16  E.  VIII.     Another  copy  of 
*the  Beaiiaire  DivinSf  as  it  is  commonly  entitle  J,  is  found  in  MS.  Cotton» 
Vespas.  A.  VII. 


JoAn.]  WILLIAM  THE  CLERK.  427 

El  tens  de  la  grant  meseatannce 
Que  Engletere  fu  entreditef 
Si  qQ*il  n'i  avoit  mease  dite, 
Ne  cors  xms  en  tere  sacr^. 
De  Tentredit  ne  lui  agiie 
Que  k  eeste  foiz  plus  en  die.* 
For  90  que  drieture  meodie» 
E  leaut6  est  povre  e  basse. 
Tote  eeste  dMMe  trespasse 
Guillame,  que  ferment  s'en  delt 
Qu'il  n'ose  dire  goe  que  il  yeil 
De  la  tricherie  que  eurt 
En  l*une  e  en  I'autre  curt. 
Mab  k  plus  halt  dire  se  prent ; 
Kar  en  oest  livre  tos  aprent 
Natures  de  bestes  et  mors, 
Non  de  tutes,  meis  de  plasors, 
OU  mult  avera  morality, 
E  boa  pas  de  dhdnit^, 
Oh  l*em  purra  essample  aprendre 
De  bein  fere  e  de  bein  apvendre. 
Rimes  iert  par  consonancie : 
Li  clers  fud  nez  de  Normendie 
Qui  auctor  est  de  cest  Romaunx. 

The  author  begins  his  treatise  with  an  account  of  the 
lion^  and  next  proceeds  to  describe  in  their  order  the 
principal  beasts,  birds,  and  fishes  then  known,  including 
dome  of  a  very  doubtful  character.  The  account  of  the 
syren  will  give  the  best  notion  of  the  style  and  character 
of  the  moralizations  with  which  these  descriptions  are 
accompanied. 

La  sereine  que  si  ben  chante, 
E  par  son  chant  les  gens  enchantCy 
Done  essample  ii  ceus  chastier 
Que  par  cest  monde  deivent  nijer. 
Nos  qui  par  cest  monde  passom, 


*  i.  e.  "  it  does  not  please  him  to  say  more  at  this  time  of  the  interdict." 
It  is  necessary  to  point  this  out»  as  the  abb^  de  la  Rue,  taking  only  half  the 
sentence,  has  stated  in  his  account  of  William  that  the  poet  disapproved  of 
the  Interdict  itself. 


428  WILLIAM  TUB  CLSiuL.  [Reign  of 

Som«t  deoeni  par  td  son, 
Paur  Teine  glorie  qui  nos  oodt^ 
De  oest  mond  e  le  delit. 
Qnuit  le  delit  ayom  amon, 
La  luxorie  lese  del  con, 
La  glatonie,  le  yreresce, 
L'aise  del  lit  et  la  richesoe, 
Lais  palefroiz,  les  chevals  graa. 
La  nobleoe  dea  riche  drag. 
Tos  jon  noB  traium  cele  part, 
De  llL  yenir  nua  est  malt  tart ; 
«  Iloeqnes  tant  noB  delitum, 

Que  tot  \  force  nos  i  demonun. 
E  done  nos  ocdt  la  sereine, 
C'est  li  malfex  qui  mal  nus  mainep 
Que  tant  nos  ftdt  plunger  eg  Tioes, 
Qu'il  nos  endot  dedens  ses  lioes : 
Done  nos  asaut  e  cort  surot 
Si  nos  occit  e  nos  aoore, 
Ausi  come  lea  sereinea  fbnt 
Les  mariners  qui  par  mer  yont. 
Meis  il  i  ad  meint  mariner 
Qui  se  set  ben  garder  et  gaitier, 
Quant  il  vet  aiglant  par  la  mer 
Ses  oreilles  prent  k  estoper, 
Qu*il  n*oie  cant  que  le  deceit  { 
Tot  ensement  faire  le  deit 
Li  horn  qui  passe  par  cest  monde,  &c. 

The  abb^  de  la  Rue  has  stated  erroneously  that  the 
trouvere  William  speaks  from  time  to  time  of  the  his- 
torical events  of  his  age  in  the  moralizations  of  the  Besti- 
ary ;  in  one  instance  only,  when  speaking  of  the  fidelity  of 
the  turde  dove,  he  breaks  into  the  following  reflections 
on  the  melancholy  position  of  the  church  in  England  at 
the  time  he  was  writing : 

Quant  Tautor  qui  rima  cest  liyre 
Dereit  vjl  entor  escriyre, 
Mult  eateit  tristes  e  dolanx, 
Car  jk  ayeit  est£  dos  ans 
Seinte  yglise  si  doleroae, 
E  si  mate  e  si  pooruse, 
Que  quidouent  par  folie 


JohfL]  WILLIAM  THB  CLBRK.  429 

Que  fon  M)poe  l^B8t  guerpie. 
Car  ele  ne  font  le  chef  lever ; 
Poi  i  entrout  gent  pur  vier 
En  trestot  rygUaee  d'Engletere. 
Mvlt  erC  la  dnme  en  San  gverre 
Pitf  tot4e  reehne  k  oel  jor, 
E  en  peril  e  en  dolor ; 
Car  si  enfant  demeinement 
Li  moreient  tomeiementy 
Le  phifl  de  la  dMevalerie, 
Fins  qn'en  one  mahomerie 
N'i  entnaent  k  oel  termine. 
Mult  cateit  eu  grant  discipline 
Tbmi  e  en  dudtiTeisony 
N*avoit  mds  gent  si  petit  non 
En  tote  Bretainge  le  grant 
One  ne  Inst  false  e  mesereant, 
Par  I'ayoir  qae  il  gnanoient 
Des  yglises  qn*il  gardoient, 
Erent  li  phis  halt  k  derise 
Contre  la  pes  de  seinte  yglise. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  poem^  William  praises  bis 
patron,  named  sire  Ralph,  but  he  gives  us  no  particulars 
iMrhich  could  lead  to  the  discovery  who  this  sire  Ralph 
was.  The  Hues  in  which  his  name  occurs  offer  a  singular 
example  of  philological  flattery. 

Gnillame,  qui  ceet  livre  fist, 
En  la  deflnaiile  tant  dist 
De  sire  Raol  sun  sdgnnr, 
Par  qai  il  Alt  en  cast  labor, 
Qai  li  ad  ben  goerdoni, 
Pramis  loi  ad  e  bein  dim^, 
Ben  lai  ad  corenant  tenn. 
A  Raol  est  ben  «vena ; 
Car  11  ad  son  non  aempli, 
Ne  Tad  mie  mis  en  abli. 
Tel  est  come  son  non  derise ; 
E  jo  m'en  lo  de  son  senrise. 
Cest  non  Raol  sone  grant  chose : 
Ore  Tos  enprendrai  la  glose. 
Treis  stUi^bbes  i  ad  saani  plos, 
Le  ra  e  le  dul  e  l^fiu^ 
Le  m  est  pris  de  raciOf 


430^  WILLIAM  TBB  CLBBK.  [I^eigtt  of . 

E  le  dui  veint  de  duletdo, 
E  le  teirce  sillabe/ir* 
Dist  aatre  taunt  come/uliui. 
Si  le  non  est  k  dreit  glos^» 
^Uhu  eirt  en  ml  lea  pos^ ; 
Dane  tait/uUMM  undiqwe 
Jtaeione  duleedUte» 
Cert  non  Raol  ert  apin^ 
E  de  raison  e  de  pite ; 
Flt^,  dnlcori  e  reiaon, 
Ont  en  son  qner  Iklt  meiaon. 

In  his  advanced  years  William  composed  another  poem 
of  a  moral  tendency^  entitled  Le  Besant  de  Dieu,  of  which 
a  copy  is  preserved  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris.  We 
can  only  describe  this  poem  after  the  account  of  it  given 
by  M.  de  la  Rue,  who  says  that  it  was  written  in  1226. 
The  term  besani  was  applied  in  the  middle  ages  to  a  coin ; 
and  the  poet,  meditating  on  the  actions  of  his  past  life, 
says  that  he  has  not  turned  his  talents,  the  besant  or  coin 
entrusted  to  every  man  by  his  creator,  to  so  good  profit 
as  God  will  expect  from  hinu  Among  his  other  sins,  he 
confesses  that  he  has  too  often  employed  his  pen  on  pro-* 
fane  subjects^  tales  and  fabUauz. 

GniUanme,  una  den  qui  fa  Normani, 
Chu  vereifia  en  Romans» 
Fablea  et  oonlea  aoleit  dire. 
En  fole  et  en  vaine  maftira 
Pecha  Borent,  Dens  11  pardont ! 
Molt  aima,  lea  delita  M  mond. 

As  an  act  of  contrition  he  determines  to  compose  a  work 
of  greater  utility. 

Pensa  Goillaame  qu'il  fereit 
Vers  consonans,  oh  Ven  porroit 
Prendre  essample  et  bone  matire 
Del  monde  hair  et  despire, 
Et  de  nosti«  aeignor  servir 
Tant  come  Tome  en  a  IdAr, 


John.]  WILLIAM  THE  CLBRK»  451 

He  b^ins  by  describing  the  duties  of  kings  and  princes 
and  their  courtiers^  blames  their  love  of  war^  and  exclaims 
against  the  ambition  of  the  pope  and  the  exactions  of 
his  legates.  The  besamts  entrusted  to  the  great  and  the 
powerful  in  church  and  state  are  the  power^  dignities^ 
riches,  science,  and  talents,  which  God  has  conferred  upon 
them,  and  the  poet  shows  how  they  are  all  abused.  Wil- 
liam expresses  strong  disapprobation  of  the  war  against 
the  Albigeois,  undertaken  by  the  French  king  at  the  insti-^ 
gation  of  the  pope.  Many  of  the  French  engaged  in  this 
crusade  were,  he  says,  more  sinful  than  the  people  they 
persecuted. 

Que  dira  Deus  i,  ces  Franceis, 
Qui  preisiea  cbeTalera  ont. 
Qui  par  derant  croiier  se  font 
Solent  contre  oes  Albigeia  ? 
II  i  a  ploson  de  oes  Franceia 
Qai  antretaat  k  blaamer  sent 
Come  soot  cil  aur  qui  il  Tont. 

He  blames  the  papal  court  as  the  cause  of  this  unnatural 
war. 

Quant  Franceis  Tont  sor  Tolosains, 
Qa'il  tiennent  k  Pablicaina» 
£t  la  legacie  Romaine 
Lea  i  conduit  et  lea  i  maine, 
N'eat  mie  Men»  ee  m'eat  avis; 
Bona  et  mala  sont  en  tos  paia ; 
£t  por  9eo  Telt  Deua  qu'on  atende, 
Car  mult  U  plaiat  que  bome  amende. 

At  the  time  he  was  concluding  his  poem,  death  had  just 
carried  off  the  French  king,  Louis  YIIL,  in  the  midst  of 
his  ambitious  projects  against  the  devoted  Provenyals. 

Al  contemple  que  Us  ces  vera, 
Avoit  la  mort  jet^  envera 
Le  rei  de  France  Loeia, 
Qui  ert  laan  de  aon  paia 
Por  autrui  terre  purchaaaer ; 
•  *  Lea  Proren^iau»  cnida  cbacer,. 


432  wiLi^iAii  THE  CL.BRK.  IRdgn  of 

Lea  ToloMinf  prendre  et  honir, 
£t  quant  il  coida  tut  tenir 
Tnit  giiaig;ner  et  tut  aveuTy 
Si  U  ftilli  tut  eon  eepeir. 
De  France  ne  de  Normandiey 
Ne  de  tute  sa  eeignearie, 
Ne  dee  grana  terrei  q'il  teneit, 
On  ftiflt  i  tort  on  ftiit  \k  dieit, 
N'ot  que  eiet  pieds  tant  eolement, 
A  tant  rerint  eon  tenement. 

M.  de  la  Rue  states  that  this  poem  extends  to  3,7^8  lines. 
William  was  also  the  author  of  a  metrical  romance 
belonging  to  the  cycle  of  the  round  table^  entitled  lA 
Momans  des  Aventures  Fregua»  The  scene  of  this  story  is 
laid  in  Scotland  i  Fregus  is  the  son  of  a  peasant,  ambitious 
of  becoming  a  knight,  an  honour  which  he  receives  at  the 
hands  of  king  Arthur.  He  then  sets  out  in  search  of 
adventurous  exploits,  defeats  the  Black  Knight  who  had 
insulted  the  British  monarch,  and  gains  renown  far  and 
near.  In  the  course  of  his  adventures  he  obtains  the  love 
of  a  young  lady  of  great  beauty  named  Ghdlienne.  The 
separation  of  the  two  lovers,  and  their  adventures  in  search 
of  each  other,  occupy  the  greater  part  of  the  poem.  At 
the  conclusion,  the  author  makes  us  acquainted  with  his 
name,  and  there  appears  no  reason  for  doubting  that  he 
was  the  same  William  who  wrote  the  Bestiaire  and  the 
Besant  de  Dieu, 

GniUaumeali  clera  tnit  k  fin 
De  ea  matere  et  de  sa  tmeve  ; 
Car  en  nule  terre  ne  tmeve 
Nnl  homme  ki  tant  ait  veica. 
Don  chevalier  an  biel  esca 
Plna  en  ayant  conter  ne  saehe. 
Ichi  mec  la  bonne  et  Testache, 
Et  cbi  est  la  fins  dou  Roumanch ; 
Soit  pais  et  salus  as  escoutans  1 

We  have  seen  that,  in  the  Besant  de  DieUj  Guillaume 
acknowledges  having  composed  fabliaux  and  tales.    One 


John."]  WILLIAM  t4ie  clebk.  433. 

of  these  has  been  printed  in  the  last  edition  of  the  collec- 
tion of  Barbazan,  under  the  title  of  Duprestre  et  d* Alison ^ 
the  subject  and  manner  of  treating  of  which  rank  it  among 
the  most  licentious  of  this  class  of  medieval  poetry»  In 
the  opening  lines  the  author  boasts  of  having  composed 
many  similar  pieces* 

n  8ont  mais  tant  de  meneBtrez, 

Que  ne  sai  k  dire  desquez 

Ge  suiy  par  le  con  saint  Huitace  1 

Gnillaumey  qui  Bovent  le  lasse 

En  rimer  et  en  fabloier, 

En  a  un  fSut  qui  molt  est  elder, 

De  la  fille  d'une  borgoise 

Qui  meint  en  la  riviere  d'Oise. 

The  only  other  fabliau^  however,  which  is  known  to 
exist  as  the  work  of  a  trouvere  of  this  name,  is  a  short 
story  of  a  different  description  from  the  one  last  mentioned: 
it  is  entitled  De  la  male  honte,  and  has  also  been  printed 
in  the  collection  of  Barbazan.  The  author  merely  names 
himself  William^  and  makes  no  allusion  to  his  country  or 
profession.  M.  de  la  Rue  attributes  to  William  the  Clerk 
a  third  fabliau,  entitled  La  file  h  la  bourffeoise^  but  this 
is  perhaps  only  another  title  for  the  fabliau  Du  presire  et 
d^ Alison,  founded  on  the  words  of  the  seventh  line  of  the 
extract  given  above* 

Bdiiima. 

Fabliaux  et  Contes  des  pontes  Fran9oi8  des  xi,  xii,  xiii,  xiv,  et  xt  si^cles. 

Publics  par  Barbazan.  NouTelle  Edition  (By  Meon).  Tome  troisi^me. 

Paris,  1808.  8vo.  pp.  210 — 815.  De  la  male  honte.— Tome  quatrieme. 

pp.  427—441.  Du  prestre  et  d'AUson,  par  Guillaume  le  Normand. 
Le  Roman  des  Aventures  de  Fregus,  par  GuiUaume  le  derc,  trouvere  du 

treizl^me  sitele.    Public,  pour  la  premiere  fois,  par  Francisque  Micbel, 

Edimbourgy  imprim^  pourle  Club  d'Abbotsford.  1841,  4to. 


VOI-.  H.  2  F 


434  TH0MA8  D%  BAILLKVLt  [Aei^  o/ 


THOMAS  DE  BAILLEUL. 

Wfi  can  only  repeat  the  account  of  this  trottv^e  given 
by  M.  de  la  Rue^  without  being  able  to  verify  its  aoctt^^ 
curacy ;  for  he  has  given  a  wrong  referenee  to  the  only  MS* 
containing  the  poem  attributed  to  him^  which  he  states 
to  be  in  the  British  Museum,  MS.  Reg.  20  B.  XVII. 
As  far  as  we  have  been  able  to  ascertain,  there  is  no  manu- 
script in  the  British  Museum  answering  to  the  abbe  de  la 
Rue's  description ;  and  we  suspect  that  he  intended  to 
refer  to  some  manuscript  in  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris, 
He  supposes  the  author  to  be  the  same  Thomas  de  Bail- 
leul  who  in  1205  received  in  fief  one  of  the  rents  payable 
to  the  exchequer  in  London ;  but  he  does  not  tell  us  in 
what  way  the  name  is  attached  to  the  poem  in  question, 
which  he  describes  as  '^  a  tale,  or  rather  a  critique  on  the 
conduct  of  king  John,  who  made  so  many  vain  efforts  to 
repossess  himself  of  Normandy." 

The  poet,  he  says,  begins  his  narrative  with  a  charming 
description  of  spring ;  he  sings  the  mildness  of  the  spring, 
the  beauty  of  the  roads,  the  elegance  of  the  country 
damsels  who  pass  along  them,  the  poor  man  who  rejoices 
to  bask  with  his  children  in  the  sun,  the  joy  of  the 
shepherds,  the  lark  which  charms  them  with  its  song>  the 
youth  of  the  towns  coming  to  respire  the  pure  air  of 
the  country.  He  goes  on  to  say  that  at  this  season,  in 
the  beginning  of  the  month  of  May,  near  a  town  built  by 
the  Saracens  in  the  marshes  of  Anesin,  appear  suddenly 
two  powerful  armies ;  they  approach  each  other,  are  on 
the  point  of  engaging,  and  a  sanguinary  combat  appears 
inevitable.  On  one  side  are  the  Persians,  the  Greeks,  the 
Sicilians,  the  Lombards,  the   Toulousans^  the  Gascons, 


JohnJ2  THOMAS  D£  BAILLEUL.  435 

the  Limousins^  andthePoitevins;  on  the  other  the  Africans^ 
the  Esclavons,  the  Germans^  the  Burgundians^  the  Picards^ 
the  Normans^  the  French,  and  the  Angevins.  Counts 
palatine  command  the  two  hosts,  which  are  composed  of 
knights  of  the  highest  rank.  M.  de  la  Rue  gives  the 
following  extract  descriptive  of  the  alarm  of  the  women 
produced  by  the  appearance  of  these  two  armies : 

£t  les  dames  estoient  haut  el  palais  marbrin, 
Asnsei  as  fenefltres,  d'ennuy  le  chief  eticliii, 
Let  dtttx  Of  rogardoient  oil  il  ot  grant  tiutia 
De  labours  et  de  trompes  de  maint  cors  TYOrin, 
Dont  cascone  y  ayoit  son  frere  et  sou  oousln, 
On  ton  loyal  ami  qn'el  aimolt  de  daar  flu. 
S*elea  fnrent  doleatea,  droit  est  par  Baint  Martin ! 
*'  Lasse  1"  dist  la  royne,  *'  maint  enfant  orfenin 
SerOnt  de  cette  ^erre,  ^1  a  cruel  destin, 
Aim  na  fut  tel  damage  depuii  k  rol  Pepin  I '' 

The  poet  then  desoribet  the  arrangement  of  the  two 
armies^  the  different  weapons  of  the  combatants^  and  the 
courage  which  inflames  them.  But  when  we  expect  to 
see  the  battle  begin^  the  author  suddenly  ends  hi»  story 
with  these  lines  s-*— 

Joti  qui  toua  sattls  estoie  desotts  un  aubaspiBf 
Vis  entre  les  deux  os  yenir  un  palerin, 
Qui  toua  les  apaisa  de  plain  banap  de  vin« 

So  far  the  reference  to  the  politics  of  the  reign  of  king 
John  is  not  very  evident  t  but  M.  de  la  Rue  tells  us  in 
conclusion,  **  At  the  head  of  the  poem  appears  a  miniature, 
whire  we  see  the  two  armies,  and  the  pilgrim  bet^'een 
them.  As  the  chiefs  who  command  them  have  their 
armorial  bearings  painted  on  their  shields,  we  might  by 
these  heraldic  signs  discover  with  certainty  the  event  on 
which  the  poet  intended  to  throw  ridicule.  I  only  re- 
cognized the  arms  of  the  Bailleuls  of  Scotland,  gueules 
with  the  shield  hermine.''  * 

*  D«   la  Rue,  Eisais  historlqties  sur  les  Bardes»  les  Jotigleiirs^  tt  \h 
TrouYdres  Nomandfl  et  Anglo-Normands,  torn.  ill.  pp.  41*«i44. 

2f2 


436  ORM«  [Reign  of 


OEM, 

We  meet  with  few  traces  of  the  use  of  the  English 
language  during  the  ^purely  Anglo-Norman  period,  but 
there  are  one  or  two  names  of  English  poets  of  uncertain 
date,  who  perhaps  wrote  prior  to  the  death  of  king  John. 
The  first  of  these  was  named  Orm,  or  Ormin,  of  whom 
we  know  nothing  further  than  that  he  had  a  brother 
named  Walter,  to  whom  he  dedicates  his  book,  a  metrical 
harmony  of  the  Gospels,  written  in  English  yerse  with- 
out rhyme,  in  apparently  a  northern  dialect.  He  informs 
us  that  he  and  his  brother  were  both  Augustine  monks ; 
and  that  he  had  undertaken  this  harmony  of  the  Gospels 
at  his  brother's  request.  The  author  excuses  himself  for 
inserting  words  which  were  not  in  the  original  in  order 
sometimes  to  fill  out  the  rhythm  of  his  verse. — 

Ic  hafe  sett  her  o  )>iB8  hoc  I  have  placed  here  in  this  book 

amang  Goddspellesi  wordess,  among  the  words  of  the  Gospel, 

All  )>urrh  me  seUfennf  manig  word  Entirely  through  myself,  many  a  word 

)>e  rime  swa  to  fillenn ;  the  rime  so  to  complete ; 

Ace  )>a  shallt  fiadenn  )>att  min  word,  But  thou  shalt  find  that  my  word, 

eggwhasr  |>8er  itt  iss  ekedd,  in  each  place  where  it  is  added, 

Magg  hellpenn  )»a  [»att  redenn  itt  May  help  thotie  that  read  it 

to  sen  and  tannderrstanndenn  to  see  and  to  understand 

All  ^s  te  bettre  hu  >eggm  birrl>  All  the  better  how  it  becomes  them 

^  Goddspellunnderrstanndenn.  •  to  understand  the  Gospel.  ^ 

And  forrH  trowwe  ic  )>att  te  birr>  And  therefore  I  trow  that  it  becomes 

wel  >olenn  mine  wordess,  to  bear  well  my  words,       [thee 

Eggwhser  ^eer   )>u   shallt   finndenn  WhereTer  thou  shalt  find  them 
hemm 

amang  Goddspelless  wordess,  among  the  words  of  the  Gospel; 

Forr  whase  mott  to  Isewedd  folic  For  whoever  undertakes  to  unlearned 

people  [Gospels, 

larspell  off  Goddspell  teUenn,  to  make  a  discourse  out  of  the 

He  mott  wel  ekenn  manig  word  He  must  rightly  add  many  a  word 

apiang  Goddspelless  wordess.  among  the  words  of  the  Goapel. 


John.^ 


ORM* 


437 


A  peculiarity  will  be  observed  in  the  frequent  duplica- 
tion of  the  consonants  at  the  end  of  a  syllable,  which 
gives  a  great  importance  to  this  manuscript  in  a  philolo* 
gical  point  of  view.  The  author,  it  appears,  doubled  the 
consonant  after  the  short  vowels  in  order  to  distinguish 
them  from  the  long  ones  which  were  only  followed  by  a 
single  consonant,  and  he  requests  future  scribes  to  copy 
his  orthography  without  change.  It  may  be  stated  that 
the  MS.  now  preserved,  which  is  in  the  Bodleian  library, 
appears  to  be  the  author's  autograph. 


And  whase  wilenn  sball  Hss  boc 

eift  o)»err  8i>e  writenn» 
Himm  bidde  ioc  )»att  bett  wnte  ribht, 

8wa  tnmm  Ms  bocbimmtscbe)>]>y 
All  |»werrt  utt  affterr  |>dtt  itt  iss 

uppo  Has  firrete  bisne, 
Wi>>  all  swillc  rime  alls  ber  iss  sett ; 

wi>^  alse  fele  wordess ; 
An4  tatt  be  loke  wel  )>att  be 

An  boc-staff  write  twiggess 
Eggwhser  ]>ttr  itt  uppo  Hm  boo 

188  written  o  hatt  wise ; 
Loke  be  wel  >att  bett  write  swa, 

forr  be  ne  magg  nobbt  elless 
On  Enngliflsb  writenn  rihbt  te  word, 

)»att  wite  be  wel  to  8o)»e. 


And  wboerer  sball  wisb  tbis  book 

to  write  again  another  time» 
I  pray  bim  tbat  be  write  it  correctly, 

as  tbis  book  teacbes  bim, 
AU  tbrougfaont  after  wbat  it  ia 

in  tbis  first  exemplar, 
Witb  all  8ucb  rime  as  here  is  placed, 

with  as  many  words ; 
And  that  he  look  well  that  he 

write  one  letter  twice 
Whererer  it  in  this  book 

is  written  in  that  manner ; 
Let  bim  look  well  tbat  be  write  it  so, 

for  he  may  not  otherwise 
In  English  write  correctly  the  word. 

Let  him  well  know  that  for  truth. 


He  wished  his  book  to  be  entitled  Ormulum. — 


Mm  hoc  is  nemmned  Omnnlom, 
forrM  Het  Ormm  itt  wrobbte : 

And  itt  ias  wrobht  off  qna^jnigan, 
off  Goddspell-bokes  fowwre. 


Tbis  book  is  called  Ormnlumi 
becanse  Orm  wrote  it  i 

And  it  is  made  quadripartite, 
ont  of  four  Gospel-books. 


The  Ormulum  deserves  to  be  printed  entire,  as  a  most 
interesting  and  important  monument  of  the  history  of  our 
language.  It  has  an  early  form  of  words,  scarcely  mixed  with 
Norman,  yet  combined  with  a  remarkable  modernness  of 
phraseology  in  parts,  and  of  metre  and  rhythm  generally» 
A  leaf  or  two  appear  to  have  been  torn  from  the  end  of 


49S  NICHOLAS  P«  aUiLBFORD.  [A^V»  4|f 

the  imnuB(^pt  «in^e  the  old  catidague  of  die  Bodleian 
.  iMnnscripte   waa   printed^   so   that  it  ia  now  slightly 
imperfect* 

AnslecU  Aiislo^flaioiiioA  ...  By  BaBjanmi  T1iorp«,  F.8.A.  London,  1834, 
Sto.  pp.  171^178«    SxUicti  from  the  Omralsm. 


NICHOLAS  DE  GUILDFORD. 

The  name  of  Nicholas  de  Guildford  occurs  in  a  poem^ 
of  which  copies  are  preserved  among  the  manuseripts  of 
the  British  Museum  and  of  Jesus  College^  Oxford^  in  a 
way  which  would  lead  any  one  acquainted  with  the  man- 
ner in  which  writers  of  the  middle  ages  name  themselves, 
to  believe  him  to  be  the  author.  This  poem  consists  of  a 
pleading  between  an  owl  and  a  nightingale  on  thcdr  re- 

m 

spective  merits  and  demerits,  until  the  wren  interferes, 
and  it  is  agreed  that  Nicholas  de  Guildford  shall  be  taken 
as  arbitrator.    Hie  nightingale  says,-— 

'*  Bi-hote  ich  habbe,  soth  bit  is  "I  have  promised^  it  is  true, 

That  maiiter  Nichole,  that  is  wis,  That  maeter  Nicholu,  whp  ia  wiee^ 

Bi-tuxen  us  deme  schulde ;  Shall  judge  between  us ; 

An  )ef  ich  wene  that  he  wule ;  If  I  think  that  he  will ; 

Ah  war  mihte  we  hine  finde  ? "  But  where  might  we  find  him  ?" 

The  wranne  sat  in  ore  linde.  The  wren  sat  on  a  branch, 

*'  Hwat,  nn^te  )e,"  cwath  heo,  *'  his      '*  What,  knew  je  not,»*  sayi  she, 


horn/  ''hieveiidenoe? 

He  wnneth  «t  Forteshon,  He  dwells  at  Poiieihiin, 

At  one  tune  ine  Donete,  At  a  town  in  Doreetihiiv, 

Bi  thare  see  in  ore  ut-lete ;  By  the  sea  in  an  out-lf  t ; 

Thar  he  demeth  manie  ri^te  dom,  There  he  judges  many  right  jndg- 

ments. 

An  dttit  and  writ  mani  wiidom,  And  composes  and  writes  much  wis- 

dom. 

An  thurh  his  muthe  and  tharh  his  And  through  his  mouth  and  throng 
honde  his  hand 

Hit  1$  the  betere  into  Seotlonde."  It  is  the  better  from  thence  to  Scot- 

tad." 


/<)AflO  l«AVAICON.  410 

Of  this  Ntoholas  Ae  Guildford  we  know  noihing )  b«t 
in  another  part  of  the  poem  mention  is  piade  ofra  kinf 
Henry,  as  being  r«oently  dead,  which  appears  «ppUoablf 
only  to  H^nry  II*  $  so  that  the  author  probfibly  lived  in 
(he  latter  part  of  the  twelfth  and  beginning  of  the  thir* 
teenth  centuries. 

That  underwat  the  king  Heori,' 
Jeans  hla  aoale  do  merci  I 

A  John  de  Guildford  U  said  to  be  mentioped  in  tloit  lui 

of  the  Jeeut  College  manuscript,  and  to  haye  be«i  the 
author  of  a  religigus  poem  in  the  same  volumej  and  he  &9# 
been  supposed  to  have  been  the  brother  or  %  neiur  rebtioii 
of  Nieholas. 

The  Owl  and  tto  N«^litiQgi|«.  f^dited  by  Joseph  9t|V(mfa«  MmIm» 
1838, 4to.    fxwU^  for  ^1m  Embuighe  Club. 

The  Owl  aiM}  tlie  Vightivae :  fW  isrly  English  Hin  llMkaM  tS  NAslif 
do  GuUdford,  wigi  s«»«  «hw^r  poems  from  the  mlm  MiiKlipl- 
^«M  by  Tk»mf4  Wrisbt*  London,  1843,  8t«.  W^i  tm  IhS 
PeroySofiMy. 


tAYAMON. 

Layamon  appears  as  the  first  translator  into  Etig)is|| 
of  the  British  History  published  by  Geoffrey  of  Mon» 
mouth,  which  he  seems  only  to  have  known  through  the 
Anglo-Norman  metrical  version  by  Wace.  Layamon  tells 
us  that  he  was  a  priest,  that  his  father's  name  was  I^eove* 
nath,  and  that  his  native  place  was  Emley  on  the  Severn. 
And^  from  the  terms  in  which  he  speaks  of  Henry  11.,  we 
feel  inclined  to  think  that  he  wrote  either  at  the  end  of 
his  reign^  or  no  long  time  after  his  death. 

An  preost  wes  on  leoden,  There  was  a  priest  among  people» 

Laiamoa  wes  i«hotea»  was  eifled  Layamon, 

he  wes  LeoTwatSw  sone,  hf  wa»  tb«  foa  q(  i4VW9K>ht 


440 


LAYAMON. 


[Reiffno/ 


liVe  him  beo  Drihten, 
he  wonede  at  Ernleje 
at  te^elen  are  chirechen, 
uppen  SeTaroe  stawe. 


may  God  be  jj^od  to  hun, 
he  dwelt  at  Ernley 
in  the  domaia  of  a  church 
upon  the  ScTem. 


He  tells  us  that  one  day  it  came  into  his  thoughts  that  he 
would  write  a  book  on  the  deeds  of  the  inhabitants  of 
Britain^  from  their  first  arrival  in  the  island. 


Lajamon  gon  liiSen 

wide  jond  ^as  leode, 

and  biwon  H  c^la  boc 

N  he  to  biane  nom. 

He  nom  [»a  Englisca  boc 

)«  makede  aeint  Beda ; 

an  oher  he  nom  on  Latin, 

)>e  makede  aeinte  Albin 

and  J>e  feire  Austin 

H  ftJluh  broute  hider  in. 

Boc  he  nom  he  >ridde, 

leide  ber  amidden, 

N  makede  a  Frenchis  clerc 

Wace  wes  i-hoten, 

|>e  wel  con>e  writen ; 

and  he  hoe  )ef  |>are  se'Selen 

Alienor» 

Ke  wea  Henries  quenci 

^  he^es  kinges. 

La^amon  leide  >eo8  boc, 

1«  leaf  wende, 

he  heom  leofliche  biheold, 

li>e  him  beo  drihten, 

fetheren  he  nom  mid  fingren, 

and  fiede  on  boc  felle, 

and  1«  sohe  word 

sette  to-gadere, 

and  )»a  hre  boc 

hrumde  to  are. 


Layamon  trayelled 

far  through  the  people, 

and  obtained  the  noble  book 

which  he  took  for  his  exemplar. 

He  took  the  English  book 

which  St.  Bede  made ; 

another  he  took  in  Latin, 

which  was  made  by  St.  Albin, 

and  the  fair  Austin 

who  brought  baptism  hither. 

A  third  book  he  took, 

and  laid  it  there  amidst, 

which  a  French  clerk  made, 

was  called  Wace, 

who  was  very  skilftd  in  writing 

and  he  offered  it  to  the  noble 

Eleanora, 

who  was  Henry's  queen, 

the  powerful  king. 

Layamon  laid  this  book, 

turned  over  the  leaf, 

he  looked  at  it  with  pleasure, 

may  the  Lord  be  good  to  him, 

he  took  pens  with  his  fingers, 

and  fell  zealously  on  the  book, 

and  the  true  words 

set  together, 

and  the  three  books 

collected  into  one. 


It  is  now  difficult  to  decide  to  what  work  Layamon  refers 
as  the  book  written  by  St.  Albin  and  St.  Austin.  But 
his  own  work  appears  to  be  little  more  than  a  free  trans- 
lation of  Wace's  Roman  de  Brut.  It  begins  with  the 
Siege  of  Troy,  and  the  dispersion  of  the  Trojan' adven«- 


John.']  '       LAYAMON.  441 

turers^  and  is  continaed  through  the  fabulous  period 
to  Cadwallader^  the  last  of  the  British  kings  of  the 
island.  The  language  of  Layamon  belongs  to  the  period 
of  transition  which  is  generally  termed  semi-Saxon^  in 
which  the  Saxon  phraseology  and  grammatical  construc- 
tion are  still  preserved,  although  the  words  are  rapidly 
changing  their  forms  and  softening  down  their  termina- 
tions. The  versification  is  a  mixture  of  the  purer  Saxon 
alliterative  system  with  the  rhyming  verse  which  appears 
to  have  been  brought  in  by  the  Normans,  the  alliterative 
lines  being  generally  without  rhyme,  and  the  rhyming 
lines  without  alliteration.  The  above  extracts  will  serve 
as  a  specimen  of  the  alliteration  of  this  poem,  and  we  will 
only  add  a  few  lines  as  a  specimen  of  the  style  of  the 
rhyme,  taken  from  the  story  of  king  Lear. 

Gornoille  was  switSe  war,  Gomoille  was  Tery  cunning, 

Swa  beolS  wiimen  wel  i-liwcer»  as  women  are  eyerywhere, 

and  sdde  nne  lesinge  and  said  a  falsehood 

heore  fsedere  >on  king :  to  her  father  the  king : 

**  Leofe  ftedere  dare,  "  Beloved  father,  dear, 

sna  biole  ie  Godes  are,  as  I  pray  for  God's  mercy« 

swa  helpe  me  Apollin,  so  help  me  Apollin, 

for  mm  i-lttfe  is  al  on  him,  for  my  belief  is  all  in  him, 

Htt  lerere  Ho  sert  mo  «ene  that  thou  alone  art  more  precious 

to  me 

^ane  Hs  world  al  clane ;  than  all  this  world  entire ; 

and  jet  ic  )>e  wille  speken  wit,  and  yet  I  will  speake  with  thee, 

)>eou  sert  leoyere  >ene  mi  lif,  thou  art  dearer  than  my  life, 

and  Hs  ich  sucge  H  to  seotSe,  and  this  I  say  to  thee  for  truth, 

Hi  mith  me  wel  i-leye."  thou  mayest  entirely  beliere  me." 

Layamon's  poem  is  of  considerable  extent,  and  is  chiefly 
valuable  as  a  monument  of  the  language  at  a  period  the  li- 
terary productions  of  which  written  in  English  are  very  rare. 
A  perfect  copy  is  preserved  in  the  British  Museum  (MS. 
Cotton.  Calig.  A.  ix.),  which  appears  to  have  been  written 
early  in  the  thirteenth  century.  Of  a  second  manuscript 
of  Layamon  in  the  same  collection  (MS.  Cotton.  Otho  C. 


44^  STEPHBN  nn  ifAVOTON.       [Died  IMS. 

XIII.)  a  bundk  of  burnt  leaves  is  all  Aat  remaias.  This 
latter  manuscript  is  also  of  the  thirteen^  matarf,  but 
more  modem  than,  and  in  plaees  abridged  fipom»  the  other 
text 

Bditiont, 

Anal^cta  Anglo- Saxonica  ....  By  Bei\iaioiu  Thorpe.  Londo^i  1834.  8to. 

pp.  143--170.    The  Hi«(0ry  «f  Ung  Ldr  aB4  kit  dbvgfalwi.   IV^the 

two  teste  1^  J^eremap- 
A  complete  editioa  of  LajuaoUt  from  the  two  qiinuecrip^,  is  u^dfretood  |o 

be  in  the  press  under  the  direction  of  the  Sodetj  of  Antiquaries»  to  be 

edited  bj  Sir  Frederiek  Mad4eii. 


STEPHEN  DE  LANOTON. 

Stephen  de  Lanoton  is  better  known  as  a  historical 
than  as  a  literary  character.  We  are  ignorant  of  the  date 
or  place  of  hb  birth,  but  we  know  that  he  was  sent  at  a» 
earl  J  age  to  study  at  Paris,  where  he  became  successirelj 
professor  of  htunanity  and  of  theology^  obtained  tibe 
title  of  doctor,  was  made  oanon  of  Ndtre  Dame,  and  wae 
finally  raised  to  the  dignity  of  chancellor  of  the  uniyer- 
sity,  of  which  he  was  long  afterwards  regarded  as  one  of 
the  brightest  ornaments.  A  great  part  of  his  life  iqipeaK 
to  have  been  spent  in  Paris,  and  at  the  bej;inning  of 
the  thirteenth  century  his  fame  waa  so  great  titmt 
pope  Innocent  III.  invited  him  to  Rome,  and  made  him 
cardinal-priest  of  3t  ChrisogonuB^  In  1200  the  see  of 
Canterbury  became  vacant  by  the  death  of  archbishop  Hu* 
bert ;  and  the  monks,  in  secret  and  without  the  knowledge 
of  king  John,  chose  their  prior  named  Reginald  to 
occupy  his  place,  and  he  was  sent  to  the  pope  for  confir- 
mation.   The  king,  learning  what  had  taken  place,  forced 

f  See  Ihe  Hiit.  lit.  4c  Vstm»,  ton.  xviii.  p.  il. 


th^  mon1(«  to  m^ke  a  n#w  electaon»  and  John  de  Gray, 
biahop  of  NorwiDh,  was  elected  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
The  pope,  after  bearing  botii  sides,  fuinuUed  the  two 
elections,  and  by  his  own  authority  gave  the  see  to  8t»f 
phen  de  Iiangton,  This  was  the  primary  oause  of  the  long 
and  obstinate  dispute  between  king  John  and  the  court  of 
Borne.  During  the  interdict,  the  new  archbbhop  ap~ 
pointed  by  the  pope  remained  in  France,  chiefly  in  the 
monastery  of  Pontigny,  where  he  devoted  himself  to 
literary  labours. 

In  IS  13,  king  John  made  his  submission  to  the  pope^ 
and  then  Stephen  de  jAngton  repaired  to  England  with 
Qther  bishops  who  had  been  eidled  -,  he  was  allowed  to 
take  possession  of  his  see,  and  was  appqjinted  to  absolre 
the  king  from  the  papal  e:im>mmunication  under  which  he 
laboured*  Both  the  king  and  the  pope  were  deoelred  in 
their  expectations  from  the  new  primate ;  for  from  this 
moment  he  always  appeared  as  the  firm  ally,  and  even  as 
the  foremost  partisan,  of  the  baronial  party,  and  his  name 
appears  first  among  the  witnesses  to  the  great  charter* 
When  the  pope  condemned  the  charter,  he  ordered  the 
archbishop  of  Canterbury  to  pronounce  the  sentence  of 
excommunication  against  the  barons  who  had  extorted  it, 
but  the  primate  refused  to  obey*  Innocent  was  already 
offended  at  Ijangton's  boldness  in  protesting  against  the 
proceedings  of  his  It^ate  Nicholas ;  and  the  papal  com- 
missaries now  suspended  him  from  his  see,  and  ordered 
him  to  repair  to  Bome  to  answer  for  his  conduct.  The 
pope  confirmed  this  act,  and  only  restored  him  to  his  rights 
on  the  condition  of  his  not  returning  to  England  until 
the  end  of  the  troubles  by  which  that  country  was  then 
torn.  He  remained  on  the  continent  until  after  the  acces- 
sion of  Henry  III. 

In  1219^  the  archbishop  translated  the  body  of  Tho- 


444  STEPHEN  DE  langtOn.        [Died  122d, 

mas  Becket ;  and  his  lavish  expenditure  on  the  ceremo- 
nies of  that  occasion  is  said  to  have  involved  the  see 
in  debts^  of  which  it  was  not  cleared  imtil  the  fourth  pri- 
mate in  succession  from  himself.*  In  1220,  he  crowned 
Henry  III.,  that  ceremony  having  been  previously  per- 
formed in  an  irregular  manner.  At  Canterbury  he  was 
occupied  in  rebuilding  his  palace,  completing  his  cathe- 
dral, and  reforming  his  monks  and  clergy.  In  1222,  he 
held  at  Oxford  a  provincial  council,  the  decrees  of  which^ 
composed  by  himself,  are  printed  in  the  collections  of 
Spelman  and  Wilkins.  This  meeting  was  rendered  fa- 
mous by  one  of  the  earliest  known  instances  of  execution 
for  heresy,  which  is  not  much  to  the  archbishop's  credit. 
An  impostor  who  pretended  to  be  Jesus  Christ,  and  who 
showed  scars  on  his  hands,  feet,  and  sides,  which  he  said 
were  those  inflicted  on  him  by  the  Jews,  was  condemned 
by  the  council,  and  put  to  death  on  a  cross ;  and  a  deacon 
of  the  church,  condemned  at  the  same  time,  was  bumt.t 

In  1223,  Stephen  de  Langton  again  placed  himself  at  the 
head  of  the  barons,  to  demand  the  confirmation  and  exe- 
cution of  the  great  charter.  He  died  on  the  9th  of  July, 
1228,  at  Slindon  in  Sussex ;  and  his  body  was  carried  to 
Canterbury  cathedral,  and  buried  in  the  chapel  of  St. 
Michael,  where  his  tomb  is  still  seen* 

The  works  written  by  or  attributed  to  Stephen  de 
Langton  are  voluminous,  but  they  consist  chiefly  of  com- 
mentaries on  the  Scriptures,  and,  were  it  not  for  his  poli- 
tical celebrity,  he  would  not  hold  a  very  prominent  place 
among  the  Anglo-Norman  writers.  A  rather  eariy  manu- 
script in  the  Bodleian  library  sums  up  the  literary  labours 
of  Stephen,  by  stating  that  "  while  at  Paris  he  divided 
the  bible  into  chapters  and  verses  {quotavit),  he  WTote 

*  Henry  de  Knihton,  de  event.  Angl.  ap.  Dec*  Script,  col.  2490 • 
t  Matth.  ^estm.  Flore«  Hist.  p.  112,  &c. 


Died  1228.]       stbphen  de  langton.  445 

expositions  on  the  books  of  Kings^  composed  a  life  of 
king  Richard^  and  left  many  other  volumes  the  produce 
of  his  industry •'^'^  Stephen  de  Langton  has  been  said 
to  have  been  the  author  of  the  division  of  the  books 
of  the  Old  and  New  Testament  into  chapters  and  verses ; 
but  others  have  disputed  his  claims^  and  attributed 
this  mode  of  division  to  a  French  scholar  named  Hugh 
de  St.  Cher.f  The  authority  of  the  Oxford  manuscript 
just  quoted  may^  however,  be  considered  as  giving  some 
weight  to  Stephen's  claims. 

The  greatest  portion  of  the  works  of  Stephen  de  Langton 
consists  of  commentaries,  not  only  on  the  books  of  Kings, 
but  on  nearly  all  the  books  of  the  Old  Testament,  dis- 
tinguished in  general  by  their  scholastic  subtilties.  It  is 
hardly  necessary  to  enumerate  them  all,  or  the  other  the* 
ological  writings  ascribed  to  this  writer  ;  copies  of  most 
of  them  are  found  in  the  libraries  of  Oxford  and  Cam- 
bridge, but  they  have  never  been  printed.  In  the  Harl. 
MS.  No.  104,  in  the  British  Museum,  there  is  a  copy  of 
Langton's  Eafpositio  libri  duodedm  prophetarum. 

The  Life  of  Richard  I.,  by  Stephen  de  Langton,  is  not 
known  to  exist,  but  it  is  quoted  by  several  of  the  early 
chroniclers.  The  old  biographers  have  also  attributed  to 
Stephen  Langton  a  history  of  Mohammed  {de  factU  Ma-» 
humedis),  but  without  any  apparent  authority.  A  life  of 
Thomas  Becket  has  likewise  been  wrongly  attributed  to  him. 
His  different  synodic  constitutions  are  printed,  with  some 
letters,  in  the  collection  by  Wilkins.  The  letter  to  king 
John,  with  the  monarches  reply,  will  be  found  in  the  Spi- 

*  A.  D.  Mcczxviii.  MagiBter  Stephaous  de  Langnetona  archiepigcopus 
Cantoariensis  obiit,  qui  Bibliam  apud  Parisium  quotavit,  libros  Regum  ez- 
posuiti  Yitam  regis  Ricardi  dictayit,  multaqne  alia  industrite  suae  Yolumina 
port  ae  reliqait.    MS.  Bodl.  487.  fol.  100.. 

t  Hift.  lit,  de  Fr.  torn,  xriii.  p.  63, 


446  STEPHEN  DB  LAKOTON*       [Died  1228. 

cilegium  of  D'Achery.  Among  bis  other  theological 
writings^  the  most  remarkable  are  the  8emume$  de  Tem^ 
pare  et  de  Sanctis^  which  are  preserved  in  manttsoript* 

Stephen  de  Langton  also  enjoyed  some  reputation  as  a 
Latin  poet^  which  appears  to  have  rested  chiefly  on  his 
Hexameron,  a  poem  in  hexameters  on  the  six  days  of  the 
Creation,  seen  by  Leland^  but  now  lost^  unless  it  be  oon-- 
cealed  in  some  of  the  continental  libraries.  A  poem  by 
this  prelate  is  preserved  in  the  Lambeth  library,  under 
the  title  of  Carmen  de  contemptu  mundi»  But  perhaps 
the  most  singular  of  all  Langton's  writings  is  a  bri^  ser- 
mon preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum 
(MS.  Arundel,  No.  292,  fol.  dd,  ro),  in  which  he  takes 
a  stanza  of  a  French  popular  song,  and  gives  a  theological 
comment  or  moralkation  on  each  phrase.  This  piece  is 
such  a  singular  production  that  it  deserves  to  be  given 
entire,  as  an  early  specimen  of  a  very  remarkable  dasa  of 
literature. 

Senno  magittri  Siephani  de  Langeduna  arckiepUcqpi  CanU  de  eaneia 

Maria. 

Benedictlone  appostollca 

braedieatnr  gens  eodMlMUca, 

fugiat  a  nobis  fraua  diabolica^ 

et  maneat  aemper  fides  catholica. 

Ille  qui  nattta  ett  ex  atirpe  Datitlca 

pefdnoat  noa  onmea  ad  bona  et  vera  eantioa. 

Bele  Aliz  matin  leva, 
sun  core  vesti  e  para, 
enz  un  verger  e*en  entra, 
einkjlureitee  y  trmoa, 
un  ehapelet  /et  en  a 

de  roeefturie » 
pur  Deu  trahez  mie  en  Ui, 

tut  ki  ne  ameMnUe,' 

Legimui,  quod  de  omnl  terbo  otioso.reddituri  ramui  Deo  rationem  in  die 
jadldi.  £t  Ideo  debemua  errantes  corrtgere,  erroret  feprimert,  prtta  ta 
bonis  ezponere,  vanitatem  ad  veritatem  reducere. 

Com  dioo  bele  Aliz,  scitia  quod  tripudiutn  primo  ad  tanltatem  inventttm 


Died  IMS.]        ITlPHBy  M  LAKOTOK,  447 

Aiit.    Sed  in  tripudio  tria  sant  necessaria,  scilicet  vox  sonora,  nexoB  bra« 
chiorum,  strepitus  pedum.  Ut  ergo  possimoB  Deo  tripadiare  haec  tria  in  nobis 
habeamus,  vocem  sonoram,  i.  e.  pnedicationem  sanctam,  gratam  Deo  et  homi- 
nibus ;  nexus  bfMhiotmn,  1. 0.  gittiltlam  caritatenn)  teSUcet  dilectionem  Dei 
•t  proximi ;  strepitus  pedum»  i.  e.  opera  concordantia  nostne  pnedicationii  ad 
imitationem  domini  nofttri  Jhesti  Chriitl,  qui  primo  coepit  bona  facere  et  postea 
doom.    Dettida  Tldeanms  qtut  sit  Bile  Aiiz.    Hno  est  ilia  bih  Aiit  de  qua 
sic  dtoltur, ' '  SpeoioM  sptdalis,  preoiosa  ut  gemma,  rutilans  quasi  Lucifer  inter 
sidera,'*  et  alibii  ''  tota  pulchra  es  arnica  mea,  et  macula  non  est  in  te." 
(kite  eii  Ift  ^k  AHt^  ce9ie  Hi  iajlur,  eaii  eti  U  lUy  de  qua  sic  dicltur,  '*  sicut 
lilium  iftldr  spinaSf  lie  iniea  mea  inttr  flUas."    Et  dieitur  hoc  aomen  Alls, 
ab  ai  quod  est  sine»  et  Us  litis,  quasi  sine  lite,  sine  reprehensions,  sine  mun* 
dana  feece.   £t  hiec  est  fegina  justitiae,  mater  misericordiie.    Ceste  est  la  hele 
AttM,  iieti  eeti  lajlmr^  oate  at  li  Nt«    Sequltnr  Math  m  leva,  eun  e6re  i^eeti 
•pata  I  UBde  habemus,  **  AdorU  thalsmum  tuum  Syon/'  Ista  Ule  Alh,  i.  e« 
beata  virgo  Maria,  adomatit  thalamum  suum,  i.  e.  mentis  conscientiam, 
qtiando  eoncepit  regem  ccelorum  et  dominum.    Sequitur,  Bn  un  verger  s^en 
etUni,  Iitalt/til/if)dsquailodioktur  "Esttlrgo,tirga,tirgultum."  Virgo 
unde  habemus:  Ecce  viigo  oondplet  et  pariet  filium;  virga:  Bgredietur 
virga  de  radice  Jesse ;  virgultum  c^jus  fructum  agnoyimus  per  annunciationem 
angeli  dieentis :  Benedicta  tu  In  mulleribtu,  et  benedlcttts  frnetus  Tentris  tul. 
Sfqnitat'  dmk  Jhtitta  i  trupM,    W^nt^m  florts  iatenlt  in  tirgulto  isto  ista 
bele  AlUt  qui  nee  ardore  arescunt»  aec  calore  marcesount,  nee  Imbribus 
suffocantur.    Quae  sunt  bii  flores  ?  fides,  spes,  caritas,  virginitas,  humilitas. 
Quleiinque  habebit  hos  flof M  in  se,  habtbit  coronam  de  lapide  preoiosa. 
Saqttltur  C%  ikeipiM  fit  in  a,  i€  neeJtMrie,    P4r  le  ehofeM,  dsbenius 
inteUigere  ooroaam  auream,  quam  imposuit  Deus  supar  caput  ejus  quando 
OoHstitnit  earn  r^ginam  regfaiarttm.    Seqttitur  Pur  Jku  treez  vu»enth,im»  ke 
Nf  «Met  Mit.    fttdbus  diotttm  est  hoe,  truz  ma  in  Ih,  vue  ke  ne  umiz  mii  f 
httreticis,  paganis,  et  falsis  Christianis,  qui  non  credunt  Christi  resurrectionem, 
et  qui  blasphemant  eum.    Talibus  dictum  est,  treez  vue  en  /d,  vtw  ke  ne  amez 
nUe,  i.  e.  Ite  maladloti  In  Ignem  «temutt,  qui  prisparatus  est  diabolo  et 
angelis  ejus.    Bittrifl  enim,  et  iioii  dtdlstis  mlU  mand«oat% ;  sltivi,  et  non 
dedistis  mihi  blbtrt  |  nudoa  lU,  «t  son  ooop«raistis  laa  1  bospes  fui,  et  non 
suscepistis  me ;  inftnutts  ftd,  et  noil  tisitaitis  m«  |  In  oarcere  fui,  et  non 
venistis  ad  me.    Talibus  dictum  est  hoc,  treez  vueenld,  kine amez mie, i«  e« 
Ite  maledicti  In  ignem  sstemum,  qui  prseparatus  est  diabolo  et  angelis  ejus. 
Per  pnsdteta  plitdt,  quod  lata  est  bik  Altz,  de  qua  prndixfanua :  est  reghia  jus- 
titi«0,  fliater  mis^eordi«,  quis  portavitregemcoslorum  et  dominum,  qui  eum 
patre  et  spiritn  sancto  Tivit  et  regnat  Deos.    Amen. 


4iS  GBHVA8E  BISHOP  OF  SBEZ.    IDied  1228, 


GERVASE  BISHOP  OP  SEEZ. 

This  writer  was^  it  appears^  a  native  of  Chichester,  and 
he  has  been  confounded  by  the  writers  of  the  Histoire 
Litt^raire  de  France  *  and  others  with  Genrase  of  Chi- 
chester,  the  firiend  of  Thomas  Becket.  He  was  educated 
in  France,  where  he  entered  the  order  of  Pr6montr6,  and 
became  first  prior,  and  then,  at  the  beginning  of  the  thir- 
teenth century,  abbot  of  St.  Just,  in  the  diocese  of  Beau- 
vais.  In  1205  he  was  abbot  of  Thenailles,  near  Vervins, 
in  the  diocese  of  Laons;  and  in  February,  1210,  he  was 
further  promoted  to  be  abbot  of  Pr^montr^,  and  thus  be- 
came the  head  of  his  order.  In  1220  he  was  appointed  to 
the  vacant  bishoprick  of  Seez,  with  the  consent  of  Henry 
III.  of  England,  and  he  was  consecrated  at  Rome  by  the 
pope  on  the  18th  of  July.  He  occurs,  as  bishop  of  Seez, 
taking  a  part  in  various  public  transactions,  until  1228,  in 
which  year,  on  the  10th  or  20th  of  February,  he  died. 
He  was  interred  in  the  church  of  the  abbey  of  SiUy.  He 
is  said  to  have  written  his  own  epitaph  in  the  following 
words : — 

Anglia  me  genuit»  nutrivit  Gallia ;  sanctus 
Jiutiu,  Tfaenoliunii  PnemoDBtratnmqae  dedere 
Abbatis  nomen ;  ted  mitram  Sagia ;  tiunbam 
Hie  locuB ;  oretur  ut  detar  spiritos  astris. 

The  only  book  which  can  be  ascribed  with  any  degree  of 
certainty  to  this  Gervase  is  a  collection  of  letters,  amount- 
ing in  number  to  137  in  the  more  complete  edition. 
Although  an  Englishman  by  birth,  Gervase  belongs  as  a 
writer  rather  to  France  than  to  this  country,  and  his  let- 
ters relate  exclusively  to  the  ecclesiastical  affairs  of  the 
continent. 

*  Hist.  lit.  de  Fr.  torn.  xyiu.  pp.  41—49. 


Died  12170         Alexander  neckam.  449 

BdUioM. 

Genrarii  Epiftols.    Mons,  1662.  4to.    Some  copies  bear  the  impriot  of 

Valenciennes  y  1663. 
Monnmenta  Saone  Antiqnitatis.    Edited  by  C.  L.  Hugo.     Estival,  1735, 

foL  tome  I.  pp.  1 — 1S4. 


ALEXANDER  NECKAM. 

Alexander  Neckam^  sometimes  called,  from  the 
place  of  his  birth,  Alexander  de  Sancio  Albano,  was  one 
of  the  most  remarkable  scholars  of  the  commencement  of 
the  thirteenth  century.  He  was  bom  at  St.  Alban's,  in 
September  1157»  on  the  same  night  that  king  Richard  I. 
was  bom  at  Windsor;  and  it  appears  that  Alexander's 
mother  was  chosen  as  the  nurse  of  the  royal  child^  and 
that  she  suckled  the  prince  with  her  right  breast,  and  her 
own  infant  with  the  left.*  He  received  his  earlier  edu- 
cation in  his  native  town,  and  seems  to  have  made  rapid 
progress  in  learning,  for  it  is  stated  that  he  was  soon 
entrusted  with  the  government  of  the  school  of  Dun- 
stable  (dependent  on  the  abbey  of  St.  Alban's),  and  we 
find  him,  so  early  as  1180,  when  he  could  be  only 
twenty-three  years  of  age,  a  distinguished  professor  in 
the  university  of  Paris.  He  returned  to  England  in  1187» 
and  is  said  to  have  resumed  his  place  in  the  school  of 
Dunstable,  which  he  held  for  one  year,  and  then  be- 
came desirous  of  entering  one  of  the  monastic  orders. 
His  wishes,  we  are  told,  were  first  directed  to  the  abbey 
of  St.  Alban's,  and  he  made  an  application  couched  in 
the  following  terms : — Si  vis,  veniatn ;   ein  autem,  &c. ; 

*  This  anecdote  is  presenred  in  an  extract,  in  one  of  James's  MSS.  in  the 
Bodleian  Library,  taken  from  k  manuscript  formerly  in  the  possession  of  the 
earl  of  Anmdel. — Mense  Septembri  natns  est  anno  molyii.  regi  filins  Ri- 
cardns  nomine  apad  Windleshore :  Eadem  nocte  natos  est  Alexander  Necham 
apod  sanctnm  Albannm,  cujus  mater  fovit  Bicardam  ex  mamilla  dextra,  sed 
Alexandnim  foTit  ex  mamilla  sna  sinistra.  (See  Tanner.)  The  name  is  often 
spelt  Nequam^  and  Neehamt  in  Latin  MSS. 

VOL.  11.  2  G 


450  ALEXANDER  NBCKAM.         [Bom  I15f . 

to  which  the  abbot  replied,  si  bonus  esy  venias ;  si  nequam, 
nequaquam.  It  is  iiaid  that  Alexander  Neckaiii>  offended 
at  the  apparent  pun  upon  his  own  name,  immediately  en- 
tered into  a  different  monastic  order,  and  became  an  Augus- 
tine canon  in  the  monastery  of  Cirencester  *  There  seems 
to  be  some  room  for  doubt  whether  he  was  not  afterwards 
for  some  time  prior  of  St.  Nicholas,  at  Exeter ;  but  we 
know  with  more  certainty  that  in  1213  he  was  elected 
abbot  of  Cirencester.t  According  to  the  best  authorities 
he  died  in  1217^  at  Kemsey,  in  Worcestershire,  and  was 
buried  at  Worcester-J 

His  name  was  frequently  played  upon  by  his  contem- 
poraries, and  a  pun  found  its  way  even  into  the  epitaph 
which  is  said  to  have  been  inscribed  upon  his  tomb : — 

Eoliptim  patitur  sapientu,  sol  sepelitur ; 
Cui  si  par  uniu,  minus  esset  flebile  fanus : 
Vir  bene  disertos  et  In  omni  mote  faeetoi ; 
Dictns  erat  Nequamt  vitam  dnxit  taanen  «qiiam. 

Alexanttet  Neckam  appears  under  the  character  t)f  It 
universal  scholar :  he  had  made  proficiency  in  the  whole 
circle  of  science,  including  the  canon  law,  medicine,  and 
theology*  His  language  is  distinguished  by  considerable 
elegance  and  purity  of  diction,  and  he  was  certainly  one  of 
the  best  Lditin  poets  of  his  age.  In  most  of  his  writings 
he  exhibits  an  evident  propensity  to  grammatical  studies, 
and  a  considerable  portion  of  his  works  belong  dirediy  to 
'this  class,  although  Roger  Bacon  speaks  somewhat  strongly 
of  the  errors  in  his  grammatical  doctrines.§  The  titles  of 
Neckam's  chief  grammatical  treatises  are,  Isagogicum  de 
Grammatical  or  an  introduction  to  grammar;  Ccrrogor- 

*  This  anecdote  is  gflTen  by  Boston  of  Bury,  in  Tanner.    It  Is  veiy  pFO- 
bably  apochrypbal. 

+  Annal.  Dnnstap.  quoted  in  Tanner. 

t  Ainial.Wigom.  ap.  Wharton»  A.  S.  vol.  i.  p.  483.  ,Annal.  W«veri..p.  184. 

%  Roger  Bacon,  as  quoted  by  Tanner. 


Died  121T J]  ALBKANDB&  NBCKAM.  *  451 

tioneB  de  tropis  et  figuris ;  Repertorium  voeabulorum ;  Dis- 
iinctiones  verborum ;  De  accentu  in  mediis  syllabis.    Some 
of  these  are  preserved  in  the  libraries  of  Oxford  and 
Cambridge^  und  are  interesting  as  showing  the  form  of 
teaching  in  the  schools  of  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  cen* 
turies*  There  is  a  copy  of  the  first  in  the  British  Museum. 
Neckam  was  the  author  of  the  first  of  a  class  of  tracts, 
common  enough  in  later  times^  for  teaching  the  scholars 
to  remember  the  Latin  names  of  different  articles,  by  con- 
necting them  together  in  a  descriptive  narrative.     Of  this 
tract,  whicl^  bears  generally  the  title  De  tUerurilibus,  there 
18  an  imperfect  copy  in  the  British  Museum  (MS.  Cotton. 
Titus  D.  xx),  butTantter  refers  to  other  copies  as  existing 
in  Caius  College  and  Peterhouse  libraries  at  Cambridge. 
It  is  not  only  a  curious  monument  of  the  history  of  scho- 
lastic teaching,  but  it  affords  much  information  on  the 
manners  of  the  time.    T%e  author  begins  by  describing 
die  different  apartments  of  a  house  from  the  kitefaen  to 
the  bedroom,  the  furniture,  and  the  implements  used  in 
each,  and  the  whole  range  of  domestic  economy,  with 
enumerations  of  different  lands  of  provisions^  articles  of 
dress,  &c. ;  he  goes  in  the  same  way  through  the  different 
parts  of  a  castle,  with  its  stores,  arms,  and  soldiers ;  next 
we  have  farming,  the  different  trades  and  professions,  &c. 
The  words  are  accompanied  by  an  interlinear  version  in 
French,  and  each  paragraph  is  followed  by  a  grammatical 
commentary,  which  is  evidently  the  composition  of  some 
later  teacher  of  Neckam^fl  school.    We  give  as  a  spe- 
cimen of  this  work  the  paragraph  on  Carts  and  Carters, 
with  the  interlinear  gloss  and  the  commentary. 

caretter     eqanm  iraheBtem  bigam  cnvele 

Veredus  veredarium  ducturus,  cucuUam  habeat  capu- 

ft*ogge  maanch^ 

cio  armatam  grisio,  et  collobium  habeat  manubeatuo^  ut 

2  G  2 


452  "  ALEXANDER  NECKAM.  [Bom  1157- 

averaplu      isent  aner  rnnler 

manus  cum  libuerit  exeant^  vel  si  agasonis  vel  mulionis 

agalyim  ecchnrge 

officium  explere  velit,  aculeo  fruatur,  aut  flagello^  aut 

idem  bater         i.  flexibili 

scorpione  equos  ceedat^  vel  lenta  virga  aurem  regat,  unde 

carette  capit  de  90 

auriga  nomen  debito  modo  sortitur,  vel  eo  quod  aurem 
equi  regat. 

Hie  Teredus,  di.  Abatitur  aatem  hoc  vocabiilo  veredas ;  est  enim  Teredns, 
Qt  dicit  Petnu  Elyas,  equus  trahens  bigam,  et  dicitar  quad  Yehens  rhedam. 
Est  autem  rheda  eharethte,  nnde  in  Alexandriade 

SnBpirant  plavstra  Teredus. 

A  qao  bic  veredariiiB,  i.  dnctor  equi.  Sed  potest  did  quod  auctor  inspezit 
aliam  originem  hiqus  nominis  veredtUf  quod  derivatur  a  yereor,  reris,  eo 
quod  veretur  ruinam  rhedse,  et  sic  potest  sumi  productoria,  a  quo  hie  ran" 
darius  pro  equo  ducto.  Hkc  cocullay  Ise,  a  cucnllo,  las,  et  eat  vocalis  deii- 
yatio.  Libet,  bat,  libuit,  a  quo  hnc  libitina,  sc.  btre,  per  oontrarium  eo 
quod  minime  libet,  unde  Horatiua, 

Dili  quern  Libitina  aacrarat. 

Hie  agaaoy  ductor  adnorum,  ab  ago,  is,  et  asinus,  ni.     Hie  mulio,  onis, 
custos  mulorum,  a  mulo,  8ec. 

The  most  elegant  of  Neckam's  poems  is  one  on  the 
monastic  character^  which  appears  to  have  been  very  po- 
pular,  for  it  occurs  frequently  in  manuscripts.  It  is 
given  sometimes  anonymously,  and  has  been  ascribed  to 
Aldhelm,  and  to  Anselm,  though  it  evidently  describes  the 
manners  of  the  end  of  the  twelfth  or  the  beginning  of  the 
thirteenth  century .'i'  The  author  begins  by  a  simple  ex- 
pression of  what  ought  to  constitute  the  monkish  character: 

Quid  deceat  monachum,  vel  quails  debeat  esse, 

Qui  jubet  ut  dicam  porrigat  ipse  manum. 
Grez  sanctus,  monachi,  vobis  hsec  scribimus,  hee  yos  • 

Instruit,  hsee  yitae  pagina  pandit  iter. 
Nee  nos,  dileoti  fratres,  contemnite,  si  quid 

Nostra  pium,  si  quid  nostra  salubre  monent. 


*  Our  extracts  are  given  from  MS.  Reg.  8  A.  XXI.   This  poem  is  printed 
in  some  editions  of  the  works  of  Anselm. 


Died  12170  Alexander  neckam.  453 

Saeptofl  ingentes  lux  pellit  parra  tenebnw ; 

Rivuliu  et  duloes  ntpt  ministrat  aquas. 
Non  tonaura  fadt  monachum,  non  horrida  vestis; 

Sed  Tirtaa  animi  perpetausque  rigor; 
Mens  hmnilia,  mniidi  cont^mptast  vita  pvdica, 

Sanctaque  sobrietas,  hmc  faciunt  monachnm. 

The  poet  proceeds  to  warn  the  monastic  orders  against 
giving  way  to  the  love  of  pleasure^  to  envy,  ambition,  and 
the  other  sins  then  too  prevalent  in  society,  and  the  poem 
becomes  in  the  sequel  a  declamation  against  the  corrupt 
manners  of  the  age,  and  especially  against  the  female 
sex.  He  thus  describes  the  cares  to  which  power  and 
worldly  honours  subject  those  who  possess  them — 

O  dilectores  mandi  falsique  potentes, 

Ecquid  terrenaa  eue  patatis  opes  ? 
Quid  quoqae  mnndaaoa  quoa  afficiatis  honorea, 

Qoonun  perpetuas  est  aolUcitado  comes  ? 
Omiiia  pneoipitem  formidant  ardaa  caamn, 

Et  magnia  semper  vis  aliena  nocet. 
Ssepias  alta  ruit  veDtorum  flatibus  arbor, 

Tata  bunilis  mirtus,  tuta  mirica  manet. 
Bellica  cum  celsas  subvertit  machioa  turres, 

Nil  nocet  ezigUBB  pauperis  ilia  casae. 
Et  rapit  obstaotes  fluyii  violentia  moles. 

Plana  satis  placido  per  manet  ilia  grada. 
Montes  et  scopolos  saevi  maris  obmit  unda, 

Ad  placidum  littua  mitior  onda  Tenit. 
Aerias  Alpes  nivibus  candescere  scimos, 

Frigoribusque  premi  perpetuoqne  gelu ; 
Illic  et  rabies  ventorum  plurima  s«nt ; 

Temperiem  gratam  proxiioa  vallis  habet. 
Sic  vobis  nnnqoam  desont  adversa,  potentes, 

Non  est  pax  vobis  alia  nee  alia  qaies. 
O  qaantos  regnm  patiantar  corda  tamoltas  I 

Qaamqae  procellosis  motibos  ipsa  fremaat  1 
Inter  regales  epalas  Tariosqae  paratas 

Tabescnnt  cans  soUidtoqae  meta. 

The  following  lines  give  us  a  curious  picture  of  a  lady's 
toilette  in  the  twelfth  century : — 

Foemina,  fax  Satfaanse,  gemmis  radiantibns,  aaro, 
Vestibas,  at  possit  perdere,  compta  venit 

Quod  nature  sibi  sapiens  dedit  ilia  reformat ; 
Quicquid  et  accepit  dedecuisse  putat. 


454  ALEXANDER  NECK  AM.  [BOTH  1157^ 

Fingit  acu  et  fdeo  Ihrentei  raddit  ooeUos, 

Sic  ocokinun,  mqiiit,  gratia  major  erit. 
Est  etiam  tenens  anres  qun  perforata  ut  nc 

Avt  aamm  aut  cams  pendeat  ind6  lapia^ 
Altera  jejunat  mense»  miooitqne  cinorem, 

Ut  prorstts  quare  pallcat  ipsa  fadt. 
Nam  quae  non  pallet,  sibi  mstica  qiueqae  videtor ; 

Hie  decet,  hie  color  est  yems  amantis,  ait. 
Htec  quoqae  dirersis  sua  sordibns  inficit  ora ; 

Sed  quare  melior  qoaeritor  arte  color  ? 
Arte  supercilium  rarescit,  mrsus  et  arte 

In  minimiim  mammas  coUigit  ipsa  suas. 
Arte  qoidem  videas  nigros  flavescere  crines ; 

Nititur  ipsa  suo  membra  movere  loco. 
Sic  fragili  pingit  totas  in  corpore  partes, 

Ut  quicqnid  nota  est  displicuisse  pates. 

Among  other  poems  of  Neckam  which  appear  to  be  lost, 
we  have  the  titles  Ad  vtros  religiosos  (perhaps  the  one 
described  above) ;  De  cotwersione  MagdaUruB :  &c.  He 
translated  into  Latin  elegiacs  the  fables  of  ^sop,  six  of 
which  have  been  printed  by  M.  Robert  from  an  imperfect 
manuscript  at  Paris.*  But  the  most  important  poem  of 
this  author  is  a  treatise  on  science,  written  also  in  elegiac 
Terse,  and  comprised  in  ten  distinctions,  or  books.f  He 
begins  by  treating  of  the  creation,  then  of  the  orders  of 
angels,  and  proceeds  to  describe  the  stars,  and  thus  sums 
up  the  different  opinions  concerning  their  substance : — 

Ad  Stellas  redeo,  que  sunt  solatia  noctiSi 

Delicias  gaudet  Tictis  (?)  habere  suas. 
Lux,  species,  levitas,  scintillans  splendor  et  ardor, 

Quod  sit  in  his  virtus  ignea,  nonne  probat  ? 
Valgus  et  Empedocles,  Socrates,  Achademia,  mensis. 

Quod  stellarum  sit  ignis  origo  decent. 
Thalesque  et  liquidas  ausus  Maro  dicere  flammas, 

Quod  sit  eis  mater  Thetyos  unda  Tolunt. 
Summus  Aristoteles  longe  secessit  ab  istis, 

Doctor  Athenarum,  duZ|  caput,  orbis  honos. 


*  Fables  In^dites,  Paris,  1625,  torn.  i.  pp.  109,  124,  194,  205,  S37,  260. 
t  A  copy  of  this  poem,  from  which  we  quote,  is  in  the  British  Museum^ 
MS.  Reg-  8  E.  IX, 


Died  19170        Alexander  neckam.  455 

Qno^  otelQs  iH  origo  poteas  ea^enti^  qniata 
Censoit,  ingenio  oedere  cnncta  potans. 

The  remainder  of  the  first  book  relates  to  the  planets^  and 
to  the  laws  of  the  heavenly  bodies.  In  the  second  book^ 
the  author  treats  of  the  elements^  and  especially  of  the 
air^  which  leads^  him  to  describe  the  birds,  as  peculiarly 
appertaining  to  that  element.  The  following  is  Neckam's 
poetical  description  of  the  parrot : — 

Psittace,  te  nutrit,  te  fertitis  India  gaudet 

Inter  delicias  connnmerare  suas. 
Hiatrio  nobilia  es,  nobis  aTibxusque  ferisqae 

Hindis,  varios  ezprimis  ore  sonoi. 
Risum  mentiriSi  hinnitum  fingis,  amaros 

Gandes  jocunda  voce  referre  sales. 
Intenso  corpus  omat  natnra  nitore, 

Lnmlnlbus  color  hie  gratior  esse  solet. 
Puniceus  colli  torques  mtilare  virorem 

Cogit,  at  in  signum  nobilitatis  adeet. 
Rostmm  duritle  prsestat,  yertezqne  flagella 

Cum  tot  sustineat,  nonne  fatetur  idem  ? 
Verba,  minas,  ictus,  audit,  formidat,  abhorret, 

Doctorisque  sui  sdt  nova  jussa  sequi. 
Ne  tinguatur  aquis  reddit  soUertia  cautum, 

Hinc  est  suspectus  aeris  humor  ei. 
Incolit  arva  Phari  non  expectantia  nimbes, 

£t  montana  quibus  gratia  roris  abest. 
Nempe  colit  montes  ftimosos  morte  Saulis, 

Et  Jonathse  nota  est  msesta  querela  David. 
Prs  cunctis  avibus  confbrtur  latior  isti 

IJngaa  potens  propriis  edere  verba  sonis. 
Ingenuus  prsestat  quivis  abjectior  ales, 

Contentus  digitis  dicitur  esse  tribus. 

The  third  book  treats  of  water^  and  of  fountains  en- 
dowed with  wonderful  virtues^  of  all  the  different  species 
of  fishes,  with  a  description  of  the  principal  rivers  and 
the  great  towns  situated  upon  them  in  France,  England, 
and  Ireland.  The  subjects  of  the  fourth  book  are  fire, 
the  winds,  snow,  rain,  meteorology,  and  various  other 
matters    connected    with    natural  philosophy.      In  the 


456  ALEXANDER  NBCKAlf.  [jBom  1157* 

fifth  book  we  have  a  dissertation  on  the  form  of  the  earthy 
and  a  geographical  description  of  it,  with  more  detuled 
descriptions  of  France  and  England^  in  which  he  breaks 
out  into  the  following  warm  eulogy  of  his  native  land : — 

Ad  natale  iolom,  qaod  PUnins  Albion  olim 

Dictum  commemorat,  Itectere  lora  libet. 
DeMnc  Brati  telloB  est  dicta  Britannia  major, 

Nam  minor  Armoricoa  gandet  habere  nnna. 
Ezsnperat  eonctas  hsc  insula  fertilitater 

Et  gpatio  qnnYis  insula  oedit  d. 
Ditat  eam  natura  potens  flavoque  metallo 

Et  itagno :  reliquas  quia  numeraret  opes  ? 
Nulla  magis  regio  studiis  est  apta  MinerrSt 

Arcadi»  Yindt  pascua,  rora  Phari. 
Dives  frnmento,  lana,  sale,  melle,  metallis, 

Flumina  dant  piaoes,  dat  maret  silva  feras. 
Tarn  Lybis  Tolucres  quam  fasidos  Anglia  ditant» 

Mensas  sspe  tuas  tranieo  cortis  avea. 
In  mensa  nusquam  Tultns  jocnndior,  hospea 

Gratior,  ant  cultus  lautior  esse  solet. 
Omatus  mensae  nequit  ezquisitior  esse, 

Gandet  in  obsequiis  offidosa  manus* 
Anglicus  a  pnero,  velut  id  natura  ministret. 

Ant  jubeat,  donat  munera  digna  dari. 
Eijgitur  porrecta  manum  stans  cnrra  senectus, 

Ad  dandnm  menus  hie  nulla  senilis  erit. 
Siderd  vultus  hie  munificentia  regnat. 

Hie  nescit  munus  vendere  lenta  menus. 
Abaque  mora  detur  munus  sine  murmure,.  Tultua 

IiBtitite  mentis  nuncius  esse  solet. 
Condit  sed  geminat  donum  dandi  modus,  ipsum 

Spes  crucians  animum  d^^enerare  facit. 
Prs  reliquis  banc  ezeroet  venatio  gentem, 

Cederet  Orion  et  Meleager  d. 
Ingenium  dat  ei  genius  subtile,  quod  artea 

Mechanicas  subdit  ingenuasque  sibi. 

The  sixth  book  makes  us  acquainted  with  the  interior  of  the 
earthy  and  with  metals^  precious  stones,  their  natures  and 
qualities,  &c.  The  seventh  is  devoted  to  the  medical  quali- 
ties of  different  plants,  and  the  eighth  is  occupied  with 
fruit,  seed,  &c.     The  ninth  contains  the  natural  history  of 


Died  12170        albxandbr  neckam.  457 

animals,  with  observations  on  the  senses^  brain,  &c.  of  man. 
The  tenth  treats  of  the  seven  arts,  and  on  science  in  gene- 
ral, and  ends  with  the  following  account  of  the  author  : — 

Qaod  ai  forte  fores  dsadat  tibi  CUadia,  daoBtnim 

Martyris  Albani  sit  tibi  tata  qnies. 
Hie  locus  setatis  nostrae  primordia  noTit, 

Annos  felices,  ketitiseqae  dies. 
Hie  locus  ingenuis  pneriles  imbmt  annos 

ArtibuB,  et  nostrae  laudis  origo  fnit. 
Hie  locus  insignes  magnosque  creavit  alamnos, 

Felix  eximio  martfie,  gente,  situ. 
Militaft  bic  Cbristo  noctaqae  dieque  labori 

Indnlgens  sancto  religiosa  cohors. 
Hsec  te  sosdpiet  placito  gratoque  favore, 

Optabit  tutor  quilibet  esse  tans. 
Hie  locns  hospitibas  sese  debere  fatetor, 

Qnos  admittit  bonor,  janitor  iste  lod. 
Hortarer  te  Parisins  partesqne  remotes 

Yisere»  sed  terret  me  maris  unda  tomens. 
Vix  aliquis  locos  est  dicta  mibi  notior  nrbe. 

Qua  modici  pontis  parva  colnmna  fdi. 
Hie  artes  didid  docoique  fideliter,  inde 

Accessit  studio  lectio  sacra  meo : 
AudiTi  canones,  Hypocratem  cum  Galieno, 

Jus  d?ile  mihi  displicnisse  neges. 
Si  suspects  tibi  loca  sunt  solennia,  nostrsB 

Intra  septa  domus  tutior  esse  potes. 
Urbs  vires  experta  tuas»  Gurmunde,  per  annos 

Septem»  ni  fallor,  vix  tibi  deesse  volet 
Non  moriar  totus  dnm  tu  servaris  in  esse. 

Cum  sis  ingenii  gloria  magna  mei. 

Neckam's  scientific  works  are  not  very  numerous; 
the  one  of  most  importance,  and  (to  judge  by  the  number 
of  manuscripts)  the  most  popular,  was  the  treatise  De 
naiuris  rerum.*  The  earlier  part  of  this  prose  treatise  is  in 
a  great  measure  a  paraphrase  of  the  poem  last  described, 
with  however  much  amplification  and  addition.  As  in 
the  poem,  the  first  book  commences  with  an  account  of 
the  creation,  of  heaven,  of  the  planetary  bodies,  and  of  the 
elements,  which  latter  subject  leads  to  a  description  of  the 

*  The  manuscript  from  which  we  describe  this  work  is  MS.  Reg.  12  6  XI. 
Jneipit  Ofrtu  magistri  Alexandri  de  Saneio  Afbano  de  naturit  rerum. 


458  ALBXANDBR  NBCKAlf .  [Bom  ll57> 

different  kinds  of  birds.  The  second  book  treats  of  fonn*' 
tains^  &c.  of  fishes,  plants,  stones,  serpents,  animals,  and 
of  arts  and  trades.  Neckam's  natural  history  is  here  en- 
livened by  many  anecdotes  of  birds  and  animals,  and  he 
gives  us  from  time  to  time  curious  notices  of  the  method 
of  teaching  then  practised  in  the  university  of  Paris.  He 
adopts  the  fashion  of  his  age  in  giving  frequent  moraliza- 
tions  and  spiritual  applications  of  his  scientific  facts.  In 
his  chapter  on  buildings,  he  says^that  the  walls  of  a  building 
ought  to  be  made  to  lean  from  each  other  (so  as  to  repre- 
sent radii  converging  to  the  centre  of  the  earth),  as  being 
the  strongest  form,  because,  as  be  says,  heavy  bodies 
naturally  tend  towards  a  centre ;  this  is  a  curious  antici- 
pation of  the  doctrine  of  gravitation,^  Sometimes  we  are 
favoured  with  the  popular  notions  of  the  age,  as  in  the 
account  of  the  spots  in  the  moon,  which  we  may  give  as 
an  example  of  the  style  of  this  book. 

JD^maeuU  iiowt. 

Nonnnlli  sollicitantar  mide  umbratilis  qugedam  macala  in  lona  videatar. 
Placnitergo  qmbusdam  limare  corpos  esie  caveroosom,  Ita  quod  cavenis 
lunsB  Incia  aolaris  radios  in  se  non  admittant.  Allis  Tisum  est  corpus  lunae 
non  esse  rotundnm,  sed  in  qnibusdam  sui  partibua  esse  eminentins,  in  aliis 
depressius.  Partes  igitur  depressce  in  modum  conyaUium  beneficium  luds 
Solaris  non  sentiunt.  Hsec  autem  opinio  pnedictae  opiniooi  collimitanea  est. 
Volunt  alii  lunare  corpus  in  sui  natura  obscurum  esse,  ita  ut  qusdam  qua 
partes  obscuriores  naturalitar  sunt  aliis,  uade  et  Ulnmlnttioni  non  sunt  ob- 
noxise.  Sed  sciendum  est  in  signum  et  instructionem  sostri  hoc  foctum  esse. 
Merito  enim  prseyaricationis  primorum  parentum  omnium  planetarum  et 
etellarum  fulgor  dispendium  daritatis  sustinuit.  Luna  vero  qute  dtima 
terris  est,  et  aspectibus  humanis  familiarius  oocurronSi  maeulum  in  se  d«ti^ 
nuit,  ad  denotandum  quod  quamdiu  in  statu  yitae  praeaentis  currimus,  macula 

*  Oportet  namque  necessario  nt  quanto  amplius  parietes  a  terra  surgunt, 
tanto  major  distautia  inter  ipsos  reperiatur.  Cum  enim  omne  ponderosura 
natoralitur  tendat  ad  centrum,  intellige  parietes  ad  centrum  terras  tepdere,  et 
reperies  ipsos  parietes  angularitur  sibi  sociari.  Videsne  igitnr  quonammodo 
radii  ez  modiolo  bigae  procedentes  majori  et  minori  distantia  se  jungantur 
usque  dum  rotae  ipsi  maritentur?  Sic  et  parietes  elerantur,  coeli  convexa 
respicientes.    MS.  Reg.  12  G.  XI.  fol.  79,  t^. 


J08CBLIN  DB  B&AKBLONDB.  459 

•Hqiu  in  aaneta  eccleaia  est.  Cun  «ntem  omnes  planet»  com  stellU  etiam 
stabunt,  quasi  emeriti,  stabilis  erit  status  noster,  et  non  erit  aliqua  macula  in 
hina  material!,  sicut  nee  in  sancta  ecdesia.  Forsitan  simplex  lector  non 
adTertit  quid  Tocem  lunae  maculam.  Nonne  nonsti  quid  vulgns  Tooet  ruiti- 
cum  in  luna  portantem  spinas  ?  unde  qnidam  yulgariter  loquena  ait,—- 

Roatieus  in  faina,  quem  sardna  deprimit  una, 
Monstrat  per  spinas  nnlli  prodesse  rapinas. 

Qootiena  igitur  umbram  illam  dispersam  conspids,  revoca  ad  memoriam 
transgressionem  primorum  parentum,  et  in^^emisce,  &c. 

The  three  other  books  of  this  treatise,  which  is  complete 
in  five,  are  deyoted  to  mDral  subjects. 

Neckam's  theological  works  are  very  numerous,  and 
somewhat  varied  in  their  character,  consisting  of  rather 
extensive  commentaries  on  the  scriptures,  in  which  his 
love  of  grammatical  investigation  is  conspicuous,  of  a 
number  of  essays  on  different  subjects  connected  with 
divinity,  and  of  eighteen  sermons.  He  also  published 
commentaries  on  some  of  the  writings  of  Aristotle,  on  the 
Metamorphoses  of  Ovid,  and  on  a  portion  of  Martianus 
Capella.  It  does  not  appear  that  any  of  the  numerous 
works  of  Alexander  Neckam,  with  the  exception,  perhaps, 
of  the  poem  on  monastic  life,  and  a  few  fragments,  have 
ever  been  printed. 


JOSCELIN  DE  BRAKELONDE. 

Among  the  historians  of  the  period  now  under  our  con- 
sideration, mention  must  be  made  of  Joscelin  de  Brake- 
londe.  Mr.  Gage  Rokewode  has  collected  all  the  known 
&cts  of  his  life.  He  was  a  native  of  Bury  St.  Edmund's, 
became  a  monk  of  the  abbey  in  1173,  was  chaplain  to  the 
prior  in  1182,  and  was  soon  afterwards  promoted  to  be  the 
chaplain  of  the  abbot  Samson,  with  whom  he  lived  on 
terms  of  great  intimacy,  and  the  history  of  whose  abbacy 


460  JOSCBLIN  DE  BRAKBLONDE. 

occupies  the  greater  part  of  his  book.  In  1198  and  1200 
he  did  the  honours  of  the  abbey  as  guest-master ;  and  in 
1211  he  held  the  office  of  almoner. 

The  only  known  work  by  Joscelin  is  a  history  of  the 
affairs  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Edmund's  during  his  own  time,  ue. 
from  1173  to  1 201.  The  author  appears  to  have  been  weU 
acquainted  with  the  common  Latin  authors,  but  his  latinity 
is  singularly  unclassical  and  inelegant.  The  merit  of  the 
book  arises  simply  from  the  circumstance  that  it  is  a  plain 
and  unvarnished  statement  of  facts,  and  that  the  writer, 
being  personally  interested  in  the  narrative,  gives  much, 
more  of  minute  detail  than  the  historians  of  his  class 
generally  indulge  in,  and  has  thus  furnished  us  with  a 
remarkable  picture  of  monastic  life.  The  following  extract 
will  illustrate  his  style  and  the  peculiar  character  of  his 
history. 

Id  diebus  illls  oelerarivs,  sicat  caeteri  officiales,  appnmtaTit  denarios  a 
Femeto  Judceo»  inoongnlto  oonventa,  raper  cartam  rapradicto  sigillo  signa- 
tam.  Cum  antem  excrevit  debitnm  usque  ad  sexagiAts  Ubnai  Bammonitiu 
est  conventua  ad  soWendnm  debituin  oelerariL  Depositut  est  celerarins ; 
lioet  allegaret  graYamen  suum,  dicens  quod  susceperat  tribus  annia  hospitea 
omnes  m  domo  hospitum  ad  pneceptum  abbatia,  sive  abbaa  faerit  pnesena 
sive  abseiii,  quos  debeat  suscipere  abbas  secandnm  consuetudineiii  abbatiae. 
Substitntus  est  magister  Dionisms,  qui  per  prondeotiam  suam  et  cautelam 
minoravit  debitam  Ix.  libramm  usque  ad  zxz.  libras ;  de  quo  debito  reddidi- 
mus  XXX**  marcasy  quas  Benedictua  de  Blakeham  deditooiiTentui  pro  maneriia 
Neutone  et  Wepatede  tenendis ;  sed  carta  Judsi  usque  hodie  remansit  apod 
Judsnm,  in  qua  continentur  xxyL  libra  de  katallo  et  de  debito  celerarii. 
Tertio  die  postquam  magister  Dionisius  fuit  celerarins,  ducti  sunt  tres  mili- 
tes  cum  armigeris  sois  usque  in  domum  hospitum,  ut  ibi  refioereatur,  abbate 
domi  existente  et  in  thalamo  suo  residente.  Cum  autem  audisaet  magnani- 
mus  ille  ^acides,  nolens  perdere  in  bailiva  sua,  sicnt  ccteri,  surrexit  et 
accepit  claves  oellarii,  et  ducens  secum  milites  illos  usque  in  anlam  abbatia, 
Teniensqne  ad  abbatem,  dixit;  **  Domlne,  bene  novistis  quod  consuetude 
abbatiae  est,  ut  milites  et  laid  recipiantur  in  curia  vestra,  si  abbas  domi  faerit; 
nee  Tolo  nee  possum  recipere  hospites  qui  ad  tos  pertinent.  Alioquin,  ac- 
cipite  claTes  cellarii  yestri,  et  alium  constituite  celerarium  pro  benepladto 
vestro.**  Audiens  hoc  abbas,  Tolens  vel  nolens  recepit  illos  milites,  et 
semper  postea  milites  et  laicos  recepit  secundum  antlquam  coDsuetudinem, 
et  adhuc  recipiuntur,  abbate  domi  existente. 


lAved  m  1210.]     gilbertus  anglicus.  461 

It  appears  that  Joscelin  also  wrote  a  book  on  the 
miracles  pretended  to  have  been  performed  by  St.  Robert, 
a  boy  alleged  to  have  been  martyred  by  the  Jews  at 
Bury  St  Edmund's  in  1181. 

BdiiUm. 

Chronica  Jocelhii  de  Brakelonday  de  rebus  gestis  Samsonis  abbatis  monas- 
terii  Sancti  Edmundi.  Nanc  prinmm  typis  mandata  durante  Johanne 
Gage  Rokewode.  Londiiii :  sumptibus  Societatis  CamdenensiB.  1840.  4to. 

Mcmasde  and  Social  life  in  the  Twelfth  Centary,  as  exemplified  in  the  Chro- 
nioles  of  Jocelin  of  Brakelond,  from  a.d.  1173  to  1202.  Translated 
from  the  original  Latm,  as  printed  by  the  Camden  Society.  With 
Notes,  Introduction,  &c.  by  T.  E.  Tomlins,  Esq.  Editor  of  "  Lytde- 
ton's  Tenures/'  &c.  London,  1843.  8to. 


GILBERTUS  ANGLICU& 

The  earliest  English  medical  writer  is  generally  known 
by  this  name,  though  some  of  the  old  bibliographers 
give  him  that  of  Legle  (?L^Aigle),  but  on  what  au- 
thority does  not  appear.^  We  know  little  or  nothing 
of  his  history ;  but  it  is  said  that  he  went  to  study  in  the 
medical  schools  in  Italy,  and  that,  after  gaining  consi- 
derable reputation  there,  he  returned  to  his  native  country, 
and  obtained  the  appointment  of  physician  to  Hubert 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  who  held  that  see  firom  1193 
to  1206.  Bale  and  others  represent  Gilbert  as  flourishing 
in  1210. 

GUbert  is  best  known  by  a  compendium  of  the  medical 
doctrines  of  his  age^  in  seven  books,  in  which  he  has  em- 
bodied in  an  orderly  form  the  opinions  of  the  various 
medical  authorities  then  in  repute  on  the  different  diseases 

*  Tanner  places  him  in  his  Bibliotheca  under  the  name  LegUieu», 


462  QiLBBRTUs  ANOLicus.     iLwed  hk  1210. 

of  the  human  body^  and  <m  the  various  modes  of  treating 
them.  In  the  first  book  he  treats  of  fevers;  in  the  second^ 
of  diseases  of  the  head  and  nerves ;  in  the  third,  of  diseases 
of  the  eyes  and  face ;  in  the  fourth^  of  diseases  incident  to 
the  external  members ;  in  the  fifths  of  internal  diseases, 
which  are  also  continued  through  the  sixth  book ;  while 
the  seventh  treats  of  diseases  of  the  generative  system, 
and  of  gout,  cancers,  diseases  of  the  skin,  poisons,  hydro- 
phobia, &C.  The  first  chapter  will  explain  the  general 
system  of  the  division  of  diseases  followed  in  this  book, 
and  will  at  the  same  time  serve  as  a  specimen  of  the  style 
of  this  our  first  writer  on  medical  science.  * 

A  morbis  luuTenalilmB  propositi  nostri  intentio  est  inchoare,  et  dictiones 
particnlares  actonim  magistrommque  in  opere  medicationis  ezpertissimas 
aggregare,  sumendo  principium  a  morbi  quadam  divisione  qos  est  qaun 
morbuB  alias  est  a  nature  immutata  oonsimilinm  et  alios  a  naton  immntata 
oontinnationiB.  Utromoiqae  yero  snbjongenda  est  alia  diTisiOf  qnnm  omniom 
horam  qoidam  est  nnirersaUs,  qnidam  particidariB.  Bt  nnirersalis  triplex 
est,  qnnm  aut  universaliter  omnia  membre  affligit,  ant  qnia  omnia  genera 
morbomm  timnl  in  «e  reperinntar,  nt  in  apostemate,  ant  dno  taritum,  nt  in 
ffdntioiie  oontinintatis.  Et  morbus  naiiverialis  ex  kumntata  nstnra  eoroimi- 
linm  est,  ot  febria ;  et  morbus  uniTenalis  ex  immutata  natun  officialium  est, 
ut  quibusdam  placet  opbiales,  scilicet  incubus.  Et  morborum  universalium 
quidam  sunt  inficientes,  et  quidam  non.  fit  inficientium  quidam  iuteriua 
oonturgunty  nt  lepra  et  Tariol»  et  morbili  et  scabies*  quoniam  totam  cor- 
rumpunt  habitudinem.  Et  quidam  extra  adveniunt,  aut  per  eorum  assnmp- 
tionem  aut  obviationem,  ut  ▼eoena  et  morsus  venenosorum  animalinm.  Et 
morbi  parttculana  sinriliter  dividuntur,  quum  aut  sunt  ex  immutata  natura 
consimiMum,  ut  dolor  capitis,  aut  immutata  nature  offieiatium,  ut  paraUsia. 
Primo  autem  erit  sermo  noster  de  uniTcrsalibus,  et  inter  bos  de  bis  priua  qui 
ex  mamtia  sunt  complexionis  diverste,  ut  de  febribus,  quia  sunt  digniores  et 
genendions  «t  periculoeiores  et  frequentiores ;  deinoeps  autem  de  partieuliu 
ribuB,  et  inter  bos  de  morbis  oommunibus,  tam  ex  solutione  continuitatis 
quam  de  bis  qui  ex  omni  genere  concurrunt  secundum  situm  membrorum, 
quibus  adTeniunt,  a  superioribus  indpientes  per  ordinem  aermonem  exquisi- 
tnm  constitnentes,  in  inferioribua,  Deo  adjuvanfee,  finiemns. 

This  book  is  sometimes  found  under  the  title  of  Prac- 
tica  MedidfkBy  which  led  Leland  into  the  mistake  of 
ascribing  to  Gilbert   a    different  book  under  that  title. 


Died  1213.]  William  du  itONT.  463 

It  is  of  frequent  occurrence  among  the  manuscripts  of  our 
public  libraries*  Bale  and  Pits  have  ascribed  some  other 
treatises  to  him,  but  apparently  on  doubtfial  authority. 
A  Commentary  on  the  Aphorisms  of  Hippocrates  is  sup- 
posed, with  better  reason,  to  have  been  written  by  him ; 
and  another  Comment  on  iEgidius  De  urivUs  is  found 
under  the  name  of  Gilbertus  Anglicus  among  the  manu^ 
scripts  of  Merton  College,  Oxford. 

Edition. 

Compen^iim  medicine  Gilberti  anglici  tarn  morbomj  ▼niuersAUfl  qua  parti- 
cnlarium  nondmn  medicig  aed  8t  cyrai^eia  vtitigaimiim.  ^emndBBtiir 
Logduni  in  Tioo  Mercuriali  sub  intereignio  AngelL  At  the  end,  f  Expli- 
cit compendium  medicine  Gilberti  Anglici  correctum  et  bene  emendatum 
per  dominum  Michaelem  de  Capella  artium  et  medicine  doctorem  :  ac 
Lugduni  Impressum  per  Jacobu)  Saccon  .  ezpenaia  Vincentii  de  Porto- 
narijs.  Anno  Domini.  M.D.  z.  die  vero  Tigesima  oiensia  Nouembris. 
Deo  Gratiafl.  8to. 


WILLIAM  DU  MONT. 

This  scholar  is  said  to  have  been  a  native  of  Leicester, 
but,  from  the  circumstanoe  of  his  having  opened  a  school 
of  theology  on  the  Mount  of  St.  Genevieve  «t  Paris,  he 
was  generafly  known  by  the  name  of  William  du  Mont. 
He  was  the  friend  of  Ginddus  Catnbrensis,  and  of  most  of 
the  distingaished  English  scholars  of  his  day.  Giraldtrs 
attended  his  lectures  in  Paris,  which  must  have  been  prior 
to  1172,  when  Giraldus  returned  to  England.  After  Wil- 
liam's return  to  England,  the  date  xst  which  is  not  known, 
he  was  appointed  chancellor  of  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  and 
he  opened  a  school  at  Lincoln,  which  became  as  cele- 
brated as  that  which  be  had  left  at  Paris.  He  died  in 
1213,  and  was  buried  in  Lincoln  Cathedral.* 

^*  See  the  Chronicle  of  Mailros,  sub  an.  Mccxri. 


464  WILLIAM  THE  TROUVBRE. 

The  works  of  William  du  Mont  are  almost  all  on  theo- 
logical subjects,  and  are  rather  numerous^  but  none  of 
sufficient  importance  to  render  it  necessary  to  give 
their  titles.  He  appears  to  have  been  profoundly  skilled 
in  that  subtile  method  of  teaching  and  arguing  which  had 
its  head-quarters  in  the  Parisian  university,  and  which  is 
considered  one  of  the  distinguishing  characteristics  of  the 
scholastic  divinity  of  the  thirteenth  century.  Manuscripts 
of  the  writings  of  William  du  Mont  occur  not  imfire- 
quendy  in  the  libraries  of  Oxford  and  Cambridge^  but 
none  of  them  appear  to  have  been  printed. 


WILLIAM  THE  TROUVERE. 

A  trouv^re  named  William^  who  was  certainly  an  eccle- 
siastic, although  there  appears  no  reason  for  identifying 
him  with  William  the  clerk,  occurs  in  a  manuscript  in  the 
British  Museum  (MS.  Egerton,  No.  612)  as  the  author  of 
a  collection  of  miracles  of  the  virgin  and  saints'  legends  in 
Anglo-Norman  verse.  The  commencement  of  this  work 
is  unfortunately  lost,  or  we  should  probably  have  known 
more  of  its  author;  who  incidently  informs  us  that 
although  commonly  called  William,  his  more  proper  name 
was  ^'Adgar/'  which  would  lead  us  to  believe  him  of 
Anglo-Saxon  blood. 

Par  9eo  ke  Pen  seit  escriver, 
Qu'enz  Utto  se  denit  nomer 
Idl  ki  le  Uvre  translate, 
Fbr  tant  iert  le  livre  sans  barate ; 
Mat  volentirs  me  namerai. 
Adgar  ai  nun,  m^  el  i  sai, 
la  plosor  me  apelent  Williame ; 
Bien  le  poent  faire  sang  blasme, 
Kar  par  oel  nan  ftii  prime  seineti 
E  pnis  par  Adgar  baptizet. 


WILLIAM  THE  TROTTVERE.  465 

Pur  qeo  par  raisun  m'est  avis, 
Ke  enz  es  nuns  n'ai  rien  mespriSi 
Ne  dl  ki  Willame  me  claiment. 
Ore  me  apelgent  que!  ke  nulz  aiment. 

William  informs  us  that  he  translated  his  work  from  a 
Latin  book  in  the  almarie^  or  ambry^  of  St.  PauFs  church 
in  London.  It  commences  with  a  series  of  miracles  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  among  which  are  introduced  the  legend 
of  Theophilus,  (fol.  21,  v^),  and  an  account  of  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Feast  of  the  Conception  of  the  Virgin,  (fol. 
39,  r"*),  which  had  been  treated  at  more  length  by  Wace. 
At  the  commencement  of  the  history  of  Theophilus*,  which 
he  confesses  had  been  translated  before,  the  author  in- 
forms us  that  this  work  was  not  his  only  literary  produc- 
tion.— 

Meint  bel  aermim  ax  descrit, 

Ci  retmis  on  sens  pariit, 

Auctoriz^  e  rename. 

Bien  sai  k'U  ert  ain^  translate  ; 

Mais  pur  ^eo  ke  en  present  le  truii, 

Laisser  ne  dei,  ne  jo  ne  puis. 

CU  ne  V  seit  ne  nnkes  ne  V  yit, 

A  qui  jo  faz  icest  escrit, 

Ke  li  autre,  si  cum  jo  cret, 

Ki  cest  livre  enquierent  de  mei. 

Pur  9eo  ne  V  Tuil  mie  laisser ; 

Kar  bel  m'est  si  travaHler, 

Pur  Deu  servir  e  yus  plaisir. 

The  latter  part  of  the  book  is  occupied  with  short  legends 
of  saints,  among  which  appears  that  of  Dunstan. 

*  The  legend  of  Theophilus,  which  bears  some  analogy  to  that  of  Dr. 
Fausttts,  was  very  popular  in  the  Middle  Ages.  Rutebeuf,  in  the  thirteenth 
century,  made  it  the  subject  of  a  miracle  play  in  French.  M.  Jubinal,  in 
the  second  volume  of  his  edition  of  the  works  of  Rutebeuf,  has  published 
a  long  French  poem  on  the  same  subject  by  Gautier  de  Coinsy, 


TOL.  II.  2  H 


466 


MINOR  WRITERS 

DURING   THE   REIGNS   OF   RICHARD   I.   AND  JOHN. 

The  minor  authors  of  this  period  whose  names  have 
come  down  to  us  are  less  numerous  than  might  have  been 
expected.  Among  the  compilers  of  local  histories  we  may 
mention  Geoffrey  of  Coldingham^  a  monk  of  Dur- 
bam^  who  about  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  century  was 
made  sacrist  of  the  priory  of  Coldingham  in  Scotland,  a 
cell  of  Durham.  Here  he  compiled  a  brief  history  of  the 
church  of  Durham  from  1152  to  1214^  soon  after  which 
date  he  probably  died.  This  history  was  first  published 
by  Henry  Wharton,*  but  a  more  complete  edition  has 
been  given  by  Mr.  Raine  in  one  of  the  publications  of 
the  Surtees  Society.f  Tanner  conjectured  that  Geofirey 
was  the  author  of  lives  of  Godric  of  Finchale  and  Bartho- 
lomew of  Fame,  preserved  in  one  of  the  Fairfax  manu- 
scripts in  the  Bodleian  library. 

GiRARD  OF  Cornwall  {Girardw  Comubiensis)  is  a 
writer  whose  history  is  involved  in  much  obscurity, 
and  who  has  even  been  supposed  by  some  to  be  the  same 
person  as  Giraldus  Cambrensis.  The  historian  Rudboum, 
printed  in  Wharton's  Anglia  Sacra,  dtes  on  several  occa- 
sions the  works  of  this  writer  De  geitis  BrUonum  and  De 
gestis  regum  Westsaxonum.  At  the  end  of  a  manuscript 
of  Higden's  Polychronicon^  in  the  library  of  Magdalene 
College,  Oxford,  the  scribe  has  copied  the  history  of  Guy 
of  Warwick  from  the  eleventh  chapter  of  Girardus  Comu- 
biensis  De  gestiB  regum  Westsaxonum,  and  from  thence  it 
was  printed  by  Heame  in  the  Appendix  to  his  edition  of 

*  Anglia  Sacra,  vol  i.  p.  718. 

t  Hiitom  DHB«lia«ani  Saip^rei  troi*  8t9.  1839. 


MINOR  WAITERS*  467 

the  Annals  of  Dunstaple ;  but  the  original  work  is  not 
now  known  to  exist.  It  may  be  added  that  it  is  even 
doubtful  at  what  period  this  writer  lived. 

Nicholas  de  Walkinoton^  a  monk  of  Kirkham  in 
Yorkshire^  was  the  author  of  brief  narratives  of  the  war 
between  Henry  I.  and  Louis  le  Oros  of  France^  and  of  the 
famous  battle  of  the  Standard  under  king  Stephen^  pre- 
served in  MS.  Cotton.  Titus  A.  xix.  Bale  ascribes  to 
a  person  of  this  name  a  history  of  Walter  Espec  (perhaps 
the  narrative  of  the  Battle  of  the  Standard^  in  which  that 
baron  was  engaged)^  and  a  treatise  De  virtutibus  et  vUiiSi 
and  says  that  he  flourished  in  1193. 

Two  poets  occur  during  this  period^  named  Mau- 
rice. One  of  them  was  a  Welshman,  the  friend  of 
Giraldus  Cambrensis,  who  mentions  him  in  terms  of  high 
commendation  in  the  third  distinction  of  his  treatise  De 
instUuHone  principis.  Bale  ascribes  to  him  Epigrammata 
guadam,  lib»  i.y  and  Carmina  et  epistokBy  lib.  t.  The  other 
was  Maurice  of  Forde,  a  native  of  Somersetshire  and 
monk  of  the  house  from  which  he  takes  his  name.  Leland 
says  that  he  wrote  a  poem  De  schemate  pontificali,  dedi- 
cated to  Reginald,  bishop  of  Bath  3  and  Bale  ascribes  to 
him  also  Carminum  lib.  u 

Another  minor  Latin  poet  appears  to  have  flourished 
at  this  period,  named  John  de  St.  Omer,  although  he 
was  a  native  of  Norfolk.  Some  poet,  of  whose  name 
we  are  ignorant,  but  who  was  probably  a  monk  of  Peter- 
borough, had  written  a  bitter  rhyming  satire  upon  the 
people  of  Norfolk.  John  de  St.  Omer  took  up  the  pen 
in  defence  of  his  native  county,  and  composed  his  answer 
in  the  same  kind  of  verse  as  that  of  the  Peterborough 

2  h2 


470  MINOR  WRITERS. 

a  Protfueoy  lib.  i. ;  Super  varus  ariiculis  fidei,  lib.  i. ;  De 
ecclesue  potestate^  lib.  i. ;  De  pote$iate  vUaria,  Kb.  i. ; 
De  cessatione  papali,  lib.  i.  But^  as  we  have  often  had 
occasion  to  observe.  Bale's  statements  must  be  taken  with 
some  degree  of  caution. 

John  Citmtn  {Joannes  Cumynus),  who  appears  to  have 
been  a  monk  of  Evesham,  was  elected  in  1172  arohbiahop 
of  DuUin,*  where  in  1185  he  held  a  ootmcii  and  read  a 
discourse  De  sacramentis  eccksue,  which,  with  some  of 
his  letters,  is  said  to  have  been  preserved  in  a  manuscript 
in  the  collection  of  Petavius,  and  to  have  been  seen  tiiere 
by  Dempster. 

John  abbot  of  Forde  was  a  theological  writer  of 
some  reputation  at  the  end  of  the  twelfth  and  beginning 
of  the  thirteenth  centuries.  He  is  said  to  have  held  the 
o£Gice  of  confessor  to  king  John.  We  are  unacquainted 
With  the  year  of  his  death,  but  Leland  tells  us  he  was 
buried  without  much  pomp  in  his  abbey  church.  Among 
his  theological  writings  Leland  enumerates  a  hundred  and 
twenty  homilies,  an  Expositio  super  IReremamf  a  treatbe 
De  contemptumundi,  and  a  work  Super  cantica  canticorum. 
The  last  of  these  works  appears  to  have  been  nothing 
more  than  the  homilies  under  another  title ;  they  aire  liaid 
to  be  preserved  among  the  manuscripts  of  Balliol  college, 
Oxford.  His  life  of  St.  Wulfric,  the  hermit,  dedicated  in 
two  separate  epstles  to  BarHioloinew  bishop  of  Exrter, 
and  to  Baldwin  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  is  preserved 
in  MS.  Cotton.  Faustina  B.  iv.  A  sermon  by  John  of 
Forde  ia  preserved  in  a  manuscript  in  the  Bodleian 
library. 

»  Okaldus  Cambr.  JSipugm  Uibem.  cc.  23^25. 


MINOR  WRITERS.  4/1 

Hugh  db  Nonant,  an  ecclesiastic  who  acted  a  pro- 
minent part  in  the  political  intrigues  of  the  reign  of 
Richard  I.,  and  who  rendered  himself  remarkable  for  his 
bitter  enmity  to  William  de  Longchamp^  need  only  be 
mentioned  as  the  author  of  a  letter  quoted  by  Roger  de 
Hoveden  and  Radulph  de  Diceto^  written  in  a  rhetorical 
style^and  giving  an  exulting  account  of  the  fall  and  banish- 
ment of  that  prelate.  This  letter  is  often  found  sepa- 
rately in  manuscripts.  Hugh  de  Nonant  was  made  bishop 
of  Lichfield  in  1185,  and  died  in  Normandy  in  1199. 

Richard^  an  English  abbot  of  the  order  of  Premontr^ 
but  of  which  house  is  not  known,  was  the  author  of  various 
theological  treatises  of  no  interest  at  the  present  day, 
some  of  which  are  preserved  in  the  libraries  of  Oxford 
and  Cambridge.  He  is  said  also  to  have  been  the  author 
of  a  life  of  St.  Ursula  ^  and  Bale  ascribes  to  him  a  chronicle 
from  1064  to  1284,  which  must  be  a  mistake,  as  be  is  said 
to  have  flourished  in  1190. 

A  diligent  search  might,  perhaps,  add  a  few  insignificant 
names  to  the  foregoing  list,  such  as  John  of  Tilbury, 
who  is  supposed  to  have  written  some  sermons ;  jSam- 
SON  abbot  of  Bury,  who  wrote,  it  is  said,  a  collection  of 
the  miracles  of  St.  Edmund,  the  patron  saint  of  his  house, 
&c.  John  op  Wallingford,  abbot  of  St.  Alban's,  is 
described  by  Matthew  Paris  as  a  man  of  learning :  but  that 
hist<man  does  not  ascribe  to  him  any  writings,  and  it  is 
more  than  probable  that  the  chronicle  printed  under  his 
name  by  Gale,  and  other  works  which  go  under  the  same 
name>  were  the  composition  of  a  monkish  writer  who  lived 
at  a  later  period. 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST. 


The  Anglo-Norman  language  has  not  hitherto  been  made  the 
object  ofcL  particular  studtf,  and  no  grammar  or  dictionary  has 
been  published.  The  following  list  includes  the  few  anontfmous 
pieces  in  the  Anglo-Norman  of  the  twelfth  century  which  have 
been  printed. 


Leges  Anglo-Saxonic®  ecclesiastic»  et  civiles.  By  David  Wilkin^. 
Lond.  1721,  fol.    The  Anglo-Norman  Laws. 

Die  Gesetze  der  Angelsachsen  . . .  Herausgegeben  von  Dr.  Rein- 
hold  Schmid.  Leipzig,  1832,  8vo.  The  Anglo-Norman 
Laws. 

Essais  Historiques  sur  les  Bardes,  les  Jongleurs,  et  les  Trouv^res, 
Normands  et  Anglo-Normaads;  ...  par  M.  TAbbS  de  la 
Rue.    Caen,  1834.    3  vols.  Bvo. 

Anglo-Norman  Poem  on  the  Conquest  of  Ireland  by  Henry  the 
Second,  from  a  manuscript  preserved  in  the  archiepiscopal 
library  at  Lambeth  Palace,  edited  by  Frandsque  Michel. 
London,  1837,  fcp.  8vo. 

Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  England,  fol.  and  8vo*  London, 
1840.  Edited  by  Benjamin  Thorpe,  and  published  by  the 
Record  Commission.  The  Anglo-Norman  laws  of  William 
the  Conqueror,  the  best  text. 
Les  Quatre  Livres  des  Rois,  traduits  en  Franfais  du  zii^^  sidcle, 
suivis  d'un  fragment  de  Moralit6s  sur  Job,  et  d'on  choix  de 
sermons  de  Saint  Bernard,  publics  par  M.  Le  Rous  de 
Lincy.    Paris,  Imprimerie  royale,  1841,  4to« 


CHRONOLOGICAL  SERIES 


OP  tHE 


LITERARY  CHARACTERS  NOTICED  IN  THIS  AND 

THE  PRECEDING  VOLUME. 


Vol.  L— Anglo-Saxon  Pbriod* 

A.0. 

530—600.  Gildas. 
Nennius. 
St.  Columbanus. 
Died  709.  Wilfred, 

690.  Benedict  Biscop. 
c.  680.  Csedmon. 

704.  Adamnan* 

705.  Haeddi^  or  Hedda. 
709.  Aldhelm. 

c.  71 3*  Egwin. 

720.  Eddius  Stephanas. 

721.  John  of  Beverley. 
716.  Ceolfrid. 

729.  Egbert. 
721.  Eadfrith. 
726.  Tobias. 
731.  Berctwald. 
734.  Tatwine. 
fl.  730.  Felix. 
738.  Wilbrord. 
735«  Bede. 


474 


CHRONOLOOICAI.  SERIES 


A.  D. 

740. 

732. 

739. 

745. 

740. 
after  737. 
after  731. 


766. 

758. 
755. 

787. 

789. 
804. 
763. 
797. 


868. 

c.  877. 

901. 
910. 
923. 
915. 
897. 
903. 

877. 


Aoca^ 

Albinus^ 

NoihheliD, 

Daniel^ 

Ethelwald^ 

Forthhere^ 

Hwetbert, 

Plegwin^ 

Withred, 

Cuthberty 

Egbert  of  York, 

Cuthbert  of  Canterbury. 

Boniface  (Winfrid). 

WiUibald. 

WiUehad. 

Alcuin. 

Frithwald. 

Ethelbert. 

Ethelwolf. 

Dicuil. 

Swithun. 

Neot 

King  Alfred. 

Asser. 

Plegmund* 

Werferth. 

Denewulf. 

Grimbald. 

John  the  ^^  mass-priest.'^ 

Joannes  Scotus» 

HucariuSa 

Ercoxnbert. 

Aldred  the  Glossator. 


the  literary  friends  of  Bede. 


OV  LITERARY  MSN.  4*li 

A,  D. 

961.  Odo  archbishop  of  Canterbury* 
fl.  956.  Fridegode. 

984.  Ethelwold. 

988.  Dunstan. 

992.  Oswald. 

974.  Aio. 

988.  Folbertus. 
Bricstan. 
fl.  980.  Lantfredus. 
fl.  990.  Wobtan. 
fl.  980.  Bridferth. 
fl.  990.  Alfiric  of  Mahnsbury. 

1006.  Alfric  of  Canterbury. 
Adalard. 

1051.  Alfric  Bata. 

1008.  Cynewulf^  or  Kenulf • 

1023.  Wulfstan. 
fl.  1010.  Oswald^ 

1038.  Ethehoth^  f    . 

fl.  1020.  Haymo  of  York, 

1054.  Haymo  of  Canterbury, 

1047.  Wiihman. 
fl.  1066.  Folchard. 

1077*  Hereman. 

1086.  Giso. 

1098.  Ootselin. 
fl.  1090.  Ethelwardi 

1095.  Wulstan. 


476  chronological  series 

Vol.  IL — ^Anglo-Norman  period. 

A.  D* 

Died  1089.  Lanfranc. 

c.  1076.  Guy  bishop  of  Amiens, 
fl.  1082.  Garland. 

1095.  Robert  bishop  of  Hereford. 

1096.  William  bishop  of  Dm*ham. 
1098.  Osmmid  bishop  of  Salisbury. 
1100.  Thomas  archbishop  of  York, 

c.  1100.  Osbem  of  Canterbury. 

1109.  Ingulf. 

1107«  Godfrey  of  Winchester, 
fl.  1 100.  Lucian  of  Chester, 
fl.  1102.  SsBWulf. 

1108.  Gundulf. 

1108.  Gerard  archbishop  of  York, 

Minor  Writers  of  the  llth  century. 

fl.  1082.  Sulcard. 
1096.  Ricemarchus. 

Hemming)  sub-prior  of  Worcester. 

Hamelinus  of  VerulaQi. 
1113.  Colman. 

Alwm,  or  AUwin. 
1117.  Faritius. 

Leofric  of  Brun. 

Warmer,  or  Gamier. 

Johannes  Grammaticus. 


1109.  Anselm. 
1135.  King  Henry  I. 
fl.  1110.  William  of  Chester* 

1114.  Gilbert  Crispin. 

1115.  Turgot. 


v> 


OP  LITERARY  MEN,  477 

A.  D. 

1118.  Florence  of  Worcester. 

1119.  Herebert  bishop  of  Norwich, 
fl.  1112.  Reginald  of  Canterbury. 

1124.  Ernulph  bishop  of  Rochester. 

1124.  Eadmer. 

1134.  Stephen  Harding, 
fl.  1120.  PhiUp  de  Thaun. 
fl.  1124.  Roger  Infans. 
fl.  1125.  Hilarius. 
fl.  1 120.  Athelard  of  Bath, 
fl.  1129.  Simeon  of  Durham. 

1134.  Gilbert  bishop  of  London  (Universalis). 

1137.  Ailmen 

Minor  writers  of  the  reign  of  Henry  L 

1122.  Radulph  bishop  of  Rochester. 

1124.  Nicholas  prior  of  Worcester, 
fl.  1120.  GeoflFrey  of  Landafi". 
fl.  1120.  Benedict  of  Gloucester, 
fl.  1120.  David  bishop  of  Bangor. 

1129.  Gilbert  archdeacon  of  Buckingham. 

1 146.  Geoffrey  abbot  of  St.  Alban's. 

1 1 14.  Thomas  of  Bayeux^  archbishop  of  York. 

1140.  Thurstan,  archbishop  of  York. 

1112.  Stephen  of  Whitby. 


after  1143.  Ordericus  Vitalis. 
fl.  1143.  Robert  de  Retines. 

Turold. 

Everard. 

Helys  of  Winchester. 

Samson  de  Nanteuil. 

Guiscard  or  Guichard  de  Beaulieu. 
fl.  1140.  William  of  Malmsbury. 


— ».  .. 


478  OHROHOLOOIOAL  «BRIBS 

A.D. 

1154*  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth, 
fl.  1148.  Gaimar. 

David. 
fl.  1150.  Alfred  of  Beverley, 
fl.  1 150.  Osbem  of  Gloucester. 
1154.  Laurence  of  Durham, 
c.  1154.  CaradoG  of  Lancarvan. 
after  1154.  Henry  of  Huntingdon, 
after  1154.  William  de  Conches, 
after  1155.  Hugo  Candidus. 

Minor  Writers  imder  Sttfhtn. 

1151.  Geoffirey  of  Burton, 
fl.  1140.  Robert  of  Salop, 
fl.  1140.  Nicholas  of  St.  Alban's. 

1146.  WiUiam  of  Rievauz. 
Richard  of  Worcester. 


fl.  1150.  Robert  le  Poule. 
fl.  1143.  Richard  of  Hexham, 
fl.  1170.  John  of  Hexham, 
fl.  1159.  Robert  of  Cricklade. 

1166.  Ailred  of  Rievaux. 
fl.  1165.  Reginald  of  Durham. 

1164.  Hugh  abbot  of  Reading. 

1167«  Robert  de  Melun,  bishop  of  Hereford.  \ 
fl.  1168.  William  of  Pfeterborough. 

1170.  Thomas  Beckett  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
after  II71.  Wace. 

fl.  1170.  Radulph  de  Dunstable, 
fl.  1 170.  William  of  St.  Alban's. 
fl.  1170,  John  of  Cornwall. 
fl.  11^0.  Gervase  of  Chichester, 
fl.  1170.  Roger  of  Hereford. 


OF  LXTBBULBY  MEN.  4^9 

A.D. 

fl.  1170.  Alfred  the  Philosopher, 
fl.  1174.  Jordan  Fantosme. 
fl.  1175.  Odo  of  Kent, 
fl.  1175.  Odo  de  Cirington. 
fl.  1160.  Roger  of  Salisbury, 
fl.  1175.  Daniel  de  Merlai.  - 

1180.  John  of  Salisbury: 

1180.  Adam  du  Petit  Pont 

1184.  Girard  la  Pucelle. 

1186.  Bartholomew  bishop  of  Ezeten 
fl.  1184.  John  de  Hauteville. 
fl,  1185.  Jocelin  of  Fumess. 
fl.  1180.  Benoit  de  Sainte-Maur. 
fl.  1180.  Clement  of  Lanthony. 
fl.  1180.  Robert  of  Bridlington, 
fl.  1180.  Herebert  of  Bosham. 

1188.  Gilbert  Foliot 

1186.  Robert  Foliot. 

1190.  Ranulph  de  Glanville. 
bef.  1195.  Richard  of  Ely. 
fl.  1174.  Thomas  of  Ely. 

Gervase  of  TObury. 

1193.  Richard  bishop  of  London. 

1190.  Baldwin  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
Walter  Mapes. 
Robert  de  Borron. 
Luces  de  Gast. 

Mimr  writers  of  the  reign  qf  Henry  IL 

SerlOi 

Daniel  Church, 
fl.  1170,  Thomas  of  Beverley. 
Gualo. 
Hugo  tSfoteeyaginaf 


480  CHRONOLOGICAL  SERIES 

A.D. 

1 1 77*  Walter  the  Grammarian» 
ft.  1180.  Odo  abbot  of  Muremund. 
fl.  1185.  William^  the  astronomer. 

Richard  abbot  of  Fountains. 

Albericus  de  Vere. 
fl.  1160.  William  de  Wycumb. 

Thomas  of  Monmouth. 

Nicholas  monk  of  Durham. 

Osbert  of  Clare, 
fl.  1160.  Adalbert  of  Spalding. 

Radulph  monk  of  Westminster, 
fl.  1170.  Walter  Daniel. 

Samson  monk  of  Canterbury, 
fl.  1171»  Robert  of  Glastonbury. 

Henry  of  Saltrey. 
1176.  Laurence  abbot  of  Westminster. 

1180.  Adam  the  Scot. 
Roger  of  Forde. 
fl.  1180.  Walter,  monk  of  St.  Alban's. 
fl.  1180.  Philip  prior  of  St.  Prideswithe's. 

1191.  Adam  abbot  of  Evesham. 


1199.  King  Richard  Coeur-de-Lion. 
fl.  1175.  Guemes  du  Pont  de  St.  Maxence, 

Bozun,  or  Boson. 

Herman. 

Hugh  de  Rutland. 

Thomas. 

Philip  de  Reimes. 

Maurice  and  Peter  de  Craon. 

Renaud  de  Hoil^nde. 

Simon  du  Fresne. 
fl.  1186.  Nigellus  Wireker. 

1 1 93.  Benedict  of  Peterborough. 


OF  LITERARY  UBN.  481 


A.  D. 

A.  1192.  Richard  of  Devizes. 

William  Fitz-Stephen. 
1202.  Alan  of  Tewkesbury, 
Roger  of  Croyland. 
after  1198.  Peter  of  Blois. 

1223.  Giraldus  Cambrensis. 
GeoflFrey  de  Vinsauf. 
Joseph  of  Exeten 
b.  1 136.  William  of  Newbury, 
after  1201.  Roger  de  Hoveden* 
fl.  1193.  John  of  Brompton. 
Radulph  de  Diceto. 
fl.  1200.  Richard  the  Canon. 
1 207.  Walter  de  Coutances. 
Gulielmus  Peregrinus. 
Hugh  de  Hoveden.       , 
fl.  1174.  Genrase  of  Canterbury. 
Radulph  Niger. 
William  of  Ramsey. 
William  the  Clerk. 
Thomas  de  Bailleul. 
Orm. 

Nicholas  de  Guildford* 
Layamon. 
1228.  Stephen  de  Langton» 
1228.  Gervase  bishop  of  Seez. 
1217*  Alexander  Neckam. 
fl.  1200.  Josoelin  de  Brakelonde. 
fl.  1210.  Gilbertus  Anglicus. 
1213.  William  du  Mont. 

William  the  trouvere. 


VOL.  II.  2  i" 


482      CHRONOLOGICAL  8EB1BB  OF  LITERARY  MEN. 
A.  D. 

Minor  writers  during  the  reigns  of  Richard  L  and  John. 
fl«  1214.  Geoffirey  of  Coldingham* 

Girard  of  Cornwall, 
fl.  1193.  Nicholas  de  Walkington. 

Maurice  of  Wales. 

Maurice  of  Ford. 

John  de  St.  Omer. 

Adam  of  Dore. 

Adam  of  Elinesham. 

Robert  de  Beaufey. 
1220.  Alexander  le  Pargiter. 
fl   1172.  John  Cumyn. 

John  abbot  of  Forde. 
1199.  Hugh  de  Nonant. 

Richard  the  Premonstrensian. 

John  of  jnibury. 

Samson  abbot  of  Bury. 

John  of  Wallingford,  abbot  of  St.  Alban's. 


INDEX. 


Adalbxrt  of  Spalding,  319 

Adam  of  Dore,  468  . 

Adam  of  Einesbam,  flouriBhed  1196, 

469 
Adam  abbot  of  BTesbam,  in  1161, 

3SS 
Adam  du  Petit  Pont,  died  1180, 

245 
Adam  tbe  Scot,  died  1180,  8S9 
AiLMBR  prior  of  Canterbury,  died 

1137,  104 
AiLRBD  OF  RiBVAUz,  bom  in  1 109, 

187,  made  abbot  of  Reresby  and 

of  Rievanx,   188,  died  in   1166, 

190.    His  cbarocter  and  works, 

190—195 
Alan  abbot  of  Tewkesbury,  died  in 

1S03,  365 
Albbric  db  Vbrb,  canon  of  St. 

Osytb's,  317 
Albzandbr  Nbckam,  bom  1157, 

died  1S17,  449,  bis  works,  450, 

bis  poetry,  452 — 457,  bis  scientific 

treatises,  457,  458 
Albxandbr   lb    Paroitbr,    died 

1390,  469 
Alfrbd,  an  Bnglish  writer  on  sci- 
ence, flourisbed  in  1170,  230 
Alprbd  op  Bbtbrlbt,  tbe  abbre- 

yiator  of  OeofFrey  of  Monmoutb, 

155 
Alwin,  an  English  bermit,  47 
Amsblm,  born  at  Aosta  aboat  1033, 


49,  repairs  to  Lanfronc  at  Bee,  50, 
visits  England,  51,  made  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  53,  his  dis- 
putes  with  king  William  Rufus, 
54— 57,  and  with  Henry  I.  57—59, 
died  in  1109,  his  character  and 
works,  59 — 63.  Poems  on  him  by 
William  of  Chester,  67.  Eadmer's 
account  of  his  journey  from  Lyons 
to  Rome,  83 
Athblard  of  Bath,  a  writer  on 
science,  flourished  1 1 1 0 —  1 1 20, 
94,  his  travels,  95,  his  love  for  the 
Arabian  sciences,  96, 97,  his  works, 
98—101 

Baldwin,  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, died  1190,  291 

Bartholombw  bishop  of  Exeter, 
died  1186,  248 

Beavers  in  England,  described  by 
Giraldns  Cambrensis,  390 

Bbckbt,  Thomas,  see  Thomas 

Bbnbdict  monk  of  Gloucester, 
UvedinUSO,  107 

Bbnbdict  of  Peterborough,  died 
1193,358 

Benoit  Db  Saintb-Maur,  an 
Anglo-Norman  poet,  flourished 
in  1 180, 258,  his  romance  of  Troy, 
259—261,  his. chronicle  of  the 
dukes  of  Normandy,  263—364 

Bozun,  on  Anglo-Norman  poet,  331 


484 


INDEX. 


BrihtDoth,  abbot  of  Elj,  aooount  of 
his  death,  281 

Cakadoc  of  LancarvaOy  the  histo- 
rian, died  about  1154, 166 

Cato,  tranalatioiis  of  the  Diitieha  of» 
133—128  I 

Ciatercian  order,  founded  by  Stephen 
Harding,  85 

Citiea  of  England,  characters  of  the, 
361 

Clbmsnt  of  Lanthony,  author  of  a 
harmony  of  the  Gospels,  flourished 
in  1180,  265 

CoLMAN,  a  monk  of  Worcester,  46 

CONCHSS,  William  de,  see  WiUiam 

Daniel  ChVrcb,  a  Latin  poet,  313 

Daniel  de  Meulai,  a  writer  on 

science,  flourished  in  1175,  937, 

extracts  from  his  treatise  Dena* 

turif  ii^eriorum  et  ntperiorum, 

328—230 

DAVin,an  Anglo-Norman  poet,  154 

Davio,  bishop  of  Bangor,  lived  in 

1125,  108 
Duriiam.  its  site  described  byTur- 
got,  73 

Eadmbr,  the  friend  and  biographer 

of  Anselm,   died    1134,   80,    his 

writmgs,  81 — 83 
Ely,  derastations  committed    there 

by  king  Stephen,  283 
England,  Alexander  Neckam's  verses 

in  praise  of,  456 
Enoch  and  El^ah,  legend  relating  to 

them,  183 
Ebnvlph,    bishop    of    Rochester, 

author  of  the  Textus  HoffemsU, 

died  1124,  79 
EvKRAEO,  aA  Anglo-Norman  poet, 


author  of  a  translation  of  Cato'a 
Disticha,  123 
Exchequer,  old  definition  of  the,  288 

Faritius,  a  writer  of  Utcs  of  saints, 

47 
Fitz-Stspbbn,  William,  sec  WU- 

Ham 
Florence  of  Worcester,  an  English 
chronicler,  died  1118,  73 

Gaimar,  see  Cfeqffrep 

Garnier,  see  Wamier 

Gbovfret  abbot  of  St.  AIbans*s« 
died  1146, 109 

Geoffrey  of  Burton,  died  1151, 179 

Geoffrey  of  Coldingham,  a  his- 
torian of  Durham,  died  soon  after 
1214,  466 

Geoffrey  Gaimar,  author  of  a 
metrical  Anglo-Norman  chronicle 
of  England,  flourished  in  1148, 151 

Geoffrey,  dean  of  Landaff,  lived 
in  1130,  107 

Geoffrey    of    Monmouth,  died 
1154,  143.     Account  of  his  His- 
tory of  the    Britons,   144—148» 
metrical  life  of  Merlin  ascribed  to 
him,  148,  149 
Geoffrey  de  Vinsauf,  flourished 
under  Blchard  I.  398,  his  Nova 
Foetria,  398—402 
Gbrland,  a  mathematical  writer» 
flourished  in  1083,  16,  his  treatise 
on  the  Computus,  17 
Gerard,  archbishop  of  York,  died 

1108,43 
Gervabb,  of  Canterbury,  flourished 

in  1184,  419 
Gervase,  of  Chichester,  flourished 

in  1170,  217 
Gervase,  bishop  of  Sees,  died  1228, 
448 


INDBX. 


485 


GcRVASJi  OFTiLBuaT»  883»  acoount 
of  his  OiiaUtperiaUa,  884—286,  ' 
dialogae  on  the  Exchequer  attri- 
buted to  him,  886—889 

61LBKRTU8  Analicvb,  the  first 
English  medical  writer,  flourished 
in  1810,  461 

61LBBBT,  archdeacoii  of  Bucking- 
ham, died  1129, 108 

GUiBBBT  Crispin,  died  1114,  a 
disciple  of  Lanfrane,  68 

61LBBRT  FoLioT,  bishop  of  Here- 
ford  and  London,  an  opponent  of 
Beeket,  died  1183,  870,  his  Let- 
ters, 278,  aocoont  of  him  by 
Goemes  du  Pont  de  St.  Mazence, 
330 

GiLBBRT,  bishop  of  London  (Gil- 
bertos  Univerialis),  died  1134, 103 

GiraldusCambrbnbib,  bom  abont 
1146,  380,  made  archdeacon  of 
Brecknock,  381,  visits  Ireland, 
383,  recites  his  Topography  of 
Ireland  at  Oxford,  384,  accom- 
panies archbishop  Baldwin  through 
Wales,  385,  his  disputes  with  king 
John,  387,  388,  his  works  de- 
scribed, 389—397 

GiRA&D  of  ComwaU,  466 

GiRARD  LA  Pucbixb,  died  1184,246 

Glanvillb,  Ranulph  de,  see  /Za- 
tnUph 

Godfrey,  of  Winchester,  died  1107, 
a  natiTe  of  Cambrai,  33,  his  epi- 
grams, 34 — 36 

Gravitation,  doctrine  of,  understood 
by  Alexander  Neckam,  458 

GuALO,  a  Latin  poet,  314 

GuBRNBs  DU  Pont  db  St.  Max- 
BNCB,  flourished  in  1175,  328 

GviscARD  DB  Beaulibu,  SB  Anglo- 


Norman   poet,    bis   history   and 

writings,  131 
GuNDULF,  died  1108,  made  bishop 

of  Rochester  by  Lanfrane,  41 
GvT,  bishop  of  Amiens,  died  about 

1076.    Author  of  a  poem  on  the 

battle  of  Hastings»  15 

Hamblinvb  of  Verulam,  46 

Hblts  of  Winchester,  an  Anglo- 
Norman  poet  who  translated  Cato's 
DitHeka,  124 

Hbmmino,  subprior  of  Worcester, 
46 

Hbnrt  I.  king  of  England,  writings 
attributed  to  him,  66 

Henry  II.  king  of  England,  his 
character  by  Peter  of  Blois,  375, 
by  Giraldus  Cambrensis,  391,398, 
by  William  of  Newbury,  406,  by 
Radulph  Niger,  423 

Hbnrt  of  Huntingdon,  died  after 
1154,  167,  his  Latin  poems,  169, 
his  history  of  England,  170—173 

Hbnrt  of  Saltrey,  381 

Hbrbbbrt  of  Bosham,  flourished  in 
1188,  869 

Hbrbbbrt  Losinga,  bishop  of 
Norwich,  died  1119,  75 

Hbrman,  an  Anglo-Norman  poet 
338 

HiLARius,  a  Latin  poet,  disciple  of 
Abelard,  flourished  1185,  91 

Historical  writers.  Ingulf,  88,  Tur- 
got,  71,  Florence  of  Worcester, 
73,  Eadmer,  80,  Suneon  of  Dur- 
ham, 101,  Ordericns  Yitalis,  111, 
William  of  Mahnsbury,  134,  Geof- 
frey of  Monmouth,  143,  Gaimar, 
151,  Alfred  of  Beverley,  155,  Ca- 
radoc  of  Lancarvan,  166,  Henry 


486 


INDEX. 


of  Himtiiigdon,  167,  Hugo  Can- 
didus,  176,  Richard  and  John  of 
Hexham,  184,  Ailred  of  BJeTaoz, 
187.  Wace,  S05,  Jordan  Fan- 
toame,  S81,  Benoit  de  Sainte- 
Manr,  253,  Thomaa  and  Richard 
of  Ely,  280,  Benedict  of  Peter- 
borough, 358,  Richard  of  Devises, 
360,  Giraldna  Cambieniii,  380, 
WilUam  of  Newbury,  407,  Roger 
de  Hoveden,  410,  John  of  Bromp- 
ton,  412,  Radulph  de  DiGeto,413, 
Richard  the  Canon,  415,  Gerraae 
of  Canterbury,  419,  Ranulph 
Niger,  422,  Geoffrey  of  Colding- 
ham,  466,  Girard  of  Cornwall.  466, 
Nicholas  de  Walkington,  467 

Homer,  medieval  notions  concerning 
him,  259 

Hugo  Candidub,  the  historian  of 
Peterborough,  died  after  1155, 177 

Hugh  de  Hoybbxn,  419 

Hugh  db  Nonant,  died  1199,  471 

Hugh,  abbot  of  Reading,  died  arch- 
bishop of  Rouen  in  1164, 198 

Hugh  db  Rutland,  an  Aoglo- Nor- 
man poet,  338 

Hugo  Sot  jit  agin  a,  a  Latin  poet, 
314 

Huntingdon,  Henry  of,  see  Henry 

Ingulp,  died  1109,  born  in  Eng- 
land, 28,  account  of  him,  29, 
doubts  respecting  the  authenticity 
of  his  history,  29 — 31,  account  of 
his  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem,  32 

John  of  Brompton,  abbot  of  Jer- 

vauzinll93,412 
John  of  Cornwall,  flourished  in  1 1 70, 

215 


John,  abbot  of  Forde,  470 

John  Cumyn,  flourished  1172,  470 

JocxLiN  of  Forness,  flourished  in 

1185,  257 
Johannbs  Gbambcaticus,  48 
John  db  Hautbvillb,  flourished 

hi  1184,  250,  abstract  of  his  Ar- 

chitrenins,  251--256 
John    of    Hexham,    a   historian, 

flourishedin  1154,184 
John  db  St.  Ombr,  a  Latin  poet, 

467 
John  -of  Sausburt,  died   1180, 

230,  his  account  of  his  studies  at 

Paris,  231,  he  returns  to  England, 

232,  his  attachment   to  Becket, 

233,  234,  made  bishop  of  Char- 
tres,  235,  his  Poiyeraiiew,  236, 
his  SntheHcuf,  240,  his  other 
works,  242,  243 

John  of  Tilbury,  471 

John  of  Walliogford,  471 

Jordan  Fantosmb,  an  Anglo-Nor- 
man poet  and  chronicler,  221 

JoacELiN  db  Brakelonde,  author 
of  a  history  of  the  affadrs  of  the  mo- 
nastery of  Bury  St.  Edmund's,  459 

Joseph  of  Exeter,  the  Latin  poet, 
402,  extracts  from  his  Trojan  War, 
403—405,  his  AntiocheTs,  405, 406 

Lady's  toilette  in  the  twelfth  century 
described,  453 

Lanpranc,  bom  about  1005,  died 
1089.  His  education,  p.  1,  he 
enters  the  church,  2,  obtains  the 
favour  of  William  duke  of  Nor- 
mandy, 5,  his  dispute  with  Beren- 
garius,  ib.  made  abbot  of  St.  Ste- 
phen at  Caen,  6,  and  archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  7,   his  character 


INDEX. 


487 


and  works,  9 — 14.  Godfrey  of 
Wincheeter's  epigram  oa  Lan- 
franc,  36 

Lawrbmcb«  prior  of  Dorham,  a 
Latin  poet,  died  1154,  160,  ab- 
stract of  his  Hypognosticon,  161  — 
164,  his  other  poems,  164,  165 

Laurkncv,  abbot  of  Westminster, 
died  in  1176,  331 

Lay  AMOK,  the  author  of  the  first 
English  poetical  version  of  the 
Bmt,  439 

Lear,  king,  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth's 
history  of  him,  147 

Lbopric  of  Brun,  an  Anglo-Saion 
writer,  47 

LucBS  Ds  Gabt,  a  writer  of  French 
prose  romances,  311 

LuoiAN  of  Chester,  author  of  a 
treatise  in  praise  of  that  dty  sup- 
posed to  have  been  written  in  1 1 00, 
36 

Malmssbury,  William  of,  see  WU- 

Ham 
Mapbs,  Walter,  see  Walter 
MAcraiCB  be  Craon,  a  writer  of 

songs,  347 
Mauricb  of  Forde,  467 
Mauricb,  a  Welsh  Latin  poet,  467 
Mbrlai,  Daniel  de,  see  Daniel 
Milo   Crispin,  author  of  a  life  of 

Lanfranc  1 
Moon,  Alexander  Neckam*s  remarks 

on  the  spots  in  the,  458 

Nbckam,  Alexander,  see  Alexander 
Nicholas  of  St.  Albania,  flourished 

in  1140, 180 
Nicholas  of  Durham,  318 
Nicholas  db  Guildford,  an  Eng- 
lish poet,  438 
Nicholas    db    Walkinoton, 
flourished  in  1193,  467 


Nicholas,  prior  of  Worcester,  died 

1124, 106 
NiOELLUS  Wirbker,  351,  account 

of  his  Speculum  SiuHorumy  354 — 

357 
Norfolk,  poem  against  the  people  of, 
466 

Odo  db  Cirinoton,  a  writer  of 
Fables,  flourished  in  1175,  226 

Odo  of  Kent,  abbot  of  Battle, 
flourished  in  1175,  224 

Odo  abbot  of  Muremund,  flourished 
in  1180,  315 

Oliver  of  Malmsbury,  an  astrono- 
mer, 18 

Ordbricvs  Vitalib,  bom  in  1075, 
died  after  1143,  111,  account  of 
his  historical  work,  112 — 115 

Orm,  the  author  of  a  harmony  of 
the  Gospels  in  English  Terse,  436 

OsBERN  of  Canterbury,  died  about 
1100,  a  writer  of  saints'  Utcs,  26 

OsBBRN  of  Gloucester,  flourished  in 
1150,  158 

OsBBRT  of  Clare,  prior  of  West- 
minster, 319 

Osmund,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  died 
1099,  author  of  the  liturgy  ad  ueum 
fiTorvm,  23 

Parrot,  Alexander  Neckam's  yerses 
on  it,  455 

Peter  of  Bloib,  died  after  1198, 
366,  his  life,  367—369,  his  literary 
character,  370,  his  Cantilena f  372, 
extracts  from  his  letters,  373— 
376.  Account  of  his  other  woriu, 
377—379 

Peter  db  Craon,  a  writer  of  songs, 
347 

Philip,  prior  of  St.  Frideswithe's, 
flourished  in  1180,  322 

Philip  db  Reiices,  an  Anglo-Nor- 
man poet,  344 


488 


INDEX. 


pRiLip  DB  Thaun,  «n  Anglo- Nor- 
man poet,  flourished  in  IISO,  86. 
His  /tore  des  crtaturei  and  ^tt- 
iiare,  87,  88 

Poets,  Latin,  Gay  bishop  of  Amiens, 
15,  Thomas  archbishop  of  York, 
24,  Godfrey  of  Winchester,  33, 
William  of  Chester,  66,  Reginald 
of  Canterbury,  77,  Hilarins,  91, 
Laurence  of  Durham,  160,  Henry 
of  Huntingdon,  167,  Richard  of 
Worcester,  180,  John  of  Salisbury, 
S40,  John  de  Haute^ille,  250, 
Walter  Mapes,  307,  Serlo,  312, 
Daniel  Church,  313,  Thomas  of 
Beyerley,  ib.  Gualo,  314,  Hugo 
Sottevagina,  ib.  Simon  du  Fresne, 
350,  NigeUus  Wireker,  351,  Gi- 
raldus  Cambrensis,  392,  Geoffrey 
deVinsauf,  398,  Joseph  of  Exeter, 
409,  Alexander  Neckam,  452, 
Maurice  the  Welshman  and  Man- 
rice  of  Forde,  467,  John  de  St. 
Omer,  467,  Adam  of  Dore,  488 

Poets,  Anglo-Norman,  Philip  de 
Thaun,  86,  Turold,  ISO,  Everard 
and  Helys  of  Winchester,  123, 
Samson  de  Nanteuil,  129,  Guiscard 
de  Beaulieu,  131,  Gaimar  and 
David,  151,  Waoe,  205,  Jordan 
Fantosme,  221»  Benoit  de  Sainte- 
Maur,  358,  King  Richard  I.,  324, 
Guemes  du  Pont  de  St.  Maxence, 
338,  Bozun,  331,  Herman,  332, 
Hugh  de  Rutland  338,  Thomas, 
340,  Philip  de  Reimes,  344,  Mau- 
rice  and  Peter  de  Craon,  347,  Re- 
naud  de  Hoilande,  348,  Simon  du 
Fresne,  349,  William  the  Clerk, 
436,  Thomas  de  Bailleul,  434, 
William,  454 

Poets,  English,  Orm,  436,  Nicholas 
de  Guildford,  438,  Layamon,  439 


Radulph,  archbishop    of   Canter- 
bury, died  1122, 105 
Radulph  dk  Dicbto,  flourished  in 

1200,  413 
Radulph  db  Dunstable,  a  monk 

of  St.  Alban*s,  flourished  in  1170, 

312,  his  metrical  life  of  St.  Alban, 

314 
Radulph   Niobk,    a   partisan   of 

fiecket,  428 
Radulf,    monk    of   Westminster^ 

320 
Ranulph  db  Gl  am  v  ills  ,  died  1 190» 

275,  his  treatise  on  English  law, 

377—279 
Reginald  of  Canterbury,  flourished 

in  1112,  77,  his  Latin  poems,  7S, 

79 
Rsoinald  of  Duiiiam,  flourished  in 

1165, 196 
Rbmaud  db  Hoilandb,  a  writer  of 

songs,  348 
RlCBMAROHU8»bi8hopof  StDsTid's, 

died  1096,  45 
RiCHA&D  I.  king  of  England,  died 

1199,  his  poems,  334—327 
RiCHABD  the  Canon,  flourished  in 

1300,  415 
Richard  of  Dbvizbb,  flourished  in 

1191,360 
Richard  of  Elt,  a  chronicler,  381 
Richard,  monk  of  Fountains,  316 
Richard  of  Hexham,  the  historian, 

flourished  in  1143,  184 
Richard,  bishop  of  London,  died 

in  1198, 287 
Richard,  abbot   of  the  order  of 

Pr^montr^,  471 
Richard  of  Worcester,    n    Latin 

poet,  180 
Robert  de  Beaufey,  469 
Robert  db  Borron,  a  writer    of 

French  prose  romances,  310 


INDEX. 


489 


Robert  of  Bridlington,  268 
RoBBKT  of  Cricklade,  prior   of  St. 
Frideswide's  in  1159.  186 

Robert  Foliot,  bishop  of  Here- 
ford, 274 

RoBERTi  bishop  of  Hereford,  died 
1095,  called  Robertas  Losinga, 
18,  his  friendship  for  bishop  Wul- 
Stan,  19,  his  repatation  as  a  man 
of  science,  20 

Robert  of  Glastonbury,  made  abbot 
in  1171,  321 

Robert  de  MELUN,bishop  of  Here- 
ford, died  in  1167,  «00,  the  foun- 
der of  a  sect  in  the  university  of 
Paris,  201 ,  extract  from  his  Sum^ 
ma,  202 

Robert  le  Foule,  flourished  in 
1150,  18S 

Robert  de  Retines,  an  astrono- 
mical writer  who  studied  among 
the  Arabs,  and  flourished  in  1143» 
116,  his  translation  of  the  Koran 
and  other  works,  117 — 119 

Robert  of  Salop,  flourished  in 
1140,  179 

Roger  of  Croyland,  366 

Roger  of  Forde,  322 

Roger  of  Hereford,  an  English 
mathematician,  flourished  in  1170, 
818 

Roger  de  Hoyeden,  died  after 
1201,  410 

Roger  Infans,  a  writer  on  the 
CompotuBt  flourished  1124,  89 

Roger  of  Salisbury,  flourished  in 
1160,  227 

Roncevaux,  the  romance  of,  120 — 
123 

SiSWULF,  an  Anglo-Saxon  trayeller 
to  the  Holy  Land  in  1102,  37,  his 
description  of  a  Storm,  40 

VOL.  II. 


Salisbury,  John  of,  see  John 
Samson,  abbot  of  Bury,  471 
Samson  of  Canterbury,  320 
Samson  de  Nanteuil,  an  Anglo- 
Norman  poet,  who  translated  the 
proverbs  of  Solomon,  129 
Schools,  of  Lanfranc  at  Avranches, 
2,  and  at  Bee,  4,  of  Athelard,  94, 
95,    William  de  Conches,  com- 
plaint of  the  degenerated  state  of 
the  schools,    174,  tbe  school  of 
Robert  de  Melnn  at  Paris,  201, 
John  of  Salisbury's  account  of  his 
studies  in  the  schools  of  Paris, 
231,  John  de  Hauteville's  account 
of  the  Parisian  scholars,  253, 254, 
Nigellus  Wireker's  account  of  the 
English    scholars    at  Paris,  356 
Fitz- Stephen's    account    of    the 
school  at  London,  364,  school  at 
Dunstable,  449,  school  of  William 
du  Mont  at  Lincobi,  463 
Scientific  writers,  Gerland,  16,  Ro- 
bert   bishop    of    Hereford,    18, 
Gerard  archbishop  of  York,  44, 
Philip  de  Tbaun,  86,  Roger  Infans, 
89,  Athelard  of  Bath,  94,  Robert 
de  Retines,  116,  William  de  Con- 
ches,  173,  Roger  of  Hereford,  218, 
Alfred,  220,  Daniel  de  Merlai,  227 
Sbbxo,  several  writers  of  this  name, 

312 
Simeon  of  Durham,  an  historical 

writer,  died  soon  after  1129, 101 
Simon   du  Fresne,  the  friend  of 

Giraldus  Cambrensis,  349 
Stephen  Harding,  the  founder  of 
the  Cistercian  order,  died  1134,85 
Stephen  de  Langton,  archbishop 
of  Canterbary,died  1228,  442,  his 
disputes  with  king  John  and  with 
the  pope,  443,  444,  his  literary 

2  K 


490 


INDEX. 


workif  444  ■  446.  his  BermoD  on 
BeU  Jliz,  446 

Stephen  of  Whitby,  died  1 1 12, 1 10 

SvLOARDi  a  monk  of  Westminster 
abbey,  of  which  he  wrote  a  his- 
tory, 45 

TistutRoffleniUf  compiled  by  bishop 
Emnlph,  80 

Thavn,  Philip  de,  see  Philip 

Thomas,  author  of  the  metrical  ro- 
msnces  of  Horn  and  Tristan,  340 

Thomas  de  Baillbul,  an  Anglo- 
Norman  poet,  434 

Thomas  of  Bayenz,  archbishop  of 
York,  died  1114,  109 

Thomas  Becket»  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  died  1170,  203,  his 
epistles,  204,  writers  of  his  life : 
Genrase  of  Chiche8ter,S17,  John  of 
Salisbury,  248,  Herebert  of  Bos- 
ham,  269,  Guemes  du  Pont  de  St. 
Maxence,  328,  William  Fits.Ste- 
phen,  362,  Alan  of  Tewkesbury, 
365,  Roger  of  Croyland,  366 

Thomas  of  Beverley,  flourished  in 
1170,  313 

Thomas  of  Ely,  a  chronicler,  280 

Thomas  of  Ercildoune,  343 

Thomas  of  Monmouth,  monk  of 
Norwich,  318 

Thomas,  archbishop  of  York,  died 
1100,  a  natiye  of  Bayeux,  re-built 
York  cathedral,  24,  his  poetical 
writings,  25 

Th  VEST  AN,  archbishop  of  York,  died 
1140,  109 

Toledo,  description  of  a  remarkable 
fountain  there,  2!^9 

TiTRGOT,  prior  of  Durham,  died  1115, 
71,  his  history  of  Durham,  72 

TuaoLD,  author  of  the  Anglo-Nor- 
man  metrical  romance  of  Ronce- 
Taux,  120 


I  Wage,  the  Anglo-Norman  poet  and 
chronicler,  died  after  1171,  905, 
his  Roman  de  Brut,  207,  the  Jlo- 
man  de  Rou,  208,  his  other  works, 
210 

Walter,  monk  of  St.  Alban's,  flou- 
rished in  1180,  322 

Walter  de  Co  ut anceb  ,  archbishop 
of  Rouen,  died  in  1207,  416,  cha- 
racter of  him  given  by  John  de 
Hauteville,  251 

Walter,  Daniel,  monk  of  Rie- 
vaux,  320 

Walter  theGrammarian,  died  1 177, 
315 

Walter  Mapes,  lived  under  Henry 
II.  295,  account  of  his  treatise  De 
Nuffie  Cwialium,  298—303,  his 
Romances  in  Anglo-Norman,  303 
— 305,  his  hostility  to  the  monks, 
305,  306,  Latin  poems  attributed 
to  him,  307 — 310,  his  epigram  in 
answer  to  Giraldus  Cambrensis, 
393 

Warnier,  or  Garnier,  monk  of 
Westminster,  48 

Welsh,  anecdotes  of  the,  302 

William,  a  trouvere  of  the  twelfth 
century,  464 

William  of  St  Alban's,  flourished 
in  1170,  213 

William  of  Chester,  a  Latin  poet, 
flourished  m  1110,  67 

William  the  Clerk,  flourished  in 
1185,316 

William  the  Clerk,  an  Anglo-Nor- 
man poet  in  the  reign  of  John,  426. 
his  Bestiary,  436—430,  LeBetant 
deDieu,  430 — 432,  the  romance  of 
Frejus,  432 

William  de  Conches,  a  scientific 
writer,  died  after  1154,  173 


IND£X« 


491 


William  bishop  of  Durham,  died 
1096,  a  native  of  Bayenz,  21 

William  Fitz-Stsphbn,  the  bio- 
grapher of  Becket,  362 

William  of  Malmesburt,  the 
historian,  flourished  in  1140,  134, 
his  works,  135 — 142,  his  reflec* 
tions  on  the  battle  of  Hastings, 
138,  139 

William  du  Mont,  died  1213, 
chancellor  of  Lincoln,  463 


William  of  Newbury,  bom  1136 
died  IS08,  407 

William    of   Peterborough^  flou- 
rished in  1168,  203 

William    the  Pilgrim  {Gulielmus 
Peregrinw)  419 

William  of  Ramsay,  lived  in  the 
reign  of  John,  424 

William  of  Rievaux,  died  1 146, 180 

William    d'b  Wycumb,  prior  of 
Lanthony,  317 


FINIS. 


London :  J.  B.  Nichols  and  Son,  S5,  Parliament  Street. 


New  Works  and  New  Editions 

printed  for 

John  W.  Parker, 

West  Strand. 


■» 


LONDON:  MARCH,  M.DCCC.XLVL 


A  Charge, 

Delivered  at  his  Annual  Visitation  in  1845. 

By  John  George,  Lord  Archbishop  of  Armagh. 

Octavo,  29, 


Biographia  Britannica  Liter  aria : 

A  Literary  History  of  the    United  Kingdom. 

Published  under  the  Superintendence-  of  the  Royal  Society  op  Literature. 

Vol.  I.    THE  ANGLO-SAXON  PERIOD. 
Vol.  II.    THE  ANGLO-NORMAN  PERIOD. 
To  be  continued.    Octavo.     12;.  each. 


The  Anglo-Saxon  Church; 

Its  History,  BeveniteSy  and  General  Charax^ter. 
By  the  Rev.  Henry  Soames,  M.A., 

Author  of  Elizabethan  Bdiffwm  History. 
The  Third  Edition,  with  Additions  and  Corrections.     10«.  Qd. 


The  Literature  of  the  Church  of  England, 

exhibited  in  Specimens  of  the  Writings  of  Eminent  Divines,  with  Memoirs 
of  their  Lives,  and  Historical  Sketches  of  the  Times 

in  which  they  lived. 

By  the  Rev.  Richard  Cattermole,  B.D. 

Two  Volumes,  Octavo.    25«. 


*  The  Publisher's  Catalogue  of  Educational  Books,  for  the  use  of  Schools  and  Families,  including 
the  Works  published  under  the  Sanction  of  the  Committee  of  Coundl  on  Education,  and  those  issued 
by  the  Committee  of  General  Literature  and  Education,  appointed  by  the  Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge,  may  be  had,  gratis,  on  application. 


New  Books  and  New  Editions, 


Preparing  for  the  Press,  in  a  Series  of  uniform  Volumes,  each  being  complete 

in  itself,  so  far  as  relates  to  the  subject  or  subjects  it  may  contain. 

New  Editions,  thoroughly  revised  and  corrected,  of 

The 

History  and  Philosophy  of  the  Inductive 

Sciences. 

By  the  Rev.  William  Whewell,  D.D.,  F.R.S.,  etc.. 

Master  of  Trinity  College,  and  Professor  of  Moral  Philosophy, 

in  the  University  of  Oamhridge. 

Division  I.     History  of  Astronomy,  Ancient  and  Modem,  including 

Mechanics. 

Division  II.      History  of  the  Younger  Sciences. 

Division  III.     Philosophy.     Part  I.  Of  Ideas. 

Division  IV.      Philosophy.     Part  II.  Of  Knowledge. 

By  the  same  Author. 

Indications  of  the  Creator. 

Theological  Extracts  from  the  Hittary  and  the  PhUotophy  of  the  InduOwe 

Seieneet.    With  a  Preface. 
Second  Edition»  with  an  additional  Pie&ce.    S«.  6d* 

Of  a  Liberal  Education  in  general, 

and  with  particular  reference  to  the  leading  Studies 
of  the  University  of  Camhridge. 

Octavo.    9$, 

On  the  Principles  of  English  University 

Education. 

Second  Edition.    5s. 

Elements  of  Morality,  including  Polity. 

Two  YolumeSy  Octavo,  24». 

Architectural  Notes  on  German  Churches; 

With  Notes  of  a  Tour  in  Normandy  and  Picardy. 
Third  Edition,  with  Additions.     12«. 


1 


published  by  John  W.  Parker.  3 

Religio  Quotidiana: 

Daily  Prayer  the  Law  of  Ood's  Churchj  arid  heretofore 

the  Practice  of  Churchmen. 

By  the  Right  Rev.  Richard  Mant,  D.D., 

Lord  Bishop  of  Down  and  Connor,  and  Dromore. 
Foolscap  Octavo.     In  the  Press. 


Lectures  on  the  Prophecies, 

Proving  the  Divine  Origin  of  Christianity  ; 

Delivered  in  the  Chapel  of  The  Honourable  Society  of  Lincoln's  Inn, 
in  the  Years  1837,  1838,  1839  and  1840,  on  the  Foundation 

of  Uie  late  Bishop  Warbiirton. 

By  the  Rev.  Alexander  M'Caul,  D.D.,  T.C.D., 

Prebendary  of  St.  Paul's,  and  One  of  the  Theological  Professors  in 

King's  College,  London. 


Lectures  on  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews; 

Delivered  in  the  Chapel  of  Lincoln's  Inn, 

By  Rev.  F.  D.  Maurice,  M.A., 

One  of  the  Theological  Professors  in  King's  College,  London,  and 

Chaplain  to  Guy's  Hospital. 

With  a  Preface,  in  reference  to  Mr.  Newman's  Work  on  the  Development 

of  Christian  Doctrine. 

Octavo.     In  the  Press. 


Modern  Hagiology: 


An  Examination  of  the  Nature  and  Tendency  of  some  Legendary  and 

Devotional  Works  lately  published  under  the  Sanction  of  the 

Bev.  J.  H.  Newman,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Pusey,  and 

the  Rev.  F.  Oakeley. 

By  the  Rev.  J.  C.  Crosthwaite,  M.A., 

Rector  of  St.  Mary-at-Hill  and  St.  Andrew  Hubbard,  London. 

Two  Volumes,  foolscap  Octavo.     9*. 


New  Books  and  New  Editions, 


Lusitanian  Sketches  of  the  Pen  and  Pencil ; 

By  William  H.  G.  Kingston,  Esq., 

Author  of  The  Circassian  Chief,  The  Prime  Aiinirtery  8ce. 
Two  Volumes,  Post  Octavo.     18f. 


Travels  and  Researches  among  the 

Christian  Tribes 

In  Asia  Minor,  Meaopota/mia,  CJuddea,  and  Armenia; 
By  W.  F.  Ainsworth,  F.G.S.,  F.R.G.S., 

In  charge  of  the  Expedition  sent  by  the  Royal  Geographical  Society,  and 
the  Society  for  Promoting  Christian  Knowledge. 

Two  Volumes,  with  Maps  and  numerous  Illustrations.    2is. 


The  Holy  City ; 

Historical  and  Topographical  Notices  of  Jerusalem  ; 

With  some  Account  of  its  Antiquities  and  of  its  present  Condition. 

Bj  the  Rev.  George  Williams,  M.A., 

Fellow  of  King's  College,  Cambridge;  and  sometime  Chaplain  to  the 

late  Bishop  Alexander,  at  Jerusalem. 

With  Illustrations  from  Sketches  by  the  Rev.  W.  F.  WITTS,  B.  A., 

Fellow  of  King's  College,  Cambridge. 

Octavo.    18«.     Preparing  for  Publication,  by  the  same  Author, 

The  Holy  Land ; 

Travels  in  Palestine^  from  Dan  to  Beershdni ; 

With  a  Special  View  to  the  Elucidation  of  its  Ancient  Oeography. 


The  Psalms  in  Hebrew, 

With  a  Critical  and  Philological  Corwmefntary ; 

Intended  for  the  use  of  Students. 

By  the  Rev.   George  Phillips,  B.D. 

Author  of  The  Elements  of  Syriac  Grammar^  and  Fellow  and  Tutor  of 

Queens'  CoUege,  Cambridge. 

This  Work,  which  has  been  a  considerable  time  in  preparation,  is  now  in    tKe 
Press,  and  will  be  ready  for  Publication  in  the  course  of  a  few  months. 


published  by  John  'W.  Parker.  i 

Bishop  Jeremy   Taylor; 

His  Predecessors,    Contemporaries,   and  Stwcessors. 
By  the  Rev.  Robert  Aris  Willmott,  M.A. 

Author  of  ZtMff  ^  Sacred  Poets. 
A  small  Yolume.    Nearly  Beady. 


Bishop  Heber  and  His  Works ; 

With  some  Account  of  Christian  Missions  in  Iridia. 
By  the  Rev.  J.  Chambers,  M.A., 

Worcester  College,  Oxford. 
A  small  Volume.    Nearly  Beady. 


Notes  on  the  Miracles  of  Our  Lord. 

Octavo.     12ff. 
II. 

Notes  on  the  Parables. 

Second  Edition.    Octavo.     12t. 

IIL 

Exposition  of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 

Drawn  from  the  Writings  of  St.  Augustine,  with  Obeenrations. 

Foolscap  Octavo.        dt.  M. 

rv. 
The  Fitness  of  Holy  Scripture  for  unfolding 

the  Spiritual  Life  of  Men; 

Being  the  Hnlsean  Lectures  for  1846.  Octavo.    5#. 

By  the  Rev.  Richard  Chenevix  Trench,  M.A., 

Vicar  of  Itchen  Stoke, 

One  of  the  Theological  Professors  in  Kings  College,  London,  and  Examining 

Chaplain  to  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Oxford. 


New  Books  and  New  Editions, 


^^•^^•s^^^    ^*^^/^**^. 


The  Mission  of  the   Comforter, 
and   other    Sermons. 

With  Note». 

By    Julius    Charles    Hare,     M.A., 

Aichdeacon  of  Lewes. 
Two  Volumes,  Octavo.    In  April. 


Life  of  Archbishop  Sancroft. 

By  the  late  George  D'Oyly,  D.D.,  F.R.S., 

Rector  of  Lambeth. 
The  New  Edition,  revised.     Octavo.  9». 


The  Churchman's  Theological  Dictionary. 

By  the  Rev.  Robert  Eden,  M.A.,  F.S.A. ; 

late  Fellow  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Oxford. 

The  design  of  this  Work  is  to  give  plain  and  simple  explanations  of  the  Theo- 
logical and  Ecclesiastical  Terms  which  are  used  in  describing  and  discussing 
religious  Ordinances,  Doctrines,  and  Institutions,  without  entering  into  the 
controversies  which  have  arisen  respecting  their  object  and  import. 

Second  Edition,  Medium  12mo.    5«. 


History   of  the    Church   of  England, 

By  the  Right  Rev.  T.  Vowler  Short,  D.D., 

Bishop  of  Sodor  and  Man, 
The  Fourth  Edition,  Revised.     I69. 


History  of  the  Church  of  Ireland. 

By  the  Right  Rev.  Richard  Mant,  D.D., 

Lord  Bishop  of  Down  and  Connor,  and  Dromore. 
Two  large  Voliunes,  to  be  had  together  or  separately,  I7*.  each. 


T 


published  by  John  W.  Parker»  ' 

College  Lectures  on  Christian  Antiquities^ 

and  the  Ritual  of  the  English  Church. 

II. 
College  Lectures  on  Ecclesiastical  History. 

Each  with  complete  Sets  of  Cambridge,  Dublin,  and  Durham 

Uniyersity  Examination  Papers. 

By  the  Rev.  W.  Bates,  M.  A., 

Fellow,  Lecturer,  and  Hebrew  Lecturer  of  Christ's  College^  Cambridge. 

Post  Octavo,  9#.  each. 


A  Manual  of  Christian  Antiquities; 

An  Account  of  the  Constitution,  Ministers,  Worship,  Discipline,  and 

Customs  of  the  Early  Church:  with  a  Complete  Analysis 

of  the  Works  of  the  Antenicene  Fathers. 

By  the  Rev.  J.  E.  Riddle,  M.A. 

The  Second  Edition,  Octavo.     18f . 


Ordo  Sseclorum ; 

A  Treatise  on  the  Chronology  of  the  Holy  Scriptures. 
By  the  Rev.  Henry  Browne,  M.A., 

Principal  of  the  Diocesan  College,  Chichester. 
In  a  large  Volume,  Octavo.     20«. 


JAMES'S  TREATISE 

On  the  Corruptions  of  Scripture,   Councils, 

and  Fathers, 

by  tJie  Prelates,  Pastors,  and  Pillars  of  the  Church  of 
Rome,  for  the  maintenance  of  Popery. 

Revised  and  Corrected  from  the  Editions  of  1612  and  1688, 

By  the  Rev.  J.  E.  Cox,  M.A. 

Octavo,  12f. 


$  New  Books  and  New  Editions, 

Travels  in  the  Track  of  the  Ten 
Thousand  Greeks; 

A  Geographical  and  Deacriptive  Account  of  the  Expedition  of  Cyras  and  of 
the  Betreat  of  the  Ten  Thouaand,  as  related  by  Xenophon. 

By  W.   F.   Ainsworth,   F.G.S., 

Surgeon  to  the  Euphrates  Expedition. 
Post  Octavo.     7<*  60^- 


The  History  of  England  in  Church  and  State, 

From  the  Oonquest  to  the  Accession  of  the  House  of  Plaatagenet, 
commonly  called  the  Saxon  Line  restored. 

Book  I.  Policy  and  Ethics  of  Western  Christendom.      Book   I.  Normandy 

and  England,  from  Bollo  to  Hardacanute.        Book  III.  The  Confessor 

and  the  Conqueror.        Book  lY.  The  Sons  of  the  Conqueror. 

Book  y.     Blois  and  Plantagenet. 

By  Sir  Francis  Palgrave,  K,H. 

Two  Yolumesy  Octavo.    In  the  Pr0$$» 


The  Student's  Manual  of  Ancient  History ; 

Containing  the  Political  History,  Geographical  Position,  and  Social  State 

of  the  Principal  Nations  of  Antiquity. 
Fourth  Edition,  lOs.  ed. 

II. 

The  Student's  Manual  of  Modem  History; 

The  Rise  and  Progress  of  the  Principal  European  Nations,  their  Political 

History,  and  the  Changes  in  their  Social  Condition;  with  a 

History  of  the  Colonies  founded  by  Europeans. 

By  W.  C.  Taylor,  LL.D. 

Third  Edition,  lOr.  6d. 


published  by  John  W.  Parker.  9 

pecimens  of  Ecclesiastical  Architecture  in 

Great  Britain, 

Fxom  the  Conquest  to  the  Reformation, 

Edited  by  Henry  Bowman,  Architect. 

Illustrated  by  Views,  Plans,  Elevations,  Sections,  and  Details. 
Royal  Quarto,  2L  &. ;  or,  in  Twelve  Parts,  at  3i.  6d.  each. 


Horae  EcclesiasticaB ; 

The  Position  of  the  Church  with  regard  to  Romish 

Error. 

II. 

Horse  Liturgicae; 

I.  Liturgical  Discrepancy.     H.  Liturgical  Harmony. 
By  the  Right  Rev.  Richard  Mant,  D.D., 

Lord  Bishop  of  Down  and  Connor,  and  Dromore. 
Printed  uniformly,  Foolscap  Octavo,  3#.  6d,  each. 


The  Statutes  relating  to  the  Ecclesiastical 
&  Eleemosynary  Institutions 

of  England,  Wales,  Ireland,  India,  and  the  Colonies ; 
with  the  Decisions  thereon. 

By  Archibald  J.  Stephens,   M.A.,   F.R.S. 

Barrister  at  Law. 

Two  Volumes,  Royal  Octavo.    3/.  3«.  boards,  or  3/.  JSf.  M.  in  law  calf. 

The  object  of  this  publication  is  to  supply  the  Clerical  and  Legal  Professions 
with  a  complete  collection  of  the  Statut^  relating  to  Ecclesiastical  and  Eleemo- 
synary Institutions,  in  a  form  convenient  for  reference,  and  rendered  the  more 
useful  for  that  purpose  by  notes  of  the  decisions  upon  the  various  enactments. 


10  New  Books  and  New  Editions, 

The  Civil  History  of  the  Jews. 

By  the  Rev.  O.  Cockayne, 

King's  College,  London. 
The  Second  Edition.    4«.  6d. 


History  of  the  Christian  Church. 

From  the  Ascension  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Conversion  of  Constsntine. 

By  the  late  Professor  Burton, 

The  Sixth  Edition.     6s,  6d. 


The  Choral  Service  of  the  Church ; 

Being  an  Enquiry  into  the  Liturgical  System  of  the  Cathedral  and  Collegiate 

Foundations  of  the  Anglican  Communion. 

By  the  Rev.  John  Jebb,  M.A., 

Rector  of  Peterstow. 
Octavo.     I6f. 


The  Elements  of  Syriac  Grammar. 

By  the  Rev.  George  Phillips,  B.D., 

Fellow  and  Tutor,  Qneens'  Coll.,  Camh. 
Second  Edition,  with  Amendments  and  Additions.     Octavo.     lOlr. 


The  Book  of  Solomon,  called  Ecclesiastes 

— the  Hebrew  Text  and  a  Latin  Version — with  Notes,  Philological  and 
Exegetical,  and  a  literal  Translation  from  the  Babbinic  of  the 
Commentary  and  Preface  of  R.  Mobbs  Mendlessohn. 

By  the  Rev.  Theodore  Preston,  M.A., 

Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 
Octavo.     15«. 


published  by  John  W.  Parker.  1 1 

The  Gospel-Narrative, 

according  to  the  Authorized  Text  of  the  EvangelistB,  without  Repetition  or 

Omission.    With  a  Continuous  Elzposition,  Marginal  Proofs  in  full»  and 

Notes,  briefly  collected  from  the  best  Critics  and  Commentators. 

Dedicated^  by  Special  Permission,  to  Her  Majesty  the  Queen. 

Second  Edition,  Super  Royal  Octavo.     16«.,  boards. 

II. 

The  Churchman^s  Guide; 

A  Copious  Index  of  Sermons  and  other  Works,  by  eminent  Church  of 
England  Divines;  arranged  according  to  their  subjects. 

Octavo.     7*- 

By  the  Rev.  John  Forster,  M.A., 

Her  Majesty's  Chaplain  of  the  Savoy. 


Two  Series  of  Discourses, 

I.  On  Christian  Humiliation.     II.  On  the  Oity  of  Ood. 
By  the  Right  Rev.  C.  H.  Terrot,  D.D., 

Bishop  of  Edinburgh;  late  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 

These  Discourses  have  been  sent  to  the  press  principally  for  a  congregational 
purpose.  Should  the  publication  have  a  wider  range,  and  Ml  under  the  notice 
of  any  who  have  heard  the  Episcopal  Church  of  Scotland  misrepresented  as 
uncharitable  in  her  sentiments,  and  semi-popish  in  her  belief,  the  Author  humbly 
hopes  that  upon  a  candid  perusal  of  the  following  pages  they  may  see  cause  at 
least  to  suspend  their  judgment,  and  to  consider  it  not  quite  impossible  that  the 
Episcopal  Church  in  Scouand  may  still  be  Protestant  in  reference  to  all  error, 
wnile  she  is  Catholic  in  reference  to  all  truth. 

Octavo,     ^s,  6d, 


Sacra  Domestica: 

A  Course  of  Family  Prayers. 

Among  the  Prayers  for  family  use  that  are  already  extant,  there  are  many  which, 
though  not  exceptionable  in  any  point  of  doctrine,  are  not  well  adapted  for 
the  use  of  the  younger,  and  the  less  educated  portions  of  some  fiimilies;  either 
from  the  language  not  being  sufliciently  simple,  or  from  tiie  too  great  number  and 
variety  of  topics  introduced  into  each  Prayer :  the  result  of  which  is,  that,  either 
the  whole  Prayer  becomes  too  tedious  in  length,  or  else  each  expression  is  too  con- 
cise, or  too  general,  to  suit  the  apprehension,  and  to  keep  up  the  attention,  of 
some  part  of  the  domestic  congregation. 

In  Octavo ;  Large  Type,  with  provision  for  Additions  in  Manuscript.     3*. 


12  New  Books  and  New  Editions, 

Characteristics  of  the  Greek  Philosophers 

Socrates  and  Plato. 
By  Rev.  John  Philips  Potter,  A.M., 

late  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford. 
Dedicated,  by  permission,  to  Thb  Lord  Bishop  of  Lincoln. 

Foolscap  Octavo.    49,  6d. 


Essays  on  some  Unsettled  Questions 
of  Political  Economy. 

By  John  Stuart  Mill, 

Author  of  A  /System  of  Logic. 
Octavo.    6«.  Qd, 

The  Elements  of  Algebra, 

Chiefly  intended  for  Schools  and  the  Junior  Classes  in  Colleges. 

By  the  Rev.  T.  G.  HaU,  M.A., 

Professor  of  Mathematics  in  King's  College,  London. 
The  Second  Edition,  enlarged.     6«.  6«?. 


Euclid's  Elements  of  Geometry ; 

With  Notes,  Geometrical  Exercises  from  the  Senate-House  and  College 
Examination  Papers,  and  a  Brief  History  of  Geometry. 

By  R.  Potts,  M.A. 

Trinity  College,  Cambridge.     Octavo,  lO». 


The  jEneid  of  Virgil,  with  the  Enghsh  Notes 

of  Professor  Anthon. 

Edited,  with  his  Sanction,  by  J.   R.  Major,  D.D., 

Head  Master  of  King's  College  School,  London. 
Foolscap  Octavo.    7«.  6rf.,  strongly  bound. 


published  by  Jobn  W.  Parker.  13 


1.^  f\  '\^\j^'K  N»\  %  •\^-r-'^^ 


Arundines  Cami 

Sive  Musarum  Cantabrigiensium  Lusus  Canori 

Colligit  atque  edidit 

Henricus  Drury,  A.M. 

Third  Edition,  in  the  Prm. 


The  Fables  of  Babrius, 

From  the  newly-discovered  Manuscript;  together  with  the  Fragments  of  the 

lost  Fables. 

Edited  by  George  Comewall  Lewis,  Esq.,  M.A., 

late  Student  of  Christ  Church. 
Post  Octavo.     Nearly  Beady, 


Uniformly,  in  Post  Octavo,  with  Illustrations,  12».  each  work. 

Charicles; 

Illustrations  of  the  Private  Life  of  the  Ancient  Greeks. 

II. 

Gallus ; 

Roman  Scenes  of  the  Time  of  Augustus. 

With  Notes  and  Excursus. 
Translated  from  the  German  of  Professor  W.  A.  BECKER; 

By  the  Rev.  F.  Metcalfe,  M.A., 

Fellow  of  Lincoln  College,  Oxford. 


The  Life  of  Herodotus,  drawn  out  from 

his  Book. 

Translated  from  the  German  of  Professor  DAHLMANN. 

By  G.  V.  Cox,  M.A., 

Esquire  Bedell  in  the  University  of  Oxford. 
Post  Octavo.    5«. 


14  New  Books  and  New  Editions^ 

I 

Theocritus. 

Codicum  ManuBcriptomm  Ope  Becensuit  et  Emendavit 

Christophorus  Wordsworth,  S.T.P., 

nuper  Schol®  Harroyiensis  Magister. 
Octavo,  138.  6d*^  boards. 


The  Speeches  of  Demosthenes 

against  Aphobus  and  Onetor. 
Translated  with  Notes  explanatory  of  the  Athenian  Laws  and  Institutions, 

By  Charles  Ran  Kennedy,  M.A., 

Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 
Post  Octavo.    98, 


Pindar's  Epinician  Odes, 

and  the  Fragments  of  his  Lost  Compositions j 

revised  and  explained ;  with  Copious  Notes  and  Indices. 

Octavo.     16«. 

11. 

The  New  Cratylus  ; 

Cmitrihutions  towards  a  more  Accurate  Knowledge 

of  the  OreeJc  Language. 

Octavo.     17*. 

By  the  Rev.  J.  W.  Donaldson,  B.D., 

Head  Master  of  the  Bury  School. 


The  Public  Economy  of  Athens, 

by  Professor  BCECKH,  of  Berlin. 

Translated  by  G.  Comewall  Lewis,  Esq.,  A.M., 

late  Student  of  Christ  Church. 
The  Second  Edition,  revised.    Octavo,  18«. 


published  by  John  W.  Parker.  15 

A   System   of  Logic; 

By  John  Stuart  Mill. 

Two  Volumes.    Octavo.     New  Edition,  t»  the  Preis. 


Creation  by  the  Agency  of  God,  as  opposed 
to  Creation  by  Natural  Law ; 

being  a  Refutation  of  the  Work  entitled  Vesti^et  of  the  Natural  HUiory  of 

Creation» 

By  Thomas  Monck  Mason,  B.A. 

Post  Octavo.  5s. 


A  Cycle  of  Celestial  Objects; 

By  Captain  W.  H.  Smyth,  R.N. ;  K.S.F.,  D.C.L.,  F.R.S 

President  of  the  Astronomical  Society. 
Two  Volumes,  Octavo;  with  numerous  Illustrations,  2L  28. 


Elements  of  Meteorology ; 

By  the  late  J.  F.  Daniell,  D.C.L.,  For.  Sec.  R.S. ; 

Professor  of  Chemistry  in  King's  College,  London. 
Two  Volumes,  Octavo,  with  Coloured  Charts  and  other  Plates.    32». 


Practical  Geodesy; 

comprising  Chiun  Surveying,  the  Use  of  Surveying  Instruments,  together  with 
Levelling,  and  Trigonometrical,  Mining  and  Maritime  Surveying. 

By  Butler  Williams,  C.E.,  F.G.S., 

late  Professor  of  Geodesy  in  the  College  of  Civil  Engineers. 

Octavo,  with  numerous  Illustrations.    12».  M. 

Second  Epition,  with  new  Chapters  on  Railway,  Parish,  and  Estate 

Purveying. 


16  New  Books  and  New  Editions, 

On  the  Nature  of  Thunderstorms, 

and  on  the  Means  of  Protecting  Churches  and  other  BoildingSy  and 
Shipping,  against  the  DestructiTe  EfiFects  of  Lightning. 

By  W.  Snow  Harris,  F.R.S. 

Octavo.    10».  6d. 


Lectures  on  Astronomy, 

deUveied  at  King's  College,  London. 

By  the  Rev.  H.  Moseley,  M.A.,  F.R.S. 

late  Ptofeasor  of  Astronomy  and  NatunJ  Philoaophjr  in  the  CoUeg^. 
The  Second  Edition,  reyised,  'with  numerous  Wood  Cuts.    5*.     6d. 


Practical  Geology  and  Mineralogy 
&  the  Chemistry  of  Metals. 

By  Joshua  Trimmer,  F.G.S. 

Octavo,  with  Two  Hundred  lUnstrations.    I2r. 


Lectures  on  the  Principles  and  Practice 

of  Physic. 

By  Thomas  Watson,  M.D., 

Fellow  of  the  Royal  College  of  Physicians;  late  Physician  to  the  Middlesex 
Hospital ;  and  formerly  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College,  Cambridge. 

New  Edition.    Two  Volumes,  Octavo,  34*. 


Physiological  Anatomy  and  Physiology 

of  Man. 

By  R.  B.  Todd,  M.D.,  F.R.S.,  &  W.  Bowman,  F.R.S., 

of  King's  College,  London. 

With  numerous  Original  Illustrations. 

The  First  Yolume,  Octavo,  15«.,  cloth ;  also  Parts  I.  and  II.  Jg,^  each. 

To  be  completed  in  Four  Parts,  forming  Two  Volumes. 


published  by  John  W.  Parker.  17 

An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of  Chemical 

Philosophy; 

By  the  late  John  Frederick  Daniell,  F.R.S., 

Professor  of  Chemistry  in  King's  College,  London. 
With  numerous  Blustrations.     Second  Edition,  much  Enlarged,  21  #. 


A  Manual  of  Chemistry. 

The  Fifth  Edition,  Rbyisbd  and  Conbidbrablt  Enlaroxd,  with 

numerous  Wood-Cuts,  35s. 

II. 

A  Dictionary  of  the  Materia  Medica 

and  Pharmacy. 

Octavo.    15«. 

By  William  Thomas  Brande,  F.R.S., 

Of  Her  Majesty's  Mint;  Professor  of  Chemistry  at  the  Royal  Institution. 


Practical  Chemistry  for  Farmers  and 

Landowners. 

By  Joshua  Trimmer,  F.G.S., 

Author  of  Practical  Oeobgy  and  Mxneralogy. 
Post  Octavo.     6*. 


The  Practical  Bee-keeper ; 

O,  Concise  and  Plain  Instructions  for  the 
Management  of  Bees  and  Hives. 

By  John  Milton. 

Fcap.  Octavo.   As,  6d. 


18  New  Books  and  New  Editions. 

OutKnes  of  the  History  of  France, 

for  Schools  and  Families. 
By  the  Rev.  O.  Cockayne, 

King's  College,  London. 
Uniformly  with  the  OtUlines  of  EnglUhy  Eomany  and  Grecian  HUlory. 


Amusements  in  Chess. 

I.  The  History,  Antiquities  and  Curiosities  of  the  Game.  H.  Easy  Lessons  in 
Chess^  illustiative  of  the  yarious  Openings^  analysed  and  explained. 
III.  Chess  PK>bIems,  or.  Ends  of  Grames  won  or  drawn  by  brilliant  and 
scientific  Moves. 

By  Charles  Tonilinson. 

With  numerous  Illustrations.     4#.  6d, 


The  Merchant  and  the  Friar; 

oTy  Truths  and  Fictions  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

By  Sir  Francis  Palgrave. 


New  Edition.     3#. 


A  Sketch  of  the  MiKtary  History  of 

Great  Britain. 

By  the  Rev.  G.  R.  Gleig,  M.A., 

Chaplain-General  to  the  Forces,  and  Chaplain  of  Chelsea  Hospital. 

Foolscap  Octavo.    Ss.  6d> 


The  Life  and  Services  of  General  Lord 

Harris,  G.C.B. 

By  the  Right  Hon.  S.  R,  Lushington, 

Private  Secretary  to  Lord  Harris,  and  late  Governor  of  Madras. 
A  new  Edition,  revised.  Foolscap  Octavo.  6».  6d. 


1 


Works  Edited  by  John  Hullah, 

Professor  of  Yocal  Music  in  King's  College, 

London. 

Vocal  Scores; 

Sacred  and  Secular  Music^  for  four  or  more  Voices. 

In  Monthly  Numbers,  contftining  16  Folio  pages,  1«.  each. 

IL 

Exercises  for  the  Cultivation  of  the  Voice; 

Two  separate  Volumes: 
I.  For  Soprano  and  Tenor  Voices.       II.  For  Contralto  and  Bass  Voices. 

Imperial  Octavo,  4».  6J.  each. 
III. 

The  Whole  Book  of  Psalms, 

With  the  Canticles  and  Hymns  of  the  Church,  for  the  Morning  and  Evening 

Service, 

Set  to  appropriate  Chants  for  four  Voices, 

Every  Syllable  being  placed  under  its  proper  Note. 
Imperial  Octavo,  15«.,  bound  in  cloth. 

IV. 

The  Psalter ; 

Or,  Psalms  of  Davids  in  Metre,  set  to  appropriate 

Tunes, 

Arranged  for  Four  Voices. 

Together  with  Indices,  and  Tables  showing  the  Psalms  applicable 

to  the  Morning  and  Evening  Services  of  the  SundayB, 

and  other  Iloly-Days,  throughout  the  Year, 

according  to  the  Form  and  Order  of 

the  "Sook  of  Common  Prayer. 

The  various  Editions  comprise  the  axrangements  in  Score^  with  and  without  Oi*^n 
or  Piano-forte  Accompaniments,  and  the  different  Voice  Parts^  each  In  separate 
volumes.  They  may  be  had  in  fine  Editions,  in  plain  or  elegant  bindings,  or  chei^ 
Editions,  ornamentally  or  strongly  bound,  as  may  be  required.    For  particulars  and 

prices,  see  the  Publisher's  Catalogues. 


Now  Publishing,  printed  in  Octavo,  in  a  large  Type, 
Monthly  Parta  at  1*.,  and  Half  Yearly  Volumes  7*.,  bound  in  Cloth, 

Practical    Sermons 

By  Dignitaries  and  other  Clergymen  of  the  United 
Church  of  England  and  Ireland. 

Printed  verhaHmfrani  the  Atahari'  MSS, 


Edited  by  the  Kev.  J.  C.  Crosthwaite,  M,A., 

Rector  of  St.  Mary-at-Hill,  and  St.  Andrew  Hubbard,  London, 

Sermons  already  pvhlished : — 


Alford,  Rer.  H.,  Vicar  of  Wymaswold. 
Alford,  Rer.  H.,  MMterof  BidefordSohooL 
Allen,  Rev.  8.  J.,  Vicsr  of  BMingwdld. 
AdMW.  Rer.  J.,  ILA.,  late  Fellow  of  Queen's  Col- 
lege, Oxford. 

Bangor,  the  Right  Rer.  the  Lord  Bishop  of. 
Bangor,  the  Veiy  Rer.  the  Dean  of. 
Bailey,  Rev.  H.,  Fellow  of  St.  John's  Coll.  Camb. 
Barnes,  Rev.  Q.,  Vioarof  Berwiok-upon-Tweed. 
Barrett,  Rev.  I>r.,  Rector  of  AtUeborgh. 
Bellett,  Rev.  Q.,  Incumbent  of  St  Leonard's, 

Bridgenorth. 
Berry,  Rev.  W.  W.,  Vioarof  Stanwell. 
Best,  Hon.  and  Rev.  S.,  Rector  of  Abbott's  Anne. 
Btmney,  Ven.  H.  K.,  Archdeacon  of  Lincoln. 
Brogden,  Rev.  J., Curate  of  St.  Michael's,  St.  Albans. 
Brookfleld,  Rev.  W.  H.,  Preacher- A wisUint  at  St. 

James's,  Piccadilly. 

Challis,  Rev.  J. ,  Professor  of  Astronomy,  Camb. 
Cherry,  Rev.  H.  C,  Rector  of  Burghfleld. 
Churton,  Ven.  E.,  Archdeacon  of  Cleveland. 
Clay,  Rev.W.  K.,  Per.  Curate  of  HolyTrinity,  Ely. 
Coleridge,  Rev.  Dr.,  Prebendary  of  Exeter. 
CoUina,  Rev.  W.  L.,  Rector  of  Cheriton. 
Collins,  Rev.  T.,  B.D.,  Perpetual  Curate  of  Fan- 

ham,  Knaresborough. 
CoRie,  Rev.  O.  E.,  Professor  of  Divinity,  Camb* 
Cotton,  Rev.  Dr.,  Archdeaooa  of  CaaheL 

Donnison,  Rev.  W.  J.  B.,  Harleston. 

Down  and  Connor  and  Dromore,  the  Right  Rev. 

the  Lord  Bishop  of. 
Dalcqme,  Rev.  J.  O.,  Reotor  of  South  Hykeham. 

Edinburgh,  the  Right  Rev.  the  Bishop  of. 
Exeter,  the  Very  Rev.  the  Dean  of. 
Edge,  Rev.  W.  J.,  Reotor  of  Waldringfleld. 
Blrington,  Rev.  Dr.,  Professor  of  Divinity,  Dublin. 

Fojster,  Rev.  J.,  Her  Majesty's  Chaplain  of  the 

Savoy. 
Frere,  Rev.  J.,  Reotor  of  Cottenham. 
Fulford,  Rev.  F.,  Rector  of  Croydon. 

Gee,  Rev.  R.,  Vicar  of  Abbot's  Langley. 
Gilly,  Rev.  Dr.,  Canon  of  Durham. 
Gorle,  Rev.  J.,  Rector  of  Whatcote. 
Oradey,  Rev.  W.,  Prebendary  of  Lichfield. 

Hall,  Rev.  T.  O.,  Prebendary  of  St.  Paul's. 
Hare,  Ven.  J.  C,  Archdeacon  of  Lewes. 
Hartehome,  Rev.  C.  H.,  Curate  of  Cogenhoe 
Hawels,  Rev.  J.  O.  W.,  Queen's  College,  Oxford. 
Hildyard,  Rev.  J.,  Fellow  of  Christ's CoU.  Camb. 


Hodgson,  Rev.  J.,  M.A..    Vicar  of  Bumpatcad 

Hdion,  Essex. 
Hussey,  Rev.  Dr.,  Rector  of  Hayes. 

Jebb,  Rev.  J.,  Rector  of  Peterstow. 

Jelf,  Rev. Dr.,  Principal  of  King's  CoUege,  London, 

Jenkins,  Rev.  R-  C,  Incumbent  of  Christ  Church. 

Turnham  Green. 
Jones,  Rev.  J.,  Rector  of  St.  George's,  St.  Asaph. 

KnoUis,  Rev.  F.  M.,  Junior  Dean  of  Magdalene 

CoUege,  Oxford. 
Linooln,  the  Right  Rev.  the  Lord  Bishop  of. 
Lichfield,  the  Hon.  and  Very  Rev.  the  Dean  of: 
Lookwood,  Rev.  E.  J.,  Cnrateof  St.  Mary's,  Bedliard. 

M'Caul,  Rev.  Dr.,  Prebendary  of  St.  Paul's. 
Mackensie,  Rev.  H.,  Per.  Curate  of  Gt.  Yarmouth. 
Maltland,  Rev.  S.  R.,  Librarian  to  His  Grace  the 

Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
Maurice,  Rev.  F.  D. ,  Chaplain  of  Guy  Is  Hospital. 
Mayo,  Rev.  R.,  Perpetual  Curate  of  PlaxtoL 
Mountain,  Rev.  Dr.,  Prebendary  of  Lincoln. 

Norwich,  the  Hon.  and  Very  Rev.  the  Dean  of. 

Parkinson,  Rev.  R.,  Canon  ot  Manchester. 
Peile,  Rev.  Dr.,  Head  Master  of  Repton  School. 
Pellew,  Hon.  and  Rev.    E.,    Incumbent  of  St. 

James's,  Buiy  St.  Edmund's. 
Prevost,  Rev.  Sir  G.,  Per.  Curate  of  Stinchcombe. 

Quebec,  the  Right  Rev.  the  late  Lord  Bishop  of. 

St  David's,  the  Right  Rev.  the  Lord  Bishop  ot 
Sodor  and  Man,  the  Right  Rev.  the  Lord  Bidiop  of. 
Scott,  Rev.  W.,  Per.  Curateof  Christ  Ch.,Hozton. 
Sharpe,  Rev.  L.,  Prebendary  of  St  Paul's. 
Shepherd,  Rev.  J.,  Rector  of  Luddeedowne. 
Slade,  Rev.  J.,  Vicar  of  Bolton. 
Smith,  Rev.  0.  J.,  Examining  Ch^Iain  to  the 

Lord  Bishop  of  Jamaica. 
Stephenson,  Rev.  J.  H.,  Rector  of  Corringham. 
Sworde,  Rev.  T.,  Rector  of  St.  Peter's,  Thetford. 

Thornton,  Rev.  W.  J.,  Prebendary  of  Hereford. 
Timins,  Rev.  J.  W.,  Vicar  of  West  Mailing. 
Todd,  Rev.  Dr.,  Fellow  of  Trin.  Coll.  Dublin. 
Townaend,  Rev.  G.,  Canon  of  Durhun. 
Trench,  Rev.  R.  C,  Examining  Chaplain  to  the 

Lord  Bishop  of  Oxford. 
Vickers,  Ven.  W. ,  Archdeacon  of  Salop. 

Wickham,  Rev.  R.,  Christ  Church,  Oxford. 
Wilberforce,   Ven.  R.  I.,    Archdeacon  of    East 

Riding  of  Yorkshire 
Worgan,  Rev.  J.  H.,  Curate  of  Calthorpe. 


John  W.  Parker,  Publisher,   West  Straiid,    London. 


/ 


y 


^^/9^ 


3  2044  019  316  793 


