i^^^iljg^llllllllp 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 

(  SANGRE  Y  ARENA  ) 


VICENTE  BLASCO  IBANEZ 


^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2010 


http://www.archive.org/details/bloodsandnovelOOblas 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


BY 


VICENTE  BLASCO  IBANEZ 

TRANSLATED   FROM   THE   SPANISH 
BY 

Mrs.  W.  a.  GILLESPIE 


GROSSET  &  DUNLAP 
Publishers  New  York 

By  arrangement  with  E.  P.  Duttoa  &  Co.,  Inc. 


Qipyright,  19  ig,  1922, 
By  E.  P.  BUTTON  &  COMPANY 


A  a  Rights  Reserved 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


BLASCO  IBANEZ  AND  "SANGRE  Y  ARENA" 

One  of  the  secrets  of  the  immense  power  exercised  by 
the  novels  of  Vicente  Blasco  Ibaiiez  is  that  they  are 
literary  projections  of  his  dynamic  personality.  Not 
only  the  style,  but  the  book,  is  here  the  man.  This  is 
especially  true  of  those  of  his  works  in  which  the  thesis 
element  predominates,  and  in  which  the  famous  author 
of  The  Four  Horsemen  of  the  Apocalypse  appears  as  a 
novelist  of  ideas-in-action.  It  is,  of  course,  possible  to 
divide  his  works  into  the  "manners"  or  "periods"  so  dear 
to  the  literary  cataloguers,  and  it  may  thus  be  indicated 
that  there  are  such  fairly  distinct  genres  as  the  regional 
novel,  the  sociological  tale  and  the  psychological  study; 
a  convenient  classification  of  this  sort  would  place  among 
the  regional  novels  such  masterpieces  as  La  Barraca  and 
Canas  y  Barro, — among  the  novels  of  purpose  such 
powerful  writings  as  La  Catedral,  La  Bodega  and  Sangre 
y  Arena, — among  the  psychological  studies  the  introspec- 
tive La  Maja  Desnuda.  The  war  novels,  including  The 
Four  Horsemen  and  the  epic  Mare  Nostrum,  would  seem 
to  form  another  group.  Such  non-literary  diversions  as 
grouping  and  regrouping,  however,  had  perhaps  best  be 
left  to  those  who  relish  the  task.  It  is  for  the  present 
more  important  to  note  that  the  passionate  flame  of  a 
deeply  human  purpose  welds  the  man's  literary  labors 
into  a  larger  unity.  His  pen,  as  his  person,  has  been 
given  over  to  humanity.  He  is  as  fearless  in  his  de- 
nunciation of  evil  as  he  is  powerful  in  his  description 
of  it;  he  has  lived  his  ideas  as  well  as  fashioned  them 
into  enduring  documents;  he  reveals  not  only  a  new 
Spain,  but  a  new  world. 

While  Blasco  Ibafiez  does  not  desire  to  be  known  as 
regional  novelist — nor  does  a  complete  view  of  his 
numerous  works  justify  such  a  narrow  description — he 


vi  INTRODUCTION 

has  nevertheless  in  his  earlier  books  made  such  effective 
and  artistic  use  of  regional  backgrounds  that  some  critics 
have  found  this  part  of  his  production  best.  Speaking 
from  the  standpoint  of  durable  literary  art,  I  am  inclined 
to  such  a  view.  Yet  is  there  less  humanitarian  impulse  in 
The  Four  Horsemen  than  in  these  earlier  masterpieces? 
Whether  Blasco  Ibanez's  background  is  a  corner  in 
Valencia,  a  spot  on  the  island  of  Majorca,  a  battlefield 
in  France,  or  Our  Sea  the  Mediterranean, — the  cradle  of 
civilization, — his  real  stage  is  the  human  heart  and  his 
real  actor,  man. 

Upon  his  election  to  the  Cortes, — Spain's  national 
parliamentary  assembly, — Blasco  Ibafiez  naturally  turned, 
in  his  novels,  to  a  consideration  of  poHtical  and  social 
themes.  Beginning  with  La  Catedral  (The  Shadow  of 
the  Cathedral),  one  of  the  most  powerful  modem  docu- 
ments of  its  kind,  he  took  up  in  successive  novels  the 
treatment  of  such  vital  subjects  as  the  relation  of  Church 
to  State,  the  degrading  and  backward  influence  of 
drunkenness,  the  problem  of  the  Jesuits,  the  brutality 
and  psychology  of  the  bull-fight.  In  all  of  these  works 
the  writer  is  characterized  by  fearlessness,  passion  and 
even  vehemence ,  yet  his  ardor  is  not  so  strong  as  to  lead 
him  into  conscious  unfairness.  A  fiery  advocate  of  the 
lowly,  he  yet  can  cast  their  shortcomings  into  their 
teeth;  they,  in  their  ignorance,  are  accomplices  in  their 
own  degradation,  partners  in  the  crimes  that  oppress 
them.  They  slay  the  leaders  whom  they  misunderstand; 
they  are  slow  to  organize  for  the  purpose  of  bursting 
their  shackles.  This  appears  in  La  Barraca  (one  of  the 
so-called  regional  novels)  no  less  than  in  La  Catedral, 
La  Bodega  and  other  books  of  the  more  purely  sociolog- 
ical series.  In  varying  degree,  applied  to  a  nation  rather 
than  to  a  class,  this  fearless  attitude  is  evident  in  Los 
Cuatros  Jinetes  del  Apocalipsis  and  Mare  Nostrum,  in 
which  is  assailed  the  neutrality  of  Spain  during  the  late 
and  unlamented  conflict.  This  unflinching  determination 
to  see  the  truth  and  state  it  is  also  discernible  in  a  most 
personal  manner;  the  sad  inability  of  such  noble  spirits 


INTRODUCTION  vii 

as  Gabriel  Luna  {La  Catedral)  or  Fernando  Salvatierra 
{La  Bodega)  to  solace  themselves  with  a  belief  in  future 
life  is  perhaps  an  exteriorization  of  the  author's  own 
views,  even  as  these  revolutionary  spirits  are,  in  part, 
embodiments  of  himself. 

In  the  bulk  of  the  noted  Spaniard's  books  there  is 
waged,  on  both  a  large  scale  and  a  small,  the  ceaseless, 
implacable  struggle  of  the  new  against  the  old.  This 
eternal  battle  early  formed  an  appreciable  part  of  even 
the  writer's  short  fiction.  His  old  seamen  look  with 
scorn  upon  the  steam-vessels  that  replace  their  beloved 
barks;  his  vintners  regret  the  passing  of  the  good  old 
days  when  sherry  sold  high  and  had  not  yet  been  ousted 
from  the  market  by  cheap,  new-fangled  concoctions; 
his  toilers  begin  to  rebel  against  ecclesiastical  authority; 
some  of  his  heroes  are  even  capable  of  falling  in  love 
with  Jewesses  or  with  women  below  their  station  {Luna 
Benamor,  Los  Muertos  Mandan)  ;  everywhere  is  the 
fermentation  of  transition.  His  protagonists, — red- 
blooded,  vigorous,  determined, — usually  fail  at  the  end, 
but  if  there  are  victories  that  spell  failure,  so  are  there 
failures  that  spell  victory.  It  is  the  clash  of  these  ancient 
and  modem  forces  that  strikes  the  spark  which  ignites 
the  author's  passion.  He  is  with  the  new  and  of  it,  yet 
rises  above  blind  partisanship.  His  dominant  figures, 
chiefly  men,  are  representative  of  the  Spain  of  to-mor- 
row; not  that  manana  which  has  so  long  (and  often 
unjustly)  been  a  standing  reproach  to  Iberian  procrasti- 
nation, but  a  to-morrow  of  rebirth,  of  rededication  to 
lofty  ideals  and  glowing  realities. 

In  Sangre  y  Arena  {Blood  and  Sajid,  written  in  1908) 
Blasco  Ibafiez  attacks  the  Spanish  national  sport.  With 
characteristic  thoroughness,  approaching  his  subject 
from  the  psychological,  the  historical,  the  national,  the 
humane,  the  dramatic  and  narrative  standpoint,  he 
evolves  another  of  his  notable  documents,  worthy  of  a 
place  among  the  great  tracts  of  literary  history. 

His  process,  like  his  plot,  is  simple ;  whether  attacking 
the  Church  or  the  evils  of  drink,  or  the  bloodlust  of  the 


viii  INTRODUCTION 

bull  ring,  his  methods  are  usually  the  same.  He  provides 
a  protagonist  who  shall  serve  as  the  vehicle  or  symbol  of 
his  ideas,  surrounding  him  with  minor  personages  in- 
tended to  serve  as  a  foil  or  as  a  prop.  He  fills  in  the 
background  with  all  the  wealth  of  descriptive  and  color- 
ing powers  at  his  command — and  these  powers  are  as 
highly  developed  in  Ibafiez,  I  believe,  as  in  any  living 
writer.  The  beauty  of  Blasco  Ibafiez's  descriptions — 
a  beauty  by  no  means  confined  to  the  pictures  he  summons 
to  the  mind — is  that,  at  their  best,  they  rise  to  interpreta- 
tion. He  not  only  brings  before  the  eye  a  vivid  image,  but 
communicates  to  the  spirit  an  intellectual  reaction.  Here 
he  is  the  master  who  penetrates  beyond  the  exterior  into 
the  inner  significance;  the  reader  is  carried  into  the 
swirl  of  the  action  itself,  for  the  magic  of  the  author's 
pen  imparts  a  sense  of  palpitant  actuality ;  you  are  your- 
self a  soldier  at  the  Marne,  you  fairly  drown  with  Ulises 
in  his  beloved  Mediterranean,  you  defend  the  besieged 
city  of  Saguntum,  you  pant  with  the  swordsman  in  the 
bloody  arena.  This  gift  of  imparting  actuality  to  his 
scenes  is  but  another  evidence  of  the  Spaniard's  dynamic 
personality;  he  lives  his  actions  so  thoroughly  that  we 
live  them  with  him;  his  gift  of  second  sight  gives  us  to 
see  beyond  amphitheatres  of  blood  and  sand  into  national 
character,  beyond  a  village  struggle  into  che  vexed  prob- 
lem of  land,  labor  and  property.  Against  this  type  of 
background  develops  the  characteristic  Ibafiez  plot,  by  no 
means  lacking  intimate  interest,  yet  beginning  somewhat 
slowly  and  gathering  the  irresistible  momentum  of  a 
powerful  body. 

Juan  Gallardo,  the  hero  of  Blood  and  Sand,  has  from 
earliest  childhood  exhibited  a  natural  aptitude  for  the 
bull  ring.  He  is  aided  in  his  career  by  interested  parties, 
and  soon  jumps  to  the  forefront  of  his  idolized  profes- 
sion, without  having  to  thread  his  way  arduously  up  the 
steep  ascent  of  the  bull  fighters'  hierarchy.  Fame  and 
fortune  come  to  him,  and  he  is  able  to  gratify  the  desires 
of  his  early  days,  as  if  the  mirage  of  hunger  and  desire 
had  suddenly  been  converted  into  dazzling  reality.     He 


INTRODUCTION  ix 

lavishes  largess  upon  his  mother  and  his  childless  wife, 
and  there  comes,  too,  a  love  out  of  wedlock. 

But  neither  his  powers  nor  his  fame  can  last  forever. 
The  life  of  even  Juan  Gallardo  is  taken  into  his  hands 
every  time  he  steps  into  the  ring  to  face  the  wild  bulls; 
at  first  comes  a  minor  accident,  then  a  loss  of  prestige, 
and  at  last  the  fatal  day  upon  which  he  is  carried  out  of 
the  arena,  dead.  He  dies  a  victim  of  his  own  glory,  a 
sacrifice  upon  the  altar  of  national  blood-lust.  That 
Dofia  Sol  who  lures  him  from  his  wife  and  home  is,  in 
her  capricious,  fascinating,  baffling  way,  almost  a  symbol 
of  the  fickle  bull-fight  audience,  now  hymning  the  praises 
of  a  favorite,  now  sneering  him  off  the  scene  of  his 
former  triumphs. 

The  tale  is  more  than  a  colorful,  absorbing  story  of 
love  and  struggle.  It  is  a  stinging  indictment  brought 
against  the  author's  countrymen,  thrown  in  their  faces 
with  dauntless  acrimony.  He  shows  us  the  glory  of  the 
arena, — the  movement,  the  color,  the  mastery  of  the 
skilled  performers, — and  he  reveals,  too,  the  sickening 
other  side.  In  successive  pictures  he  mirrors  the  thou- 
sands that  flock  to  the  bull  fights,  reaching  a  tremendous 
climax  in  the  closing  words  of  the  tale.  The  popular 
hero  has  just  been  gored  to  death,  but  the  crowd,  know- 
ing that  the  spectacle  is  less  than  half  over,  sets  up  yells 
for  the  continuance  of  the  performance.  In  the  bellow- 
ing of  the  mob  Blasco  Ibanez  divines  the  howl  of  the 
real  and  only  animals.  Not  the  sacrificial  bulls,  but  the 
howling,  bloodthirsty  assembly  is  the  genuine  beast ! 

The  volume  is  rich  in  significant  detail,  both  as  regards 
the  master's  peculiar  powers  and  his  views  as  expressed 
in  other  words.  Once  again  we  meet  the  author's  de- 
termination to  be  just  to  all  concerned.  Through  Dr. 
Ruiz,  for  example,  a  medical  enthusiast  over  tauromachy, 
we  receive  what  amounts  to  a  lecture  upon  the  evolution 
of  the  brutal  sport.  He  looks  upon  bull-fighting  as  the 
historical  substitute  for  the  Inquisition,  which  was  in 
itself  a  great  national  festival.  He  is  ready  to  admit, 
too,  that  the  bull  fight  is  a  barbarous  institution,  but  calls 


X  INTRODUCTION 

to  your  attention  that  it  is  by  no  means  the  only  one  in 
the  world.  In  the  turning  of  the  people  to  violent, 
savage  forms  of  amusement  he  beholds  a  universal  ail- 
ment. And  when  Dr.  Ruiz  expresses  his  disgust  at  seeing 
foreigners  turn  eyes  of  contempt  upon  Spain  because  of 
the  bull-fight,  he  no  doubt  speaks  for  Blasco  Ibafiez. 
The  enthusiastic  physician  points  out  that  horse-racing  is 
more  cruel  than  bull-fighting,  and  kills  many  more  men; 
that  the  spectacle  of  fox-hunting  with  trained  dogs  is 
hardly  a  sight  for  civilized  onlookers ;  that  there  is  more 
than  one  modern  game  out  of  which  the  participants 
emerge  with  broken  legs,  fractured  skulls,  flattened  noses 
and  what  not;  and  how  about  the  duel,  often  fought 
with  only  an  unhealthy  desire  for  publicity  as  the  genuine 
cause  ? 

Thus,  through  the  Doctor,  the  Spaniard  states  the 
other  side  of  the  case,  saying,  in  effect,  to  the  foreign 
reader,  "Yes,  I  am  upbraiding  my  countrymen  for  the 
national  vice  that  they  are  pleased  to  call  a  sport.  That 
is  my  right  as  a  Spaniard  who  loves  his  country  and  as 
a  human  being  who  loves  his  race.  But  do  not  forget 
that  you  have  institutions  little  less  barbarous,  and  before 
you  grow  too  excited  in  your  desire  to  remove  the  mote 
from  our  eye,  see  to  it  that  you  remove  your  own,  for 
it  is  there." 

Juan  Gallardo  is  not  one  of  the  impossible  heroes  that 
crowd  the  pages  of  fiction ;  to  me  he  is  a  more  successful 
portrait  than,  for  example,  Gabriel  Luna  of  The  Shadow 
of  the  Cathedral.  There  is  a  certain  rigidity  in  Luna's 
make-up,  due  perhaps  to  his  unbending  certainty  in 
matters  of  belief, — or  to  be  exact,  matters  of  unbelief. 
This  is  felt  even  in  his  moments  of  love,  although  that 
may  be  accounted  for  by  the  vicissitudes  of  his  wander- 
ing existence  and  the  illness  with  which  it  has  left  him. 
Gallardo  is  somehow  more  human ;  he  is  not  a  matinee 
hero ;  he  knows  what  it  is  to  quake  with  fear  before  he 
enters  the  ring;  he  comes  to  a  realization  of  what  his 
position  has  cost  him ;  he  impresses  us  not  only  as  a 
powerful  type,  but  as  a  flesh  and  blood  creature.    And 


INTRODUCTION  xi 

his  end,  like  that  of  so  many  of  the  author's  protagonists, 
comes  about  much  in  the  nature  of  a  retribution.  He  dies 
at  the  hands  of  the  thing  he  loves,  on  the  stage  of  his 
triumphs.  And  while  I  am  on  the  subject  of  the  hero's 
death,  let  me  suggest  that  Blasco  Ibanez's  numerous 
death  scenes  often  attain  a  rare  height  of  artistry  and 
poetry, — for,  strange  as  it  may  seem  to  some,  there  is  a 
poet  hidden  in  the  noted  Spaniard,  a  poet  of  vast  con- 
ception, of  deep  communion  with  the  interplay  of  Nature 
and  her  creatures,  of  vision  that  becomes  symbolic. 
Recall  the  death  of  the  Centaur  Madariaga  in  The  Four 
Horsemen  of  the  Apocalypse,  dashing  upon  his  beloved 
steed,  like  a  Mazeppa  of  the  South  American  plains, 
straight  into  eternity ;  read  the  remarkable  passages  por- 
traying the  deaths  of  Triton  and  Ulises  in  Mare  Nos- 
trum; consider  the  deeply  underlying  connotation  of 
Gabriel  Luna's  fate.  These  are  not  mere  dyings;  they 
are  apotheoses. 

Doiia  Sol  belongs  to  the  author's  siren  types;  she  is 
an  early  sister  of  Freya,  the  German  spy  who  leads  to 
the  undoing  of  Ulises  in  Mare  Nostrum.  She  is  one  of 
the  many  proofs  that  Blasco  Ibafiez,  in  his  portrayals  of 
the  worldly  woman,  seizes  upon  typical  rather  than  in- 
dividual traits;  she  puzzles  the  reader  quite  as  much  as 
she  confuses  her  passionate  lover.  And  she  is  no  more 
loyal  to  him  than  is  the  worshipping  crowd  that  at  last, 
in  her  presence,  dethrones  its  former  idol. 

Among  the  secondary  characters,  as  interesting  as  any, 
is  the  friend  of  Juan  who  is  nicknamed  Nacional,  be- 
cause of  his  radical  political  notions.  Nacional  does  not 
drink  wine;  to  him  wine  was  responsible  for  the  failure 
of  the  laboring-class,  a  point  of  view  which  the  author 
had  already  enunciated  three  years  earlier  in  La  Bodega; 
similar  to  the  role  played  by  drink  is  that  of  illiteracy, 
and  here,  too,  Nacional  feels  the  terrible  burdens  imposed 
upon  the  common  people  by  lack  of  education.  Indica- 
tive of  the  author's  sympathies  is  also  his  strange  bandit 
Plumitas,  a  sort  of  Robin  Hood  who  robs  from  the  rich 
and  succors  the  poor.    The  humorous  figure  of  the  bull- 


xii  INTRODUCTION 

fighter's  brother-in-law  suggests  the  horde  of  sycophants 
that  always  manage  to  attach  themselves  to  a  noted — and 
generous — public  personage. 

The  dominant  impression  that  the  book  leaves  upon 
me  is  one  of  power, — crushing,  implacable  power.  The 
author's  paragraphs  and  chapters  often  seem  hewn  out 
of  rock  and  solidly  massed  one  upon  the  other  in  the 
rearing  of  an  impregnable  structure.  And  just  as  these 
chapters  are  massed  into  a  temple  of  passionate  protest, 
so  the  entire  works  of  Blasco  Ibafiez  attain  an  archi- 
tectural unity  in  which  not  the  least  of  the  elements  are 
a  flaming  nobihty  of  purpose  and  a  powerful  directness 
of  aim. 

Once  upon  a  time,  and  it  was  not  so  very  long  ago,  it 
was  the  fashion  in  certain  quarters  to  regard  Blasco 
Ibafiez  as  impossible  and  Utopian.  The  trend  of  world 
events  has  greatly  modified  the  meanings  of  some  of  our 
words  and  has  given  us  a  deeper  insight  into  hitherto 
neglected  aspects  of  foreign  and  domestic  life.  Things 
have  been  happening  lately  in  Spain  (as  well  as  else- 
where, indeed!)  that  reveal  our  author  in  somewhat  the 
light  of  a  prophet.  Or  is  it  merely  that  he  is  closer  to 
the  heart  of  his  nation  and  describes  what  he  sees  rather 
than  draws  a  veil  of  words  before  unpleasant  situations  ? 
Ultimately  these  situations  must  be  met.  The  Spain  of 
to-morrow  will  be  found  to  have  moved  more  in  the  di- 
rection of  Blasco  Ibafiez  than  in  that  of  his  detractors. 

The  renowned  novelist  is  but  fifty-two,  energetic,  pro- 
lific, voluminous;  besides  more  than  a  score  of  novels 
thus  far  to  his  credit  he  has  written  several  books  of 
travel,  a  history  of  the  world  war,  has  travelled  in  both 
hemispheres  and  made  countless  volumes  of  translations. 
He  has  now  a  larger  audience  than  has  been  vouchsafed 
any  of  his  fellow  novelists,  and  his  future  works  will  be 
watched  for  by  readers  the  world  over.  That  is  a  rare 
privilege  and  imposes  a  rare  obligation.  Blasco  Ibafiez 
has  it  in  him  to  meet  both. 

ISAAC  GOLDBERG. 
Roxbury,  Mass. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


CHAPTER  I 

Juan  Gallardo  breakfasted  early  as  was  his  custom 
on  the  days  of  a  bull-fight.  A  little  roast  meat  was  his 
only  dish.  Wine  he  did  not  touch,  and  the  bottle  re- 
mained unopened  before  him.  He  had  to  keep  himself 
steady.  He  drank  two  cups  of  strong  black  coffee  and 
then,  lighting  an  enormous  cigar,  sat  with  his  elbows 
resting  on  the  table  and  his  chin  on  his  hands,  watching 
with  drowsy  eyes  the  customers  who,  little  by  little, 
began  to  fill  the  dining-room. 

For  many  years  past,  ever  since  he  had  been  given  "la 
altemativa"  ^  in  the  Bull-ring  of  Madrid,  he  had  always 
lodged  at  that  same  hotel  in  the  Calle  de  Alcala,  where 
the  proprietors  treated  him  as  one  of  the  family,  and 
waiters,  porters,  kitchen  scullions,  and  old  chamber- 
maids all  adored  him  as  the  glor}'  of  the  establishment. 

There  also  had  he  stayed  many  days,  swathed  in  band- 
ages, in  a  dense  atmosphere  of  iodoform  and  cigar 
smoke,  as  the  result  of  two  bad  gorings — but  these  evil 
memories  had  not  made  much  impression.  With  his 
Southern  superstition  and  continual  exposure  to  danger 
he  had  come  to  believe  that  this  hotel  was  a  "Buena 
Sombra,"  ^  and  that  whilst  staying  there  no  harm  would 
happen  to  him.     The  risks  of  his  profession  he  had  to 

'  Vide  Glossary-. 

•  "Good  shadow" — lucky. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


CHAPTER  I 

Juan  Gallardo  breaklasted  early  as  was  his  custom 
on  the  days  of  a  bull-fight.  A  little  roast  meat  was  his 
only  dish.  Wine  he  did  not  touch,  and  the  bottle  re- 
mained unopened  before  him.  He  had  to  keep  himself 
steady.  He  drank  two  cups  of  strong  black  coffee  and 
then,  lighting  an  enormous  cigar,  sat  with  his  elbows 
resting  on  the  table  and  his  chin  on  his  hands,  watching 
with  drowsy  eyes  the  customers  who,  little  by  little, 
began  to  fill  the  dining-room. 

For  many  years  past,  ever  since  he  had  been  given  "la 
altemativa"  ^  in  the  Bull-ring  of  Madrid,  he  had  always 
lodged  at  that  same  hotel  in  the  Calle  de  Alcala,  where 
the  proprietors  treated  him  as  one  of  the  family,  and 
waiters,  porters,  kitchen  scullions,  and  old  chamber- 
maids all  adored  him  as  the  glory  of  the  establishment. 

There  also  had  he  stayed  many  days,  swathed  in  band- 
ages, in  a  dense  atmosphere  of  iodoform  and  cigar 
smoke,  as  the  result  of  two  bad  gorings — but  these  evil 
memories  had  not  made  much  impression.  With  his 
Southern  superstition  and  continual  exposure  to  danger 
he  had  come  to  believe  that  this  hotel  was  a  "Buena 
Sombra,"  ^  and  that  whilst  staying  there  no  harm  would 
happen  to  him.     The  risks  of  his  profession  he  had  to 

'  Vide  Glossary. 

"  "Good  shadow" — lucky. 


4  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

take,  a  tear  in  his  clothes  perhaps,  or  even  a  gash  in  his 
flesh,  but  nothing  to  make  him  fall  for  ever,  as  so 
many  of  his  comrades  had  fallen.  The  recollection  of 
these  tragedies  disturbed  his  happiest  hours. 

On  these  days,  after  his  early  breakfast,  he  enjoyed 
sitting  in  the  dining-room  watching  the  movements  of 
the  travellers,  foreigners  or  people  from  distant  prov- 
inces, who  passed  him  by  with  uninterested  faces  and 
without  a  glance,  but  who  turned  with  curiosity  on 
hearing  from  the  servants  that  the  handsome  young  fel' 
low  with  clean-shaven  face  and  black  eyes,  dressed  like 
a  gentleman,  was  Juan  Gallardo,  the  famous  matador,^ 
called  familiarly  by  ever>'body  *'E1  Gallardo." 

In  this  atmosphere  of  curiosity  he  whiled  away  the 
wearisome  wait  until  it  was  time  to  go  to  the  Plaza. 
How  long  the  time  seemed!  Those  hours  of  uncer- 
tainty, in  which  vague  fears  rose  from  the  depths  of  his 
soul,  making  him  doubtful  of  himself,  were  the  most 
pafnful  in  his  profession.  He  did  not  care  to  go  out 
into  the  street — he  thought  of  the  fatigues  of  the  Corrida 
and  the  necessity  of  keeping  himself  fresh  and  agile. 
Nor  could  he  amuse  himself  with  the  pleasures  of  the 
table,  on  account  of  the  necessity  of  eating  little  and 
early,  so  as  to  arrive  in  the  Plaza  free  from  the  heavi- 
ness of  digestion. 

He  remained  at  the  head  of  the  table,  his  face  resting 
on  his  hands,  and  a  cloud  of  perfumed  smoke  before  his 
eyes  which  he  turned  from  time  to  time  with  a  self- 
satisfied  air  in  the  direction  of  some  ladies  who  were 
watching  the  famous  torero  ^  with  marked  interest. 

His  vanity  as  an  idol  of  the  populace  made  him  read 
praises  and  flatteries  in  those  glances.  They  evidently 
thought  him  spruce  and  elegant,  and  he,  forgetting  his 
anxieties,  with  the  instinct  of  a  man  accustomed  to  adopt 

*  Vide  Glossary. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  5 

a  protid  bearing  before  the  public,  drew  himself  up, 
dusted  the  ashes  of  his  cigar  from  his  coat  sleeves  with 
a  flick,  and  adjusted  the  ring  which,  set  with  an  enor- 
mous brilliant,  covered  the  whole  joint  of  one  finger,  and 
from  which  flashed  a  perfect  rainbow  of  colours  as  if 
its  depths,  clear  as  a  drop  of  water,  were  burning  with 
magic  fires. 

His  eyes  travelled  complaisantly  over  his  own  person, 
admiring  his  well-cut  suit,  the  cap  which  he  usually  wore 
about  the  hotel  now  thrown  on  a  chair  close  by,  the 
fine  gold  chain  which  crossed  the  upper  part  of  his 
waistcoat  from  pocket  to  pocket,  the  pearl  in  his  cravat, 
which  seemed  to  light  up  the  swarthy  colour  of  his  face 
with  its  milky  light,  and  his  Russia  leather  shoes,  which 
showed  between  the  instep  and  the  tumed-up  trouser 
openwork  embroidered  silk  socks,  like  the  stockings  of 
a  cocotte. 

An  atmosphere  of  English  scents,  sweet  and  vague,  but 
used  in  profusion,  emanated  from  his  clothes,  and  from 
the  black,  glossy  waves  of  hair  which  he  wore  curled  on 
his  temples,  and  he  assumed  a  swaggering  air  before 
this  feminine  curiosity.  For  a  torero  he  was  not  bad. 
He  felt  satisfied  with  his  appearance.  Where  would  yoti 
find  a  man  more  distinguished  or  more  attractive  to 
women  ? 

But  suddenly  his  preoccupation  reappeared,  the  fire  of 
his  eyes  was  quenched,  his  chin  again  sank  on  his  hand, 
and  he  puffed  hard  at  his  cigar. 

His  gaze  lost  itself  in  a  cloud  of  smoke.  He  thought 
with  impatience  of  the  twilight  hours,  longing  for  them 
to  come  as  soon  as  possible, — of  his  return  from  the  bull- 
fight, hot  and  tired,  but  with  the  relief  of  danger  over- 
come, his  appetites  awakened,  a  wild  desire  for  pleasure, 
and  the  certainty  of  a  few  days  of  safety  and  rest  If 
God  still  protected  him  as  He  had  done  so  many  times 


6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

before,  he  would  dine  with  the  appetite  of  his  formet 
days  of  want,  he  would  drink  his  fill  too,  and  would 
then  go  in  search  of  a  girl  who  was  singing  in  a  music- 
hall,  whom  he  had  seen  during  one  of  his  journeys, 
without,  however,  having  been  able  to  follow  up  the  ac- 
quaintance. In  this  life  of  perpetual  movement,  rush- 
ing from  one  end  of  the  Peninsula  to  the  other,  he  never 
had  time  for  anything. 

Sevqral  enthusiastic  friends  who,  before  going  to 
breakfast  in  their  own  houses,  wished  to  see  the 
"diestro,'*  ^  had  by  this  time  entered  the  dining-room. 
They  were  old  amateurs  of  the  bull-ring,  anxious  to 
form  a  small  coterie  and  to  have  an  idol.  They  had 
made  the  young  Gallardo  "their  own  matador,"  giving 
him  sage  advice,  and  recalling  at  every  turn  their  old 
adoration  for  "Lagartijo"  or  "Frascuelo."  *  They  spoke 
to  the  "espada"  as  "tu,"  with  patronising  familiaritj'- 
and  he,  when  he  answered  them,  placed  the  respectful 
"don"  before  their  names,  with  that  traditional  separa- 
tion of  classes  which  exists  between  even  a  torero  risen 
from  a  social  substratum  and  his  admirers. 

These  people  joined  to  their  enthusiasm  their  mem- 
ories of  past  times,  in  order  to  impress  the  young  diestro 
with  the  superiority  of  their  years  and  experience.  They 
spoke  of  the  "old  Plaza"  of  Madrid,  where  only  "true** 
toreros  and  "true"  bulls  were  known,  and  drawing 
nearer  to  the  present  times,  they  trembled  with  excite- 
ment as  they  remembered  the  "Negro."  ^  That  "Negro** 
was  Frascuelo, 

If  you  could  only  have  seen  him!  .  .  .  But  probably 

•  Vide  Glossary. 

"Two  Matadors.    "Little  Lizard"  and  "Flask." 
'Frascuelo  dressed  in  black  in  the  bull-ring  on  account  of  hb 
political  opinions. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  y 

you  and  those  of  your  day  were  still  at  the  breast  or 
were  not  yet  bom. 

Other  enthusiasts  kept  coming  into  the  dining-room, 
men  of  wretched  appearance  and  hungry  faces,  obscure 
reporters  of  papers  only  known  to  the  bull-fighters,  whom 
they  honoured  with  their  praise  or  censure :  people  of 
problematic  profession  who  appeared  as  soon  as  the 
news  of  Gallardo's  arrival  got  about,  besieging  him  with 
flatteries  and  requests  for  tickets.  The  general  enthu- 
siasm permitted  them  to  mix  with  the  other  gentlemen, 
rich  merchants  and  public  functionaries,  who  discussed 
bull-fighting  aflfairs  with  them  hotly  without  being 
troubled  by  their  beggarly  appearance. 

All  of  them,  on  seeing  the  espada,^  embraced  him  or 
clasped  his  hand,  to  a  running  accompaniment  of  ques- 
tions and  exclamations: 

"Juanillo!  .  .  .  How  is  Carmen?" 

"Quite  well,  thank  you." 

"And  your  mother?  the  Senora  Angustias?" 

"Famous,  thanks.     She  is  at  La  Rincona." 

**And  your  sister  and  the  little  nephews?" 

"In  good  health,  thanks." 

"And   that   ridiculous    fellow,   your  brother-in-law?" 

"Well,  also.    As  great  a  talker  as  ever." 

"And,  a  little  family?    Is  there  no  hope?" 

"No — not  that  much ."    And  he  bit  his  nails  in 

expressive  negation. 

He  then  turned  his  enquiries  on  the  stranger,  of  whose 
life,  beyond  his  love  for  bull-fighting,  he  was  completely 
ignorant. 

"And  your  own  family?  Are  they  also  quite  well? — 
Come  along,  I  am  glad  to  meet  you.  Sit  down  and  have 
something." 

Next  he  enquired  about  the  looks  of  the  bulls  with 

*  Vide  Glossary. 


8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

which  he  was  going  to  fight  in  a  few  hours'  time,  because 
all  these  friends  had  just  come  from  the  Plaza,  after 
seeing  the  separation  and  boxing  of  the  animals,  and 
with  professional  curiosity  he  asked  for  news  from  the 
Cafe  Ingles,^  where  many  of  the  amateurs  foregathered. 

It  was  the  first  "Corrida"  ^  of  the  Spring  season,  and 
Gallardo's  enthusiastic  admirers  had  great  hopes  of  him 
as  they  called  to  mind  all  the  articles  they  had  read  in 
the  papers,  describing  his  recent  triumphs  in  other 
Plazas  in  Spain.  He  had  more  engagements  than  any 
other  torero.  Since  the  Corrida  of  the  Feast  of  the 
Resurrection,^  the  first  important  event  in  the  taurine 
year,  Gallardo  had  gone  from  place  to  place  killing  bulls. 
Later  on,  when  August  and  September  came  round,  he 
would  have  to  spend  his  nights  in  the  train  and  his  after- 
noons in  the  ring,  with  scarcely  breathing  time  between 
them.  His  agent  in  Seville  was  nearly  frantic — over- 
whelmed with  letters  and  telegrams,  and  not  knowing 
how  to  fit  so  many  requests  for  engagements  into  the 
exigencies  of  time. 

The  evening  before  this  he  had  fought  at  Ciudad  Real 
and,  still  in  his  splendid  dress,  had  thrown  himself  into 
the  train  in  order  to  arrive  in  Madrid  in  the  morning. 
He  had  spent  a  wakeful  night,  only  sleeping  by  snatches, 
boxed  up  in  the  small  sitting  accommodation  that  the 
other  passengers  managed,  by  squeezing  themselves  to- 
gether, to  leave  for  the  man  who  was  to  risk  his  life  on 
the  following  day. 

The  enthusiasts  admired  his  physical  endurance  and 
the  daring  courage  with  which  he  threw  himself  on  the 
bull  at  the  moment  of  killing  it.  "Let  us  see  what  you 
can  do  this  afternoon,"  they  said  with  the  fervour  of 

*A  cafe  specially  frequented  by  toreros. 
'  Vide  Glossary. 
Easter. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  9 

zealots,  "the  fraternity^  expects  great  things  from  you. 
You  will  lower  the  Mona  ^  of  many  of  our  rivals.  Let 
us  see  you  as  dashing  here  as  you  were  in  Seville  !'* 

His  admirers  dispersed  to  their  breakfasts  at  home  in 
order  to  go  early  to  the  Corrida.  Gallardo,  finding  him- 
self alone,  was  making  his  way  up  to  his  room,  impelled 
by  the  nervous  restlessness  which  overpowered  him, 
when  a  man  holding  two  children  by  the  hand,  pushed 
open  the  glass  doors  of  the  dining-room,  regardless  of 
the  servant's  enquiries  as  to  his  business.  He  smiled 
seraphically  when  he  saw  the  torero  and  advanced,  with 
his  eyes  fixed  on  him,  dragging  the  children  along  and 
scarcely  noticing  where  he  placed  his  feet.  Gallardo 
recognised  him,  "How' are  you,  Compare?'* 

Then  began  all  the  usual  questions  as  to  the  welfare 
of  the  family,  after  which  the  man  turned  to  his  children 
saying  solemnly: 

"Here  he  is.  You  are  always  asking  to  see  him.  He's 
exactly  like  his  portraits,  isn't  he  ?" 

The  two  mites  stared  religiously  at  the  hero  whose 
portraits  they  had  so  often  seen  on  the  prints  which 
adorned  the  walls  of  their  poor  little  home,  a  supernatu- 
ral being  whose  exploits  and  wealth  had  been  their  chief 
admiration  ever  since  they  had  begun  to  understand 
mundane  matters. 

"Juanillo,  kiss  your  Godfather's  hand,"  and  the 
younger  of  the  two  rubbed  a  red  cheek  against  the 
torero's  hand,  a  cheek  newly  polished  by  his  mother  in 
view  of  this  visit. 

Gallardo  caressed  his  head  abstractedly.    This  was  one 

^Aficion.     Vide  Glossary. 

■  The  knot  of  hair,  dressed  with  ribbons,  worn  at  the  back  of 
the  head  by  toreros,  principally  to  lessen  the  shock  of  a  fall.  The 
Mona  was  only  "lowered"  when  a  torero  retired  finally  from; 
the  ring,  either  on  account  of  age  or  inefficiency. 


10  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

of  the  numerous  godchildren  he  had  about  Spain.  En- 
thusiasts forced  him  to  stand  godfather  to  their  children, 
thinking  in  this  way  to  secure  their  future,  and  to  have 
to  appear  at  baptisms  was  one  of  the  penalties  of  his 
fame.  This  particular  godson  reminded  him  of  bad 
times  at  the  beginning  of  his  career,  and  he  felt  grateful 
to  the  father  for  the  confidence  he  had  placed  in  him  at 
a  time  when  others  were  still  doubtful  of  his  merits. 

"And  how  about  your  business.  Compare?"  enquired 
Gallardo,  "Is  it  going  on  better?" 

The  aficionado  ^  shrugged  his  shoulders.  He  was  get- 
ting a  livelihood,  thanks  to  his  dealings  in  the  barley 
market — just  getting  a  livelihood,  nothing  more. 

Gallardo  looked  compassionately  at  his  threadbare 
Sunday-best  clothes. 

"Would  you  like  to  see  the  Corrida,  Compare?  Well 
go  up  to  my  room  and  tell  Garabato '  to  give  you  a 

ticket. Good-bye,  my  dear  fellow.     Here's  a  trifle 

to  buy  yourselves  some  little  thing,"  and  while  the  little 
godson  again  kissed  his  right  hand,  with  his  other  hand 
the  matador  gave  each  child  a  couple  of  duros. 

The  father  dragged  away  his  oflfspring  with  many 
grateful  excuses,  though  he  did  not  succeed  in  making 
clear,  in  his  very  confused  thanks,  whether  his  delight 
was  for  the  present  to  the  children,  or  for  the  ticket 
for  the  bull-fight  which  the  diestro's  servant  would 
give  him. 

Gallardo  waited  for  some  time  so  as  not  to  meet  his 
admirer  and  the  children  in  his  room.  Then  he  looked 
at  his  watch.  Only  one  o'clock!  What  a  long  time  it 
still  was  till  the  bull-fight ! 

As  he  came  out  of  the  dining-room  and  turned  towards 
the  stairs,  a  woman  wrapped  in  an  old  cloak  came  out 

*  Vide  Glossary. 

*  Garabato.  Balaf  re — scarred 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  il 

of  the  halI-porter*s  office,  barring  his  way  with  deter- 
mined familiarity,  quite  regardless  of  the  servants'  ex- 
postulations. 

"Juaniyo!  Juan!  Don't  you  know  me?  I  am  'la 
Caracola/  the  Senora  Dolores,  mother  of  poor  Lechu- 
guero."  ^ 

Gallardo  smiled  at  this  little  dark  wizened  woman, 
verbose  and  vehement,  with  eyes  burning  like  live 
coals, — the  eyes  of  a  witch.  At  the  same  time,  knowing 
what  would  be  the  outcome  of  her  volubility,  he  raised 
his  hand  to  his  waistcoat  pocket. 

"Misery,  my  son!  Poverty  and  affliction!  When  I 
heard  you  were  bull-fighting  to-day  I  said  *I  will  go  and 
see  Juaniyo :  He  will  remember  the  mother  of  his  poor 
comrade.'  How  smart  you  are,  gipsy!  All  the  women 
are  crazy  after  you,  you  rascal!  I  am  very  badly  off, 
my  son.  I  have  not  even  a  shift,  and  nothing  has  en- 
tered my  mouth  to-day  but  a  little  Cazaya.^  They  keep 
me,  out  of  pity,  in  la  Pepona's  house,  who  is  from  over 
there — from  our  own  country, — a  very  decent  five  duro 
house.  Come  round  there,  they  would  love  to  see  you. 
I  dress  girls'  hair  and  run  errands  for  the  men.  Ah! 
If  only  my  poor  son  were  alive !  You  remember  Pepiyo? 
Do  you  remember  the  afternoon  on  which  he  died? 

Gallardo  put  a  duro  into  her  dry  hand  and  did  his 
best  to  escape  from  her  volubility,  which  by  this  time 
was  showing  signs  of  imminent  tears. 

Cursed  witch!  Why  did  she  come  and  remind  him, 
on  the  day  of  a  Corrida,  of  poor  Lechuguero,  the  com- 
panion of  his  early  years,  whom  he  had  seen  killed  al- 
most instantaneously,  gored  to  the  heart,  in  the  Plaza 

*  The  Snail. 

"Lettuce  seller. 

'A  kind  of  Anisette  made  at  Cazalla.  in  the  Sierra  Morena. 


12  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

of  Lebrija,  when  the  two  were  bull-fighting  as  Novil 
leros?^    Foul  hag  of  evil  omen! 

He  thrust  her  aside,  but  she,  flitting  from  sorrow  to 
joy  with  the  inconsequence  of  a  bird,  broke  out  into 
enthusiastic  praises  of  the  brave  boys,  the  good  toreros, 
who  carried  away  the  money  of  the  public  and  the  hearts 
of  the  women. 

"You  deser\'e  to  have  the  Queen,  my  beauty!  The 
Sefiora  Carmen  will  have  to  keep  her  eyes  wide  open. 
Some  fine  day  a  'gachi'  will  steal  and  keep  you.  Can't 
you  give  me  a  ticket  for  this  afternoon,  Juaniyo?  I  am 
bursting  with  longing  to  see  you  kill!" 

The  old  woman's  shrill  voice  and  noisy  cajoleries  di- 
verted the  amused  attention  of  the  hotel  servants  and 
enabled  a  number  of  inquisitive  idlers  and  beggars  who. 
attracted  by  the  presence  of  the  torero,  had  collected 
outside  the  entrance,  to  break  through  the  strict  super- 
vision that  was  usually  maintained  at  the  doors. 

Heedless  of  the  hotel  ser\'ants,  an  irruption  of  loafers, 
ne'er-do-wells  and  newspaper  sellers  burst  into  the  hall. 

Ragamuffins,  with  bundles  of  papers  under  their  arms, 
flourished  their  caps  and  greeted  Gallardo  with  boister- 
ous familiarity. 

"El  Gallardo,"  "Ole  El  Gallardo,"  "Long  live  the 
Brave." 

The  more  daring  seized  his  hand,  shaking  it  roughly 
and  pulling  it  about  in  their  anxiet}'  to  keep  touch  of  this 
national  hero,  whose  portraits  they  had  all  seen  in  every 
paper,  as  long  as  ever  they  could,  and  then,  to  give  their 
companions  a  chance  of  sharing  their  triumph,  they 
shouted  "Shake  his  hand.  He  won't  be  offended!  He's 
a  real  good  sort."  Their  devotion  made  them  almost 
kneel  before  the  matador. 

There  were  also  other  admirers,  just  as  insistent,  with 
*  Vide  Glossary. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  13 

unkempt  beards  and  clothes  that  had  been  fashionable 
in  the  days  of  their  youth,  who  shuffled  round  their  idol 
in  boots  that  had  seen  better  days.  They  swept  their 
greasy  sombreros  towards  him,  spoke  in  a  low  voice  and 
called  him  "Don  Juan,"  in  order  to  emphasise  the  differ- 
ence between  themselves  and  the  rest  of  that  irreverent, 
excited  crowd.  Some  of  them  drew  attention  to  their 
poverty  and  asked  for  a  small  donation,  others,  with 
more  impertinence,  asked,  in  the  name  of  their  love  of 
the  sport,  for  a  ticket  for  the  Corrida, — fully  intending 
to  sell  it  immediately. 

Gallardo  defended  himself  laughingly  against  this  ava- 
lanche which  jostled  and  overwhelmed  him,  and  from 
which  the  hotel  servants,  who  were  bewildered  at  the 
excitement  aroused  by  his  popularity,  were  quite  unable 
to  save  him. 

He  searched  through  all  his  pockets  until  he  finally 
turned  them  out  empty,  distributing  silver  coins  broad- 
cast among  the  greedy  hands  held  out  to  clutch  them. 

"There  is  no  more!  The  fuel  is  finished!  Leave  me 
alone,  my  friends!" 

Pretending  to  be  annoyed  by  this  popularity,  which  in 
fact  flattered  him  greatly,  he  suddenly  opened  a  way 
through  them  with  his  muscular  athletic  arms,  and  ran 
upstairs,  bounding  up  the  steps  with  the  lightness  of  a 
wrestler,  while  the  servants,  freed  from  the  restraint 
of  his  presence,  pushed  the  crowd  towards  the  door  and 
swept  them  into  the  street. 

Gallardo  passed  the  room  occupied  by  his  servant 
Garabato,  and  saw  him  through  the  half  open  door,  busy 
amid  trunks  and  boxes,  preparing  his  master's  clothes 
for  the  Corrida. 

On  finding  himself  alone  in  his  own  room,  the  happy 
excitement  caused  by  the  avalanche  of  admirers  vanished 
at  once.     The  bad  moments  of  the  days  of  a  Cornda 


14  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

returned,  the  anxiety  of  those  last  hours  before  going  to 
the  Plaza.  Bulls  of  Muira^  and  a  Madrid  audience. 
The  danger,  which  when  facing  him  seemed  to  intoxicate 
him  and  increase  his  daring,  was  anguish  to  him  when 
alone, — something  supernatural,  fearful  and  intimidating 
from  its  very  uncertainty. 

He  felt  overwhelmed,  as  if  the  fatigues  of  his  previous 
bad  night  had  suddenly  overcome  him.  He  longed  to 
throw  himself  on  one  of  the  beds  which  occupied  the 
end  of  the  room,  but  again  the  anxiety  which  possessed 
him,  with  its  myster}'  and  uncertainty,  banished  the  de- 
sire to  sleep. 

He  walked  restlessly  up  and  down  the  room,  lighting 
another  Havanna  from  the  end  of  the  one  he  had  just 
smoked. 

What  would  be  the  result  for  him  of  the  Madrid  sea- 
son just  about  to  commence?  What  would  his  enemies 
say?  What  would  his  professional  rivals  do?  He  had 
killed  many  Muira  bulls, — after  all  they  were  only  like 
any  other  bulls, — still,  he  thought  of  his  comrades  fallen 
in  the  arena, — nearly  all  of  them  victims  of  animals  from 
this  herd.  Cursed  Muiras!  No  wonder  he  and  other 
espadas  exacted  a  thousand  pesetas  "^  more  in  their  con- 
tracts each  time  they  fought  with  bulls  of  this  breed. 

He  wandered  vaguely  about  the  room  with  nervous 
step.  Now  and  then  he  stopped  to  gaze  vacantly  at  well 
known  things  amongst  his  luggage,  and  finally  he  threw 
himself  into  an  arm-chair,  as  if  seized  with  a  sudden 
weakness.  He  looked  often  at  his  watch — not  yet  two 
o'clock.     How  slowly  the  time  passed! 

He  longed,  as  a  relief  for  his  ner\^ousness,  for  the  time 
to  come  as  soon  as  possible  for  him  to  dress  and  go  to 

*  Muira,  a  famous  breeder  whose  bulls  have  a  reputation  for 
ferocity. 
'  A.bout  £40.    A  peseta  is  worth  about  95^d, 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  15 

the  Plaza.  The  people,  the  noise,  the  general  curiosity, 
the  desire  to  show  himself  calm  and  at  ease  before  an 
admiring  public,  and  above  all  the  near  approach  of 
danger,  real  and  personal,  would  instantly  blot  out  this 
anguish  of  solitude,  in  which  the  espada,  with  no  ex- 
ternal excitement  to  assist  him,  felt  himself  face  to  face 
with  something  very  like  fear. 

The  necessity  for  distracting  his  mind  made  him 
search  the  inside  pocket  of  his  coat  and  take  out  of  his 
pocket-book  a  letter  which  exhaled  a  strong  sweet  scent. 

Standing  by  a  window,  through  which  entered  the  dull 
light  of  an  interior  courtyard,  he  looked  at  the  envelope 
which  had  been  delivered  to  him  on  his  arrival  at  the 
hotel,  admiring  the  elegance  of  the  handwriting  in  which 
the  address  was  written, — so  delicate  and  well  shaped. 

Then  he  drew  out  the  letter,  inhaling  its  indefinable 
perfume  with  delight.  Ah!  These  people  of  high  birth 
who  had  travelled  much!  How  they  revealed  their  in- 
imitable breeding,  even  in  the  smallest  details ! 

Gallardo,  as  though  he  still  carried  about  his  person 
the  pungent  odour  of  the  poverty  of  his  early  years, 
perfumed  himself  abundantly.  His  enemies  laughed  at 
this  athletic  young  fellow  Vv^ho  by  his  love  of  scent  be- 
lied the  strength  of  his  sex.  Even  his  admirers  smiled 
at  his  weakness,  though  often  they  had  to  turn  their 
heads  aside,  sickened  by  the  diestro's  excess. 

A  whole  perfumer's  shop  accompanied  him  on  his 
journeys,  and  the  most  feminine  scents  anointed  his 
body  as  he  went  down  into  the  arena  amongst  the  scat- 
tered entrails  of  dead  horses  and  their  blood-stained 
dung. 

Certain  enamoured  cocottes  whose  acquaintance  he 
had  made  during  a  journey  to  the  Plazas  in  the  South 
of  France  had  given  him  the  secret  of  combining  and 
mixing  rare  perfumes, — but  the  scent  of  that  letter!    It 


i6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

was  the  scent  of  the  person  who  had  written  it! — that 
mysterious  scent  so  delicate,  indefinable,  and  inimitable, 
which  seemed  to  emanate  from  her  aristocratic  form,  and 
which  he  called  "the  scent  of  the  lady." 

He  read  and  re-read  the  letter  with  a  beatified  smile 
of  delight  and  pride. 

It  was  not  much,  only  half  a  dozen  lines — "a  greeting 
from  Seville,  wishing  him  good  luck  in  Madrid.  Con- 
gratulations beforehand  on  his  expected  triumph ." 

The  letter  might  have  been  lost  anywhere  without  com- 
promising the  woman  who  signed  it. 

"Friend  Gallardo,"  it  began,  in  a  delicate  handwriting 
which  made  the  torero's  eyes  brighten,  and  it  ended 
"Your  friend,  Sol,"  all  in  a  coldly  friendly  style,  writing 
to  him  as  "Uste"  ^  with  an  amiable  tone  of  superiority, 
as  though  the  words  were  not  between  equals,  but  fell  in 
mercy  from  on  high. 

As  the  torero  looked  at  the  letter,  with  the  adoration 
of  a  man  of  the  people  little  versed  in  reading,  he  could 
not  suppress  a  certain  feeling  of  annoyance,  as  though 
he  felt  himself  despised. 

"That  gachi!"  he  murmured,  "What  a  woman!  No 
one  can  discompose  her!  See  how  she  writes  to  me  as 
*Uste!'  'Uste'— to  me!" 

But  pleasant  memories  made  him  smile  with  self-satis- 
faction. That  cold  style  was  for  letters  only, — the  ways 
of  a  great  lady, — the  precautions  of  a  woman  of  the 
world.     His  annoyance  soon  turned  to  admiration. 

"How  clever  she  is!    A  cautious  minx!" 

He  smiled  a  smile  of  professional  satisfaction,  the 
pride  of  a  tamer  who  enhances  his  own  glory  by  exag- 
gerating the  strength  of  the  wild  beast  he  has  overcome. 

While  Gallardo  was  admiring  his  letter,  his  servant 

*A  contraction  of  "Vuestra  Merced" — Your  Worship.  Tht 
usual  Spanish  address  to  an  equal  or  superior. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  17 

Garabato  passed  in  and  out  of  the  room,  laden  with 
clothes  and  boxes  which  he  spread  on  a  bed. 

He  was  very  quiet  in  his  movements,  very  deft  of 
hand,  and  seemed  to  take  no  notice  of  the  matador's 
presence. 

For  many  years  past  he  had  accompanied  the  diestro 
to  all  his  bull-fights  as  "Sword  carrier."  ^  He  had  begun 
bull-fighting  at  the  "Capeas"  ^  at  the  same  time  as  Gal- 
lardo,  but  all  the  bad  luck  had  been  for  him  and  all  the 
advancement  and  fame  for  his  companion. 

He  was  dark,  swarthy,  and  of  poor  muscular  develop- 
ment, and  a  jagged,  badly  joined  scar  crossed  his 
wrinkled,  flabby,  old-looking  face  like  a  white  scrawl. 
It  was  a  goring  he  had  received  in  the  Plaza  of  some 
town  he  had  visited  and  which  had  nearly  been  his 
death,  and  besides  this  terrible  wound,  there  were  others 
which  disfigured  parts  of  his  body  which  could  not  be 
seen. 

By  a  miracle  he  had  emerged  with  his  life  from  his 
passion  for  bull-fighting,  and  the  cruel  part  of  it  was  that 
people  used  to  laugh  at  his  misfortunes,  and  seemed  to 
take  a  pleasure  in  seeing  him  trampled  and  mangled 
by  the  bulls. 

Finally  his  pig-headed  obstinacy  yielded  to  misfor- 
tune and  he  decided  to  become  the  attendant  and  con- 
fidential servant  of  his  old  friend.  He  was  Gallardo's 
most  fervent  admirer,  though  he  sometimes  took  ad- 
vantage of  this  confidential  intimacy  to  allow  himself 
to  criticise  and  advise.     "Had  he  stood  in  his  master's 

*Mozo  d'estoque — sword  or  rapier,  about  a  yard  long,  sharp- 
ened on  both  sides.  The  hilt  is  very  small,  in  the  shape  of  a 
cross,  and  is  bound  round  with  red  stuff  to  give  a  better  hold. 
At  the  top  of  the  hilt  is  a  knob  which  fits  into  the  palm  of 
the  hand  and  strengthens  the  thrust. 

'  Vide  Glossary. 


i8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

skin  he  would  have  done  better  under  certain  circum- 
stances." 

Gallardo's  friends  found  the  wrecked  ambitions  of  the 
sword  carrier  an  unfailing  source  of  merriment,  but  he 
took  no  notice  of  their  jokes.  Give  up  bulls?  Never!! 
So  that  all  memory  of  the  past  should  not  be  effaced,  he 
combed  his  coarse  hair  in  curls  above  his  ears,  and  pre- 
served on  his  occiput  the  long,  sacred  lock,  the  pig-tail 
of  his  younger  days,  the  hall-mark  of  the  profession 
which  distinguished  him  from  other  mortals. 

When  Gallardo  was  angry  with  him,  his  noisy,  im- 
pulsive rage  always  threatened  this  capillary  appendage. 
"You  dare  to  wear  a  pig-tail,  shameless  dolt?  I'll  cut 
off  that  rat's  tail  for  you!  Confounded  idiot! 
Maleta!!"! 

Garabato  received  these  threats  resignedly,  but  he  re- 
venged himself  by  retiring  into  the  silence  of  a  superior 
being,  and  only  replying  by  a  shrug  of  his  shoulders  to 
the  exultation  of  his  master  when,  on  returning  from  a 
bull-fight,  after  a  lucky  afternoon,  Gallardo  exclaimed 
with  almost  childish  vanity,  "What  did  you  think  of  it? 
Really,  wasn't  I  splendid?" 

In  consequence  of  their  early  comradeship  he  always 
retained  the  privilege  of  addressing  his  master  as  "tu." 
He  could  not  speak  otherwise  to  the  "maestro,"  ^  but  the 
"tu"  was  accompanied  by  a  grave  face,  and  an  expres- 
sion of  genuine  respect.  His  familiarity  was  something 
akin  to  that  of  their  squires  towards  the  knights  errant 
of  olden  days ! 

From  his  neck  to  the  top  of  his  head  he  was  a  torero, 
but  the  rest  of  his  person  seemed  half  tailor,  half  valet. 
Dressed  in  a  suit  of  English  cloth, — a  present  from  his 

*  A  small  portmanteau.  Term  applied  to  a  torero's  valet,  but 
an  insult  if  applied  to  a  torero. 

*  Maestro — one  high  up  in  the  profession. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  19 

master,  he  had  the  lapels  of  his  coat  covered  with  pins 
and  safety-pins,  while  several  threaded  needles  were 
fastened  into  one  of  his  sleeves.  His  dark  withered 
hands  manipulated  and  arranged  things  with  the  gentle- 
ness of  a  woman. 

When  everything  that  was  necessary  for  his  master's 
toilet  had  been  placed  upon  the  bed,  he  passed  the  nu- 
merous articles  in  review  to  ensure  that  nothing  was 
wanting  anywhere. 

After  a  time  he  came  and  stood  in  the  middle  of  the 
room,  without  looking  at  Gallardo,  and,  as  if  he  were 
speaking  to  himself,  said  in  a  hoarse  and  rasping  voice, 

*Two  o'clock!" 

Gallardo  raised  his  head  nervously,  as  if  up  to  now  he 
had  not  noticed  his  servant's  presence.  He  put  the  let- 
ter into  his  pocket-book,  and  then  walked  lazily  to  the 
end  of  the  room,  as  though  he  wished  to  postpone  the 
dressing  time. 

"Is  everything  there?" 

Suddenly  his  pale  face  became  flushed  and  violently 
distorted  and  his  eyes  opened  unnaturally  wide,  as  if  he 
had  just  experienced  some  awful,  unexpected  shock. 

"What  clothes  have  you  put  out?" 

Garabato  pointed  to  the  bed,  but  before  he  could 
speak,  his  master's  wrath  fell  on  him,  loud  and  terrible. 

"Curse  you !  Don't  you  know  anything  about  the 
profession?  Have  you  just  come  from  the  cornfields? — 
Corrida  in  Madrid, — bulls  from  Muira, — and  you  put 
me  out  red  clothes  like  those  poor  Manuel,  El  Espartero, 
wore !  You  are  so  idiotic  that  one  would  think  you  were 
my  enemy!  It  would  seem  that  you  wished  for  my 
death,  you  villain !" 

The  more  he  thought  of  the  enormity  of  this  careless- 
ness, which  was  equivalent  to  courting  disaster,  the  more 
his  anger  increased — To  fight  in  Madrid  in  red  clothes, 


20  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

after  what  had  happened !  His  eyes  sparkled  with  rage, 
as  if  he  had  just  received  some  treacherous  attack,  the 
whites  of  his  eyes  became  bloodshot  and  he  seemed  ready 
to  fall  on  the  unfortunate  Garabato  with  his  big  rough 
hands. 

A  discreet  knock  at  the  door  cut  the  scene  short, — 
"Come  in." 

A  young  man  entered,  dressed  in  a  light  suit  with  a 
red  cravat,  carrying  his  Cordovan  felt  hat  in  a  hand 
covered  with  large  diamond  rings.  Gallardo  recognised 
him  at  once  with  the  facility  for  remembering  faces  ac- 
quired by  those  who  live  constantly  rubbing  shoulders 
with  the  crowd.  His  anger  was  instantly  transformed 
to  a  smiling  amiability,  as  if  the  visit  was  a  pleasant  sur- 
prise to  him. 

It  was  a  friend  from  Bilbao,  an  enthusiastic  aficionado, 
a  warm  partisan  of  his  triumphs.  That  was  all  he  could 
remember  about  him.  His  name?  He  knew  so  many 
people !  What  did  he  call  himself  ? — All  he  knew  was 
that  most  certainly  he  ought  to  call  him  *'tu,"  as  this 
was  an  old  acquaintanceship. 

"Sit  down — This  is  a  surprise !  When  did  you  arrive  ? 
Are  you  and  yours  quite  well  ?'* 

His  admirer  sat  down,  with  the  contentment  of  a  de- 
votee who  enters  the  sanctuary  of  his  idol,  with  no  in- 
tention of  moving  from  it  till  the  very  last  moment,  de- 
lighted at  being  addressed  as  "tu"  by  the  master,  and 
calling  him  *'J^^ii"  ^t  ever}^  other  word,  so  that  the  furni- 
ture, walls,  or  anyone  passing  along  the  passage  out- 
side should  be  aware  of  his  intimacy  with  the  great  man. 
*He  had  arrived  that  morning  and  was  returning  on  the 
following  day.  The  journey  was  solely  to  see  Gallardo. 
He  had  read  of  his  exploits.  The  season  seemed  open- 
ing well.    This  afternoon  would  be  a  good  one.    He  had 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  21 

been  in  the  boxing  enclosure^  in  the  morning  and  had 
noticed  an  almost  black  animal  which  assuredly  would 
give  great  sport  in  Gallardo's  hands ' 

The  master  hurriedly  cut  short  the  habitue's  prophe- 
sies. 

"Pardon  me — Pray  excuse  me.    I  will  return  at  once." 

Leaving  the  room,  he  went  towards  an  unnumbered 
door  at  the  end  of  the  passage. 

"What  clothes  shall  I  put  out?"  enquired  Garabato,  ir; 
a  voice  more  hoarse  than  usual,  from  his  wish  to  appear 
submissive. 

"The  green,  the  tobacco,  the  blue, — anything  you 
please,"  and  Gallardo  disappeared  through  the  little  door, 
while  his  servant,  freed  from  his  presence,  smiled  with 
malicious  revenge.  He  knew  what  that  sudden  rush 
meant,  just  at  dressing  time, — "the  relief  of  fear"  they 
called  it  in  the  profession,  and  his  smile  expressed  satis- 
faction to  see  once  more  that  the  greatest  masters  of  the 
art  and  the  bravest,  suffered  as  the  result  of  their  anxiety, 
just  the  same  as  he  himself  had  done,  when  he  went  down 
into  the  arena  in  different  towns. 

When  Gallardo  returned  to  his  room,  some  little  time 
after,  he  found  a  fresh  visitor.  This  was  Doctor  Ruiz, 
a  popular  physician  who  had  spent  thirty  years  signing 
the  bulletins  of  the  various  Cogidas,^  and  attending  every 
torero  who  fell  wounded  in  the  Plaza  of  Madrid, 

Gallardo  admired  him  immensely,  regarding  him  as  the 
greatest  exponent  of  universal  science,  but  at  the  same 
time  he  allowed  himself  affectionate  chaff  at  the  expense 
of  the  Doctor's  good-natured  character  and  personal  un- 
tidiness.    His  admiration  was  that  of  the  populace, — 

*  Before  the  fight  the  bulls  are  divided  and  those  chosen  for 
the  day's  work  are  put  into  separate  boxes  or  stalls. 
'  Vide  Glossary. 


22  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

only  recognising  ability  in  a  slovenly  person  if  he  pos- 
sesses sufficient  eccentricity  to  distinguish  him  from  the 
general  run. 

He  was  of  low  stature  and  prominent  abdomen,  broad 
faced  and  flat-nosed,  with  a  Newgate  frill  of  dirty  whitish 
yellow  which  gave  him  at  a  distance  a  certain  resem- 
blance to  a  bust  of  Socrates.  As  he  stood  up,  his  pro- 
tuberant and  flabby  stomach  seemed  to  shake  under  his 
ample  waistcoat  as  he  spoke.  As  he  sat  down  this  same 
part  of  his  anatomy  rose  up  to  his  meagre  chest.  His 
clothes,  stained  and  old  after  a  few  days'  use,  seemed  to 
float  about  his  unharmonious  body  like  garments  belong- 
ing to  someone  else, — so  obese  was  he  in  the  parts  de- 
voted to  digestion,  and  so  lean  in  those  of  locomotion. 

"He  is  a  simpleton,"  said  Gallardo — "a  learned  man 
certainly,  as  good  as  bread,  but  'touched.'  He  will  never 
have  a  peseta.  Whatever  he  has  he  gives  away,  and  he 
takes  what  anyone  chooses  to  pay  him." 

Two  great  passions  filled  his  life — the  Revolution  and 
Bulls.  That  vague  but  tremendous  revolution  which 
would  come,  leaving  in  Europe  nothing  that  now  existed, 
an  anarchical  republicanism  that  he  did  not  trouble  to 
explain,  and  which  was  only  clear  in  its  exterminatory 
negations.  The  toreros  spoke  to  him  as  a  father,  he  called 
them  all  "tu,"  and  it  was  sufficient  for  a  telegram  to 
come  from  the  furthest  end  of  the  Peninsula  for  the  good 
doctor  instantly  to  take  the  train  and  rush  to  heal  a  goring 
received  by  one  of  his  "lads"  with  no  expectation  of  any 
recompense,  beyond  simply  what  they  chose  to  give  him. 

He  embraced  Gallardo  on  seeing  him  after  his  long  ab- 
sence, pressing  his  flaccid  abdomen  against  that  body 
which  seemed  made  of  bronze. 

"Oh !  You  fine  fellow !"  He  thought  the  espada  looked 
better  than  ever. 

"And  how  about  that  Republic,  Doctor?    When  is  it 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  23 

going  to  come?  ..."  asked  Gallardo,  with  Andalusian 
laziness  ...  El  Nacional  *  says  that  we  are  on  the 
verge,  and  that  it  will  come  one  of  these  days. 

"What  does  it  matter  to  you,  rascal  ?  Leave  poor  Na- 
cional in  peace.  He  had  far  better  learn  to  be  a  better 
banderillero.  As  for  you,  what  ought  to  interest  you  is 
to  go  on  killing  bulls,  like  God  himself !  .  .  .  We  have  a 
fine  little  afternoon  in  prospect!  I  am  told  that  the 
herd  .  .  ." 

But  when  he  got  as  far  as  this,  the  young  man  who  had 
seen  the  selection  and  wished  to  give  news  of  it,  inter- 
rupted the  doctor  to  speak  of  the  dark  bull  "which  had 
struck  his  eye,"  and  from  which  the  greatest  wonders 
might  be  expected.  The  two  men  who,  after  bowing  to 
each  other,  had  sat  together  in  the  room  for  a  long  time 
in  silence,  now  stood  up  face  to  face,  and  Gallardo 
thought  that  an  introduction  was  necessary,  but  what  was 
he  to  call  the  friend  who  was  addressing  him  as  "tu?" 
He  scratched  his  head,  frowning  reflectively,  but  his  in- 
decision was  short. 

"Listen  here.  What  is  your  name  ?  Pardon  me — ^you 
understand  I  see  so  many  people." 

The  youth  smothered  beneath  a  smile  his  disenchant- 
ment at  finding  himself  forgotten  by  the  Master  and  gave 
his  name.  When  he  heard  it,  Gallardo  felt  all  the  past 
recur  suddenly  to  his  memory  and  repaired  his  forgetful- 
ness  by  adding  after  the  name  "a.  rich  mine-owner  in 
Bilbao,"  and  then  presented  "the  famous  Dr.  Ruiz,"  and 
the  two  men,  united  by  the  enthusiasm  of  a  common  pas- 
sion, began  to  chat  about  the  afternoon's  herd,  just  as  if 
they  had  known  each  other  all  their  lives. 

"Sit  yourselves  down,"  said  Gallardo,  pointing  to  a 
sofa  at  the  further  end  of  the  room,  "You  won't  disturb 

'Nickname  of  one  of  the  banderilleros  forming  part  of  Gal' 
lardo's  cuadrilla. 


24  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

me  there.  Talk  and  pay  no  attention  to  me.  I  am  going 
to  dress,  as  we  are  all  men  here,"  and  he  began  to  take 
off  his  clothes,  remaining  only  in  his  undergarments. 

Seated  on  a  chair  under  the  arch  which  divided  the 
sittinr  room  from  the  bedroom,  he  gave  himself  over  into 
the  hands  of  Garabato,  who  had  opened  a  Russia  leather 
bag  from  which  he  had  taken  an  almost  feminine  toilet 
case,  for  trimming  up  his  master. 

In  spite  of  his  being  already  carefully  shaved,  Garabato 
soaped  his  face  and  passed  the  razor  over  his  cheeks  with 
the  celerity  bom  of  daily  practice.  After  washing  him- 
self Gallardo  resumed  his  seat.  The  servant  then 
sprinkled  his  hair  with  brilliantine  and  scent,  combing  it 
in  curls  over  his  forehead  and  temples,  and  then  began 
to  dress  the  sign  of  the  profession,  the  sacred  pig-tail. 

With  infinite  care  he  combed  and  plaited  the  long  lock 
which  adorned  his  master's  occiput;  and  then,  interrupt- 
ing the  operation,  fastened  it  on  the  top  of  his  head  with 
two  hairpins,  leaving  its  final  dressing  for  a  later  stage. 
Next  he  must  attend  to  the  feet,  and  he  drew  off  the 
fighter's  socks,  leaving  him  only  his  vest  and  spun-silk 
drawers. 

Gallardo's  powerful  muscles  stood  out  beneath  these 
clothes  in  superb  swellings.  A  hollov/  in  one  thigh  be- 
trayed a  place  w^here  the  flesh  had  disappeared  owing  to 
a  gash  from  a  horn.  The  swarthy  skin  of  his  arms  was 
marked  with  white  wheals,  the  scars  of  ancient  wounds. 
His  dark  hairless  chest  was  crossed  by  two  irregular 
purple  lines,  record  also  of  bloody  feats.  On  one  of  his 
heels  the  flesh  was  of  a  violet  colour,  witli  a  round  de- 
pression which  looked  as  if  it  had  been  the  mould  for  a 
coin.  All  this  fighting  machine  exhaled  an  odour  of  clean 
and  healthy  flesh  blended  with  that  of  women's  pung*'--' 
scents. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  25 

Garabato,  with  an  armful  of  cotton  wool  and  white 
bandages,  knelt  at  his  master's  feet. 

"Just  like  the  ancient  gladiators !"  said  Dr.  Ruiz,  inter- 
rupting his  conversation  with  the  Bilboan,  "See!  You 
have  become  a  Roman,  Juan." 

"Age,  Doctor!"  replied  the  matador,  with  a  tinge  of 
melancholy,  "We  are  all  getting  older.  When  I  fought 
both  bulls  and  hunger  at  the  same  time  I  did  not  want  all 
this.     I  had  feet  of  iron  in  the  Capeas." 

Garabato  placed  small  tufts  of  cotton  wool  between 
his  master's  toes  and  covered  the  soles  and  the  upper 
part  of  his  feet  with  a  thin  layer  of  it ;  then,  pulling  out 
the  bandages,  he  rolled  them  round  in  tight  spirals,  like 
the  wrappings  of  an  ancient  mummy.  To  fix  them  firmly 
he  drew  one  of  the  threaded  needles  from  his  sleeve  and 
carefully  and  neatly  sewed  up  their  ends. 

Gallardo  stamped  on  the  ground  with  his  bandaged  feet 
which  seemed  to  him  firmer  in  their  soft  wrappings.  In 
the  bandages  he  felt  them  both  strong  and  agile.  The 
servant  then  drew  on  the  long  stockings  which  came  half- 
way up  the  thigh,  thick  and  flexible  like  gaiters.  This 
was  the  only  protection  for  the  legs  under  the  silk  of  the 
fighting  dress. 

"Be  careful  of  wrinkles !  See,  Garabato,  I  don't  want 
to  wear  sacks,"  and  standing  before  the  looking-glass, 
endeavouring  to  see  both  back  and  front,  he  bent  down 
and  passed  his  hands  over  his  legs  smoothing  out  the 
wrinkles  for  himself. 

Over  these  white  stockings  Garabato  drew  others  of 
pink  silk  which  alone  remained  visible  when  the  torero 
was  fully  dressed,  and  then  Gallardo  put  his  feet  into  the 
pumps  which  he  chose  from  amongst  several  pairs  which 
Garabato  had  laid  out  on  a  box, — ^all  quite  new  and  with 
white  soles. 

Then  began  the  real  task  of  the  dressing.     Holding 


26  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

them  by  the  upper  part,  the  servant  handed  him  the  fight- 
ing knee-breeches  made  of  tobacco-coloured  silk,  with 
heavy  gold  embroidery  up  the  seams.  Gallardo  slipped 
them  on,  and  the  thick  cords,  ending  in  gold  tassels,  which 
drew  in  the  lower  ends,  hung  down  over  his  feet.  These 
cords  which  gather  the  breeches  below  the  knee,  con- 
stricting the  leg  to  give  it  artificial  strength,  are  called 
"los  machos." 

Gallardo  swelled  out  the  muscles  of  his  legs  and 
ordered  his  servant  to  tighten  the  cords  without  fear. 
This  was  one  of  the  most  important  operations  as  a  mata- 
dor's "machos"  must  be  well  tightened  and  Garabato, 
with  nimble  dexterity  soon  had  the  cords  wound  round 
and  tucked  away  out  of  sight  underneath  the  ends  of  the 
breeches,  with  the  tassels  hanging  down. 

The  master  then  drew  on  the  fine  lawn  shirt  held  out 
by  his  servant,  the  front  covered  with  zigzag  crimpings, 
and  as  delicate  and  clear  as  a  woman's  garment.  After 
he  had  fastened  it  Garabato  knotted  the  long  cravat  that 
hung  down  dividing  the  chest  with  its  red  line  till  it  lost 
itself  in  the  waistband  of  the  drawers.  Now  remained 
the  most  complicated  article  of  clothing,  the  waist-sash — 
a  long  strip  of  silk  over  four  yards  long  which  seemed  to 
take  up  the  whole  room,  and  which  Garabato  handled  with 
the  mastery  of  long  experience. 

The  espada  went  and  stood  near  his  friends  at  the  other 
end  of  the  room,  fastening  one  end  of  the  sash  to  his 
waist. 

"Now  then,  pay  attention,"  he  said  to  his  servant, 
"and  do  your  little  best." 

Turning  slowly  on  his  heels  he  gradually  approached 
his  servant,  while  the  sash  which  he  held  up  rolled  itself 
round  his  waist  in  regular  curves,  and  gave  it  a  more 
graceful  shape.  Garabato  with  quick  movements  of  his 
hand  changed  the  position  of  the  band  of  silk.     In  some 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  27 

turns  the  sash  was  folded  double,  in  others  it  was  com- 
pletely open,  and  always  adjusted  to  the  matador's  waist, 
smooth  and  seemingly  like  one  piece  without  wrinkles  or 
unevenness.  In  the  course  of  his  rotatory  journey,  Gal- 
lardo,  scrupulous  and  very  difficult  to  please  in  the  adorn- 
ment of  his  person,  several  times  stopped  his  forward 
movement,  to  step  a  few  paces  back  and  rectify  the  ar- 
rangement. 

"That  is  not  right,"  he  said  ill-humouredly.  "Curs« 
you!  take  more  care,  Garabato!" 

After  many  halts  on  the  journey,  Gallardo  came  to  the 
last  turn,  with  the  whole  length  of  silk  wound  round  his 
waist.  The  clever  valet  had  put  stitches,  pins,  and  safety- 
pins  all  round  his  master's  body,  making  his  clothing 
literally  all  one  piece.  To  get  out  of  them  the  Torero 
would  have  to  resort  to  the  aid  of  scissors  in  other  hands. 
He  could  not  get  rid  of  any  one  of  his  garments  till  he 
returned  to  the  hotel,  unless  indeed  a  bull  did  it  for  him 
in  the  open  Plaza,  and  they  finished  his  undressing  in 
the  Infirmary. 

Gallardo  sat  down  again  and  Garabato,  taking  hold  of 
the  pig-tail,  freed  it  from  the  support  of  the  pins,  and 
fastened  it  to  the  *Mona,'  a  bunch  of  ribbons  like  a  black 
cockade,  which  reminded  one  of  the  old  "redecilla"  ^  of 
the  earliest  days  of  bull-fighting. 

The  master  stretched  himself,  as  if  he  wished  to  put  off 
getting  finally  into  the  rest  of  his  costume.  He  asked 
Garabato  to  hand  him  the  cigar  he  had  left  on  the  bed- 
side table,  enquired  what  the  time  was,  and  seemed  to 
think   that  all  the  clocks  had  gone  fast. 

"It  is  still  early.  The  lads  have  not  yet  come  ...  I 
do  not  like  to  go  early  to  the  Plaza.  Every  tile  in  the 
roof  seems  to  weigh  on  one  when  one  is  waiting  there." 

At  this  moment  an  hotel  servant  announced  that  the 
*  Old  Spanish  head-dress,  a  kind  of  net. 


26  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

carnage  with  the  "cuadrilla"*  was  waiting  for  him 
downstairs. 

The  time  had  come !  There  was  no  longer  any  pretext 
for  delaying  the  moment  of  his  departure.  He  slipped 
the  gold-embroidered  waist-coat  over  the  silk  sash,  and 
above  this  the  jacket,  a  piece  of  dazzling  embroidery  in 
very  high  relief,  as  heavy  as  a  piece  of  armour  and  flash- 
ing with  hght  like  live  coals.  The  tobacco-coloured  silk 
was  only  visible  on  the  inside  of  the  arms,  and  in  two 
triangles  on  the  back.  Almost  the  whole  fabric  was  hid- 
den beneath  a  mass  of  golden  tufts  and  gold-embroidered 
flowers  with  coloured  precious  stones  in  their  petals. 
The  epaulettes  were  heavy  masses  of  gold  embroidery, 
from  which  hung  innumerable  tassels  of  the  same  metal. 
The  gold  work  reached  the  extreme  edge  of  the  jacket 
where  it  ended  in  a  thick  fringe,  which  quivered  at  every 
step.  Between  the  gold-edged  openings  of  the  pockets 
appeared  the  comers  of  two  silk  handkerchiefs  which, 
like  the  cravat  and  sash,  were  red. 

*'Give  me  *La  Montera.*"* 

Out  of  an  oval  box  Garabato  took  with  great  care  the 
fighting  montera  with  black  frizzed  border  and  pompons 
which  stood  out  on  either  side  like  large  ears.  Gallardo 
put  it  on,  being  careful  that  his  mona  should  remain 
uncovered,  hanging  symmetrically  down  his  back. 

"Now  the  cape." 

From  the  back  of  a  chair  Garabato  took  the  cape  called 
"La  Capa  de  Paseo,"  ^  the  gala  cape,  a  princely  mantle  of 
silk,  the  same  colour  as  his  clothes,  and,  like  them,  cov- 
ered with  gold  embroidery.  Gallardo  slung  it  over  one 
shoulder  and  then  looked  at  himself  in  the  glass,  well 
satisfied  with  the  effect. 


*  Vide  Glossary. 

■Toreador's  small  round  hat,  like  a  pork  pie. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  29 

•That's  not  so  bad.     Now  to  the  Plaza." 

His  two  friends  took  their  leave  hurriedly  In  order  to 
find  a  cab  and  follow  him.  Garabato  tucked  under  his 
arm  a  large  bundle  of  red  cloth,  from  the  ends  of  which 
projected  the  pommels  and  buttons  of  several  swords. 

As  Gallardo  descended  to  the  vestibule  of  the  hotel,  he 
saw  that  the  street  was  filled  with  a  noisy,  excited  crowd, 
as  if  some  great  event  had  just  happened,  and  he  could 
hear  the  buzz  of  a  multitude  whom  he  could  not  see 
through  the  door-way. 

The  landlord  and  all  his  family  ran  up  with  out- 
stretched hands  as  if  they  were  speeding  him  on  a  long 
journey. 

"Good  luck !     May  all  go  well  with  you !" 

The  servants,  sinking  all  social  distinctions,  also  shook 
his  hand. 

"Good  luck,  Don  Juan!" 

He  turned  round,  smiling  on  every  side,  regardless  of 
the  anxious  looks  of  the  women  of  the  hotel. 

"Thanks,  many  thanks  ...  So  long!" 

He  was  another  man  now.  Now  that  he  had  slimg  his 
dazzling  cape  over  his  shoulder,  a  careless  smile  lit  up  his 
face.  He  was  pale  with  a  moist  pallor  like  a  sick  man, 
but  he  laughed  with  the  joy  of  life,  and,  going  to  meet  his 
public,  he  adopted  his  new  attitude  with  the  instinctive 
facility  of  a  man  who  has  to  put  on  a  fine  air  before  his 
audience. 

He  swaggered  arrogantly  as  he  walked,  puffing  at  the 
cigar  in  his  left  hand,  and  swayed  from  his  hips  under 
his  gorgeous  cape,  stepping  out  firmly  with  the  pride  of  a 
handsome  man. 

"Now  then,  gentlemen!  Make  way,  please!  Many 
thanks  .  .  .  Many  thanks!" 

As  he  opened  a  way  for  himself  he  endeavoured  to  pro- 
tect his  clothes  from  contact  with  the  dirty  crowd  of  ill- 


30  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

dressed  but  enthusiastic  roughs  who  crowded  round  the 
hotel  door.  They  had  no  money  to  go  to  the  corrida,  but 
they  took  advantage  of  this  opportunity  of  shaking  hands 
with  the  famous  Gallardo,  or  even  of  touching  some  part 
of  his  clothing. 

Close  to  the  pavement  was  waiting  a  wagonette  drawn 
by  four  mules,  gaily  caparisoned  with  tassels  and  little 
bells.  Garabato  had  already  hoisted  himself  on  to  the 
box  seat  with  his  bundle  of  cloth  and  swords.  Behind 
sat  three  toreros  with  their  capes  on  their  knees  all  wear- 
ing bright-coloured  clothes,  embroidered  as  profusely  as 
those  of  the  Master,  only  with  silver  instead  of  gold. 

Gallardo  was  obliged  to  defend  himself  with  his  elbows 
against  the  outstretched  hands,  and,  amid  the  jostling  of 
the  crowd,  he  managed  at  last  to  reach  the  steps  of  the 
carriage.  Amidst  the  general  excitement  he  was  finally 
unceremoniously  hoisted  into  his  seat  from  behind. 

"Good  afternoon,  gentlemen,"  he  said  curtly  to  his 
cuadrilla. 

He  took  the  seat  nearest  to  the  step  so  that  all  could 
see  him,  and  he  smiled  and  nodded  his  acknowledgment 
of  the  cries  and  shouts  of  applause  of  a  variety  of  ragged 
women  and  newspaper  boys. 

The  carriage  dashed  forward  with  all  the  strength  of 
the  spirited  mules  and  filled  the  street  with  a  merry  tink- 
ling. The  crowd  opened  out  to  let  the  team  pass,  but 
many  hung  on  to  the  carriage,  in  imminent  danger  of  fall- 
ing under  its  wheels.  Sticks  and  hats  were  brandished 
in  the  air.  A  wave  of  enthusiasm  swept  over  the  crowd. 
It  was  one  of  those  contagious  outbursts  which  at  times 
sway  the  masses,  driving  them  mad,  and  making  them 
shout  without  knowing  why. 

"Ole  the  brave  fellows !  .  .  .  Viva  Espana !" 

Gallardo,  still  pale  but  smiling,  saluted  and  repeated 
"Many  thanks."     He   was   moved  by   this   outburst  of 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  31 

popular  enthusiasm,  and  proud  of  the  fame  that  made 
them  couple  his  name  with  that  of  his  country. 

A  crowd  of  rough  boys  and  dishevelled  girls  ran  after 
the  carriage  as  fast  as  their  legs  could  carry  them,  as  if 
they  expected  to  find  sometliing  extraordinary  at  the  end 
of  their  mad  career. 

For  an  hour  previously  the  Calle  de  Alcala  had  been  a 
stream  of  carriages,  between  banks  of  crowded  foot-pas- 
sengers, all  hurrying  to  the  outskirts  of  the  town.  Every 
sort  of  vehicle,  ancient  or  modem,  figured  in  this 
transient  but  confused  and  noisy  migration,  from  the 
pre-historic  char-a-banc,  come  to  light  like  an  anachron- 
ism, to  the  modern  motor  car. 

The  trams  passed  along  crowded  bunches  of  passengers 
overflowing  on  to  their  steps.  Omnibuses  took  up  fares 
at  the  comer  of  the  Calle  de  Sevilla,  while  the  conductors 
shouted  "Plaza!  Plaza!"  Mules  covered  with  tassels, 
drawing  carriages  full  of  women  in  white  mantillas  and 
bright  flowers,  trotted  along  gaily  to  the  tinkling  of  their 
silvery  bells.  Every  moment  could  be  heard  exclama- 
tions of  terror  as  some  child,  threading  its  way  from  one 
pavement  to  the  other,  regardless  of  the  rushing  stream 
of  vehicles,  emerged  with  the  agility  of  a  monkey  from 
under  tlie  carriage  wheels.  Motor  sirens  shrieked  and 
coachmen  shouted.  Newspaper  sellers  hawked  leaflets 
giving  a  picture  and  history  of  the  bulls  which  were 
going  to  fight,  or  the  portraits  and  biographies  of  the 
famous  toreros.  Now  and  then  a  murmur  of  curiosity 
swelled  the  dull  humming  of  the  crowd. 

Between  the  dark  uniforms  of  the  Municipal  Guard 
rode  showily  dressed  horsemen  on  lean  miserable  crocks, 
wearing  gold-embroidered  jackets,  wide  beaver  som- 
breros with  a  pompon  on  one  side  like  a  cockade,  and 
yellow  padding  on  their  legs.  These  were  the  picadors,* 
*  Vide  Glossary. 


32  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

rough  men  of  wild  appearance  who  carried,  clinging  to 
the  crupper  behind  their  high  Moorish  saddles,  a  kind 
of  devil  dressed  in  red,  the  *'Mono  Sabio,"  ^  the  servant 
who  had  taken  the  horse  to  their  houses. 

The  cuadrillas  passed  by  in  open  carriages.  The  gold 
embroidery  of  the  toreros  flashing  in  the  afternoon  sun 
seemed  to  dazzle  the  crowd  and  excite  all  its  enthusiasm. 
"There's  Fuentes!"  'That's  El  Bomba!"  cried  the 
people,  and  pleased  at  having  recognised  them,  they 
followed  the  disappearing  carriages  with  anxious  eyes, 
just  as  if  something  w^ere  going  to  happen  and  they 
feared  they  would  be  late. 

From  the  top  of  the  Calle  de  Alcala,  the  whole  length 
of  the  broad  straight  street  could  be  seen  lying  white 
under  the  sun  with  its  rows  of  trees  beginning  to  turn 
green  under  the  breath  of  spring.  The  balconies  were 
black  with  onlookers  and  the  roadway  was  only  visible 
here  and  there  amidst  the  swarming  crowd  which,  on  foot 
and  in  carriages,  was  making  its  way  towards  La 
Cibeles.^ 

From  this  point  the  ground  rose  between  lines  of  trees 
and  buildings  and  the  vista  was  closed  by  the  Puerta  de 
Alcala  outlined  like  a  triumphal  arch  against  the  blue  sky 
on  which  floated  a  few  flecks  of  cloud  like  wandering 
swans. 

Gallardo  sat  in  silence,  replying  to  the  people  only  with 
his  fixed  smile.  Since  his  first  greeting  to  the  banderil- 
leros  he  had  not  uttered  a  word.  They  also  were  pale 
and  silent  with  anxiety  for  the  unknown.  Now  that  they 
were  amongst  toreros  they  had  laid  aside  as  useless  the 
swagger  that  was  necessary  in  the  presence  of  the  public. 

A  mysterious  inspiration  seemed  to  tell  the  people  of 

*  These  servants  have  to  strip  the  harness  off  dead  horses  and 
sprinkle  sand  over  the  pools  of  blood. 

*  The  name  of  a  fountain. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  33 

the  coming  of  the  last  cuadrilla  on  its  way  to  the  Plaza. 
The  group  of  ragamuffins  who  had  run  after  the  carriage 
acclaiming  Gallardo  had  lost  their  breath  and  had  scat- 
tered amongst  the  traffic,  but  all  the  same,  people  glanced 
behind  them  as  though  they  felt  the  proximity  of  the 
famous  torero  and  slackened  their  pace,  lining  the  edge  of 
the  pavement  so  as  to  get  a  better  view  of  him. 

Women  seated  in  the  carriages  rolling  along  turned 
their  heads  as  they  heard  the  tinkling  bells  of  the  trotting 
mules.  Dull  roars  came  from  various  groups  standing 
on  the  pavement.  These  must  have  been  demonstrations 
of  enthusiasm  for  many  waved  their  sombreros  whilst 
others  greeted  him  by  flourishing  their  sticks. 

Gallardo  replied  to  all  these  salutations  with  the  smile 
of  a  barber's  block.  With  his  thoughts  far  away,  he 
took  little  notice  of  them.  By  his  side  sat  El  Nacional, 
the  banderillero  in  whom  he  placed  most  trust,  a  big,  hard 
man,  older  by  ten  years  than  himself,  with  a  grave  man- 
ner and  eyebrows  that  met  between  his  eyes.  He  was 
well  known  in  the  profession  for  his  kindness  of  heart 
and  sterling  worth,  and  also  for  his  political  opinions. 

"Juan,  you  will  not  have  to  complain  of  Madrid,"  said 
El  Nacional,  "you  have  taken  the  public  by  storm." 

But  Gallardo,  as  if  he  had  not  heard  him  but  felt 
obliged  to  give  vent  to  the  thoughts  that  were  weighing  on 
him,  replied,  "My  heart  tells  me  that  something  will  hap- 
pen this  afternoon." 

As  they  arrived  at  la  Cibeles  the  carriage  stopped.  A 
great  funeral  was  passing  through  the  Prado  in  the 
direction  of  Castellana  and  cut  through  the  avalanche  of 
carriages  coming  from  the  Calle  de  Alcala. 

Gallardo  turned  still  paler  as  he  looked  with  terrified 
eyes  at  the  passing  of  the  silver  cross  and  the  procession 
of  priests  who  broke  into  a  mournful  chant  as  they  gazed. 


34  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

some  with  aversion  others  with  envy,  at  the  stream  of 
godless  people  who  were  rushing  to  amuse  themselves. 

The  espada  hastened  to  take  off  his  montero.  His 
banderilleros  did  the  same,  with  the  exception  of  El 
Nacional. 

"Curse  you!"  cried  Gallardo,  "Take  off  your  cap, 
rascal." 

He  glared  at  him  as  if  about  to  strike  him,  fully  con- 
vinced, by  some  confused  intuition,  that  this  impiety 
would  bring  down  on  him  the  greatest  misfortunes. 

"All  right,  I'll  take  it  off,"  said  El  Nacional,  with  the 
sulkiness  of  a  thwarted  child,  as  he  saw  the  cross  moving 
off,  "I'll  take  it  off  but  it  is  to  the  dead  man !" 

They  were  obliged  to  stop  for  some  time  to  let  the 
funeral  cortege  pass. 

"Bad  luck!"  murmured  Gallardo,  his  voice  trembling 
with  rage,  "Who  can  have  thought  of  bringing  a  funeral 
across  the  way  to  the  Plaza  ?  Curse  them !  I  said  some- 
thing would  happen  to-day !" 

El  Nacional  smiled,  and  shrugged  his  shoulders. 
"Superstition  and  fanaticism!  God  or  Nature  don't 
trouble  about  these  things!" 

These  words  which  increased  the  irritation  of  Gallardo, 
seemed  to  dispel  the  grave  preoccupation  of  the  other 
toreros,  and  they  began  to  laugh  at  their  companion,  as 
indeed  they  always  did  when  he  aired  his  favourite 
phrase,  "God  or  Nature." 

As  soon  as  the  way  was  clear  the  carriage  resumed  its 
former  speed,  travelling  as  fast  as  the  mules  could  trot 
and  passing  all  the  other  vehicles  which  were  converging 
on  the  Plaza.  On  arriving  there  it  turned  to  the  left, 
making  for  the  door,  named  "de  Caballerizas,"  ^  which 
led  to  the  yards  and  stables,  but  compelled  to  pass  slowly 
through  the  compact  crowd. 

^  'Of  the  stables.' 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  35 

Gallardo  received  another  ovation  as,  followed  by  his 
banderilleros,  he  alighted  from  the  carriage,  pushing  and 
elbowing  his  way  in  order  to  save  his  clothes  from  the 
touch  of  dirty  hands,  smiling  greetings  everywhere  and 
hiding  his  right  hand  which  everybody  wished  to  shake. 

"Make  way,  please,  gentlemen !"     "Many  thanks." 

The  great  courtyard  between  the  main  building  of  the 
Plaza  and  the  boundary  wall  of  its  outbuildings  was  full 
of  people  who,  before  taking  their  seats,  wished  to  get  a 
near  view  of  the  bull-fighters,  whilst  on  horseback, 
mounted  high  above  the  crowd,  could  be  seen  the  picadors 
and  the  Alguaciles  ^  in  their  Seventeenth  Century  cos- 
tumes. 

On  one  side  of  the  courtyard  stood  a  row  of  single- 
storey  brick  buildings,  with  vines  trellised  over  the  doors 
and  pots  of  flowers  in  the  windows.  It  was  quite  a  small 
town  of  offices,  workshops,  stables  and  houses  in  which 
lived  stablemen,  carpenters  and  other  servants  of  the 
bull-ring. 

The  diestro  made  his  way  laboriously  through  the  vari- 
ous groups,  and  his  name  passed  from  lip  to  lip  amidst 
exclamations  of  admiration. 

"Gallardo!"  "Here  is  El  Gallardo!"  "Ole!  Viva 
Espaiia !" 

And  he,  with  no  thought  but  that  of  the  adoration  of 
the  public,  swaggered  along,  serene  as  a  god  and  gay  and 
self-satisfied,  just  as  if  he  were  attending  a  fete  given  in 
his  honour. 

Suddenly  two  arms  were  thrown  round  his  neck  and  at 
the  same  time  a  strong  smell  of  wine  assailed  his  nostrils. 

"A  real  man !  My  beauty !  Three  cheers  for  the 
heroes !" 

It  was  a  man  of  good  appearance,  a  tradesman  who  had 
breakfasted  with  some  friends,  whose  smiling  vigilance  he 
*  Vide  Glossary. 


36  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

thought  he  had  escaped  but  who  were  watching  him  from 
a  short  distance.  He  leant  his  head  on  the  espaoa's 
shoulder  and  let  it  remain  there,  as  though  he  intended 
to  drop  off  into  a  sleep  of  ecstasy  in  that  position.  Gal- 
lardo  pushed  and  the  man's  friends  pulled  and  the  espada 
was  soon  free  of  this  intolerable  embrace,  but  the  tippler, 
finding  himself  parted  from  his  idol,  broke  out  into  loud 
shouts  of  admiration. 

"Ole  for  such  men!  All  nations  of  the  earth  should 
come  and  admire  toreros  like  this,  and  die  of  envy !  They 
may  have  ships,  they  may  have  money,  but  that's  all  rot ! 
They  have  no  bulls  and  no  men  like  this!  Hurrah,  my 
lads!     Long  live  my  country!" 

Gallardo  crossed  a  large  white-washed  hall,  quite  bare 
of  furniture,  where  his  professional  companions  were 
standing  surrounded  by  admiring  groups.  Making  his 
way  through  the  crowd  around  a  door  he  entered  a  small 
dark  and  narrow  room,  at  one  end  of  which  lights  were 
burning.  It  was  the  chapel.  An  old  picture  called  "The 
Virgin  of  the  Dove,"  filled  the  back  of  the  Altar.  On 
the  table  four  tapers  were  burning,  and  several  bunches 
of  dusty  moth-eaten  muslin  flowers  stood  in  common 
pottery  vases. 

The  chapel  was  full  of  people.  The  aficionados  of 
humble  class  assembled  in  it  so  as  to  see  the  great  men 
close  at  hand.  In  the  darkness  some  stood  bareheaded 
in  the  front  row,  whilst  others  sat  on  benches  and  chairs, 
the  greater  part  of  them  turning  their  backs  on  the  Vir- 
gin, looking  eagerly  towards  the  door  to  call  out  a  name 
as  soon  as  the  glitter  of  a  gala  dress  appeared. 

The  banderilleros  and  picadors,  poor  devils  who  were 
going  to  risk  their  lives  the  same  as  the  ''Maestros," 
scarcely  caused  a  whisper  by  their  presence.  Only  the 
most  fervent  aficionados  knew  their  nicknames. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  37 

Presently  there  was  a  prolonged  murmur,  a  name  re- 
peated from  mouth  to  mouth. 

"Fuentes !     It  is  el  Fuentes !" 

The  elegant  torero,  tall  and  graceful,  his  cape  loose 
over  his  shoulder,  walked  up  to  the  Altar,  bending  his 
knee  with  theatrical  affectation.  The  lights  were  reflect- 
ed in  his  gipsy  eyes  and  fell  across  the  fine  agile  kneeling 
figure.  After  he  had  finished  his  prayer  and  crossed  him- 
self he  rose,  walking  backwards  towards  the  door,  never 
taking  his  eyes  off  the  image,  like  a  tenor  who  retires 
bowing  to  his  audience. 

Gallardo  was  more  simple  in  his  piety.  He  entered 
montero  in  hand,  his  cape  gathered  round  him,  walking 
no  less  arrogantly,  but  when  he  came  opposite  the  image, 
he  knelt  with  both  knees  on  the  ground,  giving  himself 
over  entirely  to  his  prayers  and  taking  no  notice  of  the 
hundreds  of  eyes  fixed  on  him.  His  simple  Christian 
soul  trembled  with  fear  and  remorse.  He  prayed  for 
protection  with  the  fervour  of  ignorant  men  who  live  in 
continual  danger  and  who  believe  in  every  sort  of  adverse 
influence  and  supernatural  protection.  For  the  first  time 
in  the  whole  of  that  day  he  thought  of  his  wife  and  his 
mother.  Poor  Carmen  down  in  Seville  waiting  for  his 
telegram!  The  Sefiora  Angustias,  tranquil  with  her 
fowls  at  the  farm  of  La  Rinconada  not  knowing  for  cer- 
tain where  her  son  was  fighting !  .  .  ,  And  he,  here,  with 
that  terrible  presentiment  that  something  would  happen 
that  afternoon !  Virgin  of  the  Dove !  Give  a  little  pro- 
tection !  He  would  be  good,  he  would  forget  "the  rest," 
he  would  live  as  God  commands. 

His  superstitious  spirit  being  comforted  by  this  empty 
repentance,  he  left  the  chapel  still  under  its  influence, 
with  clouded  eyes,  that  did  not  see  the  people  who  ob- 
structed his  way. 

Outside  in  the  room  where  the  toreros  were  waiting  he 


38  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

was  saluted  by  a  clean-shaven  gentleman,  in  black  clothes 
in  which  he  appeared  ill  at  ease. 

"Bad  luck!"  murmured  the  torero  moving  on,  "As 
I  said  before,  something  will  happen  to-day !"  .  .  . 

It  was  the  chaplain  of  the  Plaza,  an  enthusiast  in 
Tauromachia,  who  had  arrived  with  the  Holy  Oils  con- 
cealed beneath  his  coat.  He  was  priest  of  the  suburb  of 
la  Prosperidad  and  for  years  past  had  maintained  a 
heated  controversy  with  another  parish  priest  in  the 
centre  of  ^vladrid  who  claimed  a  better  rijht  to  monop- 
olise the  religious  service  of  the  Plaza.  He  came  to  the 
Plaza  accompanied  by  a  neighbour,  who  served  him  as 
sacristan  in  return  for  a  seat  for  the  corrida. 

On  these  days  he  chose  by  turns  from  amongst  his 
friends  and  proteges  the  one  whom  he  wished  to  favour 
with  the  seat  reser\'ed  for  the  sacristan.  He  hired  a 
smart  carriage,  at  the  expense  of  the  management,  and, 
carrying  under  his  coat  the  sacred  vessel,  started  for  the 
Plaza,  where  two  front  seats  were  kept  for  him  close  to 
the  entrance  for  the  bulls. 

The  priest  entered  the  chapel  with  the  air  of  a  pro- 
prietor scandalised  by  the  behaviour  of  the  pubHc.  x\ll 
had  their  heads  uncovered,  but  they  were  talking  loudly, 
and  some  even  smoking. 

"Caballeros,  this  is  not  a  cafe.  You  will  do  me  the 
favour  of  going  outside.     The  corrida  is  about  to  begin." 

This  news  caused  a  general  exodus,  during  which  the 
priest  took  out  the  hidden  Oils  and  placed  them  in  a 
painted  wooden  box.  He,  too,  having  concealed  his 
sacred  deposit,  hurried  out  in  order  to  reach  his  seat  in 
the  Plaza  before  the  appearance  of  the  cuadrillas. 

The  crowd  had  vanished.  Nobody  was  to  be  seen  in 
the  courtyard  but  men  dressed  in  silk  and  gold  embroid- 
ery, horsemen  in  yellow  with  large  beavers,  Alguaciles  on 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  39 

horseback,  and  the  servants  on  duty  in  their  liveries  of 
blue  and  gold. 

In  the  doorway  called  "De  Caballos,"  under  the  arch 
forming  the  entrance  to  the  Plaza,  the  toreros  formed  up 
for  the  procession  with  the  promptitude  which  comes  of 
constant  practice.  In  front  the  "Maestros,"  some  dis- 
tance behind  them  the  banderilleros,  and  beyond  these 
again,  in  the  courtyard  outside,  the  clattering  rearguard, 
the  stem,  steel-clad  squadron  of  picadors,  redolent  of 
hot  leather  and  manure,  and  mounted  on  skeleton  horses 
with  a  bandage  over  one  eye.  In  the  far  distance,  like 
the  baggage  of  this  army,  fidgeted  the  teams  of  mules 
destined  to  drag  out  the  carcases,  strong,  lively  animals 
with  shining  skins,  their  harness  covered  with  tassels  and 
bells,  and  their  collars  ornamented  with  a  small  national 
flag. 

At  the  other  end  of  the  archway,  above  the  wooden 
barricade  which  closed  the  lower  half,  could  be  seen  a 
shining  patch  of  blue  sky,  the  roof  of  the  Plaza,  and  a 
section  of  the  seats  with  its  compact,  swarming  mass  of 
occupants,  amongst  which  fluttered  fans  and  papers  like 
gaily  coloured  butterflies. 

Through  this  arcade  there  swept  a  strong  breeze,  like 
the  breath  of  an  immense  lung,  and  faint  harmonious 
sounds  floated  on  the  waves  of  air,  betokening  distant 
music,  guessed  at  rather  than  heard. 

Along  the  sides  of  the  archway  could  be  seen  a  row  of 
heads — those  of  the  spectators  on  the  nearest  benches, 
who  peered  over  in  their  anxiety  to  get  the  first  possible 
glimpse  of  the  heroes  of  tlie  day. 

Gallardo  took  his  place  in  line  with  the  other  espadas. 
They  neither  spoke  nor  smiled,  a  grave  inclination  of  the 
head  being  all  the  greeting  that  they  exchanged.  Each 
seemed  wrapped  in  his  own  preoccupation,  letting  his 
thoughts  wander  far  afield,  or,  perhaps,  with  the  vacuity 


40  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

of  deep  emotion,  thinking  of  nothing  at  all.  Outwardly 
this  preoccupation  was  manifested  in  an  apparently  un- 
ending arrangement  and  re-arrangement  of  their  capes — 
spreading  them  over  the  shoulder,  folding  the  ends  round 
the  waist,  or  arranging  them  so  that  under  this  mantle  of 
bright  colours  their  legs,  cased  in  silk  and  gold,  should 
be  free  and  without  encumbrance.  All  their  faces  were 
pale,  not  with  a  dull  pallor,  but  with  the  bright,  hectic, 
moist  shine  of  excitement.  Their  minds  were  in  the 
arena,  as  yet  invisible  to  them,  and  they  felt  the  irresis- 
tible fear  of  things  that  might  be  happening  on  the  other 
side  of  a  wall,  the  terror  of  the  unknown,  the  indefinite 
danger  that  is  felt  but  not  seen.  How  would  this  after- 
noon end? 

From  beyond  the  cuadrillas  was  heard  the  sound  of  the 
trotting  of  two  horses,  coming  along  underneath  the  outer 
arcades  of  the  Plaza.  This  was  the  arrival  of  the  algua- 
ciles  in  their  small  black  capeless  mantles  and  broad  hats 
surmounted  with  red  and  yellow  feathers.  They  had  just 
finished  clearing  the  ring  of  all  the  intruding  crowd  and 
now  came  to  place  themselves  as  advance-guard  at  the 
head  of  the  cuadrillas. 

The  doorways  of  the  arch  were  thrown  wide  open,  as 
also  were  those  of  the  barrier  in  front  of  them.  The 
huge  ring  was  revealed,  the  real  Plaza,  an  immense  cir- 
cular expanse  of  sand  on  which  would  be  enacted  the 
afternoon's  tragedy,  one  which  would  excite  the  feelings 
and  rejoicings  of  fourteen  thousand  spectators.  The  con- 
fused, harmonious  sounds  now  became  louder,  resolving 
themselves  into  lively  reckless  music,  a  noisy,  clanging 
triumphal  march  that  made  the  audience  hip  and  shoulder 
to  its  martial  air.     Forward,  fine  fellows ! 

The  bull-fighters,  blinking  at  the  sudden  change, 
stepped  out  from  darkness  to  light,  from  the  silence  of 
the  quiet  arcade  to  the  roar  of  the  Ring^,  where  the  crowd 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  41 

en  the  tiers  of  benches,  throbbing  with  excitement  and 
curiosity,  rose  to  its  feet  en  masse,  in  order  to  obtain  a 
better  view. 

The  toreros  advanced,  dwarfed  immediately  they  trod 
the  arena,  by  the  immensity  of  their  surroundings.  They 
seemed  hke  briUiant  dolls  on  whose  embroideries  the  sun- 
light flashed  in  iridescent  hues,  and  their  graceful  move- 
ments fired  the  people  with  the  delight  that  a  child  takes 
in  some  marvellous  toy.  The  mad  impulse  which  agitates 
a  crowd,  sending  a  shiver  down  its  backbone  and  giving  it 
goose-creeps  for  no  particular  reason,  affected  the  entire 
Plaza,  Some  applauded,  others,  more  enthusiastic  or 
more  nervous,  shouted,  the  music  clanged,  and  in  the 
midst  of  tliis  universal  tumult,  the  cuadrillas  advanced 
solemnly  and  slowly  from  the  entrance  door  up  to  the 
presidential  chair,  making  up  for  the  shortness  of  their 
step  by  the  graceful  swing  of  their  arms  and  the  sway- 
ing of  their  bodies.  Meanwhile  on  the  circle  of  blue  sky 
above  the  Plaza  fluttered  several  white  pigeons,  terrified 
by  the  roar  which  arose  from  this  crater  of  bricks. 

They  felt  themselves  different  men  as  they  advanced 
over  the  sand.  They  were  risking  their  lives  for  some- 
thing more  than  money.  Their  doubts  and  terrors  of  the 
unknown  had  been  left  outside  the  barricades.  Now  they 
trod  the  arena.  They  were  face  to  face  with  their  public. 
Reality  had  come.  The  longing  for  glory  in  their  bar- 
barous, ignorant  minds,  the  desire  to  excel  their  com- 
rades, the  pride  in  their  own  strength  and  dexterity,  all 
blinded  them,  making  them  forget  all  fears,  and  inspiring 
them  with  the  daring  of  brute  force. 

Gallardo  was  quite  transfigured.  He  drew  himself  up 
as  he  walked,  wishing  to  appear  the  tallest.  He  moved 
with  the  arrogance  of  a  conqueror,  looking  all  round  him 
with  an  air  of  triumph,  as  though  his  two  companions  did 
not  exist.    Everything  was  ,his,  both  the  Plaza  and  the 


42  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

public.  He  felt  himself  at  that  moment  capable  of  kill- 
ing every  bull  alive  on  the  broad  pasture  lands  of  Anda- 
lusia or  Castille.  All  the  applause  was  meant  for  him, 
he  was  quite  sure  of  that.  The  thousands  of  feminine 
eyes,  shaded  by  white  mantillas,  in  the  boxes  or  along  the 
barriers,  were  fixed  on  him  only,  of  that  there  could  be 
no  manner  of  doubt.  The  public  adored  him,  and  while 
he  advanced  smiling  with  pride,  as  though  the  ovation 
were  intended  for  himself  alone,  cast  his  eyes  along  the 
rows  of  seats,  noticing  the  places  where  the  largest  groups 
of  his  partizans  were  massed,  and  ignoring  those  where 
his  comrades'  friends  had  congregated. 

They  saJuted  the  president,  montero  in  hand,  and  then 
the  brilliant  parade  broke  up,  peons  ^  and  horsemen  scat- 
tering in  all  directions.  Whilst  an  alguacil  caught  in  his 
hat  the  key  thrown  to  him  by  the  president,  Gallardo 
walked  towards  the  barrier  behind  which  his  most  en- 
thusiastic supporters  stood,  and  gave  into  their  charge 
his  beautiful  cape  which  was  spread  along  the  edge  of 
the  palisade,  the  sacred  symbol  of  a  faction. 

His  most  enthusiastic  partizans  stood  up,  waving  their 
hands  and  sticks,  to  greet  the  matador,  and  loudly  pro- 
claiming their  hopes.  "Let  us  see  what  the  lad  from 
Seville  will  do!"  .  .  . 

And  he  smiled  as  he  leant  against  the  barrier,  proud  of 
his  strength,  repeating  to  all : 

"Many  thanks !     He  will  do  what  he  can." 

It  was  not  only  his  partizans  who  showed  their  high 
hopes  on  seeing  him ;  eveiy where  he  found  adherents 
amongst  the  crowd,  which  anticipated  deep  excitement 
He  was  a  torero  who  promised  "hule"  ^ — ^according  to  the 
expression  of  the  aficionados,  and  such  "hule"  was  likely 
to  lead  to  a  bed  in  the  Infirmary. 

'  Banderilleros,  Chulos,  etc.,  who  fight  on  foot 
'  Ijt : — excitement 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  43 

Ever}"one  thought  he  was  destined  to  die,  gored  to 
death  in  the  Plaza,  and  for  this  very  reason  they  ap- 
plauded him  with  homicidal  enthusiasm,  with  a  barbarous 
interest,  like  that  of  the  misanthrope,  who  followed  a 
tamer  ever}'where,  awaiting  the  moment  when  he  would 
be  devoured  by  his  wild  beasts. 

Gallardo  laughed  at  the  ancient  aficionados,  grave  Doc- 
tors of  Tauromachia,  who  judged  it  impossible  that  an 
accident  should  happen  if  a  torero  conformed  to  the  rules 
of  the  art.  Rules  forsooth!  .  .  .  He  ignored  them  and 
took  no  trouble  to  learn  them.  Bravery  and  audacity 
only  were  necessar}"  to  ensure  victor}^  Almost  blindly, 
with  no  other  rule  than  his  own  temerity,  no  other  help 
than  his  own  bodily  faculties,  he  had  made  a  rapid  career 
for  himself,  forcing  outbursts  of  wonder  from  the  people 
and  astonishing  them  with  his  mad  courage. 

He  had  not,  like  other  matadors,  risen  by  regular  steps, 
serving  long  years  as  peon  and  banderillero  at  the  "maes- 
tros'  ■'  side.  The  bulls'  horns  caused  him  no  fear. 
"Hunger  gores  worse,"  he  said.  The  great  thing  was  to 
rise  quickly,  and  the  public  had  seen  him  commence  at 
once  as  espada,  and  in  a  fe^v  years  enjoy  an  immense 
popularity. 

It  admired  him  for  the  very  reason  which  made  a 
catastrophe  so  certain.  It  w^as  inflamed  with  a  horrible 
enthusiasm  by  the  blindness  with  which  this  man  defied 
death,  and  paid  him  the  same  care  and  attention  as  are 
paid  to  a  condemned  man  in  the  chapel.  This  torero  was 
not  one  who  held  anytliing  back;  he  gave  them  every- 
thing, including  his  life.  He  was  worth  the  money  he 
cost.  And  the  crowd,  with  the  brutality  of  those  who 
watch  danger  from  a  safe  place,  admired  and  hallooed  on 
the  hero.  The  more  prudent  shrugged  their  shoulders 
regarding  him  as  a  suicide  playing  with  fate,  and  mur- 
mured "as  long  as  it  lasts."  .  . 


44  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Amid  a  clash  of  kettledrums  and  trumpets  the  first  bull 
rushed  out.  Gallardo,  with  his  working  cloak  devoid  of 
ornament  hanging  on  his  arm,  remained  by  the  barrier, 
close  to  the  benches  where  his  partizans  sat,  disdainfully- 
motionless,  as  though  the  eyes  of  the  whole  audience  were 
fixed  on  him.  That  bull  was  for  some  one  else.  He 
would  give  signs  of  existence  when  his  own  bull  came 
out.  But  the  applause  at  the  cloak  play  executed  by  his 
companions,  drew  him  out  of  this  immobility,  and  in  spite 
of  his  intentions  he  joined  in  the  fray,  performing  several 
feats  in  which  he  showed  more  audacity  than  skill.  The 
whole  Plaza  applauded  him,  roused  by  the  delight  they 
felt  at  his  daring. 

When  Fuentes  killed  his  first  bull,  and  went  towards 
the  presidential  chair  saluting  the  crowd,  Gallardo  turned 
paler  than  before,  as  though  any  expression  of  gratifica- 
tion that  was  not  for  him  was  a  studied  insult.  Now  his 
turn  had  come :  they  would  see  great  things.  He  did  not 
know  for  certain  what  they  might  be,  but  he  was  dis- 
posed to  startle  the  public. 

As  soon  as  the  second  bull  came  out,  Gallardo,  thanks 
to  his  mobility  and  his  desire  to  shine,  seemed  to  fill  the 
whole  Plaza.  His  cape  was  constantly  close  to  the  beast's 
muzzle.  A  picador  of  his  own  cuadrilla,  the  one  named 
Potaje,  was  thrown  from  his  horse,  and  lay  helpless  close 
to  the  horns.  The  maestro  seizing  the  fierce  beast's  tail, 
pulled  with  such  herculean  strength,  that  he  obliged  it  to 
turn  round  till  the  dismounted  rider  was  safe.  This  was 
a  feat  that  the  public  applauded  wildly. 

When  the  play  of  the  banderilleros  began,  Gallardo  re- 
mained in  the  passage  between  the  barriers  awaiting  the 
signal  to  kill.  El  Nacional  with  the  darts  in  his  hand 
challenged  the  bull  in  the  centre  of  the  arena.  There 
was  nothing  graceful  in  his  movements,  nor  any  proud 
daring,    "simply    the    question    of    earning   his    bread." 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  45 

Down  in  Seville  he  had  four  little  ones,  who,  if  he  died, 
would  find  no  other  father.  He  would  do  his  duty  and 
nothing  more,  stick  in  his  banderillas  like  a  journeyman 
of  Tauromachia,  not  desiring  applause,  and  trying  to 
avoid  hissing. 

When  he  had  stuck  in  the  pair,  a  few  on  the  vast  tiers 
applauded,  while  others,  alluding  to  his  ideas,  found 
fault  with  the  banderillero  in  chaffing  tones. 

Quit  politics  and  strike  better! 

And  El  Nacional,  deceived  by  the  distance,  heard  these 
shouts,  and  acknowledged  them  smilingly  like  his  master. 

When  Gallardo  leapt  again  into  the  arena,  the  crowd, 
hearing  the  blare  of  trumpets  and  drums  which  an- 
nounced the  final  death  stroke,  became  restless  and 
buzzed  with  excitement.  That  matador  was  their  own, 
now  they  would  see  something  fine. 

He  took  the  muleta  ^  from  the  hands  of  Garabato,  who 
offered  it  to  him  folded  from  inside  the  barrier,  and  drew 
the  rapier,  which  his  servant  also  presented  to  him.  Then 
with  short  steps  he  went  and  stood  in  front  of  the  presi- 
dent's chair,  carrying  his  montero  in  one  hand.  All 
stretched  out  their  necks,  devouring  their  idol  with  their 
eyes,  but  no  one  could  hear  the  "brindis,"  ^  The  proud 
figure  with  its  magnificent  stature,  the  body  thrown  back 
to  give  more  strength  to  his  voice,  produced  the  same 
effect  on  the  masses  as  the  most  eloquent  harangue.  As 
he  ended  his  speech,  giving  a  half  turn  and  throwing  his 
montero  on  the  ground,  the  noisy  enthusiasm  broke  out. 

*  Square  of  red  silk  fastened  to  a  wand — used  to  irritate  the 
bull  and  to  throw  over  his  eyes  as  he  charges. 

'Brindis. — The  matador  has  to  declare  before  the  president  in 
whose  honour — man  or  woman — he  will  kill  the  bull.  There  is 
an  ancient  formula  used :  "I  dedicate  this  bull  to  so  and  so — 
either  I  will  kill  him  or  he  will  kill  me."  He  then  throws  his 
montero  on  the  ground  behind  him  and  fights  the  bull  bare- 
headeu. 


46  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Die  for  the  lad  from  Seville !  Now  they  would  see  real 
sport !  And  the  spectators  looked  at  one  another,  mutely 
promising  each  other  tremendous  happenings.  A  shiver 
ran  over  all  the  rows  of  seats,  as  if  they  awaited  some- 
thing sublime. 

Then  silence  fell  on  the  crowd,  a  silence  so  deep  that 
one  would  have  thought  that  the  Plaza  had  suddenly  be- 
come empty.  The  life  of  thousands  of  people  seemed 
concentrated  in  their  eyes.  No  one  seemed  even  to 
breathe. 

Gallardo  advanced  slowly  towards  the  bull,  carrying 
the  muleta  resting  against  his  stomach  like  a  flag,  and 
with  sword  waving  in  his  other  hand,  swinging  like  a 
pendulum  to  his  step. 

Turning  his  head  for  an  instant,  he  saw  he  was  being 
followed  by  El  Nacional  and  another  peon  of  his  cuad- 
rilla,  their  cloaks  on  their  arms  ready  to  assist  him. 

"Go  out,  everybody!" 

His  voice  rang  out  in  the  silence  of  the  Plaza  reach- 
ing up  to  the  furthest  benches,  and  was  answered  by  a 
roar  of  admiration  .  .  .  "Go  out  everybody !"  .  .  .  He 
had  said  "go  out"  to  everybody  .  .  .  What  a  man! 

He  remained  completely  alone  close  to  the  beast,  and 
instantly  there  was  again  silence.  Very  calmly  he  un- 
rolled the  muleta,  and  spread  it,  advancing  a  few  steps 
at  the  same  time,  till  he  flung  it  almost  on  the  muzzle  of 
the  bull  who  stood  bewildered  and  frightened  at  the 
man's  audacity. 

The  audience  did  not  dare  to  speak,  nor  scarcely  to 
breathe,  but  admiration  flashed  in  their  eyes.  What  a 
man !  He  was  going  up  to  the  very  horns :  .  .  .  He 
stamped  impatiently  on  the  sand  with  one  foot,  inciting 
the  animal  to  attack,  and  the  enormous  mass  of  flesh, 
with  its  sharp  defences,  fell  bellowing  upon  him.  The 
muleta  passed  over  its  horns,  which  grazed  the  tassels  and 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  47 

fringes  of  the  matador's  costume.  He  remained  firm  in 
his  place,  his  only  movement  being  to  throw  his  body 
slightly  back.  A  roar"  from  the  masses  replied  to  this 
pass  of  the  muleta,  "Ole !"  .  .  . 

The  brute  turned,  once  more  attacking  the  man  and  his 
rag,  and  the  pass  was  again  repeated  amid  the  roars  of 
the  audience.  The  bull,  each  time  more  infuriated  by  the 
deception,  again  and  again  attacked  the  fighter  who  re- 
peated the  passes  with  the  muleta,  scarcely  moving  off 
his  ground,  excited  by  the  proximity  of  danger  and  the 
admiring  acclamations  of  the  crowd,  which  seemed  to 
intoxicate  him. 

Gallardo  felt  the  wild  beast's  snorting  close  to  him. 
Its  breath  moist  with  slaver  fell  on  his  face  and  right 
hand.  Becoming  familiar  with  the  feeling  he  seemed  to 
look  on  the  brute  as  a  good  friend  who  was  going  to  let 
himself  be  killed,  to  contribute  to  his  glory. 

At  last  the  bull  remained  quiet  for  a  few  instants  as  if 
tired  of  the  game,  looking  with  eyes  full  of  sombre  re- 
flexion at  this  man  and  his  red  cloth,  suspecting  in  his 
limited  brain  the  existence  of  some  stratagem  that,  by 
attack  after  attack,  would  lead  him  to  his  death. 

Gallardo  felt  the  great  heart-beat  of  his  finest  feats. 
Now  then !  He  caught  the  muleta  with  a  circular  sweep 
of  his  left  hand,  rolling  it  round  the  stick,  and  raised  his 
right  to  the  height  of  his  eyes,  standing  with  the  sword 
bending  down  towards  the  nape  of  the  brute's  neck.  A 
tumult  of  surprised  protest  broke  from  the  crowd :  "Don't 
jtrike!"  .  .  .  shouted  thousands  of  voices:  *'No!  .  .  . 
^sjo!"  . 

It  was  too  soon.  The  bull  was  not  well  placed,  it 
would  charge  and  catch  him.  He  was  acting  outside  all 
rules  of  the  art.  But  what  did  rules  or  life  itself  signify 
to  that  reckless  man !  .  .  . 

Suddenly  he  threw  himself  forward  with  his  sword  at 


48  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

the  same  instant  that  the  beast  fell  upon  him.  The  en- 
counter was  brutal,  savage.  For  an  instant  man  and 
beast  formed  one  confused  mass,  and  thus  advanced  a 
few  paces.  No  one  could  see  who  was  the  conqueror; 
the  man  with  one  arm  and  part  of  his  body  between  the 
two  horns ;  or  the  brute  lowering  his  head  and  fighting  to 
catch  on  those  horns  the  brilliantly  coloured  golden  pup- 
pet which  seemed  to  be  slipping  away  from  him. 

At  last  the  group  separated.  The  muleta  remained  on 
the  ground  like  a  rag,  and  the  fighter,  his  hands  empty, 
emerged  staggering  from  the  impetus  of  the  shock,  till 
some  distance  away  he  recovered  his  equilibrium.  His 
clothes  were  disordered,  and  the  cravat  floating  outside 
the  waistcoat  was  gashed  and  torn  by  the  bull's  horns. 

The  bull  continued  its  rush  with  the  impetus  of  the, 
first  charge.  On  its  broad  neck,  the  red  pommel  of  the 
sword,  buried  up  to  the  hilt  scarcely  could  be  seen.  Sud- 
denly it  stopped  short  in  its  career,  rolling  with  a  pain- 
ful curtseying  motion;  then  folded  its  fore-legs,  bent  its 
head  till  its  bellowing  muzzle  touched  the  sand,  and 
finally  subsided  in  convulsions  of  agony. 

It  seemed  as  though  the  whole  Plaza  were  falling  down, 
as  if  all  its  bricks  were  rattling  against  one  another ;  as  if 
the  crowd  was  going  to  fly  in  panic,  when  all  rose  sud- 
denly to  their  feet,  pale,  trembling,  gesticulating,  waving 
their  arms.  Dead!  What  a  sword  thrust!  .  .  .  They 
had  all  thought  for  a  second,  that  the  matador  was  im- 
paled on  the  bull's  horns,  all  thought  they  would  assur- 
edly see  him  fall  bleeding  on  the  sand,  but  now  they  saw 
him,  standing  there,  still  giddy  from  the  shock,  but  smil- 
ing! .  .  .  The  surprise  and  astonishment  of  it  all  in- 
creased their  enthusiasm. 

"Oh !  the  brute !"  .  .  .  they  roared  from  the  benches, 
not  finding  any  better  word  with  which  to  express  their 
unbounded  astonishment  .  .  .  "What  a  savage !"  .  .  . 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  49 

Hats  flew  into  the  arena.  Overwhelming  rounds  of  ap- 
plause ran  like  a  torrent  of  hail  from  bench  to  bench,  as 
the  matador  advanced  through  the  arena,  following  the 
circle  of  the  barriers,  till  he  arrived  opposite  the  presi- 
dential chair. 

Then  as  Gallardo  opened  his  arms  to  salute  the  presi- 
dent, the  thundering  ovation  redoubled,  all  shouted  claim- 
ing the  honours  of  the  "maestria"  ^  for  the  matador.  "He 
ought  to  be  given  the  ear."  ^  Never  was  the  honour  bet- 
ter deserved."  "Sword-thrusts  like  that  are  seldom  seen," 
and  the  enthusiasm  waxed  even  greater  when  one  of  the 
attendants  of  the  Plaza  presented  him  with  a  dark,  hairy, 
bloody  triangle ;  it  was  the  tip  of  one  of  the  beast's  ears. 

The  third  bull  was  already  in  the  circus,  and  still  the 
ovation  to  Gallardo  continued,  as  if  the  audience  had  not 
recovered  from  its  astonishment,  and  nothing  that  could 
possibly  happen  during  the  rest  of  the  corrida  could  be 
of  the  slightest  interest. 

The  other  toreros,  pale  with  professional  jealousy, 
exerted  themselves  to  attract  the  attention  of  the  public, 
but  the  applause  they  gained  sounded  weak  and  timid 
after  the  outburst  that  had  preceded  it.  The  public 
seemed  exhausted  by  their  former  excess  of  enthusiasm, 
and  only  paid  absent-minded  attention  to  the  fresh  eventi 
unfolding  themselves  in  the  arena. 

Soon  violent  disputes  arose  between  the  rows  of  seats. 

The  supporters  of  the  other  matadors  who  by  this  time 
had  become  calm,  and  had  recovered  from  the  wave  of 
enthusiasm  which  had  mastered  them  in  common  with 
everyone  else,  began  to  justify  their  former  spontaneous 
outburst  by  criticising  Gallardo. 

"Very  brave,"  "very  daring,"  "suicidal,"  but  that  was 

*  Maestria — complete  knowledge. 

^  As  the  fox's  brush  or  otter's  pad  is  given  with  us. 


50  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

not  art.  On  the  other  hand  the  worshippers  of  the  idol 
who  were  even  more  vehement  and  brutal,  and  who  ad- 
mired his  audacity  from  innate  sympathy,  were  rabid 
with  the  rage  of  zealots  who  hear  doubts  cast  on  the 
miracles  of  their  own  particular  saint. 

Various  minor  incidents  which  caused  commotion 
amidst  the  benches  also  distracted  the  attention  of  the 
audience.  Suddenly  there  was  a  commotion  in  some  sec- 
tion of  the  amphitheatre.  Ever}'body  stood  up,  turning 
their  backs  on  the  arena,  and  arms  and  sticks  were  flour- 
ished above  the  sea  of  heads.  The  rest  of  the  audience 
forgot  the  arena,  and  concentrated  their  attention  on  the 
fracas,  and  the  large  numbers  painted  on  the  walls  of  the 
inside  barrier,  which  distinguished  the  blocks  of  seats. 

"A  fight  in  No.  3 !"  they  yelled  joyfully.  "Now  there's 
a  row  in  No.  5 !" 

Finally  the  whole  audience  caught  the  contagion,  got 
excited,  and  stood  up,  each  tr}-ing  to  look  over  his  neigh- 
bour's head,  but  all  they  were  able  to  see  was  the  slow 
ascent  of  the  police,  who  pushed  a  way  for  themselves 
from  bench  to  bench,  and  finally  reached  the  group  where 
the  disturbance  was  going  on. 

"Sit  down  I"  .  .  .  shouted  the  more  peaceable,  wh^ 
were  prevented  from  seeing  the  arena,  where  the  torerof 
were  continuing  their  work. 

TTie  general  tumult  was  gradually  calmed  and  the  rows 
of  heads  round  the  circular  line  of  benches  resumed 
their  previous  regularity-  during  the  progress  of  the  cor- 
rida. But  the  audience  seemed  to  have  its  ners^es  over- 
strained, and  gave  vent  to  its  feelings,  by  uncalled-for 
animosity,  or  contemptuous  silence  towards  certain  of  the 
fighters. 

The  crowd,  exhausted  by  its  previous  outburst  of  emo- 
tion, regarded  all  that  followed  as  insipid,  and  so  diverted 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  51 

its  boredom  by  eating  and  drinking.  The  refreshment 
sellers  of  the  Plaza  walked  round  between  the  barriers, 
throwing  up  the  articles  asked  for  with  marvellous  dex- 
terity. Oranges  flew  like  golden  balls  up  to  the  very 
highest  benches,  in  a  straight  line  from  the  hands  of  the 
seller  to  that  of  the  buyer,  as  if  drawn  by  a  thread. 
Bottles  of  aerated  drinks  were  opened,  and  the  golden 
wine  of  Andalusia  shone  in  the  glasses. 

Soon  a  current  of  curiosity  ran  round  the  seats. 
Fuentes  was  going  to  fix  banderillas  in  his  bull,  and  every- 
one expected  something  extraordinarily  dexterous  and 
graceful.  He  advanced  alone  into  the  midst  of  the  Plaza, 
with  the  banderillas  in  his  hand,  quiet  and  self-possessed, 
moving  slowly,  as  if  he  were  beginning  some  game.  The 
bull  followed  his  movements  with  anxious  eyes,  aston- 
ished to  see  this  man  alone  in  front  of  him,  after  the 
previous  hurly-burly  of  outspread  cloaks,  cruel  pikes 
sticking  into  his  neck,  and  horses  which  placed  them- 
selves in  front  of  his  horns,  as  if  offering  themselves  to 
his  attack. 

The  man  hypnotised  the  beast,  approaching  so  close  as 
even  to  touch  his  pole  with  the  banderillas.  Then  with 
short  tripping  steps  he  ran  away,  pursued  by  the  bull, 
which  followed  him  as  though  fascinated,  to  the  opposite 
end  of  the  Plaza.  The  animal  seemed  cowed  by  the 
fighter,  and  obeyed  his  every  movement,  until  at  last, 
thinking  the  game  had  lasted  long  enough,  the  man 
opened  his  arms  with  a  dart  in  either  hand,  drew  up  his 
graceful  slim  figure  on  tip-toe,  and  advancing  towards 
the  bull  with  majestic  tranquillity,  fixed  the  coloured 
darts  in  the  neck  of  the  surprised  animal. 

Three  times  he  performed  this  feat,  amid  the  acclama- 
tions of  the  audience.  Those  who  thought  themselves 
"connoisseurs"  now  had  their  revenge  for  the  explosion 


52 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


of  admiration  provoked  by  Gallardo.  This  was  what  a 
true  torero  should  be !    This  was  real  art ! 

Gallardo  stood  by  the  barrier,  wiping  the  sweat  from 
his  face  with  a  towel  handed  to  him  by  Garabato.  Af- 
terwards he  drank  some  water,  and  turned  his  back  on 
the  circus,  so  as  not  to  see  the  prowess  of  his  rival. 
Outside  the  Plaza  he  esteemed  his  rivals  with  the  fra- 
ternity established  by  danger ;  but  once  they  trod  the 
arena  they  all  became  his  enemies  and  their  triumphs 
pained  him  like  insults.  This  general  enthusiasm  for 
Fuentes  which  obscured  his  own  great  triumphs  seemed 
to  him  like  robbery.  On  the  appearance  of  the  fifth  bull, 
which  was  his,  he  leapt  into  the  arena,  burning  to  astonish 
everybody  by  his  prowess. 

If  a  picador  fell  he  spread  his  cloak  and  drew  the  bull 
to  the  other  end  of  the  arena,  bewildering  it  with  a  suc- 
cession of  cloak  play  that  left  the  beast  motionless.  Then 
Gallardo  would  touch  it  on  the  muzzle  with  one  foot,  or 
would  take  off  his  montero  and  lay  it  between  the  ani- 
mal's horns.  Again  and  again  he  took  advantage  of  its 
stupefaction  and  exposed  his  stomach  in  an  audacious 
challenge,  or  knelt  close  to  it  as  though  about  to  lie 
down  beneath  its  nose. 

Under  their  breath  the  old  aficionados  muttered  "mon- 
key tricks !"  "Buffooneries  that  would  not  have  been 
tolerated  in  former  days !"  .  .  .  But  amidst  the  general 
shouts  of  approval  they  were  obliged  to  keep  their  opin- 
ion to  themselves. 

When  the  signal  for  the  banderillas  was  given,  the  au- 
dience was  amazed  to  see  Gallardo  take  the  darts  from 
El  Nacional,  and  advance  with  them  towards  the  bull. 
There  was  a  shout  of  protest.  "He  with  the  banderil- 
las!" .  .  .  They  all  knew  his  failing  in  that  respect. 
Banderilla  play  was  only  for  those  who  had  risen  in  their 
career  step  by  step,who  before  arriving  at  being  matadors 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  53 

had  been  banderilleros  for  many  years  by  the  side  of 
their  masters,  and  Gallardo  had  begun  at  the  other  end, 
killing  bulls  from  the  time  he  first  began  in  the  Plaza. 

"No !  No !"  shouted  the  crowd. 

Doctor  Ruiz  yelled  and  thumped  inside  the  barrier. 

"Leave  that  alone,  lad!  You  know  well  enough  what 
is  wanted.     Kill!" 

But  Gallardo  despised  his  audience,  and  was  deaf  to  its 
advice  when  his  daring  impulses  came  over  him.  In  the 
midst  of  the  din  he  went  straight  up  to  the  bull,  and 
before  it  moved — Zas !  he  stuck  in  the  banderillas.^  The 
pair  were  out  of  place  and  badly  driven  in.  One  of  them 
fell  out  with  the  animal's  start  of  surprise,  but  this  did  not 
signify.  With  the  tolerance  that  a  crowd  always  has  for 
its  idol  excusing,  even  justifying,  its  shortcomings,  the 
spectators  watched  this  daring  act  smilingly.  Gallardo» 
rendered  still  more  audacious,  took  a  second  pair  of  ban- 
derillas  and  stuck  them  in,  regardless  of  the  warnings  of 
those  who  feared  for  his  life.  This  feat  he  repeated  a 
third  time,  badly,  but  with  such  dash,  that  what  would 
have  provoked  hisses  for  another,  produced  only  explo- 
sions of  admiration  for  him.  "What  a  man !  How  luck 
helped  that  fearless  man !"  .  .  . 

The  bull  carried  four  banderillas  instead  of  six,  and 
those  were  so  feebly  planted  that  it  scarcely  seemed  to 
feel  the  discomfort. 

"He  is  still  fresh !"  *  shouted  the  aficionados  from  the 
benches,  alluding  to  the  bull,  while  Gallardo  with  his 
montero  on  his  head,  grasping  rapier  and  muleta  in  his 
hands,  advanced  towards  him,  proud  and  calm,  trusting 
to  his  lucky  star. 

*The  banderillas  ought  to  be  evenly  and  symmetrically  placed 
in  pairs — three  pairs  is  the  proper  complement 

'  Term  applied  to  a  bull  which,  after  much  punishment,  b  still 
plucky   and    strong. 


"54  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"Out — all  of  you !"  he  cried  again. 

He  turned  his  head,  feeling  that  some  one  was  re- 
maining close  to  him  regardless  of  his  orders.  It  was 
Fuentes  a  few  steps  behind  him  who  had  followed  him 
with  his  cloak  on  his  arm  pretending  not  to  have  heard, 
but  ready  to  rush  to  his  assistance,  as  if  he  foresaw  some 
accident. 

''Leave  me,  Antonio,"  said  Gallardo  half  angrily,  and 
yet  respectfully,  as  if  he  were  speaking  to  an  elder 
brother. 

His  manner  was  such  that  Fuentes  shrugged  his  shoul- 
ders disclaiming  all  responsibility.  Turning  his  back 
he  moved  slowly  away,  certain  that  he  would  be  sud- 
denly required. 

Gallardo  spread  his  cloth  on  the  very  head  of  the  wild 
beast,  which  at  once  attacked  it.  A  pass  "Ole!"  roared 
the  enthusiasts.  The  animal  turned  suddenly,  throwing 
itself  again  on  the  torero  with  a  violent  toss  of  its  head 
that  tore  the  muleta  out  of  his  hand.  Finding  himself 
disarmed  and  attacked  he  was  obliged  to  run  for  the 
barrier,  but  at  this  instant  Fuentes'  cloak  diverted  the 
animal's  charge.  Gallardo,  who  guessed  during  his 
flight  the  cause  of  the  bull's  sudden  distraction,  did  not 
leap  the  barrier,  but  sat  on  the  step  and  there  remained 
some  moments  watching  his  enemy  a  few  paces  off.  His 
flight  ended  in  applause  of  this  display  of  calmness. 

He  recovered  his  muleta  and  rapier,  carefully  re-ar- 
ranged the  red  cloth,  and  once  again  placed  himself  in 
front  of  the  brute's  head,  but  this  time  not  so  calmly. 
The  lust  of  slaughter  dominated  him,  an  intense  desire 
to  kill  as  soon  as  possible  the  animal  which  had  forced 
him  to  fly  in  the  sight  of  thousands  of  admirers. 

He  scarcely  moved  a  step.  Thinking  that  the  decisive 
moment  had  come  he  squared  himself,  the  muleta  low, 
and  the  pommel  of  the  rapier  raised  to  his  eyes. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  55 

Again  the  audience  protested,  fearing  for  his  life. 

"Don't  strike!    Stop!"  .  .  .  "O  .  .  h!" 

An  exclamation  of  horror  shook  the  whole  Plaza;  a 
spasm  which  made  all  rise  to  their  feet,  their  eyes  start- 
ing, whilst  the  women  hid  their  faces,  or  convulsively 
clutched  at  the  arm  nearest  them. 

As  the  matador  struck,  the  sword  glanced  on  a  bone. 
This  mischance  retarded  his  escape,  and  caught  by  one  of 
the  horns  he  was  hooked  up  by  the  middle  of  his  body, 
and  despite  his  weight  and  strength  of  muscle,  this  well- 
built  man  was  lifted,  was  twirled  about  on  its  point  like 
a  helpless  dummy  until  the  powerful  beast  with  a  toss  of 
its  head  sent  him  flying  several  yards  away.  The  torero 
fell  with  a  thump  on  the  sand  with  his  limbs  spread  wide 
apart,  just  like  a  frog  dressed  up  in  silk  and  gold. 

"It  has  killed  him!"  "He  is  gored  in  the  stomach!'* 
they  yelled  from  the  seats. 

But  Gallardo  picked  himself  up  from  among  the 
medley  of  cloaks  and  men  which  rushed  to  his  rescue. 
With  a  smile  he  passed  his  hands  over  his  body,  and  then 
shrugged  his  shoulders  to  show  he  was  not  hurt.  Noth- 
ing but  the  force  of  the  blow  and  a  sash  in  rags.  The 
horn  had  only  torn  the  strong  silk  belt. 

He  turned  to  pick  up  his  "killing  weapons."  ^  None 
of  the  spectators  sat  down,  as  they  guessed  that  the  next 
encounter  would  be  brief  and  terrible.  Gallardo  ad- 
vanced towards  the  bull  with  a  reckless  excitement,  as 
if  he  discredited  the  powers  of  its  horns  now  he  had 
emerged  unhurt.  He  was  determined  to  kill  or  to  die. 
There  must  be  neither  delay  nor  precautions.  It  must 
be  either  the  bull  or  himself!  He  saw  everything  red 
just  as  if  his  eyes  were  bloodshot,  and  he  only  heard,  like 
a  distant  sound  from  the  other  world,  the  shouts  of  the 
people  who  implored  him  to  keep  calm. 
*  Trastos  de  Matar. 


56  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  only  made  two  passes  with  the  help  of  a  cloak 
which  lay  near  him,  and  then  suddenly  quick  as  thought 
like  a  spring  released  from  its  catch  he  threw  himself  on 
the  bull,  planting  a  thrust,  as  his  admirers  said,  "like 
lightning."  He  thrust  his  arm  in  so  far,  that  as  he 
drew  back  from  between  the  horns,  one  of  them  grazed 
him,  sending  him  staggering  several  steps.  But  he  kept 
his  feet,  and  the  bull,  after  a  mad  rush,  fell  at  the  op- 
posite side  of  the  Plaza,  with  its  legs  doubled  beneath  it 
and  its  poll  touching  the  sand,  until  the  "puntillero"  ^ 
came  to  give  the  final  dagger  thrust. 

The  crowd  seemed  to  go  off  its  head  with  delight.  A 
splendid  corrida!  All  were  surfeited  with  excitement. 
"That  man  Gallardo  didn't  steal  their  cash,  he  paid  back 
their  entrance  money  with  interest."  The  aficionados 
would  have  enough  to  keep  them  talking  for  three  days 
at  their  evening  meetings  in  the  Cafe.  What  a  brave 
fellow!  What  a  savage!  And  the  most  enthusiastic 
looked  all  around  them  in  a  fever  of  pugnacity  to  find 
anyone  that  disagreed  with  them. 

"He's  the  finest  matador  in  the  world !  ...  If  anyone 
dares  to  deny  it,  I'm  here,  ready  for  him." 

The  rest  of  the  corrida  scarcely  attracted  any  atten- 
tion. It  all  seemed  insipid  and  colourless  after  Gallardo*s 
great  feats. 

When  the  last  bull  fell  in  the  arena,  a  swarm  of  boys, 
low  class  hangers-on,  and  bull-ring  apprentices  invaded 
the  circus.  They  surrounded  Gallardo,  and  escorted  him 
in  his  progress  from  the  president's  chair  to  the  door  of 
exit.  They  pressed  round  him,  anxious  to  shake  his 
hands,  or  even  to  touch  his  clothes,  till  finally  the  wildest 
spirits,  regardless  of  the  blows  of  El  Nacional  and  the 
other  banderilleros,  seized  the  "Maestro"  by  the  legs, 
and  hoisting  him  on  their  shoulders,  carried  him  in  tri- 
*A  man  who  finishes  the  bull  with  a  dagger  thrust. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  57 

umph  round  the  circus  and  galleries  as  far  as  the  out- 
buildings of  the  Plaza. 

Gallardo  raising  his  montero  saluted  the  groups  who 
cheered  his  progress.  With  his  gorgeous  cape  around 
him  he  let  himself  be  carried  like  a  god,  erect  and  mo- 
tionless, above  the  sea  of  Cordovan  hats  and  Madrid 
caps,  whence  issued  enthusiastic  rounds  of  cheers. 

When  he  was  seated  in  his  carriage,  passing  down  the 
Calle  de  Alcala,  hailed  by  the  crowds  who  had  not  seen 
the  corrida  but  who  had  already  heard  of  his  triumphs, 
a  smile  of  pride,  of  delight  in  his  own  strength,  illumi- 
nated his  face  perspiring  and  pale  with  excitement.    . 

El  Nacional  still  anxious  about  his  Master's  accident 
and  terrible  fall,  asked  if  he  was  in  pain,  and  whethe^ 
Doctor  Ruiz  should  be  summoned, 

"No,  it  was  only  a  caress,  nothing  more  .  .  .  The  bull 
that  can  kill  me  is  not  born  yet." 

But  as  though  in  the  midst  of  his  pride  some  remem- 
brance of  his  former  weakness  had  surged  up,  and  he 
thought  he  saw  a  sarcastic  gleam  in  El  Nacional's  eye, 
he  added : 

"Those  feelings  come  over  me  before  I  go  to  the  Plaza, 
....  Something  like  women's  fancies.  You  are  not 
far  wrong  Sabastian.  What's  your  saying?  ....  "God 
or  Nature";  that's  it.  Neither  God  or  Nature  meddle 
with  bull-fighting  affairs.  Every  one  comes  out  of  it  as 
best  he  can,  by  his  own  skill  or  his  own  courage,  there 
is  no  protection  to  be  had  from  either  earth  or  heaven. 
.  .  .  You  have  talents,  Sebastian;  you  ought  to  hare 
studied  for  a  profession." 

In  the  optimism  of  his  triumph  he  regarded  the  ban- 
derillero  as  a  sage,  quite  forgetting  the  laughter  with 
which  at  other  times  he  had  always  greeted  his  very 
involved  reasonings. 

On  arriving  at  his  lodging  he  found  a  crowd  of  ad- 


58  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

mirers  in  the  lobby  waiting  to  embrace  him.  His  ex- 
ploits, to  judge  from  their  hyperbolic  language,  had 
become  quite  different,  so  much  did  their  conversation 
exaggerate  and  distort  them,  even  during  the  short  drive 
from  the  Plaza  to  the  hotel 

Upstairs  he  found  his  room  full  of  friends.  Gentle- 
men who  called  him  '*tu"  and  who  imitated  the  rustic 
speech  of  the  peasantry,  shepherds,  herdsmen,  and  such 
like,  slapping  him  on  the  back  and  saying,  "You  were 
splendid  .  .  .  absolutely  first  class." 

Gallardo  freed  himself  from  this  warm  reception,  and 
went  out  into  the  passage  with  Garabato. 

"Go  and  send  off  the  telegram  home.  You  know — 
'nothing  new.' " 

Garabato  excused  himself,  he  wished  to  help  his  master 
to  undress.  The  hotel  people  would  undertake  to  send 
off  the  wire. 

"No :  I  want  you  to  do  it.  I  will  wait  .  .  .  There's 
another  telegram  too  that  you  must  send.  You  know 
for  whom  it  is — for  that  lady,  for  Dona  Sol  .  .  .  Also 
'nothing  new.'  '* 


CHAPTER  II 

When"  the  husband  of  Sefiora  Angustias  died  the 
Senor  Juan  Gallardo,  an  excellent  cobbler  long  established 
under  a  doorway  in  the  suburb  de  la  Feria,  she  wept  as 
disconsolately  as  was  appropriate  to  the  event,  but  at 
the  same  time  in  the  bottom  of  her  heart,  she  felt  the 
comfort  of  one  who  rests  after  a  long  march,  and  lays 
down  an  overwhelming  burden. 

"Poor  dear  soul!  God  has  him  in  His  glory!  So 
good !  ...  so  hard  working !"  .  .  . 

During  the  twenty  years  of  their  life  together,  he  had 
not  given  her  more  troubles  than  those  endured  by  the 
other  women  in  the  suburb.  Of  the  three  pesetas  that, 
one  day  with  another,  he  earned  by  his  work,  he  gave 
one  to  the  Sefiora  Angustias  for  the  maintenance  of  the 
house  and  the  family,  reserving  the  other  two  for  the 
up-keep  of  his  own  person,  and  the  expenses  of  the 
"representacions."  ^  He  must  respond  to  the  civilities  of 
his  friends  when  they  invited  him  to  drink  a  glass,  and 
the  wine  of  Andalusia,  although  it  is  the  glory  of  God, 
costs  dear.  Besides  he  must  inevitably  go  to  the  bull- 
fights, for  a  man  who  neither  drinks  nor  attends  corridas 
.  .  .  why  is  he  in  the  world  at  all?  .  .  . 

The  Sefiora  Angustias,  left  with  her  two  children,  En- 
camacion  and  Juan,  had  to  sharpen  her  wits  and  develop 
a  multiplicity  of  talents  to  carry  the  family  along.  She 
worked  as  charwoman  in  the  wealthiest  houses  in  the 
suburb,  sewed  for  the  neighbours,  mended  clothes  and 
laces  for  a  certain  pawnbroking  friend  of  hers,  made 

^i£.  buH-fights,  etc. 
59 


60  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

cigarettes  for  gentlemen,  availing  herself  of  the  dex- 
terity acquired  in  her  youth  when  the  Senor  Juan,  an 
ardent  and  wheedling  lover,  used  to  wait  for  her  at  the 
entrance  of  the  Tobacco  factory. 

She  never  had  to  complain  of  infidelities  or  bad  treat- 
ment on  the  part  of  the  defunct.  On  Saturdays  when 
he  returned  to  the  house  in  the  small  hours  of  the  night, 
tipsy,  supported  by  his  friends,  happiness  and  tender- 
ness came  with  him.  The  Senora  Angustias  was  obliged 
forcibly  to  push  him  in,  for  he  persisted  in  remaining 
at  the  door,  clapping  his  hands,  and  chanting  doleful  love 
songs  in  a  drivelling  voice,  all  in  praise  of  his  volumi- 
nous companion.  And  when  at  last  the  door  was  closed 
behind  him,  and  the  neighbours  deprived  of  a  source 
of  amusement,  the  Seiior  Juan,  in  the  fullness  of  his 
drunken  sentimentality  would  insist  on  seeing  the  little 
ones,  kissing  them  and  wetting  them  with  huge  tears,  all 
the  while  chanting  his  love  songs  in  honour  of  the  Senora 
Angustias  (Ole!  The  best  woman  in  the  world!)  and 
the  good  woman  ended  by  relaxing  her  frown  and  laugh- 
ing, while  she  undressed  him,  and  petted  him  like  a  sick 
^hild. 

This  was  his  only  vice.  Poor  dear !  ...  of  women  or 
gambling  there  was  never  a  sign.  His  selfishness  in  going 
well  dressed  while  his  family  were  in  rags,  and  the  in- 
equality in  the  division  of  the  proceeds  of  his  work,  were 
compensated  for  by  generous  treats.  The  Senora  An- 
gustias remembered  with  pride  how  on  the  great  holi- 
days Juan  made  her  put  on  her  Manila  silk  shawl,  the 
wedding  mantilla,  and  with  the  children  in  front  walked 
by  her  side  in  a  white  Cordovan  sombrero,  with  a  silver 
headed  stick,  taking  a  turn  through  las  Delicias,  ^  looking 
just  like  a  family  of  tradespeople  of  the  Calle  de  las 
Sierpes.  On  the  days  of  cheap  bull-fights  he  would  treat 
'  The  lovely  gardens  by  the  GuadalquivLr  at  Seville. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  6i 

her  magnificently  before  going  to  the  Plaza,  offering  her 
a  glass  of  Manzanilla  in  La  Campana,  or  in  a  cafe  of 
the  Plaza  Nueva. 

This  happy  time  was  now  nothing  but  a  faded  though 
pleasant  recollection  in  the  poor  woman's  memory. 

Sefior  Juan  became  ill  of  consumption,  and  for  two 
years  his  wife  had  to  nurse  him,  working  harder  than 
ever  at  her  various  jobs  to  make  up  for  the  peseta  that 
her  husband  formerly  gave  her.  Finally  he  died  in  the 
hospital,  resigned  to  his  fate,  having  come  to  the  con- 
clusion that  life  was  worth  nothing  without  bulls  and 
Manzanilla.  His  last  looks  of  love  and  gratitude  were 
for  his  wife,  as  though  he  were  crying  out  with  his  eyes, 
"Ole!  the  best  woman  in  the  world!"  .  .  . 

When  the  Seiiora  Angustias  was  left  alone,  her  situa- 
tion became  no  worse;  on  the  contrary,  she  was  much 
less  hampered  in  her  movements,  freed  from  the  man 
who  in  the  last  two  years  of  his  life  had  weighed  more 
heavily  on  her  than  all  the  rest  of  the  family.  Being  a 
woman  of  prompt  and  energetic  action,  she  immediately 
struck  out  a  line  for  her  children.  Encamacion,  who  was 
now  seventeen,  went  to  the  Tobacco  factory,  where  her 
mother  was  able  to  introduce  her,  thanks  to  her  relations 
with  certain  friends  of  her  youth,  who  were  now  over- 
seers. Juanillo,  who  from  his  babyhood  had  spent  his 
days  under  the  doorway  in  the  suburb  de  la  Feria,  watch- 
ing his  father  work,  should  become  a  shoemaker,  by  the 
will  of  Senora  Angustias. 

She  took  him  away  from  school,  where  he  had  only 
learnt  to  read  very  badly,  and  at  twelve  years  old  he  was 
apprenticed  to  one  of  the  best  shoemakers  in  Seville. 

Now  commenced  the  martyrdom  of  the  poor  woman. 
Ay!  that  urchin.  The  son  of  such  honoured  parents! 
.  .  .  Almost  every  day  instead  of  going  to  his  master's 
shop,  he  would  go  to  the  slaughter-house  with  certain 


62  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ragamuffins,  who  had  their  meeting  place  on  a  bench  in 
the  Alameda  de  Hercules,  and  for  the  amusement  of 
shepherds  and  slaughtermen,  would  venture  to  throw  a 
cloak  before  the  oxen,  frequently  getting  knocked  over 
and  trampled.  The  Sefiora  Angustias,  who  watched 
many  nights  needle  in  hand,  so  that  her  son  should  go 
decently  clad  to  the  workshop  in  clean  clothes,  would 
find  him  at  the  house  door,  afraid  to  come  in,  but  from 
the  extremity  of  his  hunger  equally  afraid  to  run  away, 
with  his  trousers  torn,  his  jacket  filthy,  and  bruises  and 
grazes  on  his  face. 

To  the  bruises  of  the  treacherous  oxen  would  be  added 
his  mother's  blows  and  beatings  with  a  broomstick:  but 
the  hero  of  the  slaughter-house  endured  everything,  as 
long  as  he  could  get  his  poor  pittance,  "Beat  me,  but  give 
me  something  to  eat,"  and  with  an  appetite  sharpened  by 
the  violent  exercise,  he  would  swallow  the  hard  bread, 
the  weevilled  beans,  the  putrefied  salt  cod,  all  the  dam- 
aged goods  that  the  thrifty  woman  found  in  the  shops, 
which  enabled  her  to  maintain  the  family  on  very  little 
money. 

Busy  all  day  scrubbing  the  floors  of  other  people's 
houses,  it  was  only  now  and  again  in  the  evenings  that 
she  was  able  to  look  after  her  son,  going  to  his  master's 
shop  to  enquire  about  the  apprentice's  progress.  When 
she  returned  from  the  shoemaker's  she  was  usually  pant- 
ing with  rage,  promising  herself  to  administer  the  most 
stupendous  punishments  in  order  to  correct  the  rascal. 

On  most  days  he  never  went  near  the  shop  at  all.  He 
spent  the  mornings  at  the  slaughter-house,  and  in  the 
evenings  formed  one  of  a  group  of  other  vagabonds  at 
the  entrance  of  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,  prowling  round 
the  groups  of  toreros  without  contracts,  who  assembled 
in  La  Campana,  dressed  in  new  clothes  with  spick  and 
span  hats,  and  scarcely  a  peseta  between  them  in  their 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  63 

pockets,  each  one  boasting  of  his  own  imaginary  ex- 
ploits. 

Juanillo  viewed  them  as  creatures  of  amazing  superior- 
ity, he  envied  their  fine  carriage,  and  the  coolness  with 
which  they  ogled  the  women.  The  idea  that  each  one  of 
those  men  had  in  his  house  a  set  of  silk  clothes  em- 
broidered with  gold,  and  being  dressed  in  these  would 
march  past  before  the  crowd  to  the  sound  of  music,  pro- 
duced a  shiver  of  respect. 

The  son  of  Sefiora  Angustias  was  known  to  all  his 
ragged  companions  as  "Zapaterin,"  ^  and  he  seemed  de- 
lighted at  having  a  nickname,  like  almost  all  the  great 
men  who  appeared  in  the  circus.  Everything  must  have 
a  beginning.  Round  his  neck  he  wore  a  red  handkerchief 
filched  from  his  sister,  and  from  beneath  his  cap  the 
hair  fell  over  his  ears  in  long  locks,  which  he  smoothed 
with  saliva.  He  wanted  to  have  his  drill  blouses  made 
short  to  the  waist  with  many  pleats,  his  trousers,  old 
remains  of  his  father's  wardrobe,  high  in  the  waist,  full 
in  the  legs,  well  fitting  over  the  hips;  and  he  wept  with 
humiliation  when  his  mother  would  not  give  in  to  these 
requirements. 

A  cape !  Oh !  to  possess  a  fighting  cape,  not  to  have  to 
implore  the  loan  of  the  coveted  garment  for  a  few  mo- 
ments from  others  more  fortunate  than  himself!  .  .  . 
In  a  small  room  in  their  house  lay  an  old  empty  mattress 
from  which  Sefiora  Angustias  had  sold  the  wool  in  days 
of  distress.  The  Zapaterin  spent  one  morning  shut  up 
in  that  room,  taking  advantage  of  his  mother's  absence, 
who  was  working  that  day  at  a  canon's  house.  With  the 
ingenuity  of  a  ship-wrecked  man,  left  to  his  own  re- 
sources on  a  desert  island,  who  has  to  make  everything 
for  himself,  he  cut  out  a  fighting  cape  from  the  damp 
and  ravelled  linen.  Afterwards  he  boiled  in  a  pipkin  a 
*L,ittle  shoemaker. 


64  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

handful  of  red  aniline  which  he  had  bought  at  a  drug- 
gists, and  dipped  the  old  linen  in  the  dye.  Then  Juanillo 
looked  at  the  result  of  his  work.  A  cape  of  the  most 
brilliant  scarlet  which  would  arouse  many  envies  at 
the  *'capeas"  in  different  villages!  ...  It  only  wanted 
drying.  So  he  hung  it  in  the  sun  among  the  neighbours' 
white  clothes.  The  wind  waving  the  dripping  rag,  spotted 
the  neighbouring  garments,  and  a  chorus  of  maledictions 
and  threats,  of  clenched  fists,  and  mouths  uttering  the 
most  abusive  words  against  him  and  his  mother,  obliged 
the  Zapaterin  to  seize  his  cape  of  glory  and  bolt;  his 
hands  and  face  covered  with  red,  as  if  he  had  just  com- 
mitted a  murder. 

The  Sefiora  Angustias  was  a  strong  woman,  obese  and 
mustachioed,  who  feared  no  man,  and  compelled  respect 
from  other  women  by  her  energetic  determination,  but 
with  her  son  she  was  weak  and  soft-hearted.  What  could 
she  do  ?  .  .  .  She  had  laid  violent  hands  on  every  part  of 
the  boy's  body,  and  broom  sticks  had  been  broken  with 
no  apparent  result.  That  cursed  one,  said  she,  had  the 
hide  of  a  dog.  Accustomed  out  of  the  house  to  the 
tremendous  butting  of  the  calves,  the  cruel  tramplings 
of  the  cows,  to  the  sticks  of  the  herdsmen  and  slaughter- 
men, who  thrashed  the  tauric  aspirants  without  mercy, 
his  mother's  blows  seemed  a  natural  event,  a  continuation 
of  his  out-door  life  prolonged  into  his  family  life,  which 
he  accepted  without  the  slightest  intention  of  amendment, 
as  a  fine  he  had  to  pay  in  return  for  food.  So  he  gnawed 
the  hard  bread  with  starving  gluttony,  while  the  mater- 
nal blows  and  maledictions  rained  on  his  shoulders. 

As  soon  as  his  hunger  was  satisfied  he  ran  away  from 
the  house,  availing  himself  of  the  liberty  perforce  left 
by  Sefiora  Angustias,  who  was  absent,  busy  at  her  tasks. 

In  La  Campana,  the  venerable  agora  of  tauric  gossip, 
where  all  the  great  news  of  the  "aficion"  circulated,  he 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  65 

got  tidings  from  his  friends  which  made  him  tremble 
with  delight. 

"Zapaterin,  there  is  a  corrida  to-morrow.'* 

The  country  villages  celebrated  the  feast-day  of  their 
patron  saint  by  "capeas"  of  already  ^  tried  bulls,  and  there 
the  young  toreros  walked,  in  the  hope  of  being  able  to 
say  on  their  return,  that  they  had  spread  their  cloaks  in 
the  celebrated  Plazas  of  Aznalcollar,  Bollullos  or  Mai- 
rena.  They  would  begin  their  journey  at  night,  with 
their  cloaks  over  their  shoulders  if  it  were  summer,  or 
wrapped  round  them  if  it  were  winter,  their  stomachs 
empty,  talking  all  the  time  of  bulls. 

If  their  tramp  lasted  several  days  they  would  camp 
on  the  ground,  or  be  admitted  out  of  charity  to  the  hay- 
loft of  some  inn.  Alas !  for  the  grapes,  the  melons  and 
the  figs  they  came  across  on  their  way  in  the  warm  sea- 
son. Their  only  anxiety  was  lest  some  other  party,  some 
other  cuadrilla  should  have  had  the  same  inspiration,  and 
would  arrive  in  the  town  before  them,  thus  establishing 
a  rough  competition. 

When  they  came  to  the  end  of  their  journey,  their 
brows  dusty  and  their  mouths  parched,  tired  and  foot 
weary  from  the  tramp,  they  presented  themselves  before 
the  alcalde,  and  the  boldest  among  them,  who  fulfilled 
the  functions  of  director  spoke  of  the  merits  of  the 
troup,  who  thought  themselves  lucky  if  municipal  gen- 
erosity lodged  them  in  the  inn  stables,  and  gave  them  in 
addition  an  "olla"  ^  which  was  emptied  in  a  few  seconds. 

In  the  square  of  the  town,  enclosed  with  carts  and 
boarded  scaffolding,  old  bulls  would  be  loosed,  veritable 
castles  of  flesh,  covered  with  seams  and  scars,  with  enor- 
mous sharp  horns,  brutes  that  for  many  years  had  been 
baited  at  all  the  holidays  in  the  province,  venerable  ani- 

*  Toros  corridas. 

*  011a— stew. 


66  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

mals  who  "knew  Latin."  ^  Their  cunning  was  so  great 
that  accustomed  to  the  perpetual  baiting  they  were  in  the 
secrets  of  all  the  possibilities  of  the  fight.  The  boys  of 
the  town  pricked  these  beasts  from  a  safe  place,  and  the 
people  derived  more  amusement  from  the  "toreros"  from 
Seville  even  than  from  the  bull.  The  youngsters  spread 
their  cloaks  with  trembling  legs,  but  their  hearts  com- 
forted by  the  weight  in  their  stomachs.  There  was  great 
delight  among  the  crowd  when  any  one  of  them  was 
knocked  over ;  and  when  any  lad  among  them  in  sudden 
terror  took  refuge  behind  the  palisades,  the  peasant  bar- 
barians received  him  with  insults,  striking  the  hands 
clutching  hold  of  the  wood,  and  thrashing  him  on  the 
legs  to  make  him  jump  again  into  the  Plaza.  "Arre, 
coward !  show  your  face  to  the  bull.     Qieat !" 

Sometimes  one  of  the  "diestros"  would  be  carried  out 
of  the  Plaza  by  four  of  his  companions,  pale  with  the 
whiteness  of  paper,  his  eyes  glassy,  his  head  hanging, 
and  his  breast  heaving  like  a  broken  bellows.  The  barber 
would  arrive,  reassuring  them  all  as  he  saw  no  blood,  it 
was  only  the  shock  the  lad  had  suffered  in  being  tossed 
to  a  distance  of  several  yards,  and  falling  on  the  ground 
like  a  bundle  of  clothes.  At  other  times  it  was  the  agony 
of  being  trampled  under  foot  by  some  enormously  heavy 
animal ;  then  a  pail  of  water  would  be  dashed  on  his  head, 
and  when  he  recovered  his  senses,  he  would  be  treated 
to  a  long  draught  of  aguardiente  from  Cazalla  de  la 
Sierra.  Not  even  a  prince  could  be  better  cared  for,  and 
back  he  went  to  the  Plaza  again. 

When  the  grazier  had  no  more  bulls  to  loose  and 
night  was  beginning  to  fall,  two  of  the  cuadrilla,  choosing 
the  best  cloak  of  the  company,  and  holding  it  by  the  cor- 
ners, would  go  from  stand  to  stand  asking  for  some 
gratuity.  Copper  money  would  rain  into  the  red  cloth 
'i.e.  knew  all  about  it 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  67 

according  to  the  amusement  the  strangers  had  given  to 
the  inhabitants,  and  the  corrida  being  ended  they  would 
recommence  their  tramp  home,  knowing  their  credit  at 
the  inn  was  exhausted.  Very  often  on  the  way  home  they 
quarrelled  over  the  division  of  the  coins  which  were 
carried  tied  up  in  a  handkerchief. 

All  the  rest  of  the  week  would  be  spent  narrating  their 
exploits  before  the  wide  open  eyes  of  the  chums  who 
had  not  been  of  the  expedition.  They  would  tell  of 
their  "veronicas"  ^  in  El  Garrobo,  of  their  "navarras"  * 
in  Lora,  or  of  a  terrible  goring  in  El  Pedroso,  imitating 
the  airs  and  attitudes  of  the  true  professionals,  who,  a 
few  steps  away  from  them,  were  consoling  themselves 
for  their  failure  to  get  contracts,  by  every  sort  of  brag- 
ging and  lies. 

On  one  occasion  the  Seilora  Angustias  was  more  than 
a  week  without  news  of  her  son.  At  last  vague  rumours 
came  that  he  had  been  wounded  in  a  "capea"  at  the  vil- 
lage of  Tocino.  Dios  mio !  Where  might  that  village 
be?  How  should  she  get  to  it?  .  .  .  She  made  sure  her 
son  was  dead  and  wept  for  him,  nevertheless  she  wished 
to  go  to  the  place  herself.  While,  however,  she  was  con- 
sidering the  journey  Juanillo  arrived,  pale  and  weak,  but 
speaking  with  manly  pride  of  his  accident. 

It  was  nothing.  A  prick  in  the  buttock,  which,  with 
the  shamelessness  born  of  his  triumph  he  wished  to  show 
to  all  the  neighbours,  declaring  that  he  could  put  his 
finger  in  several  inches  without  its  coming  to  the  end. 
He  was  proud  of  the  smell  of  iodoform  which  he  dis- 

*  Pass  in  which  the  torero  stands  with  his  feet  in  line  with  the 
bull's  forefeet.  When  the  animal  is  in  the  act  of  charging  he 
turns  it  by  a  pass  of  the  cape  either  to  right  or  left.  It  is  con- 
sidered a  very  brilliant  stroke. 

^  Another  pass,  when  the  cape  is  spread  nearly  flat  on  the 
ground,  and  when  the  bull  is  in  the  act  of  charging  it,  it  is 
drawn  up  suddenly  over  his  head. 


68  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

persed  as  he  passed,  and  he  spoke  gratefully  of  the  at- 
tentions which  had  been  paid  to  him  in  that  town,  which, 
according  to  him,  was  the  finest  in  all  Spain.  The 
richest  people  there,  the  aristocracy  as  one  might  say, 
were  interested  in  his  mishap,  and  the  alcalde  had  been 
to  see  him,  afterwards  giving  him  his  return  fare.  He 
still  had  three  duros  in  his  purse,  which  he  made  over 
to  his  mother  with  the  air  of  a  grand  gentleman.  So 
much  fame  at  fourteen!  His  pride  was  all  the  greater 
when  in  La  Campana,  several  toreros  (real  toreros) 
deigned  to  take  notice  of  him,  enquiring  how  his  wound 
was  getting  on. 

After  this  accident  he  never  again  returned  to  his 
master's  shop.  He  knew  now  what  bulls  were,  and  his 
wound  only  served  to  increase  his  boldness.  He  would 
be  a  torero ;  and  nothing  but  a  torero !  The  Sefiora 
Angustias  abandoned  all  her  projects  of  correction,  judg- 
ing them  to  be  useless.  She  tried  to  ignore  her  son's 
existence.  When  he  arrived  home  at  night,  at  the  time 
his  mother  and  sister  were  supping  together,  they  gave 
him  his  food  in  silence,  intending  to  crush  him  with  their 
contempt,  but  this  in  no  way  interfered  with  his  appetite. 
If  he  arrived  late,  they  did  not  even  keep  a  scrap  of 
bread  for  him,  and  he  was  obliged  to  go  out  again,  as 
empty  as  he  had  come  in. 

He  was  one  of  the  evening  promenaders  in  the  Ala- 
meda de  Hercules,  with  other  vicious-eyed  lads,  a  con- 
fused mixture  of  apprentices,  criminals,  and  toreros.  The 
neighbours  met  him  sometimes  in  the  streets  talking  to 
young  gentlemen  whose  airs  made  the  women  laugh,  or 
grave  caballeros  to  whom  slander  gave  feminine  nick- 
names. Sometimes  he  would  sell  newspapers,  or  during 
the  great  festivals  of  Holy  Week  he  would  sell  packets 
of  caramels  in  the  Plaza  de  San  Francisco.  At  the  time 
of  the  fair,  he  would  loiter  about  the  hotels  waiting  for 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  69 

an  "Englishman,"  because  for  him  all  travellers  were 
English,  hoping  to  be  engaged  as  guide. 

"Milord!  ...  I  am  a  torero!"  ...  he  would  say, 
seeing  a  foreign  figure,  as  if  this  professional  qualifica- 
tion was  an  undeniable  recommendation  to  strangers. 

In  order  to  establish  his  identity,  he  would  take  off  his 
cap,  letting  the  pigtail  fall  down  behind,  the  long  lock  of 
hair  which  as  a  rule  he  wore  rolled  up  on  the  top  of  his 
head. 

His  companion  in  wretchedness  was  Chiripa,  a  lad  of 
the  same  age,  small  of  body  and  malicious  of  eye.  He 
had  neither  father  nor  mother,  and  had  wandered  about 
Seville  ever  since  he  could  remember  anything.  He  ex- 
ercised over  Juanillo  all  the  influence  of  greater  experi- 
ence. He  had  one  cheek  scarred  by  a  bull's  horn,  and 
this  visible  wound  the  Zapaterin  considered  greatly  su- 
perior to  his  invisible  one. 

When  at  the  door  of  an  hotel  some  lady,  bitten  by  the 
idea  of  "local  colour,"  spoke  with  the  young  toreros, 
admired  their  pig-tails,  listened  to  the  stories  of  their 
exploits,  and  ended  by  giving  them  some  money,  Chiripa 
would  say  in  a  whining  voice. 

"Do  not  give  it  to  him,  he  has  a  mother,  and  I  am 
alone  in  the  world.  He  who  has  a  mother  does  not 
know  what  he  has  !'* 

And  the  Zapaterin,  seized  with  a  feeling  of  compunc- 
tion, would  allow  the  other  lad  to  take  possession  of  all 
the  money,  murmuring: 

"That  is  true;  that  is  true." 

This  filial  tenderness  did  not  prevent  Juanillo  continu- 
ing his  abnormal  existence,  only  putting  in  an  occasional 
appearance  at  Sefiora  Angustias'  house,  and  often  under- 
taking long  journeys  away  from  Seville. 

Chiripa  was  a  past  master  of  a  vagabond  life.  On 
the  days  of  a  corrida  he  would  make  up  his  mind  to  get 


TO  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

into  the  Plaza  de  Toros  somehow  with  his  comrade,  and 
would  employ  for  this  end  every  sort  of  stratagem,  such 
as  scaling  the  walls,  slipping  in  among  the  people  un- 
perceived,  or  even  softening  the  officials  by  humble  pray- 
ers. A  fiesta  taurina,^  and  they  who  were  of  the  pro- 
fession not  there  to  see  it !  .  .  .  When  there  were  no  "ca- 
peas"  in  the  provincial  towns,  they  would  go  and  spread 
their  cloaks  before  the  young  bulls  in  the  pastures  of 
Tablada.  These  attractions  of  Sevillian  life,  however, 
were  not  sufficient  to  satisfy  their  ambition. 

Chiripa  had  wandered  much,  and  told  his  companion 
of  all  the  things  he  had  seen  in  the  distant  provinces. 
He  was  expert  in  the  art  of  travelling  gratuitously  and 
hiding  himself  cleverly  on  the  trains.  The  Zapaterin  list- 
ened with  delight  to  his  description  of  Madrid,  that  city 
of  dreams  with  its  Bull-ring,  which  was  a  kind  of  Ca- 
thedral of  bull-fighting. 

One  day  a  gentleman  at  the  door  of  a  cafe  in  the  Calle 
de  las  Sierpes  told  them,  in  order  to  take  a  rise  out  of 
them,  that  they  might  earn  a  great  deal  of  money  in 
Bilbao,  as  toreros  did  not  abound  there  as  they  did  in 
Seville.  So  the  two  lads  undertook  the  journey  with 
empty  purses,  and  no  luggage  but  their  capes — real 
capes,  which  had  belonged  to  toreros  whose  names  fig- 
ured on  placards,  and  bought  by  them  for  a  few  reals  in 
an  old  clothes  shop. 

They  crept  cautiously  into  the  trains,  hiding  them- 
selves beneath  the  seats,  but  hunger  and  other  necessities 
obliged  them  to  divulge  their  presence  to  their  fellow 
travellers,  who  ended  by  pitying  their  plight,  laughing  at 
the  queer  figures  they  cut,  with  their  pig-tails  and  capes, 
and  finally  giving  them  the  remains  of  their  victuals. 
When  any  official  gave  chase  at  the  stations,  they  would 
run  from  carriage  to  carriage,  or  try  to  climb  on  the 
*  Bull-fighting  festival. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  71 

roofs  to  await,  lying  flat,  the  starting  of  the  train. 
Many  times  they  were  caught,  seized  by  the  ears  to  the 
accompaniment  of  blows  and  kicks,  and  left,  standing  on 
the  platform  of  a  lonely  station,  to  watch  the  train  vanish 
like  a  lost  hope. 

They  would  wait  for  the  passing  of  the  next  train, 
bivouacing  in  the  open  air,  or  if  they  found  they  were 
being  watched  would  start  to  walk  over  the  deserted  fields 
to  the  next  station,  in  the  hope  that  there  they  would  be 
more  fortunate.  And  so  they  arrived  at  Madrid  after  an 
adventurous  journey  of  many  days,  with  long  waits  and 
not  a  few  cuffs.  In  the  Calle  de  Sevilla  and  the  Puerta 
del  Sol,  they  admired  the  groups  of  unemployed  toreros, 
superior  beings,  from  whom  they  ventured  to  beg- 
without  any  result — a  little  alms  to  continue  their  jour- 
ney. A  servant  of  the  Plaza  de  Toros  who  came  from 
Seville  had  pity  on  them,  and  let  them  sleep  in  the 
stables,  procuring  them  further  the  delight  of  seeing  a 
corrida  of  young  bulls  in  the  famous  circus,  which,  how- 
ever, did  not  seem  to  them  as  imposing  as  the  one  in 
their  own  country. 

Frightened  at  their  own  daring,  and  seeing  the  end  of 
their  excursion  ever  further  and  further  off,  they  decided 
to  return  to  Seville  in  the  same  way  that  they  had  come, 
but  from  that  time  they  took  a  pleasure  in  these  stolen 
journeys  on  the  railway.  They  travelled  to  many  places 
of  small  importance  in  the  different  Andalusian  provinces, 
whenever  they  heard  vague  rumours  of  "fiestas"  with 
their  corresponding  *'capeas."  In  this  way  they  travelled 
as  far  as  La  Mancha,  and  Estremadura,  and  if  bad  luck 
obliged  them  to  go  on  foot,  they  took  refuge  in  the 
hovels  of  the  peasants,  credulous,  good-natured  people, 
who  were  astounded  at  their  youth,  their  daring  and  their 
bombastic  talk,  and  took  them  for  real  toreros. 

This  wandering  existence  made  them  exercise  the  cun- 


72 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


ning  of  primitive  man  to  satisfy  their  wants.  In  the 
neighbourhood  of  country  houses,  they  would  crawl  on 
their  stomachs  to  steal  the  vegetables  without  being  seen. 
They  would  watch  whole  hours  for  a  solitary  hen  to 
come  near  them,  and  having  wnmg  her  neck  would  pro- 
ceed on  their  tramp,  to  light  a  fire  of  dry  wood  in  the 
middle  of  the  day,  and  swallow  the  poor  bird  scorched 
and  half  raw  with  the  voracity  of  little  savages.  The 
field  mastiffs  they  feared  more  than  bulls ;  these  watch- 
dogs were  difficult  brutes  to  fight,  when  they  rushed 
upon  the  boys  showing  their  fangs,  as  If  the  strange 
aspect  of  the  latter  infuriated  them  and  they  scented 
enemies  to  personal  property. 

Sometimes  when  they  were  sleeping  in  the  open  air 
near  a  station  waiting  for  a  train  to  pass,  a  couple  of 
Civil  Guards  would  rouse  them.  However,  the  guar- 
dians of  law  and  order  were  pacified  when  they  saw  the 
red  cloth  bundles  which  served  these  vagabonds  as  pil- 
lows. Very  civilly  they  would  take  oflf  the  urchins'  caps, 
and  finding  the  hairy  appendage  of  the  pig-tail,  they 
would  move  off  laughing,  and  make  no  further  enquiries. 
They  were  not  little  thieves;  they  were  "aficionados" 
going  to  the  "capeas."  In  this  tolerance  there  was  a  mix- 
ture of  sympathy  for  the  national  pastime,  and  respect 
towards  the  obscurity  of  the  future.  Who  could  tell  if 
perhaps  one  of  these  ragged  lads,  with  poverty  stricken 
exterior,  might  not  become  in  the  future  a  "star  of  the 
art,"  a  great  man  who  would  pledge  ^  bulls  to  kings, 
would  live  like  a  prince,  and  whose  exploits  and  sayings 
would  be  recorded  in  the  newspapers ! 

At  last  an  evening  came,  when,  in  a  town  of  Estrema- 
dura  the  Zapaterin  found  himself  alone. 

In  order  the  more  to  astonish  the  rustic  audience  who 
were  applauding  the   famous  toreros  "come  purposely 
*Brindis,  dedication  or  pledge. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  73 

from  Seville/*  the  two  lads  thought  they  would  fix  ban- 
derillas  in  the  neck  of  an  old  and  very  tricky  bull, 
Juanillo  had  fixed  his  darts  in  the  beast's  neck  and  stood 
near  a  staging,  delighting  in  receiving  the  popular  ova- 
tion, which  expressed  itself  in  tremendous  thumps  on  his 
back  and  oflFers  of  glasses  of  wine.  An  exclamation  of 
horror  startled  him  out  of  this  intoxication  of  triumph. 
Chiripa  was  no  longer  standing  on  the  ground  of  the 
Plaza.  Nothing  remained  of  him  but  the  banderillas 
rolling  on  the  ground,  one  slipper  and  his  cap.  The 
bull  was  tossing  his  head  as  if  irritated  at  some  obstacle, 
carrying  impaled  on  one  of  his  horns  a  bundle  of  clothes 
like  a  doll.  By  violent  head-shakes  the  shapeless  bundle 
was  flung  off  the  horn  pouring  out  a  red  stream,  but 
before  it  reached  the  ground  it  was  caught  by  the  other 
horn,  and  twirled  about  for  some  time.  At  last  the 
luckless  bundle  fell  into  the  dust,  and  lay  there  limp  and 
lifeless,  pouring  out  blood,  like  a  pierced  wine  skin 
letting  out  the  wine  in  jets. 

The  grazier  with  his  bell  oxen  drew  the  brute  into 
the  yard,  for  no  one  dared  to  approach  him,  and  the 
unhappy  Qiiripa  was  carried  on  a  straw  mattress  to  a 
room  in  the  Town  Hall  which  usually  served  as  a  prison. 
His  companion  saw  him  there  with  his  face  as  white  as 
plaster,  his  eyes  dull,  and  his  body  red  with  blood  which 
the  cloths  soaked  in  vinegar — applied  in  default  of  any- 
thing better — were  unable  to  staunch. 

"Adio,  Zapaterin !"  he  sighed.  "Adio,  Juaniyo  V*  and 
spoke  no  more. 

The  dead  lad's  companion,  quite  overcome,  started  on 
his  return  to  Seville,  haunted  by  those  glassy  eyes,  hear- 
ing those  moaning  farewells.  He  was  afraid.  A  quiet 
cow  crossing  his  path  would  have  made  him  run.  He 
thought  of  his  mother  and  the  wisdom  of  her  advice. 
Would  it  not  be  better  to  devote  himself  to  shoe-making 


74 


BLOOD  AND  SAND 


and  live  quietly  ?  .  .  .  Those  ideas,  however,  only  lasted 
as  long  as  he  was  alone. 

On  arriving  in  Seville  he  once  more  felt  the  influence 
of  the  pervading  atmosphere.  His  friends  surrounded 
him  anxious  to  hear  every  detail  of  poor  Chiripa's  death. 
The  professional  toreros  enquired  about  it  in  La  Cam- 
pana,  recalling  pitifully  the  little  rascal  with  the  scarred 
face  who  had  run  so  many  errands  for  them.  Juan, 
fired  by  such  marks  of  consideration,  gave  rein  to  his 
powerful  imagination,  and  described  how  he  had  thrown 
himself  on  the  bull  when  he  saw  his  unlucky  companion 
caught,  how  he  had  seized  the  brute  by  the  tail,  with 
other  portentous  exploits,  in  spite  of  which  poor  Chiripa 
had  made  his  exit  from  this  world. 

This  painful  impression  soon  disappeared.  He  would 
be  a  torero  and  nothing  but  a  torero ;  if  others  became 
that,  why  not  he?  He  thought  of  the  weevilled  beans, 
wid  his  mother's  dry  bread,  of  the  abuse  which  each  new 
pair  of  trousers  drew  on  him,  of  hunger,  the  inseparable 
companion  of  so  many  of  his  expeditions.  Besides  he 
felt  a  vehement  longing  for  all  the  enjoyments  and  lux- 
uries of  life,  he  looked  with  envy  at  the  coaches  and 
horses;  he  stood  absorbed  before  the  doorways  of  the 
great  houses,  through  whose  iron  wickets  he  could  see 
court-yards  of  oriental  luxury,  with  arcades  of  Moorish 
tiles;  floors  of  marble  and  murmuring  fountains,  which 
dropped  a  shower  of  pearls  day  and  night  over  basins 
surrounded  by  green  leaves.  His  fate  was  decided.  He 
would  kill  bulls  or  die.  He  would  be  rich,  so  that  the 
newspapers  should  speak  of  him,  and  people  bow  before 
him,  even  though  it  were  at  the  cost  of  his  life.  He 
despised  the  inferior  ranks  of  the  torero.  He  saw  the 
banderilleros  who  risked  their  lives,  just  like  the  masters 
of  the  profession,  receive  thirty  duros  only  for  each 
corrida,  and,  after  a  life  of  fatigues  and  gorings,  with 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  75 

no  future  for  their  old  age  but  some  wretched  little  shop 
started  with  their  savings,  or  some  employment  at  a 
slaughter-house.  Many  died  in  hospitals;  the  majority 
begged  for  charity  from  their  younger  companions. 
Nothing  for  him  of  banderilleros,  or  of  spending  many 
years  in  a  cuadrilla,  under  the  despotism  of  a  master! 
He  would  kill  bulls  from  the  first  and  tread  the  sand  of 
the  Plazas  as  an  espada  at  once. 

The  misfortune  of  poor  Chiripa  gave  him  a  certain  as- 
cendancy among  his  companions,  and  he  formed  a  cua- 
drilla, a  ragged  cuadrilla  who  tramped  after  him  to  the 
"capeas"  in  the  villages.  They  respected  him  because 
he  was  the  bravest  and  the  best  dressed.  Several  girls 
of  loose  life  attracted  by  the  manly  beauty  of  the  Zapa- 
terin,  who  was  now  eighteen,  and  also  by  the  prestige  of 
his  pig-tail,  quarrelled  among  themselves  in  noisy  rivalry, 
as  to  who  should  have  the  care  of  his  comely  person. 
Added  to  this,  he  now  reckoned  on  a  Godfather,  an  old 
patron  and  former  magistrate,  who  had  a  weakness  for 
smart  young  toreros,  but  whose  intimacy  with  her  son 
made  Sefiora  Angustias  furious,  and  caused  her  to  give 
vent  to  all  the  most  obscene  expressions  she  had  learnt 
while  she  was  at  the  Tobacco  factory. 

The  Zapaterin  wore  suits  of  English  woollen  cloth  well 
fitted  to  his  elegant  figure,  and  his  hats  were  always  spick 
and  span.  His  female  associates  looked  to  the  scrupu- 
lous whiteness  of  his  collars  and  shirt  fronts,  and  on 
great  days  he  wore  over  his  waistcoat  a  double  chain  of 
gold  like  ladies  wear,  a  loan  from  his  respected  friend, 
which  had  already  figured  round  the  necks  of  several 
youngsters  who  were  beginning  their  careers. 

He  now  mixed  with  the  real  toreros,  and  he  could  af- 
ford to  stand  treat  to  the  old  servants  who  remembered 
the  exploits  of  the  famous  masters.  It  was  rumoured  as 
true,  that  certain  patrons  were  working  in  favour  of 


y6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

this  "lad,"  and  were  only  waiting  for  a  propitious  oc- 
casion for  his  debut,  at  the  baiting  of  novillos^  in  the 
Plaza  of  Seville.  ^ 

The  Zapaterin  was  already  a  matador.  One  day  at 
Lebrija,  a  most  lively  bull  was  turned  into  the  arena,  his 
companions  egged  him  on  to  the  supreme  feat:  "Do 
you  dare  to  put  your  hand  to  him  ?"  .  .  .  and  he  did  put 
his  hand.  Afterwards,  emboldened  by  the  facility  with 
which  he  had  come  out  of  the  peril,  he  went  to  all  the 
"capeas"  in  which  it  was  announced  that  the  novillos 
would  be  killed,  and  to  all  the  farm  houses  where  they 
baited  and  killed  cattle. 

The  proprietor  of  La  Rinconada — a  rich  grange  with 
its  own  small  bull-ring — was  an  enthusiast,  who  kept  the 
table  laid,  and  his  hay-loft  open  for  all  the  starving 
"aficionados"  who  wished  to  amuse  themselves  fighting 
his  cattle.  Juanillo  had  been  there  in  the  days  of  his 
poverty  with  other  companions,  to  eat  to  the  health  of  the 
rural  hidalgo.  They  would  arrive  on  foot  after  a  two 
days'  tramp,  and  the  proprietor  seeing  the  dusty  troup 
with  their  bundles  of  cloaks  would  say  solemnly : 

"To  whoever  does  best,  I  will  give  his  ticket  to  return 
to  Seville  by  train." 

The  master  of  the  farm  spent  two  days  smoking  in  the 
balcony  of  his  Plaza,  whilst  the  youngsters  from  Seville 
fought  his  young  bulls,  being  often  knocked  over  and 
pawed. 

"That's  no  use  whatever,  blunderer!"  he  would  cry, 
reproving  a  cloak  pass  ill  delivered. 

"Up  from  the  ground,  coward !  .  .  .  And  tell  them  to 
give  you  some  wine  to  get  over  your  fright,"  ...  he 
would  shout  when  a  lad  continued  lying  full  length  on 
the  ground  after  a  bull  had  passed  over  his  body. 

The  Zapaterin  killed  a  novillo  so  much  to  the  taste  of 
'  Young  Lulls — up  to  about  three  years  old. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  T^ 

Its  owner,  that  the  latter  seated  him  at  his  own  table, 
while  his  comrades  remained  in  the  kitchen  with  the  shep- 
herds and  labourers,  dipping  their  horn  spoons  into  the 
common  steaming  pot. 

"You  have  earned  your  journey  in  the  railway,  Gacho. 
You  will  go  far,  if  your  heart  does  not  fail  you.  You 
have  capabilities." 

When  the  Zapaterin  began  his  return  journey  to  Seville 
in  a  second-class  carriage,  while  the  cuadrilla  commenced 
theirs  on  foot,  he  thought  a  new  life  was  opening  for 
him,  and  he  cast  looks  of  envy  on  the  enormous  grange, 
with  its  extensive  olive-yards,  its  mills,  its  pastures  which 
lost  themselves  to  sight,  on  which  thousands  of  goats 
grazed  and  bulls  and  cows  ruminated  quietly  with  their 
legs  tucked  under  them.  What  wealth!  If  he  could 
only  some  day  arrive  at  possessmg  something  similar! 

The  fame  of  his  prowesr>  in  baiting  the  young  bulls  in 
the  villages  reached  Seville,  atracting  the  notice  of  some 
of  the  restless  and  insatiable  amateurs,  who  were  always 
hoping  for  the  rise  of  a  new  star  to  eclipse  the  existing 
ones. 

"He  looks  a  promising  lad'*  .  .  .  they  said,  seeing  him 
pass  along  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,  with  a  short  step 
swinging  his  arms  proudly.  "We  shall  have  to  see  him 
on  the  'true  ground.*  " 

This  ground  for  them  and  for  the  Zapaterin  was  the 
circus  of  the  Plaza  of  Seville.  The  youngster  was  soon 
to  find  himself  face  to  face  with  "the  truth."  ^  His 
protector  had  acquired  for  him  a  gala  dress  a  little  used, 
the  cast-off  finery  of  some  nameless  matador.  A  corrida 
of  novillos  was  being  organized  for  some  charitable  pur- 
pose, and  some  influential  amateurs,  anxious  for  novelty, 

*  La  verdad — full-grown  bulls  fought  according  to  rules  laid 
down. 


78  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

succeeded  in  Including  him  in  the  programme — gratui- 
tously— as  matador. 

The  son  of  Senora  Angustias  would  not  allow  himself 
to  be  announced  on  the  placards  by  his  nickname  of 
Zapaterin,  which  he  wished  to  forget.  He  would  have 
nothing  to  do  with  nicknames,  still  less  with  any  subordi- 
nate employment.  He  wished  to  be  known  by  his  fath- 
er's names,  he  intended  to  be  Juan  Gallardo ;  and  that  no 
nickname  should  remind  the  great  people,  who  in  the 
future  would  indubitably  be  his  friends,  of  his  low  origin. 

All  the  suburb  of  la  Feria  rushed  "en  masse"  to  the 
corrida,  with  turbulent  and  patriotic  ardour.  Those  of 
la  Macarena  also  showed  their  interest,  and  all  the  other 
workmen's  suburbs  were  roused  to  the  same  enthusiasm. 
A  new  Sevillian  Matador!  .  .  .  There  were  not  places 
enough  for  all,  and  thousands  of  people  remained  out- 
side anxiously  awaiting  news  of  the  corrida. 

Gallardo  baited,  killed,  was  rolled  over  by  a  bull  with- 
out being  wounded ;  keeping  His  audience  on  tenter  hooks 
with  his  audacities,  which  in  most  cases  turned  out  luck- 
ily, provoking  immense  howls  of  enthusiasm.  Certain 
amateurs  whose  opinions  were  worthy  of  respect  smiled 
complacently.  He  still  had  a  great  deal  to  learn,  but  he 
had  courage  and  goodwill,  which  is  the  most  important 
thing.  Above  all  he  goes  in  to  kill  truly,  and  he  is  at 
last  on  the  "true  ground." 

During  the  corrida  the  good-looking  girls,  friends  of 
the  diestro,  rushed  about  frantic  with  enthusiasm,  with 
hysterical  contortions,  tearful  eyes,  and  slobbering 
mouths,  making  use  in  broad  daylight  of  all  the  loving 
words  they  generally  kept  for  night.  One  flung  her  cloak 
into  the  arena,  another,  to  go  one  better,  her  blouse  and 
her  stays,  another  tore  off  her  skirt,  till  the  spectators 
seized  hold  of  them  laughing,  fearing  they  would  throw 
themselves  next  into  the  arena,  or  remain  in  their  shifts. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  79 

On  the  other  side  of  the  Plaza,  the  old  magistrate 
smiled  tenderly  under  his  white  beard,  admiring  the 
youngster's  courage,  and  thinking  how  well  the  gala 
dress  became  him.  On  seeing  him  rolled  over  by  the 
bull,  he  threw  himself  back  in  his  seat  as  if  he  were 
fainting.     That  was  too  much  for  him. 

Between  the  barriers  Encamacion's  husband  strutted 
with  pride,  he  was  a  saddler  with  a  small  open  shop;  a 
prudent  man,  detesting  vagrancy,  he  had  fallen  in  love 
with  the  cigarette  maker's  charms,  and  married  her,  but 
on  the  express  condition  of  having  nothing  to  do  with 
that  bad  lot,  her  brother. 

Gallardo,  offended  by  his  brother-in-law's  sour  face, 
had  never  attempted  to  set  foot  in  his  shop,  situated  on 
the  outskirts  of  la  Macarena,  neither  had  he  ever  ceased 
to  use  the  ceremonious  *'Uste"  when  he  met  him  some- 
times in  the  evening  at  Senora  Angustias'  house. 

*'I  am  going  to  see  how  they  will  pelt  that  vagabond 
brother  of  yours  with  oranges  to  make  him  run,"  he  had 
said  to  his  wife  as  he  left  for  the  Plaza. 

But  now  from  his  seat  he  was  applauding  the  diestro, 
shouting  to  him  as  Juaniyo,  calling  him  *tu,"  peacocking 
with  delight  when  the  youngster,  attracted  by  the  shout- 
ing at  last  saw  him,  and  replied  with  a  wave  of  his 
rapier. 

"He  is  my  brother-in-law"  .  .  .  explained  the  saddler, 
in  order  to  attract  the  attention  of  those  around  him. 
*'I  have  always  thought  that  youngster  would  be  some- 
thing in  the  bull-fighting  line.  My  wife  and  I  have 
helped  him  a  great  deal." 

The  exit  was  triumphal.  The  crowd  threw  themselves 
on  Juanillo,  as  if  they  intended  to  devour  him  in  their 
expansive  delight.  It  was  a  mercy  his  brother-in-law 
was  there  to  restore  order,  to  cover  him  with  his  body. 


8o  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

and  conduct  him  to  the  hired  carriage,  in  which  he  finally 
took  his  seat  by  the  side  of  the  Novillero. 

A\'hen  they  arrived  at  the  little  house  in  the  suburb 
of  la  Feria,  an  immense  crowd  followed  the  carriage, 
and  like  all  popular  manifestations  they  were  shouting 
vivas  which  made  the  inhabitants  run  to  their  doors. 
The  news  of  his  triumph  had  arrived  before  the  diestro, 
and  all  the  neighbours  ran  to  look  at  him  and  shake  his 
hand. 

The  Sefiora  Angustias  and  her  daughter  were  standing 
at  the  house  door.  The  saddler  almost  lifted  his  brother- 
in-law  out  in  his  arms,  monopolizing  him,  shouting  and 
gesticulating  in  the  name  of  the  family  to  prevent  any- 
one touching  him  as  though  he  were  a  sick  man. 

"Here  he  is;  Encamacion" — he  said  pushing  him 
towards  his  wife.    "He  is  the  real  Roger  de  Flor!"  ^ 

Encarnacion  did  not  need  to  ask  any  more,  for  she 
knew  that  her  husband,  as  a  result  of  some  far  off  and 
confused  reading,  considered  this  historic  personage  as 
the  embodiment  of  all  greatness,  and  only  ventured  to 
join  his  name  to  portentous  events. 

Other  neighbours  who  had  come  from  the  corrida  in- 
sinuatingly flattered  Sefiora  Angustias,  as  they  looked 
admiringly  at  her  portly  figure. 

Blessed  be  the  mother  who  bore  so  brave  a  son!  .  .  . 

The  poor  woman's  eyes  wore  an  expression  of  bewild- 
erment and  doubt.  Could  it  be  really  her  Juanillo  who 
was  making  everyone  run  about  so  enthusiastically?  .  .  . 
Had  they  all  gone  mad  ? 

But  suddenly  she  threw  herself  upon  him,  as  if  all  the 
past  had  vanished,  as  if  her  sorrows  and  rages  were  a 
dream ;  as  if  she  were  confessing  to  a  shameful  error. 
Her  enormous  flabby  arms  were  flung  round  the  torero's 
neck,  and  tears  wetted  one  of  his  cheeks. 

*  \  soldier  of  fortune  of  the  Middle  Ages. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  8i 

"My  son!  Juaniyo!  ...  If  your  poor  father  could 
see  you!" 

"Don't  cry,  mother  .  .  .  for  this  is  a  happy  day.  You 
will  see.  If  God  gives  me  luck  I  will  build  you  a  house, 
and  your  friends  shall  see  you  in  a  carriage,  and  you 
shall  wear  a  Manila  shawl  which  will  make  every- 
one  .  .  . 

The  saddler  acknowledged  those  promises  of  grandeur 
with  affirmative  nods,  standing  opposite  his  bewildered 
wife,  who  had  not  yet  got  over  her  surprise  at  this  radical 
change.  "Yes,  Encamacion;  this  youngster  can  do 
everything  if  he  takes  the  trouble  ...  he  was  extra- 
ordinary! the  real  Roger  de  Flor  himself!" 

That  night  in  the  taverns  of  the  people's  suburbs,  noth- 
ing was  talked  of  but  Gallardo. 

The  torero  of  the  future.  As  startling  as  the  roses! 
This  lad  will  take  off  the  chignons  ^  of  all  the  Cordovan 
caliphs. 

In  this  speech  Sevillian  pride  was  latent,  the  perpetual 
rivalry  with  the  people  of  Cordova,  also  a  country  of 
fine  bull-fighters. 

From  that  day  forward  Gallardo' s  life  was  completely 
changed.  The  gentlemen  saluted  him  and  made  him  sit 
among  them  in  front  of  the  cafes.  The  girls  who  for- 
merly kept  him  from  hunger,  and  looked  after  his  adorn- 
ment found  themselves  little  by  little  repelled  with  smil- 
ing contempt.  Even  the  old  protector  withdrew  in  view 
of  certain  rebuflis,  and  transferred  his  tender  friendship 
to  other  youths  who  were  beginning. 

The  management  of  the  Plaza  de  Toros  sought  out 
Gallardo,  flattering  him  as  though  he  were  already  a 
celebrity.  When  his  name  was  announced  on  the  pla- 
cards, the  result  was  certain:   a  bumper  house.     The 

'  Quitar  la  mona — expression  used  when  a  torero  cuts  off  his 
pigtail  or  chignon  and  retires  into  private  life. 


82  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

rabble  applauded  Senora  Angustias'  son  with  transports, 
telling  tales  of  his  courage.  Gallardo's  renown  soon 
spread  throughout  Andalusia,  and  the  saddler,  without 
anyone  having  asked  for  his  assistance,  now  mixed  him' 
self  up  in  everything,  arrogating  to  himself  the  role  of 
protector  of  his  brother-in-law's  interests. 

He  was  a  hard-headed  man,  very  expert,  according  to 
himself,  in  business,  and  he  saw  his  line  of  life  marked 
out  for  ever. 

"Your  brother  .  .  ."  he  said  at  nights  to  his  wife  as 
they  were  going  to  bed  .  .  .  "wants  a  practical  man  at 
his  side  who  will  look  after  his  interest.  Do  you  think 
it  would  be  a  bad  thing  for  him  to  name  me  his  manager  ? 
It  would  be  a  great  thing  for  him.  He  is  better  than 
Roger  de  Flor !    And  for  us  .  .  ." 

The  saddler's  imagination  pictured  to  himself  the 
great  wealth  that  Gallardo  would  acquire,  and  he  thought 
also  of  the  five  children  he  already  had  and  of  the  rest 
which  would  surely  follow,  for  he  was  a  man  of  un- 
wearied and  prolific  conjugal  fidelity.  Who  knew  if  what 
the  espada  earned  might  not  eventually  be  for  one  of  his 
nephews!  .  .  . 

For  a  year  and  a  half  Juan  killed  novillos  in  the  best 
Plazas  in  Spain.  His  fame  had  even  reached  Madrid, 
The  amateurs  of  that  town  were  curious  to  know  the 
"Sevillian  lad"  of  whom  the  newspapers  spoke  so  much, 
and  of  whom  the  intelligent  Andalusians  told  such  stories. 

Gallardo  escorted  by  a  party  of  friends  from  his  own 
country,  who  were  living  in  Madrid,  swaggered  on  the 
pavement  of  the  Calle  de  Sevilla  near  the  Cafe  Ingles. 
The  girls  smiled  at  his  gallantries,  fixing  their  eyes  on  the 
torero's  thick  gold  chain  and  his  large  diamonds,  jewels 
bought  with  his  first  earnings  and  on  the  credit  of  those 
of  the  future.  A  matador  ought  to  show  by  the  adorn- 
ment of  his  person,  and  also  by  his  generous  treatment 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  83 

of  everyone,  that  he  has  over  and  above  enough  money. 
How  distant  those  days  seemed,  when  he  and  poor 
Chiripa,  vagabonds  on  that  same  pavement,  in  fear  of  the 
police,  looked  at  the  toreros  with  wondering  eyes  and 
picked  up  the  fag  ends  of  their  cigars! 

His  work  in  Madrid  was  fortunate.  He  made  friend- 
ships, and  soon  gathered  round  him  a  party  of  enthusiasts, 
anxious  for  novelty,  who  also  proclaimed  him  "the  torero 
of  the  future,"  protesting  loudly  at  his  not  yet  having 
received  *'la  alternativa." 

"He  will  earn  money  by  baskets ful,  Encamacion,"  said 
his  brother-in-law.  "He  will  have  millions,  unless  any 
bad  accident  happens  to  him." 

The  family  life  had  completely  changed.  Gallardo, 
who  now  mixed  with  the  gentry  of  Seville,  did  not  care 
for  his  mother  to  continue  living  in  the  hovel  of  the 
days  of  her  poverty.  For  his  own  part,  he  would  have 
liked  to  move  into  the  best  street  in  the  town,  but  Senora 
Angustias  wished  to  remain  faithful  to  the  suburb  of  la 
Feria,  with  that  love  which  simple  people  feel  as  they 
grow  older  for  the  places  in  which  their  youth  has  been 
spent. 

They  now  lived  in  a  much  better  house.  The  mother 
no  longer  worked,  and  the  neighbours  courted  her,  fore- 
seeing in  her  a  generous  lender  in  their  days  of  distress. 
Juan,  besides  the  heavy  and  startling  jewelry  with  which 
he  adorned  his  person,  possessed  that  supreme  luxury 
of  a  torero,  a  powerful  sorrel  mare,  with  a  Moorish  saddle, 
and  a  large  blanket,  adorned  with  multi-coloured  tassels 
rolled  up  on  the  bow.  Mounted  on  her  he  trotted  through 
the  streets,  his  only  object  being  to  receive  the  homage 
of  his  friends  who  greeted  his  elegance  with  noisy  Ole's. 
This  for  the  time  being  satisfied  his  desire  for  popularity. 
At  other  times  joining  some  gentlemen,  the  gallant  caval- 
cade would  ride  to  the  pastures  of  Tablada,  on  the  eve 


84  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

of  some  great  corrida,  to  inspect  the  cattle  that  others 
were  to  kill. 

When  I  shall  have  received  "la  Altemativa"  ...  he 
said  perpetually,  making  all  his  plans  for  the  future 
depend  on  this  event. 

For  that  future  time  he  also  left  several  projects  with 
which  he  intended  to  surprise  his  mother;  who,  poor 
woman!  already  frightened  by  the  comfort  which  had 
crept  suddenly  into  her  house,  would  have  thought  any 
farther  augmentation  an  impossibility. 

At  last  the  day  of  "la  Altemativa"  arrived,  the  public 
recognition  of  Gallardo  as  matador. 

A  celebrated  master  ceded  his  sword  and  muleta  to  him 
in  the  full  circus  in  Seville,  the  crowd  were  nearly  mad 
with  delight,  seeing  how  he  killed  with  one  sword  thrust 
the  first  "formal"  ^  bull  which  was  placed  before  him. 
The  following  month  this  doctorate  of  tauromachia  was 
countersigned  in  the  Plaza  in  Madrid,  where  another  no 
less  celebrated  master  gave  him  "la  Alternativa"  in  a 
corrida  of  bulls  from  Muira. 

He  was  now  no  longer  a  novillero ;  he  was  a  recognized 
matador,  and  his  name  figured  on  the  placards  by  the 
side  of  all  the  old  espadas,  whom  he  had  admired  as  un- 
approachable divinities,  in  the  days  when  he  went  through 
the  little  towns  taking  part  in  the  "capeas."  He  remem- 
bered having  waited  for  one  of  them  at  a  station  near 
Cordova  to  beg  a  little  help  from  him  as  he  passed  with 
his  cuadrilla.  That  night  he  had  something  to  eat,  thanks 
to  the  fraternal  generosity  existing  between  the  people 
of  the  pigtail,  and  which  made  an  espada  living  in  princely 
luxury  give  a  duro  and  a  cigar  to  the  needy  wretch  who 
was  trying  his  first  "capeas." 

Engagements  began  to  pour  in  to  the  new  espada.    In 

*Toro  formal — a  bull  who  fulfils  all  the  conditions  necessary 
for  a  large  bull-fight,  age,  size,  breed,  temper,  etc. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  85 

all  the  Plazas  of  the  Peninsula  they  were  curious  to  see 
him.  The  professional  papers  popularized  his  portrait 
and  his  life,  not  without  adding  romantic  episodes  to  this 
latter.  No  matador  had  as  many  engagements  as  he  had, 
and  it  would  not  be  long  before  he  made  a  fortune. 

Antonio,  his  brother-in-law,  viewed  this  success  with 
scowling  brow  and  grumbling  protests  to  his  wife  and 
his  mother-in-law.  The  fellow  was  ungrateful ;  it  was 
the  way  of  all  those  who  rose  too  rapidly.  Just  think 
how  he  had  worked  for  Juan !  How  obstinately  he  had 
discussed  matters  with  Managers  when  they  were  arrang- 
ing the  runs  of  Novillos !  .  .  .  And  now  that  he  was 
"Maestro"  he  had  taken  for  agent  a  certain  Don  Jose, 
whom  he  scarcely  knew,  who  did  not  belong  in  any  way 
to  the  family,  and  for  whom  Gallardo  had  taken  a  great 
affection  simply  because  he  was  an  old  amateur. 

He  will  suffer  for  it;  he  ended  by  saying:  "One  can 
only  have  one  family.  Where  will  he  meet  with  affection 
like  ours,  who  have  known  him  since  his  earliest  child- 
hood ?  So  much  the  worse  for  him !  With  me,  he  would 
have  been  like  the  real  Roger  .  .  ." 

But  here  he  stopped  short,  swallowing  the  rest  of  the 
famous  name,  from  fear  of  the  laughter  of  the  banderil- 
leros  and  amateurs  who  frequented  the  matador's  house, 
and  who  had  not  been  slow  in  noticing  this  historical 
adoration  of  the  saddler's. 

Gallardo,  with  the  good  nature  of  a  successful  man, 
had  endeavoured  to  give  his  brother-in-law  some  com- 
pensation, entrusting  him  with  the  supervision  of  the 
house  he  was  building.  He  gave  him  carte-blanche  for 
all  expenses,  for  the  espada,  bewildered  with  the  ease  with 
which  money  was  pouring  into  his  hands,  was  not  sorry 
his  brother-in-law  should  make  a  profit,  and  he  was 
pleased  to  make  it  up  to  him  in  this  way  for  not  having 
retained  him  as  agent. 


86  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  torero  was  now  able  to  carry  out  his  cherished 
wish  of  building  a  house  for  his  mother.  The  poor 
woman,  who  had  spent  her  life  in  scrubbing  rich  people's 
floors,  was  now  to  have  her  own  beautiful  patio,^  with 
arches  of  Moorish  tiles,  and  marble  floors,  her  rooms 
with  furniture  like  that  of  the  gentry,  and  servants,  a 
great  many  servants,  to  wait  on  her,  Gallardo  also  felt 
himself  drawn  by  traditional  affection  to  the  suburbs 
where  he  had  spent  his  miserable  childhood.  It  pleased 
him  to  dazzle  the  people  who  had  employed  his  mother 
as  charwoman,  or  to  give  a  handful  of  pesetas  in  times 
of  distress  to  those  who  had  taken  their  shoes  to  his 
father  to  mend,  or  had  even  given  himself  a  crust  of 
bread  when  he  was  starving. 

He  bought  several  old  houses,  amongst  them  the  very 
one  with  the  doorway  under  which  his  father  had  worked, 
pulled  them  down,  and  commenced  a  fine  building,  which 
should  have  white  walls,  the  iron  work  of  its  windows 
and  balconies  painted  green,  a  vestibule  with  a  dado  of 
Moorish  tiles,  and  an  iron  wicket  of  fine  workmanship, 
through  which  would  be  seen  the  patio  with  its  foun- 
tain, and  arcades  with  marble  pillars  between  which 
would  hang  gilded  cages  full  of  singing  birds. 

The  pleasure  his  brother-in-law  felt  on  finding  himself 
completely  at  liberty  with  regard  to  the  direction  and 
progress  of  the  works,  was  damped  by  a  terrible  piece 
of  news. 

Gallardo  had  a  sweetheart.  It  was  then  full  summer 
and  the  matador  was  travelling  from  end  to  end  of  Spain, 
from  one  Plaza  to  another,  giving  estocades,  and  recei\ang 
tumultuous  applause;  but  almost  every  day  he  wrote  to 
a  young  girl  in  the  suburb,  and  during  the  brief  respite 
between  two  corridas,  he  would  leave  his  companions, 

*  Central  courtyard  of  a  Spanish  house — which  is  always  a 
garden  with  fountain — and  arched  round  like  a  cloister. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  87 

taking  the  train  to  spend  a  night  in  Seville  "Pelando  la 
Pava"  ^  with  her. 

"Just  fancy  that,"  cried  the  saddler  aghast,  in  what  he 
called  "the  bosom  of  the  hearth,"  that  is  to  his  wife  and 
mother-in-law.  "A  sweetheart,  without  ever  saying  a 
word  to  his  family,  which  is  the  only  real  thing  that 
exists  in  this  world !  The  Sefior  wishes  to  marry — no 
doubt  he  is  tired  of  us  .  .  .  What  a  shame !" 

Encamacion  assented  to  her  husband's  grumbles  by 
energetic  nods  of  her  fierce  looking  but  handsome  head, 
pleased  on  the  whole  to  express  what  she  thought  about 
that  brother,  whose  good  fortune  had  always  been  a 
source  of  envy.  Yes,  no  doubt  he  had  always  been 
utterly  shameless. 

But  his  mother  raised  her  voice, 

*'As  for  that — No.  I  know  the  girl,  and  her  pool 
mother  was  a  friend  of  mine  at  the  Fabrica.  She  is  aa 
pure  as  a  river  of  gold,  well  mannered,  good — hand- 
some ...  I  have  already  told  Juan  that  as  far  as  I 
am  concerned  .  .  .  the  sooner  the  better." 

She  was  an  orphan  living  with  some  uncles  who  kept 
a  small  provision  shop  in  the  suburb.  Her  father,  a 
former  wine  merchant,  had  left  her  two  houses  in  the 
suburb  of  la  Macarena. 

"It  is  not  much,"  said  Seiiora  Angustias ;  "still  the  girl 
will  not  come  empty  handed,  she  brings  something  of 
her  own.  .  .  .  And  for  clothes?  Jesus;  those  little 
hands  are  worth  their  weight  in  gold,  see  how  she  em- 
broiders ;  how  she  is  preparing  her  dowry !" 

Gallardo  remembered  vaguely  having  played  with  her 
as  a  child,  close  to  the  doorway  where  the  cobbler 
worked,  while  their  mothers  gossiped.  She  was  then  like 
a  little  dry,  dark  lizard  with  gipsy  eyes,  the  whole  pupil 

*  Plucking  the  turkey — an  expression  used  of  Andalusian  lovers 
who  spend  the  night  at  a  window  spooning. 


88  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

as  black  as  a  drop  of  ink,  the  whites  blueish  and  the 
corners  pale  pink.  When  she  ran,  nimbly  as  a  boy,  she 
showed  legs  like  thin  reeds,  and  her  hair  flew  wildly 
about  her  head  in  rebellious  and  tangled  curls  like  black 
snakes.  Afterwards  he  had  lost  sight  of  her,  not  meet- 
ing her  again  till  many  years  after  when  he  was  a  novil- 
lero,  and  was  already  beginning  to  make  a  name. 

It  was  on  a  day  of  Corpus,  one  of  the  few  festivals  in 
which  the  women,  generally  kept  at  home  by  their  almost 
Oriental  laziness,  all  come  forth  like  Moorish  women 
set  at  liberty,  in  their  lace  mantillas,  pinned  to  their 
breasts  with  bunches  of  carnations,  Gallardo  saw  a  young 
girl,  tall,  slim  but  at  the  same  time  strongly  built,  her 
waist  well  poised  above  her  curved  and  ample  hips,  show- 
ing the  vigour  of  youth.  Her  face,  of  a  rice-like  pale- 
ness, flushed  as  she  saw  the  torero,  and  her  eyes  fell, 
hidden  beneath  their  long  lashes. 

That  gachi  knows  me,  .  .  .  thought  Gallardo  vainly, 
most  probably  she  has  seen  me  in  the  Plaza. 

But  after  following  the  young  girl  and  her  aunt  he 
learnt  that  it  was  Carmen,  the  playmate  of  his  childhood, 
and  he  felt  confused  and  delighted  at  the  marvellous 
transformation  of  the  little  black  lizard  of  former  days. 

In  a  short  time  they  became  betrothed,  and  all  the 
neighbours  spoke  of  the  courtship,  which  they  considered 
so  flattering  to  the  suburb. 

"I  am  like  that,"  said  Gallardo,  assuming  the  air  of  a 
good  prince.  "I  do  not  care  to  imitate  those  toreros 
who,  when  they  marry  ladies,  marry  nothing  but  hats, 
and  feathers  and  flounces,  I  prefer  what  belongs  to  my 
own  class,  a  rich  shawl,  a  good  figure,  grace  .  .  .  Ole, 
ya!" 

His  friends,  delighted,  hastened  to  praise  the  girl. 

A  queenly  presence,  curves  that  would  drive  anyone 
mad,  and  such  a  figure  .  .  . 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  89 

But  the  torero  frowned.  Enough  of  these  jests  if  you 
please.  Eh?  And  the  less  you  all  talk  of  Carmen  the 
better. 

One  night,  as  he  was  talking  with  her  through  the 
iron  grating  of  her  window,  and  looking  at  her  Moorish 
face  framed  among  the  pots  of  flowers,  the  waiter  from 
a  neighbouring  tavern  came  bearing  a  tray  on  which  stood 
two  glasses  of  Manzanilla.  It  was  the  messenger  come 
to  *'Cobrar  el  piso,"  ^  the  traditional  Sevillian  custom, 
which  allows  of  this  offering  to  fiances  as  they  talk  at 
the  grating. 

The  torero  drank  a  glass,  offering  the  other  to  Carmen, 
and  then  said  to  the  boy : 

"Thank  these  gentlemen  very  much  from  me,  and  say 
I  will  look  in  presently;  .  .  .  tell  Montaiies  also  that  he 
is  not  to  take  any  payment  from  them,  for  Juan  Gallardo 
will  pay  for  everything." 

And  as  soon  as  his  interview  with  his  lady-love  was 
ended,  he  walked  across  to  the  tavern  where  those  who 
had  offered  the  civility  were  waiting  for  him,  some  of 
them  friends,  others  strangers,  but  all  anxious  to  drink 
a  glass  at  the  espada's  expense. 

On  his  return  from  his  first  tour  as  recognized  matador, 
he  spent  his  nights  standing  by  the  iron  grating  of  Car- 
men's window,  wrapped  in  his  elegant  and  luxurious  cape 
of  a  greenish  cloth  embroidered  with  sprays  and  ara- 
besques in  black  silk. 

"They  tell  me  you  drink  a  great  deal,"  sighed  Carmen, 
pressing  her  face  against  the  iron  grating. 

"What  nonsense!  .  .  .  Only  the  civilities  of  my 
friends  that  I  am  obliged  to  return,  nothing  more.  And 
besides,  you  see,  a  torero  is  ...  a  torero,  and  he  cannot 
Hve  like  a  brother  of  'the  Mercy.'  " 

"They  tell  me  also  that  you  go  with  loose  women." 

*  Lit. — recover  the  rent — something  akin  to  paying  the  footing. 


90  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"Lies!  .  .  .  That  might  have  been  in  former  days 
before  I  knew  you.  Rascals!  Curse  them!  I  should 
like  to  know  who  the  slanderers  are  who  whisper  such 
things  to  you.  .  .  ." 

"And  when  shall  we  be  married?"  she  continued,  cut- 
ting short  her  lover's  indignation  by  this  query. 

"As  soon  as  the  house  is  finished,  and  would  to  God 
that  were  to-morrow!  That  blockhead,  my  brother-in- 
law,  never  gets  done  with  it.  The  rascal  finds  it  profit- 
able and  rests  on  his  oars." 

"I  will  get  everything  into  order  when  we  are  mar- 
ried, Juaniyo.  You  will  see,  everything  will  go  on  all 
right,  and  you  will  see  how  your  mother  loves  me." 

And  so  the  dialogues  went  on,  while  they  were  waiting 
for  the  marriage  of  which  all  Seville  was  talking.  Car- 
men's uncle  talked  over  the  affair  with  Senora  Angustias, 
whenever  they  met,  but  all  the  same,  the  torero  scarcely 
ever  set  foot  in  Carmen's  house,  it  seemed  as  though 
some  terrible  prohibition  forbade  him  the  door,  anyhow 
the  two  preferred  to  see  each  other  at  the  grating  ac- 
cording to  custom. 

The  winter  was  passing  by,  Gallardo  rode  and  hunted 
over  the  country  estates  of  several  wealthy  gentlemen, 
who  used  the  familiar  "thou"  with  a  patronizing  air.  It 
was  necessary  for  him  to  preserve  his  bodily  agility  by 
continual  exercise,  till  the  time  of  the  corridas  came 
round  again.  He  was  afraid  of  losing  his  great  advant- 
ages of  strength  and  lightness. 

The  most  indefatigable  advertiser  of  his  fame  was 
Don  Jose,  the  gentleman  who  acted  as  his  agent,  and 
who  called  him  "his  own  matador."  He  had  a  hand  in 
every  act  of  Gallardo's,  not  even  yielding  any  prior 
claims  to  "the  family."  He  lived  on  his  own  income, 
and  had  no  other  employment  than  that  of  talking  per- 
petually of  bulls  and  toreros.     For  him  there  was  noth- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  91 

tag  interesting  in  the  world  beyond  corridas,  and  he  di- 
vided the  nations  into  two  classes,  the  elect  who  had 
bull-rings,  and  the  numberless  others  who  had  neither 
sun,  gaiety,  nor  good  Manzanilla,  and  yet  thought  them- 
selves powerful  and  happy,  although  they  had  never 
seen  even  the  worst  run  of  novillos. 

He  carried  to  his  love  of  "the  sport"  the  energy  of  a 
champion  of  the  faith,  or  of  an  inquisitor.  Although  he 
was  young  he  was  stout  and  slightly  bald  with  a  light 
beard;  but  this  sociable  man,  so  jovial  and  laughter-lov- 
ing in  ordinary  life,  was  fierce  and  unbending  on  the 
benches  of  a  Plaza,  if  his  neighbours  expressed  opinions 
differing  from  his  own.  He  felt  himself  capable  of  fight- 
ing the  whole  audience  for  a  torero  he  liked,  and  he  dis- 
turbed the  plaudits  of  the  public  by  unexpected  objec- 
tions, when  those  plaudits  were  given  to  any  torero  who 
had  not  been  lucky  enough  to  gain  his  affection. 

He  had  been  a  cavalry  officer,  more  on  account  of  his 
love  of  horses  than  of  his  love  of  war.  His  stoutness 
and  his  enthusiasm  for  bulls  had  made  him  retire  from 
the  service.  .  .  .  Oh!  to  be  the  guide,  the  mentor,  the 
agent  of  an  espada ! 

When  he  became  possessed  of  this  vehement  desire,  all 
the  "maestros"  were  already  provided,  so  the  advent  of 
Gallardo  was  a  God-send  to  him.  The  slightest  doubt 
cast  on  his  hero's  merits  made  him  crimson  with  rage, 
and  he  generally  ended  by  turning  a  bull-fighting  dis- 
cussion into  a  personal  quarrel.  He  considered  it  a 
glorious  heroic  act  to  have  come  to  blows  with  two  evil 
minded  amateurs  who  censured  "his  own  matador"  for 
being  too  bold. 

The  press  seemed  to  him  quite  insufficient  to  proclaim 
Gallardo's  fame,  so  on  winter  mornings  he  would  go 
and  sit  at  a  sunny  corner  at  the  entrance  of  the  Calle  de 
las  Sierpes,  through  which  most  of  his  friends  passed. 


92  BLOOI/  AND  SAND 

"No.  There  is  only  one  man !"  he  would  say  in  a  loud 
voice  as  if  talking  to  himself,  pretending  not  to  see  the 
people  who  were  approaching.  "The  first  man  in  the 
world!  If  anyone  thinks  the  contrary  let  him  speak  .  .  . 
Yes,  the  only  man!" 

"Who?"  enquired  his  friends  chuckling,  pretending 
not  to  understand. 

"Who  should  it  be?"  .  .  .  "Juan." 

"What  Juan?" 

A  gesture  of  indignation  and  surprise. 

"What  Juan  is  it  ?  As  if  there  were  many  Juans !  .  .  . 
Juan  Gallardo." 

"Bless  the  man!"  said  some  of  them,  "one  would  think 
it  was  you  who  were  going  to  marry  him !" 

Seeing  other  friends  approaching  he  ignored  their 
chaff,  and  began  again: 

"No,  there  is  only  one  man !  .  .  .  The  first  man  in  the 
world !  If  anyone  doesn't  believe  it,  let  him  open  his 
beak!  .  .  .  here  am  I  to  answer!" 

Gallardo's  wedding  was  a  great  event.  At  the  same 
time  the  new  house  was  inaugurated,  of  which  the  sad- 
dler was  so  proud,  that  he  showed  the  patio,  the  columns, 
and  the  Moorish  tiles,  as  if  they  were  all  the  work  of 
his  own  hands. 

They  were  married  in  San  Gil,  before  the  "Virgin  of 
Hope,"  also  called  la  Macarena.  As  they  came  out  of 
the  church  the  sun  shone  on  the  tropical  flowers  and 
painted  birds  on  hundreds  of  shawls  of  Chinese  design, 
worn  by  the  bride's  friends.  A  deputy  was  best  man, 
among  the  black  or  white  felt  hats,  shone  the  tall  silk 
ones  of  his  agent  and  other  gentlemen,  enthusiastic  sup- 
porters of  Gallardo,  who  smiled,  well  pleased  with  the 
increase  of  popularity  they  gained  by  being  seen  at  the 
torero's  side. 

At  the  house  door  during  the  day  there  was  a  distri- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  93 

bution  of  alms;  many  poor  people  had  come  even  from 
distant  villages,  attracted  by  the  reports  of  this  splendid 
wedding. 

There  was  a  grand  repast  in  the  patio  and  several  pho- 
tographers took  snapshots  for  the  Madrid  papers,  for 
Gallardo's  wedding  was  a  national  event.  Well  on  in 
the  night  the  melancholy  tinkling  of  the  guitars  was  still 
going  on,  accompanied  by  the  rhythmic  clapping  of  hands 
and  the  rattle  of  castanets.  The  girls,  their  arms  raised, 
danced  with  dainty  feet  on  the  marble  pavement,  and 
skirts  and  shawls  waved  round  the  pretty  figures  in  the 
rhythm  of  Sevillanas.  Bottle  of  rich  Andalusian  wine 
were  opened  by  the  dozen,  glasses  of  hot  Jerez,  of  heady 
Montilla,  and  Manzanilla  of  San  Lucar,  pale  and  per- 
fumed, passed  from  hand  to  hand.  They  were  all  tipsy, 
but  their  drunkenness  was  gentle,  quiet,  and  melancholy, 
and  only  betrayed  itself  in  their  sighs  and  songs;  often 
several  would  start  at  once  singing  melancholy  airs,  which 
spoke  of  prisons,  murders  and  the  "poor  mother/*  that 
eternal  theme  of  Andalusian  popular  songs. 

At  midnight  the  last  of  the  guests  departed,  and  the 
newly-married  couple  were  left  alone  in  their  house 
with  Senora  Angustias.  The  saddler  on  leaving  made  a 
gesture  of  despair;  tipsy,  he  was  besides  furious,  for  no 
one  had  taken  any  notice  of  him  during  the  day.  Just 
as  if  he  were  a  nobody!  As  if  he  did  not  belong  to  the 
family ! 

"They  are  turning  us  out,  Encarnacion.  That  girl  with 
her  face  like  the  'Virgin  of  Hope,'  v.ill  be  mistress  of 
everything,  and  there  will  not  even  be  tliat  for  us !  You 
will  see  the  house  full  of  children !  .  .  ." 

And  the  prolific  husband  became  furious  at  the  idea 
of  the  posterity  that  would  come  to  the  espada,  a  pos- 
terity sent  into  the  world  with  the  sole  object  of  damag- 
ing his  own  children. 


94  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Time  went  by  and  a  year  passed  without  Senor  An- 
tonio's prognostications  being  verified.  Gallardo  and 
Carmen  went  to  all  the  fetes,  with  the  ostentation  and 
show  suitable  to  a  rich  and  popular  couple.  Carmen 
with  Manila  shawls  which  drew  cries  of  admiration 
from  poorer  women;  Gallardo  displaying  all  his  dia- 
monds, ever  ready  to  take  out  his  purse  to  treat  friends, 
or  to  help  the  beggars  who  came  in  swarms.  The  gitanas, 
loquacious  and  copper  coloured  as  witches,  besieged 
Carmen  with  their  good  auguries  .  .  .  Might  God  bless 
her !  She  would  soon  have  a  child,  a  "churumbel"  more 
beautiful  than  the  sun.  They  knew  it  by  the  whites  of 
her  eyes.    It  was  already  half  way  on  .  .  . 

But  in  vain  Carmen  dropped  her  eyes  and  blushed  with 
modesty  and  pleasure;  in  vain  the  espada  drew  himself 
up,  proud  of  his  work,  and  hoped  the  prediction  would 
come  true.    But  still  the  child  did  not  come. 

So  another  year  passed,  and  still  the  hopes  of  the 
couple  were  not  realized.  Seiiora  Angustias  became  sad 
as  she  spoke  of  their  disappointment.  She  certainly  had 
other  grandchildren,  the  children  of  Encamacion,  whom 
the  saddler  was  careful  should  spend  most  of  their  time 
in  their  grandmother's  house,  doing  their  best  to  please 
their  Senor  tio.^  But  she,  who  wished  to  compensate 
for  her  former  unkindness  by  the  warm  affection  she 
now  showed  Juan,  wished  to  have  a  son  of  his  to  bring  up 
in  her  own  way,  giving  it  all  the  love  she  had  been  un- 
able to  give  its  father  during  his  miserable  childhood. 

*T  know  what  it  is,"  said  the  old  woman  sadly,  "poor 
Carmen  has  too  many  anxieties,  you  should  see  the 
poor  thing  when  Juan  is  wandering  about  the 
world !  .  .  ." 

During  the  winter,  the  season  of  rest  when  the  torero 
was  for  the  most  part  at  home,  or  only  went  into  the 

*  Uncle. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  95 

country  for  the  "trials"  of  young  bulls  or  for  hunting 
parties,  all  went  well.  Carmen  was  happy,  knowing  her 
husband  ran  no  risks;  she  laughed  at  anything,  ate,  and 
her  face  was  bright  with  the  hues  of  health.  But  as  soon 
as  the  spring  time  came  round,  and  Juan  left  home  to 
fight  in  the  different  Plazas  in  Spain,  the  poor  girl  be- 
came pale  and  weak,  and  fell  into  a  painful  languor, 
her  eyes,  dilated  by  terror,  ready  to  shed  tears  on  the 
slightest  occasion. 

"He  has  seventy-two  corridas  this  year,"  said  the  inti- 
mates of  the  house,  speaking  of  the  espada's  engagements. 
"No  one  is  so  sought  after  as  he  is." 

Carmen  smiled  with  a  sorrowful  face.  Seventy-two 
afternoons  of  anguish,  in  the  chapel  like  a  criminal  con- 
demned to  death,  longing  for  the  arrival  of  the  telegram 
in  the  evening,  and  yet  dreading  to  open  it.  Seventy- 
two  days  of  terror,  of  vague  superstitions,  thinking  that 
one  word  forgotten  in  a  prayer  might  influence  the  fate 
of  the  absent  one;  seventy-two  days  of  pained  surprise 
at  living  in  a  great  house,  seeing  the  same  people,  and 
finding  life  go  on  in  its  usual  way;  as  though  nothing 
extraordinary  was  going  on  in  the  world,  hearing  hef 
husband's  nephews  playing  in  the  patio,  and  the  flower 
sellars  crying  their  wares  outside  while  down  there  far 
away,  in  unknown  towns,  her  beloved  Juan  was  fighting 
those  fierce  beasts  before  thousands  of  eyes,  and  seeing 
death  lightly  pass  by  his  breast  with  every  wave  of  the 
red  rag  that  he  carried  in  his  hand. 

Ay!  those  days  of  a  corrida,  those  holidays,  when  the 
sky  seemed  bluer,  and  the  usually  solitary  street  echoed 
beneath  the  holiday  maker's  footsteps,  when  guitars 
tinkled,  accompanied  by  hand  clappings  and  songs  in  the 
tavern  at  the  corner !  .  .  .  Then  Carmen,  plainly  dressed, 
with  her  mantilla  over  her  eyes,  flying  from  those  evil 
dreams,  would  leave  her  house  to  take  refuge  in  a  church. 


96  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Her  simple  faith,  whicli  anxiety  peopled  with  va^e 
superstitions,  made  her  go  from  altar  to  altar,  weighing 
in  her  mind  the  merits  and  miracles  of  each  image. 
Some  days  she  would  go  to  San  Gil,  the  popular  church 
which  had  witnessed  the  happiest  day  of  her  life,  to  kneel 
before  the  Virgin  de  la  Macarena.  By  the  light  of  the 
numerous  tapers  she  ordered  to  be  lighted,  she  would 
gaze  at  the  dark  face  of  that  statue  with  its  black  eyes 
and  long  lashes,  which  many  said  so  singularly  resembled 
her  own.  In  her  she  trusted,  she  was  not  "the  Lady  of 
Hope"  for  nothing,  surely  at  that  time  she  was  protect- 
ing Juan  with  her  divine  power. 

But  suddenly  uncertainty  and  fear  crept  through  her 
beliefs,  rending  them.  The  Virgin  was  only  a  woman, 
and  women  can  do  so  little!  Their  fate  is  to  suffer  and 
to  weep,  as  she  was  weeping  for  her  husband,  as  that 
other  had  wept  for  her  Son.  She  must  confide  in 
stronger  powers,  so  with  the  egoism  of  pain,  she  aban- 
doned la  Macarena  without  scruple,  like  a  useless  friend, 
and  went  to  the  church  of  San  Lorenzo  in  search  of 
"Our  Father,  Jesus  of  Great  Power."  The  Man-God 
with  His  crown  of  thorns,  and  His  cross  by  His  side, 
perspiring,  and  tearful,  an  image  that  the  sculptor  Mon- 
tafies  had  known  how  to  make  terrifying. 

The  dramatic  sadness  of  the  Nazarene,  stumbling  over 
the  stones,  borne  down  by  the  v/eight  of  His  cross, 
seemed  to  console  the  poor  wife.  The  Lord  of  Great 
Power!  .  .  .  this  vague  but  grandiose  title  tranquihsed 
her.  If  that  God  dressed  in  purple  velvet  with  gold  em- 
broideries would  only  listen  to  her  sighs  and  prayers, 
repeated  hurriedly,  with  dizzy  rapidity,  so  that  the  great- 
est possible  number  of  words  should  be  said  in  the 
shortest  possible  time,  she  was  sure  that  Juan  would 
come  safe  and  sound  out  of  the  arena,  where  he  was  at 
that  moment  fighting.     At  other  times  she  would  give 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  97 

money  to  a  sacristan  to  light  some  wax  tapers  and  wcruld 
spend  hours  watching  the  rosy  reflection  of  the  red 
tongues  on  the  image,  fancying  she  saw  on  its  varnished 
face  in  the  changing  light  and  shadow,  smiles  of  conso- 
lation, which  augured  happiness. 

The  Lord  of  Great  Power  did  not  deceive  her.  When 
she  returned  to  her  house  the  little  blue  paper  arrived, 
which  she  opened  with  trembling  hands.  "Nothing  new." 
She  could  breathe  again,  and  sleep,  like  the  criminal  who 
is  freed  for  the  moment  from  the  fear  of  instant  death, 
but  in  two  or  three  days  the  torment  of  uncertainty,  the 
terrible  fear  of  the  unknown,  would  begin  afresh. 

In  spite  of  the  love  Carmen  professed  for  her  hus- 
band, there  were  times  when  her  heart  rose  in  rebellion. 
If  she  had  only  known  what  this  life  was  before  her 
marriage!  .  .  .  Now  and  then,  impelled  by  the  com- 
munity of  suffering  she  would  go  and  see  the  wives  of 
the  men  who  composed  Juan's  cuadrilla,  as  if  those 
women  could  give  her  news. 

The  wife  of  El  Nacional,  who  had  a  tavern  in  the  same 
quarter,  received  the  chief's  wife  tranquilly,  and  seemed 
surprised  at  her  fears.  She  was  used  to  the  life,  and 
her  husband  must  be  quite  well  as  he  sent  no  news. 
Telegrams  were  dear,  and  a  banderillero  earned  little 
enough.  When  the  newspaper  sellers  did  not  shout  an 
accident,  it  meant  that  nothing  untoward  had  happened, 
and  she  went  on  attending  to  the  affairs  of  her  tavern,  as 
if  anxiety  could  not  penetrate  the  hard  rind  of  her 
susceptibilities. 

Other  times  she  would  cross  the  bridge  and  penetrate 
into  the  suburb  of  Triana,  in  search  of  the  wife  of  Potaje 
the  picador,  a  kind  of  gitana,  who  lived  in  a  hovel  like 
a  fowl  house,  surrounded  by  dirty  copper  coloured  brats, 
whom  she  ordered  about  and  terrified  by  her  stentorian 
shouts.     The  visit  of  the  chief's   wife  filled   her  with 


98  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

pride,  but  her  anxieties  made  her  laugh.  She  ought  not 
to  be  afraid,  the  men  on  foot  nearly  always  got  clear  of 
the  bull,  and  the  Senor  Juan  was  very  lucky  in  throwing 
himself  on  the  beast.  Bulls  killed  few  people,  the  ter- 
rible things  were  the  falls  from  horse-back.  It  was 
well  known  what  was  the  end  of  nearly  all  picadors  after 
a  life  of  horrible  tosses :  he  who  did  not  end  his  life  in  an 
unforeseen  and  sudden  accident,  generally  died  mad. 
No  doubt  poor  Potaje  would  die  in  this  way,  he  would 
have  endured  all  these  hardships  for  a  handful  of  duros, 
whereas  others  .  .  . 

She  did  not  conclude  her  sentence,  but  her  eyes  ex- 
pressed a  mute  protest  against  the  injustice  of  fate, 
against  those  fine  fellows  who  directly  they  handled  a 
sword,  appropriated  all  the  plaudits,  the  popularity,  and 
the  money,  running  no  more  risk  than  their  humble  col- 
leagues. 

Little  by  little  Carmen  became  accustomed  to  the  ex- 
istence. The  cruel  waits  on  the  days  of  a  corrida,  the 
visits  to  the  saints,  the  superstitions,  doubts,  were  all 
accepted  as  forming  part  and  parcel  of  her  life.  Besides 
her  husband's  usual  good  luck,  and  the  constant  conver- 
sation in  the  house  on  the  chances  of  the  fight,  ended  by 
familiarizing  her  with  the  danger.  And  at  last  the  bull 
came  to  be  for  her  a  fairly  good-natured  and  noble  ani- 
mal, who  had  come  into  the  world  for  the  express  pur- 
pose of  enriching  and  giving  fame  to  their  matadors. 

She  had  never  been  to  a  corrida  of  bulls.  Since  the 
afternoon  when  she  had  seen  her  future  husband  at  his 
first  novillada,  she  had  never  been  near  the  Plaza.  She 
felt  she  should  not  have  the  courage  to  see  a  corrida, 
even  though  Gallardo  were  taking  no  part  in  it.  She 
should  faint  with  terror  seeing  other  men  face  the  danger, 
dressed  in  the  same  costume  as  Juan. 

After  they  had  been  married  three  years,  the  espada 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  99 

was  wounded  in  Valencia.  Carmen  did  not  hear  of  it 
at  once.  The  telegram  came  at  the  usual  hour,  bearing 
the  habitual  "nothing  new,"  and  it  was  through  the  kind- 
ness of  Don  Jose,  who  visited  Carmen  daily  and  per- 
formed clever  sleight  of  hand  tricks  to  prevent  her  seeing 
the  papers,  that  the  news  was  kept  from  her  for  over  a 
week. 

When  through  the  indiscretion  of  some  neighbours 
Carmen  at  last  heard  of  the  accident,  she  wished  at  once 
to  take  the  train  to  join  her  husband,  and  nurse  him, 
feeling  sure  he  was  neglected.  But  there  was  no  need, 
the  espada  arrived  before  she  could  leave,  pale  from  loss 
of  blood,  and  obliged  to  keep  one  leg  quiet  for  some  time, 
but  gay  and  jaunty  in  order  to  reassure  his  family. 

The  house  became  at  once  a  kind  of  sanctuary,  all 
sorts  of  people  passed  through  the  patio,  in  order  to 
salute  Gallardo  "the  first  man  in  the  world,"  who,  sitting 
in  a  cane  arm-chair,  with  his  leg  on  a  footstool,  smoked 
quietly,  as  though  his  flesh  had  not  been  torn  by  a  hor- 
rible wound. 

Doctor  Ruiz,  who  had  brought  him  back  to  Seville, 
declaring  he  would  be  cured  in  a  month,  was  astonished 
at  the  vigour  of  his  constitution.  The  facility  with  which 
toreros  were  cured  was  a  mystery  for  him,  in  spite  of 
his  long  practice  as  a  surgeon.  The  horn,  filthy  with 
blood  and  excrement,  very  often  broken  at  the  ends  by 
blows  into  small  splinters,  broke  the  flesh,  lacerated  it, 
perforated  it,  so  that  it  was  at  the  same  time  a  deep 
penetrating  wound,  and  a  crushing  bruise,  but  all  the 
same  these  awful  wounds  were  cured  far  more  easily 
than  those  of  daily  life. 

"How  it  can  be  I  know  not — it  is  a  mystery" — said 
the  old  surgeon,  much  perplexed.  "Either  these  lads 
have  flesh  like  a  dog,  or  the  horn  in  spite  of  its  filth  has 
some  curative  property  unknown  to  us." 


icx>  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Shortly  afterwards  Gallardo  recommenced  fighting,  his 
wound,  in  spite  of  his  enemies'  predictions,  having  in  no 
way  abated  his  fighting  ardour. 

After  they  had  been  married  about  four  years,  the  es- 
pada  gave  his  wife  and  mother  a  great  surprise.  They 
were  going  to  become  landed  proprietors — proprietors  on 
a  large  scale — with  lands  of  which  they  could  not  see  the 
end,  olive  yards,  mills,  herds  innumerable,  an  estate  as  fine 
as  that  of  the  richest  men  in  Seville. 

Gallardo  was  like  all  toreros  who  only  dream  of  being 
owners  of  the  soil,  and  to  be  horse  and  cattle  breeders. 
Town  property,  stocks  and  shares  in  no  way  tempt  them, 
and  they  understand  nothing  whatever  about  them.  But 
bulls  make  them  think  of  the  broad  plains,  and  horses  re- 
mind them  of  the  country;  besides,  the  necessity  of  con- 
stant movement  and  exercise  by  hunting  and  walking 
during  the  winter  months  adds  to  their  desire  to  possess 
the  soil. 

According  to  Gallardo's  ideas,  no  one  could  be  rich 
unless  he  owned  a  large  farm,  and  immense  herds  of 
cattle.  Ever  since  the  years  of  his  poverty,  when  he  had 
wandered  on  foot,  through  the  cultivated  lands  and  pas- 
tures, he  had  always  nourished  the  fervent  desire  of  pos- 
sessing leagues  and  leagues  of  land,  that  should  be  his 
very'  own,  and  that  should  be  enclosed  by  strong  palings 
from  the  trespass  of  other  people. 

Don  Jose  knew  of  this  wish.  He  it  was  who  ran  Gal- 
lardo's affairs,  receiving  the  money  due  to  him  from  the 
different  managers,  and  keeping  accounts  which  he  en- 
deavoured in  vain  to  explain  to  the  matador. 

"I  don't  understand  that  music,"  said  Gallardo,  rather 
pleased  at  his  own  ignorance.  *T  only  understand  how 
to  kill  bulls.  Do  whatever  you  like,  Don  Jose.  I  am 
quit^  confident  that  whatever  you  do  will  be  for  the 
bejsl  " 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  loi 

And  Don  Jose,  who  never  looked  after  his  own  af- 
fairs, leaving  them  to  his  wife's  rather  ineffectual  man- 
agement, thought  day  and  night  of  the  matador's  for- 
tune, investing  the  money  at  good  interest,  with  the  keen- 
ness of  a  money-lender. 

One  day  he  came  gaily  to  his  protege. 

"I  have  got  what  you  longed  for — an  estate  as  big  as 
the  world,  and  very  cheap — a  splendid  bargain.  Next 
week  we  shall  sign  all  the  papers," 

Gallardo  enquired  the  name  and  situation  of  the  do- 
main. 

"It  is  called  La  Rinconada." 

His  dearest  wishes  were  fulfilled. 

When  Gallardo  went  with  his  wife  and  mother  to  take 
possession  of  the  Grange,  he  showed  them  the  hay-loft 
where  he  had  slept  with  his  companions  in  misery,  the 
room  where  he  had  dined  with  the  former  owner,  the 
little  Plaza  where  he  had  killed  the  yearling,  thereby 
earning  for  the  first  time  the  right  to  travel  bj  train 
without  being  obliged  to  hide  himself  under  the  seats 


CHAPTER   III 

During  the  winter  months,  when  Gallardo  was  not  at 
La  Rinconada,  a  party  of  his  friends  gathered  every 
evening  in  his  dining-room  after  supper. 

The  first  to  arrive  were  always  the  saddler  and  his 
wife,  two  of  whose  children  lived  in  the  espada's  house. 
Carmen,  as  though  she  wished  to  forget  her  own  sterility, 
and  felt  the  silence  of  the  big  house  oppress  her,  kept 
her  sister-in-law's  two  youngest  children  with  her.  These 
children,  from  natural  affection  and  also  probably  by 
their  parents*  express  orders,  were  perpetually  petting 
their  beautiful  aunt  and  their  generous  and  popular  un- 
cle, kissing  them  and  purring  on  their  knees  like  kittens. 

Encarnacion,  now  almost  as  stout  and  heavy  as  her 
mother,  her  figure  deformed  by  the  birth  of  her  numer- 
ous children,  while  advancing  years  were  bringing  a 
slight  moustache  to  her  upper  lip,  smiled  cringingly  at 
her  sister-in-law,  apologizing  for  the  trouble  her  chil- 
dren gave. 

But  before  Carmen  could  reply  the  saddler  broke  in: 

"Leave  them  alone,  wife!  They  are  so  fond  of  their 
uncle  and  aunt !  The  little  girl  especially,  she  cannot  live 
without  her  'titita'  *  Carmen." 

So  the  two  children  lived  there  as  if  it  were  their  own 
house,  guessing,  with  their  infantile  cunning,  what  was 
expected  of  them  by  their  parents,  exaggerating  their 
caresses  and  pettings  of  those  rich  relations,  of  whom 
they  heard  everyone  speak  with  respect. 

As  soon  as  supper  was  ended,  they  kissed  the  hands  of 
*  Little  aunt 

102 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  103 

Sefiora  Angustias  and  of  their  father  and  mother,  threw 
their  arms  round  the  necks  of  Gallardo  and  his  wife,  and 
then  left  the  room  to  go  to  bed. 

The  grandmother  occupied  an  armchair  at  the  head  of 
the  table.  But  when  the  espada  had  guests — and  they 
were  all  people  of  a  certain  social  position — she  refused 
to  take  the  place  of  honour,  but  Gallardo  insisted. 

"No,"  protested  Gallardo,  "the  little  mother  must  pre- 
side. Sit  you  down  there,  mother,  or  we  won't  have  any 
supper." 

Offering  her  his  arm,  he  would  conduct  her  to  her 
chair,  lavishing  on  her  the  most  affectionate  caresses,  as 
if  he  wished  to  make  up  for  the  torments  his  vagabond 
youth  had  caused  her. 

When  El  Nacional  looked  in  during  the  evening  for  an 
hour,  rather  with  the  feeling  of  fulfilling  a  duty  towards 
his  chief,  the  party  became  more  lively.  Gallardo,  wear^ 
ing  a  rich  zamorra,^  like  a  wealthy  landowner,  his  head 
bare,  and  the  pig-tail  smoothed  forward  almost  to  his 
forehead,  welcomed  his  banderillero  with  loquacious 
amiability.  What  were  the  amateurs  of  "the  sport"  say- 
ing? What  lies  were  they  spreading?  How  were  the 
affairs  of  the  Republic  getting  on  ? 

"Garabato,  give  Sebastian  a  glass  of  wine." 

But  El  Nacional  refused  the  prof  erred  civility.  No 
wine,  thanks,  he  never  drank.  W^ine  was  the  cause  of 
all  the  working  classes  being  so  hopelessly  behindhand. 
All  the  assembly  burst  out  laughing,  as  if  something 
amusing  had  been  said  which  they  were  expecting,  and 
the  banderillero  began  at  once  to  air  his  opinions. 

The  only  one  who  remained  silent,  with  hostile  eyes, 

was  the  saddler.     He  hated  El  Nacional,  seeing  in  him 

an  enemy.     He  also,  like  a  good  and  faithful  husband, 

was  prolific,  and  a  swarm  of  brats  tumbled  about  the 

*  Sleeveless  coat,  generally  of  sheep  or  goat  skin. 


104  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

taverr:.  hanging  on  to  their  mD'Jier's  skirts.  The  tv,'0 
yc.:r.::e5t  were  g:i:r.!:ren  f  -  ardo  and  his  wife,  so 
tha:  \^^  thi?  v.ay  ::.-:■:   ..:--  a  ::::  cf  connection  between 

the  tv.  :■.  Hypc:r::t!  Z-.t:>'  Sur.  ::--y  he  brought  tbe  two 
children,  dres^ei  in  :'r.z::  ':-::  ::  h:i-  ij^t  hmis  of  their 
g:h:_.i-ent5.  ar.d  :h-r  s^if^er  ^"tv,-  ;a!e  v.-hh  anger  when- 
ever Ej  Xacionahf  :'r.[\i:t7.  rt reive i  ir.y  yre-ent.  "He 
caxne  to  rob  their  cv.r.  children.  F:£i:h'y  the  tinderil- 
lero  even  dreamed  thi:  :art  oi  Ga'.Iard:  s  :::tune  might 
come  to  tb.ose  gcdthhiren.  Thief.  A  man  who  dio  r. ot 
even  belong  to  the   farrh'.yl"   .   .   . 

When  the  sad  o'er  did  r.ot  receive  E!  Nacionahs  dis- 
ccu:5ci  ir.  stiihy  siiente  c"  •..ioit  i;:hs  c:  hitreo.  he  en- 
deavc'jred  to  mortify  him  by  saying  that  in  his  opinion 
every  cne  %vho  prrooooteo  revoititior.ar/  ideas  among 
the  people  v,-as  a  danger  to  inonest  p-eop.e  and  ought  to 
be  shot  at  once. 

EI  Nacional  was  ten  years  older  than  his  chief,  '.'.'hen 
the  latter  wa^  lieoinnino  t:  boit  at  the  caoeas,  Setaftian 
•was   already  hanieriiiero   in   reoj^izeo   ooadriiia-h    and 

bulls  in  the  Pla2a  at  Lim.a.  At  the  ccmm.encement  of  his 
career  he  had  en;:;  el  a  certain  amtunt  of  otouiarity 
because  he  v.-a?  youn^  and  aoiie.  irde  aifo  f:r  s:me  htde 
time  had  h^^---:red  a;  "the  tirer:  of  tioe  future. "  and  the 
amateurs  of  Seviiie.  h:-:ing  their  eyes  en  him,  h:oed  that 

P'Ossiti;.-  nehuiiu?  feats,  all  the  populace  of  Seville 
r.;d'.::  t^i'  tite  Piooa  t:  see  him  kill.  Thousands  of  peo- 
ple coui:  net  obtoin  aont:::anoe.  iBut  at  thi?  mtment  of 
decisi-.e  oroef  "hir  heart  f.iieo  him,"  as  th-  amateurs 
said  Ke  planted  the  banoeriilas  steadily  as  a  serious 
^  Cuahrihis  ce  cartel. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  105 

and  conscientious  worker  fulfilling  his  duty,  but  \^^en  it 
was  a  case  of  killing,  the  instinct  of  self-preservation, 
stronger  than  his  will,  kept  him  at  a  distance  from  the 
bull,  and  he  was  unable  to  take  advantage  of  his  great 
stature  and  his  strong  arm. 

El  Nacional  therefore  renounced  the  higher  glories  of 
tauromachia,  he  would  be  a  banderillero  and  nothing 
more.  He  must  resign  himself  to  being,  as  it  were,  a 
day  labourer  of  his  art,  serving  others  younger  than  him- 
self, in  order  to  earn  the  poor  wages  of  peon,  vr ith  which 
to  maintain  his  family,  and  save  sufficient  to  start  some 
small  business.  His  kindness  and  his  honourable  habits 
were  proverbial  among  his  colleagues  of  the  pig-tail, 
consequently  his  chief's  wife  was  much  attached  to  him, 
seeing  in  him  a  kind  of  guardian  angel  of  her  husband's 
fidelity.  When  in  summer  Gallardo,  with  all  his  men, 
went  to  a  cafe  chantant  in  some  provincial  town,  anxious 
to  enjoy  himself  and  have  a  fling.  El  Nacional  would 
stand  silent  and  grave  among  the  singers  in  diaphanous 
dresses,  with  painted  mouths,  like  some  ancient  Father 
of  the  desert  amid  the  Alexandrian  courtezans. 

It  was  not  that  he  felt  shocked,  but  he  thought  of  his 
wife  and  little  ones  down  in  Seville.  According  to  him 
all  the  defects  and  vices  in  the  world  were  the  result  of 
want  of  education,  and  most  certainly  those  poor  women 
knew  neither  how  to  read  nor  write.  It  was  also  the 
case  with  himself,  and  as  he  attributed  his  own  insignifi- 
cance and  poverty  of  brain  to  this  deficiency,  he  at- 
tributed to  the  same  cause  all  the  misery  and  degradation 
which  exists  in  the  world. 

In  his  early  youth  he  had  worked  as  a  founder,  and 
had  been  an  active  member  of  the  "International  of 
Workmen.'*  He  had  been  an  assiduous  listener  to  those 
of  his  fellow  workmen,  who,  happier  than  himself,  could 
read  aloud  what  was  said  in  the  papers  devoted  to  the 


io6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

welfare  of  the  people.  During  the  time  of  the  National 
Militia,  he  had  played  at  being  a  soldier,  figuring  in  those 
battalions  who  wore  a  red  cap  in  sign  of  their  federal 
"intransigeance."  He  had  spent  whole  days  in  front  of 
those  platforms  erected  in  public  places,  or  in  those  clubs 
which  had  declared  themselves  in  permanent  sitting, 
where  the  orators  succeeded  each  other  day  and  night, 
ranting  with  Andalusian  facility  on  the  divinity  of  Jesus, 
or  the  rise  in  price  of  articles  of  the  first  necessity,  till 
the  time  for  repression  came,  when  a  strike  left  him  in 
the  trying  position  of  being  a  workman  marked  for  his 
revolutionary  opinions,  and  excluded  from  every  work- 
shop. 

Then  as  he  was  fond  of  bull-runs,  he  became  torero  at 
twenty- four,  just  as  he  might  have  chosen  any  other  line 
of  life.  Besides,  he  knew  a  great  deal  and  spoke  with 
contempt  of  the  absurdities  of  existing  society.  He  had 
not  spent  many  years  listening  to  papers  being  read  in 
vain.  However  bad  a  torero  he  might  be,  he  would  earn 
more,  and  would  lead  an  easier  life  than  ever  so  skilled 
a  workman.  His  friends,  remembering  the  days  when  he 
shouldered  the  musket  of  the  National  Militia,  nick- 
named him  El  Nacional. 

He  always  spoke  of  the  taurine  profession  with  a  kind 
of  remorse,  apologising  for  belonging  to  it  in  spite  of  his 
many  years'  service.  The  committee  of  his  district  who 
had  decreed  the  expulsion  from  the  party  of  all  their  co- 
religionists who  attended  corridas,  as  being  barbarous 
and  retrograde,  had  made  an  exception  in  his  favour, 
keeping  him  on  the  list  of  voters. 

**I  am  well  aware,"  he  would  say  in  Gallardo's  dining- 
room,  "that  bull-fights  are  reactionary  .  .  .  something 
akin  to  the  days  of  the  Inquisition.  ...  I  do  not  know 
if  I  am  explaining  myself  clearly.  But  to  read  and  write 
is  quite  as  necessary  to  the  people  as  to  have  bread,  3v4 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  107 

it  is  wrong  that  money  should  be  spent  on  us,  while 
schools  are  so  sadly  wanted.  That  is  what  the  papers 
that  come  from  Madrid  say.  But  my  co-religionists  es- 
teem me,  and  the  committee  after  a  lecture  from  Don 
Joselito,  kept  me  on  the  register  of  the  party." 

His  great  gravity,  that  not  even  the  jokes  or  the  comic 
exaggerations  of  fury  on  the  part  of  the  espada  and 
his  friends  could  shake,  expressed  an  honourable  pride 
in  this  exceptional  favour  with  which  his  co-religionists 
had  honoured  him. 

Don  Joselito,  master  of  a  primary  school,  verbose  and 
enthusiastic,  who  presided  over  the  district  committee, 
was  a  young  man  of  Jewish  origin,  who  brought  into 
political  strife  all  the  ardour  of  the  Maccabees,  and  was 
proud  of  his  swarthy  ugliness,  pitted  with  smallpox, 
because  he  thought  it  made  him  resemble  Danton;  El 
Nacional  always  listened  to  him  open-mouthed. 

When  Don  Jose  and  the  maestro's  other  friends,  after 
dinner,  ironically  attacked  El  Nacional's  doctrines  with 
all  sorts  of  extravagant  arguments,  the  poor  man  would 
look  confused,  and  scratching  his  head  would  say : 

"You  are  gentlemen,  and  you  have  been  educated,  I 
know  neither  how  to  read  nor  write,  and  that  is  why  we 
of  the  lower  orders  are  such  simpletons.  Oh!  if  only 
Don  Joselito  were  here!  ...  By  the  life  of  the  blue 
dove!  If  only  you  could  hear  him  when  he  starts  speak- 
ing like  an  angel!"  .  .  . 

And  in  order  to  strengthen  his  faith,  perhaps  a  little 
shaken  by  these  attacks  of  ridicule,  he  would  go  next 
day  to  see  his  idol,  who  seemed  to  take  a  bitter  pleasure, 
as  a  descendant  of  the  great  persecuted  nation,  in  show- 
ing him  what  he  called  his  museum  of  horrors.  This 
Jew,  returned  to  the  natal  country  of  his  ancestors,  had 
collected  in  a  room  attacked  to  the  school  souvenirs  of 
the  Inquisition,  and  with  the  meticulous  vindictiveness  of 


io8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

a  fugitive  prisoner  endeavoured  to  reconstruct  hour  by 
hour  the  skeleton  of  his  jailor.  There  on  the  shelves  of 
a  cupboard  were  rows  of  books  and  parchments,  ac- 
counts of  autos  da  fe  and  lists  of  questions  wherewith 
to  interrogate  the  criminals  during  their  torture.  On 
one  wall  was  hung  a  white  banner  with  the  dreaded 
green  cross,  and  in  the  corner  were  piles  of  torturing 
irons,  fearful  scourges,  every  instrument  that  Don  Jose- 
lito  could  pick  up  on  the  hucksters'  stalls  that  had  been 
used  to  split,  to  tear  with  pincers,  or  to  shred,  which  was 
catalogued  immediately  as  an  ancient  possession  of  the 
Holy  Office. 

El  Nacional's  good-heartedness,  and  his  simple  soul, 
quick  to  feel  indignation,  rose  up  against  those  rusty 
irons  and  those  green  crosses. 

"Good  heavens !  .  .  .  And  there  are  people  who  say  .  .  . 
By  the  life  of  the  dove !  .  .  .  I  wish  I  had  some  of  them 
here." 

The  desire  of  proselytism  made  him  air  his  convictions 
on  every  occasion,  regardless  of  his  companion's  jests, 
but  even  in  this  he  showed  himself  kind-hearted,  as  he 
was  never  personally  bitter.  According  to  him,  those 
who  remained  indifferent  to  the  fate  of  the  country  and 
did  not  figure  on  the  party  register,  were  "poor  victims 
of  the  national  ignorance."  The  salvation  of  the  people 
depended  on  their  learning  to  read  and  write.  For  his 
own  part  he  was  obliged  modestly  to  renounce  this  re- 
generation, as  he  felt  himself  too  thick  skulled;  but  he 
made  the  whole  world  responsible  for  his  ignorance. 

Very  often  in  summer,  when  the  cuadrilla  was  trav- 
elling from  one  province  to  another,  and  Gallardo 
changed  into  the  second-class  carriage  where  "his  lads" 
were  travelling,  the  door  would  open  and  some  country 
priest  or  a  couple  of  friars  would  enter. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  109 

The  banderilleros  would  nudge  each  others'  elbows  and 
wink  as  they  looked  at  El  Nacional,  become  even  more 
grave  and  solemn  than  usual  in  presence  of  the  enemy. 
The  picadors,  Potaje  and  Tragabuches,  rough  and  ag- 
gressive fellows,  fond  of  quarrels  and  practical  jokes, 
who  besides  had  an  instinctive  dislike  to  the  cassocks, 
egged  him  on  in  a  low  voice. 

"Now  you  have  got  him!  .  .  .  Go  in  at  hira 
straight!  .  .  .  Give  him  one  in  the  eye  in  your  own 
fashion/'  .  .  . 

But  the  maestro,  with  his  authority  as  chief  of  the 
cuadrilla,  which  no  one  dare  to  contest  or  discuss,  rolled 
his  eyes  fiercely  as  he  looked  at  El  Nacional,  who  was 
obliged  to  observe  a  silent  obedience.  But  the  zeal  of 
proselytisra  was  stronger  in  this  simple  soul  than  his 
subordination,  and  one  insignificant  word  was  sufficient 
to  start  him  on  a  discussion  with  his  fellow  travellers, 
trying  to  convince  them  of  the  truth.  But  indeed  the 
truth,  according  to  him,  seemed  an  inextricable  and  tan- 
gled skein  of  ranting  that  he  had  gathered  from  Don 
Joselito. 

His  companions  looked  on  with  astonishment,  de- 
lighted that  one  of  their  own  set  could  make  head  against 
educated  men,  and  even  put  them  in  a  corner,  which  by 
the  way  might  not  be  very  difficult,  as  the  Spanish 
clergy,  as  a  rule,  are  not  highly  educated. 

The  priests,  bewildered  by  El  Nacional's  fiery  argu- 
ments and  the  laughter  of  the  other  toreros,  ended  by 
appealing  to  their  final  argument.  How  could  men  who 
exposed  their  lives  so  frequently  not  think  of  God,  and 
believe  such  things !  Did  they  not  think  that  at  that  very 
time  their  wives  and  their  mothers  were  most  probably 
praying  for  them? 

The  cuadrilla  became  suddenly  silent,  a  silence  of 
fear,  as  they  thought  of  the  holy  medals  and  scapularies 


no  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

that  their  women's  hands  had  sewn  into  their  fighting 
clothes  before  they  left  Seville.  The  espada,  wounded 
in  his  slumbering  superstitions,  was  furious  with  El 
National,  as  if  the  banderillero's  impiety  would  place  his 
own  life  in  danger. 

"Shut  up,  and  stop  your  blasphemies !  .  .  .  Your  par- 
don, Sirs,  I  pray  you.  He  is  a  good  fellow,  but  his  head 
has  been  turned  by  all  these  lies  .  .  .  Shut  up,  and  don't 
answer  me!  Curse  you!  ...  I  will  fill  your  mouth 
with  .  .  ." 

And  Gallardo,  to  appease  those  gentlemen  whom  he 
considered  as  depositaries  of  the  future,  overwhelmed 
the  banderillero  with  threats  and  curses. 

El  Nacional  took  refuge  in  a  contemptuous  silence. 
"It  was  all  ignorance  and  superstition,  all  from  not  know- 
ing how  to  read  and  write."  And  strong  in  his  faith,  with 
the  obstinacy  of  a  simple  man  who  only  possesses  two  or 
three  ideas  and  clutches  hold  of  them  in  the  face  of  the 
roughest  shocks,  he  would  shortly  afterwards  renew  the 
discussion  regardless  of  the  matador's  anger. 

His  anti-clericalism  did  not  leave  him  even  in  the  cir- 
cus among  those  peons  and  picadors,  who  having  said 
their  prayer  in  the  chapel,  entered  the  arena,  in  the  hope 
that  the  sacred  scapularies  sewn  into  their  clothes  would 
guard  them  from  danger. 

When  an  enormous  bull,  *'of  many  pounds,"  ^  as  it  is 
called,  with  a  powerful  neck  and  a  black  coat  arrived  at 
the  "turn"  of  the  banderilleros,  El  Nacional,  with  his 
arms  open  and  the  darts  in  his  hand,  would  stand  a  short 
distance  from  the  animal,  shouting  insultingly, — 

"Come  along,  priest  I" 

The  "priest"  threw  himself  furiously  on  El  Nacional, 
who  fixed  the  darts  firmly  in  his  neck  as  he  rushed  past, 
shouting  loudly  as  if  he  were  proclaiming  a  victory. 
'  Toro  de  libras. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  in 

One  for  the  clergy ! 

Gallardo  ended  by  laughing  at  El  Nacional's  extrava- 
gances. 

"You  are  making  me  ridiculous.  People  will  notice 
my  cuadrilla,  and  say  we  are  nothing  but  a  band  of 
heretics.  You  know  there  are  some  audiences  whom 
this  might  not  please.  A  torero  ought  to  be  nothing  but 
a  torero." 

All  the  same  he  was  greatly  attached  to  his  ban- 
derellero,  remembering  his  devotion,  which  more  than 
once  had  reached  the  point  of  self-sacrifice.  It  signified 
nothing  to  El  Nacional  that  he  should  be  hissed,  when  he 
stuck  the  banderillos  into  a  dangerous  bull  anyhow,  so 
as  to  end  the  matter  more  quickly.  He  did  not  care 
for  glory,  and  he  only  fought  to  earn  his  livelihood.  But 
once  Gallardo  advanced  rapier  in  hand  towards  a  savage 
animal,  his  banderillero  remained  close  by  his  side,  ready 
to  assist  him  with  his  heavy  cloak  and  his  strong  arm 
which  obliged  the  brute  to  lower  his  poll.  On  two  occa- 
sions, when  Gallardo  had  been  rolled  over  in  the  arena, 
and  was  in  danger  of  being  gored  by  the  horns.  El 
Nacional  had  thrown  himself  on  the  beast,  forgetful  of 
his  children,  his  wife,  the  tavern,  everything,  intending 
to  die  himself  in  order  to  save  his  master. 

On  his  entry  into  Gallardo's  dining-room  in  the  eve- 
nings he  was  received  like  a  member  of  the  family.  The 
Senora  Angustias  felt  that  affection  for  him  so  often 
existing  between  people  of  a  lower  class,  when  they  find 
themselves  in  a  higher  atmosphere,  and  which  draws 
them  together. 

"Come  and  sit  by  me,  Sebastian.  Won't  you  really 
take  anything?  .  .  .  tell  me  how  the  establishment  is  get- 
ting on.     Teresa  and  the  children  well,  I  hope?" 

Then  El  Nacional  would  enumerate  the  sales  of  the 
previous  day ;  so  many  glasses  of  wine  over  the  counter, 


112  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

so  many  bottles  of  country  wine  delivered  at  houses,  and 
the  old  woman  listened  with  the  attention  of  one  used 
to  poverty  and  who  knows  the  value  of  money  to  the 
very  last  farthing. 

Sebastian  spoke  of  the  possibility  of  increasing  his 
trade.  A  "bureau  de  tabac"  ^  in  his  tavern  would  suit 
him  down  to  the  ground.  The  espada  could  get  him 
this,  through  his  friendship  with  great  people,  but  Sebas- 
tian felt  scruples  at  asking  such  a  favour. 

"You  see,  Sena  Angustias,  the  bureau  is  a  thing  that 
depends  on  the  Government,  and  I  have  my  principles. 
I  figure  on  the  register  of  my  party  and  am  also  on  the 
committee.     What  would  my  co-religionists  say?" 

The  old  woman  was  indignant  at  these  scruples.  What 
he  had  to  do  was  to  bring  as  much  bread  into  the  family 
as  he  could.  That  poor  Teresa !  with  such  a  lot  of  chil- 
dren ! 

"Don't  be  foolish,  Sebastian,  get  all  these  cobwebs  out 
of  your  brain  .  .  .  Now  don't  answer  me.  Don't  start 
telling  me  all  sorts  of  impieties  like  the  other  night; 
remember  I  am  going  to  hear  Mass  at  La  Macarena  to- 
morrow morning." 

But  Gallardo  and  Don  Jose,  who  were  smoking  the 
other  side  of  the  table,  with  a  glass  of  cognac  within 
reach  of  their  hands,  and  who  delighted  in  making  El 
Nacional  talk  so  that  they  could  laugh  at  his  ideas,  egged 
him  on  by  depreciating  Don  Joselito:  an  imposter  who 
upset  ignorant  men  like  him. 

The  banderillero  recived  his  master's  jokes  meekly 
enough.  To  doubt  Don  Joselito !  Such  a  patent  absurd- 
ity could  not  make  him  angry.  It  was  as  though  some 
one  was  hitting  at  his  other  idol  Gallardo,  by  saying  he 
did  not  know  how  to  kill  a  bull. 

But  when  he  heard  the  saddler,  who  inspired  him  with 
*  Tobacco  is  a  Government  monopoly. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  113 

an  unconquerable  aversion,  take  part  in  these  jests,  he 
lost  his  calm.  Who  was  that  scamp,  living  by  hanging 
on  to  his  master,  that  he  should  dare  to  argue  with  him? 
With  him !  .  .  .  And  then  losing  all  restraint,  taking  no 
notice  of  the  espada's  wife  and  mother,  or  of  Encama- 
cion,  who,  imitating  her  husband,  pursed  up  her  mus- 
tachioed lip,  looking  contemptuously  at  the  banderillero, 
the  latter  launched  himself  full  sail  on  the  exposition  of 
his  ideas,  with  the  same  ardour  as  when  he  discussed  in 
committee. 

For  want  of  better  arguments  he  overwhelmed  the  be- 
liefs of  others  with  insults. 

"The  Bible?  .  .  .  Rubbish!^  The  creation  of  the 
world  in  six  days  .  .  .  Rubbish !  .  .  .  The  story  of  Adam 
and  Eve?  Rubbish!  .  .  .  The  whole  of  it  lies  and  su- 
perstition." 

And  this  word  rubbish,  that  he  employed,  in  order  not 
to  use  one  even  more  disrespectful,  and  that  he  applied 
to  everything  which  seemed  to  him  false  and  ridiculous, 
took  on  his  lips  an  astonishing  intensity  of  contempt. 

The  history  of  Adam  and  Eve  was  for  him  the  subject 
of  never-ending  sarcasm;  he  had  reflected  much  on  this 
point  during  the  hours  of  quiet  drowsiness,  when  he  was 
travelling  with  the  cuadrilla,  during  which  time  he  had 
discovered  an  irrefutable  argument,  drawn  entirely 
from  his  own  inner  consciousness.  "How  could  it  be 
thought  that  all  human  beings  were  descended  from  one 
only  pair?" 

*T  call  myself  Sebastian  Venegas,  and  so  it  is;  and 
you,  Juaniyo,  you  call  yourself  Gallardo;  and  you,  Don 
Jose,  have  also  your  own  name ;  every  one  has  his  own, 
and  when  the  names  are  the  same  people  must  be  rela- 
tions. If  then  we  were  all  grandchildren  of  Adam,  and 
Adam's  name  was — we  will  suppose — Perez,  we  should 

*  Liquido. 


114  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

all  be  named  Perez.  That  is  quite  clear?  .  .  .  Well  then 
if  we  all  have  our  family  names,  there  must  have  been  a 
great  many  Adams,  and  so  what  the  priests  tell  us  is 
all  .  .  .  rubbish — retrograde  superstition !  It  is  education 
we  want,  and  the  clergy  take  advantage  of  our  igno- 
rance ...  I  think  I  am  explaining  myself!" 

Gallardo,  throwing  himself  back  in  his  chair,  scream- 
ing with  laughter,  greeted  the  orator  with  a  hurrah, 
which  imitated  the  bellowing  of  a  bull — while  the  man- 
ager, with  Andalusian  gravity,  stretched  out  his  hand 
congratulating  him, — 

"Here,  shake  it!  You  have  been  very  good!  as  good 
as  Castelar!" 

The  Senora  Angustias  was  extremely  angry  at  hear- 
ing such  things  in  her  house,  feeling  that  as  an  old 
woman  she  must  be  drawing  near  to  the  end  of  her  life. 

"Shut  up,  Sebastian.  Shut  up  your  infernal  mouth, 
cursed  one  1  or  I  shall  turn  you  out  of  doors.  If  I  did 
not  know  that  you  are  an  honest  man!" 

However,  she  soon  forgave  the  banderillero,  when  she 
thought  of  his  affection  for  Juan,  and  remembered  how 
he  had  acted  in  moments  of  danger.  Besides,  it  was  a 
great  comfort  to  her  and  to  Carmen,  that  so  serious  and 
right-minded  a  man  should  belong  to  the  cuadrilla  with 
the  other  ''lads,"  for  the  espada,  left  to  himself,  was 
extremely  light  of  character,  and  easily  drawn  away  by 
his  desire  for  admiration  from  women. 

The  enemy  of  Adam  and  Eve  held  a  secret  of  his 
master's,  which  made  him  reserved  and  grave,  when  he 
saw  him  in  his  own  house,  between  his  mother  and  Car- 
men.    If  those  women  only  knew  what  he  knew! 

In  spite  of  the  respect  that  every  banderillero  oughv  to 
pay  his  master,  El  Nacicnal  had  one  day  ventured  tt* 
speak  to  Gallardo,  taking  advantage  of  his  seniority  iK 
years,  and  of  their  very  old  friendship. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  115 

"Listen  to  me,  Juaniyo.  All  Seville  knows  about  it! 
Nothing  else  is  spoken  of,  and  the  news  will  get  to  your 
house  and  cause  a  ruction  that  will  singe  the  good  God's 
hair !  . .  .  Just  think — the  Senora  Angustias  will  put  on  a 
face  like  the  Mater  Dolorosa,  and  poor  Carmen  will  get 
in  a  rage.  Remember  the  row  about  that  singer,  and 
that  was  nothing  to  this.  .  .  .  This  bicho  ^  is  far  more 
dangerous,  so  beware.'* 

Gallardo  pretended  not  to  understand,  feeling  annoyed 
but  flattered  at  the  same  time  that  all  Seville  should  be 
aware  of  the  secret  of  his  amours. 

"But  who  is  this  'bicho?'  What  are  these  rows  you 
speak  of?" 

"Who  should  it  be!  Dona  Sol;  that  great  lady  who 
gives  every  one  so  much  cause  for  gossip.  The  niece  of 
the  Marquis  de  Moraima,  the  breeder." 

And  as  the  espada  remained  silent  but  smiling,  de- 
lighted to  find  El  Nacional  so  well  informed,  the  latter 
went  on  like  a  preacher,  disillusioned  of  the  vanities  of 
life. 

"A  married  man  ought  to  seek,  before  everything  else, 
the  peace  of  his  household  .  .  .  All  women  are  just  the 
same  .  .  .  Rubbish.  One  is  worth  just  as  much  as  the 
other,  and  it  is  a  folly  to  embitter  your  life  by  flying 
from  one  to  another  .  .  .  Your  servant,  for  the  twenty- 
five  years  he  ha^  lived  with  his  Teresa,  has  never  de- 
ceived her  once  even  in  thought,  and  yet  I,  too,  am  a 
torero,  and  have  had  my  good  times  and  many  a  girl  has 
cast  sheep's  eyes  at  me." 

Gallardo  laughed  outright  at  the  banderillero's  lec- 
ture. He  really  spoke  like  the  prior  of  a  convent.  And 
yet  it  was  he  who  wished  to  gobble  up  all  the  friars 
alive!  .  .  .    "Nacional,  don't  be  an  idiot!    Every  one  is 

*  A  not  very  complimentary  term  to  the  lady — a.  stinging  iasec^ 
a  dangerous  beast. 


ii6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

as  he  is,  and  if  the  women  come  to  us,  well  then,  let  them 
come.  One  lives  so  short  a  time  !  And  possibly  some  day 
I  may  be  carried  out  of  the  circus  feet  foremost  .  .  . 
Besides,  you  do  not  know  what  a  great  lady  is!  If  only 
3-0U  could  see  that  woman  1"  .  .  . 

Presently  he  added  ingenuously  as  though  he  wished 
to  disperse  the  sad  and  shocked  look  on  El  Nacional's 
face: 

"I  love  Carmen  dearly,  you  know  it;  I  love  her  as 
much  as  ever.  But  I  love  the  other  one  too.  It  is  quite 
another  thing.  ...  I  cannot  explain  it.  It  is  quite 
another  thing,  and  that  is  all." 

And  the  banderillero  could  get  no  more  out  of  his  in- 
terview with  Gallardo. 

Months  before,  as  the  end  of  the  bull-fighting  season 
was  approaching  with  the  autumn,  Gallardo  had  had  an 
accidental  encounter  in  the  church  of  San  Lorenzo. 

He  rested  a  few  days  in  Seville  before  going  to  La 
Rinconada  with  his  family.  When  this  quiet  time  came 
round,  nothing  pleased  him  better  than  to  live  quietly  in 
his  own  house,  free  from  those  perpetual  journeys  in 
the  train.  Killing  more  than  a  hundred  bulls  a  year, 
with  all  the  dangers  and  exertions  of  the  fight,  did  not 
fatigue  him  half  so  much  as  those  journeys  lasting  so 
many  months  from  one  Plaza  to  another  all  over  Spain. 

Those  long  journeys  in  full  summer,  under  a  burning 
sun,  over  scorched  plains,  in  old  carriages  of  which  the 
roofs  seemed  on  fire  were  most  exhausting.  The  large 
water  jar  belonging  to  the  cuadrilla  which  was  filled  at 
every  station,  utterly  failed  to  quench  their  thirst.  Be- 
sides, the  trains  were  crowded  with  passengers,  country 
people  going  to  the  towns  to  enjoy  the  fairs  and  see  the 
corridas.  Many  a  time  Gallardo,  after  killing  his  last 
bull  in  a  Plaza,  fearing  to  lose  his  train,  and  still  dressed 
m  his  gala  costume,  had  rushed  down  to  the  station  like 


13LOOD  AND  SAND  117 

a  flash  of  gold  and  colours,  through  the  crowds  of  trav- 
ellers and  piles  of  luggage.  Often  he  had  changed  his 
clothes  in  the  carriage  under  the  eyes  of  his  fellow  pas- 
sengers, pleased  at  travelling  with  such  a  celebrity,  and 
had  spent  a  restless  night  on  the  cushions,  while  the 
others  squeezed  themselves  together  to  give  him  as  much 
room  as  possible.  These  people  respected  his  fatigue, 
thinking  that  on  the  morrow  this  man  would  give  them 
the  pleasure  of  a  perhaps  tragic  emotion,  without  the 
slightest  danger  to  themselves. 

When  he  arrived  wearied  out  at  a  town  en  fete,  the 
streets  decorated  with  flags  and  triumphal  arches,  he  had 
to  endure  all  the  torment  of  enthusiastic  admiration.  The 
amateurs,  bewitched  by  his  name,  met  him  at  the  station 
and  accompanied  him  to  the  hotel.  These  light-hearted 
people  who  had  slept  well,  and  who  mobbed  him,  ex- 
pected to  find  him  expansive  and  loquacious,  as  if  the 
very  fact  alone  of  seeing  them,  must  cause  him  the  great- 
est of  pleasures. 

Many  times  there  was  not  only  one  bull-run.  He  had 
to  fight  on  three  or  four  successive  days,  and  the  espada, 
when  night  came,  exhausted  by  fatigue,  by  want  of 
sleep,  and  recent  emotions,  would  throw  conventionali- 
ties overboard,  and  sit  in  his  shirt  sleeves  In  front  of  his 
hotel,  to  enjoy  the  cool.  The  "lads"  of  the  cuadrilla  who 
were  lodged  in  the  same  hotel  remained  near  their  mas- 
ter like  schoolboys  in  durance  vile.  Sometimes  the  bold- 
est spirit  would  beg  leave  to  take  a  turn  through  the  il- 
luminated streets  and  the  fair. 

"To-morrow  there  are  INIuira  bulls,"  said  the  espada. 
**I  know  what  these  turns  mean.  You  will  come  back  at 
dawn  to-morrow,  having  taken  a  few  glasses  too  much, 
or  done  something  else  which  will  impair  your  vigour. 
No,  no  one  goes  out;  you  shall  have  your  fill  when  we 
have  done." 


ii8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

When  their  work  was  ended,  if  they  had  a  free  day 
before  going  on  to  the  next  corrida  in  another  town, 
the  cuadrilla  would  postpone  their  journey,  then  they 
would  indulge  in  dissolute  merriment  away  from  their 
families,  in  company  of  the  enthusiastic  amateurs  who 
imagined  that  this  was  the  usual  way  of  life  of  their 
idols. 

The  ill-arranged  dates  of  the  corridas  obliged  the  es- 
pada  to  take  ridiculous  journeys.  He  would  go  from  one 
town  to  fight  at  the  other  end  of  Spain,  three  or  four 
days  afterwards  he  would  retrace  his  steps  to  fight  in  a 
town  close  to  the  first,  so  that  as  the  summer  months 
were  most  abundant  in  corridas,  he  virtually  spent  the 
whole  of  them  in  the  train,  travelling  in  zigzags  over 
every  railway  in  the  Peninsula,  killing  bulls  by  day  and 
sleeping  in  the  trains. 

*lf  all  my  journeys  in  the  summer  were  set  in  a 
straight  line,"  said  Gallardo,  ''they  would  assuredly  reach 
to  the  North  Pole." 

At  the  beginning  of  the  season  he  undertook  those 
journeys  gaily  enough,  thinking  of  the  audiences  who 
had  talked  of  him  the  whole  year,  and  who  were  im- 
patiently expecting  his  arrival.  He  thought  of  the  un- 
expected acquaintances  he  might  make,  of  the  adven- 
tures that  feminine  curiosity  might  bring  him,  of  the  life 
in  different  hotels,  in  which  the  disturbances,  the  annoy- 
ances, and  the  diversity  of  meals  made  such  a  contrast 
to  his  placid  existence  in  Seville,  or  the  mountainous 
solitude  of  La  Rinconada. 

But  after  a  few  weeks  of  this  dizzy  life,  during  which 
he  earned  five  thousand  pesetas  for  each  afternoon's 
work,  Gallardo  began  to  fret,  like  a  child  away  from  his 
family. 

"Ay !  for  my  house  in  Seville,  so  cool,  and  kept  like  a 


BLOUf)  AND  SAND  119 

silver  cup  by  poor  Carmen !  Ay !  for  the  mother's  good 
stews!  so  delicious."  .  ,  . 

On  his  return  home,  to  rest  for  the  remainder  of  the 
year,  Gallardo  experienced  the  satisfaction  of  a  cele- 
brated man,  who,  forgetful  of  his  honours,  can  give 
himself  over  to  the  enjoyment  of  everyday  life. 

He  would  sleep  late,  free  from  the  worry  of  railway 
time-tables,  and  the  anxiety  of  thinking  about  bulls. 
Nothing  to  do  that  day,  nor  the  next,  nor  the  next! 
None  of  his  journeys  need  be  further  than  the  Calle  de 
las  Sierpes  or  the  Plaza  de  San  Fernando.  The  family, 
too,  seemed  quite  diiferent,  gayer  and  in  better  health, 
now  they  knew  he  was  safe  at  home  for  several  months. 
He  would  go  out  with  his  felt  hat  well  back,  swinging 
his  gold-headed  cane,  and  admiring  the  big  diamonds 
on  his  fingers. 

In  the  vestibule  several  men  would  be  standing  wait- 
ing for  him  close  to  the  wicket,  through  tlie  ironwork 
of  which  could  be  seen  the  white  and  luminous  patio,  so 
beautifully  clean.  Many  of  them  were  sun-burnt  men, 
reeking  of  perspiration,  in  dirty  blouses  and  wide  som- 
breros with  ragged  edges.  Some  were  agricultural  la- 
bourers, moving  or  on  a  journey,  who  on  passing  through 
Seville  thought  it  the  most  natural  thing  to  come  and 
ask  for  help  from  the  famous  matador,  whom  they  called 
Don  Juan.  Some  were  fellow  townsmen  who  addressed 
him  as  "thou,"  and  called  him  Juaniyo. 

Gallardo,  with  his  wonderful  memory  for  faces,  gained 
by  constantly  mixing  with  crowds,  would  recognise  them ; 
they  were  school-fellows,  or  companions  of  his  vagabond 
childhood. 

"So,  affairs  are  not  going  on  well,  eh?  Times  are 
hard  for  every  one." 

And  before  this  familiarity  could  tempt  them  to  fur- 


I20  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ther  intimacies,  he  would  turn  to  Garabato,  who  held 
the  wicket  open. 

"Go  and  tell  the  Senora  to  give  each  of  them  a  couple 
of  pesetas." 

And  he  went  out  into  the  street,  pleased  with  his  own 
generosity  and  the  beauty  of  life. 

At  the  tavern  close  by  Montane's  children  and  his 
customers  would  come  to  the  door  smiling  with  their 
eyes  full  of  curiosity. 

"Good-day,  gentlemen!  ...  I  thank  you  for  your 
civility,  but  I  do  not  drink." 

And  freeing  himself  from  the  enthusiast  who  came 
towards  him  glass  in  hand,  he  walked  on,  being  stopped 
in  the  next  street  by  two  old  women,  friends  of  his 
mother's.  They  begged  him  to  stand  godfather  to  the 
grandchild  of  one  of  them ;  her  poor  daughter  might  be 
confined  at  any  moment;  but  her  son-in-law,  a  furious 
Gallardist,  who  had  often  come  to  blows  to  defend  his 
idol  as  he  came  out  of  the  Plaza,  had  not  dared  to  ask 
him. 

"But,  confound  you!  do  you  take  me  for  a  child's 
nurse?  I  have  already  more  godchildren  than  there  are 
foundlings  in  the  Hospital!" 

In  order  to  get  rid  of  the  good  ladies  he  advised  them 
to  go  and  talk  it  over  with  his  mother,  "hear  what  she 
had  to  say  about  it";  and  he  walked  on,  never  stopping 
till  he  got  to  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,  saluting  some,  and 
allowing  others  to  enjoy  the  honour  of  walking  by  his 
side,  in  proud  friendship,  under  the  eyes  of  the  pass- 
ers-by. 

He  looked  in  for  a  moment  at  the  Club  of  the  "Forty- 
Five,"  to  see  if  his  manager  were  there ;  this  was  a  very 
aristocratic  club,  and,  as  its  name  indicated,  limited  as  to 
numbers,  in  which  nothing  was  talked  of  save  horses 
and  bulls.    It  was  composed  of  rich  amateurs  and  breed- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  121 

ers,  among  whom  figured  as  an  oracle  in  the  first  rank, 
the  Marquis  de  Moraima. 

During  one  of  these  walks  on  a  Friday  afternoon, 
Gallardo,  who  was  going  towards  the  Calle  de  las  Sier- 
pes,  felt  a  wish  to  enter  the  church  of  San  Lorenzo. 

In  the  little  square  were  drawn  up  several  sumptuous 
carriages.  All  the  best  people  in  the  town  were  going 
on  that  day  to  pray  to  the  miraculous  image  of  our 
Father  Jesus  of  Great  Power.  The  ladies  descended 
from  their  carriages  dressed  in  black,  with  rich  mantillas, 
and  several  men  also  went  into  the  church,  attracted  by 
the  feminine  concourse. 

Gallardo  also  entered.  For  a  torero  ought  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  every  opportunity  to  rub  shoulders  with  peo- 
ple of  high  position.  The  son  of  Seiiora  Angustias  felt 
a  triumphant  pride  when  wealthy  men  saluted  him,  and 
elegant  ladies  murmured  his  name,  indicating  him  with 
their  eyes. 

Besides,  he  was  a  devotee  of  the  Lord  of  Great  Power. 
If  he  tolerated  El  Nacional's  opinions  about  God  or  Na- 
ture without  being  very  much  shocked,  it  was  because 
for  him  divinity  was  something  vague  and  undecided, 
something  like  the  existence  of  a  great  lord  against  whom' 
one  may  hear  every  sort  of  evil-speaking  calmly,  be- 
cause one  only  knows  of  him  by  hearsay.  But  it  was 
quite  another  affair  with  the  "Virgin  of  Hope"  and 
"Jesus  of  Great  Power" — he  had  known  them  since  his 
childhood,  and  these,  no  one  should  touch. 

His  feelings  as  a  rough  fellow  were  touched  by  the 
theatrical  agony  of  Christ,  with  His  cross  on  His  back; 
the  perspiring,  agonized  and  livid  face,  reminded  hin| 
of  some  of  his  comrades  whom  he  had  seen  lying  in  the 
bull-ring  infirmary.  One  must  stand  well  with  that  pow- 
erful Lord ;  and  he  recited  fervently  several  paternosters, 
as  he  stood  before  the  image,  the  lights  of  whose  wax 


122  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

tapers  were  reflected  like  stars  on  the  whites  of  his  Moor- 
ish eyes. 

A  rustle  among  the  women  kneeling  before  him,  dis- 
tracted his  attention,  greedy  of  supernatural  interven- 
tions in  his  dangerous  life. 

A  lady  was  passing  through  the  kneeling  devotees  and 
attracting  their  attention ;  she  was  tall,  slight,  and  of 
startling  beauty,  dressed  in  light  colours,  with  a  dark  hat 
covered  with  feathers,  beneath  which  flamed  the  shining 
gold  of  her  hair. 

Gallardo  recognized  her.  It  was  Dona  Sol,  the  niece 
of  the  Marquis  de  Moraima,  the  Ambassadress,  as  she 
was  called  in  Seville.  She  passed  through  the  women, 
taking  no  notice  of  their  curiosity,  but  pleased  at  their 
glances  and  their  murmured  words,  as  if  these  were  a 
natural  homage  due  to  her  wherever  she  appeared.  The 
foreign  elegance  of  her  dress  and  the  enormous  hat, 
stood  out  from  among  the  dark  mass  of  mantillas.  She 
knelt  and  bent  her  head  for  an  instant  in  prayer,  and 
then  her  clear  eyes  of  a  greenish  blue  with  golden  lights 
wandered  tranquilly  through  the  church  as  though  she 
were  in  a  theatre  seeking  for  friends  among  the  audi- 
ence. Her  eyes  seemed  to  smile  when  they  lighted  on  a 
friend,  and  pursuing  their  wanderings,  they  at  last  met 
those  of  Gallardo  fixed  on  her. 

The  espada  was  not  modest.  Accustomed  to  see  him- 
self the  object  of  contemplation  by  thousands  and  thou- 
sands of  eyes  on  the  afternoon  of  a  corrida,  he  thought 
frankly  that  wherever  he  was  all  looks  must  necessarily 
be  directed  towards  himself.  Many  women,  in  confi- 
dential hours,  had  told  him  of  the  emotion,  the  curiosity, 
and  the  desire,  that  had  seized  them  the  first  time  they 
had  seen  him  in  the  circus.  Dona  Sol's  eyes  did  not 
fall  as  they  met  those  of  the  torero;  on  the  contrary,  she 
continued  to  stare  at  him  with  the  coldness  of  a  great 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  123 

lady,  and  it  was  the  matador,  always  respectftil  to  the 
rich,  who  at  last  turned  his  eyes  away. 

What  a  woman !  thought  he,  with  his  vanity  as  a  pop- 
ular idol.    Will  that  gachi  ^  be  for  me  ? 

Outside  the  church,  he  felt  it  impossible  to  go  away, 
and  so  as  to  see  her  again  he  waited  by  the  door.  His 
heart  told  him  something  was  happening,  as  on  the  after- 
noons of  his  greatest  successes.  It  was  the  same  myste- 
rious heart-throb  which  made  him  disregard  the  protests 
of  the  public,  throwing  himself  daringly  into  the  great- 
est risks,  and  always  with  splendid  results. 

When  she  in  her  turn  came  out,  she  looked  at  him 
again  without  surprise,  as  if  she  had  guessed  he  would 
be  waiting  for  her  at  the  door.  She  mounted  into  her 
carriage,  accompanied  by  two  friends,  and  as  the  coach- 
man started  the  horses,  she  again  turned  her  head  to 
look  at  him,  and  a  slight  smile  passed  over  her  lips. 

Gallardo  felt  preoccupied  all  the  afternoon.  He 
thought  of  his  previous  amours,  of  the  triumphs  his 
proud  bearing  as  a  torero  had  given  him,  conquests  that 
had  filled  him  with  pride,  making  him  think  himself 
invincible,  but  that  now  inspired  him  with  shame.  But  a 
woman  like  this,  a  great  lady,  who  after  travelling 
throughout  Europe,  now  lived  in  Seville  like  a  queen! 
That  would  indeed  be  a  conquest!  ...  To  his  wonder 
at  Dona  Sol's  beauty,  he  added  the  instinctive  respect  of 
the  former  vagabond,  who  in  a  country  where  birth  and 
wealth  have  such  great  prestige,  had  learned  to  worship 
the  great  from  his  cradle.  If  only  he  could  succeed  in 
attracting  the  attention  of  such  a  woman !  What  greater 
triumph  could  he  have ! 

His  manager,  a  great  friend  of  the  Marquis  de  Mo- 

*  Gachi — uncomplimentary  gipsy  word,  applied  to  male  or  fe- 
male, generally   to  a   Christian. 


124  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

raima  and  well  in  with  all  the  best  sets  in  Seville,  had 
sometimes  spoken  to  him  of  Dona  Sol. 

After  an  absence  of  some  years,  she  had  returned  to 
Seville  a  few  months  previously.  After  her  long  stay 
abroad  she  was  enamoured  of  all  the  habits  and  popular 
customs  of  the  country,  pronouncing  them  all  very  in- 
teresting and  very  .  .  .  artistic.  She  went  to  the  bull- 
fights in  the  ancient  maja  costume,  imitating  the  manners 
and  dress  of  the  graceful  ladies  painted  by  Goya.  She 
was  a  strong  woman  accustomed  to  all  sports  and  a  great 
rider,  and  the  people  saw  her  galloping  in  the  outskirts  of 
Seville  in  a  dark  riding  habit,  a  red  cravat,  and  a  white 
felt  hat  poised  on  the  golden  glory  of  her  hair.  Often 
too  she  carried  the  garrocha^  across  her  saddle,  and 
with  a  party  of  friends  as  picadors,  would  ride  out  to 
the  pastures  to  spear  and  overthrow  bulls,  delighting  in 
this  rough  sport,  so  full  of  danger. 

She  was  not  a  girl.  Gallardo  remembered  dimly  hav- 
ing seen  her  in  her  childhood,  in  the  gardens  of  Las 
Delicias,  seated  by  the  side  of  her  mother,  a  mass  of 
white  frills,  while  he,  poor  little  wretch,  ran  underneath 
the  carriage  wheels  to  pick  up  cigar  ends.  No  doubt  she 
was  the  same  age  as  himself,  nearing  the  thirties;  but 
how  magnificent !    How  different  from  all  other  women ! 

Don  Jose  was  well  acquainted  with  her  history.  .  .  . 
A  little  off  her  head  that  Dona  Sol!  .  .  .  And  her  ro- 
mantic name  agreed  well  with  the  originality  of  her 
character  and  the  independence  of  her  habits. 

On  the  death  of  her  mother,  she  became  possessed  of 
a  very  good  fortune.  She  had  married  in  Madrid  a 
personage  much  older  than  herself  who  had  as  Am- 
bassador, represented  Spain  at  the  principal  Courts  of 
Europe,  a  prospect  which  could  not  fail  to  be  attractive 
to  a  woman  anxious  for  splendour  and  novelty. 

*  Iron-tipped  lance,  used  in  overthrowing  young  bulls. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  125 

"How  that  woman  has  amused  herself,  Juan!"  said 
the  manager.  "How  many  heads  she  has  turned  during 
the  ten  years  she  has  travelled  about  Europe.  She  must 
be  really  a  book  on  geography,  with  secret  notes  on  every 
page.  Certainly  she  must  have  a  fine  crop  of  memories 
about  every  capital  in  Europe.  .  .  .  And  the  poor  Am- 
bassador! He  died,  no  doubt,  from  vexation,  as  there 
was  nowhere  left  for  him  to  go  to.  She  flew  very  high, 
too.  The  good  gentleman  would  be  sent  to  represent 
us  at  some  court  or  other,  and  before  the  year  was  out, 
the  Queen  or  the  Empress  would  be  writing  home  to  beg 
for  the  removal  of  the  Ambassador  and  his  seductive 
wife.  .  .  .  Oh!  the  crowned  heads  that  gachi  has 
turned!  .  .  .  Queens  trembled  at  her  arrival.  Finally, 
the  poor  Ambassador,  finding  no  place  open  to  him  ex- 
cept the  American  Republics — and  as  he  was  of  good 
principles  and  a  friend  of  kings — died.  And  don't  im- 
agine for  a  moment  that  she  contented  herself  only  with 
people  living  in  royal  palaces !  if  all  that  is  told  of  her  be 
true!  .  .  .  Everything  she  does  is  most  extreme,  every- 
thing or  nothing.  Sometimes  fixing  on  the  highest,  some- 
times on  the  lowest  in  the  land.  I  have  been  told  that  in 
Russia  she  ran  after  one  of  those  shaggy-haired  fellows 
who  throw  bombs,  who  did  not  care  much  for  her  be- 
cause she  disturbed  his  plots,  because  she  followed  him 
everywhere,  till  at  last  his  secret  society  strangled  him. 
Afterwards  she  appears  to  have  taken  up  with  a  painter 
in  Paris,  but  possibly  these  may  be  exaggerations.  How- 
ever, it  seems  quite  certain  that  she  was  great  friends 
with  some  musician  in  Germany  who  writes  operas.  If 
you  could  only  hear  her  play  the  piano !  And  when  she 
sings!  it  is  like  one  of  the  sopranos  who  come  to  San 
Fernando's  theatre  at  Eastertide.  And  she  not  only 
sings  in  Italian,  but  in  French,  German,  and  English. 
Her  uncle,  the  Marquis  de  Moraima,  who,  between  our- 


126  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

selves,  IS  just  a  little  rough,  says  he  even  suspects  she 
knows  Latin !  .  .  .  What  a  woman,  eh,  Juanillo  ?  What 
an  interesting  woman!" 

Don  Jose  spoke  of  Dona  Sol  with  admiration,  think- 
ing every  act  of  her  life  extraordinary  and  original,  those 
that  were  certain  as  well  as  those  that  were  hazy. 

"In  Seville,"  continued  he,  "she  leads  an  exemplary 
life,  for  which  reason  I  think  a  great  deal  that  has  been 
said  about  her  is  untrue — the  calumnies  of  certain  peo- 
ple who  found  the  grapes  were  sour.  She  appears  to 
have  fallen  in  love  with  Sevillian  life,  as  though  she  had 
never  seen  it  before !  with  our  warm  sunny  climate,  with 
our  picturesque  customs  .  .  .  She  has  been  made  a  mem- 
ber of  the  charitable  brotherhood  of  the  Cristo  de  Triana 
and  spends  a  fortune  on  Manzanilla  for  the  brothers. 
Some  nights  she  fills  her  house  with  singers  and  dancers, 
who  bring  their  families  and  even  their  most  distant  re- 
lations ;  they  all  fill  themselves  with  olives,  sausages  and 
wine,  and  Dofia  Sol,  seated  in  an  arm-chair  like  a  queen, 
spends  hours  asking  for  dance  after  dance.  Her  serv- 
ants who  have  come  with  her,  dressed  in  their  liveries 
and  as  stiff  and  grave  as  lords,  hand  round  trays  of  wine 
and  sweets  to  these  dancers,  who  pull  their  whiskers  and 
throw  the  olive  stones  in  their  faces !  .  .  .  A  most  proper 
and  amusing  diversion!  .  .  .  Now,  Dona  Sol  receives 
every  morning  an  old  gipsy  called  Lechuzo,  who  gives 
her  lessons  on  the  guitar  .  .  ."  and  so  Don  Jose  rambled 
on,  explaining  to  the  matador  all  Dofia  Sol's  originalities. 

Four  days  after  Gallardo  had  seen  her  in  the  church 
of  San  Lorenzo,  the  manager  came  up  to  him  in  a  cafe 
in  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes  and  said  mysteriously: 

"Gacho,  you  are  the  spoiled  child  of  fortune!  Who 
do  you  think  has  been  talking  to  me  about  you?" 

And  putting  his  mouth  close  to  the  torero's  ear,  he 
murmured:  "Dona  Sol!" 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  127 

She  had  been  questioning  him  about  "his  matador" 
and  had  expressed  a  wish  that  he  should  be  presented 
to  her.  He  was  such  an  original  type !  So  thoroughly- 
Spanish  ! 

"She  says  she  has  several  times  seen  you  kill,  once  in 
Madrid,  and  in  other  places  which  I  forget.  She  has 
applauded  you,  and  she  knows  that  you  are  very  brave. 
Now  see,  if  she  took  a  fancy  to  you!  What  an  honour! 
You  would  be  brother-in-law  or  something  of  the  sort  to 
all  the  kings  in  Europe." 

Gallardo  smiled  modestly,  dropping  his  eyes,  but  at 
the  same  time  he  drew  up  his  fine  figure,  as  if  he  did  not 
consider  his  manager's  hypothesis  at  all  extraordinary 
or  out  of  the  way. 

"But  all  the  same  you  must  have  no  delusions,  Jua- 
nillo,"  continued  Don  Jose.  "Dona  Sol  wants  to  see  a 
torero  close,  just  as  she  takes  lessons  from  old  Le- 
chuzo.  .  .  .     Local  colour,  and  nothing  more.** 

"Bring  him  with  you  to  Tablada  the  day  after  to- 
morrow," she  said.  "You  know  what  that  is ;  a  derribo  * 
of  cattle  at  the  Moraima  breeding  farm,  that  the  Marquis 
has  arranged  for  his  niece's  amusement;  we  will  go  to- 
gether, for  I  also  am  invited." 

Two  days  afterwards,  the  maestro  and  his  manager 
rode  out  in  the  afternoon  through  the  suburb  de  la 
Feria,  dressed  as  "garrochistas,"  amid  the  expectant 
crowd  who  had  assembled  at  the  gate  or  were  loitering 
in  the  streets. 

"They  are  going  to  Tablada,"  they  said,  "there  is  a 
'derribo'  of  cattle." 

Don  Jose  riding  a  bony  white  mare  was  in  country 
dress ;  a  rough  coat,  cloth  breeches  with  yellow  gaiters, 
and  over  the  breeches  those  leather  leggings  called  "za- 

*  Overthrowing — baiting  of  bulls  by  overthrowing  them  with 
a  spear. 


128  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Jones.*'  The  espada  had  put  on  for  this  festivity  the 
bizarre  costume  that  the  ancient  toreros  used  to  wear, 
before  modem  habits  had  made  them  dress  like  every 
one  else.  On  his  head  he  wore  a  small  round  hat  with 
turned  up  edges,  made  of  rough  velvet,  fastened  under 
the  chin  by  a  strap.  The  collar  of  his  shirt,  which  had 
no  cravat,  was  fastened  by  two  diamonds,  and  two  other 
larger  ones  flashed  on  his  goffered  shirt  frills.  The 
jacket  and  waistcoat  were  of  wine  coloured  velvet  with 
black  tags  and  braidings.  The  sash  was  of  crimson  silk, 
the  tight-fitting  breeches  with  dark  embroideries  showed 
off  to  advantage  the  torero's  muscular  thighs,  and  were 
tied  at  the  knees  by  black  garters  with  large  ribbon  bows. 
The  gaiters  were  amber  coloured,  with  leather  fringes 
hanging  the  whole  length  of  the  opening;  his  boots  of  the 
same  colour  were  almost  hidden  in  the  large  Moorish 
stirrups,  leaving  only  the  large  silver  spurs  visible.  On 
his  saddle  bow,  above  the  rich  Jerez  blanket  whose  col- 
oured tassels  danced  right  and  left  on  the  horse's  back 
was  strapped  a  grey  overcoat  with  black  trimmings  and 
a  scarlet  lining. 

The  two  riders  galloped  along,  carrying  the  "garrocha" 
of  fine  strong  wood,  over  their  shoulders  like  a  lance 
with  a  ball  at  the  end  to  protect  the  iron  point.  They 
received  quite  an  ovation  as  they  rode  through  the  sub- 
urb. Ole  the  brave  men!  And  the  women  waved  their 
hands. 

"May  God  go  with  you,  fine  fellow!  Enjoy  yourself 
Senor  Juan !" 

They  spurred  their  horses  to  leave  behind  the  swarm 
of  children  running  after  them.  And  the  little  streets 
with  their  blueish  pavement  and  white  walls  rang  with 
the  rhythm  of  the  horses'  hoofs. 

In  the  quiet  street  where  Dona  Sol  lived,  a  street  of 
aristocratic  houses,  with  curved  ironwork  gratings  and 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  129 

large  glazed  balconies,  they  found  the  other  "garrochis- 
tas"  who  were  waiting  at  the  door,  motionless  in  their 
saddles  and  leaning  on  their  lances.  They  were  mostly 
young  men,  relations  or  friends  of  Dona  Sol's,  who  sa- 
luted the  torero  with  courteous  amiability,  pleased  that 
he  should  be  of  the  party.  At  last  the  Marquis  de  Mo- 
raima  came  out  of  the  house,  and  mounted  his  horse  im- 
mediately. 

"My  niece  will  be  down  directly.  Women,  you 
know!  .  .  ,  they  are  never  ready." 

He  said  this  with  the  sententious  gravity  with  which 
he  always  spoke,  as  if  his  words  were  oracles.  He  was 
a  tall  spare  man,  with  large  white  whiskers,  but  his  eyes 
and  mouth  preserved  an  almost  childlike  ingenuousness. 
Courteous  and  measured  in  his  language,  quick  in  his 
gestures,  seldom  smiling,  he  was  quite  a  great  nobleman 
of  the  olden  days :  Clad  almost  always  in  riding  dress  he 
hated  town  life,  bored  by  the  social  obligations  that  his 
rank  imposed  on  him  when  he  was  in  Seville,  longing  to 
range  the  country  with  his  farmers  and  herdsmen  whom 
he  treated  familiarly  as  comrades.  He  had  almost  for- 
gotten how  to  write  from  want  of  practice,  but  when  any- 
one spoke  to  him  of  fighting  bulls,  of  the  rearing  of 
horses  and  bulls,  or  of  agricultural  work,  his  eyes  spar- 
kled with  determination,  and  you  recognised  at  once  the 
great  connoisseur. 

Some  clouds  passed  over  the  sun,  and  the  golden  light 
faded  from  the  white  walls  of  the  street ;  some  looked  up 
at  the  sky,  to  the  narrow  strip  of  blue  visible  between 
the  two  lines  of  roofs. 

*'Do  not  be  uneasy,"  said  the  Marquis  gravely  .  .  .  "As 
I  came  out  of  the  house  I  saw  the  wind  blowing  a  piece 
of  paper  in  a  direction  I  know.    It  will  not  rain." 

Every  one  seemed  reassured.  It  could  not  rain,  as 
the  Marquis  had  said  it  would  not.  He  knew  the  weathef 


130  BLOOD  ANT:?  «,i.ND 

just  as  well  as  an  old  shepherd,  and  there  was  no  dan* 
ger  of  his  being  mistaken. 

Then  he  came  tip  to  Gallardo. 

"This  year  I  shall  provide  you  witA  magnificent  cor- 
ridas. What  bulls!  We  shall  see  if  you  will  kill  them 
like  good  Qiristians.  Last  year,  you  know,  I  was  not 
at  all  pleased,  the  poor  brutes  deserved  better." 

Dofia  Sol  now  appeared,  raising  with  one  hand  her 
dark  riding  habit,  beneath  which  appeared  her  high 
grey  leather  riding  boots.  She  wore  a  man's  shirt  with 
a  red  cravat,  a  jacket  and  waistcoat  of  violet  velvet,  and 
her  small  velvet  Andalusian  hat  rested  gracefully  on  her 
curling  hair. 

She  mounted  lightly,  taking  her  garrocha  from  a  serv- 
ant. While  she  saluted  her  friends,  apologizing  for  hav- 
ing kept  them  waiting,  her  eyes  were  watching  Gallardo. 
Don  Jose  pricked  on  his  horse  to  make  the  presentation, 
but  Dona  Sol  was  beforehand  with  him,  going  up  to  the 
torero. 

Gallardo  felt  perturbed  by  the  lady's  presence.  What 
a  woman!     What  would  she  say  to  him?  .  .  . 

He  saw  that  she  held  out  a  delicate,  scented  hand,  and 
in  his  bewilderment  he  only  knew  that  he  seized  and 
pressed  it  in  the  strong  grasp  used  to  overthrowing  bulls. 
But  the  hand,  so  white  and  pink,  was  not  crushed  in  the 
rough  involuntary  grip,  which  would  have  made  an- 
other cry  out  with  pain,  but  after  a  strong  clasp  it  dis- 
engaged itself  easily. 

*T  thank  you  much  for  having  come.  Delighted  to 
know  you." 

And  Gallardo,  in  his  flurry,  feeling  that  he  must  an- 
swer something,  stammered  as  if  he  were  speaking  to 
an  amateur: 

"Thanks;  and  the  family,  quite  well?" 

A  little  ripple  of  laughter  from  Dofia  Sol  was  lost  in 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  131 

the  clatter  of  the  hoofs,  in  the  noise  of  their  first  start. 
The  lady  put  her  horse  to  a  trot,  and  the  cavalcade  of 
riders  followed  her,  Gallardo,  unable  to  get  over  his 
stupefaction,  bringing  up  the  rear,  feeling  dimly  that  he 
had  made  a  fool  of  himself. 

They  galloped  through  the  outskirts  of  Seville  along- 
side the  river  leaving  the  Torre  Del  Oro  ^  behind  them 
and  then  on  through  the  shady  gardens  strewn  with  yel- 
low sand,  till  they  reached  a  road  bordered  on  either 
side  by  small  taverns  and  eating-houses. 

When  they  arrived  at  Tablada,  they  saw  on  the  green 
plain  a  large  concourse  of  people  and  carriages  drawn 
up  close  to  the  palisades  which  separated  the  meadow 
from  the  animals'  enclosure. 

The  broad  stream  of  the  Guadalquivir  rolled  along  the 
edge  of  the  pasture;  on  the  opposite  side  rose  the  hill 
of  San  Juan  de  Aznalfarache,  crowned  by  its  ruined  cas- 
tle, and  many  white  country  houses  peeped  out  from 
among  the  silver  grey  of  the  olive  trees.  On  the  oppo- 
6ite  side  of  the  wide  horizon,  on  which  a  few  woolly 
clouds  were  floating,  lay  Seville,  the  line  of  its  houses 
dominated  by  the  imposing  mass  of  the  Cathedral,  and 
the  marvellous  Giralda,  dyed  a  tender  pink  in  the  eve- 
ning light. 

The  riders  advanced  with  no  little  trouble  among  the 
moving  crowd.  The  curiosity  inspired  by  Doiia  Sol's 
originalities  had  attracted  all  the  ladies  of  Seville.  Her 
friends  saluted  her  as  she  passed  their  carriages,  think- 
ing she  looked  very  beautiful  in  her  manly  dress.  Her 
relations,  the  Marquis's  daughters,  some  unmarried, 
others  accompanied  by  their  husbands,  recommended 
prudence. 

"For  God's  sake,  Sol !  do  not  risk  anything"  .  .  . 

*  An  old  Moorish  tower  on  the  banks  of  the  Guadalquivir  close 
to  the  gardens  Las  Delicias. 


132  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  "derribadores"  entered  into  the  enclosure,  being 
greeted  as  they  went  through  the  paHngs  by  the  shouts 
of  the  populace,  who  had  come  to  see  the  sport. 

The  horses,  seeing  their  enemies  and  sniffing  them 
from  afar,  began  to  prance,  neighing  and  kicking  be- 
neath the  firm  hands  of  their  riders. 

The  bulls  were  in  the  centre  in  a  group,  some  were 
quietly  grazing,  while  others  lay  sleepily  ruminating  on 
the  grass  which  was  a  little  rusted  by  the  winter ;  others 
wilder,  trotted  towards  the  river,  the  old  oxen,  the  pru- 
dent "cabestros"  ^  immediately  starting  in  pursuit,  the 
big  bells  round  their  necks  ringing,  while  the  cowherds 
assisted  them  in  collecting  the  stragglers  by  slinging 
stones  which  struck  the  tips  of  the  fugitives'  horns. 

The  riders  remained  a  long  time  motionless,  holding  a 
council  under  the  impatient  eyes  of  the  crowd  who  were 
longing  for  something  exciting. 

The  first  to  ride  out  was  the  Marquis  accompanied  by 
one  of  his  friends;  the  two  galloped  towards  the  group 
of  bulls,  and  when  within  a  short  distance  stopped  their 
horses,  standing  up  in  their  stirrups,  waving  their  "gar- 
rochas"  and  shouting  loudly  to  frighten  them.  A  black 
bull  with  powerful  thighs  detached  himself  from  the  rest, 
trotting  to  the  further  end  of  the  enclosure. 

The  Marquis  had  every  right  to  be  proud  of  his  herd, 
composed  entirely  of  fine  animals,  carefully  selected  from 
judicious  crossing.  They  were  not  animals  destined 
only  for  the  production  of  meat,  with  rough  and  dirty 
coats,  big  hoofs,  hanging  heads,  and  large  and  ill-placed 
horns.  They  were  animals  of  nervous  vivacity,  strong 
and  robust,  making  the  ground  shake  as  they  went  along 
raising  clouds  of  dust  under  their  hoofs.  Their  coats 
were  fine  and  shining  like  well-groomed  horses,  their  eyes 
fiery,  the  neck  broad  and  proudly  carried,  their  legs 

*  Heads  of  the  herds — trained  to  act  as  leaders  and  decoys. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  133 

short,  their  tails  long  and  fine,  their  horns  well  shaped, 
sharp  and  polished  as  if  by  hand,  and  their  hoofs  short, 
small  and  round,  but  hard  enough  to  cut  the  grass  like  a 
steel. 

The  two  riders  galloped  after  the  animal,  attacking 
him  from  either  side,  barring  his  way  as  he  tried  to  make 
for  the  river,  till  the  Marquis,  spurring  his  horse,  gained 
on  him,  and,  nearing  the  bull  with  his  garrocha  in  front 
of  him,  drove  the  iron  on  to  his  croup,  the  combined 
impetus  of  the  horse  and  the  rider's  arm  causing  him  to 
lose  his  balance,  and  roll  over  on  the  ground  belly  up- 
wards, his  horns  stuck  in  the  ground  and  his  four  legs 
in  the  air. 

The  rapidity  and  ease  with  which  the  breeder  had 
accomplished  this  feat,  raised  shouts  of  delight  from 
the  other  side  of  the  paling.  Ole  for  the  old  men!  .  .  . 
No  one  understood  bulls  like  the  Marquis.  He  managed 
them  as  if  they  were  his  own  children,  tending  them 
from  the  day  they  were  bom,  till  the  day  they  entered  the 
Plazas  to  die  like  heroes  worthy  of  a  better  fate. 

Immediately  other  riders  wished  to  go  out,  and  gain 
the  applause  of  the  crowd,  but  the  Marquis  stopped 
them,  giving  the  preference  to  his  niece.  If  she  wished 
to  accomplish  a  "derribo"  she  had  better  go  out  at  once, 
before  the  herd  got  infuriated  with  the  constant  attacks^ 

Dona  Sol  spurred  her  horse,  which  did  not  cease  rear" 
ing,  frightened  by  the  bulls.  The  Marquis  wished  to  ac 
company  her,  but  she  refused  his  escort.  No,  she  pre* 
ferred  having  Gallardo,  who  was  a  torero.  Where  was 
Gallardo?  The  matador,  still  ashamed  of  his  awkward- 
ness, rode  up  to  the  lady's  side  in  silence. 

The  two  galloped  towards  the  herd.  Dona  Sol's  horse 
reared  up  frequently,  refusing  to  go  on,  but  the  strength 
of  the  rider  forced  him  to  advance ;  Gallardo  waved  his 
garrocha,  giving  shouts  that  were  really  bello wings,  just 


134  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

as  he  did  in  the  Plazas  when  he  wished  to  excite  the 
animal  to  attack  him. 

It  was  not  difficult  to  make  one  animal  come  out  from 
the  rest ;  a  huge  white  bull  with  red  spots,  an  enormous 
neck  and  hanging  brisket,  with  horns  of  the  finest  point, 
soon  detached  himself.  He  trotted  to  the  further  end 
of  the  enclosure  as  if  he  had  there  his  "querencia,"  ^ 
which  irresistibly  attracted  him ;  Doiia  Sol  galloped  after 
him,  followed  by  the  espada. 

"Take  care,  Sefiora!"  shouted  Gallardo.  "This  is  an 
old  and  malicious  bull,  he  is  drawing  you  on  .  .  .  take 
care  he  does  not  turn  short." 

And  so  it  was.  When  Dona  3ol  prepared  to  make 
the  same  stroke  as  her  uncle,  turning  her  horse  obliquely 
to  the  bull  so  as  to  plant  the  garrocha  well  on  his  tail 
and  overthrow  him,  the  brute  suddenly  turned  as  if  real- 
izing his  danger,  planting  himself  menacingly  in  front 
of  his  attackers.  The  horse  rushed  in  front  of  the  bull, 
Dona  Sol  being  unable  to  stop  him  from  the  impetus  of 
his  wild  career,  and  the  bull  pursued,  the  chaser  becom- 
ing the  chased. 

The  lady  had  no  thought  of  flight.  Thousands  of  peo- 
ple were  watching  her  from  afar,  she  dreaded  the  laugh- 
ter of  her  friends  and  the  pity  of  the  men,  and  succeeded 
at  last  in  checking  her  horse,  and  fronting  the  bull.  She 
held  her  garrocha  under  her  arm  like  a  picador,  and 
drove  it  into  the  bull's  neck  as  it  rushed  forward  bellow- 
ing with  lowered  head.  Its  enormous  poll  was  covered 
with  a  stream  of  blood,  but  it  rushed  on  with  an  over- 
whelming-impetus,  not  seeming  to  care  for  the  wound, 
till  it  drove  its  horns  under  the  horse's  belly,  shaking  it, 
and  lifting  it  off  the  ground. 

The  rider  was  thrown  out  of  her  saddle,  while  a  wild 
cry  of  horror  went  up  from  the  palisades;  the  horse, 
*  Pet  lair  or  lurking  place. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  135 

freed  from  the  horns,  rushed  on  madly,  its  belly  stained 
with  blood,  the  girths  broken  and  the  saddle  flapping  on 
its  loins. 

The  bull  turned  to  follow  it,  but  at  the  same  moment 
something  nearer  attracted  its  attention.  It  was  Dona 
Sol  who,  instead  of  remaining  motionless  on  the  grass, 
stood  up,  picking  up  her  garrocha,  and  putting  it  bravely 
in  rest  under  her  arm  to  confront  the  brute  afresh.  It 
was  a  mad  display  of  courage,  but  she  thought  of  those 
who  were  watching  her;  a  challenge  to  death  certainly, 
but  far  better  than  compounding  with  fear  and  incurring 
ridicule. 

No  one  shouted  from  the  palisade.  The  crowd  were 
motionless  in  terrified  silence.  The  groups  of  cavaliers 
were  approaching  at  a  mad  gallop,  but  their  help  would 
come  too  late,  the  bull  was  already  pawing  the  ground 
with  its  forefeet,  and  lowering  his  head,  to  attack  that 
slight  figure  threatening  him  with  her  lance.  One  simple 
blow  of  those  horns  and  all  would  be  over.  But  at  that 
instant  a  ferocious  bellowing  drew  the  bull's  attention 
and  something  red  passed  before  his  eyes  like  a  flame  of 
fire. 

It  was  Gallardo,  who  had  thrown  himself  off  his 
horse,  dropping  his  lance,  to  seize  the  overcoat  strapped 
on  to  his  saddle  bow. 

"Eeee!    EntraT^  . 

And  the  bull  attacked,  running  after  the  red  lining 
of  the  jacket,  attracted  by  this  adversary  so  worthy  of 
him,  turning  his  hind  quarters  to  the  figure  in  the  black 
riding  skirt  and  violet  jacket,  who  still  stood  stupefied 
by  the  danger,  with  her  lance  under  her  arm. 

"Do  not  be  afraid,  Dona  Sol,  he  is  mine,"  said  the 

*  The  cry  used  to  incite  a  bull  to  attack — lit.  enter,  come  along; 
and  attack. 


136  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

torero,  pale  with  emotion,  but  smiling,  sure  of  his  dex- 
terity. 

With  no  other  defence  but  his  jacket,  he  baited  the 
brute,  drawing  it  away  from  the  lady,  and  avoiding  its 
furious  attacks  by  graceful  bendings. 

The  crowd,  forgetting  their  previous  fright,  began  to 
applaud  tremendously.  What  a  joy!  To  have  come  to 
see  a  simple  "derribo"  and  to  see  gratuitously  an  almost 
regular  corrida,  with  Gallardo  fighting ! 

The  torero,  warmed  by  the  impetuosity  of  the  bull's 
attack,  forgot  Dona  Sol  and  everything  else,  intent  only 
on  slipping  away  from  his  attacks.  The  bull  turned 
again  and  again,  furious  at  seeing  this  invulnerable  man 
slipping  away  from  between  his  horns,  and  constantly 
meeting  the  red  lining  of  the  coat  instead. 

At  last  he  was  wearied  out,  and  stood  motionless  with 
his  head  low,  and  his  muzzle  covered  with  foam;  then 
Gallardo,  taking  advantage  of  the  brute's  bewilderment, 
took  off  his  hat  and  laid  it  between  the  horns.  An  im- 
mense howl  of  delight  arose  from  the  palisade,  greeting 
this  exploit. 

Then  shouts  and  bells  rang  out  behind  Gallardo,  and 
a  crowd  of  herdsmen  and  bell  oxen  surrounded  the 
brute,  and  slowly  enticed  him  towards  the  main  body  of 
the  herd. 

Gallardo  went  in  search  of  his  horse,  who,  accus- 
tomed to  being  near  bulls,  had  not  moved,  picked  up  his 
garrocha,  mounted  and  then  cantered  slowly  towards  the 
palisade;  prolonging  in  this  way  the  noisy  rounds  of 
applause  from  the  populace. 

The  riders  who  had  escorted  Dona  Sol  greeted  the 
espada  with  the  greatest  display  of  enthusiasm,  his  man- 
ager winked  at  him  and  then  whispered  mysteriously : 

"Gacho,  you  have  not  been  behindhand.  Very  good; 
extremely  good!     Now  I  tell  you  she  is  yours." 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  137 

Outside  the  palisade,  Dona  Sol  was  sitting  in  a  lan- 
dau, with  the  Marquis's  daughters.  Her  terrified  cousins 
felt  her  all  over,  determined  to  find  something  put  out  of 
joint  by  her  fall.  They  offered  her  glasses  of  Man- 
zanilla  to  get  over  her  fright,  but  she,  smiling  vaguely, 
received  these  evidences  of  feminine  concern  with  con- 
temptuous indifference. 

As  she  saw  Gallardo  pushing  his  horse  through  the 
ranks  of  people,  between  waving  hats  and  outstretched 
hands,  she  smiled  cordially. 

"Come  here  to  me,  Cid  Campeador!^  Give  me  your 
hand." 

And  once  again  their  right  hands  met,  in  a  long,  vig- 
orous clasp. 

That  evening  the  affair  of  which  all  Seville  was  talk- 
ing, was  also  much  canvassed  in  the  matador's  house. 
The  Senora  Angustias  was  beaming  as  after  a  great  cor- 
rida. Her  son  saving  one  of  those  great  ladies,  whom 
she,  accustomed  to  years  of  servitude,  had  always  looked 
upon  with  such  deference  and  admiration!  but  Carmen 
remained  silent,  not  knowing  quite  what  to  think  of  the 
occurrence. 

Many  days  passed  without  Gallardo  having  any  news 
of  Dona  Sol.  His  manager  was  out  of  town,  at  a  hunt- 
ing party  with  some  of  his  friends  of  the  "Forty-Five." 
But  one  evening  Don  Jose  went  to  seek  his  matador  at  a 
cafe  in  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,  where  many  amateurs  of 
"the  sport"  gathered.  He  had  only  returned  a  couple 
of  hours  previously  from  the  hunting  party,  and  had 
gone  at  once  to  Dona  Sol's  house,  in  consequence  of  a 
note  which  he  had  found  waiting  for  him. 

"God  bless  me,  man!  you  are  worse  than  a  wolf!" 
said  the  manager,  marching  his  man  out  of  the  cafe. 
"The  lady  expected  you  at  her  house.  She  has  stayed 
*  It  is  recorded  that  the  Cid  tilted  at  bulls  with  his  lance. 


138  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

at  home  evening-  after  evening  thinking  you  might  come 
at  any  moment.  Such  things  are  not  done.  After  being 
presented,  and  after  what  happened  you  owed  her  a 
visit,  were  it  only  to  enquire  after  her  health." 

The  espada  stopped,  scratching  his  head  under  his 
felt  hat. 

"It  is,"  he  murmured  uneasily  .  ,  .  "it  is  .  .  .  well  I 
must  say  it  out  ...  It  frightens  me  .  .  .  Now,  Serior, 
it  is  said  .  .  .  Yes,  it  frightens  me.  You  know  well 
enough  I  am  no  laggard,  that  I  can  carry  on  with  most 
women,  and  say  a  few  words  to  a  'gach;'  as  well  as  any- 
one else.  But  this  one — no.  She  is  a  lady  who  knows 
more  than  Lepe,  ^  and  when  I  see  her  I  feel  I  am  an 
ignorant  brute,  and  keep  my  mouth  shut,  as  I  cannot 
speak  without  putting  my  foot  in  it.  No,  Don  Jose  .  .  . 
I  am  not  going.     I  ought  not  to  go!" 

But  Don  Jose  ended  by  over  persuading  him,  and 
finally  carried  him  off  to  Dona  Sol's  house,  talking  as 
he  went  of  his  interview  with  that  lady.  She  seemed 
rather  oifended  at  Gallardo's  neglect.  All  the  best  peo- 
ple in  Seville  had  been  to  see  her  after  her  accident, 
except  himself. 

"You  know  that  a  torero  ought  to  stand  well  with 
people  of  good  position.  It  is  only  a  matter  of  having 
a  little  education  and  showing  that  you  are  not  a  cow- 
herd brought  up  in  a  stable.  Just  think.  A  great  lady 
like  that  to  distinguish  you  and  expect  you!  .  .  .  Stuff 
and  nonsense,  I  shall  go  with  you." 

"Ah !  if  you  go  with  me !" 

And  Gallardo  breathed  again,  as  if  freed  from  the 
weight  of  a  great  fear. 

The  "patio"  of  Dona  Sol's  house  was  in  Moorish  style, 
the  delicate  work  of  its  coloured  arches  making  one 
think  of  the  Alhambra.  The  ripple  of  a  fountain,  in 
*  A  proverbially  learned  Bishop. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  139 

w^ose  basin  gold  fish  were  swimming,  murmured  gently 
in  the  evening  silence.  In  the  four  galleries  with  ceil- 
ings of  inlaid  Moorish  work/  which  were  divided  from 
the  patio  by  marble  pillars,  he  saw  ancient  carved  panels, 
dark  pictures  of  saints  with  livid  faces,  ancient  furni- 
ture with  rusty  iron  mountings,  so  riddled  with  worm 
holes,  that  tJ>ey  looked  as  if  they  had  had  a  charge  of 
shot. 

A  servant  shewed  them  up  the  wide  marble  staircase, 
and  there  again  the  torero  was  surprised  to  see  retablos 
with  dark  figures  on  gold  grounds,  massive  virgins,  who 
looked  as  if  they  had  been  cut  out  with  a  hatchet,  painted 
in  faded  colours  and  dull  gilding;  tapestries  of  soft  dead 
leaf  colour,  framed  in  borders  of  fruit  and  flowers,  of 
which  one  represented  scenes  of  Calvary,  while  the 
other  represented  hairy,  homed,  and  cloven-footed 
satyrs,  whom  lightly-clad  nymphs  seemed  to  be  fighting 
like  bulls. 

"See  what  ignorance  is!"  said  the  matador  to  Don 
Jose.  "I  thought  that  sort  of  thing  was  only  good  for 
convents!  But  it  seems  that  these  people  also  value 
them."  .  .  . 

Upstairs,  the  electric  lamps  were  lighted  as  they 
passed,  while  the  sunset  splendours  still  shone  through 
the  windows. 

Gallardo  experienced  fresh  surprises.  He,  so  proud 
of  his  furniture  bought  in  Madrid,  all  quilted  with  bright 
silks,  heavily  and  richly  carved,  which  seemed  to  cry 
out  the  amount  they  had  cost,  could  not  get  over  seeing 
light  and  fragile  chairs,  white  or  green;  tables  and  cup- 
boards of  simple  outline,  walls  of  one  colour,  with  only 
a  few  pictures  wide  apart  hanging  by  thick  cords — a 
luxury  of  which  the  beautiful  polish  seemed  due  only  to 
the  finish  of  the  carpenters'  work.    He  was  ashamed  ol 

*  Artesonada. 


140  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

his  own  surprise,  and  at  what  he  had  admired  in  his  own 
house  as  supreme  luxury.  "See  what  ignorance  is!" 
And  he  sat  down  with  fear,  dreading  that  the  chair 
would  break  under  his  weight. 

The  entrance  of  Dofia  Sol  disturbed  his  reflections. 
He  saw  her,  as  he  had  never  seen  her  before,  without 
either  hat  or  mantilla,  her  head  crowned  by  that  shim- 
mering hair  which  seemed  to  justify  her  romantic  name. 
Her  beautiful  white  arms  showed  through  the  hanging 
silk  sleeves  of  a  Japanese  tunic,  which  also  left  uncov- 
ered the  curve  of  her  beautiful  neck,  marked  by  the  two 
lines  called  Venus'  necklace.  As  she  moved  her  hands, 
stones  of  all  colours,  set  in  curiously  shaped  rings  which 
covered  her  fingers,  flashed  brilliantly.  On  her  delicate 
wrists  gold  bracelets  tinkled,  one  of  Oriental  filigree 
worked  with  some  mysterious  inscription,  the  others 
heavy  and  massive  to  which  were  hung  various  small 
charms  and  amulets,  souvenirs  of  foreign  travel.  When 
she  sat  down  to  talk  she  crossed  her  legs  with  mascu- 
line freedom,  balancing  on  her  toe  a  small  red  golden- 
heeled  papouche,  like  an  embroidered  toy. 

Gallardo's  ears  were  buzzing,  his  eyes  were  dim, 
he  could  scarcely  distinguish  the  two  clear  eyes  fixed 
on  him  with  an  expression  at  once  caressing  and  ironical. 
To  conceal  his  emotion  he  smiled,  showing  his  teeth — 
the  stiff  stereotyped  smile  of  a  child  who  wishes  to  be 
amiable. 

"No  indeed,  Senora!  .  .  .  Many  thanks.  ...  It  is 
not  worth  the  trouble,"  was  all  he  could  stammer  to 
Dofia  Sol's  grateful  acknowledgment  of  his  exploit  the 
other  evening. 

Little  by  little  Gallardo  recovered  his  calm,  and  as 
the  lady  and  his  manager  began  to  speak  of  bulls  he  at 
last  gained  confidence.  She  had  seen  him  kill  several 
times,    and    remembered   the    principal    incidents   with 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  141 

great  exactitude.  He  felt  proud  to  think  this  woman 
watched  him  at  such  moments,  and  had  kept  the  remem- 
brance fresh  in  her  memory. 

She  had  opened  a  lacquered  box  decorated  with  strange 
flowers  and  offered  the  two  men  gold-tipped  cigarettes 
which  exhaled  a  strange  and  pungent  scent. 

*'They  have  opium  in  them,"  she  said,  "they  are  very 
nice." 

She  lighted  one  herself,  and  with  her  greenish  eyes 
which  in  the  light  seemed  like  liquid  gold,  she  followed 
the  waving  spirals  of  smoke. 

The  torero,  accustomed  to  strong  Havanas,  inhaled 
the  smoke  of  this  cigarette  with  curiosity.  Nothing  but 
straw — a  thing  to  please  ladies.  But  the  strange  per- 
fume spread  by  the  smoke  seemed  slowly  to  dissipate  his 
timidity. 

Dona  Sol,  fixing  her  eyes  on  him,  questioned  him  about 
his  life.  She  wanted  to  be  behind  the  scenes  of  glory, 
to  know  the  inner  lining  of  celebrity,  the  miserable  and 
wandering  life  of  a  torero  who  has  not  yet  succeeded 
in  gaining  the  good  will  of  the  public,  and  Gallardo  talked 
and  talked  with  sudden  confidence,  telHng  her  of  his 
early  days,  dwelling,  with  proud  insistence,  on  the  hum- 
bleness of  his  origin,  although  he  omitted  anything  he 
considered  shameful  in  the  story  of  his  adventurous 
youth. 

*'How  very  interesting.  .  .  .  How  very  original"  .  .  . 
said  the  beautiful  woman 

Turning  her  eyes  from  the  torero  she  seemed  lost 
in  the  contemplation  of  something  invisible. 

"The  first  man  in  the  world!"  exclaimed  Don  Jose, 
with  rough  enthusiasm.  "Believe  me,  Sol,  there  are  not 
two  men  like  him.    And  how  impervious  to  wounds !" 

As  proud  of  Gallardo's  strength  as  though  he  were  his 
father,  he  enumerated  the  different  wounds  that  Gallardo 


142  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

had  received,  describing  them  as  if  he  saw  them  through 
his  clothes.  The  lady's  eyes  followed  this  anatomical 
journey  with  sincere  admiration.  A  real  hero,  simple, 
embarrassed,  retiring,  like  all  strong  men. 

The  manager  spoke  of  going  away;  it  was  seven 
o'clock  and  he  would  be  expected  at  home.  But  Dona 
Sol  remonstrated  with  smiling  insistence;  they  really 
must  both  of  them  stay  to  dinner ;  it  was  an  unceremoni- 
ous invitation,  but  that  evening  she  was  not  expecting 
anyone,  she  would  be  alone  as  the  Marquis  and  his  fam- 
ily had  gone  into  the  country. 

*T  shall  be  quite  alone  .  .  .  Not  another  word,  I 
command  it;  you  must  do  penance  with  me.'* 

And  as  if  her  commands  admitted  of  no  reply,  she 
left  the  room. 

The  manager  demurred;  he  really  could  not  stay;  he 
had  already  come  out  that  afternoon  and  so  his  family 
had  hardly  seen  him ;  besides  he  had  invited  two  friends. 
As  far  as  concerned  his  matador,  it  seemed  quite  cor- 
rect and  natural  that  he  should  stay,  for  really  the  invi- 
tation was  for  him. 

"But  you  really  must  stay,"  said  the  espada  in  agony. 
"Curse  it!  .  .  .  You  are  never  going  to  leave  me  alone. 
I  should  not  know  what  to  do,  nor  what  to  say." 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  afterwards  Dona  Sol  returned 
to  the  room,  wearing  now  one  of  those  creations  of 
Paquin,  which  were  at  once  the  despair  and  the  wonder 
of  her  friends  and  relations. 

Don  Jose  persisted ;  he  really  must  go,  it  was  unavoid- 
able, but  his  matador  would  remain,  and  he  undertook 
to  let  them  know  at  his  house  that  they  were  not  to 
expect  him. 

Gallardo  made  an  agonized  gesture,  but  was  a  little 
quieted  by  a  look  from  his  manager. 

"Don't  be  uneasy."  he  whispered  as  he  went  towards 


k 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  143 

the  door.  "Do  you  think  I  am  a  child?  I  shall  say  you 
are  dining  with  some  amateurs  from  Madrid.'* 

What  torments  the  torero  suffered  the  first  few  mo- 
ments at  dinner!  .  .  .  The  grave  and  seigniorial  luxury 
of  the  room  intimidated  him;  he  and  his  hostess  seemed 
lost  in  it,  sitting  opposite  to  each  other  in  the  middle  of 
that  big  table  with  its  enormous  silver  candelabra  fitted 
with  electric  light  and  pink  shades. 

The  imposing  servants,  stiff  and  ceremonious,  who 
looked  as  if  nothing  could  upset  their  gravity,  inspired 
him  with  respect.  He  was  ashamed  of  his  clothes  and 
of  his  manners,  feeling  the  great  contrast  between  the 
surrounding  atmosphere  and  his  own  appearance. 

But  this  first  feeling  of  shyness  and  timidity  soon  van- 
ished, and  Dona  Sol  laughed  at  his  abstemiousness  and 
the  dread  with  which  he  touched  the  plates  and  glasses. 
Gallardo  looked  at  her  admiringly,  certainly  the  golden- 
haired  lady  had  a  fine  appetite !  Accustomed  as  he  was 
to  the  prudery  and  abstentions  of  ladies  he  had  known, 
who  thought  it  bad  form  to  eat  anything,  he  was  aston- 
ished at  Dofia  Sol's  appetite. 

Gallardo,  encouraged  by  her  example,  ate,  and  above 
all  drank,  drank  deeply,  seeking  in  the  many  fine  wines 
a  remedy  for  that  nervousness  which  had  made  him  so 
shamefaced,  and  unable  to  do  anything  but  smile  as  he 
constantly  repeated,  "Many  thanks." 

The  conversation  became  more  lively.  The  espada 
began  to  be  talkative  and  told  her  many  amusing  inci- 
dents of  bull-fighting  life,  ending  by  telling  her  of  El 
Nacional's  original  ideas,  of  the  feats  of  his  picador 
Potaje,  who  swallowed  hard-boiled  eggs  whole,  who  was 
half  an  ear  short,  because  a  companion  had  bitten  it  off, 
who,  when  he  was  taken  wounded  to  the  infirmary  of  a 
Plaza,  fell  on  the  bed  with  such  a  weight  of  iron  armour 
and  muscles  that  his  big  spurs  pierced  the  mattress  and 


144  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

he  had  subsequently  to  be  disentangled  with  extreme  dif- 
ficulty. 

"How  very  interesting!    How  very  original!" 

Dona  Sol  smiled  as  she  listened  to  the  anecdotes  of 
these  rough  men,  always  face  to  face  with  death,  whom 
she  had  hitherto  only  admired  from  a  distance. 

The  champagne  ended  by  bewildering  Gallardo,  and 
when  they  rose  from  the  table  he  offered  his  arm  to  his 
hostess,  amazed  at  his  own  audacity.  Did  they  not  do 
this  in  the  great  world?  .  .  .  decidedly  he  was  not  quite 
so  ignorant  as  he  had  appeared  at  first  sight. 

Coffee  was  served  in  the  drawing-room,  where  in  a 
comer  Gallardo  spied  a  guitar,  no  doubt  the  one  on  which 
Lechuzo  gave  Dona  Sol  her  lessons.  She  offered  it  to 
him,  asking  him  to  play  something. 

"I  do  not  know  how!  ...  I  am  the  most  ignorant 
man  in  the  world,  except  about  killing  bulls !"  .  .  .  He 
much  regretted  that  the  Puntillero  ^  of  his  cuadrilla  was 
not  there,  a  lad  who  drove  the  women  wild  with  his 
beautiful  playing. 

There  was  a  long  silence,  Gallardo  sat  on  a  sofa  smok- 
ing a  splendid  Havana,  while  Dofia  Sol  smoked  one  of 
those  cigarettes  whose  perfume  seemed  to  induce  a  vague 
drowsiness.  The  torero  felt  sleepy  after  his  dinner,  and 
scarcely  opened  his  mouth  to  answer  except  by  a  fixed 
smile. 

Doubtless  this  silence  bored  Dofia  Sol,  for  she  rose 
and  went  to  the  grand  piano,  which  soon  rang  under  her 
vigorous  touch  with  the  rhythm  of  a  Malagueiia. 

*'01e!  That  is  fine!"  said  the  torero,  shaking  off  his 
drowsiness!     "Capital  .  .  .  Very  good!" 

After  the  Malaguefias  she  played  some  Sevillanas,  and 

*  Man  who  gives  the  coup  de  grace  to  a  bull  with  a  dagger,  if 
the  matador  has  failed  to  kill  it  with  his  sword  thrust. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  145 

then  some  Andalusian  popular  songs,  all  melancholy,  with 
an  Oriental  ring. 

Gallardo  interrupted  the  singing  with  his  exclamations 
just  as  he  would  have  done  before  the  stage  of  a  cafe 
chantant. 

"Well  done,  the  golden  hands !    Now  for  another !" 

"Are  you  fond  of  music?"  enquired  the  lady. 

"Oh,  very,"  replied  Gallardo,  who  up  to  now  had  never 
asked  himself  the  question. 

Dofia  Sol  passed  slowly  from  these  lively  measures  to 
something  slow  and  more  solemn,  which  Gallardo  with 
his  philharmonic  learning  recognised  as  "Church  music." 

There  were  no  exclamations  now.  He  felt  himself 
overcome  by  a  delicious  sleepiness ;  his  eyes  were  closing, 
and  he  felt  certain  that  if  this  concert  went  on  much 
longer  he  should  be  fast  asleep. 

To  prevent  this  catastrophe  Gallardo  gazed  at  the 
beautiful  woman  who  had  turned  her  back  to  him. 
Mother  of  God!  What  a  beautiful  figure,  and  he  fixed 
his  African  eyes  on  the  round  white  neck,  crowned  with 
the  waving  curls  of  golden  hair.  An  absurd  idea  floated 
before  his  confused  mind,  keeping  him  awake  with  the 
itching  of  its  temptation. 

"What  would  that  gachi  do  if  I  went  up  softly  on  tip- 
toe and  kissed  that  beautiful  neck?"  .  .  . 

But  his  thoughts  went  no  further.  The  woman  in- 
spired him  with  irresistible  respect.  He  remembered 
what  his  manager  had  said,  and  how  she  managed  men 
as  if  they  were  playthings.  Still,  he  looked  at  that  neck, 
though  the  mist  of  sleep  was  spreading  before  his  eyes. 
He  knew  he  would  fall  asleep !  And  he  feared  that  soon 
a  loud  snore  would  interrupt  that  music,  which  although 
quite  incomprehensible  to  him  must  be  magnificent.  He 
pinched  his  thighs  and  stretched  his  arms  to  keep  him- 
self awake,  smothering  his  yawns  with  his  hand. 


146  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

A  long  time  passed.  Gallardo  was  not  quite  sure  he 
had  not  been  asleep.  Suddenly  the  sound  of  Dona  Sol's 
voice  woke  him  from  his  drowsiness ;  she  was  singing  in 
a  low  voice  that  trembled  with  passion. 

The  torero  pricked  up  his  ears  to  listen.  He  could 
not  understand  a  word.  It  was  something  foreign.  Curse 
it!  .  .  .  Why  could  she  not  sing  a  tango  or  something 
of  the  sort?  .  .  .  And  she  expected  a  Christian  to  keep 
awake!  .  .  . 

She  was  singing,  as  in  a  waking  dream,  Elsa's  prayer, 
the  lament  for  the  strong  man,  the  great  warrior,  so  in- 
vincible to  men,  so  tender  to  women.  That  tender  and 
strong  man !  .  .  .  that  warrior  .  .  .  Was  it  possibly  the 
man  behind  her  .  .  .  Why  not?  .  .  . 

He  certainly  had  not  the  legendary  aspect  of  that 
other  warrior.  He  was  rough  and  heavy.  Still  she  re- 
membered clearly  the  gallantry  with  which  he  had  come 
to  her  aid  the  other  day,  the  smiling  confidence  with 
which  he  had  fought  the  bellowing  brute,  just  as  the 
other  heroes  fought  with  terrifying  dragons;  yes,  he 
was  her  warrior! 

She  shook  from  head  to  foot  with  voluptuous  dread, 
acknowledging  herself  beforehand  as  conquered.  She 
thought  she  could  feel  the  sweet  danger  which  was  ap- 
proaching her  from  behind.  She  could  see  her  hero,  her 
paladin,  rise  from  the  sofa,  with  his  Moorish  eyes  fixed 
on  her;  she  could  hear  his  cautious  footsteps,  she  could 
feel  his  hands  on  her  shoulders,  and  a  kiss  of  fire  on  her 
neck,  a  sign  of  passion  which  would  seal  her  for  ever  as 
his  slave.  .  .  .  But  the  romance  ended  without  anything 
happening,  without  her  feeling  anything  on  her  spine, 
beyond  the  thrill  of  her  own  trembling  desire. 

Deceived  by  his  respect,  she  ceased  playing  and  turned 
round  on  her  music  stool.  The  warrior  was  opposite  to 
her,  buried  in  the  sofa  cushions,  trying  for  the  twentieth 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  147 

time  to  light  his  cigar,  opening  his  eyes  wide  to  overcome 
his  drowsiness. 

When  he  saw  her  eyes  fixed  on  him,  Gallardo  rose. 
Ay!  the  supreme  moment  was  coming!  Her  hero  was 
coming  towards  her  to  clasp  her  in  his  passionate  and 
manly  embrace,  to  conquer  her  and  make  her  his  own. 

"Good-night,  Dona  Sol  ...  It  is  getting  late  and  I 
am  going.     You  will  wish  to  rest." 

Between  surprise  and  pique  she  also  stood  up,  and 
scarcely  knowing  what  she  did  held  out  her  hand.  .  .  . 
Tender  and  strong  as  a  hero! 

Thoughts  of  feminine  conventionality  rushed  wildly 
through  her  mind,  all  those  restraints  which  a  woman 
never  forgets  even  in  her  moments  of  greatest  self-aban- 
donment. Her  longing  was  not  possible.  The  first  time 
he  had  ever  entered  her  house!  .  .  .  And  without  the 
slightest  show  of  resistance!  .  .  . 

But  as  she  clasped  the  espada's  hand,  and  saw  his 
eyes,  eyes  that  could  only  look  at  her  with  passionate  in- 
tensity, trusting  to  the  mute  expression  of  his  timid 
desires. 

"Do  not  go!  .  .  .   Come!   Come!!" 

And  nothing  more  was  said. 


CHAPTER   IV 

A  GREAT  satisfaction  to  his  vanity  was  added  to  the 
numerous  other  reasons  Gallardo  had  for  being  proud 
of  his  person. 

When  he  spoke  with  the  Marquis  de  Moraima  he  re- 
garded him  with  an  almost  filial  affection.  That  gentle- 
man, dressed  as  a  countrv-man,  a  rough  centaur  with 
"Zajones"  and  a  strong  garrocha,  was  an  illustrious  per- 
sonage, who  could  cover  his  breast  with  ribbons  and 
crosses,  and  in  the  king's  palace  wore  an  embroidered 
coat,  with  a  gold  key  sewn  on  to  one  flap.  His  remote 
ancestors  had  come  to  Seville  with  that  monarch  who 
had  expelled  the  Moors,  and  had  received  as  reward 
for  their  great  exploits,  immense  territories  wrested  from 
the  enemy,  the  remains  of  which  were  those  vast  plains 
on  which  the  ]\Iarquis  now  reared  his  cattle.  And  this 
great  nobleman,  frank  and  generous,  who  preserved,  not- 
withstanding the  simplicity  of  his  country  life,  the  dis- 
tinction of  his  illustrious  ancestry,  was  looked  upon  by 
Gallardo  as  in  some  sort  a  near  relation. 

The  cobbler's  son  was  just  as  proud  as  if  he  had  in 
reality  become  a  member  of  the  Marquis's  family.  The 
Marquis  de  ]\Ioraima  was  his  uncle,  and  though  he  could 
neither  announce  it  publicly,  nor  was  the  relationship 
legitimate,  he  consoled  himself  by  thinking  of  the  as- 
cendency he  exercised  over  one  female  of  the  family, 
thanks  to  a  love  which  seemed  to  laugh  at  all  prejudices 
of  rank. 

All  those  gentlemen  who  up  to  now  had  treated  him 
with  the  rather  disdainful   familiarity  with  which  the 

148 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  149 

patrons  of  the  sport  of  rank  treat  toreros,  were  now  in 
some  sort  his  cousins,  and  he  began  to  treat  them  as 
equals. 

His  life  and  habits  had  completely  changed.  He  sel- 
dom entered  the  cafes  in  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,  where 
most  of  the  amateurs  assembled.  They  were  good  sort 
of  people,  simple  and  enthusiastic,  but  of  little  impor- 
tance; small  tradesmen,  workmen  who  had  become  em- 
ployers, small  clerks,  nondescripts  without  profession, 
who  lived  miraculously  by  strange  expedients,  appar- 
ently having  no  other  business  than  to  talk  of  bulls. 

Gallardo  passed  by  the  windows  of  these  cafes,  salut- 
ing his  admirers,  who  waved  frantically  to  him  to  come 
in.  "I  will  return  presently";  he,  however,  did  not  re- 
turn, he  went  further  up  the  street  to  a  very  aristocratic 
club,  decorated  in  the  Gothic  style,  where  the  servants 
wore  knee  breeches,  and  the  tables  were  covered  with 
silver  plate. 

The  son  of  Sefiora  Angustias  could  not  repress  a  feel- 
ing of  pride  each  time  he  passed  through  the  rows  of 
servants  drawn  up  on  either  side  like  soldiers,  or  when  a 
Major-domo,  with  a  silver  chain  round  his  neck,  came  to 
take  his  hat  and  stick.  In  one  room  fencing  was  prac- 
tised, in  another  they  gambled  from  the  early  hours  of 
the  afternoon  till  dawn.  The  members  tolerated  Gallardo 
because  he  was  a  "decent"  torero,  who  spent  a  good  deal 
of  money,  and  had  powerful  friends. 

"He  is  very  well  educated,"  said  the  members  gravely, 
realizing  that  he  knew  just  about  as  much  as  they  did. 

The  sympathetic  personality  of  his  well-connected 
manager,  Don  Jose,  served  the  torero  as  a  guarantee  in 
his  new  existence.  Besides,  Gallardo,  with  the  cunning 
of  a  former  street  urchin,  knew  how  to  make  himself 
popular  with  this  brilliant  set,  among  whom  he  met 
"relations"  by  the  dozen. 


150  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  played  heavily.  It  was  the  best  way  of  drawing 
closer  to  his  new  friends.  He  played  and  lost,  with  the 
proverbial  ill-luck  of  a  man  fortunate  in  other  under- 
takings, and  his  ill-luck  became  a  matter  of  pride  to  the 
club. 

"Gallardo  was  cleared  out  last  night,"  said  the  mem- 
bers proudly.  "He  must  have  lost  at  least  eleven  thou- 
sand pesetas." 

The  calmness  with  which  he  lost  his  money  made  his 
new  friends  respect  him,  but  the  new  passion  soon  grew 
upon  him,  even  to  the  point  of  making  him  sometimes 
forget  his  great  lady.  To  play  with  all  the  best  in  Se- 
ville! To  find  himself  treated  as  an  equal  by  these  gen- 
tlemen! Thanks  to  the  fraternity  established  by  loans 
of  money  and  common  emotions ! 

One  night  a  large  lamp  suddenly  crashed  down  on  to 
the  green  table.  There  was  sudden  darkness  and  wild 
confusion,  but  the  imperious  voice  of  Gallardo  rang  out : 

"Calm  yourselves,  gentlemen.  Nothing  much  has  hap- 
pened. Let  the  game  go  on.  They  are  bringing  can- 
dles." 

And  the  game  went  on,  his  companions  admiring  him 
even  more  for  his  energetic  speech,  than  for  the  way  in 
which  he  killed  his  bulls. 

The  manager's  friends  questioned  him  as  to  Gallardo's 
losses.  Surely  he  would  ruin  himself:  everything  he 
earned  by  bull-fighting  he  lost  by  gambling.  But  Don 
Jose  smiled  disdainfully. 

"This  year  we  had  more  corridas  than  anyone  else. 
We  shall  become  tired  of  killing  bulls  and  piling  up 
money.  .  .  .  Let  the  lad  enjoy  himself.  He  works  for 
this  and  is  what  he  is  .  .  .  the  first  man  in  the  world." 

In  his  new  existence  Gallardo  not  only  frequented  this 
club,  but  some  afternoons  he  went  to  the  "Forty-Five," 
which  was  a  kind  of  Senate  of  tauromachia.    The  toreros 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  151 

as  a  rule  did  not  gain  easy  access  to  its  precincts,  for 
their  absence  admitted  of  the  fathers  of  the  "sport"  giv- 
ing free  vent  to  their  various  opinions. 

During  the  spring  and  summer  the  members  met  in 
the  vestibule,  and  overflowed  into  the  street,  sitting  on 
cane  chairs,  waiting  for  telegrams  about  the  different 
corridas.  They  believed  very  little  in  the  opinions  of 
the  Press ;  besides  it  was  necessary  for  them  to  have  the 
news  before  it  got  into  the  papers. 

It  was  an  occupation  that  filled  them  with  pride  and 
elevated  them  above  their  fellow  mortals,  to  sit  quietly 
at  the  door  of  their  club  breathing  the  fresh  air  an4 
knowing  exactly,  without  interested  exaggerations,  what 
had  happened  that  afternoon  in  the  corrida  of  Bilbao, 
Coruna,  Barcelona,  or  Valencia ;  how  many  ears  one 
matador  had  received,  how  another  one  had  been  hissed, 
while  their  fellow-townsmen  remained  in  complete  igno- 
rance, waiting  about  the  streets  till  the  evening  papers 
were  published.  When  there  was  "hule"  and  a  telegrani 
came  announcing  the  terrible  wounds  of  some  native 
torero  their  feelings  and  their  patriotic  solidarity  soft* 
ened  them  sufficiently  to  admit  of  their  imparting  the  mo. 
mentous  secret  to  some  passing  friend.  The  news  flew 
instantaneously  through  the  cafes  in  the  Calle  de  las 
Sierpes,  and  no  one  could  doubt  it  for  an  instant,  fof 
was  it  not  a  telegram  received  by  the  "Forty-Five"? 

Gallardo's  manager,  with  his  aggressive  and  noisy  en-- 
thusiasm,  rather  disturbed  the  social  gravity.  They  en- 
dured it  as  he  was  an  old  friend,  and  ended  by  laughing 
at  his  flights.  But  it  was  impossible  for  sensible  men  to 
discuss  the  merits  of  the  various  toreros  quietly  with 
Don  Jose.  Often  when  they  alluded  to  Gallardo  as  "a 
very  brave  fellow,  but  without  much  art"  they  would 
look  timorously  towards  the  door. 


152  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"Hush !  Pepe  ^  is  coming,"  and  Pepe  would  enter  wav- 
ing a  telegram  above  his  head. 

"Is  that  news  from  Santander  ?"  .  .  .  "Yes !  here  it  is : 
Gallardo,  two  estocades  .  .  .  two  bulls  .  .  .  and  the  ear  of 
the  second.  Just  what  I  said!  The  first  man  in  the 
world." 

The  telegrams  to  the  "Forty-Five"  often  differed,  but 
Don  Jose  would  pass  it  over  with  a  gesture  of  con- 
tempt, breaking  out  into  noisy  protests. 

"Lies !  All  envy !  My  wire  is  the  true  one.  What  is 
in  yours  is  only  envy  because  'my  lad'  has  lowered  so 
many  chignons." 

All  the  members  laughed  at  Don  Jose,  lifting  a  finger 
to  their  foreheads  and  joking  about  the  first  man  in  the 
world,  and  his  kind  manager. 

Little  by  little  Gallardo  had  succeeded,  as  an  un- 
heard-of privilege,  in  introducing  himself  into  this  so- 
ciety. The  torero  would  come  at  first  under  pretext  of 
looking  for  his  manager,  and  ended  by  sitting  down 
among  the  gentlemen,  although  there  were  many  who 
were  no  friends  to  him  and  who  had  chosen  other  mata- 
dors from  among  his  rivals. 

The  decoration  of  the  house,  according  to  Don  Jose, 
was  full  of  "character."  The  lower  part  of  the  walls 
were  covered  with  Moorish  tiles,  and  on  the  immacu- 
lately white  walls  hung  announcements  of  ancient  cor- 
ridas, stuffed  bulls'  heads,  of  animals  celebrated  either 
for  the  number  of  horses  they  had  killed,  or  for  having 
wounded  some  celebrated  torero;  together  with  proces- 
sion capes  and  rapiers  presented  by  espadas  who  had 
"cut  off  their  pigtails"  and  retired  from  the  profession. 

Servants  in  dress  coats  served  the  gentlemen  in  their 
country  clothes,  or  possibly  in  their  shirt  sleeves,  during 
the  hot  summer  evenings.  During  the  Holy  Week  and 
*  Diminutive  of  Jose. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  153 

other  great  holidays  in  Seville,  when  illustrious  enthusi- 
asts from  every  part  of  Spain  came  and  paid  their  re- 
spects to  the  "Forty-Five,"  the  servants  wore  knee 
breeches  and  powdered  wigs,  donned  the  royal  livery  of 
red  and  yellow,  and  dressed  thus,  like  servants  of  the 
royal  household,  handed  glasses  of  Manzanilla  to  these 
wealthy  gentlemen,  many  of  whom  had  even  dispensed 
with  their  ties. 

In  the  evenings  when  the  doyen,  the  illustrious  Mar- 
quis de  Moraima,  came  in,  the  members  in  big  arm- 
chairs formed  a  circle  round  him,  and  the  famous  breeder 
in  a  chair  higher  than  the  others  presided  over  the  con- 
versation. For  the  most  part  they  began  by  talking  of 
the  weather.  Most  of  them  were  great  breeders  or 
wealthy  landed  proprietors,  whose  living  depended  on  the 
necessities  of  the  earth,  and  the  variations  of  the  weather. 
The  Marquis  explained  the  observations  that  his  wis- 
dom had  gathered,  during  interminable  rides  over  the 
lonely  Andalusian  plains,  so  immense  and  solitary,  with 
wide  horizons,  like  the  sea,  on  which  the  bulls,  slowly 
moving  among  the  waves  of  verdure,  seemed  like  bask- 
ing sharks.  He  could  generally  see  some  piece  of  paper 
blown  about  the  street  which  served  as  a  basis  to  his 
predictions.  The  drought,  that  cruel  scourge  of  the 
Andalusian  plains,  gave  them  conversation  for  a  whole 
afternoon,  and  when  after  weeks  of  anxious  expecta- 
tion the  overcast  sky  would  discharge  a  few  big  hot 
drops,  the  great  country  gentlemen  would  smile,  rubbing 
their  hands,  and  the  Marquis  would  say  sententiously,  as 
he  looked  at  the  great  round  splashes  on  the  pavement: 

"Glory  be  to  God !  .  .  .  Each  drop  of  this  is  worth  a 
five  duro  piece." 

When  they  were  not  anxious  about  the  weather,  cat* 
tie  was  the  subject  of  their  conversation,  and  especially 
bulls,  of  whom  they  spoke  tenderly,  almost  as  if  there 


154  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

were  some  relationship  between  them.  The  other  breed- 
ers listened  with  deference  to  the  Marquis's  opinions,  on 
account  of  the  advantage  given  him  by  his  large  for- 
tune. The  simple  "aficionados"  who  never  left  the  town 
admired  his  skill  in  producing  fierce  animals.  What  this 
man  knew !  .  .  .  He  himself,  as  he  spoke  of  the  extreme 
care  required  by  the  bulls,  seemed  quite  convinced  of 
the  importance  of  his  occupation.  Out  of  ten  calves,  at 
least  eight  or  nine  were  fit  only  for  the  butcher,  after 
they  had  been  tried  to  judge  of  their  fierceness.  Only 
one  or  two  who  had  shown  themselves  brave  and  ready 
to  charge  against  the  iron  of  the  garrocha  were  judged 
fit  to  pass  as  fighting  animals ;  thenceforward  these  lived 
apart,  with  every  sort  of  care.    And  what  care ! 

*'A  breeding  establishment  of  wild  bulls  ought  not  to 
be  a  business,"  said  the  Marquis.  "It  is  an  expensive 
luxury.  It  is  true  we  are  paid  four  or  five  times  as 
much  for  a  fighting  bull  as  for  the  others,  but  then  see 
what  it  costs  to  rear!" 

They  must  be  watched  constantly,  their  food  and  water 
considered,  moved  from  one  place  to  another,  accord- 
ing to  variations  of  temperature,  in  fact  every  bull  costs 
more  than  the  maintenance  of  a  family,  and  when  at  last 
they  were  brought  to  the  highest  pitch,  they  had  still  to 
be  carefully  watched  up  to  the  last  moment,  in  order 
that  they  should  not  disgrace  themselves  in  the  circus, 
but  be  fit  to  do  honour  to  the  badge  of  the  herd  which 
hung  round  their  necks. 

In  certain  Plazas  the  Marquis  had  even  fought  with 
the  managers  and  the  authorities,  refusing  to  hand  over 
his  animals,  because  a  band  was  stationed  just  over  the 
bulls'  entrance.  The  noise  of  the  instruments  bewildered 
the  noble  animals,  robbing  them  of  their  bravery  and 
their  calmness  as  they  entered  the  Plaza. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  155 

"They  are  just  like  us/'  said  he  tenderly,  "they  only 
want  speech.  How  can  I  say  like  us?  Many  are  worth 
more  than  any  of  us." 

And  he  spoke  of  Lobito/  the  old  head  of  the  herd, 
swearing  he  would  not  sell  him  if  he  were  offered  all 
Seville,  with  the  Giralda  thrown  in.  As  soon  as  the 
Marquis,  galloping  across  the  vast  plains,  came  in  sight 
of  the  herd  to  which  this  treasure  belonged,  he  would 
instantly  respond  to  the  call  of  "Lobito."  .  .  .  And  leav- 
ing his  companions  would  come  to  meet  the  Marquis, 
rubbing  his  muzzle  against  the  rider's  boots,  and  this 
although  he  was  an  immensely  powerful  animal  and  the 
terror  of  the  rest  of  the  herd.  Then  the  breeder  would 
dismount,  and  search  in  his  saddle  bags  for  a  piece  of 
chocolate  to  give  to  Lobito,  who  would  gratefully  shake 
his  head,  armed  with  those  immense  horns.  Then  with 
one  arm  round  the  bull's  neck  the  Marquis  would  calmly 
walk  in  among  the  herd  of  bulls,  made  restless  and  fierce 
by  a  man's  presence.  There  was  no  danger.  Lobito 
walked  like  a  dog,  covering  his  master  with  his  body, 
looking  all  around  him,  and  imposing  respect  on  his 
companions  with  his  fiery  eyes.  If  any  one,  more  ven- 
turesome than  his  comrades,  approached  to  sniff  the  in- 
truder they  met  with  Lobito's  threatening  horns.  If  sev- 
eral of  them  with  heavy  playfulness  joined  to  bar  his 
way,  Lobito  would  stretch  out  his  armed  head  and  force 
them  to  make  way. 

When  the  Marquis  related  the  great  deeds  of  some  of 
the  animals  reared  on  his  pastures  his  white  whiskers 
and  his  shaven  lips  would  tremble  with  emotion. 

"A  bull !  .  .  .  He  is  the  noblest  animal  in  the  world. 
If  only  men  were  more  like  him  things  would  go  on  bet- 
ter in  the  world.  There  you  have  a  portrait  of  poor 
Coronel.    Do  any  of  you  remember  that  jewel?" 

*  Little  wolf. 


156  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

As  he  spoke  he  pointed  to  a  large  photograph  finely 
framed,  representing  himself,  much  younger,  in  peasant 
dress,  surrounded  by  little  girls  in  white,  who  seemed  to 
be  seated  in  the  midst  of  a  meadow,  on  a  black  mound, 
at  one  end  of  which  appeared  a  pair  of  horns.  This  dark 
and  shapeless  bank  was  Coronel.  Of  enormous  size  and 
very  fierce  to  his  comrades  in  the  herd,  this  beast  showed 
the  most  affectionate  gentleness  to  his  master  and  his 
family.  He  was  like  one  of  those  mastiffs  who  are  so 
fierce  to  strangers,  but  who  let  the  children  of  the  fam- 
ily pull  their  ears  and  tail,  and  receive  all  their  teazing 
with  grunts  of  pleasure.  The  little  girls  were  the  Mar- 
quis's daughters ;  the  beast  would  sniff  at  their  little  white 
dresses,  while  they  half  frightened  at  first,  clung  to  their 
father's  legs,  but  would  suddenly  with  childish  confi- 
dence rub  his  muzzle.  "Lie  down,  Coronel,"  and  Coronel 
would  lie  down  with  his  feet  doubled  beneath  him,  while 
the  children  sat  on  his  broad  back  heaving  with  his 
heavy  breathing. 

One  day,  after  much  hesitation,  the  Marquis  sold  him 
to  the  Plaza  in  Pampeluna,  and  went  himself  to  assist 
at  the  corrida.  De  Moraima  was  deeply  moved  and  his 
eyes  were  dim  as  he  recalled  the  occurence.  Never  in 
his  life  had  he  seen  a  bull  like  that  one.  He  rushed 
gallantly  into  the  arena,  though  rather  dazed  at  first  by 
the  sudden  light  after  the  darkness  of  his  stall  and  the 
roars  of  thousands  of  people.  But  directly  a  picador 
pricked  him,  he  seemed  to  fill  the  whole  Plaza  with  his 
magnificent  onslaughts. 

Soon,  there  were  neither  men  nor  horses  nor  anything 
else  left!  In  a  moment  all  the  horses  were  down  and 
their  riders  tossed  in  the  air.  The  peons  ran,  and  the 
arena  was  in  disarray,  as  if  a  branding^  had  been  going 

*  Branding  of  young  bulls  on  the  thighs  with  a  hot  iron.  An 
operation  which  is  not  conducted  without  some  commotion. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  157 

on.  The  audience  clamoured  for  more  horses,  while 
Coronel  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  Plaza  waiting  to  turn 
and  rend  anyone  who  came  out  against  him.  The  slight- 
est invitation  was  sufficient  to  make  him  attack,  no  one 
had  ever  seen  anything  like  him  for  nobility  and  power, 
rushing  in  to  his  charge  with  a  grandeur  and  a  dash 
which  drove  the  populace  mad.  When  the  death  signal 
sounded,  he  had  fourteen  wounds  in  him  and  a  com- 
plete set  of  banderillas,  yet  he  was  as  fresh  and  as  brave 
as  if  he  had  never  left  his  pasture.    Then  .  .  . 

When  the  breeder  reached  this  point  he  always  stopped 
to  steady  his  shaking  voice. 

Then  .  .  .  the  Marquis  de  Moraima,  who  was  in  a  box, 
found  himself,  he  knew  not  how,  behind  the  barrier, 
among  the  excited  servants  of  the  Plaza  and  close  to  the 
matador,  who  was  slowly  rolling  up  his  muleta,  as 
though  he  wished  to  put  off  the  moment  when  he  should 
have  to  meet  so  formidable  an  enemy.  "Coronel!"  .  .  . 
shouted  the  Marquis,  throwing  his  body  half  over  the 
barrier  and  striking  the  woodwork  with  his  hands. 

The  animal  did  not  move,  but  he  raised  his  head,  as 
though  these  shouts  reminded  him  of  the  pastures  he 
might  never  see  again.  ''Coronel!"  .  .  .  Till,  turning 
his  head  he  saw  a  man  leaning  over  the  barrier  calling 
him,  and  rushed  straight  to  attack  him.  But  he  stopped 
half  way  in  his  wild  rush,  then  came  on  slowly  till  he 
rubbed  his  horns  against  the  arms  stretched  out  to  him. 
He  came  with  his  chest  splashed  with  the  streams  of 
blood  from  the  darts  fixed  in  his  neck,  and  his  skin  torn 
by  the  wounds  which  showed  the  blue  muscles  be- 
neath .  .  .  "Coronel !  My  son !  .  .  ."  And  the  bull,  as 
if  he  understood  these  tender  words,  raised  his  muzzle 
and  rubbed  the  breeder's  white  whiskers.  "Why  have 
you  brought  me  here?"  his  fierce  blood-shot  eyes  seemed 


158  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

to  say;  and  the  Marquis,  no  longer  knowing  what  he 
did,  kissed  the  beast's  nostrils,  wet  with  his  furious 
snorting,  again  and  again. 

"Do  not  kill  him!"  some  kind  soul  shouted  from  the 
seats,  and  as  though  these  words  reflected  the  thoughts 
of  the  whole  audience,  an  explosion  of  voices  shook  the 
Plaza,  and  thousands  of  handkerchiefs  waved  like  white 
doves.  "Do  not  kill  him!'*  And  at  that  moment  the 
crowd,  seized  with  a  vague  tenderness,  despised  their 
own  amusement,  abhorred  the  torero  in  his  showy  dress 
with  his  useless  heroism,  and  admired  the  bravery  of  the 
brute,  to  whom  they  felt  themselves  inferior;  and  rec- 
ognised that  among  those  thousands  of  reasoning  be- 
ings, nobility  and  affection  were  alone  represented  by 
this  poor  animal. 

*'I  took  him  away,"  said  the  Marquis,  almost  sobbing. 
**I  returned  the  manager  his  two  thousand  pesetas.  I 
would  have  given  him  my  whole  fortune.  After  a  month 
on  the  pasture  there  was  not  the  vestige  of  a  scar  on  his 
neck.  ...  I  should  have  wished  him  to  die  of  old  age, 
but  it  is  not  always  the  good  who  prosper  in  this  world. 
A  sulky  bull,  who  would  not  have  dared  to  look  him  in 
the  face,  killed  him  treacherously  with  a  blow  of  his 
horn." 

The  Marquis  and  his  fellow-breeders  soon  forgot  their 
tender  sympathy  for  the  animals  in  the  pride  they  felt  at 
their  fierceness.  You  should  have  seen  the  contempt 
with  which  they  spoke  of  the  enemies  of  bull-fighting, 
and  of  those  who  clamoured  against  this  art  in  the  name 
of  the  protection  of  animals. 

"Follies  of  foreigners,"  "Ignorant  errors,"  which  con- 
found a  butcher's  ox  with  a  fighting  bull !  The  Spanish 
bull  is  a  wild  animal :  the  bravest  wild  beast  in  the  world. 
And  he  recalled  several  fights  between  bulls  and  felines, 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  159 

which  had  always  ended  triumphantly  for  the  national 
beast. 

The  Marquis  laughed  as  he  remembered  another  of 
his  animals.  A  fight  was  arranged  in  a  certain  Plaza 
between  a  bull,  and  a  lion  and  a  tiger  belonging  to  a 
celebrated  tamer.  The  breeder  sent  Barrabas,  a  vicious 
animal,  which  had  to  be  kept  apart  at  the  farm,  because 
he  had  fought  with  and  killed  several  of  his  companions. 

*T  saw  this  myself,"  said  the  Marquis.  "There  was 
a  huge  iron  cage  in  the  middle  of  the  circus  and  inside 
it  was  Barrabas.  They  loosed  the  lion  first,  and  this 
accursed  feline,  taking  advantage  of  a  bull  being  unsus- 
picious, sprung  upon  his  hind  quarters  and  began  to 
tear  him  with  teeth  and  claws.  Barrabas  bounded  fu- 
riously in  order  to  dislodge  him  and  get  him  within  reach 
of  the  horns,  which  are  his  defence.  At  last  he  suc- 
ceeded in  throwing  the  lion  in  front  of  him  and  then  .  .  . 
caballeros !  it  was  just  like  a  game  of  ball !  .  .  .  He 
tossed  him  from  one  horn  to  another,  shaking  him  like 
a  marionette,  till  at  last,  as  if  he  despised  him,  he  threw 
him  on  one  side,  and  there  lay  the  so-called  king  of  ani- 
mals, rolled  into  a  ball,  and  lying  like  a  cat  who  has 
just  been  beaten  .  .  .  The  second  affair  was  much 
shorter.  As  soon  as  the  tiger  appeared  Barrabas  caught 
him,  tossed  him  in  the  air,  and  after  shaking  him  well, 
threw  him  into  the  comer  like  the  other.  .  .  .  Then  Bar- 
rabas, being  an  evil-minded  beast,  trotted  up  and  down, 
with  every  indecent  display  of  triumph  over  his  fallen 
foes." 

These  anecdotes  always  drew  shouts  of  laughter  from 
the  "Forty-Five."  The  Spanish  bull!  .  .  .  The  finest 
wild  animal !  .  .  .  It  seemed  as  if  the  arrogant  bravery 
of  the  national  animal  established  the  superiority  of  the 
country  and  the  race  over  all  others. 

When  Gallardo  began  to  frequent  the  club,  a  fresh 


i6o  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

topic  of  conversation  had  arisen  to  interrupt  the  endless 
talk  of  bulls  and  field  work. 

The  "Forty-Five,"  like  every  one  else  in  Seville,  were 
talking  of  the  exploits  of  Plumitas,  a  brigand,  celebrated 
for  his  audacity,  to  whom  the  useless  efforts  of  his  pur- 
suers daily  gave  fresh  fame.  The  papers  spoke  of  his 
kindly  disposition,  as  if  he  were  a  national  personage. 
The  Government,  who  were  questioned  in  the  Cortes, 
promised  a  speedy  capture,  which  was  never  realized. 
The  civil  guard  were  concentrated,  and  a  perfect  army 
was  mobilized  to  follow  and  catch  him,  while  Plumitas, 
always  alone,  with  no  other  help  but  his  carbine  and  his 
horse,  slipped  through  those  who  were  following  him 
like  a  ghost ;  he  would  turn  on  them,  when  they  were  few 
in  numbers,  and  stretch  many  lifeless,  but  he  was  rev- 
erenced and  helped  by  all  the  poor  peasantry,  wretched 
slaves  of  the  enormous  landed  interest,  who  looked  upon 
the  bandit  as  the  avenger  of  the  starving,  a  just  but  cruel 
justiciary,  after  the  fashion  of  the  ancient  armour-clad 
knights  errant.  He  exacted  money  from  the  rich,  and 
then  with  the  manner  of  an  actor  before  an  immense 
audience,  he  would  assist  some  poor  old  woman,  or  some 
labourer  with  a  large  family.  These  generosities  were 
greatly  exaggerated  by  the  gossip  of  the  rural  popula- 
tion, who  always  had  the  name  of  Plumitas  on  their  lips, 
but  who  became  both  blind  and  dumb  when  any  en- 
quiries were  made  by  the  Government  soldiers. 

He  went  from  one  province  to  another  like  one  per- 
fectly acquainted  with  the  country,  and  the  landed  pro- 
prietors of  Seville  and  Cordova  contributed  largely  to 
his  support  .  .  .  Whole  weeks  passed  and  nothing  would 
be  heard  of  him,  then  suddenly  he  would  appear  in  some 
farm  or  village,  utterly  regardless  of  danger. 

They  had  direct  news  of  him  in  the  "Forty-Five,"  pre- 
cisely as  if  he  had  been  a  matador. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  i6i 

"Plumitas  was  at  my  farm  the  day  before  yesterday," 
a  rich  farmer  would  say.  "The  overseer  gave  him  thirty, 
duros,  and  he  went  away  after  breakfasting." 

They  paid  this  contribution  contentedly,  and  gave  no 
information  except  to  friends.  Giving  information 
meant  making  declarations,  and  every  sort  of  annoy- 
ance. And  for  what  ?  The  civil  guard  sought  him  with- 
out success,  and  had  he  become  incensed  against  the 
informers,  their  goods  and  property  would  have  been 
at  his  mercy,  without  any  protection  whatever  from  his 
vengeance. 

The  Marquis  spoke  of  Plumitas  and  his  exploits  with- 
out being  in  the  least  scandalized  by  them,  and  treated 
them  as  though  they  were  a  natural  and  inevitable  ca- 
lamity. 

"They  are  poor  fellows  who  have  had  some  misfor- 
tune, and  have  taken  to  the  road.  My  father  (who 
rests  in  peace)  knew  the  famous  Jose  Maria,  and  had 
twice  breakfasted  with  him.  I  have  run  against  several 
of  lesser  fame,  who  went  about  the  neighbourhood  do- 
ing evil  deeds.  They  are  just  the  same  as  bulls,  noble 
and  simple  creatures.  They  only  attack  when  goaded, 
and  their  evil  deeds  increase  with  punishment." 

He  had  given  orders  to  all  the  overseers  at  his  farms 
and  in  all  his  shepherds'  hovels  to  give  Plumitas  what- 
ever he  asked  for;  consequently,  as  the  overseers  and 
cowherds  related,  the  bandit,  with  the  respect  of  a  coun- 
try peasant  for  a  kind  and  generous  master,  spoke  of 
him  with  the  greatest  gratitude,  offering  to  kill  anyone 
who  offended  the  "Zeno  Marque"  in  the  very  slightest 
degree.  Poor  fellow!  For  the  wretched  little  sums 
which  he  demanded,  when  he  made  his  appearance, 
wearied  and  starving,  it  was  not  worth  while  drawing 
down  on  oneself  his  anger  and  revenge. 

The  breeder,  who  was  constantly  galloping  alone  over 


162  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

the  plains  where  his  bulls  grazed,  suspected  that  he  had 
several  times  come  across  Plumltas.  He  was  probably 
one  of  those  poor-looking  horsemen  whom  he  met  in  the 
solitary  plains  without  so  much  as  a  village  on  the  hori- 
zon, who  would  raise  his  hand  to  his  greasy  sombrero, 
and  say  with  respectful  civility: 

"Go  with  God,  Zeno  Marque." 

The  lord  of  Moraima,  when  he  spoke  of  Plumitas, 
looked  often  at  Gallardo,  who  declaimed  with  the  vehe- 
mence of  a  novice,  against  the  authorities  for  being  un- 
able to  protect  property. 

"Some  fine  day  he  will  turn  up  at  La  Rincona,  my 
lad,"  said  the  Marquis,  with  his  grave  Andalusian  drawl. 

"Curse  him !  .  .  .  But  that  would  not  please  me,  Zeno 
Marque!  God  alive!  Is  it  for  this  I  pay  such  heavy 
taxes  ?" 

No,  indeed.  It  would  not  please  him  to  run  against 
the  bandit  during  his  excursions  at  La  Rinconada.  He 
was  a  brave  man  killing  bulls,  and  in  a  Plaza  regardless 
of  his  own  life ;  but  this  profession  of  killing  men  in^ 
spired  him  with  all  the  uneasiness  of  the  unknown. 

His  family  were  at  the  farm.  Senora  Angustias  en- 
joyed a  country  life,  after  the  miseries  of  an  existence 
spent  in  town  hovels.  Carmen  also  enjoyed  it,  and  the 
saddler's  children  required  a  change,  so  Gallardo  had 
sent  his  family  to  La  Rincona,  promising  soon  to  join 
them.  He,  however,  postponed  the  journey  by  every 
sort  of  pretext,  living  a  bachelor's  life  (with  no  other 
companion  than  Garabato),  which  left  him  complete  lib- 
erty as  to  his  relations  with  Dona  Sol. 

He  thought  this  the  happiest  time  of  his  life,  and  he 
often  quite  forgot  La  Rinconada  and  its  inhabitants. 

He  and  Dona  Sol  rode  together,  mounted  on  spirited 
horses,  dressed  much  the  same  as  on  the  day  when  they 
first  met,  generally  alone,  but  sometimes  with  Don  Jose, 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  163 

whose  presence  was  a  sop  to  people's  scandalized  feel- 
ings. They  would  go  to  see  bulls  in  the  pastures  round 
Seville,  or  to  try  calves  at  the  Marquis's  dairies,  and 
J!)ona  Sol,  always  eager  for  danger,  was  delighted  when, 
as  he  felt  the  prick  of  the  garrocha,  a  young  bull  would 
turn  and  attack  her,  and  Gallardo  had  to  come  to  her 
assistance. 

At  other  times  they  would  go  to  the  station  of  Em- 
palme,  if  a  boxing  of  bulls  was  announced  for  the  dif- 
ferent Plazas  which  were  giving  special  corridas  at  the 
end  of  the  winter. 

Dona  Sol  examined  this  place,  which  was  the  most 
important  centre  of  exportation  of  the  taurine  industry, 
with  great  interest.  There  were  large  enclosures  along- 
side the  railway  siding,  and  dozens  of  huge  boxes  on 
wheels  with  movable  doors.  The  bulls  who  were  to  be 
entrained,  arrived,  galloping  along  a  dusty  road  edged 
with  barbed  wire.  Many  came  from  distant  provinces, 
but  on  getting  close  to  Empalme  they  were  sent  on  with 
a  rush,  in  order  to  g^t  them  into  the  enclosures  with 
greater  ease. 

In  front  galloped  the  overseers  and  shepherds  with 
their  lances  on  their  shoulders,  and  behind  them  the 
prudent  "cabestros"  covering  the  men  with  their  huge 
horns.  After  these  came  the  fighting  bulls,  well  rounded 
up  by  tame  bulls  who  prevented  them  straying  from  the 
road,  and  followed  by  strong  cowherds  ready  to  sling  a 
stone  at  any  wandering  pair  of  horns. 

Arrived  at  the  enclosures  the  foremost  riders  drew  to 
either  side,  leaving  the  gateway  open,  and  the  whole 
herd,  an  avalanche  of  dust,  pawings,  snortings  and  bells, 
rushed  in  like  an  overwhelming  torrent  and  the  gate  was 
immediately  closed  after  the  last  animal. 

They  tore  through  the  first  enclosure  without  noticing 
that  they  were  trapped,  the  "cabestros,"  taught  by  experi- 


i64  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ence  and  obedient  to  the  shepherds,  stood  aside  to  let 
them  pass  into  the  second,  where  the  herd  only  stopped 
on  finding  a  blank  wall  before  them. 

Now  the  boxing  began.  One  by  one  they  were  driven, 
by  shouts,  waving  cloths,  and  blows  from  garrochas,  into 
a  narrow  lane,  at  the  end  of  which  stood  the  travelling 
box,  with  both  its  side  doors  lowered.  It  looked  like 
a  small  tunnel,  through  which  the  brutes  could  see  a  field 
beyond,  with  animals  quietly  grazing.  The  suspicious 
bulls  guessed  some  danger  in  this  small  tunnel,  and  had 
to  be  driven  on  by  clappings  and  whistlings  and  pricks. 
Finally  they  would  make  a  dash  for  the  quiet  pasture 
beyond,  making  the  sloping  platform  leading  to  the  box 
shake  as  they  rushed  up  it,  but  as  soon  as  they  had 
mounted  this,  the  door  in  front  of  them  was  suddenly 
closed,  and  then  equally  quickly  the  one  behind,  and  the 
bull  was  caught  in  a  cage  where  he  could  only  just  stand 
up  or  lie  down  comfortably.  The  box  was  then  wheeled 
into  the  railway,  and  another  one  took  its  place,  till  all 
the  herd  were  successfully  entrained. 

When  the  first  intoxicaton  of  Gallardo's  good  fortune 
had  passed  off,  he  looked  at  Doiia  Sol  with  the  utmost 
astonishment,  wondering  in  the  hours  of  their  greatest 
intimacy  if  all  great  ladies  were  like  this  one.  The 
caprices  and  fickleness  of  her  character  bewildered  him. 
He  had  never  dared  to  address  her  as  "tu,"  indeed  she 
had  never  invited  him  to  such  a  familarity,  and  on  the 
one  occasion  when  with  slow  and  hesitating  tongue  he 
had  attempted  it,  he  had  seen  in  her  golden  eyes  such  a 
gleam  of  anger  and  surprise,  that  he  had  drawn  back 
ashamed,  and  had  returned  to  the  former  mode  of 
speech. 

She,  on  the  other  hand,  spoke  to  him  as  "tu,"  but  only 
in  the  hours  of  privacy.  If  she  had  to  write  to  him 
asking  him  not  to  come,  or  saying  she  was  going  out 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  165 

with  her  relations,  she  always  used  the  ceremonious 
"uste"  and  there  were  no  expressions  of  affection,  only 
the  cold  courtesies  that  might  be  written  to  a  friend  of 
an  inferior  class. 

"Oh!  that  gachi,"  murmured  Gallardo,  disheartened; 
"it  seems  as  if  she  had  always  lived  with  rascals  who 
showed  her  letters  to  every  one.  One  would  think  she 
cannot  believe  me  to  be  a  gentleman  because  I  am  a 
matador." 

Some  of  her  eccentricities  left  the  torero  frowning 
and  sad.  Sometimes  on  going  to  the  house  one  of  the 
magnificent  servants  would  coldly  bar  his  way.  "The 
Seriora  was  not  at  home,"  or  "The  Seiiora  had  gone  out," 
and  he  knew  that  it  was  a  lie,  feeling  the  presence  of 
Doiia  Sol  a  short  distance  from  him,  the  other  side  of  the 
curtained  doors. 

"The  fuel  is  spent!"  said  the  espada  to  himself,  "I 
will  not  return.    That  gachi  shall  not  laugh  at  me." 

But  when  he  did  return,  she  received  him  with  open 
arms,  clasping  him  close  in  her  firm  white  hands,  with 
her  eyes  wide  open  and  vague,  and  a  strange  light  in 
them  which  seemed  to  speak  of  mental  derangement. 

"Why  do  you  perfume  yourself,"  she  said,  as  if  she 
perceived  the  most  unpleasant  smells.  "It  is  unworthy 
of  you.  I  should  like  you  to  smell  of  bulls,  of  horses. 
Those  are  fine  scents !  Don't  you  love  them  ?  Say  yes, 
Juanm,  my  animal." 

One  night  in  the  soft  twilight  of  Dona  Sol's  bedroom, 
Gallardo  felt  something  very  like  fear,  hearing  her 
speak,  and  watching  her  eyes. 

"I  should  like  to  run  on  all  fours.  I  should  like  to  be 
a  bull,  and  that  you  should  staod  before  me  rapier  in 
hand.  Fine  gorings  I  would  giv**  you!  Here  .  .  .  and 
here !" 

And  with  her  clenched  fist^  tc  which  her  excitement 


i66  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

gave  fresh  strength,  she  planted  several  blows  on  the 
matador's  chest  only  covered  by  his  thin  silk  vest.  Gal- 
lardo  drew  back,  not  wishing  to  admit  that  a  woman 
could  possibly  hurt  him. 

"No,  not  a  bull.  I  should  like  to  be  a  dog  ...  a  shep- 
herd's dog  .  .  .  one  of  those  with  long  fangs,  to  come  out 
and  bark  at  you.  Do  you  see  that  fine  fellow  who  kills 
bulls,  and  who  the  public  say  is  so  brave?  Well,  I  shall 
bite  him.    I  shall  bite  him  like  this !    Aaaam !" 

And  with  hysterical  delight  she  fixed  her  teeth  in  the 
matador's  arm,  punishing  his  swelling  biceps.  Exas- 
perated by  the  pain  the  matador  swore  a  big  oath,  shak- 
ing the  beautiful  half-dressed  woman  from  him,  whose 
snake-like  golden  hair  stood  up  round  her  head  like  that 
of  a  drunken  bacchante. 

Dona  Sol  seemed  suddenly  to  awake, 

"Poor  fellow !  I  have  hurt  you.  And  it  was  I !  .  .  .  I 
who  am  sometimes  mad !  Let  me  kiss  the  bite  to  cure  it. 
Let  me  kiss  all  your  glorious  scars.  My  poor  little  brute, 
it  made  you  cry  out !" 

And  the  beautiful  fury  suddenly  became  tender  and 
gentle,  purring  round  the  torero  like  a  kitten. 

One  evening,  finding  her  inclined  to  be  confidential, 
and  feeling  some  curiosity  as  to  her  past,  he  questioned 
her  as  to  the  kings  and  other  great  personages,  whom  re- 
port said  had  crossed  her  path. 

With  a  cold  stare  in  her  eyes  she  replied  to  his  curi- 
osity : 

"What  does  it  matter  to  you  ?  Are  you  by  any  chance 
jealous?  .  .  .    And  if  it  were  true  .  .  .  what  then?" 

She  remained  silent  a  long  while,  with  a  strange  look 
in  her  eyes,  the  look  of  madness,  which  was  always  ac- 
companied by  extravagant  thoughts. 

"You  must  have  struck  many  women,"  she  said,  look- 
ing at  him  curiouslv;  "do  not  denv  it,  it  interests  me 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  167 

greatly!  No,  not  your  wife,  I  know  she  is  very  good, 
but  all  those  that  toreros  mix  with;  women  who  love 
better  when  they  are  beaten.  No?  Say  truly,  have  you 
never  struck  any  one  ?" 

Gallardo  protested  with  the  dignity  of  a  brave  man, 
incapable  of  hurting  those  weaker  than  himself.  Dona 
Sol  showed  a  certain  disbelief  in  his  asseverations. 

"One  day  you  will  have  to  beat  me  ...  I  should  like 
to  know  what  it  is"  .  .  .  she  said  resolutely  .  .  . 

But  her  expression  darkened,  she  frowned,  and  a  steely 
gleam  lit  up  the  golden  light  in  her  eyes. 

"No,  my  brute,  pay  no  attention  to  me,  and  do  not  at- 
tempt it.    You  would  be  the  loser." 

The  advice  was  just,  and  Gallardo  had  cause  to  rC' 
member  it.  One  day,  in  a  moment  of  intimacy,  a  some* 
what  rough  caress  from  his  fighting  hand  was  enough  to 
rouse  this  woman's  fury,  who  was  attracted  by  the  man» 
and  yet  hated  him  at  the  same  time. 

"Take  that."  And  with  a  fist  as  hard  as  a  club  she 
gave  him  a  blow  on  the  jaw  from  below  upwards  with 
a  precision,  which  seemed  inspired  by  a  knowledge  of 
the  rules  of  boxing. 

Gallardo  remained  bewildered  by  pain  and  shame, 
while  the  lady,  as  if  she  suddenly  realized  her  unpro- 
voked aggression,  endeavoured  to  justify  herself  with 
cold  hostility. 

"It  is  to  teach  you  better.  I  know  what  you  toreros 
are.  If  I  were  to  let  myself  be  trampled  on  once,  for 
ever  after  you  would  shake  me  like  a  gipsy  of  Triana.  I 
am  glad  I  did  it.    You  must  keep  your  distance." 

One  evening  in  early  spring,  they  were  returning  from 
a  trial  of  calves  at  one  of  the  farms  belonging  to  the 
Marquis,  who  with  some  other  friends  was  riding  home 
along  the  road. 

Dona  Sol,  followed  by  the  espada,  turned  her  horse 


i68  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

into  the  fields,  delighting  in  the  soft  sward  under  their 
hoofs,  which  at  this  season  was  carpeted  with  spring 
flowers. 

The  setting  sun  dyed  everything  with  crimson,  length- 
ening indefinitely  the  shadows  of  the  riders  with  their 
long  lances  over  their  shoulders,  and  the  broad  river  half 
hidden  among  the  vegetation  rolled  along  one  side  of 
the  meadows. 

Dona  Sol  looked  at  Gallardo  with  imperious  eyes. 

"Put  your  arm  round  my  waist." 

The  espada  obeyed,  and  so  they  rode  on,  their  horses 
close  together,  the  woman  watching  their  shadows  thrown 
as  one  by  the  setting  sun  on  the  grass. 

"It  seems  as  though  we  were  living  in  another  world," 
she  murmured, — "a  legendary  world,  something  like  one 
sees  on  the  tapestries,  the  loving  knight  and  the  amazon 
travelling  together,  their  lances  on  their  shoulders  in 
search  of  adventures  and  dangers.  But  you  do  not  un- 
derstand all  this — dunce  of  my  heart.  Answer  truly,  you 
do  not  understand  me  ?" 

The  torero  smiled,  showing  his  beautiful  strong  teeth 
of  luminous  whiteness.  She,  as  if  attracted  by  his  rough 
ignorance,  drew  closer  to  him,  laying  her  head  on  his 
shoulder,  shivering  as  she  felt  his  breath  on  the  back  of 
her  neck. 

They  rode  on  in  silence.  Dona  Sol  seemed  to  have 
fallen  asleep  on  the  torero's  shoulder.  Suddenly  her  eyes 
opened,  flashing  with  that  strange  light  which  was  always 
the  precursor  of  the  most  extraordinary  questions. 

"Say!   Have  you  never  killed  a  man?" 

Gallardo  started,  and  in  his  astonishment  disengaged 
himself  from  Dona  Sol.  Who!  He?  .  .  .  Never.  He 
had  been  a  good  fellow  who  had  followed  his  profession 
without  doing  harm  to  anyone.  He  had  scarcely  even 
fought  with  his  companions  at  the  "capeas,"  when  they 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  169 

held  on  to  the  pence  because  they  were  the  strongest. 
He  had  exchanged  a  few  blows  with  others  of  his  pro- 
fession, or  fought  a  round  in  a  cafe,  but  the  Hfe  of  a 
man  inspired  him  with  deep  respect.  Bulls  were  an- 
other aifair. 

**So  that  you  have  never  felt  the  slightest  wish  to  kill 
a  man  ?  .  .  .    And  I  who  thought  that  toreros  .  .  ." 

The  sun  had  set,  and  the  landscape,  which  before  had 
seemed  so  brilliant,  now  looked  dull  and  grey;  even  the 
river  had  disappeared,  and  Dona  Sol  spurred  on  her 
horse  without  saying  another  word,  or  even  appearing  to 
notice  if  the  espada  were  following  her. 

Before  the  Holy  Week  holidays  Gallardo's  family  re- 
turned to  Seville.  The  espada  was  to  fight  at  the  Easter 
corrida.  It  was  the  first  time  he  would  kill  in  Dana  Sol's 
presence  since  he  had  come  to  know  her,  and  it  made 
him  doubtful  of  his  powers. 

Besides,  he  never  could  fight  in  Seville  without  a  cer- 
tain disquietude.  He  could  accept  an  unlucky  mischance 
in  any  other  Plaza  in  Spain,  thinking  he  would  probably 
not  return  there  for  some  time.  But  in  his  own  native 
town,  where  his  greatest  enemies  lived !  .  .  . 

"We  must  see  you  distinguish  yourself,"  said  Don 
Jose.  "Think  of  those  who  will  be  watching  you.  I 
expect  you  to  remain  the  first  man  in  the  world." 

On  the  Saturday  of  "Gloria,"^  during  the  small  hoars 
of  the  night,  the  enclosing  of  the  cattle  for  the  following 
day's  corrida  was  to  take  place,  and  Dona  Sol  wished  to 
assist  as  picqeur  at  the  operation,  which  presented  the 
further  delight  of  taking  place  in  the  dark.  The  bulls 
had  to  be  brought  from  the  pastures  of  Tablada  to  the 
enclosures  at  the  Plaza. 

In  spite  of  Gallardo's  wish  to  accompany  Dona  Sol 

'Holy  Saturday,  so  called  from  a  religious  ceremony  in  the 
Cathedral  during  which  the  "Gloria"  is  sung. 


170  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

he  was  unable  to  do  so ;  his  manager  opposed  it,  alleging 
the  necessity  of  his  keeping  himself  fresh  and  vigorous 
for  the  following  afternoon.  At  midnight  the  road  lead- 
ing from  the  pastures  to  the  Plaza  was  as  lively  as  a  fair. 
In  the  country  villas  the  windows  were  lighted  up,  and 
shadows  passed  before  them,  dancing  to  the  sound  of 
pianos.  In  the  little  inns,  whose  open  doors  threw  broad 
streaks  of  light  across  the  road,  the  tinkling  of  guitars, 
the  clinking  of  glasses,  and  shouts  and  laughter  let  it  be 
known  that  wine  was  circulating  freely. 

About  one  in  the  morning  a  rider  passed  along  the 
road  at  a  slow  trot.  He  was  "el  aviso,"  ^  a  rough  shep- 
herd, who  stopped  before  the  taverns  and  gay  country 
houses,  warning  them  that  the  herd  would  pass  in  less 
than  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  so  that  lights  might  be  extin- 
guished and  everything  be  quiet. 

This  order,  given  in  the  name  of  the  national  sport, 
was  obeyed  with  far  more  alacrity  than  any  one  given 
by  the  authorities.  The  houses  remained  in  darkness,  the 
whiteness  of  their  walls  confounded  with  the  shadowy 
mass  of  trees.  The  invisible  people,  assembled  behind 
the  barred  and  spiked  window  gratings,  were  silent  in  the 
expectation  of  something  extraordinary.  In  the  walks 
alongside  the  river  the  gas  lamps  were  extinguished  one 
by  one  as  the  shepherd  advanced  shouting  the  coming 
of  the  herd. 

Everything  was  absolutely  silent.  Above  the  trees  the 
stars  were  shining,  and  below  on  the  ground  only  the 
slightest  rustle;  the  faintest  murmur  betrayed  in  the 
darkness  the  presence  of  crowds  of  people.  The  wait 
seemed  very  long,  till  at  last  in  the  far  distance,  the  faint 
sound  of  deep  bells  was  heard.  "They  are  coming !  They 
will  soon  be  here !"  .  .  . 

The  clangour  of  the  bells  became  louder  and  at  last 
*  The  warner. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  171 

deafening,  accompanied  by  a  confused  galloping  which 
shook  the  ground  First  of  all  passed  several  riders, 
with  lances  over  their  shoulders,  who  appeared  gigantic 
in  the  darkness,  their  horses  at  full  stretch.  These  were 
the  shepherds.  Then  came  a  group  of  amateur  garro- 
chists,  among  whom  galloped  Dofia  Sol,  delighted  at  this 
mad  ride  through  the  darkness,  in  which  the  single  false 
step  of  a  horse,  or  a  fall,  meant  certain  death  from 
trampling  beneath  the  hard  hoofs  of  the  fierce  herd 
rushing  blindly  on  behind  in  their  furious  career. 

The  herd  bells  rang  wildly;  the  open  mouths  of  the 
spectators,  hidden  by  the  darkness,  swallowed  large  gulps 
of  dust,  and  the  furious  mob  of  cattle  rushed  by  like  3 
nightmare  of  shapeless  monsters  of  the  night,  heavy  but 
at  the  same  time  agile,  giving  horrible  snorts,  goring  at 
the  shadows  with  their  horns,  terrified  and  irritated  by 
the  shouts  of  the  young  shepherds  following  on  foot,  and 
by  the  galloping  of  the  riders  closing  the  cavalcade  who 
drove  them  on  with  their  pikes. 

The  transit  of  this  ponderous  and  noisy  troupe  only 
lasted  an  instant.  There  was  nothing  more  to  be 
seen  .  .  .  and  the  populace,  satisfied  by  this  fleeting  spec- 
tacle, came  out  of  their  hiding  places,  and  many  of  the 
enthusiasts  ran  after  the  herd,  hoping  to  see  their  en- 
trance into  the  enclosures. 

When  they  arrived  near  the  Plaza  the  foremost  riders 
drew  on  one  side,  making  way  for  the  animals,  who, 
from  the  impetus  of  their  rush,  and  their  habit  of  fol- 
lowing the  "cabestros,"  engaged  themselves  in  "la  man- 
ga," ^  a  narrow  lane  formed  of  palisades  leading  to  the 
Plaza. 

The  amateur  garrochists  congratulated  themselves  on 
the  good  management  of  the  enclosing.     The  herd  had 

*  The  sleeve. 


172  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

been  well  rounded  up  without  a  single  bull  being  able  to 
stray,  or  giving  work  to  picqeurs  or  peons.  They  were 
all  well-bred  animals,  the  best  from  the  Marquis'  breed- 
ing farms,  and  a  good  day  might  confidently  be  expected 
on  the  morrow.  In  this  hope  the  riders  and  peons  soon 
dispersed.  An  hour  afterwards  the  surroundings  of  the 
Plaza  were  completely  deserted,  and  the  fierce  brutes, 
safe  in  their  enclosures,  lay  down  to  enjoy  their  last 
sleep. 

On  the  following  morning  Juan  Gallardo  rose  early. 
He  had  slept  badly,  with  an  anxiety  that  peopled  his 
dreams  with  nightmares. 

Why  did  they  make  him  fight  in  Seville?  In  other 
towns  he  forgot  his  family  for  the  moment;  he  lived  as 
a  bachelor  in  a  room  in  an  hotel  completely  strange  to 
him,  that  contained  nothing  dear  to  him,  and  that  re- 
minded him  of  nothing.  But  here — to  put  on  his  fight- 
ing costume  in  his  own  bedroom,  where  everything  about 
on  the  table  reminded  him  of  Carmen,  to  go  out  and  face 
the  danger  from  the  house  that  he  himself  had  built, 
and  which  contained  all  that  was  dearest  to  him  in  life, 
disconcerted  him,  and  awoke  in  him  as  much  trepida- 
tion as  if  he  were  going  to  kill  his  first  bull.  Besides,  he 
was  afraid  of  his  fellow-townsmen,  with  whom  he  had 
to  live,  and  whose  opinion  was  more  important  to  him 
than  that  of  all  the  rest  of  Spain.  Ay!  and  that  terri- 
ble moment  of  leaving,  after  Garabato  had  put  on  his 
gala  dress,  and  he  descended  into  the  silent  courtyard. 

The  little  children  came  to  look  at  him,  frightened  by 
his  brilliant  clothes,  touching  him  admiringly,  but  not 
daring  to  speak.  His  mustachioed  sister  kissed  him  with 
a  look  of  terror,  as  if  he  were  being  taken  off  to  die. 
His  mother  hid  herself  in  the  darkest  room.  No,  she  did 
not  wish  to  see  him ;  she  felt  ill.    Carmen,  deathly  pale. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  173 

was  a  little  braver,  biting  her  lips  white  with  emotion, 
blinking-  her  eyes  nervously  to  keep  back  the  tears,  but 
when  she  saw  him  in  the  courtyard  she  immediately  raised 
her  handkerchief  to  her  eyes,  her  whole  frame  shaking 
with  the  sobs  she  tried  to  suppress,  and  her  sister-in- 
law  and  other  women  had  to  support  her  lest  she  should 
fall  to  the  ground. 

It  was  enough  to  make  a  coward  of  even  the  real 
Roger  de  Flor! 

"Curse  it  all!  Come  along,  man,"  said  Gallardo.  "I 
would  not  fight  in  Seville  for  all  the  gold  in  the  world, 
were  it  not  to  give  pleasure  to  my  fellow-townsmen,  and 
to  prevent  evil  speakers  from  saying  I  am  afraid  of  the 
public  in  my  own  town." 

After  rising,  the  espada  had  wandered  about  the  house, 
a  cigarette  in  his  mouth,  stretching  himself  to  see  if  his 
muscular  arms  still  retained  their  suppleness.  He  went 
into  the  kitchen  and  drank  a  glass  of  Cazalla,  where  hv^ 
mother,  active  in  spite  of  years  and  stoutness,  was  super- 
intending the  servants,  and  looking  after  the  proper  or- 
dering of  the  house. 

Gallardo  went  out  into  the  patio,  so  fresh  and  bright, 
the  birds  were  singing  gaily  in  their  gilded  cages,  a  flood 
of  sunshine  swept  over  the  marble  pavement,  and  on  to 
the  fountain  surrounded  by  plants  where  the  gold  fish 
swam  in  the  basin. 

The  espada  saw  kneeling  on  the  ground  a  woman's 
figure  in  black,  with  a  pail  by  her  side,  washing  the  mar- 
ble floor.     She  raised  her  head. 

"Good-day,  Seno  Juan,"  she  said,  with  the  affection- 
ate familiarity  that  all  popular  heroes  inspire,  and  she 
fixed  on  him  admiringly  the  glance  of  her  solitary  eye. 
The  other  was  lost  in  a  multiplicity  of  deep  wrinkles 
which  seemed  to  meet  in  the  hollow  black  socket. 


174  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  Sefior  Juan  made  no  reply,  but  turned  away  nerv- 
ously into  the  kitchen,  calling  out  to  his  mother: 

"Little  mother,  who  is  that  one-eyed  woman  who  is 
washing  the  patio  ?" 

"Who  should  she  be,  son?  A  poor  woman  with  a 
large  family.  Our  own  charwoman  is  ill,  so  I  called 
her  in." 

The  torero  was  uneasy,  and  his  look  showed  both 
anxiety  and  fear.  Curse  it!  Bulls  in  Seville,  and  the 
first  person  he  met  face  to  face  was  a  one-eyed  woman ! 
Certainly  those  things  did  not  happen  to  any  one  else. 
Nothing  could  be  of  worse  augury.  Did  they  want  his 
death  ? 

The  poor  woman,  shocked  by  his  dismal  prognostica- 
tions and  by  his  vehement  anger,  tried  to  exculpate  her- 
self. How  could  she  think  of  that?  The  poor  woman 
wanted  to  earn  a  peseta  for  her  children.  He  must  pick 
up  a  good  heart  and  thank  God,  who  had  so  often  re- 
membered them  and  delivered  them  from  similar  mis- 
ery. .  .  . 

Gallardo  was  softened  by  her  allusion  to  their  former 
poverty,  which  always  made  him  very  tolerant  to  the 
good  woman.  All  right,  let  the  one-eyed  one  remain,  and 
let  what  God  willed  happen.  And  crossing  the  patio 
with  his  back  turned  to  her  so  as  not  to  see  that  terrible 
eye,  the  matador  took  refuge  in  his  office  close  to  the 
vestibule. 

The  white  walls,  panelled  with  Moorish  tiles  to  the 
height  of  a  man,  were  hung  with  announcements  of  cor- 
ridas printed  on  silks  of  different  colours  and  diplomas 
of  charitable  societies  with  pompous  titles,  recording 
corridas  in  which  Gallardo  had  fought  gratuitously  for 
the  benefit  of  the  poor.  Innumerable  portraits  of  him- 
self, on  foot,  seated,  spreading  his  cape,  squaring  himself 
to  kill,  testified  to  the  care  with  which  the  papers  repro- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  175 

duced  the  gestures  and  divers  positions  of  the  great  man. 
Above  the  doorway  was  a  portrait  of  Carmen  in  a  white 
mantilla,  which  made  her  eyes  appear  darker  than  ever, 
with  a  bunch  of  carnations  fastened  in  her  black  hair. 
On  the  opposite  wall,  above  the  arm-chair  by  the  writing 
bureau,  was  the  enormous  head  of  a  black  bull,  with 
glassy  eyes,  highly  varnished  nostrils,  a  spot  of  white 
hair  on  the  forehead,  and  enormous  horns  tapering  to  the 
finest  point,  white  as  ivory  at  the  base  and  gradually 
darkening  to  inky  blackness  at  the  tips.  Potaje,  the  pica- 
dor, always  broke  out  into  poetic  rhapsodies  as  he  looked 
at  those  enormous  wide-spreading  horns,  saying  that  a 
blackbird  might  sing  on  the  point  of  one  horn,  without 
being  heard  from  the  point  of  the  other. 

Gallardo  sat  down  by  the  beautiful  table  covered  with 
bronzes,  where  nothing  seemed  out  of  place  save  the 
thick  coating  of  several  days'  dust.  On  the  writing  bu- 
reau, which  was  of  immense  size,  the  ink  bottles  orna- 
mented by  two  metal  horses,  were  clean  and  empty;  the 
handsome  pen  tray,  supported  by  dogs  heads,  was  also 
empty,  the  great  man  had  no  occasion  to  write,  for  Don 
Jose,  his  manager,  brought  him  all  contracts  and  other 
professional  papers  to  the  club  in  the  Calle  de  las  Sier- 
pes,  where  on  a  small  table  the  espada  slowly  and  la- 
boriously affixed  his  signature. 

On  one  side  of  the  room  stood  the  library,  a  handsome 
bookcase  of  carved  oak,  through  the  never-opened  glass 
doors  of  which  could  be  seen  imposing  rows  of  volumes 
remarkable  for  their  size  and  the  brilliance  of  their  bind- 
ings. 

When  Don  Jose  began  to  call  Gallardo  "the  torero  of 
the  aristocracy,"  the  latter  felt  he  must  live  up  to  this 
distinction,  educating  himself  so  that  his  rich  friends 
should  not  laugh  at  his  ignorance,  as  had  happened  to 


176  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

sundry  of  his  comrades.  So  one  day  he  entered  a  book 
shop  with  a  determined  air. 

"Send  me  three  thousand  pesetas'  worth  of  books." 

When  the  hbrarian  looked  slightly  bewildered,  as  if  he 
did  not  understand,  the  torero  proceeded  energetically. 

"Books.  Don't  you  understand  me?  The  biggest 
books,  and  if  you  have  no  objection,  I  should  like  them 
gilt." 

Gallardo  was  quite  pleased  with  the  look  of  his  li- 
brary. When  anything  was  spoken  of  at  the  club  which 
he  did  not  understand,  he  smiled  knowingly,  and  said 
to  himself: 

"That  must  be  in  one  of  the  books  I  have  in  the 
study." 

One  rainy  afternoon  when  he  felt  rather  poorly,  after 
wandering  listlessly  about  the  house,  not  knowing  what 
to  do,  he  had  opened  the  bookcase  and  taken  out  a  book, 
the  largest  of  all.  But  after  a  few  lines  he  gave  up  the 
reading,  and  turned  over  the  pages,  looking  at  the  prints 
like  a  child  who  wants  to  amuse  itself.  Lions,  elephants, 
wild  horses  with  flowing  manes  and  fiery  eyes,  donkeys 
striped  in  colours,  regular  as  if  done  by  rule.  .  .  .  The 
torero  turned  them  all  over  carelessly,  till  his  eyes  fell  on 
the  painted  rings  of  a  snake.  Ugh!  The  beast!  The 
nasty  beast!  And  he  closed  convulsively  the  two  middle 
fingers  of  his  hand,  throwing  out  the  index  and  little 
finger  like  horns,  to  exorcise  the  evil  eye.  He  went  on  a 
little,  but  all  the  prints  represented  horrible  reptiles,  till 
at  last  with  shaking  hands  he  shut  the  book  and  returned 
it  to  the  bookcase,  murmuring :  **Lizard,  lizard,"  to  dispel 
the  impression  of  this  evil  encounter,  and  the  key  of  the 
bookcase  remained  thenceforward  in  a  drawer  of  the 
bureau,  covered  with  old  papers. 

That  morning,  the  time  he  spent  in  his  study  only 
served  to  increase  his  anxieties  and  trepidation.   Scarcely 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  177 

knowing  why,  he  had  been  considering  the  bull's  head, 
and  the  most  painful  episode  of  his  professional  life  had 
vividly  recurred  to  his  memory.  What  a  sweating  that 
brute  had  given  him  in  the  circus  at  Zaragoza !  The  bull 
was  as  intelligent  as  a  man ;  motionless,  and  with  eyes  of 
diabolical  maliciousness,  he  waited  for  the  matador  to 
approach  him,  when,  not  deceived  by  the  red  cloth,  he 
struck  underneath  it  directly  at  the  man's  body.  The 
rapiers  were  sent  flying  through  the  air  by  his  charges 
without  ever  succeeding  in  wounding  him.  The  popu- 
lace became  impatient,  whistling  at  and  insulting  the 
torero.  The  latter  came  behind  the  bull,  following  his 
every  movement  from  one  side  of  the  Plaza  to  the  other, 
knowing  full  well  that  if  he  stood  straight  and  square 
before  the  animal  to  kill,  that  he  himself  would  be  the 
one  to  die ;  until  at  last,  perspiring  and  fatigued,  he  took 
advantage  of  an  opportunity  to  finish  him  by  a  treach- 
erous ^  side  blow,  to  the  great  scandal  of  the  mob,  who 
pelted  him  with  bottles  and  oranges;  a  remembrance 
which  made  him  hot  with  shame,  and  which,  returning 
unluckily  at  this  time,  seemed  to  him  of  quite  as  evil 
augury  as  meeting  the  one-eyed  woman,  and  seeing  the 
snake. 

He  breakfasted  alone  and  ate  little  as  was  his  habit  on 
the  days  of  a  corrida,  and  by  the  time  he  went  up  to 
dress  the  women  had  disappeared.  Ay !  how  they  hated 
that  brillant  costume,  kept  so  carefully  wrapped  up  in 
linen.  Splendid  tools  which  had  built  up  the  luxury  of 
the  family! 

The  farewells  were,  as  usual,  disconcerting  and  trou- 
bling for  Gallardo.  The  flight  of  the  women  not  to  see 
him  come  down.  Carmen's  attempts  at  fortitude,  accom- 
panying him  as  far  as  the  door,  the  wondering  curiosity 
of  the  little  nephews,  everything  irritated  the  torero, 
*This  is  looked  upon  as  "hitting  below  the  belt." 


178  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

grown  arrogant  and  hectoring  as  he  saw  the  danger  ap- 
proaching. 

"One  would  think  I  was  being  taken  to  the  gibbet! 
Good-bye  for  the  present.  Calm  yourselves.  Nothing 
w411  happen." 

And  he  got  into  the  carriage,  making  way  for  himself 
through  the  friends  and  neighbours  assembled  in  front 
of  the  house  to  wish  "Senor  Juan"  good  luck. 

The  afternoons  when  the  espada  fought  in  Seville 
were  the  most  agonizing  for  the  family.  When  he  fought 
away  from  home  they  were  obliged  to  resign  themselves 
patiently  to  wait  for  the  evening  telegram.  Here,  the 
danger  being  close  at  hand,  a  desperate  anxiety  for  news 
awoke,  and  the  necessity  of  hearing  every  few  minutes 
how  the  corrida  was  going  on. 

The  saddler,  dressed  as  a  gentleman,  in  a  suit  of  light 
flannel  and  a  silky  white  felt  hat,  offered  to  let  the 
women  know  what  was  happening.  After  every  bull 
that  Juan  killed  he  would  send  some  urchin  with  news. 
All  the  same  he  was  furious  at  the  incivility  of  his  illus^ 
trious  brother-in-law,  who  had  not  even  offered  him  ak 
seat  in  the  carriage  with  the  cuadrilla  to  drive  to  the 
Plaza! 

Gallardo  knew  the  soil  he  was  treading:  it  was  famil- 
iar to  him  and  was  in  a  sense  his  own.  The  sand  of  the 
different  Plazas  exercised  an  influence  on  his  supersti- 
tious temperament.  He  recalled  the  large  Plazas  of 
Valencia  and  Barcelona,  with  their  white  sand,  the  dark 
sand  of  the  northern  Plazas,  and  the  red  sand  of  the 
huge  circus  in  Madrid.  But  the  sand  in  Seville  was  dif- 
ferent from  any  other;  drawn  from  the  Guadalquivir  it 
was  a  bright  yellow,  like  pulverized  ochre.  The  archi- 
tecture of  the  buildings,  too,  had  a  certain  influence  over 
him,  some  built  in  Roman  style,  others  again  Moorish, 
but  the  Plaza  of  Seville  was  like  a  cathedral   full  of 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  179 

memories.  There  the  glorious  inventors  of  different 
strokes  had  brought  their  art  to  perfection ;  the  school  of 
Ronda  with  its  steady  and  dignified  fighting,  and  the 
school  of  Seville  with  its  light  play  and  mobility  which 
caught  the  public  fancy;  and  it  was  there  that  he,  top, 
this  afternoon  would  be  intoxicated  by  the  applause,  by 
the  sun,  by  the  roar  of  the  crowd,  possibly  by  the  sight 
of  a  blue  bodice  and  a  white  mantilla  leaning  over  the 
edge  of  a  box,  and  he  felt  capable  of  the  most  reckless 
hardihood. 

Anxious  to  outshine  his  companions,  and  monopolize 
all  the  applause,  Gallardo  seemed  to  fill  the  circus  with 
his  agility  and  boldness.  Never  had  he  been  in  such 
form.  Don  Jose,  after  each  one  of  his  splendid  strokes, 
stood  up  shouting,  challenging  invisible  enemies  hidden 
among  the  benches.  "Who  dares  to  say  anything  against 
him!     The  first  man  in  the  world!" 

At  Gallardo's  order.  El  Nacional,  by  clever  cloak-play 
brought  his  master's  second  bull  in  front  of  the  box, 
where  the  blue  bodice  with  the  white  mantilla  was  seated. 
It  was  Doria  Sol,  accompanied  by  the  Marquis  and  his 
two  daughters. 

Followed  by  the  eyes  of  the  audience  Gallardo  ap- 
proached the  barrier  holding  his  rapier  and  the  muleta 
in  one  hand.  When  he  arrived  opposite  the  box  he 
stopped,  took  off  his  montera,  and  offered  the  bull  as 
homage  to  the  Marquis'  niece.  Many  people  smiled  ma- 
liciously. "Ole !  the  lad  has  good  luck."  He  gave  a  half 
turn,  threw  his  montera  behind  him  when  he  had  ended 
the  "Brindis,"  and  waited  for  the  bull  which  the  peons 
were  bringing  up  to  him  by  dexterous  cloak-play. 

Keeping  the  animal  in  a  very  limited  space,  he  pre- 
vented it  moving  away  from  that  spot,  and  successfully 
accomplished  his  task.  He  wanted  to  kill  under  Dona 
Sol's  eyes,  so  that  she  should  see  him  close  at  the  mo- 


i8o  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ment  when  he  defied  danger.  Every  pass  from  his  muleta 
drew  forth  exclamations  of  enthusiasm  and  cries  of 
anxiety.  The  horn  seemed  to  graze  his  chest;  it  seemed 
impossible  that  blood  should  not  flow  after  the  bull's 
attacks.  Suddenly  he  squared  himself,  the  rapier  well  in 
line  forward,  and  before  the  public  could  give  its  advice, 
by  shouts  or  counsels,  he  had  thrown  himself  swiftly  on 
the  bull  and  for  a  few  instants  man  and  bull  looked  as 
one  body. 

When  the  man  disengaged  himself,  the  bull  rushed 
forward  with  uncertain  step  bellowing,  its  tongue  hang- 
ing from  its  mouth,  and  the  red  pommel  of  the  rapier 
scarcely  visible  on  the  crest  of  its  bloody  neck.  After 
a  few  steps  it  fell,  the  spectators  rose  to  their  feet  as 
one  man  and  a  hail  of  applause  and  furious  shouting 
burst  from  all  parts  of  the  amphitheatre.  There  was  no 
one  in  the  world  as  brave  as  Gallardo !  Had  that  man 
ever  felt  fear? 

The  espada  saluted  before  the  box,  opening  his  arms 
with  the  rapier  and  muleta  in  either  hand,  while  the 
white-gloved  hands  of  Doiia  Sol  clapped  feverish  ap- 
plause. 

Then  something  small  was  passed  down  from  spec- 
tator to  spectator,  from  the  box  down  to  the  barrier. 
It  was  the  lady's  handkerchief,  the  one  which  she  had 
held  in  her  hand,  a  small  scented  square  of  lawn  and 
lace,  passed  through  a  diamond  ring,  which  she  pre- 
sented to  the  torero  in  acknowledgment  of  his  "brindis." 

The  applause  broke  out  afresh  on  seeing  this  recog- 
nition, and  the  attention  of  the  public,  hitherto  fixed  on 
the  matador,  was  now  turned  on  Dona  Sol,  many  turn- 
ing their  backs  on  the  circus  to  look  at  her,  and  extolling 
her  beauty  with  the  familiarity  of  Andalusian  gallantry. 
Then  a  small  hairy  and  still  warm  triangle  was  passed 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  i8t 

up  from  hand  to  hand  to  the  box.  It  was  the  bull's  eaif* 
sent  by  the  matador  in  witness  of  his  "brindis." 

Before  the  fiesta  was  ended  the  news  of  Gallardo's 
great  triumph  had  spread  all  over  the  town,  and  when 
the  espada  returned  to  his  house  half  the  neighbourhood 
had  assembled  to  applaud  him,  as  though  they  had  all 
been  at  the  corrida. 

The  saddler,  forgetting  his  annoyance  with  the  espada, 
admired  him  even  more  for  his  friendly  relations  with 
the  nobility  than  for  his  exploits  in  the  bull-ring.  He 
had  his  eyes  fixed  on  a  certain  appointment,  and  he  made 
very  little  doubt  about  getting  it,  seeing  his  brother-in- 
law's  intimacy  with  the  best  people  in  Seville. 

"Show  them  the  ring.  My  goodness,  Encarnacion^ 
what  a  present !    It  is  worthy  of  Roger  de  Flor !" 

The  ring  passed  from  hand  to  hand,  with  cries  of  ad- 
miration from  the  women.  Carmen  only  pursed  up  her 
lips  on  seeing  it.  "Yes,  it  is  very  pretty,"  and  she  passed 
it  on  hurriedly  to  her  brother-in-law,  as  if  it  burnt  her 
fingers. 

After  this  corrida,  the  travelling  season  began.  Gal- 
lardo  had  more  engagements  than  in  any  previous  year. 
After  the  corridas  in  Madrid,  he  was  to  fight  in  everj 
Plaza  in  Spain.  His  manager  was  nearly  distracted  over 
the  railway  time  tables,  making  endless  calculations  for 
the  future  guidance  of  his  matador. 

Gallardo  went  from  triumph  to  triumph.  Never  had 
he  been  in  such  good  form!  He  seemed  to  have  gained 
fresh  strength.  Before  the  corridas,  cruel  doubts  over- 
whelmed him,  tremors  nearly  akin  to  fear,  such  as  he  had 
never  known  in  his  early  days,  when  he  was  only  be- 
ginning to  make  his  name ;  but  as  soon  as  he  found  him- 
self in  the  arena,  these  fears  vanished  and  an  almost 
savage  bravery  possessed  him,  which  was  always  ac- 
companied by  fresh  laurels. 


i82  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

When  his  work  was  over  in  some  provincial  town, 
and  he  returned  to  the  hotel  with  his  cuadrilla,  for  they 
all  lived  together,  he  would  sit  down  perspiring,  wearied 
with  the  pleasant  fatigue  of  triumph,  and  before  he  could 
change  his  gala  dress,  all  the  wiseacres  in  the  locality 
would  come  to  congratulate  him.  He  had  been  "colos- 
sal." He  was  the  first  torero  in  the  world!  That  esto- 
cada  of  the  fourth  bull!  .  .  . 

"Yes,  indeed,"  said  Gallardo,  with  almost  childish 
pride.     "Really  I  was  not  bad  in  that." 

With  the  interminable  verbosity  of  all  conversations 
about  bulls,  the  time  passed  without  either  the  espada  or 
his  friends  wearying  of  talking  about  the  afternoon's 
corridas,  or  about  those  of  previous  years.  Night  fell, 
the  lights  were  lit,  but  still  the  aficionados  did  not  go. 
The  cuadrilla,  according  to  bull-fighting  discipline,  lis- 
tened silently  to  all  this  babel  of  talk  at  the  further  end 
of  the  room.  As  long  as  the  master  had  not  given  his 
permission,  his  "lads"  could  neither  undress  nor  sup. 
The  picadors,  fatigued  by  the  iron  armour  on  their  legs 
and  the  terrible  bruises  resulting  from  their  falls  from 
horseback,  held  their  coarse  beaver  hats  between  their 
knees :  the  banderilleros,  their  skintight  silk  garments, 
wet  with  perspiration,  were  all  hungry  after  their  after- 
noon's violent  exercise ;  all  w^ere  thinking  the  same  thing 
and  casting  furious  looks  at  these  enthusiasts. 

"When  Off  earth  will  those  tiresome  idiots  leave? 
Curse  their  hearts !" 

At  last  the  matador  noticed  them.  "You  may  go,"  he 
said.  And  the  cuadrilla  escaped,  pushing  each  other 
like  school  boys  let  loose,  while  the  maestro  continued 
listening  to  the  praises  of  the  connoisseurs,  and  Garabato 
waited  silently  to  undress  him. 

On  his  days  of  rest,  the  maestro,  free  from  the  excite- 
ments of  danger  and  glory,  turned  his  thoughts  towards 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  183 

Seville.  Now  and  then  one  of  those  short  little  per- 
fumed notes  came  for  him,  congratulating  him  on  his 
triumphs.    Ay !    If  only  Dona  Sol  were  with  him ! 

There  were  moments  in  which  he  felt  compelled  to 
confide  his  sadness  to  El  Nacional  with  that  irresistible 
impulse  of  confession  which  all  feel  who  carry  a  heavy 
weight  in  their  hearts. 

Besides,  now  he  was  away  from  Seville,  he  felt  a 
greater  affection  for  the  banderillero,  a  kind  of  reflected 
tenderness.  Sebastian  knew  of  his  loves  with  Dona  Sol ; 
he  had  seen  her,  though  from  afar,  and  she  had  often 
laughed  when  Gallardo  told  her  of  the  picador's  orig- 
inalities. 

Sebastian  received  his  master's  confidences  with  se- 
vere looks. 

"What  you  have  got  to  do,  Juan,  is  to  forget  this  lady. 
Family  peace  is  worth  more  than  anything  to  us  who 
knock  about  the  world,  constantly  exposed  to  danger  and 
liable  to  be  brought  home  any  day  feet  foremost.  See! 
Carmen  knows  a  great  deal  more  than  you  think.  She  is 
perfectly  acquainted  with  everything,  and  she  has  even 
questioned  me  indirectly  as  to  your  relations  with  the 
Marquis'  niece.  Poor  little  thing !  It  is  a  shame  to  make 
her  suffer !  .  .  .  She  has  a  temper,  and  if  you  arouse  it, 
it  may  give  you  some  trouble." 

But  Gallardo,  away  from  his  family,  and  with  his 
thoughts  dominated  by  the  remembrance  of  Dofia  Sol, 
did  not  seem  to  understand  the  dangers  of  which  El  Na- 
cional spoke,  and  shrugged  his  shoulders  at  these  senti- 
mental scruples.  He  felt  the  need  of  speaking  of  his 
remembrances,  of  making  his  friend  the  confidant  of 
his  past  happiness. 

*'You  do  not  know  what  that  woman  is!  You  are  an 
unlucky  man,  Sebastian,  who  does  not  know  what  is 
good.    Take  all  the  beautiful  women  in  Seville  together 


i84  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

— they  are  as  nothing.  See  all  those  we  meet  on  our 
travels — neither  are  they  anything.  There  is  only  one — 
Dona  Sol,  and  when  you  know  a  woman  like  that,  you 
do  not  want  to  know  any  others.  If  you  only  knew  her 
as  I  do,  gacho !  Women  of  our  class  reek  of  health  and 
clean  linen,  but  this  one !  .  .  .  Sebastian,  this  one !  .  .  . 
Picture  to  yourself  all  the  roses  in  the  gardens  of  the 
Alcazar — No,  something  better  still — jasmine,  honey- 
suckle, all  the  bewildering  perfumes  of  the  gardens  of 
Paradise,  and  those  sweet  scents  seem  to  belong  to  her, 
not  as  if  she  put  them  on,  but  as  if  they  were  flowering 
in  her  veins.  Besides,  she  is  not  one  of  those  who  once 
seen  are  always  the  same.  With  her  there  is  always 
something  still  to  desire,  something  to  hope  for,  some- 
thing which  is  never  attained.  I  cannot,  Sebastian,  ex- 
press myself  better  .  .  .  But  you  do  not  know  what  a 
great  lady  is ;  so  don't  preach  any  more,  and  shut  your 
beak." 

Gallardo  no  longer  received  any  letters  from  Seville. 
Dona  Sol  was  abroad.  He  saw  her  once  when  he  was 
fighting  in  San  Sebastian.  The  beautiful  woman  was 
staying  in  Biarritz  and  she  came  over  with  some  French 
ladies  who  wished  to  know  the  torero.  After  that  he 
heard  very  little  of  her ;  only  from  the  few  letters  he 
got,  and  from  the  news  his  manager  collected  from  the 
Marquis  de  Moraima. 

She  was  at  the  seaside,  then  he  heard  she  had  gone 
to  England,  then  to  Germany,  and  Gallardo  despaired 
of  ever  seeing  her  again. 

This  possibility  saddened  the  torero,  and  revealed  the 
ascendancy  this  woman  had  gained  both  over  himself 
and  his  will.  Never  to  see  her  again !  Why  then  should 
he  expose  his  life  and  become  famous?  Of  what  use 
was  the  applause  of  the  populace? 

His  manager  reassured  him.     She  would  return :  he 


BLOOD  AND  SAND*  185 

was  quite  certain.  Even  if  it  were  only  for  a  year,  for 
Dona  Sol,  with  all  her  mad  caprices,  was  a  very  prac- 
tical woman,  and  knew  how  to  look  after  what  belonged 
to  her.  She  needed  her  uncle's  assistance  to  disentangle 
the  most  involved  affairs,  both  of  her  own  and  her  late 
husband's  fortune,  produced  by  their  long  and  expensive 
stay  abroad. 

The  espada  returned  to  Seville  towards  the  end  of  the 
summer.  He  had  still  a  good  many  corridas  for  the  au- 
tumn, but  he  wanted  to  take  advantage  of  a  month's  rest, 
during  the  absence  of  his  family  at  the  Baths  of  San 
Lucar. 

Gallardo  shivered  with  emotion  when  one  day  his  man- 
ager announced  the  unexpected  return  of  Dofia  Sol. 

He  went  to  see  her  at  once,  but  after  the  first  few 
words  felt  intimidated  by  her  cold  amiability  and  the  ex- 
pression of  her  eyes. 

She  looked  at  him  as  if  he  were  different.  In  her 
glance  a  certain  surprise  at  his  rough  exterior,  at  the 
difference  between  herself  and  this  man,  the  matador  of 
bulls,  could  be  guessed. 

He  also  felt  this  gulf  which  seemed  opening  between 
them.  He  looked  at  her  as  though  she  were  another 
woman;  a  great  lady  of  a  different  race  and  country. 

They  talked  quietly.  She  seemed  to  have  forgotten 
the  past,  and  Gallardo  did  not  dare  to  remind  her  of  it, 
nor  to  make  the  slightest  advance,  fearing  one  of  her 
outbursts  of  anger. 

"Seville!"  said  Dona  Sol.  "It  is  very  beautiful  .  .  . 
very  pleasant.  But  there  is  more  in  the  world!  I  warn 
you,  Gallardo,  that  some  day  I  shall  take  flight  for  ever. 
I  guess  that  I  shall  be  bored  to  death.  My  Seville  seems 
quite  changed." 

She  no  longer  *'tutoyed"  him,  and  it  was  many  days 
before  the  torero  dared  during  his  visits  to  make  the 


286  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

slightest  allusion  to  the  past.  He  confined  himself  to 
gazing  at  her  in  silence,  with  his  moist  and  adoring 
Moorish  eyes. 

"I  am  bored.  Some  day  I  shall  go  away,"  she  ex- 
claimed at  all  these  interviews. 

Other  times  the  imposing  servant  would  receive  the 
torero  at  the  wicket  and  tell  him  the  Sefiora  was  out, 
when  he  knew  quite  certainly  that  she  was  at  home. 

Gallardo  told  her  one  evening  of  a  short  excursion  he 
was  obliged  to  make  to  his  farm  of  La  Rinconada.  He 
wanted  to  see  some  olive  yards  his  manager  had  bought 
for  him  during  his  absence,  and  added  to  the  property. 
He  wanted  also  to  look  after  the  general  work. 

The  idea  of  accompanying  the  espada  on  this  expedi- 
tion delighted  Dona  Sol.  To  go  to  that  grange  where 
Gallardo's  family  spent  the  greater  part  of  the  year! 
To  enter  with  the  startling  scandal  of  irregularity  and 
sin  into  the  quiet  atmosphere  of  that  country  house, 
where  the  poor  fellow  lived  with  his  belongings !  .  .  . 

The  absurdity  of  the  wish  decided  her.  She  also  would 
go.    The  idea  of  seeing  La  Rinconada  interested  her. 

Gallardo  felt  afraid.  He  thought  of  all  the  farm  peo- 
ple, of  the  gossips  who  would  probably  tell  his  family  of 
this  trip,  but  Doiia  Sol's  glance  beat  down  all  his  scru- 
ples. Who  could  tell  ?  .  .  .  possibly  this  trip  might  bring 
on  a  return  of  their  former  intimacy. 

All  the  same  he  wished  to  oppose  one  obstacle  to  this 
wish. 

"How  about  El  Plumitas?  .  .  .  According  to  what  I 
hear,  he  is  wandering  round  La  Rinconada." 

"Ah !  El  Plumitas !"  Dona  Sol's  face,  darkened  by 
boredom,  seemed  to  light  up  with  an  inward  flame. 

"How  curious !  I  should  be  so  delighted  if  you  could 
present  him  to  me." 

Gallardo  arranged  the  journey.     He  had  thought  of 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  187 

going  alone,  but  Dona  Sol's  company  obliged  him  to  seek 
an  escort,  fearing  some  evil  encounter  on  the  road. 

He  looked  up  Potaje,  the  picador.  He  was  extremely 
rough,  fearing  nothing  in  the  world  but  his  gipsy  wife, 
who  when  she  was  tired  of  being  beaten  would  turn  and 
bite  him.  There  would  be  no  need  to  give  him  any  ex- 
planations, only  wine  in  abundance.  Alcohol  and  his 
atrocious  falls  in  the  arena  seemed  to  keep  him  in  a  per- 
petual muddle,  as  if  his  head  were  buzzing,  and  only 
permitted  his  few  slow  words  and  a  cloudy  vision  of 
everything. 

He  ordered  also  El  Nacional  to  accompany  them,  he 
would  be  one  more,  and  was  of  tried  discretion. 

The  banderillero  obeyed  from  subordination,  but  he 
grumbled  when  he  knew  Dona  Sol  was  going  with  them. 

"By  the  life  of  the  blue  dove !  To  think  of  the  father 
of  a  family  mixing  himself  up  in  such  ugly  doings !  .  .  . 
What  will  Carmen  and  the  Senora  Angustias  say  of  me 
when  they  come  to  hear  of  it?" 

But  when  he  found  himself  in  the  open  country,  seated 
by  the  side  of  Potaje,  in  front  of  the  espada  and  the 
great  lady,  his  annoyance  gradually  vanished. 

He  could  not  see  her  well,  wrapped  up  as  she  was  in 
a  large  blue  veil  which  covered  her  travelling  cap,  and 
falling  over  her  yellow  silk  coat ;  but  she  was  very  beau- 
tiful .  .  .  And  to  hear  them  talk!  What  things  she 
knew! 

Before  the  journey  was  half  over.  El  Nacional,  in  spite 
of  his  twenty-five  years  of  conjugal  fidelity,  forgave  his 
master's  weakness,  and  quite  understood  his  infatua- 
tion. 

If  ever  he  found  himself  in  a  like  situation  he  would 
do  exactly  the  same! 

Education !  .  .  ,  It  was  a  great  thing,  capable  of  infus- 
ing respectability  even  into  the  most  heinous  sins. 


CHAPTER   V 

"Let  him  tell  you  who  he  is,  or  let  him  go  to  the 
devil.  Cursed  bad  luck.  .  .  .  Can't  you  let  a  fellow 
sleep?" 

£1  Nacional  received  this  answer  through  his  mas- 
ter's bedroom  door,  and  passed  it  on  to  a  farm  servant 
who  was  waiting  on  the  stairs. 

"Tell  him  to  say  who  he  is ;  otherwise  the  master  won't 
get  up." 

It  was  eight  o'clock,  and  the  banderillero  went  to  a 
window  to  watch  the  farm  servant,  who  ran  down  the 
road  in  front  of  the  grange,  till  he  came  to  the  end  of 
the  distant  fence  which  bounded  the  property.  Close  to 
the  entrance  through  this  fence,  he  saw  a  rider,  who  ap- 
peared very  small  in  the  distance,  both  man  and  horse 
looking  as  if  they  had  come  out  of  a  toy  box. 

A  short  time  afterwards  the  labourer  returned,  hav- 
ing talked  with  the  rider. 

El  Nacional,  who  seemed  interested  by  these  comings 
and  goings,  waited  for  him  at  the  foot  of  the  staircase. 

"He  says  he  must  see  the  master,"  mumbled  the  shep- 
herd, stammering.  "He  seems  to  mc  up  to  no  good.  He 
says  the  master  must  come  down  at  once,  as  he  has  some- 
thing important  to  tell  him." 

The  banderillero  returned  to  knock  at  his  master's 
door,  paying  no  attention  to  his  grumbling.  He  ought 
to  get  up,  it  was  a  late  hour  for  the  country,  and  the 
man  might  bring  some  important  message. 

"I'm  coming,"  said  Gallardo  ill-humouredly,  without 
however  moving  from  his  bed. 

1 88 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  189 

EI  Nacional  went  again  to  the  window,  and  saw  the 
rider  coming  up  the  road  towards  the  house. 

The  shepherd  was  going  to  meet  him  with  the  reply. 
The  poor  man  seemed  uneasy,  and  in  his  two  dialogues 
with  the  banderillero,  had  stuttered  with  an  expression 
of  fright  and  doubt,  but  had  not  dared  to  disclose  his 
thoughts. 

After  rejoining  the  rider,  he  listened  to  him  for  a  few 
minutes  and  then  retraced  his  steps,  running  towards  the 
farm,  but  this  time  very  quickly. 

El  Nacional  heard  him  running  up  the  stairs  no  less 
quickly,  coming  up  to  him  pale  and  trembling. 

"It  is  El  Plumitas,  Serio  Sebastian.  He  says  he  is 
Plumitas  and  that  he  must  see  the  master.  .  .  .  My  heart 
beat  directly  I  saw  him." 

"El  Plumitas!"  The  shepherd's  voice,  in  spite  of  be- 
ing shaking  and  breathless,  seemed  to  penetrate  through- 
out the  whole  house  as  he  pronounced  that  name.  The 
banderillero  stood  dumb  with  surprise,  and  from  the 
espada's  room  came  a  volley  of  oaths,  the  rustle  of 
clothes,  and  the  sound  of  some  one  throwing  himself 
roughly  out  of  bed.  From  the  room  occupied  by  Dona 
Sol  other  sounds  also  came  which  seemed  in  answer  to 
this  astounding  news. 

"Curse  him!  What  does  the  man  want?  Why  has 
he  come  to  La  Rincona?  especially  just  now!"  .  .  . 

Gallardo  came  quickly  out  of  his  room,  having  only 
drawn  his  trousers  and  jacket  over  his  night  clothes. 
He  ran  on  before  the  banderillero,  with  the  blind  im- 
pulsiveness of  his  character,  throwing  himself  in  hot 
haste  down  the  stairs  followed  by  El  Nacional. 

At  the  entrance  of  the  farm  the  rider  was  dismount- 
ing. A  shepherd  held  the  horse's  reins,  and  the  other 
labourers  gathered  in  a  group  at  a  short  distance,  watch- 
ing the  new  comer  with  curiosity  and  respect. 


190  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  new  comer  was  a  man  of  medium  stature,  rather 
short  than  tall,  plump  faced,  fair,  with  short  strong 
limbs.  He  was  dressed  in  a  grey  jacket  trimmed  with 
black  braid,  dark-striped  breeches  with  a  large  piece  of 
leather  inside  the  knee,  and  leather  gaiters  wrinkled  and 
cracked  by  the  sun  and  the  rain.  Underneath  his  jacket, 
his  waist  seemed  swelled  out  by  the  folds  of  a  large  silk 
waist  sash,  and  a  cartridge  box,  to  which  were  added  the 
thickness  of  a  revolver,  and  a  large  knife  passed  through 
his  belt.  In  his  right  hand  he  carried  a  repeating  carbine. 
His  head  was  covered  by  a  sombrero  which  had  once 
been  white,  but  which  was  now  stained  and  ragged  by 
the  inclemency  of  the  weather.  A  red  handkerchief 
knotted  round  his  throat  was  the  most  showy  part  of 
his  dress. 

His  broad  chubby  face  had  the  placidity  of  a  full 
moon.  On  his  cheeks,  whose  whiteness  showed  through 
the  coat  of  sunburn,  sprouted  a  red  beard,  unshaven  for 
several  days.  The  eyes  were  the  only  disquieting  things 
in  this  good-humoured  face,  which  looked  as  if  it  must 
belong  to  a  village  sacristan ;  they  were  small  triangular 
eyes,  sunk  in  rolls  of  fat ;  little  pig  eyes,  with  a  malignant 
dark  blue  pupil. 

As  Gallardo  appeared  at  the  door,  the  man  recognized 
him  at  once,  raising  his  sombrero  from  his  round  head. 

"God  give  us  a  good  day,  Seno  Juan  .  .  ."  he  said 
with  the  grave  courtesy  of  an  Andalusian  peasant. 

"Good  day." 

"Are  your  family  quite  well,  Sefio  Juan?" 

"Quite  well,  thanks.  And  yours  ?"  enquired  the  espada 
automatically  from  habit. 

"I  believe  they  are  quite  well.  But  it  is  a  long  time 
since  I  have  seen  them." 

The  two  men  were  standing  close  together,  examining 
each  other  as  naturally  as  possible,  as  if  they  were  two 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  191 

wayfarers  who  had  met  in  the  country.  The  torero  was 
pale,  compressing  his  lips  to  hide  his  feelings.  Did  the 
bandit  think  he  was  going  to  frighten  him !  Possibly  at 
another  time  this  visit  might  have  scared  him,  but  now — 
having  upstairs  what  he  had,  he  felt  capable  of  fighting 
him  just  as  if  he  had  been  a  bull,  directly  he  declared  his 
evil  intentions. 

A  few  moments  passed  in  silence.  All  the  farm  men 
(about  a  dozen),  who  had  not  gone  out  to  work  in  the 
fields,  were  looking  with  almost  childish  wonder  at  this 
terrible  personage,  whose  very  name  obsessed  them  with 
its  gloomy  fame. 

"Can  they  take  the  mare  round  to  the  stable  to  rest  a 
little?"  enquired  the  bandit. 

Gallardo  signed  to  a  man,  who  took  the  reins  and 
walked  away  with  her. 

"Take  good  care  of  her,"  said  Plumitas.  "Mia  is 
the  best  thing  I  have  in  the  world  and  I  love  her  more 
than  wife  or  children." 

A  fresh  personage  had  joined  the  group,  standing  in 
the  midst  of  the  amazed  people. 

It  was  Potaje,  the  picador,  who  came  out  half  dressed 
and  stretching  himself,  with  all  the  rough  strength  of 
his  athletic  body.  He  rubbed  his  eyes,  always  bloodshot 
and  inflamed  by  drink,  and  approaching  the  bandit  let 
one  huge  hand  fall  on  his  shoulder  with  studied  famil- 
iarity, as  if  he  enjoyed  feeling  him  squirm  under  his 
grasp  and  wished  at  the  same  time  to  express  his  rough 
sympathy. 

"How  are  you,  Plumitas?"  .  .  . 

He  saw  him  for  the  first  time.  The  bandit  drew  him- 
self together  as  if  he  intended  to  resent  this  rough  and 
unceremonious  caress,  and  his  right  hand  raised  the 
rifle.  However,  fixing  his  little  blue  eyes  on  the  picador, 
he  seemed  to  recognize  him. 


192  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"You  are  Potaje,  if  I  am  not  mistaken.  I  saw  you 
spear  in  Seville  at  the  last  fair.  Good  Lord  how  you 
fell!  How  strong  you  are!  .  .  .  One  would  think  you 
were  made  of  iron." 

And  as  if  to  return  the  salute,  he  seized  the  picador's 
arm  with  his  horny  hand,  feeling  his  biceps  with  admira- 
tion. The  two  stood  looking  at  each  other,  till  the  pica- 
dor gave  a  deep  laugh. 

"Jo !  Jo !  I  thought  you  were  much  bigger,  Plumitas. 
But  that  does  not  matter;  for  in  spite  of  it  you  are  a 
fine  fellow." 

The  bandit  turned  to  the  espada. 

"Can  I  breakfast  here?" 

Gallardo  put  on  the  look  of  a  great  nobleman. 

"No  one  who  comes  to  La  Rincona  leaves  it  without 
breakfast." 

They  all  entered  the  farm  kitchen,  an  immense  room, 
with  a  large  wide  open  chimney,  which  was  the  general 
gathering  place. 

The  espada  sat  down  in  an  arm-chair,  and  a  girl,  the 
overseer's  daughter,  busied  herself  with  putting  on  his 
boots,  for  in  his  hurry  he  had  run  down  in  his  slippers. 

El  Nacional,  wishing  to  give  signs  of  his  existence, 
and  reassured  by  the  courteous  manner  of  the  visitor,  ap- 
peared with  a  bottle  of  country  wine  and  some  glasses. 

"I  know  you  also,"  said  the  bandit,  treating  him  as 
familiarly  as  the  picador.  "I  have  seen  you  fix  in 
banderillas.  When  you  like  you  can  do  well  enough,  but 
you  must  throw  yourself  on  the  bull  better." 

Potaje  and  the  maestro  laughed  at  this  advice.  As  he 
took  up  the  glass,  Plumitas  found  himself  embarrassed 
by  his  carbine,  which  he  had  placed  between  his  knees. 

"Put  it  down,  man,"  said  the  picador.  "Do  you  stick 
to  30ur  weapon  when  you  are  paying  a  visit?" 

The  bandit  became  suddenly  serious.    It  was  all  ri^t 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  193 

so,  it  was  his  usual  habit.  The  carbine  kept  him  com- 
pany everywhere,  even  when  he  slept.  This  allusion  to 
his  weapon  which  seemed  another  limb  of  his  body,  made 
him  grave.  He  looked  all  round  uneasily,  and  suspi- 
ciously, with  the  habit  of  living  constantly  on  the  alert, 
trusting  no  one,  confiding  in  nothing  but  his  own  en- 
deavours, and  feeling  danger  constantly  all  round  him. 

A  shepherd  crossed  the  kitchen  going  towards  the 
door. 

"Where  is  that  man  going  to?" 

As  he  asked  this  he  sat  upright  in  his  chair,  drawing 
his  loaded  carbine  closer  to  his  breast  with  his  knees. 

He  was  going  to  a  large  field  near  where  the  rest  of 
the  labourers  were  working.  Plumitas  seemed  tran- 
quillized. 

"Listen  here,  Sefio  Juan.  I  have  come  here  for  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you  and  because  I  know  you  are  a 
caballero,  incapable  of  breathing  a  word  .  .  .  Besides, 
you  will  have  heard  of  Plumitas.  It  is  not  easy  to  catch 
him,  and  he  who  tries  it  will  pay  for  it." 

The  picador  intervened  before  his  master  could  speak. 

"Don't  be  a  brute,  Plumitas.  You  are  here  among 
comrades  as  long  as  you  behave  well  and  decently." 

And  at  once  the  bandit  seemed  reassured,  and  began 
to  speak  of  his  mare,  praising  her  qualities,  and  the  two 
men  hobnobbed  with  the  enthusiasm  of  mountain  riders 
who  love  a  horse  far  better  than  a  man. 

Gallardo,  who  still  seemed  anxious,  walked  about  the 
kitchen,  where  some  of  the  farm  women,  swarthy  and 
masculine,  were  preparing  the  breakfast,  looking  side- 
ways at  the  celebrated  Plumitas. 

In  one  of  his  turns  the  espada  came  up  to  El  Nacional. 
He  must  go  to  Dofia  Sol's  room,  and  ask  her  not  to  come 
down.     The   bandit   would   most   probably   leave   after 


194  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

breakfast,  and  why  show  herself  to  that  redoubtable  per- 
sonage ? 

The  banderillero  disappeared,  and  Plumitas,  seeing  the 
maestro  apart  from  the  others,  went  up  to  him,  inquiring 
with  great  interest  about  the  remaining  corridas  of  the 
year. 

"I  am  a  Gallardista,  you  know.  I  have  applauded  you 
oftener  than  you  could  imagine.  I  have  seen  you  in  Se- 
ville, in  Jaen,  in  Cordoba  ...  in  ever  so  many  places." 

Gallardo  was  astounded.  How  could  he,  who  had  a 
real  army  of  soldiers  after  him,  go  quietly  to  a  corrida 
of  bulls?     Plumitas  smiled  with  superiority. 

"Bah !    I  go  wherever  I  like.    I  am  everywhere." 

Then  he  spoke  of  the  occasions  on  which  he  had  met 
the  espada  on  the  way  to  the  farm,  sometimes  accom- 
panied, at  other  times  alone,  passing  close  to  him  on  the 
road,  and  taking  no  notice  of  him,  thinking  him  probably 
some  poor  shepherd  riding  to  deliver  a  message  at  some 
hut  close  by. 

"When  you  came  from  Seville  to  buy  those  two  mills 
down  there,  I  met  you  on  the  road.  You  had  then  five 
thousand  duros  on  you.  Had  you  not?  Tell  the  truth. 
You  see  I  was  well  informed.  .  .  .  Another  time  I  saw 
you  in  one  of  those  animals  they  call  automobiles,  with 
another  gentleman  from  Seville,  your  manager  I  believe. 
You  were  going  to  sign  the  papers  for  the  Oliver  del 
Cura,  and  you  had  a  much  larger  pot  of  money  with 
you  that  time." 

Little  by  little  Gallardo  recalled  the  exactitude  of  those 
facts,  looking  with  wonder  at  this  man,  who  seemed  to 
be  informed  about  everything.  The  bandit,  in  order  to 
show  his  generosity  to  the  torero  on  those  occasions, 
spoke  of  the  ease  with  which  he  surmounted  difficulties. 

"You  see,  about  those  automobiles, — it  is  a  trifle!  I 
can  stop  one  of  those  'bichos'  with  only  this,"  showing 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  195 

his  carbine.  "Once  in  Cordoba  I  had  some  accounts  to 
settle  with  a  rich  gentleman  who  was  my  enemy.  I  drew 
up  my  mare  on  one  side  of  the  road,  and  when  that 
'bicho'  came  along  in  a  cloud  of  dust  and  stinking  of 
petroleum,  I  shouted  'Halt!*  He  did  not  choose  to  stop, 
so  I  put  a  ball  into  one  of  his  wheels.  To  cut  it  short, 
the  automobile  stopped  a  little  further  on  and  I  galloped 
up  and  settled  my  accounts  with  the  fellow.  A  man 
who  can  put  a  ball  wherever  he  chooses,  can  stop  any- 
thing on  the  road." 

Gallardo  felt  more  and  more  astonished  as  he  heard 
Plumitas  tell  of  his  exploits  on  the  road,  with  quite  pro- 
fessional simplicity. 

"I  did  not  wish  to  stop  you.  You  are  not  one  of  those 
rich  men.  You  are  a  poor  man  like  myself,  only  you 
have  better  luck,  more  than  enough  in  your  profession; 
if  you  have  made  money  you  have  earned  it  well.  I  like 
you  because  you  are  a  fine  matador,  and  I  have  a  weak- 
ness for  brave  men.  The  two  of  us  are  like  comrades; 
we  both  live  by  exposing  our  lives.  For  this  reason,  al- 
though you  did  not  know  me,  I  was  there,  seeing  you 
pass  without  even  asking  a  cigarette  from  you,  for  fear 
that  some  rascal  should  take  advantage  by  going  on  the 
highway  and  saying  he  was  Plumitas;  stranger  things 
have  happened.  ..." 

An  unexpected  apparition  cut  short  the  bandit's 
speech,  and  the  torero's  face  changed  to  a  look  of  ex- 
treme annoyance.  "Curse  it!  Dona  Sol!  Had  not  El 
Nacional  given  his  message?"  .  .  .  The  banderillero  fol- 
lowed the  lady,  making  various  signs  from  the  kitchen 
door,  which  meant  that  all  his  prayers  and  advice  had 
been  useless. 

Doiia  Sol  came  down  in  her  travelling  coat,  her  golden 
hair  combed  and  knotted  hurriedly.  El  Plumitas  in  the 
farm :    What  joy !    Part  of  the  night  she  had  been  think- 


196  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ing  of  him,  proposing  on  the  following  morning  to  ride 
about  the  solitudes  around  La  Rinconada,  in  the  hopes 
that  good  luck  would  make  her  run  against  the  interest- 
ing bandit.  And  as  if  her  thoughts  exercised  a  far  dis- 
tant influence  in  attracting  people,  the  bandit  had  obeyed 
her  wishes  and  had  appeared  early  in  the  grange. 

El  Plumitas !  The  name  alone  called  up  the  full 
figure  of  the  bandit  before  her  imagination.  She  scarcely 
needed  to  know  him ;  she  would  scarcely  feel  any  sur- 
prise. She  saw  him  tall,  slim,  of  dark  complexion,  a 
pointed  hat  placed  over  a  red  handkerchief,  from  under 
which  appeared  curls  of  hair  as  black  as  jet.  She  saw 
an  active  man,  dressed  in  black  velvet,  his  slim  waist 
encircled  by  a  purple  silk  sash,  and  his  legs  in  gaiters  of 
a  fine  date  colour — a  veritable  knight  errant  of  the  An- 
dalusian  steppes. 

Her  eyes,  wide  open  with  excitement,  wandered  over 
the  kitchen,  without  seeing  either  a  pointed  hat  or  a 
blunderbus.  She  saw  an  unknown  man,  standing  up,  a 
kind  of  keeper  with  a  carbine,  just  like  any  of  those  she 
had  so  often  seen  on  estates  belonging  to  her  family. 

"Good  day,  Senora  Marquesa  .  .  .  Your  uncle,  the 
Marquis,  is  he  quite  well?" 

The  looks  of  every  one  converging  on  that  man,  told 
her  the  truth.     "Ay !     And  that  was  Plumitas !"  .  .  . 

He  had  taken  off  his  hat  with  clumsy  courtesy,  abashed 
by  the  lady's  presence,  and  continued  standing  with  his 
carbine  in  one  hand,  and  the  old  felt  hat  in  the  other. 

Gallardo  was  fairly  astounded  at  the  bandit's  address. 
That  man  seemed  to  know  every  one.  He  knew  who 
Dona  Sol  was,  and  by  an  excess  of  respect,  extended  to 
her  the  titles  belonging  to  her  family. 

The  lady,  recovering  from  her  surprise,  signed  to  him 
to  sit  down  and  cover  himself,  but  though  he  obeyed  the 
first,  he  left  the  felt  hat  on  a  chair  close  by. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  197 

As  if  he  guessed  the  question  in  Dona  Sol's  eyes, 
which  were  fixed  on  him,  he  added: 

"The  Senora  Marquesa  must  not  be  surprised  at  my 
knowing  her.  I  have  seen  her  very  often  with  the  Mar- 
quis and  others  going  to  the  trial  of  the  calves.  I  have 
seen  also  from  afar  how  the  Senora  attacked  the  young 
bulls  with  her  garrocha.  The  Senora  is  very  brave  and 
the  handsomest  woman  I  have  seen  on  God's  earth.  It 
is  a  pure  delight  to  see  her  on  horseback.  And  men 
ought  to  fight  for  her  heavenly  blue  eyes !" 

The  bandit  was  drawn  on  quite  naturally  by  his 
southern  warmth  to  seek  fresh  expressions  of  admira- 
tion for  Doiia  Sol. 

She  had  grown  paler,  and  her  eyes  were  wide  open 
with  half  pleased  terror;  she  began  to  find  the  bandit 
decidedly  interesting.  Had  he  come  to  the  farm  only 
for  her?  Did  he  propose  to  carry  her  off  to  his  hiding 
places  in  the  mountains  ?  .  .  . 

The  torero  grew  alarmed  hearing  these  expressions  of 
rough  admiration.  Curse  him!  In  his  own  house  .  .  . 
before  his  very  face!  If  he  went  on  like  this  he  would 
go  up  and  fetch  his  gun,  and  even  though  Plumitas 
were  the  other  one,  they  would  see  which  one  would 
carry  her  off. 

The  bandit  seemed  to  understand  the  annoyance  his 
words  had  caused,  and  went  on  most  respectfully. 

"Your  pardon,  Senora  Marquesa.  It  is  idle  talk  and 
nothing  more.  I  have  a  wife  and  four  children,  who 
weep  for  me  more  than  the  Virgin  of  Sorrows.  I  am 
an  unhappy  man,  who  is  what  he  is  because  bad  luck 
has  pursued  him." 

As  if  he  were  endeavouring  to  make  himself  agree- 
able to  Dona  Sol,  he  broke  out  into  praises  of  her  family. 
The  Marquis  de  Moraima  was  one  of  the  most  honour- 
able men  in  the  world. 


198  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"If  only  all  rich  men  were  like  him.  My  father 
worked  for  him  and  often  spoke  of  his  kindness.  I 
spent  one  hot  weather  in  the  hut  of  one  of  his  shepherds. 
He  knew  it  and  never  said  a  word.  He  has  given  orders 
on  all  his  farms  to  give  me  what  I  want  and  to  leave 
me  in  peace.  .  .  .  These  things  are  never  forgotten. 
There  are  so  many  rich  rascals  in  the  world !  .  .  .  Very 
often  I  have  met  him  alone,  riding  his  horse  like  a  young 
man,  as  if  years  had  stood  still  for  him.  'Go  with  God, 
Seno  Marque.*  'Your  health,  my  lad.'  He  did  not 
know  me;  and  could  not  guess  who  I  was  because  my 
companion  (touching  his  carbine)  was  hidden  under 
my  blanket.  And  I  should  have  wished  to  stop  him  to 
take  his  hand,  not  to  shake  it — that  no — how  could  so 
good  a  man  shake  hands  with  me,  who  have  so  many 
deaths  and  mutilations  on  my  soul,  but  to  kiss  it  as  if 
he  were  my  father,  and  to  thank  him  for  what  he  has 
done  for  me." 

The  vehemence  with  which  he  spoke  of  his  gratitude 
did  not  move  Dofia  Sol.  And  so  that  was  the  famous 
Plumitas !  .  .  .  A  poor  sort  of  man,  a  good  country 
rabbit  whom  every  one  looked  on  as  a  wolf,  deceived 
by  his  fame. 

"There  are  very  bad  rich  men,"  went  on  the  bandit. 
"What  some  of  them  make  the  poor  suffer!  .  .  .  Near 
jny  village  lives  one  who  lends  money  on  usury  and  who 
is  more  perverse  than  Judas.  I  sent  him  a  notice  that 
he  should  not  cause  trouble  to  the  people,  and  he,  the 
thief,  gave  information  to  the  civil  guards  to  search  for 
me.  Result,  that  I  burnt  his  hay-rick,  and  did  a  few 
other  little  things,  and  he  was  more  than  a  year  with- 
out ever  daring  to  go  into  Seville  for  fear  of  meeting 
Plumitas.  Another  man  was  going  to  evict  a  poor  old 
woman  from  the  house  in  which  her  parents  had  lived, 
because  she  had  not  paid  any  rent  for  a  year.     I  went 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  199 

to  see  the  gentleman  one  evening,  when  he  was  sitting  at 
table  with  his  family.  *My  master,  I  am  El  Plumitas, 
and  I  want  a  hundred  duros.'  He  gave  them  to  me,  and 
I  took  them  to  the  old  woman.  'Here,  granny,  take 
these — pay  that  Jew  what  you  owe  him,  and  keep  the 
rest  for  yourself,  and  may  they  bring  you  luck.'  " 

Dona  Sol  looked  at  the  bandit  with  more  interest. 

"And  dead  men?"  she  enquired.  "How  many  have 
you  killed?" 

"Lady,  we  will  not  speak  of  that,"  said  the  bandit 
gravely.  "You  would  take  a  dislike  to  me,  and  after 
all  I  am  only  an  unhappy  man,  whom  they  are  trying  to 
trap,  and  who  defends  himself  as  best  he  can." 

There  was  a  long  silence. 

"You  cannot  imagine  how  I  live,  Senora  Marques^/ 
he  went  on.  "The  wild  beasts  are  better  off  than  I  am, 
I  sleep  where  I  can,  or  not  at  all.  I  rise  on  one  side 
of  the  province  and  lie  down  to  rest  on  the  other.  I 
have  to  keep  my  eyes  well  open  and  a  heavy  hand,  so 
that  they  may  respect  me  and  not  sell  me.  The  poor 
are  good,  but  poverty  is  a  thing  that  turns  the  best  bad. 
If  they  had  not  been  afraid  of  me  they  would  have  be- 
trayed me  to  the  civil  guards  again  and  again.  I  have 
no  true  friends  but  my  mare  and  this  (touching  his 
carbine).  Now  and  then  I  feel  the  longing  to  see  my 
wife  and  little  ones,  and  I  go  by  night  into  my  village. 
All  the  neighbours  who  see  me  shut  their  eyes.  But 
some  day  this  will  end  badly.  .  .  .  There  are  times 
when  I  am  weary  of  solitude  and  feel  I  must  see  people. 
I  have  thought  for  a  long  time  of  coming  to  La  Rin- 
cona.  'Why  should  I  not  pay  a  visit  to  Sefio  Juan 
Gallardo,  I  who  admire  him  and  who  have  so  often 
clapped  him?'  But  I  have  always  seen  you  with  so 
many  friends,  or  your  wife  and  your  mother  and  the 
children  who  have  been  at  the  farm.    I  know  what  that 


200  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

means.  They  would  have  died  of  fright  at  the  very 
sight  of  Plumitas.  But  now  it  is  different.  When  I 
saw  you  come  with  the  Senora  Marquesa,  I  said  to 
myself :  *Let  us  go  and  salute  these  Sefiores  and  have  a 
chat  with  them.'  " 

And  the  cunning  smile  which  accompanied  these  words 
at  once  established  a  difference  between  the  torero's 
family  and  that  woman,  giving  them  to  understand  that 
Gallardo's  relations  with  Dona  Sol  were  no  secret  to 
him.  In  the  bottom  of  this  rough  peasant's  heart  was 
a  deep  respect  for  legitimate  marriage,  and  he  thought 
himself  free  to  take  greater  liberties  with  the  torero's 
aristocratic  friend  than  with  the  poor  women  who 
formed  his  family. 

Dona  Sol  took  no  notice,  but  she  pressed  the  bandit 
with  questions  as  to  how  he  had  come  to  be  what  he 
was. 

"It  was  injustice,  Senora  Marquesa,  one  of  those  mis- 
fortunes which  fall  upon  us  poor  people.  I  was  one 
of  the  sharpest  in  my  village,  and  the  labourers  always 
put  me  as  spokesman  when  they  had  anything  to  ask 
from  the  rich  people.  I  can  read  and  write,  for  I  be- 
came sacristan  when  I  was  quite  a  boy,  and  I  gained  my 
name  of  Plumitas  from  running  after  the  hens  and 
plucking  out  their  tail  feathers  for  pens." 

A  thump  from  Potaje  interrupted  him. 

"Compare,  I  had  already  thought  since  I  saw  yotl 
that  you  were  a  church  rat,  or  something  similar." 

El  Nacional  was  silent,  without  daring  to  remark  on 
these  confidences,  but  he  smiled  slightly.  A  sacristan 
turned  into  a  bandit !  What  would  Don  Joselito  say 
when  he  told  him  this! 

"I  married  my  wife  and  our  first  child  was  bom. 
One  night  two  civil  guards  came  to  our  house,  and 
carried  me  out  of  the  village,  to  the  threshing  floors. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  201 

Some  one  had  fired  some  shots  at  the  door  of  a  rich 
man,  and  those  good  gentlemen  made  up  their  minds 
it  was  I.  I  denied  it  and  they  beat  me  ■'vith  their  car- 
bines. I  denied  it  again,  and  again  they  beat  me.  To 
cut  it  short,  till  dawn  they  beat  me  all  over  the  body, 
sometimes  with  the  ramrods,  sometimes  with  the  butt- 
ends,  till  they  got  tired  and  I  became  unconscious.  They 
had  tied  both  my  hands  and  my  feet,  and  beat  me  as  if 
I  were  a  bundle,  saying:  'Are  you  not  the  bravest  in 
your  village  ?  Get  up  and  defend  yourself,  let's  see  how 
far  your  fists  can  reach.*  It  was  their  mockery  I  felt 
the  most.  My  poor  wife  cured  me  as  best  she  could, 
but  I  could  not  rest,  I  could  not  live  remembering  the 
blows  and  the  mockery.  ...  To  cut  it  short  again :  one 
day  one  of  those  civil  guards  was  found  dead  on  the 
threshing  floor,  and  I,  to  save  myself  annoyance,  fled  to 
the  mountains  .  .  .  and  up  to  now  .  ,  ." 

"Gacho,  you  did  well,"  said  Potaje  admiringly.  '*And 
the  other  one?" 

"I  know  not;  I  think  he  must  still  be  alive.  He  fled 
from  the  village;  with  all  his  valour  he  begged  to  be 
removed,  but  I  have  not  forgotten  him.  Some  day  I 
shall  settle  with  him.  Sometimes  I  am  toH  he  is  at 
the  other  end  of  Spain,  and  there  I  go.  I  would  go 
if  it  were  to  hell  itself.  I  leave  the  mare  and  the  car- 
bine with  some  friend  to  keep  for  me  and  I  take  the 
train  like  a  gentleman.  I  have  been  In  Barcelona,  in 
Valladolid,  in  many  other  places.  I  stand  near  the 
prison  and  watch  the  civil  guards  who  go  in  and  out. 
'This  is  not  my  man,  neither  is  this  one.'  M/  inform- 
ants must  have  been  mistaken,  but  it  does  n-ot  signify. 
I  have  searched  for  him  for  years  and  some  day  I  shall 
meet  him — ^unless  he  be  dead,  which  would  be  a  real 

pity." 

Dona    Sol    followed    this    story    with    great    interest. 


202  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

What  an  original  figure  was  Plumitas!  She  had  been 
mistaken  in  thinking  him  a  rabbit. 

The  bandit  was  silent.  He  frowned  as  though  he  was 
afraid  of  having  said  too  much,  and  wished  to  avoid 
further  confidences. 

"With  your  permission,"  he  said  to  the  espada.  "I 
will  go  to  the  stables  and  see  how  they  are  treating  the 
mare.  Are  you  coming,  comrade?  .  .  .  You  will  see 
something  good." 

Potaje  accepting  the  invitation,  they  left  the  kitchen 
together. 

When  the  lady  and  the  torero  were  left  alone  his  ill 
humour  broke  out.  Why  had  she  come  down?  It  was 
imprudent  to  show  herself  to  a  man  like  that:  a  bandit 
whose  name  was  the  terror  of  every  one. 

But  Dona  Sol,  delighted  with  the  good  luck  of  the 
meeting,  laughed  at  the  espada's  fears.  The  bandit 
seemed  a  good  sort  of  fellow,  an  unfortunate  man  whose 
evil  deeds  were  exaggerated  by  the  popular  imagina- 
tion. 

"I  had  fancied  him  different,  but  in  any  case  I  am  de- 
lighted to  have  seen  him.  We  will  give  him  some  alms 
when  he  goes.  What  an  original  country  this  is !  What 
types!  .  .  .  And  how  interesting  his  chase  after  that 
civil  guard  all  over  Spain !  .  .  .  With  this  material 
one  might  write  a  most  delightful  feuilleton." 

The  farm  women  were  taking  the  great  frying-pans 
off  the  fire,  which  spread  the  most  excellent  smell  of 
pork  sausages. 

"To  breakfast,  caballeros!"  shouted  el  Nacional,  who 
took  upon  himself  the  functions  of  majordomo,  when 
he  was  at  the  matador's  farm. 

In  the  centre  of  the  kitchen  stood  a  large  table  spread 
with  cloths,  round  loaves  and  bottles  of  wine.  Potaje 
and  Plumitas  arrived  at  the  summons,  and  various  em- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  203 

ployes  of  the  farm,  the  steward,  the  overseer,  and  all 
those  fulfilling  the  more  confidential  functions.  They 
proceeded  to  sit  down  on  two  benches  placed  alongside 
the  table,  while  Gallardo  looked  undecidedly  at  Dona 
Sol.  She  ought  to  breakfast  upstairs  in  the  family's 
rooms.  But  the  lady,  laughing  at  this  invitation,  sat 
down  at  the  head  of  the  table.  She  enjoyed  this  rustic 
life,  and  she  thought  it  very  interesting  to  breakfast 
with  these  people.  She  had  been  born  for  a  soldier. 
With  masculine  free  and  easiness  she  made  the  espada 
sit  down,  sniffing  the  delicious  smell  of  the  sausages  with 
her  pretty  nose.  What  a  delicious  meal.  How  hungry 
she  was! 

"This  is  all  right,"  said  Plumltas  sententlously,  as  he 
looked  at  the  table.  "The  masters  and  the  servants 
eating  together,  as  they  are  said  to  have  done  in  ancient 
times.     But  this  is  the  first  time  I  have  seen  it." 

He  sat  down  by  the  picador,  still  holding  his  carbine, 
which  he  placed  between  his  knees. 

"Get  along  further  up,  my  lad,"  said  he,  pushing 
Potaje  with  his  body. 

The  picador,  who  treated  him  with  rough  comrade- 
ship, replied  by  another  push,  and  the  two  men  laughed 
as  they  pushed  each  other,  amusing  the  whole  table  with 
their  rough  horseplay. 

"But  curse  you!"  said  the  picador.  "Put  your  gun 
away  from  between  your  knees.  Don't  you  see  it  is 
pointing  at  me,  and  an  accident  might  happen?" 

Certainly  the  bandit's  carbine,  standing  between  his 
legs,  was  pointing  its  black  muzzle  towards  the  picador. 

"Put  it  down,  man!"  insisted  the  latter.  "Do  you 
want  it  to  eat  with?" 

"It  is  all  right  as  it  is.  There  is  no  fear,"  replied 
the  bandit  shortly,  frowning,  as  if  he  would  not  admit 
of  any  remark  as  to  his  precautions. 


204  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  seized  a  spoon,  took  a  large  piece  of  bread  and 
looked  round  at  the  others,  to  make  sure,  with  his  raral 
courtesy,  if  the  proper  time  for  beginning  had  arrived. 

"Your  health,  Senores !"  and  without  more  ado  he 
attacked  the  enormous  dish  which  had  been  placed  in 
the  middle  of  the  table  for  him  and  the  toreros.  An- 
other equally  large  dish  smoked  further  down  for  the 
farm  people. 

He  soon  seemed  ashamed  of  his  voracity,  and  after  a 
few  spoonsful  stopped,  thinking  an  explanation  neces- 
sary. 

"Since  yesterday  morning  I  have  touched  nothing  but 
a  scrap  of  bread  and  a  drop  of  milk  which  they  gave 
me  in  a  shepherd's  hut.    Good  appetite,  gentlemen !".  .  . 

And  he  again  attacked  the  dish,  acknov/ledging 
Potaje's  jests  as  to  his  voracity  by  winking  and  the 
continued  working  of  his  jaws. 

The  picador  wished  to  make  him  drink.  Intimidated 
by  his  master's  presence,  who  was  afraid  of  his  drunk- 
enness, he  looked  anxiously  at  the  flasks  of  wine  placed 
within  reach  of  his  hand. 

"Drink,  Plumitas.  Dry  food  is  bad ;  you  must  wet 
it." 

But  before  the  brigand  could  accept  his  invitation, 
Potaje  drank  and  drank  again  hurriedly.  Plumitas  only 
now  and  then  touched  his  glass,  and  even  then  with 
great  hesitation.  He  was  afraid  of  wine,  and  also  he 
had  lost  the  habit  of  drinking  it.  In  the  country  he 
could  not  always  get  it.  Besides,  wine  was  the  worst 
enemy  for  a  man  like  himself,  who  had  to  live  con- 
stantly wide  awake  and  on  guard. 

"But  you  are  here  among  friends,"  said  the  picador. 
"Think,  Plumitas,  that  you  are  in  Seville,  beneath  the 
very  mantle  of  the  Virgin  de  la  Macarena.  No  one 
would  touch  you  here.     And  if  by  any  unlucky  chance 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  205 

the  civil  guards  did  come,  I  should  place  myself  by 
your  side,  seizing  a  garrocha,  and  we  would  not  leave  one 
of  the  blackguards  alive.  ...  It  would  take  very  little 
to  make  me  a  rider  of  the  mountain!  .  .  .  that  has  al- 
ways attracted  me!'* 

"Potaje!"  .  .  .  roared  the  espada  from  the  other  end 
of  the  table,  fearing  his  loquacity  and  his  propinquity 
to  the  bottles. 

Although  the  bandit  drank  little,  his  face  was  flushed 
and  his  blue  eyes  sparkled  with  pleasure.  He  had 
chosen  his  seat  opposite  the  kitchen  door,  a  place  from 
which  he  enfiladed  the  entrance  of  the  grange,  seeing  also 
part  of  the  lonely  road.  Now  and  again,  a  cow  or  a  pig 
or  a  goat  would  cross  over  the  strip  of  road,  their  sha- 
dows projected  by  the  sun  in  front  of  them.  This  was 
quite  enough  to  startle  Plumitas,  who  would  drop  his 
spoon  and  clutch  his  rifle. 

He  talked  with  his  neighbours  at  tabic  without  ever 
diverting  his  attention  from  outside,  with  the  habit  of 
always  living  ready  at  any  time  for  resistance  or  flight, 
feeling  it  a  point  of  honour  never  to  be  surprised. 

When  he  had  done  eating,  he  accepted  another  glass 
from  Potaje,  the  last,  and  remained  with  his  chin  on 
his  hand  looking  out  silently  and  sleepily. 

Gallardo  offered  him  an  Havana  cigar. 

"Thanks,  Sefio  Juan,  I  do  not  smoke,  but  I  will  keep 
it  for  a  companion  of  mine  who  is  also  out  on  the  moun- 
tain, a  poor  fellow  who  appreciates  a  smoke  even  more 
than  food.  He  is  a  young  fellow  who  had  a  misfortune, 
and  who  now  helps  me  when  there  is  work  for  two." 

He  put  the  cigar  away  under  his  jacket,  and  the  re- 
membrance of  that  companion,  who  at  that  time  was 
certainly  wandering  not  very  far  off,  made  him  smile 
with  ferocious  glee.  The  wine  had  warmed  Plumitas, 
and  his  face  had  become  quite  different.     His  eyes  had 


2o6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

an  alarming  metallic  lustre,  and  his  chubby  face  was 
contracted  by  a  spasm  which  seemed  to  alter  his  usual 
good-natured  expression.  One  could  guess  also  a  desire 
to  talk,  to  boast  of  his  exploits,  to  repay  the  hospitality 
received  by  astonishing  his  benefactors. 

"Have  any  of  you  heard  what  I  did  last  month  on  the 
road  to  Fregenal?  Do  you  really  know  nothing  about 
it?  .  .  .  I  placed  myself  on  the  road  with  my  com- 
panion, because  we  had  to  stop  the  diligence,  and  settle 
with  a  rich  man,  who  remembered  me  every  hour  of  his 
life — an  important  man  that,  accustomed  to  move  al- 
caldes, officials  and  even  civil  guards  at  his  will — what 
they  call  in  the  papers  a  cacique.^  I  had  sent  him  a 
message  asking  for  a  hundred  duros  for  an  emergency, 
which  made  him  write  to  the  Governor  of  Seville,  and 
start  a  scandal  even  in  Madrid,  making  them  persecute 
me  more  than  ever.  Thanks  to  him,  I  had  a  brush  with 
the  civiles,  in  which  I  got  wounded  in  the  leg,  and  not 
content  with  this,  they  put  my  wife  in  prison,  as  if  the 
poor  woman  could  know  her  husband's  doings.  That 
Judas  did  not  dare  to  leave  his  village  for  fear  of  meet- 
ing Plumitas,  but  just  at  that  time  I  disappeared.  I 
went  on  one  of  those  journeys  I  told  you  about,  and 
our  man  gained  confidence  enough  to  go  to  Seville  one 
day  on  business  and  to  set  the  authorities  on  me.  So 
we  waited  for  the  return  coach  from  Seville,  and  the 
coach  arrived.  The  companion,  who  is  a  very  good  hand 
for  anything  on  the  road,  cried  'Halt !'  to  the  driver. 
I  put  my  head  and  my  carbine  in  through  the  doorway. 
There  were  screams  from  the  women,  yells  from  the 
children,  and  the  men,  who  said  nothing,  were  as  white 
as  wax.  I  said  to  the  travellers :  T  have  nothing  to  do 
with  you,  calm  yourselves,  ladies;  your  good  health, 
gentlemen,  and  pleasant  journey.  .  .  .  But  make  tha/" 
*  Wealthy  yeoman  landed  proprietor. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  207 

fat  man  get  out/  And  our  man,  who  had  hidden  him- 
self among  the  women's  petticoats,  had  to  get  out,  as 
pale  as  death,  looking  bloodless,  and  staggering  as  though 
he  were  drunk.  The  coach  drove  off,  and  we  remained 
alone  in  the  middle  of  the  road.  'Listen  here,  I  am  el 
Plumitas,  and  I  am  going  to  give  you  something  to  re- 
member me  by.'  And  I  gave  it.  But  I  did  not  kill  him 
at  once.  I  gave  it  to  him  in  a  certain  place  I  know,  so 
that  he  should  live  twenty-four  hours,  and  that  he  should 
be  able  to  tell  the  civiles  when  they  picked  him  up  that 
it  was  Plumitas  who  had  killed  him,  so  that  there  should 
be  no  mistake  and  no  one  else  should  take  the  credit." 

Dona  Sol  listened,  intensely  pale,  with  her  lips  com- 
pressed by  terror,  and  in  her  eyes  that  strange  light 
which  always  accompanied  her  mysterious  thoughts. 

Gallardo  frowned,  annoyed  by  this  ferocious  story. 

"Every  one  knows  his  own  business,  Seno  Juan/* 
Plumitas  continued,  as  if  he  guessed  the  matador's 
thoughts.  "We  both  live  by  killing;  you  kill  bulls,  I 
kill  men.  The  only  difference  is  that  you  are  rich  and 
carry  off  the  palm  and  the  beautiful  women,  and  I  often 
rage  with  hunger,  and  if  I  am  careless  I  shall  be  riddled 
with  shot,  and  left  in  the  middle  of  a  field  for  the  crows 
to  pick.  But  all  the  same  the  business  does  not  please 
me,  Seno  Juan !  You  know  exactly  where  you  have  to 
strike  the  bull  for  him  to  fall  to  the  ground  at  once. 
I  also  know  exactly  where  to  hit  a  Christian  so  that  he 
shall  die  at  once,  or  that  he  should  last  a  little,  or  that 
he  should  spend  weeks  raging  against  Plumitas,  who 
wishes  to  interfere  with  no  one,  but  who  knows  how  to 
treat  those  who  interfere  with  him." 

Dona  Sol  again  felt  an  intense  desire  to  know  the 
number  of  his  crimes. 

"You  will  feel  repugnance  towards  me,  Sefiora  Mar- 
quesa;  but  after  all  what  does  it  matter?  ...  I  do  not 


2o8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

think  I  can  remember  them  all,  although  I  try  to  recall 
them.  Possibly  they  might  be  thirty-three  or  thirty- 
five.  I  really  could  not  quite  say.  In  this  very  restless 
life,  who  thinks  of  keeping  exact  accounts?  But  I  am 
an  unhappy  man,  Senora  Marquesa,  very  unfortunate 
The  fault  lay  with  those  who  first  harmed  me.  These 
dead  men  are  like  cherries,  if  you  pull  one,  the  others 
come  down  by  dozens.  I  have  to  kill  in  order  to  go  on 
living,  and  if  ever  one  feels  any  pity  one  has  to  swallow 
it." 

There  was  a  long  silence.  The  lady  looked  at  the 
bandit's  coarse  strong  hands,  with  their  broken  nails. 
But  Plumitas  took  no  notice  of  her,  all  his  attention  was 
fixed  on  the  espada,  wishing  to  show  his  gratitude  for 
having  been  received  at  his  table,  and  anxious  to  dispel 
the  impression  that  his  words  seemed  to  have  caused. 

"I  respect  you,  Seiio  Juan,"  he  added.  "Ever  since 
I  saw  you  fight  for  the  first  time,  I  said  to  myself: 
*That  is  a  brave  fellow.*  There  are  many  aficionados 
who  love  you,  but  not  as  I  do!  .  .  .  Just  imagine,  that 
to  see  you  I  have  often  disguised  myself,  and  have  gone 
into  the  tov^^'ns,  exposing  myself  to  the  risk  of  anyone 
laying  hands  on  me.     Isn't  that  love  of  sport?" 

Gallardo  smiled,  nodding  his  head.  He  was  flattered 
now  in  his  artistic  pride. 

"Besides,"  continued  the  bandit,  "no  one  can  say  that 
I  ever  came  to  La  Rincona  even  to  ask  for  a  bit  of  bread. 
Many  a  time  I  have  been  starving,  or  have  wanted  five 
duros  when  I  was  passing  by  here,  but  never  till  to-day 
have  I  passed  through  the  fence  of  your  farm.  I  have 
always  said,  'Sefio  Juan  is  sacred  to  me — he  cams  his 
money  by  risking  his  life  just  as  I  do.'  We  are  in  a 
way  comrades.  Because  you  will  not  deny,  Sefio  Juan, 
that  although  you  are  a  personage,  and  that  I  am  of  the 
very  worst,  still  we  are  equal,  as  we  both  live  by  playing 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  209 

with  death.  Now  we  are  breakfasting  together  quietly, 
but  some  day,  if  God  looses  his  hand  from  us  and 
becomes  tired  of  us,  I  shall  be  picked  up  from  the  side 
of  the  road,  shot  like  a  dog,  and  you  with  all  your  money 
may  be  carried  out  of  the  arena  feet  foremost,  and 
though  the  papers  may  speak  of  your  misfortune  for  a 
month  or  so,  it  is  cursed  little  gratitude  you  will  feel 
towards  them  when  you  are  in  another  world." 

"It  is  true  ...  it  is  true  .  .  ."  said  Gallardo,  sud- 
denly paling  at  the  bandit's  words. 

The  superstitious  terror  that  always  seized  upon  him 
as  the  time  of  danger  approached  was  reflected  in  his 
face.  His  probable  fate  seemed  to  him  just  the  same 
as  that  of  this  terrible  vagabond,  who  must  one  day 
necessarily  succumb  in  his  unequal  strife. 

"But  do  you  believe  that  I  think  of  death?  No,  I 
repent  of  nothing,  and  I  go  on  my  way.  I  also  have 
my  pleasures  and  my  little  prides,  just  the  same  as  you, 
when  you  read  in  the  papers  that  you  did  very  well  with 
a  certain  bull  and  were  given  the  ear.  Just  think  that  all 
Spain  talks  of  el  Plumitas,  that  the  papers  tell  the  big- 
gest lies  about  me,  they  even  say  they  are  going  to  ex- 
hibit me  at  the  theatres,  and  in  that  place  in  Madrid, 
where  the  deputies  meet,  they  talk  daily  of  my  capture. 
Over  and  above  this  I  have  the  pride  of  seeing  a  whole 
army  tracking  my  footsteps,  to  see  myself,  a  man  alone, 
driving  thousands  mad  who  are  paid  by  Government 
and  wear  a  sword.  The  other  day,  a  Sunday,  I  rode  into 
a  village  during  Mass,  and  drew  up  my  mare  in  the 
Plaza  close  to  some  blind  men  who  were  singing  and 
playing  the  guitar.  The  people  were  lost  in  admiration 
before  a  cartoon  carried  by  the  singers,  which  repre- 
sented a  fine  looking  man  with  whiskers,  in  a  pointed  hat, 
splendidly  dressed  and  riding  a  magnificent  horse,  with 
a  gun  across  the  saddle  bow,  and  a  good  lookiog  girl  en 


210  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

croupe  behind.  It  was  a  long  time  before  I  realised 
that  that  good  looking  fellow  was  Plumitas  1  .  .  .  That 
did  please  me.  When  one  goes  about  ragged  and  half 
starving,  it  is  delightful  that  people  should  imagine  you 
something  quite  different.  I  bought  the  paper  they  were 
singing  from.  I  have  got  it  here,  the  complete  life  of 
Plumitas  with  many  lies,  all  in  verse.  But  it  is  a  fine 
thing.  When  I  lie  on  the  hill-side  I  read  it  so  as  to 
learn  it  by  heart.  It  must  have  been  written  by  some 
very  clever  man." 

The  terrible  Plumitas  showed  an  almost  childish  pride 
in  speaking  of  his  fame.  The  modest  silence  with  which 
he  had  entered  the  farm  had  vanished,  that  desire  that 
they  should  forget  his  personality,  and  see  in  him  only 
a  poor  wayfarer  pressed  by  hunger.  He  warmed  at  the 
thought  that  his  name  was  famous,  and  tliat  his  deeds 
received  at  once  the  honours  of  publicity. 

"Who  would  have  known  me,"  he  continued,  "had  I 
gone  on  living  in  my  village?  ...  I  have  thought  a 
great  deal  about  that.  For  us  of  the  lower  orders,  noth- 
ing is  open  but  to  eat  one's  heart  out  working  for  others, 
or  to  follow  the  only  career  which  gives  fame  and  money 
— killing,  I  should  be  no  good  at  killing  bulls.  My  vil- 
lage is  in  the  mountains  where  there  are  no  fierce  cattle. 
Besides,  I  am  heavy,  and  not  very  clever  .  .  .  So  .  .  . 
I  kill  people.  It  is  the  best  thing  a  poor  man  can  do  to 
make  himself  respected  and  open  a  way  for  himself." 

El  Nacional,  who  up  to  now  had  been  gravely  listen- 
ing to  the  bandit,  thought  it  necessary  to  intervene. 

"What  a  poor  man  wants  is  education — to  know  how 
to  read  and  write." 

This  was  greeted  with  shouts  of  laughter  by  all  who 
knew  el  Nacional's  mania. 

"Now  you  have  given  us  your  ideas,  comrade,"  said 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  211 

Potaje,  "let  Plumitas  go  on  with  his  stories;  what  he  is 
telling  us  is  capital." 

The  bandit  received  the  banderillero's  remarks  con- 
temptuously, indeed  he  thought  very  little  of  him  owing 
to  his  prudence  in  the  circus. 

"I  know  how  to  read  and  write.  And  what  good  has 
it  done  me?  When  I  lived  in  my  village  it  was  useful 
to  get  me  noticed  and  to  make  life  seem  a  little  less 
ihard  .  .  .  What  a  poor  man  wants  is  justice;  that  he 
anay  have  his  rights,  but  if  they  are  not  given  then  let  him 
take  them.  One  must  be  a  wolf  and  spread  fear.  The 
other  wolves  will  respect  you,  and  the  herds  will  let 
themselves  be  devoured  with  pleasure.  If  they  find  you 
cowardly  and  without  strength  even  the  sheep  will  spit 
t>n  you." 

Potaje,  who  was  now  very  drunk,  assented  delight- 
edly. He  did  not  exactly  understand,  still  through  the 
■tnists  of  drink  he  seemed  to  perceive  the  brilliancy  of 
3upreme  wisdom. 

"That  is  true,  comrade.    Go  on ;  capital." 

*T  have  seen  what  the  world  is,"  continued  the  bandit. 
"The  world  is  divided  into  two  classes — the  shorn  and 
the  shearers.  I  do  not  wish  to  be  shorn.  I  was  born  to 
be  a  shearer,  because  I  am  a  man  who  fears  nothing. 
The  same  thing  has  happened  to  you,  Seno  Juan.  By 
struggling  we  have  risen  from  the  low  herd,  but  your 
path  is  better  than  mine." 

He  was  silent  for  some  time,  considering  the  espada. 
At  last  he  went  on  in  a  tone  of  conviction : 

"I  believe,  Seno  Juan,  that  we  have  come  into  the 
world  too  late.  What  things  men  of  valour  and  enter- 
prise, like  ourselves,  might  have  done  in  former  days! 
Vou  would  not  have  been  killing  bulls,  neither  should  I 
^e  wandering  over  the  country  hunted  like  a  wild  beast. 


212  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

We  might  have  been  viceroys,  archipampanos,^  or  some- 
thing great  across  the  seas.  Have  you  never  heard  of 
Pizarro,  Sefio  Juan?" 

Sefior  Juan  made  an  indefinable  gesture,  as  he  did 
not  wish  to  admit  his  ignorance  of  this  name  which  he 
now  heard  for  the  first  time. 

"The  Sefiora  Marquesa  knows  all  about  him ;  I  learnt 
his  history  when  I  was  a  sacristan,  and  read  the  old 
romances  that  the  priest  had.  Well,  Pizarro  was  a  poor 
man  like  us,  who  crossed  the  sea  with  twelve  or  thirteen 
gachos,  as  good  fighters  as  himself,  and  entered  a  country 
that  must  have  been  a  real  paradise,  a  country  in  which 
were  the  mines  of  Potosi :  I  can't  say  more.  They  fought 
many  battles  with  the  inhabitants,  and  at  last  conquered 
them,  seizing  their  king's  treasures,  and  he  who  got  least 
got  his  house  full  up  to  the  roof  with  gold  pieces,  and 
there  was  not  one  of  them  who  was  not  made  a  Marquis, 
or  a  General,  or  a  Justiciary.  Just  imagine,  Sefio  Juan, 
if  we  had  lived  then !  What  you  and  I  could  have  done 
with  a  handful  of  brave  men  like  these  who  are  listening 
to  me!" 

The  farm  men  listened  in  silence,  but  their  eyes  flashed 
as  the  bandit  spoke. 

*T  repeat,  we  have  been  born  too  late,  Sefio  Juan. 
The  gates  are  closed  to  poor  men,  the  Spaniard  does  not 
now  know  where  to  go  or  what  to  do.  All  the  places 
where  he  might  have  spread  have  been  appropriated  by 
the  English  or  other  countries.  I,  who  might  have  been 
a  king  in  America  or  elsewhere,  am  proclaimed  an  out- 
law, and  they  even  call  me  a  thief.  You,  who  are  a 
brave  man,  kill  bulls  and  carry  off  the  palms,  still  I 
know  many  who  look  upon  a  torero's  profession  as  a 
low  one." 

Doiia  Sol  interrupted  to  ask  the  bandit  why  he  did  not 
*  Word  used  to  express  an  imaginary  dignity. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  213 

become  a  soldier.  He  could  go  to  distant  countries 
where  there  were  wars  and  utilize  his  talents  nobly. 

"I  might  have  done  so,  Sefiora  Marquesa.  I  have 
often  thought  of  it.  But  when  I  sleep  at  a  farm,  or 
hide  in  my  house  for  a  few  days,  the  first  time  I  lie 
in  a  bed  like  a  Christian,  or  have  a  hot  meal  at  a  table 
like  this,  a  feeling  of  comfort  pervades  my  body,  but 
in  a  short  time  I  get  restless;  it  seems  as  if  the  moun^ 
tain,  with  all  its  miseries,  draws  me,  and  I  long  once 
more  to  sleep  on  the  ground,  wrapped  in  my  blanket 
with  a  stone  for  my  pillow  .  .  .  Yes,  I  might  have  been 
a  soldier,  and  I  should  have  been  a  good  one.  But  where 
to  go?  Besides,  the  same  things  happen  over  again  in 
the  army  as  in  the  world — the  shorn  and  the  shearers. 
You  do  some  great  thing  and  the  Colonel  appropriates  it, 
or  you  fight  like  a  wild  beast  and  the  General  is  re- 
warded .  .  .  No,  I  have  been  bom  too  late  to  be  a 
soldier." 

Plumitas  remained  some  time  silent  with  lowered 
eyes,  as  if  he  were  absorbed  in  the  mental  contemplation 
of  his  misfortune,  at  finding  no  place  for  himself  in  the 
present  age. 

Suddenly  he  stood  up  grasping  his  carbine. 

"I  am  going  .  .  .  Many  thanks,  Seno  Juan,  for  your 
kindness.     Good-bye,  Sefiora  Marquesa." 

"But  where  are  you  going?"  said  Potaje,  catching 
hold  of  him.  "Sit  down.  You  are  better  here  than 
anywhere  else." 

The  picador  wanted  to  prolong  the  bandit's  stay,  de- 
lighted to  think  he  should  be  able  to  describe  this  inter- 
esting meeting  in  the  town. 

"I  have  been  here  three  hours,  and  I  must  go.  I  never 
spend  so  long  a  time  in  so  open  and  unconcealed  a  place 
as  La  Rinconada.  Possibly  by  now  some  one  has  carried 
the  news  that  I  am  here." 


214  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"Are  you  afraid  of  the  civiles,"  enquired  Potaje. 
"They  will  not  come,  or  if  they  do,  I  am  at  your  side." 

Plumitas  made  a  contemptuous  gesture.  The  civiles! 
They  are  men  like  any  others:  some  of  them  brave 
enough,  but  they  are  all  fathers  of  familes,  and  w^ould 
manage  not  to  see  him.  They  only  came  out  against  him 
when  chance  brought  them  face  to  face,  and  there  was 
no  means  of  avoiding  it. 

"Last  month  I  was  at  the  farm  of  *the  five  chimnies* 
breaking  fast  as  I  am  here  to-day,  though  not  in  such 
good  company,  when  I  saw  six  civiles  on  foot  coming. 
I  am  quite  sure  they  did  not  know  I  was  there,  and  only 
came  for  refreshment.  It  was  an  unlucky  chance,  for 
neither  they  nor  I  could  turn  tail  in  the  presence  of  all 
the  farm  people.  The  owner  locked  the  gates,  and  the 
civiles  began  to  knock  for  them  to  be  opened.  I  ordered 
him  and  a  shepherd  to  stand  by  the  two  leaves  of  the 
door.  *When  I  say  "now"  open  them  wide.'  I  mounted 
my  mare,  with  my  revolver  in  my  hand.  *Now!'  The 
door  was  opened  wide,  and  I  galloped  out  like  the  devil. 
They  fired  two  or  three  shots,  but  did  not  touch  me.  I 
also  fired  as  I  went  out,  and  I  understand  wounded  two 
of  the  civiles  ...  To  cut  it  short,  I  fled  lying  on  the 
mare's  neck,  so  that  they  should  not  make  a  target  of 
me,  and  the  civiles  revenged  themselves  by  thrashing 
the  farm  servants ;  for  which  reason,  Seno  Juan,  it  is 
best  to  say  nothing  about  my  visits.  For  if  you  do,  down 
come  the  three  cornered  hats,  sickening  you  with  en- 
quiries and  declarations,  as  if  they  were  going  to  catch 
me  with  those." 

Those  of  La  Rinconada  assented  mutely.  They  knew 
it  well  enough.  They  must  hold  their  tongues  to  avoid 
annoyances,  as  they  did  in  all  the  other  farms  or  shep- 
herd's ranches.  This  general  silence  was  the  bandit's 
most   powerful   auxiliary.      Besides,   all   these   country 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  215 

peasants  were  admirers  of  Plumltas,  looking  on  him  as 
an  avenging  hero.  They  need  fear  no  harm  from  him. 
His  menaces  only  touched  the  rich. 

"I  am  not  afraid  of  the  civiles,"  continued  the  bandit. 
**Those  I  fear  are  the  poor.  The  poor  are  good,  but 
poverty  is  such  an  ugly  thing!  I  know  that  those  three 
cornered  hats  will  not  kill  me:  they  have  no  balls  that 
can  touch  me.  If  anyone  kills  me,  it  will  be  one  of  the 
poor.  I  let  them  approach  without  fear  because  they 
belong  to  my  own  class,  but  some  day  advantage  will  be 
taken  of  my  carelessness.  I  have  enemies,  people  who 
have  sworn  vengeance  on  me ;  for  one  must  have  a  heavy 
hand,  if  one  would  be  respected.  If  one  kills  a  man 
outright  his  family  remain  to  avenge  him,  but  if  one  ia 
good  natured  and  contents  oneself  with  taking  down  his 
trousers  and  caressing  him  with  a  bunch  of  nettles  and 
thistles  he  remembers  the  jest  all  his  life.  ...  It  is  the 
poor,  those  of  my  own  class  that  I  fear;  besides,  in  every 
village  there  is  some  fine  fellow  who  thinks  he  would 
like  to  be  my  heir — and  hopes  to  find  me  some  day  sleep- 
ing in  the  shade  of  a  tree,  and  will  blow  off  my  head 
point  blank." 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  later  Plumitas  came  out  of  the 
stable  into  the  courtyard  mounted  on  his  powerful  mare, 
the  inseparable  companion  of  his  wanderings.  The  bony 
animal  looked  bigger  and  brighter  for  her  brief  hours  of 
plenty  in  the  Rinconada  mangers. 

Plumitas  caressed  her  flanks,  pausing  as  he  arranged 
his  blanket  on  the  saddle-bow.  She  might  indeed  be 
content.  She  would  not  often  be  so  well  treated  as  at 
Senor  Juan  Gallardo's  farm.  And  now  she  must  carry 
herself  well,  for  the  day  would  be  long. 

"And  whither  are  you  going,  comrade  ?"  asked  Potaje. 

"Don't  ask  me — throughout  the  world!  I  myself  do 
not  know.    Where  anything  turns  up!'* 


2i6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

And  putting  a  foot  in  his  rusty  and  muddy  stirrup 
with  one  bound  he  sat  erect  in  his  saddle. 

Gallardo  left  Dona  Sol's  side,  who  was  watching  the 
bandit's  preparations  for  departure  with  strange  eyes, 
her  lips  pale  and  drawn. 

The  torero  searched  in  the  inside  pocket  of  his  coat, 
and  advancing  towards  the  rider  offered  him  shame- 
facedly some  crumpled  papers  that  he  held  in  his  hand. 

"What  is  this?"  said  the  bandit.  "Money?  .  .  . 
Thanks,  Seno  Juan.  Some  one  has  told  you  that  it  is 
necessary  to  give  me  something  when  I  come  to  a  farm ; 
but  that  is  for  those  others,  the  rich,  whose  money  grows 
like  the  roses.  You  earn  yours  by  risking  your  life. 
We  are  companions.     Keep  it  yourself,  Seno  Juan." 

Senor  Juan  kept  his  bank  notes,  though  rather  an- 
noyed by  the  bandit's  refusal,  and  his  persistence  in 
treating  him  as  a  comrade. 

"You  shall  pledge  ^  me  a  bull  some  time  or  other  when 
we  see  each  other  in  a  Plaza.  That  would  be  worth 
more  than  all  the  gold  in  the  world." 

Dona  Sol  now  came  forward  till  she  was  quite  close 
to  the  rider's  foot,  and  taking  from  her  breast  an  autumn 
rose,  she  offered  it  silently,  looking  at  him  with  her 
green  and  golden  eyes. 

*Ts  this  for  me?"  said  the  bandit  surprised  and  won- 
dering.    "For  me,  Senora  Marquesa?" 

As  she  nodded  her  head,  he  took  the  flower  shyly, 
handling  it  awkwardly,  as  if  its  weight  were  overpower- 
ing, not  knowing  where  to  place  it,  till  at  last  he  passed 
it  through  a  button-hole  in  his  jacket,  between  the  two 
ends  of  the  red  handkerchief  he  wore  tied  round  his 
neck. 

"This  is  good,  indeed !"  his  broad  face  expanding  irt^ 
^"Brindar" — to  pledge  or  dedicate. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  217 

a  smile.  "Nothing  of  the  sort  has  ever  happened  to 
me  before  in  my  life." 

The  rough  rider  seemed  moved  and  troubled  by  the 
womanliness  of  the  gift.    Roses  for  him!  .  .  . 

He  gathered  up  his  reins. 

"Good-bye  to  you  all,  caballeros.  Till  we  meet 
again.  .  .  .  Good-bye,  my  fine  fellows.  Some  time  or 
other  I  will  throw  you  a  cigar  if  you  plant  a  good  lance." 

He  gave  a  rough  clasp  of  the  hand  to  the  picador,  who 
replied  by  a  thump  on  the  thigh  which  made  the  bandit^s 
vigorous  muscles  jump.  That  Plumitas,  how  "simpatico" 
he  was !  Potaje,  in  his  drunken  tenderness,  would  have 
liked  to  go  with  him  to  the  mountain. 

"Adio!    Adio!" 

And  spurring  his  horse,  he  rode  out  of  the  courtyard. 

Gallardo  seemed  relieved  on  seeing  him  depart.  He 
turned  towards  Dona  Sol;  she  was  standing  motionless, 
following  the  rider  with  her  eyes  as  he  grew  smaller  and 
smaller  in  the  distance. 

"What  a  woman!"  murmured  the  espada  sadly. 
•'What  a  woman!" 

It  was  fortunate  that  Plumitas  was  ugly  and  was  dirty 
and  ragged  as  a  vagabond. 

Otherwise,  she  would  have  gone  with  him. 


CHAPTER  VI 

"It  seems  impossible,  Sebastian,  that  a  man  like  yoti, 
with  a  wife  and  children,  should  have  lent  yourself  to 
this  debauchery.  ...  I  who  believed  you  so  different 
and  who  had  such  confidence  in  you  when  you  went  on 
journeys  with  Juan!  I  who  felt  quite  at  ease  thinking 
that  he  went  with  a  man  of  good  character!  Where  is 
all  your  talk  about  your  ideas  and  your  religion  ?  Is  this 
what  you  learn  at  the  meeting  of  Jews  in  the  house  of 
Don  Joselito,  the  teacher?" 

El  Nacional,  terrified  by  the  indignation  of  Gallardo's 
mother,  and  touched  by  the  tears  of  Carmen,  who  was 
silently  weeping,  her  face  hidden  behind  a  handkerchief, 
defended  himself  feebly. 

"Sena  Angustias,  do  not  touch  my  ideas;  and  if  you 
please,  leave  Don  Joselito  in  peace,  as  he  has  nothing 
whatever  to  do  with  this.  By  the  life  of  the  blue  dove ! 
I  went  to  La  Rincona  because  my  master  ordered  me. 
You  know  well  enough  what  a  cuadrilla  is.  It  is  just 
the  same  as  an  army,  discipline  and  obedience.  The 
matador  orders,  and  we  have  to  obey.  As  all  this  about 
the  bulls  dates  from  the  time  of  the  Inquisiton,  there  is 
no  profession  more  reactionary." 

"Imposter!"  screamed  Sefiora  Angustias,  "you  are 
fint  with  all  these  fables  about  the  Inquisition  and  re- 
action !  Between  you  all  you  are  killing  this  poor  child, 
who  spends  her  days  weeping  like  la  Dolorosa.  What 
you  want  to  do  is  to  hide  my  son's  debauchery  because 
he  feeds  you." 

218 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  219 

"You  have  said  it,  Sena  Angustias.  Juaniyo  feeds 
me;  so  it  is.  And  as  he  feeds  me,  I  must  obey  him.  .  .  . 
But  look  here,  Senora,  put  yourself  in  my  place.  If  my 
matador  tells  me  I  am  to  go  to  La  Rincona  ...  all  right. 
If  at  the  time  of  our  departure  I  find  a  very  pretty 
woman  in  the  automobile !  .  .  .  what  am  I  to  do  ?  The 
matador  orders.  Besides,  I  did  not  go  alone;  Potaje 
also  went,  and  he  is  a  person  of  a  certain  age  and  re- 
spectability, even  though  he  is  rough;  but  he  never 
laughs." 

The  torero's  mother  was  furious  at  this  excuse. 

"Potaje !  A  bad  man,  whom  Juaniyo  would  not  have 
in  his  cuadrilla  if  he  had  any  shame.  Don't  speak  to 
me  of  that  drunkard,  who  beats  his  wife,  and  starves  his 
children." 

"All  right ;  we'll  leave  Potaje  out.  I  say,  when  I  saw 
that  great  lady,  what  was  I  to  do?  She  is  the  Marquis' 
niece,  and  you  know  that  toreros  have  to  stand  well  with 
people  of  rank  if  they  can.  They  have  to  live  on  the 
public.  And  what  harm  was  there?  And  then  at  the 
farm  there  was  nothing.  I  swear  it  by  my  own.  Do  you 
think  I  should  have  countenanced  this  dishonour,  even 
if  my  matador  had  ordered  me?  I  am  a  decent  man, 
Sena  Angustias,  and  you  do  wrong  to  call  me  the  bad 
names  you  did  just  now.  I  repeat  there  was  nothing. 
They  spoke  to  each  other  just  as  you  and  I  do ;  there  was 
not  an  evil  look  or  word,  each  spent  the  night  on  their 
own  side;  there  was  decency  at  all  times,  and  if  you 
wish  for  Potaje  to  come,  he  will  tell  you.  .  .  ." 

But  Carmen  interrupted  in  a  tearful  voice  cut  by 
sobs. 

"In  my  house !"  she  said  with  a  dazed  expression.  "At 
the  farm!  And  she  slept  in  my  bed!  ...  I  knew  it 
all,  too,  and  I  held  my  tongue,  I  held  my  tongue !    But 


220  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

this !  Jesus !  This.  There  is  not  a  man  in  Seville 
who  would  have  dared  so  much !" 

El  Nacional  interposed  kindly. 

"Calm  yourself,  Sefiora  Carmen.  It  certainly  is  of  no 
importance.  Only  the  visit  of  a  lady  to  the  farm,  who 
is  enthusiastic  about  the  maestro  and  wished  to  see  how 
he  lived  in  the  countr}'.  These  ladies  who  are  half 
foreign  are  very  capricious  and  strange !  But  if  you 
had  only  seen  the  French  ladies,  when  the  cuadrilla  went 
to  fight  at  Nimes  and  Aries !  .  .  .  The  sum  total  is — 
nothing  at  all.  Altogether — rubbish!  By  the  blue  dove, 
I  should  like  to  know  the  babbler  who  brought  the  gos- 
sip. If  I  were  Juaniyo,  if  it  were  anyone  belonging  to 
the  farm,  I  should  turn  him  out,  and  if  it  were  anyone 
outside  I  would  have  him  up  before  the  judge  and  put 
in  prison  as  a  calumniator  and  an  enemy." 

Carmen  still  wept  as  she  listened  to  the  banderillero's 
indignation.  But  Seiiora  Angustias  seated  in  an  arm- 
chair, which  scarcely  contained  her  overflowing  person, 
frowned,  and  pursed  up  her  hairy  and  wrinkled  mouth. 

"Hold  your  tongue,  Sebastian,  and  don't  tell  lies," 
cried  the  old  woman.  "That  journey  to  the  farm  was 
an  indecent  orgy — a  fiesta  of  gipsies.  They  even  say 
Plumitas,  the  brigand,  was  with  you." 

El  Nacional  fairly  jumped  with  surprise  and  anxiety. 
He  thought  he  saw,  coming  into  the  patio,  trampling  the 
marble  pavement,  a  rider,  dirt}',  ragged,  with  a  greasy 
sombrero,  who  got  oflf  his  horse,  and  pointed  his  rifle 
at  him  as  a  coward  and  informer.  And  immediately 
after  him  followed  many  civil  guards  in  shining  three- 
cornered  hats,  whiskered  and  enquiring,  writing  down 
notes,  and  then  all  the  caudrilla  in  their  gala  dresses, 
roped  together  on  their  way  to  prison.  Most  certainly 
he  must  deny  it  all  energetically. 

"Rubbish  !    All  rubbish !    What  are  vou  talking  about. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  221 

Plumitas?  There  was  nothing  but  decency.  God  alive  1 
They  will  be  saying  next  that  I,  a  good  citizen,  who  can 
carry  a  hundred  votes  from  my  suburb  to  the  urns,  am 
a  friend  of  Plumitas!'* 

Seiiora  Angustias,  who  was  not  quite  sure  about  this 
last  piece  of  news,  seemed  convinced  by  El  Nacional's 
asseverations.  All  right;  she  would  say  nothing  more 
about  El  Plumitas.  But  as  for  the  other  thing!  The 
journey  to  the  farm  with  that  .  .  .  female !  And  firm 
in  her  mother's  blindness,  which  made  the  responsibility 
for  all  the  espada's  acts  fall  on  his  companions,  she 
continued  pouring  blame  on  El  Nacional. 

*T  shall  tell  your  wife  what  you  are.  Poor  thing, 
working  herself  to  death  in  her  shop  from  dawn  till 
dark,  while  you  go  to  that  orgy  like  a  reprobate.  You 
ought  to  be  ashamed  of  yourself  ...  at  your  age!  and 
with  all  those  brats!" 

The  banderillero  fairly  fled  before  the  wrath  of  Seiiora 
Angustias,  who,  moved  by  her  great  indignation,  de- 
veloped the  same  nimbleness  of  tongue  as  in  the  days 
when  she  was  at  the  tobacco  factor}^  He  vowed  he 
would  never  again  return  to  his  master's  house. 

He  met  Gallardo  in  the  street.  The  latter  seemed  out 
of  temper,  but  pretended  to  be  bright  and  smiling  when 
he  saw  the  banderillero,  as  if  he  were  in  no  way  troubled 
by  his  domestic  dissensions. 

*'A11  this  is  very  bad,  Juaniyo.  I  will  never  return 
to  your  house,  even  if  I  am  dragged  there.  Your 
mother  insults  me,  as  if  I  were  a  gipsy  of  Triana.  Your 
wife  weeps  and  looks  at  me,  as  if  all  the  fault  were 
mine.  Man  alive,  do  me  the  pleasure  not  to  remember 
me  next  time.  Choose  some  other  of  your  associates 
another  time,  if  you  take  ladies." 

Gallardo  smiled,  well  pleased.     It  would  be  nothing 


222  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

at  all,  these  things  passed  off  quickly.  He  had  often 
faced  worse  troubles. 

"What  you  ought  to  do  is  to  come  to  the  house.  When 
there  are  many  people  there,  there  can  be  no  rows." 

"I?"  exclaimed  El  Nacional.    "I  will  be  a  priest  first!" 

After  this  the  espada  thought  it  was  no  use  insisting. 
He  spent  the  greater  part  of  the  day  out  of  the  home, 
away  from  the  women's  morose  silence,  interrupted  by 
floods  of  tears,  and  when  he  returned  it  was  with  an 
escort,  availing  himself  of  his  manager  and  other  friends. 

The  saddler  was  a  great  help  to  Gallardo,  who  for  the 
first  time  began  to  think  his  brother-in-law  "simpatico," 
remarkable  for  his  good  sense,  and  worthy  of  a  better 
fate.  He  it  was  who,  during  the  matador's  absence,  un- 
dertook to  pacify  the  women,  including  his  own  wife, 
leaving  them  like  exhausted  furies. 

"Let  us  see,"  he  said.  "What  is  it  all  about?  A  wo- 
man of  no  importance.  Every  one  is  as  he  is,  and 
Juaniyo  is  a  personage  who  must  mix  with  influential 
people.  And  if  this  lady  did  go  to  the  farm,  what  then? 
One  must  cultivate  good  friendships,  for  in  that  way  one 
can  ask  favours  and  help  on  one's  family.  There  was 
nothing  wrong.  It  was  all  calumny.  El  Nacional  was 
there,  who  is  a  man  of  good  character  ...  I  know  him 
very  well." 

For  the  first  time  in  his  life  he  praised  the  banderillero. 
Being  constantly  in  the  house  he  was  a  valuable  auxil- 
iary to  Gallardo,  and  the  torero  was  not  niggardly  in 
his  gratitude.  The  saddler  had  closed  his  shop,  as 
trade  was  bad,  and  was  waiting  for  some  employment 
through  his  brother-in-law.  In  the  meanwhile  the  torero 
supplied  all  the  wants  of  the  family  and  finally  invited 
them  all  to  take  up  their  quarters  permanently  in  his 
house.  In  this  way  poor  Carmen  would  worry  less,  not 
being  so  much  alone. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  223 

One  day  El  Nacional  received  a  message  from  his 
matador's  wife  that  she  wished  to  see  him.  The  bander- 
illero's  own  wife  delivered  the  message. 

"I  saw  her  this  morning.  She  came  from  San  Gilo 
The  poor  thing*s  eyes  looked  as  though  she  were  con- 
stantly crying.  Go  and  see  her  .  .  .  Ay!  those  hand- 
some men.    What  a  curse  they  are!'* 

Carmen  received  El  Nacional  in  the  matador's  study. 
They  would  be  alone  there,  and  there  would  be  no  fear 
of  Senora  Angustias  coming  in  with  her  vehemence. 
Gallardo  was  at  the  club  in  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes.  He 
was  away  from  the  house  most  days  to  avoid  meeting 
his  wife;  he  even  had  his  meals  out,  going  with  some 
friends  to  the  inn  at  Eritana. 

El  Nacional  sat  on  a  divan,  with  his  head  bent,  twirl- 
ing his  hat  in  his  hands,  scarcely  daring  to  look  at  his 
master's  wife.  How  she  was  altered!  Her  eyes  were 
red  and  surrounded  by  black  hollows.  Her  dark  cheeks 
and  the  end  of  her  nose  were  also  reddened  from  the 
constant  rubbing  of  her  handkerchief. 

"Sebastian,  you  will  tell  me  the  whole  truth.  You  are 
kind,  and  you  are  Juan's  best  friend.  All  the  little 
mother  said  the  other  day  was  temper.  You  know  how 
really  good  she  is.  It  was  only  an  outburst,  over  directly. 
Pay  no  attention  to  it." 

The  banderillero  nodded  assent,  and  then  hazarded 
the  question: 

"What  did  Senora  Carmen  wish  to  know  ?" 

"You  must  tell  me  all  that  happened  at  La  Rincona, 
all  you  saw,  and  all  you  fancied." 

Ah!  Good  Nacional!  With  what  noble  pride  he 
raised  his  head,  pleased  at  being  able  to  do  good,  and 
give  comfort  to  that  unhappy  woman. 

"See?  .  .  ."  He  had  seen  nothing  wrong.  "I  swear  it 
to  you  by  my  father.    I  swear  it  ...  by  my  ideas." 


224  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  supported  his  oath  without  fear  by  the  sacrosanct- 
testimony  of  his  ideas,  for  in  fact  he  had  seen  nothing, 
and  having  seen  nothing,  he  reasoned  logically  in  the 
pride  of  his  perspicuity  and  wisdom,  that  nothing  wrong 
could  have  occurred. 

"I  think  they  are  nothing  more  than  friends  .  .  .  no\^{. 
...  If  there  has  been  anything  before,  I  know  not.  .  .  . 
The  people  here  .  .  .  talk.  They  invent  so  many  lies. 
But  pay  no  attention,  Senora  Carmen.  Live  happily,  that 
is  the  best  thing !" 

But  she  insisted.  What  had  happened  at  the  farm? 
The  grange  was  her  home,  and  she  was  indignant,  as., 
joined  to  the  infidelity,  this  seemed  to  her  a  sacrilege,  a 
direct  insult  to  herself. 

"Do  you  think  me  a  fool,  Sebastian?  I  have  seen  it 
all  along.  From  the  first  moment  he  began  to  think  of 
that  lady  ...  or  whatever  she  is,  I  have  known  what 
Juan  was  thinking.  The  day  he  pledged  the  bull  to  her, 
and  she  gave  him  that  diamond  ring,  I  guessed  what  there 
was  between  the  two,  and  I  should  have  liked  to  snatch 
the  ring  and  trample  on  it.  .  .  .  Very  soon  I  knew 
everything.  Everything !  There  are  always  people  ready 
to  carry  rumours  because  it  hurts  others.  Besides,  they 
have  never  hidden  themselves,  going  everywhere  like 
man  and  wife,  in  the  sight  of  every  one,  on  horseback, 
just  like  gipsies  who  ride  from  fair  to  fair.  When  we 
were  at  the  farm  I  had  news  of  everything  Juan  was 
doing,  and  afterwards  in  San  Lucar  also." 

El  Nacional  interposed,  seeing  Carmen  so  upset,  and 
weeping  at  these  recollections. 

"My  good  woman,  do  you  believe  all  this  humbug? 
Do  you  not  see  they  are  inventions  of  people  who  wish 
you  ill?     All  jealousy,  nothing  more." 

"No,  I  know  Juan.  Do  you  believe  that  this  is  the 
first  ^    He  is  as  he  is.  and  cannot  be  otherwise.    Cursed 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  225 

profession,  which  seems  to  send  men  mad!  After  we 
had  been  married  two  years  he  fell  in  love  with  a  hand- 
some girl  in  the  market,  a  butcher's  daughter.  How  I 
suffered  when  I  knew  it  .  .  .  But  I  never  said  a  word. 
Even  now  he  thinks  I  know  nothing.  Since  then  how 
many  have  there  been?  I  do  not  know  how  many — 
dozens — and  I  held  my  tongue,  wishing  for  peace  in  my 
home.  But  this  woman  is  not  like  the  others,  Juan  is 
mad  about  her;  and  I  know  he  has  lowered  himself  a 
thousand  times,  remembering  that  she  is  a  great  lady, 
so  that  she  should  not  turn  him  out,  being  ashamed  of 
having  relations  with  a  torero.  Now  she  is  gone.  You 
did  not  know  it?  She  is  gone  because  she  was  bored  in 
Seville.  You  see  people  tell  me  everything,  and  she  left 
without  saying  good-bye  to  him.  When  he  went  there 
the  other  day  he  found  the  door  locked=  Now  he  is 
as  wretched  as  a  sick  horse,  he  goes  among  his  friends 
with  a  face  like  a  funeral,  and  drinks  to  enliven  himself. 
No,  he  cannot  forget  that  woman.  He  was  proud  of 
being  loved  by  a  woman  of  that  class,  and  now  he  suf- 
fers in  his  pride  that  he  is  abandoned.  Ay!  what  dis- 
gust I  feel.  He  is  no  longer  my  husband ;  he  seems  like 
some  one  else.  We  scaicely  speak.  I  am  alone  upstairs, 
he  sleeps  downstairs  in  one  of  the  patio  rooms.  Before, 
I  overlooked  everything;  they  were  bad  habits  belonging 
to  the  profession :  the  mania  of  toreros,  who  think  them- 
selves irresistible  to  wom.en  .  .  .  but  now  I  can't  bear 
to  see  him;  I  feel  repugnance  towards  him." 

She  spoke  energetically,  and  a  flame  of  hate  shone  in 
her  eyes. 

"Ay !  that  woman.  How  she  has  changed  him !  .  .  . 
He  is  another  man !  He  only  cares  now  to  go  with  rich 
people;  and  the  people  in  the  suburbs,  and  the  poor  in 
Se/ille,  who  were  his  friends  and  helped  him  when  he 
first  began,  all  complain  of  him ;  some  fine  dav  thev  will 


226  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

start  a  disturbance  against  him  in  the  Plaza  to  disgrace 
him.  Money  comes  in  here  by  bucketsful,  and  it  is  not 
easy  to  count  it.  He  himself  does  not  know  how  much 
he  has,  but  I  see  clearly.  He  plays  heavily,  so  that  his 
new  friends  may  welcome  him ;  and  he  loses  largely ;  the 
money  comes  in  by  one  door  and  goes  out  by  the  other 
But  I  say  nothing.  After  all  it  is  he  that  earns  it.  He 
has  had  to  borrow  from  Don  Jose  for  things  about  the 
farm,  and  some  olive  yards  he  bought  this  year  to  join 
to  the  property  were  bought  with  other  people's  money. 
Almost  all  he  earns  during  the  next  season  will  go  to 
pay  his  debts.  And  if  he  had  an  accident.  If  he  found 
himself  obliged  to  retire  like  others?  He  has  tried  to 
change  me,  as  he  himself  has  changed.  I  know  he  feels 
ashamed  of  us  when  he  returns  from  seeing  Dona  Sol. 
It  is  he  who  has  obliged  me  to  put  on  those  unbecoming 
hats  from  Madrid,  that  make  me  feel  like  a  monkey 
dancing  on  an  organ!  And  a  mantilla  is  so  beautiful! 
He  also  it  is  who  has  bought  that  infernal  car,  in  which 
I  go  in  fear  and  which  smells  like  the  devil.  If  he  could 
he  would  even  put  a  hat  with  a  cock's  tail  on  the  little 
mother's  head !" 

The  banderillero  interrupted.  No,  no,  Juan  was  very 
kind,  and  if  he  did  these  things  it  was  because  he  wished 
his  family  to  have  every  comfort  and  luxury. 

"Juaniyo  may  be  anything  you  will,  Sehora  Carmen, 
but  still  you  must  forgive  him  a  good  deal.  Remember 
that  many  are  envious  of  you!  Is  it  nothing  to  be  the 
wife  of  the  bravest  torero,  with  handfuls  of  money,  a 
house  that  is  a  marvel,  and  to  be  absolute  mistress  of 
everything,  for  the  master  lets  you  dispose  of  all?" 

Carmen's  eyes  were  overflowing,  and  she  raised  her 
handkerchief  to  wipe  away  her  tears. 

"1  would  rather  be  the  wife  of  a  shoemaker.  How 
often  have  I  thought  so!     If  Juan  had  only  gone  on 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  227 

with  his  trade  instead  of  this  cursed  bull-fighting !  How 
much  happier  I  should  be  in  a  poor  shawl  taking  his 
dinner  to  the  doorway  where  he  worked  like  his  father. 
At  least  he  would  be  mine,  and  no  one  would  want  to 
take  him  from  me;  we  might  want  necessities,  but  on 
Sundays,  dressed  in  our  best,  we  should  go  to  breakfast 
at  some  little  inn.  And  then  the  frights  one  has  from 
those  horrid  bulls.  This  is  not  living.  There  is  money, 
a  great  deal  of  money,  but  believe  me,  Sebastian,  it  is 
like  poison  to  me.  The  people  about  think  I  am  happy, 
and  envy  me,  but  my  eyes  follow  the  poor  women  who 
want  everything,  but  who  have  their  child  on  their  arm, 
who  when  they  are  unhappy  look  at  the  little  one  and 
laugh  with  it.  If  only  I  had  one !  If  Juan  could  but  see 
a  little  one  in  the  house  that  would  be  all  his  own,  some- 
thing more  than  the  little  nephews  .  .  ." 

The  banderillero  came  out  from  this  interview  shocked 
and  troubled  and  went  in  search  of  his  master,  whom  he 
found  at  the  door  of  the  "Forty-five." 

"Juan,  I  have  just  seen  your  wife.  Things  are  going 
worse  and  worse.  Try  and  calm  her  and  set  yourself 
right  with  her.'* 

"Curse  it!  life  is  not  worth  living.  Would  to  God  a 
bull  might  catch  me  on  Sunday  and  then  all  would  be 
over!    And  for  what  life  is  worth  .  .  ." 

He  was  rather  tipsy.  The  frowning  silence  he  met  in 
his  house  drove  him  to  desperation,  and  even  perhaps 
more  still  (although  he  would  not  confess  it  to  anyone) 
Dona  Sol's  flight,  without  leaving  a  single  word,  not  even 
a  line  to  bid  him  farewell.  They  had  sent  him  away 
from  the  door  worse  than  a  servant,  and  no  one  knew 
where  that  woman  had  gone.  The  Marquis  was  not 
much  interested  in  his  niece's  journey — a  most  crazy 
woman !  Neither  had  he  been  informed  of  her  intended 
departure;  however,  he  did  not  think  on  that  account 


228  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

that  she  was  lost.  She  would  give  signs  of  existence 
from  some  far  country,  whither  her  caprices  had  driven 
her. 

Gallardo  could  not  conceal  his  despair  in  his  own 
home.  Maddened  by  the  frowning  silence  of  his  wife, 
who  resented  all  his  efforts  at  conversation,  he  would 
break  out : 

"Curse  my  bad  luck  I  Would  to  God  that  on  Sunday 
one  of  those  Muira  bulls  would  catch  me,  trample  me, 
and  then  I  could  be  brought  home  to  you  in  a  basket!" 

"Don't  say  such  things,  evil  one !"  exclaimed  Senora 
Angustias.  "Do  not  tempt  God;  it  will  bring  you  bad 
luck." 

But  the  brother-in-law  interposed  sententiously,  taking 
advantage  of  the  occasion  to  flatter  the  espada. 

"Don't  worry  yourself,  little  mother.  There  is  no 
bull  that  can  touch  him ;  no  horn  that  can  gore  him !" 

The  following  Sunday  was  the  last  corrida  of  the 
year  in  which  Gallardo  was  to  take  part.  The  morning 
passed  without  those  vague  terrors,  and  superstitious 
anxieties  which  usually  assailed  him ;  he  dressed  gaily, 
with  a  nervous  excitability  which  seemed  to  double  the 
strength  of  his  muscles.  What  a  joy  to  tread  again  the 
yellow  sand,  to  astonish  over  twelve  thousand  spectators 
with  his  grace  and  reckless  daring!  Nothing  was  true 
but  his  art,  which  gained  him  the  applause  of  the  popu- 
lace, and  money  like  heaps  of  corn.  Everything  else, 
family  and  amours  were  only  complications  of  life,  serv- 
ing to  create  worries.  Ay !  what  estocades  he  would 
give !  He  felt  the  strength  of  ^  giant :  he  felt  an- 
other man  free  from  fears  and  anxieties.  He  was  even 
impatient  it  was  not  yet  time  to  go  to  the  Plaza,  so  con- 
trary to  other  occasions ;  and  he  longed  to  pour  out  on 
the  bulls  the  concentrated  anger  caused  by  his  domestic 
dissensions  and  Dona  Sol's  insulting  flight. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  229 

When  the  carriage  arrived  Gallardo  crossed  the  patio 
without  encountering  as  heretofore  the  emotion  of  the 
women.  Carmen  did  not  appear.  Bah !  those  women ! 
.  .  .  their  only  use  was  to  embitter  Hfe.  His  brother-in- 
law  was  waiting,  extremely  proud  of  himself  in  a  suit 
of  clothes  that  he  had  filched  from  the  espada,  and  had 
altered  to  his  own  figure. 

"You  are  finer  than  the  real  Roger  de  Flor  himself!" 
said  he  gaily.  "Jump  into  the  coach,  and  I  will  take  you 
to  the  Plaza." 

He  sat  down  beside  the  great  man,  swelling  with  pride 
that  all  Seville  should  see  him  sitting  among  the  torero's 
silk  capes  and  splendid  gold  embroideries. 

The  Plaza  was  crammed.  It  was  an  important  corrida, 
the  last  one  of  the  autumn,  and  consequently  it  had  at- 
tracted an  immense  audience,  not  only  from  the  town 
but  from  the  country.  On  the  benches  of  the  sunny 
side  were  crowds  of  people  from  surrounding  villages. 

From  the  first  Gallardo  showed  a  feverish  activity. 
He  stood  away  from  the  barrier,  going  to  meet  the  bull, 
amusing  it  with  his  cape  play,  while  the  picadors  waited 
for  the  time  when  the  brute  would  turn  on  their  miser- 
able horses. 

A  certain  predisposition  against  the  torero  could  be 
noticed.  He  was  applauded  the  same  as  ever,  but  the 
demonstrations  were  far  warmer  and  more  prolonged  on 
the  shady  side,  from  the  symmetrical  rows  of  white 
hats,  than  from  the  lively  and  motley  sunny  side,  where 
many  stood  in  their  shirt  sleeves  under  the  heat  of  the 
scorching  sun. 

Gallardo  understood  the  danger.  If  he  had  the  least 
bad  luck,  half  the  circus  would  rise  up  against  him 
vociferating  and  reproaching  him  for  his  ingratitude 
towards  those  who  had  first  started  him. 

He  killed  his  first  bull  with  only  moderate  good  for- 


230  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

tune.  He  threw  himself  with  his  usual  audacity  between 
the  horns,  but  the  rapier  struck  on  a  bone.  The  en- 
thusiasts applauded,  because  the  estocade  was  well 
placed,  and  the  inutility  of  the  endeavour  was  no  fault 
of  his.  He  put  himself  again  in  position  to  kill,  but 
again  the  sword  struck  on  the  same  place,  and  the  bull, 
butting  at  the  muleta,  jerked  it  out  of  the  wound,  throw- 
ing it  to  some  distance.  Taking  another  rapier  from 
Garabato's  hand,  he  turned  again  towards  the  beast,  who 
waited  for  him,  firm  on  his  feet,  his  neck  dripping  with 
blood  and  his  slavering  muzzle  almost  on  the  sand. 

The  maestro,  spreading  his  muleta  before  the  brute's 
eyes,  quietly  moved  aside  with  his  sword  the  banderillas 
which  were  falling  across  his  poll.  He  wished  to  execute 
the  "descabello."  ^  Leaning  the  point  of  the  blade  on  the 
top  of  the  head,  he  sought  for  a  suitable  spot  between 
the  two  horns;  he  then  made  an  effort  to  drive  in  the 
rapier,  the  bull  shivered  painfully,  but  still  remained  on 
foot,  and  threw  out  the  steel  with  a  rough  movement  of 
its  head. 

"One !"  shouted  mocking  voices  from  the  sunny  side. 

"Curse  them !  Why  did  the  people  attack  him  so  un- 
justly?" 

Again  the  matador  struck  in  the  steel,  succeeding  this 
time  in  finding  the  vulnerable  spot,  and  the  bull  fell  sud- 
denly with  a  crash,  his  horns  sticking  into  the  sand,  his 
belly  upward  and  his  legs  rigid. 

The  people  on  the  shady  side  applauded  from  a  class 
feeling,  but  from  the  sunny  side  came  a  storm  of  whis- 
tling and  invectives. 

*  The  "descabello"  is  a  coup  de  grace  given  to  a  bull  already- 
pierced  by  a  rapier — the  stroke  consists  in  driving  the  rapier 
straight  down  behind  the  skull  so  as  to  pierce  the  spinal  marrow 
— if  it  is  badly  delivered  the  animal  only  gets  a  slight  wound — 
and  it  is  considered  very  unskilful  and  rouses  the  indignation 
of   the   populace. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  231 

Gallardo,  turning  his  back  to  these  insults,  saluted  his 
partizans  with  the  muleta  and  the  rapier. 

The  insults  of  the  populace,  who  had  up  to  now  been  so 
friendly,  exasperated  him,  and  he  clenched  his  fists. 

What  do  those  people  want  ?  The  bull  did  not  admit  of 
anything  better.  Curse  them!  It  is  got  up  by  my  en- 
emies. 

He  spent  the  greater  part  of  the  corrida  close  to  the 
barrier,  looking  on  disdainfully  at  his  companions'  ac- 
tions, accusing  them  mentally  of  having  promoted  this 
display  of  dissatisfaction,  and  he  launched  maledictions 
against  the  bull  and  the  shepherd  who  reared  him.  He 
had  come  so  well  prepared  to  do  great  things,  and  then 
to  meet  with  a  bull  like  this !  All  the  breeders  who  sent 
in  such  animals  ought  to  be  shot. 

When  he  took  his  killing  weapons  for  his  second  bull, 
he  gave  an  order  to  El  Nacional  and  to  another  peon 
to  bring  the  bull  by  their  cloak  play  to  the  popular  side 
of  the   Plaza. 

He  knew  his  public.  You  must  flatter  those  "citizens 
of  the  sun,"  a  tumultuous  and  terrible  demagogy,  who 
brought  class  hatred  into  the  Plaza,  but  who  would 
change  their  whistling  into  applause  with  the  greatest 
ease,  if  a  slight  show  of  consideration  flattered  their 
pride. 

The  peons,  throwing  their  capes  in  front  of  the  bull, 
endeavoured  to  attract  him  towards  the  sunny  side  of  the 
circus.  The  populace  saw  this  manoeuvre  and  welcomed 
it  with  joyful  surprise.  The  supreme  moment,  the  death 
of  the  bull,  would  be  enacted  under  their  eyes  instead 
of  at  a  distance  for  the  convenience  of  the  wealthy  peo- 
ple on  the  shady  side. 

The  brute,  being  alone  for  a  moment  on  that  side  of 
the  Plaza,  attacked  the  dead  body  of  a  horse.  It  buried 
its  horns  in  the  open  belly,  lifting  on  its  horns  like  a 


232  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

limp  rag  the  miserable  carcass  which  spread  its  entrails 
all  round.  The  body  fell  to  the  ground  almost  doubled 
up,  while  the  bull  moved  off  undecidedly ;  but  it  soon 
turned  again  to  sniff  it,  snorting  and  burying  its  horns 
in  the  cavity  of  the  stomach,  while  the  populace  laughed 
at  this  stupid  obstinacy,  seeking  for  life  in  an  inanimate 
body. 

"Go  it  .  .  .  What  strength  he  has !  ...  Go  on,  son ! 
.  .  .  I'm  looking  at  you  I" 

But  suddenly  the  attention  of  the  audience  was  turned 
from  the  furious  brute  to  watch  Gallardo,  who  was 
crossing  the  Plaza  with  light  step,  bending  his  figure, 
carrying  in  one  hand  the  folded  muleta,  and  balancing 
the  rapier  in  the  other  like  a  light  cane. 

All  the  populace  roared  with  delight  at  the  torero's 
approach. 

"You  have  gained  them,"  said  El  Nacional,  who  had 
placed  himself  with  his  cloak  in  readiness  close  to  the 
bull. 

The  multitude,  clapping  their  hands,  called  the  torero : 
"Here !  here !"  every  one  wishing  to  see  the  bull  killed  in 
front  of  his  own  bench  so  as  not  to  lose  a  single  detail, 
and  the  torero  hesitated  between  the  contradictory  calls 
of  thousands  of  voices. 

With  one  foot  on  the  step  of  the  barrier,  he  was  con- 
sidering the  best  place  to  kill  the  bull.  He  had  better 
take  him  a  little  further  on.  The  torero  felt  embarrassed 
by  the  body  of  the  horse,  whose  miserable  remains 
seemed  to  fill  all  that  side  of  the  arena. 

He  was  turning  to  give  the  order  to  El  Nacional  to 
have  the  body  removed,  when  he  heard  behind  him  a 
voice  he  knew,  and  though  he  could  not  at  once  recall 
to  whom  it  belonged,  it  made  him  turn  round  suddenly. 

"Good  evening,  Seno  Juan !  We  are  going  to  applaud 
'the  truth.* " 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  233 

He  saw  in  the  first  rank,  below  the  rope  of  the  inside 
barrier,  a  jacket  folded  on  the  line  of  the  wall;  on  it 
were  crossed  a  pair  of  arms  in  shirt  sleeves,  on  which 
rested  a  broad  face,  freshly  shaved,  with  the  hat  pulled 
down  to  its  ears.  It  looked  like  a  good-natured  country- 
man come  in  from  his  village  to  see  the  corrida. 

Gallardo  recognized  him ;  it  was  Plumitas. 

He  had  fulfilled  his  promise ;  there  he  was,  auda- 
ciously among  twelve  thousand  people  who  might  recog- 
nise him,  saluting  the  espada,  who  felt  pleased  and 
grateful  for  this  mark  of  confidence. 

Gallardo  was  astounded  at  his  temerity.  To  come 
down  into  Seville,  to  enter  the  Plaza,  far  away  from 
the  mountains,  where  defence  was  so  easy,  without  the 
help  of  his  two  companions,  the  mare  and  the  rifle,  and 
all  to  see  him  kill  bulls!  Truly,  of  the  two,  which  was 
the  braver  man? 

He  thought,  furthermore,  that  in  his  farm  he  was  at 
Plumitas'  mercy,  in  the  country  life  which  was  only  pos- 
sible if  he  kept  on  good  terms  with  that  extraordinary 
person.    Certainly  this  bull  must  be  for  him. 

He  smiled  at  the  bandit,  who  was  placidly  watching 
him.  He  took  off  his  montera,  shouting  towards  the 
heaving  crowd,  but  with  his  eyes  on  Plumitas. 

"This  bull  is  for  your 

He  threw  his  montera  towards  the  benches,  where  a 
hundred  hands  were  outstretched,  fighting  to  catch  the 
sacred  deposit. 

Gallardo  signed  to  El  Nacional,  so  that  with  oppor- 
tune cape  play  he  should  bring  the  bull  towards  him. 

The  espada  spread  his  muleta,  and  the  beast  attacked 
with  a  deep  snort,  passing  under  the  red  rag.  "Ole!" 
roared  the  crowd,  once  more  bewitched  by  their  old 
idol,  and  disposed  to  think  everything  he  did  admirable. 

He  continued  giving  several  passes  to  the  bull,  amid  the 


234  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

exclamations  of  the  people  a  few  steps  from  him,  and 
who  seeing  him  close  were  giving  him  advice.  "Be  care- 
ful, Gallardo!  The  bull  still  has  his  full  strength. 
Don't  get  between  him  and  the  barrier.  Keep  your  re- 
treat open." 

Others  more  enthusiastic  excited  his  audacity  by  more 
daring  advice. 

"Give  him  one  of  your  own!  .  .  .  Zas!  Strike  and 
you  pocket  him !" 

But  the  brute  was  too  big  and  too  mistrustful  to  be 
put  in  anybody's  pocket.  Excited  by  the  proximity  of 
the  dead  horse,  he  constantly  returned  to  it,  as  though 
the  stench  of  the  belly  into::icated  him. 

In  one  of  his  evolutions,  the  bull  fatigued  by  the 
muleta,  stood  motionless.  It  was  a  very  bad  position, 
but  Gallardo  had  come  out  of  worse  corners  victorious. 

He  wanted  to  take  advantage  of  the  brute's  quiescence, 
the  public  incited  him  to  action.  Among  the  men  stand- 
ing by  the  inside  barrier,  leaning  their  bodies  half  over 
it  so  as  not  to  lose  a  single  detail  of  the  supreme  mo- 
ment, he  recognised  many  amateurs  of  the  people,  who 
had  begun  to  turn  from  him,  and  who  were  now  again 
applauding  him,  touched  by  his  show  of  consideration 
for  the  populace. 

"Take  advantage  of  it,  my  lad.  .  .  .  Now  we  shall  see 
the  truth.  .  .  .  Strike  truly." 

Gallardo  turned  his  head  slightly  to  salute  Plumitas, 
who  stood  smiling,  with  his  moon  face  leaning  on  his 
arms  over  the  jacket. 

"For  you,  comrade !"  .  .  . 

And  he  placed  himself  in  profile  with  the  rapier  in 
front  in  position  to  kill,  but  at  the  same  instant  he 
thought  that  the  ground  was  trembling  beneath  him,  that 
he  was  flung  to  a  great  distance,  that  the  Plaza  was 
falling  down  on  him,  that  everything  was  turning  to 


i 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  235 

deep  blackness,  and  that  a  furious  hurricane  was  raging 
round  him.  His  body  vibrated  painfully  from  head  to 
foot,  his  head  seemed  bursting,  and  a  mortal  agony 
wrung  his  chest;  then  he  seemed  falling  into  dark  and 
endless  space,  plunging  into  nothingness. 

At  the  very  moment  that  he  was  preparing  to  strike, 
the  bull  had  reared  unexpectedly  against  him,  attracted 
by  his  *'querencia"  for  the  horse  which  was  behind  him. 

It  was  a  terrific  shock,  which  made  the  silk  and  gold 
clad  man  roll  and  disappear  beneath  the  hoofs.  The 
horns  did  not  gore  him,  but  the  blow  was  horrible,  crush- 
ing, as  head,  horns,  and  all  the  frontal  of  the  brute 
crashed  down  on  the  man  like  a  blow  from  a  club. 

The  bull,  who  only  saw  the  horse,  was  going  to  charge 
it  again,  but  feeling  some  obstacle  between  his  hoofs,  he 
turned  to  attack  the  brilliant  figure  lying  on  the  ground, 
lifted  it  on  one  horn,  shaking  it  for  a  few  seconds,  and 
then  flinging  it  away  to  some  distance ;  again  a  third  time 
it  turned  to  attack  the  insensible  torero. 

The  crowd,  bewildered  by  the  quickness  of  these 
events,  remained  silent,  their  hearts  tightened.  The  bull 
would  kill  him !  Perhaps  he  had  killed  him  already !  But 
suddenly  a  yell  from  the  whole  multitude  broke  the 
agonizing  silence.  A  cape  was  spread  between  the  bull 
and  his  victim,  a  cloth  almost  nailed  on  to  the  brute's  poll 
by  two  strong  arms,  endeavouring  to  blind  the  beast.  It 
was  El  Nacional  who,  impelled  by  despair,  had  thrown 
himself  on  the  bull,  choosing  to  be  gored  himself  if  only 
he  could  save  his  master.  The  brute,  bewildered  by  this 
fresh  obstacle,  turned  upon  it,  turning  his  tail  towards  the 
fallen  man.  The  banderillero  engaged  between  the  horns, 
moved  backwards  with  the  bull,  waving  his  cape,  not 
knowing  how  to  extricate  himself  from  this  perilous  po- 
sition, but  satisfied  all  the  same,  at  having  drawn  the 
ferocious  brute  away  from  Gallardo. 


236  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  public  absorbed  by  this  fresh  incident,  almost  for- 
got the  espada.  El  Nacional  would  fall  also ;  he  could  not 
get  out  from  between  the  horns,  and  the  brute  carried 
him  along  as  if  he  were  already  impaled. 

The  men  shouted  as  if  their  cries  could  have  been 
of  any  assistance,  the  women  sobbed,  turning  their  heads 
aside  and  wringing  their  hands,  when  the  banderillero, 
taking  advantage  of  a  moment  when  the  brute  lowered 
his  head  to  gore  him,  slipped  from  between  the  horns 
to  one  side,  while  the  bull  rushed  blindly  on,  carrying 
away  the  ragged  cape  on  his  horns. 

The  tense  feeling  broke  out  into  deafening  applause. 
The  unstable  crowd,  only  impressed  by  the  danger  of 
the  moment,  acclaimed  El  Nacional.  It  was  the  finest 
moment  of  his  life,  and  in  their  excitement  they  scarcely 
noticed  the  inanimate  body  of  Gallardo,  who  with  his 
head  hanging  down  was  being  carried  out  of  the  Plaza 
between  the  toreros  and  arena  servants. 

In  Seville  that  night  nothing  was  spoken  of  but 
Gallardo's  accident,  the  worst  he  had  ever  had.  In  many 
towns  special  sheets  had  already  been  published,  and  the 
papers  all  over  Spain  gave  accounts  of  the  affair,  which 
was  wired  in  all  directions,  as  if  some  political  person- 
age had  been  the  victim  of  an  attempt. 

Terrifying  news  flew  about  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes, 
coloured  by  the  vivid  southern  imagination.  Poor  Gal- 
lardo had  just  died,  he  who  brought  the  news  had  seen 
him  lying  on  a  bed  in  the  infirmary  of  the  Plaza,  as  white 
as  paper,  with  a  crucifix  between  his  hands,  so  it  must 
be  true.  According  to  others  less  lugubrious,  he  was  still 
alive,  though  he  might  die  at  any  moment.  All  his  bowels 
were  torn,  his  heart,  his  loins,  everj'thing,  the  bull  had 
made  a  perfect  sieve  of  his  body. 

Guards  had  been  placed  around  the  Plaza  to  prevent 
the  mob  anxious  for  news  from  stormingr  the  infirmary. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  237 

Outside,  the  populace  had  assembled,  asking  every  one 
who  came  out  as  to  the  espada's  state. 

El  Nacional,  still  in  his  fighting  dress,  came  out  sev- 
eral times,  frowning  and  angry,  as  the  preparations  for 
his  master's  removal  were  not  ready. 

Seeing  the  banderillero,  the  mob  forgot  the  wounded 
man  in  their  congratulations. 

"Sefior  Sebastian,  you  were  splendid!  .  .  .  Had  it  not 
been  for  you !  .  .  ." 

But  he  refused  all  congratulations.  What  did  it  sig- 
nify what  he  had  done?  Nothing  at  all  .  .  .  rubbish. 
The  important  thing  was  Juan's  condition,  who  was  in 
the  infirmary  struggling  with  death. 

"And  how  is  he,  Sefio  Sebastian?"  asked  the  people, 
returning  to  their  first  interest. 

"Very  bad.  He  has  only  just  recovered  consciousness. 
He  has  one  leg  broken  to  bits:  a  gore  underneath  the 
arm,  and  what  besides,  I  know  not !  .  .  .  The  poor  fellow 
is  to  me  like  my  own  saint  .  .  .  We  are  going  to  take 
him  home." 

When  the  night  closed  in,  Gallardo  was  carried  out 
of  the  circus  on  a  litter.  The  crowd  walked  silently 
after  him.  Every  few  moments  El  Nacional,  carrying 
the  cape  on  his  arm,  and  still  wearing  his  showy  torero's 
dress  amongst  the  common  clothes  of  the  people,  leaned 
over  the  cover  of  the  litter  and  ordered  the  porters  to 
stop. 

The  doctors  belonging  to  the  Plaza  walked  behind 
and  with  them  the  Marquis  de  Moraima,  and  Don 
Jose,  the  manager,  who  seemed  ready  to  faint  in  the 
arms  of  some  friends  of  the  "Forty-five,"  one  common 
anxiety  mixing  them  up  with  the  ragged  crew,  who  also 
followed  the  litter. 

The  crowd  were  horrified ;  it  was  a  sad  procession,  as 


238  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

though  some  national  disaster  had  occurred  which  lev- 
elled all  beneath  the  general  misfortune. 

"What  a  misfortune,  Sefio  Marque!"  said  a  chubby- 
faced,  red-haired  peasant,  who  carried  his  jacket  on  his 
arm,  to  the  Marquis  de  Moraima. 

Twice  this  man  had  pushed  aside  some  of  the  porters 
of  the  litter,  wishing  to  assist  in  carrying  it.  The  Mar- 
quis looked  at  him  sympathetically.  He  must  be  one  of 
those  country  peasants  who  were  accustomed  to  salute 
him  on  the  roads. 

"Yes,  a  great  misfortune,  my  lad." 

"Do  you  think  he  will  die,  Seno  Marque?" 

"It  is  to  be  feared,  unless  a  miracle  saves  him.  He  is 
ground  to  powder." 

And  the  Marquis,  placing  his  right  hand  on  the  shoul- 
der of  the  unknown  man,  seemed  pleased  by  the  sorrow 
expressed  on  his  countenance. 

Gallardo's  return  to  his  house  was  most  painful.  In- 
side the  patio  were  heard  cries  of  despair,  and  outside 
other  women,  friends  and  neighbours  of  Juaniyo,  were 
screaming  and  tearing  their  hair,  thinking  him  already 
dead. 

The  litter  was  carried  into  a  room  off  the  patio,  and 
the  espada  with  the  greatest  care  was  lifted  on  to  a 
bed.  He  was  wrapped  in  bloody  cloths  and  bandages 
smelling  of  antiseptics,  of  his  fighting  dress  he  retained 
nothing  but  one  pink  stocking,  and  his  under  garments 
were  all  torn  or  cut  with  scissors. 

His  pigtail  hung  unplaited  and  entangled  on  his  neck, 
and  his  face  was  as  pale  as  a  wafer.  He  opened  his 
eyes  slightly,  feeling  a  hand  slipped  into  his,  and  saw 
Carmen,  a  Carmen  as  pale  as  himself,  dry-eyed  and  ter- 
rified. 

The  friends  of  the  torero  prudently  intervened.  She 
must  remember  the  wounded  man  had  only   received 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  239 

first  aid,  and  a  great  deal  remained  for  the  doctors 
to  do. 

The  wounded  man  made  a  sign  with  his  eyes  to  EI 
Nacional,  who  leaned  over  him  to  catch  the  slight  mur- 
mur. 

"Juan  says/'  he  murmured,  going  out  into  the  patio, 
"he  would  like  Doctor  Ruiz  sent  for." 

'Tt  is  already  done,"  said  the  manager,  pleased  with 
his  prevision.  He  had  telegraphed  at  once  when  he  knew 
the  importance  of  the  accident,  and  he  had  no  doubt  but 
that  Doctor  Ruiz  was  already  on  the  way  and  would  ar- 
rive on  the  following  morning. 

After  their  first  bewilderment,  the  doctors  were  more 
hopeful.  It  was  possible  he  might  not  die.  He  had  such 
a  splendid  constitution  and  such  energy.  What  was 
most  to  be  dreaded  was  the  terrible  shock,  which  would 
have  killed  most  men  instantaneously,  but  he  had  re- 
covered consciousness,  although  the  weakness  was  great. 
As  far  as  the  wounds  were  concerned,  they  did  not 
think  them  dangerous.  That  on  the  arm  was  not  much, 
though  it  was  possible  the  limb  might  be  less  agile  than 
before.  The  hurt  on  the  leg  did  not  offer  equal  hopes, 
the  bones  were  fractured,  and  probably  Gallardo  would 
be  lame. 

Don  Jose,  who  had  endeavoured  to  keep  calm,  when 
hours  before  he  had  thought  the  espada's  death  inevitable, 
quite  broke  down.  His  matador  lame !  Then  he  would 
no  longer  be  able  to  fight ! 

He  was  furious  at  the  calm  with  which  the  doctors 
spoke  of  the  possibility  of  Gallardo  becoming  useless  as 
a  torero. 

"That  could  not  be.  Do  you  think  it  logical  that 
Juan  should  live  and  not  fight?  .  .  .  Who  would  fill  his 
place?  I  tell  you,  it  cannot  be!  The  first  man  in  the 
world!  .  .  .  And  you  want  him  to  retire!" 


240  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  spent  the  night  watching  with  the  men  of  the 
cuadrilla  and  Gallardo's  brother-in-law,  and  next  morn- 
ing early  he  went  to  the  station  to  meet  the  Madrid  ex- 
press. It  arrived  and  with  it  Dr.  Ruiz.  He  came  with- 
out any  luggage,  as  carelessly  dressed  as  ever,  smiling  be- 
hind his  yellowish  beard,  bobbing  along  in  his  loose 
coat,  with  the  swinging  of  his  little  short  legs  and  his  big 
stomach  like  a  Buddha. 

As  he  entered  the  house,  the  torero,  who  seemed  sunk 
in  the  extreme  of  weakness,  opened  his  eyes,  reviving 
with  a  smile  of  confidence.  After  Ruiz  had  listened  in  a 
comer  to  the  other  doctors'  opinions  and  explanations,  he 
approached  the  bed. 

"Courage,  my  lad ;  this  will  not  finish  you !  You  have 
good  luck!" 

And  then  he  added,  turning  to  his  colleagues : 

"See  what  a  magnificent  animal  this  Juanillo  is !  An- 
other one  by  now,  would  not  be  giving  us  any  work." 

He  examined  him  very  carefully;  it  was  a  "cogida" 
which  required  great  care.  But  he  had  seen  so  many! 
.  .  .  Bull-fighting  wounds  were  his  specialite,  and  in 
them  he  always  expected  the  most  extraordinary  cures, 
as  if  the  horns  gave  at  the  same  time  the  wound  and 
its  remedy. 

"You  may  almost  say  that  he  who  is  not  killed  out- 
right in  the  Plaza  is  saved.  The  cure  becomes  then 
only  a  matter  of  time." 

For  three  days  Gallardo  endured  tortures,  his  weak- 
ness preventing  the  use  of  anaesthetics,  and  Doctor  Ruiz 
extracted  several  splinters  of  bone  from  the  broken  leg. 

"Who  has  said  you  would  be  useless  for  fighting?" 
exclaimed  the  Doctor,  satisfied  with  his  own  cleverness. 
"You  will  fight,  my  son.  The  public  will  still  have  to 
applaud  you." 

The  manager  agreed  with  this.     Exactly  what  he  had 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  241 

thought;  how  could  that  lad,  who  was  the  first  man  in 
the  world,  end  his  life  in  that  fashion? 

By  order  of  Doctor  Ruiz,  the  torero's  family  were 
moved  to  Don  Jose's  house.  The  women  drove  him  wild, 
and  their  proximity  was  intolerable  during  the  hours  of 
the  operations.  A  groan  from  the  torero  would  instantly 
be  answered  from  every  part  of  the  house  by  the  howls 
of  his  mother  and  sister,  and  Carmen  struggled  like  a 
mad  woman  to  go  to  her  husband. 

Sorrow  had  changed  the  wife,  making  her  forget  her 
rancour.  "The  fault  is  mine,"  she  would  often  say  de- 
spairingly to  El  Nacional.  "He  said  very  often  he  wished 
a  bull  would  end  him  once  for  all.  I  have  been  very 
wrong;  I  have  embittered  his  life." 

In  vain  the  banderillera  recalled  all  the  details  to  con- 
vince her  that  the  misfortune  was  accidental.  No;  ac- 
cording to  her,  Gallardo  had  wished  to  end  it  for  ever, 
and  had  it  not  been  for  El  Nacional  he  would  have  been 
carried  dead  out  of  the  arena. 

When  the  operations  were  over  the  family  returned  to 
the  house,  and  Carmen  paid  her  first  visit  to  the  sick  man. 

She  entered  the  room  quietly,  with  cast  down  eyes, 
as  if  she  were  ashamed  of  her  former  hostility,  and  tak- 
ing Juan's  hand  in  both  hers  she  asked : 

"How  are  you  ?" 

Gallardo  seemed  shrunk  by  pain,  pale  and  weak,  with 
an  almost  childish  resignation.  Nothing  remained  of  the 
proud  and  gallant  fellow  who  had  delighted  the  populace 
with  his  audacity.  He  seemed  daunted  by  the  terrible 
operations  endured  in  full  consciousness,  all  his  indiffer- 
ence to  pain  had  vanished  and  he  moaned  at  the  slight- 
est discomfort. 

After  ten  days  stay  in  Seville,  the  Doctor  returned  to 
Madrid. 

"Now,  m>  lad,"  he  said  to  the  sick  man,  "you  don't 


242  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

require  me  any  longer,  and  I  have  a  great  deal  to  do. 
Now  don't  be  imprudent,  and  in  a  couple  of  months  you 
will  be  well  and  strong.  It  is  possible  you  may  feel  your 
leg  a  little,  but  you  have  a  constitution  of  iron,  and  it  will 
go  on  getting  better." 

Gallardo's  cure  progressed,  as  Doctor  Ruiz  had  fore- 
told. At  the  end  of  a  month  the  leg  was  liberated  from 
its  enforced  quiet,  and  the  torero,  weak  and  limping 
slightly,  was  able  to  sit  in  a  chair  in  the  patio,  and  receive 
his  friends. 

During  his  illness,  when  fever  ran  high,  and  gloomy 
nightmares  troubled  him,  one  thought  always  remained 
steadfast  in  his  mind,  in  spite  of  all  restless  wanderings 
— the  remembrance  of  Dona  Sol.  Did  that  woman  know 
of  his  accident? 

While  he  was  still  in  bed,  he  had  ventured  to  question 
the  manager  about  her  when  they  chanced  to  be  alone. 

"Yes,  my  man,"  said  Don  Jose,  "she  has  remembered 
you.  ■  She  sent  me  a  wire  from  Nice,  enquiring  after  you, 
two  or  three  days  after  the  accident.  Most  probably  she 
saw  it  in  the  papers.  They  spoke  about  you  every- 
where, as  if  you  were  a  king." 

The  manager  had  replied  to  the  telegram,  but  had  not 
heard  subsequently  from  her. 

Gallardo  appeared  satisfied  for  some  days  with  this  ex- 
planation, but  afterwards  asked  again,  with  a  sick  man's 
persistence,  had  she  not  written?  Had  she  not  enquired 
again  after  him?  .  .  .  The  manager  tried  to  excuse  Dona 
Sol's  silence,  and  console  him.  He  must  remember  she 
was  always  moving  about.  Goodness  knows  where  she 
might  be  at  that  time. 

But  the  torero's  despair,  thinking  himself  forgotten, 
forced  Don  Jose  to  pious  lies.  Some  days  before,  he  had 
received  a  short  letter  from  Italy,  in  which  Dona  Sol 
inquired  after  him. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  243 

"Let  me  see  it !"  said  the  espada  anxiously. 

And,  as  the  manager  made  some  excuse,  pretending  to 
have  left  it  at  home,  Gallardo  implored  this  comfort. 

"Do  bring  it  to  me.  I  long  to  see  her  letter,  to  convince 
myself  that  she  remembers  me." 

To  avoid  further  complications  in  his  pretences,  Don 
Jose  invented  a  correspondence  that  did  not  pass  through 
his  hands,  but  was  directed  to  others.  Dona  Sol  had 
written  (according  to  him)  to  the  Marquis  about  her 
money  matters,  and  at  the  end  of  every  letter  she  en- 
quired after  Gallardo.  At  other  times  the  letters  were 
to  a  cousin,  in  which  were  the  same  remembrances  of 
the  torero. 

Gallardo  listened  quietly,  but  at  the  same  time  shook 
his  head  doubtfully.  When  would  he  see  her!  Should 
he  ever  see  her  again?  Ay!  what  a  woman  to  fly  like 
that  without  any  motive,  except  the  caprices  of  her 
strange  character. 

"What  you  ought  to  do,"  said  the  manager,  "is  to  for- 
get all  about  women-kind  and  attend  to  business.  You 
are  no  longer  in  bed,  and  you  are  almost  cured.  How 
do  you  feel  as  to  strength?  Say,  shall  we  fight  or  no? 
You  have  all  the  winter  before  you  to  recover  strength. 
Shall  we  accept  contracts,  or  do  you  decline  to  fight  this 
year?" 

Gallardo  raised  his  head  proudly,  as  though  something 
dishonouring  was  being  proposed  to  him.  Renounce  bull- 
fighting? .  .  .  Spend  a  whole  year  without  being  seen  in 
the  circus?  Could  the  public  resign  themselves  to  such 
an  absence? 

"Accept  them,  Don  Jose.  There  is  plenty  of  time  to 
get  strong  between  now  and  the  Spring.  You  may  prom- 
ise for  the  Easter  corrida.  I  think  this  leg  may  still  give 
me  some  trouble,  but,  please  God,  it  will  soon  be  as 
strong  as  iron." 


244  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  longed  for  the  time  to  return  to  the  circus.  He  felt 
greedy  of  fame  and  the  applause  of  the  populace,  and  in 
order  to  get  quite  strong  he  decided  to  spend  the  rest 
of  the  winter  with  his  family  at  La  Rinconada.  There, 
hunting  and  long  walks  would  strengthen  his  leg.  Be- 
sides, he  could  ride  about  to  overlook  the  work,  and 
visit  the  herds  of  goats,  the  droves  of  pigs,  the  dairies  and 
the  mares  grazing  in  the  meadows. 

The  management  of  the  farm  had  not  been  good,  every- 
thing cost  him  more  than  it  did  other  landlords,  and 
the  receipts  were  less.  His  brother-in-law,  who  had  es- 
tablished himself  at  the  farm  as  a  kind  of  dictator  to  set 
things  right,  had  only  succeeded  in  disturbing  the  routine 
of  the  work,  and  rousing  the  labourers'  anger.  It  was  for- 
tunate that  Gallardo  could  count  on  the  certain  incom- 
ings from  the  corridas,  an  inexhaustible  source  of  wealth, 
which  would  over  and  above  recoup  his  extravagances 
and  bad  management. 

Before  leaving  for  La  Rinconada,  Sefiora  Angustias 
wished  her  son  to  fulfil  her  vow  of  kneeling  before  the 
Virgin  of  Hope.  It  was  a  vow  she  had  made  that  ter- 
rible night  when  she  saw  him  stretched  pale  and  lifeless 
on  the  litter.  How  many  times  she  had  wept  before  La 
Macarena,  the  beautiful  Queen  of  Heaven,  with  the  long 
eye-lashes  and  swarthy  cheeks,  imploring  her  not  to  forget 
Juanillo ! 

The  ceremony  was  a  popular  rejoicing.  All  the  gar- 
deners of  the  suburb  were  summoned  to  the  church  of 
San  Gil,  which  was  filled  with  flowers,  piled  up  in 
banks  round  the  altars,  and  hanging  in  garlands  between 
the  arches  and  from  the  chandeliers. 

The  ceremony  took  place  on  a  beautiful  sunny  morn- 
ing. In  spite  of  its  being  a  working  day,  the  church 
was  filled  with  people  from  the  suburb.  Stout  women 
with  black  eyes,  wearing  black  silk  dresses,  and  lace  man- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  245 

tillas  over  their  pale  faces,  workmen  freshly  shaved,  and 
the  beggars  arrived  in  swarms,  forming  a  double  row  at 
the  church  door. 

A  Mass  was  to  be  sung,  with  accompaniment  of  or- 
chestra and  voices ;  something  quite  out  of  the  way,  like 
the  opera  in  the  San  Fernando  theatre  at  Easter.  And 
afterwards  the  priests  would  intone  a  Te  Deum  of  thanks- 
giving for  the  recovery  of  Senor  Juan  Gallardo,  the  same 
as  when  the  king  came  to  Seville. 

The  party  arrived,  making  their  way  through  the 
crowd.  The  espada's  mother  and  wife  walked  first, 
among  relations  and  friends,  dressed  in  rustling  black 
silks,  smiling  beneath  their  mantillas.  Gallardo  came 
after,  followed  by  an  interminable  escort  of  toreros  and 
friends,  all  dressed  in  light  suits,  with  gold  chains  and 
rings  of  extraordinary  brilliancy,  their  white  felt  hats 
contrasting  strangely  with  the  women's  black  clothes. 

Gallardo  was  very  grave.  He  was  a  good  believer. 
He  did  not  often  remember  God,  though  he  often  swore 
by  Him  blasphemously  at  difficult  moments,  more  by  habit 
than  anything  else ;  but  this  was  quite  another  affair,  he 
was  going  to  return  thanks  to  the  Santisima  Macarena, 
and  he  entered  the  church  reverently. 

They  all  went  in  except  El  Nacional,  who  leaving  his 
wife  and  children,  remained  in  the  little  square. 

"I  am  a  freethinker,"  he  thought  it  necessary  to  ex- 
plain to  a  group  of  friends.  "1  respect  all  beliefs;  but 
that  inside  there  is  for  me  .  .  .  rubbish.  I  do  not  wish 
to  be  wanting  in  respect  to  La  Macarena,  nor  to  take 
away  any  credit  which  is  hers,  but,  comrades,  suppose  I 
had  not  arrived  in  time  to  draw  away  the  bull  when 
Juaniyo  was  on  the  ground !"  .  .  . 

Through  the  open  doors  came  the  wail  of  instruments, 
the  voices  of  the  singers,  a  sweet  and  flowing  melody- 


246  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

accompanied  by  the  perfume  of  the  flowers  and  the  smell 
of  wax. 

When  the  party  came  out,  all  the  poor  people  scrambled 
and  quarrelled  for  the  handfuls  of  money  thrown  to  them. 
There  was  enough  for  everybody,  for  Gallardo  was  lib- 
eral, and  Senora  Angustias  wept  with  joy,  leaning  her 
head  on  a  friend's  shoulder. 

The  espada  appeared  at  the  church  door  radiant  and 
magnificent,  giving  his  arm  to  his  wife,  and  Carmen 
smiling,  with  a  tear  on  her  eyelashes,  felt  as  if  she  were 
being  married  to  him  a  second  time. 


s. 


CHAPTER  VII 

When  the  Holy  Week  came  round,  Gallardo  gave  his 
mother  a  great  pleasure. 

In  previous  years  as  a  devotee  of  "Our  Father  Jesus 
of  Great  Power"  he  had  walked  in  the  procession  of 
the  parish  of  San  Lorenzo,  wearing  the  long  black  tunic, 
with  high  pointed  hood  and  mask,  which  only  left  the  eyes 
visible. 

It  was  the  aristocratic  brotherhood,  and  when  the  tor- 
ero found  himself  on  the  high  road  to  fortune  he  had 
entered  it,  avoiding  the  popular  brotherhood,  whose  de- 
votion was  generally  accompanied  by  drunkenness  and 
scandal. 

He  spoke  with  pride  of  the  serious  gravity  of  this  rC' 
ligious  association.  Everything  was  well  ordered  and 
strictly  disciplined  as  in  a  regiment.  On  the  night  of 
Holy  Thursday,  as  the  clock  of  San  Lorenzo  struck  the 
P  second  stroke  of  two  in  the  morning,  the  church  doors 

would  be  suddenly  opened,  so  that  the  crowd  massed  on 
the  dark  pavement  outside  could  see  the  interior  of 
the  church,  resplendent  with  lights  and  the  brotherhood 
drawn  up  in  order. 

The  hooded  men,  silent  and  gloomy,  with  no  sign  of 
life  but  the  flash  of  their  eyes  through  the  black  mask, 
advanced  slowly  two  by  two,  each  holding  a  large  wax 
taper  in  his  hand,  and  leaving  a  wide  space  between  each 
pair  for  their  long  sweeping  trains. 

The  crowd,  with  southern  impressionability,  watched 
the   passing  of   this   hooded   train,   which   they   called 

247 


248  BLOOD  AXD  SAND 

"Nazarenos,"  with  deepest  interest,  for  some  of  these 
mysterious  masks  might  be  great  noblemen  whom  tra- 
ditional piety  had  induced  to  take  part  in  this  nocturnal 
procession. 

The  brotherhood,  obliged  to  keep  silence  under  pain  of 
mortal  sin,  were  escorted  by  municipal  guards  to  prevent 
them  being  molested  by  the  drunken  rabble,  who  began 
their  Holy  Week  holiday  on  Wednesday  night  by  visits 
to  every  tavern.  It  happened  now  and  then  that  the 
guards  relaxed  their  vigilance,  which  enabled  these  im- 
pious tipplers  to  place  themselves  alongside  of  the  silent 
brothers,  and  whisper  atrocious  insults  against  their  un- 
known persons,  or  their  equally  unknown  families.  The 
Nazarene  suffered  in  silence,  swallowing  the  insults,  of- 
fering them  as  a  sacrifice  to  the  "Lord  of  Great  Power." 
The  rascals  emboldened  by  this  meekness  would  redouble 
their  insults,  till  at  last  the  pious  mask,  considering  that 
if  silence  was  obligatory  inaction  was  not,  would  lift 
their  wax  tapers  and  thrash  the  intruders,  which  some- 
what upset  the  holy  meditations  of  the  ceremony. 

In  the  course  of  the  procession,  when  the  porters  of 
the  "pasos"  ^  required  rest,  and  the  huge  platforms  hung 
round  with  lanthorns  on  which  the  figures  stood,  halted,  a 
slight  whistle  was  enough  to  stop  the  hooded  figures,  who 
turned  facing  each  other,  resting  their  large  tapers  on 
their  feet,  looking  at  the  crowd  through  the  mysterious 
slit  of  the  mask.  Above  the  pointed  hoods  floated  the 
banners  of  the  brotherhood,  squares  of  black  velvet  with 
gold  fringes,  on  which  were  embroidered  the  Roman  let- 
ters S.P.Q.R.,  in  commemoration  of  the  part  played  by 

*  Large  platforms  with  life-size  figures  carv^ed  in  wood  and 
magnificently  dressed,  representing  scenes  from  the  life  of  Jesus 
• — or  the  Virgin  Mary,  or  the  Apostles.  Each  parish  sends  two. 
The  figures  are  ancient  and  often  by  eminent  artists. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  249 

the  Procurator  of  Judea  in  the  condemnation  of  the  Just 
One. 

The  paso  of  "Our  Father  Jesus  of  Great  Power"  stood 
on  a  heavy  platform  of  worked  metal,  trimmed  all  round 
with  hangings  of  black  velvet  which  fell  to  the  ground, 
concealing  the  twenty  half-naked  and  perspiring  porters. 
At  each  of  the  four  corners  hung  groups  of  lanthorns  and 
golden  angels,  and  in  the  centre  stood  Jesus,  crowned 
with  thorns  and  bending  under  the  weight  of  His  cross; 
a  tragical,  dolorous,  blood-stained  Jesus,  with  cadaverous 
face  and  tearful  eyes,  but  magnificently  dressed  in  a  vel- 
vet tunic,  covered  with  gold  flowers,  which  only  showed 
the  stuff  as  a  slight  arabesque  between  the  complicated 
embroideries. 

The  appearance  of  the  Lord  of  Great  Power  drew 
sighs  and  groans  from  hundreds  of  breasts. 

"Father  Jesus !"  murmured  the  old  women,  fixing  their 
hypnotised  eyes  on  the  figure — "Lord  of  Great  Power! 
Remember  us !" 

As  the  paso  stopped  in  the  middle  of  the  Plaza  with  its 
hooded  escort,  the  devotion  of  this  Andalusian  people, 
which  confides  all  its  thoughts  to  song,  broke  out  in  bird' 
like  trills  and  interminable  laments. 

A  childish  voice  of  trembling  sweetness  broke  the 
silence.  Some  girl  pushing  her  way  to  the  front  would 
send  a  "saeta"  ^  to  Jesus,  the  three  verses  of  which  cele- 
brated the  Lord  of  Great  Power,  ''The  most  divine  sculp- 
ture," and  the  artist  Montanes,  a  companion  of  the  artists 
of  the  golden  age,  who  had  carved  it.  The  hooded 
brothers  listened  motionless,  till  the  conductor  of  the  paso, 
thinking  the  pause  had  been  long  enough,  struck  a  sil- 
ver bell  on  the  front  of  the  platform.  "Up  with  it,"  and 
the  Lord  of  Great  Power,  after  many  oscillations,  was 
'Lit. — an  arrow,  a  song  of  three  verses  sometimes  improvised. 


250  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

hoisted  up,  while  the  feet  of  the  invisible  porters  began  to 
move  like  tentacles  on  the  ground. 

After  this  came  the  Virgin,  Our  Lady  of  the  Greatest 
Sorrow,  for  all  the  parishes  sent  out  two  pasos.  Under  a 
velvet  canopy  her  golden  crown  trembled  in  the  surround- 
ing lights.  The  train  of  her  mantle,  which  was  several 
yards  long,  hung  down  behind  the  paso,  being  puffed  out 
by  a  frame-work  of  wood,  which  displayed  the  splendour 
of  its  rich,  heavy  and  splendid  embroideries,  which  must 
have  exhausted  the  skill  and  patience  of  a  whole  gener- 
ation. 

To  the  roll  of  the  drums  a  whole  troup  of  women 
followed  her,  their  bodies  in  the  shadow,  and  their  faces 
reddened  by  the  glare  of  the  tapers  they  carried  in  her 
hands.  Old  barefooted  women  in  mantillas,  girls  wearing 
the  white  clothes  which  were  to  have  served  them  as 
shrouds,  women  who  walked  painfully,  as  if  they  were 
suffering  from  hidden  and  painful  maladies,  an  assembly 
of  suffering  humanity  saved  from  death  by  the  goodness 
of  the  Lord  of  Great  Power  and  His  Blessed  Mother. 

The  procession  of  the  pious  brotherhood,  after  having 
slowly  walked  through  the  streets,  with  long  pauses  dur- 
ing which  they  sang  hymns,  entered  the  Cathedral,  which 
remained  all  night  with  its  doors  open.  With  their 
lighted  tapers  they  wound  through  the  gigantic  naves, 
bringing  out  of  the  darkness  the  immense  pillars  hung 
with  velvet  trimmed  with  gold,  but  their  light  was  unable 
to  disperse  the  darkness  gathered  in  the  vaults  above. 
Leaving  this  crypt-like  gloom  they  came  out  again  under 
the  starlight,  and  the  rising  sun  ended  by  surprising  the 
procession  still  wandering  about  the  streets. 

Gallardo  was  an  enthusiast  about  the  Lord  of  Great 
Power  and  the  majestic  silence  of  the  brotherhood.  It 
was  a  very  serious  thing!  One  might  laugh  at  the  other 
pasos  for  their  disorder  and  want  of  devotion.     But  to 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  251 

laugh  at  this  one !  .  .  .  Never !  Besides,  in  this  brother- 
hood one  rubbed  against  very  great  people. 

Nevertheless,  this  year  the  espada  decided  to  abandon 
the  Lord  of  Great  Power,  to  go  out  with  the  brotherhood 
of  la  Macarena,  who  escorted  the  miraculous  Virgin  of 
Hope. 

Seiiora  Angustias  was  delighted  when  she  heard  his 
decision.  He  owed  it  to  the  Virgin,  who  had  saved  him 
after  his  last  "cogida."  Besides,  this  flattered  her  feelings 
of  plebeian  simplicity. 

"Every  one  with  his  own,  Juaniyo.  It  is  all  right  for 
you  to  mix  with  gentlefolk,  but  you  ought  to  think  that  the 
poor  have  always  loved  you,  and  that  now  they  are 
speaking  against  you,  because  they  think  you  despise 
them." 

The  torero  knew  it  but  too  well.  The  turbulent  popu- 
lace who  sat  on  the  sunny  side  of  the  Plaza  were  be- 
ginning to  show  a  certain  animosity  against  him,  thinking 
themselves  forgotten.  They  criticised  his  constant  inter- 
course with  wealthy  people,  and  his  desertion  of  those 
who  had  been  his  first  admirers.  Gallardo  wished  there- 
for to  take  advantage  of  every  means  of  flattering  those 
whose  applause  he  wanted.  A  few  days  before  the  pro- 
cession, he  informed  the  most  influential  members  of  la 
Macarena  of  his  intention  to  follow  in  it.  He  did  not 
wish  the  people  to  know  it,  it  was  purely  an  act  of  de- 
votion, and  he  wished  his  intention  to  remain  a  secret. 

All  the  same,  in  a  few  days  the  suburb  was  talking  of 
nothing  else,  it  vras  the  pride  of  the  neighbourhood. 
"Ah!  we  must  see  la  Macarena  this  year,"  said  the  gos- 
sips as  they  spoke  of  the  torero's  intention.  "The  Senora 
Angustias  will  cover  the  paso  with  flowers,  it  will  cost  at 
least  a  hundred  duros.  And  Juaniyo  will  hang  all  his 
jewellery  on  the  Virgin.     A  real  fortune !" 

And  so  it  was.     Gallardo  gathered  together  all  the 


252  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

jewellery  in  the  house,  both  his  own  and  his  wife's,  to 
hang  on  the  image.  La  Macarena  would  wear  on  her 
ears  those  diamond  ear-rings  which  the  espada  had 
bought  for  Carmen  in  Madrid,  which  had  cost  the  pro- 
ceeds of  many  corridas.  On  her  breast  she  would  wear 
a  large  double  gold  chain  belonging  to  the  torero,  on 
which  would  hang  all  his  rings  and  the  large  diamond 
studs  that  he  wore  on  his  shirt  front. 

"Jesus!  How  smart  our  Morena^  will  be,"  said  they 
often,  speaking  of  the  A^irgin.  "Sefio  Juan  intends  to 
pay  for  everything.     It  wnll  make  half  Seville  rage!" 

When  the  espada  was  questioned  about  it,  he  smiled 
modestly.  He  had  always  felt  a  deep  devotion  for  la 
Macarena.  She  was  the  A'irgin  of  the  suburb  in  which 
he  was  bom,  besides  his  poor  father  had  never  failed  to 
walk  in  the  procession  as  an  armed  man.  It  was  an 
honour  of  which  the  family  was  proud,  and  had  his  own 
position  admitted  of  it  he  would  have  been  delighted  to 
put  on  the  helmet  and  carry  the  lance,  like  so  many 
Gallardos,  his  forebears,  who  were  now  underground. 

This  religious  popularity  flattered  him :  he  was  anxious 
that  every  one  in  the  suburb  should  know  about  his  fol- 
lowing the  procession,  but  at  the  same  time  he  dreaded 
the  news  spreading  about  the  town.  He  believed  in  the 
Virgin,  and  he  wished  to  stand  well  with  her,  in  view  of 
future  dangers ;  but  he  trembled  when  he  thought  of  the 
derision  of  his  friends  assembled  in  the  cafes  and  clubs 
of  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes. 

"They  will  turn  me  into  ridicule  if  they  recognize 
me,"  said  he.  "All  the  same,  I  must  try  and  stand  well 
with  everybody." 

On  the  night  of  Holy  Thursday  he  went  with  his  wife 
to  the  Cathedral  to  hear  the  Miserere.  The  immensely 
high  Gothic  arches  had  no  light  but  that  of  a  few  war 

*  Dark  one. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  253 

tapers  hung  on  to  the  pillars,  just  sufficient  for  the  crowd 
not  to  be  obliged  to  feel  their  way.  All  the  people  of 
better  social  position  were  seated  in  the  side  chapels 
behind  the  iron  gratings,  anxious  to  avoid  contact  with 
the  perspiring  masses  pouring  into  the  nave. 

The  choir  was  in  complete  darkness,  except  for  a  few 
lights  looking  like  a  starry  constellation,  for  the  use  of 
the  musicians  and  singers.  The  Miserere  of  Eslava  was 
sung  in  this  atmosphere  of  gloom  and  mystery.  It  was  a 
gay  and  graceful  Andalusian  Miserere  like  the  fluttering 
of  doves'  wings,  with  tender  romances  like  love  sere- 
nades, and  choruses  like  drinkers'  rounds,  full  of  that 
joy  of  life,  which  made  the  people  forgetful  of  death, 
and  rebel  against  the  gloom  of  the  Passion. 

When  the  voice  of  the  tenor  had  ended  its  last  ro- 
mance, and  the  wails  in  which  he  apostrophised  "Jeru- 
salem !  Jerusalem !"  were  lost  in  the  vaults,  the  crowd 
dispersed,  much  preferring  the  liveliness  of  the  streets, 
as  gay  as  a  theatre,  with  their  electric  lights,  and  the 
rows  of  chairs  on  the  pavements,  and  wooden  stages  in 
the  Plazas. 

Gallardo  returned  home  quickly  to  put  on  his  Nazarene 
dress.  Senora  Angustias  had  prepared  his  clothes  with  a 
tenderness  which  carried  her  back  to  her  youthful  days. 
Ay !  her  poor  dear  husband !  who  on  that  night  would 
don  his  bellicose  array,  and  shouldering  his  lance,  would 
leave  the  house,  not  to  return  till  the  following  day,  his 
helmet  knocked  in,  his  "tonelete"  ^  a  mass  of  filth,  hav- 
ing camped  with  his  brethren  in  every  tavern  in  Seville. 

The  espada  was  as  careful  of  his  underclothing  as  a 
woman,  and  he  put  on  his  "Nazarene"  dress  with  the 
same  scrupulous  care  as  he  did  his  fighting  costume. 
First  he  put  on  his  silk  stockings  and  patent  leather 
shoes,  then  the  white  satin  robe  his  mother  had  made 
^Ancient  armour,  from  the  waist  to  the  knees. 


254  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

for  him,  and  above  this  the  high  pointed  hood  of  green 
velvet,  which  fell  over  his  shoulders  and  face  like  a 
mask,  and  hung  down  in  front  like  a  chasuble  as  far  as 
his  knees.  On  one  side  of  the  breast  the  coat  of  arms 
of  the  brotherhood  was  delicately  embroidered  in  varie- 
gated colours.  The  torero  having  put  on  his  white  gloves 
took  the  tall  staff  which  was  a  sign  of  dignity  in  the 
brotherhood.  It  was  a  long  staff  covered  with  green 
velvet,  with  a  silver  top,  and  pointed  at  the  end  with  the 
same  metal. 

As  Gallardo  took  his  way  through  the  narrow  street 
on  his  way  to  San  Gil  he  met  the  company  of  "Jews," 
that  is  to  say,  of  armed  men,  fierce  soldiers,  their  faces 
framed  by  their  helmets'  metal  chin  strap,  wearing  wine- 
coloured  tunics,  flesh-coloured  cotton  stockings  and  high 
sandals,  round  their  waists  was  fastened  the  Roman 
sword,  and  over  their  shoulders,  like  a  modern  gun  strap, 
was  the  cord  which  supported  their  lances.  These  sol- 
diers, young  and  old,  marched  to  the  roll  of  drums  and 
carried  a  Roman  banner  with  the  senatorial  inscription. 

An  imposingly  magnificent  personage  swaggered  sword 
in  hand  at  the  head  of  this  troup.  Gallardo  recognised 
him  as  he  passed. 

"Curse  him  !"  said  he,  laughing  beneath  his  mask.  "No 
one  will  pay  any  attention  to  me.  This  'gacho'  will  carry 
off  all  the  palms  to-night." 

It  was  Captain  Chivo,  a  gipsy  singer,  who  had  arrived 
that  morning  from  Paris,  faithful  to  his  military  disci- 
pline, to  put  himself  at  the  head  of  his  soldiers. 

To  fail  in  this  duty  would  have  been  to  forfeit  the 
title  of  Captain,  which  El  Chivo  ostentatiously  displayed 
on  every  music-hall  placard  in  Paris,  where  he  and  his 
daughters  danced  and  sang.  These  girls  were  as  lively 
as  lizards,  graceful  of  movement,  with  large  eyes,  and  a 
delicacy  of   colouring  and  suppleness   of   figure   which 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  255 

drove  men  mad.  The  eldest  had  had  the  good  fortune 
to  run  away  with  a  Russian  prince,  and  the  Parisian 
papers  for  days  were  full  of  the  despair  "of  that  brave 
officer  of  the  Spanish  army,"  who  intended  to  avenge  his 
honour  by  shooting  the  fugitives.  In  a  theatre  on  the 
boulevards  a  piece  had  been  hastily  mounted,  on  the 
"Flight  of  the  Gipsy,"  with  dances  of  toreros,  choruses 
of  friars,  and  other  scenes  of  faithful  local  colouring. 
El  Chivo  soon  compromised  with  his  left-handed  son-in- 
law  in  consideration  of  pocketing  a  good  indemnity,  and 
continued  dancing  in  Paris  with  the  other  girls  in  hopes 
of  another  Russian  prince.  His  rank  as  Captain  made 
many  foreigners,  well  informed  as  to  what  was  going  on 
in  Spain,  thoughtful.  Ah !  Spain !  .  .  .  a  decadent  coun- 
try which  does  not  pay  its  noble  soldiers,  and  forces  its 
hidalgos  to  send  their  daughters  on  the  stage. 

On  the  approach  of  Holy  Week,  Captain  Chivo  could 
no  longer  bear  his  absence  from  Seville,  so  he  took  fare- 
well of  his  daughters  with  the  air  of  a  severe  and  un- 
compromising "pere  noble." 

"My  children,  I  am  going.  .  .  .  Mind  that  you  are 
good  .  .  .  observe  propriety  and  decency.  .  .  .  My  com- 
pany is  waiting  for  me.  What  would  they  say  if  their 
Captain  failed  them?" 

He  thought  with  pride  as  he  travelled  from  Paris  to 
Seville  of  his  father  and  grandfather,  who  had  been  cap- 
tains of  the  Jews  of  la  Macarena,  and  that  to  himself 
fresh  glory  accrued  through  this  inheritance  from  his 
forefathers. 

He  had  once  drawn  a  prize  of  ten  thousand  pesetas  in 
the  National  Lottery,  and  the  whole  of  this  sum  he  had 
spent  on  a  uniform  suitable  to  his  rank.  The  gossips 
of  the  suburb  rushed  to  have  a  look  at  the  Captain,  daz- 
zlingf  in  his  gold  embroideries,  wearing  a  burnished  metal 


256  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

corselet,  a  helmet  ever  which  flowed  a  cascade  of  white 
feathers,  and  whose  brilliant  steel  reflected  all  the  light 
of  the  procession.  It  was  the  fantastic  magnificence 
of  a  red  skin ;  a  princely  dress,  of  which  a  drunken  Aura- 
canian  might  have  dreamt.  The  women  fingered  the  vel- 
vet kilt,  admiring  its  embroideries  of  nails,  hammers, 
thorns,  in  fact  all  the  attributes  of  the  Passion.  His  boots 
seemed  trembling  at  every  step  from  the  flashing  bril- 
liancy of  the  spangles  and  paste  jewels  which  covered 
them.  Below  the  white  plumes  of  the  helmet,  which 
seemed  to  make  his  dark  Moorish  colouring  darker  still, 
the  gipsy's  grey  whiskers  could  be  seen.  This  was  not 
military.  The  Captain  himself  nobly  admitted  it.  But 
he  was  returning  to  Paris,  and  something  must  be  con- 
ceded to  art. 

Turning  his  head  with  warlike  pride  and  fixing  his 
eyes  on  the  legionary  eagle,  he  shouted : 

"Attention !  let  no  one  leave  the  ranks !  .  .  .  observe 
decency  and  discipline !" 

The  company  advanced,  marching  slowly,  stiflly  and 
solemnly  to  the  rubadub  of  the  drum.  In  every  street 
were  many  taverns,  and  before  their  doors  stood  boon 
companions,  their  hats  well  back,  and  their  waistcoats 
open,  who  had  lost  count  of  the  innumerable  glasses  they 
had  drunk  in  commemoration  of  the  Lord's  death. 

As  they  saw  the  imposing  warrior  come  along  they 
hailed  him,  holding  up  from  afar  glasses  of  fragrant 
amber-coloured  wine.  The  Captain  endeavoured  to 
conceal  his  inward  perturbation,  turning  his  eyes  away, 
and  holding  himself  up  even  more  rigidly  inside  his  metal 
corselet.    If  only  he  had  not  been  on  duty!  .  .  . 

Some  friends  more  pressing  than  the  others,  crossed 
the  street  to  push  the  glass  under  the  plumed  helmet; 
but  the  incorruptible  centurion  drew  back,  presenting  the 
point  of  hi?  «iword.     Dut}'  was  dut}'.     This  year  at  all 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  257 

events  it  should  not  be  as  other  years,  in  which  the  com- 
pany had  fallen  into  disorder  and  disarray  almost  as 
soon  as  they  had  started. 

The  streets  soon  became  real  Ways  of  Bitterness  for 
Captain  Chivo.  He  was  so  hot  in  his  armour,  surely  a 
little  wine  would  not  destroy  discipline ;  so  he  accepted  a 
glass,  and  then  another,  and  soon  the  company  were 
moving  along  with  gaps  in  their  ranks,  strewing  the  way 
with  stragglers,  who  stopped  at  every  tavern  they  passed. 

The  procession  marched  with  traditional  slowness, 
waiting  hours  at  every  crossway.  It  was  only  twelve  at 
night,  and  la  Macarena  would  not  have  *o  return  home 
till  twelve  the  following  day;  it  took  her  longer  to  go 
through  the  streets  of  Seville  than  it  took  to  go  from 
Seville  to  Madrid. 

First  of  all  advanced  the  paso  of  "The  Sentence  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,"  a  platform  covered  with  figures, 
representing  Pilate  seated  on  a  golden  throne,  surrounded 
by  soldiers  in  coloured  kilts  and  plumed  helmets,  guard- 
ing the  sorrowful  Jesus,  ready  to  march  to  execution,  in 
a  tunic  of  violet  velvet  with  resplendent  embroideries, 
and  three  golden  rays,  representing  the  three  Persons  of 
the  Trinity,  appearing  above  His  crown  of  thorns.  But 
this  paso  in  spite  of  its  many  figures  and  tlie  richness  of 
its  decoration  did  not  rivet  the  attention  of  the  crowd. 
It  seemed  dwarfed  by  the  one  following  it,  that  of  the 
Queen  of  the  popular  suburbs,  the  miraculous  Virgin  of 
Hope,  la  Macarena. 

When  this  Virgin  with  her  pink  cheeks  and  long  eye- 
lashes appeared,  beneath  a  canopy  of  velvet,  which 
swayed  with  every  step  of  the  concealed  carriers,  a  deaf- 
ening acclamation  rose  from  the  populace  assembled  in 
the  Plaza.  Ah !  how  beautiful  she  was ;  the  Queen  of 
Heaven!    A  beauty  which  never  aged! 

Her  splendid  mantle,  of  immense  length,  with  a  wide 


2S8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

reticulated  gold  border  like  the  meshes  of  a  net,  extended 
a  long  way  behind  the  paso,  like  a  gigantic  peacock's  fold' 
ed  tail.  Her  eyes  shone,  as  if  they  were  moistened  with 
tears  at  the  joyous  welcome  of  the  faithful.  The  image 
was  covered  with  flashing  jewels,  like  a  brilliant  armour 
over  the  velvet  dress.  They  were  in  hundreds,  possibly 
thousands !  She  seemed  covered  with  shining  rain  drops, 
flaming  with  every  colour  of  the  rainbow.  From  her  neck 
hung  rows  of  pearls,  gold  chains  on  which  hundreds  of 
rings  were  strung,  and  all  the  front  of  her  dress  was 
plated  with  gold  watches,  pendents  of  emeralds  and  bril- 
liants, and  ear-rings  as  large  as  pebbles.  All  the  devotees 
lent  their  jewels  for  the  Santisima  Macarena  to  wear  on 
her  progress,  and  the  women  showed  their  unornamented 
hands  on  that  night  of  religious  mourning,  delighted  that 
the  Mother  of  God  should  be  wearing  those  jewels  which 
were  their  pride.  The  public  knew  them,  for  they  saw 
them  every  year ;  they  could  tell  all  the  tale  of  them,  and 
point  out  any  novelties;  and  they  knew  that  the  orna- 
ments the  Virgin  wore  on  her  breast  hanging  on  a  gold 
chain  belonged  to  Gallardo  the  torero. 

Gallardo  himself,  with  his  face  covered,  leaning  on  the 
StaflF  of  authority,  walked  in  front  of  the  paso  with  the 
dignitaries  of  the  brotherhood.  Others  carried  long 
trumpets  hung  with  gold-fringed  green  banners.  Now 
and  again  they  put  them  to  their  lips  through  a  slit  in 
their  masks,  and  a  heart-rending  funereal  trumpeting 
broke  the  silence.  But  this  horrifying  roar  woke  no 
echo  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  the  soft  Spring  night 
with  its  perfume  of  orange  flowers  was  too  sweet  and 
smiling;  in  vain  the  trumpets  roared  funereal  marches, 
or  the  singers  w^pt  as  they  sang  the  sacred  verses, 
or  the  soldiers  marched  frowning  like  veritable  execu- 
tioners, the  Spring  night  smiled,  spreading  the  perfume 
of  its  thousand  flowers,  and  no  one  thought  of  death. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  359 

The  inhabitants  of  the  suburbs  swarmed  in  disorder 
round  the  Virgin,  small  shopkeepers,  with  their  dis- 
hevelled wives,  dragging-  tribes  of  children  along  by  the 
hand  on  this  excursion  which  would  last  till  dawn; 
young  men  with  their  black  curls  flattened  over  their 
ears  flourishing  sticks  as  if  some  one  intended  to  insult 
la  Macarena,  and  their  strong  arms  would  be  required 
for  her  protection,  crowds  of  men  and  women  flattening 
themselves  between  the  enormous  paso  and  the  walls  in 
the  narrow  streets.  "Ole!  La  Macarena!  .  .  .  The 
first  Virgin  of  the  world!" 

Every  fifty  paces  the  saintly  platform  was  stopped. 
There  was  no  hurry,  the  night  was  long.  In  many  cases 
the  Virgin  was  stopped  so  that  people  could  look  at  her 
at  their  ease ;  every  tavern  keeper  also  requested  a  halt  in 
front  of  his  establishment. 

A  man  would  cross  the  road  towards  the  leaders  of  the 
paso. 

"Here !  Hi !  Stop !  .  .  .  Here  is  the  first  singer  in  the 
world  who  wants  to  sing  a  'saeta'  to  the  Virgin." 

The  "first  singer  in  the  world,"  leaning  on  a  friend, 
with  unsteady  legs  and  passing  on  his  glass  to  some 
one  else,  would,  after  coughing,  pour  forth  the  full  tor- 
rent of  his  hoarse  voice,  of  which  the  roulades  obscured 
the  clearness  of  the  words.  Before  he  had  half  ended 
his  slow  ditty  another  voice  would  begin,  and  then  an- 
other, as  if  a  musical  contest  were  established;  some 
sang  like  birds,  others  were  hoarse  like  broken  bellows, 
others  screamed  with  piercing  yells,  most  of  the  singers 
remained  hidden  in  the  crowd,  but  others  proud  of  their 
voice  and  style  planted  themselves  in  the  middle  of  the 
roadway  in  front  of  la  Macarena. 

The  drums  beat  and  the  trumpets  continued  their 
gloomy  blasts,  everybody  sang  at  once,  their  discordant 
voices  mixing  with  the  deafening  instruments,  but  no 


26o  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

one  ever  got  confused,  each  one  sang  straight  through 
his  saeta  without  hesitation  as  if  they  were  all  deaf  to 
other  sounds,  keeping  their  eyes  steadily  fixed  on  the 
image. 

In  front  of  the  paso  walked  barefoot  a  young  man 
dressed  in  a  purple  tunic  and  crowned  with  thorns.  He 
was  bending  beneath  the  weight  of  a  heavy  cross  twice 
as  high  as  himself,  and  when  the  paso  resumed  its  way 
after  a  long  pause,  charitable  souls  helped  him  to  re- 
adjust his  burden. 

The  women  groaned  with  compassion  as  they  saw  him. 
Poor  fellow!  with  what  holy  fervour  he  fulfilled  his 
penance.  All  in  the  suburb  remembered  his  criminal 
sacrilege!     That  cursed  wine  which  was  men's  undoing. 

Three  years  before  on  the  morning  of  Good  Friday, 
when  la  Macarena  was  on  her  way  back  to  her  church, 
this  poor  sinner,  who  in  point  of  fact  was  a  very  good 
sort  of  fellow,  after  wandering  about  the  streets  all  night 
with  his  friends,  had  stopped  the  procession  in  front  of 
a  tavern  in  the  market  place.  He  sang  to  the  Virgin, 
and  then  fired  by  holy  enthusiasm  broke  out  into  com- 
pliments. Ole!  the  beautiful  Macarena!  He  loved  her 
more  than  his  sweetheart!  In  order  to  display  his  de- 
votion he  wished  to  throw  at  her  feet  what  he  held  in 
his  hand,  thinking  that  it  was  his  hat,  but  unfortunately 
it  was  a  glass  which  smashed  itself  on  the  Virgin's 
face.  .  .  .  He  was  carried  off  weeping  to  prison.  He 
did  love  la  Macarena  just  as  if  she  were  his  mother !  It 
was  all  that  cursed  wine  which  took  men's  wits  away! 
He  trembled  at  the  thought  of  the  years  of  jail  awaiting 
him  for  this  disrespect  to  religion,  and  he  wept  so  effec- 
tually that  even  those  who  were  most  indignant  with 
him  ended  by  pleading  in  his  favour,  and  everything  was 
settled  on  his  giving  a  promise  to  perform  some  extra- 
ordinary penance  as  a  warning  to  other  sinners. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  261 

He  dragged  along  the  cross,  perspiring  and  gasping, 
shifting  the  place  of  the  heavy  weight  when  his  shoul- 
ders became  bruised  by  the  sorrowful  burden.  His  com-' 
rades  pitied  him,  and  offered  him  glasses  of  wine,  not  by 
way  of  mockery  of  his  penance,  but  from  sheer  com- 
passion. He  was  fainting  from  fatigue,  he  ought  to 
refresh  himself. 

But  he  turned  his  eyes  from  the  longed-for  refresh- 
ments towards  the  Virgin,  taking  her  as  witness  of  his 
martyrdom.  Never  mind,  he  would  drink  well,  without 
fear,  next  day  when  la  Macarena  was  safely  lodged  in 
her  church. 

The  paso  was  still  in  the  suburb  of  la  Feria,  while  the 
head  of  the  procession  had  reached  the  centre  of  Seville. 
The  green-hooded  brothers  and  the  company  of  armed 
men  marched  forv/ard  with  warlike  astuteness.  It  was  a 
question  of  occupying  la  Campana,  and  so  gaining  pos- 
session of  the  entrance  to  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,^  be- 
fore any  other  brotherhood  could  present  itself.  Once 
the  vanguard  were  in  possession  of  this  point  they  could 
wait  quietly  for  hours  till  the  Virgin  arrived,  enjoying 
the  angry  protests  of  other  brotherhoods,  quite  inferior 
people,  whose  images  could  in  no  way  compare  with 
their  Macarena,  and  who  were  therefore  obliged  to  take 
up  a  humble  position  behind  her. 

Often  the  rabble  escorting  the  different  pasos  came  to 
blows,  heads  were  broken,  and  one  or  two  lads  were 
hurried  off  to  prison  or  to  the  nearest  chemist's  shop. 
Meanwhile  Captain  Chivo  had  executed  his  great  strate- 
gic movement,  occupying  la  Campana  up  to  the  entrance 
of  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes,  to  the  noisy  and  triumphant 

*The  Calle  de  las  Sierpes  is  a  broad  paved  street  through 
•which  there  is  no  vehicular  traffic;  it  leads  out  of  la  Campana, 
which  is  the  upper  end  of  the  long  straggling  Plaza  de  San 
Francisco. 


262  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

roll  of  his  drums.  There  is  no  thoroughfare  here !  Long 
live  the  Virgin  of  la  Macarena! 

The  Calle  de  las  Sierpes  was  turned  into  a  saloon,  its 
balconies  were  full  of  people,  electric  lights  hung  across 
it  from  house  to  house,  all  the  cafes  and  shops  were 
illuminated,  heads  filled  every  window,  and  crowds  of 
people  sat  on  the  rows  of  chairs  placed  against  the  walls, 
on  which  they  stood  up  whenever  a  roll  of  drums  or  the 
blast  of  trumpets  announced  the  coming  of  any  paso. 

That  night  no  one  in  the  town  slept,  even  old  ladies  of 
regular  habits  waited  now  till  dawn  to  watch  the  in- 
numerable processions. 

Although  it  was  now  three  in  the  morning,  nothing 
indicated  the  lateness  of  the  hour.  People  were  feasting 
in  the  cafes  and  taverns,  succulent  odours  escaped 
through  the  doors  of  the  fried  fish  shops ;  in  the  centre 
of  the  street  itinerant  sellers  of  drinks  and  sweets  had 
established  themselves,  and  many  families,  who  only 
came  out  on  great  holidays,  had  been  there  since  two 
o'clock  on  the  previous  afternoon,  waiting  to  watch  the 
endless  passing  of  Virgins  of  bewildering  magnificence, 
whose  velvet  mantles  several  yards  long  drew  forth 
cries  of  admiration,  of  Redeemers  with  golden  crowns 
and  tunics  of  brocade:  a  whole  world  of  absurd  images 
in  theatrical  splendour,  about  which  there  was  nothing 
religious  beyond  their  cadaverous  and  bloody  faces. 

The  Sevillians  in  front  of  the  cafes  pointed  out  the 
pasos  by  name  to  the  foreigners  who  had  come  to  see 
this  strange  Christian  ceremony,  as  lively  as  a  pagan 
holiday. 

They  enumerated  the  paso  of  the  Holy  Decree,  of  the 
Holy  Christ  of  Silence,  of  Our  Lady  of  Bitterness,  of 
Jesus  with  the  Cross  on  His  shoulder,  of  Our  Lady  of 
the  Valley,  of  Our  Father  Jesus  of  the  Three  Falls,  of 
Our  Lady  of  Tears,  of  the  Lord  of  a  Holy  Death,  of  Our 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  263 

Lady  of  the  Three  Necessities,  and  all  these  images  were 
accompanied  by  their  special  Nazarenes,  black  or  white, 
red,  green,  blue  or  violet,  all  masked,  and  preserving 
their  mysterious  personality  beneath  their  pointed  hoods. 

The  heavy  pasos  advanced  slowly  and  laboriously 
through  the  narrow  streets,  but  when  they  emerged  into 
the  Plaza  de  San  Francisco,  opposite  the  boxes  raised 
in  front  of  the  Palace  of  the  Ayuntamiento,  the  pasos 
gave  a  half  turn,  so  that  the  images  might  face  the  seats, 
and  by  a  genuflexion  performed  by  their  porters  salute 
the  illustrious  strangers  or  Royal  personages  who  had 
come  to  see  the  fiesta. 

Alongside  of  the  pasos  walked  lads  carrying  jars  of 
water.  As  soon  as  the  platform  halted,  a  corner  of  the 
velvet  hangings  was  raised,  and  twenty  or  thirty  men 
appeared,  perspiring,  half  naked,  purple  with  fatigue, 
with  kerchiefs  tied  round  their  heads  and  the  look  of 
exhausted  savages.  These  were  the  Gallicians,^  the 
strong  porters,  for  any  of  that  calling  were  merged  in 
that  nationality;  they  drank  the  water  greedily,  and  if 
there  were  a  tavern  at  hand  mutinied  against  the  con- 
ductor of  the  paso  to  obtain  wine  or  food. 

The  crowd  surged  restlessly  with  eager  curiosity  in 
the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes  as  the  pasos  of  the  Macarenos 
came  along  in  a  compact  procession  accompanied  by 
bands  of  music.  The  drums  redoubled  their  beating, 
the  trumpets  roared  furiously,  all  the  tumultuous  crew 
from  the  suburb  shouted  and  yelled,  and  every  one  got 
up  on  the  chairs  in  order  to  see  better  this  slow  but  noisy 
cortege. 

At  the  door  of  a  cafe,  El  Nacional  with  all  his  family 
stood  watching  the  passing  of  the  brotherhood — ''Re- 
trograde superstition!"  .  .  .    But  all  the  same,  he  came 
*  A  class  like  the  French-Auvergnat  water-carriers. 


264  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

every  year  to  watch  this  noisy  invasion  of  the  Calle  de 
las  Sierpes  by  the  Macarenos. 

He  immediately  recognized  Gallardo  from  his  magni- 
ficent stature,  and  the  elegance  with  which  he  wore  the 
inquisitorial  garments. 

"Juanillo,"  cried  he,  "make  the  paso  stop.  Here  are 
some  foreign  ladies  who  would  like  to  see  it  close." 

The  holy  platform  stood  still,  the  band  broke  out  into 
a  spirited  march,  one  of  those  which  delighted  the  public 
at  the  bull-fights,  and  immediately  the  hidden  porters  of 
the  paso  began  to  lift  first  one  foot  then  the  other,  execut- 
ing a  dance  which  made  the  platform  sway  with  violent 
oscillations,  throwing  the  surrounding  people  against  the 
walls.  The  Virgin,  with  all  her  load  of  jewels,  flowers, 
lanthoms,  and  even  the  heaAy  canopy  danced  up  and 
down  to  the  sound  of  the  music.  This  was  a  spectacle 
which  required  immense  practise,  and  of  which  the 
Macarenos  were  extremely  proud.  The  strong  young 
men  of  the  suburb,  holding  on  to  each  side  of  the  paso 
supported  it,  following  its  violent  swaying,  while,  fired 
by  this  display  of  strength  and  dexterity,  they  shouted 
"All  Seville  should  see  this !  .  .  .  This  is  splendid ! 
Only  the  Macarenos  can  do  this !" 

The  brotherhood  continued  their  triumphal  march, 
leaving  deserters  in  every  tavern  and  fallen  all  along  the 
streets.  When  the  sun  rose  it  found  them  at  the  ex- 
treme opposite  end  of  Seville  from  their  own  parish,  and 
the  image  and  its  remaining  supporters  looked  like  a  dis- 
solute band  returning  from  an  orgy. 

Close  to  the  market  place  tlie  two  pasos  stood  deserted, 
while  all  the  procession  took  their  morning  draft  in  the 
adjacent  taverns,  substituting  large  glasses  of  Cazalla 
aguardiente  for  country  wine. 

Of  the  brilliant  Jewish  army  nothing  remained  but 
miserable  relics,  as  if  they  were  straggling  home  after 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  265 

a  defeat.  The  Captain  walked  with  a  sad  stagger,  his 
feathery  plumes  hanging  down  limp  over  his  livid  face, 
and  his  sole  idea  seemed  to  be  to  preserve  his  magni- 
ficent costume  from  dirty  handling.  Respect  the  uni- 
form! 

Gallardo  left  the  procession  soon  after  sunrise.  He 
thought  he  had  done  quite  enough  in  accompanying  the 
Virgin  throughout  the  night,  and  assuredly  she  would 
lay  it  to  his  account.  Besides,  this  last  part  of  the  fiesta 
was  by  far  the  most  trying,  till  the  Macarena  returned 
to  her  church  about  mid-day.  The  people  who  got  up 
fresh  after  a  good  night's  sleep  laughed  at  the  hooded 
brothers,  who  looked  ridiculous  by  daylight,  and  who 
moreover  bore  traces  of  the  drunkenness  smd  dirt  of  the 
night.  It  would  not  be  prudent  for  a  torero  to  be  seen 
with  this  band  of  tipplers  waiting  for  them  at  tavern 
doors. 

Sefiora  Angustias  was  waiting  for  her  son  in  the  patio 
to  assist  the  Nazarene  in  removing  his  garments.  He 
must  rest  now  he  had  accomplished  his  duties  towards 
the  Virgin.  On  Easter  Sunday  there  was  a  corrida,  the 
first  since  his  accident.  Cursed  profession!  In  which 
ease  of  mind  was  impossible.  And  the  poor  women, 
after  a  period  of  tranquillity,  saw  all  their  anguish  and 
terrors  revive. 

Saturday  and  the  morning  of  Sunday  the  torero  spent 
in  receiving  visits  of  enthusiastic  amateurs  who  had 
come  to  Seville  for  the  Holy  Week  and  the  fair.  They 
all  smiled,  confident  in  his  future  exploits. 

"We  shall  see  how  you  fight!  The  'aficion'  has  its 
eyes  on  you !    How  are  you  with  regard  to  strength  ?" 

Gallardo  did  not  distrust  his  vigour.  Those  winter 
months  in  the  country  had  made  him  quite  robust.  He 
was  now  quite  as  strong  as  before  his  "cogida."  The 
only  thing  that  reminded  him  of  his  accident  when  he 


266  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

was  shooting  at  the  farm  was  a  slight  weakness  in  the 
broken  leg.  But  this  was  only  noticeable  after  long 
walks. 

"I  will  do  my  best,"  murmured  Gallardo,  with  feigned 
modesty.    "I  hope  I  shall  not  come  out  of  it  badly." 

The  manager  intervened  with  the  blindness  of  his 
faith. 

"You  will  fight  like  an  angel !  .  .  .  You  will  put  all 
the  bulls  in  your  pocket!" 

Gallardo's  admirers,  forgetting  the  corrida  for  a  mo- 
ment, spoke  about  a  piece  of  news  flying  round  the 
town. 

On  a  mountain  in  the  province  of  Cordoba  the  civil 
guards  had  found  a  decomposed  body,  with  the  head 
almost  blown  to  pieces,  apparently  by  a  point  blank  shot. 
It  was  impossible  to  recognize  it,  but  its  clothes,  the  car- 
bine, ever}-thing  in  short,  made  them  think  it  must  be 
Plumitas. 

Gallardo  listened  silently.  He  had  not  seen  the  bandit 
since  his  accident,  but  he  kept  a  kindly  remembrance  of 
him.  His  farm  people  had  told  him  that  twice  while 
he  was  in  danger,  Plumitas  had  called  at  the  farm  to 
enquire  about  him.  Afterwards,  while  he  was  staying 
there  himself,  on  several  occasions  his  shepherds  and 
workmen  had  spoken  mysteriously  of  Plumitas,  who, 
knowing  he  was  at  la  Rinconada,  had  asked  for  news 
of  Senor  Juan  when  he  met  them  on  the  road. 

Poor  fellow !  Gallardo  pitied  him  as  he  remembered 
his  predictions.  The  civil  guards  had  not  killed  him. 
He  had  been  murdered  during  his  sleep;  probably  he 
had  been  shot  by  one  of  his  own  class,  some  amateur 
who  wished  to  follow  in  his  footsteps. 

His  departure  for  the  corrida  on  Sunday  was  even 
more  painful  than  on  former  occasions.  Carmen  did 
her  best  to  be  calm  and  help  Garabato  to  dress  his  mas- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  267 

ter,  and  Seiiora  Angustias  hovered  outside  the  room 
longing  to  see  Juanillo  once  more  as  if  she  were  going 
to  lose  him. 

Wheii  Gallardo  came  out  into  the  patio  with  his  mon- 
tera  on  his  head,  and  his  beautiful  cape  thrown  over  one 
shoulder,  his  mother  threw  her  arms  round  his  neck 
dissolved  in  tears.  She  did  not  utter  a  word,  but  her 
noisy  sighs  revealed  her  thoughts.  He  was  going  to 
fight  for  thk'  first  time  since  his  accident,  and  in  the  same 
Plaza  where  it  had  happened !  The  superstitions  of  this 
woman  of  the  people  rose  up  against  such  imprudence! 
.  .  .  Ay!  when  would  he  retire  from  this  cursed  pro- 
fession?   Had  they  not  yet  money  enough? 

But  his  brother-in-law  interfered  in  his  capacity  of 
family  adviser. 

Now  then,  little  mother,  it  was  not  such  a  great  thing 
aftef  all,  it  was  only  a  corrida  like  any  other.  The  best 
they  could  do  was  to  leave  Juan  in  peace,  and  not  upset 
his  calmness  by  this  snivelling  just  as  he  was  going  to 
the  Plaza. 

Carmen  was  braver,  she  did  not  cry,  and  accompanied 
her  husband  to  the  door,  wishing  to  encourage  him. 
Now  that,  in  consequence  of  his  accident,  love  had  re- 
vived, and  they  lived  quietly  together,  she  could  not  be- 
lieve that  any  accident  would  occur  to  disturb  them* 
That  accident  was  God's  work,  who  often  brings  good 
out  of  evil.  Juan  would  fight  as  on  other  occasions  and 
would  return  home  safe  and  sound. 

"Good  luck  to  you!" 

She  watched  the  departure  of  the  carriage  with  loving 
eyes  as  it  drove  away,  followed  by  a  crowd  of  little  raga- 
muffins, delighted  at  the  sight  of  the  torero's  golden 
clothes.  But  when  the  poor  woman  was  alone  she  went 
up  to  her  room,  and  lighted  the  tapers  before  an  image 
of  the  Virgin  of  Hope. 


268  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

El  Nacional  rode  in  the  coach,  frowning  and  gloomy 
That  Sunday  was  the  day  of  the  elections,  and  none  oi 
his  companions  of  the  cuadrilla  had  taken  any  notice 
of  it.  They  would  do  nothing  but  talk  of  the  death  of 
Plumitas  and  the  approaching  bull-fight.  It  was  too  bad 
to  have  his  functions  as  a  good  citizen,  interrupted  by 
this  corrida,  preventing  him  carrying  off  several  friends 
to  the  voting  urn,  who  w^ould  not  go  unless  he  took  them. 
Don  Joselito  had  been  imprisoned,  with  other  friends, 
on  account  of  his  eloquence  on  the  tribunes,  and  El 
Nacional,  who  wished  to  share  his  mart>'rdom,  had  been 
obliged  to  put  on  his  gala  costume  instead  and  go  off  with 
his  master.  Was  this  assault  on  the  liberty  of  citizens 
to  remain  unnoticed?    Would  not  the  people  rise?  .  .  . 

As  the  coach  drove  along  through  la  Campana,  the 
toreros  saw  a  large  crowd  of  people,  apparently  shouting 
seditiously  and  waving  their  sticks.  The  police  agents 
were  charging  them  sword  in  hand,  and  a  free  fight 
seemed  in  progress. 

El  Nacional  rose  from  his  seat  trying  to  throw  himself 
out  of  the  carriage.  Ah!  At  last!  The  moment  has 
come !  .  .  .  The  revolution !  Now  the  populace  is  ris- 
ing! 

But  his  master  half  laughing,  half  angry,  seized  him 
and  pushed  him  back  in  his  seat. 

"Don't  be  an  idiot,  Sebastian!  You  only  see  revolu- 
tions and  hobgoblins  ever}  where  \" 

The  rest  of  the  cuadrilla  laughed  as  they  guessed  the 
truth.  The  noble  people,  being  unable  to  obtain  tickets  for 
the  corrida  at  the  office  in  la  Campana  were  tr}'ing  to 
take  it  by  storm,  and  set  fire  to  it,  being  prevented  by 
the  police.     El  Nacional  bent  his  head  sorrowfully. 

"Reaction  and  ignorance !  All  the  want  of  knowing 
how  to  read  and  write!" 

A  noisy  ovation  awaited  them  as  they  arrived  at  the 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  269 

Plaza,  and  frantic  rounds  of  clapping  greeted  the  pro- 
cession of  the  cuadrilla.  All  the  applause  was  for  Gal- 
lardo.  The  public  welcomed  his  reappearance  in  the 
arena,  after  that  tremendous  "cogida"  which  had  been 
talked  of  all  over  the  Peninsula. 

When  the  time  came  for  Gallardo  to  kill  his  first  bull, 
the  explosions  of  enthusiasm  recommenced.  Women  in 
white  mantillas:  followed  him  with  their  opera-glasses. 
He  was  applauded  and  acclaimed  on  the  sunny  side,  just 
as  much  as  on  the  shady  side.  Even  his  enemies  seemed 
influenced  by  this  current  of  sympathy.  Poor  fellow! 
He  had  suffered  so  much!  .  .  .  The  whole  Plaza  was 
his.  Never  had  Gallardo  seen  an  audience  so  completely 
his  own. 

He  took  off  his  montera  before  the  presidential  chair 
to  give  the  ''brindis."  "Ole!  Ole!"  Nobody  heard  a 
word,  but  they  all  yelled  enthusiastically.  The  applause 
followed  him  as  he  went  towards  the  bull,  ceasing  in  a 
silence  of  expectation  ds  he  approached  it. 

He  unfolded  his  muleta,  standing  in  front  of  the  ani- 
mal, but  at  some  distance,  not  as  in  former  days,  when 
he  fired  the  people  by  spreading  the  red  rag  almost  on 
its  muzzle.  In  the  silence  of  the  Plaza  there  was  a 
movement  of  surprize,  but  no  one  uttered  a  word.  Sev- 
eral time  Gallardo  stamped  on  the  ground  to  excite  the 
beast,  who  at  last  attacked  feebly,  passing  under  the 
muleta,  but  the  torero  drew  himself  on  one  side  with 
visible  haste.  Many  on  the  benches  looked  at  each 
other,     W'hat  did  that  mean? 

The  espada  saw  El  Nacional  by  his  side  and  a  few 
steps  further  back  another  peon,  but  he  did  not  shout 
as  formerly,  "Every  one  out  of  the  way!" 

From  the  benches  arose  the  sound  of  sharp  discus- 
sions. Even  the  torero's  friends  thought  some  explana- 
tion necessary. 


270  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"He  still  feels  his  wounds.  He  ought  not  to  fight 
That  leg!  don't  you  see  it?" 

The  capes  of  the  two  peons  helped  the  espada  in  his 
passes ;  the  beast  was  restless,  bewildered  by  the  red 
cloths,  and  as  soon  as  it  charged  the  muleta,  some  other 
cape  attracted  it  away  from  the  torero. 

Gallardo,  as  if  he  wished  to  get  out  of  this  disagree- 
able situation,  squared  himself  with  his  rapier  high, 
and  threw  himself  on  the  bull. 

A  murmur  of  absolute  stupefaction  greeted  the  stroke. 
The  blade  entering  only  a  third  of  its  length  trembled, 
ready  to  fly  out.  Gallardo  had  slipped  out  from  between 
the  horns,  without  driving  the  blade  in  up  to  the  hilt 
as  in  former  days. 

"The  stroke  was  well  placed  all  the  same!"  shouted 
the  enthusiasts,  clapping  as  hard  as  they  could,  so  that 
their  noise  should  supply  the  place  of  numbers. 

But  the  connoisseurs  smiled  with  pity.  That  lad  was 
going  to  lose  the  only  merit  he  possessed,  his  nerve  and 
daring.  They  had  seen  him  instinctively  shorten  his 
arm  at  the  moment  of  striking  the  bull  with  the  rapier, 
and  they  had  seen  him  turn  his  face  aside,  with  that 
shrinking  of  fear  which  prevents  a  man  looking  danger 
full  in  the  face. 

The  rapier  rolled  on  the  ground,  and  Gallardo,  taking 
another,  turned  again  towards  the  bull  accompanied  by 
his  peons.  El  Nacional's  cape  was  constantly  spread 
close  to  him  to  distract  the  beast,  and  the  banderillero's 
bellowing  bewildered  it,  and  made  it  turn,  whenever  it 
approached  Gallardo  too  closely. 

The  second  estocade  was  scarcely  more  fortunate 
than  the  first,  as  more  than  half  the  blade  remained  un- 
covered. 

"He  does  not  lean  on  it!"  They  began  to  shout  from 
the  benches.     "The  horns  frighten  him." 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  271 

Gallardo  opened  his  arms  like  a  cross  in  front  of  the 
bull,  to  show  the  public  behind  him,  that  the  bull  had 
had  enough  and  might  fall  at  any  moment.  But  the 
animal  still  remained  on  foot,  moving  its  head  about 
uneasil}^  from  side  to  side. 

El  Nacional,  exciting  him  with  the  rag,  made  him  run, 
taking  advantage  of  every  opportunity  to  hit  him  heavily 
on  the  neck  with  his  cape  with  all  the  strength  of  his 
arm.  The  populace,  guessing  his  intention,  began  to 
abuse  him.  He  was  making  the  brute  run  in  order  that 
the  sword  should  fix  itself  in  firmer,  and  his  heavy  blows 
with  the  cape  were  to  drive  it  in  deeper.  They  called 
him  a  thief,  abusing  his  mother  and  other  relations, 
threatening  sticks  were  flourished  on  the  sunny  side,  and 
a  shower  of  bottles,  oranges  and  any  missiles  to  hand 
showered  down  on  the  arena,  with  the  intention  of  strik- 
ing him,  but  the  good  fellow  bore  all  the  insults  as  if 
he  were  blind  and  deaf,  and  he  continued  following  up 
the  bull,  happy  in  fulfilling  his  duties  and  saving  a  friend. 

Suddenly  a  stream  of  blood  gushed  from  the  brute's 
mouth,  and  he  quietly  bent  his  knees,  remaining  motion- 
less, but  still  with  his  head  high  as  if  he  intended  to  rise 
again  and  attack.  The  puntillero  came  up  anxious  to 
finish  him  as  quickly  as  possible  and  get  the  espada  out 
of  the  difficulty.  El  Nacional  helped  him  by  leaning  fur- 
tively on  the  sword  and  driving  it  in  up  to  the  hilt. 

Unluckily  the  populace  on  the  sunny  side  saw  this 
manoeuvre  and  rose  to  their  feet  transported  with  rage, 
howling : 

*Thief!    Assassin!" 

They  were  furious  in  the  name  of  the  poor  bull,  as  if 
he  had  not  to  die  in  any  case,  and  they  shook  their  fists 
threateningly  at  El  Nacional,  as  if  he  had  committed 
some  crime  under  their  very  eyes,  and  the  banderillero, 
ashamed,  ended  by  taking  refuge  behind  the  barriers. 


2^2  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Gallardo  in  the  meanwhile  walked  towards  the  presi- 
dent's chair  to  salute,  while  his  unreasoning  partizans 
accompanied  him  with  applause  as  noisy  as  it  was  ill 
supported. 

"He  had  no  luck,"  said  they,  proof  against  all  disil- 
lusions. "The  estocades  were  well  placed !  No  one  can 
deny  that." 

The  espada  stood  for  a  few  moments  opposite  the 
benches  where  his  most  fervent  partizans  were  seated, 
and  leaning  on  the  barrier  he  explained,  *Tt  was  a  very 
bad  bull.  There  had  been  no  means  of  making  a  good 
job  of  it." 

The  partizans,  with  Don  Jose  at  their  head,  assented. 
It  was  just  what  they  had  thought  themselves. 

Gallardo  remained  the  greater  part  of  the  corrida  by 
the  step  of  the  barrier,  plunged  in  gloomy  thought.  It 
was  all  ver}^  well  making  these  explanations  to  his 
friends,  but  he  felt  a  cruel  doubt  in  his  own  mind,  a 
distrust  of  his  own  powers  that  he  had  never  felt  before. 

The  bulls  seemed  to  him  bigger,  and  endowed  with  a 
"double  life,"  which  made  them  refuse  to  die,  whereas 
formerly  they  had  fallen  under  his  rapier  with  miracu- 
lous facility.  Indubitably  they  had  loosed  the  worst  of 
the  herd  for  him,  to  do  him  an  evil  turn.  Some  intrigue 
of  his  enemies  most  probably. 

Other  suspicions,  too,  rose  confusedly  from  the  depths 
of  his  mind,  but  he  scarcely  dared  to  drag  them  out  of 
their  darkness  and  verify  them.  His  arm  seemed  shorter 
at  the  moment  when  he  presented  the  rapier  in  front  of 
him;  formerly  it  had  reached  the  brute's  neck  with  the 
quickness  of  lightning,  now  there  seemed  a  fearful  and 
interminable  space  that  he  knew  not  how  to  cover.  His 
legs  too  seemed  different.  They  seemed  to  be  free  and 
independent  of  the  rest  of  his  body.  In  vain  his  will  or- 
dered them  to  remain  calm  and  firm  as  in  former  days. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  273 

but  they  did  not  obey.  They  seemed  to  have  eyes  which 
saw  the  danger,  and  leapt  aside  with  exceeding  lightness 
as  soon  as  they  felt  the  brute  charging. 

Gallardo  turned  against  the  public  the  rage  he  felt  at 
his  failure,  and  his  sudden  weakness.  What  did  those 
people  want?  Was  he  to  let  himself  be  killed  for  their 
pleasure?  .  .  .  Did  he  not  carry  marks  enough  of  his 
mad  daring  on  his  body?  He  had  no  need  to  prove  his 
courage.  That  he  was  still  alive  was  a  miracle  and 
owing  to  celestial  intervention,  because  God  is  good,  and 
had  listened  to  the  prayers  of  his  mother  and  his  poor 
wife.  He  had  seen  the  fleshless  face  of  Death  closer  than 
most  people,  and  he  now  knew  better  than  any  one  the 
value  of  living. 

*Tf  you  think  you  are  going  to  have  my  skin !"  he  said 
to  himself  as  he  looked  at  the  crowd. 

In  future  he  would  fight  much  as  his  companions  did. 
Some  days  he  would  do  well,  some  days  ill.  After  all 
bull-fighting  was  only  a  profession,  and  once  one  had 
got  into  the  front  rank  the  most  important  thing  was  to 
live,  carrying  out  one's  engagements  as  best  one  could. 

When  the  time  came  for  him  to  kill  his  second  bull 
his  cogitations  had  brought  him  into  a  calmer  frame  of 
mind.  There  was  no  animal  that  could  kill  him !  All 
the  same,  he  would  do  what  he  could  not  to  get  within 
reach  of  the  horns. 

As  he  went  towards  the  bull,  he  carried  himself  with 
the  same  proud  bearing  as  on  his  best  afternoons. 

"Out  of  the  way,  everybody!" 

The  audience  rustled  with  a  murmur  of  satisfaction. 
He  had  said  .  .  .  "Out  of  the  way,  everybody!"  He 
was  going  to  repeat  one  of  his  old  strokes. 

But  what  the  public  hoped  for  did  not  happen,  neither 
did  El  Nacional  cease  to  follow  him  with  his  cape  on 
his  arm,  guessing  with  the  knowledge  of  an  old  peon, 


274  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

accustomed  to  the  bombast  of  matadors,  the  theatrical 
hollowness  of  that  order. 

Gallardo  spread  his  cape  at  some  distance  from  the 
bull,  and  began  the  passes  with  visible  apprehension,  al- 
ways helped  by  Sebastian's  cape. 

Once  when  the  muleta  remained  low  for  an  instant,  tke 
bull  moved  as  if  intending  to  charge ;  he  did  not,  but  the 
espada,  over  and  above  alert,  deceived  by  this  move- 
ment, took  a  few  steps  back,  which  were  real  bounds, 
flying  from  an  animal  which  did  not  intend  to  attack 
him. 

This  unnecessary  retreat  placed  him  in  a  very  ridicu- 
lous position,  and  the  crowd  laughed  with  surprise,  and 
many  whistles  were  heard. 

"Hey !  he's  catching  you !"  .  .  .  yelled  an  ironical 
voice. 

"Poor  dear!"  cried  another  in  comically  feminine 
tones. 

Gallardo  crimsoned  with  anger.  This  to  him!  And 
in  the  Plaza  of  Seville!  He  felt  the  proud  heart-throb 
of  his  early  days,  a  mad  desire  to  fall  wildly  on  the  bull, 
and  let  what  God  would  happen.  But  his  limbs  refused 
to  obey.  His  arms  seemed  to  think,  his  legs  to  see  the 
danger. 

But  with  a  sudden  reaction  at  these  insults,  the  au- 
dience themselves  came  to  his  assistance  and  imposed 
silence.  What  a  shame  to  treat  a  man  like  this,  who  was 
only  just  convalescent  from  his  serious  wounds !  It  was 
unworthy  of  the  Plaza  of  Seville!  At  least  let  them 
observe  decency ! 

Gallardo  took  advantage  of  this  expression  of  s^»m- 
pathy  to  get  out  of  the  difficulty.  Approaching  the  bull 
sideways  he  gave  him  a  treacherous  and  crossways 
stroke.  The  animal  fell  like  a  beast  at  the  shambles,  a 
torrent  of  blood  rushing  from  his  mouth.     Some  ap- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  275 

plauded,  others  whistled,  but  the  great  mass  remained 
gloomily  silent. 

"They  have  loosed  you  treacherous  curs!"  cried  his 
manager  from  his  seat,  in  spite  of  the  corrida  being 
supplied  from  the  Marquis'  herds.  "These  are  not  bulls ! 
We  shall  see  a  difference  when  they  are  noble  'bichos,* 
bulls  *of  truth.' " 

As  he  left  the  Plaza,  Gallardo  could  gauge  the  dis- 
content of  the  people  by  their  silence.  Many  groups 
passed  him,  but  not  a  salutation,  not  an  acclamation, 
such  as  he  had  always  received  on  his  lucky  days. 

The  espada  tasted  for  the  first  time  the  bitterness  of 
failure.  Even  his  banderilleros  were  frowning  and  silent 
like  defeated  soldiers.  But  when  he  got  home  and  felt 
his  mother's  arms  round  his  neck,  and  the  caresses  of 
Carmen  and  the  little  nephews,  his  sadness  vanished. 
Curse  it  all !  .  .  .  The  really  important  thing  was  to  live 
that  the  family  should  be  quiet  and  happy,  and  to  earn 
the  public's  money  without  any  foolhardiness,  which 
must  lead  to  death. 

On  the  following  days  he  recognized  the  necessity  of 
showing  himself,  and  of  talking  with  his  friends  in  the 
people's  cafes  and  in  the  clubs  of  the  Calle  de  las  Sierpes. 
He  thought  that  his  presence  would  impose  a  courteous 
silence  on  evil  speakers,  and  cut  short  commentaries  on 
his  fiasco.  He  spent  whole  afternoons  amid  the  poorer 
afficionados  whom  he  had  neglected  for  so  long,  while 
he  cultivated  the  friendship  of  the  richer  class.  After- 
wards he  went  to  the  "Forty-five,"  where  his  manager 
was  enforcing  his  opinions  by  shouts  and  thumps,  main- 
taining as  ever  the  superiority  of  Gallardo. 

Excellent  Don  Jose!  His  enthusiasm  was  immutable, 
bomb  proof.  It  never  could  occur  to  him  that  his  mata- 
dor could  possibly  cease  to  be  as  he  had  always  been. 
He  did  not  oifer  a  single  criticism  on  his  fiasco;  on  the 


276  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

contrary,  he  himself  endeavoured  to  find  excuses,  min- 
ghng  with  them  the  comfort  of  his  good  advice. 

"You  still  feel  your  'cogida.'  What  I  say  is:  *You 
v^^ill  all  see  him,  when  he  is  quite  cured,  and  then  you 
will  give  me  news  of  him.'  Do  as  you  did  formerly.  Go 
straight  to  the  bull  with  that  courage  which  God  has 
given  you,  and  Zas !  plunge  the  blade  in  up  to  the  cross 
.  .  .  and  you  put  him  in  your  pocket." 

Gallardo  assented  with  an  enigmatic  smile  .  .  .  Put 
the  bulls  in  his  pocket!  He  wished  for  nothing  better. 
But  ay!  lately  they  had  become  so  big  and  so  intract- 
able !  They  had  grown  so  enormously  since  he  last  trod 
the  arena! 

Gambling  was  Gallardo's  consiJation,  making  him  for- 
get his  anxieties  for  the  moment ;  and  with  fresh  energy 
he  returned  to  the  green  table  to  lose  his  mone>,  sur 
rounded  by  his  former  friends,  who  did  not  care  in  the 
least  about  his  failures  as  long  as  he  was  an  "elegant" 
torero. 

One  night  they  all  went  to  supper  at  the  inn  at  Eri- 
tana,  a  festivity  given  in  honour  of  some  foreign  ladies 
of  gay  life,  with  whom  some  of  the  young  men  had 
become  acquainted  in  Paris.  They  had  come  to  Seville 
in  order  to  see  the  festival  of  the  Holy  Week  and  the 
fair,  and  were  anxious  to  see  all  that  was  most  pictur- 
esque in  the  place. 

Consequently  they  wished  to  become  acquainted  with 
the  celebrated  torero,  the  most  elegant  of  all  the  espadas, 
that  Gallardo  whose  portrait  they  had  so  often  admired 
in  popular  prints  and  on  the  tops  of  match-boxes. 

The  gathering  was  held  in  the  large  dining-room  of 
Eritana,  a  pavilion  in  the  gardens,  decorated  in  extreme- 
ly bad  taste  with  vulgar  imitations  of  the  Moorish  splen- 
dours of  the  Alhambra. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  277 

Gallardo  was  greeted  as  a  demigod  by  these  three 
women,  who,  ignoring  their  other  friends,  quarrelled 
for  the  honour  of  sitting  beside  him.  In  a  way  they 
reminded  him  of  the  absent  one,  with  their  golden  hair 
and  elegant  dresses,  and  their  all-pervading  perfumes 
produced  a  kind  of  bewilderment. 

The  presence  of  his  friends  helped  to  make  the  re- 
membrance still  more  vivid.  All  were  friends  of  Dona 
Sol,  many  even  belonged  to  her  family,  and  he  had  come 
to  look  on  these  as  relations. 

They  all  ate  and  drank  with  that  almost  savage  vo- 
racity usual  at  nocturnal  feasts,  where  every  one  goes 
with  the  fullest  intention  of  exceeding  in  everything,  a 
gipsy  band  stationed  at  the  further  end  of  the  room 
intoning  their  somewhat  melancholy  songs,  varied  by 
sprightly  dance  music,  added  to  the  general  hilarity. 

By  midnight  all  were  more  or  less  tipsy,  but  Gallardo 
in  his  cups  was  sad  and  gloomy.  Ay!  for  that  other 
one  .  .  .  for  the  real  gold  of  her  hair !  The  golden  hair 
of  these  women  was  artificial,  their  skin  was  thick  and 
coarse,  hardened  by  cosmetics,  and  through  all  their  per- 
fumes his  imagination  detected  an  atmosphere  of  innate 
vulgarity.     Ay!  for  that  other  one  .  .  .  that  other  one. 

Gallardo  drank  deeper  and  deeper,  and  the  women 
who  had  quarrelled  for  a  place  by  his  side,  finding  him 
dull  and  unresponsive,  now  turned  their  backs  with  in- 
sulting taunts  on  his  gloom.  The  guitarists  scarcely 
played  any  longer,  but,  overcome  with  wine,  bent  drow- 
sily over  their  instruments. 

The  torero  was  also  nearly  falling  asleep  on  a  bench, 
when  one  of  his  friends  offered  to  give  him  a  lift  home  in 
his  carriage;  he  was  obliged  to  leave  early  so  as  to  be 
home  before  the  old  Countess,  his  mother,  arose  to  hear 
Mass,  as  she  did  daily,  at  dawn. 

The  night  wind  did  not  disperse  the  torero's  drunken- 


278  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ness.  When  his  friend  dropped  him  at  the  corner  of  his 
own  street,  Gallardo  turned  with  unsteady  steps  towards 
his  house.  Close  to  the  door  he  stopped,  leaning  against 
the  wall  with  both  hands,  resting  his  head  on  his  arms 
as  though  he  could  no  longer  endure  the  weight  of  his 
thoughts. 

He  had  completely  forgotten  his  friends,  the  supper  at 
Eritana,  and  the  painted  strangers,  who  had  begun  by 
quarrelling  for  him  and  who  had  ended  by  insulting  him. 
Some  memory  of  the  other  one  still  floated  through  his 
mind,  that  always  !  .  .  .  but  vaguely,  and  at  last  that,  too, 
faded.  Now  his  thoughts,  by  one  of  the  capricious 
turns  of  drunkenness,  were  entirely  filled  by  memories 
of  the  bull-ring. 

He  was  the  first  Matador  in  the  world.  Ole!  so  his 
manager  and  his  friends  declared,  and  it  was  the  truth. 
His  enemies  would  see  a  fine  sight  when  he  returned  to 
the  Plaza.  What  had  happened  the  other  day  was  only 
an  accident,  a  trick  that  bad  luck  had  played  him. 

Proud  of  the  overpowering  strength  that  the  excite- 
ment of  wine  had  momentarily  given  him,  he  imagined 
all  the  Andalusian  and  Castillian  bulls  to  be  like  feeble 
goats  that  he  could  overthrow  with  a  single  blow  from 
his  hand. 

What  had  happened  the  other  day  was  really  nothing. 
Rubbish!  ...  As  El  Nacional  said,  "From  the  best 
singer  there  sometimes  escapes  a  cock-crow." 

And  this  proverb,  heard  from  the  lips  of  many  vener- 
able patriarchs  of  his  profession  on  days  of  disaster, 
inspired  him  with  an  irresistible  desire  to  sing,  to  fill  the 
silence  of  the  street  with  his  voce. 

With  his  head  still  leaning  on  his  arms,  he  began  to 
croon  a  verse  of  his  own  composition,  one  of  overween- 
ing praise  of  his  own  merit. 

"I  am  Juaniyo  Gallardo  .  .  . 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  279 

Who  has  more  c  .  .  .  c  .  .  .  courage  than  God," 
and  being  unable  to  improvise  more  in  his  own  honour, 
he  repeated  the  same  words  again  and  again  in  a  hoarse 
and  monotonous  voice,  which  disturbed  the  silence,  and 
made  an  invisible  dog  at  the  end  of  the  street  bark. 

It  was  the  paternal  inheritance  springing  up  afresh 
in  him;  that  singing  mania  which  had  always  accom- 
panied Sefior  Juan  in  his  weekly  outbreaks. 

The  door  of  the  house  opened,  and  Garabato  pushed 
out  his  sleepy  head,  to  have  a  look  at  the  toper  whose 
voice  he  thought  he  recognised. 

"Ah !  is  that  you  ?"  said  the  espada,  "wait  a  bit  while 
I  sing  the  last." 

And  he  repeated  several  times  the  incomplete  ditty 
in  honour  of  his  own  bravery,  till  at  last  he  made  up 
his  mind  to  go  into  the  house. 

He  felt  no  desire  to  go  to  bed.  Guessing  his  condition 
he  put  off  the  time  when  he  would  have  to  go  up  to  hia 
own  room,  where  Carmen  would  probably  be  awake  and 
waiting  for  him. 

"Go  to  sleep,  Garabato;  I  have  a  great  many  things 
to  do." 

He  did  not  know  what  they  were,  but  he  was  attracted 
by  the  look  of  his  office,  with  its  decoration  of  life-like 
portraits,  f rontals  won  from  bulls,  and  placards  proclaim- 
ing his  fame. 

When  the  electric  light  was  turned  on  and  the  servant 
moved  away,  Gallardo  stood  swaying  unsteadily  on  his 
legs  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  casting  admiring  glances 
over  the  walls,  as  though  he  were  contemplating  for  the 
first  time  this  museum  of  his  triumphs. 

"Very  good.  Very  good,  indeed!"  he  murmured. 
"That  handsome  fellow  is  me,  and  that  other  one  too, 
all  of  them !    And  yet  some  people  say  of  me  ...    Curse 


28o  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

it  all !  I  am  the  first  man  in  the  world.  Don  Jose  says 
so,  and  he  speaks  the  truth." 

He  threw  his  sombrero  on  to  a  divan,  as  if  he  were 
divesting  himself  of  a  glorious  crown  which  oppressed 
his  brow,  and  went  staggering  to  lean  with  both  hands 
on  the  writing  bureau,  fixing  his  eyes  on  the  enormous 
bull's  head  which  decorated  the  further  end  of  the  office. 

"Hola !  Good  night,  my  fine  fellow !  .  .  .  What  are 
you  doing  here?  .  .  .    Muu !  Muu!" 

He  saluted  the  head  with  bellowings,  imitating  child- 
ishly the  lowing  of  the  bulls  on  their  pastures  and  in 
the  Plaza.  He  did  not  recognize  it ;  he  could  not  remem- 
ber why  the  shagg}""  head  with  its  threatening  horns 
should  be  there.  But  by  degrees  the  memory  came  back 
to  him. 

"I  know,  you  rascal.  ...  I  remember  how  you  made 
me  rage  that  afternoon.  The  crowd  whistled  at  me  and 
pelted  me  with  bottles  .  .  .  they  even  insulted  my  poor 
mother,  and  you!  .  .  .  you  were  so  pleased!  .  .  .  How 
you  did  enjoy  it!     Eh,  shameless  one?"  .  .  . 

His  drunken  glance  thought  he  saw  the  brightly  var- 
nished muzzle  twitch,  and  the  glass  eyes  flash  with  peals 
of  concentrated  laughter;  he  even  thought  that  the 
homed  head  was  nodding  an  acknowledgment  to  his 
question. 

The  drunken  man  up  to  now  smiling  and  good  hu- 
moured, suddenly  felt  his  anger  rise  at  the  remembrance 
of  that  afternoon's  disgrace.  And  was  that  evil  beast 
still  laughing  at  it?  .  .  .  Those  bulls  with  perverse 
minds,  so  cunning  and  reflective,  were  the  evil  causes  of 
a  worthy  man  being  insulted  and  turned  into  ridicule. 
Ay !  how  Gallardo  hated  them !  What  a  glance  of  hatred 
was  his  as  he  fixed  it  on  the  glassy  eyes  of  the  homed 
head. 

"Are  you  still  laughing,  you  son  of  a  dog?  Curse  you, 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  281 

rascal!  Cursed  be  the  dam  that  bore  you,  and  the  thief 
your  master  who  grazed  you  on  the  pastures!  Would 
to  God  he  were  in  jail.  .  .  .  Are  you  still  laughing? 
Still  making  grimaces  at  me?" 

Impelled  by  his  ungovernable  rage,  he  leant  over  the 
desk,  and  stretching  out  his  arm  opened  a  drawer.  Then 
he  drew  himself  up  erect,  and  raised  one  hand  towards 
the  head. 

Pum!  Pum  .  .  .  two  revolver  shots. 

In  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  one  of  the  electric  globes 
was  smashed  to  fragments,  and  in  the  bull's  forehead  a 
round  black  hole  appeared  surrounded  by  singed  hair. 


N.B. — This  anecdote  is  related  as  true  of  Frascuelo. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

In  the  middle  of  spring  the  temperature  suddenly  fell, 
with  the  violent  extremes  of  the  uncertain  and  fickle 
Madrid  climate. 

It  was  very  cold.  A  grey  sky  poured  down  torrents  of 
rain,  mingled  with  flakes  of  snow,  and  people  who  were 
already  dressed  in  their  light  clothes,  opened  boxes  and 
cupboards  in  search  of  cloaks  and  wraps. 

For  two  weeks  there  had  been  no  function  in  the 
Plaza  de  Toros.  The  Sunday  corrida  had  been  fixed 
for  the  first  weekday  on  which  it  should  be  fine.  The 
manager,  the  employes  of  the  Plaza  and  the  innumer- 
able amateurs  whom  this  enforced  inaction  put  out  of 
temper,  watched  the  sky  with  the  anxiety  of  peasants 
who  are  fearing  for  their  harvest.  A  slight  rent  in  the 
sky  or  the  appearance  of  a  few  stars  as  they  left  their 
cafes  at  midnight  raised  their  spirits. 

"The  weather  is  lifting  .  .  .  We  shall  have  a  corrida 
the  day  after  to-morrow." 

But  the  clouds  rolled  together  again,  and  the  leaden 
sky  continued  to  pour  down  its  torrents.  The  aficion- 
ados were  furious  with  the  weather,  which  seemed  to 
have  set  itself  against  the  national  sport.  Horrid  cli- 
mate !  which  made  even  corridas  impossible. 

Gallardo  had,  therefore,  a  fortnight  of  enforced  rest. 
His  cuadrilla  complained  bitterly  of  the  inaction.  In 
any  other  town  in  Spain  the  men  would  have  resigned 
themselves  to  the  detention,  because  the  espada  paid  all 
their  hotel  expenses  in  every  place  but  Madrid.     It  was 

282 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  283 

a  bad  custom  initiated  by  former  maestros  living  near 
the  capital.  It  was  supposed  that  the  proper  domicile 
of  every  real  torero  was  in  la  Corte/  and  the  poor  peons 
and  picadors,  who  lodged  in  a  boarding-house  kept  by 
the  widow  of  a  banderillero,  eked  out  their  existence  by 
all  sorts  of  petty  economies,  smoking  but  little,  and 
standing  outside  the  cafe  doors.  They  thought  of  their 
families  with  the  avarice  of  men  who  only  receive  a  few 
coins  in  exchange  for  their  blood.  By  the  time  these 
two  corridas  had  come  off  they  would  already  have  de- 
voured their  earnings  in  anticipation. 

The  espada  was  equally  ill-humoured  in  the  solitude 
of  his  hotel,  not  on  account  of  the  weather,  but  on  ac- 
count of  his  ill  luck. 

He  had  fought  his  first  corrida  in  Madrid  with  deplor- 
able results,  and  the  public  were  quite  different  to  him. 
He  still  had  many  partizans  of  unquenchable  faith,  who 
rose  in  arms  for  his  defence,  but  even  those  enthusiasts, 
so  noisy  and  aggressive  the  previous  year,  now  showed  a 
certain  reserve,  and  when  they  found  occasion  to  applaud 
him  they  did  so  timidly.  On  the  other  hand,  his  enemies 
and  the  great  mass  of  the  populace  always  anxious  for 
danger  and  death,  how  unjust  they  were  in  their  judg- 
ments !  .  .  .  How  ready  to  insult  him !  .  .  .  What  was 
tolerated  in  other  matadors  seemed  vetoed  for  him. 

They  had  seen  him  full  of  courage,  throwing  himself 
blindly  into  danger,  and  so  they  wished  him  to  be  al- 
ways, till  death  should  cut  short  his  career.  He  had 
played  almost  suicidally  with  fate,  when  he  was  anxious 
to  make  a  name  for  himself,  and  now  people  could  not 
reconcile  themselves  to  his  prudence.  Insults  were  al- 
ways hurled  at  any  attempt  at  self  preservation.  As 
certainly  as  he  spread  the  muleta  at  a  certain  distance 
from  the  bull,  so  certainly  the  protests  broke  forth.  He 
*  Madrid  is  called — la  Corte — the  Court. 


284  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

did  not  throw  himself  on  the  bull !  He  was  afraid !  And 
it  was  sufficient  for  him  to  throw  himself  one  step  back 
for  the  people  to  greet  this  precaution  with  filthy  insults. 

The  news  of  what  had  happened  in  Seville  at  the 
Easter  corrida  seemed  to  have  circulated  throughout 
Spain.  His  enemies  were  taking  their  revenge  for  long 
years  of  envy  and  jealousy.  His  professional  compan- 
ions whom  he  had  often  forced  into  danger  from  a  feel- 
ing of  emulation  now  babbled  with  hypocritical  expres- 
sions of  pity  about  Gallardo's  decadence.  His  courage 
had  given  out!  His  last  cogida  had  made  him  over 
prudent.  And  the  audience,  influenced  by  these  rumours, 
now  fixed  their  eyes  on  the  torero  as  soon  as  he  entered 
the  Plaza,  predisposed  to  find  anything  he  did  bad,  just 
as  previously  they  had  applauded  even  his  faults. 

The  fickleness  so  characteristic  of  mobs  had  much  to 
say  to  this  change  of  opinion.  The  people  were  tired  of 
watching  Gallardo's  courage,  and  now  they  enjoyed 
watching  his  fear — or  his  prudence — as  if  it  made  them- 
selves the  braver. 

The  public  never  thought  he  was  close  enough  to  his 
bull.  He  must  throw  himself  better  on  it!  And  when 
he,  overcoming  by  sheer  strength  of  will  that  nervous- 
ness which  longed  to  fly  from  danger,  had  succeeded  in 
killing  a  bull  as  in  former  days,  the  ovation  was  neither 
so  prolonged  nor  so  vehement.  He  seemed  to  have 
broken  the  current  of  enthusiasm  which  had  formerly 
existed  between  himself  and  the  populace.  His  scanty 
triumphs  only  served  to  make  the  people  worry  him  with 
lectures  and  advice.  That  was  the  way  to  kill!  You 
ought  always  to  kill  like  that!     Great  cheat! 

His  faithful  partizans  recognized  his  failures,  but  they 
excused  them,  speaking  of  the  former  exploits  performed 
by  the  espada  on  his  lucky  afternoons. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  285 

"He  is  somewhat  over  careful,"  they  said.  "He  seems 
tired.     But  when  he  wishes !"  .  .  . 

Ay!  but  Gallardo  always  wished.  Why  could  he  not 
do  well  and  gain  the  applause  of  the  populace  ?  But  his 
successes,  that  the  aficionados  thought  a  caprice  of  his 
will,  were  really  the  work  of  chance  or  of  a  happy  con- 
junction of  circumstances,  of  that  heart-throb  of  the 
olden  days  which  now  he  so  very  seldom  felt. 

In  many  of  the  provincial  Plazas  he  had  been  whistled, 
the  people  on  the  sunny  side  insulted  him  by  the  tooting 
of  horns  and  the  ringing  of  cow  bells  whenever  he 
delayed  in  killing  a  bull,  by  giving  it  half-hearted  esto- 
cades  which  did  not  make  it  bend  its  knees. 

In  Madrid  the  people  waited  for  him  "with  their 
claws,"  as  he  said.  As  soon  as  the  spectators  of  the  first 
corrida  saw  him  pass  the  bull  with  the  muleta,  and  enter 
to  kill,  the  row  broke  out.  That  lad  from  Seville  had 
been  changed !  That  was  not  Gallardo ;  it  was  some  one 
slse.  He  shortened  his  arm,  he  turned  away  his  face; 
he  ran  with  the  quickness  of  a  squirrel,  putting  himself 
out  of  reach  of  the  bull's  horns,  without  the  calmness  to 
stand  quietly  and  wait  for  him.  They  noted  a  deplorable 
loss  of  courage  and  strength. 

That  corrida  was  a  fiasco  for  Gallardo,  and  in  the 
evening  assemblies  of  the  aficionados  the  affair  was  much 
canvassed.  The  old  people  who  thought  everything  in 
the  present  day  was  bad  spoke  of  the  cowardice  of  mod- 
em toreros.  They  presented  themselves  with  mad  dar- 
ing, but  as  soon  as  they  felt  the  touch  of  a  horn  on  their 
flesh  .  .  .  they  were  done  for ! 

Gallardo,  obliged  to  rest  in  consequence  of  the  bad 
weather,  waited  impatiently  for  the  second  corrida,  with 
the  fullest  intention  of  performing  great  exploits.  He 
was  much  pained  at  the  wound  inflicted  on  his  amour- 
propre  by  the  ridicule  of  his  enemies ;  if  he  returned  to 


286  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

the  provinces  with  the  bad  reputation  of  a  fiasco  in 
Madrid  he  was  a  lost  man.  He  would  master  his  ner- 
vousness, vanquish  that  dread  which  made  him  shrink 
and  fancy  the  bulls  larger  and  more  formidable.  He 
considered  his  strength  quite  equal  to  accomplish  the 
same  deeds  as  before.  It  was  true  there  still  remained 
a  slight  weakness  in  his  arm  and  in  his  leg,  but  that 
would  soon  pass  off. 

His  manager  suggested  his  accepting  a  very  advan- 
tageous contract  for  certain  Plazas  in  America,  but  he 
refused.  No,  he  could  not  cross  the  seas  at  present. 
He  must  first  show  Spain  that  he  was  the  same  espads 
as  heretofore.  Afterwards  he  would  consider  the  pro- 
priety of  undertaking  that  journey. 

With  the  anxiety  of  a  popular  man  who  feels  his  pres- 
tige broken,  Gallardo  frequented  the  places  where  all  the 
aficionados  assembled.  He  went  often  to  the  Cafe  Ingles, 
which  the  partisans  of  the  Andalusian  toreros  frequent- 
ed, thinking  his  presence  would  silence  all  unpleasant  re- 
marks. He  himself,  modest  and  smiling,  began  the  con- 
versation, with  a  humility  that  disarmed  even  the  most 
irreconcilable. 

"It  is  quite  certain  I  did  not  do  well,  I  quite  recog- 
nize it.  But  you  will  see  at  the  next  corrida,  when  the 
weather  clears.  ...    I  will  do  what  I  can." 

He  did  not  dare  to  enter  certain  cafes  in  the  Puerta 
del  Sol,  where  aficionados  of  a  lower  class  assembled. 
They  were  thorough-going  Madrilenos,  inimical  to  An- 
dalusian bull-fighting,  and  resentful  that  all  the  matadors 
came  from  Seville  and  Cordoba,  while  the  capital  seemed 
unable  to  produce  a  glorious  representative.  The  re- 
membrance of  Frascuelo,  whom  they  considered  a  son 
of  Madrid,  lived  everlastingly  in  those  assemblies. 
Many  of  them  had  not  been  to  the  Plaza  for  years,  not  in 
fact  since  the  retirement  of  "El  Negro."     Why  should 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  287 

they?  They  were  quite  content  to  read  the  reports  in 
the  papers,  being  convinced  that  since  Frascuelo's  death 
there  were  neither  bulls  nor  toreros,  Andalusian  lads 
and  nothing  more,  dancers  who  made  grimaces  with  their 
capes  and  their  bodies,  but  did  not  know  how  to  stand 
and  "receive"  a  bull  with  dignity. 

Now  and  again  a  slight  breath  of  hope  revived  them. 
Madrid  was  soon  going  to  have  its  own  great  matador. 
They  had  discovered  in  the  suburbs  a  "novillero,"  who 
had  already  done  good  work  in  the  Plazas  of  Vallecas 
and  Tetuan,  and  had  fought  in  the  Madrid  Plaza  at  the 
cheap  Sunday  afternoon  corridas. 

His  name  was  becoming  popular.  In  all  the  barbers' 
shops  the  greatest  triumphs  were  predicted  for  him, 
but  somehow  or  other  those  prophecies  were  never  ful- 
filled, either  the  aspirant  fell  a  victim  to  a  mortal  "cog- 
ida"  or  dropped  into  being  one  of  the  loafers  in  the  Plaza 
del  Sol,  who  aired  their  pigtails  while  they  waited  for 
imaginary  contracts,  and  the  aficionados  were  free  to 
turn  their  attention  to  other  rising  stars. 

Gallardo  did  not  dare  to  approach  the  tauromachic 
demagogy,  whom  he  knew  had  always  hated  him  and 
were  rejoicing  at  his  decadence.  Most  of  them  would 
not  go  to  see  him  in  the  circus,  nor  admire  any  torero 
of  the  present  day.  Their  expected  Messiah  must  ar- 
rive before  they  returned  to  the  Plaza. 

In  order  to  distract  his  mind  Gallardo  would  wander 
in  the  evenings  through  the  Puerta  del  Sol,  and  allow 
himself  to  be  accosted  by  those  bull-fighting  vagabonds 
who  assembled  there,  boasting  of  their  exploits;  they 
were  all  smart,  well  dressed,  with  a  marvellous  display 
of  imitation  jewellery.  They  all  saluted  him  respectfully 
as  "Maestro"  or  "Seiio  Juan";  some  were  honest  fel- 
lows enough,  who  hoped  to  make  a  name  for  themselves, 
and   maintain   their   families  by   something  more   than 


288  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

workmen's  wages,  others  were  less  scrupulous,  but  all 
ended  by  borrowing  a  few  pesetas  from  him. 

In  addition  to  the  amusement  offered  by  those  would- 
be  toreros,  he  was  much  diverted  by  the  importunity  of 
an  admirer  who  pestered  him  with  his  projects.  This 
man  was  a  tavern-keeper  at  Las  Ventas,  a  rough  Ga- 
lician  of  powerful  build,  short-necked  and  high-coloured, 
who  had  made  a  little  fortune  in  his  shop  where  soldiers 
and  servants  went  to  dance  on  Sundays. 

He  had  only  one  son,  small  of  stature,  and  feeble  in 
constitution,  whom  his  father  destined  to  be  one  of  the 
great  lights  of  tauromachia.  The  tavern-keeper,  a  great 
admirer  of  Gallardo  and  of  all  celebrated  espadas,  had 
quite  made  up  his  mind  to  this, 

"The  lad  is  worth  something,"  he  said,  "You  know, 
Seiior  Juan,  that  I  understand  something  about  these 
matters,  and  I  am  quite  willing  to  spend  a  bit  of  money 
to  give  him  a  profession  .  .  .  but  he  wants  a  'padrino'  ^ 
if  he  is  to  be  pushed,  and  there  could  be  no  one  better 
than  yourself.  If  you  would  only  arrange  a  novillada 
in  which  the  youngster  could  kill!  Crowds  of  people 
would  go,  and  I  would  bear  all  the  expenses," 

This  readiness  to  "bear  all  the  expenses"  to  help  the 
lad  on  in  his  career  had  already  caused  the  tavern- 
keeper  heav}'"  losses.  But  he  still  persisted,  being  sup- 
ported by  that  commercial  spirit  which  made  him  over- 
look the  failures,  in  the  hope  of  the  enormous  gains  his 
son  would  make  when  he  was  a  full-fledged  matador. 

The  poor  boy,  who  in  his  early  years  had  shown  a 
passion  for  bull-fighting,  like  most  boys  of  his  class,  now 
found  himself  a  prisoner  to  his  father's  tyrannical  will. 
The  latter  had  thoroughly  believed  in  his  vocation,  think- 
ing the  boy's  want  of  dash,  laziness ;  and  his  fear,  want 
of  enterprise,  A  cloud  of  parasites,  low  class  amateurs, 
*  Godfather ;  patron. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  289 

obscure  toreros  whose  only  remembrances  of  the  past 
were  their  pigtails,  who  drank  gratuitously  at  the  tavern- 
keeper's  expense,  and  begged  small  loans  in  return  for 
their  advice,  formed  a  kind  of  deliberative  assembly, 
whose  object  was  to  make  known  to  the  world  this  bull- 
fighting star,  now  lying  hidden  in  Las  Ventas. 

The  tavern-keeper,  without  consulting  his  son,  had 
organized  corridas  in  Tetuan  and  Vallecas,  always  "bear- 
ing all  the  expenses."  These  outlying  Plazas  were  open 
to  all  those  who  wished  to  be  gored  or  trampled  by  bulls, 
under  the  eyes  of  a  few  hundred  spectators.  But  those 
amusements  were  not  to  be  had  for  nothing.  To  enjoy 
the  pleasure  of  being  rolled  over  in  the  sand,  to  have  his 
breeches  torn  to  rags,  and  his  body  covered  with  blood 
and  dirt,  it  was  necessary  to  pay  for  all  the  seats  in  the 
Plaza,  the  diestro  or  his  representative  undertaking  to 
distribute  the  tickets. 

The  enthusiastic  father  filled  all  the  places  with  his 
friends,  distributing  the  entrances  amongst  comrades  of 
the  guild,  or  poor  amateurs  of  the  sport.  Moreover,  he 
paid  those  who  formed  his  son's  cuadrilla  lavishly,  all 
vagabonds,  peons  and  banderilleros,  recruited  from 
among  the  loafers  in  the  Puerta  del  Sol,  who  fought  in 
their  everyday  clothes,  whereas  the  youngster  was  re- 
splendent in  his  gala  costume.  Anything  for  the  lad's 
career ! 

"He  has  a  new  gala  dress  made  by  the  best  tailor,  who 
dresses  Gallardo  and  the  other  matadors.  Seven  thou- 
sand reals  it  cost  me.  I  think  he  ought  to  be  fine  in 
that !  .  .  .  But  I  would  spend  my  last  peseta  to  get  him 
on.    Ah !  if  others  had  a  father  like  me !  .  .  ." 

The  tavern-keeper  stood  between  the  barriers  during 
the  corrida,  encouraging  the  espada  by  his  presence, 
and  by  the  flourishing  of  a  big  stick.  Whenever  the 
youngster  came  to  rest  by  the  wall  the  fat  red  face  of 


290  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

his  father  and  the  big  knob  of  that  terrible  stick  would 
appear  like  terrifying  phantoms. 

"Do  you  think  I  am  spending  my  money  for  this? 
Why  are  you  here  giving  yourself  airs  and  graces  like 
a  young  lady?  Have  some  dash  and  enterprise,  rascal. 
Go  out  into  the  middle  and  distinguish  yourself.  Ay! 
if  I  were  only  your  age  and  not  so  stout.  .  .  ." 

When  the  poor  lad  stood  opposite  the  novillo,  the 
muleta  and  rapier  in  his  hands,  with  pale  face  and  trem- 
bling legs,  his  father  followed  all  his  evolutions  from  be- 
hind the  barrier.  He  was  always  before  the  boy's  eyes 
like  a  threatening  master,  ready  to  chastise  the  slightest 
fault  in  the  lesson. 

What  the  poor  diestro,  dressed  in  his  suit  of  gold 
and  red  silk,  most  feared,  was  his  return  home  on  the 
evenings  when  his  father  was  frowning  and  dissatisfied 

He  would  enter  the  tavern  wrapping  himself  in  his 
rich  and  glittering  cape,  to  hide  the  rags  of  shirt  pro- 
truding through  rents  in  his  breeches,  all  his  bones  ach- 
ing with  tosses  the  young  bulls  had  given  him.  His 
mother,  a  rough,  coarse-faced  woman,  upset  by  her  after- 
noon's anxious  wait,  would  run  to  meet  him  open  armed. 

"Here's  this  coward!"  roared  the  tavern-keeper.  "He 
is  worse  than  a  'maleta.'  And  it  is  for  this  that  I  have 
spent  money !" 

The  terrible  stick  was  raised  furiously,  and  the  golden 
suited  lad,  who  just  before  had  murdered  two  poor  little 
bulls,  endeavoured  to  run  away,  shielding  his  face  with 
his  arm,  while  his  mother  interposed  between  the  two. 

"Don't  you  see  he  is  wounded?" 

"Wounded!"  exclaimed  the  father  bitterly,  regretting 
it  was  not  the  case.  "That  is  for  'true'  toreros.  Put  % 
few  stitches  in  his  rags,  and  see  they  are  washed.  .  .  . 
Just  see  how  they  have  served  the  cheat !" 

But  in  a  few  days  the  tavern-keeper  had  recovered  his 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  291 

equanimity.  Anybody  might  have  a  bad  day.  He  had 
seen  famous  matadors  in  just  as  bad  case  before  the  pub- 
lic as  his  boy.  And  he  forthwith  arranged  fresh  corridas 
in  Toledo  and  Guadalajara,  he,  as  before,  "paying  all  the 
expenses." 

His  novillada  in  the  Madrid  Plaza  was,  according  to  the 
tavern-keeper,  one  of  the  most  splendid  on  record.  The 
espada,  by  a  lucky  accident,  had  killed  two  young  bulls 
moderately  well,  and  the  public,  who  for  the  most  part 
had  entered  free,  applauded  the  tavern-keeper's  son. 

As  he  came  out  of  the  Plaza  his  father  appeared  at 
the  head  of  a  noisy  troup  of  loafers,  whom  he  had  col- 
lected from  all  round  the  neighbourhood.  The  tavern- 
keeper  was  an  honest  man  in  his  dealings,  and  he  had 
promised  to  pay  them  fifty  centimes  a  head  if  they  would 
shout  "Vive  El  Manitas" !  till  they  were  hoarse,  and 
carry  the  glorious  novillero  on  their  shoulders  as  soon  as 
he  came  out  of  the  circus, 

"El  Manitas,"  still  trembling  from  his  recent  perils, 
found  himself  surrounded,  seized  and  lifted  on  to  the 
shoulders  of  the  noisy  loafers,  and  carried  in  triumph 
from  the  Plaza  to  Las  Ventas,  through  the  Calle  de  Al- 
cala,  followed  by  the  inquisitive  looks  of  the  people  on  the 
tramways,  which  remorselessly  cut  through  the  glorious 
manifestation.  The  father  walked  along  with  his  stick 
under  his  arm,  pretending  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  it, 
but  whenever  the  shouting  slackened  he  forgot  himself 
and  ran  to  the  head  of  the  crowd,  like  a  man  who  does 
not  think  he  is  getting  his  money's  worth,  himself  giving 
the  signal,  "Viva  Manitas,"  when  the  ovation  would 
recommence  with  tremendous  shouting. 

Many  months  had  passed,  and  the  tavern-keeper  was 
still  excited  as  he  remembered  the  affair. 

"They  brought  him  back  to  the  house  on  their  shoul- 
ders, Sefior  Juan,  just  the  same  as  they  have  often  car- 


292  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

ried  you ;  forgive  me  the  comparison.  You  will  see  if 
the  youngster  is  not  worth  something  .  .  .  He  only 
wants  a  push,  for  you  to  give  him  a  helping  hand."  .  .  . 

So  Gallardo,  to  free  himself,  answered,  promising 
vaguely;  possibly  he  might  manage  to  direct  the  novil- 
lada,  but  they  could  settle  that  later  on,  there  was  still 
plenty  of  time  before  winter. 

One  evening  at  dusk,  as  the  torero  was  entering  the 
Calle  de  Alcala  through  the  Puerta  del  Sol  he  gave  a  start 
of  surprise.  A  fair-haired  lady  was  getting  out  of  a  car- 
riage at  the  door  of  the  Hotel  de  Paris  .  .  .  Dona  Sol! 
A  man  who  looked  like  a  foreigner  gave  her  his  hand  to 
descend,  and  after  speaking  a  few  words  walked  away, 
while  she  entered  the  hotel. 

It  was  Dona  Sol.  The  torero  could  have  no  doubt  on 
that  point ;  neither  could  he  have  any  doubt  as  to  the  rela- 
tions subsisting  between  her  and  the  stranger.  So  she  had 
looked  at  him,  so  she  had  smiled  on  him  in  those  happy 
days  when  they  rode  together  over  the  lonely  country  in 
the  crimson  light  of  the  setting  sun.    Curse  him  I 

He  spent  an  uncomfortable  evening  with  some  friends, 
and  afterwards  slept  badly;  his  dreams  reproducing 
many  scenes  of  the  past.  When  he  awoke  the  dull  grey 
light  was  coming  in  through  the  window,  rain  mingled 
with  snow  was  pouring  down  in  torrents,  everything 
looked  black,  the  sky,  the  opposite  walls,  the  muddy 
pavement,  the  umbrellas,  even  the  smart  carriages  rat- 
tling along. 

Eleven  o'clock.  Suppose  he  went  to  see  Dona  Sol? 
Why  not !  The  night  before  he  had  angrily  rejected  this 
thought.  It  would  be  lowering  himself.  She  had  gone 
away  without  any  explanation,  and  afterwards,  knowing 
him  to  be  in  danger  of  death,  she  had  scarcely  enquired 
after  him.    Only  a  telegram  just  at  first,  not  even  a  short 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  293 

letter,  not  even  a  line.  She  who  was  so  fond  of  writing  to 
her  friends.    No,  he  would  not  go  to  see  her. 

But  his  strength  of  will  seemed  to  have  evaporated  dur- 
ing the  night.  Why  not?  he  asked  himself  once  again. 
He  must  see  her  again.  Among  all  the  women  he  had 
known  she  stood  first,  attracting  him  with  a  strength  quite 
different  from  anything  he  felt  for  the  others.  Ay !  how 
much  he  had  felt  that  sudden  separation ! 

His  cruel  "cogida"  in  the  Plaza  of  Seville  had  cut 
short  his  amorous  pique.  Afterwards  his  illness,  and  his 
tender  approximation  to  Carmen  during  his  convales- 
cence, had  resigned  him  to  his  misfortune ;  but  to  forget 
her  .  .  .  that — never.  He  had  done  his  best  to  forget 
the  past,  but  any  slight  circumstance,  a  lady  on  horseback 
galloping  past — a  fair-haired  Englishwoman  in  the  street, 
the  constant  intercourse  with  all  those  young  men  who 
were  her  relations,  everything  recalled  the  image  of  Doiia 
Sol !  Ay !  that  woman !  .  .  .  Never  should  he  meet  her 
like  again.  Losing  her,  Gallardo  seemed  to  have  gone 
back  in  his  life,  he  was  no  longer  the  same.  He  even  at- 
tributed to  her  desertion  his  fiascos  in  his  art.  When  he 
had  her  he  was  braver,  but  when  the  fair-haired  gachi  left 
him  his  ill  luck  began.  He  firmly  believed  that  if  she  re- 
turned his  glorious  days  would  also  come  back.  His 
superstitious  heart  believed  this  most  firmly. 

Possibly  his  longing  to  see  her  was  a  happy  inspiration, 
like  those  heart-throbs  which  had  so  often  carried  him  on 
to  glory  in  the  circus.  Again,  why  not?  Possibly  Dona 
Sol  seeing  him  again  after  a  long  absence  .  .  .  who 
could  tell !  .  .  .  The  first  time  they  had  seen  each  other 
alone  together  it  had  been  so. 

And  so  Gallardo,  trusting  in  his  lacky  star,  took  his 
way  towards  the  Hotel  de  Paris,  situated  at  a  short  dis- 
tance from  his  own. 

He  had  to  wait  nearly  half  an  hour  on  a  divan  in  the 


294  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

hall,  under  the  curious  eyes  of  the  hotel  employes  and 
guests,  who  turned  to  look  at  him  as  they  heard  his 
name. 

Finally  a  servant  showed  him  into  the  lift,  and  took  him 
up  to  a  small  sitting-room  on  the  first  floor,  from  whose 
windows  he  could  see  all  the  restless  life  of  the  Puerta 
del  Sol. 

At  last  a  little  door  opened  and  Dona  Sol  appeared 
amid  a  rustling  of  silks,  and  the  delicate  perfume  which 
seemed  to  belong  to  her  fresh  pink  skin;  radiant  in  the 
beautiful  summer  time  of  her  life. 

Gallardo  devoured  her  with  his  eyes,  looking  her  up 
and  down  as  one  who  had  not  forgotten  the  smallest  de- 
tail. She  was  just  the  same  as  in  Seville !  .  .  .  No,  even 
more  beautiful  in  his  eyes,  with  the  added  temptation  of 
her  long  absence. 

She  was  dressed  in  much  the  same  elegant  neglige,  with 
the  same  strange  jewels  as  on  the  night  when  he  had 
first  seen  her,  with  gold  embroidered  papouches  on  her 
pretty  feet.  She  stretched  out  her  hand  with  cold  amia- 
bility. 

"How  are  you,  Gallardo?  ...  I  knew  you  were  in 
Madrid,  for  I  had  seen  you." 

She  no  longer  used  the  familiar  "tu,"  to  which  he  had 
responded  with  the  respectful  address  of  a  lover  of  in- 
ferior class.  That  "usted,"  which  seemed  to  make  them 
equals,  drove  the  torero  to  despair.  He  had  wished  to  be 
as  a  servant  raised  by  love  to  the  arms  of  the  great  lady, 
and  now  he  found  himself  treated  with  the  cold  but  cour- 
teous consideration  of  an  ordinary  friend. 

She  explained  that  she  had  seen  Gallardo,  having  been 
at  the  only  corrida  given  in  Madrid.  She  had  been  there 
with  a  foreign  gentleman,  who  wished  to  know  Spanish 
things :  a  friend  who  was  accompanying  her  on  her  jour- 
ney, but  who  was  living  at  another  hotel. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  295 

Gallardo  replied  by  a  nod.  He  knew  that  foreigner — 
he  had  seen  him  with  her. 

There  was  a  long  silence  between  the  two,  neither 
knowing  what  to  say.    Dofia  Sol  was  the  first  to  break  it. 

She  thought  the  torero  looking  very  well :  she  remem- 
bered vaguely  having  heard  something  about  an  accident, 
indeed  she  was  almost  sure  that  she  had  sent  a  telegram 
to  enquire.  But,  really,  with  the  life  she  led,  with  con- 
stant changes  of  country  and  new  friendships,  her  mem- 
ory was  in  such  a  state  of  confusion !  .  .  .  She  thought 
he  looked  just  the  same  as  ever,  and  at  the  corrida  he  had 
seemed  proud  and  strong,  although  rather  unfortunate. 
But  she  did  not  understand  much  about  bulls. 

"That  'cogida'  was  not  really  much?" 

Gallardo  felt  irritated  at  the  indifferent  tone  in  which 
that  woman  made  the  enquiry.  And  he!  all  the  time  he 
was  hovering  between  life  and  death  he  had  thought  only 
of  her!  .  .  .  With  a  roughness  bom  of  indignation  he 
told  her  about  his  "cogida"  and  his  long  convalescence, 
which  had  lasted  the  whole  winter. 

She  listened  with  feigned  interest,  while  her  eyes  be- 
trayed utter  indifference.  What  did  the  misfortune  of 
that  bull-fighter  signify  to  her.  .  .  .  They  were  acci- 
dents of  his  profession,  and  as  such  could  be  interesting 
to  himself  only. 

As  Gallardo  spoke  of  his  convalescence  at  the  Grange, 
his  memory  recalled  the  image  of  the  man  who  had  seen 
Doiia  Sol  and  himself  there  together. 

"And  Plumitas?  Do  you  remember  the  poor  fellow? 
They  killed  him.    I  do  not  know  if  you  heard  of  it." 

Doiia  Sol  also  remembered  this  vaguely.  She  had 
probably  read  about  it  in  one  of  the  Parisian  papers, 
which  spoke  of  the  bandit  as  a  most  interesting  type  of 
picturesque  Spain. 

"A  poor  man,"  said  Dona  Sol  indifferently.    "I  scarcely 


296  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

remember  him  except  as  a  rough  uninteresting  peasant 
From  a  distance  one  judges  things  at  their  true  value. 
What  I  do  remember  is  the  day  on  which  he  break- 
fasted with  us  at  the  farm." 

Gallardo  also  remembered  that  day.  Poor  Plumitas! 
With  what  emotion  he  took  a  flower  offered  by  Dona  Sol 
.  .  .  because  she  had  given  the  bandit  a  flower  as  she 
took  leave  of  him.    Did  she  not  remember?  .   .   . 

Dona  Sol's  eyes  expressed  absolute  wonder. 

"Are  you  quite  sure?"  she  asked.  "Is  that  really  so? 
I  swear  to  you  I  remember  nothing  about  it  .  .  .  Ay! 
that  sunny  land!  Ay!  the  intoxication  of  the  pictur- 
esque!   Ay!  the  follies  they  make  one  commit!  ..." 

Her  exclamations  betrayed  a  kind  of  repentance,  but 
she  burst  out  laughing. 

"Very  possibly  that  poor  peasant  kept  that  flower  till 
his  last  moment.  Don't  you  think  so,  Gallardo?  Don't 
say  'No.'  Probably  no  one  had  ever  given  him  a  flower 
in  all  his  life.  ...  It  is  quite  possible  that  that  withered 
flower  may  have  been  found  on  his  body,  a  mysterious 
remembrance  that  no  one  could  explain.  .  .  .  Did  you 
know  nothing  of  this,  Gallardo?  Did  the  papers  say 
nothing  ?  .  .  .  Be  silent,  don't  say  'No' ;  do  not  dispel 
my  illusions.  So  it  ought  to  be — I  wish  it  to  be  so.  Poor 
Plumitas !  How  interesting !  And  I  who  had  forgotten 
all  about  the  flower !  .  .  .  I  must  tell  that  to  my  friend, 
who  is  thinking  of  writing  a  book  about  Spanish  things." 

The  remembrance  of  that  friend,  who  for  the  second 
time  in  a  few  moments  came  up  in  the  conversation, 
saddened  the  torero. 

He  looked  fixedly  for  some  time  at  the  beautiful  wom- 
an, with  his  melancholy  Moorish  eyes,  which  seemed  to 
beg  for  pity. 

"Dona   Sol !  .  .  .     Dona   Sol !"   murmured  he  in   de- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  297 

spairing  accents,  as  if  wishing  to  reproach  her  with  her 
cruelty. 

"What  is  the  matter,  my  friend?"  she  asked  smiling, 
"what  is  happening  to  you  ?" 

Gallardo  sat  with  his  head  bent,  half  intimidated  by 
the  ironical  flash  in  those  clear  eyes,  shimmering  like  gold 
dust. 

Suddenly  he  sat  up  like  one  who  has  taken  a  resolution. 

"Where  have  you  been  all  this  time,  Dona  Sol  ?" 

"All  over  the  world,"  she  answered  simply.  "I  am  a 
bird  of  passage.  In  numberless  towns  of  which  you 
would  not  even  know  the  names." 

"And  that  foreigner  who  accompanies  you  is  .  .  . 
is?"  .  .  . 

"Is  a  friend,"  she  answered  coldly.  "A  friend  who  has 
been  kind  enough  to  accompany  me,  taking  advantage  of 
the  opportunity  to  know  Spain ;  a  clever  man  who  bears 
an  illustrious  name.  From  here  we  shall  go  to  Andalusia, 
when  he  has  done  seeing  the  museums.  What  more  do 
you  wish  to  know?" 

This  question,  so  haughtily  asked,  showed  her  impe- 
rious will  to  keep  the  torero  at  a  distance,  and  to  re-estab- 
lish social  distinctions  between  them.  Gallardo  felt  dis- 
concerted. 

"Dona  Sol,"  he  moaned  ingenuously.  "What  you  have 
done  to  me  is  unpardonable.  You  have  acted  very  badly 
towards  me,  very  badly  indeed  .  .  .  Why  did  you  fly 
without  saying  a  single  word?" 

"Don't  vex  yourself  like  that,  Gallardo.  What  I  did 
was  a  very  good  thing  for  you.  Do  you  not  even  yet 
know  me  well  enough?  Could  one  not  get  tired  of  that 
time?  .  .  .  If  I  were  a  man  I  would  fly  from  women  of 
my  character.  It  is  suicidal  for  a  man  to  fall  in  love 
with  me." 

"But  why  did  you  leave  ?"  persisted  Gallardo. 


298  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

"Because  I  was  bored.  .  .  .  Do  I  speak  clearly?  .  .  . 
And  when  a  person  is  bored,  I  think  they  have  every 
right  to  escape  in  search  of  fresh  distraction.  But  I  am 
bored  to  death  everywhere ;  pity  me." 

"But  I  love  you  with  all  my  heart!"  exclaimed  the 
torero  with  a  dramatic  earnestness  which  in  another  man 
would  have  made  him  laugh. 

"I  love  you  with  all  my  heart!"  repeated  Dona  Sol, 
mimicking  his  voice  and  gesture.  "And  what  then  ?  Ay ! 
these  egotistical  men  that  are  applauded  by  every  one, 
and  who  think  that  everything  was  created  for  them! 
...  'I  love  you  with  all  my  heart,'  and  that  is  sufficient 
reason  for  you  to  love  me  in  return.  .  .  .  But  no,  Senor. 
I  do  not  love  you,  Gallardo.  You  are  a  friend  and  noth- 
ing more.  All  the  rest,  all  that  down  in  Seville,  was  a 
dream,  a  mad  caprice,  which  I  hardly  remember,  and 
which  you  ought  to  forget." 

The  torero  got  up,  going  towards  her  with  outstretched 
arms.  In  his  ignorance  he  knew  not  what  to  say,  guess- 
ing that  his  halting  words  would  be  quite  inefficacious  in 
convincing  such  a  woman.  He  trusted  in  action,  with 
the  impulsive  vehemence  of  his  hopes  and  his  desires,  he 
intended  to  seize  that  woman,  to  draw  her  to  him,  and 
dispel  with  his  warm  embrace  the  coldness  which  sepa- 
rated them. 

But  she,  with  a  simple  turn  of  her  right  hand,  pushed 
away  the  torero's  arms.  A  flash  of  pride  and  anger  shone 
in  her  eyes,  and  she  drew  herself  up  aggressively,  as 
if  she  had  been  insulted. 

"Be  quiet,  Gallardo !  .  .  .  If  you  go  on  like  this  you 
will  no  longer  be  my  friend,  and  I  shall  have  you  turned 
out  of  the  house." 

The  torero  stood  humiliated  and  ashamed;  some  time 
passed  in  silence,  until  at  last  Dona  Sol  seemed  to  pity 
him. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  299 

"Do  not  be  a  child,"  she  said.  "What  is  the  use  of 
remembering  what  is  no  longer  possible.  Why  think  of 
me?  You  have  your  wife,  who  I  am  told  is  both  pretty 
and  good,  a  kind  companion.  If  not  her,  then  others. 
There  are  plenty  of  girls  down  in  Seville  who  would  think 
it  happiness  to  be  loved  by  Gallardo.  My  love  is  ended. 
As  a  famous  man  accustomed  to  success  your  pride  is 
hurt ;  but  it  is  so ;  mine  is  ended.  You  are  a  friend  and 
nothing  more.  I  am  quite  different.  I  am  bored,  and  I 
never  retrace  my  steps.  Illusions  only  last  with  me  a 
short  time,  and  pass,  leaving  no  trace.  I  am  to  be  pitied, 
believe  me." 

She  looked  at  the  torero  with  commiserating  eyes,  as 
if  she  suddenly  saw  all  his  defects  and  roughness. 

"I  think  things  that  you  could  not  understand,"  she 
went  on.  "You  seem  to  me  different.  The  Gallardo  in 
Seville  was  not  the  same  as  the  one  here.  Are  you  the 
same?  ...  I  cannot  doubt  it,  but  to  me  you  are  dif- 
ferent. .   .   .     How  can  this  be  explained?  ..." 

She  looked  through  the  window  at  the  dull  rainy  sky, 
at  the  wet  Plaza,  at  the  flakes  of  snow,  and  then  she 
turned  her  eyes  on  the  espada,  looking  with  astonishment 
at  the  long  lock  of  hair  plastered  on  his  head,  at  his 
clothes,  his  hat,  at  all  the  details  which  betrayed  his  pro- 
fession, which  contrasted  so  strongly  with  his  smart  and 
modem  dress. 

To  Dona  Sol  the  torero  seemed  out  of  his  element. 
Down  in  Seville  Gallardo  was  a  hero,  the  spontaneous 
product  of  a  cattle-breeding  countr}' ;  here  he  seemed  like 
an  actor.  How  had.  she  been  able  for  many  months  to 
feel  love  for  that  rough,  coarse  man.  Ay !  the  surround- 
ing atmosphere !    To  what  follies  it  drove  one ! 

She  remembered  the  danger  in  v/hich  she  found  her- 
self, so  nearly  perishing  beneath  the  bull's  horns;  she 
thought  of  that  breakfast  with  the  bandit,  to  whom  she 


300  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

had  listened  stupefied  with  admiration,  ending  by  giving 
him  a  flower.  What  follies !  And  how  far  off  it  all  now 
seemed ! 

Of  that  past  nothing  remained  but  that  man,  standing 
motionless  before  her,  with  his  imploring  eyes,  and  his 
childish  desire  to  revive  those  days.  .  .  .  Poor  man !  As 
if  follies  could  be  repeated  when  one's  thoughts  were  cold 
and  the  illusion  wanting.    The  blind  enchantment  of  life ! 

"It  is  all  over,"  said  the  lady.  "We  must  forget  the 
past,  for  when  we  see  it  a  second  time  it  does  not  present 
itself  in  the  same  colours.  What  would  I  give  to  have 
my  former  eyes?  .  .  .  When  I  returned  to  Spain  it 
seemed  to  me  changed.  You  also  are  different  from  what 
I  knew  you.  It  even  seemed  to  me,  seeing  you  in  the 
Plaza,  that  you  were  less  daring  .  .  .  that  the  people 
were  less  enthusiastic." 

She  said  this  quite  simply,  without  a  trace  of  malice, 
but  Gallardo  thought  there  was  mocking  in  her  voice, 
and  bent  his  head,  while  his  cheeks  coloured. 

Curse  it!  All  his  professional  anxieties  arose  again  in 
his  mind.  All  the  evil  which  was  happening  to  him  was 
because  he  did  not  now  throw  himself  on  the  bulls.  That 
is  what  she  so  clearly  said,  she  saw  him  "as  if  he  were 
another."  If  he  could  only  be  the  Gallardo  of  former 
days,  perhaps  she  would  receive  him  better.  Women  only 
love  brave  man. 

But  he  was  mistaken,  taking  what  was  a  caprice  dead 
for  ever,  to  be  a  momentary  straying,  that  he  could  recall 
by  strength  and  prowess. 

Dona  Sol  got  up.  The  visit  had  oeen  a  long  one,  and 
the  torero  showed  no  disposition  to  leave,  content  with 
being  near  her,  and  trusting  to  some  lucky  chance  to  bring 
them  together  again. 

Gallardo  was  obliged  to  imitate  her.  She  excused  her- 
self under  pretext  of  going  out,  she  was  expecting  her 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  301 

friend,  and  they  were  going  together  to  the  Museum  of 
the  Prado. 

Then  she  invited  him  to  breakfast  another  day,  an  un- 
ceremonious breakfast  in  her  rooms.  Her  friend  would 
come.  No  doubt  he  would  be  delighted  to  meet  a  torero ; 
he  scarcely  spoke  any  Spanish,  but  all  the  same  he  would 
be  pleased  to  know  Gallardo. 

The  espada  pressed  her  hand,  murmuring  some  inco- 
herent words,  and  left  the  room.  Anger  dimmed  his 
sight,  and  his  ears  were  buzzing. 

So  she  dismissed  him — coldly,  like  an  importunate 
friend !  Could  that  woman  be  the  same  as  the  one  in  Se- 
ville !  .  .  .  And  she  invited  him  to  breakfast  with  her 
friend,  so  that  the  man  could  amuse  himself  by  examin- 
ing him  closely  like  a  rare  insect !  .   .   o 

Curse  her!  .  .  .  He  would  prove  himself  a  man  .  .  o 
It  was  over.    He  would  never  see  her  again. 


CHAPTER  IX 

About  this  time  Gallardo  received  several  letters  from 
Don  Jose  and  from  Carmen. 

The  manager  evidently  wished  to  encourage  his  mata- 
dor, advising  him  as  usual  to  go  straight  at  his  bull  .  .  , 
"Zas !  a  thrust,  and  you  put  him  in  your  pocket !"  But 
through  his  warm-hearted  enthusiasm  could  be  traced  a 
slight  discouragement,  as  if  his  perfect  faith  was  a  little 
staggered,  and  he  had  begun  to  doubt  if  Gallardo  were 
still  "the  first  man  in  the  world." 

He  had  received  accounts  of  the  discontent  and  hostil- 
ity with  which  the  public  received  him,  and  the  last  car- 
rida  in  Madrid  had  fairly  disheartened  poor  Don  Jose. 
No,  Gallardo  was  not  like  other  espadas,  who  could  go 
straight  on  through  all  the  whistling  of  the  audience, 
satisfied  as  long  as  they  earned  their  money.  His  mata- 
dor had  genius  and  professional  pride  and  could  show 
himself  off  in  a  circus  only  if  he  were  received  with  great 
applause.  A  mediocre  result  was  equivalent  to  a  defeat. 
The  people  v.-ere  accustomed  to  admire  him  for  his  reck- 
less, audacious  courage,  and  anything  that  did  not  come 
up  to  that  meant  a  fiasco. 

Don  Jose  pretended  to  know  what  was  wrong  with  his 
aspada.  Want  of  courage?  .  .  .  Never.  He  would  die 
sooner  than  admit  that  fault  in  his  hero.  It  was  that  he 
felt  wearied,  that  he  had  not  yet  entirely  recovered  from 
the  tremendous  shock  of  his  "cogida."  "And  for  this 
reason,"  he  advised  in  all  his  letters,  "it  would  be  better 
for  you  to  retire  and  rest  for  a  season.    Afterwards  you 

302 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  303 

can  come  back  and  fight,  and  be  the  same  as  ever."  And 
he  offered  himself  to  make  all  necessary  arrangements. 
A  medical  certificate  would  be  sufficient  to  explain  his 
momentary  inaction,  and  he  would  come  to  some  agree- 
ment as  to  all  pending  contracts  with  the  managers  of  the 
different  Plazas,  by  which  Gallardo  would  supply  a  rising 
torero  to  fill  his  place  at  a  moderate  salary.  So  by  this 
means  he  would  still  be  making  money. 

Carmen  was  the  most  earnest  in  her  persuasions,  using 
none  of  the  manager's  circumlocutions.  He  ought  to  re- 
tire at  once,  he  ought  to  ''cut  off  his  pigtail,"  as  they  said 
in  his  profession,  and  spend  his  life  quietly  at  La  Rinco- 
nada  or  in  his  house  in  Seville  with  his  family,  she  could 
bear  it  no  longer.  Her  heart  told  her  with  that  feminine 
instinct  which  seldom  erred  that  something  serious  would 
occur.  She  could  scarcely  sleep,  and  she  dreaded  the 
night  hours  peopled  with  bloody  visions. 

Then  she  wrote  furiously  against  the  public,  an  un- 
grateful crowd,  who  had  already  forgotten  what  the  tor- 
ero had  done  when  he  was  in  his  full  strength.  Bad 
hearted  people,  who  wished  to  see  him  die  for  their  own 
amusement,  as  if  he  had  neither  wife  nor  mother.  "Juan, 
the  little  mother  and  I  both  beg  of  you  to  retire.  Why  go 
on  bull-fighting?  We  have  enough  to  live  on,  and  it 
pains  me  to  hear  these  people  insulting  you  who  are  not 
worthy  of  you.  Suppose  another  accident  happened  to 
you  ?    Jesus !    I  think  I  should  go  mad." 

Gallardo  was  very  thoughtful  for  some  time  after  read- 
ing these  letters.  To  retire !  .  .  .  What  nonsense ! 
Women's  worries !  Affection  might  easily  dictate  this, 
but  it  was  impossible  to  carry  it  out.  Cut  off  his  pigtail 
before  he  was  thirty!  How  his  enemies  would  laugh! 
He  had  no  right  to  retire  as  long  as  his  limbs  were  sound 
and  he  was  able  to  fight.  Such  an  absurdity  had  never 
been  heard  of.    Money  was  not  everything.    How  about 


304  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

his  fame?  And  his  professional  pride?  What  would  his 
thousands  and  thousands  of  admiring  partisans  say? 
What  could  they  reply  to  his  enemies  if  those  latter  threw 
it  in  their  teeth  that  Gallardo  had  retired  through  fear  ? 

Besides,  the  matador  paused  to  consider  if  his  fortune 
would  admit  of  this  solution.  He  was  rich,  and  yet  he 
was  not.  His  social  position  was  not  yet  consolidated. 
What  he  possessed  was  the  result  of  his  first  few  years 
of  married  life,  when  one  of  his  greatest  pleasures  had 
been  to  surprise  his  mother  and  Carmen  with  fresh 
acquisitions.  After  that  he  had  made  money  in  even 
larger  quantities,  but  it  had  run  away  and  vanished  in  a 
hundred  channels,  opened  out  by  his  new  life.  He  had 
played  high,  had  led  an  expensive  and  ostentatious  life. 
Many  farms,  added  to  the  extensive  estate  of  La  Rinco- 
nada,  to  round  it  off,  had  been  bought  by  loans  furnished 
by  Don  Jose  or  other  friends.  He  was  rich,  but  if  he  re- 
tired and  lost  the  splendid  income  from  the  corridas,  often 
two  or  three  hundred  thousand  pesetas  a  year,  he  would 
have  to  curtail  his  expenses,  pay  his  debts,  and  live  like  a 
country  gentleman  on  the  income  from  La  Rinconada, 
looking  after  things  himself,  for  at  present  the  estate, 
managed  by  hirelings,  produced  very  little. 

Formerly  he  would  have  been  contented  with  a  very 
small  portion  of  what  he  possessed  now,  but  if  he  retired 
he  would  have  to  curtail  those  Havanna  cigars  which  he 
now  distributed  so  lavishly,  and  those  Andalusian  wines 
of  fine  vintage.  He  would  have  to  restrain  his  lordly 
generosity,  and  no  longer  cry  "I  pay  for  everything,"  as 
he  entered  a  cafe  or  a  tavern. 

So  he  had  lived,  and  so  he  must  go  on  living.  He  was 
a  torero  of  the  old-fashioned  style,  lavish,  arrogant, 
astonishing  every  one  with  scandalous  extravagances,  but 
always  ready  to  help  misfortune  with  princely  generosity. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  305 

He  did  not  in  the  least  regret  his  ostentatious  life,  and  yet 
they  wished  him  to  give  it  up. 

Furthermore,  he  thought  of  the  expenses  of  his  own 
household.  All  of  them  were  accustomed  to  the  easy, 
careless  life  of  families  with  little  regard  for  money,  as 
they  saw  it  constantly  flowing  in,  in  streams.  Besides  his 
mother  and  his  wife  he  provided  for  his  sister,  his  loqua- 
cious brother-in-law,  and  the  tribe  of  children  now  grow- 
ing up  and  becoming  daily  more  expensive.  He  would 
have  to  bring  into  ways  of  order  and  economy  all  these 
people  who  had  hitherto  lived  at  his  expense  with  happy 
carelessness  and  open-handedness.  Every  one,  even  poor 
Garabato,  would  have  to  go  to  the  Grange,  and  work  like 
niggers  under  the  burning  sun.  His  mother,  too,  would 
no  longer  be  able  to  make  her  last  days  happy  by  her 
kindly  generosity  to  the  poor  in  the  suburb.  And  Car- 
men also,  who  although  she  was  economical  and  tried  to 
limit  expenses,  would  be  the  first  to  deprive  herself  of 
many  little  frivolities  which  beautified  life. 

Curse  it  all !  .  .  .  All  this  represented  degradation  to 
the  family,  and  Gallardo  felt  ashamed  that  such  a  thing 
could  possibly  happen.  It  would  be  a  crime  to  deprive 
them  of  what  they  enjoyed,  now  they  had  become  accus- 
tomed to  ease  and  comfort.  And  what  ought  he  to  do  to 
prevent  this?  .  .  .  Simply  to  throw  himself  on  the 
bulls,  fight  as  he  had  fought  in  former  days  .  .  .  and 
he  would  throw  himself !  .   .   . 

He  replied  to  his  manager's  and  to  Carmen's  letters  by 
short  and  laboriously  written  epistles,  expressing  to  both 
his  firm  intention  not  to  retire — most  certainly  not. 

He  was  determined  to  be  what  he  had  always  been, 
that  he  swore  to  Don  Jose.  He  would  follow  his  advice. 
"Zas!  a  sword  thrust,  and  the  bull  in  his  pocket."  He 
.felt  his  courage  rising,  and  with  it  the  capacity  of  facing 
all  bulls,  however  big  they  might  be. 


306  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

He  wrote  gaily  to  his  wife,  though  his  amour-propre 
was  rather  wounded  by  her  doubting  his  strength.  She 
would  soon  have  news  of  the  next  corrida.  He  intended 
to  astonish  the  public  so  that  they  might  be  ashamed  of 
their  injustice.  If  the  bulls  were  good  ones,  he  would 
surpass  even  Roger  de  Flor  himself !  .   .   . 

Good  bulls !  This  was  one  of  Gallardo's  anxieties. 
Formerly  one  of  his  vanities  had  been  never  to  concern 
himself  with  the  brutes,  never  to  go  and  see  them  at  the 
Plaza  before  the  corrida. 

"I  kill  anything  that  is  sent  to  me,"  he  said  arrogantly. 

And  he  saw  his  bulls  for  the  first  time  when  they  were 
turned  into  the  circus. 

Now  he  wished  to  examine  them  closely,  to  choose 
them,  to  prepare  for  his  success  by  a  careful  study  of 
their  dispositions. 

The  weather  had  cleared  at  last,  and  the  sun  was  shin- 
ing. Consequently  the  second  corrida  would  take  place 
on  the  following  day. 

That  evening  Gallardo  went  alone  to  the  Plaza.  The 
huge  red  brick  circus,  with  its  Moorish  windows,  stood 
out  against  a  background  of  low  green  hillocks.  On 
the  furthest  slope  of  this  wide  but  monotonous  land- 
scape something  lay  white  in  the  distance  which  might 
be  a  herd  of  cattle.    It  was  the  cemetery-. 

As  the  matador  came  near  the  building  a  troup  of 
squalid  beggars,  vagabonds  who  were  allowed  to  sleep  in 
the  stables  from  charity,  wretches  who  lived  on  the  alms 
of  the  aficionados  or  the  scraps  from  neighbouring  tav- 
erns, gathered  round  him  cap  in  hand.  Many  had  come 
from  Andalusia  with  a  consignment  of  bulls,  and  had  re- 
mained hanging  about  the  precincts  of  the  Plaza. 

Gallardo  distributed  a  few  coins  among  these  beggars, 
and  then  entered  the  circus  through  the  Puerta  de  Cabal- 
jferizas. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  307 

In  the  courtyard  he  saw  a  group  of  aficionados  watch- 
ing the  picadors  trying  their  horses.  Potaje,  armed  with 
his  spear  and  huge  cowherd's  spurs,  was  just  going  to 
mount.  The  stable  boys  accompanied  the  contractor  who 
furnished  the  horses,  a  stout  man,  slow  of  speech,  wear- 
ing a  large  Andalusian  felt  sombrero,  who  answered  with 
imperturbable  calm  the  aggressive  and  insulting  loquacit}^ 
of  the  picadors. 

The  "monos  sabios,"  with  their  sleeves  rolled  up. 
Drought  out  the  miserable  crocks  for  the  riders  to  try. 
For  several  days  they  had  been  riding  and  training  those 
wretched  mounts,  who  still  bore  on  their  flanks  crimson 
spur  marks.  They  took  them  out  to  trot  on  the  open 
ground  round  the  Plaza,  giving  them  a  fictitious  energy 
beneath  their  iron  heels,  and  teaching  them  to  turn  quick- 
ly so  as  to  become  used  to  their  work  in  the  arena.  They 
returned  to  the  Plaza  with  their  sides  stained  with 
blood,  and  before  entering  the  stables  were  refreshed 
with  three  or  four  pails-full  of  water.  Close  to  the 
drinking-trough  the  water  running  in  between  the  cob- 
ble-stones was  dyed  red,  like  poured  out  wine. 

These  unfortunate  animals  destined  for  to-morrow's 
corrida  were  almost  dragged  out  of  the  stables  to  be  ex- 
amined by  the  picadors. 

As  they  came  out  of  the  stables,  depressed  remnants 
of  equine  miser\',  they  betrayed  in  tlieir  trembling  legs, 
their  heaving  flanks,  their  starved  and  miserable  appear- 
ance, sad  signs  of  human  ingratitude,  of  the  forgetful- 
ness  of  past  sen'ices.  There  were  hacks  of  frightful 
thinness,  real  skeletons,  whose  sharp  and  pointed  bones 
seemed  ready  to  pierce  the  covering  of  long  and  tangled 
hair.  Others  holding  themselves  proudly,  with  raised 
heads  and  bright  eyes,  pawing  restlessly,  with  sounder 
legs  and  shining  coats,  animals  of  good  stamp,  who 
seemed  out  of  place  among  their  wretched  companions. 


3o8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

looking  as  though  they  had  only  just  been  unharnessed 
from  sumptuous  carriages,  were  in  reality  more  danger- 
ous to  ride,  as  they  were  probably  afflicted  with  vertigo 
or  staggers,  and  might  fall  to  the  ground  at  any  moment, 
pitching  their  riders  over  their  heads ;  and  among  these 
sad  examples  of  misery  and  decrepitude  were  also  in- 
valided workers  from  mills  and  factories,  agricultural 
horses,  cab  horses,  all  wearv'  with  long  years  of  hard 
work  dragging  ploughs  and  carts,  unhappy  outcasts  who 
were  to  be  sweated  up  to  the  last  moment  of  their  lives, 
diverting  the  spectators  by  their  kicks  and  bounds  of 
agony  when  they  felt  the  bull's  horns  pierce  their  belly. 

It  was  an  interminable  defile  of  bleared  and  yellow 
eyes,  of  galled  necks  on  which  were  battening  bright 
green  flies  gorged  with  blood,  of  bony  heads  whose  skin 
was  swarming  with  vermin,  of  narrow  chests  and  feeble 
legs,  covered  down  to  the  hoofs  with  hair  so  long  and 
shaggy  it  looked  almost  as  though  they  were  wearing 
trousers.  To  mount  these  decrepit  brutes,  shaking  with 
fright  and  almost  ready  to  drop  with  weakness,  required 
almost  as  much  courage  as  to  face  the  bull. 

Potaje  was  very  high  and  mighty  in  his  discussions 
with  the  horse  contractor,  speaking  in  his  own  name  and 
that  of  his  comrades  as  well,  making  even  the  "monos 
sabios"  laugh  with  his  gipsy  oaths.  The  other  picadors 
had  far  better  leave  him  to  manage  the  horse-dealers. 
No  one  knew  better  than  he  did  how  to  bring  those  sort 
of  people  to  terms. 

A  groom  came  out  leading  a  horse  Vvith  hanging  head, 
tangled  coat,  and  staring  ribs. 

"What  are  you  bringing  me  out  there?"  shouted  Po- 
taje, facing  the  contractor.  "A  (.rock  that  no  one  would 
dream  of  mounting." 

The  phlegmatic  contractor  replied  with  calm  gravity. 
"If  Potaje  did  not  dare  to  mount  it,  it  was  because  pica- 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  309 

dors  now-a-days  seemed  afraid  of  everything.  With  a 
horse  like  this,  so  good  and  docile,  Senor  Calderon,  or  El 
Trigo,  or  any  fine  rider  of  the  good  old  times  would  have 
been  able  to  fight  for  two  successive  afternoons  without 
getting  a  fall,  and  without  the  animal  receiving  a  scratch. 
But  now-a-days !  .  .  .  There  seemed  to  him  to  be  plenty 
of  fear  and  very  little  dash." 

The  contractor  and  the  picador  abused  one  another  in 
a  friendly  fashion,  as  if  the  grossest  insults  had  ceased 
to  have  the  slightest  meaning. 

"You  are  an  old  cheat,"  roared  Potaje,  "a  bigger  rascal 
than  Jose  Maria  el  Tempraniyo.  Get  out!  Hoist  your 
grandmother  up  on  the  old  brute,  a  far  better  mount  for 
her  than  the  broomstick  she  rides  every  Saturday  av 
midnight." 

Every  one  present  roared  with  laughter,  while  the 
contractor  shrugged  his  shoulders. 

"What's  the  matter  with  the  horse?"  he  asked  quietly. 
"Look  him  over  well,  old  grumbler.  He  is  far  better 
than  those  that  have  glanders,  or  staggers,  who  have  be- 
fore now  pitched  you  over  their  heads  and  planted  you 
tip  to  your  ears  in  the  sand,  before  you  could  face  the 
bull.  He  is  as  sound  as  an  apple.  For  the  five  and 
twenty  years  he  has  been  in  an  aerated  water  factory, 
doing  his  work  conscientiously,  no  one  has  ever  found 
fault  with  him,  and  now  you  come  along  shouting  and 
abusing  him,  taking  away  his  character  as  if  he  were  a 
bad  Christian." 

"I  won't  have  him,  that's  all!  .  .  .  If  he  is  so  good 
keep  him  yourself!" 

As  he  spoke  the  contractor  came  slowly  towards  Po- 
taje, and  with  the  sang-froid  of  a  man  accustomed  to 
such  transactions,  whispered  something  in  his  ear.  The 
picador,  pretending  to  be  very  angry,  finally  went  up  to 


310  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

the  horse.  He  did  not  wish  to  be  thought  an  intractable 
man  who  wanted  to  do  a  bad  turn  to  a  comrade. 

So  putting  one  foot  in  the  stirrup  he  let  the  whole 
weight  of  his  heavy  body  fall  on  the  poor  brute.  Then, 
steadying  his  garrocha  under  his  arm,  he  pushed  the 
point  against  a  large  post  built  into  the  wall,  striking  it 
several  times  with  all  his  strength,  as  if  a  large  and 
heavy  bull  were  at  the  lance's  point.  The  poor  horse 
shook  all  over  and  doubled  up  its  legs  after  each  con- 
cussion. 

"He  does  not  behave  so  badly,"  .  .  .  said  Potaje  in  a 
conciliatory  voice  .  .  .  "The  beast  is  better  than  I 
thought.  He  has  a  tender  mouth  and  good  legs  .  .  . 
You  are  quite  right.    Put  him  on  one  side." 

And  tlie  picador  dismounted,  disposed  to  accept  any- 
thing the  contractor  offered  after  his  mysterious  whisper. 

Gallardo  left  the  group  of  aficionados  who  were  watch- 
ing this  scene  with  amusement.  A  porter  belonging  to 
the  Plaza  took  him  to  the  yard  in  which  the  bulls  were 
enclosed. 

The  espada  went  through  a  little  wicket  giving  access 
to  the  enclosure,  which  was  surrounded  on  three  sides 
by  a  wall  of  masonry,  up  to  the  height  of  a  man's  shoul- 
ders. This  wall  was  strengthened  at  intervals  by  strong 
posts  which  supported  a  balcony  above.  Here  and  there 
opened  little  passages,  so  narrow  that  a  man  could  only 
slip  through  them  sideways.  In  this  courtyard  were 
eight  bulls,  some  quietly  lying  down,  others  turning  over 
the  piles  of  grass  lying  in  front  of  them. 

Gallardo  walked  along  in  the  passage  behind  the  wall 
examining  the  animals.  Now  and  then  he  slipped  into 
the  yard,  through  one  of  the  narrow  passages.  He 
waved  his  arms,  giving  savage  yells  which  roused  the 
bulls  from  their  quiescence.  Some  leapt  up  nervously, 
rushinfif  with  lowered  heads  at  the  man  who  ventured  to 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  311 

disturb  the  peace  of  their  enclosure,  others  stood  firmly 
on  their  feet,  with  raised  heads  and  savage  look,  waiting 
to  see  if  the  intruder  would  dare  to  approach  them. 

Gallardo  slipped  away  quickly  behind  the  wall,  con- 
sidering the  looks  and  disposition  of  the  fierce  creatures, 
without  coming  to  a  decision  as  to  which  he  should 
choose. 

The  head  shepherd  of  the  Plaza  accompanied  him,  a 
big  athletic  man  in  leather  gaiters  and  huge  spurs, 
dressed  in  a  thick  cloth  suit,  his  wide  sombrero  fastened 
under  his  chin  by  a  strap.  He  was  nicknamed  Lobato,^ 
and  was  a  roughrider  who  spent  the  greater  part  of  the 
year  in  the  open  country,  behaving  when  he  came  into 
Madrid  like  a  savage,  having  no  wish  to  see  the  streets, 
and  in  fact  never  leaving  the  purlieus  of  the  Plaza. 

For  him  the  capital  of  Spain  was  nothing  more  than  a 
Plaza  in  a  clearing,  with  desert  lands  surrounding  it, 
while  in  the  distance  lay  an  agglomeration  of  houses 
which  he  had  never  had  the  curiosity  to  explore.  The 
most  important  establishment  in  Madrid,  from  his  point 
of  view,  was  Gallina's  tavern,  situated  close  to  the  Plaza, 
a  place  of  delight,  an  enchanted  palace  where  he  supped 
and  dined  at  the  expense  of  the  management  before  re- 
turning to  his  pastures  mounted  on  his  horse,  his  dark 
blanket  on  the  saddle  bow,  his  saddle-bags  on  the  crupper 
and  his  lance  over  his  shoulder.  He  delighted  in  terror- 
ising the  servants  as  he  entered  the  tavern  by  his  friendly 
greetings,  terrible  hand  grips  which  crushed  their  bones 
and  drew  forth  screams  of  pain;  he  smiled,  delighted 
with  his  strength  and  being  called  a  brute,  and  then  sat 
down  to  his  pittance,  which  was  served  him  in  a  dish  as 
deep  as  a  basin,  accompanied  by  more  than  one  jar  of 
wine. 

He  herded  the  bulls  bought  by  the  management,  some- 
*WoIf  cub. 


312  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

times  in  the  pastures  of  Munoza,  at  others  during  the 
excessive  heat  on  the  grazing  uplands  of  the  Sierra  de 
Guadarrama.  He  brought  them  in  to  the  enclosure  two 
days  before  the  corrida  at  midnight,  driving  them  across 
the  Abronlgal  stream  and  through  the  outskirts  of  Ma- 
drid, accompanied  by  amateur  rough-riders  and  cowherds. 
He  was  rampant  when  bad  weather  prevented  a  corrida 
taking  place,  which  kept  the  herd  in  the  Plaza,  and  pre- 
vented his  immediate  return  to  the  peaceful  solitudes 
where  the  other  bulls  were  still  grazing. 

Slow  of  speech,  dull  of  thought,  this  centaur,  who 
smelt  of  leather  and  manure,  could  still  speak  eloquently, 
even  poetically  of  his  pastoral  life  herding  the  wild  bulls. 
The  sky  of  Madrid  seemed  to  him  lower  and  with  fewer 
stars.  He  could  describe  with  picturesque  laconicism  the 
nights  on  the  pastures,  with  his  bulls  sleeping  beneath 
the  soft  light  of  the  stars,  the  dense  silence  only  broken  by 
the  mysterious  noises  of  the  forest.  In  this  silence  the 
mountain  vipers  sang  with  strange  song,  yes,  Sefior,  cer- 
tainly they  sang.  It  was  a  thing  that  could  not  be  dis- 
cussed with  Lobato :  he  had  heard  them  a  thousand 
times,  and  to  doubt  it  was  to  call  him  a  cheat  and  a  liar, 
and  to  expose  oneself  to  the  weight  of  his  fists.  As  the 
reptiles  sang,  so  also  did  the  bulls  speak,  only  he  had  not 
yet  succeeded  in  mastering  all  the  mysteries  of  their 
idiom.  They  were  really  just  like  Christians,  except  that 
they  went  on  four  legs  and  had  horns.  You  should 
see  them  wake  when  the  sun  rose,  bounding  about  as 
happy  as  children,  pretending  in  fun  to  cross  their  horns 
and  fight  each  other,  chasing  each  other  with  noisy  en- 
joyment, as  if  they  were  saluting  the  coming  of  the  sim, 
which  is  the  glory  of  God.  Then  he  spoke  of  his  toilsome 
excursions  through  the  Sierra  de  Guadarrama,  following 
the  course  of  the  crystal-clear  rivulets,  which  brought  the 
melted  snow  from  the  mountains  to  feed  the  rivers;  of 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  313 

the  meadows,  with  their  verdure  enamelled  by  flowers; 
of  the  birds  who  came  fluttering  to  settle  between  the 
horns  of  the  sleeping  bulls;  of  the  wolves  who  howled 
afar  off  in  the  night,  always  far  off,  for  they  feared  the 
long  procession  of  wild  bulls  following  the  bells  of  the 
cabestros,  come  to  dispute  with  them  their  terrible  soli- 
tudes. Don't  let  any  one  speak  to  him  of  Madrid,  where 
one  suffocated!  The  only  good  thing  in  that  forest  of 
houses  was  Gallina's  good  wine  and  his  savoury  stews. 

Lobato  assisted  the  espada  with  his  advice  in  choosing 
his  two  bulls.  The  overseer  showed  neither  respect  nor 
astonishment  at  these  celebrated  men,  so  admired  by  the 
populace.  The  shepherd  of  the  bulls  almost  despised  the 
toreros.  To  kill  such  noble  animals,  with  every  sort  of 
trickery  and  deceit !  He  was  the  really  brave  man,  who 
lived  among  them,  passing  daily  between  their  horns  in 
the  solitudes,  with  no  other  defence  than  his  own  arm, 
and  no  thought  of  applause. 

As  Gallardo  left  the  enclosure  another  man  joined 
them,  who  saluted  the  maestro  with  great  respect.  It 
was  the  old  man  charged  with  the  cleaning  of  the  Plaza. 
He  had  been  a  great  many  years  in  this  employment,  and 
had  known  all  the  most  celebrated  toreros  of  his  day. 
He  was  very  poorly  dressed,  but  he  often  wore  beautiful 
rings,  and  to  blow  his  nose  would  draw  from  the  depths 
of  his  blouse  a  small  cambric  handkerchief  trimmed  with 
fine  lace  and  having  a  large  monogram,  still  exhaling  a 
delicate  scent. 

He  undertook  by  himself  during  the  week  the  sweep- 
ing of  the  immense  Plaza,  its  rows  of  seats  and  boxes, 
without  ever  complaining  of  the  overwhelming  work.  If 
the  manager  was  displeased  with  him  and  wished  to 
punish  him  he  would  open  the  doors  to  all  the  riffraff 
wandering  round  the  Plaza.    The  poor  man  would  be  in 


314  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

despair,  promising  amendment,  in  order  that  this  swarm 
of  people  should  not  take  over  his  work. 

Now  and  then  he  allowed  half  a  dozen  lads  to  help 
him;  these  were  generally  toreros'  apprentices,  and  were 
faithful  to  him  in  exchange  for  his  allowing  them  to 
watch  the  corrida  from  the  "dogs  box,"  that  is,  a  door 
with  an  iron  grating  situated  near  the  bulls'  boxes,  which 
was  used  for  taking  out  wounded  men.  These  helpers, 
holding  on  to  the  iron  bars,  fought  like  monkeys  in  a  cage 
to  obtain  first  place. 

The  old  man  distributed  their  weekly  cleansing  work 
cleverly  enough.  All  these  boys  worked  on  the  seats  of 
the  sunny  side,^  those  occupied  by  a  poor  and  dirty 
crowd,  who  left  as  evidence  of  their  presence  a  rubbish 
heap  of  orange  peel,  scraps  of  paper,  and  cigar  ends. 

"Look  out  for  the  tobacco,"  he  would  order  his  troup. 
"Whoever  filches  a  single  cigar  end  will  not  see  the  cor- 
rida on  Sunday." 

He  himself  worked  patiently  on  the  shady  side,  crouch- 
ing down  in  the  shadow  of  the  boxes  to  slip  any  finds  into 
his  pockets — such  as  ladies'  fans,  rings,  pocket-handker- 
chiefs, coins,  feminine  ornaments,  anything  that  an  inva- 
sion of  fourteen  thousand  people  might  have  left  behind 
them.  He  collected  the  scraps  of  cigar  ends,  chopping 
them  up  after  exposing  them  to  the  sun,  and  selling  them 
as  fine  tobacco.  The  more  valuable  finds  passed  into  the 
hands  of  a  dealer,  willing  to  buy  these  spoils  of  a  public, 
either  forgetful,  or  oblivious  from  excitement. 

Gallardo  responded  to  the  old  man's  obsequious  bows 
by  giving  him  a  cigar,  and  then  took  leave  of  Lobato. 
He  had  agreed  with  the  overseer  which  two  bulls  should 
be  specially  boxed  for  aim.  The  other  toreros  would 
not  object.    They  were  good  natured  young  fellows,  full 

*  The  sunny  side  corresponds  to  the  "gallery  gods"  or  the 
pit  with  us. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  315 

of  youthful  ardour,  who  would  kill  anything  that  was 
put  before  them. 

As  he  came  out  again  into  the  courtyard,  where  the 
selection  of  horses  was  still  in  progress,  Gallardo  saw 
a  tall  spare  man,  with  olive  complexion,  dressed  as  a  tor- 
ero, leave  the  group  and  come  towards  him.  Tufts  of 
iron-grey  hair  appeared  from  beneath  his  black  felt  hat, 
and  his  mouth  was  surrounded  by  many  wrinkles. 

"Pescadero!  How  are  you?"  said  Gallardo,  clasping 
his  hand  with  sincere  warmth. 

He  was  an  old  espada,  who  had  had  his  youthful  days 
of  triumph,  but  very  few  now  even  remembered  his 
name.  Other  matadors  coming  after  him  had  eclipsed 
this  fleeting  reputation,  so  Pescadero,  after  fighting  in 
America,  and  sustaining  several  cogidas,  had  retired  with 
a  little  capital  of  savings.  Gallardo  knew  that  he  owned 
a  small  tavern  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  circus,  but 
too  far  off  for  him  to  have  many  customers  among  the 
aficionados  and  toreros. 

*'I  cannot  often  come  to  the  corridas,"  said  Pescadero, 
sadly.  "Still,  you  see,  the  sport  draws  me,  and  I  drop  in 
as  a  neighbour  to  see  these  things.  Now-a-days  I  am 
nothing  but  a  tavern-keeper." 

Gallardo  looked  at  his  shabby  appearance,  and  remem- 
bered the  brilliant  Pescadero  he  had  known  in  his  child- 
hood, one  of  his  most  admired  heroes,  gallant  and  proud, 
favoured  by  women,  among  the  smartest  in  La  Campana 
whenever  he  came  to  Seville,  dressed  in  his  velvet  hat, 
his  wine  coloured  jacket  and  brightly  coloured  sash,  lean- 
ing on  an  ivory  stick  with  gold  handle.  And  so  would 
he  also  be ;  shabby  and  forgotten  if  he  retired  from  bull- 
fighting ! 

They  talked  a  long  time  about  things  appertaining  to 
the  art.  El  Pescadero,  like  all  elderly  men  embittered 
by  bad  luck,  was  pessimistic.    There  were  very  few  good 


3i6  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

toreros,  there  were  no  longer  men  of  "corazon."^  Only 
Gallardo  and  one  or  two  others  killed  bulls  "truly,"  even 
the  animals  seemed  less  powerful  than  formerly.  As 
he  had  met  the  matador  he  insisted  on  his  going  with  him 
to  his  house,  indeed  as  an  old  friend  he  could  do  no  less. 
So  Gallardo  turned  with  him  into  one  of  the  small  streets 
surrounding  the  Plaza,  and  entered  the  tavern,  which 
was  much  like  any  other,  its  fagade  painted  red,  windows 
with  curtains  of  the  same  colour,  a  larger  show  window, 
in  which  were  displayed,  on  dusty  plates,  cooked  cutlets, 
fried  birds,  bottles  of  pickles,  and  inside,  a  zinc  counter, 
barrels  and  bottles,  round  tables  with  wooden  stools  by 
them,  and  several  coloured  prints  representing  celebrated 
toreros  or  remarkable  episodes  in  corridas. 

"We  will  have  a  glass  of  Montilla,"  said  El  Pescadero 
to  a  young  man  standing  behind  the  counter,  who  smiled 
as  he  saw  Gallardo. 

The  latter  looked  at  his  face,  and  then  at  his  right 
sleeve,  which  was  empty  and  pinned  to  his  breast. 

"It  seems  to  me  I  know  you,"  said  the  matador. 

"I  should  think  you  did  know  him!"  cried  Pescadero. 
"It  is  Pipi." 

The  nickname  made  Gallardo  remember  his  history  at 
once.  A  plucky  youngster  who  stuck  in  his  banderillas 
in  most  masterly  fashion,  he  also  had  been  named  by 
the  aficionados  as  "the  torero  of  the  future."  Unluckily 
one  day  in  the  Plaza  in  Madrid  his  right  arm  had  been  so 
badly  gored  as  to  make  amputation  necessary,  and  he  had 
been  rendered  useless  for  further  bull-fighting. 

"I  took  him  in,  Juan,"  continued  El  Pescadero.  "I 
have  no  family  and  my  wife  died,  so  I  look  upon  him 
as  a  son.  Do  not  think  that  Pipi  and  I  live  in  plenty. 
We  live  as  we  can,  but  whatever  I  have  is  for  him.  We 
get  on,  thanks  to  old  friends  who  come  sometimes  to 
*  Heart — courage. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  317 

breakfast  or  to  play  a  game  of  cards,  and  above  all 
thanks  to  the  school." 

Gallardo  smiled.  He  had  heard  something  about  the 
school  of  Tauromachia  established  by  El  Pescadero  close 
to  his  tavern. 

"What  can  I  do  now  ?"  said  the  latter,  excusing  him- 
self. "One  must  help  oneself  on,  and  the  school  con- 
sumes more  than  all  the  customers  in  the  tavern.  A  great 
many  people  come,  young  gentlemen  who  wish  to  dis- 
tinguish themselves  at  the  'becerras,'^  foreigners  who  be- 
come bewitched  by  the  corridas,  and  who  wish  to  be- 
come toreros  in  their  old  age.  I  have  got  one  now  who 
comes  every  afternoon.    You  shall  see  him." 

They  crossed  the  street  towards  a  plot  of  ground  sur- 
rounded by  a  wall.  Across  the  joined  planks  which 
served  as  a  door  was  a  large  placard  on  which  was  writ- 
ten in  tar  "School  of  Tauromachia." 

They  went  in.  The  first  thing  that  attracted  Gallardo's 
attention  was  the  bull — an  animal  made  of  wood  and 
bamboos,  mounted  on  wheels,  with  a  tail  of  tow,  a  head 
of  plaited  straw,  and  pieces  of  cork  for  a  neck,  to  which 
were  attached  a  pair  of  real  and  enormous  horns  which 
struck  terror  into  the  pupils'  hearts. 

A  bare-breasted  lad,  in  a  cap  with  two  curls  of  hair 
above  his  ears,  was  the  creature  who  communicated  its 
intelligence  to  the  beast,  pushing  it  forward  when  the  pu- 
pils stood  opposite  to  it  with  their  capes  in  their  hands. 

In  the  middle  of  the  plot  stood  a  gentleman,  elderly, 
round  shouldered,  and  stout,  red  faced,  with  large  stiff 
grey  moustache,  in  his  shirt  sleeves,  with  a  banderilla  in 
either  hand.  Close  to  the  wall  seated  on  a  chair,  and 
leaning  on  another,  was  a  lady  of  about  the  same  age, 
and  not  less  stout  and  rubicund,  in  a  hat  covered  with 

*  Trials    of   yearling   calves. 


3i8  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

flowers.  Each  time  her  husband  executed  some  good 
stroke  the  piles  of  flowers  and  false  curls  shook  and 
waved  wildly  as  she  threw  herself  back  in  her  chair 
laughing  and  applauding  loudly. 

El  Pescadero  explained  to  Gallardo  that  most  prob- 
ably those  people  were  French  or  possibly  from  some 
other  country,  he  was  not  certain,  and  it  mattered  noth- 
ing to  him.  The  couple  seemed  to  have  travelled  all  over 
the  world  and  to  have  lived  everywhere;  to  judge  from 
his  stories,  he  had  been  a  miner  in  America,  colonist  in 
some  distant  island,  hunter  of  wild  horses  with  a  lasso 
in  America,  and  now  he  wished  to  earn  some  money  as 
torero,  and  came  every  afternoon  to  the  school  like  an 
obstinate  child,  but  he  paid  generously  for  his  lessons. 

"Just  imagine !  a  torero  with  that  figure !  .  .  .  And 
at  fifty  years  of  age  well  struck !"  .   .    . 

As  he  saw  the  two  men  enter,  the  pupil  dropped  his 
arms  holding  the  banderillas,  and  the  lady  arranged  her 
skirts  and  her  flowery  hat.    "Ah !  dear  master !  .   .   . " 

"Good  evening,  mosiu!"  "Your  servant,  madame," 
said  the  master  raising  his  hand  to  his  hat.  .  .  .  "Let 
me  see,  mosiu,  how  this  lesson  is  getting  on.  You  re- 
member what  I  told  you.  Stand  quiet  on  your  ground. 
Invite  the  'bicho,'  let  him  come,  and  when  he  is  by  your 
side  just  bend  your  hips  and  stick  the  darts  in  his  neck. 
You  need  not  be  anxious  to  do  anything,  the  bull  will  do 
everything  for  you.    Attention.  .  .  .   Are  you  ready?" 

And  the  professor  standing  a  little  aside  made  a  sign 
to  the  terrible  bull,  or  more  properly  to  the  urchin,  who 
with  his  hands  on  the  hind  quarters  was  pushing  him  to 
the  attack. 

"Eeeeh !  .   .   .     Enter,  Morito !" 

Pescadero  gave  a  fearful  bellow  to  induce  the  bull  to 
"enter,"  exciting  by  those  shouts  and  furious  stamping 
on  the  ground  this  terrible  beast  with  inside  of  air  and 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  319 

reeds  and  head  of  straw.  Morito  attacked  like  a  furious 
wild  beast  with  a  tremulous  rattle  of  wheels,  staggering 
and  butting  on  account  of  the  inequalities  of  the  ground. 
How  could  any  bull  from  the  most  famous  herd  com- 
pare in  intelligence  with  this  Morito,  immortal  beast; 
who  had  been  pierced  with  banderillas  and  rapier  thrusts 
a  thousand  times,  only  suffering  insignificant  wounds  that 
the  carpenter  had  been  able  to  cure !  He  seemed  cleverer 
than  any  man !  As  he  came  near  to  the  pupil,  he  slightly 
changed  his  course  in  order  not  to  touch  him  with  his 
horns,  going  off  with  a  pair  of  darts  well  stuck  into  his 
cork  neck. 

A  perfect  ovation  greeted  this  exploit,  the  banderillero 
remaining  firm  in  his  place,  arranging  his  braces  and  his 
shirt  cuffs.  His  wife,  wildly  delighted,  threw  herself 
back  in  her  chair  laughing  and  clapping. 

"Quite  masterly,  mosiu,"  shouted  El  Pescadero.  "A 
stroke  of  the  first  quality!" 

The  foreigner,  delighted  by  the  professor's  applause, 
replied  modestly,  beating  his  breast: 

"I  have  what  is  most  important — courage,  a  great  deal 
of  courage." 

Then,  in  order  to  celebrate  the  stroke,  he  called  on 
Morito's  sprite,  who  was  already  creeping  out,  antici- 
pating the  order,  to  fetch  them  a  bottle  of  wine.  When 
they  knew  that  the  man  who  accompanied  the  professor 
was  the  celebrated  Gallardo,  whose  portraits  they  had  so 
often  admired  on  cigarette  boxes,  their  delight  knew  no 
bounds,  and  they  clinked  glasses  of  wine  to  the  success  of 
the  torero,  even  Morito  taking  part  in  the  festival. 

"Before  two  months  are  over,  mosiu,"  said  El  Pesca* 
dero,  with  Andalusian  gravity,  "you  will  be  fixing  ban- 
derillas in  the  Plaza  in  Madrid,  and  carrying  off  all  the 
palms,  and  the  money,  and  the  women  .  .  .  saving  your 
lady's  presence." 


320  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

El  Pescadero  walked  with  Gallardo  as  far  as  the  end 

d{  the  street. 

"Adios,  Juan,"  he  said  gravely,  "we  may  see  each 
ether  in  the  Plaza  to-morrow.  .  .  .  You  see  how  low  I 
have  come,  that  I  have  to  live  on  these  humbugs  and 
idiots." 

Gallardo  walked  away  thoughtful.  Ay!  That  man, 
whom  he  had  seen  in  his  good  days  throw  away  money 
with  princely  generosity,  so  sure  was  he  of  his  future !  .  . . 

He  had  lost  his  money  in  bad  speculations,  and  a 
torero's  life  was  not  one  to  teach  the  management  of  a 
fortune.  And  yet  they  were  proposing  to  him  to  retire 
from  his  profession.  Never.  He  must  throw  himself 
on  the  bulls. 

The  next  day  he  felt  full  of  courage  and  went  to  the 
Plaza,  undisturbed  by  his  usual  superstitious  fears.  He 
felt  the  certainty  of  triumph,  the  high  heart-throb  of  his 
most  glorious  days. 

From  the  very  first  the  corrida  was  full  of  events. 
The  first  bull  showed  himself  very  "tenacious,"^  attack- 
ing furiously  all  the  men  on  horseback.  In  an  instant  he 
had  overthrown  three  picadors  who  were  waiting  for 
him  with  their  lance  in  rest,  two  of  the  horses  lay  dying, 
streams  of  dark  blood  gushing  out  of  their  torn  chests. 
The  otlier  one  mad  with  pain  and  terror  rushed  from  one 
end  of  the  Plaza  to  the  other,  his  belly  ripped  open  and 
the  saddle  hanging  loose,  showing  between  the  stirrups 
the  blue  and  red  entrails.  Dragging  its  bowels  along  the 
ground  and  trampling  them  itself  with  its  hind  legs,  they 
divided  themselves  like  a  knotted  skein  which  becomes 
gradually  disentangled. 

The  bull,  attracted  by  its  wild  rush,  followed  it  up 
close,  driving  his  powerful  head  under  the  belly,  lifting 

*\Vhen  a  bull  stands  by  the  object  of  his  attack — attacking  it 

again  and  again. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  321 

the  horse  on  his  horns,  throwing  it  on  the  ground,  and 
then  furiously  attacking  the  miserable,  torn  and  pierced 
carcass.  When  the  bull  left  it,  kicking  and  dying,  a 
"mono  sabio"  came  up  to  finish  it,  by  driving  the  steel  of 
his  dagger  through  the  top  of  the  skull.  The  miserable 
brute  in  the  extremity  of  its  agony  bit  the  man,  who 
screamed,  lifting  his  bloody  right  hand,  and  striking  home 
the  dagger  till  the  animal  ceased  to  struggle  and  the  limbs 
remained  rigid.  Then  other  employes  of  the  circus  ran 
up  with  large  baskets  of  sand  which  they  threw  in  heaps 
over  the  pools  of  blood  and  the  bodies  of  the  horses 

By  this  time  the  whole  audience  were  on  their  feet, 
shouting  and  gesticulating  wildly.  They  were  delighted 
at  the  bull's  fierceness  and  protested  loudly  at  there  being 
not  a  single  picador  left  in  the  arena,  yelling  with  one 
voice :    "Horses !     More  horses !" 

They  all  knew  well  enough  that  more  would  come  out 
immediately,  but  they  seemed  furious  that  another  in- 
stant should  go  by  without  fresh  butcheries.  The  bull 
remained  alone  in  the  centre  of  the  arena,  superb  and 
bellowing,  his  bloody  horns  held  high,  and  the  ribbon 
with  the  badge  of  his  herd  floating  on  his  neck,  which 
was  covered  with  red  and  blue  gashes 

Fresh  riders  came  out,  and  again  the  horrible  spectacle 
was  repeated.  As  soon  as  a  picador  with  his  lance  in 
rest  approached  the  bull,  bringing  up  his  horse  sideways 
with  one  eye  bandaged,  so  that  it  should  not  see  the  bull, 
the  shock  and  the  fall  were  instantaneous.  The  lances 
broke  with  the  splintering  of  dry  wood,  the  horse  was 
tossed  in  the  air  by  the  powerful  horns,  sprinkling  the 
arena  with  its  blood  and  bowels,  and  the  picador  rolled 
on  the  arena  like  a  yellow  legged  doll,  covered  immedi- 
ately by  his  companions'  capes. 

The  public  hailed  the  noisy  falls  of  the  riders  with 
laughter  and  exclamations  of  delight.     The  arena  rang 


322  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

with  the  shock  of  the  fall  of  the  heavy  bodies  with  their 
iron-clad  legs.  One  fell  like  a  full  sack,  his  head  striking 
the  wall  of  the  barrier  with  a  dull  echo. 

"That  one  won't  get  up,"  yelled  the  crowd.  "His 
melon  must  be  cracked." 

But  nevertheless  he  got  up,  stretching  his  arms,  rub- 
bing his  head,  and  picking  up  the  stout  beaver  which  had 
rolled  on  the  sand,  again  mounted  the  same  horse,  which 
the  "monos  sabios,"  by  dint  of  kicks  and  blows,  had  got 
on  to  its  feet,  and  bestriding  this  dying  mount,  with  its 
entrails  dragging  on  the  sand,  he  went  once  more  to  en- 
counter the  furious  beast. 

"This  is  for  you !"  he  shouted,  throwing  the  beaver  into 
a  group  of  friends. 

But  no  sooner  had  he  again  placed  himself  opposite 
the  bull,  driving  his  pike  into  its  neck,  than  man  and 
horse  were  once  more  tossed  in  the  air,  parting  company 
from  the  violence  of  the  shock,  each  one  rolling  to  a  dif- 
ferent side  of  the  arena.  Several  times  before  the  bull 
attacked,  the  "monos  sabios"  and  also  some  of  the  public 
had  advised  the  rider  to  dismount.  "Get  down,  get 
down."  But  before  his  stiffly  encased  legs  could  do  so, 
the  horse  would  fall  dead,  and  the  picador  would  be  sent 
flying  over  his  ears,  his  head  arriving  witli  a  heavy  blow 
on  the  sand. 

The  bull  had  not  succeeded  in  goring  any  of  the  riders, 
but  some  of  the  picadors  lay  insensible  on  the  ground, 
and  the  circus  servants  were  obliged  to  carry  them  out 
to  the  infirmary,  to  be  treated  for  broken  bones,  or  to  be 
revived  from  the  shock  which  seemed  like  death. 

Gallardo,  most  anxious  to  gain  the  sympathies  of  his 
public,  was  here,  there  and  everywhere,  earning  im- 
mense applause  by  seizing  the  bull's  tail  and  pulling,  till 
it  turned  away  from  the  picador  lying  on  the  ground  in 
danger  of  being  gored. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  323 

While  the  banderilleros  were  engaged,  Gallardo,  lean- 
ing on  the  barrier,  passed  the  boxes  in  review.  Doila  Sol 
was  sure  to  be  there.  At  last  he  caught  sight  of  her,  but 
without  the  white  mantilla.  There  was  nothing  about 
her  to  remind  one  of  the  lady  in  Seville  who  was  so  like 
one  of  Goya's  pictures.  With  her  golden  hair  and  her 
large  and  elegant  hat,  she  might  have  been  a  foreigner 
seeing  a  bull-fight  for  the  first  time.  By  her  side  sat  that 
man  of  whom  she  spoke  so  admiringly,  and  to  whom  she 
was  showing  the  sights  of  the  country.  Ay!  Dona  Sol! 
Soon  she  would  see  what  the  fine  fellow  she  had  deserted 
really  was !  She  would  have  to  applaud  him  even  in  the 
presence  of  the  hated  stranger;  she  would  become  en- 
thusiastic, even  against  her  will,  carried  away  by  the  con- 
tagion of  the  masses. 

When  the  time  came  for  Gallardo  to  kill  his  bull,  which 
was  the  second,  the  masses  received  him  cordially,  as  if 
they  had  forgotten  their  annoyance  at  the  previous  cor- 
rida. The  people  seemed  inclined  to  be  tolerant  after  the 
spell  of  wet  weather,  as  if  they  wished  to  find  everything 
good  in  the  long  expected  bull-fight.  Besides,  the  cour- 
age of  the  first  bull  and  the  great  mortality  among  the 
horses  had  put  the  crowd  in  a  splendid  humour. 

Gallardo  walked  towards  the  bull  with  his  head  un- 
covered after  the  "brindis,"  with  the  muleta  in  one  hand, 
and  in  the  other  the  rapier  waving  like  a  cane.  He  was 
followed,  though  at  a  prudent  distance,  by  El  Nacional 
and  another  torero.  Several  voices  from  the  sunny  side 
protested.  How  many  more  acolytes !  .  .  .  He  looked 
like  a  parish  priest  going  to  a  funeral ! 

"Go  out  everybody!"  shouted  Gallardo. 

The  two  peons  stopped,  because  it  was  said  in  a  voice 
which  left  no  ^oom  for  doubt. 

He  went  forward  till  he  came  close  to  the  beast,  and 
then  unfolded  the  muleta,  giving  some  passes  quite  in  his 


324  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

old  style,  even  placing  the  rag  on  the  slavering  muzzle. 
**A  pass,  ole!"  and  a  murmur  of  satisfaction  ran  over  the 
benches.  The  lad  from  Seville  was  again  worthy  of  his 
name,  he  had  regained  his  professional  pride.  He  was 
going  to  perform  some  of  his  old  strokes  as  in  his  best 
days.  His  muleta  passes  were  greeted  with  noisy  ex- 
clamations of  delight,  and  on  the  benches  his  partisans 
revived,  rebuking  his  enemies. 

That  afternoon  was  one  of  his  best.  When  they  saw 
the  bull  standing  motionless,  the  public  themselves  en- 
couraged him  with  their  advice.     "Now  then!     Strike!" 

Gallardo  threw  himself  on  the  bull  with  his  rapier  in 
front,  slipping  quickly  away  from  the  menace  of  the 
horns. 

The  applause  rang  out,  but  it  was  short,  and  followed 
by  a  threatening  murmur,  mingled  with  strident  whis- 
tling. The  enthusiasts  ceased  to  look  at  the  bull,  to  turn 
their  indignation  on  the  public.  What  injustice !  What 
want  of  knowledge!  He  had  entered  to  kill  splen- 
didly. .  .  . 

But  thousands  of  inimical  fingers  pointed  to  the  bull 
without  ceasing  their  protests,  and  the  whole  Plaza  joined 
them  in  a  deafening  storm  of  whistling. 

The  rapier  had  penetrated  slant  ways,  crossing  ths 
bull,  its  point  appearing  between  his  ribs  just  behind  the 
foreleg. 

F.very  one  gesticulated,  waving  their  arms  in  a  par- 
oxysm of  fury.  "What  a  scandal!  A  bad  novillero 
could  not  have  done  worse !" 

The  animal,  with  the  hilt  of  the  sword  in  his  neck  and 
the  point  appearing  from  the  wrench  of  the  espada's  arm 
began  to  hobble,  its  enormous  bulk  swaying  with  its  un- 
steady gait.  This  seemed  to  move  everv  one  to  a  gener- 
ous indignation.  "Poor  bull !  Such  a  good  one,  so 
noble  ..."     Many  threw  themselves  forward,  roaring 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  325 

with  fury,  as  if  they  intended  throwing  themselves  bodily 
into  the  arena.  *'Thief !  Son  of  a  .  .  .  !"  "To  torture 
a  'bicho'  like  that  who  is  better  than  he  is!  .  .  ."  All 
shouted,  seized  with  a  vehement  tenderness  for  the 
brute's  suffering,  just  as  though  they  had  not  paid  to  see 
its  death. 

Gallardo,  stupefied  at  his  deed,  bent  his  head  beneath 
the  whirlwind  of  insults  and  threats.  Cursed  bad  luck  I 
He  had  entered  to  kill  splendidly,  just  as  in  his  best  days, 
overcoming  the  nervous  shrinking  which  made  him  turn 
his  face  away  as  though  he  could  not  endure  the  sight  of 
the  brute  coming  down  on  him.  But  the  desire  to  avoid 
danger,  to  get  out  from  between  the  horns  as  quickly  as 
possible,  had  made  him  ruin  his  luck  by  that  disgraceful 
and  unskilful  stroke. 

The  bull,  after  limping  about  for  some  time  with  pain- 
ful staggering,  stood  still. 

Gallardo  took  another  sword  and  again  placed  himself 
in  front  of  the  beast. 

The  public  guessed  his  intention.  He  was  proceeding 
to  the  "descabello,"  the  only  thing  he  could  do  after  such 
a  criminal  stroke. 

He  leant  the  point  of  the  rapier  between  the  two  horns, 
while  with  the  other  hand  he  waved  the  muleta  so  that 
the  beast,  attracted  by  the  fluttering  cloth,  should  lower 
its  head  to  the  ground.  The  espada  struck  with  his 
rapier,  but  the  bull,  feeling  himself  wounded,  tossed  his 
head  wildly,  and  ejected  the  weapon. 

"One!"  roared  the  crowd  with  almost  laughable  una- 
nimity. 

The  matador  again  repeated  his  stroke,  and  once  again 
drove  in  the  rapier,  the  only  result  being  to  make  the 
brute  shiver. 

"Two !"  sang  out  from  the  gods  in  derision. 

A   fresh   attempt   onlv   succeeded  like   the   others   in 


326  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

drawing  a  low  bellow  from  the  tortured  animal. 

"Three !"  .  .  .  But  to  this  ironical  chorus  the  masses 
now  joined  whistles  and  cries  of  protest.  When  would 
that  matador  finish  it? 

On  the  fourth  attempt  he  succeeded  in  severing  the 
spinal  cord,  and  the  bull  fell  instantaneously,  lying  on  his 
side  with  his  legs  rigid. 

The  espada  wiped  the  perspiration  from  his  face  and 
walked  slowly  round,  almost  gasping  for  breath,  to  salute 
the  president.  At  last  he  was  free  from  that  animal.  He 
thought  he  never  would  have  finished  it.  On  his  way 
the  mob  either  greeted  him  sarcastically  or  with  contemp- 
tuous silence.  No  one  applauded.  He  saluted  the  presi- 
dent amid  the  general  indifference,  and  then  took  refuge 
behind  the  barrier,  like  a  school  boy  ashamed  of  his  mis- 
deeds. While  Garabato  offered  him  a  glass  of  v/ater  his 
eyes  ran  round  the  boxes,  meeting  those  of  Dofia  Sol, 
which  had  followed  him  to  his  refuge.  What  would  that 
woman  think  of  him?  How  she  would  laugh  with  her 
travelling  companion,  seeing  him  ridiculed  by  the  public ! 
What  an  unlucky  idea  of  hers  to  come  to  that  corrida ! 

He  remained  between  the  barriers,  trying  to  avoid  fur- 
ther fatigue,  till  the  last  bull  he  had  to  kill  should  come 
out.  His  broken  leg  pained  him  greatly  from  having  run 
so  much.  He  was  no  longer  the  same — he  was  obliged 
to  recognize  it.  All  his  confidence,  all  his  resolutions  of 
throwing  himself  on  the  bull  were  useless.  His  legs  were 
neither  as  light  nor  as  steady  as  formerly,  neither  had 
his  right  arm  that  daring  which  made  it  throw  itself  out 
without  fear,  anxious  to  reach  the  neck  of  the  bull  as 
soon  as  possible.  Now  it  drew  itself  in  against  his  will, 
with  the  cautious  instinct  of  certain  animals  who  think  if 
they  hide  their  faces  they  can  in  this  way  avoid  danger. 

His  old  superstitious  terrors  suddenly  reappeared, 
crushing,  overwhelming. 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  327 

"I  am  in  bad  luck,"  thought  Gallardo.  "My  heart  tells 
me  the  fifth  bull  will  catch  me.  He  will  catch  me,  nothing 
can  be  done!'* 

All  the  same,  when  the  fifth  bull  came  out  into  the 
Plaza  the  first  cape  to  meet  him  was  Gallardo's.  What 
an  animal!  He  looked  quite  different  from  the  one  he 
had  chosen  in  the  yard  the  evening  before.  Fear  went 
on  singing  in  the  torero's  ears.  "Bad  luck?  .  .  .  He 
will  catch  me;  to-day  I  shall  leave  the  circus  feet  fore- 
most." 

In  spite  of  this,  he  continued  playing  with  the  bull  and 
drawing  it  away  from  the  endangered  picadors.  At  first 
his  endeavours  were  received  in  silence,  but  later  the 
people  softened  a  little  and  applauded  him  feebly. 

When  the  supreme  moment  arrived  for  the  death  of 
the  bull,  all  present  seemed  to  guess  the  confusion  of  his 
mind.  His  play  was  disordered,  it  was  sufficient  for  the 
bull  to  shake  his  head  for  him  to  take  it  as  a  sign  of 
charging,  throwing  his  feet  backwards,  and  receding  by 
long  bounds,  while  the  public  greeted  those  attempts  at 
flight  with  a  chorus  of  mockery. 

"Juy !    Juy !    He  is  catching  you !" 

Suddenly,  as  if  he  wished  to  finish  it  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible in  any  way,  he  threw  himself  on  the  beast  with  his 
rapier,  obliquely,  to  get  out  of  the  dangei  as  quickly  as 
he  could.  There  was  an  explosion  of  whistling  and 
shouting.  The  rapier  had  only  gone  in  an  inch  or  two 
and  after  vibrating  in  the  brute's  neck,  was  ejected  by 
him  to  some  distance. 

Gallardo  turned  to  pick  up  the  rapier  and  again  ap- 
proached the  bull.  He  was  squaring  himself  to  go  in  to 
kill,  when  the  bull  charged  him  at  the  same  moment.  He 
wished  to  fly,  but  his  legs  had  no  longer  the  agility  of  for- 
mer days.  He  was  caught  and  rolled  over  by  the  impe- 
tus of  the  rush.    While  everyone  ran  to  his  help  Gallardo 


328  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

picked  himself  up,  covered  with  sand,  with  a  rent  in  the 
back  of  his  breeches,  through  which  his  shirt  tail  ap- 
peared, minus  a  shoe,  and  without  the  "mona"  which 
adorned  his  pigtail. 

That  gallant  and  dashing  young  fellow,  who  had  been 
the  admiration  of  the  populace  for  his  elegance,  now 
looked  pitiful  and  ridiculous,  with  his  shirt  tail  sticking 
out,  his  hair  disarranged  and  his  pigtail  fallen  down  and 
unfastened,  looking  like  a  wretched  tail. 

Many  capes  were  pityingly  spread  round  him  to  help 
and  protect  him,  while  the  other  espadas  with  generous 
comradeship  worked  the  bull  and  prepared  him  so  that 
Gallardo  might  finish  him  without  difficulty.  But  Gal- 
lardo  seemed  blind  and  deaf ;  the  sight  alone  of  the 
animal  was -enough  to  make  him  throw  himself  back  at 
the  slightest  sign  of  attack;  it  seemed  as  though  his  re- 
cent overturn  had  driven  him  mad  with  fright.  He  did 
not  seem  to  understand  what  his  comrades  said  to  him, 
and  with  frowning  brows  and  face  intensely  pale,  he 
stammered  out,  scarcely  knowing  what  he  said: 

"Go  out,  every  one !     Leave  me  alone !" 

While  terror  was  singing  in  his  heart:  "To-day  you 
will  die !     This  is  your  last  cogida  !" 

The  public  guessed  the  espada's  thoughts  by  the  wild- 
ness  of  his  movements. 

"He  is  terrified  of  the  bull !    Panic  has  seized  him  !** 

Even  his  most  fervent  partisans  were  ashamed  and  si- 
lent, unable  to  explain  a  thing  such  as  they  had  never 
seen  before. 

The  people  seemed  to  enjoy  his  terror  with  the  valour 
of  those  in  a  safe  place.  Others,  thinking  themselves  de- 
frauded of  their  money,  shouted  themselves  hoarse. 

Gallardo,  protected  by  his  companions'  capes,  took  ad- 
vantage of  any  opportunity  of  wounding  the  beast  with 
his  sword,  deaf  to  the  sarcastic  jests  of  the  populace; 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  329 

but  they  were  thrusts  the  animal  scarcely  seemed  to  feel. 
His  terror  at  being  caught  lengthened  his  arm,  making 
him  stand  far  off,  only  wounding  the  beast  with  the  point 
of  the  sword. 

Some  of  the  rapiers  shook  themselves  loose,  being 
scarcely  fixed  in  the  flesh,  others  remained  stuck  in  a 
bone,  but  the  greater  part  of  the  length  uncovered,  bend- 
ing with  the  brute's  movements.  The  bull  was  following 
the  circuit  of  the  barrier  bellowing  with  his  head  low,  as 
if  complaining  of  this  useless  torture.  The  espada  fol- 
lowed him,  muleta  in  hand,  anxious  to  finish  him,  yet 
dreading  to  expose  himself,  and  behind  him  came  a  whole 
troup  of  peons,  spreading  their  capes,  as  though  by  this 
fluttering  of  stuffs  they  were  trying  to  persuade  the  bull 
to  double  up  his  legs  and  to  lie  down  on  the  sand.  The 
bull's  progress  close  to  the  barrier,  with  his  neck  bristling 
with  rapiers,  provoked  storms  of  sarcasms  and  insults. 

*Tt's  like  la  Dolorosa  !"  ^  they  shouted. 

Others  compared  the  animal  to  a  pincushion  full  of 
pins. 

"Thief!    Bad  torero!" 

Others  insulted  the  torero  by  changing  his  name  to  the 
feminine. 

"Juanita !  Don't  run  into  danger." 

Much  time  was  being  lost,  and  part  of  the  audience 
becoming  furious  turned  towards  the  presidential  box. 

"Senor  Presidente!  How  long  is  this  scandal  to  go 
on?" 

The  President  made  a  gesture  which  silenced  the 
storm,  and  then  made  a  sign.  Soon  an  alguacil  in  his 
feathered  hat  and  fluttering  cape  was  seen  running  round 
the  barrier  to  the  spot  where  the  bull  was  standing,  then, 
directing  his   gesture   towards   Gallardo   he   raised  one 

*  The  Virgin  of  Seven  Sorrows  whose  heart  is  pierced  with 

swords. 


330  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

closed  fist  with  the  forefinger  outstretched.  The  mob 
applauded.  It  was  the  first  warning.  If  before  the  third 
the  matador  had  not  killed  his  bull,  it  would  be  taken 
back  to  the  yard,  and  the  matador  would  remain  under 
the  stigma  of  the  deepest  dishonour. 

Gallardo,  as  if  awakening  suddenly  from  his  somnam- 
bulism, crushed  by  this  threat,  placed  his  rapier  horizon- 
tally and  threw  himself  on  the  bull.  It  was  only  one  es- 
tocade  the  more  which  scarcely  penetrated  into  the  bull's 
body. 

The  espada  let  his  arms  fall,  utterly  disheartened.  Was 
that  brute  immortal !  The  rapier  thrusts  seemed  to  do 
him  no  harm.    It  seemed  as  though  he  would  never  die. 

The  futility  of  the  last  stroke  infuriated  the  people. 
They  all  rose  to  their  feet,  the  storm  of  whistling  became 
absolutely  deafening,  obliging  the  women  to  stop  their 
ears.  Oranges,  scraps  of  bread,  cushions,  any  projectile 
ready  to  hand,  was  hurled  into  the  arena  at  the  matador. 
From  the  sunny  side  came  stentorian  voices,  roars  like 
a  siren,  which  it  seemed  impossible  should  come  from 
human  throats,  a  horrible  din  of  cow-bells  rang  out  sud- 
denly like  a  tocsin,  while  from  the  benches  close  to  the 
bulls'  box  a  chorus  began  to  chant  the  "gori-gori"^  of 
the  dead. 

Many  turned  towards  the  President.  When  would  the 
second  warning  be  given?  Gallardo  wiped  the  sweat 
from  his  face  with  a  handkerchief,  looking  all  around 
him,  as  if  astounded  at  the  injustice  of  the  populace.  He 
turned  his  eyes  towards  Dona  Sol,  but  she  had  turned 
her  back  to  the  circus.  Did  she  feel  any  pity  ?  Or  was 
she  ashamed  of  her  condescensions  in  the  past? 

Again  he  threw  himself  on  the  bull  to  kill,  but  very 
few  could  see  what  was  happening,  for  the  spread  capes 
fluttering  incessantly  round  him  concealed  everything. 
^  The  "de  profundis." 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  331 

...  At  last  the  bull  fell,  a  stream  of  blood  rushing 
from  its  mouth. 

At  last !  .  .  .  The  public  quited  down  a  little,  ceasing 
to  thump,  but  still  continuing  shouting  and  whistling. 
The  animal  was  finished  by  the  puntilero,  he  was  fas- 
tened by  his  poll  to  the  team  of  mules,  and  dragged  out  of 
the  arena,  leaving  behind  him  a  broad  belt  of  smoothed 
sand  covered  with  blood-stains,  which  the  servants  ob- 
literated with  rakes  and  baskets  of  sand. 

Gallardo  hid  himself  between  the  barriers,  shrinking 
from  the  storm  of  insults  his  presence  raised.  There  he 
remained,  weary  and  panting,  his  leg  paining  him  greatly ; 
but,  in  the  midst  of  his  discouragement,  feeling  an  intense 
comfort  at  being  out  of  danger.  He  had  not  died  by  the 
bull's  horns  .  .  .  but  he  owed  it  to  his  prudence.  Ah ! 
that  public!  .  .  .  After  all  they  were  only  a  crowd  of 
murderers  anxious  for  a  man's  death,  as  if  they  alone 
loved  life! 

The  exit  from  the  Plaza  was  heart-rending,  through 
the  crowd  of  people  massed  outside,  carriages,  automo- 
biles, and  long  rows  of  tramways. 

Gallardo's  coach  was  obliged  to  go  slowly  to  avoid  run- 
ning over  the  crowds  coming  out  of  the  Plaza;  these 
opened  out  to  let  the  mules  pass,  but  on  recognizing  the 
espada  they  seemed  to  repent  of  their  courtesy. 

Gallardo  guessed  by  the  movement  of  their  lips  that 
they  were  insulting  him :  carriages  full  of  pretty  women 
in  white  mantillas  passed  close  to  him,  but  they  turned 
their  heads  away,  while  others  looked  at  him  with  pity- 
ing eyes. 

The  espada  drew  back  as  if  he  wished  to  pass  un- 
noticed, hiding  himself  behind  the  bulk  of  El  Nacional, 
who  sat  silent  and  frowning. 

A  group  of  urchins  following  the  carriage  began  to 
whistle,  while  many  walking  on  the  pavements  followed 


332  BLOOD  AND  SAXD 

their  example.  The  news  of  Gallardo's  fiasco  had  spread 
rapidly,  and  they  were  glad  of  an  opportunity  to  insult 
a  man  whom  they  imagined  had  gained  such  immense 
wealth. 

"Curse  them!  Why  are  they  whistling?  Have  they 
by  any  chance  been  to  the  corrida?  .  .  .  Has  it  cost 
them  any  money?"  .    .    . 

A  stone  struck  the  wheel,  and  the  ragamuffins  were 
shouting  close  to  the  step,  when  two  mounted  policemen 
rode  up  and  dispersed  the  hostile  manifestation,  after- 
wards escorting  the  whole  length  of  the  Calle  de  Alcala, 
the  famous  matador  Juan  Gallardo  .  .  .  **the  first  man 
in  the  world." 


CHAPTER  X 

The  following  Sunday,  as  the  cuadrilla  had  Just  en- 
tered the  circus,  some  one  knocked  loudly  at  the  Puerta 
de  Caballerizas. 

An  employe  of  the  Plaza  shouted  ill-humouredly  from 
inside  that  there  was  no  entrance  that  way,  they  must 
go  round  to  the  other  door,  but  as  the  voice  outside  con- 
tinued to  insist  he  finally  opened  the  door. 

A  man  and  a  woman  entered,  he  wearing  a  white  Cor- 
doban  felt  hat,  she  dressed  in  black  with  a  mantilla. 

The  man  shook  the  employe's  hand,  leaving  something 
in  it,  which  evidently  softened  his  asperity. 

"You  know  me,  do  you  not  ?"  .  .  .  said  the  new  comer. 
"Really,  don't  you  know  me?  I  am  Gallardo's  brother- 
in-law,  and  this  lady  is  his  wife." 

Carmen  looked  all  around  at  the  deserted  courtyard- 
Through  the  brick  walls  she  could  hear  the  sound  of  mu- 
sic and  the  humming  of  the  crowd,  varied  by  cries  of  en- 
thusiasm, or  murmurs  of  curiosity. 

"Where  is  he  ?"  enquired  Carmen  anxiously. 

"Where  should  he  be,  woman  ?"  replied  her  brother-in- 
law  roughly.  "In  the  Plaza,  fulfilling  his  duties  .  .  . 
It  is  folly  to  have  come  here.  What  a  flighty  woman  you 
are!" 

Carmen  looked  round  her  undecidedly,  perhaps  half 
repenting  having  come ;  after  all,  what  was  she  going  to 
do  there? 

The  employe,  whose  hand-shake  with  Antonio  had 
made  a  marvellous  difiference,  suggested  that  if  the  lady 

333 


334  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

wished  to  wait  till  the  end  of  the  corrida  she  could  rest 
in  the  gate-keeper's  room,  but  if  she  wished  to  see  the 
corrida  he  could  find  her  a  very  good  seat  even  if  she  had 
no  ticket. 

Carmen  was  terrified  at  this  proposal.  See  the  corrida? 
No !  She  had  never  seen  her  husband  fight ;  she  would 
wait  there  as  long  as  she  possibly  could. 

"God's  will  be  done!"  said  the  saddler  resignedly. 
"We  will  stay  here,  though  what  we  shall  see  opposite 
this  doorway  I  don't  know." 

About  mid-day  on  the  Saturday,  Carmen  had  called 
Antonio  into  the  matador's  study,  and  told  him  of  her 
intention  to  go  at  once  to  Madrid.  She  could  not  stay 
in  Seville,  she  had  had  a  week  of  restless  nights,  which 
her  imagination  had  peopled  with  horrible  scenes,  and  her 
feminine  instinct  made  her  fear  some  great  disaster.  She 
felt  she  must  be  by  Juan's  side,  she  did  not  know  why, 
nor  what  would  happen  on  the  journey,  all  she  wanted 
was  to  be  near  Gallardo. 

Life  was  not  worth  living  like  this.  She  had  seen  in 
the  papers  Juan's  great  fiasco  on  the  previous  Sunday. 
She  knew  his  professional  pride,  and  knew  he  could  not 
bear  this  misfortune  patiently.  The  last  letter  she  had  re- 
ceived from  him  had  plainly  showed  her  this. 

"No,  and  again  no,"  she  said  energetically  to  her 
brother-in-law's  objection.  "I  start  for  Madrid  this 
afternoon;  if  you  like  to  come,  well  and  good,  if  not,  I 
shall  go  alone.  Above  all,  not  a  word  to  Don  Jose;  he 
would  try  to  prevent  my  journey !"  .  .  . 

The  saddler  finally  agreed.  After  all  a  free  journey  to 
Madrid  was  not  a  thing  to  be  refused,  even  though  it 
were  in  such  dismal  company.  During  the  journey,  Car- 
men made  up  her  mind ;  she  would  speak  earnestly  to  her 
husband.  Why  go  on  bull-fighting?  Had  they  not 
enough  to  live  on?    He  must  retire  at  once  if  he  did  not 


I 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  335 

wish  to  kill  her.  This  corrida  must  be  the  last  one  .  .  ■ 
and  even  this  was  one  too  many.  She  hoped  to  arrive  in 
Madrid  in  time  to  prevent  her  husband  fighting,  feeling 
that  by  her  presence  she  might  prevent  some  catastrophe. 

"What  rubbish !  Just  like  a  woman !  If  they  get  a 
thing  into  their  heads  it  must  be  so.  Do  you  think  there 
are  no  authorities,  or  laws,  or  rules  in  a  Plaza  ?  that  it  is 
enough  for  a  woman  to  be  frightened  and  want  to  run 
and  kiss  her  husband  for  the  corrida  to  be  stopped  and 
the  public  disappointed  ?  You  may  say  whatever  you  like 
to  Juan  afterwards,  but  by  now  he  will  be  at  the  corrida. 
There  is  no  trifling  with  the  authorities ;  we  should  all  be 
sent  to  jail." 

When  they  arrived  in  Madrid,  he  had  to  exert  all  his 
powers  of  persuasion  to  prevent  his  companion  rushing 
to  her  husband's  hotel.  What  would  be  the  result  ?  She 
would  disturb  him  by  her  presence,  send  him  to  the  Plaza 
in  a  bad  humour,  upset  his  calmness,  and  then  if  any- 
thing happened  all  the  fault  would  be  hers. 

This  reflection  steadied  Carmen,  making  her  give  in  to 
her  brother-in-law's  wishes  and  go  to  an  hotel  of  his 
choosing,  where  she  spent  the  morning  lying  on  a  sofa 
crying  as  if  she  considered  misfortune  imminent.  The 
saddler,  delighted  to  find  himself  in  Madrid  and  comfort- 
ably lodged,  was  furious  with  this  despair,  which  seemed 
to  him  ridiculous. 

The  hotel  was  near  the  Puerta  del  Sol,  and  the  noise  of 
the  carriages  and  people  going  to  the  corrida  reached  her. 
She  could  not  stay  in  the  house,  she  must  see  him.  She 
had  not  courage  enough  to  go  to  the  spectacle,  but  she 
wished  to  feel  near  him,  and  she  wished  to  go  to  the 
Plaza.  Where  was  the  Plaza?  She  had  never  seen  it. 
Even  if  she  could  not  go  in,  she  could  wander  round  it, 
feeling  that  her  near  presence  might  influence  Gallardo's 
luck. 


336  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  saddler  expostulated.  By  the  life  of  .  .  .  He 
certainly  intended  to  go  to  the  corrida,  he  had  gone  out 
to  buy  his  ticket,  and  now  Carmen  prevented  his  enjoy- 
ing the  fiesta,  by  wanting  to  go  to  the  Plaza  herself. 

"What  can  you  do  when  you  get  there?  What  good 
can  your  presence  do?  Just  think,  if  Juaniyo  caught 
sight  of  you !" 

But  to  all  his  arguments  Carmen  replied  with  the  same 
obstinacy. 

"If  you  do  not  care  to  come  with  me,  I  will  go  alone." 

Antonio  ended  by  giving  in,  and  they  drove  to  the 
Plaza  together,  entering  by  the  Puerta  de  Caballerizas- 
The  saddler  remembered  the  Plaza  well,  as  he  had  ac- 
companied Gallardo  on  one  of  his  journeys  to  Madrid 
during  the  spring. 

He  and  the  employe  both  felt  out  of  humour  with 
that  v/oman  with  the  red  eyes  and  streaming  cheeks 
who  stood  in  the  court-yard  not  knowing  what  to 
do.  .  .  .  The  two  men  heard  the  noise  of  the  people 
and  the  music  in  the  Plaza.  Were  they  going  to  stay 
there  all  night  without  seeing  the  corrida? 

At  last  the  employe  had  a  happy  inspiration. 

"Perhaps  the  lady  would  like  to  go  into  the 
chapel !"  .  .  . 

The  procession  of  the  cuadrillas  was  ended,  and 
through  the  doorway  several  horsemen  came  trotting 
back  from  the  circus ;  these  were  the  picadors  who  were 
not  on  duty,  and  who  withdrew  from  the  arena,  ready  to 
replace  their  comrades  when  required.  Tied  to  rings  on 
the  wall  were  a  row  of  saddled  horses,  the  first  who 
would  have  to  go  into  the  circus  in  place  of  any  killed. 
Behind  these  the  picadors  were  employing  their  wait  by 
making  their  horses  pirouette  and  turn,  and  a  stable- 
boy  was  galloping  a  restless  horse  to  quiet  it  before 
giving   it   over   to   the   picadors.     All   the   horses   were 


I 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  337 

kicking,  plagued  by  flies,  and  dragging  at  their  halters 
as  if  they  scented  the  danger  close  at  hand. 

Carmen  and  her  brother-in-law  were  obliged  to  take 
refuge  beneath  the  arcades,  and  finally  the  torero's  wife 
accepted  the  man's  invitation  to  go  into  the  chapel.  It 
was  a  safe  and  quiet  spot,  and  possibly  in  there  she  might 
do  something  to  help  her  husband. 

When  she  found  herself  in  the  holy  place,  close  and 
hot  from  the  crowd  of  people  who  had  watched  the 
torero's  prayers,  she  fixed  her  eyes  in  astonishment  on 
the  poverty  of  the  altar.  Four  lights  only  were  burn- 
ing before  the  Virgin  of  the  Dove,  which  seemed  to  her 
a  wretched  tribute. 

She  opened  her  purse  to  give  a  duro  to  the  employe. 
Could  he  not  bring  some  more  tapers?  .  .  .  The  man 
scratched  his  head.  Tapers?  tapers?  In  the  purlieus 
of  the  Plaza  such  things  were  not  to  be  found.  But 
he  suddenly  remembered  that  the  sisters  of  a  certain 
matador  always  brought  some  wax  tapers  whenever  he 
fought  there,  and  the  last  supply  was  not  all  con- 
sumed, they  must  be  in  some  corner  of  the  chapel. 
After  a  long  search  they  were  found,  but  there  were 
no  candlesticks ;  however,  the  employe  was  a  man  of 
resource,  and  fetching  some  empty  bottles  he  stuck  the 
candles  in  their  necks  and  placed  them  among  the  other 
lights. 

Carmen  knelt  down,  and  the  two  men  took  advantage 
of  her  absorbed  devotion  to  rush  away  to  the  Plaza, 
anxious  to  see  the  first  events  of  the  corrida. 

She  remained  alone  contemplating  with  curiosity  the 
dusty  painting  reddened  by  the  Hghts.  She  did  not 
know  this  Virgin,  but  surely  she  must  be  gentle  and 
kind,  like  the  one  in  Seville,  to  whom  she  had  prayed 
so  often.  Besides,  she  was  the  toreros'  Virgin,  the 
one  who  heard  their  last  prayer,  when  coming  danger 


335  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

gave  those  rough  men  a  pious  sincerity.  On  that 
pavement  also  her  husband  had  often  knelt. 

Her  lips  moved,  repeating  the  prayers  with  auto- 
matic speed,  but  her  thoughts  wtre  far  away,  attracted 
by  the  noise  of  the  crowd  which  reached  her. 

Ay!  the  roaring  of  that  intermittent  volcano,  the 
surging  of  those  distant  waves,  broken  at  times  by  a 
tragic  silence.  .  .  .  Carmen  fancied  she  could  unseen 
watch  the  corrida.  She  could  guess  by  the  different  in- 
tonations of  the  noises  in  the  Plaza  the  course  of  the 
tragedy  which  was  being  unfolded  in  the  circus.  Some- 
times it  was  an  explosion  of  indignant  cries  accom- 
panied by  whistling,  at  others  thousands  and  thousands 
of  voices  seemed  uttering  unintelligible  words.  Sud- 
denly there  was  a  scream  of  terror,  long  and  strident, 
which  seemed  to  rise  even  to  heaven,  a  terrified  and 
gasping  exclamation  which  made  her  see  thousands  of 
outstretched  heads,  pale  with  emotion,  following  the 
rapid  rush  of  a  bull  on  the  tracks  of  a  man  .  .  .  but  the 
cries  suddenly  ceased  and  calm  returned.  The  danger 
was  past. 

Sometimes  there  were  long  spells  of  absolute  silence, 
in  which  the  humming  of  the  flies  could  be  heard,  a 
silence  so  profound  it  seemed  as  if  the  immense  circus 
must  be  empty,  as  if  the  fourteen  thousand  people  on 
its  benches  did  not  even  breathe,  and  that  Carmen  her- 
self was  the  only  living  creature  within  its  walls. 

Suddenly  this  silence  was  broken  by  an  immense 
and  noisy  uproar,  so  loud  one  would  have  thought  that 
every  brick  in  the  building  was  knocking  against  its 
neighbour,  a  wild  volley  of  applause  which  made  the 
whole  place  shake.  In  the  courtyard  close  by  the  chapel 
the  sound  of  whacks  on  the  loins  of  the  horses  tied 
there  was  heard,  then  the  sound  of  iron  hoofs  on  the 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  339 

pavement,  lastly  the  sound  of  voices.  "Who  is  hit?" 
And  fresh  picadors  were  called  into  the  arena. 

To  these  distant  noises  were  now  joined  others  nearer 
and  more  terrifying.  The  sound  of  steps  to  the  rooms 
near,  doors  hurriedly  opened,  the  panting  breathing, 
and  gasping  voices  of  several  men,  as  if  they  were 
staggering  under  a  great  weight. 

"It  is  nothing  .  .  .  only  a  bruise.  You  are  not  bleed- 
ing, before  the  corrida  is  ended  you  will  be  on  your 
horse  again." 

A  hoarse  voice,  weak  with  pain,  moaned  between 
sighs  in  an  accent  which  reminded  Carmen  of  her  own 
country. 

"Ohf  Virgin  of  Solitude!  I  think  something  is 
broken;  search  well,  doctor  .  .  .  Ay!  my  children!" 

Carmen  trembled  with  fright.  She  raised  her  eyes, 
suffused  with  terror,  to  the  Virgin.  She  felt  as  if  she 
might  fall  fainting  on  the  floor;  she  tried  again  to  pray, 
not  to  listen  to  the  noises  from  outside,  transmitted 
through  the  walls  with  such  desperate  clearness.  But 
in  spite  of  her  endeavour,  the  sound  of  splashing  water 
fell  on  her  ears,  and  the  sounds  of  men's  voices,  prob- 
ably the  doctors,  encouraging  the  patient. 

"Virgin  of  Solitude!  .  .  .  My  children!  .  .  .  What 
will  become  of  my  poor  angels  if  their  father  cannot 
fight?"  .  .  . 

Carmen  rose.  Ay!  she  could  bear  it  no  longer,  she 
should  faint  if  she  remained  longer  in  that  dark  place 
terrified  by  those  cries  of  pain.  She  must  have  air,  get 
out  into  the  sun.  She  fancied  she  felt  in  her  own  bones 
all  the  pain  that  unknown  man  was  suffering. 

She  went  out  into  the  courtyard.  There  was  blood 
on  every  side!  Blood  on  the  ground,  and  blood  round 
some  pails  in  which  the  water  was  coloured  red. 

The  picadors   were   coming  out   of   the   circus,   the 


340  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

banderllleros  were  having  their  turn  now,  the  riders 
came  in  on  their  horses  stained  with  blood,  their  flesh 
torn,  their  entrails  hanging  down. 

The  riders  dismounted,  talking  with  animation  of  the 
events  of  the  corrida.  Carmen  watched  Potaje's  pon- 
derous humanity  get  down  stiffly  and  heavily,  swearing 
at  the  mono  sabio,  who  did  not  help  his  descent  with 
sufficient  alacrity.  He  seemed  benumbed  by  his  heavy 
iron  leggings  and  by  the  pain  of  various  bruises ;  he 
raised  one  hand  ruefully  to  rub  his  shoulders,  but  all 
the  same  he  smiled,  showing  all  his  yellow  tusks. 

"Have  you  all  seen  how  fine  Juan  has  been?"  he 
said  to  those  surrounding  him.  "To-day  he  has  been 
quite   splendid." 

As  he  noticed  the  only  woman  in  the  patio  and  recog- 
nized her,  he  showed  no  sort  of  surprise. 

"You   here,   Sefiora   Carmen !     That's    right !"  .  .  . 

He  spoke  quietly,  as  if  his  habitual  vinous  somno- 
lence  and  his  natural  stupidity  prevented  anything  sur- 
prising him. 

"Have  you  seen  Juan?"  he  went  on.  "He  lay  down 
on  the  ground  in  front  of  the  bull,  under  its  very  nose. 
No  one  can  do  what  that  Gacho  does.  .  .  .  You  should 
go  and  see  him,  for  to-day  he  is  splendid." 

Some  one  called  him  from  the  infirmary  door;  his 
companion,  the  other  picador,  w^ished  to  speak  to  him 
before  being  taken  away  to   the   hospital. 

"Adio,  Sena  Carmen.  I  must  go  and  see  what  the 
poor  fellow  wants.  A  bad  fracture,  they  say.  He  will 
not  be  able  to  work  again  this  season." 

Carmen  took  refuge  beneath  the  arcades ;  she  tried  to 
close  her  eyes,  not  to  see  the  horrible  spectacle  in  the 
courtyard,  while  at  the  same  time  she  felt  fascinated  by 
the  crimson  pools  of  blood. 

The  monos  sabios  led   in  the  wounded  horses,  who 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  341 

were  dragging  their  entrails  along  the  ground.  As  she 
saw  them,  the  head  man  in  charge  of  the  stables  bustled 
about  in  a  fever  of  activity. 

"Now,  my  lads,  hurry  up!"  ...  he  shouted  to  the 
stable  lads.     "Gently!  .  .  .  Gently,  there!" 

A  stable-boy  went  carefully  up  to  the  horse  who  was 
rearing  with  pain,  and  took  the  saddle  off;  then  he 
tied  ropes  round  his  four  feet,  drew  them  together  and 
threw  him, 

"Now,  my  fine  fellow!  .  .  .  Gently,  gently  with  him!" 
he  shouted  to  the  man,  never  ceasing  to  move  his  own 
hands  and  feet. 

The  stable  lads  in  their  shirt  sleeves,  leant  over  the 
animal's  ripped-up  belly,  from  which  were  gushing 
streams  of  blood  and  water,  endeavouring  to  put  back 
by  handfuls  the  slippery  entrails  hanging  out  of  it. 

Others  held  the  animal's  reins,  putting  a  foot  on  its 
head  to  keep  it  on  the  ground.  Its  muzzle  twitched 
with  pain,  and  its  teeth  rattled  together  with  the  anguish 
of  its  torment,  while  its  agonized  squeals  were  smoth- 
ered by  the  pressure  on  its  head.  The  bloody  hands 
of  the  workers  endeavoured  to  replace  the  bowels  in  the 
empty  cavity,  but  the  gasping  breathing  of  the  unfortu- 
nate animal  constantly  blew  out  again  the  entrails  the 
men  were  pushing  in  like  bundles.  At  last  they  were 
all  pushed  back  into  the  stomach,  and  the  lads  with  the 
quickness  of  long  habit  sewed  the  sides  of  the  wound 
together. 

After  the  animal  was  mended  with  this  barbarous 
promptitude,  a  pail  of  water  was  thrown  over  its  head, 
its  legs  were  freed  from  the  ropes,  and  a  few  kicks  and 
blows  with  a  stick  made  it  scramble  on  to  its  feet.  Some 
only  walked  a  few  steps,  falling  down  again,  with  tor- 
rents of  blood  rushing  from  the  re-opened  wound.  This 
meant  mstantaneous  death.     Others  stood  up  apparently 


342  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

stronger,  from  their  immense  resources  of  animal  vital- 
ity, and  the  lads  after  mending  them  up  took  them  off 
to  the  courtyard  to  be  "varnished."  There  their  stom- 
ach and  legs  were  cleansed  by  several  pailsful  of  watef 
thrown  over  them,  which  left  their  white  or  chestnut 
coats  bright  and  shining,  while  streams  of  bloody  water 
ran  down  their  legs  on  to  the  ground. 

They  mended  the  horses  just  like  old  shoes,  pro- 
longing their  agony  and  retarding  their  death,  working 
their  weakness  up  to  the  last  possible  moment.  Frag- 
ments of  their  entrails  which  had  been  cut  off  to  facili- 
tate the  repairing  operation  lay  about  the  floor.  Other 
fragments  lay  in  the  circus,  covered  with  sand,  till  the 
death  of  the  bull  should  permit  of  the  attendants  col- 
lecting the  remains  in  their  baskets.  Very  often  these 
rough-and-ready  practitioners  supplied  the  horrible  ab- 
sence of  the  lost  organs  by  handfuls  of  tow  stuffed  into 
the  stomach.  The  chief  thing  was  to  keep  these  miser- 
able animals  on  foot  a  few  moments  longer  till  the  pica- 
dors should  return  to  the  arena,  when  the  bull  would 
soon  take  charge  and  finish  the  work. 

Even  here  the  noisy  shouts  of  the  invisible  crowd 
reached  Carmen.  Sometimes  they  were  exclamations 
of  anxiety ;  an  "Ay !  Ay !"  from  thousands  of  voices  that 
told  of  the  flight  of  a  banderillero  closely  pursued  by  the 
bull.  Then  there  would  be  absolute  silence.  The  man 
had  again  turned  on  the  brute  and  the  noisy  applause 
broke  out  once  more  when  he  had  skilfully  fixed  two 
more  darts.  Then  the  trumpets  sounded,  announcing 
that  the  time  for  the  death  stroke  had  come,  and  the 
applause  rang  out  afresh. 

Carmen  wished  to  go  away.  Virgin  of  Hope !  What 
was  she  doing  there?  She  was  ignorant  of  the  routine 
that  the  matadors  followed  in  their  work.  Possibly 
that  blast  indicated  the  moment  when  her  husband  had 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  343 

to  face  the  bull.  And  she  was  there,  only  a  few  steps 
away,  and  unable  to  see  him!  If  she  could  only  get 
away  and  escape  from  this  torment. 

Besides,  the  blood  running  over  the  courtyard  sick- 
ened her,  and  the  poor  brutes'  sufferings.  Her  womanly 
sensitiveness  rose  up  against  such  tortures,  and  she  put 
her  handkerchief  to  her  face,  nauseated  by  the  smell  of 
the  butcheries. 

She  had  never  been  to  a  bull-fight.  A  great  part  of 
her  life  had  been  spent  in  hearing  about  corridas,  but  in 
the  accounts  of  the  fiestas  she  had  never  heard  or  seen 
anything  beyond  the  outside,  just  what  all  the  world  saw 
or  heard  of,  the  exploits  in  the  arena  under  the  brilliant 
sun,  the  flash  of  silk  and  gold  embroideries,  all  the  sump- 
tuous procession,  knowing  nothing  of  the  odious  prep- 
arations taking  place  in  the  secrecy  of  the  outbuildings. 
And  they  lived  from  this  fiesta,  with  its  repulsive  tor- 
turing of  weak  animals !  Their  fortune  had  been  made 
from  such  spectacles! 

Tremendous  applause  broke  out  in  tlie  circus.  In  the 
courtyard  an  imperious  voice  gave  orders.  The  first 
bull  had  just  been  killed;  the  gates  at  the  end  of  the 
passage  of  the  Puerta  de  Caballos  giving  access  to  the 
circus  were  thrown  open,  and  the  roars  of  the  crowd 
poured  in  louder  and  louder  still,  with  the  echoes  of  the 
music. 

The  mule  teams  had  trotted  into  the  Plaza,  one  to 
bring  out  the  dead  horses,  and  the  other  to  drag  out  the 
carcass  of  the  bull. 

Carmen  caught  sight  of  her  brother-in-law  coming 
along  under  the  arcades,  still  trembling  from  excitement 
at  what  he  had  seen. 

*7uan  ...  is  colossal!  He  has  never  been  anything 
like  this  afternoon!  Have  no  fear!  He  seems  to  eat 
up  the  bulls  alive!" 


344  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

Then  he  looked  at  her  anxiously,  afraid  she  might 
make  him  lose  such  an  interesting  afternoon.  What  did 
she  decide  to  do?  Did  she  feel  brave  enough  to  come 
into  the  Plaza? 

"Take  me  away!"  she  cried  in  agonized  tones.  "Get 
me  out  of  here  as  quickly  as  possible.  I  feel  ill.  .  .  . 
You  can  leave  me  in  the  nearest  church." 

The  saddler  pulled  a  face.  By  the  life  of  Roger!  .  .  . 
To  leave  such  a  magnificent  corrida !  .  .  .  And  all  the 
while  he  was  taking  Carmen  towards  the  door  he  was 
thinking  how  soon  he  could  leave  her  and  return  to  the 
circus. 

When  the  second  bull  came  out,  Gallardo  was  still 
leaning  on  the  barrier,  receiving  the  congratulations  of 
his  friends.  What  courage  that  fellow  had  .  .  .  when 
he  chose !  The  whole  Plaza  had  applauded  him  with  the 
first  bull,  forgetting  their  anger  at  the  previous  corridas. 
When  a  picador  remained  on  the  ground  insensible  from 
his  fall,  Gallardo  had  rushed  up  with  his  cape,  and  by 
a  series  of  magnificent  "veronicas"  had  drawn  the  bull 
to  the  centre  of  the  arena,  eventually  leaving  him  wear- 
ied out  and  motionless  after  his  furious  rushes  at  the 
deceiving  red  cloth.  The  torero,  taking  advantage  of 
the  brute's  bewilderment,  stood  erect  a  few  paces  from 
his  muzzle,  presenting  his  body  as  though  defying  him. 
He  felt  the  strong  heart-throb — the  happy  precursor  of 
his  greatest  deeds.  He  knew  he  must  reconcile  his 
public  by  some  sudden  dash  of  audacity,  and  quietly 
he  knelt  down  opposite  the  horns,  albeit  with  a  certain 
precaution,  ready  to  slip  away  at  the  slightest  sign  of 
a  charge. 

The  bull  remained  quiet.  Then  he  put  forward  one 
hand  till  he  touched  its  foam  flecked  snout — still  the 
animal  remained  quiet.  Then  he  dared  something  which 
plunged  the  audience  into  palpitating  silence.     Slowly 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  345 

he  lay  down  on  the  sand,  using  the  cape  on  his  arm  as 
a  pillow,  and  so  he  remained  for  some  seconds,  below 
the  very  nostrils  of  the  brute,  who  sniffed  at  this  body 
placing  itself  so  daringly  beneath  his  horns,  evidently 
suspecting  some  hidden  danger. 

When  the  bull,  recovering  his  aggressive  fierceness, 
lowered  his  horns,  the  torero  rolled  towards  his  hoofs, 
putting  himself  in  this  way  out  of  his  reach,  and  the 
animal  passed  over  him,  seeking  in  his  bHnd  ferocity  for 
the  object  to  attack. 

Gallardo  rose,  dusting  the  sand  from  his  clothes,  and 
the  audience,  always  loving  daring  deeds,  applauded  him 
with  all  the  enthusiasm  of  former  days.  They  quite 
understood  that  the  torero's  display  of  courage  was  an 
attempt  at  reconciliation  with  themselves,  an  effort  to 
regain  their  affection.  He  had  come  to  the  corrida  ready 
for  any  feat  of  daring  which  would  earn  their  plaudits. 

"He  is  often  over  careful,"  they  said  on  the  benches — 
"often  he  is  weak,  but  he  has  toreros'  pride,  and  he  is 
regaining  his  name." 

Their  delighted  excitement  at  Gallardo's  exploit  and 
the  death  of  the  first  bull  turned  to  bad  humour  and 
expostulations  as  they  saw  the  second  bull  enter  the 
arena.  He  was  of  enormous  size  and  fine  appearance, 
but  he  began  to  trot  all  round  the  arena,  looking  with 
astonishment  at  the  howling  masses  of  people  crowded 
on  the  seats,  frightened  by  the  cries  and  whistling  with 
which  they  endeavoured  to  excite  him,  and  running 
away  from  his  own  shadow,  imagining  all  sorts  of 
snares.  The  peons  ran  towards  him  spreading  their 
capes.  He  attacked  the  red  cloth  for  an  instant,  then 
suddenly  giving  a  snort  of  surprise  he  turned  tail  and 
ran  away  in  the  opposite  direction  with  leaps  and 
bounds.     His  agility  for  flight  made  the  people  furious 

"He  is  not  a  bull !  ...  he  is  a  monkey !" 


346  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

The  maestros'  capes  finally  attracted  him  towards  the? 
barrier,  where  the  picadors  waited  for  him  motionless 
on  their  horses,  their  garrochas  tinder  their  arms.  He 
came  up  to  a  rider  with  lowered  head  and  fierce  snorts, 
as  though  intending  to  attack,  but  before  the  iron  could 
be  driven  into  his  neck  he  gave  a  bound  and  fled,  passing 
between  the  peons'  outstretched  capes.  In  his  flight  he 
ran  against  another  picador,  repeating  the  bound,  the 
snort,  and  the  flight.  Then  he  ran  against  a  third  pica- 
dor, who  caught  him  fairly  on  the  neck  with  his  gar- 
rocha,  increasing  in  this  way  both  his  fear  and  his  ve- 
locity. 

The  audience  had  risen  to  their  feet  en  masse  gestic- 
ulating and  shouting,  A  craven  bull !  What  an  abomi- 
nation! .  .  .  They  all  turned  towards  the  presidential 
box,  shouting  their  protests:  *'Senor  Presidente!  This 
cannot  be  allowed." 

From  several  of  the  rows  came  a  chorus  of  voices 
repeating  the  same  word  with  monotonous  iteration. 

"Fire  .  .  .  fire!" 

The  President  seemed  doubtful.  The  bull  was  rush- 
ing all  about  the  ring,  followed  by  the  toreros,  with  their 
capes  on  their  arms.  When  some  of  them  succeeded 
in  getting  in  front  of  him  and  stopping  him,  he  would 
sniff  the  cloths  with  his  usual  snort  and  run  off  in 
another  direction,  kicking  and  bounding. 

These  flights  increased  the  noisy  expostulations :  "Se- 
iior  Presidente,"  was  his  Worship  blind?  Then  bottles, 
oranges,  and  seat  cushions  began  to  shower  into  the 
arena  round  the  fugitive  beast.  The  masses  loathed  him 
for  a  coward.  Some  of  them  stretched  over  into  the 
arena,  as  if  they  intended  tearing  the  animal  to  pieces 
with  their  own  hands.  What  a  scandal!  To  see  in  the 
Madrid  Plaza  oxen  only  fit  for  meat !     Fire !  fire ! 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  347 

At  last  the  President  waved  a  red  handkerchief,  and 
a  salvo  of  applause  greeted  the  gesture. 

The  fire  banderillas  were  a  quite  extraordinary  spec- 
tacle, something  entirely  unexpected,  which  greatly  in- 
creased the  interest  of  the  corrida.  Many  who  had 
shouted  themselves  hoarse  were  privately  delighted  at 
the  incident.  They  would  see  the  bull  burning  alive, 
rushing  about  mad  with  terror  at  the  lightnings  fastened 
into  his  neck. 

El  Nacional  came  forward  carrying  two  large  bander- 
illas seemingly  wrapped  in  black  paper,  hanging  points 
dov/nward.  He  went  towards  the  bull  without  any 
great  precautions,  as  though  his  cowardice  did  not  de- 
serve any  high  art,  and  stuck  in  the  infernal  darts  amid 
the  vindictive  acclamations  of  the  populace. 

Immediately  there  was  an  explosion,  and  two  puffs 
of  smoke  ran  along  the  animal's  neck.  In  the  sunlight 
the  fire  could  not  be  seen,  but  the  hair  disappeared, 
singed,  and  a  black  mark  began  to  spread  over  the  neck. 

The  bull,  surprised  at  the  attack,  accelerated  his  flight, 
as  if  this  could  free  him  from  the  torture,  till  suddenly 
short  sharp  detonations  like  gun  shots  were  heard  pro- 
ceeding from  his  neck,  and  showers  of  ash  paper  flew 
about  his  eyes.  The  beast  bounded  with  the  agility  of 
terror,  all  four  feet  off  the  ground  at  once,  twisting  his 
head  in  the  vain  endeavour  to  tear  out  with  his  teeth 
these  demoniacal  darts  fixed  in  his  flesh.  The  mob 
laughed  and  applauded,  thinking  these  bounds  and  con- 
tortions extremely  amusing.  The  animal,  in  spite  of  his 
size  and  weight,  seemed  to  be  performing  a  dance  like 
some  trained  animal. 

"How  they  sting  him!"  exclaimed  the  populace  with 
ferocious  laughter.  When  the  banderillas  had  ceased 
to  explode  the  melted  fat  on  the  neck  formed  little  bub- 
bles, and  the  bull  no  longer  feeling  the  sting  of  the  fire 


348  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

stopped  short,  his  head  hanging,  his  eyes  bloodshot,  his 
muzzle  covered  with  foam,  and  his  red  dry  tongue  lick- 
ing the  sand  in  search  of  moisture. 

Another  banderillero  came  up  and  stuck  in  a  second 
pair  of  darts.  Once  more  the  puffs  of  smoke  ran  along 
the  scorched  flesh,  and  the  detonations  recommenced. 
Wherever  he  rushed,  twisting  his  massive  body  in  his 
struggles  to  get  tlie  darts  out  of  his  neck,  the  infernal 
detonations  went  with  him ;  but  now  his  movements  were 
less  violent,  it  seemed  as  though  his  vigorous  animalism 
was  being  subdued  by  the  torture. 

A  third  pair  of  darts  were  fixed  in,  and  from  the 
burning  flesh  a  nauseous  odour  of  melted  fat,  burnt  hide, 
and  singed  hair  spread  throughout  the  arena. 

The  public  still  applauded  with  vindictive  frenzy,  as 
if  the  poor  animal  were  an  opponent  of  their  religious 
beliefs,  and  they  were  performing  a  holy  work  by  this 
burning.  They  laughed  as  they  saw  him  unsteady  on 
his  legs,  bellowing  with  sharp  screams  of  pain,  seeking 
in  vain  for  something  to  cool  his  tongue. 

Gallardo  awaited,  leaning  on  the  barrier  near  the 
presidential  box,  the  signal  to  kill,  while  Garabato  held 
the  rapier  and  muleta  ready  prepared  resting  on  the  top 
of  the  barrier. 

Curse  him !  The  corrida  had  begun  so  well,  and  now 
evil  fate  had  reserved  this  bull  for  him,  a  bull,  more- 
over, of  his  own  choosing  on  account  of  his  fine  ap- 
pearance, and  who,  now  he  was  in  the  arena,  turned 
out  a  cur! 

He  excused  himself  beforehand  to  the  connoisseurs 
who  were  leaning  over  the  barrier,  for  his  probably 
indifferent  work. 

'T  will  do  what  I  can,  but  it  probably  won't  be  much," 
said  he,  shrugging  his  shoulders. 

Then  he  glanced  round  the  boxes,  fixing  his  eyes  on 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  349 

the  one  occupied  by  Dona  Sol,  She  had  applauded  him 
before  when  he  executed  his  stupendous  exploit  of  lying 
down  before  the  bull.  Her  gloved  hands  had  clapped 
enthusiastically  when  he  had  turned  towards  the  barrier 
saluting  the  audience.  Now,  when  she  realised  that  the 
torero  was  looking  at  her,  she  saluted  him  with  a  kindly 
gesture,  and  even  her  companion,  that  odious  fellow, 
made  a  stiff  bow,  as  if  he  were  breaking  in  two  at  the 
waist.  He  had  surprised  her  several  times  with  her 
opera-glasses  fixed  persistently  on  him,  or  searching 
for  him  when  he  retired  behind  the  barriers.  Ah!  that 
gachi !  .  .  .  Possibly  she  felt  once  more  attracted  by 
his  courage.  Gallardo  thought  he  would  go  and  see  her 
the  following  day,  possibly  the  wind  might  have  changed. 

The  trumpets  gave  the  signal  to  kill,  and  the  espada, 
after  making  a  short  "brindis,"  walked  towards  the  bulL 

All  the  enthusiasts  shouted  their  advice. 

"Kill  him  quickly !  He  is  an  ox  who  deserves  noth- 
ing!" 

The  torero  spread  his  muleta  before  the  brute,  who 
attacked,  but  slowly,  as  if  warned  by  his  previous  tor- 
ture, but  with  the  evident  intention  of  crushing  and 
wounding,  the  suffering  having  awakened  his  fierceness. 
That  man  was  the  first  who  had  stood  before  him  since 
his  torment  began. 

The  crowd  felt  their  vindictive  anger  towards  the  bull 
vanishing.  After  all  he  was  not  turning  out  so  badly. 
He  was  attacking  well.  Ole!  And  they  all  welcomed 
the  torero's  passes  with  delight,  confounding  the  torero 
and  the  bull  in  the  same  noisy  approval. 

The  bull  remained  motionless,  his  head  lowered,  his 
tongue  hanging  out.  There  fell  on  the  crowd  that  si- 
lence always  preceding  the  mortal  estocade,  a  silence 
even  greater  than  absolute  solitude,  as  it  came  from 
thousands  of  hard-held  breathings.     The  silence  was  so 


350  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

profound  that  the  slightest  noise  reached  to  the  topmost 
benches.  All  heard  the  rattle  of  the  pieces  of  wood 
knocking  against  each  other.  It  was  Gallardo,  who 
with  the  point  of  his  rapier  was  setting  aside  the  burnt 
banderillas  which  had  fallen  down  between  the  horns. 
After  this  arrangement,  which  would  facilitate  the  mor- 
tal stroke,  the  crowd  stretched  their  necks  even  further 
forward,  feeling  the  mysterious  intercourse  re-estab- 
lished between  their  will  and  that  of  the  matador.  Now ! 
they  all  said  to  themselves,  he  would  overthrow  the  bull, 
with  one  masterly  stroke.  They  all  felt  the  espada's  de- 
termination, 

Gallardo  threw  himself  on  the  bull,  and  all  the  popu- 
lace breathed  loudly  after  their  breathless  expectation. 
But  from  the  encounter  the  animal  emerged,  rushing 
with  furious  bellowing,  while  the  benches  broke  out 
into  whistling  and  protests.  The  same  thing  had  hap- 
pened once  again.  Gallardo  had  turned  away  his  face 
and  shortened  his  arm  at  the  moment  of  killing.  The 
animal  carried  off  the  rapier  in  his  neck,  loose  and  bend- 
ing, and  after  a  few  steps  the  steel  blade  flew  out  of  the 
flesh,  rolling  on  the  sand. 

Some  of  the  people  blamed  Gallardo,  and  the  spell 
which  had  united  them  to  the  espada  at  the  beginning 
of  the  fiesta  was  broken.  Their  distrust  of  the  torero 
reappeared  and  their  irritating  censures.  All  seemed  to 
have  forgotten  their  late  enthusiasm. 

Gallardo  picked  up  his  rapier,  with  bent  head,  and 
without  the  heart  to  protest  against  the  discontent  of  a 
crowd  so  tolerant  to  others,  so  harsh  and  unjust  towards 
himself,  and  turned  again  towards  the  bull. 

In  his  confusion  he  thought  some  other  torero  placed 
himself  by  his  side,     It  was  El  Nacional. 

"Steady,  Juan !     Don't  get  flurried." 
Curse    it!  .  .  .     Was    this    same   thing   always   going 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  351 

to  happen  to  him?  Could  he  not  put  his  arm  between 
the  horns  as  formerly  and  drive  the  rapier  in  up  to  the 
hilt?  Was  he  going  to  spend  the  rest  of  his  life  as  a 
laughing-stock  for  the  public?  An  ox  whom  they  had 
been  obliged  to  fire!  .  .  - 

He  placed  himself  opposite  the  animal,  who  seemed 
waiting  for  him,  steady  on  its  legs.  He  thought  it  use- 
less  to  make  any  more  passes  with  the  muleta.  So  he 
placed  himself  "in  profile"  with  the  red  cloth  hanging 
on  the  ground,  and  the  rapier  horizontal  at  the  height 
of  his  eye.    Now  to  thrust  in  his  arm ! 

With  a  sudden  impulse  the  audience  rose  to  their  feet, 
for  a  few  seconds  the  man  and  the  bull  formed  one 
single  mass,  and  so  moved  on  some  steps.  The  con- 
noisseurs were  already  waving  their  hands  anxious  to 
applaud.  He  had  thrown  himself  in  to  kill  as  in  his 
best  day.    That  was  a  "true"  estocade! 

But  suddenly  the  man  was  thrown  out  from  between 
the  horns  by  a  crushing  blow,  and  rolled  on  the  sand. 
The  bull  lowered  his  head,  picking  up  the  inert  body, 
lifting  it  for  an  instant  on  his  horns  to  let  it  fall  again, 
then  rushing  on  his  mad  career  with  the  rapier  plunged 
up  to  the  hilt  in  his  neck. 

Gallardo  rose  slowly,  the  whole  Plaza  burst  out  into 
uproarious,  deafening  applause,  anxious  to  repair  their 
injustice.  016  for  the  man!  Well  done  the  lad  from 
Seville!     He  had  been  splendid! 

But  the  torero  did  not  acknowledge  these  outbursts 
of  enthusiasm.  He  raised  his  hand  to  his  stomach, 
crouching  in  a  painful  curve,  and  with  his  head  bent 
began  to  walk  forward  with  uncertain  step.  Twice  he 
raised  his  head  as  if  he  were  looking  for  the  door  of 
exit  and  fearing  not  to  be  able  to  find  it,  finally  stag- 
gering like  a  drunken  man,  and  falling  flat  on  the  sand. 

Four  of  the  Plaza  servants  raised  him  slowly  on  their 


352  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

shoulders,  El  Nacional  joining  the  group,  to  support  the 
espada's  pale  Hvid  head,  with  its  glassy  eyes  just  show- 
ing through  the  long  lashes. 

The  audience  started  with  surprise,  and  their  plaudits 
ceased  suddenly.  They  looked  around  at  each  other 
unable  to  make  up  their  minds  as  to  the  gravity  of  the 
accident.  ,  .  .  Soon  optimistic  news  circulated,  but  no 
one  knew  from  whence  it  came.  ...  It  was  nothing, 
only  a  tremendous  blow  in  the  stomach  which  had  de- 
prived him  of  consciousness,  but  no  one  had  seen  any 
blood. 

The  populace,  suddenly  tranquilized,  sat  down,  aum- 
ing  their  attention  from  the  wounded  torero  to  the  bull, 
who,  though  in  the  agonies  of  death,  still  remained  firm 
on  his  feet. 

El  Nacional  helped  to  place  his  master  on  a  bed  in 
the  infirmary.  He  fell  on  it  like  a  sack,  inanimate,  his 
arms  hanging  over  either  side  of  the  bed. 

Sebastian,  who  had  so  often  seen  the  espada  bleeding 
and  wounded,  without  ever  losing  his  calm,  now  felt 
the  agony  of  fear,  seeing  him  lifeless,  with  his  face  of 
a  greenish  whiteness  as  if  he  were  already  dead. 

"By  the  life  of  the  blue  dove!"  he  groaned.  '*Are 
there  no  doctors?    Is  there  no  help  anywhere?" 

The  infirmary  doctors,  after  attending  to  the  injured 
picador,  had  run  back  to  their  box  in  the  Plaza. 

The  banderillero  was  in  despair,  seconds  seemed 
hours,  as  he  shouted  to  Garabato  and  Potaje  to  come 
and  help  him,  not  knowing  quite  what  he  said  to  them. 

The  doctors  arrived,  and,  after  closing  the  door  to 
remain  undisturbed,  they  stood  undecidedly  before  the 
espada's  inanimate  body.  They  must  undress  him,  and 
Garabato  began  to  unpin,  unsew  and  tear  the  torero's 
clothes. 

El  Nacional  hardly  saw  the  body.    The  doctors  were 


BLOOD  AND  SAND  353 

surrounding  the  wounded  man,  consulting  each  other 
by  their  looks.  It  must  be  a  collapse  which  had  appar- 
ently deprived  him  of  life.  There  was  no  blood  to  be 
seen,  and  the  rents  in  his  clothes  were  no  doubt  tkc 
result  of  his  toss  by  the  bull. 

Doctor  Ruiz  entered  hurriedly,  the  other  doctors  mak- 
ing way  for  him,  acknowledging  his  superiority.  Ho 
swore  in  his  nervous  hurry  as  he  helped  Garabato  to 
undo  the  torero's  clothes. 

There  was  a  start  of  wonder,  of  painful  surprise 
round  the  bed.  The  banderillero  did  not  dare  to  en- 
quire, he  looked  between  the  doctors'  heads  at  Gal- 
lardo's  body.  His  shirt  was  drawn  up,  and  he  saw  that 
the  stomach,  which  was  uncovered,  was  torn  by  a  jagged 
wound  with  bloody  lips,  from  between  which  the  bluish 
viscera  were  protruding. 

Doctor  Ruiz  shook  his  head  sadly.  Besides  the  ter- 
rible and  incurable  wound,  the  torero  had  received  a 
tremendous  shock  from  the  bull's  head.  He  was  no 
longer  breathing. 

"Doctor!  doctor!"  moaned  the  banderillero,  imploring 
to  know  the  truth. 

And  Doctor  Ruiz,  after  a  long  silence,  turned  his 
head. 

"It  is  finished,  Sebastian.  .  .  .  You  must  seek  an- 
other matador." 

El  Nacional  raised  his  eyes  to  heaven.  Was  it  pos- 
sible that  such  a  man  should  die  in  this  way,  unable  to 
clasp  a  friend's  hand,  unable  to  say  a  word,  suddenly, 
like  a  wretched  rabbit  whose  neck  you  wring! 

Despair  drove  him  from  the  infirmary.  Ay!  he  could 
not  stay  and  look  at  that!  He  was  not  like  Potaje,  who 
stood  motionless  and  frowning  at  the  foot  of  the  bed- 
twisting  his  beaver  in  his  hand,  looking  at  the  bcdy  ?>? 
if  he  saw  it  not. 


354  BLOOD  AND  SAND 

In  the  courtyard  he  had  to  stand  aside  to  let  some 
picadors  pass  who  were  returning  to  the  circus. 

The  terrible  news  had  begun  to  run  through  the  Plaza. 
Gallardo  was  dead!  .  .  .  Some  doubted  the  truth  of 
the  news,  others  affirmed  it,  but  no  one  moved  from 
their  seats.  They  were  going  to  loose  the  third  bull. 
The  corrida  was  only  in  its  first  half,  and  they  really 
could  not  give  it  up. 

Through  the  great  doorway  came  the  noise  of  the 
crowd  and  the  sound  of  music. 

The  banderillero  felt  a  fierce  hatred  arise  in  his  heart 
for  everything  surrounding  him;  a  disgust  and  aversion 
to  his  profession  and  to  those  who  maintained  it. 

He  thought  of  the  bull  who  was  now  being  dragged 
out  of  the  arena,  with  his  neck  burnt  and  bloody,  his  legs 
stiff  and  his  glassy  eyes  gazing  up  at  the  sky. 

Then  he  thought  of  the  friend  lying  dead  a  few 
paces  from  him,  only  the  other  side  of  a  brick  wall. 
His  limbs  also  rigid,  his  stomach  ripped  open,  and  a 
mysterious  dull  light  shining  through  his  half  open  eye- 
lids. 

Poor  bull!  Poor  espada!  .  .  .  And  suddenly,  as 
noisy  cries  of  delight  burst  out  in  the  circus  applauding 
the  continuation  of  the  spectacle.  El  Nacional  closed  his 
eyes  and  clenched  his  fists. 

It  was  the  roaring  of  the  wild  beast,  the  true  and  only 
one. 


GLOSSARY 


As  certain  Bull-fighting  terms  have  no  possible  En^ 
lish  equivalents,  a  short  explanatory  glossary  is  aj>- 
pended,  but  the  Spanish  terms  will  be  used  throughout 
the  book. 

Alguacil. — Policeman.  In  this  case  a  kind  of  steward 
of  the  ring  and  master  of  the  ceremonies. 

La  Alternativa. — Ceremony  in  the  bull-ring  by  which  a 
rising  torero  is  recognised  by  his  superiors  as 
a  finished  matador,  and  henceforward  he  ranks 
with  them  as  a  master  of  his  profession. 

Aiicion. — The  sport,  bull-fighting  more  especially.  Ford 
and  Sir  Richard  Burton  translate  this  as  "the 
fancy,"  the  "fraternity." 

Aficionados. — Devotees  of  the  sport — amateurs — ^pa- 
trons. 

Banderilla. — Darts  stuck  into  the  bull's  neck. 

Banaerillero. — Man  who  fixes  the  darts  into  the  bull. 

Cuadrilla. — The  matador's  troupe,  composed  of  two  ban- 
derilleros,  two  picadors  on  horseback,  three 
peons  on  foot,  and  one  dagger  man.  The  dis- 
cipline is  most  severe,  implicit  obedience  being 
exacted. 

Capea, — A  bull  run  consisting  merei>  of  dexterous  cape 
play,  in  which  no  horses  are  employed,  and  the 


35^  Glossary — continued 

bull  is  not  killed  except  at  the  owner's  wish. 
The  capeas  on  the  Saints'  day  festivals  in 
different  villages  are  the  practising  grounds  oi 
young  toreros. 

Corrida. — Any  sort  of  bull-fight,  whether  officially  rec- 
ognised, as  in  the  large  bull-rings,  or  merely 
the  baiting  of  young  bulls  and  calves  at  capeas. 

Cogida. — Any  sort  of  injur)--  received  during  a  bull- fight 
— literally  "a  catching." 

Diestro,  Torero,  Espada,  Matador. — Synonymous  terms 
for  the  matador  who  kills  the  bulls  with  his 
rapier. 

Fiesta. — Any  popular  holiday,  whether  of  the  Church 
or  otherwise. 

0/^.— Hurrah!     Well  done! 

Novillo. — Young  bull  up  to  four  years  old. 

Novillada. — Baiting  of  young  bulls,  as  at  the  capeas. 

Novillero. — The  young  toreros  who  bait  the  young  bulls. 

Picador. — A  man  on  horseback  who  attacks  the  btil- 
with  a  lance. 


