ARYAN    MISCELLANY, 


ASTROLOGICAL    SERIES. 


THE 

BR1HAT     JATAKA 

OF 

VARAHA  MIHIRA. 


TRANSLATED     INTO     ENGLISH 
BY 

N.  CHIDAMBARAM  AIYAR,  B.A., 

Fellow  of  the  Theosoplfical  Society  and  Founder  of  the 
Tirnradi  Jotistantra  Sablm. 


Second  Edition  -Revised  and  Enlarged. 


1905. 
MADRAS : 

PRINTED  BY  THOMPSON"  &  CO.,  IN  THE  "  THEOSOPHIST  '* 

DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  "  MINERVA  "  PRESS, 

33,  POPHAM'S  BROADWAY. 

FOR  SALE  AT  THE  THEOSOPHIST  OFFICE, 

ADYAR,  MADRAS,  INDIA. 

[Registered  Copyright.] 


\ 


/  x/  r/u 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION. 


The  First  Edition  was  carefully  revised  and  partly 
re-\vritten  and  enlarged  by  my  brother  the  Translator  a 
few  years  before  his  death,  which  occurred  in  January  1892. 
Since  then,  a  new  Edition  was  much  in  demand  by  the 
Public,  both  Indian  and  Foreign,  but  owing  to  many 
unforeseen  difficulties  I  have  not  been  able  to  bring  out 
the  Edition  earlier. 

It  was  the  intention  of  my  late  lamented  brother  to 
incorporate  in  this  Edition  a  supplementary  chapter  on 
the  great  many  varieties,  curious  and  wonderful,  of  planet- 
ary and  other  yogas  from  higher  treatises  on  Horoscopy 
and  also  to  publish  a  key  to  this  work  which  would  have 
enhanced  the  value  of  the  book  and  facilitated  the  work 
of  the  ordinary  reader.  But  unfortunately  his  unexpected 
death  has  made  the  fulfilment  impossible. 

My  thanks  are  due  to  Col.  H.  S.  Olcott,  President 
Founder  of  the  Theosophical  Society,  Adyar,  but  for  whose 
hearty  co-operation  I  could  not  have  now  brought  out  this 
book. 

AKYAN  MISCELLANY  OFFICE,  i 

MADURA,  ^N.  V1SVANATHA  AIYAR. 

2ltk  November  1U05.        J 


2005793 


.nor 


CONTENTS. 


Introduction 

Astrological  Terms  Indexed 


PAGE. 

.        I 

.     27 


HAl'TKK. 

I.  Definitions  and  Elementary  Principles 

(Zodiacal)    ... 

II.  Do.                    do.               (Planetary)... 

I 1 1.  Animal  and  Vegetable  Horoscopy 

IV.  Nishekakala  or  the  Time  of  Conception 
V.  Matters  connected  with  Birth  Time 

VI.  Balarishta  or  Early  Death 

VII.  Ayurdaya  or  the  Determination  of  the  Length 

of  Life 

VIII.  Planetary  Divisions  and  Sub-Divisions  of  Life 

known  as  Dasas  and  Antar-Dasas 

IX.  Ashtaka-Vargas                   ...             ...             ... 

X.  Avocation 

XL  Raja  Yogas  or  the  Birth  of  Kings  ... 

XII.  Nabhasa  Yogas 

XIII.  Chandra  or  Lunar  Yogas  ...  ...             ... 

XIV.  Double  Planetary  Yogas  ... 
XV.  Ascetic  Yogas 

XVI.  The  Nakshatras  or  the  Moon  in  the  Asterisms. 

XVII.  The  Moon  in  the   several  signs  of  the    Zodiac. 

XVIII.  The  Sun,  Mars,  and  other  planets  in  the  several 

signs  of  the  Zodiac         ...  ...  ... 

XIX.  Planetary  Aspects 

XX.  Planets  in  the  Bhavas        ...             ...             ... 

XXI.  Planets  in  several  Vargas  ... 

XXII.  Miscellaneous  Yogas 

XXIII.  Malefic  Yogas 

XXIV.  Horoscopy  of  Women 
XXV.  Death 

XXVI.  Lost  Horoscopes...             ... 

XXVII.  Drekkana? 

XX  VI 1 1.  Conclusion 


i 

15 
24 

28 
40 


61 

80 

97 
114 
117 

126 

142 
149 
162 

164 

J68 

172 

183 
189 

iP4 
199 

202 
210 

217 
224 
237 
245 


VI  CONTENTS. 

APPENDIX.  PAGE. 

Method  of  rinding  Lagna  Sphutam          ...            ...  i 

Do             do      Local  Time  (by  Day)...            ...  ii 

Do             do              do           (at  Night)              ...  iii 
Table  showing  the  Oblique  Ascension  of  each  sign 

of  the  Zodiac    ...  iv 
Do                   do        from  any  one  sign 

to  any  other  sign  of  the  Zodiac     ...  vi 
Do                     the  Antardasa  periods  of  the 

Nakshatra  Dasas    ...  vii 

Do        the  Equation  of  Time  for  India    ...  viii 
Do         the  Time  of  the   Culmination  of  the 

Sun  and  the  Vernal  Equinox     ...  ix 

Do        the  Friends,  Enemies,  etc.,  of  Planets.  ix 

Do        the  Time  of  the  Culmination  of  Stars,  ix 


PUBLICATIONS 

OF   THE 

ARYAN  MISCELLANY  OFFICE. 


IN    ENGLISH. 


I.  The  Brihat  Samhita  of  Vamlia  Miliira. — A  cyclopx- 
dia  of  information  on  Natural  Astrology,  containing  inter- 
pretations of  over  i  ,000  phenomena  of  Nature  and  treating 
of  numerous    other    interesting    subjects : — Price    Rs.   5 
(India)  :  IDS.  (Foreign). 

II.  The  Brihat  Jataka  of  Varalui  Mihira. — A  complete 
system  of  Horoscopy  providing  for  the  solution  of  all  ques- 
tions of  Nativity  : — Price  Rs.  3  (India):  6s.  (Foreign). 

III.  Shatpanchasika  (with  Sanskrit  Text). — A  work  on 
Prasna  or  Horary  Astrology  by  Prithuyasas,  son  of  Varaha 
Mihira,   containing    solutions  of  a   number  of  important 
Horary  questions  : — Price  8  As.  (India)  :  is.  (Foreign). 

IV.  Jinendramala — An  exhaustive   work    on   Horary 
Astrology  by  Upendrachariar,  providing  for  the  solution  o^ 
all  Horary  questions  : — Price  Re.  i-8-o  (India) :  35. (Foreign) 

Apply  ivith  remittance  or  per  V.P.P,  to — 

The  Manager, 

The  Theosophist  Office,  Adyar,  Madras,  India. 

OR 
M.R.Ry.  N.  Yisvanatha  Aiyar, 

Aryan  Miscellany  Office,  Madura. 

OR 
M.R.Ry.  G.  Ramaohandra  Aiyar,  B.A., 

Aryan  Miscellany  Office,  Triplicate,  Madras 


INTRODUCTION. 


THERE  is  probably  not  one  subject  which  is  so  ill- 
understood,  which  so  many  people  pretend  toknow,and  on 
which  so  many  are  prepared  to  express  an  opinion,  as  the 
subject  of  Astrology.  The  Indian  proverb  truly  says  that 
there  is  no  man  who  is  not  a  bit  of  a  physician  and  an 
astrologer  ;  and  it  is  equally  true  that  there  is  no  subject 
which  is  so  ill-understood  as  these  two.  The  fact  is  that 
the  broad  medical  and  astrological  principles  are  so  many 
that  everybody  of  necessity  learns  a  few  of  these,  but 
experiences  a  difficulty  in  mastering  all  of  them. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  note  the  various  subjects 
with  which  astrology  is  confounded.  Persons  with  well- 
developed  intuitions  are  often  found  to  make  correct  pre- 
dictions of  events.  The  Yogis  are  persons  of  this  descrip- 
tion. Their  peculiar  knowledge  is  certainly  not  the 
result  of  any  study  of  astrological  works.  We  also  find 
another  class  of  men  who  imitate  these  men  and  also 
make  striking  statements.  Birmingham  gold  is  often 
taken  for  sterling  gold  ;  German  silver  for  pure  silver  ;  and 
we  have  a  variety  of  inferior  stones,  white,  red  and  green 
that  are  often  mistaken  for  diamonds,  rubies  and  emeralds 
The  world  is  full  of  this  dual  character  of  things.  Every 
department  of  true  knowledge  has  its  inferior  counterpart 
and  so  we  have  a  number  of  men  who,  possessing  no  oc- 
cult powers,  but  securing  the  help  of  a  few  elemental 
spirits,  practise  imposition  on  the  ignorant  public.  But  the 
world  is  not  without  a  touchstone  to  detect  the  hollowness 
of  their  pretensions  :  these  men  will  give  you  a  few  correct 
particulars  regarding  remote  past  events,  a  great  deal  of 
particulars  regarding  present  events,  one  or  two  particu- 
lars regarding  the  immediate  future,  and  no  particulars  at 


2  Introduction. 

all  about  the  distant  future.  I  have  known  these  men  and 
tested  the  truth  of  their  statements.  These  men  pretend 
to  be  astrologers.  Some  of  them  carry  no  books  at  all  and 
make  amazing  statements  touching  past  events  in  prose 
and  verse  in  an  extempore  sing-song  fashion  and  without 
the  least  effort,  even  though  the  questioner  is  a  perfect 
stranger  ;  while  others  shew  you  some  huge  antique  cadjan 
book  and  pretend  to  read  from  its  pages.  This  was  exact- 
ly the  way  in  which  Col.  Olcott's  questions  were  recently 
answered  by  the  Brahmin  astrologer  who  pretended  to  read 
from  the  pages  of  the  works  of  the  Great  Bheemakavi  (vide 
May,  1885,  issue  of  the  Theosophist}.  I  am  sure  that  nei- 
ther Col.  Olcott  nor  his  intelligent  friends  ever  had  a  look 
into  the  book  to  see  whether  what  was  read  out  was  really 
written  there,  and  if  so,  whether  the  writing  was  not  a 
fresh  one.  In  all  these  cases  the  astrologer,  if  he  is  one 
at  all,  doggedly  refuses  to  allow  others  to  look  into  his 
book  ;  for,  he  says,  he  is  not  permitted  by  the  book  deity 
to  do  so  !  There  is  a  more  wonderful  man  in  Pondicherry 
at  present.  He  pretends  to  read  from  the  works  of 
Nandikeswara.  Such  astrologers  are  making  vast  sums 
of  money.  The  statements  they  make  are  really  puzzling 
ones.  But  for  these  and  the  way  in  which  they  are  made, 
the  utter  want  of  preparation  and  the  like,  I  should  have 
been  inclined  to  discard  the  element  of  the  help  of  the 
elemental  spirits.  Let  those  who  would  object  to  this, 
examine  the  matter  and  then  pronounce  an  opinion. 

Nothing  can  be  more  funny  than  to  find  young  men 
especially,  taking  up  astrology  as  their  first  subject  of 
attack  in  their  public  utterances.  It  is  a  subject  to  which 
they  pay  little  or  no  attention  except  for  purposes  of  ridi- 
cule. To  all  your  questions,  how  do  you  prove  this  state- 
ment and  how  do  you  prove  that :  their  one  ready  reply  is 
that  their  common  sense  tells  them  so.  They  forget 
that  common  sense  is  a  sense  which  changes  in  its  nature 


Introduction.  3 

as  one  advances  in  his  study,  and  it  changes  so  much  that 
the  common  sense  of  one  age  is  different  from  the 
common  sense  of  another  age,  the  common  sense  of  one 
nation  or  of  one  individual  is  different  from  the  common 
sense  of  another  nation  or  of  another  individual.  Where 
proof  is  advanced  by  a  few,  it  is  equally  interesting  to  ex- 
amine it.  The  proof  is  that  such  and  such  astrologers 
made  such  and  such  predictions  and  that  the  predictions 
have  failed — and  ergo,  astrology  is  no  science  !  It  is  evi- 
dently taken  for  granted  that  the  astrologer  was  really 
learned  in  the  science,  and  that  there  were  not  those 
numerous  errors  of  data  to  mislead  him. 

Another  objection  to  the  science  is  that  astrologically 
the  fortunes  of  two  persons  born  at  the  same  moment  of 
time  but  in  the  opposite  quarters  of  the  globe,  must  bu 
the  same,  but  that  they  cannot  be  and  are  not  the  same. 
Here  is  an  ignorance  betrayed  regarding  the  elementary 
principles  of  the  science.  It  is  true  that  the  planetary 
positions  are  nearly  the  same  except  for  the  small  matter 
of  parallax.  But  it  is  not  the  planets  alone  that  go  to 
shape  one's  fortunes.  Time  of  birth,  which  is  represent- 
ed by  the  Lagna  or  the  rising  sign,  has  a  great  deal  to  do 
with  it.  In  other  words,  because  the  local  times  of  the 
two  places  are  different,  the  L/agnas  must  be  different ; 
for  when  the  aoth  degree  of  Leo,  for  instance,  is  in 
contact  with  the  horizon  here,  the  aoth  degree  of  Aquaries 
will  be  in  contact  with  the  horizon  of  our  just  antipodes  at 
the  same  moment.  Our  rising  sign  is  their  setting  sign, 
and  our  setting  sign  is  their  rising  sign;  so  that  a 
difference  of  longitude  gives  a  difference  of  local  time 
and  consequently  a  difference  of  Lagna.  But  suppose 
the  places  to  have  the  same  longitude.  Take  two 
places  for  instance  on  the  same  meridian  and  therefore 
due  north  and  south  of  each  other.  Now  the  question  is 
whether  the  Lagua  is  the  same  for  both  the  places.  No, 


4  Introduction- 

The  Lagna  is  a  point  in  the  ecliptic  which  is  inclined  to 
the  equator.  The  planes  of  the  horizon  of  the  two  places 
are  different  and  they  cut  different  parts  of  the  ecliptic. 
It  therefore  follows  that  a  difference  of  latitude  gives  a 
difference  in  the  Lagna.  So  that  places  with  a  differ- 
ence of  either  longitude  or  latitude  or  with  both  cannot 
have  the  same  Lagna  at  the  same  time.  That  Lagna  or 
mere  time  or  space,  irrespective  of  the  planets,  has  a 
great  deal  to  do  with  shaping  the  fortunes  of  a  native  or 
Jataki  will  be  a  new  revelation  to  most  people-  We  will 
come  to  this  subject  presently.  A  horoscopic  diagram  or 
figure  of  the  heavens  represents  both  local  time  or  Lagna 
and  planetary  positions. 

What  then  is  Astrology  or  Horoscopy  ?  What  is  its 
nature  and  what  its  bounds?  Here  is  the  author's  defini- 
tion of  horoscopy  — 


Horoscopy  is  stated  to  be  the  science  of  Ahoratri  or 
the  science  of  day  and  night  —  these  being  the  broadest 
visible  divisions  of  time—  multiples  of  which  give  weeks, 
months,  years,  &c.,  and  divisions  of  which  give  hours, 
minutes,  seconds>  &c.  The  first  letter  A,  and  the  last 
letter  tri,  having  been  dropped,  the  term  has  assumed 
the  shape  of  hora,  and  the  author  says  that  hora  Shastra 
treats  of  the  effects  of  the  good  and  bad  deeds  of  an  indi- 
vidual in  his  previous  birth  ;  so  that  the  moment  a  per- 
son is  born,  it  becomes  his  lot  to  enjoy  and  suffer  certain 
pleasures  and  pains  for  his  past  good  and  bad  deeds 
—  seeds  cast  into  the  cosmic  region  in  one  birth  begin 
to  bear  sweet  and  sour  fruits  in  another  birth  according 
to  their  quality, 


Introduction.  5 

In  this  connection  we  may  say  a  few  words  touching 
the  long  disputed  question  of  Fatalism  versus  Free-will. 
Persons  of  the  former  school  hold  that  even  the  minutest 
events  of  one's  life  are  pre-ordained,  and  that  man  is  com- 
pletely a  puppet  in  the  hands  of  certain  higher  agencies. 
This  error  has  evidently  been  the  result  of  the  obser- 
vation of  a  number  of  well  projected  efforts  in  particular 
directions  having  been  thoroughly  discomfited.  Again, 
men  of  the  other  school  hold  that  man  is  a  free  agent, 
and  that  there  is  nothing  impracticable  for  him  if  only 
proper  means  are  employed  for  the  purpose.  This  error 
again  has  been  the  result  of  the  observation  of  even  ill 
projected  efforts  in  particular  directions,  proving  highly 
successful— the  failures,  if  any,  being  accounted  for 
by  the  insufficiency  of  the  means  employed.  In  the 
one  case  man  becomes  an  irresponsible  agent  ;  and  in  the 
other  he  not  only  bootlessly  grieves  over  his  failures, 
but  repeats  his  attempts,  thus  putting  himself  to  trouble, 
expense  and  vexation  only  to  fail  again.  Now,  as  regards 
the  former  position,  it  is  held  that  man's  present  deeds 
are  all  the  effects  of  his  previous  deeds.  As  free  agency 
of  any  sort  is  discarded  from  the  question,  it  would  follow 
that  these  previous  deeds  are  the  effects  of  deeds  still 
more  previous,  and  so  on,  ad  tttfinitum,  or  till  we  are 
brought  to  a  state  of  cosmic  evolution  when  differences 
of  states  and  conditions  were  infused  into  human  souls 
by  the  Creator.  Such  a  condition  of  irresponsibility  is 
opposed  to  reason,  opposed  to  progress,  and  equally 
opposed  to  divine  and  human  law.  It  is  a  very  pernicious 
doctrine  in  the  extreme. 

As  regards  the  latter  view,  if  man  can  wholly  shape 
his  own  fortunes,  how  are  we  to  account  for  the  pheno- 
mena of  suffering  virtue  and  the  enjoying  vice  in  certain 
cases — for  the  former  reaping  no  rewards  and  the  latter 
escaping  punishment.  A  satisfactory  explanation  would 


6  Introduction, 

point  to  the  former  as  being  the  effects  of  previous  karmd, 
and  the  latter  as  deeds  for  which  iran   will  both  suffer 
and  enjoy  in  his  next  life.    Taking  entire  human  life  into 
consideration,  onr  own  opinion   is  that   man  is    both    a 
slave  of  the  effects  of  his  past  deeds  and  is  a  free-agent  as 
regards  fresh  independent  deeds — deeds  which  are  in  no 
way  directed  to  thwart,  to  arrest,  to  alter  or  in  any  way  to 
modify  or  remould   the  effects    of  his  past    karma-     But 
if  he  wishes  to  move    along  with  the  current,  he  may  do 
so,   and   the  course   will   become    more    easy  and    more 
smooth.     This  view  will    account  for    three  things:   (1), 
the  many  apparently  unaccountable  failures   of  attempts 
even  when  the  means  employed  have  been    good  ;   (2), 
the  easy  success  that  has  attended  many  an  effort  when  the 
means  employed  were  even  weak  ;  (3),  the  success  which 
in  certain  cases  appears  proportionate  to  labour.     In  the 
first  case,  the  attempt  was  one  aimed  at  moving   against 
the  current    of  fate  ;  in  the     second  case    it  was  one   of 
moving  down  with  the  current,  and  in  the  third  case  it 
was  motion  on  still  water,  where   and   where  alone  free 
human  agency  can  display  itself. 

Having  premised  so  much,  we  may  now  proceed  a 
step  further  and  state  that  where  the  current  is  a  weak 
one  running  with  the  course  of  a  L,eena,  it  might  be 
opposed,  and  such  opposition  may  be  either  direct  or 
oblique  according  to  the  fitness  aud  strength  of  the 
means  employed,  and  that  the  task  would  become  a  diffi- 
cult one»  if  the  course  to  be  resisted  should  flow  with 
the  course  of  a  Tigris.  The  question  is  purely  a  question 
of  karmic  dynamics— effects  of  past  karma  as  opposed  to 
present  karma.  To  oppose  even  an  opposible  force,  one 
must  first  possess  a  knowledge  of  its  strength  and 
direction  of  action,  and  secondly,  a  knowlege  of  the  proper 
means  to  be  employed  for  the  purpose.  The  former 
knowledge  is  supplied  to  man  by  astrology,  and  the  latter 


Introduction.  » 

by  such  works  as  the  Karmavipaka  Gratidha.  The  meaus 
prescribed  in    the  latter   consist  of  gifts,    of  Japa  psychic 
training   or   development)   and   certain   fire   'ceremonies 
having  an  occult  significance.     It  follows  where  the  cur- 
rent   is    irresistible,    the  attempt  to   oppose  it   becomes 
futile.     How  can  a  person  ever  hope  to  win   success  in   a 
field  when  he  is  ignorant  of  the  direction  of  attack  as  well 
as  the  strength  of  his  enemy.    Astrology  not  only  points 
out  to  him  his    enemies   but  his   friends  as   well,    whose 
help  he  might  seek   and  obtain.     By    pointing  out  fields 
where  there  are  friends  and  fields,  where  there   are  foes, 
astrology   indirectly    points    out   to   him   neutral    fields 
where  man's  free  agency   has  its  full  scope  of  action  and 
where  success  is  proportionate  to  labour. 

The  next  important  question  for  consideration  is  the 
examination   of  the   connection,    if  any,    between    the 
planets  and   human   fortunes  :  where   man  suffers    and 
enjoys  the   fruits   of  his  past  karma,   the  question   asked 
is  what  part  the  planets  play   in  such   human  suffering 
and  enjoyment.     Here  again  believers  in   astrology  as  a 
science  are  divided    into  two    schools.     The   one    admit 
active  agency  for  the  planets,  and  the  other,  denying  it, 
state  that  the  planets  blindly  and  mechanically    indicate 
the  current  of  human  destinies.  In  support  of  the  latter 
view,  it  is  stated  that  if  human  suffering  and  enjoyment 
are  directly  traceable  to  man's   previous  karma,  then,  to 
admit  active    agency   on    the  part   of  the    planets,    be- 
comes not  only  superfluous,  but  inconsistent  :  if  a    man 
loses  his  son,  it    is   because,  they    say,    he  suffers  for  his 
karma,    which    might  consist   in    his    having  caused    a 
similar  affliction  to  somebody  in  his  previous  birth,  and  not 
because  Mars  occupied  the  5th  house  from  the   ascendant 
or  Lagna   at  the    moment  of  birth,  and    that    therefore 
the  planetary  positions  only    indicate  and    do   not   bring 
about  human  suffering  or  enjoyment.     These  people  from 
a  human  point  of  view  cannot   conceive   the   possibility 


8  Introduction. 

of  more  causes  than  one  for  an  event— Mcli  cause  acting 
independently  and  with  full  force.  Hindu  literature  is  full 
of  events,  each  of  which  is  the  immediate  effect  of  a  num- 
ber of  causes.  This  peculiar  combination  of  causes,  quite 
incomprehensible  to  us,  is  a  feature  which  distinguishes 
divine  deeds  from  human  deeds.  We  will  quote  an  ins- 
tance or  two.  Ganga  was  cursed  to  pass  through  a  human 
incarnation  ;  the  Ashta  (eight)  Vastis  brought  on  them- 
selves a  similar  curse — of  the  eight  Vasus  seven  were 
allowed  to  return  to  Swarga  immediately  after  birth  ; 
Raja  Santanu  goes  out  on  a  hunting  excursion,  marries 
Ganga,  whom  he  finds  on  the  banks  of  the  Ganges,  on 
condition  of  her  being  allowed  to  quit  him  the  moment 
he  opposes  her  own  mode  of  disposing  of  the  issue  of  their 
•union.  Eight  children  are  born  in  all.  The  mother 
throws  the  first  seven  of  them  into  the  Ganges  ;  the 
King  puts  up  with  this  for  the  love  of  the  lady.  He  can 
bear  no  more  inhuman  work  of  the  sort  and  so  he  re- 
sists ;  Ganga  quits  her  lord  leaving  the  babe — the  future 
Bheeshma  of  the  Mahabharat.  Again,  King  Dasaratha 
goes  out  to  hunt  and  enters  a  dense  forest ;  hearing 
some  gurgling  sound  in  his  neighbourhood,  and  mis- 
taking it  to  be  that  of  a  wild  elephant  in  the  act  of  drink- 
ing water,  the  king  discharges  his  arrow  in  its  direction 
and  kills  a  lad  who  was  dipping  his  bowl  into  the  waters 
of  the  stream  to  carry  it  to  his  aged  parents  at  some  dis- 
tance. The  cries  of  the  dying  lad  brought  home  to  the 
king  his  error,  and  the  next  moment  the  king  himself 
proceeds  to  the  lad's  father  and  entreats  pardon.  This 
venerable  old  man  expires  on  the  spot  pronouncing 
a  curse  on  the  king— rather  reading  the  king's  fate  that 
in  his  old  age  he  shall  die  a  similar  death  from  grief  on 
account  of  his  son's  separation.  In  the  meanwhile  Vishnu 
himself  draws  on  his  own  head  the  curse  of  a 
human  incarnation,  attended  with  much  suffering 
from  separation  from  wife,  from  the  sage  Bhrigu, 


Introduction. 

whose  wife  he  killed  when  she  refused  to  deliver  up  to 
his  wrath  an  Asura  who  had  sought  her  protection.  The 
Devas  suffering  much  from  Ravana  and  ins  giant  hosts 
proceed  to  Vishnu  and  entreat  relief.  As  Brahma  had 
granted  to  Ravana  the  boon  of  exemption  from 
death  from  all  except  from  men  and  monkeys,  and  as 
Dasaratha  had  prayed  to  Vishnu  for  the  blessing  of  a  son, 
Vishnu  enters  on  his  human  incarnation  as  Rama,  the 
son  of  Dasaratha.  From  family  dissensions  he  quits 
his  kingdom  and  enters  the  forest  of  Dandaka  with  his 
bride.  Grieved  at  his  son's  separation,  Dasaratha  dies. 
Ravana  carries  away  Seeta  and  Rama  is  grieved  at  her 
separation.  He  proceeds  to  L,anka,  slays  his  enemy  and 
recovers  his  wife. 

Most  of  the  eminent  astronomers  of  the  Hast  and 
West  believed  in  a  double  Sun,  a  double  Moon,  Mars  and 
other  planets— the  one  is  the  Sthula  or  the  physical  one 
and  the  other  is  the  Sukshma  or  the  astral  one.  The  diffi- 
culty in  conceiving  active  agency  as  possessed  by  the  pla- 
nets when  viewed  in  the  light  of  huge  inert  balls,  will  be 
removed  when  we  suppose  that  each  planet  possesses  a 
soul.  Besides,  there  is  nothing  repugnant  to  our  mind  in 
the  idea  that  the  planets  together  form  a  body  of  executive 
officers  charged  with  the  duty  of  rewarding  and  punish- 
ing humanity  for  their  past  karma  by  the  command  of  the 
Most  High,  who  at  the  same  time  allows  each  man  the 
chance  to  improve  his  own  condition  by  making  him  a  free 
agent  in  many  matters.  A  man  is  whipped  for  theft  by  the 
order  of  the  Magistrate.  He  suffers  for  his  karma — the 
deed  of  theft.  But  the  whipping  officer  is  an  active  agent. 
Take  another  instance  :  A  man  does  apiece  of  valuable 
service  to  the  state ;  the  sovereign  commands  a  local 
officer  to  invest  the  person  with  the  order  of  knighthood  ; 
the  officer  obeys  ;  the  officer  no  doubt  is  an  active  agent 
though  the  honor  was  the  immediate  effect  of  the  person's 
services.  We  therefore  hold  that  planets  not  only  indicate 
2 


fO  Introduction. 

human  destinies,  but  bring  about  such  destinies.  The 
world  is  a  mixed  field  of  honor,  of  punishment  and  of 
probation.  And  the  planets  are  the  rewarding  and  chas- 
tising officers,  and  meddle  in  no  way  when  man  exercises 
his  free  will  within  its  own  sphere. 

The  same  idea  might  be  represented  in  another  way  : 
planetary  activity  is  the  total  activity  of  a  number  of  forces, 
some  for  good  and  some  for  evil,  and  while  a  man's 
karma  leads  him  into  the  one  force  or  the  other,  there  are 
other  forces  by  a  knowledge  of  which  man  may  bene- 
fit himself,  though  it  may  not  be  his  lot  to  be  drawn  into 
any  of  them  by  his  past  karma.  If  this  were  not  the  cor- 
rect view  of  the  part  played  by  the  planets,  a  large  portion 
of  the  science  of  astrology,  in  which  man  is  advised  to 
avail  himself  of  such  and  such  planetary  positions  for  par- 
ticular purposes,  would  become  useless.  The  planets 
therefore  can  be  made  to  do  more  than  the  work  of  jailors 
and  rewarding  officers.  For  instance,  in  the  fourth  chap- 
ter (Brihat  Jataka)  which  treats  of  Nisheka  (conception) 
a  man  is  advised  to  avail  himself  of  particular  planetary 
positions  if  he  desires  an  excellent  issue  :  Parasara,  who 
was  a  great  astronomer  and  astrologer,  finding  that  such 
an  hour  for  Nisheka  had  approached,  joined  a  boat-man's 
daughter  in  an  island  on  the  Jumna  and  the  issue  was  the 
great  Vedavyasa.  A  Brahmin  astrologer  under  similar 
circumstances  joined  a  potter's  daughter,  and  the  issue  was 
the  great  Salivahana. 

That  man  is  not  altogether  a  free  agent  is  an  idea 
caught  by  Shakespeare  in  one  of  his  well  known  passages 
in  "  As  You  Like  It." 

"  All  the  world  is  a  stage, 
And  all  the  men  and  women  merely  players  ; 
They  have  their  exits  and  their  entrances, 
And  one  man  in  his  time  plays  many  parts, 
H}s  acts  being  seven  ages," 


Introduction.  1 1 

Again,  while  the  heavens  form  the  macrocosm,  man 
is  the  microcosm.  In  other  words,  each  man  is  a  little 
world  exactly  representing  the  Universe.  While  all 
seems  quiet  without,  there  is  an  active  world  within 
Such  a  world  is  visible  to  the  inner  sight  of  a  Yogi-  Oc- 
cult science  treating  of  this  subject  says  :— 


If  the  Prauavayu  (vital  air)  can  be  taken  to  the 
Sushmnanadi,  eight  sorts  of  music  will  be  heard,  and  fire, 
lightning,  stars,  the  moon  and  the  sun  will  become  visi. 
ble.  Again,  in  Chapter  IV,  already  referred  to,  Varaha 
Mihira  says  that  menstrual  discharges  occur  in  women 
when  Mars  and  the  Moon  approach  each  other.  In  con- 
nection with  this  subject  the  author  of  Saravali  says  as 
follows  :  — 


"  The  Moon  is  water  and  Mars  is  fire  ;  bile  is  the 
result  of  a  mixture  of  fire  and  water,  and  when  bile  mixes 
with  the  blood,  menses  appear  in  women/' 

So  that  with  the  change  that  is  going  on  without, 
there  is  a  change  going  on  within,  and  every  element  or 
bit  of  man's  physical  body  has  its  representative  in  the 
heavens.  Such  being  the  case,  there  is  a  subtle  connec- 
tion, imperceptible  because  subtle,  between  the  conditions 
of  the  planets  and  the  stars  above  and  those  of  man  below. 

We  shall  now  say  a  few  words  touching  the  causes  of 
failure  of  astrological  predictions  ;  the  most  important  of 
these  we  will  take  up  first. 


1  2  Introduction. 

Astrology  rests  on  astronomy.  The  latter  science  was 
probably  in  a  good  condition  at  the  time  of  Vikramarka. 
The  tables  for  the  calculation  of  the  places  of  the  planets 
which  were  then  framed  or  then  in  use,  were  all  suited  to 
the  time.  Owing  probably  to  the  wear  and  tear  of  the 
several  working  parts  of  the  whole  machinery  of  the  Solar 
system,  the  tables  of  one  age  are  unsuited  to  another  age. 
To  this  truth  the  ancient  Hindu  astronomers  were  keenly 
alive.  They  have  accordingly  laid  down  this  broad  rule 
for  the  guidance  of  the  future  astronomers. 


Since  error  in  calculation  is  as  sinful  as  the  murder  of 
a  Brahmin,  the  correct  places  of  the  planets  shall  be  ascer- 
tained by  daily  meridian  observations. 

And  this  cannot  be  done  without  an  Observatory.  Ob- 
servatories of  some  sort  did  exist  in  this  land  ;  but  owing 
to  foreign  invasions  and  the  want  of  encouragement  on  the 
part  of  rulers,  the  science  has  ceased  to  progress,  and  the 
former  tables  for  want  of  corrections  have  become  useless. 
The  calendars  therefore  prepared  by  the  native  astrologers 
do  not  give  the  true  places  of  the  planets.  The  error  has 
been  going  on  for  the  last  1000  years. 

The  nautical  almanacs  prepared  in  Europe  and  Ame- 
rica give  very  correct  positions  of  the  planets  ;  and  Messrs. 
Bapu  Deva  Sastry  of  Benares,  Lakshrnana  Chatrai  of 
Poona,  Ragunatha  Chariar  of  Madras,  and  Tencateswara 
Deekshitar  and  Sundareswara  Srouty  of  Cornbaconutn 
have  started  almanacs  basing  their  calculation  on  the  cor- 
rect modern  tables.  These  tables  enable  us  to  ascertain 
correctly  the  places  of  the  planets  from  the  Vernal  Equi-* 
nox,  one  of  the  two  points  where  the  ecliptic  cuts  the 
equator.  This  point  is  the  Western  first  point  of  Aries. 


introduction.  1* 

It  has  a  retrograde  motion  at  the  rate  of  about  50"  a  year. 
But  the  Hindu  first  point  of  Aries  is  the  fixed  star  Revati 
(the  Yogatara  of  the  group)  which  is  stated  to  be  on  the 
ecliptic.  This  star  is  at  present  about  20°  to  the  East  of 
the  Vernal  Equinox.  Planetary  places  from  this  star  are 
known  as  the  Nirayana  Sphutam,  and  places  from  the 
Vernal  Equinox  are  known  as  the  Say ana  Sphutam.  The 
little  bit  of  increasing  space  between  the  two  points  is 
known  as  Ayanamsa-  Now  Hindu  astrology  rests  on  the 
Nirayaua  Sphutam  of  the  planets,  and  modern  tables  give 
us  the  correct  Sayaua  Sphutam  ;  so  that,  if  the  length  of 
the  Ayanamsa  is  correctly  known,  it  may  be  subtracted 
from  the  Sayana  Sphutam,  and  the  remainder  will  be  the 
Nirayana  Sphutam  required.  But  the  exact  length  of  the 
Ayauamsa  is  not  known,  and  it  cannot  be  ascertained  by 
direct  observation,  because  the  star  Revati  has  disappeared: 
I  have  treated  of  this  subject  at  some  length  in  the  April 
(1883)  issue  of  the  Theosophist.  The  -several  almanac 
publishers  already  referred  to  have  arbitrarily  assumed 
different  lengths  of  the  Ayanamsa,  evidently  to  suit  their 
own  convenience.  These  lengths  of  the  Ayanamsa  on  the 
ist  January  1883  are  : — 

ott 

(1)  Bombay            Almanac  ...  18  14  20 

(2)  Madras             j  d  22  2  3S 

(3)  Combaconum  j 

(4)  Benares               do  ...  21  58  29 

(5)  Vakhya                do  ...  22  41  44 

(6)  Siddhanta           do  ...  20  46  15 

I  have  discovered  the  true  length  to  range  between 
20°  23' 8"  and  20°  25  22"  on  the  ist  January  1883.  By 
adopting  the  mean,  namely,  20°  24' 15"  the  maximum 
amount  of  error  will  only  be  i'  7".  Now  the  difference 
between  the  correct  Ayanamsa  and  the  various  Ayanamsas 
above  given  will  be  seen  from  the  following :  — 


Introduction* 


(1)  Bombay 

(2)  Madras  ) 

(3)  Combaconum  ) 

(4)  Benares 

(5)  Vakhya 

(6)  Siddbanta 


—  2    9 
+  1  38 

+  1  34 

+  2  17 
+  0  22 


24 

14 

29 

0 


To  express  tbe  same  in  otber  words.  Tbe  Ayanamsa 
error  as  it  affects  the  planetary  positions  in  point  of  time 
in  tbe  first' four  almanacs  will  be  found  to  be  as  follows  : — 


Planets. 

Bombay 
(before) 

Madras  and 
Combaconum 
(after) 

Benares 
(after) 

day.      hour. 

day.      hour. 

day.      hour. 

Sun     

2           5 

1          16 

1         14 

Moon  

0           4 

0            3 

0           3 

Mars   ...         ... 

4           3 

3            3 

3          0 

Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 

0         13 

26           0 
1            9 

0           10 
19           17 

1            0 

0        9£ 
18         21 
0        23 

Saturn 

04-         16 

48          23 

46        20 

Moon's    node... 

40         21 

31            0 

29         16 

So- that  it  is  evident  that  horoscopes  constructed  on 
the  planetary  positions  as  found  in  the  existing  almanacs 
are  wrong. 

Again,in  the  construction  of  horoscopes,  the  following 
wrong  tables  showing  the  Rasimana  or  time  of  oblique 
ascension  of  the  Zodiacal  signs  above  the  horizon  is 
adopted  nearly  throughout  the  land  by  a  great  majority 
of  ignorant  astrologers :— 


Ghatikas. 

Ghatikas. 

Aries 

H 

Libra 

5 

Taurus 

4? 

Scorpio 

51 

Gemini 

•H 

Sagittary 

»1 

Cancer 

5* 

Capricorn     ... 

5| 

trCO 

&f 

Aquarius 

if 

Virgo 

5 

Pisces 

4    , 

Introduction*  15 

The  reader  is  referred  to  the  Appendix  for  a  correct 
table  for  all  the  places  of  India. 

A  third  cause  of  failure  is  an  ignorance  of  the  local 
time.  The  present  days  are  days  of  clocks  and  watches, 
and  these  are  luxuries  confined  to  our  towns  and  do  not 
extend  to  our  villages.  Besides,  these  clocks  and  watches 
are  rarely  made  to  show  the  local  time.  In  most  of  the 
places  of  Southern  India,  the  clock  shows  the  Madras 
time,  and  where  there  are  no  clocks  the  time  is  ascer- 
tained by  a  rough  calculation  applied  to  the  length  of  a 
man's  shadow.  The  corrections  due  to  the  latitude  of 
the  place  and  to  the  position  of  the  sun  on  the  ecliptic 
are  omitted.  At  night,  if  the  sky  should  happen  to  be 
clear,  the  transist  of  particular  constellations  over  the 
meridian  is  observed,  and  by  the  application  of  a  rough 
table  beginning  with. 


"  When  Sravana  crosses  the  meridian,  Aries  has 
risen  by  zf  Ghatikas,"  an  attempt  is  made  to  ascertain 
the  local  time.  In  the  first  place  the  table  is  a  rough 
one,  and  in  the  second  place  it  applies  to  the  time  when 
the  Yogatara  or  chief  star  of  the  group  crosses  the 
meridian.  The  table  therefore  becomes  useless  for  times 
lying  between  the  transit  of  the  Yogatra  of  one  group 
and  that  of  the  Yogatra  of  the  next  group.  Besides, 
most  men  are  ignorant  not  only  of  the  Yogatara  but  of 
the  exact  position  of  the  meridian  ;  and  turning  towards 
the  star  which  might  be  to  east  or  west  of  the  meridian, 
they  fancy  that  it  is  just  about  to  make  the  transit.  If 
the  night  happens  to  be  a  cloudy  one,  the  time  is  purely 
one  of  guess  work.  So  many  errors  must,  of  necessity, 
lead  often  to  an  error  in  the  Lagna  ;  and  when  this 
occurs,  it  upsets  the  whole  thing.  Add  to  this  the  errors 
of  the  calendar  relating  to  the  places  of  the  planets.  Cent 


16  Introduction. 

per  cent,  of  the  horoscopes  of  the  present  day  are  there- 
fore wrong.  It  is  a  horoscope  of  this  type  that  is  put 
into  the  hands  of  a  person  who  calls  himself  an  astro- 
loger. In  a  great  number  of  cases,  Indian  astrologers 
are  poor  men  who  have  betaken  themselves  to  the  study 
of  the  science  as  a  means  of  livelihood.  The  public 
would  pay  them  only  if  they  would  predict  some  good 
fortune  ;  if  he  correctly  predicts  an  evil,  he  is  not  only 
not  paid  anything,  but  is  set  down  for  a  sorcerer,  whom 
it  would  not  be  safe  to  approach.  Thus  the  astrologer 
is  induced  to  conceal  any  unpleasant  truths' which  he 
might  happen  to  know,  and  after  this  the  complaint  is 
that  the  predictions  of  such  and  such  astrologers  have 
failed  !  For  want  of  encouragement,  the  astrologer  pays 
little  attention  to  the  study  of  his  subject  and  often  has 
recourse  to  the  help  of  the  black  art  as  already  des- 
cribed. 

We  shall  now  say  "a  few  words  regarding  a  parti- 
cular branch  of  the  science,  known  as  Prasna  or  Arudha 
Shastra,  horary  astrology.  This  differs  from  horoscopy 
or  nativities  in  this  respect,  viz.,  while  the  latter  rests 
on  the  motions  of  the  visible  planets  round  the  Sun,  the 
former  rests  mainly  on  the  motions  of  certain  invisible 
planets  which  are  supposed  to  move  round  the  horizon. 
Their  laws  of  motion  are  exceedingly  simple. 
These  planets,  which  are  8  in  number,  move  in 
the  following  order :  the  Sun,  Mars,  Jupiter, 
Mercury,  Venus,  Saturn,  the  Moon  and  Rahu,  at  the 
distance  of  a  sign  and  a  half,  or  45°  from  one 
another  and  take  one  full  day  or  24  hours  to  go  round 
the  horizon — the  Sun  being  at  the  first  point  of  Aries 
every  day  at  sunrise,  the  horizon  being  their  ecliptic  and 
divided  into  12  equal  parts,  each  part  being  known  as  a 
sign,  and  Taurus,  Leo,  Scorpio  and  Aqarius  being  res- 
pectively the  due  eastern,  southern,  western  and  northern 


Introduction.  ]  7 

heavens  above.  The  astrologer  forms  as  it  were  the  sun, 
round  whom  the  planets  revolve.  The  direction  of  (sign 
occupied  by)  the  querent  is  noted  down,  as  well  as  the 
position  of  the  invisible  planets  at  the  time.  We  cannot 
enter  into  the  details  of  the  process  of  calculation  here. 
The  astrologer  proceeds  to  discover  the  matter  of  question 
and  then  makes  his  predictions  with  the  help  of  his 
books.  In  this,  he  is  assisted  by  another  department  of 
astrology  known  as  Angavidya  or  Cheshta  Sastra  which 
rests  on  the  motions  of  human  limbs,  casual  words  and  the 
like.  Angavidya  rests  on  the  theory  that  an  All-pervad- 
ing Intelligence  is  pointing  out  to  the  astrologer  (who  is 
otherwise  unable  to  know  them)  the  minute  events  of  life 
in  a  hundred  ways.  (Vide  Chapter  51  of  Varaha  Mihira's 
Brihat  Sarnhita.) 

Horoscopy  differs  from  horary  astrology  in  another 
important  point  :  while  the  former  enables  one  to  predict 
even  the  distant  events  of  life,  the  latter  refers  only 
to  events  of  the  immediate  future,  and  while  the  one 
deals  with  events  of  considerable  importance,  the  other 
deals  mainly  with  events  comparatively  insignificant, 
such,  for  instance,  as  the  sort  of  meal  which  one 
would  take  in  the  course  of  a  day,  the  direction  of 
his  seat  and  the  like.  In  such  cases  the  astro- 
loger generally  writes  out  his  answers  in  a  bit  of  paper 
and  folds  it  up  asking  the  questioner  to  look  into  it  after 
the  event,  for,  the  course  of  such  minor  events  of  life  can 
be  easily  altered  by  a  previous  knowledge.  These  events 
of  life  are  the  immediate  effects  of  a  set  of  circum- 
stances in  which  a  person  has  just  placed  himself,  the 
natural  immediate  effects  of  which  form  matters  for  the 
consideration  of  horary  astrology,  and  do  not  come  within 
the  scope  of  horoscopy.  After  a  person  has  begun  to  apply 
his  axe  to  a  tree,  it  may  not  be  difficult  to  predict  the  direc- 
tion of  its  fall,  but  not  before.  It  would  therefore  be 
wrong  to  conclude  from  these  minor  predictions  of  horary 
3 


18  Introduction. 

astrology  that  the  minutest  events  of  one's    life   are  pre- 
ordained and  that  man  has  no  control  over  them. 

It  only  remains  to  say  a  few  words  about  certain  books 
known  as  Nadigranthams.  These  purport  to  contain  a 
brief  account  of  the  lives  of  all  mankind.  It  would  ap- 
pear on  a  superficial  consideration  of  the  subject  that  such 
books  cannot  at  all  exist.  That  they  exist  is  *  fact  and 
the  question  therefore  is  how  came  they  to  exist—  hv.w  were 
they  prepared  ? 

The  planets  occupy  particular  places  on  the  ecliptic  at 
particular  points  of  time.  Every  moment  their  positions 
are  changing.  The  question  then  is  in  what  period  of 
time  the  planets  return  to  their  former  positions.  This  is  a 
question  of  Arithmetic,  a  question  of  the  Least  Common 
Multiple  of  7  or  8  numbers.  These  numbers  are  the 
siderial  periods  of  Mercury,  Venus,  Earth,  Mars,  Jupiter 
and  Saturn  and  of  the  Moon,  m'z., 

Mercury  ...  87-9693     days. 

Tenus  ...  224-7008 

Earth  ...  365-2564 

Mars  ...  686-9795 

Jupiter  ...  4332-5848 

Saturn  10759-22000 

Moon  ...        27  days.  7  hrs.  45  m.  11*  5  s. 

Now  the  L-  C.  M.  of  the  above  numbers  is  the  Kalpaof 
the  Hindu  Astronomy  which  is  4,320,000,000  siderial  years. 
After  which  the  planets  all  return  to  the  first  point  of  Aries 
at  the  horizon  of  Lanka — a  place  on  the  equator  whose 
longitude  is  76  E.  from  Greenwich.  A  Kalpa  consists 
of  1000  Chaturyugas.  A  Chaturyuga  consists  of  4320000 
siderial  years,  of  which  Kaliyuga  consists  of  432000  side- 
rial  years. 

Dwapara  yuga          432000    x    2    =    80- 1-000    years. 
Tretayuga   ...  432000    x    3    =    1296000      „ 

Krita  yuga  ...  432000    x    4    =    1728000      „ 


Introduction  19 

A  Kalpa  forms  Brahma's  day,  at  the  end  of  which 
the  Mahapralaya  commences.  Again,  the  number  of 
Rasi  Chakrams  or  the  Zodiacal  representations  of  the 
positions  of  the  planets  is  also  limited.  How  ?  Suppose 
there  was  only  one  planet,  say,  the  Sun.  He  might 
occupy  any  one  of  the  12  houses  ;  so  might  Mars  and  each 
of  the  other  planets.  The  12  places  of  the  Sun  combined 
with  the  12  places  of  Mars  will  give  us  122  or  144  different 
places  for  the  Sun  and  Mars.  These  combined  with  the 
12  places  of  Jupiter  will  give  123xl2  or  12s  or  1728 
places  for  the  three  planets,  the  Sun,  Mars  and  Jupiter. 
Similarly  4  planets  will  give  124  positions  and  5  planets 
will  give  125  positions,  and  so  on.  Now  horoscopy  deals 
with  the  positions  of  the  five  planets  Mercury,  Venus, 
Mars,  Jupiter  and  Saturn,  as  well  as  the  Sun,  the  Moon 
and  Rahu  (Moon's  ascending  node).  *  Of  these  8  planets, 
all,  excepting  the  inferior  planets,  Mercury  and  Venus, 
will  give  us  12°  positions.  Now  the  greatest  elongation 
of  Mercury  from  the  sun  is  about  29°,  and  that  of  Venus 
is  about 47°  ;  so  that  when  the  Sun  occupies  a  particular 
sign,  Mercury  will  occupy  either  that  sign  or  the  sign 
next  after  it  or  next  before  it  ;  similarly  Venus  will  be 
either  in  the  house  occupied  by  the  Sun  or  in  one  of  the 
two  signs  next  after  it  or  next  before  it-  In  other  words, 
the  number  already  obtained  will  have  to  be  increased 
threefold  on  account  of  Mercury  and  fivefold  on  account 
of  Venus.  The  number  then  is  126x3x5.  Combine  with 
this  the  12L,agnas.  The  total  number  of  Rasi  Chakrams 
therefore  is  12*  x  3  x  5  x  12  =  12 ^  x  15  =  537477120.  So  that 
while  the  limit  of  time  is  4320000000  siderial  years,  the 
limit  of  Rasi  Chakrams  during  that  period  is  537477120. 
These  figures  have  been  stated  simply  with  the  object  of 
dispelling  certain  wrong  notions  that  the  number  of 
horoscopic  Rasi  Chakrams  is  infinite  and  that  the  changes 

*  Uranus,  Neptune  and  other  telescopic   planets   are    not  supposed  to 
exerciseany  appreciable  influence  over  human  affairs. 


20  Introduction. 

go  on  for  an  infinite  period  of  time.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
would  be  wrong  to  suppose  that  the  scope  of  a  Nadigran- 
tham  extends  to  the  period  of  a  Kalpa  or  that  it  treats  of 
so  many  chakrams.  The  chakrams  themselves  cannot  be 
so  many  in  reality,  the  number  given  above  expresses  the 
possible  number  of  positions  in  which  the  planets  can 
be  conceived  to  be  placed  in  the  12  signs  of  the  Zodiac  alge- 
braically. But  they  cannot  assume  all  these  positions,  for 
this  simple  reason,  that  they  have  motions  of  their  own 
and  can  only  come  to  particular  positions  subject  to  such 
motions.  Again,  of  537477  J  20  horoscopic  Rasi  Chakrams, 
reduced,  a?  just  pointed  out,  a  very  large  number  refers  to 
animals  and  plants,  ( Vide  Ch.  3  on  Animal  and  Vegetable 
horoscopy).  Again,  it  does  not  appear  that  the  Nadi- 
granthams  treat  of  any  period  of  time  other  than  the 
present  Kaliyuga,  and  it  is  probable  that  those  human 
chakrams  that  pointed  to  births  in  other  yugas  have  been 
rejected.  Now  a  number  of  horoscopes,  though  agreeing 
in  the  broad  Zodiacal  divisions  of  the  planetary  places, 
might  show  great  differences  where  the  divisions  are 
more  minute  ;  as  the  Navamsa,  Trimsamsa,  Hora,  Drek- 
kaua,  Dvadasarnsa  and  the  like  divisions,  and  it  might  be 
asked  whether  the  Na&igranthams  recognize  these 
divisions,  and  if  not,  on  what  basis  these  Granthams  are 
built. 

The  360  degrees  of  the  ecliptic  are  divided  into  12 
equal  parts  of  30  degrees  each,  and  each  division  is  known 
as  a  sign  of  the  Zodiac.  Each  sign,  for  purpose  of  Nadi- 
granthams  is  divided  into  150  parts  known  as  amsas,  and 
these  amsas  have  particular  names  assigned  to  them,  such 
as  Vasudha,  Vaishnavi,  Brahmt,  Kala  Kuta,  A  hi,  Sankari, 
and  so  forth.  A  degree  of  the  ecliptic  contains  5  such 
parts,  and  each  part  is  divided  into  two  halves  known  as 
Purvabhaga  and  Uttarabhaga,  z'.«.,  the  first  half  and  the 
second  half.  For  each  half  the  Nadigrantham  contains 
a  life,  and  this  half  represents  in  space  6  minutes,  and  in 


Introduction.  21 

time  a  Vigliatika  or  24  seconds.  So  that  the  number  of 
horoscopes  treated  of  in  Nadigrantharns  as  regards  the 
amsas  is  3,600.  Now  the  first  volume  of  Dhruvanadi  gives 
a  brief  account  of  the  lives  of  persons  for  the  many  amsas 
already  referred  to.  The  sketch  is  quite  independent  of 
the  position  of  the  planets  and  holds  true  with  some 
slight  alterations  from  planetary  influences.  The  points 
treated  of  refer  to  the  material  points  of  one's  life.  Now 
in  the  case  of  human  horoscopy  there  is  a  law  connecting 
the  amsas  with  the  positions  of  the  planets.  I  long  sus- 
pected that  such  a  law  of  connection  must  exist.  For 
otherwise  it  would  not  be  possible  to  describe  correctly 
the  positions  of  the  planets  several  thousand  years  hence 
and  for  such  long  ages.  I  examined  the  pages  of  the  volume 
already  referred  to,  and  found  the  author  writing  in  one 
place  as  follows  : — 

"  We  shall  now  proceed  to  state  the  method  of  dis- 
covering the  places  of  the  planets  for  the  several  amsas 
for  human  births/' 

A  thrill  of  joy  ran  through  me  which  was  soon 
followed  by  bitter  disappointment.  For,  the  next  cadjan 
leaf  which  ought  to  have  contained  the  information 
wanted  was  missing  !  Some  person,  evidently  seeing  the 
importance  of  the  information,  must  have  carried  away 
the  leaf  o£  the  book  I  examined.  Our  readers  are 
requested  to  examine  other  copies  of  the  1st  volume  of 
the  Dhruvanadi. 

The  author  of  Nadigrantham  takes  up  an  amsam  and 
jots  down  the  positions  or  the  several  sets  of  positions  of 
the  planets,  taking  into  consideration  especially  their 
Zodiacal  divisions,  and  by  slightly  altering,  or  adding  to, 
the  brief  sketch  above  referred  to,  for  the  amsas,  finishes 
his  account  of  a  life.  The  author  says  that  he  treats  only 
of  about  30  or  40  important  points  in  each  life.  Now 
under  one  of  these  accounts  a  number  of  persons  will  fall 
whose  lives  will  show  differences  of  a  more  minute  nature 


22  Introduction. 

which  the  Nadigrantham  does  not  take  into  account.  The 
Nadigranthams  therefore  are  only  very  brief  sketches  of 
human  lives.  A  really  learned  astrologer  can  write  out 
an  account  of  a  man's  life  10  or  20  times  the  length  of 
the  sketch  in  a  Nadigrantham. 

This  perhaps  is  the  proper  place  for  a  few  words 
regarding  a  common  complaint  on  the  part  of  persons 
who  have  consulted  the  Nadigranthams,  that  these 
books  are  under  a  curse,  that  they  correctly  describe  the 
past  events  of  a  person's  life  and  err  regarding  the  future 
events.  The  fault  is  not  that  of  the  Grantham  ;  it  certainly 
would  not  be  possible  for  the  author  to  ascertain  before- 
hand at  what  period  of  one's  life  the  book  would  be  con- 
sulted, and  then  to  give  a  correct  account  of  such  life  till 
that  peri  od  of  time,  and  then  (for  such  an  able  astrologer) 
purposely  to  err.  The  fact  is  that,  as  already  explained,  the 
position  of  the  planets  as  shewn  in  the  horoscopes  do  not 
agree  with  any  given  in  the  Nadigranthams.  The  pos- 
sessor of  a  Nadigrantliam  examines  a  number  of  horosco- 
pes in  which  the  planetary  positions  very  nearly  approach 
those  shewn  by  the  horoscopes  presented  to  him.  The 
nearer  the  astrologer  approaches  the  correct  horoscope, 
the  more  numerous  will  be  the  points  of  agreement  between 
the  life  suspected  as  the  correct  life  and  the  actual  life  of 
the  person.  Now,  if  while  the  astrologer  reads  out  from 
his  book,  the  person  consulting  it  meets  with  any  past 
events  of  his  life  not  tallying  with  the  statements  of  the 
book,  the  pages  are  set  aside  and  other  pages  examined. 
But  if  no  discrepancy  is  noticed,  the  person  comes  hastily 
to  the  conclusion  that  the  life  picked  out  is  his  and  goes 
home  satisfied,  with  a  copy  of  it.  In  such  cases,  the 
chances  of  disappointment  are  more  numerous  than  those 
of  success.  The  best  plan  would  be,  for  a  person  who 
wishes  to  consult  the  Nadigranthains,  to  have  his  horos- 
cope prepared  with  the  help  of  the  correct  modern  tables 
and  the  correct  ayanamsa. 


Introduction.  23 

As  regards  the  first  astrological  work  taken  up  for 
translation,  viz.,  the  Brihat  Jataka  of  Varaha  Mihira,  it  is 
generally  considered  as  one  of  the  best  works  on  the 
science.  The  autho  r  himself  says  of  it  as  follows  : 


"  For  the  benefit  of  those  of  broken  attempts  to  cross 
the  ocean  of  horoscopy,  I  construct  this  little  boat  consist- 
ing of  a  variety  of  metres  with  a  multiplicity  of  mean- 
ings/' Most  of  the  stanzas  are  purposely  intended  to 
convey  several  meanings.  Four  commentaries  have 
accordingly  sprung  up.  The  well  known  one  is  that  of 
Bhatta  Utpala  ;  another  is  known  as  Subodhini  ;  both  of 
these  are  now  with  me  ;  a  third  commentary  is  known  as 
Mudrakshari,  in  which  it  is  said  that  most  of  the  stanzas 
are  interpreted  arithmetically  —  the  letters  all  standing 
for  so  many  figures  and  the  figures  representing  the  27 
asterisms,  the  12  signs,  the  9  planets,  and  so  forth.  The 
fourth  commentary  is  known  as  Sreepateyam. 

The  author  has  written  a  smaller  work  on  astrology 
known  as  L,aghu  Jataka.  Hence  the  present  work  is 
styled  the  Brihat  Jataka.  Jataka  or  horoscopy  is  one  of 
the  three  sections  of  Jyotis-Sastra  ;  and  the  author  has 
treated  of  all  the  three  branches.  The  other  two  branches 
are  Sainhita  and  Astronomy.  Varaha  Mihira's  work 
on  the  former,  known  as  the  Brihat  Samhita,  is  now 
being  translated  by  me,  and  his  astronomical  work  is 
known  as  Panchasiddhantika.  It  was  long  supposed  to 
to  have  been  lost.  Fortunately  two  copies  of  this  rare 
work  were  recently  discovered,  and  they  were  purchased 
by  the  Bombay  Government.  M.  Thibaut,  Phil.  Dr.,  is 
now  preparing  an  edition  and  an  English  translation  of 
the  same,  assisted  by  Pandit  Suddhakara.  Varaha  Mihira 
has  also  written  a  work  known  as  Yogayatra.  A  mantis- 


24  Introduction. 

cript  copy  of  this  work  is  with  Dr.  Kerne,  now  in  Leydou 
Holland. 

I  have  deemed  it  advisable  to  explain  and  retain  the 
use  of  a  number  of  Sanscrit   terms  for  the  convenience  of 
the  natives  of  this  country,    who  must    be  more  familiar 
with  them  than  with  their   English    equivalents    where 
such  exist.     It  may  be  well  to  state  here  some  of  the  sub- 
jects treated  of  in  the  work  now  taken  up  for  translation . 
The  book  contains  28  chapters.     The   first   two  chapters 
relate  to  definitions  of  astrological   terms   and  to  elemen- 
tary principles,  the  third  relates  to   animal  and  vegetable 
horoscopy.     The   fourth  treats    of  the   determination   of 
the  nature  of  issue — their  physical  peculiarities,  fortunes, 
&c.,  from  the  planetary  positions   at  the  time  of  concep- 
tion.    A  chapter  is   devoted  to  the  determination   of  the 
description  of  the  place  of  birth  and  the   other  incidents 
connected  with  the  time  of  birth  from  planetary  positions 
with  a  view  to  the  correct   ascertainment   of  the   Lagna. 
The  next   chapter  treats  of  early  death— Balarishta,  and 
the  next  is  devoted  to  the  determination  of  the  length  of 
life  of  a  native — Jataki.  A  chapter  is   devoted  to  the  par- 
ticular avocations  of  men  and  to  their  sources  of  wealth. 
Then   follow   several   important  chapters  on   Eaja   and 
other  Yogas.    The  chapter  on  Pravrijya  yoga  determines 
under  what  planetary  aspects   a  native   will  turn  out  an 
ascetic.    The  chapter  headed   Auishtadhyaya   contains  a 
number  of  malevolent  planetary  positions,  each  connected 
with  some  evil  of  human  life.    A   chapter   is  devoted  to 
women.    This  is  followed  by  a  chapter  which   describes 
the  particular  manner  in  which  a  person   meets    with  his 
death  and  the  nature  of  his  future  life.     In  the  next  chap- 
ter the   author  lays   down    rules  for  the  determination 
of  the  horoscope  of  a  person  ignorant  of  his  time  of  birth. 
The   above  is  not  a  complete  list,  and  it  would  be    wrong 
to  judge  of  the  interesting  nature  of  the  contents  of  each 
chapter  from  the  brief  account  given  above. 


Astrological  Terms  25 

The  appendix  to  the  translation  will  contain  numer- 
ous tables  and  diagrams  relating  to  the  construction  of 
horoscopes  and  to  the  ascertainment  of  the  local  time  by 
the  sun-dial,  by  the  shadow,  and,  at  night,  by  the  transit 
of  the  stars  over  the  meridian.  We  will  also  state  rules 
for  the  construction  of  the  plane  of  meridian  by  means  of 
fine  threads  for  purposes  of  observation.  The  appendix 
will  also  contain  a  few  tables,  for  the  calculation  of  the 
lengths  of  the  Dasas  and  Bhukties. 

We  may  conclude  this  Introduction  with  the  words 
of  Zadkiel  and  "  advise  those  who  value  truth  to  spend  a 
few  days  in  examining  the  principles  laid  down  in  this 
work  and  applying  them  to  their  own  individual  cases 
before  they  join  the  herd  of  the  learned  and  the  unlearned 
in  pledging  their  words  to  a  false  assertion,  -viz.,  that 
Astrology  is  an  unfounded  science." 

N.  C. 
MADURA,  2nd  June  1885. 


ASTROLOGICAL 


The  following  list  of  Astrological  terms  defined  in 

the  first  two  chapters  and   arranged  alphabetically  with 

the  stanzas  given  opposite  to  each   is  published  for  con- 
venience of  reference  :— 

Ch.  Stanza. 
A. 

Agna  (loth  house)          I  16 

Akokera  (Greek  name  for  Makara,  Capricorn).     I  8 

Ambu  (4th  house)         ...         ...         I  18 

Angles  or  quadrants,  their  strength  ...         ....     I  19 

Antyabha  (Sign  Meena,  Pisces)...       ...          ...    I  8 

Apoklima  (the  3rd,  6th,  9th  and  12  houses 

from  the  ascendant)       ...         ...         ...     I  18 

Aspects,  planetary         II  13 

Astabhavana  (7th  house  or  setting  sign)       ...     I  18 

Astangata planets          ...  VII  2 

Atimitragraha,  very  friendly  planets II  18 

Atisatrugraha,  very  inimical  planets  ...        ...  II  19 

B. 

Benefic  planets   •••         ...        II  5 

Benefic  signs       I  11 

Biped  signs,  their  strength      I  19 

C. 

Castes,  planetary  divisions  of  ...                    ...  II  7 

Centiped  signs,  their  strength...                     ...     I  19 

Chara  rasi,  movable  signs  ....                    ...     I  11 

Chaturasra,  4th  and  8th  houses                     ...     I  16 
Chatushpada  rasi,  quadruped  signs               ...     I  17  &  19 

Cheshtabala,  motional  strength  of  planets  ...  II  19 

Clothes,  planetary  divisions  of           II  12 

Colors,  planetary  divisions  of II  4  &  5 


28  Astrological  Terms. 

Ch.  Stanza. 

Colors,  of  Zodiacal  signs         I  20 

Common  signs ...  I  11 

D. 

Dakshina  rasis,  Southern  signs         I  11 

Depression  signs  and  degrees I  13 

Devas,  planetary  divisions  of II  5 

Dhatus  or   elements  of  the   body,  planetary 

divisions  of II  11 

Dik  bala,  quarterly  strength  of  planets        ...  II  19 

Dik,  direction  of  planets          II  5 

Directions  of  planets    ,. II  5 

Diurnal  signs     ...  I  10 

Drekkanas,  their  lords I  11  &  12 

Drishti,  planetary  sight  or  aspect      ...         ...  II  13 

Duschikya,  3rd  house I  19 

Dwadasabhava,  signification  of  the  12  houses  I  15  &  16 
Dwadasauisa,    division    of   a    sign  into  12 

parts             I  6 

Dwelling  houses,  planetary  divisions  of 

parts  of        II  12 

Dwipada  rasis,  biped  signs      I  19 

Dyuna,  7th  house         I  16 


E. 

Eastern  signs               I  11 

Elements,  dhatus,  of  the  body,  planetary 

divisions  of             II  11 

Elements,  planetary  divisions  of       ...         ...  II  6 

Exaltation  signs  and  degrees             I  1 

F. 

Female  planets II  6 

Female  signs      I  11 

Fixed  signs I  11 

Flavor,  planetary ..,         ...  II  14 

Foot,  signs  that  rise  with  their          I  10 

Forms  of  the  signs       ...        ...        „  1  o 


Astrological  Terms.  29 

Ch.  Stanza. 

Forms  of  the,, planets II  8  to  11 

Friendly  planets           ...                    II  15  to  18 

G. 

Garments,  planetary  divisions  of        ...         ...  II  12 

Greek  names  for  Zodiacal  signs          ...         ...  I  8 

Guna,  temper,  planetary  divisions  of II  7 

H. 

Heads,  signs  that  rise  with  their        ...         ...  -  I  10 

Head  and  tail,  sign  that  rises  with  its          ...  I  10 

Hermaphrodite  planets...         II  6 

Hibuka,  4th  house        I  18 

Hora         I  9 

Horas,  their  lords          I  11  &  12 

Houses,  their  lords        I  6 

Hridroga.    Greek  name  for  Kumbha,  Aquarius.  I  8 

I. 

Immovable  signs           ...         I  11 

Inimical  planets            ...        II  15  to  18 

J- 

Jamitra,  7th  house         ...         ... I  18 

Jati,  Caste,  of  the  planets         II  7 

Jitunia,  Greek  name  for  Mithuna,  Gemini   ...  I  8 

Juka,  Greek  name  for  Tula,  Libra     1  8 

K. 

Kala,  time,  planetary  lengths  of         II  14 

Kala  bala,  periodical  strength  of  planets  II  19 

Kala  purusha,  planetary  divisions  of II  l 

Kala  purusha,  Zodiacal  division  of    ...         ...  I  4 

Karniasthanam,  10th  house      I  18 

Kendra,  quadrants  or  angles/their  strength...  1. 17  &  19 

Kourpya,  Greek  name  for  Vrischika,  Scorpio.  I  & 


SO  Astrological  Terms. 

Ch.  Stanza. 

Kria,  Greek  name  for  Mesha,  Aries  ...        »*.     I 

Kulira,  Kataka,  Cancer I  8 

L. 

L,agna,  strength  of                    -I  18 

I<eya,  Greek  name  for  Simha,  L,eo     I  8 

M. 

Male  planets       II  6 

Male  signs           ...          I  11 

Malefic  planets .  ....         ...   II  5 

Malefic  signs       I  11 

Measurement  of  the  Zodiacal  signs I  19 

Meshoorana,  10th  house           ...         .  .         ...     I  18 

Metals,  planetary  divisions  of ...         ..         ...   II  12 

Mitragraha,  friendly  planets II  1 5  to  18 

Moola  Trikona,  signs  and  their  lords I  14 

Motional  strength  of  planets II  19 

Movable  signs     ... I  11 

Movable  and  immovable  signs           ...        ...     I  11 

N. 

Naisargikabala,  natural,  relative  strength 

of  planets     ...          .          II  21 

Names,  various,  for  planets      II       2&3 

Napumsaka  graha,  hermaphrodite  planets    ...  II  6 

Natural,  relative,  strength  of  planets...         ...  II  19 

Navamsa,  division  of  sign  into  9  parts  and 

their  lords ...         I  6 

Neecha,  depression  signs        I  13 

Neutral  planets II    17  &  18 

Nocturnal  signs             ...     I  10 

P- 

Panapara  signs,  2nd,  5th,  8th  &  llth  houses      \  18 

Papagraha,  malefic  planets      ...         ...         ...  II  5 

Paparasi,  malefic  signs                         ...         ...     I  11 

faschima  rasi,  Western  signs I  11 


Astrological  Terms. 

31 

Ch.  Stanza. 

Pathona,  Greek  name  for  Kanya,  Virgo 

I           8 

Periodical  strength  of  the  planets      

II          10 

Political  divisions  of  the  planets 

II            1 

Positional  strength  of  the  planets. 

II          19 

Prak  rasis,  Eastern  signs 

I          Jl 

Prishtodaya  rasis,  signs  rising  with  their  feet 

.    I          10 

Purnsha  graha,  male  planets   ... 

,  II            6 

Purusha  rasis,  male  signs         

I          11 

Q- 

Quadrants,  their  strength          

I  17  &19 

Quadruped  signs,  their  strength 

I   17  &  19 

Quarterly  strength  of  planets  

II           19 

R. 

Rasis  Si°Tis,  names  of  ...         ... 

I            4 

Rasis,  their  lords 

I            6 

Rikshasandhi   defined  ... 

1             7 

Ritus,  planetary  divisions  of   ... 

.  II           12 

Rupa,  shapes,  of  planets           

.  IE  8  to  11 

Rupa,  shapes,  of  signs  ...                    ... 

I            5 

S. 

Sama  graha,  neutral  planets    

.  II  16&17 

Satru  graha,  inimical  planets  ... 

,  11  15  to  18 

Seasons,  planetary  divisions  of 

.  11           12 

Shadvarga,  6  modes  of  the  division  of  the 

ecliptic 

I            9 

Shapes  of  the  signs        ...         ...         ... 

I            5 

II     8  to  11 

Sights  or  aspects  of  the  planets 

.  II          13 

Signs,  names  of  ... 

I            4 

Signs,  their  lords 

1            6 

Significations,  of  the  12  signs  of  Zodiac 

.     I  15  &  16 

Siraprishtodaya  rasi,  sign  that  rises  with  its 

head  and  tail 

I           10 

Sirodaya  rasis,  signs    that  rise  with  their 

heads 

I          10 

Sou  them  signs  ...         

I          11 

Sthanabala,  positional  strength  of  planets     ., 

,.  U          19 

32  Astrological  Terms. 

Ch.  Stazna. 

Sthiia  rasis,. fixed  signs I  II 

Streegraha,  female  planets       II  6 

Stree  rasis,  female  signs                      I  11 

Strength  of  Lagna        ..          I  19 

Subhagraha,  benefic  planets II  5 

Sukha,  4th  house          I  18 

Sutabha,  5th  house       ...                     I  18 

Swakshetra  houses  and  their  lords     ...         ...     I  6 

T. 

Tails,  signs  that  rise  with  their         I  10 

Tapas,  9th  house           I  19 

Tavuri,  Greek  name  for  Vrishabha,  Taurus        I  8 

Temper,  of  planets        II  7 

Toukshika,  Greek  name  for  Dhanus,  Sagittari.  I  8 

Triangular  signs            I  6 

Trikona,  5th  house       I  18 

Trikona  rasi,  triangular  signs            ...         ...     I  6 

Trimsamsa,  division  of  sign  into  30  parts     ..I  7 

Tritrikona,  9th  house  .,           I  19 

U. 

Ubhaya  rasi,  movable  and  immovable  signs...     I  11 

Uccharasi,  signs  of  exaltation  With  degrees...     I  13 

Upachaya  or  improving  signs ...     I  15 

Uttara  rasi,  Northern  signs     I  11 

V. 

Vargotlama,  defined      ...          I  14 

Varna,  color  of  planets  II      4  &  5 

Varna,  color  of  Zodiacal  signs            I  20 

Vesi,  2nd  house  from  the  Sun            I  20 

Vesma,  4th  house         I  19 

W. 

Western  signs     I  11 


OK 


VARAHA    MIHIRA. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Definitions  and  Elementary  Principles. 
(Zodiacal.) 

1.  May  the  Sun  give  us  speech,  who  by  his  light 
illumines  the  Moon, (#)  who  is  the  path  of  those  who 
have  no  rebirth,  who  is  the  Atma  of  those  who  know  the 
Atma,  who  is  the  Deva  worshipped  in  sacrificial  rites, 
who  is  the  Lord  of  the  Devas  and  of  the  Lights  of  the 
sky,  who  is  the  Author  of  the  origin,  growth  and  anni- 
hilation of  the  worlds,  who  is  sung  in  the  Vedas  in  various 
ways,  who  is  possessed  of  many  rays  and  who  forms  the 
Lamp  of  the  three  worlds. 

NOTES. 

(a).  In  connection  with  this  we  would  draw  the  atten- 
tion of  the  reader  to  what  the  author  says  on  the  subject 
of  the  Moon  receiving  light  from  the  Sun  in  Stanza  2  of 
Chapter  IV  of  his  Brihat  Samhita,  which  runs  as  follows  : 
"The  rays  of  the  Sun  falling  on  the  watery  Moon 
remove  the  darkness  of  the  night  (on  Earth)  just  in  the 
same  way  as  light  reflected  from  a  mirror  (placed  in  the 
removes  the  darkness  (from)  within  a  room/' 


2  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  I. 

And  in  the  Vedas  we  find  the  (visible)  Moon   briefly 
defined  as  follows : 

"  Surya   rasmischandiamah." 
The  Moon  is  the  rays  of  the  Sun. 

2.  Though  various  well  written  works  on  Astrology 
(«)    the    productions  of  able  men  exist  for  the  enlighten- 
ment  of  intelligent   students  (of  horoscopy),   I   begin  to 
construct  (this)  small  boat  (consisting)  of  stanzas  (written) 
in  various  metres  and  of  several  meanings  for  (the  benefit 
of)  persons  of  broken  attempts  lo  cross  the  vast  ocean  of 
horoscopy. 

NOTES. 

(a)     Such  works  as  those  of  Parasara,  Garga,  Badara- 
yana,  Satyacharya  and  others. 

3.  According  to  some,  the  word  hora  is  a  corruption 
of  the  tvord  Ahoratri  the  first  and  last  letters  (syllables) 
being  dropped.     The  science  (of  horoscopy)  treats  of  the 
effects  of  the  good  and  bad  deeds  (karma)  of  nun  in  their 
previous  births. 

4.  The  (twelve)   signs  of  the   Zodiac,   commencing 
with   the    first   point    of  Aries    and  of  (the    asterism  of) 
Aswini,  and  consisting,  each,  of  nine  stellar    quarters  and 
forming  a  circle,  are   respectively  the  head,  face,    breast, 
heart,  belly,  navel,  abdomen,    genital    organ,    two  thighs, 
two  knees,  two  ankles  and  the  two    feet  of  Kalapurtisha. 
(The    terms)    Rasi,    Kshetra,    Graha,    Riksha,     Bhain, 
Bhavana,  are  synonymous  terms. 

NOTES. 

The  following  table  will  be  useful  for  purposes  of  ready 
reference  : — 

Rast.  Sign*  Pnrtofbotly. 

Mesh  a          ...Aries  ...Head 

Vrishabha   ...Taurus  ,,,Face 


CH.  t.] 


that  Jtitakd. 


Rasi. 

Mithuna 

Kataka 

Si  mh  a 

Kanya 

Tula 

Vrischika 

Dhantis 

Makara 

Kumbha 

Meena 


Sign. 
...  Gemini 
...  Cancer 
. ,.  Leo 
.,.  Virgo 
...  Libra 

.  Scorpio 
.,.  Sagittari 
.,.  Capricorn 
, ..  Aquarius 
...  Pisces 


Part  of  body. 

...  Breast 

...Heart 

...Belly 
...  Navel 
...  Abdomen 
...  Genital  organ 
...Two  thighs 
...  Two  knees 
...  Two  ankles 
...  Two  feet 


The  twenty 

Aswini 

Bharani 

Krittika 

Rohini 

Mrigasirsha 

Ardra 

Punarvasti 

Pushya 

Ashlesha 

Magha 

P.  Phalguni 

U.  Phalguui 

Hasta 

Chitra 

Swati 

Visakha 

Anuradha 

Jyeshta 

Mul  a 

P.  Ashadha 

U.  Ashadha 

Sravana 

Sravishta 

Satabhishak 


-seven  a.sterisms  are  : — 


13  Arietis 

35  Arietis,  and  Musca 

7  Tauri,  Alcyone 

tt  Tauri,  Aldebaran 

P    Orionis 

a  Orionis 

#  Gemini  Pollux 

ft    Cancri 

8  Hydrae 

a  Leon  is,  Regulas 

8  Leon  is 

/9  Leonis 

8   Corvi 

a  Virginia  Spica 

a   Bootis,Arcturu9 

z   Librae 

$  Scorpion  is 

a  Scorpiouis,  Aritares 

I,    Scorpiouis 

8  Sagittarii 

8   Sagittarii 

n  Aquilae,  Atair 

(3  Delphini 

X  Aquafii 


4  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  I. 

P.  Ehadrapada      ...  ...      <y  Pegasi 

U.  Bhadrapada      ...  ...     7  Pegasi  &  And remedae 

Revati  ...  $  Piscium 

These  asterisms  or  lunar  mansions  are  divided  each 
into  four  equal  parts  known  as  Nakshatrapadas.  1  here 
are  therefore  108  such  parts  in  the  ecliptic,  and  each  sign 
contains  nine  such  parts  or  2i  stellar  divisions.  The 
first  asterism,  Aswini,  commences  at  the  first  point  of 
Aries,  which  is  the  star  Revati,  about  20°  to  the  east  of 
the  Vernal  Equinox — (Vide  Introduction),  so  that  the 
second  quarter  of  the  asterism  of  Krittika  commences  at 
the  first  point  of  Taurus.  The  third  quarter  of  the  asterism 
of  Mrigasirsha  commences  at  the  first  point  of  Gemini 
and  the  fourth  quarter  of  the  asterism  of  Punarvasu 
commences  at  the  first  point  of  Cancer,  and  so  on. 

Bach  of  the  terms  Rasi,  Kshetra,  Graha,  etc.,  means 
A  sign  of  the  Zodiac,  which  is  a  twelfth  part  of  the 
heavens  or  80°  of  the  ecliptic. 

6,  Sign  Pisces  is  of  the  shape  of  (a)  two  fish  ;  sign 
Aquarius  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  with  a  (water)  pot; 
sign  Gemini  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  woman,  (the 
former)  with  a  stick  and  (the  latter)  with  a  lyre,  both 
seated  in  one  seat ;  sign  Sagittari  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man 
who  in  his  lower  parts  is  a  horse  ;  sign  Capricorn  is  of  the 
shape  of  a  crocodile  with  the  face  of  a  deer ;  sign  Libra 
is  of  the  shape  of  a  person  with  scales  (in  his  hand) ;  and 
sign  Virgo  is  of  the  shape  of  a  virgin  in  a  boat  with 
crops  (in  one  hand)  and  a  light  (in  the  other).  The 
other  signs  resemble  in  shape  (b)  the  different  creatures 
denoted  by  their  names.  The  dwelling  places  of  the 
several  signs  are  places  appropriate  to  the  several 
creatures. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Sign  Pisces  is  of  the  shape  of  two  fish  lying 


CH.  I.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  5 

side  by  side,  the  head  of  the  one   being  near   the  tail  of 
the  other. 

(b)  That  is,  Aries  (Mesha)  is  of  the  shape  of  a  ram  ; 
Taurus  (Vrishabha),  of  the  shape  of  a  bull ;  Cancer  (Kata- 
ka),  of  the  shape  of  a  crab  ;  Leo  (Simha).  of  the  shape  of 
a  lion  ;and  Scorpio  (Vrischika),  of  the  shape  of  a  scorpion. 

This  stanza  as  well  as  stanza  4  are  chiefly  useful  in 
questions  connected  with  horary  astrology — in  the  disco- 
very of  stolen  property  and  the  like. 

6-  Mars,  Venus,  Mercm y,  the  Moon,  the  Sun,  Mer- 
cury, Venus,  Mars,  Jupiter,  Saturn,  Saturn  and  Jupiter 
are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  Signs,  and  of  the  Navani- 
sas  and  Dwadasamsas ;  and  the  several  signs  (of  the 
Zodiac  beginning  from  Aries)  commence  respectively 
with  the  Navamsas  of  Mesha,  Makara,  Tula  and  Kataka. 

NOTES. 

Six  modes  of  division  of  the  ecliptic  (360°)  for  horo- 
scopic  purposes  known  as  the  Shadvarga  are  mentioned 
(vide  stanza  9).  These  are  Rasi  (sign)  in  which  the 
ecliptic  is  divided  into  12  equal  parts  of  30°  each  (vide 
stanza  4);  Hora  in  which  each  sign  is  divided  into  two 
equal  parts  of  15°  each  (vide  stanzas  9  and  11) ;  Drekka- 
n a  in  which  a  sign  is  divided  into  three  equal  parts  of 
10°  each  (vide  stanzas  11  and  12);  Navamsa  in  which  a 
sign  is  divided  into  nine  equal  parts  of  3°  20'  each  ;  Dwada- 
sama,  in  which  a  sign  is  divided  into  twelve  equal  parts 
of  2°  30'  each  ;  and  Trimsamsa,  in  which  a  sign  is  divided 
into  thirty  equal  parts  of  a  degree  each  (vide  stanza  7). 

The  Navamsas  :  Each  sign  being  divided  into  9  equal 
parts  and  there  being  12  such  signs,  there  are  in  all  12x9 
or  108  such  divisions  in  the  ecliptic.  We  have  already 
(vide  stanza  4)  seen  that  the  ecliptic  contains  27x4  or 
108  stellar  quarters  or  Nakshatrapadas ;  it  follows  there- 
fore that  a  Navauisa  is  a  Nakshatrapada,  that  is  one- 


6  Brihat  Jatakd.  [CH.  I. 

fourth  of  a  lunar  mansion.  The  108  Navamsas  beginning 
from  the  first  point  of  Aries  bear  the  same  names  as  the 
twelve  signs  of  the  Zodiac  counted  over  and  over  again  : 
the  first  Navamsa  of  Mesha  is  Mesha  itself;  that  of  Vri- 
shabha  is  Makara ;  that  of  Mithuna  is  Tula  ;  and  that  of 
Kataka  is  Kataka  itself.  The  same  order  holds  for  the  4 
signs  from  Simha  to  Vrischika  and  for  the  4  from  Dhanus 
to  Meena.  In  other  words  the  four  sets  of  Trikona  or 
triangular  signs  begin  with  the  same  Navamsas  :  that  is, 
the  Trikona  signs  of 

Mesha,  Simha,  Dhanus  begin  with  the  Navamsa  of 
Mesha. 

Vrishabha,  Kauya,  Makara  begin  with  the  Navamsa 
of  Makara. 

Mithuna,  Tula,  Kumbha  begin  with  the  Navamsa 
of  Tula,  and 

Kataka,  Vrischika,  Meena  begin  with  the  Navamsa  of 
Kataka. 

The  Dwadasamsas  :  The  twelve  parts  into  which 
each  sign  is  divided  bear  the  same  names  as  those  of  the 
signs  of  the  Zodiac.  The  name  of  the  first  Dwadasamsa 
of  a  particular  sign  is  the  name  of  the  sign  itself.  So 
that  the  12  Dwadasamsas  of  Mesha  are  Mesha,  Vrishabha, 
Mithuna,  &c.,  ending  with  Meena.  Those  of  Vrishabha 
are  Vrishabha,  Mithuna,  Kataka,  &c.,  ending  with  Mesha. 
Those  of  Mithuna  are  Mithuna,  Kataka,  Simha,  &c., 
ending  with  Vrishabha  and  so  on. 

The  lords  of  the  Navamsas  and  Dwadasamsas  are 
the  same  as  the  lords  of  the  Rasis  (signs).  These  are 
mentioned  in  the  text  in  the  order  of  the  signs.  It  will 
be  found  that  the  Sun  and  Moon  have  each  a  house, 
while  the  other  planets  have  each  two  houses.  These 
houses  are  known  as  Swakshetras  :  thus 

Mars  is  the  lord  of  Mesha  and  Vrischika. 

Venus  is  the  lord  of  Vrishabha  and  Tula, 


CH.I.] 


Brihat  Jdtakd. 


Mercury  is  the  lord  of  Mithuna  and  Kanya. 

Jupiter  is  the  lord  of  Meeua  and  Dhanus. 

Saturn  is  the  lord  of  Kumbha  and  Makara. 

The  Moon  is  the  lord  of  Kataka,  and  the  Sun  is  the 
lord  of  Simlia. 

There  are  several  modes  of  constructing  a  figure  of 
the  heavens.  The  one  used  in  Southern  India  is  the  one 
recommended  by  Jaimini  the  author  of  Astrological 
Aphorisms.  It  is  given  below  and  the  reader  is  referred 
to  the  appendix  for  diagrams  relating  to  the  several 
modes  of  division  of  the  ecliptic  referred  to  above. 


Meena,  Jupiter. 

Mesha,   Mars. 

Vrishabha 
Venus. 

Mithuna 
Mercury. 

Kumbha,  Saturn 

RASI  CHAKRA. 

Kataka,  Moon. 

Makara,  Saturn, 

Simha,  Sun. 

Dhanus,  Jupiter. 

Vrischika, 
Mars. 

Tula,  Venus, 

Kanya, 
Mercury. 

7.  Five,  five,  eight,  seven  and  five  parts  (degrees) 
are  respectively  those  of  Mars,  Saturn,  Jupiter,  Mercury 
and  Venus  in  the  odd  signs.  In  the  even  signs  their 
order  is  reversed.  The  ends  (last  Navamsas)  of  Kataka, 
Vrischika  and  Meena  are  known  as  Riksha  sandhis. 

NOTES. 

This  stanza  defines  Trimsamsas,  and  their  lords.  As 
already  observed,  Trimsamsa  is  division  of  each  sign  into 
thirty  equal  parts,  each  part  being  a  degree.  The  odd 
signs  are  Mesha,  Mithuna,  Simha,  Tula,  Dhanus  and 
Kumbha.  The  even  signs  are  Vrishabha,  Kataka,  Kanya 
Vrischika,  Makara  and  Meena. 

In  the  odd  signs,  the  first  five  degrees  are  the  Trim- 
samsas of  Mars ;  the  next  five  are  those  of  Saturn  ;  tlie  next 


8  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  I. 

eight  are  those  of  Jupiter  ;  the  next  seven  are  those  of 
Mercury  ;  and  the  last  five  are  those  of  Venus.  In  the 
even  signs,  the  first  five  are  those  of  Venus;  the  next  seven 
are  those  of  Mercury;  the  next  eight  are  those  of  Jupiter  ; 
the  next  five  are  those  of  Saturn  ;  and  the  last  five  are 
those  of  Mars.  The  Trimsamsa  division  is  used  by  the 
author  in  his  Chapter  relating  to  the  horoscopy  of  women. 

8.  The  terms  Kriya,  Tavuri,  Jituma,  Kulira,  Leva, 
Pathona,  Juka,  Kourpi,  Toukshika,  Akokera,  Hridroga 
and  Antyabha  are  other  names  for  signs  of  Zodiac. 

NOTES. 

All  the  above  names,  excepting  Kulira  and  Antyabha, 
are  evidently  Greek  terms— a  circumstance  clearly  indica- 
ting that  the  intercourse  between  the  learned  men  of  India 
and  Hellas  was  more  than  superficial. 

9.  A   planet  is  said  to  be  in  its  Varga  if  it  be  in  its 
Drekkana,  Hora,  Navamsa,  Trimsamsa,  Dwadasamsa  and 
Kshetra.     The  term  Hora  means  both  the  rising  sign  and 
one-half  of  a  sign  of  the  Zodiac. 

NOTES. 

These  terms  have  already  been  explained  (vide 
stanza  6). 

The  term  Kshetra  means  a  house  or  a  sign.  For  the 
Names  and  Lords  of  the  Hora  divisions  of  a  sign,  vide, 
Stanza  11. 

10.  The  signs  Aries,  Taurus,  Gemini,  Cancer,  Sagit- 
tari  and  Capricorn  are  known  as  the  night  signs  ;    (a)  and, 
with  the  exception  of  Gemini,  they  rise  with  their  feet  (6). 
The  other  signs  rise  with  their  heads  (c)  and  are  powerful 
by  day  ^d),     The  two  fish  rise  by  both  (head  and  foot),  (e}. 

NOTES. 

(#).  Therefore  the  day  signs  are  Leo,  Virgo,  Libra, 
Scorpio,  Acjuarius  and  Pisces, 


CH.  I]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  { 0 

(3)  Signs  that  rise  by  their  feet  are  known  as  Prish- 
todaya  Rasis  and  these  are  Aries,  Taurus,  Cancer,  Sagit- 
tari  and  Capricorn. 

(c)  Signs  that  rise  by  their  heads  are  known  as  Siro- 
daya  Rasis,  and  these  aie  Gemini,  Leo,  Virgo,  Libra,  Scor- 
pio and  Aquarius. 

(d)  Therefore  the  Prishtodaya  signs  are  powerful  at 
night. 

(e~)     For  the  shape  of  the  sign  Pisces,  vide  Stanza'5; ' 

11.  The  signs  (from  Aries)  are  (by  turns)  malefic  and 
benefic,  masculine  and  feminine  (a)  and  movable,  fixed  and 
both  (movable  and  fixed)  (<$).  The  signs  Aries,  Taurus, 
Gemini  and  Cancer  with  their  triangular  signs  denote  each 
respectively  the  East,  South,  West  and  North  (c).  The 
two  horas  of  the  odd  signs  are  respectively  the  Solar 
and  Lunar  horas,  and  the  ttoo  of  the  even  signs  are 
respectively  the  Lunar  and  Solar  horas.  Tbe  lords  of  the 
Drekkanas,  (d)  (of  a  particular  sign)  are  respectively  the 
lords  of  that  sign,  the  5th  sign  and  the  9th  sign. 

NOTES. 

(a\  In  other  words  the  odd  signs  are  all  malefic  and 
masculine,  and  the  even  signs  are  all  benefic  and  feminine. 

(3).  Aries,  Cancer,  Libra  and  Capricorn  are  movable 
signs. 

Taurus,  Leo,  Scorpio  and  Aquarius  are  fixed  signs. 

Gemini,  Virgo,  Sagittari,and  Pisces  are  both  (movable 
and  fixed)  and  are  also  known  as  common  signs. 

(*r\  The  signs  Aries,  Leo  and  Sagittari  are  known  as 
the  Eastern  signs  ; 

Taurus,  Virgo  and  Capricorn  as  Southern  signs. 
Gemini,  Libra  and  Aquarius  as  Western  signs. 
Cancer,  Scorpio  and  Pisces  as  Northern  sig$s, 

2 


10  Briliat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  I 

(d)  For  example  :  The  lords  of  the  three  Drekkanas 
of  Leo  are  respectively  the  Sun  (lord  of  Leo),  Jupiter 
lord  of  Sagittari,  the  5th  house)  and  Mars  (lord  of  Aries 
the  9th  house). 

12.  According  to  some  (a)  the  lords  of  the  two  horas 
of  a  sign  are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  sign  and  of  the 
llth  sign  (b}\  and    the   lords   of  the  three  Drekkanas  of  a 
sign  are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  sign,  the  12th  sign 
and  the  llth  sign  (c)  from  it. 

NOTES. 

(«).  That  is,  according  to  Garga  and  men  of  his 
school.  But  the  author's  opinion  is  that  expressed  in 
stanza  11  in  which  he  is  supported  by  the  opinion  of  Satya- 
charya. 

(b).  The  lords  of  the  two  horaS  of  Sagittari,  for  in- 
stance, are  respectively  Jupiter  (lord  of  Sagittari)  and  Ve- 
nus (lord  of  Libra,  the  llth  house). 

(c).  The  lords  of  the  three  Drekkanas  of  Sagittari,  for 
instance,  are  respectively  Jupiter  (lord  of  Sagittari),  Mars 
(lord  of  Scorpio,  the  12th  house)  and  Venus  (lord  of  Libra, 
the  llth  house). 

13.  The   signs     Aries,   Taurus,    Capricorn,    Virgo, 
Cancer,     Pisces  and  Libra     are   respectively  the    Uccha 
(exaltation)  signs  of   the  Sun    and   other   planets.     The 
10th,  3rd,  28th,  15th,  5th,  27th,  and  20th  are  the  degrees 
of  main  exaltation  of  the    several  planets.     The  7th   or 
opposite  signs  are  the  Neecha  (depression)  signs  ;  and  the 
degrees  of  main  depression  are  the  same  as    given  above. 

NOTES. 

A  planet  in  his  exaltation  sign  is  consrdered  as  exceed- 
ingly powerful  and  one  in  his  depression  sign  as  exceed- 
ingly weak.  The  Sun  and  Moon  are  also  treated  as  pla- 
nets. The  Hifldu  Astrological  order  qf  the  planets  is  the 


CH.  I.]  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  ll 

same   as   the   days   of  the  week.     The  following  table  is 
given  for  convenience  of  reference- 

Planets.    Uccha  or  Exal-  Neecha  or  de-  Degree  of  main 
talion  signs,    pression  Signs-  Exaltation   or 

Depression. 

Sun.  Aries.  Libra.  10 

Moon.          Taurus.  Scorpio.  8 

Mars.          Capricorn.        Cancer.  29 

Mercury.     Virgo.  Pisces.  .15 

Jupiter.       Cancer.  Capricorn.  5 

Venus.         Pisces.  Virgo.  27 

Saturn.        Libra.  Aries.  20 

14.  In  the  movable  and  other  signs  («),  the  first,  the 
central  and  the  last  Navamas  are  known  as  Vargottama 
positions.  Planets  in  such  positions  will  produce  good 
effects.  The  signs  Leo,  Taurus,  Aries,  Virgo,  Sagittari, 
Libra,  and  Aquarius  are  known  as  the  Moola  Trikona 
houses  of  the  planets  respectively.  (&) 

NOTES. 

(<?)•     The  Vargottama   places  are  : — 

The  1st  Navamsas  of  the  four  movable  signs  Aries, 
Cancer,  Libra,  and  Capricorn. 

The  5th  Navamsas  of  the  four  fixed  signs,  Taurus, 
Leo,  Scorpio  and  Aquarius. 

The  9th  Navamsas  of  the  four  movable  and  fixed 
signs  Gemini,  Virgo,  Sagittari  and  Pisces. 

These  Navamsas  will  be  found  to  bear  the  same  names 
as  the  signs  themselves.  For  example  :  the  first  Navamsa 
of  Aries  is  Aries  ;  the  first  of  Cancer  is  Cancer,  and  so 
forth. 

The  fifth  Navamsa  of  Taurus  is  Taurus;  of  Leo 
is  Leo  and  so  forth. 


l£  Brihat  Jdlakd.  [  CH.  I. 

The  ninth  Navamsa  of  Gemini  is  Gemini ;  of  Virgo  is 
Virgo,  and  so  forth. 

(ft).  The  following  list  contains  the  Moola  Trikona 
signs  of  the  planets  : 

Planets.  Moola  Trikona  signs. 

Sun.  Leo. 

Moon.  Taurus. 

Mars.  Aries. 

Mercury.  Virgo* 

Jupiter.  Sagittari. 

Venus.  Libra. 

Saturn.  Aquarius. 

15.  The  significations  of  the  1.2  houses  from  the 
rising  sign  (ascendant)  are  respectively  (a  native's)  body, 
family,  brothers,  relations,  sons,  enemies,  wife,  death,  deed 
of  virtue,  avocation,  gain  and  loss  (<?).  The  3rd,  6th,  10th 
and  ]  1th  houses  from  the  ascendant  are  known  as  the 
Upachaya  (improving)  signs,  but  not  so  according  to 
some  (£). 

NOTES. 

(a] .     The  following  is  a  list  of  significations  of  the  seve- 
ral houses  of  the  Zodiac  from  the  ascendant. 
Ascendant  or 

1st  house... Body,  fame,  limbs. 

2nd     „    ...Family,  wealth,  eyes,  speech,  truthfulness, 
3rd     „    ...Brothers,  bravery,  meals. 
4th    „     ...Relations,  education,  mother,  cows,  dwel- 
ling place,  carnage,  comfort. 
5th     „     ...Sons,  intelligence,  previous  karma. 
6th     „     ...Enemies,  kinsmen,   diseases. 
7th    „     ...Wife,  generosity,  respect. 
8th     „     ...Death,  duration  of  life. 
9th     „     ...Deeds  of  virtue,  father,  medicine. 
10th  „     ...Avocation,  knowledge,  clothes, 


CH.  X.  ]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  13 

llth     „     ...Gain,  earning. 

12th     ,,     ...Loss,  bad  deeds,  travels- 

(b)  Garga  and  astrologers  of  his  school  are  of  opinion 
that  the  3rd,  6th,  10th  and  llth  houses  cease  to  be  Upa- 
chaya  places  if  malefic  planets  or  planets  which  are  un- 
friendly to  the  lords  of  these  4  houses  should  either  occu- 
py such  houses  or  aspect  the  same.  But  the  Author  does  not 
agree  with  Garga  and  he  is  supported  in  his  views  by 
Satyacharya  and  by  Yavaueswara. 

16.  The  twelve  signs  of  the  Zodiac  beginning   from 
the  ascendant  are  known  technically  as  the    signs   of  (1) 
Kalpa  (power),  (2)  Sva  (wealth),  (3)  Vikrama  (prowess),  (4) 
Graha  (dwelling  place),   (5)    Pratibha    (intelligence),   (6) 
Kshata   (wound),   (7)    Manmatha    (desire),   (8)  Randhra 
(hole),  (9)  Guru  (father  or  preceptor),  (10)  Mana  (respecta- 
bility),  (ll)Bhava   (acquisition),   (12)Vyaya   (loss).  The 
4th   and   5th  houses  are  known  as  Chaturasra  signs.  The 
7th    house    is  known  as  Dyuna   and    the    10th   house  is 
known  as  Agua. 

NOTES. 

A  number  of  astrological  terms  is  defined  in  this 
stanza. 

17.  The  1st,  4th,  7th  and  10th  houses  are  known  as 
Kantaka  or  Kendra  or  Chatushtaya  houses  (quadrants  or 
angles).     If  these   four   houses    should   happen    to  be 
biped,  aquatic,  centiped  and  quadruped  respectively,  they 
then  possess  strength. 

NOTES. 

The  biped  signs  are :  Gemini,  Libra,  Virgo,  the  first 
half  of  Sagittari  and  Aquarius. 

The  aquatic  signs  are :  Cancer,  the  first  half  of 
Capricorn  and  Pisces. 

The  only-  centiped  sign  is  Scorpio. 


1*  tirihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  ±. 

The  quadruped  signs  are  Aries,  Taurus,  Leo,  the 
second  half  of  Sagittari  and  the  first  half  of  Capricorn. 

18.  The  houses  next  to  the  angles  are  known  as 
Panapara  houses  and  those  next  to  them  are  known  as 
Apoklima  houses.  The  4th  house  is  known  as  Hibuka, 
Ambu,  Sukha  and  Vesma.  The  7th  house  is  known  as 
Jamitra.  The  5th  house  is  known  as  Trikona.  The 
10th  house  is  known  as  Meshoorana  and  Karma. 

NOTES. 

Panapara  and  Apoklima  are  Greek  terms. 

The  Panapara  houses  are  the  2nd,  5th,  8th  and 
llth  houses. 

The  Apoklima  houses  are  the  3rd,  6th,  9th  and  12th 
houses. 

19.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  or  Jupiter  or  Mer- 
cury should  either  occupy  it  or  aspect  it.  the  ascendant 
(Lagna)  would  become  powerful  and  not  by  other 
planets.  The  Keudra  signs  are  naturally  powerful,  (a) 
The  biped  signs  are  powerful  during  the  day,  the 
quadruped  signs  at  night,  and  the  centiped  signs  at 
sunrise  and  at  sunset.  The  Mana  (measurement),  (fr)  of 
the  first  six  signs  from  Aries  are  20,  24,  28,  32,  36,  and  40 
respectively;  and  those  of  the  next  six  signs  are  40, 36,  32, 
28,  24,  and  20  respectively.  The  3rd  house  is  known  as 
Duschikya  and  the  9th  as  Tapas  and  Tritrikona. 

NOTES. 

(a).  It  therefore  follows  that  Panapara  houses  are 
less  powerful  than  the  Kendras,  and  Apoklima  houses 
are  the  weakest  houses  of  all.  Of  the  4  Kendras  again, 
the  biped  signs  are  powerful  in  the  first  Kendra,  the 
quadruped  sign  in  the  10th  Kendra,  the  centiped  sign  in 
the  7th  Keudra  and  the  aquatic  sign  in  the  4th  Keudra. 

(£),    This  is  used  in  Stanza  28,  Ch,  V. 


CH.  II.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  I5 

20.  The  twelve  signs  beginning  from  Aries  are  res- 
pectively (Aries)  red,  (Taurus)  white,  (Gemini)  of  the 
color  of  the  parrot,  (Cancer)  of  the  color  of  Patali 
(trumpet  flower),  (Leo)  black  white,  (Virgo)  variegated 
in  color,  (Libra;  black,  (Scorpio)  of  gold  color,  (Sagittari) 
of  the  color  of  the  husk  of  paddy,  (Capricorn)  white  red, 
(Aquarius)  of  ihe  color  of  Mongoose,  and  (Pisces)  of  the 
color  offish.  The  signs  are  known  asPlava  (a)  (depressed) 
in  the  direction  of  their  lords.  The  2nd  house  to  that 
occupied  by  the  Sun  is  known  as  Vesi. 

NOTES. 

(a).     For  the  use  of  this  vide  stanza  21,  Ch.  V. 

CHAPTER  II. 

Definitions  and  Elementary  Principles  continued. 
(Planetary) 

1.  To  the   Kalapurusha,   the   Sun  is  the  soul,   the 
Moon  is  the  mind,  Mars  is  strength,    Mercury  is  speech, 
Jupiter  is  knowledge    and    health,    Venus  is  desire,  and 
Saturn  is  sorrow.     Of  the  planets,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon 
are  kings,  Mars  is  general;  Mercury    is  the    first  prince, 
Jupiter  and  Venus  are  counsellors  and  Saturn  is  servant. 

2.  Heli    is    the   Sun ;    Seetharasmi    is   the   Moon ; 
Hemna,  Vit,  Gna,  Bodhana  and  Induputra  (son  of  Moon) 
are    the    names   of  Mercury;    Ara,    Vakra,     Kruradrik, 
Avaneya   (son   of  earth)    are    the  names  of  Mars ;  Kona, 
Manda,  Suryaputra  (son  of  the  Sun)  and  Asita  (the  black 
planet)  are  the  names  of  Saturn. 

3.  Jeeva,  Angirasa,  Suraguru  (the   preceptor  of  the 
Devas),    Vachasampati,    Ijya   are  the  names  of  Jupiter ; 
Sukra,    Bhrigu,    Bhrigusuta,    Sita    (the    white    planet), 
Asphujit,    are   the   names   of   Venus;  Tama   (darkness), 
Agu    and    Asura   are    the   names   of  Rahu  (the  Moon's 
ascending  node) ;  Sikhi  is  the  name  of  Ketu  (the   Moon's 


1-6  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  II. 

descending  node).  Terms  synonymous  with  the  above 
should  also  be  accepted  (as  the  names  of  the  several 
planets1. 

4.  The  Sun  is  of  a  red  and   dark-brown    color  ;  the 
Moon  is  white;  Mars  is  not  of  a  tall    figure    and   is  both 
red  and  white ;  Mercury    is  green   like   the   color   of  the 
bent  grass;  Jupiter  is  yellow  like  molten  gold;  Venus   is 
neither  very  white  nor  very  black,  and  Saturn  is  black. 

NOTES. 

The  color  of  a  person  will  be  that  of  the  planet  most 
powerful  at  the  time  of  his  birth. 

5.  The  Sun  presides  over  copper   color;   the  Moon 
over  white   color;    Mars   over   red   color;    Mercury  over 
green  color;  Jupiter   over  yellow    color;    Venus   over   a 
mixture  of  various  colors  ;  and  Saturn  over  black  color,  (a} 

The  Sun  is  Agni ;  the  Moon  is  Varuna ;  Mars  is 
Subrahmanya ;  Mercury  is  Vishnu  ;  Jupiter  is  Indra ; 
Venus  is  Indrani  (Indra's  wife) ;  and  Saturn  is  Brahma,  (b) 

The  Sun  pesides  over  east ;  Venus,  south-east ; 
Mars,  south  ;  Rahu,  south-west ;  Saturn,  west ;  the  Moon, 
north-west ;  Mercury,  north  ;  Jupiter,  north-east,  (c) 

The  waning  Moon,  the  Sun,  Mars,  Saturn  and 
Mercury  when  in  conjunction  with  any  of  these,  are 
malefic  planets,  (d) 

NOTES. 

(a).  These  are  useful  in  ascertaining  the  color  of 
stolen  articles  and  in  determining  the  color  of  the 
flowers  to  be  used  in  the  worship  of  the  planets. 

(b}.  From  the  powerful  planet  at  the  time  of  one's 
birth,  it  can  be  ascertained  which  particular  Deva,  a  per- 
son would  worship. 

(c  .  These  are  useful  in  determining  the  position  of 
the  entrance  of  the  deli  very  room  of  a  woman  and  in  dis- 
covering the  direction  of  escape  of  thieves. 


CH.  II.]  Brihat  JdtaM.  17 

(d).  Jupiter,  Venus,  and  Mercury  when  in  conjunction 
with  either  of  these,  are  benefic  planets. 

f>.  Mercury  and  Saturn  are  hermaphrodite  planets  (a), 
the  Moon  and  Venus  are  female  planets,  and  the  rest  (b) 
are  male  planets.  Mars  is  fire  ;  Mercury  is  earth  j  Jupiter 
is  akas  (ether) ;  Venus  is  water  and  Saturn  is  air.  (£) 

NOTES. 

(0).  Mercury  is  female  hermaphrodite  and  Saturn  is 
male  hermaphrodite. 

(3).  That  is,  the  Sun,  Mars  and  Jupiter  are  male 
planets. 

(c).     Also  the  Sun  is  fire  and  the  Moon  water. 

7.  Venus  and  Jupiter  are  Brahmins;  Mars    and  the 
Sim  are  Kshatriyas  ;   the  Moon   is  a  Vaisya  ;  Mercury  is 
a  Sudra  and  Saturn  is  a  Chandala. 

The  Moon,  the  Sun  and  Jupiter  are  of  Satwaguna 
(good  temper)  ;  Mercury  and  Venus  are  of  Kajoguna  (pas- 
sionate temper) ;  Mars  and  Saturn  are  of  Tamoguna(dark 
temper). 

8.  The  Sun  has   somewhat  yellow  eyes,    is   of  the 
height   of   the  length    of  the  two  arms  stretched  out,  of 
bilious  nature  and  with  very  little  hair  on  his  head. 

The  Moon  has  a  thin  and  a  round  body,  is  of  an  exceed- 
ingly windy  and  phlegmatic  nature,  is  learned  and  has  a 
soft  voice  and  beautiful  eyes. 

9.  Mars  has  sharp  and  cruel  eyes  and  a  young  body, 
is  generous,  of  bilious  nature,  of  unsteady  mind,  and  has 
a  narrow  middle. 

Mercury  has  an  impediment  in  his  speech,  is  fond 
ofjoke,  and  is  of  a  bilious,  win^y  and  phlegmatic 
nature. 

10.  Jupiter  has  a  big  body,    (a)   yellow    hairs    and 
eyes,  high  intellectual  powers,  and  a  phlegmatic   nature 

3 


18  Brihal  Jdlakd.  [Cn.  II. 

Venus  leads  a  comfortable  life,  has  a  beautiful  body, 
fair  eyes,  a  windy  and  phlegmatic  nature,  and  black  cur- 
ling hairs. 

NOTES. 

(a).  Jupiter  is  the  biggest  of  all  planets,  and  the 
ancient  Hindus  were  aware  of  this  centuries  ago. 

11.  Saturn  is  lazy,  has  eyes  of  gold  color,  a  thin  and 
tall  body,  large  teeth,  stiff  hair,  and  is  of  a  windy  nature. 

Saturn  is  strong  in  muscles,  the  Sun  in  bones,  the 
Moon  in  blood,  Mercury  in  skin,  Venus  in  semen,  Jupi- 
ter in  flesh,  and  Mars  in  the  marrow  of  the  bones. 

12.  The  Sun  presides  over  the  place  of  worship  ;  the 
Moon  over  wells;  Mars  over  the  fire  place;  Mercury  over 
play  grounds ;  Jupiter  over   the  store  room  ;  Venus  over 
bed  room,  and   Saturn    over    places  where   sweepings  are 
gathered. 

The  garment  of  the  Sun  is  of  thick  thread  ;  that  of 
the  Moon  is  new;  that  of  Mars  is  partly  burnt;  that  of 
Mercury  is  wet;  that  of  Jupiter  is  somewhat  used  ;  that 
of  Venus  is  strong ;  and  that  of  Saturn  is  torn. 

The  Sun  presides  over  copper  ;  the  Mcon  over  gems  ; 
Mars  over  gold  ;  Mercury  over  brass  ;  Jupiter  over  silver; 
(a)  Venus  over  pearls  ;  and  Saturn  over  iron. 

When  either  Saturn  is  in  the  ascendant  or  when  his 
Drekkana  is  rising,  the  season  denoted  is  Sisira — January 
and  February. 

When  either  Venus  is  in  the  ascendant,  or  when  his 
Drekkana  is  rising,  the  season  denoted  is  Vasanta 
(Spring) — March  and  April. 

Similarly,  in  the  case  of  the  Sun  or  Mars,  the  season 
denoted  is  Greeshma  (Summer) — May  and  June.  In  the 
case  of  the  Moon,  the  season  is  Varsha — July,  and  August 
In  the  ca,se  of  Mercury  the  season  is  Sarat  (Autumn)^ 


CH.  If.]  Di'ihat  Jdiakd.  13 

September  and  October.     And  in  the    case  of  Jupiter  the 
season  is  Hemauta  (Winter) — November  and  December. 

NOTES. 

(a).  When  Jupiter  is  in  hisjiouse,  he  presides  over 
gold. 

13.  All  the  planets  aspect   the  3rd  and  10th  houses 
with  a  quarter  sight;  the  5th  and  9th   houses  with  half  a 
sight,  the  4th    and    8th    honses  with    three-quarters  of  a 
sight,  and  the    7th    house  with    a  full  sight  ;  but  Saturn 
aspects  the  3rd  and  10th  houses  with  a  full  sight  ;  Jupiter 
aspects  the    5th    and    9th    houses    with  a  full  sight,  and 
Mars  aspects  the  4th  and  8th  houses  with  a  full  sight. 

NOTES. 

Suppose  A  to  be  a  point  in  the  ecliptic  occupied  by  an 
aspecting  planet;  divide  the  ecliptic  into  12  equal  parts  of 
30°  each,  beginning  from  A.  So  that  the  12  points  of  divi- 
sion will  be  those  respectively  marked  by,  A>30°,  60°,  90°, 
120°,  150°,  180°,  210°,  240°,  270°,  300°,  and  330°  and 
for  purposes  of  planetary  aspects,  these  points  are  respec- 
tively the  middle  points  of  the  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  &c.,  to 
12th  houses.  So  that  a  planet  at  A  aspects  with  a  quarter 
sight  the  middle  points  of  the  3rd  and  10th  houses,  i.  e.,  the 
points  marked  60°  and  270°  respectively;  similarly  it 
aspects  with  a  half  sight  points  marked  120°  and  240°  •• 
with  there-quarters  of  a  sight  points  marked  90°  and 
210°;  and  with  a  full  sight  point  marked  180°.  The 
aspects  extend  to  1 5°  on  either  side  of  the  points  noted 
above.  The  same  remark  applies  to  the  special  aspects 
of  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Saturn. 

14.  The  Sun  indicates  six  months  ;   the    Moon   two 
Ghatikas  or  forty-eight   minutes  ;  Mars   a  day;  Mercury 
two  mouths  ;  Jupiter  a  month ;  Venus  4a   fortnight ;   and 
Saturn  a  year. 


20  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  ll- 

The  Sun  presides  over  pungent  flavor ;  the  moon  over 
salt  flavor  ;  Mars  over  acerbity  ;  Mercury  over  mixed 
flavor  ;  Jupiter  over  sweetness;  Venus  over  sourness;  and 
Saturn  over  bitterness. 

15.  According  to  some  Jupiter  is  the  friend  of  the 
Sun  ;  Jupiter  and  Mercury  are  the  friends  of  the  Moon  ; 
Venus  and  Mercury  are  the  friends  of  Mars.  The  Moon, 
Mars,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn  are  the  friends  of  Mer- 
cury. The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mercury,  Venus  and  Saturn, 
are  the  friends  of  Jupiter.  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and 
Saturn  are  the  friends  of  Venus.  Mercury,  Jupiter  and 
Venus  are  the  friends  of  Saturn  («}.  But  according  to 
Satyacharya,  a  planet's  friends  are  the  lords  of  the  2nd 
12th,  5th,  9th,  8th,  and  4th  houses  from  his  Moolatrikona 
sign  as  well  as  the  lord  of  the  exaltation  sign  of  such 
planet,  provided  they  do  not  conflict  with  the  lords  of  the 
remaining  houses,  (b) 

NOTES. 

(a).     The  other  planets  are  the  enemies. 

(<5).  The  same  may  be  expressed  otherwise  :  the  lords 
of  the  remaining  houses  are  the  foes  of  a  planet  provided 
they  do  not  conflict  with  the  lords  of  the  seven  houses 
described  above.  Putting  the  two  together  we  get  the 
following  results  : 

(1)  Those  lords  of  the  seven  houses  who  may  not  at 
the   same   time   be  the  lords  of  the  remaining  houses  are 
the  friends  of  the  particular  planet. 

(2)  Those  lords  of  the  latter  houses  who  may  not   at 
the  same  time  be  the  lords   of  the  former  houses   are   the 
foes  of  the  particular  planet. 

(3)  And  those  who  may  be  the    lords   of  both   are 
neither  the  friends  nor  the  foes  of  the  particular  planet. 

Following  the  above  rule,  the  author  himself  gives 
for  each  planet,  his  friends,  foes,  and  neutrals  in  the  fol- 
lowing two  staujjas,  (Vide  note  at  the  end  of  stanza  17), 


Cn.  li]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  2l 

16.  Saturn  and  Venus  are  the  enemies  of  the   Sun, 
Mercury  is  his  neutral,  and  the  rest  are  his  friends. 

The  Sun  and  Mercury  are  the  friends  of  the  Moon 
and  the  rest  are  her  neutrals,  (a) 

The  Sun,  the  Moon,  and  Jupiter  are  the  friends  of 
Mars ;  Mercury  is  his  enemy,  and  Venus  and  Saturn  are 
his  neutrals. 

The  Sun  and  Venus  are  the  friends  of  Mercury  ;  the 
Moon  is  his  enemy,  and  the  rest  are  his  neutrals. 

17,  Mercury  and  Venus  are  the  enemies  of  Jupiter  ; 
Saturn  is  his  neutral,  and  the  rest  are  his  friends. 

Mercury  and  Saturn  are  the  friends  of  Venus  ;  Mars 
and  Jupiter  archer  neutrals,  and  the  rest  are  her  enemies. 

Venus  and  Mercury  are  the  friends  of  Saturn  ;  Jupi- 
ter is  his  neutral,  and  the  rest  are  his  enemies,  (b} 

Thus  have  I  stated  over  again  at  length  the  views  of 
Satyacharya  regarding  the  natural    or  permanent  friend- 
ship ,  enmity,  and  neutrality  among  planets. 

NOTES. 

(a).     The  Moon  has  no  enemies. 

(b).  We  will  now  examine  how  the  author  arrived  at 
the  three  results  given  in  the  last  two  stanzas.  Take  the 
case  of  the  Sun.  His  Moolatrikona  house  is  Leo.  (Vide 
stanza  14.)  The  2nd,  12th,  5th,  9th,  8th,  and  4th  houses 
from  Leo  are  respectively  Virgo,  Cancer,  Sagittari,  Aries, 
Pisces  and  Scorpio.  The  exaltation  house  of  the  Sun  is 
Aries.  The  lords  of  all  these  houses  are  respectively  Mer- 
cury, the  Moon,  Jupiter,  Mars,  Jupiter,  and  Mars  or  drop- 
ping the  repetitions,  we  get,  Mercury,  the  Moon,  Jupiter 
and  Mars.  Of  the  seven  houses,  Aries  being  repeated,  we 
have  been  dealing  with  only  six  houses.  The  other  six 
houses  of  the  Zodiac  are  Leo,  Libra,  Capricorn,  Aquarius, 
Taurusand  Gemini,  Their  lords  are  respectively  the 


22  Brthat  Jdtakd.  [Cn  it 

Venus,  Saturn,  Saturn,  Venus  and  Mercury,  or  dropping  the 
repetitions,  and  also  the  Sun, we  get  Venus,  Saturn  and  Mer- 
cury. We  will  compare  these  with  the  lords  of  the  former 
set  of  houses,  viz,  Mercury,  Moon,  Jupiter,  and  Mars.  We 
find  that  Mercury  is  the  only  planet  occuring  in  both  the 
lists.  It  is  therefore  the  Sun's  neutral.  Venus  and  Sa- 
turn are  his  enemies,  and  the  Moon,  Mars  and  Jupiter  are 
his  friends.  And  so  with  the  other  planets. 

1 8.  Planets  that  occupy  the  2nd,  12th,  llth,  3rd,  10th 
and  4th  houses  from  a  particular  planet  are  the  friends  of 
that  planet  and  the  rest  are  his  enemies/^  the  time.    Ac- 
cording to  some,  the  planets  that   occupy   the  exaltation 
sign  of  a  particular  planet  are  also  the  friends  of  that  pla- 
net. Combining  together  the  three  natural  relations  (vide 
stanzas  16  and  17)  with  the  two  relations/0/'  the  time,  now 
given,  we  may  determine  the  five  following  relations  exist- 
ing between   planets  :     Atimitra    (great   friend),    Mitra 
(friend),   Sama   (neutral),   Satru   (enemy)   and   Atisatru 
(great  enemy). 

NOTES. 

Stanzas  16  and  17  relate  to  the  three  relations  of  per- 
manent friendship,  neutrality  and  enmity.  Stanza  18  re- 
lates to  the  two  relations  of  temporary  friendship  and  en- 
mity. Combining  the  two  together  we  get  the  following 
results. 

Under  Stanzas  Under  Stanza  Result, 

16.  &17.  18. 

Mitra.          +  Mitra.  Atimitra. 

Satru.         4-  Satru.  Atisatru. 

Sarna.          +  Mitra.  Mitra. 

Saina.          +  Satru.  Satru. 

Mitra.          +  Satru.  Sama* 

19.  A   planet  has    sthandbala   (local  or    positional 
strength)  when  in  his  exaltation  sign,  (a}  friendly  sign, 


CH.  II.]  Brihat  Jdtadk.  23 

(6)  Mulatrikona,  (c)  in  his  Navainsa,  (tZ)  or  iu  his  Kshetra, 
house,  (e) 

Mercury  and  Jupiter  are  powerful  when  in  the  East 
(f )  or  rising  sign.  The  Sun  and  Mars  are  powerful  when 
on  the  South  or  tenth  sign.  Saturn  is  powerful  when  in 
the  West  or  setting  sign,  and  the  Moon  and  Venus  are 
powerful  when  in  the  North  or  the  4th  sign  (Patala). 

NOTES. 

(«)     vide        I.  13. 

(b)      „  II.  10  to  13. 

(')       „  I-  14. 

(d)      „  I.    6. 

(')       „  I-    6- 

For  the  relative  values  of  these  places,  vide  stanza 
11  Ch.  XX. 

(/)  That  is :  they  then  possess  Dikbala.  According  to 
some  commentators,  Mercury  and  Jupiter  are  powerful 
when  in  the  Eastern  triangular  signs  of  Aries,  Leo  and 
Sagittari.  The  Sun  and  Mars  are  powerful  when  in  the 
Southern  triangular  signs  of  Taurus,  Virgo  and  Capricorn. 
Saturn  is  powerful  when  in  the  Western  triangular  signs 
of  Gemini,  Libra  and  Aquarius,  and  the  Moon  and  Venus 
are  powerful  when  in  the  Northern  triangular  signs  o; 
Cancer,  Scorpio  and  Pisces.  For  the  Dikbala  of  the  signs, 
•vide  note  (#),  to  stanza  19.  Ch.  I. 

20.  The  Sun  and  the  Moon  possess  Cheshtabala 
(motional  strength)  when  in  any  of  the  six  signs  from 
Makara.  The  other  planets  possess  it  when  in  their  retro- 
grade motion  or  when  in  conjunction  with  the  Moon 
(Samagama)  or  when  in  their  greatest  brilliancy  (a')  or 
when  they  happen  to  be  the  northern  planets  in  planetary 
conjunction  (Yudha). 


24  Brihat  JdtaM.  [On.  in. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Mercury  is  so  when  about  29°  apart  from  the 
Sun,  Venus  when  about  4?7°  apart  from  the  Sun  and  the 
other  planets  when  in  opposition  to  the  Sun. 

21.  The  Aloon,  Mars  and  Saturn  possess  Kalabala 
(temporal  strength)  at  night  ;  Mercury  possesses  it  both 
day  and  night  ;  and  the  other  planets  (a)  possess  it  by  day. 
The  malefic  planets  possess  it  during  the  waning  Moon 
(Krishna  paksha)  and  the  benefic  planets  during  the  wax- 
ing moon  (Snkla  paksha).  Also  each  planet  has  it  in  his 
year,  month,  day  and  hour. 

Saturn,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus,  the  Moon  and 
the  Sun  are  each  naturally  stronger  than  the  immediately 
preceding  planet  in  the  order  stated  (£>). 

NOTES. 

(a).  That  is  the  Sun,  Jupiter  and  Venus.  For  the 
Kalabala  of  the  signs,  vide  stanza  19.  Chapter  I. 

(6).  Such  strength  is  known  as  Naisargilcabala. 

Before  applying  the  astrological  truths  contained  in 
the  subsequent  pages,  the  reader  must  consider  the  strength 
or  weakness  of  each  house,  of  its  Lord,  and  of  the  planets 
occupying  or  aspecting  such  house.  For  these  and  various 
other  purposes,  it  will  not  do  to  have  a  mere  Rasi  Chakra 
or  Navamsa  Chakra  to  represent  roughly  the  planetary 
positions.  The  actual  longitudes  (sphnta)  of  the  planets 
and  of  Lagna  from  Revati  should  be  known. 


CHAPTER  III- 
On  Animal  and  Vegetable  Horoscopy. 

1.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  (a),  the  malefic  planets  (<5) 
be  powerful  (c),  the  benefic  planets  (d)  weak,  and  one  of  the 
hermaphrodite  planets  (e)  either  be  in  one  of  the  Kendras 
(angles)  (/)  or  aspect  the  Lagna  (ascendant) ;  the  creature 


CH.  III.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  25 

born  will  be  that  indicated  by  the  particular  Dwadasamsa 
(g)  which  the  Moon  might  then  occupy  (h). 

NOTES. 

(a)  Or  at  the  time  of  query,  adds  the  Commentator. 

(b)  For  the  malefic  planets,  vide  II.  5. 

(c}  For  the  strength  of  the  planets,  vide  II.  19,  20  &  21. 

(d)  For  the  beuefic  planets,  vide  II.  5. 

(e)  For  the  hermaphrodite  planets,  vide  II.  6. 

(f)  For  the  Kendras  or  angles,  vide  I.  17. 

(g)  For  the  Dwadasamsa,  vide  I.  6. 

(7i)  For  instance,  suppose  at  the  time  of  birth,  the 
Moon  occupies  the  21°  of  Leo.  As  a  Dwadasamsa  contains 
2|  degrees,  the  21°  of  Leo  is  the  ninth  Dwadasamsa  of 
Leo.  As  the  names  of  the  Dwadasamsas  of  Leo  begin 
from  Leo,  the  ninth  Dwadasamsa  is  that  of  Pisces.  The 
creature  born  will  therefore  be  a  fish. 

Besides,  the  number  of  the  offspring  will  be  that 
represented  by  trie  number  of  Dwadasamsas  passed  over  by 
the  Moon.  Of  these,  the  number  of  odd  Dwadasamsas 
will  represent  the  male  issue  and  the  number  of  even 
Dwadasamsas  will  represent  the  female  issue  ;  the  num- 
ber that  will  perish  immediately  after  birth  will  be  that  of 
the  number  of  Dwadasamsas  that  might  be  occupied  by 
the  malefic  planets  or  that  might  otherwise  become  weak. 

N.B. — The  reader  will  in  future  kindly  refer  to  the 
table  of  reference  published  after  the  Introduction  for  the 
meaning  of  any  term. 

2.  If  the  malefic  planets  occupy  their  Navamsas  and 
be  powerful,  if  the  benefic  planets  be  not  in  their  own 
Navamsas  and  be  weak  and  if  (at  the  same  time)  the 
Lagna  (rising  sign)  be  other  than  human  (a),  the  birth 
will  be  that  of  a  lower  animal  as  before  (6). 


26  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  III. 

NOTES. 

(a]  The  rising  sign  should  be  other  than    Gemini, 
Virgo,  1/ibra,  the  second  half  of  Sagittari  and  Aquarius. 

(6)  That  is,  the  creature   will  be  that  represented  by 
the  Dwadasamsa  which  the  Moon  might  then  occupy. 

3.  In  the  case   of  quadrupeds,  Aries  is  the  head ; 
Taurus,  the  face  and  neck ;  Gemini,  the  forelegs  and  shoul- 
ders ;  Cancer,  the  back ;  L,eo,  the  breast ;  Virgo,  the  sides ; 
Libra,  the  belly  ;  Scorpio,  the  anus ;   Sagittari,   the  hind 
legs  ;  Capricorn,  the  penis  or  testicle  ;  Aquarius,  the  but- 
tocks and  Pisces,  the  tail. 

NOTES. 

In  the  case  of  birds,  the  wings  stand  for  the  forelegs. 
This  stanza  will  also  enable  us  to  ascertain  the  color  or 
wounds  of  particular  parts  of  the  creature's  body. 

4.  If  there  be  any  planet   in    the   rising   sign,   the 
color  of  the  creature  will  be  that  of  the  planet  itself;  if  not, 
the  color    will   be  that   of  the    planet    aspecting    the 
rising  sign  ;   and  if  no  planets  aspect  the  rising  sign  the 
color  will  be  that  of  the  rising   Navamsa.    The  number 
and  variety  of  colors  will  be  that  of  the  planets  occupying 
or  aspecting  the  rising  sign  (a).    The   number    of  stripes 
on  the  back  of  the  creature   will  be   that  of  the   planets 
occupying  the  seventh  house. 

NOTES. 

(a]  The  color  of  the  powerful  planet  will  predominate. 

5.  If  a  Pakshidrekkana  (a)  or  a  Charanavamsa  (&) 
or  a  Navamsa  of  Mercury  (c)  should  rise  and  be  occu- 
pied by  powerful  planets,  the  creature  born  would  be  a 
land  bird  if  the  rising  Drekkana  or  Navamsa,  be  either 
occupied  or  aspected  by  Saturn  ;  and  a  water  bird  if  it  be 
pccupied  or  aspected  by  the  Moon, 


CH.  III.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  27 

NOTES- 

(a)  These  are  the  second  Drekkana  or  degrees  from 
11  to  20  of  Gemini,  the  first  Drekkana  or  degrees  from  1  to 
10  of  Leo,  the  second  Drekkana  of  Libra  and  the  first 
Drekkana  of  Aquarius. 

(6)  Chara  or  movable  Navarnsas  go  by  the  same 
names  as  the  Chara  or  movable  signs. 

(c)  The  Navarnsas  of  Mercury  are  those  of  Gemini 
and  Virgo.- 

6.  If  the  rising  sign,  the  Moon,  Jupiter  and  the  Sun 
should  be  weak,  they  indicate  the  birth  of  a  tree  ;  such 
tree  will  be  either  a  land  tree  or  a  water  tree  according  as 
the  rising  Navamsa  is  one  of  land  or  of  water  («).  The 
number  of  trees  will  be  the  number  of  signs  by  which 
the  lord  of  the  ascendant  Navamsa  has  receded  from  the 
rising  sign  (6). 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  water  Navarnsas  are  those  of  Cancer,  the 
second  half  of  the  Navamsa  of  Makara,  and  the  Navamsa 
of  Pisces.  The  other  Navamsas  are  those  of  land. 

(6)  For  instance  :  suppose  the  10°  of  Leo  to  rise,  the 
rising  Navamsa  is  that  of  Gemini  ;  it  is  a  land  Navamsa. 
The  tree  will  therefore  be  one  growing  on  dry  land*  The 
lord  of  Gemini  is  Mercury,  Suppose  Mercury  to  occupy 
Sagittariat  the  time.  From  Leo  to  Sagittari  is  5  signs. 
The  number  of  trees  will  therefore  be  5. 

Again,  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  Navamsa  should 
be  either  in  the  exaltation  sign  or  retrograde  in  his  motion, 
the  number  already  obtained  should  be  trebled  ;  but  if  he 
should  be  in  his  Vargottamabhaga  or  in  his  own  Navamsa 
or  Sign  or  Drekkana,  such  number  should  be  doubled. 
For  instance  :  i  n  the  instance  cited  above,  if  Mercury  should 
either  be  retrograde  in  motion  or  occupy  his  exaltation 
sign,  namely,  Virgo,the  number,  viz.,  two,  from  Leo  should 


28  &rihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  IV- 

be  trebled.  This  will  give  us  six.  But  if  Mercury  should 
occupy  the  last  Navamsa  of  Libra,  (one  of  his  Navamsas) 
the  number  is  3x2  =  6.  If  he  should  occupy  Gemini,  the 
number  is  11x2  =  22;  and  if  he  should  occupy,  for 
instance,  the  second  Drekkana  of  sign  Taurus,  the  num- 
ber is  2  x  10  =  20. 

7.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendent  Navamsa  be  the  Sun 
(a),  the  tree  will  be  one  strong  within  ;  if  Saturn,  the  tree 
will  be  an  ugly  one  ;  if  the  Moon,  it  will  be  a  milky  tree  ; 
if  Mars,  a  thorny   tree  ;  if  Jupiter,  a  fruit  tree ;  if  Mercury, 
a  fruitless  tree  ;  if  Venus,  a  flower  tree  ;  if  the  Moon  again, 
an  oily  tree  ;  and  if  Mars,  a  tree  of  sour  taste. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  conditions  given  in  the  last  stanza  remaining 
the  same, 

8.  If  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  Navamsa  be  a  beue- 
fic  planet  occupying  a  malefic  sign  (a),  the  tree  will  be  a 
superior  one  growing  on  a  bad  ground  ;  if  otherwise,    the 
reverse  will  be  the  case  (fe)  ;  the  number  of  trees   is   also 
tile  number   of    Navamsas   by    which   the   lord  of  the 
ascendant  Navamsa  has  receded  from  his  Navamsa. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  other  conditions  given  in  stanza  6  remaining 
the  same. 

(6)  That  is,  if  the  lord  of  the  ascendant  Navamsa  be  a 
malefic  planet  occupying  a  benefic  house,  the  tree  will  be 
an  inferior  one  growing  on  a  good  ground. 


CHAPTER  IV. 
On  Nisheka  Kala  or  The  Time  of  Conception, 

1.    The    menses   that  appear  monthly,   because   of 
Mars  and  the  Moon  (a)  bring  about  conception  when  the 


CH.  IV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  29 

Moon  is  in  one  of  the  Amipachaya  signs  (&).  If  the  Moon 
be  otherwise  (c)  and  be  aspected  by  a  benefic  male  planet 
d},  there  will  be  sexual  union  between  a  woman  and  her 
husband. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Menses  appear  in  women  whenever  the  Moon  is 
aspected  by  Mars,  that  is  especially  when  the  Moon  occu- 
pies the  4th,  7th  or  the  8th  house  from  Mars.  In  connec- 
tion with  this  subject  the  author  ofSaravali  says  : 

11  The  Moon  is  water  ;  Mars  is  fire  ;  a  mixture  of 
water  and  fire  is  bile  ;  when  the  bile  mixes  with  the 
blood,,  menstrual  discharge  occurs." 

(6)  If,  when  aspected  by  Mars,  the  Moon  happens 
to  occupy  one  of  the  Amipachaya  signs  in  the  horoscope  or 
nativity  of  the  woman,  at  the  time  of  the  appearance  of 
the  menses,  conception  will  follow.  The  Upachaya  signs 
are  the  3rd,  6th,  10th,  and  the  llth  houses  from  the 
ascendant  ;  and  the  other  signs  are  known  as  Anupa- 
chaya  signs. 

(c)  That  is  from  the  time  the  woman  bathes  on  the 
4th  day,  when  the  Moon  reaches  one  of  the  Upachaya 
houses  in  the  horoscope  or  nativity  of  the  husband. 

(eft  There  will  be  sexual  union  between  the  husband 
and  wife  if  the  Moon  is  aspected  by  Jupiter  when  power- 
ful. The  Commentator  adds  as  follows  : 

lf  If  the  Moon  is  aspected  by  the  Sun,  the  woman 
will  have  sexual  union  with  an  officer  of  the  king ;  if  aspec- 
ted by  Mars,  then  with  a  voluptuary ;  if  aspected  by 
Mercury,  then  with  a  person  of  fickle  mind  j  if  aspected  by 
Venus,  then  with  a  beautiful  person ;  if  aspected  by 
Saturn,  then  with  a  servant ;  and  if  aspected  by  several 
malefic  planets,  the  woman  will  become  a  harlot." 

2<     The  sexual  union  will   be  of  the   nature  of  the 
union  of  creatures  represented  by  the  setting  sign.  Again, 


30  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  IV. 

if  at  the  time  of  sexual  union,  the  setting  sign  be  either 
occupied  or  aspected  by  malefic  planets,  such  union  will' 
be  attended  with  anger,  and  if  by  beuefic  planets,  it  will 
be  attended  with  play  and  laughter. 

NOTES- 

The  Commentator  adds  that  if!  the  setting  sign  be 
occupied  or  aspected  by  both  malefic  and  beuefic  planets 
the  union  will  be  attended  with  both  joy  and  displeasure. 

3.  If,  at  the  time  of  sexual  union,  the  Sun,  the  Moon 
Venus  and  Mars  be  in  their  Navamsas  (a),   or  if  Jupiter 
occupy  the  rising  sign  or  the  5th  or  the  9th   sign  from  it, 
such  union  will  produce  a  child.     To  persons   devoid  of 
virility,   the   above  Yoga   (planetary  positions)  will  be  as 
useless  as  the  rays  of  the  Moon  to  the  blind. 

NOTES- 

(a)  The  Commentator  adds  that  there  would  also  be 
conception  when  these  four  planets  are  not  in  their  Na- 
vamsas, if  the  Sun  and  Venus  should  occupy  the  Upachaya 
signs  in  the  horoscope  of  the  man  and  at  the  same  time 
be  in  their  Navamsas,  or  if  Mars  and  the  Moon  should 
occupy  the  Upachaya  signs  in  the  horoscope  of  the  woman 
and  at  the  same  time  be  in  their  Navamsas. 

4.  If  at  the  time  of  conception,  either  Mars  or  Saturn 
should  occupy  the  seventh  house  from  the  Sun  or  the 
Moon,  the  man  and  his  wife  would  respectively  fall  ill  (a)  • 
but  if  one  of  the  two  planets,   Mars  and  Jupiter,   should 
occupy  the  twelfth  and  the  other  the  second  house  from 
the  Sun  and  the   Moon,  or  if  one  of  the  planets  should 
be  in  conjunction  with  the  Sun  or  the  Moon  and  the  other 
should  aspect  either  the  Sun  or  the  Moon,  the  man  and 
his  wife  will  respectively  meet  with  death  (3). 

NOTES. 

(a)  In  the  month  of  Mars  or  Saturn  as  the  case  may 
be  (vide  Stanza  16). 


CH.  IV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  31 

(6)  In  the  month  of  either  Saturn  or  Mars  whoever  is 
powerful. 

The  Commentator  adds  that  the  two  effects  described 
in  the  Stanza  will  occur  before  and  not  after  the  birth 
of  the  child. 

5.  In  the  case  of  conception  (a)  by  day,  the  Sun  and 
Venus  represent  respectively  the  father   and  the  mother  ; 
and  by  night,  Saturn  and  the  Moon  represent  respectively 
the  father  and  the   mother.     In  the  former  case,  Saturn 
and  the  Moon   represent   respectively  the  paternal  uncle 
and  the  maternal  aunt ;  and  in  the  latter  case  the  Sun  and 
Venus  represent  respectively  the  paternal   uncle  and  the 
maternal  aunt.    If  the  planets  representing  the  father  and 
the   paternal   uncle   should   occupy  the  odd   signs,  or  if 
the  planets   representing  the   mother  and  the   maternal 
aunt  should  occupy  the  even  signs  at  the  time,  then  the 
father  and  paternal  uncle  or  the  mother  and  the  maternal 
aunt  would  be  happy. 

NOTES. 
(a)     Or  birth  according  to  the  Commentator. 

6.  If  at    the   time   of  conception   malefic    planets 
occupy  the  twelfth  house  G/),  and   if  then  the  rising  sign 
be  not  aspected  by  benefic  planets,  or  if  Saturn  occupy  the 
rising  sign  and  be  aspected  by  the  waning  Moon  and  Mars 
(in  either  case)  the  pregnant  woman  will  die  (b). 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  second  house  according  to  certain  Commen- 
tators. 

(b)  Before  delivery  time  according  to  the  Commen- 
tator. 

7.  If  (at  the  time)  either  the  rising  sign  or  the  Moon 
or  both  be  between  malefic   planets  (a)  and  at   the   same 
time  not  aspected   by  the  benefic   planets,  the  pregnant 
woman  will  die  (£. 


32  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  IV. 

NOTES. 

(a)  As  the  malefic  planets  in  the  present  case  can 
only  be  three,  viz.,  the  Sun,  Mars  and  Saturn,  both  the 
rising  sign  and  the  Moon  can  be  between  them  at  the 
same  time,  either  when  they  are  together  or  occupy  two 
alternate  houses.  The  Commentator  adds  that  malefic 
planets  might  occupy  either  the  12th  and  the  2nd  houses 
from  the  ascendant  or  the  Moon  or  both,  or  they  might 
occupy  the  Navamsas  on  either  side. 

(b}  Before  delivery  and  in  the  month  of  the  power- 
ful malefic  planet. 

8.  If  (at  the  time)  malefic  planets  occupy  the  fourth 
house  and  Mars  the  eight  house  from  the  ascendant  or  the 
Moon,  or  again  if  Mars  occupy  the  fourth  house  and  the 
Sun,  the  twelfth  house  from  the  ascendant  and  if  it  be 
the  waning  Moon  at  the  time,  the  pregnant  woman  will 
die. 

9.  If  (at  the  time)  Mars  occupy  the  L,agna  and   the 
Sun  occupy  the  seventh  house,  the  pregnant  woman  will 
suffer  death  from  weapons.     If  the  lord  of  any  month  (0), 
be  afflicted  (£),  the  pregnancy  will  miscarry  in  that  month. 

NOTES. 

(a)  For  the  lords  of  the  several  months  of  pregnan- 
cy (vide  Stanza  16). 

(b]  Suffer  defeat  in  conjunction  or    be  eclipsed   at 
the  time  of  conception. 

10.  If  the  benefic  planets  («)  be  with  the  Moon  or  in 
the  ascendant  0$),  or  if  they  occupy  the  second,   fourth, 
fifth,  seventh,  ninth  and  the  tenth  houses  from  the  Moon 
or  the   ascendant,   there  will  be   safe   delivery,   provided 
malefic  planets  occupy   the  third  or  eleventh  house   from 
the  Moon  or  the  ascendant,  and  the   Moon  or   the  ascen- 
dant is  at  the  same  time  aspected  by  the  Sun  (c), 


CH.  IV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  S3 

NOTES. 

(#)    These  are  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus. 
(3)     Or  both  at  the  same  time. 

(c)  According  to  some  other  reading,  by  Jupiter. 
But  this  is  opposed  to  Saravali. 

11.  If  (a)  the  rising  sign,  the  Sun,  Jupiter  and   the 
Moon  be  powerful  and   occupy  the   odd  (male)  signs   and 
the  odd  Navamsas,  the  issue  will   be  a  male   child  (b)  ;  if 
they  occupy  the  even  (female)  signs  and  the  even  Navani- 
sas,  the  issue  will  be  a  female  child  (c)  ;  if  again,  the  Sun 
and  Jupiter  (d)  occupy  the  odd  signs,  the  issue  will  be  a 
male  child  ;  and  if  the  Moon,  Venus  and   Mars  (e)  occupy 
the  even  signs,  the  issue  will  be  a   female  child.     Also,    if 
the  Sun  and  Jupiter  occupy  the  two  male   double  bodied 
Navamsas  (/)  and  beaspected  by  Mercury,  the  issue   will 
be  male  twins  ;  and  if  Venus   and  Mars   occupy  the    two 
female  double  bodied  Navamsas  (g)  and  be   aspected  by 
Mercury,  the  isssue  will  be  female  twins  (//). 

NOTES. 

(a)  At  the  time  of  conception  or  of  birth  or  of  query 
about  the  one  or  the  other  according  to  the  Commentator. 

(b  &  c}  If  some  of  the  planets  be  in  the  male  and 
some  in  the  female  signs  or  Navamsas,  then  the  sex  of 
the  issue  will  be  that  which  predominates. 

(d  &  c]  The  planets   should  be  powerful  also. 

(/)  These  are  the  Navamsas  of  Gemini  and  Sagit- 
tari. 

(g)     These  are  the  Navamsas  of  Virgo  and  Pisces. 

(//)  The  issue  will  be  male  twins  as  well  as  female 
twins,  if  all  the  four  double  bodied  Navamsas  be  so  occu- 
pied. 

12.  If  (at  the  time)  (/?),  Saturn  occupy  any  of  the  odd 
signs  from  the  rising  sign   (3),   the  issue  will   be  a  male 
child. 

5 


84  Brihat  Jdlakd.  [Cn.  IV 

The  sex  of  the  issue  in  all  the  above  cases  shall  be 
determined  by  the  position  of  the  most  powerful  planet. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Of  conception  or  query  according  to  the  Com- 
mentator. 

(b)  This  Yoga  applies  only  in   the  absence  of  the 
Yoga  mentioned  already. 

N.B. — Yoga  is  a  particular  position  of  one  or  more 
planets  either  relatively  to  one  another,  or  absolutely,  in 
the  ecliptic  or  both. 

13.  If  (at  the  time  of  conception),  the  Moon  and  the 
Sun,  occupying  respectively  any  of  the  even  and  odd  signs, 
aspect  each  other,  or  (2),  if  Saturn  and  Mercury  (occupy- 
ing, respectively  any  of  the  even  and  odd  signs)  aspect  each 
other,  or  (3)  if  Mars  (in  an  odd  sign)  aspect  (or  beaspected 
by)  the  .Sun  in    an   even    sign,    or   (4)  if  the  Moon   and 
L/agna  in  odd  signs  be   aspected   by    Mars    (in   an   even 
sign),  or  (5)  if  Mars  aspect  the  Moon  and   Mercury  occu- 
pying respectively  even  and  odd  signs,   or   (C)  if  Venus, 
L,agua  and   the   Moon  occupy    (male    signs   and)   male 
Navamsas,  the  issue  will   be  a  hermaphrodite. 

NOTES. 

These  Napumsaka  Yogas  take  effect  only  in  the 
absence  of  male  and  female  Yogas. 

14.  If,  when  the  Moon  and  Venus  are  in  even  signs, 
Mercury,  Mars,  Jupiter  and   Lagna  be  in  odd  signs,  or  if 
a  male  planet  aspect   Lagna  and  the   Moon   in  the  even 
signs,  or  if  Mercury,  Mars,  Jupiter  and   L,agna  be  power- 
ful and  occupy  even  signs,  the   issue  will    be  a   male  and 
a  female  child.  Again,  if  L,agna  and  all  the  planets  occupy 
the  Ubhaya  (common)    Navamsas  and    be  aspected    by 
Mercury  in  his  Navamsa,  the  issue  will  be  three  children  : 
Of  these,  two  will  be  male  children  if  the  Navamsa   occu- 


CH.  IV.]  Brihat  Mtakd.  35 

pied  by  Mercury  be  that  of  Gemini,  and  two  will  be 
female  children  if  such  Navamsabe  that  of  Virgo.  Again, 
if,  when  Mercury  occupies  the  Navamsa  of  Gemini,  the 
other  planets  and  Lagna  occupy  the  Navamsas  of  Gemini 
and  Sagittari,  all  the  three  will  be  male  children;  and 
if,  when  Mercury  occupies  the  Navamsa  of  Virgo,  the 
other  planets  and  Lagna  occupy  the  Navamsas  of  Virgo 
and  Pisces,  all  the  three  will  be  female  children. 

15.  If  the  last  Navamsa  of  sign  Sagittari  begin  to 
rise,  if  all  the  planets   occupy  the  Navamsa  of  Sagittari 
and  be   powerful,   and   if  the  rising  sign  be  aspected  by 
powerful    Mercury  and  Saturn,   the  issue    will  be   more 
than  three  children  (a). 

NOTES, 

(a)  That  is  5  or  7  or  10  according  to  the  Commen- 
tator. 

16.  In  the  first  month   of  pregnancy,  the  embryo  is 
formed  ;  in  the  second,  it  becomes  flesh  ;  in  the  third,  the 
limbs  are  formed  ;  in   the  fourth,  the   bones  are  formed  ; 
in  the  fifth,  the  skin  is  formed  ;  in  the  sixth,  the  hair  be- 
gins to  grow  ;  in  the  seventh,  intelligence  is  infused  into 
the  child  (a). 

The  lords  of  the  several  months  from  the  first  to  the 
seventh  are  Venus,  Mars,  Jupiter,  the  Sun,  the  Moon, 
Saturn  and  Mercury  respectively. 

NOTES. 

(a)  In  the  eighth  month,  the  child  begins  to  eat 
through  the  navel  cord.  In  the  ninth  month,  the  child  is 
filled  with  cares,  and  in  the  tenth  month  the  child  is  born. 
The  lord  of  the  8th  month  is  the  lord  of  the  rising  sign 
at  the  time  of  conception.  The  lord  of  the  9th  month  is 
the  Moon,  and  the  lord  of  the  10th  month  is  the  Sun. 
According  to  Yavaneswara,  the  lord  of  the  first  month  is 
Mars  and  that  of  the  second  month  is  Venus, 


36  Brihat  JdtaM.  [CH.  IV. 

There  will  be  miscarriage  of  pregnancy  in  that 
month  whose  lord  happens  to  be  afflicted  at  the  time  of 
conception  ;  but  if  any  of  the  planets  be  of  dim  appear- 
ance, the  fetus  will  simply  suffer  in  the  month  of  the 
particular  planets.  If  the  Sun  be  powerful  the  child  would 
resemble  its  father,  and  if  the  Moon  be  powerful,  the  child 
would  resemble  its  mother.  The  health  and  disposition 
of  the  child  follow  those  of  its  parents  at  the  time  of 
conception. 

17.  If  Mercury  occupy  the  fifth  or  the  ninth  house 
(#)  from  the  rising  sign,  and  if  at  the  same  time  the  other 
planets  be  powerless,  the  face,  the  legs,  and  the  hands  of 
the  child  will  be  doubled.  If  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Taurus 
and  if  malefic  planets  occupy  the  Riksha  Sandhis  (6)  the 
issue  will  be  a  mute  child  ;  but  if  the  Moon  be  aspected 
by  a  benefic  planet,  there  will  be  speech  after  a  long 
time  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  some  Commentators  the  word  Trt- 
kona  in  the  text  is  interpreted  as  Moola-Trikona,  that  is, 
sign  Virgo  here.  But  this  is  opposed  to  the  opinion  of 
Garga. 

(6)  That  is,  the  last  Navamsas  of  the  signs  Cancer, 
Scorpio  and  Pisces. 

(c)  But  if  malefic  planets  aspect  the  Moon>  the  child 
will  never  speak  ;  if  both  malefic  and  benefic  planets 
aspect  the  Moon,  the  effects  will  follow  the  powerful 
planets. 

18.  If  Saturn  and  Mars  occupy  either  the  signs  or 
the  Navamsas  (a)  of  Mercury,  the  issue  Will  be  a  child  born 
with  teeth.  If  Cancer  be  the  rising  sign  and  if  the  Moon 
occupy  it  and  be  aspected  by  Saturn  and  Mars,  the  child 
will  be  humpbacked  ;  if  Pisces  be  the  rising  sign  and  if 
jt  be  aspected  by  Saturn,  the  Moon  and  Mars,  the  child 


CH.  IV.]  .BrihatJdtakd.  37 

will  be  lame.  If  a  malefic  planet  (6)  and  the  Moon  be  in 
any  of  the  last  Navamsas  of  Cancer,  Scorpio  and  Pisces, 
the  child  will  be  born  deaf.  In  all  the  above  Yogas  the 
effects  described  will  occur  only  if  the  several  planets 
are  not  aspected  by  benefic  planets  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  Or  both  the  signs  and  Navamsas  according  to 
some  Commentators. 

(6)  One  of  the  three  planets,  the  Sun,  Mars  and 
Saturn. 

(c)  So  that,  if  the  planets  be  aspected  by  powerful 
benefic  planets  the  effects  will  not  occur. 

19.  If  the  last    Navatnsa  of  Makara    begin   to  rise 
and  if  it  be  aspected    by  Saturn,   the  Moon  and  the  Sun, 
the  issue   will  be  a  dwaif.     If  Mars  occupy   the   rising 
Drekkana   of  the   L,agna  or    the    corresponding     Drek- 
kana  of  the  fifth  house  or  of  the  ninth  house  (a)  the  issue 
will  be  either  without  a  head  or  without  arms  or  without 
legs   respectively,    if  Mars    be  aspected    by  the  Sun,  the 
Moon  and  Saturn. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Some  Commentators  interpret  this  part  of  the 
text  as  follows  :  if  Mars  occupy  the  1st  or  the  2nd  or  the 
3rd  Drekkana  of  a  rising  sign,  &c.  But  this  is  opposed 
to  the  opinion  of  Garga. 

20.  If  Leo  be  the  rising  sign  and  if  it  be  occupied  by 
the  Sun  and  Moon  and  aspected  by  Mars  and  Saturn,  the 
issue  will  be  a  blind  child  («) ;  if  in  the  above  case,  beuefic 
planets  aspect  the  rising  sign,  the  child  will  be  born  with 
a  mote  in  its  eyes.     If  the  Moon  or  the  Sun  occupy   the 
twelfth  house  from   the  rising  sign  (3),  the  child  will  be 
born  blind,  respectively,   of  the  left  or  the  right  eye  (c). 

The  several  Yogas    mentioned    above  (d)    will  not 


38  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  IV. 

wholly  come   to  pass   if  the  planets    of  each   Yoga    be 
aspected  by  benefic  planets. 

NOTES. 

(<?)  According  to  the  Commentator,  if  the  Sun  alone 
occupy  sign  Leo,  and  if  it  be  aspected  by  Mars  and  Saturn, 
the  child  will  be  blind  of  the  right  eye  ;  and  if  the  Moon 
alone  should  occupy  sign  Leo,  and  if  it  be  aspected  by 
Mars  and  Saturn,  the  child  will  be  blind  of  the 
left  eye. 

(&)    At  the  time  of  Nisheka  (conception);  or  of  birth. 

(c)  Provided  the  Sun   or  the   Moon   is   aspected  by 
Mars  and  Saturn  according  to  the  Commentator  Subodhini. 

(d)  That  is  beginning  from  Stanza  17. 

21.  Find  out  the  number  of  the  particular  Dwada- 
samsa  occupied  by  the  Moon  at  the  time  (#)  in  any  Zodi- 
acal sign.  Note  the  Zodiacal  sign  whose  name  the  Dwa- 
dasamsa  bears.  Count  from  the  next  sign  as  many  signs 
as  the  number  of  Dwadasamsas  by  which  the  Moon  may 
have  advanced  in  any  particular  sign.  When  the  Moon 
comes  to  such  last  sign,  the  birth  of  the  child  will  occur. 

Again,  the  birth  will  occur  by  day  or  by  night  accord- 
ing as  the  rising  Navamsa  at  the  time  is  a  day  or  a  night 
Navamsa.  The  hour  of  birth  from  sun-rise  or  sun-set 
may  be  calculated  from  the  portion  of  the  rising  Xavamsa 
that  may  have  risen  above  the  horizon. 

NOTES. 

(a)  At  the  time  of  conception,  or  query  according  to 
the  Commentator. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  purposes  to  discover  the 
time  of  child-birth  from  the  .time  of  conception  or  query. 
Suppose  the  Moon  to  occupy,  say,  the  8th  Dwadasamsa  of 
sign  Aquarius  at  the  time.  This  Dwadasamsa  is  known 
as  the  Dwadasamsa  of  Virgo  (Kauya),  The  sign  next 


CH.  IV.]  Brihal  Jdtakd.  39 

to  sign  Virgo  in  the  Zodiac  is  sign  Libra  (Tula).  As  the 
Moon  occupies  the  8th  Dwadasatnsa  in  sign  Aquarius,  the 
8th  sign  from  Libra  is  sign  Taurus.  The  child  will 
therefore  be  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  sign 
Taurus. 

The  Commentator  adds  that  the  particular  asterism 
which  the  Moon  would  occupy  at  the  time  of  birth  might 
be  discovered  from  the  advance  made  by  her  in  the  parti- 
cular Dwadasamsa  occupied  by  her.  For  instance,  suppose 
the  Moon  to  occupy  the  middle  of  the  8th  Dwadasamsa  in 
Aquarius.  The  middle  of  sign  Taurus  is  in' the  2nd  quarter 
of  star  Rohini  ;  so  that  at  the  time  of  birth  of  the  child 
the  Moon  will  occupy  the  asterism  of  Rohini. 

Again,  if  the  rising  Navamsa,  for  instance,  be  that  of 
Sagittari,  a  night  sign,  the  birth  will  occur  at  night.  The 
time  of  birth  from  sun-set  should  be  calculated  by  propor- 
tion from  the  time  by  which  the  Navamsa  of  Sagittari 
may  have  risen  above  the  horizon — the  period  of  oblique 
ascension  of  the  Navamsa  representing  the  period  of  the 
whole  night. 

The  sex  of  the  issue  can  be  determined  from  stanzas 
11  to  15. 

22.  If  at  the  time  of  conception,  the  Navamsa  of 
Saturn  (a)  begin  to  rise  and  if  Saturn  occupy  the  seventh 
house  from  the  rising  sign,  there  will  be  delivery  after 
three  years  ;  and  in  similar  case  of  the  Moon  (<$)  there  will 
be  delivery  after  twelve  years. 

Which  of  the  several  Yogas  described  in  this  Chapter 
are  applicable  to  the  time  of  birth  also,  shall  be  deter- 
mined on  the  nature  of  such  Yogas  (c\ 

NOTES. 

(a)    That  is  the  Navamsa  of  Makara  or  Kumbha. 
(&)    If  the  Navamsa  of  Cancer  should   begin  to  rise 


40  XrihatJdtitd.  [Cn.  V. 

and  if  the  Moon  should   occupy  the  seventh  house  from 
the  rising  sign. 

(c)  For  instance,  Yogas  relating  to  the  birth  of  chil- 
dren with  extra  or  defective  organs,  are  to  be  taken  to  refer 
as  much  to  the  time  of  birth  as  to  the  time  of  conception. 
As  regards  such  Yogas  as  those  relating  to  the  miscarriage 
of  pregnancy  and  the  like,  they  are  to  be  taken  to  refer  to 
the  time  of  conception  alone. 


CHAPTER  V. 
On    Matters  connected  with  Birth  Time. 

1.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  child  the  rising  sign  be 
not    aspected  by   the    Moon,   the  father  will  not  be  near 
when  the  child  is  born — and  if  in   such  a  case,  the  Sun 
should  occupy  the  9th  or  the  8th  house,  the  father  would  be 
in  a  foreign  country  if  the  house  be  a  movable  sign  ;  in  his 
own  country  if  the  house  be  a  fixed  sign  ;  and  would   be 
returning  to    his  country    if  the   house   be     a    common 
sign. 

2.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,   Saturn  be   in  the  rising 
sign  or  Mars  in  the  setting  sign,  or  the  Moon  between   («) 
Mercury  and  Venus,   the  father  will  not  be  near. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Whether  Mercury  and  Venus  occupy  the  signs 
011  both  sides  of  the  Moon  or  occupy  the  same  sign  as  the 
Moon. 

3.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  be  in  the  Drek- 
kana  of  Mars  (a)  and  if  benefic  planets  be  in  the  2nd  and 
llth  houses   from  the   rising   sign,  the    issue    will  be  a 
serpent.  If  the  sign  (£)of  a  malefic  planet  be  the  ascendant 
sign,  and  if  the  Drekkana  of  Mars  should  then  be  rising,  and 
if  benefic  planets  occupy  the  2nd  and  the  llth  houses  the 


CH.  V.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  41 

issue  will  be  a  child  born  with  a  serpent  coiled  round  its 
body. 

NOTES. 

(a)  These  Drekkanas  of  Mars  are — the  1st  Drekkana 
of  Aries,   the  2nd  of  Cancer,   the   3rd  of  L,eo,   the  1st  of 
Scorpio,   the  2nd  of  Sagittari,  and  the  3rd  of  Pisces. 

(b)  Aries,   Cancer  when   it  is   waning  Moon,  Leo 
and  Scorpio. 

4.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Sun  be  in  a  quadruped 
sign  and  the   other  planets  be   all   powerful   and  in  the 
common  signs,  the  issue  will  be  twins. 

5.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,   Aries,  Leo  or  Taurus   be 
the  rising  sign,   and  if  Saturn  or   Mars  be    in    such  sign, 
the  issue  will   be  a  child    born  with   the   umbilical   cord 
twined  round   the    part  of  body  indicated   by  the   rising 
Navainsa  («). 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  the  Navauisa  of  Aries  be  the  rising  Navatnsa 
at  the  time,  then  round  the  head  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Taurus, 
then,  round  the  face,  and  so  on,  following  the  divisions  of 
the  body  referred  to  in  Stanza  4,  Chapter  I. 

6.  If  Jupiter,  at  the  time  of  birth,  fail  to  aspect  both 
the  ascendant  sign  and  the  Moon  (a)  or  the  Moon  when  in 
conjunction  with  the  Sun,  or  if  the  Moon  be  in  conjunction 
with  the  Sun  when  he  is  accompanied  by  a  malefic  planet, 
the  issue   will  be  an  illegitimate  child. 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  Jupiter  aspect  either  the  one  or  the  other,  the 
child  will  not  be  legitimate. 

According  to  Yavaneswara,  if  either  the  ascendant 
Navainsa  or  theNavamsa  occupied  by  the  Moon  be  that  of 
Jupiter,  the  child  will  not  be  illegitimate. 

According  to  Garga,  if  the  Moon  should  occupy  a  sign 
of  Jupiter,  or  if  she  be  in  conjunction  with  Jupiter  in  any 
6 


42  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  V. 

other  sign,  or  if  the  Moon  be  in  the  Drekkana  or  Navamsa 
of  Jupiter,  the  child  will  not  be  illegitimate. 

7.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  two   malefic    planets    («) 
occupy  one  of  the  malefic  signs  ($)aud  if  such  sign  be  the 
5th,  7th,  or  the  9th  house  from  the  Sun,  the  father  of  the 
child  will  be  in  custody  at  the  time.  If  the  Sun  occupy  a 
movable  sign,  the  father  will  be  so  in  foreign  lands  ;  if  he 
occupy  a  fixed  sign,  the  father  will  be  in  custody  in  his  own 
country ;  and   if  he  occupy   a  common  sign,  the  father 
will  be  so  on  his  way  to  his  native  country. 

NOTES. 

(a)     Mars  and  Saturn. 

(£)  Aries,  Leo,  Scorpio,  Capricorn,  Aquarius,  Can- 
cer when  it  is  waning  Moon,  and  Gemini  and  Virgo  when 
Mercury  is  in  conjunction  with  malefic  planets. 

8.  If  the  Moon  be  full  and  in  Cancer,  if  Mercury  be 
in  the  rising  sign  and  Jupiter  in  the    4th  house,  the  birth 
will  occur  in  a  boat.     Again,  if  the  watery  signs  (a)  begin 
to  rise  and  if  the  Moon  be  in  the  7th  house,  then,  too,  the 
birth  will  occur  in  a  boat. 

NOTES. 

(a)  These  are  Cancer,  the  latter  half  of  Capricorn 
and  Pisces. 

9.  If  a  watery  sign  begin  to  rise,  birth  will  certainly 
occur  on  the  banks  of  waters,  if  (1),  the  Moon  be  also  in  a 
watery  sign,  or  (2),  if  the  Moon  be  full  and  aspect  the  ris- 
ing sign,  or  (3),  if  the  Moon  be   in   the  10th  or  4th  house 
or  in  the  L/agna. 

10.  If  the  Moon  occupy  the  rising  sign  and  if  Saturn 
occupy  the  12th    house    and  be    aspected  by    a    malefic 
planet,  the  birth  will   occur  in  a  prison.     Again,  if  either 
Scorpio  or  Cancer  begin  to   rise  and  be  occupied   by  Sa- 
turn  and  aspected  by    the  Moon,  the  birth  will  occur  in 
a  ditch. 


CH.  V.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  43 

U.  If  a  watery  sign  begin  to  rise  and  if  Saturn 
occupy  it  and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  Sun,  or  the  Moon, 
the  birth  will  occur  respectively  in  a  pleasure  house,  a 
temple  or  sterile  ground. 

12.  If  a  biped  sign  be  rising,  and  if  Saturn  occupy  it 
and  be  aspected  by  Mars,  the  birth  will  be  in  cremation 
ground  ;  if  aspected  by  Venus  and  the  Moon,  the  birth 
will  occur  in  some  beautiful  and  agreeable  spot ;  if  as- 
pected by  Jupiter,  then  in  the  Agnihotra  Sala  (a)  ;  if  as- 
pected by  the  Sun,  then  in  the  King's  palace  or  a  temple 
or  a  cow  shed ;  and  if  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  birth  will 
occur  in  an  artist's  working  room. 

NOTES; 

(a)  A  place  where  the  sacred  fire  is  kept  and 
worshipped. 

.13.  The  birth  will  occur  in  places  (a)  represented 
by  the  rising  sign  or  Navamsa,  whichever  is  powerful. 
If  such  sign  or  Navamsa  be  a  movable  one,  the  birth  will 
occur  in  roads  ;  if  fixed,  then  within  a  building  (3).  If  the 
rising  Navamsa  be  a  Vargottama  one,  the  birth  will  be 
in  the  mother's  own  house. 

NOTES. 

(«)  These  places  are  those  referred  to  in  Stanza  5, 
Chapter  I.  We  will  give  here  the  several  places  appro- 
priate to  the  several  signs  of  the  Zodiac. 

Mesha  represents  the  abodes  (caves)  of  the  sheep, 
mountains,  the  residence  of  an  army,  a  fire  place,  metal 
mines  and  mines  where  precious  stones  are  found. 

Vrishabha  represents  forests,  bottom  of  hills,  places 
frequented  by  the  elephants  and  cattle  and  dwelling  places 
of  the  farmers. 

Mithuna  represents  places  frequented  by  women 
learned  in  music  and  painting  for .  purpose  of  either 
playing  or  carrying  love  messages  to  lovers, 


44  &rihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  V. 

Kataka  represents  rice  fields,  tanks,  sand  banks  and 
places  frequented  by  the  nymphs. 

Simha  represents  forests,  inaccessible  places,  caves, 
mountains  covered  with  forests  and  places  frequented 
by  forest  men. 

Kanya  represents  places  overgrown  with  grass,  wo- 
men's sleeping  apartments,  and  female  schools. 

Tula  represents  customs  houses,  middle  streets, 
bazaars,  roads  leading  to  towns,  market  places,  high 
ground  and  places  where  crops  grow. 

Vrischika  represents  caves,  fortified  towns,  ditches, 
places  where  there  are  poisonous  stones  and  hills, 
snake  holes  and  scorpion  holes. 

Dhanus  represents  good  and  even  places  where  there 
are  horses  or  cavalry  men  or  armed  men,  places  of  sacri- 
ficial fire,  ceremonies  or  where  vehicles  are  kept. 

Makara  represents  rivers,  gardens,  forests,  tanks, 
water  banks  and  ditches. 

Kumbha  represents  places  frequented  by  birds,  by 
women,  by  dealers  in  liquor  or  by  gamblers. 

Meena  represents  temples,  places  frequented  by  the 
Brahmins,  holy  waters,  rivers  and  seast 

(b)  If  both  (fixed  and  movable),  the  birth  would 
occur  in  the  outer  verandah  of  the  house. 

14.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  Mars  and  Saturn  oc- 
cupy a  single  sign,  and  if  the  Sun  or  the  Moon  (a)  occupy 
the  5th  or  the  9th  house  from  them,  the  child  will  be 
deserted  by  its  mother  ;  but  if  the  Sun  or  the  Moon  be 
aspected  by  Jupiter,  the  child,  though  abandoned  by  its 
mother,  will  live  long  and  in  comfort. 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  the  Moon  occupy  the  setting  sign  according 
t6  some  other  reading. 


CH.  V.J  Brihat  Jdtakd.  45 

15.  If  a  malefic  planet  (a]  aspect   the    Moon    in  the 
rising  sign,  Mars  occupying  the  7th  house,  or  if  Mars  and 
Saturn  occupy  the  llth  house  from  the  Moon  when  in  the 
rising  sign  aspected   by   a    malefic  planet    (6)  the   child 
deserted  by  its  mother   will   die.     If  the  Moon    be   also 
aspected  by   a   powerful  benefic  planet,  (c)   the   deserted 
child  will  fall  into  the  hands  of  the   class  of   men    repre- 
sented by  the  aspecting  benefic  planet   and  will   live.     If 
the  aspecting  malefic  planet   be  powerful,  the   deserted 
child  will  fall  into  the  hands  of  others  and  will  perish. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Saturn  or  Mars. 

(b)  The  Sun. 

(c)  If  Jupiter  aspect   the  Moon,  none  of  these  evils 
will  befall  the  child. 

16.  If  a  paternal   planet  be  powerful,  the  birth  will 
occur  in  the  father's  house   (a]  ;  if  a  maternal  planet    be 
powerful,  the  birth  will  occur  in  the  mother's  house  (b)  ; 
if  three  benefic  planets  be  in  their  depression  signs  the 
birth  will  occur  at  the  foot  of  walls,  trees  and  the  like  (c); 
and  if  the  three  planets   occupying    a  single    sign   fail  to 
aspect  the  Lagna  and  the  Moon  also   occupying  a  single 
sign,  the   birth  will  occur  in  a  forest  (<tf), 

NOTES. 

(a)  Or  in  the  house  of  the  paternal  .uncle  or  pater- 
nal aunt. 

(b)  Or  in  the  house     of    the     maternal   uncle   or 
maternal  aunt. 

(c)  The  like: — That  is  near  rivers,   wells,  flower 
gardens  or  hills. 

(d)  So    that,  if  three     planets    occupying  a   single 
house  aspect  the  Lagna  and  the  Moon,  the  birth  will  occur 
in  a  locality  where  crowds  of  people  live» 


46  Briliat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  V. 

17.  If  the  Moon  occupy  the  Navamsa  of  Saturn  or 
the  4th  house  (a)  from  the  Lagna,  or  if  she  be  aspected  by 
Saturn,  or  if  she  occupy  a  watery  Navainsa  (3)  or  the 
same  house  as  Saturn,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a  dark  spot 
(c).  If  three  or  more  planets  be  in  their  Neecha  signs  (d}, 
the  birth  will  occur  on  the  bare  ground  (e).  The  birth 
will  follow  the  manner  in  which  the  rising  sign  reaches 
the  horizon  (/).  If  malefic  planets  occupy  the  4th  or  7th 
house,  from  the  Moon  the  mother  will  suffer  much  from 
travail  (g). 

JfOTES. 

(a)  Yavanachariar  uses  the  word  Kendfa,  meaning 
the  1st,  4th,  7th  and  the  10th  houses. 

(£)  Water  Navamsas  are  those  of  Cancer  and 
Pisces. 

(c)  If  the  Sun    be    powerful  and   be  aspected  by 
Mars,  there  will  be  no  darkness. 

(d)  According  to  Saravali,  if  the  Moon  occupy   the 
Lagna  or  the  4th  house  and  be  in  his  depression  sign,  the 
birth  will  also  occur  on  the  bare  ground. 

(e)  On  ground  covered  with  straw   according  to  the 
Commentator. 

(/)  That  is,  if  the  sign  be  one  that  rises  with  its 
head,  then  the  head  of  the  child  will  appear  first ;  if  the 
sign  be  one  that  rises  with  its  leg,  the  leg  of  the  child 
will  appear  first ;  and  if  it  be  one  that  rises  with  both  its 
head  and  leg,  as  sign  Pisces,  the  hands  will  appear  first. 

According  to  certain  Commentators,  this  part  of  the 
text  is  interpreted  as  follows  :  "  If  the  lord  of  the  rising 
sign  be  in  his  direct  course,  the  birth  will  be  a  natural 
one  ;  and  if  in  his  retrograde  motion)  the  birth  will  be  an 
irregular  one."  This  meaning  has  the  support  of  Manittha. 

(£)  Or  if  malefic  planets  occupy  .the  same  sign  as 
the  Moon,  the  mother  will  suffer  from  travail. 


CH.  V.]  BriJiat  JdtaM.  47 

18.  The  oil  shall  be  determined  from  the  Moon  (a), 
the  wick  from  the  rising  sign  (<5)  ;  the  fixed  or  other 
nature  of  the  lamp  shall  be  determined  from  the  sign  occu- 
pied by  the  Sun  (c).  The  entrance  to  the  room  will  be  in 
the  direction  of  the  powerful  planet  occupying  a 
Kendra  (d)  or  in  that  of  the  most  powerful  planet. 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is,  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  beginning  of  a 
sign,  the  oil  of  the  lamp  in  the  delivery  room  will  be  full ; 
if  the  Moon  occupy  the  middle  part  of  a  sign,  the  oil  will 
be  one-half,  and  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  end  of  a  sign, 
there  will  be  no  oil  in  the  lamp  ;  in  other  words,  the 
quantity  of  oil  varies  with  the  position  of  the  Moon  in  the 
sign  occupied  by  her. 

According  to  Saravali,  if  the  Moon  be  full,  the  oil  will 
be  full  and  the  quantity  of  the  oil  varies  with  the  illumi- 
ned portion  of  the  Moon's  disc.  Bhatta  Utpala,  the  Com- 
mentator, objects  to  this  view,  for,  he  says  that  if  such 
were  the  case,  children  born  on  new-moon  days  should 
always  be  born  in  the  dark — this  cannot  be. 

(&)  That  is,  if  the  beginning  of  a  sign  begin  to  rise, 
the  wick  will  be  long  and  unburnt ;  if  the  middle  of  the 
sign  begin  to  rise,  the  wick  will  be  half  burnt ;  and  if  the 
end  of  the  sign  begin  to  rise,  the  wick  will  be  nearly 
wholly  burnt.  In  other  words,  the  length  of  the  wick  varies 
with  the  position  of  the  point  of  the  rising  sign  in  contact 
with  the  horizon.  The  wick  is  of  the  color  ofthe  rising 
sign. 

(c)  That  is,  if  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Sun  be  a 
fixed  one,  the  lamp  will  be  fixed  in  some  place  ;  if  movable, 
the  lamp  will  be  carried  by  some  body  in  the  hand;  and  if 
both  (fixed  and  movable)  the  lamp  will  be  a  swinging 
lamp.  The  Commentator  adds  that  the  lamp  will  be  in  the 
direction  assigned  to  the  signs  occupied  by  the  Sun.  Ac- 


48  Brihat  Jdtakd,  [Cn.  V. 

cording  to  some,  the  lamp  will  be  in  the  direction  of  the 
sign  (out  of  12  equal  parts  into  which  the  room  maybe 
divided)  occupied  by  the  Sun.  This  latter  division  evidently 
refers  to  the  division  referred  to  in  the  "  Introduction  ''  in 
connection  with  Horary  Astrology. 

According  to  others  again,  dividing  the  24  hours  of 
day  and  night  into  8  equal  parts  of  8  hours  each,  beginning 
from  sun-rise,  the  lamp  will  be  in  the  East,  S.  Bast,  South, 
&c.,  according  as  the  time  of  birth,  falls  in  the  1st,  2nd 
3rd,  &c.,  parts  of  the  division. 

(d)  If  there  are  no  planets  in  the  Kendras,  the  en- 
trance will  be  in  the  direction  of  the  L,agna  according  to 
Swalpa  Jataka. 

19.  If  Saturn  be  powerful,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a 
house  which,  having  become  old,  has  been  rebuilt.  If  Mars 
be  powerful,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a  house  partly  burnt  ; 
if  the  Moon  be  powerful,  then,  in  a  newly  built  house  ;  if 
the  Sun  be  powerful,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a  house  built 
of  wood  but  weak  ;  if  Mercury  be  powerful,  then  in  a  house 
built  by  several  builders  ;  if  Venus  be  powerful,  then  in 
a  beautiful  new  house  adorned  with  pictures ;  and  if 
Jupiter  be  powerful,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a  strong  built 
house  (a).  The  houses  on  the  four  sides  shall  be  described 
similarly  by  the  planets  in  the  Rasi  Chakra  (£). 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  Saravali,  if  the  Sun  occupy  the 
sign  occupied  by  the  most  powerful  planet  as  given  in  the 
text,  the  delivery  will  occur  in  the  room  set  apart  for  the 
worship  of  the  Devas ;  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  sign  occu- 
pied by  the  most  powerful  planet,  the  birth  will  occur  in 
the  bath  or  water  room  ;  if  Mars,  then  in  the  kitchen  or  the 
Agnihotra  Sala  ;  if  Mercury,  in  the  bed  room  ;  if  Jupiter, 
in  the  treasure  room  ;  if  Venus,  then  in  the  play  ground  ; 
and  if  Saturn,  the  birth  will  occur  in  the  place  where 
sweepings  are  deposited. 


CH.  V.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  49 

(<$)  That  is,  if  there  be  three  or  more  planets  hi  the 
three  signs  beginning  from  that  occupied  by  the  most 
powerful  planet,  there  will  be  houses  on  the  eastern  side  ; 
if  in  the  next  three  signs,  there  will  be  houses  on  the 
southern  side ;  if  in  the  next  three,  there  will  be  houses  on 
the  western  side  ;  and  if  in  the  last  three,  there  will  be 
houses  on  the  northern  side.  The  description  of  these 
houses  follows  that  given  in  the  text. 

Again,  according  to  Laghu  Jataka,  if  Jupiter,  at  the 
same  time,  be  in  the  10th  house  from  the  ascendant  and 
in  his  exaltation  sign — having  passed  over  the  exaltation 
degree,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a  two-storied  house  ;  if  he 
be  under  the  exaltation  degree,  the  birth  will  occur  in  a 
three-storied  house,  and  if,  in  the  exaltation  degree,  then  in 
a  four-storied  house. 

Again,  if  sign  Sagittari  be  powerful,  the  birth  will 
occur  in  a  house  consisting  of  3  inner  verandahs  ;  if  Jupiter 
occupy  the  10th  house  from  the  ascendant  and  if  such 
house  be  one  of  the  signs  Gemini,  Virgo  and  Pisces,  the 
house  will  be  one  with  two  inner  verandahs. 

20.  If  either  the  ascendant     sign,  or   the   ascendant 
Navamsa,  (whichever  is  powerful)  be  that  of  Aries,  Cancer, 
Libra,  Scorpio,  or  Aquarius,  the  delivery  room  will  be  in 
the  eastern  portion  of  the  house  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Sagittari, 
Pisces,    Gemini  or    Virgo,  then  in   the  northern   portion 
of  the  house  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Taurus,  then  in  the  western 
portion;  and  if  it  be  that  of  Capricorn  or  Leo,  the  delivery 
room  will  be  in  the  southern  portion  of  the  house. 

21.  If  the  rising  sign    be   Aries    or  Taurus,  the  bed 
of  the  woman  in  labour   will  be  in   the  eastern  portion  of 
the  room  ;  if  the  rising  sign  be   Gemini,  it  will  be  in  the 
south  eastern  portion  ;  if  Cancer  or  Leo,  then  in  the  south- 
ern  portion  ;  and  if    Virgo,    then  in  the  south-western 
portion  ;  if  Libra  or  Scorpio,  then  in  the  western  portion  ; 
and  if  Sagittari,   then   in  the  north-western    portion;  if 

7 


50  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  V, 

Capricorn  or  Aquarius  be  the  rising  sign,  the  bed  will  be 
i.n  the  northern  portion  of  the  room,  and  if  Pisces  be  the 
rising  sign,  it  will  be  in  the  north-eastern  portion  of  the 
room,  The  same  rule  applies  as  regards  the  place  in  the 
bed  or  cot,  where  the  woman  might  lie.  As  regards  the 
cot,  again,  its  two  front  legs  occupy  the  quarters  assigned 
to  the  12th  and  the  3rd  houses  from  the  ascendant  and  its 
two  hind  legs  occupy  the  quarters  assigned  to  the  6th  and 
the  9th  houses  (a). 

NOTES. 

(a)  In  other  words,  the  12th  and  the  3rd  houses 
represent  the  fore-legs  ;  the  9th  and  6th  houses  represent 
the  hind-legs  ;  the  3rd  and  the  6th  houses  represent  the 
two  right  legs  and  the  12th  and  the  9th  houses  represent 
the  two  left  legs.  Also,  the  rising  sign  and  the  2nd  house 
represent  the  head  of  the  cot,  the  4th  and  the  5th  houses 
represent  the  right  side  ;  the  7th  and  the  8th  houses 
represent  the  part  between  the  two  hind  legs, 
and  the  10th  and  the  llth  houses  represent  the 
left  side.  Now,  whatever  portion  of  the  cot  may  be 
represented  by  the  common  signs,  there;  the  cot  will  be 
bent  down  a  little,  and  this  will  not  be  the  case  if  such 
sign  is  either  occupied  or  aspected  by  its  Lord  or  by  a 
benefic  planet.  Again,  there  will  be  defects  in  those 
parts  of  the  cot  which  are  represented  by  signs  occupied 
by  malefic  planets  ;  and  this  will  not  be  the  case  if  such 
malefic  planets  be  in  their  exaltation  signs,  in  their 
Moola  Trikona  signs,  in  friendly  signs,  or  in  their  own 
houses. 

22.  The  number  of  midwives  will  be  the  number  of 
the  planets  between  the  rising  sign  and  the  Moon.  Of 
these  planets,  the  number  of  those  in  the  visible  hemi- 
sphere will  be  the  number  of  midwives  outside  the  room, 
and  the  number  of  planets  in  the  invisible  hemisphere 


*CH.  V.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  si 

will  be  the  number  of  mid  wives  inside  the  room.    Accord- 
ing to  some,  this  order  is  reversed,  (a) 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is,  of  the  planets  between  the  Lagna  and 
the  Moon,  the  number  in  the  visible  hemisphere  is  the 
Hunger  of  midwives  within  the  room,  and  the  number  of 
planets  in  the  invisible  hemisphere  will  be  the  number  of 
midwives  outside  the  room.  In  this  view,  Varaha  Mihira 
does  not  concur,  for  it  is  opposed  to  his  Swalpa  Jataka. 

Again,  if  benefic  planets  occupy  the  signs  from  the 
Lagna  to  the  Moon,  the  midwives  will  all  be  beautiful 
women,  well  dressed  and  adorned  ;  if  malefic  planets 
occupy  the  signs,  the  women  will  be  dirty,  ugly  and 
with  no  ornaments.  , 

Again,  if  any  of  the  planets  between  the  L,agna  and 
the  Moon  be  in  their  exaltation  signs  or  retrograde  in 
motion,  the  number  given  by  them  shall  be  trebled. 
But,  if  they  be  in  their  own  signs,  Navatnsas  or  Drek- 
kanas,  &c.,  the  number  given  by  the  several  planets  shall 
be  doubled. 

23.  The  structure  £>ud  other  peculiarities  («)  of  the 
body  shall  be  determined  from  the  lord  of  the  rising  Na- 
vamsa  or  from  the  most  powerful  planet ;  and  the 
color  (b)  of  the  body  shall  be  determined  from  the  (lord 
of  the)  Navamsa  occupied  by  the  Moon  ;  and  the  size  of 
the  several  parts  of  the  body  will  follow  the  signs  repre- 
senting them,  beginning  from  the  rising  sign  which  repre- 
sents the  head,  (c) 

NOTES. 

(a)  These  are  given  in  stanzas  8  to  11  in 
Chapter  II. 

The  Commentator  adds  that  if  the  sign  represented 
by  the  rising  Navamsa  be  powerful,  then  the  physical 
peculiarities  shall  be  determined  from  the  lord  of  such 


&2  Btihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  V. 

Navamsa;  if  not,  they  shall  be  determined  from  the  most 
powerful  planet. 

(b)  This  is  given  in  stanza  4,  Chapter  II.     Accord- 
ing to  some,  the    color   must   be   determined  from   the 
sign  occupied  by  the  Moon,   vide  Stanza  20,  Chapter  I. 
To  this    the  Commentator  objects.     For,   he   says  that 
there  are  no  people  of  the  color  of  the  parrot.     In  deter- 
mining the  color,   the   country,  the  climate,  occupation 
and  the  like  shall  be  taken  into  account. 

(c)  The  division  of  the  body  referred  to  here  is  the 
same  as  that  referred  to  in  Stanza  4,  Chapter  I,  with  this 
difference  that  while  the  latter   begins  from  sign  Aries, 
the  former  begins  from    the   rising   sign.    The  divisions 
are  as  follow  : 

The  rising  sign  represents  the  head  ;  the  2nd  house 
represents  the  face  ;  the  3rd,  the  breast ;  the  4th,  the  heart ; 
the  5th,  the  belly  ;  the  6th,  the  hip  ;  the  7th,  the  lower 
abdomen  ;  the  8th,  the  genital  organ  ;  the  9th,  the  two 
thighs  ;  the  10th,  the  two  knees  ;  the  llth,  the  two  shanks 
and  the  12th,  the  two  feet.  Now,  in  Stanza  19  of  Chap- 
ter I,  the  relative  magnitudes  of  the  several  signs  of  the 
Zodiac  are  given  as  follow : 

A    (Aries 20 — Pisces. 

-4.  Taurus 24 — Aquarius. 

T,    f  Gemini 28 — Capricorn. 

15>  1  Cancer 32— Sagittari. 

r    (Leo 36 — Scorpio. 

•u  1  Virgo ..40— Libra. 

Of  these,  the  4  signs  referred  to  in  division  A,  are 
known  as  short  signs.  The  4  of  division  B  are  known  as 
signs  of  middle  length  and  the  4  of  division  C  are  known  as 
long  signs.  So  that,  that  part  of  the  body  will  be  long  or 
:short  according  as  the  sign  representing  it,  is  long  or 
short.  If  the  lord  of  a  short  sign  occupy  a  long  sign,  or 
if  the  lord  of  a  long  sign  occupy  a  short  sign,  the  size  of 


CH.  V.] 


Brihat  Jdtdkd. 


53 


the  part  of  body  represented  will  be  of  middle  length.  If 
several  planets  occupy  a  sign,  the  most  powerful  of 
them  shall  be  taken  into  account,  and  if  no  planets  occupy 
a  sign,  the  size  of  the  part  of  body  will  simply  follow  that 
of  the  sign. 

^4.  The  three-fold  divisions  of  the  body  beginning 
from  the  head,  from  the  neck  and  from  the  lower  abdomen, 
according  as  the  rising  Drekkana  is  the  first,  the  second, 
or  the  third  are  as  follow  : 


The  twelve 


Part  of  body  represented  when  the  rising 
Drekkana  is 


The  first. 

The  second. 

The  third. 

The  rising 

Head. 

Neck. 

L,o  wer  abdomen. 

sign. 

2nd  house.. 

Right  eye  ... 

Right  arm 

Genital  organ. 

12th  „    ... 

Left  eye 

Left  arm 

Anus. 

3rd     „    ... 

Right  ear  ... 

Right  hand    ... 

Right  testicle. 

llth   „    ... 

Left  ear     ... 

Left  hand 

Left  testicle. 

4th 

Right  nostril 

Right  side 

Right  thigh. 

10th 

Left  nostril... 

Left  side 

Left  thigh. 

5th      „    ... 

Right  temple 

Right  breast  ... 

Right  knee. 

«th     „    ... 

Left  temple.. 

Left  breast     ... 

Left  knee. 

6th 

Right  cheek. 

Right  belly    ... 

Right  ankle. 

8th 

Left  cheek  .. 

Left  belly 

Left  ankle. 

7th      „    ... 

Mouth 

.  The  navel 

The  feet. 

25.  Wounds  will  occur  in  those  parts  of  body  the 
signs  representing  which  are  occupied  by  malefic  planets; 
•but  if  such  signs  be  occupied  or  aspected  by  benefic 
planets,  moles  will  appear  in  those  parts  ;  if  such  malefic 
or  benefic  planets  be  in  their  own  signs  or  Navainsas  or 
in  fixed  signs  Or  fixed  Navamsas,  the  wound  or  the  mole 


£4  terihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  V. 

will  exist  from  birth  ;  otherwise,  they  will  appear  at  a 
future  time  (a).  As  regards  wounds,  if  the  planet  causing 
it  be  Saturn,  the  wound  will  be  caused  by  a  stone  or  by 
wind  ;  if  Mars,  then  by  fire  or  weapon  or  by  poison  ; 
if  (malefic)  Mercury,  it  will  be  caused  by  earth  (fr)  ;  if  the 
Sun,  then  by  wood  or  by  quadrupeds  ;  if  the  (waning) 
Moon,  then  by  horned  animals  or  by  water  animals.  There 
will  be  no  wound  in  those  parts  of  the  body  which  are 
represented  by  signs  occupied  by  the  other  (benefic) 
planets,  (c) 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is,  in  the  Dasa  or  planetary  periods  of  the 
several  planets. 

(b)  By  landslips  and  by  a  piece  of  clod. 

(c)  By  Jupiter,  Venus,  (benefic)  Mercury  and  waxing 
Moon. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  stanza,  the  division  of  body 
is  that  referred  to  in  Stanza  24. 

26.  If  three  planets,  whether  malefic  or  benefic  to- 
gether with  Mercury  occupy  a  single  sign,  a  wound  or  a 
inole  will  appear  without  fail  in  the  parts  of  body 
represented  by  the  sign  (a).  Again,  in  the  division(<5)  of  the 
body  into  twelve  parts  beginning  from  the  head  (which 
the  Lagna  represents),  if  a  malefic  planet  occupy  the 
sixth  house,  a  wound  will  appear(^)  (in  the  hip)  ;  but  if 
the  malefic  planet  be  aspected  by  a  benefic  planet,  both  a 
dark  and  a  white  mole  will  appear;  but  if  benefic  planets 
occupy  the  sixth  house,  there  will  appear  only  a  crowded 
growth  of  hair. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  division  of  body  .referred  to  is  that  given  in 
Stanza  24. 

(t>)  The  division  referred  to  is  that  given  in  Note  (tf) 
to  Stanza  23. 


QH.  VI.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  55 

(c}  In  theDasa  period  of  the  most  powerful  planet. 
Also,  if  the  planet  occupying  the  6th  house  be  in  his  own 
sign  or  Navamsa  or  in  a  fixed  sign  or  Navamsa,  the  wound 
or  the  mole  will  exist  from  birth. 


CHAPTER  VI. 
On  Balarishta  or  Early  Death. 

1.  If  the  birth  should  occur  in  the  Sandhyakala  (a) 
(the  twilight  hours)  when  the  lunar  Hora  (b)   should   be 
rising  and  when  malefic  planets  occupy  the  last  Navamsas 
of  signs,  the  child  would  die  soon  after  birth.   Again,  if  at 
the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  and  three  malefic  planets  oc- 
cupy  the   four  Kendra?,  one  in  each,  then  also  the  child 
would  die, 

NOTES. 

(a)  Sandhyakala  ;     This   is   defined  by  the  Author 
in  his  Brihat  Samhita,   Stanza  1,  ch.  30:     "That  period 
which    precedes  the  moment  when  the     Sun  has  just 
half  risen  and  that  which  succeeds  the  moment  when  the 
Sun  has  just  half  set,  during  which  the  stars  are  invisible, 

is  known  as  Sandhyakala  or  twilight  period." 

(b)  In  the  odd  signs,  the  second  halves,  and  in  the 
even  signs,  the  first  halves  are  known  as  Lunar  Horas. 

2.  If  either  sign  Cancer  or  sign  Scorpio  should  rise 
at  the  time    of  birth  and   if  malefic  planets  occupy  the 
eastern  half  of  the  Zodiac  while   the   benefic   planets  oc- 
cupy the  western  half(«),  the  child  would  die  immediately 
after  birth.     Again,  if  malefic  planets  occupy   the   12th 
and  the  2nd  houses  or  the  6th  and  the  8th    houses   from 
the  rising  sign,  the  child  would  die. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  plane  of  meridian  divides  the  Zodiac  into 
two  equal  halves  known  as  the  Eastern  and  Western 
halves;  so  that,  if  the  10°  of  Cancer,  for  instance, 


56  Brikat  Jdtakd.  [GH,  VI. 

should  be  rising  at  the  time,  the  Eastern  half  would 
roughly  comprise  the  portion  of  the  Zodiac  from  the40° 
of  Aries  to  the  10°  of  Libra  :  and  the  Western  half  would 
comprise  the  portion  of  the  Zodiac  from  the  10°  of  Libra 
to  the  10°  of  Aries. 

(£)  According  to  certain  Commentators,  the  two 
yogas  are  taken  together  and  made  to  form  a  single  yoga. 
In  other  words,  the  child  would  die  under  the  first  yoga 
only  if  malefic  planets  occupy  the  2nd,  the  12th,  the  6th 
and  the  8th  houses.  According  to  Garga,  there  wTU;be' 
death  in  each  of  the  following  four  yogas  :  Malefic  planets 
o  cupying,  (1)  the  6th  and  the  12th  houses,  (2)  the  8th' 
and  2nd  houses,  (3)  the  12th  and  2nd  houses,  and  (4)  the 
8th  and  6th  houses. 

8.  If  the  rising  sign,  the  setting  sign  and  the  sign 
occupied  by  the  Moon  be  each  occupied  by  a  malefic  planet 
and  if  the  Moon  be  not  aspected  by  benefic  planets,  the 
child  will  die  immediately  after  birth. 

'••'•  ••'•  4.  If  the  waning  Moon  occupy  the  12th  house  from 
the  ascendant,  if  the  malefic  planets  occupy  the  rising 
sign  and  the  8th  house,  and  if  benefic  planets  do  not 
occupy  the  Kendras,  the  child  will  die  immediately  after 
birth. 

5.  If  the  Moon  attended  by  a  malefic  planet  occupy 
the  rising  sign  or  the  7th,  the  8th  or  the  12th  house,  and 
if  benefic  planets  do  not  occupy  the  Kendras,  and  if  they 
do  not  aspect  the  Moon,  the  child  will   die  soon   after 
birth. 

NOTES. 

So  that,  if  benefic  planets  occupy  the  Kendras,  there 
will  be  no  early  death. 

6.  If,  when  the  Moon  occupies  the  6th  or  the  8th 
house  from  the  ascendant,  a  malefic  planet  aspect  the 
same,  the  child  will  die  soon  after  birth  ;  if  benefic  planets 


CH.  VI.]  Brihat  3ataka*  57 

alone  aspect  it,  the  child  will  die  after  8  years ;  and  if 
both  a  benefic  and  a  malefic  planet  aspect  the  Moon,  the 
child  will  die  4  years  after  birth  (a) ;  but  if  a  benefic 
planet  (occupying  the  6th  or  the  8th  house)  be  aspected 
by  powerful  malefic  planets  (ft),  or  if  the  lord  of  the  rising 
sign  occupy  the  7th  house  and  be  defeated  in  planetary 
fight  (conjunction)  by  a  malefic  planet  (c),  the  child,  will 
die  a  month  after  birth. 

NOTES. 

(a)  So  that,  if  the  Moon  occupying  the  6th  or  the  8th 
house,  be  not  aspected  by  any  planet  there  will  be  no  early 
death.  In  connection  with  this,  Yavaueswara  says  :  If 
the  6th  or  the  8th  house  occupied  by  the  Moon  be  the 
house  of  a  benefic  planet,  or  if  the  Moon  be  accompanied 
by  a  benefic  planet,  even  though  he  may  be  in  a  malefic 
sign,  the  child  will  not  die.  Mandavya  says  :  If  the  birth 
occur  by  day  in  the  dark  half,  or,  by  night  hi  the  bright 
half  of  the  month,  there  will  be  escape  from  death  even 
if  the  Moon  occupy  the  6th  or  the  8th  house  and  be  as- 
pected by  both  malefic  and  benefic  planets. 

(&)  In  the  absence  of  benefic  planets  aspecting  the 
Moon,  adds  the  Commentator.  Swalpa  Jataka  has  the 
following  : 

"  By  malefic  planets  or  by  planets  retrograde  in  their 
motion." 

(c)  The  planet  that  generally  suffers  defeat  in  con- 
junction, is  the  southern  one,  one  of  forbidding  appear- 
ance, one  of  flickering  light,  one  retrograde  in  motion  or 
of  small  size,  or  in  conjunction  with  the  Sun,  or  which  is 
of  unusual  appearance  or  without  light  or  color. 

7.     If  the  waning  Moon  occupy  the  rising  sign  arid  if 

malefic  planets  occupy  the  8th  house  and  the  Kendras,  or 

if  the  Moon  occupy  the  4th,  7th  or  the  8th  house  and  be 

between  malefic  planets,  the  child  will  die.     Again,  if 

8 


58  Brikat  JataM.  [Cn.  VI. 

Moon  occupy  the  rising  sign  and  be  between  malefic 
planets  and  if  malefic  planets  occupy  the  7th  and  the  8th 
houses  and  powerful  benefic  planets  fail  to  aspect  the 
Moon  (a),  both  the  mother  and  the  child  will  die. 

NOTES. 

(a)     If  they  do  aspect  the    Moon,   the   mother  will 
escape  and  the  child  will  die. 

8.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  the  last 
Navamsa  of  a  sign  and  not  be  aspected  by  benefic  planets, 
and  if  malefic  planets  occupy  the  5th  and  the  9th  houses 
or  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  rising  sign  and  malefic  planets 
occupy  the  7th  house,  the  child  will  die  soon  after  birth. 

9.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  eclipsed  Moon  occupy 
the  rising  sign  with  a  malefic  planet    (a)  while  Mars  oc- 
cupies the  8th  house,  both  the  mother  and  the  infant  will 
die.     If  instead  of  the  Moon,  the   Sun  (3)  be  in  a  similar 
position,  such  death  will  be   caused  by  weapons.    Again, 
if  either  the  Sun  or  the  Moon  occupy  the  rising  sign  and 
if  malefic  planets  occupy  the  5th,  8th  and  9th  houses,  the 
child  will  die,  if  either  the  Sun   or  the   Moon  be  neither 
aspected  nor  accompanied  by  powerful  benefic  planets. 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is  Saturn. 

(b)  That  is,  if  the  eclipsed  Sun  occupy  the  rising 
sign  accompanied  by  a  malefic  planet  (either  Mercury  or 
Saturn),  while  Mars  occupies  the  8th  house. 

10.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  Saturn,  the   Sun,    the 
Moon  and  Mars  occupy  respectively  the  12th,  9th,  1st  and 
the  8th  houses,  the  child  will  die  soon  after  birth  if  the 
planets  be  not  aspected  by  powerful  Jupiter. 

NOTES. 

To  aspect  all  the  four  planets,  Jupiter  must  occupy 
the  5th  house,    If  Jupiter  should  aspect  only  some  of  the 


CH.  VI]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  59 

'four  planets,  or,  if  he  be  weak  though  he  might  aspect  all 
the  four  planets,  the  child  will  die.  So  that,  the  child 
will  escape  death  only  if  powerful  Jupiter  aspect  all  the 
four  planets. 

11.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  (a)  accompani- 
ed by  a  malefic  planet  occupy   the  5th,  the  7th,  the   9th, 
the    12th,  the  1st,  or  the  8th  house,  and  if  she  be  neither 
accompanied  nor  aspected  by  powerful  Venus,  Mercury  or 
Jupiter,  the  child  will  die  soon  after  birth. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  Moon  is  the  waning  Moon  according  to 
Saravali. 

12.  The  death  will  occur  when  the  Moon  comes 
either  to  the  sign  occupied  by  the  powerful  planet  causing 
such  death,  or  to  the  sign  occupied  by  herself  at  the  time 
of  birth  or  to  the  rising   sign  at  the  time,  provided  the 
Moon  is  both  powerful  and  aspected  by  powerful  malefic 
planets  ;  and  the  Munis  say  that  the  period  for  such  death 
is  a  year  (0). 

NOTES. 

* 

(a)  The  Moon  makes  about  13  revolutions  in  the 
course  of  a  year.  Whenever  the  Moon  in  the  course  of 
motion  becomes  powerful  and  is  aspected  by  powerful 
malefic  planets  on  reaching  one  of  the  three  places  men- 
tioned in  the  text,  the  death  will  occur. 

Notes. — The  Commentator  now  proceeds  to  describe  a 
number  of  yogas  which  counteract  the  several  Balarishta 
yogas  given  in  the  text.  They  are  given  below  : 

1.  If  powerful  Jupiter  occupy  the  rising  sign,  there 
will  be  no  early  death. 

2,  If  the  lord  of  the  rising  sign  be  powerful,  and  be 
not  aspected  by  malefic  planets  but  be  aspected  by  benefic 
planets  occupying  the  Kendras,  the  child  will  live  long. 


60  B-rihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  VI. 

3.  Even  though   the  Moon  should  occupy  the  8th" 
house,  if  she  should,  at  the  same  time,  occupy  the  Drek- 
kana  of  Jupiter,  Mercury  or  Venus,  there  will  be  no  early 
death. 

4.  If  the  Moon  be  full,  if  she  should  occupy  benefic 
signs,  be  between  beuefic  planets  and  be  aspected  by  Ve- 
nus, there  will  be  no  early  death. 

5.  If  either  Mercury,  Venus  or  Jupiter  be  powerful 
and  occupy  a  Kendra,  there  will  be  no  early  death  even 
if  he  be  accompanied  by  a  malefic  planet. 

6.  Though  the  Moon  occupy  the  6th  house  there 
will  be  no  early  death  if  she  occupy  the  Drekkana  of 
Jupiter,  Venus  or  Mercury. 

7.  If  the   Moon   be  full  and   be    between   benefic 
planets,  there  will  be  no  early  death. 

8.  If  the  Moon  be  full  or  if  the  birth  occur  during  the 
day  when  it  is  waning  Moon,   or  during  the  night  when 
it  is  waxing  Moon,  there  will  be  no  early  death  even  if 
the  Moon  occupy  the  6th  or  the  8th  house. 

9.     If  the  Moon  be   full  anc^be   aspected  by  Jupiter 
occupying  a  Kendra,  there  will  be  no  early  death. 

10.  If  Jupiter,  the  Moon,  Venus  and  Mercury  occu- 
py the  houses,  the  Navamsas  or  the  Drekkanas,  of  benefic 
planets,  there  will  be  no  early  death. 

11.  If  either  the  lord  of  the  house  occupied  by  the 
Mo'on   or  if  a  benefic  planet  occupy  ra  Keiidra,  there  will 
be  no  early  death. 

12.  If  malefic  planets  occupy  beuefic  Vargas  (divi- 
sion,)  and  be   aspected   by    benefic  planets,   occupying 
benefic  Vargas,  there  will  be  no  early  death. 

13.  If  Rahu  occupy  the  3rd,  6th  or  llth  house  and 
be  aspected  by  beuefic    planets,  there   will  be  no  early 
death. 


CH.  Vlt]  Brihat  Jdtaka,  61 

14.  If  all   the   planets    occupy  the   Sirodaya  signs, 
there  will  be  no  early  death. 

15.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  a  benefic  planet  success- 
ful   in    planetary    fight    (conjunction)    be  aspected   by 
another  benefic  planet,  there  will  be  no  early  death. 

16.  If  the  full  Moon  be  aspected  by  all   the  planets 
there  will  be  no  early  death. 


CHAPTER  VII. 
On  Ayurdaya  or  the  Determination  of  the  Length  of  Life. 

1.  According  to  Maya,  Yavanacharva,  Manittha  and 
Parasara,  the  maximum  number  of  the  years  (a)  of  the 
Sun,  the  Moon  and  other  planets  are  respectively  19,  25, 
15,  12,  15,  21  and  20  when  the  planets  are  in  their  exal- 
tation degrees. 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is,  the  Savana  year — a  year  consisting  of 
360  Savana  days.  A  Savana  day  counts  from  Sun-rise  to 
Sun-rise. 

A  Soura  or  Solar  year  consists  of  365*242264  days. 

(£)  In  this  chapter,  several  methods  are  given  foj; 
determining  the  length  of  human  and  other  animal  life 
from  the  planetary  positions  at  the  time  of  birth.  The 
Author  first  proceeds  to  state  what  is  known  as  Pinda- 
yurdaya. 

The  years  given  by  the  Sun  when  in  his  exaltation 

degree  is  19. 

„          „  Moon  „  „        „        25. 

„          „  Mars  „  „        „        15< 

„          „  Mercury       „  „        „         12. 

„          „  Jupiter         „  „        „        15. 

„          „  Venus  „  „        „        21. 

,,          „  Saturn         „  „        „        20. 

The  exaltation  signs  with  the  exaltation  degrees  of 

the  several  planets   are  given  in  Stanza  13,  Ch.  I. 


62  Brihat  3dtakd.  [Cn.  VlL 

Before  the  length  of  life  can  be  ascertained,  the  years 
given  above  have  to  be  subjected  to  various  reductions. 

2.  If  the  planets  are  in  their  depression  degrees, 
their  years  will  be  one-half  of  those  stated  above  ;  if  in 
any  other  places,  the  years  shall  be  obtained  by  propor- 
tion (a).  The  number  of  years  given  by  Lagna  is  the 
same  as  the  number  of  Navamsas  of  the  rising  sign  that 
may  have  risen  above  the  horizon  (<5).  According  to 
some  (i),  the  number  of  years  given  by  Lagna  is  the 
number  of  signs  between  the  first  point  of  Aries  and  the 
Lagna  (d).  Again,  if  a  planet  be  in  an  inimical  sign,  he 
loses  a  third  of  his  period  (e)  ;  if  he  be  an  Astangata  (/) 
planet,  he  loses  one  half  (j>) ;  but  no  reduction  need  be 
made  in  the  case  of  Mars  (h)  occupying  an  inimical  sign, 
or  in  the  case  of  Saturn  and  Venus  being  Astangata 
planets. 

NOTES. 

(a)  This  reduction  is  known  as  Neechardhaharana. 
Suppose,  for  instance,  the  Sun  to  occupy  the  21st  degree 
of  Sagittari.  Required  his  years.  The  exaltation  de- 
gree of  the  Sun  is  the  10th  degree  of  Aries  and  his  de- 
pression degree  is  the  10th  degree  of  Libra.  When  in 
the  latter  degree,  the  number  of  years  of  the  Sun  will  be 
one-half  of  what  it  is  in  the  former  degree,  t'.c.,  one-half 
of  19,  or  9^  years.  From  the  10th  degree  of  Libra  to  the 
10th  degree  of  Aries  is  180  degrees.  So  that,  every  degree 
gives  us  _9^  years.  Now,  from  the  10th  degree  of  Libra  to 

TSQ 

the  21st  degree  of  Sagittari  is  2  signs  and  11  degrees,  t.et) 
60  +  11  or  71  degrees.     71  degrees  give  us  71  x9*  years 

T8~T7 

=  3  years  8  months  and  29  days,  Adding  this  to  9|  years, 
we  get  13  years,  5  months  and  29  days.  The  years  of  the 
other  planets  may  be  similarly  ascertained.  These  years 
are  subject  to  certain  reductions  as  will  be  seen  further  on, 
(d)  The  Author  gives  here  what  is  known  as  Lagna- 


CH.  VIL]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  63 

yurdaya  :  that  is,  the  rising  sign  gives  a  number  of  years  in 
the  same  way  as  the  planets  do.  A  sign  of  Zodiac,  consist- 
ing of  nine  Navamsas,  gives  us  9  years.  So  that,  if  the 
10th  degree  of  Leo  be  rising,  the  number  of  years  given  by 
Lagna  is  £$  x  9  years  =  3  years. 

(c)  Some :  Manittha  and  men  of  his  school.  In  this 
view,  the  Commentator  roncurs. 

(d)  In  other  words,  each  sign  of  the  Zodiac  gives  a 
year;    so   that,    if  the    10th     degree    of  Leo — the  5th 
sign  from  Aries  be  rising,   the  number  of  years  given  by 
Lagna  =  4  +  ^  years  =  4  years  and  4 months.     The  Com- 
mentator adds  that  according  to  Saravali,  in  the   case  of 
Lagnayurdaya,  the  rule  given  in  note  (b)   should  be  fol- 
lowed if  the  lord  of  the  rising  Navamsa  be  powerful,  and 
that  given  in  this  note    should  be  followed  if  the   lord  of 
the  rising  sign  be  powerful. 

(e)  Planetary  period  ascertained  as  per  note  (a).     In 
other  words,  f  of  his  years  shall  be  taken.     This  reduction 
is  known  as  Satru-Kshetraharana. 

(/)  A  planet  is  said  to  be  an  Astangata  one  when 
he  disappears  within  a  particular  limit  from  the  Sun,  his 
light  being  then  obscured  by  the  light  of  the  Sun.  This 
limit  varies  with  different  planets.  In  direct  course,  dis- 
appearance and  re-appearance  take  place  as  follow : 

Mars     when       within      17  degrees  from  the  Sun. 

Mercury        >      14        „        „        „ 

But  when  retrograde  >      12        „        „        n 

Jupiter          11        „        „        „ 

Venus  •)      10 

But  when  retrograde  )  ;,        „        „ 

Saturn  15        „        „        „ 

The  Moon     12 

The  reduction  is  known  as  Astangata-harana. 
(</)     In  other  words,  half  of  his  period  shall  be  taken. 
But   where   both  Satrukhetra   and  Astangata  reductions 
have  to  be   made,  the   greater   reduction  shall  be  made, 
(Garga). 


64  BrihatJatakd.  [Cn.  VII. 

(K)  The  word  used  in  the  text  is  Vakra ;  this  is  inter- 
preted to  mean  "  Mars  "  by  some  and  "  a  planet  of  retro- 
grade motion  "  by  others.  So  that,  according  to  the  latter, 
no  reduction  for  being  in  an  inimical  sign  need  be  made 
from  his  years  if  the  planet  be  retrograde  in  motion.  In 
this  view,  Varaha  Mihira  concurs.  But  the  other  view  has 
the  support  of  Badarayana  and  Garga. 

3.  If  malefic  planets  occupy  the  12th,  llth,  10th,  9th, 
8th,  or  the  7th  house  from  the  rising  sign,  a  reduction  in 
full,  one  of  one-half,  one-third,  one-fourth,  one-fifth  and  one- 
sixth,  shallbe  made  respectively  in  the  years  obtained  (a).  If 
the  planets  occupying  the  said  houses  be  benefic  ones,  the 
reduction  will  only  be  one-half  (b)  of  what  was  stated   for 
each.    But  if  several  planets  occupy  a  single  sign,   the 
reduction  shall  be  made  for  the  most  powerful  one.   This 
is  according  to  Satyacharya  (c). 

NOTES. 

This  reduction  is  known  as  Chakrapataharana  and 
must  always  be  made.  Where  two  reductions  have  to 
be  made,  either  may  be  done  first  and  the  other  to  the 
result.  The  final  result  will  be  the  same. 

(a)  o,  ^  |,  |,  |and  £  of  the  years  shall  respective- 
ly be  taken. 

(&)  Where  the  amount  of  reduction  was  stated  to  be 
full  in  the  case  of  a  malefic  planet,  it  is  only  one-half  in 
the  case  of  a  benefic  planet ;  where  it  was  stated  to  be  one- 
half  in  the  former  case,  it  is  only  one-fourth  in  the  latter 
case  and  so  forth.  In  other  words  £,  £,  |,  £,  y9^,  \\,  of 
periods  shall  be  taken. 

(c)     In  this  view,  Varaha  Mihira  concurs. 

4.  If  a  malefic  planet  (a)  occupy  the  rising  sign,  then 
multiply  the  total  number  of  years  already  obtained  by  the 


CH.  VII. J  Brihat  Jdtakd.  65 

number  of  Navamsas  between  the  first  point  of  Aries  and 
the  Lagna  of  the  rising  Navamsa  and  divide  the  product 
by  108.  (3)  The  quotient  will  be  the  number  of  years  to 
be  subtracted  (c)  from  the  total  number  of  years  already 
obtained  (d}.  But,  if  the  malefic  planet  be  aspected  by  a 
benefic  one,  the  amount  of  reduction  will  only  be  one-half 
of  what  was  stated  above. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  Sun,  Mars  or   Saturn  and  not  the   waning 
Moon,  according  to  Badarayana-    Again,  if  both  a  benefic 
and  a  malefic  planet  occupy  the  rising  sign,  the  reduction 
is  for  the  planet  nearest  the  rising  point. 

(b)  Taking  the  fraction  of  the   rising  Navamsa  also 
into  account. 

(c)  The  reduction  is   known   as   Krurodayaharana, 
(d}    According  to  Saravali,  the   number  of  years  of 

reduction  is  obtained  by  multiplying  the  total  number  of 
years  already  obtained  by  the  number  of  Navamsas  of 
the  rising  sign  that  have  risen  above  the  horizon  and 
dividing  the  product  by  108 — the  total  number  of  Navamsas 
of  the  Zodiac.  In  this  view,  the  Commentator  concurs. 
The  text  is  capable  of  both  the  meanings. 

5.  The  maximum  length  of  life  of  man  and  the  ele- 
phant is  120  years  and  5  days,  that  of  the  horse  is  32 
years,  that  of  the  ass  and  the  camel  is  25  years,  that  of 
the  buffalo  and  the  ox  is  24  years,  that -of  the  dog  (a]  is 
12  years,  and  that  of  the  goat  and  the  like  (b)  is  16  years. 

NOTES. 

To  find  out  the  length  of  life  of  an  animal.  Make 
the  calculation  as  for  a  man  and  multiply  the  result  by 
the  maximum  period  of  life  of  the  particular  animal  and 
divide  the  product  by  120  years  and  5  days.  The  result 
will  be  the  .length  of  life  of  the  animal  required, 
9 


Brihat  Jdtaku. 


[Cn.  VIL 


(a)  Dog  and  animals  with  claws,  such  as  th  e  cat, 
the  tiger,  the  lion,  and  the  like. 

(£)     Goat,  the  deer  and  the  like. 

6.  The  length  of  life  of  a  person  born  when  the 
last  Navamsa  of  Pisces  is  rising,  when  Mercury  has  just 
passed  25  minutes  in  sign  Taurus  and  when  all  the  other 
planets  occupy  their  exaltation  signs  is  the  maximum 
period  of  120  years  and  5  days. 

NOTES. 

The  horoscope  referred  to  in  the  text  is  given  below^ 


Venus. 
Lagna. 

Sun. 

Moon. 
Mercury. 

RasiChakra. 

Jupiter. 

Mars. 

Saturn. 

As  all  planets  excepting  Mercury  are  in  their  exalta- 
tion sign's  (and  in  their  exaltation  degrees  as  supposed 
by  the  Commentator)  the  years  given  by  such  planets  are 
the  maximum  years  assigned  to  them.  The  maximum 
rmmber  of  years  of  Mercury,  when  in  his  exaltation  de- 
gree, viz.,  the  15th  degree  of  Virgo  is  12,  and  when  in 
his  depression  degree,  viz  ,  the  15th  degree  of  Pisces,  is  6. 
The  remaining  15  degrees  of  Pisces  give  us  6  months. 
Sign  Aries  gives  us  a  year.  Now  the  first  degree  of 
Taurus'gives  ns  12  days  and  therefore  25  minutes  of  the 
1st  degree  give  us  £jj-x25  =  5  days.  So  that,  the  years  of 


CH.  VII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  67 

Mercury    =    6   years  +  6  mouths    +  1  year+  5  days  =  7 
years,  6  months  and  5  days. 

Again,  as  the  end  of  sign  Pisces  was  rising,  according 
to  the  Commentator,  the  nine  Navamsas  of  sign  Pisces 
give  us  9  years;  so  that  we  have  the  following: — 


The  Sun   ...19  yrs. 
The  Moon... 2 5  „ 
Mars  ..15  „ 


Jupiter  ...  15  yrs. 

Venus  ...  21     „ 

Saturn  ...  20     „ 

Lagna  ...    9      „ 


Mercury     ...7  yrs.  6  ins.  5  ds. 

Now,  the  reduction  known  as  Chakrapataharaua  is 
to  be  made  from  the  years  of  Mars  and  Saturn,  these  two 
being  malefic  planets  the  former  occupying  the  llth  house 
and  the  latter  the  8th  house  from  the  rising  sigft.  The 
amount  of  reduction  therefore  is  one-half  in  thej  case  of 
Mars  and  one-fifth  in  the  case  of  Saturn.  Accordingly, 
after  making  the  reduction,  the  years  of  Mars  will  be  7i 
and  those  of  Saturn  will  be  16.  Reductions  known  as 
Satrukshetra-harana,  Astangata-harana  and  Krurodaya- 
harana  have  not  to  be  made  in  this  case.  The  resulting 
years,  therefore,  are — 

Years.     Months.     Days. 

The  Sun  19 

The  Moon  ...  ...  25 

Mars  765 

Mercury  ...  ...  7  6 

Jupiter  ...  ...  15 

Venus  ...  ...  21 

Saturn  ...  ...  J6  ...  ... 

Lagna  ...  ...  9  ...  ... 

Total  length  of  life    ...  120          ...  5 

7.  This  Pindayurdaya  method  has  also  been  treated 
of,  by  Vishnugupta  (a),  Devaswami  and  Siddhasena.  Reject- 
ing the  age  of  8,  the  period  of  Balarishta  or  early  death  (6), 
the  main  fault  in  this  Pindayurdaya  is,  that,  in  no 
case,  it  give  us  years  less  than  20  (c). 


Brihat  Jdtakd. 


H.  vu; 


NOTES. 

(a)    Visbnugupta  is  otherwise  known  as  Chanakya. 
(/;)     To  which  none  of  the  Ayurdaya  rules  apply. 

0)  The  Commentator  considers  that  this  stanza  is 
not  the  Author's  ;  the  objection  to  Pindayurdaya  raised  in 
it,  he  meets  as  follows  by  proving  that  Pindayurdaya  docs 
give  years  below  20.  Retakes  the  following  horoscope. 
The  first  Navamsa  of  Aquarius  is  the  Lagna;  the  Sun,  the 
Moon  and  Venus  occupy  their  exaltation  degrees;  Mercury 
Jupiter  and  Saturn  occupy  their  depression  degrees,  and 
Mars  occupies  the  28th  degree  of  sign  Aquarius. 


Venus. 
Mercury. 

Sun. 
Saturn. 

Moon. 

Mars. 
Lagna. 

Rasi  Chakra. 

Jupiter. 

Now,  as  the  Sun,  the  Moon  and  Venus  are  in  their 
exaltation  degrees,  their  years  are  respectively  19,  25  and 
21  ;  and  as  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Saturn  occupy  their  de- 
pression degrees,  their  years  are  one-half  of  their  niaxi- 
nium  years,  that  is  one-half  of  12,  15  and  20  or  6,  7^  and 
10  respectively.  Now,  the  28th  degree  of  Capricorn  is  the 
exaltation  degree  of  Mars,  and  as  lie  occupies  the  28th 
degree  of  Aquarius,  he  is  removed  from  the  exaltation 
degree  by  exactly  30  degrees.  His  maximum  number  of 
years  when  in  the  28th  degree  of  Capricorn  being  15  ;  30 
degrees  or  a  sign  gives  us  |f  or  a  year  and  3  months.  Sub- 


CH.  VII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  69 

trading  this  from  15  years,  we  get  13  years  and  9  months 
as  the  years  of  Mars.  As  sign  Aquarius  was  just  rising, 
Lagna  gives  us  no  years  ;  so  that,  at  this  stage  the  plane- 
tary years  stand  as  follows  : 


The  Sun     ...19  years. 
The  Moon... 25     „ 
Venus          ...21 


Mercury  ...6  years. 
Jupiter    ...7  years  6  ms. 
Saturn      ..10 


Mars  1 3  years  9  months. 

Now  as  Jupiter,  a  benefic  planet  occupies  the  12th 
house  from  the  rising  sign,  his  years  suffer  a  reduction  of 
one-half  of  their  lengrh  ;  so  that,  after  the  reduction,  he 
gives  us  only  3  years  and  9  months.  Again,  as  all  the 
planets  occupy  friendly  si^ns,  no  Satru-Kshetraharana 
need  be  made.  Saturn  being  within  10  degrees  from 
the  Sun  is  an  Astangata  planet ;  but  his  years  however 
suffer  no  reduction  ;  so  that,  he  gives  us  10  years. 
Thus,  we  have  the  following  : — 


The  Sun    ...19  years. 
The  Moon... 25      „ 
Venus        ...21 


Jupiter  ...3  years.  9  his. 
(  Saturn    ...10  years, 
j  Mars     ...  13  years  9  months. 


Mercury     ...  6      „  | 

Total  98  years  and  6  months. 

Now,  as  Mars,  a  malefic  planet,  occupies  the 
rising  sign,  the  total  number  of  98  years  and  6  mouths 
has  to  be  subjected  to  a  reduction  known  as  Krurodaya- 
harana.  In  other  words,  the  108  Navamsas  of  the 
ecliptic  represent  the  total  number  of  years.  Now,  there 
are  10x9  =  90  Navamsas  between  the  first  point  of  Aries 
.and  the  first  point  of  Aquarius-  The  quantity  of  reduc- 
tion, therefore,  is  -^  x  98  years  and  6  months.  There- 
fore, the  years  remaining  after  the  reduction  =-TV%  x  98 
years  and  6  months  =  16  years  and  5  months,  the  length 
of  life  required.  This,  of  course,  is  less  than  20  years. 

8.  To  the  very  yoga  to  which  the  maximum  length 
of  life  has  been  assigned,  certain  Astrologers  (#)  have 


T^O  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Crt.  Vlfc 

ascribed  the  life  of  a  king.  There  is  an  evident  error  in 
iliis  (b).  Another  error  is,  that  persons  born  under  the 
yoga  of  a  sovereign  are  often  found  to  live  long  and  poor. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Such  as  Badarayana  and  Yavaneswara. 
(3)    The  idea  is  that  either  most  of  the    kings  are 
short-lived  or  that  most  of  the  beggars  live  long. 
The  objection  amounts  to  this  : 

That  the  very  yoga  which,  according  to  Pindayurdaya 
is  said  to  give  a  person  the  maximum  length  of  life  is  consi- 
dered by  certain  astrologers  as  Raja  Yoga.  In  either  case, 
several  planets  occupy  their  exaltation  signs  (vide  Stanza 
1,  Chapter  XT.)  The  Commentator  considers  this  stanza 
too,  not  as  the  Author's,  the  objection  raised  being 
an  absurd  one.  For,  it  is  wrong  to  suppose  that  a 
particular  yoga  cannot  be  both  a  yoga  for  long  life  and 
one  for  the  life  of  a  sovereign.  The  other  objection 
raised  in  the  text  is  evidently  a  frivolous  one  and  ought 
to  be  proved  before  it  can  be  met. 

9.  According  to  Jeevasarma,  the  maximum  number 
of  years  for  each  planet  when  in  his  exaltation  sign  and 
degree  is  one-seventh  of  the  maximum  length  of  human 
life— 120  years  and  5  days— which  is,  17  years,  1  month, 
22  days,  8  ghatikas,  34'3  vighatikas  =  17-14484  years, 
nothing  omitted  («).  In  this  view,  Jeevasarma  stands 
alone  and  is  not  supported  by  other  authorities.  Accord- 
ing to  Satyacharya,  the  planetary  years  are  the  same  as 
the  number  of  Navamsas  passed  over  by  each  planet  (3)t 
This  view  has  the  support  of  many  authorities. 

NOTES. 

(«)  Just  as  in  Pindayurdaya,  the  several  reductions 
are  to  be  made  and  then  the  resulting  length  of  life 
ascertained. 


CH.  VII.]  Brihat  JdtakeL  71 

(b)  Counting  from  the  Navamsa  of  Aries  immediate- 
ly preceding  ;  so  that,  no  planet  can  give  more  than  1£ 
years. 

10.  According  to  Satyacharya,  convert  the  Sphuta 
or  longitude  of  the  planet  into  minutes  ;  divide  the 
number  of  minutes  by  200 ;  the  quotient  will  re'present 
the  number  of  Navamsas  passed  over  by  the  planet  frbm 
the  first  point  of  Aries.  Divide  this  by  12,  the  remainder 
will  give  the  number  of  Navamsas  from  the  Navamsa  of 
Aries  and  the  number  is  also  'the  number  of  years  and1 
fraction  of  a  year  for  the  planet. 

NOTES. 

Suppose,  the  longitude  of  the  Sun  to  be  115  degrees,  13, 
minutes.  This  converted  into  minutes  gives  6,91,3 
minutes.  Now,  as  a  Navamsa  contains  200  minutes,  the 
number  of  Navamsas  passed  over  by  the  Sun  from  the 
first  point  of  Aries  =  6|^3  =  34-  ££$.  Dividing  this  by 
12,  we  get  as  remainder  104-^j-  Navamsas  from  the  next 
preceding  Navamsa  of  Aries.  This,  then,  represents  the 
years  of  the  Sun  which  will  be  found  to  be  10  years,  6 
months,  23  days  and  24  ghatikas ;  and  so  on,  for  each 
planet. 

11.  Again,  if  any  planet  occupies  its  exaltation 
sign  or  is  retrograde  in  its  motion,  the  years  assigned  to 
it,  shall  be  trebled  ;  and  if  the  planet  be  in  its  Vargot- 
tama  or  Navamsa  or  Swakshetra  or  Drekkana,  its  years 
shall  be  doubled.  The  above  is  a  special  feature  in 
Satyachar>iar's  Ayurdaya.  In  other  respects,  it  resembles 
the  Pindayurdaya — the  several  reductions  (a}  already  re- 
ferred to~  apply  to  the  present  case. 

NOTES. 

(a}  These  are  Satru-Kshetraharana  except  for 
Mars,  Astangataharana  except  for  Venus  and  Saturn  and 
Chakrapataharana.  The  reduction  known  as  Krurodaya- 


72  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  VII. 

harana  does  not  apply  to  Satyacharyar's  method    (vide 
Stanza  12). 

According  to  Garga,  a  planet  occupying  his  Neecha- 
rasi  Loses  one-half  as  stated  in  Note  (g)  to  Stanza  2 
excepting  Chakrapataharana,  which  must  always  be 
done.  Of  the  other  reductions,  if  several  have  to  be  done 
to  the  years  of  a  planet  it  will  be  sufficient,  if  the  biggest 
one  alone  be  made.  So  says(  Bhattotpala  and  no  autho- 
rity says  otherwise.  It  is  just  the  same  whether  the 
reductions  are  made  first  and  the  remainders  are  then 
doubled  or  trebled  or  the  multiples  made  first  and  the 
reductions  then  applied  to  them. 

12.  According  to   Satyacharya,  the  years,   months, 
&c.,  for  the  Lagna,  the  rising  degree,  are  the  same  as  the 
n  umber,  of  Navamsas  passed  over  (a]  (as  in   the  case  of 
planets) ;  but  if  the  rising  sign  be   powerful  (b\  then,  the 
number  of  signs  passed  over  represents  the  years,  months, 
&c.,  (c).    The  reduction  known  as  Krurodayaharana   does 
not  apply  to  Satyacharyar's  method.      In  the   case  of  ! the 
other  reductions,  the  years  given  in  the  first  stanza  ought 
not  to  be  employed  (</). 

NOTES. 

(a)  Beginning   from  the  next  preceding   Navamsa 
of  Aries. 

(b)  As  stated  in  Stanza  19,  Ch.  I. 

(c)  As  explained  in  Note    (d]    to  Stanza  2  of  this 
Chapter. 

(d)  That  is,  the  special  years  of  each  plarlet   accord- 
ing to  Satyacharya's   method  ought   to  be   subjected  to 
the  several  reductions. 

13.  In  the   matter    of  Ayurdaya,    the   method  of 
Satyacharya    (known      as     Amsayurdaya)     is   the    best 
(of  the  three  methods  of  Ayurdaya).     Objection  is  made 
to  it,  .on  the  ground,  that  the  planetary   years  have  to  be 


.  CH.  VII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  73 

multiplied  several  times  (a).  This  is  not  so;  where  any 
period  has  to  be  multiplied  by  several  numbers,  it  \\ill  be 
sufficient  if  the  period  is  multiplied  once  and  by  the 
largest  number  (b). 

NOTES. 

(a)  Suppose,  Mercury  to  occupy  sign  Virgo  which 
is  his  exaltation  sign  as  well  as  his  house.  It  would 
seem  that  under  Stanza  11,  Mercury's  years  should 
first  be  trebled  and  then  doubled.  Is  this  to  be  done'? 
Again,  suppose  Mercury  to  occupy  the  last  Navamsa 
of  sign  Virgo  which  is  his  Vargottama  position.  His 
years,  it  would  appear,  have  to  be  doubled  on  that 
account.  Already,  we  found  that  for  being  in  his  house, 
his  years  had  to  be  doubled.  The  question  is  whether 
the  years  of  Mercury  have  to  be  doubled  twice.  Again, 
suppose  Mercury  while  occupying  Virgo  his  exaltation 
sign  is  also  retrograde  in  his  motion  for  which  his  years 
have  to  be  trebled.  Are  his  years  then  to  be  trebled  twice? 
No. 

(3)  If  any  period  has  to  be  doubled  twice  or  thrice, 
it  will  be  enough  if  it  be  doubled  but  once,  and  where 
the  period  has  to  be  trebled  twice  or  thrice,  it  will  be 
enough  if  it  be  trebled  but  once.  Again,  if  any  period 
has  to  be  both  doubled  and  trebled,  it  will  be  enough  if 
it  be  only  trebled. 

According  to  Maniltha  and  Saravali,  if  the  lord 
of  the  rising  sign  be  a  powerful  planet,  the  Amsayur- 
daya  method  should  be  followed  ;  if  the  Sun  be  power- 
ful, the  Pindayurdaya  method  should  be  followed  j  if 
the  Mcon  be  powerful,  the  Naisargika  method  should  be 
followed. 

According  to  others,  both  Pindayurdaya  and    Amsa- 
kayurdaya  should    be   adopted    in   the    division   of  life 
in  Dasas   and  Antardasas  and  events  predicted  by  both. 
Bhattotpala  is  in  favour  of  Amsakayurdaya, 
10 


'74  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  VIL 

•14.  The  life  of  a  person  born  when  sign  Cancer  is 
rising,  when  Jupiter  and  the  Moon  occupy  such  rising 
sign,  when  .Mercury  and  Venus  occupy  the  Kendras  and 
the  other  planets  occupy  the  llth,  6th  and  the  3rd  houses 
is  not  subject  to  ordinary  calculation,  but  far  exceeds  the 
maximum  .period  of  the  normal  human  existence  («). 

NOTES- 

(a]  In  other  words,  the  ordinary  Ayurdaya  rules 
-for  ascertaining  the  length  of  a  man's  life  do  not  apply  to 
the  horoscope  mentioned  in  the  text.  For  further  parti- 
.eulars,  vide,  Notes  at  the  end  of  Chapter  IX. 


Notes.— It  may  be  interesting  to  quote  here  a  few 
.horoscopes  of  the  nature  of  the  one  referred  to  in  the  last 
stanza  to  which  the  ordinary  Ayurdaya  rules  do  not 
apply.  These  are  mainly  the  horoscopes  of  eminent 
sages  who  are  supposed  to  live  for  several  centuries. 

1.  The  rising  sign  is  Leo  and  Jupiter  occupies  it ; 
Venus  occupies  Cancer,  Mercury  the    2nd    house    Virgo, 
.and  the  malefic  planets  occupy  the  Upachaya  places,  viz., 
•the  3rd,  6th,  10th,  and  the  llth  houses.     A  person  born 
•iii  the  above  yoga  will  live  for  1,000  years. 

2.  The   Sun  and  Mars  occupy  the  4th  house    from 
•the  ascendant ;  Saturn  occupies  the  rising  sign,  Rahu  the 

12th  house  and  the  other  planets  the  8th  house.     A  per- 
son born  in  the  above  yoga  will  live  for  2,000  years. 

3.  The  rising  sign  is    Aries  and  the  Sun   occupies 
it.    .Saturn  occupies   the  4th  or  the  9th  house,  Mars  the 
7th  house  and  powerful  Moon  the  12th  house.     A  person 
born  in  the  above  yoga  will  live  for    2,000   years   by   the 
power  of  drugs. 

.  4.  The  rising  sign  is  Sagittari  or  Pisces  and  Jupi- 
ter occupies  it ;  sign  Gemini  is  unoccupied  and  Venus 
occupies  one  of  the  Kendra  houses,  A  person  born  in 


CH.  VII.]  Briiiat  Jdtakd.  75 

the  above  yoga  will  live  for  a  great  number  of  years   by 
the  power  of  drugs  and  will  attain  the  position  of  fndra. 

5.  If  all   the  planets  occupy  either  a  single  sign  or 
the  Trikona  or  the  Kendra  houses,  a  person  born  in   the 
above  yoga  will  either  die  immediately  after  birth  or  live 
for  a  yuga  by  the  power  of  mantras. 

6.  If  malefic  planets   do   not    occupy    the    Trikona 
houses,  benefic  planets  do  not  occupy  the  Kendra  houses, 
and  if  the  8th  house  be  not  occupied  by  a  malefic  planet, 
a  person  born  in  the  above  yoga  will  become  a  Deva. 

7.  The  rising  sign  is  Taurus   and   Venus   occupies 
it ;  Jupiter  occupies  one  of  the    Kendra   houses  and  the 
other  planets  occupy  the  3rd,   6th    and  the  llth   houses. 
A  person  born  under  the  yoga  will  become  a  Deva   after 
living  for  a  great  number  of  years  by  the  power  of  drugs 
and  mantras. 

8.  The   rising   sign    is   Cancer;    Saturn   occupies 
sign   Libra;   Jupiter  occupies  Capricorn  ;  and  the  Moon 
occupies  Taurus.  A  person  born  in  the  above  yoga  attains 
the  position  of  Brahma  after  living  a    great   many   years 
by  the  strength  of  drugs  and  mantras. 

9.  The  rising  sign  is  Cancer  and  Cancer  is  also  the 
rising  Navamsa ;  Jupiter    occupies   one   of  the    Kendra 
houses,   Mars  the  7th  house,    and  Venus  is  in    Simhasa- 
namsa  («).     A  person  born  in  the    above   yoga    will   live 
long  by  the  power  of  drugs. 

10.  The  rising  Navamsa   is    the   last  Navamsa    of 
sign  Virgo  and  Mercury  occupies  it ;  Jupiter  occupies  the 
7th  house  and  is  in  Gopuramsa  or  Saturn  is  in  Mridvamsa. 
A  person  born  under  the  above  yoga  will  live  for  an  infi- 
nite number  of  years. 

11.     Venus  is  in  Devalokamsa  ;  Mars  is  in  one  of  the 

(a)     For  an  explanation    of  these  Amsas  or  planetary   positions,   vide  the 
notes  at  the  end. 


76  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  Vlt. 

Kendra  houses  and  Jupiter  is  also  in  one  of  the  Kendra 
houses  and  is  in  Simhasanamsa.  A  person  born  in  the 
above  yoga  will  live  for  a  countless  number  of  years. 

12.  Venus  occupies  one  of  the  Kendra  houses  and 
is  in  -Vargottama  position  and   in  Paravatamsa  ;  Jupiter 
occupies  one  of  the  Kendra  houses  and  is  in  Swargalo- 
kamsa.     A  person  born  in  the  above  yoga  will  live  for  a 
countless  number  of  years  by  the  power  of  drugs. 

13.  Jupiter  occupies  one  of  the  Keudra  houses,  and 
is' in   Gopuramsa;   Venus   occupies  one  of  the  Trikona 
houses  and  is  in  Paravatamsa  and  the  rising  sign  is  Can- 
cer.    A  person  born   in   the   above  yoga  will  live  for  a 
yuga. 

14.  The  rising  sign  is  Cancer  and  Jupiter   occupies 
it  and  is  in  the  Navamsa  of  Sagittari  and  2  or  3  planets 
occupy  the  Kendras.     A  person  born  in  the  above    yoga 
will  live  long  and  attain  the  position  of  Brahma. 

15.  Venus  occupies  the  3rd  or  IHh  house  and  is  in 
Gopura   or   other   Amsas,   and   the  rising   Navamsa  is 
Taurus  of  sign  Taurus.     A  person  born  in   the  above 
yoga  will  live  long  and  attain  the  position  of  Brahma. 

J6.  Venus  occupies  the  rising  sign  ;  Jupiter  the  7th 
house;  the  Moon,  sign  Virgo,  and  the  rising  Navamsa  is 
Aries  of  sign  Sagittari.  A  person  born  in  the  above 
yoga  will  obtain  salvation. 

17.  Mercury   occupies  the    5th    house    and    is  in 
Gopura  or  other  Amsas ;  the  rising  sign  is  Aquarius  and 
Jupiter  occupies  it.     A   person  born  in  the  above   yoga 
will  attain  the  position  of  Brahma. 

1 8.  Jupiter   occupies   one   of  the   Kendra   houses. 
Saturn  occupies  the  llth  house  ;    the  Sun  occupies  the" 
2nd  house  ;  Gulika,  (the  higher  apsis  of  a  planet's  course) 
occupies  the  7th  house  and  Mars  occupies  the  9th  house. 
A  person  born  in  the  above  yoga  will  live  for  a  yuga. 


CH.  VII.]  Brihat  Jdtaka.  Tl 

19.  Jupiter  and  Mercury  are  in  the  Trikona  houses ; 
the  rising  sign  is  Taurus  and  Mars   occupies  it  and   the 
Moon  is  in  Gopuranisa.     A  person  born   in  the  above 
yoga  will  live  for  2,000  years. 

20.  Jupiter  occupies  one  of  the  Kendra  houses;  the 
rising  sign  is  Cancer,  Mars  occupies  the  7th  house  and 
Saturn  the  4th  house ;  the  time  of  birth  is  the  light  half 
of  the  month.  If  the  birth  of  a  person  occurs  in  the  above 
yoga  and  by  day  he  will  live  for  10,000  years. 

21.  Jupiter,  Saturn,  Mars  and  Venus   occupy   the 
Kendras  and  are  mutually  in  Kendra   positions   to  one 
another,  or  they  all  occupy  the  Trikona  houses.     A  per- 
son  born   in    either   of  the   above   yogas   will   live   for 
10,000  years. 

22.  Benefic   planets  occupy  the   Kendras;  Malefic 
planets  occupy  the  3rd,  6th,  and  llth  houses;  the    rising 
sign  is  Leo  and  Jupiter  occupies   it.     A  person  born  in 
the  above  yoga  will  live  for  60,000  years. 

23.  The  rising  sign  is   Capricorn,  and  planets  from 
Mars  to  the  Sun  occupy  it  excepting  Jupiter  who  occu- 
pies the  3rd  house.     A   person  born   in  the  above  yoga 
will  live  for  a  Kalpa. 

24.  The  last  Navauisa  of  sign  Aries  is  the   rising 
Navamsa  and  Jupiter  or  Venus   occupies  it;    the  Moon 
occupies  the  5th  Navamsa  of  Taurus  or  Sagittari  or  Mars 
is  in  Simhasanamsa.     A  person   born  in  the  above   yoga 
will  live  for  a  countless  number  of  years. 

25.  The  Sun  and  Mercury  occupy  fixed  signs;   the 
Moon  occupies  sign  Taurus,  and  Venus  sign  Gemini ;  the 
rising  sign  js  Cancer,  and  Jupiter  occupies  it,  or  the  rising  . 
sign  is  Libra  and  Saturn  occupies  it.    A  person  born  in 
the  above  yoga  will  become  a  J/«;/z'or  a  Rishi. 

26.  The  Moon  is  in  Devaiokamsa  ;  Mars  is  in  Para- 
vatauisa;  the  Sun  is  in  the  rising  sign  and  in  Simhasa.- 


78  Brihal  Jdtakd.  [Cu.  VII. 

namsa.     A  person  born  in  the  above  yoga   will  become  a 
Muni  or  a  Rislii. 

27.  The  Sun,  occupies  sign  Aries,  Jupiter  either  the 
9th  house  or  sign  Cancer  and  the  malefic  planets  occupy 
the  3rd,  6th  and  the  llth  houses.  A  person  born  in  the 
above  yoga  will  become  a  Muni. 

Amsas  explained. 

In  Chapter  I,  we  have  referred  to  the  six  modes  of  di 
vision   of  the   Ecliptic    known   as   Shadvarga.      Certain 
writers  have  four  more  divisions  known    as  Saptamamsa, 
Dasamsa,    Shodasamsa    and    Shashtyamsa.      These    ten 
divisions  of  the  Ecliptic  are  known  as  Dasavarga. 

Saptamamsa  is  the  division  of  a  sign  of  the  Zodiac 
into  7  equal  parts.  The  lords  of  the  7  parts  of  the  odd 
signs  are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  7  signs  of  the  Zodiac 
commencing  from  the  odd  sign ;  and  the  lords  of  the  7 
parts  of  the  even  signs  are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  7 
signs  of  the  Zodiac  beginning  from  the  7th  sign  from  the 
even  sign. 

Dasamsa  is  the  division  of  a  sign  of  the  Zodiac  into 
10  equal  parts.  The  lords  of  the  10  parts  of  the  odd  signs 
are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  10  signs  of  the  Zodiac  com- 
mencing from  the  odd  sign,  and  the  lords  of  the  10  parts 
of  the  even  signs  are  respectively  the  lords  of  the  10  signs 
commencing  from  the  10th  sign  from  the  even  sign. 

Shodasamsa  is.  the  division  of  a  sign  of  the  ecliptic 
into  16  equal  parts.  The  lords  of  the  16  parts  of  the  odd 
signs  are  the  lords  of  the  1.2  signs  commencing  from  the 
odd  sign  together  with  Brahma,  Vishnu,  Rudra  and  Surya  ; 
the  lords  of  the  16  parts  of  the  even  signs  are  the  lords  o£ 
the  12  signs  commencing  from  the  even  sign  together 
with  Surya,  Rudra,  Vishnu  and  Brahma. 

Shashtyamsa  is  the  division  of  a  sign  of  the  ecliptic 


CH,  VII.] 


Brihat  Jatakd. 


30 


into  60  equal   parts, 
those  of 

1.  Ghora. 

2.  Rakshasa. 

3.  Deva. 

4.  Kubera. 

5.  Rakshogana 

6.  Kinnara. 

7.  Bhrashta. 

8.  Kulaghna. 
i».  Garala. 

10.  Agni. 

11.  Maya. 


The  60   parts  of  the   odd  signs   are 


21.  Padma. 

22.  Lakshmi. 
28.  Vageesa. 
24.  Digambara. 

Deva. 

Ardra. 

Kalinasa. 

Kshitisvvara 

Kamalakara. 


25. 

26. 
27. 

28. 
29. 


30.  Mandatmaja. 
81.  Mrityu. 


41.  Kalinasa. 

42.  Mukhya. 

43.  Vamsakshaya. 

44.  Utpataka. 

45.  Kala-rupa. 

46.  Soumya. 

47.  Mridu. 

48.  Susitala. 

49.  Danish  trakarala. 

50.  Indumukha. 
'51.  Pravina. 

52.  Kalagni. 

33.  Davagni.          53.  Dandayudha. 

34.  Ghora.  54.  Nirmala. 

35.  Amaya.  55.  Subha. 

36.  Cantaka.          56.  Asubha. 

37.  Sudha.  57.  Atisitala. 

38.  Amrita.  58.  Sudha.  [na. 

39.  Poornachandra.59.  Payodhibhrama- 

40.  Vishapradigdha.60.Indurekha. 

And  the  60  parts  of  the  even  signs  are  the  above  in 
the  inverse  order;  that  is,  beginning  from  Indurekha  aud 
ending  in  Ghora. 

Now,  a  planet  which  occupies  his  particular  house, 
Navamsa,  Dwadasamsa,  Trimsamsa,  &c.,  is  said  to  be  in 
his  Varga.  A  planet  occupying  two  Vargas  is  said  to  he 
in  Parijatamsa  ;  if  he  occupies  three  Vargas,  he  is  said  to 
be  in  Uttamainsa ;  if  four  vargas,  in  "Gopuramsa  ;  if  ftve 
vargas,  in  Simhasanainsa  ;  if  six,  in  Paravatamsa ;  if  seven 
or  eight,  in  Devalokamsa ;  if  nine,  in  Airavatamsa  ;  and 
if  ten,  in  Vaiseshikamsa. 


12.  Pretupureesa.  32.  Kala. 

13.  Apampati. 

14.  Devaganesa. 

15.  Kala. 

16.  Ahi. 

17.  Amritamsa. 

18.  Chandra. 

19.  Mridu. 

20.  Komala. 


80  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [C'H.  VIII. 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

On  Planetary  Divisions  and  Sub- Divisions  of  Life 
Known  as  Dasas  and  Antardasas. 

1.  Determine  first  which  of  the  following  three  is 
powerful — (a)  the  Rising  Sign,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon. 
His  period  comes  first.  Then  follow  the  periods  of  the 
planets  occupying  the  Kendra  houses,  from  such  power- 
ful rising  sign  or  the  Sun  or  the  Moon.  Then  come  the 
periods  of  the  planets  occupying  the  Panaphara  houses 
from  the  same;  and  lastly  come  the  periods  of  planets 
occupying  the  Apoklima«  houses  (b).  If  there  be  no 
planets  in  the  Kendra  or  Panaphara  or  Apoklima  houses, 
then  the  periods  of  the  other  planets  come  in  the  order 
stated  (c). 

NOTES.  : 

(a)  111  more  ways  than  one  in  comparison  with  the 
other  two  according  to  Yavaneswara  (vide  Stanzas  19  to 
21  of  Ch.  II.  and  Stanza  19  of  Ch.  I). 

(3)  Tlie  order  in  which  come  the  periods  of  the 
several  planets  occupying  the  Kendra  or  the  Panaphara 
or  the  Apolclima  houses  is  given  in  the  next  stanza. 

(c)  In  other  words,  the  8  Dasa  periods  divide  into 
three  distinct  groups.  Those  of  the  planets  occupying  the  4 
Movable  signs  form  one  group  ;  those  of  the  planets  occupy- 
ing the  4  Fixed  signs  form  another  group  and  those  of  the 
planets  occupying  the  4  Common  signs  form  a  third 
group.  Now,  if  the  L,agna,  the  Sun  or  the  Moon 
whichever  is  more  powerful  than  the  other  two,  occupy  a 
Movable  sign,  the  Movable  group  comes  first,  the  Fixed 
group  comes  next  and  the  Common  group  comes  last.  If 
it  occupy  a  fixed  sign,  the  Fixed  group  comes  first,  the 
Common  group  comes  next  and  the  Movable  group  comes 
last.  And  if  it  occupy  a  Common  sign,  the  Common  group 
comes  first,  the  Movable  group  comes  next  and  the  Fixed 


CH.  VIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  81 

group  comes  last.    The   group  that  comes  first  is  always 
headed  by  the  powerful  Lagna,  the  Sun  or  the  Moon. 

2.  The  lengths  of   the  several   planetary   periods 
known  as  Dasas  are  the  same  as  those  of  the  planets  as 
found  in  the  last  Chapter.     Again,  of  the  several  planets 
occupying  the  Kendra  or  Panapbara  or  Apoklima  houses, 
the  Dasa  period  of  the  most  powerful  planet  comes  first 
then   comes     that   of   the     planet     next  in    power    and 
so  on  ;  but  if  the  planets  be  of  equal  power  (a],  the  Dasa 
period  of  the  planet   whose  period   is  the  longest   comes 
first  ;  and  if  the  planets  be  of  equal   power  and   period, 
then,  the  period  of  the  planet  which  rises  first  (&)   comes 
first. 

NOTES. 

(a)  For  instance,  there    are   five    ways  of  judging 
the   strength    of  the  planets.     Now,  out  of  Sthanabala, 
Dikbala,    Chestabala,    Kalabala   and     Grahadarsanabala, 
suppose  Saturn  to  be  powerful  in  3  ways  and    Mars  in  2 
ways;  now,  as  Mars  possesses  Naisargika  strength  over 
Saturn,  Mars  and  Saturn  are  said  to  be  of  equal  power. 

(b]  That  is,    reappears   after   its  conjunction    with 
the  Sun,  according  to    Garga.     Taking  Stanzas  1    and  2 
together,  we   find    that   the   dasa   period   of  the   Lagna 
or  the  Sun  or  the  Moon,  whichever  is  most  powerful,  comes 
first.     Then  come  the   periods  of  the   planets  occupying 
the  Kendra  houses,  in  the  order  stated.     Then  come  the 
periods  of  the  planets   occupying  the  Panaphara  houses 
in  the  same  order,  and  lastly  those  of  the  planets  occupy- 
ing the  Apoklima  houses  in  the  same  order. 

3.  The  period  of  the   Antardasa    (a)     (sub-division 
of  planetary  period)  of  the  planet  (b}     occupying  the  same 
house  as  the  lord  of    the  Dasa    period,  is  one-half  of  the 
Antardasa  period  of  such  lord.     The  Autardasa  periods  of 
the  planets  occupying   the  5th  and  the   9th   houses  from 
the  lord  of  the  Dasa  period,  are,  each,  one-third  ;  those  of 

11 


82  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  VIII. 

the  planets  occupying  the  7th  house  from  the  lord  are, 
each,  one  seventh ;  and  those  of  the  planets,  occupying  the 
4th  and.  the  8th  houses  from  the  lord,  are,  each,  one-fourth 
of  the  Antardasa  period  of  the  lord.  The  Antardasa 
periods  of  the  Lagna-dasa  shall  be  determined  in  the 
same  way. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Planetary  divisions  of  life  are  known  as  Dasa 
periods  and  planetary  sub-divisions  of  life  ate  known  as 
the  Antardasa  periods. 

(3)  The  Antardasa  periods  of  a  particular  Dasa  period 
of  a  planet  come  in  the  order  stated  in  the  text,  rvb.? 
first  comes  the  Antardasa  period  of  the  planet  itself,  then 
that  of  the  planet  occupying  the  same  house  as  the  lord  of 
the  Dasa  period,  then  that  of  the  planet  occupying  the  5th 
or  the  9th  house  from  the  lord,  then  that  of  the  planet 
occupying  the  7th  house  from  the  lord,  and  lastly  that  of 
the  planet  occupying  the  4th  or  the  8th  house  from  such 
lord.  If  several  planets  occupy  the  same  house  as  the 
lord  of  the  Dasa  period,  the  lord  of  the  Antardasa  is  the 
most  powerful  of  them.  Similarly,  if  several  planets 
occupy  the  5th  or  the  9th  house  or  the  7th  house  or  the 
4th  or  the  8th  house  from  the  sign  occupied  by  the  lord 
of  the  Dasa,  the  lord  of  the  Antardasa  is  the  most  powerful 
planet.  If  there  be  several  planets  in  the  5th  or  the  9th 
house,  then  the  fraction  for  the  powerful  planet  of  each 
is  £.  Similarly,  if  there  be  several  planets  in  the  4th  or 
the  8th  house,  the  fraction  for  the  powerful  planet  of  each 
is  £.  If  there  be  no  planets  in  any  of  these  places,  the  An- 
tardasa periods  of  the  other  planets  alone  should  be  taken. 

4.  The  fractions  (a)  should  all  be  made  to  have  a 
common  denominator  with  different  numerators.  The 
Dasa  period  should  be  divided  by  the  sum  of  the  numera- 
tors and  the  quotient  when  multiplied  by  the  several 
numerators  will  give  the  periods  of  the  several  Antardasas. 


CH.  Vlii.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  83 

NOTES. 

(a)     That  is  i,  \,  -*-,  -£,  ^,  |,  -f,  are  all  the  possible  ones. 

Suppose  for  instance,  there  are  planets  in  the  several 
places  referred  to  in  the  last  stanza  excepting,  say,  the  7th 
house  from  the  signs  occupied  by  the  lord  of  the  Dasa. 
The  periods  of  the  four  Antardasas — those  of  (1)  the  lord 
o£  the  Dasa,  (2)  the  planet  with  it,  (3)  the  planet  occupy- 
ing the  5th  or  the  9th  house  from  it,  and  (4)  the  planet 
occupying  the  4th  or  the  8th  house  from  it— are  in  the 
proportion  of  •]-  :  |  :  \ :  :  \.  Reducing  these  to  fractions 
with  a  common  denominator,  we  get  || :  ^\ :  T\  :  -fa ; 
in  other  words,  the  Antardasa  periods  are  in  the  propor- 
tion of  12:  6  :  4  :  3.  The  sum  of  these  numbers  is  25  ;  if, 
therefore,  the  Dasa  period  be  divided  by  25  and  the  quo- 
tient multiplied  by  12,  6,4  and  3,  we  shall  obtain  the 
periods  of  the  four  Antardasas. 

5.  The  Dasa  period  (a)  of  the  most  powerful  (b) 
planet  occupying  at  the  time  of  birth  the  exaltation  degree 
of  its  exaltation  sign,  (c}  is  known  as  Sampurna  (a).  The 
dasa  period  of  a  weak  planet  occupying  the  depression 
degree  of  its  depression  sign  is  known  as  Rikta  (e).  The 
dasa  period  of  a  planet  occupying  an  inimical  Navamsa 
and  also  the  depression  degree  of  its  depression  sign  is 
known  as  Anishta. 

NOTES. 

(<?)  As  well  as  the  Antardasa  period  in  this  and  in 
the  next  two  cases  mentioned  in  the  text. 

(b)  Powerful  in  every  way  vide  Stanzas,  19  to  21,  Ch, 
II. 

(c)  And  also  the  dasa  period  of  a  planet  though  not 
powerful  occupying  the  exaltation  degree  of  its  exaltation 
sign,  according  to  the  Commentator, 

(d)  The  dasa  period  of  a   planet   occupying   simply 
its  exaltation  sign  and   not  very  powerful   is   known   as 
Poortia, 


64  Brihat  Jdlakd.  [Cn.  Vlli. 

0?)  The  dasa  -period  of  a  weak  planet  occupying 
simply  its  depression  sign  is  also  known  as  Rikta. 

6.  The  dasa   period    (a)  of  a  planet   which  quitting 
the  exaltation  degree  moves  towards   the   depression  sign 
is  known  as  Avarohini  (b}\  while  so  moving,  if  the  planet 
occupy  a  friendly  or  an   exaltation  Navarnsa  (c),  his  dasa 
period  is  known  as  Madhyama.     Again,  the  dasa  period  of 
a  planet  which   quitting   the  depression    degree   moves 
towards  its  exaltation  sign  is  known  as  A  rohini  (d)  ;  while 
so  moving,  if  the  the  planet  occupy  an  inimical  or  a  de- 
pression Navamsa,  his  dasa  period  is  known  as  Adhaina  (e)* 

NOTES. 

(a)  As  well  as  the  Autardasa  period  according  to  the 
Commentator. 

(b)  Such  dasa  periods  produce  evil. 

(c}  Or  his  own  Navamsa  according  to  the  Commen- 
tator. Exaltation  Navamsa  is  one  which  bears  the  name 
of  the  exaltation  sign. 

(d)  Such  dasa  periods  produce  prosperity. 

(e)  Arohini   dasas    and  Madhyama     dasas  produce 
prosperity  and  Avarohini   dasas  and  Adhama    dasas  pro- 
duce evil.     A  planet   which  occupies   a  neutral    sign  or 
Navamsa  produce  neither  good  nor  evil. 

7.  The  dasa  period  (#)  of  a  planet,  which  occupies  a 
depression  or  an  inimical  Navamsa,  when  in  a   good  posi- 
tion (b\  is  known  as  Nisraphala  (c\     The  several  names  of 
the  dasas  indicate  by  their-ineauing  the  nature  of  the  dasa 
periods  (d}.    We  shall  describe  (in  the  course  of  this  Chap- 
ter) (e)  the  effects  of  the  several  planetary  dasas. 

NOTES. 

(a)  As  well  as  the  Autardasa  period  according  to 
the  Commentator. 

(ft)  That  is,  when  the  planet  occupies  his  own  house, 
a  friendly  house  or  his  Moolatrikona  or  exaltation  house. 


CH.  VIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  85 

(c)  Similarly,  the  dasa  period  of  a  planet  whicli  occu- 
pies an  inimical  or  depression  sign  and  is  in  his  own  Na- 
vamsa,   in    a   friendly    Navamsa   or    a    Moolatrikona  or 
exaltation  Navamsa,  or  if  he  occupies  a  Vargottama  place 
is  also  known  as  Misraphala. 

(d)  E.g.   The  name  Sampurna   indicates  vast  pros- 
perity.    Poorna  indicates  prosperity.     Adhama  indicates 
misery  or  destruction  and  very   little  prosperity.     Rikta 
indicates  misery  and  poverty.     And  Misraphala  indicates 
a  mixture  of  both  good  and  evil. 

e)     From  Stanza  ]  2  of  this  Chapter. 

8.  According  as  the  rising  Drekkana  is  the  first, 
second  or  third,  the  Lagna  dasa  is  known  as  Adhama, 
Madhyama  or  Uttama  if  the  rising  sign  be  a  common  sign  ; 
Uttama,  Madhyama  or  Adhama  if  the  rising  sign  be  a 
movable  sign  ;  and  Adhama,  Uttama  or  Madhyama  if  the 
rising  sign  be  a  fixed  sign. 

NOTES. 

In  other  words,  if  the  rising  sign  be  one  of  the  com- 
mon signs,  Gemini,  Virgo,  Sagittari  and  Pisces,  the 
Lagna  dasa  is  known  as  Adhama  if  the  rising  Drekkana 
be  the  1st,  Madhyama  if  it  be  the  2nd,  and  Uttama  or 
Pujita  if  it  be  the  3rd.  Again,  if  the  rising  sign  be  one 
of  the  movable  signs,  Aries,  Cancer,  Libra  and  Capricorn, 
the  Lagna  dasa  is  known  as  Uttama  if  the  rising  Drek- 
kana be  the  1st,  Madhyama  if  it  be  the  2t.d,  and  Adhama 
if  it  be  the  3rd.  Lastly,  if  the  rising  sign  be  one  of  the 
fixed  signs,  Taurus,  Leo,  Scorpio,  and  Aquarius,  the 
Lagna  dasa  is  known  as  Adhama  or  Asubha  if  the  rising 
Drekkana  be  the  1st,  Uttama  or  Ishta  if  it  be  the  2nd, 
and  Madhyama  or  Sama  if  it  be  the  3rd.  These  names 
indicate,  as  already  stated,  the  nature  of  the  dasa  period. 
E-g.  Adhama  indicates  misery,  Madhyama  a  mixture  of 
both  good  and  evil,  and  Uttama  indicates  prosperity* 


86  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  VIII. 

9.  The  Naisargika  (natural)  dasas  in  the  case  of  all 
creatures  are  those  of  the  Moon,   Mars,   Mercury,  Venus, 
Jupiter,  the  Sun  and  Saturn  in  the  order  stated,  and  their 
periods  are   respectively   1,  2,  9,  20,  18,  20  and  50  years 
(a}.     If  the  Naisargika  dasa  period  and  the  ordinary  pla- 
netary dasa  (b)  period  happen  to  run  together,  such  period 
(c)  will  be  a  prosperous  one.     According  to  Yavaneswara, 
the  closing  period  (d)  is  the  Naisargika  Lagna  dasa  and 
produces  prosperity.     This  is  objected  to  by  some. 

NOTES. 

(a)  In  all   120  years.     If  the  lord  of   the  Naisargi- 
ka dasa  period  be  powerful  and  occupy  any   of  the  Upa- 
chaya  places,  he  will  produce  prosperity  ;  and  if  he  be  weak 
and  occupy  an  Anupachaya  place  he  will  produce  evil. 

(b)  Or    Antardasa    period    according  to    the  Com- 
mentator. 

(c)  A  similar   remark    applies    to    the    Autardasa 
periods. 

(d)  The  period  of  life  after  120  years. 

10.  If  the   lord  of  the  dasa   period   or  one  of   his 
friendly  planets  occupy  the  Lagna  (a),  or  if  the   Lagna 
belong  to  the  Varga  (division)  (b)  of  the  lord  of  the  dasa 
period,  or  if  a  benefic  planet  occupy  the  Lagna,  or  if  the 
lord  of  the  dasa  period  occupy  the  3rd,   6th,   10th   or  the 
llth  house  from  the  Lagna,  such  dasa  period  (c)  will  be  a 
prosperous  one  (d}. 

Again,  when  the  Moon  occupies  (e)  a  sign  friendly  (/) 
to  the  lord  of  the  dasa  (g)  or  the  exaltation  sign  of  the 
lord  of  the  dasa  or  the  3rd,  6th,  10th,  llth,  5th,  9th  or 
the  7th  house  (h)  from  the  sign  occupied  by  the  lord  of 
the  dasa  period,  she  will  bring  on  prosperity ;  otherwise 
(i),  she  will  produce  misery. 

NOTES. 

(a")  Lagna:  This  is  interpreted  to  mean  the  rising 
sigti  at  the  moment  of  the  eommeiicement  of  the  dasa 


CH.  VIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  87 

period ;  so  that,  the  hour  of  commencement  of  a  dasa 
period  must  first  be  ascertained  and  a  figure  of  the  Heavens 
drawn  up  for  the  hour.  It  is  absolutely  impossible  to 
determine  the  Lagna  at  the  commencement  of  the  Dasa, 
much  less  its  Varga  (Division). 

(b)  Varga :  If,  for  instance,  the  Lagua  be  the  sign, 
Hora,  Drekkana,  Navamsa,  Dwadasamsa  or  Trimsainsa  of 
the  lord  of  Dasa  period. 

(c)  Or  Antardasa  period   according   to   the    Com- 
mentator. 

(d}  If  either  the  friendly  planet  or  the  benefic 
planet  occupying  the  Lagna  be  an  Atimitra  planet  to  the 
lord  of  the  dasa  period,  such  period  will  be  a  very  prospe- 
rous one ;  if  such  benefic  planet  be  an  Atisatru  planet, 
the  period  will  not  be  a  prosperous  one ;  but  if  the  planet 
be  a  neutral  one,  just  the  effects  of  the  dasa  period  will 
occur. 

(e)  The    Moon  causes  prosperity    while   it    passes 
through  the  several  places  mentioned  in  the  text.     These 
places  are  with  reference  to   the  signs    occupied   by   the 
lords  of  the  Dasa  and  Antardasa  periods  in  the  course  of 
their  motions  in  the  ecliptic. 

(f)  Friendly  for  the  time  being. 

(g)  Or  Antardasas  according  to  the  Commentator. 
(/;)      Vide,  note  (e). 

(/')  That  is  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
other  places. 

The  first  para,  of  the  text  will  determine  the  charac- 
ter of  the  Dasa  and  Antardasa  period.  The  se'cond  para, 
will  enable  a  person  to  determine  the  happy  or  unhappy 
days  indicated  by  the  Dasa  and  Antardasa  periods.  It 
will  also  enable  one  to  determine  which  of  the  12  Bhavas 
from  the  rising  sign  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occu- 
pies (for  the  time  being).  The  good  or  bad  effects  will 


88  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  VIII. 

affect   according   to   Garga  the   object   signified  by  the 
several  Bhavas — Vide,  Stanza  15,  Ch.  I. 

11.  If,  at  the  time   of  commencement  of  the    Dasa 
period  of  a  planet,  the  Moon  occupy   sign  Cancer,  the 
native  will  become  rich,  will  live  in  comfort  and  will  be  res- 
pected ;  if,  at  the  time,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Aries  or  sign 
Scorpio,  his  wife  will  become  unchaste ;  if  the  Moon  occupy 
either  sign  Gemini  or  sign  Virgo,  the  person  will  become 
learned,  get  friends  and   become  rich  ;  if  the  Moon  occu- 
py sign  Leo,  the  person  will  work  in  forests,  on  roads  and 
near  houses ;  if  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Taurus  or  sign  Libra, 
he  will  eat  sumptuous  meals  ;   if  she   occupy   sign  Capri- 
corn  or  sign  Aquarius,  he  will  get  a  bad   woman  ;  and  if 
the   Moon  occupy   sign   Sagittari   or    sign    Pisces,    the 
person   will  become  rich,   happy  and  respected. 

12.  In  the  dasa  period  (a)  of  the  Sun,  a  person  will 
acquire  wealth  by  dealing   in  perfumes  or  nails,   tusks  of 
elephants  and  the  like  animals,  in  tiger  skin  and  the  like, 
in  gold,  by  acts  of  cruelty,  by  means  of  roads,  by  the  king 
and  by  battle.  He  will  become  cruel,  courageous,  persever- 
ing, renowned  and  valorous,  will  get  into  trouble  through 
his  wife,  son,  money,  enemy,  weapons,   fire    or  the  king ; 
and  he  will  become  liberal  in  gifts  and  addicted  to  sinful 
deeds  ;  he  will  quarrel  with  his  servants  and  will  become 
afflicted   with  pain  in    his  chest  and   belly   and   the  like 
diseases. 

NOTES. 

(#)  Or  Antardasa  period  according  to  the  Commen- 
tator. The  technical  names,  such  as  Sampurna,  Adhama, 
&c.,  given  to  the  planets  indicate  the  benefic  or  the  malefic 
character  of  their  Dasa  period — Vide  note  (d)  to  Stanza  7. 

If  the  dasa  period  be  good,  the  good  effects  alone 
will  come  to  pass  and  if  bad,  the  bad  effects  alone  will 
come  to  pass  ;  and  if  both,  the  effects  will  be  both  good 
and  bad —  Vide,  Stanza  1 9. 


CH.  VIU.]  Brihat  Utakd.  89 

13.  In  the  Dasa  period  of  the  Moon,  the  person  will 
derive  benefits  from  dealing  in  or  by  means  of  the  mantras, 
the  Brahmins,  the  productions  of  sugar-cane,  milk,  ghee, 
and  the  like,  cloth,  flower,  play,  sesamum  seeds,  and  food  ; 
he  will  be  of  patient  nature  ;  he  will   respect  virtuous 
Brahmins  and  the  Devas  ;  he  will  get  daughters  and  will 
acquire  an  increase  of  wisdom,  wealth  and  renown. 

The  person  will  indulge  in  sleep  and  idleness,  will 
lose  his  wisdom,  wealth  and  renown  and  will  quarrel  with 
powerful  men  and  with  kinsmen. 

14.  In   the   Dasa  period   of  Mars,  the  person  will 
acquire  wealth,  by  fighting  with  his  enemies,  through  his 
brother,  the  king,  lands,  woollen  goods  and  goats, 

He  will  hate  his  sons,  friends,  wife,  and  brothers 
and  will  dislike  learned  men  and  men  of  importance ;  he 
will  suffer  from  diseases  caused  by  or  connected  with 
thirst,  blood,  fever,  bile,  loss  of  limbs  or  sexual  inter- 
course with  other  women.  He  will  associate  with  men 
doing  wicked  deeds;  he  will  become  vicious,  harsh  in 
speech  and  cruel. 

15.  In  the  Dasa  period  of  Mercury,  the  person  will 
acquire   wealth  by  doing  acts  of  message  and   through 
friends,    preceptors   and    Brahmins.     His  praises  will  be 
sung  by  learned  men.     He  will    become  famous   and  will 
get  brass  and  the  like  mixed  metals,   gold,   horses,  lands, 
popularity,  comfort  and  ease.     He  will  be   skilled   in  the 
art  of  ridiculing   others   and   serving   under   other   men. 
He  will  get  an  increase   of  wisdom    and  successfully   do 
deeds  of  virtue. 

He  will  suffer  from  harsh  words,  will  suffer  from  grief, 
imprisonment,  pain  of  mind  and  diseases  arising  from  an 
affection  of  the  three  dhatus—vata  (the  air),  pitta  (bile), 
and  sleshma  (phlegm). 

16.  In  the  dasa   period  of  Jupiter,    the  person  will 
acquire  wealth  by  acts  of  worship,  by  his  learning,  valour 

12 


90  Brihal  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  VIII. 

ingenuity,  bright  personal  appearance,  military  fame,  by 
acts  of  generosity,  mantras,  diplomacy,  the  king  and  the 
Vedas.  He  will  have  an  increase  of  gold,  horses,  sons, 
elephants  and  cloths,  and  will  acquire  the  friendship  of 
good  kings. 

He  will  learn  things  requiring  much  ingenuity,  will 
suffer  from  foot  journey  and  pain  in  the  ear  and  will 
quarrel  with  wicked  men. 

17.  In  the  Dasa  period  of  Venus,  the  person  will 
enjoy  sweet  music,  various  pleasures,  perfumes,  sump- 
tuous meals,  alcohol,  fine  cloths,  women,  and  precious 
stones.  He  will  be  of  fine  appearance,  valorous,  and  will 
enjoy  every  substance  provoking  sexual  passion,  will  be- 
come learned  in  the  Sastras,  will  obtain  the  object  of  his 
desire,  will  acquire  friends,  will  become  skilled  in  trade 
and  in  Agriculture  and  will  get  hidden  treasures  and 
wealth. 

He  will  quarrel  with  crowds  of  people,  with  the 
king,  hunters  and  wicked  men  and  he  will  suffer  grief 
from  his  own  friends. 

NOTES. 

(a)     Yoga  Sastra  according  to  the  Commentator. 

18.  In  the  Dasa  period  of  Saturn,  the  person  will  get 
asses,  camels,  birds,  buffaloes  and  old  women,  will  rule 
over  hamlets,  villages  or  towns,  and  will  thereby  become 
renowned  and  will  get  grain  of  inferior  quality. 

He  will  suffer  difficulties  from  phlegmatic  and  windy 
complaints  ;  from  jealousy,  anger,  distraclion  of  mind, 
and  dirty  habits.  He  will  be  idle,  suffer  from  grief  and  be 
much  troubled.  His  servants,  sons,  daughters  and  wife 
will  exercise  authority  over  him  and  his  organs  will 
become  defective. 

19.  If  the  dasa  period  be  a  benefic  one,  the  good 
effects  will  come  to  pass  ;  if  it  be  a  malefic  one,  the  bad 


CH.  VIlL]  Brihattttakd.  91 

effects  will  coine  to  pass.  If  it  be  of  a  mixed  nature,  both 
effects  will  come  to  pass.  The  effects  for  the  Lagna  Dasa 
are  the  same  as  the  effects  for  the  dasa  period  of  the  lord 
of  the  rising  sign. 

NOTES. 

As  stated  already,  the  character,  whether  benefic  or 
malefic  of  a  dasa  period,  is  to  be  determined  from  the  tech- 
nical names  given  to  the  lord  of  the  period — ( Vide  Stanzas 
5  to  8.)  Again,  if,  at  the  time  of  birth,  any  of  the  planets 
occupy  the  Upachaya  houses,  be  of  bright  discs  and  of 
distinct  motion,  the  effects  will  be  good  in  their  dasa  pe- 
riods. But,  if  the  planets  occupy  the  Apachaya  signs, 
suffer  defeat  in  conjunction,  be  of  disagreeable  appearance 
or  of  small  discs,  the  effects  will  be  bad  in  their  dasa  pe- 
riods. The  planets,  which,  at  the  time  of  commencement 
of  their  Antardasa  periods  might  be  aspected  by  benefic 
planets  or  occupy  the  Vargas  (divisions)  of  benefic  or 
Atimitra  (very  friendly)  plauets,  are  powerful  and  will  not 
cause  death ;  if  they  be  situated  otherwise,  they  will  cause 
death. 

20.  In  the  benefic  Dasa  periods  of  the  planets,  a  per- 
son will  acquire  the  several  metals  assigned  to  the  planets, 
(vide  Chapter  II,  12)  and  in  the  malefic  Dasa  periods  of 
the  planets,  he  will  lose  them.  Again,  in  the  Dasa  period 
of  a  planet,  a  person's  occupation  will  be  that  mentioned 
for  the  planet  (a}.  The  effects  described  for  the  12  houses 
from  the  ascendant,  (6)  for  the  12  signs  from  Aries,  (c)  for 
planetary  aspects  (d)  and  for  all  yogas  (e)  excepting 
Nabhasa  yogas  (/)  will  occur  in  the  Dasa  period  of  the 
planet  which  is  most  powerful  among  the  yoga  plauets.  (g) 

NOTES. 

(a)  Vide  Stanzas  2,  3  and  4,  Ch.  10. 

(b)  Chapter  20. 

(c)  Chapter  18. 


92  Bnhat  JataM.  [C«.  VIlL 

0)    Chapter  19. 

(*)     Chapters  11,  13,  14,  15  and  21. 
(/)    The  effects  of  the   Nabhasa   yogas   will   be   felt 
throughout  life—  Vide,  Stanza  19,  Ch.  12. 
(g)     Vide  also  Stanza  5,  Ch.  22. 

21.  In  the  Dasa  period  of  a  particular  planet,  the 
person's  complexion  will  be  that  due  to  the  elementary 
principles  presided  over  by  the  planet  and  the  complexion 
will  be  accompanied  by  certain  other  qualities  due  to  the 
elementary  principles  of  earth,  water,  fire  and  Akas  and 
discernible  by  their  respective  organs  of  sense,  viz.,  the 
nose,  the  tongue,  the  eyes,  the  body  and  the  ears. 

NOTES. 

Physical  man  is  a  composition  of  the  five  elementary 
principles — earth,  water,  fire,  air  and  Akas  (ether)  :  Mer- 
cury presides  over  earth  ;  Venus  and  the  Moon  over  water ; 
Mars  and  the  Sun  over  fire;  Saturn  over  air;  and  Jupiter 
over  Akas.  (Ch  II.,  St.  6).  In  the  Dasa  period  of  a  parti- 
cular planet,  his  elementary  principles  will  predominate 
and  the  complexion  of  the  person  during  such  period  will 
be  that  due  to  the  particular  elementary  principle.  Varaha 
Mihira,  in  Chapter  68  of  his  Brihat  Samhita  (Stanzas  90 
to  93  )  has  thus  stated  in  detail  the  complexion  due  to 
each  of  the  seven  planets  : 

"The  complexion  discernible  in  shining  teeth,  skin, 
nails  and  hairs  of  the  body  and  of  the  head  will  be  attend- 
ed with  prosperity ;  it  is  caused  by  the  element  of  earth ; 
it  makes  the  person  happy,  rich  and  virtuous." 

"  The  complexion  which  is  glossy,  white,  clear,  green 
and  agreeable  to  look  at  is  caused  by  the  element  of 
water  ;  it  will  make  all  creatures  possessing  it  happy  and 
successful  in  all  their  attempts  and  will  produce  wealth, 
comfort,  luxury  and  prosperity." 

"The  complexion  which  is  fearful,  unbearable,  of  the 
Color  of  the  lotus,  gold  or  fire,  and  indicating  strength, 


CH.  VIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  9$ 

power  and  valor,  is  caused  by  the  element  of  fire,  and  it 
brings  success  to  a  person  and  enables  him  to  gain  his 
desired  object." 

"The  complexion  which  is  dirty,  not  glossy,  black 
and  of  bad  scent,  is  caused  by  the  element  of  air  ;  it  will 
cause  to  the  person  death  or  imprisonment,  disease,  ruin 
and  loss  of  wealth.'' 

"  The  complexion  which  is  of  the  color  of  crystal, 
noble,  clear  and  indicating  wealth  and  generosity,  is 
caused  by  the  element  of  ether ;  it  gives  a  person  all  that 
he  desires." 

Now,  suppose  the  Dasa  period  to  be  that  of  Mars ;  his 
element  is  fire ;  the  complexion  caused  by  the  elementary 
principle  of  fire  described  above  will  be  the  complexion 
of  a  person  in  the  Dasa  period  of  Mars  and  so  for  the 
other  planets. 

Again,  the  property  of  earth  is  smell,  discernible  by 
the  nose  ;  that  of  water  is  taste  discernible  by  the  toiigue  ; 
that  of  fire  or  light  is  shape  or  appearance  discernible  by 
the  eyes;  that  of  air  is  touch  discernible  by  the  body  ;  and 
that  of  Akas  is  sound  discernible  by  the  ears.  Suppose 
the  Dasa  period  to  be  that  of  Venus ;  his  element  is 
water  ;  the  quality  belonging  to  water  is  taste  discerni- 
ble by  the  tongue.  Therefore,  in  the  dasa  period  of 
Venus,  the  person  will  eat  juicy  meals  according  to  his 
desire.  In  the  Dasa  period  of  Jupiter  (Akas — sound),  the 
person's  speech  will  be  sweet  and  agreeable  to  the  ear  ; 
in  the  period  of  Mercury  (earth—  smell),  the  person's 
body  will  be  with  an  agreeable  odour  ;  in  that  of  Mars 
(fire — shape),  he  will  be  of  an  agreeable  appearance ;  and  in 
that  of  Saturn  (air — touch),  he  will  be  of  soft  body. 

From  a  careful  observation  of  these  qualities  and  also 
the  effects  of  the  Dasa  periods  ( Vide,  Stanzas  10  to  21,  Ch. 
8)  and  Antardasa  periods  (Stanzas  2,  3, 4?,  Ch.  iO)  the  parti- 
cular dasa  period  of  a  person  may  also  be  determined, 


94  frrihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  Vlll. 

22.  In  the  benefic  dasa  period  of  a  planet,  the  good 
effects  are  caused  immediately  by  the  Divine  Soul  living 
within   the   body   and   assuming   for  the   time   being  a 
benefic  character  (a).  When  a  person  is  found  to  enjoy  the 
good  effects  described  for  a  planetary  Dasa  period,  it  may 
be  concluded  that  such   dasa  period   is   going  on  at  the 
time.     As  regards  the  effects  described  for  planets  which 
might  be  powerless,    these   are   experienced  by  a  person 
either  in  his  dream  or  in  mental  reveries  (b). 

NOTES- 

(<z)  If  the  dasa  period  be  a  malefic  one,  the  Divine 
soul  assumes  a  malefic  character  for  the  time,  and  pro- 
duces evil,  and  if  the  period  be  of  a  mixed  nature,  the 
Divine  soul  assumes  a  corresponding  character  and  pro- 
duces both  good  and  evil. 

(3)  A  wild  train  of  thought  in  which  a  person 
enjoys  or  suffers  according  to  his  hopes  or  fears. 

23.  If  the  effects   of  a  planet  be  found  to   be  benefic 
under  one    yoga   and  malefic   in  respect   to  the  same 
point  under  another   yoga   («)  neither  of  the  effects   will 
occur  ;  if  two   or  more   yogas    give   a   character,  one   a 
different  character  to  one  and  the  same  planet,  the  former 
will  take  effect.  But  if,  to  two  distinct  planets,  conflicting 
effects  have  been  assigned,  both  will  come  to  pass  in  their 
respective  dasa  periods. 

NOTES. 

(a)  For  example,  if  under  an  yoga,  a  planet  is  de- 
clared to  bring  wealth  and  under  another  to  destroy  it. 


N3. — The  division  of  life  into  dasas  as  given  by 
the  Author  is  hardly  studied  by  Indian  Astrologers,  evi- 
dently from  the  difficulties  attending  its  application. 
These  Astrologers,  as  a  class,  employ  the  exceedingly 
simple  division  of  life  into  what  is  known  as  Udu  or 


CH.  VIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd,  95 

Nakshatra  Dasas.  According  to  this,  the  maximum  period 
of  human  life  is  divided  into  9  parts  presided  over  by  the 
seven  planets  and  by  Rahu  and  Ketu — the  two  nodes  of 
the  Moon.  They  come  in  the  following  order  and  their 
years  are  also  given  below  : — 

(1)  The  Sun,  6  years.  (5)  Jupiter,  16  years. 

(2)  The  Moon,  10      „  (6)  Saturn,    19     „ 

(3)  Mars,  7      „  (7)  Mercury,  17    „ 

(4)  Rahu,  18     „  (8)  Ketu,        7    „ 

(9)     Venus,  20  years. 

The  lord  of  the  dasa  period,  at  the  time  of  birth,  is 
ascertained  from  the  asterism  which  the  Moon  occupies 
at  the  time — the  nine  triangular  asterisms  represent  the 
nine  dasas  :  if  therefore  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon 
occupy  one  of  the  triangular  asterisms  of 

Krittika,   U.   Phalguni  and   U.    Ashadha,  the  dasa 

period  is  that  of  the  ...  Sun. 

Rohini,  Hasta  and  Sravana  ...  Moon. 

Mrigasirsha,  Chitra  and  Sravishta  ...  Mars. 

Ardra,  Swati  and  Satabhishak  ...  Rahu. 

Punarvasu,  Visakha  and  P.  Bhadrapada  ...  Jupiter. 

Pushya,  Anuradha  and  U.  Bhadrapada   ...  Saturn. 

Aslesha,  Jyeshta  and  Revati  ...  Mercury. 

Aswiui,  Magha  and  Mula  ...  Ketu. 

Bharani,  P.  Phalguni  and  P.  Ashada       ...  Venus. 

How  much  of  the  period  of  a  particular  dasa  has 
elapsed  and  how  much  remains  at  the  time  of  birth  must 
be  ascertained  from  the  portion  of  the  asterism  passed  over 
by  the  Moon  and  the  portion  remaining  at  the  time.  This 
may  be  roughly  ascertained  from  the  time  taken  by  the 
Moon  to  go  over  the  portion  of  the  asterism — the  whole 
time  in  which  the  Moon  passes  through  a  particular 
asterism  (as  given  in  the  Calendar)  representing  the  full 
period  of  a  dasa ;  e.g.,  suppose  the  Moon  to  take  64 


96  BrihatJdtakd.  [Cn.  VIII. 

ghatikas  and  42  vighatikas  to  go  over  the  asterism  of 
Krittika,  and  suppose  that  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon 
has  gone  over  a  portion  of  asterism  covered  by  24  ghatikas 
and  16  vighatikas.  Required  the  number  of  years  remain- 
ing at  the  time  of  birth  in  the  dasa  period  of  the  Sun. 
Now,  the  time  in  which  the  Moon  will  go  over  the  remain- 
ing portion  of  the  asterism  of  Krittika  =64  gh.  42.  vigh — 
24  gh.  16  vigh.  =40  gh.  26  vigh.  Now,  64  gh.  and  42 
vigh.  represent  the  whole  period  of  6  years  of  the  Sun, 
Therefore  time  required 
6  years 


64  gh. 

42  vigh. 
6 

x(40 

x  60  + 

7278 

£«. 

26.)  years. 

64  x 
6 

60  + 

x  2426 

42 

3882 

1941 

=     3   Savana     years, 

8  months,  29  days,  51  ghatikas,  39  vighatikas  =  3  Soura  years, 
8  monthp,  14  days,  6  ghatikas,  3  vighatikas. 

To  this  must  be  added  in  the  order  stated  the  dasa 
periods  of  the  Moon,  Mars,  Rahu,  &c.,  till  we  come  to  the 
present  age  of  the  person. 

Again,  the  nine  dasa  periods  are  each  divided  into  9 
sub-divisons  known  as  Antardasas — the  lord  of  the  first 
antardasa  being  the  lord  of  the  dasa  period,  and  those 
of  the  antardasas  which  follow  are  the  same  as  the  lords 
of  the  dasa  periods  which  follow ;  so  that,  the  antardasas, 
of  the  dasa  period  of  Jupiter,  for  instance,  are  those  of 
Jupiter,  Saturn.  Mercury,  Ketu,  Venus,  the  Sun,  the  Moon, 
Mars  and  Rahu.  The  lengths  of  the  antardasa  periods 
bear  the  same  proportion  to  each  other  as  the  lengths  of 
the  dasa  periods.  For  instance,  required  the  length  of  the 
antardasa  period  of  Venus  in  the  dasa  period  of  Jupiter. 
The  clasa  period  of  Jupiter  is  16  years,  that  of  Venus  is  20 


CH.  IX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  97 

years,  that  of  all  the  planets  is  120  years;  therefore  the 

16  years 

length  of  the  antardasa  period  required  » x  20 

120  years 

years  =  f  years  =  2  Savana  years  and  8  months.  =  2  Soura 

years,  7  months,  19  days,  30  ghatikas. 

Again,  each  of  the  autardasa  period  is  further  sub- 
divided into  9  parts,  in  the  same  proportion,  known  as 
Sukshma  periods.  The  Appendix  will  contain  tables  for 
the  dasa  and  antardasa  periods. 


CHAPTER  IX. 
On  Ashtakavargas.  (a) 

1.  The  benefic  places  of  the   Sun  are   the  1st,   2nd, 
4th,  7th,  8th,  9th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  himself;  the 
same  houses  from  Mars  and  Saturn  ;  the   6th,  7th,    and 
12th  houses  from  Venus  ;   5th,  6th,  9th   and  llth  houses 
from  Jupiter  ;  the   3rd,  6th,    10th  and  llth   houses   from 
the  Moon;   the   3rd,    5th,  6th,   9th,    10th,  llth   and  12th 
houses  from  Mercury,  and   the  3rd,   4th,  6th,  10th,  llth 
and  12th  houses  from  Lagna. 

2.  The  benefic  places  of  the  Moon   are  the  3rd,  6th, 
10th  and  llth  houses  from  Lagna;  the  2nd,  3rd,  5th, 6th, 
9th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  Mars;  the  1st,  3rd,    6th, 
7th,  10th  and   llth   houses  from  herself  (Moon)  ;  the  3rd, 
6th,  7th,  8th,  10th  and  llth  housesfrom  the  Sun ;  the  3rd, 
5th,  6th  and  llth  houses    from  Saturn  ;  the    1st,  3rd,  4tb, 
5th,  7th,  8th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  Mercury  ;  the  1st, 
4th,  7th,  8th,  10th,  llth   and  12th,   houses  from  Jupiter, 
and  the   3rd,   4th,    5th,   7th,  9th,  10th  and    llth   houses 
from  Venus. 

(a)     This  means  the  benefic  and  malefic  places  of  a  planet  with  refer- 
ence to  eight  places— the  places  occupied  by  the  seven  planets  and  the 
at  the  time  of  birth. 

13 


98  Brihat  JdtaM.  [Cn.  IX. 

3.  The  beuefic  places  of  Mars  are  the  3rd,  5th,  6th, 
10th  and  llth  houses  from  the  Sun  ;  the  1st,  3rd,  6th,  10th 
and    llth  houses  from    L,agna;    the   3rd,  6th,   and    llth 
houses  from  the   Moon;   the   1st,  2nd,  4th,  7th,  8th,  10th, 
and  1 1th  houses  from   himself  (Mars);   the  1st,   4th,  7th, 
8th,  9th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  Saturn  ;  the  3rd,  5th, 
6th  and  1 1th  houses  from  Mercury  ;  the  6th,  8th,  llth  and 
12th  houses  from  Venus;  and  the  6th,  10th,  llth  and  12th 
houses  from  Jupiter. 

4.  The  benefic  places  of  Mercury  are  the   1st,  2nd, 
3rd,  4th,  5th,  8th,  9th  and  llth  houses  from  Venus ;  the 
1st,  2nd,  4th,   7th,  8th,   9th,    10th  and  llth  houses  from 
Saturn  and  Mars;  the  6th,  8th,  llth  and  12th  houses  from 
Jupiter  ;  the 5th,  6th,  9th,  llth  and  12th  houses  from  the 
Sun ;  the    1st,  3rd,  5th,   6th,   9th,   10th,    llth  and    12th 
houses  from  himself;  the  2nd,  4th,  6th,  8th,  10th  and  llth 
houses  from  the  Moon  ;  and  the   1st,  2nd,   4th,  6th,   8th, 
10th,  and  llth  houses  from  L,agna. 

5.  The  benefic  places  of  Jupiter  are  the  1st,   2nd, 
4th  7th,  8th,    10th  and  llth   houses  from  Mars;  the  1st, 
2nd,  3rd,  4th,  7th,  8th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  himself  ; 
the  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  7th,  8th,  9th,  10th  and  llth  houses 
from  the   Sun  ;   the  2nd,   5th,   6th,  9th,   10th  and  llth 
houses  from   Venus;   the   2nd,   5th,  7th,    9th  and    llth 
houses  from  the  Moon;  the  3rd,  5th,  6th  and  12th  houses 
from  Saturn  ;  the  1st,  2nd,  4th,  5th,    6th,    9th,  10th  and 
llth  houses  from  Mercury  ;  and  the  1st,  2nd,  4th,  5th,  6th, 
7th,  9th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  Lagna. 

6.  The  benefic  place  o£  Venus  are  the  1st,  2nd,  3rd, 
4th,  5th  8th,  9th  and  llth  houses  from  Lagna;  the  1st, 
2nd,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  8th,  9th,  llth  and  12th  houses  from  the 
Moon ;  the  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  8th,  9th,  10th  and  llth 
houses  from  himself  ;  the  3rd,  4th,  5th,  8th,  9th,  10th  and 
llth  houses  from  Saturn  ;  the  8th,  llth  and  12th  houses 
from  the  Sun;  the  5th,  8th,  9th,  10th  and  11th  houses 


CH.  IX.J  Brihat  Jdtakd.  99 

from  Jupiter;  the  3rd,  5th,  6th,  9th  and  11th  houses 
from  Mercury;  and  the  3rd,  5th,  6th,  9th,  llth  and  12th 
houses  from  Mars. 

7.  The  benefic  places  of  Saturn  are  the  3rd,  5th,  6th 
and  llth  houses  from  himself ;  the  3rd,  5th,  6th,  10th,  1  Hh 
and  12th  houses  from  Mars;  the   1st,  2nd,   4th,  7th,    8th, 
10th  and  llth  houses  from  the  Sun  ;  the  1st,  3rd,  4th,  6th, 
10th  and  llth  houses  from  Lagna  ;  the  6th,  8th,  9th,  10th) 
lith  and  12th  houses  from   Mercury;   the   3rd,   6th    and 
llth  houses  from  the  Moon  ;   the  6th,   llth  and  the  12th 
houses   from    Venus;  and  the  5th,    6th,    llth  and  12th 
houses  from  Jupiter. 

8.  Thus  have  been   described    the  benefic   places  of 
the  planets  ;  the  other  places  are  malefic  (a).  A  place  will 
produce  benefic  or  malefic  effects  if  it  be  more  benefic  for 
the  planet  than  malefic  or  vice  versa  (b}. 

These  places  are  all  with  reference  to  the  places  oc- 
cupied by  the  planets  at  the  time  of  birth.  The  planets 
while  passing  through  places  which  happen  to  be 
Upachaya  houses  (<;)  or  which  might  be  their  own  houses 
or  their  friendly  or  exaltation  signs,  (d)  produce  benefic 
effects/^//}'  if  such  houses  or  signs  are  more  benefic  for 
the  planets  than  malefic ;  and  planets  while  passing 
through  places  which  happen  to  be  Apachaya  houses  (e) 
or  which  might  be  their  inimical  or  depression  signs, 
produce  malefic  effects  ftilly  if  such  houses  or  signs  be 
more  malefic  for  the  planets  than  benefic.  (/  ) 

NOTES. 

(a)  For  instance,  the  3rd,  5th,  6th  and  12th  houses 
from  himself  are  malefic  places  for  the  Sun.  The  1st, 
2nd,  4th,  5th,  7th,  8th,  9th  and  12th  houses  from  Lagua 
are  malefic  places  for  the  Moou,  and  so  forth. 

(<£)    In  preparing  tables  of  Ashtakavarga,  it  is  usual 


100 


Brihat  Jdtakd. 


[Cn.  IX- 


to  mark  the  benefic  places  with  dots  and  the  malefic 
places  with  lines.  We  will  put  down  the  Ashtakavarga 
table  for  Mars  in  the  following  horoscope  : — 


Lagna. 
Venus. 

Sun. 

Moon.  Mercury. 

RASI  CHAKRA. 

Jupiter. 

Mars. 

Saturn. 

Mark  the  benefic  places  of  Mars  with  dots  and  the 
malefic  places  with  lines.  The  result  will  be  found  to  be 
as  follows :— 


000  =  3 
11111  =  5 

000  =  3 
11111  =  5 

000-3 
11111  =  5 

000-3 
11111  =  5 

000-3 
11111  =  6 

ASHTAKAVARGA  OF  MARS. 

• 

0000  =  4 
1111=4 

00000  =  5 
111  =  3 

OOGOO-5 
111  =  3 

00=2 
111111=6 

0=1 
1111111-7 

00000  =  5 
111-8 

00-2 
111111  =  6 

The  table  means  that  while  Mars  moves  through 
sign  Aries  for  instance,  the  benefic  effects  will  be  f  and 
the  malefic  effects  will  be  f.  In  other  words,  he  produces 
malefic  effects  to  the  extent  of  f — f  or  f  of  his  power. 
Similar  remarks  apply  to  the  other  places. 

(c)  These  are  the  3rd,  6th,  10th  and  1 1  houses   from 
the  Lagna.     Also  from  the  Moon  according'to  Sree  Deva- 
keerti. 

(d)  Or  their  Swakshetra  or  Mulatrikona  houses  also, 
according  to  Sree  Devakeerti. 


CH.  IX.] 


Brinat  Jdtakd. 


ioi 


(e)    From  the  rising  sign  and  from  the  Moon  accord- 
ing to  ditto. 

(/)  So  that,  in  the  Ashtakavarga  of  Mars  given  above, 
Mars  while  passing  through  Capricorn  (his  Upachaya 
house)  produces  beneftc  effects  fully  and  not  to  the  extent 
of  2/8  ;  and  while  passing  through  Gemini  (his  Anupa- 
chaya  sign)  he  produces  malefic  effects  fully  and  not  to  the 
extent  of  2/8. 


N.B. — The  Ashatakavarga  tables  are  generally  pre- 
pared with  the  number  of  ben e fie  dots  alone  marked  in 
them — the  number  representing  the  malefic  lines  being 
the  difference  between  number  8  and  the  number  of  dots. 
The  above  table  will  then  stand  as  follows : — • 


3. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

5. 

2. 

1. 

5. 

2. 

All  these  numbers  represent  the  benefic  dots. 

The  A.  V.  tables  are  useful  in  the  prediction  of  most 
of  the  important  events  of  life.  Regular  treatises  exist 
on  this  branch  of  horoscopy,  which  must  be  consulted  for 
full  particulars.  We  shall  give  here  some  of  the  uses  of 
the  A.  V.  tables, 

The  tables  prepared,  as  stated  above,  with  figures  re- 
presenting benefic  dots  are  subjected  to  two  reductions  or 
eliminations,  known  as  Trikona  and  Ekadhipatya  reduc- 
tions—that is,  of  the  figures  in  the  triangular  sigus,  and 


162  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Ctt.  IX. 

of  the  figures  in  the  several  pairs   of  signs   forming  the 
houses  of  the  planets,  from  Mars  to  Saturn. 

I. 
TRIKONA  OR  TRIANGULAR  REDUCTIONS. 

The   Triangular  signs   are   given   in   the   notes   to 
Stanza  6  of  Chapter  I.     The  reduction  rules  are  :  — 

1.  If  the  figures  in  the   triangular   signs  be  not  all 
alike,  subtract  from   each,  the  least  of  the  three  figures, 
keeping  the  remainders. 

2.  If  there  be  no  figure  in   one  of  the  three  signs,  no 
reduction  need  be  made. 

3.  If  there   be  no  figure  in  two  of  the  three  signs^ 
remove  the  figure  in  the  third. 

4.  If  the  figures  in  the  three  signs  be  equal,  remove 
them  all. 

II. 

EKADHIPATYA  REDUCTIONS. 

The   Ekadhipatya   signs  are   given  in  the   notes  to 
Stanza  6  of  Chapter  I.     The  reduction  rules  are  : — 

1.  If  there  be  planets  in  both  the  houses  of  a  planet, 
no  reduction  need  be  made. 

2.  Of  the  two  houses  of  a  planet,  one  of  which   is 
occupied  and  the  other  not,  (1)  if  the  figure  in  the  former 
be  smaller  than  the  figure  in   the  latter,   make  the   latter 
equal   to  the  former  ;  (2)   if  the   figure   in  the  former  be 
greater  than  the  figure  in  the  latter,  remove  the  latter  ;  (3) 
if  the  figures   in  both   be  equal,  remove   the  figure  in 
the  latter. 

3.  Of  the  two  houses   of  a  planet,  both  of  which  are 
not  occupied,  (a)  if  the   figures   in  the    two   houses  be 
equal  remove  both  ;  (<$)  if  the   figures  be  uuequal,    make 
the  larger  figure  equal  to  the  smaller  one. 


CH,  IX.] 


Bnhat  Jdtakd. 


103 


4.  If  there  be  no  figure  in  one  of  the  two  houses,  no 
reduction  need  be  made. 

5.  The  figures  in  the  signs  Cancer  and  Leo,  which 
are  respectively  the  houses  of  the   Moon  and  the  Sun,  are 
not  subject  to  the  Ekadhipatya  reduction. 

ILLUSTRATION. 

We  will  apply  these  rules  to  the  A.  V.  table  of  Mars 
given  already. 

REDUCTION  No.  I. 

The  figures  in  the  Triangular  signs  of  Aries,  Leo  and 
Sagittari  are  respectively  3,5,  2.  Under  rule  (1)  subtract 
2  from  each,  and  the  resulting  figures  are  1,  3,  0.  The 
figures  in  the  triangular  signs  of  Taurus,  Virgo  and 
Capricorn,  are  respectively  3,  2,  5.  Applying  rule  (1),  we 
get  1,  0,  3.  The  figures  in  the  triangular  signs  of  Gemini, 
Libra  and  Aquarius  are  3,  5,  3.  Applying  rule  (1),  we  get 
0,  2,  0.  The  figures  in  the  triangular  signs  of  Cancer, 
Scorpio  and  Pisces  are  4,  1,3.  Applying  rule  (1),  we  get 
3,  0,  2.  So  that,  the*  A.  V.  of  Mars  after  the  first  reduction 
stands  as  follows  : — 


2 

1 

1 

0 

0 

A.  V.  of  Mars  after  Reduction 
No.  I. 

3 

3 

3 

0 

0 

2 

0 

REDUCTION  No.  II. 

This  reduction  should  be  made  only  to  the  figures  re- 
ulting  from  Reduction  No.  I. 

Of  Aries  and  Scorpio,  the  two  houses  of  Mars,   Aries 


Brihat  Jdtakd. 


[Cn.  IX 


is  occupied  and  Scorpio  is  unoccupied.  The  figures  in  them 
are  1,  and  o,  respectively.  Under  rule  (4),  no  reduction  need 
be  made.  Taurus  and  Libra,  the  two  houses  of  Venus,  are 
both  occupied  ;  under  rule  (1),  no  reduction  need  be  made. 
Gemini  and  Virgo,  the  two  houses  of  Mercury,  are  both 
unoccupied ;  the  figures  in  them  are  o  and  o.  Rule  (4)  applies, 
and  there  is  no  necessity  for  reduction.  Of  Pisces  and 
Sagittari,  the  two  houses  of  Jupiter,  the  former  alone 
is  occupied  and  the  figures  in  them  are  2  and  o.  Under 
rule  (4),  no  reduction  need  be  made.  Of  Aquarius  and  Cap- 
ricorn, the  two  houses  of  Saturn,  the  latter  alone  is  occu- 
pied and  the  figures  in  them  are  o  and  3.  Applying  rule 
(4),  no  reduction  need  be  made.  The  figures  in  Cancer  and 
Leo,  which  are  respectively  the  houses  of  the  Moon  and  the 
Sun,  are  not  subject  to  reduction — vide  rule  5.  These  figures 
are  3  and  3. 

So  that,  after  Reduction  No.  II,  the  A.  V.  table  of  Mars 
will  stand  thus  : — 


2 

« 

1      • 

0 

0 

A.  V.  table  of  Mars  after  Re- 
ductions I  and  II. 

3 

3 

3 

0 

0 

2 

0 

The  total  of  figures  after  the  two  reductions  is  15. 

Similarly,  the  A.  V.  tables  of  the  Sun,  the   Moon, 
Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn  may  be  reduced. 

We  will  now  give  some  of  the  uses  of  these  tables. 
A.  V.  of  the  Sun. 

In  the  case  of  A.  V.  of  the  Sun,(«)  multiply  the  total 
(o)  A.  V,  of  a  planet  is  the  Ashtaka  Vargaof  a  planet  before  reduction! 


CH.  IX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  Io5 

of  the  figures,  after  reductions,  by  the  figure  in  the  9th  house 
from  the  Sun  in  the  A.  V.  Divide  the  product  by  27  and 
take  the  remainder.  Mark  the  asterism,  counting  the  re- 
mainder from  Aswini.  When  Saturn  passes  through  such 
asterism  or  through  its  triangular  asterisms,  either  a  per- 
son's father  or  paternal  uncle  will  die  or  suffer  miseries,  if 
the  planetary  dasa  period  at  the  time  be  a  malefic  one. 

No  work  shall  be  commenced  when  the  Sun  passes 
through  signs  where  there  are  no  figures  in  A.  V.  of  the  Sun. 

During  such  periods,  a  person  suffers  from  diseases, 
misery  and  quarrel. 

Multiply  the  total  of  the  reduced  figures  by  the  figures 
in  the  8th  house  from  the  Sun  in  the  A.  V.  of  the 
Sun.  Divide  the  product  by  12.  The  remainder  represents 
the  (month)  sign  from  Aries,  through  which  or  through  one 
of  its  triangular  signs  when  the  Sun  passes,  a  person  dies  (ill 
the  year  of  his  death). 

Add  together  the  three  figures  in  each  of  the  4  sets 
of  the  triangular  signs  Aries,  Leo,  Sagittari.  &c.  Find  out 
which  of  these  totals  is  the  largest.  Find  out  the  Dik  or 
quarter  for  the  particular  set  of  triangular  signs  giving 
the  total— (vide  note  (/)  to  Stanza  19,  Chapter  II).  The 
place  of  worship  in  the  house  of  a  person  will  be  in  such 
direction. 

A.  V.  OF  THE  MOON. 

Multiply  the  total  of  the  reduced  figures  by  the  figure 
in  the  4th  house  from  the  Moon  in  A.  V.  of  the  Moon  j 
divide  the  product  by  27,  take  the  remainder,  and  for  it, 
find  out  the  asterism  from  Aswini  as  before.  When 
Saturn  passes  through  such  asterism  or  through  its  trian- 
gular asterisms,  a  person's  mother  dies  or  suffers  miseries, 
if  the  planetary  dasa  period  at  the  time  be  a  malefic  one. 

Multiply  the  total  of  reduced  figures  by  the  figure  in 
the  8th  house  from  the  Moon  in  the  A.  V.  of  the  Moon, 
14 


106  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  IX. 

Divide  the  product  by  27.  Take  the  remainder,  and  for 
it  find  out  the  asterism  from  Aswini  as  before.  When 
the  Moon  passes  through  it  or  through  its  triangular 
asterisms,  there  will  be  quarrel,  anger  and  grief. 

No  work  shall  be  commenced  when  the  Moon  passes 
through  signs  in  which  there  are  no  figures  in  the  A.  V- 
of  the  Moon. 

Find  out  the  Dik  or  quarter  as  before  and  it  will  give 
the  position  of  the  bath-room  in  the  house  of  a  person. 

A.  V.  OF  MARS. 

When  Saturn  passes  through  signs  in  which  there 
are  no  figures  in  the  A.  V.  of  Mars,  the  person  will  suffer 
from  diseases  if  Mars  be  powerful ;  and  will  die  if  Mars 
be  weak  and  if  he  be  not  the  lord  of  the  Ascendant. 

Find  out  the  Dik  or  quarter  as  before  and  it  will  give 
the  position  of  the  kitchen  in  a  person's  house. 

A.  V.  OF  MERCURY. 

When  Saturn  passes  through  signs  in  which  there 
are  no  figures  in  the  A.  V.  of  Mercury,  the  person's  son  or 
friends  will  die. 

Find  out  the  Dik  or  quarter  as  before  and  it  will 
give  the  position  of  the  play  ground  in  the  house  of  a 
person. 

A.  V.  OF  JUPITER. 

The  figure  in  the  5th  house  from  Jupiter  in  the  A. 
V.  of  Jupiter  will  give  the  number  of  sous  of  a  person. 
The  number  of  those  meeting  with  early  death  will  be  the 
number  of  planets  occupying  inimical  or  depression  signs. 

The  Dik  or  quarter  ascertained  as  before  will  give 
the  position  of  the  Treasury  or  Store-room, 


CH,  IX.]  Srihat  Jdtakd.  107 

A.  V.  OF  VENUS. 

A  person  will  get  a  wife,  lands  and  wealth  when 
Venus  passes  through  signs  containing  the  largest  figure 
in  the  A.  V.  of  Venus  after  reduction. 

The  Dik  or  quarter  ascertained  as  before  will  give 
the  position  of  the  bed  room. 

A.  V.  OP  SATURN. 

In  the  A.  V.  of  Saturn,  add  together  the  figures  in 
the  signs  from  the  Ascendant  to  the  house  occupied  by 
Saturn  and  also  the  figures  in  the  signs  from  Saturn  to  the 
Ascendant.  The  two  totals  will  give  the  years  in  which 
a  person  will  suffer  from  diseases  and  from  grief.  Add 
the  two  totals ;  the  sum  will  give  the  year  in  which  a 
person's  life  will  be  in  danger. 

A  similar  remark  applies  to  the  A.  V.  of  Mars. 

When  the  Sun  and  the  Moon  pass  through  signs  in 
which  the  figures  are  least  in  the  A.  V.  of  Saturn  a  person 
dies  (in  his  year  of  death). 

The  Dik  or  quarter  ascertained  as  before  gives  the 
position  of  the  spot  where  the  sweepings  are  gathered. 

Sarvashtaka    Varga. 

The  Ashtakavargas  of  the  Sun  and  other  planets 
considered  separately  are  known  as  Bhinnashtaka  vargas 
and  their  sum  forms  what  is  known  as  Sarvashtaka  varga. 
In  the  latter,  the  figure  in  sign  Aries  is  the  sum  of  the 
figures  in  sign  Aries  in  the  several  Bhinnashtaka  vargas  ; 
similarly,  the  figure  in  sign  Taurus  of  S.  A.  V.  is  the  sum 
of  the  figures  in  sign  Taurus  of  the  B.  A.  Vs.  and  the 
figures  of  the  other  signs  may  be  similarly  obtained.  The 
total  of  these  figures  will  always  be  337— this  being  the 
sum  of  the  totals  of  the  figures  of  the  seven  B.  A.  Vs. 
The  latter  figures  are  48,  49,  39,  54,  56,  52  and  39  front 
the  Sun  to  Saturn* 


108  :£rihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  IX. 

Now,  various  events  of  life  are  predicted  by  means  of 
the  figures  of  the  S.  A.  V.  table. 

1.  If  the  figure  in  a    particular    sign    exceed   30, 
then    planets    passing    through    it   will  produce  benefic 
effects ;  if  it  be  between  25  and  30,   such   effects   will   be 
neither  good  nor  bad,  and  if  the  figure  be  less  than  25, 
the  effects  will  be  bad. 

Again,  all  good  works  shall  be  commenced  when  the 
rising  sign  is  one  whose  figure  is  largest  in  the  S.  A.  V. 
table  ;  and  marriages  and  other  connections,  shall  be  form- 
ed with  persons  whose  star  is  one  of  the  stars  of  such  sign. 

2.  As  the  10th   house   represents  labour,   the    llth 
house  gain,  and  the  12th  loss,  if  the   figure    in   the   llth 
house  be  greater  than  the  figure  in  the  10th  house  and  if 
the  figure  in  the  12th  house  be  smaller  than  the  figure  in 
the  1 1th  house  and  if  the  figure  in  the  ascendant  be  greater 
than  the  figure  in   the   12th  house,  the  person    will    be 
happy  and  prosperous — the  meaning  is  clear,  the  labour 
being  slight,  gain  much  and  loss  comparatively  small.    If 
the  figures  be  otherwise,  the  person  will  be  unhappy. 

3.  Excepting  the  6th,    8th  and  12th  houses,  of  the 
remaining  9  houses,  the  significations  of  those  where  the 
figures  are  large  will  be  in  a  condition  of  prosperity  (Vide 
note  (a)  to  Stanza  15,  Chapter  I). 

4.  Add  together  the   figures  of  the  four  signs  from 
Pisces, — Pisces,  Aries,  Taurus  and  Gemini.     Add  also  the 
figures  of  the  four  signs  from    Cancer    and   of   the    four 
signs   from   Scorpio.     These  three   totals    represent  the 
three  sections  of  a   man's   life.     Whichever   total   is  the 
largest,  the  corresponding  division  of  life  will    be   happy 
and  prosperous.     If  three  or  more  malefic  planets  occupy 
the  four  signs  from  Pisces,  a  person  will  suffer  miseries  in 
the  1st  section  of  life  ;  if  they  occupy  the  four  signs  from 
Cancer,  the  miseries  will  occur  in  the  2nd  section,  and  if 
they  occupy  the  four  signs  from  Scorpio,  then,  in  the  3rd 


CH.  IX.]  Bfihat  Jdtakd.  109 

section  of  life.  If  the  planets  in  the  several  sections  be 
benefic,  the  person  will  be  happy  ;  and  if  both  malefic  and 
benefic  planets  occupy  the  several  sections,  the  effects  will 
be  both  good  and  bad. 

5.  Add  together  the  figures  in  the  houses   occupied 
by  Saturn,  Lagna  and  Mars.    The  sum  will  give  the  year 
in  which  a  person  will  suffer  from   diseases  and  other 
miseries. 

6.  Add  together  the  figures  of  houses   occupied   by 
Rahu,  Mars  and  Saturn.     The  sum  will  give  the  year   in 
which  a  person  will  suffer    from    poison,    weapons   and 
wounds. 

7.  Add  together  the  figures  of  the  signs  occupied  by 
benefic  planets.     The  sum  will  give  the  year  in  which   a 
person  will  get  a  son,  wealth  and  the  like. 

8.  Multiply  the  total  of  the  figures  of  A.  V.  of  the 
planet  who  is  the  lord  of  the  8th  house  from  the  Ascendant 
by  the  figure  of  the  8th  house  in  S.  A.  V.  table.     Divide  the 
product  by  12;  the  remainder  w»'1  give   the  Month  from 
Aries  in  which  a  person  dies  (in  the  year  of  his  death). 

In  the  same  way,  the  month  of  death  of  a  person's 
father  may  be  ascertained  by  a  similar  calculation  with 
reference  to  the  9th  house  and  that  of  the  mother  with 
reference  to  the  4th  house. 

9.  Find  out   from  the  S.  A.  V.  table   the  powerful 
Dik  or   quarter.    .Cow   sheds,    rice     fields,   agricultural 
operations  shall  be  conducted  in  such  dik  or    quarter  and 
the  weak  dik  or  quarter  shall  be  rejected  for  all  purposes. 

Again,  Parasara   in,  his   Hora   Sastra,  a  very   volu- 
minous work,  has  treated  of  32  distinct  processes  for  ascer- 
taining the  length  of  human  life.    They  are: 

I.     Pindayurdaya  ...         ...         ...      12 

II.     Dhruvayurdaya  or  Naisargikayurdaya  4 
III.     Rasmikayurdaya     ...         ,.,        ,..        4 


110  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  IX. 

IV.  Arasakayurdaya      .-,  4? 

V.  Ashtakavargayurdaya        4 

VI.  Vishayayurdaya       ...  2 

VII.  Nakshatramsakayurdaya 2 

Total...      32 
/.  Pindayurdaya. 

This  is  divided  into  3  schools  :  (1)  that  of  Yavanacharya 
(m'de  Stanza  1,  Ch.  7),  (2),  that  of  Jeevasarma  (vide  Stanza 
9,  Ch.  7),  (3),  that  of  Badarayana  according  to  which  the 
maximum  years  of  each  planet  when  in  his  exaltation  sign 
is  one-seventh  of  100  years. 

Each  of  these  three  schools  has  4  sub-divisions :  (a) 
The  Neechardhaharana  process  according  to  which  the 
maximum  period  is  one-half  at  depression,  (b)  The 
Neechabhava  process  according  to  which  the  period 
vanishes  at  depression,  (c)  The  Kritaharana  process 
according  to  which  the  periods  suffer  reductions,  (d} 
The  Akritaharana  process  according  to  which  the  periods 
suffer  no  reductions. 

Thus  Pindayurdaya  is  of  12  sorts. 
II.  Dhruvayurdaya. 

This  is  otherwise  known  as  Naisargikayuidaya  (vide 
Stanza  9,  Ch.  8).  As  stated  above,  there  are  4  kinds  of  this 
depending  on  the  4  divisions  mentioned  above — (a),  (6),  (c) 

and  (d). 

III.  Rastnikayurdaya* 

According  to  this,  the  years  of  the  planets   from  the 
Sun  to  Saturn  are  respectively  16,  20,   9,  8,  9,  25  and  26. 
There  are  4  kinds  of  this  as  stated  above. 
I  V.  Amsakayurdaya. 

This  is  Satyacharyar's  method  referred  to  at  the  end  of 
Stanza  9,  Ch.  7.  This  process,  in  certain  cases,  has  to  be 
varied  into  what  is  known  as  Prakramanugata  method. 
The  two  processes  again  divide,  each,  into  two  parts  known 


CH.  IX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  Ill 

as  Kritavriddhika  and  Akritavriddhika — i.e.,  the  years  are 
to  be  increased  according  to  some  and  not  to  be  increased 
according  to  others — Vide  Parasara's  Hora  Sastra.  Thus, 
we  get  4  kinds  of  Amsakayurdaya. 

V.    Ashta  ka  vargayurdaya. 

This  process  as  stated  above  has  to  be  varied  into 
what  is  known  as  Prakramanugata  method.  The  two  pro- 
cesses, again  divide,  each,  into  two  parts  known  as  Krita- 
vriddhi  and  Akritavriddhi  as  stated  above — Vide  Parasa- 
ra's Hora.  Thus,  we  get  4  kinds  of  Ashtakavargayurdaya. 
One  of  these  4  methods  is  given  at  the  end  of  these  notes. 
VI.  Vishayayurdaya. 

This  consists  of  two  kinds — the  one  according  to 
Parasara  and  the  other  as  mentioned  in  a  work  named 
Prakriyamala.  These  partake  of  the  nature  of  the  Ash- 
takavarga  process. 

VII.  Naftshatravieakaytirdaya* 

This  is  of  two  kinds — the  one  is  known  as  the  Kala- 
chakra  process  and  the  other  as  the  Nakshtradasa. 

Thus  32  processes  are  mentioned  by  Parasara  who,  at 
the  same  time,  states  the  particular  cases  to  which  each 
process  is  applicable.  Of  these  32  processes,  Varaha 
Mihira  has  mentioned  the  most  important  ones  in  Chapter 
VII.  For  further  particulars  in  Ayurdaya,  the  reader  is 
referred  to  the  works  of  Parasara  and  other  writers. 

We  shall  here  state  the  details    of    the  Ashtakavar^a 

o 

process.  The  following  tables  are  employed  in  the  pro- 
cess :— 

Rast  Gunakara  or  Zodical  Factors. 


Aries 

Taurus 

Gemini 

Cancer 

Leo 

Virgo 


1 
10 

8 

4 
10 

5 


Libra  ...  7 

Scorpio  ...  8 

Sagittari  ...  9 

Capricorn  ...  5 

Aquarius  ...  11 

Pisces  12 


112  jBriJiat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  IX. 

Gra/ia  Gunakara  or  Planetary  Factors. 


The  Sun  ...       5 

The  Moon  ...       5 

Mars  8 


Jupiter  ...     10 

Venus  ...       7 

Saturn  5 


Mercury  ...       5 

Multiply  the  several  figures  in  the  signs  from  Aries 
in  the  Ashtakavarga  of  the  Sun  by  the  figures  of  the  Rasi 
Gunakara  table  respectively  and  add  the  products. 

Again,  multiply  the  several  figures  in  the  signs  occu- 
pied by  the  Sun  and  other  planets  by  the  figures  of  the 
Graha  Gunakara  table  respectively  and  add  the  products. 
Add  the  two  totals.  Multiply  the  sura  by  1,  divide  the 
product  by  27.  The  quotient  will  give  the  years  of  the 
Sun.  Multiply  the  remainder  by  12  and  divide  the  pro- 
duct by  27,  the  quotient  will  give  the  months.  Multiply 
the  remainder  by  30  and  divide  the  product  by  27,  the 
quotient  will  give  the  days.  And  similarly,  find  the  Ghati- 
kas  and  Vighatikas.  Thus,  we  have  obtained  the  A.  V. 
years  of  the  Sun. 

Similarly,  those  of  the  Moon,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter, 
Venus  and  Saturn  may  be  obtained  from  the  A.  V.  tables. 

Now,  these  periods  are  subject  to  the  following  reduc- 
tions. 

1.  If  a  planet  is   accompanied  by   another  planet  in 
a  sign,  the  amount  of  reduction  is  one-half  of  the  period 
obtained. 

2.  If    a   planet   occupy    his   depression   sign,   the 
alnount  of  reduction  is  one-half. 

3.  If  he  be  an   Astangata    planet,   the  amount  of 
reduction  is  also  one-half. 

4?.  .  If  he  occupy  an  inimical  sign,  the  amount  is  one- 
third. 

5.  If  he  occupy  the  ^visible  hemisphere,  the  amount 
is  one-half. 


IX.]  B-rihat  Jdtakd.  113 

6.  If  he  suffer  defeat  in   conjunction,  the   amount  is 
one-third. 

7.  In  the   case   of  the  Sun  and  the   Moon  again,  if 
these  be  of  unusual  appearance  the  amount  is  one-third. 

N.B. — Where  several  reductions  have  to  be  applied 
to  the  period  of  a  planet,  it  will  be  enough  if  the  largest  of 
them  alone  be  made. 

After  making  the  several  reductions,  add  up  the  result- 
ing years  of  the  planets,  multiply  the  sum  by  334  and  divide 
the  product  by  3G5.  The  quotient  will  give  the  length  of  a 
person's  life  in  years,  months,  days,  &c. 

Again,  in  the  A.  V.  of  Saturn  as  before,  multiply  the 
figures  of  the  several  signs  from  Aries  by  the  Zodiacal  fac- 
tors and  add  up  the  products.  Multiply  the  figures  in  the 
several  signs  occupied  by  the  Sun  and  other  planets  by  the 
several  planetary  factors  and  add  up  the  products.  Add 
together  the  two  totals.  To  the  sum,  add  the  sum  of  the 
figures  resulting  after  making  the  Trikona  and  Ekadhi- 
patya  reductions  to  the  figures  of  the  A.  V.  of  Saturn. 
Multiply  the  sum  by  the  figure  in  the  8th  house  from  the 
ascendant  in  the  A.  V.  of  Saturn  ;  divide  the  product  by  27; 
the  quotient  will  also  give  the  length  of  a  person's  life,  pro- 
vided such  length  is  otherwise  found  to  range  between  34 
and  66  years.  The  length  of  life  will  be  27  years  less  than 
the  period  obtained  if  the  person's  age  is  otherwise  found 
to  range  from  1  to  33  years ;  and  27  years  more  than  the 
period  obtained  if  such  length  be  found  to  range  between 
67  and  1 00  years  and  death  will  occur  if  the  dasa  period  be 
a  malefic  one.  There  are  brief  processes  for  ascertaining 
by  inspection  whether  the  length  of  life  of  a  person  falls  in 
the  first,  or  the  second  or  the  third  section  of  the  maxi- 
mum period  of  100  years —  Vide  the  Astrological  Aphorisms 
of  Jaimini. 

Hitherto,  we  have  been  dealing  with  the  tables  of 
the  B.  A.  V.  and  S.  A.  V.  prepared  with  the  figures  re- 


114  Brihat  Jataka.  [Cn.  X. 

presenting  the  benefic  planetary  places.  Tables  can  also  be 
prepared  with  figures  representing  the  malefic  places  of  the 
planets  ( Vide,  Note  b,  to  Stanza  8).  Special  rules  exist 
relating  to  the  prediction  of  events  of  life  with  the  help 
of  the  figures  of  these  tables.  The  reader  is  referred  to 
the  works  of  Parasara. 


CHAPTER  X. 
On  Avocation. 

1.  A  person  gets  wealth  from  his  father,  mother, 
enemy,  friend,  brother,  wife  or  servant  according  as  the 
planet  which  occupies  the  10th  house  from  the  L,agna  or 
from  the  Moon  is  the  Sun,  or  the  Moon,  or  Mars  or 
Mercury,  or  Jupiter  or  Venus  or  Saturn  respectively  (#). 
The  avocation  of  a  person  will  be  that  stated  for  the 
planets  (b)  which  might  be  the  lords  of  the  Navamsas 
occupied  by  the  lords  of  the  10th  houses  from  Lagna,  the 
Moon  and  the  Sun  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  He  will  get  wealth  in  the  manner  stated  in  the 
Text  in  the  Dasa  period  of  the  planet,  according  to  Garga. 
If  the  10th  house  from  the  ascendant  and  the  10th  house 
from  the  Moon  be  both  occupied  by  planets,  a  person 
will  acquire  wealth  from  both  sources  ;  and  if  several 
planets  occupy  the  10th  house,  there  will  be  several  sources 
of  wealth. 

(8)     Vide  Stanzas  2  and  3. 

(c)  Suppose,  sign  Cancer  is  the  Lagna ;  the  10th  house 
from  Cancer  is  Aries  ;  the  lord  of  Aries  is  Mars  ;  suppose, 
Mars  to  occupy  the  Navamsa  of  Sagittari ;  the  lord  of 
Sagittari  is  Jupiter  and  the  avocation  stated  for  Jupiter 
(vide  3rd  Stanza),  will  be  the  avocation  of  a  person  in  the 
Dasa  period  of  Jupiter,  according  to  Garga.  It  also  follows 


CH.  X.]  Brihat  Jdtakd. 

that  a  person's  avocation  will  be  all  the  three  stated  for 
the  lords  of  the  Navamsas  occupied  by  the  lords  of  the 
10th  house  from  the  Lagna,  the  Moon  and  the  Sun. 

2.  If  the  lord   of  the  Navanisa   (a)  be   the  Sun,   a 
person   will    get   wealth  by  dealing   in   perfumes,   gold, 
woollen   fabric,  medicine  and  by   medical   treatment   of 
patients.     If  the    lord   be   the  Moon,  he  will  get  wealth 
by  tilling  lands,  by  dealing  in  the  productions  of  water  (3) 
and  through  women     (c).     If   he   be   Mars,   the  person 
will  get  wealth  by  dealing  in  metals  or  minerals,  fire  (d) 
weapons  and  will    also  acquire   wealth  by  acts  of  bold- 
ness ;  if  he  be    Mercury,  the  person  will  be  a    writer,  an 
accountant,  and  the  like  (e}  and  will  also    acquire  wealth 
by  various  handicraft  (/). 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is,  the  lord  of  the  Navamsa  occupied  by  the 
lord  of  the  10th  house  from  Lagna,  the  Moon  and  the  Sun. 

(3)  Such  as  pearls,  corals,  conch-shells,  whale-bones 
and  the  like. 

(c)  By  serving  under  or  otherwise  following  them. 

(d)  Fire  :  he  may  be  the  driver  of  a   fire   engine  or 
a  dealer  in  matches  and  the  like. 

(e)  By  writing  commentaries  on  the  works  of  writers 
and  the  like. 

(/)  Such  as  painting,  book-binding,  arrow-making 
or  the  making  of  flower-wreaths,  sandal  paste,  perfumes 
and  the  like. 

3.  If  the  lord  of  the  Navamsa  be  Jupiter,  a  person 
will  get  wealth  through  Brahmins,  the  Devas  or  learned 
men,  through  mines-  (a)  and  the  like  (&)  and  through  acts 
of  virtue  (c) ;  if  he  be  Venus,  the  person  will   get  wealth 
by  dealing  in  gems,  (d)  silver  and  other   metals,   in  cows 
and  buffaloes  ;  and  if  the  lord  be  Saturn,  the  person  will 
acquire  wealth  by   means  of  hard  labour  (e)}  by  acts  of 


116  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  X. 

torture  (/),  by  carrying  burdens  and  by  low  deeds  unsuit- 
ed  to  his  rank.  Thus,  persons  acquire  wealth  by  avo- 
cation stated  for  the  lords  of  Navamsas  occupied  by  the 
lords  of  the  10th  house  (g)  and  in  the  Autardasa  periods 
of  such  lords  (^). 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  word  in  the  text  is  Akara  which  includes 
gold  and  silver  mines,  places  where  salt  is  produced  or 
where  elephants  are  found. 

(&)     Such  as  contract  work.  , 

(c)  Such   as    sacrificial   rites,  gifts,  acts  of  charity, 
fasting,  pilgrimage,  service  under  Guru  or  preceptor. 

(d)  Such  as  diamonds,  rubies  and  the  like. 
(ji)     Such  as  walking  and  the  like. 

(f)     Father  by  self  torture  or  torturirj  g  other  creatures. 

(0)     From  Lagna,  the  Moon  and  the  Sun. 

(K)  Vide,  Stanza  20,  Ch.  8,  and  subject  to  planetary 
strength  determined  by  Stanza  11,  Ch.  20. 

4  If  such  yoga  planet  (a)  occupy  (6)  a  friendly  sign, 
a  person  will  acquire  wealth  (in  the  Antardasa  period 
of  such  planet)  through  a  friend.  If  such  yoga  planet 
occupy  an  inimical  sign,  the  person  will  get  wealth 
through  his  enemy  ;  and  if  such  planet  occupy  his  own 
house,  the  person  will  get  wealth  by  means  of  or  from  his 
house.  If,  when  the  Sun  happens  to  be  the  yoga  planet, 
he  occupy  his  exaltation  sign,  the  person  will  acquire 
wealth  by  his  own  powers.  If,  (at  the  time  of  birth) 
powerful  benefic  planets  occupy  the  llth  house,  the 
Lagna  or  the  2nd  house,  the  person  will  acquire  wealth 
in  varicms  ways  (o). 

NOTES. 

(a)    That  is,  either  the   planet   which  occupies   the 
10th  house  from  the  ascendant  or  from  the  Moou   or  the 


CH.  XI.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  117 

planet  which  is  the  lord  of  the  Navamsa  occupied  by  the 
lord  of  the  10th  house  from  the  Lagna,  from  the  Moon  and 
from  the  Sun. 

(3)     At  the  time  of  birth. 

(c)  In  other  words,  he  will  prosper  well  whatever 
may  be  the  avocation  he  may  choose  to  follow. 

CHAPTER  XI. 
On  Raja  Yoga  or  the  Birth  of  Kings. 

1.  According  to  the    Yavanas,  a  person  born   when 
three  or  more  malefic  planets  are  in  their  exaltation  signs 
becomes  a  tyrannical  king  (a).     According  to  Jeevasanna 
if  such  planets   be  malefic,   a   person  will  never   become 

a  king  (b). 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  three  or  more  planets  occupying  their  exal- 
tation signs  be  benefic,  the  person  becomes  a  good  king ; 
if  both  benefic  and  malefic,  he  will  become  both  a  good 
and  a  bad  king.  In  this  view,  Manittha  concurs. 

(&)  According  to  Jeevasanna,  such  a  person  will  be- 
come rich,  angry,  and  fond  of  quarrels  but  not  a  king. 
Varaha  Mihira  is  of  the  opinion  of  the  Yavanas.  For,  he 
says  in  his  Swalpa  Jataka  that  if  3  or  more  planets  occupy 
their  exaltation  signs,  a  person  becomes  a  king  if  he  is 
born  in  a  king's  family  ;  and  if  5  or  more  planets  occupy 
their  exaltation  signs,  he  becomes  a  king  in  whatever 
family  he  may  be  born.  The  same  remark  applies  to 
planets  occupying  Trikoua  or  Moola  Trikona  signs. 

2.  Of  the   four  planets    Mars,   Saturn,    the   Sun, 
and  Jupiter,  for  all  the  four  or  any  three  of  them  occupy- 
ing exaltation  signs,  while  each  of  the  planets  occupies  the 
Lagna,  the  number  of  Raja-yogas   is  16.     Again,,    of  the 
same  four  planets,  for  any  two  or  for  any  one  occupying 
exaltation  signs  and  in  each  case  for   each  of  the   planets 
occupying  the  Lagna    while  the   Moon     occupies    sign 
Cancer,  the  number  of  Raja-yogas  is  also  16. 


US  Srihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  XI. 

NOTES. 

32  Raja  yogas  are  mentioned  in  this  stanza.  A  per- 
son born  under  any  one  of  them  becomes  a  king :  suppose, 
all  the  4  planets — Mars,  Saturn,  the  Sun  and  Jupiter — to 
occupy  their  exaltation  signs  at  the  same  time ',  for  any  one 
of  such  signs  being  the  ascendant,  the  number  of  Raja- 
yogas  obtained  is  4.  Again,  of  the  same  4  planets,  there  are 
4  groups,  each  of  three  planets  :  thus  (1)  Mars,  Saturn  and 
the  Sun,  (2)  Mars,  Saturn  and  Jupiter  ;  (3),  Mars,  the  Sun 
and  Jupiter  ;  (4),  Saturn,  the  Sun  and  Jupiter.  In  the  case 
of  each  group,  for  all  the  three  planets  occupying  their 
exaltation  signs  and  for  each  of  such  signs  being  the  rising 
sign,  the  number  of  Rajayogas  obtained  is  3  ;  there  being 
4  such  groups,  the  number  of  Raja-yogas  obtained  from 
them  all  is  4  x  3  or  12.  Adding  this  to  the  4  yogas 
already  obtained,  we  get  the  first  16  yogas  mentioned  in 
the  text. 

Again,  of  the  same  4  planets,  there  are  6  groups  each 
of  2  planets  as  follow  :  ( i)  Mars  and  Saturn,  (2)  Mars  and 
the  Sun,  (3)  Mars  and  Jupiter,  (4)  Saturn  and  the  Sun, 
(5)  Saturn  and  Jupiter  and  (6)  the  Sun  and  Jupiter.  In 
the  case  of  each  group,  for  both  the  planets  occupying 
their  exaltation  signs  and  for  each  of  such  signs  being  the 
rising  sign,  the  number  of  Raja-yogas  obtained  is  2. 
There  being  6  such  groups,  the  number  of  yogas  obtained 
from  all  of  them  is  6x2  or  12.  'In  each  of  these  12  cases, 
the  Moon  occupies  sign  Cancer.  Again,  of  the  same  4 
planets,  by  their  severally  being  in  their  exaltation  signs, 
while  such  sign  is  also  the  rising  sign,  the  number  of 
Raja-yogas  obtained  is  4.  In  each  of  these  4  cases,  the 
Moon  occupies  sign  Cancer.  Adding  these  4  yogas  to  the 
12  yogas  already  obtained,  we  get  the  second  16  yogas 
mentioned  in  the  text. 

3.  The  Lagna  or  the  Moon  being  in  Vargottania 
positions,  of  all  the  planets  excepting  the  Moon,  for  the 


CH.  XL]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  119 

several  groups  of  four,  five  and  six  planets  aspecting  the 
L,agna  or  the  Moon,  the  number  of  yogas  obtained  in  each 
case  is  22. 

NOTES. 

44  Raja-yogas  are  described  in  this  stanza. 

The  six  planets  are,  the  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter, 
Venus  and  Saturn.  Of  these,  there  are  15  groups  each  of 
4  planets  as  follow  : — 

(1)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter. 

(2)  „  „            „  Venus. 

(3)  „  „            „  Saturn. 

(4)  „  „  Jupiter,  Venus. 

(5)  „'  „           „  Saturn. 

(6)  „  „  Venus,  Saturn. 

(7)  The  Sun,  Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus. 

(8)  „  „  „         Saturn. 

(9)  „  „  Venus,     Saturn. 
0°)            „      Jupiter, 

(11)  Mars,   Mercury,  Jupiter,    Venus. 

(12)  ,,  „  „        Saturn. 

(13)  „  „        Venus,   Saturn. 

(14)  „     Jupiter,        „ 

(15)  Mercury,        „  „  „ 

Again,  of  the  same  6  planets,  there  are  six  groups 
each  of  five  planets  as  follow  : — 

(1)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus. 

(2)  „          „  „  „  Saturn. 

(3)  ,,          „  ,,  Venus,  Saturn. 

(4)  „  „        Jupiter,        „  „ 

(5)  „  Mercury,     „  „  „ 

(6)  Mars,  „  „  „  „    > 
AH  the  6  planets  form  again  into  one  group. 

Thus,  there  are  22  groups.  For  the  planets  of  each 
group  aspecting  the  rising  sign  in  its  Vargottama  position, 
the  number  of  yogas  obtaine4  is  22  ;  and  by  their  aspect- 


120  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XI. 

ing  the  Moon  in  her  Vargottama  position,  the  number  of 
yogas  obtained  is  again  22.  According  to  Mandavya,  for 
each  of  the  12  signs  from  Aries  being  either  the  rising 
sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon  in  the  case  of  each 
yoga,  the  number  of  yogas  obtained  is  44  x  12  or  528. 

4.  When  Saturn  occupies  sign  Aquarius,    the  Sun 
sign  Aries,  the  Moon  sign  Taurus,  Mercury  sign  Gemini, 
Jupiter  sign  Leo,  and  Mars  sign  Scorpio,  a  person  born  be- 
comes a  king  when  the  rising  sign  is   Aquarius  or  when 
it  is  Aries  or  when  it  is  Taurus. 

Again,  when  Saturn  occupies  sign  Libra,  the  Moon 
sign  Taurus,  the  Sun  and  Mercury  sign  Virgo,  Venus 
sign  Libra,  Mars  sign  Aries,  and  Jupiter  Sign  Cancer,  a 
person  born  becomes  a  king  when  the  rising  sign  is 
Libra  or  when  it  is  Taurus. 

5.  When  Mars  occupies   sign   Capricorn,   the  Sun 
and  the  Moon  sign  Sagittari,  Saturn  sign  Capricorn  and 
when  the  rising  sign  is  also  Capricorn,  a  person   born  be- 
comes a  king. 

Again,  when  the  rising  sign  is  Capricorn  and  when 
Mars  and  the  Moon  occupy  it,  and  when  the  Sun  occupies 
sign  Sagittari,  a  person  born  becomes  a  king. 

Again,  when  Aries  is  the  rising  sign  and  when. the 
Sun  occupies  it,  when  Saturn  and  the  Moon  occupy  sign 
Libra  and  Jupiter  occupies  sign  Sagittari,  a  person  born 
becomes  a  king. 

6.  When  the   rising  sign  is   Taurus  and   the  Moon 
occupies  it,  when  the  Sun  occupies  sign  Leo,  Jupiter  sign 
Scorpio  and  Saturn  sign  Aquarius,  a  person  born  becomes 
a  king. 

Again,  when  the  rising  sign  is  Capricorn,  and  when 
Saturn  occupies  it,  and  when  the  Moon  occupies  the  3rd 
house,  Mars  the  6th  house,  Mercury  the  9th  house,  and 
Jupiter  the  12th  house,  a  person  born  becomes  a  virtuous 
and  famous  king. 


CH.  XI.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  121 

7.  When  the  Moon  and  Jupiter  occupy  sign  Sagittari, 
and  when  Mars  occupies  sign  Capricorn,  a  person   born 
becomes  a  king  when  Pisces  is  the  rising  sign  and  Venus 
occupies  it,  or  when  Virgo  is  rising  sign  and  Mercury 
occupies  it. 

Again,  when  the  rising  sign  is  Virgo  and  when  Mer- 
cury occupies  it,  when  Mars  and  Saturn  occupy  the  5th 
house,  when  the  Moon,  Jupiter  and  Venus  occupy  the  4th 
house,  a  person  born  becomes  a  king. 

8.  When  Pisces  is  the  rising  sign,  and  the  Moon  occu- 
pies it,  and  when  Aquarius,  Capricorn  and  Leo  are  respec- 
tively occupied  by  Saturn,    Mars   and  the  Sun,  a  person 
born  becomes  a  king. 

Again,  when  Mars  occupies  sign  Aries  and  Jupiter 
sign  Cancer,  a  person  bom  becomes  a  king  when  Aries  is 
the  rising  sign,  or  when  Cancer  is  the  rising  sign. 

9.  When  Cancer  is  the  rising  sign  and  Jupiter  occu- 
pies it,  and  when  the  Moon,  Venus  and   Mercury  occupy 
sign  Taurus  and  the   Sun  sign   Aries,  a  person  born   be- 
comes a  powerful  king. 

10.  When  Capricorn  is   the  rising  sign  and  Saturn 
occupies  it,  when  the  signs   Aries,  Cancer  and   Leo  are 
occupied  by  their  lords  and  when    Gemini  and    Libra  are 
respectively   occupied  by    Mercury  -and   Venus,  a  person 
born  becomes  a  famous  king. 

11.  When    Virgo  is   the  rising  sign   and    Mercury 
occupies  it,  when  Venus  occupies  sign  Gemini,  the  Moon 
and  Jupiter   occupy   sign   Pisces,   and  Mars  and    Saturn 
occupy  sign  Capricorn,  a  person   born  becomes  a  king. 

12.  Persons    born    under   the   various     yogas   des- 
cribed above  (<?),  though  they  may  be  born  in  low  families 
will  become  kings.    If  such   persons   are  born  in  a  king's 
family,  they  will  doubtless  become  kings.     We  shall  now 
proceed  to  describe   certain   yogas,   persons  born   under 

16 


122  Brihat  JataM.  [Cn.  XI. 

which  will  become  kings  if  they  belong  to  a  king's  family 
and  will  become  rich,  if  otherwise. 

NOTES. 

(«)     96  Rajayogas  have  been   described  in  all. 

13.  When  three   or  more  planets  are  powerful   and 
occupy  either  their  exaltation  signs  or  their  Moolatrikona 
signs,    a   person  born  becomes   a   king  if  he  belongs  to  a 
king's  family. 

Again,  when  five  or  more  planets  are  powerful  and 
occupy  their  exaltations  signs  or  their  Moolatrikona  signs, 
a  person  born  becomes  a  king  even  if  he  be  born  in  alow 
family.  If,  in  either  case,  the  number  of  powerful  planets 
be  less  than  three  "or  five,  the  persons  described  above 
will  not  become  kings  but  will  become  only  rich. 

NOTES. 

If  the  3  or  5  planets  be  not  all  powerful,  the  person 
will  not  become  a  king.  Again,  it  is  not  necessary  that 
all  the  planets  must  occupy  their  exaltation  or  Moolatri- 
kona signs.  It  will  be  enough  if  some  ba  in  the  exalta- 
tion signs  and  some  in  the  Moolatrikona  signs. 

14.  When  Aries  is  the  rising  sign  and  the  Sun  (a)  and 
the  Moon  occupy  it,  when  Mars  occupies  sign  Capricorn, 
Saturn  sign  Aquarius,  and  Jupiter  sign  Sagittari,  a  person 
born  becomes  a  king  if  he  belongs  to  a  king's  family  (6). 

NOTES. 

(a)  According     to   another     reading,     the    Sun   is 
made  to  occupy  sign  L,eo  and  the  yoga  remains  the  same 
in  other  respects. 

(b)  And  will  become  only  rich,  if  otherwise. 

15.  When  Venus  occupies  the   4th  house,  and  when 
such  house  is  his  own,  when  the  Moon  occupies  the  9th 
house,  and  when  the  other  planets  occupy  the  3rd,  1st  and 
the   llth   houses,   a   person   born   becomes   a  king  if  he 
belongs  to  a  king's  family  (#), 


CH.  XL]  Brihat  Jatakd.  123 

NOTES. 

s 

(a)     And  only  rich,  if  otherwise. 

As  Venus  is  said  to  be  in  his  Swakshetra  he  might 
be  either  in  sign  Taurus  or  in  sign  Libra.  The  Lagna 
must  therefore  be  either  sign  Aquarius  or  sign  Cancer 
respectively.  As  the  Moon  is  said  to  be  in  the  9th  house 
he  occupies  sign  Libra  in  the  former  case  and  sign  Pisces 
in  the  latter,  and  as  the  other  planets  are  said  to  occupy 
the  3rd,  1st  and  llth  houses  from  Lagna,  these  houses 
are  signs  Aries,  Aquarius  and  Sagittari  in  the  one  case 
and  Virgo,  Cancer,  and  Taurus  in  the  other.  Thus  two 
yogas  are  referred  to  in  this  stanza. 

16.  When   Mercury  is   powerful  and   occupies   the 
rising  sign  («),  when  a  powerful  beuefic    planet  (6)  occu- 
pies the  9th  house  00  and  when  the  other  planets  occupy 
the  9th,  2nd,  3rd,  6th  10th,  and  llth  houses  (d),  a  person 
born  becomes  a   virtuous   king  if  he  belongs  to  a   king's 
family. 

NOTES. 

(«)     This  may  be  any  one  of  the  12  signs. 
(d)     This  is,  either  Jupiter  or  Venus. 

(c)  The  4th  house,  according  to  a  different  reading. 

(d)  In  any  way  according  to  the  Commentator. 

(e)  And  only  rich,  if  otherwise. 

17.  When  Taurus  is  the  rising  sign  and  the   Moon 
occupies  it,  when  Jupiter  occupies  the  2nd  house,    Saturn 
the  6th  house,  and  the  other   planets  the    llth  house,   a 
person  born   becomes  a  king   if  he   belongs  to   a  king's 
family  (a). 

Again,  when  Jupiter  occupies  the  4th  house,  the  Suti 
and  the  Moon  occupy  the  10th  house,  when  Saturn  occu- 
pies the  Lagna  (b)  and  when  the  other  planets  occupy 
the  llth  house,  a  person  born  becomes  a  king  if  he  be 
born  in  a  king's  family  (G), 


124  Brihal  Sdtakd.  [Cn.  XL 

NOTES. 

(a)  And  only  rich,  if  otherwise. 

(b)  This  may  be  any  one  of  the  12  signs   according 
to  the  Commentator. 

(G)    And  only  rich,  if  otherwise. 

18.  When  the  Moon  occupies  the  10th  house,  Saturn 
the  11  th  house,   Jupiter   the    rising    sign,    Mercury  and 
Mars  the  2nd  house,  and  the  Sun  and   Venus   occupy  the 
4th  house,  a  person  born  becomes  a  king  if  he  belongs  to 
a  king's  family  (#). 

Again,  when  Mars  and  Saturn  occupy  the  rising  sign, 
when  the  Moon  occupies  the  4th  house,  Jupiter  the  7th 
house,  Venus  the  9th  house,  the  Sun  the  10th  house,  and 
Mercury  the  llth  house,  a  person  born  becomes  a  king  if 
he  belongs  to  a  king's  family  (<$). 

NOTES. 
(#),  (b)     And  only  rich,  if  otherwise. 

19.  Of  the   planets   producing  a  Rajayoga  either  in 
the  Dasa  periods  O)  of  those  which    occupy    the  10th 
house  or  the  Lagna  (&)  or  in   that  of  the  most  powerful 
planet  (c}}  a  person  obtains  kingdom  and  he  loses  it  and 
courts  the  friendship  of  another  king  in  the  Dasa  periods 
(d)  of  the  planets  occupying  inimical  or  depression  signs  (<?)• 

NOTES. 

(a)  Or  Antardasa  periods,  according  to  the  Commen- 
tator. 

(&)  If  there  be  planets  both  in  thelyagnaand  in  the 
10th  house  or  if  there  be  several  planets  in  either,  then  in 
the  Antardasa  period  of  the  most  powerful  of  them. 

(c)  IE  there  be  no   planets  both  in  the  Lagna  and  in 
the  10th  house. 

(d)  Or   Antardasa  periods  according  to    the   Com- 
mentator. 


XL]  Bnhat  Jdtakd. 

(e)  If  such  planets  be  powerful,  the  king  will  lose 
his  kingdom  permanently,  andjf  they  be  not  powerful,  he 
will  recover  it  by  the  help  of  his  allies. 

20.  When  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Mercury  occupy  the 
rising  sign,  (a)  when  Saturn  occupies  the  7th  house  and 
the  Sun  the  10th  house,  a  person  born  will  live  in  great 
comfort  and  luxury  (b). 

Again,  when  powerful  benefic  signs  (c)  form  the  Ken- 
dras  (<7)  and  malefic  planets  occupy  malefic  signs,  a  per- 
son born  becomes  rich  and  the  chief  of  hunters  or  robbers. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  rising  sign  is  Aries  according  to   the  Com- 
mentator. 

The  interpretation  given  of  this  portion  of  the 
text  is  objected  to  by  some  on  the  ground  that  when  Venus 
and  Mercury  (the  inferior  planets)  occupy  the  rising  sign 
the  Sun  cannot  occupy  the  10th  house — a  place  more  than 
60  degrees  removed  from  them.  For,  the  greatest  elonga- 
tions of  the  two  planets  from  the  Sun  are  respectively  47 
and  29  degrees.  Accordingly,  the  following  interpretation 
is  proposed  : — 

"  If  the  rising  sign  be  the  house  of  Jupiter,  Venus  or  Mercury." 

Hhatta  Utpala,  the  Commentator,  while  granting  the 
validity  of  the[objection,  says,  that  the  interpretation  object- 
ed to  has  the  support  of  Garga  whom  he  quotes.  A  similar 
remark  applies  to  the  Vajra  and  other  yogas  described  in 
Stanza  5  of  the  next  Chapter,  and  in  stanza  6  of  the  Same. 
Varaha  Mihira,  while  admitting  the  impossibility  of  the 
yoga,  says  that  his  task  is  simply  to  state  the  views  of  the 
ancient  writers  and  nothing  more.  Vide,  notes  to  Stanza 
6,  Chapter  XII. 

(b)  Though  he  may  be   poor  and   under   whatever 
Yoga  he  may  be  born. 

(c)  The  signs  of  benefic  planets. 


126  Brihat  Jatakti.  [CH.  3^11. 

(d)    This  portion  of  the  text   is  interpreted  by  some 
as  follows : 

"When  powerful  benetic  planets  occupy  the  Keiidras." 

But  this  interpretation  is  opposed  to  Garga  whom  the 

inienffltor  minf-p<: 


Commentator  quotes. 


CHAPTER  XII. 
On  Nabhasa  Yogas. 

1.  Nine,  ten  and  eight,  multiplied  respectively  by 
three,  three  and  four  give  the  sums  of  the  numbers  of  the 
first  two,  the  first  three,  and  all  the  four  groups  of  Nabhasa 
yogas  (a).  The  Yavanas  treat  extensively  of  one  thousand 
and  eight  hundred  of  such  yogas  (&).  We  shall  here  sum- 
marise them  (c], 

NOTES. 

(#)  Curiously  enough,  the  Author  adopts  a  rather 
circuitous  method  of  stating  the  numbers  of  the  several 
groups  of  Nabhasa  yogas.  The  statement  amounts  to  an 
Algebraical  problem  :  to  find  4  numbers  such  that  the  Ist-f- 
the2nd-9x3  =  '27.  Ist  +  2nd  +  3rd  =  10x3  =  30.  1st  +  2nd 
+  3rd  +  4th  =  8  x  4  =  32.  It  is  clear  that  the  number  of  the  last 
group  =  32—30  =  2.  The  number  of  the  3rd  group  =  30— 
27  =  3.  The  number  of  the  first  and  second  groups  iff 
given  as  27.  According  to  the  Commentator,  the  1st 
group  consists  of  20  yogas  and  the  2nd  of  7.  In  other 
words,  what  the  Author  wants  to  say  is  briefly  this— The 
Nabhasa  yogas  cousist  of  4  groups  as  follow  : 

Akriti  yogas  20  ;  Sankhya  yogas  7  ;  Asraya  yogas  3  ; 
and  Dal  a  yogas  2. 

(b)  Vide,  note  at  the  end  of  the  Chapter  for  the 
particulars  of  the  1800  Nabhasa  yogas.  According  to 
Suchidhwaja,  the  number  of  Nabhasa  yogas  is  unlimited 
though  the  Yavanas  speak  of  1,800  of  them. 


CH.  XII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  127 

(c]  The  Author  says  that  his  20  Akriti  yogas  and, 
7  Sankahya  yogas  contain  the  1800  yogas  of  the  Yavanas 
and  that  he  speaks  only  of  32  yogas,  because  their  effects 
are  the  same  as  the  effects  of  the  1800  yogas. 

2.  According  to  Satyachariyar,  if  all  the  planets  occupy 
(«)  the   movable,  fixed   or  common    signs,    the  yogas   are 
respectively  known  as  Rajju,  Musala,  and  Nala  and  these 
three  form  the  group  of  Asraya  yogas.  Again  according  to 
Parasara,  if  the  benefic  planets  (3)  occupy  the  Kendras  (c), 
the  yoga  is  known  as  Srik  or  Mala  ;  and  if  malefic  planets, 
(d)  occupy  the  Kendras  (e)   the  yoga   is  known  as  Sarpa. 
These  two  form  the  group  of  Dala  yogas. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes  the  three  Asraya 
Yogas  and  the  two  Dala  yogas. 

(a)  One  or  two  or  three  or  all  the  four  of  the  signs. 
According  to  some,  the  planets  ought  to  occupy  all  the  four 
signs.  This  is  opposed  to  Garga. 

(1}  Vtz.}  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus  according  to 
Garga. 

(c)  Three  of  the  Kendras  according  to  Garga  ;  while 
there  are  no  malefic  planets  in  any  of  the  Kendra  houses 
according  to  Badarayana. 

(d)  Viz. : — The  Sun,  Mars  and  Saturn  according  to 
Garga. 

0)  Three  of  the  Kendras  according  to  Garga  while 
there  are  no  benefic  planets  in  any  of  the  Kendra  houses 
according  to  Badarayana. 

3.  Other  Astrologers  say  that  the  Asraya  yogas  are 
identical  with  the  Yava  (a),  Abja  (6\  Vajra  (c\  Andaja  (d), 
Gola  (e),  and  the  like  yogas  (/>,  and  that  when  the  effects  of 
planets  occupying  the  Kendras  are  described,  the  effects  of 
Dala  yogas  are  also  described  and  they  produce  no  separate 
effects  (o}. 


128  Brihat  Jdiaka.  [CH.  XII. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  explains  the  reason  why 
certain  Astrologers  have  failed  to  treat  of  the  Asraya  and 
Dala  yogas  in  their  work?. 

(a),  (6)  (c)    Vide  Stanza  5.  These  are  Akriti  yogas. 

(d]  Vide  Stanza  4.  This  also  is  an  Akriti  yoga. 

(e)  Vide  Stanza  10.  This  is  one  of  the  Sankhya  yogas. 
(/}     The  like  yogas :  such   as  Sakata  (Stanza  4)   an 

Akriti   yoga;  Kedara,  Sula  and  Yuga  (Stanza  10)  Saukh- 
ya  yogas. 

The  Asraya  yogas  may  be  these  and  may  not  be  these ; 
hence,  the  Anthor  has  deemed  it  advisable  to  treat  them 
separately.  For  instance,  if  all  the  planets  occupy  signs 
Gemini  and  Sagittari — 2  of  the  common  signs — when  one 
of  these  is  also  the  rising  sign,  the  yoga  is  known  both  as 
Vajra  and  Nala  ;  but  if  any  other  sign  be  the  rising  sign, 
it  is  not  a  Vajra  yoga  but  only  a  Nala  yoga. 

(§)  As  regards  the  Dala  yogas,  it  is  said  that  other 
writers  have  described  the  effects  of  benefic  and  of  malefic 
planets  occupying  the  Kendras  and  as  these  are  also  the 
effects  of  the  two  Dala  yogas  they  have  omitted  to  treat  of 
them  separately ;  the  Author  treats  of  these  separately  in 
order  to  make  it  known  that  the  two  are  Nabhasa  yogas 
and  as  such  their  effects  are  felt  throughout  life  (vide 
Stanza  19\  While  the  other  writers  have  included  them 
among  other  yogas. 

4.  If  all  the  planets  occupy  any  two  adjacent  Kendras, 
the  yoga  is  known  as  Gada  (a).  If  they  all  occupy  the 
ascendant  and  the  7th  house,  the  yoga  is  known  as 
Sakata.  If  all  the  planets  occupy  the  4th  and  the  10th 
house,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Vihaga  (Andaja)  If  all  the 
planets  occupy  the  ascendant,  the  5th  and  9th  houses, 
the  yoga  is  known  as  Sringataka  and  if  all  the  planets 
occupy  other  triangular  houses,  the  yoga  is  kaown  as 
Hala  (6), 


CH.  XII.]  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  129 

NOTES. 

The  Author  now  proceeds  to  describe  the  20  Akriti 
yogas.  Five  of  them  are  described  in  this  stanza. 

(a)  This  may  be  in  4  ways  :  All  the  four  planets  may 
occupy,  (l)the  1st  and  the  4th  houses,  (2)  the  4th  and   7th 
houses,  (3)  the  7th  and  the  10th  houses,  and  (4)  the  10th  and 
the  1st  houses.    The  Yavanas  consider  these  4  as  four  dis- 
tinct yogas  and  call  them  respectively   as  Gada,   Sankha, 
Vibhuka  and  Dwaja.      (.Vide  notes  at  the   end  of  the 
Chapter.) 

(b)  This  may  be  in  three  ways  :  all  the  planets  may 
occupy,  (1)  the  2nd,  6th  and  the  10th  houses,  (2)  the  3rd, 
7th  and  llth  houses,  and  (3)  the  4th,  8th  and  the   12th 

houses. 

5.  If  the  benefic  planets  occupy  the  ascendant  and 
the  7th  house  while  the  malefic  planets  occupy  the  4th  and 
the  10th  houses,  the   Yoga  is  known  as  Vajra ;  and  if  the 
reverse  be  the  case  (a)   the  yoga  is  known  as  the    Yava. 
Again,  if  all  the  planets  occupy  the  four  Kendras,  the  yoga 
is  known  as  Kamala  (Abja)  and   if  they  occupy  the   four 
Panaphara  (b)  or  the  four  Apoklima  (c)  houses,  the  yoga  is 
known  as  Vapi. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  four  more  Akriti  yogas  are  described. 

(a)  That  is,  if  the  malefic  planets  occupy  the  ascen- 
dant and  the  7th  house,  while  the  benefic  planets  occupy 
the  4th  and  10th  houses. 

(6)    That  is,  the  2nd,  5th,  8th  and  the  llth  houses. 

(c)  That  is,  the  3rd,  6th,  9th  and  the  12th  houses. 

6.  I  have  described  the  Vajra  and   other  (a)  yogas 
adopting  the  view  of  former  writers  (£).  How  can  Mercury 
and  Venus  occupy  the  4th  sign  (c)  from  the  Sun  (d)  ? 

17 


130  Brihat  JdtaU.  [Cn.  XH. 

NOTES. 

(0)  '  That  is,  the  Yava  yoga  and  the  yogas  men- 
tioned in  the  beginning  of  stanza  20,  of  the  Chapter 
on  Raja-yoga. 

(b)  Maya,  Yavaiia,  Garga  and  others. 

(c)  On  either  side  :  that  is   the  4th   or   10th  house 
from  the  Sun. 

(d)  \ According     to     Brahma    Sree     Sundareswara 
Srauti   of  Tiruvadi,  the  Vajra   and  Yava  yogas   refer  to 
the  positions  of  the  planets  in  the  Bhava  Chakra  and  not 
to  their  positions  in  their   Rasi   Chakra   as   supposed   by 
Varaha  Mihira.     He  is,  therefore,  of  opinion   that  Garga 
and   other   writers   have   not  erred  in    treating  of  these 
yogas  as  possible  ones.     This,  we  shall  now  explain  : 

Varaha  Mihira  says  "  How  can  Mercury  and  Venus 
occupy  the  4th  sign  from  the  Sun."  The  word  used  in  the 
text  is  Bhavana  which  means  a  sign  of  the  Zodiac  (vide 
Stanza  4,  Chapter  I).  If  the  Vajra  and  Yava  yogas  refer 
to  the  positions  of  the  planets  in  the  Rasi  Chakra,  then, 
Varaha  Mihira  is  right  in  declaring  that  the  ancient 
writers  have  erred  ;  but  not  so  if  the  yogas  refer  to  the 
positions  of  the  planets  in  the  Bhava  Chakra.  Indeed, 
in  all  yogas  where  the  positions  of  the  planets  are  stated  with 
reference  to  particular  Bhavas  or  houses  from  the  ascen- 
dant, they  refer  to  Bhava  Chakra.  As  it  is  somewhat 
tedious  to  construct  this  Chakra  table,  most  of  the 
Astrologers  confound  it  with  the  other  Chakra  and 
wrongly  apply  all  yogas  to  the  Rasi  Chakra.  This  is  one 
of  fruitful  sources  of  error  in  astrological  predictions.  We 
shall  now  explain  what  is  meant  by  Bhava  Chakra. 

Both  Rasi  and  Bhava  Chakras  are  divisions  of  the 
ecliptic  ;  the  former  is  division  into  12  equal  parts  and 
the  latter  is  division  into  12  unequal  parts  depending  upon 
the  latitude  of  the  place. 


CH.  XII.J  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  l3l 

Bhaskara  Charyar  defines  Bhava  Chakra  as   follows 
in  his  Gola  Adhyaya  :  — 


"  The  point  where  the  ecliptic  cuts  the  horizon  in 
the  East  is  known  as  Eastern  or  rising  Lagna,  and  in  the 
West  as  the  Western  or  setting  L,agna  and  the  points 
where  the  meridian  of  the  place  cuts  the  ecliptic  are 
known  as  Madhya  or  Middle  L/aguas,—  the  10th  and  the 
4th  Lagnas." 

These  4  points  are  respectively  the  middle  points 
of  the  1st,  7th,  10th  and  4th  Bhavas.  The  two  points  of 
trisection  of  the  distance  between  the  middle  points  of 
the  1st  and  4th  Bhavas  are  respectively  the  middle  points 
of  the  '2nd  and  3ra  Bhavas.  The  two  points  of  trisection 
of  the  distance  between  the  middle  points  of  the  4th  and 
7th  Bhavas  are  respectively  the  middle  points  of  the  5th 
and  6th  Bhavas.  The  two  points  of  trisection  of  the  dis- 
tance between  middle  points  of  the  7th  and  10th  Bhavas 
are  the  middle  points  of  the  8th  and  9th  Bhavas.  And  the 
two  points  of  trisection  of  the  distance  between  the  middle 
points  of  the  10th  and  1st  Bhavas  are  the  middle  points 
of  the  llth  and  12th  Bhavas.  Thus,  we  have  obtained 
the  middle  points  of  the  12  Bhavas.  Now,  if  we  bisect 
these  twelve  divisions  of  the  ecliptic,  the  space  between 
the  two  points  of  bisection  immediately  on  both  sides  of 
the  middle  point  of  each  Bhava  will  form  a  Bhava. 

Now,  as  the  ecliptic  is  inclined  to  the  equator  by 
about  23  degrees,  the  pole  of  the  ecliptic  will  always  be 
removed  from  the  pole  of  the  equator  by  about  23  degrees 
and  will  describe  round  it  a  circle  in  the  course  of  each 


132  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XII. 

day.  So  that,  every  day,  the  plane  of  the  ecliptic  meridian 
will  coincide  with  the  plane  of  the  meridian  of  the  place 
twice.  Now,  the  point  where  the  ecliptic  meridian  bisects 
the  ecliptic  is  known  in  Astronomy  as  the  Nonagesimal 
point.  Call  this  point  N.  Call  the  point  where  the 
meridian  of  the  place  cuts  the  ecliptic  M.  and  the  points 
where  the  horizon  cuts  the  ecliptic  in  the  East  and  West 
as  E.  and  W.  respectively. 

W -E 

M     N 

So  that,  N  E  =  N  W  =  90  Degree  =  3  signs,  and  M  E 
is  always  3  Bhavas  and  M  W  is  also  3  Bhavas,  M  being 
the  middle  point  of  the  10th  Bhava. 

Now,  when  the  plane  of  the  ecliptic  meridian  coincides 
with  the  plane  of  the  merdian  of  the  place,  N  coincides 
with  M  and  therefore  NM  vanishes  and  the  Rasi  and 
Bhava  Chakras  coincide.  This  will  occur  twice  a  day. 
At  other  times,  they  will  differ.  Now,  in  the  higher  lati- 
tudes, the  angle  between  the  two  rnerdian  lines  increases. 
(  Vide  Spherical  Trigonometry).  Therefore,  the  distance 
N  M  also  increases  and  M  W  accordingly  diminishes  and 
it  may  even  become  less  than  47  and  27  degrees  and  it 
nevertheless  contains  3  Bhavas.  So  that,  it  is  possible 
for  Mercury  and  Venus  to  occupy  M  (the  10th  Bhava) 
while  the  Sun  occupies  W  (the  7th  Bhava),  *'.£.,  Venus 
and  Mercury  may  occupy  the  4th  Bhava  from  the  Sun. 
So  that,  Garga  and  other  writers  have  not  erred  if  the 
Vajra  and  Yava  yogas  refer  to  the  positions  of  the  planets 
in  the  Bhava  Chakra. 

7.  If  all  the  planets  occupy  the  four  signs  (a)  from 
the  ascendant,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Yupa  ;  if  they 
occupy  the  four  signs  (6)  from  the  fourth  house,  the  yoga 
is  known  as  Ishu  or  Bana  ;  if  they  occupy  the  four  signs 
(c)  from  the  seventh  house,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Sakti ; 


CH.  XII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd. 

and  if  they  occupy  the  four  signs  (d)  from  the  tenth  house 
the  yoga  is  known  as  Danda. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes  four  more  Akriti 
yogas. 

(a)  That  is,  the  ascendant  and  the  2nd,  3rd  and  4th 
houses. 

(b}     That  is,  the  4th,  5th,  6th  and  the  7th  houses. 

(<?)     That  is,  the  7th,  8th,  9th  and  the  10th  houses. 

(d)  That  is,  the  10th,  llth  and  the  12th  houses  and 
the  ascendant. 

8.  If,  as  before,  all  the  planets  occupy  the  seven 
signs  (a)  from  the  ascendant  the  yoga  is  known  as  Nau  ; 
if  they  occupy  the  seven  signs  (6)  from  the  fourth  house, 
the  yoga  is  known  as  Kuta  ;  if  they  occupy  the  seven 
signs  (c)  from  the  seventh  house,  the  yoga  is  known  as 
Chhatra  ;  and  if  they  occupy  the  seven  signs  (d)  from  the 
tenth  house,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Chapa.  Again,  if  all 
the  planets  occupy  the  seven  houses  beginning  from  a 
Panaphara  or  Apoklima  house,  the  yoga  is  known  as 
Ardha-Chandra  (e). 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes  five  more  Akriti 
yogas. 

(a)  That  is,  the  1st,  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  5th,  6th  and  the 
7th  houses. 

(b)  That  is,  from  the  4th  to  the  10th  house. 

(c)  That  is,  from  the  7th  to  the  12th  house  and  the 
ascendant. 

(d)  That  is  from   the  10th   to  the  12th  house  and 
from  the  ascendant  to  the  4th  house. 

(e)  As  there  are  4  Panaphara  and  4  Apoklima  bouses, 
the  Ardha-Chandra  yogas  are  of  8  kinds  :  viz.,  all  the 


134  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XII. 

planets  may  occupy  (1)  from  the  2nd  to  the  8th  house;  (2) 
from  the  3rd  to  the  9th  house  ;  (3)  from  the  5th  to  the 
llth  house  ;  (4)  from  the  6th  to  the  12th  house  ;  (5)  from 
the  8th  to  the  2nd  house  ;  (6)  from  the  9th  to  the  3rd 
house  ;  (7)  from  the  \  1th  to  the  5th  house  ;  and  (8)  from 
the  12th  to  the  6th  house. 

9.  If  the  planets  (a)  occupy  the   six  alternate  signs 
(ft)  beginning  from  the  second   house  the   yoga  is   known 
as  Samudra,  and  if  they  occupy  the  six   alternate  signs  (c) 
beginning  from    the   ascendant,    the    yoga  is   known   as 
Chakra.     Thus  the   Akrita    yogas  have   been   described 
briefly. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,    the  Author  describes  the  remaining 
two  (out  of  20)  Akriti  yogas. 

(a)  All  the  seven  planets. 

(b)  That  is,  the  2nd,  4th,  6th,  8th,  10th  and  the  12th 
houses. 

(c)  That  is,  the  1st,  3rd,  5th,  7th,  9th  and  the  llth 
houses. 

10.  If  all  the  planets  occupy  any  seven  signs,   the 
yoga  is  known  as  Vallaki  ;  if  they  occupy   any  six   signs, 
the  yoga  is  known  as   Damini  ;  if  they  occupy  any   five 
signs,  it  is  known  as  Pasa  ;  if  any  four  signs,  it  is  known 
as  Kedara  ;  if  any  three   signs,  it  is    known  as    Sula  ;  if 
any  two  signs,  it  is  known  as  Yuga  ;  and  if  they  occupy  a 
single  sign,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Gola.    When  any  of  these 
Sankhya  yogas  are  at  the   same  time  any  other   Nabbasa 
yogas,  they  are  to  be  treated  as  belonging  to    the   latter 
class  (a). 

NOTES. 

(a)     In  this  Stanza,   the  Author  describes  the  seven 
Sankhya  yogas. 


CH.  XII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  135 

For  instance,  the  Gada,  Sakata  and  Vihaga  yogas 
described  in  Stanza  4-  are  to  be  treated  only  as  such  and 
not  as  Yuga  yogas  described  in  this  stanza  ;  the  Stringa- 
taka  and  Hala  yogas  described  in  Stanza  4  are  to  be  treat- 
ed only  as  such  and  not  as  Sula  yogas  described  in  this 
stanza.  Again,  the  Vajra,  Yava,  Kamala  and  Vapi  yogas 
described  in  Stanza  5  as  well  as  the  Yupa,  Ishu,  Sakti  and 
Danda  yogas  described  in  Stanza  7  shall  not  be  con- 
founded with  the  Kedara  yogas  described  in  this  stanza. 
And  so  on. 

11.  A  person  born   under  a  Rajju   yoga  will  be  jea- 
lous of  the  wealth  of  others,  will  proceed  to  foreign  lands 
and  will  be   fond  of  travelling  ;  a   person  born  under  a 
Musala  yoga  will  be  respectable,  rich,  and  will  engage  in 
various  undertakings  ;   and  a  person  born   under  a   Nala 
yoga  will  be  of  defective   organs,  settled  views,  rich  and 
skilled  in    work     (#).     Again,    a  person   born   under   a 
Srik  yoga  will  live   in  comfort  and  luxury,  and  one  born 
under  a  Sarpa  yoga  will  be  miserable  in  many  ways  (£). 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes  the  effects  of  the 
three  Asraya  yogas  and  of  the  two  Dala  yogas. 
(a)     According  to  Satyacharyar. 
(8}     According  to  Garga. 

12.  If  the  Asraya  yogas  partake  at  the  same  time  of 
the  character  of  other  yogas,  they  should  be  treated  as  the 
latter  ;  otherwise,  they  produce  the  effects  described  for 
them. 

NOTES. 

This  subject  has  already  been  discussed  in  Stanza  3. 
For  instance,  if  a  Rajju  yoga  or  a  Musala  yoga  or  a  Nala 
yoga  partake  of  the  nature  of  a  Kamala  yoga  (Stanza  5), 
it  should  be  treated  as  the  latter. 


136  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XII. 

13.  A  person  born   under  a  Gada  yoga  will  perform 
sacrificial  rites,  will  be  rich,  and   will  ever -be   engaged  in 
the  acquisition  of  wealth  ;  a  person    born  under  a  Sakata 
yoga  will  live   by   means   of  carts,  will  be   afflicted    with 
diseases,   and   will  have   a  mean    wife  ;  a   person   born 
under  a  Vihaga  yoga   will    live   by   carrying   messages, 
will  be  fond  of  travels  and  will   cause  quarrels  ;  a  person 
born  under  a  Sringataka  yoga  will  be  happy  in  the  latter 
end  of  life  (a)  and  a  person  born  under   a  Hala  yoga  will 
till  lands. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes   the   effects   of 
five  Akriti  yogas. 

(a)    The  word  in  the  text  is  "  Chira   Sukhi."     This 
is  interpreted  by  some  to  mean  "  happy  for  a  long   time." 
This   interpretation  is  opposed  to  Garga  who  adds   that 
the  person  will  also  be  of  harsh  speech. 

14.  A  person  born  under  a  Vajrayoga  will  be  happy 
both   at  the   beginning  and  end  of  life,  will  be  a   general 
favourite  and  will  be  bold  in  fight.   A  person  born  in  Yava 
yoga  will  be  powerful  and  will  be  happy  at  the  middle  of 
life.     A  person  born  under   a  Padma  (Karnala)  yoga   will 
be  of  great  renown,  will  be  greatly  happy  and  possessed  of 
many  attainments.     A    person   born  under  a  Vapi   yoga 
will  live  in  poor  comfort   for  a  long  time,   will  bury  his 
wealth  under  ground  and  will  be  a  miser. 

NOTES. 

In  the   stanza,   the   Author    describes  the   effects  of 
four  more  Akriti  yogas. 

15.  A  person  born  under  a  Yupa  yoga  will  be  liberal 
in    gift    and    will   perform    high    sacrificial    rights.     A 
person    born  under  a  Bana    (Ishu)   yoga  will  indulge  in 
torture,  will  be  a  jailor  and  will  make    arrows.     A  person 
born  under  a  Sakti  yoga  will  engage  in  deeds  disgraceful 


CH.  XII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  137 

to  his  rank  in  life,  will  not  be  skilled  in  work  and  will 
be  without  money  and  comfort.  A  person  born  under  a 
Danda  yoga  will  be  separated  from  persons  of  his  affec- 
tion (a)  and  will  earn  his  livelihood  by  the  lowest  of 
means,  viz.,  servitude  (3). 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,   the  Author  describes  the  effects  of 
four  more  Akriti  yogas. 
(a)    Sons  and  the  like. 
(£)     That  is,  the  work  of  a  Sudra. 

16.  A  person  born  under  a  Nau  yoga  will  be  of  wide 
spread  fame,   happy   only  now  and   then,  and   will    be  a 
miser.     A  person  born  under  a   Kuta  yoga  will  indulge 
in  lies,  and  will  be   a  jailor  (a).     A  person  born  under  a. 
Chatra  yoga  will  make  his  people  happy  and  will  live  in 
comfort  in  the  latter  end  of  life.     A  person  born  under  a 
Chapa  yoga  will  delight  in  fight  and  will  live  in  comfort 
both  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  life. 

NOTES. 

The  effects  of  four  more  Akriti  yogas  are  described  in 
this  stanza. 

(a)  According  to  another  reading,  the  person  will 
also  be  a  miser. 

17.  A  person  born  under  an  Ardha-Chandra  yoga 
will  be  a  general  favourite,   of  agreeable   person   and  be 
respected  by  all.     A  person  born  under  a  Samudra  yoga 
will  be  as  prosperous  as  a  king  and  will  live   in  comfort. 
A  person  born  under   a  Chakra   yoga  will  have  his    feet 
illumined  by  the  lustre  of  the  gems  in  the  crowns  of  kings 
falling  prostrate  before   him  by   way  of  respect  and  sub- 
mission (a).     A  person  born  in  a  Vallaki  yoga  will  be  in- 
telligent and  will  delight  in  music  and  dance, 

13 


Srihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XII. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes  the  effects  of  the 
three  more  Akriti  yogas  and  of  the  first  Sankhya  yoga. 

(a)  In  other  words,  he  will  become  an  emperor  or 
king  of  kings  by  virtue  of  his  attainments  in  Divine 
knowledge  according  to  the  Commentator. 

18.  Aperson  born  under  a  Damini  yoga  will  beliberal 
in  gift,  will  delight  in  helping  others  and  will  possess  many 
cows.    A  person  born  in  a  Pasa  yoga  will,  with  his  servants 
and  kinsmen,  earn  wealth  by  proper  means.     A  person 
born  under  a  Kedara  yoga  will  till  lands,  and  by  doing 
good  deeds   will  be  useful   to  many   persons.     A  person 
born  under  a  Sula  yoga  will  be  bold  in  fight,  will  receive 
blows  and  will  be  fond  of  money  (a)  but  will  be  poor. 

NOTES. 

• 

In  this  stanza,  the  Author  describes  the  effects  of  four 
more  Sankhya  yogas. 

(a)  "  Will  be  fond  of  torture  "  according  to  some 
other  reading. 

19.  A  person  born  under  a  Yuga  yoga   will  be  poor 
and  will  act  in  contravention    of   Vedic    rules.     A  person 
born  under  a  Gola  yoga   will   be   poor,   dirty,   ignorant, 
addicted  to  low  deeds,  unskilled  in    work,  and    will    ever 
be  wandering   from  place  to  place  (a).     Thus,    have  been 
described   the  several  Nabhasa   yogas   with   their  effects. 
These  effects  are  felt  throughout  a  man's  life. 

NOTES. 

In  this  stanza,  the  effects  of  the  remaining  two  San- 
khya yogas  are  described. 

(a)  For  bare  subsistence  according  to  the  Commen- 
tator. 

(b)  Except  in  the  case   of   Vajra  and    other  yogas 
tanza  14)   whose   effects  will  be  felt,   as   stated,  in 


CH.  XII.]  Bfihat  Utakd.  139 

particular  Autardasa  periods  of  a  person's  life.  So  that, 
wherever  no  periods  are  mentioned,  the  effects  will  be 
felt  throughout  life  [Vide,  Stanza  20,  Chap.  8.] 


NOTES. — Dala  Yogas  will  coincide  neither  with 
Asraya  yogas  nor  with  Akriti  yogas.  They  might  coin- 
cide with  Sankhya  yogas — with  the  Vallaki,  the  Damini, 
the  Pasa,  or  the  Kedara  yogas,  in  which  case  the  yogas 
are  to  be  treated  as  only  Dala  yogas  and  not  as  Sankhya 
yogas.  (Vide  Stanza  10).  Again,  according  to  Stanza  J  2, 
if  the  Asraya  yogas  coincide  with  Akriti  yogas,  they 
cease  to  be  Asraya  yogas  ;  and  according  to  Stanza  10,  it 
the  Sankhya  yogas  coincide  with  Akriti  yogas,  they 
cease  to  be  Sankhya  yogas.  Now,  suppose,  Asraya  and 
Sankhya  yogas  to  coincide  with  each  other.  Are  they  to 
be  treated  as  the  former  or  as  the  latter  ?  The  Commen- 
tator says  that  if  the  coincidence  refers  to  the  Kedara, 
Sula,  and  Yuga  yogas,  the  yogas  are  to  be  treated  as 
Asraya  yogas  only  ;  but  if  it  refer  to  the  Gola  yoga,  it  is 
to  be  treated  as  such  and  not  as  an  Asraya  yoga — other- 
wise, there  will  be  no  room  for  Gola  yoga  at  all. 

We  shall  now  explain  how  the  Yavanas  obtain  1800 
Nabhasa  yogas.  As  stated  in  Stanza  3,  the  Yavanas  do 
not  treat  of  the  three  Asraya  yogas  and  the  two  Dala 
yogas.  They  treat  of  23  Akriti  yogas  and  127  Sankhya 
yogas  or  150  yogas  in  all  for  a  L,agna  ;  there  being  12 
Ivagnas,  the  number  of  Nabhasa  yogas  treated  of  by  the 
Yavanas  is  12  x  1 50  =  1 800. 

We  shall  explain  these  more  fully.  As  explained  in 
note  (a)  to  Stanza  4,  the  Gada  yoga  of  the  Author  is 
treated  of  as  4  distinct  yogas  by  the  Yavanas.  Adding 
these  to  the  remaining  19  Akriti  yogas,  we  get  28  Akriti 
yogas  as  treated  of  by  the  Yavanas. 

Again,  the  seven  Sankhya  yogas  of  the  Author  are 
split  into  127  Sankhya  yogas  for  a  L,agna  by  the  Yavanas 


Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  XIE. 

as  follows  :  The  first  Sankhya  yoga  treated  of  by  Varaha 
Mihira  is  known  as  Vallaki  yoga  according  to  which  the 
7  planets  might  occupy  any  seven  signs.  This  may  be 
in  many  ways ;  but  the  Yavanas  select  only  a  few  :  As  each 
of  the  seven  planets  might  occupy  the  Lagna  the  number 
of  yogas  under  this  division  is  7.  Again  the  2nd  Sankhya 
yoga  treated  of  by  the  Author  is  one  according  to  which 
the  7  planets  are  said  to  occupy  any  six  signs.  This  may  be 
in  many  ways  ;  but  the  Yavanas  select  the  following  few  : 
of  the  7  planets,  5  may  occupy  5  houses  and  2  more  may 
occupy  the  L/agna.  These  two  may  be  any  two  of  the 
seven  planets.  The  number  of  yogas  under  this  head  will 
be  the  number  of  combinations  of  7  things  taken  2  to- 
gether -fxf-  21. 

Again,  the  3rd  Sankhya  yoga  is  one  in  which  the 
seven  planets  occupy  5  houses.  This  may  be  in  many  ways  ; 
but  the  following  are  selected  : — 4-  planets  occupying  4- 
houses  and  3  more  occupying  the  Lagna.  These  three  may 
be  any  three  out  of  the  7  planets.  The  number  of  cases 
under  this  head  is  the  number  of  combinations  of  7  things 
taken  3  together  =  -£xfx£  =  35. 

The  next  Sankhya  yoga  of  Varaha  Mihira  is  simi- 
larly split  by  the  Yavanas  into  -f  x  | ;  x  $  x  £  =  35,  and  the 
next  into  { x  f  x  |-  x  |  x  |  =  21;  and  the  next  into  f  x  f  x  |  x  | 
x£xf =7  ;  and  the  last  into-f  xf  x£x  £  xfxf  x^  =  1.  So 
that,  the  seven  Sankhya  yogas  are  split  into  7+21+35+ 
35  +  21  +  7  + 1  =  12T.  These  added  to  23  Akriti  yogas  give 
us  150  yogas  for  a  Lagna  or  1800  yogas  for  the  12  Lagnas. 

To  find  the  number  of  combinations  of  n  things  taken 
r  at  a  time,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  Lilavati  of  Bhas- 
kara  Charyar  or  to  the  Chhandas  Sutra  of  Pingala  or  to 
Chapter  77,  Stanza  22  (notes)  of  the  English  Translation 
of  Brihat  Samhita  or  to  the  notes  to  Stanza  4  of  the  next 
Chapter  of  this  Book. 


CH.  xn.] 


Bnhat  Jdtakd. 


141 


N.B. — The  32  Nabhasa  Yogas  mentioned  in  this  Book  are 
given  in  the  following  Tabular  form. 


Number.  1 

Names. 

Description. 

Reference  1 
to  Stanzas.) 

The  3  Asraya  Togas. 

1 

Rajju            '    ... 

All  planets  occupy  the  movable  signs 

2 

2 

Musla 

Do.           do.       the  fixed  signs 

2 

3 

Nalsi 

Do.           do.       the  common  or  Ubhnya 

2 

signs. 

The  2  Dala  Togas. 

1 

Srik  or  Mala   ... 

Benefic  planets  occupy  the  Kendras 

2 

2 

Sarpa 

Malefic  planets  occupy  the  Kendras 

2 

The  20  Akriti  Togas. 

1 

Gada 

All  planets  occupy  any  two  adjacent  Kendras 

4 

2 

Sakata 

Do.          do.      the  1st  and  7th  houses- 

4 

3 

Vihaga 

Do,          do.      the  4th  and  10th  houses. 

4 

4 

Sringataka 

Do.          do.      the  1st,  ftth  &  9th  houses. 

4 

5 

Hala 

Do.          do.      the    other    triangular 

4 

house. 

6 

Vajra 

Benefic  planets   occupy   the   1st  and  7th 

5 

houses   and  Malefic  planets  occupy  the 

4th  and  10th  bouses. 

7 

Yava                 ... 

Malefic  planets   occupy   the  1st   and  7th 

5 

houses  and  Benefic  planets  occupy  the 

4th  and  10th  houses. 

8 

Kauiala  (Abja).. 

All  planets  occupy  the  four  Kendras 

5 

8 

Vapi 

All  planets  occupy  the    four  Panaphara  or 

5 

the  four  Apoklima  houses. 

10 

Yupa 

All  planets  occupy  the   four   signs   from 

7 

Lagna  or  Ascendant. 

11 

Ishu  or  Bana  ... 

All  planets  occupy   the  four   signs  from 

7 

the  4th  house. 

12 

SakLi 

Ail  planets  occupy  the  four  signs  from  the 

7 

7th  house. 

13 

Uanda 

All  planets  occupy   the   four   signs   from 

7 

the  10th  house. 

14 

Nau 

All  planets  occupy  the  seven  signs  from 

8 

Lagna. 

15 

Kuta 

Do.              do.          from  the  1th  house. 

8 

16 

Chatra 

Do.               do.          from  the  7th  house.         8 

17 

Ghapa 

Do.              do.          from  the  10th  house. 

8 

18 

Ardha  Chandra. 

Do.               do.          from  a    Panaphara  ' 

8 

or  Apoklima  house. 

19 

Samudra          ... 

Ail  planets  occupy  the  six  alternate  signs 

9 

from  the  2nd  house. 

20 

Chakra 

Do.             do.          from  the  Lagna  or 

9 

Ascendant. 

142 


Brihat  Jdlakd. 


[CH.  XIII. 


£ 

o   cs 

£ 

I 

Names. 

Description. 

§   C 

£    OS 

o>  -M 

* 

P^     Q 

The  1  Sankhya  Togas. 

i 

Vallaki 

All  planets  occupy  any  seven  signs 

10 

2 

Damini 

Do.          do.       any  six  signs 

10 

3 

Pasa 

Do.          do.       any  five  signs 

10 

4 

Eedara 

Do.          do.       any  four  signs 

10 

6 

Sula 

Do.          do.       any  three  signs 

10 

6 

Yttga* 

f>o.          do.       any  two  signs 

10 

7 

Gola 

Do.          do.       any  single  sign 

10 

CHAPTER  XIII. 
On  Chandra  (Lunar)  Yogas. 

1.  The  conduct,  wealth,  knowledge,  intelligence  and 
skill  of  a  person  will  be  poor,  moderate  or  excellent  accord- 
ing as  the  Moon  occupies  the  Kendra,  the   Panaphara   or 
the  Apoklima  houses  from  the  Sun  (a),  and  a  person  will 
be  rich  and  will  live  in  comfort  if  the  Moon  occupy  his  own 
Navarnsa   or  an    Atrnitra   Navamsa  (<5),  provided  she  is 
aspected   by  Jupiter   if  the  birth  occur  by  day,  and  by 
Venus  if  the  birth  occur  by  night. 

NOTES. 

(a)  At  the  time  of  birth.  In  other  words,  a  person 
will  have  very  little  of  these  qualities,  if  the  Moon  occupy 
either  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Sun  or  the  4th,  7th  or  10th 
sign  from  it.  He  will  have  these  qualities  in  a  moderate 
degree  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  2nd,  5th,  8th  or  the  llth  sign 
from  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Sun  ;  and  he  will  have  these 
qualities  in  a  large  measure,  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  3rd 
6th,  9th  or  the  12th  sign  from  the  sign  occupied  by  the 
Sun. 

(6)  An  Atimitra  Navamsa  is  a  Navamsa  of  an 
Atimitraor  a  very  Friendly  planet.  (  Vidft  Stanza  18,  Ch.  II.) 

2.  If  the  benefic  planets  (a)  occupy   the  6th,  7th  and 
the  8th  houses  from  the  Moon,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Adh* 


CH.  XIII.]  Brihal  JdtaM.  14-3 

yoga  (&).  A  person  born  in  this  yoga  will  become  a  gene- 
ral, a  minister  or  a  king  (c)  and  will  be  in  the  enjoyment 
of  great  pleasures  and  wealth  with  subdued  enemies  and 
long  life  and  free  from  diseases  and  fear. 

NOTES. 
(a)     These  are  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus. 

(&)  According  to  Srutakeerti,  the  yoga  is  of  7  sorts 
according  as  the  benefic  planets  occupy  one  or  more  of  the 
three  houses.  They  might  occupy  (1)  all  the  three 
houses;  (2)  the  6th  and  the  7th  houses;  (3)  the  6th 
and  the  8th  ;  (4)  the  7th  and  the  8th  (5)  the  6th  ;  (6) 
the  7th  ;  (7)  the  8th  house  from  the  Moon. 

(c)  According  as  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus  are 
weak,  of  moderate  power,  or  of  very  great  power,  according 
to  Badarayana. 

In  the  Astrological  work  known  as  Saravali,  the  Adhi 
yoga  is  classed  with  Raja  yoga  when  the  planets  Mercury, 
Jupiter  and  Venus  are  not  Astangata  planets,  nor  aspected 
by  malefic  planets.  Mandavya  is  of  the  same  opinion. 
According  to  Srutakeerti,  if  malefic  planets  occupy  the 
6th,  7th  and  the  8th  houses  from  the  Moon,  the  effects  will 
be  bad.  If  both  the  benefic  and  malefic  planets  occupy 
the  said  houses,  the  effects  will  be  both  good  and  bad. 

3.  Excepting  the  Sun,  if  the  other  planets  occupy 
the  2nd,  the  12th,  or  both  the  2nd  and  the  12th  houses 
from  the  Moon,  the  yogas  are  respectively  known  as 
Sunapha,  Anapha  or  Durudhura ;  otherwise  (a),  the  yoga 
is  known  as  Kemadruma  by  numerous  writers.  According 
to  some  (b),  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  Kendra  house  from 
the  ascendant  or  if  the  Moon  be  accompanied  by  a  planet, 
the  yoga  ceases  to  be  a  Kemadruma  yoga.  According  to 
others  (c),  the  three  yogas,  Sunapha,  Anapha  and  Puru- 
dhnra  are  referred  to  the  Kendra  houses  from  the  Moori 


144  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XIII. 

(d) ;  while  again,  some  others  (e)  refer  the  three  yogas 
to  the  houses  oil  both  sides  of  the  sign  the  Navamsa  of 
which  the  Moon  occupies  (f).  But  these  views  are  not 
considered  as  authoritative. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Otherwise :   i.e,,  in  the  absence  of  these  3  yogas. 
In  this  view  Satyacharyar  concurs. 
(&)     Garga  and  Parasara. 
(c)     Srutakeerti  and  others. 

(d}  That  is,  if  one  of  the  planets  excepting  the  Sun 
occupy  the  4th  house  from  the  Moon,  the  yoga  is  known 
as  Sunapha;  if  it  occupy  the  10th  house  from  the 
Moon,  the  yoga  is  known  as  Anapha,  and  if  they  occupy 
both  the  4th  and  the  10th  houses,  from  the  Moon,  it  is 
known  as  Durudhura  and  if  the  4th  and  10th  houses  from 
the  Moon  be  not  occupied  by  planets,  the  yoga  is  known 
as  Kemadruma. 

(e)    Jeevasarma. 

(/)  Suppose  the  Moon  to  occupy  the  Navamsa  of 
Sagittari  in  sign  Aries.  Now,  if  the  planets,  excepting 
the  Sun  and  the  Moon  occupy  the  2nd,  or  the  12th  or  both 
the  2nd  and  the  12th  houses  from  sign  Sagittari,  the  yogas 
are  respectively  known  as  Sunapha,  Anapha  and  Duru- 
dhura. But  if  these  two  houses  be  not  so  occupied,  the 
yoga  is  known  as  Kemadruma. 

4.  The  Sunapha  and  the  Anapha  yogas  are  each  of 
thirty-one  sorts,  ajid  the  Durudhura  yogas  are  of  one  hun- 
dred and  eighty  sorts,  as  will  be  found  to  be  the  case  by 
forming  series  as  described  in  the  rule  for  finding  the  num- 
ber of  combinations  of  a  given  number  of  things. 

NOTES. 

The  rule  for  finding  the  number  of  combinations  of 
a  given  number  of  things  is  only  hinted  at  in  the  Text, 


CH.  XIII.]  Brihat  Jatakd. 

but  not  fully  given.     It  is  quoted  in  Stanza  22  of  Chapter 
79  of  the  Brihat  Samhita.     The  rule  is  :— 

• 

"  Beginning  from  unity,  form  a  series  by  adding  to- 
gether the  first  figure  with  the  next  and  the  sum  with 
the  next  figure,  and  so  on,  omitting  only  the  last.  From 
the  series  thus  formed,  form  a  fresh  series,  similarly  begin- 
ning from  unity,  and  so  on.  The  last  terms  of  the  several 
series  will  give  the  number  of  combinations  required." 

Suppose,  there  are  7  substances.  The  figures  1,2,  3, 
4,  5,  6,  7,  will  form  the  1st  series.  Obtain  the  2nd  series 
as  follows:  1  +  2  =  3;  3  +  3  =  6;  6  +  4  =  10  ;  '10  +  5  =  15  ; 
15  +  6  =  21.  The  2nd  series,  therefore,  is  1,  3,  6,  10,  15,  21. 
Obtain  the  3rd  series  as  follows  :  1  +  3=4?;  4  +  6  =  10  ; 
10  + 10  =  20 ;  20  + 15  =  35.  The  3rd  series,  therefore,  is  1, 4, 
10,20,35.  Obtain  the  4th  series  as  follows:  1  +  4  =  5; 
5  + 1 0  - 1 5  ;  15  +  20  =  35.  The  4th  series,  therefore,  is  1,5, 
15,  35.  Obtain  the  5th  series  as  follows  :  1+5  =  6;  6  +  15 
-  21.  The  5th  series,  therefore,  is  1,  6,  21.  Obtain  the  6th 
series  as  follows  :  1  +  6  =  7.  The  6th  series  therefore  is 
1,7x7  The  seventh  series  is  1 .  The  last  terms  of  the  seven 
series  are,  7,  21,  35,  35,  21,  7, 1.  These  are  respectively 
the  number  of  combinations  of  seven  things  taken  1,  2,  3, 
4:,  5,  6  and  7  at  a  time. 

Bhaskara  Chariar  gives  a  simpler  process  in  his 
L,ilavati — a  work  on  Arithmetic.  He  says ; 

Form  fractions  with  the  numbers  beginning  from  the 
last  number  to  unity  for  numerators  and  with  the  num- 
bers beginning  from  unity  to  the  last  number  for  denomi- 
nators respectiveiy.  The  number  of  combinations  taken 
1,  2,  3, 4,  &c.,  at  a  time  will  respectively  be,  the  first  frac- 
tion, the  product  of  the  first  two  fractions,  of  the  first  three 
fractions  or  of  the  first  four  fractions,  &c.  Suppose,  for 
instance,  the  number  of  things  to  be  7.  Then  the  frac- 
tions are],  £,  f,  |,  f,  f,  }.  The  number  of  combinations 
of  7  things  taken  one  at  a  time  ={-  =  7  ;  taken  two  at  a 
time  =  }x  $  =  21;  taken*  three  at  a  time  =  f-x£xf  =  35  • 
19 


146  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XIII. 

taken  four  at  a  time  =  -fx£xfx|  =  35;  taken  five  at  a 
time=.fxf  xf  x^xf  =  21  ;  taken  six  at  a  time  =  -fx 
fxfx|x|x§  =  7;  and  taken  seven  at  a  time  =  -fxfx 
fx|xfxfx*  =  l. 

Now,  in  the  Sunapha  or  Anapha  yogas,  the  2nd  or 
the  12th  house  from  the  Moon  may  be  occupied  by  the  five 
planets  from  Mars  either  singly  or  two  at  a  time  or 
three  or  four  or  all  at  a  time.  The  number  required  is 
the  sum  of  the  number  of  combinations  of  five  things 
taken  1,  2,  3,  4  and  5  together  at  a  time.  This  is  to  be  de- 
duced from  the  following  fractions  f,  f,  |,  f,  i.  The 
number  will  be  found  to  be  5  +  10  +  10  +  5  +  1=31. 

Take  the  case  in  which  the  2nd  house  from  the  Moon 
is  occupied  by  a  single  planet ;  while  it  is  so  occupied,  the 
remaining  four  planets  may  occupy  the  12th  house  from 
the  Moon  1,  2,  3  or  4  at  a  time.    The  number  of  these 
will  be  the  sum   of  the  number  of  combinations  of  four 
things    taken    1,   2,   3    and   4  together.     This   will   be 
found  to  be  4  +  6  +  4  +  1  =  15.    So  that,  for  one  of  the  five 
Sunapha  yogas,  we  get  15  Durudhura   yogas.    The  five 
Sunapha  yogas  of  one  planet  will  therefore  give  us  5  x  15 
=  75  Durudhura  yogas.     Take   one   of  the   10  Sunapha 
yogas  of  two  planets  from  Mars  to   Saturn  ;  the    remain- 
ing 3  planets  may  occupy  the  12th  house  from  the  Moon^ 
1,  2  and  3  at  a   time.     The   number  required  is  the  sum 
of  the  number  of  combinations  of  three  things  taken  1,  2 
and  3  at  a  time.    This  will  be   found  to  be  3  +  3  +  1=7. 
Combining  these  with  the  10  Sunapha   yogas  of  2  planets 
we  shall  get  10x7  =  70  Durudhura  yogas.     Similarly,  the 
10   Sunapha  yogas   of  three   planets  will   give  10x3- 
30   Durudhura  yogas  ;  and  the  five   Sunapha   yogas   of 
4  planets  will  give  us  5  x  1  =  5  Durudhura  yogas.     So  that, 
the  number  of  possible  Durudhura  yogas  -75  +  70  +  30  + 
5-180. 

5.    A  person  born  in  a  Sunapha  yoga  will  be  possess- 
ed of  self-acquired  property,  will  be  a  king  or  will  resent 


CH.  XIIL]  Brihai  Jdtakd.  147 

ble  a  king,  and  will  be  a  man  of  intelligence,  wealth  and 
renown. 

A  person  born  in  an  Anapha  yoga  will  be  a  man  of 
influence  and  authority,  will  be  free  from  diseases,  will 
have  a  control  over  his  passions,  will  be  of  great  renown, 
will  be  in  the  enjoyment  of  all  manner  of  pleasures,  will 
wear  neat  dress  and  will  be  free  from  grief. 

6.  A  person  born  in  a  Durudhura  yoga  will  be  in 
the  enjoyment  of  all  manner  of  pleasures,  will  be  possess- 
ed of  wealth  and  carriage,   will  be  liberal   in  his  gift  and 
will  have  good  servants. 

A  person  born  in  a  Kemadrunia  yoga,  though  he  may 
belong  to  a  king's  family,  will  be  dirty,  afflicted  with  grief, 
will  do  deeds  not  suited  to  his  rank  in  life,  will  be  poor, 
will  serve  under  others  and  will  be  wicked. 

7.  If  the  yoga  planet   be  Mars,   the  person  will  be 
active,    fond  of   fight,     wealthy,    and    will    engage    in 
deeds  without  thought.     If  the  yoga   planet  be  Mercury, 
the  person  will  be  skilled  in  work,  will  be  of  good  speech 
and  learned  in  the  arts  (a).  If  the  yoga  planet  be  Jupite^ 
the  person  will  be  wealthy  and  virtuous,  will  live  for  ever 
in  comfort  and  will  be  respected  by  the  king.    If  the  yoga 
planet  be   Venus,  the  person  will  be  afflicted  with  sexual 
passion,  will  be  very  wealthy  and  in  the  enjoyment  of  all 
manner  of  pleasures. 

NOTES. 
(a)     In  music,  dance,  painting,  &c. 

8.  If  the   yoga   planet  be   Saturn,    the  person   will 
enjoy  wealth,  property  and  servants  of  others,  will  engage 
in   various   deeds  and  will  be  the  chief  of  parties  of  men 
(a).     If  the  birth  occur  by  day,  the  Moon   will   bring    on 
misery   if    she   occupy     the    visible    hemisphere,    will 
bring  on  prosperity  if  she  occupy  the  invisible  hemisphere  ; 
if  the  birth  occur  by  night,  the  results  will  be  the  reverse 
of  these  (6). 


148  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  X11I. 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  two  or  more  planets  be  yoga  planets,  the  effects 
described  for  them  all  will  come  to  pass. 

(&)  That  is,  if  the  birtli  occur  by  night,  the  Moon 
will  bring  on  misery,  if  she  occupy  the  invisible  hemi- 
sphere and  prosperity  if  she  occupy  the  visible  hemisphere. 

9.  If  all  the  benefic  planets  (a)  occupy  the  Upachaya 
places  (b)  from  the  Ascendant  at  the  time  of  birth,  a  person 
will  be  very  rich  and  if  they  occupy  the  Upachaya  places 
from  the  Moon,  lie  will  be  moderately  rich.  If  two  of  the 
planets  occupy  the  Upachaya  places,  a  person  will  be 
moderately  wealthy  and  if  one  of  them  occupy  such  places, 
he  will  possess  small  wealth  (c\  Even  if  the  person  be 
born  in  other  malefic  Yogas  (aT),  the  present  yoga  will  take 
effect  to  their  exclusion  (e). 

NOTES, 

(a)    Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus. 

(£)  The  3rd,  6th,  10th  and  llth  houses  from  the 
Ascendant. 

(c)  So  that,  if  benefic  planets  occupy  the  Upachaya 
places  both  from  the  Ascendant  and  from  the   Moon,   a 
person   will  be    exceedingly  rich  ;  and  if  the  Upachaya 
places  be  not  so  occupied  by  any  of  the  benefic   planets, 
the  person  will  be  poor. 

(d)  Such  as  Kemadruma  yoga. 

(<?)     That  is,  suppose  a  person  to  be  born  in  a  Kema- 
druma yoga  and  suppose  the  benefic  planets  to  occupy  the 
Upachaya  places  from  the  Ascendant  or  the  Moon  or  both, 
the  person  will  become  rich  and  not  poor. 


CH.  XIV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  149 

CHAPTER  XIV. 
On  Double  Planetary  Yogas. 

1.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon 
occupy  together  a  sign  of  the  Zodiac,  the  person  born  will 
be  a  maker  of  fire  engines  (a)  and  will  work  in  stones  ;  if  the 
Sun  and  Mars  occupy  a  sign  together,  the  person  will  be 
addicted  to  sinful  deeds  ;  if  the  Sun  and  Mercury   occupy 
a  sign  together,  the  person  will  be  skilled  in  work,  will  be 
intelligent  and  famous,  and  will  live  in  comfort ;  if  the  Sun 
and  Jupiter  occupy  a  sign  together,  the   person   will   be 
cruel  and  will  work  for  other  men;  if  the  Sun  and  Venus 
occupy  a   sign  together,   the  person  will  gain  money  by 
engaging  in  public  sports  and  by  the  use  of  weapons  ;  and 
if  the  Sun  and  Saturn  occupy  a  sign  together,  the  person 
will  be  skilled  in  metal  work  and  in  earthen-ware. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Engines  of  destruction  according  to  the  Com- 
mentator. 

2.  If  the  double  planets,  occupying  together  a  sign 
of  the  Zodiac,  at  the  time  of  birth,  be  the  Moon  and  Mars, 
the  person  will  earn  money  by  the  sale  of  works  of  art,  of 
women,  of  liquor,  and  of  pots  and  will  give  trouble  to  his 
mother ;  if  they  be  the  Moon  and  Mercury,  the  person  will 
be  of  sweet  speech,  skilled  in  literary   interpretation  and 
will  become  popular  and  famous ;  if  they  be  the  Moon  and 
Jupiter,  the  person  will  defeat  his  enemies,  will  be  an  im- 
portant person  in  his  family,  will   not  be   of  firm   views 
and  will  be  greatly  rich  ;  if  they  be  the  Moon  and  Venus, 
the  person  will  be  skilled  in  cloth   work  (a) ;  if  they  be 
the  Moon  and  Saturn,  the   person  will   be  the   son  of  a 
re-married  woman  (£). 

NOTES. 

(a)    In     weaving,    stitching,    dyeing,  buying    and 
selling  cloths. 


150  Brihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XIV. 

(b)  The  Sanskrit  term  for  the  woman  is  Pimarbhu. 
She  is  said  to  be  a  woman,  who,  out  of  sexual  passion, 
quits  her  husband  and  marries  a  person  of  her  own  caste 
whether  or  not  she  may  have  joined  in  sexual  union. 

3.  If  the   double  planets  occupying  together  a  sign 
of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth  be  Mars   and  Mercury, 
the  person  will  deal  in  roots  and  the  like  (ai),  in  oil,  in  works 
of  art  and  will  be  skilled  in  duels  ;  if  they   be    Mars   and 
Jupiter,    the   person   will    be    the   chief  of  a    town  or 
a  king,  or    a  wealthy   Brahmin   (b)  ;  if  they  be    Mars 
and  Venus,  the  person  will  protect  cows,  will   engage   in 
duels,  will  be   skilled  in   work,  will  indulge  in   sexual 
union  with  the  wives  of  other  men  and  will  be  a  gambler; 
if  they  be  Mars  and  Saturn,   the  person   will  be   afflicted 
with  grief,  will  be  a  liar,  and  will  be  despised  by  others. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Fruits,  flowers,  bark,  juice,  &c. 

(b)  Or  learned   according  to  another  reading. 

4.  If  the  double  planets  occupying  together  a  sign  of 
the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth   be   Mercury  and  Jupiter, 
the  person  will  be  skilled  in  duels,  will   be  fond  of  music 
and  learned  in  dance  ;  if  they  be  Mercury  and  Venus,  the 
person  will  be  one  of  good    speech,   and  will   be   a  ruler 
over  countries  and  over  men  ;  if  they   be   Mercury  and 
Saturn,  the  person  will  be  skilled   in    deceiving  others, 
and  will  reject   the    advice   of  his    preceptor;    if  they  be 
Jupiter  and  Venus,  the   person  will   be   learned   in   some 
respectable  department  of  knowledge,  will  possess  wealth, 
a  wife  and  various  virtues  ;  if  they  be  Jupiter  and  Saturn, 
the  person  will  be  a  barber,  a  potman  or  a  cook. 

5.  If  the  double  planets  occupying   together  a  sign 
of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth  be   Venus  and  Saturn, 
the  person  will  be  short-sighted,  will  have  an  increase  of 


CH.  XIV.]  Brihat  Mtakd.  151 

wealth  through  the  friendship  of  a  young  woman,  and 
will  be  skilled  in  writing  and  painting.  In  the  case  of 
other  planetary  yogas  (a),  the  effects  described  shall  be 
determined  and  applied. 

NOTES. 

(a)  That  is,  if  three  or  more  planets  occupy  together 
a  sign  of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  yoga  shall 
first  be  split  into  a  number  of  double  planetary  yogas  and 
the  effects  described  in  this  Chapter  shall  then  be  applied. 
For  example  :  suppose,  the  four  planets,  the  Sun,  the 
Moon,  Mars  and  Mercury  to  occupy  together  a  single  sign. 
This  yoga  can  be  split  into  six  double  planetary  yogas 
as  follows :  (1),  the  Sun  and  the  Moon,  (2),  the  Sun 
and  Mars,  (3),  the  Sun  and  Mercury,  (4),  the  Moon  and 
Mars,  (5),  the  Moon  and  Mercury,  (6),  Mars  and  Mercury. 
The  effects  described  for  each  shall  be  determined  and 
applied. 

Notes. — The  following  yogas  referring  to  the  several 
groups  of  2,  3,  4,  5  and  6  planets  occupying  together  a 
single  sign  of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth  are  taken 
with  their  effects  from  a  work  known  as  Jataka  Parijata. 

L— OF   TWO  PLANETS. 
If  the  yoga  planets  occupying  a  single  sign  be 

(1)  The  Sun  and  the   Moon,    the  person    will   be 
subject  to    the    influence   of  women,    will  be   skilled  in 
work  and  will  be  of  bright  appearance. 

(2)  The  Sun   and   Mars, — will   be   a  strong  man,  a 
liar  and  sinner. 

(3)  The  Sun  and  Mercury, — will  be  learned,  beauti- 
ful, strong  and  of  fixed  views. 

(4)  The  Sun  and  Jupiter,— will  be  earnest   in  work, 
will  be  a  favourite  with  trie  king  and  will  be  rich, 


152  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  XIV, 

(5)  The    Sun   and     Venus,— will    acquire    wealth 
through  women,  will  have  kinsmen  and  enemies  and  will 
be  intelligent. 

(6)  The  Sun  and  Saturn,— will  be  of  dull  under- 
standing and  subject  to  his  enemies. 

(7)  The  Moon  and  Mars, — will  be  bold  and  born  of  a 
high  family  ;  will  be  virtuous,   wealthy   and  possessed  of 
good  qualities. 

(8)  The    Moon    and   Mercury, — will   be  charitable, 
learned  in  sciences,  and  possessed  of  excellent  qualities. 

(9)  The  Moon  and  Jupiter, — will  protect  good  and 
pious  men  and  will  be  very  intelligent. 

(10)  The  Moon  and  Venus, — will  be  a. sinner  and   a 
merchant. 

(11)  The  Moon  and  Saturn, —  will  possess  a  bad  wife, 
will  ill-treat  his  father  and  will  be  poor. 

(12)  Mars  and  Mercury, — will  be  of  good  speech  and 
learned  in  medicine,  arts  and  sciences. 

(13)  Mars  and  Jupiter, — will  be  of  strong  sexual  pas- 
sion, will  possess  excellent  qualities   and  will  be  a  mathe- 
matician. 

(14)  Mars  and  Venus, — will  be  fond  of  fight  and   of 
the  world,  and  will  be  deceitful. 

(15)  Mars   and   Saturn, — will   be  litigious,   fond    of 
music  and  of  a  dull  understanding. 

(16)  Mercury  and  Jupiter, — will  be  of    good  speech, 
beautiful  and  very  rich. 

(17)  Mercury  and  Venus, — will  be  a  ruler  over  coun- 
tries and  over  men. 

(IB)  Mercury  and  Saturn, — will  be  deceitful,  and  will 
not  be  open  to  the  advice  of  his  preceptor. 

(19)  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will  be  of  bright  appear- 
ance, a  favourite  with  the  king,  will  be  very  intelligent 
and  skilled  in  work, 


CH.  XIV.]  Brihat  JdtaM.  153 

(20)  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — will  be  a  sculptor  and  will 
protect  cows. 

(21)  Venus  and   Saturn, — will  be  skilled  in  duels. 


XL—OF  THREE  PLANETS. 

Again,  if  the  Yoga  Planets  occupying  a  single  sign  be 

(1)  The  Sun,  the  Moon  and  Mars,  the  person   will 
destroy  the  family  of  his  enemy,  will  be  rich  and  just. 

(2)  The  Sun,  the  Moon  and  Mercury,— will  resemble 
a  king  and  will  be  learned  and  famous. 

(3)  The  Sun,  the  Moon  and  Jupiter,— will  be  possess- 
ed of  many  good  qualities  and  will  be  learned. 

(4)  The   Sun,  the  Moon  and  Venus, — will  commit 
adultery,  will  be  cruel,  will   be   subject  to  fear   from  his 
enemy  and  will  be  rich. 

(5)  The  Sun,  the  Moon  and  Saturn, — will  be  a  man 
of  wrong  views,   will    be   deceitful   and   will   travel   to 
foreign  lands. 

(6)  The  Suu,  Mars  and   Mercury, — will  be  without 
enjoyment  of  any   kind   and  will   have   sons,  wealth  and 
wife. 

(7)  The   Sun,   Mars   and  Jupiter, — will  be  fond  of 
sexual  enjoyment,  will  be  considerate,  will  be  a  commander 
of  armies  or  a  magistrate. 

(8)  The  Suu,  Mars   and  Venus, — will     be  afflicted 
with  diseases  of  the  eye,  will  live   in  comfort  and  be  born 
in  a  good  family. 

(9)  The  Sun,  Mars  and  Saturn, — will    be   separated 
from  his  kinsmen,  will  be  dumb,  will  suffer  from  diseases 
and  will  be  rich. 

(10)  The   Sun,  Mercury   and   Jupiter, — will   be    of 
sound  views,  will  be  learned,  wealthy  and  famous, 

20 


154  Brihat  Mtakd.  [Cn.  XIV. 

(11)  The  Sun,  Mercury  and  Venus, — will  be  of  soft 
body,  will   be  learned,   famous   and  will  live   in   com- 
fort. 

(12)  The  Sun,  Mercury  and  Saturn, — will  be  with- 
out  kinsmen  and  poor — will  hate  mankind  and  will  be  of 
vicious  habits. 

(13)  The  Sun,  Jupiter  and    Venus, — will  possess  a 
good  wife  and  children,  will  be  very  intelligent,  will  suffer 
from  diseases  of  the  eye  and  will  be  rich. 

(14)  The  Sun,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — will  be  fearless, 
will  be  liked  by  the  king  and  will  be  of  quiet  and  excellent 
disposition. 

(15)  The  Sun,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will  be   of  bad 
reputation  and  will  be  haughty  and  insolent. 

(16)  The  Moon,  Mars  and  Mercury, — will  be  glut- 
tonous, will  be  addicted  to  wicked  deeds  and   will  abuse 
other  people. 

(17)  The  Moon,  Mars  and  Jupiter, — will  be  of  angry 
speech,  will  be  of  strong  sexual   passion   and    will   be 
beautiful. 

(18)  The  Moon,  Mars   and  Venus, — will   be   of  bad 
conduct,  will  have  no  sons  and  will  be  fond  of  travels. 

(19)  The  Moon,  Mars  and  Saturn, — will  be  virtuous 
and  wealthy,  will  have  a  bad  wife  and  will   be  litigious. 

(20)  The     Moon,   Mercury   and  Jupiter, — will    be 
charitable  and  learned  in  sciences,  will  protect  good   and 
pious  men  and  will  be  of  good  speech. 

(21)  The    Moon,    Mercury   and     Venus, — will   be 
learned,  will   be  addicted   to  low  deeds   and   will   have 
numerous  servants. 

(22)  The     Moon,    Mercury  and    Saturn, — will    be 
liberal  in  gift,  will  be  respected  by  the  king  and  will  be 
possessed  of  good  qualities. 

The    Moon,    Jupiter     and     Venus, — will   be 


CH.  XIV.]  terihat  Jdtakd.  155 

intelligent,  will  have  good  sons  and  will  be  skilled  in 
works  of  art. 

(24)  The  Moon,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — will  be  learned 
in  sciences,  will  be  fond  of  old  women  and  will  be  as 
happy  as  a  king. 

•  (25)  The  Moon,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will  be 
learned  in  the  Vedas,  will  be  tlie  king's  chaplain  and  will 
be  liked  by  all  people. 

(26)  Mars,   Mercury  and  Jupiter, — will   be  fond   of 
music,  of  Vedas,  of  literature  and  of  drama. 

(27)  Mars,  Mercury  and  Venus, — will  be   of    defec- 
tive organs,  will  be  born  of  a  bad  family  and   will   be   of 
settled  views. 

(28)  Mars,  Mercury  and  Saturn, — will   serve   under 
other  men,  will  suffer  from  diseases  of  the  eye  and  will  be 
fond  of  travels. 

(29)  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will  be  liked  by  the 
king,  will  have  good  sons,  and  will  live  in  comfort. 

(30)  Mars,  Jupiter    and  Saturn, — will   be   of  thin 
body,  without  comfort,  respectable   and   given   up   to   a 
vicious  course  of  life. 

(31)  Mars,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will  have  bad   sons 
and  will  ever  be  of  pure  mind. 

(32)  Mercury,    Jupiter  and    Venus, — will   conquer 
over  his  enemies  and  will  be  of  wide-spread  fame. 

(33)  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — will  live  in  great 
comfort,  will  be  wealthy  and  will  be  attached  to  his  wife. 

(34)  Mercury,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will  tell  lies. 

(35)  Jupiter,    Venus  and  Saturn, — will   be  of  clear 
understanding  and  will  be  happy  and  famous. 


156  Srihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XIV. 

III.— OF  FOUR  PLANETS. 
Again,  if  the  yoga  planets  occupying  together 'a  sign 
of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth  be 

(1)  The   vSun,  the    Moon,  Mars  and  Mercury,   the 
person  will  be  deceitful,  skilled  in  the  art  of  writing  and 
will  suffer  from  diseases. 

(2)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars  and  Jupiter,— will  be 
rich,  famous,  intelligent  and  liked  by  the  king  and  will  be 
free  from  diseases  and  from  grief. 

(3)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars  and  Venus, — will  have 
a  wife  and   children,   will  be   learned,  a  moderate  eater, 
happy,  skilled  in  work  and  merciful. 

(4)  The  Sun,   the   Moon,   Mars   and   Saturn, — will 
suffer  from  diseases  of  the  eye,   will  be  fond    of  travels 
and  of  prostitutes  and  will  be  poor. 

(5)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mercury  and  Jupiter, — will 
have  eight  sons,  will  be  rich  and  possessed  of  good  quali- 
ties; will  be  famous,  powerful  aud  liberal  in  gift. 

(6)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mercury  and  Venus, — will 
be  of  defective  organs  aud  of  good  speech. 

(7)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mercury  and  Saturn, — will 
be  poor  and  ungrateful. 

(8)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will  be 
possessed  of  many  good   qualities,   -will  commit  adultery 
with  other  women,  will  be  intelligent  and  will  suffer  from 
diseases  of  the  eye, 

(9)  The   Sun,  the  Moon,  Jupiter  and   Saturn, — will 
be  fond  of  travels,  will  be  rich,  intelligent  and  attached  to 
prostitutes. 

(10)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,   Venus  and  Saturn,— will 
be  of  defective  limbs,  will  be  timid,  will  follow  girls  and 
will  be  fond  of  wealth  and  meals. 

(11)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury  and  Jupiter, — will  be 
strong,  will  get  into  difficulties,  will  be  married  and  rich, 


CH.  XIV.]  Srihat  Jdtakd.  157 

will  suffer  from  diseases  of  the  eye  and  will  be  fond  of 
travels. 

(12)  The  Sun,  Mars,   Mercury  and  Venus, — will  be 
fond  of  the  wives  of  other  men,  will  be  of  fearful  eyes  and 
appearance, will  be  addicted  to  thieving  and  will  be  weak. 

(13)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury  and  Saturn, — will  be 
a  commander  of  armies   or  a   minister,  will  be  addicted 
to  low  deeds  and  will  be   in  the  enjoyment  of  numerous 
pleasures. 

(14)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will  be  as 
famous  as  the  king,  will  be  respected  everywhere  and  will 
be  rich. 

(15)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Saturn,— will  be 
blind,  will  be  a  wanderer  and  will  have  friends  and  kins- 
men. 

(16)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Venus  and  Saturn,— will  suffer 
disgrace,  will  be  slothful  and  possessed  of  good  qualities. 

(17)  The  Sun,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will  be 
very  rich  and  famous. 

(18)  The  Sun,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — will 
bring  about  quarrels,    will  be  respectable  and  of  vicious 
habits. 

(19)  The  Sun,   Mercury,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will 
be  of  good  speech,  will  be  truthful,  will  be  a  man  of  prin- 
ciple and  will  be  of  good  conduct. 

(20)  The  Sun,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will  be 
learned  in  arts,  will  be  the  chief  of  low  people  and  will  be 
obstinate. 

(21)  The   Moon,  Mars,  Mercury  and  Jupiter, — will 
be  liked  by  the   king,  will   be  a  minister  or  an  eminent 
poet. 

(22)  The   Moon,  Mars,   Mercury  and  Venus,— will 
have  a  good  wife  and  sons,    will  be   intelligent,   will  be 
ugly  and  deformed  and  will  live  in  comfort. 


158  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Ctf.  XtV. 

(23)  The  Moon,    Mars,  Mercury  and  Saturn,— will 
have  double  parents,   will   be  bold  and  will  have  several 
wives  and  children. 

(24)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will  do 
sinful  deeds,  will  indulge   in   sleep  and  will  be  fond  of 
money. 

(25)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Saturn — will  be 
of  firm  views,  bold,  happy  and  learned. 

(26)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Venus  and  Saturn, — will  be 
of  bad  conduct,  will  have  no  sons,  will  be   learned  in  the 
Vedas  or  will  be  the  king's  priest. 

(27)  The  Moon,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus, — will 
be  very  rich,  attached  to  his  kinsmen  and  virtuous. 

(28)  The  Moon,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — will 
be  liberal  in  gifts,  will  be  respected  by  the  king  and  will 
live  in  great  comfort,  will  be  wealthy  and  attached  to  his 
wife. 

(29)  The  Moon,  Mercury,  Venus   and  Saturn, — will 
be  hated  by  the  people   and  will   be   fond  of  the  wives  of 
other  men. 

(30)  The  Moon,  Jupiter,   Venus  and  Saturn, — will 
be  without  sons,  will  not  be  earnest  in   work  and  will  be 
without  mercy. 

(31)  Mars,    Mercury,  Jupiter   and  Venus, — will  be 
rich  and  despised  by  the  people. 

(32)  Mars,     Mercury,     Jupiter   and    Saturn,— will 
suffer  from  diseases  and  will  be  poor. 

(33)  Mars,  Mercury,  Venus  and  Saturn,— will  be  of 
defective  limbs,  will  serve  under  other    men,  will  tell  lies 
and  will  have  bad  sons. 

(34)  Mars,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn,— will  be  liked 
by  the  king,  will  be  of  thin  body,  will  have   bad  sons  and 
will  be  of  clear  understanding. 


CH.  XIV.]  Brthat  Jdtakd.  159 

35)     Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn,— will  be 
very  rich,  learned,  and  of  good  conduct, 


IV.— OF  FIVE  PLANETS. 

Again,  if  the  yoga  planets  occupying  together  a  sign 
of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth  be 

(1)  The     Sun,     the     Moon,    Mars,    Mercury    and 
Jupiter,  the  person  will  engage   in  fight,  will  be  deceitful 
and  skilled  in  work. 

(2)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars,  Mercury  and  Venus, 
— will  be  devoid  of  charity,  will  be  earnest  in  work,  will  be 
without  kinsmen  and  will  work  for  other  men. 

(3)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars,  Mercury  and  Saturn, 
— will  be  of  short  life,  will  be  fond  of  earning  money  and 
without  wife  and  children. 

(4)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Venus,— 
will  delight  in  annoying  other  men,  will  be  rejected   by 
his  parents  and  kinsmen  and  will  be  of  defective  eyes. 

(5)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, — 
will  be  avaricious  and  will  be  afflicted  with  grief  owing  to 
separation  from  his  wife. 

(6)  The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars,  Venus  and  Saturn, — 
will  be  wealthy,  powerful,  able  and  dirty  and   will  covet 
the  wives  of  other  men. 

(7)  The     Sun,    the  Moon,     Mercury,  Jupiter  and 
Venus, — will   be  a   minister,  will  be    rich,    successful, 
famous  and  powerful  and  will  also  be  a  magistrate. 

(8)  The    Sun,    the    Moon,   Mercury,   Jupiter   and 
Saturn, — will  depend  on  other  men  for  meals,  will  be  timid, 
will  commit  sins  and  will  engage  in  fearful  deeds. 

(9)  The     Sun,   the    Moon,     Mercury,   Venus    and 
Saturn,— will  be  poor,  tall,  without  sons  and  sickly. 


Brihat  Jdtakd,  [Cn,  XIV. 

(10)  The  Sun,    the  Moon,    Jupiter,     Venus   and 
Saturn,— will  be  without  a  wife,  of  good  speech,  will  have 
enemies,  will  be  fearless  and  learned  in  jugglery. 

(11)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus,— 
will  be  without  grief,  a  good  friend  and  master  of  horses 
and  covet  the  wives  of  other  men. 

(12)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Saturn,-— 
will  beg  his  meals,   will  be  dirty   and  dressed  in  ragged 
clothes. 

(13)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Mercury,  Venus  and  Saturn, — 
will  be  an  important  person  and  will  be  afflicted  with  grief, 
fear,  disease  and  hunger. 

(14)  The  Sun,  Mars,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn, — 
will  be  respected  everywhere,  will  be   rich,  will  be  blind 
and  will  have  friends  and  kinsmen. 

(15)  The  Sun,  Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn, 
—will  possess  a  knowledge  of  Atma,  will  do  deeds  accept- 
able to  Devas  and  to  his   preceptors  and  will  be    learned 
in  sciences. 

(16)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus, 
— will  be  of  a  mild  disposition,  happy,  rich,  powerful  and 
learned. 

(17)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Saturn, 
— will  be  skilled  in  Engineering,  will  be   of  strong  phy- 
sique and  will  be  famous  for  his  skill  in  work. 

(18)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Mercury,  Venus  and  Saturn, 
—will  have  a  good  wife  and  sons,  will  be   intelligent  and 
will  live  in  comfort. 

(19)  The  Moon,  Mars,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn,— 
will  work  for  other  men,  will  be  poor,  of  dirty  appearance, 
ignorant  and  addicted  to  thieving. 

(20)  The  Moon,  Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn, 
— will   be  respected  in   all    lands,   will   be   of   defective 
limbs,  will  be  a  minister  and  will  resemble  a  king. 


CH.XIV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  161 

(21)  Mars,  Mercury,  Jupiter,  Venus  and  Saturn, — 
will  be  respected  everywhere,  will  be  skilled  in  work, 
will  suffer  from  torture,  imprisonment  and  disease. 


V.— OF  SIX  PLANETS. 

Lastly,  if  the  yoga  planets  occupying  a  single  sign  of 
the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth  be  the  several  planets 
except 

(1)  Saturn,  the  person   will  be  a  writer  of  scientific 
works,  will  dwell   in   woods  and   mountains  and  will  be 
possessed  of  a  wife,  sons  and  wealth. 

(2)  Venus, — will  be  addicted  to  thieving,  will  covet 
other  women,  will  be    despised  by  his  kinsmen,    will  be 
without   sons,  will  be  a  fool  and  will  travel   to  foreign 
lands. 

(3)  Jupiter, — will  be  a  man  of  low  birth,  will'  work 
for  other  men,  will  suffer  from   consumption  and  will  be 
despised  by  the  people. 

(4)  Mercury, — will  be  a   minister,  will  be  possessed 
of  a  wife,  sons,  wealth  and  comfort  and  will  have  a  con- 
trol over  his  passions. 

(5)  Mars, — will  suffer  from  headache,  will  be  mad, 
will  live  in  places  unfrequented  by  man  and  will  travel  to 
foreign  lands. 

(6)  The  Moon, — will  be  an  energetic  traveller  and 
intelligent. 

(7)  The   Sun, — will   visit  holy   places  and  will   be 
rich. 


21 


162  Brihnt  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XV. 

CHAPTER  XV. 
On  Ascetic  Yogas. 

1.  A  person  born  when  four  or  more  (a)  powerful  (d) 
planets  occupy  a  single  sign  of  the  Zodiac  becomes  an 
ascetic  of  the  Sakya,  Ajivika,  Bhikshuka,  Vriddhasravaka, 
Chakra,  Nirgrandha  or  Vanyasana  class  according  as  the 
most  powerful  planet  of  the  group  is  Mars,  Mercury, 
Jupiter,  the  Moon,  Venus,  Saturn  or  the  Sun.  (c}  If  such 
powerful  planet  be  one  that  has  suffered  defeat  in  con- 
junction at  the  time  of  birth,  the  ascetic  will,  after  a  time, 
revert  to  his  previous  condition  of  life. 

NOTES. 

(a)    That  is  5,  6  or  7  planets. 

(£)  If  no  planet  be  powerful,  there  will  be  no  Pravra- 
jya  (ascetic  yoga). 

(c)  The  ascetic  life  of  the  most  powerful  planet  will 
be  embraced  by  the  person  first,  then  that  of  the  planet 
next  in  power  and  so  on.  The  first  change  of  life  will 
occur  in  the  Dasa  and  Antardasa  period  of  the  most 
powerful  planet;  the  succeeding  changes  will  occur  in  the 
Antardasa  periods  of  the  respective  planets,  If  the  yoga 
planet  be  a  single  powerful  planet  which  does  not  suffer 
defeat  in  conjunction,  the  ascetic  life  assumed  will 
continue  till  death.  We  shall  now  explain  the  terms 
referring  to  the  several  classes  of  ascetics. 

(1 )  Sakya : — A  Buddhist  ascetic  dressed  in  red  robes. 

(2)  Ajivika  : — A  Jaina   ascetic  ;    the  term  includes 
Vaishnava  ascetics  as  well. 

(3)  Bhikshuka  : — A  Brahman  ascetic  who  abandons 
his  house  and  family  and  subsists  entirely  on  alms. 

(4)  Vriddhasravaka : — known  as  Kapalika,  a  follower 
pf  Siva. 


CH.  XV.  J  Brthat  Jdtakd. 

(5)  Chakra : — known   as  Chakradhara,     an  ascetic 
who  wears  a  discus. 

(6)  Nirgrandha  : — a  iiaked  ascetic. 

(7)  Vanyasana  : — an  ascetic   who  subsists  ou   the 
roots  aud  fruits   of  the  forest   and  is  engaged  in    Divine 
meditation. 

2.  If  the  most   powerful  yoga   planet  be  an   Astan- 
gata  planet,  (a)  a  person  will  not  become  a  Deekshita  (3) 
but  will  be  attached  to  persons  who  are  such.     Again,  if 
the  powerful  planet   which  suffers  defeat  in  conjunction 
be  aspected  by  other  planets,   a  person  will  not  become  a 
Deekshita  (c),  but  will  possess  a  strong  desire  to  become 
one. 

NOTES. 

(a)  This  has  already  been  explained  (vide  Notes  to 
Stanza  2,  Ch.  7.) 

(V)     That  is,  one  of  the  holy  order  of  men. 

(c)  If  not  aspected,  he  will  become  one,  and  after  a 
time,  revert  to  his  former  condition  of  life  as  stated  in  the 
last  Stanza. 

X.B. — Stanzas  1  and  2  should  be  read  together. 

3.  If  the  lord  of  the  sign  occupied  by  the   Moon  as- 
pects Saturn  and  be  not  aspected  by  any  other  planet,  (a) 
or  if  Saturn  (6)  aspect  the   lord  of  the  sign   occupied  by 
the  Moon  when  such  lord  is  not  powerful  (c)  a  person  will 
become  au  ascetic.     Again,  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  Drek- 
kana  of  Saturn  aud    the  Navamsa  of  Saturn  or  Mars  and 
be   aspected    by   Saturn  (d\   a  person    will    become    an 
ascetic  (.c). 

NOTES- 

(a)  The  Pravrajya  will  be  that  of  such  lord  or  Saturn 
whichever  is  powerful. 

(b)  When  powerful  according  to  the  Commentator. 


164  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XVL 

(c)  The  Pravrajya  will  be  that  of  Saturn. 

(d]  And  not  aspected  by  any  other  planet. 

(<?)     The  ascetic  life  will  be  that  described  for  Saturn. 

4.  A  person  born  when  Jupiter,  the  Moon  and  the 
rising  sign  are  aspected  by  Saturn,  when  Jupiter  occupies 
the  9th  house  from  the  Ascendant  and  under  one  of  the 
Raja  yogas  becomes  a  scientific  Author  (a).  Again,  a 
person  born  when  Saturn  occupies  the  9th  house  from  the 
Ascendant  and  is  not  aspected  by  other  planets  and  under  a 
Raja  yoga  will  become  both  an  emperor  and  an  ascetic  (b\ 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  the  horoscope  contains  Raja  yoga  and  an 
ascetic  yoga,  the  former  will  not  take  effect,  but  the  latter 
will,  such  for  instance  as  the  lives  of  Varaha  Mihira, 
Kanada  Buddha,  Panchasikha,  Brahma-Gupta  and  others. 
If  the  horoscope  contain  two  Raja  yogas  and  an  ascetic 
yoga,  the  person  will  become  a  king  as  well  as  a  scientific 
Author — such  as  Janaka,  Kasiraja,  iSuchidhwaja  and 
others. 

(t>)  If  the  horoscope  contain  no  Raja  yogas  but  only 
the  ascetic  yogas  described  in  the  Text,  the  person  will  be- 
come an  ascetic. 

END. OF  POORYABHAGA  (PARTI.) 


CHAPTER  XVI. 
On  The  Nakshatras 

OR 

The  Moon  in  The  Asterisms. 

1.     A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Aswini  will  be  fond  of  ornaments,  will  be  of 
fine  appearance,  will  be  popular,  skilled  in  work  and  in- 
telligent. 


CH.  XVI.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  165 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Bharani  will  be  successful  at  work,  truthful,  free 
from  diseases,  able  and  free  from  grief. 

2.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Krittika  will  be  a  glutton,  fond  of  the  wives  of 
other  men,  of  bright  appearance  and  of  wide-spread  fame. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the  as- 
terism of  Rohini  will  be  truthful,  will  not  covet  the  property 
of  other  men,  will  be  of  cleanly  habits,  of  sweet  speech,  of 
firm  views,  and  of  fine  appearance. 

3.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Mrigasirsha  will  be  of  no  firm  principles,  will 
be  able,  timid,  of  good  speech,  of  active  habits,   rich  and 
will  indulge  in  sexual  pleasures. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Ardra  will  be  insincere,  of  irascible  temper, 
ungrateful,  indulge  in  torture  and  be  addicted  to  wicked 
deeds. 

4.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Punarvasu  will  be  devout  and  of  patient  habits, 
will  live  in  comfort,  will  be  good-natured,  quiet,  of  wrong 
views,  sickly,  thirsty  and  pleased  with  trifles. 

5.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Pushya  will  have  a  control  over  his  desires,  will 
be  generally  liked,  learned  in  the  Sastras,  rich  and  will  be 
fond  of  acts  of  charity. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Aslesha  will  not  be  attentive  to  the  work  of 
other  men,  will  be  a  promiscuous  eater,  will  be  sinful,  un- 
grateful and  skilled  in  cheating  other  men. 

6.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Magha   will  have  numerous  servants,  will  be 
very  rich>  will  live   in  comfort,  will  worship  the  Devas 
and  Pitris  and  will  be  engaged  in  important  works, 


166  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XVI 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  P.  Phalguni  will  be  of  sweet  speech,  will  be 
liberal  in  his  gifts,  of  fine-appearance,  of  wandering  habits 
and  will  serve  under  kings. 

7.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  U.  Phalguni  will  be  generally  liked,  will  earn 
money  by  his  learning  and  will  live  in  comfort. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Hasta  will  be  of  active  habits,  full  of  resour- 
ces, shameless,  merciless  and  a  thief  and  a  drunkard. 

8.  A  person  born  when  the    Moon   passes    through 
the  asterism  of  Chittra  will  wear   cloths   and   flowers   of 
various  colours  and  will  have  beautiful  eyes  and  limbs. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Swati  will  be  of  a  mild  and  quiet  nature,  will 
control  his  passion,  will  be  skilled  in  trade,  will  be  merci- 
ful, (a)  of  sweet  speech  and  disposed  to  do  acts  of  charity. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Unable  to  bear  thirst  according  to  another 
reading. 

9.  A  person  born  when  the   Moon   passes   through 
the  asterism  of  Visakha  will  be  jealous  of  another's  pros- 
perity, will  be  a  niggard,  of  bright  appearance,  of  distinct 
speech,  (a)    skilled    in  earning   money   and    disposed  to 
bring  about  quarrels  among  men. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Anuradha  will  be  rich,  will  live  in  foreign 
lands,  will  be  unable  to  bear  hunger  and  disposed  to 
wander  from  place  to  place. 

NOTES. 

(#)  Will  be  skilled  in  earning  money  according  to 
another  reading. 

10.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon   passes  through 
the  asterism  of  Jyeshta  will   have   few  friends,  will   be 
very  cheerful,  virtuous,  and  of  irascible  temper. 


CH.  XVI.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  167 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Moola  will  be  haughty,  rich,  happy,  not  dis- 
posed to  injure  other  men,  of  firm  views  and  will  live  in 
luxury. 

11.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon    passes  through 
the  asterism  of  P.  Ashadha  will  have  an  agreeable   wife> 
will  be  proud  and  attached  to  friends. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  U.  Ashadha  will  be  obedient,  will  be  learned 
in  the  rules  of  virtue,  will  possess  many  friends,  will  be 
grateful  and  return  favours  received  and  will  be  generally 
liked. 

12.  A  person   born  when  the  Mopn  passes  through 
the  asterism  of  Sravana  will  be  prosperous  and   learned, 
will  have  a  liberal-minded  wife,  will  be  rich,  aod  of  wide- 
spread fame. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Dhanishta  will  be  liberal  in  gifts,  rich,  valiant, 
fond  of  music  and  will  be  a  niggard. 

13.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon    passes  through 
the  asterism  of  Satabhishak  will  be  harsh  in   his    speech, 
will  be  truthful,  will  suffer  grief,  will  conquer  his  enemies, 
will  thoughtlessly  engage  in  work   and  will   be  of  inde- 
pendent w.ays. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the  as- 
terism of  P.  Bhadrapada  will  suffer  from  grief,  will  place 
his  wealth  at  the  disposal  of  his  wife,  will  be  of  distinct 
speech  (a)  and  will  be  a  niggard. 

NOTES. 

(#)     Or  will  be  skilled  in  earning  money. 

J4.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through 
the  asterism  of  U.  Bhadrapada  will  be  an  able  speaker 
will  be  happy,  will  possess  children  and  grand- children 
will  conquer  his  enemies  and  will  be  virtuous, 


168  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XVII. 

A  person  born  when  the  Moon  passes  through  the 
asterism  of  Revati  will  possess  perfect  limbs,  will  be  liked 
by  all  people,  valiant  in  fight,  will  never  covet  the 
property  of  other  men  and  will  be  rich, 

NOTES. 

The  effects  described  above  will  fully  come  to  pass 
only  if  the  Moon  be  powerful. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 
On  the  Moon  in  the  Several  Signs  of 
the  Zodiac. 

1.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Aries  will 
have  round  red-eyes,  will  be  fond  of  vegetable  food  and 
will  eat  hot  meals  but  in  a  moderate  degree  ;  will  be  of  a 
quickly  relenting  nature,  will  be  fond  of  travels  and  of 
sexual  union  ;  will  be  of  weak  knees;  will  possess  no 
permanent  wealth  ;  will  be  fond  of  fight  and  of  women ; 
will  be  skilled  in  serving  under  other  men  ;  will  have  dis- 
figured nails  and  a  wounded  head ;  will  be  haughty,  will 
be  the  eldest  of  his  brothers  ;  will  have  lines  in  his  hand  of 
the  shape  of  the  weapon  known  as  Sakti;  will  be  fickle- 
minded  and  will  be  afraid  of  water. 

2.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Taurus  will 
be  of  fine  appearance  and  of  beautiful  gait;  will  possess 
large  thighs  and  face ;  will  possess  marks  on  his  back,  face 
or  sides  ;  will  be  liberal  in  his  gifts  ;  will  bear  misfortunes  ; 
will  possess  great  influence  and  authority  ;  will  have  a 
large  hump  on  the  neck ;  will  have  daughters ;  will  suffer 
from  phlegmatic  affections  ;  will  be  separated  from  his 
kinsmen,  wealth  and  sons  ;  will  be  liked  by  all  men 
will  be  of  patient  nature  ;  will  be  a  great  eater  ;  will  be 
fond  of  women  ;  will  be  attached  to  his  friends  and  will  be 
Jiappy  both  in  middle  age  and  old  age  (a). 


CH.  XVII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  169 

(a)    And  therefore  unhappy  when  young. 

3.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Gemini  will 
be  fond  of  women,  will  be  skilled  in  sexual  union  ;  will 
possess  red  eyes  ;  will  be  learned  in  the  Sastras  ;  will  carry 
messages  ;  will  possess  curling  hairs  and  a  sharp  intellect ; 
will  be  skilled  in  wit,  in  discovering  the  thoughts  of  other 
men  and  in  game  ;  will  possess  beautiful  features  ;  will  be 
of  sweet  speech  ;   will  be  a  great  eater  ;   will  be  fond  of 
music,  and   skilled   in  the   rules  of   dance;   will  join    in 
sexual  union  with  hermaphrodities ;  and  will  possess  an 
elevated  nose. 

4.  A  person   born    with   the  Moon   in  sign   Cancer 
will  walk  fast  with  his  body  bent  ;  will  have  a   high  hip  ; 
will  be  subject  to  the  influence  of  women  ;  will   have  an 
excellent  friend  ;  will  be  learned  in  Astrology  ;  will  have 
numerous  houses ;  will  have  a  wealth  which  will  increase 
and  decrease  as  the  Moon  ;  will  be  short ;  will  possess  a 
thick  neck  ;   will  be  capable  of  being  won  over  by  kind 
words  ;  will  be  attached  to  his  friends  and  will  be  fond  of 
water  and  forests. 

5.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Leo  will  be 
of  irascible  temper,  of  large  cheeks,  broad  face  and  brotvn 
eyes;  will  have  very  few  sons;    will  hate  women ;  will  be 
fond  of  animal  food,  forests  and  hills;  will  continue  angry 
at  trifles  for  a  longtime ;  will  be  afflicted  with  pains  caused 
by  hunger,  thirst,   stomach-ache,  tooth-ache  as   well   as 
purely  mental  anxieties  ;  will  be  liberal  in  his  gifts ;    wii 
be  bold  in  fight ;    will   be   of  fixed    principles  ;    will  be 
haughty  and  attached  to  his  mother. 

6.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Virgo  will 
have  lovely  eyes   and  slow  gait  through   modesty  ;    will 
have   his  shoulders  and   arms  sunk  or  depressed;    will 
live  in  comfort ;  will  have  soft  body  and  speech  ;    will  be 
truthful,  will  be  skilled  in  dance,  music  painting  and  book- 
making;  will  be  learned  in  the  Sastras;  will  be  viituoijs 

tt 


170  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  XVII. 

and  intelligent,  will  be  fond  of  sexual  union  ;  will  enjoy 
.the  house  and  property  of  other  men ;  will  live  in  foreign 
lands  ;  will  be  of  sweet  speech  ;  and  will  have  daughters 
and  very  few  sons. 

7.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Libra  will 
respect  the  Devas,  Brahmins,  and  holy  men  ;   will   be  in- 
telligent (a)  will  never  covet  the  property  of  other  men  ; 
will   be   learned    in   the  Vedas  ;   will   be  subject   to  the 
influence  of  women ;  will  be  tall ;  will  have  a  raised  nose; 
will  be  of  thin  and   defective  limbs  and  fond  of  travels; 
will  be  rich  ;  will  be  a  trader  ;    will   bear  the  name   of  a 
Deva  coupled  with  an   excellent  surname  granted  by  a 
body  of  learned  men ;    will    be   sickly  ;    will  protect  his 
family  and  will  be  disgraced  and  rejected  by  his  kinsmen. 

NOTES. 

;.  •  (a  The  Sanskrit  term  used  is  Pragna  which  is  in- 
terpreted to  mean  a  person  of  very  acute  intelligence 
and  one  that  possesses  a  knowledge  of  the  current  and 
future  events. 

8.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Scorpio  will 
have  broad  eyes,  a  broad  breast  and  round  shanks,  thighs 
and  knees  ;  will  be  separated  from  his  parents  and  precep- 
tors;  will  be  afflicted  with  diseases  when  young;  will  be 
respected  by  the  king's  family  ;  will  be  of  brown  colour; 
will  not  be  of  a  straightforward  nature ;   will  have  lines  in 
his   hand  and  feet  of  the  shape  of  the  fish,  the  Vajrayudha 
or  a  bird  ;  and  will  endeavor  to  conceal  his  sins. 

9.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in   sign    Sagittari 
will  have  a  long  face  and  neck  ;  will   inherit   his   father's 
property;  will  be  liberal  in   his  gift  ;  will    be   a   literary 
author  ;  will  be  powerful  and  skilled  in  speech  ;  will  have 
large  teeth,  ears,  lips  and  nose,    will  engage   in  numerous 
works  ;  will  be  skilled  in  fine  arts  ;  will  have    indistinct 
shoulders,  disfigured  nails  and  large  ^arms  ;  will  be   of  a 


CH.  XVII.]  tirihat  Jdtakd.  171 

deep  and  inventive  intellect,  will  be  a  man  of  right  under- 
standing; will  hate  his  kinsmen  ;  will  never  yield  to  com- 
pulsion but  only  to  kind  treatment. 

10.  A  person  born  with  the  Moon  in  sign  Capricorn 
will  be  ever  attached  to  his  wife  and    children  ;    will  do 
deeds  of  virtue  for  outward  show;  will  have  weak    lower 
limbs,  good   eyes  and  a  thin  waist;    will  readily  under- 
stand    what  is   spoken  ;    will  be   liked  by  all   and  slow  at 
work  ;  will  not  bear  cold  ;  will  be  of  a   wandering  nature, 
liberal  or  powerful  and  a  literary  author;  will  be  a  nig- 
gard and  will  be  attached  to  old  women  of  low   caste  j 
will  be  shameless  and  merciless. 

11.  A  person  born  with  the   Moon  in  sign  Aquarius 
will  have  a  neck  like  that  of  the   camel,  a   body   covered 
with  muscles,  rough  and  covered  with  hair;  will  be  tall  ; 
will  have  large   feet,    thighs,   back,  buttocks,  face   and 
lower  belly  ;    will  be  deaf;   will  be   attached  to  the  wives 
and  property  of  other  men  and  do  wicked  deeds  ;  will  rise 
and  fall  by  turns  ;   will  be  fond  of  flowers  and  perfumes  ; 
and   will  be   attached   to  friends  and  will   walk   without 
feeling  tired. 

12.  A    person   born  with  the    Moon  in    sign  Pisces 
will  be  a  dealer  in  the   produce  of  the    sea  and  enjoy  the 
property  of  other  men  ;  will  be  fond  of  his  wife  and  clothes 
will    have   perfect   limbs,  a  bright  body,  long   nose  and 
large  head,  will  put  his  enemies  to  disgrace,  will   be  sub- 
ject  to    the    influence    of    women,  will   have   beautiful 
eyes,  and  will  be  fair;  will  enjoy  hidden  treasure;  will  be 
rich,  and  learned. 

1 3.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Moon,  the 
sign  occupied  by  the  Moon  and  the    lord  of  such  sign  be 
all  powerful,  the  effects  described  in  this  chapter  will  fully 
come  to  pass  (a};  the  same  remark  applies  to  planets  other 
than  the  Moon  (6)t 


172  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [On.  XVIIL 

NOTES- 

(a}  If  two  of  the  three  be  powerful,  the  effects 
will  come  to  pass  imperfectly ;  if  only  one  of  the  three 
be  powerful,  they  will  come  to  pass  still  more  imperfect- 
ly and  if  none  of  the  three  be  powerful,  the  effects  will 
fail, 

(£)  This  refers  to  the  next  chapter  in  which  the 
Author  describes  the  effects  of  the  various  planets  occupy- 
ing the  several  signs  of  the  Zodiac  at  the  time  of  birth. 


CHAPTER  XVIIL 

On  the  Sun,  Mars  and  other  Planets 
in  the  several  Signs  of  the  Zodiac. 

1.     A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  Aries  but  not  in 
its  exaltation  degree  (a^will  be  of  wide-spread  fame,  abil- 
ty  of  wandering  habits,  possessed  of  small  wealth   and 
will  carry  weapons. 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Taurus  will  deal 
in  clothes,  perfumes  and  other  articles,  will  hate  women 
and  will  be  skilled  in  music,  vocal  and  instrumental. 

NOTKS. 

(a)  A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  the  exaltation 
degree  will  be  very  rich,  \vill  remain  for  ever  in  a  place, 
will  have  servants  carrying  arms,  will  be  of  great  fame 
and  ability. 

2.  A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Gemini  will 
be  learned  in  grammar,  will  be.  an  Astrologer  and  will  be 
rich. 

A  person    born  with   the  Sun  in  Cancer  will  be  in* 
dependent  and  fierce,  poor,    will  do   the    work   of   other 
people  and  will  suffer  fiolit  the  fatigue  of  foot -journey. 


CH.  XVIII.]  BriJiat  Jdtakd.  173 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Leo  will  be  fond 
of  living  in  forests,  mountains  and  cow-sheds,  will  be 
powerful  and  will  be  a  fool. 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Virgo  will  be 
skilled  in  writing,  painting,  in  literary  productions,  in 
mathematics  and  in  worldly  knowledge,  and  will  possess 
a  body  resembling  that  of  a  woman. 

3.  A  person  born  with   the  Sun  in  sign  Libra   will 
be   fond   of  liquor  or   will   manufacture  it,  will   be  of  a 
wandering    nature,  will  be    an   alchemist   and   will   do 
wicked  deeds. 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Scorpio  will  be 
of  a  fierce  nature,  will  thoughtlessly  engage  in  work,  will 
earn  money  by  acts  connected  with  poison  (<?),  and  will  be 
vastly  learned  in  the  use  of  arms. 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  Sagittari  will  be  res- 
pected by  sages,  will  be  rich  and  independent  and  will  be 
learned  in  medicine  and  sculpture. 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Capricorn  will 
engage  in  deeds  unsuited  to  his  rank  in  life,  will  be  igno- 
rant, will  deal  in  mean  articles,  will  possess  small  wealth, 
will  be  avaricious  and  will  enjoy  the  property  of  other 
men. 

NOTES. 

(a}  According  to  another  reading,  his  earning  will 
become  useless  to  him. 

4.  A  person  born   with  the  Sun  in  sign    Aquarius 
will  engage  in  deeds  unsuited  to  his   rank  in  life,  will  be 
poor  and  will  have  no  sons  and  no  property* 

A  person  born  with  the  Sun  in  sign  Pisces  will  be- 
come rich  by  dealing  in  the  produce  of  water,  will  be  res- 
pected by  women.  The  person  will  also  possess  a  mole  or 
other  marks  in  the  part  of  body  corresponding  to  the  sign 
occupied  by  the  Sun  and  the  Moon  together  at  the  time  of 
his  birth  (vide.  Stanza  4,  Ch.  I.) 


Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XVlil. 

5.  A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Aries  or  Scorpio 
will  be   respected  by   the  king,   will   be  of  a    wandering 
nature,  will  be  a  commander  of  armies,  a  trader,  will  be 
rich,  will  have   a  body   marked  with   wounds,   will  be  a 
thief  and  will  be  in  the  enjoyment  of  the  pleasures  of  the 
senses. 

A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Taurus  or  Libra 
will  be  subject  to  the  influence  of  women,  will  not  be 
open  to  the  advice  of  friends,  will  be  fond  of  the  wives  of 
other  men,  will  be  learned  in  the  games  of  magic,  will- 
adorn  his  person,  will  be  of  a  timid  nature  and  will  have 
a  rough  body. 

6.  A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Gemini  or  Virgo 
will  be  of  bright  appearance,   will  have    sons   and    no 
friends,  will  help   others,    will  be   skilled  in   music   and 
fight,   will  be  a  niggard,  and  will  bs    fearless  and  of  a 
begging  nature. 

A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Cancer  will  be 
rich,  will  cross  seas  and  earn  wealth,  will  be  intelligent} 
will  be  of  defective  limbs  and  will  be  wicked. 

7.  A  person  born  with   Mars   in  sign   L,eo  will  be 
poor,  will  patiently  bear  afflictions,   will   wander  in   the 
forests,   will  be  fearless   and   will   have   few   wives  and 
children. 

A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Sagittari  or  Pisces 
will  have  many  enemies,  will  be  the  king's  minister,  will 
be  of  wide-spread  fame,  will  be  fearless  and  will  have 
very  few  children. 

A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Aquarius  will  ever 
suffer  grief,  will  be  poor,  will  wander  from  place  to  place, 
will  be  a  liar,  will  be  independent  and  wicked, 

A  person  born  with  Mars  in  sign  Capricorn  will  be 
Very  rich,  will  have  inany  sons  and  will  be  a  king  or  will 
resemble  a  king* 


CH,  XVIII.]  BriJiat  Jdtakd.  175 

8.  A  person   born   with   Mercury  in  sign   Aries   or 
Scorpio  will  be  fond  of  gambling,   of   running   into  debt, 
and  of  liquor  ;  will  be   an   atheist,  will   argue  against  the 
spirit  of  the  Sastras,  will  be   a  thief,   will  be   poor,    will 
have  a  mean  wife,  will  be  deceitful,  will  be  a  liar  and  will 
swerve   from  the  path  of  rectitude. 

A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Taurus  or  Libra 
will  be  a  preacher,  will  have  many  sons  and  wives,  will 
ever  be  engaged  in  earning  money,  will  be  liberal  in  gift 
and  will  respect  his  preceptor  (a). 

NOTES. 

(<?)    And  parents,  according  to  the  Commentator. 

9.  A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Gemini  will 
be  boastful,  will  be  learned  in  the  sciences,  and  in  music, 
dance  and  painting ;  will  be  of  sweet  speech  and  will  live 
in  comfort. 

A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Cancer  will 
earn  money  by  works  connected  with  water  (<?)  and  will 
be  disliked  by  his  kinsmen. 

NOTES, 
(a.)     Acts  of  strength  according  to  another   reading. 

10.  A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Leo  will  be 
disliked  by  women,  will  be  poor,   will  have   neither  com- 
fort nor  sons,  will  wander  from    place   to  place,   will  be 
ignorant,  will  be  fond  of  women  and  will  suffer  disgrace. 

A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Virgo  will  be 
liberal  in  gift,  will  be  learned,  will  possess  many  virtues 
will  live  in  comfort,  will  be  of  a  patient  nature,  will  be 
ingenious  and  fearless. 

11.  A  person  born  with  Mercury  in   sign  Capricorn 
or  Aquarius  will  work  for  other   men,    will  be   poor,  will 
be  a  sculptor,  will  run  into   debts   and   will    work  for  no 
fees. 


176  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  XVI11. 

A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Sagittari  will  be 
respected  by  kings,  will  be  learned  in  sciences  and  in 
laws. 

A  person  born  with  Mercury  in  sign  Pisces  will  be 
skilled  in  befriending  other  men,  will  readily  discover 
the  views  of  other  people,  and  will  be  learned  in  the 
handicraft  of  men  of  low  castes — such  as  shoe-making 
and  the  like. 

12.  A   person   born  with  Jupiter  in  sign   Aries   or 
Scorpio  will  be  a  commander  of  armies,  will  be  very  rich, 
will  have  many  wives  and  children,  will  be  liberal  in  gift, 
will  have  good  servants,  will   be  of  a  patient  nature,  and 
of  bright  appearance,  will  be   happy  with   his   wife   and 
will  be  of  great  fame. 

A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Taurus  or  Libra 
will  be  free  from  diseases,  will  live  in  comfort,  will  be 
rich,  will  have  friends  and  sons,  will  be  liberal  in  gift 
and  will  be  liked  by  all. 

A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Gemini  or  Virgo 
will  have  many  clothes,  houses,  servants,  sons  and  friends, 
will  be  a  minister  and  will  live  in  comfort. 

13.  A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Cancer  will 
be  possessed  of  gems,  sons,  wealth,  wife,  influence,  intelli- 
gence and  comfort. 

A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Leo  will  be  all 
that  has  been  said  in  the  case  of  a  person  born  with  Jupi- 
ter in  Cancer  and  will,  besides,  be  a  commander  of  armies. 

A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Sagittari  or  Pis- 
ces will  be  the  ruler  of  a  province  or  a  minister  under  a 
king  or  the  commander  of  armies  or  will  be  very  rich. 

A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Aquarius  will  be 
all  that  has  been  said  in  the  case  of  a  person  born  with 
the  Moon  in  sign  Cancer. 


CH.  XVIIL]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  177 

A  person  born  with  Jupiter  in  sign  Capricorn  will  do 
deeds  disgraceful  to  his  rank  in  life,  will  possess  very  little 
wealth  and  will  be  afflicted  with  grief. 

14.  A  person   born  with   Venus   in   sign   Aries  or 
Scorpio  will  be  fond  of  the  wives   of  other  men,  will  lose 
his  property  through  their  influence  and  will  bring  dis- 
grace on  his  family. 

A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign  Taurus  or  Libra 
will  acquire  wealth  by  his  own  powers  and  intelligence, 
will  be  liked  by  the  king,  will  be  an  important  person 
among  his  kinsmen,  will  be  a  man  of  fame  and  will  be 
fearless. 

15.  A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign   Gemini  will 
do  the  work  of  a  king,  will  be  rich  and  learned    in  music. 

A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign  Virgo,  will  en- 
gage in  hard  work. 

A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign  Capricorn  or  Aqua- 
rius will  be  liked  by  all,  will  be  subject  to  the  influence  of 
women  and  will  be  fond  of  mean  women. 

16.  A  person  born  with   Venus  in  sign  Cancer  will 
have  two  wives,  will  be  a  beggar,   will  be  timid  and   very 
haughty  and  will  suffer  much  grief. 

A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign  Leo  will  acquire 
money  through  women,  will  have  an  excellent  wife  and 
very  few  sons. 

A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign  Sagittari  will  be 
possessed  of  excellent  qualities  and  will  be  rich. 

A  person  born  with  Venus  in  sign  Pisces  will  be  learn- 
ed, will  be  rich,  will  be  respected  by  the  king  and  will  be 
liked  by  all. 

17.  A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Aries  will  be 
a  fool,  will  wander  from  place  to   place,  will  be  a  fop  and 
will  have  no  friends. 

A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign   Scorpio  will  suf- 
23 


178  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  XVIII. 

fer  imprisonment,  will  receive    blows,  will   be  indifferent 
to  work  and  will  be  merciless. 

A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Gemini  or  Virgo 
will  be  shameless,  will  suffer  grief,  will  be  poor,  will  have 
no  sons,  will  be  a  bad  painter  or  writer,  will  be  a  consta- 
ble and  will  be  a  chief  officer. 

18.  A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Taurus  will 
be  fond  of  women  of  low  caste,  will   possess  small  wealth 
and  will  have  several   wives. 

A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Libra,  will  be  a 
man  of  well-known  fame,  will  be  the  chief  of  a  party  of 
men  in  a  town  or  in  an  army  or  in  a  village  and  will  be 
rich. 

A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Cancer  will  be 
poor,  will  have  very  few  teeth,  will  be  separated  from  his 
mother,  and  will  have  no  sons  and  will  be  a  fool. 

A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Leo  will  not  be 
deserving  of  respect,  will  suffer  grief,  will  have  no  sons 
and  will  carry  burdens. 

19.  A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Sagittari  or 
Pisces  will  die  an  excellent  death,  will  be  a  faithful  officer 
in  the  king's  palace,  will  have  good  sons  and  a  good  wife, 
will  be;possessed  of  good  wealth,  will  be  the  chief  man  in 
a  town,  in  an  army  or  in  a  village. 

A  person  born  with  Saturn  in  sign  Capricorn  or 
Aquarius  will  be  with  the  wives  and  property  of  other 
men,  will  be  the  head  of  a  town,  a  village  or  an  army,  will 
have  weak  eyes,  will  be  dirty,  will  be  indifferent  to  bathing, 
will  have  a  permanent  wealth  and  authority  and  will 
enjoy  the  property  acquired  by  him. 

NOTES. 

To  determine  the  effects  of  the  planetary  places,  the 
reader  is  referred  to  Stanza  13  and  Note  (b)  to  it  of  the  last 
Chapter. 


CH.  XVIII.]  &rihat  Jatakd.  179 

20.  Effects  similar  to  those  described  for  the 
several  signs  of  the  Zodiac  when  the  Moon  occupies  them 
and  when  she  is  aspected  by  planets  are  mentioned  also  for 
the  rising  sign  ;  nay — more  effects  are  due  to  the  rising 
sign  and  to  the  2nd,  3rd  and  other  bhavas  (houses)  ;  if  the 
houses  be  powerful  and  if  their  lords  be  also  powerful,  the 
objects  signified  by  them  will  be  promoted,  and  reduced, 
if  weak. 

NOTES. 

If  the  rising  sign  and  its  lord  be  powerful,  a  person 
born  will  be  of  strong  physique  ;  if  the  2nd  house  and  its 
lord  be  powerful,  the  person  will  be  rich.  Similar  remarks 
apply  to  the  other  bhavas. 

The  following  have  been  extracted  from  Satyachariar's 
work  on  Horoscopy. 

1.  A  person  born  when  Aries  is  the  rising  sign  will 
have  disfigured  ringers,  will  be  of  irascible  temper,   will 
bring  on  enmity,  will  act  inconsistenly   with   his   views, 
will  be  of  bilious  and  windy  temperament,  will  be  a  nig- 
gard, will  suffer  grief,  will,  when  young,  be  separated  from 
his  parents  and  from  his  preceptor,  will  have  foolish  sons, 
will  assist  his  brothers  and  kinsmen,  will  be  virtuous,  will 
travel  to  foreign  lands,  will  engage  in  useless  work,   will 
marry  either  a  woman  of  low  caste  or  a  deceitful  woman  or 
a  woman  of  defective  limbs  or  one  who  was  already  married, 
will  obtain  as  relation  persons  of  a  friendly  nature  and  will 
meet   his   death  either  by  weapons   or  by   poison  or   by 
bilious  complaints  or  by  the  people  about  him  ,pr  by  fire, 
by  rain,  by  being  shut  up  in  a  prison  or  by  fall. 

2.  A  person  born  when  Taurus  is  the  rising  sign  will 
have  large  lips,  cheek,  nose  and  forehead,  will  be  of  phleg- 
matic and  windy  temperament,  will  be  liberal  in  gift,  will 
be  a  spendthrift,  will  have  daughters  and   very   few  sons, 
will  ill-treat  his   parents,  will   be  fond  of  work,   will  do 
wicked  deeds,  will  earn  much  wealth,  will  ever  be  fond  of 


180  Brihat  Jatakd.  [Cti.  XVlil 

his  wife  and  will  suffer  from  weapons.  He  will  meet  his 
death  by  weapons,  ropes  or  animals,  in  foreign  lands  or 
will  die  through  overwork  or  by  water  or  by  a  spear  or 
through  want  of  exercise  or  by  quadrupeds. 

3.  A  person  bom  when  the  rising  sign  is  Gemini  will 
either  be  of  defective  limbs  or  will  possess  extra  limbs,  will 
be  of  sweet  speech,  will  engage  in  excellent  works,  will  be 
of  a  mixed  temperament,  will  be  of  small   understanding 
and  of  small  body,  will  be  liked  by  his  preceptor  and  by 
sages,  will  have  very  few  younger  brothers,  will  not  be  of 
very  active  habits,   will  put  other  men   to  disgrace,   will 
possess  good  qualities,  will  be   anxious  to  engage  in   a 
number  of  works   will  be   virtuous  and  not  wicked,   will 
earn  and  spend  much,  will  possess  several  wives  and  will 
be  free  from  serious  diseases.     He  will  meet  his  death  by 
snake-bite,  poison,  animals  or  by  water. 

4.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  sign  is  Cancer  will 
be  a  man  of  no  fixed  principles,  will  suffer  from  diseases  of 
genital  organs,  will  be  of  a  timid  nature,    will  be  grateful, 
will  be  of  phlegmatic  and  windy  temperament,   will  be  of 
firm  understanding,   will  do  sinful  actions,  will  spend  the 
property  of  other  men  -  also,   will  be  haughty  among  his 
people,  will  be  put  to  disgrace  by  his  kinsmen,  will  lose 
his  children,  will   engage  in  important   works  in   foreign 
lands,  will  be  of  imperfect  speech,   will  be  a  master  over 
other  men,  will  have  an  unequal  wife,  will  suffer  disgrace 
from  his  enemies  and  will  be  respected  by  many  persons. 
He  will  meet  his  death  by  means  of  a  neck  ornament  or  a 
rope,   by   phlegmatic    complaints,  by    the     fracture    of 
bones,  by  sword  cut,  or  by  dropsy. 

5.  A  person  born  when   the  rising  sign  is  Leo  will 
be  severe,  fond  of  animal  food  and  of  bilious  tempera- 
ment, will  dispel  destruction,  will  support  his  family  by 
engaging  in  various    works,   will  be  a   niggard,  will  like 
people,   will   be   a  man  of  renown  and  of  resignation  ; 


CH.  XVIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  181 

will  annoy  his  kinsmen,  will  be  able  and  energetic,  will 
be  of  a  sinful  nature,  will  possess  several  wives  and  will 
have  a  diseased  waist,  knees  and  teeth.  He  will  meet 
his  death  by  weapons,  hurtful  animals,  by  poison,  by 
wood,  by  diseases,  by  the  creatures  of  water  or  by 
starvation. 

6.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  sign  is  Virgo,  will 
be  of  sweet  speech,  of  bright  personal  appearance,   long 
legs  and  arms,  will  be  of  a  mixed  temperament,  will  be  of 
excellent  beauty,  will  receive  wounds,  will  be  rich,  will  be 
a  niggard,   will  be   attached   to  his   kinsmen,  will  have 
many  daughters,  will  be  in  bad  terms   with   his    brothers 
and  sisters,  will  be  inclined   to  deeds  of  virtue,   will   not 
earn  much,  and  will  be   skilled  in   work.     He   will  meet 
his  death  by  means   of  quadrupeds,   weapons,    bilious 
attacks,  grief,  fire  or  rope. 

7.  A  person  born  when  Libra  is  the  rising  sign  will 
be  of  a  rough  body,  a  harsh  nature  and  a  phlegmatic  and 
Windy  temperament,  will  thoughtlessly  begin  a  work,  will 
be  of  short   neck,   will   be   grateful,  will   acquire  much 
wealth,  will  become  famous  by  his  acts  of  liberality,  will 
serve     under   his    preceptor,   will   be   respected    by  his 
father,  brothers  and  others,  will  be  fond  of  travels,   will 
be  virtuous,  will  conceal  himself  to  escape  troubles  from 
his  kinsmen,  will  lose  his  wife,  will  be  fond  of  fight  and 
will   suffer   from   grief.     He  will    meet   his  death   by  a 
famous   man,  by  his   kinsmen,  by   mild   quadrupeds,  by 
calamity,  by  separation  from  an  object  of  desire  or  by  the 
fatigue  of  journey. 

8.  A  person  born   when  the   rising   sign  is  Scorpio 
will  have  a  broad  face  and  a  long  belly,  will  be  of  a  harsh 
nature  and   of  a  bilious   temperament,   will  have  brown 
eyes,  will  be  slow  and  of  quick  pace,  will  be  a  master  over 
others,   will  protect  a   large  family,  will  be  hated  by   his 
kinsmen,  will  spend  much,  will  have   many  children,  will 


182  krihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XVlH. 

not  live  in  comfort,  will  have  no  enemies,  will  lose  his  vir- 
tues, will  protect  oxen,  will  fall  into  bad  temper  on  account 
of  his  wife,  will  yield  nothing  to  his  enemies,  will  have  his 
own  men  for  his  enemies,  will  suffer  from  numerous 
diseases  and  will  surrender  himself  to  his  foe  out  of  fear 
of  sword-cut.  He  will  meet  his  death  by  imprisonment, 
blows,  sword-cut,  bad  diseases  or  by  fire. 

9.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  sign  is  Sagittari 
will  have  large  limbs,  teeth  and  nose,  will  be  of  phlegmatic 
and  windy  temperament,  will  have  a  fleshy  genital  organ, 
thighs  and  arms,  will  be  of  defective  nails,  will  be  skilled 
in  work,  will  be  bold  in  fight,  will  serve  under  men  of 
low  caste,  will  be  deprived  of  his  property  by  thieves,  by 
fire  or  by  the  king,  will  be  learned  in  laws,  will  be  respected 
by  many  people,  will  give  trouble  to  his  brothers,  will 
work  in  foreign  lands,  will  be  liked  by  the  king,  will  be 
indifferent  to  deeds  of  virtue,  will  quarrel  with  his  wives 
and  will  have  a  diseased  face.  He  will  meet  his  death  by 
quadrupeds,  snakes,  the  king  or  by  imprisonment. 

30.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  sign  is  Capricorn 
will  have  a  small  nose,  long  face,  arms  and  legs;  will  be 
of  windy  temperament,  of  a  timid  nature,  will  thoughtlessly 
engagein  work,  will  suffer  imprisonment,  will  have  a  small 
family,  and  small  wealth,  will  be  a  niggard,  will  have 
daughters,  will  have  no  kinsmen,  will  live  in  plenty,  will 
acquire  wealth  by  his  valour  through  the  kingand  by  forest, 
will  observe  fasting,  will  have  a  wife  of  low  caste,  and  will 
be  attached  to  her,  will  have  a  large  body,  few  hairs  and 
weak  knees  and  will  suffer  from  diseases.  He  will  meet 
his  death  by  children,  by  the  wind,  by  weapons,  by  the 
king,  by  poison,  by  fall,  by  an  elephant,  by  an  increase 
of  bile  or  by  dyspepsia. 

11.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  sign  is  Aquarius, 
will  be  of  inactive  habits  and  of  harsh  nature,  will  be  the 
eldest  in  the  family,  will  be  of  bilious  and  windy  tempera- 


CH.  XIX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  183 

.ment,  will  have  a  nose  shaped  like  the  flower  or  sesa- 
mum  plant,  will  waste  his  wealth,  will  have  many  ser- 
vants, will  be  hated  by  his  kinsmen,  preceptors,  enemies 
and  friends;  be  fond  of  deeds  of  wickedness,  will  acquire 
much  property,  will  never  spend  money  on  charity,  will 
assume  a  show  of  virtue,  will  worship  the  Devas  and  will 
suffer  from  phlegmatic  attacks  affecting  the  chest.  He 
will  meet  his  death  from  pains  in  the  belly  by  vomition 
and  by  drugs  administered  by  women. 

12.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  sign  is  Pisces 
will  have  thick  lips,  fish-like  eye  and  large  nose,  will  be 
of  phlegmatic  and  windy  temperament,  will  be  a  sage, 
will  be  of  disfigured  skins  and  of  active  habits,  will  be 
remarkable  for  his  gain  and  loss,  will  have  good  servants 
and  kinsmen,  will  be  disposed  to  deeds  of  virtue,  will 
have  a  good  wife,  will  help  his  father,  will  join  a  woman  of 
low  deeds  and  will  have  bad  enemies.  He  will  meet  his 
death  by  disease,  corruption  of  the  blood,  snake  bite,  attack 
of  a  lion,  by  the  chiefs  of  parties  of  men,  by  venereal 
diseases,  by  drugs,  by  fasting  or  by  the  fatigues  of  journey  . 


CHAPTER    XIX. 
On  Planetary  Aspects. 

1.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign 
Aries  and  be  aspected  by  Mars,  the  person  will  become  a 
king  ;  if  she  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be 
learned;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  resemble  a  king ;  if  by 
Venus,  he  will  be  a  man  of  good  conduct  ;  or  a  trader 
according  to  another  reading,  ;  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be 
a  thief  and  if  by  the  Sun,  he  will  be  poor. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Taurus 
and  be  aspected  by  Mars,  the  person  will  be  poor  ;  if  she 
be  aspected  by  Mercury,  he  will  be  a  thief;  if  by  Jupiter 
he  will  be  respected  by  the  people  ;  or  will  be  a  rich  king 


184  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  XIX. 

according  to  another  reading, ;  if  by  Venus  he  will  be  a 
king  ;  if  by  Saturn,  lie  will  be  rich  and  if  by  the  Sun,  he 
will  be  a  servant. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Gemini 
and  be  aspected  by  Mars,  the  person  will  sell  weapons ;  if 
she  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  he  will  become  a  king;  if  by 
Jupiter,  he  will  be  learned  ;  if  by  Venus,  he  will  be  fear- 
less ;  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be  a  weaver  and  if  by  the  Sun, 
he  will  be  poor. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Cancer 
and  be  aspected  by  Mars,  the  person  will  be  a  valiant  sol- 
dier; if  she  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  he  will  be  a  literary 
Author ;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  learned  ;  if  by  Venus,  he 
will  be  a  king  ;  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  live  by  weapons  and 
if  by  the  Sun,  he  will  suffer  from  diseases  of  the  eye. 

2.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Leo 
and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be  an  Astro- 
loger; if  aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  rich;  if  by 
Venus,  he  will  be  a  king;  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be  a  bar- 
ber; if  by  the  Sun,  he  will  be  a  king,  and  by  if  Mars,  he 
will  also  be  a  king. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Virgo 
and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be  a  king,  if 
aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  commander  of  armies,  if 
by  Venus,  he  will  be  vigilant  and  if  by  Saturn,  the  Sun 
or  Mars,  he  will  live  by  serving  under  women. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Libra 
and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be  a  king;  if 
aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  work  in  gold  ;  if  by  Venus,  he 
will  be  a  trader  ;  and  if  by  Saturn,  the  Sun  or  Mars,  he  will 
be  deceitful. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Scorpio 
and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  get  twins  ;  (or 
will  have  two  fathers  according  to  some  Commentators) ;  if 
aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  obedient;  if  by  Venus,  he 


CH.  XIX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  185 

will  be  a  washerman  ;  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be  of  defective 
limbs  ;  if  by  the  Sun,  he  will  be  poor  and  if  by  Mars,  he 
will  be  a  king. 

3.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign 
Sagittari  and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will 
protect  his  kinsmen  ;  if  aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a 
king;  if  by  Venus,  he  will  protect  many  men  ;  and  if  by 
Saturn,  the  Sun  or  Mars,  he  will  be  a  fop  put  on  a 
show  of  virtue  and  will  not  attend  to  the  work  of  othet 
persons. 

If  at  the  time  of  biith,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Capri- 
corn and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be  the 
king  of  kings;  if  aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  king  ; 
if  by  Venus,  he  will  be  learned  ;  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be 
rich;  if  by  the  Sun,  he  will  be  poor  ;  and  if  by.  Mars,  he 
will  be  a  king. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Aqua- 
rius and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be  a 
king;  if  aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  resemble  a  king;  if 
by  Venus  or  Saturn  or  the  Sun  or  Mars  he  will  be  fond  of 
the  wives  of  other  men. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  sign  Pisces 
and  be  aspected  by  Mercury,  the  person  will  be  witty  ;  if 
aspected  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  king;  if  by  Venus,  he 
will  be  learned  and  if  by  Saturn,  the  Sun  or  Mars,  he  will 
do  wicked  deeds. 

NOTES.      ' 

As  stated  in  the  last  Stanza  of  the  last  chapter,  all  that 
has  been  said  of  the  Moon  applies  also  to  the  rising  sign. 
The  Moon  by  aspecting  the  several  signs  of  the  Zodiac 
except  sign  Cancer,  produces  malefic  effects  when  such 
signs  are  rising  signs. 

4.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  the  Solar 
or  Lunar  hora  of  a  sign,  she  will  produce  benefic  effects  if 
she  be  aspected  by  planets  occupying  respectively  the 


186  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XIX. 

Solar  and  Lunar  horas.  (a)  If  the  Moon  be  aspected  (1)  by 
the  lord  of  the  Drekkaua  occupied  by  her  (3),  or  (2)  by 
the  Lords  of  planets  occupying  friendly  signs  (c),  she  wijl 
produce  beuefic  effects.  The  effects  described  for  the 
Moon  occupying  the  several  signs  and  being  aspected  by 
the  several  planets  apply  to  her  when  she  occupies  the 
several  Dwadasamsas  and  is  aspected  by  the  several 
planets,  (d)  If  the  Moon  occupy  particular  Navamsas  and 
be  aspected  by  the  several  planets,  the  effects  will  be 
those  stated  as  follow. 
,  NOTES. 

(a)  If  the  Moon  be   aspected  by   planets   occupying 
hotus  whose  lords  are  different  from  the  lords  of  the  horas 
occupied  by  her,  the  effects  will  be  malefic.   The  same  re- 
marks apply  to  the  rising  hora. 

(b)  According  to  Swalpa  Jataka,  if  the  lord   of  the 
Drekkana  aspecting  the    Moon   be  a  benefic   planet  the 
effects   will  be  benefic  ;  if  malefic,  the  effects  will  also  be 
malefic.     The  same   remarks  apply  to   the  rising  Drek- 
kana. 

(c}  So  that  if  the  Moon  be  aspected  by  planets 
occupying  inimical  signs  the  effects  will  be  malefic. 

(d)  The  same  remark  holds  with  reference  to  the 
rising  Dwadasamsa.  If  the  rising  Dwadasamsa  be  other 
than  that  of  Cancer,  and  if  the  rising  sign  be  aspected 
by  the  Moon,  the  effects  will  be  malefic ;  if  the  rising 
Dwadasamsa  be  that  of  Cancer,  and  if  the  rising  sign  be 
aspected  by  the  Moon,  the  effects  will  be  benefic. 

5.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  the 
Navamsa  of  Mars  and  be  aspected  by  the  Sun,  the  person 
will  be  the  protector  of  a  city  ;  if  aspected  by  Mars,  he 
will  be  fond  of  torture ;  if  aspected  by  Mercury,  he  will 
be  skilled  in  duel  fight ;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  king  ; 
if  by  Venus  he  will  be  rich  ;  and  if  by  Saturn,  he  will 
bring  on  quarrels. 


CH.  XIX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  187 

If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  the  Navamsa 
of  Venus  and  be  aspected  by  the  Sun,  the  person  will  be 
a  fool ;  if  aspected  by  Mars,  he  will  be  fond  of  the  wives  of 
other  men  ;  if  by  Mercury  he  will  be  a  good  poet  or  will 
covet  the  wives  of  other  men  according  to  another  reading  > 
and  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  produce  good  literary  works  ; 
if  by  Venus,  he  will  be  fond  of  comforts  ;  if  by  Saturn,  he 
will  unite  with  the  wives  of  other  men. 

6.  If  at   the  time   of  birth,  the    Moon   occupy  the 
Navamsa  of  Mercury  and   be    aspected   by   the   Sun,  the 
person  will  be  a  duellist  or  a  dancer  ;  if  aspected  by  Mars, 
he  will  be  a  thief ;  if  by  Mercury,  he  will  be  a  great  poet ; 
if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  minister  ;  if  by  Venus,  he   will 
be  skilled  in  music,  and  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be  skilled  in 
mechanical  arts. 

If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  the  Navamsa 
of  Cancer  and  be  aspected  by  the  Sun,  the  person  will  be 
of  small  body;  if  aspected  by  Mars,  he  will  be  either  a 
niggard  or  will  possess  small  wealth ;  if  by  Mercury,  .he 
will  practise  austerities  ;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  chief, 
if  by  Venus,  he  will  thrive  by  women  ;  and  if  by  Saturn, 
he  will  be  fond  of  work. 

7.  If  at  the  time  of    birth,    the    Moon    occupy   the 
Navamsa  of  L,eo  and  be  aspected  by  the  Sun,   the  person 
will  be  a  man  of  angry  temper  ;  if  aspected  by  Mars,  he  will 
be  liked  by  the  king  ;  if  by  Mercury,  he  will  become  rich 
by  the  discovery  of  hidden  treasure  ;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will 
be  a  man  of  influence  and  authority  ;  if  by  Venus,  he  will 
have  no  sons  and  if  by  Saturn  he  will  do  wicked  deeds. 

If  at  the  time  of  brith,  the  Moon  occupy  the  Navamsa 
of  Jupiter  and  be  aspected  by  the  Sun,  the  person  will  be  a 
man  oE  well-known  powers ;  if  aspected  by  Mars,  he  will  be 
learned  in  the  rules  of  fight  ;  if  by  Mercury,  he  will  be 
skilled  in  ridicule  ;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will  be  a  minister  ;  if 


188  Srihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XIX- 

by  Venus,  he  will  be  a  mau  of  no  virility  ;  and  if  by  Saturn, 
he  will  be  charitably  disposed. 

8.  If    at    the    time    of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  the 
Navamsa  of  Saturn  and  be  aspected  by  the  Sun,  the  per- 
son will    have    very  few  children  ;   if  aspected  by  Mars, 
he  will  be  unhappy   though  rich  ;  if  by   Mercury,  he  will 
be  haughty  ;  if  by  Jupiter,  he  will   do  deeds  suited  to  his 
station  in  life  ;  if  by  Venus,  he  will  be  fond  of  bad  women 
and  if  by  Saturn,  he  will  be  a  niggard  («).     All  that  has 
been  said    for  the  Moon   occupying  particular  Navanisas 
and  being  aspected  by  the  several  planets  applies  also   to 
the  Sun — with  this  exception  that  where  Solar  aspect  has 
been  referred  to,  it  shall  be  read  as  Lunar  aspect. 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  same  remark  applies  to  the  rising  Navam- 
sa as  to  the  Moon — but  if  the  Moon  aspect  the  rising 
sign  when  the  rising  Navamsa  is  other  than  that  of  Can- 
cer, the  effects  will  be  malefic. 

9.  If  the  Moon  occupy  a  Vargottama   position,  her 
own  Navamsa,   or  other   Navanisas,    the   benefic  effects 
described  for  the  Moon  occupying  the   several  Navamsas 
and  being  aspected    by    planets  will  respectively   be  full, 
imperfect  and  small :  and  the  malefic  effects  described  will 
respectively  be  small,  imperfect  and  full,  (a}  If  the  lord  of 
the  Navamsa  be  powerful,  the  effects  described  for  planet- 
ary  aspects  in  the  case  of  Navamsas  (3)  will  alone  come  to 
pass  and  not  those  described  for  the  Moon  occupying  the 
several  signs  and  being  aspected  by  the  several  planets  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  same  remark  applies  to  the  rising  sign  and 
to  the  Sun  occupying  particular  Navanisas  and  being 
aspected  by  planets. 

(/>)  Navamsas  occupied  by  the  Moon  or  the  rising 
Navamsa  and  being  aspected  by  the  planets. 


Cu.  XX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  189 

(c)  And  not  those  described  for  planetary  aspects 
for  the  Moon  occupying  the  several  floras,  Drekkauas  and 
Dwadasamsas. 


CHAPTER  XX. 
On  the  Planets  in  the  Bhavas. 

1.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Sun  occupy 
the  Ascendant,  the  person  will  be  fond  of  fight,  slow   at 
work,  without  sight  and  without   mercy  ;  but  if  Aries  be 
the  rising  sign  and  the  Sun  occupy  it,  the  person  will  be 
rich  and  afflicted  with  diseases   of  the  eye  ;  if  Leo  be  the 
rising  sign  and   the  Sun  occupy  it,  he  will  be  blind  at 
night  ;  if  Libra  be  the  rising  sign  and  the  Sun  occupy  it, 
the  person  will  be  blind  and  poor  ;  if  Cancer  be  the  rising 
sign  and  the  Sun  occupy  it,  he  will  have  a   inote  in  his 
eye.     If  the  Sun  occupy  the    2nd  house  from  the  Ascen- 
daut,  the  person  will  be  greatly  rich,  will  have  his  wealth 
carried  away  by  the  king  and  will  suffer  from  diseases  in 
the  face. 

2.  If  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Sun  occupy  the  3rd 
house  from  the  Ascendant,  the  person  will  be  intelligent 
and  powerful ;  if  he  occupy  the  4th  house,  the  person  will 
be  afflicted  with  grief  and  mental  sufferings  ;  if  he  occupy 
the  5th  house,  he  will  have   no  sons  and  will  be  poor  and 
if  he  occupy  the  6th   house,  the   person   will  be  powerful 
and  be  subjugated  by  his  enemy  (a). 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  another  reading,  if  the  Sun  occupy 
the  6th  house  from  the  Ascendant,  the  person's  enemies 
will  meet  with  ruin.  According  to  Satyachariar,  such  a 
person  will  be  free  from  enemies,  diseases  and  grief;  but 
the  Text  has  the  support  of  Yavauachariar  and  Suchidhwa- 
ja. 


190  Briiiat  Jfitakd.  [CH.  XX. 

3.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Sun  occupy 
the  7th  house  from  the  Ascendant,  the  person  will  suffer 
disgrace  at  the  hands  of  women  ;  if  he  occupy  the  8th 
house,  the  person  will  have  very  few  sons  and  will  become 
blind  ;  if  he  occupy  the  9th  house,  the  person  will  have  sons, 
wealth  and  comfort  (a)  ;  if  he  occupy  the  10th  house,  the 
person  will  live  in  comfort  and  will  be  powerful  ;  if  he 
occupy  the  llth  house,  the  person  will  be  very  rich  and  if 
he  occupy  the  12th  house  he  will  become  an  apostate. 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  another  reading  a  person  born  with 
the  Sun  in  the  9th  house  will  have  neither  sons  nor  wealth. 
Accordingly,  Satyachariar  says  that  such  a  person  will  do 
wicked  deeds,  will  be  afflicted  with  diseases  and  will  attain 
an  humble  position  in  life. 

4?.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  the  Moon  occupy 
the  ascendant  such  person  will  become  dumb  or  mad  or 
an  idiot  or  blind  or  deaf;  he  will  do  mean  deeds  or  will 
become  a  slave  ;  if  the  rising  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon 
be  Cancer,  Aries  or  Taurus  the  person  will  be  rich,  will 
have  many  sons  or  will  be  wealthy  respectively.  If  the 
Moon  occupy  the  2nd  house  from  the  ascendant,  the  per- 
son will  be  a  man  of  a  large  family.  If  she  occupy  the  3rd 
house,  he  will  delight  in  torturing  animals.  If  she  occupy 
the  4th  or  the  5th  house,  he  wiil  be  in  the  full  enjoyment 
of  what  the  houses  signify  (a).  If  she  occupy  the  6th  house, 
the  person  will  have  numerous  enemies,  will  be  of  soft 
body,  will  have  a  dull  appetite,  will  be  sparing  in  sexual 
union,  will  be  cruel  and  will  be  slow  at  work. 

NOTES. 

(#)  That  is,  if  the  Moon  occupy  the  4th  house  from 
the  ascendant,  the  person  will  be  happy,  will  have  kins- 
men and  houses,  and  will  be  learned  ;  and  if  she  occupy 
the  5th  house,  the  person  will  possess  intelligence,  sons 
and  the  like. 


C  H.  XX.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  191 

5.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  the  7th 
house  from  the  ascendant,  the  person  will  be  jealous  of  the 
prosperity  of  other  men  and  will  be  lustful.     If  she  occupy 
the  8th  house,  the  person  will  be  fickle-minded  and  will 
be  afflicted  with  diseases.    If  she  occupy  the  9th  house,  the 
person  will  be  liked  by  all  and  will  have  sons,  friends, 
kinsmen  and   wealth.  If  she   occupy  the  10th  house,  he 
will  be  successful  in  all  places,  will  be  virtuous,  wealthy, 
intelligent  and  valorous.     If  she  occupy  the    llth  house, 
the  person   will   be  famous  and  will  gain  wealth  and  the 
like  and  if  she  occupy  the  12th  house  from  the  ascendant, 
the  person  will  be  wicked  and  of  defective  limbs. 

6.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person   Mars   occupy 
the  ascendant,  such  person  will  possess  a  wounded  body ; 
if  he  occupy  the  2nd  house,  the  person  will  eat  low  meals  ; 
if  he  occupy  the  9th  house,  the  person  will  be  a   sinner  ; 
and  if  he  occupy  the  remaining  houses  (a)  he  will  produce 
the  same  effects  as  the  Sun  in  those  places. 

Again,  if  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  Mercury 
occupy  the  Ascendant,  such  person  will  be  learned,  if 
he  occupy  the  2nd  house,  the  person  will  be  wealthy.  If 
he  occupy  the  3rd  house  the  person  will  be  very  wicked. 
If  he  occupy  the  4th  house,  the  person  will  be  learned. 
If  he  occupy  the  5th  house,  he  will  be  a  minister  under  a 
king ;  if  he  occupy  the  6th  house,  he  will  have  no  enemies. 
If  he  occupy  the  7th  house,  he  will  possess  a'  knowledge 
of  the  law.  If  he  occupy  the  8th  house,  the  person  will  be 
renowned  for  his  virtues.  If  he  occupy  the  9th,  10th, 
llth  and  12th  houses  he  will  produce  the  same  effects  as 
the  Sun  in  those  places. 

NOTES. 

(a)    That    is,   the  3rd,  4th,  5th,  6th,  7th,  8th,  10th, 
llth  and  12th  houses. 

7.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  Jupiter  occupy 
the  12  signs  from  the  Ascendant,  such  person  will  respec- 


192  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XX. 

tively  be  learned,  of  good  speech,  a  niggard,  will  live  in 
comfort,  will  be  intelligent,  will  have  no  enemies,  will 
possess  virtues  superior  to  those  of  his  father,  will  do 
deeds  unsuited  to  his  rank  in  life,  will  be  a  devotee,  will 
be  possessed  of  wealth,  will  be  full  of  gain  and  will  be 
wicked. 

8.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  cf  a  person  Venus  occupy 
the  ascendant,  such  pers6n  will  be  skilled  in  acts  of  love 
and  will  live  in  great  comfort  ;  if  Venus  occupy  the    7th 
house,   the  person  will  be  fond  of  quarrels  and  of  sexual 
union  ;  if  Venus  occupy  the  5th  house  the  person  will  live 
in  comfort  and  if  he  occupy  the  remaining  houses  (a)  the 
effects  will  be  the  same  as  those  of  Jupiter  in  those  places  ; 
but  if  Venus  occupy  sign  Pisces  at  the  time  of  birth,  the 
person  will  become  rich. 

NOTES. 

(«)     That  is  the  2nd,  3rd,  4th,  6th,   8th,   9th,    10th, 
llth  and  12th  houses. 

9.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  Saturn  occupy 
the  Ascendant,  such  person  will  be  poor,  will  be   afflicted 
with  diseases  and  sexual  passion,  will  be  dirty,  will  suffer 
much  from  diseases  while  young,  and  will  be  of  indistinct 
speech.  But  if  the  Ascendant  occupied  by  Saturn  be  Libra 
Sagittari,  Capricorn,  Aquarius  or  Pisces,  the  person   will 
be  as  happy  as  a  king,  will  rule  over  a  village  or  a   town, 
will  be  learned  and  will  possess  fine  limbs.     But  if  Saturn 
occupy  any  of  the  other  houses  (from  the  2nd  to  the  12th) 
the  effects  will  be  the  same  as  those   of  the   Sun   in    the 
same  places. 

10.  In  determining  the  effects  of  the  planets  in    the 
several  houses  from  the    Ascendant  the   nature  of  such 
houses  shall  be  taken  into  account,  that  is,    whether    the 
houses  occupied  by  the  several  planets  are   their  friendly 
signs  or  inimical  or  neutral  signs  or  their  own  houses   or 


CH.  XX. J  Brihat  Jdtakd.  193 

their  exaltation  signs  and  the  like  (a).  Again,  according 
to  Satyachariar,  benefic  planets  promote  the  Bhavas  while 
malefic  ones  reduce  them  ;  but  in  the  cases  of  the  6th,  8th 
and  12th  houses,  the  reverse  is  the  case  (£). 

(a)  According  to  Garga,  planets  in  their  exaltation, 
Moolatrikona,  Swakshetra  or  Friendly  signs  promote  the 
Bhavas  occupied  by  them ;  planets  in  their  inimical  or 
depression  signs  reduce  the  Bhavas  occupied  by  them  ; 
and  planets  in  ther  neutral  signs  neither  promote  nor 
reduce  the  Bhavas  occupied  by  them. 

(3)  That  is,  if  a  beuefic  pianet  occupy  the 
6th  house,  the  enemies  will  meet  with  ruin  and 
if  a  malefic  planet  occupy  it,  the  enemies  will  increase. 
Again,  if  a  benefic  planet  occupy  the  8th  house,  a  person 
will  be  freed  from  dangers  to  life  and  if  a  malefic  planet 
occupy  it,  danger  to  life  will  increase.  Lastly,  if  a  benefic 
planet  occupy  the  12th  house,  there  will  be  no  loss  to  the 
person  and  if  a  malefic  planet  occupy  it,  there  will  be  an 
increase  of  loss.  This  view  is  according  toSwalpa  Jataka. 

11.  If  the  planets  to  which  goad  effects  have  been 
assigned  occupy  their  exaltation  signs,  such  effects  will 
fully  come  to  pass.  If  they  occupy  their  Moolatrikona  (a) 
signs,  only  three-fourths  of  such  effects  will  come  to  pass  ; 
if  they  occupy  their  own  houses,  one-half  of  such  effects 
will  come  to  pass  ;  if  they  occupy  their  friendly  signs,  one- 
quarter  of  such  effects  will  come  to  pass  ;  if  they  occupy 
their  inimical  signs,  less  than  one-quarter  of  such  effects 
will  come  to  pass  and  if  the  planets  occupy  their  depression 
signs  or  if  they  happen  to  be  Astangata  planets  (b],  the 
good  effects  described  will  wholly  fail. 

NOTES. 

(a)     Vide  Stanza  14,  Ch.  I. 

(6)     Vide  Note  to  Stanza  2,  Ch.  VII. 

If  the  effects  be  bad,  then,  if  the  planets  occupy  their 


194  Brikat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXI. 

depression  signs  or  if  they  be  Astangata  planets,  the  evil 
effects  will  fully  come  to  pass.  If  they  occupy  ther  inimi- 
cal signs,  then  three-fourths ;  if  they  occupy  their  friendly 
signs,  then,  one-half;  if  they  occupy  their  own  signs,  then> 
one-quarter ;  if  they  occupy  their  MoolaTrikona  signs,  then 
less  than  a  quarter  of  the  evil  effects  will  come  to  pass. 
But  if  they  occupy  their  exaltation  signs,  the  evil  effects 
will  fail. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 
On  the  Planets  in  the  several  Vargas. 

If  a  single  planet  occupy  its  own  house  at  the  time 
of  birth  of  a  person  such  person  will  possess  the  average 
dignity  of  the  members  of  his  family ;  if  two  planets  occupy 
their  own  houses  the  person  will  be  an  important  member  of 
his  family  ;  if  three  planets  occupy  their  own  houses,  the 
person  will  be  respected  by  his  kinsmen  ;  if  four  planets 
occupy  their  own  houses,  the  person  will  be  rich  ;  if  five 
planets  do  so,  he  will  live1  in  comfort  ;  if  six,  he  will  live 
in  luxurious  ease  and.  as  happy  as  a  king  ;  and  if  seven 
planets  occupy  their  own  houses,  the  person  will  become 
a  king. 

Again,  if  one  of  the  planets  occupy  a  friendly  sign,  the 
person  will  lead  a  dependent  life;  if  two  planets  do  so,  he 
will  be  protected  by  his  friends  ;  if  three,  by  his  kinsmen  ; 
if  four,  by  his  brothers  and  cousins ;  if  five,  the  person  will 
be  a  master  over  many  people ;  if  six,  he  will  become  a  com- 
mander of  an  army  ;  and  if  seven,  he  will  become  a  king. 

2.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  a  single  planet 
occupy  its  exaltation  sign  and  be  aspected  by  a  friendly 
planet,  such  person  will  become  a  king;  if  at  the  time  of 
birth  one  of  the  planets  occupy  its  exaltation  sign  and  be 
accompanied  by  a  friendly  planet,  the  person  will  become 
very  rich  and  will  be  universally  respected  ;  if  at  the  time 
of  birth,  one  of  the  planets  occupy  either  an  inimical  or  a 


CH.  XXL]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  195 

depression  sign,  the  person  will  become  poor  ;  if  two  planets 
occupy  their  inimical  or  depression  signs,  the  person  will 
become  afflicted  with  grief.  If  three  planets  occupy  their 
inimical  or  depression  signs,  the  person  will  become  a  fool. 
If  four  planets  do  so,  the  person  will  become  afflicted  with 
diseases.  If  five  planets  do  so,  the  person  will  suffer  im- 
prisonment ;  if  six  planets,  the  person  will  be  a  victim  to 
much  grief  and  if  seven  planets  do  so,  he  will  subject  to 
torture  persons  who  ought  not  to  be  tortured. 

NOTES. 

Mercury  and  the  Sun  cannot  at  the  same  time  occupy 
their  depression  signs,  viz.,  Pisces  and  Libra  respectively. 
Seven  planets  cannot  therefore  occupy  their  depression 
signs  at  the  same  time.  In  this,  as  in  certain  other  cases 
already  stated,  the  Author  has  simply  quoted  the  views  of 
former  writers. 

3.  According  to   Satyacharya,   a  person  born   when 
Aquarius  is  the  rising  sign  will  not  be  happy  ;  but  accord- 
ing to  the  Yavanas,  a   person  born  when  Aquarius  is   the 
rising  Dwadasauisa  will  not  be  happy  («).  This  latter  view 
is  objected  to  by  Vishnugtipta   on  the  ground  that   each 
sign  of  the  Zodiac  contains  the   Dwadasamsa  of  Aquarius 
and  that  benefic  effects  have  been  ascribed  to  several  signs. 

NOTES. 

(a)    This  has  the  support  of  Srutakeerti. 

4.  A  person  born  when  malefic   planets    occupy  the 
Solar  floras  of  odd  signs  will  be  of  wide-spread  fame,  will 
do   important   deeds,   will  be   powerful,  wealthy   and  of 
bright  appearance.     A  person  born   when   benefic  planets 
occupy  the   Lunar   lioras  of  even  signs  will  be  of  gentle 
manners  and  of  bright  appearance;  will  live  in  comfort, 
will  be  liked  by   all;  will  be    intelligent   and    will  be   of 
sweet  speech. 


196  tirihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn. 

5.  If  the  floras  occupied  by  the  malefic   and  benefic 
planets  be  the  same  as   stated   above,  while  the  signs  are 
different,  (a)  the  person   will   be  all  that  has  been   stated 
above  for  the   two   yogas   in   a   moderate  degree  ;  but  if 
both  the  horas  and    signs  be  different  (&),  the  effects  will 
fail. 

NOTES. 

(0)  That  is,  if  the  malefic  planets  occupy  the  Solar 
horas  in  even  signs  orthe  benefic  planets  occupy  the  Lunar 
horas  in  odd  signs. 

(o)  That  is  if  the  malefic  planets  occupy  the  Lunar 
horas  of  the  even  signs  or  the  benefic  planets  occupy  the 
Solar  horas  of  odd  signs. 

KB. — Both  the  Author  and  Commentator  have  failed 
to  notice  the  case  of  a  person  born  when  the  malefic 
planets  occupy  the  Lunar  horas  of  odd  signs  orthe  benefic 
planets  occupy  the  Solar  horas  of  even  signs.  Evidently  a 
person  born  under  these  yogas  will  be  all  that  has  been 
stated  in  the  4th  stanza  in  a  moderate  degree. 

6.  A  person  born  when  the  Moon  occupies  either  her 
own  Drekkana  or  a  friendly    (a]  Drekkana  will  be  of  very 
fine  beauty  and   of  well-known   virtues  ;  but  if  the  Moon 
occupy  other  Drekkanas  the  person  will  be  what  has  been 
stated  above,  agreeably  to  the  character  of  the  lord  of  such 
Drekkana.  (£). 

If  at  the  time  of  birth  the  Moon  occupy  a  Vyala 
(serpent)  Drekkana  (c)  the  person  will  be  wicked  ;  if  she 
occupy  an  Ayudha  (weapon)  Drekkana  (d)  the  person  will 
do  deeds  of  torture  ;  if  she  occupy  a  Chatushpad 
(quadruped)  Drekkana  (e)  the  person  will  cohabit  with 
his  preceptor's  wife,  and  if  she  occupy  a  Pakshi  (bird) 
Drekkaua  (/)  the  person  will  be  of  wandering  habits. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Friendly  at  the  time  of  birth —  Vide  Chapter  II, 
Stanza  18. 


Cn.XXL]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  191? 

(I)  That  is,  if  such  lord  be  neutral  (at  the  time  of 
birth)  to  the  Moon,  the  person  will  be  what  has  been 
stated  in  a  moderate  degree  ;  but  if  he  be  inimical  to  the 
Moon,  the  effects  will  fail. 

(c)  Vyala  Drekkanas  :  These  are  the  2nd  Drekkana 
of  Cancer,  the  1st  of  Vrischika    and  the  3rd  of  Pisces. 

(d)  Ayudha  Drekkanas  :  These  are  the  1st  and  3rd 
Drekkanas  of  Aries,   the  2nd  of  Gemini,   the  1st  of  Leo, 
the  2nd  of  Libra  and  the  1st  of  Aquarius. 

(e)  Chatushpad    Drekkanas:   These     are   the   2nd 
Drekkaua  of  Aries,  the  2nd  and  3rd    of  Taurus,    the    1st 
of  Cancer,  the  3rd  of  Libra,  the  3rd  of  Scorpio    and   the 
1st  of  Sagittari. 

(/)  Pakshi  Drekkanas  :  These  are  2nd  Drekkana 
of  Aries,  the  2nd  of  Gemini,  the  1st  of  Leo  and  the  2nd 
of  Libra. 

If  the  Drekkanas  occupied  by  the  Moon  be  of  more 
than  one  character,  the  person  will  be  all  that  has  been 
stated  for  each  character. 

7.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  Navamsa  (a)  is 
that  of  Aries,  will  be  a  thief ;  when  it  is  that  of  Taurus, 
he  will  enjoy  away  his  earnings;  when  it  is  that  of 
Gemini,  the  person  will  be  learned  ;  when  it  is  that  of 
Cancer,  he  will  be  wealthy  ;  when  it  is  that  of  Leo,  he 
will  be  a  king ;  when  it  is  that  of  Virgo,  he  will  be 
hermaphrodite  ;  when  it  is  that  of  Libra,  he  will  be  bold 
in  fight;  when  it  is  that  of  Scorpio,  he  will  earn  his 
livelihood  by  carrying  loads ;  when  it  is  that  of  Sagittari, 
he  will  become  a  slave ;  when  it  is  that  of  Capricorn  he 
will  be  a  sinner  ;  when  it  is  that  of  Aquarius,  he  will  be 
wicked,  and  when  it  is  that  of  Pisces,  he  will  be  fearless. 

But  if  the  rising  Navamsa  be  at  the  same  time  a 
Vargottama  Navamsa  (b)  the  person  born  will  be  the  chief 
of  the  respective  classes  of  persons  mentioned  (c}. 


198  tirihat  Jatakd.  [Cn.  XXI. 

The  rising  Dwadasamsas  produce  the  same  effects 
as  if  they  were  the  rising  signs  (d). 

NOTES. 

(a)  These  Navamsas  of  Aries,  Taurus,  Gemini,  &c., 
are  Navamsas  other  than  those  of  the  respective  signs 
Aries,  Taurus,  Gemini,  &c.  In  other  words,  Vargottama 
Navamsas  excepted. 

(3)    That  is,  the  Navamsas  excluded  in  note  (a). 

(c)  For  instance,   the   person  will   be   a   chief  of 
thieves,  &c. 

(d)  Vide  Stanza  20,  Ch.  XVIII,  and  Vide  Ch.  XVII. 

8.  A   person   born   when  Mars   occupies    his   own 
Triinsamsa  will  be  a  married  man,  will  be  powerful,  will 
wear  ornaments,   will  be   generous,   will   be   of   bright 
appearance  and  will  thoughtlessly  engage  in  work. 

A  person  born  when  Saturn  occupies  his  own  Triui- 
samsa  will  be  afflicted  with  diseases ;  his  wife  will  die 
before  him,  he  will  be  wicked,  will  covet  the  wives  of 
other  men,  will  be  afflicted  with  grief,  will  have  a  house, 
clothes,  attendants  and  the  like  and  will  be  dirty. 

9.  A  person  born  when  Jupiter  occupies   his    own 
Triinsamsa  will  be   rich,  famous,   happy,   intelligent,  of 
bright-  appearance,     universally    respected,    free   from 
diseases,  of  active  habits  and  will  live  in  luxury. 

A  person  born  when  Mercury  occupies  his  own 
Trimsamsa  will  be  intelligent  and  learned  in  the  fine 
arts;  will  be  a  fop,  a  literary  author,  of  distinct  speech, 
will  be  skilled  in  carpentry  and  the  like,  will  follow  the 
rules  of  life  laid  down  by  sages,  will  commence  bold 
projects  and  will  be  much  respected. 

10.  A  person  born  when  Venus   occupies   his   own 
Trimsamsa  will  have  many  sons,  will  live  in  great  com- 
fort, will  be  free  from  diseases,  will  be  liked  by  all  (a)   will 


CH.  XXII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd. 

be  rich,  beautiful,  wicked,  of  fair  body  and  will  enjoy  many 
women. 

A  person  born  when  the  Trhnsamsa  of  Mars  is  occu- 
pied by  the  Sun,  will  be  bold  in  fight  and  when  it  is 
occupied  by  the  Moon,  he  will  be  slow  at  work. 

A  person  born  when  the  Trimsamsa  of  Saturn  is 
occupied  by  the  Sun  will  be  wicked  and  when,  it  is  occu- 
pied by  the  Moon,  he  will  indulge  in  acts  of  torture. 

A  person  born  when  the  Trimsamsa  of  Jupiter  is 
occupied  by  the  Sun  will  be  of  good  disposition  and 
when  it  is  occupied  by  the  Moon,  the  person  will  become 
rich. 

A  person  born  when  the  Trimsamsa  of  Mercury  is 
occupied  by  the  Sun  will  live  in  comfort  and  when  it  is 
occupied  by  the  Moon,  the  person  will  be  learned. 

A  person  born  when  the  Trimsamsa  of  Venus  is  occu- 
pied by  the  Sun,  will  possess  a  fine  body  and  when  it  is 
occupied  by  the  Moon,  he  will  be  liked  by  the  people. 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  another  reading,  he  will  have  a 
wife. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 
On  Miscellaneous  Yogas. 

1.  Planets  occupying  their  own  signs  or  their  exal- 
tation or  Moolatrikona  signs  are  said  to  be  Karaka  planets 
to  one  another,  if,  at  the  same  time  they  occupy  the  Ken- 
dras  from  the  Ascendant.  In  the  above  case,  a  planet 
occupying  the  10th  house  from  another  planet  is  said  to 
be  the  special  Karaka  of  that  planet. 

NOTES. 

In  this  and  in  the  next  two  stanzas,  the  term  "  Karaka 
(helping)  planets  "  is  defined, 


200  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXII.. 

2.  Accordingly,  if  the  rising  sign  be  Cancer  and  the 
Moon  occupy  it  and  if  Mars,  Saturn,  the  Sun  and  Jupiter 
occupy  their  exaltation  signs,  these  four  planets  are 
known  as  Karaka  planets  to  one  another  (a)  Again,  to  a 
planet  occupying  the  rising  sign  all  planets  (b)  occupy- 
ing the  10th  or  the  4th  house  are  Karaka  planets  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  In   other  words,  Jupiter  occupies  sign    Cancer 
which  is  at  the  same  time  the  rising  sign,  Saturn  occupies 
the  4th   house   Libra,  Mars  the  7th  house  Capricorn  and 
the  Sun  the  10th  house  Aries.     The  Commentator  infers 
from  this  stanza  that  planets  occupying  their  Swakshetra, 
Ucha  and   Mulatrikona   signs   are  also  mutually  Karaka 
planets,  if  they   occupy   Kendra  signs  from  one  another 
though  not  the  Kendra  signs  from  the  Ascendant. 

(b)  A II  the  planets  whether  they  occupy  their  own 
signs,  their  exaltation  signs  or  their  Mulatrikona  signs  or 
not,  according  to  the  Commentator. 

(c)  That  is,  the   reverse   does   not   hold.     In  other 
words,   the  planet  occupying  the  Ascendant  is  not  a  Ka- 
raka planet  of  those  occupying  the  4th  or  the  10th  house. 

3.  A  planet  occupying  its  Mulatrikona  and  exaltation 
sign  (a]  is  also  said  to  be  a  Karaka  planet  to  one  that 
occupies  the  10th  house  (£)  from  such  sign,  and  to  the 
latter,  his  Atimitra  planet  is  also  said  to  be  a  Karaka  planet. 

NOTES. 

(a)  But  not  occupying  the  Kendra  houses  from  the 
Ascendant. 

(b)  This  latter  planet   must  be  in  his  Swakshetra, 
Mulatrikona  or  exaltation  house.     The  effects  of  the  Ka- 
raka   planets  are   described  in  Varaha  Mihira's  work  on 
Yoga  Yatra  in  which  it  is  stated  that  when  a  prince  loses 
his  kingdom,  he   recovers   it  in  the  Autardasa  period  of  a 


CH.  XXII]  BriJiat  Jdtakd.  201 

Karaka  planet  ;  again,  it  is  there  said  that  a  man  enjoys 
comfort,  wealth  and  success  when  the  Moon  passes  through 
the  house  of  a  Karaka  planet,  or  through  the  2nd  house 
from  that  occupied  by  the  Sun.  Also,  that  the  journey 
may  be  a  successful  one,  it  shall  be  commenced  when 
the  Moon  occupies  either  of  the  two  places  mentioned 
above  ;  otherwise,  the  traveller  will  receive  blows  on  his 
way. 

4-.  A  person  born  when  the  rising  Navamsa  is  a 
Vargottamaoneor  when  the  Moon  occupies  a  Vargottama 
position  will  be  happy  and  prosperous.  The  same  remark 
applies  to  a  person  at  the  time  of  whose  birth  the  2nd 
house  from  the  Sun  may  be  occupied  by  benefic  planets 
(a)  or  the  Kendra  houses  may  happen  to  be  occupied  by  no 
planets  at  all  (b).  Also,  a  person  at  the  time  of  whose  birth 
there  are  Karaka  planets  occupying  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac 
will  be  happy  and  prosperous. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Mercury,  Jupiter  or  Venus  according  to  the 
Commentator. 

(3)  If  one  of  the  Kendras  be  occupied  the  person 
will  be  happy  ;  if  two  or  more  be  occupied  he  will  be  hap- 
pier still,  and  if  the  planets  be  benefic  the  person  will  be 
exceedingly  happy  and  prosperous. 

5.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  Jupiter,  or  the 
lord  of  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon,  or  the  lord  of  the 
Ascendant  occupy  a  Kendra  house,  such  person  will  be 
happy  when  in  his  mmhood.  Again,  if  at  the  time  of 
commencement  of  a  dasa  period  the  lord  of  such  period 
happy  to  occupy  a  Prishtodaya  sign,  he  will  produce  his 
effects  (a)  at  the  end  of  the  period.  If  such  lord  occupy  a 
Sirodaya  sign  he  will  produce  his  effects  at  the  commence- 
ment of  the  period  and  if  he  occupy  a  Sira-Prishtodaya 
sign,  the  eiRcts  will  be  felt  in  the  middle  of  the  period. 
26 


202  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXIII. 

NOTES. 

(«)    Whether  benefic  or  malefic. 

The  Dasa  period  is  to  be  divided  into  three  equal 
parts  ;  and  the  Sirodaya,  Prishtodaya  and  Siraprishtodaya 
signs  are  defined  in  Stanza  10  of  Chapter  I. 

6.  The  Sun  and  Mars  produce  their  effects  (a)  imme- 
diately after  entering  a  sign  ;  Jupiter  and  Venus  when 
passing  through  the  middle  of  a  sign  ;  Saturn  and  the 
Moon  before  quitting  a  sign  and  Mercury  throughout  his 
course. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Both  benefic  and  malefic. 

The  sign  must  be  supposed  to  be  divided  into  three 
equal  parts  of  10  degrees  each. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 
On  Malefic  Yogas. 

1.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  the  5th  and  7th 
houses  from  the  Ascendant  or  from  the  Moon  be  either 
occupied  or  aspected  by  benefic  planets  or  by  their  lords, 
such  person  will  have  respectively  sons  (a)  and  a  wife- 
otherwise,  (b)  he  will  not  have  either  the  one  or  the  other. 
If  Virgo  be  the  rising  sign  and  if  the  Sun  occupy  it,  the 
person  will  lose  his  wife  provided  Saturn  occupies  sign 
Pisces  at  the  same  time  and  will  lose  his  sons  if  Mars 
occupysigu  Capricorn  at  the  same  time. 

NOTES. 

(a)  One  of  12  sorts  of  sons  (1)  Ourasa,  (2)  Kshetraja, 
(3)  Datta,  (4)  Kritrima,  (5)  Adhamaprabhava,  (6)  Gudhot- 
panna,    (7)    Apaviddhi,    (8)  Pounarbhava,  (9)    Kanecna, 
(10)  Sahodha,  (11)  Kreeta  and  (12)  Dasiprabhava. 

(b)  That  is  if  the  5th  and   7th  houses  from   the  As- 
cendant or  the  Moon  be  not  occupied  or  aspected  by  beue- 


CH.  XXIII]  Brihat  Jdtaka.  203 

fie  planets  or  by  the  lords  of  the  houses. 

If  the  Moon  and  Saturn  occupy  the  7th  house  a  per- 
son's wife  will  quit  him  and  marry  another. 

If  the  7th  house  be  aspected  by  the  Moon  and  Saturn, 
the  number  of  wives  of  a  person  will  be  the  number  repre- 
sented by  the  Navamsa  occupied  by  the  lord  of  the  7th 
house  counting  from  the  Navamsa  of  Aries. 

If  Jupiter  or  the  Moon  and  Venus  occupy  the  7th 
house  and  the  Navamsa  of  the  Sun  or  Mars,  the  person 
will  have  a  single  wife ;  but  if  the  7th  house  be  aspected 
by  the  Moon  and  Venus,  the  person  will  have  several 
wives. 

2.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  three  malefic 
planets  (a)  occupy  the  4th  and  8th  houses  from  Venus  or 
if  two  malefic  planets  be  on  both  sides  of  Venus,  one  on 
each  side  (b)  or  if  Venus  be  not  accompanied  or  aspected 
by  benefic  planets  the  person's  wife  will  die  by  fire,  by 
fall  or  by  ropes  respectively  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  Sun,  Mars  and  Saturn. 

(b)  Either  in  the  same  sign   occupied  by  Venus  or 
in  the  next  sign  before  or  behind. 

(c)  During  the  life  time  of  her  husband. 
Provided,  in  the  first  Yoga,  Venus  at   the  same  time 

occupies  an  Agui  (fiery)  Drekkana,  in  the  second  a 
Nipata  (falling)  Drekkana  and  in  the  third  a  Pasa 
(rope)  Drekkana—  Vide  Chapter  XXVII  (On  the  Drek- 
kanas.) 

3.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  one  of  the  two 
houses,  the  12th  and  the  6th,  from  the  Ascendant  be  occu- 
pied by  the  Sun  and  the  other  by  the  Moon,  the  person 
and  his  wife  will  each  have  a  single  eye.  Again,  if  Venus 
and  the  Sun  (a)  occupy  one  of  the  three  houses  the  7th, 


204  Brihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XXlIi. 

the  9th  and  the    5th  from   the   Ascendant,   the   person's 
wife  will  be  of  defective  limbs. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Venus  or  the  Sun  according  to  some.  This  is 
opposed  to  Garga  whom  the  Commentator  quotes. 

4.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  Saturn  occupy 
the  rising  sign   (a)   and    if  Venus   occupy    the   Chakra- 
sandhi  Navamsas  and  the  7th    house,    the    person's    wife 
will  be  barren  (6)  provided  the  5th  house  is  not  occupied 
by  benefic  planets.     Again,  if  the  malefic  planets    occupy 
the  12th  and  the  7th  houses  and   the  Ascendant    (c]    and 
the  waning   Moon  occupy  the  5th  house,  the  person   will 
have  neither  wife  nor  sons. 

NOTES. 

(#)  It  is  clear  that  the  rising  sign  must  be  Taurus  or 
Virgo  or  Capricorn  in  which  case  the  7th  house  will 
respectively  be  Scorpio,  Pisces  and  Cancer  and  the  last 
Navamsas  of  these  three  houses  are  known  as  Chakra- 
sandhis  or  Rikshasandhis  (Vide  Stanza  7,  Ch.  I.) 

(£)  If  the  person  marry  again,  he  may  get  sons 
according  to  some. 

(c)  All  the  three  houses  or  any  two  houses  or  any 
one  house  according  to  the  Commentator. 

5.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  Venus  occupy 
the  7th  house  from  the  Ascendant  and  be   in  the  varga 
(division)  of  Saturn  or  Mars  and  be  aspected   by   Saturn 
or   Mars,  the  person   will   commit   adultery.     Again,  if 
when  Venus  occupies  the  varga  of  Saturn  or  Mars  and  is 
aspected  by  Saturn  or  Mars,  the  Moon,  Saturn  and  Mars 
occupy  the  7th  house  from  the  Ascendant,  both  the  man 
and   his   wife    will   commit   adultery.     Again,   if  when 
Venus  occupies  the  varga  of  Saturn  or  Mars  and  is  aspect- 
ed by  Saturn  or  when  Mars  occupy  the  7th  house  from 


CH.  XXIIi.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  205 

the  Ascendant,  both  the  man  and  his  wife  will  commit 
adultery.  Again,  if  when  Venus  and  the  Moon  occupy 
a  sign,  Saturn  and  Mars  occupy  the  7th  house  from  the 
Ascendant,  the  person  will  have  neither  wife  nor  sons. 
Again,  if  when  male  and  female  planets  occupy  a  sign, 
Saturn,  Mars  occupy  the  7th  house  from  the  Ascendant 
and  be  aspected  by  benefic  planets,  the  person's  wife  will 
be  of  advanced  age  and  the  man  will  marry  late  in  life. 

6.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth   of  a   person,  the  Moon 
occupy  tlie  10th  house,    Venus   the   7th   house   and  the 
malefic  planets  («Jthe  4th  house,  such  a  person  will  des- 
troy his  family.  (6)  If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  Saturn  occupy 
a  Kendra  house  and  aspect  a  sign,  the  Drekkana  of  whose 
lord  may  be   occupied  by  Mercury,   the   person   will   be- 
come a  painter.     If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  Venus  occupy 
the  1 2th  house  from  the  Ascendant   and  the  Navamsa  of 
Saturn,  the  person  will  be  the  son  of  a   serving  woman  ; 
and  if  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon,  occupy 
the  7th  house   and  be  aspected   by   Saturn,  the   person 
will  do  deeds  unsuited  to  his  rank  in  life. 

NOTES. 

(a)    These  are  the  Sun,  Mars  and  Saturn. 

(6)  The  family  will  become  extinct  with  him.  The 
Commentator  instances  the  case  of  the  Kuru  prince, 
Duryodhana. 

7.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,   Venus   and 
Mars  occupy  the  7th  house  from  the  Ascendant   and   be 
aspected  by  malefic  planets  such  person  will  be    afflicted 
with  swelling  illness  (a).   If,  at  the  time  of  birth    of  a 
person,  the  Moon  occupy  the  Navamsa  of  Cancer  or  Scor- 
pio and  be  accompanied  by   malefic   planets,   the  person 
will  be  afflicted  with  diseases  of  the  genital  organ.     If,  at 
the  time  of  birth,  the  Moon  occupy  the  Ascendant,  Saturn 
andMars  occupy  the  12th  and  2nd  houses  and  the  Sun 


206  Brihat  JdtakCi.  [Cn.  XXIII. 

the  7th  house,  the  person  will  be  afflicted  with  white 
leprosy.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Moon 
occupy  the  10th  house  from  the  Ascendant,  Mars  the 
7th  house  and  Saturn  the  2nd  house  from  the  Sun,  such 
person  will  be  of  defective  limbs. 

NOTES. 
(a)     Such  as  elephantiasis  and  the  like. 

8.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth   of  a   person,   the   Moon 
occupy  a  place  between  Saturn   and  Mars  and   the    Sun 
occupy   sign  Capricorn,  such  person  will  be  afflicted  with 
asthma,  consumption,  the  diseases  of  the  spleen  or  internal 
abscess;  and  if  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon 
occupy   each   the 'sign   or   the  Navamsa  of  the  other,  the 
person  will  be  afflicted  with  pulmonary  consumption,  and 
if  the  Sun  and  the  Moon  occupy  together    either   Cancer 
or  lyeo,  the  person  will  be  reduced  to  a  skeleton. 

9,  If,  at  the  time  of  birth   of  a  person,   the  Moon 
occupy  the  5th  Navamsa  of  Sagittari  (a)  or  the  Navatnsa 
of  Pisces,   Cancer,    Capricorn,   or  Aries  (b}}  and  be  either 
accompanied  or  aspected  by  Saturn  or  Mars,  such  person 
will  be  afflicted  with  leprosy  (c).    Again,  if  the  5th  or  the 
9th  house  from  the  Ascendant  be   sign  Scorpio,    Cance^ 
Taurus,  or  Capricorn  and  be  either  occupied  or  aspected  by 
Saturn  and  Mars,  the  person   will   also  be     afflicted  with 
leprosy  (<aQ. 

NOTES. 

(a)    That  is  the  Navamsa  of  L,eo  in  sign  Sagittari. 

(&)    These  may  be  Navamsas  of  any  sign. 

6?)  According  to  Yavanacharya,  if  the  Moon  be 
aspected  by  benefic  planets  also  at  the  same  time,  the 
person  will  be  of  disfigured  body  resulting  from  scratching. 

(d)  In  other  words,  the  rising  sign  must  be  one  of 
the  triangular  signs  (1)  Vrishabha,  Kanya,  Makara  or  (2) 
Kataka  Vrischika,  Meeua. 


CH.  XXIII]  Brihat  Mtaka.  207 

10.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Sun,    the 
Moon,  Mars  and  Saturn  occupy  the  8th,  6th,  2nd  and  12th 
houses  in  any  way,   such   person   will   become  blind  by 
causes   pertaining    to   the   most   powerful  of    the    four 
planets  (a). 

NOTES. 

(a)  It  the  powerful  planet  be  the  Moon,  blindness 
will  be  caused  by  phlegmatic  affections.  If  such  planet 
be  Mars,  it  will  be  caused  by  bilious  affections  ;  if  it  be  the 
Sun,  then  by  heat  or  wood  ;  and  if  it  be  Saturn,  it  will  be 
caused  by  windy  affections,  by  stones  and  like. 

11.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,   the   malefic 
planets  (#)  occupy  the  9th,  llth,  3rd  and  5th  houses   and 
be  not  aspected   by   benefic  planets,   such   person  will 
become   deaf  by   causes   pertaining  to  the  most  powerful 
planet  ;  if  such  malefic  planets  occupy  the  7th  house  from 
the  Ascendant,  (6)  the  person  will  be  of  deformed  teeth. 

NOTES. 

(a)     The  Sun,  the  Moon,  Mars  and  Saturn. 
(t>)     And  not  aspected  by  benefic  planets. 

12.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the   eclipsed 
Moon,  occupy    the   rising  sign,   and  if  Saturn  and  Mars 
occupy  the  5th  and  9th  houses  from  the  Ascendant   such 
person  will  be  subject  to  the  influence  of   ghosts.     Again, 
if,  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  eclipsed  Sun  occupy  the  rising 
sign  and  if  Saturn  and   Mars  occupy  the   5th   and   9th 
houses  from  the  Ascendant,  the  person  will  lose  his  eyes. 

13.  If,  at  the  time   of  birth   of  a  person,    Saturn 
occupy  the  7th   house  and  Jupiter   the   Ascendant,   such 
person  will  be  afflicted  with  windy  complaints.     If,  at  the 
time  of  birth,  (1)  Mars  occupy  the  7th  house  and  Jupiter 
the  Ascendant,  or  (2),  Saturn   occupy  the  Ascendant    and 
Mars  occupy  the  5th,    7th  or  the  9th   house,  or   (3),  the 


208  Brihat  JAtakd.  [Cn.  XXIII. 

waning    Moon   and  Saturn    occupy   the  12tli    house,  the 
person  will  become  insane  or  an  idiot. 

14.  If,  at   the  time   of  birth  of  a  person,  one  of   the 
four  planets— the  lord  of  the  Navamsa   occupied  by  the 
Moon,   the    Sun,    the   Moon,  and   Jupiter — occupy   the 
Navarnsa   of  the  lord  of  its  depression  sign  or  an  inimical 
Navamsa,  such  person  will  serve  under  other  men  for  his 
livelihood  ;  if  two  of  the  four  planets   occupy   either    the 
one  Navamsa  or  the  other,  he  will  become  a  slave  ;  and  if 
three   of  the   planets   or   all    the    four   occupy    the    one 
Navamsa  or  the  other,   the   person   will  be  the  son  of  a 
slave. 

15.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a   person,  the   rising 
sign  be  Taurus,  Aries  or  Sagittari    and  if  malefic  planets 
aspect  it,  such  person  will  have  ugly  teeth  ;  if,  at  the  time 
of  birth,  one  of  the  malefic   signs  (a)   or  sign    Sagittaii  or 
sign  Taurus  be  the  rising  sign  and  if  such   sign  be  aspec- 
ted  by  malefic  planets,  the  person  will  be   bald-headed  ;  if 
the  Sun  occupy  the  9th  or  the  5th  house  from  the  Ascen- 
dant and  if  he  be  aspected  by  malefic  planets,  the   person 
will  be   of  weak   sight  ;  if,    at  the   time  of  birth,  Saturn 
occupy  the   5th  or    the  9th    house    and    be   aspected  by 
malefic  planets,  the  person  will  be   afflicted  with    various 
diseases  ;  and  if  at  the  time  of  birth,  Mars  occupy  the  5th 
or  the  9th  house  and  be  aspected   by  malefic    planets,  the 
person  will  be  of  defective  limbs. 

NOTES. 

(#)     These    are    the  signs  of  Aries,  Leo,   Scorpio, 
Capricorn  and  Aquarius. 

16.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the    mnlefic 
planets  occupy  the  12th,  oth,  2nd,  and  9th  houses  in  any 
way,  such  person  will  suffer  imprisonment  and  restraint  of 
the  nature  of  the  rising  sign  (a).     A<;ain,  if,  at  the  time  of 
birth,  the  rising   Drekkana  be   either  a  Sarpa  (b)    (snake) 


CH.  XXtIL]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  209 

Drekkana  or  a  Pasa  (c)  (rope)  Drekkana  and  if  the  sign 
(d)  represented  by  its  lord  be  powerful  and  be  aspected 
by  a  malefic  planet  the  person  will  also  suffer  imprison- 
ment of  the  nature  of  such  sign. 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  the  rising  sign  be  Aries,  Taurus  or  Sagittari, 
the  person  will  be  bound  with  ropes.  If  the  rising  sign  be 
Gemini,  Virgo,  L,ibra  or  Aquarius,  he  will  be  loaded  with 
fetters.  If  the  rising  sign  be  Cancer,  Capricorn  or  Pisces, 
the  person  will  be  shut  up  in  a  fortress  but  will  be  taken 
care  of.  If  the  rising  sign  be  Scorpio,  the  person  will  be 
kept  in  a  subterranean  cellar. 

(fe)  Bhujaga  Drekkanas  :  These  are  the  first  Drek- 
kana of  Cancer,  the  1st  and  2nd  of  Scorpio,  and  the  3rd  of 
Pisces. 

(c)  Nigala  Drekkana  :     This  is  the   1st   Drekkana 
of  Capricorn. 

(d)  That  is,   if  the   rising   Drekkaua  be   the   first 
Drekkana  of  Cancer,  for  instance,  the  lord  of  such   Drek- 
kana is  the  Moon  whose  sign,  again,  is  Cancer.  If  the  rising 
Drekkana  be   the   2nd   Drekkana  of  Cancer,   its   lord  is 
Mars  whose  sign  is  Scorpio  and  if  it  be  the  3rd  Drekkana 
of  Cancer,  the  lord   of  such    Drekkana   is  Jupiter   whose 
sign  is  Pisces. 

17.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Moon  be 
accompanied  by  Saturn,  aspected  by  Mars  and  be 
surrounded  by  a  halo,  such  a  person  will  be  a  man  of  harsh 
speech,  will  be  afflicted  with  epilepsy  and  with  consump- 
tion (a). 

If,  at  the  time  of  birth,  the  Sun,  Saturn  and  Mars 
occupy  the  10th  house  from  the  Ascendant  and  if  they  be 
not  aspected  by  benefic  planets,  the  person  will  be  a 
servant  of  varying  rank — dignified,  of  moderate  rank  and 
of  a  low  rank  (£). 
27 


210  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXIV. 

NOTES. 

(a)  If  the  Moon  be  subject  to  the  first  of  the  three 
malefic  Yogas,  the  person  will  be  a  man  of  harsh  speech  ; 
if  she  be  subject  to  the  2nd  Yoga,  the  person  will  be 
afflicted  with  epilepsy  ;  and  if  to  the  3rd  Yoga,  the 
person  will  be  afflicted  with  consumption. 

(6)  If  one  of  three  planets  occupy  the  10th  house 
the  person  will  be  a  dignified  servant.  If  two  planets 
occupy  the  10th  house  he  will  be  a  servant  of  middle 
rank  and  if  three  occupy  the  10th  house  he  will  be  a 
servant  of  low  rank. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 
On  the  Horoscopy  of  Women. 

1.  The  same  remarks  apply  to  the  horoscopy  of  women 
as  to  the   horoscopy   of  men  ;  but  the   effects  which  are 
suitable  will  alone  affect  women   and    the  rest  will  affect 
their  husbands.  According  to  some,  all  the  effects  (a)  will 
affect  the  husband.     The  death  of  the  husband   shall  be 
determined  from  the  8th  house  (from  the  Ascendant)  in  the 
horoscope  of  a  woman.     Matters  connected  with  the  phy- 
sique of  a  woman  shall  be   determined    from   the   rising 
sign  and  the  sign  occupied    by    the   Moon   and    matters 
connected  with  her  fortune  and   her  husband   shall   be 
determined  from  the  7th  house. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Effects  which  can  be  enjoyed  by  both  will 
affect  both.  Such  effects  as  high  appointments  in  the 
state  will  affect  the  husband  and  matters  connected  with 
the  body  will  affect  the  woman  only.  Hence  the  advis- 
ability of  a  man  marrying  a  girl  born  under  excellent 
planetary  Yogas. 

2.  If  the  rising  sign  and  the  sign  occupied  by  the 


CH.  XXIV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  211 

Moon  be  even  signs  the  woman  will  be  of  a  true 
feminine  character  and  if  such  signs  be  aspected  by 
benefic  planets  she  will  be  virtuous  and  modest  and  will 
wear  ornaments,  (a)  But  if  such  signs  be  odd,  the 
woman  will  possess  a  masculine  shape  and  will  be  of  a 
masculine  character  ;  and  if  they  be  either  occupied  or 
aspected  by  malefic  planets  she  will  be  wicked  and 
will  possess  few  virtues  (b\ 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  some,   virtues   will  be   her  •orna- 
ments. 

(b)  If  either  the  rising   sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by 
the  Moon  be  odd  or  even,  while  the  other  sign  is  even  or 
odd,  the  woman  will  partake  of  the  character  of  a  male 
and  a  female.     A  similar  remark  applies  when  one  of  the 
signs  is  occupied  or   aspected  by  a  malefic  or   a   benefic 
planet  and  the  other  by  a  benefic  or  a  malefic  planet. 

3.  When  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by  the 
Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  either  Aries  or 
Scorpio,  if  the  rising  Trimsarnsa  or  the  Trimsamsa  occu- 
pied by  the  Moon  be  that  of  Mars,  she  will    become  un- 
chaste before  marriage  ;  if  it  be  that  of   Saturn,  she  will 
lead  a  life  of  servitude.     If  it  be  that  of  Jupiter,  she   will 
be  chaste ;  if  it  be  that  of  Mercury,   she  will  be  deceitful  ; 
and  if  it  be  that  of  Venus,  she  will  be  of  bad  character. 

4.  When 'the  rising  sign'or. the    sign    occupied   by 
the  Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  either  Taurus 
or  Libra,  if  the   rising   Trimsamsa    or    the  Trimsamsa 
occupied  by  the  Moon  be  that  of  Ma'rs,  she  will  be  of  bad 
conduct  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Saturn,  she  will  marry  a  second 
time  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Jupiter,  she  will  possess  good  quali- 
ties ;  if  it  be  that  of  Mercury,  she  will  be  skilled  in  music 
and  dance  ;  and  if  it  be  that  of  Venus,  she  will  possess  all 
good  qualities  and  will  be  of  wide-spread  fame.      Again 


212  Srihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XXIV. 

when  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon 
at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  either  Gemini  or 
Virgo,  if  the  rising  Trimsarnsa  or  the  Trimsanisa  occupied 
by  the  Moon  be  that  of  Mars,  she  will  be  deceitful ;  if  it  be 
that  of  Saturn,  she  will  partake  of  the  nature  of  a  her- 
maphrodite ;  if  it  be  that  of  Jupiter,  she  will  be  chaste  ; 
if  it  be  that  of  Mercury,  she  will  possess  many  good 
qualities  ;  and  if  it  be  that  of  Venus,  she  will,  out  of  lust, 
commit  adultery. 

5.  When  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by 
the  Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  Cancer,  if 
the  rising  Trimsanisa  or  the  Trirnsamsa  occupied  by  the 
Moon  be  that  of  Mars,  she  will  be  of  an  independent  nature ; 
if  it  be  that  of  Saturn,  she  will  murder  h  er  husband  ;  if  it 
be  that  of  Jupiter,  she  will  possess  many  good  qualities ; 
if  it  be  that  of  Mercury,  she  will  be  skilled  in  works  of 
art;  and  if  it  be  that  of  Venus,  she  will  be  of  bad  character. 

When  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by  the 
Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  Leo,  if  the  ri- 
sing Trimsamsa  or  the  Trirnsamsa  occupied  by  the  Moon 
be  that  of  Mars,  she  will  be  of  a  masculine  nature  (a).  If 
it  be  that  of  Saturn,  she  will  commit  adultery ;  if  it  be  that 
of  Jupiter,  she  will  be  the  wife  of  a  king ;  if  it  be  that  of 
Mercury,  she  will  be  of  a  masculine  nature  ;  and  if  it  be 
that  of  Venus,  she  will  commit  adultery  with  a  person  of 
low  caste. 

When  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by  the 
Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  either  Sagittari  or 
Pisces,  if  the  rising  Trimsamsa  or  the  Trimsamsa  occupied 
by  the  Moon  be  that  of  Mars,  she  will  possess  many  good 
qualities ;  if  it  be  that  of  Saturn,  she  will  not  indulge 
much  in  sexual  union  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Jupiter,  she  will 
possess  many  good  qualities  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Mercury,  she 
will  be  a  woman  of  knowledge  ;  and  if  it  be  that  of 
Venus,  she  will  not  be  chaste. 


CH.  XXIV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  213 

When  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon 
at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  is  either  Capricorn  or  Aqua- 
rius, if  the  rising  Trimsamsa  or  the  Trimsanisa  occupied 
by  the  Moon  be  that  of  Mars,  she  will  lead  a  life  of  servi- 
tude ;  if  it  be  that  of  Saturn,  she  will  join  a  person  of  low 
caste  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Jupiter,  she  will  be  attached  to  her 
husband  ;  if  it  be  that  of  Mercury,  she  will  be  wicked  ; 
and  if  it  be  that  of  Venus,  she  will  be  barren. 

NOTES. 

(a)     Talkative,  according  to  some  other  reading. 

6.  The  effects  described  for  the  rising  Trimsamsa  or 
those  described  for  the  Trimsamsa  occupied  by  the  Moon 
will  come  to  pass  according  as  the  rising  sign  or  the  sign 
occupied  by  the  Moon  is  more  powerful  than  the  other. 

7.  If  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman,   Saturn  and 
Venus  occupy   each   other's  Navamsa   and  aspect  each 
other,  or,  if  the  rising  sign  be  either  Taurus  or  Libra  and 
the  rising  Navamsa  be  that  of  Aquarius,  the  woman  will 
quench  the  poisonous  fire  of  her  strong  lustful  desires  by 
means  of  other  women  assuming  a  masculine  character. 

8.  If,  at  the  time   of  birth  of  a  woman,  the    7th 
house  from  the  rising  sign  or  from  the  sign  occupied  by 
the  Moon  be  not  occupied  by  planets,  and  if  such  house  be 
weak  and  not  aspected  (a)  by  benefic  planets,  the  husband 
of  the  woman  will   be  wicked ;  if  such  7th  house  be  occu- 
pied by  Mercury  or  Saturn  the  husband  will  be  impotent ; 
if  such    7th  house   be  in   a   movable  sign,  the  husband 
will  be  travelling  in  foreign   lands  ;    (b)  if  such  7th  house 
be  occupied  by  the  Sun,  the  woman  will  be  rejected  by  her 
husband  ;  if  it   be  occupied    by   Mars   and  aspected   by 
malefic  planets,  she  will   become   a  widow  while  young  ; 
and  if  it  be  occupied   by  Saturn   and  aspected  by   malefic 
planets,  she  will  remain  unmarried  to  an  old  age. 


214  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  [CH.  XXIV- 

* 

NOTES. 

(a)     Or  occupied,  acccrding  to  the  Commentator. 

(6)  If  it  be  a  fixed  sign  the  husband  will  remain  in 
his  place  and  if  it  be  a  common  sign,  he  will  travel  to 
foreign  lands  but  will  be  returning  to  his  place  every  now 
and  then. 

9.  If  the  7th  house,  from  the  rising  sign  or  from  the 
sign  occupied  by  the  Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman, 
be  occupied  by  several  malefic   planets,  the   woman  will 
become  a   widow  ;     if  such    7th    house   be   occupied   by 
several  benefic  and  malefic  planets  she  will  quit  her   hus- 
band and  marry  another  person  ;  and  if  such  7th  house  be 
occupied  by  a  malefic  planet  (a),  be  weak,  and  be   aspect- 
ed  by  a  benefic  planet  (6)  the  woman  will   be   rejected  by 
her  husband. 

If  Venus  and  Mars  occupy  each  other's  Navamsa  the 
woman  will  commit  adultery  ;  and  if  the  7th  house  from 
the  rising  sign  be  occupied  by  the  Moon,  Venus  and  Mars, 
she  will  commit  adultery  with  the  permission  of  her  hus- 
band. 

NOTES. 

(a)  Either  the  Sun  or  Mars  or  Saturn. 

(b)  Either  Mercury  or  Jupiter  or  Venus. 

10.  If  at  ihe  time  of  birth  of  a  woman  the  rising  sign 
be  that  of  Saturn  (a)  or  Mars  (b]  and  if  it  be  occupied   by 
the  Moon  and  Venus  and  aspected  by  malefic  planets,  the 
woman   and   her  mother   will  commit   adultery  ;  if  the 
setting  Navamsa  be  that  of  Mars   and  if  the  setting  sign 
be  aspected  by  Saturn,  the  woman  will  possess  a  diseased 
genital  organ  ;  and   if  the   setting  Navamsa  be   that  of  a 
benefic  planet  the  woman  will  possess  a  fine  genital  organ 
and  will  become  an  agreeable  wife. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Capricorn  or  Aquarius- 
(6)     Aries  or  Scorpio. 


CH.  XXIV.]  Britiat  Jdtakd.  215 

11.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman,   the  setting 
sign  or  the  setting  Navamsa  be  that  of  Saturn,   the  hus- 
band of  the  woman  will  be  an   old  man    and    a  fool  ;  if 
such  sign  or  Navamsa  be  that  of  Mars,  the  husband  will 
be  of  irascible  temper  but  will  be  attached  to  his  wife.    If 
such  sign  or  Navamsa  be  that  of  Venus,  the  husband  will 
be   beautiful   and   fond   of  his   wife ;     if  such    sign   or 
Navamsa  be  that  of  Mercury,  the  husband  will  be  learned 
and  intelligent. 

NOTES. 

In  this  and  in  the  next  stanza,  the  Commentator 
supposes  that  the  7th  house  is  unoccupied  by  planets. 

12.  If  the  setting  sign   or  the   setting   Navamsa  at 
the  time  of  birth    of  a  woman   be  that  of  the  Moon,  the 
husband  will   be  full  of  lustful  desires    and    of  a    quiet 
nature.     If  such  sign  or  Navamsa  be  that  of  Jupiter,  the 
husband  will  possess   courage  and   other  virtues  and  will 
have  a  control  over  his  passions  and   desires  ;  if  such  sign 
or  Navamsa  be  that  of  the   Sun,  the  husband  will  be  of 
very  soft  nature  and  will  engage  in  many  works  (a). 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  some,  the  reading  of  this  portion 
of  the  text  is  Raiikwrina  instead  of  Atilcarma,  in  which  case 
the  meaning  is  that  the  husband  will  indulge  much  in 
sexual  union.  Again,  if  the  setting  sign  be  that  of  one 
planet  and  the  setting  Navamsa  be  that  of  another  planet, 
the  effects  described  for  such  sign  or  Navamsa,  which- 
ever is  powerful,  will  come  to  pass. 

13.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth   of  a  woman,   the  rising 
sign  be   occupied  by  the  Moon  and   Venus,  the   woman 
will  be  envious  of  the  prosperity  of  other  persons  and  will 
be  greatly  mindful  of  her  comforts ;  if  the  rising   sign  be 


216  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXIV. 

occupied  by  the  Moon  and  Mercury,  the  woman  will  be 
learned  in  the  fine  arts,  will  be  in  the  enjoyment  of 
comfort  and  will  possess  many  good  qualities;  if  the 
rising  sign  be  occupiediby  Venus  and  Mercury,  the  woman 
will  be  beautiful,  much  liked  by  her  husband  and  learned 
in  music,  vocal  and  instrumental;  if  the  rising  sign  be 
occupied  by  the  Moon,  Mercury  and  Venus,  the  woman 
will  be  in  the  enjoyment  of  immense  wealth  and  comfort 
and  possessed  of  many  good  qualities.  If  the  rising  sign 
be  occupied  by  Mercury,  Jupiter  and  Venus,  the  same 
remarks  apply. 

14.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman,  the  8th  house 
from  the  Ascendant  be  occupied  by  a  malefic  planet,  the 
woman   will  become  a  widow  and  the   widowhood   will 
occur  (a)  in  the   Antardasa  period   of  the   planet  whose 
Navamsa  is  occupied  by  the  lord  of  such  8th   house.     If 
the  8th  house  be  occupied  by  a  malefic   planet  and  if  the 
2nd  house  be  occupied  by  a   benefic   planet,  the   woman 
will  die  before  her  husband  and  if  the  Moon  occupy  sign 
Virgo,  Scorpio,  Taurus   or  Leo,  she   will  have   very   few 
sons. 

NOTES. 

(a)  After  marriage,  of  course,  according  to  the  Com- 
mentator. 

15.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman   Saturn  be 
neither  powerful  nor  weak,  the  Moon,  Venus  and  Mercury 
be  weak,  and  the  Sun,  Mars  and   Jupiter  be  powerful  and 
if  the  rising  sign  be  odd,  the    woman  will  be  of  a  mascu- 
line character  (a). 

If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman,  Jupiter,  Mars,  Ve- 
nus and  Mercury  be  powerful  and  if  the  rising  sign  be  an 
even  sign,  the  woman  will  be  of  widespread  fame,  will  be 
vastly  learned  and  learned  also  in  the  Science  of  Divinity. 


CH.  XXV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  217 

NOTES.  , 

(a)  According  to  some,  the  woman  will  enjoy  many 
men. 

16.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  woman,  the  7th 
house  from  the  rising  sign  be  occupied  by  a  malefic 
planet  while  the  9th  house  is  occupied  by  some  planet,  the 
woman  will,  without  doubt,  become  an  ascetic  of  the  class 
belonging  to  the  planet  occupying  such  9th  house  (0). 

All  that  has  been  said  in  this  chapter  apply  Jo  the 
positions  of  the  planets  at  the  time  of  promise  of  gift  of 
girl  in  marriage,  of  such  gift  and  of  marriage  (<$),  also  at 
the  time  of  query. 

NOTES. 

(a)  And    the    other   effects  already  described   for 
planets  occupying  the  7th  horse  will  fail. 

(b)  Provided  such  effects  do  not   clash  against   the 
effects   described   in    the   chapters    on    Marriage 
Chapters  100  and  103  of  the  Brihat  Sainhita). 


CHAPTER  XXV. 
On  Death. 

1.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  8th  house 
from  the  rising  sign  be  unoccupied  and  be  aspected  by  a 
powerful  planet,  the  person  will  die  of  an  excess  of  the 
humour  belonging  to  such  powerful  planets  (a).  The  part 
of  the  body  attacked  will  be  the  part  which  such  8th 
house  represents  in  the  body  of  the  Kalapurusha  (6).  If 
several  planets  aspect  the  8th  house,  the  part  of  the  body 
will  be  subject  to  several  attacks  resulting  from  an  excess 
of  the  various  humours  belonging  to  such  powerful  planets 
and  death  will  ensue.  But  if  the  8th  house  be  occupied 
by  the  Sun,  the  death  of  the  person  will  be  caused  by  fire 
if  it  be  occupied  by  the  Moon,  the  death  will  be  caused  by 
water  j  if  by  Mars,  death  will  be  caused  by  weapons ;  if  by 
28 


Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXV. 

Mercury,  it  will  be  caused  by  fever;  if,  by  Jupiter,  it  will 
be  caused  by  some  unknown  disease  ;  if,  by  Venus,  it  will 
be  caused  by  thirst  ;  and  if  it  be  occupied  by  Saturn,  death 
will  be  caused  by  starvation  (<:).  Again,  if  the  8th  house 
be  a  movable  sign,  the  person  will  die  in  foreign  lands  ;  if 
it  be  a  fixed  sign,  he  will  die  in  his  own  country  ;  and  if 
it  be  a  common  sign,  he  will  die  on  his  way. 

NOTES. 


(a).  "Planets 

The  Sun 
The  Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Humours 

Bile 
Wind  and  phlegm 

Bile 
All  the  three  humours 

Phlegm 

Wind  and  Phlegm 
Wind 


(3)    Vide  Stanza  4,  Chapter  1. 

(c\  If  the  planet  be  powerful,  there  will  be  death  while 
the  person  is  engaged  in  a  good  work  ;  if  the  planet  be 
weak,  death  will  ensue  while  the  person  is  engaged  in  a 
bad  work  and  if  the  planet  be  neither  powerful  nor  weak 
the  person  will  die  while  engaged  in  a  work  of 
an  indifferent  character. 

2.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Sun  and 
Mars  occupy  the  4th  or  the   10th  house  from   the  rising 
sign,  the  person  will  die  being  struck   with   stones.     If 
the  4th,  7th  and  10th  houses  be  respectively  occupied  by 
Saturn,  the  Moon  and  Mars,  the  person  will  die   by   fall- 
ing into  a   well.     If  the   Sun   and    Moon   occupy  sign 
Virgo  and  if  they  be  aspected  by   a  malefic   planet  there 
will  be  death  caused  by  the   person's  kinsmen.     If  the 
rising  sign  be  a  common  sign  and  if  it  be  occupied  by  the 
Sun  and  the  Moon,  there  will  be  death  by  drowning. 

3.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  Saturn  occupy 
sign  Cancer  and  the  Moon  sign  Capricorn,  the  person  will 
die  from  an  attack  of  dropsy.     If  the  Moon  occupy   sign 


CH.XXV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd. 

Aries  or  Scorpio  and  be  between  malefic  planets,  death  will 
be  caused  by  weapons  or  by  fire.  If  the  Moon  occupy  sign 
Virgo  and  be  between  malefic  planets,  death  will  be  caused 
by  a  corruption  of  the  blood  or  by  want  of  blood.  If  the 
Moon  occupy  sign  Capricorn  or  Aquarius  and  be  between 
malefic  planets,  there  will  be  death  by  hanging,  by  fire  or 
by  fall. 

4.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  5th  or  the 
9th  house  be  occupied  by  two  malefic  planets  and  if  such 
planets  be  not  aspected  by  beuefic  planets,  the.  person  will 
meet  his  death  by  being  shut  up  in  a  prison  or  by  other 
restraint.  If  the  8th  house  from  the  rising  sign  contain  a 
Sarpa  or  Pasa  or  Nigala  Drekkana  (a),  death  will  also 
result  from  imprisonment  or  other  restraint.  If  Virgo  be  the 
7th  house  from  the  Ascendant  and  if  it  be  occupied  by  the 
Moon  accompained  by  a  benefic  planet,  if  Venus  occupy 
sign  Aries  and  the  Sun  the  rising  sign,  the  person  will 
die  in  his  own  house  and  such  death  will  be  caused  by  a 
woman. 

NOTES. 

(a)     Vide  notes  to  Stanza  16  of  Chapter  XXIII   and 
to  Stanza  6,  Chapter  XXL 

5.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  (1)  the  4th  house 
from  the  Ascendant  be  occupied  by  Mars  or  the  Sun  and 
if  the  10th  house  be  occupied  by  Saturn  or,  (2)  if  the  Sun, 
Mars,  Saturn  and  the  waning  Moon  occupy  the  Ascendant, 
the  5th  house  and  the  9th  house  or,  (3)  if  the  Sun  occupy 
the  4th  house  and  if  Mars  which  occupies  the  10th  house 
be  aspected  by  the  waning  Moon,  the  person  will  die,  in 
each  case,  being  stabbed  with  a  spear.  Again,  if  the  Sun 
occupy  the  4th  bouse  and  if  Mars  which  occupies  the 
10th  house  be  aspected  by  Saturn,  the  person  will  die 
being  struck  with  a  piece  of  wood. 

6.     If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  8th,  10th 
1st,  and  4th  houses  be  occupied  respectively  by   the  wa- 


tinhat  Jdtakd.  \tn. 

ning  Moon,  Mars,  Saturn  and  the  Sun,  the  person  will  die 
being  struck  with  a  club  or  stick.  If  the  10th,  9th,  1st 
and  5th  houses  be  occupied  respectively  by  the  waning 
Moon,  Mars,  Saturn  and  the  Sun,  the  death  of  the  person 
will  be  caused  by  smoke,  by  fire,  by  imprisonment  or  by 
blows. 

7.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a   person,  the  4th,  7th, 
and  10th  houses  be   respectively   occupied  by  Mars,   the 
Sun  and  Saturn,  the  person  will  die  by  weapons,  by  fire'or 
by  the  king.     If  the  2nd,  4th  and  10th  houses  be  respec- 
tively occupied  by  Saturn,  the  Moon  and  Mars,  the  person 
will  die  of  sores  and  worms. 

8.  If,   at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,   the  Sun 
occupy  the  10th  house   and  Mars  occupy  the  4th  house, 
the  person  will  die  in  consequence  of  a  fall  from  a  vehicle 
or  conveyance.  If  Mars  occupy  the  7th  house  and  the  Sun, 
the  Moon  and  Saturn  occupy  the  rising  sign,  the  person 
will  die  being  caught  in  a  machine.     If  (1)  sign  .Libra  be 
occupied  by  Mars,  sign  Aries  by  Saturn  and  sign  Capri- 
corn or  Aquarius  by  the  Moon,  or  (2)  if  .the  10th,  7th  and 
4th  houses  be  respectively  occupied  by  the  waning  Moonf 
by  the  Sun  and  by  Mars,  the  person  will  die  in  the  middle 
of  excrement. 

9.  If  the  waning  Moon  be   aspected    by  powerful 
Mars  arid  if  Saturn  occupy  the  8th  house,  the  person  will 
die  of  diseases  affecting  the  privities  (a) — the  part  affected 
will  be  either  eaten   through  by  worms  or  cut  with    the 
lancet  or  burnt  or  blistered. 

NOTES. 

(a)    Such   as  piles   and   fistula   in   the   Pudendum 
Muliebre. 

10.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  Sun  and 
Mars  occupy  the  7th  house,  Saturn  occupy  the  8th  house 
and  the  waning  Moon  occupy  the  4th  house,  the  death  of 


CH.  XXV.j  Brihat  Jdtakd. 

the  person  will  be  caused  by  birds.  If  the  1st,  5th,  8th 
and  9th  houses  be  occupied  respectively  by  the  Sun,  Mars, 
Saturn  and  the  Moon,  the  person's  death  will  be  caused 
by  a  fall  from  mountain  top,  by  an  attack  of  lightning  or 
by  the  fall  of  a  wall. 

1 1.  The  cause  of  death  of  a  person  whose  horoscope 
does  not  contain  any  of  the  Yogas  enumerated  above  shall 
be  determined  from  the  22nd  Drekkana  counted  from  the 
rising  Drekkana  at  the   time  of    birth  of  a   person  ;   and 
death  will  be  caused  by  the  lord  of  such  (22nd)  Drekkana 
or  by  the  lord   of  the  sign  of  which   the    Drekkana  is  a 
division,  whichever  is  powerful,   by  water,   fire    or  other 
means  belonging  to  such  lord  (a). 

NOTES, 
(a)     Vide  Stanza  1  of  this  Chapter. 

12.  The  place  of  death  of  a  person   will  be  that  of 
the  sign  occupied  by  the  lord  of  the  rising  Navamsa  (a)  ; 
or  it  will  be  the  place   of  the  sign   of  the  planet  which 
occupies  the  same  sign  as  that  occupied   by  the   lord   of 
the  rising  Navamsa  ;  or  it  will  be  the  place  of  the  sign  of 
the  planet  aspecting  the  lord  of  the  rising  Navamsa  ;  or  it 
will  be  the  place  of  the  sign  of  the  lord   of  the  Navamsa 
occupied  by  the  lord  of  the  rising  Navamsa  (b).     The  ac- 
tual place  of  death  shall  be   determined   by  a  careful  ex- 
amination of  the  several  points.     The   period  for  which  a 
person  will  remain  insensible   before    death   will   be  the 
time  of  oblique  ascension  of  the  portion  of  the  rising  sign 
below  the   horizon.     If  the   rising  sign   be  aspected   by 
his  lord,  such  period   will  be   twice,  and  if  it  be  aspected 
by  benefic  planets,  it  will  be  three  times   the  time  of  such 
oblique1  ascension  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)     Aries — place     frequented   by  sheep;    Taurus- 
place  frequented  by  oxen  ;  Gemini— a   house;  Cancer— a 


222  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [£H.  XXV. 

well ;  Leo — a  forest;  Virgo— water-bauk ;  Libra— bazaar 
or  store-house  ;  Scorpio — a  hole ;  Sagittari — rplace  fre- 
quented by  horses  ;  Capricorn — watery  tracts  ;  Aquarius 
—a  liouse  ;  Pisces — watery  places. 

The  above  is  general.  If  a  distinct  place  of  death  be 
mentioned  in  connection  with  a  Yoga  relating  to  death, 
the  death  will  occur  only  in  such  a  place, 

(£)  If  different  places  of  death  are  pointed  out  by 
different  planets,  the  place  belonging  to  the  sign  of  the 
most  powerful  planet  will  be  the  place  of  death.  Again, 
of  the  two  signs  of  a  planet,  the  place  of  the  Moolatri- 
kona  sign  will  be  the  place  of  death.  According  to  some, 
the  place  of  death  is  the  particular  portion  of  the  house 
belonging  to  the  most  powerful  planet — such  as  the  place 
of  worship,  the  bath-room,  the  kitchen,  &c.,  (Vide  Stanza 
12  of  Chapter  II.) 

(c)  If  the  rising  sign  be  aspectecr  by  its  lord. and  by 
a  benefic  planet,  the  period  of  insensibility  will  be  six 
times  as  long. 

13.  If,  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person,  the  22nd 
Drekkana  from  the  rising  Drekkana  be  a  fiery  Drekkana 
(a),  the  body  of  the  person  after  death  will  be  burnt  and 
reduced  to  ashes.  If  the  22nd  Drekkana  be  a  watery 
Drekkana  (3),  the  body  will  be  thrown  into  water  '  if  such 
Drekkana  be  a  Misra  Drekkana  (c\  the  body  will  be 
neither  burnt  nor  thrown  into  water  but  allowed  to  dry 
up.  If  the  8th  house  contain  a  Sarpa  Drekkana  (</),  the 
body  will  be  devoured  by  dogs,  jackals,  crows  and  the 
like.  Thus  has  been  described  the  change  of  the  body 
after  death.  For  a  knowledge  of  the  past  and  future  life 
of  a  person  and  of  the  nature  of  such  life,  the  reader  is 
referred  to  higher  works  on  Horoscopy. 

NOTES. 

.        (#)     A  Fiery  Drekkana  is  the  Drekkana  of  a  malefic 
planet. 


CH.  XXV.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  223 

(b)  A  Watery  Drekkana  is  the  Drekkana  of  a  benefic 
planet. 

(c)  A  Misra  Drekkana  is  the    Drekkana  of  a  benefic 
planet  occupied  by  a  malefic  planet  as  well  as  the   Drek- 
kana of  a  malefic  planet  occupied  by  a  benefic  planet. 

(d}  Sarpa  Drekkanas  : — These  are  the  1st  and  2nd 
Drekkauas  of  Cancer,  the  1st  and  2nd  Drekkanas  of  Scor- 
pio a,nd  the  3rd  Drekkana  of  Pisces.  According  to  Sub- 
hodhini,  the  terms  "  Vyala  varga"  is  interpreted  into  the 
Drekkanas  of  Vyala  (Sarpa),  Gridhra  (vulture),  Kola  (hog) 
and  the  like. 

14.  If  the  lord  of  the  Drekkana  occupied  by  the  Sun 
or  the  Moon,  whichever  is  powerful,  be  Jupiter,  the  per- 
son has  come  from  Devaloka  ;  if  such  lord  be  either  the 
Moon  or  Venus,  the  person   has  come  from  Pitriloka ;  if 
such  lord  be  the  Sun  or  Mars,  the  person   has  come  from 
the  world  of  lower   animals  ;  and  if  such  lord   be  either 
Saturn  or  Mercury,  the  person  has  come  from  the  region 
of  hell. 

If  the  lord  of  the  Drekkana  occupied  by  the  Sun  or 
the  Moon,  whichever  is  powerful,  be  in  his  exaltation 
sign,  such  last  life  of  the  person  will  be  of  an  exalted 
character ;  if  such  lord  occupy  a  place  between  the 
exaltation  and  depression  signs,  the  last  life  will  be  one  of 
middle  importance  ;  and  if  such  lord  occupy  his  depres- 
sion sign,  the  last  life  of  the  person  will  be  one  of  a  low 
character. 

15.  If  the  6th  and  the   8th  houses  be  unoccupied, 
the  person  will,  after  death,  go  to  the  world  of  the  planet 
most  powerful  of  the  lords  of  the  Drekkauas  of  such  6th 
and  8th  houses  (a)  ;  or  the  person  will  go  to  the  world  of 
the  planet  occupying  the    6th,  7th  or  the  8th  house  (6). 
Again,  if  Jupiter   occupy  the    6th  house  or  one   of  the 
Kendra  houses  or  the  8th  house  and  be   at  the  same  time 
in  his  exaltation  sign  or  if  the  rising  sign  be  Pisces  and 


224  Brikat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXVI. 

Jupiter  occupy  it  and  be  in  the  Navamsa  of  a  benefic 
planet  while  the  other  planets  are  weak,  the  person  will 
obtain  Salvation  after  death  (c}. 

NOTES. 

(a)  For  the  worlds  of  the  several  planets,  Vide  last 
stanza. 

(b)  If  two  or  more  planets  occupy  the  6th,  7th  and 
8th  houses,  the  person  will  go  to  the   world  of  the   most 
powerful  of  them. 

(c)  The   next  world   may  also    be  determined  from 
the  position  of  the  planets  at  the  time  of  death  as  at  the 
time  of  birth  of  a  person. 


CHAPTER    XXVI. 
On  Lost  Horoscopes. 

1.  When  a  person   is  ignorant   of  the  time  of  his 
conception  or  birth,  the  time  of  birth   shall,  when  duly, 
questioned  about,  be  determined  from  the  Prasua   I,agna 
(a).     If  the    1st  half  of  the  rising  sign   be   cut  by  the 
horizon,  the  month  of  birth  will  be  in  the   Uttarayana  (b} 
and  if  the  2nd  half  be  cut  by  the  horizon,  the  month  will 
be  in  the  Dakshinayana  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)  Prasna  Lagna  the  rising  sign  at  the  time  of 
query. 

(6)  Uttarayana  :  the  6  months  fiom  Capricorn  to 
Gemini. 

(c)  Dakshinayana  :  the  6  months  from  Cancer  to 
Sagittari. 

2.  If  at  the  time   of   query  the  first  Drekkana  of  a 
sign  begin   to  rise,  the   sign   occupied  by  Jupiter  at  the 
time  of  birth  will  be  the  Prasna  Lagna  itself.    If  the  2nd 


CH.  XXVI.]  Bnhat  Jdtakd.  225 

Drekkatia  of  a  sign  begin  to  rise  at  the  time  of  query, 
the  sign  occupied  by  Jupiter  at  the  time  of  birth  will  be 
the  5th  sign  from  the  Prasna  Lagna;  if  the  3rd  Drekkana 
of  a  sign  begin  to  rise  at  the  time  of  query,  the  sign 
occupied  by  Jupiter  at  the  time  of  birth  will  be  the  9th 
sign  from  the  Prasna  Lagna  (a).  The  year  of  birth 
shall  then  be  determined  from  the  appearance  of  the 
person  (#).  If  the  Sun  occupy  the  Prasana  Lagna  or  if 
the  Drekkana  of  the  Sun  rise  at  the  time  of  query, 
the  Ritu  (a  period  of  2  mouths)  of  birth  will  beGreeshma 
(when  the  Sun  passes  through  Gemini  and  Cancer)  ;  and 
in  the  case  of  other  planets,  their  Ritus  have  been  men- 
tioned elsewhere  (c).  If  the  Ritu  thus  determined  do 
not  happen  to  be  the  Ritu  of  the  Ayana  already  deter- 
mined, the  correct  Ritu  shall  be  determined  as  explained 
in  the  next  stanza  (d}. 

NOTES. 

(a)  In  other  words,  if  the  rising  Dwadasamsa  at  the 
time  of  query  be  the  first,  the  sign  occupied  by  Juptier  at  the 
time  of  birth  will  be  the  Prasana  Lagna  itself ;  if  the  rising 
Dwadasamsa  be   the  2nd,  the  sign  occupied   by  Jupiter 
at   the  time  of  birth  will  be  the  2nd  sign  from  the  Prasna 
Lagna  and  so  on. 

(b]  As  Jupiter  takes  12  years  to  go  round   the  hea- 
vens, if  the  number  of  circuits  passed  through  by  Jupiter 
from  the  time  of  birth  be  known,  the  age  of  the  person  can 
be  at  once  determined.     For  instance,  suppose  Jupiter  to 
occupy  sign  Scorpio  at  the  time  of  query  and  sign  Taurus 
at  the  time  of  birth,  and  suppose    him   to  be   in    his   4th 
circuit.     The  age  of  the  person   will   be   3x12  +  6  or  4-2 
years.     The  cycle  of  Jupiter  can  be  determined  from   the, 
appearance  of  the  person — from  a  rough   estimate  of  his 
age.    In  the  instance  cited  above,  the  age  of  the  person 
should  be  either  6,  or  12  +  6  -  18,  or  24  +  6-  30,  or  36+  6  =  42, 
and  so  on.     If,   however,   the  cycle  of  Jupiter  cannot  be 

29 


226  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [CH,  XXVI; 

easily  ascertained"  from  the  appearance  of  the  person,  the 
number -of  the  cycle  shall  be  determined  from  the  part  of 
bod}?: 'touched  by  a  person  at  the  time.  In  Stanza  24pof 
Chapter  70  of  the  Brihat  Samhita,  the  human  body  is 
divided  into  ten  parts,  each  part  corresponding  to  a  Dasa 
period  of  12  years. 

(1).    Feet  and  ankles. 
•-•(%}*••'  Shanks  and  knees. 

(3).     The  thighs  and  genital  organ. 

(4).    The  loins  and  the  navel. 

(5).    The  belly, 

(6).    The  breast  and  the  bosoms. 

(7).    The  shoulders. 

(8).    The  neck  and  lips. 

(9).    The  eyes  and  brows. 
(10).     The  forehead  and  the  head. 

So  that  if  the  belly  be  touched,  it  may  be  determined 
that  at  the  time  of  query  Jupiter  is  in  his  5th  round.  So 
that  the  age  of  the  person  will  be  4  x  12  or  48  years,  plus 
the.  number  of  years  taken  by  Jupiter  to  move  from  the 
sign  occupied  by  him  at  the  time  of  birth  to  the  sign 
occupied  by  him  at  the  time  of  query. 

(c)  So  that,  if  the  Sun  occupy  the  Prasna  L,agna  or  if 
the  .Drekkana  of  the  Sun  rise  at  the  time  of  query,  the 
Rituls  Greeshma. 

If  Venus  occupy  the  Prasna  Lagna  or  if  the  Drek- 
kana of  Venus  rise  at  the  time  of  query,  the  Ritu  is  Va- 
santa  (when  the  Sun  passes  through  Aries  and  Taurus)* 
In  the  case  of  Mars  and  his  Drekkana,  the  Ritu  is  Gree- 
shma (Gemini  and  Cancer).  In  the.  case  of  the  Moon  and 
her  Drekkana,  the  Ritu  is  Varsha  (Leo  and  Virgo).  In 
"the  case  of  Mercury  and  his  Drekkana,  the  Ritu  is  Sarat 
(Libra  and  Scorpio).  In  the  case  of  Jupiter  and  his  Drek- 
kana, the  Ritu  is  Hemanta  (Sagittari  and  Capricorn).  In 

case  9f  Saturn  and, his  Drekkana,  the  Ritu.  is  Sisira- 


CH.  XXVI]  Brihat  Jatakd. 

(Aquarius  and  Pisces).  If  two  or  more  planets  occupy  the, 
Prasna  Lagua,  the  Ritu  of  the  most  powerful  planet  will 
be  the  Ritu  of  birth. 

(.d)  Suppose  the  Ayana  determined  from  Stanza  1  to! 
be  the  Uttarayana,  so  that  the  month  of  birth  is  bet- 
ween Capricorn  and  Gemini.  Suppose  the  Prasna  Lagna 
to  be  occupied  by  the  Moon  whose  Ritu  is  Varsha  (Leo 
and  Virgo).  In  such  a  case,  the  Ritu  of  Venus,  the  alter* 
native  planet  of  the  Moon,  viz.,  the  Vasanta  (Aries  and 
Taurus),  shallbe  determined  as  the  «Ritu  of  birth  as  ex- 
plained in  the  3rd  stanza. 

3.  If  the  Ritu  do  not  agree  with  the  Ayaita,  then,  the 
Ritu  of  the  alternative  planet  shall  be  determined  as  tlie 
Ritu  of  birth  of  a  person  (a).  The  Moon  and  Venus  are 
alternative  planets.  So  are  Mercury  and  Mars  (b}t  and 
so  are  Jupiter  and  Saturn.  If  the  first  half  of  the  rising 
Drekkana  should  rise  at  the  time  of  query,  the  month  of; 
birth  will  be  the  first  of  the  two  months  of  the  Ritu  ;  and- 
if  the  second  half  should  rise,  then,  the  2nd  month  of  the 
Ritu  will  be  the  month  of  birth.  The  date  of  birth  shall 
be  determined  from  the  portion  of  the  half  Drekkana  that 
has  risen  above  the  horizon  (c). 

NOTES. 

(a)     This  point   has    been   already   explained,    vid* 

note  (d)  to  the  last  stanza. 

. .     •    •  , 

05)  According  to  the  Commentator,  Mercury;  Mars 
and  the  Sun  are  alternative  planets. 

(c)  As  the  half  Drekkana  which  may  be  rising  at  th^ 
time  of  query  represents  all  the  30  days  of  a  month,  if 
just  one  half  of  it  should  4iave  risen  above  the'Kbrizou,  the 
birth  must  have  occurred  just  after  15  days  of  the  moiftru 
In  other  \vords$  the  date  of  birth  may  be.  determined  frorri 
the  portion  of  the  half  sign  that  has  risen  .fbpve_Uj(e 
horizon  by  proportion,  A  Drekkana  is  10  degrees;  the  half 


228  &Hkai.&fakd.  [Ctf.  XXVt. 

of  a  Drekkana  is  5  degrees  and  a  thirtieth  part  of  it  is  10 
minutes,  so  that  every  10  minutes  of  the  rising  half  Drek- 
kana represents  a  day.  It  will  be  convenient  if  the  Lagna 
Sphuta,  i.e.,  the  exact  longitude  in  signs,  degrees  and 
minutes  of  the  point  of  the  ecliptic  cut  by  the  horizon  be 
determined  in  the  first  instance  (Vide  Appendix). 

4.  The  Learned  Brahmins  in  the  Science  of  Horoscopy 
say,  that  the  number  of  degrees  passed  over  by  the  Sun  in 
any  particular  sign  represents  the  lunar  day  at  the  time  of 
birth  (a}.  If  the  Prasna  Lagna  be  a  day  sign,  the  birth 
will  have  occurred  at  nig/it  and  if  it  be  a  night  sign,  the  birth 
will  have  occurred  by  day;  the  ghalika  of  birth  shall  be 
determined  from  the  portion  of  the  rising  sign  that  has 
risen  above  the  horizon  (b). 

NOTES. 

(«)  Beginning  from  the  first  lunar  day  in  the  Moon's 
increase,  suppose  the  Sun  to  occupy  the  24th  degree  of 
Sagittari  at  the  time  of  birth.  The  lunar  day  or  Tithi  at 
the  time  of  birth  is  the  24th  day  counted  from  the  first 
day  in  the  Moon's  increase  or  24 — 15  or  the  9th  day  in 
her  wane. 

(b)  The  length  of  the  day  or  night  of  birth  being 
known  it  is  represented  by  the  rising  sign  and  the  Lagna 
Sphuta  will  give  us  the  exact  proportion  of  the  Sign  that 
has  risen  above  the  horizon.  By  the  Rule  of  Three,  we 
can  arrive  at  the  exact  time  of  birth  from  Sun-rise  or  Sun- 
set. When  this  is  known,  the  Horoscope  may  be  cast  with 
the  help  of  the  Astronomical  Tables  or  the  Almanac.  The 
first  four  stanzas,  therefore,  give  us  a  complete  process  for 
the  discovery  of  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person  from  the 
Prasna  Lagna. 

5.  According  to  some,  the  lunar  month  of  birth  shall 
be  determined  from  the  Navamsa  occupied  by  the  Moon  at 
the  time  of  query  («).  Again,  the  sign  occupied  by  the 
Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  will  be  either  the  Prasna  Lagna 
or  the  5th  house  or  9th  house  from  it,  whichever  is  most 


CH.  XXVI.] 


Brihat  Jdtakd. 


229 


powerful.  If  it  be  difficult  to  determine  which  of  the  three 
signs  is  most  powerful,  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon  will 
be  the  sign  represented  by  the  part  of  body  of  Kalapurusha 
that  may  happen  to  be  touched  by  a  person  at  the  time  of 
query  or  the  sign  may  be  determined  from  the  like  indica- 
tions occurring  at  the  time  of  query  (6). 

NOTES. 

(a)  The  rule  stated  in  the  Text  is  very  vague.  What 
the  Author  means  is  thus  explained  by  the  Commentator. 

Suppose  each  Navamsa  to  be  divided  into  9  equal 
parts  ;  then,  if  at  the  time  of  query  the  place  occupied  by 
the  Moon  be, 

Beyond  the  And  within  the  The  lunar 

month  will  be 
Kartika. 


(1)   8th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Aries. 

(-2)  7th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Taurus. 

(3)  6th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Gemini. 

(4)  5th  part  of   the 
Navamsa  of  Cancer. 

(5)  4th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Leo. 

(6)  7th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Virgo. 

(7)  6th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Libra. 

(8)  5th  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Scorpio. 

(9)  4th    part  of    the 
Navamsa  of  Sagittari. 


7th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Taurus. 

6th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Gemini. 

5th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Cancer. 

4th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Leo. 


7th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Virgo. 

6th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Libra. 

5th  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa of  Scorpio. 

4th  part  of  the  Na-    Jyeshtha. 
vamsa  of  Sagittari. 

3rd  part  of  the  Na-     Ashadha. 
vamsa  of  Capricorn. 


Margasira. 

Poushya, 

Magha. 

Phalguna, 

Chaitra. 

Vaisakha, 


(10)  3rd  part  of  the 
Navamsa  of  Capricorn. 


2nd  part  of  the  Na- 
vamsa  of  Aquarius, 


Sravana. 


230  Brihat  Jatakd.  \  [Cn.  XXVI. 

(11)  2nd  part  of  the    5th  part  of  the  ]S[a-      Bhadra- 
Navamsa of  Aquarius.,     varnsa   of  Pisces    ...  pa.da, 

(12)  5th  part  of  the        8th  part  of  the  Na-      Aswayu- 
Navaiiisa of  Pisces   ...     vain sa  of  Aries.        ...  ja. 

(6)  For  instance,  if,  at  the  time,  creatures  represen- 
ting any  of  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac  be  seen  or  their  sounds 
heard,  the  Moon  will  occupy  such  sign  at  the  time  of 
birth. 

6.  The  sign  occupied   by  the   Moon -at   tire  time  of 
l?irth  of  a  person  will  be  as  many  signs  removed  from   the 
sign  occupied  by  the   Moon  at  the  time  of   query  as   the 
Moon  is  removed  from  the  rising  sign  at  the  time  of  query 
(a).    But  if  the  rising  sign  be  Pisces,  then  Pisces   will  be 
the  sign  occupied  by  the  Moon  at  the   time. of  birth.  (In 
case  of  doubt),  the  sign  shall  be  determined  by  any  articles 
of  food  that  may   be  brought,    any   figures  that   may  ap- 
pear or  by  any  sounds  that  may  be  heard  at  the   time  (6). 

NOTES. 

(a)  For  instance,  suppose  Scorpio  is  the  rising  sigh 
and  Pisces  the  sign  occupied  by  the  Mcon  at  the  time  of 
query.  From  Scorpio  to  Pisces  is  5  signs;  the  5lh  sign 
from  Pisces  is  Cancer.  Cancer  will,  therefore,  be  the  sign 
occupied  by  the  Moon  at  the  time  of  birth  of  a  person. 

(&)  From  articles  having  the  shape  of,  or  in  any  way 
connected  with  the  creatures  representing  the  signs  of 
the  Zodiac  and  from  the  sounds  of  the  like  creature,  the 
sign  occupied  by  the  Moon  may  be  determined.  In  all 
these  cases,  it  is  assumed,  that  an  All-pervading  Intelligent 
Bemg  helps  an  astrologer  by  various  signs  and.  sugges- 
tions. 

7.  The  rising  sign  at  the  time  of  birth    will  be    the 
sign  of  the  lord  of  the  rising  Navamsa  at  the  time  of  query 
(a).     Or,  the  rising  sign  at  the   time  of  birth    will   be  as 
many  signs  removed  from  Prasna  Lagua  as   the  Drekka- 


£H.  XXVI.]  Brihaf  Jalaka.. 

.na  occupied  by  the  Sun  is  removed  from  tiie  risingDrek- 
.kana  at  the  time  of  query  (&).   - . 

NOTES.  .'••'. 

-.  (a)  Supposing  the  rising  Navamsa  at  the  time  of 
query  to  be  that  of  Sagittari,  the  rising  sign  at  the  time 
of  birth  is  Sagittari. 

.--.'.  (b)  Suppose  the  rising  Drekkana  at  the  time  .of 
query ..to  be  the  2nd  Djrekkana  of  sign  Gemini  and  the 
Drekkana  occupied  by  the  Sun  at  the  same  time  to  be  the 
J3rd  Drekkana  of  Sagittari.  The  number  of  Drekkanas 
from  the  one  to  the  other  is  20.  Therefore,  the  rising  sign 
at  the  time  of  birth  is  the  20th  sign  from  Gemini ;  sub- 
tracting 12  from  20  it  is  the  8th  sign  from  Gemini,  *^r) 
sign  Capricorn. 

8.  Or,  multiply  the  Sphuta  (Longitude)  of  the  planet 
or  of  the  most  powerful  planet  occupying  the  rising  sign 
by  the  number  of  inches  in  the  length  of  the  shadow  of 
a  twelve-inch  Sanku  (a  straight  rod)  placed  vertically  on 
a  horizontal  surface  and  in  the  Sun  ;  divide  the  product 
by  12.  The  remainder  will  give  the  rising  sign  at  the 
time  of  birth  (a).  According  to  others,  if  the  querent  be 
seated  at  the  time  of  query,  the  7th  house  from  the  rising 
sign  at  the  time  will  be  the  Lagna  at  the  time  of  birth  ; 
if  the  querent  be  lying  at  the  time,  the  4th  house  from  the 
rising  sign  will  be  the  Lagna  at  the  time  of  birth  ;  if  the 
querent  be  standing  at  the  time,  then,  the  10th  house  will 
be  the  Lagna ;  and  if  he  be  rising  from  his  seat,  then  the 
rising  sign  itself  will  be  the  Lagna  at  the  time  of  birth  (-6). 

NOTES. 

(a)  Suppose  the  longitude  of  the  planet,  of,  (where 
there  are  several  planets)  of  the  most  powerful  planet 
occupying  the  rising  sign  to  be  4  signs  10  degrees  and  20 
minutes  and  suppose  the  length  of  the  shadow  to  be  4£ 
inches  ;  the  product  of  the  two  numbers  is  19  signs  16 
decrees  and  30  minutes.  This,  divided  by  12,  gives  as 


232  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXVI. 

remainder,  7  signs,  16  degrees  and  30  minutes.  The  Lagna 
at  the  time  of  birth  is  therefore  the  8th  sign  from  Aries, 
i.e.,  sign  Scorpio. 

(£)  According  to  Subliodhini,  the  7th,  4th,  10th 
and  1st  houses  are  not  with  reference  to  the  Prasna 
Lagna  as  explained  by  Bhatta-Utpala  but  with  reference 
to  the  Lagna  obtained  from  the  procees  given  in  the  first 
half  of  the  text,  that  is,  from  sign  Scorpio  in  the  instance 
quoted  in  note  (a). 

9.  If  the  rising  sign  at  the  time  of  query  be  Tau- 
rus or  Leo,  multiply  the  Lagna  Sphuta  (the  Longitude  of 
the  Ascendant)  by  10 ;  if  it  be  Gemini  or  Scorpio,  then 
multiply  the  Sphuta  by  8  ;  if  Aries  or  Libra,  then  by  7  ;  if 
Virgo  or  Capricorn,  then  by  5 ;  and  if  it  be  any  of  the 
remaining  signs,  then  by  the  number  of  such  sign  from 
Aries  (a).  Again,  if  the  planet  occupying  the  rising  sign 
be  Jupiter,  multiply  the  Lagna  Sphuta  by  10;  if  it  be 
Mars,  by  8  j  if  Venus,  by  7 ;  if  any  of  the  remaining  pla- 
nets by  5.  If  several  planets  occupy  the  rising  sign,  then 
multiply  the  Lagna  Sphuta  by  the  factor  for  each  of  such 
planets.  Add  up  the  several  products  and  find  the 
sum  (£). 

NOTES. 

In  this  and  in  the  next  stanza  the  Author  states  a 
process  for  discovering  the  Nakshatra  ( Asterism  occupied 
by  the  Moon)  of  the  querent,  his  wife,  brother,  son  and 
enemy.  The  figures  given  in  the  Text  are  known  as  those 
of  Rasi  Gunakara  and  Graha  Gnnakara — Zodiacal  and 
Planetary  factors,  referred  to  in  the  Chapter  on  Ashtakav- 
argas. 

(a)  For  instance,  if  Cancer  be  the  sign,  it  being  the 
4th  sign  from  Aries,  the  factor  for  Cancer  is  4.  The 
factor  for  Sagittari  is  9  ;  that  for  Aquarius  is  11  and  that 
for  Pisces  is  1 2, 


CH.  XXVI.]  Brihat  Mtakft.  233 

(&)  Suppose  the  Lagna  Sphuta  to  be  5*  10°  20'  and 
suppose  Jupiter  and  Venus  to  occupy  the  rising  sign«. 
Now,  from  the  Lagna  Sphuta  it  is  evident  that  the  ri- 
sing sign  is  Virgo.  The  factor  for  Virgo  is  5.  Muliplying. 
59  10°  20' by  5,  we  get  26*  21°  40'.  Dividing  this  by  12  we. 
get  as  remainder  2"  21°  40'  (R.).  Again,  the  factor  for 
Jupiter  is  10  and  that  for  Venus  is  7.  Multiplying  5s  10° 
20'  by  10,  we  get  533  13°  20'.  Dividing  by  12  we  get  as 
remainder  5s  13°  20'.  Again,  multiplying  53  10°  20'  by  7 
we  get  37s  12°  20'.  Dividing  by  12  we  get  1-  12°  20V 
Adding  this  to  5s  13°  20'  we  get  6  25°  40'  (G).  Adding 
together  R  and  G  we  get  98  17°  20*. 

10.  Multiply  this  sum  by  7,  add  9  to  the  product,  i£ 
the  rising  sign  be  a  moveable  sign  ;  or  subtract  9  from  the 
product,  if  the  rising  sign  be  a  common  one ;  or  leave  the 
product,  as  it  is,  if  the  rising  sign  be  a  fixed  one  (<?).  Divide 
the  sum  or  the  difference  or  the  product,  as  the  case  may 
be,  by  27.  The  remainder  will  represent  the  Nakshatra  of 
the  querent  at  the  time  of  birth.  By  a  similar  process 
applied  to  the  Splmta  of  the  3rd,  oth,  6th  and  7th  houses 
(h),  we  shall  get  the  Xakshatras  of  the  querent's  brother,, 
son,  enemy  and  wife. 

NOTES. 

(a)  According  to  Bhatta-Utpala,  if  the  rising  Drek- 
kana  be  the  first  Drekkana  of  the  sign,  9  is  to  be  added  ; 
if  it  be  the  2nd,  9  need  neither  be  added  to  nor  subtracted 
from  the  product  ;  and  if  it  be  the  3rd,  9  is  to  be  subtract- 
ed from  the  product. 

(&)  If  you  add  2  signs  to  the  Lagua  Sphuta,  you  get 
the  sphuta  of  the  3rd  house  which  represents  a  person's 
brother  ;  if  you  add  4  signs  to  the  Lagna  Sphuta,  you  get 
the  Sphuta  of  the  fifth  house  which  represents  a  person's 
son  ;  if  you  add  5  signs  to  the  Lagna  Sphuta,  you  get  the 
Sphuta  of  the  6th  house  which  represents  a  person's  ene- 
my ;  and  if  you  add  6  signs  to  the  Lagna  Sphuta  you  get 
30 


234  Brihat  Jdtakt.  [Cn.  XXVL- 

the  Sphuta  of  the  7th  house  which  represents  a  person's 
•wife.  Multiply  the  several  Sphutas  by  the  Zodiacal  fac- 
tors of  the  several  houses  and  by  the  factors  of  the  planet 
occupying  such  houses,  add  the  products,  multiply  the  sum 
by  7,  add  or  subtract  9,  if  necessary,  divide  the  sum  or  re- 
mainder by  27,  the  remainder  will  give  you  the  Naksha- 
tra  of  the  several  persons. 

11.  Multiply   the  same  sum  (a)  by  10,  8,  7,  5  ;  add 
or  substract   9,   if  necessary,  as  stated  above  ;    divide  the 
result  by  their   appropriate   numbers  (b)  ;  you  will  obtain 
the  Year,  Ritu,  Month,  Lunar  day,  day  or  night,  Naksha- 
tra,  the  Ghatika,  the  rising  Sign  and  the  rising  Navamsa 
at  the  time  of  birth. 

NOTES. 

In  this  and  in  the  following  three  stanzas,  the  Author 
states  another  process  for  discovering  the  year,  month,  &c. 
of  the  birth  of  a  person. 

(a)    The  sum  obtained  at  the  end  of  Stauza  9. 

(6)  These  and  the  processes  of  division  will  be  found 
explained  in  the  next  three  stanzas. 

12.  From  the    product    of  the  sum  by    10  shall   be 
determined  the  year  (age),  Ritu  and  month  of  birth  («) ; 
and  from  the  product  of  the  sum  by  8  shall  be  determined 
the  Vaksha  (fortnight)  and  Tithi  (lunar  day)  (6). 

NOTES. 

(a)  This  product  is  the  first  of  the  four  products 
referred  to  in  the  last  stanza  with  9  added  to  or  subtract- 
ed from  it,  if  necessary.  Divide  the  quantity  by  120,  the 
remainder  will  give  the  age  of  the  person.  Divide  the 
same  quantity  by  6,  the  remainder  will  give  the  Ritu  of 
birth  from  Sisira.  Divide  the  same  quantity  by  2,  the 
remainder  will  give  the  first  or  the  second  mouth  of  the 
Ritu. 


CH.  XXVI.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  235 

(£)  This  product  is  the  second  of  the  four  products 
referred  to  in  the  last  stanza  with  9  added  or  subtracted,  if 
necessary.  Divide  this  quantity  by  2  the  remainder 
will  give  the  fortnight  of  birth.  Divide  the  same  quanti- 
ty -by  15,  the  remainder  will  give  the  lunar-day- 

13.  From  the  product  of  (a)  the  sum   by   7  shall  be 
determined  whether  the  birth  occurred  by  day  or  by  night 
and  also  the  Nakshatra. 

NOTES. 

(a)  This  product  is  the  3rd  of  the  four  products  men- 
tioned in  the  11  th  stanza  with  9  added  or  subtracted,  if 
necessary.  Divide  the  quantity  by  2,  the  birth  will  have 
occurred  by  day  or  night  according  as  the  remainder  is 
one  or  more  than  one.  Divide  the  same  quantity  by  27, 
the  remainder  will  give  the  Nakshatra  from  Aswini. 

14.  From  the  product  (<?)  of  the  sum  by  5,  shall  be 
determind  the  Ghatika,  the  rising  Sign,  the  Hora  and  the 
rising  Navamsa  at  the  time  of  birth. 

NOTES. 

(a)  This  product  is  the  last  of  the  four  products  men- 
tioned in  Stanza  11  with  9  added  or  subtracted,  if  neces- 
sary. Divide  the  quantity  by  the  number  of  Ghatikas  in 
the  day  or  night  of  birth  as  the  case  may  be  ;  the  re- 
mainder will  give  the  Ghatika  from  Sun-rise  or  Sun-set  at 
the  time  of  birth.  Divide  the  same  quantity  by  12,  the 
remainder  will  give  the  rising  sign  from  Aries.  Divide  the 
quantity  by  two,  the  Hora  of  birth  will  be  the  1st  or  2nd 
according  as  the  remainder  is  1  or  more  than  1.  Divide  the 
quantity  by  9,  the  remainder  will  give  the  number  of 
the  rising  Navamsa  from  the  first  Navamsa  of  the  rising 
Sign. 

Similarly,  divide  the  quantity  by  12,  the  remainder 
will  giv€  the  number  of  the  rising  Dwadasamsa  ;  divide 
the  quantity  by  8,  the  remainder  will  give  the  risiug  Drek- 
kana. 


Srihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXVl. 

N.B.—In.  all  the  above  cases,  it  is  evident  that  the 
remainder  will  be  in  the  shape  of  signs,  degrees  and 
minutes.  The  number  representing  the  signs,  is  the 
number  representing  the  particular  Nakshatra,  Year, 
Month,  Paksha,  Tithi,  Ghatika,  £c.,  at  the  time  of  birth— 
the  degrees  and  minutes  only  go  to  increase  the  number  by 
unity. 

15.  Multiply   by   two   the  number  of  Matras   in  a 
person's  name  ;  add   the  length   of  shadow   to  it  ;  divide 
the  sum  by  27  y  the  remainder  will  give  the   Nakshatra, 

at  the  time  of  birth,  counted  from  Dhanishta. 

•  •        .     . '        .  . ,     .  ~ 

NOTES. 

The  name  is  the  name  given  to  a  person  at  the  Nama- 
karana  ceremony.  A  short  vowel  sound  is  counted  as  one 
.Matra-and  a  long  vowel  sound  is  counted  as  two,  and  a 
consonant  is  counted  as  half  a  Matra.  The  length  of 
the  shadow  of  a  twelve  inch  Sanku  shall  be  added  in 
inches. 

16.  .The  Dik  numbers  are  : 


East  2 

S.  East  .               3 

South  14 

S.West  10 


West 
N.  West 
North 
N.  East 


Multiply  by  15  the  number  for  the  Dik  or  direction  which 
the  querent  faces  ;  add  to  the  product  the  number  of 
persons  facing  the  same  Dik,  divide  the  sum  by  27.  The 
remainder  will  give  the  Nakshatra  of  the  person  from 
Dhaiii'shta". 

NOTES. 

This  stanza  contains  another  process  again  to  discover 
:  the  Nakshatra, 

17:  Thus  has  been  stated  by  me  various  processes  for 
the  construction  of  a  lost  horoscope.  Intelligent  pupils 
shall  study  them  carefully  and  use  them. 


CH.  XXVII.]  *Brihat  Jdtaka.  237 

CHAPTER  XXVII.     ; 
On   The  Drekkanas. 

1.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  sign  Aries  is  a  man  with  a 
white  cloth  tied  round  his  loins,  black,  facing  a  person   as 
if  able  to  protect  him,  of  fearful  appearance  and  of  red 
eyes  and  holding  an  axe  in  his  hand. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  is  armed. 
Mars  is  its  lord. 

2.  According  to  Yavanachariar,  the  2nd  Drekkana  of 
sign  Aries  is  a  woman  fond  of  ornaments  and  sweetmeats, 
with  a  pot-like  belly,  of  the  face  of  a  horse,   thirsty,  and 
single-legged. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman  and  of  a 
quadruped  ;  the  face  resembles  that  of  a  bird  also.  The 
Sun  is  its  lord. 

3.  The  3rd    Drekkana   of  Aries  is  a  man  of  wicked 
nature,  learned  in  the  arts,  of  a  brown  colorj  fond  of  work, 
failing  in  his  .attempts  to  carry  out  a  work,   holding  up  a 
stick  in  his  hand,  dressed  in  a  red  garment  and  angry.    1 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  is  armed. 
Jupiter  is  its  lord. 

4.  The  1st   Drefckana  of  Sign  Taurus  is  a   woman 
with  hairs  cut  and  growing  in  curls,  with  a  pot-like  belly, 
dressed  in  a  burnt  garment,  thirsty,  and  fond  of  food  and 
ornaments. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  isof  theshapeof  a  woman  and  carries 
fire.  Venus  is  its  lord- 

5.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign  Taurus  is  a  man  skilled 
In  works  connected   with  agriculture/   grain,  house,  cows, 


238  .Brihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XXVII. 

music,  dance,  painting,  writing  and  the  like,  skilled  at  the 
plough  and  in  works  connected  with  a  conveyance,  with 
a  neck  bent  like  that  of  the  bullock,  thirsty,  with  a  face 
like  that  of  the  rain  and  dressed  in  dirty  garments. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  both  a  man  and  a 
quadruped.     Mercury  is  its  lord. 

6.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  sign  Taurus  is  a  man  with  a 
body  resembling  that  of  an  elephant,  with  large  teeth,  with 
feet  resembling  those   of  the  camel,   of  a   brown   color, 
attached  to  the  ram  and  to  the  animals  of  the  forest. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is   both   of  human   and    quadruped 
shape.     Saturn  is  its  lord. 

7.  The  1st  Drekkana   of  sign   Gemini  is  a  woman 
fond  of  needle  work,  beautiful,    fond  of  decoration,  with- 
out children,  with  raised  hands,  having  attained  puberty 
and  full -of  lustful  thoughts. 

NOTES- 

This  Drekkana  is   of  the  shape  of  a   woman.     Mer- 
cury is  its  lord. 

8.  The  2nd   Drekkana  of  sign   Gemini   is   a  man 
residing  in. a  flower  garden,  wearing  a  mail  coat,  holding 
a  bow  in  his  hand,  fond  of  fight,  carrying  arrows,  his  face 
•being  like  that  of  a  Garuda  (Brahmani  kite),  his  thoughts 
directed  .to  play,  children,   ornaments  and  wealth. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkaua  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  is  arm- 
ed.    It  .is  also  of  the  shape  of  a  bird.     Venus  is  its  lord. 

9.  The   3rd  Drekkana  of  sign   Gemini   is  a  man 
wearing   ornaments,   possessing   many   gems,   wearing  a 
mail  coat  and  target,  carrying  a  bow  in  his  hand,  learned 
in  all  the  arts  and  a  literary  writer. 


CH.  XXVII.]  Brihat  Jdtaka,  239 

NOTES, 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  is  arm- 
ed.    Saturn  is  its  lord. 

10.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  Cancer  is  a   man  earring 
leaves,  roots  and  fruits,  has  a  body  resembling  that  of  the 
elephant ;   lives  in  a  forest  near  sandal   trees,  has  feet   as 
large  as  that  of  the  camel,  has  a  face  like  that  of  the  hog 
and  a  neck  like  that  of  a  horse. 

.  NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  quadruped.     The 
Moon  is  its  lord. 

11.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign   Cancer  is  a  woman 
wearing  in  her  head  lotus  flowers,  carrying  a  snake,  hard- 
hearted, young,  crying  in  a  forest  and  holding^  branch 
of  the  Palasa  tree  in  her  hand. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman.     Mars  is 
its  lord. 

12.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  sign  Cancer  is  a  man  sur- 
rounded by  a  snake,  sailing  in  a   boat  in  the   sea   on   ac- 
count of  procuring  ornaments  for   his  wife,  wearing  orna- 
ments made  of  gold  and  with  a  flat  face. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and   a 
snake.    Jupiter  is  its  lord. 

13.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  sign   Leo  is  a  man  of  the 
shape  of  a  vulture  and  a  jackal,    seated   on  the   top  of  a 
Salmalitree,  resembling  a  dog  in  appearance   and  is  also 
of  the   shape   of  a  man   dressed   in   dirty  garments  and 
separated  from  his  parents  and  crying  aloud. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man,  a  quadruped 
mid  a  bird,    The  Sun  is  its  lord. 


240  Bfihat  Jdtaka.,  [Cn.  XXyil, 

14.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign  L,eo  is  a  man  of  the 
shape  of  a  horse,   wearing  a  slightly   white    garland   of 
flowers   in   the   head   and   covered  with   deer   skin   and 
flannel,   unapproachable   like   the  lion,  holding  a  bow  in 
his  hand  and  with  a  bent  nose. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  is  armed. 
Jupiter  is  its  lord. 

15.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  L,.eo   is   a  man   with   the 
face  of  a  bear,  the  pranks  of  a  monkey,  with  a  club  in  his 
hand  carrying  fruits  and  meats,  with   a  long   beard   and 
whiskers  and  with  curling  hairs. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  a  qua- 
druped and  is  armed.    Mars  is  its  lord. 

16.  The  1st  Drekkaua  of  sign  Virgo  is  a  virgin  girl 
carrying  a  pot  filled  with   flowers,   dressed   in  dirty   gar- 
ments and  fond  of  cloths  and  wealth  and  proceeding  to  the 
house  of  her  preceptor. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman.    Mercury 
is  its  lord. 

17.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign  Virgo  is  a  man  hold- 
ing a  pen  in  his  hand,  black,    with   cloth   tied   round  his 
head,  examining  items  of  receipt  and  expenditure,   with  a 
large  bow  in  his  hand  and  covered  with  hairs  all  over  his 
body. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  is  armed, 
Saturn  is  its  lord. 

18.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  sign  Virgo  is  a  woman  of 
yellow  color,  dressed  in    white   silk   carrying   a  pot  and 
ladle  in  her  hands,  pure  and  proceeding  to  a  temple 


Cn.  XX VII.]  BrilMtJMaM.  241 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkaua  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman.     Venus 
is  its  lord. 

19.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  sign  Libra  is  a  man  hold- 
ing a  balance  in  one  hand,  skilled  in  weighing  and  measur- 
ing, with  articles  in  his  hand  to  be  weighed  or  measured 
and  with  his  thoughts  directed  to  the  determination  of 
the  price  of  such  articles. 

.   NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man.     Venus  is 
its  lord. 

20.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign  Libra  is  a  man   with 
the  face  of  a  vulture,  holding  a  pot  in  his   hand   wishing 
to  fall  down,  suffering  from  hunger  and  thirst  and   with 
his  thoughts  directed  to  his  wife  and  children, 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  a  bird. 
Saturn  is  its  lord. 

21.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  sign  Libra  is  a  man  with 
the  face  of  a  horse  adorned  with  gems,  scaring  animals  in 
the  woods  carrying  a  golden  quiver  and   wearing  a  mail 
coat,  carrying  fruits  and  meat,  monkey-like  in  appearance 
and  holding  a  bow  in  his  hand. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  and  a  quadru- 
ped.    Mercury  is  its  lord. 

22.  The  1st  Drekkana   of  sign   Scorpio  is  a  beauti- 
ful woman,  naked  and  without   ornaments,   quitting  her 
place,  landing  after  a  long  sea-voyage  and  with   a   snake 
coiled  round  her  legs. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman  and  a  ser- 
pent.    Mars  is  its  lord. 


242  Brihat  Jdtaka.  [Cn.  XXVII- 

23.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  Scorpio  is  a  woman  with 
a  body  like  that  of  a  turtle  or  pot,  desiring  the  comfort  of 
her  place  on  account  of  her  husband  and  with  serpent 
coiled  round  her  body. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape   of  a  woman   and  a 
serpent.    Jupiter  is  its  lord. 

24.  The   3rd    Drekkana   of   sign   Scorpio  is  a  lion 
with  a  broad  and  a  flat  face  like  that  of  a  turtle,    scaring 
dogs,  deer,  jackals  and  hogs  in  the  woods  and  lording 
over  a  country  abounding  in  sandal  trees. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  quadruped.    The 
Moon  is  its  lord. 

25.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  sign  Sagittari  is  a  man 
with  the  body  of  a  horse,  with  a  long   bow  in  his   hand, 
stopping  in  his  hermitage  and   watching  over  the  several 
articles  required  for  Sacrificial  rites. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of   the  shape  of  a  man  and  a 
quadruped  and  is  armed.    Jupiter  is  its  lord. 

26.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign  Sagittari  is  a  beauti- 
ful woman,   bright  as   gold  and   the   Champaka   flower, 
seated  on  a  throne  of  middle  size,  and  picking    up   the 
gems  of  the  Sea. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman.     Mars 
is  its  lord.  * 

27.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  Sagittari  is    a  man   with 
a  long  beard  and  whiskers,  of  the  color  of  gold   and  the 
Champaka  flower,  seated  on   a  throne  with  a  club  in  his 
hand  and  dressed  in  white  silk  and  4eer  skint 


CH.  XXVII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  243 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a   man    and   is 
armed.    The  Sun  is  its  lord. 

28.  The  first  Drekkana  of  sign  Capricorn  is  a  man 
covered  with  hairs,  strong  as   the   sea   monster,   with  a 
body  like  that  of  a  hog,  wearing  a   nose  string  and  fetters 
and  with  a  deformed  face. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkaua  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man  loaded  with 
fetters.    Saturn  is  its  lord. 

29.  The    2nd    Drekkana    of  sign  Capricorn   is  a 
woman  skilled  in  the  arts,    with  eyes  like    the    petals  of 
of  the  lotus,  black,   hankering  after  various  things   and 
wearing  ear  ornaments  made  of  iron. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkaua  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman.    Venus 
is  its  lord. 

30.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  sign  Capricorn  is  of  the 
shape  of  a  Kinnara  (a  celestial  being)  covered  with  flannel, 
with   a   quiver,  a  bow  and  a  mail   coat  and  carrying  on 
his  shoulders  a  pot  set  with  precious  stones. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  armed.     Mercury  is  its  lord. 

31.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  sign   Aquarius  is  a   man 
with  the  face   of  a  vulture,  with  his    thoughts   directed 
towards  the   gain  of  oil,  liquor,   water,  and    meals   and 
dressed  in  flannel,  silk  and  deer  skin. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man.    Saturn  is 
its  lord. 

32.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign  Aquarius  is  a  woman 
in  a  car  burnt  with  the  wood  of  Salmali  in  it  and  collect- 
ing iron,  living  iu  a  forest  and  dressed  in  dirty  garments 


244-  Brihat  Jatakd.  [C  H.  XXVII. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman  who 
carries  fire.  Mercury  is  its  lord. 

33.  The  3rd  Drekkaua  of  sign  Aquarius  is  a  black 
man,  with  hairs  in  his  ear,  wearing  a  crown  and  carrying 
bark,  leaves,  the  oil  of  bedellium,  iron  and  pots,  from  one 
place  to  another. 

NOTES- 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  man.  Venus  is  its 
lord. 

84-.  The  1st  Drekkana  of  Sign  Pisces  is  a  man  with 
the  vessels  of  sacrificial  rites,  post,  pearls,  gems  and  conch 
shells  in  his  hands,  carrying  ornaments  and  sailing  in  a 
boat  on  the  sea  for  the  purpose  of  decorating  his  wife. 

NOTES. 

Jupiter  is  the  lord  of  this  Drekkana. 

35.  The  2nd  Drekkana  of  sign   Pisces  is   a  woman 
with  a  long  flag-staff  and  banner,  sailing  in  a  boat  to  the 
other  shore  of  the  sea  accompanied  by  her  friends  and  with 
a  face  bright  as  the  Champaka  flower. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkana  is  of  the  shape  of  a  woman.  The 
Moon  is  its  lord. 

36.  The  3rd  Drekkana  of  sign  Pisces  is  a  man  with 
a  snake  coiled  round  him,  standing  naked  on  the  brink  of 
a  pit  in  a  forest,  suffering  from   thieves,   from   fire   and 
from  hunger  and  weeping. 

NOTES. 

This  Drekkaua  is  of  the  shape  of  a  snake.  Mars  is  its 
lord. 


Notes. — The  Author  has  stated  the  use  of  these  descrip- 
tions of  the  Drekkauas  in  his  Yatra.    If  the  Drekkaua  be 


CH.  XXVIII.]  Brihat  Jdtakd.  245 

of  agreeable  appearance,  carrying  fruits,  flowers,  gems  and 
pots  and  aspected  by  benefic  planets,  there  will  be  success. 
If  they  be  of  hideous  appearance,  armed  and  aspected  by 
malefic  planets,  there  will  be  disgrace  and  failure  ;  if  they 
carry  serpents  or  fetters,  there  will  be  delirium  and  im- 
prisonment. The  Drekkana  description  is  also  of  use  in 
tracing  out  thieves  according  to  Prithuyasas,  son  of  Vara- 
ha-Mihira,  in  his  Shatpanchasika,  a  work  on  Horary  As- 
trology (a). 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 
Conclusion. 

1,  2  &  3.     In  this  work   on  Jataka,  I  have  treated  of 
the  following  in  25th  Chapters. 

1.  Definitions  and  Elementary  principles  (Zodiacal). 

2.  Do  do  do  (Planetary). 

3.  On  Animal  and  Vegetable  Horoscopy. 

4.  On  Nisheka  kala  or  the  Time  of  conception. 

5.  On  Matters  connected  with  Birth  time. 

6.  On  Balarishta  or  Early  death. 

7.  On  Ayurdaya  or  the  Determination  of  the  length 
of  life. 

8.  On  Planetary  divisions  and  sub-divisions  of  life 
known  as  Dasas  and  Antardasas. 

9.  On  Ashtakavargas. 

10.  On  Avocation. 

1 1.  On  Raja  Yoga  or  the  Birth  of  Kings. 

12.  On  Nabhasa  Yogas. 

13.  On  Chandra  or  Lunar  Yogas. 

(a)     An  English  Translation  of  this  book  by  the  same  Translator,  with 
Sanskrit  Text,  may  be  obtained  from  the  '  Theosophist  Office,'  Adyar. 

There  are  actually  28  Chapters  in  this  book  including  the  con- 
cluding one.  Chapters  16  and  17  are  not  enumerated  by  Varahamihira. 
They  are  later  additions  from  the  other  works  of  the  Author,  the  former 
from  Brihat-Saiuhita  and  the  latter  from  Horaeara. 


246  Briliat  3atakd.  [Cn.  XXVIII. 

14.  On  Double  planetary  Yogas. 

15.  On  Ascetic  Yogas. 

16.  On  the  Nakshatras  or  the  Moon  in  the  Asterisms. 

17.  On  the  Moon  in  the  several  signs  of  the  Zodiac, 

1 8.  On  the  Sun,  Mars  and  other  planets  in  the  se- 
veral signs  of  the  Zodiac. 

19.  On  Planetary  Aspects. 

20.  On  the  Planets  in  the  Bhavas. 

21.  On  the  Planets  in  their  several  Vargas. 

22.  On  Miscellaneous  Yogas. 

23.  On  Malefic  Yogas. 

24.  On  the  Horoscopy  of  Women. 

25.  On  Death. 

26.  On  the  Discovery  of  a  lost  Horoscope. 

27.  On  the  Drekkanas. 

4-,  5  and    6.    I  shall  now  give  a  summary  of  the 
subjects  treated  of  in  my  work  on  Yarta. 
These  are — 

1.  Prasna  Prabheda. 

2.  Tithibala. 

3.  Nakshatrabhidhaua. 

4.  Varaphala. 

5.  Muhurta  Nirdesa. 

6.  Chandra  Bala. 

7.  Lagna  Nishaya. 

8.  Lagna  Bheda. 

9.  Grahasuhi. 
10.  Apavada. 
•11.  Misraka. 

12.  Tanuvepana. 

J  3.  Guhyakapuja. 


CH.  XXVIII]  BrihatMaU.  247 

14.  Swapna  (Dreams) 

15.  Snanavidhi  (Bath). 

16.  Graliayajna. 

17.  Prayana  (Travels). 

18.  Sakunaruta. 

I  have  also  treated  of  Vivahakala  and  Grahakaraua 
(Planets). 

The  last  of  the  above  subjects  has  been  separately 
treated  of  by  me  in  iny  Astronomical  work  known  as  Pan- 
chasiddhanta.  Thus  the  three  branches  of  the  Jyotisha 
Sastra,  viz.,  Astronomy,  Horoscopy  and  Samhita  (a),  have 
been  treated  of  by  me  for  the  benefit  of  intelligent 
students. 

7.  These  brief  works  have  been  written  by  me  on  a 
full  study  and  examination  of  the  elaborate  works   of  the 
ancient  writers.     If  any  important  points  b,e   found  omit- 
ted, I  crave  the  forbearance  of  the  learned  critics. 

8.  If  any  portion  of  the  Text  be  found   omitted    by 
the  writer  who  copied  or   the  teacher   wjio  taught,   the 
learned  will  kindly  supply  the  omission  setting  aside  all 
feelings  of  jealousy.     Again,  if  there  be  found  in  tfie  Text 
errors,  imperfections  or  omissions,  the  learned  will   kindly 
make    the    necessary    corrections  and   supply   what    is 
wanted. 

9.  Varaha  Mihira,  the  son  of  the  Brahmin  Aditya- 
dasa  from  whom  he  received  his  education,  obtained   the 
boon  of   knowledge    from   the   Sun    in   tlje   village  of 
Kapittha,  spent  his  days  in  the  court   of  Ujjaini    in  the 
province  of  Avanti  and  has  written   this   neajt   work   on 
Horoscopy  after  a  careful  examination  of  the  wor]cs  of  the 
ancient  sages  on  the  subject. 

(a)  Varaha-Mihira's  work  on  Astronomy  is  known  as  Pancha  Sjddhantika. 
An  English  Translation  of  this  work  by  Dr.  G.  Thibhaut  may  be  had  from 
Bombay.  His  works  on  Horoscopy  and  Samhita  are  known  as  the  Biihat- 
Jataka  and  the  Brihat-Samhita.  An  English  Translation  of  thpae  hooka 
may  be  obtained  from  the  Manager,  The  Theosophist  Office,  Advar. 


248  Brihat  Jdtakd.  [Cn.  XXVIII, 

10.  I  have  been  enabled  to  write  the  present  work 
by  the  grace  of  the  Sun,  of  Vasishtha,  and  of  Adityadasa, 
worshipped  by  ine.  Salutation  to  the  Ancient  Writers  of 
Horoscopy. 

End  of  Uttarabhaga  (Part  II> 


FINIS. 


APPENDIX. 

Required  the  Lagna  Sphutam,  that  is,  the  Longitude  of 
the  Ascendant  at  39  gh.  3ov.  gh.  from  Sunrise  on  Friday  the 
28th  May  1886,  for  a  place  whose  Latitude  is  11°. 

From  the  Almanac  we  find  that  the  Sun  entered  Tau- 
rus at  56  gh.  4ov.  gh.  on  the  i2th  May,  and  quits  the  sign  at 
12.  gh.  27 v.  gh.  on  the  i3th  June. 

Therefore  time  taken  by  the  Sun  to  move  through  sign 
Taurus, 

=  3  gh.  2ov.  gh.  +  3i  days  +  12  gh.  27 v.  gh. 
=  31  days  15  gh.  47V.  gh.  =  i,  12,  soov.  ghs. 
Time  from  Sun-rise  on  the  28th  May  to  the  end  of  the 
Sun's  course  through  Taurus  =  16  days  12  gh.  27 v.  gh. 

=  58,327V.  ghs. 

Time  of  Oblique  Ascension  of )  =  5  gh.  6v.  gh. 
Taurus  for  Latitude  11°  {  =3o6v.  gb.(vide  Table  A). 

Therefore,  time  of  Oblique  ascension  of  the  portion  of 
Taurus  to  be  passed  over  by  the  Sun  on  the  morning  of  the 
306  x  58,327 

28th  = 2gh.  39V.  gh. 

1,12,500 

Subtracting  this  from  39gh.  3ov.  gh.  we  get  time  of 
Oblique  Ascension  of  signs  from  Gemini  =39  gh.  3ov.  gh. 
-  2gh.  39V.  gh  =  36  gh.  5iv.  gh. 

From  table  B  we  find  that  time  of  oblique  ascension  of 
signs  for  Gemini  to  Scorpio  =  31  gh.  36v.  gh. 

Therefore  time  of  Oblique  Ascension'of'portion  Sagittari 
that  has  risen  above  the  horizon. 

=  36  gh.  5  iv.  gh.— 31  gh.  36v.  gh. 
-   5  gh.  1 5v.  gh.=3i5v.  gh. 

Time  of  oblique  ascension  of  the  degrees  of  Sagittari  for 
Latitude  11°,  is  5  gh.  21  v.  gh.  (Vide  Table  A)-32r.v.  gh. 

Therefore  portion  of  Sagittari  that  has   risen    above  the 
30x315 

horizon  = 29°  26',  Sagittari  being  the  9th  sign  from 

321 
Aries. 

Lagna  Sphutam  required  is  8s  29°  26'. 

The  Bhavasphutam  process  is  too  complicated  to  be  given 
here.  The  Reader  is  referred  to  Baskaracharya's  work  on 
Astronomy. 


2 

TO  FIND  OUT  THE  CORRECT  LOCAL  TIME 

I.  BY  DAY. 


Draw  a  pretty  large  semi-circle  on  each  side  of  a  well- 
planed  and  smooth  oblongular  plank.  Place  its  edge  along 
a  straight  line  drawn  east  to  west  on  a  smooth  level  ground, 
the  plank  being  inclined  at  an  angle  with  the  plane  of  the 
horizon,  equal  to  the  complement  of  the  Latitude  of  the 
place,  so  that  a  straight  needle  fixed  at  the  centre  of  the 
semi-circle  and  at  right  angles  to  the  plane  of  the  plank 
will  point  to  the  Pole  and  the  plane  of  the  plank  will  be 
parallel  to  the  plane  of  the  Equator.  The  edge  of  an  ob- 
longular piece  of  wood  placed  at  the  centre  will  serve  as  well 
as  a  needle.  Now  divide  the  semi-circle  into  12  equal  parts, 
marking  the  points  of  division  with  the  figures  from  6  down 
to  12  and  from  12  up  to  6.  The  .divisions  represent  the 
hours.  If  the  diameter  be  about  a  cubit  in  length  each 
division  may  further  be  divided  into  30  or  60  equal  parts,  so 
that  the  position  of  the  shadow  of  the  needle  will  give  the 
time  within  a  minute.  Now  apply  the  equation  of  time  and 
the  result  will  be  the  local  clock  time  or  the  mean  solar 
time  required.  This  can  be  converted  into  Ghatikas  and 
Vighatikas  from  Sun  Rise  from  the  table  showing  the  time  of 
Sun  Rise  for  each  day. 

NOTES. 

(1)  The  latitude  of  the  place  may  be  found   from  a 
pretty   good  Atlas  or  it  may  be  ascertaind   by  noting   the 
altitude  of  the  Pole-star  both  at  the  time  of  its  culmination 
and  the  time  of  its  depression  and  taking  the  mean. 

(2)  The  complement  of  the    angle  of  latitude  may  be 
marked  on  a  piece  of  solid  wood  and  the  portion  may  be  cut 
out  in  the    shape  of  a  fine  wedge  and  made  to  support  the 
plank  of  the  inclined  dial. 

(3)  The  east  and  west  line  may  be  marked  pretty  cor- 
rectly with    the   help  of  a    mariner's    compass   or  it  may  be 
found  by  marking  the   two  points   of    contact  of  the  end  of 
the  shadow  of  a  straight  rod  fixed  vertically  at  the   centre  of 
a  circle    drawn  on  a    smooth,   horizontal  surface,    with  the 
circumference  of  the  circle  both  before  and  after  mid-day 
the  line  joining  the  two  points  being  due  east  and  west. 

(4)  A  level,  horizontal  ground  .may  be  prepared  with 
the  help  of  a  spirit-level. 


II.    AT  NIGHT. 

Attach  equal  weights  to  the  ends  of  a  long  fine  string 
and  throw  the  string  over  two  fine  metallic  wires  each  about 
a  foot  in  length  fixed  rigidly  between  supports  and  at  the 
height  of  about  5  or  6  feet  from  the  ground,  running  east 
to  west,  and  about  5  or  6  feet  apart  from  each  other.  Now 
the  two  plum  blines  are  certainly  vertical,  and  the  plane  pass- 
ing through  them  will  be  a  vertical  plane.  This  plane  may 
be  made  to  pass  through  the  Pole  star  about  the  time  of  its 
cul  mi  nation  or  depression  by  slightly  moving  the  string 
over  one  of  the  wires  to  the  east  or  west  till  the  two  plum- 
lines  hide  the  Pole-star  to  an  observer  stationed  2  or  3  feet 
to  the  South  of  the  southern  plumbline  and  looking  with 
one  eye,  the  other  eye  being  closed.  We  have  thus  secured 
the  plane  of  the  meridian.  Now  attach  the  ends  of  a 
slightly  tight  string  to  the  two  plumblines  about  their 
middle  points.  The  observer  may  now  lie  down  below,  with 
his  face  turned  up,  the  head  supported  by  a  pillow  and  one 
eye  placed  exactly  under  the  two  strings  running  noith  and 
south  so  that  the  upper  string  is  wholly  concealed  by  the 
lower  and  observe  the  transit  of  stars  across  the  strings. 
The  Almanac  gives  the  time  of  culmination  of  the  Vernal 
Equinox  for  each  day  of  the  year  and  also  the  times  at  which 
particular  stars  culminate  after  the  culmination  of  the  Vernal 
Equinox.  If  the  two  times  be  added,  we  get  the  time  of 
culmination  of  a  particular  star  from  12  noon  that  day. 
But  if  the  sum  exceed  24  hours  then  subtract  from  it  23 
hours  and  56  minutes,  the  remainder  will  be  the  time  of 
culmination  of  the  Star  froin  12  noon  that  day. 


«S      rf 


•  § 

J3       >rt 

*•    s  S 

«M      e3  « 

09  *** 

_,        "j  g^ 

•oo    ^  || 

*3    '-5  as 

g  ^ 


c  «  «* 

2  ® 

to  "OJ3  Tt 

c  «  fi 

(1)  T3  03 

«  CJ  «0 

^f  cO  C9 


§       I 

«    « 


l.i 

<5  >- 


• 

0  « 


Sagi 


G 


5 


T*«t««ccciteissvi<Ni-i(M5<ii 


««  «  r:  sc  ec 


o  >c  ic  m 


i-it-ii-1i-li-l94OiS4OIOll 


eqNNNNiNsosow 


O'-«<N»-fi.i<ct^xc5C>--i<N~-Hii;ct~xc-.  O--efiec*fic<ot>-Xc:O'-'!N 

r«N|C<IC^JC^C<l7^^l>lQ44<>JCCCCCCO'?CCfCCCCC^CO1^^J'T^^'^t''^'>^Tj*Tjf^JllCOiC 


«    CC 


1~    Li    I 
•*    «    « 


o  eg  »o  «••  o  w  »o  oc 


e  e  t^  t»t> 


sqirsx— 'ccsocr.  ?s 


o  -< 
rj«^^ 


N  co  ^  LT  -^  t»  x  3s  o  —  i  M  ec  •*  17  --c  r^  x  ~.  c.  1-1  rj  «  —  i- 


a 
*P 

09 
I 


fi- 

OJ 


c 
g 

O 

>» 

S" 

* 


1 

"o. 

* 


o 

c. 


& 


•^        4} 


^.  o 


g 

M 

09 


•a  • 

P<  F1 

cs  g 
o  § 


CD 


I 


i-lr-l          ©iO 


r-l  «>-ir-lf-l  COl-liM 


«         CO  IN  <M  SM  r-l  r-i 


C5  CO  CM  Us|  r-l  i— I          i^ 


<.\4  o  uj  CM        tu  irj  ^  i—  i  10 


U         CM  r-l  i— I 


CO  OS  rl  IQ  N          i—  ( 


CO         U3CN          i.7  lO  T  r-i  O 
U  U3  ^1  Tf  vw  CO  UM  W  rH  r-l 


lfH    g 


09 

02 

Q 


cJ 

•S 


oaOOOOOOCOO 

a 


s, 
s 

rt 


•00 

e 


09 


c 


g 


Q  " 


OOCOOOOOi-H 


•8JB9A  £ 


ung 


.- 

illllllll 


91  Tii{i3j£ 


EQUATION  OF  TIME. 

b 
E 

Q 

^•t<>fSA'4i4P9iI<pCI44!<Dt*C09»9O>OQOi9OOO9Oa>a>dpfr>tp<ti 

ThrlL^M          COrH-^f-ilOCMONlONl-ICO          CO          CO          CO          CO         'N'-O'Nl.OS^Ce 

7^                                                                                                  1        + 

> 

O 

B:aiOOC5l^-i<'-it>N>oXi-iNCOeCr-iCil^COXCiSt>OCO"*U5«OU'5'*5<> 

•"rHININrtr^r-lT-                     Ift    TT    •<<    CO   94    fH            -^CON            OfOCM            -<?-(N             T»-N 

1 

tf 

m-eo>c«-MOXicwx,^o^x?iwr-a:o-i^-ox>o*ixcoxNwoo 

PS 
o 

g-00--H-i-HN*IN«»MC9*^-f^*iO«0*«,OiOieWW»W«« 

cJ 

••H 

u 

o 

1 

•g 

. 

o.CONN--H^NNCOCO-fO«Dt-XOO'MCOtlOOCCl-t-XXXt.t- 

— 

3 

a. 

H 

00 

S                                                                                                                                                                            ""PI 
1 

» 

s 

H 

AUGUST. 

mcocv  •*O3cot^ooqcoTp>ncoo-<ffOiHxiowxcoxcot^^'*i>CS'j-tcD 

lOiO'**r5K>C>J<->         iO-*r7<N»-<         -*cOiM         mcOiN         «O  CO  <H         •*»! 

£ 

+ 

•s 

^ 

„;  IK  to  t--  x  x  x  x  i>-  cc  ^  co  o  t^  *  o  o  w  i»  1-1  is  x  o  n  •*  LI  o  •*  co  n  c  •  i^- 

1 

'S 

ri 

b 

i-» 

S  w 

3 
o< 
H 

H 

Z 

_:iO«OO!O«D>OH'COr-lOX«OCOr-l«qmQO—  4-*t-«OCO^CVNT)<l>.O'-1CO 
™W>-I         lS^-COiMi-<         lOCOOJrl         r-IIMCOie         i-ICO^m         NCO*         t-i  CM 

0 

j3 

b 

•» 

s 
1                                    1  + 

-u 

•00 

C 
•  — 

g 

•< 
S 

g  CO   CO  CO  CO 

1 

i 

J 
as 

"SZZSS^SSZS^^SSSSZZSZSSZSSSS 

Q 

01 

< 

K 

+                                       +  \ 

« 

2 
e* 

AFCH. 

•  oxioe<ixcoa>-fxeoi>o-t<t^oiMot-a5-Heoio!^xop-cooccxr> 

COi-l          lOi';C<I          «ft«N          OCCi-l          r*M          TJI  M   —  •  l«  CO  r-l          -*W          -*•   »l  1-1 

H 

J3 

+ 

S3 

mi>io(MXroX'«<Jiot«QCO3Osoo  !»-*•'—  i>coX'MCOC5'-iNcoi*-fcoeii 

ijiiO               i-ii-i  (MiMijqiNSMe<lNO4N<MrHr-               ia^t-*cOiMi-i         »O  •* 

+ 

S'l  AKV. 

..-•<Ni-HC5i>-«-^t^ecxcot^i-i^oxo>cooit>»OMQCcot^--T»<^i^xx 

•"CO          (MlOCqi-Ji-HTjl          COlOlM^          <M  •<*  1—  1  CO   *          IM^lOrHSlTj'ia          »-i(NCO 

•« 

+ 

si 

p-««*i«01>XaOP*N«-»SWt-«00-«NW<*W<»^»050pH 

•< 

TABLE  E  :  Showing  Mitra  (Friend),  Satru  (Enemy),  and 
Sama  (Neutral)  of  Planets. 


Planets. 

Mitra  Friend. 

Satru  (Enemy). 

Sama  (Neutral). 

Sun 

Moon,  Mars  Jupiter 

Saturn,  Venus. 

Mercury. 

Moon 

Sun,  Mercury 

None. 

Mars,  Jupiter,  Venus. 

Mars 

Sun  Moon,  Jupiter 

Mercury. 

SaturnVenus,  Saturn. 

Mercury 

Sun  Venus 

Moon. 

Mars  Jupiter,  Saturn. 

Jupiter 

Sun,  Moon,  Mars 

Mercury  Venus. 

Saturn. 

Venus 

Mercury  Saturn 

Sun  Moon. 

Mars  Jupiter. 

Saturn 

Mercury  Venus 

Sun  Moon,  Mars. 

Jupiter. 

TABLE  F  :    Showing  the  times  at  which  the  seYeral  stars 
culminate  after  the  culmination  of  the  Vernal  Equinox. 


Stars. 

Times. 

Stars, 

Times. 

h.      m. 

h.      m. 

Aswini               ... 

1       49 

Apar 

., 

12       51 

Bharani 

2       44 

Apamvat 

33        5 

Krittika 

-t 

3       42 

Chitra 

13      20 

Rohini 

4       31 

Vasishtta 

.. 

13      20 

Agni 

5       20 

Marichi 

13      44 

Mrigasirsha 

.. 

5       27 

Swati 

14       11 

Ardra                  ... 

5       60 

Visakha 

.. 

14       46 

Prajapati 

5       49 

Anuradha 

16         0 

Agastya 

6       22 

Jyeshta 

16      24 

Mrigavyasa 

6       41 

Moo  la 

17       36 

Punarvasu 

7       40 

P.  Ashadba 

. 

18      15 

Pusbya 

. 

8       36 

Abhijit 

18      34 

Aslesha 

8       42 

U.  Ashadha 

.. 

18       40 

Magha 

10         3 

Sravana 

19      46 

Pulaha 

10       56 

Sravishta 

. 

20      35 

Kratu 

. 

10       58 

Sataya 

. 

.. 

22      48 

P.  Phalguni       ... 

11        9 

P.  Bhadradada 

.. 

23        0 

U.  Phalguni 

. 

11       44 

U.  Bhadrapada 

0         4 

Pulastya 

. 

11       49 

Revati 

.. 

1         7 

Atri 

w- 

12         7 

Dhruva  (Pole  Star) 

.. 

1       25 

Hasta 

.. 

12       29 

****** 

Angiras 

•• 

12      50 

10 

TABLE  G  :  Showing  the  time  of  culmination  of  the  Sun 
and  the  Vernal  Equinox. 


Month.      Date. 

Sun's 
culmina- 
tion. 

Culmina- 
tion of  V. 
equinox- 

Month       Date. 

S«n's 
culmina- 
tion. 

Culmina- 
tion of  V. 
equinox. 

h.      TO. 

h,     m- 

hi     m. 

h.     m. 

January             2 

12      4 

5     18 

July                     2 

12      4 

17    21 

10 

7 

4     46 

10 

5 

16     50 

18 

10 

4     15 

18 

6 

16     18 

26 

12 

3     43 

26 

6 

IE     47 

February           3 

14 

3     12 

August              3 

6 

15    15 

11 

14 

2     40 

11 

5 

14    44 

9 

14 

2      9 

19 

4 

14     12 

27 

13 

1     37 

27 

2 

13     41 

March                6 

11 

1      6 

September        4 

11     59 

13      9 

14 

9 

0     34 

12 

56 

12    38 

22 

7 

0      3 

20 

54 

12      6 

30 

5 

23     31 

28 

51 

11     35 

April                  7 

2 

23      „ 

October            6 

48 

11      3 

13 

1 

22     37 

14 

46 

10     31 

21 

11     59 

22       5 

22 

45 

10     „ 

29 

57 

21     34 

30 

44 

9    28 

May                   7 

56 

21      2 

November         7 

44 

8    57 

15 

56 

20    31 

15 

45 

8     25 

23 

57 

19     59 

23 

46 

7     54 

31 

57 

19     28 

December         1 

49 

7     22 

June                   8 

59 

18     56 

9 

52 

6    £1 

16 

12      0 

18    25 

17 

56 

6     19 

24 

12      2 

17     53 

25 

12       0 

5    48 

Note. — As  the  Vernal  Equinox  is  subject  to  a  retrograde  motion  of  over 
50  seconds  a  year,  tables  F.  and  G.  will  have  to  be  proposed  from  the 
Almanac  for  the  year. 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

405  Hilgard  Avenue,  Los  Angeles,  CA  90024-1388 

Return  this  material  to  the  library 

from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


A    000106157     1 


