0 


Japan's  Comic  Verse 

f  A  MAD  IN 
WTRANSla  TION 

\Reader 


bin  d.  gill 


paraverse  press 

Copyrighted  material 


Cover  photo.  No,  it  is  not  gallows  humor.  The  rope  is  graced  by  a  knot  called  a 
monkey's  paw  (or  monkey  fist,  etc.)  that  serves  as  both  an  ornament  and  a  built-in 
weight  for  throwability.  This  one  was  found  on  the  beach  of  Key  Biscayne,  Florida, 
and  digitally  captured  by  a  flat-bed  scanner  in  the  dark.  While,  in  the  Sinosphere,  the 
monkey  represents  the  ego  controlling  the  id,  a  horse,  the  author,  who  happens  to  be 
his  own  editor  and  book-designer,  rightly  or  wrongly  thinks  of  all  fellow  primates  as 
comics  at  heart  and  the  art  of  mad  translation  fEIR  as  the  best  of  all  monkey  business. 


3 


to  all 
who  let 
the  grass 
grow  up  be- 
tween the  cracks 


4 


iza  kodomo  tawawaza  na  se  so  ametsuchi  no 
Well,  kids,  crazy  doings  not-do-not+emph  heaven-earth's 
katameshi  kuni  zo  yamato  shimane  wa 
solidified  country!  yamato  isle-root-as-for 

mwM&mz  j^mrn  #4487 

From  a  Minister  to  his  men 
speaking  for  the  Empress 
who  expected  big  things 

♦ 

Get  with  it,  Kiddos, 
Stop  thy  craziness,  start  work! 

Is  this  not  Yamato, 
the  Isle  where  land  and  sky 
out  of  murk  solidified? 


Yeah,  right! 


I  do  not  know  if  Minister  Fujiwara  Sonosuke  sang  out  this  waka  to  his  cabinet  who  were 
out  in  the  garden  playing  kemari  (keep-the-ball-in-the-air-as-long-as-you-can-kick-it-up), 
go  (the  world's  top  intellectual  board-game,  a  Chinese  invention),  chugalugging  sake, 
singing  dirty  songs  or  other  activities  all  of  which  any  sane  and  healthy  man  enjoys,  or, 
instead,  was  written  down  and  a  copy  sent  to  each  kodomo  to  call  them  back  from  their 
vacations  on  Day-18  of  Month-11  of  the  Founding  Year  of  the  Tenbyohoji  ^^3?^  or 
Heaven's  Fair  Treasure  Letter  era,  i.e.,  151  anno  Domini;  but,  I  do  know  that  the  grand 
dreams  of  the  Empress  Koken  #111^11  (718-770)  did  not  come  to  fruition,  or  at  least 
created  so  much  discord  she  became  the  excuse  for  ending  the  practice  of  female  heads  of 
state  in  Japan!  Maybe,  the  men  -  kids/children  is  a  paternalistic  term  of  endearment 
Basho  would  later  use  to  address  his  disciples,  calling  on  them  to  run  about  in  the  hail  - 
should  have  been  left  to  their  tawawaza  or  horse-play,  which  I  translated  as  "craziness" 
because  of  the  character  we  will  see  a  lot  of  in  this  book.  The  katameshi,  "solidified" 
or  "made  stable"  seems  a  good  antithesis  for  the  same,  and  the  "murk"  was  added  less  for 
the  rhyme  with  "work"  (also  added  in  lieu  of  a  preface),  then  because  readers  unfamiliar 
with  the  Japanese  myth  referred  to  may  have  a  concept  of  The  Beginning  that  differs 
from  one  where  heaven  and  earth  are  not  created,  or  set  into  motion,  but  fertilized  and/or 
congealed.  That  dripping  and  stirring  (a  jeweled  halberd  in  the  sea)  is  halfway  to  the 
nature  of  translation,  which,  mad  or  not,  is  neither  creation  nor  procreation,  but  recreation. 


Fig.  109 


*  The  man  walking  about  "wearing  the  carapace  of  the  gigantic  crab  on  his 
head"  in  lieu  of  the  hat  (that  Japanese  did  not  wear  as  commonly  as  "we"  did  at 
the  time)  was  sketched  by  Edward  Morse  in  the  19c  {Japan  Day  by  Day,  my 
shading  added).  Observed  that  "many  looked  at  the  man  as  he  passed  and  some 
smiled,"  he  generalized:  "An  illustration  of  the  tolerance  of  the  people  and  the 
good  manners  of  the  children  is  shown  in  the  fact  that  no  matter  how  grotesque 
or  odd  some  of  the  people  appear  in  dress,  no  one  shouted  at  them,  laughs  at 
them,  or  disturbs  them  in  any  way. "  A  similar  eccentric  in  the  United  States 
would  not  only  have  been  jeered  at,  but  risked  bodily  harm.  Even  as  late  as  the 
early- 1 960 's,  one  could  be  assaulted  for  wearing  odd  clothing  or  long  hair  (Or, 
was  that  just  true  in  the  South?  L.D.  reports  her  father  wore  what  might  be  called 
a  Davy  Crockett  cap  for  the  seashore,  namely  a  horseshoe  crab  -  helmet-crab  in 
Japanese!  -  into  Cape  Cod  shops  without  incident).  Japanese  in  the  USA  in  the 
late- 19c  wrote  of  being  physically  attacked  merely  for  being  different,  unlike  the 
case  in  England,  where  people  were  kind  to  unfamiliar  visitors.  Usanians  were 
more  tolerant  of  oddity  in  print,  but  not  if  it  touched  upon  what  mattered  to  them. 
Tom  Paine  was  all  but  tarred  and  feathered  for  his  free-thinking;  Mark  Twain 
dared  not  publish  his  Letters  From  the  Earth  for  fear  of  the  same  or  worse. 


Japan's  Comic  Verse 

A  Mad  in 
Trans LATI0N 

Reader 


robin  d.  gill 


All 
translations 

are  by  the  author 
unless  otherwise  specified. 


Logophile  Lafcadio  Hearn  once  wrote,  "  Words  will  eventually  have  their  rights 
recognized  by  the  people.  "  —  Our  radically  creative  nonfiction  sets  them  free 
to  play  and  grow  in  a  garden  of  fanciful  thought  far  from  the  well-crafted, 
beautiful  but  utterly  empty  journalism  &  plodding  personal  'reality' 
narratives  taught  to  a  generation  of  Usanian  writers,  but  close 
to  the  playful  Aubrey,  Borges,  Chesterton,  Darwin  (Erasmus), 
Lucretius,  Montaigne,  Newcastle  (Duchess  of  ~),  Ota, 
Plutarch,  Rabelais,  Sterne,  Twain,  Wilde,  .  .  .  etc. 
Whatever  the  subject  happens  to  be,  our  books 
hold  something  of  broad  interest  -  ideas. 

© 
2009 
paraverse  press 
all  rights  reserved 

But,  please  quote  freely,  so  long  as  you  cite 
this  book  and  take  care  to  check  the  Errata 

at  http://paraverse.org 

Again,  we  invite  the  LC  to  help  us  catalog,  meanwhile 
please  enjoy  our  Publisher's  Cataloging-in-Publication: 

Kyoka,  Japan 's  Comic  Verse: 
A  Mad  in  Translation  Reader 

robin  d  gill  a.k.a.  ifcJsS 

ISBN  #  0-9840923-0-7  (pbk) 
13-digit:  978-0-9840923-0-7 

1 .  Japanese  poetry  -  comic  -  translations  into  English  2.  English  poetry  -  comic  -  translations 
from  Japanese.  3.  Kyoka  (mad  poems)  -  8c  ~  19c.   4.  Waka  -  8c  ~  19c.   5.  Kyoku  (kyoka-like 
haiku).  6.  Japanese  poets  -  Bokuyo,  Lady  Daibu,  Getsudoken,  Henjo,  Ikkyu,  Lady  Ise,  Issa,  Jakuren, 
Jihinari,  JinkyCi,  Kisshu,  Kofu,  Kotomichi,  Magao,  Meshimori,  Mitoku,  (A.)  Motokata,  Munenaga, 
Ryokan,  Saigyo,  Jihinari,  Ryokan,  Sakuden,  Sanekata,  Sanetaka,  Sengai,  (I.)  Shikibu,  Shokusanjin 
(aka  Ota  Nanpo),  Shunzei,  Socho,  Sosei,  Tabito,  Takuan,  Teiryu,  Teitoku,  Tameie,  Tsurayuki, 
Yakamochi,  Yayu,  Yomo  no  Akara  (Ota  Nanpo),  Yuchoro.  7.  Squibs  -  Asahi  Bunzaemon. 
8.  Translation  -  multiple,  composite  and  paraverse  readings  -  theory  and  practice. 

1.  Gill,  Robin  D.  =SfVU  •  U  tf  V  1951- 

2.  digest  version  of  Mad  In  Translation 

3.  includes  original  Japanese  poems  and  indices 

1st  edition:  fall,  2009 

Printed  by  Lightning  Source 
in  the  United  States  and  United  Kingdom. 
Distributed  by  Ingram,  Baker  &  Taylor,  etc.. 
Available  from  Amazon,  Barnes  &  Noble  &  elsewhere. 

For  more  information,  please  visit  our  web  site,  paraverse.org. 
For  further  questions,  contact  the  author  at  a  social  network  site 
or  uncoolwabin@hotmail.com,  or  whatever  e-mail  address  is 
given  at  the  site  (&  good  luck).  Forget  snail-mail.  As 
it  stands,  your  poor  author-publisher  is  a  snail. 


from  Monster  to  Reader 


A  kyoka  £Effc  is  a  31-mora  (short-syllable)  comic  or  otherwise 
novel  poem  that  may  be  thought  of  as  the  reverse  side  of  the 
revered  classic  waka.  The  first  character,  usually  translated  as 
mad,  "mad-cap"  or  "comic,  when  referring  to  poetry,  includes 
connotations  of  the  insane,  playful,  errant,  free,  wild,  outrageous 
and  self-deprecatory.  In  the  case  of  this  book,  it  also  refers  to 
the  extreme,  some  might  call  excessive,  liberties  taken  by  your 
translator,  whose  excuse  is  that,  because  English  and  Japanese 
are  mutually  exotic,  there  is  more  re-creation  than  ferrying  - 
translation  literally  means  "carried  across  "  -  going  on,  anyway. 
Indeed,  he  has  coined  a  new  word  for  this  out-of-order  yet 
needed  art  in  Japanese.  It  is  $E|R  ('mad  translation')  or  kyoyaku. 

The  mother  lode,  Mad  in  Translation  -  a  thousand  years  of 
kyoka,  comic  Japanese  poetry  in  the  classic  waka  mode,  is,  a 
2000-poem,  200-chapter,  740-page  mine  of  information  about 
this  hitherto  ignored  genre,  published  on  the  longest  day  of  2009. 

As  the  740-page  Monster  boasts  more  I's  than  a  dragonfly,  it 
was  deemed  best  to  remove  most  or  replace  them  for  this  humble 
Reading  by  "your  translator,"  who  carefully  chose  about  500 
poems  from  the  original  selection  to  offer  a  double  distillation 
high-proof  sample  with  improved  translations,  explanations  and 
interpretation.  The  scattershot  of  tiny  two-page  chapters  and 
notes  have  been  pounded  down  and  fused  into  a  score  of 
cannonball-sized  thematic  chapters  with  -  hopefully  -  just 
enough  weight  to  bowl  over  most  specialists  yet  not  bore  the 
amateur  and  sink  a  potentially  broad-beamed  readership. 

One  word  almost  got  into  the  title:  snake-legs.  or  dasoku, 

meaning  "redundant."  A  snake  can  move  well  enough  without 
legs.  The  most  common  use  of  the  word  is  to  designate  short 
explanations  in  a  way  that  the  reader  who  might  not  need  them 
will  not  feel  insulted,  or  (to  be  blunt)  the  reader  who  may  really 
need  the  help  but  does  not  want  to  admit  it  will  not  be  insulted. 
The  implication  is  that  the  author  explains  too  much.  Thus, 
snake-legs  embody  the  conventional  humility  and  respect  for  the 
other,  expressed  more  explicitly  in  the  Sinosphere  (the  greater 
culture  Japan  shares)  than  the  Occident.  Because  kyoka  are 
nothing  if  not  witty,  and  wit  often  dies  in  translation,  it  is  not 
enough  to  provide  the  usual  tidbits  of  cultural  background.  Even 
with  the  invention  of  titles,  complex  puns  and  compensatory 
rhyming,  additional  open  discussion  of  translation  problems 
(with  the  text  and  not  hidden  in  end-notes)  is  the  only  way  the 
original  may  truly  be  understood  by  those  who  cannot  read  it  as- 
is.  For  some  poems,  I  am  afraid,  said  snake  becomes  a  centipede. 


What  are  kyoka  &  why  are  they  not  better  known? 


There  is  an  absolute  freedom  both  in  respect 
of  language  and  choice  of  subject.  The  kidka 
must  be  funny,  that  is  all.  " 

—  William  J  Aston 
History  of  Japanese  Literature  1 899 

Sound  interesting?  One  might  expect  a  poem  such  as  Aston  defines  would 
be  popular  both  in  Japanese  and  in  translation,  but  such  is  not  the  case. 

Wit,  even  more  than  poetry,  is  lost  in  translation  between  exotic  tongues  as 
it  may  only  be  recovered  by  a  translator  willing  to  do  things  that  might  be 
thought  beyond  the  pale  if  only,  that  is,  anyone  would  think  to  do  them. 
Due  to  the  contrary  (compared  to  English)  order  of  the  verb  and  the  object, 
not  to  mention  a  common  practice  in  Japanese  poetry  (not  speech)  of 
ending  on  the  subject,  the  snapper,  which  is  to  say,  the  punch-word  that 
should  bring  the  wit  to  a  head  as  close  as  possible  to  the  tail  of  the  poem, 
usually  refuses  to  stay  put  in  translation,  while  there  is  nothing  under  the 
pun  that  Japanese  kyoka  poets  do  not  try.  Just  to  give  the  bare  bones  of 
the  multiple  meanings  in  the  original  may  require  more  than  one 
translation.  Lafcadio  Hearn  and  Blyth  both  made  at  least  one  such 
composite  translation  while  introducing  kyoka,  but  the  result  was  neither 
poetic  nor  witty.  To  actually  flesh,  i.e.  reincarnate  those  bones,  or  supply 
the  context  and  multiple  meanings  while  re-creating  the  poetry  and  the  wit, 
or  something  akin  to  it,  with  art  enough  that  it  may  be  appreciated  in  the 
reading  and  the  rereading  -  most  good  short  poems  are  like  good  music 
for  they  can  be  reread  and  are  not  killed  by  explanation  -  is  harder  yet. 
Mad  In  Translation  was,  in  part,  an  experiment  to  see  if  it  were  possible. 
Your  translator  still  does  not  know  if  the  answer  is  yes  or  no,  or,  rather,  if 
the  percent  of  successful  translations  is  high  enough  to  justify  a  year  of 
unpaid  labor.  Regardless,  it  is  understandable  why  so  few  kyoka  have  been 
Englished  and  not  surprising  almost  all  that  have  been  are  accompanied  by 
beautiful  color  prints  (surimono)  that  make  up  for  the  loss  in  translation. 

Lack  of  sufficient  appreciation  for  kyoka  in  Japan  is  less  excusable.  Both 
specialists  and  literary  lions  have  been  remiss  in  their  public  duty,  namely 
introducing  work  of  merit  others  might  enjoy  if  only  they  knew  of  it. 
Kyoka,  by  whatever  name,  spent  centuries  as  the  shadow,  or  the  reverse 
side  of  the  officially  recognized  31 -mora  (short  syllable)  waka,  or  tanka, 
and  despite  short  periods  of  intense  popularity  in  parts  of  Japan,  most 
Japanese  know  even  less  about  kyoka  and  kyoka  poets  than  most  English 
speakers  do  about  'our'  rhyming  wits.  Many  specialists  in  Japanese 


literature  may  not  have  heard  of  the  Rabelaisian  16  and  17c  kyoka-masters 
one  might  consider  the  equivalent  of  Heywood  and  Rochester  (Yuchoro 
and  Getsudoken,  whom  you  will  meet  in  this  book)  or,  for  that  matter,  the 
work  of  haikai  poets  who  were  not  officially  involved  in  kyoka  but  wrote 
such  poems  on  their  own  such  as  Issa.  Most  have  read  some  kyoka  by  the 
Zen  maverick  Ikkyu  and  encountered  others  in  old  comic  stories  or  as 
squibs  recorded  in  books  of  history  but  what  serious  attention  is  given  to 
kyoka  is  almost  entirely  reserved  for  the  late- 18c  kyoka  boom  triggered  by 
the  genius  of  wit  and  good  editorial  sense,  Ota  Nanpo,  aka  Yomo  no 
Akara  and  Shokusanjin,  both  because  Nanpo  and  friends  were  indeed  a 
talented  group  and  their  poems  reflect  the  prematurely  Dadaist  or  even 
post-modern  flexibility  of  Edo's  liveliest  literatae,  and  because  talking  up 
Edo  was  only  natural  when  this  "water-gate"  renamed  Tokyo,  or  East- 
capital,  self-consciously  lead  the  world  in  the  heady  "Japan  as  Number 
One"  days  of  the  late- 1 970 's  and  80 's.  Even  after  the  reproduction  of 
almost  200  old  books  in  Kyoka  Taikan,  or  Mad  Poem  Broadview,  gave 
clear  proof  of  its  worth  in  1982/4,  earlier  pre-Edo  (mostly  Kansai:  Osaka, 
Kyoto,  etc)  kyoka  remained  under-rated  and  ignored.  And,  worse  yet,  the 
larger  matter  of  the  relationship  of  kyoka  to  waka  -  namely,  being  the 
informal,  comic  side  of  it  and  not  merely  its  contrary  -  expounded  in  part 
by  Kaneko  Jitsue  as  early  as  1927,  has  yet  to  be  grasped  by  the  slow- 
moving  behemoth  of  Literary  History  that  pays  more  attention  to  lines  of 
pedigree  (teacher-student  chains  of  begetting  and  the  official  identification 
of  sources/collections)  and  names  {kyoka  history  starting  with  and  ending 
with  the  name,  kyoka)  than  style  and  content,  which  is  harder  to  classify. 
As  a  result,  kyoka  tends  to  be  mistakenly  equated  with  its  forte,  the  parody, 
while  the  witty  and  often  even  wacky  side  of  waka  is  simply  ignored. 
Meanwhile,  scholars  writing  in  English,  unsure  of  their  reading  or  humble 
before  the  Japanese  literary  establishment,  represented  by  Hamada 
Giichiro  who  is  by  far  the  most  often  quoted,  have  -  with  the  exception  of 
Edwin  Cranston,  who  introduces  many  delightful  light  waka  in  his  recent 
translations  (though  he  does  not  directly  treat  kyoka)  -  simply  parroted,  or 
by  the  nature  of  their  selections,  reinforced,  that  view. 

Please  do  not  get  the  wrong  idea.  My  intention  is  not  to  put  others  down 
but  to  let  you  know  this  is  not  only  not  like  the  many  books  out  there  with 
the  same  damn  classic  poems  from  traditional  collections  translated  over 
and  over  again,  it  is  not  even  close  to  anything  you  will  find  in  Japanese. 
You  will  be  among  the  first  to  find  out  just  how  much  reason  -  which 
carried  to  extremes  tends  to  become  mad  in  the  best  sense  of  the  word  - 
and  wit  have  always  existed,  yet,  since  the  oh-so-serious-20c,  have  seldom 
if  ever  been  appreciated  in  Japanese  poetry.  If  you  would  have  more 
history  than  provided  in  this  Reader  (p.271-4),  please  see  the  entire  Short 
&  Inadequate  yet  Broad  History  in  the  back  of  the  740-page  Monster. 


m <dux* <  %(Dm&m&x^&=-\ — ^mxh%. 

31-syllabet  poems  that  contain  not  seeds  of  tears,  but  of  laughter. 
ik^'Mi^:  from  a  'History  of  Kyoka  by  Kaneko  Jitsue  in  Shokusankashu,  1927. 


mad  (light)  waka  .  .  .  not  so  much  making  a  fool 
of  the  original  writer  as  in  European  verse; 
rather  "lightening"  it,  in  the  sense  of 
omitting  all  the  seriousness  that 
so  easily  falls  into 
sentimentality. 

R.  H.  Blyth.  Oriental  Humor  1959 


The  kyoka  scholar  Hamada  Giichiro  defines  kyoka  as 
traditional  waka  in  a  thirty-one-syllable  verse  form  that 
expresses  nontraditional,  incongruous  content  and  which 
eschews  elegant  diction  and  sophisticated  prosody  designed 
to  move  heaven  and  earth.  In  other  words,  he  says  a 
satirically  humorous  perspective  is  invoked  by,  as  it  were, 
the  heart  of  a  poet  who  wears  a  "robe  made  of  silk  brocade" 
but  who  ties  it  with  a  "sash  made  of  straw."  In  my  view, 
this  captures  the  genre  exactly.  .  .  .  kyoka  extracts  wit  and 
humor  from  materials  found  in  ordinary  daily  life, 
invariably  transforming  elegance  into  plebeianism  and 
seriousness  into  mockery  by  its  improvisations. 

Rokuo  Tanaka  "Forgotten  Women:  Two  Kyoka  Poets  of  the  Tenmei  Era  " 
in  J.  M.  Davis  ed.  Understanding  Humor  in  Japan,  Wayne  St.  U.  P.,  2006 


While  this  beautiful  summary  of  Hamada  Giichiro  and  Tanaka's  own 
view  of  kyoka  is  almost  perfect,  one  correction  might  be  made:  the 
mad  poet  of  Japan  also  liked  to  wear  a  hempen  robe,  or  a  hair  cloth 
and  tie  it  with  a  sash  made  of  silk.  For  example,  a  gift  of  some 
agricultural  product  might  be  accompanied  with  an  equally  earthy 
message  bound  up  in  elegant  grammar,  which  is  to  say  classic  waka 
trimming.  Perhaps  that  could  be  seen  as  "transforming  elegance  into 
plebeianism,"  but,  in  my  opinion,  it  makes  more  sense  to  see  such  as 
making  the  plebeian  outrageously  elegant.  Even  our  short  Reading 
of  Mad  in  Translation  has  examples  enough  to  allow  readers  to  make 
up  their  own  minds  on  this  and  other  defining  matters.  While  the 
740-page  Monster  has  many  more  definitions,  they  are  mostly  for 
entertainment's  sake,  as  Aston  said  about  all  that  can  be  said  for  sure. 


Table  of  Contents  &  Short  Key 


Mad  Reflection  —  on  what  makes  good  poetry  bad  and  bad  poetry  good.  23 

Mad  Logic  —  to  overshoot  paradise  wearing  one  pair  of  straw  sandals.  35 

Mad  Fantasy  —  from  wingless  tofu  to  Miss  Canthus  &  her  Champ  Pignon.  49 

Mad  Parody  -  or,  rather,  counterpoint,  harmony,  improvisation,  riff,  etc.  61 

Mad  Love  -  burning  hearts  floating  or  sinking  in  a  river  or  pond  of  tears.  75 

Mad  Sex  -  mostly  by  Getsudoken,  the  kyoka  poet  who  made  it  natural.  95 

)WW\z. h &  v> g «fi  +  [HK  Xfiti  +  fi-fe  y  ^  * ^$fD 

Ma^  Scoops  &  Squibs  -  reporting  the  odd  and  lambasting  the  bad.  107 

Mad  Hyperbole  -  a  collar  as  sharp  as  a  razor  and  a  firebox  for  a  house.  123 

Mad  Benediction  -  or  charming  in  both  senses  of  the  word.  127 

Mad  Maledicta  -  the  revenge  of  the  poet  on  the  silverfish  of  the  world.  137 

Mad  New  Year  -  from  calendrical  contradiction  to  butt-whacking.  147 

Mad  Spring  -  from  the  newly  verdant  soft  country  to  a  croaking  wake.  159 

Mad  Summer  -  from  cutting  woods  to  hear  the  cuckoo  to  self-cooling.  169 

Mad  Autumn  -  from  Milky  Way  as-Amazon  to  moons-with-menses.  177 

Mad  Winter  -  from  rolling  up  w/  Hitomaru  to  revealing  the  family  jewels.  191 

Mad  Exchange  -  chickadee  capping  &  teetotaled  drinkers  verse  vs  verse.  201 
ttlftQfrRM*)  f)\  lA^IIMIl©^  XEi<^>!£l©ii„ 

Mad  Chinese  -  blue  camels  and  bobbing  bathers  in  neat  little  rectangles.  215 

Mad  Goodbyes  -  the  death  poem,  or  how  to  write  your  own  epitaph.  223 

Mad  Laments  -  straight  trees  get  cut-down  and  pee  is  paid  back  with  tears.  23 1 


Mad  Miscellany  -  letter  play,  nostalgia  for  childhood,  an  appeal  to  readers.  241 
Mad  Translation  -  a  sample  of  writing  on  the  art  from  the  740-pg  Monster.  255 
Mad  Bios  -  sample  of  the  annotated  bios  in  the  Monster,  with  poems.  261 
Mad  History  —  sample+summary  of  the  Monster's  Broad  &  Inadequate  one.  27 1 

Acknowledgments  275.  Bibliography  jp.  277  /  en  279.  General  Index  285 
Index  of  Poets  291.  Index  of  Poems  294.   Paraverse  Publicity  297 


&.  Ampersands  serve  to  shorten  lines  for  design  reasons;  they  also  show  in  English  a 
little  of  the  enormous  variation  of  orthography  taken  for  granted  by  users  of  Japanese. 
As-for.  One  of  the  ugliest  make-do's  in  the  word-for-word  gloss,  it  has  long  stood  for  the 
topical  "wa"  following  a  subject.  Sometimes,  space  demands  "as4."  No  problem.  The 
better  to  show  it  is  only  an  awkward  didactic  device,  far  from  the  un-Englishable  original. 
Broadview.  The  first  really  large  and  inclusive  printed  collection  of  kyoka,  where  I  found 
almost  all  of  the  poems  ante-dating  the  mid- 18c  that  I  translated  (except  for  the  waka). 
This  Kyoka  Taikan  ££3^11(1 982/4)  is  thoroughly  described  in  the  bibliography. 

c,16c,  17c,  etc..  Using  c.  for  "century"  saves  space  and,  for  the  reason  explained  above 
(&)  to  share  something  of  Japanese-style  active  reading  w/  English-speakers. 
Cloudy  or  muddy  marks.  See  diacritical  marks. 

Diacritical  Marks.  f)>  ^  £  c?  L  ]^tzfcl3.t£0  The  first,  third,  fifth,  seventh  and  ninth 
syllabets,  pronounced  ka,  sa,  shi,  ta,  and  ha,  respectively,  do  not  have  them.  The  second, 
forth,  sixth,  eighth,  and  tenth,  pronounced  ga,  za,  ji,  da  and  ba,  do.  Japanese  call  them  M 
M  dakuten,  or  "clouded/murky-dots"  A  linguist  informs  me  the  former  are  unvoiced  and 
the  latter  voiced.  Orthographically  speaking,  I  suppose  the  would  be  an  unvoiced  Jfi, 
but  such  terms  make  practical  sense  only  with  a  language  where  consonants  alone  cannot 
be  read  outloud  but  only  when  a  vowel  is  added.  With  Japanese,  where  the  former  (ka)  is 
every  bit  as  pronounceable  as  the  latter  (ga),  they  are  simply  different  mora. 
"Glottalization,"  literally,  tonguing,  beats  voiced,  for  the  "g"  at  least  has  the  right  feeling; 
but  not  all  of  the  dotted  letters  are  tongued.  With  h  (iit>^^IS  hahihuheho)  vs.  b  (\~fXJ- 
J&^te  babibubebo,  for  example,  it  is  the  lips  that  do  or  do  not  touch  each  other.  Others 
are  or  are  not  fricative,  etc..  As  glotalization  has  come  to  mean  stopped-up,  and  as  all 
these  letters  are  by  tongue  or  lip  or  palate  somewhat  touched  in  passage,  it  does  loosely 
fit.  But  comparing  h  and  b  again,  while  the  lips  do  close  for  the  latter,  when  they  are 
released  it  comes  out  all  the  more  explosively,  so  "stopped  up"  is  but  part  of  the  sound 
and  not  the  whole.  Personally,  I  think  that  sharp  vs  blunt,  crisp  vs  cloudy,  muddy  vs  clean, 
i.e.,  the  original  Japanese  way  of  thinking  about  these  diacritical  marks  better  reflects 
both  the  phonemic  changes  and  the  way  Japanese  actually  think  of  them,  so  I  usually  use 
something  like  the  Japanese  expression,  eg.  muddy  marks,  or  the  vague  diacritical  marks. 
Common  ellipsis  of  these  marks  in  waka  vastly  increased  the  possibilities  for  punning.  I 
assumed  it  was  done  simply  for  speedy  writing  or  for  wit's  sake,  but  recently  was  taught 
that  the  ambiguity  preserved  the  monopoly  of  disciples  or  heirs  who  could  teach  others 
when  to  add  or  not  to  add  the  diacritical  marks.  Of  course,  when  a  pun  is  intended,  such 
a  resolution  is  not  always  desireable  &  the  ambiguity  creates  difficulty  for  reading  poems 
aloud,  unless  they  are  read  twice,  once  each  way.  Who  knows  if  that  was  ever  done! 
Edo.  The  capital  of  the  newly  unified  Japan  under  Tokugawa  shogunate  from  1603,  it 
became  the  world's  largest  city.  Before  Edo,  Kyoto  was  the  capital.  The  Edo  period  ends 
with  the  opening  of  Japan  and  fall  of  the  shogunate  in  the  mid- 19c.  Now,  Tokyo. 


Haikai,  Hokku  &Haiku.  Haikai  first  meant  wordplay-centered  waka,  but  came  to  mean 
witty  and  wild  (yet  structured)  linked-verse  of  14  and  17  mora.  When  Basho  (1644-94) 
was  alive,  haikai  included  many  ku  that  had  no  seasonal  element,  but  after  Basho,  a 
seasonal  element  came  to  be  de  rigor.  Hokku  were  17 -mora  ku  heading  the  sequence  or 
major  sections,  but  as  most  collected  ku  from  as  early  as  the  16c  were  not  really  hokku 
(though  usually  so  called),  Shiki  in  the  late- 19c  decided  to  call  all  such  ku,  simply  haiku. 

Hundred  Poets.  Abbrev.  of  Hundred  Poets  One  Poem,  the  Ogura  Hyakunin  Isshu,  basis 
for  the  quick-draw  card-matching  game  that  made  these  waka  famous  &  liable  to  parody. 
Hyperlogical.  Without  humor,  Burke's  judgment  on  Paine  (dat  operam  ut  cum  ratione 
insaniat:  he  labors  to  make  his  mind  unsound  by  means  of  his  reason)  might  apply.  With 
it,  the  same  might  be  considered  therapeutic.  The  metaphysical  madness  that  is  kyoka. 
Japanese  pronunciation.  The  vowels  are  like  those  of  Latin  tongues.  Learn  to  say 
Buenos  Aires  correctly  and  they  are  yours.  Well,  almost.  The  vowels  with  "  A  "  over 
them  (the  classic  long-vowel  line  is  not  on  our  keyboards)  may  take  you  years  or  decades 
to  learn.  Just  know  they  sound  &  count  a  syllabet  longer  than  vowels  without  the  "  A.  " 

Japanese  style.  One  of  my  Humpty-Dumpty  words.  A  poem  that  is  nothing  but  a  chain 
of  modification  of  the  subject  that  brings  the  poem  to  a  head  at  the  end,  or,  has  only  one 
verb  or  emphatic  expression  after  said  subject  confirming  it  as  the  subject  that  does  not 
supply  what  is  missing  according  to  the  conventions  of  all  other  world  poetry  that  I  know 
of:  namely,  a  plot.  Perhaps  it  can  be  seen  as  an  extension  ad  absurdum  of  the  makura- 
kotoba  =  pillow-word,  or  epithet,  or  jo,  a  longer  preliminary  part  of  the  poem  that  may 
pun  its  way  into  the  main  message.  I  await  the  guidance  of  linguists  as  to  what  I  should 
call  this  phenomenon  invisible  in  translation  as  translators  rewrite  the  poems  giving  them 
plots,  not  necessarily  on  purpose,  but  because  attempts  to  match  the  word  order  rather 
than  reproduce  the  connections  tends  to  result  in  that! 

Ku.  /nj     Either  short  for  haiku  and  other  17-syllabet  poems  (senryu  or  zappai,  too),  or  a 
part,  especially  the  5  or  7-syllabet  segments,  of  a  17  or  31 -syllabet  poem.  For  the  latter 
usage,  a  ku  functions  something  like  the  numbered  line  in  English  poetry  for  the  practical 
purpose  of  locating  what  one  is  referring  to.  It  is  also  used  for  expressions  counting  — /&L 
_l7nj  or  modifying  {±.^]{a  good  ku(  Ifc/B](a  poor  =  one's  own  =  ku)  haiku,  or  types  of  haiku  in 
haikai  such  as        hokku  (see  above)  IP/nJ  hiraku  (ordinary  ku),  etc. 
Kyoka.  JESfc  31 -mora  comic  Japanese  poems  found  in  collections  of  traditional  31 -mora 
high  poetry  called  waka  or  tanka,  didactic  ddka,  squib  rakushu,  droll  tales  or  parodies, 
other  comic  stories,  100%  kyoka  anthologies  (16- 19c)  and,  finally,  with  color  prints 
called  surimono,  esp.  early- 19c.  Most  were  yomisute,  read  for  fun,  but  never  published. 
Kyoka  Dictionary.  A  2000-poem  dictionary  by  Suzuki  Tozo  published  in  1984  found  too 
late  for  the  original  Monster.  Find  it  in  the  Japanese  part  of  the  Bibliography. 
Kyoku.    Haiku  that  share  the  comic  spirit  with  kyoka.  usually  called  kokkei  (comic  or 
novel)  haiku.  See  the  740-pg  monster  for  more. 
Kyomei.  Mad-name  =>  Poet  names. 

Kyoshi,  £Ef#  or  mad  Chinese-style  poem.  §#  or  poem  is  used  to  indicate  pretty  much  all 
non- Japanese,  usually  rhyming  poetry,  but  since  the  mad  poets  of  Japanese  did  not  write 
poems  in  Roman  letters,  but  only  in  characters,  kyoshi  means  Chinese-style.  The  most 
common  form  is  4-line  with  an  AABA  end-rhyme,  but  unlike  the  case  with  kyoka, 
various  lines  and  rhyme  schemes  (including  no  rhyme)  were  permissible.  Ikkyu  and  other 
mad  monks  were  particularly  enamored  with  it.  Ota  Nampo,  still  in  his  teens,  loosened  it 
up  further,  sparking  the  exploration  of  a  broader  range  of  subject  matter. 
Mad-cap  verse.  Used  by  Steven  D.  Carter  and  some  others.  The  "-cap"  helps  to  convey 
the  harmless  eccentricity  of  kyoka  better  than  "mad"  alone.  As  I  do  not  care  to  call 
unrhymed  and  unmetered  poetry  "verse,"  I  tried  to  avoid  the  term  though,  liking  the 
sound  of  it,  I  gave  in  and  put  "verse"  into  the  title  of  this  Reader! 

Mad  poems.  Just  plain  "comic"  will  not  do  for  we  have  other  varieties  of  comic  poetry  in 
Japanese  as  well  as  kyoka.  Read  this  book,  then,  define  them  as  you  wish. 
Mimesis.  I  use  this  word  and  mimetic  a  lot.  Onomatopoeia  is  semantically  too  small  and 
alphabetically  too  large.    Japanese  has  less  built-in  mimesis  than  English  (eg.  stop, 
shrimp)  but  more  functioning  obviously  as  adverbs. 

Mora.  Short-syllables  I  sometimes  call  "syllabet."  English  syllables  are  far  longer  and 
more  variable,  so  syllable-based  translation  is  far  from  the  Japanese  sound-sense. 


Muddy  Marks.  See  Diacritical  Marks. 

OJD.  The  Only  Japanese  Dictionary  is  my  coinage  for  the  Japanese  equivalent  of  the 
OED  (Nihon  kokugo  daijiten).  By  far  the  most  important  tool  for  reading  old  Japanese. 
Phonetic  Syllabary.  In  English,  only  someone  who  can  use  sign  language  yet  still  speak 
and  hear  can  truly  appreciate  the  stereo  effect  Japanese  readers  enjoy  thanks  to  their 
limited  phonetic  syllabary  combined  with  Chinese  characters  (kanji  in  Japanese).  In 
Oriental  Humour,  Blyth  gave  examples  of  fine  Chinese  puns  but  Japan's  versatile 
punning  cannot  be  matched  by  any  single-sign  writing  system.  Luckily  for  all  who  love 
puns,  Japanese  is  hard  to  read  with  just  phonetic  syllabary,  so  the  complex  -  and  some 
would  think  ponderous  -  system  is  in  no  eminent  danger  of  extinction. 
Pivot  word.  A  common  Englishing  for  kakekotoba  WtM,  a  sleight  of  tongue  so  common 
even  in  serious  waka  that  some  think  it  de  rigor  (it  is  not),  where  a  word  or  part  of  a  word 
is  used  in  two  senses,  one  that  goes  with  what  precedes,  the  other  with  what  follows. 
Aston,  who  credits  Chamberlain  with  the  term,  gives  a  droll  English  example: 
"Thackeray  has  something  of  the  kind  in  The  Newcomes,  where  he  speaks  of  the  tea-pot 
presented  to  Mr.  Honeyman  by  the  devotees  attending  his  chapel  as  the  'devotea-pot. ' 
Here,  the  syllable  'tea'  is  contrived  a  double  debt  to  pay.  It  represents  at  the  same  time 
the  final  syllable  of  'devotee'  and  the  first  syllable  of  'tea-pot.'  "  Expand  that  before  and 
after  and  you  have  it.  Still,  not  all  kakekotoba  pivot  and  not  all  pivot  words  pun.  We 
might  also  call  kakekotoba  a  "contingent  word,"  as  its  meaning  is  contingent  upon 
context  and  not  always  only  with  what  preceded  it,  then  what  follows  it,  as  is  the  case  for 
the  pivot-word.  Cranston  defines  it  as  "a  form  of  zeugma  in  which  a  set  of  syllables 
functions  in  two  senses  through  an  exploitation  of  homophony,  or  in  which  the  same 
word  serves  double  syntactical  functions."  Actually,  not  all  change  the  syntax,  but  the 
best  usually  do.  It  may  be  rude  or  so  elegant  we  must  groan  not  in  disgust  but  admiration 
Poet  names.  With  Japanese,  family  name  comes  first.  Edo  period  poets  generally  went 
by  a  two-character  a.k.a.  or  archaic  or  meaningful  pseudonyms.  Late- 18c  poets  invented 
long  facetious  or  parodied  archaic  names.  Egs.  explained  on  pgs.  592-4  of  the  Monster. 
Respondent.  Mostly  Yoshioka  Ikuo,  a  tanka  poet  and  Japan's  leading  student/scholar  of 
kyoka  as  the  laughing  side  of  waka,  rather  than  anti-waka. 

Rhyme.  Japanese  has  almost  no  end-rhyme  but  allows  for  ten  or  a  hundred  times  more 
and  better  puns  than  English.  Words  that  rhyme  associate  and  thus  may  be  thought  of  as  a 
weak  pun.  English  needs  to  take  advantage  of  that  to  match  Japanese  wit.  Madness  in  the 
kyoka  sense  of  it  means  being  humble  enough  to  allow  coincidence  to  have  a  chance.  See 
A  Dolphin  In  The  Woods  (2009)  re,  the  magic  rhyme  brings  to  reason. 
Savage/Barbarian  Songs.  M$B  Ikyoku.  The  first  great  kyoka  anthology,  published  in 
1666,  was  the  Kokin-ikyoku-shu,  or  the  Ancient  (&)  Recent  Savage  Song  Anthology." 

Senryu.  Like  haiku,  17-mora.  Comic,  but  more  focused  on  developing  stereotypes  of 
what  might  be  called  black  humor  than  kyoka  or  kyoku. 

Shokusanjin  or  Yomo  no  Akara.  Pen-names  of  Tenmei  kyoka 's  genius,  Ota  Nanpo. 
Syllabet.  My  coinage  for  the  relatively  uniform-length  Japanese  syllable. 
Syllable.  Better  to  pay  attention  to  beats  for  English  translation.  See  mora  above. 
Surimono.  filfe  Mostly  color  prints  or  a  small  set  of  prints  with  one  to  a  dozen  kyoka 
presented  by  the  commissioner,  usually  the  head  of  a  kyoka  group  to  students  and  patrons 
for  the  New  Year,  a  season  so  rich  in  ritual  as  to  constitute  a  season  separate  but  equal  to 
the  other  four  (The  Fifth  Season:  2007).  17c  haikai  poets  started  the  tradition  and  Ota  and 
friends  improved  upon  it  in  the  late- 18c  with  the  involvement  of  top  artists. 
Tanka    While  referring  to  classic  short  (31-syllabet)  waka,  because  the  vast  majority  of 
waka  were  short,  they  were  almost  always  just  called  waka  or  uta  (or  ka  for  short,  or 
counting,  kubi),  so  tanka  usually  means  modern  waka  (see  below).  Said  modern  waka 
includes  poems  that  classic  waka  poets  might  have  considered  kyoka. 
Tenmei  kyoka.  The  kyoka  of  the  1770-90's  considered  the  golden  age  of  the  genre. 

Tokuwa  Short  for  Tokuwa-kago  kyoka-shu  (1785).  Perhaps  the  representative  Tenmei 

kyoka  anthology,  reproduced  in  Iwanami's  Senryu  Kyoka  shii. 

Visual  Reading.  Kyoka  often  require  one  to  view  the  orthography  to  get  the  wit. 

Waka.  Long  traditional  haute  culture  poems.  The  shortest  3 1 -mora  form  is  representative, 
and  sometimes  called  a  tanka.  Kyoka  may  be  considered  waka  light-verse. 


17 


18 

On  the  Nature  of  Kyoka  &  Nurture  of  Mad  Translation 


A  preamble  from  the  740-page  Monster,  reproduced  more  or  less  as-is: 

It  is  not  possible  that  the  rest  of  the  world  will  ever  realize  the 
importance  of  Japanese  poetry,  because  of  all  poetries  it  is  the  most 
completely  untranslatable. 

The  Originality  of  Japanese  Civilization  Arthur  Waley,  1929 

Of  course,  this  would  not  hold  for  translating  Japanese  into  Korean  which 
shares  its  syntax,  but,  for  English,  Japanese  is  indeed  difficult,  as  English 
is  for  Japanese.  With  prose,  where  one  can  work  with  entire  paragraphs,  a 
gifted  translator  can  break,  combine  and  shuffle  sentences  to  restore  the 
good  sense  of  the  original  unless  it  is  a  witty  aphorism  or  humorous 
definition  where  the  word  order  matters  in  which  case,  nine  times  out  of 
ten  the  snapper  at  the  tail  shakes  its  hook  (Hence,  Ambrose  Bierce's  Devil's 
Dictionary,  where  the  barb  appropriately  is  almost  always  kept  for  the  very  tip  of 
the  tail,  for  the  most  part,  comes  out  flat  in  Japanese).  For  literary  translation, 
the  translator  must  have  an  ear  and  a  tongue  for  language  above  and 
beyond  the  usual.  Waley  did.  He  beautifully  Englished  classic  Japanese 
prose  that  even  most  Japanese  translators  (putting  it  into  modern  Japanese) 
found  challenging.  So  why  did  he  find  Japanese  poetry  a  problem? 

Its  beauty  consists  in  the  perfection  with  which  a  thought  and  a  body  of 
sound  are  fitted  into  a  small  rigid  frame.  An  uta  runs  into  its  mold  like 
quicksilver  into  a  groove.  In  translation,  only  the  thought  survives;  the 
poem  no  longer  'goes',  any  more  than  a  watch  goes  if  you  take  its  works 
out  of  their  casing  and  empty  them  upon  a  sheet  of  paper.  (ID) 

Uta  generally  means  a  waka.  Many  if  not  most  waka  include  a  long  serial 
thread  of  modification  with  one  slight  knot  in  the  middle  usually  called  a 
pivot  word,  though  often  a  phrase,  that  allows  what  came  before  to  morph 
into  something  else,  thus  squeezing  in  a  surprise  and  additional 
information  into  the  small  poem.  That  single  thread  of  modification  can 
run  all  the  way  to  the  last  word  of  the  poem,  the  subject  leaving  no  room 
whatsoever  for  a  plot.  Even  if  the  order  of  our  syntax  were  the  same, 
doing  that  in  English  would  require  hyphen  after  hyphen  for  Japanese  is 
agglutinative,  while  English  is  not.  That  largely  explains  this: 

In  the  few  examples  I  am  about  to  give,  the  reader  must  for  himself 
discover  the  possibility  of  poetry.  If  he  is  a  poet,  this  will  present  no 
difficulty;  just  as  a  watch-maker  would  see  in  the  scattered  springs  and 
wheels  the  possibility  of  a  watch.  (Waley  ID) 


We  will  not  embarrass  Waley  with  examples.  Let  me  just  say  that  Ivan 
Morris,  in  his  foreword  to  his  translation  of  As  I  Crossed  a  Bridge  of 
Dreams  (Sarashina  Nikki),  claims  that  Waley  demonstrated  "the  peculiar 
resistance  of  Japanese  classical  poetry  to  translation"  because  his  best 
Japanese  poem  translations  were  not  up  to  his  worst  Chinese  ones,  and 
wonders  whether  the  best  solution  might  not  be  to  simply  avoid  translating 
uta.  I  am  not  sure  if  even  a  poet  can  discover  poetry  in  a  language  he 
cannot  read  which  the  translator  could  not  re-create  as  a  poem,  but  I  can 
say  that  if  Waley  thought  classical  waka  were  categorically  hard,  he 
should  have  tried  the  most  convoluted  of  them  all,  the  kyoka! 

Kyoka  not  only  share  the  quicksilver-in-the-groove  form  of  all  waka,  but 
have  characteristics  that  make  it  hard  for  even  the  thought  to  survive 
translation.  Let  us  see  what  three  traits  commonly  ascribed  to  the  genre 
mean  for  translation. 

The  first,  exceptionally  imaginative  content,  is,  in  itself,  no  problem,  for 
paradox,  hyperbole  and  most  other  comic  rhetorical  devices  tend  to 
translate  well  and  the  background  or  context  for  novel  ideas  can  always  be 
explained  outside  of  the  poem.  The  difficulty  lies  in  the  way  long  chains 
of  logic  are  used  to  create  the  ideas  in  a  manner  which  makes  them  witty 
rather  than  simply  philosophical.  What  was  said  earlier  about  losing 
snappers  in  humorous  prose  is  equally  true  for  poems  in  translation.  The 
more  restrictive  form  makes  it  harder  to  get  around,  but  the  greater  license 
given  to  poetry  to  use  otherwise  awkward  grammar,  and  ellipsis  makes  it 
easier  for  the  exceptionally  creative  translator. 

The  second,  word  play,  is,  in  itself,  a  problem.  Some  is  found  in  most 
kyoka,  and  much  is  found  in  many.  It  generally  requires  re-creation  rather 
than  translation,  for,  with  mutually  exotic  languages,  there  is  slim  chance 
of  a  shared  pun  deriving  from  common  homophones  or  shared  ambiguity 
coming  from  the  connotative  spread  of  a  key  word.  With  nonsense  verses, 
the  reason  may  be  determined  by  the  rhyme  (an  unsung  variety  of  pun)  so 
a  "translator"  can  simply  change  unimportant  elements  in  the  plot  to  fit 
whatever  word-play  he  or  she  invents,  but  kyoka  usually  have  a  message, 
so  there  is  a  limit  on  our  license.  Moreover,  the  phonemic  poverty  of 
Japan  makes  it  a  punning  superpower  where  even  mediocre  writers  can 
out-pun  master  wordsmiths  in  English.  There  are  kyoka  (and  haikai)  that 
squeeze  all  the  integers,  ten  fish,  or  more  vegetables  than  most  Usanians 
or  English  can  even  name  into  a  single  31-syllabet  poem.  And  they  can  do 
it  so  gracefully;  you  do  not  feel  like  groaning.  Indeed,  you  might  miss 
them  all!  In  the  words  of  the  only  native  English  speaker  I  know  as  well- 
published  in  his  own  Japanese  as  I  am,  Roger  Pulvers,  "Whoever  said  that 
the  pun  is  the  lowest  form  of  humor  obviously  didn 't  speak  Japanese.  " 
(Corny  corkers  add  life  to  lingo,  you  elephant!  Japan  Times:  2008/1/22) 


The  third  is  parody  in  the  broadest  sense  of  the  word,  including  playing 
with  an  older  waka,  either  because  it  asks  for  it,  or  simply  because  it  is 
well  known,  satire  addressing  the  characteristics,  nominal  or  factual,  of  a 
historical  figure,  and  less  pointed  allusions  to  sayings,  hoary  trope,  etc..  To 
appreciate  parody,  you  must  know  the  parodied,  which  must  also  be 
translated.  That  would  only  be  inconvenient  -  more  explanation  -  were 
not  the  linguistic  gap  between  our  languages  so  large  the  parody  and  the 
parodied  may  lose  much  if  not  most  of  their  similarity  in  translation. 
Moreover,  some  parodies  are  presented  within  stories  because  the  original 
waka  themselves  were  part,  sometimes  the  main  part,  of  a  tale.  I  have 
introduced  some  such,  but  the  only  way  to  do  them  proper  justice  would 
be  to  do  the  entire  tales.  Again,  note  that  while  I  say  "parody"  for  lack  of  a 
broader  term,  in  most  cases,  the  play  upon  the  original,  which  may  change 
as  little  as  one  letter,  might  better  be  called  a  mutation,  and  if  that  sounds 
too  random,  too  natural,  the  only  suitable  word  I  can  think  of  would  be  a 
term  I  invented  to  describe  poems  that  changed  so  much  in  translation  that 
I  was  forced  to  admit  I  was  creating  something  new,  alternative  to  or 
taking  off  on  the  original  paraverses.  {Variation  will  not  do  for  it  concerns  style 
&  implies  similar  content). 

In  this  book,  for  better  or  worse,  I  have  had  to  grant  myself  a  broader 
poetic  license  and  do  more  of  this  paraversing  than  in  any  of  my  previous 
books  (with  a  total  of  8,000  translated  poems)  for  it  was  the  only  way  to 
translate  the  delightful  soul  of  kyoka.  In  so  far  that  this  makes  my  poems 
differ  more  from  the  original  than  is  usual  with  translation,  one  could  say 
that  I  tend  to  create  a  kyoka  of  a  kyoka.  Thinking  of  this  gave  me  my  title, 
Mad  In  Translation,  which,  in  kyoka  style  plays  upon  the  title  of  a  movie 
which  I  am  sorry  to  say,  I  have  yet  to  see:  Lost  in  Translation  (and,  is  this 
not  a  good  example  of  the  type  of  allusion  often  mistaken  for  parody?). 
Readers  who  fancy  themselves  to  be  traditionalists  and  are  unfamiliar  with 
my  work,  may  be  wary  of  a  translator  who  confesses  from  the  start  that  he 
will  be  literally  unfaithful  to  the  originals  in  order  to  be  spiritually  true.  If 
you  know  my  work,  however,  you  know  there  is  nothing  to  fear,  for  I 
always  provide  the  original  Japanese,  a  romanization,  a  word-by-word 
gloss  and  ample  explanation  (of  which  the  numerous  composite 
translations  play  a  role)  of  what  cannot  be  translated.  This  permits  me  to 
play  without  compunction  and  you,  the  reader,  to  see  what  is  what  and 
make  your  own  judgment. 

Needless  to  say,  kyoka  is  not  alone  in  being  hard  to  translate.  If  another 
witty  genre  of  poetry,  classical  senryu,  has  done  better  than  kyoka  -  i.e., 
enjoyed  considerable  success  in  English  translation  -  it  is  only  because 
17-syllabet  humor  requires  a  shorter  sequence  of  improbable  coincidences 
to  be  miraculously  reborn  in  the  target  language  than  31,  and  because  it 


plays  with  a  more  limited  number  of  stereotypes  which  facilitate  a  more 
economical  theme-by-theme  explanation.  With  kyoka,  the  best  examples 
tend  to  be  totally  off  the  wall.  Few  who  are  not  Japanese  can  guess  what 
they  mean,  much  less  reincarnate  them  in  translation.  And,  to  be  frank,  I 
have  seen,  even  bought,  entire  books  of  translated  Japanese  poetry  of 
types  far  less  difficult  to  do  that  make  me  want  to  surreptitiously  paste  in  a 
card  with  the  following  disclaimer  before  selling  them  to  a  second-hand 
book  store,  or  returning  them  to  the  library: 

This  is  a  book  of  poems  that,  like  the  Wicked  Witch  of  the  West  in  the 
Wizard  of  Oz,  are  not  merely  dead  but  really  most  sincerely  dead.  These 
are  poems  in  which  even  bookworms  have  lost  interest.  (Adapted  from 
Roger  M  Knutson:  Flattened  Fauna,  A  Field  Guide  to  Common  Animals  of 
Roads,  Streets,  and  Highways  (Ten  Speed  Press,  1987)  which  mentioned 
animals  and  flies) 

This  is  not  to  say  that  mad  poems  are  the  most  difficult  poetry  to  translate. 
Some  are,  indeed,  impossible  to  translate  -  we  shall  see  examples,  too,  for 
your  author  believes  in  sharing  failure  as  well  as  triumph  -  but  most  kyoka 
can  be  done  in  one  way  or  another.  No,  they  are  the  second  most  difficult 
genre  to  translate.  As  single  poems,  they  are  easier  to  recreate  than  the  wit 
weaving  through  haikai  link-verse,  where  puns,  allusions,  parodies  and 
other  associations  are  not  only  carried  from  one  part  of  a  poem  to  another 
but  from  a  previous  poem  or  even  leap-frogged  from  the  one  before  that.  I 
have  seen  some  game  efforts,  but  know  of  none  (including  my  own  tries), 
that  do  it  full  justice.  Kyoka  in  translation  may  become  popular  in  English, 
but  haikai  in  translation  will  probably  ever  remain  an  academic  exercise. 


22 


What  Do  We  Want  of  Our  Poets  {and  editors)! 

uta-yomi  wa  heta  koso  yokere  ametsuchi  no  ugoki-idashite  tamaru  mono  ka  wa  meshimori 
poem-composing-as-for  lousy+emph.,  good  heaven-earth(world)  move-start  put  up  w/!/?  1752-1830 


To  my  mind,  bad  poets  are  the  ones  to  be  preferred: 
Who  wants  to  see  Heaven  and  the  Earth  disturbed? 


This  naively  facetious  poem  by  18- 19c  kyoka-master  Yadoya  no 
Meshimori  may  be  the  best  known  of  all  kyoka  and  the  most  translated. 
For  comparison's  sake,  here  are  translations  by  Brownas  and  Thwaite: 
"Our  poets  had  best  /  Be  rather  weak:  /  If  heaven  and  earth  /  Began  to 
move  -  /  What  a  terrible  mess!"  Keene:  "It's  best  for  a  poet  /  To  be 
clumsy:  /  If  heaven  and  earth  /  Started  to  move  in  sympathy,  /  Do  you 
suppose  we  could  stand  it?  "  and  Watson  (in  Shirane):  "when  it  comes  to 
poets  /  the  clumsier  the  better  /  what  a  mess  /  if  heaven  and  earth  /  really 
started  to  move.  "  The  poem  has  no  pun  and  is  not  a  parody.  The  wit  is 
purely  conceptual.  Meshimori  pretends  to  take  at  face-value  the  prefatory 
claims  found  in  China's  oldest  poem  anthology  the  Shi-ching  (also 
Shijing,  2-3,000  b.p.),  and  Japan's  second  major  anthology  of  poetry,  the 
Kokinshu  (905),  namely,  that  poetry  could  move  heaven  and  earth.  By 
"move,"  The  ancient  editors  hardly  meant  poems  could  cause  earthquakes, 
mud-slides  or  typhoons,  but  a  child  might  so  interpret  it,  as  might  a  mad- 
poet.  This  is  not  to  say  Meshimori  deserves  a  patent  on  the  idea.  It  was 
already  in  the  air.  A  poet  in  one  of  a  thousand  anecdotes  found  in  the  oft- 
reprinted  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep  by  Anrakuan  Sakuden  first  published  in 
1628  warns  someone  not  to  praise  him  too  much  for,  according  to  the 
translator  H.  Mack  Horton's  note,  shrines  and  temples  were  believed  to  be 
liable  to  shake  as  a  sign  of  the  deities  'favor.  And  the  foreword  of  a  1769 
book  of  kyoshi  (^^Ps^Jihf),  mad-poems  in  the  Chinese  style,  lamented  that 
the  only  thing  moving  heaven  and  earth  in  that  day  was  Mr.  Money.  But 
most  Japanese  poets  were  intellectuals  and  most  intellectuals  in  Japan 
were  free-thinkers,  which  is  to  say  they  were  brought  up  in  the  clear- 
headed rationalism  of  the  Sinosphere,  where  religion  was  considered  little 
more  than  superstition  useful  to  keep  the  masses  happy.  You  can  bet  they 
had  their  doubts  about  poem-power.  Still,  not  all  Japanese  intellectuals 
were  free-thinkers.  There  were  nativists  who  believed  in  the  magical 
efficacy  of  the  sincerely  expressed  word  based  less  on  vague  ancient 
notions  of  the  power  of  poetry  than  newly  coined  claims  of  the  unique 
soul-moving  power  of  the  divine  Japanese  tongue  by  classics  scholar 
Motoori  Norinaga.  Since  waka  was  the  poetic  vessel  that  carried  that 
tongue  across  the  centuries,  any  doubt  expressed  about  the  power  of  waka 
had  to  be  put  in  a  witty  manner  if  the  poet  did  not  want  to  be  considered 
an  enemy  of  the  nativist  faith  of  Japaneseness.  No  one  knew  this  better 


than  Meshimori,  himself  an  active  (two  books  published)  national  studies 
scholar,  and  it  is  unfortunate  that  the  beautiful  levity  of  his  original  is  only 
weakly  reflected  by  the  comical  mess  and  disturbance  of  our  translations. 
Here  is  another  version,  a  paraverse  after  Belloc,  detail-wise  far  from  the 
original  but  nonetheless  closer  in  spirit  because  it  is  beyond  doubt  the 
most  amusing,  as  your  translator  can  himself  read  it  over  and  over  without 
wishing  to  change  a  word  - 

The  Kokinshu  Revisited 

They  say  a  good  song 
can  move  heaven  and  earth; 

I  hope  they  're  wrong! 

But,  just  to  be  safe,  my  lad, 
let  us  learn  to  love  the  bad. 

"Poor"  would  be  better  did  it  not  also  mean  the  opposite  of  wealthy.  I 
settled  for  the  second  best,  "bad."  Here  is  one  of  a  handful  of  alternatives  I 
came  up  with.  You  will  note  it  keeps  the  creative  translation,  "mess,"  but 
finds  just  the  right  phrase  to  describe  the  type  of  poet  deemed  safe: 

Nothing  is  better  than  being  a  poet,  Sir,  of  little  worth  - 
What  a  mess  if  our  poems  moved  them,  heaven  &  earth! 

But  even  humor  does  not  disarm  the  true  believer.  Keene  writes  that  the 
rabid  nativist  Hirata  Atsune  took  umbrage  with  Meshimori.  Chauvinists 
in  all  countries  are  fun  to  read  because  they  are  excitable,  and  excited 
people  use  great  figures  of  speech.  You  should  see  the  response  of  what 
would  today  be  called  the  right-wing  in  Usania  when  the  New  York 
Historical  Society  sent  out  a  survey  on  getting  a  Proper  National  Name  - 
as  America  belonged  to  the  continent  and  we  lost  the  intended  Columbia 
by  courting  too  slow.  They  included  virulent  attacks  on  the  character  of 
the  people  to  our  South  and  natives  (as  the  United  States  of  Allegania  was 
one  of  Washington  Irving 's  suggestions)  not  to  mention  outlandish  claims 
that,  as  it  turns  out,  have  come  true,  namely,  that  we  were  so  great  that  we 
were  bound  to  take  over  the  name  and  make  it  ours  alone.  As  Hirata  is  the 
one  who  claimed  foreigners  visiting  Japan  rather  than  vice-versa  proved 
they  were  mere  limbs  or  members  serving  Japan  the  unmoving  head  of 
nations  and  wrote  that  the  lascivious  character  -  what  we  might  call  an 
overwhelming  id  -  of  Occidentals  was  confirmed  by  their  thin  shanks 
which  proved  they  were  akin  to  dogs!),  his  attack  on  this  poem  is  probably 
worth  introducing,  but  your  translator  is  stuck  in  the  sticks  of  Florida 
without  access  to  a  large  library,  so  we  must  just  imagine  what  it  might  be. 


Pre-modern  Japan  and  the  Occident  may  not  have  agreed  upon  the  power 
or  lack  of  power  of  poetry.  Poets  in  the  West  were  indeed  appreciated  and 
feared  for  their  ability  to  immortalize  those  they  put  into  poems  and,  in 
some  cultures  and  times,  thought  dangerous,  as  witches  were,  for  the 
ability  to  literally  curse  someone,  but  music  was  more  likely  to  be  credited 
or  attacked  for  affecting  not  only  our  mood  but  our  character.  Or,  to 
summarize,  poetry  and  music  were  usually  discussed  in  different  contexts. 
In  Japan,  the  song  uta  and  poem  waka  (lit.  peaceful=  Japanese-song)  being 
the  same,  allow  for  the  easy  conflation  of  the  semantic  and  the  phonetic. 
Still,  art-poets  could  and  did  write  lyrics  for  songs  in  the  West,  so  this 
difference  was  not  absolute.  Here  is  Trifaldi,  a  Countess  who,  as  the 
keeper  of  a  Princess  in  Don  Quixote,  was  seduced  into  opening  the  way  to 
her  mistress  by  poems  that  moved  her,  about  the  business  of  poets: 

"instead  of  composing  Lamentable  Verses  .  .  .  that  make  Women 
and  Children  cry  by  the  Fireside,  they  try  their  utmost  Skill  on 
such  soft  Strokes  as  enter  the  Soul,  and  wound  it,  like  that 
Thunder  which  hurts  and  consumes  all  within,  yet  leaves  the 
Garment  sound  .  .  ."  Moreover,  "Love-Madrigals  and 
Roundelays  .  .  .  are  no  sooner  heard,  but  they  presently  produce 
a  Dancing  of  Souls,  Tickling  of  Fancies,  Emotions  of  Spirits,  and, 
in  short,  a  pleasing  distemper  in  the  whole  Body,  as  if 
Quicksilver  shook  it  in  every  Part.  .  .  I  pronounce  these  poets 
very  dangerous,  and  fit  to  be  banished  to  the  Isles  of  Lizards. " 
(Cervantes  1547-1616,  Ozell's  revision  of  Peter  Motteux's 
translation). 

Powerful  stuff,  indeed,  but  hardly  so  grandiose  as  the  Kokinshu  and  Book 
of  Songs  |Nf$£  claim  of  moving  heaven  and  earth  that  oddly  seems  more 
concrete  in  Meshimori's  denial  of  its  desirability  than  in  the  original  -  for 
who  would  warn  against  an  impossibility?  Of  course,  we  dramaticize.  Not 
all  the  dangers  were  of  a  catastrophic  scale.  Judging  by  the  poems  in  the 
Manyoshu  most  of  the  moving  was  of  the  petty  variety:  trying  to  shame 
clouds  to  stop  blocking  the  view  or  rain  to  stop  a  lover  from  leaving  if  they 
have  any  feelings.  The  requests  seem  more  on  the  nature  of  prayers  than 
spells  created  by  enchanting  prosody.  And,  who  knows  ancient  Japanese 
well  enough  to  tell  when  the  poet  is  or  is  not  serious?  In  Song  #17  of  the 
Manyoshu,  Princess  Nukata  no  Okimi  complains  that  clouds  ought  not  so 
heartlessly  block  her  view  of  Miwa  mountain  and  the  fx.W\,  or  envoi,  by  an 
un-named  woman  is  usually  read  to  the  effect  that  on  that  mountain  even 
the  clouds  ought  to  care  enough  to  behave.  Is  this  intended  to  influence  the 
clouds?  Who  knows!  None  of  the  annotations  even  try  to  explain  what 
makes  the  repetitive  envoi  worth  anthologizing.  My  first  read  glued  on  the 
side  of  the  page  decades  ago,  pretty  much  ignored  the  boring  modern 
translations  to  turn  the  poet  into  a  sarcastic  Dorothy  Parker: 


Sure  clouds  had  hearts  if  but  they  knew 
enough  to  never  block  my  Lady 's  view! 

But  the  original,  Miwa-yama  o  shikamo  kakusu  ka  .  .  .  ,  taken  alone,  is 
boring.  A  proper  translation  would  be  more  like  this: 

Miwa  mountain?  How  could  you  block  it  from  her  view? 
Aren 't  clouds  of  all  things  said  to  care?  Don 't  block  it  if  you  do! 

Even  added  rhyme  fails  to  save  it.  So  where,  then,  is  the  wit?  Is  it  not  in 
the  naive  enthusiasm  of  the  woman,  who  took  her  Princess's  rhetorical 
chagrin  at  those  "heartless  clouds"  seriously  enough  to  lecture  them?  But, 
pardon  the  repetition:  who  knows!  If  clouds  had  hearts  -  and  noble 
Japanese  associated  them  with  spirits  of  the  dead  as  they  were  buried  in 
mountain  caves  or  cremated  -  they  might  think  bad  poetry  funnier  than 
good  and  listen  to  it.  Japanese  editors  certainly  appreciated  bad  poetry. 
Less  than  80  poems  later,  we  have  a  youth  happy  to  have  been  granted  a 
pretty  bride  by  Emperor  Ninji  (#38)  boasting:  /  am  the  one,  who  won  the 
cutie  pie,  the  cutie  pie  /  The  one  that  every  man  would  win,  I  won!  Or, 
using  a  direct  translation  of  her  name,  an  obvious  moniker: 

P  Yasumiko  Is  Mine!  J> 

Easy-on-the-eyes,  sweet  Miss  Easy-on-the-eyes!  Surprise,  surprise, 
Aye,  I'm  the  one,  the  one,  who  won  Miss  Easy-on-the-eyes! 

ware  wa  mo  ya  yasumiko  etari  minahito  no  egata  ni  su  to  iu  yasumi  etari  mys  #95 
i-as-for  already+emph  yasumiko  got/earned  all-people  get-difficult  said  yasumi  got 

This  fulsome  boast  (unleavened  by  my  surprise,  surprise  &  Aye,  I)  is  the  first 
&  perhaps  last  poem  in  the  4,516-poem  Manyoshu  (8c)  composed  by  a 
youth  who  is  either  a  dunce  or  a  six  year-old  at  heart  -  one  has  a  sneaking 
suspicion  the  girl  was  as  stupid  or  oblivious  as  the  boy  and  the  Emperor 
was  doing  a  favor  to  all  concerned.  Be  that  as  it  may,  reading  the 
Manyoshu  made  me  realize  for  the  first  time  that  variety  makes  an 
anthology  interesting.  A  book  with  nothing  but  perfect  poems  is  like  a 
movie  with  nothing  but  beauties:  pretty  boring.  But  this  chapter  is  not 
about  bad  poems.  It  is  about  the  alleged  affect  of  poems. 

The  first  waka  that  obviously  could  be  called  a  kydka  follows  shortly  after 
a  kayo,  or  truly  sung  poem  in  a  narrative  in  book  14  of  the  Nihonshoki 
(c.720).  That  sung  poem,  or  song,  is  7-syllabets  too  long  to  be  a  kydka,  but 
itself  somewhat  comic.  First,  the  story:  A  carpenter  named  Inabe-no-mane, 
finishing  lumber  set  on  a  stone  with  an  axe,  was  observed  by  the 


27 


dangerously  mercurial  Emperor  Yuryaku  (r.  457-89),  who  thought  it  odd 
and  questioned  him  as  to  whether  he  ever  missed  and  hurt  his  tool,  to 
which  Inabe  replied  curtly  "Never.  "  The  Emperor,  evidently  upset  by  his 
confidence,  called  some  young  women  and  had  them  strip  down  to  their 
thong-like  loincloths  and  put  on  an  exhibition  of  sumo  in  front  of  the 
carpenters.  Sure  enough,  Inabe  eventually  missed  and  nicked  his  blade. 
The  triumphant  (?)  Emperor,  saying  'That 's  what  you  get  for  speaking 
irresponsibly! '  ordered  him  taken  to  a  field  and  executed.  At  this  point, 
his  fellow  carpenters,  or  one  of  them,  maybe,  sang  out  - 

atarashiki  inabe  no  takumi  kakeshi  suminawa  shi  ga  nakeba  tare  ka  kakemu  yo  atara  suminawa 
pitiful  inabe-the  carpenter  stretchng  ink-strng/cords  he  not-if  who?  stretch!  pitiful  ink-string 

Alas,  for  poor 
Inabe  the  carpenter 
&  the  ink-string  he  stretched! 

When  he  is  no  more, 
Who  is  going  to  stretch  it, 
That  poor  ink-string? 

Lamenting  for  the  ink-string  -  an  elegant  device  used  in  the  Sinosphere  to 
mark  lumber  for  cutting  or  foundations  for  digging  that  a  skilled  craftsman 
can  pull-back  and  twang  at  an  angle  to  instantly  do  what  Occidental 
architects  require  cloud-edge  rulers  for!  -  seems  a  mad  strategy,  but  it 
worked.  Maybe  the  relationship  of  carpenter  and  tool  reminded  the  cruel 
Emperor  Yuryaku  of  his  own  fanatical  love  for  his  hunting  hawks  or 
something,  for  he  suddenly  regretted  aloud  the  possible  loss  of  a  skilled 
craftsman  and  sent  a  reprieve  that  arrived  just  in  the  nick  of  time.  When 
that  news  came  back  the  Emperor  sang  out  - 

nubatama  no  kai  no  kurokoma  kura  kiseba  inochi  shinamashi  kai  no  kurokoma 
blackhead/gem' s  kai's  blackcolt  saddled-if  life  died-wouldhave  kai's  blackcolt 

Black  as  a  berry, 
the  black  colt  from  Kai! 

Had  we  saddled  him, 
a  man  would  have  died, 

The  black  colt  from  Kai! 

The  translation  is  Edwin  Cranston's,  except  for  centering,  one  de- 
hyphenating,  some  de/capping  and  my  revision  of  the  penultimate  line: 
"Someone's  life  would  have  been  lost"  (Waka  1).  How  could  one  give  up 


the  opportunity  for  a  rhyme  to  go  with  the  Learical  repeat  found  in  the 
original!  Note  how  the  thing  (a  horse  is  living,  at  \east)-centered  manner 
in  which  the  relief  is  expressed  matches  that  of  the  poem  triggering  the 
Emperor's  remorse,  and  how  wit  is  born  in  the  artless  way  the  just- in-time 
reprieve  is  alluded  to  rather  than  spelled  out.  There  is  also  no  little  irony  in 
a  poem  by  this  Emperor  being  considered  as  a  candidate  for  the  first 
recorded  kyoka,  or  31-syllabet  mad  poem  (the  initial  ink-string  poem  is  a 
song,  a  bit  longer  than  a  kyoka)  because  he  was  so  erratic  and  oddly 
heartless  some  historians  believe  he  was  literally  out  of  his  mind,  or,  dare  I 
say  it  .  .  .  mad!  Still,  it  would  be  centuries  before  the  Kokinshu  (905) 
preface  would  Japanese  the  idea  of  uta  songs/poems  moving  heaven  and 
earth,  not  to  mention  the  hearts  of  even  the  most  hardened  warriors. 
Perhaps  the  best  known  example  of  such  would  be  a  long  poem  in  the 
Record  of  Ancient  Matters  (c.712),  where  a  woman  about  to  be  executed 
for  missing  a  leaf  that  fell  into  the  wine  she  served  the  Emperor  saved 
herself  with  a  poem  tying  together  the  kingdom  from  the  roots  of  the  tree 
to  the  leaf.  And,  guess  what?  That  emperor  was  .  .  .  the  very  same 
Yuryaku  who  almost  killed  the  carpenter.  One  almost  feels  that  poetry 
needed  a  mad  man  to  prove  its  value  for  moving  people  and  saving  lives! 

n\cfy^fo.feffi%tcK£>bi-^L  fr^(D#%fef£\z.fr&zfri/v  mm 

me  ni  mienu  oni  kami  o  dani  otosubeshi  kabe  no  mimi  o  ba  nani  ga  osoren  sanetaka 
eyes-by  see-cnt  demns  gds+acc  evn  knock-down-ought,  wall's  ears+emph  what  fear- to 

Songs  beat  gods  and  demons  even  though  we  cannot  see  them; 
Why  should  we  fear  what  a  'wall  with  ears '  might  hear,  then? 

Call  the  poem  false  bravado  if  you  wish.  Your  translator  prefers  to  read  it 
as  a  statement  of  poetic  freedom.  The  Jesuits,  reaching  Japan  in  the  1540's, 
described  men  more  gutsy  than  any  met  elsewhere  in  the  world.  And, 
more  individualistic,  as  could  be  seen  in  the  diversity  of  their  facial  hair  as 
opposed  to  the  conventionally  limited  patterns  of  the  Europeans.  Kyoka, 
more  than  any  other  form  of  Japanese  poetry,  manifested  those  strong 
personalities.  Sanjonishi  Sanetaka  (1455-1537),  advisor  to  three  emperors 
despite  a  low  (but  still  noble)  ranking,  was  the  leading  waka  master  -  even 
passed  a  decade-long  apprenticeship  to  gain  the  sacred  secrets  of  the 
Kokinshu  from  Sogi  -  tea  expert  and  incense  expert  of  his  time.  He  was, 
in  other  words,  Mr.  Culture  of  war-torn  Japan.  True,  like  many  nobles, 
including  the  Emperor  whom,  Keene  notes,  hung  out  his  calligraphy  to 
sell  for  cash,  he  had  to  work  to  make  a  living,  and  work  almost  always 
means  compromise;  but  Japan  was  a  tolerant  society,  so  he  could  be  his 
own  man  at  heart.  The  above  poem  from  his  song  diary  #11^(1536) 
boldly  exaggerates  a  saying  ^  \z.  \~±  J&#  &  $ft ^  fa  <5  that  sums  up  the 
Kokinshu  preface's  claim  that  waka  can  influence  demons  &  gods.  It 


29 


followed  two  poems  by  others,  written  for  the  theme  white  wall  (good  for 
graffiti?),  urging  us  not  to  put  people  down  in  poems  because  walls  have 
ears  (a  well-known  proverb)  and  we  all  have  faults  (a  visual  pun:  compare 
fault  =  M  to  It  =  wall).  As  to  whether  Sanetaka  and  others  really  believed 
in  the  supernatural  power  of  poems,  your  translator  cannot  say. 

^^^(i^^^b^S^^iit>0^/i§/>^(7)^  kyokadict 
waga  koi  wa  fukakusa  naranu  asakusa  e  toitsumetaru  shosho  no  kane  anon  samurai 
my  love-as-for  deepgrass  is-not  shallow-grass-into  go/pass  push-a-little-money 

My  love  is  not  Tall  but  Short-grass  and  I  can  say 
If  I  had  it,  a  little  money  would  go  a  long  way! 

Unlike  the  love  of  Major  Deepgrass,  mine 's  a  minor  thing: 
Just  2  bits  and  Shortgrass  Shrine  will  grant  my  petitioning 

Major  or  Captain  or  whatever  you  would  make  "few/little-general"  (^#, 
a  title  punned  into  the  "a  bit  of  ;P  *  ")  Fukakusa,  tried  to  bed  the  poetess 
Ono  no  Komachi,  who  supposedly  promised  him  something  on  his  100th 
visit  and  sadly  froze  to  death  on  his  99th  visit  -  for  more  details,  read  The 
Woman  Without  a  Hole  (2007).  His  name  means  "deep-grass,"  while  the 
district  that  the  poet  -  or  samurai  character  in  the  comic  story-book 
"Sleepy  Tales"  -  wanted  to  visit,  Asakusa  means  "shallow-grass."  Upon 
being  refused  the  loan  of  enough  cash  to  visit  a  shrine  and  thank  or 
supplicate  the  gods  for  something,  he  wrote  the  above  poem  and  the  head 
clerk  was  so  impressed  he  gave  him  what  he  needed  and  wouldn't  even 
take  an  IOU.  Now,  that  is  a  little  thing  and  a  hopeless  poem  to  translate, 
but  a  fine  example  of  what  was  probably  the  most  common  informal  use 
of  a  poem:  to  move  people.  In  the  original,  it  is  clever,  with  a  literary 
allusion  coupled  with  love  for  a  place.  We  can  imagine  that  if  this  really 
happened,  the  clerk  would  take  the  poem,  frame  it  and  hang  it  on  the  wall. 
So  we  do  not  so  much  have  magic  as  a  perfectly  understandable  exchange. 
In  any  country,  wit,  especially  fixed  inside  a  poem  in  a  manner  that  does 
not  demand  an  explanation  (all  literate  Japanese  would  have  gotten  the 
above  poem  at  a  glance)  is  worth  something  for  those  who  appreciate  it. 


Excluding  love  poems,  poems  meant  to  influence  were  more  commonly 
directed  toward  the  elements  in  the  micro  and  the  macro-cosmos  than  the 
mind  of  the  reader.  We  will  see  examples  of  each,  respectively,  a  pun- 
powered  fire-stopper  so  famous  it  was  printed  up  and  sold  as  charms  for 
houses,  and  a  piteous  appeal  for  milk  that  might  not  have  seen  the  light  of 
day  were  it  not  by  the  most  famous  of  all  ky oka-master's,  Shokusanjin. 


yomo  go  fcafo'  no  moto  made  kitaredomo  akashi  to  ieba  koko  ni  hi  tomaru  hakuin  d.  1768 
burn-death/fire-the  fence's-base  (=poet's  name)-up-to  came-if-even  red/proof/light  (of 
dawn  &  toponym  in  his  famus  poem)  said-if  here-at/by  fire-stops=hitomaru  (poet's  name) 

Though  conflagration  licks  your  fence  and  sparks  persimmon  spit 
high  into  the  sky,  his  name  may  Fire  Stop  -  Hitomaru,  to  wit. 

Though  conflagration  licked  the  Kaki  fence,  dawn  brings  proof 
This  is  where  the  fire  stopped  —  Hitomaru  saved  our  roof. 


Though  flames  may  lick  this  Kakinomoto,  dawn  bring  proof 
That  this  is  where  the  fire  stops  -  Hitomaru  save  our  roof! 

The  name  puns  split,  surname  in  the  first  part,  personal  name  in  the  second. 
Zen  Monk  Hakuin  put  the  poem  by  a  picture  of  waka  "god"  Kakinomoto 
Hitomaro  (fl.  c. 680-700)  drawn  with  letters  spelling  Hitomaro's  best- 
known  poem  that  Hakuin 's  contemporaries  used  for  an  alarm  clock  (read 
half  at  night  so  you  wake  up  on  time  to  finish  it,  or,  perhaps,  you  finish  it 
so  it  will  gratefully  awaken  you  the  next  time  you  use  it,  too).  A  boat 
disappears  in  the  morning  fog  off  Akashi,  which  in  Hakuin' s  Fire  Charm 
kyoka  has  three  homophonic  pun  possibilities  (red/light/proof  3^  fi*1*(D 
ht^t:'frK  &(Djt(D%[tf-X:&fr  L?).  The  Kaki  in  his  family  name, 


31 


written  ftfj,  or  persimmon,  puns  as  a  fence  or  wall  and  Kakinomoto  the 
base  of  said  fence.  Hitomaro  is  familiarly  Hitomaru,  which  puns  as 
fire+hi+tomaru=stops.  While  the  original  seems  to  start  in  the  past,  the 
past  can  be  a  sort  of  subjunctive  and,  as  it  ends  in  the  present,  this,  too, 
might  do: 

X    KAKINOMOTO    HITOMARU  it 

Though  all  beyond  this  fence  is  left  in  ashes  and  the  flame 
red  as  persimmon,  the  fire  will  stop  if  you  read  his  name! 

Most  of  the  poem  is  borrowed  from  a  poem  by  another  Zen  monk,  whom, 
if  I  recall  correctly,  the  more  famous  Hakuin  knew,  Hannyabo.  The  shared 
words  are  not  as  obvious  in  my  translation  but: 

wagayado  no  kaki  no  moto  made  yake-kuru  o  hannyaku  bo  nite  uteba  hi  tomaru  hannyabo 
my  dwelling's  fence/wall's  base-up-to  burning-come,  hannya  stick/pole-as  hit-if/when  fire-stops 

'X    KAKINOMOTO    HITOMARU  It 

When  the  flames  reach  the  base  of  the  wall  of  my  dwelling 
Hanya  thumps  his  staff  and,  lo,  the  fire  stops,  no  telling! 

Hannya  punning  his  "monk"  suffix  bo  into  a  staff  is  clever  and  his  name 
meaning  prajna  also  has  power,  but  such  detail  works  against  the  poem  as 
a  charm.  Hakuin' s  poem  is  more  successfully  general  as  the  additional 
detail  (akashi)  concerns  the  ancient  poet  and  not  himself.  In  retrospect,  the 
idea  of  making  the  name  of  the  great  ancient  poet  a  fire-stopping  charm, 
seems  so  natural  I  would  not  be  surprised  to  find  prior  folk  usages. 


shita  tsuzumi  utsu  hodo  tanto  idezu  tomo  chichi  to  nari  to  mo  chichi  ideyokashi  shokusanjin 
tongue-drum  hit  amount  alot  come-out-not  even  wee-bit  become  even  milk  come-out!  late- 18c 

Though  far  from  a  feast  for  smacking  lips  and  clicking  tongue, 
A  breast  is  a  breast  &  milk  should  come  out:  at  least  some! 


Though  it  fails  to  stop  his  thirsty  tongue 's  dry  click, 
A  bosom  so  milky  should  at  least  have  a  lick! 

The  first-man  of  Tenmei  kyoka,  Shokusanjin  is  not  mad  -  as  Issa  was  with 
a  dry  wet-nurse  (pg  140)  -  just  sad,  for  the  malfunctioning  breasts 


belonged  to  his  wife.  A  member  of  the  lowest  echelon  of  samurai,  and  still 
young,  he  could  not  afford  to  hire  a  wet-nurse  and  his  bably  died  before 
the  year  was  out.  The  poem  might  be  called  a  lament,  but  as  it  seems  to 
have  been  written  while  his  child  was  still  alive,  it  was  probably  intended 
more  as  a  charm.  The  female  breast,  or  tits  in  the  broad  sense  of  the  word, 
are  called  chichi  as  is  milk,  so  Shokusanjin  uses  traditional  Japanese 
shaming  rhetoric:  you  should  at  least  live  up  to  your  name.  I  say  charm, 
or  spell,  because  the  poem  seems  to  address  an  object  not  a  person. 
Shokusanjin  was  probably  a  free-thinker,  but  even  rational  people  cannot 
help  hoping  against  hope  that  the  right  words  have  a  magical  affect.  This 
poem  surfaced  in  Edo  Kyoka,  the  only  general  book  of  kyoka  other  than 
the  Kyoka  Dictionary  and  Mad  In  Translation.  Nada  Inada,  the  psychia- 
trist author,  did  not  know  that  distraught  as  Shokusanjin  was,  he  still  had 
the  presence  of  mind  to  play  with  older  poems  to  bring  allusive  wit  into 
his  charm:  see  the  dandelion  poems  in  the  Mad  Exchange  chapter  (p. 202). 

sen  kin  no  nadataki  tsuki  no  kumoma  yori  semete  ichi  ni  bun  mori-ideyokashi  akara 
thousand  gold's  name-exalted  moon  clouds-between-from  at-least  one  or  two  pennies  leak  out! 

"The  million  pound  Moon  "  they  say  and  when  you  think  of  it 
Cloud  Banks  with  silver  linings  should  at  least  spit  out  a  bit! 

A  cloud  bank  hides  the  million  dollar  moon,  good  grief, 
Spare  us  at  least  a  shiny  quarter  if  you  are  not  deaf! 

Again  we  have  "living  up  to  the  name"  rhetoric  -  a  charming  strategy 
fitting  what  Ruth  Benedict  called  a  "Shame  Culture"  or,  if  you  feel  her 
contrast  was  too  shallow,  how  about  laying  a  guilt  trip  on  the  under- 
performing  party  by  reminding  them  of  what  they  are  supposed  to  be? 

yoshi  kumore  kumoreba  tsuki  no  na  o  tatan  waga  mi  hitori  no  aki  no  sora  ka  wa  15c 
ok,  cloud-over,  cloud-over-if  moon's  name+acc  stand/spotlight-will  my  self  alone's  fall  sky? 

OK,  cloud-over!  And  when  you  do,  you  '11  also  cloud  your  name 
'The  moon  who  only  cared  about  herself  will  take  the  blame. 

Cloud-over,  then!  Cloud,  and  take  the  blame!  Listen,  for  soon 
"The  moon  who  kept  the  fall  sky  for  herself"  will  be  the  tune! 

If  Shokusanjin's  poem  was  a  subtle  shamer,  this  is  a  clear  one.  And,  the 
very  day  your  translator  added  the  above  to  this  chapter,  the  morning  news 
mentioned  the  daughters  of  farmers  in  West  India  out  plowing  the  fields 
naked  in  order  to  shame  the  gods  -  or  tutelary  deity?  -  into  raining  and 


33 


ending  the  long  drought!  Years  ago,  I  recall  reading  of  a  Turkish  custom 
where  a  man  dressed  like  a  woman  and  rode  a  mule  backwards  for  the 
same  reason.  Compared  to  these  actions,  a  poem  seems  a  boring  way  to 
appeal  but  this  one  had  extra  life  in  it  not  found  in  such  quaint  customs. 
Rightly  or  wrongly,  it  was  also  interpreted  as  a  complaint  against  a  woman 
using  her  menses/moon  as  an  excuse  to  refuse  intercourse,  and,  if  that 
were  not  enough,  in  the  sixth  story  in  Anraku  Sakuden's  thousand-plus 
story  book  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep  II  H^l  1623,  it  is  turned  into  a 
homosexual  parody: 

yoshi  subare  subaraba  wakashu  naya  tatan  waga  mi  hitori  no  suki  naraba  koso 
ok  pucker,  puckered-if  wakashu  (gay)  name+emph  live-up-to-not  myself  only's  crack  is-if! 

Then,  pucker  I  Be  a  tight-ass  and  keep  thy  gay  reputation 
Thy  crack  is,  after  all  thine,  and  thou  thy  self  can  ration! 

The  verb  for  keeping  a  tight  sphincter,  subaru,  is  identified  with  the 
closely  clustered  Subaru-za,  the  Pleiades,  thus  keeping  the  firmament  in 
the  original  present  in  the  "young-crowd"  or  gay  youth's  fundament,  while 
the  idea  of  selfish  behavior  is  reworded  as  following  "one's  own  likes" 
because  liking  is  suki  and  that  is  a  homophone  for  a  crack!  Subari 
wakashu  were  highly  desired  by  the  largely  bisexual  17c  samurai,  who 
found  the  stylish  teasers  tantalizing.  Not  having  read  the  story  in  Laughs 
to  Banish  Sleep,  your  translator  cannot  say  whether  the  poem  moved  the 
youth  or  not,  but  the  tight  ass,  while  a  complaint  was  also  praise.  (If  any 
reader  finds  this  gross,  go  read  "our"  Martial's  Epigrams  for  comparison.) 


The  above  examples  of  moving  or  would-be  moving  songs,  whether 
addressed  to  the  macro  or  a  micro-cosmos,  are  all  similar  in  that  they  are 
aimed  at  influencing  a  mind  or  a  thing.  I  have  only  read  one  poem  where 
the  effect  is  not  called  for  by  the  poet.  That  is  to  say,  inadvertent  poem 
power,  unintended  and  not  mentioned  in  the  poem  itself.  This  is  it: 

okuyama  ni  eda  oru  eda-ori  wa  daga  tame  zo  waga  mi  o  wakete  umeru  ko  no  tame 
deep/recessed  mountain/s-in  branch-bending-as4  whose  sake+emph 
my  self+acc.  splitting,  bear/born-child's  sake  -  anon 

Deep  in  the  hills,  for  whom  do  I  break  twigs,  for  whom?  I  dare 
say  for  you,  the  child for  whom  I  parted  my  body  to  bear! 

The  parting  mimics  the  usual  expression  for  making  a  way  in  the  wild  or 
climbing  a  mountain  which  for  farmers  who  filled  the  valleys  was  the 


same  thing  (Japanese  do  not  blaze  trails,  they  split  them).  Read  by  itself,  I 
would  only  think  this  a  kyoka  because  it  is  an  unconventional  theme  for  a 
waka.  But  I  found  it  in  the  Kyoka  Appreciation  Dictionary,  which  gives 
the  original  source,  which  from  its  name,  the  moon-mowing  seaweed 
collection  sounds  sort  of  mad.  It  attracted  the  editor  for  being  a  good  just- 
so  story  for  Fuji's  (snow-covered)  crest  being  called  a  salty  (bright  white) 
butt,  or  shiojiri  (as  early  as  the  Tale  of  Ise).  Namely,  it  could  be  a 
corruption  of  shi-ori,  or  branch- breaking/folding  for  the  sake  of  marking  a 
trail,  and  that  could  have  come  from  a  story  of  a  man  who,  in  an  age 
where  a  death  at  home  ruined  that  dwelling  forever,  so  he  accompanied 
his  old  mother  up  the  mountain  to  leave  her  to  die,  and  noticing  she  was 
breaking  -  and,  it  goes  without  saying,  leaving  hanging  -  branches, 
thought  she  was  planning  to  sneak  back  down.  So,  he  removed  these 
markers  as  he  went.  When  she  finally  noticed  that,  she  sang  the  above 
poem  to  herself,  and  as  she  finished,  the  earth  opened  up  and  the  man 
plunged  to  his  death.  Here,  one  cannot  imagine  the  mother  wanted  her  son 
to  die,  but  it  is  true,  nothing  hurts  like  those  who  we  thought  knew  us  not 
interpreting  our  words  or  deeds  with  good  faith.  And  the  poem  evidently 
transmitted  that  pain  to  the  gods  who  in  an  extraordinary  act  of 
metaphysical  poetic  justice  cancelled  the  bad  son's  birth  by  returning  him 
to  the  original  womb.  Ignominious  thoughts  have  consequences. 


This  chapter  is  unique  for  the  poems  come  almost  completely  from 
sources  other  than  the  Kyoka  Taikan,  or  Broadview,  from  which  most  of 
the  poems  in  the  rest  of  the  book  come  from.  That  is  probably  because  the 
Broadview  does  not,  for  the  most  part,  include  stories  and  most  literally 
moving  poems  move  the  reader  best  within  a  narrative. 


J>Meshimori's  Better-bad-poets  kyoka  translations  by  Geoffrey  Brownas  and  Anthony 
Thwaite  in  their  Penguin  Book  of  Japanese  Verse  and  Burton  Watson  in  Shirane:  2002 
P  Emperor  Yuryaku.    Yes,  the  first  poem  in  the  Manydshu,  the  Pretty  basket,  pretty 
scoop  pick-up  a  maiden  on  herb-gathering  day  song,  is  also  his. 

P  Poetry  needed  a  mad  man.  As  David  needed  Saul  to  prove  the  calming  power  of  song. 
PA  coincidence  in  the  cloud-chastising  waka.  The  fourth  cluster  of  Chinese  characters: 
fnWi^imA  (kokoro  aranamu  =  ought  to  have  feelings")  includes  Ota  Nanpo's  Nanpo  j^faA! 
P  Cranston's  Waka  1  (The  Gem  Glistening  Cup).  A  valuable  selection  invaluable  for  the 
way  the  poems  and  poets  in  the  8c  Manydshu  are  thoroughly  related. 
P Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep  is  H.  Mack  Horton's  translation  of  about  3%  of  Sakuden's  II 

Literally  it  is  "wake-sleep-laughs"  or  "stimulate-drowsiness-laugh." 
J^The  Kyoka  Appreciation  Dictionary  by  Suzuki  Tozo,  obtained  too  late  for  the  first 
edition  reading  copy  of  the  740-page  Monster  :  ?£®;igfCS?Jii  ftJH»/£  1984. 


Mad  Reason:  Hyperlogical  Means  Going  All  the  Way 

nenbutsu  o  shiite  mosu  mo  iranu  mono  moshi  gokuraku  o  tori-sngitte  wa  monk  tosui 
prayers+acc  forcing-say+emph  unneeded  thing,  if  paradise+dat  pass-by-as-for  d.  1683 

Making  light  of  blockheads  who  pray  day  and  night. 

With  prayers,  pushing  it  too  much  may  prove  unwise 
I'd  take  care  if  I  were  you  not  to  overshoot  Paradise! 

'Tain 't  wise  to  overdo  your  prayers,  for  you  might  die, 
And  waking,  find  you  passed  it,  Paradise,  right  by! 

Overdoing  your  prayers,  my  friend,  is  a  bad  habit 
You  might  miss  Paradise,  just  shoot  right  past  it! 

Taken  literally,  religion  is  a  blast,  a  magazine  -  in  the  old  meaning  of  the 
word  -  full  of  ammunition  for  humor.  Popular  Buddhism,  like  Catholicism, 
stereotypically  prospered  by  providing  people  with  concrete  ideas  of 
Paradise  and  the  itinerary  taken  to  get  there,  then  charging  them  and  their 
surviving  family  hefty  fees  for  safe -passage.  The  kyoka  is  not  about 
indulgences  per  se,  but  the  frame  of  mind  in  which  they  thrive.  Though 
not  by  Ikkyu,  this  is  the  sort  of  witty  free-thinking  rationalism  usually 
identified  with  the  poems  of  a  certain  famous  wise-guy  Zen  Monk. 

kono  yo  nite  jihi  mo  akuji  mo  senu  hito  wa  sazo  ya  enma  mo  komari  tamawan  ikkyu 
this  year/times-as-for  mercy-and  bad-things  do  not  person-as-for  yep,  yama  even  troubled 

There  are  people  in  this  world,  who  do  ne  'er  good  nor  bad. 
Yama,  Judge  of  Hades,  they  must  drive  that  Devil  mad! 

In  this  world,  those  who  do  neither  good  deeds  nor  evil, 
How  they  must  bedevil  the  Ruler  of  Hades! 

From  a  Zen  Q&A  series  attributed  to  Ikkyu  (d.1481)  and  link- verse  master 
and  fellow  in  Zen,  Chikamasa  §^(iiJllfr*'#TPEl  d.1448),  this  is  pure  fun  at 
the  expense  of  popular  Buddhist  belief.  Emma  (Yama)  the  King  of  Hades, 
a  muscular  demon  who  looks  terrifying  as  he  is  red  from  drinking  molten 
metal  to  punish  himself  for  inflicting  punishment  though  he  does  it  for 
justice,  is  really  a  kind  soul.  He  uses  a  large  magnifying  glass  to  diligently 
search  out  every  merciful  or  cruel  thing  new  arrivals  did  and  charges  his 


lackeys  to  mete  out  the  fair  -  and,  as  depicted  by  Japanese  artists, 
extremely  creative  -  punishment.  Ikkyu's  concern  for  this  tragic  King  of 
the  Underworld  is  touching.  The  poem  before  it,  by  Chikamasa  is  a 
splendid  description  of  how  belief  affects  people  and,  therefore,  fiction  or 
not,  is  useful: 

mm^mmfthz hfzia stir  &zz.&AK&tz>A* 

gokuraku  ya  jigoku  ga  aru  to  damas arete  y or okobu  hito  ojiru  hitobito 
'paradise  and  hell  are/exist'  so  fooled,  rejoice/ing  people  fear/ing  people 

Fooled  into  believing  Heaven  and  Hell  are  not  fake 
Some  people  rejoice  and  some  people  quake 

Fooled  into  thinking  that  Heaven  and  Hell  exist, 
Some  find  fear  on  earth,  others  only  bliss. 

Still,  it  is  not  a  mad  poem  but  a  "road  poem"  (doka  jjfifc)  or  homily. 
Ikkyu's  chuckling  envoi  is.  The  first  great  anthology  of  kyoka  ^^M$8M 
(1666)  has  a  poem  expanding  Ikkyu's  ring  of  sympathy  for  Hell's  fiction: 

minabito  no  moshi  seibutsu  o  suru  naraba  jigoku  no  oniya  katsueji  namashi  koko 
all  peopls+emph  becme-bddha/enlightnd-becom-if  hell's  demons+emph  starvedeath  wuld 

If  everyone  were  to  become  buddhas  with  their  last  breath 
Wouldn  't  the  poor  devils  in  Hades  slowly  starve  to  death? 

This  is  mad.  Demons  may  only  do  their  duty  punishing  sinners,  but  the 
way  they  are  depicted  by  popular  artwork  fiendishly  flaying,  chopping  up 
skewering,  stewing  or  roasting  sinners  hardly  evokes  compassion.  Ikkyu's 
kind  words  would  seem  to  have  started  a  game  of  altruistic  one-upmanship 
escalating  a  kyoka  at  a  time!  In  another  anthology  thirteen  years  later, 

negawakuba  waga  ato  no  yo  wa  oni  to  narite  jigoku  ni  otsuru  hito  o  tasukemu  tein  1 679 
wish-could-if  my  aftr/nxt  wrld-as4  demon-to  becmng  hell-into  fallng  people+acc  help-wld 

This  is  my  wish:  to  turn  into  a  demon  in  the  next  world, 
So  I  can  save  lost  souls  in  hell  where  they  are  hurled. 

My  wish,  this:  that  in  the  next  world  I  can  be  a  devil, 
Born  in  hell  to  help  the  many  fallen  ones  be  well. 

That  is  madder  than  concern  for  the  employment  of  demons,  for  it 
amounts  to  wanting  to  help  those  getting  what  was  coming  to  them  (tb 
ft  :  MMMWiM).  Returning  to  the  older  Zen  Q&A  .  Ikkyu  goes  first: 


37 


shinde  kara  hotoke  to  iu  mo  naniyue  zo  kogoto  mo  iwazu  jama  ni  naraneba  ikkyu 
die-from  buddha  say/call+emph  what  reason+exclam  complaint  say-not  &  bother  be-not-if 

Why  do  they  call  us  buddhas  after  we  die?  I  cannot  say, 
Unless  it 's  because  none  complain  or  get  in  the  way. 

So,  why  is  it  that  they  call  us  a  saint  after  we  die? 
You  don 't  complain  or  get  in  the  way,  that 's  why! 

The  deceased  are  called  hotoke,  or  "buddhas,"  to  this  day;  Ikkyu  in  this 
just-so  poem  pretends  to  tell  us  why.  In  the  vernacular,  a  Buddha  is  an 
extremely  considerate  person,  in  English  idiom,  a  saint.  As  with  the  last 
exchange,  Ikkyu  gives  us  wit,  Chikamasa  wisdom: 

shinde  kara  hotoke  ni  nam  wa  iranu  mono  ikitaru  uchi  niyoki  hito  to  nare  chikamasa 
die-from  buddha  say/call+emph  what  reason+exclam  complaint  say-not  &  bother  be-not-if 

Becoming  a  saint  after  you  die  is  too  slow  for  a  trick; 
Become  a  good  person  while  still  among  the  quick! 

Anyone  can  become  a  good  soul  after  they  have  died 
What  you  would  become,  become  when  you  're  alive! 

Read  alone  this  might  seem  a  mere  homily,  but  it  is  a  witty  complement 
for  Ikkyu's  poem.  The  Q&A  goes  on.  The  next  is  one  of  Ikkyu's  best  - 

gokuraku  wa  jiimanokudo  haruka  nari  totemo  yukarenu  waraji  issoku  ikkyu 
paradise-as-for  100,000x100,000,000  lands  distant  is,  at-all  go-cannot  sandals  1-pair 

Paradise  lies  a  million  leagues  yonder  -  that 's  far  away 
Fat  chance  you  11  make  it,  with  one  pair  of  straw  sandals! 

Paradise  lies  a  trillion  countries  over  -  even  a  gambler 
Would  say  'no  dice ',  with  but  one  pair  of  straw  sandals! 

The  macrame  sandals  worn  by  travelers  that  corpses  were  shod  with  were 
expected  to  last  but  one  day.  Another  simple  conceptual  masterpiece: 

toshidoshi  ni  akuma  gaidd  no  nagasaruru  sono  nishikata  ni  yukitaku  mo  nashi 
year-y ear-in/by  demon/s  outer-road  flow/go,  this  westward  go-want- not!  chikamasa 

Year  after  year,  that  is  where  those  bad  men  find  fraternity; 
'Go  West,  old  man! '  they  say,  but  it 's  no  place  I  would  be! 


This  is  by  Chikamasa,  not  Ikkyu.  Does  he  allude  to  sects  of  Buddhism  that 
claim  bad  men  are  more  easily  saved  than  good?  If  so,  this  is  a  marvelous 
kyoka,  well  worth  the  translator's  extra  effort  to  specify  the  location  ( 'Go 
West,  old  man! ')  of  the  Pure  Land  in  a  witty  manner.  And,  now,  we  are 
done  with  Ikkyu  and  Chikamasa  but  not  from  free-thinking  about  religion. 

nezame  ni  mo  omoidashite  tokos hiki  wa  ano  gokuraku  o  koi  no  yamai  ka  shoe  1679 
waking-up-while-even  thinking-of  bed-as-for  that  paradise+acc  love/longing  disease? 

So  you  awaken  thinking  of  it  as  you  lie  alone  in  bed  — 
Could  paradise,  like  being  lovesick,  be  all  in  the  head! 

Despite  the  beauty  of  the  idea,  the  equation  of  a  condition  with  a  place  {eg. 
Does  that  make  paradise  a  type  of  love-sickness?)  would  be  too  direct. 
"All  in  the  head,"  a  child  of  rhyme  and  reason,  repairs  that,  making  the 
poem  stylistically  better  in  translation  than  in  the  17c  original. 

m^k-bmmhffixjgzyh^  jEx^mtim^^L  %w  -^^3-43 

gokuraku  mo  jigoku  mo  ikiteiru  uchi  zo  shinde  no  ato  wa  nani  ga  arubeshi  kusui  d.  1 763 
paradise/heaven  &  hell  too  living-are  during!  //  dying-after-as-for  what?  is-ought 


Heaven  or  hell,  one  thing  is  true: 
You  cannot  take  them  with  you! 


Issa  copied  this  kyoka  from  the  five-foot  long  grave-marker  of  Kusui,  an 
Edo  (Jffitu)  haijin  and  sign-maker,  into  his  journal,  where  the  translator 
found  it.  Since  Issa  was  not  a  Zen  monk  but  a  member  of  a  sect  whose 
very  name,  Pure  Land,  affirms  a  belief  in  the  afterworld,  it  would  be 
curious  to  know  what  he  felt  about  the  poem  he  so  graciously  passed  on  to 
us.  Yes,  the  poem  shrank  in  translation,  but  my  longer  attempts  seemed 
dead  by  comparison.  In  the  original,  it  is  more  homily  than  kyoka,  but  the 
second  line  of  the  above  reading  makes  it  mad  in  translation. 
Unfortunately,  our  run  of  readings  showing  a  net  gain  in  translation  is  over. 
The  next,  a  masterpiece  by  monk  Sengai  (1750-1837),  demonstrates  a  huge 
loss  in  translation. 

he  nari  to  mo  ada  nam  mono  to  omou  na  yo  butsu  to  iu  ji  wa  hotoke  narikeri  sengai 
fart  is  even  vain/worthless  thing-as  think-not!  butsu-as  said  letters-as-for  buddha  are! 

Mu  is  Bu  and  Bu  is  Mu 


Who  says  a  fart  is  but  empty  air!  Cut  one  &  it  goes 
"Butsu! "  -  If  that  is  not  our  Buddha,  who  knows! 


The  original  wit  depends  on  the  unEnglishable  fusion  of  an  unfamiliar 
name  (Butsu  for  Buddha)  and  unmatchable  onomatopoeia  {butsu  the  sound 
of  a  fart's  release).  You  might  note  that  most  of  the  poets  in  this  chapter 
are  Zen  Buddhist  monks.  Free-thinking,  a  term  common  in  English  up  to 
the  mid-20c,  was  often  used  as  a  synonym  for  atheism,  but  actually  it 
meant  being  open-minded  and  unafraid  to  think  logically  about  what 
others  take  on  faith  (not  just  religion  but  capitalism,  libertarianism, 
marxism,  etc.).  Deists  such  as  the  rhyming  pair  of  Paine  and  Twain  are 
good  examples.  It  is  also  the  term  used  by  the  Russian  Captain  Golownin 
to  describe  the  intellectual  Japanese  he  met  and  talked  with  during  his 
early- 19c  captivity  in  Japan  and  might  describe  the  majority  of 
intellectuals  throughout  the  Sinosphere  with  its  deep-rooted  Confucian 
rationalism  and  the  Taoist  or  Zen  tradition  of  open  and  honest  unknowing 
that  harmonizes  with  it  and,  for  that  matter,  the  humble  way  of  science. 
Only  1 1  of  the  1061  poems  in  the  seminal  1666  "Savage  Song"  anthology 
of  kyoka,  are  by  Ikkyu  (vs.  63  by  Mitoku,  52  by  Teitoku,  32  by  Yuchoro,  etc.), 
but  that  is  partly  because  his  poems  could  be  found  elsewhere.  The  role  of 
Zen  Buddhism  in  haiku  has  been  exaggerated  by  some,  but  it  would  be 
hard  to  exaggerate  its  contribution  to  kyoka  as  the  poetry  of  free-thinkers. 
Later,  in  the  mid- 18c,  kyoka  was  joined  by  another  genre  of  comic  poetry 
that  took  pride  in  free-thinking  even  as  it,  for  the  most  part  built  rather 
than  deconstructed  stereotypes,  senryu. 


In  just  17-mora,  this  unheralded  senryu  does  what  takes  Twain  a  chapter 
in  Letters  to  the  Earth.  It  goes  to  the  heart  of  what  makes  gentle,  rational 
folk  wary  about  organized  religion:  the  character  of  their  gods.  Most 
cultures  in  the  Far  East  admire  modesty  so  much  they  even  expect  it  even 
from  leaders.  For  a  newly  bora  babe  to  pop  out  crowing,  "Above  and 
below  Heaven  I  alone  am  precious  (or  command  respect)  ^_h^TpHffe^ 


J^!"  is  preposterous.  Still,  egoism  is  excusable  in  a  baby.  When  adult 
Gods  do  it,  one  wonders  about  the  character  of  those  who  created  them 
and  the  judgment  of  those  who  continue  to  believe  in  them. 


Buddha 's  birth 
He  was  already  boasting 
as  he  came  out! 


Shaka 's  the  most: 
As  soon  as  he  was  born,  out 
pops  a  big  boast! 


Shakamuni  fell 
from  his  mother  already 
talking  himself  up 


40 


Because  religious  fictions  provide  clear-cut  targets,  religion-related  poems 
are  ideal  for  demonstrating  the  working  of  pure  logic;  but  do  not  think  that 
hyperlogical  kyoka  are  all,  or  even  mostly  concerned  with  supernatural 
matters.  The  rest  of  the  chapter  will,  with  one  exception,  treat  the 
mundane  matters  representing  by  far  the  larger  part  of  kyoka  free-thinking. 


shakkin  mo  yamai  mo  chiku  to  aru  mono  o  mono  no  motanu  mi  to  dare  ga  iu  ran 
debt/s  &  disease  carry-round  so  have/  things+contrad.interog.  things  have-not-body-as  who  says!  1570-1653 


Debt  and  Disease 
Would  you  call  them  Nothing! 
Who  has  the  gall 

To  call  me  and  my  kind 
The  Have-nots  of  the  World? 


Though  we  never 
run  short  of  disease  and  own 
mountains  of  debt 

We  're  called  have-nots  &  that 
is  the  craziest  thing  yet! 


The  heart  of  Teitoku's  kyoka  is  not  only  translatable  but  improvable,  as 
English  happens  to  have  a  word,  "have-nots, "  better  than  the  original, 
which  is  a  bit  lengthier  {mono  no  motanu  mi).  Indeed,  if  Japanese  had  a 
word  as  compact  as  the  English  one,  this  poem  might  have  become 
famous.  Teitoku's  reasoning  recalls  Lightning  Slim's  line"  if  it  weren't  for 
bad  luck,  I  wouldn 't  have  no  luck  at  all!  The  original  has  neither  pronoun 
nor  conjugation  to  reveal  person  or  number.  English  wants  such  detail  so 
the  translator  chose  the  first-person  singular  and  plural  as  well  as  one 
second  person  address.  Why?  Teitoku  was  never  poor,  but  he  was  compas- 
sionate and  that  is  conveyed  better  through  the  first  person  than  the  third. 

(t^L^A»Lf:L^|:t)9  t  £  ft  it  ft  if  i^toW  Lit  3) 
fFifitPf-fc^t    iitifeff  f  15 ifi^lf  li^ L  life®  1636 

noki  chikaki  tonari  ni  dani  mo  towareneba  bin  hodo  fukaki  kakureya  wa  nashi  musen 
eaves-close  neighbors'-by  even  call-not-if  poverty  as-much  deeply  hidden  house-as-for  not 


Even  neighbors  Even  neighbors 

you  know  no  longer  knock  take  great  care  to  pretend 

upon  your  door  you  are  not  there 

No  hermitage  hides  you  No  hermit  lives  so  deep 

like  simply  being  poor.  in  the  hills  as  poverty. 


If  the  second  half  of  this  kyoka  by  a  contemporary  of  Teitoku  whose  name, 
Musen-hoshi  means  the  Penniless  Priest  or  Moneyless  Monk,  is  not  an 
aphorism  already,  it  should  be.  The  deeply  hidden  poverty's  hidden  pivots 
from  being  an  adverb  to  an  adjective  modifying  house.  Otherwise,  there  is 
no  word-play  and  the  wit  lies  solely  in  the  comparison  of  a  concrete,  or 


rather,  clay  and  wood  object  and  the  more  abstract  condition  of  poverty, 
and  simultaneous  to  that,  the  jump  from  psychological  to  spatial  distance. 
Together,  that  suffices  to  make  the  poem  a  hyperlogical  kyoka. 

When  you  are  down,  brother,  you  are  .  .  .  out. 

Even  old  neighbors  never  call  when  poverty  comes  to  stay 
No  mountain  retreat  keeps  the  world  half  so  far  away! 

This  poem,  not  at  all  famous,  should  have  become  a  saying.  These 
readings,  albeit  in  the  wrong  language,  are  dedicated  to  that  end. 

6ji  uba  soji  hiuba  hioji  kotogotoku  shinazu  ni  ite  wa  nani  o  kuwasen  yuchoro  16c 
grndpa  grndma  grt-grma  grt-gpa  evrybdy  die-not-w/  being-as4  what+acc  feed-let-not 

Grandma,  Grandpa,  Great-grandma  Great-grandpa,  if  every  one 
not  dying,  stayed,  we  're  beat:  What  the  hell  would  we  then  eat! 

Grandma,  Grandpa,  Great-grandma,  Great-grandpa  -  say  'when'! 
If  no  one  died  but  stayed  alive,  what  would  remain  to  feed  them? 

The  original  is  plain.  A  prefatory  note  mentions  having  a  hard  time 
keeping  his  mother,  but  I  cannot  help  wondering  if  there  was  a  play  about 
life-extension,  or,  observing  the  unification  of  Japan,  Yuchoro  (1547-1602), 
guessed  that  after  centuries  of  feudal  warfare,  peace  was  around  the  corner 
and  threatened  to  burden  families  with  superfluous  members.  An  anon, 
poem  in  the  great  1666  Savage  anthology  suggests  it  happened  quickly: 

=f-  t*  t>  &     Kir  &     tz.fi  e  v  ^  w  ft  (t  fi  uz^-tz 

kodomo  o  ba  sushi  ni  suru  hodo  mochitaredo  ihi  ga  nakereba  hiboshi  ni  suru  anon 
children+emph.  sushi-into  make  amount  have  but  rice  not-if  sun-dried  into  make 

On  seeing  poor  people  with  many  children 

They  have  kids  enough  to  make  sushi  and  still  are  not  done? 
When  rice  runs  out,  they  may  need  to  cure  them  in  the  sun! 

Not  to  kid,  but  they  have  enough  of  them  to  make  sushi! 
Or,  lacking  rice,  sun-dried  might  do,  though  I  like  juicy! 

"Juicy  "  is  born  of  rhyme,  alone.  The  idiom  has  a  "packed  like  a  sardines" 
feeling.  Rice  was  used  to  ferment  the  old-style  sushi,  which  was  often 
slept  on  for  the  warmth  and  pressure.  Poor  people  often  had  little  if  any 
rice,  but  provided  they  had  some  access  to  sunlight  ....  This  almost 
Modest  Proposal  expanded  the  sushi  idiom  into  two  ways  of  preserving 


large  catches.  The  "sun-dried"  generally  makes  one  think  of  pilchards  and 
other  small  fry,  as  such  were  (and  are)  common. 


hito  mo  minu  yado  ni  sakura  o  uetareba  hana  mote  yatsusu  mi  to  zo  narinikeri  shikibu  d.  1030 
people+emph  see-not  lodge-by  cherries+ac  planted-if  blossoms-having  wasting  self/body+emp  become+fm. 


J>  Beauty  -  Who  Says  'You  Can't  Take  It  With  You?'  J> 

I'd  ring  my  room  with  cherry  trees  that  none  will  come  to  view! 
I'll  go  to  seed  with  my  bloom.  -  Now,  that  is  something  new! 

Ringing  my  cottage  no  one  calls  with  cherries  none  will  view 
I'll  lose  my  looks  but  also  find  my  dotage  blooms  anew! 

I  plant  cherries  no  man  comes  to  view  around  my  cottage 
In  full  bloom,  I  pine  away  -  that 's  beauty  in  my  dotage. 


Compare  the  above  readings  with  that  by  Thomas  McAuley  and  students 
at  Sheffield  found  on-line:  No  one  at  all  sees  /  This  house  with  cherries  / 
Planted  so  /  The  blossoms  must  /  Have  made  me  seedy  GSIS  #101.  Theirs 
was  a  good  guess.  Without  a  "yet"  or  "but"  in  the  original,  the  relation- 
ship between  the  bloom  and  wasting  away  is  not  explicit.  And,  it  is  better 
to  guess  and  sometimes  create  a  good  translation  than  waffle,  as  many  - 
possibly  most  -  translators  do,  cowardly  guaranteeing  a  poor  translation 
rather  than  risk  a  mistake.  But,  their  guess  unfortunately  misses  the  wit. 
Attractiveness,  love  and  living  alone  are  standard  waka  fare,  but  Izumi 
Shikibu' s  gleefully  (the  zo  ending  coming  from  a  woman  is  no  mere 
emphatic  but  a  gleeful  one)  expressed  paradox  is  kyoka.  The  first  three 
readings  are  a  tad  overstated,  kudoi,  compared  to  the  original.  Later 
translators  can  always  tone  things  down.  This  translator  wishes  to  see  the 
wit  of  the  poets  of  Japan,  overlooked  both  in  translation  and,  worst,  by  the 
Japanese  themselves  to  be  dragged  out  into  the  open  where  it  can  be  seen 
and  identified.  First  things  first.  Ultimately  subtlety  is  desirable,  but  first 
we  must  get  it!  Shikibu  wrote  many  poems  that  might  be  considered  kyoka, 
and  there  is  no  question  Japanese  once  appreciated  her  as  a  particularly 
logical  wit.  Paradoxically,  the  proof  is  in  something  attributed  to  her, 
which  records  of  her  travel,  etc.  confirm  she  almost  certainly  did  not  write: 


/  ring  my  hut 
with  flowering  cherries 
none  will  see: 

Merry  it  is  to  go  to  seed 
yet  keep  oneself  in  bloom! 


moto  yori  mo  chiri  ni  majiwaru  kami  nareba  tsuki  no  sawari  mo  nani  ga  kurushiki 
origin-from+emph.  scraps-in  mix  gods  are-if  moon-blockage+emph  what's  painful? 

Have  not  the  Gods,  one  with  paper,  always  mixed  with  other  litter? 
What  is  wrong  with  riding  horses  that  they  should  mind  our  courses? 

The  story  has  it  that  an  hour  from  the  main  (Shinto)  shrine  in  Kumano,  she 
noticed  her  menses  coming  on  and,  stopping,  holed  up  in  a  hut  in  the 
woods  to  pray,  where  she  composed  a  poem  about  her  sadness  at 
"clouding  the  moon"  (Rftl^>fcS&#tf)  5  %M(Dtz.t£XJ>%XR(D£1o*)  tttZ? 

JE?t  hare yaranu).  That  night,  the  shrine's  tutelary  deity  responded 
in  a  dream  w/  the  above,  after  which  she  visited  the  shrine.  The  tedious 
expression  "one  with  paper"  covers  the  pun-equation  of  god/s  and  paper 
in  the  single  word  kami  that  supplied  the  rationale  for  allowing  a  visit  in 
mid-course.  "Horses, "  added  for  rhyme,  are  justifiable  as  protective 
devices  resembled  equestrian  gear  and  the  possibility  of  falling  off  the 
horse  if  one  did  not  "ride"  carefully  resulted  in  just  such  a  metaphor 
centuries  later,  when  it  gave  rise  to  countless  senryu  {The  Woman  Without  a 
Hole  ch.3).  "Her"  waka,  that  only  dates  back  to  the  mid- 14c  is  both  elegant 
and  gutsy  merely  for  mentioned  the  unmentionable,  while  the  apocryphal 
response,  challenging  a  taboo  with  a  homophonic  pun  is  clearly  kyoka. 
Here  is  another  horseless  reading  of  the  tutelary  deity's  dream  reply: 

If  Gods  and  Paper  are  both  kami  and  that  includes  the  Rag, 
Why  should  your  Monthlies  make  the  Shrine  Guards  gag? 

As  no  record  has  Shikibu  visiting  said  Shrine;  the  legend  t^ffi^P^^ofc 
%>\jkWL  is  considered  1)  an  example  of  a  waka  getting  gods  to  respond  SfcfiS 
IMS  and  2)  a  teaching  tool  to  overcome  what  most  shrines  considered 
superstition,  to  encourage  female  visitors.  The  original  is  more  elegant 
than  either  translation  but  that  did  not  prevent  the  always  outrageous 
Yuchoro  from  cooking  up  a  rude  response.  It  is  captioned  "Spring,"  and 
includes  a  spring,  or  izumi,  because  Izumi  is  Shikibu 's  family  name. 

yoru  goto  ni  shikibu  ga  soso  ya  araurashi  musubu  izumi  no  mizu  no  kusasa  wa 
night-each-on  shikibu's  pussy+emph.  washes-(it's  said)  cupping  spring  water's  stink-as-for 
by  Yuchoro  ^t^GD*^  1547-1602  ftm^mX'SWl  in  fUfo±M  U 

Night  after  night,  Shikibu  her  soso  washes;  my,  how  stinky 
The  Spring  water  she  cups  between  her  thumb  and  pinky! 

Soso,  a  woman's  genitals,  is  too  folksy  for  quim  and  too  pleasant  for  c  /. 


P  y  was  tempting,  but  on  the  West  side  of  the  Atlantic,  any  word  for 

country  matters  not  clearly  Latin  is  bad  (not  true  for  the  English  who  use  the 
c  word  as  a  term  of  endearment,  often  for  men!).  Readers  of  The  Woman 
Without  a  Hole  have  time  to  acclimate  (?)  to  these  harmless  words,  but  in 
this  book,  where  they  are  few  and  far  between,  your  translator  cowardly 
deferred  to  the  Japanese.  Beloved  by  two  Emperors,  Shikibu  had  fine 
marital  relations  and  her  self-confidence  as  well  as  her  logical  mind  made 
her  the  right  woman  for  the  apocryphal  exchange  but  the  fact  she  could 
have  concealed  her  condition  and  said  nothing  allowed  Yuchoro  to 
imagine  her  so  ripe  as  to  give  herself  away  without  a  word,  but  he  may 
also  have  been  drawn  to  compose  that  poem  because  1),  according  to 
Suzuki  Tozo,  he  tasted  a  well  at  a  temple  (M'[>P3t:f#^fnl^p|^)  where 
she  was  given  a  retreat  (which  presumably  tasted  bad)  and  was  actually 
referring  to  it,  and  2),  he  simply  could  not  resist  playing  with  her  name. 
Like  rhyme,  pun  can  create  its  own  reason.  And  though  Yuchoro 's  gross 
and  juvenile  poem  may  seem  to  have  nothing  in  common  with  the  others 
we  have  seen  in  this  chapter,  in  the  end,  it  is  not  so  different.  It  was  born 
more  of  logic  than  experience.  A  gloss  in  the  1589  book  says  "I  have  not 
read  anything  at  all  about  Izumi  Shikibu  having  a  bad  odor,  but  one  can 
hardly  criticize  such  an  okusetsu  {deep/obscure-theory).  Hoh!  The  gloss 
itself  puns.  Oku,  or,  "deep, "  is  slang  for  a  woman's  private  part  and 
implies  the  name  of  the  place  she  worked,  the  inner  palace!  Yuchoro  was, 
of  course,  joking.  He  would  have  known  that  Shikibu,  being  attentive  to 
logic,  was  not  afraid  of  being  sniffed  out.  She  was  something  else.  The 
word  for  it  is  principled. 


t>t£<9  i>mfc&\zz>n z^txh<  tztigtte &&&&&  < mmm  intake 


moto  yori  mo  chiri  ni  majiwaru  kamija  tote  akutare  mono  to  nasase  tamau  na  ~  no  yotsuya 
origin-from  trash-with  mix/ing  gods  are  you  say.  trashy/low-class-personage-as  make  please-not 


This  kyoka  from  the  1785  Tokuwa  Kago  Manzaishu,  representative  book 
of  the  Tenmei  kyoka  craze,  is  a  far  more  reasonable  objection  -  and  note 
that  here,  as  with  Yuchoro 's  response,  the  dream  reply  is  credited  to  the 
dreamer  rather  than  the  tutelary  god.  The  Japanese  does  not  actually  begin 
"Lady,"  but  that  is  the  gist  of  it.  And,  here,  once  again  is  wild  man 
Yuchoro.  After  that  stinky  soso  poem,  he  may  be  in  bad  odour  with  some 
readers  and,  hopefully,  this  poem  reprinted  in  the  1666  Savage  anthology, 
where  logic  leads  in  a  less  reprehensible  direction,  will  rehabilitate  him. 


Lady,  how  brash, 
to  say  gods  have  always 
mixed  with  trash! 


Lady,  must  you 
claim  that  we  have  always 
mixed  with  crap? 


Don  'tyou  go  turning  us 
into  litter  bugs  or  bums! 


Please  clean  your  mouth: 
gods  don 't  need  a  bum  rap! 


45 


shirami  hodo  yo  o  hetsurawanu  mono  wa  nashi  musaki  hito  ni  wa  koto  ni  chikazuku 
lice  as-much  world  fawn-upon  one/being-as4  not,  filthy  people-as4  espec.  approches 

None  suck  up  Who 's  further 

to  the  World  less  than  from  the  toad-eater 

they  do,  the  Lice:  than  a  louse, 

No  toad-eaters,  they  suck  up  Currying  favor  mostly 

to  the  mean  and  not  the  nice!  in  the  meanest  house! 

Before  introducing  some  final  sundry  examples  of  kyoka  where  logic 
explains  things  usually  not  explained,  let  us  go  back  a  decade  or  two 
before  the  real  Shikibu  flourished  to  a  poetic  exercise  in  pure  logic. 


katana  mote  nagaruru  mizu  wa  kiritsu  to  mo  hito  no  kokoro  o  ikaga  tanoman 
sword  take  running  water-as4  cut  even/though  man's  heart+acc  how  trust-would?!  kkr  2198 

Though  my  sword  a  flowing  stream  might,  cutting,  part, 
Could  I  ever  put  my  trust  in  another  person 's  heart? 

furu  yuki  o  sora  ni  tomete  wa  arinu  to  mo  hito  no  kokoro  o  ikaga  tanoman 
falling  snow+acc  sky-in  stop-as-for  is  even/though  man's  heart+acc  ...  ?!  kkr  2201 

Say  you  suspend  in  the  sky  the  falling  snow,  that's  when 
You  '11  find  a  human  heart  to  trust,  but  not  before  then. 

Edwin  Cranston  translated  forty  waka,  written  by  four  top  poets  of  the  age 
(10-1  lc),  including  Kokinshu  editor  Ki  no  Tsurayuki,  all  of  which  claim 
the  likelihood  of  finding  a  human  heart  that  can  be  relied  upon  is 
contingent  upon  an  impossibility  described  in  the  first  half  of  the  poem 
(Waka  2a).  The  preface  for  the  series'  lead  mentions  parting  from  an 
unfaithful  woman,  but  all  four  poets  were  underpaid  low-ranking 
aristocrats,  with  reason  to  begrudge  the  shifting  sands  of  socio-politics,  so 
the  apparent  sexism  may  cover  broader  discontent.  So  much  was  pointed 
out  by  Cranston,  who  properly  found  a  way  to  end  all  of  the  poems 
identically  as  the  final  7-7  is  the  same  in  all  of  the  originals.  The  two 
translations  above  are  different  as  your  lazy  translator  was  only  interested 
in  maximizing  the  readability  of  the  individual  poems  rather  than 
consistency.  While  the  poems  may  speak  to  deteriorating  human  relations 
in  that  age,  we  should  not  take  them  too  seriously  as  the  poets'  main 
inspiration  was  probably  neither  experience  nor  circumstance  but  the 
platform.  Logic  asked  to  play  within  limits,  explodes  in  joy. 


ikabakari  ebi  o  tori-kuu  mukui  araba  tsui  ni  wa  oi  no  koshiya  kagaman  takuan 
howmany  shrimp+acc  taking  eat  punishmnt  is-if,  end-in  age's  back  bend-would! 

The  number  of  Shrimp  you  eat  may  be  cause  for  alarmal 
You  could  end  up  equally  bent  -  that  is,  if  there  is  karma. 

If  there  is  Karma,  the  number  of  shrimp  we  do  or  don 't  eat 
Leaves  us  straight  or  bent  so  low  our  heads  rest  on  our  feet. 

If  each  shrimp  we  eat  comes  back  to  bite  us  in  the  end, 
To  various  degrees  some  day,  our  old  backs  will  bend. 

If  we  must  pay  for  each  shrimp  we  eat  then  in  the  end 
Is  it  any  wonder  that  with  age  our  backs  must  bend? 

To  understand  why  this  is  far  wittier  than  it  may  seem,  you  need  to  know 
that  every  feature  of  the  ebi=shrimp  (a  word  including  the  giant  Ise  shrimp, 
a  creature  we  call  a  crawfish  in  Florida  but  most  people  call  a  lobster 
despite  its  lack  of  pinchers)  is  propitious,  significant  as  the  embodiment  of 
the  most  valued  of  all  treasures,  longevity.  Yes,  they  are  bent,  but  spry  as 
a  fiddle,  snappy  as  jumping  beans  and  full  of  the  rosy  color  of  good  health. 
Did  Takuan  (1573-1645)  take  issue  with  the  desirability  of  a  bent  back?  Or, 
did  he,  as  a  monk  who  reflected  on  the  sin  of  taking  life  and  a  logic-loving 
man,  realize  how  odd  it  is  that  we  benefit  by  eating  rather  than  protecting 
this  symbol?  Karma  is  an  awfully  stiff  word.  Mukui  is  more  like  come- 
uppance or  reaping  what  we  sow.  All  of  these  expressions  have  problems 
here,  so  we  went  with  karma,  though  it  came  with  unwanted  baggage  of 
its  own.  But  .  .  .  wait  a  moment!  There  is  a  way,  or  rather  an  idiom  that 
saves  the  poem  in  translation: 

One  can  hardly  eat  a  shrimp  without  causing  any  hurt; 
After  years  of  eating  them  a  crooked  back  is  just  dessert! 

That  got  around  the  karma  and,  with  the  food  association  provides  a 
metaphysical  snap!  The  same  mukui  translated  differently  may  be  seen  in 
a  lament  by  Tenmei  kyoka- master  Hamabe  no  Kurohito  (pg.233). 


When  asked  how  one  who  wanders  without  fixed  abode  knows  where  to  sleep  - 

Wheresoever  I  sleep  when  I  grow  sleepy  is  my  place  to  keep 
As  to  where  I'll  go  awake  .  .  .  there  you  may  have  a  case! 


waga  an  wa  nebutai  toki  ni  neru  tokoro  okite  no  nochi  wa  shiranu  narikeri  jinkyu 
my  hut-as-for  sleep-want  time-at  sleeping-place  waking-after-as-for  know-not  is+emph! 

Where  I  sleep  when  I  fall  asleep  you  may  call  my  flat: 
As  for  where  I'll  be  awake,  I  never  know  that! 

Though  the  poet  is  a  monk  there  is  no  religious  message  here  other  than 
the  nature  of  the  response  itself  coming  from  the  Zen  tradition  that  some 
might  consider  paradoxical.  It  might  better  be  called  absolutely  honest  and 
hyperlogical.  Whatever  it  is  called,  it  is  where  the  best  of  conceptual  kyoka 
and,  come  to  think  of  it,  Groucho  Marx,  come  from. 

"Asked  for  a  poem  in  response  to  the  attitude  expressed  in  the  following  waka  " 

jtiKDtpfcfrV)  (DjktttltfrV  ~h  =t  LW<D-\\ttM-ZXMZ>  h  X  L  feSAanon. 
yononaka  wa  kari  no  yo  naredo  kari  mo  yoshi  yume  no  yo  nareba  mata  neru  mo  yoshi 
world-in-as4  temp  =borro wed  wrld  is  but  brrrwng's  fine  dream-wrld  is-if  again  sleepng's  fine 

Is  the  world  of  life  on  loan?  I'll  just  borrow  it  to  reap! 

Is  the  world  but  a  dream?  Well,  then  I  guess  I'll  sleep! 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~  or  ~ —  ~~~~~ — 

This  world  may  only  be  lent,  but  I'm  happy  just  to  rent. 
This  world  may  be  a  dream,  but  isn 't  sleeping  pleasant? 

Teiryu,  the  man  who,  in  the  early- 18c  Osaka,  ran  what  might  be  the  largest 
one-man  franchise  of  kyoka  ever  created,  responded: 

This  world  may  be  lent,  but  it 's  damn  hard  to  actually  rent. 

This  world  may  be  a  dream;  sleep  would  be  more  pleasant. 

 or  ~  

This  world  may  be  on  loan,  but  though  you  pay  it  will  not  keep. 
The  world  may  be  but  a  dream.  Nice,  perhaps,  if  you  can  sleep. 

yononaka  wa  kari  no  yo  naredo  kari-nikushi  yume  no  yo  naredo  so  mo  nerarezu  teiryu 
world-in-as4  temp -borrowed  wrld  is  but  brrwng's  hard  dream-wrld  is-if  much  sleep  cannot 

Both  poems  are  better  in  the  original  for  the  unEnglishable  pun  on 
" temporary/transient"  =  kari  =  "rent/ borrow.  "  The  first  poem  is  standard 
Japanese  Epicureanism  and  Teiryu's  retort,  almost  surely  composed  in  his 
old  age,  picks  up  on  the  standard  punning  arguments  and  conceptually 
challenges  them  with  the  double-edged  blade  of  logic. 


J>  Japanese  "free-thinking. "  I  follow  the  lead  of  Captain  Vasilii  Mikhailovich 
Golownin,  who  was  detained  in  Japan  from  18H-13  (Memoirs  of  a  Captivity  in 
Japan).   He  explained  how  the  Japanese  intellectuals  who  visited  him  did  not 


believe  in  religion  yet  thought  it  good  for  the  masses  and  a  useful  tool  of  the 
good  governance  that  provided  a  long  peace  (unlike  the  constant  wars  in  Europe) 
to  their  isolated  nation.  I  quote  him  at  some  length  in  Topsy-turvy  1585  and 
hypothesize  whether  such  thought  might  not  have  inspired  the  famous  Grand 
Inquisitor  parable  in  Dostoevsky's  Brothers  Karamazov  (1879-1880). 

P  Hell's  Fiction.  Ikkyu  and  other  Zen  monks  probably  did  not  believe  in  such 
and  recognized  them  as  useful  tools.  An  oft-translated  (since  Blyth  found  it) 
senryu  has  a  monk  telling  his  mistress  not  to  worry  for  it  is  a  fiction  (great  sin 
included  horrible  punishments  supposedly  awaited  clergy  who  swived  women 
and  the  vice  versa).  In  the  absence  of  a  thorough  study  of  the  dis/belief  of  Zen 
and  the  intellectual  classes  of  Japan,  my  assumption  is  only  a  half-educated  guess. 

P  Too  many  dependents.  Suzuki  Tozo  writes  that  Yuchoro's  complaint  about  an 
overpopulation  of  old  folk  was  particularly  outrageous  because  he  was  a  monk 
who  should  have  preached  mercy  for  all  life.  An  interesting  observation  when 
we  consider  the  best-known  treatise  on  the  same  problem  in  the  Occident  was  by 
Malthus,  a  preacher.  But,  we  should  bear  in  mind  the  fact  that  inheriting  a 
temple  no  more  made  Yuchoro  a  faithful  Buddhist  than  gaining  a  parish  made 
Charles  Darwin  a  Christian  (like  his  Grandfather,  he  was  a  free-thinker  at  heart). 
As  this  poem  concerns  a  matter  particularly  salient  today,  here  is  the  older 
orthography  from  his  hundred  poem  anthology  ttJfc^JEl&la  %.  in  Broadview. 

It  is  preceded  with  this:  fglR  $PWi£3;  SrV^bftS  Zffi±ft&<D%tft&M& 
o!#Ji^r  *  Your  translator  is  not  well-versed  with  old  prose,  but  it  would  seem 
he  indirectly  apologizes  for  an  outrageous  poem  by  explaining  that  having  to  take 
care  of  his  mother  has  been  no  easy  matter. 

P  One  I  missed.  From  the  1666  Savage  Anthology. 

banbutsu  no  sodaterarureba  tsuki  to  hi  o  amanohara  naru  chibusa  to  ya  min  raien 
ten-thousand/all-things'  raised-are-if  moon/nth  &  sun/day+acc  heaven's 
(milk?)  meadow/fields(belly?)-is/are  breasts/tits-as+emph  see-would 

As  All  Things  by  ye  Sun  and  ye  Moon,  are  raised,  my  Wits 
Of  Bodies  Celestial,  these  two  can  only  be  .  .  .  the  Tits! 

Those  who  follow  the  micro-  as  the  macro-cosmos  know  that  the  usual  observation  is 
how  the  relative  similarity  of  diameter  of  the  sun  and  moon  viewed  from  earth 
qualifies  them  to  be  eye  balls.  Tits  are  something  new.  The  loss  of  a  pun  -  "heaven" 
as  ama  no  hara  or  the  heavenly  field=hara=belly  -  and  possible  pun  -  in  many 
dialects,  anma=milk  -  is  not  critical,  but  the  loss  of  conceptual  underpinning  which 
justifies  the  growth  over  time  -  in  Japanese,  the  Sun  and  Moon  are  also  days  and 
months  -  that  implies  the  presence  of  nursing  cannot  be  recouped  in  English. 


Wingless  Tofu  and  Other  Fantasies:  Mad  Surreality 

karigamo  wa  ware  o  misutete  sarinikeri  tofu  ni  hane  no  naki  zo  ureshiki  ryokan  1758-1831 
geese  ducks-as-for  me+acc  abandoning  leave+fm.  tofu-on  wings-not+emph.  joyful 


The  geese  &  duck  Geese  &  duck 

abandon  me  and  leave.  leaving,  I  am  out  of  luck 

Thank  goodness  happily,  I  see 

that  our  tofu,  at  least  My  tofu,  lacking  wings 

does  not  boast  wings!  cannot  abandon  me! 


Living  in  the  heyday  of  kyoka  and  practicing  Zen  with  its  surreal  leaps  of 
(al)logic,  Monk  Ryokan  came  naturally  to  his  wingless  tofu.  Like  Issa,  he 
was  outside  the  kyoka  movement,  but  his  poetic  reparatory  was  more 
varied,  including  long  stanzas  between  Chinese  style  and  what  came  to  be 
called  modern  poetry.  The  kernel  of  the  above  poem  is  the  haikai  seasonal 
motif,  the  return  of  the  geese  to  parts  westward,  despite  the  cherries  in  full 
bloom,  choosing,  as  Teitoku  put  it  in  one  of  his  many  amusing  ku, 
"dumplings  over  flowers,"  i.e.,  food  over  decoration,  the  practical  over  the 
ideal.  Issa,  who  marveled  at  the  thick-skin  shibutosa  of  these  birds  capable 
of  turning  their  backs  on  such  beauty,  himself  professed  to  prefer  the 
dumplings  in  his  old  age.  Since  fowl  was  eaten  -  and  even  monks  did 
sometimes  indulge  -  the  tofu,  or  protein,  connection  is  not  utterly  off  the 
wall.  But  who  would  have  thought  to  celebrate  the  winglessness  of  tofu! 
True,  the  fmless  gefilte  fish  swims  with  difficulty  (Bader:  Haiku  for  Jews 
1999),  but  even  it  is  more  aerodynamic  than  a  block  of  tofu.)  This  might 
seem  an  odd  choice  for  a  poem  to  start  a  chapter  on  fantasy,  but  I  wanted 
to  make  a  point  about  how  little  is  needed  to  create  one.  Here,  we  imagine 
a  block  of  tofu  sporting  wings  because  Ryokan  is  delighted  that  they  do 
not  have  them.  If  that's  not  food  for  thought,  what  is! 

-m^^^t^m.^\hmmm^^nxx^x>M^ 

ichido  sae  yasetaru  tono  o  yama-kumo  ga  ito  hiki  kakete  ten  e  mai  agaru  ryokan 
once+emph.  skinny  lord+acc.  mountain-spider  thread  pull-catching  heaven-to  dancing-raise 

Just  once,  I'd  see  our  dear  Lord  Bean  Pole  hoisted  dancing 
up  to  heaven  by  a  thread  spun  by  an  alpine  spider! 

If  only  English  read  well  vertically,  as  Japanese  does,  this  poem,  that 
seems  to  fuse  the  ancient  thin-man  roast  with  the  nursery  poem  of  the 
future,  would  be  the  single  dangling  line  it  ought  to  be.  There  is  an 
allusive  pun,  the  usual  way  to  ascend  being  on  a  cloud  =  kumo,  a  spider 
homophone,  from  a  mountain,  but  the  poem  remains  an  example  of  mad 
ideas  'frcoJE  as  opposed  to  word-play!   If  you  happen  to  belong  to  the 


ranks  of  the  involuntarily  thin  (unlike  the  fortunate  fat,  really  unable  to 
control  their  weight)  and  would  see  an  example  of  your  oppression,  by  all 
means  see  the  poems,  often  cited  as  typical  kidding-songs  -  and 
sometimes  as  early  examples  of  bullying!  -  in  the  740-page  Monster 
where  they  have  a  whole  chapter.  Here,  we  shall  see  two  others,  also  in  the 
Monster  ("Manyoshu's  Mean  Little  Poems  of  Little  Meaning"),  as  they 
are  the  more  fantastic.  In  fact,  they  give  us  some  great  ideas  for  fleshing 
out  the  experience  of  Gulliver  on  the  isle  of  Lilliput. 

warawa  domo  kusa  na  kari  so  yahotade  o  okina  no  aso  ga  wakigusa?  o  kare  mys  #3842 
children  grass/weed  don't  crop  yahotade  oldman's  aso's  underarm  grass=stink?+acc.  crop! 


The  Alar  Alarum 
(a  poem  of  priorities) 

Hey,  kiddos,  skip  that  grass! 

It's  not  half  so  thick 
as  the  leek  in  old  lord  Aso's 
armpit  -  Cut  it! 

Rank  Garden  Axillary  Alarm 


Hey,  boys,  Hey,  kids, 

Let  the  green  grass  be!  the  meadow  can  wait! 

Rather  cut  the  blooming  cane 

below  the  arms  of  the  old  grandee  Mow  Sir  Aso 's  underarms 

Aso,  by  name.  before  it 's  too  late! 


The  most  memorable  comic  poems  in  the  8c  Manydshu  remind  one  of  the 
cruel  kidding  of  children.  Most,  like  this,  are  anonymous.  Such  is  not  the 
case  with  most  kyoka,  but  the  hyperbolic  wit  and  inanity  is  shared. 

Now  you  may  talk  about  your  horn  of  plenty 
Compared  to  his  armpit,  it  is  empty. 

Light  poems  let  us  relax,  making  it  easier  for  translation  as  re-creation. 
Let  us  see  another,  also  picking  on  Minister  Aso.  As  the  page  is  fixing  to 
turn,  explanation  first.  Aso  is  also  a  clan  and  its  locality,  a  range  of  flat- 
topped  hills  near  Nara.  The  implied  use  for  "true-vermilion"  is  copper, 
perhaps  for  a  giant  Buddha  statue.  The  obsolete  maso  (Mfc  "true  vermi- 
lion"), not  in  Japanese-English  dictionaries,  is  the  red,  vermeil  clay  or  tuff 
loam,  source  for  vermilion  and  copper.  Cinnabar,  used  for  mercury,  is 
different,  but  also  is  described  as  vermilion,  so  poetic  license  excuses  it. 


izuku  ni  so  masd  horu  okakomo  tatami  heguri  no  aso  ga  hana  no  ue  o  hore  manyo 
whenever+emph.  vermillion  dig  okakomo  tatami  heguri  aso's  nose-upon+acc  dig! 


You  want  to  mine  vermilion  from  a  vein  that 's  big? 
Go  to  the  flat-top  hills,  find  Aso 's  nose,  then  dig! 


Looking  for  vermilion? 
There 's  an  inexhaustible  vein 
In  the  nose  of  Aso  of  Heguri  plain 

You  say  you  're  short  of  cinnabar? 
I've  the  answer  for  your  woes: 
Go  find  old  Aso  and 
dig  up  his  nose. 


Aso  is  not  only  a  rank  in  the  bureaucracy  but  a  term  of  endearment;  hence 
"old."  A  heavy  drinker?  Not  necessarily.  Bulbous  red  noses  pretty  much 
grow  themselves;  I  knew  a  sober  Japanese  man  with  a  large,  flat-topped 
red  nose.  Y's  image,  somewhat  like  the  lion  in  The  Wizard  of  Oz,  came  to 
mind  many  times  while  paraversing  this  poem. 


Yes,  I  wove  in  some  Mother  Goose.  I  do  the  same  when  improvising  with 
Indian  or  Okinawan  music.  Poets  do  it  all  the  time  in  Japan. 


kakureite  waga  ato  saranu  kageboshi  inarabete  dani  tsuki  o  miyogashi  kotomichi  19c 
hidden-is  my-behind  leave-not  shadow/form-monk  sits-lined-up+emph.  moon+acc  see-would 


Always  hiding  behind  me,  shadow-monk,  I  wish  you  could 
Come  out  to  see  this  moon,  sit  by  my  side,  if  you  would. 

Shadow-monk  is  the  standard  term  for  one's  shadow  and,  as  "shadow"  in 
Japanese,  as  once  was  the  case  for  English,  also  means  ones  reflection  or 
image,  it  seems  a  more  substantial  entity  even  without  its  monkifer.  And, 


Looking  for  red  clay  to  mine? 
I  know  where  there 's  a  hill  — 

Try  the  flat-as-a-mat  Heguri  range 
Old  Aso 's  nose  should  be  there  still. 


Up  with  the  moon,  alone 


Japanese,  with  their  paper  walls,  had  more  fun  with  shadow-play  than  any 
other  people  on  earth,  though  I  doubt  there  was  that  much  paper  in  the  12c 
when  Saigyo  established  the  precedent  (which  I  would  guess  goes  back  to 
China)  of  shadow-monk  moon- viewing,  though  his,  lined  up  (moro  tomo  ni 
kage  .  .  .),  are  just  a  sidelong  view  of  a  moon- viewing,  while  Okuma 
Kotomichi  (1798-1868),  whose  name  translates  as  "word- way,"  by 
addressing  his  shadow-monk  (as  Ryokan  did  his  reflection  in  the  gruel), 
knowingly  creates  a  fantasy.  Kotomichi  was  known  as  a  waka  poet  but,  if 
you  ask  me,  this  touching  invitation,  a  bold  and  not  at  all  pathetic 
"fallacy,"  belongs  in  any  good  collection  of  kyoka,  as  does  his  next, 

haru  kurete  nagaki  hi  sabishi  yamahiko  mo  hitorigochi  dani  kyo  wa  seyogashi 
spring  darkened  long  day/s  lonely  echo  too  alone-talk+emph.  tody-as4  do-would! 

Spring  is  old,  the  hours  of  sunlight  long  and  lonely 
Echo,  might  not  today  be  a  good  time  to  try  soliloquy? 

Summer  nears,  the  days  grow  long  and  lonely  -  Echo,  say, 
You,  too,  might  do  well  to  talk  to  yourself  today! 


If  you  find  Kotomichi' s  poems  sweet  and  appealing,  it  is  because  he  is.  A 
nativist  who  treasured  Japan's  past,  he  nevertheless  published  the  best 
defense  of  the  use  of  Chinese  terms  in  Japanese  poetry  -  once  Japanese 
were  used  to  such,  they  were  for  all  who  used  them  as  natural  and  heart- 
felt as  anything  usually  regarded  as  native  and  not  at  all  artificial  (see  the 
740-page  monster  for  the  quote)  -  ever  written.  I  suppose  we  should  call 
the  above  a  "facetious  fantasy."  Likewise  for  the  next,  taken  from  The 
Untranslatable  Lightness  of  Nakarai  Bokuyo  chapter  in  the  740-p  Monster. 
It  was  the  chapter  lead,  and  this  mad  poet  takes  us  back  to  the  17c. 


utsukushiki  hana  no  shitaba  o  miru  kara  ni  kuchisuisen  to  hito  ya  iuran  bokuyo  1607-1678 

Seeing  a  beautiful  flower's  lower  leaves,  entrance  narcissus  is  what  people  say. 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
Seeing  a  beautiful  wife  in  her  bloom,  I'd  kiss  her  is  what  other  men  say! 

7f<{ilj7££^tf-C§ftcfc  tibb^tffitt. 

~  asked  for  a  poem  about  posing  a  narcissus  ~ 

This  beautiful  flower  has  no  limbs  to  hold,  but  leaves  below 
to  the  imagination  and  Narcissus  may  be  kissed,  you  know! 

As  noted  in  the  Monster,  I  lucked  out  on  that  translation;  but,  even  then 
the  sex  is  wrong  and  your  translator  never  could  unite  the  lines  separated 


53 


by  plus  signs  or  address  the  pun  on  lower  leaves  shitaba  as  a  commoner 's 
wife,  pulled  along  by  a  string  of  facial  features  (nose=hana=bud  to 
teeth=ha=leaves  and  finally  the  mouth,  fusing  with  the  biggest  pun  on  the 
flower's  name:  llkuchi=mouth-narcissus=suisen=sucking-do-would.  Note 
that  sucking-mouths  was  common  idiom  for  kissing  and  mouth  may  have 
other  meanings  such  as  the  alcove  by  the  entrance,  etc.  (T  P  3r  t  <S  =KM 
19       —P&V^L/hSU  I±1AP©^?)  but,  who  knows! 

Z$tlkXir±%(DfeX  ^^Utfkh  \^kX<M<&Z>-kW&  hit 
gozare  tote  susuki  no  ho  dete  manekedomo  iya  tote  kuneri  kuneru  ominaeshi  bokuyo 
have  say/as-if  miscanthus  plume-in  showng  beckonng  but  yuck  sy/as-if  wriggle  x2  mdflws 

P  Read  when  a  group  of  men  went  for  an  outing  on  the  Autumn  moor  J> 

'See,  we  have  them! '  beckon  the  waving  plumes  of  the  miscanthus; 
How  they  squirm  in  dismay!  The  maiden  flowers  cannot  stand  us. 

The  verb  kuneru  cannot  settle  its  own  connotation.  The  "yuck"  in  this 
poem  made  me  realize  my  reading  of  what  Issa  meant  in  a  haiku  when  he 
requested  that  maiden  flowers  kuneru  more  as  wriggle  -  or  even  grind  - 
might  have  been  off.  I  imagined  a  demand  for  a  display  of  physical  charms, 
when  Issa  may  have  meant  he  wanted  to  see  more  bashfulness  (attractive  in 
most  cultures)!  Or,  maybe  not.  With  haikai,  there  is  generally  room  for 
only  one  conceit  at  a  time.  By  using  his  extra  14-mora  to  introduce  and 
thereby  combine  two  in  this  manner,  Bokuyo  creates  a  miniature  play,  a 
fantasy  that  reveals  more.  He  was  not  the  first  to  do  so;  a  generation 
earlier,  another  mad  poet,  a  monk's  100-kydka  collection  included  this: 

ito  susuki  tare  to  nete  sate  haramu  ran  soba  de  shimeji  ga  hara  zo  tachikeru  nyuan  1610 
string=child-miscanthus  who  w/  sleepng/slpt,  well,  conceives!  side-by  champgnn's  belly!  stands! 

P  Bride  before  Fall?  P 

Little  Miss  Canthus, 
with  whom  did  you  sleep,  now 
it 's  starting  to  show! 

Is  that  your  champ  Pignon  erect, 
He  looks  like  one  angry  beau! 

The  Miscanthus  plumes  become  obvious  in  the  fall  and  that  is  called 
coming  out  in  the  tail  and  a  common  trope  for  love  affairs  that  bear  fruit 
and  become  obvious  to  all.  That  is  also  the  time  for  hunting  mushrooms. 
Field=/z<7ra=belly.  A  belly  standing  means  angry  or  erect.  The  context 
suggests  former,  the  little  mushroom's  shape  the  latter  meaning.  I  found  a 
way  to  have  fun  with,  but  not  do  justice  to  the  original. 


ushi  no  ko  nifumaru  na  niwa  no  katatsumuri  tsuno  no  aru  tote  mi  o  na  tanomi  so 
cow/ox-child/ren-by  tread-not  garden-snail  horns  hav  because  body/self+acc  count-on  not! 

Please,  take  care,  garden  snail  not  to  be  tread  by  a  cow; 
Trust  not  in  your  horns  to  protect  you  somehow! 

Your  translator  was  unsure  of  what  exactly  was  not  to  be  trusted  in  this 
12c  kyoka.  Probably  you,  yourself,  the  snail;  As  all  consulted  favored  the 
above,  so  it  became.  Here,  for  your  reference,  are  the  rejects: 

Don  'tyou  let  the  oxen  squash  you,  garden  snail! 
And  ask  not  my  help  -  you  're  the  one  with  horns! 

Let  not  a  cow  be  the  one  to  squash  you,  garden  snail! 
Count  not  on  mercy  just  because  they  too  have  horns! 

Do  not  get  tread  by  an  ox  my  garden  snail!  Let  him  know 
You,  too,  have  horns  &  heaven  is  not  where  you  would  go! 

Monk  Jakuren  (1139-1202)  had  a  daughter,  a  poet  herself  known  only  as 
"the  daughter  of  Jakuren."  I  do  not  know  if  he  was  a  monk  when  he  had 
his  daughter  but  it  does  not  matter.  What  does  is  that  he  was  probably 
reintroduced  to  nursery  rhymes  as  an  adult  and  reacted  with  this 
sympathetic  poem.  Children  around  the  world  noticed  these  oddly  timid 
"horns."  The  English  Mother  Goose  has  bread  and  barley  corns  offered  to 
draw  out  them  out,  and  the  Chinese  Mother  Goose  offers  roasted  mutton 
for  the  same  (doubtless  it  rhymes  with  the  Chinese  word  for  horns),  but  no 
horns  are  in  the  oldest  recorded  snail  nursery  verse  in  Japanese,  found 
among  the  12c  Ryojinhisho's  "contemporary  ditties"  imayo,  lit.  now- 
styles),  that  supplies  the  violence  Jakuren  must  have  reacted  to.  Its  66 
syllabets  are  both  sensitively  and  precisely,  translated  by  Brownas  and 
Thwaite:  Dance,  dance,  little  snail!  /  If  you  do  not  dance,  / 1  shall  have 
you  kicked  and  crushed  /  By  a  pony,  by  a  calf.  /  If  you  dance  your  dance  / 
Well  and  prettily,  / 1  shall  let  you  go  and  play  /  In  a  garden  full  of flowers 
{The  Penguin  Book  of  Japanese  Verse).  If  I  could  have  translated  said  poem 
half  as  well  as  they  did,  believe  me,  I  would  have.  Only  the  "little"  is 
added,  which  is  fine,  for  child  -f-  was  more  a  term  of  endearment  than  a 
fact.  That  is  no  complaint,  for  it  is  all  the  more  reason  to  make  them 
ponies  and  calves.  But,  please  note  lest  I  mislead  you,  that  while  the  now- 
style  ditty  is  pretty  and  silly  to  be  sure,  without  those  horns  and  the  logic 
that  makes  you  scratch  your  head,  the  style  is  far  from  mad.  Even  if  it  had 
31  syllabets,  like  Jakuren' s,  it  would  not  be  a  kyoka.  For  that,  one  needs 
more  than  just  a  carrot  and  a  stick.  One  needs  something  a  bit  screwy,  like 
telling  a  mollusk  what  to  do  or  not  do  with  its  horns. 


55 


nyobo  ga  tsuno  dashi  toto  ga  bo  dashite  tatakedo  warenu  katatsumuri  kana  imyo  1783 
wife's  horns  put-out,  father's  stick  puts-out  hits-but  breaking-not-head/crown  'tis! 

Watching  a  domestic  quarrel,  ^£§V,»&;fr»TM~£  Sr^-T  <£&3 

Mad  as  a  devil  his  wife  shows  her  horns  &  though  he  should  flail 
away  with  his  cane,  her  crown  is  hard  as  a  petrified  snail! 


This  Tenmei  kyoka  differs  from  Jakuren's  mad  waka  by  lacking  a  valid  tie 
to  any  previous  poem.  The  obvious  resemblance  of  snail  feelers  to  horns 
plays  with  the  idiomatic  horns  of  an  angry  wife  (not  like  a  man  cuckolded 
-  "they"  are,  why  Japanese  brides  wear  hoods)  and  a  literal  pun-reading 
of  the  name  for  snail,  katatsumuri,  "hard-head"  used  as  the  snapper. 
Instead  of  facetious  anthropomorphism,  we  have  what  amounts  to 
nonsense,  the  sense  of  which  is  almost  entirely  dependent  upon  what 
cannot  be  translated  (the  meaningless  rhyme  flail  and  snail  does  not  do  it). 
Speaking  of  heads-as-crowns,  or  tsumuri,  the  next  poet's  full  mad  name  is 
Tsumuri  no  Hikaru:  either  "Crown's  shine"  or  "His  crown  shines." 


PH^T  tp-^mz.  Lfc5  —  og<D/Jvfite6<  5  #©5  kBfl*  t>iM 
#57  ame  furite  furidashitaru  hitotsume  no  kozo  wa  rokurokubi  no  urame  ka  hikaru  1785 
rain  falling  falling-popsout  one-eyed  boy-as-for  turnery/rubber-neck's  other-side?  hyakki  yakyo 


Rain  clouds  on  a  jelly  roll  a  one-eyed  boy  whose  tongue  feels  nice, 
Better  get  a  licking  than  wait  for  the  girl  on  the  far  side  of  the  dice! 


Japanese,  like  most  people  who  have  not  lost  their  cultural  memes  to 
religious  or  scientific  fundamentalism,  have  abundant  stories  of  super- 
natural creatures.  Uniquely,  perhaps,  the  relentless  drive  to  literally  season 
culture  eventually  made  ghost-story  telling,  like  fireworks,  a  summer 
activity,  good  for  a  chill!  By  the  18c,  large  numbers  of  people  gathered  on 
summer  nights  to  tell  scary  tales  at  mansions  or  temples  where,  ideally,  a 
hundred  candles  might  be  lit  and  snuffed  out  one  by  one  after  each  tale 
was  told.  Why  a  hundred,  I  do  not  know,  but  there  were  a  hundred-card 
sets  of  monsters  and  most  collections  of  ghost  tale  kyoka  featured  the 
same  number  (100  poems,  fewer  monsters;  or  the  vice- versa).  I  have  read 
only  60  of  the  poems  in  the  Hundred  Demon  (goblin/spook/etc.)  Night 
Madness  H jfe^SE  or  Hyakki  Yakyo  (punning  on  ^^yokyd,  a  side-show?)  as 
the  person  who  put  it  on-line  stopped  after  strange  things  happened  to 
him!  Originally  published  in  1785,  the  plates  got  burned  in  1806,  but 
jinxed  or  not,  popular  acclaim  got  it  reprinted  in  1820.  This  one-eyed 
(often  one-legged  to  boot)  boy,  studied  to  death  by  the  great  folklorist 


Yanagita  Kunio,  behaved  differently  in  different  parts  of  Japan,  but  was 
generally  held  to  have  a  tongue  that  dangled  down  from  his  perch  - 
preferably  an  old  pine  -  to  lick  the  face  of  the  unwary  passerby.  While 
sometimes  said  to  emit  a  pale  light,  suggestive  of  electric  activity,  the  rain 
here  comes  from  elsewhere:  ame  is  homophonous  with  candies  that  are 
licked  or  sucked  and  presumably  draw  the  boy,  though  the  verb  for  its 
falling,  furi,  suggests  shaking^ dropping  something,  as  done  for  dice 
(Should  he  be  "a  snake-eye  boy"?),  something  unrelated  to  him  until  we 
reach  the  other  supernatural  creature  with  a  stretching  body  part,  the  long- 
neck  woman  who  could  walk  up  behind  you  and  raise  her  head  up  and 
over  and  turning  face  you  at  the  end  of  a  neck  as  long  as  a  python.  Her 
name  starts  with  a  homophone  for  "six."  That  rokurokubi,  or  turnery-neck 
HHtli"  (#t^  ^MMMi  hii)  whose  pedigree  goes  way  back,  boasts  an 
extraordinary  idiom  for  something  lengthy  enough  to  be  called  ad 
nans  sum:  ^  $t~i~<£>Slt  rokurokubi  no  hedo,  or  "a  turnery-neck's  vomit." 
People  are  said  to  wait  "with  their  necks  outstretched"  in  Japan.  As  "wait" 
is  pronounced  matsu  as  is  the  pine  such  boys  tended  to  wait  in  .  .  .  I  go  too 
far;  but  the  above  explains  why  I  felt  driven  to  compensate  for  the  loss  of 
pun  and  background  with  the  explicit  tongue,  idiomatic  licking  and  pun- 
justified  wait. 

t)  h  6  <  6#^xl?^Ay  33 mmmm 

atama  naki  bakemono  nari  to  rokurokubi  mite  odorokan  onoga  karada  wo  ng  kyoka  - 
headless  changeling  is  turnery-neck  seeing-surprise-would  own  body+acc  -  hyakumonol9c 

A  headless  spook?  What  in  the  world  comes  after  me! 
Looking  back,  a  long-neck  is  terrified  to  see  .  .  .  herself. 

This  came  from  a  collection  with  hundreds  of  kyoka,  including  twenty  for 
this  rokuro-kubi,  alone,  according  to  Lafcadio  Hearn,  who  introduced  a 
handful  of  which  only  this  was  at  all  witty.  While  Hearn  was  well  aware 
that  his  Goblin  Poetry  was  the  pioneering  introduction  of  "a  class  of 
poetry  about  which  nothing  little  or  nothing  has  been  written  in  English," 
and  he  made  a  game  effort  to  explain  the  puns  in  the  kyoka  he  translated, 
his  basis  for  selection  was  less  the  poem's  wit  than  its  value  for  explaining 
his  themes/goblins,  generally  major  ones,  chosen  for  their  high  cultural 
significance  in  Japan  and  China.  Rokuro-Kubi,  he  writes,  "is  either  (i)  a 
person  whose  neck  lengthens  prodigiously  during  sleep,  so  that  the  head 
can  wander  about  in  all  directions,  seeking  what  it  may  devour,  or  (2)  a 
person  able  to  detach  his  or  her  head  completely  from  the  body,  and  to 
rejoin  it  to  the  neck  afterwards."  (A  footnote  adds  "In  Chinese  mythology 
the  being  whose  neck  is  so  constructed  as  to  allow  of  the  head  being 
completely  detached  belongs  to  a  special  class;  but  in  Japanese  folk-tale 
this  distinction  is  not  always  maintained.")  His  translation  of  the  above 


57 


poem,  "Will  not  the  Rokuro-Kubi,  viewing  with  astonishment  her  own 
body  (left  behind)  cry  out,  'Oh,  what  a  headless  goblin  have  you 
become!'"  suggests  he  put  it  into  the  second  category,  but  I  think 
otherwise,  in  part,  because  I  have  yet  to  find  a  separate  head  called  a 
rokurokubi  (the  poem  below  may  be  separate  but  it  is  not  called  a  rokurokubi)  and 
in  part  because  it  is  more  interesting  to  imagine  her  scare  coming  from  the 
perspective  making  her  body  seem  headless.  Hearn,  explaining  why 
"whirling  neck"  and  "rotating-neck"  are  unsatisfactory  translations,  notes 
this  creature's  neck  "revolves,  and  lengthens  or  retracts  according  to  the 
direction  of  the  revolution."  Precisely!  Such  a  spiral  would  make  the  neck 
connecting  her  body  less  obvious  to  her. 

kubi  bakari  idasu  onna  no  kami  no  ke  ni  yoreba  tsumetaki  kisa  no  sashigushi  yomo  no  akara 
head  only  stickout  woman's  headhair-to  approach-if  cold  ivory's  hairpin/shish-kebob  ^££#4 

A  head  without  shoulders  to  break  her  hair  looks  oddly  demure 
But  you  11  miss  her  limbs  up-close  &  her  ivory  pin 's  a  skewer! 


Just  a  head  is  there,  a  white  neck  with  long  hair.  Beware! 
She  nears,  you  feel  a  chill .  .  .  her  ivory  pin  could  kill. 

Kami  suffices  for  head-hair,  but  young  Ota,  Yomo  no  Akara,  stretches  it 
into  kaminoke,  perhaps  for  the  individual  hair  character  ^  to  aim  at  the 
elephant  H  in  ivory  and  allude  to  a  saying:  "One  woman  's  hair  can  pull 
an  elephant,  "  having  little  to  do  with  the  plot.  Regardless,  Akara' s  poem 
is  not  as  good  as  the  previous  one,  whose  author  Hearn  does  not  give. 

yuku  hito  o  shine  to  susumuru  furu-enoki  kore  ya  meidd  no  ichirizuka  kamo  sanwa  1785 
going  people+acc  "die!"  recommend  old  hackberry  this+emph.  afterworld's  mile-marker/s 

£E    fa  M 

The  old  hackberries  whispering  "Die!  Die! "  to  the  passerby 
Do  they,  like  gate-pines,  mark  our  final  route  and  why? 


Are  old Enoki  that  whisper  we  should  'Die! '  really  Dutch? 
Why  else  would  they  want  us  in  the  nether  lands  that  much! 

Were  old  Enoki  in  out-of-the-way  places  really  so  spooky  they  could  be 
made  to  say  what  Issa  more  understandably  puts  in  the  mouth  of  a  raven 
(he  has  them  say  "eat-shit!  from  kurae!  imperative  for  eat  and  felt  that  like  a 
curse)?  Or,  is  this  specter  simply  an  artificial  fusion  of  Ikkyu's  famous 
mad  poem  calling  the  New  Year  gate-pines  (kadomatsu)  road-marks  to  the 


Nether  world  with  enoki,  adopted  by  the  Shogunate  for  mile-markers  on 
the  highways  of  Japan?  Since,  English  cannot  evoke  Ikkyu's  poem,  my 
second,  mad  reading  takes  one  of  our  old  names  for  the  Other  World 
neither  Paradise,  Hell,  nor  Purgatory.  By  "nether  lands"  I  mean  lower 
regions  (North/nether  once  was  "down"  on  our  maps),  of  course.  Stylewise, 
however,  my  mad  reading  feels  closer  to  this  'Night  Madness'  kyoka  than 
the  more  explanatory  respectable  one. 

me  no  mae  nifutatsu  no  sugata  arawasu  wa  mizu  ni  mo  tsukinokage  no  wazurai  i&£#5 
eye/s  -before  two-forms  appear-as-4  water-in  too  moon's  affliction  meshimori  1785 

Doppelgangers 

Before  your  I's,  behold,  a  W  appears,  &  loh! 
In  the  dark  water,  the  moon,  too,  is  not  alone. 

Mirror  before,  mirror  behind,  the  nape  in  back,  she  cannot  find: 
Do  her  mirrors  see  doppel,  too?  Or,  are  both  faces  in  her  mind! 

tamakushige  futatsu  no  sugata  misenuru  wa  awase-kagami  no  kage  no  wazurai  ng  hyakumono 

gem/pretty-comb(box)  two  forms  show-as4  combined  mirrors'  reflection  afflicted  19c 
L.H.:  If,  when  seated  before  her  toilet-stand,  she  sees  two  faces  reflected  in  her  mirror-  that 
might  be  caused  by  the  mirror  doubling  itself  under  the  influence  of  the  Shadow-Sickness. 

Lafcadio  Hearn's  reading  of  the  second  is  followed  by  an  apology  for  the 
"multiplicity  of  suggestion  impossible  to  render  in  translation. "  He 
explains  that  while  making  her  toilet,  the  Japanese  woman  uses  two 
mirrors  (awase-kagami)",  one  a  hand-mirror  to  show  the  back  of  her 
coiffure  -  I  would  add  the  carefully  outlined  nape  of  the  neck  -  upon  the 
larger  stationary  mirror.  Suffering  from  rikonbyo,  lit.  "separated-soul 
disease,"  the  woman  sees  something  else.  Hearn  gives  a  dozen  poems 
showing  the  progress  of  this  malady  marked  by  the  soul's  leaving  the  body 
to  animate  a  phantom  of  a  women  hurt  in  love,  as  it  is  a  vital  concept  for 
understanding  Japanese  literature.  He  also  notes  "a  suggestion  of  ghostly 
sympathy  said  to  exist  between  a  mirror  and  the  soul  of  its  possessor."  I 
would  add  that  both  kage  {reflection  or  countenance  rather  than  "shadow"  in 
mod.  English)  and  wazurai  (a  dread  disease)  are  associated  with  the  moon, 
the  latter  with  an  eclipse. 

karakasa  no  abarabone  nomi  nokorikeri  arashishi  sui  no  yoru  no  arashi  ya  hikaru 
Chinese  umbrella's  ribs  only  remain!/:  raw-meat  sucking  night's  storm!  yakkyo  1785 

Chinese  umbrellas  their  bare  ribs  drying  in  the  fetid  air, 
Left  by  a  flesh-sucking  whirl,  a  night  gale  .  .  .  a  girl! 


This  terrifying  Night  Madness  changeling  is  clearly  no  goblin  but  a  ghoul. 
The  shishi-sui,  or  meat-sucker,  said  to  appear  in  the  mountains=wild  in  the 
form  of  a  laughing  seventeen  or  eighteen  year-old  girl,  might  ask  for  a 
light,  then,  if  you  let  your  guard  down,  bite  into  you  and  hold  on  until  she 
had  sucked  up  all  of  your  flesh.  Think  of  that  umbrella  as  the  bones  of  the 
victim  of  a  one-girl  piranha  attack  on  land. 

andon  no  abura-name  to  iu  bakemono  no  hatto  kietaru  momongawarake  meshimori 


lanterns'  oil-licker  called  changeling's  poof  vanished  flyingsquirrels  [p]  #21 

Oil-lickers  so  named  because  they  have  that  trick,  vanish  quick 
As  the  boogie-man  or  flames  sucked  from  a  lamp  wick. 

The  oil-lickers  lick  your  lamp,  then,  oil  gone,  they  vanish,  too. 
Quick  as  flying  squirrels,  poof!  Like  flames  on  a  dry  wick  do. 

The  abura-name,  ffifrtf)  oil  or  grease-licker,  is  probably  common  to  all 
lamp-users  for  mice  alone  can  not  explain  the  varying  oil  consumption. 
Meshimori 's  wit  lies  in  dovetailing  a  boogieman  who  pretended  to  swoop 
in  to  attack  small  children  while  yelling  momonga,  or  "flying-squirrel!" 
with  a  kawarake,  an  unglazed  vessel  sometimes  used  to  hold  oil. 


me  wa  kagami  kuchi  wa  tarai  no  hodo  ni  aku  gama  mo  kesho  no  mono  to  koso  shire 
eyes-as-for  mirrors  mouth-as-for  tub-amount  open  toad  too  changelng/make-up  thing  know! 


The  common  word  for  any  sort  of  ghost  or  changeling  is  bakemono  ffcftfe, 
but  here  the  toad  is  called  a  kesho  it^..  That  is  for  the  homophonic  make- 
up fk$£  (literally  change-powder)  or  toiletry.  Hearn's  explanatory  trans- 
lation puts  the  pun  into  a  parenthesis:  "The  eye  of  it,  widely  open,  like  a 
(round)  mirror;  the  mouth  of  it  opening  like  a  wash-basin  —  by  these 
things  you  may  know  that  the  Toad  is  a  goblin-thing  (or,  that  the  Toad  is  a 
toilet  article). "  I  was  going  to  go  the  parallel  translation  route  -  one  for 
each  meaning,  but  came  up  with  a  more  creative  alternative  which  I  do  not 
know  how  to  describe.  But  let  me  add  that  though  Japanese  houses  had 
few  furnishings  by  cluttered  Occidental  standards,  the  furniture,  utensils 
and  other  objects  had  a  much  busier  life  of  the  spirit  for  ghost  stories 
where  they  came  to  life  were  well  known.  In  the  most  famous  one,  old 
utensils  thrown  out  in  winter  cleaning  took  blood-thirsty  revenge  on 


Looking-glass  eyes,  &  a  mouth  that  opens  like  a  basin, 
A  toad's  a  goblin  you  can  look  and  wash  your  face  in! 


humans!  What  better  story  to  teach  children  not  only  the  golden  rule  but 
to  be  nice  to  things. 


ume  ga  ko  o  sakura  no  hana  ni  niowasete  yanagi  no  eda  ni  sakasete  mogana  tokimune 
plum's  scent+acc  cherry-blossom-on  smell-letting  willow-limb-on  bloom-would  wish! 


Ryokan's  poem  wishing  for  his  shadow  to  be  able  to  sit  next  to  him  is  the 
most  creative  "wish  poem"  -  a  word  just  coined  -  your  translator  knows. 
The  above  is  what  might  be  called  a  common-place  wish.  We  all  compile 
good  qualities  when  we  think  (or  thought)  of  ideal  mates  or  products  .  .  . 
Your  translator  is  not  a  good  compiler  as  he  lost  the  source,  but  it  would 
seem  a  waka. 


P  How  to  define  fantasy?  In  the  740-page  Monster,  I  give  a  chapter  to  the 
supposed  Iwabune  or  Stone  Ships  found  up  sacred  mountains.  The  poems  were 
waka,  not  kyoka.  If  tied  into  science-fiction  fantasies  about  overcoming  gravity, 
we  have  fantasy  here,  but  it  seems  improper  (?)  to  treat  what  is  more  a  myth  or 
national/religious  legend  in  that  way.  So  it  is  not  in  this  chapter. 

P  Plum  flowers  ume  no  hana.  Your  translator  follows  convention,  but  some 
botany-lovers  prefer  to  make  it  a  "flowering  apricot." 

P  Issa's  wriggling  ominaeshi  (whore/maiden)  flower  poem: 


May  the  scent  of  plum  in  cherry  blossom  beauty  bloom 
upon  the  young  green  limbs  of  the  willow  by  my  room! 


ominaeshi  motto  kunereyo  hoshi-mukai 
patrinia  scabiosaefolia  more  squirml/wiggle!  star-tryst 


Whore  flowers, 
let  me  see  you  bump  &  grind! 
The  stars  won 't  mind. 


Maiden  Flowers 
Squirm  more,  you  should  be  shy 
The  stars  in  the  sky  .  .  . 


Maiden  flowers 
Squirm  more!  Up  in  the  sky 
The  Stars  meet. 


l)My  old  reading  (ixfeR  can  also  mean  whore).  2)  New,  shy  reading  &  3)  free. 


Mad  Parody  -  sampling  what  some  call  typical  kyoka. 


itsuwari  no  naki  yo  narikeri  kaminazuki  taga  makoto  yori  shigure  someken  teika  d.  1241 
falsehood's  not  world  become-has!  gods-not-month  whose  sincerity-from  shigure  started? 


This  thirteenth-century  waka  by  Fujiwara  Teika  works  poorly  in  English 
not  so  much  because  of  the  lack  of  equivalent  vocabulary  for  rain  and 
months  as  because  of  a  difference  in  rhetoric.  In  English  poetry,  the  names 
or  reputed  properties  of  things  are  rarely  contrasted  with  their  reality.  In 
Japanese  traditional  poetry,  it  is  very  common.  Teika' s  "who,"  unlike  the 
"it"  in  Alan  Watt's  "What  is  this  it  that  rains?"  has  significance;  but  what? 
In  the  Tales  of  Genji,  this  meandering  shower  of  late-fall  or  cold  drizzle 
marking  the  start  of  winter  usually  written  with  characters  meaning 
time+rain,  is  dead  Aoi's  soul.  More  commonly,  it  was  a  projection  of  a 
live  woman  wishing  rain  to  stay  a  lover.  There  may  be  a  romantic  allusion 
here,  a  response  to  someone's  doubt  after  Kokinshu  poem  #146,  which 
discounts  a  lover's  words  in  a  time  when  betrayal  was  rift.  Since  Teika 
composed  the  song  at  his  Time-rain  Arbor  (Shigure-tei  home,  the 

who/se  may  be  Teika  himself,  and  his  concern  solely  for  the  reputation  of 
the  shigure,  though  one  cannot  say  whether  that  affection  is  aesthetic  or 
ascetic,  i.e.  for  rain  that  dyes  leaves  and  hearts  or,  being  cold,  provides 
desired  spiritual  trial.  If  the  latter  element  is  paramount,  the  "who/se" 
might  be  the  Law/Buddha,  in  which  case,  the  Gods-gone  Month  comes  to 
mean  more  than  just  the  usual  time  for  the  shigure.  This  may  be  a  famous 
poem,  but  no  one  seems  to  know  exactly  what  it  means.  Luckily,  that  did 
not  discourage  parody,  much  of  which  is  easy  to  read  and  entertaining. 

itsuwari  no  aruyo  narikeri  kaminazuki  binbogami  wa  mi  o  mo  hanarenu  yuchoro  16c 
falsehoods  are  world  is+emph  gods-gone-world  poverty-gods-as-for  me/body+acc  leave-not 

No,  it  is  indeed  a  world  of  falsehood,  this  Gods-gone  Month 
The  God  of  Poverty  just  will  not  let  me  be! 

Yuchoro  made  at  least  a  dozen  kyoka  about  the  Poverty  God,  firmly 
embedding  the  theme  in  kyoka  tradition.  He  observed  in  a  preface  that  the 
offerings  at  his  temple  were  down  in  early  winter  when  the  Gods  were 
supposed  to  be  caucusing  in  Izumo.  If  Poverty,  or  the  poverty  gods,  stay 


Today,  for  once, 
this  world  is  not  false. 
As  the  gods  leave, 

Whose  faith  brings  us 
the  cold  rain  right  on  time? 


Gods-gone  Month. 
And  falsehood,  too,  has  fled 
the  world  for  good  - 

Who  is  so  true  that  cold 
time-rain  should  start  on  cue? 


behind,  it  proves  Gods-gone-month  is  not  what  it  should  be.  "No,  Teika," 
his  poem  retorts,  "the  shigure  may  have  fallen  right  on  time  for  you,  but 
my  offertory  says  that  Kokinshu  poem  #146  is  right,  the  world  is  out  of 
kilter!"  With  the  Shinto  gods  away  from  the  shrines,  Buddhist  temples 
usually  did  well  at  this  time.  Teiryu  (c.1730)  put  it  like  this:  Among  men 
there  are  no  demons  at  all,  in  God-gone  month,  /  Coins  fly  by  crocodile 
jaws  faster  than  the  time-rain  falls!"  (Afc&fcfifc  #  tft&  *)  if  <9  #&U3 
B^fWi  <£  *9  ifJ^<5  fiifcli  JEffc^i-;^/^.?*  hito  no  oni  wa  naki  yo  narikeri 
kaminazuki  shigure  yori  nao  furu  wa  chirizeni.  itSi  Your  translator  added 
the  crocodile  mouth,  the  gong  struck  close  to  the  offertory  at  a  Buddhist 
temple,  for  the  drama.)  Or,  the  same  expressed  in  a  nativist  vein, 

izumoji  e  atsumari-tamau  rusu  nareba  waga  shinkoku  ni  hotoke  ari  tsuki  taisan?  1740 
izumo  road-to  gathering-do(respect.)  absent-be-when  our-godsland-in  bddha-is-mnth 

They  leave  for  their  caucus  in  Izumo,  we  merrily  say  'Adieu! ' 
In  our  land  of  all  the  Gods,  this  is  Buddha  's-here-month,  too. 

When  they  leave  us  to  caucus  in  Izumo,  we  are  still  blest: 
This  month  in  Gods '  Country,  the  Buddha  is  manifest. 

But  to  return  to  the  varied  play  upon  Teika' s  waka,  here  is  an  exchange 
between  Ritsukatei  Bokutan  and  Teiryu,  his  teacher  whom  he  followed  as 
the  leading  kyoka  master  of  the  mid- 18c.  The  meaning  of  the  first  poem  is 
unclear  but  the  sympathetic  reply  shows  why  Teiryu  was  loved  by  all: 

lEitwiitv^LWM^  h%  vtifm^mi-^zv  igfsr^*3ffi  1735 

shojiki  no  atama  mo  itashi  kaminazuki  amari  shigure  no  makoto  sugiru  de  bokutan 
honest  head  even  hurts  gods-out-month  too-much  shigure's  sincere-excess-from 

Our  most  honest  heads  are  hurting  this  gods-gone  month, 
With  the  time-rains  too  earnestly  living  up  to  their  name! 


Gods-gone  month,  I'd  say  these  time-rains  were  too  earnest. 
Would  they  might  prove  to  be  just  a  little  bit  more  false! 

kaminazuki  amari  shigure  wa  makoto  sugita  chito  itsuwarite  hiyori  naregashi  teiryu 
gods-not-month  too-much  time-rain-as-4  sincere-overly,  slightly  deceiving  clear-day  flow-want 

Gods  were  proverbially  held  to  reside  in  honest  heads  IE[E(Z)IIf0c#fi3  <5; 
but  why  "hurt/ache"?  Does  cold  rain  bring  headaches?  Is  young  Bokutan 
simply  saying,  my,  we  have  had  a  wet  start  to  the  winter;  or  is  he  doing  a 
stint  of  begging  at  a  temple  and  finds  it  tough  going?  Who  knows! 


kamigami  no  msu  o  azukaru  tsuki  nareba  baka-shojiki  ni  shigure  furu  nari  shokusanjin  d.  1 823 
gods'  absence+acc  keeping  month  is/become-when  fool-honestly/honest-fool-on  time-rain  falls  is 


This  parody  of  Teika's  waka  by  Tenmei  kyoka-master  Shokusanjin 
probably  ranks  among  the  ten  most  commonly  encountered  kyoka.  The 
honest  head  in  Bokutan's  poem  has  hyperbolized  into  a  "foolishly-honest" 
baka  shojiki  one.  The  first  reading  addresses  the  character  of  the  rain 
called  shigure,  kidding  it  and  indirectly  poking  fun  at  Teika's  poem.  The 
second,  which  takes  foolishly  honest  as  such  a  person  -  the  Japanese  is 
ambiguous  that  way  -  is  absurd,  but  grammatically  equally  viable.  Even 
a  theoretical  physicist  could  not  come  up  with  a  unified  translation  of  this 
poem.  But  one  can  always  try  to  create  new  variants  that  stand-alone.  Eg.: 


Not  that  any  of  this  really  solves  the  poem.  When  you  try  to  completely 
grasp  Shokusanjin's  parody,  you  find  it,  like  Teika's  original,  is  ineffable. 
Whether  this  is  better  or  worse  than  Yuchoro's  simple  parody  relating  the 
paradox  of  poverty  at  a  time  Poverty  was  supposed  to  be  out,  is  a  matter  of 
taste.  Speaking  of  which,  here  is  a  shigure  parody  different  from  both: 


oni  naranu  kami  no  on  rusu  wa  shigure  shite  sentaku  subeki  hiyori  dani  nashi  gyoshi? 
demon/s  is/are-not  gods'  hon.+absence-as-4  time-rain  doing,  laundry  do-ought  clearday  +emph.  not! 

When  the  devil 's  out ...  -  but  today,  it  is  the  gods  who  are  away; 
And,  damn  if  the  time-rain  leaves  one  clear  day  for  us  to  play! 

The  gods  and  not  the  demons  are  out  to  play,  but  dirty  laundry 
needs  at  least  one  sunny  day  ...  -  all  we  get  is  shi-gu-re! 

Parody,  that  is,  if  playing  with  a  proverb  -  "(life's)  Laundry  is  washed 
when  the  demon/devil  (=boss?  spouse?)  is  out"  -  rather  than  another 
poem  can  be  so  called.  There  may  well  be  as  many  kyoka  playing  with 
proverbs,  short  Chinese  phrases,  popular  etymologies  and  other  old  saws 
of  one  type  or  another  as  those  playing  with  older  poems. 


When  that  month 
comes  and  our  gods  leave, 
the  time-rain  falls; 

Right  on  schedule,  even 
nature  honest  to  a  fault! 


This  is  the  month 
our  kami  stay  away  but  still 
a  cold  rain  falls 

Upon  the  godless  heads 
of  all  men  honest  to  a  fault 


Gods  gone,  a  cold  rain  falls  on  all  honest  crowns  - 
Emptied  of  the  gods,  how  loudly  each  drop  sounds! 


64 


hachisu-ha  no  nigori  ni  shimanu  kokoro  mote  nanika  wa  tsuyu  no  tama  to  azamuku 
lotus  leaf/s'  muddiness-in  stain-not  heart  having  what/why-so  dew's  gem  as  defraud/pretend 


(Mad  Poem,  or  Not?) 

Lotus  risen  up  Lotus  leaves, 

from  mud,  so  pure  of  heart  pure  of  soul,  unstained 

how  dare  you!  by  the  mud  below 

Or,  rather,  why  do  you  How  is  it,  even  you  could 

make  jewels,  with  art?  pass  your  dew  for  pearls? 


This  is  a  famous  Kokinshu  waka  by  the  witty  Archbishop  Henjo  (816-90). 
The  verb  azamuku,  suggesting  dew  deliberately  misrepresents  itself,  is 
outrageous.  Were  the  poem  haikai,  it  would  be  called  a  back-handed 
celebration  of  the  beauty  of  dew,  playing  on  the  conceit  of  dew-drops  as 
tama=gem/jewel/ball/pearl.  But  Henjo,  writing  before  seasonal  haikai, 
plays  on  the  conceit  itself,  after  setting  it  up  with  words  straight  from  the 
Lotus  Sutra  ?!feij|$l<7)?litt}pp,  rather  than  celebrating  the  beauty  per  se. 
Henjo's  waka,  as  clear  as  Teika's  shigure  is  obscure,  also  bore  numerous 
progeny.  Objectively  classified,  it  could,  itself,  be  called  a  conceptual 
kyoka.  Kyoka  are  often  parodied,  but  not  so  much  as  famous  waka  are,  so, 
for  parody's  sake,  a  proper  waka  identification  is  a  godsend. 

meshi  wa  mina  kuitsukushitaru  hachisuha  ni  nokoreru  tsubu  ya  tsuyu  to  azamuku  hisago  no  karazake 
meal-as-for  all  eat-exhausted  lotus-leaves-on  remaining  grains:   dew-as  deceive/resemble  1785 


The  grains  of  rice  After  a  good  meal 

stuck  to  the  lotus  leaf  some  grains  of  rice  stay 

after  you 've  eaten  on  your  lotus  leaf 

I  guess  they  're  trying  Trying  to  make  you  think 

to  pass  for  dew  drops.  they  are  nothing  but  dew. 


This  Tenmei  era  kyoka  titled  "Lotus-rice/lunch,"  Hasuhan,  by  Hisago  no 
Karazake  has  no  wordplay  in  it.  None.  Hamada,  the  Iwanami  annotator, 
unkindly  claims,  "it  is  just  a  poem  that  has  rice  grains  stand  for  dew 
drops.  "  He  fails  to  note  that  makes  the  poem  not  only  a  parody  of  Henjo's 
waka  but  an  allusive  envoi  for  a  much  older  poem,  Manyoshu  #3837,  a 
prosaic  impromptu  response  to  a  request  for  a  'lotus  leaf  poem  because 
the  party  was  eating  off  them.  Despite  rainless  weather,  the  preface  notes, 
there  was  "water  gathered  on  the  lotus  leaves  resembling  (rain) 
drops=tama=jewels.'"  The  poem,  picking  up  on  the  Manyoshu  poem, 
throws  a  dead-pan  monkey  wrench  into  centuries  of  Henjo's  waka- 
inspired  lotushood+dew-drop  parodies  which  are,  on  the  whole,  less 


65 


interesting  than  the  original.  Here  are  some  noteworthy  exceptions: 

migoto  nite  te  ni  wa  torarezu  shiratsuyu  no  kieyasuki  koso  tama  ni  kizu  nare  mitoku  1649 
beautiful-as  hand-in-as-for  taking/holding-cannot  white-dew's  vanish-easilying  esp.  gem-on  flaw  is 

So  beautiful  I  would  pick  them  up,  these  dewy  pearls! 
'Tis  a  flaw  in  perfection  to  break  as  easily  as  they  do. 


So  damn  beautiful,  yet  I  cannot  pick  up  the  luminous  dew, 
'Tis  said  perfection  has  a  flaw:  you  break,  it 's  true. 

Beautiful,  yet  the  luminous  dew  in  hand  I  cannot  take. 
'Tis  said  all  perfection  comes  with  a  flaw:  you  break! 

Is  this  poem  by  Mitoku,  probably  the  most  highly  respected  seventeenth 
century  kyoka  poet  today,  too  simple  to  be  good,  or  is  it  a  brilliant  idea 
only  easy  in  retrospect?  As  the  fragility  and  short-life  of  dew  was 
precisely  what  made  it  a  precious  metaphor,  there  is  irony  in  that 
becoming  its  fault,  which  reveals  the  contradictory  nature  of  that  metaphor 
and  the  conceit  of  dew  as  a  gem.  That  is  surely  worth  something. 

kaze  koete  chiruzo  suzushiki  hachisuha  ni  nani  ka  wa  tsuyu  o  tama  to  nomi  mimu 
wind  crossing  scatter+emph.  cool  lotus  leaf-by/in  what-as-for  dew+acc.  gem  as  only  see 

Winds  pass  over  How  cool  it  is 

and  off  they  go:  that's  cool.  when  they  skate  about 

So  what  makes  us  with  the  wind! 

want  to  see  the  dew  drops  What  in  the  lotus  pad  makes 

on  lotus  pads  as  jewels?  us  see  dew  drops  as  gems? 

This  poem  by  the  famed  scholar  of  ancient  Japanese  and  sometimes  rabid 
nativist  Motoori  Norinaga  (1730-1801)  is  not  one  of  his  better  known 
poems  but  may  be  the  best  one  he  ever  wrote  and  one  of  the  best  meta- 
waka  (one  reflecting  upon  waka  or  waka  terms)  ever  written  by  anyone.  If 
literary  critics  liked  ideas,  it  would  be  famous.  Like  Teika's  shigure  waka, 
it  is  posed  as  a  question  and  hard  to  grasp.  Does  Norinaga  imply  it  is  1) 
refreshing  that  dew  scatters  rather  than  staying  as  a  real  gem/pearl  would? 
2)  literally  cool  watching  them  tumble  about  (lotus  dew  is  a  summer 
phenomenon)  on  those  pads?  Norinaga  would  doubtless  discourage  such 
analysis  and  claim  the  question  (What  is  there  in  a  lotus  pad,  so  cool  when 
wind  scatters  the  dew  drops,  to  make  us  see  them  only  as  jewels?)  says  it 
all.  The  inclusion  of  a  chunk  of  Henjo's  poem  and  that  extraordinarily 
rational  question  -  all  fresh  questions  are,  to  most  people,  who  never  ask 


them,  mad  -  makes  Norinaga's  poem  a  kyoka  of  sorts.  Hisago  no 
Karazake's  rice  grains  likewise  question  the  metaphor,  but  do  so  in  an 
indirect,  facetiously  naive  manner  by  reversing  the  metaphor  so  instead  of 
the  dew  pretending  to  be  something  substantial,  something  substantial 
pretends  to  be  dew.  Its  madness,  then,  lay  not  in  having  rice  grains  stand 
for  dew-drops  (maggots  could  do  that  better),  but  in  the  discovery  that 
metaphor  itself  is  double-edged  sword.  And  no  one  grasped  that  sword 
like  the  haikai-master  Issa,  who,  judging  from  his  scores  of  thoughtful 
haiku  on  the  subject,  was  Japan's  leading  philosopher  of  dew. 

shiratsuya  no  teren  itsuwari  nakiyo  kana  issa 
white-dew's  sleight-of-hand  deception  not  world! 

White  dew  drops,  this  much  I  understand  - 
No  fraud  is  involved  in  your  sleight  of  hand 


The  magic  of  pearly  dew  drops  is  for  real. 


This  dew  works  magic  that  we  might  realize 
the  real  world  >  lies  <  before  our  eyes! 

We  are  straying  off  the  path  of  parody,  but  let  us  follow  Issa's  conceptual 
dew  a  while  longer.  Here  is  one  of  his  kyoka: 

shiratsuyu  ni  aji  no  naki  koso  ureshikere  amakuba  hito  no  atsumariyasen  issa  1 823 
white-dew-in  flavor/taste's  not  +emph.  delighted-be  sweet-if  peoples'  gather-not-do? 

The  Treasure  Hunt 

We  should  be  grateful  that  dew  drops  have  no  taste; 
For  if  they  did  not  a  one  would  long  remain  in  place! 

Democratic  Beauty 

That  dew  drops  are  not  sweet  is  something  to  be  thankful  for: 
No  one  will  rob  or,  taxing,  steal  their  eye  treat  from  the  poor! 

Pardon  the  titles,  not  in  the  original.  The  first  reading  recalls  Zhuang-zhi's 
good-for-nothing  and  therefore  long-lived  tree.  The  second,  the  poverty  of 
the  poet.  Unless  there  is  a  just-so-story  or  proverb  touching  upon  dew's 
lack  of  flavor,  applying  that  principle  to  dew  took  some  doing.  But,  Issa 
only  writes  that  people  would  gather  them.  Your  translator  over  does  it. 


aji  araba  kenka  no  tane  zo  tsuyu  no  tama  issa 
flavor  have-if  quarrels'  seed/s  +emph.:  dew  drops 


if  they  had  taste 
they  would  cause  quarrels 
pretty  dew  drops 


the  dew  drops 
would  surely  brew  fights  if 
they  tasted  good 


sure  as  hell 
if  dew  tasted  good,  we 'd 
fight  over  it 


If  sweet,  the  dew 
would  be  'dew  of  mine ' 
&  'dew  of  thine. ' 


if  sweet,  surely 
we 'd  see  'my  dew  'for  me 
your  dew  for  thee 


sweet-if  sure-enough  my  dew  people/other's  dew 
amakaraba  sazo  oraga  tsuyu  hito  no  tsuyu 


Having  just  seen  Issa's  kyoka  version  of  the  same,  it  is  easy  to  see  that 
these  kyoku  -  acceptable  haiku  as  dew  is  a  seasonal  subject  and,  as  pointed 
out  already,  an  indirect  way  of  praising  the  beauty  of  the  drops  -  are, 
qualitatively  speaking,  similar  to  kyoka.  There  was  no  unsurpassable  wall 
between  the  waka  romantics,  post-Basho  haikai  nature-lovers  and  kyoka 
conceptual  poets  and  word(play)smiths. 


kokoronaki  mi  ni  mo  aware  wa  shirarekeri  shigi  tatsu  sawa  no  aki  no  yugure  saigyo  d.  1 1 90 
heart-not  body/self-to  even  sadness/beauty-as-for  known-is+emph  snipe/s  leave  marsh's  fall's  dusk 


clam  in  beak  pushing-penetrate-would  and  stuck  snipe  takes-off-cannot  fall-dusk  yado  no  meshimori 

hamagnri  ni  hashi  oshi-tsuka  to  hasamarete  shigi  tachikaneru  aki  no  yugure  $iW\^tMM  1 787 


On  the  left  the  best-known  waka  by  Saigyo,  probably  Japan's  most 
beloved  waka  poet.  On  the  right,  the  second-best-known  poem  by  Tenmei 
kyoka  master  and  national-studies  scholar  Yado  no  Meshimori,  whose 
best-known  poem  (why  bad  poets  are  preferable  to  good)  we  have  already 


Even  a  monk 
no  longer  of  the  world 
can  be  moved 

When  snipe  start  at  dusk 
from  the  autumn  marsh 


The  snipe  cannot  fly  off 
at  dusk  this  fall 


when  he  tried  to  force 
a  cherry  stone 


Caught  by  his  bill 


seen.  The  hamaguri  that  shrank  into  a  "clam"  in  translation  was  having  a 
hard  time  filling  up  a  line  until  the  dictionary  supplied  just  the  sort  of  word 
a  mad  poem  wants,  cherry-stone.  Yet,  were  the  poem  not  written  in 
standard  language,  the  translator  might  have  done  this: 


Japanese  legend  has  adulterous  lovers  locked  like  dogs  for  their  sin 
(serious  because  the  spouse  was  on  a  pilgrimage).  Meshimori  obviously 
plays  with  that  -  an  erotic  print  by  Kitagawa  Utamaro  has  this  very  kyoka 
on  the  fan  held  by  one  of  two  lovers  in  congress  on  the  second  floor  of  a 
tea-house  -  while  innocently  borrowing  from  a  moral  tale  featuring  a 
hungry  snipe  and  (hungry?)  clam  taken  by  a  fisherman,  locked  in  battle 
(#I^cq^iJ  If^g^J  )  and,  with  that  "fall  evening"  binds  his  poem  to 
Saigyo's  well-known  waka  evoking  a  very  different  sort  of  melancholy.  If 
the  latter  is  delicate,  it  asks  for  just  such  a  slapstick  response.  One  can 
find  nothing  to  fault  in  such  a  parody.  Still,  it  is  fair  to  ask  if  it  moves  us  as 
much  as  a  far  less  well-known  response  to  Saigyo's  waka  by  young  Issa. 


Issa  had  a  country  boy's  feeling  about  the  natural  world  and  expressed 
doubts  about  urban  lyricism  (snow,  in  particular,  he  called  "bad  stuff 
warui  mono).  Did  Issa  feel  the  snipe,  an  embodiment  of  Saigyo's 
melancholy  soul,  gazing  deep  into  his,  wondering  if  he  felt  that  aware? 
There  is  an  interesting  paradox  here.  The  mere  fact  Issa  thinks  such 
thoughts  proves  he  is  moved,  does  it  not?  Or,  are  we  over-reading  a  simple 
observational  haiku?  Aside  from  making  it  into  Issa's  top  2000-&W 
anthology  (%ibM  %s'$.3tW-),  where  it  is  unannotated,  this  ku  has  received 
little  or  no  attention. 


Thanks  to  his  bill, 
that  snipe  can  not  bolt 
this  autumn  night. 


The  quahog  he 'd  jimmy 
is  holding  him  still. 


How  keenly 
the  snipe  looks  at  me; 
and  it  is  dusk. 


this  evening 
when  the  snipes  intently 
stare  at  me 


It's  evening. 
Is  the  snipe  drawing 
a  bead  on  me? 


ariake  no  tsurenaku  mo  mieshi  wakare  yori  akatsuki  bakari  ukimono  wa  nashi  mibu-no 
matin-moon  wretched+emph  looked  parting-from  dawn-as  blue  thing-as4  not  -tadamine 

Since  that  parting  when  in  misery  we  saw  the  matin  moon, 
Dawn,  of  all  things  in  the  world,  always  brings  me  gloom! 

Souring  on  dawn  itself  because  of  one  sad  parting  is  mad  to  begin  with,  is 
it  not?  Here,  for  once,  Rodd  and  Henkenius'  reading  of  this  Kokinshu 
(c905)  poem  #625  -  "since  that  parting  when  / 1  saw  the  cold  indifferent  / 
countenance  of  the  /  fading  moon  I  have  known  /  nothing  so  cruel  as 
dawn  "(1984/96),  not  to  mention  Carter's,  ".  .  .  /  when  I  saw  that  distant 
look  /  in  the  late  moon 's  glare,  /  .  .  .  "  seem  more  kyoka  than  this  mad 
translator's  perversely  conservative  interpretation  made  before  reading 
Kyusojin  note  crediting  the  poem  to  "a  woman  S>5ic"  in  Tadamine's 
collection  and  a  meeting  after  waiting  with  no  consummation.  One  of  the 
more  bathetic  waka  in  the  Kokinshu  and  the  anthology  that  made  it  famous, 
Hundred  Poets  One  Poem  (it  is  #30),  it  cries  for  the  following  parody: 

ariake  no  tsurenaku  ienu  hizengasa  kakubakari  mi  ni  ukimono  wa  nashi  monk  takuan 
matinmoon's  wretched  heal=say-not  scabies(mites)  scratch=such  body/self-to  blues-as4  not 

Up  with  scabies  until  dawn  real  misery  sings  another  tune 
Scratching,  tell  me,  itching,  tell  me  of  your  matin  moon! 

While  including  a  direct  retort  in  "the  matin  moon  is  hardly  cruel, "  the 
parody  by  itchy  Monk  Takuan  (1573-1645)  puns  on  "scratching  only"  and 
"to  this  extent"  (both  kakubakari)  to  make  it  clear  that  scabies  was  real 
misery.  Here,  we  do  not  feel  anything  similar  to  parody  for  the  sake  of 
parody.  We  have  a  poem  composed  for  the  poet's  relief.  While  playing 
with  other  people's  poems,  we  forget  ourselves.  You  can  bet  that  Takuan 
did  not  feel  his  itching  as  he  penned  his  parody  as  your  translator  did  not 
hear  his  tinnitus  while  re-creating  it  in  translation.  And,  since  other  people 
usually  appreciate  a  parody  while  they  are  liable  to  look  askance  at  a 
straight  complaint,  it  is  a  medicine  for  the  spirit  one  can  share. 


The  parodies  we  have  seen  so  far  are  singular  products,  but  the  best  place 
to  appreciate  parody-as-an-art  is  in  a  series,  when  an  entire  anthology  is 
parodied.  Let  us  see  some  samples  from  one  such  work  parodying  the 
Hundred  Poets  One  Poem  (Hyakunin-isshu)  by  the  Tenmei  kyoka's  first 
man  Ota  Nanpo,  aka  Shokusanjin,  interspersed  with  some  sundry  parodies 
by  other  poets.  Here  is  the  first  poem  in  his  Kyoka  Hundred  Poets: 


70 


parody:  %k<Dm<Dfr*)fe(Djfe(DWti!)>Z)tz  t  «9  %  -  &OT  W%  P$  V  OO  ^UjA 
original:  $C<£>  ffl         «9  £  fe  h  &  S^^ft|C^OO  ^|?^J: 

parody:  afo'  «o  to  wo  kctriho  no  io  no  utctgaruta  torizokonatte  yuki  wa  furitsutsu  shokusanjin  $EI$;Ia  A- H" 
orig.:       «o  to  «o  kariho  no  io  no  toma  o  arami  waga  koromode  wa  tsuyu  ni  nuretsutsu  emp.  tenji  7c 
parod:  autumn  field's  harvested-rice-ears'  cottage's  poem-card  take-mistaking  snow-as4,  falling-while 
original,  autumn  field's  harvested  ears'  hut's  matting  (made)  rough  my  sleeves-as-for  dew-w/  wetting 


The  hut  for  ears  of  grain  from  autumn  fields,  I  sought  -  oh,  no! 
That  song  card  was  wrong,  so,  now  I  pluck  in  the  falling  snow. 

Orig.:  Coarse  the  rush-mat  roof,  sheltering  the  harvest-hut  of  the  autumn  rice-field;  / 
And  my  sleeves  are  growing  wet  with  the  moisture  dripping  through,  trans.  CM  1907 

Parody  is  doubly  difficult  in  translation  because  interesting  readings 
require  the  same  poetic  license  for  both  originals  so  chance  dictates  that 
the  two  poems  drift  apart.  The  side-by-side  romanization  and  gloss  show 
the  similar  start  of  both  better  than  a  comparison  of  the  translations  (the 
waka  by  Clay  MacCauley).  The  take-off  lets  go  of  the  damp  second  half  of 
the  original  and  heads  right  to  the  popular  card  game  which  helped  make 
the  Hundred  Poet  anthology  the  most  popular  and  most  parodied  in  Japan 
and  probably  the  world.  Speed  won  matches,  so  players  often  snatched  up 
the  wrong  card  and  that  was  particularly  common  with  poem  #1  because 
#15  also  began  the  second  part  "my  (long)  sleeves  ~"  {waga  koromode), 
though  said  sleeves  get  soaked  in  dew  in  the  former,  while  snow  is  braved 
to  pluck  young  greens  in  the  latter.  As  most  poems  in  the  Hundred  Poet 
anthology  already  had  more  than  one  good  parody,  if  one  sticks  close  to 
the  poem  it  is  hard  to  come  up  with  a  fresh  angle.  With  the  very  first  poem, 
the  great  poet-editor  shows  us  how  to  moot  that  problem  altogether  and,  in 
so  doing,  invents  a  new  genre  of  meta-parody. 


orig.:  #ifi^TK3fcte:fr&  L  ^(D^W^X^h^<D^iK\h  WWJiM- 
parody: \W5L¥<DftMt£fl\Z  fr^lkX*&\$1rX&  m\U^ 
orig.:  haru  sugite  natsu  kinikerashi  shirotae  no  koromo  hosu  cho  ama  no  kaguyama  emp.  jito 
parody:  ika  ho  do  no  sentaku  nareba  kaguyama  de  koromo  hosu  cho  jito  tenno  shokusanjin 
orig.:  spring  passing  summer  came-seems  white/mulbrrybark  robes  dry  said  heaven's  kagu-mt. 
parody:  how  much  laundry  become-would/if  kagu-mt.-with/at  robes  dry  said  jito  emperor 


With  spring  done,  How  much  laundry 

has  summer  now  come?  did  Empress  Jito  have? 

Behold  the  white  Enough,  i  guess, 

Robes  of  mulberry  drying  That  to  dry  it  she  had  to 

on  heavenly  Mount  Kagu.  resort  to  Mount  Kagu 


This  facetiously  naive  response  to  the  second  poem  in  Hundred  Poets  by 
Empress  Jito  (645-702)  takes  only  one  phrase  from  the  original,  "drying 


clothes/robes"  and  is  basically  a  comment  about  the  poet  based  on  the 
content  of  her  poem.  Shokusanjin  knew  the  pure  white  robes  woven  of 
pounded  and  bleached  mulberry  bark  fiber  were  used  for  sacred 
ceremonies  and  not  her  personal  wardrobe.  The  name  of  the  small 
mountain,  near  the  Imperial  palace,  Kagu,  is  homophonous  with  fragrant 
and  furniture,  including  laundry  poles,  which  may  or  may  not  have  helped 
evoke  the  response.  There  may  be  more  to  the  waka  than  has  traditionally 
been  read  into  it.  Is  it  not  possible  the  Empress  describes  waterfalls  flush 
with  the  rain  of  early  summer  shining  in  the  sun?  The  hills  might  have 
been  landscaped  for  the  Empress's  viewing  pleasure  and  the  original 
preface  for  the  poem  lost .  .  .  Or,  considering  the  ancient  ties  of  the  white- 
robed  women  called  ama  -  homophonic  with  the  heavenly  epithet  of  Mt. 
Kagu  -  who  dove  for  abalone  and  the  Imperial  family,  who  can  say  there 
is  not  a  just-so  explanation  here?  - 

I  Know  Why  We  Call  It  That 

With  spring  over, 
summer  is  a  sea  of  green 
and  blue,  drying 

White  robes,  yes,  abalone  girls 
make  it  Ama  no  Mount  Kagu! 

Such  a  just-so  reading  would  also  make  sense  of  the  "as/so  said"  XJir> 
cho  ("to  iu"  in  modern  Japanese)  pegged  on  the  ama.  Needless  to  say,  an 
amateur  explanation  not  offered  by  other  annotators  over  the  millennia  is 
almost  surely  bogus,  but  one  cannot  help  trying  to  make  sense  of  things. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  Shokusanjin's  kyoka  is  beaten  by  a  senryu: 

yama  de  hosu  sasuga  jotei  wa  koromo  mochi 
mountain-with  dry  surenuf  empress-as-for  clothes-owner 

Needing  a  mountain 
to  dry  them,  man,  that  empress 
had  a  wardrobe! 

All  things  equal,  brevity  is  not  only  the  soul  of  wit  but  its  measure.  The 
senryu,  unfortunately,  undated  (prob.  late-18-early  19c),  says  it  all.  In 
Shokusanjin's  defense,  he  did  all  100  waka.  And  who  says  the  anonymous 
senryu  isn't  his?  One  more  point  before  proceeding  to  #3  of  Hundred 
Poems.  Neither  Shokusanjin's  kyoka  nor  the  senryu  are  imitations. 
English  dictionaries  define  "parody"  many  ways,  but  rarely  fail  to  mention 
imitation.  So,  is  or  is  not  Shokusanjin's  poem  a  parody? 


72 


foL3l£>  III  Jb  LfcOriMi  A^Lff^t)   ti^/^L  iJUiA 

ashibiki  no  yamadori  no  o  no  shidario  no  naganagashi  yo  o  hitori  ka  mo  nen  hitomaro 
kogen  wa  yamadori  no  ya  no  gotoshi  naganagashiku  mo  nagane  sen  ka  mo  teiryu 
ashibiki  no  yamadori  no  o  no  shitarigao  hitomaru  bakari  utayomi  de  nashi  shokusanjin 
ashibiki  no  yamaya  ga  udon-jiru  mo  yoshi  naganagashiki  o  hitori  susuran  anonymous? 

leg-drag-mt. -bird's  tail's  trailing-tail's  longx2  night+acc/!  alone  maybe/emph.  sleep-will 
light-shade-as-for  mt.bird  arrow  resembling  long-longly+emph  longsleep  do-would  ! 
leg-drag-mt. -bird's  tail's  trailing  boastful-face  hitomaru  alone  poem-composer's  not 
leg-draggng  mtn  shop's  udon  (noodle)  soup/stock+emph  good,  singly  slurp- would. 

This  night  that  I  seem  bound  to  sleep  alone  will  be  longer  still 
than  the  tails  trailing  pheasants  through  the  wild  foot-drag  hills. 

Light  &  shade  as  long  as  the  shaft  on  pheasant-hunting  arrow-heads. 
I,  too,  would  be  very  long .  .  .  long  indeed,  asleep  in  bed! 

The  tails  that  trail  the  wild  pheasants  drag  on  long  enough; 
&  I'm  fed  up  with  centuries  of  "Waka  is  Hitomaru  "  stuff! 

Good,  too,  is  the  noodle  stock  at  this  foot-drag  mountain  shop  - 
Long,  indeed,  we  slurp  alone  and  hope  the  slurping  never  stops! 

The  original  by  Kakimoto  Hitomaro  (popularly  Hitomaru),  third  in  the 
Hundred  Poets,  was  famous  and  doubtless  well-paraversed  and  parodied 
long  before  the  anthology  was  born.  After  all,  the  poet  was  the  classic 
Japanese  poet  and  hyperbole  is  catching.  The  first  spoof,  by  Teiryu 
(c.1730),  whose  popularity  in  his  day  was  as  phenomenal  as  Shokusanjin 
in  his,  describes  life  in  a  mountain  hollar  via  the  proverbial  arrow  of  time 
and  puts  in  a  good  word  for  sleeping.  Shokusanjin  loved  the  subject  of 
sleep  but  Teiryu  having  beat  him  to  it,  went  another  direction.  Again,  it 
concerns  something  beyond  the  content  of  the  particular  poem.  It  seems 
the  literary  war  call  of  a  creative  editor  tired  of  hearing  platitudes.  The 
slurping  poem  deserves  attribution  for  it  is  delightful  for  all  who  are 
Japanese  or  used  to  the  sound  of  slurping  noodles,  at  any  rate.  Who  knows 
but  it  was  written  by  a  poet  who  visited  such  a  shop  and  scribbled  it  on  a 
napkin  to  get  a  free  second  helping  after  which  the  owner  glued  it  to  a 
proper  backing  and  hung  it  on  the  wall,  where  it  was  discovered  by  a 
literatae  who  brought  it  down  the  mountain  and  put  it  into  a  book  that 
whoever  graciously  introduced  it  to  the  world-wide  web  read. 

The  next  poem  we  shall  see  is  #24,  one  of  the  lightest  poems  of  the 
Hundred.  So  light,  in  fact,  that  it  is  comic.  So,  what  will  Shokusanjin  do? 


michizane  kono  tabi  wa  nusa  mo  toriaezu  tamukeyama  momiji  no  nishiki  kami  no  ma  ni  ma  ni 
I  this  occasion/travel-as4  prayerstrip  even  for  now  offering-hill  red-leave-brocade,  gods  as  is 


kono  tabi  wa  nusa  mo  toriaezu  tamukeyama  mada  sonoue  ni  saizeni  mo  nashi  shokusanjin 
this  occasn/trvl-as4  pryrstrp  evn  for  now  offering-hill  also  that-above  smallchange  even  not 

The  first  line  of  the  original  written  in  898  when  Sugawara  no  Michizane, 
one  of  the  "gods  of  ancient  Japanese  poetry,"  visited  Tamukeyama, 
literally  Offering-mountain,  is  shared  by  the  parody  and  should  be  "On 
this  occasion/trip"  rather  than  "travel  is  travail."  In  Kokinshu's  book  9, 
Travel  Poems,  it  is  followed  by  Monk  Sosei:  "I  ought  to  tear  a  strip  from 
my  patched  robe  for  an  offering  /  But  the  gods,  jaded  from  the  colored 
leaves,  might  return  it.  "  (fttt  f+  \Z.  fio^  V)  (Djfo  i  #  S^<#  f£  t>  fcfc 
I ~f  <5  #  $  ^tt^BfP  l*f  #  42 1  tamuke  ni  wa  tsuzuri  no  sode  mo 
kiru  beki  ni  momiji  ni  akeru  kami  ya  kaesan).  As  #024  was  already  mad, 
Shokusanjin  simply  added  an  Edoite  snicker.  The  stereotypical  noble, 
unlike  a  commoner,  carried  no  small  change,  as  he  had  no  need  for  it. 


The  variety  of  parody  in  Japanese  poetry  is  so  great  that  one  might  easily 
fill  a  book  with  them,  exampling,  say,  a  hundred  types  of  take-offs.  Indeed, 
one  might  do  that  from  one  early-seventeenth-century  book  (Nise  Mono- 
gatari,  or  Fake  Tales  of  Ise,  which  has  over  200+  poems  parodied).  As 
alluding  to,  borrowing  from  or  commenting  on  other  poems  is,  like 
hyperbole,  not  a  theme  but  a  method,  there  are  more  parodies  scattered 
throughout  the  other  nineteen  chapters  of  this  book,  enough,  that  by  the 
time  you  finish  reading,  you  will  have  seen  as  many  again  as  you  see  here 
and  have  a  pretty  good  grasp  of  what  kyoka  parody  is.  Still,  the  fact  10% 
or  so  of  kyoka  are  parody  of  one  sort  or  another  does  not  justify  kyoka 
being  categorically  equated  with  it,  much  less  being  put  down  as  a  minor 
second-hand  literature  as  a  result.  One  might  as  well  equate  all  English 
light-verse  with  parody  simply  because  it  was  very  common  until  the  mid- 
20c  (modern  anthologies  do  not  reflect  that  because  few  parodies,  includ- 
ing poems  written  in  the  style  of  so-and-so  rather  than  taking-off  on  a 
single  poem,  in  old  books  of  poetry  are  included  by  modern  editors  who 
know  all  too  well  we  no  longer  read  enough  poetry  to  appreciate  them). 


Travel  is  travail 
I  brought  no  votive  poems; 
Mount  Offering 


Wears  a  fall  brocade,  ye  gods 
I  pray,  accept  it  all,  as  is! 


On  top  of  that,  as  you  see, 
I  have  no  change  with  me! 


To  sum  up  the  situation,  we  may  say  that  most  xvaka  that  are  clearly 
parodies  as  opposed  to  variants  of  other  waka  may  be  called  kyoka,  but 
most  kyoka  cannot  be  called  parodies  by  any  definition  of  parody.  Second, 
even  if  kyoka  were  mostly  parody,  the  idea  that  parody  is  less  creative  than 
poems  created  ex  nihilis  so  to  speak  is  bunk.  If  anything,  a  parody  is  more 
likely  to  include  a  measure  of  linguistic  or  conceptual  freshness  than  a 
poem  its  author  naively  believes  to  be  entirely  his  or  her  own  when 
anyone  who  reads  mountains  of  poetry  knows  true  novelty  is  rare.  Parody 
is  not  respected  in  a  country,  in  a  culture,  where  this  and  that  trite  thought 
may  be  delivered  and  received  as  if  it  were  a  revelation.  Think  of 
inventions  outside  of  language  if  you  will.  It  is  true  that  once  in  a  while 
some  astoundingly  fresh  idea  so  unlike  anything  that  came  before  so  as  to 
require  no  reference  to  other  inventions  appears  out  of  the  blue,  but  99% 
of  inventions  that  actually  gain  patents  are  improvements  on  other 
inventions.  They  are,  in  other  words,  parodies.  Most  of  the  things  people 
who  do  not  know  what  has  already  been  invented  invent  are  re-inventions, 
interesting  to  the  re-inventor  to  be  sure,  but  not  to  people  who  really  know 
the  field.  The  same  can  be  said  for  most  poems  by  amateur  poets. 

In  other  words,  acknowledging  and  appreciating  parody  rather  than  putting 
it  down  does  not  make  a  literary  culture  inferior  to  one  that  does  not. 
Rather,  it  proves  a  high  degree  of  literacy  on  the  part  of  both  the  poets  and 
the  readers.  Reading  the  parody  of  old  Japan,  a  true  lover  of  literature 
should  think  that  we  should  be  so  lucky!  But,  for  better  or  worse,  such 
deep  literacy  is  probably  gone  forever.  We  now  live  in  a  world  which,  to 
one  familiar  with  what  was,  seems  more  like  something  that  might  be 
called  pigeon,  or  possibly  Creole.  Such  language  has  its  own  charm,  but  it 
is  not  at  all  like  that  offered  by  a  long  unbroken  tradition  of  literacy. 


PIssa  as  the  top  philosopher  of  dew.  The  Kaizosha  haikai  saijiki  gives  Issa  so 
great  a  portion  of  the  dew  examples  that  one  might  say  that  Issa  was  indirectly 
recognized  by  at  least  one  editor.  Now,  saijiki  almanacs  tend  to  be  too 
egalitarian  both  in  the  space  allotted  to  topics  (the  difference  in  #  of  examples  is 
far  less  than  in  reality)  and  to  the  #  of  examples  of  a  given  topic  allowed  to  one 
poet  (not  reflecting  the  way  some  poets  exhaust  and  hence  own  themes)  to  give 
credit  where  it  is  due. 

P  Shokusanjin  Invents  a  New  Genre  of  Meta-parody.  This  is  only  half-right. 
Shokusanjin  had  a  higher  percentage  of  such  surprising  take-offs  than  anyone 
else,  but  a  17c  Hundred  Poet  parody  and  Fake  Ise  {Nise-monogatari)  include 
some  such.  Your  translator  must  read  more  and  more  carefully  before  giving  a 
patent  to  Shokusanjin.  Also,  that  sort  of  meta-association  is  found  in  work  by  so- 
called  gesaku  literature  masters  such  as  Hiraga  Gennai. 


Water  On  Fire,  or  the  Elements  of  Mad  Love 

kimi  kouru  namida  shi  nakuba  karagoromo  mune  no  atari  wa  iro  moenamashi  ki  no  tsurayuki 
you  longing  tears  +emph.  not-if  Chinese  robe  breast's  area-as-for  color/desire  burn-would  c  905 

But  for  these  tears  I  shed  for  you,  the  silk  above  my  breast 
Would  burst  into  flame  as  red  as  a  Chinese  dress! 

In  Vain,  My  Love? 

But  for  these  tears  I  shed  for  you,  the  red  of  my  Chinese  dress 
Would  burst  into  flame  in  that  area  just  above  my  breast! 

In  Japanese,  the  metaphor  of  burning  passion  is  fortified  by  orthographical 
coincidence:  "love,"  kohi,  or  thoughts  of  it,  omohi  (now,  respectively,  koi  & 
omot)  both  include  "fire,"  hi.  The  first  reading  takes  Chinese  dress, 
karagoromo,  for  a  simile.  The  second  follows  Rodd+Henkenius  ( "but  for 
the  tears  of  /  unrequited  love  that  /  gently  stream  for  you  /  my  Chinese 
robe  would  burn  red  /  over  my  feverish  breast ")  in  translating  karagoromo 
literally,  but,  as  it  was  known  for  its  bright  reds,  gave  what  was  there 
already,  the  additional  property  of  burning.  Kara,  meaning  "Chinese," 
may  homophonically  evoke  an  "empty=£ara  "  shell  of  oneself,  i.e.,  loving 
in  "vain;"  hence  my  title,  also  intended  to  bring  out  the  humor  -  wasted 
tears  doing  some  good  by  keeping  passion  from  burning  out  of  control  (by 
removing  trace  elements,  tears  shed  from  emotion  do  have  calming 
properties).  If  this  poem,  by  Kokinshu 's  editor  Tsurayuki,  is  not  generally 
considered  a  kyoka,  it  is  only  because  such  language  was  too  common  in 
love  to  be  "mad."  The  first  100%  mad  fire  in  the  breast  awaits  old  Monk 
Socho  (1448-1532),  whose  paper  robe  actually  caught  fire  when  he  slept 
below  the  kotatsu,  a  sort  of  combined  heater  and  table: 

"Morning  dawned  /  with  nothing  to  show  for  the  fire  /  that  coursed 
through  my  breast  /  and  my  robe  as  well  -  /  what  an  awful  night! " 
(toru  tokoro  .  .  .  trans.  H.  Mack  Horton:  2002). 

Socho  took  advantage  of  Ono  no  Komachi's  poem  (hito  ni  awa  .  .  .  kks 
#1030),  where  she  wakes  up  with  flames  of  passion  barbecuing  her  heart. 
She  and  Socho  used  an  uncommon  phrase  j$|  ^  *9  'X  mune-hashiribi, 
meaning  "pectoral-wildfire,"  where  the  "wild"  in  Japanese  is  literally 
"running"  and  becomes  "coursed  through"  in  Horton's  good  translation. 

I>  R  &  H's  "unrequited,"  "gently  stream  for  you"  and  "feverish"  explain  and  pad  to  fill 
out  the  requisite  number  of  syllables.  Because  your  translator  provides  those  ugly  glosses, 
you  can  see  what  is  or  is  added  or  lost.  With  others'  translations,  you  cannot.  In  other 
words,  I  am  not  the  only  one  adding  &  subtracting,  just  the  only  one  doing  it  openly! 


fcmfeteft  fa%ffi<Dmat  fob         Mir  b  As  — #  X1t  11 

asa-yu  ni  kamado-hanaremi  rd-neko  no  koi  ni  wa  aranu  mi  o  kogasu-ran  issa 
morning-night-in  stove  leave/s-not  old  cat's  love-for  is-not  body+acc.  burn+emph. 


J>  Day  in,  day  out,  fi 
ne  'er  leaving  the  stove 
Old  Tom,  you  leave  no  doubt 
even  one  who  does  not  rove 
for  love  can  still  get  burnt! 

Even  when  cats  in  heat  do  not  disturb  us  in  the  dead  of  night,  they  may 
infuriate  some  not  doing  it  themselves  at  the  time.  Don't  be  envious!  Not 
all  cats  are  eager  to  join  the  fray.  Old  Toms  may  be  tired;  young  Toms 
afraid.  And,  cats,  despite  their  willingness  to  play  in  the  snow,  do,  indeed, 
love  heat.  In  Japan,  where  central  heating  is  uncommon,  a  cat  that  finds  a 
source  of  heat  may  hang  on  to  it  like  a  man  on  a  life-raft.  One  cat  sank  her 
claws  into  a  felt-covered  hot-water-bottle-sized  electric  heater  bought  to 
keep  the  author's  computer  from  fogging  over.  The  phrase  "you  leave  no 
doubt,"  compensates  for  the  unEnglishable  suffix  on  the  last  verb,  "ran,  " 
an  audible  exclamation  with  a  grin  or  a  laugh  in  it.  Issa's  kyoka  contains 
no  obvious  allusions  or  borrowings,  but  plays  with  the  whole  concept  of 
love-as-burning,  and  it  no  more  left  his  journal,  than  his  cat  left  the  stove. 

0  O 

O  o  o 

nakanaka  ni  nani  ka?  shirikemu  wagayama  ni  moyurn  kemuri  no  soto  ni  mimashi  o 
rashly  why?  know[+done  &  bad]  my  mount.-at  burning  smoke's  outside-by  see-would+rather! 

0  0      o      o       o  o  o 

\  \  \\      ///  / 
volcano 

\  Wll  I 
fire  &  ash, 

1  was  rash! 
just  once  with  you 
was  once  too  much 

I'd  rather  sit  back  and  watch 
another  woman 's  heart  erupt! 

This  8c  Manyoshu  waka,  left  in  its  Many 6  script  (100%  Chinese  characters) 
lacks  the  nominal  hi,  or  "fire"  found  in  Tsurayuki's  later  poem.  Rather 
than  kohi  (longing/desiring)  or  omohi  (longing/worrying),  love  here  is 
Biblically  expressed,  i.e.,,  as  knowing  (£p  shiri).  The  poem  was  not  with 
the  comic  odds  &  ends  (mys  bk.16),  but  elsewhere  with  a  score  of  poems 


"expressing  thoughts  by  reference  to  things  Hr^SS."  Needless  to  say, 
hyperbolic  metaphor  is  comical  for  the  reader  even  if  the  poet  was  serious. 
"Sit  back"  was  added  to  capture  the  strong  emotion  of  the  "rather"  implied 
in  that  trailing  "o."  A  paraverse  of  the  same  in  the  style  of  Dorothy  Parker: 

See  the  volcano  blow  its  top! 

I  wish  it  were  not  me. 

And  had  we  never  met,  my  dear, 

It  wouldn  7  be. 

More  such  may  be  found  in  A  Dolphin  In  the  Woods  (2009),  but  to  return 
to  the  subject,  nominally  burning  passion,  Cranston's  Shuishu  (c.1005) 
translations  (in  Waka  v.2)  include  song  #597,  which  he  translates, 

"The  furious  gods  /  Also  know  the  flames  of  love:  /  Must  it  not  be  so, 
/  That  across  the  endless  years  /  The  mountain  Fuji  burns?  " 

This  was  among  poems  attributed  to  the  legendary  poet  Kakimoto  no 
Hitomaro  (fl. 680-700).  Cranston  notes  that  its  usage  of  the  fire  pun  on  the 
letter  hi  in  omohi  {kami  mo  omoi  no  areba  koso)  proves  it  to  actually  be 
post-9c.  He  also  translates  an  allegorical  Manyoshu  #1336  (fuyu-gomori 
haru  no  .  .  .),  where  a  woman,  content  with  hibernating,  rhetorically  asks, 
or,  rather,  complains  of  a  spring  field-burner  -  that's  a  fireman  for  you!  - 

"Can  he  never  burn  enough,  /  That  now  he  sets  fire  to  my  heart?  " 

It,  too,  has  no  pun,  indeed  no  koi  or  omoi  at  all,  just  "my  heart  (he)  burns  " 
(waga  kokoro  yaku).  So,  we  may  ask,  with  fires  in  fields  and  mountains 
associated  with  passion,  why  was  that  found  within  words  not  taken 
advantage  of  in  the  Manyoshu?  Was  it  because  parts  of  words  were  rarely 
punned  at  this  time?  Or,  was  "hi"  simply  more  likely  to  be  punned  as 
"sad"  than  "fire,"  for  Manyo  script  often  wrote  koi  as  MM,  literally, 
"solitude+sadness?  Or  was  it  because  water,  rather  than  fire,  dominated  as 
the  natural  element  of  love  for  ancient  Japanese,  with  lots  of  ocean,  stream, 
wave,  shore  and  seaweed  metaphors  (Aren't  our  guts  more  likely  to  swim 
than  burn?)?  Some  attained  considerable  allegorical  complexity  -  Cranston 
translates  one  where  the  "heart"  is  a  water  plant  that  bobs  in  the  current  by 
the  shore  neither  coming  in  nor  going  out.  He  notes  that  it  "captures  the 
meaningless  though  not  unpleasant  motion  of  a  love  affair  that  is  going 
nowhere. "  Perhaps.  Then  again,  who  says  he  isn't  sea-sick  and  wishing 
with  Willie  (Nelson),  "  P  If  you  can 't  say  you  love  me,  say  you  hate 
me  ....  J>"  ?  ...  Regardless,  it  is  an  extraordinary  metaphor! 

We'll  continue  for  a  while  with  the  lesser  element,/zre,  before  getting  wet. 


ft  5  ft#V<5<  (DpUOV^  £ ^tiTcD^^^r^^-^^ 

o«a  unagi  izuku  no  yama  no  imo  to  se  o  sakarete  nochi  ni  mi  o  kogasu  to  wa  yomo  no  akara 
pitiful=hole(waterhole)-eel,  eventually's  mountain-potato(a  long  thin  variety )=girlfriend  & 
boyfriend=back(of  a  body)+acc.  //  split/separating  after  body/self+acc.  roast/burn-as-for 


P  The  Spitchcock  Blues  J> 


Poor  country  girl  My  poor  Unagi, 

and  boy  after  the  fashion  born  of  wild  potato,  split 
of  eels  are  split,  down  your  back, 

For  roasting  on  the  coals  How  sweet  parting  hurts 

of  their  very  own  passion!  when  you  're  burnt  black! 


Mad  poets  had  to  be  very  inventive  to  outdo  the  flaming  hearts  of  ancient 
waka,  with  their  volcanoes,  fireflies  and  moths  and  create  truly  novel  fire 
metaphor.  This  poem,  one  of  the  three  most  cited  kyoka  (75 1783)  by  the 
most  famous  kyoka  poet  -  Yomo  no  Akara  =  Shokusanjin  =  Ota  Nanpo  - 
succeeds  in  doing  just  that.  The  Spitchcock  Blues  (my  title)  has  probably 
never  been  translated.  Why?  Because  the  reading,  like  the  eel,  must  be 
split.  At  least,  this  translator  could  not  keep  it  whole,  as  in  the  original, 
and  had  to  settle  for  a  composite  translation.  The  eel's  original  form,  the 
"potato,"  imo,  is  homophonous  with  "little-sister,"  or  girlfriend.  The 
variety  mentioned,  the  unagi,  a  relatively  flat  "common  eel,"  is  split  open 
from  the  belly  for  roasting  in  most  of  Japan,  but  in  Kanto,  which  is  to  say 
greater  Edo  (now,  Tokyo)  it  was  split  from  the  back  as  required  for  the 
pun  -  a  boyfriend  is  a  "back, "  se,  short  for  "my  baby,"  waga  seko,  or 
rather  papoose,  for  that  is  how  they  are  carried.  The  roast  indirectly 
boasts  "this  is  how  we  make  mad  poems  in  the  new  capital  city!"  Nanpo 
did  not,  however,  invent  the  odd  metamorphosis.  It  was  part  of  folklore  for 
hundreds  of  years  and,  like  most  such  long-held  folk  beliefs,  supported  by 
many  old  reports  of  half-eel-half-potatoes  with  specific  names  and  places. 


natsuyase  to  hito  ni  wa  kakusu  kurushisa  yo  waga  mune  no  hi  no  atsusa-make  o  mo 
"summer-wasting"  people-to-as4  hiding  painfulness!  my  breast's  fire's  heat-losing  though 

How  I  suffer  when  I  cover  up  -  "It 's  only  the  summer  thins.  " 
I  really  cannot  take  the  heat  of passion  burning  from  within! 


In  waka,  growing  thin  from  lovesickness  was  sometimes  explained  away 
as  summer-thinning  (a  malady  suffered  by  most  of  the  population  in  pre- 
modern  times).  Coupling  that  with  heat  from  longing  and  trying  to  hide  it 
took  a  stroke  of  genius.  Unfortunately,  the  translation  of  this  uncelebrated 
Tenmei  kyoka  by  a  poet  whose  name  translates  as  Snail-shine  suffers  for 


lack  of  English  words  for  summer-thinning  and  heat-losing  (failure  to  take 
the  heat);  the  fortuitous  English  idiom  "cover  up"  only  partially  makes  up 
for  it.  This  is  not  to  say  that  English  does  not  have  its  own  ways  of 
expressing  passion  as  fire,  not  all  of  which  would  Japanese.  For,  even 
without  the  omo(h)i  and  ko(h)i  puns  putting  fire  into  all  love,  "our"  poets 
were  perfect  pyromaniacs  of  passion.  Addison  gave  the  following 
examples  of  what  he  called  "mixt  wit,"  with  "foundations  .  .  .  laid  partly  in 
falsehood  [pun]  and  partly  in  truth  [ideas],"  from  Cowley's  poems  in  his 
well-known  essay  of  True  and  False  Wit, 

Cowley  observing  the  cold  regard  of  his  mistress's  eyes,  and  at  the  same  time 
their  power  of  producing  love  in  him,  considers  them  as  burning-glasses 
made  of  ice;  and  finding  himself  able  to  live  in  the  greatest  extremities  of 
love,  concludes  the  torrid  zone  to  be  habitable.  When  his  mistress  had  read 
his  letter  written  in  juice  of  lemon,  by  holding  it  to  the  fire,  he  desires  her  to 
read  it  over  a  second  time  by  love's  flame.  When  she  weeps,  he  wishes  it 
were  inward  heat  that  distilled  those  drops  from  the  limbes.  When  she  is 
absent,  he  is  beyond  eighty,  that  is,  thirty  degrees  nearer  the  pole  than  when 
she  is  with  him.  His  ambitious  love  is  a  fire  that  naturally  mounts  upwards; 
his  happy  love  is  the  beams  of  heaven,  and  his  unhappy  love  flames  of  hell. 
When  it  does  not  let  him  sleep,  it  is  a  flame  that  sends  up  no  smoke;  when  it 
is  opposed  by  counsel  and  advice,  it  is  a  fire  that  rages  the  more  by  the  winds 
blowing  upon  it.  Upon  the  dying  of  a  tree,  in  which  he  had  cut  his  loves,  he 
observed  that  his  written  flames  had  burnt  up  and  withered  the  tree.  When  he 
resolves  to  give  over  his  passion,  he  tells  us,  that  one  burnt  like  him  for  ever 
dreads  the  fire.  His  heart  is  an  Etna,  that  instead  of  Vulcan's  shop,  encloses 
Cupid's  forge  in  it.  His  endeavouring  to  drown  his  love  in  wine,  is  throwing 
oil  upon  the  fire.  He  would  insinuate  to  his  mistress,  that  the  fire  of  love,  like 
that  of  the  sun  (which  produces  so  many  living  creatures,)  should  not  only 
warm,  but  beget.  Love  in  another  place  cooks  pleasure  at  his  fire.  Sometimes 
the  poet's  heart  is  frozen  in  every  breast,  and  sometimes  scorched  in  every 
eye.  Sometimes  he  is  drowned  in  tears,  and  burnt  in  love,  like  a  ship  set  on 
fire  in  the  middle  of  the  sea.  The  reader  may  observe  in  every  one  of  these 
instances,  that  the  poet  mixes  the  qualities  of  fire  with  those  of  love;  and  in 
the  same  sentence,  speaking  of  it  both  as  a  passion  and  as  real  fire,  surprises 
the  reader  with  those  seeming  resemblances  or  contradictions,  that  make  up 
all  the  wit  in  this  kind  of  writing. 

Despite  giving  grudging  admission  to  mixt  wit  as  valid,  Addison  none-the- 
less  pronounced  its  "only  province"  as  the  "epigram,  or  those  little 
occasional  poems,  that  in  their  own  nature  are  nothing  else  but  a  tissue  of 
epigrams. "  Since  most  kyoka  wit  is  mixed  -  pun  and  concept  -  and  all 
kyoka  are  short  enough  to  be  epigrams,  one  might  say  that  the  mad  poems 
in  this  book  have  the  great  essayist's  mark  of  approval.  Now,  let  us 
return  to  them  and  move  on  to  the  wet  side  of  passion,  tears. 


bo  hodo  na  namida  nagashite  ima  wa  haya  koi  no  omoni  o  ninau  bakari  zo  kuroda  getsudoken 
pole  amount  of  tears  flowing/ed  now-as-for  already  love/blues  burden+acc  bear  amount+emph. 


People  familiar  with  old  waka  do  not  bat  an  eye  when  they  come  across 
lovers  carried  off  or  drowned  in  their  own  tears,  but  flowing  so  thickly  as 
to  solidify  into  poles  strong  enough  for  portage,  well  that  is  not  only 
unusual  but  probably  unique;  and,  because  Getsudoken  and  his  poems 
have  not  received  the  attention  they  deserve,  a  hyperbole  as  fresh  today  as 
the  day  it  was  invented.  So  saying,  there  is  one  older  (skks)  poem  by  the 
fifty-eighth  retired  Emperor  where  tears  and  pole  fuse  so  beautifully  it 
would  be  a  crime  not  to  introduce,  though  no  translation  can  do  it  justice. 

namida  nomi  (=no  mi)  uki-izuru  ama  no  tsurizao  no  nagaki  yosngara  koi-tsutsu  zo  nuru  koko-in 
waves/teary  only=body  floatng-up  shellfishr's  gig/harvestng-pole's  lengthy  nght-lng  lnging-while  sleep 

Teary  me,  a  diver  pops  up  from  the  sea,  her  shellfish  pole 
Long  but  not  so  long  as  this  night  of  longing  for  my  soul. 

Through  this  night,  long  as  the  gig  of  a  diver  up  from  the  deep 
floating  on  my  bed  of  tears  soaked  with  longing,  I  would  sleep. 

The  mi  with  the  no  can  mean  "only"  (I'm  all  tears)  but  becomes  myself 
after  a  body  is  implied  by  floating  up  -  uki,  homophonous  with  being 
depressed.  A  diver's  long  pole/gig  brings  to  mind  the  mountain-bird's 
long  tail  on  Hitomaro's  famous  poem  (pg.72)  about  such  a  night.  This  is 
less  parody  than  improvement.  The  pole  used  for  hard  work  in  the  cold  sea 
evokes  the  "sleep,"  nuru,  homophonous  with  wet  that  takes  us  back  to  the 
teary  start.  Retired  Emperor  Koko's  poem  belongs  here  not  only  as  a  note 
to  Getsudoken's  poem  and  an  example  of  hyperbole  in  its  own  right  but  as 
a  beautiful  waka  that  would  be  a  kyoka  were  it  not  about  longing. 


From  mine  Eyes 
stream  Tears  like  Poles, 
&  they  grow  thick 

Enough  to  bear  the  Burden 
of  a  Love  no  longer  quick. 


The  tears  flowing 
from  my  eyes  made  poles 
thick  enough  now 

To  bear  a  sedan  in  which 
my  lovesick  blues  can  sit! 


Tears  from  my  eyes 
flowed  down  like  sticks,  a  pair! 
Now,  grown  to  poles, 

They  're  thick  enough  to  bear 
Love 's  blue  burden  of  despair. 


hito  kouru  koto  o  omoni  to  ninaimote  augo  naki  koso  wabishikarikere  anon 
person  yearn-4  thing+acc  weight-as  carry/shouldrng  meet=crryngpole-not  esp.  miserble 

/  carried  the  burden  of  my  yearning  for  him,  a  girl  without  a  pole. 
How  hard  to  bear  that  wait,  alone,  when  someone  does  not  show! 

Love 's  a  burden  until  you  meet  and  get  it  out  of  your  hair 
Like  carrying  water  without  a  pole,  it  is  hard  to  bear! 

As  poles  and  portage  went  together  in  the  Sinosphere,  using  them  to  carry 
the  burden  of  love  is  not  surprising.  The  many  variations  suggest  this 
poem  arose  from  folksong,  but  the  pun  on  carrying-pole  =  augo  = 
rendezvous  is  what  makes  all  work  in  the  original,  which  is  genderless.  As 
heavy  things,  such  as  water,  generally  carried  by  poles,  were  often  born  by 
women,  your  translator  made  Anonymous  a  girl,  while  R&H,  both  women, 
translated:  "his  yearning  love  he  /  bears  like  a  heavy  burden  /  on  his 
shoulders  like  /  a  porter  without  a  pole  —  /  no  meeting  eases  his  lot.  " 
Be  that  as  it  may,  the  immediate  precedent  for  Getsudoken's  poem  may  be 
the  following  kyoka  from  the  1679  Silver  Leaf  Savage  Songs  MMMWtM: 

suterarenu  shudo  nyodd  o  ninahinaba  koi  no  omoni  ni  bo  ya  orenan  shunjo 

If  you  must  bear  the  burden  of  loving  boys  and  women 
Break  it  off,  break  the  pole  which  makes  you  cany  them! 

If  you  can  give  up  neither  your  longing  for  boys  nor  for  women 
Love 's  twin  burden  will  break  the  pole  by  which  you  carry  them! 

While  a  phallic  undertone  is  to  some  degree  unavoidable,  trouble  reading 
obsolete  grammar  (sure  looked  imperative)  ruined  my  first  translation  and 
explanation  (Getsudoken  who  did  not  wish  to  be  a  monk,  kept  that  pole, 
but  admitting  love  was  not  free,  let  his  tears  as  poles  bear  his  burden.)  As 
Getsudoken  was  bisexual,  all  he  had  to  do  was  add  the  tears!  And, 
following  the  pole  of  Getsudoken's  kyoka,  we  lost  them.  Back  to  tears: 

hitorine  no  toko  ni  tamareru  namida  ni  wa  ishi  no  makura  mo  ukinubera  nari 
single-sleep-to  bed-in  gather  tears-by-as-for  stone-pillow/s  even  float-up/away  be 

When  I  sleep  alone,  /  In  my  bed  the  tears  collect,  /  And  on  such  a  tide  / 
Even  a  pillow  of  stone  /  Will  surely  rise  and  float,  tr.  Cranston  2a 

The  teary  flood  that  fills  the  bed  of  one  who  sleeps  alone 
Can  levitate  a  pillow,  though  it  be  of  stone! 

This  and  the  next,  also  by  Anon.,  are  among  selections  from  Kokin  waka- 
rokujd  "i'^Pfflft/Nife  (c.985)  made  by  Edwin  Cranston  (waka  2a). 


Nakitsumeshi  fuyu  no  namida  wa  kori  ni  ki  token  haruhi  wa  mi  mo  ya  nagaren 
cried  packed-in  winter  tears-as4  froze-to-came+emph  melt-will  spring- sun/day-as4 

Cranston  tr.:  The  winter  tears  /  That  I  wept  a  riverful  /  Have  frozen  solid;  / 
When  the  thaws  of  spring  begin,  /  Will  my  whole  body  flow  away? 

The  tears  I  cried  all  winter-long  are  frozen  en  masse; 
On  a  sunny  spring  day,  will  I  just  melt  and  run  away? 

There  is  no  explicit  sea  in  the  first  poem  or  river  in  the  second  but 
Cranston  probably  fills  in  what  does  indeed  lie  between  the  lines. 

m&-&}&t>&tt <  ba^ti^m(Dm(D^^^n<  7t#Kskks#i349 

kimi  ga  senu  waga  tamakura  wa  kusa  nareya  namida  no  tsuyu  no  yo  nayo  na  zo  oku  mitsutaka? 
you/lord/dear  do-not  my  arm-pillow-as4,  grass  became  tear-dew's  night  after  night+emph  sets  cl205 

The  pillow  your  arm  did  not  make  made  mine  turn  into  grass 
Night  after  night,  tears  run  like  dew,  settling  en  masse. 

The  implication  here  is  that  the  poet  did  not  meet  her  and  had  to  sleep 
outside  (not  likely  for  a  retired  Emperor)  or  had  to  travel  ("Grass-pillow," 
was  a  conceit  for  it)  away  from  her  because  he  was  sick  with  longing. 
Dew  tears  were  probably  introduced  by  the  poet  for  an  allusion  to  having 
not  even  a  dewdrop's  worth  of  a  chance.  The  Shinkokinshu  editor  put  the 
following  poem  after  it: 

0i£/6>9fi<  bt^^Ufc(D-^tiTM(0)\\(Dm^ts:tiit  M^#i350  BA^u 

tsuyu  bakari  okuramu  sode  wa  tanomarezu  namida  no  kawa  no  takitsu  senareba  anon 
dew  only/amount  setting  sleeve-as-for  depend-cannot,  tear-river-waterfalls  do-not-if 

Who  can  trust  a  lonely  sleeve  that  is  only  wet  with  dew? 
I'm  looking  for  a  flood  -  A  cataract  of  tears  from  you. 

Playing  on  the  quality  of  natural  phenomena,  together  they  echo  a  waka 
exchange  in  the  Tales  of  Ise  where  a  would-be  lover  blames  a  woman  for 
his  tears  and  gets  his  come-uppance  when  she  says  that  if  he  was  really 
crying  for  her,  he  would  weep  so  hard  it  would  have  swept  him  far  away. 

W\\^hW^^^^%t^n.ii^^<Di^^^\t^}0\z.   MM  skks 

namidagawa  mi  mo  ukinu  beki  nesame  kana  hakanakiyume  no  nagori  bakari  ni  jakuren 
tear-rvr  body/self  float-seems  awakenng!/:  transient/empty  drm's/s'  detritus  only-to  #1385 

Down  a  river  of  tears  I  float  and  waking  find  I  'm  washed  ashore 
Alone  with  the  detritus  of  my  dreams  and  nothing  more. 

Having  grown-up  by  the  sea-shore,  the  translator  could  not  help  adding 
said  body  of  water  to  both  readings  in  the  740-page  Monster:  A  River  of 
Tears  swept  me  downstream,  then  out  to  Sea  -  /  Beached,  I  awoke  with 


nothing  but  the  detritus  of  dreams,  and  River  of  Tears,  it  carries  you  out  to 
sea,  but  then  you  wake  /alone  with  nothing  but  the  flotsam  and  jetsam  of 
dreams.  Jakuren's  poem  is  probably  the  most  beautiful  tear-river  poems 
ever  written.  Let  us  see  some  waka  as  comic  as  kyoka: 


minaregawa  watasu  o  fune  ni  kotozuten  namida  ni  uku  to  kimi  ni  shirase  yo  akitsuna 
wetness-used-to-river  (p.n.?)  crossing  boat-to  words-transmit!  tears-upon  floating  you-to  tell 

I'm  stuck  in  a  river  and  the  river  is  me  someone  call  a  boat! 
And  tell  my  love  her  sweetheart  upon  his  tears  doth  float! 

Absent  a  word  comparable  to  minare,  "used  to  being  waterlogged"  this 
folksy  Tear  River  may  be  untranslatable  as  poetry.  The  existence  of  this 
one  marvelous  word  eclipses  all  200  varieties  of  Inuit  snow,  and  attached 
to  river,  i.e.,  Minare-gawa,  creates  something  simultaneously  river  and 
body.  What  is  Mr.  Lakoff  s  entire  book  of  metaphor  compared  to  this? 
The  contradictions  in  the  poem  surfaced  all  too  plainly  in  my  first  trans- 
lation: "I  may  be  soaked  already  but .  .  .  Someone,  won  'tyou  call  a  boat!  / 
I'd  cross  this  stream  -  and  go  tell  my  Dear  that  here  on  tears  I  float! " 


kakubakari  sekiwazurawaba  namidagawa  miyako  no  kata  e  nagare-iranamu  nagakata? 
thatmuch  checkpoint  bothered(by)  tear-river  capital's  person-to  flowing  enter  not? 


Gain  in  translation!  Japanese  rivers  and  watches  do  not  "run."  Here,  as  is 
often  the  case,  cultural  loss  is  no  problem,  so  long  as  it  is  explained.  It  is 
enough  to  know  that  curfews  and  checkpoints  around  cities  and  within 
them  made  life  hard  for  separated  lovers.  The  poem  also  suggests  that  the 
capital  had  clout.  It  is  uncertain  whether  the  tears  are  addressed  directly  or 
not.  If  it  is  the  sad  lover  talking  to  his  own  tear  rivers,  the  poem  is  a  classic 
kyoka.  But,  with  Japanese  poets  writing  from  the  point  of  view  of  either 
sex,  and  the  person  being  impossible  to  know  for  sure,  a  second  reading 
that  assumes  a  woman  in  the  Capital  kids  a  lover  stuck  in  the  boondocks 
whom  she  does  not  necessarily  want  calling  on  her  is  also  possible.  And 
other  interpretations  are  possible.  That  is  why  many  Japanese  short  poems 
may  be  read  many  times.  Be  that  as  it  may,  the  idea  of  putting  Tear  River 
to  work  is  about  as  mad  as  mad  can  be.  All  that  is  needed  is  a  water-wheel. 
And  your  translator  bets  one  can  actually  be  found  in  Edo  period  kyoka. 


With  checkpoints 
causing  us  so  much  grief, 
River  of  Tears, 


If  the  checkpoints 
are  causing  so  much  grief 
you  cry,  you 'd  best 

Get  thy  Twin  Rivers  to  run 
to  the  Capital  for  redress! 


Why  not  just  keep  running 
to  Kyoto  -  grab  their  ears! 


84 


mono-omou  namida  ya  yagate  mitsusegawa  hito  o  shizumuru  fuchi  to  naruramu  saigyo 
thing-thinking  tears!/:  eventually  mitsuse  river  person+acc  sink/drown  depth/pool-into  become 

Tears  of  longing  pool,  and  by  and  by,  leave  one  in  a  fix 
deep  enough  a  man  can  drown  and  cross  the  River  Styx. 

This  waka  is  well-known  but  the  odd  mix  of  metaphor  is  oddly  ignored 
because  Saigyo  is  known  as  a  great  waka  poet  and  not  as  what  your 
translator  finds  him  to  be,  namely,  the  King  of  metaphor  and  Emperor  of 
trope.  He  crossed  figures  of  speech  as  easily  as  the  Tenmei  kyoka  poets. 
Who  but  Saigyo  could  grow  a  river  that  must  be  crossed  by  the  dead  and 
have  someone  drown  in  a  deep  spot  in  it,  or  what  might  seem  to  be  it  but 
isn't  really.  Mitsu,  part  of  the  name  of  the  river,  Mitsusegawa,  is  a 
homophone  for  "to  deepen." 

ima  wa  tote  namida  no  umi  ni  kaji  o  tae  oki  ni  wazurau  kesa  no  funabito  go-kyogoku  1 169-1206 
now-as-for  and/say,  tear-ocean-in  rudder+acc  end/broken/lost,  offshore  distressed  morning's  boatman 

Sailor  on  a  sea  of  tears  at  dawn  and  what 's  more, 
rudder  broken  off,  now,  I  cannot  come  ashore! 

So,  now,  we  are  at  sea.  This  is  the  love  lament  equivalent  of  being  up  shit- 
creek  without  a  paddle.  Again,  we  see  a  waka  with  a  metaphor  ridiculous 
enough  in  its  complexity  to  be  a  kyoka  that  deserves  to  be  famous  but  isn't. 

kimi  nakute  hitori  nuru  yo  no  tokoshima  wa  yosuru  namida  zo  iya  shigerinaru  anon.^/K  1310 
you/lord/dear  not,  alone  sleepng  night's  bed-island-as4  approach  tears+emph  yuck/emph.  frequent  be 

J>  The  Castaway 's  Lament  J> 

Without  my  love 
marooned  at  night,  my  bed 
becomes  an  isle; 

Tears  in  waves  erode  the  shore, 
I'll  be  swimming  in  a  while. 

Desperately  kicking  to  keep  this  masterpiece  afloat,  the  translator  first 
tried:  Without  you,  dear,  marooned  each  night  upon  my  Island  Bed,  / 
buffeted  by  tears,  I  shake:  You  '11  find  me  swimming  soon  .  .  .  or  dead.  The 
loss  in  translation  (sleep=nuru=wet(yourself)  and  tears=nami=>  namida= 
waves)  was  too  much,  so  the  poem  was  exiled  to  the  notes  until  the 
isle/while  rhyme  brought  it  a  reprieve.  The  swimming,  not  in  the  original, 
makes  up  in  part  for  what  can  not  be  ferried  across  the  linguistic  divide. 


85 


sayuruyo  ni  otsureba  koru  namida  koso  makuranomoto  no  arare  narikere  shunzei  1 1 14- 
chilled  night-on  falling  freeze  tears  esp.  pillow/bed's  base's  hailstones  become  -1204 

On  a  cold  night  when  any  Tears  that  drop,  freeze  in  the  air, 
Look  around  my  Pillow  and  you  will  see  Hailstones  there. 

I  do  not  know  exactly  when  my  iced-up  tears  thawed  out; 
But  I,  for  one,  can  tell  -  Spring  came  early,  beyond  doubt. 

when  tear-ice  breaks/broke-apart  year-within-in+emph.  spring-as-4  arrives-ought  1 1 55- 
itsnshika  to  namida  no  kori  uchitokete  toshinouchi  ni  zo  haru  wa  tatsubeki  jien  -1225 

Shunzei,  above,  had  spectacular  icicle  tears  as  well.  If  only  slush  (mizore) 
can  be  found,  he  will  have  covered  all  the  salient  tears  of  winter.  Jien's 
spring  "within-the-year=fos/zz'-fto-wc/z/"  poem,  madder  than  first  apparent, 
reverses  the  usual  causality:  his  thawing  tears  gauge  the  calendar  rather 
than  following  it.  Both  of  the  above  come  from  the  Fuboku  anthology 
which  did  not  forget  Saigyo's  lachrymal  masterpiece  which  I'll  couple 
with  one  by  Izumi  Shikibu  and  chase  both  down  by  something  that  is  more 
lyrical  than  romantic  to  end  what  amounts  to  a  survey  of  waka  tears: 

yoshi  saraba  namida  no  ike  ni  mi  o  nashite  kokoro  no  mama  ni  tsuki  o  yadosamu  saigyo 
well  be-it-if  tear-pond-into  body/self  becoming  heart/will-as  moon+acc  lodge-would-not-do! 

In  that  case,  I'll  turn  myself  into  a  pond  of  tears, 
And  put  up  the  Moon,  when  and  where  I  please! 

As  my  tears  like  dew-drops  beyond  all  telling  cling, 
I  may  have  to  wear  my  pearls  for  camouflaging! 

numbers  are-not  (beyond  count)  tears'  dew+acc  wearing+emph.  gem-adornment  add+emph  think 
kazu  naranu  namida  no  tsuyu  o  kakete  dani  tama  no  kazari  o  soemu  to  zo  omou  shikibu 

Saigyo's  poem  is  loosely  translated.  The  translator  has  tighter  readings 
elsewhere  and  feels  free  to  play  here.  Shikibu  (d.1030)  does  not  actually 
mention  camouflage,  but  her  readers  would  have  immediately  understood 
that  was  what  she  meant.  Look  at  the  gloss.  Would  you  have  gotten  it? 

ft£/5^5  fry<Dftfyit<D'3hZ&J$>  fflfWo^  Afi*<  bt2  5fc* 
naki  kaeru  kari  no  namida  no  tsumoru  o  ya  nawashiro  mizu  ni  hito  wa  sekuramu  yoshitada 
cry/calling  geese'tears'  building-up+emph.  (rice)paddies  water-in  people-as-for  dam-up 

And  off  they  fly,  crying  as  they  go  -  could  it  be  our  paddies 
are  made  by  damming  streams  of  tears  left  by  those  geese? 


After  scores  of  love  poems,  natural(?)  tears  must  be  a  relief.  Naki  kaeru 
might  also  mean  "frogs  cry"  but  that's  a  long-shot.  Now,  finally,  a  kyoka: 

wasurareshi  otoko-hideri  no  waga  yado  ni  namida  no  ame  no  saritote  wa  mata  sakazuki  r 
forgotten,  men-drought's  my  lodge-in  tears-of  rain  anyway  once-again     komendo  1783? 

Love  &  Rain 

Long  forgotten,  I  suffer  at  home  from  a  drought  of  men; 
Not  that  I  lack  for  water,  with  my  endless  rain  of  tears! 

One  Chinese  character,  Hr,  suffices  to  show  that  a  large  subject,  Love,  is 
"approached"  or  "drawn  together"  with  various  things.  Above,  it  is 
rendered  "&."  "A  drought  of  men,"  referring  to  locales  where  the  men  are 
all  away  for  seasonal  employment,  is  found  in  Issa's  haiku  of  this  time. 
The  kyoka  poet  is  a  man,  doing  what  is  common  in  all  genre  of  Japanese 
literature  and  song,  writing  from  the  perspective  of  a  woman. 

ki  konyoku  wakashu-gurui  no  haru  asobi  medetashi  rd  no  yare  haji  shirazu  getsudoken 
spirit  persistently  wakashu-crazinss/frenzy's  sprng  play  jyfl/propitus  age's  hooray  shame  knws-nt 

X g  M £ tAT o ^ f±  U t tUf 
P  My  annual  New  Year  Toast  to  Jizori  P 

What  could  bring  more  joy  to  spring  than  having  a  wakashu  fling! 
Old  age  knows  no  shame,  hooray!  So,  party  on,  persist,  be  gay! 


Let 's  keep  it  up  -  that  wakashu  frenzy  we  call  spring  play! 
Be  joyful  &  free  (be  thee):  old  Age  knows  no  shame,  I  say! 

hyotan  to  totemo  ukareba  wakashu  no  shiri  kara  koma  o  horidashi  ni  seyo  getsudoken 
gourd  with  very  excited/carried-away-if  youngcrowd's  butt- from  pony  dig-up  do!  c.1700 

When  Jizori  wrote  that  if  monteblancs  could  charm  ponies  from  gourds 
with  magic,  the  same  effort  should  bring  him  a  wakashu,  I  replied 

So  long  as  we  're  thinking  out  of  the  gourd,  wouldn  'tyou 
rather  have  that  pony  dug  from  the  ass  of  a  wakashu? 

Homosexual  love  was  one  place  kyoka  went  where  waka  feared  to  tread. 
Haikai  is  another  matter.  Haikai  is  full  of  it.  But  early  ink-verse  haikai 
was  seldom  personal.  These  poems  going  to  a  friend  are,  in  that  sense,  part 


87 


of  the  waka  tradition  which,  correctly  understood,  includes  kyoka. 
Friendship  is  not  identical  with  love,  but  to  have  put  the  first  of  the  above 
poems  in  the  Sex  Chapter  would  have  been  wrong  and  we  do  not  have  a 
chapter  for  friendship.  And  the  second  poem?  A  wakashu,  or  gay  youth's 
behind  was  the  most  desired  derriere  in  Japan.  Getsudoken,  who  seems  to 
have  been  bi-sexual,  plays  with  that  object  in  an  exceedingly  good-natured 
way.  Gourds,  by  the  way,  are  the  Sinosphere's  equivalent  of  the  hat  from 
which  we  would  pull  our  rabbits  and  release  our  doves. 

maotoko  ga  kubekiyoi  tote  seto  niyuki  itazura  okata  kumo  no  su  o  toru  getsudoken 
male-lover/gigolo  comes-ought-evening  because,  backdoor-to  going 
prank-loving-palace-lady  spider-web+acc.  removes 

That  night  a  lover? 
Out  the  backdoor  this  joking  lady  heads 
to  carefully  remove  all  of  her  rival's  spider  webs! 

The  lady's  man  Sanekata  seven  hundred  years  earlier  kidded  a  woman  for 
failing  to  guess  he  was  coming.  If  the  spider  did  not  predict  his  coming, 
then  she  must  not  be  sincere.  That  was  in  a  retort  to  a  harsh  letter  from  the 
lady.  Here,  Getsudoken  would  seem  to  be  imagining  life  in  the  Imperial 
court.  Rather  than  purloining  the  message,  cut  the  telegraph  lines.  Nothing 
is  said  about  a  rival,  but  with  many  women  sleeping  with  few  -  sometimes 
just  one  -  men,  that  is  a  given.  Unlike  his  poems  for  Jizori,  this  is  a 
typical,  purely  comic  work. 

-mm  L,m&frft%>k&&fcn  5  o  9  n^o^ti^-f  ?&m«  0 

hitoyo  neshi  into  ga  katami  to  omou  ni  wa  utsurijirami  mo  tsubusare  mo  sezu  meshimori 
one-night  slept  sis/sweetheart's  keepsake-as  think-as-for  caught-lice  even  squash+emph  will-not 

The  only  keepsake  from  our  one-night  stand,  how  nice  .  . 
-  thinking  of  her,  I  prefer  not  to  pop  my  pubic  lice! 

This  kyoka  by  Tenmei  kyoka-master  Meshimori  was  caught  in  Kaneko 
Jitsuei's  introduction  to  a  collection  of  Shokusanjin's  poems  (shokusankashu). 
It  has  more  in  common  with  Marvel's  flea  that  mixed  the  lover  and  his 
mistress's  blood,  than  Issa's  fleas,  adorable  because,  "because  they  slept 
with  me"  or  Getsudoken' s  more  personal  work.  It  is  suitably  outrageous, 
but  hardly  novel.  It  is,  however,  improved  by  the  (male)  poet's  name  Isl 
IS^,  literally  Inn  wench.  Such  a  'wench'  could  be  so  helpful  (foot- 
washing,  sewing,  cooking,  massage,  and  sometimes  .  .  .  )  that  a  traveler 
might  indeed  feel  more  than  sentimental  about  a  one-night  stand.  It  is  here 
to  show  that  19c  poets  could  write  in  the  simple  style  of  Getsudoken.  But 
how  successful  were  they  in  making  it  personal? 


ukauka  to  nagaki  yosugara  akugarete  tsuki  ni  hanage  no  kazu  ya  yomaren  fushimatsu  no  kaka 
carelessly  long  night- through  longing,  moon-by/(light)in  nose-hairs'  number+emph  read-would 

 (I)  

Lolling  about  the  whole  night  long  I'm  smitten  by  the  moon; 

Handsome  will  count  the  hair  in  my  nose  and  leave  me  in  a  ruin. 
 (2)  

Forgetting  yourself  the  whole  night  long,  besotted  by  the  moon 

soon  she 'll  read  your  nostril  hair  and  you  will  play  her  tune! 
 (3)  

Lolling  about  from  dusk  to  dawn  in  love  that's  how  it  goes, 

In  the  moonlight,  one  can  count  every  hair  within  a  nose! 
 (4)  

Putsing  away  a  whole  night  in  adoration?  Take  care, 
in  moon-light,  the  girls  can  read  your  nostril  hair! 

 (5)  

Absentmindedly,  all  through  the  night,  admiring 
the  harvest  moon  can  count  your  nostril  hairs. 


The  last,  by  Rokuo  Tanaka,  I  deparsed. 


Nostril-hair-counting  means  paying  rapt  attention  to  one's  superior,  or  in  a 
mistress's  case,  one's  sugar-daddy.  Why  so  many  readings?  Because  the 
identity  of  the  counter  is  ambiguous  if  not  contradictory.  A  moon-viewer 
looks  up  at  the  beloved  heavenly  body  from  the  lowly  perspective  of  the 
hair-reader.  On  the  other  hand,  moon  light  shines  down  or  rather  up  the 
nostrils,  as  looking  up  we  lean  back.  Reading  1)  assumes  the  poet 
Fushimatsu  no  Kaka,  or  The  Unkempt  Wife,  one  of  the  top  two  female 
Tenmei  era  ky  oka-masters,  is  the  protagonist  and  the  moon  a  fair  man,  the 
man  in  the  moon  £tj§  {katsurao)  was  considered  to  be  dangerously  good- 
looking  lady's  man.  The  ruin  is  purely  rhyme  -  but  doesn't  staying  up  all 
night  do  that  to  you?  Reading  2)  assumes  the  poem  is  addressed  to  the 
poet's  husband,  Akera  Kanko,  for  male  poets  tended  to  stay  up  all  night 
moon-viewing.  The  language  iyosugurd)  can  not  help  but  allude  to 
Basho's  well-known  haiku  of  all-night  (yomosugura)  moon- vie  wing  while 
circling  a  pond,  and  thus  kiddingly  wonders  if  the  nature  of  her  husband 
Akera  Kanko  of  Revealing-loin-cloth  fame  and  his  friends'  moon- vie  wing 
was  not  less  pure  than  that  of  the  famous  aesthete.  Reading  3)  is  left 
personless  but  based  on  a  guess  the  poet  recalls  moon-viewing  with  her 
husband.  Reading  4)  is  the  preferred  reading.  The  moon,  like  Autumn 
leaves,  was  an  excuse  for  men  to  go  out  and  paint  the  town  and  Kanko 's 
cool  kaka,  ever  the  sophisticate  in  the  good  and  not  bad  meaning  of  the 
word,  was  cleverly  warning  him  not  to  paint  himself  into  a  corner  with 


89 


some  coquette.  Reading  5)  is  by  Rokuo  Tanaka  (2006).  His  translation 
does  not  quite  match  his  preface:  "she  is  bantering  with  a  flirting  man" 
but  Tanaka  has  done  something  fascinating  here.  His  "harvest  moon"  -  the 
unspecified  moon  is  by  convention  that  of  mid-fall  -  serves  as  the  object 
of  admiration  and  a  seeing  subject,  in  turn.  That  is,  he  reproduces  a 
Japanese-style  pivot-word,  though,  to  be  fair  to  the  poet,  the  original  does 
not  require  one  to  ignore  grammar.  In  the  end,  none  of  the  five  readings 
captures  the  fine  way  the  Unkempt  Wife  plays  with  "moon  and  blossoms  " 
{tsuki  ni  hand),  a  combination  suggesting  the  lifelong  aesthetic  pursuit  of 
the  poet  (favoring  readings  that  it  is  addressed  to  her  husband),  before  the 
would-be  blossoms  become  a  nose  for  the  hair  that  follows.  But  the 
biggest  problem  is  sexing  the  moon. 

Forgetting  myself  the  whole  night  long  I'm  stuck  on  one  so  fair, 
The  moon,  my  Laurel  Man,  must  have  read  my  nostril  hair! 

Forgetting  yourself  the  whole  night  long  stuck  on  one  so  fair; 
My  man,  beware,  your  Luna  reads  your  every  nostril  hair! 

Which  is  it?  My  respondent  favors  the  Moon-as-Katsurao,  which  is  to  say 
the  Laurel  Man.  "Laurel"  is  a  traditional  translation.  The  katsuragi  (says 
Wiki)  has  but  two  species,  the  sole  members  of  a  monotypic  family  native 
to  Japan  and  China.  In  other  words,  it  is  no  "laurel."  It  has  similar  leaves 
but  they  are  opposite  not  alternate,  and  boasts  bright  autumn  color,  "a  mix 
of  bright  yellow,  pink  and  orange-red. "  And,  those  leaves  emit  a  scent 
"resembling  burnt  brown  sugar  or  cotton  candy"  (ditto).  Now,  color  and 
scent  were  the  words  of  traditional  Japanese  eros.  Take  these  two  kyoka, 
one  written  almost  a  hundred  years  earlier  by  Getsudoken  in  place  of  a 
woman  ^C^/N'i  *9  X  cfc^Tx^/S  sent  where  he  does  not  say,  and  the  other 
by  another  Tenmei  era  female  poet,  or  someone  using  a  female  name,  for 
one  never  knows  unless  the  poet  is  famous.  First,  Getsudoken  as  a  woman: 

amarija  no  aki  no  yo-goto  no  irogonomi  tsuki  no  katsura  no  otoko  yokeredo  c.1700 
too  much  is's  fall  nights-every's  color-taste  (prurient  interst)  moon's  ktsra  man  good-but 

There  is  too  much,  just  too  much  sex  on  the  mind  these  autumn  nights 
Not  that  we  don 't  find  him,  the  Man  in  the  Moon  a  pretty  sight. 


Night  after  night  in  fall,  there 's  just  too  much  sex  to  ignore! 
That  is  not  to  say  Katsura,  our  moon  man,  is  not  to  die  for! 


Night  after  night,  you  men  ruin  Fall  with  all  your  dirty  passion, 
Though  I  must  say  Katsura  does  turn  me  on  in  fashion! 


As  always,  Getsudoken  as  easy  with  vernacular  as  any  Tenmei  era  poet,  is 
in  a  class  of  his  own.  The  slangy  "sex  on  the  mind"  and  "to  die  for"  reflect 
his  unusual  informality  rare  even  in  supposedly  free  kyoka.  And  now  a 
poem  from  the  representative  Tenmei  kyoka  collection: 

hitori  ne  no  kacho  no  uchi  e  sayo  fukete  katsurao  no  hairu  wa  muenryo  kishijo  1785 
single-sleep's  mosquito-net's  inside-to  night  late  katsura  man's  entering-as-for  impolite 

Coming  right  into  the  mosquito  net  of  one  who  sleeps  alone 
and  late  at  night,  moon-man  Katsurao  is  most  impolite! 

Does  this  settle  the  reading  on  Kaka's  poem?  No.  When  the  moon  was 
stripped  of  its  cloudy  garments  and  called  "the  beauty  of  the  world"  for 
not  having  to  wear  make-up,  this  translator  also  made  him/her  a  woman. 
At  the  time,  Edo  was  changing  from  a  bisexual  to  a  monosexual  notion  of 
beauty.  Rokuo  Tanaka  definitely  chose  Luna  over  the  Laurel  man.  "Men 
may  spend  the  whole  night  gazing  absently  at  the  full  moon.  This  looks  as 
though  the  moon  is  teasing  them,  just  as  women  can  tease  them.  "  So  far  so 
good  (though  one  wonders  if  men  have  ever  really  done  that),  but  when  he 
continues,  referring  to  her  more  famous  poem  protesting  her  husband's 
long  stay  in  Yoshiwara  "This  interpretation  leads  the  reader  to  an 
understanding  of  Fushimatsu  no  Kaka's  poignant  criticism  (written  from 
the  point  of  view  of  a  woman  who  is  not  free  to  leave  the  house  at  night)  of 
men  drifting  in  the  Floating  World  of  pleasure  and  indulgence  all  night 
long,  "  I  must  protest.  There  are  indeed  reports  of  moon- viewing  parties 
held  by  Tenmei  kyoka  poets  that  lasted  for  days,  but  women,  especially 
poets  married  to  poets,  were  usually  not  excluded.  It  is  premature  to  judge 
this  moon-viewing  poem  to  be  such  a  lament.  Speaking  of  premature, 

tsuki  no  uchi  ni  katsura  no  hito  o  omou  to  ya  ame  ni  namida  no  soide  furamu 
moon-within  katsura(tree)'s  man+acc  think-of!/:  rain- in  tears  fall 

I  think  of  you,  my  Man  in  the  Moon  with  his  katsura  tree 
When  it  rains  I  feel  your  tears,  falling  with  the  rain  for  me. 

My  Katsura  boy,  my  man  in  the  moon,  I  think  of  you  - 
When  it  rains,  know  that  my  tears  are  falling,  too! 

Your  translator  thought  this  10c  waka  by  Lady  Ise  (fl.  930)  was  one  more 
of  her  clever  love  poems  until  he  learned  she  had  a  son  with  the  Emperor 
and  remained  in  good-standing  with  her  Empress,  but  that  son  was  sent 
away  to  stay  to  the  West  of  Kyoto.  The  name  of  that  place?  Katsura.  And, 
now,  yet  another  katsura  pun  from  c.1700.  It  is  not  about  love  but  a  lover. 


91 


a£z  «o  jo  wo  fewfo'  no  katsura  no  naga-kamoji  onna  to  mo  mietsn  otoko  narihira  getsudoken 
autmn  night's  moon's  katsura-treeMig's  long  false-tress  woman-as-evn  appears  man  is/narihra 

Toupee  or  not  toupee?  That's  a  question  for  a  Whig.  But  wearing  a  tress! 
I  guess  Mr.  Moon  is  really  Narihira!  -  What  girlishness! 

The  original  is  great.  The  tree  identified  with  Katsurao,  the  man  in  the 
moon,  is  a  katsura:  so  is  a  wig.  Getsudoken  affirms  that  with  a  redundant 
naga-kamoji,  or  "long  false  tress,"  simultaneously  corrupting  it,  for  men 
may  wear  toupees  but  only  women  wear  tresses,  especially  long  ones.  Did 
Narihira  ever  resort  to  costume?  Who  knows.  But  a  18c  senryu  does 
equate  a  sea-cucumber  with  the  old-fashioned  man  (mukashi  otoko)  of  the 
Tales  of  Ise,  modeled  on  Narihira.  With  Japan  at  peace,  the  samurai  class 
competed  to  be  more  macho  than  thou.  A  man  whose  raison  d'  etre  was 
skirt-chasing,  who  would  do  anything  to  conquer  a  woman's  heart,  was 
despised  as  spineless.  The  way  the  verb  nari  (is)  puns  into  the  name 
Narihira  to  clinch  it  is  a  classic  Tenmei  kyoka  trick  ninety  years  early! 


manaita  no  tsura  yaseshitaru  koi  no  mi  o  kiri  kizumitemo  awan  to  zo  omou  nakamichi 
chopping-board-face  thinned  love/longing's  body+acc.  chopping-even  meet-would+emph  think 

~  Love  &  Chopping  Boards  ~ 

On  my  face  as  flat  as  a  chopping  hoard,  I'd  make  mince 
of  my  own  love-sick  body  if  it  would  only  help  us  meet! 

Longing,  or  koi  is  homophonous  with  something  that  might  be  minced  on 
a  board,  a  carp.  That  fish  lost  in  translation  was  replaced  with  meet=meat. 
We  shall  let  this  poem  and  the  next  stand  for  miscellaneous  18- 19c  kyoka 
love  poems.  Three  or  four  score  may  be  found  in  the  740-pp  monster,  but 
the  following  is  not.  It  was  just  found  in  a  dictionary  of  kyoka. 

hazukashi  ya  fude  motsu  sube  mo  shira^kami  o  marumete  hito  ni  buttsukeru  to  wa  asakusa  kansoku? 
embarrassing!/:  brush  hold  skill  knows-not=blank-paper+acc  rolling-up  person-at  throw/hit-as-for 

MM <DM  t  V  ^  £r  on  illiterate  love 

Taking  the  paper  and  crumpling  it  up  into  a  ball  to  throw 
at  the  beloved -why?  She  couldn 't  write  if  you  must  know! 

Love  abashed!  Lacking  skill  with  a  brush  must  be 
why  she  crumpled  up  the  paper  to  throw  it  at  me 


Kidding  re.  a  lack  of  writing  skills  comes  with  high  literacy.  The  pivot 
pun  on  not  knowing  =>  white/blank  is  good  and  the  idea  excellent: 
crumpled  up  paper  was  common  enough  in  Japanese  poetry  but  this  is  the 
first  such  that  is  blank -Has  the  medium  ever  so  clearly  been  the  message? 


waga  omou  hito  eda  ta-oru  mono  naraba  yubi  o  mo  kiriteyari  ume-no-hana  tenchi  genko 
my  loving  person  branch  hand-break  one  is-if,  finger+acc  even  cutting  give  plum  blossom 

If  the  one  I  love  should  break  a  blooming  limb  for  me,  his  point 
known,  I'll  be  his  sugar  plum  and  pledge  my  baby  finger  joint! 

Kyoka  of  the  pleasure  quarters  are  under-represented  in  translation 
because  Yoshiwara  was  a  world  of  its  own  and  most  poems  on  it  must  be 
presented  as  part  of  a  longer  treatment  to  entertain.  This,  captioned  Love 
via  Plants  it?  fit  ^25,  is  introduced  because  most  readers  already  know 
courtesans  sometimes  gave  clients  the  last  joint  of  their  baby  finger  as 
pledges  and  some  will  know  breaking  off  blooming  branches  was  standard 
idiom  for  taking  a  spray  for  viewing  back  at  home  or  presenting.  If  you 
catch  the  final  pun:  the  yari=giving  also  sounds  like  spear  which,  together 
with  plum,  ume,  is  a  variety  of  the  same,  and  you  already  have  it.  Also,  the 
poem  is  a  good  front  act  for  the  hard  to  classify  masterpiece  that  follows: 

M^^^jJimM(Dm^hnmn^^m^hWbn^  i^momoko 

toji-naru  urizanegao  no  kimi  naraba  yubi  wa  sara  nari  ude  mo  kirabaya  c.  1730 
eaast-temple-is-melonseed-face's  lord/sweetheart  is-if  finger-as-for  of-course  arms  too  cut-would 

Love  &  Melons  f    HI  ^ 

Melon-seed  face  of  Temple  East,  with  solstice  coming,  something  begs; 
Forget  the  fingers  -  in  your  case,  I'd  lop  off  my  arms  and  legs! 

A  melon-seed  face  was  oval,  beautiful  for  a  woman.  No  solstice  is 
mentioned,  but  the  nickname  for  Kyoto's  temple  tfcEEfflll^F  Kyoogokoku- 
ji,  Toji  (East  Temple)  sounds  like  winter  solstice;  hence,  toji-kabocha,  or 
winter-solstice  squash/pumpkin/melon.  On  this  date,  we  find  haikai  feting 
the  roly-poly  dharuma  -  the  world  starts  to  roll  back  up.  The  symbolic 
honing  down  to  the  spiritual  core  of  winter  and  identification  of  beauty 
with  roundness  in  the  Sinosphere  reach  their  hyperlogical  conclusion. 
Chances  are  there  were  limbless  wooden  dolls  (typical  in  Japan)  on  sale  at 
said  temple.  The  kyoka  was  in  a  section  devoted  to  metaphors  of  love  but 
might  have  been  better  in  the  winter  section.  The  Pleasure  Quarters  is  not 
mentioned,  but  removing  body  parts  to  prove  one's  love  -  once  something 
only  done  at  the  funeral  of  the  great  -  did  come  from  there. 


93 


P  Love  metaphor  and  water.  Two  full  (two-page)  chapters  -  Marine  Metaphor 
Meets  Land-locked  Culture  (ours)  -  in  the  740-page  Monster  treat  the  impossibility 
of  translating  sea-related  metaphor  and  allegory,  mostly  with  examples  from  the 
Tales  of  Ise,  some  poems  of  which  were  literally  left  half-blank  by  a  leading 
translator!  Readers  with  particular  interest  in  the  problems  of  translation  might  enjoy 
it,  others  might  not.  This  was  the  final  note  of  the  chapter  but  1  changed  my  mind. 


h~£(D-tfo£  b(OL6'<\^fobte<  K  ^tyh<DZy\(D\^j^hiy  /M?/W 

ama  no  sumu  sato  no  shirube  ni  aranaku  ni  uramin  to  nomi  hito  no  iuran  ono  no  komachi  kks727 
fisher/sea-harvesters  live  hamlet's/s'  guide-as  am-not  though  begrudge[=bay-see]  is  only/all  people  say 

~  a  littoral  complaint  about  complaints  ~ 

/  am  no  guide  to  seafolk  hamlets  -  so  why  such  rancor, 
When  they  ask  and  I  do  not  show  them  to  the  shore? 

Who  knows  if  Komachi  was  what  Usanians  call  a  prick-teaser  or,  like  the  English 
Virgin  Queen,  a  hole  short.  Regardless,  it  hurts  not  to  lose  the  fine  yet  simply 
expressed  wit  of  someone  called  the  Sappho  of  Japan.  The  wit  depends  upon  the 
untranslatable  4-syllabet  homophonic  pun  where  uramin  means  both  ffiJH  h  =  bay- 
see-would  [like  to  see  the  bay]  and  ^h-ki  —  begrudge-would.  She  laments  that  is 
"all  a  hito=person/people/you/my  love  say  about/tell"  her.  I  feel  "you"  beats  "him" 
and  they  also  works,  but  such  details  matter  little  (my  they/them  might  be  changed  to 
you)  compared  to  the  fact  that  her  complaint  of  being  fed  up  with  the  resentment  of 
allegedly  numerous  yet  never  indulged  suitors,  is  no  longer  expressed  as  a  witty  pun. 
I  followed  the  others  in  changing  the  bay  into  the  shore,  because  the  male  heart,  like 
a  mangrove  pen  (my  metaphor)  hopes  to  land  upon  and  root  into  the  female  shore 
and,  in  English,  the  ulteriorlbackside/wrong-side-of-the  tracks  sense  of  the  Japanese 
bay  is  missing,  anyway  {Am  I  a  guide  to  the  seafolk  hamlets!  Why  keep  crying  /  that 
I'll  pay  for  not  showing  you  clam-bake  bay?).  While  Komachi's  waka  is  among  the 
Kokinshu  love  poems  and  not  in  the  dedicated  haikai  chapter,  with  other  "eccentric 
poems"  (Cr),  many  of  which  have  the  kyoka  feeling,  //only  I  could  mimic  in  English 
the  way  she  turns  a  noun  and  verb  (orthographically  invisible,  above)  into  another 
verb  after  the  feisty  denial  which  builds  up  the  complex  metaphor,  you  would  see 
this  is  as  good  an  example  of  mad  poem  technique  as  any  by  kyoka  master 
Shokusanjin.    //...*  What  follows  is  from  the  Tales  of  Ise.  "Mc."  is  McCullough. 

iwamayori  ouru  mirume  shi  tsurenaku  wa  shiohi  shiomichi  kai  mo  arinamu 
crags-'tween  frm  cover  sea=see=weed  vainly-as4  ebbtide  hightide  value/shells  evn  are!? 

Out  on  the  reef,  who  can  say  but  seaweed  may  prove  hard  to  get. 
Still,  tides  rise  and  fall,  a  man  might  find  some  shellfish  yet! 

I  am  unsure  of  Mc.'s  reading  "Who  is  to  say?  /  If  we  continue  /  To  see  one  another,  / 
Something  may  come  of  it.  "  [+info.  given  in  endnote],  which  I  follow,  but  sure  Harris 
is  too  negative:  "To  the  murky  weeds  /  growing  in  among  the  crags  /  nothing  seems 
worthwhile:  /  Ebbing  tides  nor  high  tides  full  /  bring  no  presents  from  the  sea! " 

*The  above  was  a  teasing  woman  leading  a  man  on.  And  here  is  his  response: 


namida  ni  zo  nuretsutsu  shiboru  yo  no  hito  no  tsuraki  kokoro  wa  sode  no  shizuku  ka 
tears-by  soaking-while  wring  world's  people's  hurting  hearts-as-for  sleeves'  drops? 


So  are  these  tears  from  a  suffering  heart  that  soak  my  sleeves 
Just  so  many  drops  of  brine  -  Wring  'em  out  and  all  is  fine? 


Mc.  finally  jumps  to  life  here,  "Wringing  my  tear-drenched  sleeves,  / 1  wonder  if 
perhaps  /  Your  icy  heart  /  Has  been  transformed  /  Into  those  drops  of  moisture.  "  H., 
as  always  [in  an  overly  elaborate  reading],  "So  great  are  my  tears  /  that  no  wringing 
drives  them  out:  /  Should  the  bitterness  /  that  you  brew  within  your  heart  /  flow  in 
drops  from  off  my  sleeve?  "  Let  me  put  in  a  word  for  the  sea.  Namida,  tears,  begins 
with  a  homophone  of  waves,  nami,  creating  a  link  to  the  earlier  chain  of  associations. 
Hence  my  brine.  The  original  may  deserve  a  more  aphoristic  reading:  So  would  the 
pangs  of  love  that  humans  feel  be  but  this  -  /  drops  of  brine,  wrung  from  sleeves 
soaked  by  our  tears?  -  &  translation,  what  is  it? 

*  I  got  a  bit  off-track  here,  for  the  association  of  tears  and  brine  may  be  found  in 
English,  too.  I  had  a  hidden  agenda,  which  was  to  show  that,  with  a  little  effort, 
poetry  could  be  translated  so  as  to  add  wit  to,  rather  than  subtract  it  from  a  tale.  The 
metaphor  in  the  following  Kokinshu  waka  by  Okikaze  translates  better  than  most. 


an  made  no  katami  tote  koso  todomekeme  namida  ni  ukabu  mokuzu  narikeri  okikaze 
meet-until's  namesake  for  kept,  tears  in  floating  seaweed/algae  became!  kks  #745 

Dallying  with  a  closely  guarded  daughter,  someone  came  out  to  say  her  parents  were 
calling.  She  rushed  inside  leaving  behind  the  overskirt  she  had  taken  off.  Returning  it, 


The  translation  on  the  left  (in  my  centering.)  is  by  Rodd  and  Henkenius  from  whom  I 
borrowed  the  term  "overskirt"  for  the  ornate  and  bulky  train  that  we  can  well  imagine 
a  woman  taking  off  to  be  at  ease.  The  "rope  of  seaweed"  is  brilliant.  I  have  eaten  mo, 
which  is  sold  soaking  in  light  rice-vinegar.  It  does  seem  to  link  in  a  somewhat  rope- 
like manner.  I  use  algal,  for  mo  doesn't  make  me  think  of  the  "duck"  in  the 
dictionary's  first  offering,  and  trail  fits  the  idea  of  a  train  well.  If  you  wish  to  make  it 
a  duckweed  trail,  instead,  please  change  "afloat"  to  bobbing  and  it  will  add  some 
humor  to  the  metaphor.  Regardless,  we  see  here  both  an  outlandish  kyoka-class 
tear+memento  hyperbole  and  marine  metaphor  utterly  exotic  to  English,  despite  its 
father  or  motherland  being  an  island.  Seriously,  I  never  cease  to  be  amazed  with  the 
degree  to  which  Japanese  poetry,  even  while  the  capital  of  culture  was  in  Nara  and 
Kyoto,  both  inland  cities,  kept  the  sea.  While  the  desert  religions  of  North  Africa 
and  continental  influence  largely  removed  the  same  from  the  English  consciousness, 
neither  jungle-born  Buddhism  nor  Chinese  literature  did  anything  similar  to  the 
Japanese.  In  English  literature,  the  sea  is  all  about  foreign  lands.  It  is  an  outside 
rather  than  internal  or  domestic  presence.  *  Or,  did  I  exaggerate? 


this  souvenir  left 
behind  "till  we  meet  again  " 
it  seems  this  trailing 

skirt  has  become  a  rope  of 
seaweed  in  a  sea  of  tears 


The  silky  train 
you  left  behind  -  'Until 
we  meet  again, ' 

Became  an  algal  trail, 
floating  on  a  sea  of  tears. 


Mad  Sex,  mostly  by  Getsuddken  the  poet  who  loved  it 


shinimasu  to  iute  yosugara  daite-nete  kesa  no  wakare  wa  yomijigaeri  ka  getsudoken 
BU  "(i)  die"  saying,  all-night  hug-sleeping  this-morning's  separation-as-for  yellow-spring-return? 

A  night  spent  in  embrace  'dying!  dying! '  At  dawn,  instead 
of just  a  parting,  we  return  from  the  Land  of  the  Dead! 

Getsudoken  may  be  the  best  3 1  -mora  poet  of  sex  Japan  has  or  will  ever 
have,  for  he  lived  in  a  peaceful  age  before  the  upper  classes  were  tamed  by 
centuries  of  Tokugawa  rule  and  before  sex  was  sorted  out  into  stereotypes 
by  senryu  and  analyzed  to  death  by  science.  14  and  \l-mora  comic  poetry 
of  the  mid- 18c  would  play  with  la  petit  mort  -  children  worried  because 
mom  cried  it  at  night,  monks  in  a  married  sect  found  it  propitious  as  they 
depended  on  funeral  services  for  income,  etc.  -  but  this  poem  with  a 
personal  touch  is  something  else  again.  Contradicting  the  always  sad 
partings  of  waka  with  a  testimonial  of  the  joyful  parting  of  spent  lovers 
through  a  mythology -based  hyperbole!  The  kyoka,  virtually  unknown, 
should  be  as  famous  as  any  by  Tenmei  era  kyoka-master  Shokusanjin! 

misogi  shite  soko  de  kind  no  yo  mo  sugara  imo  to  iro  shiru  kesa  no  hatsuaki 
purfctn(in  a  rivr)  doing  there-by  ystrdy  night-thru  lovr-w/  color/sex  knowng  fall  mornng 

/  went  down  to  the  river.  Yes,  I  did  my  ablutions  rite; 
On  the  first  day  of  Autumn,  after  we  fucked  all  night! 

These  all-night  marathons  are  not  the  most  erotic  of  Getsudoken's  poems; 
but  the  above  may  be  the  most  outrageous  because  abstention  on  the  eve 
of  a  purification  ritual  was  proper.  Still,  if  you  think  things  through 
logically  -  precisely  what  good  mad  poets  do  -  the  opposite  preparation 
makes  as  much  sense  as  the  accepted  one.  Saussure,  after  Wittgenstein, 
noted  how  it  would  have  been  equally  fitting  had  students  of  a  famous 
composer  burned  his  papers  as  divvy  up  and  take  them  home.  He  was 
wrong  to  think  that  proved  significance  was  arbitrary.  Doing  the  usual, 
crawling  rather  than  walking  to  the  river,  maintaining  silence  etc.  would 
do  nothing  for  this  rite.  But  not  getting  down  and  dirty  at  all  or  doing  it  up 
big  would,  logically  speaking,  both  be  metaphysically  appropriate  actions. 

maku  mame  o  iwai  osamete  sono  nochi  ni  kikoshimesaruru  yoru  no  mame  kana  cl700 
scattering  beans+acc  celebration-finishing  that-afterward  eat  night's  bean/s  is/are!/? 

The  beans  thrown,  then,  let  us  not  forget  to  finish  this  rite! 
I'm  partaking  in  some  beans  myself  with  the  wife  tonight. 


Somewhere  in  Italy  they  used  to  strike  pots  and  pans  and  so  forth  while 
shouting  "Out  with  the  bad  and  in  with  the  good! "  as  the  Old  Year  was 
replaced  by  the  New.  In  some  parts,  they  threw  lentils  about,  as  they 
resemble  coins  in  shape.  The  Japanese  bean-throwing  that  Getsudoken  so 
enjoyed  -  he  has  many  poems  related  to  the  rite  -  shares  elements  of  both. 
We  have  a  problem,  however,  with  the  terminology.  This  rite,  or 
ceremony,  if  you  dislike  that  word,  is  often  called  an  "exorcism,"  but  that 
only  covers  the  bad  half,  beans  tossed  out  -  or  at  papa  dressed  up  as  a 
demon,  etc.  (Seeing  the  gleeful  expression  of  the  children  beaning  their 
papas,  makes  me  think  this  practice  should  be  universally  adopted!)  -  and 
completely  neglects  the  good  half,  beans  tossed  inward  and  generally 
eaten  to  be  literally  incorporated.  As  beans,  mame,  were  synonymous  with 
the  female  sex  (or  just  clitoris,  depending  on  context),  the  unabashed  sex- 
loving  poet  found  a  way  to  make  a  plain,  rather  childish  ceremony  the 
prelude  to  an  erotic  finale.  If  I  am  not  mistaken,  on  that  night  every  year, 
Getsudoken  probably  made  a  point  of  eating  his  wife.  Perhaps  he  had  a 
few  drinks  first,  for  I  am  afraid  he  also  wrote  this: 


demon/s  this  eve  nose+acc  stoppng-up  fled+final.  scatter-not  evn  sis/girl's  bean/s'  stnk-frm 


Judging  from  his  other  poems,  this  does  not  reflect  misogyny; 
Getsudoken  was  just  being  his  bawdy  self.  Stinky  food,  itself,  was  an 
exorcist  and  he  simply  could  not  help  punning  on  those  beans.  Besides,  he 
could  be  even  more  outrageous,  as  when  he  either  wrote  a  pop-song  ((i-^3 
ty/bofz.)  or  made  one  into  a  kyoka  to  roast  a  monk  who  died  of  dry- 
kidney  -  a  wasting  disease  caused  by  too  much  sex  (see  Octopussy,  Dry- 
Kidney  &  Blue  Spots  for  a  chapter  on  it)  -  for  his  tsuizen,  or  memorial,  on, 
of  all  times,  the  (death)  anniversary  of  Saint  Nichiren  (omeiko  ni  bobo 
shita  bachiya  atariken  tsui  nijinkyo  de  shinare  marattd).  Why?  That  day 
is  called  omeiko/6  =  #P^Jf#,  homophonous  with  "honorable  cunt."  As  a 
tolerant  Rabelaisian,  he  doubtless  disliked  the  sect,  as  it  was  infamous  for 
vituperative  attacks  on  other  sects.  But,  again,  the  pun  made  him  do  it! 


|^  New  Year's  Eve  j$i 


See  the  demon 
pinch  his  nose,  blink 
&  quickly  flee. 


See  the  devil 
pinch  his  nose,  turn  tail 
and  run  like  hell. 


Her  beans  still  in  hand, 
must  really  pack  a  stink! 


Yet  untossed,  her  beans: 
It  must  be  from  the  smell! 


97 


5  b3Bfyte£tffc&ty%^%X}b(D&ir&&z  b%L^:M&  ise#49 

urawaka  mi  neyoge  ni  miyuru  wakakusa  o  hito  no  musubamu  koto  oshizo  omou 
pretty  young  body  sleep/sex-good-as  looking  yungrass+acc  other  binds  thing  regretful  think 

hatsukusa  no  nado  mezurashiki  kotonoha  zo  uranaku  mono  o  omoikeru  kana  #49 
first-grass's  etc.  rare/sexy  wordleaves+emph.  backless/heartless  things+acc  think-have-been!/? 

Once,  a  man,  seeing  that  his  sister  had  grown  very  attractive,  said, 

Sweet  &  tender  lass,  you  look  like  you  '11  be  good  in  bed 
-  It  hurts  to  think  another  will  tie  Young-grass,  instead! 

to  which  she  replied, 

Why  not  'first-grass! '  That,  too,  is  old,  even  for  a  platitude! 
If  words  are  leaves,  leave  me  be,  brother  rude  in  attitude! 

This  is  not  from  a  book  of  kyoka  but  The  Tales  of  Ise  (c.900),  next  to  the 
Hundred  Poets  One  Poem,  once,  the  most  commonly  read  literary  work. 
My  translation  is  a  bit  too  comic  for  the  original,  the  most  or,  perhaps  only 
infamous  poem  in  said  Tales.  Imperial  Japanese,  like  the  Egyptians,  had  a 
tradition  of  sibling  spouses  but,  by  this  time,  it  was  obsolete.  What  follows 
is  the  same  poem  from  an  early- 17c  kyoka  parody  of  Ise  called  Nise- 
monogatari,  phonetically  speaking,  "Fake  Tales"  published  about  the  time 
Getsudoken  was  born.  It  substitutes  one  distasteful  content  for  another: 

0^fc^<  £{f  f^jt^^fL^A^ii/^  t  £1^1^  nise#49 
tsura  akami  kusage  ni  miyuru  wakakusa  o  hito  no  warawan  koto  oshizo  omou 
face  red  smelly-as  seen  youngrass-at  people  laugh-would  thing  regretfully+emph  think 

hazukashi  ya  nado  atekoto  no  kotonoha  zo  menbokunaku  mo  omoikeru  kana 
embarrassing  how!  etc/sayingsuch  insinuating  words  shameless  even  think!  #49 

Odd  man,  seeing  his  sister  had  a  very  red  face,  said 

Beet  red  face,  alas,  it  means  that  you  '11  be  stinky  there  - 
It  hurts  to  think  some  grin  about  it:  Young-grass,  I  care! 

to  which  she  replied, 

How  embarrassing  to  have  to  hear  such  rude  insinuation  - 
If  words  are  leaves,  it's  fall:  you  should  be  the  blushing  one! 

This  cultural  meme  far  from  extinct.  The  translator  heard  the  same  about 
red  faces  in  1990's  Japan.  Doctors  take  note!  Or,  do  they  already  do  spot 
yeast  unbalances  that  way?  Not  that  the  author  of  Fake  Ise,  or  Nise  tales, 
arbitrarily  chose  that  phenomenon.  It  chose  him.  The  homophony  of 
"stink"  (kusasa/kusai)  and  "grass"  (kusa),  made  Issa  describe  his  own 


grass  hut  (pg.  159-60)  as  fart-filled.  While  unimportant  for  the  larger  plot, 
the  climax  of  which  we  will  reach  by  and  by,  let  me  note  that  the  phrase 
ura  naku  in  the  sister's  reply  is  problematic.  The  above  reading  follows  a 
gloss  by  Fuji  Masaharu  @±IEHf  {%)M.t£hXWMte^  t ^ot,  ff#&r 
t  &^fo),  but  Japanese  or  not,  he  was  no  specialist  like  McCullough,  who 
translated,  "Why  do  you  speak  of  me  /  in  words  novel  as  the  first  /  grasses 
of  spring?  /  Have  I  not  always  loved  you  /  quite  without  reserve?  {Tales  of 
Ise)  Before  we  proceed  to  the  poem  that  should  be  the  recognized  exemplar 
of  a  sex-as-parody  kyoka,  we  need  to  see  one  more  Tale  of  Ise  waka. 

musashi/kasuga-no  wa  kyo  wa  na  yakiso  wakakusa  no  tsuma  mo  komoreri  ware  mo  komoreri  ise 
musashi/kasuga  moor-as-4  today-as-4  burn-not  young-grass-spouse  hidden  I  too  hidden  +^"^#17 

Not,  today!  Burn  not  Musashi  moor!  Soft  spring  grass 
Lies  hidden  there,  no  less,  my  sweet  young  blade  &  I. 

Not,  today!  Burn  not  the  moor  of  Kasuga,  for  here  we  lie 
My  sweetheart  as  tender  as  the  new  spring  grass,  and  I! 

"The"  original  comes  in  two  versions.  The  Tales  of  Ise  (c.905)  puts  the 
story  in  the  mouth  of  a  girl  begging  them  not  to  burn  a  field  to  flush  her 
kidnapper  (a  'thief  of  peoples'  daughters,'  i.e.,  they  absconded  without  her 
parents'  permission).  The  Kokinshu  (905)  version  is  not  prefaced.  Young- 
grass  eventually  came  to  modify  maidens  alone,  but  at  this  time  a  young 
blade  was  a  possible  reading.  This  poem  bore  many  take-offs  of  which  my 
favorite  represents  what  we  might  call  the  instinct  most  beloved  by  the 
kyoka  poet  (hint:  it  is  not  sex).  That  poem  may  be  found  in  the  chapter  on 
Mad  Spring.  And,  now,  we  are  ready  for  the  climax,  a  kyoka  using  mostly 
the  words  of  this  Tale  of  Ise  waka  to  put  the  horny  sister-lover  and  prurient 
ancients  who  come  up  with  such  ideas  in  the  other  Tales  of  Ise  waka  in 
their  place  far  better  than  his  sister's  retort  (in  any  reading)  could: 

kasugano  ya  tsuma  mo  komoreru  wakakusa  ni  nakite  neyoge  ni  miyuru  saojika  yonenari 
kasugano:  mate+emph.  hiding  youngrass-in/frm  crying  sleep/sex-good-for  looks  yearling 

Ho,  Kasuga  Moor!  Hiding  in  the  new  grass,  with  his  doe 
A  young  buck  -  to  hear  him  bleat,  he  '11  be  a  good  / 

English  readers  are  welcome  to  replace  the  buck  with  a  stag  and  the  f_ 

for  a  sh  .  Found  on  a  Seven  Treasures  Club  -fciSiS  sponsored  New  Year 

surimono  (print)  with  another  kyoka  and  a  picture  of  a  mother  deer  and 
yearling,  this  droll  pastiche  or  bleating  irony  -  how  does  one  take  it?  - 
dating  to  the  late- 1820s,  is  one  of  the  few  take-offs  in  kyoka  that  is  a 


genuine  parody,  allusions  with  an  attitude  if  you  will.  One  small  point. 
Neyoge,  or  apparently-good-to-sleep-with  (in  Usanian  slang,  looks  like  a 
good  lay)  is  written  with  the  character  root  and  originally  meant 
someone  of  good  character,  good  to  the  bone,  so  to  speak,  but  root  being 
homophonic  with  sleep  (both  ne)  .  .  .  Usually  applied  to  a  female,  here, 
applied  to  a  male,  an  additional  meaning  of  root  comes  to  mind. 
Regardless,  said  root  helps  carry  the  poem  from  the  grass  ^  in  the  first 
part  to  the  sexual  innuendo  in  the  second  by  association.  Why  is  it  a  New 
Year's  poem?  Partly  because  it  simply  piggybacked  on  to  another  poem 
taking  the  spots  on  a  fawn  as  the  stars  left  in  the  sky  from  the  previous 
year  at  dawn,  partly  because  young-grass  is  a  sign  of  spring  and  spring  is 
synonymous  with  the  New  Year,  and  partly  for  a  functional  reason:  it 
would  surely  trigger  the  first-laugh  of  the  year  in  anyone  who  read  it! 


hito  no  koi  ki  wa  itsu  nari  to  neko  towaba  menmoku  mo  nashi  nan  to  kotaen  yokoi  yayu 
people's  loves  season-as-for  when  becomes  =quote  asks-if/when  face-not+emph  what  reply-should? 


This  less  clever  but  equally  telling  commentary  about  human  sexuality  is  a 
kyoka  by  gentleman  haikai  poet  and  haibun  essayist  Yayu  (1657-1743). 
The  poem  would  be  more  interesting  were  it  written  recently  rather  than 
several  hundred  years  ago,  as  the  oddity  of  the  aseasonal  nature  of  human 
sexuality  as  opposed  to  the  seasonal  or  otherwise  bounded  instinct  of  other 
animals  is  now  a  commonplace.  Yayu  was  also  playing  on  a  long  haikai 
and  kyoka  tradition  of  playing  with  the  mating  behavior  of  cats. 


t>  L&Vttfc&^BtDni^Ztl-k&KVfrtlX    ^W±M  1635-85 


neko  mo  tsuma  moshi  koi-shinaba  shamisen  no  kawaii  ya  sore  mo  iro  ni  hikarete  emp.  gosai 
cat's/s'  mate/s  if  love-die-when  shamisen's  charming!/?/:  that  to  color/sex-for  scratch/played/ing 

Plaintive,  indeed,  shamisen  made  from  cats  that  die  in  season. 
Clawed  then,  plucked  now,  and  for  the  same  damn  reason 

Piquant  the  song  of  shamisen  born  of  cats  that  died  for  love; 
No  fur  flies  but  sure  enough,  they  're  about  getting  some! 

The  final  verb  in  this  masterpiece  by  the  111  Emperor  Gosai,  hikarete,  a 
heterographic  homophone  means  1)  scratched,  2)  plucked  and  3)  drawn  by 
love.  English  cannot  do  that  in  one  word,  so  even  if  the  cultural  background 


Ah,  the  shame! 
How  can  one  reply  when 
the  cat  has  reason 

to  ask  if  the  loves  of  men, 
like  felines,  has  a  season? 


Asked  by  pussy 
What  season,  then,  do  men 


come  into  heat?  " 

The  cat 's  got  my  tongue: 
We  must  admit  defeat! 


100 


was  given  -  cat  skin  was  used  to  make  the  sound  membrane  of  the  banjo- 
like instrument  and  the  entertainers  who  played  them  were  called  cats  in 
Kyoto  -  the  loss  in  translation  was  extreme. 


J>  Life  After  Death  in  the  Pleasure  Quarters  P 


Ah,  mating  cats,  though  you  should  die  of  love,  as  shamisen, 
You  would  he  more  charming  yet  still  scratching  for  a  screw! 


One  wonders  if  the  Emperor  was  playing  not  just  with  cats  and  courtesans 
but  with  a  poem  by  kyoka  master,  Mitoku  7fc#  (1588-1669): 


ito  tsukete  tegai  no  neko  wa  shamisen  no  kawa  ni  kakete  mo  hito  ni  hikaruru 
string  put-on  pet  cat-as-for  shami's  skin-as  put/spread+emph  people-by  pluck/scratched 


Just  string  him  up  and  stretch  your  pet  into  a  banjo  skin; 
He  scratched  you,  so  now,  you  might  as  well  scratch  him! 


Again  that  damn  verb  does  not  do  it  in  English.  Please  pretend  "scratch" 
also  means  play  a  string  instrument  as  it  does  in  Japanese.  Note  also  that 
the  same  verb  also  could  refer  to  being  pulled  about  on  a  leash  or  loved! 


utsumono  mo  utaruru  mono  mo  okujochu  kawarake  naranu  ketakusan  nari  shokusanjin 
striking  one/thing  struck  one/thing  even  palace  maid  bare-pot  is-not  hair  much  is  18- 19c 

On  a  Picture  of  Straw  Sandal  Beating 


The  thumper  and  the  thumped,  both  are  palace  maids; 
Far  from  bare  pies,  these  are  hairy  as  the  Everglades! 

A  well-known  20c  Japanese  party  song  has  twelve  stanzas,  one  for  each 
month,  each  seemingly  but  not  actually  dirty.  One  example,  the  master 
chases  around  the  maid.  Hanky-panky  on  the  mind?  No,  he  just  wants  her 
to  do  the  end-of-the-year  cleaning  .  .  .  The  above  is  both  a  prime  example 
of  such  fake  sex  and  the  great  ky oka-master's,  most  outrageous  take-off.  It 
is  a  bit  complex  for  this  book,  but  too  good  not  to  at  least  try.  Sex  first. 
Senryu,  following  haikai,  made  a  big  deal  of  the  quasi-harem  existence  of 
palace  maids  who  strapped  on  dildos  to  assuage  their  loneliness  and  unlike 
women  in  the  pleasure  quarters  did  not  shave  their  pubes  -  forgive  my 
Everglades,  a  river  of  grass  not  hair  -  and  did  not  shy  away  from  pre- 


101 


pube(scent)  girls  who  were  called  unglazed  pots  and  not  bare  pies.  Tenmei 
mad  poems,  coming  right  on  the  tail  of  the  senryu  boom,  generally  did  not 
really  treat  such  matters,  but  they  did  pretend  to.  Shokusanjin  assembles  a 
menagerie  of  erotic  stereotypes  here  for  a  poem  someone  who  did  not  see 
the  picture  or  caption  might  take  for  a  pornographic  epigram  ala  Martial 
rather  than  a  close-up  of  macrame  sandal-making  down  to  the  tiny  "hairs" 
sticking  from  the  pounded  straw  twine  used  to  make  them.  Now,  for  the 
second  complexity  and  what  really  makes  this  outrageous.  Shokusanjin 
was  also  playing  with  an  early- 16c  poem  about  as  far  from  erotic  as 
anything  ever  written,  unless  you,  like  Emily  Dickinson,  get  off  on  death: 

utsu  mono  mo  utaruru  mono  mo  kawarake  no  warete  no  ato  wa  moto  no  katamari 
striking  ones/things  &  struck  ones/things  earthen-ware  broken-after  original  lump 

Those  striking  and  those  struck,  both  unglazed  pots  today; 
Once  broken,  all  rejoin  the  original  lump  of  clay. 

A  description  of  a  pile  for  malformed  work  at  a  pottery?  No.  This  is  a 
genuine  death-poem  written  by  Michitake  in  1516,  before  a  battle  that 
resulted  in  the  extinction  of  the  Miura  clan  (Wf  cD^fl,  Hffi )I  \Ni  1516 
¥^«^«OM£^ij-Tf5>  t  t  h  fcmhftlz)  when  a 

hundred-plus  Miura  vassals,  headed  for  certain  death,  drank  sake  together 
from  the  unglazed  earthenware  cups  (contrary  to  Europeans  who  used 
vessels  made  of  precious  metals  and  adorned  with  jewels  for  the  same  - 
see  Topsy-turvy  1585  for  the  reasons).  In  case  you  miss  the  connection 
between  the  poems,  please  note  the  verb  "thump"  in  the  first,  then 
"strike,  "  is  the  same  utsu,  and  both  "bare  pies"  (a  semi-Japanese  modern- 
ism from pai-man,  or  hairless  vulva)  and  "unglazed  pots"  in  Shokusanjin's 
poem  are  the  same  kawarake.  The  "far  from  bare  pies"  {kawarake  naranu) 
means,  "~  contrary  to  the  mention  of  unglazed/bare  vessels/  pies  with 
respect  to  beating/throwing  (utsu/utare)  in  the  previous  poem.  It  would 
seem  the  kyoka  facetiously  contradicts  the  death  poem  for  the  hell  of  it. 
And,  please  note  where  I  found  the  death  poem:  a  1679  kyoka  anthology. 


shibaraku  mo  yotoko  ni  shiri  o  suezaru  wa  waga  tsuma  naranu  inazuma  zokashi  akera  kanko  1785 
awhile+emph  nightbed-in  butt+acc  set-not-as-for  my  wife/lover-becomes-not  lightning/no- wife  fSjfn 

(No  wonder  I  thunder!) 

Ne  'er  in  my  bed  long  enuf  to  sleep,  the  girl  called  Lightning; 
Here  I  am  for  a  screw,  and  all  she  does  is  bolt! 


The  original,  unEnglishable  though  relying  on  only  one  double-pun, 
describes  a  popular  woman  in  the  pleasure  quarter  shuttling  between 
rooms  with  two  or  more  customers  not  as  a  tsuma,  or  mate/wife,  but  ina- 
zuma,  meaning  lightning  and  usually  written  fl  S  the  first  character, 
meaning  "rice"  and  second  "wife,"  but,  here,  with  the  former  written 
phonetically  ina  can  mean  not/none  and  the  lightning  becomes  "non(or 
not-in)-mate/lover.  "  There  are  many  prefaces  of  negation  in  Japanese,  but 
ina  is  particularly  fitting  here  because  the  woman  dis/appearing  evokes  the 
nursery  game  of  peek-a-boo,  "Ina  ina  booh!"  in  Japanese!  Extended 
metaphors  such  as  She  is  no  mate  /  of  mine  who  fast  as  lightning  /  bolts 
my  bed  //  Leaving  me  and  my  thunder  /  without  even  a  rain  date,  slang 
obfuscation:  To  a  Popular  Harlot  //  Do  your  duty  /  move  your  booty  but 
don 't  go  /  room  to  room  // I'm  talking,  it's  good  to  be  hot!  / But,  don 't  go 
walking,  it's  not!  wordplay  closer  to  the  original:  Quick  as  a  bolt  /  from 
the  blue  -  she  '11  do  me  /  She  11  do  you  //  Eighty  percent  of  lover  /  is  over: 
we  are  through!  all  bore.  To  match  the  poet,  one  must  forget  details: 

Will,  my  Beau,  my  gigolo,  why  must  you  so  quickly  go? 
Slow  down,  give  me  a  Kiss!  I'll  not  pay  Will  o '  the  Wisp! 

No,  even  a  clever  a.k.a.  is  not  as  good  as  a  perfect  pun.  The  translator  was 
ready  to  ditch  the  damn  poem  when  that  bolt,  doubling  as  noun+verb, 
came  from  the  blue  and  gave  him  a  flawed,  but,  coupled  with  that  screw, 
finally  fun  translation.  The  reader  might  wonder  how  one  could  waste  so 
much  time  translating  one  poem.  First,  complete  concentration  is  the  only 
peace  someone  with  tinnitus  gets.  Second,  because  Akera  Kanko's  puns 
are  the  most  effective  in  all  kyoka  (See  his  year's  end  poem,  p.  196)  and 
translation  is  a  good  way  of  discovering  what  makes  them  so.  Is  it  not 
relaxing  the  reader's  guard  with  a  combination  of  easy  language  and 
familiar  stereotypes  and  only  then  finishing  him  or  her  off  with  a  knock- 
out pun  as  slick  and  unexpected  as  an  upper-cut  to  the  chin? 

igirisu  mo  furansu  mo  mina  sato  namari  tabitabi  kuru  wa  iya  de  arinsu  tsutsui  1788-1859 
english  &  french  &  all  (their)country's  dialect  sometimes  coming-as-4=brothel  yucky  is+  rankei 

Displeasure  in  the  Pleasure  Quarters 

The  Igirisu  and  the  Furansu  all  have  accents  they 'd  share 
What  nerve  to  dare  talk  to  us  like  that  de  arinsu! 

This  is  one  of  those  poems  that  ensure  translation  never  fully  replaces 
learning  the  language  yourself.  The  best  pun,  come  ^brothel  (kuru  wa  = 
kuruwa)  is  superb  and  untouchable,  while  the  whole  point  of  the  poem 


103 


depends  on  a  specific  verb,  arinsu,  a  variation  on  the  formal  way  to  say 
"is/are,"  arimasu,  an  argot  unique  to  the  women  in  the  Yoshiwara  Pleasure 
Quarters  sounding  like  the  names  given  to  various  foreign  nationals.  The 
poem,  made  by  the  old  man  who  served  as  administrator  of  Nagasaki 
when  Japan  was  opened  by  Perry  in  the  mid- 1 9c,  pokes  fun  at  the  women, 
with  their  odd  speech,  supposedly  upset  to  be  visited  by  foreigners  with 
theirs.  Tsutsui  Rankei's  poem  is  driven  by  the  similarity  between  the  end 
of  the  words  Furansu  (France/French)  Igirisu  (England/English)  and  the 
Courtesan's  arinsu.  After  all,  he  also  dealt  with  the  Dutch  and  Russians 
and  they  are  not  mentioned.  Because  Japanese  had  long  studied  Dutch, 
they  had  their  work  cut-out  for  them  to  learn  the  other  European  "dialects" 
-  when  you  consider  the  difference  between  Indo-European  and  Ural- 
Altaic  language,  dialect  is  not  far  from  the  truth!  The  word  used  in  the 
poem  sato-namari,  means  country/town  /local  pronunciation  or  accent.  It 
can  include  the  nuances  of  dialect,  too,  but  the  focus  here  is  on  sound, 
hence  accent.  English  lacks  the  right  generic  term  for  a  popular  sound- 
centered  local  lingo;  our  good  words  are  specific  to  particular  dialects,  eg. 
Scottish  brogue,  Southern  drawl  and  Midwest  twang.  Ah,  the  de  before 
the  arinsu.  It  is  a  part  of  speech  that  is  meaningless  but  comes  before 
is/are  proper  or  dialectal  and,  to  those  of  us  who  speak  Japanese,  it  would 
sound  wrong  to  drop  it,  so  it  remains  in  the  translation. 

amanoto  mo  shibashi  na  ake  so  kinuginu  no  kono  akatsuki  o  tokoyami  ni  shite  yujo  hatamaki  1786 
heaven's  door  too  while  not-open-not  (lovers')parting's  this  dawn+acc.  permanent-dark/bed-into  make 

Must  we  part!  Open  not,  not  for  a  while,  O  Heaven 's  Door! 
Let  this  dawn  stay  dark  and  us  in  bed  for  evermore! 

This  poem,  where  permanent-darkness=tokoyami  allusively  associates 
with  bed=toko,  accompanied  a  picture  of  Yujo,  or  Courtesan,  Hatamaki, 
one  of  50  Tenmei  era  kyoka  poets,  including  three  yujo,  in  the  Azuma  Song 
Kyoka  Pocketbooh^^&1>£M.~XW-.  Hamada's  notes  say  she  was  real  and 
worked  in  Jk^C^PML  The  Big  Letter,  a  house  owned  by  a  kyoka  enthusiast, 
and  Yomo  no  Akara,  himself,  signed  a  poem  for  her,  suggesting  they  met, 
yet  the  poem  seems  a  bit  too  fitting  to  be  true  and  may  be  a  ringer.  Here, 
for  comparison,  are  two  waka  by  10c  lady's  man  Sanekata. 

m  t  fit ff  £F © m  t>  $  L #  9     <D # if    *)  ii  h  tt T  h  h  h  t?  %  ft  958-98 
imo  to  neba  iwato  no  sora  mo  sashikumori  sono  yo  bakari  wa  akezu  mo  aramu  sanekata 
sis/lover-w/  sleep-whn  cave-door's  sky  cloudover  tht-nght  extnt  open=tire-not  would-not! 

Sleeping  with  Sis,  I've  come  to  wish  Heaven 's  doors  would  stay  shut, 
With  the  sky  too  dark  for  day  to  break,  tonight,  I  cannot  get  enough! 


Sashi,  or  "barred"  becomes  sashikwnori,  or  "clouding  over,"  a  term  used 
in  a  Hitomaro  poem  on  staying  someone,  and  puns  with  a  term  found  in 
the  Record  of  Ancient  Matters  (Kojiki  712),  sashikomori,  meaning  to 
hole-up  somewhere  and  akezu=not  dawning=  not  opening.  This  has  more 
puns  than  the  Tenmei  era  yujo,  or  ringer 's  poem,  but  loses  to  the  charm  of 
the  word  tokoyami  in  the  kyoka.  But  what  about  the  next? 

Ji<D7*%3fctz.#>\cbft$k'&te}?h  h^V<  fe»^i(D^LT  Wj  10c 

ama  no  to  o  waga  tame  ni  to  wa  sasanedomo  ayashiku  akanu  kokochi  nomi  shite  sanekata 
heaven's  door+acc  my  sake-for-as4,  barred-not  but  oddly  cloyed(=open)-not  feeling  only  have! 

Heaven 's  Portal 
was  for  my  sake  left  ajar; 

But  odd  to  say, 

I'm  still  far  from  through 
longing  for  you  come  day. 

The  poem  had  a  preface:  "When  I  was  openly  with  the  same  lady  in  the 
northern  hall,  towards  dawn  we  opened  the  shutters  as  the  sky  looked 
particularly  fine;  so,  too,  did  my  lady"  (McAuley  et  al*  Sheffield  Univ.  waka 
site).  The  poet  writes  that  though  the  portal  was  left  unbarred  -  an  allusion 
to  her  privates  as  well  -  it  did  not  open,  akanu  fo=W\=i)^<sb.,  or  so  one 
imagines  for  a  split  second  before  the  words  which  follow  show  that 
akanu  means  fe>  =  iS  =  /55,fe,  the  active  verb  for  insatiate,  i.e.,  he  cannot  get 
enough  of  her.  This  complex  ploy  makes  the  old  waka  more  of  a  kyoka 
than  even  the  yujo's  (courtesan's)  Tenmei  kyoka.  Only  Getsudoken's 
lovers  returning  from  the  land  of  the  dead  with  which  we  began  the 
chapter  is  clearly  more  novel  than  Sanekata' s  confession,  though  it  is  not 
so  perfectly  comic  as  Akera  Kanko's  last- word  pun  on  inazuma,  the 
popular  "lightning=not-present-mate"  in  the  Pleasure  Quarters. 

ware  mo  seji  rusu  no  aida  o  tashiname  to  iite  wakareshi  tsuma  zo  koishiki  teitoku 
i  too  do-not  absence's  while  temperate-be!  so  saying  parted  wife+emph.  dear 

Swearing  that  while  you  're  out  "I,  too,  won 't  do  it,  "  we  find 
Day  by  day  she  grows  more  dear  -  the  wife  you  left  behind. 

Saying  "I,  too,  shall  refrain  "  we  promised  to  be  chaste; 
So  on  the  road,  I  found  my  wife  beloved  to  my  taste. 

This  poem  is  among  Teitoku 's  Hundred  Kyoka  and  included  in  the 
Tenmei  era  Manzai  Kyoka  anthology,  but  a  man  remaining  chaste  and 
growing  horny  through  abstention  is  barely  mad.  Still,  it  seems  a  mad  way 


105 


to  end  a  chapter  on  sex,  which  some  readers  may  find  wanting.  With 
respect  to  the  pleasure  quarters,  which  feature  large  in  the  Occident's 
image  of  old  Japan,  the  fact  is  that  most  of  the  women  were  first  and 
foremost  entertainers  and  most  of  the  clients  were  not  the  poor  bachelors 
who  bought  sex  elsewhere  but  married  men  of  means  or  literatae  with 
patrons  of  means  who  used  the  establishments  as  places  to  hold  parties 
and  seek  romance.  You  will  find  more  on  them  in  the  chapter  on  love. 
Speaking  more  broadly,  this  presentation  is  tame  because:  1)  the  translator 
has  yet  to  read  the  sex-centered  parodies  with  kyoka  that  do  exist  and  is 
saving  the  subject  for  later  if  he  finds  them  interesting;  2)  bawdy  ballads 
and,  later,  senryu  had  so  much  detailed  obscenity  that  kyoka  collections 
had  no  call  to  focus  on  the  subject.  If  you  would  know  more,  see  my  book 
of  dirty  senryu.  *  3)  As  such  poetry  is  not  central  to  enjoying  kyoka  but 
pursued  too  far  could  turn  off  some  readers,  little  has  been  presented  here. 


P  The  sister's  reply  to  the  what-a-waste-she's  such-a-good-lay  poem  by  her  brother 
is  problematic.  Did  McCullough  (Tales  of  Ise:  1968)  peg  it?  Or?  Specialists  are 
invited  to  write  glosses  for  another  addition. 

J*  Should  a  sample  of  dirty  senryu  be  in  this  book?  Say,  the  fan-maker  as  dildo 
supplier  to  the  Isle  of  Women  or  an  octopussy  or  two?  Readers  of  both  books,  let  me 
know.  Feedback  matters.  I  do  not  write  for  myself.  Rudolfsky  read  his  children's 
books  to  children  before  finishing  them.  I  would  do  the  same  with  adults. 

P  14  and  17 -mora  poems.  This  includes  zappai,  or  mixed  haikai-derived  poetry, 
which  includes  Mutamagawa,  a  huge  collection  that  precedes  (mid- 18c)  and  overlaps 
senryu  and  is  partly  7-7.  It  is  often  called  senryu  though  sticklers  insist  senryu  began 
with  Karai  Senryu  whose  name  stuck  with  the  genre  he  solidified. 

P  Neyoge  or  the  good-to-sleep-with  buck.  This  extraordinary  kyoka  was  found  in 
Daniel  McKee's  catalogue  of  surimono,  color  prints  with  one  or  more  kyoka, 
Colored  in  the  Year's  New  Light  (2008).  Over  90%of  the  kyoka  translated  prior  to 
P  Mad  In  Translation  (2009)  are  in  museum  catalogues  of  this  literary  artwork. 
That  should  tell  us  something  about  the  nature  of  translation  from  Japanese  into 
English! 

P  Martial's  Epigrams.  If  you  think  limericks  or  hip-hop  can  be  dirty,  and  are  brave 
enough  to  see  the  all-too-colorful  classic  world  before  the  paint  washed  off  those 
sculptures  . .  . 

P    McAuley  and  Sanekata.  I  recall  reading  a  senryu  about  a  poet  with  a  c  t  (sane) 

in  his  name  over  a  decade  ago,  but  did  not  know  who  he  was.  I  only  found  Sanekata 
because  he  was  one  of  many  waka  poets  on  a  website  of  waka  poetry  put  up  by 
Thomas  McCauley  and  students  at  Sheffield  University  who  did  not  find  him  as 
erotic  as  this  translator  does.  The  website  translation  of  that  portal  of  heaven  poem 
(imo  to  neba  ....)  on  the  joys  of  a  night  of  love-making  where  the  poet  could  never 
get  enough  was:  "The  portal  of  Heaven,  /  For  my  sake  was  /  Shut  not,  yet  -  /  How 


strange  -  endlessly  for  it  to  open  not  /  Is  all  of  my  longing...  "  Reading  it  (and  all  too 
many  other  such,  the  likes  of  which  I  find  in  most  books  of  translation  from  the 
original)  evoked  my  usual  response  to  things  that  should  not  be:  didactic  doggerel. 

Translation  is  funny:  U  need 
not  always  be  on  the  money; 
but  unless  you  are  set  on  wit, 
all  too  often,  U  won 't  get  it! 

It  is  understandable  that  translators,  who  on  the  whole  represent  those  the  Bible 
claims  will  inherit  the  earth,  often  settle  for  meaningless  "direct"  translation.  To  get 
something,  which  is  to  say  get  it  right,  often  means  guessing  and  one  is  more  likely 
to  be  criticized  for  getting  something  wrong  than  for  not  getting  it.  So,  the  meek 
pragmatist  just  translates  what  seems  to  be  on  the  page  without  daring  to  divine  the 
reading  between  the  lines,  which  is,  in  most  cases,  what  the  lines  are  there  for!  We 
hear  alot  about  poetry  lost  in  translation,  but  what  about  ideas?  Without  them,  why 
the  hell  do  we  need  poetry  when  one  amplified  variable  tension  piano-wire  or  well- 
cut  piece  of  bamboo  can  produce  better  aural  stimulation  than  all  the  poems  that  have 
ever  been  read? 

P  Dirty  Senryu.  There  is  only  one  book  on  and  of  Edo  period  dirty  senryu  in 
English  and  it  is  sold  under  two  titles  (an  experiment).  Octopussy,  Dry  Kidney  & 
Blue  Spots  is  one,  The  Woman  Without  a  Hole,  the  other.  Both  are  published  by 
Paraverse  Press  and  the  content  100%  viewable  at  Google. 

P  Dry  Kidney  Disease  When  I  noted  haikai  roots  of  the  concept  of  Dry  Kidney 
disease  mentioned  in  this  chapter  in  the  740-page  Monster.  I  had  not  yet  realized 
that  it  was  already  being  not  only  put  into  kyoka  but  spoofed  as  early  as  the  1650's  or 
60's  until  I  found  the  following  in  the  Tokaido  part  of  the  huge  Baedecker  edited  by 
various  people  over  the  course  of  the  second  half  of  the  17c. 

keisei  ni  kurui-sugureba  ginkyo  shite  hate  wa  hijini  no  wazurai  to  nam 
(pretty)harlot-with  crazed/loving-exceed  silver-empty-doing  end-as-for 
drought-death's  disaster/hardship-as  becomes 

Yoshiwara  Pleasure  Quarters 

Go  crazy  for  a  courtesan  and  you  '11  loose  your  silver; 
In  the  end,  your  purse  will  be  empty  as  a  dry  river! 

In  the  end,  you  will  have  no  arrows  in  your  quiver. 

The  original,  probably  by  Ryoi,  changes  jinkyo,  or  "kidney-empty"  into  ginkyo 
"silver-empty."  In  Japan  even  today  banks  are  called  ginko  with  the  gin  meaning 
"silver"  not  "gold."  In  other  words,  not  just  gold  but  silver  was  synonymous  with 
money.  It  is  rare  today  for  a  Japanese  pun  to  be  a  rhyme  rather  than  a  homophone. 
Such  a  pun  is,  itself,  mad. 


Mad  Reporting:  from  Personal  Scoop  to  Public  Squib 

^kg^Xk^ %&X'f5:M.\ZXX/ufrA;J$>&ht>$:&%  it  5  i^itS 
benzaiten  e  mode-sum  michi  nite  tenkanyami  awa  o  fukikeru  o  mite  yomikeru 

mode  suru  michi  nite  awa  o  fuku  no  kami  kore  zo  makoto  no  benzaitenkan 
pilgrimage-doing-road-on,  foam+acc.  spew  =>  fortune/wealth-god/dess 
this+emph.  true  benzaiten(goddess  of  wealth)=>epilepsy  (&  exhibit?) 

Read  after  meeting  up  with  an  epileptic,  foaming 
by  the  road  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Benzaiten's  shrine 

P  The  power  of  kyoka,  or  how  a  Grand  Mai  becomes  a  Petit  Bon!  P 

On  the  road  to  the  shrine  of  the  Goddess  of  Wealth,  a  sign  of plenty: 
Foam  that  overflows  a  mouth  -  a  charm  we  have  .  .  .  in  epilepsy! 

Bokuyo's  report  morphs  fuku=spewing,  a  verb,  into  its  homophone  wealth 
and  links  that  to  the  Goddess  whose  name,  Benzaiten,  partially  overlaps 
the  disease,  tenkan,  or  epilepsy.  While  the  translated  snapper  is  where  it 
belongs  (at  the  end  of  the  poem),  a  partial  rhyme  does  not  match  a  truly 
telling  pun.  Some  of  this  loss  in  translation  is  recovered  with  a  clever  title, 
reflecting  my  respect  for  what  this  physician  (1607-78),  who  knew 
epilepsy  was  not  a  jinx  or  otherwise  bad,  and  may  have  helped  the  sufferer, 
accomplished.  Still,  there  is  no  substitute  for  the  magic  of  marriage  by  pun 
of  the  Goddess  of  Prosperity,  beauty  and  the  literary  arts  to  a  disease  and  a 
symptom  that  makes  others  as  well  as  the  sufferer  uneasy.  The  is  a  fine 
example  of  private  reporting,  which  takes  the  otherwise  un-newsworthy 
and  makes  it  not  only  news  but  good  news. 

shaka-sama  ni  migushi  wa  ochite  nehanzo  kore  zo  makoto  no  jishin-seibutsu  bokuyo 
shakya-master-to  reverend-head-as-for  falling  dead/recumbent/enlightened(buddha)statue 
this+emph.  true  earthquake(=self?  self-belief?)becoming-buddha/buddhafication 

Jz   M   m    K    ±   If   <D    ±   {L   H    <     L    I    it   ix  (1 
On  the  rev.  Head  of  Ueno's  Colossal  Buddha  falling  in  the  Great  Earthquake 

P    Finding    the    Godhead  P 

Shakya  lost  his  reverend  crown,  it  lies  enlightened  on  the  ground; 
Why  not  celebrate  this  case  of  self-awakening  in  a  quake! 

Humdrum,  perhaps,  when  compared  to  finding  significance  in  a  seizure  - 
or  reporting  the  head  of  an  "idol"  that  tumbled  into  a  privy  cesspool  as 
reported  with  inordinate  tongue  out  of  cheek  glee  by  Luis  Frois  S.J.  (Topsy 
Turvy  1585)  a  century  earlier,  but  who  cannot  love  a  poet  that  even  finds 
the  cheerful  in  a  catastrophe?  The  Nehanzo  in  the  original  is  the  just  dead- 


Shakyamuni,  in  translation  to  Nirvana,  something  celebrated  on  Nehan 
day.  An  enlightened  death,  or  final  awakening,  is  called  becoming-buddha, 
but  here  we  have  Buddha  becoming  himself.  What  a  mad  synecdoche:  a 
recumbent  Buddha  found  in  a  head  on  the  ground!  Poems  like  this  and  the 
previous  one  helped  get  Bokuyo  the  reputation  of  being  "too  light"  to  be 
worthy  of  passing  down  to  generations  of  Japanese,  but  a  wit-seeking 
critic  might  argue  that  is  precisely  why  he  deserves  more  attention. 


kintama  no  sadamari  kanete  kaji  igo  wa  chu  ni  buratsuku  mara  no  kariya  zo  getsudoken 
balls'  settling  cannot  housefire  since-as-for  space-in  dangling  cock's  glans/tempor.house!  c.1700 


This  mini-ballad  -  gonzo  journalism  or  broadside?  -  kyoka  about  the 
aftermath  of  a  fire,  by  the  feisty  top  kyoka-master  the  generation  after 
Bokuyo,  adds  the  central  member  to  the  old  saw  of  balls  as  tests  of 
anxiety/tranquility  of  the  confidence  of  leaders  before  battle  or  barometers 
of  peace  under  Tokugawa  rule  (See  The  Woman  Without  a  Hole  for  more).  The 
added  rhyme  for  head  and  invented  "pillow"  do  not  make  up  for  the  loss 
of  the  pun  on  kari,  the  glans  penis  that  puns  into  the  kariya,  or  rented 
dwelling,  hanging  precariously  out  in  space  over  the  nervous  retracted 
balls  to  allegorize  the  circumstances  of  the  newly  homeless  victims. 
Seldom  has  there  been  a  poem  so  ugly  yet  interesting.  Besides  showing 
why  Getsudoken  ought  to  be  better  known,  this  reading  is  a  good  example 
of  how  wit  may  be  kept  though  details  change.  It  only  works  because 
English  has  a  Proper  Name  for  the  penis  that  also  stands  for  everyman 
(Tom,  Dick  and  Harry).  Yes,  it  is  odd  to  have  an  English  name  for  a 
Japanese  mara.  But,  unless  you  can  come  up  with  something  better  .  .  . 


miwataseba  ya-nami  surari  to  komo  kakete  miyako  wa  ham  no  kojiki  narikeri  1 707 
see-span-when  shop/house  wavs/rows  lined  mats-placd  capitl-as4  sprng-bggr/s  beca/ome! 

/  looked  around  the  capital  and  what  sight  did  my  eyes  greet? 
Rows  of  shops  covered  w/  mats  like  beggars  by  spring  streets! 

Now  the  shop  roofs  wear  straw  mats  and  each  one  looks  the  same 
Our  capital  greets  the  Spring,  a  beggar  in  all  but  name! 

A  fire  destroyed  much  of  Kyoto  on  New  Year's  Eve  1706.  Asahi  Bunzae- 
mon's  Parrot  Cage  Report  gives  us  58  poems  about  it.  This  one  reminds 
me  of  South  Miami  after  hurricane  Andrew,  though  straw  mats  would  look 
a  hell  of  a  lot  better  than  blue  plastic  tarps  (let  us  hope  rain  took  a 


Since  the  Fire,  our  poor  balls,  unsettled,  never  go  to  bed, 
which  leaves  no  pillow  for  Dick  to  lay  his  tired  head. 


109 


holiday)!  In  Japanese,  both  translations  easily  coexist  in  a  single  poem. 
My  other  favorite  is  of  a  completely  different  sort: 

hi  no  moto  no  aruji  narubeki  shirushi  ni  wa  mazu  oyake  o  shiroshimesu  kana  1707 
sun(=fire)'s  origin's  owner/lord  is  confirmation-as-for  first  big-burn+acc  show-off!/? 

Lords  of  the  Land  of  the  Rising  Sun,  or  are  they  the  Spark  of  the  Earth, 
that  they  must  first  their  mettle  prove  by  burning  down  so  much  of  it? 

"Hi-no-moto"  and  "Nippon"  both  mean  Source  or  Origin  of  the  Sun  but 
only  the  former  pronunciation  includes  the  homophone  sun=hi=fire.  That, 
the  first  thing  lost  in  translation,  necessitated  "spark  of  the  earth."  If  the 
previous  like-a-beggar  poem  pictures  reality  with  anthropomorphic 
metaphor,  this  one,  at  least  in  the  "they"  reading  ("we"  in  the  740-page 
monster),  becomes  a  classic  squib,  or  could  be,  were  it  well-known.  Other 
poems  rudely  treating  the  huge,  nobles  belonging  to  the  extended  Imperial 
family  who  claimed  descent  from  the  ancient  Sun  Gods  suggest  "they"  is 
"them."  One  in  Parrot  Cage  warns  folk  to  hide  their  nabe  (stew-pots) 
when  kuge  pass  by  lest  they  be  swived.  So,  if  the  fire  started  from  their 
part  of  town  .  .  .  The  prose  in  the  Parrot  Cage,  which  I  lack  {Broadview 
keeps  only  some  short  prefaces),  might  settle  the  matter.  Then,  only 
months  after  the  fire,  we  learn  that  here  and  there,  even  in  Bunzaemon's 
own  garden,  "hair,"  some  thin  as  an  old  person's  and  four  or  five  inches 
long,  most  shorter  and  some  thick  as  horse-hair  was  sprouting  up! 

kuge  wa  yake  buke  wa  koshinuke  machi  wa  koge  tsuchi  ni  hayuru  wa  motsuke  narikeri 
nobles-as4  roasting,  warriors-as4  cowardly,  town-as4  charred  earth-in  grow-as4  freaks  are! 

Nobles  roast,  while  boastful  warriors  flee:  the  town 's  burnt  toast 
What  is  growing  from  the  ground  can  only  be  a  wrathful  ghost! 

Since  the  phenomenon  was  reported  in  various  parts  of  the  nation,  tying  it 
into  the  fire  seems  odd,  but  Kyoto  was  still  the  heart  of  Japan  even  if  its 
muscles  and  increasingly  brain  had  moved  to  Edo.  Another  collection 
from  this  era  in  Broadview,  3lM^-W  has  a  variation  of  the  above  with 
"fool  firemen"  (^f^fifobtt)  for  "cowardly  warriors"  and  a  note  on  black, 
white  and  red  hair  growing  from  the  ashes.  Those  colors  suggest  it  was 
not  just  hysterical  reaction  to  gossamer  induced  by  man-made  and  natural 
catastrophes.  The  year  ending  in  Kyoto's  inferno  bathed  Edoites  in 
volcanic  dust.  Senryu  would  later  joke  about  how  the  price  of  devil's 
tongue  (konjaku)  rose  that  year,  an  allusion  to  the  folk  medicine  claim  that 
it  is  good  to  eat  it  in  order  to  cleanse  one's  bowels  of  sand! 


ue  yori  wa  sunao  ni  nare  to  furu  suna  ni  warera  gotoki  wa  dorobo  ni  nam 
above-from-as4  "obedient/honest  becom"  as-if  fallng  sand-w/by  my-likes-as4  thief  bcom 

Dust  falling  from  on  high  they  tell  us  "mister  drop  your  eyes!" 
For  people  as  low  as  me  that  means:  'Become  mud-pies! 

Sand  from  on  high  says  "be  sunao/ "  truthful,  admit  defeat: 
In  that  case,  me  and  my  ilk  must  call  ourselves  deadbeat! 

Falling  from  high,  sand  says  be  yourself?  Who  'd  have  thunk 
That  a  literal  reading  would  make  a  'thief  of  this  monk! 

The  first  translation  is  one  of  two  possible  misreadings  of  this  Parrot  Cage 
squib  in  the  740-page  monster.  The  other  made  the  poet  a  real  thief  rather 
than  a  nominal  one  as  in  the  last  reading.  I  assumed  people  "of  my  ilk" 
meant  the  lumpen,  plain  and  simple,  and  the  rise  in  food  prices  due  to  the 
volcanic  dust  caused  a  rise  in  crime.  Re-reading,  I  think  I  got  it.  The 
second  character  in  dorobo  was  shorthand  for  a  monk.  The  first  character 
of  dorobo,  a  word  I  have  always  known  only  to  mean  a  thief,  is  "mud." 
And,  if  the  anonymous  poet,  possibly  a  monk,  originally  came  from  the 
same  region  Bunzaemon  resided,  dorobo  meant  a  lazy  good-for-nothing. 
The  volcanic  sand  suna  coming  down  from  on  high  to  signal  the  folk  to  be 
sunao,  i.e.,  honest,  unpretentious,  and  docile  in  the  face  of  authority  has 
been  delightfully  perverted.  Here  is  another  suna/o  poem  that  was  much 
easier  to  catch! 

■r  &  &  ft  5  m\  <o  u  6  u  \as>  nx  m  ©  &  h      it  t>  tt&mmm  ^ih 

sunao  naru  miyo  no  shirushi  ni  suna  furite  yari  no  furanu  ga  mada  mo  shiawase 
obedient/honest/gentle  becoms  hon.reign's  sign-as  sand  fallng  spears  fall-not  still  happy 

The  sand  fall,  a  sign  of  this  docile  age  -  who  locks  the  door? 
It  beats  a  rain  of  spears,  that 's  something  to  be  thankful  for! 

Sunao,  a  word  with  a  unique  combination  of  connotations  with  a  positive 
message  for  moderns  who  give  no  respect  to  people  who  really  deserve  it 
because  they  were  taught  pride  for  the  sake  of  pride,  but  misused  by 
authoritarian  leaders  in  Japan  who  demanded  unquestioning  obedience  is 
interesting,  but  let  us  leave  it  behind  for  something  new,  the  brave  new 
world  of  the  positive  squib  hinted  at  in  my  translation.  It  is  not  quite  as 
clear  in  the  original  which  does  not  go  so  far  to  boast  "who  locks  the 
door?"  In  fact,  the  tone  is  more  like,  "it's  better  than  a  rain  of  spears, 
anyway"  -  alluding  to  war  but  an  idiom  as  natural  as  "cats  and  dogs"  - 
that  is  to  say,  it  leaves  room  for  cynicism,  or  .  .  .  something.  Now,  let  us 
jump  forward  almost  a  hundred  years  to  another  report  on  the  times  that  is 


Ill 


not  only  the  most  famous  aren  't-these-times-good!  kyoka  ever  written  but 
the  most  famous  aren  't-these-times-good!  poem  of  any  sort  in  Japanese.  It 
is  by  Ota  Nanpo  (Shokusan/Yomo-no-akara),  the  most  famous  kyoka  poet 
of  all  time. 

kaku  bakari  medetaku  miyuruyo  no  naka  o  urayamashiku  ya  nozoku  tsukikage  shokusanjin  1783 
this  much  lucky /happy  appears  world/society+acc  enviously+emph.  peek?!  moon-form/light 

a  world  that  seems  Peeking  down 

so  god-damn  happy,  why  upon  a  world  that  looks 

the  moon  in  the  sky  as  happy  as  ours 

must  be  peeking  at  us  Is  that  a  trace  of  envy 

out  of  sheer  envy!  I  see  on  Luna 's  face? 

cf.  kaku  bakari  hegataku  miyuru  yo  no  naka  o  urayamashiku  mo  sumeru  tsuki  kana 
(this  much  cross-hard  seems/  world+contra+lament.  enviously-even  clears/lives-can  moon!) 

Shokusanjin  reverses  the  vector  of  envy  found  in  a  10-1  lc  waka:  "Given 
this  world  that  seems  so  hard  to  live  in  or  pass  through,  /  How  envious  a 
thing  to  see  the  moon  clear  and  serene! "  The  original,  above,  shows  how 
close  they  are.  The  kyoka 's  transformation  of  the  contradictory  deplorative 
"o=£r"  of  the  waka  into  an  accusative  post-position  and  the  lack  of  homo- 
phonic  verbs  for  "live"  and  "[be]  clear, "  not  to  mention  the  tenuous  link 
between  clarity  and  serenity  in  English  hurt  the  translations.  The  old  waka 
is,  itself  pretty  wacky.  Envy  may  be  a  compliment,  but  suffering  poets 
usually  found  Buddha's  grace  and  solace  in  the  serene  face  of  the  moon. 
Perhaps,  the  main  difference  between  the  poems  is  stylistic.  What  if  I 
were  to  translate  that  waka  as,  say,  "How  can  ye  moon  sit  so  high  and 
pretty  in  a  world  where  we  all  must  get  down  and  dirty  to  survive?  "  or, 

Just  look  at  Luna  How  envious  to  see 

not  a  wrinkle  in  her  brow;  the  full  moon  sail  through 

While  we  suffer  this  world  of  gloom; 

indignities  here  below  While  we  must  dog-paddle 

that  diva  does  not  know!  not  to  sink  within  our  tomb! 

Can  such  a  mad  translation  make  it  a  kyoka?  I  think  so;  but,  is  it  the  same 
poem?  Yes  and  no.  Now,  let  us  take  a  closer  look  at  Shokusanjin's 
technique  of  reversal,  then,  reconsider  its  meaning  as  conventionally 
interpreted.  In  a  word,  my  interpretation  is  different.  With  respect  to  the 
first,  there  is  the  following  precedent  among  the  haikai  poems  -  often 
noted  to  be  proto-kyoka  -  in  chapter  19  of  the  Kokinshu  (905). 


yononaka  wa  ika  ni  kurushi  to  omouran  kokora  no  hito  ni  uramirarureba  motokata 
world-withn-as-fr  painfully  thinkng!/?/:  many/masses  of  people-by  begrudgd/hated 

How  it  must  pain  the  World  to  know 
that  many  bitter  people  hate  it  so! 

The  poet  is  none  other  than  Ariwara  no  Motokata,  author  of  the  first  poem 
in  the  Kokinshu  which  plays  with  the  arbitrary  nature  of  our  construction 
of  time  (pg.147).  While  looking  at  things  from  the  looked-upon's  point  of 
view,  the  poem  indirectly  tells  us  a  lot  of  complaining  about  the  state  of 
the  world  i.e.,  society,  has  been  going  on.  Likewise,  Shokusanjin's  tells  us, 
or  should  tell  us,  that  a  lot  of  patting  one's  own  world  on  the  back  has. 
And  that  takes  us  to  interpretation.  It  seems  that  critics  have  overlooked 
all  of  this.  Rather,  the  well-known  envious  moon  kyoka  is  simply  held  to 
document  the  buoyant  confidence  of  the  Edoite  and  express  Tenmei 
kyoka 's  positive  attitude  (Hamada:  SIHlf/ii#j£Ellft  1958),  as  opposed  to 
the  negativism  of  older-style  kyoka.  Edo  specialist  Tanaka  Yuko  (1993), 
even  went  so  far  as  to  claim  that  Shokusanjin  "always  admires  this  real 
world."  Always?  As  good  as  things  were  for  poets  during  the  two  decades 
that  led  up  to  and  included  the  Tenmei  era  when  a  tolerant  man  interpreted 
the  law,  the  boasting  of  nationalists  must  have  seemed  fulsome  to  our 
well-balanced  free-thinker.  As  envious  Luna  may  be  a  dig  at  nativist 
excess  through  exaggeration  ad  absurdum,  in  the  740-page  monster,  the 
poem  is  titled:  i  dunno.  After  all,  Ota  also  wrote  the  following  kyoka,  too: 

iwai:  to  o  akete  nuredomo  sara  ni  isasaka  no  kaze  sae  hikanu  miyo  zo  medetaki 
celebration:  door+acc.  opened  sleep  moreover  wind/cold  even  catch-not  hon.era+exclam  joy /lucky 

We  open  our  doors  to  sleep  and,  what  is  more,  never  catch 
The  slightest  cold  in  this,  the  most  blessed,  times  e  'er  told! 

One  wonders  how  the  above-mentioned  scholars  would  evaluate  that. 
Unless  those  who  claim  he  was  always  positive  think  people  never  caught 
colds,  this  poem  should  set  them  straight!  Ota  was,  like  Bokuyo,  positive, 
in  that  he  sought  the  good  in  everything,  but  he  was  well  aware  that  the 
society  was  far  from  perfect  and  did  not  worship  what  was.  The  positivism 
reflected  in  his  poems  was  not  directed  toward  society  but  personal,  along 
the  lines  of  an  assertion  made  by  Robert  Herrick: 

THE  PRESENT  TIME  BEST  PLEASETH. 

PRAISE  they  that  will  times  past ;  I  joy  to  see 
Myself  now  live  :  this  age  best  pleaseth  me. 


1 13 


The  fact  is  that  by  Ota's  Tenmei  era,  "we  are  living  in  tranquil  times"  was 
less  an  observation  than  a  stereotype  and  long-accepted  conceit  in  poetry 
dating  back  further  than  The  Parrot  Cage.  Here  are  two  old  examples. 

inishie  no  yoroi  ni  kawaru  kamiko  sae  kaze  no  iru  ya  wa  tosazarikeri  rensho? 
long-ago/ancient-times'  armor-w/  exchanging  paperobe  even  wind  shoots  arrows-as4  pass-not 

A  paper  robe  in  place  of  ancient  armor,  still  a  man  of parts, 
Can  rest,  safely  protected  from  the  cold  wind's  chilly  darts! 

tachi  wa  saya  ni  osameru  miyo  wa  hara  tsuzumi  utsuya  utazuya  tanpoponoshiro  tomoyo 
thick-sword-as4  scabbrd-in  contrl  hon.reign-as4  belly-tomtom  beat  or  beat-nt  dndln-frt 

Beating  our  tumtums  full  of  meat,  swords  rusting  in  their  sheaths, 
We  're  off  to  Fort  Dandelion  to  shoot,  or  not  to  shoot,  the  breeze! 

My  warrior's  pride  safely  sheathed,  this  full  tum-tum  is  all  I  beat  - 
Dandy  times  indeed  when  visiting  Ft.  Dandelion  is  dubbed  a  feat! 

The  first  poem  is  from  the  first  major  anthology  of  kyoka,  the  1666  Kokin- 
ikyokushu  published  barely  a  generation  after  the  last  remnant  of  pre- 
Tokugawa  warfare,  the  Shimabara  Rebellion.  Paper-robes,  a  good  implicit 
contrast  with  armor,  were  in  fashion,  particularly  good  against  the  cold 
and  beloved  by  the  elderly.  Tanpopo-no-shiroyama  or  Dandelion  Fort 
Mountain  ^^.{^^  fH^lll  comes  from  the  second  Arima  book  (1678)  in  a 
kyoka  baedeker  ±fi  f£  Wf  4c  <f£  W\  fP  .  Dandelion  was  associated  with 
drumming  rather  than  lion-teeth  in  Japan  and  tummy-drumming  goes  back 
to  ancient  China  as  a  symbol  of  contentment.  (~%"^*r\C$  y  %  >W<T)%M 
h  L^-itA//^?).  The  peace  theme  became  commonplace  in  haikai,  and 
zappai  and  senryu  long  before  Tenmei  kyoka.  Ota  et  al 's  challenge  would 
have  been  to  find  new  ways  to  comment  about  it.  He  does. 

nagaiki  o  sureba  kurushiki  seki  o  uku  medeta-sugitaru  miyo  no  shizukesa  1783? 
longlife  do-if/when  painful  weight+acc  receive  joyful-excessive  hon.  reign's  tranquility 

What  tranquil  times!  But  too  many  blessings  has  a  cost: 
Live  long  and  you  will  come  to  bear  a  heavy  cross! 

Who  knows  if  young  Ota  (Yomo  no  Akara)  wrote  from  the  perspective  of 
one  suffering  the  ravages  of  old  age  or  having  to  care  for  many  aged  in- 
laws, suffice  it  to  say,  he  was  familiar  with  and  played  the  stereotype  from 
the  start.  This  does  not  mean  there  were  no  straight-forward  paeans  to 
peace  in  late-Edo  kyoka.  There  were,  but  had  to  be  clever  to  remain  novel. 


Akera  Kanko's  "Slovenly  Wife,"  Fushimatsu-no-Kaka's  1785  kyoka  - 
"Celebrating  With  Swords"  ^rTJtjt  is  the  best  example  I  know  V  ^\Z.  L^(D 
ZLtl-m?}  t>  b  h  m  £  5  t>  %  £  £  tl 6  'MMt^^ir ffl  W & U  *  inishie  no 
midare  yakiba  mo  shira-saya  ni  uchi-osamareru  miyo  zo  yasukuni. 
Pounding  the  sword  into  the  scabbard,  she  makes  peace  seem  downright 
erotic,  and  the  adjective  for  the  scabbard  doubles  as  a  verb  meaning  not  to 
know  the  terrors  of  war  and  the  Japanese  sword  terms  both  defy 
translation.  Here  is  one  by  Moto  no  Mokuami  that  may  be  Englished: 

ase  mizu  o  nagashite  narau  kenjutsu  no  yaku  ni  mo  tatanu  miyo  zo  medetaki  mokuami 
sweat-water+acc  flowing-learning  sword-skill's  useful  serves-not  hon.-reign+emph  blessed  1785 

This  reign  when  the  sword-play  we  master  not  with  blood  but  sweat 
is  of  no  use  whatsoever  -  Something  to  celebrate?  You  bet! 

How  blessed  this  reign  when  we  need  not  stand  &  fight  anyone 
with  the  swordsmanship  we  gain  by  making  our  sweat  run. 

Sweat  pouring  down  we  practice  the  martial  art  of  the  sword 
How  lucky  to  live  in  a  time  when  we  warriors  are  ignored! 

The  Penguin  translation  of  this,  the  last  poem  in  the  celebration  section  of 
the  Tokuwakago-kyoka-shu  is  Sweat  dripping  down  /  As  you  drill  away  at  / 
The  arts  of  the  sword:  /  That  they  're  no  use,  /  May  this  reign  be  praised 
(Brownas  &  Thwaite  trans.)  seems  too  prosaic  to  be  poetry  but,  hey,  the 
original  is  punless  and  relies  only  on  the  contradiction  of  working  hard  to 
gain  a  useless  skill  proving  that  times  and  the  rulers  are  good.  Another 
poem  in  this  anthology  specifically  lauds  the  isolationism,  or  policy  of 
exclusion  best  understood  by  reading  the  testimony  of  the  Russian  Captain 
Vasilii  Golownin  (see  the  memoirs  of  his  early- 19c  captivity  in  Japan) 
through  an  untranslatable  pun  from  banzai  to  the  name  of  a  huge  sack, 
banbukuro,  with  a  string  that  draws  it  tightly  closed  (L46<^19J;<;Sr$ 
tLtlZ^MoMWlt^^kltAsMfrfl  M-k^fi®  shime-kukuri  yoku 
osamareru  taikun  no  miyo  wa  banbukuro  kana  Sakenoue  no  Furachi). 
Here  is  a  poem  dated  somewhat  later,  1824,  and  found  in  a  book  of 
surimono  prints  that  can  be  translated  - 

yutakanaru  miyo  no  megumiya  mawasanaku  saru  ni  mo  oyobu  senkin  no  haru  suigan 
affluent-becme  hon.reign's  blessngs  sent-round-not  monky-to-evn  reaches  lOOOgold-spring 


Blessed  be  these  wealthy  times  when  a  thousand  gold-piece  Spring, 
Comes  to  the  monkey  who  waits  with  a  smile  doing  nothing. 


115 


Note  that  Mokuami's  poem  about  sweating  for  nothing  predates  the 
conservative  rule  that  from  1788,  suddenly  made  samurai  practice  martial 
arts  more  and  discouraged  their  socializing  with  commoners  -  as  the 
kyoka  associations  did  -  giving  rise  to  the  bunbu  mosquito  squib  we  will 
see  in  a  couple  pages.  And,  by  the  time  the  last  poem  was  composed, 
conservatism  was  de  rigor  and  monkeys  were  in.  The  poem  is  brushed  in 
front  and  slightly  above  the  face  of  a  formally  smiling  -  grinning  with  a 
slight  grimace  suggesting  being  ever  so  properly  awed  -  monkey,  dressed 
up  in  propitious  New  Year  robe  with  a  Sacred  Shinto  hat  and  a  stick  with 
paper  folded  in  a  holy  way  (a  great  picture  by  Hokkei!).  Issa  had  observed 
the  same  in  1816,  In  my  country  even  the  monkeys  wear  top  hats  (waga 
kuni  wa  saru  mo  eboshi  .  .  .  )  Well,  an  eboshi  hat,  at  any  rate;  a  second 
haiku  specified  the  monkey  performed  holy  rites  %f$f.  The  standard  trope, 
"a  thousand-gold-piece  spring"  implies  the  offerings.  The  kyoka  fuses  two 
major  concepts  1)  a  celebration  of  fortunate  times  extending  to  all,  even 
monkeys  lucky  enough  to  be  in  Japan  and,  2)  the  idea  of  good  fortune 
coming  to  you  rather  than  vice-versa  -  traditionally,  the  monkey  was  led 
from  town  to  town,  house  to  house,  but  here  we  have  one  standing  put  yet 
raking  in  the  money.  Haiku  from  17c  Basho  to  18-9c  Issa  mention 
foreigners  coming  to  greet,  or  rather  pay  obsequeence  to  the  Emperor  on 
New  Years.  So  the  surimono  kyoka  means  that  even  a  monkey  is  treated 
like  royalty.  In  other  words,  we  have  a  report  on  a  monkey  serving  as  a 
hyperbole  for  a  report  that  "all  is  well!"  and  that  is  a  properly  propitious 
tiding  to  start  the  New  Year  when  surimono  were  distributed  as  gifts  to 
clients  of  the  poet-commissioner.  Now  that  -  unlike  the  envious  moon 
poem  which,  I  feel  is  somewhat  satirical  -  is  probably  a  purely  positive 
statement.  And,  yes,  it  was  the  Year  of  the  Monkey. 

yo  no  naka  wa  mina  shamisen  ni  narinikeri  teren  teren  no  oto  nomi  zo  suru  c.1707 
world- w/in/society-as4  everyone/all  shamisen  became:  racketX2's  sound  only! makes 

What  times  are  these  when  the  world  is  nothing  but  shamisen! 
Why  strum  a  cat  skin  when  the  real  racket  is  plucking  men? 

This,  on  the  other  hand,  is  purely  negative.  Found  in  the  Parrot  Cage  (and 
elsewhere),  it  is  a  typical  example  of  one  of  the  two  major  types  of  squib, 
the  general  complaint.  As  such  a  comment  on  the  times  may  even  be  self- 
reflection  and  are  not  directed  at  anyone,  one  might  think  the  poet  could 
sign  his  name  but  the  Confucian  idea  that  the  spirit  of  the  times  reflected 
the  character  of  the  ruler  favored  Anonymous.  The  shamisen  has  a  banjo- 
like sound  but  louder,  partly  because  the  heavy  pick  let  not  a  decibel  of 
sound  escape  the  string.  It  does  make  a  racket,  though  teren-teren  is  not 
the  usual  mimetic  expression  but  fraud  or  a  racket  repeated  twice. 


tenka  torn  koto  wa  kirai  de  owari  ni  wa  ieju  no  mono  o  toru  ga  suki  nari 
heavn-below  conquer  thing-as4  hate-so  owari/end-in-as4  homeall-thngs+acc  take  like 

Seizing  the  whole  damn  country  would  be  too  much  hassle, 
So  our  rulers  stay  home  to  steal  from  everyman 's  castle! 

Owari,  the  tail  of  the  earth  would  not  be  the  head  of  it: 
We  stay  home  to  empty  yours,  leaving  but  the  edifice! 

Why  go  out  to  conquer  and  rob  the  ends  of  the  earth 
When  loot's  close  at  hand  in  the  land  of  your  birth? 

The  original  is  no  mere  squib  but  a  bonafide  kyoka  because  "in  the  end 
(after  larger  ambitions  to  power  fail)"  is  homophonous  with  the  name  of 
the  domain.  Bunzaemon's  journal  shows  he  was  disgusted  with  corrupt 
rulers  and  held  this  sort  of  view.  Who  knows  but  the  poems  are  his.  If  so, 
the  same  question  arises  we  might  ask  for  Issa:  are  poems  not  meant  for 
publication  during  the  poet's  lifetime  but  content-wise  more  clearly  squibs 
than  most  that  are  published  still  squibs?  Broadview  calls  the  kyoka  it 
gathered  from  Parrot's  Cage  squibs  ^■Mt'P,  but  some  may  not  be.  One  by 
or  about  what  may  be  the  abbot  of  the  Pure  Light  Temple  ^-^KtJi-hKP ^ 
Ab^X>LW(DBW:  visiting  Ueno  in  1708:  Xilf^i  htl^±.if 
^{i/c^l^Tl^V^Pifeifr  mata  kujira  .  .  .  partly  escapes  me,  but  the 
final  play  on  a  caught  whale's  responsibility  for  its  fate,  where  the  idiom 
meaning  "failure  to  be  wary"  literally  reads  "oil-cut-off/runs-out, "  is 
brilliant,  as  whale  oil  was  used  for  lamps  and  "Pure  Light"  .  .  . 


Now  that  we  have  seen  something  of  the  diversity  of  so-called  fallen- 
heads/poems  ?lr]lr,  let  us  see  some  classic  squibs,  many  famous,  more  or 
less  as-is  from  the  740-page  Monster.  First,  from  the  chapter  titled 
Mosquitoes,  Martial  Preparedness  &  Fallen  Heads: 

yononaka  ni  ka  hodo  urasaki  mono  wa  nashi  bunbu  to  iute  yoru  mo  nerarezu  shokusanjin? 
world-in  mosquito-amount  bothersome  thing-as-for  (is)not.  'bunbu'  saying,  night  even  sleep-cannot 

Bun=humanities,  Bu=martial-arts 

There  is  nothing  What  is  as  big 

half  so  irksome,  or  small  a  bother,  yet  so  minute 

as  the  mosquito  as  the  mosquito! 

And  when  they  go  'bunbu '  When  they  their  'bunbu '  toot 

we  cannot  sleep  at  all!  Woe  to  any  man  who 'd  sleep! 


117 


The  mosquitoes  are  slightly  out-of-tune.  Usually,  they  hum  bun  or  bun- 
bun.  Here  the  second  nasalized  "n"  is  cut  short  to  sound  a  word  written  in 
Chinese  characters  as  3CS£,  i.e.,  writing  (&  other  cultural  activities)+raar//a/ 
(arts),  referring  to  Kansei  Reform  (1787-1793)  policies  aimed  at  re- 
instilling  a  martial  spirit  in  the  warrior  class  that  did  not  need  to  be  told  to 
practice  the  literary  arts  because  they  already  did.  The  unsigned  poem  is 
famous  because  suspicion  that  Ota  Nanpo  was  the  author  is  said  to  have 
been  one  cause  for  his  being  forced  to  retire  after  a  decade  of  active  kyoka 
composition  and  organizing.  He  was,  after  all,  a  famously  heavy-drinker 
and  all-night  carouser  -  did  his  teenage  nom  de  plume  Dr.  Sleepy-head  8 
t&Tfe^fe  mean  he  preferred  to  sleep  by  day?  —and  his  late-night  kyoka 
parties  required  the  participation  of  others  of  the  warrior  class  as  well. 
Both  his  livelihood  and  his  lifestyle  would  have  been  affected.  This  is  his: 

hito  wa  mina  oki-izuru  sono  akatsuki  ni  shoben  o  shite  nuru  zo  tanoshiki  shokusanjin 
people-as-for  all  waking-go-out  that  dawn-in/at  piss+acc  doing  sleep+emph  delightful 

As  day  dawns,  the  whole  world  rises  and  out  they  head, 
What  a  delight  to  take  a  piss,  then,  and  go  to  bed! 

Moreover,  the  exquisite  combination  of  puns,  one  natural  ("trifling,"  ka- 
hodo,  is  idiomatically  "mosquito-amount!")  to  improve  the  telling  artifice 
(bunbu)  is  indeed  signature  Ota.  This  next,  too,  is  attributed  to  him. 

magarite  mo  shakushi  wa  mono  o  sukuu  nari  sugu  nayo  demo  tsubusu  surikogi 
bent  even/though  ladle-as-for  things  scoop-up  is;  straight  appear  even  crushing  pestle 

It  can  scoop  as  much  as  it  is  able,  because  it 's  bent,  the  ladle; 
Straightened  out,  you  get  a  tool  to  grind  and  crush  -  a  pestle. 

The  Kansei  Reform  was  accused  of  harming  rather  than  helping  the  people. 
Bent  means  crooked  or  corrupt  and  Now,  three  more  rakushu.  Sukuu,  or 
"scoop"  is  a  homophone  for  "help."  The  first  probably  never  left  Issa's 
journal  {~X$k/n]§k  6.8);  the  second  is  well-known;  the  third  is  courtesy  of 
the  world-wide  web. 

ishi  hakobi  nageki  koritsutsu  shimejino  no  hito  no  abura  ni  hikaru  shiro  kana  issa 
stone-carrying  lamenting-while  marked-off  fields'  peoples'  oil  by  shines  castle! 

Carrying  stones  and  chopping  trees,  lamenting  keep-out  signs 
But  elbow  oil,  grease  of  man  -  that's  why  this  castle  shines! 


shirakawa  no  kiyoki  ni  no  mo  sumi-kanete  moto  no  nigori  no  tanuma  koishiki 
white-river  clean/refreshing-in  fish  even  live-cannot  origl.  murky  paddy-marsh  miss 

It's  hard  to  live  in  clean  fast-waters,  even  for  fish: 
They  miss  their  paddy-marsh  comfortably  brackish. 


omatsuri  wa  medetai  ara  no  osuimono  dashi  bakari  nite  mi  dokoro  wa  nashi  anon 
hon+festival-as-for  joyous  fishbone  soup  stock  alone-with  condiments  place-as4  not 

The  festival,  once  such  a  joy,  is  New  Year's  soup:  all  stock. 
No  goodies  but  float  to  greet  the  eye.  The  rest  is  under  lock. 

Issa  (last  page)  uses  an  old  waka  pun  on  tree-cutting=lament  (nageki).  A 
preface  notes  the  castle  was  Minister  Tanuma's  doing.  The  second  poem 
looks  back  on  that  corrupt  but  thriving  time.  Shirakawa=white-water  was 
an  a.k.a.  for  the  clean  new  Reformer,  and  "paddy-marsh"  the  meaning  of 
Tanuma,  the  corrupt  minister-developer  whose  lax/tolerant  policies 
sparked  a  literary  explosion  including  Tenmei  kyoka.  The  well-known 
poem  holds  water  but,  like  Issa's,  is  poor  poetry,  while  the  last  squib  is  a 
masterpiece  -  perhaps  one  of  the  top  Tenmei  kyoka  masters  composed  it. 
The  basic  float  shouldered  by  the  men  of  a  shrine,  written  "mountain- 
car,"  is  pronounced  dashi,  as  is  soup  stock.  The  missing  condiments  (there 
is  a  hint  of  sea  bream)  and  seeing  are  both  mi,  and  refer  to  the  dance 
floats/stages  IS  9  1b,  million  lantern  floats  7f  jfcT  f?,  bottomless  floats  f&ik 
M  entertainment  tents  &  other  such  extras  that  the  dastardly  new  "MJkl^^- 
1791  sumptuary  laws  forbade  the  (Edo  ward)  Kanda  Myojin  Festival. 

taihei  no  nemuri  o  samasu  jokisen  tatta  yon  hai  de  yoru  mo  nemurezu  anon.  1853 
indolence/pacific  sleep-from  wake  jokisen(tea)/steam-ship  just  4cups/ships-from  night=world  sleep-can't 

Stolid  folk  may  be  roused  from  their  slumber  - 
Just  four  packets  of  Joy  Tea  to  stay  up  all  night. 

The  Pacific  ocean  has  awoken  from  its  slumber, 
Just  4  steam  ships  &  the  world  can  get  no  sleep. 

This  anonymous  masterpiece,  in  every  textbook  of  the  Opening  of  Japan, 
is  surely  the  best  known  rakushu.  This  was  a  time  when  fearless  Japanese 
fishermen  tossed  pornographic  picture-books  up  to  the  delighted  Yankee 
seamen  (to  the  prissy  officers'  disgust  and  chaplain's  outrage)  and  traded 
fish  for  whatever  novelties  they  might  obtain  in  exchange,  while  the  rest 
of  the  country  was  thrown  into  a  tizzy  as  terrified  land  and  tradition-bound 
authorities  and  those  who  served  them  worked  round  the  clock  to  throw  up 


ramparts  of  fake  forts  on  the  hills  overlooking  the  river  Perry  ascended.  It 
would  seem  only  two  of  the  four  "black  ships"  were  steam-powered  and 
even  those  were  only  partly  steam-powered  to  supplement  the  sails,  but  no 
matter,  the  fact  Japanese  already  had  a  word  for  such  ships,  jokisen,  that 
could  be  punned  into  the  name-brand  tea  Jokisen  (up-joy-select),  is  in 
itself  proof  of  how  ready  Japan  was  for  the  greater  world.  So,  now  that  we 
have  seen  the  best-known  squibs,  let  us  go  back  to  some  that  are 
recognized  and  reprinted  but  not  commonly  encountered. 

kingin  o  tsukai-sutetaru  uma-zoroe  shogi  ni  nitaru  6  no  mimono  anrakuan  sakuden  1623 
gold  silver+acc  using-throw-away  horse-parade  shogi/chess-to  resembles  king's  spectacle 

Gold  and  silver  thrown  away  for  what!  Horse  play? 
Royal  spectacle  indeed!  A  chessboard  walks  today. 

In  spring  1581,  Japan's  first  unifier  Nobunaga  put  on  the  most  spectacular 
parade  ever  seen  in  Japan.  The  generalissimo  rode  his  favorite  recent  gift 
from  the  West,  a  magnificent  Arabian  the  Visitador  Valignano  S.J.  had 
obtained  for  him,  in  the  horse  parade,  &  showed-off  his  borrowed 
Africans  (men).  The  original  metaphor  is  shogi,  like  chess,  a  variant  of 
the  second  best  board  game  (go  is  the  best),  including  knights  &  elephants 
(castle).  The  poem,  netted  on  the  web,  is  credited  to  Anraku  Sakuden.  That 
means  it  was  likely  put  into  the  mouth  of  a  character  in  his  1623  book 
Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep.  Nobunaga  had  a  famously  short  temper.  Had 
Sakuden  posted  the  poem  back  then,  he  would  not  have  lived  to  become 
Japan's  greatest  comic  story-teller. 

hanayori  mo  dango  no  kyo  to  narinikeri  kyo  mo  ishi  ishi  asu  mo  ishi  ishi  anon  jjtijsfEj 
blossom-more-than-dumpling-capital  has  become!  today  ishi  x  2  tomorrow  ishi  x  2 

In  Kyoto  has  it  come  to  pass  that  dumplings  beat  blossoms,  at  last? 
Today,  it's  "ishi!""  ishi!"  and  tomorrow  will  be  no  ishier! 

Nobunaga,  not  knowing  he  would  soon  be  assassinated,  set  about  making 
the  mother  of  all  castles  for  his  selected  heir  in  1569.  It  was  like  building 
a  pyramid,  though  this  king,  unlike  a  pharaoh,  tied  a  tiger  hide  to  his  waist 
he  could  sit  upon,  and  played  foreman,  barking  orders  himself.  Stone  is 
ishi.  So,  too,  dumplings  (usually  dango)  in  wifely  argot  (fzMM),  as  is  the 
pronunciation  of  oishi  or  "yummy"  in  this  capital  city  famed  for  its 
flowers  more  than  wealth  or  food  (which  mercantile  Osaka  boasted).  As  a 
laid-back  place,  it  was  the  antithesis  of  the  saying  "dumplings  beat 
blossoms"  or  food  over  bloom.  All  this  noisy  stone-moving  activity, 
evoked  by  the  triple  pun  ishi  used  as  a  mimetic  adverb,  evidently  bothered 


the  anonymous  poet,  as  did  the  hardening  of  what  had  been  the  soft  capital 
(except  for  the  mountains  of  warrior  monks  Nobunaga  slaughtered). 


taiko  no  moto  wa  kikedo  nukamiso  ni  uchi-tsuker arete  shio-shio  to  naru  takuan 
daikon(hideyoshi)'s  basis-as-for  asked-if,  nuka-miso-in  throw-soak/pickled  limp  becomes 

You  ask  about  making  daikon  pickles?  Thrown  into  nuka  miso,  they  become  soft. 
♦  ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ 

You  ask  about  Hideyoshi 's  situation?  Ieyasu  pickled  him,  and  he 's  turned  softy. 

Takuan  made  this  allegorical  report  to  a  friend  about  Nobunaga 's  succes- 
sor :  Taiko  "imperial  advisor,"  the  title  the  late- 16c  unifying  shogun 
Hideyoshi  gave  himself.  Daiko  is  colloquial  for  daikon,  huge  radish.  The 
character  for  nuka  (nuka-miso  salted  rice  bran  paste)  is  U;  the  second  for 
Ieyasu,  founder  of  the  succeeding  Tokugawa  dynasty,  was  M.  The  first 
name  pun  requires  the  mind's  ear;  the  second  its  eye.  *  Takuan  is  a 
yellowish  daikon  pickle;  one  etymology  credits  the  crotch-scratching 
monk  (1573-1645)  w/  its  invention.  If  shared,  it  could  have  been  a  squib. 

ue  kara  wa  meiji  da  nado  to  iu  keredo  osamarumei  to  shita  kara  wa  yomu 
above-from-as-for  meiji  is  etc.  said,  but  control-not  as  below-from  read 

Though  from  above,  Meiji  reads  meiji,  i.e.,  "brilliant  rule"  — 
From  below,  it's  osamarumei:  "Control?  Who  do  they  think  they  fool!" 

After  centuries  of  shogunate  rule,  the  creation  of  an  Imperial  state  with 
democratic  features  and  a  mandate  to  modernize  before  colonialization  by 
the  Occident  was  not  easy.  As  always,  folk  suffered.  One  way  to  show 
resentment  was  to  mess  with  names.  The  new  era  of  Meiji  ^^(1868-1912) 
was  reversed 7pK,  which,  with  vertical  writing,  is  to  say  turned  upside- 
down.  It  is  also  pronounced  in  the  native  Japanese  way  rather  than 
Chinese-style  which  brings  out  the  meaning  of  the  characters. 


So  much  for  classic  squib.  I  am  more  interested  in  personal  than  public 
kyoka.  Unfortunately,  most  are  mostly  hidden  away  in  journals  and  diaries. 
Only  one  theme  stands  out  for  being  personal  yet  of  public  enough  to  have 
been  posted  or  sent  around.  What  is  it?  Kabuki  actors.  Japanese  really, 
really  got  excited  about  them.  The  740-page  monster  boasts  several 
borrowed  from  19c  surimono  (found  in  books  by  McKee  and/or  Carpenter 
who  have  more).  Here,  we  shall  see  just  one,  a  rare  old  example  by  the 
master  of  light  kyoka  with  whom  we  began  this  essay. 


mata  to  yo  ni  aru  mono  de  nai  kako  mirai  genzaemon  ga  mai  no  narifuri  bokuyo  h  Jiffif^m 
again  world-in  exist  thing-as4  not,  past  future  genzae=present=mon's  dancing/acting's  appearance/moves 


"Genzaemon 's  appearance  is  something  extraordinarily  special  that  would  never  be  seen 
in  the  past,  in  the  future,  and  in  the  present.  "  —  Takanashi's  working  translation. 


This  is  the  first  example  of  a  kanji  pun  in  the  analysis  section  of  a  paper  by 
linguist  Takanashi  Hiroko  about  the  relationship  of  orthography  (in 
Japanese,  various  scripts  for  writing  words),  and  the  cognition  of  puns.  It 
is  one  of  Bokuyo's  trickiest  poems  and  the  sort  of  thing  that  might  be 
posted  as  a  broadside.  Addressing  the  specifics  of  the  poem.  1)  The 
"present"  hiding  in  the  Genzaemon 's  name  is  properly  genzai,  but  i  and  e 
sounds  are  indistinguishable  in  parts  of  Japan  so  the  pun  is  tighter  than  it 
seems.  2)  The  incorporation  of  philosophical  (?)  terms  for  time  rather  than 
the  usual  literary  rhetoric  Iff  $6  %.  kuzenzetsugo,  air/vacuum-before 
extinct-after  {i.e.,  an  exceptional  skill  or  event)  to  pun  into  what  was 
present  in  the  actor's  name  is  extraordinary.  3)  My  pun  on  "again"  (a 
genzaemon)  did  not  so  much  translate  as  replace  the  original  (as  logic 
demands  an  "elsewhere"  added  to  "in  the  present.").  Call  it  "lost  &  found  in 
translation."  4)  While  mai  means  dance/s,  it  is  dance-as-performance  (opp. 
odori,  religious  or  social  dancing).  A  kabuki  performance  is  wholly  stylized 
movement,  which  could  with  equal  justice  be  called  acting  or  dance.  Mai 
is  movement-oriented,  so  I  compromised  with  mannerisms  for  my  first 
reading  while  maintaining  the  continuous  flow  of  the  original  with  the 
help  of  a  poor  pun  for  the  sake  of  rhyme  in  the  second.  5)  No  foreign 
words  are  in  the  original,  but  Bokuyo  sometimes  used  them,  so  


P  Buddha's  Head.  Bokuyo's  poem  on  the  quake-felled  head  as  a  sleeping  Buddha 
gets  a  take-off  encore  nine  years  after  his  death  in  a  kyoka  baedecker ^ffeBfftSElK 
h  book  about  returning  home  to  Edo  ijcU'B (D'KP^  (1687).  Titled  M&^g/u 
toeizan  or  Eastern  Mount  Hei:  fRj®E{A<7)^ <  HimKi2l~i./u^:  5  jlfiW?  L 
Ay/^cfA  shaka  butsu  no  mikushi  wa  mae  ni  jobutsu  kore  zo  makoto  no  jishin  seibutsu. 
I  am  not  sure  I  get  it,  so  discussion  will  await  a  future  edition. 


Narihira  could  pass  for  a  woman  in  writing,  but 
who  could  pass  in  person  like  our  kabuki  star! 


There  never  was 
and  never  a  Genzaemon 's 
likes  we  '11  see  - 


Will  there  ever 
a  genzaemon  be,  and  was 
there  ever  one 
whose  dance  soi  disant 
was  un,  dos,  tres  .  .  bonl 


Mannerisms  tres  bon, 
he 's  soi-disant  it  cannot  be! 


^  Squib  Excerpts  from  "Parrot  Cage  Records,  or  "Reports  from  the  Parrot's 
Cage"  6mur6chu-ki  1684-1717  i!HH  ^ IB Asahi  Bunzaemon's  Journals, 
in  the  ##).  I  cannot  tell  how  many  if  any  of  the  poems  he  wrote  for  I 

have  not  seen  the  journal,  itself,  but  only  what  Broadview  excerpts,  namely  the 
poems  and  a  bit  of  a  preface  for  some.  I  follow  the  pronunciation  of  Asahi's  name 
most  common  on  the  net,  but  have  also  seen  it  as  Monzaemon. 


Extreme  Hyperbole,  or  Unbeatable  Metaphor 

tp  £  Li? \z.  a  f£      f  3  if  (D  m  ffite  h € X  <D  ft  tp^  C  <D  if  k  a  s  ±Jmi§:  tc^  3 


musashino  ni  habakaru  hodo  no  uchiwa  gana  aogite  nokemu  fuji  no  murakumo  getsudoken 
musashi  moor-with  extend  amount's  fan  wish(for),  fanning  drive-off  fuji's  flocking-clouds 

Give  me  a  fan  as  wide  as  Musashi,  the  more  to  move  the  air! 
You  see  Mount  Fuji 's  clouds?  I'd  blast  them  out  of  there! 

This,  Getsudoken's  'test-brush'  f$3f,  or  first-writing  of  1691,  is  the  poem 
behind  the  title  of  his  book  with  over  2,000  of  his  kyoka  written  from 
1691-1703.  If  you  recall,  Japanese  desired  to  start  off  the  year  ambitiously 
by  seeing  Fuji,  if  only  in  a  dream,  and  this  moor  from  where  it  could  be 
seen  on  a  clear  day,  was  famous  for  being  the  most  open  space  in  Japan, 
one  from  which  no  celestial  object  is  blocked  from  view.  An  Issa  kyoku 
points  out  that  not  one  dog  poo  is  not  stabbed  by  a  moon-beam  ip  $  L©^3 
j\(D  ^L^^H)  M  ^  LT  musashino  ya  inu  no  koka  mo  tsuki  sashite).  The  title  of 
the  book  reflects  the  poet's  unabashed  love  for  hyperbole  and,  perhaps  his 
aim  to  think  lofty  and  live  large.  What  makes  Getsudoken's  kyoka  special 
is  the  combination  of  wish  and  hyperbole.  Most  hyperbole  is  imaginative 
description.  Here  is  a  typical  yet  exceedingly  sharp  example: 


kamisori  no  ha  yori  mo  usuki  eri  o  kite  kubi  no  kirenu  wa  fushigi  narikeri  chikusai 
razor's  blade  morethan  thin  collar+acc  wearing,  neck  cut-not-as-for  strange  is!  1623? 


Who  knows  if  the  author  of  the  Tales  of  Chikusai  the  fictional  wandering 
kyoka  master  was  himself  poor,  but  this  hyperbole  certainly  suggests  it. 
When  one's  possessions  can  fit  in  a  matchbox,  or  be  carried  out  under 
one's  finger  nails,  such  clever  words  are  all  one  has  to  enjoy  or  even  boast, 
and  thinking  one  has  gained  something  from  one's  suffering,  though  it  be 
no  more  than  a  good  hyperbole,  makes  it  seem  almost  worthwhile.  Blues 
and  hyperbole  go  together  and  prove  what  the  intelligent  poor  realize: 
catharsis  comes  from  laughter  as  well  as  tears.  Now,  as  it  so  happens, 
there  is  a  charming  kyoka  by  a  friend  of  Shokusanjin,  a  particularly  large 
man  living  in  a  tiny  rented  house  -  and  Japanese  interior  dimensions  are 
tiny  to  begin  with  -  that  uses  the  closest  thing  Japanese  had  to  a  match- 
box, a  fire-striking  box  (hi-uchi-bako)  as  a  hyperbolic  metaphor.  The  box 


Wearing  a  collar 
worn  thinner  than  the  edge 
of  a  razor  blade 

It 's  a  wonder  my  head 
still  sits  on  my  neck! 


With  my  collar 
thinner  than  a  razor  blade 
This  news  of  note 

It's  nothing  but  miraculous 
I  have  yet  to  cut  my  throat. 


124 


kept  a  flintstone  and  a  piece  of  metal  -  see  Topsy-turvy  1585  (another  740- 
page  monster  of  mine)  ch.  14-1  ("We  [Europeans]  strike  the  fire  with  our 
right  hand  and  hold  the  flint  in  the  left;  they  [Japanese]  strike  with  the  left 
hand  and  hold  the  flint  with  the  right)  for  the  details,  which  happen  to  be 
amazing  -  there  are  good  reasons  for  the  reversal  and  sparks  were  also  put 
to  literally  charming  uses!  Be  that  as  it  may,  the  kyoka  poet  did  not,  ala 
bluesman,  keep  his  possessions  in  that  box.  He  lived  in  that  fire-striking 
box  -  not  to  be  confused  for  a  tinder-box,  though  it  probably  was  -  and 
joked,  playing  on  what  must  have  been  a  brand-name,  Fuji,  about  its  being 
an  "inexhaustible"  or  "none-like-it"  source  of  fire  (Mount  Fuji  may  be 
written  as  "inexhaustible"  or  as  "not-two"  so  these  are  among  its 
connotations  -  a  hell  of  a  way  to  gain  meanings  isn't  it!).  Why?  Because 
he  kept  striking  his  head  on  the  door  and  window  frames  so  sparks  flew 
from  his  eyes!  Unfortunately,  despite  the  common  connotation  of  "strike," 
the  poem  won't  English  for  lack  of  a  common  idiom.  To  keep  the 
hyperbole  witty,  we  must  change  it  by  turning  that  house  into  something 
other  than  a  matchbox: 

ttm^tZ-t^(D^(D!k^m^hX^Xnt^'X^^  ±WMfe  d.  1810 
kono  ie  wa  tatoe  no  fuji  no  hi-uchi-bako  kamachi  de  uchite  me  kara  hi  ga  deru  oya  urazumi 
this  house-as-for  proverbial  Fuji  fire-strike-box  sickle=>door-frame-w/  strikng  eyes-frm  fire  comesout 

Life  in  a  flat  no  bigger  than  a  closet  observatory  — 
If  I  but  turn  about,  I  hit  my  head  and  see  stars. 

When  our  heads  strike  things  we  do  not  see  sparks,  but  stars.  Obviously, 
the  hyperbole  has  diminished  but  the  larger  allegory  has  been  saved  in 
form  if  not  in  content.  Still  the  balance  of  puns  leaves  English  in  the  red. 
In  the  original,  the  frame,  or  kamachi,  includes,  or  rather,  starts  with  a  pun 
on  sickle,  or  kama,  pieces  of  which  were  typically  used  for  the  metal. 


Getsudoken's  fan  and  the  above  indicators  of  poverty  are  anomalous,  or  at 
least  a  rare  examples  of  hyperbole  hard  to  fit  into  any  other  chapter.  Most 
hyperbole  is  more  a  means  than  an  end;  it  serves  to  develop  other  themes, 
and  gathering  the  best  would  strip  other  chapters  of  some  of  their  most 
interesting  poems.  Several  pages  of  examples  that  were  in  the  first  draft 
of  this  chapter  have  just  been  removed  for  that  reason.  In  other  words,  this 
chapter  is  cancelled.  If  you  would  see  a  large  sampling  of  Japanese 
hyperbole  gathered  together,  search  for  Blyth's  books  of  translated  old 
haiku.  In  one  of  his  two  major  series,  he  gives  fifty  or  a  hundred  haiku 
about  summer  heat,  one  after  another.  There  you  will  find  it  in  the  form  of 
"as  hot  as  "  this  or  that.  As  for  kyoka  hyperbole,  summer  heat  would  not 


125 


seem  to  be  a  favorite  subject  perhaps  because  early  mad  poets,  being 
aristocrats  vacationed  in  the  summer  and  the  later  mad  poets  did  not  care 
to  play  second  fiddle  to  haikai.  However,  there  seems  to  have  been  kyoka 
hyperbole  contests  on  particular  subjects  not  all  of  which  were  found  in 
haikai.  At  this  time,  your  translator  does  not  know  how  many  of  such 
made  it  into  print  and  of  those,  how  many  are  real  and  how  many  are 
fictional,  i.e.,  created  by  the  authors  of  the  story  books  that  tend  to  have 
them.  Here  are  three  from  a  half-dozen  coming  from  a  book  of  essays  that 
appeared  together  in  the  Dictionary  of  Kyoka  Appreciation.  They  contest 
smallness  and  recall  the  contrary  metaphor  of  tall-tales  boasting  gigantic 
creatures  and  natural  powers  -  Davy  Crockett  riding  twisters  and  lassoing 
the  moon,  etc.  -  in  19c  Usania. 

keshi  tsubu  no  naka  kuriagete  do  tatete  itoma  kakote  tenarai  o  sen  from  rizai  essays  c.  1830? 
poppy  seed's  inside  scooping-out  temple/hall  building  one-room  surrounded  brush-practice  do-will 

I'd  excavate  a  poppy  seed  to  raise  a  mighty  edifice 
w/  a  room  of  my  own  where  I  might  sit  &  edit  this! 

kamisuji  o  sen-suji  ni  wakete  men  o  tori  sono  kage  ni  sumu  kimi  zo  koishiki  ditto 
hair-strand+acc  1000-strands-into  splitting  finishing  that  shade/thanks-in  live  you/love+emph.  dear 

One  strand  of  your  hair  into  a  thousand  I'd  split,  plane  &  finish 
a  shack  to  live  in  the  shade  of  this  love  that  won 't  diminish! 

ka  no  kobosu  namida  no  umi  no  ukijima  de  isago  hiroute  chichi  ni  kudakan  anonymous 
mosquito's  dropping  tear's/s'sea-on  floating-island-on  sand  pick-up  a  1000  pieces-into  break-would 

One  grain  of  sand  from  the  shore  of  an  isle  in  a  sea 
of  tears  shed  by  mosquitoes  I'd  break  into  a  thousand  pieces 

Into  a  thousand  bits  I'd  break  one  grain  of  sand  from  the  shore 
of  an  isle  in  the  sea  made  of  one  mosquito  tear-drop. 

The  first  creates  a  tiny  room  of  his  own  for  writing,  or  brush  practice. 
Please  pardon  your  translator's  editorial  reading.  The  second  in  the 
original  ends  in  a  boring  "you  are  so  dear!"  The  third,  in  the  original,  starts 
with  a  common  metaphor  -  a  minute  quantity  of  something,  such  as  say 
pity,  or  a  donation,  might  be  called  tear/s  of  a  mosquito  -  which  it  takes 
literally  to  create  its  fantasy.  This  poem  was  said  to  have  been  composed 
for  a  contest,  or  rather  for  a  prize,  judged  by  the  Shogun  Hideyoshi.  If  you 
want  a  rhyme  on  the  last  reading,  just  add  "  no  more  "  to  the  "tear-drop.  " 


126 


P  Something  Akin  to  Hyperbole  that  also  might  have  had  a  chapter:  call  it  Mad 
Metaphor.  One  example  found  in  a  1679  kyoka  anthology: 

takuri-hokuri  wa  kite  zato  no  yuki-kouru  tsueya  kurage  no  ebi  no  me  naran  yuwa 

The  Troupe  Head  Mil  I.e.,  Blind  Man 

Clickity-pop  down  the  street,  the  blind  troupe  leader  glides ; 
As  a  jellyfish,  his  cane  would  be  the  shrimp  -  its  eyes! 

Shrimp  are  sometimes  found  hanging  out  convivially  between  jellyfish  tentacles. 
Shogakukan's  OJD  (B^Hfp^Sfft)  defines  'the  jellyfish's  shrimp'  as  a  metaphor 
for  the  blind  leading  the  blind,  but  that  I  believe  is  wrong;  Shogakukan's  large 
proverb  dictionary,  including  the  same  example,  correctly  defines  it  as  individuals  of 
different  abilities  combining  to  make  do.  The  kyoka,  obviously,  followed  the  correct 
interpretation.  Jellyfish  (kurage)  was  homophonous  with  darkness  and  idiomatic  for 
being  blind.  (See  Rise,  Ye  Sea  Slugs!  2003  for  some  waka  on  darkness  and  the  moon 
jellyfish). 

If  hyperbole  is  exaggeration,  mad  metaphor  is  an  unlikely  association. 

P  1691.  The  first  year  of  Getsuddken's  Big  Fan  kyoka  journal.  The  Japanese  date 
is  Genroku  3.  To  Japanese,  the  Genroku  era  means  Basho.  This  was  three  years 
before  the  haikai-master's  death  at  age  50. 

P  Hyperbole  Matches.  Japan  did  not  only  have  "small-tales,"  if  I  can  coin  a  word, 
but  tall-tales,  for  there  are  folk  song  ditties  that  play  with  the  colossal  Buddha  statue 
engaged  in  Gargantuan  antics.  Expect  more  examples  of  hyperbole  for  hyperbole's 
sake  in  a  future  edition. 


Mad,  Madder,  Maddest  Benedictions  of  Them  All 

9 tm&$i'om<m^  •  -t^mt^mbti-r  fouin^  1750- 

gururi  to  ie  o  torimaku  binbogami  •  shichifukukami  wa  soto  e  derarezu  Sengai  -1837 
circling  house+acc  taking-wrap  poverty-god  //  seven  happy/wealthy  gods-as-for  outside-to  leave-cannot 

Asked  for  a  benediction  for  a  new  house,  Monk  Sengai  (1751-1837)  sang  out: 

God  Poverty  God  Poverty 

encircles  this  house  encircles  this  home 

like  a  sleeve!  like  a  wall! 


Then,  after  the  shocked  owner  complained  of  the  apparent  malediction, 

So  the  Seven  Gods  of  The  7  Gods  of  Fortune, 

Good  Fortune  cannot  leave!  They  cannot  leave  at  all! 

One  of  the  informal  duties  of  any  poet  of  repute  was  gracing  new  houses, 
births  and  other  things  or  events  with  poems  serving  as  benedictions, 
talismans,  mementos,  decoration  or  even  certificates  or  testimonials. 
Blessing  was  more  a  Shinto  than  a  Buddhist  duty,  but  a  poet-bonze, 
especially  one  with  interesting  ideas  and  writing,  would  always  be  in 
demand  (Unlike  Occidental  calligraphy  that  is  almost  always  neat  and 
ornate  craftwork,  brushed  Japanese  shares  more  with  good  impressionist, 
cubic  and  otherwise  partially  abstract  fine  art.  Hence,  I  avoid  the  word 
"calligraphy").  In  Sengai's  case,  despite  his  messiness  -  his  letters  and 
pictures  often  resemble  a  child's  -  he  was  so  popular  the  folk  for  miles 
and  miles  around  came  bearing  paper  for  him  to  fill  in  and  return. 
Apparently,  Japanese  also  brought  their  own  paper  to  toilets,  so  Sengai 
wrote  a  kyoka  complaining  that  people  confused  his  hut  for  a  water-closet. 
That  and  a  whole  chapter  on  Poverty  God/s  may  be  found  in  the  740-page 
Monster,  so  there  is  no  need  to  say  more  here  than  affirm  that  both  sorts  of 
gods  were  part  of  popular  culture.  Stylewise,  the  one-man  cap-verse  - 
should  we  say  with  a  waiting  time  in  mid-poem  rather  than  just  a  caesura? 
-  may  not  be  that  uncommon  in  books  of  comic  stories.  Despite  having 
read  few  stories,  your  translator  knows  another  such  -  a  version  of  the  40- 
year-old  chickadee  (pg.208).  But  it  is  a  good  bet  that  few  if  any  of  these 
will  be  as  surprising  as  this  flower  of  off-the-wall  logic. 

The  following  page  will  start  with  a  very  different  house-opening 
benediction,  or  charm,  haiku-master  Issa  wrote  for  a  friend.  It  is  one  of  a 
score  of  3 1  -mora  poems  composed  five  months  after  he  read  kyoka 's  first- 
man,  his  contemporary  Shokusanjin.  Issa's  kyoka  were,  on  the  whole,  less 
successful  than  his  haiku,  but  this  one  is  a  masterpiece  that  would  have 
been  in  included  in  anthologies  of  kyoka  had  he  been  a  kyoka  poet. 


ff^s  m&h<D^(Dm\z.Mmx  m^^^mm^^  ^10/3 

amaochi  no  ishi  no  hekomi  ni  izumi  wakite  kumiidomo  tsukinu  onsumai  kana  issa  d.  1 827 
rain-fall-stone's  indention-in  spring  bubbles-up  ladle  though  exhaust-not  hon.  dwelling! 

P  Presented  for  a  New  House  P 

May  a  sweet-water  spring  bubble  from  the  rain-catch  stone 
Filling  ladles  and  never  running  dry  at  this,  your  home! 

The  stone  stops  roof-gutter  rain  from  eating  away  at  the  foundations  and, 
over  time,  visibly  indents  the  stone.  Unlike  pebbles  that  really  can  grow 
into  boulders  if  they  are  coral,  for  a  stone  of  any  sort  to  not  only  indent  but 
become  a  spring  would  take  .  .  .  forever. 

waga  kimi  wa  chiyo  niyachiyo  ni  sazareishi  no  iwa  hodo  tonarite  koke  no  musu  made  anon 
my  lord/you-as-4,  1000-ages  8000  ages,  pebble/s'  boulder/s-into  becoming,  moss  grows  until 

Long  live  my  Lord, 
1000  reigns,  8000  reigns, 

Until  our  pebbles 

into  giant  boulders  grown, 
boast  each  a  mossy  crown! 

Until  deciding  to  follow  up  Issa's  kyoka  with  this  Kokinshu  poem  that 
doubtless  helped  to  inspire  him  to  hyperbolize,  I  thought  to  have  two 
chapters,  one  for  charms  and  one  for  celebration,  but  on  second  thought, 
realized  they  really  cannot  be  separated  as  they  often  come  together.  If 
you  celebrate  a  long  life  by  shouting  out  "Long  live  ~  !"  you  are  wishing  a 
person  to  live  longer  and  that  is  a  sort  of  charm,  is  it  not?  The  above  waka, 
famous  for  becoming  the  core  of  the  national  anthem  of  Japan  (though  it  is 
a  bit  closer  to  a  later  (f&zEH)  variant  starting  kimi  ga  yo,  "my  lord's 
reign")  ironically,  borrows  heavily  from  one  of  two  poems  lamenting  the 
drowning  death  of  a  pretty  maiden  in  the  8c  Manydshu:  "Let  my  girl's 
name  flow  down  a  thousand  reigns  until  the  buds  of  the  young  pines  of 
Princess  Island  are  solid  moss.  "  U^{X{Z.ffifri&^!lhP)zf-&^M^ 
pftpi"  imo  ga  na  wa  chiyo  ni  nagarema  himejima  no  komatsu  ga  ure  ni 

koke  musu  made  ni  mys  #228).  Young  pines  evoke  root-pulling  festivities 
and  roots,  sleeping  together,  while  musu,  the  verb  for  growing  moss  (or 
mold,  etc)  sounds  a  bit  like  musubu  or  unite,  so  we  feel  a  particularly  male 
chagrin  for  this  death.  The  girl  would  not  really  be  his  girl  friend,  for  the 
preface  mentions  an  otome,  or  maiden,  but  to  me,  the  phrase  conjures  up 
an  alternative  future  that  was  never  to  be.  Perhaps  I  complicate  matters  too 
much,  but  when  you  think  about  it,  invoking  the  power  of  poetry  to  extend 


129 


not  a  life  but  the  memory  of  someone  who  was  in  life  not  really  very 
famous  at  all  is  in  itself  odd.  It  is  possible  the  editor  of  the  Manydshu 
chuckled  as  he  chose  the  poem.  So  the  poem  is  not  altogether  different 
from  its  progeny  that  has  pebbles  growing  into  boulders.  As  you  might 
imagine,  Japanese  kyoka  poets  had  a  ball  with  that  surreal  growth.  The 
parodies  could  fill  a  book.  The  most  amusing  one,  by  the  bold  16c  wit 
Yuchoro,  is  a  malediction  rather  than  a  benediction,  but  I  will  present  it 
here  so  you  can  see  just  how  outrageous  early  kyoka  parody  could  be: 

kimi  ga  kao  chiyo  ni  hito-tabi  arau  rashi  yogore  yogorete  koke  no  musii  made  yuchoro 
your/lord/darling's  face  thousand-reigns-in  once  wash-seems,  soiling-soiling  moss  grows-till 

Princess,  your  face  looks  washed  but  once  in  a  1000  reigns 
Dirty!  Dirty!  I'll  be  blunt  -  Is  growing  moss  your  aim? 

You,  girl,  must  wash  your  face  but  once  in  a  1000  years, 
Dirtier,  dirtier,  any  day  the  moss  will  hide  your  ears! 

In  the  740-page  Monster  I  wrote  that  Yuchoro  took  off  from  the  older 
Manydshu  poem  and  a  later  Goishu  variant  of  the  pebble-to-boulder  waka, 
as  his  washing  is  close  to  flowing  and  only  a  thousand  (no  eight)  mentioned, 
but  I  now  think  the  "once  in  a  thousand"  and  growing  moss  combination 
proves  it  came  from  the  first  poem  in  the  Ryojin-hissho,  as  we  shall  soon 
see.  The  repeated  soiling,  soiling  (yogorete  yogorete)  cleverly  evokes 
pebbles  by  rhyming  with  something  they  were  known  to  do,  tumble. 
Tumbling,  tumbling  would  be  korogete,  korogete.  The  poem  following  the 
two  additional  readings  below  is  probably  Tenmei  era  (late- 18c)  and  is 
surely  the  most  beautiful  take-off  on  the  pebble-to-boulder  ever  written. 


You  Rock,  Girl! 


Roll  Not,  Stone! 


Your  face  it 's  plain 
has  only  been  washed  once 
in  a  1000  reigns 

Dirt  upon  dirt,  without  loss 
Until  we  celebrate  its  moss! 


Majesty 's  face 
washed  once  in  a  1000  reigns 
is  no  disgrace 

Dirt  upon  dirt  is  age 's  gain, 
Behold  the  verdant  moss  in  place! 


£  ±tl^(Dmtt£flZ)\h)\\Kilh(D¥-^m(Dm&    31  TEH  -^"rikkaen? 
sazare-ishi  no  iwa  to  narent  yamakawa  ni  sodachi  no  hayaki  ham  no  waka-ayu 
pebbles'  boulder-into  become  mount,  river-in  grow-up  quickly  spring's  young  sweetfish 

In  the  mountain  stream,  where  rocks  become  boulders  before  you  know, 
How  quickly  they,  too,  grow  -  the  young  sweetfish  of  spring! 


This  may  be  kidding  about  the  veracity  of  the  phenomenon  described  in 
the  old  poem  but  it  also  brings  something  to  it,  a  celebration  of  life,  which, 
when  you  think  about  it,  is  something  akin  to  a  pebble  growing  into  a 
boulder  (i.e.,  a  limited  sphere  of  reverse  entropy).  Here  are  two  kyoka 
parodies  of  the  pebble-to-boulder  poem  that  do  not  translate  well  but  merit 
a  mention.  One  is  almost  baroque  and  one  simplicity  itself.  Together,  they 
give  a  good  idea  of  the  range  of  classic  kyoka  parody: 

Eg.l,  by  haikai  poet  Ichu  (1638-1711)  "May  my  lord's  reign  of  men  drunk 
as  plovers,  coral  &  turban  shells;  /  Rolling  free  on  pointed  butt,  until  moss 
grows,  age  well! "  (Mtfftfe  ^IXi^h  <£  \z.  £  *WZ.  L  r  t  ^(Dfo 

t$lcf3  £Ei^ZE+A  TK2  kimi  ga  yo  wa  chiyo  ni  yachiyo  ni  sazai  ni  shi  koro- 
koro-koro  to  koke  no  musu  made).  The  obvious  pun  is  the  sazare-ishi  pebble 
becoming  a  sazai,  turban  shell  the  first  character  meaning  prosperity. 
Though  my  OJD  can  back  me  up,  my  pun  readings  of  chiyo  and  yachiyo 
("thousand  reigns,  eight  thousand  reigns")  are  riskier.  In  translation,  the 
take-off  veers  from  the  original.  In  Japanese,  they  are  close. 

Eg.2,  YusaiffiiS^  1534-1610,  the  top  waka  master  of  his  time  changed  the 
poem,  in  the  later  Goshui  version  starting  kimi  ga  yo,  by  just  one  syllabet, 
the  last.  The  made  t^C,  or  "until,"  becomes  mame,  "bean/s"  (fWH^fi  . . 

ttcotf-f  s£  ini!SiflTK2).  This  may  be  deliberately  risque  in  the 
facetious  way  of  the  fake  dirty  folk-song,  as  bean  can  mean  a  woman's 
bean,  the  clitoris,  but  there  was  a  confection  made  of  a  parched  bean 
wrapped  in  a  sheet  of  green  sea-laver  and  the  poem  was  an  impromptu, 
composed  when  such  was  offered  to  the  Imperial  prince  by  the  noble 
warrior-poetic <7) $PfiJ  (  fUtt^J  in^ffl#H  fm& ft<DM£.l  ). 

But  the  kyoka  poets  did  not  start  the  ball  rolling  with  the  famous  waka.  It 
first  provoked  more  subtle  parody  within  the  proper  world  of  waka  -  or  at 
least  some  recorded  in  the  minor  Fuboku  Wakasho  ^KsfcfuWitP  anthology. 

fukamidori  iwane  ga  ue  ni  musu  koke  ya  sora  ni  noboranu  keburi  naru  ran  masafusa 
deep-green  boulder's/s'  upon  well-up  moss!/?/:  sky-into  climb/rise-not  smoke  is!/:) 


toshi  hetaru  iwao  ga  ue  ni  yuki  furite  oi  ni  kerashi-na  koke  no  shira-hige  nakamasa 
years-passing  boulder's  upon  snow-falling  ages+emph.'s  moss'  white  whiskers 


Can  boulders  bubble-over  and  smoke  rise, 
but  not  into  sky?  Ask  the  dark  green  moss. 


Snow  falling  upon  an  august  boulder  shows  its  age; 
The  white-whiskered  moss  recalls  a  Chinese  sage. 


131 


Both  of  these  are  in  my  quick  and  loose  translation  aiming  at  capturing  the 
wit  without  losing  the  gentility  of  the  waka  style  and  little  else,  but  even 
looking  at  the  originals  it  is  hard  to  say  they  are  what  I  believe  they  are, 
subtle  parody,  as  they  play  less  with  words  than  with  ideas.  The  original 
source  of  the  second  (given  by  Fuboku  Ibid)  is  A  Hundred  Waka  on  Moss 
ISMK^PH#  If  llTp?  .  The  sage  is  my  mine. 

kimigayo  wa  chiyo  ni  hitotabi  iru  chiri  no  shirakumo  kakaru  yama  to  naru  made 
lord's  reign/times-as-for,  thousand-reigns/generations/ages-in  once  is  dust 
white-clouds  touching/positioned  mountain-as/into  become  until 

Until  fine  dust,  each  thousandth  year  adding  but  one  grain 
Builds  a  lofty  cloud-covered  mountain  -  may  you  reign! 

This  waka  (by  6e  Yoshitoki  ^ylUlt  according  to  the  1086  Goshuishu  Wi^M 
H),  presented  as  a  song,  is  the  very  first  item  in  the  Ryojin-hissho,  an 
anthology  of  11-  13c  popular  poetry  and  folk  song  edited  by  a  son  of 
retired  Emperor  and  poet  Go  Toba.  The  preface  to  the  Kokinshu  mentions 
dust  and  dirt  rising  up  from  the  fumoto  (base,  or  skirts)  to  build  a  lofty 
cloud-covered  mountain.  How  a  yet-to-be  mountain  has  such  a  fumoto  to 
grow  from  is  beyond  me  and  the  whole  idea  seems  even  less  probable  than 
pebbles  growing  into  boulders,  but  the  idea  did  not  suddenly  appear  from 
out  of  thin  air.  It  follows  the  poetic  observation  of  the  Chinese  sage  Po 
Chiii  (Ss$S^  772-846)  about  how  great  things  are  accomplished  bit  by  bit 
-  a  journey  of  a  thousand  leagues  starts  with  a  step  and  a  mountain  with  a 
speck  of  dust.  Then,  it  magnifies  the  time  period  by  required  for  that  to 
happen  by  allowing  just  one  grain  of  dust  to  accrue  every  thousand  years. 
Such  minute  change  occurring  at  large  intervals  comes  from  elsewhere, 
probably,  the  kalpa,  a  mind-boggling  large  unit  of  time  defined  as  that 
required  for  a  huge  stone  mountain  to  be  worn  to  nothing  by  the  slightest 
brushing  of  a  feather  upon  it  once  every  eon.  The  idea  of  measuring  a  long 
time  is  identical  to  that  of  a  kalpa  but  the  type  of  change  by  which  it  is 
measured  as  described  in  the  Ryojin-hissho  is  essentially  the  reverse  of 
that,  as  something  builds  up  rather  than  wears  down.  And,  that  poem  is 
probably  the  source  of  the  "once  in  a  thousand  years"  washing  concept  in 
Yuchoro's  dirty-face  parody. 

May  my  Lord's  Reign  so  free  of  dust  that  only  one  grain 
appears  in  a  thousand  years,  last  until  a  mountain  rises 
high  into  the  clouds  from  an  accumulation  of  the  same! 

For  reasons  beyond  the  purview  of  this  book,  the  translator  wonders  if  that 
once-in-a-thousand-years  idea  might  not  have  more  hidden  between  the 
lines.  "So  free  of  dust"  make  it  explicit.  If  such  a  conceptual  pivot  was 


really  intended  by  the  poet,  it  would  make  the  poem  one  of  the  most  clever 
waka  ever  written.  Ten-thousand  to  one  your  translator  thinks  too  much. 

watatsumi  no  kame  no  senaka  ni  iru  chiri  no  yama  to  nam  beki  kimigayo  kana 
ocean's  turtle's  back-on  is  dust/trash/mire-mountain-into  become-ought  lord's-reign! 

Like  the  chiri  on  the  back  of  the  turtle  afloat  on  the  main 
that  became  the  mountain  of  youth,  so,  too,  Your  Reign! 

The  idea  of  coral  as  a  possible  source  for  the  concept  of  a  growing  boulder 
was  an  idea  borrowed  from  modern  folklorists  interested  in  the  Southern 
or  oceanic  roots  of  Japan.  The  turtle  that  grows  into  the  magical  mountain 
of  everlasting  life,  Horai,  or  Merhu  is,  on  the  other  hand,  actually  found  in 
many  old  waka.  such  as  this  eulogy,  from  the  Tales  of  Eiga,  (1024-28). 
Chiri,  between  dust  and  trash,  is  not  as  clean  as  moss,  but  it  is  not  crud, 
either.  Would  "mire,"  whatever  it  is,  on  the  back  of  the  turtle  be  better? 

7i%)M<D;wtp&&  ^©sr.-t^^fe  ^^5i©it)  t)  fox  mm\ht 

WzMfflki'P  mango  kame  no  senaka  o  ba  oki  no  nami  koso  araurame 
ikanaru  chiri  no  tsumori  ite  horaisan  to  takakaran(?)  ryojinhisho  #317 
kalpa  turtle's  back+emph  sea's  waves/water  +emph  wash-wouldnot? 
how-much  dust's  piling  being  merhu-mt  as  tali-would? 

The  back  of  that  Kalpa  Turtle  out  at  sea? 
It  must  be  washed  by  waves,  and  constantly! 
What  dust  or  trash  would  stick  and  build  up  so 
that  into  high  Mount  Merhu  it  could  grow? 


That  Kalpa  Turtle,  is  the  mire  on  its  back  not  washed  by  the  ocean? 
For  it  to  grow  as  high  as  Merhu  .  .  .  now,  that's  an  odd  notion! 

This  7-5-7-5-7-5-7-5  song,  found  in  the  sundry  section  of  the  12c 
Ryojinhissho  is  not  a  charm.  It  shows  the  sort  of  good-natured,  logic-based 
iconoclasm  featured  in  our  "free-thinking"  kyoka  chapter.  Who  knows 
how  many  so-called  folk-songs  are  actually  composed  by  folk,  but,  do  not 
songs  such  as  this  at  least  suggest  that  the  rationalism  and  joy  in 
contradiction  Japanese  critics  and  annotators  tend  to  call  Chinese  or 
artificial  was  home-grown?  There  are  also  hard  to  categorize  waka 
touching  upon  that  dust.  One  of  the  thirteen  poems  on  chiri  in  the  1310 
Fuboku  anthology  asked  How  much  trash  and  how  many  mounds  must 
pile  up  before  /  Our  country  becomes  a  world  that  stays  for  ever  more?  (V N 

f=3  iku  chiri  no  yama  o  ikue  ni  kasanete  mo  ge  ni  waga  kuni  wa  ugoki  naki  yo  ni 
ato  ichijo?).  Without  knowing  more  of  the  poet  and  its  original  source  (f  I 


133 


HUr^Bfla  If)  it  is  hard  to  say  if  asking  (in  a  more  direct  translation) 
"how  many  mountains  of  trash  must  build  how  many  layers?"  is  comic, 
playing  with  the  metaphor  we  have  seen,  or  a  serious  observation  of  the 
mounds  which  may  be  seen  in  parts  of  Japan. 

kimigayo  wa  hikari  tsukisenu  hinomoto  ni  asa  tatsu  chiri  no  kazu  mo  e-shirazu  palace  woman 
lord's  reign-as4  light  exhausts-not  sun's-source-in  morning  rising  dust's  #  even  gainsay-not 

Morning  Observation 

In  this  land  of  the  sun  with  constant  light  even  dust  grains 
rise  up  beyond  number  to  illuminate  your  reign. 

A  light  play  on  the  famous  Manyo  kokumi  (Imperial  country-viewing  ritual) 
poem-as-benediction,  where  smoke  from  hearths  and  birds  rise  into  the 
sky.  This  is  a  benediction  but  just  odd  enough  for  bringing  in  the  dust  that 
in  this  translation  it  seems  a  kyoka.  Yet  the  original  is  so  much  more 
subtle  and  makes  such  a  good  observation  (why  the  word  was  added  to  the 
title)  that  it  probably  should  be  called  a  waka.  Regardless,  it  calls  for  our 
attention.  On  a  fine  day,  dust  in  sun-beams  looks  beautiful.  Who  has  never 
marveled  at  it?  Yet,  has  it  ever  been  celebrated?  The  poet  is  a  palace 
woman  (only  her  rank  is  given)  for  poet  Emperor  Hanazono  (1297-1348). 
And,  finally,  a  real  Tenmei  era  kyoka  to  end  this  section: 

yo  no  naka  no  chiri  shi  tsumorite  yama  to  naraba  yama-gomori  sen  chiri  no  kono  mi  mo 
world-within's  dust+emph  piling  mountain  becomes-if  mt.-hide-do-would  dust's  this-body/me  too 

♦  POSTED  ON  THE  DOOR  PILLAR  OF  ONE-NO-FUTOKI  ♦ 

If  plain  trash  grows  into  mountains,  I  am  a  sage! 
&  my  hermitage,  paper-hidden,  is  the  new  rage! 

As  Nada  Inada  points  out,  Shokusanjin  once  wrote  that  the  real  hermit  hid 
in  the  (bustling)  morning  market,  while  the  dewy  fields  were  good  for 
relieving  oneself  (XMMm^^h  V  s  WISfSSItfCfcfc  "9  ).  Here  was  a 
famously  messy  man  (  9  ^fStoTliiPB^j  tW)  in  cramped  urban 
quarters,  laughing  about  it.  My  "sage"  is  taken  from  an  unlikely  allusive 
pun  on  sen,  but  justifiable  to  bring  out  the  deeper  wit  of  the  poem  which, 
if  I  may  make  the  location  explicit,  may  also  be  read  such: 

Trash  builds  up  &  mountains  make  &  that  leaves  me 
Hidden  in  my  hermitage  in  the  middle  of  this  city. 


134 


££A©J;  L£  £<  JIT  J;  L£v^t>L      £  <£J:  £#A£<H 

jo&z  /z/7o  «o  jos1/*/  j;o&w  Amte  jos///  to  iishi  yoshino  yoku  miyo  yoki  hito  yoku  mi  emp.  tenmu 
good  people  good-as  good  looking  good-as  said  goodfield(yoshino)  good  look  good  people  good  look 

By  the  Emperor  when  He  Blessed  the  Goodfield  Shrine 


Good  people  took  a  good  look,  and  found  it  was  good: 
Take  a  good  look  at  Goodfield,  good  people,  look  good! 

good  men  took  a  good  look  and  finding  it  good  called  it  so 
take  a  good  look  at  goodfield  good  people  look  good  yo 


Tenmu  Tenno  ruled  from  672-694.  The  rolling  hills  that  would  become  the 
cherry  blossom  capital  of  Japan  may  also  be  translated  Finefield,  Lucky 
Moor  or  just  left  Yoshino.  "Blessed"  in  the  preface  is  a  literal  translation 
of  the  verb  used  for  an  Imperial  Visit.  It  is  a  fact  that  an  Imperial  visit 
anywhere  raised  the  stock  of  that  place  forever  and  ever,  but  as  this  was  - 
or  am  I  mistaken?  -  already  Imperial  property  on  Cloud  Nine,  perhaps  it 
actually  should  be  considered  a  benediction  for  the  facilities  and  the 
visitors.  In  that  sense,  it  is  an  early  example  of  the  literally  charming 
kyoka,  though  not  mad  for  an  Emperor  was  performing  his  role.  Be  sure 
and  read  this  poem  in  the  original  as  it  is  also  what  might  be  called  a 
wacky  waka  tongue-twister.  It  makes  one  wonder  the  age  of  the  Emperor. 
And,  also  note  how  the  poem  was  transcribed:  the  scribe,  counting  those 
goods,  wanted  to  make  good  on  them.  Here  is  the  original  transcription 
(the  above  is  the  yomikudashi,  rendering  into  modern  orthography  or  gloss 
that  is  all  most  read  today)  of  Manydshu  poem  #27: 

There  are  eight  -  suggestive  of  plentiful  -  repetitions  of  "good"  in  its 
adjectival  and  adverbial  (well/very/closely)  forms,  pronounced  yoshi,  yoki 
or  yoku,  of  which  seven  are  single  character  (5  different  and  2  repeated) 
and  one  two-character,  "four-come"  (good  people  coming  from  four 
directions,  good  luck  coming?)  the  number  of  which,  added  to  the  three 
following  it  gives  us  the  lucky  number  of  seven!  The  five  characters  each 
include  an  aspect  of  the  good  in  the  broadest  sense:  gentle/graceful  as  in  a 
gentleman  or  noblewoman,  good  as  in  plain  old  good,  lucky,  likeable,  and 
aromatic.  The  plain  old  good  P<.  and  the  lucky  ^  are  the  ones  repeated. 
We  might  note  the  latter  doubled  is  a  common  propitious  mark,  or  charm 
in  the  Sinosphere.  There  is  also  something  not  too  common  we  might  call 
stereo  transcription.  The  characters  sounding  out  yoshi  to  iishi  (good-as 
said)  or  "called  it  good,"  mean  "likeable  ordinary  /usual  word-master/s!" 


Praise  for  earlier  poet-namers?  For  the  Emperor?  Or  the  oral  (ktPcPIA  folk 
poet  who  sang  a  poem  (miyoshino  o  yoshi  to  .  .  .  c^Ir^^P  LV^)  of  which 
this  may  be  a  variation?  Together  with  the  first  poem  in  the  Manyoshu, 
where  name-asking  by  an  Emperor  is  glossed  as  desire  for  marriage  by 
clever  choice  of  a  way  to  spell  out  "beautiful  scoop  holding"  as  "wishing 
to  have  a  beautiful  spouse"  (H^fj^Sf),  also  in  the  third  clump  of 
characters,  this  is  a  good  example  of  the  audio-visual  fun/puns  Japanese 
have  enjoyed  with  their  writing  from  the  get-go.  Unlike  the  irregular  first 
poem  of  the  Manyoshu,  this  one  is  a  standard  31-syllabet  waka  in  form. 


Most  benedictions  are  New  Year's  poems  for  that  was  the  time  to 
celebrate  and  pray  for  the  longevity  of  all,  the  individual,  for  all  Japanese 
gain  a  year  as  the  calendar  does,  and  for  the  nation  that  equally  ages  and 
renews.  Even  pebble-to-boulder  and  Mt.  Merhu  kyoka  that  do  not  mention 
that  time  are  generally  considered  New  Year's  poems.  Many  of  the  haiku 
translated  for  my  book  on  the  Japanese  New  Year,  The  Fifth  Season, 
might  be  called  benedictions.  Let  me  settle  for  three  here  that  are  more 
enchanting  than  charming.  One  is  by  Teitoku,  who  helped  make  kyoka 
acceptable  as  a  genre.  One  by  Shiki,  who  discovered  that  most  old  hokku 
were  not  hokku  but  haiku.  And  one  by  Kyoshi,  who  ushered  in  modern 
haiku  after  Shiki  died. 


kesa  taruru  tsurara  ya  yodare  ushinotoshi  teitoku 


this  morning 
the  icicles  slobber 
year  of  the  cow 


dripping  icicles 
today,  call  them  slobber? 
year  of  the  ox 


hanaiki  ni  tonde  wa  karushi  takarabune 


treasure  ships 
how  swiftly  they  sail 
in  a  nose-wind 


on  mt.  feng-lai 
someone  says,  "i 'm  xu  fu 
is  it  a  mouse? 


who  calls  out 
i 'm  xu-fu  "  on  mt  feng-lai? 
why,  it's  a  mouse! 


136 


Explanations  for  these  poems  -  each  of  which  represents  a  theme  given  a 
whole  chapter  -  may  be  found  at  Google  Books,  where  all  of  my  work  in 
English,  including  this  one,  are  completely  readable.  I  think  of  all  of  them 
as  kyoku,  the  haiku  equivalent  of  kyoka,  but  that  is  one  person's  opinion. 


Here,  I  must  be  personal.  My  "mad"  translating  changed  me,  that  is,  my 
writing.  First,  I  wrote  poems  for  my  mother's  80th  birthday  I  could  not 
have  written  (see  page  251  of  the  Monster)  and  second,  I  found  myself 
writing  a  Benediction  for  the  book,  itself!  Or,  maybe  for  the  readers.  Who 
knows!  Have  you  ever  heard  of  such  a  thing?  Anyway,  here  it  is: 


BENEDICTION 

If  you  find  this  book,  so  full  of  naught,  of  service,  nonetheless, 
Rename  it  "The  Brain  of  Pooh"  and  you,  too,  will  be  blessed! 

u  %%  m  k  m    if  ^   ^  &  &  ^ 


The  Brain  of  Pooh.  In  case  you  forgot.  This  was  the  name  Christopher  Robin 
gave  to  the  empty  bottle  of  honey  upon  which  the  little  stuffed  bear  called  Winnie 
the  Pooh  floated  to  safety  in  the  big  flood.    S£  J£    M  <D  ~f—  £  h  &  ±^7^  & 

blessed  (#©*3a»tf T^^tlfc)   ^^^lif  rgg^j  K>Mft"Cfc50 


Mad  Poems  that  are  Really  Mad,  or  The  Poet 's  Revenge 

shomotsu  mo  nokorazu  bo  nifuru^sato  no  hito  no  shimijimi  nikuki  tsura  kana  issa 
print-matter  even  remain-not  pole-on-swing/hometown  folks'  keenly :paperfish  spiteful  faces! 

The  Poet  Betrayed 

Like  silverfish,  they  don 't  give  a  shit  for  written  stuff, 
My  countrymen,  my  ass!  They  live  to  eat  it  up! 

Written  shortly  after  haikai-master  Issa  (1763-1827)  finally  returned  to  his 
hometown  after  decades  in  the  big  city,  this  kyoka  fuses  bo-ni-furu  (an 
idiom  for  letting  go  to  waste  -  literally,  swing  as  or  on  a  pole)  to  furusato 
(home-town)  and  turns  "intensely"  {shimijimi)  into  "silverfish-zilverfish" 
by  repeating  the  bug's  Chinese  characters  Ift^+ditto.  The  philologist 
might  call  it  a  visual  Tom  Swifty  (But,  note:  kyoka  adverbial  puns  are  not 
limited  to  describing  quotations)!  Your  translator  first  imagined  Issa's 
manuscripts  were  used  to  heat  baths  or  wipe  arses,  as  the  greater  part  of  a 
carefully  collected  superb  collection  of  bawdy  English  ballads  once  was. 

Fuck  my  town  of  illiterate  assholes  w/  bad  behavior 
To  them,  a  book  means  but  one  thing:  toilet-paper! 

Eventually,  I  read  the  headnotes  (more  common  than  footnotes  in  vertical 
format  books)  to  the  effect  that  Issa  entrusted  something,  more  likely  to  be 
documents  concerning  his  father's  will  rather  than  what  I  imagined,  to 
someone  and  returned  to  find  them  damaged  and/or  missing  (If^). 

My  father 's  deeds  mean  squat  to  my  countrymen  -  in  anguish 
I  look  at  their  faces  and  all  I  see  are  silverfish! 

I  have  seen  this  vicious  mad  poem  in  Issa's  journal  (JC{b and 
nowhere  else.  He  kept  it  under  wraps,  not  copying  it  into  anything  he 
published.  This  is  understandable  as  it  puts  down  the  people  of  his 
hometown  and  he  still  wanted  to  live  there.  But  it  has  been  there  in  the 
reprint  now  for  decades,  yet  I  have  not  found  one  mention  of  it  anywhere. 
Even  one  of  Japan's  most  prolific  novelists,  Tanabe  Seiko,  despite  her 
obvious  attraction  for  Issa's  earthy  side,  failed  to  find  it  for  the  800-page 
"faction"  novel  Warped  Issa  (hinekureta  issa)  it  would  certainly  have 
graced.  As  a  kyoka,  it  was  not  in  any  selection  of  Issa's  collected  haiku 
that  a  busy  novelist  might  have  had  time  to  read.  It  caught  my  eye  before 
I  knew  anything  about  kyoka,  by  chance,  because  I  liked  Issa  enough  -  or 
valued  my  time  little  enough  -  to  read  his  journals  from  start  to  finish. 


Living  with  Silverfish! 


If  they  had  their  way,  all  books  would  wipe  asses  or  burn: 
The  spiteful  faces  in  my  hometown,  make  my  stomach  churn! 

Pardon  the  large  number  of  paraverses.  Your  translator  cannot  help  but 
identify  with  Issa  and  that  affects  his  reading.  Considered  one  of  the  top 
three  or  four  classic  haiku  poets  today,  in  his  time  Issa  was  but  one  of  a 
score  of  top  haikai  masters,  and  lacking  independent  wealth,  he  was  poor 
his  entire  life.  The  acerbic  wit  that  flows  from  a  deftly  welded  poison  pen, 
or  brush  in  the  Sinosphere,  is  cheap  medicine  for  the  soul  of  all  whose 
well-being  largely  depends  upon  the  consideration  of  those  who  enjoy  the 
security  we  are  denied.  And,  as  writers,  we  know  that,  in  the  long  run,  the 
fruit  of  our  resentment  may  entertain  and  bring  food  for  thought  to  others. 
I  had  hoped  the  headnote  would  be  wrong  and  we  were  talking  about 
poem  journals  and  books;  but  not  only  did  the  date  match  the  time  when 
Issa  was  fighting  what  we  might  call  illegal  disinheritance,  as  the  town 
including  the  relatively  well-off  man  who  was  entrusted  with  his  fathers 
will/s  and  whatnot,  favored  those  who  had  been  there  all  along  to  this  poet 
who  spent  all  of  his  adult  life  away,  but  a  variation  of  the  same  poem 
minus  the  saving  grace  of  the  silverfish  pun,  specified  the  shomotsu  or 
written  things  were  his  deceased  father's  (waga  mida  no).  Still,  the  fact  is 
that  by  making  those  shomotsu  "books,"  the  silverfish  come  to  life  and  the 
poem  gains  broader  currency  which  I  would  cash  in  translation. 

What  Spiteful  Faces! 

All  books  must  go:  that  is  their  wish  - 
In  my  hometown,  capital  to  silverfish! 

The  way  Issa  rewrote  and  changed  his  haiku  over  the  decades  suggests  he 
would  have  been  delighted  with  this,  but  if  any  reader  is  not,  I  have  a 
compromise  to  suggest.  Try  a  paraverse  yourself  using  "papers"  for 
shomotsu.  If  you  come  up  with  something  good,  please  let  me  know! 

Papa 's  papers,  saved  for  me,  the  fruit  of  his  hard  labor  - 
Gone!  My  hometown 's  motto?  "Silverfish  thy  neighbor!" 

Sorry!  As  I  wrote  the  final  words  on  the  last  page,  not  intending  to  do 
another  paraverse  as  the  first  rhyme  popping  into  my  head  for  paper  was 
"rape  her"  (the  goddess  of  paper),  which  had  me  thinking  papel,  as 
Spanish  is  my  second  language,  that  in  turn  sent  me  to  the  French  word  for 
that  insect  with  paper-like  wings,  the  papillion,  and  thinking  /  had  better 
just  stop  right  now  or  this  book  will  never  get  done  I  took  my  break  to  go 


139 


out  to  feed  the  cat  and  cows  (my  favorite  chores),  and  as  I  was  tugging  off 
hay  near  the  core  of  the  ball  -  the  only  time  when  it  is  tough-going  -  a 
loose  rhyme  for  paper  came  to  me,  labor,  followed  almost  immediately  by 
neighbor  and  shortly  -  within  minutes  -  after  that,  the  verbing  of  the 
silverfish,  which  brings  them  rhetorically  closer  to  Issa's  original  where 
they  are  adverbed.  Though  details  of  the  original  content,  such  as 
"spiteful  faces,"  are  not  even  hinted  at,  the  quality  of  the  wit  has  finally 
been  matched  and  I  can  rest  happy,  knowing  it  unlikely  anyone  will  come 
up  with  anything  better,  unless  it  be  a  fine-tuned  version  of  mine,  which 
would  be  obvious  to  anyone  who  read  both. 


nydin  no  gozen  no  hiroku  naru  koto  wa  kyogetsu-bo  ga  shiji  no  iruyue  kyogetsu-bo  d.1328 
Empress's  hon.+front's  wide  become  thing-as-for  A. -monk's  private-land's  enter/acquire  because 


The  Empress 's  Garden  The  Empress 's  Vagina 

is  wider  by  the  acquisition  is  wider  by  Monk  K 's  privates 

of  Monk  K  's  private  grounds.  having  entered  It. 

Unlike  Issa's  totally  ignored  poem,  this  one  by  a  monk  of  Imperial  birth 
sometimes  considered  to  be  the  first  kyoka  master,  is  found  in  many  old 
anthologies  and  not  a  few  websites.  For  a  kyoka,  it  is  famous  and  more 
often  than  not  is  accompanied  by  an  explanation  to  the  effect  that  Empress 
so  and  so  requisitioned  part  of  his  property  to  expand  her  front  garden. 
And  additional  notes  for  modern  readers  always  explain  that  "private- 
ground"  (shiji)  puns  what  was  slang  for  a  man's  privates  and  that  the  term 
gozen  -  literally  "honorable  front"  not  only  refers  to  the  Empress  and  her 
garden  but  her  privates  that  his  might  enlarge.  In  other  words,  this  is  a  case 
of  metaphysical  come-uppance.  There  are  more  outrageous  kyoka,  but  this 
is  the  only  famous  one.  And,  I  believe  it  to  be  the  only  one  betraying 
resentment  as  powerful  as  that  of  Issa's,  though,  as  we  have  seen,  a  few 
kyoka  squibs  attacking  rulers  or  classes  of  people  betray  the  anger  of  their 
anonymous  authors.  The  original  combines  both  of  the  above  in  one  pun- 
enabled  poem.  Alas,  your  translator  failed  to  find  a  way  to  integrate  the 
two  in  time  for  the  reading-copy  edition  of  the  740-page  Monster!  But 
after  coming  up  with  the  Silverfish  solution,  he  decided  it  might  be  a  good 
day  to  see  if  he  could  do  it.  And,  in  a  matter  of  minutes,  he  ...  I  did! 

The  next  monk  she  fucks  with  will  slip  right  out  and  beg  her  pardon: 
How  wide  it  is  after  taking  in  mine  -  Damn,  the  Empress 's  garden! 

There  are  two  things  wrong  here.  It  is  too  obscene  -  not  because  I  wanted 


140 


to  be  dirty,  mind  you,  but  because  the  rhyme  "pardon"  had  to  justify  itself 
and  that  is  how  it  did  it.  Rhyme  is  now,  as  ever,  a  dangerous  thing  (Look 
what  rod  did  to  the  poor  poet-editor  in  Orwell's  1984  who  could  not  help 
leaving  in  Kipling's  God!).  In  a  few  minutes,  the  clincher  - 

The  Queen  whose  front  garden  ate  his  messed  with  the  wrong  monk-bard: 
Kyogetsu  left  hers  so  damn  wide  she  '11  never  take  another  yard! 

This  is  like  the  original  in  that  the  poet  refers  to  himself  in  the  third-person 
and  the  word  referring  to  the  male  member,  yard,  is  now  obsolete.  Cotton 
Mathers,  an  admirable  preacher  and  physician  who  worked  harder  than 
anyone  else  to  stop  the  executions  of  so-called  witches  in  Salem  treated  an 
unfortunate  man  with  a  hole  in  his  (besides  the  normal  one  in  the  glans). 
No,  I  do  not  go  looking  for  these  things:  I  corrected  the  translation  of 
Chadwick  Hansen's  touching  book  {Witchcraft  in  Salem)  -  because  I 
scouted  and  recommended  it  to  my  employer,  a  Japanese  publisher  - 
which  had  that  hole  just  outside  his  house,  in  the  garden.  Mistranslations 
as  funny  as  this  stick  in  the  mind;  and,  speaking  of  yards  recalls  a  barn- 
door, not  open,  but  with  a  kite  nailed  to  it  in  an  800-page  biography  of 
Darwin  I  corrected.  The  idea  of  displaying  a  criminal  bird  to  scare  off 
others  did  not  occur  to  the  translator,  a  biologist  and  not  a  farmer.  When  I 
found  it,  the  kite  had  Japanesed  into  the  featherless  paper  variety! 


mono  iwanu  osana-kuchi  o  akashibu  no  mizu-zeme  to  wa  oni  mo  shiraji  na  issa 
thing  sayng-not  infantile  mouth+acc  akashibu's  water-pressing-as4  demons-evn  know-not  1823 

Water  torture  applied  to  wordless  babes?  Why,  even  in  Hell, 
No  demon  would  think  to  do  what  Akashibu  does  so  well! 


Forcing  water  down  the  throat  of  a  baby  - 1  was  a  sucker, 
for  not  even  a  devil  could  behave  like  that  Red-pucker! 

Issa,  again.  Sorry  for  the  bias  in  my  sampling,  but  kyoka  in  kyoka 
collections  are  seldom  personal  and  those  that  are  tend  to  be  written  in  the 
course  of  gift-exchange,  celebrations  and  other  social  pleasantries.  It  just 
so  happens  that  Issa  is  the  only  poet  whose  work  -  including  all  of  what 
might  be  called  his  private  poems  -  I  am  well-stocked  in.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
unlike  Shokusanjin,  who  may  have  been  a  samurai  but  was  still  young  and 
poor,  and  as  we  saw  (pg.31)  lost  a  baby  because  his  wife  could  not  make 
much  milk  and  he  could  not  afford  to  hire  a  nurse,  Issa  was  an  old  man 
and  finally  had  enough  -  barely  enough  -  income  from  his  contest- 


141 


judging  and  disciples  to  afford  a  bargain-rate  wet-nurse.  He  writes  that  the 
father  of  this  dry  wet-nurse  whose  name  translates  as  "red-astringent" 
(Akashibu)  -  today,  the  name  of  a  disease  afflicting  mulberry  leaves  - 
claimed  she  was  plump,  fed  on  rice  cake  (a  symbol  of  luxury)  and  whiter 
than  snow  (as  opposed  to  skinny  and  dark,  like  poor  people),  boasting  milk 
that  gushed  out  "like  sake  from  a  just  unstopped  keg,  "  but,  when  he  met 
his  hitherto  healthy  son  at  his  wife's  funeral,  he  was  a  bag  of  bones.  It 
turned  out  Akashibu 's  breasts  were  flat  as  a  man's.  She  faked  milking 
babies  while  slipping  them  water.  I  added  "I  was  a  sucker"  in  the  second 
reading  because  Issa  was  taken  in  by  a  family  of  hucksters.  The  first 
version  of  the  poem  had  the  plain  "forcing  water"  (mizu  o  hameru),  but 
there  is  no  wit  in  that  so  I  give  you  the  revised  version,  as  the  technical 
term  for  a  punishment  "water  torture,"  one  of  many  once  used  to  make 
Christians  recant!  -  is  what  makes  this  poem  not  only  a  complaint  but  a 
kyoka. 

Unlike  the  silverfish  poem,  however,  the  personal  name  and  ambiguity  of 
the  charge  of  water-torture  makes  a  preface  necessary  even  for  Japanese 
readers.  Whether  or  not  such  a  poem  belongs  in  anthologies  is  hard  to  say. 
Some  old  kyoka  anthologies  have  prefaces  for  most  poems  and  some  have 
none.  Both  sorts  of  presentations  have  their  charm;  a  well-crafted  preface 
can  make  the  entire  poem  seem  a  delightful  punch-line  rather  than  a 
boring  summation  for  what  has  already  been  explained. 

Believe  it  or  not,  over  700  years  before  Issa  had  a  bad  wet-nurse,  we 
already  find  a  mad  poem  about  the  same  problem: 

hakanaku  mo  omoikeru  kana  chi  mo  nakute  hakase  no  ie  no  menoto  sen  to  wa 
senselessly+emph.  to  think!  milk=knowledge  even  without,  professors'  nanny  be-would! 

A  wet-nurse,  with  no  more  brains  or  milk  than  a  tit-mouse? 
How  unwise  for  wizened  dugs  to  shame  a  scholars '  house! 

Published  in  1086  in  the  Goshuishu  (gsis  #1217),  this  is  the  first  of  a  two- 
poem  exchange  between  well-known  scholar  spouses  Oe  no  Masahira  no 
Ason  and  Akazome  Emon.  When  a  woman  who  came  to  serve  as  a  wet 
nurse  produced  only  a  thin  stream  of  milk,  the  husband,  Ason  raged.  In 
Cranston's  translation,  which  does  not,  like  mine,  rely  upon  a  bird 
Japanese  know  nothing  about  that  happens  to  be  the  most  frequent  visitor 
to  the  feeder  only  two  feet  from  my  monitor:  "  What  a  scatterbrain  -  /  To 
think  she  could  squeeze  by  /  As  a  wetnurse  here  /  In  a  learned  doctor's 
house:  /  Little  learning  and  less  milk!"  {Waka  vol.  2A  pg  552).  The  original 
plays  on  a  pair  of  puns:  frivolously=hakanaku=lacking  and  milk=chi= 
knowledge  to  berate  the  nanny.  The  good-tempered  reply  by  his  wife,  who 


was  the  better-known  poet  (one  of  her  poems  would  become  immortalized 
in  the  Hundred  Poets  One  Poem  anthology),  is  far  from  mad.  This  time, 
starting  with  Cranston's  translation,  "Let's  be  satisfied  /  If  at  least  her 
native  wit  /  Deserves  respect  —  /  Scant  schooling  and  thin  milk,  no  doubt,  / 
But  enough  to  squeeze  her  in.  "  Here  (gsis#1218  ditto),  the  good  professor 
in  whose  book  I  found  the  poem  had  to  split  and  thus  lose,  the  main  pun 
scant-learning  =  hosoji  =  thin-milk  but  uses  squeeze  in  both  poems  to 
maintain  the  flow  of  thought.  My  reading  of  the  original  is  more  like  this: 

sa  mo  araba  are  yamatogokoro  shi  kashikoku  wa  hosoji  ni  tsukete  arasu  bakari  zo 
well  even  is  if  be!  big-peace(japanese)-heart/mind+ernph.polite/smart-as-for, 
thin-knowledge=scant-milk-with  respect-to  be-let  (arazu=is  not?)+emph! 

(a  bit  dry,  perhaps,  but  let's  keep  this  wet-nurse) 

What  she  is  she  is  -  does  not  our  native  wit  set  us  free 
Not  to  nit-pick  like  Chinese,  but  let  the  little  things  be? 

You  might  note  that  I  could  not  squeeze  in  the  milk.  But,  put  right  after  her 
husband's  poem,  I  think  the  context  would  carry  it  even  without  the  added 
title.  This  might  be  a  good  time  to  point  out  to  mention  that  I  wrote 
Professor  Cranston  to  express  my  enthusiasm  for  his  book  and,  as  is  my 
wont,  question  him  where  I  entertained  doubt,  to  wit:  "I  suspect  the 
yamatogokoro  is  used  as  rhetoric  for  the  attitude  her  hubbie  should  take 
and  may  not,  as  you  write,  be  defending  the  wetnurse  for  having  native 
wit/japanese  spirit."  In  other  words,  I  felt  she  was  saying  that  he  ought  to 
be  more  "big-peace"  (if  I  may  English  the  Chinese  characters  usually  used 
for  Yamato)  in  spirit,  even  if  that  meant  reading  arasu  as  arazu.  Cranston 
generously  thanked  me  for  the  additional  reading  (the  general  idea,  I  had 
not  yet  cooked  up  the  above  translation,  about  as  loose  as  they  come)  but 
stuck  to  his  grammar  and  his  guns:  "I  still  think  yamatogokoro  applies  to 
the  nurse."  Things  are  more  complex  and  there  is  an  in-between  reading  - 

She  is  what  she  is  and  wisdom  born  of  our  Big  Peace  Way 
Would  not  make  an  issue  of  two-bit  tits:  let  her  stay! 

Here  reading  of  "arasu"  remains  positive  as  Cranston  reads  it,  but  my 
interpretation  of  the  Yamato  rhetoric  remains  unchanged.  I  realize  I  am 
guessing.  The  professor  has  read  and  translated  far  more  old  waka  than  I 
have.  Chances  are  I  am  dead  wrong.  Still,  I  feel  my  interpretation  makes 
the  exchange  wittier  and  I  never  mind  taking  a  chance  on  improving  the 
reputation  of  poet-as-wit;  and,  in  the  case  of  this  poem,  I  feel  it  possible  I 
can  stir  up  something  rare  and  interesting  when  it  comes  to  old  poems,  a 
debate.  That  is  because  the  use  of  yamatogokoro  as  rhetoric  holds  more 


143 


psycho-history  or  even  political  significance  than  most  phrases.  I  would 
expect  that  some  of  our  more  opinionated  scholars  may  want  to  add  their 
two-bits.  Or,  so  I  hope.  I  await  their  readings,  my  proverbial  hat  out  for 
what  I  hope  will  be  enlightening  food  for  thought  which  may  be  added  to 
this  book  as  a  gloss,  or  marginalia. 


ishinago  no  ochikuru  tama  no  hi  fit  miyo  itsutsu  mutsu  nanatsu  yakamashi  noyoya 
pebble-game  falling  stones/jacks'  one,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven,  eight=noisy  world! 

In  the  time  a  jackstone  takes  to  fall .  .  ? 
"One!"  "Two!"  "Three! "  I  hear  them  bawl 
"Four!"  "Five!"  "Six!"  Why  must  they  yell? 
"Seven!"  rhymes  heaven  but  noise  is  hell! 

There  are  degrees  of  anger.  The  ancient  scholar  was  irked  by  the  gall  of  a 
wet-nurse  coming  to  work  with  a  paltry  supply  of  her  goods  while  Issa 
was  furious  about  what  happened  to  his  documents.  The  above  is  an 
example  of  Issa  mildly  angry.  It  is  more  a  complaint  than  a  maledicta.  Issa 
also  had  complaints  about  certain  repetitive  bird  calls  getting  on  his  nerves, 
or  geese  gaggling  when  a  stroke  took  away  his  voice,  etc.  But  all  are  haiku. 
This  is  a  kyoka.  Like  his  silverfish,  a  single  line,  as  there  is  no  real  break 
in  the  flow  of  the  original,  the  pun  is  not  explanatory  like  mine  but  natural, 
turning  the  eight,  yatsu  into  yakamashi,  or  "noisy"  half-way  through  the 
word.  English  would  need  a  different  content,  say,  counting  farts  up  to 
something  one  eight/ate  to  match  it.  But,  there  is  more  than  a  pun  in  the 
poem.  I  feel  Issa  may  have  been  playing  upon  Saigyo's  hyperbolic 
metaphor  of  the  transience  of  life: 

^t^^(Dtc^(Dm^<  sisjffc&fcMcs^  Pte^te^te-rs  mn 

ishinago  no  tama  no  ochikuru  hodonasa  ni  suguru  tsnkibi  wa  kawari  ya  wa  sunt 
jackstones'  falling-come  amount-short-in  pass  months-days-as-for  exchange  do 

Quick  as  stones  tossed  by  children  in  play  drop  to  the  ground, 
Old  Months  and  Days  leave  us  when  new  ones  come  around! 

As  these  stones  actually  drop  into  holes  which  allude  to  what  we  end  up 
in.  As  quick  as  stones  tossed  by  children  drop  into  holes  /  The  months  and 
days,  passing,  change  and  on  time  rolls.  But,  to  get  back  to  Issa,  he 
famously  loved  children.  He  was  not  so  hurting  from  the  deaths  of  his 
own  children  that  he  hated  to  hear  others  because  he  had  not  yet  had  them, 
he  was  newly  married  (for  the  first  time)  at  50  or  so  and  might  have 
wanted  to  sleep  in.  Or  he  was  under  the  weather,  feeling  his  age  and  on 


edge.  Or,  the  entire  poem  might  also  be  meant  as  a  complaint  about  the 
meaningless  clamor  of  so-called  "news"  telling  us  nothing  of  worth. 
Riffing  off  of  Saigyo,  his  poem  may  be  meant  to  lament  that  not  only  was 
life  all  too  quick,  but  all  too  noisy. 


shakkin  no  fuchi  ni  onore  to  shizumitsutsu  ukiyo  o  uramu  toshinokure  kana  issa  d.1827 
debt's  depths-in  self-from  sinking-while  floating/woeful-world+acc  begrudge  year-end! 


I  added  "creditors  won't  wait"  in  lieu  of  explaining  in  prose  the 
significance  of  the  end  of  the  year.  Debt's  fuchi,  that  deep  spot,  or  pool,  in 
a  river  usually  near  a  bend  that  English  oddly  has  no  word  for,  was  a 
typical  location  for  drowning  and  suicide,  at  least  in  poetry.  The  uki  world 
is  both  that  of  woe  and  entertainer s/ment  of  the  flesh,  the  former  usually 
written  with  the  Chinese  character  for  depressing,  the  latter,  also  called 
"the  water  trade"  by  that  for  "floating."  Issa's  literal  take  on  the  "floating" 
is  old  hat  but  the  way  the  elements  are  paradoxically  combined  with  the 
bald  statement  of  "hate"  results  in  an  extraordinarily  powerful  kyoka.  Yes, 
the  expressions  are  corny;  but,  if  it  is  doggerel,  it  is  doggerel  with  a  real 
bite.  The  original  is  a  finely  crafted  idiomatic  paradox,  but  we  may  also 
imagine  how  a  poor  man  suffers  knowing  all  that  unaffordable 
entertainment  is  out  there. 


yo  ni  sumaba  te  o  suri  ashi  o  suri-kogi  ni  shite  kakemawaru  toshinokure  kana  issa 
world-in  live-if  hands+acc  rub/pray  legs  rub/pray=pestle-into  making  go  round  year-end! 

To  live  in  the  world  of  men,  our  hands  rub  together,  that  is  we  beg, 
While  worn  down  to  pestles  by  year's  end,  around  go  our  legs! 

This  hand  and  leg/foot  rubbing=s«r/  with  the  significance  of  supplicating 
for  mercy  -  debts  to  ber  paid  at  the  end  of  the  year,  here  -  is  the  same 
found  in  Issa's  famous  fly-ku,  but  with  the  surprising  addition  of  -kogi, 
that  verb  becomes  a  pestle=5wr/'A:og/  and  another  connotation  of 
swr/=rubbing,  namely,  wearing  down  and,  if  I  am  not  mistaken, 
toshinokure  is  used  rather  than  the  human-activity  stressing  shiwasu  to 
signify  the  end  of  the  year  so  kure  may  pun  on  the  begging  of  an  old  man. 

There  are  other  personal  poems  as  literally  mad  as  Issa's,  but  they  are  not 
necessarily  kyoka.  A  betrayed  lover  in  a  furious  waka  in  the  8c  Manyo- 
shu  describes  the  place  where  his  sweetheart  or  wife  -  such  details  matter 


Knowing  I  myself  dove  into  debt,  as  I  sink  I  still  hate 
The  floating  world  at  year 's  end:  creditors  won 't  wait. 


not  a  whit  for  the  point  I  am  slowly  getting  to  -  cheated  using  a  word  close 
to  the  English  damn,  namely  shiko,  or  "piss,"  three  times,  or  maybe  four! 
If  you  care  to  search  for  and  find  it,  you  can  count.  I  recall  one  shiko  was 
used  to  modify  the  bedding.  The  point  is  this:  the  poem  was  not  the  least 
bit  funny  unless  you  find  someone  so  furious  as  to  spew  out  "pissing"  over 
and  over  again  amusing.  I  suppose  the  editor  of  the  Manyoshu  thought  it 
was  interesting  as  such,  as  an  illustration  of  what  sort  of  poetry  (?)  can 
spring  from  a  deranged  mind.  At  any  rate,  it  is  not  a  mad  poem  in  the 
kyoka  sense,  because  a  kyoka,  like  good  blues  or  country  music  lyrics, 
must  be  written  by  someone  who,  "pissed-off '  though  he  or  she  may  be, 
has  the  presence  of  mind  to  find  something  that  is,  if  not  funny,  at  least 
clever  enough  to  bring  a  slight  grin  if  not  a  repressed  chuckle  to  the  reader 
and,  one  would  hope,  in  time,  to  the  poet.  I  doubt  the  "pissing"  will  ever 
do  that. 


P  Silverfish  Book.  A  file  full  of  silverfish  slowly  grows  in  my  computer  and  will 
eventually  become  a  book.  They  are  an  ideal  subject  for  poetry,  as  most  who  write 
have  strong  feelings  about  silverfish.  The  book  is  one  I  would  co-author. 

Issa  &  me.  Why  so  much  Issa?  Because  I  own  a  set  of  all  his  journals  and 
additional  books  (an  encyclopedia  of  his  life,  novel  and  literary  criticism).  Had 
another  gentleman  (David  Lanoue)  not  dedicated  his  life  to  Issa,  my  first  books  in 
English  would  have  been  all  Issa,  for  when  I  left  Japan  such  was  my  intention,  and 
the  chain  of  events  that  led  to  this  book  might  not  have  been  forged.  Such  is  life,  you 
run  into  surprises  and  try  to  make  them  rhyme. 

P  To  Scholars.  If  you  have  all  the  poems  of  any  Japanese  poet  and  happen  to  find 
an  odd  kyoka  please  send  it  to  me,  especially  if  it  is  one  of  those  rare,  truly  mad  ones 
like  Issa's  silverfish  and  Yuchoro's  yard-stealing  Empress,  in  which  case  it  may  be 
added  to  this  chapter. 

P  Furusato  puns.  Waka  punning  on  the  furu  in  furusato  (hometown)  as  falling  rain, 
snow  and  flowers,  passing  years  or  aging  were  common,  but  Issa's  may  be  the  only 
insulting  usage. 


146 


Mad  Seasons:  The  New  Year  (once  a  whole  season) 


toshi  no  uchi  ni  haru  wa  kinikeri  hitotose  o  kozo  to  ya  iwamu  kotoshi  to  ya  iwamu 
year-within-in  spring-as-for  came:  one-year+acc  lastyear-as  say-not,  thisyear-as  say-not 


The  original  is  neither  the  oldest  kyoka  nor,  for  that  matter,  ever  called  a 
kyoka.  Nor  was  it  rhymed;  but  this  reading  of  Ariwara  no  Motokata's 
waka,  the  lead-off  poem  in  the  second  of  the  three  best-known  classic 
waka  anthologies,  is,  nonetheless,  closer  to  the  spirit  of  the  original  than 
the  usual  boring  translation,  such  as  that  within  Shiki  on  said  waka: 

Tsuruyuki  is  a  bad  poet,  and  the  Kokinshu  a  worthless  collection  .... 
Take  down  the  Kokinshu  and  open  it  to  the  first  page.  The  first  thing  you 
will  come  across  is  this  really  disgustingly  insipid  poem: 

Toshi  no  uchi  ni  /  Haru  wa  kinikeri  /  Hitotose  o  /  Kozo  to  ya  iwamu  / 
Kotoshi  to  ya  iwamu  (Spring  has  come  within  the  old  year:  shall  we  call 
the  year  "this  year,"  or  shall  we  call  it  "last  year"?) 

The  poem  is  so  silly  that  it  fails  to  rise  even  to  the  level  of  vulgar  wit,  as 
if  one  were  to  say,  "This  child  of  mixed  blood,  born  between  a  Japanese 
and  a  foreigner  -  are  we  to  call  it  'Japanese,'  or  should  we  call  it  a 
'foreigner'?"  .  .  .  (Brower  trans.,  cited  by  McCullough,  my  abbrev..) 

Shiki,  with  Kyoshi,  co-father  of  modern  haiku,  could  not  have  been  harder 
on  the  poem  and  Kokinshu  (905)  editor,  Ki  no  Tsurayuki  for  featuring  it. 
While  refreshing  to  hear  someone  attack  a  man  and  a  book  revered  for  a 
thousand  years,  "silly"  or  not,  Ariwara  no  Motokata's  poem  embodies  one 
of  the  best  traditions  of  Japanese  poetry:  it  plays  with  cultural  constructs. 
Tsurayuki  placed  the  poem  first  because  it  reminds  us  that  calendars  and 
editing  have  no  pat  solution.  And,  do  not  contradictions  between  lunar, 
solar  and  local  (or  climatic)  years  make  life  more  interesting?  The  snap  in 
the  original  is  lost  by  English's  boringly  descriptive  terms  "last  year," 
"this  year"  and  "New  Year's  Day,"  where  the  Japanese  has  the  pleasant 
ring  of  real  names.  Shiki,  of  course,  read  it  in  Japanese  and  still  was  not 
impressed.  Having  grown  up  with  the  Gregorian  calendar,  did  he,  perhaps, 
lack  sufficient  feeling  for  the  pleasure  people  once  derived  from  juggling 
around  the  polychronic  ancient  system?  Here  is  another  reading: 


Spring  they  say  has  come  today,  so  tell  me  if  we  may, 
call  this  year  last  year  before  New  Year 's  day! 


P  Do  we  honor  the  Sun,  or  honor  the  Moon?  P 


With  Spring  so  soon,  what  about  the  Year  we're  in,  if  Truth  be  told 
before  the  Moon,  I  cannot  tell  if  we  should  we  call  it  New  or  Old! 


Japanese  poets  were  inspired  to  do  countless  take-offs  on  Ariwara  no 
Motokata's  poem.  Here  is  one  by  Monk  Jien. 


%(D  9  hfc^Z^Ctf  19  i  L<DlhMt  ^fitrRfc^tttf  jiend.1225 


yuki  no  nchi  ni  haru  wa  kinikeri  yoshino  yama  kumo  to  ya  iwamu  kasumi  to  ya  iwamu 
snow-within-in  spring-as-for  came:  yoshino  mountain  clouds-as  say-not,  mist/haze-as  say-not 


Here,  the  nominal  difference  may  underlie  the  composition,  but  the 
explicitly  stated  one  is,  rather,  meteorological.  Banners  is  mine.  Only  the 
underlined  words  (snow,  yoshino,  mountain  cloud,  haze/mist)  differ  from 
the  original.  Here  is  one  from  a  huge  early- 14c.  waka  anthology. 


kurehatenu  toshi  no  owari  ni  haru  tachite  sadamekanetaru  waga  yowai  kana  mitsutoshi 
setting/ending-exhausting-not-y ear-end-on  spring  arriving  settle-cannot  my  age  'tis! 


Spring  is  here  before  the  end  of  the  year  -  I,  no  sage, 
confess  that  now  I  cannot  figure  out .  .  .  my  own  age! 

Before  the  year  has  rightly  ended  I  am  struck  dumb 
How  can  I  tell  my  age,  now  that  spring  has  come? 

That  spring  came  before  year 's  end  is  no  secret; 
but  now  I  really  can  no  longer  tell  my  own  age! 


The  common  denominator  of  the  three  readings  of  Mitsutoshi 's  poem  is 
the  original,  conceptually  speaking  wacky  enough  to  be  a  kyoka,  yet 
stylistically  so  plain  the  gains  in  translation  are  excessive.  What  makes 
the  original  interesting  is  that  crude  or  not,  it  studiously  differs  from 
Motokata's  waka.  For  contrast,  here  is  a  kyoka  for  someone  whose  child 
was  born  when  the  solar  Spring  fell  within  the  old  year  by  Mitoku 
the  haikai+kyoka  master  who  published  the  first  large  personal  collection 
of  kyoka  in  1649,  that  is  similar  in  concept  but  follows  the  original  very 
closely  (note:  children  were  born  a  year-old  in  the  Sinosphere): 

toshinouchi  no  haru  ni  mumaruru  midoriko  o  hitotsu  to  ya  iwan  futatsu  to  ya  iwan  mitoku 
year-within's  spring-in  born  infant+acc  one+emph  say=celebrate-should,  two+emph  say=celeb. 


A  child  born  in  the  spring  within  the  year  -  what  can  we  do? 

We  want  to  call  him  "one"  and  we  want  to  call  him  "two!" 
 or  

We  cannot  call  her  "one"  and  we  cannot  call  her  "two!" 


Spring  has  come  to  Mt.  Yoshino  covered  with  snow 
So,  are  those  banners  mist,  or  clouds?  Who  knows! 


149 


My  favorite  pre-Edo  take-off  of  Motokata's  waka  is  the  very  first  poem  of 
a  14c  work  called  Cake  vs.  Wine  Poem  Match  (Mochi-Sake  Uta-awase) 
found  in  Broadview.  There  are  only  ten  pairs  of  poems  and  they  are  not 
called  kyoka,  but  they  exemplify  the  best  spirit  of  light  verse  and  the 
judgment/commentary  by  p.m.  Nijo  Nyobo  (^^^cM,  or  ~  Yoshimoto 
1320-88),  who  may  have  written  them,  too,  is  delightful  and  so  gentle  that 
even  with  occasional  wild  flourishes  (eg.  ~  &  h  <fe>  K  ^ o  #  f#  2t> )  I, 
unfamiliar  with  the  use  of  nyobo  as  an  appellation  for  one  serving  in  high 
office  (he  was  the  p.m.),  thought  he  was  a  woman,  the  wife  of  (Emperor) 
Nijo.  This  poem  match  tells  us  the  seed  for  the  wildly  imaginative  17c 
kyoka  and  the  highly  sophisticated  late- 18c  (Tenmei)  kyoka  was  already 
sown  and  only  needed  precipitation  to  sprout.  If  just  two  translations  from 
it  are  in  The  740-page  Monster,  it  is  only  because  most  are  too  fine  to  re- 
create. This  poem  was  not  among  those  translated  (though  I  may  add  it): 

toshi  no  uchi  ni  mochi  wa  tsukikeri  hitotose  o  koz/so  to  ya  kuwan  kotoshi  to  ya  kitwan 
year-within-in  mochi  (sweet-rice)-as-for  beat+emph.  one/whole-year+acc 
lastyear-as/with  roast=>eat-would  this-year  as/with  roast=>eat-would 

Rice  cake  pounded  within  the  old  year  -  What,  then,  is  true: 
Would  we  roast  the  last  year  now  or  should  we  toast  the  new? 

When  we  beat  this  sweet-rice  into  cake  the  year  was  old  - 
I  say,  eat  it  last  year,  by  the  new  one  it  will  mold! 

Beside  the  take-off's  echoing  the  original  there  are  puns  such  as  yaku,  the 
usual  verb  for  toasting  mochi,  concealed  in  an  emphatic  ya  and  intent  to 
eat  kuwan.  Your  translator  is  not  sure  he  gets  it,  anyway,  so  rather  than 
boring  the  reader,  he  added  a  celebratory  element  to  the  first  reading, 
which  only  implies  eating  but  is  nonetheless  close  to  the  original,  and 
"mold"  which  is  pure  invention.  But,  it  can  happen: 

toshi  koete  hana  no  kagami  to  nam  mochi  wa  kabi  kakaru  o  ya  kumoru  to  iu  ran  hoyu  1666 
year  passing  blossoms'  mirror  becoming  sweetrice-cake-as-for  molds  hey!  clouds-as  say 

The  mirror  mochi  we  made  last  year  blooms  in  the  new: 
Mold  has  formed,  or,  should  we  say  aloud,  "It  clouds?  " 

This  wit  alludes  to  both  the  practice  of  taboo  language  over  the  New  Year 
season  (lucky  words  replaced  many  ordinary  ones)  and  the  conceit  of 
blossoms  as  clouds  and  vice-versa.  This  echoes  Jien's  poem  with  clouds 
vs  mist  but  having  started  the  New  Year  and  Spring,  the  haze,  a  given,  is 
dropped  for  cloudiness  versus  blossoms.    Still,  the  way  the  question  is 


posed  alludes  to  Motokata's  waka,  which  started  the  "Is  it  this,  or  is  it 
that?"  approach  to  year-change  ambiguities  and  contradictions.  But  to 
return  to  the  chronology,  not  long  after  the  Cake  vs  Wine  Song  Match,  we 
find  the  liveliest  -  or  sassiest?  -  of  all  the  take-offs.  It  is  link- verse  master 
Socho's  first  Journal  entry  in  1524.  His  kyoka  (ff^(7){io  h  t  T>%  19  — 
t^tK  Z^:  t-^^^ltAy/btp^t-^^^HAy  aratama  no  hatsumotoi  kiri 
hitotose  ni  kozo  to  ya  iwan  koshami  to  ya  iwan)  borrows  Motokata's 
language  to  haze  someone  begging  admission  to  the  temple!  The  last  two 
lines  are,  in  H.  Mack  Horton's  fine  translation,  "should  we  call  him  last 
year's  scamp,  /  or  should  we  call  him  this  year's  novice?  "(The  Journal  of 
Socho).  In  the  original,  the  last  year  and  the  scamp  are  punderfully  one, 
while  the  new  year  and  novice  are  punfully  close.  And,  now  we  are  ready 
for  what  must  be  the  best  of  all  the  take-offs.  It  comes  not  from  a  stand- 
alone poem  but  an  anthology  of  stories,  Anraku  Sakuden's  Laughs  to 
Banish  Sleep  (1623).  It  is  #202  of  360  kyoka,  or  near-kydka  in  the  1623 
Seisuisho  selected  for  the  reference  volume  of  Broadview  attributed  to  "S" 
3t*T)  A,  an  old  person  of  long  ago.  Lacking  a  copy  of  the  book,  your 
translator  wrote  H.  Mack  Horton,  who  translated  twenty-eight  of  the  1000- 
odd  stories  in  11®^:  Seisuisho  as  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep,  for  the  framing, 
which  he  was  kind  enough  to  provide: 

...  the  poem  appears  in  an  anecdote  under  jogo,  "heavy  drinker."  It's  framed 
in  a  story  about  how  when  the  solar  New  Year  falls  during  the  lunar  old  year 
it's  celebratory,  so  the  domestics  are  given  a  treat.  Each  person  gets  one  rice 
bowl  filled  with  sake,  but  an  old  man  takes  two.  He  is  challenged  to  defend 
his  effrontery,  and  he  answers  with  the  KKS  poem  that  in  this  year  the  new 
year  has  come  before  the  old  one  is  out  -  so  are  we  to  call  it  "this  year"  or 
"last  year?"  It  happens  that  iiwan  "rice  bowl"  is  a  near-homophone  of  iwan, 
"call."  So  set  up,  the  original  might  be  heard  to  mean  something  like  "This 
may  be  one  year,  but  the  old  one  calls  for  a  bowl  and  the  new  one  calls  for  a 
bowl  [so  I  was  just  being  cautious]!"  Everybody  laughed,  (personal  corre- 
spondence, with  some  changes  and  an  overly  bold  bracketed  addition.) 

Bowls  were  commonly  filled  and  quaffed  after  meals  by  the  well-off  at  the 
time  Laughs  was  written.  Half  a  century  earlier,  Luis  Frois  and  other 
Occidental  visitors  were  disgusted  by  the  practice  (see  items  #6-32,  -36  in 
Topsy-turvy  1585).  If  you  try  it  you  may  find  that  sake  tastes  better  sipped 
from  the  shell  of  a  just-eaten  crab  than  red  wine  or  beer  does.  Who  knows 
why  that  should  be,  but  that  is  the  way  it  is.  But,  let  me  note  one  technical 
thing  about  the  pun  in  the  original  (which  Broadview  gives  as  ^-<D  5  %K 
mn^^tfV-b^&^^F-t^i^foAjZt  Li^l^t>;bAy).  The 
Kokinshu  original  is  iwamu  not  iwan.  The  twice-repeated  iwan=>  iiwan 
pun,  which  is  the  only  thing  in  the  kyoka  that  phonetically  differentiates  it 
from  Motokata's  poem,  had  to  await  the  shift  in  writing  (and,  possibly, 
pronunciation)  of  the  conjugation.  Iwamu  could  not  have  been  punned  into 


151 


iiwan  a  rice-bowl  (for  whatever  reason,  nouns  ending  in  "n"  changed  from  "mu" 
in  writing  before  the  verbs  did,  so  iwamu  vs.  iiwamu  would  have  been  unlikely) 
The  pun,  in  retrospect  seems  a  natural,  but  despite  the  apparent  usage  of 
modern  spelling  by  some  (Socho,  above),  usually,  classic  poems  are  left  in 
their  original  spelling.  Anraku  Sakuden,  or  whomever  he  ripped  off  (he 
reminds  me  of  Sufi  story-tellers:  anything  is  fair  game),  did  not  come 
upon  that  pun  easily.  Be  that  as  it  may,  the  scene,  with  the  use  of  wit  to 
rationalize  a  bit,  is  so  perfect  one  hates  to  imagine  it  did  not  really  happen. 
If  ever  there  was  a  good  place  to  invoke  a  ben  trovato,  this  is  it. 

The  enormous  number  of  take-offs  sown  by  this  waka  much  reviled  by 
humorless  moderns  speaks  in  its  honor;  but  one  can  understand  how  those 
who  hate  it  could  take  the  same  for  proof  of  how  much  harm  it  has  done! 
Despite  Shiki's  rude  remarks,  haikai  poets,  including  young  Basho  (1644- 
94),  greatly  enjoyed  the  contradictions,  which  may  seem  artificial  but 
actually  come  from  the  nature  of  nature  (Does  the  earth  not  keep  growing 
colder  after  the  sun  turns  around?).  Scores  of  examples  of  their  calendrical 
play  are  in  my  book  The  Fifth  Season  (2007),  the  title  of  which  reflects  the 
fact  that  the  New  Year  in  multi-volume  haiku  almanacs  had  a  volume  to 
itself  as  the  other  four  seasons  do. 

toshi-no-uchi  ni  haru  wa  kinikeri  iranu  sewa  issa  1816 
year-inside=house,  spring's  done  come:  unneeded  help 


Thanks  but  no  thanks 


There  is  a  season 


Early  Spring 


Spring,  go  home! 
Old  man  Winter  doesn 't 
need  your  help. 


Do-goody  Spring, 
must  you  barge  right  into 
Winter 's  house! 


Hold  your  horses! 
the  Winter  and  I  do  not 
need  your  help. 


This  is  no  kyoka.  But,  you  could  call  it  a  kyoku,  or  haiku-length  equivalent. 
No  poem  succeeds  in  tying  the  premature  Spring  to  real  emotion,  until  this, 
by  Issa,  who  took  the  first  13  syllabets  directly  from  Motokata's  in/famous 
waka.  His  last  5,  iranu  sewa,  a  rude  colloquialism  for  "unneeded  help," 
bring  to  life  the  puns  on  the  "inside"  (uchi)  of  the  year  as  a  house  and  the 
"year"  (toshi)  as  an  elder.  Issa  was  not  the  first  to  use  those  puns,  but  his 
ku  trumps  his  predecessors'  because  it  has  feeling.  We  do  not  always 
want  the  winter  to  be  over  any  more  than  we  always  want  to  jump  out  of 
bed  at  dawn.  Hibernating  can  be  good  when  you  are  troubled;  spring 
thaws  out  things  better  left  frozen.  As  a  waka  by  Gyoson  (1055-1 135)  put  it 
"When  spring  comes  /  my  iced-up  sleeves  /  melt  down  /  and  serve  only  /  to 
lodge  the  moon.  "  {haru  kureha  sode  no  kori  mo  tokenikeri  morikuru  tsuki  no 
yadori  hakari  ni  skks  #1439).  Such  a  lachrymose  waka  might  be  considered 
a  kyoka,  but  only  Issa's  colloquialism  manages  to  make  it  real. 


152 


san  suji  made  yama  no  hitai  ni  harugasumi  kakaru  tokoro  e  izuru  asahina  magao  d.  1 829 
three  lines/sinews-until  mountain's  brow-on  spring-mist  sets  place-to/while  appear  morning-sun 

An  Asahina  New  Year 

At  the  moment  three  lines  of  spring  haze  form  on  its  brow 
The  mountain,  smiles  to  greet  the  rising  morning  sun 

Just  when  spring  haze  has  drawn  three  lines  that  crown 
The  brow  of  a  hill  in  Asahina  -  up  comes  that  Sun! 

the  character  for  Spring,  also  means  the  New  Year  of  which  haze  is  a 
prime  symbol.  "Smiling,"  not  in  the  original,  but  common  conceit  for 
Japanese  mountains  in  the  spring,  wrinkles  a  brow.  Lines  resembling  three 
H  and  the  sun  0  are  found  in  the  character.  Mountain  |il  is  not  in  it, 
except  vaguely  in  a  more  triangular  ancient  form.  New  Year's  Day  is 
sometimes  called  the  "start  of  three,  "  referring  to  the  new/first  day,  month 
and  year.  The  "morning  sun,"  #j  0  asahi,  puns  into  a  toponym,  Asahina 
^t^k.  The  hi  it  in  the  middle  of  the  name  is  not  the  hi  for  sun  but  would 
sound  the  same  and  the  additional  character  ^na  at  the  end  clinches  it. 
Both  readings  take  liberty  with  the  syntax.  The  original  relational  flow 
(not  order)  of  this  'Japanese  style'  poem  is  "The  Asahina  =  morning-sun 
coming  out  right  at  the  point  when  three  lines  of  spring  haze  have  settled 
on  the  brow  of  the  mountain. ft <d  rjiiMl^Hj  40-  Re- 

constructing a  character  in  itself  seems  suitable  for  this  Day  of  Beginning. 

tabako  nomu  uchiyori  haru  wa  kinikerashi  kemuri  mo  kasumu  hana  no  saki  kana  shocho? 
tobacco  smoking  within-from  spring-as-for  comes!/?/:  smoke  even  mists  nose  (=blossoms)-before! 

P  Before  the  bloom  (tobacco  fills  the  room)  J> 

Spring  came,  when  I  was  taking  a  smoke  -  And  the  proof? 
Behold  the  haze  that  hangs  thick  as  pudding  from  my  nose! 

This  is  from  the  watershed  kyoka  anthology,  Kokin  Ikyoku-shu,  or  Old- 
now  Savage  Songs  (1666).  Haikai  link- verse  of  this  time  was  full  of 
tobacco  smoke  in  place  of  spring  haze  so  the  poet  really  had  to  work  this 
to  be  novel.  It  starts  with  a  take-off  on  Spring-within-the-year,  punning 
"within  the  house"  plays  on  the  proverbial  haze  and  ends  with  punning 
"nose-tip"  =  hana-no-saki  =  "blossoms-before."  (  P  The  740-page  Monster 
has  a  whole  two-page  chapter  for  tobacco,  including  a  word  about  health  effects!) 


153 


medetai  to  ieba  medetai  to  iu  koso  kuchi-maneko  ma-neshogatsu  no  rei  gisai  1 666 
joyful/lucky  say-if  joyful/lucky  say  espec.  mimicker  realsleepng(=mimic)  ny  greetings 

Happy  New  Year!  Say  it,  &  it  is  a  Happy  New  Year,  indeed, 
To  Spend  this  Day  in  bed,  parroting  greetings  half-asleep! 

Your  translator  once  credited  Issa  with  bringing  the  word  ne-shogatsu,  or, 
the  "sleeping  New  Year's  Day"  into  haikai.  Considering  the  existence 
(and  date)  of  this  kyoka,  that  is  highly  unlikely. 

hoki  tatete  zori  e  kyu  o  suyuru  to  mo  senshu-banzei  ware  wa  nagajiri  shokusanjin 
broom+acc  stand,  sandal-to  moxa+acc  burn  even  1000-falls-lOOOOyears  I-as-4  long-butt 


P  One  More  to  Celebrate  P 


Though  the  moxa 
burns  my  sandal  soles  and 
brooms  stand  high, 

A  thousand  falls  will  pass 
before  I'll  say  good-bye! 


Burn  my  old  soles 
and  rake  me  over  the  coals, 
1000 falls  are  good! 

Stand  a  broom  upon  its  butt 
I'm  staying  put:  Understood? 


Banzei!  I'm  Still  Here! 

Burn  that  moxa  on  my  sandal  soles,  stand  up  that  old  broom  - 
A  Thousand  Falls! '  —  I'll  be  damned  if  I  leave  the  room  at  all! 

A  "thousand  autumns  ten-thousand  years."  A  New  Year's  wish  for  a  long 
life.  Banzei  is  banzai  but  sounds  more  brazen,  which  fits  this  poem.  The 
broom  and  moxa  are  obvious  and  magical  charms  to  get  a  visitor  to  move 
on.  In  a  land  where  even  a  hayseed  like  Issa  often  expressed  guilt  for 
living  too  long,  it  is  refreshing  to  hear  a  samurai  choose  life! 


kadomatsu  Xgantan  wa  meido  no  tabi  no  ichirizuka  medetaku  mo  ari  medetaku  mo  nashi  ikkyu 
gatepine/s  (or  newyear's-morn)-as-for  hades/purgatory's  travel's  1-mile-mound:  lucky  are  &  lucky  are-not 


What  are  gate-pines  What 's  the  First  Day, 

But  milestones  on  the  Way  but  a  milestone  on  the  way 

to  the  Netherworld?  to  the  world  below? 

Lucky  for  trav  'lers,  perhaps  A  new  year  is  propitious 

but  unlucky  if  you 'd  stay.  And  very  much  not  so! 


154 


As  Japanese  aged  collectively  on  the  New  Year  (see  The  Fifth  Season:  2007), 
it  was  the  time  for  bitter-sweet  reflection  on  aging.  Only  a  Zen  iconoclast 
like  Ikkyu  could  take  an  evergreen  symbol  of  longevity,  the  beautiful 
Gate-pine,  generally  a  pair  of  black  (male)  and  red  (female)  trident  pine 
branches  standing  in  green  bamboo  vases  outside  the  gate,  and  turn  it  into 
a  marker  of  mortality,  but  what  can  one  expect  from  a  man  said  to  walk 
around  with  a  skull  on  New  Year's  Day!  The  "travelers"  and  "if  you  stay" 
are  added.  The  gate-pine  variant  is  far  better  known  than  the  First  Day  one. 
It  was  a  very  well-known  kyoka-style  doka,  or  religious  poem.  The  idea  of 
having  mixed  emotions  about  a  beloved  calendrical  happening  went  back 
at  least  to  Ariwara  no  Narihira's  poem  in  the  Tales  of  Ise  (c.1000): 

teUfrtcfeM  £ h "C C rt^r wo htill \<D&\ >ift5fc©  ##AA 
okata  wa  tsuki  o  mo  medeji  kore  zo  kono  tsumoreba  hito  no  oi  to  naru  mono 
mostly  moon+acc  even  delight-not  this+emp  these  pile-when  person 's/s'  age(=burden)  becomes+ 

For  the  most  part,  even  full  moons  do  not  delight  me  - 
They  pile  up  on  us,  they  do,  and,  soon,  we  are  buried! 

To  atone  for  the  lost  pun  on  age  3k=oi  as  a  burden  =ik  that  makes  the 
poem  a  near  kyoka,  old  was  changed  to  buried  to  create,  together  with  pile 
up,  an  allegory  and  regain  some  wit.  To  return  to  Ikkyu 's  marker,  the 
best  mad  poem  on  Gate-pines  is  not  a  kyoka  but  a  kyoku  by  a  top  17c 
Teimon  school  haikai-master: 

haru  tatsuya  nihon  medetaki  kado  no  matsu  tokugen  1559-1647 
spring  arrives=stands!/:  two=Nihon(Japan)  =>legs?  joyous  gate-pines 

Spring  stands  on 
its  own  two  legs,  gate-pines: 
Nippon  is  fine! 

The  puns  in  this,  the  most  famous  gate-pine  ku,  do  not  English.  The 
"nihon, "  or,  two,  with  the  counter  hon/bon/pon,  signifying  long  things 
such  as  these  decorations,  sounds  like  the  name  of  the  nation,  and  this, 
together  with  the  fact  that  the  verb  used  for  the  coming  of  the  season,  also 
means  to  stand,  subtly  turns  the  long  upright  decorations  into  legs:  the 
Spring  =  infant  Year  stands  up,  hurrah!  It  may  well  be  the  most  cheerful 
poem  ever  written  in  Japanese.  And,  the  below  is  the  final  word  on 
Ikkyu 's  poem.  It  trumps  it  with  the  perfect  metaphor  for  complex  feelings. 

mata  hitotsu  toshi  wa  yoru  to  mo  tamatebako  akete  ureshiki  kesa  no  hatsu  haru  moto  no  mokuami 
again  one  year-as-for  approaches  yet  gem-hand-box  opening  happy  this  morn's  first  spring  1785 


Another  one!  A  new  year  comes  to  make  us  older  yet 
We  delight  to  open  up  that  legendary  treasure  chest! 

The  "treasure  chest"  refers  to  one  opened  as  a  last  resort  by  Japan's  Rip 
Van  Winkle,  Urashima  Tard,  after  the  fisherman,  returning  from  the  Sea 
Dragon's  Palace,  found  everyone  he  knew  long  dead  and  grew  lonely.  I 
will  not  give  away  the  end  of  the  tale  -  but,  in  this  context,  perhaps  you 
can  guess.  Unfortunately,  Pandora's  box  will  not  do  for  even  a  mad 
translation  as  it  lacks  the  focus  on  aging.  The  poet  Mokuami's  wife  Chie 
no  Naishi,  Little  Ignoramus,  the  most  popular  woman  in  Tenmei  kyoka, 
had  the  next  poem  in  the  Tokuwa  Kago  Kyokashu  (1785): 

my ~£-tt^<Dm(Dzfj:ti «t 9#^^trj-rtt£<£>B<E>£  wm\h^- 

torimasu  to  iwato  no  seki  no  konata  yori  haru  e  fumidasu  kesa  no  hi  no  ashi 
"passing-will/am!"  and/with,  cavern-gate's  checkpoint's  beyond  from 
spring-into  stepping-put/starts  this-morning's  sun's/sunny  legs/feet 

From  beyond  the  Cavern's  checkpoint  gate,  "I'm  coming  through!" 
As  her  beaming  legs  pass  into  Spring,  I  hear  the  Sun  -  do  you? 

"Coming  through! "  From  without  the  cavern 's  checkpoint  gate 
The  Sun  on  beaming  legs  passes  into  Spring  -  immaculate! 

The  cave,  of  course,  echoes  the  primeval,  or  mythic  coming  out  of  the  Sun 
Goddess.  What  makes  Little  Ignoramus's  poem  a  breath  of  fresh  air  in  the 
original  is  the  Sun/Day  shouting  out  as  people  passing  through  check- 
points were  supposed  to.  The  sound  of  announcing  oneself  in  a  crisp, 
clear  voice  ending  on  the  definitive  conjugation  of  a  Japanese  verb  must 
be  heard  to  be  appreciated.  Sun-beams,  like  distant  rain  falling  from 
clouds,  are  idiomatically  "os7z/=legs;"  and  what  is  idiomatic  does  not  seem 
idiotic,  which  is  to  say  anthropomorphic,  as  is  the  case  in  translation.  The 
original  has  no  "I  hear  the  Sun  -  do  you?"  but  with  so  much  lost  in 
translation,  something  had  to  be  done.  The  second  reading,  from  the  740- 
page  Monster,  for  better  or  worse,  added  one  big  word  to  try  to  capture  the 
indescribable  smart  feeling.  All  who  have  read  much  Japanese  poetry 
know  of  the  following  poem  by  Yomo  no  Akara,  but,  in  Japanese,  if  your 
translator  is  not  mistaken,  Little  Ignoramus'  "Coming  through!"  poem  is, 
in  its  own  way,  just  as  good  if  not  better. 

namayoi  no  reisha  o  mireba  dmichi  o  yokosujikai  ni  haru  wa  kinikeri  shokusanjin 
raw-drunk  caller+acc  see-if/when  big-road+acc  sidewise  cross/zigzaging  spring-as-for  comes 

Heading  this  way,  a  drunk  New  Year  caller,  zig-zagging 
up  the  boulevard  I  see  -  Here  comes  the  Spring! 


Greeting  cards  are  standard  today,  but  once  people  personally  conveyed 
their  thanks  for  help  rendered  in  the  previous  year  and  offer  their  best 
wishes  for  the  New  one.  They  also  exchanged  toasts  with  Tosozake,  a 
special  medical  rice  wine.  Brownas  and  Thwaite  did  a  good  job  on  this 
famous  kyoka,  one  of  a  mere  four  they  deigned  to  include  in  their  Penguin 
Book  of  Japanese  Verse.  "A  BLIND  DRUNK  /  New  Year  Caller  /  I  see: 
spring  /  Coming,  lurching  /  Across  the  street."  This,  too,  is  possible: 

To  see  our  drunken  New  Year  callers  weaving  up  the  street 
That  Spring  manages  to  come  at  all  is  quite  the  feat! 

Your  translator  thinks  Akara  saw  a  person  in  the  distance  and  assumed  he 
was  coming  his  way,  but  was  surprised  to  see  him  in  such  good  spirits  that 
he  could  not  help  calling  on  others  as  he  came  -  but,  who  knows! 


kakegoi  no  yoake  ni  omoki  kawa  saifu  katsugishi  kata  mo  haru  wa  kinikeri 
dunner's  day-break-at  heavy  leather  purse/bag  carrying  shoulder's  spring-as-for  came 

The  debt-collector,  his  leather  bag  heavy  as  New  Year 's  day  breaks. 
In  his  shoulders,  he  too  feels  the  swelling  that  Spring 's  coming  makes. 

The  pivotal  homophone,  haru,  first  swelling,  then  spring  (New  Year),  is 
lost  in  translation,  but  we'll  keep  the  poem  as  a  novelty  among  novelties. 
Not  only  poems  by  commoners  but  by  samurai  thought  of  dunners  as 
devils.  But  Meshimori,  an  inn-keeper,  had  debts  to  collect.  With  many 
poor  samurai  to  collect  from,  a  dunner  never  knew  when  one  would  crack, 
and  whip  out  his  sword.  The  poem  deserves  to  be  not  just  as  famous,  but 
more  famous  than  the  much-translated  Spring-zig-zagging-up-the-street. 


kino  made  maruhadaka  naru  yamahime  mo  kasumi  no  kinu  o  kisosome  seri  hoseki  1679 
yesterday-until  round-naked  is  mountain-princess  also  mist's  silk/dress+acc  wear-starts 

Even  the  princess  of  the  mountain,  buck-naked  yesterday, 
Has  put  on  her  misty  robes,  the  year 's  first  dress  -  Hooray! 

Calling  the  princess  buck-naked  is  funny  in  itself.  While  many  poets 
make  a  big  deal  of  Fuji's  snow,  few  treat  the  mountains  closer  to  hills  in 
actual  size  near  Kyoto  that  are  identified  with  Princess  Sao,  so  one  might 
indeed  wonder  what  she  wore  before  the  mist  of  spring,  in  the  relatively 
dry  and  clear  Japanese  winter.  The  "hooray! "  was  added  not  just  for  the 
rhyme  but  to  convey  the  joy  of  first-dress,  one  of  the  most  significant 
Firsts  of  the  New  Year.  Here  is  a  surimono  kyoka  take  on  the  rite: 


157 


fe&f&<D&<Dffi\C&it1bX  fr1-%-<Dfll$;]fo&W><DM  Pff*£#^  1799 
saohime  no  koromo  no  ura  ni  haru  tachite  kasumi  no  sode  o  nuu  oki  no  fune  nanshi  no  harutsugu 
sao  princess's  clothing's  reverse/lining's  spring  arrives/cutting  misty  sleeve+acc  sewing  offshore-boat 

Spring  comes  to  Princess  Sao 's  Robe-within  Bay  to  cut  the  fabric  for 
Her  sleeves  of  mist  loosely  sewn  by  the  tacking  boats  offshore. 

As  the  New  Year  arrives  /  at  the  Bay  of  Koromo,  /  Saohime,  goddess  of  spring, 
wears  robes  woven  with  mist  /  covering  boats  in  the  offing.  -  trans,  carpenter 

Surimono  were  beautiful  prints  accompanied  by  one  or  more  -  three  to 
four  being  average  -  kyoka,  generally  commissioned  by  a  kyoka  master 
and  presented  to  his  or  her  clients  for  New  Year's.  Consequently,  most  of 
the  themes  pertain  to  that  season.  The  Hokusai  print  from  An  Array  of 
Beauties  for  the  Year  of  the  Sheep  with  the  above  kyoka  (in  Carpenter  et 
al.:  "Reading  Surimono  "  2008)  shows  a  girl  pulling  taut  a  piece  of  red  tie- 
dyed  fabric  held  between  her  delicate  little  mouth  and  tiny  fingers  while 
her  free  hand  pinches  or  pins  a  crease.  Carpenter's  added  description, 
"goddess  of  spring"  creates  something  rare  in  Japanese-English  translation, 
a  rhyme.  There  are  a  handful  of  fabric  and  sewing-related  words  worked 
into  the  original,  with  the  wittiest  making  boat/s  sew  (nuu).  My  "tacking" 
clarifies  that  seemingly  overlooked  metaphor.  As,  Carpenter  improves  the 
poem  by  uniting  the  Goddess  with  her  Spring,  an  ideal  translation  might 
start  with  his,  and  simply  replace  "covering"  with  "tacked  by." 

kayuzue  nifurimuku  imo  ga  mi  wa  yorete  ito  no  yanagi  no  koshi  ni  me  mo  tsuku  asakusa  an 
gruel-stck-to  turnng-faces  girl's  body-as4  twist/braiding  thread-wllw-hip/waist-to  buds=eyes  attach 

Turning  to  face  the  gruel  stick  the  girl's  lithe  body  twists 
And  all  our  eyes  are  drawn  to  the  willow 's  budding  hips. 

Turning  to  face  the  gruel  stick,  how  the  nubile  maiden 's  body  twists, 
while  eyes  by  strands  are  drawn  toward  pussy  willow  buds  &  hips! 

Carpenter's  translation  -  "During  'gruel-stick'  rites,  a  young  girl  looks 
back  as  she  twists  and  turns,  with  hips  as  slender  as  boughs  of  budding 
willow"  -  is  fine  except  for  making  "rite"  explicit;  but  his  explanation 
was  invaluable,  for  identifying  the  woman  depicted  (not  being  whacked) 
was  a  samurai  wife  by  her  hat,  which  matters  because  buttocks  were 
wacked  to  produce  boys,  something  particularly  important  to  samurai,  and 
that  connects  the  poem  and  picture.  Gruel  usually  means  the  Seventh  Day 
seven  greens/herbs,  but  this  takes  place  on  the  so-called  "Small  New 
Year"  or  "Woman's  New  Year  (meshogatsuy  on  the  Fifteenth  Day,  or, 
full-moon.  The  hips  are  where  willow  limbs  bend  over  and  twisting=yoru 
becomes  braiding  because  slender  pendulant  limbs  are  called  threads  in 
Japanese;  but  what  makes  the  poem  worthy  is  not  that  simple  confluence 


158 


of  terms,  but  the  artless  pun  on  "me  tb"  meaning  "bud  W  or  "eyes  g  "  in 
the  last  ku.  All  I  could  do  was  make  the  willow  a  pussy.  Where  Carpenter 
wrote  of  "playfully  tapping  women's  buttocks  with  sticks  of  wood  used  to 
stoke  the  fire  heating  azuki-bean  gruel",  I  imagined  stirring  said  gruel 
(with  the  lunar  part  of  old  mirror  mochi  rice-cake  or  samurai  armor-mochi) 
with  the  same.  We  were  both  right.  The  stick,  looks  burnt  on  one  end 
(shaved  to  light  the  fire?)  but  stirs  the  pot  with  the  other.  Since  a  haiku 
mentions  the  scent  of  citron  "known  by"  a  woman's  behind  ("^tt^ttcoil 
\z~  5  L5(f  ?)  £n  h  fritz  <9  it5r  kayuzue  ya  yuzu  no  ka  ni  ushiro 
(ato?)shiraretari  ryosoku?  rinsoku?  18c?   If  Mtt^iPtfE X^fff^    r^j  fri 

it  would  seem  that  was  the  end  used  for  whacking.  Another  haiku,  also 
probably  predating  the  kyoka,  sums  up  beautifully, 

m£^M<&^V  LX  otzfrilfrV  Hit 

kayuzue  ni  niguru  furi  shite  utarekeri  sankyo? 
gruelstick-from  fleeing  simulate-doing  beaten+emphatic 

A  woman  hit 
while  pretending  to  flee 
the  gruel  stick!" 

In  translation,  the  following  kyoka  by  Getsudoken  loses  a  fine  Tom  Swifty  {keenly= 
tsukuz(ts)uku  =strike),  but  it  is  a  great  example  of  what  can  only  be  a  kyoka.  Cooked 
sweet-rice  is  pounded  into  mochi,  a  smooth  white,  rubbery  substance  that  dries  hard 
but  rapidly  balloons  when  toasted  usually  called  "cake"  for  lack  of  a  better  word.  It  is 
touching  to  watch  an  old  couple  pound  mochi  together  -  the  man  swinging  the  long- 
headed unstable  mallet  (pestle  is  not  quite  right,  neither  the,  or  "pole,"  in  the  original)  as 
the  woman  moves  the  huge  glob  of  rice  about  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 

ham  o  matsu  mochi  o  tsukuzuku  to  omou  ni  mo  usu  to  sao(kme?)  to  wa  toto  kaka  no  goto 
spring=swell+acc  waiting  ricecake+acc  pound-x2=keenly  thinkng  even  mortr&pstle-as4  dad-mom  resemble 

Composed  upon  seeing  mochi  pounded  on  the  New  Year. 

Pounding  sweet-rice  to  prime  the  Spring  pounds  it  into  me: 
The  mortar  and  the  pestle  are  ma  and  pa,  it  has  to  be! 


P  A  ben  trovato?  Something  that  ought  to  be  true,  even  if  it  is  made-up.  Italian.  From  the  saying 
"se  e  non  vero,  e  ben  trovato  "  or,  "while  not  true,  it  is  well  invented." 

P  Over  90%  -  maybe  99%  -  of  kyoka  translated  to  date  are  in  surimono,  but  The  Monster  was 
almost  finished  before  your  translator  knew  that.  Why?  Because  they  were  in  art  books  (usually 
catalogs)  and  did  not  find  their  way  to  correspondents  in  Japanese  literature  departments  who  read 
specialized  reviews  that  often  fail  to  catch  what  is  published  outside  of  the  usual  presses.  The  high 
price  of  these  books  also  keeps  them  all  but  art  students  and  wealthy  collectors. 


Mad  Seasons:  a  Spring  with  Country  Matters 

sao-hime  no  suso  fukikaeshi  yawarakana  keshiki  o  soso  to  misuru  harukaze  teitoku  17c 
sao  princess's  skirt  blowing-back  soft  scenery+acc.  gently:quim  show/s  spring-wind/s 

P  Mons  Vernal  is  P  P  Mt.  Tender  est  P 

How  soft  a  scene  So,  so  lovingly 

above  her  foothills  pleasing  the  warm  winds  of  spring 

the  eye  that  flirts  lift  the  misty  skirt 

as  the  spring  breeze  softly  of  Princess  Sao  to  show 

lifts  sao  hime 's  misty  skirts  the  tender  heart  of  earth. 

Sao  Hime,  Princess  of  Spring  of  newly  verdant  hills  and  vales,  wearing  the 
mist  and  adorned  with  flowers  .  .  .  No  flowers  are  mentioned  but  this 
poem  from  Teitoku's  Hundred  Kyoka  is  lyrical  enough  to  be  mad  in  Japan 
where  reverie  is  rare.  Both  readings  are  slightly  off.  It  might  more 
justifiably  be  titled  Ventus  Adventis  or  The  Coming  of  the  Wind,  for  every 
word  modifies  the  protagonist  bringing  up  the  tail:  "Blowing  back  the  hem 
of  Princess  Sao 's  robe  to  gently  reveal  a  soft  scene,  the  Spring  Wind.  "  But 
how  do  we  stay  focused  on  the  Wind,  rather  than  what  he  shows  us  in  this 
verbal  shunga,  or  spring(erotic)-print  when  English  poesy  wants  to  make  a 
scene  rather  than  modify  the  wind? 

What  a  soft  country,  the  scenery  above  her  knees  - 
Sao-hime 's  skirts  lifted  gently  by  the  April  breeze! 

In  the  original,  Sao's  sex  lies  where  Issa  would  put  his  shimijimi= 
extremely  (spiteful)=silverfish,  in  an  adverb,  soso,  or  gently,  a  fine  old 
word  for  what  the  Bard  called  country  matters.  Prefaced  with  the  accusa- 
tive marker  for  the  scenery  (keshiki),  it  becomes  the  more  polite  o-soso, 
preferred  for  the  same  in  Teitoku's  Kyoto!  Compare  this  gentle  eroticism 
with  the  rudely  described  buck-naked  princess  in  the  New  Year  chapter 
and  you  will  have  in  two  poems  the  high  road  and  the  low  road  to  kyoka. 

And  speaking  of  the  latter  road,  Issa  the  haikai-master  often  took  it. 

GrAsS  hut  airs 

What  wind  I  break 
into  sweet  plum 's  bouquet! 
Spring  has  finally  come 
to  this  old  fart. 


160 


O 


o 


time  ga  ka  ni  onara  no  nioi  kokimazete  kusa  no  iori  mo  harube  narikeri  issa 
(plum  scent  in  hon. fart's  smell  mixing  grass=stinky  hut  too  spring=swollen  is!) 

When  Spring  came,  commoners  eating  gas-inducing  daikon  pickles  and 
other  salted  greens  that  outlasted  winter  were  full  of  what  Mexicans  might 
call  fhjoles.  Issa,  using  the  double-verb  koki-mazete  in  a  number  of  haiku, 
confesses  (or  boasts?)  to  mixing  his  stink  with  the  scent  of  the  plum. 
Married  for  the  first  time  at  age  52,  his  young  wife  was  pregnant,  so  it  is 
likely  the  flowering  plum  is  her,  with  breasts  full  of  milk.  Plum  is  written 
#£.  Can  you  see  the  M  mother  in  it,  tits  and  all?  While  those  tits  also  look 
like  the  little  plums  that  resemble  the  full  nipples  of  a  nursing  woman,  in 
Japanese,  the  plum  by  itself,  like  the  cherry,  implies  the  bloom,  not  fruit. 
The  above  reading,  a  paraverse  rather  than  translation  because  of  the 
blatant  addition  of  "old  fart,"  uses  "bouquet"  to  convey  that.  Issa's  spring 
was  in  his  fall.  A  usage  of  koki-mazete  in  waka  he  would  have  known 
mixes  cherry  blossoms  and  green  willow  to  bring  a  trope  associated  with 
colored  leaves,  a  Chinese  robe,  or  brocade,  into  the  spring.  Reading  Joyce 
on  the  toilet  (who  can  take  him  more  than  a  poop  at  a  time?),  Professor  Bloom 
inspired  another  translation  picking  up  on  harube  (spring=harube=swell): 


O 


o 


o  O 


O 


o 


The  scent  of  plum 
in  bloom  and  smelly  farts 
mix  together . . . 

O 

How  my  old  grass  hut 
swells  with  the  spring! 


O 


O 


O 


o 


o 


o 


Issa's  original,  like  most  kyoka,  including  traditional  poetic  language,  lies 
between  the  two  readings.  He  is  feeling  both  his  age  and  his  oats.  So,  now, 
we  have  seen  the  Beauty  and  the  beast.  Here  comes  the  Nightingale: 

kokoro  kara  hana  no  shizuku  ni  sobochi  tsutsu  uku  hizu  to  nomi  tori  no  naku  ran  toshiyuki  905 
heart-from  blossom's  drops-by  drenched-while  troubled/excited=warb=dry-not=ler  only  bird  cries! 


Willfully  he  rips 
thru  the  blossoms,  then,  drenched 
by  their  nectar 

Why  does  our  Thrush  Hector  cry? 
Because  his  feathers  will  not  dry! 


Flying  from  tree  to 
tree,  with  wingborn  wind,  he 
knocks  off  blossoms 

All  the  while  crying  up  a  storm, 
He  blames  others  for  the  deed! 


treelimbtip-traveling  own  wing-wind-in/from  scatter  blossms+acc  who  blaming  here-there  cries! 
kozutaeba  onoga  hakaze  ni  chiru  hana  o  tare  ni  dsete  kokora  nakuran  monk  sosei  905 


In  case  you  wonder  what  happened  to  the  promised  Nightingale  -  well,  it 
died  with  Peking.  Nowadays,  most  translators  call  the  uguisu  that, 
depending  on  the  poem,  brings  the  spring  to  the  flowering  trees  or  comes 
to  despoil  them,  a  bush  warbler  or  a  thrush.  The  first  poem,  a  wordplay  #3 
^(lit.  thing-name)  poem  from  bk  10  of  Kokinshu,  breaks  uguisu  into  two 
words,  uku  hizu,  where  uku  means  "feeling  blue"  and  hizu  "not  to  dry."  It 
works  best  as  a  paper  pun  -  that  is,  visually  -  as  the  reader  used  to  supply 
or  leave  blank  the  nigori,  or  muddy-marks  settling  the  pronunciation.  Yet, 
the  muddy  marks  for  the  s  =>  z  sound  are  supplied  in  most  renderings  of 
this  poem,  probably  because  otherwise  the  uku+hizu  reading  might  well 
be  missed,  but  once  the  marks  are  there,  the  reading  is  not  optional  so 
there  was  either  a  hick  uguizu  pronunciation  of  the  bird  or  said  muddy- 
marks  were  explained  away  as  water-drops!  The  fancy  split- word  pun  and 
ridiculous  but  not  exceptionally  vulgar  content  makes  this  Kokinshu 
"word-play"  an  excellent  example  of  what  would  come  to  be  called  a 
kyoka.  Hector  and  rhyme  only  made  up  for  half  of  the  loss  in  translation. 
The  second  poem  (originally  captioned  uguisu)  from  the  same  anthology 
does  not  engage  in  such  clever  wordplay,  but  shares  something  with 
conceptual  kyoka.  With  such  wacky  waka  already  out  there,  it  was  hard 
for  kyoka  to  find  a  novel  purchase.  Haikai  that  could  jump  ship  for  the 
final  7-7  and  add  still  add  something  to  that  wit:  brevity. 


Kyoka,  the  same  length  as  other  waka  and  intended  to  be  read  as  a  stand- 
alone, could  not  do  that.  But  it  had  to  do  something. 


su  o  ba  ato  ni  nokoshi  idetaru  tanikawa  no  sakana  ni  haketsutsu  ukui  nakunari  yuchoro 
nest+emph  behind  leaving  depart  valley-river's  fish-divulge-while  ugui  dies/sings 

Ale  with  tears  flow  side  by  side  as  nighting  swim  and  cry, 
Spilling  out  their  guts,  until,  like  that  little  bird,  they  die. 

Here  is  what  the  first-man  of  16c  kyoka,  Yuchoro  came  up  with  when  he 
crossed  a  fish  called  ugui,  said  to  cry/sing,  with  the  song  of  the  bird  uguisu. 
The  ale+nighting  mimics  the  bassackwards  split-name,  though  the  reason 


blown  away 


acceptable  casualties 


wind  from  the  wings 
of  the  warbler!  blossoms 
felled  by  friendlies 


blossoms  dropped 
by  friendly  fire:  wind  from 
nightingale 's  wing 


162 


the  ugui  sings=cries=dies  (nakunari)  is  that  it  leaves  its  (mountain  brook) 
nest,  or  su,  behind  to  address  other  fish  in  the  vale.  The  reading  reaches 
back  to  the  old  translation  of  uguisu  to  find  a  substitute  for  the  nest-as-su 
pun  in  the  sacrificial  concept  of  the  nightingale.  Exceedingly  creative  and 
untranslatable,  the  poem  does  things  only  Tenmei  kyoka  are  supposed  to 
do,  but  is  only  a  stylistic  gloss,  dead  in  translation.  Yuchoro's  17c 
reincarnation,  Getsudoken  also  pulled  out  all  the  stops: 

hatsu  koe  wa  senzuri  koe  ka  shiwagarete  naisho  no  niwa  ni  ki  naku  uguisu  getsudoken 
first-voice-as-4  masturbate  voice?  wrinkling/husky  inner  garden-in  coming  sing  cuckoo 

Is  that  not  the  voice  of  one  lost  in  self-pleasure?  The  first  thrush 
Singing  in  our  garden  shade  .  .  .  gurgles  so  to  make  us  blush! 

Is  the  first  song  of  that  warbler  not  the  voice  of jacking  off? 
What  strange  gurgling  comes  from  a  corner  of  our  bosquel 

The  uguisu  is  no  mockingbird  and  lacks  even  the  house  wren's  variety.  It 
just  repeats  its  hokekkyo  sutra  over  and  over.  Still,  the  first  calls  involve 
much  initial  sucking  (for  good  imitation  learn  to  whistle  in  as  well  as  out)  and 
seem  particularly  liquid,  perhaps  because  it  wavers,  as  if  the  throat  is  not 
yet  grooved.  The  translator,  fortunate  enough  to  hear  it  year  after  year, 
prefers  that  warm-up  with  its  slight  variation  and  more  complex  grain  to 
the  later  calls  which  seem  smooth  and  mechanical.  The  poet  is  to  be 
commended  for  listening  so  carefully  and  being  honest  about  what  he 
heard,  that  confirms  the  nature  of  his  mind's  ear,  suspected  already 
because  of  the  extraordinary  number  of  erotic  kyoka  in  his  Big  Fan  ^EB 
collection.  The  poem  itself  is  pretty  poor,  but  it  tells  us  a  lot  about  kyoka. 

hosoboso  to  naku  uguisu  no  hatsune  ni  wa  asa  to  umaru  mo  oyobazarikeri  koan  1666 
finely/thinly  sings  warbler's  first-sound-in-as-for  morning-with-born  even  matches-not! 

The  first  songs  of  our  Uguisu  are  so  delicate  a  thing 
Confucius  sounds  crude  with  'Born  in  the  morning  ~ ' 

The  delicacy  of  the  wavering  beauty  of  the  first  voice  of  the  uguisu  is 
compared  to  the  proverbial  transience  of  the  Morning  Glory  (in  a  well- 
known  saying  of  Confucius).  While  Getsudoken  was  perceptive  to  catch 
the  erotic  quality,  the  slight  wavering  liquidity  is  not  as  husky,  or  rough  as 
he  made  it  out  to  be  and  this  slightly  earlier  kyoka,  is  by  far  the  better 
observation.  Readers  who  love  the  way  Hank  Williams'  voice  slips  back 
and  forth  on  the  edge  of  a  note  in  the  Emmett  Miller-style  semi-yodel  part 
of  the  Love-sick  Blues  refrain  will  appreciate  this.  Others  may  not. 


163 


±E^£ffefi^0^^^#^  m^offih^htiVMhz.-btiV  line? 

waga  mune  wa  kyo  wa  nayakiso  wakakusa  no  mochi  mo  komoreri  sake  mo  komoreri  yoshio  iB'MHW^M 
my  breast-as-4  today-as-4  burn-not!  young-grass-mochi  (sweet-rice-cake)  hidden,  sake,  too,  hidden 


Girl 's  Day 

My  heart  burn  not,  not  today,  when  we  have  a  rendezvous 
w/  soft  sweet  cakes  of  rice,  grass-green,  &  wine  for  dew! 

Heart  burn  not  today,  we  need  this  space  to  lay  away 
Mochi  fragrant  as  spring  grass  &  cool  rivers  of  sake! 


musashi/kasuga-no  wa  kyo  wa  nayakiso  wakakusa  no  tsuma  mo  komoreri  ware  mo  komoreri  tale  of  ise  c.900 
musashi/kasuga  moor-as-4  today-as-4  burn-not  young-grass-spouse  hidden  I  too  hidden  +^^#  17 


Girl's  Day,  or  the  Doll  Festival,  takes  place  on  the  third  day  of  the  third 
month.  That  would  be  between  the  ume,  plum  (or  Japanese  apricot)  bloom 
and  the  cherry,  when  the  peach  blossomed.  Usually,  wine  and  the 
glutinous,  pounded  cooked  rice  called  mochi  -  translated  as  "cake"  for 
lack  of  a  word:  the  texture  is  far  from  cake  -  do  not  mix.  Drinkers  drink 
and  teetotalers  eat  mochi.  But  girl  day  was  an  exception.  It  would  seem 
the  combination  of  sweet  food  and  drink  caused  heartburn  for  some!  This 
kyoka,  a  take-off  on  a  Tale  of  Ise  poem  is  typical  for  turning  a  sexy 
original  -  absconding  lovers  hiding  in  a  field  face  the  threat  of  being  burnt 
out  (see  page  98  for  the  translation)  -  into  food.  If  translating  food  were 
not  painful  -  it  is  practically  meaningless  without  pictures  and  scent 
samples  -  we  might  have  a  whole  chapter  on  it.  The  kyoka  is  atypical, 
however,  for  being  the  rare  kyoka  utterly  boring  by  itself,  while  hilarious, 
a  masterpiece,  if  read  with  knowledge  of  the  original.  They  are  more 
similar  in  the  Japanese  as  the  romanizations  show.  SsfiM  :  f$hy~?"V'i~fao 


Now,  one  more  Spring  bird,  noted  not  for  coming  but  leaving  in  that 
season.  The  kaeri-kari,  or  geese  abandoning  the  flowers,  meaning 
blooming  cherries,  for  home  on  the  continent. 

kaeru  kari  ni  chigau  kumoji  no  tsubakurame  komaka  ni  koreya  kakeru  tamazusa 
returning  geese-with  differng  cloud-road's  swallw/s  finely/detailed  this+emph  writing  letter 

On  cloud-paths  in-bound  while  the  Anserine 's  out,  Swallows  near, 
Their  letters  too  damn  fine  to  read,  until  they  're  almost  here! 


While  "goose-swallow"  is  an  old  Chinese  idiom  for  two  (usually  people  or 
groups  of  people  or  messages)  that  pass  one  another  coming  and  going, 
epistolary  birds  other  than  geese  are  so  rare  that  this  waka  by  Monk 
Saigyo  (d.l  190)  reads  like  a  kyoka.  Your  translator,  with  his  failing 
eyesight,  added  the  value-judgment,  "too  damn"  to  what  was  emphasized 
but  not  criticized  in  the  original  to  make  it  madder  yet. 

fr*)  frte.<D  fc^fcjWLfc&o&Sr  te&^ofrT^  fcT#^5  btr  T'icH  1188 
karigane  no  momiji  ni  kakeshi  tamatsusa  o  hana  ni  tsuketeya  motekaeniramu  ng  H^r^f^^f 
geese's  red-leaves=maple-in  written  gem-letter+acc  blossom/nose-to  putting!/:  carrying  return 

Red  it  was,  as  this  epistle  came  in  with  the  maple  leaf; 
And  the  anserine  letter,  writ  in  bloom?  Sakura  serif. 

The  poet  is  not  anonymous  but  the  open  source  for  the  waka  anthology, 
Nichibun,  has  yet  to  enter  the  names  of  all  but  the  most  famous  poets  (if 
you  are  a  waka-\over  with  money,  please  pay  them  to  hire  a  secretary  to 
add  names!),  so  it  is  ng,  not  given.  No  matter,  by  the  time  you  see  it  in 
English,  the  poem  is  largely  the  translator's.  The  original  ends  in  a  pun  on 
blossoms=hana=nose  with  a  possibly  snooty  idiom  (JMCoftT)  no  big 
loss  in  translation,  but  fine  in  the  original  which  pushes  the  envelope  on 
goose-as-messenger  far  enough  to  make  a  kyoka.  With  few  homophones, 
compensatory  high-frequency  punning  in  English  requires  arcane  words. 

sennin  mo  tengu  mo  kumo  to  michigaete  kozue  o  fumu  na  miyoshino  no  hana 
sages  &  tengu  too  cloud  mistaking  tree-top+acc  step-on-not!  +hon+yoshino-blossoms 

Adepts  and  tengu  wizards  all,  step  not  to  thy  doom! 
A  cloud  may  be  a  treetop  when  Yoshino  is  in  bloom! 

Cherry  blossoms  on  hills  were  conflated  with  clouds  in  countless  waka 
and  haikai  (see  ch.17  "Blossom  Clouds,  Cloud  Blossoms"  of  The  Cherry 
Blossom  Epiphany  (2007)  "How  to  tell  the  clouds  from  the  blossoms"  in  the 
Table  of  Contents).  Old  Taoist  masters,  or  mountain  sages,  were  said  to 
retire  up  high  peaks  and  pass  their  time  on  the  clouds.  Tengu,  the  long- 
nosed  goblin  identified  with  mountain  wizards,  may  have  originated  from 
sightings  of  the  proboscis  monkey  in  ancient  times.  If  this  poem  had  been 
created  in  a  haikai  context,  it  would  be  hyperbolic  praise  of  Yoshino 's 
lush  cherry  blossoms.  Issa,  who  camped  out  up  there,  has  ku  about 
sleeping  on  those  clouds.  Coming  from  a  kyoka  master  (Yadoya  no 
Meshimori),  however,  we  know  the  intent  was  to  poke  fun  at  the 
overblown  conceit.  A  better-known  poem  by  Hezutsu  Tosaku  (1726-89), 
one  of  seven  kyoka  in  Steven  D.  Carter's  Traditional  Japanese  Poetry 
reads,  in  his  translation, 


yama  no  ha  ni  hana  ja  kumo  ja  to  arasoi  no  naka  e  deru  hiya  rachi  o  akebono. 
mountain's  ridge  blossoms  are!  clouds  are!  quarrel-into  come  sun  settle+acc  do=dawn 


"Are  they  blossoms 

or  clouds  on  that  mountain  ridge?" 
I  fight  with  myself - 
til  the  sun  intervenes 

to  settle  the  argument!  sc  trans. 


Tosaku's  poem,  captioned  "Blossoms  at  Dawn"  is,  until  the  last  word,  the 
first  half  (ake)  of  which  serves  as  a  verb  for  an  idiom  meaning  "decide 
matches"  before  concluding  as  akebono,  dawn,  a  purely  conceptual  kyoka. 
A  mad  translation  trying  to  keep  it  colloquial  almost  works: 


"They're  blossoms!"  "No,  Clouds!" 
Up  on  that  ridge  -  we  fight  until  dawn 
When  the  Sun  steps  in  and  settles  it 
One  of  me  is  wrong! 


The  difficulty  of  telling  apart  clouds  and  blossoms,  as  we  have  seen,  is 
nothing  new,  but  to  debate  oneself  so  ferociously  an  arbitrator  is  needed  is. 

hana  to  miba  sasnga  nasake  o  kakemashi  o  kumo  tote  kaze  no  harau-narubeshi  saigyo  12c 
blossom-as  see-when  yep  kindness  does?  "clouds  (as-if2say)"wind  blows/dissipates-ought 


A  Dutiful  Blast  An  Ideal  World 

Seeing  blossoms,  It  would  be  nice 

how  could  the  wind  not  to  have  storm  winds  free 
want  to  help!  to  c\ean  our  peaks 

It  is,  after  all,  supposed  to  of  those  loitering  clouds 

clear  away  clouds,  right?  yet  let  the  blossoms  be! 


tachimagau  mine  no  kumo  oba  harau  to  mo  hana  o  chirasanu  arashi  nariseba  saigyo 
arise  confuse  peak's  cloud+acc  disperse-though  blossoms  scatter-not  storm  be-if! 


Saigyo,  famous  lover  of  sakura,  also  could  see  things  from  the  Wind's 
point  of  view.  Waka  asking  the  wind  to  blast  view-blocking  clouds  or  lay 
off  blossoms  were  old  hat.  Combining  them,  as  in  the  second  poem,  is  new. 
Perhaps  it  should  be  with  the  plum+willow+cherry  tree  under  Fantasy! 
Poets  from  the  time  of  the  Manydshu,  when  cherry  blossoms  in  poetry 
were  still  fresh,  worried  lest  they  come  into  bloom,  stay  so  long  enough  to 
be  enjoyed,  or  suffer  wind  or  rain  damage  before  being  shared  with  others: 


166 


yo  no  naka  ni  taete  sakura  (onna)  no  nakariseba  haru  (otoko)  no  kokoro  wa  nodokekaramashi 
world-among  completely/end  cherries(women)  not-if  spring(males')  minds/hearts  placid  (be)  would 


If  cherry  trees 
would  only  vanish 
from  the  world 

Our  hearts  might  be 
serene  each  spring! 


Ariwara  no  Narihira.  KKS  #84  (10c) 


If  all  women 
would  only  vanish 
from  the  world 

Men 's  hearts  might  be 
happy  and  serene. 


Kyoka  by  Shokusan     P4        1 9c) 


Before  explaining  why  cherry  trees  trouble  people,  or  at  least  poets,  and 
why  the  parody  fits  so  well,  let  me  give  another  pair  of  translations  - 


If  cherry  blossoms 
were  to  vanish  completely 
from  this  earth 

The  mind  of  spring  would  be 
a  study  in  serenity 

Ariwara  no  Narihira.  KKS  waka  #84 


If  womankind 
were  to  vanish  completely 
from  this  earth 

The  minds  of  men  like  me 
might  then  know  serenity 

Kyoka  by  Shokusanjin  fo  |il 


As  satire,  like  euphemism  that  in  time  becomes  what  it  covers,  often  ends 
up  taken  for  gospel  and,  itself,  satirized  or  parodied,  it  is  possible 
Narihira' s  waka  while  ostensibly  sympathizing  with  the  busy  host  of  a 
blossom-viewing  event,  was  also  intended  to  roast  generations  of  worry- 
wart  poets  by  hyperbolizing.  But  Shokusanjin  probably  imagined  that  this 
famously  handsome  man,  almost  as  promiscuous  as  his  namesake  in  The 
Tales  of  Ise,  like  many  men  who  conquer  and  leave  one  woman  after 
another,  blamed  his  itch  on  what  he  could  not  resist  scratching.  But,  this 
may  be  unfair;  Narihira  did  not  author  "his"  romantic  Tales  (which 
include  this  poem);  we  do  not  know  he  was  a  lifelong  Don  Juan,  only  that 
he  was  handsome. 


The  early- 17c  Fake  Ise  fnf^fp  nearly  beat  Shokusanjin  to  the  punch, 
changing  sakura/cherry  to  JE^p-  wife+child/ren  and  spring  to  now.  When 
being  on  the  wrong  side  of  a  political  intrigue  -  or  simply  related  to 
someone  who  was  -  got  entire  families  exiled  or  broken  up,  nobles  did 
worry  and  not  just  for  their  wives  the  Fake  Ise  parody  may  be  the  truth. 
But  Narihira,  say  my  respondents,  was  a  waka  poet.  His  blossoms  are 
blossoms.  The  translator,  no  scholar,  cannot  argue;  but  that  is  all  the  more 
reason  the  waka  and  its  kyoka  parodies  will  stay  right  here  in  the  chapter 
on  Spring.  Again,  a  senryu  for  comparison: 


hanaya  chirnran  de  jochii  o  kowagarase  yanagidaru  1777 
blossoms+emph  fall+excl  with(saying)  maid/s+acc  frighten 

"Blossoms,  you  know,  end  up  falling"  he  says,  scaring  his  servant. 

Blossom-as-woman  is  not  woman-as-blossom  and  the  poem  is  not  a  nice 
one,  but  the  idea  of  a  maid-servant  made  to  fear  a  metaphor  as  an 
allegorical  threat  in  this  exceptionally  translatable  senryu  borrowed  from 
Cherry  Blossom  Epiphany  -  the  poetry  &  philosophy  of  a  flowering  tree 
(2007)  is  irresistible.  More  haikai  from  that  same  book: 

±m$<  h  mm.  ^1633 

sanshun  no  yaku  ya  wasururu  osozakura  shigeyori 
Spring 's  last  act  -  someone  forgets  her  role,  a  slow  cherry! 


matsu  hito  ni  hitoharu  makeyo  osozakura  sogi  1420-1502 
So  how  about  an  extra  spring  for  all  who  wait,  late  cherry? 

hanaguruma  ushi  no  hikebaya  osozakura  tokugen 
Going  by  ox  cart,  no  wonder  that  they  are  late  cherry  blossoms1. 


totemo  naraba  shiwasu  ni  sakeyo  osozakura  chuko?  1666 
Then  why  not  just  wait  for  New  Year 's  Eve  -  late  cherry! 

hana  mo  ikuyo  haru  okurasan  osozakura  sogi  1420-1502 

would  blossoms,  too  late  cherries,  too 

forever  keep  their  spring,  how  many  generations  tried 

my  late-cherries?  to  slow  the  spring? 

With  haikai  full  of  comic  laments  for  the  leaving  Spring,  how  could  mad 
poets  outdo  that?  Here  is  one  way,  by  challenging  the  term  itself! 

mtifr  <  t  v  ^«      h  <£  nti  if  h  &  k  h  <  ti-rmfxftm  m  tirl 

kure  yuku  to  ieba  doyara  yokeredomo  nani  mo  kurezn  nigete  yuku  haru  uguisu  no  surie 
dusking  as  call-it  someway  OK-but  nothing  giving  fleeing  goes  spring  figfn  1785 

To  call  this  time  "the  twilight  of  the  Spring"  is  fine,  but  'leaves'? 
No,  she  leaves  us  nothing  -  I'd  say,  rather,  that  she  flees! 


English  cannot  pun  dusk,  or  season's  end,  into  giving  something  to  another 
(both  kure),  but,  luckily,  "leave"  means  either  departing  or  giving. 


yuku  haru  no  okage  de  natsu  mo  oiraku  da  okimiyage  naru  hana  no  shitaba  ka 


What  does  Spring  leave  us  when  all  her  flowers  fall  or  fade? 
Something  sweeter  than  ornament:  the  dark  summer  shade. 

Reading  the  last  poem  for  yet  another  time,  the  translator  could  not  help 
himself.  The  last  glossless  poem  is  his.  The  reading  is  not  even  close.  The 
original's  orthographic  punning  is  so  poor  even  Japanese  will  groan.  Yes, 
he  could  not  even  translate  himself.  And  last  but  not  least,  we  have 
mourning  for  having  to  part  from  the  beautiful  season. 


kokoro  ni  wa  tare  mo  omoedo  kawazu  hodo  haru  no  wakare  o  naku  mono  wa  nashi 
heart/s-in-as-for  anyone  thinks-but,  frog  extent  spring's  separation+acc  cry  one-as4  not 


Though  early  haikai  poked  fun  at  the  serious  lovers  in  waka,  as  haikai 
came  to  be  equally  serious  about  nature,  we  find  it  subject  to  satire. 
Shokusanjin,  Emperor  of  kyoka,  has  observed  something  true,  frogs  are 
very  loud  in  the  paddies  as  Spring  becomes  Summer.  In  Japanese,  frogs 
are  specified.  In  English,  the  frogs  {kawazu)  could  be  dispensed  with 
because  "croak,"  ravens  excepted,  is  frog-specific  {naku  means  both  "cry" 
and  "croak"  in  Japanese)  making  this  the  rare  case  of  a  gain  in  translation 
because  of  something  deliberately  lost. 


P  Haiku,  too?  The  "Late  Cherries"  chapter  of  the  3000-poem  Cherry  Blossom 
Epiphany  (another  of  your  translator's  740-page  monsters)  is  one  of  half-a-dozen 
chapters  particularly  full  of  old  haiku  that  might  be  called  kyoku.  It  seems  that  some 
themes  just  call  for  philosophical  wit  and  this  is  one  of  them.  While  haiku  has  not 
been  neglected  in  translation,  the  more  playful  side  of  haiku  has,  so  readers  just 
familiar  with  Mad  In  Translation  and  The  Woman  Without  a  Hole  might  not  realize 
that  Japanese  light  verse  is  not  only  found  in  kyoka  and  senryu  but  even  in  haikai  as 
it  is  in  waka.  In  respect  to  the  haiku,  let  me  provide  just  one  pair  of  snake-legs:  the 
ox  cart  was  typically  used  by  women  of  the  Court  and  women,  particularly  older 
women,  were  more  appreciative  of  the  late-blooming  cherries  as  the  weather  was 
balmier.  The  carts  were  gorgeous  and  the  pace  was  leisurely  and  full  of  delight. 


Leaves,  Indeed! 


In  our  hearts,  we  all  know  it  is  no  joke 
that  none  so  mourn  spring 's  passing 
as  they,  who  crying,  always  croak. 


Summer  means  Cuckoo,  Firefly,  Mosquitoes  & 


kibasami  o  hototogisu  mashi  natsu  kodachi  karisukashite  mo  kikan  to  zo  omou  hoshiya  mitsuj 
tree-shears+  cuckoo  is/are  summer-bosque  clipping-transparent  even  hear-would  think 


This  Tenmei  kyoka  follows  a  wish  to  level  mountains  to  see  more  of  the 
moon  in  a  wacky  waka  in  the  9c  Tales  of  Ise  and  for  a  gigantic  fan  6- 
uchiwa  to  keep  the  clouds  off  the  moon  illuminating  the  vast  plains  of 
Musashino  in  Getsudoken's  late- 1 7c  book-title  kyoka.  The  competition  to 
be  the  first  to  hear  the  cuckoo's  tidings  of  summer  was  almost  frantic. 
Ky oka-master  Shokusanjin  brings  the  beauty  of  waka  to  a  poem  that 
seems  to  suggest  that  if  Japan  had  notary  publics  they  might  have  been 
kept  employed  at  that  time  of  year: 


hototogisu  nakitsuru  kage  wa  mienedomo  kiita  shoko  wa  ariake  no  tsuki 

Though  I  did  not  see  the  bird  I  have  proof  it  was  a  cuckoo 
that  I  heard  in  heaven 's  stamp  -  this  perfect  matin  moon! 

Unfortunately,  half  the  wit  wants  in  translation.  The  "have=ar/"  in  "have 
(proof),"  morphs  effortlessly  into  ariake  =  dawn-moon.  The  full-moon-as- 
stamp  not  uncommonly  finished  off  a  running,  or  rather  flying  anserine 
epistle,  but  the  specification  of  the  matin  moon  is  brilliant  as  it  has  a  far 
more  chop/stamp-like  appearance  than  the  more  luminous  night  moon. 
The  next  combines  cuckoo  and  the  favorite  summer  "first"  of  Edo  haikai, 
the  fresh  bonito  loudly  hawked  through  town.  Kisshu's  poem  is  famous. 


izure  make  izure  katsu  o  to  hototogisu  tomo  ni  hatsune  no  tako  kikoyuru  karagoromo  kisshu 
which  loses  which  wins?  =  bonito  &  cuckoo  both  first  sound=price's  highly  sound  1739-1802 


Bring  me  shears! 
I'd  thin  the  summer  glen 
where  cuckoo  hides 


The  better  to  hear  him 
when  I  am  sitting  inside! 


Will  Bonito  beat 
Cuckoo  or  Cuckoo  defeat 
Bonito?  First,  I  fear 

Those  bids  and  calls  will  burst 
both  my  eardrums  &  my  purse! 


What  bids  &  calls! 
Will  bonito  beat  cuckoo 
&  break  my  purse? 

Or,  cuckoo  the  bonito 
&  my  eardrums  burst  first? 


After  a  singularly  uninspired  reading  ("Which  one  will  lose  / And  which 
one  will  be  the  winner?  /  The  bonito  or  the  cuckoo?  /  The  first  notes  of 
both  of  them  /  Sound  awfully  high. ")  Donald  Keene,  describing  the  two 
puns,  one  tricky  (win/beat=katsu+accusative  o  =^katsuo=bonito)  and  one 
easy  (sound=ne=price)  pronounced  this  a  prime  example  of  a  poem  that 
loses  everything  in  translation.  That  is  true.  If  only  he  were  less  keen  to 
put  down  a  genre  he  was  evidently  incapable  of  translating  by  statements 
such  as  "Puns  and  verbal  dexterity  were  also  valid  excuses  for  writing  a 
kyoka.  "  Would  Keene  say  that  about  English  light  poetry?  Are  rhyme  (a 
sort  of  pun)  and  the  ability  to  turn  a  word  "excuses"  for,  say,  Shake- 
speare's sonnets,  or,  for  that  matter  any  witty  poetry?  Here's  a  paraverse: 

Bonito  bidding  goes  so  high  it  drives  me  cuckoo,  that  I  know  - 
But  cuckoos  are  themselves  so  loud  they  're  driving  me  bonito! 

This  shows  that  if  we  drop  the  beating  and  losing  in  the  original  but  keep 
the  colloquial  tone,  introducing  a  pun  that  only  works  in  English  and  play 
with  our  idiom,  we  can  still  have  a  poem,  not  the  same  one,  perhaps,  but  if 
the  poet  read  English  .  .  .  Our  pleasure  writing  and  delight  reading  does 
not  come  from  the  wordplay  Keene  calls  an  "excuse"  for  poetry  or  the 
ideas  he  might  consider  a  reason  for  it,  but  from  their  union. 


kashimashi  ya  kono  sato  sugiyo  hototogisu  miyako  no  utsuke  ika  ni  matsuran  sokan 
noisy!  this  country/village  pass+emph.,  cuckoo,  capital's  idiots  how-much  waiting+emph. 


Cuckoo  were  thought  to  explode  into  song  when  the  monsoon  low  was 
followed  by  a  dry  high.  Migraine  sufferers  waited  to  hear  the  first  cuckoo 
for  relief.  Yet,  there  are  poems  such  as  the  one-man  haikai  link-verse 
above  by  Sokan  (1465-1553)  that  suggest  the  bird  itself  could  drive  you 
crazy.  Sokan  does  not  exaggerate.  Link-verse  master  Socho  (1448-1532) 
finally  snapped  after  cuckoo  kept  calling  day  and  night  well  into  fall  out  in 
the  hills  where  he  was  on  retreat,  "Hearing  thee,  nausea  comes  to  roost, 
hototogisu!  To  me,  thy  name  is  hedotogisu!  M  <  tz.  U \z if  t>  h  tl  If  f  5 
t  ±  ±  €irt  ^.-^V^^^D  tffrl  kiku  tabi  ni  mune  warokereba 

hototogisu  hedotogisu  to  koso  iu  bekarikere.  One  mora  changes  and  the 
cuckoo  became  a  puke=hedo  and=to  the  geezer=gisu.  Almost  300  years 
later,  Issa,  who  sometimes  complained  of  noisy  cuckoos  getting  on  his 


You  noisy  bird, 
fly  this  country  town! 
Go,  cuckoo,  go! 


What  a  ruckus! 
Hurry  it  up,  pass  through 
this  town,  cuckoo! 


The  airheads  in  Kyoto 
Await  your  first  sound. 


The  fools  in  the  Capital 
breathlessly  await  you. 


171 


nerves  found  a  way  to  put  that  excessive  energy  to  good  use  when,  in  a 
haiku,  he  asked  the  bird  to  drive  his  headache  out! 


hotaru  o  ba  atsumete  manabu  inishie  no  hito  o  hijiri  to  iu  wa  motomo  soho 
firefly/ies+emph  gathering  learn  ancient  people+acc.  sage(=firebutt)-as  say  natural 

Gathering  fireflies  to  study  with  -  no  wonder  we  the  men  of  old 
Call  "hijiri,  "  or,  "sages  of  the  burning  butt,  "  not  cold! 

The  kyoka  from  the  1730  anthology  %£WzM.i3%n  {kyoka  joint-readership?) 
is  a  delightful  just-so  etymology  of  H  hijiri,  a  saint  or  sage:  fir e=hi  'X  +  ^ 
=jiri=ass.  Snow  was  piled  up  by  the  window  in  the  winter  and  fireflies 
gathered  in  the  summer  by  the  diligent  reader  of  old  too  poor  to  afford 
candles  or  lamp  oil.  Such  was  the  stuff  of  legend,  the  heroic  scholar,  or 
scholar-to-be  of  ancient  China,  inherited  by  the  entire  Sinosphere.  Still, 
one  finds  more  use  of  fireflies  to  see  the  face  of  a  lover  or  light  the  way  to 
her  house  than  for  book  learning  in  romantic  Japan  of  old  and  most  firefly 
waka  are  love-poems.  Indeed,  all  but  the  above  firefly  poems  in  this  book 
almost  ended  up  in  the  chapter  on  Love. 

sakasama  ni  koi  mo  naru  yo  no  hotaru  kana  mune  ni  wa  moete  shiri  zo  kogaruru  1532 
reversed  love+emph  becomes  world's  fireflies!/?/:  breast-in-as-for  smoldering  butt+emph  burned 

Left  Right 

Even  love  is  Torches,  lamps, 

upside  down  in  this  we  hold  out  in  front, 

firefly  world:  to  walk  w/out  fear 

The  breast  is  inflamed  So  what's  with  fireflies, 

But  the  ass  gets  burnt.  Why  light  up  the  rear? 

hito  noyuku  mae  wa  chochin  taimatsu  ya  hotaru  wa  shiri  o  na  to  tereruran 
person  goes  before-as-for  lantern,  torch  and/:  firefly-as-for  butt  why(?)  shines?/! 

The  16c  Gyokuginshu  collection  has  two  poems  per  subject,  a  judgment 
and  comments.  Usually  one  is  favored,  but  these  by  fXH  h&  lil^fiSf  that 
Monk  Junpo  (PI^^PIr]  who,  for  all  I  know,  may  have  written  them,  too) 
judged  equal,  as  both  put  the  cart  before  the  horse  Mti^MS^f^felpIf1!-  in 
one  way  or  another.  A  later  kyoka,  only  alluding  to  the  contrary-to-nature 
vector  of  the  burning,  improves  the  "left"  poem  even  further: 


wakashu  o  omohi  no  tama  ka  hotarubi  no  mune  wa  kogare  de/te?  shiri  zo  kogaruru  nyuan 
young-crowd=gay+longing  soul/s?  firefly-fire's  breast-as4  burns-w/  butt+emph  chars  ~  £EI#C  HUT 


Could  those  souls 
be  born  of passion  for  a  gay? 
Behold  the  firefly 

Breasts  may  burn,  but,  hey, 
The  butt  is  what  gets  fried! 


Could  those  souls 
be  longing  of  a  gay  fashion? 
Behold  the  firefly 

Breasts  may  burn  from  passion, 
But  when  the  ass  burns  you  cry 


Could  those  souls 
be  longing  for  gay  boys? 

Firefly  passion 

Burning  in  the  breast  annoys 
But  the  buttocks  are  consumed! 


Izumi  Shikibu's  (frJ^^pfS  c970-1030)  waka,  in  loose  translation  as  the 
reader  may  easily  find  dozens  of  translations  for  comparison,  "Longing 
for  him,  even  fireflies  on  the  moor  seemed  to  be  /  sparks  of  burning 
passion,  embers  of  my  soul,  of  me!"  (t,coS^tf^^^tt?^5#J;  9  0  0 
mono  omoeba  sawa  no  hotaru  mo  ...  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  ever 
written.  As  one  of  the  hundred  used  in  card  games,  it  was  so  well  known 
chances  are  the  above  kyoka  are  inspired  by  it  or  parodies  of  it.  The 
"those"  prefacing  "souls"  reflects  the  extent  to  which  that  idea  was  known, 
but,  without  the  longing=fire  pun,  nothing  can  prevent  loss  in  translation. 

ake  yukeba  moyuru  hotaru  mo  kage  kiete  kemuri  o  mizu  ni  nokosu  narikeri  kita-in 
dawning/lightening  proceed-when  burning  fireflies'  form/light  vanished 
smoke+acc.  water-in/on  remain  is+emphatic-finality  d.1202 


With  the  dawn,  all  the  burning  fireflies  were  gone 
and  only  their  smoke  remains  on  the  water. 


This  is  a  bona  fide  waka  so  beautiful  any  translation  will  do  and  yet  the 
metaphor  so  bold  that  it  could  have  been  devised  by  a  Tenmei  era  kyoka 
poet  or  a  20c  tanka  poet.  And  there  are  more  such: 

inishie  no  nomori  no  kagami  ato  taete  tobuhi  wayowa  no  hotaru  narikeri  monk  jakuren  %i 
ancient  field-guards'  sight/reflction  aftr  dying/fadng  flyng-fires-as-4  late-night  fireflies  are!  d.1203 

The  mirrored  souls  of  the  guardians  of  old  fade  before  my  eyes; 
Our  signal-lights  in  the  wee  hours  of  the  night .  .  .  are  fireflies. 


173 


In  the  7c,  a  system  of  smoke  signals  by  day  and  fire  by  night  from  a  web 
of  hilltop,  or  otherwise  raised,  platforms  was  started  to  guard  against 
invasion  by  sea.  It  did  not  last  a  hundred  years  in  most  parts,  but  the  name 
"flying-fire"  for  the  stations  and  the  guards  captured  the  romantic 
imagination.  (Oddly,  stepping  stones  in  gardens,  also  "fly/leaping  (rocks),"  are 
tobi-ishi,  not  tobu-.).  Here  is  another  waka  pushing  the  envelope: 

ko  no  mayori  miyuru  wa  tani  no  hotaru  ka  mo  isari  ni  ama  no  umi  eyuku  ka  mo  kisen  1313 
trees-between-from  appear-as-4  valley's  ffs  maybe,  lights-as  fisherfolks'  sea-to  going  maybe 

Are  those  fireflies  down  in  the  vale  we  spy  through  the  trees 
taking  their  light  to  the  sea  to  help  the  fisherfolk,  maybe? 

What  makes  this  delightful  waka  doubly  kyoka?  First,  tiny  glowing  bug- 
butts  helping  out  night-fishermen  is  a  crazy  idea.  Second,  it  plays  in  a 
good-humored  way  -  facetious  sarcasm?  -  with  a  Tales  of  Ise  poem  where 
the  anti-hero's  visit  to  a  seaside  inn  gave  rise  to  a  rustic  poem  conflating 
fireflies,  stars  in  the  river  and  distant  fishing  fires.  Jakuren,  a  century 
earlier,  made  one  of  those  untranslatable  quicksilver  waka  Waley  lamented, 
the  word-order  of  which  must  be  juggled  to  keep  the  modification  and  the 
modified  fireflies  together,  though  both  may  apply  to  those  fires. 

7tco£p^#  ^<  ^b^Z^    foCUx&S  t3fc<5te^<9  (D  h£  <Z)V^  £  19  t> 

tanomu  beki  yukue  to  miru  zo  /  awarenaru  hotaru  bakari  no  ama  no  isaribi  jakuren  d.1203 
desirable(from  faith)  destination  as  see+emph.!  beautiful/sad  ff-amount's  fisherfolk's  lights 

No  larger  they  than  fireflies  so  beautiful  and  sad  that  show 
The  way  all  of  us  must  go  .  .  .  The  fires  of  the  fisherfolk. 

While  no  kyoka,  this  allusive  variation  is  higher  poetry  than  the  Ise 
"original"  and  shows  that  it  is  wrong  to  assume  that  derivative  poems  are 
less  than  what  they  take-off  from.  I.e.,  ruling  out  kyoka  as  literature  for 
not  having  its  own  material,  as  some  critics  do,  is  wrong.  And,  "the  way 
all  of  us  must  go"  is  the  darkness  so  beautifully  expressed  by  Izumi 
Shikibu's  waka  the  translator  first  learned  of  when  the  gracious  and 
learned  Liza  Dalby  informed  him  that  an  old  haiku  about  sea  cucumbers 
taken  from  the  dark  into  the  dark  (our  bellies)  was  not  invented  ex  nihilis. 

itazura  ni  mi  o  takitsuru  hotaru  kana  nori  no  tame  to  wa  omowazaru-ran  nakatsukasa  ^Jf. 
frivolously  body+acc  burn-doing  firefly/ies!/?/:  (holy)law-for-as-for  think-not!!! 

'Shadows  of  the  Divine '  you  say?  (in  reply  to  Jonathon  Edwards) 

The  fireflies  light  up  their  bodies  for  the  hell  of  it,  right? 
I  doubt  they  illuminate  anything  but  the  night! 


If  the  title  mystifies  you,  by  all  means,  check  out  Jonathon  Edward's  (yes, 
the  same  preacher  of  flames  of  hell  fame)  book.  You  will  be  pleasantly 
surprised.  The  attitude  of  some  Occidental  Christians  who  found  meaning 
in  Nature  shares  something  with  Japanese  poets.  The  out-and-out  doubt 
expressed  here  may  be  in  a  waka  anthology  but  seems  a  kyoka  for  being 
brutally  honest. 

natsumushi  wa  urayamashiku  ya  omouran  onoga  omoi  ni  moenu  hotaru  o  monk  noin 
moths-as-for  enviously  think-would:  self  s  longing/flame-in  burn-not  fireflies  d.1050? 

How  luna  moths  must  envy  lightning  bugs  who  are  not  burnt, 
But  burn  alive  from  the  fire  of  love  within  their  own  hearts! 


The  summer  bugs  must  be  envious  as  hell  at  those  fireflies, 
Who,  burning  from  within,  turn  their  yearning  into  light. 

How  the  Moths  must  with  envy  burn  to  see  the  Fireflies 
Ignite  themselves  from  within,  whenever  they  desire! 

To  luna  moths,  nothing  is  more  envious  than  a  firefly, 
Who  can  himself  annihilate  in  the  flames  of  his  desire! 

How  the  Moth  must  burn  with  envy  for  the  Firefly; 
Lit  up  by  his  own  passion  he  need  not  fly  to  fry! 

Again,  this  came  from  a  collection  of  waka.  Yet,  there  is  something  about 
the  contrast  of  two  burning  bugs  that  seems  mad. 


hito  o  ami  e  iretayo  nam  kaya  no  uchi  wa  akagai  mo  ari  tako  mo  arikeri  teiryu  1654-1735 
people+acc  net/s-to  put-in  like  is  mosquito-net's/s'-within-as-for  red-shell  too  is/are  octopus  too  is/are 

Mosquito  nets  make  all  men  fish  and  each  a  different  dish: 
Some  boast  red  ark  shells  and  others  cherished  devilfish! 

Japanese  knew  the  red  shell,  commonly  translated  "ark  shell,"  meant  a 
mature  woman's  private  part  (from  its  uncanny  resemblance  to  the  vulva)  and 
the  octopus  {devilfish  is  my  deliberate  mistranslation),  tako,  was  short  for 
"octopus  pot,"  tako-tsubo,  a  rare  treat  best  translated  as  octopussy,  i.e.,  a 
vagina  that  clings  like  an  octopus  to  the  hand  of  one  who  reaches  in  for  it, 
and/or  its  owner.  The  kyoka  improves  by  knowing  the  muggy  summer 
nights  in  Japan.  (More  sea  life  in  Octopussy,  Dry  Kidney  &  Blue  Spots  2007). 


ka  wa  fuji  no  yama  hodo  Ski  urayakoya  naranu  omoi  no  moyuru  okakuzu  teiryu 
'squitoes-as-4  fuji  mtn/s  amount  many  backstreet  small-flat  become-not  longing's  burning  sawdust 


Using  much  to  describe  many,  i.e.  a  quality  with  gross  size,  reverses  the 
practice  common  in  traditional  Japanese  poetry  of  describing  intense 
longing  in  terms  of  numerous  or  rather  countless  waves  or  grains  of  sand. 
Playing  with  such  rhetoric  in  the  first  half  of  the  poem  anticipates  longing 
in  the  second,  but  is  also  confusing,  for  Fuji  could  also  be  read  as  Fujis. 
Climbing  Fuji  as  a  spiritual  exercise  was  common  at  this  time  and  (small- 
scale)  model  Fujis  were  found  in  scores  of  cities  around  Japan;  so  the 
reference  to  the  number  of  Fujis  might  be  a  novel  sort  of  hyperbole  where 
not  the  target  of  the  hyperbole  but  the  hyperbole  itself  is  hyperbolic  (as 
many  Fuji  models  as  mosquitoes!?).  The  7-7  ku  take  the  love-as-burning 
trope,  usually  likened  to  burning-off  salt  for  the  bitter  tear  connection,  and 
combines  it  with  saw-dust,  a  cheap  smudge.  The  naranu  "un-fulfilled" 
pegged  on  the  "longing/love"  puns  as  "hum-not,"  making  readers  imagine 
the  noise  made  by  the  mosquitoes  while  it  disclaims  what  comes  before  it 
as  the  true  message  of  the  poem  in  true  classic  style.  Much  was  lost  in 
translation,  but  the  second  reading,  with  stung  eyes  added,  worked  so  well 
the  translator  gave  up  an  alternate  that  started,  "Had  we  but  smudge 
enough  and  wine,  mosquitoes,  lady,  would  be  fine  .  .  ."  despite  the 
attraction  of  a  saw-dust  and  lust  that  promised  a  marvelous  end. 


noki  ni  kite  naku  ne  yakamashi  naga  sao  de  chodo  utsu  semi  uchigorosekashi  getsudoken 
eaves-to  coming  singing  sound  noisy  long  pole-w/  whack  cicada  hitting-kill-would 

It  came  to  the  eaves,  crying  in  a  voice  so  shrill  I  took  a  long  stick 
And  whacking  the  short-lived  cicada  made  its  life  shorter  still 

It  came  to  the  eaves  and  cried  up  a  storm  until,  growing  deaf 
I  picked  up  a  stick  and  beat  that  damn  cicada  to  death 

While  the  pun  on  the  verb  "hit, "  utsu  playing  with  vanity  or  mortality  + 
semi  (cicada)  is  good  enough  to  justify  a  poem,  I  believe,  it  is  a  true  report 
as  a  cicada  up  close  is  so  damn  shrill,  I  too  have  thought,  Kill!  Kill!  Kill! 


Back-alley  shacks 
with  mosquitoes  abundant 
as  Mount  Fujis 


No  back-alley  flat 
with  mosquitoes  as  thick 
as  Fuji  is  high, 


Burning  saw-dust  -  what  a  joke: 
Hopeless  love  goes  up  in  smoke! 


Love 's  labor  lost,  I  burn  within 
Smudge  enough  to  sting  my  eyes! 


176 


While  the  author  made  no  promise  to  skip  no  significant  seasonal  theme, 
the  experienced  reader  of  Japanese  poetry  may  find  something  oddly 
lacking  from  the  summer,  heat.  Odd  because  the  subject  inspires  more 
hyperbole  than  any  other  natural  phenomenon  so  we  might  expect  poets 
who  loved  to  exaggerate  and  compete  to  be  outlandish  would  have  made 
so  many  such  poems  that  they  would  have  forced  their  way  into  this 
chapter.  But  the  truth  is  this.  There  are  surprisingly  few.  Probably,  that  is 
because  by  the  time  kyoka  were  written  in  a  major  way  by  the  lower- 
ranking  samurai  and  others  who  experienced  climatic  extremes  (nobles 
summered  on  sea-side  or  in  mountain  resorts),  haikai  had  already  worked 
the  lode  so  thoroughly  -  you  may  find  fifty  or  a  hundred  examples  one 
after  another  translated  by  Blyth  -  few  if  any  nuggets  were  left.  Or,  even  if 
more  interesting  hyperbole  might  have  been  invented,  awareness  of 
coming  later  might  have  had  a  psychological  affect  on  the  poets.  Who 
knows  if  trope  across  genres  of  literature  is  not  subject  to  an  unwritten  law 
similar  to  the  competitive  exclusion  found  in  biology. 

yomu  uia  o  kiku  hito  goto  ni  hiyasarete  hiya-ase  kakeba  koko  zo  noryo  getsudoken 
read  song/pom+acc  hear  peple-each-by  kid=chill=ed  cold-sweatng  here+emp  keep-cool 

On  being  told  by  Naoshige  that  he  was  having  trouble  writing  a  kyoka 
on  the  theme  of  keeping  cool  [in  mid-summer  heat],  I  sent  him  this: 

Read  a  bad  poem  &  ridiculed  by  all,  suffer  to  become  a  clown; 
The  cold  sweat  upon  your  skin  will  surely  cool  you  down! 

Whenever  I  read  they  laugh  at  my  poems  and  hating  defeat 
Cold  sweat  visits  me  and  then  and  there  I  beat  the  heat! 


Each  time  I  read  a  poem  they  never  fail  to  laugh  at  me 
And  with  my  own  cold  sweat  I  beat  the  heat  easily! 

As  the  reverse  side  to  summer  heat,  cooling  down,  or  "storing  the  cool"  Mi 
W.  is  also  under-represented  in  kyoka  compared  to  haikai,  except  for  ghost 
stories,  which  Tenmei  kyoka  filled  books  with,  as  mentioned  in  the  Mad 
Fantasy  chapter,  are  part  of  the  greater  theme  of  cooling-off  as  they  made 
one  shiver  (and  because  they  were  told  at  night  when  it  cooled  down,  but 
not  much).  The  above  poem  by  Getsudoken  is  the  exception  and  one  of 
the  best  comic  self-denigration  or  self-deprecatory  poems  ever  written.  In 
fact,  it  is  so  good  that  your  translator  believes  it  makes  up  for  the  short- 
comings of  this  chapter. 


Mad  Snake  Fall:  Star  Lovers,  Bugs  &  Chestnuts 


amanogawa  hagoromo  kitara  tobikoen  ge  ni  soragoto  zo  kasasagi  no  hashi  teitoku  1571-1 653 
heaven's  river  feather-robe  worn-if  flying-cross-would  really  sky-thing/fiction+emph  magpie-bridge 


This  idea-first  kyoka  by  the  infamous  nominalist  Teitoku  takes  a  general 
mythical  concept  -  the  hagoromo  or  feathered  robes  worn  by  sky-dwellers, 
mostly  beautiful  maidens  -  to  challenge  a  particular  one  -  the  birds  were 
supposed  to  make  a  bridge  for  the  cowherd  to  cross  to  his  weaver  on  this 
one  night  of  love  per  year  on  this  Seventh  Night  of  the  Seventh  Month,  the 
first  of  Fall,  using  the  phrase  "is  really  a  tall-tale,"  where  the  word  he  uses 
for  tall-tale  (one  of  many  in  Japanese)  soragoto,  literally  means  "sky-thing." 
With  many  versions  of  this  tale  from  China  (where,  unlike  Japan,  the  weaver 
rather  than  the  herder  travels  across  the  Milky  Way),  contradictions  abound. 
When  it  rained  on  this  night,  oar-splash  from  the  herder's  boat  was  the 
common  metaphor.  So  how  does  Shokusanjin  approach  this? 

tanabata  o  omoeba  toki  amerika  no  amasonen  no  koto  ni  ya  ari  ken 
seventh-eve+acc  think-when  america's  amazon's  thing  re.!+hypoth. 

When  I  think  about  this  seventh  night,  I  cannot  help 
Seeing  them  in  America,  crossing  the  Amasonen! 

The  two  Stars,  I  imagine  them  far  off  -  in  America; 
Ama-no-kawa,  Heaven 's  River  as  the  Ama-zone! 

This  is  less  comic  than  remarkable.  Who  would  guess  the  Japanese,  after 
200  years  of  isolation,  were  so  conversant  with  the  New  World!  The 
Milky  Way  is  "heaven's  river"  in  the  Sinosphere;  Amerika  and  Amasonen 
include  two  Japanese  pronunciations  of  "heaven,"  ame  and  ama.  Amaso- 
nen, of  North  European  derivation,  has  no  long  "6."  Was  it  coined  for  the 
sonen  "thoughts,"  or  a  loving  and  a  loose  pun  (rare  in  Japanese)  on 
the  reification  of  love-me-slender-love-me-long  thread  of  lasting  romance, 
namely,  thin  white  noodles  called  somen  eaten  on  that  day?  Over  fifty 
years  before,  Osaka's  great  kyoka  master,  Teiryu  (1654-1735)  introduced 


©  Star-crossed  Logic  © 


The  Milky  Way 
is  easily  crossed,  I  bet 
in  a  feather  robe 


Heaven 's  River 
Don 't  they  all  have  wings 
to  get  across  it? 


Magpie  bridges  in  the  sky? 
How  silly  can  you  get! 


Feather  bridges?  My,  my, 
That  is  magpie  in  the  sky! 


"noodles  thinner  than  a  spider's  thread"  for  this  night  with  a  poem 
combining  the  folk  belief  of  the  spider  as  omen  of  a  lover's  visit  often 
found  in  waka  with  the  long-and-thin  love  idea: 

hikoboshi  no  kubeki  yoi  nari  sasagani  no  kumo  no  ito  yori  hosoki  somen  teiryu 
herderstar's  come-should  eve  becoming  spider's  thread-more -than  thin  noodles 

The  herder  star  will  come  tonight  -  only  a  spider  could  spin 
noodles  as  thin  as  these  prepared  while  she  waits  for  him. 

The  original  breaks  after  the  5-7  and  does  not  spell-out  so  much.  Milky 
Way  and  spider  thread  were  most  beautifully  strung  together  by  Saigyo: 

^<D)\\MtlX<  tiZm*  5  lttl©fc^[i5  £  £^<Z)l^  MfTd.1190 
amanokawa  nagarete  kudaru  ame  o  ukete  tama  no  ami  haru  sasagani  no  ito  saigyo 
heaven's  rivr  flowng  falls  rain+acc  catchng  drop/gem=soul-net  stretchng  spider's'  thread 

The  thread  of  the  spider  pitching  the  net  of pearls 
that  caught  the  rain  spilt  from  the  flow  of  the  river  of  heaven. 

The  galaxy  flowing  falls  as  rain,  the  drops  of  which  caught, 
a  pearly  net  is  pitched  of  spider  thread. 

A  perfect  'Japanese-style'  plotless  poem,  "The  House  that  Jack  Built" 
backward  without  "This  is-  "  !  The  first  reading  follows  the  original  flow 
with  only  "thin"  and  two  "thats"  added,  the  second  the  original  order 
from  Milky  Way  to  thread.  Hopeless.  Would  the  following  be  better? 

Rain  drops  overflowing  from  the  Milky  Way,  Spider  catches, 
until  her  web  is  so  bejeweled,  Gaien  beauty  heaven  matches. 

From  the  Sky-river  rain-drops  fall:  See  Arachne  spread 
a  web  of  stars  to  prove  even  heaven  hangs  by  a  thread. 

But  is  that  a  translation?  In  the  Japanese,  Saigyo' s  simpler  poem  is  fine  as 
is.  Nothing  is  added  out  of  orientalism  or  bias  for  the  ornate,  but  because 
otherwise  the  poem  dies  in  translation.  If  you  can  keep  it  simple  and  alive, 
please  send  me  your  reading.  Now,  to  get  back  to  the  noodles  - 

kurogami  mo  itsu  ka  somen  toshidoshi  no  tanabata  no  utayomu  to  seshi  ma  ni  shokusanjin 
~  The  Woman  in  Charge  of  the  Palace  Weaving  Festival  ~ 

Year  after  year,  when  did  her  black  locks  turn  somen  white, 
As  she  did  her  duty  reading  poems  about  the  seventh  night? 


179 


This  poem  by  Shokusanjin  could  be  a  waka  or  a  tanka.  Like  Teiryu's 
somen  noodle  poem  it  has  a  delicacy  and  apparent  affection  uncommon  in 
kyoka  which  is  only  enhanced  by  a  fine  pun  on  noodles=some«  turning 
into  the  verb  for  "to  dye"  or  "to  color"  that  we  had  to  skip!  Shokusanjin 
also  wrote  what  may  be  the  most  comic  somen  kyoka  of  all  (-t^7  ^  "9 
Ttefr^Tc^^fcA/  X>^MM(D  t£&%fc>frtl%  tanabata  mo 

susurite  wa  naki-tamauran  hiyasdmen  no  nagaki  wakare  o.).  How  sad  this 
"cold  noodle  goodbye"  is  utterly  untranslatable  as  neither  sobbing  and 
slurping  nor  long  thin  noodles  and  separation  can  be  equated  in  English! 
Shokusanjin  also  wrote  the  second  most  droll  of  all  Star  Festival  kyoka. 

£m.<Dxy<  x^cD^tztix  <q  ^(Dh^<o  r^es/c^  urn  miumn 

hikoboshi  no  hiku  teu  (to  iu)  ushi  no  yodare  yori  kono  chigiri  koso  nagatarashikeri  shokusanjin 
herder  star  pulling  said  ox's/oxen's  drool-from  this  vow  especially  long-has-been+emph.  d.  1 823 


Long  kept  -  longer 
by  far  than  the  slobber 
of  the  Oxen  led 

by  our  Cowboy  Star  - 
Their  Wedding  Vows  &  bed. 


No  bed  is  specified  but  chigiri  does  imply  sex.  But,  why  "second  most 
droll?"  See  the  first,  by  late- 17c  kyoka  master  Getsudoken: 

t><  5  L-<D#^£/U£o&C£  h  te^O^te^t forfeit  MM$t 
hiku-ushi  no  hanage  ni  tonbo  tsunagu  to  mo  negai  no  ito  wa  kakenu  futa-michi 
pulling-cow  (herder  star)'s  nstrl-hair-to  drgnfly  tie  evn  wshng-thread-as4  hang-not  forkd-rd 


On  Hanging  One 's  Wish  Out  for  the  Stars 

Though  I  could  tie  a  dragonfly  to  a  hair  in  the  Cowherd's  nose, 
My  desires  are  a  wishbone:  Must  I  split  and  not  keep  both? 

Though  I  could  tie  a  dragonfly  to  a  hair  in  the  Cowherd's  nose, 
Like  split-ends,  the  thread  of  my  desire,  forking,  goes  nowhere! 

Plucking  the  nose-hair  of  a  big  fast  animal  was  idiomatic  for  dexterity. 
Tying  a  dragonfly  to  the  same  of  a  Star,  Hikoboshi,  is  novel.  Wishes 
aimed  at  the  Stars  were  written  on  colored  paper  and  hung  by  thread  from 
green  branches.  The  poet  apparently  wants  more  than  one  thing.  A  boy 
and  a  girl?  His  wife  and  a  courtesan?  Does  kakenu  pun  on  "can't  write"? 
Was  he  afraid  of  being  read?  Was  there  a  "one  wish"  rule?  Every  year, 
Getsudoken  got  off  on  (pardon  the  slang,  but  Getsudoken  asks  for  it)  the 
Tanabata  festival.  Here  is  his  fine  physical  foil  to  sentimental  waka: 


chiyo  o  hitoyo  yumiya  teppo  yoi  onaka  daite  nete  yori  soko  ga  hoshi  hoshi 
thousand-nights+acc  one-night  bow-arrow  gun  good  relation 
hugging  sleeping  rather  than  there/it-the  want  want(star  x2) 

A  Thousand  Nights  compressed  in  One, 
they,  who  are  close  as  crossbow  &  gun: 
no  bundling  visit  for  them,  but  it!  -  It 
is  what  they  want  to  sta+ star-start! 

Getsudoken's  original  depends  on  star=hoshi=want,  a  homophone,  and 
"there,"  soko,  being  vernacular  idiom  for  it,  raw  sex.  It  also  has  a  rough, 
primal  quality  lacking  in  the  more  sophisticated  Tenmei  kyoka.  This  is  not 
to  say  Tenmei  kyoka  avoided  the  issue.  Here  is  a  hyperlogical  take  on  it: 

X>b&%\^&tm6Mmzte^&tthtmMlZt££tlfo  1785 
hitoyo  o  ba  momoyo  to  chigiru  orihime  ni  naze  okotachi  ga  deki  wa  nasarenu  sosen 
1-nght+emph  100/many  nght  as  vow/tryst  weavng-princss-to  y  childrn  have-as4  do-not? 

With  one  fall  night  worth  a  hundred,  I  just  do  not  get  why 
the  Weaver's  little  children  do  not  completely  fill  the  sky! 

There  is  at  least  one  waka  (probably  in  the  Manyoshu)  wondering  why 
there  are  no  offspring  unless  it  be  star-dust  (hoshikuzu).  The  high  value  of 
a  fall  night  was  made  in  China,  but  most  Japanese  know  it  from  #22  of 
The  Tales  of  Ise.  To  wit:  One  night  in  fall  may  be  a  thousand  of  the  other 
kind  /  but  our  love  would  not  jade  though  we  met  eight-thousand  times!  %k 
(Dj%.(D=f-^%:— ^dft-f  h^X  A'f^LStf  ^fc<  ^(Dhbts  aki  no  yo  no 
chiyo  o  .  .  .  and  response:  Though  one  night  may  be  a  thousand,  when  it's 
fall,  /  we  still  have  more  to  say  when  the  rooster  crows  at  dawn.  Sosen 's 
kyoka  equating  the  numerically  expressed  value  of  a  Fall  night  with  ample 
opportunity  for  procreation  demonstrates  the  extra  step  taken  by  Tenmei 
kyoka.  And  speaking  of  numbers,  the  festival  is  in  the  summer  now, 
because  the  date  7/7  was  kept  despite  the  change  to  the  Gregorian  calendar. 

£z>L£(DmknLhx%m&mx<^L^m(D-t> t 

sabishisa  no  tane  to  wa  shira  de  akikaze  o  uete  kuyashiki  ogi  no  hitomoto  muan 
lonelinss's  seed/s/cause  knowng-not,  autmn-wnd/s  plantd,  regret  Miscanth.  s.  1  clump 

Miscanthus  sacchariflorus:  Planting  the  Seeds  of  It 

Had  I  known  they  would  bear  the  lonely  winds  of  fall, 
This  clump  of  reeds  would  not  be  growing  here  at  all! 


This  kyoka  plays  with  an  old  waka  regretting  having  planted  a  cherry 
tree  as  it  taught  women  inconstancy  by  scattering  its  petals  so  quickly. 


iro/na  o  mede  oreru  bakari  zo  ominaeshi  ware  ochi  ni  ki  to  hito  ni  kataru  na  henjo  9c 
color  celebrating  break  only+exclam.  maidenflower  I  fell-for  came/happened  people-to  tell-not 


/  only  plucked  you 
to  keep  your  lovely  bloom, 
oh,  maiden  flower, 


Your  charming  name! 
I  could  not  help  but  make  you 
my  maiden  flower  - 


Don 't  you  go  telling  the  world 
how  I  fell  from  my  high  horse! 


So  please  tell  not  a  soul, 
It  was  beyond  my  power! 


One  of  the  most  famous  waka  not  among  the  100  Poet  One  Poem 
selection.  Indeed,  this  may  be  more  famous  than  almost  all  of  them.  A 
preface  says  the  monk,  later  arch-bishop,  Henjo  (816-890)  spotted  the 
flowers  on  horseback  and  reaching  down  to  pluck,  fell  and  right  then  and 
there  (fushinagara),  composed  the  poem.  The  contradiction  between  his 
request  and  behavior  -  telling  the  whole  world  by  broadcasting  his  poem  - 
is  deliciously  mad.  Another  Maiden  Flower  poem,  equally  interesting  but 
structurally  too  complex  to  become  famous  was  composed  by  the  editor  of 
the  Kokinshu  Ki  no  Tsurayuki. 


ogura  yama  mine  tachinarashi  naku  shika  no  he  ni  ken  aki  o  shiru  hito  zo  naki  kks  439 
ogura  mt.  peak  standing  used-to=level  calling  deer's/s'  passed+emph  autumn+acc  know  person+emph  not 


This  was  in  the  anthology's  "thing-name"  section.  As  the  underlined 
letters  show,  the  original  is  an  anagram.  Englishing  maiden  flower  would 
take  twelve  lines  and  too  much  time  for  this  translator,  who  also  regrets 
his  inability  to  match  the  pun  narashi  =  used  to  =  leveling  and  the  more 
important  and  hitherto  unnoticed  pun  found  in  the  last  ten  syllabets:  ~  aki 
o  shiru  hito  zo  naki,  in  addition  to  meaning  "there  is  no  one  who  knows 
the  autumn/s  ~  ,"  sounds  like  "there  is  no  one  who  ever  wearies  of  (them, 
i.e.,  maiden  flowers)!"  The  rest  of  the  poem,  punfully  hyperbolizing 
unrelenting  male  interest  as  topography-changing  rut,  is  but  an  elaborate 
pillow  for  that  concluding  pun  to  lie  its  light  head  on.  This  is  as  good  a 
mad  poem  as  any  late- 18c  kyoka.  It  should  be  famous  for  its  complex  and 
beautiful  layers  of  meaning.  Because  of  the  tendency  to  belittle  cleverness 
on  the  part  of  Japanese  literary  critics,  such  wit  may  be  lost  to  the  broader 
body  of  poem-tasters,  as  finding  it  would  only  hurt  the  poet's  reputation. 


Could  he  wear  down 
Mt  Ogura?  Such  pacing  and 
bellowing  above, 


Could  they  wear  down 
Mt  Ogura?  Such  pacing  and 
bellowing  above, 


Who  knows  how  many  falls 
that  buck  has  cried  for  love! 


Who  knows  how  many  falls 
those  stags  have  cried  for  love! 


182 


fukimakuru  susono  no  kaze  ni  sennin  mo  otsuru  bakari  no  shiro-haginohana  kabe  no  nakanuri  1785 
blow-about/circling  hem-field's  wind-in/by  saint/wizard  even  fall-amount  white-clover=calve/s=bloom 

When  the  wind  blows  around  the  meadow  hem,  look  out  below! 
That  saint  might  fall  again  to  see  clover=calves  so  whitely  glow. 

On  seeing  the  white  thigh  of  a  laundress,  a  saintly  sage  was  said  to  have 
fallen  off  his  cloud  and  into  a  river  much  like  early  astronauts  splashing 
down  into  the  sea.  Clover  long  stood  or,  rather,  bloomed  for  an  aged 
beauty.  Even  saintly  Basho  could  not  resist  composing  a  haiku  for  old 
harlots  at  'Clover  Inn.'  They  were  most  appreciated  when  the  fall  wind, 
pushed  back  the  foliage  above,  revealing  more  blossoms  below  as  it 
scattered  the  dew.  The  homophony  of  clover  and  calf,  both  hagi  are  taken 
advantage  of  in  this  poem.  If  Japanese  were  breast-lovers  and  the  clover  a 
pear,  such  might  be  Englished,  but  as  is  .  .  .  But,  wait,  -  how  about  this? 

When  wind  blows  up  sweet  Clover 's  skirt  around  the  meadow  hem, 
Her  bloomers  so  white  just  might  drop  an  old  sage  from  heaven! 

"Bloomers"  and  the  Proper  Name  may  not  be  in  the  original,  but  they  do 
bring  us  closer  to  the  right  mood.  Besides,  the  original  less  obviously 
differs  from  both  readings  in  not  being  a  narrative  but  a  typical  plotless 
"Japanese  style"  string  of  modification  (~  blah  blah  clover,  then  it's  over). 
Because  the  different  syntax  forbids  reproduction  of  the  flow  without 
hyphenating  the  whole  poem,  killing  it  with  passive  constructions,  or 
putting  the  subject  first  rather  than  last,  translators  almost  invariably 
rewrite  such  plotless  modification  as  a  story.  Another  such: 

sato  no  ko  ni  oikakerarete  igakuri  no  chi  o  nigemawam  kaze  no  hageshisa  akera  kanko  d.  1 800 
coun1ry-ki(i/s-by-chased-spikeayburred-chestnut's-earth+acc-flee-circling-wind's  strength 

The  strength  of  the  wind  where  prickly  chestnuts  fly  on  the  ground 
beyond  the  reach  of  the  village  urchins  chasing  them  around. 

This  time,  the  flow  of  the  original  was  kept  intact  at  the  cost  of  the  order 
that  was  reversed.  Steven  D.  Carter  found  a  compromise  solution:  So 
strong  it  can  help  /  a  fallen  chestnut  get  away  /  from  a  village  urchin  / 
running  along  in  pursuit  -  /  that's  how  strong  the  wind  is!  Note  the  work 
that  went  into  this.  "Strong"  is  mentioned  twice  and  "fleeing"  becomes 
"help  .  .  .  get  away,"  making  the  poem  more  comic  than  in  the  original, 
which,  as  is,  is  not  a  masterpiece.  It  would  be  if  there  were  a  preface 
about  the  author  declining  an  invitation  because  he  had  a  cold  (wind  in 


183 


Japanese)  would  do  it.  As  the  usual  character  for  wind  JH  was  eschewed 
for  the  phonetic  fr^t,  the  poem  allows  for  that  cold  MM  reading!  Because 
Akera  Kanko  was  a  great  poet,  your  translator  is  confident  that  if  he  ever 
has  a  chance  to  examine  his  journals,  if  he  has  journals,  such  a  preface  or 
explanation  will  be  found. 

And,  now  a  17c  kyoka  where  the  chestnut  is  the  subject. 

te  ni  toreba  hito  o  sasu  to  iu  igakuri  no  emi  no  uchinaru  katana  osoroshi  kocho  pre- 1 672 
hand-in  take-if  person+acc  stab  said  spike-chestnut's  smile-within  sword/s  scary  #483 

See  Medusa,  turn  to  stone,  but  chestnuts  are  best  left  alone, 
For  when  one  cracks  a  smile,  it  can  pierce  you  to  the  bone! 


'He 'll  be  stabbed 
who  picks  up  a  chestnut 
from  the  ground; 

Most  dreadful  of  daggers 
within  a  smile  are  found! 


The  Chestnut  has  a  pleasant  smile  but  beware  its  tricks, 
When  you  reach  for  its  nuts,  you  find  a  beard  of  pricks! 

Priest  Kocho's  I7c?  kyoka  uses  a  natural  observation  -  ripe  chestnuts 
crack  a  smile,  but  when  you  take  the  nuts  you  get  poked  -  to  illustrate  an 
aphorism  from  the  14c  Taihei-ki,  popular  tales  of  the  Warring  Era:  "In 
those  times,  it  was  typical  for  men  to  hone  one's  sword  while  one 
laughed/smiled"  (^^(DMz.Jl&ffi<l±Vc&<D\(D>b#L  ±¥!E  16).  Puns  on 
within  =  uchi  =  striking  and  teeth/tooth=ha=blade/s  are  lost.  The  first  and 
last  readings  regain  wit  at  the  cost  of  losing  the  allusion  to  the  aphorism. 


yoru  naku  wa  mezurashikarazu  him  no  no  e  mushi  no  negoto  o  kiki  ni  kosoyuke  boun  1785 
night  cry  as-for  rare/attractive-is-not  day's  field/s-to  bugs'  sound-each  hear-to  espec.  go! 

Crying  at  night  is  hardly  rare  enough  to  make  one  weep; 
Go  out  and  catch  those  bugs  by  day,  talking  in  their  sleep. 

Crying  at  night  is  what  they  do,  too  boring,  I  say,  to  listen  to: 
But  daylight  fields  when  bugs  talk  in  their  sleep  -  that's  new! 


184 


Crying  at  night  is  old  hat.  -  Get  thee  out  to  the  fields  by  day 
where  bugs  talk  in  their  sleep  and  catch  them  if  you  may! 

Most  bug  kyoka,  dependent  on  bug  names  or  familiarity  with  their  calls, 
do  not  scan  in  translation.  Negoto,  "sleep-talk"  puns  as  root-by-root,  i.e., 
each  bug's  dwelling.  Even  losing  that,  Hakurikan  Boun's  kyoka  does. 


meoto  naka  ni  tada  futatsu  motsu  koromo  o  ba  kae-aite  kyo  no  hatsuya  awasen  yuchoro  16c 
wifehusbnd  just  two  have  dress+emph.  exchnge  tdy's  first  meet(requiremnts)-would  ~£E 

Wf  two  pairs  of  dress  between  them,  a  man  &  wife  use  reason: 
Exchanging  robes  today,  they,  too,  change  with  the  season! 

The  original  puns  on  the  name  of  the  clothing.  The  awase  ritually  worn  for 
the  first  time  in  the  year  in  the  first  week  of  the  Ninth  Month,  the  last  of 
fall  -  not  really  the  start  of  the  season,  needed  for  the  rhyme  -  is  a  robe 
with  a  lining.  Yuchoro  splits  awase  from  hatsu-awase,  or  First-Awase,  to 
verb  it.  The  meaning  is  making  it  in  time  or  trying  to  make  ends  meet. 


kyo  sake  ni  kiku  mo  hitasami  fujomono  nakanaka  inochi  nagaku  arnbeki  tatsunomi 
today  sake/wine-to  chrysanthemum  steep  no-energy-person  very  life  long  has-ought 

He  who  today  lacks  even  the  drive  to  steep  'mums  in  wine 
Will  probably  be  the  one  to  stay  alive  a  long,  long  time! 

Taoism  has  long  taught  that  doing  nothing  is  the  way  to  live  long.  It  also 
has  an  alchemic  side,  albeit  more  interested  in  elixirs  of  youth  than  gold. 
The  contradiction  in  the  two  endeavors,  or  rather  the  do-nothing  and  do- 
something  approaches,  is  beautifully  brought  out  in  the  kyoka,  which 
supposes  the  man  too  inert  to  engage  in  a  ritual  for  longevity  is  likely  not 
to  need  it.  The  ceremony  was  on  the  Ninth  Day  of  the  Ninth  Month. 

ogiku  o  mezuru  kyoka  wa  hanakami  no  ogiku  o  orite  kaku  mo  hazukashi  shokusanjin 
big  chrysanthemum+acc  treat  mad-song-as-for  nose-paper  Small-mum  folding  write  embarrassing 

A  mad  poem  about  a  giant  mum? 
I  blush  for  knowing  it  was  done 
upon  the  tissue  of  a  smaller  one. 

The  "blush"  is  mine.  Though  unlikely  that  hanakami,  i.e.  tissue-paper, 
punned  with  hanikami,  i.e.,  shy,  compensation  was  needed  for  a  major  pun 
lost   in  translation:   "folding"   (name-brand   Small   Mum  tissue)  + 


"plucking,"  both  orite.  While  chrysanthemum  was  a  fall  theme  in  haikai, 
this  poem  is  utterly  kyoka,  as  we  feel  no  connection  whatsoever 

with  the  natural  world  as  one  might  were  the  flower  used  for  what  "Small 
Mum"  was  usually  used  for. 


okuyama  no  momiji  to  miteya  sarumaro  ga  shiri  o  mo  shika  no  fumiwakete-yuku  shokusanjin  18c 
inner  mountains'  colored-leaves-as  seeing!/:  sarumaro 's  ass+acc  also  deer  tread-split-goes  1 


T  inner  mountain-in  red-leaves  tread-parting  cry/call  deers'  voice  hear  time+emph.  fall-as-for  sad 

okuyama  ni  momiji  fumiwake  naku  shika  no  koe  kiku  toki  zo  aki  wa  kanashiki  sarumaru  9c 


This  was  the  lead  poem  for  a  Monster  chapter  titled  Maple  Leaf  Macaque 
&  Homowisteria  Rumps.  Shokusanjin's  take  on  a  Hundred  Poets'  poem 
attributed  to  9c  Sarumaru  plays  on  his  name,  Monkey-guy.  Japanese 
'monkeys'  are  really  macaque,  red  of  face  and  rump.  The  mountains  in  the 
old  capital  area  (Kyoto  &  Nara)  are  largely  maple,  like  New  England,  fiery 
in  the  fall.  Both  poems  began  with  my  title,  okuyama,  mountains  deep  in 
the  interior,  embodying  a  concept  of  central  rather  than  the  peripheral 
remoteness.  While  purely  perverted  in  translation,  parting  the  foliage  to 
progress  is  so  common  an  expression  in  Japanese  literature  that,  buttocks 
aside,  the  original  feels  almost  natural.  Still,  Shokusanjin's  less  outlandish 
parody  in  his  Mad  Hundred  Poets  One  Poem  CElUftW A^Hf  is  better: 


naku  shika  no  koe  kiku  tabi  ni  namida-gumi  sarumaru-tayu  ikai  shutan  shokusanjin 
cry/calling  deers'  voice's  hear  time-each  tear-bleary  monkeyman  mighty  maudlin  c.1800 


Deep  in  the  Hills 


'Tis  when  I  hear 
the  mating  deer  bleating 
softly  as  they  go 


Thinking  what 
he  sees  is  fall  foliage 
The  buck  stops 


Parting  the  crimson  leaves 
that  autumn  does  feel  sad. 


not  here  but,  treading,  parts 
Monkeyman 's  red  buttocks. 


Each  time  a  deer  bleat 
strikes  his  ear,  I  fear  his  eyes, 
poor  Monkey  Man! 

How  they  overflow  with  tears 
now  the  maudlin  Fall  is  here! 


186 


At  first,  I  thought  our  mad  poet  from  a  macho  era  of  peace  poked  fun  at 
men  from  a  more  heroic  time  who  did  not  mind  crying;  but  the  waka  dates 
back  to  the  Heian  era,  a  peaceful,  even  precious  time,  and  Shokusanjin 
includes  Sarumaru/o's  bureaucratic  rank,  Tayu  (lit.  "bold  husband")  for  it 
became  the  title  for  a  top-ranking  courtesan,  who  could  be  what  Usanians 
call  drama  queens.  Another  kyoka  parody  by  LNLS  (lost  name,  lost  source)  is 
as  true  and  every  bit  as  sincere  as  the  original  waka:  "To  hear  the  voices 
of  crimson  leaf-viewing  drunks,  deep  in  the  hills,  even  the  autumn  can  be 
quite  funny.  "(HUJ  {-ftHUf^^S^^ffl  <  B^fA  t>  &>fr  L  §  okuyama 
ni  momijimi  no  kyaku  namayoi  no  koe  kiku  toki  zo  aki  mo  okashiki.). 


yayo  shigure  mono  omou  sode  no  nakariseba  konoha  no  ato  ni  nani  o  somemashi  jien  skks 
hey,  shigure!  thing-thinking  sleeves'  not-if/when  leaves'  after  what  dye-would?  1155-1225 


Tell  me,  Shigure, 
without  the  sleeves  of  lovers, 
what  would  you  dye 

After  the  colorful  leaves 
of  Fall  abandon  ye  sky? 


Farmers  see  rain  in  terms  of  their  crops,  so  the  idea  of  rain  dyeing  flowers 
or  fall  foliage  was  probably  a  noble  rather  than  folk  invention.  This 
Shinkokinshu  waka  seems  a  bit  simple  for  a  mad  poem,  but  that  charming 
"ya  yo, "  a  familiar  way  for  a  prelate  to  address  the  rain,  and  the  cool 
rather  than  personally  involved  way  love  is  addressed  says  kyoka  to  me. 

ya  yo  shigure  ame  nao  uwamiri  o  tanomu  zo  ya  mada  iro  usuki  urushi-momiji  ni  mitoku  1 666 
hey,  time-rain,  still  outer-coat+acc,  depending  (on  you)!/:  still  color-pale  ivy-maples-on 

Hey  there,  Shigure,  when  do  you  plan  to  apply  the  final  varnish? 
The  lacquer-maples  still  look  dull,  don 't  let  your  reputation  tarnish! 

Obviously  the  ivy-maples  refer  to  the  leaves,  but  "ivy"  less  obviously 
unless  you  know  Japanese,  is  synonymous  with  the  sort  of  lacquer  once 
called  Japanning.  This  new  take  on  the  shigure,  by  Mitoku  (1588-1669), 
perhaps  the  first  kyoka  master  with  the  polished  style  identified  with  later 
Tenmei  kyoka,  alters  the  idea  of  dyeing  ever  so  slightly  to  painting,  and 
dropping  the  teary  sleeved  lovers  for  the  language  of  craft  that  the  haikai 
of  that  time  preferred.  "Don't  let  your  reputation  tarnish!"  is  not  in  the 
original,  but  may  well  lie  between  the  lines.  The  addition  was  still  not 
enough  to  make  up  for  the  loss  in  translation. 


187 


r  j;r>r  (dm  }*n^(Dm aizx mm frs<D4k%±ti\cit-f  mmmm 

koyoi  kono  tsuki  wa  sekai  no  bijin  nite  sugao  ka  kumo  no  kesho  dani  sezu  horai  kikyo 
tonight  this  moon-as-for  world's  beauty  so  bare-face?  cloud's  make-up  even  does-not  1785 

This  full  moon  is  a  world-class  beauty  queen,  alright! 
Bare-faced,  I  see  her  pass  without  one  cloud  of  white. 

P  Queen  of  the  Firmament  P 

Could  tonight's  moon 
bare-faced  as  only 
beauty  dares 

have  sent 
the  cosmetic 
clouds  packing? 

Does  her  bare  face  prove  the  cosmic  beauty  of  the  Moon  tonight 
scorns  cosmetics,  hence,  no  powder-puff  cloud  remains  in  sight? 

Unless  otherwise  noted,  the  generic  tsuki,  or  moon,  is  presumed  full  on  the 
middle  day  of  the  middle  month  of  Autumn.  This  one  boasts  a  novel 
double  kango  (2-character)  crown  "sekai  no  bijin,  "(the)  World's  Beauty. 
My  second  reading  relates  beauty  and  a  bare-face.  In  a  culture  where  it 
was  thought  conceited  not  to  wear  make-up  (it  would  say,  "I  am  so  pretty  I 
do  not  have  to"),  readers  could  fill  in  between  the  lines.  Today,  Japanese 
might  miss  the  wit  of  "beautiful  person"  {bijin),  but  good  readers  would 
have  known  the  Chinese  used  it  to  describe  the  moon  (or  sun)  as  the  Lord, 
or  Ruler  on  high.  We  see  here  the  modernization  and  internationalization 
of  bijin.  Does  Horai  Sanjin  |iiA  Kikyo 's  poem  laugh  at  the  entire  body  of 
poems  where  men  swoon  over  this  luminous  heavenly  body?  For  compar- 
ison's sake,  here  is  a  ruder  17c  kyoka  by  physician-poet  Nakarai  Bokuyo: 

fi^btot  Z.M<D&&&k>fo^X%ffltfrftZ>M  <Df£  <0  frt£  h#  bokuyo 
katsura-otoko  kumo  no  koromo  o  bun-mute  maruhadaka  naru  tsuki  no  nari  kana 
katsura-tree  man  cloud-clothing/robes+acc  jerk(rudely)-stripped/ing 
round/completely  nude  becomes  moons  appearance,  bokuyo 

The  Katsura  man  has  stripped  the  moon,  her  clouds  lie  ev  'rywhere 
Scattered .  .  o'er  the  firmament .  .  while  she  .  .  is  absolutely  .  .  bare! 


The  Man  in  the  Moon  has  stripped  off  her  clouds,  every  layer 
It's  clear  to  see  that  Luna  now  is  not  just  nude  but  bare. 

The  Man  in  the  Moon  was  popular  with  kyoka,  especially  female  poets: 


teratera  to  tsuki  no  katsurao  sasu  kage  mo  hazukashigenaru  ro  no  hageyama  chie  no  naishi 
gleaming,  moon's  laurel-man  beaming/pointing-out  form  embarrassed-becomes  old  bald  mtn 

Light  beams  from  the  Man  in  the  Moon  need  no  bush  but,  say, 
Is  that  the  crown  of  Old  Mount  Baldy  blushing  bright  as  day? 

The  Man  in  the  moon  wears  the  laurels  and  makes  the  world  swoon, 
Poor  old  Mount  Baldy,  his  blush  is  so  bright  you  'd  think  it  noon! 

His  features  lit  up  by  moon-beams  from  the  Laurel  Man  so  fair, 
Old  Mt.  Baldy  blushes  bright  to  show  the  hair  that  is  not  there! 

This  is  by  the  most  popular  female  kyoka-master  Chie  no  Naishi,  or  Little 
Ignoramus.  The  moon  man  associates  with  a  laurel  tree,  so  we  have  a 
verdant  moon  and  bare  mountain;  the  word  for  embarrassment  includes 
shige,  i.e.,  dense  with  vegetation,  unlike  the  mountain;  the  kage  usually 
suggests  the  face  of  the  moon,  not  mountain;  the  psychological  mimesis 
tera  tera,  for  gleaming/glowing,  recalls  temples  =  tera,  where  we  have 
moon-viewing  old  men,  who,  in  a  well-known  haikai  are  embarrassed  not 
to  have  one  good-looker  among  them.  We  met  the  handsome  Moon  Man 
and  the  poetesses  in  the  Mad  Love  chapter. 

kuitaranu  uwasa  mo  kikazu  kara  yamato  tatta  hitotsu  no  mochi  no  tsukikage  hamabe  no  kurohito 
eat-suffice-not  rumor+emph  hear-not  sino-japanese  just  one  rice-cake-moon-form  1785 

Let 's  pour  our  wine,  then,  lay  back:  when  the  cat 's  out,  a  man  will  play: 
There 's  cheese  enough  in  this  fat  moon  to  feed  Japan  and  all  Cathay! 

Who  ever  found  it  not  enough  to  go  around.  .  .   -  How  can 
just  one  mochi  called  the  Moon  fill  up  both  China  and  Japan! 

In  countless  waka  written  long  before  the  Moon  envied  Japan,  when  the 
yet-to-be-united  nation  was  at  war  within  and  without,  the  moon,  as 
something  men  all  over  could  enjoy  simultaneously  without  competition, 
embodied  world  peace.  The  first  kyoka-master  (of  the  Tenmei  poets)  said 
to  charge  a  A?£f4,  or  large  sign-up  fee,  to  join  his  group,  added  a  new 
element,  if  only  in  good  pun:  the  new  (l  4-day)  full-moon  is  called  the 
mochi-zuki,  which  sounds  like  sweetrice-cake  moon  (actually  mochizuki  M 
M  mochi  is  written  "hope").  And  just  one  such  miraculously  suffices  for 
all.  Unfortunately,  the  similarity  of  mochi  to  the  moon  can  only  be 
appreciated  by  those  who  are  familiar  with  it.  That  is  one  reason  it  was 
dumped  for  cheese  in  the  first  reading,  a  paraverse.  Rice  cake,  as 
something  sweet,  was  thought  repulse  drinkers,  so  the  wine,  too,  is  bogus, 
but  the  paraverse  captures  the  easy  natural  atmosphere  of  the  original. 


189 


$-'%Km<DTftl}%fflltoXM<Dffi.<D&Zb:e!)%  if^W'H  kisshu 
ima  sara  ni  kumo  no  shita-obi  hikishimete  tsuki  no  sawari  no  soragoto  zo  uki  d.  1 802 
now  more-yet  clouds  under-belt  pulls  tight  moon's  obstacle/menses'  empty/sky-act!  sad 

Bloody  or  Just  Blue? 

Now,  more  than  ever,  cinching  up  her  cloudy  loin-cloth  tight, 
the  moon 's  indisposed,  or  is  it  a  pose,  regardless,  a  sad  night. 

Kisshu  was  Yomo  no  Akara's  main  rival  at  the  dawn  of  the  Tenmei  mad 
poem  boom.  From  youth,  he  excelled  at  playing  with  waka  trope  in  a 
dramatic  haikai-style  ifelf^  and  supposedly  popped  up  with  this  poem 
immediately  when  asked  for  a  poem  on  'extemporaneous  love'  by  his 
waka  teacher.  His  original  combines  the  old  trope  of  an  obstacle  to 
(seeing)  the  moon  as  the  menses  and  the  erotic  word  for  a  woman's  loin- 
cloth "lower-belt,"  rarely  applied  to  clouds  around  mountains  (usually, 
just  belts)  puns  sky-thing  and  fiction  {soragoto)  and  sadness  +float.  I  have 
seen  this  poem  cited  in  a  number  of  books,  partly  to  illustrate  why  Kisshu, 
unlike  Yomo  no  Akara,  did  not  become  popular.  For  all  its  cleverness,  it 
is  not  off-the-wall,  and  while  it  has  been  praised,  the  two  simple  older 
kyoka  about  utter  nudity  of  Princess  Sao  and  the  moon  are  more  appealing. 
However,  I  have  seen  too  little  of  Kisshu's  work  to  judge  it  as  a  whole. 

jusan  de  pakkari  h/wareshi  soraware  ni  tsuki  no  sawari  no  kumo  mo  kakarazu  yomo  no  akara 
thirteen-at  suddenly  clear/parting  sky=empty-split-with  moon-blocking-clouds  even  attach-not 

On  the  thirteenth,  the  sky  suddenly  parts  and,  loh  and  behold 
Free  as  a  bird,  the  moon  pops  cloudless  out  of  the  fold! 

At  thirteen,  it  suddenly  splits  open,  an  empty  slit 
in  a  sense,  still  cloudless  &  the  moon  yet  to  visit 

This  poem  by  young  Shokusanjin  plays  with  a  saying  to  the  effect  that  a 
girl  "splits  open  at  13  and  sprouts  hair  at  16"  +H{i°o^i  ^+7^.  The 
kyoka  dictionary  from  which  it  popped  into  my  view  calls  it  a  j^s^V  or 
"real  dirty."  As  with  Kisshu's  poem,  it  depends  upon  moon  and  menses 
being  one  (rather  than  parted  by  Anglo  Saxon  and  Latin,  or  whatever  as  in 
English).  The  dictionary  editor  Suzuki  Tozo  does  not  explain  why  he 
chose  the  poems  he  chose,  but  this  poem  has  two  things  going  for  it.  First, 
it  shows  the  first-man  of  kyoka  could  be  as  vulgar  as  the  rest  (such  as 
Kisshu  whose  menstruating  moon  is  better  known).  Second,  it  is 
remarkable  for  being  one  of  a  small  number  of  poems  with  a  single  letter 
pun  doing  everything.  (i=  ha  could  be  pronounced  "wa"  as  ghoti  is  fish. 


A  few  boring  points  before  preceding  to  Winter.  First,  unless  the  New 
Year  is  included  with  the  Spring  rather  than  treated  as  a  Season,  Autumn 
is  the  largest  season  for  poetry  in  Japan.  It  contains  both  the  Star  Festival 
{tanabata)  and  the  harvest  moon  (usually  just  the  moon,  the  bright  moon 
or  the  fifteenth-night),  that  is,  two  of  the  top  three  seasonal  themes  in 
waka  (spring  tree  blossoms,  once  plum,  later  cherry  are  the  third).  While 
Tanabata  was  also  given  much  attention  by  haikai,  it  was  not  a  haikai 
monopoly  -  as  was  the  case  with  summer  heat  -  there  was  no  competitive 
exclusion.  Kyoka's  take  on  the  subject  seems  more  on  the  line  of  an 
extrapolation  of  the  waka  tradition  which  could  itself  get  pretty  silly  (see 
pages  of  Lady  Daibu's  poems  in  the  740-page  Monster).  Second,  pardon  the 
confusion  about  shigure,  called  a  Winter  phenomenon  in  the  parody 
chapter!  As  colored  leaves  are  clearly  Autumnal,  the  "shigure"  that  dyes 
them  obviously  cannot  belong  to  winter.  This  rain  is  what  haikai  poets 
call  mura-shigure,  not  a  cold  drizzle  but  quick  sprinkles  brought  by  clouds 
usually  metaphored  as  a  little  monks  coming  down  from  the  mountain 
temples  to  beg,  but  which  Basho,  in  one  of  his  maddest  haiku,  metaphored 
as  a  dog's  kakebari,  or  the  sort  of  quick  pee  a  dog  makes  to  mark  his  way 
about  .  .  .  But,  here  is  where  the  confusion  cannot  be  helped,  the  Autumn 
showers,  as  a  type  of  shigure,  are  often  called  simply  shigure. 


P  Infamous  nominalist  Teitoku?  This  good  man  is  often  put  down  as  a  poor  poet 
who  was  all  pun  and  no  substance.  While  he  did  indeed  favor  that  side,  he  also  was  a 
conceptual  -  or,  metaphysical  -  poet  who  could  even  be  lyrical.  Be  that  as  it  may,  if 
said  playfulness  is  connected  with  a  healthy  Taoist  mindset  and  the  puns  associated 
with  Jungian  synchronicity,  even  such  criticism  seems  shallow. 

P  Clover.  The  Japanese  hagi  is  not  like  the  typical  Irish  clover  but  a  "bush- 
clover,"  Lespedeza  bicolor. 

P  Ghoti  as  fish?  Invented  by  George  Bernard  Shaw,  who  suggested  we  pay  for  the 
Atomic  Bomb  project  by  dropping  silent  letters  -  saving  secretarial  and  printing 
expenses  -  to  show  how  odd  English  spelling  was.  :  the  gh  from  "laugh,"  the  o 
from  "women,"  and  the  ti  from  "nation." 


Mad  Winter:  Colder  than  Snow,  the  Year 's  Cruel  End 

samukiyo  wa  ikanaru  uta  mo  yomitsubeshi  amari  kagameba  hitomaru  ni  naru  soya/munenari  1666 
cold-night-as-for  whatsortof  song+emph  read-should  too-much  curling-if  hitomaru=man-round  becomes 

On  a  cold  night,  what  old  poems  should  a  person  read? 
With  arms  &  legs  pulled  in,  I'd  keep  Hitomaru  around! 

If  you  know  the  popular  name  of  the  ancient  poet  Hitomaro,  that  is, 
Hitomaru  literally  means  person+round,  no  further  explanation  is  needed. 
The  shigure,  time-rain,  should  start  off  this  season  but  we  have  it  with  the 
Mad  Parody.  The  cold  usually  comes  later,  but  there  is  not  much  straight 
cold  in  31 -mora  poetry  and  the  above  is  such  a  fine  example  of  the  sweet 
and  light  side  -  as  opposed  to  the  hard-boiled  light  of  Yuchoro  and 
Getsudokan  -  of  old  kyoka.  The  coldest  part  of  the  winter  implied  by  the 
Hitomaru  kyoka  comes  late  in  the  season.  Cold  rain,  shigure,  the  Gods- 
gone  Month  and  the  unpopular  but  ubiquitous  God  Poverty  (who  should 
be  gone  but  usually  isn't  or  goes  and  hopefully  stays  away)  usually  start 
off  this  season,  but  we  have  something  about  each  elsewhere  and  this 
poem,  though  simple,  corny  and  not  really  translatable,  is  heart-warming 
and  novel  in  the  manner  of  the  poems  by  maverick  poets  such  as  Takuan, 
Ryokan  and  Kotomichi.  It  deserves  a  special  place  at  the  chapter  head. 

kesa  no  yuki  ni  waga  ato  tsukete(tsuke  de)  detekern  o  tow/barenikeru  to  hito  ya  miru  ran  3z.JCEL  1534 
this  morning's  snow-in  my  track  making  (make-not-w/)  left  question/flew+emph.  so  people-as-for  see-ought 

Going  out  and  leaving  footprints  makes  others  want  to  know 

Who  paid  a  visit,  brother,  and  so  early  through  the  snow? 

 +  

Going  out  this  morning  I  left  no  footprints  in  the  snow 
I  must  have  been  flying  for  all  that  other  people  know. 

This  16c  kyoka  is  an  exemplar  of  the  sort  of  orthographical  pun  common 
when  the  use  of  a  diacritical  mark  was  still  optional.  The  original  has  only 
two  letters'  difference  oltt  vs.  of}  T  and  bUtl  vs.  bffltl  . 
An  ideal  translation  might  have  kept  the  two  readings  closer,  but  to  do  so 
and  have  it  remain  at  least  somewhat  poetic  would  be  very  hard. 

yoshi  hito  wa  inn  to  iu  to  mo  furu  yuki  ni  waga  ato  tsukete-iden  to  zo  omou  shokusanjin 
good  person-as-for  dog-as  say  even  fall/old  snow-in  my  trail  making  go-out+emph  think 


The  cultured  folk  may  call  me  an  old  cur,  but  out  I  will  go, 
To  make  and  leave  my  trail,  blazoned  in  the  fallen  snow. 


Hamada  notes  that  dogs  like  to  play  in  the  snow,  but  snow-viewing  by 
Basho  et  al  was  already  well  known  and  that  does  not  explain  why  "good" 
or  "cultured"  people  had  to  be  specified.  Could  Shokusanjin  look  back  to 
the  complaints  by  house  owners  about  virginal  snowfall  violated  by  rude 
souls?  If  "dog"  can  pun  with  "not  in"  [inu)  the  poet  may  mean  both  that 
though  recognized  aesthetes  are  not  in  his  neighborhood,  he  will  go  snow- 
viewing,  and  that  he  will  also,  like  it  or  not,  piss  on  the  snow,  a  favorite 
practice  and  theme  for  Issa,  self-proclaimed  enemy  of  that  "cold  stuff." 

fuminan  wa  oshiki  ni  tsumorite  kikoshimese  ashida  no  ha  ni  na  kake  so  hatsuyuki  tosaku 
treading-as-4  regretful=fancydish-on  piling  eat+elegant  longstilt-geta  teeth-on  put-not,  first-snow! 

Don 't  tread  on  her!  Pile  her  high  upon  a  dish,  and  say  a  grace. 
Save  the  teeth  on  your  choppine;  she 's  the  first  snow  of  her  race! 

Gender,  grace  and  race  are  added  and  the  snow  is  what  needs  saving,  but 
English  loses  both  the  fancy  serving  plate  that  puns  as  "regretful"  before 
morphing  into  said  dish,  and  a  warning  not  to  leave  shoe-prints  on  the 
first-snow  with  "teeth"  punning  as  the  geta  stilts  and  more.  And  the  puns 
are  but  part  of  it:  how  to  translate  kikomeshite,  or  "eat  up,"  in  words 
elegant  enough  for  an  Emperor  that  echo  the  mimetic  gikogiko  tooth-reply 
{hagotae,  something  like  the  food-test  term  "mouth-feel"  but  a  concept 
known  by  all  in  Japan)  of  the  snow  and  the  obsolete  na  ~  so  negative? 

It  would  be  a  shame  to  tread,  so  pile  it  on  a  plate; 
Kick  off  your  clods  &  eat  the  snow  before  it  is  too  late! 

With  all  that  going  on  or  possibly  going  on,  how  could  we  not  add  alot  to 
make  up  for  the  huge  losses  in  translation?  What  if  we  surrender  the  shoes, 
only  important  for  their  stilts=teeth,  and  play  with  tread? 

The  first  snow  is  not  water;  do  not  tread,  but  go  ahead - 
Heap  a  helping  on  a  plate  and  royally  you  will  be  fed! 

This  poem  provides  a  good  contrast  between  what  kyoka  and  haiku  can  do. 
Issa  has  a  well-known  ku  saying  simply,  "What  yummy-looking  snow  this 
is:  fuuwari  fuwari! "  tp^  £  5  &ff /^-&»  5  fi  D  <9  nk  mumaso  na  yuki 
ga  fuuwari  fuwari  kand).  Mumai  is  child-speak  for  delicious.  Fuuwari 
fuwari  would  be  fuluffy,  fluffy.  To  both  caution  on  treading  and  discuss 
the  tastiness  of  snow  would  be  too  much  to  combine  in  a  haiku.  That  is 
where  the  extra  14  mora  come  in.  But,  for  all  that  discussion,  the 
translations  reflect  the  translator's  limitations.  If  any  reader  owns  or  can 
affect  the  high-style,  your  services  are  wanted. 


193 


mwo  x  mm:m<  rum^t  la^^^  e^tc^  ^rmi^  =  &m^ 

yukifurite  secchin  toku  geta  wa  nashi  kokoro  ni  kakaru  shiri  no  ana  kana  kinoshita  katsutoshi  b.  1 569 
snow  falling  w.c.  far  geta-as-for  none  heart/mind-on  sets/weighs  butt's  hole!   i.e.  choshoshi  d.  1649 

The  snow  falls,  the  outhouse  is  far  out  &  you  got  no  geta: 
Now  it  starts  to  prey  upon  the  mind:  your  ass  hole,  fella! 

There  is  not  even  an  allusion  to  snow-viewing  here.  We  are  back  to  the 
bawdy  folk-style  kyoka  of  the  16  &  17c  aristocrat.  This  is  a  sort  of  riddle. 
You  wonder  where  it  is  heading  long  before  you  get  there;  the  funda- 
mental rule  for  translating  the  poem  is  that  the  solution,  the  hole,  must 
stay  at  the  end.  That  fella  is  lame.  Long-tooth  geta  were  good  for  ferrying 
people  across  slushy  snow,  provided  it  was  not  too  deep,  but  they  do  not 
easily  rhyme  and  choppine  (the  stilted  medieval  shoe  of  many  spellings)  are 
not  well-known.  If  we  give  up  "geta  "  we  can  do  better  - 

Snow  keeps  falling,  the  outhouse  is  far  and  you  got  no  shoes? 
What 's  the  "Can 't  stop  thinking  about  your  ass-hole  blues! " 

Shoeless  and  far  from  the  outhouse,  snow  takes  a  toll 
Hell  is  being  fixated  upon  your  own  .  .  .  asshole! 

While  the  subject  matter  is  Ozarkian,  the  original  is  perfectly  crafted,  with 
a  natural  grace  lost  by  the  forced  translations. 


frtlffi  h  \Z.^&X  <        C  t  ft  h  <9  fr^<D  h  b  tl  ¥    PU¥  6  A 

waregachi  ni  arasoute  kuu  fugutojiru  morikae  no  aru  inochi  naranedo  yamate  no  shirohito 
me-win-as  struggling  eat  swellfish-soup  heaping-seconds  is  life  is-not  but  ®f0  1785 

Fighting  others  to  get  a  second  dish  of  swellfish  soup 
Not  that  we  will  ever  get  another  serving  of  life  .  .  . 

Swellfish,  like  the  sea  cucumber,  was  a  favorite  winter  subject  for  haikai. 
The  latter  was  pretty  much  neglected  by  kyoka,  but  the  former  was  popular, 
perhaps  because  matters  of  life  and  death  lend  themselves  to  comic 
treatment.  All  the  world  knows  parts  of  this  fish  are  deadly  poison  and  all 
Japanese  know  the  saying  "You  are  a  fool  if  you  eat  swellfish  and  a  fool  if 
you  do  not. "  Anyone  would  think  the  first  line  of  this  didactic  but  witty 
kyoka  should  also  have  become  an  aphorism  but,  as  far  as  I  know,  that 
never  happened.  Kyoka,  like  haikai,  is  full  of  swellfish/blowfish/globefish. 
The  740-page  monster  has  a  few  more  examples,  but  your  translator  has  a 
book  called  Swellfish  Soup  on  the  back-burner  -  since  2003  -  and  does  not 
want  to  serve  up  any  more  at  this  time. 


194 


%  V  >    b  h  ( ti  b*)X  h  3§   t?  £  fi1  <  ¥  { -  U  <D  ^  £r  ^  [r]  ft  o  §  ^  &  &  $  if  #4^ 

o//?w  to  wo  (redo)  mata  mo  awamu  to  yuku  toshi  ni  namida  no  tama  o  tamuketsuru  kana 
aging  am(when)  again+emph.  meet-not-w/,  leaving-year-to  teardrops/gems+acc  offer/give 

Aging  fast,  what  hope  Feeling  my  age, 

have  I  to  meet  you  again?  not  knowing  if  ever  we 

So,  Leaving  Year  shal1  meet  aSain 

Do  accept  my  presents,  I  send  off  the  Old  Year, 

these  baubles  called  tears.  My  parting  gift  -  tears! 

This  poem  by  Shunzei  (11 14-1204),  father  of  Teika,  editor  of  the  Hundred 
Poets,  is  the  best  waka  ever  on  tears  as  jewels.  If  the  New  Year  was  a 
time  for  foolish  but,  even  including  mixed  feelings  about  aging,  always 
joyful  poems  (as  not  to  mar  the  re-creation),  the  Year's  End  was  alternate- 
ly mourned  and  kicked  out  if  not  around.  Still  this  lament  less  for  the  Old 
Year  than  for  the  poet  himself,  as  is  the  following  kyoku  by  Issa  composed 
three  years  before  he  kicked  the  bucket: 

yuku  toshi  wa  doko  de  jiiji  o  okizari  ni  issa 
going  year-as-for  where-at  uncle+acc  place-leave-as 

the  years  go  on  the  years  drive  on 

when  will  they  drop  just  when  will  the  geezer 

this  old  man  off  be  left  behind! 

Just  where  will  it 
drop  off  the  old  man, 
the  leaving  year? 

Like  Shunzei,  but  more  completely,  Issa's  concern  was  for  himself  and  not 
the  old  year.  He  spent  most  of  his  time  traveling  from  house  to  house  so  he 
may  not  have  known  where  he  would  be,  or  he  literally  feared  for  his  life, 
as  the  snow  was  making  his  roof  creak  and  moan  and  threatened,  in  his 
words,  to  turn  him  into  sushi  -  it  was  squeezed  while  lightly  marinating  in 
his  day  -  at  any  moment  (±9\Z.X^n&  V  /\  t  q§  tJ  X^KhBK^  & 
fob).  But  most  old  poems  dwelled  on  the  poor  Old  Year  and  almost  600 
years  after  Shunzei  offered  his  lachrymal  baubles,  Issa's  contemporary 
Shokusanjin  would  cheerfully  protest: 

$-&b\z.ttfr&L'$-AsW&;&  *)  XX^m<  tiXty<  t  L  miU^it 

ima  sara  ni  nani  ga  oshiman  tenmu  yori  nisen  nenrai  kurete  yuku  toshi  shokusanjin 
now  more-so  what+emph.  lament-would?  tenmu-from  2000  years  setting-go  years  c.1800 


195 


J"*  Auld  Lang  Syne  is  doing  fine  P 

Why  do  I  still  waste  my  tears 
On  yet  another  passing  Year! 

Haven 't  thousands,  all  the  same, 
Left  us  since  great  Tenmu  reigned? 

The  first-person  plural  might  be  the  better  guess  -  pronouns  are  almost 
always  guesses  -  but  I  like  to  imagine  this  kyoka-master  of  masters 
drinking  heavily  as  was  most  proper  at  a  Year-Forget  Party  with  eyes 
moist  for  the  lost  souls  and  lost  opportunities  of  the  year  and,  perhaps  for 
good  things  that  he  wished  could  last.  The  tears  are  not  really  for  the  year, 
but  even  in  the  facetious,  or,  in  Japanese  poetry,  mostly  in  the  facetious, 
one  finds  some  truth.  Yes,  English  essayists  also  played  around  with 
anthropomorphic  units  of  time,  but  only  in  a  farcical  manner.  Even  the 
great  Lamb  {Rejoicings  Upon  the  New  Year's  Coming  of  Age)  cannot 
move  us.  But  Issa  with  his  simple  end-of-year  house-cleaning  kyoka  can: 

mzzym^&w&^frR&izM&ftR  Emm  — #  »-t 

susu  hokori  haka  de  kono  yo  o  furu  ie  ni  tada  mi  ni  sou  wa  tsukibi  narikeri  issa 
ashes  dust  sweep-not-w/  this  world  old  house-as/in  only  body-with  accomp.-as-4  months-days  not+ 

This  world  is  like  an  old  house,  hardly  worth  sweeping  out  - 
When  all  that  stays  with  me  are  the  months  and  the  days. 

tWi^wrti^fi^Wttt  fir  «9  ta&m±L&  ±1z  mMMWiM 

susuhaki  no  uchiyori  haru  wa  kinikerashi  hokori  tatsu  nari  kasumi  tatsu  nari  futome 
soot-cleaning-within-from  spring-as-for  come-has  dust  rising-is  mist  rising  is  1679 

Spring  has  sprung,  and  before  our  dusting  is  even  done, 
!Up  rise  the  clouds  of  soot!!  Up  rise  the  clouds  of  mist! 

Both  poems  refer  to  the  annual  soot-cleaning  day  when  everyone  (in 
modern  times,  even  corporate  officers)  wraps  a  rag  around  their  head  and 
collectively  wars  against  the  soot  accumulated  over  the  year.  It  is  close 
enough  to  the  end  of  the  year  that,  occasionally,  the  astronomically 
calculated  solar  Spring  may  fall  on  it.  Issa's  kyoka  needs  no  more 
comment.  The  second,  the  first  poem  in  the  1679  Silver  Leaf  Ebisu  Song 
Anthology  (Ginyo-ikyokushu  ISHiftttl!)  anthology  of  1186  "savage 
songs"  or  "wild  waka"  reprinted  in  Broadview)  is  by  j^iz  Futome  (fat-woman, 
possibly  a  pseudonym  of  the  ed.  Kofu  ff  JH?)  is  masterful  in  the  original,  where 
Spring's  falling  "(old)  year-within,"  or  toshi-no-uchi,  a  calendrical 
anomaly  so  frequent  it  was  not  really  an  anomaly  but  a  common 
contradiction,  becomes  "dusting-within"  yet  keeps  both  meanings  by 
association.  A  lesser  poet  would  have  had  ".  .  .  the  soot  into  the  mist 


become. "  The  translator  had  a  hard  time  not  letting  rhyme  talk  him  into 
doing  just  that.  Lots  of  stuff  rising  into  the  air  is  propitious  as  it  speaks  of 
prosperity  as  noted  in  a  famous  Manyoshu  poem  of  "kokumi  country- 
viewing"  -  annual  ceremony  performed  by  the  Emperor  as  a  blessing. 
Whether  poems  about  the  spring  coming  within  the  old  year  ought  to  be 
among  the  New  Year  poems  at  the  start  or  on  the  tail  of  the  winter  has 
long  been  debated.  Your  translator  favors  the  start  but  considering  the 
dusting,  the  winter  is  suitable  here.  Now,  returning  to  the  Year's  End,  we 
shall  focus  on  one  aspect  about  it  that  the  nobles  who  wrote  waka  missed. 


shakkin  mo  ima  wa  tsutsumu  ni  tsutsumarezu  yaburekabure  no  fundoshi  no  kure 
balls/debts  too  now-as-for  stuff-in  stuff-cannot  torn/desperate  loin-cloth/[y]ears  eve 

The  money  I  owe 
I  can  no  more  hide  than 
the  fam  'ly  jewels 

barely  in  my  loincloth  rent 
as  this  old  year's  arrears. 

Play  on  balls  as  gold,  or  money,  was  old  hat  as  balls  in  Japanese  are  gold- 
gems/balls  (kintama).  The  kin  in  "debts=shakkin"  doubles  as  "balls,"  and 
the  tail  of  the  "loin-cloth=fun<i0s/?/"  that  barely  holds  them,  after  arriving 
to  the  "end"  (no  kure)  becomes  the  year  (toshi).  Readers  who  recall  the 
poem  are  right.  This  kyoka  by  Shokusanjin's  friend,  Akera  Kanko  (1740- 
1800)  is  one  of  a  dozen  or  so  kyoka  Englished  two  or  more  times. 

shakkin  wa  kubi  dake  tsumoru  omisoka  kado  no  yuki  sae  haraekanetari  kabe  no  nakanuri 
debt-as4  neck/head  up  to  buried  last-day  gate's  snow  even  dispel/shovel-off  cannot  1785 

Up  to  my  neck  in  debt,  I  fear  it 's  the  last  day  of  the  year; 
Unable  to  go  out  to  shovel  snow,  I'm  buried  in  here! 

While  the  God  Poverty  was  given  attention  by  aristocratic  16  and  17c 
ky  oka-masters,  the  less  abstract  theme  of  debt,  something  supposed  to  be 
paid-off  by  year's  end  was  developed  by  the  more  lowly  merchant  and 
samurai  engaged  in  haikai  and  only  reached  kyoka  when  it  was  written  by 
other  classes  in  the  18c.  The  juxtaposition  of  being  sunken  in  debt  and 
literally  buried  because  of  fear  of  going  outside  in  the  above  Tenmei  kyoka 
is  well-done.  Issa,  by  the  way,  did  have  enough  spare  change  to  pay 
someone  to  shovel  the  snow  off  his  roof  so  as  not  to  be  turned  into  sushi 
and  enough  spare  humor  to  laugh  at  his  poverty: 


197 


hane  haete  zeni  ga  tobunari  toshinokure 
wings  growing  change-the  fly-does  year-end 


Money  grows  wings 
and  as  it  flies  off  sings 
"Happy  New  Year! " 


Here,  your  translator  has  converted  a  so  and  so  kyoku  by  Issa  into  a 
masterpiece  by  replacing  the  "Year's  End"  in  the  original  with  a  touch  of 
irony,  "  ~  sings  /  Happy  New  Year! "  and  doing  that  with  an  AAB  end- 
rhyme,  ideal  for  mimicking  Japanese  internal  rhyme  as  it  is  within  a 
sentence  and  for  leaving  the  last  line  as  a  punch-line.  That  should  be  a 
lesson  for  the  reader,  who  is  invited  to  improve  the  translator's  work 
wherever  he  or  she  can.  Issa  was,  in  many  ways  a  genius.  Yet,  he  may 
often  be  improved.  The  translator,  who  is  less  talented,  surely  may  be 
bettered.  So,  when  you  can  do  it,  do  it!  Why  not? 


oni  wa  uchifuku  o  ba  soto  e  dasu  to  mo  toshi  hitotsu  zutsu  yorasezu  mo  gana  yuchoro  16c 
devil-as4  strike=>within  happiness-outside  putout  even  year  one-by-one  approach  do-not  wish 

New  Year's  Eve 


If  it  would  keep  the  years  meant  for  me  from  ever  getting  here, 
I  'd  invite  the  Devil  in  and  kick  Good  Luck  out  on  her  ear!! 


Could  it  but  keep  Could  it  but  keep 

one  year  from  being  added  one  year  from  being  added 

to  my  own,  I  would  to  mine,  by  my  troth 

Welcome  the  bad  &  chuck  I'd  call  in  the  bad  spirits 

good  luck  from  my  home!  &  the  good  I'd  send  off! 

Vene  mal,  sale  bene? 

Could  it  prevent  Could  it  keep  them 

one  year  meant  for  me  from  getting  here,  year 

from  getting  here,  after  blessed  year, 

I'd  have  the  demons  stay  I'd  have  the  demons  stay 

&  send  happiness  away!  &  send  happiness  away! 


itsu  mite  mo  sate  owakai  to  kuchiguchi  ni  homeso  ya  saruru  toshi  zo  kuyashiki  akera  kanko 
when  see  ever  hey  hon+young  so  mouthsmouths-on  praise  leaving  year/s  regretful  d.  1800 


Hearing  them  say,  "You  look  young  as  ever!"  compounds  my  regret 
At  giving  up  another  year  for  a  new  one,  older  yet! 

itsu  mite  mo  sate  owakai  to  ware  wa  oi 
(new  years  eve) 

Hearing  them  say, 
"You  look  young  as  ever!" 
I  feel  old  today 

A  singular  leaving  year  that  provides  the  setting  and  general  years  (plural) 
that  justify  the  regret  cannot  be  translated  as  one  in  English.  It  requires 
either  a  creative  reading  between  the  lines  that  is  far  more  complex  than 
the  original,  or  a  shortened,  senryu  version  dropping  the  "leaving." 

fit  Utt^xM^U^K  Jctk^k 

yuku-toshi  wa  doko  de  jijii  o  okizari  ni  issa  I820's 
go/leaving-year/s-as-for  where-at  geezer+acc.  abandoning 


The  leaving  year  The  years  go  on  - 

so  where  will  this  geezer  when  and  where  will  they 

be  dropped  off?  leave  this  geezer? 

This  has  long  been  a  favorite  year's  end  ku,  though  it  is  hard  to  make 
sense  of  without  thinking  of  the  toshi  as  plural,  though  such  does  not  seem 
haiku.  So,  think  of  it  as  a  kyoku,  a  short  kyoka.  I  do.  And,  having 
misplaced  his  older  translations  of  that  poem,  I  had  to  look  it  up  the 
original  in  the  vol.1  of  Issa's  All-works  (issa  zenshu)  and,  as  always,  such 
snooping  around  brought  a  new  discovery,  a  poem  missed  before. 

wan  to  ie  saa  ie  inu  mo  toshinokure  issa  1820's 
"wan  (bark)"  say!  come  on,  say!  dog  too  year-end/beg 

New  Year 's  Eve 
For  Rover,  too:  say  "Ruff! 
You  '11  get  enough 


Like  kyoka,  kyoku  may  not  translate.  Here,  the  wit  is  in  the  pun  of  kure, 
the  year's  "end  =  gimme.  "  We  saw  the  same  in  a  departing  spring  kyoka. 


199 


One  2-page  Winter  chapter  in  the  740-page  Monster  was  titled,  "Three 
Takes  on  Snow:  Dick,  Swellfish  &  Fools!"  This  is  the  first  page  as-is: 

Lost  to  this  world,  Lost  to  this  world, 

I  feel  my  own  body  I  feel  my  own  body 

is  no  longer  me  is  no  longer  me 

But  on  days  when  it  snows  But  on  days  my  dick  rises 

I  find  I  still  get  cold!  I  find  I  still  wanna  do  it! 

saigyo  (1110-90)  gennai  (1728-80) 

sutehatete  mi  wa  naki  mono  to  omoedomo  yuki  no  furu  hi  wa  samuku  koso  are 
sutehatete  mi  wa  naki  mono  to  omoedomo  mara  no  tatsu  hi  wa  shitaku  koso  are 

I  like  to  think  I  like  to  think 

the  world  &  I  no  longer  the  world  &  I  no  longer 

hang  together  hang  together 

But  when  it  snows,  I  feel  But  when  my  dick  rises 

ev  'ry  bit  as  cold  as  ever!  to  the  occasion,  so  would  I! 

The  waka  by  Saigyo  is  included  in  some  kyoka  anthologies  and  played  with  by 
the  encyclopedist  Hiraga  Gennai  (1728-1779)  in  his  Biographies  of  Limp  Dicks  in 
Seclusion  (SlllR3ll'PI  Naemara  in'itsu  den  1768).  The  above  is  followed  by  a 
warning  to  always  'shoot  your  wad'  lest  you  get  gonorrhea  and  really  come  to 
hate  the  world.  Gennai  was  nothing  if  not  au  courant.  Such  clap-catching 
scenarios  were  common  to  senryu  of  the  time  (see  the  Menses  chapter  of  my 
Octopussy).  The  way  the  well-known  waka  is  minimally  altered  -  compare  and 
you  will  see  he  does  much  better  than  me  -  reminds  us  of  the  most  translated 
poet  in  this  book,  the  mad  poem  master  Ota  Nanpo  (Yomo  no  Akara,  Shoku- 
sanjin  1749-1823),  who,  as  it  turns  out,  some  credit  Gennai  with  discovering! 
The  Biographies,  which  starts  with  a  children's  ditty  M. — f§0  advising  us, 

If  you  're  really  gonna  do  it, 

Then  big  is  how  you  oughta; 
Stick  it  up  the  buttocks 

Of  the  Great  Buddha  at  Nara! 

Mffi**  mm±mm.  ^mm^  mmmmmm 

sum  nara  Ski  na  koto  shiyare,  nara  no  daibutsu  no  ketsu  shiyare  -  trans.  Marceau 

-  may  be  found,  in  lively  translation  by  Lawrence  E.  Marceau,  in  an  episodic 
festschrift  for  Howard  Hibbett  published  by  John  Solt's  Highmoonoon  Press 
(2001).  Maybe  we  oughta  call  the  above  a  mad  ditty,  £E|§  kyoyo!  (X  ffilUft  ? ) 


200 


The  last  page  (in  size  1 1  font)  barely  made  it  out  of  the  Monster  and  into 
this  selection.  It  is  here  to  make  several  points.  First,  we  can  ponder 
whether  or  not  a  parody,  which  may  be  considered  a  kyoka,  is  by  virtue  of 
playing  upon  a  classic  Winter  poem,  partly  a  winter  poem  itself.  If  one 
thinks  of  Saigyo  as  an  old  monk,  the  season  becomes  his  life.  Second,  the 
children's  ditty  (that  seems  to  be  8-5-8-5  song  for  actually  singing) 
reminds  us  of  the  folk  roots  of  the  hyperbolic  and  bawdy  kyoka.  And,  third 

-  though  you  really  need  to  read  the  whole  work  to  see  it  -  the  loose  yet 
stimulating  associations  of  prose  and  poem  both  reflect  an  older  tradition 
of  mad  writing  (esp.  haiburi)  and  mad  poetry  and  influence  the  new,  in  so 
far  that  Gennai  was  read  by  Shokusanjin  -  he  was  -  and  other  Tenmei 
poets.  Mad  poems  were  always  found  in  comic  stories,  but  this  sort  of 
mock-serious  essay,  similar  in  some  ways  to  Twain's  Mammoth  Cod  (on 
the  drawbacks  of  being  well-hung)  and  1601  (on  farts),  but  more  erudite 
for  the  way  that  philosophy  and  major  figures  of  literature  are  treated, 
itself  demonstrates  the  hyperlogical  -  mad  from  allowing  reason  to  be  free 

-  nature  of  the  best  kyoka.  And,  finally,  the  pitiful  male  object  provides 
balance  for  Getsudokan's  stinky  female  "beans"  (pg.  96). 


sazare-ishi  no  iwao  to  narite  ke  ga  haete  sore  o  shiraga  ni  miyoshino  no  haru  getsudoken 
pebble's  boulder-into  becomng,  hair  grows/wn  that  white-hair-as  hon.+yoshino's  spring  c.  1700 

II^^{i?.iil^<  5  b  X 
~  Asked  by  Naokiyo  for  something  on  Spring  at  Year's  End  ~ 

The  little  pebble  became  boulder  and  grew  into  a  hairy  thing, 
That  has  become  white-crowned  mi-Yoshino  in  the  Spring! 

Yoshino,  the  hills  not  far  from  Kyoto  famed  for  (cherry)  blossom-viewing, 
tended  to  have  snow  at  New  Year,  but  the  preface  here  made  it  clear  that 
this  was  an  early  solar  spring.  As  Japanese  do  not  have  an  Old  Man 
Winter,  it  was  surprising  to  find  moss  called  "hair"  to  get  us  there.  The  mi 
is  an  honorific  prefix  used  so  often  with  Yoshino  that  your  translator 
decided  just  this  once  to  carry  it  as-is  into  English. 


P .  Re.:  Unmarked  Snow.  -  Kesa  no  yuki  ni  waga  ato  .  .  .  Since  the  first-person 
possessive  (waga  my)  can  be  read  as  the  third-person,  much  as  the  English  "your" 
can  include  the  speaker's,  the  odd  lack  of  marks  making  it  seem  like  the  protagonist 
flew  may  have  a  nonsensical  solution  if  the  poem  is  taken  as  a  riddle.  As  mentioned 
in  explaining  Shokusanjin's  poem,  dog,  inu,  is  homophonic  for  not  existing.  What  if 
the  protagonist  were  a  dog? 


Mad  Exchanges:  Dandelions  &  40  year-old  Chickadee 

m  m  m  it  ft  73  mm  m  m  m  %  si  #  m  ¥  tr  jj  mm 

hoshira  no  hige  no  sorikui  uma  tsunagi  itaku  na  hiki  so  hoshi  wa  nakamu  mys  #  3846 
(bonzes'  beards'  shaving/en  post/s  horse/s  tie/hitch  painful/emph.  not-pull!) 


A  Laugh  at  the  Bonzes'  Expense 

Stubble  that  could, 
for  hitching  posts  vie  - 
Don 't  tug  so  hard,  ponies, 
the  bonzes  will  cry! 


The  Bonzes'  Choice  Reply 

Go  ahead  and  laugh,  you  asses! 
When  the  reeve  takes  your  taxes, 
by  and  by,  it  will  instead 
be  your  turn  to  cry! 

dan-ochi  ya  shikamo  na  ii  so  sato-osa  ga  etsuki  hataraba  imashi  mo  nakamu 
parishioners!  say  not  reeve-the  tax/tithe  impose-if  you  too  cry  will  manydshu  #3847 


The  first  poem,  following  two  roasting  men  for  being  too  black  or  too 
white  (skin  color),  is,  like  the  mining  of  vermilion  from  a  man's  red  nose 
or  the  offer  to  mow  a  man's  underarms,  a  good  example  of  a  Manydshu- 
style  (8c)  creative  hyperbolic  insult.  The  response  implies  forced  tithing 
and,  perhaps,  that  the  monks  were  too  busy  making  a  living  to  devote  time 
to  grooming,  or  could  not  afford  the  proper  tools.  The  translation  failed  to 
achieve  the  desired  symmetry,  so  here  is  a  new  sort  of  rhyme  that  does: 


Monks  Who  Could  Shave  More 

Stubble  that  with  hitching  posts  could  double! 
Try,  ponies,  not  to  pull,  lest  the  bonzes  cry. 

The  Bonzes'  Hair-raising  Retort 

Dear  parishioners,  hush,  lest  your  reeve  should  hear 
Your  words,  &  raising  taxes,  make  you  cry  more! 


Who  knows  what  to  call  a  first-and-last-word-in-a-line  that  rhyme?  Not 
your  translator!  The  first  poem  is  clearly  in  the  comic  kyoka  mode  and  the 
second,  while  not  as  clever  is  telling  and  answers  tears  with  tears. 


Z(Dm(DfjfrM3jULMtf)$]l^^£ltt&(DMmys  #3858 
kono  koro  no  waga  koi-jikara  shirushi .  .  ., 
these  days'  my  love-power 

If  I  were  to  make  a  list  of  all  the  thankless  things  I've  done  for  love 

And  submit  it,  I  would  win  the  Fifth  Rank,  or  above! 

Vs. 

And  if  my  efforts  for  the  same  bring  no  loving  reward  from  you 

I  am  off for  the  Capital,  and  see  if  I  don 't  sue! 

r  (D m<D fr> j&  h fMjIlS f  £ ffi "C TfT^tf  mys  #3859 
fa?«o  &oro  no  waga  koi-jikara  tabarazu  .  .  . 
these  days'  my  love-power 

This  competing  pair  of  poems  -  in  the  original,  beginning  identically  and 
sharing  the  expression  "love-energy/power/effort"  Mfl  koijikara  -  are  in 
the  Manydshu's  comic  book  16.  While  less  novel  than  some  Manyoshu 
love  poems  or  cruel  kidding  poems,  they  are  closer  in  spirit  to  folksong 
and  light  in  the  manner  of  most  kyoka.  One  recalls  the  classic  country 
number  where  the  singer  imagines  a  statue  of  himself  with  a  gilded  tear- 
drop rolling  from  one  eye  erected  at  the  Country  Music  Hall  of  Pain. 

Both  of  the  above  pairs  of  poems  seem  ancient  relics  next  to  the  poor  wet- 
nurse  exchange  between  scholar  spouses  Oe  no  Masahira  no  Ason  and 
Akazome  Emon  from  the  1086  Goshuishu,  rescued  from  obscurity  by 
Edwin  Cranston  {Waka  vol.  2A  (pg  552)).  Had  this  chapter  preceded  the 
Maledicta  chapter,  the  exchange  would  be  here  rather  than  on  pages  141-3. 

kore  hodo  wa  uchitaekeru  ni  tanpopo  o  tamawarite  kuu  shitatsutsumi  kana  ng  1636 
this  amount-as4  exhaust=drum-attenuatingstop!  dandelion+acc  receiving-eat  tongue-drum! 

J>  Read  when  someone  received  dandelions  from  someone  J> 

Dandy,  indeed!  Your  dandelions'  pride,  decimated  just  for  me! 
I  humbly  accept  your  gift  and  lick  my  chops  ferociously. 

♦         ♦         ♦         P  The  Reply  J>      ♦       ♦  ♦ 

My  pride  is  bigger  than  you  think;  don 't  worry,  the  number  sent 
'Tis  but  a  small  part,  there  will  be  more  dandelions  to  present! 

tanpopo  o  to  tantan  to  wayari  mo  se  de  chichi  'chi  'tto  zo  okuri  koso  sure  ng  1636 
dandelion+acc  much=drumming-mimesis  send-not  so  a-bit=tapping-mimesis+emph  do/send 


203 


Exchanges  accompanying  gifts  may  well  comprise  the  lion's  share  of  old 
kyoka,  despite  being  poorly  represented  in  books.  As  a  guitar  gives  one  an 
excuse  to  sing,  a  gift  elicited  poems  from  people  who  otherwise  might 
refrain  from  writing.  Usually,  poem  #1  is  sent  with  a  gift  eliciting  poem  #2, 
a  reply  poem.  It  seemed  odd  to  start  with  thanks,  so  the  editor  of  a  1666 
anthology  dropped  the  preface  and,  reversing  the  order,  had  the  reply  sent 
w/  the  gift-  in  Japanese,  there  are  no  great  cats:  dandelions  =  tanpopo  are 
percussive.  Tan-tan-to  (tan  to  =  many)  sounds  like  a  small  drum-beat  and 
chichi' chi-to  (a  bit)  like  tapping  the  rim,  not  to  mention  beating/clicking 
(uchi)  tongues  and  a  possible  enjambed  hayari  chorus.  Hence,  it  is  also 
called  tsutsumi-gusa,  or  "tomtom-grass."  The  original  order  seems  better. 
Otherwise,  a  different  reading  would  be  in  order, 

Couldn 't  find  enough  of  these  dandy  lion  teeth,  but  bit  by  bit 
I'll  send  you  more  as  I  pull  them,  until  you  tell  me  "Quit!" 

♦  ♦  ♦  ♦  ♦ 

Not  to  worry!  I  will  cook,  chew  &  swallow,  then  when  done 
With  happy  scalded  tongue,  lick  my  lips  for  ev  'ry  last  one! 

When  you  read  between  the  lines,  there  is  that  much  difference  (minus  my 
many  obviously  added  details  and  interpretation),  depending  on  the  order 
of  the  poems!  That  both  may  be  read  from  the  same  words  in  Japanese 
tells  us  something  about  the  language. 


marukareya  tada  marukareya  hitogokoro 
kado  no  aru  ni  wa  mono  no  kakani  ni 


maruku  to  mo  hitokado  areya  hitogokoro 
amah  maroki  wa  korobi  yasuki  ni 


The  Chamber  Maid 

o      =  tr*  o 


The  Captious  Man 


Round  we  must  be, 
just  as  round  as  possibly! 

The  human  heart 

If  it  came  w/  corners 
would  catch  on  things 


Round  though  we 
may  be,  let  some  corner  be! 

The  human  heart 

Were  it  overly  round 
would  tumble  too  easily 


corners  had-if  things-on  catch-would  <f>  round-if  just-round-if  human-heart/s  <=>  too  round-if  tumble  easily 


Chikusai,  the  famous  early- 17c  fictional  quack  doctor  and  professor  of 
mad  poems  of  uncertain  authorship,  is  credited  with  this  exchange,  where 
the  second  does  not  so  much  refute  the  first  as  provide  an  additional, 
equally  astute  observation  on  geometrical  psychology.  Together,  they 


204 


comprise  a  lecture  of  soft  philosophy.  Shokusanjin  would  later  garnish  "a 
picture  of  a  female  geisha  (performer)  ^c^#co|k"  with  a  corollary: 


Curved  soles  are  fine,  but  keep  a  corner  clean: 
Pony  geta  too  round  tumble  too  easily,  I  mean 

maruku  to  mo  hito-kado  are  na  komageta  no  amari  maroki  wa  korobi  yasuki  ni  shokusanjin 
round  even  one  corner  be-let!  pony-geta  too  round-as-for  tumble  easier  though 

Round  they  are  but  there  is  a  corner  still  on  pony  geta 
Were  they  rounder  yet  she  'd  roll  over  even  bettal 

In  the  original,  Shokusanjin  only  alters  the  second  poem  from  the  Chikusai 
book  by  a  few  words  in  the  middle,  the  "human  heart"  is  changed  to  the 
beveled-front  pony-geta  worn  by  dancers  whose  tumbling  was  often 
deliberate,  i.e.,  sleeping  with  a  customer.  The  second  reading  assumes  that 
the  amari,  or  "too/excessive"  in  the  vernacular  was  also  used  as  an 
intensifier  meaning  "very,"  and  that  this  reading  was  also  intended. 
Shokusanjin  wrote  many  round/square  poems,  part  of  a  "Praising  Square 
Picture"  US  (D  &  ft  series,  the  best  of  which  should  be  a  saying:  "This 
is  what  I  wish  for  the  hearts/minds  of  all  men!  /  A  coin  with  a  hole,  round 
outside  &  square  within"  (IS»ft  &&A<D>bb  ~b&t£&<Z>K33iiX1it%<  5 
h  fUS^j  \Z.    Hj|Ii kore  o  hito  no  kokoro  to  .  . .). 


kata-fuchi  ni  mi  o  nagen  to  wa  omoedomo 
gulch-into  body+acc  throw-would-as4  think  but 

sasuga  inochi  no  oshiki  naruran 
what/why  life's  dear  becomes+exclam 


mi  o  sutete  shokoku  o  meguru  shugyo  ja  no 
body/self+acc  various  countries+acc  circle  training 

nani  ni  inochi  no  oshiki  naruran 
what/why  life's  dear  becomes+exclam 


W  f  r  ft  I'liti  by  Monk  Saigyo 

/  think  I'll  just 
throw  myself  into  a  deep 
bend  of  the  river 

No,  life  is  just  too  dear 
for  me  to  let  it  end! 


ft  by  a  Woman 

You  who  left 
yourself  behind  traveling 
for  discipline 

Why  whine  that  'life 's 
too  dear  to  let  it  end'? 


About  Saigyo,  Carter  writes,  "his  consistent  adoption  of  this  guise  of  the 
reluctant  recluse  who  has  left  the  world  but  still  finds  himself  drawn  by  it 
can  be  seen  as  one  of  Saigyo's  major  artistic  accomplishments."  This  pair 
of  kyoka  in  Kasanu  Soshi  (^^^Sfet^lft  tk2)  brings  out  this  contradiction 
and  pokes  fun  at  it.  Like  the  Chikusai  poems,  it  is  probably  I7c. 


205 


itto  nomu  hito  dani  aru  o  sakazuki  no  saho  mo  shiranu  geko  no  tsutanasa  bussai  17c  0  ^MflMs 
one  to(4.8  US  gals)  drinks/ing  person/s  even  is/are  !/while  etiquette  even  knows-not  teetotaler's'  clumsiness 

To  think  there  are  Gallants  who  polish  off  kegs  every  night, 
While  totally  clueless  Teetotalers  cannot  get  one  cup  right! 


#1 


The  wages  of  wine  are  a  mistaken  life  -  especially  hideous 
For  those  who,  drinking,  pity  us,  know  not  they  are  piteous! 

one/whole  life+acc.  mistake/ing  sake/wine's  side-effect+emph.-as-for  knowing-not  likes  person+emph.  pitiful 
issho  o  ayamaru  sake  no  toga  zo  to  wa  shir  a  de  konomeru  hito  zo  hakanaki  nakarai  bokuyo  17c  Ir] 

-  £  %  m  z  m  <d  t      t  a  ^^-cufeSAf  « a>  &  £  h  #  ^ 

Tsutanasa  means  social  clumbsiness  to  the  extent  of  being  wretched  and 
hakanaki,  vain  in  the  sense  of  being  hopelessly  short-lived.  The  above  and 
what  follows  is  a  good  part  of  the  double  chapters  A  Mad  Dissing  Debate: 
Drinker  vs.  Teetotaler  _h  and  T  in  the  740-page  monster.  It  was  netted 
from  a  "drink  culture"  website  while  googling  the  physician-poet  Bokuyo 
(1607-78).  Infuriated  at  another  poet,  Bussai's  10-point  counting-song  Wtx. 
W\  attack  on  teetotalers,  he  retaliated  point  by  point  against  heavy-drinkers. 
The  originals  are  more  similar  than  the  translations  as  all  start  with  the 
numbers  1-10,  respectively,  and  end  in  adjectives.     Here  is  #3: 

sansan-no-ku-do  no  katame  no  hajimari  wa  kamiyo  mo  ima  mo  sake  ni  koso  are 
three-three's  nine  times'  hardening's  start-as-for  gods'  age  and  now  wine-in  esp.  is 

Thrice  thrice  makes  nine,  man  &  woman  bound  by  a  vine  — 
From  the  Age  of  the  Gods  to  ours  today  all  begins  with  wine. 


#3 


Those  who  chew  out  those  of  us  who  choose  not  to  drink  — 
Drunken  by  their  own  brew  end  up  bums  too  drunk  to  think! 

horribly  abstainers+acc  scold  drinker/s-as-for  wine-by  drunken  end-up  lives 

sanzan  ni  geko  o  shikarera  sakenomi  wa  sake  ni  nomarete  hatasu  minoue 

The  marriage  ceremony  with  its  3x  exchange  of  drinks,  sando-shiki, 
recapitulates  the  mythic  quickening  of  the  nation.  Three  is  the  Taoist 
foundation.  Vine  is  obviously  out  of  place  for  a  rice-wine  culture.  Mea 
culpa,  mea  culpa,  mea  culpa!  Bokuyo  uses  the  H  character  where  it  is 
usually  not  used,  for  an  adverb  meaning  thoroughly,  and  appeals  to  a 
proverb  about  how  drink  comes  to  drink  us  for  his  feisty  rebuttal.  And  #4: 


mm®.  @  m&ft  if  t     if  h       e$ s  if 

shikai  nami  medetai  nado  to  utaedomo  fukichi  ni  miyuru  geko  no  kaotsuki  bussai 
4-seas  waves  cheerful/hurrah  etc  singing  but,  unlucky-as  appear  teettlr's  face-expression 

We  sing  Four  Seas,  to  celebrate  waves  meeting  at  our  place 

What  bad  luck  to  have  to  see  a  teetotaler's  lonely  face! 
 #4  

The  upright  man,  even  his  good  character  floating  in  a  cup 
reflects  the  ugliness  of  not  knowing  when  enough  is  enough. 

E^S^tSA^^t^  iRl^ M  fr>&A(D MB  bokuyo 
shikarnbeki  sono  hitogara  mo  sakazuki  ni  mukaeba  kawaru  hito  no  omokage 
proper  that  personal-character  even  sakecup-to  face-when  changes  person's  face 

In  #4,  Bussai  replaces  the  p  character  in  geko  TP5  teetotaler  (lit.  low- 
gate)  with  BE,  meaning  solitary  or  lonesome.  Bussai's  #5,  which  we  shall 
skip,  kids  about  how  just  a  sip  on  the  five  main  festivals  leaves  geko  pale 
and  faint.  While  Japanese  who  drink  little  for  philosophical  (Confucian 
sobriety)  or  health  (alcoholism)  reasons  could  be  called  geko,  so  could 
those  who  refrained  because  of  the  alcohol  intolerance  that,  to  varying 
degrees,  afflicts  almost  half  of  Japanese.  They  were  indeed  pitiful  in  a 
society  where  drink  was  socially  de  rigor.  We  can  imagine  poem  #5 
infuriated  Bokuyo,  who,  as  a  doctor,  knew  only  too  well  how  hard  it  was 
on  the  weak.  Here  is  his  retaliatory  #5,  followed  by  Bussai's  telling  #6: 

lil  t  \t  P  KW^  b*m  L  £  &  QfyfrtoftMi&ofi  £  h  * 

go-muri  to  wa  kuchi  ni  iedo  ureshisa  o  tsutsnmikaneta  iji  no  kitanasa  bokuyo 
honorific(you)/5-as4  mouth-by  say-but  glee  cram-in-cannot  pushiness'  dirtiness 

They  may  say,  "Please  do  not  overdo  it! "  But  filthy  Glee 
is  what  we  see  when  drinkers  push  drinks  on  you  and  me! 


They  make  everything  so  damn  difficult,  then,  most  turn  tail 
on  us  drinkers,  those  stinkers,  non-drinkers '  brains  are  stale! 

difficultly  twisting-returning,  heavy-drinkers-to  rear+acc  show  teetotalers!  many 
muzukashiku  nejikaeritaru  jogo  ni  wa  ushiro  o  misetaru  geko  zo  okaru  bussai 

Stinkers  and  stale  brains  may  exceed  the  limit  of  poetic  license,  no 
comments  are  needed  for  either  of  the  above.  Bokuyo's  response  to  #6 
points  out  that  most  good-for-nothings  are  punch-drunk;  they  got  that  way 
beating  themselves  with  too  many  stiff  ones.  At'^^Ai  %^^X\i.ttj\z. 
M~£"-^f$:  5^fc  <*T>#  £  =fc  rokudenaki  hito  to  .  .  .  Plainer  than  my  metaphor, 
most  of  the  wit  is  in  the  initial  pun  incorporating  the  number  six  -  Issa's 


207 


later  use  of  the  same  rokudenashi  good-for-nothing  to  describe  himself  in 
a  properly  self-deprecatory  yet  comic  fashion  on  his  sixtieth  birthday  {i.e., 
New  Year's)  is  better.  Without  the  puns  both  are  not  worth  translating. 

jubun  no  ue  ni  mo  sake  wa  nome  mo  sen  mochi  no  sugitaru  ato  wa  shokusho  bussai 
enough  beyond  even  sake-as4  drink  even  do-would  sweetrice  surpassing  after  as4  cloy 

Feeling  full,  we  cannot  drink  more  when  it  comes  our  turn; 
But  after  over  eating  sweet  rice  cake,  look  out  heart  bum! 

Having  had  enough,  a  drinker  would  drink  more  sake  yet; 
With  sweet-rice  cake,  overeat  and  sick  of  it  is  all  we  get! 
 #10  

Drinking  until  full,  and  then  some,  decimates  a  man  inside; 
Done  over  and  over,  it  leaves  you  no  body  in  which  to  hide! 

enuf  beyond  evn  aftr  continue  ske-drinkng-as4  oft  repeatd-if  aftr-as4  internal-damage 

jubun  no  ue  ni  ato  hiku  sakenomi  wa  do  kasanareba  ato  wa  naison  bokuyo 


My  first  reading  of  "food-wounds"  in  Bussai's  poem  was  heart-burn,  but 
checking  the  OJD  found  it  was  getting  cloyed  or  tired  of  something,  in 
which  case,  the  ambiguous  nome  mo  sen  had  to  be  positive  (drinking-do- 
would)  rather  than  negative.  Note  that  the  web-site  with  the  debate 
wrongly  -  but,  all  too  typically  -  assumed  these  17c  poets  were  Shoku- 
sanjin's  contemporaries,  thus  crediting  Tenmei  (late-18c)  kyoka  for  it. 


5^fsr#c  r  £  k  &  5 

kamigami  wa  izumo  no  kuni  e  yoru  to  kiku 
binbogami  baka  naze  koko  ni  oru  edo3 

Lazy  Bones  Complains 


sake  wa  nomu  bakuchi  wa  kokushi  asane 
-suru  shikata  nakereba  teijit  ni  suru 

£  £  #  (D  #  ^  X 
God  Poverty  Explains 


With  all  the  gods 
gathering  in  Izumo, 
or,  so  they  say, 

What  I  do  not  know  is  why 
Poverty 's  still  here,  today! 


I  drink  my  wine 
gamble  away  what's  mine, 
and  sleep  till  noon. 

Tell  me,  does  it  look  like 
I  can  afford  to  leave  soon? 


208 


A  gloss  of  this  netted  pair  of  doka,  or  didactic  kyoka,  probably  18- 19c  Edo, 
was  not  needed  as,  aside  from  the  rhymes  (today/soon),  the  translations 
closely  match  the  original.  While  the  idea  of  responding  to  the  anomaly  of 
the  God  remaining  in  town  in  Gods-gone  Month  is  clever,  the  poem  insults 
the  all  hard-working  paupers.  Of  course,  there  are  the  lazy,  spoiled  and 
rotten  poor,  but  because  successful  creators  (and  those  who  steal  from  them) 
tend  to  become  wealthy,  wealth  is  credited,  ipso  facto  for  everything,  and 
few  realize  that  not  only  labor  is  done  by  the  poor  but  most  creative  work. 


ffl+^bli&V^^-^A^  (Clft6  ^5^^5j1^«9^V^  Rokubeetc. 
Youth:  shijukara  wa  oi  no  naka  ni  zo  irinikeri  •  Old  man:  wakasa  ni  kaeru  michi  ga  shiritai 
chickadee-as-for  (travel)casket-within+emph.  went  •  wakasa-to  return  road-the  know-want 
forty-as-for  old-age-within+emph  entered  •  youthfulness-to  return  road/way-the  know-want 


Young  man  to  old  pilgrim 

A  chickadee 
has  gone  into  your 
travel  casket 

Old  pilgrim  to  young  man 

So,  please  let  me  ask  it, 
The  way  back  to  Wakasa! 


Young  man  to  old  pilgrim 

From  age  forty 
Sir,  you  're  on  the  road 
to  being  old 

Old  pilgrim  to  young  man 

If  so,  I  shall  be  so  bold 
To  ask  the  way  back  to  youth! 


In  Japanese,  one  reading  suffices.  Unless  the  target  language  has  a  pun 
with  a  matching  story,  a  composite  reading  is  the  best  that  can  be  hoped 
for.  Hiroaki  Sato,  who  gives  only  the  left-hand  reading,  called  it  one  of 
"two  episodes  showing  how  renga  in  its  pristine  form  may  have  been 
composed."  {One  Hundred  Frogs:  1983)  He  takes  it  from  link- verse 
scholar  Fukui  Kyuzo  (1867-1951),  who  heard  it  from  his  mother.  To  sum, 
the  youth  saw  the  old  man  stopped  at  a  fork  in  the  road  and,  noting  what 
the  chickadee  did,  "gave  it  a  moment's  thought,  then  looked  quite  pleased 
with  himself.  He  said  to  himself,  'Isn't  this  fun!'  and  loudly  to  the 
pilgrim:  "A  chickadee  has  gone  into  the  travel  casket".  .  ."  Then,  the 
pilgrim,  pretending  to  refuse  to  cap  the  verse,  asked  "I'd  like  to  know  the 
road  to  Wakasa. "  "At  this,  the  young  man  clapped  his  hands  and 
delightedly  exclaimed,  'That's  it!  That's  it!  Now  we  have  a  wonderful 
renga!'  "  Sato's  prose  translation  is  beautiful,  but  his  reading  of  the  poem 
-  "the  young  man,  presumes  that  the  sight  of  a  chickadee  going  into  a 
travel  casket  fuels  the  desire  to  go  home"  -  does  not  warrant  that  young 
man's  excitement.  How  did  Sato  miss  it?  He  also  writes  "The  relative 


independence  of  each  part  is  vital  because  in  linked  poetry  the  sense  of 
linking  must  be  maintained  and  that  is  greatly  enhanced  by  the  element  of 
unexpectedness  in  transition, "  and  that  "the  pilgrim 's  response  is 
accidental.  "  Was  Sato  so  intent  on  the  anticipated  surreal  disjunction  that 
he  missed  the  obvious  puns?  There  was  a  tell-tale  speed-bump  that  should 
have  slowed  him  down.  The  pilgrim's  home-town  was  not  Wakasa,  but 
Obama.  Wakasa  may  be  on  the  way  to  Obama,  but  there  is  no  reason  for 
a  second  name  to  be  brought  into  the  poem  if  not  for  the  pun. 

Puns  on  the  name  of  the  bird  and  town  both  go  back  hundreds  of  years  and 
a  pun  on  the  latter  is  even  attributed,  possibly  falsely,  to  Izumi  Shikibu 
(c.970-1030).  It  is  hard  to  say  when  the  poem  was  first  composed  but  it  is 
found  in  various  versions  embedded  in  various  narratives  -  some  have  the 
one  poet  giving  both  parts  of  the  poem,  neither  deliberately,  but  rather 
found  by  the  listener  -  so  chances  are  it  goes  back  at  least  to  the  early- 16c 
hey-day  of  popular  stories  called  kanazoshi,  as  they  often  had  poems 
embedded.  Sato  thought  of  it  as  a  prototype  for  "pristine"  link-verse 
(haikai-no-renga).  Perhaps.  But,  it  is  so  clearly  comic  that  I  prefer  to 
consider  it  a  sort  of  capped  kyoka,  though  this  is  not  a  form  that  anyone,  to 
my  knowledge,  has  ever  recognized.  There  are  clearly  dated  examples  of 
the  same  to  be  found  in  Cranston's  waka  anthologies.  My  favorite: 


sayo  fukete  ima  wa  nebutaki  narinikeri  +  yume  ni  aubeki  hiyo  ya  matsuran  emperor  murakami 
small-night  deepening  now-as-for  tired  become/became  +dream-in  meet-ought  person/s  waiting!  sis  #  1 1 83 


"She"  is  the  "Shigeno  handmaid."  The  two-person,  i.e.  capped,  poem  is 
one  in  an  extraordinary  Shuishu  (c.1005)  mini-chapter  with  six  tan-renga, 
or  "short-linked  verses,"  all  introduced  and  translated  by  Edwin  Cranston 
(Waka  Anthology  v2a).  The  drowsiness  and  the  entire  reply  on  the  left  are 
borrowed  from  him.  The  Japanese  original  has  no  pronouns  but,  translated, 


The  night  grows 
late,  somehow  drowsiness 
has  found  me: 


It  grows  late 
and  I  fear  We  are  now 
growing  sleepy: 


serving  in  his  presence,  she  offers 


Could  this  be  the  reason  why  - 
Someone 's  waiting  in  a  dream? 


Could  someone  be  waiting 
for  my  Lord  in  his  dreams? 


can  easily  bear  several.  The  first  reading,  after  the  original  and  Cranston, 
keeps  them  to  a  minimum  (just  me),  making  it  possible  to  read  the  poem 
as  a  one-person  opus,  as  it  could  be  in  Japanese  were  the  prefaces  removed 
and  both  parts  united.  The  second  reading  borrows  the  royal  "We"  from 
English  and  lets  the  14-syllabet  cap  differ.  Japanese  once  held  that  people 
in  dreams  appear  by  their  -  not  just  the  dreamer's  -  volition.  The  hand- 
maid went  a  step  further,  supposing  would-be  dream-callers  could  make 
us  tired  when  they  are  kept  waiting!  Cranston  conservatively  calls  it 
"slightly  wittier"  than  the  poem  preceding  it,  another  exchange  where  10c 
Emperor  Murakami  gets  the  cap,  but  unless  an  antecedent  for  the  idea  of 
dream-callers-waiting-bringing-sleepiness  can  be  found,  the  poem,  thanks 
to  the  hand-maiden's  contribution,  is  a  conceptual  masterpiece,  and 
deserves  to  be  famous  ("deserves  to  be"  because  it  is  not).  And  it  is  followed 
by  another  (SIS  #1184)  more  clever  if  less  conceptually  interesting 
exchange  dating  to  the  reign  (833-50)  of  Ninmyo  hundred  years  earlier.  I 
was  tempted  to  introduce  it  in  full,  but  the  animal-hours  and  the  punning 
requires  a  considerable  introduction  and  I  have  borrowed  enough  from 
Cranston.  Let  me  just  say  it  was  included  in  the  Tales  ofYamato  (tttt^QM 
#  168),  credited  to  Yoshimune  no  Munesada,  soon  monk,  then  Archbishop 
Henjo,  who  famously  fell  on  maiden  flowers  (pg.181),  and  the  complexity 
of  the  puns  foreshadow  those  in  later  kyoka.  When  the  woman  complains 
he  failed  to  meet  her  in  the  hour  of  the  cow,  ushimitsu,  punfully  miserable 
(ushi),  he  replies  he  dozed  off  in  the  hour  of  the  rat,  ne,  homophonous 
with  sleep,  because  he  wanted  a  dream  preview.  The  original  puns  are 
Shakespearean  in  their  artlessness  and  I  must  confess  it  great  fun  to  see 
Cranston's  heroic  efforts  to  save  them.  His  'drat  it  all'  for  the  rodent  is  as 
mad  as  anything  in  this  book  and  suggest  he  is  in  fine  form  for  upcoming 
volumes  which  hopefully  will  include  many  more  wild  waka. 


ttfcfc&ttr. #5  5*101  •  tgib&hMb^&Z    mmyuffi    %>MM  #1180 


ham  wa  moe  aki  wa  kogaruru  kamadoyama  ■  kasami  mo  kiri  mo  keburi  to  zo  miru  motosuke 
spring-as-for  smolders  fall-as-for  burns  oven-mountain  //  mist  and  fog  smoke-as+emph  appear 

Heading  to  Tsukushi,  spending  the  night  at  the  foot  of  Mt  Kamado, 
a  tree  was  found  where  someone  had  long  ago  carved  these  words: 

Smoldering  in  spring,  Smoldering  in  spring 

Charring  dark  in  the  fall,  And  burning  through  the  fall, 

Cookstove  Mountain:  Our  great  Mt  Stove! 


yzM  e.c.  tr. 
Motosuke 


tc$I  r.d.g. 
Motosuke 


Vernal  haze,  autumnal  mist, 
Both  look  like  smoke  from  here. 


Fine  mist  and  fog,  equally 
Look  just  like  smoke  to  me! 


211 


Sei  Shonagon's  father  Kiyohara  Motosuke  (908-990)  was  on  his  way  to 
what  is  now  Kyushu  to  assume  the  governorship  when  this  supposedly 
happened.  Supposedly,  because  Cranston,  whose  translation  is  the  more 
responsible  reading  on  the  left,  points  out  that  another  account  has  it  as  a 
single  poem  by  another  man.  It  makes  much  more  sense  as  dead-cap  link- 
verse  (just  made  up  that  term  for  a  poem  by  a  dead  man  finished  by  a  live 
man).  Cranston  notes  the  "predictable  plays"  on  "budding/burning"  (moe) 
and  "roasting  red"  (kogaruru)  and  opines  that  idea-wise,  Motosuke  in  986, 
"simply  added  smoke."  At  a  risk  of  being  too  obvious,  I  would  call  it 
masterful  buffoonery  for  a  man  in  a  high  position  to  assume  the  persona  of 
a  hayseed,  countering  lyrical  rustic  trope  (the  smoldering  usually  applies 
to  new  shoots  of  delicate  young  herbs  and  the  burning  the  beautiful  maple 
foliage  of  fall)  in  the  17-syllabet  verse  with  a  plain,  'Dunno,  looks-like- 
smoke-to-little-ole-me! "  14-syllabet  verse  that  better  fits  the  name  of  the 
mountain  to  boot.  Evidently,  Sei  Shonagon  didn't  fall  far  from  the  tree. 


fe^fcoffft-t&fcfiB;*:—  •  ^£fco&=ffg;fc:£^<  IW+Wit  648-9 
irogonomi  appare  sonata  wa  nippon  ichi  matsui  ■  hotaru  o  atsume  chiwabumi  o  kaku  ittetsu 
color/eros-liking  hurrah!  you-as-for  japan  one!  •  fireflies+acc.  gathering  bawdy-tales+acc  write 


Bravo  to  you! 
So  gloriously  horny, 

Nippon  Ichi! 

+++++++++++++++++ 

Gath  'ring  fireflies  in  pails 
To  write  your  dirty  tales. 


When  it  comes  to 
being  horny,  you  're  #1 

in  all  Japan 

+++++++++++++++ 

Gath  'ring  those  fireflies 
to  write  your  dirty  tales! 


When  it  comes  to  love 
&  loving  it,  you  're  the  one 

the  primo  of  Japan 

+++++++++++++++ 

Gath  'ring  fireflies  to  write 
dirty  tales  is  quite  a  scam! 


This  is  what  might  be  called  a  found  kyoka,  comprising  two  verses  from 
different  poets  snipped  from  a  16c  haikai  no  renga.  Such  a  link- verse 
sequence  is  an  exchange,  but  more  complex  than  a  cap.  Before  explaining 
why,  a  word  on  fireflies.  They  were  popular  enough  a  theme  to  boast 
multiple  tropes  including  1)  use  by  poor  but  diligent  scholars  for  reading 
in  the  summer  -  as  snow  was  piled  by  the  window  to  reflect  moonlight  in 
the  winter  -  an  idea  from  China,  as  Japanese  were  more  likely  to  make 
such  a  lantern  for  night-crawling,  i.e.,  calling  on  a  lover;  2)  symbolizing 
the  ephemeral,  as  the  light  is  faint,  unsteady  and  soon  gone,  evoking  our 
tenuous  hold  on  life,  or  the  lover  so  wretched  s/he  thinks  of  death;  3)  a 
plaintive  (small  and  in  the  dark)  symbol  of  ardent  longing,  as  burning 
within  was  linked  to  desire  by  the  hi  pun  (hi  in  omohi  and  kohi);  4)  the 
butt  of  jokes,  for  having  lights  on  that  part  of  their  anatomy.  Now,  what 
makes  the  above  sequence  from  a  1675  Osaka  Danrin  school  link-verse 
jam  so  delightfully  mad  is  that  it  replaces  ancient  passion  with  pure 


horniness,  something  inspired  by  a  preceding  7-7  verse  of  brightly 
blushing  young  lovers  coming  together.  The  "you"  refers  to  them  first, 
then,  with  the  7-7,  becomes  he,  for  we  imagine  a  man  writing  dirty  tales 
by  firefly-light  alone.  Well,  not  quite.  My  "dirty  tales"  is  a  reading 
purposely  bent  for  the  pun  on  tail.  Chiwabumi,  properly  written  '-Mtfi^C,  is 
a  letter  that  spells  out  the  desires  of  lovers.  And,  note  how  the  implied 
light  of  the  fireflies  in  the  7-7  verse,  while  making  mad  sense  together 
with  the  previous  5-7-5,  relates  more  directly  to  the  previous  7-7  with 
blushing  lovers.  Because  associations  leap-frogged  in  this  manner  as  a 
rule  in  the  Danrin  school,  it  is  hard  to  harvest  kyoka  from  the  link-verse. 
Only  exceptional  links  such  as  the  above  work,  barely.  So  we  have  a 
paradox.  The  literature  that  may  well  have  the  most  healthy  mad  spirit, 
yields  the  least  easily  harvested  individual  kyoka.  Most  haikai  did  flow 
directly  from  one  stanza  to  another,  but  the  ones  with  more  closely  linked 
associations  generally  had  a  14-syllabet  lead  (mae-ku)  and  a  17  syllabet 
response.  While  kyoka  (and  waka)  are  usually  the  reverse,  that  matters  less 
than  the  nature  of  the  link,  i.e.,  whether  or  not  it  creates  one  31 -syllabet 
poem. 


yamazato  wa  nerarezarikeri  yo  mo  sugara  matsu  fuku  kaze  ni  odorokasarete  "shikibu" 
mountain-town/home-as-for  sleep-cannot  night-through  pine-blowing-wind-by  surprised 

Mountain  hollars!  I  couldn 't  fall  asleep  at  all  last  night 
The  wind  in  the  pines  brought  me  fright  after  fright. 

Shikibu  had  a  child  without  a  father  and  left  it  with  a  guardian  sword  in 
the  Gojo  area.  Years  later,  she  was  enjoying  a  country  outing  and  by 
chance  ended  up  lodging  at  the  house  of  the  commoner  who  had  found 
her  daughter.  The  wind  that  night  was  strong  and  she  composed  the 
above  poem.  A  little  girl  in  the  house  overheard  it  and  asked  if  she  might 
compose  a  reply.  Using  the  parroting  method,  she  recited  - 


yamazato  wa  nenu  to  iedomo  nereba  koso  matsu  fuku  kaze  ni  odorokasarete  JtS^jfir 
mountain-town/home-as-for  sleep-not  (you)  say  but  sleeping-if  pine-blowing-wind-by  surprised 

This  mountain  hollar  kept  you  awake?  Forgive  me  if  I  scoff 
But  to  start  at  the  wind  in  the  pines  one  must  first  doze  off. 

Shikibu  was  impressed  and  asked  what  sort  of  person  she  was.  Hearing 
the  whole  story,  she  knew  without  doubt  that  the  girl  was  her  daughter. 
One  story  has  it  that  she  was  the  one  who  would  later  become  known  as 
Ko-Shikibu,  or  little  Shikibu.  (my  loose  and  slightly  abbreviated  translation) 


213 


This  Edo  period  fictional  exchange  found  in  the  Kyoka  Appreciation 
Dictionary  is,  in  an  odd  way,  convincing.  Shikibu's  supposed  poem  is 
more  boring  than  any  of  her  real  waka  and  she  was  not  stuck-up  like  the 
great  comic  diva  of  the  miscellany  Sei  Shonagon,  so  the  reader  first  thinks 
it  far  from  authentic.  But,  that  does  not  hurt  the  story  at  all,  for  it  helps  set 
up  the  girl's  hyperlogical  reply  which  does  indeed  perfectly  mimic  the 
rationalism  of  Shikibu,  whose  cleverness  was  clearly  appreciated  by  the 
folk,  as  there  are  many  tales  about  her. 


Unlike  the  philosophical  exchanges  that  tend  to  be  translatable  because  of 
the  highly  conceptual  content,  the  ordinary  exchanges  -  exchanges  of  gifts 
and/or  greetings  -  found  in  collections  of  kyoka,  tend  to  be  so  full  of 
word-play  and  short  of  plot  as  to  approach  nonsense.  For  example, 

P  Shigure  kyoka.  The  earliest  clear-cut  kyoka  playing  on  the  expression  "Gods- 
gone-month"  I  know  is  an  ex-change  recorded  in  the  diary  of  Monk  Socho  (d.  1532). 
Both  poems  are  too  punderful  to  re-create,  but  the  here  is  the  gist  of  it:  first, 
Takachika  faWL&M replies  to  Socho's  unrecorded  letter:  tti^jttit© 
Zk<DM<7)  :tt5^frtc<Xfr%}&\Z.\-y]0  0  |S)  kaminazuki  fumi  mo  muyaku 
no  kotonoha  no  somukigatakute  kakitaenikeri  — 

Gods=paper-gone  month,  letters  are  to  no  avail  when  leaves=letters  fail; 
It  is  hard  to  stop,  but  my  writing=persimmon  brush  is  gone. 

God/s  puns  with  paper  (kami),  persimmon  with  writing  (kaki)  -  I  added  "brush,"  though 
unsure  whether  said  variety  (resembling  the  head  of  a  large  brush)  already  existed. 
Then,  Socho  wrote  a  reply  to  the  reply:  ^tmi-^h^L^hW^M  X^-^foh 
fc4^|yM§  kaki-kawasu  koko  mo  kashiko  mo  kami-nazuki  fumi  koso  arame  gobo 
daikon  — 

Drying-persimmons=exchanging-letters,  I,  too,  would  be  pleased  to  write  little 
In  gods=paper-gone  month:  stamping's  for  ruffians,  burdocks  &  big  radishes! 

Fumi  or  letters  may  pun  with  stamping  down  hard  when  pulling  edible  burdock  and 
daikon  radishes.  The  former  was  just  harvested,  but  the  latter  would  grow  and  be 
pulled  by  big  louts  (the  verb  for  "should  not  be,"  arame,  is  homophonous  with  such) 
all  winter.  Socho,  who  has  many  male-color  poems,  may  also  joke  on  what  was  in 
stock  on  the  mountain,  older  men  w/  thick-roots=da ikon"  and  acolytes  w/  thin  ones, 
metaphorically  burdocks  (a  boy  with  a  large  women,  was  said  to  "wash  a  burdock  in 
the  sea").  Note,  too,  that  the  pronunciation  of  the  month,  kaminazuki,  was  in  the 
process  of  turning  to  kannazuki,  thus  killing  the  paper  (kami)  pun.  1  would  guess  such 
ubiquitous  puns  have  played  a  larger  role  in  Japanese  than  rhyme  in  English  to  help 
retain  old  spellings  and  pronunciations  longer  than  they  would  have  otherwise. 

It  should  be  obvious  why  such  an  exchange  had  to  be  relegated  to  the 
notes  of  the  740-page  Monster.  With  the  dandelion  we  saw  in  this  chapter, 
only  the  coincidence  in  the  names  -  both  the  English  and  Japanese 
extremely  interesting  even  if  evocative  of  different  metaphor  -  but  the 


above  persimmons  and  whatnot  would  require  a  total  makeover  to  turn 
into  something  readable  in  translation.  In  order  to  be  able  to  offer  the 
reader,  say,  half-a-dozen  translations  that  are  readable,  it  would  be 
necessary  to  first  find  a  hundreds  of  such  exchanges  and  select  from  them 
for  translatability  rather  than  excellence  in  the  original. 


P  A  Boring  Note.  As  your  translator's  sources  were  almost  entirely  books  of  kyoka 
(or  poems  by  haikai  poets  recognized  as  kyoka  by  the  Broadview  editors),  exchanges 
found  elsewhere  are  under-represented.  Probably,  comic  exchanges  that  are  not 
officially  kyoka  or  found  in  kyoka  anthologies  would  be  less  dense  with  puns  (closer 
to  the  haikai  master  Issa's  kyoka)  and,  hence,  somewhat  easier  to  translate. 

Moreover,  there  are  probably  Edo  era  capped  kyoka,  as  opposed  to  dueling  kyoka,  out 
there,  too.  Unlike  haikai  link-verse  finds,  these  capped  kyoka  would  be  intended  as 
individual  poems.  Most  are  probably  in  stories  of  various  types  which  your  translator 
has  not  yet  had  the  good  fortune  to  find  -  or,  rather,  buy  -  but  he  also  expects  to 
eventually  find  a  cache  of  the  real  thing  produced  when  two  good  kyoka  poets  with 
interest  in  haikai  spend  time  together  or  correspond  frequently.  If  and  when  more 
are  found,  they  may  be  appended  to  this  chapter. 

While  putting  together  this  chapter,  it  became  clear  that  an  entire  book  on  poem 
exchanges  would  be  interesting  to  write,  but  it  could  only  be  done  with  much  more 
research  and  in  the  original  language. 


Chinese-style,  or  Mad  as  a  Rectangle 

Japanese  is  as  bad  for  end-rhyme  as  it  is  good  for  puns.  It  is  not  the 
paucity  of  phonemes  -  Latin  tongues  rhyme  all  the  better  for  it  -  but 
having  all  the  grammatical  indicators  at  the  end  of  the  words  and  the  verb 
with  its  uniform  tenses  at  the  tail  of  the  sentence.  Nonetheless,  some 
Japanese  knew  the  joy  of  crisp  end-rhyme  through  Chinese-style  poems, 
most  commonly  4-line  and  rhymed  AABA,  called  $£W  kyoshi.  The  mad 
Zen  monk  Ikkyu's  are  the  best  known.  The  title  of  the  following  example 
is  "Woman's  Yin"  iclH  and  a  rough  gloss  would  be  "originally  has  mouth 
still  no  words  /  billion  hair  heads  (individuals)  guard  round(nine?) 
pock(scar)  /  all  group  alive  stray  way  place  /  million  various  buddhas 
leave  body  gate). " 

gan  rai  yu  ko  ko  mu  gon 
o  yoku  mo  to  yd  gan  kon 
V  sai  shu  jo  mei  to  sho 
ju  man  sho  fu  shu' shin  mon 


1- 

u 

75 

(i 

* 

\L 

m 

P 

\W 

m 

m 

% 

m 

k 

4tTt" 

m 

i  i 

MOUTHED  FROM  THE  START  SPEECHLESS  STILL 
MAN  AND  BEAST  LOSE  THEIR  WAY  ON  THIS  HILL 
SCARIFIED  HOLE  GUARDED  BY  A  HAIRY  HOST 
THAT  BORE  ALL  BUDDHAS  AND  ALWAYS  WILL! 


BOASTING  YE  FIRST  MOUTH  -  DUMB  NONE-THE-LESS 
A  HOST  OF  HAIRY  HONOR-GUARDS,  FOR  BUT  A  HOLE! 
MAN  AND  BEAST  LOSE  THEIR  WAY  AT  THIS  ADDRESS 
BIRTHPLACE  TO  ALL  BUDDHAS  —  CAN  YOU  GUESS? 


THE  VERY  FIRST  MOUTH,  IT'S  TOOTHLESS  &  DUMB. 
AN  ARMY  OF  HAIR  GUARDS  A  PIT  BY  THE  BUM! 
IT  GUIDES  US  HERE,  THEN  HELPS  MEN  GET  LOST; 
YET  OUT  OF  THIS  GATE  OUR  BUDDHAS  ALL  COME. 

The  sound  of  this  kyoshi  may  be  a  bit  off  as  it  was  not  provided  by  any 
book  the  author  saw.  Since  Ikkyu  belonged  to  the  Five  Mountain  Temples 
3L|ii<7)#|57E,  one  of  the  few  enclaves  in  Japan  noted  for  reading  in  the 
ondoku  HM  quasi-Chinese  style  which  would  vocalize  the  rhyme  (  PMW 


©♦ftj  i^W it H0)  one  might  think  all  books  would  supply  it,  but,  no, 
they  simply  rewrite  it  in  long-hand  so  to  speak,  as  they  might  any  piece  of 
Chinese-style  (kanbun)  prose.  "A  Woman's  Sex"  as  John  Stevens  trans- 
lates the  title,  does  not  start  this  chapter  just  to  catch  your  attention,  but 
because  the  ugly  expression  Stevens  coyly  translates  as  "it?  "  namely,  the 
"round  scar"  or  "pock"  is  out  of  character  from  a  monk  known  to 
love  women  and,  therefor,  seems  to  be  proof  that  end-rhyme  mattered. 
Ikkyu  needed  that  awful  kon,  or  "scar"  for  the  rhyme  with  gon,  and 
brought  in  "round,"  a  word  full  of  good  meaning,  to  make  amends.  Or, 
round  may  be  a  cover  for  fL  nine  (the  hole  that  was  slang  for  it)  making  a 
better  rhyme  yet  for  the  "wordless"  mugon:  kyukon  rather  than  gankonl 
Lest  you  think  that  improbable,  observe  that  another  poem  of  his  clearly 
ciphers  homosexual  behavior  %  -fe  {male  color)  as  IE  (brave  fat). 
Regardless,  the  original  seems  a  series  of  paradoxes  in  riddle  form. 

tt^Mtf  •  mm^AmM  -  mmm^mm  •  ihmmmRX^ 

(^'>AHf  —  f^fi^C  L  HE9  "We"  in  the  original  is  mountain  monks. 

I  follow  one  explanation  of  the  second  line  which  may  well  be  wrong.) 

YOUNG  MEN  LIVE  FOR  RICHES'  SAKE 
POVERTY'S  RAGS  ARE  HARD  TO  TAKE 
WE  HAVE  NO  TEA  NO  WINE  NO  CAKE 
WE  ARE  COOL  4  THE  WORDS  WE  MAKE 


The  second  line  of  the  original  Ikkyu  poem  above  does  not  end-rhyme,  but 
the  translation  lost  an  internal  rhyme,  so  call  it  even  Steven.  One  reason 
half  a  dozen  of  Ikkyu's  snappy  Chinese-style  rhymes  were  introduced  in 
the  740-page  Monster  was  because  I  felt  pre-Tenmei  Chinese-style  mad- 
poems  are  unfairly  denigrated  by  the  only  book  my  limited  time  and 
money  allowed  me  to  by  on  the  subject  of  Edo  era  kyoshi.  Here  is  what 
Hino  Tatsuo  and  Takahashi  Keiichi  write  about  Ikkyu  and  kyoshi: 

To  say  Ikkyu  only  wrote  ludicrous  kyoshi  is  to  say  that  kyoshi  was  not 
yet  worth  calling  literature  (— ftc,  ttMcjf  ft  (D&M  ^{^^>tc  b  5  fctf 
"C  n ,  £  tdJC^1 1  V  &V\  )    Kyoshi  become  literature 

when  those  who  write  them  consciously  choose  this  style  or  genre 
characterized  by  a  critical  attitude  naturally  born  of  a  mismatch  of  form 
and  content  [the  original  uses  the  English  "unbalanced"],  and  this  play, 
as  play,  attains  the  heights  of  fine  expression.  (PSp  +  ftjfi  [Fi^^JftF, 
?XF?if#<75m#J  1991) 

Granting  kyoshi  became  popular  entertainment  in  the  late- 18c  largely  due 
to  young  Ota  Nanpo's  genius  -  Is  that  reason  to  discredit  Ikkyu,  deny 
other  old  kyoshi  and  credit  Ota  alone  with  taking  hitherto  stiff  (^.i^  LV"1) 
regulation  (JEM)  Chinese  poems  (?Jtf#),  boldly  introducing  slang  ( P 


<7){#fn)  and  applying  the  form  to  vulgar  matters  (^.fg  »  Ht$t)?  Not 
without  a  thorough  study  of  1)  old  kyoshi  in  Japan  by  whatever  name,  for 
it  is  hard  to  believe  Yuchoro,  Teitoku,  Buson  and  other  playful  souls  did 
not  experiment  with  all-character  poems;  2)  Chinese  poetry,  to  see  just 
how  'mad'  the  Chinese  themselves  could  be,  and  3),  how  much  Nanpo 
read  of  1)  and  2).  Yet,  Nanpo 's  creativity  and  editorial  sophistication  may 
indeed  lack  precedent.  H  &  T  find  Professor  Sleepyhead's  Anthology  (8- 
•^9g^.JcM  1767),  published  when  he  was  just  nineteen,  in  a  different  class 
from  others  (egM#feW~£X$kll&m&M/l76l)  and  example  the  sort  of 
novelty  that  inspired  kyoshi  as  a  real  genre  with  the  following  poem.  What 
it  does,  in  short,  is  play  proverbs  differently  in  each  line.  The  first  points 
out  that  if  "indigence  dulls  a  man,"  it  increases  the  poor  man's  handicap; 
the  second  splices  a  food  proverb  to  an  idiom  for  work;  the  third  asks 
rhetorically  if  you've  heard  that  one's  passage  through  Hades  (purgatory) 
depends  on  money;  the  fourth  reverses  the  proverb  that  work  cures 
poverty.  The  allegedly  revolutionary  orthography  and  slang  (eg.^  5  do 
not  translate  and  the  order  and  some  other  details  differs,  but  - 


TO  EAT  OR  NOT  TO  EAT,  DEPENDS  ON  WHAT  WE  EARN, 
BUT  IF  INDIGENCE  DULLS  US,  CAN  A  MAN  EVER  LEARN? 
MOST  OF  THE  TIME  POVERTY  OVERTAKES  HARD  WORK,  OR, 
HAVEN'T  U  HEARD?  EVEN  GOING  TO  HELL  TAKES  MONEY  TO  BURN! 


because  poor  because  dull  not  world  what  /  eat-is  not  eat  my  mouth-passing=job  / 
you  not  hear  hell  sieve  money-dependent  /  cliff  chase  catch  poverty  plentiful 

The  original  is  not  the  usual  perfect  rectangle  and  the  rhyme  is  hard  to  pin 
down.  As  Nanpo  had  a  natural  sense  with  words,  he  could  still  make  it 
scan.  All  the  translator  can  do  is  his  damndest,  though  the  result  makes 
little  more  sense  than  the  word-for-word  gloss,  which  is  close  to  worthless 
(sorry).  One  thing  is  certain.  Nanpo 's  play  with  proverbs  and  idioms  may 
not  always  translate  but  it  is  contagious.  This  translator  found  himself 
suddenly  coming  up  with  lines  like  "Your  money  or  your  afterlife!"  and 
new  aphorisms,  following  proverbs  such  as  the  one  about  Hell,  above: 


RICH  MEN  CANNOT  BE  KEPT  DOWN  BUT  THEY  CAN  GET  LOST; 
IF  YOU  ARE  POOR,  PEOPLE  ALWAYS  TELL  YOU  WHERE  TO  GO! 


Regardless,  until  the  translator  can  examine  a  large  number  of  kyoshi  by 
Nanpo  et  al  he  cannot  judge  them,  or  make  comparisons.  Most  of  the 
examples  in  Hino  and  Takahashi's  book  strike  him  as  either  uninteresting 
or  too  long  for  comparison  to  kyoka.  But  he  did  find  a  couple  interesting 
kyoshi,  one  in  that  book  and  one  in  another  to  share.  Both  are  early- 19c. 
The  title  of  the  chapter  made  for  them  in  the  740-page  Monster  is  Blue 
Camels  &  White  Swimmers:  News  in  Character.  The  former: 

m  S2  £g 
-  &  |Jj  W  ^ 

THE  BITTER  BA  CTRIAN   RAKUDA -EN 

BOUGHT  BY  A  MONTEBLANK  UNFAIR, 
DAY  AFTER  DAY,  I  SPIT,  THEY  STARE; 
WHILE  I  DREAM  OF  THE  SANDY  MOOR 
MY  MASTER  FEEDS  ME  LESS  AND  LESS: 
NONE  CARE  ABOUT  MY  POOR  CAMELOT! 

The  original  is  four  lines  &  says  "one-fall-mountain-master's-hand  /  day-day- 
audience-many  /  yet-think-field-raise-time  /  not-eat-poor-camel=poverty-ease 

This  rhyme-scheme  is  weak  for  a  Chinese-style  mad-poem  but  suitable  for 
the  subject.  It  is  doubly  bactrian:  ABCB,  i.e.  a  four-legged  couplet  and 
that  rhyme  extends  two  characters  (~  butsuta  I  ~  rakudd).  The  title  mimics 
standard  trope  of  a  "bitter  courtesan."  The  last  line  takes  the  saying 
kuwazu  binraku  "if  you  don 't  eat,  poverty 's  fun  "  and  puns  the  binraku, 
poverty-ease,  a  slothful  state  of  irresponsibility  the  wise  prefer  to  the 
burdens  of  wealth,  into  the  underfed  rgkuda,  or  camel.  The  poem  grew  a 
line  in  translation  but  thanks  to  "Camelot  =  camel  lot,  "  something  of  the 
style  of  the  original  wit  survives  translation.  The  content  is  another  matter. 

RftKt  L&t  &(Dtfb<  fcfrfc  JOkt  1824 
nippon  ni  toshi  o  torn  no  ga  rakuda  (raku  da)  kana  Issa 
Japan-in  year/age+acc  take  is/are  easy/camel+exclam. 


Growing  old  (passing  the  N.  Y.)  in  Japan,  why  it 's  camels/easy! 


219 


E  r  X*b  L  b  or  &  ^thn  h  <  fclfc  Jc&-k  1824 

doko  de  toshi  totte  mo  sochi  wa  rakuda  (raku  da)  kana 
where-at  year  taking+emph  there-as-for  camel/easy+exclam 

Wherever  they/we  age,  that  is  where  they/we  're  camels/at  easel 


These  camels  are  in  Issa's  Journal.  Both  kyoku  play  on  the  homophonic 
meaning  of  the  name  rakuda.  One  is  sweetly  boastful  and  the  other, 
which  comes  half  a  dozen  ku  later,  exchanges  that  banal  chauvinism  for 
something  better,  a  camel  report  that  reads  like  an  aphorism.  These  camels 
paraded  from  one  major  Japanese  city  to  another  in  1822  became  famous 
not  because  of  the  punning  name  as  one  might  imagine  from  the  above, 
but  as  exemplars  of  what  was  at  the  time  rare  behavior.  To  go  camel,  so  to 
speak,  was  for  a  husband  and  wife  to  walk  together  in  public.  So  Issa's  ku 
might  also  mean  that  they  were  together. 


WESTERN  WOMEN  BATHE  BY  THE  SEA 
DIVING  IN  NUDE,  A  BUOYANT  DREAM, 
FULL  BREASTS,  THIN  WAISTS,  BIG  BUTTS 
LIKE  GOURDS  BOBBING  DOWN  A  STREAM 

mmm§A7m  ^m^±  mm-*- 


Other  than  "dream,"  the  translation  follows  the  original,  which  has  only 
one  metaphor  and  poor  end-rhyme  but  is  worth  introducing  because  the 
subject  is  rare.  This  may  be  the  first  metaphorical  description  of  the 
secondary  sexual  characteristics  of  the  Occidental  woman,  exaggerated  in 
comparison  to  Far  Eastern  features.  In  19c  Europe,  scientists  boasted  that 
full  Caucasian  figures  demonstrated  more  highly  developed  sexual 
specialization  than  in  the  relatively  unisex  Amerindian  or  Mongolian  races, 
proving  a  more  advanced  state  of  evolution.  In  Japan,  large  breasts  were, 
rather,  the  mark  of  stereotypically  bestial  wet-nurses  and  large  buttocks 
seen  as  a  flaw  on  female  beauty.  Most  appreciation  for  ample  posteriors 
was  homosexual.  Youths  with  big  white  "salty"  butts  were  pictured  and 
poeticized!  There  were  exceptions.  The  greatest  graphic  designer  of  all 
time,  Hokusai,  clearly  favored  big-butt  women.  But  the  general  attitude 
was  clearly  anti-ass.  Viz.,  a  Tokuwakago  W-^uWi&M^M  (1785)  kyoka: 


sageobi  o  miru  ni  tsukete  mo  otafuku  no  koromogae  ukijiri  ni  zo  arikeru  tachibana  suzunari 
lowered  belt+acc  see  adding  even  Otafuku' s  dress-changing  woeful/floating-ass-by  is+emph 


Though  she  clearly  wears  her  belt  down  low  on  dress-change  day, 
Miss  Plump-cheeks '  sorry  rump  insists  on  floating  up  to  play! 

Otafuku,  though  her  name  means  much  luck  or  happiness,  has  enormous 
cheeks  which  swallow  up  her  clitoral  nose  and  pinch  her  vulvic  mouth.  In 
other  words,  she  is  a  mask  -  usually  paired  with  Hyon-otoko,  a  man  with 
his  slightly  twisted  pursed  lips  puckered  out  so  far  as  to  appear  phallic,  she 
is  hung  on  the  wall  -  but  also  an  ugly  woman.  To  return  to  the  bathers. 
The  mid- 19c  date  corresponds  with  reports  of  the  popularization  of 
swimming  for  health  in  Japan.  Bifurcated  swim-wear  was  probably 
considered  nude. 


As  we  must  read  other  waka  to  better  grasp  what  makes  kyoka  kyoka,  we 
cannot  get  a  good  handle  on  kyoshi  without  reading  related  poems.  The 
following  poems  from  vol.4  of  Blyth's  Zen  and  Zen  Classics:  Mumonkan 
are  not  mad  but  simply  epigrams.  It  is  interesting  that,  despite  having 
written  an  extraordinary  essay  on  the  significance  of  rhyme,  pointing  out 
why  the  arrow  that  killed  Cock-robin  had  to  be  shot  by  the  sparrow,  etc., 
Blyth  never  tries  to  do  it.  That  probably  is  because  he  had  far  too  much  to 
introduce  to  the  world  to  slow  down  and  work  for  a  good  rhyme.  But,  if 
he  hoped  someone  with  more  time  might  later  rhyme  it,  as  far  as  this 
translator  knows,  it  has  not  happened.  Here  are  Cases  XI  and  XIV, 
metaphorical  and  what-if  descriptions  of  the  brilliant  monk  Joshu,  in 
English  rhyme,  perhaps  for  the  first  time: 


P  Otafuku,  or  Ugly  A-Bun-Dance  P 


m  m 


m    A  73 

si  a  m 


m  m  5g  ^ 
m  ft  jtk  ^ 

#  W  7\  ^ 


HIS  EYES  SHOOT  STARS, 


HAD  JOSHU  BUT  BEEN  THERE, 


LIGHTNING'S  HIS  WORD. 


HE'D  SNATCHED  THAT  KNIFE: 


A  MAN-KILLING  BLADE, 
HIS  LIFE-GIVING  SWORD 


HOW  DIFFERENT  AN  AFFAIR, 
NANSEN  BEGGING  4  HIS  LIFE! 


221 


1.  His  eye  is  a  shooting  star;  /  The  movements  of  his  soul  are  like  lightning.  /  He  is  a 
death-dealer,  /  A  life-giving  sword.     2.  If  Joshu  had  been  there,  / Everything  would 
have  been  done  the  other  way  round.  /  He  would  have  snatched  away  the  knife, 
/  And Nansen  would  have  begged for  his  life.   Both  R.H.  Blyth  tr. 

The  second  line  speaks  to  the  speed  and  decisiveness  of  his  thought,  but 
how  would  people  know  that  without  words?  And  the  rhyme  was  needed 
to  make  the  poem  snap  like  the  original,  a  clear  abcb,  i.e.,  broken  couplet. 
The  second  and  third  lines  of  the  second  poem  were  switched,  for  not  to 
do  so  would  have  lengthened  the  poem.  But  Blyth's  13-syllable  second 
line  -  why  one  could  kill  or  not  kill  a  whole  litter  of  kittens  in  that  much 
time!  (Nansen  demanded  a  brilliant  reply  to  a  Zen  question  or  the  cat's 
life,  the  cat  died  because  none  of  the  disciples  came  up  with  anything, 
after  which  Joshu,  who  had  been  absent,  returned  and  hearing  about  what 
happened  immediately  put  his  shoe  upon  his  head  at  which  Nansen 
lamented  that  had  he  been  there  the  cat  would  still  be  alive.) 


X  X   X  1  I  I 


&  A  &  M  H  to 


SWORDMASTERS  GET  THE  RIGHT  O'WAY 
NO  POET?  KEEP  YOUR  POEM  -  SHUT  UP! 
MEETING  OTHERS,  GIVE  NO  QUARTER; 
TELL  'EM  THREE  QUARTERS,  AND  STOP! 


MEETING  A  SWORD-MASTER,  GIVE  IN, 
SEEING  NO  POET,  HOLD  YOUR  BRUSH. 
AND  NEVER  TELL  ALL  TO  A  STRANGER, 
THREE  QUARTERS  IS  MORE  THAN  ENUF. 

If  you  meet  a  master-swordsman  in  the  street,  give  him  a  sword.  /  If  you  meet  an 
unpoetical  man,  don 't  offer  him  a  poem.  /  When  you  meet  someone,  tell  him  three 
quarters,  /  Don 't  on  any  account  let  him  have  the  other  part,   trans.  R.H.  Blyth 

Blyth  nodded.  H  may  be  a  character  in  one  famous  sword,  but  here  it  is  an 
adverb  modifying  "giving."  But  that  is  of  less  importance  to  this  book  than 
the  difference  of  length  in  the  respective  translations.  Blyth's  is  two  or 
three-times  as  long  as  the  original.  That  is  not  to  say  a  short  translation 
adequately  communicates  the  meaning.  But  it  does  not  have  to  as  that  is 
what  the  stories  do.  As  Blyth  explains,  the  first  two  lines  reflect  a  Chinese 
prescription  to  treat  each  person  according  to  his  "condition."  Fine.  But  if 


222 


you  have  read  Sufi  tales  telling  the  same,  you  know  even  translated  prose 
can  be  snappier  than  explanatory  translations  of  poems.  "The  Verse,"  as  he 
calls  it,  is  not  merely  a  message,  but  a  gem  to  be  savored.  Proof?  The  final 
two  lines  are  now  in  all  the  proverb  dictionaries.  To  maintain  that 
aphoristic  quality  a  translator  must  re-create  rather  than  explain.  The  last  of 
this  sampling  is  not  called  the  "verse"  but  the  commentary  for  Case  #34, 
Nansen's  No  Way. 

S  M  RT  if 

it  m  n  p 
m  &  ft  & 

B  m  tin  Ji 

£p  m  #  & 


OF  OLD  NANSEN,  I  LAMENT: 
LOST  TO  SHAME,  INDECENT 
HE,  OPENS  HIS  FOUL  MOUTH, 
'COME  INTO  MY  DIRTY  HOUSE!' 

THAT  SUCH  A  MONK  BOASTS 
DEVOTEES  IS  OPEN  TO  DOUBT 


Nansen,  growing  old,  was  lost  to  shame.  Just  opening  his  stinking  mouth, 
he  told  others  about  the  disgrace  of  his  own  house.  However,  we  must  say 
that  few  are  grateful  for  it.     trans,  by  R.H.  Blyth  (in  Mumon  .  .  .) 

For  those  who  did  not  read  the  preceding  chapters,  Blyth  introduces  the 
eccentric  Zen  priest,  his  dramatis  persona,  like  this:  "Nansen  is  the  chap 
who  loved  his  teaching  more  than  cats. "  Now  that  is  poetic!  But,  as 
always,  his  translation  is  a  gloss  on  the  original  that  only  serves  as  a 
splendid  foil  to  show  how  much  work  it  took  to  create  something  that 
scanned,  or  in  this  case,  squared. 


Quality  Poems  Wanted.  Though  translated  as  freely,  or  madly,  as  Ikkyu's 
paradoxical  Female  Sex,  Shokusanjin's  contradictory  proverbs  or  Anonymous' 
camel  poem  (a  sort  of  sympathetic  squib?),  none  of  these  Mumon  poems  seem  as 
interesting  as  those  kyoshi.  Ikkyu  and  Chikamasa,  with  kyoka,  managed  to  be  truly 
comic,  and  Piet  Hein  with  his  grooks  consistently  did  the  same,  so  the  didactic  is  not 
intrinsically  boring.  It  would  just  seem  that  the  genius  required  to  make  instruction 
witty  is  rare.  But  even  the  better  poems  I  translated  are  not  great.  Your  translator 
wants  better  stuff  to  work  with.  People  with  access  to  and  the  ability  to  read  poems 
written  in  Chinese  characters  in  real  Chinese  or  Japanese  (fake)  Chinese  are  invited 
to  submit  interesting  short  (say  28-character  limit?)  poems  for  consideration. 


Mad  Death  Poems,  or  The  Best  Diers  in  the  World 

sokan  wa  doko  e  to  hito  no  tou  naraba  chito  yd  atte  ano  yo  e  to  ie  sokan  d.  1 540 
sokan-as-for  where-to  people  ask-if,  'a  bit  business  is/having  that  world-to'  say/tell[them]. 

If  anyone  asks 
where  old  Sokan  went, 
you  can  just  say 

"He  had  some  business 
in  the  other  world.  " 

This,  the  first  of  the  death  poems  SSii,  literally  words  for  the  world  in  the 
19c  Kyoka  Ichiman-shu  is,  with  Saigyo's  waka  wishing  to  die  below  a 
cherry  in  full  bloom  under  a  full  moon  and  Basho's  ku  about  wandering 
the  withered  moor,  among  the  three  most  famous  death  poems.  It  is  in  the 
first  major  kyoka  collection  {Savage  1666  if  Z  \t  ifhfzff),  and  many  others. 
It  is  even  good  in  translation  without  rhyme  or  pun.  As  laughing  off  one's 
death  is  the  ultimate  proof  of  good  character  and  many  Japanese  had  it, 
many  if  not  most  poems  written  for  dying  are  delightfully  mad. 

How  striking 
when  you  see  them  from 
outside  Creation 

earth  &  sky  aren 't  worth 
even  a  box  of  matches! 

kenkon  no  soto  yori  uchi  mireba  hhichi-bako  ni  mo  taranu  ametsuchi  fuse  yajiro 
cosmos'  without-from  emph.=strike  see-if  fire-strike-box-to  even  suffice-not  heaven-earth 

This  death-poem  from  Yoel  Hoffmann's  Japanese  Death  Poems  reflects  a 
near-death  experience  the  first  time  undated  "warrior"  Fuse  Yajiro  thought 
he  would  die.  A  literally  striking  {uchi)  emphatic  primes  us  for  the  match- 
box to  come  foreshadowed  by  the  initial  "cosmos,"  kenkon,  short  for  a 
cosmic  box  kenkon-no-hako  ^£±$(7)fg  (the  lid,  heaven,  bottom  earth)  vision 
of  creation.  If  the  original  was  written  in  phonetic  syllabary,  the  kenkon 
might  also  pun  with  genkon,  what  is  right  before  one's  eyes.  The  poem's 
attitude  may  seem  pedagogical,  but  the  prevalence  of  larger  metaphors 
such  as  lightning-striking  in  death  poems,  makes  something  as  humble  as 
personal  fire-making  equipment  (not  quite  matches:  see  pg.  124)  novel. 

Hardly  striking  when  seen  from  without  when  I  didn 't  die: 
Not  worth  a  fire-making  box,  they  were,  the  earth  and  sky! 


Hoffman,  who  did  not  mention  the  largely  untranslatable  wit  of  the  above 
poem,  chased  it  down  with  the  words  "However  strange  it  may  seem, 
many  poets  chose  to  end  their  lives  with  a  satirical  poem,  "  and  followed 
that  with  a  string  of  kyoka  of  which  the  first  was  the  following  by  Basho's 
painting  teacher  and  haikai  student  Kyoriku  (1656-1715), 

'Til  now  I  thought 
for  sure,  dying  was  something 
for  nincompoops 

When  talents  die,  though  fewer, 
I  '11  bet  we  make  better  manure! 

ima  made  wa  heta  ga  shinu  zo  to  omoishi  nijozu  mo  shineba  knso  jozu  kana  kyoriku 
now-'til-as4  incompetents  die+emph  thought  but  competents  too  die-when  good  shit! 

The  manure  is  from  Hoffman.  Your  translator  was  so  delighted  to  find 
him  picking  up  on  the  wit  that  he  himself  neglected  another  reading  which 
is  actually  the  main  one:  shit=kuso  is  synonymous  with  fertilizer,  but,  first, 
an  emphatic  adverb,  like  "damn!"  i.e.,  "when  we  talents  die,  we're  damn 
good  at  it."  Can  anyone  combine  the  following  nuance  and  manure? 

I  always  thought  dying  was  just  something  the  untalented  do 
but  when  a  man  of  talent  dies  ...  we  're  good  at  dying,  too! 

'Til  now  I  thought  that  this  dying  was  beneath  a  man  of  parts 
but  when  we  die  we  are  still  the  ones  who  do  it  with  art! 

Not  to  take  one's  own  death  gravely  is  the  ultimate  act  of  a  wise  man  and 
a  wise  guy.  In  my  opinion,  most  of  the  best  death  poems  come  from  haikai 
and  are  kyoku.  Hoffman  introduces  my  favorite,  by  Kasei  (d.  1859-2-2),  a 
kabuki  "artist"  (actor?): 

hai  ni  naru  na-nokori  mo  kyu  no  futsuka  kana 
ashes-as  become  name-leftover+emph  moxa's  seconday 

7,  too,  will  turn 
into  ashes  and  leave  my  mark 
this  second  day. 

Dying  on  a  day  when  moxabustion  was  ritually  endured  for  good  health, 
he  equated  his  ashes  with  used  moxa  and  hinted  at  a  memento/scar.  Kyoka 
are  more  complex,  but  this  natural  marriage  with  the  world  -  the  seasonal 
link  -  even  in  death  makes  haiku  eternal. 


go  nariseba  kd  tatete  mo  iku  beki  ni  shinuru  michi  ni  wa  te  mo  nakarikeri  honin-bo  sansa 
go(game)  is-if  koh  making  live  ought  though  dying  path-for  as4  a  move  evn  not+emph  1558-1623 


If  this  were  go 
I  could  set  up  some  koh 
and  stay  alive 


But,  going  down  death 's  road, 
I  haven 't  found  one  good  move. 


The  poet  was  a  great  go-master.  Go  beats  chess  hands  down  as  the  world's 
premier  intellectual  game;  our  ignorance  of  it  proves  the  West  has  yet  to 
treat  the  far  East  seriously.  K6  is  a  move,  or  rather  a  series  of  moves, 
more  satisfying  than  any  other  board  game  move.  One  must  play  go 
decently  to  appreciate  it,  but  let  me  try  to  explain.  A  stone  that  has  just 
taken  another  to  occupy  a  space  as  the  first  step  to  taking  more  stones  or  a 
larger  space  cannot  in  the  very  next  move  be  retaken  in  a  symmetrical  play. 
If  the  taken  side  would  retake  that  stone  and  fill  in  that  vulnerability,  thus 
preventing  the  other  from  making  the  aggression  a  fait  accompli  with  a 
subsequent  move,  it  must  place  a  stone  somewhere  it  could  inflict  heavy 
damage  if  not  immediately  taken.  These  kohs  may  go  on  and  on  like  a 
tennis  game  where  neither  player  can  manage  to  win  two  points  in  a  row. 


p/hokkuri  to  shinaba  wakiyori  hi  o  tsukete  ato  haikai  ni  nashite  tamuware  sobo  p.  1666 
sudden [hokku]ly  die-if  underarm[waki]-from  fire+acc  set,  after  hai[ashes]kai-as  make+polite 


If  I  should  up  & 
die,  mates,  use  the  hair 
below  my  arms 

for  kindling:  Set  me  afire 
turn  me  into  pure  haikai! 


&  what  is  left  you  might 
sell  to  the  ash-man 


away  tonight,  just  light 
me  armpit  first, 


If  I  should  pass 


a  haikai  master's  deathbed 


Let  my  death  be  hokku 
&,  when  I  go  in  a  blink, 
Be  my  Second,  cap  me 
w/  a  waki,  light  my  fire: 
Turned  to  ash,  I  shall  be 
Off  upon  my  last  haikai! 


Hair  is  not  mentioned,  but  if  you  recall  the  Manydshu  waka  about  mowing 
a  man's  armpit,  it  is  clearly  the  tinder  in  this  untranslatable  kyoka  with  not 
only  hokku,  the  lead-off  ku  in  link- verse  from  the  honored  guest,  but  tsuke, 
i.e.,  tsuke-ku,  or  seconding  ku  by  the  waki  or  second,  usually  the  host,  and 
haikai  punned  into  the  text,  itself  ambiguous.  The  translator  favors 
punning  the  penultimate  7  as  "ato  wa  ikai  ni,  "  where  ikai  means  "big"  or 
"many"  and,  idiomatically,  lots  of  work  for  you  guys,  thanks!  (i.e.,  jolftlS 
\ZLt£  V)  )  but  his  respondents  favor  ato  haikai  ni  nashite,  punning  ato,  hai  ni 
nashite,  or  "afterward,  (I/it)  become/s  ashes."  Haikai  may  also  pun  as  a 
derelict  to  be  thrown  away  Hifl  and  the  ash-man  BIW,  who  would  be 
perfect  here  //there  is  a  chance  the  nashite(becoming)  tamuware  is  dashite 
(putting  out  or  selling)  tamaware.  A  handwritten  f£  and  tz.  are  damn 
close  and  such  would  surely  make  a  good  mad  ending!  However,  as  my 
respondent  argues,  the  idea  of  making  the  poet's  life  becoming=nashite 
haikai  includes  the  nuance  of  putting  it  into  a  linked  sequence,  not  tossing 
it  out.  That  would  bring  out  the  endlessness  of  haikai,  which  is,  after  all, 
homophonous  with  wandering. 


M\kiz%.titi&x*?£&kZte  <o  ztiX'UfrhfifkfrkteL  Mih  63H1716 


raizan  wa  umareta  toga  de  shinurunari  sore  de  urami  mo  nanimo  ka  mo  nashi  raizan 
raizan-as4,  born  offense-from  die-am/becoming  that-from  grudge+emph  anythingatall  not 


Hoffman's  original  justifies  left.  Other  readings,  closer  to  Hoffman's  than 
the  above  with  its  added  advice,  were  dropped  because  his  "pay  for  the 
mistake  "  is  brilliant.  Toga  is  an  offense,  not  necessarily  criminal  but  likely 
to  incur  punishment.  A  hang-over  would  be  the  wages  of  the  toga  of 
overdrinking,  inability  to  become  enlightened  the  toga  of  being  a  woman 
(according  to  many  Buddhist  sects).  This  is  misbehavior  or  karmic  sin,  i.e. 
a  fault,  perhaps,  but  not  mistake,  yet  making  it  that  infinitely  improves  the 
poem.  When  something  works  that  well,  rhyme  is  moot. 


ikuru  koto  muzakashii  to  shiredo  shisuru  koto  mata  yoikarazu  omowayuru  kana  ryokan 
living  thing  difficult  knowing  but  die-doing  thing  also  easy-not  think-can  1 9c 


Raizan  has  died 
to  pay  for  the  mistake 
of  being  born: 

for  this  he  blames  no  one, 
and  bears  no  grudge. 


Raizan  is  dying: 
call  it  his  punishment 
for  being  born. 

The  fault  is  his,  he  leaves 
in  peace.  Don 't  mourn! 


tr.  Yoel  Hoffman 


&  my  paraverse 


Living  is  hard,  that  I  already  knew  -  but  dying,  too 
I've  come  to  know,  is  not  an  easy  thing  to  do! 


227 


Hoffman  put  Ryokan  with  the  haiku  poets  rather  than  the  monks  because 
he  was  a  well-known  poet,  and  gave  his  haiku  death-poem.  He  was  better 
known  for  31-syllabet  poems.  The  good  man  recorded  long  -  should  we 
say  running?  -  battles  with  the  trots.  Outhouses  must  have  made  it  sheer 
torture.  Both  his  poem  and  Raizan's  boast  no  more  than  a  touch  of 
paradox,  but  it  suffices  to  make  them  comic  and,  besides,  the  absence  of 
death  poems  in  ancient  waka  anthologies  makes  them  kyoka  by  default. 


waraigusa  nokosan  yori  mo  tsunezune  ni  kyoji  okitsure  ima  wa  kit  mo  nashi  jikko  1791 
laughngstock  leave-would  rather  thn  always  keepng  have  now-as-4  pain=(hai)ku+emph.  not! 

Rather  than  leave  a  poem  that  people  would  laugh  at  I  wrote 
this  one  early  and  set  it  aside,  so  now  I  can  die  -  composed. 

Hoffman  gave  the  fine  death-&«  Jikko  came  up  with,  perhaps  because  "he 
had  already  paid  due  respect  to  tradition"  by  preparing  the  above  kyoka  he 
claimed  to  have  heard  somewhere,  but  probably  wrote  himself  to  cap  a 
prose  piece  on  death-poems.  The  original  ends  a  bit  differently  than  the 
above  reading:  "now,  I  have  no  kul"  where  ku  =  pain  =  ^  &/or  haiku  =  fr) 
and  probably  means  no  more  ku  to  have  to  think  up.  Your  translator  feels 
this  kyoka  ought  to  be  famous  and  easily  googled,  but  actually  it  is  so 
obscure  the  original  Japanese  could  not  be  found  that  way! 

tsuru  mo  iya  kame  mo  iya  matsu  take  mo  iya  tada  no  hito  nite  shinu  zo  medetaki  yomo  no  akera 
crane  even  yuck,  turtle  even  yuck,  pine  bamboo  even  yuck:  person-as  die+emph.!  joyful  1 749-1823 

A  crane?  Not  me!  A  crane?  Yuck! 

Turtle,  pine  or  bamboo  A  turtle?  Yuck!  Pine,  bamboo 

Not  for  eternity!  Yuck,  yuck,  too! 

To  live  &  die  a  human  I  think  I've  luck  enough 

Is  reason  to  be  happy!  if  I  can  but  die  a  man! 


Who  would  be  a  crane  or  turtle,  bamboo  or  pine  tree? 
To  get  to  die  as  just  a  guy  is  good  enough  for  me. 

Whether  or  not  we  believe  humanity  a  condition  for  enlightenment  or 
going  to  heaven,  most  of  us  know  we  are  lucky  to  be  human.  In  this  sad 
age  full  of  vain  souls  wishing  for  long  lives  not  to  accomplish  things  but 
simply  to  live,  where  fighting  wars  or  the  crab  of  cancer  makes  one  a 
"hero"  while  dying  for  one's  art  or  to  further  learning  makes  one  a  fool,  a 
poem  challenging  longevity  as  the  ultimate  value  is  invaluable.  The 
bamboo  is  somewhat  anomalous  as  it  is  usually  not  held  to  live 


228 


particularly  long  and  identified  with  the  age  of  one  lifetime,  50-years, 
from  the  average  number  of  joints.  However  its  joints  also  symbolized 
generations  and  reigns.  The  original,  by  the  king  of  Tenmei  kyoka,  Ota  by 
whatever  a.k.a.,  is  ambiguous  with  respect  to  being  "just  a  human"  or  an 
average  man,  as  opposed  to  a  noble. 

tsuru  kyuhyaku-kyujukyu  nenme  kame  kyusen-kyuhyaku-kyujukyu  aa  nao  ha-kai 
crane  999th  year-on  turtle  9,999th  aah,  still  tooth-meeting(pre-death  eulogy-party) 

Nine  hundred  ninety-nine  for  crane  &  turtle  nine  thousand  plus  the  same 
Years  pass  and  still  they  blubber  -  Alas,  he  will  not  have  another! 

Death  is  relative.  To  reverse  a  Piet  Hein  grook  on  catching  trains  without 
being  vexed  -  in  the  end,  you'll  always  make  your  last  year  and  miss  the 
next.  The  original's  "tooth-meeting,"  (ha-kaim^),  is  a  social  gathering  to 
fill  up  on  laughs  to  hold  grief  at  bay  while  toasting  one  soon  to  depart  this 
world.  The  bathetic  words  and  rhyme  substitute  for  that  perfect  word. 
The  general  idea  of  death  at  any  age  being  something  to  regret  was  hinted 
at  in  a  1752  Mutamagawa  zappai,  and  repeated  shortly  after  Shokusanjin 
wrote  his  poem  by  a  Yanagidaru  senryu,  respectfully: 

ninety-nine-at  died-life  even  pitiful  is 
kyujuku  de  shinuru  inochi  mo  aware-nari 

'Tis  still  a  pity,  though  a  life  may  end  at  nine  and  ninety! 
One  year  can  be  cause  for  much  regret:  death  at  ninety  nine 

kyujuku  de  shinde  ichi-nen  oshigarare 
ninety-nine-at  dying,  one  year  regretted 

But  this  is  not  so  much  age  as  failing  to  reach  that  magical  number  of  100. 
Only  the  kyoka,  putting  99  next  to  999  and  9999  treated  true  relativity. 

wanzakure  funbaru  beika  kyo  bakari  ashita  wa  karasu  ga  kakkajiru  bei  yamanaka  genzaemon  d.1645 
(desperate  words)  struggle(hold  out)do=dialect?  today  only  tomorrow-as-4  crows-the  emph+munch  is=dial. 

Wanzakure!  Funbaru  bei  ka! 

Make  my  day!  Bring  it  on  today,  boys  - 1  can  hardly  wait! 
Watch  me  fall  upon  my  blade:  tomorrow,  crows,  don 't  be  late! 


229 


This  was  spoken  or  written  on  the  day  Yamanaka  Genzaemon  had  to 
commit  seppuku.  Usually,  the  condemned  made  a  bit  of  a  show  of  cutting 
his  belly  -  not  falling  on  the  blade  but  literally  spilling  one's  guts  -  at 
which  time  his  head  was  struck  off  by  whoever  had  that  honor,  often  a 
friend  with  a  good  arm.  By  doing  oneself  in,  the  condemned  could  keep 
his  possessions  from  being  confiscated,  enabling  his  family  to  survive 
(Montaigne  noted  the  same  system  in  Spain  in  the  time  of  Tiberius).  This  made 
untoward  scenes  rare,  for  a  man  would  not  want  to  risk  upsetting  the 
authorities.  Genzaemon  either  had  no  family  or  just  didn't  give  a  damn. 
Psychologist  Nada  Inada  marvels  at  this  full-blown  expression  of  the 
devil-may-care  attitude,  in-your-face  cool  bravado  that  would  become 
identified  with  Edoites  about  a  century  later.  This  was  no  Socrates.  Here 
is  your  first  rebel  without  a  cause:  gangster  punk.  But,  let  us  not  wax 
romantic.  This  low-rank  soldier  of  the  palace  guard  was  charged  with 
neglecting  his  duty  for  years  by  feigning  illness  and  behaving  like  a 
ruffian  while  spending  his  sick  leave  painting  the  town.  Guts  are  always 
admirable,  but  it  is  too  bad  this  exemplar  of  cool  -  the  poem  has  been 
well-known  for  centuries  -  had  to  be  a  jerk  who  threw  his  weight  around! 

But,  damn,  the  wording  of  that  bad  man  Genzaemon's  mad  poem  is  good! 
The  flavor  of  the  nitty-gritty  servant-class  Edo  area  dialect  /\JjM  (roppd- 
kotoba)  is  so  powerful,  it  even  survives  romanization.  No  even  remotely 
close  translation  is  possible,  for  Japanese,  excepting  a  prefixed  "shit"  (not 
in  this  poem),  does  not  rely  on  words  like  God,  damn,  devil,  bloody;  or 
fuck.  It  gets  down  in  grammatical  ways  -  call  it  dirty  grammar,  if  you  will. 
Still,  we  can  get  closer.  If  any  reader  can  reproduce  the  dialect  of  a  lower 
class  17c  English  soldier  from  whatever  is  the  scrappiest  part  of  greater 
London,  please  do  another  reading  and  send  it  to  me! 

kueba  heru  nemnreba  samuru  yononaka  ni  chito  mezurashiku  shinu  mo  nagusami  hakurikan-boun 
eating-if/when  (grow)thin,  sleeping  if/when  wake  midnight-in  somewhat  rare  dying  even  (a)  relief  1785 

J>      Leaving  the  World  tft  > 

Eating  makes  me  thin,  and  Sleeping  keeps  me  up:  Good  grief! 
So  what  in  the  World  is  odd  about  my  calling  Death  relief? 

Most  people  eat  and  sleep  to  wake  up  fat  (happy)  and  rested.   That  is 
enough  to  make  what  is  real  and  sad  paradoxical  and,  hence,  comic. 


Perhaps  a  double-digit  percent  of  the  scores  of  mad  death  poems  I 
gathered  here  and  there  were  in  Yoel  Hoffman's  1986  book  of  Death 
Poems.   Whether  he  knew  it  or  not,  he  had  more  kyoka  in  it  than  any 


230 


anthology  of  Japanese  poetry  in  translation  at  the  time  (since  then,  books 
of  surimono  published  by  art-book  presses  have  Englished  thousands  more 
from  the  early- 19c). 


fiS^hWtikV  (Dit(D^\Z.  £Efe6  t  V^^eWdi  "9  It  5  -ft  ikkyu 
nanigoto  mo  mina  itsuwari  no  yononaka  ni  shinuru  to  iu  zo  makoto  narikeru 
anything  even  all  falsehood/trick's  world-in  die  that+emph.  real/sincere  is! 

In  this  world  where  everything's  a  sham,  dying  is  real: 
You  can  count  on  death,  not  to  leave  you  on  the  lamb! 

In  this  world,  where  nothing  is  for  real,  do  not  despair: 
When  your  time  comes  to  die,  old  Death  will  be  there! 

In  this  world  where  all  is  falsehood  we  must  cling 
to  what  we  know:  death,  by  god,  is  the  real  thing! 

In  this  world  of  trickery  and  lying  just  one  thing 
Is  sincerity  itself:  death  and  people  dying. 

This  kyoka,  a  perfect  summation  of  what  would  be  the  attitude  of  the 
greatest  Occidental  death-positive  poet,  Emily  Dickinson,  is  by  the  Zen 
monk  Ikkyu  (1394-1481)  who,  as  we  noted  (pg.  153)  carried  a  skull  around 
on  the  New  Year.  It  is  not  really  a  death  poem.  But  it  is  a  kyoka  and  about 
death.  Here  is  one  more  that  missed  the  740-page  monster: 

tama  no  o  mo  uma  no  o  ni  nite  kirenureba  aware  kokyu  no  oto  mo  kikoezu  tegara  no  okamochi 
gem/soul-string+emph  horse-tail-like  resembling,  cut-if  sad,  fiddle=breath's  sound+emph  hear-not 

Souls  are  like  horse  tails  stretched  as  far  as  they  will  go, 
Until  they  part  and  we  no  longer  draw  breath  or  bow! 

Compared  to  Dickinson's  boiling  brains  simmering  down  to  a  bubble  and 
suddenly  decapitated  palms,  etc.,  this  is  pretty  tame.  It  is  also  funny  in  the 
original,  where  the  string  of  the  soul  (a  common  idiom  rather  than 
metaphor)  and  tail  are  both  "o"  and  fiddle  and  breath  are  both  kokyu. 
The  best  your  translator  could  do  was  draw  upon  one  common  verb.  Call 
it  a  half-witted  reading. 


S>  Fat  and  Happy?  Damn  right.  Anyone  can  lose  weight.  One  must,  however, 
have  properly  functioning  guts  to  gain  it.  If  you  can  gain  weight,  you  are  lucky.  If 
you  are  fat,  don't  feel  sorry  for  yourself,  but  for  the  involuntary  thin,  who  lack  the 
freedom  you  may  or  may  not  exercise  to  shape  your  body. 


Bathetic  Laments  &  Punderous  Eulogies 

^Ffifc 5       h  &  h ^ii ^izK  L  fctL  Mr  tf)£n    ft  <  419 

hvafo  yaburu  tajikara  mogamo  teyowaki  onna  ni  shi  areba  sube  no  shiranaku  tamochi  no  okimi 
cavern  door  break  arm-power  wish-for  arm-weak  woman  as  am-if  method  know-not  8c 

How  I  wish  for  arms  strong  enough  to  bust  the  cavern  door, 
But  arm-weak  woman  that  I  am,  can  think  of  nothing  more! 

Oh,  to  be  Armstrong  prying  rocks  away  from  caves,  instead 
An  armweak  woman!  -  How  could  I  bring  back  the  dead? 

Reading  Japan's  oldest  anthology  of  poetry,  the  8c  Manydshu,  mostly 
standing  in  the  train  on  my  way  to  and  fro  work  in  early  1990's  Tokyo,  I 
found  wit  everywhere,  much  of  which  is,  as  far  as  I  know,  never  thought 
comic  by  anyone  but  me.  The  above  is  one  such.  As  silly  as  it  is  to  relate 
the  arm  of  the  god  who  held  the  stone  door  of  the  cave  open  to  keep  the 
Sun  Goddess  from  hiding  to  your  own  name  -  the  poet  is  the  'Queen  with 
Arms'  ^Wit^E  Tamochi  no  Okimi  -  and  gender,  which  if  only  it  were 
different  might  allow  you  to  muscle  open  the  grave  and  save  the  deceased, 
apparently,  comic  intent  could  not  be  admitted  where  a  poet  is  genuinely 
sad.  I  beg  to  differ.  One  can  lament  and  laugh  at  the  same  time.  Why 
not?  Here  is  another  such  poem  from  the  second  major  anthology,  the  905 
Kokinshu.  It,  too,  is  not  in  the  comic  haikai  section. 

tl<WMt^hf^t>tz.]0^  7XS^  Dftfc£/^<3  <  Z>mz.  kkslOc 
naku  namida  ame  to  furanan  watarigawa  mizu  masarinaba  kaeri-kuru  ga  ni  ono  no  - 
crying  tears  rain-as  falling-should  crossing-river  water  rising-if  return  !   -  takamura 

May  my  tears  fall  May  my  tears  fall 

like  rain  to  flood  that  river  like  rain  to  flood  the  River 

all  must  cross  and  all  must  cross  and 

Overflowing,  stop  my  wife  Be  not  an  Indian  giver, 

and  send  her  back  to  life!  Life  -  Return  my  wife! 

Here,  with  the  volume  of  tears  accented,  we  feel  the  poet's  pain  more,  but 
I  would  still  ask,  is  not  the  idea  of  flooding  the  River  Styx  (crossed  on  the 
seventh  day  of  the  dead  soul's  journey  to  the  nether  world)  with  one's  tears  in 
order  to  make  it  uncrossable  so  the  deceased  would  have  to  return  not 
comic,  or  'mad'  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  reader?  And  who  says  the 
poet  was  not  pleased  to  think  his  grief  bore  a  witty  poem?  Of  course,  my 
mad  phrases  such  as  "bring  back  the  dead"  for  the  first  poem  and  "indian 
giver")  for  the  second  make  them  seem  more  kyoka  than  they  are,  but  is 
that  not  only  a  difference  in  degree?  As  Chesterton  has  pointed  out,  wit 
and  seriousness  are  not  contrary.  However,  there  are  indeed  less  mad 
laments  for  the  deaths  of  others  than  for  one's  own  death  in  Japanese. 


232 


This  is  because  polite  and  courageous  people  prefer  to  laugh  at  themselves 
than  at  others.  Most  Japanese  laments  are  true  eulogies.  Some,  mostly 
kyoka,  are  comic,  but  the  black  humor  of  the  Occidental  epitaph  is  rare. 

-f<*&5f3:£o£  V  ft&i~*:'&J$>'&<D  Wtm<7>-5  oZVzVtfV  tt^fl7c 

sugu  naru  wa  makkiri-taosu  soma-yama  no  yugamu  wa  nokoru  ukiyo  narikeri  chikusai 
straight-be/are-as4  cutting-tumble  timber-mountain's  distort(ed)-as-for  remain  sad-world  is! 


All  the  straight  ones 
get  chopped  down  right  away 
on  timber  mountain. 

What  a  sad  and  woeful  world 
Where  only  the  crooked  stay! 


What  sad  and  woeful  times! 
The  crooked  R  allowed  to  be 

while  the  straight 
are  felled  like  trees!  Do  we 
live  in  timberland? 


Aside  from  exceptions  such  as  those  we  just  read  playing  with  ways  to 
block  the  path  of  the  dead,  most  "pitiful  hurting  songs"  SkWsWt.,  or  laments, 
in  tame  traditional  waka  bore  me.  So  I  tend  to  ignore  chapters  with  such 
poems.  Wild  waka  are  another  matter.  This  one,  perhaps  mourning  the 
untimely  death  of  a  good  man  is  by  the  fictional  beggar  saint  Chikusai, 
who  wandered  about  spouting  mad  poems  and  was  the  first  to  be  called  (at 
least  in  print)  a  "mad  poem  master ;"  or  kyoka-shi.    It  parodies 

Zhuang-ze  (Lao-tse)  's  gnarled  old  tree  that  explains  it  outlived  others  by 
being  good  for  nothing.  Such  Taoist  wisdom  does  seem  a  bit  odd,  or  at 
least  removed  from  the  reality  of  a  farming  people,  where  inferior  plants 
are  culled.  Since  trees  on  a  "timber  mountain"  or  somayama  M\\h,  are 
grown  to  be  cut,  the  metaphor  itself  is  misplaced,  making  the  poem  all  the 
more  delightfully  mad.  I  suppose  that  a  specific  good  soul  who  met  an 
untimely  death  gave  rise  to  this  poem  in  the  tale  within  which  this  poem 
first  appeared.  Issa  has  a  less  sophisticated  early  19c  take  on  the  same  - 

amai  tsuyu  furuka  furuka  to  kuchi  akete  matsu  hodo  mo  naki  tori  no  fun  kana  issa 
sweet  dew  fall?  fall?  and  mouth  opening  wait/ing  period  even  not  bird-shit! 

Sweet  dew,  his  due,  was  due  to  fall,  we  knew  it  would  visit, 
Trusting,  he  opened  his  mouth  and  shut  his  eyes:  bird-shit! 

Sweet  dew,  his  was  coming,  a  temple  -  I  got  the  scoop. 
Closing  his  eyes,  he  opened  his  mouth  and?  Bird  poop! 

The  translation  in  the  740-page  monster  is  Sweet  dew,  his  due,  was  bound 
to  fall  -  and  so  his  mouth,  /  Trusting,  opened  wide  only  to  find  bird  doo 
come  south!  From  the  original,  one  might  think  this  autobiographical, 
because,  as  a  general  rule,  a  poem  by  a  haikai  poet  where  no  person  is 


given  is  assumed  to  be  in  the  first  (while  classic  senryu,  as  it  deals  in 
stereotype,  tends  to  be  in  the  third)  but  Yaba  Katsuyuki's  Encyclopedia  of 
Issa  mentions  a  friend  who,  after  waiting  years  to  become  the  owner  of  a 
temple,  finally  learned  of  his  good  fortune  only  to  be  felled  by  a  sudden 
illness.  So,  I  made  it  third-person.  Though  far  from  as  clever  as  the 
silverfish,  with  many  poems  treating  bird-shit  as  something  good  because 
of  the  pun  associations  on  all  shit  (un  as  luck)  and  the  value  of  uguisu  shit 
for  cosmetics),  Issa's  down-to-earth  treatment  of  it  is  novel. 

ato  made  mo  sode  no  namida  no  kawakanu  wa  nuraseshi  hiza  no  mukui  naruran  kurohito 
after  until  (preface  says  7  years)  even  sleeves'  tears  dry-not-as4  wet  lap's  karma  is! 


This  is  simple  conceptual  Tenmei  kyoka  (W>^Ul£M  1785)  at  its  best. 
Hamabe  no  Kurohito's  lachrymal  morass  of  personal  grief  transforms  into 
pleasant  humor  by  comic  rather  than  cosmic  karma.  The  original  word  is 
mukui,  retribution  or  just  desert.  The  preface  explains  this  poem  was  for 
the  Seventh  anniversary  of  his  mother's  passing  notes  and  one  of  seven 
each  starting  with  a  letter  of  ^tpfc^-7c^o,  na-mu-a-mi-da-bu-tsu,  the 
appeal  to  the  merciful  Amitabha  Buddha  starting  the  Lotus  Sutra  of  the 
Supreme  Law.  Unlike  the  Occidental  eulogy  which  is  usually  composed 
soon  after  someone  dies,  this  type  of  remembrance  tends  to  be  reflective. 
It  is  common  because  in  the  Sinosphere,  the  anniversary  of  one's  death, 
which  is  to  say  one's  deathday  is  far  more  broadly  observed  than  one's 
birthday,  partly  because  aging  was  celebrated  collectively  on  the  New 
Year  and  partly  because  of  the  awareness  that  we  do  more  to  make  our 
deaths  than  our  births  and  the  day  of  our  death  matters  more  for  those  who 
knew  us  or  would  have  liked  to  have  known  us.  Rationally  speaking,  it  is 
the  better  day  to  mark.  The  genre  of  poetry  where  death-day  poems  that 
are  not  just  personal  but  collective  are  most  common  is  haiku.  One  could 
probably  gather  not  thousands  but  millions  of  such  poems  as  no  one  who 
writes  haiku  for  long  neglects  to  write  them  for  their  favorite  poets  or 
teachers.  Kyoka  was  not  that  enamored  with  the  practice,  but  there  was 
one  death  that  launched  maybe  a  thousand  poems  marking  its  various 
anniversaries.  That  was  Teiryu,  the  Osakan  full-time  /ryd^a-master  in 
charge  of  a  wide-flung  franchise  who  died  in  1734. 


fc>  for  My  Late  Mother 


After  seven  years 
my  sleeves  are  yet  to  dry,  but 
Why  such  tears? 


Why  do  the  tears 
not  dry  upon  my  sleeves 
after  all  these  years? 

It  must  be  this:  Payback 
for  the  times  I  wet  her  lap! 


It  must  be  Karma,  for  all 
the  times  I  wet  her  lap! 


234 


&%Vbl&A&UWtfo&t>&V&Mfy\Z.$LXlt-§intl  Mm  1734 
shiru  shiranu  hito  o  kyoka  ni  warawaseshi  sono  henpd  ni  naite  tamaware  teiga 
know  know-not  people+acc  kyoka-by  laughed  this/that  payback-for  cry+hon.!  fS^^t 

You  who  knew  or  didn  't  know  he  who  made  you  laugh  &  died: 
Now,  if  you  would  pay  him  back,  laugh  again,  until  you  cry! 

Whether  or  not  you  met,  if  his  mad  poems  made  you  laugh, 
You  know  what  you  owe  him  -  Now,  it's  your  turn  to  cry! 

This  is  a  lament,  or  rather  eulogy,  for  the  most  popular  pre-Tenmei  era 
mad  poet,  Teiryu,  by  his  brother  Teiga.  I  wish  it  were  a  death  poem,  for  it 
reads  better  yet  in  a  first-person  translation.  The  "laugh  until  you  cry"  in 
the  first  reading  is  mine. 

Men  I  knew,  Men  I  didn  't  —  I  made  you  laugh,  before  I  died: 
Now,  if  you  would  pay  me  back,  laugh  again  until  you  cry! 


Whether  or  not  we  met,  if  my  mad  poems  made  you  laugh, 
You  know  what  you  owe  me  -Now,  it's  your  turn  to  cry! 

I  first,  mistakenly,  thought  it  was.  But  it  is  not.  Mad  In  Translation  has 
over  a  score,  mostly  untranslated,  from  his  various  Death  Day 
anniversaries,.  Here  is  one  by  his  son  that  was. 

atarashii  obire  no  tsuita  kotonoha  wa  shigo  made  haneru  taiya  teiryu  ryuiin  1737 
new  tail  fin/s  attachd  words-as-for  death-aftr  evn  flap/jump  snapper-shop-teiryu 

Those  dapper  fins  &  tails  he  put  upon  our  words  have  snap, 
Like  the  snapper  in  his  name,  even  dead  we  see  them  flap. 

"Tails  and  fins"  is  idiomatic  for  "flourishes"  or  "garnishes,"  and  sea  bream, 
or  snapper  as  we  call  it  in  Florida,  served  up  whole  for  sashimi,  arranged 
where  its  body  was,  can  be  seen  fins  still  quivering  and  tail  flapping  on  the 
plate.  The  original  beats  the  translation  for  keeping  the  snapper,  his  family 
name  Taiya=snapper-monger  Teiryu  for  last. 

Words  he  dressed  in  fin  and  tail  even  dead  stay  dapper; 
Flap  alive  as  we  partake  -  Teiryu  is  still  the  Snapper. 

I  really  wanted  to  introduce  other  laments  for  Teiryu,  as  some  are 
excellent,  but  could  not  come  up  with  any  way  to  English  their  genius,  so, 
instead,  I  thought  I  would  try  to  at  least  do  justice  to  that  lively  dead 
snapper.  By  getting  the  word  snapper  to  be  it,  I  feel  a  little  better. 


235 


His  words  live  on:  the  laughter  they  bring  us  say  he 's  not  dead 
Like  sashimi,  moving  still,  'Snapper'  Teiryu  is  forever  read. 

This  would  be  better  if  the  English  reader  had  a  strong  image  of  a  red 
snapper  with  no  flesh  on  his  bones  (but  what  is  neatly  sliced  and  arranged 
there),  still  moving,  but  as  is,  I  am  afraid  it  is  no  improvement.  And,  there 
is  something  I  only  learned  after  doing  all  these  readings  that  makes  the 
snapper  poem  even  better.  The  deceased  Teiryu  wrote  a  poem  for  his 
younger  brother  Teiga  when  their  father,  the  haikai  and  kyoka  master  Tein 
died  at  age  80  in  1700  that  resolved  that  they  would  do  their  best  to 
not  to  let  those  fins  -  flourishes  and  vigor  -  of  the  Snapper-shop  line  of 
kyoka  fall  off!  (MTi  frfrlM^fr&^frfrfrteb*hWi<  HM©ftfc&L-t 
soko  to  ware  mako  ka  shirako  ka  .  .  .  ).  So  the  poem  by  Teiryu's  son  is  the 
best  sort  of  eulogy,  a  celebration  for  one  of  the  few  happy  lives  that 
fulfilled  its  promise. 

VnZk?  k%&ftfrXfrb*&k^X2b&WfZ&%>tj:Ji  tfi»«3  9  it  tiff 

feofco5S©Sd^ti^  Lfybt£%  hh  W^FW  chienonaishi 
atsumetsuru  mado  no  hotaru  no  kage  kiete  namidaya  fumi  no  shimi  to  naruran  fSj^n 
gathered  window's  light  vanishing  tears  writing/paper's  stain/silverfish  become!  1785 

J>  Stardust  Memories  J> 

as  he  so  loved  the  melancholy,  i  read  some  old 
yamato  passages  and,  because  he  died  in  july  - 

As  the  light  faded 
from  the  fireflies  I  caught 
my  teardrops  on  the  page 

turn  from  stain  to  silverfish 
and  swiftly  steal  away 

In  the  same  representative  Tenmei  kyoka  book  that  explained  weeping  as 
karma  from  wetting  mama's  lap,  we  find  this  poem  by  Little  Ignoramus, 
the  diva  of  kyoka.  It  is  of  a  completely  different  and,  for  that  genre,  far 
rarer  style:  elegant.  Consider  both  poems  and  it  is  easy  to  understand  why 
Tenmei  kyoka  became  so  popular.  The  Chinese  scholar  who  first  wrote 
about  reading  -  or,  was  it  writing?  -  by  light  of  firefly  mentioned  a 
window,  perhaps  because  another  scholar  had  one  by  which  he  stacked  up 
mountains  of  snow  the  better  to  read  by  moonlight.  Or,  maybe  the  space 
between  the  double  (paper)  windows  was  ideal  for  turning  into  a  firefly 
lamp.  Or,  maybe,  Japanese,  like  me,  always  put  their  desks  by  windows, 
so  that  was  where  a  lantern  full  of  fireflies  might  best  be  set.  Whatever.  I 
traded  in  that  window  for  other  words,  such  as  spelling-out  both  the  stain 


236 


and  the  silverfish  that  in  the  original  are,  phonetically  speaking,  one  and 
the  same  shimi,  and  the  last  line,  entirely  my  invention.  It  also  involves  a 
guess.  Were  fireflies  not  mentioned  and  this  not  in  a  collection  of  kyoka, 
shimi  might  only  have  been  a  stain;  but,  here,  why  not  bet  on  the 
additional  bug?  There  may  have  been  a  pun  in  the  preface,  for  the  poetic 
name  of  the  sixth  month,  minazuki,  or  "water  month"  sounds  like  "see- 
not,"  and  the  stain  may  well  be  a  witty  association  with  that  water.  There 
are  no  "Stardust  memories,"  but  when  I  think  of  the  dust  of  a  silverfish  that 
allies  it  to  moths  and  butterflies  and  the  sweetness  of  what  was  .  .  . 

^(D\(DL6  L(DMteh<0  f£frbltfr?£<  |5tlS^/j;  f^ffilt 
sono  hito  no  shirushi  no  tsuka  wa  arinagara  hakanaku=  haka  naku  ochiru  waga 
namida  kana.  that  man's  mound-asfor  is-while  futilely=grave-not  fall  my  tears! 

Here  is  a  mound  for  one  once  quick  and  brave  -  So  why 
Do  I  cry?  Because  my  tears  fall  on  grass  over  no  grave. 

In  the  original,  the  adverb  hakanaku  is  two  words,  grave=haka  and  not= 
naku,  meaning  without  a  grave  and,  after  the  following  verb/gerund, 
"falling"  modifying  "my  tears"  which  follow,  also  evokes  crying,  then 
finally  morphs  into  an  adverb  meaning  despairingly /futilely .  Such  puns 
are  more  than  enough  to  make  a  poem,  or,  in  translation,  break  it. 


At  first,  you  may  not  get  what  the  following  is  about.  At  first,  neither  did 
your  translator.  This  story  of  misreading  and  finally  catching  a  kyoka  is 
taken  almost  as-is,  chapter  title  and  all,  from  the  740-page  Monster. 


Meaningless  Postscript,  On  Expecting  the  Unexpected 

sukashi-he  no  kie-yasuki  koso  aware  nare  mi  wa  nakimono  to  omoinagara  mo  ki-no-sadamaru 
slip[silent]fart's  vanish-easily  espec.  sad  is:  substance-as-for  not-thing  knowing-while  1785 

How  sad  a  thing 
the  silent  fart,  so  quick 
to  disappear! 

I  get  no  cheer  in  knowing 
'twas  nothing  from  the  start. 

In  traditional  waka,  those  suffering  unrequited  love  were  said  to  "easily 
vanish,"  i.e.,  quickly  pine  away.  Hence,  I  thought  the  above  an  allegory  for 


237 


such  love  that  did  not  come  to  fruition.  As  it  turned  out,  my  reading,  was 
likewise,  futile  and  had  to  be  crossed  it  out  for  missing  the  point,  which 
we  will,  eventually,  get  to.  That  translation  was  hard  to  kill,  for  it  had  a 
certain  charm  and  it  took  wine  to  bring  me  the  correct  reading,  despite 
myself.  During  my  wine  time  (1 1-12AM,  5-6  &  1 1-12PM)  -  between  black 
coffee  time  and  meal  time  as  health  demands  -  I  cannot  help  but  jump  in 
and  make  poems  mine  or,  to  paraphrase  Edwin  Cranston,  lie  back  and  let 
it  rewrite  itself  ( "I  have  tended  to  let  the  poems  rewrite  themselves  in  ways  that 
sometimes  are  no  doubt  not  strictly  excusable  on  the  grounds  given  above" 
(Waka,  vol  2a)).  This  taking  in  or  letting  go  -  oddly,  they  amount  to  pretty 
much  the  same  thing  -  is  exactly  what  AI  translation  cannot  do  and  why 
computers  may  write  some  sorts  of  poetry  (the  simple  and  the  surreal)  well 
enough  but  never  translate  it  well.  Here  is  my  wine  time  reading: 

Pity  the  silent  fart, 
vanishing  without  a  trace, 
though  nothing  of  substance 
in  the  first  place 
-  Who  is?  - 

You  may  note  the  form  varies  from  the  original  enough  to  be  a  different 
sort  of  animal,  what  I  call  a  paraverse;  but,  as  it  turns  out,  my  wine  had 
more  verity  than  I  did.  Rhetorical  question  and  all,  This  mad  translation, 
or  invention,  actually  got  it  right,  while  the  stricter  reading  I  eventually 
had  to  cross-out  did  not.  Why  did  I  get  it  wrong?  Unrequited  love  -  the 
metaphor  implicit  to  my  first  (mis)translation  -  was  born  of  my  reading  or, 
rather,  the  union  of  countless  sad  lovers  bemoaning  or  welcoming  the 
vanishing  of  their  souls  in  the  Manyoshu  and  the  word  Fart  as  exampled 
by  Suckling's  "Love  is  the  fart  /  Of  every  heart;  /  It  pains  when  'tis  kept 
close;  /  It  pains  a  man  when  'tis  kept  close;  I  And  others  doth  offend,  when 
'tis  let  loose"  in  Samuel  Johnson's  Dictionary!  Not  knowing  this  kyoka  is 
generally  explained  as  a  parody  of  corny  death  poems,  and  the  mi,  i.e.,  the 
substance,  puns  on  the  body  or  the  self  not  love,  I  missed  that  intent  when 
I  read  and  translated  it  in  the  mid-1990's,  failing  to  notice  it  was  in  a 
chapter  of  the  classic  1785  kyoka  anthology  Tokuwa  Kago  Manzaishu 
titled  ZkiUkWi  aishoka,  or  laments,  the  sub-context  of  which  means  "other 
than  for  love,  as  those  complaints  are  in  the  love-poem  chapters,"  and  I 
missed  a  small-font  preface  to  the  effect  that  said  fart  was  treating 
impermanence  % J&M'M,  and  that  word  for  impermanence,  mujd,  was  one 
seldom  applied  to  love.  In  other  words,  it  was  one  of  the  few  kyoka  I 
encountered  before  my  sudden  interest  in  the  genre  in  early-2008.  Burton 
Watson  (read  in  Shirane+Brandon:  2002)  ,  as  far  as  I  know,  got  it  correct  the 
first  time  with  a  good  straight  translation  made  by  reversing  the  word 
order  and  turning  the  allusive  pun  into  a  clear  simile: 


Though  this  body,  I  know, 
is  a  thing  of  no  substance, 
must  it  fade,  alas, 
so  swiftly, 

like  a  soundless  fart?  (trans.  Burton  Watson) 

Of  course,  there  still  is  a  problem  with  the  logic.  Not  Watson's,  or  mine, 
but  the  original's.  It  may  hurt  for  one  to  pass  away  unheralded,  but 
nothing  stinks  like  a  silent  fart,  usually  modified,  for  good  reason,  as 
"deadly."  Speaking  of  which,  kyoka  is  itself  a  good  example  of  a  literary 
form  tending  to  flatulence  that  has  not  received  much  attention  yet  is 
nonetheless  said  to  stink.  Modernologist  and  Tokyo  University  phd. 
student  (Department  of  Contemporary  Literary  Studies),  Ryan  Morris, 
notes  in  his  web  magazine/blog  Behold  My  Swarthy  Face  that  the  prolific 
scholar-translator  Donald  Keene  was 

apparently  was  not  too  fond  of  kyoka,  calling  it  a  "minor  form  of 
poetry."  In  his  World  Within  Walls,  Keene  wrote  that  "their  [i.e., 
the  kyoka  poets']  fascination  with  trivialities  .  .  .  was  clearly  the 
result  of  a  disinclination  or  inability  to  face  the  world  seriously." 
"We  are  apt  to  form  the  impression,"  he  continues,  "that  the 
kyoka  poets  lacked  subjects  of  their  own;  that  was  why  they  so 
often  resorted  to  parody."  (Ishikawa  Jun's  "Moon  Gems"  - 
rough  draft,  January  26,  2008) 

Further  discussion  and  example  suggest  Keene  undervalued  the  genre.  Let 
me  be  more  blunt.  His  charge  against  kyoka  poets  could  be  made  for  most 
waka  poets  and  not  a  few  haijin  (haikai  poets)  too.  No,  it  could  be  made 
for  most  poets  anywhere.  How  many  have  "subjects  of  their  own?"  Poets 
generally  write  on  whatever  has  always  been  written  about  in  their 
respective  cultures.  The  fact  a  poem  might  be  personal  is  no  help. 
Feelings,  like  other  opinions,  may  be  sincere  and  newly-hatched  from  the 
individual's  point  of  view,  but  totally  boring  for  one  who  has  read  much  of 
the  same  going  back  millennia.  So,  we  might  better  ask:  Which  is  more 
boring,  poems  repeating  things  that  go  back  forever  or  poems  parodying  - 
though  the  question  is  unfair  for  if  you  have  read  this  book  carefully  you 
now  know  that  "parody"  encompasses  many  sorts  of  take-offs  and 
allusions  for  which  we  have  no  better  word  -  such  poems?  To  my  mind, 
so-called  parodies,  or  at  least  the  better  ones,  tend  to  be  the  poems  that  do 
not  repeat  history  but  add  something  new  to  it.  I  recall  reading  about  the 
Chinese  ruler  who  had  all  books  burned  so  he  would  become  known  as  the 
First  Emperor  of  all  time  when  I  was  a  boy  and  thinking  Ripley 's  Believe 
It  or  Not  sure  found  something  outlandish;  but,  now,  I  think  that  Emperor 
represents  the  modern  view  of  the  poet-as-creator,  one  who  composes  ex 
nihilo.  In  other  words,  our  ability  to  forget  the  past  is  so  great  today  we 


239 


hardly  need  destroy  it  to  pretend  to  originality.  Don't  get  me  wrong. 
Anyone  who  has  read  my  books  on  old  haiku  knows  how  much  I 
appreciate  new  variations  and  creativity.  I  am  also  a  Keene  fan.  I  like  most 
of  his  translations  and  envy  his  material,  some  of  which  I  wish  I  had  first 
dibs  on.  He  does,  however,  short-change  humor,  of  which  kyoka  would  be 
the  prime  example.  Is  it  possible  he  does  this  because  it  is  especially  hard 
to  translate  and  believing  the  genre  to  be  inferior  helps  him  rationalize  his 
choice  not  to?  Even  the  great  are  not  exempt  from  cognitive  dissonance. 

Be  that  as  it  may  -  and  I  hope  I  have  been  fair,  as  Keene  is  hardly  alone  in 
overlooking  kyoka  -  I,  who  consider  taking  the  world  with  a  grain  of  salt  a 
mark  of  sanity,  would  like  to  end  this  book  as  I  began  my  book  on  the 
dream  time  of  the  Japanese  New  Year,  The  Fifth  Season  (2007),  with  a 
quote  from  G.K.  Chesterton's  Heretics.  It  is  not  the  same  one.  The  last 
championed  the  cosmic  contentment  of  staying  home  rather  than  globe- 
trotting ala  Kipling  and  lamented  how  the  automobile  shrank  rather  than 
enlarged  the  world.  I  used  it  because  the  enchanted  season  I  introduced 
bore  and  was  born  of  a  culture  that  Chesterton,  had  he  come  to  know  it 
from  within,  would  have  loved,  as  surely  as  we  who  know  it  love 
Chesterton  whether  or  not  we  are  Christian.  This  one,  from  chapter  16, 
"On  Mr.  McCabe  and  a  Divine  Frivolity"  explains  why  wit  is  not  merely  a 
spice  to  sprinkle  on  otherwise  bland  ideas  to  make  them  palatable,  but  just 
what  we  seek,  the  thing  that,  whether  we  know  it  or  not,  makes  us  pick  up 
a  book.  After  the  preliminaries  ( "Mr.  McCabe  thinks  that  I  am  not  serious 
but  only  funny,  because  Mr.  McCabe  thinks  that  funny  is  the  opposite  of 
serious,  "  while,  in  reality,  "Funny  is  the  opposite  of  not  funny,  and  of 
nothing  else,  "  "Whether  a  man  chooses  to  tell  the  truth  in  long  sentences 
or  short  jokes  is  a  problem  analogous  to  whether  he  chooses  to  tell  the 
truth  in  French  or  German"  etc. ),  we  find  this  enlightening  passage: 

...  the  only  serious  reason  which  I  can  imagine  inducing  any  one  person 
to  listen  to  any  other  is,  that  the  first  person  looks  to  the  second  person 
with  an  ardent  faith  and  a  fixed  attention,  expecting  him  to  say  what  he 
does  not  expect  him  to  say.  It  may  be  a  paradox,  but  that  is  because 
paradoxes  are  true.  It  may  not  be  rational,  but  that  is  because  rationalism 
is  wrong.  But  clearly  it  is  quite  true  that  whenever  we  go  to  hear  a 
prophet  or  teacher  we  may  or  may  not  expect  wit,  we  may  or  may  not 
expect  eloquence,  but  we  do  expect  what  we  do  not  expect.  We  may  not 
expect  the  true,  we  may  not  even  expect  the  wise,  but  we  do  expect  the 
unexpected.  If  we  do  not  expect  the  unexpected,  why  do  we  go  there  at 
all?  If  we  expect  the  expected,  why  do  we  not  sit  at  home  and  expect  it 
by  ourselves? 


240 


A  Mad  Miscellany:  Things  that  Failed  to  Find  a  Chapter 
your  translator  thought  you  might  just  enjoy  reading  . . . 


oshiroi  no  kanban  to  suru  nakadaka  ni  nakahiku  shiranu  getaya  monmo  shokusanjin  d.  1 823 
white-powder/make-up's  sign-as  make  mid. -high/protrusion  despite,  cavity  know-not  geta-sellers  illiterate 

White  powder  to  heighten  features  sold  by  the  t£h  sign  on  site; 
HQ  would  do  for  double-stilt  shoes  if  cobblers  could  but  write 


White  foundation,  the  deko  HQ  sign  shows  the  features  you  lack 
Boko  HQ  would  for  geta  do,  if  cobblers  wrote  upon  their  back! 

Below  the  deko  HQ  shingle  white  foundation  can  be  found; 
No  boko  HQ  proves  all  geta  sellers  illiterate  or  unsound. 

Capitalism  is  usually  thought  to  be  Occidental,  but  actually  it  is  a  complex 
phenomena  and  the  Occident  did  not  lead  in  every  respect.  16c  visitors  to 
China  found  it  a  vibrant  market  economy  with  more  various  goods  and 
specialized  services  than  found  in  Europe,  and  Edo  period  visitors 
observed  that  Japan  led  the  way  in  publicity  ploys  and  labeled  pricing.  In 
Kyoto  make-up  was  commonly  sold  under  the  sign  "HQ#D"  or  "(makes  you 
look)  as  if  (your  facial  contours  are)  convex."  So  why  haven't  those 
stupid  geta-makers  followed  suit,  jokes  Shokusanjin,  unfairly,  or 
nonsensically,  if  you  prefer,  as  the  HQ  would  need  to  be  turned  over  to 
make  this  character  meaning  concave  a  picture  of  a  stilt  clog. 


With  senryu,  we  chuckle,  as  we  do  with  a  Piet  Hein  grook  masterpiece 
which  points  out  that  with  everything  either  concave  or  -vex,  whatever  we 
dream  will  be  about  sex.  What  Shokusanjin  adds  to  the  mix  is  both 
reportage  and  absurdity.  My  third  reading  of  his  poem,  found  in  the 
Kyoka  Appreciation  Dictionary,  probably  makes  too  much  sense. 


dekoboko  to  iu  ji  muhitsu  mo  kanji-iri  yanagidaru  92-7 
convex/protrusion-intrusion/concave  so-called  letter  brushless  even  feel 


even  people 
who  can't  write  can  read 
the  letters  Hi  HQ 


t£b  and  m 
even  illiterates  feel 
these  letters 


even  people 
who  cannot  read  like 
HQ  and  HQ 


242 


amida  wa  nami  no  soko  ni  koso  are  //  namu  to  iu  koe  no  uchiyori  mi  o  nagete  ftH 
amida-as-for  waves'  bottom-on  +emph.  is  //  namu-sez-voice/s'-within-from  body+acc  throwing 

♦  Amida  found  on  the  bed  of  the  sea?  ♦ 

With  the  sound  'Namu '  still  in  the  air, 
They  threw  themselves  into  the  water. 

Namu-amida-butsu,  a  long  name  for  the  Buddha,  is  how  many  sutras  start. 
The  Jesuits  gave  I-witness  accounts  of  such  suicides  where  believers  in  the 
reality  of  another  world,  a  paradise,  unencumbered  by  religious  fear  of 
suicide,  filled  their  sleeves  with  rocks  and  merrily  stepped  off  boats  into 
the  sea  in  the  16c.  This  anonymous  14-1 7-split  haikai  comes  from  the 
Chikuma  Kyoginshu  ffiM&^M  (KlSA^),  a  1499  collection  sometimes 
called  the  start  of  haikai  as  a  genre.  It  was  among  a  number  of  riddles 
found  by  my  respondent  when  I  asked  for  help  finding  some  for  the 
"Painful  but  Funny  Things:  Riddles  &  Natural  Wit  chapter  of  the  740- 
page  Monster.  The  7-7  ku  in  the  original  is  not  a  clear  question.  The 
question  part  of  a  Japanese  riddle  is  usually  not  one.  This  makes  it  hard  to 
say  where  riddles  begin.  Take,  for  example,  this  kyoka  found  in  a  17c 
miscellany,  the  poems  of  which  were  reprinted  in  Broadview.  To  me, 
such  a  poem  is  a  riddle  with  one  of  many  potential  solutions. 

shiru  hito  ni  hikerakashite  mo  yoki  mono  wa  ikusaba  de  torn  taisho  no  kubi  anon,  tk  #  34 
know-person-to  show-off  even  good  thing-as-for  battle-place-at  take  captain's  head  1659 

Things  that  are  fine  to  show-off  to  all  you  know  — 
©  If  taken  in  battle,  the  head  of  a  mighty  foe. 

It  may  also  be  a  parody  not  of  a  poem  but  of  a  genre  of  literature  that 
might  be  called  the  tasteful  description  and  grouping  of  things,  as  an 
exercise  of  aesthetic  discrimination,  or  editorial  listing,  the  rudiments  of 
which  are  first  found  in  China  but  only  came  of  age  in  The  Pillow  Book 
(c.1000)  of  Sei  Shonagon,  the  miscellany  of  this  outrageous  -  she 
criticized  rich  men  for  marrying  ugly  women,  declared  only  handsome 
men  should  preach  because  if  women  failed  to  pay  attention  they  might  sin, 
etc.  -  diva  of  good  taste.  The  practice  of  listing,  $9f3:M<  L  mono  wa 
tsukushi,  became  a  genre  half  a  millennium  later  when  books  with  nothing 
but  listing  appeared.  Sei  Shonagon  did  not  only  list  her  favorites  such  as 
adorable  things  (eg.,  "a  face  drawn  on  a  melon,")  but  included  the 
objectionable,  such  as  dirty  things  (eg.,  "the  inside  of  a  cat's  ear,").  Still, 


the  head  taken  in  battle  is  rougher  than  her  material.  Hence,  the  kyoka 
seems  to  me  a  dig  at  the  diva.  Here  is  a  haikai  example  of  a  type  of  listing 
we  may  call  "While X,  Y~"  things,  though  the  "thing"  is  the  translator's: 

M&ft&bt)  otlLfrV     «9  £  "9  frfo%>%m%:  XKtet^tiX  16c 

munen  nagara  mo  ureshikarikeri  sarikanuru  rosai  o  hito  ni  nusumarete  inu-tsukuba 
chagrin/fury  while  even  happy+emph  //  leave-cannot  old-wife+acc  person-by  stolen 

A  thing  that  brings  regret,  but  greater  joy: 
The  old  wife  you  'd  divorce  flees  w/  a  boy! 

Or,  "It  makes  me  furious,  yet  also  makes  me  glad  /  My  old  wife  who 
wouldn 't  leave,  stolen  by  a  younger  lad! "  {lad  and  boy  were  born  of 
rhyme,  hito  means  another  person).  Teachers  of  link- verse  found  that  such 
a  pre-verse  mae-ku,  or,  draw  -  whether  17  or  14  -  served  to  elicit  multiple 
tsuke-ku,  or  caps  from  students.  One  of  the  best-known  examples  of  such, 
from  the  same  Inu  (Dog=pseudo)  Tsukuba  anthology  (1539),  is  "You  want 
to  cut;  you  want  not  to  cut "  mae-ku,  capped  by  such  as  "Catching  the  thief, 
you  take  a  good  look  &  it's  your  son,  "  or,  "A  cherry  tree's  /  branch  of 
bloom  blocks  /  the  clear  moon.'"  In  the  extended  foreword  of  The  Woman 
Without  a  Hole  (2007),  I  relate  this  to  the  psychology  of  collecting  and  the 
birth  of  hyper-short-form  poetry  in  general  and  senryu  with  its  maezuke,  or 
"draw-accompanied"  in  particular.  The  other  best-known  example  is  - 

kurukurushiku  mo  okashikarikeri  •  waga  oya  no  shinuru  toki  ni  mo  he  o  kokite  sokan? 
distressing  but  funny+emph.  -  my/your-own  parent's  dying  time-at-even  fart  cutting 

Distressing,  yes,  distressing,  yet  it  really  is  a  blast  - 
For  a  fart  to  escape  you  while  dad  breathes  his  last! 

This  became  controversial  because  Teitoku  (1571-1653)  took  it  up  to  rake 
dead  Sokan,  the  editor  of  the  Inu  Tsukubashu  (it  is  not  clear  he  actually  wrote 
the  poem),  over  the  coals  for  unfilial  behavior.  Either,  Teitoku,  who  was 
broad-minded  in  most  ways,  was  fixated  on  parent-child  relations,  or  he 
felt  this  was  a  good  way  to  score  brownie  points  with  the  censors  to  ensure 
he  could  get  away  with  murder  in  his  own  haikai  and  kyoka.  Among  the 
eleven  more  decent  responses  to  the  "upsetting,  but  funny,  too  "  (H.  Sato)  - 
my  distressing/blast  is  rhyme  &  pun-born  -  draw  offered  by  Teitoku,  we 
have  "A  woman  falls  in  public  revealing  her  privates  "  (hitonaka  de  korobu 
onago  no  mae  dashite),  hardly  better.  Probably  Teitoku,  subconsciously 
desiring  a  pretext  to  take  a  jab  at  Sokan,  imagined  a  stink,  which  would 
indeed  be  a  shame  and  not  at  all  funny,  while  Sokan  originally  heard 
something  high-pitched  and  musical. 


244 


ffiz  hitotsu  wayama  no  oku  ni  mo  arinnbeshi  sumanu  kokoro  zo  okidokoro  naki  sakuden 
body-one-as4  mountains'  recess-in  even  is-ought  live=be-clear-not  heart  !  stayplace  not 

No  one  should  live  alone  back  in  the  hills,  out  of  the  way 
Unhappy  with  your  Self  where  can  you  send  him  to  stay? 

The  original  is  one  of  thousands  of  poems  playing  with  the  sumi 
homophone  of  the  verb  for  living  (residing)  and  being  pure  (clear),  none 
of  which  translate  well,  but  this  is  the  first  time  I  have  seen  the  impure,  i.e. 
restless  heart  punned  into  one  without  a  place  to  stay  {sumanu).  Because 
English  does  not  allow  the  heart/mind  to  separate  from  the  body  as  clearly 
as  Japanese  does  (see  Saigyo's  poems  in  Cherry  Blossom  Epiphany  2007),  it 
became  a  "self  and  then  a  "him." 

yamazato  ni  shirigomi  shi-tsutsu  irishiyori  ukiyo  no  koto  wa  he  to  mo  omowazu  akara 
mountn  home/town-in  hesitantly  do-while  enterd-there-frm  floatng-world-things-as4  fart  evn  think-not 

On  the  Mind  of  One  Leaving  the  World  Behind 

Since  he  retired  while  holding  in  mixed  feelings  like  a  fart, 
He  no  longer  gives  a  shit  for  the  city  or  so  he  tells  his  heart 

Since  retiring  in  the  hills  with  mixed  feelings,  God  was  kind: 
you  would  think  he  never  gave  a  shit  for  what  he  left  behind 

Up  the  mountain  he  goes,  unsure  he  would  retreat:  a  blast 
proclaims  that  the  old  fart 's  love  for  the  world  has  past. 

The  above  poem  by  kyoka's  top  master  is  fairly  well-known,  but  it  is 
debatable  how  many  moderns  slow  down  enough  to  catch  its  subtle 
meaning,  which  in  the  original  depends  entirely  on  a  close  reading  of  the 
"since"  (yori).  By  "God"  in  the  second  reading,  your  translator  refers  to 
what  is  more  commonly  called  cognitive  dissonance.  In  retrospect,  the 
reading  seems  easy  enough,  but  the  reading  copy  of  the  740-page  monster 
translates  the  Aire  for  a  Buddhist  Hermit  in  the  following  ways:  1) 
Turning  tail  on  man  /  he  lives  behind  the  times  back  /up  a  windy  hollar;  // 
&  for  the  world  or  mighty  /  Dollar  does  not  give  a  fart;  &  2)  And  backing 
into  /  the  hinderparts  where  even  /  rumors  slip  not  past  //  He  cuts  no  slack 
nor  gives  /  a  fart  for  the  entire  world.  Do  you  see  what  happened?  Play  too 
much  with  figures  of  speech  and  you  can  lose  the  larger  picture. 

Or,  maybe  not.  Your  translator  may  be  reading  too  closely.  Thinking  too 
much.  Indeed,  his  respondent  thinks  the  old  reading  is  all  there  is  to  it. 


245 


yama-zumi  wa  he  o  hiru  nomi  ka  yoru  wa  nao  kusaki  no  kaze  no  oto  bakari  naru  chie-no-naishi 
mountain-living-as-for  fart+acc  cut(=daytime)  only?  night  more  stinky=trees-grasses' sound  only  is=blast 

So,  is  life  at  land's  end  naught  but  cutting  farts  by  day  and,  then 
listening  all  night  long  as  stunted  mountain  trees  pass  wind! 

This,  found  in  the  Kyoka  Dictionary,  is  by  the  top  late- 18c  female  kyoka 
master,  Little  Ignoramus.  The  original  has  one  plain  "fart/s"  and  three  fart- 
related  puns!  Chie  no  Naishi  probably  alludes  to  at  least  two  poems  and 
one  common  trope.  One  is  Akara's  above  poem.  The  second  would  be 
Shikibu's  poem  in  her  fictional  exchange  with  Ko-Shikibu  we  saw  on 
page  212.  They  all  play  with  an  old  conceit  of  a  mountain-as-fart  (^) 
owing  to  the  resemblance  of  its  silhouette  to  the  same,  that  probably  was 
born  of  haikai.  All  are  complex,  with  this  last  positing  facetious  punning 
reasons  for  the  mountain/wilderness-life  the  most  so.  Senryu  on  the  other 
hand,  would  play  with  it  much  more  simply  -  inevitable  given  only  17- 
mora  -  by  noting  how  the  shape  of  an  outhouse  roof  is  a  fart  (740-pg 
Monster,  pg.  399).  And,  now  that  we  have  gotten  past  the  significance  of  the 
poem,  let  me  make  amends  for  the  loss  in  translation  (one  good  pun, 
passing  wind  is  not  enough  to  make  up  for  three!)  by  offering  a  paraverse: 

Mountain  hollars  are  bad  enough  by  day  you  want  to  hollar  back; 
But  night  is  worse:  the  wind  howls  each  time  you 'd  hit  the  sack! 

The  most  famous  fartsy  kyoka  is  untranslatable.  It  was  no  more  than  he  he 
he  for  the  entire  31 -mora  poem.  If  you  wish  to  see  the  full  treatment,  see 
the  740-page  Monster.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  he  means  both  fart  and  har!  as 
in  "Har,  har,  har! "  so  the  poet  is  laughing  at  the  person  who  wanted  him 
to  kyoka  a  farting  person  -  or  was  it  himself?  or  the  fart,  itself?  -  as  well 
as  recording  it.  This  simple  stereo  was  a  natural  for  Japan  where  even 
faces  had  two  ways  to  be  sketched  with  farts  (^) ! 


sato  yori  amamitsu  kami  no  imasu  koso  yamabachi  dku  arima  naru  rame  kofu 
sugar-more-than  sweet-water=heaven-filling  gods'  are  esp.  hornet  many  have=arima  is 

Tenman  Tenjin  (Sugawara  no  Michizane)  Shrine 

Sweeter  than  sugar  our  Heaven-filling  Honey-God  must  be  why 
deep  in  the  Arima  hills  we  see  so  many  hornets  in  the  sky. 

The  preface's  Tenmantenjin  Heaven-Filling-Heaven-God  is  the 

>h  H  divine-spirit  of  Sugawara  no  Michizane,  a  9c  poet-scholar  and 
minister  of  state  and  short  for  his  shrine,  one  of  many  found  throughout 


Japan.  One  must  like  a  poet  who  liked  Taoism  (his  name,  Michizane  itH 
is  literally  "road-truth,"  and  one  poem  begins  "To  avoid  noisy  places  is  my 
nature,  /  yet  I  love  the  gurgling  of  a  stream  "  (Carter  trans.)  and  regret  his 
death  "from  a  broken  heart"  at  age  53.  His  legendary  reputation  as  an  ill- 
used  but  loyal  minister  and  fear  of  his  vengeful  spirit  because  many  who 
conspired  to  get  him  banished  had  tragedies  after  his  death  gained  him 
extraordinary  posthumous  honors  and  numerous  shrines  out  of  proportion 
to  anything  he  accomplished.  His  spirit  and  shrine  name  was  pronounced 
in  the  Chinese  manner,  Tenjin,  but  Kofu,  the  editor  of  the  first  really  great 
kyoka  anthology  and  the  section  of  a  huge  kyoka  baedecker  that  treated  the 
aristocrats'  favorite  vacation  place,  the  spas  of  Arima,  chose  a  Japanese 
pronunciation,  Amamitsu,  to  gain  the  pun  on  sky-filling=amamitsu=sweet- 
honey  to  explain  the  hornets,  apt  for  his  vengeful  spirit,  too!  Scores  of 
poems  from  that  baedecker  (Japanese,  below)  are  in  the  740-page  Monster. 

utsukushiki  wakashu  kabuki-onnagata  kore  wa  sekai  no  mannaka  zokashi 
beautiful  young-crowd/gays  kabuki  woman-role  this-as-for  world's  center+emph! 

Beautiful  gay  and  gorgeous  kabuki  fake-woman  guys  - 
So,  the  center  of  the  world  is  this?  A  singular  surprise! 

Beautiful  young-crowd  &  kabuki-woman  guys,  of  course 
At  the  middle  of  the  World  we  find  creation  at  its  source! 

Lovely  youth  and  manly  actors  playing  a  woman 's  role  or 
Is  this  the  center  of  the  world  before  sex  went  bi-polar? 

Boy  beauties  and  he-men  playing  women  in  great  demand: 
If  this  is  not  the  Center  of  the  World,  well,  I'll  be  damned! 

This  one  is  not  in  the  Monster.  It  is  in  the  same  1 7c  baedecker  mentioned 
above  but  a  different  section  I  had  not  read  closely  -  as  topographic  poems 
tend  to  be  shallow  and  boring  for  the  same  reason  that  travel  itself  is  -  and 
only  found  it  today  (Sept.  5,  2009),  thanks  to  feeling  under  the  weather 
and  reading  in  bed.  Let  me  add  that,  for  me,  reading  kyoka  is  something 
like  being  a  biologist  in  a  remote  jungle.  Everywhere  one  looks, 
something  new,  i.e.,  hitherto  un-named  or  untranslated,  is  discovered.  And 
this  poem  was  an  easy  find  as  it  heads  the  section  on  the  Tokaido,  or 
Eastern  seaboard.  That  means  it  describes  Nihonbashi,  the  official  navel  - 
point  zero  in  travel  maps  -  of  Edo  period  Japan.  A  top  entertainment 
district,  it  boasted  wakashu,  or  trendy  homosexual  youth,  and  onnagata 
kabuki  actors,  the  greatest  stars  of  the  time.  While  Asai  Ryoi  is  emphatic 


247 


(~  zokashi),  and  if  "world"  had  an  easier  rhyme,  the  second  line  might 
start,  "Damned  if  this  is  not  the  center^  he  does  not  make  the  connection 
explicit.  Do  we  have  space  recapitulating  time  -a  look  back  to  Chinese 
mythic  beginnings  sharing  something  with  Plato's  concept  of  trans-  or 
poli-sexual  singularity?  Or  is  it  just  that  the  center  seems  right  for  middle- 
sex  or  transgendered  behavior?  &,  should  this  have  been  with  the  squibs? 

Because  the  connection  between  the  location  and  the  off-genders  is  not 
explicit  in  the  original,  there  is  a  strong  possibility  the  poem  originated  in 
a  comic  story  where  the  context  would  help  the  reader  fill  that  in.  As  your 
translator  is  only  now  starting  to  locate  and  try  to  obtain  comic  stories, 
there  is  always  a  chance  that  he  will  miss  something.  That,  of  course,  is 
not  only  his  problem.  Much  that  is  supposedly  lost  in  translation  is 
actually  lost  before  translation.  Knowing  that  is  one  more  justification  for 
the  "pro-active"  translation  of  the  sort  you  have  seen  in  this  book. 


takeuma  o  tsue  ni  mo  kyo  wa  tanomu  kana  warawa  asobi  o  omoiide  tsutsu  saigyo  d.l  190 
stilt+acc  cane-as-even  today-as-for  depend/pray!/?/:  children's  play+acc  remembering-as 

/  put  my  faith  in  a  bamboo  pony  as  my  cane,  today, 
Sallying  forth  with  memories  of  child-play. 

Stilts  in  the  Sinosphere  are  "bamboo  horses.  "  The  740=page  monster  has 
"living  together  with"  rather  than  "sallying  forth,"  but  the  word  for 
remembering  includes  "ide"  or  "going  out,"  so  one  can  almost  justify  this 
more  gallant  reading;  but,  even  without  it,  Saigyo 's  waka  would  be  a 
kyoka  had  it  been  written  by  a  kyoka  poet  or  comic  story-writer. 

mm  &tz&y  L%m^^^iEM(Dmt^L-\&^  miux 

kaikyu  matagarishi  uba ga senaka  o  seishin  no  uma  to  mishi yo  zo  ima  wa  koishiki  shokusanjin  d.l 823 
reminiscence  //  straddled  wet-nurse's  back+acc  true  horse-as  saw+exclam  now-as-for  dear 

P  Longing  for  Bygone  Days  P 

How  dear  to  me  those  golden  years  I  straddled  her  back 
&  Nanna  was  my  war  horse  (not  a  pony  or  a  hack). 

"War"  is  not  in  Shokusanjin's  kyoka,  but  to  any  boy,  riding  means  battles. 
Perhaps,  it  should  be  added  that  while  riding  a  person  seems  more  mad 
than  walking  on  stilts,  in  Japan,  most  little  children  were  and  still  are  more 
commonly  carried  on  backs,  where  it  takes  little  additional  energy  and 
permits  the  hands  of  the  parent,  older  sister  or  nanna  to  remain  free  than 


248 


any  other  way.  Unlike  the  Amerindian  papoose,  often  carried  in  a 
backpack  facing  toward  the  rear,  in  Japan  the  little  child  or  baby  clung 
face  down  to  the  back  so  when  a  nanna  was  old  and  bent  and  the  child 
relatively  old,  it  really  did  resemble  riding.  Let's  see  one  more  pair  of 
poems  by  Saigyo  and  Shokusanjin.  See  if  you  can  guess  which  is  which: 

ware  mo  sazo  niwa  no  isago  no  tsuchi-asobi  sate  ditateru  mi  ni  koso  arikere 
me  even!  garden  children's  dirt/mud/clay  play,  yes  age=living  self/body-w/  esp.  am 

I,  too,  am  ever  the  little  child  in  the  garden  at  play; 
The  older  I  get,  the  more  I  feel  at  home  with  clay. 


1  guess  I  am  a  mud  figure  like  kids  make  in  play, 
for  I  must  animate  myself  each  and  every  day! 

The  verb  describing  an  aging  body  is  written  with  the  character  for  live, 
grow  or  energize,  Awhile  the  pronunciation  oi  allows  aging  i.e.,  the 
reading  suggested  by  the  context  (coming  before  the  body-self  #  mi), 
despite  the  different  character.  If  my  second  reading,  by  any  chance,  hits 
the  mark,  more  than  sheer  nostalgia  animates  the  poem. 

oi  no  atama  nadete  shikiri  ni  koishiki  wa  bo  to  iwareshi  mukashi  narikeri 
age's/elderly  head  strokng  very  dear/nostalgic-as-for,  'monk'-as  calld  old-days  became! 

Stroking  my  old  head,  a  memory  clear  as  from  a  crystal  ball 
Of  a  boy  with  shaven  pate  once  called  just  'monk'  by  all. 

All  little  boys  were  called  bo  or  monk,  mostly  because  their  heads  were 
regularly  shaven  and  many  if  not  most  old  men  of  the  noble,  samurai  and 
merchant  classes  retired  and  ended  up  life  as  or  seeming  to  be  the  same. 
This  may  be  read  as  a  poem  that  welled  up  purely  from  feelings,  from  the 
actual  experience  of  the  poet.  But,  it  may  also  be  seen  as  a  clever  closing 
of  the  birth-to-death  circle  by  finding  parallels  for  the  word  bo. 

OK.  Which  was  Saigyo  (12c)  and  which  Shokusanjin  (early- 19c)?  The 
mud  poem  was  the  former;  the  head-stroking  the  latter.  While  a  crystal 
ball  was  added  for  the  rhyme  and  association  with  head,  Shokusanjin's 
monk-to-monk  cycle  had  the  obvious  clear-cut  logic  of  a  kyoka.  Saigyo 's 
mud,  in  the  manner  of  many  waka,  but  less  kyoka,  did  not  spell-out  what  it 
was  driving  at  with  "living/growing"  body,  so  your  translator  had  to  guess 
in  order  to  come  up  with  a  mad  poem  rather  than  a  "huh?"  Of  course, 
there  are  explicitly  comic  poems  in  waka  collections  and  kyoka  so  under- 
stated their  novelty  must  be  developed,  or  discovered  in  mad  translation. 


One  long  entry  from  the  Monster's  Glossary, 

part  of  which  was  given,  with  changes,  after  the  Table  of  Contents  in  this  book. 


Tanka  A  short  (3 1 -mora)  waka,  but  the  vast  majority  of  waka  were  short, 
so  they  were  almost  always  just  called  waka  or  uta  (or  ka  for  short,  or  counting, 
kubi),  and  tanka  came  to  mean  modern  waka,  a  less  exclusive  form  than 
the  classic  waka.  As  my  respondent  Yoshioka  Ikuo  and  others  have  noted 
(see  the  citation  in  the  Monster)  this  tanka  includes  much  that  would  have 
been  considered  kyoka  for  most  of  the  past  millennium,  and  is,  thus,  closer 
to  it,  but,  as  this  is  generally  not  recognized,  the  genre  is  left  without  a  true 
history.  As  frivolity  and  wordplay  is  frowned  upon  in  some  tanka  circles,  I 
do  not  expect  all  tankaists  to  love  this  book,  but  I  would  hope  others  find 
something  to  celebrate  in  the  mixed  roots  of  their  literature.  Take  the  title 
of  Tawara  Machi's  1988  tanka  best-seller,  U"7^fE;&B  Sarada  Kinenbi 
(Salad  Anniversary).  Sarada  "f~  y  ?f  is  obviously  modern  and  Occidental 
while  kinenbi  is  a  stiff  kango,  or  Chinese  word.  A  few  of  her  poems: 

Composite  me!  Every  facet  split  off  and  fly  away,  do! 
That  means  all  three  hundred  and  sixty  five  of  you! 

ware  to  iu  sanbyakurokujugo-mentai  bun  bun  bunretsu  shite  tondeyuke  tawara  machi 
i-as  called  threehundredsixtyfive-hedron/sidedpartpart  partsplit  doing  fly-go/leave! 

classroom-in  each/one-each/one's  time  fulfilled-is  ninety-two  eyeballs  and  i 
kyoshitsu  ni  sore-zore  no  toki  mitashi-oru  kyujuni  ko  no  medama  to  watashi 

A  happy  day  in  the  classroom,  how  time  flies 
for  me  and  the  pupils  of  ninety  two  eyes! 

\SM  mentai  following  365  (not  360  as  a  hyperlogical  poet  might  want)  in 
the  first  poem  makes  it  a  geometrical  body  as  surely  as  a  hexahedron  or  a 
heptahedron  is.  Composite  is  my  compensation.  The  pupils  gain  in 
translation  as  Japanese  lacks  that  particular  homophony.  Both  poems  are 
of  a  sort  we  might  call  mad  for  the  surreal  touch. 

tenkiyoho  kikinogashitaru  ichinichi  wa  ame  demo  hare  demo  hara  ga  tatanai 
weather  report  hearing-miss  one-day-as-for  rain  even  clear  even  belly  stands-not 

The  Weather  Report,  well,  I  missed  it  today, 
So  rain  or  shine,  I've  no  cause  for  dismay! 


chinmoku  no  nochi  no  kotoba  o  erabi-oru  kimi  no  tamerai  o  tanoshinde  ori 
silence's  after's  words+acc  chosing-are-your  hesitation+acc  enjoying-am 


Of  the  four  poems,  only  the  last,  added  for  contrast,  could  never  be  taken 
for  a  kyoka  and  only  the  weather  report  seems  absolutely  so,  as  it  is  clearly 
hyperlogical.  Without  the  rhyme  and  other  poetic  license  I  take  in 
translation,  most  tanka  from  Salad  Anniversary  would  not  be  considered 
mad  at  all.  I  must  play  more  with  tanka  to  better  understand  how  much  of 
my  mad  translations  are  and  are  not  me. 


PNot  noted  in  the  Monster:  Fifteen  or  twenty  years  ago,  I  sent  a  dozen  or  two  of 
my  Salad  translations  to  the  translator  of  one  of  the  two  English  translations.  She 
replied  that  she  enjoyed  the  translations  and  would  like,  with  my  permission 
(gladly  given)  to  show  them  to  her  class,  but  was  it  possible  they  might  not  be 
more  Dorothy  Parker  than  Tawara  Machi?  She  was,  of  course,  right  -  and  I  love 
Dorothy  Parker  -  but,  it  is  also  true  that  there  is  a  touch  more  Dorothy  Parker,  i.e., 
wit,  in  Tawara  Machi's  poetry  than  either  of  the  published  translations  reveal. 
After  looking  forward,  next  we  will  go  back  to  the  8c  Manyoshu,  &  note  there 
are  chapters  on  drinking  (and  smoking)  in  the  Monster  not  in  this  Reader. 


Trading  Blood  for  a  Drink  Beats  Being  a  Monkey? 


saritote  wa  kyo  mata  shichi  ni  yare  kacho  sake  ni  zo  ware  wa  kurawarenikeri  kyogetsu-bo? 
regardless  today  again  pawnshop-to  give=emph.  mosq.net  sake-by  i-as-for  eaten+emph. 


I  love  this  kyoka,  playing  upon  an  old  proverb  warning  that  a  one  begins 
by  imbibing  wine  and  ends  up  imbibed  by  it.  [The  above  is  a  chapter  lead 
as-is  from  The  740-page  Monster.  It  is  followed  by  a  witty  exchange  I 
want  in  my  obit,  but  we  shall  skip  it  here].  The  kyoka,  attributed  to  the 
monk  sometimes  called  the  founder  of  kyoka,  Kyogetsu-bo  ^MP5  (1265- 
1328),  is  not  in  any  of  the  large  17c  kyoka  compilations  only  in  the  18c 
Kyoka  Hundred  Poems  on  Sake  £E3fcM]5" "i"  attributed  to  him  {tx^M  #5  with 
a  note  claiming  it  is  pre- 1497.  Now  let  us  go  back  to  the  beginning,  or  at 
least  the  most  famous  early  Japanese  drinking  waka. 


It  tickles  me  to  watch  you  when  nothing  is  heard, 
Groping  in  the  silence  to  find  that  right  word. 


Once  again,  today 
I'm  off  to  the  pawnshop! 
My  mosquito  net 

Will  get  some  wine;  and 
I'll  be  eaten  up  this  time! 


A  man  will  drink. 
Today,  the  pawnshop  gets 
my  mosquito  net 

and  I  will  be,  literally, 
swallowed  by  my  wine! 


251 


shims hi-naki  mono  o  omowazu  wa  hitotsuki  no  nigoreru  sake  o  nomu  beku  ararashi 
results-not  things  think-not-as-for  one  cup/fill-up  of  cloudy  sake  drink  should+emph. 

When  in  doubt,  Think  not  to  rout 

don  7  think,  drink:  cloudy  wine  the  blues  but  drink  raw  wine 

will  clear  you  up.  &  they  will  cloud. 

If  love  is  one  source  of  mad  poetry,  wine,  in  this  case  made  from 
fermented  rice,  is  another.  As  every  translator  of  the  Manyoshu  (8c) 
includes  a  sip  of  Otomo  no  Tabito's  13  poems  in  praise  of  wine,  I  thought 
to  pass,  but  failing  to  find  any  pursuit  of  the  ideas  in  them,  changed  my 
mind.  This  one  plays  with  the  symbolism  of  clear  and  muddy.  With  clear 
springs  and  streams,  memories  run  deep;  specifying  cloudy  sake,  cheaper 
than  the  clear  stuff,  as  ideal  for  obscuring  thought  is  a  stroke  of  conceptual 
genius.  My  haiku-length  paraverses,  indirectly  show  my  appreciation  for 
it.  The  original  is  longer  and  simply  says  you 'd  be  better  drinking  a  full 
saucer  of  muddy  white  wine  than  thinking  about  things  thinking  does  not 
help.  The  next  poem  of  the  series  is  even  more  in  the  mode  of  what  came 
to  be  called  a  kyoka,  as  it  plays  upon  an  old  Chinese  saw. 

mm^ffl  ^  ah^  w^h^  tjm  #339 

sake  no  na  o  hijiri  to  ouseshi  inishie  no  6ki  hijiri  no  koto  no  yoroshisa  tabito 
sake's  name+acc  saint/sage  as  named  ancient  big  s/s/s  words  suitability/goodness 

S>  A  True  Conservative  to  a  Prohibitionist  J> 

The  ancient  sages  called  wine  Sage, 
So  what  gives  with  our  Age? 

The  original  says  only  that  the  great  sages  of  ancient  times  sure  did  a  fine 
thing  to  call  wine  "  H  saint.  "  Proverbs  call  clear  wine  that,  and  cloudy 
wine  "SA  sage,"  a  cut  below  saint.  As  moralists  down  on  drinking 
undoubtedly  provoked  the  response,  I  pulled  up  the  last  half  of  my  short  & 
mad  reading+title  by  its  ears  from  between  the  lines.  [&  I  took  this  from  the 
Monster  because  the  fact  Tabito's  poems  are  not  in  the  comic  book  16  of  the 
Manyoshu  proves  light  poetry  was  not  completely  segregated  in  ancient  Japan. 
The  Chinese  characters  above  are  the  orthography  of  the  original  Manyoshu, 
while  the  mixed  characters  below  are  the  way  scholars  make  it  legible  today.] 

nakanaka  ni  hito  to  arazu  wa  sakatsubo  ni  nari  nite  shikamo  sake  ni  nijimina  #343 
completely  person-as  be-not-as-for  sake-jug  into  becoming,  moreover  wine-by  stain-would 

P  Moderation,  you  say?  P 

Rather  than  play  the  half-hearted  lug, 
Let  me  soak  myself  in  wine:  I'd  be  a  jug. 


252 


P  A  Red-Faced  Riposte  to  Wrinkle-browed  Teetotalers  P 

How  unsightly  those  men  too  damn  smart  to  drink; 
They  look  far  more  like  monkeys  than  they  think! 

t  ana  miniku  sakashiru  o  sit  to  sake  nomanu  hito  o  voku  miba  saru  ni  ka  mo  mimu  #344  T 
ana  miniku  sake  ni  wa  omoimasu  kagami  soko  nam  kage  wa  saru  ni  ka  mo  niru  kyogetsu-bo 

How  ugly  my  face  in  a  square  cup,  drinking  blue 
I  look  red  as  a  monkey,  thinking  as  I  do  of  you! 

Like  all  primates,  red-faced  Japanese  macaque  have  a  way  of  wrinkling 
their  brows  as  if  thinking,  and  that  is  used  to  turn  the  table  on  teetotalers 
who  called  drinkers  "monkeys"  for  being  red-faced.  Monk  Kyogetsu  plays 
with  the  Manyoshu  poem,  punning  part  of  a  conjugation,  into  a  masuzake 
cup  which  immediately  becomes  a  mirror.  Another  of  his  drinking  poems 
is  full  of  puns:  the  man  in  the  moon,  Katsura-o,  who  pivots  into  a  male 
drinking  alone  with  nibbly/ies  that  morph  into  his  girlfriend: 

+5:^(7)^  <Dfi^b<D$ob  £/^&<DV^^^  V  &5  hh  MS 
jugoya  no  tsuki  no  katsura  no  otoko-zake  sakana  no  imo  ya  chigiri  naru  ran 
15 -night/full-moon's  laurel-male-sake,  nibblies'(that  are)  yam=girl  vow/sex  becomes! 

-  When  it's  full,  the  Man  in  the  Moon  he  drinks  like  one: 
With  potatoes  for  his  tarts,  I  guess  he  always  gets  some! 

Rather  than  choose  between  the  old  Chinese-character  Manyo  inscription 
and  a  modern  transcription,  let  us  cut  to  the  chase  and  just  romanize  the 
last,  and  most  kyoka  of  the  Manyo  series  (kono  yo  ni  shi  tanoshiku  araba 
komu  yo  ni  wa  mushi  tori  ni  mo  ware  wa  narinamu  #349): 

P  This  is  my  life  -  so  if  I  can  have  my  fun, 
I'll  gladly  be  a  bug  or  bird  in  the  next  one  P 


We  can  conclude  this  Miscellany  with  the  first  page  of  a  three-page  Appeal  to 

Academics  -  Share  Your  N6-miso  with  Me  and  the  World!  from 
the  740-page  Monster,  as-is.  It  has  one  genuine  kyoka,  an  old  one  that  genuflects 
on  the  genre.  It  is  appropriate  for  two  reasons  not  made  explicit.  The  first  is  that 
kyoka  itself  is  not  mentioned.  That  demonstrates  the  fact  that  it  is  part  of  the 
Way  of  Waka.  The  second  is  that  despite  being  a  simple  poem,  it  is  horribly  hard 
to  interpret.  That  demonstrates  why  your  translator,  who  is  terribly  unsure  of  his 
reading,  needs  and  wants  help  from  his  betters.  The  Appeal  ends  with  a  kyoka  by 
the  same,  writing  under  his  aka  WM>.  Keigu,  or,  Respectfool,  capacity.  One 
benefit  of  reading  and  translating  mad  poems  is  that  they  are  catching. 


253 


fumi  shira  wa  mekura  mo  hebi  ni  ochitsu  beshi  shiraneba  yasuki  waka  no  michi  kana  mojin 
treading  know-not-as-forblind+emph.snake-with  relax-ought  know-not-when  easy  waka-way!  17c 

Ignorance  is  bliss  -  as  they  who  no  snakes  seeing  can  relax, 
Knowing  naught  is  why  today,  The  Way  of  Waka  is  a  snap! 


(JP> 

//  ) 
1L 


In  e-mail,  my  namesake  has  a  red  breast  and  asterisk  eye,  this  robin 
is  all  ears,  or  ear  If  at  any  rate.  Ironically,  the  "L"  foot  will  not 
allow  me  to  look  in  the  usual  direction  we  draw  faces,  left.  Basic 
Font  effects  surely  should  include  a  mirror  option  -  and  90-degree 
turn  -  which  would  vastly  improve  font  as  a  drawing  tool,  i.e.  fun! 

Ignorance  is  bliss  -  as  we  who  no  snakes  seeing  can  relax, 
Knowing  naught  is  why,  for  me,  even  waka  can  be  hacked! 

Ignorance  is  bliss  -  indeed,  seeing  no  snakes,  I  can  relax 
&,  knowing  nothing,  walk  the  Way  of  Waka  -  me,  a  hack! 

Mojin,  blind-man  is  a  pseudonym.  "Blind-snake"  (m^t  mekura  hebi)  i.e., 
"The  blind  do  not  fear  things  like  snakes"  (Iffe^^'Mf  l^T  mekura  hebi 
mono  ni  ojizu)  is  the  Sinosphere's  version  of  "ignorance  is  bliss,"  usually 
Japanesed  shiranu  ga  hotoke,  or  "not  knowing  is  Buddhahood,"  which  to 
my  warped  mind  is  quite  funny,  for  if  you  are  bitten  by  a  snake,  you  might, 
indeed,  become  a  corpse,  commonly  called  a  Buddha,  or  hotoke! 
Depending  on  context,  the  poem  could  be  general  self-deprecation  of  all 
informally  engaged  in  kyoka,  (less  likely)  a  caustic  put-down  of  another's 
sally  into  waka,  or  a  disclaimer  of  expertise  with  respect  to  waka  by  the 
author,  the  last  of  which  is  fitting  for  your  translator  who  dragged  out 
hundreds  of  waka  -  intertwined  with  and,  perhaps,  one  with  kyoka  -  in 
this  book.  His  translated  old  haiku  got  almost  no  critical  reaction,  which 
is  to  say,  input  from  superior  readers  in  the  field;  but  now  that  he  treads 
not  on  snakes  but  sacred  waka  territory,  i.e.,  messing  with  a  genre  of 
poetry  many  take  seriously,  he  expects  and  hopes  for  plenty  of  criticism. 
(Do  not  be  shy.  Send  it  to  me!  Show  me  where  I  err.  Show  me  where  you 
can  do  better.  But,  please,  take  care  to  write  well.  If  your  argument  holds 
water,  it  will  become  a  gloss  -  with  your  name  on  it  -  in  the  next  edition.) 


A  kyoka  written  upon  consideration  of  the  popular  etymology 
of  the  Japanese  word  for  'language'  or  'word,'  kotoba,  H"  5H. 

If  "words  are  leaves,  "  leaving  seeds  that  sprout  in  the  mind, 
We  who  write  are  humble  ferns  and  not  the  flowering  kind. 


254 


How  Mad,  Mad  Translation? 


Half  of  an  essay  on  translation  beyond  the  pale  from  the  740-page  Monster,  with 
its  waka  examples  supplemented  by  an  additional  page  with  a  kyoka  example. 


"Anything  that  works  justifies  itself,  ipso  facto.  " 
Edwin  A  Cranston,  on  translation  (in  Waka  vol.1) 

I  tried  to  keep  my  translations  translations.  Though  I  took  extraordinary 
license,  in  this  book,  I  did  not,  on  the  whole,  paraverse,  which  is  to  say, 
create  alternative  poems  based  on  but  not  following  the  original,  as  I  do  in 
A  Dolphin  in  the  Woods.  For  an  example  of  what  I  did  not  do  -  at  least,  not 
often  -  here  is  Manyoshu  (8c)  song  #3810: 

mm  /r^im       ix#wm<3g>      w#  #  38io 

umaihi  o  mizu  ni  kaminashi  waga  machishi  kai  wa  sane-nashi  tada  ni  shi  araneba 
(tasty-rice+acc  water-w/  chewed/fermented  i  waited,  value-as-for  not  directly  is-not-if) 

To  Think  I  Could "ve 
Given  It  to  Someone  Else 
(or  even  drunken  it  myself) 

What  a  waste  of  good  saliva, 
rice  and  water  chewed  for  you 
while  I  waited,  it  turned  sour 
And  now  you  tell  me 
we  are  through! 

Now  that  certainly  seems  like  a  mad  poem  -  and  you  may  see  even 
madder  paraverses  in  A  Dolphin  In  The  Woods  (2009),  but  the  original,  I 
am  afraid,  is  closer  to  Cranston's  "It  did  me  no  good  /  To  ferment  the  tasty 
rice,  /  Brewing  with  water,  /  Waiting  for  you  -  none  at  all.  /  For  you  're  not 
here  to  have  it. "  Since  kamu  can  mean  chew  as  well  as  ferment,  and 
women  in  old  Japan  did  chew  sweet-rice  and  spit  it  into  vats  to  start  the 
fermentation,  mentioning  chewing  is  conservative  enough.  What  takes  my 
translation  beyond  the  pale,  besides  the  unique  length  of  the  lines,  is  the 
misleadingly  risque  title,  "good  saliva"  to  accent  the  waste,  souring  wine 
alluding  to  the  relation-ship  (English,  not  Japanese  idiom),  and  the  last 
two  sentences  turning  an  editor's  note  into  the  punch-line. 


In  this  book,  I  resisted  the  urge  to  explain  within  the  poems,  preferring 
outside  glosses  to  give  readers  the  pleasure  of  rereading  poems  while 
making  the  connections  themselves;  but  I  often  went  as  far  as  any  modern 
translator  to  make  sense  of  what  I  translated,  and  farther,  for,  as  I  have 
declared  in  all  my  books  of  translation,  my  policy  is  that  if  I  must  err,  let 
me  do  it  the  side  of  wit,  for,  speaking  as  one  who  has  also  been  translated 
myself,  to  be  misread  yet  thought  witty  is  preferable  to  being  turned  into  a 
bore  by  a  cowardly  translator.  I  am  sure  I  made  some  poems  mad  that 
were  not  so  in  the  original,  but  in  most  cases,  I  only  did  whatever  was 
needed  to  ensure  they  were  still  mad  in  translation. 


Another  example  that  is  not  a  recognized  mad  poem  but  a  plain  waka  from 
a  major  collection  will  make  another  point  about  mad  poem  translation: 

araoda  o  arasuki  kaeshi  kaeshite  mo  hito  no  kokoro  o  mite  koso  yamame  kks  #817 
new-plot/paddy+acc  mattock  turn  turning-even  person's  heart+acc  see  +emph.  quit! 

Note  how  different  these  translations  by  Cranston  {Waka  2d)  and  Rodd+ 
Henkenius  (Kokinshu),  respectively,  are: 

To  make  new  paddy  /  Sink  your  mattock  in  the  soil  /  Over  and  over  / 
Turn  the  heart  of  a  lover,  /  Look  close  -  and  love  will  wilt.   =  Cranston 

in  newly  opened / fields  they  turn  the  earth  again  / and  again  I'll  not  / 
give  up  until  I've  seen  his  /  heart  laid  open  as  often  =  Rodd  &Henkenius 

This  poem  first  appeared  in  the  Sarumaru  anthology  (Wt%M)  with  a 
preface  about  his  calling  on  a  fickle  or  unfaithful  woman  in  the  spring,  but 
according  to  KKS  annotator  Kyusojin,  said  anthology  is  unreliable,  so  we 
cannot  fault  R  &  H  for  "his  heart."  But,  what  does  "see  his  heart  laid 
open"  mean?  Cranston,  who  plays  safe  with  the  genderless  "lover,"  has 
the  poem  express  "contemptuous  disillusion,"  but  is  that  clear  from  his 
good  but  impersonal  translation?  It  only  makes  me  recall  Ovid's 
prescriptions  for  falling  out  of  love  by  having  us  look  close,  real  close  at 
the  human  body  and  its  various  functions.  And  I  wonder  why  anyone 
would  write  a  stand-alone  poem  to  tell  people  that  looking  inside(?) 
under(?)  a  lover's  heart  will  make  love  wilt.  Kyusojin's  reading  W(M  is: 
After  trying  time  again  to  ascertain  that  person's  real  intentions,  I'm 
going  to  cleanly  quit  (loving?  calling?).  He  also  writes  the  conjugation  of 
"quit"  shows  "intent."  Unfortunately,  the  tenses  and  intentions  just  do  not 
jive.  I  know  little  grammar,  but  I  do  know  awkward  logic  when  I  see  it. 


©  My  point:  for  waka  or  kyoka  to  be  interesting,  we  must  be  bold  enough 
to  create  clear  meaning.  Let  me  try  to  demonstrate  what  this  means: 


With  a  new  plot,  you  must  turn  the  soil  over  and  over; 
We  may  part,  but  first  I'll  sink  my  mattock  in  her  heart! 

With  a  new  plot,  we  turn  the  soil  over  &  over;  but  try 
That  with  a  human  heart  and  you  '11  watch  love  die. 

With  a  new  plot,  you  turn  the  earth  over  &  over;  I'd  try 
That  with  her  fickle  heart  -  Is  love  a  weed?  Let  it  die! 

Turn  o  'er  the  soil  the  more  times  the  better  for  a  new  paddy, 
Try  that  with  a  lover 's  heart  &  you  '11  lose  your  sugar-daddy. 

With  a  new  plot,  we  may  turn  the  earth  over  again  and  again; 
But  if  you  saw  the  underside  of  his  heart,  he's  dirt:  ditch  him! 

With  a  new  plot,  we  turn  the  earth  o'er  &  o  'er  -  Give  up? 
Until  I've  seen  his  heart  laid  bare  as  often,  no,  I  will  not! 

And  /  will  not  give  up  on  trying  to  bare  and  share  wit  in  translation 
("translation"  includes  Japanese  modern  translations  ^JliXiRffl.m.  meant  to 
explain  poems,  which  often  do  little  better  than  your  usual  English 
readings).  Let  me  give  two  more  examples  of  poems  witty  enough  to  be 
mad,  though  remain  bonafide  waka  as  they  deal,  sincerely,  with  love. 

wagimoko  ga  kozarishi  yoi  no  uchiwabite  waga  tamakura  o  ware  zo  shite  neshi 
my  sis/girlfrnd  came-not  night's  miserable  my  gem-pllw  I+emph.  doing  slept  kkrj  #3250 


I  apologize  for  not  justifying  Cranston's  translation,  left,  with  each  line 
capitalized.  For  comparison,  I  wanted  the  same  format.  Unquestionably, 
his  translation  has  more  life  to  it  than  most.  It  boasts  an  interesting 
emphatic  phrase  in  "//  was  mine  that  was  the  arm  "  and  a  good  vowel  end- 
rhyme  in  "grief/sleep.  "  That  is  much  more  service  than  one  usually  gets 
from  a  translator  in  a  world  that  expects  so  little  of  a  translation.  But,  I  still 
could  not  help  but  feel  the  original  was  more  risque.  Tamamakura,  or 
gem  (precious/  beautiful)-pillow,  has  erotic  implications  that  do  not  come 
through  in  pillow  alone  (unless,  like  David  Allen  Coe's  country  song,  said  pillow  is 


On  that  evening, 
when  my  dear  girl  did  not  come, 
utter  was  my  grief; 


On  that  night, 
my  baby  failed  to  show 
I  was  so  upset, 


It  was  mine  that  was  the  arm 
I  used  as  a  pillow  for  my  sleep. 


I  laid  my  head  upon  my  arm, 
and,  with  myself,  I  slept! 


258 


stained).  So,  I  dropped  that  pillow  for  space  to  allow  the  poet  to  sleep  with 
himself,  an  obvious  allusion  to  perverting  the  normal  behavior  of  sleeping 
with  another.  Because  Japanese  does  not  specify  second-person,  my  first 
reading  had  "you  failed  to  show,  girl"  for  the  second  line,  but  the  "girl" 
upset  my  mother,  so  I  slyly  rewrote  with  a  gender-neutral  but  even  more 
diminutive  term  of  endearment. 

hiru  wa  nakiyoru  wa  moete  zo  nagarauru  hotaru  mo  semi  mo  wa  ga  mi  narikeri  tsurayuki 
day-as-for  crying  nigh t-as- for  burning!  flowing  firefly  and  cicada+emph.  myself  become/s.kkrj  4015 

Crying  in  the  day,  /  Burning  in  the  night  I  go  /  Down  the  endless  years; 
Firefly  and  cicada  are  /  Embodiments  of  myself,  trans.  Cranston 

Crying  my  days,  burning  my  nights  away,  I 've  come  to  see 
The  firefly  and  cicada  -  they  are,  ultimately,  me. 

Crying  all  day  and  burning  all  night,  I  drift  along; 
The  cicada  and  the  fireflies  are  me:  this  is  our  song. 

Burning  nights  &  tear-soaked  days,  always  astream 
Both  firefly  and  cicada,  my  life  is  but  a  dream! 

Crying  by  day  &  burning  by  night,  I  float,  I  flame; 
Firefly  and  cicada,  in  me,  become  the  same. 

Here,  the  flowing  in  the  original  does  allude  to  the  poet's  life  as  Cranston 
elaborates  -  "endless  years"  is  added  -  in  his  fine  translation  - 
"embodiments  "  is  also  clever  for  waga  mi  is  both  the  self  and  the  body  - 
but  it  is  impossible  to  properly  credit  Tsurayuki  for  combining  a  bug  that 
cries  thereby  alluding  to  a  river  of  tears  that  float,  or  carry-off  the  crier  and 
lightning  bugs  with  their  burning  that  stood  for  passion  within  an  English 
translation.  Tsurayuki  managed  to  combine  them  by  crying  himself  a  river 
to  float  down  as  he  burned,  but  to  grasp  the  appropriate  nature,  or  natural 
fitness  of  the  combined  conceit,  we  need  to  know  that  the  firefly  was 
strongly  associated  with  streams  in  Japan.  How  much  so?  Enough  that 
there  are  waka  where  water  splashing  becomes  sparks  and,  centuries  later, 
Issa  -  punning  on  the  homophone  for  shallows/rapids  and  back  (both  are 
se)  -  even  joked  in  haiku  that  they  were  moxa-combustion  treatment  for 
ole  man  river's  back!  I  could  not  communicate  that  world  of  associations 
and  tried  to  compensate  in  translations  mad  enough  to  become  paraverses 
rather  than  readings  of  the  original. 

The  problem,  in  short,  is  that  if  we  do  not  add  something,  the  loss  in 
translation  is  so  great  that  all  who  appreciate  the  genius  of  the  original 
themselves  feel  like  crying  a  river,  jumping  in  and  throwing  away  the 
towel.  That  is  bad,  isn't  it! 


259 


Two  final  examples  of  poems  that  cannot  be  properly  yet  well  translated. 
One  is  a  kyoka;  one  a  kyoshi.  We  have  seen  such  cases  where  the  loss  in 
translation  was  made  up  in  one  way  or  another,  but  these  are  poems  where 
it  could  not  be.  Rather,  the  solution  was  paraversing:  "Analogous 
translation"  of  either  the  content  or  failing  that,  the  rhetorical  device/s. 


suzume-dono  no  oyado  wa  doko  ka  shiranedomo  choccho  to  gozare  sasa  no  aite  ni  shokusanjin 
sparrow-sir's  dwelling-as-for  where  know-not  but  a  bit/a  nip  have+pol.  drink=bamboo  companion-as 


The  above,  left,  rhymes  Blyth's  translation  (My  dear  Mr.  Sparrow,  / 1  have 
no  idea  /  Where  you  reside,  /  But  won 't  you  just  come  /  And  have  a  drink 
with  me?).  Imagining  Shokusanjin  sitting  on  the  thin  veranda  that  skirts 
most  old  Japanese  houses,  allowed  "here  or  inside.  "  The  sasa  in  the 
original  means  both  "a  drink,"  one  of  the  etymologies  of  which  is  "Come 
on!"  -  echoed  in  the  cho  'cho,  i.e.,  "just  a  moment"  and  "just  a  wee  bit" 
-  as  in  soliciting  one  for  a  drink  together  (another  etymology  has  it  short 
for  "sake,  "  repeated),  and  the  tiny  bamboo,  sometimes  translated  as  sasa 
grass,  where  this  bird  was  typically  depicted.  Thus,  it  pun-answers  what 
the  poet  supposedly  does  not  know!  Blyth  once  noted  in  respect  to  Cock 
Robin,  within  a  larger  essay  on  the  fallacy  of  the  so-called 
anthropomorphic  fallacy  that  the  Sparrow  had  to  have  shot  the  arrow. 
Rhyme's  reason  is  undeniable.  My  point  is  that  pun  is  equally  or  more 
convincing  and  if  it  is  lost  in  translation  must  be  replaced  with  something. 
The  above  right,  recording  what  I  observed  at  the  feeder  just  out  my 
window  and  in  the  farm  supply  store  where  my  sister  repeatedly 
complained  about  the  rise  in  the  price  of  sunflower  and  other  bird-seeds, 
managed  to  keep  the  familiar  address  of  a  bird  and  a  pun,  but  lost  the  plot. 
That  set  me  to  thinking  of  a  more  closely  analogous  pun. 

My  dear  Mr.  Fox,  I've  no  idea  at  all  where  lies  your  den; 
But,  do  join  me  for  a  nip?  And,  why  not  bring  the  Vixen? 

The  "nip"  together  with  the  need  to  rhyme-justify  the  "den"  required  the 
fox.  True,  fewer  foxes  come  inside  than  sparrows.  But,  Issa  did  leave 
New  Year  presents  at  fox  dens  and  a  tanuki  (racoon-faced  fox)  once 
jumped  through  my  window  landing  right  on  my  desk,  so  it  seems 
perfectly  normal  to  me.  And  nip  also  has  the  same  friendly  feeling  of  the 


My  dear  Mr.  Sparrow 
I  have  no  idea  at  all 
where  you  reside; 

But  won  'tyou  join  me 
for  a  drink,  here  or  inside? 


You  hungry  titmice, 
Stop  cheeping  for  more; 
don 't  quarrel,  be  nice! 

Cheep!  Cheep?  Not  quite! 
Bird-feed  just  went  up  in  price! 


.  .    ■     I     !  . 


cho  'cho  to  (just  a  wee  bit/little  while)  which  is  not  only  psychologically 
apt  in  a  general  sense,  but  for  evoking  the  small  jerky  movements  and 
chirps  of  the  sparrow  in  particular.  A  crow  can  mean  an  old  gentleman 
dressed  in  black,  but  a  crow  would  never  be  invited  to  drink  cho  'cho  to. 
(rather,  an  interrogatory  ~ka  expanded  to  a  ~kaa!  after  caw!).  My  question 
for  the  reader  is  this:  could  one  say  the  witty  fox  poem  is  closer  to  the 
original  poem  than  the  lame  translations  (Blyth's  or  mine)  of  the  sparrow? 
And,  how  valid  is  an  analogous  reading  as  translation?  (If  the  poem  is  in  a 
story  and  the  narrative  is  not  hurt  by  making  a  sparrow  a  fox  .  .  .) 


Wan  wan  wan  wan  mata  wan  wan.  /  Mata  mata  wan  wan  mata  wan  wan  / 


IJb^?  *t  &  //F#tl^  o  Rough!  Rough!  Rough!  Rough!  Again,  Rough!  Rough! 

^F^W^  Xl^E^  o  Again!  Again!  Rough!  Rough!  Again,  Rough!  Rough! 

^Blff^/E'tijf^^T'o  In  the  dark  of  night,  I  couldn 't  tell  the  number  of  mutts, 

#&$t-H       *t  *  o  From  start  to  finish,  I  just  heard  Rough!  Rough!  Rough! 

This  Chinese-style  mad  verse,  or  kyoshi,  by  Gubutsu*  (in  $Ef#"fi"4"£E 
W{±±),  or  Silly-Buddha,  titled  dog-bite-meet  ^^-p%  or,  The  Dog  Fight, 
has  been  called  an  example  of  proto-Dadaism  in  Japanese  poetry  by  a 
Princeton  Encyclopedia  that  wrongly  credited  it  to  Shokusanjin.  The 
Chinese  character  used  for  the  barking,  or  ruff-ruffing  does  not  mean 
"rough"  but  "bowl.  "Be  that  as  it  may,  if  dogs  were  barking  to  be  fed  so 
the  "bowl"  became  significant  as  punning  mimesis,  we  would  at  least  have 
doggerel,  but  this  is  not  even  up  to  mutterel.  With  about  fifteen  minutes 
of  work,  however,  it  was  easy  enough  to  work  the  ruff=rough  idea  into  a 
mad  exchange  in  English: 


Tom  Cat  said,  "Dog,  you  have  such  an  eeeasy  life! 
Your  Wives  don 't  scratch,  they  only  bite  -  Meow! " 

"Tom,  "  said  Mutt,  "Who  is  free  to  play  all  night? 
Fve  a  Master  to  obey!  I  have  it  rough!  Ruff!  Ruff! " 


The  "cheap,  cheap"  cheeping  titmice  was  analogous  to  the  original  in 
terms  of  rhetorical  device  and  kept  the  bird,  but  this,  where  even  a  cat  is 
brought  into  the  picture,  is  not  even  a  paraverse  of  the  original.  It  is  no 
more  than  a  new  poem  born  of  the  idea  of  punning  on  the  stereotypical 
sound  our  pets  make. 

Your  translator,  who  has,  aside  from  translating  one  novel,  no  experience 
with  fiction,  had  never  composed  anything  remotely  like  it  until  he 
struggled  with  kyoka  and  kyoshi  for  Mad  In  Translation. 


Mad  Bios  -  a  section  taken  as-is  from  the 
Irregular  Biography  of  The  740-page  Monster 


Piet  Hein  (Honorary  Mad  Poet)  1905-1996/4/17.  Short  philosophical 
rhymes  called  gruks  or  grooks  by  Piet  Hein,  Danish  scientist/math- 
ematician/ designer-poet  -  best  known  for  his  super-eggs  as  large  as  the 
Stockholm  traffic  circle  or  as  small  as  the  balanceable  gold  and  silver  eggs 
used  as  ice-cubes  and  various  board  games  -  were  popular  in  English 
translation  in  the  1960's  and  70's,  but,  unfortunately,  seldom  seen  today. 
Unlike  Ogden  Nash's  poems,  many  dated  by  detail,  grook  humor  is 
largely  logical  and  a  good  selection  of  them  will  read  as  well  a  thousand 
years  from  now  as  today.  The  shortest  is  "Co-existence,  or  No  existence  " 
(though  it  also  has  an  interesting  title),  and  all  come  with  an  elegantly 
simple  line-drawing.  Hein  inscribed  the  1979  printing  of  the  1968  book 
Runaway  Runes  for  me  as  follows:  I've  tried  to  Haiku,  /  You,  Robin  Gill, 
should  try  too  /  With  your  Hai  I.Q.!  The  pun  is  less  haiku  than  kyoku,  but 
decades  down  the  road,  with  my  brain  considerably  shrivelled,  I  took  him 
up  on  it.  Perhaps  the  same  year  -  I  have  misplaced  the  letter  -  he 
informed  me  he  went  by  train,  from  the  new  capital  to  the  old  one  - 
Tokyotokyotokyotokyotokyotokyotokyoto.  That  is  a  masterpiece  with  both  a 
perfect  mimesis  of  rail-travel  and  a  simple  yet  surprising  wordplay  with 
the  snapper  saved  for  the  last  syllable.  It  deserves  to  be  at  least  as  famous 
as  van  den  Heuvel's  one  word  haiku  (tundra).  At  the  time,  I  knew  he  first 
became  famous  writing  under  a  pen  name  during  the  German  Occupation, 
but  not  how  it  worked.  Now,  I  read  that  "Losing  one  glove  /  is  certainly 
painful,  /  but  nothing  /  compared  to  the  pain,  /  of  losing  one,  /  throwing 
away  the  other,  /  and  finding  /  the  first  one  again  "  was  a  cryptic  message 
for  the  Danes  not  to  collaborate,  for  liberation  would  come.  If  I  did  not 
catch  that,  who  knows  how  many  Japanese  kyoka  I  likewise  have  failed  to 
pick  up  on!  Piet  Hein's  kyoka  sense  is  felt  in  his  wordplay,  such  as  the 
above  examples  or  when  he  confesses  about  his  country  Denmark  that  ".  .  . 
we  have  no  raw  materials.  /  We  have  no  power.  /  We  have  know  how, " 
and  in  his  hyper-logical  concepts,  such  as  when  he  finds  no  cow  a  horse 
and  no  horse  a  cow  is  "one  similarity,  anyhow, "  or  confesses  that  we 
ought  to  live  each  day  as  if  it  were  our  last  below,  but  as  a  senior  he 
knows  that  doing  so  would  have  killed  him  long  ago,  and  makes  a  halo 
into  a  horizon  (title:  circum-scripture  (!))  .  .  .  Were  it  not  for  concern  for 
copyright  (I  have  no  time  to  properly  edit  now,  much  less  seek 
permissions),  I  would  serve  up  a  dozen  of  his  grooks  entire,  right  here,  for 
poems  that  are  conceptual  rather  than  descriptive  or  narrative  -  except  in 
so  far  that  plotting  to  keep  the  snapper  at  the  tail  -  are  all  too  rare  in 
popular  literature  today,  and  the  grooks  would  provide  a  convenient  mirror 
on  kyoka.  I  say  "convenient"  not  the  "only"  because  a  broad  search  of 
meta-physical  (I  have  only  pulled  some  poems  from  Herrick  here)  and 
other  16- 19c  English  poetry,  especially  anything  called  "epigram,"  will 


provide  many  more  matches  but  it  takes  some  doing  to  find  enough  good 
short  ones,  while  the  grooks  are,  for  the  most  part,  already  mad,  as  I  define 
it.  Here  is  one  example  of  a  kyoka  (epigram)  by  Swift: 

Behold!  a  proof  of  Irish  sense; 

Here  Irish  wit  is  seen! 
When  nothing's  left  that's  worth  defense, 

We  build  a  magazine. 

A  footnote  explained  that  old  Swift,  driving  out  with  his  physician, 
observed  a  new  building  and  asked  what  it  was  designed  for.  Told  that  it 
"was  a  magazine  for  arms  and  powder,"  upon  which  he  wrote  this  into  his 
pocket-book.  This  reminds  me  of  the  rakushu,  or  political  lampoon  sort  of 
mad  poem.  Anyone  with  time  and  access  to  the  Old  English  Poetry  data 
base  is  welcome  to  try  to  find  English  language  'matches'  for  the  kyoka  in 
this  book. 


Rydkan  1758-1831.  Ryokan  came  from  a  family  rich  enough  to 

have  helped  his  talent  blossom  into  a  lucrative  career  as  a  popular  haikai 
master  (paid  by  students  for  hosting  parties  and  judging,  etc.)  in  the  city, 
but  he  chose  to  become  a  Zen  monk  and  live  in  a  remote  village,  where  he 
wrote  poetry  in  various  traditional  and  invented  styles.  While  witty,  he 
was  remarkably  mellow.  While  my  impression  is  based  on  the  limited 
number  of  his  poems  I  could  find  on-line,  I  read  enough  to  note  that  they 
tend  to  make  us  smile.  The  downside  is  that  we  rarely  laugh  aloud;  the 
upside  is  that  none  of  his  poems  leave  us  with  a  sour  taste.  Until  I  find 
and  read  all  of  his  poetry,  I  cannot  say  whether  we  will  find  many  more 
excellent  mad  poems  such  as  the  charming  wingless  tqfu  (pg.86).  My 
favorite  of  his  poems  seen  to  date  is  a  tanka  (one  that  seems  too  modern  to 
call  a  waka  but  too  sincere  to  call  a  kyoka)  on  plants  he  evidently 
neglected  to  water  "Plucking  violets  /  by  the  roadside  -  Ah!  /  my  potted 
plants!  / 1  forgot  all  about  them,  /  my  poor  potted  children!"  (iM^^wHo 
^ooi+fZ^^StiT^rJfc  LK<£>#£(£>iL&r  michinobe  no  sumire  tsumi-tsutsu 
hachinoko  o  wasuretezo  kishi  sono  hachinoko  o).  He  had  many  versions 
of  this,  mentioning  they  are  pitiful  in  one  and  there  is  no  one  who  will  take 
(and  care  for?)  them  in  another.  Such  paraversing  proves  it  must  have 
been  a  favorite  of  his,  too.  Here  is  another  bluesy  favorite  in  a  style  similar 
to  that  of  Issa: 

ware  danimo  mada  kuitaranu  shira-gayu  no  soko  ni  mo  miyuru  kagebdshi  kana 
i/me+emph  too  still  eat-suffices-not  clear-soup's  bottom-on  even  see-can  shadow-monk! 

'I,  too,  have  yet  to  eat  my  fill! '  -  Yes,  in  my  gruel, 
Even  my  shadow  looks  so  hungry  it  could  drool.  " 


263 


He  may  have  gotten  the  idea  partly  from  the  Tales  of  Ise,  where  a  woman 
as  she  is  about  to  wash  her  face  looks  into  the  tub  and  laments  to  see 
another  as  blue  as  her,  but  his  wording  does  not  at  all  reflect  that.  In  other 
words,  the  poem  has  zero  intent  to  be  a  parody.  An  overly  fine  point, 
perhaps,  but  I  think  it  neatly  sums  up  Ryokan's  relation-ship  to  the  world 
of  poetry.  He  is  not  alone,  but  he  is  independent.  Burton  Watson  writes 
that  Ryokan  "stands  in  magnificent  isolation  from  all  contemporary 
schools  and  poetic  theories,  drawing  inspiration  from  the  eccentric  T'ang 
Buddhist  poet  Han-shan  and  writing  poetry  that  blithely  ignores  many  of 
the  technical  dictates  of  traditional  Chinese  verse.  "  I  would  guess  he  also 
read  17c  kyoka.  Keene  writes  of  his  poems  that  "all  of  this  is  endearing, 
but  Ryokan 's  poetry  seems  to  belong  to  Japan  rather  than  to  the  world.  " 
Would  he  write  that  today,  when  sushi  and  tofu,  even  without  wings,  have 
made  it  to  the  world's  supermarkets  and  haiku  has  come  to  be  increasingly 
well-known?  The  kyoka,  or  should  I  say,  conceptual  part  of  his  work 
seems  universal  enough  to  me! 


Saigyd  WfT  (1 1 18-90).  Born  into  a  low-ranking  clan,  he  became  a  monk 
in  his  early  twenties,  when  he  spent  much  of  his  time  in  the  Capital.  Later, 
he  spent  most  of  his  life  as  a  traveling  ascetic  or  sage-hermit,  remaining  in 
touch  with  the  top  high-ranking  court  poet,  Fujiwara  no  Shunzei  (see 
Shunzei).  His  confidence,  as  a  powerful  man  skilled  in  martial  arts  and  an 
extraordinarily  creative  thinker,  is  reflected  in  his  bold  poetry.  While  he 
loved  poetic  conceits  and  punning  -  the  very  first  poem  in  his  Sankashu 
anthology  takes  the  question  posed  by  the  first  song  of  the  Kokinshu  (905) 
on  what  to  call  the  year  on  the  solar  spring  when  it  precedes  the  lunar  New 
Year  and,  adding  rain  to  the  mix,  makes  what  on  first  sight  seems  only  the 
verb  for  rain  "falling=furu"  pivot  into  the  adjective  "Old=furu"  (^t  L  t> 
ftfSfc &  -  h(Dfy  IT  haru  to  shi  mo  nao  .  .  .) 

to  modify  the  Year.  I  assume  it  really  rained,  too,  as  from  start  to  finish  - 
Saigyo's  poetry  is  well-grounded  in  reality,  physical  or  psychological. 
His  world  was  a  large  one,  and  he  wore  his  melancholy  on  his  sleeve  with 
grace:  "When  you  think  /  you  alone  know  the  blues,  /  You  find  another  / 
and  want  to  go  to  China  /  to  pay  him  a  visit!"  (^Scfi/O*  D  t>  COS^A^X  t> 
fo<5  chi|f±J;Tf  t>#feTL;^c£  ware  bakari  mono  omou  hito  ya  mata  mo 
aru  to  todo  made  mo  tazunete  shi  gand).  And  that  world  was  also  small, 
in  the  best  sense  of  the  word:  "Waking  alone  from  sleep  on  my  straw  mat, 
my  tears  are  drawn  by  a  cricket 's  song.  "  (t>  t  'O  £tf)CD0fi(D  £  if  L  5 

l^Mi^'f' 9  hitori-ne  no  nezame  no  toko  no  samushiro  ni 

namida  moyosu  kirigirisu  kana).  While  the  cricket's  delicate  chirp  has  an 
irregular  grain  and  plaintive  tone  that  affects  me  far  more  deeply  than  the 
controlled  bellowing  and  shrieking  of  opera  appreciated  by  people  with  a 


different  sensibility  than  mine,  my  tears  were  drawn  by  a  different  insect, 
the  bell  cricket,  whose  name,  higurashi,  or  "day-darkening"  relegated  it  to 
evenings  in  poetry.  I  very  rarely  cry  for  anything  but  a  cold  wind  and  the 
fact  the  floodgates  were  opened  by  a  dawn  chorus  and  Saigyo  mentions 
waking  from  sleep  proves  to  me  that  he  is  putting  personal  discoveries  (not 
the  same  as  trope  or  confessions)  into  poetry,  something  all  too  rare.  He 
has  94  poems  in  the  Shinkokinshu  (1205),  more  than  any  other  poet. 


Sanekata.  111^  Fujiwara  no  ~  9587-998.  His  boldness  is 
extraordinary,  or  at  the  very  least,  extraordinary  to  have  come  down  to  us, 
thanks  to  his  being  well-connected;  but  he  is  not  so  unerring  a  poet  as  the 
other  Casanova  poet,  Narihira,  for  his  metaphors  are  often  sloppy.  One 
telling  example:  S!£rUf^^&<0/Nf^£i&S^btr&<  6  h  Lfe^t> 
C  h  MJfWtM  ha  shigemi  miyama  no  kage  ya  magauramu  .  .  .  . 

When  evening  cicada  sing  at  daybreak,  he  claims  it  is  caused  by  the  thick 
mountain  underbrush  keeping  them  from  knowing  it  ever  dawned. 
Actually,  higurashi,  contrary  to  their  name,  always  cry  at  dawn  as  well  as 
dusk.  Nobleman  who  stayed  up  late  would  probably  fall  asleep  shortly 
before  they  cried  and  might  be  pardoned  for  not  knowing  that,  but 
considering  the  fact  these  evening  cicada  do  not  continue  singing  once  it 
becomes  dark,  the  poem  falls  apart.  Yet,  this  carelessness  -  it  still  beats 
kks  #204!  -  may  be  what  made  a  large  percent  of  his  work  (and  I  have 
only  seen  some  online  at  the  site  where  I  first  learned  of  him,  there  might 
be  more)  kyoka.  I  gave  him  two  chapters  mostly  to  hint  at  the  size  of  the 
mother  lode  of  kyoka  by  whatever  name  it  was  written  or  published. 


Shikibu  %uM.&ffl  (Izumi  Shikibu  c.970-1030).  Not  Murasaki  Shikibu, 
author  of  The  Tale  of  Genji  whose  hundreds  of  waka,  while  often  witty, 
are  so  in  context  of  the  novel  and  too  subtle  for  the  logic-in-your-face 
kyoka.  This  Shikibu,  who  had  far  more  poems,  67,  in  the  Goshuishu 
(1086),  than  any  other  poet  -  over  twice  as  much  as  the  top  male  Monk 
Noin's  31,  plays  with  logic  in  ways  that  make  many  of  her  waka  seem  like 
kyoka  or  something  close.  "The  nameless  book"  (Mumyo-zoshi  cl200), 
probably  authored  by  Shunzei's  Daughter  (actually  grand-daughter),  raves 
"It's  hard  to  believe  that,  though  a  woman,  Izumi  Shikibu  composed  so 
many  excellent  poems.  It  may  be  due  to  some  karma  she  acquired  from  a 
previous  life,  for  I  can't  imagine  such  talent  springing  from  the  present 
world."  (trans.  Michele  Marra).  To  my  mind,  she  is  to  waka  what  Chiyo  is 
to  haikai.  I  put  dozens  of  never-before  Englished  haiku  by  Chiyo  in 
Cherry  Blossom  Epiphany  because  I  never  tire  of  her  wit.  In  this  book,  I 
tried  to  do  the  same  with  Shikibu's  waka,  but  I  am  not  as  much  at  home  in 
waka  as  I  am  in  haikai,  so  I  can  only  cross  my  fingers  and  hope  I  got  most 
right!  Most  of  the  examples  describe  the  high  boundary  of  kyoka,  which 


is  to  say  they  are  waka  with  a  touch  of  mad  spirit  in  my  opinion.  Two  I 
missed  that  are  in  Carter  make  my  point.  The  first  (tsurezure  to  sora  zo 
miraruru  omou  hito  ama  kudarikomu  mono  naranaku  ni),  borrows 
considerably  from  his  fine  translation,  the  second,  only  the  caption  and 
first  word. 

My  idle  eyes  turn  to  the  sky, 
Though  it 's  not  as  if  the  man  I  wait  for 
will  descend  from  heaven! 


©  written  when  pondering  the  uncertainty  of  the  world  © 

Being  someone  not  a  soul  will  miss  -  while  I  am  here, 
Should  I  say  it?  "Alas,  poor  Shikibu,  I  knew  her  well! " 

shinobu  beki  hito  mo  naki  mi  wa  aru  ori  ni  aware  aware  to  ii  ya  okamashi 
miss/mourn-ought  people  evn  not  persn/self-as4,  is/exist  time-in  pitifl  pitifl  say  put  should? 


Shokusanjin  Hj|1jA  1749-1823.  Also,  Yomo  no  Akara.  Affl:S:#:I|$o 

ax\  ztixn<0  &wtuft<Dftmx*m\-&ftfcmm&foz>te,  ±m 

j^wAo  Born  into  a  poor  samurai  family,  Ota  Chojird,  commonly  called 
Ota  Nanpo/  Nampo,  his  general  purpose  nome  de  plume,  wrote  mad 
waka,  or  kyoka,  and  mad  Chinese  verse,  or  kyoshi  from  his  teens,  first 
publishing  as  Yomo  no  Akara  IZS^t^JI  for  the  former  and  Neboke  Sensei 
ft'l^Tfe^fe,  Professor  (or  Doctor)  Sleepy-head,  for  the  latter.  As  Yomo  no 
Akara,  he  edited  and  published  the  book  that  started  the  Tenmei  kyoka 
boom  at  the  same  time  Kisshu  (see  above),  did  his.  Unlike  Kisshu's 
anthology  arranged  the  easy  way,  by  author,  his  anthology  arranged  by 
season,  theme,  and  je  ne  sais  quoi  was  a  resounding  success.  It  was 
published  on  New  Year  of  Tenmei  3  and  when  he  held  a  party  for  his 
mother  in  the  third  month  of  that  year,  celebratory  kyoka  came  from  more 
than  180  people!  Edo's  kyoka  boom  was  on!  Later,  he  would  adopt  the 
name  Shokusanjin.  In  this  book,  as  a  rule,  I  use  the  name  used  by  my 
sources.  The  baldest  and  boldest  expression  of  his  philosophy  of  life  is 
probably  this: 

UttD^te&bMb&fflLteV  if 5 9 &V^d>  mm) 
yononaka  wa  iro  to  sake  to  ga  kataki  nari  dozo  kataki  ni  meguriaitai 
world-as-for  color/sex  and  sake  the  enemies  are,  please  enemies+dat.  meet-want 

Sex  and  sake,  our  enemies,  are  what  all  men  must  face  - 
Blessed  it  is  to  have  such  foes  I  would,  instead,  embrace! 


In  this  world,  sex  and  drink  are  said  to  be  man 's  foes 
That  I  could  be  so  lucky  to  have  such  foes  in  droves! 


Had  politics  not  turned  conservative  and  forced  him  to  retire  from  an 
active  and,  as  he  would  put  it,  snowballing,  literary  career,  allegedly 
because  of  his  being  a  friend  of  a  man  executed  for  corruption/political 
reasons  and  for  suspicion  of  writing  lampoons  he  never  admitted  to 
writing  -  actually,  I  would  guess,  to  nip-off  a  potential  threat  in  the  bud  - 
he  would  have  become  wealthy  as  a  poet-editor,  for  his  wit  was  intelligent 
yet  open  to  all  and  his  editorial  and  inter-class  organizational  skills 
extraordinary.  I  have  not  seen  enough  of  his  kyoshi  (Chinese  style  mad 
poems)  to  judge,  but  he  is  generally  credited  with  making  both  minor 
genres  of  mad  poetry  into  major  ones.  I  think  kyoka  was  so  popular  under 
Teiryu  et  al  in  Osaka,  that  it  may  be  more  a  matter  of  making  it  equally 
popular  in  the  capital  city,  but  Shokusanjin's  poems  are  so  delightfully 
fresh  -  and  so  many  of  Teiryu's  all  too  predictable  -  that  it  is  tempting  to 
credit  him  with  everything.  While  I  have  published  some  of  Shokusanjin's 
old-age  and  poverty  complaints  in  this  book,  he  was  not  dirt-poor  like 
yours  truly.  He  could  afford  to  enjoy  nights  out  attending  plays  with  his 
mistresses  right  up  to  his  death.  The  real  tragedy  of  his  relative  lack  of 
wealth  was  that  it  forced  him  to  work  and  kept  him  from  retiring,  thereby 
depriving  him  of  the  opportunity  to  concentrate  on  the  arts  full  time.  That 
poverty  was  a  crime,  for  considering  his  high  scores  on  the  civil  service 
exams,  he  deserved  a  much  higher  post.  But  such,  like  most  good 
ambassadorial  assignments  in  Usania,  depended  not  upon  accomplish- 
ments but  on  the  pull  of  the  wealth  he  did  not  enjoy.  I  ft  t  I>H#  5  o 


Shozan  Hill  1718-1801.  Nothing  of  his  is  in  this  book;  but,  believe  me, 
any  haikai  master  who  lives  into  his  80's  wrote  plenty  of  kyoka.  It  is  not 
because  they  did  do  so  after  becoming  senile  but  because  people  full  of 
good  humour  live  long.   His  haiku  in  reveal  a  mind  not  shy  of 

conceptual  wit  and  I  expect  that  if  I  ever  get  to  see  his  unedited  poems  H 
Kll  (not  yet  in  print)  there  will  be  kyoku  galore  and  maybe  a  cache  of 
kyoka.  Because  haiku  researchers  discard  kyoka  and  kyoka,  and  kyoka 
researchers  (such  as  there  are)  do  not  research  haikai  poets  not,  like 
Teitoku,  officially  into  kyoka,  my  guess  is  that  most  of  the  best  (those  / 
would  like,  at  any  rate)  kyoka  have  not  yet  to  be  type-faced! 


Shunzei  ikj£Jn'gtjK.3<@ij$  1 1 14-1204.  This  master  of  the  grand  empress's 
household  office  and  father  of  Fujiwara  no  Teika  famed  for  choosing  the 
Hundred  Poets  One  Poem  Collection  may  well  be  the  greatest  kyoka  poet 
before  Shokusanjin.  I  say  that  judging  from  the  small  sampling  I  have 
come  across  here  and  there  that  indicate  a  diverse  subject  matter  and 
extraordinary  wit.  I  hope  to  find  more  of  his  poems  and  give  him  a  chapter 
or  two.  Meanwhile,  here  is  another  of  his  poems.  It  is  from  the  "sea"  umi 
section  of  the  1333  Fuboku  ^t)v  collection,  every  bit  as  sophisticated  a 
trick  as  anything  Shokusanjin  et  al  came  up  with.  I  tried  (Every  river  has 
a  head,  but  flowing  all  end  up  at  sea;  Such  headless  equality,  no  gods  but 
the  Buddhahead!)  but  am  afraid  it  cannot  be  Englished,  for  the  pivotal  pun 
of  upriver=A:am/=gods  leading  us  to  the  ocean,  which  having  no  such 
upriver  or  kami  is  the  Atman  or  Buddhahead,  would  be  utterly  lost  in 
passage  (JUttW^^tlV^  Xftffcfttlft  0  ^f*i&^&  t  t  ttft  *)  <9  ft 
^Sli  E§"1i"JI|  kawa  wa  mina  nagare-irite  wa  umi  nareba  umi  wa 
kami  naki  hotoke  narikeri  shunzei  :  JI|_L<£>#^-=^#0  fA£r$l  i  JLa£ 
"C5©3%  hifcfrhM  IS  just-so  story!). 


Socho  1448-1532.  This  monk  and  link-verse  master  was  student  of 
the  witty  link-verse  master  Sogi.  He  is,  together  with  Teitoku,  the  only 
notable  link-verse  master  included  in  Kyoka  Taikan  (Broadview)  and, 
thanks  to  Mack  Horton,  his  wit  is  known  in  the  English-speaking  world. 
One  particularly  sexy  sequence  Horton  translates  includes  the  following 
17-14  syllabet  poem  (which  I  borrow  with  changes  such  as  improper 
enjambment  for  rhyme,  and  a  hint  at  one  missed  pun)  shows  his  skilled 
wordplay: 

ware  yori  mo  seitaka  wakashu  machiwabite  +  fudo  mo  koi  ni  kogarasu  mi  ka 

How  he  waits  &  waits  for  the  lad  Seitaka,  who  stands  above 
Himself-  Fudo,  unmoving,  burns  with  his  unrequited  love! 

Cetaka  (sk)  an  attendant  of  Acala  (sk)  is  called  Seitaka  in  Japanese.  That  is 
homophonous  with  tall  (setaka  or  seitaka).  Acala  (sk)  is  called  Fudo, 
literally  "un-moving."  That  is  not  explained  in  the  poem,  but  as  it  was  the 
one  thing  (burning  for  love  though  not  moving  -  if  you  recall,  men  like 
cats  literally  moved  around  for  love)  overlooked  in  Horton's  otherwise 
satisfying  and  generous  notes,  .  .  .  Horton  does  point  out  that  this  vulcan 
god  is  always  depicted  with  a  nimbus  of  flames,  which  makes  this  a  good 
facetious  just-so.  Note  that,  as  this  is  link-verse,  right  and  left  of  my 
hyphen  are  separate  lines  by  separate  poets  and  the  first  could  only  refer  to 
a  tall  young-crowd  (gay  youth)  and  only  becomes  the  name  of  the 
attendant  with  the  clever  cap,  which  I  guess  is  by  Socho,  though  the  link- 


verse  session  had  six  or  seven  participating  and  individual  lines  are  not 
credited.  I  would  bet  there  are  more  sources  for  Socho  kyoka  than  the 
collections  translated  by  Horton  and  given  in  Kyoka  Taikan. 


Sogi  1420-1502.   Judging  from  his  hokku,  or  haiku,  Sogi  has  far 

more  wit  than  the  only  adjective  that  ever  graces  his  name,  "orthodox," 
might  suggest.  That  is  why  my  Cherry  Blossom  Epiphany  has  scores  of  his 
haiku.  I  have  not  yet  read  any  collections  or  journals  of  his  and  the  only 
31-syllabet  poem  of  his  in  this  book  is  one  moralistic  kyoka.  One  reason  I 
suspect  there  are  kyoka  riches  out  there  to  be  found  is  an  exchange  with 
Socho  found  in  one  of  the  28  episodes  from  Anrakuan  Sakuden's  1,000+ 
anecdote  Seisuisho  (1623)  or  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep,  translated  by  H. 
Mack  Horton.  You  may  find  it  beautifully  laid  out  over  two  pages  in  the 
booklet  published  as  part  of  an  episodic  festschrift  for  Howard  Hibbett  by 
Highmoonoon  Press  (2001).  Here,  I'll  deparse  and  despace  with  slashes 
and  equal  signs,  but  otherwise  leave  it  without  my  usual  interference 
because  it  is  perfect  as  is  to  reveal  Sogi's  playfulness: 

Strained  Etymologies  (1.1.5)  [Title]  //  One  evening  when  Sogi  and  his 
disciple  Socho  were  walking  on  the  beach,  they  came  upon  a  fisherman 
hauling  in  nets  covered  with  seaweed.  //  "What  do  you  call  that?"  they 
asked.  /  The  fisherman  replied,  "Some  say  me,  some  say  mo. "  /  "That 
would  make  a  good  renga  link"  Sogi  remarked,  and  he  composed  this:  // 
me  to  mo  iu  nari  /  mo  to  mo  iu  nari  =  Some  say  me,  Some  say  mo.  //  He 
then  asked  Socho  to  provide  a  rejoinder.  Socho  composed  the  following: 
//  hikitsurete  /  nogai  no  ushi  no  /  kaerusa  ni  =  Leading  home  /  oxen  that 
were  /  out  to  pasture.  //  Female  oxen  make  the  sound  unme  when  they 
low,  and  male  oxen,  unmo.  Sogi  was  impressed.  //  Then  Socho  asked  his 
master  for  a  verse  in  return.  Sogi  composed  this:  yomu  iroha  /  oshiyuru 
yubi  no  /  shita  o  miyo  =  Look  beside  the  finger  /  that  points  to  those 
syllables  /  in  the  iroha.  //  Me  comes  after  the  yu  of  yubi  [finger]  in  the 
iroha  syllabary,  and  mo  comes  after  the  bi.  (Ibid) 

Iroha  is  the  famous  syllabary  poem  and,  as  Horton  explains  in  his  notes, 
the  lack  of  diacritics  allows  the  syllabet  (my  word)  hi  T>  to  also  be  read  bi 
U.  Somewhere  else  in  this  book  I  mentioned  not  borrowing  this  episode 
as  I  quoted  Horton' s  wee  booklet  too  much  already,  but  not  imagining  any 
better  proof  of  Sogi's  ability  to  have  written  extraordinary  kyoka  than  this, 
could  not  help  myself.  This  is  the  sort  of  odd  associative  leap  that  marks 
the  best  work  of  Shokusanjin.  If  it  turns  out  to  have  been  apocryphal, 
brewed  by  "the  Kyoto  abbot  and  tea  connoisseur  Anrakuen  Sakuden 
(1554-1642)"  well,  so  be  it.  In  that  case,  his  kyoka  need  to  be  ferreted  out. 
And,  here,  by  the  way,  is  #351  of  360  kyoka  from  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep 
IIBS^  collected  in  Broadview $£WtXW.  #H: 


waga  mono  to  hoshisa  no  mama  ni  fade  nomite  yobari  shi  no  ta  no  mori  no  chabozu  sogi 
my  thing  so  desiring-as  nettle  drinking  night-pissing-doing's  plot's  woods'  tea-monk 


Until  I  read  the  accompanying  story  in  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep,  this  is  all  I 
can  do.  "Doing"  night-piss  puns  into  a  toponym,  a  place  famous  for  a 
white  fox  that  became  a  woman.  Thanks  to  haikai,  I  knew  tade  tea  was 
drunk  by  men  as  a  diuretic.  It  made  them  piss  rivers  and  may  have  helped 
with  a  type  lumbago  that  swelled  the  balls,  flushed  kidney  stones,  relieved 
the  prostate,  killed  infections  or  whatever.  The  dictionary  gives  over  a 
dozen  names  in  English  and  Latin,  including  "a  lady's  thumb," 
"gentleman's  cane"  "kiss-me-over-the-garden-gate"  and  a  "water  pepper" 
(as  for  the  W.C.?).  The  tade  in  idiom  suggests  "each  to  his  taste,"  or, 
"some  prefer  nettles."  I  met  a  Greek  on  Key  Biscayne  who  says  nettles 
make  a  fine  diuretic  soup,  so  that,  too  matches!  It  is  not  "a  piss-a-bed,"  as 
dandelion  owns  that  fine  aha.  Combining  such  tastes  with  ideas  of  free 
indulgence  is  masterful.  Possible  puns:  tade=tada,  i.e.  just  drinking; 
yobari=yobare,  i.e.,  called  (to  Shinoda).  A  "tea-monk"  served  tea  in  a 
palace  and  came  to  mean  "a  toady,"  so  it  may  be  meant  in  a  self- 
deprecatory  manner.  I  was  tempted  to  introduce  monkey  for  such  a  monk, 
but  that  would  be  too  Humpty-Dumpty  even  for  me.  Combining  the  final 
self-deprecation  with  the  initial  claim  to  utter  freedom  is,  again,  masterful. 
But,  I  am  sure  that,  if  this  really  was  by  Sogi,  we  need  to  try  to  find 
whatever  remains  of  his  informal  poetry,  for  the  top  linkverse  master  may 
well  have  been  the  top  kyoka  master  as  well! 


Free  to  drink  all  the  piss-a-bed  I  wish,  and  'tis  no  crime 
to  go  at  anytime  for  a  monk  in  the  woods  of  Shinoda 
if  called  would  love  to  steep  a  fox  in  rhyme! 


Tea-toady  me! 
Out  thru '  the  woods  I  trip 
at  night  to  pee; 

Pissabed  I  chug  not  sip: 
Even  serving,  old  is  free! 


It's  all  mine  and 
yes,  I  am  free  as  'some 
prefer  nettles; ' 

To  go  out  at  night  &  piss 
whatever 's  in  the  kettle 


Some  prefer  nettles 
I  suck  a  lady 's  thumb,  tea: 
so  I  am  free  to  go 

When  foxy  nature  calls  me 
into  the  Shinoda  woods  at  night! 


Sdkan  1458-1546.  Monk  and  haikai  master  known  for  bringing 
link-verse  down  to  the  level  of  folk,  he  wrote  many  ku  that  might  be  called 
kyoku,  such  as  this  poorer-than-  thou  complaint  'Wo  clothes  for  me  /  as  the 
year  draws  to  a  close  /  this  evening!"  ^<tlTAitt)<tL^^W^5^ 
toshi  kurete  hito  mono  kurenu  koyoi  kana.  The  original  uses  a  pun  popular 
with  kyoka:  kure  as  "ending"  and  "giving."  Clothing  is  not  specified,  but 
was  the  most  common  gift,  so  I  borrowed  it  for  art's  sake.  Cf,  Blyth's 
syntactically  and  semantically  closer  translation:  "The  year  draws  to  its 
close;  / Nobody  gives  me  anything  /  This  evening.  "  HK  1.).  Sokan's  single 
kyoka  death  verse  (tell  them  I  have  business  in  another  world)  tells  us 
more  about  his  down-to-earth  wit  than  all  the  knee-jerk  Bashoite  criticism 
of  his  supposed  worthlessness  combined.  As  the  introduction  to  Jinkyu's 
work  (see  above)  mentions  Sokan  next  to  Bokuyo  as  a  great  kyoka  wit,  I 
bet  more  can  be  found  for  another  edition. 

A  Lonely  Eve 

the  year  leaves 
but  nobody  leaves 
a  thing  to  me. 


Let  me  add  that  Sokan  has  been  treated  as  a  worthless  poet  for  putting 
handle  on  the  moon  to  make  a  fan,  where  it  is  probable  he  was  joking 
about  the  idea  of  the  summer  and  fall  moon  as  cooling.  Also,  the 
underlined  phrase  was  just  added,  as  was  the  final  translation  of  the  poem 
that  finally  finds  a  way  to  carry  the  original  pun  into  English!  Why  didn't 
that  translation  for  the  kyoku  pop  up  before?  It  would  seem  that  a  year  of 
struggling  with  translating  mad  poems  bore  fruit.  Now,  your  translator 
must  see  if  he  can  squeeze  it  back  into  the  740-page  Monster. 

Hopefully,  the  same  benefit  will  go  to  good  readers! 

Note  that  about  half  of  the  poets  in  this  small  sample  are  waka  poets. 
They  boast  a  larger  percentage  of  the  total  poems  in  the  740-page  Monster 
than  in  this  Reader,  where  clear-cut  kyoka  have  been  given  priority. 


P  Saigyo.  I  was  tempted  to  remove  the  heading  for  Saigyo  because  the  poems 
given  are  not  kyoka.  That  is  because  most  of  Saigyo's  waka  that  may  be  found  in  the 
text  of  the  Monster  clearly  are  (or  could  be  so  called)  and  the  biography  aimed  to 
create  a  more  rounded  picture  of  the  great  poet. 

Sogi.  The  words  "too  Humpty-Dumpty  even  for  me. "  Humpty-Dumpty 
famously  excused  an  odd  usage  of  a  word  as  his  right  to  insist  his  words  meant  what 
he  intended  them  to. 


Mad  History  -  a  section  of  the 

Short  &  Inadequate  yet  Extraordinarily 
Broad  One  in  The  740-page  Monster 

This  page  from  part  V  of  the  history  in  the  back-matter  of  the  Monster  shows 
how  translation  may  stray  from  original  detail  to  near  the  original  wit  and  hints  at 
the  abundant  historical  detail  in  the  larger  book  in  case  anyone  cares  to  read  it. 

While  a  subtle  wit  pervades  the  entire  next  major  anthology,  the  Kokinshu 
(c  905),  so  the  serious  and  the  comic  are  still  mixed,  many  of  the  most 
playful  poems  are  segregated  from  the  others  and  named.  Book  10,  titled 
"Thing-Names  #5^,"  contains  waka  with  exceptionally  tricky  punning, 
acrostics,  and  other  wordplay.  Book  19,  "Sundry  Forms  $tffc,"  contains 
various  sections  with  titles  based  on  the  form,  i.e.  number  and 
arrangement  of  syllabets.  The  largest  section  has  fifty  seven  haikaika  Wf-Wi 
Wi,  or  haikai  songs,  about  which  Kaneko  wrote  (and  I  concur),  "these  are 
beyond  any  doubt,  what  later  would  come  to  be  called  kyoka. "  (jit(7)#feb 
Wifcb  !9  t^U^-f^^m^W((DBW{^h^).  At  the  same  time,  however, 
he  made  an  important  qualification.  Because  Shunzei,  in  the  12c,  may 
have  said  that  "kyoka  are  haikai"  (  r^fg t  V^fi£E®;ft  <9  J  ffP^HTSJ  , 
{ELL{Jxf£1Ir  ^  LlA)  before  long,  haikai,  or  those  blowing  its  horn,  came  to 
claim  that  haikai  were  the  only  legitimate  form  of  kyoka  ^tftf^fftifcco^^r 
J£*-CKlE<E>£E€fcT*fc5  t  ikMLfc^M^A* .  That,  Kaneko  makes  clear,  is 
mistaken.  If  anything,  haikai  are  but  one  form  of  kyoka  f#  L#mf  llftd^E®; 
C-frt'feot,  RcD,FLT~ef3:&V\  I  concur,  but  hasten  to  add  that  here, 
haikai  does  not  mean  the  entire  span  of  what  we  now  call  haikai,  either. 
To  the  editors  of  the  Kokinshu,  for  example,  it  would  have  meant 
humorous  light  verse,  mad,  perhaps,  but  lightly  so,  and  written  in  a 
language  as  elegant  as  any  waka  and  concerning  accepted  natural  or 
cultural  themes.  Here  is  one  used  as  an  example  by  Kaneko: 

^(D^^^tcnm^^^T q&    lt  m\&m  s^-m  905 

yamabuki  no  hana-iro-goromo  nushiya  tare  toedo  kotaezu  kuchinashi  ni  shite  sosei 
keria  flwr's  colord-robe  ownr-as4  who  askng-but  replyng-not  jasmn=mouthlss-as  being 

To  whom  belongs  this  cape  of  globe  flower 's  pure  gold? 
-  It  must  be  Jasmine,  for,  when  I  ask,  I  am  not  told! 

The  owner  (nushi)  of  the  globe  flower  (keria  or  wild  rose)-colored  robe  is, 
one  assumes,  human,  but  bringing  up  the  jasmine  in  the  last  half  of  the 
poem  turns  it  into  a  question  about  the  identity  of  the  dye  (remember,  a 
flamingo  pink  garment  did  not  necessarily  cost  a  bird  his  life),  which  is 
answered  by  silence,  as  jasmine  in  Japanese  is  kuchinashi,  or  "mouthless" 


by  name).  If  you  wish,  you  might  replace  Jasmine  with  Chrysanthemum. 


To  whom  belongs  this  Keria  colored  cape?  -  Anyone? 
Aster,  I'd  say,  for  when  I  asked  her,  she  stayed  mum. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  the  poem  by  monk  Sosei  (d.909)  is  indeed  a  dyed  in  the 
wool  kyoka,  or  one  type  of  kyoka,  the  elegant  artful  haikai  type.  The 
Kokinshu  may  have  more  witty  poems  than  the  Manyoshu,  but  Kaneko's 
point  that  they  cover  a  narrower  range  of  topics  holds  water.  Readers 
who  follow  evolutionary  biology  might  think  of  the  Manyoshu  as  This 
Wonderful  Life,  i.e.,  pre-Cambrian  primary  diversity,  though  it  was  not 
meteors  or  volcanoes  but  tight-assed  editing  that  lopped  off  many  thick 
branches  of  poetic  memes  from  the  official  tree  of  Japanese  literature  (I 
know,  S.  J.  Gould  may  have  played  up  the  difference;  the  same  can  be  said 
for  contrasting  the  Manyoshu  and  Kokinshu.  The  latter  is  more  lively  than 
sometimes  realized.  We  may  need  to  see-saw  back  and  forth  on  this). 

What  follows  is  new,  in  lieu  of  a  real  "History" 


HlStOry  for  the  mOSt  part  iS  Old  hat.  By  presenting  many 
poems  by  Yuchoro,  Getsudokan  and  others  who  are  barely  asterisks  in  what  has 
been  written  about  kyoka  to  date,  your  translator  challenges  his  predecessors  for 
failing  to  fully  appreciate  16  and  17c  kyoka  and  indirectly  helps  to  write,  or 
rather,  right  history.  Literary  history,  like  natural  history,  is  also  for  the  most  part 
taxing.  It  grows  from  definition.  If  you  think  all  comic  31 -mora  Japanese  poetry, 
serious  or  light,  is  kyoka,  your  history  draws  from  a  much  broader  poem  pool 
than  one  allowing  only  kyoka  called  kyoka,  and  infinitely  more  vast  than  one 
limited  to  Tenmei  era  kyoka.  Because  there  is  no  consensus  about  these 
fundamentals,  at  this  time,  one  can  contribute  more  to  an  eventual  full  and  fair 
history  by  bringing  poems  to  public  attention  -  definition  by  demonstration  - 
than  by  actually  writing  it.  Indeed,  a  selection  of  poetry  to  cover  a  field  of  poetry 
is  a  definition  of  the  same.   Still,  a  history  of  kyoka  would  be  nice  to  have. 

The  most  thorough  history  to  date  is  Kaneko  Jitsuei's  Small  History  of  Kyoka  $E 
HpC'hife,  which  prefaced  a  collection  of  Shokusanjin's  kyoka  MlhMM.  published 
in  1927.  Kaneko  took  the  history  back  long  before  the  first  appearance  of  the 
word  kyoka  connected  to  a  literary  genre  (as  opposed  to  one's  own  poem  so 
called  for  humility's  sake),  championing  the  8c  Manyoshu  as  a  hot  bed  of  mad 
poetry,  with  the  "dramatically  kidding  songs  0JIJ£ijft"  of  book  16  deemed  to  be 
all  kyoka  R>X$EWl. "  As  noted  above,  he  also  found  the  haikaika  of  book  19  of 
the  early- 10c  Kokinshu  what  would  later  be  called  kyoka,  but  felt  the  freedom  of 
the  Manyoshu  was  missing.  He  lamented  the  increasing  exclusiveness  of  art 
poetry,  as  reflected  by  the  segregation  of  high  waka  and  low,  of  the  serious  and 
the  comic  into  separate  chapters  for  haikai  and  wordplay  in  the  latter.  I  find  more 
comic  in  the  Kokinshu  outside  of  these  chapters  than  any  one  else  does,  but  that 


273 


division  did  indeed  grow,  and  was  formalized  in  the  12c  when  the  high  form, 
identified  with  sincere  feeling,  was  called  ushin  W  >b  ushin  {have-heart/ 
mind/meaning/ 'sentiment),  while  the  low  one,  identified  with  the  frivolous,  was 
called  M>\^(mushin=no-heart/mind/meaning/  sentiment),  and  parties  engaged  in 
each  were  said  to  gather  about  the  Persimmon-tree  (Kaki-no-moto)  or  the 
Chestnut  tree  (Kuri-no-moto),  respectively.  To  what  extent  they  were  different 
schools  of  poetry  or  different  modes  of  poetry  engaged  in  by  the  same  poets  - 
one  as  work  and  one  as  entertainment  -  is  not  clear.  In  1191,  Teika,  best  known 
as  the  editor  of  the  Hundred  Poets  One  Poem  anthology,  described  an  evening 
kyoka  salon  and  a  poet,  or  poets  participating,  as  good  at  kyoka  (  l~0  0  A^tJcfl: 

HA  —  ^-(D^z).  While  comic  31 -mora  waka  went  back  to  the  beginning  of 
literacy  in  Japan,  this  was  the  first  confirmed  use  of  the  word  kyoka  for  a  type  of 
poem.  While  these  kyoka  were  supposedly  yomisute  (read  and  tossed)  so  what 
happened  below  the  Chestnut  Tree  stayed  below  the  Chestnut  Tree,  chances  are 
some  were  written  down,  and  may  eventually  be  found. 

Judging  from  what  Broadview  offers,  kyoka  never  died.  The  ten  pairs  of  poems 
in  a  14c  work,  Cake  vs.  Wine  Poem  Match.,  (Mochi-Sake  Uta-awase)  judged  by 
prime  minister  Nijo  Nyobo  exemplify  the  best  spirit  of  light  verse.  Ikkyu  and 
Chikamasa's  Zen  exchange,  if  real  (not  to  mention  other  Ikkyu  poems)  show  the 
mad  spirit  alive  in  15c  didactic  poetry.  Yuchoro  proved  that  outrageous  poetry 
that  was  not  pure  Zen  was  possible  in  the  16c.  The  1623  book  of  comic  stories  or 
miscellany  by  Anraku  Sakuden,  a  wee  part  of  which  H.  Mack  Horton  translated 
as  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep,  the  1640  anon.  Fake  Ise,  or,  Nisemonogatari 
parodying  the  Tales  and  other  kanazoshi  are  full  of  kyoka  and  preview  the 
diverse  and  unexpected  associations  and  take-offs  found  in  the  hip?  surreal?  mid- 
and  late-Edo  gesaku  low-lit,  including  the  Tenmei  era  kyoka  all  too  often 
regarded  as  the  start  of  kyoka  as  a  genre  and  the  only  worthwhile  kyoka  ever 
written.  The  1643  Four  Life  (types)  Poem  Match  H^fecT)!^,  with  59  pairs  of 
elegant  kyoka  contesting  the  aptness  romantic  complaint  or  celebration  by  the 
respective  animal  or  plant  (bugs,  birds,  fish,  beasts)  represented,  deftly  judged  by 
editor/poet?  Choshoshi  ATJftlli^  previews  the  best  of  late- 18c  kyoka  in  the 
sophistication  of  the  poems  and  the  ancient-style  pseudonyms.  While  Teitoku, 
the  leading  haikai-master  of  the  first  half  of  the  16c,  organized  kyoka  parties  and 
published  some  of  his  own,  he  did  not  give  kyoka  his  all  so  Mitoku's  1649  I  Sing 
My  Collection,  the  658-poem  Gagin  Wagashu  ^^^kM,  became  the  first  large 
collection  of  kyoka.  A  top  haikai  master  and  wordsmith  extraordinaire  -  fifteen 
of  the  kyoka  are  palindromes!  -  his  kyoka  are  as  sophisticated  as  any  by  the 
Tenmei  kyoka-masters.  His  many  parodies  of  classic  waka  and  proverbs  diverse 
than  anything  before  (earlier  parodies  tended  to  concentrate  on  complete  works). 
The  first  large  multi-author  collection  of  note  is  the  1061 -poem  1666  Ancient  and 
Contemporary  Savage/  Barbarian  Song/poem  Collection  Kokin  Ikyoku-shu  l^f  4" 
M  ft^tjl,  called  Savage  Poems,  in  this  book.  This  collection,  like  no  other,  proves 
there  is  a  comic  31 -mora  poem  tradition  in  Japan  of  which  parody  is  but  a  small 
part  and  which  includes  but  is  not  dependent  on  wordplay  as  complex  -  and 
impossible  for  most  poets  to  hope  to  follow  -  as  that  of  Mitoku  (though  63  of  his 


poems  are  in  it).  The  poems  were  gathered  and  edited  by  Kofu  over  decades, 
with  help  from  students  of  Teitoku  and  Teitoku,  himself,  when  he  was  alive. 
Meanwhile,  Bokuyo,  a  physician,  wrote  charming  kyoka  as  pun-filled  as  those  of 
Mitoku,  but,  to  my  mind,  more  endearingly  personal.  Keene,  who,  unlike  me, 
judged  Bokuyo  unreadable  today,  credits  him  with  promoting  a  taste  for  kyoka 
among  upper-class  samurai.  Then,  to  finish-off  the  17c,  we  have  Getsudoken,  a 
maverick  noble  Ayd£a-master  of  the  following  generation  who  may  be  the 
bawdiest  poet  in  the  history  of  Japan.  He  is  well-represented  in  this  book;  no 
more  needs  to  be  said  except  that  he  is  not  well  known  in  Japan.  Teiryu,  a  self- 
consciously professional  kyoka-mastev,  who  created  what  might  be  called  a  far- 
reaching  franchise  of  kyoka  based  in  but  not  limited  to  Osaka  to  fill  the  first 
decades  of  the  18c  is  more  famous.  His  poems  are  for  the  most  part  technically 
good  but  mechanical  next  to  Getsudoken's  more  personal  works.  Unfortunately, 
Broadview 's  anthology  of  kyoka  publications  ends  about  1740  and  the  other 
material  I  have  starts  in  the  early  1780's,  so  the  mid-18c  must,  for  now,  remain 
blank.  Our  history  resumes  with  waka  poet  Gatei  £tf  %  £  encouraging 
Karagoromo  Kisshu  to  start  the  first  Edo  kyoka  group.  He  included  Ota  Nanpo, 
who  quickly  became  known  as  the  kyoka  genius  Yomo  no  Akara  and  started  his 
own  group.  Tenmei  kyoka  began  with  a  bang  when  young  Kisshu  and  Akara 
competitively  published  two  big  collections  of  kyoka  in  1783.  Kisshu's  had 
selected  poems  chaptered  by  author,  while  Akara  arranged  them  by  theme  and 
with  the  editorial  flair  required  to  hold  our  attention.  His  book  became  so 
popular  it  kicked  off  a  kyoka  fad  in  Edo  that  had  begun  to  snowball  by  the  time 
his  1785  follow-up,  the  Tokuwakago  kyoka  shu  (source  of  most  Tenmei  kyoka  in 
the  Monster)  created  an  avalanche  great  enough  to  pretty  much  bury  the  past.  The 
dynamism  of  the  early- 1780  kyoka  groups  came  partly  from  being  integrated  - 
i.e.,  samurai  mixed  with  commoners,  but  this  development,  or  movement,  was 
stopped  cold  by  a  conservative  "reform"  that  clamped  down  on  such  social 
mixing  and  increased  censorship.  Yomo  no  Akara,  suspected  of  having  penned  a 
couple  squibs,  was  forced  to  retire  from  active  kyoka  activities.  He  kept  writing 
as  Shokusanjin,  but  was  no  longer  a  public  figure.  In  the  early- 19c,  Edo  kyoka 
experienced  a  new,  more  modest  bloom  upon  sumptuous  prints  that  treated 
mostly  traditional  themes,  the  safest  thing  considering  the  government  -  as 
appropriate  for  the  New  Year  when  such  surimono  were  presented  to 
clients/patrons.  And  then,  kyoka  is  said  to  have  died  out.  My  respondent  opined 
that  Shiki  killed  it  by  starting  modern  tanka,  which  permitted  so  many  things 
haute  culture  waka  did  not  allow  that  the  escape  valve  of  kyoka  was  no  longer 
needed.  True,  but  some  waka  poets  -  Kotomichi  the  best  example  -  beat  Shiki  to 
the  punch  by  decades;  they  were  just  unable  to  land  the  knock-out  blow.  Nada 
Inada  believes  it  was  a  change  in  the  social  espirit,  from  one  with  the  leisure  to 
play  with  words  to  one  with  time  for  business  alone,  and  that  this  preparation  for 
the  industrial  revolution  was  in  the  air  even  before  it  actually  landed  in  Japan. 
McKee  notes  the  death  of  the  last  major  poets  with  Tenmei  roots.  On  final 
thought,  I  feel  that  people  who  write  this  and  that  form  of  poetry  or  prose  are 
always  around  and  it  is  more  a  matter  of  whether  or  not  they  are  graced  with  a 
public.  In  fact,  even  in  the  Tenmei  heyday  of  kyoka,  I  would  bet  that  we  can  find 
thousands  of  kyoka  like  those  of  haikai-master  Issa,  hitherto  utterly  unknown. 
And  if  a  famous  poet's  could  be  overlooked,  just  imagine  .  .  . 


^4  cknowledgementS  (&  let  this  be  the  Afterword) 

The  740-page  Monster,  as  monsters  will,  grew  so  fast  there  was  no  time  to  accrue 
the  usual  pile  of  debts.  Indeed,  90%  belonged  to  one  person,  Yoshioka  Ikuo 
^.^k  a  tanka  poet  and  fellow  researcher  of  kyoka,  who,  doing  his  best  to  keep  up 
with  my  flood  of  questions,  generously  gave  me  hundreds  of  hours  of  his  time. 
When  I  write  "my  respondent,"  it  usually  means  him.  Without  his  advice,  I 
might  not  bought  Kyoka  Taikan  (1982)  the  book  that  made  me  make  Mad  In 
Translation  a  large  introduction  to  a  larger,  overlooked  genre,  instead  of  a  tiny 
book  with  a  few  hundred  Tenmei  (late  18c)  kyoka  and  some  old  waka  for 
comparison's  sake.  As  a  tanka  poet  well- versed  in  waka,  he  did  not  always  agree 
with  my  reading  of  specific  waka.  His  measures  of  what  is  what  is  more  exacting 
than  mine.  But  such  was  a  difference  of  degree.  We  both  felt  from  the  start  that 
the  world  of  waka  was  diminished  by  the  marginalization  and  exile  of  the  comic, 
and  I  came  to  see  his  concern  that  a  lack  of  attention  to  the  same  deprived 
modern  tanka  of  its  rich  history  and  indirectly  made  it  all  too  easy  for  bores  to 
validate  their  taste  as  "traditional."  Please  do  not  hold  him  responsible  for  my 
numerous  mistakes.  That  monster  grew  so  large  so  fast  I  did  not  find  time  to  ask 
even  half  the  questions  I  should  have  and  he  did  not  have  time  to  answer  all  I  did 
ask,  though  he  gallantly  tried  to  do  so.  ★  I&cd^v^I®:»  h  hfo  V  £-t~o 

L.C.,  a  scholar  whose  reading  ability  in  Japanese  and  English  vocabulary  are 
light-years  ahead  of  mine,  had  pressing  matters  over  the  year  I  wrote  this  book 
and  was  unable  to  answer  more  than  a  few  short  questions  about  waka,  but 
deserves  a  mention  for  it  was  he  who  inadvertently  got  me  started  on  this  book 
about  a  year  ago  by  replying  to  my  question  about  whether  anyone  had  really 
translated  more  than  a  mere  sampling  of  kyoka.  "No,  "  he  replied,  adding  that 
if  anyone  could  do  so,  it  would  have  to  be  me.  He  opined  that  mad  poems 
tended  to  be  too  allusive  to  be  pleasurably  translated  "but  with  your  approach 
(paraversing  with  copious  commentary)  I  expect  something  could  be  done, 
maybe  something  very  effective.  .  .  and  wondered  "might  not  a  rich  swathe  of 
entertaining  commentary  and  perhaps  multiple  /  optional  versions  allow  the 
patient  reader  to  go  back  and  get  the  jokes?  I.e.,  I'd  be  delighted  to  be  proven 
wrong,  and  you  are  the  one  person  I  know  who  might  be  able  to  do  so. 

Mizukaki  zKS  >K  of  theYamatouta  website  -  a  labor  of  love  with,  not  one  but  a 
hundred  waka  each  for  a  hundred  ancient  poets  (the  Japanese  equivalent  of  Annina 
Jokinen's  Luminarium  for  metaphysical  poets)  -  responded  to  questions  about  the 
honest  shigure  waka.  He  contributed  indirectly  by  putting  Shokusanjin's  Hun- 
dred Poets  parody  and  most  of  the  1785  Hundred  Demon  Night  Frenzy  on  line.  I 
could  not  have  shared  them  with  you  had  he  not  made  them  public.  He  did  not 
finish  up-loading  the  latter  as  he  experienced  some  of  the  bad  luck  historically 
associated  with  it.  As  one  too  snake-bit  to  be  scared  of  snakes,  who  trusts 
because  he  must  in  the  good  luck  of  bad  luck,  I,  hereby,  declare  his  unlucky 
streak  over,  and  hope  he  will  put  the  last  part  of  the  book  on  line. 

Gohongi  Hiroko  of  Taikado,  a  used-bookstore  for  efficiently  getting  me  books 
without  which  this  book  could  not  have  been  written.  Non-fiction  requires 
sources.  We  who  are  not  novelists  cannot  just  make  up  this  stuff. 


276 


John  T.  Carpenter  responded  rapidly  and  fully  to  a  query  about  the  content  of 
Reading  Surimono  and  told  me  of  Daniel  McKee's  surimono  books  as  well. 

Edwin  A.  Cranston  responded  to  questions  about  some  waka  he  translated.  My 
greater  debt  to  him,  however,  is  indirect.  His  books  contained  much  of  value.  He 
has  gathered  more  fresh  poetry  than  any  other  Japanese-English  translator. 

Stephen  M.  Forrest  provided  a  web  address  for  Aston's  book  of  Japanese 
literature.  He  did  so  because  I  asked  a  question  on  PMJS  (pre-modern  japanese 
studies).  I  thank  Michael  Watson  for  starting  &  others  for  keeping  the  group  alive. 

H.  Mack  Horton  responded  with  good  humor  and  with  just  the  information  I 
needed  about  the  framing  of  a  certain  poem  in  Anrakuden's  Laughs  to  Banish 
Sleep.  Another  of  his  translations  was  also  useful.  See  the  annotated  biblio. 

Lawrence  Marceau  for  also  responding  with  good  humor  to  questions  about  a 
couple  poems  in  respect  to  this  book  (not  the  Monster). 

John  Solt  publisher  (highmoonoon  press)  of  episodic  festschrift  for  Howard  Hibbet, 
for  sending  me  a  fine  sampling  of  comic  writing,  including  Laughs,  above. 

Takanashi  Hiroko  at  Elon  University  for  responding  instantly  to  my  request  to 
see  her  paper  (I  could  not  afford)  on  orthography  and  punning  as  exampled  by  kyoka. 

Roger  K.  Thomas.  Learning  of  his  writing  about  late- 18  and  19c  waka  and  kyoka 
at  last  moment,  I  wrote  and  he  immediately  responded  with  a  copy  of  his  article 
on  Kotomichi's  understanding  of  the  naturalness  of  using  foreign  words. 

All  my  friends  in  haiku  at  Satin  Doll  for  moral  support  that  keeps  my  spirits  up. 
One  haiyu,  Miyoko,  failed  to  find  and  send  me  a  sample  of  the  summer-sheets  (a 
waffle-weave)  I  hoped  to  convince  someone  in  Usania  to  sell  for  they  save 
energy  by  making  sweat  comfortable,  but  found  other  comfortable  sheets  of  a 
weave  far  superior  to  ours  which  have  made  me  comfortable  year-round.  When 
one  owns  nothing,  such  little  things  mean  alot.  Her  contribution  helped  me  sleep 
and  that  helped  me  dream  and  my  dreams  helped  me  translate.  (She  also  sent 
something  a  month  ago  that  was  probably  lost  by  the  USPS  or  stolen  from  the  box). 

My  mother  prepared  me  for  mad  translation  from  childhood  by  changing  Peter 
Piper  to  Porky  Porpoise  picking  plankton,  introducing  me  to  Ogden  Nash,  the 
honorary  kyoka  poet,  Piet  Hein,  and  Knutson's  Flattened  Fauna,  to  name  some 
that  found  their  way  to  the  Reader. 

Peter  Dale  for  offering  to  read  and  help  edit.  I  was  too  busy  reading  and  writing 
to  take  him  up  on  it,  but,  the  vote  of  confidence  helped. 

Interlibrary  loan  in  Alachua  County  for  half  a  dozen  books  from  4-08  ~  3-09. 
And  to  the  Ringling  Library  for  both  McKees,  N.  Texas  for  offering,  Nebraska 
for  sending  Carpenter  &  HU's  Yenching  for  the  Broadview  Index. 

And  should  I  mention  Chen  Zhixing  whose  AI  igo  program,#i£  Handtalk,  I 
play  a  quick  game  before  work  each  day,  just  to  see  if  my  mind  is  ready  to  go? 

Finally,  I  thank  and  beg  the  pardon  of  others  I  ought  to  have  noted.  JR,  sending 
$200  for  just  3  books  worth  half  of  that;  AK,  for  assuring  me  with  his  interest 
that  this  book  was  not  written  in  vain  ...  I  am  grateful  to  all  who  let  me  know 
my  work  is  appreciated,  for  living  with  little  bread  and  less  intercourse  -  trapped 
earless  in  the  sticks  of  Usania  -  one  lives  on  hope,  and  that  you  give  me. 

*5«^^"9  £Lfc0  &  «t5L<*3KV^L*i-0     ®C=Rr  -rdg 


MAD  BIBLIOS  annotated  &  occasionally  critical 


a  much  longer  version  in  the  740-page  Monster  may  be  viewed  online 
Japanese  -  Not  alphabetical  but  in  descending  order  of  indebtedness. 


Nihon  Kokugo  Daijiten.  B  ;£Sf&:fcS£ft  ($§JS5UJ&)  'h¥f$  Shogakukan  1980o  Without 
this  huge  (10  volume  reduced  print,  20  vol.  large  print)  dictionary  serious  study  of  pre- 
modern  Japanese  literature  is  impossible.  Most  of  whatever  I  search  for  is  in  it  and  there 
are  ample  examples  from  poetry.  Neither  is  true  for  any  other  dictionary.  I  call  it  the 
OJD,  ostensibly  after  the  OED,  but  actually  meaning  the  "Only  Japanese  Dictionary." 


Kyoka  Taikan  (tk  or  Broadview).  Meijishoin.  vol.1  text.  1982.  vol.2  reference  1984. 
±m  ftm±Mnft£MM  WfaWfc  #l§  1982,  ##H  1984  0  Edited  by  the 
Kyokataikankankokai  and  published  by  Meiji  Shoin  in  1982/4,  contains  about  23,000 
poems  from  a  hundred-odd  reproduced  books  of  kyoka,  including  collected  anthologies, 
such  as  the  first  large  one,  the  1666  Kokinikyokushu  (Old  &  New  Savage  (or,  Barbarian) 
Songs),  write-while-you  travel  collections  such  as  the  slightly  later  Chishishosaikydkasho 
of  which  the  Arima  section  edited  by  Kofu,  who  also  edited  the  Savage  anthology, 
impressed  me,  personal  collections  such  as  Mitoku's  1649  Gagin  Gashii  (I  sing  my 
collection),  Getsudoken's  1688-1703  Ouchiwa,  (Big  Fan),  which  gave  me  scores  of 
poems  and  even  selections  of  kyoka  from  material  of  other  format  such  as  journals,  of 
which  the  biggest  by  far  was  Asahi  Bunzaemon's  1684-1717  Omurochuki  or  Record 
from  the  Parrot  Cage  with  its  collected  squibs,  and  books  of  comic  stories  of  which 
Anraku  Sakuden's  1623  Seisuisho,  or  Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep  cannot  be  beat.  They 
date  from  the  early-13c.  to  mid-18c,  with  late-17c  to  early-18c  (mostly  by  Teiryu  or 
others  not  from  Edo)  particularly  well-covered.  With  Broadview  published,  there  is  no 
longer  any  excuse  for  neglecting  kyoka  in  Japanese  or  in  translation.  The  editors  were 
aware  of  the  significance  of  their  volumes  for  repairing  the  bias  in  favor  of  Tenmei  (late 
18c  Edo)  senryu  and  the  vol.  I  Preface  states  that  if  the  older  poems  were  sometimes 
crude,  they  were  also  bold  and  prolific,  overflowing  with  a  primal  creativity  lost  when  the 
Tenmei  poets  polished  the  genre.  Most  of  the  non-Tenmei  poems  in  the  Monster  and  this 
Reader  come  from  Broadview.  A  list  of  those  books,  with  an  indication  of  my 
indebtedness  to  each,  is  in  the  Monster's  biblio.  They  are  listed  and  dated  online  by 
Yoshioka  Ikuo.  (Japanese  only). 


Shokusan  Kashu  (Shokusanjin's  personal  collection)  Ed.  Fujii  Otsuo.  With  a  history  of 
kyoka  and  biography  of  Shokusanjin  by  Kaneko  Jitsue.  1927.  (Jitsue  is  a  guess.  We  find 
no  indication  of  the  pronunciation).  TljpJ^cftJ  ssks  S^^ggflf .  ff  li»I»£E®;/hi 
■fcJtjpLiAf¥{H,  4fe^-^^^o  8Sft^¥o  Hundreds,  maybe  thousands  of  Shokusanjin's 
poems  (If  anyone  feels  like  counting,  tell  me  and  I'll  add  the  figure  to  the  next  edition).  I 
do  not  know  what  percent  of  his  poems  it  is,  but  the  whole  man  is  indeed  here.  With 
poems  to  dancing  girls  and  his  dead  wife,  we  feel  we  get  to  know  the  poet.  This  is  what 
Blyth  had,  and  probably  explains  why  he  concentrated  on  Shokusanjin  to  the  exclusion  of 
all  others  in  his  Oriental  Humour.  Kaneko 's  essays  are  wonderful  and  simultaneously  do 
justice  to  Shokusanjin  and  the  broader  (older)  history  of  kyoka  that  was  largely  ignored 
until  the  Kyoka  Taikan  was  published  in  1982/4.  I  am  so  grateful  that  Kyushu  University 
and,  later,  J-text  saw  fit  to  give  us  this  great  volume  on-line. 


Senryu  Kyoka  Shu  Sugimoto  Nagashige  +  Ha  mad  a  Giichiro  annot..  Nihon  Koten 
Bungaku  Taikei  57,  Iwanami  Shoten:  1958.  Hamada  is  in  charge  of  the  kyoka  part  with 
the  representative  827-poem  Tenmei  kyoka  work  Tokuwa-kagomanzaishu  (1785), 
selected  by  Yomo  no  Akara  (Ota/Shokusanjin),  Shokusan  Hyaku-shu,  or  100  poems  by 


Shokusanjin,  published  in  1818,  and  the  1786  Azumakyoku  Kyoka-bunko,  with  one  poem 
each  by  fifty  poets  +  and  some  poets  who  were  skipped  and  added  later  that  year.  The 
1786  book  has  brief  annotations  about  each  poet  added  by  Hamada.  JI|$|l$E!jft^||  J&Jf- 

&m+mmm-mm%  mfo<DB*-&mic¥±%  57.  ^33.  mx  ifpti 

M^Ml  ri^g-fj  mm&iUmXmi  liiBC^ijSg^,  The  Tokuwa 
anthology  is  the  source  of  most  of  the  Tenmei  poems  by  poets  other  than  Shokusanjin  in 
my  book.  Iwanami  has  another  book  with  Tenmei  kyoka  I  have  not  yet  seen.  Hamada 's 
introduction  is  good  for  exampling  basic  types  of  kyoka  but  a  bit  too  Tenmei-centric. 


Kokin  Kyoka  Daizen.  [General  Tenmei.  Kyoka  hodgepodge.']  ^^$£W\^^k  Kfn  27 
'KiR  ^-lT>  XWt  This  old  (1895)  book  has  about  a  thousand  kyoka,  almost  completely 
by  Tenmei  poets  and,  I  would  guess,  dating  between  1783  and  1800.  Unfortunately  the 
sources  are  not  given  and  only  two  characters  of  all  the  poets'  names  given,  which  is  fine 
for  the  famous  ones  but  not  for  the  others.  But,  I  have  it  on  hand  -  it  was  very  cheap  to 
buy  -  and,  having  little  else  with  Tenmei  kyoka,  had  to  use  it. 


Kyoka  Hyakunin  Isshu,  or  Kyoka  Hundred  Poets  One  Poem.  Shokusanjin's  parody,  or 
rather  rainbow  of  take-offs  on  the  famous  100  show  what  a  poet  with  the  mind  of  an 
editor  can  do.  How  fortunate  that  one  kind  man,  Mizukaki  Hisashi,  took  it  upon  himself 
to  put  all  the  poems  online,  with  comments  and  examples  of  other  parodies.  SESWA^HT 


Hyakki  yakyo:  hundred  demon  night  frenzy)  [fW JlL^fiiJ  1785..  The  same  person  who 
put  the  Shokusanjin's  Kyoka  Hundred  Poets  on  line,  Mizukaki  7K±H  A  put  a  good  portion 
of  this  book  with  kyoka  on  spooky  supernatural  creatures  by  16  top  kyoka  poets, 
including  Yomo  no  Akara,  on  line,  too,  but  not  all.  He  stopped  at  60  (I  have  yet  to  see  the 
last  40)  for  reasons  I  explain  in  the  Acknowledgment.  I  am  grateful  to  him  for  not 
yanking  the  site,  for  without  it,  my  entire  sampling  of  spooks  would  have  been  from 
Hearn's  Goblin  Poetry,  poem-wise,  lower  quality. 


Fuboku  Waka-sho.  t<M^Wity  Selected  by  Fujiwara  Nagakiyo  MUWin  1310  (1907 
reprint).  The  20,000+  waka  are  mostly  pretty  poor,  but  there  many  interesting  poems  not 
in  the  Imperial  or  even  second-rank  anthologies,  some  of  which  bring  us  closer  to  kyoka 
and,  this  is  rare,  they  are  arranged  in  hundreds  of  themes. 


Edo  Kyoka.  flJ^ffilft  ft 7c V ^ ft f^ItlJ  1986.  Writer-psychiatrist  Nada  Inada 
proves  even  an  amateur  could  grasp  the  importance  of  kyoka  when  great  literary  critics 
writing  in  Japanese  or  English  could  not.  Socially  significant  kyoka  are  well-chosen. 


Nichibunken  13  3t.  The  only  way  a  poor,  unaffiliated  person  can  read  lots  of  waka.  Not 
one  book  but  hundreds  are  on-line.  Unfortunately,  the  lead-in's  and  other  contextual 
information  as  well  as  most  of  the  poets '  names  (!)  are  not  given.  Since  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  poems  were  typed  in  by  one  kind  man,  Nara  National  College  of  Techno- 
logy's ^ PkHMM^^W^  Prof.  Seta  Katsuhiro  HBJUffSft,  one  cannot  complain! 

Manydshu  mys  8c.  Annot.  by  Nakanishi  Susumu.  Iwanami  bunko  TJMM^  ^Wli,  ^ 
?S  ft-  (1983/90).  Minimal  explanations,  but  with  about  5000  poems,  extraordinary 
attention  for  a  cheap  pocket  book.G 

Kokinshu  kks.  c905.  Kyusojin  Hitaku  annot.  (Kodansha  gakujutsu  bunko  1983/90)  ("S" 
4^kksfi,  ^\if##  ft p^tt^l/lf^JSo  The  most  notes  I  have  ever  found  in 
a  cheap  pocket  book,  for  which  I  am  thankful,  of  the  wit  in  the  original. 


Sanka-shii.  Saigyo  d.l  190.  An  old  Iwanami  pb  (1928/78  35th  printing!)  with  no 

notes  whatsoever  found  in  a  used  bookstore  &  bought  for  25-cents  let  me  introduce 
plentiful  waka  by  Saigyo. 


Shinkokinshu  ff ^J^-fPiKllskks  1205.  An  old  Iwanami  pb  (1929/92  67th  printing!). 
No  notes  whatsoever. ii,  ^^L<0^\^XW-o  i£ftif£<&l\,  Had  I  more  notes,  I 
might  have  translated  more  poems  from  it.. 

Shinsen  Manydshu  trgt^HII  893-913,  and  Kokinwakarokujd  T^-fPH^W  976-82 
(B§  kkrj)  are  not  only  important  for  filling  in  the  period  between  the  Manydshu  (8c)  and 
Kokinshu  (early  10c)  but  interesting  in  their  own  right  and  important  for  grasping  the 
broader  history  of  Japanese  literature  that  includes  kyoka.  Few  Japanese  have  read  them 
and  I  would  have  entirely  missed  them  if  not  for  Cranston  2a. 

*  NEW  Kyoka  Kansho  Jiten  Dictionary  of  Kyoka  Appreciation,  [FffiS^M^SfftJ 

(#JI|  1984)  by  Suzuki  Tozo  i^/f^^^^-was  found  after  the  Monster  was  written  but 
a  few  things  from  it  added  when  the  reading  copy  was  proofed.  Our  overlap  turned  out  to 
be  about  5%D  Compared  to  the  Monster,  there  is  more  word-play  and  less  conceptual 
poems,  more  1 8c  and  less  1 7c  and  more  poems  used  as  punchlines  in  stories. 


English  -  While  my  sources  are  over  90%  Japanese,  if  the  books  within  Kyoka 
Taikan  (Kyoka  Broad-view)  are  not  counted  individually,  I  have  looked  at  more 
English  sources,  enough  to  justify  alphabetizing  by  author  below: 

Aston,  W.G.  A  History  of  Japanese  Literature  Heinemann:  1 899.  The  description  of 
what  is  inevitably  lost  in  translation  given  in  the  preface  is  superb  and,  conceptually 
speaking,  not  the  least  dated.  And  what  honesty!  How  many  of  our  modern  translator- 
anthologists  come  out  and  clearly  admit  the  following?  "In  the  present  volume  it  has 
often  been  necessary  to  pass  over  the  best  and  most  characteristic  passages  of  an  author 
in  favour  of  others  which  lent  themselves  more  readily  to  presentation  in  an  English 
form. "  His  description  of  kidka,  which,  as  we  saw  in  the  front-matter,  begins  so 
appreciatively,  takes  so  interesting  a  turn  that  I  shall  quote  the  entire  passage. 

Kioka  (literally  "mad  poetry")  is  a  comic  and  vulgar  variety  of  Tanka.  There  is 
here  an  absolute  freedom  both  in  respect  to  language  and  choice  of  subject.  The 
Kioka  must  be  funny,  that  is  all.  In  this  kind  of  poetry,  of  which  an  immense 
quantity  was  produced  during  the  Yedo  period,  the  punning  propensity  of  the 
Japanese  has  been  allowed  full  scope.  Share  (rhymes  with  sake)  reigns  there 
supreme.  Share  is  one  of  those  numerous  Japanese  words  for  which  there  is  no 
exact  English  equivalent.  It  may  be  translated  "wit"  but  in  order  to  express  its 
full  meaning  a  spice  of  what  is  comprehended  under  the  terms  gaiety,  esprit, 
playful  fancy,  stylishness,  must  be  added.  Japanese  wit,  like  that  of  other 
countries,  has  an  element  which  defies  analysis  or  classification.  But  the  jeu'de- 
mots  predominates.  Share  infests  not  only  the  Kioka,  but  the  drama  and  fiction, 
to  an  extent  well-nigh  intolerable  to  European  tastes.  Dr.  Florenz,  Professor  of 
Philology  in  the  Imperial  University  of  Tokio,  has  treated  this  subject  with  truly 
German  conscientiousness  and  erudition  in  a  paper  read  before  the  German 
Asiatic  Society  of  Japan  in  July  1892.  Following  a  native  investigator  named 
Tsuchiko  Kaneshiro,  he  classifies  share  under  two  heads  with  divisions  and 
subdivisions,  making  in  all  twenty  different  kinds.  Our  old  enemy  the  pivot- 
word  [first  defined  by  Chamberlain]  is  here,  also  the  pillow-word,  and  several 
varieties  of  the  ordinary  pun,  with  various  fearfully  complicated  acrobatic 
contortions  of  speech  which  I  shall  not  attempt  to  describe.  Even  the  reader  who 
has  a  competent  knowledge  of  the  language  requires  a  special  study  to 
understand  and  appreciate  them.  He  follows  these  far-eastern  waggeries  with  a 
halting  step,  and  frequently  finds  himself  in  the  position  of  the  Scotchman  who 
was  heard  suddenly  to  burst  into  laughter  at  a  joke  which  had  been  made  half- 


an-hour  before.  Nothing  testifies  more  strikingly  to  the  nimbleness  of  the 
Japanese  apprehension  than  their  delight  in  these  "Taschenspielerkunstchen  des 
sprachlichen  Ausdrucks"  (linguistic  prestidigitations),  as  Dr.  Florenz  has  aptly 
called  them,  whether  in  conversation  or  in  books.  It  may  be  doubted  whether 
such  an  excessive  fondness  for  mere  verbal  wit  does  not  amount  to  a  disease, 
and  whether  it  has  not  constituted  a  serious  obstacle  to  the  development  of 
higher  qualities  in  their  literature. 

The  sentences  italicized  suggest  that  while  Aston  defines  kyoka  more  broadly  and 
accurately  than  most  moderns  who  dwell  on  parody  and  the  18c,  he  did  not  evaluate  it 
highly.  However,  that  is  not  all.  Aston  continues  to  hypothesize  that  Japanese  had  no 
choice  but  rely  on  short  and  punning  poetry  because  their  limited  phonemes,  "open 
vowels  preceded  by  single  consonants  or  none"  made  not  only  end-rhyme  impossible  (or 
impossibly  boring)  but  "only  within  the  narrowest  limits"  allowed  the  poet  to,  following 
Pope,  "make  the  sound  an  echo  to  the  sense."  allowed  the  crafting  of  "sound  as  an  echo 
to  the  sense."  In  other  words,  he  invented  a  negative  theory  for  the  genesis  of  kyoka. 

The  above  is  roughly  as-is  in  the  740-page  Monster.  The  rest  shall  be  shortened. 

Blyth,  Reginald  H.  Oriental  Humour  Hokuseido:  1959.  Includes  an  idiosyncratic  14- 
page,  24-poem  (16  by  Yomo  no  Akara  /  Shokusanjin)  sampling  of  kyoka.  The  first 
example  given  is  a  parody  of  Saigyo's  blossom-viewing  poem  (a  trail-marker  left  from 
the  year  before  is  not  followed  in  order  to  see  new  sights  and  that  becomes  a  marker 
misread  getting  the  poet  lost).  Later  given  by  others,  it  is  not  one  of  my  favorites  as 
Saigyo's  original  idea  of  looking  for  his  marker  so  as  not  to  see  the  same  thing  is  more 
novel  than  not  seeing  it  and  getting  lost  in  the  profusion  of  bloom  (a  common  theme  in 
haikai),  so  the  only  merit  of  the  kyoka  is  that  it  changes  but  one  syllabet  in  the  first  half  of 
the  parody.  Otherwise,  I  was  delighted  with  the  choice  of  poems.  Blyth  correctly  notes 
that  kyoka  "parody"  is  more  a  sort  of  "lightening"  of  the  original  than  digging  at  it,  and 
he  exampled  it  by  one  more  take-off,  where  a  blossom-viewing  poem  turns  into  a 
blizzard  and  the  sedan-men  must  be  paid  more  (the  bonus  was  like  that  of  the  Mexican 
mariachi,  paid  in  booze  ttSft).  If  I  wander  describing  Blyth's  book,  it  is  because  his  book 
is  full  of  life  and  life  is  such.  Blyth  included  what  would  become  the  three  most 
commonly  translated  kyoka,  Shokusanjin's  drunken  Spring  zig-zagging  up  the  street  (the 
word  zig-zag  must  be  Usanian  for  he  uses  much  less  accurate  vocabulary),  Teiryu's 
visiting-Mt.-Fuji-is-better-in-a-dream  (his  only  pre-Tenmei  example)  and  Meshimori's 
bad-poets-are-safer-for-not-moving-heaven-&-earth  (pg.32).  Blyth  (like  me,  sometimes?) 
makes  some  wild  assertions.  While  I  may  quibble  with  details,  who  but  Blyth  will  give 
you  a  sentence  like  "It  may  be  true  to  say,  combining  Tertullian  and  Oscar  Wilde,  that 
the  only  thing  we  can  possibly  believe  is  the  impossible.  "?  He  is  second  only  to  Lafcadio 
Hearn  for  giving  his  readers  an  education  in  English  literature  as  he  introduces  Japan  in 
relatively  universal  terms.  Any  book  by  Blyth  is  worth  reading.  The  delightful 
hyperlogical  Chinese  humour  alone  merits  a  reprint  of  this  one. 

Bownas  &  Thwaite  (Geoffrey  Brownas,  Anthony  Thwaite)  The  Penguin  Book  of 
Japanese  Verse,  1964.  Most  books  of  Japanese  poetry  without  the  originals  to  compare 
and  notes  are  not  worth  the  paper  they  are  on,  but  these  translations  are  good  enough  to 
make  it  the  exception.  It  has  the  usual  handful  of  kyoka.  Only  a  handful. 


Braunen,  Noah.  "Mad Poems" from  Japan's  Unknown  Surimono.  Article  in  Rutgers 
"Painted  Bride  Quarterly"  40/41  double  issue.  Egs.  of  surimono  poems.  {Monster  only) 

Carpenter,  John  T.  et  alfred  Haft  and  others.  Reading  Surimono:  the  Interplay  of 
Text  and  Image  in  Japanese  Prints  with  a  Catalogue  of  the  Marino  Lusy  Collection. 
Leiden,  2008.  +Hotei  Publishing.  With  300  surimono  (fancy  color  prints)  with  two  or 
more  kyoka  each,  all  translated  and  explained  this  is  at  least  20x  more  translated  kyoka 
than  I  knew  existed  in  any  single  work  other  than  my  book  to  be  and  I  only  found  this 
book  the  day  before  I  was  set  to  call  it  quits  and  start  the  index.  Why?  Because  it  came 
from  the  world  of  art  rather  than  literature.  The  eleven  illustrated  essays  comprising  the 


first  quarter  of  Reading  Surimono  alone  would  make  a  fine  book.  I  learned  something 
from  each.  Because  of  the  cornucopia  of  allusions  in  the  prints  and  poems,  Carpenter 
wrote,  "a  study  of  surimono  could  amount  to  a  wide-ranging  albeit  eclectic,  survey  of 
pre-modern  Japanese  literature  and  culture.  "  It  not  only  "could"  but  does  become  just 
that  in  this  book  about  "the  most  extraordinarily  literate  form  of  printmaking  in  world 
history. "  The  lengthy  explanation  of  the  cultural  background  of  the  pictures  and  poems 
beats  anything  I  have  seen  other  than  McKee's  work,  which  does  the  same. 

Carter,  Steven  D. ,  Traditional  Japanese  Poetry.  Stanford  University  Press:  1991.  Only 
seven  of  1157  poems  are  kyoka.  Carter  says  nothing  demeaning  about  kyoka,  but  notes 
the  emphasis  on  "wordplay  (is)  so  complicated  it  can  only  be  suggested  in  translation." 
Perhaps  that  is  why  he  did  not  translate  more,  though  he  is  definitely  not  adverse  to 
humor  as  he  did  a  good  job  of  finding  and  translating  many  witty  waka  and  haikai, 
including  some  of  each  I  think  qualify  as  kyoka  so  his  book  is  my  favorite  one-book 
selection  and  translation  of  what  its  title  says.  While  syllable-padding  hurts  some  trans- 
lations, many  are  excellent  for  he  pays  more  attention  to  beat  than  is  usual  and  is  creative 
(eg.  the  last  line  to  his  honobono  to  akashi  .  .  .  translation:  "my  heart  following  in  its 
wake."  •^WBfPftti'V^*) 


Cranston,  Edwin  A.  "A  Waka  Anthology"  Translated,  with  Commentary,  Appendixes, 
and  Notes  by  ~,  Stanford  University  Press  Vol  1:  The  Gem  Glistening  Cup  (1993), 
Vol.2a  and  2b:  Grasses  of  Remembrance  (2006).  I  like  Cranston's  attitude  toward 
translation  and  the  readings  that  follow  his  creed  ( "Anything  that  works  justifies  itself 
ipso  facto").  ®Re.  his  Vol.1  (largely  the  Manyoshu),  he  admits  "there  is  not  a  poem  in 
this  volume  that  has  not  been  rendered  into  English  at  least  once  and  sometimes  several 
times  before,  "  but  only  he  gracefully  introduces  so  many  of  the  poems  with  their  poets 
that  someone  who  has  read  them  in  Japanese  gains  something.  And,  his  books  are 
readable  because  he  explains  most  things  on  the  same  page  rather  than  by  end  note.  Our 
biggest  difference  is  that  his  explanations  precede  the  poems,  mine  follow.  *  Vol.2a  has 
more  waka  never  before  rendered  into  English  for  the  first  time  than  any  other  book,  with 
the  possible  exception  of  Honda's  Manyoshu  translations  (so  sketchy  as  to  be  useless  to 
we  who  read  Japanese).  And,  Cranston's  selection  includes  many  waka  of  the  type  I 
would  call  wild  or  even  'mad'  from  anthologies  rarely  read  by  Japanese  today.  Most  of 
those  are  damn  hard  to  English  and  require  a  translator  to  go  farther  out  the  limb  than 
most  academics,  fearful  of  critics,  dare.  Cranston,  bless  him,  often  does.  And,  he 
promises  to  follow  the  practice  of  the  Sinosphere  and  exercise  more  poetic  license,  mad 
abandon  or  whatever  you  call  it  with  each  volume  to  come,  as  expected  for  an  elder.  In 
case  any  of  the  comparisons  of  my  mad  translations  and  his  plain  ones  did  not  support  my 
enthusiasm  for  his  work  (sometimes  I  may  make  choices  that  make  me  look  good),  here 
is  an  example  of  a  good  translation  of  a  waka  sent  to  the  Emperor  by  Kiritsubo  no  Koi 
from  I  forget  which  anthology:  "Now  the  end  has  come,  /  We  part  along  diverging  paths, 
/  And  one  sad  desire  /  Still  lies  heavy  in  my  heart:  /  To  live,  not  leave,  our  life.  "  (Kagiri 
tote  wakuru  michi  no  kanashiki  ni  ikama  hoshiki  wa  inochi  narikeri).  That  last  line  is 
one  to  die  for!  I  only  wish  the  index  for  vol  2a  were  in  2a  and  not  2b!  As  the  books  are 
too  expensive  for  me  to  buy,  I  had  to  use  library  loan  and  never  had  both  books  together 
to  find  things!  Almost  everything  from  the  Shinsen  Manydshu=ssmys,  and  most  from  the 
Gosenshu  =  gss,  Shuishu  =  sis  and  Kokinwakarokujo  =  kkrj  come  from  that  volume, 
which  the  publisher  should  rush  to  put  out  in  paperback  with  its  own  index  at  a  decent 
price.  With  POD  printing,  there  is  no  excuse  for  not  doing  this.  ©  Vol.2b,  with  all  the 
poems  in  the  Tale  of  Genji,  had  little  for  this  book,  but  if  you  would  grasp  the  conceptual 
and  emotional  underpinnings  of  what  some  consider  the  world's  first  true  novel . . . 


Gill,  Robin  D.:  ©Topsy-turvy  1585  (paraverse  press:  2005).  Luis  Frois  listed  61 1  ways 
Europe  and  Japan  are  contrary  in  Portuguese  in  the  16c.  All  are  translated  and  discussed. 
They  are  supplemented  by  hundreds  more.  This  makes  the  book  a  one-stop  reference  for 
things  Japanese  and  saves  me  much  time  otherwise  lost  searching  for  citations.  ®  The 
Woman  Without  a  Hole,  or  Octopussy,  Dry  Kidney  &  Blue  Spots  (paraverse  press: 
2007).  The  only  book  in  English  on  and  of  dirty  senryu.  It  is  one  book  with  two  names 


and  a  good  reference  for  sex  in  the  poetry  and  song  of  Japan.  It  complements  this  book, 
for  one  fills  in  the  hitherto  neglected  half  of  Japanese  poetry  below  the  navel  and  the 
other  that  found  above  the  neck.  If  senryu  were  neglected  for  being  obscene;  kyoka  were 
neglected  for  being  hyper-rational,  or  rikutsuppoi.  ©  The  Fifth  Season  (paraverse  press: 
2007).  Full  of  Edo  period  New  Year  haiku,  a  big  help  for  reading  surimono  pictures  and 
kyoka,  for  they  are  largely  about  that  season.  ©  The  Cherry  Blossom  Epiphany 
(paraverse  press:  2007).  The  3,000  old  haiku  include  over  a  score  of  waka  by  Saigyo, 
many  of  which  I  feel  verge  on  being  kyoka.  ©  Rise  Ye  Sea  Slugs!  The  namako,  so 
common  in  haikai,  is  so  rare  in  kyoka  that  this  book  was  only  cited  a  two  or  three  times. 
Since  the  camel  and  the  elephant  do  well  enough,  it  is  odd  that  the  sea  cucumber  is  so 
slighted.  *  For  more  of  and  on  my  books,  please  see  the  publicity  at  the  end  of  the  book. 


Hearn,  Lafcadio:  Goblin  Poetry  (in  1905  Romance  of  the  Milky  Way).  With  scores  of 
poems  from  Tenmei  Rojin  (Takumi  Jingoro),  i.e.,  Tenmei  (era)  Elder  ed.  Kyoka  Hyaku- 
Monogatari  31  lift  If  lis  #9  In  (1853)  translated,  this  was  not  only  the  first  introduction  of 
kyoka  in  English  but  the  largest  selection  Englished  until  this  book  (unless  scores  of 
Rydkan's  poems  translated  might  be  called  kyoka,  but  I  have  not  seen  them  to  judge)  —  with  the 
exception  of  art  books  of  surimono  (luxurious  prints+kyoka)  I  learned  of  so  late  I  had  to 
insert  this  qualification  -  Hearn  knew  he  was  breaking  new  ground  and  defined  it  well: 

The  word  "kyoka"  is  written  with  a  Chinese  character  signifying  "insane"  or 
"crazy;"  and  it  means  a  particular  and  extraordinary  variety  of  comic  poetry.  The 
form  is  that  of  the  classic  tanka  of  thirty-one  syllables  (arranged  57577);  —  but  the 
subjects  are  always  the  extreme  reverse  of  classical;  and  the  artistic  effects  depend 
upon  methods  of  verbal  jugglery  which  cannot  be  explained  without  the  help  of 
numerous  examples. 

Judging  from  the  examples  Hearn  gives,  there  are  some  puns,  but  they  seldom  match  the 
wilder  waka,  much  less  the  wild  conceptual  play  of  good  Tenmei  era  kyoka  which  made 
the  form  so  popular.  But  that  may  be  because  Hearn  selected  for  easy  translation,  so  I  will 
withhold  judgment  on  the  original  until  I  read  it.  Like  most  translators,  but  more  openly, 
Hearn  did  not  attempt  to  translate  the  poems  as  poems,  and  uses  brackets  to  indicate  that. 
He  also  admits  to  omitting  kyoka  "dealing  with  fancies  too  gruesome  for  Western 
nerves  .  .  .  also  those  treating  of  merely  local  tradition."  (Thanks  to  Google  Books  +  Univ.  of 
California  for  access  to  Goblin  Poetry  via  Lafcadio  Hearn's  Writings  ed.  by  Elizabeth  Bisland) 


Hein,  Piet.  Grooks.  All  of  his  collections  (generally  "with  the  assistance  of  Jens  Arup") 
embody  the  mind  of  the  conceptual  kyoka.  They  were  popular  in  the  late-60's  and  early 
70's  in  English,  but  are  timeless  and  should  still  be  in  every  library  and  bookstore. 

Hoffman,  Yoel.  Japanese  Death  Poems  -  Written  by  Zen  Monks  and  Haiku  Poets  on  the 
Verge  of  Death.  Charles  E.  Tuttle  Company.  1986.  This  book  contains  more  kyoka  than 
any  other  (excluding  surimono)  in  English,  for  most  of  the  31-syllabet  death-poems  - 
many  actually  included  in  kyoka  anthologies  -  could  be  called  kyoka,  yet  only  a  couple 
are  so  recognized.  Dying  Japanese  were  so  good-humored  that  this  may  be  the  finest 
book  of  Japanese  humor  ever  written  in  English. 


Horton,  H.  Mack.  The  Journal  of  Sdcho.  Translated  and  annotated  by  ~  (Stanford 
University  Press,  2002).  Most  of  the  link-verse  master's  poems  are  not  kyoka  but  the 
journal  includes  the  sort  of  personal  exchanges,  poems-as-communication  where  kyoka 
thrive  and  there  are  some  good  ones.  This  is  the  rare  translation  with  sufficient  notes.  © 
Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep.  Anrakuan  Sakuden:  1628.  Part  of  the  Highmoonoon  episodic 
festschrift  series  for  Howard  Hibbet.  This  tiny  but  fine  sampling  from  a  huge  book  of 
humor  includes  some  poems  I  consider  kyoka. 


Keene,  Donald,  World  Within  Walls:  Japanese  Literature  of  the  Pre-modern  Era,  1600- 
1867.  Columbia  University  Press,  1999.  The  most  thorough  (though  limited)  history  of 
kyoka  I  have  seen  in  English.  While  the  perspective  is  stereotypical,  the  sort  of  thing  a 
Japanese  scholar  of  classical  literature  who  knew  little  about  kyoka  might  write,  it  is  well 


done,  for  Keene  is  always  keen.  Unfortunately,  the  stereotypes  are  about  as  far  from 
reality  as  any  stereotypes  I  know.  Compare  the  Teitoku  and  Yuchoro  you  have  come  to 
know  in  this  book  with  Keene 's  disparaging  words  about  them  —  and  that,  despite  giving  a 
large  chapter  to  Teitoku,  whose  talent  in  every  field  of  letters  he  intermittently  peed  on 
(Keene's  attitude  being,  he  was  the  leading  man  of  letters  for  half  a  century,  so  I  must, 
sigh!  give  him  all  this  space)  -  and  compare  the  breadth  of  poetic  device  you  have  found 
here  (even  in  the  Tenmei  period,  alone)  with  Keene's  idea  of  kyoka  as  little  more  than 

parody,  etc.  and  When  Keene  writes  "Kyoka  was  a  minor  form  of  poetry,  but 

considering  how  little  humor  there  is  in  Japanese  literature,  we  should  be  grateful  for  the 
work  of  some  gifted  poets  who  occasionally  approached  the  realm  of  genuine  comic  art.  " 
half  of  me  thinks  of  the  razor-sharp  wit  of  Seishonagon  and  the  hyper-logical  play  born 
of  the  editorial  surrealism  in  Edo  and  says  Keene  has  lost  it,  but  the  other  half  wonders  if 
he  may  have  a  point:  Who  in  Japan/ese  has  created  anything  like  the  finely  knit  wit  of  our 
"Will  to  boot  and  Will  in  overplus"  (his  word)  with  his  sonnets?  Or,  proceeding  from  the 
Bard  to  the  Dean,  could  any  Japanese  ape  Ovid  and  wax  logically  and  lyrically  for  over  a 
page  to  conclude  "Caelia  shits!"?  I  imagine  Keene's  capacious  cranium  has  a  large 
store-house  of  Occidental  "genuine  comic  art"  -  and  judges  Japanese  by  comparison  to  it, 
while  mine,  lacking  capacity,  must  pretty  much  forget  English  wit  to  find  room  for  the 
Japanese,  which  is  more  than  abundant  enough  to  fill  it.  So,  who  am  I,  with  my  limited 
memory  and  absent  library,  to  doubt  him?  But,  let  me  say  this.  Seeing  the  "episodic 
festschrift,"  a  series  of  tiny  books  translating  short  work  or  selections  of  Edo  avant-garde 
literature,  to  celebrate  the  career  of  Howard  S.  Hibbett  compiled  by  John  Solt  and 
published  by  his  highmoonoon  press,  it  is  obvious  that  we  have  barely  scratched  the 
surface  of  Japanese  humor.  It  may  well  be  that  Japan  boasts  more  not  less  "genuine 
comic  art"  that  a  comparative-sized  culture  in  the  West.  If  a  few  of  the  booklets  in  that 
series  were  expanded  (not  just  commentary,  but  more  material  translated)  and  more 
books  on  supposedly  "minor"  popular  genre  -  eg.  my  dirty  senryu  {The  Woman  Without 
a  Hole),  Adam  L.  Kern's  Edo  era  literary  comics,  {Manga  from  the  Floating  World: 
Comicbook  Culture  and  the  Kibydshi  of  Edo  Japan.  Harvard  University  Asia  Center,  2006.), 
etc.  -  we  might  be  able  to  not  only  prove  Keene  wrong,  but  convince  ourselves  of  it. 


McKee,  Daniel.  Colored  in  the  Year's  New  Light:  Surimono  from  the  Becker  Collection. 
Johnson  Museum  of  Art,  Cornell:2008.  And  Japanese  poetry  prints  :  surimono  from  the 
Schoff  Collection  Herbert  F.  Johnson  Museum  of  Art  2006.  Much  of  what  I  wrote  about 
Carpenter's  book  applies.  McKee  did  a  beautiful  job  of  introducing  the  Japanese  New 
Year  Season,  directly  or  indirectly  the  subject  of  most  surimono,  and  analyzing  the  world 
of  commissioning  surimono  with  particular  attention  paid  to  Magao,  and  translated  and 
explains  hundreds  of  poems.  He  makes  an  interesting  point  about  art-related  translation  - 

"catalogues  of  collections  are  often  looked  down  upon  as  the  poor  cousins  of 
monographs,  but  in  many  respects  present  a  much  greater  challenge  to  their  authors,  as 
well  as  a  more  objective  representation  of  a  given  field.  Rather  than  working  with  a 
chosen  set  of  materials,  largely  already  mastered  and  selected  toward  a  given  end,  the 
cataloguer  of  a  collection  is  faced  with  a  group  of  predetermined  objects  covering  a 
variety  of  areas,  which  must  somehow  be  incorporated  into  a  meaningful  whole.  " 

Exactly.  I  think  it  explains  why  his  and  Carpenter's  art  books  may  be  the  best 
introduction  to  kyoka  in  English  that  we  have  up  to  Mad  In  Translation.  The  poems  are 
thematically  ordered  rather  than  by  artist,  as  with  Carpenter's  Reading  Surimono  - 

Time:  picture  calendars,  zodiac,  seasons,  meanings  of  spring,  exorcisms,  .  .  .  Place: 
poetic  places,  travel,  landscapes,  famous  goods,  .  .  .  Entity:  Commoners,  Warriors,  .  .  . 
Celebrities,  Nature  and  Animals,  Evocative  Objects  .  .  . 


Satchell,  Thomas.  See  Ikku  (Jippensha  Ikku)  in  Bios  of  the  Monster  for  examples  of 
rhymed  kyoka  translation  within  an  early  19c  novel,  Shanks  Mare  (Tokaido  Hizakurige). 


Sato,  Hiroaki  and  Burton  Watson.  From  the  Country  of  Eight  Islands:  An  Anthology  of 
Japanese  Poetry.  Columbia  University  Press,  1986. 1  did  learn  it  had  only  nine. 


Shirane,  Haruo  and  James  Brandon,  Early  Modern  Japanese  Literature:  An  Anthology, 
1600-1900.  Columbia  University  Press,  2002.  While  not  so  detailed  as  Keene,  neither  is 
it  so  prejudiced.  Shirane  does  not  put  down  kyoka  and  notes  how  popular  narratives 
included  it;  but  he  still  introduces  less  than  a  dozen,  mostly  borrowed  from  Burton 
Watson  (with  Sato,  above).  Does  he  1)  not  appreciate  the  importance  of  the  B-side  of  31- 
syllabet  poetry?  2)  Hesitate  to  translate  wit?  Or,  is  it  simply  that  he  did  more  gathering 
than  translating  and  the  material  was  just  not  yet  out  there  in  English? 


Takanashi,  Hiroko.  Orthographic  puns:  The  case  of  Japanese  kyoka.  International 
Journal  of  Humor  Research.  Volume  20,  Issue  3,  Pages  235-259.  The  paper  proposes  a 
cognitive  model  for  processing  humor  in  puns  written  in  kanji  (logographs)  and  kana 
(phonographs)  in  kyoka  and  shows  how  kyoka  poets  manipulate  the  use  of  kanji  and  kana 
orthography  to  trick  their  readers  in  different  ways,  directing  readers  to  different 
processing  routes  of  kanji  and  kana  puns,  (from  abstract). 


Tanaka,  Rokuo:  "Forgotten  Women:  Two  Kyoka  Poets  of  the  Temmei  Era"  in  Jessica 
Milner  Davis  ed.  Understanding  Humor  in  Japan.  Wayne  State  University  Press,  2006.  * 
That  two  top  Tenmei  era  female  kyoka  poets  could  be  written  up  when  no  scholar  has 
done  the  same  for  the  more  famous  (male)  kyoka  poets  may  tell  us  something  about 
academia  and  publishing  today.  While  I  take  issue  with  some  claims,  eg.  "Kyoka  does 
not  employ  the  traditional  fixed  epithets  and  decorative  modifiers  (makura  kotoba  or 
pillow  words)  that  were  so  often  integral  elements  of  traditional  waka,"  (rather,  kyoka 
sometimes  does  play  with  said  elements),  Tanaka  writes  well,  and  I  only  wish  he  wrote  a 
book  rather  than  a  chapter  in  one.  Unfortunately,  he  is  no  longer  with  us. 


Thomas,  Roger  K.  Macroscopic  vs.  Microscopic:  Spatial  Sensibilities  in  Waka  of  the 
Bakumatsu  Period.  1998  Harvard- Yenching  Institute.  On  what  is  natural  or  native  and 
how  that  related  to  the  language  of  waka  according  to  Kotomichi.  (Only  in  the  Monster) 


Ueda,  Makoto.  Basho  and  His  Interpreters.  Stanford  University  Press  1992.  I  have 
quoted  little  from  this  book  but  introduce  it  as  the  only  book  of  translated  haiku  I  know 
other  than  mine  that  provides  sufficient  interpretation  to  give  readers  an  idea  of  what 
goes  on  in  the  heads  of  those  who  read  Japanese  haiku  in  the  original.  It  incidentally 
demonstrates  that  the  multiple  readings  I  bring  to  poems,  while  odd,  perhaps,  does  come 
closer  to  representing  the  way  poems  are  read  collectively  than  single  translations. 


Utamaro:  A  Chorus  of  Birds  (momochidori  kyoka  awase  1790),  intro.  Julia  Meech- 
Pekarik,  note  on  kyoka  and  transl.  James  A  Kenney  (The  Metropolitan  Museum  of 
Art/Viking  Press:  1981).  Total  30  kyoka.  The  translator's  brief  note  on  the  history  and 
nature  of  kyoka,  called  "mad  verse"  is  short  and  sweet.  (Only  cited  in  the  Monster) 


Watson,  Burton,  see  Sato,  for  his  kyoka  translations. 


XYZ  All  the  Books  or  Papers  I  missed.  As  my  occasional  complaints  in  the  text,  notes, 
biblios  and  bios  make  obvious,  there  is  more  I  still  need  to  see  -  mostly  in  Japanese  - 
than  what  I  have  seen  already.  I  know  what  I  need  to  see  (but  cannot  afford)  in  Japanese. 
If  you  know  of  anything  I  should  see  in  English,  please  do  not  hesitate  to  contact  me,  but 
remember  that  I  am  not  near  a  library,  only  rarely  can  use  interlibrary  loan,  cannot  buy 
anything  and  must  beg  for  handouts  (extra  papers  or  books)  until  my  circumstances 
change.  Also,  as  I  prefer  to  concentrate  on  sifting  out  poems  I  like  from  large  collections 
in  the  original  so  I  can  myself  grasp  the  measure  of  the  poets  and  their  books  and  re- 
creating them  in  English  to  nit-picking  analysis  based  upon  the  opinion  and  selection  of 
others,  my  main  need  is  for  primary  material  (in  print,  though,  not  script). 

P  Perhaps,  I  should  have  tried  to  describe  The  740-page  Monster,  MAD  IN 
TRANSLATION  but  I  am  not  sure  what  I  think  of  it.  You  may  find  it  all  on  line. 


general  index 


A 

The  A=  People  include  poets 
also  listed  in  the  Poets  Index, 
which  gives  the  page  numbers 
for  all  of  their  poems.  The  pages 
given  here  touch  upon  the  poet's 
character  or  history. 


Addison  12 
AkeraKanko  1 82-3 
Anrakuan  Sakuden  23,33,1  19, 
266,286. 
Ariwara  =>  Motokata 
Asahi  Bunzaemon  1 08-1 1 6, 122 
Aston,  William  J.  10,16,279-80 

Basho  126,151,182,190,284 

Belloc  24 
Benedict,  Ruth  32 
Bierce,  Ambrose  18 

Blyth,  Reginald  EL  10,12,124, 
175220-2,257280 

Bokuyo  107205-7 
Brownas  &  Thwaite  23,54,1 14, 
280. 

Burke  (on  Paine)  Li. 
Bussai  205-7 

Carpenter,  John  T.  1  57-8, 

2762-80-1 
Carter,  Steven  69,182,263,275 

Chamberlain  16. 
Chesterton  231,239 
Chikamasa  35-7 
Chiyo-ni  262 
C,  L.  225 
Cowley  19 

Cranston,  Edwin  A.  1 1,16,27,45, 
77,81-2,141-2,209-11,237,255- 
258,  276,281 


Crockett,  Davy  125 

Darwin,  Charles  48 
Dickinson,  Emily  239 

Emperor  Koko  SO 
Emperor  Yuryaku  27 
Empresses  5,  70-1,139 

First  Emperor  238 
Forrest,  Stephen  M.  276 
Frois,  Luis  1 07, 
Fuji  Masaharu  98 
Fukui  Kyuzo  208 
Fushimatsu  no  Kaka  88-9 

Gatei  214 
gbs  150 

Getsudoken  1  1  80  86-7  89-90 
95-106,  162,176,179-80274 

Gill,  Robin  D.  261,  281 
Gohongi  Hiroko  275 
Golownin  39,47,114. 
Gould,  S.J.  272 

Hamada  Giichiro  1 1,12,64, 
1  1 2,277-8 

Hansen,  Chadwich  140 
Harris  93-4 

Hearn,  Lafcadio  10,56-8282 
Hein,  Piet  241,261,282 
Herrick,  Robert  1 12 
Heywood  11 

HiragaGennai  74n,  199-200 
Hirata  Atsune  24 
Hitomaru  30,72,77,191 

Hi-no-moto  109 
Herrick,  Robert  1 1 2 
Hideyoshi  120,125 
Hino  Tatsuo  216 
Hoffman,  Yoel  223-30,282 
Hokusai  1  57 


Horton,  IL  Mack  23,34n,75,150, 
267-8273282 

Humpty-Dumpty  1  5,270n 
Ieyasu  1 20 

Ikkyu  11,35-7,153-4,215- 
Issa  38,  57,  66-7,87,151,274 
Irving,  Washington  24 

Jakuren  54,82-3 
Jizori  M 

Johnson,  Samuel  237 
Joyce  160 

Kakinomoto  Hitomaro/u  30 

KanekoJitsue  11,12,271,277 

Kenney,  James  A  278 

Keene,  Donald  23-4,28,170,238, 
261282-3 

Kisshu  224 
Knutson,  Roger  M.  21 
Kofu  246 
Kotomichi  52274 

Kyogetsu-bo  1 39-40,250 

Kyusojin  69,256 

Lakoff,  George  SI 
LC  211 

Lightning  Slim  40 

Little  Ignoramus  155245. 

MacCauley,  Clay  10 
Marceau,  Lawrence  E.  199,276 
Marvel  El 

Mathers,  Cotton  140 
McAuley  et  al  104 
McCullough,  Helen  93-4,105 
McKee,  Daniel  2742-83 
Meshimori,  Yado  no  67-8,1 56 

Michizane  73,  245 
Miller  Emmit  162 

Mitoku  186,273 


286 


Miyoko  276 
Mizukaki  Hisashi  275 
Morris,  Ivan  19 
Morris,  Ryan  238 
Morse,  Edward  6 
Motokata  111-12,147 
Motoori  Norinaga  23,65, 
My  Mom  216 

Nada  Inada  32,7.74 
Nansen  222 
Narihira  91 
National  name  109 
Nelson,  Willie  11 
Nobunaga  1 1 9 

Obama  209 

Ono  no  Komachi  29 

Ota  Nanpo,  aka  Yomo  no  Akara 
and  Shokusanjin  UU  34n,69-73, 
111,116-7,217,247-8,265-6, 
2.74,  277 

Paine,  Thomas  6,15,39 
Parker,  Dorothy  25,77,250 
Po  Chiii  111 

Princess  Nukata  no  Okimi  25 
Pulvers,  Roger  19 

Quixote,  Don  21 

Respondent  =>  Yoshioka 
Robin,  Christopher  1  36 

Rodd  &  Henkenius  6Q  75 

94,  256 

Rochester  11 

Ryokan  49,226-7,262-3 

Saigyo  84-5,204,247-8,  261A 
270n 

Sanekata  87,104 
Sanetaka  28,264 
Sarumaru  1 85 
Satchell,  Thomas  283 
Satin  Doll  (D^ffi  276 

SatoHiroaki  208-9,283 

Saussure  91 

Sei  Shonagon  242 

Sengai  1 27 


Shiki  15,147,274 

Shikibu  (Izumi )  41-2, 

7.17-3,  264-5 

Shirane  234 
Shokusanjin  =>  Ota 
Shozan  266 
Shunzei  194,267 
Socho  75,267-8 
Sogi  28,268-9 
Solt,  John  199  7.76 
Sokan  223,243,270 
Stevens,  John  216 
Suckling  211 

Suzuki  Tozo  1 5=>  Kyoka  Diet. 
Swift  262 


Takahashi  Keiichi  216 

Takanashi  Hiroko  121,276,284 

Takuan  69 

Tanabe  Seiko  1 37 

Tanaka,  Rokuo  12,88-90,784 

Tanaka  Yuko  1 1 2 
Tanuma  1 18 
Tawara  Machi  749-50 
Teika  211 

Teiryu  67.77,  7.33-5,7.74 
Teitoku  42,49,n.  190,243 
Thomas,  Roger  K.  276,284 
Tsurayuki  45,147,181,256 
Twain,  Mark  6,39,200 

UedaMakoto  278,284 
Utamaro  68,7.84 

Van  den  Heuvel,  Cor  261 

Waley,  Arthur  IE 
Watson,  Burton  23,237,283 
Watts,  Alan  61 
Williams,  Hank  162 
Winnie  the  Pooh  1 36 
Wittgenstein  91 

XuFu  111 

Yasumi-ko  26 
Yomo  no  Akara  =>  Ota 


Yoshioka  Ikuo  16,275 
Yuchoro  ll,34n,41,43  45,48 
Yuryaku  =>  Emperor 

Zhuang-ze  212 


Only  some  mentions  of  some  H, 
or  Books,  are  here,  for  I  only 
thought  of  it  as  a  separate 
category  for  the  index  at  the  last 
minute,  pulling  them  out  of  the 
other  Things  that  follow.  And, 
many  just  were  not  there.  I 
know,  for  example,  that  Laughs 
to  Banish  Sleep  appears  many 
times.  Unless  readers  remember 
to  look  up  Anraku  Sakuden,  or 
Horton,  H.Mack  (though  not  all 
his  entries  concern  it),  it  would 
be  lost.  But,  this  book  will  be 
lost  to  Christmas  buyers  in  its 
first  year  out  if  the  author 
messes  around  with  it  any 
longer.  Besides,  all  such 
missing  things  may  be  searched 
for  on-line,  for  the  whole  book 
is  not  only  viewable  but 
searchable  at  Google  Books. 


Arima  Baedecker  113 
Barbarian  Songs  16  =>  Savage 
Broadview     (kyoka  taikan)  J_L, 
777 

Fake  Ise  9_7_  =>  Nisemonogatari 
Hundred  Poets  15,69,185,272 
Hyakhi  Yakyo  51 
Kokinshu  23,28,271, 

versus  Manyoshu  272 
Kyoka  Appreciation  Dictionary 

15,34,3411,43,125,189,779 
Kyoka  Hundred  Poets  69-73 
Laughs  to  Banish  Sleep  27.3 
Mad  In  Translation  2Q 

Manyo-shu  7.5-6,50-1,64,70-1, 
76,77,  201,231,255,  272 


287 


versus  Kokin-shu  272 

Nisemono-gatari  74n,97 
OJD  nihonkokngodaijiten  16 
Ryojinhisho  54 
Savage  Songs  (kokin-ikyoku- 

shu)  1639212,211 
Shi-ching  22 
Shinkokinshu  82 
Tokuwakagoshu  16 
Winnie  the  Pooh  136 
Wonderful  Life  212 


The  $3,  or  Things  here  include 
major  themes,  minor  themes, 
and  clearly  unimportant,  not  to 
mention  nonsensical  items. 
Many  might  be  called  "things 
your  translator  thought  amusing 
and  therefor  worthy  of  note  that 
a  more  objective  scholar  would 
have  left  hiding  inside  the  book 
or  never  allowed  in  it  to  begin 
with."  If  there  is  anything  you 
think  really  should  be  in  the 
index  that  is  not  there,  please  let 
me  know  and  maybe  it  will  get 
into  the  next  edition.  Also,  note 
that  once  a  book  is  searchable 
on  line,  as  all  Paraverse  Press 
books  are,  the  Index  is  little 
more  than  a  convenience  for 
those  with  poor  internet  con- 
nections or  who,  heaven  forbid, 
use  the  index  in  bed  or  on  the 
john.  No  index  can  out-detail  a 
digital  search,  so  we  need  to 
reconsider  the  purpose  and  use 
of  indices.  Otherwise,  the  Index 
will  become  extinct  and  no  one 
will  miss  them. 


Abandoning  mother  .3.3-4 
Ablutions  25 
Acknowledgements  275-6 


Advertisement  241 
Alas,  poor  ~  265 
Altruism  26 
Allusive  variation  1 72 
Ama  divers  71 ,80 
Amazon  as  Milky  Way  177 
America  &  name  problem  24 
Anagram  181 
Analogous  translation  259, 
771-7 

Appeal  to  Scholars  252^2 
Armpit  hair  511, 225 
Armstrong  god  23 1 
As-for  14 
Autumn  177-90 

Bad  poem  26, 
Balls  1Q_& 

Banzai  =>  long  live 

Bathos  84-5 

Beans  25^6 

Bed  as  island  84 

Benediction  101,  1 10-1?  127- 

136 

Benefit  from  this  book  7.68 
Benzaiten  107 
Ben  trovato  1 58 
Big  Peace  142 
Bird  poop  212 
Bisexuality  81,86-7 
Blind  man  17.6,  7.54 
Black  boats  118-19 
Blowfish=>  swellfish 
Boulder-growing  1 28-30 
Boyfriend  IK 
Broadview  =>  Hr  books 
Bug  cries  183-4,7.63-4 
Buenos  Aires  15 
Bullying  50-1 
Bittsu  pun  2& 
Brain  of  Pooh  1 36 
Broken  rudder  84 
Bullying  5H1 

Buttocks  86-7,158,185,219-20 

Calendar  conundrum  147-1  51 , 

263 

Camel  218-19 
Cape  Cod  6 

Capping    ,  also  =>  Exchange 
Cat  76,99-100,115,221, 
Catastrophe  =>  fire 


Character  play  152,241 
Chastity  1M, 

Cherry  blossoms  164-7,  168n 
Chess  =>  shogi 
Chickadee  7.08-9 
Chinese-style  15,215-22 
Changeling  =>  supernatural 
Chestnuts  182-3 
Childrens  ditty  122 
Chrysanthemum  1 84 
Cicada-killing  1 75 
Class-consciousness  109,1 16 
Cloudy  marks  =>  diacritical 
Cold  night  121 
Colored  leaves  1 86 
Colossal  Buddha  101 
Complaint  137-146 
Composite  translation  =>  Transl. 
Contents,  table  of  11 
Cooling  off  126 
Copyright  page  & 
Country  matters  1 59 
Courtesans  and  kyoka  102-3 
Creation  myth  5 
Crocodile  mouth  62 
Cuckoo  169-70 
Cynicism  1  1 2,  1 1 5 

Dandelion  113,  707-3, 

Danrin  211-12 

Death  poem  101 

Debts  144,156,196-7, 

Devil  =>  Emma 

Deer2& 

Dew  64-723? 

Dead  221 
Demon/s  26_ 
Derivative  poems  173 
Diacritical  marks  14 
Dick  JDS 

Dog  poo  123,  ~  pee  190 
Dog-fight  26Q 
Doka  26 

Dolphin  in  the  woods  252 

Drat  it  all  21(1 

Dreaming  209-10 

Drinking   debate    705-7  750-7 

264;  Drunk  156 

Dry  kidney  96,106 

Dust  122 

Dusting  125 

Dying  poems  222^20 


288 


Earthquake  1 07 

Eccentricity  £ 

Edo  1144,  bad  boy  228=9 

Eel  28 

Emma  35. 

England  6 

Envious  moon  111 

Epigram  29 

Epilepsy  107 

Erotic  153 

Exchange  debate  42,  all  sorts 
7.01-14,  retorting  kyoka  201,212 
one-upmanship  202,203,  gift- 
accompanying  202,  capping 
7.08-10, 

Exorcism  197 

Explaining  poetry  3,  prefactory 
HI 

Facetious  obscenity  100-1 
Fantasy  49-60 
Fart  236-8,243,245 
Fart-as-Buddha  38 
Fern  252 
Finger  joint  92 
Fire  108-9 

Fire-as-metaphor  =>  Love 
Fire  box  223 
Firefly  171-4,211 

Fire-prevention  charm  30-1 

Food  41,149,163,189,207 

Free-thinking  35,37,39,47 
Frogs  1 68 
Fugu  =>  swellfish 
Fuji  34  175 

Geese  1 63-4 

Ghost-stories  =>  supernatural 

Ghoti  189,190n 

Ghoul  58-9 

Globefish=>  swellfish 

Glossary  14-6 

Go,  the  game  225,276 

Goblin  Poetry  56-60 

=>  Supernatural 

Gods  (conceited)  39 

Gods  Gone  Month  61,7.07-8 

Google  books  276 

Goose  tears  85 


Gourds  86-7 
Grooks  261 
Gulliver  5£> 

Haikai,  Haiku  &  Hokku  15 
Haikai  (kks-style)  249_ 
Haikai  link-verse  21,21 1,242 
Haikai  master  225 
Hades  35-6,38,47 
Heartburn  163 
Heat  175 
Heaven  38 
Hell  =>  Hades 
History  of  kyoka  271-4 
Hometown  137-8,145n 
Homile  religious  36-7 
Homosexual    (wakashu)  33,81 , 
86,216,246,267 
Horai  135 
Hotoke  pun  31 
Hototogisu  =>  Cuckoo 
House-warming  1 27-8 
Humanity  221 
Hyperbole  80  123-6 
Hyperlogic/al  15,35-48,177,180, 
212-13,261. 

Ignorance  253 

Illiterate  love  91-2 

Interpreting  problems  1  111-12, 

131,142,244,254-5 

Ise,  Tales  of  93-4,  97-8 
Issa  137-141,  143-146  160 
It  61 

Itching  (not  I'ching)  69 

'Japanese  pronunciation 

=>Buenos  Aires 

Japanese-style'  15,18,178,187. 

Jews  (Haiku  for  ~)  49 
Jisei  =>  dying  poems 
Jokisen  tea  pun  118-19 
Just-so  37,245,252 

Kabuki  17.1,246 
Kalpa  132 
Kana-zoshi  209 
Kanji  pun  121 

Kansai  (Osaka,  Kyoto,  etc)  11 
Kansei  Reform  1 17 


Karma  46,  233, 

Katsurao  =>  man  in  the  moon 

Key  Biscayne  269 

Kidding  50-1,  7.01, 

Kotoba  252 

Ku  15 

kugelM 

Kyoka  definition  9,10,12,19, 
279-80,282,  appreciation  in 
Japan)  JH  &  waka  JiL  history 
1 1 ,7.50,  7.71-4,  first  2£J 
&japanese  character  28 

kyoyaku  9_ 
Kyoku  15 
Kyotnei  1 5,1 6 
Kyoshi  15 
Kyoto  108-9 

Leaving  spring  1 67-8 
Legs  of  sun  155 
Lice  are  nice  45,87 
Link-verse  21 
Listing  242 
Literary  history  11 
Long  Live  -1128^30 
Longevity  184,208-9 

Love  75-94,  &  plants  92 

Love  metaphor  passion= 
fire:  flame,  smoke,  burn  75-9; 
longing/pain=water:  tears,  river, 
sea,  pond,  hail,  icicles  80-86, 
shore,  reef,  etc.  94-5,257 

Macho  7.7.8-9 
Mad-cap  verse  15 

Mad  translation  9,52,121, 

255-60 

Magazine  262 

Maiden  flower  =>  ominaeshi 
Make-up  241 

Man  in  the  moon  88-91,188,7.53 
Man  writing  as  woman  86,89, 

9_1 

Marine  metaphor  94-5 
Martial's  Epigrams  33 
Masturbating  bird  1 62 
Meiji  era  name  pun  120 
Melons  9_2 

Menstruation  42-4,189 


289 


Merhu  135 

Metaphors  extreme  123-6.  ~  of 
Love  in  english  22  otherwise  => 
Love  metaphor 
Mimesis  Li 
Miscanthus  53,180 
Modesty  22 
Monkey  114-5,252 
Monowazukushi  242-3 
Monster,  The  740-page  ~  9,1 1 
Monsters=>  Supernatural 
Moon  ILL  187-9 
Mora  Li 

Mosquito  1 16-7,174-5 

Moss-growing  128-30 
Mother's  milk  212 
Moths  burning  1 74 
Mourning  23 1 
Moxa  153,224,256 

Muddy  marks=>  diacritical 
Mushin  211 
Mutterel  25S 
Mysogeny  166 

Name,  living  up  to  it  32-3, 
Name  pun  91 
Nanny  247 

National  Anthem  128-30 

Nativism  52,62 

New  Year  (surimono)  16,98, 

147-158, 

Nettle  269 

Nightingale  =>  Uguisu 
Nihonbashi?  246 

Noise  142. 
Noodles  177-9 
North  58 

Nose  (mining  it)  5L 
Nose  hair  88  179 
Nostalgia  247-8 
Nude  156,219 
Nursery  rhymes  54 

Occidentals  24 
Octopussy  174 
Odd  hairJH2 
OJD  222 

Ominaeashi  53,60,181 
Opening  of  Japan  118-19 
Orientals  22 


Orthography  &  punning  134- 
5,160,216,268,278 

Otafuku  22Q 

Palace  maids  1 00 
Palindrome  261 ,273 
Paper  42,127 
Paradise  37,38 

Paraverse,  paraversing  20,170, 
188,  203,  245,  257 

Paper  robes  1 1 3 

Parody  11,20,61-74,97-8,129- 
3JL  148-151,163,180,185,199 
of  proverb  62-3,162  &  waka  64. 
minimal  1 30.  allusive  variation 
1  73;  as  most  creative  238 

Patriotic  pride  110-14 
also=>  Nativism 
Peaceful  us  110-14 
Pectoral  wildfire  25 
Pestle  144 
Petit  mort  25 
Philosophy  =>  Dew, 

=>  square  vs.  round, 
Phonetic  Syllabry  16 
Pilgrim  2DS 
Pillow  82,257-8 
Pissed-off  144-5 
Pivot  word  16,18 
Pleasure  quarters  1 02-3 
Plotless  poems 

=>Japanese  style 
Plum  16fl 

Poems  the  author  would  not 
mind  help  with  2 
Poetic  license  2Q 
Poet  names  L6 

Poetry  influence  overall  23-34 
influence  on  elements  23-5,  30- 
1 ,33-4    appeasing  26-7,  people 
25,27,29,150,  gods  42-3, 

Poles  Slkl 

Population  control  33-4,41 ,48n 

Poverty  40,61-2,123-4,207,216, 
217,  266,270 

Princess  Sao  157,159 
pronunciation  15 

Punning  19,279-80  favorites  IS. 
121,220  worst  91,119  (in  Japa- 


nese 170;  dangers  of  26.  read- 
ing poems  (Japan  vs  West)  1 

Prosperity  107, 
Pure  Land  18 

Rain  =>  shigure 
Rationalism  29_ 
Reading  many  times  SI 
Rectangular  vs  round  203-4 
Red  faces  22 
Re-incarnation  251 
Relativity  22S 
Religion  35-39,  42-3,242 

Respondent  16 
Reversal  111-12. 

Rhyme  16, 138-9,  139-40,  of 
first  &  last  word  201 , 
in  Chinese-style  21  5-6,21  8 

Riddles  242-3 
Right  word/expression  46. 
Rites  95-6,157-8 
River  Styx  SI 

Saint  J_82 
Salem  140 
Sandals  37  100 
Satire  112 
Self-deprecatory  176 
Senryu  16  39  105 

seventeenth  century  11 
Sewing  1 57 

Sex  89,  95-106,  all-night  25. 
1 04,  with  own  sister  22,  vs. 
cats  22.  facetious  100,  courte- 
sans 101-3,106,  chastity  104 

Shaming  gods  33-4 
Shamisen/samisen  115 

Shigure  61-3  186,190 

Shinto  42-3 
Shogi 119 

Silverfish  137-9,145,  235 

Sister-lover  97-8 
Sixteenth  century  11 

Slobber  135,179 
Slobberal  roots  85 

Snail  545 


290 


snake-legs  2 
Snipe  61 
Snow  191-3 
Sparrow  259 

Spider  494  message  S1M& 

Spring  159-168 
Squibs  107-120 
Star  Festival  177-80 
Stilt  241 

stylistic  problem  of  this  book  2 
Suicide  242 
Summer  1 69-76 
Sunao  ni  3,110, 

Supernatural  55,  ~  creatures 
55-60,  2TL 

Surimono  10,16,98,105,114, 
157-8,280-1,283. 

Sushi  41 
Sweat  114 
Swellfish  151 
Syllabet  16 
Syllable  M 
Syntax  10,18 

Tanka  1 6,249-50,274 
Tanuki  257 

Tear  river  SI  =>  Love  /  water 
Tears  like  poles  80 

Tengu  1 64 

Tenmei  kyoka  1 1,16,84 

Tenmei  kyoshi  216 
Teren-teren  1 1  5 


Thin  man  49-50,  summer 

-thins  1& 

Things  59-60,  242 
Titmice  141-2,  257 
Thrush  =>  Uguisu 
Tissue  paper  1  84 
Toad  55 
Tobacco  1 52 
Tofu  49 

Tom  Swifty  137  159 
Tongue-twister  1 34 
Trash  42 

Transience  in  life  143,153 

Translation  courage  42,  loss  in 
3.18,38.107.169-70  gain  in  18^ 
83,263  as  recreation  5  mad  % 
20,100,102,108  definition  2 
composite  ~  10,63,78,120,139 
&  syntax  1 0,1 8  &  explanation 
or  explanatory  1 0,58  impossi- 
bility 18,19,  20-1,52,58,259-60 
271-2  &  flattened  fauna  21, 
dramaticised  6£ 

Trash  111 
Treasure  ship  1 35 


Vector  of  envy  1 1 1 
Vertical  line  42 
Visual  reading  16,152,241 
Volcano  109-10, 

Waka  12,16,18,52,75-94,190, 
252  &  efficacy  23,43 

Wetnurse  140-2,247 
Whale  116 

Wine  with  verity  237,  ~  making 
251 

Winter  191-200 
Woman's  sex  215-16, 

stink  96,97 
Women  in  kyoka  88-9,284 

Word  order  =>  syntax  & 
Japanese-style 

Yama  =>  Emma 
Yamato-gokoro  1 42-3 

Yard  L40_ 

Year-end  144,  194-8,268 


Ugly  220 
Uguisu  1 60-2 
Underarm  hair  50,225 

Unexpected  239 
Urashima  Taro  153-4 
Usania  24 
Ushin  211 


Yoshino  114 
Yoshiwara  1 02-3 

Zen  35,39,  220^22 


poet  index 


page  291 


Akara  =>  yomo  no  akara 
Akazome  Emon  cl086  142 

Akera  Kanko  d.  1 800  T^ilrX 
101, 182,  158 

AkitsunaHflM  83 

Anon  26,  26,  29,33,34,41,47, 
72,81,81,82,  82,  84,118,118, 
119,120,  125,  128.  132.  171, 
171,199,207,  207,236,242, 
242,  243  see=>mys 

Anrakuan  sakuden=>  sakuden 

Asahi  Bunzaemon  1674-1718 
Stiffi  "PIE  108,109,  109,  110, 
110,115,  LIA  116 

Asakusa  an  ^|£Ji&  157. 
Asakusa  kansoku?  ^^AIU  9J 

Bokutan  1735  ^W^AS  62 

Bokuyo  1607-1678  h# 
107,  107,  121,  121,187,205,205, 
206,206,  206,  207,52,53 

Boun  1785  StlffM  183-4 

Bunzaemon  =>  Asahi 

Bussai  17c  ffift  B 
205,205,206,206,207 

Chie  no  naishi  H'TgpW  155, 
188,  235,245 

Chikamasa  36,37,37 

Chikusai  1621-23  ftS  author- 
-ship  unsure  123,  203,  203,232 

Choshoshi;  Ls.  Kinoshita 
Katsutoshi  b.1569  ATJ3#ft  = 
MA  d.1649  133 


Choho  =>  Nagakata 
Chuko?  Nakayoshi?  1666 

Emp.  (retired  emps  included)  => 
Gosai,  Hanazono's,  Jito, 
Murakami,  Tenji,  Tenmu  etc. 

Enryu  71 

Fuseyajir6M3ft#:^  223 

Fushimatsu  no  kaka  fifi 

88,114 

Futome  1679  A  A  155 

GennaiiCrt  L9_9 

Getsudoken  ft  M If  3,86,86,87, 
89,91,95,95,95,96,108,123,158 
162,175,176,  179,180,200 

Gisai  1666  153 
Go  Ichijo    -  0k  AM  m  6  132 
Go-kyogoku  1 169-1206  ft  JfC 
flfSigicAA  84 
Gosai  1635-85  |£W±^  99 
Gubutsu  JS#  260 

Gyoson  (1055-1 135)  L5J 

Hakuin  S  IS  d.  1768  30 
Hakurikan-boun  Stllf^PS 
pl785  229 

Hamabe  no  kurohito  fitillfPIA 
=>  Kurohito 

Hanazono's  (Emp)  palace  woman 

MfeAgAAit  133 

Hannyabo  31 
Henjo  9c  'M  M  64,  L8J 


Hikaru  1785  UA^/A 
(Tsumuri  no  Hikaru?)  55,58 

Hiraga=>  Gennai 

Hisago  no  karazake  1785  lEcD/i^ 

hM  64 

Hitomaro  7c  ffi  A  A  A  72 
Horaikikyo  1785  £3&j§ffi  l&Z 
Hoseki  1679  A  BI  156 
Hoshiya  mitsuji  1785  illlAi^ 
169 

Hoyu  1666{*£  L49 

Ichu  (1638-1711)  If  ^  130 
Ikkyu  — #c  35,37,  32  153,230 

Imyo  1783  If  ^  55 

Ise  c.900  (Narihira) 

93,94,  97,97,98,163,180 

Issa    — ^  60,66,  66,67,  67,  68, 
76,  117,123,137,128,140,143,144, 
144,151,159-60,  192,194,195, 
197,  198,218,219,232, 

Ittetsu  — &  f£#Alti  21 1 

Jakuren   1139-1202/3  MMfeM 
54,82,172,173 


Jien  1155-1225  fffAfiiEBil 

85,148,186 

Jihinari    W 1 1  oddly  is 

not  here:  see  the  Monster.  1  think 
him  the  best  of  the  surimono  poets. 

Jikko  1791  f  P  227 

Jinkyu  17c^A?£W  47 

Jito  (Emp)  645-702  j^t^l  70 


Kabe  no  nakanuri  1785  Mf£i$ 
m  182,196 

Kanko  L96 

Karagoromo  =>  Kisshu 
KaseLdJ  859-2-2  ^jjg  224 
Ki  no  tsurayuki  =>  tsurayuki 

Ki-no-sadamaru  #5*1: If  ©fo 

216 

Kisenl313##t  113 
Kishijo  1785  #  LA9Q 
Kisshu  d.  1 802  if  AH  M  169,189 
Kita-in  d.1202  -&#P^AjI  112 
Kokinrokujo  (work)  45,45 
Koan  1666  tf^  1£22  1£22 
K6ch6pre-1672||{^iEA^  181 

Kofu  fl.  1666-78  tT®  245,  246 

K6k6-in  (ret.  emp)  A#P3i:  80 
K6k6tf£?  16 

Kotomichi  19c  A^AIf  51,52 

Kuretake  no  yotsuya  ttiftffe  44 
Kurohito  MAB  A  213 
Kusui^H  d.1763  IS 

Kyogetsu-bo  d.  1 328  95 
139,250,252,252 

Kyoriku-1715fpA  224 
Kyoshi  ^A  13J 
Ladylse  fl  930  ff-f^  =  A  90 
Ls  (lost  source)  L86 

Magaod.l829KM  152 
Manyoshu  (work)  so,  anon. 

=>  mys 

Masafusa  pl310  fif^lW 


130 

Meshimori  1752-1830  feMMfe 
23,  58,59,  67,  87,156,164 

Mibu-no-tadamine  AA/SA  69 
Michitake  d.  15 16  it  A 

mmnrnm  101 

Michizane  9c  IfliE  73 
Mitoku  1649  A#  65,148,186 
Mitsutaka?  82 


Mitsutoshipl310  JtiM 

AAA  148 
Moji  1642  7^^:  Ml 
Mojin         fm^Vft  253 
Mokuami  1785  h  t  <75A£H  114 
Momokoc.1730  A  A  22 
Monk  =>  Jakuren,  Jien,  Noin, 

Saigyo,  Tosui,  etc. 
Moto  no  mokuami  1785 

ht(Ds^m  154 
Motokata  c.905 

AJijCAA  112,147 

Motosuke  IfJJjl  Affi  210 
Muan  180 
Murakami  (emp.)  c  1005 

^mH#1183  209 
Musen  1636  MiSfi W  40 
Mutama  (zappai  work)  228 

mys  (anon)  50,  5_L,  76, 
128,201,201,202,202 

Nagakata  ft:  A(or  choho)?  83 
Nakamasapl310  Mf^E  110 
Nakamichicl800  ^j!  94 
Nakatsukasa  ^ilifi-A^ 

mmi&  AA  HI 

Nanshi  no  harutsugu  1799  j^J^K 
#A  157 
Narihira  154,166  &  =>  Ise 

ng  (not  given  by  only  accessible 
source)  56,  58,59,  164,202,202 

Nihonshoki  (c.720).  p27 
Nijo  nyobo?  1320-88  —  #=AM 

149 

Nise  fake  tales  9A  97 

Noin  d.1050?  114 
Norinaga  1730-1801  Ag^ft 

65 

Nyuan  1610  AA  53,172 

Oda  AHA  118  =>Shokusanjin 
Oe  no  Masahira  no  Ason  1086, 

(gsis  #1217),  141 
Okikaze  kks  #745  94 


One  futoki  Atl  AA  113 
onna  (woman)  7.04 
Ono  no  komachi  c.850 

ASAMA  91 
Ono  no-takamura  10c  211 
Ota?  pHhA  116,117 

=>  Shokusanjin 
Oya  urazumi  AsitjlfEt:  124 

Raizan  1716  226 
Rensho?  3SAA  L  AA^ft* 
111 

Rikkaen?  129 

Rizai  essays  c.1835? 

125,125 

"Rokube"  2118 

Ryoi  cl560  ^ATElDfi 

Ryojinhisho  (a  work)  112 

Ryokan  1758-1831  %.% 

49,49, 226 

Ryosoku?  rinsoku?  18c?  j&Ji 
158 

Ryuiin  1737  WH  214 

Saigyo  Al  190  M  ft  67,84,85, 
143,  163,165,165178,199,  204, 
247,248 

Sakazuki  no  komendo  MR  7^A 

1783?— MM  86 

Sakenoue  no  Furachi  M  AAK? 

114 

Sakuden  (Anrakuen  ~) 

Mfc  1623  1I8§^  119,  244. 

Sanekata  958-98  H  A  103,  1D4 

SanetakaHPl  1455-1537  28 
Sankoku  denki  (a  work,  not  a 

name)  c.1407-41  A@{5fB  12 
Sankyo?  A^  L5S 
Sansa  1558-1623  AHtt^# 

225 

Sanwa  1785  £AA  52 
Sarumaru  9c  ^ AAA  185 


Sengai  1750-1837  flilj 


Senryu  pre.  180 1)39 


38,  121 


Shigeyori  Ai1  1633  167 
Shiki  135 

Shikibu  d.l030i££|5  42,42,42, 
85,172 

"Shikibu' s  daughter"  212,  212 

Shocho?  Eft  kks  152 
Shoe  jESC  1679  3_8 

Shokusanjin  d.1823  M  Pi  A  (Also 
see  Yomo  no  Akara)  31,63,70,  70, 
72,  73,  100,  111,  112,117,  153, 
155,166,168,  177,  178,  179,  179, 
184,185,185,  191,194,  204, 
204,248,241,247,259 

Shunjo  1679  81 
Shunzei  1 1 14  -1204        85,  154 
Snailshine  $ijt  7S 
Sobo  p.  1666  225 

Socho  1524  tkS  150.170 

Sogi  1420-1502  tkW  167,167,269 

Soho  171 

Sokan  d.1540  lill^M  170, 

170,  223,243,270 
Sonosuke  757  5 

Sosei  c905  Hfefegij?  73,271 

Sosen1785%?H  ISO 
Soya/munenari  1666  tkHI  191 
Suigan  1824  HiW^SgH  114 
Suzunari  Wi$v&  220 

Tabito  251,251,251,252,252 


Tabunin  1534  0  f S  151 

Taisan?  1740llJAAlil  62 

Takuan  1573-1645  RM^Uft 
45,69,120 

tamochi  no  okimi  8c 
211 

TatsunomiME  1 84 

Tawara  machi  $J3^  2A^  249, 
249,250 

Tegara  no  okamochi  cl800  ^ffi 
IW230 

Teiga  1734^1$  214 
Teika  d.1241  61 
TeinSJ^^H  1679  36 

Teiryu  1654-1735  iff  igf=itW 
47,  62,  62,72,  174,175,178,234? 
235? 

Teitoku  1571-1653 

40,  104,  135,  159,  L7I 

Tenchi  genko  Aift^lt  92 
Tenji  7c  A^AM  70 
Tenmu  ASfcAU- r672-694  114 
TokimunelOc?^^®:  60 
Tokugen  1559-1647  $&jt  154,167 
Tomoyo  1678^^  111 

Tosaku  1726-89  Hezutsu- 
¥-&Mft  165,192 

Toshiyuki        t  L 1$  t  905 
T6suitt7KfPft  d.1683  35 


Tsurayuki  #2o       #  Ki  no  ~ 
75,  181.258 

Tsutsui  1788-1859  fJftMM 

107. 

Uguisu  no  suriel785  M  flltC 
Ufa  167 

Yamanaka  genzaemon  d.1645  [i| 

W^tSF!  22S 

Yamate  no  shirohito  1785  lil^F  S 
A  153 

Yanagidaru  167,  228,241 
Yokoi  yayu  Hl^  99 

Yomo  no  akara  23^7  5^^  (Also 
see  Shokusanjin)  32,  57, 
78,113,189,227,228,244 

Yonenari  $zf&  1820's98 
Yoshiol7c#lt  163 
Yoshitada  #f     A  A  85 
Yoshitoki  pl086  A?X  6e  #ff 

111 

Yuchoro  1547-1602  lift  =g 
41,43,44,61,  129,161,  184,197 

Yujo  hatamaki  1786  Mix 

Yuryaku  (r.  457-89)  21 
Yusai    pl623  M^'A  L3D 
Yuwa  iC^U  17c  MMMWtM  126 


The  740-page  Monster  gives  dates  for  most  poets.  This  book  tries  to  give  the  information  in  the 
text.  &,  to  tell  the  truth,  the  author,  who  must  do  all  of  the  indexing,  has  run  out  of  energy. 


$E  ft 

Poems  in  Chinese  are  Skipped  in  the  Poem  Index  that  Follows,  so: 

^*^pm?M215,  gt^^?ft  216,  &&&m&nttt  217,  218, 
mwrnym^m  219,  mm  220,  mum^  m  ^mmm^.  m±  222. 


page  224 


oem  index 


aji  araba  kenka  61 
ake  yukeba  moyuru  1 72 
aki  no  ta  no  kariho  ~  toma  ZO 
aki  no  ta  no  kariho  ~  utagaruta  ID 
aki  no  yo  no  chiyo  o  1  80 
aki  no  yo  no  tsuki  no  91 
ama  no  sumu  sato  93 
ama  no  to  o  waga  104 
amai  tsuyu  furuka  furuka  232 
amakaraba  sazo  61 
amanogawa  hagoromo  1 77 
amanokawa  nagarete  118 
amanoto  mo  shibashi  LQ3 
amaochi  no  ishi  no  128 
amari  ja  no  aki  no  89 
ame  furite  furidashitaru  55 
amida  wa  nami  no  soko  242 
ana  miniku  sakashiru  o  252 
ana  miniku  sake  ni  wa  252 
ana  unagi  izuku  IS 
andon  no  abura-name  59 
araoda  o  arasuki  kaeshi  256 
aratama  no  hatsumotoi  LSD 
ariake  no  tsurenaku  ienu  69 
ariake  no  tsurenaku  mo  mieshi  69 
asa-yu  ni  kamado-hanarenu  16 
ase  mizu  o  nagashite  1 1 4 
ashibiki  no  yamadori  ~  shidario  12 
ashibiki  no  yamadori  shitarigao  12 
ashibiki  no  yamaya  12 
atama  naki  bakemono  56 
atarashii  obire  no  tsuita  234 
atarashiki  inabe  no  takumi  21 
ato  made  mo  sode  no  233 
atsumetsuru  mado  no  hotaru  735 
au  made  no  katami  tote  94 
bo  hodo  na  namida  80 
chinmoku  no  nochi  no  250 
chiyo  o  hitoyo  yumiya  180 
dan-ochi  ya  shikamo  201 
dekoboko  to  iu  ji  muhitsu  241 
doko  de  toshi  totte  mo  219 
fukamidori  iwane  ga  ue  130 
fumi  shira  wa  mekura  mo  254 
fuminan  wa  oshiki  ni  192 
furu  yuki  o  sora  ni  tomete  45 


gantan  wa  meido  no  tabi  153 
go  nariseba  ko  tatete  mo  225 
go-muri  to  wa  kuchi  ni  2.06 
gokuraku  mo  jigoku  mo  38 
gokuraku  wa  jumanokudo  31 
gokuraku  ya  jigoku  ga  aru  36 
gozare  tote  susuki  no  ho  53 
gururi  to  ie  o  torimaku  121 
hachisu-ha  no  nigori  ni  64 
hai  ni  nam  na-nokori  mo  224 
hakanaku  mo  omoikeru  141 
hamaguri  ni  hashi  oshi  61 
hana  mo  ikuyo  haru  1 61 
hana  to  miba  sasuga  165 
hana  ya  chiruran  de  jochu  161 
hana  yori  mo  dango  no  1 19 
hanaguruma  ushi  no  161 
hanaiki  ni  tonde  wa  135 
hane  haete  zeni  ga  191 
hare  yaranu  43 
haru  kureba  sode  no  kori  151 
haru  kurete  nagaki  hi  52 
haru  o  matsu  mochi  o  158 
haru  sugite  natsu  10 
haru  tatsu  ya  nihon  1 54 
haru  wa  moe  aki  wa  210 
hatsu  koe  wa  senzuri  162 
hatsukusa  no  nado  91 
hazukashi  ya  fude  motsu  9 1 
hazukashi  ya  nado  91 
he  nari  to  mo  ada  naru  38 
hi  no  moto  no  aruji  LQ9 
hikoboshi  no  hiku  to  iu  1 79 
hikoboshi  no  kubeki  LIS 
hiku-ushi  no  hanage  1 19 
hiru  wa  naki  yoru  wa  258 
hito  kouru  koto  o  omoni  81 
hito  mo  minu  yado  ni  sakura  42 
hito  no  koi  ki  wa  itsu  nari  99 
hito  no  yuku  mae  wa  111 
hito  o  ami  e  ireta  yo  naru  1 14 
hito  wa  mina  oki-izuru  ill 
hitori  ne  no  kacho  no  90 
hitorine  no  toko  ni  tamareru  8 1 
hitoyo  neshi  imo  ga  katami  81 
hitoyo  o  ba  momoyo  to  1 80 


hokkuri  to  shinaba  waki  225 
hosoboso  to  naku  uguisu  pg#  lost 
hotaru  o  ba  atsumete  manabu  Hi 
hyotan  to  totemo  ukareba  86 
hoki  tatete  zori  e  kyu  o  153 
horai  ni  jofuku  to  mosu  135 
hoshira  no  hige  no  sorikui  201 
ichido  sae  yasetaru  tono  49 
igirisu  mo  furansu  mo  1 02 
ika  hodo  no  sentaku  nareba  10 
ikabakari  ebi  o  tori4cuu  45 

iku  chiri  no  yama  o  ikue.  132 
ikuru  koto  muzukashii  226 
ima  made  wa  heta  ga  224 
ima  sara  ni  kumo  no  1 89 
ima  sara  ni  nani  ga  194 
ima  wa  tote  namida  84 

imo  ga  na  wa  chiyo  ni  128 
imo  to  neba  iwato  no  LQ3 
inishie  no  midare  114 
inishie  no  nomori  no  kagami  1 12 
iro/na  o  mede  oreru  bakari  181 
irogonomi  appare  sonata  wa  21 1 
ishi  hakobi  nageki  koritsutsu  1 1 7 
ishinago  no  ochikuru  tama  no  143 
ishinago  no  tama  no  ochikuru  143 
issho  o  ayamaru  sake  no  toga  2.05 
itazura  ni  mi  o  takitsuru  113 
ito  susuki  tare  to  nete  sate  53 
itsu  mite  mo  sate  owakai  1 98 
itsushika  to  namida  no  kori  85 
itsuwari  no  aru  yo  narikeri  61 
itsuwari  no  naki  yo  narikeri  61 
itto  nomu  hito  dani  aru  o  205 
iwai:  to  o  akete  nuredomo  1 1 2 
iwama  yori  ouru  mirume  93 
iwato  yaburu  tajikara  231 
iza  kodomo  tawawaza  5 
izuku  ni  so  maso  horu  5 1 
izumoji  e  atsumari-tamau  62 
izure  make  izure  katsu  o  1 69 
jomo  ga  kaki  no  moto  30 
jfibun  no  ue  ni  ato  hiku  207 
jubun  no  ue  ni  mo  sake  wa  207 
jugoya  no  tsuki  no  katsura  253 
jusan  de  pakkari  h/wareshi  1 89 


ka  no  kobosu  namida  no  umi  125 
ka  wa  fuji  no  yama  hodo  125 
kadomatsu  wa  meido  no  tabi  1 53 
kaeru  kari  ni  chigau  kumoji  163 
kaikyu  matagarishi  uba  ga  247 
kakegoi  no  yoake  ni  omoki  1  56 
kaku  bakari  medetaku  111 
kakubakari  seki  wazurawaba  83 
kakureite  waga  ato  saranu  5 1 
kamigami  no  rusu  o  63 
kamigami  wa  izumo  no  207 
kaminazuki  amari  shigure  62 
kamisori  no  ha  yori  mo  123 
kamisuji  o  sen-suji  ni  125 
karakasa  no  abarabone  5_8 
karigamo  wa  ware  o  49 
karigane  no  momiji  ni  kake  164 
kashimashi  ya  kono  sato  1 70 
kasuga-no  wa  kyo  163 
kasuga-no  ya  tsuma  mo  98 
kata-fuchi  ni  mi  o  nagen  to  204 
katana  mote  nagaruru  mizu  45 
katsura-otoko  kumo  no  1_87 
kayuzue  ni  furimuku  imo  1  57 
kayuzue  ni  niguru  furi  1 58 
kayuzue  ya  yuzu  no  ka  L58 
kaze  koete  chiruzo  suzushiki  65 
kazu  naranu  namida  no  85 
keisei  ni  kurui-sugureba  LQ6 
kenkon  no  soto  yori  uchi  223 
kesa  no  yuki  ni  waga  ato  191 
kesa  taruru  tsurara  ya  135 
keshi  tsubu  no  naka  kuriagete  125 
ki  konyoku  wakashu-gurui  86 
kibasami  o  hototogisu  169 
kiku  tabi  ni  mune  warokereba  1 70 
kimi  ga  kao  chiyo  ni  hito-tabi  129 
kimi  ga  senu  waga  tamakura  82 
kimi  ga  yo  wa  ~  musu  mame  130 
kimi  ga  yo  wa  ~  musu  made  130 
kimi  kouru  namida  shi  25 
kimi  nakute  hitori  nuru  84 
kimigayo  wa  chiyo  ni  hitotabi  131 
kimigayo  wa  hikari  tsukisenu  133 
kingin  o  tsukai-sutetaru  uma  119 
kintama  no  sadamari  kanete  108 
kino  made  maruhadaka  naru  156 
kodomo  o  ba  sushi  ni  sum  41 
ko  no  ma  yori  miyuru  wa  tani  173 
kokoro  kara  hana  no  shizuku  905 
kokoro  ni  wa  tare  mo  omoedo  L68 
kokoronaki  mi  ni  mo  aware  67 
kono  ie  wa  tatoe  no  fuji  no  124 


kono  koro  no  waga  koi-  202 
kono  koro  no  waga  koi-  202 
kono  tabi  wa  nusa  mo  73 
kono  uta  no  kokoro  o  ika  ni  3 
kono  yo  ni  shi  tanoshiku  253 
kono  yo  nite  jihi  mo  akuji  35 
kore  hodo  wa  uchitaekeru  ni  202 
kore  o  hito  no  kokoro  to  204 
koyoi  kono  tsuki  wa  sekai  1 81 
kubi  bakari  idasu  onna  no  52 
kueba  heru  nemureba  samuru  229 
kuge  wa  yake  buke  wa  109 
kuitaranu  uwasa  mo  kikazu  xxx 
kure  yuku  to  ieba  doyara  167 
kurehatenu  toshi  no  owari  148 
kurogami  mo  itsu  ka  somen  118 
kurukurushiku  mo  okashikari  243 
kyo  sake  ni  kiku  mo  hitasanu  1 84 
kyoshitsu  ni  sore-zore  no  249 
kyujuku  de  shinde  ichi-nen  228 
kyujuku  de  shinuru  inochi  228 
kogen  wa  yamadori  no  ya  72 
magarite  mo  shakushi  wa  112 
maku  mame  o  iwai  osamete  95 
manaita  no  tsura  yaseshitaru  91 
maotoko  ga  kubeki  yoi  tote  81 
marukareya  tada  marukareya  203 
maruku  to  mo  hito-kado  are  204 
maruku  to  mo  hitokado  areya  203 
mata  hitotsu  toshi  wa  yoru  1  54 
mata  kujira  .  .  .  1  1 6 
mata  to  yo  ni  aru  mono  de  121 
matsu  hito  ni  hitoharu  make  1_61 
me  ni  mienu  oni  kami  o  dani  28 
me  no  mae  ni  futatsu  no  sugata  58 
me  wa  kagami  kuchi  wa  tarai  59 
meoto  naka  ni  tada  futatsu  1 84 
meshi  wa  mina  kuitsukushitaru  64 
mi  hitotsu  wa  yama  no  oku  ni  244 
mi  o  sutete  shokoku  o  meguru  2.04 
michizane  kono  tabi  wa  nusa  73 
migoto  nite  te  ni  wa  torarezu  65 
minabito  no  moshi  seibutsu  36 
minaregawa  watasu  o  fune  83 
misogi  shite  soko  de  kino  95 
miwataseba  ya-nami  surari  108 
miwa-yama  o  shikamo  kakusu  26 
mono  iwanu  osana-kuchi  o  1 40 
mono  omoeba  sawa  no  hotaru  172 
mono-omou  namida  ya  yagate  84 
moto  yori  mo  chiri  ni  majiwaru  43 
moto  yori  mo  chiri  ni  majiwaru  44 
mumaso  na  yuki  ga  fuuwari  1 92 


munen  nagara  mo  ureshikari  243 
musashi/kasuga-no  wa  kyo  98 
musashi-no  wa  kyo  163 
musashino  ni  habakaru  123 
musashino  ya  inu  no  koka  123 
muzukashiku  nejikaeritaru  206 
mode  suru  michi  nite  awa  101 
nagaiki  o  sureba  kurushiki  113 
nakanaka  ni  hito  to  arazu  25 1 
nakanaka  ni  nani  ka?ga?  16 
naki  kaeru  kari  no  namida  85 
nakitsumeshi  fuyu  no  namida  82 
naku  namida  ame  to  furanan  23 1 
naku  shika  no  koe  kiku  tabi  185 
namayoi  no  reisha  o  mireba  155 
namida  ni  zo  nuretsutsu  94 
namida  no  mi  uki-izuru  80 
namidagawa  mi  mo  ukinu  82 
nanigoto  mo  mina  itsuwari  230 
natsumushi  wa  urayamashiku  174 
natsuyase  to  hito  ni  wa  78 
negawakuba  waga  ato  no  36 
neko  mo  tsuma  moshi  koi-  99 
nenbutsu  o  shiite  mosu  mo  35 
nezame  ni  mo  omoidashite  38 
nippon  ni  toshi  o  torn  218 
noki  chikaki  tonari  ni  dani  40 
noki  ni  kite  naku  115 
nubatama  no  kai  no  kurokoma  21 
nyobo  ga  tsuno  dashi  toto  55 
nyoin  no  gozen  no  hiroku  139 
ogiku  o  mezuru  kyoka  wa  1 84 
ogura  yama  mine  tachinarashi  L81 
oi  no  atama  nadete  shikiri  248 
oinu  to  mo  (redo)  mata  mo  1 94 
6ji  uba  soji  hiuba  hioji  41 
okata  wa  tsuki  o  mo  medeji  1 54 
okuyama  ni  eda  oru  eda-ori  33 
okuyama  ni  momiji  fumi  L85 
okuyama  ni  momijimi  no  1_86 
okuyama  no  momiji  to  mite  L85 
omatsuri  wa  medetai  118 
ominaeshi  motto  kunereyo  60 
oni  koyoi  hana  o  fusagite  96 
oni  naranu  kami  no  63764?  xxx 
oni  wa  uchi  fuku  o  ba  191 
oshaka-sama  umare-  39 
oshiroi  no  kanban  to  suru  241 
pokkuri  to  shinaba  waki  225 
raizan  wa  umareta  toga  226 
rokudenaki  hito  to  .  .  206 
sa  mo  araba  are  yamato  1 42 
sabishisa  no  tane  to  wa  L80 


sageobi  o  miru  ni  tsukete  220 
sakasama  ni  koi  mo  nam  171 
sake  no  na  o  hijiri  to  251 
sake  wa  nomu  bakuchi  wa  207 
samuki  yo  wa  ikanaru  uta  LSI 
san  suji  made  yama  no  hitai  L52 
sansan-no-ku-do  no  katame  205 
sanshun  no  yaku  ya  162 
sanzan  ni  geko  o  shikareru  2£L5 
sao-hime  no  suso  fuki  17c 
saohime  no  koromo  no  LSI 
saritote  wa  kyo  mata  shichi  250 
sato  no  ko  ni  oikakerarete  1 82 
sato  yori  amamitsu  kami  245 
sayo  fukete  ima  wa  nebutaki  209 
sayuru  yo  ni  otsureba  koru  85 
sazare-ishi  no  iwa  to  nareru  122 
sazare-ishi  no  iwao  to  narite  7.00 
sen  kin  no  nadataki  tsuki  32 
sennin  mo  tengu  mo  kumo  164 
shaka-sama  ni  migushi  wa  1 07 
shakabutsu  no  mikushi  wa  L21 
shakkin  mo  ima  wa  tsutsumu  196 
shakkin  mo  yamai  mo  40 
shakkin  no  fuchi  ni  onore  1 44 
shakkin  wa  kubi  dake  1 96 
shibaraku  mo  yotoko  LQl 
shijukara  wa  oi  no  naka  ni  208 
shikai  nami  medetai  nado  to  206 
shikarubeki  sono  hitogara  206 
shime-kukuri  yoku  osamareru  1 14 
shinde  kara  hotoke  ni  naru  27 
shinde  kara  hotoke  to  iu  mo  22 
shinimasu  to  iute  yosugara  95 
shirakawa  no  kiyoki  ni  uo  1 1 8 
shirami  hodo  yo  o  hetsurawa  45 
shiratsuya  no  teren  itsuwari  66 
shiratsuyu  ni  aji  no  naki  koso  66 
shim  hito  ni  hikerakashite  mo  242 
shim  shiranu  hito  o  kyoka  ni  2.34 
shirushi-naki  mono  o  2.51 
shita  tsuzumi  utsu  hodo  tanto  2 1 
shojiki  no  atama  mo  itashi  62 
shomotsu  mo  nokorazu  bo  ni  127 
soko  to  ware  mako  ka  .  .  2.35 
sono  hito  no  shirushi  no  226 
su  o  ba  ato  ni  nokoshi  idetaru  161 
sugu  naru  wa  makkiri-taosu  222 
sukashi-he  no  kie-yasuki  216 
sunao  naru  miyo  no  shirushi  LLQ 
sum  nara  oki  na  koto  shiyare  139 
susu  hokori  haka  de  kono  yo  195 
susuhaki  no  uchi  yori  ham  195 


sutehatete  mi  wa  naki  mono  1 99 
suterarenu  shudo  nyodo  o  8 1 
suzume-dono  no  oyado  2.59 
sokan  wa  doko  e  to  hito  222 
tabako  nomu  uchi  yori  1 52? 
tachi  wa  saya  ni  osameru  112 
tachimagau  mine  no  kumo  165 
taihei  no  nemuri  o  samasu  118 
taiko  no  moto  wa  kikedo  120 
takeuma  o  tsue  ni  mo  2.47 
takuri-hokuri  wa  kite  zato  126 
tama  no  o  mo  uma  no  o  ni  220 
tamakushige  futatsu  no  sugata  58 
tamuke  ni  wa  tsuzuri  no  sode  72 
tanabata  mo  susurite  wa  179 
tanabata  o  omoeba  toki  1 71 
tanomu  beki  yukue  to  miru  L72 
tanpopo  o  to  tantan  to  wa  202 
te  ni  toreba  hito  o  sasu  to  182 
tenka  torn  koto  wa  kirai  116 
tenki  yoho  kikinogashitaru  249 
teratera  to  tsuki  no  katsurao  188 
toshi-doshi  ni  akuma  gaido  22 
toshi  hetaru  iwao  ga  ue  ni  1 10 
toshi  koete  hana  no  kagami  149 
toshinouchi  ni  ham  wa  kinikeri 
hitotose  o  147 

toshinouchi  ni  ham  wa  kinikeri 
iranu  sewa  151 

toshinouchi  ni  mochi  wa  tsuki  149 
toshinouchi  no  haru  ni  muma  148 
totemo  naraba  shiwasu  167 
tsuki  no  uchi  ni  katsura  90 
tsukuzuku  to  shigi  ware  o  68 
tsura  akami  kusage  ni  miyuru  97 
tsuru  kyuhyaku-kyujukyu  228 
tsuru  mo  iya  kame  mo  iya  227 
tsuyu  bakari  okuramu  sode  82 
toji-naru  urizanegao  no  kimi  92 
torimasu  to  iwato  no  seki  no  155 
ue  kara  wa  meiji  da  nado  to  120 
ue  yori  wa  sunao  ni  nare  to  1 10 
uguisu  no  hakaze  ya  hana  161 
ukauka  to  nagaki  yosugara  88 
umaihi  o  mizu  ni  kaminashi  2.55 
ume  ga  ka  ni  onara  no  nioi  1 59-60 
ume  ga  ko  o  sakura  no  hana  60 
urawaka  mi  neyoge  ni  miyuru  97 
ushi  no  ko  ni  fumaru  na  54 
uta-yomi  wa  heta  koso  yokere  22 
utsu  mono  mo  utarum  mono  101 
utsukushiki  hana  no  shitaba  52 
utsukushiki  wakashu  kabuki  246 


utsumono  mo  utaruru  mono  1 00 
waga  an  wa  nebutai  toki  ni  46 
waga  kimi  wa  chiyo  ni  128 
waga  koi  wa  fukakusa  naranu  29 
waga  mono  to  hoshisa  269 
waga  mune  wa  kyo  wa  na  162 
waga  omou  hito  eda  ta-om  92 
waga  yado  no  kaki  no  2 1 
wagimoko  ga  kozarashi  yoi  257 
wakashu  o  omohi  no  tama  122 
wan  to  ie  198    ©wan  wan  260 
wanzakure  funbaru  beika  228 
waraigusa  nokosan  yori  227 
warawa  domo  kusa  na  kari  50 
ware  mo  sazo  niwa  no  isago  248 
ware  mo  seji  rusu  no  aida  o  104 
ware  to  iu  sanbyakurokujugo  249 
ware  wa  mo  ya  yasumiko  26 
waregachi  ni  arasoute  kuu  192 
ware  yori  mo  seitaka  wakashu  2.67 
wasurareshi  otoko-hideri  86 
watatsumi  no  kame  no  senaka  122 
ya  yo  shigure  ame  1 86 
ya  yo  shigure  mono  omou  1 86 
yama  de  hosu  sasuga  jotei  21 
yama  no  ha  ni  hana  j  a  kumo  165 
yamabuki  no  hana-iro-  271 
yamazato  ni  shirigomi  shi-  2.44 
yamazato  wa  nenu  to  iedomo  212 
yamazato  wa  nerarezarikeri  212 
yamazumi  wa  he  o  him  2.45 
yo  ni  sumaba  te  o  suri  ashi  144 
yo  no  naka  ni  taete  sakura  166 
yo  no  naka  ni  taete  onna  166 
yo  no  naka  no  chiri  shi  122 
yo  no  naka  wa  mina  shamisen  115 
yoki  hito  no  yoshi  to  yoku  1 34 
yomu  uta  o  kiku  hito  goto  ni  1 76 
yononaka  ni  ka  hodo  urasaki  1 1 6 
yononaka  wa  ika  ni  kurushi  1 1 2 
yononaka  wa  iro  to  sake  265 
yononaka  wa  kari  ~  mo  yoshi  47 
yononaka  wa  kari  ~  naredo  47 
yom  goto  ni  shikibu  ga  soso  42 
yom  naku  wa  mezurashi-  1 83-4 
yoshi  hito  wa  inu  to  iu  to  191 
yoshi  kumore  kumoreba  22 
yoshi  saraba  namida  no  ike  85 
yuki  furite  secchin  toku  geta  192 
yuki  no  uchi  ni  haru  wa  148 
yuku  hito  o  shine  to  57 
yuku  toshi  wa  doko  de  194,  198 
yutakanam  miyo  no  megumi  114 


pg297 

Reviews  &  Supplemental  Information  about  books  in  English  by  Robin  D.  Gill 

Rise,  Ye  Sea  Slugs!  ( 1 ,000  kit  re.  sea  cucumbers  compiled  &  transl.  from  Japanese),  paraverse  2003,  pp  480. 

"I  wondered,  can  one  really  devote  480  pages  to  haiku  on  sea  slugs?  The  answer  is  emphatically  'yes.' 
Although  difficult  to  read  from  beginning  to  end,  this  book  contains  great  learning  and  insight,  and 
deserves  a  wide  reading  among  specialists  and  non-specialists  alike." 

"For  many  of  the  haiku,  Gill  gives  multiple  translations  as  a  way  of  showing  possible  interpretations.  I 
know  of  no  other  book  of  English  translations  of  haiku  that  goes  to  such  lengths  to  explain  translations, 
which  in  Gill's  hands  are  accurate,  economical,  and  often  elegant." 

"For  all  the  eccentricities  one  might  expect  (and  does  find)  in  a  book  devoted  entirely  to  Japanese  haiku  on 
the  sea  slug,  the  author  is  an  accomplished  haiku  writer,  a  very  talented  and  engaging  critic,  capable  of 
reading  with  an  acute  understanding  of  culture  and  cultural  differences." 

-Thomas  H.  Rohlich,  Professor  of  Japanese  Language  and  Literature  at  Smith  College,  from  Metamorphoses: 

the  journal  of  the  five  college  faculty  seminar  on  literary  translation  (Vol.  13.1,  Spring  2005). 

"This  single-topic  tome  may  be  our  best  English-language  window  yet  into  the  labyrinth  of  Japanese  haikai 
culture.  If  you  have  read  Yasuda,  Blyth,  Henderson,  Ueda,  and  Shirane,  then  read  Gill.  He  will  expand 
your  mind.  If  you  have  not  read  those  guys  yet,  then  read  Gill  first.  He's  more  fun." 

-  William  J.  Higginson,  author  of  Haiku  World,  in  Modern  Haiku  (volume  35.1  winter-spring  2004). 


P  The  haiku  are  from  the  early-Edo  period  to  the  present.  The  apparently  featureless  sea  cucumber 
(namako)  offered  a  unique  opportunity  for  poets  to  treat  what  amounts  to  a  ding  en  sich,  and  the  results 
were  poems  pushing  the  limits  of  natural  observation  on  the  one  hand  and  metaphysics  on  the  other.  Some 
of  the  latter  bear  resemblence  to  kyoka  in  their  logic-born  dry  wit,  and  are  what  I  call  'kyoku '  in  this  book. 


©  ©  ©  ©  © 

Re:  Fly-kul  (Translations  of  fly  &  fly-swatting  ku,  +  an  in-depth  study  of  Issa's  famous  fly-ku,"Don't  swat!")  2005 

"An  American  scholar  and  poet  who  writes  in  an  extemporaneous  style  akin  to  that  of  Jack  Kerouac;  thinks 
like  Herman  Hesse,  Koyabashi  Issa,  and  Lewis  Carroll,  all  rolled  into  one." 

-  Robert  D.  Wilson,  founder  of  the  on-line  magazine  Simply  Haiku  (2005-summer).  Also  author  of  Jack-fruit. 

"Gill  strikes  us  as  no  less  than  amazing.  Why  isn't  he  teaching  at  Yale,  or  the  University  of  California,  or 
Tokyo  University?  His  references  include  no  end  of  obscure  Japanese  lore,  plus  quotes  and  notes  from  such 
artists  as  Clare,  Lovelace,  Steinbeck,  Dumont,  Verdi,  Satie,  Blyth,  Shakespeare,  Emily  Dickinson." 

-  Carlos  Amantea,  author  of  The  Blob  That  Ate  Oaxaca  R.A.L.P.H.  (Review  of  Art,  Literature,  Philosophy  &  History) 


Not  as  much  natural  history  in  this  wee  bk.  as  in  Rise,  Ye  Sea  Slugs!,  but  a  good  discussion  of  the 
supposed  anthropomorphic  fallacy  &  a  comparison  of  translations  of  "Don't  swat/hit/kill"  the  fly  that 
gives  great  detail  on  what  makes  "precise"  translation  between  exotic  tongues  impossible.  If  you  want 
more  on  just  that  problem,  with  especial  attention  to  word-order  vs  flow  please  read  the  yet-unreviewed 
Orientalism  &  Occidentalism  -  Is  the  mistranslation  of  culture  inevitable?  (paraverse  press  2004);  and  see 
my  newest  book  which  shall  be  published  soon  after  this  one,  A  Dolphin  In  the  Woods  -  paraversing, 
distillation  &  composite  translation.  Besides  giving  examples  of  poems  with  two  to  a  score  of  translations, 
it  gives  chapters  to  books  including  Nineteen  Ways  of  Looking  at  Wang  Wei  and  he  Ton  beau  de  Marot. 


Re:  Cherry  Blossom  Epiphany  (Three  thousand  ku+ka  on  blossom-viewing,  including  many  by  Sogi)  2007,  pp.740 

"It  was  bad  old  Ezra  Pound,  acknowledging  his  heavy  debt  to  haiku  in  translation,  who  affirmed  that  the 
first  rule  of  poetry  was  "Make  it  new."  This  is  something  Gill  has  done  more  effectively,  as  far  as  remaking 
haiku  in  English  goes,  than  anyone  else  around.  .  .  . 

"One  of  my  favorites  is  on  p.  375,  where  no  less  than  seven  translations  are  proposed,  but  four  of  them 
"sous  rature,"  or  _misekechi_  ['erasures  shown,'  literally]:  in  old  Japanese,  words  crossed  out  in  a 
manuscript  but  left  legible  enough  that  the  reader  can  see  what  was  discarded,  and  imagine  why. 
(Publishers  with  accountants  are  not  likely  to  tolerate  this  kind  of  haikaiesque  mischief.  Gill  gets  away 
with  it  only  because  he  is  his  own  publisher.)  And  (another  reason,  if  needed)  in  his  commentary  Gill 
distances  himself  from  the  conventions  of  pedantry  just  as  effectively  as  the  haikai  poets  he  translates 
departed  from  the  venerable  (and  staid  and  eventually  stuffy)  traditions  of  classical  linked  verse  to  make 
something  new." 

—  Lewis  Cook,  professor  of  Japanese  literature,  CUNY  (in  a  blog  at  one  of  Gabi  Greve's  fine  haiku  kigo 

and  Buddhism-related  sites,  in  response  to  another's  questions  about  my  work. 


"This  book  is  exceedingly  delightful  -  what  word  could  be  more  accurate  I  cannot  say!  Here  is  a  guide  to 
allow  every  reader  to  play  with  their  own  translations  of  these  poems  -  indeed  all  the  important  ingredients 
-  are  amply  included:  .  .  .  nothing  in  this  book  is  cut  in  stone  -  it  is  pure  water,  ever-flowing  -  and  that  is 
what  is  so  inspiring  about  it,  its  generosity  and  delightful  creativity!"  -  s.w.  at  mountainandrivers.org 


P  Professor  Cook  has  a  broader  perspective  and  more  discriminating  vocabulary  to  bring  to  bear  upon 
what  I  am  doing  than  I  have  or  ever  hope  to  have.  Perhaps  this  book  is,  in  both  senses  of  the  word,  fresher 
yet,  though  I  am  well  aware  that  Harold  Stewart  did  intelligent  and  often  stylistically  pleasing  rhymed 
couplet  translations  of  haiku  a  half-century  ago  and  some  translators  of  comic  tales  have  rhymed  poems  of 
kyoka  length  (or  the  thing  itself)  they  correctly  recognized  were  meant  to  add  a  witty  and  comic  touch  to 
the  narrative  To  my  mind,  the  one  thing  that  no  reviewer  nor  anyone  that  I  know  of  (formally  or 
informally)  has  attempted  to  evaluate  is  the  success/failure  of  the  ways  in  which  I  chapter,  i.e.  divide  the 
poems  into  sub-themes,  something  different  for  Sea  Slugs,  Flies,  Cherry  Blossoms  and  the  New  Year  (The 
Fifth  Season,  below).  I  write  this  partly  because  the  presentation  of  hyper-short  poetry  depends  on  context 
and  because  I  am  afraid  the  horrible  arrangement  of  Mad  In  Translation  may  be  noted  somewhere. 


©  ©  ©  ©  © 

Re:  The  Fifth  Season  (2000 /h<  on  20  New  Year  themes  &  first  book  often  in  the  IPOOH  series  2007,  pp.500) 

No  reviews  interesting  enough  to  quote,  so  let  me  explain.  Excluding  books  on  surimono,  beautiful  color-prints 
accompanied  by  kyoka,  published  by  presses  or  lines  of  books  dedicated  to  art  rather  than  literature,  the  New 
Year,  once  the  Original,  or  First  Season,  of  the  five  seasons  of  haiku,  has  been  neglected  in  favor  of  the  other 
four  by  Occidental  translators.  The  Fifth  Season  finally  gives  this  supernatural  or  cosmological  season  -  one 
that  combines  aspects  of  the  Solstice,  Christmas,  New  Year's,  Easter,  July  4lh  and  the  Once  Upon  a  Time  of 
Fairy  Tales  -  its  due.  This  book  brings  the  Moon  back  into  the  calendar  and  humans  back  into  haiku.  On  the 
whole,  New  Year  haiku  in  Japanese  tend  to  share  more  with  'mad  poems'  than  those  of  any  other  season.  That 
may  be  why  they  were  short-changed  in  translation  (even  by  Blyth).  And  it  may  also  be  why  readers  of  Mad  In 
Translation  may  appreciate  this  book  that  has  sold  only  a  dozen  or  two  copies  since  being  published  {In  Praise 
of  OldHailku  saijiki  project  has  been  suspended  -  not  cancelled  -  until  my  S.S.  Readership  comes  into  sight)! 


♦     Other  Books  by  Robin  D.  Gill  XU,  ft^L0Onk"y-  3r/KZ>ft  ♦ 

See  the  author's  Biblio  heading  for  Topsy-Turvy  1585  (Luis  Frois  re.  611  ways  Europeans  &  Japanese  are 
contrary),  a  book  often  cited  in  this  one  &  my  dirty  senryu  book  of  two  titles.  Please  the  Paraverse  Press 
website  for  information  on  The  Cat  Who  Thought  Too  Much,  A  Dolphin  In  the  Woods  and  other  books  to 
come,  health  and  wealth  willing,  as  well  as  summaries  and  reviews  of  his  published  books  in  Japanese. 


kono  uta  no  kokoro  o  ika  ni  gaten  ja  ka 

it  R  <D  >b  £r  V^^c  ft  X  h  C  ^  d> 

iwazH  /o  iflfa  wo  /or/  mono-me  wa 

v^i-f  fctfsfc  fcSr?) 

Kuroda  Getsuddken 

m  m  h  m  & 

So  tell  me  just  what  this  poem  means, 
You  who  say  a  work  speaks  for  itself! 

There  is  a  school  of  thought  that  holds  poetry  to  be  above  explanation 
and  feels  the  proper  thing  to  do  is  simply  read  what  is  on  the  page.  This 
opinion,  or  prejudice  against  explanation  is  found  in  English  and  in 
Japanese.  We  tend  to  think  of  poetry  as  a  sort  of  art  or  mystery  apt  to  be 
ruined  by  clarification  while  Japanese  are  more  likely  to  feel  respect  to 
the  original  demands  it  be  read  sunao  ni,  or  meekly,  taking  it  as-is, 
without  putting  your  self  into  it. 

Yet,  Japanese  kyoka  poets  often  prefaced  their  poems  as  such 
explanation  was  needed  for  others  to  make  out  the  meaning  of  the  short 
poem.  To  my  mind,  it  does  not  hurt  them  at  all  and  proves  explanation 
and  poetry  are  not  mutually  exclusive  but  may  be  complementary. 
Considering  our  different  life  experiences,  cultural  background  and 
linguistic  skills,  one  wonders  if  anyone  but  the  poet  can  read  any  poem 
"as  (it)  is."  Add  an  exotic  foreign  language  and  there  is  no  room  for 
even  a  rhetorical  question.  It  is  usually  impossible. 

Lack  of  explanation  and  unacceptable  loss  in  translation  may  be  related. 
Write  a  patent  and  you  learn  that  numerous  discoveries  are  made  while 
elaborating  one 's  invention.  Explaining  a  poem  while,  or  in  addition  to 
translating  it  jars  loose  hitherto  submerged  wit  to  float  up  from  between 
the  old  lines  to  the  eyes  of  one  ready  to  recognize  and  try  to  recover  it. 
There  is  no  small  irony  here,  for,  if  your  translator  is  correct,  there  are 
circumstances  where  explanation,  far  from  killing  wit,  saves  it. 

Late- 17c  kyoka  master  Getsudoken's  meta-poem,  or  poem  about  poetry, 
is  delightful  for  being  rude  as  hell  -  the  me  in  mono-me  is  derogatory  - 
in  a  culture  that  was  notably  civil,  though  if  we  read  the  Japanese  as 
saku  mo  tori  mo  nomeba,  another  reading  is  possible: 

How  can  you  tell  just  what  this  poem  means? 
Stay  mum  &  swallow  the  whole  hill  of  beans! 

While  playing  upon  an  ancient  Chinese  Shijing  poem  about  how 
flowering  trees  -  not  toori  but  touri,  a  pun  guessable  because  of 
the  phrase  "without  saying  a  word"  (including  iwazu  in  Japanese)  - 
open  up  pathways  for  spring  by  attracting  visitors  with  their  beauty.  He 
also  may  intend  a  pun  on  as  sake  (possible  but  not  probable);  so,  if 
we  imagine  the  petals  of  the  peach  and  plum  falling  in  it: 

If  you  this  poem  would  hope  to  crack, 
Drink  sake  w/ plum  bloom  and  lie  back! 

This  was  the  frontispiece  but,  fearing  my  inability  to  arrive  at  a  final 
solution  might  scare  off  readers,  I  moved  it  to  the  back  of  the  book. 


